ofli fifattfbirPt
t
A tf.LISI.tP ■»«»..»» A»U ,„„. AMlraiA .
[No. 106 of Vol. IV.]
Foreign Intelligence.
M O N S, April 5.
( Ext rati of a privatt letter.)
«< H£ right Column of 1 hePrince
X Cobourg's army is marching
towards Valenciennes. At the mo
ment I am writing it is believed
that that town is in polietiion of the
Aultrians. It is reported that the
Inhabitants of Maubege have sent
to inform General Ciairfayt, that
they are willing to open their gates
upon condition that the General
will guarantee the i'ecurity of pro
perty."
BRUSSELS, April 5.
" Lille has opened its gates to
the Auilrians. We cxpetft that Con
de, Douay, Valenciennes, and Mau
bege, will do the fame."
LIEGE, April 2
" The Prince de Hohenloe is at
Namur, where he allembles the hea
vy artillery, corps of engineers, &c.
He is to command at the sieges
which are soon expeifted to be made,
of some of the ilrong towns on the
French Frontiers. It ii thought
Maubeiige or Gavet will be the iirlt
attacked. He has five other Gene
rals under him.—General Beauiieu
is with a small army oppofue Long
•wy."
ANTWERP, April 8.
French garrison that were
ftrßreda, have made a requisition
<0 be allowed a strong escort,' left
(hey iliould he murdeied by the
Brabauters, who are highly' iiicen -
fed sk the French." '
-■V nmnbt-r of fiiigii.lt tHjopS do
duty at Offend. The Aufttiaiis
from that place, are to take
poflefllon of the French camp ac
(yeuport and Farmeries.
LIVERPOOL, March 30
Some people lhake their heads
and leem forrowful when they heai
ot large funis of money having beer
sent to thc good patriots of France,
to enable them to carry on the war
againll this country with t he greater
energy and effcift ; hue what is it
the true lons of liberty will not at
tempc in support of their darling
caul's ! Ihe Englishman who would
not betray his country, rob his cre
ditors and reduce his family to beg
gary and ruin, in fopport of liberty,
is not worthy the name of a modern
patriot.
A gentleman of veracity in War
rington informs us, that a nephew
of his rode a galloway from that
town to Settle, in Yorkshire, which
is 70 miles, in one day, and back
again the next: Af;er which bis
nephew and the galloway were
weighed, when the former proved
the heavier by 1 5 lb.
Mr. Fox said in the House of Com ■
nions the o'her d;iy, that nothing
*aS more unpopular and opposite to
the deities of the people of England,
than Sir John Scott's bill for pre
venting traiteious correspondence ;
hut Mr. Fox surely forgot himfelf ;
his conduct at this particular crisis,
is'infinitely more unpopular, and
opposite to the deflres of the people.
DUBLIN, April 4.
The Cotntnifliontfr* of the Irifli
Pr ivy Co u nci l,ap pointed to go toLon
don, to afiill in the Britilh Cabinet,
at the difcuflion of a great me.ifure
refpetJtiog this kingdom, are now
ton their way to the Englifti metro
polis. The objetft of this great cen
iultation, is by a number of people
here fuppoled to be the mode,of ef
fecting a union of the Britilh and
Irish legislatures.
_It was apprehended lor some
time, that the Guilds of this city
Wednesday, Junk 5. 1 793-
would have been so much under the
influence of old piejudnes, us to
throw diflicultics in the way of Ch- ;
tholks seeking adr.iiliiou into their
respective bodies, which would ef
fect ualJy exclude them. We are
happy to learn, however, chat ma-,
ny ot thole guilds are much mure
liberal in their feiuiments, and in
tend to admit Catholics to their free
dom, on pearly the fame terms as
Pi ot« (ianis.
Hart of the exquifiie furniture be
longing to the late King of France,
froin the Palace of Sc. Cloud, iscon
figned to the European Museum.
FROM THE MORXING CfiRONU lb.
L ONDO N, April 9.
From ps Maich to the
third, ii>ft.,/Karis appears to have
been reirtaT'kably quiet, conlideriug
that difatlerons news had been dai
ly pouring in rVorti every quarter.
The Council General of the Com
niiine has been vigilant ; and San
terre, the Commandant General, ac
tive in the discharge of his own du- 1
ty, and ftric'i in compelling those
whom he commands to perform
theirs. The Decree for difqnniiig
all fufpetfied pei sous was rigidly ex
ecuted, and without thc.fniaUrit op
petition. The itate of Paris is vow
more chat of a garrison than of a ci
ty. What effetfts the news of Du
>noiirier's conduct may produce, it
would be piefim>piio|i to anticipate.
The conduiTt of ihe Parillans is not
reducible to any known principles
of human action.
The (quadrou which failed from
Br eft oil the Stli of March, was. »
bliged to put back, having differed
fc~. Cicl
Achilles and the f ourvplle loft their
masts ; and Duval, the Commander
of 1 he (quadrun, was killed.
When the Commiliioners of the
Convention wete introduced to l)i|-
mourier, tliey a/ked him, by w;hofe
orders he had made the French ar
my retreat from the Belgic proviri
ces—he answered, by my oruti proper
order. " You tiien love the Belgic
provinces !" added he, " very well !
you (hall pay a visit to them your
l'elves."
BrifTo-t's party is now the leading
one ; he carries with hiin 300 mem
bers of the Convention, which,
f'eemingly undif'may ed, are pre
paring to refiit the renegade re
storer of Monarchy.
The Commiflionerg are lodged in
Maeftricht, by order (>f the Prince
de Cobourg, as a place of the great
elt ffrength. It is said the allies
suspend their operations until the
success of Dumourier is known.
April ji
The Gazette, in which errors are
as common as in newspapers of less
emolument, f'eems to have made a
small miltake in the number of pri-
I'oners taken by the Pruftians at the
battle ofßingen. It states thenoll
commiflioned officers and privates
taken at 200 ; the Bruflels Gazette
extraordinaiy makes the "number
2 COO.
The fame Gazette informs us,that
an aruii'ftice had been agreed upon
between his serene highnefa the
Prince of Saxe Cobourg and general
Duoiourier,' the latter having pre
viously confirmed to evacuate the
Aulirian Netherlands and Dutch
Brnbant.—Why his serene highness
(hould agree to anarmiftice, on con
dition of Duntourier's doing that,
which if the accounts of his serene
highnefs's vi&ories be true, he was
evidently obliged to do without any
condition, it is not eal'y to imagine.
The natural inference is, either that
Duinourier was (till in fufficient
force to dispute the pofleffion of the
Austrian Netherlands, or that the
prince ofbaxe Cobourghad puichaf
421
>• i Ms victorias at so dear a rate as
to make an armillicc desirable, if
not neceflary.
The Duke of Richmond is now
preparing a plan for the foi tificaii-
O" of Paris againit Republicans and
Levellers, which he mcqtis to tranl
inii' to Dumcurier as soon as the lat
ter has taken ftofleftion of the capi
tal and rellored the oid government.
Mr. Reeve* is ti> go over at the lame
'time, and transfer the feat of his
aflochuion front the c»own aud an
tibor to the palais ray ale.
The fajl. From the laie intelli
gence from the armies on the Con
tinent, the bi(hops will find it lie
cefliny ro make an alteration in their
form of pray er. Since the wicked
have seen the error of their ways
0-od turned into the right path—it
(houltl be rather a thanlCfgtving than
_
T.he admiralty of Anifteidam have
given notice that the embargo upon
all the veflels of the allies and neu
tral nations bound to the Baltic,the
Ealt and Welt-Indies, is taken off.
Dumpurier is said to have been
perfnafled to change fides by the
anihi dexter negotiations of Lord
Auckland.
Letters from Vienna and Cremo
na state, that a meflenger arrived on
the nth ult. at Milan, with intelli
gence that General Colli had de
feated the French at Nizza, taken
all t.lieir baggage ; and that Bit on,
their General, was wounded, sup
posed mortally.
Intelligence was yesterday tranf
initted to the admiralty by admiral
IVlacbride, that Dumourier, finding
that his army would not fuppoit
* i,i) in his plan of marching to Pa
ris, and placing young Lonis on the
throne, had found it necelfary to
consult his fafety by going over to
the Auftrjans ; and that he effecled
his escape from his own troops, car
rying with him a regiment of caval
ry, confiding of from four to fix
hundred men.
T-U
This intelligence is said to have
been received by Admiral
from the AuAi'tan commanding offi
ci'r at Oftend.
April 12
Yesterday morning Sir James Mur
ray arrived in town from Oitend,
with dispatches to government. He
left Antwerp the 9th inft. and has
inacje a * ery expeditious journey.
Sir James Murray confirms the le
port of Duuionriei's having been
obliged to return back to the Aus
trian head quarters at Mom.
The following intelligence may
be depended on as being con etft :
General Dumourier, at ilie head
of about 18,000 men, had reached
Canibrai, a town of considerable
ill ength iii the French Netherlands,
and 1 j miles S. W. of Valenciennes,
on his March towards Pari*. In the
coui fe of the 61 li inll. he oblerved
some difaffec r tion in his army, and
having arrived at Canibrai, he ob
served his artillery desert him, as
well as many of the National Volun
teers. He endeavored to rally his
force*, and harrangued the troops
of the line in particular, 111 a very
pathetic Ipeech, exposing to them
the villainy of the National Con
vention, and that it was impoffibJe
for the government to exilt much
lenger. He said it was a disgrace.
to serve such a cause.
The aruiy, in reply, nffured the
Genera] of tlieir persona] attach
ment and refpetft for him, but that
they could not content to follow
him in bis present views, and turn
their backs on the Conttituiion they
had fwurn to support. Finding this
disposition very general, Dumourier
thought it prudent to make good a
retreat as fuft as pofiihle; and on
the 7111 inft. be returned lotheAuf-
[Whole No. 428.]
irian iieatl.quarters at ar the
Lead of about 1100 Huflars, princi
pally belonging to the regiwcnt of
bercoiny, who bad always bepn
confklered as attached to the Royal
cause.
Young Egalite, who ranked as a
General in ibe army, is returned
vviih D«in«nitier, and has resumed
bis tiile of Duke de Chartres ; ihe
eon/equence of this will probably
be, that as soon as the Convention
bears this news, they will take his
father into custody, and all those
who are nearest attached to him, oiji
fuipicion of being accedaty to Du
iiiourier's treason.
The operations of Dumourier's
army are not known, after his leav
ing it ; it is certainly in a very dif
unired wreuhed (late, and we shall
not be furpi ifed to hear of its hav
ing totally dilbanded itfelf. Du
uiouiiei waj the very life and foul
of the canf'e in which he had em
harked ; and the French will not
find another General of abilities and
courage equal to him.
Gen. Duiwourier did not propose
to remain long at Mons ; he had
considerable expectations of being
able to collect a considerable force
of French Rovalilis in a very short
time, and return to some important
entei pi ize.
General Dampierre cook the com
mand of Duniourier Vanity on his
leaving it.
The dirertors of the India com
pany have resolved to puc up foqr
millions fix hundred and seventy
thousand pounds of tea at their sale
in Juuc next.
i>ir James Murray left Antwerp
on Tuerday ; and btfides a confir
mation of the failure of Dumou
rier's plan for refloiing roj'aity in
France, and his being obliged lo
confuh his perfoua! fafety, by fly
ing from his own army to the Auf
trians ; brought the result of the
Congress held at Antwerp on Mon
day ; at which were present,
The l'rince of Qrange
two lons ; his Excellency Vandv
Spiegel ; his ftoyal Hignnefs the
Duke ot York ; his Excellency Lord
Auckland ; his Excellency -Kul
ler, Miniiler of Pruflia ; his
Kighnefs the Prince dp Saxe Co
bum'g ; his Excellency M. Mettet;-
nich and his two foils ; the Count
rle Staieinbeig ; the Count Mercjr
d'Aigen;e,au ; the Minister of Spain;
the Miniiler of Naples.
The object was to fettle a general
plan fur tlie prosecution of the war ;
and, as i)umourier's defection bad
produced do material alteration, to
determine whether tlie combined
armies Ihotild again attempt the in
vasion of France, or confining the
French within their own frontier,
and cu-.ting them off from external
communication, leave the restora
tion of Monarchy to the efforts of
the Loyalists within the kingdom,
and the natural progress of discon
tent arising from diltrefs ainongthe
people.
In a letiei from Angers in France,
of a very late date, which came by
way of Ortend, it i» (laced chat there
have been two actions below Sau
mur in Brittany, between the Pa
triots and the insurgents. In the
firft aiftion, the Insurgents were de
feated ; in the second, which took
place the next day, they had ample
revenge of the National Guards ot*
Argeis, whose cannon they took.
This success made them mailers of
the bridges of Ce, an important pas
sage over the Loire, which opens
thcni ihe road to Anjou, and gives
them the command of the commu
nication between that province and
Poitou. The bridges of Ce are but
a (holt difianctf from Angers.
IThe ill focceft «f the campaign of last yrar.
had taught tue Auftrians and PruiTans the
difionlties that mall attend entering France ;
and produced declarations, tltat it was nut
tUeir intention to diktat? a form of Govern
ment, for the French, but to prevent tlie efc
fcfts of tbofil licentious principles wMeti t'.'irf
ed to tin iobverficn of every cftabli&ed gn
vernraeiit.
By tne however, it was resolved
jto comnrencc a plan of active operations a
gainst France, and instead of the chimerical
project of marching directly to Paris, to be
fiegc at dnce as many as poflibie of the (tron*
places on t .e frontier, which will block up
or call off the greafeft part of the Republican
troojs from the interior of tire Kingdom, and
leave the Royalists within it without much
opposition. If these places fall they wiil be
immediately occupied by the troops of the
Combined powers, and 'erve as points to act
fr<?m according to circuinftances, while tire
fleets of England, Holland, and Spain are to
form a chain of cruizei? round the coast, rea
dy to favor the Royalists wherever they ap
pear, and to cut off all the supplies by fi?a, as
the armies wiII do by land. Thus attacked
and hemmed in on all fides, with a strong par
ty to ad against them at home, the Republi
cans, it is hoped, must be soon subdued.
The cessation ofboftilities was declared at
an end, and the a!l"»es immediately commen
ced their Operations.
Such we understand to be the plan agreed
upon at this memorable Cong/e r s, in the ex
ecution of which Great-Britain is toafiift with
all her forces by sea and land. Of its practi
cability we prefiime not to give an opinion ;
but from the condutt of the allies in other
cases, we have little doubt but that if the
garnfons on the French frontiers (hould fall,
the Auftrians will take pofleflion of French
Flanders, Lorraine, and Alsace. This being
accomplished, Pruilia will have an equivalent
in another quarter, and peace will be offered
to the French without much regard to what
form of government they may choose to efta
blifli.
EatriSt of a letter from Antwerp, dated
April 8.
u The Deputies put under arrest by Dunrnu
rier, and sent to prince Cobourg, are at Ma
eftricht —Dumourier with young Egalite,who
now calls himfelf the duke de Chartres, and
his lifter Mariemoifelle D'Orleans, are at
Mons.
" The army which general Dumourier
lately commanded, is in the utmofl confufion,
and it is even said entirely dispersed, without
any regular leader. That General persua
ded himfelf, from the persona! attachmrnt
lhei.cn him by his a my, that he might pro.
mife himfelf their support, to the extent of
bis wilbes, in the project he had formed. He
was, however, miftakeu. He had advanced
as far as Cambray, on the wad to Paris,
when he found his army deserting him; the
artillery firft forfook him, then the national
guards. He then harangued the troops of the
line, who, in return, informed him, that, not
withstanding tbeir love to him as their ge
neral, and as a brave foidier they were deter
mined, to a man, neither to fight against their
country, nor to violate that constitution which
they had fwom to maintain.
" General Dumourier finding that he could
not depend upon the army, immediately set
Out with young Egalite at the head of two
regiments of horse, and took the road for
Mons. He Was, however, so closely pursued
by a party who followed him, that he was ab
solutely obliged to fight his way.
" It is said that Dumourier intends to re
cruit among the royalists, who now are very
numerous in France.
" The Auftrians have laid siege to Conde,
and expect to have made considerable pro
gress it] Fran<e before the end of fix weeks.
•' The French garrison that were in Bre
da have made a requisition to be allowed a
strong escort, left rhey should be murdered bv
the Brabantert, who are highly incensed a
gainst the French." '
Dumourier wrote from Mons, requeuing
permission to attend the Congress which was
refufed him.
General Valence was at Antwerp on the
day the Congress met, not as a member of it,
nor as a prisoner, but having gone thither
during the fu r penfion of hostilities. Our ac
counts do not (late on what motive.
The made of electing officers in the French
army which Dumouner in his letter, after
the battle of the 18th of March, propofeH to
suppress, has been the means of saving the
northern army to the republic. 'Had Du
monrier had the appointment of the officers
ever since he took the command, the army
would have gore with hiin. By the mode of
ele&ion they are worse ToMiers, but much bct-
Ur citiz'.ns.
BARCELONA, March I
M. Bourgoin, the French M nifter, previ
ous to his departure for France, had proposed
to leave M. Durtabi/e in quality of Charge
d'Affoires, per interim, and MefTrs. Piivabri
and Payou, as Consuls. The Minister agreed
prpvifionally to receive the two latter, but
rejected the former.—By thcTe dispositions,
the French here are exposed to the insults of
the people, extremely irritated on account of
the tragical death of Louis XVI.
Our fleet will soon be on a molt refpeftable
footing. The coinmandof it is given to Vice
Admiral the Marquis de Co'atelli.
The fleet of Cadiz consists of seven fail of
the line, seven frigates, and one brifeantine ;
that of Cai amounts to fix foil of the
line, three frigates and one brigantine, that
of Ferrol fix fail of the line. Total 20 fail
of the line, 10 frigates, or.e cutter and three
brigantines.
STATE PAPERS.
GENERAL DUMOURIER
TO THE
French Nation.
SINCE the Commencement of the Revolu
tion, I hare devoted myfclf td the main
tenance of the Liberty and Honour of the Na-
tion.
The fcrvices I rendered in the year 1791,
are the most memorable. Minister of Fo
reign A/fairs during three months, I elevated
and sustained (he dignity of the 1 rench name
throughout all Europe. I was calnmxtiaied by
an odious Cabal, by whom I was chargcd of ha
vingplundered fix millions of Livres, defined
for secret services. I have proved that of this
sum 1 did not expend half a million. v
Having quitted the career.of Politic*
the close of the month of June, I comman4eU a
small army in the Department of the North—
This Dq»artment 1 was ordered to quit with my
troops at the very time the Auftrians entered
in force that part of the Republic. 1 disobeyed
the order, fa ved the Department, and an attempt
was made to come on me by surprize, for the
purpose of conveying me to the citadel of Metz
where 1 was to be condemned by a Council of
War to fuffer death.
On the 28th of August, I took upon me, in
Champagne, the command of an army of twen
ty thousand weak, and wkhout either di
scipline or organization I arretted |jro
grefs of eighty thousand Pruflians and Heißans
and forced them to retreat after they had facri
ficed the one ha sos their army. } was then the
Saviour of France ; and then it was that the
most wicked of men, the opprobrium as French
men , in a word, Marat began to calumniate me
without mercy. With a part of the victorious
army of Champagne, and some other troops, I
entered on the sth of November, the Beigic pro
vinces, where I gained the forever memorable
battle of Jemappe ; and, after a fuccefTion of ad
vantages, entered Liege and Aix-la-Chapelle,
towards the close of that month. From that
moment my deftru&ion was resolved on ; and
I have been accused of aspiring, now te the ti
tle of Duke of Brabant,now to the Stadtholder
ship and again to the Di&atorfhio. To retard
and crufti my fiicceffes, the Minister Pache,
supported by the criminal faction, to whom all
our evils are to be ascribed, fuffered the vi&ori
ous army to want every thing, and succeeded in
diibanding it by famine and nakedness. The
consequence was, that more than fifteen thou
sand men were in the hospital, more than 25
thousand deserted through misery and disgust,
and upwards of ten thousand horses died of
hunger!!!
I transmitted to the National Convention ve
ry itrenuous remonstrances, which I followed
up by repairing in person to Paris, to engage
the LegiHators to apply a remedy to the evil.
They did not even condescend to read the four
memorials I delivered in. During the twenty
fix hours I spent at Paris, I heard almofl: e?ery
night bands of pretended Federates demand my
head; and calumnies of every as
well as menaces and insults followed me even
into the country house to which I retired.
Having delivered in my resignation, I was
retained in the service of my country, because
it was proposed to me to negociate the f'jfren
fion of the war against England and Holland,
which 1 had conceived as indispensable to the
fafety of the Netherlands. Whilil I negotiated
and that fuccefsfully, the National Convention
itfelf hastened to declare war, without making
any preparations and without either power or
means for its support.
I was not even advised of this Declaration,
and learned it through the medium of the Ga
zettes pnly. 1 hafttned to form a small army
of new troops, who had nevfer fought, and
with these troops, whom confidence rendered
invincible, I made myfclf miller of three strong
places, and was ready to penetrate into the
middle of Holland, when I learned the disaster
ot An-la-Chapelle, the railing of the siege of
Maeflricht, and the fad retreat of the army.
By this army I was loudly summoned. I aban
doned my conquests to fly to it* fuecour ; Mttt
considered that we could be extricated from our
difficulties by a speedy fu.cefs only. I led my
companions in arms to the enemy. On the i6th
of March I ha/1 a considerable advantage at
Tirelemont. On the ißth I brought the enemy
to a general a&ion ; and the centre and right
wing under my charge were victorious. The
left wing after having attacked imprudently,
fled. On the 19th we retreated honourably,
with the brave men that were left together, for
a part of the army disbanded itfelf. On the
1 ill and lid we fought with the fame courage,
and to our firmnefs was owing the preservation
of the remains of an aftny which breathes solely
for true Liberty, for the reign of the Laws,and
for the extinction of Anarchy.
It was then that the Marats, the Roberlpierrs,
and the criminal fe<9s of Jacobins of Paris, plot
ted the fall of the Generals, and more tfpecially
of mine. These villains, bribed with the gold
of foreign power, to cnmpleat the disorganiza
tion of the armies, caused almost all the generals
ti be arretted. They keep them in the jails of
Pans, to Septemberize them ; for thus it is
that those monsters have Coined a word, to
hand down t« posterity the remembrance us the
horrid massacres of the firft fa days of Septem
ber.
Whilst I was employed in re-compoCng the
army, in which employment 1 laboured night
and day, on the ill of April (yesterday) four
commiflionen. reached me with a decree, pur
porting that 1 Ihould be brought to the bar of
the Convention itfelf. The War Miniiler,
Boumonrille, my pupil, was weak enough to
accompany them, to fucceeil me in my com
mand. The persons who were in suite of these
perfidious er.iiflaries, informed me themselves,
that different groups of aflaffins, cither fugi
422
tires from or driven out of my army, were dis
persed on the raid to kill mc before I could
r.ach Pari*. 1 spent fcvcral hours in endeavor
ng to convince the commilEoners of the impru
dence of thisarrcft. Nothing could (hake their
prida, and I therefore arreted the whole of
them, to fcrre nx;M the crime*
of Part.. I •hh the Impe
rialilb a fufpenfibn «T *rtw» and mythed to
wards the capital, to extinguiA, at fooa aipof
fible.the lighted tmkeh of civil war.
My dear countrymen ! it is expedient that a
tree and brave mu remove from you the veil
which covers all our crimes and misfortunes —
In * 789, we made great efforts to obtain Liber
ty, Equality, and the Sovereignty of the People.
Our principles were consecrated in the Declara
tion of the Rights of Man, and there have re
sulted from the labours of our LegiQators, ift.
the declaration which fays that France is and
shall remain a Monarchy; idly, a Constituti
on to which we swore fealry in 1789, 90,
and 91.
This constitution might, and indeed mud
have been imperfeA ; but it ought and might
have been believed, that with time and experi
ence its errors jvould be rectified, and that the
necessary ltrifi: between the Legislative and
Executive powers would establish a wife equili
brium, which would prevent cither of these
powers from feiking the whole of the authority,
and attaining despotism. If the difpotifm of a
single individual is dangerous to Liberty, how
much more odious must be that of 700 men,
many of whom are void of principles, without
morale, and who have been able to reach that
lupremacy by cabals or crimes alone I
Licentiousness and excess fooa rendered it
impofiiblc to support the yoke of a constitution
that gave laws. The tribunes influenced the
afiembly of reprf Tentative s, and were themselves
awed by the dangerous club of Jacobms of Paris.
The llrife between the two powers became at
length a daily combat, then was the equilibriarr.
destroyed. France ceafcd to have a king, and
the vi&ory of the ioth of August was foiled by
the atrocious ci imes of the firft days of Sep
tember.
All the departments, but more especially the
wretched city of Paris, were delivered up to pil
lage, to denunciations, proscriptions, and mafla
cres. No Frenchman, the afiaflins and their ac
complicesexcepted, had either his life or his pro
pel ty in fecunty ! The consternation of slavery
was augmented by the clamorous orgies of vil
lains. Bands of pretended federates ran thro*
and laid wade the departments ; and of the
700 individuals who composed thisdefpotic and
anarchial body, 4 or 500 groaned and decreed,
and decreed and groaned, exposed to the exter
minating swords of the Marats and Roberffi
erres. It is thus that the unfortunate Louis the
16th perilhed, without a judicial trial and with
out a tribunal; and 'tis thus that the decree of
the 19th of Nov. has provoked all nations by
holding out to them our aid, provided they will
disorganize themselves. 'Tisthus that the un
just and impolitic decree of the 15th of Dec. has
alienated from us the hearts of the Belgians,
has driven us from the~ Netherlands lind would
have brought about the massacre of the whole of
our army, by this nation, provoked at our out
rages and our crimes, if 1 had not saved that ve
ry army by my proclamations. *Tis thus that a
decree established the bloody tribunal which
which places th« lives of the citizens at the mer
cy of a small number of iniquitous judges,with
out recourse or appeal to any other tribunal.
*Tisthus that during the last month all the de
crees have been marked by the (lamp of infaria
ble avarice, by the blindest pr .de and more espe
cially by the delire of maintaining power, by
calling to the most important posts ©i the ft ate
no other than d?ring, incapable and criminal
men, by driving away or murdering men en
lightened and of a high chara&er, and by sup
porting a phantom of a republic which their er-
rors in administration and in policy, as well as
their crimes, had rendered impra&icable. These
700 individuals despise, detest, calumniate and
revile each other, and have already, and that
frequently, thought of poignarding the one the
other. At this moment their blind ambition
has impelled them to coalesce afrefh ; and bold
criminality allies itfelf to feeble virtue, to pre
serve a power as unjust as it is unileady. In
the mean time their Committees devour every
thing, that of the National Treasury absorbing
the public funds, without being able to render
any account of the expenditure.
What has this convention done to maintain
the war it has provoked again 11 all the powers
of Europe ?
It has disorganized the armies, instead of re-
inforcing and recruiting the troops of the line,
and the ancient battalions of national volunteers
which would have formed a refpeilable army,
Instead of recompensing these brave warriors
by promotion and praises, these legifiators have
left the battalions incomplete, naked, di farmed
and discontented. In the fame way have they
treated the excellent cavalry : and the brave
French artillery is in the fame manner exhaufl
ed, abandoned, and in want of every neceffa-
ry. They notwithstanding create new corps,
ccmpofed of the iatellites of the ad of Septem
ber, and commanded by- men who hava never
served, and who are in no other way to be di«a
ded unless by the army they surcharge aod dis
organize. The convention facrifices every thing
to these satellites of tyranny, to these cowardly
headloppers. The choice of officers, and that
of adminifixators. are in every particular the
fame; we fee throughout the tyranny which
flatters the wicked, because the wicked alone
can support tyranny . And in its pride and its
ignorance, this convention orders the connuell
anddiferganization of the whole Univerft; it
fays to one of its generals, Go and take Rome,
and to another, fully forth and fubduc Spain',
to the end that defpoilipg coniniiffioiiers, simi
lar to tl-.ofe horrid Roman procoDfuls again (I
whom Cicero declaimed, may be sent thither.
In the wtrft season of t>j rrCr it feoA tfceo*.
ly fteet it poTeff'i iiito the Meditemfl!Uij t*
fp'.it and founder on die rocks of Sardinia •
whiMl it exfotet the fleet at Bret ta the fnry of
the fierns, by fending them in qu~ft ofm
Engliih fleet that has nor ret left it* port.
In the mnn time a civil war fpreaos thrWMfc
all the department*. Some of the infinwnts
are excited by fanaticism, the efle&of
perfecntion j others by an «d>jp»it*at> at (K«
tragical and frutleft end nf I.r.uis XVI. ando.
then final 1 j-, by the natuia! principle of refit
injf perfccottoti.
Arms are every nrh-rrt taken op ; mor«W,
every where committed ; and evtrv where ate
pecuniary fupplie* and prorifiona intercepted.
The Englift foment these trxubiEs, and win b
their fuccoArs,fiipply fud to tKem at.thrir pl-a.
sure. Soon will every one of o«r corfiirj diff».
pear on the ocean ; fain will the foqthera dfc.
partment eeafe to receive supplies of com fro*
Italy and Africa, and a tread y have thole from
the north and from America been intercepted
by the fqaadrons of the enemies. F.-un oe will
annex itfel/ to all otir other scourges, nod the
ferocity of our cambala will but encreafe our
calamities.
Frenchmen! we have a rallying point which
can ftifle the monfler of anarchy; 'tis the coo
ftitution wefwore to maintain in 1789.
'tis the work of a free people; and we
(hail remain free, and recover our glory, by r<v
fuming our conilitution.
Let us display our virtues, more especially
that of mildness ; too much blood has aires y
been spilled. If the monsters by whom we have
been diforgaitized chufe to fly, let us leive them
to meet their punilhment elsewhere if they do
not find it in their own corrupted hearts ; Hut
if they wi£h to support anarchy by new crimes
then /hall the army punift them.
In thegenerofity of 'be enemies we Fare of
ten grievously outraged, I have foundthe feca
rity of external peace. Not only do th y treat
humanely and attentively our wognded iielc,
and prisoners who fall into their hands; and all
this in despite of the calumnies fprtad by our
agitators to render us ferocious; hut they en
gage to suspend their march, not to pass our
frontiers, and to leave to our brave array the
termination of all our internal difientions.
Let the sacred torch of the love of our cmn
try awaken in us our virtue and our courage!
at the bare name of conftitut on, civil war will
cease, or can no longer exjlt unless againfl cer
tain malevolent men who will no longer befup
ported by foreign powers. These have no hat
red to any others among us except our feSious
criminals, and desire nothing more fervently
than to reltoi« their esteem and friendlhip to a
nation, whose errors and anarchy difturW tnd
trouble Earcjji* Peace \vin 0>4,, 0 f
this resolution, and the troops of tbe
well as the brave national volunteers, whb r*.
the fpase of a year have offered themselves as
willing facrifices to liberty, and who abhor i.
narchy, (hall repose in the bosom of their fami
lies after having accomplished this noble work.
As to myfelf I have already made an oath,and
I repeat it before the whole nation, and in the
presence of all Europe, that immediately after
having effefled the fafety of my country by 'tie
re-eftabli(hment of the conditution, of peace
and good order, I fliall abandon every pilhtic
function.and lhall seek in solitude the enjoynu«t
of the happiness of my fellow citizens.
Tbe General in chief of the French armv,
DUMOURIER.
Baths of St. Amand, April 2, 1793.
The Marefchal Prince of Saxe Cobourg, Gene*
ral in chief of the armies ol his Majesty the
Emperor and of the Empire,
TO THE FRENCH.
The general in chief JDumouricr has commu
nicated tome his declaration to the French cati
on. In it 1 find the fentimects and principles
of a virtuous man, who truly loves hi- coun
try, and who wishes to put an enH to the cala
mities and anarchy by which it is defolatcd, by
procuring for it the happiness of a conftitutiofl
and a wife and permanent govefnmetlt. Ikno*
this also to be the unanimous wish of all the
sovereigns whom foroc fadbou* perfaEs have ar
med against France, and particularly that of hit
Majesty the Emperor, and his Prussian Majef
*7-
Filled at this moment with esteem for the
bulk of so great and so generous a nation, to
whom the immutable principles of honor and
justice were held sacred, until by the repetition
of outrages, difordens afid impolhires, that part
of it has been estranged and corrupted, which
under the maflc of humanity and of patriotism,
fpealcs of nothing but aflaf&hations & poigna'rds
Knowing also that this is the wi(h of all vir
tuous people in
ri — -
Profoundly penetrated with these great truths
mddeQring nothing but the prosperity andglo
j of a country torn by so many convulsions &
misfortunes:
I declare by the present proclamation, that I
will support by all the force «n my power the ge
nerous ar.d beneficent intentions of the gene
ral in chief Dumourier, and his br ve army.
I declare besides, that having lately fought us
on several occasions as a gallant, intrepid and
generous enemy, I will join a part of my troops,
Ihoijldgenerat Dumourier desire it, or even all
mr army to that of France, to co-operate a*
friends and companions in arms worthy of rer
ciprocal e eem, so as to restore to France her
constitutional king, the constitution (he has cho
sen, and as a neceffiry consequence, the means
of perfecting it, if the nation fnould fine? it im
perie<sl; thus to restore to France, as well as to
the rell of Europe, peace, confidence, tranquil
lity a«d happiuefs. I therefore declare on my
word of honor, that I willnot enter the terri
tory of France to make conquests, but limply
and purely for the purposes above mentioned.
I further declare upon my word of honour,
that should the nvlitary opjrations require one
or more fortre lies to be given up to my troops,1 will kefp them marely as a (acred truth, and
I engage in the mofl express and positive terms,
to restore them,as fDon as the government which
lhallbe eftablilhed in France, or the brave ge
neral with whom I am about to make a common
cause, (hall demand inch a concession. I alio
declarethati will give the most ltr:ct ordets,
and will take the most vigorous and effe&ual
measures that my troops (hall not commit the
least disorder ; not allowing the fmallell exac
tion or violence 5 and every whe.f
on the territory of France, perlons and proper
ty. Any one belonging to my army who ihal
disobey my orders to this effect (hall be immedi
ately punilhei with the most ignominious death
Given ai the head quarters at Mods, the 51!
of April 179.3.
Thk PRINCE DI COBOURG.
TheMirefchal Prisce of Saxe Cobourg, Gene
ral and Commander in Chief of the armies
of his Majesty the Emperor, and of the Em-
pire, to the French.
The Declaration which I made from my head
quarters at Mons, dated the sth of April 1793
is a public testimony of my personal fentimencs
to reftsre as soon as poflible,peace and tranquil
lity to Europe. In it I manifeited in a sincere
and open manner, my particular <4efire that the
French nation might have a solid and durable
government, founded on the unihaken basis of
julticcand humanity, which might ensure peace
to Europe, and happiness to France.
Now that the result of this declaration is so
opposite to the effe<sU it ought to have produced
and which proves but too plainlythat the senti
ments which have dilated it have been misun
derstood, it only remains for me to revoke it
entirely, and to declare formally, that the llate
of war which fubfifls between the court of Vi
enna and the combined powers and France, is
from this moment unhappily renewed.
I find myfelf therefore forced, by the predo
minating influence of the circumrtancesj which
the most guilty meil persist in dire&ing to the
overthrow and deftru<slion of their country, to
annul entirely my former declaration, and to
make known that a state of war so unfortunate,
being renewed, I have given the neceflary or
ders for commencing it, in concert with the al
lied powers, with all the energy and vigor of
which victorious armies are capable.
The celTation of the armistice is the firfl hof
tileftepthat the unfortunate combination of e
vents has forced me to make. There will there
fore only subsist, of my former declaration, the
inviolable engagement, which I again renew
with pleasure, that the most exact discipline will
be observed and maintained by my army upon
the French territory, and that every breach
thereof willbepunifhed with the utmost rigor.
Thefincerity and loyalty which at all times
have been the principle of my anions, oblige me
to give to this new address to the French nation
all the publicity of which it is susceptible, to
leave no doubt of the consequences thafnayre
fultJxain '
Given at the head quarters at Mons, the 9th
of April, 1793. ;
The PRINCE de CO BO U KG. j
United States.
BOSTON, May 39.
The President having declared, the happi
ness and best iiMCH'frs of the United States would
be promoted by observing a ftri£l neutrality
in the prefent-conieft among the powers hf Ew
rope—and the new AmbalTador from the
French Republic having txprefsly said, that
France *' doe| not expect that America should
become a party in the war the citizens of the
United Stales may left fatisfied, that their pre
sent defiriiblc ifatc of tranquility will not be in
terrupted ; and may make their coimncrcial
and other arrangements accordingly.
The Governors of Ponufylvania, Maryland,
and New-York, have ifiued Proclamations, 111
s-d of the Proclamation of the President Q f the
United States, relpe&ing Neutrality ; and some
have supposed the circuinftance trivial and new ;
— but fur.h are informed, that the Lt. G->v rnors
of Nova-Scotla and New Brunfwick, have ifiued
Proclamations tn aid ot the Proclamation of the
king of Great-Britain, declaring hoftiluies a
gainst the French, &c. So that if trivia/, the oc
currence is not new.
On Monday arrived here the brig Two-Bro
theis, Capr. Roffe, from St. Peters. The Com
mander informs us, that on the 14th inft. a 811-
lilh armament ot two frigates, two sloops of war
and a transport, arrived off St. Peter's, (New
foundland) and immediately made preparations
for landing the marines and troops ; who, meet
ing; with no resistance, took poff. flion of the
iflmd : That on the land iog ot the troops,Capt.
AMTe cut his cables, and flipt 10 fca : And that
there was on American vefl 1 there, a schooner
of this port, Cant. Barker, and about 20 French
fifh np.v ff< Is. The Briufh squadron was com
man-led hv Commodore Affleck—the troops by
Gen. Ogilvic.
BALTIMORE, May 30.
arrived here the brig Prince
William Henry, Capt. James Mitchell, from
St. Kitts, hut last from Sr. Euftatia, which
®>* left the 17th inft. By her we learn, that
th» Rritifh fleet, commanded bv Admiral
Gardner, had*clearcd the Weft-India station
of French men of war and cruisers—That
there were (Vut two French armed veflels in
those sea-, <jne of which had b«en captured by
the Thifby rtian of war—That the Governor
St. Enftatia informed Mm, that the Brit.ifh
troops had larded at Martinico, and that
Malvo, the French naval commander, had
joined the British fleet.
HVlll ADELPHIA, |nnr 5.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
per Cer.ts, 17 ("5
» ptrCtms, aln
D«f«,«d, 10/1
full Qufci Bank U. S. 6to 8 per <ftnt. adv,
Philadelphia, June 5.
Saturday 'ast an elegant entertainment was
given by a number of the Citize is of Pnila
delph-a, at Oeljsrs' Hotel, in honor of Citizen
Genet. Mini lie r Plenipotentiary of France to
the United States. The Cap of Liberty was
placed at the head of the table, between the
American and French flags.
The following Toufts were drank on this
occasion, under the discharge of cannon :
1. The People and the Law.
2. The People of France—may they have
but one head, one heart, and one arm, in sup
port of tbfc righteous cause of Liberty.
3- The People of the United State-]—may
Liberty only be their idol, and Freemen only
be their brethren.
4- The Republics of France and America—
may they be forever united in the cause of
Liberty.
5- May principles and not men be the ob
jects.ot republican attachment.
6. May France give an example to the
world, that the balances of a gove nment de
pend more upon knowledge and vigilance
than upon a multifarious combination of its
powers.
1- Li complainining of the temporary evils
of revolutions, may we never forget, that the
greater evils of Monarchy and Aristocracy
are perpetual.
8. The spirit of Seventy-Jix and Ninety-tzvo—
may the citizens of America and France, as
they are equal in virtue, be equal in success.
9- May true republican simplicity lpe tie
only ornament of the magistrate in every
elective government.
10. Confufion to the councils of the confe
derated de(pots, and dismay to their hoft>—
may they never be able to form a centre of
union or of action.
11. May France prove a political Hercules,
and exterminate the Hydra of defpotif'm frorn
the earth.
12. Peace, Liberty and Independence—
May the tyrants ard traitors of all countries
bepunifhed by the eftablilhment of the happi
ne.s which they wifti to betray or destroy.
13- May the systems of the United States
be entirely their own, and no corrupt exotic
be e igrafted upon the tree of liberty.
14- May the defection of individuals teach
us to place our hopes of the fafety and perpe
tuity of Fredom, on the whole body of the
people.
15. May the clarion of Freedom founded
by France, awaken the people of the world to
their own happiness, and the Tyrants of the
earth be prostrated by its triumphant founds.
SONG,
BY MAJOR STACG
God save the Right) of Man !
Give us a heart to scan
Bleifings so dear !
Let them be spread around
JW kg re vex jnan is found,
And with the welcome lound,
Ravifli his ear.
Let us with France agree,
And bid the world be free
—'While tyrants fail—
Let the rude lavage host
In their vast numbers boast—
Freedom's almighty trull
Laughs at them all. <
Tho' hoftj of Haves conspire
To quench fair Gallia's Are,
Still shall they fail :
Tho' tiaitors round her rife,
Leagu'd with her enemies,
To war each patriot flies,
And will prevail.
The world at last will join
d thy great delign,
Dear Liberty !
To Rnilia's frozen lands,
The generous flame expands;
On Asia's burning sands
Shall man be free.
In this our weflern world
Be Freedom's flag unfurl'd
Through all our shores,
May no deftru&ive blast
Our heav'n with clouds o'ercaft,
May Freedom's fabric Jail
While earth endures.
If e'er her cause should fail,
Ambition's fiends afTail,
Slaves to a throne ;
May no p. oud despot daunt—
S iou d he his ItaTidard plant,
Freedom will never want
Hf.r Washington !—
It is worthy of remark, (fays the General
Advertiser) that the committee who had the
arrangement of the Civic Fcaft, determined
to celebrate it in the true republican style,
and to regard principles and not men, as the ob
jects of commemoration ; in the opinion that
principles were immutable and eternal, hut
that men we e liable to change.
The frigate I'Embufcade, weighed anchor
last Saturday morning, and failed from this
port,- supposed 011 a cruize ; but her deftina
"tion is not known.
The patro'es who watched our streets latt
Friday evening, defer ve much praile for their
vigilance—and we are happy to hear thsy
found no occasion to apprehend any irregular
persons whatever; every thing was quiet.
The Weltern Posts, we understand will be
speedily delivered up to the United States.-—
We alio leirn, that Gov. Simcoe is erecting
new forts within the Britifti territories, to
form a chain to defend the frontiers of Ca
n?da. Fame speaks highly of the urbanity
and liberality of the above Governor.
Columt. Cintinil.
423
By an arrival at New-York, Erglili papers
are received to the iStfi April—They infoim,
pm (nant to. a decree of the National
Convention, the Royal Family r/as to be sent
to Marseilles,' i„ i, e confined there as hostages
'or the faffcty of the Commissioners arretted
by Dnmouner— That Philip Egalite is corn
nutted to cu-fj confinement in the prison* Ja
Cohciergerie—Cuftine has retired fromMenti
to Land.-w, with pai't of his army—a letter
from him was read by Cambon to the Conven
tion, in which he fays, "I am ordering back
to M'ace all the magazines of ammunition
ana provi/jon, not being able to refill the ene
my, who, be fides 32,000 men that block up
Mentz,prcfs 011 me with 80,000 —Icanfcarie-
ly mailer a few broken fquadrnns of cavalry,
to oppole 53,000 m the belt order—ft is ini
pollible for me to command an army disor
ganized by the new mode of eleftioji which
you have decreed—l request it as a f.ivor
that yon will quickly fend me a fuccelfor—l
prefer dying as a fbldier, to leading biave
men to daughter as a general."--The reft of
ihe latter conlifted of bittercomplaints against
Bournonville.
A new mode of electing officers was de
creed.
The papers ieprefent the city of Lille as in
a very deflitute fituation—Dumonrier arriv
ed at BrnlTels the I Ith April—Lafaye,a mem
ber of the Jacofcins, in the fitting of April 9th,
informed the , Society, " That the Marfeil
lefe, after disarming all suspicious pel lons,
hnd thrown them not into a prison, but into
a bitryingground."
Portugal has at length finally determined
on a war with France—Eleven fail of Englifli
merchantmen have been carried into Mar
seilles—On Duraourier's defection, the com
mand at his army was given to Dampierre.
The commitfioners of the northern arm»
state. that Dumonrier was obliged to fwiin a
river to el'cape his pursuers.—General Paoli
has beeu denounced as a conspirator, and was
oil toUway to Paris as a prisoner to be tried.
Success had attended the exertions of the pa
triot"; all the posts 011 the banks of the Vil
lains, occupied by the seditious, had been
taken.'—Accounts from Cadiz fay, that above
a thnufand Frenchmen were expelled from
that place, many of them refpedtable and opu
lent merchants.
Among the reports in the Engiifti papers,
are the following :—That Mentz was taken—
That General Cuftine was a prisoner to the
cofibined forces—That an account had beer*
received of an infurre&ion in Paris—That
the Auftrians were within a few hours march
of Dunkirk—ThatGenerals Miranda, Wimp
fen, Stingen and Lanoue, had been decapi
tated in Paris.—The papers further state,
that in January last stock was pur
chafqjl in the English funds for Dumourier.
By a vefTel arrived here from Bristol yester
day, last from Milford in England, an account
is received of Dumourier's being confined by
the Auftrians.
We are informed that in consequence of in
ttrtrflums from the Executive of tiie United
Sunes, to the Attorney for the diftrift of Penn
sylvania, prosecutions have been mliitutcd against
Singleterry and Gideon Henfield, charged
with violating their duty as citizens of the Unit
ed Starrs, in entering on board the armed schoo
ner Genet, in the service of Fiance, and, with
others on board the said schooner, captuiing se
veral veflels, the property of the fubjefts of his
Britannic Majcfty, and otherwise annoying the
trade and commerce of the said fubjefts, con
trary to the la wj, of nations and the treaty of
peace subsisting between the United States and
his laid Britannic Majesty.
Tbe above named persons have ben commit
ted to the jail of the county of Philadelphia, to
lake (heir trials at the next Circuit Court of the
United States.
Singlctetry is a native of Charlcfton, South-
Carolina, and has a family at Beaulort, in North-
Carolina ; Henfield was born at Salem, in Mas
sachusetts.
Capt. Samuel Brady, who had been indi&ed
for murdering certain Indians in the year 1791,
was fried the 20ih wit. at Pittsburgh, and ac
quitted r-»t appearing by the evidence that the
Indians killed were hostile.
According to an accurate estimate, the loss of
the fuffcrers by the late fire in Third Street, «x
---clufive of the framed buildings consumed, a
mouius to thefum of 23181. among fif
teen persons—The sums colle&ed irom the con
tributions of the citizens for their relief, amount
to 9321. 13. Bd, which in a rateable proportion
to the loss <if each fufferer, yielded a dividend of
81. in the sound.
Accordirrg N to a paragraph in Mr. Dunlap's
paper of Monday last, the French garnfon of
Tooatrp when taken by the Englifb consisted of
only'Fo* TV Men —It cannot be surprizing,
therefore, that the IfUnd should have been tak
en—ivhen, according to the fame paragraph, the
force sent on the expedition amounted to two
compleat British regiments, besides a great num
ber of volunteers from Barbadoes, and French
emigrants from the Colonies, and these assisted
by tour-fifch.s of the inhabitants of the Island,
who are almost all English,
COMMUNICATIONS.
.Thetfonduft of some politicians, fays a cor
respondent, ts enigmatical to those who pay on
ly a curfoiy attention to fa&«—but a compan
ion ot the prejent with ?hr P&JI, will throw some
light on t .e luoi"&—While the old inveterate
enemies of the union of the States, t he advocates
of rmafures which would have kept the country
in perperual discord, are actuated by herrdnary
enmity lo an efficient government in their flan
derion the admin'ttiation—there is another de
scription, whol»movemen * are evidently found
ed on the expectation »»1 retrieving theii circum
ftan< es by a new fir mblc in the tunds of the
United States—-To etf: & this, the full operation
of pitnctpl *th.;i fb=dl enervate (he public con
fidence, they have sense enough to know, mult
yrectUc a general depreciation.
The abrtfe wVcb rani?* upon the puV
iic ietvants, i§ often the of diicour/e
in private companies. Tie wen of no party,
and the moderate of a)) parties, conftfs that
it is undeserved. But they generally comfort
them»elves with the idea that tis a good fort
of diiciplinc to keep the government right
We praftife many ftra<:ge arts to perfuarie
ourselves that most events which wc cannot
prevent, are not evils. Now were it not for
thfs willingnefj of the mind to be dup«d, it
would be hard to fee how a free goverifintnt
can be made hone ft and fair in its adininjfha .
tion, by the bale ft suspicions, ai.d the moil
unmeasured abnfe. In private lite, a liian
Jofes his virtue when he loses his reputation.
Suspicion, however unjust, yet if it be gene
ral and continued, is a corrupter of the virtue
that is fuTpefted. Let the government do
what it may,, £U»:der fallows it like its iba
dow. How long it is poilible for a free go
vernment thus to be tampered with, we sue
in a fair way to Jearn by the event.
It must be co;ifefled in candor and justice
towards the scribblers and mifchief-makers
of the day, that thole per/ons are the greatest
enemies of law, who have the greatest cause
to be enemies—such persons may fay, they
are armed in their own defence, the Jaw hav
ing struck the firft blow. Men oppreifed with
debts, gamblers who venture all at a throw,
men of principles unfit to obtain property or
power in orderly quiet times, find it easier
and more pleasant to attempt to change the
times than their own conduct and principles.
Vet some of this description are the noisiest
clamorers for a fuper;or purity in the admi
uiftration of public affairs. Nothing that is
done is good enough to suit them. They are
afraid of bad principles creeping into the ad
ministration of the government. Why lhould
not those most diflruft human nature, who,
upon looking into own hearts and lives,
find the very worst evidence agaii ft it. A
good private character lhould f>e required as
the test of public trust. Try them by that
touchstone, and what will become of the brag
ging merits of some fcoves of our reformers*
The Merchants and Traders of Baltimore
have addr;fled the President of the United
States, oil Ills Proclamation declaring the :ieu
trailty of the United States.
SHIP NEWS.
AR RIVED at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Hope,
Bet fey,
Slater,
Porter,
Sally, Heak, St. John's, Newfoundland
Sch'r Two B> others, Phillips, Port-au-Prince
Two Friends, Ware, N.York
CharmingEerfey, Crownijiglhield, Salem
Sloop Snkey, Fluent, Virginia
Nancy, Elliott, do.
Union, Chandler, do.
Our RtuUu art rtfu*jlU 4» .At
following error in our laji ; 3 d cot. gi page, gorf
lint from the top, for " wnttrj 'jf,'' read writers
againfl.
This day is publijhed, by
M A T H E W CAREY,
No. 118, Markel-ftrcct, Philadelphia,
No. IV. of
Guthrie's Geography,
IMPROVED,
The terms of Subscription may be seen in the
propofalsat laige.
THIS valuable work will contain (exchjve
oj the maps in the London edition oj 1792)
maps of Maffachufetis, Con
necticut, R. I (land, Vermont, N. York, N. Jer
sey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Vir
ginia, Kentucky, N. Carolina, S. Carolina,
Georgia, Switzerland, the Discoveries of Cap*
tains Cooke and Clerke, and the countries
round the North Pale.
Befidesthe great improvements in the Ame
rican Geography, the accounts of France wilL
be extra&ed from the French Geography, pub
lished fin ce the revolution ; the map of Fiance
will be engraved agreeably to the division into
departments: the history of Ruflia, which, in
the London edition, is carried no farther than
1775, is continued to the late execrable invasion
of Poland by Catharine : the account o! Swe
den h »s been compiled anew, and
other improvements will be made in this edi
tion.
* # * Subscriptions are received by the book
sellers in Boston, New-York, Baltimore, Wil
mington, Richmond, Charledon, &c. See.
June 5
FOR SALE, BY
MATHEW CAREY,
At his Store, No. 118, Market-Artce,
Philadelphia,
The AMERICAN MUSEUM, from its
commencement in January, 1787, to its
termination in D?cember, 1792, in twelve vo
lumes, price, neatly bound and lettered, nine
teen dollars and one fifth.
The opinion oi the Frefident of the United
States, refpetting this work, is l* follows ;
" I believe the American Museum has met
with cxtenfive, 1 may fay, with universal ap
probation from competent judges ; for I am of
opinion, that the work, is not oniy eminently
calculated io d idem mate political, agricultural,
philosophical, and oth r valuable infoimation ;
but that it has been unijorrn/y concluded with I a (It,
attention, arid propriety. If to these important
ohjefts br fupcradded the more immediate de-
of refcumg public documents from obli
vion—l will venture to pronouncc, as my fen-
tirnem, that a modi uuruL litiraky
plan HAS NEVER IIIN IM
ame a 1c a, or one Moat otiikviNc or rui>
i-ic tNCOWft ACtMINT."
Jmte j
Liverpool
11. Iflardfivm the Massac ;iui«i r» M«u»nKi
SONNET,
To PHI LE SI A, un a STANZA, i« her
AUDRtSS 10 MIR A.
" CINCF. Srtl an 11 ctioh's dreary frown,
O GU-'fnM !■ e bright tu.uin rut my d.y»,
Ne'er has l**V f AHKHVrT B'ISUM known.
A folacr, like bti| |>eerlei» piaiit." [W.MiiJ.]
IHY " Cojoth bankrupt'."—fair Pe'u d:vine
Of every Ibai e'er has (bone,
In datzlrd i-ancy'* unelk&ual mine,
Of ever t ' irtue't ladiani zone.
Thy •• Bt/tm iamirkpt !"—Nat»ri, (mini r tar,
Shall n ll.rxluultfd, fliwerlefi ;
l.ea«e ilie brt>«d ryr i»f uteri, without * ray ;
Aud ftrij> the puti to ktatx* oJ every lUr.
Thy " Bofm bankrupt!"— Ah, those furrows
crile,
Which iaut(ht us how to w«/>, and how admire-.
The tear, that tails to footlie ihy wound, d peace,
Wiih rapture giiftens o'er th ) mitchlcli lyre.
Jnd and GoTc.ond'i, ;*) one Jirm combin'd.
Shall foiut bankrupt, than Phi i. in i a'» mind.
EXTRACTS,
Written in 17.90. — Travjlalcdjrom ike French.
THE expedient of arming the
poor figainli the rich, isas absurd as
execrable. Want and necefiity have
created more ties between the rich
and the poor, than philosophy can
eafity difiolve. It is necefiity which
makes the multitude of poor per
ceive, that they could not exifl with
out the feyfr rich ; it is the fame pro
vident neceflity which forbids the
ivy from ftifling with its thousand
arms the oak which supports it and
saves it from creeping on the ground.
THE true philosophy of a people
is policy ; —and while philosophy
teaches to fonie individuals retire
meut, the contempt of riches and
honor ; policy dictates to nations to
enrich themlelves at the expense of
their neighbours, to cover the seas
wirh their navies, and obtain by
their industry and activity a prefer
ence in all the markets ot the uni
verse ; for two nations are to each
other in a state of pure nature, like
two savages contending for the
fame prey., •
THE experience of part ages
proves, that whenever the people
have exetcifed in theinfelves the
three powers, the democracy is im
mediately changed into anarchy ;
violent oiatots agitate the multi
tude as the winds toss the waves ;
and the people flattered by dema
gogues, have committed all the eJ£-
cetfes, abrogated their best laws,con
demned their best citizens, and dis
sipated the public revenues. In
Athens, the sovereign was mad,and
the state miserable.
This experience of all ages fur
ther proves, that if the three pow
ers are united in the hands of a se
nate or an individual, there is im
mediately an ariftocraticai or a mo
narchical despotism.
To obtain therefore, a tolerable
eonftiftution, the fovereigury mtrlt
divide ifself—But flow experience
has at length come in aid of rea
foti, and has (hewn that whenever
only two bodies are eftabliihed as
the depofitai its of power, they are
neceflarily engaged in a combat,
which mufl finifii in the extinction
of one or the other, and the deltrmic
tion of the public happiness. When
Rome had banished her kings, the
senate took their place, and govern
ed like despots—until at length the
people by frequent infurr6ifHons
compelled them to acknowledge
the magifhacy of the tribunes.
From that moment peace was ba
nilhed front Rome ; the tribunes in
their turn, having gained the victo
ry over the fenare,deflroyed liberty,
and violenily led the Sovereign Peo
ple to slavery.
THE word Liberty will always be
an enigma while we tlifcern in it
a»y thing more than the work of
the law, and the fruit of the consti
tution ; while we compound it with
natural independence, we are A ill
in want of a good 'definition of li
berty—To undei ftai>4, it we mult
enquire what are the elements of
liberty. It seems to me that man,
when he exchanges the condition in
which nature places him, to become
the social being, loses his indepen
dency to acquire greater security.
Liberty then is the rcfuit uj a ct/itruil
b.tvjccn iiidepcuJente and JteurlTj.
Man quits his companions of the
woods, who do not disturb him, but
who may devour him, to enter into
a society which will not devour him,
but inult ueceflaiijy conltrain him.
—He makes the belt bargain he can, I
and when he enters into a society
who have a good constitution, iie
(urrendeis as little of his indepen
dence, anil obtains as great (ecurity
as poilible. It is like a ship, which
we get insured oil leaving our fltores,
of which, for the fertility of the
whole, we voluntarily rt-linquifb
pan of the profits. With this defi
nition of liberty, we may explain
all the phenomena presented to us
in ancient or modern history. At
Rome and Athens, for example, in
dependence prevailed over I'ecurity.
In a monarchy like England, fecu*
rity prevails over independence.
MENANDKR
By THOMAS JOHN.iON, DAVID
STUART,&: DANIEL CARROLL,
Ffquires,
Cow mission ens appointed by Government t®
prepare the Public buildings, See. wuhin the
City of IVaJJiington, for the receptionof Con
gress, and tor their permanent ufideitce after
the year 1800 —
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets «>t 7 dollars, arc 350,000 dollars.
20 dido
100 ditto
20« ditto
400 ditto
I,coo ditro
15,000 ditto
16,737 P izrt
33, 63 H.ditks
50,000
By this scheme at leoji the amount of the tick
ets will return to ilie fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City vrili gain its object thereby,
in a magnificent building defined both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although some expence must necessarily at
tend the conducting of the lottery, (which ex
pence y> ill be taken from the principal prize) the
Cotmniflioners having agieed to present in re
turn a fu&citnt quantity of excellent free-flone,
tog- ther with the best adapted lots tor the hotel
and tor the out-houfes, the value of the loitery
entire may be fairly rated at fomtthing more than
par: In this important in ft a nee it will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
luve ever been offeied to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other countly. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate pofli (Tor of the ticket drawn aagainft
its number.— All the other prizes will be paid,
without deduftion>in one month ajter the di awing, by
the City Treasurer at Wafhmgton, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for tlte conveniency of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawir.g will commence on Monday the
6th of September next, at the City of Washing
ton.
Tickets niay be had of Co). WwtrDicketu City
- of d
CharieUon, South-Catolintr; Qidton Sa
vannah ; Mrffis. J pines Wcjl&Qq, Baltimore;
Peter Giimdn, Botanr; and at such other
places as will be hereafter publifhcd.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the bt ft Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, >fcilh hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other nut houses, if presented
on or bijore the 10th t>J April itext \ and a pre
ference will be £ivctt the Aruft for a Con
tra#, provided he be duly qualified to
corn pleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be erefled, will
be a coiner lot of about 90 by aqo feet, with a
back avenue to the stables, See. Sections and
eltimates of the will be expetled
with the elevations, &c. complcat ; and 50,000
dollars mufl be regarded by the Aichitefct asthe
utmost limit in the expnife inti nded lot* this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the aftairs of the City
March 6, 1793-
Stock Brokers Office,
T. No - l6 > Wall -ft reeU K* Y %ASv •
HESubfc riber intending to confine
entirely to the PURCHASE 4c SALE
STOCKS on COMMlSSlON,brgsleaveio at.
fer hijfervices to his friends and others, ir. (he
lineofa Stock Biokei. Those Who may please
to tavor him with their bufmrfs, may depend
upon having ittranfafled with the uimoft.fide
lity and dispatch.
Oiders from Philadelphia, Bofion, or any
other part of the United State*, will be (Irtflly
attended to.
The price of this Gazette is Three Doitun
pr arvv.tr.—One huij to he fmd at tit tint of jii
fct il'ing.
A LOTTERY
LIST OF PRIZES, Viz
1 Supeib Hotel, with baths, )
out boufcs, &c.&c.io cost )
1 Cath Pi zc
1 ditto
1 ditto
l ditto
2 ditto
5,000 are
i,oco
500
100
5°
2 5
20 '
10
io ditto
(t.f.)
LEONARD BLEECKF-R.
424
STATE »/ RHODE-**l-AND -nd I-nuvi
iJtNCt tfLAS! I A I IOSj.
In Central Alje*bi)% Muy oejJiM, A. IJ. 1793-
RESOLVED, Tim ao Ait puffed by ih?s
A& moiy ai the Srlfiou ... May, A. D. x 79 1 •
wnereoy Jaii* How*N,FJq. C«Mnn..nioucr ol
Loans, was icqueftcd no', to loan any Notes ol a
certain drfcriution, .ffucJ by the Gcncia! 1 rea
fjrer ol this Si aie tor Moines dm lo the Soloicrs
of ihe late Aimy, in confluence of ineir having
ben fraudulently obtain-d, and the said Cotn
imflioner was further requested lo retain said
Votes in h;s office until fucn future ordeis fnouit.
bi ihcrei'O ir.adc ( a: niight with the prin
ciples ot juftitee and tquny, be, and ihc laove is
hereby repealed, so far as regard* tbc deui.uou
of those Notes.
It it Jurther refulved, That the General J iea
furtr aqvertife n> ail me newfpapeit in th<s. Uai*-,
and in the Gazette oj the United a d- fcnp
tion of the Notes tnus fraudulently obtained,
with a caution to all peifons not to purchase
them.
Lift of Notes obtained front the Treafuty
Office by fraudulent Meafurcs, to wit :
When delivered. To whom When Amount oj
179 c. payable. payable. the ace^
Sept.2s. Sharpo Chainplin, on Jemand, 4 1 1 5
Prince Cafe do. n »8 2
Stephen Charles do. 30 9 10
John Brown do. 1214
C«far Cady do. 51 2 10
John Okry do. 43 19 11
0a.14. J"bn Reed do. 31 4 °
John Horfley do. 29 o 6
William King do. 22 19 5
16. Prince Sayles do. 38 11 10
Bristol Arnold do. 38 9 6
Caefarßolc do. 36 12 8
Cudge Cham pi in do. 40 11 40
Jack Greene do. 40 8 6
jB. Joseph Tanner do. 43 7 10
Cato Vernon do. 20 3 3
Daniel Sliarpe do. 30 11 o
Prince Randal do. 38 11 7
Joshua Dick do. ?9 19 o
William Negro do. 29 5
23. Joseph H ill do. 3y 12 c
Uenjaqiin Sprague do. 39 10 6
Peter Harris do. 38 14 2
28 Stephen Aldiich do. 22 14 o
William Mac Call do. 35 8 2
PtinceChilds do. 27 12 4
Leiceller Wheeler do. 19 2 0
Pat Hackmct do. 25 14 8
Abrahatn Smiih do. 24 14 8
John Thomas do. 41 10 2
jack Wardeu do. 3 1 o 4
John Briftoi do. 33 18 ij
Benjjmm Reed Co. 32 4 8
Cato B'lin.iUr do. 27 2 7
Naihamel Wicks do. 20 8
Be 11 oni Hatha*ay do. 36 17
Evnn Evans do. 28 7 2
Joseph Mer»y do. 32 8 7
Peio Greene do. 28 16 9
Nov. 5. Benoni Huit 00. 40 5 o
ix. Cato Brown do. 37 5 j
Africa Bark do. 27 2 9
London Siocum do. 23 8 it
Jack >7 —q-
!3. Tibbet T. Hopkins do. 41 >3 g
17. Jacob Ned do. 40 010
Bolton Wilbour do. 42 7 i Q
Tony Phillips do. 27 3 0
Ephraim Rogeis do. 623
Robert Goreham do. 41 o 10
24. Robert Howland do. 39 3 9
fames Singleton do. 21 0
J dines Cro'fs do. 35 4 6
Cato Sianly do. 21 o 10
Johtf George do. 19 19 5
John Cr-ndal do. 77 12 2
Piince Power do. *9 4 9
Benea ;6l Aaiou do. 75 10 8
Ciefar Shelderi do. ulB 7
Ccfar Wefel do. 17 17
Scioip De W*lfe do. 1914 lQ
Briflol Luther do. 18 2 o
John HufTey do. 28 11
Dec. 2. Benjamin Sweet do. 6 o 2
Silas iMawney do. 28
John Willfon do. 0 o 4
6. James Mac Spariow do. 28 16 3
u. Cato Bouife do. 6 10 2
Prime Gardner do. 7 11 o
Joseph Wrlkcv 00. iS 4 g
Cornelius Druikili do. 18 4 g
Pero F nch do. 69 7 g
Dubiiu Biiggs do. 17 4 g
Bridge Stake do. 19
Edwaid Eatterbrooks do. 10 4 1
Cuff Arnold .do. 5 10 3
Prime Clarke do. 53 j6 5
John Mc Donnal do. 12 4 -j
13. George Robbins do. 21 oij
John Moun O'arjco do. 25 19 2
Prin.e Brown do. 41 X y Xl
Solomon Mathews do. 33 5 6
Tack Si Hon do. 40 7 8
Newppit Greene do. 35 3 7
Ebcnezer Cacfar do. n 6 g
John Elliott do. 21 o 3
Reuben Thorp do. 23 o 2
Thomas Randall do. 24 11 2
Thomfes Durfee do. 22 11 6
Daniel Mammon do. 29 o
Richaril Hopkins do. 45 3 o
H< nrv Hazaid do. 2 5 3
Levi Cole <rfo. 9 4
Allen Southwoith do. 18 iq 3
Richaid Alien do, 74 jg 10
Dec. 23. William Chadfey, en drviand. 13 9 q
Ichabod Simmons no. 4 i !
John Browii <;o. 11 19
John Gavit do. ;o 16 4
William Ackman do. 42 18 c
Jack Coddingion do. 710 4
CaH.o Gaidner d--. 8 12 7
Toby Coves 00. 71 17 10
John WillfoQ do. 63 16 3
25. John Cavct do. 66 6 1
John Garhfon do. 15 3
5c,c00
25.000
20.000
15.000
10,000
10,000
ic,oco
10.000
10,000
IO.OCO
so.oeo
150,000
Dollais 3J0,000
IN OBEDIENCE 10 ihe atore rccited A& of
the General Aflemfcly, I do hereby caution ail
peifons f»o"n. receiving any of "the above men
tioned, Notes, wit-hout the inoft plenary proof
being made ihat ihey were obtained from the
office tfy gtcti&c'documents from ihc ioldur>
\v h'p- r -T)' -i - r_ ,
wfrc iiiiiuu <lu* , or ircrfn tt-eii
live » *J! dUOIUIC >,
i.tSKY S!ii RI.I'RVF,.
J*
h'eiupart, May 14. 1793.
CtNi, 1U L POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, May 27, 1793,
Dollars Reward.
WrtKRKAS a certain THOMAS Sl.OfS
GANTT, has lately made his Hc«pc
(10m Baltimore County Gaoi, to which he was
romtiiittrd under 4 ch*»j»e of having lobhcd the
-fcaltim Mill, on the sUtn day of J«mu«ry i*<t :
N'ome u creby g'-ven, that a rcwaid of five
iium.rco oojlars wjll be paid at this Office, to
any per (on or prrfon» who (hall apprcoend the
(aid Thomas 6/uf* Gautt, and citlivet hjm miu ihe
ctiftody of the ktcycr of the Lid G-01, or rata
thecuttody of cither 6t the Mirfhats within ihc
United S'aits, to that the (aid Thomas S/ofj GanU
may be ess; £*u.:ity leeored, und lorih ccmin • i,j
anf*cr tiic above tjtcn tinned cliaige.
TiWOIHY PICKERING,
Pojt-Mcjicr General.
The following ><t a defcripiiou of the above*
named Thomas Sloss Gantt ; He is about
fix feet high, lt*ait -md well made, has co
loureo haif, tied behind, fair complexion d nd
has a dewn look when spoken to.
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprietors tf 'thc under
the Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGORWCo.
BEG leav? to uitorm ihe public, (hat ihcv have
now brought their WINDOW-GLASS t«
such perfeflion, will be found, on comparison,
to be equal, in quality, to the belt London
Crown GUfj.
Haviiio fi*id their prices at a lower ratethtti
imported Glals, they are induced to believe, that
imppnai ions of this arucle'wLll be discontinued;
in proportion as their wotks are emended.—,
They propofc to tnlarge the tale of thu bufi.
ness, and as the furcefs of it Will depend on the
patriotic fupporc of the public, they beg leave 10
folic it their Incridly patronage in the pursuit of
a blanch »>iKh will imereft every lover of
American Manufactures.
All orders tor Wt xbuw-Gl ass, of any fin,
will he received at the Store of Rhodss and
Vl> cG a?go r, No. 234, Queen-ftrcet, Jicv-
Ydr'kj and at the Glals Wa-ehoufc, No. 48,
Muket-lfree!, Albany, which will be punfluaiiy
attended to. *
Ql?" WANTED, fix smart aflive LADS, not
exceeding 16 vearsof age, to he indented at
Appreni ces. and regularly inftrufied in the
variom branches of Glaf&-Making.
A!fo, ibree Wmdow-Giafj Makers, to whom
great encouragement wtll be given.
May i, i 7 y 3 .
POST-ROAD
TO THE GENESEE COUNTRY.
'T'HE v., i v lh „
X Po(l-lioad from Philadelphia to KeaoYn2,
is continued to Sunbuiyand NorlhombcriaiiW;
Thence irp the Weft Branch of the Sufquthamsh
as far as Licocntn*; thrnceto the Painted Polt
(in New-York (late, near the forks ot the Tioga)
thence to Bath (a town laid oul on the CohnQon
Branch of the Tioga) thence to Wiiliamfburg,
at the forks of Gcneftc River.
Letters for this new route will be sent from
the Philadelphia Poft-OiTice every Wednesday
morning, at eight o'clock., with the mail lor
Reading.
A weekly mail will alio be carried from
Bethlehem to Wilikcfbarre, in the county of
Lueerne.
General Pojl~Ojfice % April 6, 1793.
District of Pennsylvania, to wit.
T> E IT REiMEMSERF.D, That on
(Seal. ] diirtccnth day of March, in
/ me levcnfeenlh year of the Iridepen
v drnee of the United States of America,
Thomas Dorson, of the said Diftrift', hath dc
pofited in ihis Olfice. the Title of a Book, the
Right whereof he claims a> Pioprietor, iu the
words following, to wit,
" An inquiry hpw Jar the Punijiiment of Death
<c is nectfjary in Pe :> nfi! van *v. *?'»«/
4t Illujlrations. By WtlWam Bradford, EJq.
14 To which is aided % an Account cj the Gaol and
'• Penitentiary floufc oj Philadelphia, and of the
,f interior Managtmevt thereof. By CaieU
44 Lowncs, oj Philadelphia. IJ we enquire
44 into the Causes of all hitman Corruptions, u)e
44 Jkallfind that they ptoceed from the Impunity
44 of Crimes, and not from the Moderation oj Pu
-44 nijhments." Montefq,
In conformity to the Ast of the Congress of
the United States, intituled, 44 An A & tor the
Encouragement of Learning, bv securing the
Copies of M Jps, Chans and Books, to the Au
thors and Proprietors of such Copies, during the
Times therein mentioned."
SAMItEt CALDWELL,
Clerk ol the Diftritl of Pennfyivania,
(J3* The above work is fold in Lharlejlon fy
William Price Young; : Richmond, by Archibald
Currie : Baltimore, h\ James Tike : New-York,
by Thomas Allen : Bofion, by DavidWtfi.
Juj} puhlijhed,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At ike Sltmc HavU-, A». 4', Scuti SetonU-Slrttf,
A CASE,
Decided in the Supreme Court of the Unttep
Stated, in which is d TculTed the Question,
WHETHER A STATE IS LIABLE TO EE
SUED BY A PRIVATE CITIZEN OF
ANOTHEIi STATE ?
Fries Half * Dollar
TICKETS
In ihe FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
Mnv had at SAMUEL COOPER'S Ferry.
(£3°* Wanted to compleat fJes of this Gazette nt/«-
bers 79 and Bc—s?> pence e&ch will be paid by .the
Hditur for a few oj thpje numbers.
epiaw