'- : vi "■-■- l'■
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH F1 FTH-STREtT, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 127 of Vol. IV..]
Chief }*fi<ce J A-Y's <»
" wb&htr a j s#t% .
[con ctu.DK>.]
'"F'HS tjrtjftion nrow before ns renders. it.r(e-
A ceXitry.to pay pai'ticiilai attention ta that
p.irt of the, feft. ti(v ju^oal
p.')Wer " ?« cottrnperjio bcfwttn a and, ci~
tizenf of Anothtr jlatc." It is contended, that
tliß ooght to he construed to reach none of
theft controverlifs excepting those. in w'nicU
a nvty bs j/lai/ititf, The ordinary ri|ie»,
fir co'iftrnAion. will easily decide whether
those W3i'd: to be in li
mited feofe.
This extension of power is remedial, brcaufe
it is to fettle controversies. It is therefore
to be confli'ued liberally. It is politic, wife
and goad that, not only the controverts io
whch a state is plaintiff, but aifo those in w.hU'h
a ft'ate is defendant, should be fettled—Both ca
ses therefore are within the reafoo of the re
medy ; and ought to be so adjudged, unless
the obvious, plain and literal fenle of the
words forbid it-
If we attend tfl the words, we find them to
>e free flow &nl>i£uit)Y.apd
without room for fucli implied exceptions—
4 The judicial power oj lh< United States JhaU tx
end to controierfies betoor.en a- Jlate and citizens «J
mother Jlate." '
Jf the constitution really meant to extend
these powers only to those controverts in
which a state might be plaintijfto the exclu
lion of those in which citizen* had demands
against a state, it is inconceivable that it
flipivd have attempted to convey that mean
ing in words, not only so incompetent, hut
alio so repugnant to it—lf it meant to ex
clude a certain class of these controversies,
why were they not expressly excepted—on
the contrary not even an intimation of such
intention appears in any part of tlie coulli
tution.
it.cannot be pretended that where citizens
urge and insist upon demands again ft a state,
which the state refufes to admit and comply
with, that there is no controvcrjy between
them. If it is a controvcfy between them,
then it c early falls not only within the fpirir,
but the very word*of the Conftiution. What
is.it to the cau'e of juftiqe, smd how can-it
iiffett the definition of the word controvcrjy,
whetheT the demands which catiie thedifpute,
are made by a state again ft citizens cf another
state, or by the latter againfr the fo*meri
When power is thus extended tp a Contrcvcfjs,
it necelfar'tly, as to all judicial pwrpofes, isal
fo extended to tho.e, between wjipjn it fub
fiils.
The exception contended for, would cou
tradift and do violence to the great and lead
ing principles of a free and equal national go
vernment, ontf of the great objects of which
is, to ensure jjftice toall—To the few againfti
the many, as well as to the many against the
lew. It would be ft range, indeed, that the
joint and equal sovereigns of this country,
Ifrnuld, in the very Conftitqtion by which they
proteifed to ejlablijh jujlue, to far deviate from
the plain path of equality and impartiality, as
to give to the collective citizens of one state,
& rig it of filing individual citizens of another
state, and yet deny to thpfe citizens a right of
suing them. ♦
We find the Tame general and comprehen
sive manner of expreifing the fame ideas, in a
subsequent clause ; in which the Constitution
ordains, that * 4 in all cases aflfe&mg ambassa
dors, other public and consuls, and
tftofi in which aJlate pi>ll hi a party, the Avpreme
cdurt ihall ha\e original jurHfti&iau,"—Qid
it mean here party.plaintiff-—if that inly was
meant, it would hare been easy to have found
words to express it—Words are to be under
stood in their ordinary and common accepta
tion, and the word party being in common
usage, applicable both to plaintiff and dejcndant y
we cannot limit it to one of them in the pre
sent cafe.
AVe find the Legislature of the United
States etprefling tfeemfelves in the. like gene
ral and comprehendve manner—they speak in
the fcltion of the judicial ast, of cohrro
vqrfiej where a State is a party, and a» they
do not impliedly or exprefsty apply that term
to either of the Jitigmns, ii) particular, we
ire to underftar.d them as fpenking of both.
In tl»e fame fcftion they the cases
where Ainbaifadors are Ploivtijfs, from thole
i(i which Ambaifadors are ucjinauus, and
make dfferent provisions reloading tjiofe
caes; and it is not unnatural to luppofe.
that they would in lilce manner have diftin
jyaiflied between rales w!iere a ft te was
plain t If, and where a fta'e was defendant, if
they had intended to make any difference be
tween them ' or if tiey had apprehended
that tlie Co.'iit.tutiou had ruaoe any difference
betwcci. them.
I perceive, and therefore candor n rgps me
to mention, a circuinftance which fee ins to
favor the opposite iide of t!ie quelßon—lt is
fame fcftion of tl.c constitution
\h ch extends-the judicia' power to covtro-
T€Fjt%J between a lUte Ue citizens of
-11 ■ ■ -
Saturday, August 17, *795•
another state," does also extend that power
to con trover fa s which the Untied States,art a
puUf. HQ\\ rit may be £ud y if the <yord jt/ety
comprel ends b*«th Plaintiffand Defendant* it
to)lows, that the United Staus may be fifed
by any citizen, between whom and them tli#re
may he a c&tttroverf\. This appears to me to
be fair repfoqing—But the fame pnnciph * of
candor which tr ge me to meption th-s objec
tion, also me to lugmrft an important
diiTerende betu een tl.ie two cafe?—it is this—■
In ail cafe* of ftions ag&mft flare's or indivi
dual citizens, the National Courts are Tup
potted in all their and co»,ftttiutiowal
proceedings and judsmputs v by the auu of'the, ;
executiye power of the United
I in cases of,actions against the United Stares,
there is no power wh.ch the courts can call
to their aid. From this diftin&ion important
conelufiufts are deducible, and tbs-y place
thecafe-of a State, and the case-as the United
States, in v?ry diifcreiat points of view.
I wifli the fiate of society was so far iinpro-,
ved, and thi it-cnce of government advanced
! toTucli a degree of perfection, a\ that the
whole nation could in the peaceable conrfe of
law, be compellable to do justice, ?,nd be.iucd
by individual citizens— Whether that is, or is
not, now the cafe, ought not to be thus cwf* ,
tcrally and incidental}" decided—l leave it a
question.
As this opinion, though deliberately foinjed,
; has been hastily reduced to writing between
the intervals of the daily adjournments, and
while my mind was occupied and w«*aritd by
the bulyiefs of the day, 1 lea*, it is Itfs con
cil'e and connefied than it might other wife
have been. I have made no to
cases, bfecaiife 1 know of none that are not
diftttiguilh'able from this cafe Jrtqrdoesit ap
pear to me neceflary to shew that the lentir
njents of the belt writers on government and
the rights ojf men, harmonize with the prin*
ciples which'di reft my judgment on the pre
feht question. The ads of the former Con
grefles, and the ads of'many of the State
Conventions, are replete with similar ideas;
and to the honor of ilie United States, it may
be cb/erved, tfyvt in no other country are
this kind better, if so under
ftojd. The attention and attachment of the
Cohftitutioii to the equal rights of the 'people
aredifeernable in almost every fen tehee of
it ; and it is to be regretted that the proVi
sion in it which we have been cotliJering, has
not in every inflance received the approba
tion a,id acquie-fcence which it merits.—
Georgia has in ftfong language advocated the
cause of republican equality ; and there is
reason to hope that the people of that state
will yet perceive that it would not have been
confident with that equality, to have ex
empted th«f body of her citizens from that
fuabilitv which they are at this moment ex
ercising a gain 11 citizens of another state.
For my own part, I am convinced that the
sense in which I understand and have explain
ed the words controvbrfies between a state
and citizens of another state," is the true
sense. The extension of the judiciary pow
er of the United States to fiich cor.troverges,
appears tome to bc wife, because it is
and. becau e it is ujfcfu/.
It is horttft, becau (e it provides for doing
justice without refpeefc of perfonx, and by se
curing individual citizens as well as Sfates, in
their refpeftive rights, performs the proqiifp
which every free government makes to eve
ry free citizen, of equal justice and pro
tection.
It is ufeful —because it is honest—because it
leaves not even the most obscure ard friend-
Jess citizen without the means of obtaining
justice from a neighboring state—because it
obviates occ: si >ns of quarrels between States
on account ot the claims of their refpedlive
citizens—becanfe it recognizes and strongly
rests on this great moral truth, that justice is
the lame whether ciue from one man to a mil
liqn, or from a million to one man—because
it teaches and greatly appreciates the value
of our free republican national government,
which placfes all our citizens on an equal
footing, and enables each and every of them
to obtain justice without any danger of being
overborne by the weight and number of their
opponents—and because it brings into action,
and enforces this great and gjorious principle,
that the people are the sovereigns of this
country, and consequently that fellow-citi
zens and joint fovei e gns cannot be degraded
by appearing with each other in their own
Courts to have their controversies deffcritil
ned. The people have reafoa to prize and re
joice in such valuable privileges ; and they
ought not to forger, that nothing but the fee
course of constitutional law and government
can enfuve the continuance and ei j >yment
of th.ejn
For the reasons before gjyen, 1 am clesHy
of opinio;], that a ftaie is fumble by citizens
of another ft ate ; but left I flionld be under.
Hood in a latitude beyond my meaning, I thiok
it necefljry to f'ubj >in this caution, viz. T hat
fnch fuabi iry may neverthcleft not expend to
all d.rn anils, and to every kind of adionp»
there may-be exceptions—-for inftince—-I am
far from biing prepared to fay that an indi
505
vidua! may sue a state 011 Mill of credit ifftied
betfore*rtt* xwtrftittrtiim wtV eftublifked, and
whiclj Sjyt <ij&fed.and re.cejjifd 011 .rtie t:iit •?
iot'tTic flate,'V<jd at i* ije .«Jca < ir
'excitation of judicial
tertained or cußtemplaled.
From the New-York DAILY ADV t RTISLR,
IT is that rl:e fpi
ritofjealoufy, and fa&iun, winch fticwed
itfelf uerptofoWJwith ilie greatest caution ai d
wjjfc decency, jsifC? the arrival .of the frerch
-Aiiihafjiador hash oke out,with voltan'C fury,
threatening the President, the Secretary ofthe.
"Treaftjry, a-nd other officers, hi its way; in
Qu>i t,.thc fiweinjwont.itielJ", with anniitilp
. tion.' she ilmoft eachifive con
nexion M'. Sepet, jt i vf.tjd, has (wined, wiih
■ certain defigliinp, reftlcfs and emb'itious men,
to the foiithward, has induced a rational Us-
independent o t'other ciicumftance c , that
ycitlisrthe £mich Amba(li<!or.has bejome die
" d«f» <>f a pai fyj, or that lie meditates thioiigji
it, figainfV Ajnerica, fnme deligns a* yet nnpe-
netrated—rrjiptf w>acco\inr&fc!e. lkc#iiie we
cannot fee a-fjngle ajJy.anYagj? to lie. prppofeAi
either to kiij;felf. flt the people who feut birn
h»re—-by alienating the regards of map tepfhs
| of a fcotnnAinitv, who, unmindful of their citn
j interir.il diffentioirs, have uniformly, ard at
f the present moment ate teftifviugtl.cij regaid,
■ t6 tjie; cajife of liis ctfijntiy, tjy. e««ry
! fion of enthufiaflic attachment —Some niftn
j have certain predprtiinsint natural propeufi
1 ties, which will difcoter themselves in every
fttuation they can tje placed.
j : AttnoU Is (aid: to haye been always a.difim.
j joflcfjiiiTg, tJiefe |>fo|ieuij|i«fs.
| he. hH and would, l}3yp. Ajcrj-.
| ficedTfiis Jellnvy foldifrs and countrymen.—
J tfwfttgjji & man of great abilities,
J was khAw<i rob»tl*4ittite of iworalcbatsfte'-,
j and? tfceret'jire tnVftTdr with. difliclcnce. His
j pr«A)p*ijiant ifeifAs all hjs gl»rj'r~in,
; a'(tempting toV.tray. to the flefpots o(^> ope;
•> the liberties of his fellow citizens—aad thus,
! other men, not engaged ih cabals anr! intrigue,
i are ai fiftoivt'of the water.
It fs supposed the following proportions do
in reality form the political bib/c of every ho
ne ft and unparty influenced inhabitant ji)k the
United States.
». That a state of war, internal, or exter
nal, is a state of ti> becoiirt
cdr-»hut always to be avoided, -unless induced
by the ahfol.ute, neceisty offefy
2. That Americans, under tlieir exifling
constitutions, are the mort happy, free, en
lightened, and pfofperous people on the fare
of the cajth.
That such being thp : r situation, it is their
duty and iptereft to abftajn from wars, hoth
foreign and domestic—to ma.intain and culti
vate the blefljngs of peace with all the world—
and especially, by the most cit curafpetf, wife
and prudent tonduft so to as by oblei vjrg
an impartial neqtrality, with refpeft to the
present belligerent powers of Europe, not to
be drawn into the vortex of their politics.
4. That it is to the honor and advantage of
alt governments, and especially of the United
States of America, as being the youngett on
the lift of nations, to perpetuate the glory they
acquired in the eftahliftiiaent of independence,
by the faithful observance of public treaties.
5. That it would most probably be 0111 best
policy, I ke the Chinese, to have no treaties,
or stipulated communication with the mrtijr*ns
feparated from us by oceans, but those 'which
fhonld naturally a rile out of commerce, the
arts, and sciences.
6. That as in the federal government, all
lawful authority is vested in, and can tberefoie
only be ejcerciJecj! in, by and thrp' the House
of llepreientatiyes, Senate and Frefident, all
a&s of the people, in their individual capaci
ties, alfuming legifljtive, judicial, or execu
tive powers, are incompatible with the autho
rity constitutionally and freely inveftefl, by
them, in their rcprefentatives : And are null
and vo'd.
7. That Americans being a considerate and
wife people—whenever they discover defici
ency in the.r IVlagiftrates, Jaws, or constitu
tion, thev ought to seek red'efs and amend
ment, in a peaceable way, by solicitude and
perseverance, tempered bypiudenc£.
8. That it i$ the undoubted right of the
Citizen, upon a supposed i'jury, to think,
speak, deliberate, petition, address and *e
monftrate.
Thar frequent and free eleiftion-ywhen uu
rtflv&ed by bribery and corruption, and unin
fluenced by party, and the intrigues of artful
and designing individual,are the greateitand
certain fecu» itics again ft the mvafion of our
liberties, by the iervants of the public, and
others—and therefore to be guarded
and maintained inviolate.
9- That having a government, andnfficers
of tNargovernmetit, who are by the known
laws"of tlit larwl rttpcmfibte for their coudufl,
wliilft t!ie one exists, and the other* are in
office, they oußht tobe fupported—thevought
not to he inTulted: But when guilty ofcr'mei
or mifdenieanors, relied, tried, adjured
[Whole No. 449.3
and thax pticpo-Te
coniiituti'mfllly .
23. That our - w fV'xeo V,
V A SHIN-T i"0>«, ; n.i;' v r f C: 'c .■
elected General of the Anuesof the United
States of* America, by r:ie irian ir.ous 'utf-Vages
of o>np,refsv 'in the litre cd iff eft so. Fretdcm
with the Vernluent of 'Gtval •Britain, having,
conducted himfelf during that, h nf;, eventful
and bloody war,. utexsmp'co si Piref*.
difinteieited pstr'utifm-<ti>d va'ourj jrerHapa
unexcteded in the'annals of hav
ing, Ciocinnatus like, returned victorious over •
his enemies to the plow; having aj»%ir Hr. j n
called out by she unanimous wifli of his fellow
cit iz-ns, to ac cept the chief executive of otii'
exteuuve and complicated repuhl c ; and hav
ing in 'thin capacity, amidfi rl.e clamours of
discordant parties, condwvrcd the pqblip weal
kaft impeachgient'of his political
integrity, uriteis it is by the aqonymous (hafts
of a tc-w fjtftjAn?, envious, and ambitious
T atforS, who f »reve» exist in ei?ry commu
nity——Me Kdut'tiedl to the molt gritcful aflcc
tio: am ffcppovt '.fall hh countr> men.
ir. That the the United States
" e freeand independent. * T'at {hey arc c i
pnb!;*, *nd have the Trie right to judge a: d
determine M v tfe cfr'ntfurfr of ifU thc-i; public
orficer*.
12. That any attempt by foreigners, in
whatever character they aj>pt*a', Ml the fmall
eit degree to interfere wiih t'.e h»cal politics
or parties of our country, or to i'nlult the Ex
ecutive Authority of the Federal, or any of
the Sr-afe governments, is an immediate in Pule
to thePe governments, as well as the governed;
and ougjit to be treated with the Contempt
and prompt chaftiffempnt due front all sove
reign nations to the authors offuch temei ity.'
13. Th<i! the AmhoiTadot tiom France his
her y a* tbr to ihe ve
of our govcinsmnt. wliich ; re reported, and is
inveigling, or is invcigl d, into any ot ihe "re
vailing partus in our countiv, he mull crrtainlv
b-e r.£luated by iinompei motives—must lose all
nftlulnefs 10 I s, or his constituents—must be a
dangerous nun-*-oiij»ht 10 he fhunn. d as P.fti-
Icntial.— at><l ought to be returned fiom whence
he came, with .ail ihe expedition conliltciU With
•he ufagc ol nat ons.
14. TJ>at buying undr« flood from this Air
bafladoi's own dec t# ration,,that the Republic of
Fiance does not with us 10 take a part in ,tlie
prrf nt vftir with. the of E»fOf>e —and
finding at the fame time that this
(news a difpofmon to aid and inflame ihe fpi.fi,t
of dilcord exiftiup Union—and all th'S at
a time when, however we ditfer about our own
inUnicipal in crt-fts,.there isurn-qmvocsl • nd dai
ly te ftimpnv gjven, of oijr bfcing united in alnioii,
a frantic paitiality to the cau'c of his country
men. I fay, We tiave but one °f two condufi
oi.s to draw from this condufl, viz. Either that
the French, ha ye fpme unhappy djrfign upon our.
country ; or that this inconPillencv avifes front
the weakness, misjudged and unamhorifcd poli
cy, or naturally unfortunate propensity in the
individual for intrigue and The firft
fe.ems impofijible, the latter is moil probable.
15. Thai until thffc things are cleared tin. or
better understood, it is pr» mature to addiefsthe
French Republic, thro J this Ambaflador, and'
w ill be derogatory .to the honor of the United
States.
16. That the late proclamation of the Prefi-,
dent to the citiz.ns of the United State*. to oij
ferve a ftri& neutrality, See. w,i> another inftanre
of his watchiul and paiernal attention for the
true intends and happinefi ot his fellbw citi
zens.
That this proclamation was r.nt an ast of I>-
giflation, 'hat u v>(zs meant tor, and couJd pofli
biy amount to no than ,a friendly monition
to all, and cfpeciallv to those, who, being influ
enced by extravagant attachment to the French,
or prompted by inordinate profpr&s of g-Mn,
would, regardjefc of the general advantage and
felicity of rhc commonwealth, have covered tjie
ocean with American privateers—and led us
headlong, with all our fins and debts upon our
backs, into an unprofitable and ruinous war
with England, Spain, Portugal, and Holland.
17- Thai though 11 could have made no eifin
tial difference oihei wife—it would, poflibly—-
have cafid the minds of a few weak, or have
flopped the mouths of a tew designing reft left
men—if the President in his proclamation had
adverted to the treaties wi:h France and other
nations.
18. TH.v from the uiiiformlv patriotic conduct
of ihe Prcfidcnt of the United States— We have
not ihe leail reason lo fufptft that errr he has
or will knowingly pursue mrafurcs, either in »
public or private rc fyetf, injurious to his country
— That he has Dot nian'.fcffed, in any instance, a
want of attachment to the Republic—
but upon every proper occasion which has oc
curred, the veiv revets. ——rhat the fame will be
thi coudutt ol Coiigrefn, when convened—That
we ought to love Gt n. Washington, and do love
him — And any man who dares to in full, or re
port evil of him, mud be a had man, and ought
to meet with chaUtfemrnt and contempt from
evcrv freeman of Ame»ica, who wifljes a conti
nuation of the blessings of prosperity and peace.
The refill ue refpe&mg the violation of trefty
by the convention—in the next, from
Your Ftliow-Cifitcn,
Wm. WIJ.LCOCKS.
h 7 en)-Y(,rh % Jugijl 1733.PHILADELPHIA.
The following Letter hut Iten trnnfmitted by
the Secretary of the Treasury to the Col
!eßots of the different ports in the United
State:.
CIRCULAR to the Com*sctohs of
the Customs.
Philadelphia, Augufl 4th, 1.793'
Sir,
T aoffcaring that repealed contravene
I tions of oui neutrality have taken
place in the ports of the United Stales,
without having been discovered in time
for prevention or remedy, I have it in
command(rcju ihfi J'refident, to address
to the collcftor6 of the refpe£tive difttipls
a particulai inllruftion on thefubjeft.
It is expected, that the officers of the
cuftomsin each diftritt,will in thecourfe of
their official functions have a vigilant eye
Upon whatever may be passing within the
ports,haibours^rceks,inlets and waters of
fuch-diftriA, of a nature tp contravene
thet'wsof neutrality, and upon discove
ry of any thing of the kind will give im.
mediate notice W the governor of the
late and to the attorney of the judicia
iiftrid, comprehending the dittiift o
he cuftflms within which any such con
ravqntion (nay happen. *
l*o afiift the judgment of the officeis
in thi* head, I transmit herewith a
fchedulf.of rules, concerning lundty par
ticulars, which Toavr been adopted by the
President. »s dedyttious from the laws of
neutrality, eftabliftled and received among
nation*- Whatever (hall be contrary to
these rules will, of course, be to be noti
fied,.. as abovementiontd.
There are fume other points, which,
purfoant to oilr treaties and the determi
nations of the executive, I ought to no
tice to yoB.
If- any vessel of either of the powers at
war toithFrance (hould bring or fendwith
in your diltrid a prize made of the fub
je£b, people of property of France, it is
immediately to be notified to the Govern
or of the (late, in order that meafuics
may be taken, pursuant to the 17th arti
cle of our treaty with France, to dblige
such vcfl'el and her prize, or such prize
when sent in without the capturing ves
sel, to depart. |
No privateer of any of the powers at
war with France, coming within a diilritt
of the United States, can, by the 23d
article of our treaty with France, enjoy
any Other privilege than that ofpurchafing
I"tub viduals as Jhallbe Aeceffary for her go
ing to tie next port of the prince otflat'efrom
•which fht bat her commtjfion. If lhe should
do any thing bcfide this, it is immedi
ately to he reported to the governor and
the attorney of the diilrift. You willob
ferve by the rules transmitted, that the
term privateer is underltood not to extend
to veifJs aimed for merchandize and war,
commonly called with us letters of marque,
nor, of course, to vefiicls of war i» the im.
mediate Service of the government of ei
thei ot th« powers at war.
No armed, veifelwhich has bern or (hall
be originally fitted out 111 any port of the
United States by either of the .parties at
war is henceforth to have afyltim in any
diftri& of the United States. If any
such armed vtffcl lhallappear within your
dilliift, (he is immediately to be notified
to the governor and attorney of the dif
tfiHj which isalfo to be done, in refpeft
to any prize, that such armed vessel (hall
bring fend in. At foot is a lift of such
Armed vcffcls of the above description as
have hitherto come to the knowledge of
the executive.
The pu<chafing within, and export
ing from, ihe United Stales, ly ivay of
merchandize, articles commonly called
contiaband (being generally, wailike in
ftruraeuts and military stores) is free to
all the parties at war, and is not to, be in
terfered with. If our own citizens an*
dertake to carry them to any of those
partie«, they will be abandoned to the
penalties which the laws of warauthorife.
You will be particularly careful to ob
serve, and to notifyas dire&ed in other
instances, the cafe of any citizen of the
United States, who shall be found in the
service of' either of the parties at war.
In cafe any vefiel (hall be found in the
ast of contravening any of the rules or
principles which are the ground of this
inftruftion, (he is to be refufed a clear
ance until (he (hall have complied with
what the governor (hall have decided in
reference to her. Cave, however, is to
be taken in this, notunneceflarily or un
reasonably to euibauais trade or to vex
soy of the pvtiesconcrtwd.
In order ih«t contraventions may be the
betttr afcertaiued, it is de fired that the
officer who (hall firft go on board any ves
sel arriving within your diftriA (hall make
an accurate furry of her then condition,
as to miiiiary equipment, to be forthwith
repotted to yon, and that prior to her
clearance a like fumy be made, that any
tranfgrelfion of the rules laid down maju
be afcettained.
But as the propriety-os any such >n
fpe&ion of a vejfel of war in the immediate s
service of the government of a foreign nati
on is not without queltion in refettnee to
the usage of nations, no attempt is to be
made to infpeA any such veffeltill further
order on the point.
The President desires tjie to fignify *o
you his mod particular expectation that,
the inftruftion contained in this Jitter
will be executed with the greatest vigil
ance, 3&ivity, care and impartiality. O
missions will tend to expose the govern,
ment to injurious imputations and suspi
cions, and proportionably to commit the
good faith and peace of the country ; ob
jects of too much importance not to en
gage every proper exertion of your zeal.
With consideration,, I am, Sir, i
Your obedient servant,
RULES adopted ly the President of the
United States, ■ ■
I. Tlje original arming and equipping
of veflcls in the ports of the United States
by any of the belligerent parties, for mil
itary service, offertfive or is
deemed unlawful. j \
11. Equipments of merchant reffels by
either of thebelligerent parties in the poits
of the United States, purely-for the ac
commodation of them, as such, is deemed
lawful.
111. Equipments in tbe ports of the
United Statesof vessels of waT in the im
mediate service of the government of any
of the belligerent patties, which if done
to other vessels woDld be of a doubtful na
ture, as being applicable either to com
merce or war, are deemed lawful ; except
those which (hall have made prize of the
fubjefts, people or property of France,
coming wjch their prizes into the ports
of the United Stages, pursuant to the se
venteenth article of our treaty of amity
and commerce with France.
IV. Equipments in the ports of the
United States, by any of the parties at
war with France, of vessels fitted for mer
chandize and wac whether with or with
out commissions, which are doubtful in
their nature, as being applicable either to
commerce or war, are deemed lawful; ex
cept those which (hall have made prize of
the fubje&s, peopleor property of France,
coming with their prizes into the potts
of the United States, pursuant to the se
venteenth article •of our treaty of amity
and commerce with France.
V. Equipments of any of the veffelsof
France, in the ports of the United States,
which are doubtful in their natiiie, as be
ng applicable to commerce or war,
deemed lawful.
VI. Equipments of every kind in the
ports of the United States, of privateers of
the powers at war with France, are deem
ed unlawful.
VII. Ecu/ipmbnts of veffek in the
ports of the United States, which are of
i nature solely adapted to war, are deem
ed unlawfulexcept those (tranded or
wrccked, as mentioned in the eighteenth
at ticle of our treaty with France, the fix
t«enlh of our treaty with the United Ne
therlands, the ninth of our treaty with
Prussia ; and except those mentioned in
the nineteenth article of our treaty with
France, the seventeenth of our treaty
with the United Netherlands, the eigh
teenth of our treaty with Ptufiia.
VIII. Vessels of either of the parties
not armed, or armed previous to their
coming into the ports of the United States
which shall not have infringed any of (he
foregoing rules, may lawfully engage or
inlift therein their own fubjefts or citi
zens, not being inhabitants of the United
States; except privateers of the powers
at war with France, and except those
vessels which shall have made prize of the
fubje£ts, people or property of France,,
coming with their prizes into the ports
of the United States, pursuant to the
seventeenth article of our treaty of amity
and commerce with France.
Lijl oj Prwatce'"J refer red to in the Circular Lellcr
to the CoticCiert oj the i ujims.
Crtrze- Cent!, 1
Sam tulottei, > Fitted qui at Churl, Jen,
Vaivqueur dc }iajtillr, \
Petit Democrat, Philadelphia,
i/eJauare.
506
Foreign Intelligence.
VIENNA, May it.
THE lute Hungarian Diet have
granted to his Msjelty jooc
recruit*, to complete ihe national !
regiments, and 3000 more being
wanted, the States have given or
ders to raise them without delay.
The-remaining troops in Hunga
ry;Wth Infantry and cavalry, have
also been sent off to the army of
reftrve in Upper Austria ; and those
in TranfyJvania are also on their
under the command of Ge
nertl HeydendorfF.
Last Sunday a considerable quan
tity of atnmuniiion and Wrlike im
plements were dispatched from this
metropolis to the frontiers, besides
ajfuin of 4,000,000 of florins, all in
silver specie, put up in cherts, and
carried by forty waggons.
From the lifts given, it appears
tliafc:there are ft ill 4100 persons of
sexes in captivity among the
Turks, by whom they were taken
during the campaigns of 1788, 89,
and 90. The Porte has b6en una
ble to restore them, since they have
been fold, as slaves to owners un
known, and perhaps at an iromenfe
dlftance from the Turkifli capital.
His majesty has afligned the fund of
the suppressed order of Trinitarians
to the redemption of those unfortu
nate peopfe.
MARSEILLES, June iB.
M M. Savon, two brothers, who
hi*d for a longtime krpt.tbe guillo
tine in atftion in this city, have been
condemned to death in their turn,
by the new ami Jacobin Tribunal,
and were guillotined the day before
yesterday (the 16th) at tour in the
afternoon', amid ft an inimenfecrowd
of fpedators.
conliderable number of per
sons have been apprehended at Aix,
in ctinfequenee, as is laid, of the
dying confelfions of these brothers.
Among the prisoners is a Magistrate.
The Central Committee lormed
at Savon, of the deputies of the dif
ferent clußi of the department, lias
juli beert dilFolved by an order of
the department itfelf.
The Setfions of this city have just
announced the discovery of a great
conspiracy, and their intention to
putTue its authors. Philippe Ega
liteismore firstly confined than
ever in the Tower of Fort St. Jean.
— Hi* Trial goes on unremittingly.
United States.
PORTLAND, (Mafl:) Aug. 3.
Sea Moniter.
Capt. Crabtree. who lately arriv
ed at Frenchman's bay, and now in
tKis- town, givei the following ex
traordinary account of a fea-ferpenc,
the authenticity of which may be
dependended on :—
" On the 20th of June last, being
on ipy pallage from the Weft Indies,
in the morning, having jnft made
Mount-Defart island, dillant nearly
ten leagues, 1 suddenly got fight of
a Serpent of an enormous fize,fwim
mjng on t'he furface of the ocean,
elevated about fix or eight
feet put of ,water, rather prone for
ward. That, part of the body.which
was cut of water, 1 judged to be a
bout the size of a bar tel in circum
ference, but the head larger, having
some refenrhlance of a borfe's. Ac
cording to the molt accurate com
putation which 1 made ill my mind,
of his length, I think it could not
be less than from S5 to 60fse t, and
perhaps longer. That part of the
body which was not elevated, but
of which I had a diftindt view seve
ral times, was larger than the part
o'iit r of water. The body of a dark
browji. 1 was within two bundled
yards of it near an hour j during
whtch time, as it discovered 110 in
clillation toinioleft us, nij felf and
the whole crew obfecved it with the
minuted attention ; nor was its at
tentiou less fixed on us. '1 he eve
was perfectly black, (hai.p, ai.d
piercing. 1 »as so near as !■> <ih
ferve cleaily that there were no fins
or external appendages >0 t.l»e bcjH v ;
l>ut that its motion was by the h
itig.nfihe bodv, like ti lv«i f<»rp
Duiing the tii.ie it was a l.ii ii f e .
vera! flocks of birds flew neat,* !>:V»
it eyed very narrowly. ] obtervta
in it thegreatclt agility and quick
ncls of motion."
There is no doubt but this is one
of the two which have been seen in
tliefe pans. 11 accounts ngrtc ic
fpe<?ting their size and appearance.
Two of them (.perhaps tiie Ifanie)
were once seen.on the (hore aj' the
Cranberry ifl.tnds, but immediately
took to the water on being dilcover
ed. . These are the fMI ever seen »
iu our seas, that *e have any ac
count of, though they have been
seen on the coait of Norway, tnoie
than 100 feet in length.
At a general meeting of ihe citf
zens of Portland, an' tUe 99; h day
of July, Capt. Nathaniel Cell ing
was chosen chairman ; and at an
adjournment on the following day,
the late Proclamation of the jPieii
dent of the United States, declaring
their neutrality in the prelent Eu
ropean war, was taken into conli
deration, and thereupon".
Voted, That the actual tranquili
ty, peace and prosperity of the
United States, are blelfiugs of tUe
highest «>ider, and thai the p*efer
vatiorrof them it efien:ial to the
happiuefs of the present and future
generations.
Voted, That the interference of
any of our fellow-citizens ia the
present European war, would be no
less criminal to the public £ od,
than the private motives of 'f'"H
robbery and rapine aie immoral,
unsocial and detestable.
Voted, That we highly approve
and will ftriiSly eblerve the late
proclamation of the President ofthe
United States, declaring that their
duty and interest require a friendly
and impartial conduct towards all
the belligerent powers.
That in addition to the regulati
on of our own conduifi on t his im
portant occasion, we will kee'p an
eye on that of any deluded citizens
or persons, whn may so far abandon -
their duty and common good
(as defined in the constitution, trea
ties and laws of the Uniied States)
as to intermeddle in the war on any
pretence whatever—and will nfie
our best endeavors that their de
signs may be defeated, and their
offences puniflied according to their
demerit.
Voted, That these proceed!ngs
be printed ; that a copy of them be
tranfinitted to our fellow-citizens
of of Bolton, in return for
their iimilar communication.
By order of the Citizens of Port*
land. Sa. Waldo, SecVy.
PROVIDENCE, August 3.
Saturday last arrived at Newport
the Briiilh fliip Catharine, William
James Davis, matter, mounting 4
Iron Guns, and some of Wood,—
She was bound from Jamaica to
New York, with freight, and a
number of passengers ; bnt falling
in with a Britifb frigate off Sandy-
Hook, and learning that the French
Frigate Ambuscade was at New-
York, Davis thought proper to bear
away for Newport. The passengers
inform, that some time previous to
their speaking the- Biirith frigate,
they fell in with an American ves
sel, bound from Cape-Francois to
Baltimore, having on board Ijo
French paflengers, tind that front
this vefl'el Davis took two bags of
money, said to contain between 6
and 7000 dollars, foppofing it to be
French property. As he was noc
provided with a Commiflion, bis
condutft became a fubjeft of conver
faiion at Newport—and fearing he
flinuld be IVppped, on Wednesday
night he flipt his cables, and put to
sea, leaving the passengers alhore
one of whom had freight on board
to a large amount.
A ■m-'tler in the Netupnrt Mercury afkt
the fcl/ctviug queries in relation tt
the firegoihg nefarious tranfattion.
" W'liy was trot a guard put on
board the fj>ip, if the Captain could
not be arretted rill the examination
was finifherl ?—Or, why vas hit
word deemed fiiffu iem lor his ap
pearance ? I addrtfs nijftlf ta the
gentlemen of the law. Was he
bailable in law,- at the litre he was
frffered- to appear at largt > Why
was the examination so lengthy, viz,
from three to eight o'clock ! Why,as tlie warrant was then made out,
was it no( served upon him, either
in the town where he then was, or
or afterwards on board the (hip ?
and iaftly—Why was he not pursu
ed, when it was evident a pursuit
mult have been iuccefsful —i liefe
are queitions, it is proper /hould be
anlWred. Whoever does it, clear
ly find fatisfa«. f torily, lhall receive
my sincere thanks. Speaking truth,
he shall be iupported j and judging
with candor, he will be applauded.
Thait there has been foine mifcon
duc!i, is evident ; but a public ex
planation only can determiue, upon
whom the blame ought to relt.
i PUiJLiCOLA.
B O S T O N,
front Lynn, July 29.
At a meeting of n refpet'table num
ber ot the citizens of the town of
Lynn: convened by notification, in
conffrquense of a circular Letter from
the citizens ot Boftun, the following
rdoluiiQns paiied unanimous
Jy, viz.
Refolvea, I.—That the late Pro
clamation of the Supreme Executive
of the United States, enjoining
Neutrality on all the citizens
thereof, towards the Belligerent
powers in Europe, is highly impor
tant to the interest and bappiuefs
of our conntry, and that we will" to
the uimoft of our abilities, prefer»e
it inviolate.
Refolded, ll—That we conceive
the late fpiriied refoiutions of our
brethren of the metropolis, " adapt
ed to promote the public good j'f
that we will give them our hearty
concurrence by our utmost exerti
ons to btingtocondign punishment,
every individual, who (hall be guil
ty of a breach of Neutrality.
Vo'ed.—That the above refoluti
oirs be pointed in the Columbian
Centinel.
JAMES ROBINSON, Sec'ry.
NEW LONDON, August 8.
Tuesday last arrived here the
schooner Seaflower, Capt. j. Hurl
but, 16 dajs from Point-Petre, Gau
daloiipe, who relates the following
occurrence, which took place at the
Point on the 10th ult.—A dispute,
in cocft quence of a game at cards,
arising be'ween foine Ariltocrats,
who v ere in prison, the ceutinel at
the door commanded them to be
q'tiet, ii being his orders to prevent
any dilt urban re among them ; but
instead of judiciously complying
wj h this reafbnable demand, one
of theni ftized the mulket and for
ced it from the ceutinel, and gave
him abusive language ; one more
moderate, however, immediately
returned the gun. The centinel
after heing relieved informed so me
fiilors of whathad taken place, and
» large number soon colle<sied, seiz
ed two field pieces, whieh they pla
ced oppofiie to the building where
the Municipaliiy were then fitting,
a party then proceeded to the pri
foH, which they forced, and cut of
the heads of seven planters and a
pbyfician, sparing only the one
who had returned the gun. During
this time the general* was beat, and
the folaiers were immediately pa
raded ; but on being ordered to
march no one obeyed, fearing to
attack the sailors who were in great
force, a number of armed veflels be
ing at that time in the harbor.—
Happily no further violence was
committed.
NEW-YORK, Augnft 12.
Tht jotloivhig Speech vijs delivertd by
General GiLHAvn, to the crew of
the JpriTER, on Saturday, the 10ti
tj Atiguj}, 179 j.
Frit nds and Brother^
m The man that is capaUe ofhetray
»ng his count)' is unworthy to assist
" 'j"; of libevy and equality.
(iiizpoi, It you fui'poct me of so
neinoi!* b crime, yop Jboiiid be the
firlt io prevent the presence of a
trsiitor difgraciiig ibis augnft feaft.
Your fileitce convinces me' that you
render me the justice that 1 deserve
of you, you know that the iflue of
fcn event fhoijld not criminate a man,
only ihe iuieniions by which he
guided : you know that on the
unfortunate aoth and jr« June, the
love of the country alone dictated
®y xSioiw, as 1 only wished co de
ot - liomnigo kftnn the power
ot two men, w[uit<e ciime;-ate be
yond conip»rifoii t you know that 1
yielded to ypnr owp heartfelt indiT
nation, which would not-pcrjn itymr
to hear an,y longer the triumphs of
the etiemies of liberty, and equality.
Exulting in an approving conlci
ence, which will.a| ways rife superi
or to the judgment of men ; view
ing around ine brethren, friends
who will not be enraged at tny of
fering them the language truth>
■ who will jjfver dehafe themselves
so moth as to . flatter triumphant
vice : It is, J fay, itj beholding the
true friends of liberty that 1 iorget
the persecutions I now fufFer urideri
is in partaking of
ra 'j°>» that 1 now pronounce ;the
oath which is deeply engraven on
my republican heart, •. « !
I swear, that I will be faithful to
the republic, that I will inaintalin
liberty and ;equaftty, and if ever
the republic again employs me, that
I will die rather than abandon my
pest- GALBAUD.
August 2-
August 13
MeflVs. Printers, , . .
Certain late publications render it proper
for us to authorise you to inform the Public,
that a report having reached "this city from
Philadelphia, that Mr. Genet, the French
Minister, said lie would appeal to the people
from < ertain deeifions of .the. President; we
were aiked, 011 our retu/n from thut place,
whether be had made fflch a declaration, we
answered, that he had, and we also men
tinned it to others, authorifmg them to faj 1
that we had so informed them. _ , ,
BALTIMORE, August 9.
We have ju(! learnt, that the in
habitants of Cam bridge on the East
ern (hore, have forwarded to the !
committee of.correfpondence a very
liberal fuofcription through the,
hands of Mr. Murray, representative
to Congrefi, towards the relief of
the fufferers from Cape-Francois ;
and what adds greatly to the vajue :
of the donation, is the manner in
which it was conveyed :■ ■" W-e
would have been better pleased,
(they observe through Mr. Murray)
were the funi larger which we fettd
—accept it, small as it is, a&. fonsf
testimony from the citizens in and
about Cambridge of their fym paihy '
and good wishes in a business so tru
ly diftrefsful to the French, and so
very oppressive to our fellow-citizens
of Baltimore." Such sympathy for
distress, while it does honor to the
human character, refledis lustre oh
he state of Maryland -—
Philadelphia, Aug. 14.
By the brig Molly, Capt. Morris, arrived
here from Madeira, which /he left the Bth ps
July, we learn, that on the Jd of that month
a frigate arrived at Madeira in nine days from
Falmouth, which brought"Eiiglilh newspapers
to about. the 2.} f b of June. These papers
contained an account of a very bloody battle
having been fought near Lisle between the
combined armies and the French forces,
which terminated to the advantage of tb*
French ; and it is added that 17,000 men fell
in the combat.
Capt. Morris fays that this account was
believed at Madeira, and that he had con
verted with several persons who had leen the
papers containing tbe above intelligence.
We have seen a letter from Madeira of the
4th July, froai Mr. Pintard, our Consul
there, which fays that there was nothing new
in that place.
The Engliflt Brig Nancy, Capt. Btrrf,
from Jamaica to (his port, was c2f «n
Monday lafl by the Democrat and Canmaf
note and sent into New-York i the Britifll
floap Hope, Itidiardftli/froni Antigua, prizt
to the citizen Genet, and a (mall Spanish stoop
from New-Orleans,prize to the Democrat, are
arrived here.
There is an account in town of the a ri
val of a SpaniJh fquadmn at Moote Chrifti,
frotn Europe.
The French Islands in the Weft-Indies con
tinue to exhibit itenes of mu'derv, huLULfig?
and afluflinatioos. At Aux-Cayes affairs are
alm»ft as bad a* at the Cape ; Come reports
lay they are equally as bad at Ma r tiiiiqne ;
anil from Guadaloupe the details are Stocking.
By late accounts from the Weftwardit ap.
pears, that some preliminary interviews with
part of the Indian; and oar Cammiffiouers
have taken place, which terminated favora
bly and amicably—and on the loth Juiy the
Coram flioners proceeded on their voyage to
Sandufkv, where the Council is to be LiltJ.
A veflel was fitting out at Newborn K. C.
fufpefted as a privateer—but oa a motion
made by direction of the Governor to pr evert
her departure—She was immediately ftripfed
of her warlike apparatus. This fcUies pri
vateering buiiueis in that quarter.
507
J4, 1/9^-
sty e vcflW i.iriv'ta here yrflcrday (rrttii
F»O'd.-aux, accounts dre received us lace as the •
sad of Jtir.e ;— (cfiLions brtd revolted, were
united and+iad actually declared thernfelvcs lor
a. 11 m 1 1\ d monarchy —40 Mcinbcr* ot the Con
vention(BtiUWt.s party) weie in pnfori ; at M«r-
Omllcj ihey were palling theii own decree®, an.
Hulling all thole ps the Convention. The 6pau
la,<*« Were in great force near Bayonne ; Mr.
j j agenrle'man recommended to me by ,
nil uncle, arrived n this viflYl, who brings the
above accounts. was at the head ofc 4
Dtimerous army."
A veifel arrived at Boston last week, spoke
a <(Tiip fragb Nantes, bound to Philadelphia, \
with a deck load of palfengers.
TJie idea of the citizens- of the United !
Stare-, he ng dire&ly or indirectly concerned
i»i privateering, appears to be scouted from
New Hampfhireto Georgia.
The Fr3tf£h frigate la Concorde is arrived
a< Boftdn.
| hundred pounds sterling had be n
collected ifn- Cliarlelion, S C. (or the relief'of
the French emigrants, ihe da eof our lall ac
counts.
At a meeting of the merchants of the city
of Philadelphia* John Nixon, E' q. in Hie chair,
■ a numheHof refbliitiorfs being offered to the
, meeting, were read and adopted, lis follow*:
Resolved,, That,a committee be appointed
to collect information refpe&ing the capture
or detention of veflels belonging to the citi
zens of the United States by the cryjfers of
the nations at war, and to lay the fame be
fore the President of the United State*, with
such representations as they may think ne
cessary.
Resolved, that they be further authftrifed
to pro)i»fe from time to time (to a meeting
' of the,merchants, to be called for the pnrpofe)
ftnjh measures as they (hall agree upon for the
,-pi'elervation or improvement of the com
merce of the state. *
vftfl. That to enable our fa id com
mittee to carry into effect tbefe neceflary
measures, we and each of us do promise to
communicate from time tq time such infoi
mation refpciSing the matter to tliem com
mitted, as shall come to our knowledge.
JOHN JAY,
RUFCS KING.
Resolved, That the powers and anthori'
ties of this committee continue ro the 31ft
December next, and that the merchants be
then convened for the parpofes of choosing
'the fame or any other committee, if they (hall
think proper.
Resolved, That the committee consist of
•thirteen persons, who ihall be reimburled any
expence that they may. be at in the prosecu
tion of the foregoing business.
The following gentlemen were accordingly
appointed, viz.
John Nixon, Thomas Fitzfimons, John
John Swanwick, John M. Nefoittj
4 James Crawford, Joseph Ball, Francis Gurney,
James Vanuxem, Magnns Miller, Robert
Wain, Walter Stewart, Robert Ralfton.
.PubliJbcd by order of the Meeting,
R. RALSTON, Secretary.
The citizens of Burlington, New-Jerfcy,
kave paflVd several spirited resolutions re
' fpeftmg the proclamation, approving the
fame—and reprobating in strong terms " any
interference in the internal adminiftratian of
ourgovernment by any foreign power or ini
nifter, as an infringement of the sovereignty
"of the people, tending to destroy public confi
dence,leading to anarchy,and meriting the fe
vered: reprehension of all independent Ame
ricans." j
If" the enlightened friend of humanity would
exhibit, to mankind, a fyltein exemplifying
the serene majefly of republicanism, he need
not recall, from the grave, the age, when
Arhe/is (hook beneath the fulminating sftion
of Dcmofthenes, or when Rome huug on the
mellifluent tongue of Tully. For the pur
pole of ajcerraitiing tht uri oj repul/iicamfm, in
lf£a<fcof conjuring up the dead, let him confuJt
the living !—Let him observe, that political
ITRUCTVRE Ia the WESTERN SPRING OF D>l, and
point the world to its unrivalled o:der, and
arrangement ! While the luminous edifice
commands the admiring eye of Vhilofophy,
and presents a model of the grand proportions
that become the RESPLENDENT TEM
PLE OF UNIVERSAL LIBERTY.
[From tiie original topv.J
To NICHOLAS CRUGER, EsQuint,
Chairman of a <acuing, of thcCitizm cj Ncw-Yoih,
SIR,
YOUR letter conveying to me the refolu
tionsof the citizens of New York, at their
late meeting affords me much latiifaftion.
The approvtng voice of iny flllow-citizens
can nf*e;r bp heard by me with indifference.
Thit the inhabitants of your re(pc<3able
metropolis mtift alwayi give particular plea.
rfijte l . An tina:iimity fe perfefl as appears to
hak"? prevailed among them upon an occajfioa
so intereftrag ro our national peace and hap.
pineff:, furniftiei an exampl* cf j;ocd fene,
* moderation and patriotic virtue, which can
not -ccate to be remembered to tlieir honor.—
DU'cernipi# m it a fare pledge of their firm
perftvcring fupoovt; I request yon to
m'aks knoyrn to them the high I'enfe I enter,
'"tain of the difpoiitioos they have manife(tet! t
and the complete reliance I place upon thole
difpofitio-t«.
j cannot omit the opoortuirty of publicly
uniting, with the in in acknowu dging ( he prompt
and decided co-operation of the Governor of
New-York, towards the support of the neutra
lity of our Country. The difpofnioo hitherio
fh?wn fcy the Chief Magiftiatcs of (be fevtral
S.aus in relation to tins point, is a pleasing evi
dence of * spirit of concert for the general good,
happily calculated to harmonize ar.d invigoiaic
ail the pant of our political fv It. m.
/ 7oj " feller J'rm Km York, d.fed Auyift
the (.ohmbian Cenlbel.
Co. WASHINGTON.
The inhabitants of the socient tow* of
Plwmiuth. in Mafiachuietrs, have exprefled
Metropiiiiun off he Proclamation iii ternis «f
approbation.
The Georgia'iazene nf the 25'h u!t. f*yi,
that (he Jaie tamng and leathering business in
Savannah is considered by the inhabitants of that
city, as it really was-, a most difgracelul tranfic
tlou to the pcrfons concerned—the perpetretprj
have been discovered and bound over to answer
to the indtamenuihat thai) be found agaimt
thtm. The story of a Mr. Putnam's beir,.-
threatened, is flatly conirad.ftcd by that zen
tlernan. 7 6
he laws of every free republic afford a re
medy for every injury public <j>r private; and it
indicates a -want ol true republican maganimity
ot I pint to wreak the popular diMeafore on an
hapless individual, lor any fupp ,f c cl mifdemea
»or. L't us citjr remeoiber, th.t where law
ends, tyranny begins.
COMMUNICATIONS.
A correspondent oblrrves that, it is probable,
th-c way wiJJ not Se r clear for our citi
zens to cnu r on board French cruisers or. priva
teers, notwitbftanding the acquital of Mcnfield*
by the late 41 virtuous and independent jury".—
T hat the people arc t« t<»vor ot peace and neu
trality— thai tbty are opposed to ihedeteftable
and diaholicai hufinefs of oac description of
citizens at mirtg, to rob and plunder jjnpthf r, is.
not so monstrous, abominable and
absurd, as lome fupetlative ftickleri, for anirqky
nave hid.
■■ . -
One hundred million* one htiridr*d
thousand men ; (Hps, dotes, &c. without
numbei or calculation'—were
pended by Great-Britain, in her at';mpt s o I'ub
jngate the free cittieiu of this count';-, —She is
now iuvolved in the war again!) France, which,
whether fuccefsful urj not, mult be attended
with an immense expence, and an enereafe of
lie' public buuhiT'.v Bui, if iWccfstui, wc are
told, with all the offutVlrrd gravity of conviction,
that, in - conjunction with rhc other powrta of
Europe, (he will turn her arms aga'rnft the United
States—Thgt is—Grcat-Bufaitr will plunge ticr
felf into an irretrievable abyss, to obtain, what
the already tnjoys airport without a rival—The
benefiia refslting from a commercial c innict on
with this country ! !—But wc are toid the pre
sent wji in Europe, it a war against piiticiplei—
Will > contpjcftover principle-, lecd the ,many
millions of her manufdituiers and ariizans
will it freight her (hips—or Wafi b r produc
tions to every quarter of the gl»t»e f
It appears that certain persons, in some of
their late calculations have "reckoned without
their holt."—There is an inveteiate propensity
in the people of ihe United States, to fee, think,
and*i7for thenifelvca— r'n be goveined by tie
tjiflatrs of fobei'realot l , and calm
to trust.to thfrevideivee of their own senses, ami
to exprrfs the honcft unaaiuteiated feelings of
tlSeir own hearts. The rcvilera of public met*
and public measures, appear to hi ve been un
•pprirrd that thcle CQnfitluCJi£CJ .arc n .ru
rally to fce ex pefled as the iclult of their ini
quitous attempts to (our, disturb and inifli-ad
the public judgmen'. ft is not easy to account
for their bold ami impudent attempts to impo'f#
their falfehoods on the people on any other fup
pofitioo.
Among the numerous unifiers pra£lif<«d by
the enemies of the American revolution during
the late war, that of publishing fabiicated letters
was ooe,—;tr)d it i$ but jufticeuto acknowledge
that their eflf«jys in this Ime were much superior
to iheir imitator* of the present day. They dif
covcied some degree of ingenuity in ihcir spe
cimens of political craft—there was, frequently
an air of pLufibility in their extia&s which had
an impofin# effedl for a time on the reader —
But the pitiful atnmpwof modchi connt rfeit
ers a,e so flimfey i hat there 11 no n< cefliry i& re
move the cobweb covering so the cheat.
—The National Gazette is frequently lupplied
with these prefty samples of antifedera! candor
—-these honest effufions of domelike manufac
ture, which are palmed on the public as-the
spontaneous fentimem's of per funs a distance;-
Fortunately the remarks arr so outre, and the
flcftions (ogrcj* that it is Jmp*>tiible they ftiduld
not defeat tne design of the writer,as no one can '
believe that any person in their ft nfes would
deliberately set down and write fucti absurdi
ties.
$3" The proceedings oj the Citizens of Burling*
ton and other places y in relation to the Pr* r »'
<r piaL ,tn re/atron ,nc Prtftin.
Proclamation, arc unavoidably fojlponti till Our next.
' Niitor,' in our next.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVEDafrAf PORT«/PHILADFI PHfA.
Brig Molly, Morris, Madeira
Theodofia, Vanfife,
Schr. Speedwell, Dennington,
Hornet, Jufttce,
Polly, Cottingham,
Sally & Polly, Gribins,
Harm left, Stoder,
Sloop William, Scott,
Sally, Smith.
fpr Price $J Stocks as in our luji.
THIS DAY IS PUIiLJiHED.
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone Hcuje, No* 41, south Second-Street,
Medical Tranfa&ions
OF THE
College of Physician*
Of Philadelphia :
Volume I. Part I.
Piicc in boards One Dollar..
Aifo lately published by T. Dblfin,
DR. UNDERWOOD'* TREATISE
On the diseases of Children, with general d«.»,
re£lions for the management of infan.s front
the birrh. adapted both for the «»fe of Medi
cal Pra&itionera and private Families.
TWO VOLUMES IN ON*.
Pricc »ne dollar neatly bound.
Gape-F rancoia
Virginia
dp.
Indian Rives
-Savannah
Penobfcot
Virginia
CharJeitonfrom the FashS«« CB-MttnctK.
- »>
A FRAG MEN 1".
" TT is contentment, not
X l-icbes," (aid he " that
makes a pei sou happy. Poor and
content, said the Poet, is rich e
nough." Ah ! ftid I, the Poet might
fay 10, or at least a person who bore
the name of a Poet might—but that
he was really a Poet, 1 deny. Po
verty has always been an unwelcome
attendant on good Poets, and it
plainly appears from t he ab«ve quo
tation from your would be Poet,
that he never expei ienced poverty ;
if he lud. be must have known that
it is jmpoflible for a man to be con
tent ed," when he is cold and hungry,
or when he has a beloved wife anil
children in a llarving condition,and
nothing where wit h to fill their bel
lies.—At that inftaut a rap, rap, rap
at the door. .Come in, said I.
Good morning, said my neighboui
S ,in a tone of voice Co very low
and dirge like, that I tho't nothing
less than his wife or eldest son was
dead. Good morning, said I.—
".Would you go over and help me
flcin my cow," said he, in the fame
key that he had bid me good morn
ing. — Your cow i.said 1, is your cow
dead! Yes, fir, said he, ffie got in
the mire latt night and is dead .— I
will go and help yon, laid 1, he
turned his back and went out.
Alas, poor Yorick ! said 1. not that
the death of this poor bead boreany
similitude to that ot Y orick, but that
sentence is so imprefTed on my mind,
that when I fee any petfon in dtf
tress I immediately exclaim, alas,
poor Yorick !— I will alter < l,e '«"•
tence iu the present cafe- Alas!
paor beast !—lf I had not forfaken
my mnfe 1 would write thyepitaph
tllou art gone —and whither no mor
tal can tell ; but the poor babes,
who expe«sted support from thy
teats, are still left to mourn thy un
timely fate. —It is for these p«or
babes I lament —Their lather has
not another cow.—Where \>ill he
get tnilk to feed them? Can i his
man feel contented ! —Ah ! Poverty,
" thou art a birter draught, this 1
know by experience, lor 1 have tact
ed thy very dregs.— Ye lons of af
fluence, remember the poor—consi
der that it is very probable that
your children will feel the pangs of
poverty, if yon should efcape-—coti
fider this, and lend the poor the
comforts of life, that ihe Great
Giver of all good things, may lend
them to your children. A. Z.
NEW-Haven, Julj 31.
ON the 25tl inflant died at bis
house in this city, the honorable
Roger Sherman, E(q. Senator of
the United States —He was taken
ill about the middle of May lad, and
from that time declined 1 ill his
death. His physician fuppoled his
d Harder to be seated in his liver.—
He was born at Newtown in MaU'a
chufetts, April 19, 172t. As he was
Hot favored with an education an
fwejable to his genius, his improve
■nents and the honors to which he
aitaine*d, were wholly from hisown
abilities. His father died when he
was but nineteen, and in the ,care
of his mother and of a large family
of brothers and fillers, he exhibited
unwfual filial piety and fraternal af
fection. He came to this then co
lony of Connecticut when he was of
the age of twenty-two, and at the
age of twenty-four was appointed
fui veyor of lands for the county in
whiffh he lived. From that lime he
was conllantly employed in public
btrfinets, and ftiftained the various
offices of a Jtiftice of the Pcace, a
Keprefewative in the General As
sembly, a Juflicc of the Court of
Common Pleas, an Afiillatit, si Judge
of the Superior Court of the State,
Mayor of the City, a Representative
of the State in Congress, and a Se
nator of the United States. He was
a member of the firfl Congress in
1774, was •present and signed the
glorious act of Independence in
1776, and invariably continued a
member of Congress from its firfl
exigence till his death, whenever
the law requiring a rotation in the
repvefentation admitted it.
It is worthy of reniaik, thai tho
lie futlained b> many otfic'ts in ilie
civil government both ol the State
ami of the I'nited States, to all
which he was promoted by the free
fuffrages i>{ his fellow citizeiu>, and
iu moil oi « hich he cauld not, with
out a new election, continue longer
than a year, and in the reft not lon
ger than two, three or four years ;
and although for all those offices
there were, as there always are in
popvlar governments, many compe
titors at every ele<stion, yet Mr.
Sherman was never removed from
any one of them, but by promotion
or by a6i us legislature rcquiiing a
rotation, or rendering the offices
incompatible with each oilier. Nor
with the re(lri<stion just mentioned,
did he ever lose his election to any
office to which he had once been
elected, excepting his eletftio" as a
representative of the town in the
General Aflembly ; which office we
all know is almeft constantly fhift-
ing. This Ihows, to how great a
degree, and how invariably lie pof
lefled the confidence of hi* fellow
citizens. They found by long ex
perience, that both his abilities and
his integrity merited their confi-
dence.
To have been constantly employ
ed in ihe public feiviee for forty
eight years—to have fuftaiued so
innny and so important public offices,
and 10 have fultained them all wirh
honorand reputation ; to hava main
tained an amiable character in every
private relation ; to have been from
early youth an ornament to f.hrifli
anity,, and to have died in a good
old age, in the full pofleffion of all
his honors, and of his powers both
of body and mind, is a rare attain
ment, and as to him at least, an hap
py junction of circumstances.
This day is publijhed, by
MAT H E W
No. 118, Maiket-ftieet, Pliiladelphia,
No. Jitll. ol
Guthrie's Geography,
IMPROVED,
Etnbelliflied with a MAP oPASIA.
THIS valuable work will contain (exclusive
oj the maps in the London edition of 1792)
mapsol New-Hampfhirc, Massachusetts, Con
necticut, R lfland, Vermont, N.York, N. jer
iey, Penniyivania, Delaware, Maryland, Vir
ginia, Kentucky, N. Carolina, S. Carolina,
and Georgia.
No. i. contain* a map of the feat of war in
•Europe ; No. a. a map of Hungary and Euro
pean Turkey; No. 3. a map of the countries
round the North P-.»le ; No. 4. a whole ftieet
map of the world ; No. £. a plan o( the ancil
lary sphere ; No. 6. a map of South-America ;
No. 7. a map ot Switzerland ; No. 8. a chart of
the world ; and No. 9. a map of Africa.
Such of the citizens of Philadelphia, a) have
not had an opportuni y of examining itys work,
are requclted to fend for the numbers already
published, in oider to fati&fy themselves how
far it defeTves their patronage. If, on infprc
tion, they should not approve of it, their money
will be freely returned.
Besides.the great improvements in the Ame- '
rican Geography, the accounts of France will
be exira&fd from the French Geography, pub
lished since the revolution ; the map ol Fiance
will be engraved agreeably to the division iiwo
departments : the history ot Ruflia, which, in
the London edition, is carried no farther than
1775, iscontinued to the late execrable invasion
ot Poland by Catharine : the account of Swe
den has been compiled anew, and numberlcfs
other improvements will be made in this edi
tion.
* # * Subfcripiions arc received by the book
fclLrs in Boston, New-York, Baltimore, Wil
mington, RtcliiMund, Charleston, &c. &c.
An (ruji tO.
War Department,
August 1 Jl x 1793-
INFORMATION is lien- by given to all the
Military Invalids of the United States, that
I tie sums to which they are intitled for fix months
of their annual peh(jon T from the 4th day ot
latt, and which will become due on the
g-fh of September next, will be paid on the said
day hy. the Com milliners of the Loans, with
in the States rcfpc&ively under the usual regu
lations.
By Command of the
President o[the United States.
H. K N O X, Secretary a 4 War-
N.,8. The Printers in the re/p.Btve States are
rcq'icfted to pft'oiifli '.he above in their nttufpaptrs. f»r
the space of two wonthi.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-ilreet, N e vv-Yor k.
TH £ Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COM M ISS lON, begs leave to of»
fer his lervjces to his friends and others, in the
Hoe of a Stock. Broker. Those who may plea fe
to favor him with their buftnets, may depend
upon hiving it tranfa&ed withtheutmoft fide»
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will be ft rift ly
attended to.
(t.f.) LEONARD BLF.ECKF.R
508
J
Trcafury Department,
Au£ :/Jl io, 1793-.
NOTICE is hereby fcive", that fiopoials
will received at the Oiiice oi the Se
cretary of tJwTreafury, until the '4'h <!ay
ot Sjpfcniber next iuclufively, toturuiln by
the following at titles of Cloathing,
for the use of the United States, viz.
4,800 Hats,
5,1313 Stocks
5,123 Stock-Clasps,
23,480 Shirts,
5,123 Vests,
s,iao Coats,
9,600 Woollen Overall*,
9,600 Linen ditto,
19,333 pairs o(
9,630 pairs ot Socks,
5,123 Blanket'-,
323 Caps,
320 pairs of Leather Breec.ies,
640 pairs of Boots,
323 pairs of Spurs,
643 pairs of Stockings,
1,523 Rifle Shirt*.
The cloathing to be delivered at the eity
of Philadelphia ; one fourth pal to* the who..-
number of I'uits on or before the 1 Jth ol Je
bruarv, one fourth on or before the I sth ot
April, and the remaining half on or btlore
the 1 i A »f- June, 1794-
The articles niuft be agreeably to lucn pat
terns as ftiall be dircfted by the Secretary for
the Department of War. Payment " ill be
made as soon as the whole of the articles iuall
have been delivered. e P* '4S-
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
BcoHdhr, at the Stone- House, in Second Jlrect,
ENCYCLOPAEDIA:
or, a DICTIONARY of ARTS,SCIENCES,
and MISCELLANEOUS I.ITERAIUKE,
On a Plan cvtirel) new :
BY WHICH
THE DIFFERENT SCIENCES AKD AR TS
arc digested into the Form ot D»Hin&»
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS:
THIS VOLUME CONTAIN?
HYDROSTATICS, Hygrometer, Htftory of
Jipan, Iceland, Jerusalem, J<*ws. India,
li\fe£ls, Infu*aru:e, Ireland, Italy, Kami-b?ik.a,
Knighihoud, Language, Law, L< gcrdrmaio,
wiih a great variety ol Biographical and Mifrel
laneous Articles.-«-Hiuilrated with thirty-one
elegant Copperplates.
CAR £ Y,
CONDITIONS.
The woik is priming on a fupfvfiif paper,
and new types, (cast tor the pu'pofc) which
will be occasionally renewed before they con
tract a worn, appearance.
I. The work is fumifhed in boards, in volume*
or half-volumes, as fubfenbers chufe; (lie price
ot ihe whole volumes, five dollafs each,ot the
half-volumes iwo dollars and two-ihirds ol a
.dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on fob
fcribmg, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
lo be paid for when delivered, the pritieofone
volume to be paid in advance,and the price o,f
each Tucccedingvolume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work-will be delivered unlcfspaid for.
111. In the couifc ot the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplate® ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia : which by
far exceed in number those given ih* any other
fcientific dictionary. At the ciofe of the pub-
Jication yill be delivered an rl?£aj|{ frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
]t is expetted the work wfll be comptifed in
about eiphteen volumes in qiwrto.
The fubfcriptiou will continue open on the
above term* till the firi* day of September next,
to give opportunity tq those who'ate not yet
fubferibers, to come forward.
Those who -hivve fubferibed, and got only a
small part of the work, are requested to Com
plete their setts, as tar as publiftied, as fcou as
ajter the firft of .next September. by
which tJttje the tenth volume is expe&ed to be
ready, the publither will not conGder hirnfclf
bound to make up those fettp which are not
completed up to that period.
THE Editor of the Gazette of the United
States, proposes publishing the Paper,
under that Title, every Evening, Sunday's
excepted.
To i{ intecefting as a Daily PuMi
c«i(in, i( Ihall contain foreign and dome It ic,
caiminercial and political Intelligence El'-
fay* and Gbferv.atiou's, local and general :-r-
Maritime information Prices Current of
Merchandize and the Public Funds. Alloa
fuinmarv of the proceedings ofCongrefr., and
of the of this State with a
sketch of Congreffioual Debates, &c.
Advertizing favors will be gratefully re
ceived.
To be printed on paper of the demy size ;
but a larger lize ftiall be substituted in Decem
ber next.
Philadelphia,
VOLUME IX, op
Philadelphia, June 19, 1793.
To the Public.
TERMS.
The price Six Dollars per Annum, to be
paid half Yearly.
When a fufficient number of Subscribers is
obtained, the Publication Ihall commence.
In the interim, the Gazette will be publifii
ed twice a week as ufiial.—Subfcript ons are
refpe<stfully falicited by the Public's humbie
servant,
JOHN FEN NO.
Suhfcriptions are received at the C ity Tavern,
South Second Street—by Mr. Dobjon, at the Stout
Houje—by other perjons xjjho are in pojjeffion of Juh
fcription papers, and by the f.dito<\ at hii tiQufe,
No. 34, North Fijth-Strctt.
Philadelphia, July, 1793,
TREAM'RV DLPARTMf ST; J««M- 2 '
VJ OTICE is hereby giv« u, '.hat pu.pov:
be ifcdvfri at tbt othce of the fc»«*cnta*y
the Irea'.ury, autii the totmeru;h G«v of Srj..
tembrr next, inclufivcly» f/>» the «(' ,
Rations wiiicti may be required the ufc t
the United States, from the Hi it day ot Januaiy
to thethuty.fi ft day of Dtccmbtr 1794, bum
day* inciuhve, at the places, and wtilwn ttic
dittn&s heicaftcr mentioned, vi 7
1. At any place or place* betwixt York-To«vn
and Carlisle, in the (tate ot jVnnlylv mia, and
Pittfb«rgh,&at Putfhurgh,Yoi JWoVufiCatliflfi,
e. At any place or place* Cro»n Pialontgh t**
the mouth of Big Braver Ctctk, and, at the mouth
of Big Beaver CrCck.
3. At any place or places from the find mouth
to the upper talis ot the (aid Big Bwver, aud at
the uppei falls.
4. A' any place or from the (aid upper
falls, lo Mabonjng, and at M. honwtg.
<j. At any place or places trotn lite (aid Ma
honing over to the IKa«£ Navigation ol Hit river
Cayahoga, and at the f*id Head Nav^attoH.
6. At any place or places hom the iaici Head
\av gatiofi to the mcvth ol the laid u\cr Ca)«-
bo<*a, and (aid niMilh.
7. Ar any place 01 places betwixt the mouth
of the Biiz Beaver Creek, to the mouth :»f the
riv< r Muikiugum, «md no tUt fatd nver to ths
Tufcaiand at the and thenc<s
over to the Cay a|ioga • ivci, and thwi.ee down the
said viver to its month.
8. At any place or places betwixt the mouth
o! the river Mnfk'nguw and the mouih of the
Sc-icyo river, and at the of the (aid river
Scioto.
g At any place ot places betwixt the mouth
of Scioto i iver & the mouth of tin Great Miami,
at the month ot the Great Mwmi, and t.om
thence to the rapids or the (alls ot the. Oiiio,an4
at the Uul rapid ss
10. At any place or places betwixt the mouth
of the Great Miami, up the said Miami to and
at I*iqo© Town.
11. At any place or places from FortWalh
ington to Fort Hamilton, and at Foit Hamilton.
At any plate o» places trom Fort Hamiltoq 10
Fort St. Clair* and at Fori St. Clair.
12 At any place or places from Fort St. Clair
to Fort Jeff stfan, and at Fort Jrfirrion.
13. At any place or olacc-s t» <>in bot I JefFerfon
to the field ot a&ion.of the 4th. «t Novembei,
1791, and at the said si Id ot attiou.
14. At any place or places f«om the said fielcj
of attion to the Miami Villages.
Miami Villages.
15. At any place or places from the said Mi
ami Villages to the falls of the Miami uver,
which empties tnco L*ake £'ie, and 31 the said
falls, and from thence to its mouth, arid at US
inouih. •
16. At any plate or places from the mouth of
the said Miami river ol lyio. to Sandusky
Lake, and at Sandufky Lake.
ij. At any place or places from the said San
dufky. Lake, to the mouth oiiho liver Cayahoga.
*8» At any ptacc orpU?ts f»om t-he mouth of
the laid river Cayabog* to Pfefquq Iflc, aj>4 at
Prefque Ifli'i
19 At any place or places from Prefque He
to, the ftrcam running into Lake Erie Iron* to
wards tlie Jadaghquf And thence over to
and at the laid Jsdaghque Lake v and thence
the A'lcghany river to Fort Franklin.
20. At any place or places tiom Prefque I fie
to Le Beuf, aud at Le Bout
21. At any place or places frovn Le fecnf to
Fort Franklin, an<2 at Fort Frar.klin, and
thcnce to Piufburgh.
22. At any place or places from the rapidsof
. the Ohio to the mouth of the Wabafh river, and
from the mouth ot the f»td WaMb river to th«
mouth of the l iver Ohio.
23 At any placc or places on the East fide of
the fiver Miffiflippi, from the moUth ol the Ohio
river, to the mouth ol the Illinois river.
64. Ai »ay place or places ttom tile mouth of
the ia d Wabafh riyer up to FoU Knox, and at
Fort Knox,
25. At any jjlacf or places from Fort Knox up
the (aid Wabaiti to Ouitianon, ami at Ouittanon.
26. Art a«v place or pi aces from Ouiuanon,
up ibe laid Wabalh,.to the hi ad navigation of a
branch thereof called Little RVver, and at tjje
said head navigation of Little R-vei.
27. As any place or places from the fald
navigation of Little River over to the Miami Vil
lage.
28. At *n,y place or places frojn the month of
the rvver Tentflee to OcCochappo or Bear Creek,
on the said fiver, vncluftvely
29. At any place or places from the mouth of
the river Cumberland to Nafl&ville, on the said
river, and at Nashville..
30- And at any place or places within thirty
m ics ol said to the Southward, West
ward or Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required at a-ny places,
or within other diftris>, not fpecified in thrfe
proposals, the price of the fame to be hereafter
agreed on betwixt the public and the cdntraftor.
The lations to be fupplicd are to consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or ft »ur,
One pound ot beef, or £ of a pound of pork,
One quavt of fait, )
Mwo quarts of vinegar, ( IQO fatio()S .
Iwo pounds ot soap, f
One pound of candles, )
The rations are to be furniHied in such quanti«
ties as that there ftiall at all time.", during the said
term, be fuffceient lor the consumption of the
troops at each of the said pofti, for the space 0} al
leafi 3 months ih advance, in Rood an< * whole
some provisions, if the fame fliall be required.^
It is to bt understood in each cafe,that all loile:
fullained by the depredations of the enemy, or bj
means of the troops or the United Stales*, shall b<
paid for at the pi iccs of the articles captured o
destroyed, on the depositions of two or mor<
creditable characters, and the ceitifkate of •
commiflioned officer, ascertaining the eircuin
fiances of 1 he lo(s, and the amount of the articlc
for which compenlation is claimed.
The contract for the above supplies will b
made cither for one or tor two years,"Mn*a
appear eligible. J*ejfon% disposed to .contra*
will therefore confine their offers to one year, n
they may make their proportions foas to admi
an elc&ion ol the term of two years.
The offers may comprise all the places whtc
have been fpecified, or a part of them only-