tn
♦
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEUNpAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 117 of Vol. IV.],
FOR THE GAZETTE
Hints refpetting a projetf for cflablijh
ing unto erf at p tact with the Indians.
TliE purpo'e of the following observations
is not either to criminate or panegyrtfb
themeafores of the national government ref
petting the Indians; it is to J*£geJl Jome con
fJerntions relative to Indian affairs, with views
i'.ry d'jfergr.t from those 0/ party. But, as my
ibul revolts against the fiavi/h dojftrines that
militate agaioft liberal difcufiion. I purpose to
express my sentiments in the spirit of free
dom ; while I repeat that decorum which is
due to t.*!? enlightened mind of America.—
And I fhsll fir.<i advert to measures which
hava already beeu proposed or adopted for
maintaining peace with the Indians.
I. The giving nf presents to tbe Tndians, is
a measure which has been sometimes employ
ed. l'arhap; particular cireumftances may,
an certain cases, advise its adoption. But it
may "be questioned whether this* measure* al
though the practice of European powers
should seem to recommend it, i.*, on the
whole, beneficial. Its advantages are at
least temporary and precarious—and perhaps
it tends in tbe event to encourage in the In
dians a disposition to depredation.
The ncifure of fending clerical mijjunaries a
mong the Indians has had its patrons- The ,
zeal with which this measure has been in
foine inftaoces patronized, may be considered
arguing moregooduefs of intention than
reach of thought, or acquaintance with the
history of society. I do not however objedt
: to the meafbre, but only to the miscalcula
tion of its relative place and importance. Of
itfelfi it appears inadequateat piefent, to the
objeS of maintaining peace with the Indian:.
3. Ntfpciatit* is one of the resources. This
msv be a valuable auxiliary, as conducive to
eonfidend in any other light, it-may d. ap
point the hopes of the pu'jl c. I will mention
of fie efficiency of tieaties iFitii the Indians.
After the war in which the French are now
engaged had extended to the principali/ime
Posters of Knrope, and had consequently be
come immediately intending ,to the Arru-ri
can commerce, the Prelidynt of the united
States announced to his fellow-citizens, t.iat
national difpofiton which is declared in the
national treaties and laws; publicly proclaim
ing, for the information and bfmft of the
citizens, the importance of abftaimrg from
ill acts inconsistent wit'i that friendfhip and
impartiality, which the faith of tieaties and
the authority of the law enjoined : And in tlie
fame proclamation, he gave public notice of
the determination to execute his officii and
sworn duty. Yet even this nv.-afure has not
escaped animadversion, and the lan«na';
cenlare. Such aniniadverfion', when pro
ceeding from misguided zeal, and not from
psrfonal d fappointment, may indeed be re
garded with a peculiar indulgence and gene
rous compiflion, as being the erratic effulions
iof an ardent paflion for liberty. But, u 3
Ineafure clea.lv con.t'tutional, and wifely »-
'dapted to gnarcl against the i.fraction of trea
ties and the psblic law, is censured, even in
a country so enlightened and liberal as tie
United States, and by perlons claiming t.it
character of American citizens ; can it hera
tinnal to repose implicit confidence in tie ef
feft of t eatie-, over such pe, lons as Indians
perrons so ignorant, so fnrpicious.A) irritable
% ft i t
so prone to plunder, lo destitute of regular
vernmtnt » Are the majority of the >ndan
lels adverse to the reftraintt ,Jnloa '°.',
than fche per fete who traduce the Pr.fu.ent
of the United States are -n
tender! for the protection of peace on the Ton
tier. But in cafe of I.ortilities-on » hew * iU ''
the extent of frontier, .he d.ftanc,
tack* incident to an Indmn war are amon
the cau'cs whch render ,t difficult. or ,mpo(
fibie, to completely protect tr.e rights ot the
United States by adopting a iyftem merelyde
fun-five. Ai.d in fending a regular armi m <
the Indian country, vinous dithcultu-s p.
sent theinfeh c, as obftac!es to the comple"
fureefs of I nch a plan : the natural "Wtacle
which impede the maich of a regular arm}
throng!) an uncultivated country ,
tiplied «-ell as tbe expen.eJ
Jmifhins the army with the requ.fite
plies; the difficulty of ever orertak.ng h«
enemy and fighting him on en.a, ' po .
1 ; to surprize ard defeat. An 1
btry exertions of volunteers, howevtr ho.
' C t rh?t
1 &a»is, are of foch a nature as to want that
fvftematic arrangement which appears c. .
site to the cfbWiflrment o! permanent p •
' 5. Hi atommrnt of ct'tr " • lsn "' - .
1 Indians is an object c.mtfrmplarec. by f«J»
the late treaties ; and outfit never to *
gotten. Vet this purpofc. i. V***k
nuft be flow in its prog reft • Alt.ioug
V "ratu-cditmcftbc of eminent at : jy.
rl Far?o ft, hc./evf r, may, it * mut-ned,
SAf URDAY, JuiY 15.1795.
be accelerated meafnre Tyhich i s yet to
.hie !'ag s efted. •
The pre cedin re marks point to the prin
cipal expcdientsrhich have been relied on
for keeping the idians in pejee. And taken
singly, or in conjnCtion, they do not appear
to promise thatjrompt and complete cita
blifhment of peat which is 'definable lor the
United States, jbefe general remarks argue
the difficulty of pcompliftiing this defirabie
object ; as well a the propriety of adopting
filch further expedients as the importance and
the difficulty of tfe o'ojeft may demand.
Is there then no other measure which may
bs adopted, and tvaich will aid and accelerate
the main of tbe arrangement now in
operation? Before suggesting a fpecific an
swer to this question, 1 will luccindtly men
tion fonie generai ideas.
To ejlab-ijk unwjai prace with the Indiant f it
appears impoi tsjnU that order, government,
civilization, fhifhfl taLe place among them.
This con fide ration immediately opens into
an extecfive field of enquiry. I d& not
purpose at this time to Purvey and particular
ly delineate the whole ; but limply to point
to some of the main obrje&s of attention. I
maltonly ftetcirf&metbing of an outline with
out even pretending to complete the repre
sentations. Persons conversant in compre
henfiye views of human affairs mult be sen
sible of the variety of particulars that would
require attention in minutely investigating
the fubjeft ! But, a 1? the present design is to
throw out only futile hints for public confide ra
tion, the observations will be of a general na
ture, omitting a multitude of particulars.
Ail opinion has, in lo me tnealurc obtained,
Th?.t it is impracticable to civilize the red
people on the bord% :s of the United Stater..
But the fmaH effect of* past attempts for this
poroofe does not appear to warrant the opini
on. The progrWt of mankind from rudeness
to iiumanization is wfoaliv flow, much flower
than a partial obfcrver.of &ciety would be
apt even to imagine.
11 is,' I acknowledge, no easy matter to
form a true estimate oi the- space of tvne which,
in the general course of events, must elapse,
before any people having no connexion wirh
the moit civilized of mankind, would
emerge from t'.ie rudeness ot lavage life and
advance to tfhe civilization, the arts and
humanities of poliflied focietr. Perhaps the
ffacc of a thoujand years is considerably ftoi t
ot the truth. Let a person consider the rude
ness of nations on the continent of Europe iO
L.te as the fifteenth century, and even late: —
then recur to the accounts to be found rela
tive to the fame nations in the writings of
Tacitus, or Caesar ; and further consider the
length of time whichthofe nations must have
existed, at the periods to which these writers
refer ! This view of .only a part ot mankind
may abundantly evince the very flow, and al
mo'ft imperceptible progress of the human
nice from savage rudeness to civilized con
ditions.
It also appears credible, that tfcis progress
in its earlier rtages is much less pei ceptiole
than in its periods. '
And there is one general consideration whicj
applies very univeifally to the progress oi ci
vilization As far as my recolletfbon now
extends, kijlory has not recorded anx people th«t
ever mere cii Hi zed without the wtcnention vj milita
ry Jab or.dilation.
(To be continued.)
FROM THL COLUMBIAN CkNTINEL
AT*. Rwsseij., i
THE Citizens whose names appeared in t.ie
letter pu'olifhed in your paper of Wed
nefdaylaft, from the Ambaflador of France,
to the French Citizens in this place, do not
think themfclves itititled to futb particular
notice for aiiy trifling afliftance th»v may
have lent to the unfortunate French teamen,
who escaped from Miqutlon, and landed here.
Be fides, it ought to be known, that the
small amount that was collected for the re
lict'of thele ditlrefled men, was aided equally
bv the contribution of a number ot other Ci
tizens of the town, whose feelings are warm
ly interested for the success of the FrJ.ich Re
volution, and who embraced with avidity an
opportunity that would evicce their sincere
anil grateful attachment to the patriot citi
z»nsof that great and generous nation, "'"'h
had the courage to afford and relief
to America in the hour of her affliction and
diftreis—and there is row f.ifficient evidence
to believe, that had it only been hinted to the
Citizens of the town, that their aid to the
contribution would have been neceffary,nine
teen, intwentv, would have f/.zed upon tne
occasion, to Save m*nifcfted their fr.endth.p
and atfertion to the children of the only true
and faithful friend of the United State*.
(jazettii 6th injt.J
Bofan 3- 1 793-
3EUTRALITY.
Otm r««"l »in 1,1 cl,nl " " nforl
Arid fail* *•'<? whik « r ">" rock ,he world •
O how f r>rate!y crrft, the wretch who tries
To wrettfrdi commerce fucfc a glorious pri*.
4 6 -3
FROM THE WESTERS STAR,
PuHiJhei at Stockb ridge (Mass.) by L. Andrews.
IT has been justly observed, that the terms
" Liberty and Equality" have been-fla-
grandly perverted, by the conftruftion given
to them by some who make great pretentions
to pat riot Km and political sagacity -—Liberty
gives the privilege of enjoying in peace and
security the fruits of indnftry—it opens, wide
the do«>r to honorary preferment, to those
who purfu? the paths of integrity and politi
cal rectitude—it favors the diflfemination of
that knowledge which enables the community
ta diftingui!h between real and pretended me-
rit, and which dire<sts the public attention to
the former, whether found in tbe low wall'd
cottage, or in the lofty edifice of wealth and
affluence.—Liberty invests a people with the
right of ele&ing their own rulers, whose tafe
hto enadt laws for the general good—and it
enjoins upon th» community a ftri<st and punc
tual obedience to them, without which, nei
ther private nor public happiness can long be
considered in any other view than as empty
founds.—The aforementioned ate among the
many privileges which are allotted to a nati
on whose citizens rightly observe and use the
advantages which freedom and independence
place within their reach-—For fucb .liberty
oar heroes fought—for fuc i liberty our mar
tvrs lei!—for such Hberty our patriot* have
performed the duties of the cabinet, and fueii
it long be our happiness unmoleft-
Equality constitutes a barrier
aflumption of undelegated power
— the fame lecurity for the protcftior?
of the middling and lower class, in the exer
cife-nf tlifer righfi, as it does to the rich and
affluent, and renders the feat ofjuftice accef
fiii.j to all ranks of citizens- 'cvtr hor'tjl
blit weak and uninformed charafterr, propa-'
gate an idea that liberty confiftj in every
man's doing that which is inoft agreeable to
the dictates of inclination, whether conform
able to the laws, or not —that national regu
lations, calculated for the wisest purposes,
must, without giving time to experience '.heir
e3eft', be rendered lubfervient to the wbims
and caprice of a set of compluiners, who have
filHicient art to deceive the u»wary, and hafe
neiVimooeh i--'
discontented with the operation ot a fee and
iuft government. The views of the i aft men
tioned are, to introduce dil'order and cor.fu
fion, that, am'idft its raging, they may them
lelves leize the holm ol power—this effected,
their tone would alter-—ar.d while they foug.it
piincioallv their own aggrandizement, the
people would be called on to obey their nail
ciates, as the infallible oracles of political rec
titude. What thefedemagogues, before their
exaltation, would ftifc? liberty and equality, viz.
(he right of the populace to aftemble ando\ c i -
awe the proceedings ot the freely eie<ficd I'-
gifhtors of the nation, they would afterwards
declaim against as unlawful ar.d seditious.
But the former ideas, when once generally
diifeminated, efpeciaUy among an, uninform
ed multitude, are apt to carry their influence
beyond the controul of reason, 2nd finally pro
duce the mod alarming cont'equenccs. —Un-
happily, this line ofconduft has been too much
purfueJ by our Gillie allies, whefe noble ftrug
gies in the cause of human nature cannot but
j be intereftjng to every American.
Those who delight in the diffufiqn of that
bappinafs concomitant on the establishment of
Wire and wholesome laws, must heartily wifti
that the original principles which induced
France to throw off the fetters of tyranny,
may yet inspire them to the pursuit of thole
measures which are neceflary to secure liberty
,nd its bleflings on a just and permanent foun
dation. There are those who condemn as
Arijtocnts, all who do not join in the huzzas of
a Paris mob, and unhefitating'.y approbate the
proceedings in into of the French Jacobin club
lj U t many, very many, who think that the
conduct ol the former is difgraceful, and that
of the latter hostile to all true principles of
liberty, pray with more honest hearts for the
fneeels of the great cause of freedom, than
thole who accuse them with being favorer.s of
Arjhcracy, (3c. (3c.—But these declaimed mujl
have a cant phrase, and Arijlccracy will an
swer their purpose a> well, and perhaps better,
than anv other.—A(k i'onie of this class for a
definition of their favorite word, and they
will be as likely to tell you it means one thing
as another —but the definitiou is of no con
sequence Anjlocracy is the raiding Jour J,
th; he niori of the party, and that is fuffi
(ien» Those who, through honest ignorance,
allien to themselves the part of prejudicing
mind agiinft such whole pol.tical
opinions are as confiflent as theii own, claim
the indulgence of pity—while some who, from
less honest motives, employ their time to an
swer similar ends, deserve, in some instances,
the severest cenl'ure, in others, contempt.
That the mill of ignorance, which has so
long darkened and overspread the greatest
part of the habitable globe, may speedily va
oilh before the bright rays of the fun of free
dom, and the whole human race participatc
in the rich hleflings of equal liberty, law and
justice, must be the fervent desire of every
| philanthropic heart.
[Whole No. 439-]
FOR THE GAZETTE.
FRANCE, the rival time immemorial of
Great-Britain, had in the course of the
»4r, which ended in ] 763, fuffei cd from the
fuccersful arms of the latter the severest loT
fes and the molt mortifying defeats. Britain
from that moment had acquired an alcend
ant over France in the affairs of Europe, and
in the commerce of the world, too decided to
be endured without impatience, or without
an eager oefire of finding a favorable oppor
tunity to destroy it, and repair the breach
which had been made in the national glory.
The animosity of wounded pride conspired
with calculations of the interest of the State
to give a keen edge to that impatience and
to that desire.
The American Revolution offered the oc
cafidn. 11 attra&ed early the notice of France,
though with ext»eme circumfpe&ion. As
far as countenance and aid may be prcfumed
to have been given prior to the epoch of the ac
knowledgment of our independence, it will
be no unkind derogation to aflert, that they
were mark neither with libera!fV, nor
with vigour ; that they wo»e the appearance
rather of a desire to keep alive difturb.-rnces,
which would embarfafs a rival power, than
of a serious design to aiSft a revolution, or a
serious expectation that it would l»e effected.
The victories of Saratoga, the capture of
an army, which went a great way towards
deciding the ilfue of the contest, decided a-lfo
the hesitations of France. They established
i:i the government of that country n confi
dence in our ability to accompli Hi our pur
pose ; and as a consequence of it produced
the treaties of alliance and commerce.
It is Impossible to fte iu all this any thing
more than t'J.e csrtduft cfa rivalnation, em.
'b'racing-a fltnft proraifing opportunity to re
press the- pride ,ancf diminifli the
power iif its riv'^l; <jv recording a IVectfiFul
fcfiitaaCi to Its authority, and by - foflpinff off
a Valuable portion of iu dominions. Xl'e
difmemberinetit of this country -from {Jrleat
fiitain was "art diwimwatul a very imporfmt
intertft cf France. It cannot b£ doubted,
that it was tbe determining motive, and ajt
_ademLizc_£ompeiifatiou (of the at-.
Menoffenfe, in country, deduced an
encouragement t«» the part which their zeal
for liberty prompted chem to take in our rer
volution, from the probability of the co
operation of France and Spain. It will be
remembered, that this argument was i.fed in
tlie publications of the day ; but upon what
was it bottomed f Upon the known compe
tition between thole powers and Great-Bri
tain, upon their evident interest to reduce
her power and circumscribe her empire ; not
upon motive, of icgard to our interest, or ol
attachment to our caue. Whoever should
have allcdged the latter, asvgrounds of the
expectation he'd ontj wmild have been then
juftfy confidercd as a visionary, or a dc-ceiver.
And whoever lhall now ascribe the aid we re
ceived to such motsves would nor deserve to
be viewed in a better light.
The inference from these fa&s i? not ob
scure. Aid and co-operation founded upoij a
great Wltercft, pursued and attained bv the party
affording them, is not a proper ilock up?n
which to engraft that enthusiastic gratitude,
which is claimed from us, by those nho love
f ranee more than the United State*.
This view of the fubjefi, extorted by the
extravagancy of such a claim, is not meant
to disparage the just pretensions of France
upon our goed tviil. Though neither in the
motives to the fuccouVs which she
nor in their extent (corifidering how power
fully the point oj honor in such a zvar xc\u forced
the confederations of interest when she was
once engaged) can.be found a fufficient basis
for that gratitude w!!;ch is the theme of so
much declamation : Yet we shall find in the
manner of affording us those fcccours just
cause for our efteeci and friendship.
France did not attempt, in the firft in
stance, to take advantage of oyr situation to
extort from us any humiliating or injurious
concessions, as the price of her afliflance ; nor
afterwards in the progress of the war, to im
pose hard terms as the condition of particu
lar aids.
Though this course was certainly dictated
by policy ; yet it was an honorable and a
magnanimous policy ; such a one as always
constitutes a title to the approbation and es
teem of mankind; and a claim tathe friend*
ship and acknowledgment of the party, in
whose favor it is practiced.
But t'.iefc sentiments are fatirfied on the
part of a nation ; when they produce sincere
wilhes for the happiness of the party from
whom it has experienced such conduct, and a
cordial disposition to render altgocd auj fiicndly
cjfitr* u'hnk can h rtnieni ui'tiort prejudice to iu
curt Jwii urdpermanent inttrejli.
To alk of » nation Co situated, to rr a Ice a
facrtfiee of substantial interest ; to expofc it
felf to the jcalcufv, i'! will, or lefentmentof
the reft of the workl; to hazard in an emi
nent degree its o-.vo tjl'erv. for thebenefi'ofc
thi p 1 rt v , wlio may have observed towardaK
mm|he conou& which has been
would be to alk more than the nature of the
cafe demands, mcfrc than the fundamental
maxim* of l'ocicty anthorife, more uau the
Oufcates of fviiM reulo;i juil:fy.
A nueition has anicn, with regard to th?
prujkrf o jett of th-t giatitude, which ts so
nUKai«UiiteiUfegon ; whether the unfo'lunate
2 7 i nice by wkUuni the alliltance received was
given ; or the nation of whom be was the
Chief o. ciie organ. It interests the national
justice to form right conceptions on this
point.
The arguments which support the latter
idea are as follow.
44 Louis the XVI was but the constitution
al agent of the French nation. He acted tor
and 011 behalf of the nation ; 'twas with their
money and their blood he fupportedour cause.
'TU to them therefore, not to him, that our
obligations are due. Louis the XVI. in ta
king our part was no doubt actuated by State
policV. An absolute prince could not love
liberty, iiut the people of Fiance patron
ised our cause with zeal, from fyinpathy in its
objsiA. Tlie people therefore, not its mo
narch arc entitled to our fyinpathy."
This reasoning may be ingenious, but it is
not founded in nature or J*£l.
Louis the XVI, though no more than the
conftitut-ional agent of the nation, had at the
time the ible |)ow#r of managing » ts affairs,
the legal right ct" dire&ing its will and its
forces. It belonged to him to uilift u*, or n«t,
without consulting the nation ; and lie did ai
jiil us without futh consultation. His will
alone wa; atliyc \ that of the natiop pajfivc.
If there was any kindness in the decision, de
manding areturnof kindhefs from u c , it was
the kindness of Louis the XVI ; his heart was
the depotitory ot the fcntiincnt. Let the
genuine voice of nature then, \in per verted
by political fubleties, pronounce whether the
acknowledgment, which may be due lor that
kindness, can be equitably transferred from
him to othe'rs, who had no Ibaie in the de
cision. Whether the principle ij gratitude
ought to determine us to behold with indif
ference his in fortunes, and with
the triumphs of his enemies.
The do&riue that the Prince is only the
organ of his mition is conch*live to enforce
the obligations of good faith between nation
and nation ; in other words, the obfcrvance
of duties stipulated In treaties for national
ptw poles —and it will even iuifice ro continue
to a nation a claim to the friendlhip and good
will of another resulting from friendly offices
done by its Prince ; but it would be to carry
it too far and to render it too artificial to at
tribute to it the eifefit of transferring that
claim from the Prince to the nation, by way
of opposition and contrift. Friendlhip, good
will, gratitude for favors received have so
i life parable a reference to the motives with
which and to the persons by whom they were
rendered, as to be incapable ot being trans
ferred to another at hn cxbenct.
From the New-Tort Daily Gazette
MR. M'IEJN,
EVERY benevolent heart niuft be
agitated with mingled fenti
metus of compafßnn and horror, at
the late we!] authenticated accounts
of the maflacreof eight or ten thou
sand white people, men, women
and children ; and the total de-
Uruiftiou of tlie city of Cape-Fran
cois. And what has occasioned this
horrible carnage and devaiiation ?
It appears, ft&in whatVve havebeen
able to learn, that it originated in
a dilputc between the coinmifiioners
Sontbonux and Polverel, and the
Governor Galbau, all acting under
the authority of the National Con
vention. Galbau, it teems, had been
received at the Cape, and inltaied
in the government, before the ar
rival of the commissioners. This
was deemed by these kuutbls Citizens
an infringement of their authority,
a deprivation offome part of their
dignity. To support their cause in
oppofkion to the Governor, the mu
lattoes are introduced, the negroes
are excited to Wft the arms out of
the hands of theii mailers, and a
general deitru&ion of tlie defence
lefs inhabitants eufues without any
diltinCtion of sex or age. These
are the men who talk so much of
equality ; but when they come to
a£l, we find that, rather than en
dure the lead luppofed diminution
of their power, they will hazard
the total demolition of a great and
flourilhing and the/bedding
of the all its inhabitants.
i-fv ' " "Mm)! proud Man !
Drett'ifi a little brief authority,
Melt ignorant of what he's pioft as
■ fur'd,
Like an angry ape
Plays such faiitaflic tricks before
high Heaven,
As makes the Angels weep,
It is reported, that at leait two
thousand of tlie wretched fugitives
from that devoted place, aie on
their way ro feck an nfyliini in the
abodes of this happy coun
■to—they are coming with no more
property than what root J he bto't
oit ity pour wretches dying in con
iU'jnawon from a general uiaflacic.
I have pbferved in fume of the pa
pers, an invitation i 0 the French
people redding in this city, to meet
at Cor re's HoteJ, for the purpefc of
celebrating the anniversary of; the
taking of the Baitile. Would it
not be a much more becoming spe
cimen of their patriotism, as well as
hutnaniry, to save the expence of a
fuinptuous entertainment, and make
provision for the reception of their
wretched countrymen, who will
soon be here in a it ate of naked ness
and poverty ? JUBA.
Foreign Intelligence.
o o
FRANKFORT, April 2 S.
THE French, wjth an eye to a
diver/ion, having re-entered
Deux Pouts, and spread their forces
from Saar-Louis to Bitche, the Duke
of BrurifWick has pushed forward
to reconnoitre the ground they
occupy, ar.d was followed yes
terday by the King of Prulfia in per
son. His Majeity, attended by the
Duke of Deux Pouts, proceeded to
Carlelberg, the French having in
the mean time retreated back to the
heights that bolder 011 the Duchy.
Cuftine has published a proclama
tion,in which he endeavors to prove,
that he is not the greatest public
robber in exigence.
The Clubbiflsat Mentz, endeavor
more than the French thenifelves,
by every poflible expedient, to pre
vent a capitulation ; and
tional Deputies, to keep upthflHce
of delulion, have declared in &.JFO
- that they expect a Clic
cour of sixty thousand men. The
French have plundered the peafantg
at Hombach, and committed every
poflible enormity.
Princfc Maximilian,of Deux-Poms,
makes the campaign wich the Prui
fian army.
W« have pofleffion of a battery
very near Mentz, formed 011' the ru
ins of an ancient entrenchment,from
which we play on the fort, and the
ftfliHnn n.aniprl Philijppe. We liaye
contrived by means of the relicks of
an old Roman aqueduct, to inun
date the enemy's mines. .•
General Dumourier is (lill
Stuttgard. J
TOURNAY, May 3.
On the litit, the French under
Dampiere, attacked Gen. Clairfait's
pujjfrat Raitnes and Vicogne, with
conHßerable force. Their intention
probably was to relieve Conde,
which they would have succeeded
in, hacLthey taken these polts
They e f° ur several attacks from
five in the morning till the evening,
but were repulsed with the assist
ance of a detachment from the Pruf
iians under General Knoblefdorf,
sent from their camp at Maulde,
nottv ithfianding a French corps
which was potted in front of the
camp to keep them in check. The
two battalions of Prulfians had left
the camp near Tournay, to rein
force tho* posted at Maulde. The
affair was severe, and the lois great
on both fides ; but the French were
completely repulsed.
The fame day the French alio
left their camp at Famai s, and at
tacked Piitice Cobourg's Polls at
St. Sauve and Urmaing, probably
with a view to prevent, his giving
any aflillance,to f.'lairfait.
The infantry advanced with an
intention of turning the left of the
Auftviaiig, and at the fame time kept
up a violent and heavy cannonade
and feint attack from the right, but
"ere so well received from the
right by the Atiflrians, that they
fell back into two villages in great
diforder,-«to the amount of 15,000,
and were iome time exposed to a
heavy cannonade, by which they
loft i or 600 men, without (taring 1 o
move out until their cavalry advan
ced and covered their ret- c-c, which
they made in great confiifion, and
were pursued by the Aiiftrians be
yond the 1a It height before their
camp at Fainars, which the latter
would have forced, had they been
stronger. The French have !2
Ilitt> v\ e
two 16 and three 12 pua »d^.s—j: l3
-466
reft were 8 and 6polers. Thc-fe
attacks whichfcere iemly meant
lo relieve or raise ilicge of Conde,
by turning out exatf
itieir expectation, U probably
lia It en its surrender
We had yefierdßy small aff-iir
with the French ataimes. The
French chof'e to attacus, and were
fools enough to brij a cannon,
which thtyHiiad tin to fire but
once, the Aultrian calry falling
in sword in hand beftt they could
load again, and took he cannon, ]
and ammunition wag|ji with eight
horses. The Frenchiad iJori6 <
killed, and 14 taken, niong whom
wasan artillery officer, The French
made a confvrfed (land on the road
and fields ; but oil tfe arrival of
two Hanoverian canrni, and firing
a couple of rounds a them, they
took to their heels, ari retired to a
village, into which w: fired a cou
ple of {hots more, wheh frightened
them to such a degre*, that they
run and did not stop until they got
to Orchie. The guards and Hano
verian horse were not there, being
■jk too great a diftanceto arrive in
time. We had only a battalion of
Hanoverian foot,and fomeAuftrian
cavalry. Our loss only one Aus
trian killed, and one horse.
PARIS, April 25.
Six thousand Marfeilloi,;, at tile
in (ligation of the »re
marching to this capita). You wilt
fee in the details of the convention
I enclofc you, that Marat was yes
terday acquitted. He loft no time
in refuining his feat in the conven
tion, whither -he was followed by a
formidable mob, who bad pFevioof
ly placed on his head a civic crown.
This farce will mod probably be
followed b) a tragedy, on the arri
val of the who will fee
Marat in the light of a much injur
ed patriot.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
April 23.
The Deputies returned from Va
lenciennes ilated, that they had ta
ken every precaution to couureradt
the ill effetfts of theextreme dearth
of provisions experienced in that
city, thro' the treachery of Duniou
rier, who had conveyed stores to
the enemy. The frontier towns,
they added, were in a refpetftable
state of defence. They had nar
rowly escaped being (hot by a set of
counter revolutionists, whilst liar
ranguing the troops.
Referred to the committee of
public fafety.
Barbaroux impeached Monge,the
marine miniiler, whom he thought
guilty of unpardonable negligence,
allowing seventeen merchant
(hips belonging to the purt of Mar
seille*, and returning thither froin
the colonies, to be captured by the
English and Spanish fleets, liotwiih
ftanding sixteen fail of French (hips
of the line were cruizing-in the
Mediterranean
ylpril 24. Chales, a National De
puty from the department of Maine
and Loire, represented the para.de
and luxurious manners of General
Berruyer, which he thought incom
patible with the command of Sans
Culottes. The soldiers of the Ge
neral's army were in a date bor
dering on infurrecHon, and demand
ed the appointment of their own
officers.
Sitting of the Jaaubius.
RobeiTpierre, the younger, de
nounced Le Brim, the minister, who
was guilty, he said, of the crime of
leze-nation, when lie presented to
the convention the proclamation of
the Prince ofSaxe Cobourg.
LONDON, May 7.
General Cuftine, at the head of
20,000 men, is ready to artack the
Electorate of Treves, and his ad
vanced pofls are already on the
Electoral frontiers.
Knglilh Stocks, 7th May— 3 per
cents. 76. '
SHIP NEP/S
ARRIVED.*,,,, PORTojPHILAUkLPHI/.
ling P .as, K'-chjiiaud.
Poily, Giar'K.
Sloop s.'ea,, Elkins,
T'.j:a«, t)u-k
Bfti.'v,;,
tnrinlkry, Tflwn:
~~A~M ERICA.
BASSETS***." ( St - thnrtop! «r*»)
June 3.
Died on Thursday lad, Monsieur
Louis Nicholas Durand de Sur
niond, a trench royal ill. Harrali.
Ed by the democratic party of Goa
daloupe, and unable to jefide 1.,
ihat iiland with any kind ot com
for, he disposed ot a (mall estate,
and was about to retreat to Ameri
ca there to seek an afyluui from
the Itornis, by which 111 common
with his countrymen ot the fame
political principles with himfclt, lie
had been three years buffered—in
a brig bound to Boftou, he embark
ed himfelt', his wife, and liis chil
dren—in the fame vellbl was depe
fired all his worldly effects,—the
pricc of his plantation,—--Icarce liad
they got without fight ot land « .iea
they fell in with an EngiHh priva
teer from St. Vincent, and were
captured—llo difcrimiiiation could
be observed —his fortune became
the property of the captors : and he
was brought into this port, dc.poll
ed of the means of subsistence : 111
this truly pitiable situation with a
heart torn with anguilhjand a body
emaciated by sickness and fatigue,
unable to bear the ills of fortune,
he lingered a few days and died, la
menting the tniferies of a helpless
wife ai7d children. Being known
by some of his countrymen among
us to have been a member of the
ancient and honorable fraternity of
Free and Accepred Masons, his re
mains were followed to the grave
by a refpe»ftable number of the or
der, and were buried with ail the
honors of masonry.
ST. JOHN'S) (Augusta) June 4.
It is a f3<ft, we uwderrtand, it
coming from the belt authority, that
a French fligate was in the begin
ning of May, lying at anchor in the
Delaware, to surprize all Biiiidi
vefl'els going in or coming from Phi
ladelphia. A fine ship, the Grange
of Liverpool, was captured by her
a few miles below that city, as was
also a brig owned in Bermuda. The
prizes were sent into Philadelphi.
There ii another frigate said to be
off Charleston with similar view*.—
These extraordinary proceedings
wi'l we hope, soon be seriously no
ticed by our minillry.
We are sorry to announce the
death of his excellency Gen. Wood
ley ; who died on Sunday Jaft, at
St. Christopher's*
The honorable John Stanley, as
President of Sr. Chrillopher's, fuc
cee.Js to the chief command for the
tiine being.
Yerterday arrived from New-York i
the Rev. Mr. Lindfey, his mother, |
and lady, and Mils Meredith.
GEORGE-TOWN, June 22.
Died, the 21ft iiiftanr, in George-
Town, Mr. Thomas Nicholls, jun.
His premature exit affords an- in
(iru<ftive lesson to all ; but particu*
l irly to those addicted to gaining,
lr seems Mr Lewis Coxen and Mr.
Nicholls had been playing billiards j
a dilpiite arof'e between them about
the trifling Turn of one quarter of a
dollar; biousfurceeded,Mr.Nichol's
icceived a blow from his antagonist
whichfractured his scull, and in a
very lew days brought him to his
e.id. "i e gay licentious youth and
all ye who accuftoni yourselves to
gaming, look at th j Sj and f u£ y<. n iy
uieak off, from si» mifchieviuus a
practice.
srom a St. Enflatius Paper of May gl.
Caprai,, William Ilal], who an
' oi c J heie iail evening from An
tin. la, where he was carried in, and
lew hoi e -of the French property
on board condemned, conflft
tng <>i 90 h<ij»llieads and 4 tierces of
c "^ e " 9 nrtles Cotton, o bar
-11 it of C de,?, hi s freight and ex
f" - viert paid liir.i prrtiifijfltly
«*»«? grcatcfl atrenti n ... j.n.ice
lane life o! by 1 ije !h<eis of
g. a]i.l by ghe office.s «.f ihf
" er I.wlia, and by \jr R,,fce c
' ; '7, owner of ihe laid pri-
New^orv'
P-'>i tf-r n Vll
1"N w
V '"£ ! : J
•5NEW-YORK, July 9 .
Captain John Kanning of the brig'
Union, arrived on in 14
lisys from Cape-Krancois, gives us
ihe following melancholy particu
lars refpetfting the fate of that un
happy Island.
" On theiSth June the civil com
iniflioners, Mefl'is. Sonthonax and
Polverel, arrived at the Cape from
Port-au-Prince; they immediately
suspended M. Galbaud, the Govern
or and Commander of the troops at
that place, and sent him on board
Ihip; on the tßth a number of mu
latroes were encouraged by these
gentlemen to come into the town,
who by unfair means armed all the
negroes belonging to the citizens,
and encouraged thein toatfill ih de
ftroying the whites, which scene,
it is said, actually begun on the 20th
about noon, when a moil horrid
inafiacre ensued, neither women nor
children were (pared, upwards of
10,000 white inhabitants were but
chered, and about 2,£Gofaved tliem
fetves in the French and American
vefi'els in the harbor ; the wretches
then hegan to plunder the town—
after whiiith they set fire to it, and
on the 22J w hen Captain Fanning
failed, the burning was going on,
»ud there was only the church, go
vernment honf'e, de C a feme and
Gregarie saved ; they left there the
A neriqtie of 74 guns. Capt. Fan
ning failed in company with about
J{o tail of vertels, bound to differ
enr pons in America, under convoy
of two French 74s and 4 frigates,
who were bound, as supposed, tu
Bij/ton or Newport, so that we may
soon cxpetft to hear of their arrival,
On Sunday lad he fell in with the
Ambuscade, off jiarnegat, who de
tailed him for three hours, and
then ordered hiui to procecd on.
Capt. Fanning's regllter and all his
pajiers were burnt at the Cape.
Cape Francois was a neat well-built
city, the buildings chiefly of ilone,
said to be as large as New-Yoit.
The large church has escaped the
flames, being all of stone, and co
vered so as the fire cannot make a
ny impreffiou. The government
li .life biis fuiFered much 110111 tbe
cannon-(hot ; the fuldiery were still
engaged in fighting in town. It is
supposed that this difaflerous affair
proceeded entirely from the differ
ence between the tw'o cotnmiffioti
ers, who aff'nmed the power, and
Governor Galbaud, who thought his
rightful authoiity invaded. He
he-aded a number of sailors from the
ihips, who made thefirlt attack, and
repnlfed the mulattoes, but having
at hand a number of negroes with
arms, they repulsed the sailors and
whites.
Capt. fanning observes, that he
could have carried off loads of plun
der when he came away, as the in
habitants had left their houses and
property to lave their lives. Capt.
Fanning parted with the fleet the
30th Juue.
Philadelphia, July 15.
The President of the United
States arrived in town from the
Southward on Tlvurfday lnft.
The produce of the Circus this
DAY, is to be applied to the benefit
of the Poor.
The citizens of Baltimore have
appointed a committee of fix gen
tlemen, Frer.ch and American, to
devise ways and means of affording
succour and ) elief to the people si oui
Capc-Krancois.
The members of the French So
ciety of the friends of Liberty and
Equality, in this city, have a
l'pecial meeting for a like purpose ;
a fubfeription being opened, 800
dollars were lubfcribed immediate
ly—Theie has been a fpeciai meet
ing also of the French benevolent
Society, on the occalion.
'1 here cannot villain adotibt that
the sacred spirit «benev«lence,\vilt
catch from citv'o city thro' the
continent, till effectual provision is
made to fiiccor these unfortunate
fugitives from fire and sword.
The Earl of Dtinmore, Governor
«f the Bahamas, has iilued a pro
clamation allowing and permitting,
lor fix liu ntlis, comparing from the
11 til day of April last, into the ports
f Naffaiij Exnma, and TurkVl
■inds, as weil in foreign as Kritiih
loitoins, Ihe following f|>eci«> of
>Vovilions, viz. corn and and all
ions of grain and pulse, flour and
bread, rice, and every species of
fait provisions, - cattle, live itock,
arid lumber of all kinds.
On Sunday last arrived at Baltimore the (Hip
Atlantic, Captain Hugh Wilion, in 6 wecksftom
Lisbon ; by whom we learn, thai, when he Tail
ed, there was m that port, ready for sea, a fleet
of 16 ships of the line, which, it was reported,
was hound to Fcrrol— that the French AmbafTa
oor tailed from Lisbon to Havre-de-Grace in
the ihip Columbus, of this port—That French
men who were heard speaking favorably of
French politics, were immediately committed
toprifon That on tVe ad of May last, the
Princess royal was delivered of a daughter, on
which occasion every house in the city was
Splendidly illuminated for three nights, as was
also the lhipping in the harbor, and decorated
with the colours of different nations ; the ad
miral had 1000 lamps on board, and the leil in
proportion.
We learn from Baltimore that a French (hip
74 Buns8 uns arrived io Chefapeakebay,on Thurs
day week, from Cape-Francoia, and 5 bng of
20 guns, with 1100 passengers, bound into
Hampton road.—The brig Lily, of this place,
was the fame day off Cape Charles, with several
other vcfffls unknown.
On the 2gth ult, arrived at Norfolk, Virgtma,
the Spanish brigaritine S.tnta Catalina, a prize
to the French l'choonei Sans Parcil, Cspt. Bou
teilie, carrying i4sfwiveis, and 50 men. The
privateer was out from Cape-Fran«us,
and feil in with the Santa Catalina off tnc
mouth ot Mantanraz, leagues to the leeward
of the Havanna, loaded with ccdar and maho
gany for the king'? yard at the Havanna. On
beting ordered to strike to the Fiench Republic,
Ihe Spaniard said he would not ; when the pri
vateer immediately fired into her, and five men
were killed, and the captain and four men
jumped into the watci from out of the cabin
windows, and we*e drowned. The privateer
took 5 vessels that day (June 12) viz. the above
brig and lour fchooncrs. On the 13th they
cjplurcd an F.ngliPo brig from Jamaica, her
fir It voyage, loaded with rum and iugar, which
they sent into Charlcfton.
On Turfday arrived here, the schooner Cleo
patra, T. Williams, rnafter, from Spain, and last
from Coiunna, in 52 o.iys. By this veflel, we
learn, that on May ill, there had been an engage
ment between Sr. John de Luz and Fayonne, in
which the Spanifli forces had ma wkh a severe
rcpulfe, and were driven back to St. Johli de
Luz, which is on the frontieis ; a-nd in their re
treat they were obitru&ed by a river, and not
having a fuffieienr number of boats, they were
forced to fwim,and great numbers were drown
ed. The quarters of the Fr< nch army be
ing at Bayoi>ne, after the engagement the French
troops retired so 'hat place—their number in
that gariifoti confiitsof a formidable army.
It is reported, fays a c'ojrefpondejit, that
seven or eight British velTels have failed from
this port since the commencement of hostili
ties between France and England, with a
greater number of guns, Brc. than they had
on board when they arrived—and that this
has been known to the minister of France.—
However this may be, we do not hear that
any representation on the fubjeft has been
made to the executive of the United States— •
At any rate, we may reft atTured, that no
tr*irtfa6Hon whatever will be liiffered to pass
unnoticed on the part of the government,that
interferes with the ilri&eft neutrality on the
one hand, or an honorable recognition of the
rights of treaties on the other.
The following very exirjordirtatv observations
art* copied from a piecc (igned. " Jul a," in the
National Gazette of Wcdnefday la It. The at
tempt therein made, fays a correspondent, to
make a diltin&ion between the reople of the
United States and their own goVrrnnjent, is per
ktUy hollile to every rcpunlican idea ; and the
exhortation to the Minilter of France, is little
Ihort of a piopolitiou ta transfer ail trie powers
ol the executive to a foreigner. It is evident
from this fampie of the politic* of a certain
party, thai' their objc£t is a diAblution-of the
Union. the extract.
" The Minister of Fiance, I hope, will a£l
with tirmnelV and with fpmt. The people are
hi« friends, or the friends of France, and fie will
have nothing 10 apprehend ; lor as yet the peo
pic are the fovcreign of ti»e United States. Too
much complacency ifc an injury done his cause,
for as eveiy advantage iS al 1 t*kcn of Francc,
{not by the people) further condescension may
lead to further abuies. It. of the leading
features of our government is pufilUnimity,
\fhcn the Brinih lion (bow's his teeth, let France
and her mmiiler ast as becomes the dignity and
jufttce of their caule, and the bono* and faith of
nation*."
In the General Advertiser, who
very ptopeHy G<;ns hirnielf " a Jacobin," fays,
"Itis no poflible to doubt, that the
intention of -the executive of the United
State*, is to look upon the treaty of amity
and commerce which exills between France
and America as a nullity, and that they aie
preparing to join the Jeague of kings agamft
Fcanoe." What a gullti that can jwtUow this!
It may be that when the trea
ties with France were formed, it was said
that fonie of the articles were ambiguous.
This appears to bave bem a well .founded
for tho' it was well known that
„„r coininiffionei's would never have dared to
lhe«r their faces in this country, had they
mad, an exf!,c,th treaty-yet n now
appears, according tea lineal expohtlon, that
this was infolded to be tne tafit.
It may be laiely aftirn»c4, that the lies are
as ten to one in the account current ''t be
ween the friends and enemies ol ntutrtlili, t»
tlie debit of the latter.
467-
>MMI)NtC.ATIONS. •
The frienof neutrality compose the great
borijjf of l^e ople o* the United States ; of thjfs
truth there ,fuj| d< monfltation—indeed, a
contrary faction implies the exrttcnce of
the m °«yus absurdity.—For it is impot
fillle that an people should not dis
cern its best ijketf, when the whole world is
pouring its tr^ rcs j nto its bofom.—,A (lri6l
neutrality theni n the mouth of every one —but
in the hearts olf ew restless and uncafy fouls,
who will never vc peace while their country
is at reft, a cortty idea is chetilhed—Hence
the outrageous thj n gs againlt the declaration
of this general foment of the Union through
its proper rnedt)—hence the vile abuse of
those who take atmeafures to (hew that the
country is sincere its declarations.—We may
be neutral, but it dastardly conduit to fay so
—and the mercha, of America are the tools
of British emifTariin taking measures to se
cure to their coum and themselves the im
mense advantages a\ng from the Independence
and political the United State*!!
The honejly of th» who fay they are friends
to the neutrality rtf tUnited States, is striking
ly exemplified by tlfcbufe thrown on the Pre
hdent, merely for pr<aiming that neutrality.
A writer who pli s truth in a conspicuous
fi'uation may be sure having her daubed with,
the paltry produttion>f those who are made
uueitly at having their inorance and folly ex
posed.
It is not to be worthed at that those who
have been perpetually avork to excite sedition
and opposition to peace nd government in this
country, (hould be the 0\) persons who cry out
every meiafuretak) to preserve the peace
and neutrality of the Uted States during the
present European war. L the enemies of peace
and union, write, and rite, and write-let
them build a pyramid of h—let them a (Tail the
confidence of the people in government which
realizes to them all the ft,d bieflingsuf inde
pendence they enjoy ; wit 5U t which, that in
dependence would have fruitful parent
of all poflible mtfery to si peop!e of Ame
rica.——l fay, fays a coiefpondent, let all
this Icribling, and defaming and lyi'ig> form
the long columns of the vhicles of antife
deral slander, for weeks morhs and years in ;
fuccefhon—and all is very w.H,— But, if the
vllainy of these c9nnter-revo!hiuniJls~, who are
ltriving to bring the people bak to the degrad
ing periads ot committec-me t anarchy and
diilrefs, fliould b<* exposed—is the thing's that
make for the tailing peace and ptofpetity of the
people are set before their eyes, in a uriking
point of vie the fallacy of those principles
is unfolded, the weakness of thit judgment ex
posed, and the incompetency oi those systems
developed, which the enemies of ouc govern
ment o-ppofe to experience and fSs— a hue and
cry is tailed—and we hear the mod pitiable
lamentations concerning long-vinded tffays,
and labored inveftigitions J The wrif hings of the
Serpent however, shew that he is mortally
wounded.
At this important crisis, what would have
been the fate of this .country, had tot the infi
nitely wife arbiter of the fate of nations previoul
ly inspired the people of tiie United Statce to
adopt the New-Conil tution ?
If wc are to be saved from the horrors of war,
it will be owiug to the confidence of the people
in the wifdonr of the government—if not, but
patriotism spurns the idea—although the infer
nally wicked sentiment has been broached, that
tfie people and the government have different in
tereits.
ADVERTISEMENT. &
Shortly to be publilhed, an impartial account
of the chara&ers, principles and prattics of the
Group—or Knot of politicians to whom the
people of the United Smes are indghied lor all
that mass of political slander ihey
have been favored since the month of January
last.
This work will be highly interesting, as it
>vill serve to developc the secret fprmgs of a£ti
o« in those who never fubferibed to the decla-
Independence, in which there is this
abominable expreHion, That the' UnitecWitates
will consider the people of Great-Bi itain as they
do the refl of the world—" Enemies in war—
in peace Friends"—lt will shew that " Peace,
Liberty and Safety/' now the envied lot of this
happy country, never were the obje£l of these
persons, in the late war—but a bjpid, inveterate
anil eternal war with the people ot Britain —It
will also explain the motives of that rancor,
which these persons hold towards the men who
were the inftmmems of securing the liberties of
America, anil countnnng our independence on
the bafu of a glorious peace-—whoxn, tor these
tlung& they will never forgive.—lt will explain
the principles of that opposition to the new con-
Uitutiou, and of the admnnftratiori formed under
its auipiccs; which alone gives btrrh toevery unfa
vorable idea that foils the annals of the United
Slates. An opposition which is bred in the bonr of
certain perlons among us, who never could find
the center of gravity tor their posteriors, since
chairs weie fiiit in iaftjion. Thus far the work,
will have reference to native malcontents.
The second part will relate to a few geniuses,
whom the denon of dtlcoid has transplanted
into this foil of freedom—as thorns in the fields
of America, »o repress the exuberance of our
growth.—This will bf the mott wretched part
of the whole produ&ion—as our author cannot
cdvance one step, without encountering the
whole legion of ingratitude, falfhood, pcrjpry,
rogueiy, impudence and.ignorance. The whole
to conclude wiih a fertous and difpaflionate ad
dress to the Uodcrftanding ot the people of the
United Slates—io which it will be (hewn, that
there is the highest rep (on tofuppofe, thai those
who enjoyed their confidence in the 41 Times
that tried Mcu# Sou!i,"and have since di[cover
ed their abilities and patriotism, by promoting
the bed ittlfrefts of their country in every pofli
ble dire&ton—are piobably as good friends of
the people, as men who h-iveuniformly oppofea
every step towards a f\ab!e and yiii government
—or, as per font who know not uj—and of whom
it be fatd, that it would have been happy
il wc had u&vtr them.
Sang at Etiuiielh- Town, A\ f. at i. ' ucttbvxtiua
Independence, j-ulv 4,
Tune—" Rule Uritaw
WJiEN eatil'd Freedoms (oic'fi .0
Sought reiugc 011 Colu>ubiu,\ lUores,
ThcJovely wand'rer found a home.
And this the Day that made Her ours.
Hail Columbia 1 Columbia haii ! ta, 1 ha t
The pyaifc is due thdt MAN IS FREE !
In, her defence, tl)e patriot crowd*
Kufh'd to the field, and fiown'd on Death i
They fcal'd her triumphs with their blood,
And hail'd her with their dying breath.
Ha i I Colu mb ia % &c.
'Twas not Columbia'scaufe alt>ne ;
At stake, the Rights of Mankind lay :
That cause, (ball diltant Nations own,
And hail, with joy, this teftive Day.
Hail Columbia, &c.
'T1 s» the Worlds Day-Star, and l"haII last
Tilt Slav'ry's Shadows be withdra *rn :
And lo! that Night is almolt pa It,
And Europe's Day begins to dawn.
Hail Columbia, i3c.
How bright will be its noon-tide ray 1
When Uviverjal Freedom reigns ;
When not a Oefpot clouds the day,
And not a Slave on earth remains.
Hail Columbia, &c.
Mankind fball ne'er this Day forget,
Its brave Defenders' worth (ball own ;
Shall love the Mem'ry ot FAYETTE,
And (bout the Name of WASHINGTON,
Hail Columbia,
BOOKSELLERS' toasts.
THE Company of Booksellers ot' Dubiirt
lately dined together, when the follow
ing toasts were drank
1. The King's and all the gnat heads of the
empire. 2. Fertility to brains and infatiabie
appetites to curiosity. 3- A literary war, a
fniart press, and devaftationto iidc and paper.
4. Empty ftoiiiachij attic apartments and
clear intellects to the republic of author*
j. Dr. Prieitly, and the whole society ofbook
wrights. 6. Mr. Burke and his friends, and
perpetual Paine to them. 7. The liberty ot
the press, and the press ot liberty. 8, Mr.
Pitt's works bound in Turkey, with RutTian
bands. 9. The enemies of Ireland bound in
Morocco, to. Our favorite volumes in Jhcets.
11. Combustion to the libraries oi Ireland.
12. May every wit wart his dinner who wont
dig in his brains for it. IJ. Perpetual war
amonglt the pamphleteers. >4. 'I he triple
alliance of ink, paperand calt-ikin. 15. The
memory of Dr. Fauftus, and prosperity to the
black-art. 16. The intrigues of PariMiius—
the foundling hospital for wit, and rbe accou
cheurs of the mules. J7- May the llomachs
of the epicures be transferred to their beads,
that intellect may teed while gluttony does
penance. 18. Tbe enemies of Ireland out of
print, and no new edition. 19. A handsome
preface, ingenious introduction, good title,
bold impression, strong binding, and general
circulation to friendlhip and hospitality.
Plalaiidphia, July 9' 1733
AT a meeting of a number of Citizens, to
consult ou measures for the relief of thcdiibed
ed citizens of Cape-Francois, arrived and OJ£-
pt£led to arrive in this city.
JOHN WILCOCKS in the Chair.
It was proposed that nine perlons be a com
mittee to enquire into the ctrcumftances, and
ascertain the numbers of the persons to be re
lieved.
The following gentlemen were accordingly
appointed :
Peter S, Duponcqau, Jacob Shoemaker, J3itk s„
Vanuxem, Ambrose Vatfe, Peter Lcmaigre,
John G. Wachfmuth, Johu Vtughan, Andrew
Petit, and Robert J*alfton.
Who are authonfed to afford temporary re
lief, and be reimbursed out of the contributions
to be raised hereafter.
The foregoing committee are requested to
make report of their enquiries to the Chairman,
who, with the advice of the committee, will call
a general meeting of the citizens when occafioa
may raju'Jc.
Publiftied by ordfcr of the meeting,
Robert Ralston, SccVy.
The manufa&ure of Morocco-Leather has
been brought to a high degree of*perfection in
this state. The red, black, green, and other
colours of Morocco-Leather which is now
exposed for fa (e, and was manufactured by Mr.
David Callagha*,merchant in this city, is said to
exceed any imported from Turkey. The
expence which has been incurred in bringing
this manufacture to its preterit date, is very
considerable, and Weil worthy government*
encouragement.
otheT manvfaAarcs eftab'jlhed in
feveral.of the liates, delet»• to be noticed,
particularly that of (hot, by Mr. bttpkcu AuJ•
tin; for in tilts, as well, as many other ufciul
undertakings, tile flrftexpencehas been great,
and as there can be little doubt but that this
article wiilbefurnifbed at a cheaper rate than
any imparted, we hop* to fca merit und iji
duflry <juiy r«w,t/dfd.
The Bojioa papers printed lajf Saturday and
Monday, due b) the Mail of ye ft er day, mere not then
received. ll r e are at a tojs to account jot their jai
iure~u)hcthtr it is ou-ing to any negligence on the
purt of the printeror iu their detention At the Pcji-
Cffieein New-York.
It is to he regretted, that one objeS in the Pojl-
Office by whith the Mails pajs with Jo
much celerity betiueen thu city and 80/lon, Jhou/d, at
this interefling moment, be so frequently defeated.
Extract's front the Laws of the t( Aflo
ciated Reformers, &x." (ball appear in our.
next.
PRICE OF STOCKS
6 per Cer.l«»
3 per C"uu,
Deferred,
FjII fliare* Baifk'»U. S.
»7-9
9; iq
10,'g
i.xu. «uvTHOMAS IU'KICN, SAVID
bTUAXr&BgNteL CAXtibLL ',
Efquir/s t ' ,*f'/
Comm :ssinl fc.*i Jl»
prepare ihr Publitllic
Cny of H'ajfringtjtii, lot ftw.vfcepiuAoi Cnn
grefs, and for vheir p*fri>(iAßk rrfidtiicr *her
ilie • >4
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal Clty.
Tickcts at 7 doli»ri,trr 350,000 dollari
LIST OF PRIZES, Viz.
s Sopcib Hotel, with baths, )
out house*, &C.&C. to cost $ '
i Cash Prize 25,000
1 ditto
15x00
10,000
10,C30
io,oco
10, coo
I0 ; 0C0
10,000
jO,CCO
20,CC0
150,00©
1 dit!o
1 ditto
2 ditto
jo ditto
20 ditto
joo ditto
200 ditto
400 di '.to
1,000 ditto
ditto
£,000 are
1,000
- s°°.
too
5°
■*5
. 20
16,737 Prizes
33,263.Blanks
>■ <
v 'Z'
30,000
By this scheme at leqjl the amount oft he tick
ets will return to the fortutl-ite adventuiers, and
yet the frdeiftl City will gain its ol>je£t theicby,
in a magnificent building designed both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although feme ex pence mufl nccrfTsrily at
tend the conducing of the lottery, (which ex
pence will be taken from the principal prize) the
Coinmiflioneis having a greed to present in re
turn a fufficient quantity of excellent ftee-ftone,
tog'ther with the bell adapted lots for the hotel
and for the out-houfes, the value of the lottery
entire may be fairly rated at fowething more than
par : In this important tnilnnce it will be fouud,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other country. The keys of the
Hotel, when complex will he delivered to the
fortunate poffefTcr of the ticket drawn aagaiuft
its number. — All the other prizes will be paid,
■withoutdedufiion,in one month after the drawing, by
the City Treasurer at Walhington,- or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for theconvenicncy of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will coinmencc on Monday the
6th of Septembei next, at the City of Walhing
ton.
Tickets mav be had of Col. Wm. City
Treasurer of Washington ; Thater & Martlet, of
Charleston, South-Carolina; Gideon Denijon, Sa
vannah ; Melfrs. James Wejl 3 Co. Baktmoie;
Mr. Peter Oilman, Bolton; and at such other
places as will be hereafter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
lae given for the best Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and told
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if trefented
on or hc(ors the 10th of April next', and a nr«-
ference will be given to the Artist for a Con
trad}, prrvHed he be duly qualified to
compleat h;s plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be ere&ed, will
he a corner lot of about 90 by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the ikables, See. Sections a«d
cftimates of the ex pen fe will be expe£lcd
wiihtbe elevations, See. com pleat ; and 50,000
dollars inuft be regarded by the Architect as the
utmost limit in the expense intended for this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
March, 61793
FOR SALE, BY
MATHEW CAREY,
At his Sicre, No. 118, Market-ftreef,
PHILADILPHIA,
THE AMERICAN MUSEUM, from its
commencement in January,' 1787, to its
termination in December, 1792, in twelve vo
lumes, price, neatly hound and lettert d t nine
teen dollars and one fifth.
The opinion of the President of the United
Stare l ?, refprfting this work, is as follows -
" I bc4icve the American Museum has met
wit h extensive, I may fay, with univerlal ap
probation from competent judges ; for I am of
opinion, that the woik is not only eminently
calculated io difleminate political, agricultural,
philosophical, and other valuable information ;
But that it has been uniformly conduced with ta/lc,
Attention, arid propriety. If to thefc important
objc&s be fupri added the more immediate dc
fign of rcfcuiog public documents from obli
vion—l will venture to pronounce, as my (en
timent, that a more usetul literary
PLAN HAS. NEVER BEEN UNDERTAKEN £*}
America, or one more deserving of rus-
LIC ENCOURAGEMENT."
June 5.
GENERAL POST.Ot'FfCE,
Philadelphia, May 27, I 793.
500 Dollars Reward.
a certain THOMAS SLOiS
VV GANTT, has lately made his cfcapc
from Baltimore County Gaol, to which he was
committed under a charge of having robbed the
Eaftcrn Mai), on the 28th day of January last :
Notice is hereby given, that a reward of fi\«t
hundred dollars wtll be paid at this OfHcc, to
any per Con or per fans who Poall apprehend the
f&i# T/JorMi S/iifj Gatiltr&*<\ deliver him into the
cirftoSy of ifr*r keeper «»f. she said G»ol lr or»into
the eullod*/ of cither of the Mnrfh.als within the
United States, so thatthefaid ThuW&t Sfafs Gantt
may be cffi iludlJy secured, and torth coming to
answer the above mentioned charge!
TIMOTHY PICKERING,.
Pojl-Majicr General.
The following i?-a description of the above
name.'' Thomas Sit»u(?ANTT: He is ?bout
fix fee, fligh, flr;'it and well made, has light co
loured heir, iud behind, l?ir complexion and
bas a down look when fpo!;cn to.
EANK of ihi UNITED SATiIS.
'713-
; herehy given ihat" rc w ' ,f
i\ jprf'tl at the Uank. iiicr the i 1 10
thr v. illlMlJcrjrtTtb. tr du >
imtrii'iKtj, FOURTEEN' DfLARo ai.d
FIF I YXENTS lor each Share, '«g '«
dead dicfcieti for the last l\x uj l h*»
By order,
er 3 w JOHN C-ifliicr.
INSURANCE COPANY.
Philadilpmi J u| y '"> '7s3*
NOTICE is b< reby given members ot
the liifurancc Company' North Ameri
ca, that the Diriftors have </'a'ed a <i' v " ie "
(to this day) of fix per cent he amount of the
si.st instalment, and of one («nt p. r month,
on the sums paid towards jiccond and 1 »ir
calculating frd 6a y o
the month following that /which these pay
ments were made. The ridtnd will be paid
tfl the Stockholders or theßeptefcniativea, at
the Company'. Office, (N »>9- -° ulh F ' olU *
Stiect) at «»v time aftrr «' 7'' n "- _
LBLNFZE» AZARD, Sec ry.
fTT As llu mmlen «4" r "" much
disposed Usd the I > inters
in theJ'evcra!flate* (fre refill tit oiove a
place in their new/papers.
RU £ S
To be observed in trapping Business with the
Infu ran c e C o mp any
OF NORT-AMERICA.
i ft. A I.L orders f« Jnfurance must be given
t\ in by the applicant;
and as minute a of the vellel is ex
pected, as the per foryrdrring thennfurance can
give, refpe&ing her je, built, how found and
fitted, and whether puble or fingl" decked.
2d. AH policies *H be ready tor delivery in
twenty-four hours the order tor iHlurance
is accepted at the and the policy mull be
taken up in ten da<
3d. Notrs, wiilin approved endorfei, for all
premiums, mud b f given in ten days, payable
as follows :
For Americanand Weft-India riftjnes, in
three r onths aft< the date of the policy.
For European ifques, in fix months.
For Ind<a and China rifqnes, in 13 month*.
For rifquesbythe year, in eight months.
For rifqftesfo fix months, in fonr months.
And for rifqijei for any letter time, in three
month?,
4th. Lofies will be paid in ten days after proof
and adjustment; l>ut if the note given for the
premium fliall rrt have become due within that
time, the Amouit of it (hall, nevertheless, be de
duced from tlu loss to be paid.
Dollars 350,000
The Insurance Company of North-America
hereby give notice to all whom it may concern,
that, agrerablyto ilie above rules, tbcv are ready
to rcccive all orders .for infaranc?, which may
be add re fled m ihem, accompanied with direc
tions to some responsible houfe'iti Philadelphia
for the payment of the premiums within the
tim« limited.
In cafe the rifqucs offered fliall be aporoved,
the infuranre shall be* immediately cffr&ed ;
otherwise notice (hall be given, cither by anlwer
to the person applying, ono his agent, in Phila
delphia, as mav be ordered. *
Bv order of the Dirr&ors,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
4 W
J u| y 3
NOTICE.
THE STOCKHOLDERS in the SOCIETY
fur ESTABLISHING USEFUI. MANU
FACTURES, are requested to take notice, th;it
the fourth and last payment it due, and mult he
made on or before the ] 3; h day of July next,
e'ther tn tb« of the United States Bank
Office ol Discount and Depofic at Nrw-Yotk—
the Caflnrr of the Bank of New-Yoik—the
Cashier of the Bank of the United States in Pl>i
ladclphia*-or John Bayard, Esq. in the city of
New-Brunl'wick, in the (late of New-Jerfcy.—
And that the Hi.res of all peifons nefrie&tng to
nuke luch payment, and the monies by them
previously paid, tvill then be forfeited for the
common benefit of the said foeiety.
That the fubfci :ber is duly authorized to make
the requisite indoifments upon the certificates of
fliare*. and that books of transfer are opened at
his office in Front-street.
NICHOLAS LOVT.
New-York, June 12, 1 7 fcpu3 )
■*. City of Waihington.
7ih, 1793.
A NUMBER of this City will be-of
£\. fcred tor sale at iuflion, by the Commif
on I he 17'h day of September next.—
One foimb part of the purchase money is ro be
paid doiyn, the refiducat three equal annual pay
ments with yearly itrtcreft on the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Con'rs.
Extract of an Afl of the General Aflembly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Waftiington.
" Be it en2ttcd, That any foreigner may by
deed or will, hereafter to le made', take and hold lands
withrn that part oj theJaid Territory which lies with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen oj this Slate ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by him, and tranfmittci to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, aj if he and they were citizens
of thi) State : Provided, That no foreigner ft,air,
in virtue hereof be entitled to any further or other
privilege of a citizen."
I'n. 19.
OF THE
City of Walhington,
Solr! by the Booksellers,
DOH SO V, CAREY. YOU KG, & CRUKSH.INK.
tickets
in ihe Federal city lottery,
May be lud at SAMUEL •COOPliK'i Ferry v
PLANS
468
To the Public- j
EdKor oftbe GxzEtTt 1 >' K ' IFC
* States, proposes publiftiing th-» Paper,
under that Title, every Evening, Sunday's
excepted.
To render it interring as a Dai.y 1 übli
cation, it shall contain foreign and domestic,
commercial and politica) Intelligence :-E,-
fays and Observations, local and general
Maritime information : -Prices Current of
Merchandized the Public Funds. Alio a
summary of m: proceedings ofCongrefs, and
of the Legislature of this State with a ,
sketch ofGongreffiortal Debates, &c.
Advertizing favors will be gratefully re
ceived - terms.
To be printed on paper of the demy size ;
but a larger rtze (hall be substituted in Decern
ber next.
The price Six Dollars per Annum, to be
paid half Yearly.
When a Sufficient number of Subscribers is
obtained, the Publication stall commence.
In the interim, the Gazette will be publish
ed twice a week as ti.fual,— Subscriptions pre
refpcftfully Solicited by the Public's humble
~ Tmm[ JOHN FENNO.
Sxbfcriptioits are received at the City Tavern,
South Second Street—by Mr. Dcbfon; at the sfwe
Jfoufe —by other perjons who are i" poffejjion ojjub
fcriptioK -papers, aid iy the Edtto* at his noufe,
No. 34, North Fijth-Strut.
Philadelphia, July, 1793,
TUB EDITOR
MOST tarncjlly requejls thofeofhis dijar.t Svb
fcribers who art in arrearsJor the Gazette, to make
payment as soon at pvljible.—Tlioje persons zdlio have
re'crivedfubfeription voney ov his accovnt are iefired
to remit the fame. The arrearages Jor the Gazette
have accumu'jted to ajerious amount—Serious, as
t/iev are the onh resource to iifehargc very serious
engagements incurred in the prosecution of this ex
pensive pMicatiov. Philadrlphie, June -ih.
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprietors of the GUfs-Manufactory, under
the Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
B£C lccve'to inform flic public, t(j»' they have
now brought their WINDOW-GLASS to
fuchperfe&iotV, ai will be found, 00 comparison,
to be equal, in quality, to the bfcft London
Crown GUff.
Having fixed their piir.es at a lower rate than
imported Glass, they are induced to believe, that
importations of this article will be discontinued,
in proportion as their works are ex'ended.—
They pro ( pofe to enlarge the scale of this busi
ness, and as the success of it will depend on the
patriotic fupportof the public, they beg leave to
solicit their friendly patronage in the pursuit of
a branch which will intcrcft every lover of
American Manufactures.
All orders for Window-Glass, of any size,
will be received at the Store of Rhodes and
MacGrigor, No. 234, Oneen-ftrcet, New-
York, and at the Glass Wa'ehoufe, No. 48,
Markct-ftrert, Albany, which will be pun&ually
attended to.
-WANTED, fix smart aflive LADS, not
exceeding 16 vrarsof age, m be indented as
Apprentices, and 'regularly, inftiufled in the
variout hrjpchrsof <G)a(V.!Wakrng. •'
Also, ih»ee Window. Glaft Maker;, to whom
great encouragement will be given
1,1793,
TO THE PUBLIC.
(fST THE Editor proptfes to continue the
publication oj the Gazette of the United
States , Jot dijlanl circulation, after the JitJl of
December next, on the Joilvtvtng terms, viz.
It Jhall be publifhcd on Wednesdays and
Saturdays, on paper oj the Medium si
is larger than the ptefent.
The price, Three Dollars per annum,exclufive
of postage.
Subscriptions to be received by the refpidive Tell.
Majlers throughout the Union,' or such other per lons
as may fee proper to colled them.
The papers to be forwarded by pojl twice a ueek.
Ao packets to contain lef, than six papers—and no
fubjepttons to be received for a less term than fix
months.—Paymerts to be coriflantly fx months in
advance—Twenty per cent. deduOion from the trice
of the Gazette, will be allowed to thofr who ro/J
teCl and forward the fubferiptien nonev, free of ex
pense, tnfull oj all charges for their trouble 'in the
bujnefs.
The publication will contain as rfual, a varied of
origtnal ejays—foreign and dom-Jlic
and a summary of the proceedings of the Leg,ilature
of the Union, &c. &c. Attention will be paid
to dfpatching the papers with punauality, avd Sub-
Jcrtbers may depend on receiving them as refularh
as the pofl > arrive. J
J "TIC 8.
Hercule De Sercey,
-V a- ' 'J l '"* "f st - Domivgo,
IYJLPornDgc, Cu I „,Ste w .Pa, IS , La,n,> J s , &e!
Ifn if a " r J'P=»"cd-He also mendi old
tin work. Ashe v»oiks chcap, he hopes for the
public encouragement. V *
No. 23. Raco.ftn.tt, near l'ron.-flrcet
9.2.
_ hekcule de sercey,
Tj lile de t'availle
U en fc, Bliinc, de tonte loiu de manierc'
commande n 3 bon inarchc. a
A Philadelpbic, cc« 2 J„in.
Ao. 23, Race-It,««, '
/asvrv a th ki ■■ aT.;• '.V
HHSSSSC3BS^.*I*M
.wc-tias. -»
IKtifctfrgh.ic
the rnmith of Big B«»»i»*J»Wti«"»
«rf Big Beaver &*A.
o. Atany Aseor .
iq The bid Bigger,
the upper frift. r " v ' r ' -.■
4, fs.Tf~e"ify pt«cc«r plw.e» 'romUWdf^fj^^^^^B
f.Ui<b.MihoniH^<»^
e> At any place °[ P' 0 "' f t°J"
hojlingover to the *W
Cavabrma, and at tfee fiiid
[ 6. Al any place or places
fljvigMina io the month of thejtid ™v«
II any pfo<* o?.»la«ibet*>sft
ijof the Bir io the moo<h
Ftiver MufkingotPi'JWw®.?
f Srufcaro«»s, and attWc Tufcarowv, and
lover to the Cayatmga i iter, and thence <}ov.n
! laid river ro its mouth.
.' 8* At any place or places betwixt tM
e i>f the fiver Mufkingum and the mouth of
"Stieto river, uiij at; the mouth of the said
I Scioto. . -t\c:
MQ. At any P la« o^c«^w>xt^«
i l>f Scioto river &the :nouW)f*he GHrtt MnraH^H
it the month of the Great Mi«»V * n «
! lh«tice*«> ih« £»U»of thf
■ |i ihc faiil ?apitf $. , c
* io. At any p!a*e or places betwixt
■ ,fthe Great Miami, up the said Miami toaud^^^H
■ it Pique Town.
11. At any < place or places (rom.^tt
| Ingtoo to fort Hamilton, and at Fort
f M place or placet from Fort
. W St. Crair, and ,t Fort _
12. At any place rtt PtfnSf.
•. t» Fort jrffcrfon, and al Fort Jrifetfotii' ■_ -
13. At any place or places from Fort
U the fii,Ui of action of the 4th of
1791, and at the said field ol a£li«n.
14. At any place or places fiom f *'°
■ of a&ion t6 the Miami Villages.* and At
Miami ViUagc*. - '*>•'
15. A( any plaqe or placet from the
ami. Villages to the ialls of ihc Miami
which riTiptirs Kric, «nd
. falls, and from Ul<n<Mtbils mo«J IHj ari& *t
, mnnih. -
16. At any place qr placci from
- the (aid Miami rivrr of
Lake, and Sandufky Lake. ' "
1.7. At any p!arc or places Irnm the'fiid
dality Lake, to the mmrth of the 1 iVtr Ckr
I 18. At any place from ibe
I the said river Cuyahoga to frjfquc I^e,
79 At any places ffotH*
to 'he stream running iniq Lake
wards the Lake, and (.hcfICPWC|
. and al the laid Jadaghquc L^ke,an<>
the Alleghany river to Fort Franklin. '
20. Aljiny place or places fioru f rtfflae
to I.e Beuf, and crt Le'lieuf. '
at. At any place or placet from L;£euf
Fort franklin, and at Fort FrardUin, ai)*^
. thence to Put-nsurgh. .]'
21. M,tay place rfr placet friom the .Vtjiid^
the Qhib'Mi (he mouth of the r W'abafl^h^i , , v
from the mouth ot the .said Wahafbr
mouih of the 1 ivcr Ohio. .
53.'At my place or places on theXatft
the rrv'er Mifiiflippt, from the mouth of tHe
river, so the month of the Illinois rivfr. ' '
54. At any plaee or placet from
'he la d, Wahafh rirer up to Fort Knox',
Fort Knox. .
25. At any place or places froirifojt
thefaid W'ahalh to Ouittanon, anel*atOuitt^nil4^^^^^^^|
26. At anv place or places from
up the said to the head
branch thereof called Little River, and
said head navigation of Little River.
ty. At any phre or pfacrs frontihe fold
navijatioii of Little River over to the Kiaoti
>8. At any place or placesfromthe
the river to
on the said river, inclusively. ' 'm
99. At any place or placetfrom the momhnf
the river Cumi)frland to Nafhvidlc, j>n tlw
river, and at NalhviJle., -u^
30. And at any place or.places witbttt
miles ot said NvfhvilleW'im; Soulhwarcj,
ward or Northward thereof ,yi
Should any rations be requited at any plant*,
or withtfl other diftrifls, not Fpecified in
proposals, the price of the fame to be hereafter
agreed o» betWixt the public and the eomraß<j»i«|^^^^B
The rations to be fupplted art to consist
rfollowing..articlcs,vi?.
I)ne bread or flour,
One pound ot bed, or jof a pound of pork, .
One quart of fait, V
Mwo.quartsor vinezar, /' ' ¥• ; »,''
Two pounds of soap, > per 100 rations.
One pound ofpandles, - , c..
The rations'are to be fui nidied in such toanti"*:
ties as 1 hat there Ihall at ail limes, duri»gthe'fai4
terin, be fufficient tor the eonfumpiibft of
troops at each ot the said ports, it ,"
lealt 3,mpoths in advance, in S ood and
tome provtfions, if the lame shall be rcqoirtd,' Si
r ''."'j in each cafe,that alllciSifi .
luftained by the depredations of the enemv, or by
means ofthe troopsof the L'nited Siafrs, Ifaatl '
paid for si the piicet of tbe anides wturrd or ;
deflroyea, on the deprfuK. of i w<) . „ r mot*' ,
creditable rharactcrs, a'rijjthe certificate of » ;
commiflioticd Officer, afccrtaini»'g.;cjie. tircuhi»'
lances of the lofc, and the ameuJßtfthe tHiclil '
torvvhich coßi P er,raii, m j s cliir'iiaf ' < ,'
• The contract soy the abo.ajßpolie, wiltrt ,
made either so, eve year, or M may ]
appear eli ß ,blc? Per lon, difprrfWi r„ cantraik '
will therefore confine their .Jfcrt tooncyear.or 1 '
iey may rnakethtir propoKii^ti^.foas toadrait 1 j
ln l'r '™ o1 'be terni ol iwo yea's. i
be offers may cor'prife ?l| ibe plarej whi«h f]
have l«en fpec;fr cd ; er , psn 0 , lllt " m 0Il! „. • i
rot?w
A!