' ' ■ ! 'i'Xi/ui.y4 T '
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FI FTH-STRF&T, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 130 of Vol. IV.]
FOR TIIF. GAZETTE.
"■ " ' ■ T
Mk. Fenno,
Please to give a place in yo T tr Ca?ttlc to the fpf(ow
i//g observations. Ttt /'>inters who tuay have re
pirMiJhed the pieces, ft pert Pucivicvs, are a'fo
'rtqucflfd to re-pubhjfi theje, and iviif no doubt be
candid enough to do jo
Number 1.
\Conchtded) from our last.]
ANOTHER important inference to be no
ted i*, that the powers of making war and
treaty being fub&mtVify of a Utgiflative, not
an executive nature, the rule of interpreting.-ex
ceptions fttiiftly, muft> narrow inftehd. of en
larging executive pretentions on those fuhje&s,.
3, It remains to tye enquired whether there
In? any thing in the constitution irfelf which
fl'.ews that the ot makiug war and peace
are confidsretf as of an executive nature, and
s*s comprehended within a<general grant of exe*
C utive power.
Ic will not be-pretended that this appears from
any dircß petition to be found in the inftruntent.
If it were dcJucitle from any particular ex
p reffious it may be prefumusd that the pubHca
ti on would have saved us the trouble of the re
i't ;arch.
Docs the do4lrtne then tefult from the a An
al distribution of powers aniaug the fcveral
branches of the government ? Or from any fair
ai lalogy between the powers of war and treaty
ajad the enumerated powers veiled in execu
te iVe alone ?
Let us examine.
In the general diftrihution of powers, we
f ipd that of declaring war expr«£sly veiled in '
Ihe Congress, where every other legislative
j >ower is declared to be veiled, and without any
other qualification than what is common to ev
{••ry other legislative a&. The constitutional
idea of this power would seem then- clearly to
fctt, that it-isol a legiilative and not an exec ac
tive nature.
This' cbncluGon become* irrrfiftable, when
Jl: is recollecfted, that the contention cannot be
si jppofed to hive placed either any power legi
j) ative ill its nature, entirely among executive
j .owers, or anypower executive in its nature,
« nriieiy among legiflativepowers, without char
-5 'Uijj the constitution, with that kind of inter
mixture and eotnfoiidation of different powers,
vhich Would viola.'a a fundamental principle in
the organization of free governments, If it
i vere not unnecessary to enlarge on this topic
I lere, it could be (hewn, that the constitution
1 vas originally vindicated, and has been con
-1 iaatly expounded, with a dUavowal of any fucb
1 nrerniixture.
The power ol treaties is vefled jointly in
I he Prelidcnt and *. the Senate, which is a
(branch of the legifl'tire, From this arran£e
jmcnt merely, there N can be no inference that
1 votild ceceffintfp «;:cl*dje the power from the
i xzcutjre cl»fs i liuce t!se filiate i» joined with
J'ttcPi fi'li it in another wower, that of appoint
ing to offices, which as far as relate to exetu
ti ve offices at ieart, is considered as of au exe-
Ci .tive natiire. . Yet on the other hand, there
it t fufficicnt indications thtit the power of trea
ties w regarded by the constitution as jiiateriat
ly different ii winners «xacu.tL»e power, and as
viqg more affinity to the legislative than to
t"( . executive charactcr.
Onecircumftance indScatiug this, lsthe'con
fllttitional regulation under which the fen-ate
I ive their .content in the cafe of treaties. In
a il other clrfe* the eo»*fent of the tyody is exprcf
i;<l by a majority of vuicci. In this particular
c ale',' a c incurrence of two thirds at least is
s vide insceflary, as a substitute or compensation
the other branch of the tagiflature, which
on certain occasions, codlJ not be conveniently
a party to the tram£i&ion.
But the coiuciufivfe tinea raftaziee is, that trea
ties according to the eonftitirtion
4it mode, ;ire coufeflcdly to have the force and
•operation of laivs y and are to be a rule for the
courts ui controyeifics between man and man,
as much as anv othe- laivs. They are even em
phatically declared by the constitution to be
gt the foprcflTic law of the land.'*
So far tht; argument from the constitution is
precifeiy in oppoQtitm to the dosrine. As lit
tle will be gamed in its favour fropi a compa
rison of the two powers,with those particular
ly veiled in the President alone.
As there are bat few it wifl tie most fatisfac
tnry to review them one by one.
4t The President shall be commander in chief
of the army and navy of the United States,
an»d of the militia when called into the a&ual
lcrvice of the United States."
There can he no relation worth examining
between this power and the general power of
makiijg treaties. .'And instead of being analo
gou«to the power of declaring war, it affords
a striking i!luft?atien of the incompat bility of
the two powers in the fame hands. Those who
are to a irar cannot in the nature of
be proper or fate judges., *vhe her a
iitfr ought to Ue cornnienctd, or conclud
ed. They are barred from the latter fun<2ions
by a,gfeat principle in free .govern ment, analo
gous to that which fcpaxates rile fwoid from the
Wednesday, Au
purse, or the power of executing from the " exeitfon of the TtnAJwft*
power M ena<3ing laws. Are contrails with foreign nations, which
"He may require the. opinion in writing of •" have the fane of law, but derive it from
the principal officers in each of the executive " obligation* of good faith. They are not
departments upon any fubjeA relating to th& •' rules prescribed by the sovereign to thefub
duties of their n.-i'pedtive officcs; and he (hail " jed, but agreements between sovereign and
have power to grant reprieves and pardons for " fowereign; The power in question seems
offcneos agfiinft the United States, except iu " therefore to form a diftinift department, and
caXe.of impeachment" thtfe.powers cau have "to belong properly neither to the legislative
nothing to do with the lubjeit. " nprtothe executive. The qiialitieielfewfrure
" Thv Prdident jhali have power to fill up ill detailed as ind-.fpt'nfible in the management
vacancies that may happen during, the receft of "of foreign pbint out the execu
the fenafe, by granting cummiflions which (hall " five as the most fit agent in thofc trahfaili
• expire at the end of the N ne*t The ons : whilst the vast importance of the trufl,
fame remark is applicable to this power, as alio " and the operation of treaties as la-ws, plead
to that of " iimbaifadors, other pub- " itrongly for.the participation of the whole or
lie ministers and consuls" tbe particular use " a part-os tfce legi/lativi body, in the office of
attempted to be made of this iaft power will " nultiijg theiv." Fedpraliit vol. 2. p. 173,
be considered in anotnerpla.ee. It will not fail to be remarked on this com
"He (hall take care that the laws shall be mentary, that whatever doubts may be darted
faithfully executed and (liall commiflion all ofii- as to the correAnefs of its realigning against th«
cers of the Unjted States." To fee the laws legiflarive nature of the power to make treaties:
faithfully executed constitutes the effente of, the it is dcttr xrmftjltnt and confident, in deciding that
executive (authority. But what, relation has it the power is plainly and evidently not an execu
to the power of making treaties and war, that live foioer. HHiyVIDIUS.
is, of determining what the laivs jhull be with — , , „
r;gard t,O other nations? No other certainly
th.m what subsists between the powers of exe
cuting and enadfcing laws ; no other, conse
quently, than what foftuds a coalition of the
poweis ill the lame department.
I the few other fpecifieji fundb'ons
a Signed-to the Prciident, such as that of, con
vening of the liigiftUtu'e, &c. &c. which cannot
be drawn into the present question.
It may lie proper however to take notice of
the power of removal from office, which ap
pears to have been adjudged to the President by
the lawseftabliftring the executive departments;
and which the- writer has endeavoured to press
intohis fcrvice. To jufciiy favourabij in
feregce from this cafe, it must be (hewn, that
the powers of war and treaties are of a kin
dreds nature to the power of removal, or at
least are equally within ,a grant of executive
power. Nothing of this fort has been attemp
ted, nor probably will be attempted. Nothing
can in truth be. clearer,, than that no analogy,
or shade of analogy, can be traced4>etwccn a
power in the iupreme officer responsible for the
faithful execution of the laws, to displace a fiib
altera officer employed in the execution of the
laws; and a power to make treaties, and to de
clare war, such as these Aave been foundto be in
their nature, their operation, and their conse
quences. /
Thus it appears that by whatever standard we
.try this do&rine, it mull be condemned is no
less vicious in theory than it would be dange
rous io pra&ice. his countenanced neither by
the writers on law; nor by the nature of the
powers themfelyes ; nor by any general arrang
n.ents or exprefli on 6, orplaufible a
nalogies, to be found in the conilitution.
Whence then can the writer have borrowed
it ?
There is but one answer ta this question.
The power of making treaties and the pow
er of deflating war, are royal prerogatives in the
Britijh govit'nmenti and are accordingly treated
a.3 Executant prerogatives by Britijh comjrcntators
We shall be the more confirmed in the neces
sity of this solution of the problem, by looking
back to the aera of the confbtutiea, an«i Satisfy
ing ourjwlves that the writer could not have been
milled by the do&rines maintained by our own
commentators on our own government. That
I may not ramble beyond prescribed limits, I
ihall content myfelf with an extra<sl from a
work which entered into a systematic explana
tion and defence of the constitution, and to
which frequently been a fori bed some*
influence iii conoiliaxing the public affant to the
government in form proposed. Three cir
ciiqaftancen conspire in giving weight to this co
temporary e&p/6fition. It was made at a time
when no application to persons or measures could
btas: The opinion given was not transiently
mentioned, but formally and critically elucidat
ed : It related to a point in the constitution
which must consequently have been viewed as
of importance in the public mind. The paflage
relates to the power of making treari«s ; that
of declaring war, being arranged with fwch ob
vious propriety among the legillative powers,
as tobepaffed over without particular difcufiion.
" Tho* ftveral writers on the fub>jc& of govern
" ment place that power sos making treaties Jin
the class of Executive authorities, yet this is
'• evidently an arbitrary dijpojttioti. For ifweat
*i tend carefully, to its operation, it wiil be
" found to partake more of the leg'Jlative than
" of the executive chafer, though it does not
« feemftri&ly to fall within the definition of
" either of them. The eifence of the legisla
tive authority, is to ena& laws; or iti other
u words, to prescribe rules for the regulation
u of the society. While the execution of the
u laws and the enaoloyment of the common
" strength, either for this purpose, or for the
* common defence, feent to comprize all she
" fun&ions of the Executive magi/irate. The
" power of making treaties is plainly neither
" the one nor the other. It relates neither to
" the execution of the subsisting laws, nor to
•' the enaitiou of new ones, aadftilllcfs to au
517
st 28, 1 7^3.
fUH TIIE GAZETTE.
Ta Mr. 7. />. W. member-of the Literary Society in
this i iiy i and author of. an rfjav pubUfli:d in the
National «f 2j.jt,4uguJl 1793.
Sir,
HAVING perceivrd in the National G.azette
of the 21 ft inft. an t fTiy, fa id to have been
r,ead in t.hij cify., before a certain society., calling
it-felt. litera.l y, L was.rnnch induced tp gjve-it
an attentive peiufal, not forth ol crt
ticifinjr on us merit, but for the-fake ps dciiv
ing inftru&ion and c niertainmcm.
When a pplitira! eij>y is handed to the pub
lic, through thnt channel of a gazette, wc havq a
to expect ihat the author has maturely con
sidered all the opinions of which he thus pu}.>-
lickly avow* )umf(4f (he patron ; an<f he iiidft
expes ihaf fpntiments sent forth in this wav,
will meet left indulgence thai* when delivered
befofe an afTembiy o£ inmates and
Observing, however, a degree of 4< republican
rnoder/Jtir>iY, w (as the author seems to recom
mend) I ffiaJl examine a few of his do&rines.—.
Indeed from the t manner iri which this eir.iy
meets the public eye, tfre author will 11.0,1, 11 is
Jioptfd, be cjifpleaf.'d with a few ttri&uve.s upon
pf-hrs cornpofnion, and the accu
racy;.•>£ his. Thru fooiety, of which
He-is a mfwibw, is an io dilution ddlgned for
the »douifiti<Wof literature m gener.al-r-iu, par
tic rf*sr For improvement in compofuion.
Whether rms eflfay is intended as a (pecimen
of ?he authoi's taiVnt in writing, or as an evi
deijteof h»s in poiitical.
and-tnformatirM), I, am at a, loss to decide.. Nor
arti T less iiicapatile of accoutring for the nip.
fives, which could iitduce the editor of (he Na
tion*! Gaaettc to adroit it to the honors of his
press. Beoter far had it bci o for lutrt to have
exrrcifrd a p;i.ren'al Cowards this
child of a nj;fgukled judgment, by refsjVnj* it
a public expbfxire, than to have, cast }t foulj,
with all its nakedness and poverty, to meet the
fcoft's of an moulted public.
The introdutioT) sentences to this notable ef-
Tay arc, perhaps, as worthv of renjark as any in
the whole production. i#e are tol<} that " It
roust .afford singular (Vtisflftionf toUhe friends of
freedom to contemplate the havoc, which, HriCe
the revolution, has imdfc a
monijft those numerous cuiloms pnd prejudice*,
whi<ih fwavrd the (center over our ijrillocratic
and appfeffed anofftnis. 1 "
That the 44 contemplation of havoc" by the
friends of freedom in amy country and upon \
any occasion, fcaij " affoid matter of fibular fa
ns' v£M .ii M !S a Which may he navel, i
but is not therefore t'Fie less abfird. 'To make {
havoc among •* cuftoma io>l prejudices" too,
is a mapifer of getting fiA" 9f {His clafc of ene
m: s wlp-ch i»' V?r belore to my mind.
l f is a new invention ip the art of political war
fare, for which the discoverer
Cfedff, -fuppefing h»'m perfe&iy competent to
explain its utility j>us whv fhwld we fuipc£t
the author's abrjiiy to define the operations of
his new invented engine, since he tells us it is to
extirpate tyrants arid despots, v/ho swayed
the fcejtutf r over our arijlodratic and oppressed an-
D»*ar departed (had;*, we will weep i
f>r the wrongs "ye fuHFrred while here op
but we will also execrate you; memories, that
■ye were .-riftocrat* !
Our author proceeds —" Ic is however an
cquai taufe of tl»?t so many opinions,
usa %r$ and Hm's ftilf cx ; ll in our Qotu|fry v vvhjcfa
can "ae juOilied only by the piirnmfcribed rea-
of a Burke, and which fuffcred to re r
main may gather increasing fttcngih,
arid open the sluices for an inlet of
poittical terefity, that may inundate oyr coun
iry, and involve our citizens in ruin."
N-ow k let mc ask this profound, erudite, mem
ber of the lifrr-trv focie'v, difc>iminative
faculties (cero so accute—.What opinions, usages
and fltll c|filt in our country, that so
replete with crior, m fchicf, and tit in ? Since
when have they exiftccf—and when ought they
to have t>ern exploded ? whether Mr. Burke ha'j
lately confined himfelf t« any particular limits
of reasoning? a?rd wherhe/ a pert unlet
tered boy is more capable ps denning the na
t'ire of laws than the mcvll accompli died febo
tlr, Eurofe now can bnaft ? I shall "hardly at
tempt to follow our au hor through hu lengthy
[Whole No. 4^2.]
efiF<»y r Hul fh.iU only fnhj In a or rvyo ?
Ynult' natuiMilv fug£?& rhcnr. Mve.s. uo-m a
cnnfideraii-on of ih<* fe »j>e and t'xecuuod of the'
whole privet. It uupofis to have Ue< u frrll er-
hefme a -focicxv "f vmjtig men in (his
city J-r-bad it gcwie no farther, rlioc would-have
been no complaint o 4 the authors arrogance,
however his Wre,tliereo have judged .o' hi«
. indent 9(f a scholar. Bit, to exhity.t a tnosetf
c >lle£h >n of newfanwlr 1, cnrwmon»>liee ? ••nrj (
mav v add opinions upon jxjfiijf
principles under r.the a (Turned c of
modern truth and orthodoxy, no (mall
deficiency of judgment in a vomh; one too,
who comes for ward as a censor of mmnCrs, a
reprover of ettifenmt, a corrector of political be
refies—*md finally, an improver of laws, poli
tics, atvd jurisprudence in general. It lias be*
' come fafhionable of late for voting men to have
a complete system of political faith, long before
they are initiated into the fit ft principles of law
and government; an intue set of canonical ar.
'iciest as a kind of preface to ibeir political tef
tameiK. The essay tb«ro<so«ifions-thcfe ftri&ur.ei
is in the hackneyed mortem declara
tion j is incorrc# in its IHOguage, and poflVflVs
f«wsbeauti*« As comoofnipn. te ( rms anf
tocracv, monarchy, def?»otifm, a> conua-di/Un-
fr ( oni which in the writer's
'interpretation is Km anotfre-r name for republic
canifnj, are perfc&jv r ai command when he w;fil
es to vent an-e-xecraiion, and he of;«*n makes uie
of them for no other apparent reason, than be
cauft he lias heard th> y a e MghlUtf things.
These remark*, may Have she appearance of
illiberal fevefity ; but their sole intention is to
inducethe author of the efTiy that gave rife to
them, to re-exaitline hi* opinions, and fn'futurc
to be more careful' how he hazards a publica
tion noon political fobjc'&s, which ii n<u the
moll difficult are at leait the tnoft important
themes, which can engage the peri of r.he best
informed, ftatefmeri. A youth therefore ffiould
enter the lifts with timidity and diffidence, en
deavoring. rtither t.o perluade his readers, than
. impose his f£Dtim,ems upon thepyhlic.
S h N E X.
PbiladrldhU', 23d Anguft.
FROM IHE W-fvSI'ERN STAR.
IT ha* often Wen observed, and for a long
time not doubted, by mauy, that the o'jvft
Of*that horde (\v •jfe employment has been,
ever since the adoptron of the fedei al Govern
ment, to abuse and vLlliJy its officers, and all
a&ing \i) authority under il», and fl.;n
dei 1 lifts at length been vented even aga nft the
exalted virtues and unsullied patriotism of a
WashiNOTONy) was to involve this country
in distress an.d: coijfufion.—if there aje. yet
those w.hnfe candor may haver led $bem to be
lieve that the Fraternity oj America* "facobirrs a,r£
\ncfted' by none# motives to prefer their rn
cendi'ary and complaints, weekly,
to the public, the dec fiouotn P cvnflxxxm* ju
ry, pubribed in our paper of this w<fsk 9 wider
the Philadelphia.head, must remove thje veil,
and' convince*them that their dandor has been
extended towards, ohjjfts in every lenie 'high
ly unworthy of it.—Contrary to the nnani
mo us opinion, of the Judges, and di realty in
opposition to the clearly definp,d, ai d parti
cular! \ pointed put, true intent and meaning
of tlve laws of the land, an inhabitant of the
United States, who had voluntary tranfgrefled
byenHfting on board an armed privateer, and
against whom a bill of indidhnent had been'
found, for the oflfence, has been declared ifct
guilty, by a jury- The right of trial ( v
jury, is a privifege that will be always held
dear by all who ivilh to hold their lives, their
liberties, and their poffrfljons, upon a founda
tion mpre iaie and feenre than the precarious
tenure of afluijiptive and arbitrary power.
But of what avail is this_ sacred bulwark of
freedom, if law and evidence, which fhoujld
ever be the ground-woik of a jnry's verdidfr,
are made to give place to caprice and will?
'Tis_a bubble, 'tis a fhado.w, 'tis nothing J>pt
a name, the fbqijd of which, though it b«
grateful to the ear, yet the thing it (elf* in its
operation, may be made an engine more de
ftru&ive to the sacred rights of the commu
nity, than fetters de catcket and a Baft He
But the door is now opened, we fha 11 proba
bly be told, for the exercise of gratitude to
France— Pi racy upon the high seas, we may
hear, will feeure aiid establish Gallic freedom :
—this will be animating dodbine to the pil
ferers of property, who may now ef»-
lift under the bapriers of a Kid, and travetfe
the ocean,in search of plunder, and be dl&rfu
fted with the appellation of defenders of the
figkts of mankind—patriotic freem,77, fighting hi
the cause of Fj\tnce and humau nature. But what
ever degree qf fiatHptifm may actuate fnch
patrioti in thei;* patriotic purfnits, it is mod
probable that a large majority of the commu
nity will wifli them the patriotic punifliment of
a halter.—Let tbofe who really wish to risk
their lives in defence of that heavtn bnm
principle which fjrft roused the enlightened
sons ps America to oppose the strides of un
jtift power, take paflage for the invaded ter
ritory of our allies, and, under the heroes of
France, gather laurels in 6jgnting the battles
of freedom : bu; let not the name of defend
ers of liberty be bestowed on those who seek
prote'ftion under the lhadow of pretended
right, for the purpose of robbing induftrj o£in reward iVid n' l " I T- , i dng : flVr a'lon of
the bread fetigne* f-r their «»m ! !ie»—it,
however, there are th»ft'Vh« bear flu- «<.mr
of A'n'.ricans, who will >n H' fiance of la>v and
autho ity, violate the e j.di ed nen'ralttv et
our country, hy engaging an infan'ons traf
fick, their b.-ing put out of tlie protc-aion of
government, must fuhjeff thenjj if thev tall
into tlie hands of thole againfl whom their
freeoooting is defigned,to rigorous treatment,
if not to an ignominious exit. Their coun
try will not relent the merited panifhinent,
and scarcely the tear of pity will be Ihed at
th<! tidings of their f ate.
FAOM THE COLUMBIAN MIRROR
Citizsns Smith & Piice, .
S) pMfluij; in ytnr paptr tht/tHewhg si"" *'
tdvitc, yen iuiil oblige your molt humble fervuntt
} P. A. CHERUI.
Alexandria, Auguji to, 1793.
ADVICE te the AMERICAN CITIZENS.
Citizens and Brothers,
IT is ureters to put yon in mind of"the plots
that the Aristocrats have formed t'-> T many
years past again ft the Republicans ami the
Friends to Liberty. You are not ignorant ot'
the blood these cruel aflaffins have spilt, in
every part of France, in facrificing and put
ting to the sword those brave citizens that
gold could not corrupt.
Open your eyes and know that this infa
mous "coalition of leditious men exists in this
continent, and that their design is to establish
a new theatre ul"cruelty and calamity. I was
tuld yesterday, by people worthy of faith, and
known by their pjtriutil'nl.that ill-intentioned
people, ft rangers to this country, have pub
lished infamous calumnies against Citizen
Genet, Mini fter Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic in the United States of America,
which are fulHcient to break forever the
union that now exists between the two Re
publics, and to operate the ruin of our wife
and virtuous Minister
It is my duty to make all neceflary inqui
ries to discover the authors of fncli an odious
accusation, and it is with Tatisfadlion I hear
that this publication has not been made by
American citizens.
It is in the name of liberty, that every vir
tuous man ought to revere—l beg the Ame
rican citizens, our brothers, to {hut their
heart* against all the seditious and calumnious
dilcourfes which they may hear against the
honor and dignity of tUe refpeftablt Citizen
Genet, and to look upon the authors of such
fcditious reports, as men bribed by our com
mon enemies, *yho seek nothing else but to
difbonor and-aboliih tlie French Republic, and
Co spread d vilion and discord between the two
powers. P. A. CHERUI,
Agent of the French Republic.
United States.
THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE IS
THE VOICE OF GOD.
EXETER, (N.H.) August 13.
At a legal meeting of the qualified vo
tm of the town of Exeter, holden on
the I2ih of Arignft, 1793,
Voted unanimously, Tbat when un
principled or misguided men are, by their
machinations, endeavouring to interrupt
the public tranquillity and happiness, it
becomes the duty of the friends of peace
and good orJer to pursue all proper mea
sures for rendering their plans abortive.
Voted unanimously, That although we
> fe«l ourselves of comparatively small im
portance,both in a political and commer
cial view, we have a common interelt with
out fellow citizens through the Union in
the piefervation of peace and prosperity,
which we now enjoy ; and therefore es
teem it no less our right than our duty to
express our sense of common dangers, and
our ideas of the means pursued for the
public security.
Voted unanimoufly,that in our opinion
the public measures, which have betn a
dopted by the President of the United
States, for maintaining, during the pre
sent war in Eucope, that ftri& and impar
tial neutrality, with which both our na
tional interell and honour are so intimate
ly conrte&ed, were conftitutiorial, wife,
and patriotic—and that we view, with
great indignation, the illiberal attempts
which have been made to calumniate his
official chara&er on account of tins time
ly discharge of an important duty.
Voted unanimously, That as we ate at
peace with all the powers of Europe, we
cannot but confidet every citizen of the
United States, who is interested in fit
ting out, or concerned in manning, any
armed vessel to cruise againit their pro
perty on the high seas, or who advocates
such measures, as guilty of a species of
mafqued piracy, highly dishonorable to
the American chara&e'r ; 'and that we ef
tertn it tl(e duty of aH true friends to our
countiy to bring every such person to de-
Ferved punishment, as a violator of the
lawa_of'- nations and a disturber of the
public peace.
The foregoing is a copy.
Attest,
JOSIAH GILMAN, To>vn Clerk.
Cl! AWLFSTOWN (Mad.)
At a meeting ol the 1 itellolders
and oilici inhubitatlH ul
ol' Lhai ietlown, the following rtfo
'lutions wcie uwanimoully entered
into:
Voted, That the inhabitants of
this town do mod heartily concur
with the resolutions of the mer
chants and traders of the town of
Bolton, in their meeting of the 22d
July, 1793- . , -
Voted, That the inhabitants ot
this town conceive it to be the duty
and for theintereft of every citizeu
of the United States, at this impor
tant crisis of politicaTaffairs, to gi*C
their firm fnppott to the
Executive of tlie United States, in
his exertions to maintain peace, and
avoid tlie calamities of war.
Voted, Thaf in our opinion tt i?
contrary to the principles of lieutra
lity, and repugnant to the true in
terests of our country, for any citi
zens to enter on boards or c o|i*
cerned, directly or indirectly, in
fitting out any armed veflels to cruise
againlt the vefl'els of any nation
now at peace with these States, and
that they ought to be efteeined as
enemies to their country, and treat
ed accordingly.
Voted, That the foregoing reso
lutions (hall be transmitted to the
Hon. Thomas Ruflell, £fq. and pub
lished in the Bolton newspapers.
A true copy from the records,
Samuel PaYSon,
duguft I 3> 1 793•
POWN'ALBOROUGH,
Di/lrifl of Maine.
At a meeting held at Wifcaffet-
Hall, by a number of the citizens of
the town of Powpalborough, on the
9th of August, 1 793 —it was un»ni
niotifly voted :—
id. That we molt cordially sub
scribe to the sentiments held up in
the several resolutions of our fel
low citizens of Boston, communicat
ed to us in the aforementioned let
ter, expreflive of their opinion, 6f
the propriety, wisdom and pru
dence of the Prefideut's late
mation, and that we will ftri&ly ad
here to the fame.
2tUy. That ihould any man among
ns, become to depraved, so far re
gardless of the peace and
of thiscountry, as to be concerned ill
any way and manner, in any vefl'el,
fitted out to cruise against any power
at peace with ihefe States, we will
exert ourselves, to the utinoft of our
abilities, to deiecft and bring him,
to the punifhuient and disgrace, that
such detejlable and piratical plunder
ers deserve ; —And that we will nei
ther deal with, or employ, any man,
mariner or seaman, who flialj here
after be aiding, or affißing, in fitting
out, or manning any such vessel.
3dly. That the Secretary be re
queued to inclofeacopy of the pro
ceedings of this meeting to the Hon.
Thomas Ruflell, Esq. in return for
the communication received from
him.
Per order,
Joseph Tinkham, Sec'ry.-
Maiden (Muff.) Aug. 17.
At a meeting of the inhabitants
of i he town of Maiden, on the 16th
of August, 1793 —!
Voted, That our thank* be pre
lented to the Merchants and Tra
ders in the town of Bofton,"for their
titnely and spirited exertions to
preserve that state of neutrality fa
highly interesting and important to
these States.
Voted, That we concur with them
in taking every legal measure to
bring to condign punilhment any
citizen who (hall be guilty of the
leafl infringement on the laws of a
(lri<ft neutrality, agreeable to the
President's late Proclamation.
Voted, That the preceding votes
be inserted in ,the Columbian Ceij
tinel. A true copy, . »
Nehemiah Torrey, Town»Clerk.
SPRINGFIELD, Augtlft 20:
The inhabitants of the town of
Springfield, being callcd together
by their feleiSmen on Wednesday
Augiift 14th, 1793, in consequence
of a letter signed by the honorable
Thomas Russell, Efq chairman
of a committee of and
others, citizens of the town of Bos
ton, to. consider the threatening
518
afpert of our pub'.-c affairs, in con
fequenre of tl<e unhjppy #>r be
tween ilie nations ot tuiop-', H "ti
the* difpolit ion fliewn, as ir is
by foine of the inhabitants ot tliele
Stares, unduly to interfere therein.
Having freely conferred oil the
fubjedt, we are unanitnoufly of opi
nion, that it is our duty as citizens,
to observe a molt scrupulous neu
trality in regard to the war, as well
as a pundtual observance of treaties
existing between the United States
and any other nation.
And although we do not feel dis
posed to arrogate the right of ap
proving or condemning the oflitial
conduct of the Supreme Executive
of the United States, yet we cannot
but expiefs our gratitude, tor the
prudent and well timed Proclama
tion of the President, declaring the
United States to be in a state oi
neutrality
By order of the Selectmen,
Samuel Lyman, Chairman.
Refalutiohs of the Town of Ncwbedford,-
Majfachnfetts.
Resolved, i. That we will to ihe
utnioft, of our power flridlly attend
to the pacific fyltem manifefted by
the Prefutent in his late Proclama
tion.
Resolved, 2. That we heartily
concur with our fellow-citizens of
the town of Boston in their late do
ings relative thereto : and we will
endeavor to deieifl all fiich as may,
in the fmallelt degree, violate that
neutrality we so highly approve.
Voted unanimously, That the a
bove Resolutions be printed in the
Medley, and Columbian Cen*ti-
NE L
THADEUS MAYHEW, Clerk
At a meeting of the Mayor, Alderinen,
Common Council and Freemen -of the
City of Nevi-Haven, warned accord
ing to the Conflitution, and ctnoened
at the State House in said City, on
Monday the lyth day cf Augiujl,
A. D. 1793-
Samuel Bishop, Esq. Mayor of said
City, Moderator.
11esoj.ved, That the late Pro
clamation of the President of the
United States, declaring and enioin
ing a Uriel neutrality, with refpeA
to the belligerent powers, is a proof
of the wifdoni of the ftipreme exe
cutive, and of bis vigilent attention
to the prosperity of our country,
and merits our warmest approbation
and firm support.
Resolved, that we approve of the
measures adopted by the Governor
and Legislature of this State, in
support of that Proclamation, and,
the fyltem of neutrality it enjoins.
Resolved, That we will unitedly
and individually exert onrfelves to
promote in our fellow-citizens, a
condutt friendly and impartial to
wards the nations of Europe, which
are now at open war with each
other : and for this purpole, will
discountenance, and to the utmoli
of our power, suppress any hostili
ties against the people or property
of such nations.
Resolved, That we will endeavor
to preserve pure and inviolate, in
principle and pratftice, the Consti
tution of the United States, and
watchfully guard again ft any insi
dious, or open attacks upon it.
Resolved, That the Mayor of this
City, be requested to tranfinit an
official copy of the proceedings, to
the President of the United States,
and a like copy to the Governor of
this Stare.
SAMUEL BISHOP, Mayor.
Attest, S. Baldwin,, City Clerk,
Newark, Auguft2i.
At a meeting of the inhabitants of
' the County of Eflex, at Newark,
on the feveuteenth day of Anguft,
L 793, agreeably to public notice,
Major Genval DAYTON -was unant
vtortjly chofiti chairman, & ELISHA
nOUDLVOT, Esq. Secretary.
When, after rhe President's Pro-,
clamation was read, and the busi
ness fully discussed, tlie following
Refoliitions were entered into with
only ONE diflfenting voice.
Resolved, THAT we regard the
Proclamation of the President which
the Neutrality of the
United States, in the war now ex
isting among several of the iiations
in Eu r "pe, as a declaration of t!>»
real difpofilion of ( hele States, us u
friendly adinoni!itMi 10 all »ur
tizfns, of tiie penalties to wliicii
they will be expOl'ed, tinder any
violation of the Law of Nations ;
and as a new proof of that watch
ful care and paternal affection, for
the true interests, profperiiy and
honor of this country, which has Co
uniformly maikcd and eminently
diltinguilhed the adniiniftration of
our fir it Magiltrate.
Refolvcd, Tliat as it is the indif-.
lenfible dnty of every good Cii izeu*
o it (hall be oar conttant endeavor
to carry into effect the paeific (S'ftent*'
enjoined us in the aforefaid procla
niHiivn, and 10 fiupport aur public
officers in all lawful and proper ex
ertions to enforce and maintain tl»e»
fame.
ELIAS DAYTON, Chairwan.
Elisha Boudinot, Secretary. .
Richmond (Virg.) Atigiift 19. ;
At a numerous mealing of the Ci
tizens of Richmond and its
held at the Capitol, on Saiorday the
17th of August, 1793, agreeable t*
notification, and in order to take uiv
der conlideration the late Procla-
niation of the Prelident of the Uni*
ted States
The Proclamation of the Presi
dent being read, on motion by Mr,
John Mar(hal), the following refo
iutions were offered, difculled and
unanintoufly Agreed to—
ill. That it is the interell an<l
duty of these United States to con
form to their several fubftlling trea
ties, and to maintain a ftritft neutra-
lity towards the belligerent powers;
of Europe, on the due and failhfnH
observance of which ihe happinefb
and prosperity of our common coun
try very greatly depend.
2dly. That our illuft: ions fellow
citizen, George Washington, to
whofc eminent fervjces, great ta
lents, and exalted virtues, all Ame
rica pays so jull a tribute, has given
an additional proof of his watchful
attention to his own duty and the
welfare of his country by his Pro
clamation notifying to all that thelj;
United States are in perfetft neutra
lity with respect to the belligerent
powers of Europe, and enjoining;
our citizens to an observance therc4
of. ,
jdly. That it Is our duty as wetll
as our interest to conduct ouiTelveU;
conformably to the .principles ex-
prefled in the said Proclamation,,
and (o use our bed endeavors to.
prevent any infringement of them
by others ; and we hereby declare
that it is our firm inrenfiou to do so.
And a committee was appointed
to draw up an Address conforma
ble to said resolutions, confiding off
the following gentlemen- —J. Mar
fliall, C. Braxton, A. Ronald, J.
M'Clurg, A. Campbell, and J. Steele.
The Committee returned, and
Mr. Marfliall reported an addrefi),
which being read, was unanimously
agreed to.
The meeting continuing to fiij
the following Resolutions were of
fered, difcufled, and unanimously
agreed to —
That the Conftitulion of our
country lias provided a proper ancl
adequate mode of communication
between these United States and fo
reign nation* or their minifies
whereby the sense of these United'
States or of foreign nations on any
subject concerning either may be
conveyed or received.
2dly. That if at any time this
constitutional authority should be.
abused, and the Supreme Executive
of the United States should miscon
strue treaties, violate the lqws or"
oppose the sense of the union, there
exists among the people of Ameri
ca, without the intervention of fo
reign ministers, difcernmeHt to de
tect the abuse, and ability to cor
rect the inifchief.
That any communication
of foreign minifterson national fub
jedfs, with the citizens of these
United States or any ofthem, other
wise.than through the constituted
authority, any interference of a fo
reign milliliter with onr internal go
vernment or administration, *
intriguiiig of a foreign minilt?' -
with the political parties of this
country, would violate the lavisandufUges of nations, woulvl.be a
invligi'ity to the government and
people of America and would be.
great and jult cnule of alarm, as it
would be at once a dangerous' in
troduc r tion of foreign influence, and
might, too probably, lead to the in
trodu<sHon of foreign gold and fo
reign armies, with their fatal con
fluences, difmemberinent and par
tition.
GEORGE WYTHE. Prefdent.
A. DUNSCOMB, Secretary.
Ri'folutioris of the county of Niiu-Caftlt,
. i r\ i
State of Delaware.
ift. Resolved that the meeting
highly approve of the late Procla
mation of the President of the Uni
ted States, enjoining upon the citi
zens of the United Stales, the ob
servance of neutral conduct towards
the belligerent powers of Europe.
2d. Resolved, That it is the opin
ion of this meeting, that the Pi eft
dent by his proclamation has given
an additional proof of found dis
cretion and unremitting vigilance
in the exercise of the functions of
his flat ion.
3d. Resolved, That it is the o
pinion of t his meeting that the prot
perous and happy condition of our
country is connet'ted with, ar.d
greatly dependant on its state of
peace, that war would be deltrut!t
ive of its commerce, and injurious
to its agriculture, and that the
proclamation is happily calculated
to avoid the multiplied and
piifery of which, war would be pro
du&ive.
'4th. Resolved, That this meeting,
firmly persuaded that the ineafures
of the general government are wife,
honorable and advantageous, will
be regulated in their condo«si by
them, and will contribute their aid
to support thein,
jth. Resolved, That from the op
port,unities the persons now con
vened have had of discovering the
fentiineiitsof the inhabitants of this
itate, it appears, that they cone
fpotul with those exprelfed in the
preceding resolutions.
6th. Resolved, That a copy of
these resolutions, under the iigna
ture of the Chairman, be transmitted
to the President of the United States,
W?d that the proceedings of the pre
lent ineeiing be publiflied.
JOHN M'KINLY, Chairman.
Matthew Pearce, Sec'ry.
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
S I K, .
SOLICITOUS for the continuance of that
hapfiinefs, which io highly diftinguifoes
our country, and So eflentially depends on the
preservation of its PeacC, Libei ty, and So
vereignty, We, the iniiabitants of the city of
Hartford, in the State of Connecticut, beg
leave to express our grateful acknowledg
ments for y >ur patriotic measures to protest
those invaluable bleflings. Among these we
view' wiib finguhir plea fu re your late Piocla
matioh, on the fuhjeft of neutrality towards
the belligerent Powers in Europe. To give
public notice of the exiltence of hostilities be
tween foreign nations, with whom we have
continual intercomfc,.and to point out the
line oi'conduct we ought to pttHw* 10 relpfft
to thaje contending powers, we mud confidcr
as a conftitutiona-1 ast, becoming the duty ot
the firft Magistrate, highly neceflary in our
fit nation, and evidently drftated by that pa
ternal care, l'o often exerted iu promoting
ths welfare of the States
The prerogative of Kings to make war at
their sole will and pleasure has for ages been
wantonly excrcifed for the deftruftion of hu
man happinel's. Motives of perfotial refent
nient, cruelty and caprice, or the desire- of
conqucft ajid aggrandizement, have olten in
volved the world in deflation and carnage.
Happy is the condition of our. country! whole
free Constitution R-cprcs to the people the
sole right of declaring war by the voice ot
their Rep'efentatives and imposes the most
solemn obligations oil t!ie Supreme Executor
of its laws, to (inard us peace, till such de
clarat on be made of the public will, lor
this important right areour Allies,the French,
contending at an infinite expence of blood and
treafnre.—While we tvoft that the good sense
of our fellow-citizens will prelerve and per
ii peluate fa eflential a power, we ardently
prav that it may be obtained by all nations—
Then and not till then may we expert, that
peace on earth and good-will to men fiiall be
come the law of nations as it is a precept of
our holy Religion.
Warmly attached to our government, both
by interelt and affection, we take the liberty
to allure you, that we (hall ever Hand ready
by our utmost exertions, in every legal and
constitutional way, to fuppo't the just mea-
Cures of your administration ; and to lend our
urtiftance in maintaining the peace and har.
mony of the Stat's, and in oppoling the inlidu
ous dfeligns of those persons, it there be any so
deluded, who may wifU to.fuujeift the country
to influence, and involve it in the
pon-ors »f War..'
We lie I'uliy convinced, that an impartial
yiC'iM ality is the wiHi <>t the inhabitants ofthi'
Sr.tte, and that *our Proclauvatron was. re
ceived by them with co;dial I'ausfattion ajid
.approbation.
We are happy in this opportunity of de
claring, that we still retain undiminifhed,
that in ft gratitude tor your ref
peftful attachment to your person, which
warmed and united all hearts, and was wit?
rtefled by affectionate addrefles from every
part of the union, on your fir ft inauguration,
as President of the States.
Signed by Order,
SAMUEL WYLLYS, Chairman,
Hartford, Attgujl 1793. '
to the Inhabitants of the City of Hert
ford in the. State of C&nnetiiciit.
Fellow Citizem-;,
THE 4ddrel"s ps the Inhabitants of the city
of Hartford contains sentiments too lavora
bte to the public? weal—oo partial to myfelf
nor to claim and receive my cordial acknow-
led*ments.
It, at the Tame tims offers a new proot of
that cha v a&eriftic lbve of order and peace,
of that v»rtu&tf*and enlightened zeal for the
public good, which diftinguiihes the inhabit
ants ot Connecticut
'Tis po n dirpoHtibiis like these, that we
may hope to avoid an interruption ot the nu
merous blelfings which demand our gratitude
to Heaven ; or that we may be encouraged
to meet with firmnefs, Confiding in the pro
tection ot 'i just Providence, any attempts to
disturb them,which intemperance orinjuftice,
from whatevef c]u<*i ter, may, at any time,
make ii our duty to encounter. ,
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
General Joseph Bloomfield, Chairman Qf the
meeting oj the citizens oj the county oj Bur
lington,
Philadelphia, August 17, 1793.
Sir,
I have received with great pi a Cure the »efo~
lutions ps the citizens of the county of Bur.
linj*ton, which were cncl.ofed in your letter of
the 131b of this month.
In addition to the high fatisfaftioo which I
feel in "knowing thai my measures are approved
by my fellow citizens, it afforos me >.o fniall
pleasure to fee that, in giving this public teftt
mony of their approbation, they take occasion
tn txniefs thofc manly and independent (Yn
liments which are truly chara£leriftic ot a free
and an enlightened people. And I mud b< g
you to affufe the citizens of the county of Bur
lington that, believing as I do, that the true in
terdlof this country and the happiryefs of 11s
citizens depend ud>ii our remaining in a state
of peace durin« the pufent important erifis, I
cannot but highly applaud their patriotic relo
liuion to use all means in their power for the ac
ctimpliftimetit of this desirable object. Ami
that I am no less pleafrd wiih ihe femmieut
which thev have exnrcflcd rel'peaing any fo
reign inlerfeience in the internal adtpiniftraiion
of our government,
I"The neafpaptrs from a dijlance covmn the Re
folutiotts of wv other plates—Our limits do tici
permit ui topub'ijli the whole this &y- j
CHARLESTON, August 2.
On TufHay evening last an affray happened
between Come, French and British sailors, in
which one of the latter was so badly wounded
as to occalion his death on Thursday morning.
It is to be lamented that the vigilant e of the ol
fkers of Ihe police and city guard extends oot
from thenatureof lur.h rencounternto the preven
tion of them. Private disputes always did and
ever will produce public disorders.
liy a gentleman from the frontier of Gcoigia.
we are infoimed that the Indians have been ve
ry quiet for these tv>o months pall arid that no
p. rfon has been killed or plundered withio that
time,
Lad Wedncfday about an hourafter dark as a
young man by the name of Corbet was coming
Co town within four miles and a half mile ot thyc
city be was suddenly pulled from bis hoile by
three fellows, whether white or black he coijld
not deteimine, and after giving him fevcral
blows with a gun upon the fide, took from him
his horse, saddle, biidle, and saddle bag* con
taining his cloatha, his (hoes from off his fee.,
and sixty-three pounds fterlittg, which he had
earned by his induflty and intended lo have
laid out in town.
NEW-YOKK, August 24-
Port-au-Prince, June 3o v 1793-
" Commission Nationals Civile. ,
" WE, Stephen Polverel and Leger Felicjte
Sont'nonax, civil commWlaries of the ftepijb-.
lie, delegated to the French Windward iflafljds
in America, for restoring order and tranqoi
lity.
" Whereas the traitor Galbaud, after hav
ing reduced the tpwn of the Cape to ailics,
has departed and carried with him fevera!
veflfels of war belonging to the republic, to
gether with many commercial veffelj that,
were in the harbor, and whcli he means to
deliver up to the Englifli'or Spaniards ; ajid
whereas before leaving the coast he msy agiiu
attempt to burn and lav waste several tptfns
of the coiony-: To prevent. all such furtlier
attempts, we prohibit all commandants of
regular forces, and the national guards, all
municipal officers, and all those to whom an
armed force is confidod, from' fuffering or
permitting any of the said veilels, lb aruied,
to enter any of the ports, bays, or harbors of
the colony, or even to approach, within ■ ctn
non (hot, neither under the pretence of De
ceffity, the want of pvovifions or refrefli
ments, or in fine, under any pretext what
ever. •
u We order the said* commandants, muni
cipal officers, depositaries ot the armed for
ces, and all our citizens in general to employ
519
For the Daily Advertiser.
translation.
of BmidtaHx to the-Alutionat Cdm-ill
tion. 1
G. WASHINGTON,'
every in their power to or de"
il roy tbe ;a i d v e ifi*.;.
'• Vv'r; declare: a'ri tho'e ,w|io fliall receive
the'faid tlun any aftiftance, or
hold any cr-rei prudence with them,. traitors
to tlieir coir.itw.
44 We require the Governor General to
cairfe the pieienc order to be put into execu
tion.
44 Given at oyr camp in the General Quar
ter of Breda, 25th June, 1793, and 2d year
of the Republic.
u Polverel and Sonthonax,
Civil Conimiflioners of the Republic.
u PIQUENARD,
. Joint Sec. to the Civil tommifiioners. 3 "
A CRY of horror is heard at tlie extremi
ties of thfc-j-.«£public—three hundred represen
tatives, of the people devoted to proscription
—twenty-two, to the ianguinary axe of tlie
Centum virs.
Legillatdrs, when we chose deputies, we
put them under tlie protection of* the law ;—
of virtue, and of all that is most sacred on
earth—we believed that we had sent them a
mong men ; we discover that they are sur
rounded with Tigers thiriting for blood;—
These courageous citizens, at this moment
are undef the daggers of aflaflins—'what do
we fay, perhaps they are no more ; if this at
trociou? crime is perpetrated, tremble legifla
tors,-tremble at the violence of our indigna
tion and defpair-yif a thirst for blood has rob
bed us of Our Brothers, of our Representa
tives; the horror of the bloody crime fliall
diredl our vengeanqe, and the Cannibals who
fhalJ have destroyed all the laws of Justice and
Humanity, (hall perish by our revenge.—Con
tention of {he natiion, Parisians, once so proud
and elevated ! feve the Deputies of the Peo
ple, save uS" from tfefpair—fave us, save your
i&ves ffom the carnage of civil war. Yes,
we will instantly organize one half of our Na>
tional Guards,.we will fly to Paris, unless ar
retted by a fatisfa&ory decree—and we swear
to save our Brothers, or to perish en their
tombs.
Signed hy the Presidents and Secretaries of
the Sections of Bourdeav.x.
At a meeting of the' Couifcil General of the
commune at Board eaux, on the May,
1793, the foregoing address was approved,
and.by their direction communicated to the
Council General of thp diftrift of Bourdeaux.
" SAIGE," Mayor.
"BASSTERRE," Clerk.
Signed,
At a meeting on the 9th May, 1793*
Council General of tbe Diftrift of Bourdeaux,
the above address was approved.
Signed, " LEMOINESILS," President.
" PAGES," Secretary.
At a meeting on ttoe yth of May, 1793*
the Council General of the department Gi
ronde," the address of the Citizens of Bour
deaux to the National Convention was
adopted.
PIERRE SERS," President.
PaffflvricUf Cho/et, Rambaud y Dubois, Martin,
WomefiHe, La Broujle, Trancher e, Bonac,
Tartiycon"—Admtnijirators.
4< ROULLET," ProcureurGeneral Syndic.
14 FRINGOES," Secretary General.
Philadelphia, Aug. 28.
/ The college of physicians of this city, in
confequeuce of a malignant fever which at
p efent prevails, have, among others recom
mehded to the cit.zens the following means,
to prevent its progress, viz. That perlons iu
ftfted should be kept in large, airy rooms, in
Ix'ds without curtains —and pay the ftri&eft
attention to clearihnefs —to keep the streets
and wharves Clean as poilible-*-to avoid all
fatigue of body or mind—to avoid lifting or
standing in the fun, also in a current of air—
or the evening air—To accommodate the
d(efe to the weather—and to exceed rather
in warm, than'in cool cloathing—To avoid
intemperance, but to use fermented liquors,
such as wine, beer or cyder, with moderation.
About two years since a Sever similar to
that which is in this city, pievailed in New.
York ; numbers died—but its continuance
was short. —Alnwft everv populou? place is
vilited with malignant disorders once in the
course of a few fears—but a due attention to
the means whicl the improved state of medi
cine has discovered to be salutary—with the
bleifing of Providence on those means have hi
therto, an 4 we trust will prevent their pro
gress to a juitly alarming point.
Sunday morning last, a fire broke out in
New-York, i» Cherry.street, near New-Slip,
three framed houses were consumed, the pro
perty of Mr. George Courtney.—The fiie
was occalloued by the accidental conveyance
of water to some unflacked lime,in one of the
buildings.
Accounts from Martinique inform that the
ijSgroe? who were declared free, in order to
induce tWin to take up arms against the aris
tocrats—now retain their arms to support
their freedom —and wfll not labor—-flmotry and
hard work being to their comprehenlion, fyno
nimous terms.
By a publication in a Charleston paper, it
appears, ihat Gen. porel is in that city, lodg
ed there at the charge of one of his friends.
A publication in tlie Charleston papers, sign
ed Polverel and Sonthonax —charges Gover
nor Galbaud, as the author of all the
miseries which have befallen Hifpanio'a since
his arrival. —This account fays, that
revolted slaves are in the colony, devoted to
the Spaniards, and the cause of kings—But
ftiU they do not despair of the public cause.
COMMUNICATION.
Mr. Frentvn in (> 'Zftte ol Sa
t'" ■fl.'V!all. f,»vs—- ' It is wondctfui that there
fhonM («• a fl HVicnrt r.'f viiti'iu-ni bet wen the
p< ->|)lc o' .t h-c c f 'unt'V. ii»ur. ■'Uh,"
—On winch i roi iffpondt'i't r| <it it
apprirs r-:hcr late, in theday, to attempt palm
ing such trumpery on ihe people as tlv.s. Tnc
truth molt probably, it refoetts a declining
party, is. that their wonder is on the other fide
of the queftion—For,ftrange as it may appear,
there are pevfons who have for a numbtr of
years deluded themfclvcs with'the idea, that the
people of the United States never would coMi
. ally submit to any permanent form ot govern
ment whatever—iat>Atbe»efore thev wonder ex
ceedingly, to find thrmfelves so eg'egioufly mis
taken—~They wqnder that the people are not
willing to facrifice their oofvive eniovm n»s,
the KVfTirtßs of " pese*-, li'jerty and laterx."
for castle* in tire »h, c-e&ed by mOdcjfis pfiilo
fophv—They wond r thar thr people fooufd
fatisfied with the condufl of tho!o t who from
former and recent exuei'ience (hey h:ive found
faithful in the difchaige of every public tiuil—
They wor-'ler that the people do not believe
their ajfertions, when they fay, that thev are the
patriots, and the only true patriots of the United
States, although the people have rievev had any
proof of the declaration from the beginning of
the world to this day.
FROM THE NEW-YORK DIARY
Gentlemen,
AN Offker of the Jupiter has it in command
from me to hand you this denial of certain pas
sages which have \ately appeared in yonr gazette.
I owe it to truth—to myfelf—to the error into
which certain French republicans have been
diawn—ind final to tn tfie honor of the fcr
viceofthc French Republic, which Oiall never
perifb in my hands, through want of zeal to
maintain it.
The articles arr— ift. u The C/impany of
Jupiter have on jufl grounds of fvfbitfon arrejled
their commander Admiral Cambis.—vA. <4 The men
accufej Cambh of being the csvfe of the troubles at the
Cape." [vSee I ast Gazette ]
Tbrfe articles are not figned.—-Methinks,Sir? #
Vour delicacy tyufl have been wounded by puh
tlifhing, during mv scandalous confuieinen l , re
flexions and layings concerning; me without at
the lame time exposing to public view the in
famous and bafc authors of tbefe calumnies, and
of the momentary deception of my companions
in arms
While American generosity will revolt a? the fe
daflardly manoeuvres, it will, 1 trust, applaud
me for addrefling you, for the last time, thele
few lines.
The connexions which I have been under a
neceflitv of maintaining with Galbaud, aie of a
nature so frandalous for a man who preserve* aoy
eftcem for himfelT, that I am less fol'citous to
lay them before the public, than to verify them
befoie the tr ; bunals appointed to take judicial
cognizance of them.
I exprft from your candor, an early publi-<
cation of this letter.
Rear-Admiral CAMBIS.
Aboard the Jupiter, 23d" August, I 793 >
2d year of the French Republic. >
From the Baltimore Daily Reposi tory
Messrs. Printers.
A Customer to your ufeful paper , willies
for information from some of your learned
correspondents, on the following fnl jefl
By the'law of nations, and a special a<ffc of Con.
greft, the persons < f foreign ministers, con
suls, &c. are protected from arrests and ac
tions in certain cases, in which others are lia
ble to both. Does tlis privilege (ecu re ain
bafladors, envoys or consuls from* an
for defamation ? and if so, what remedy can
a calumniated person have for a mod atro
cious fallhood, propagated to his great preju
dice, by one who is recognized as a public
character ? A. Z.
The principles of the French Revolution
are the noblest that can give consolation or
hope to the heart of man. Emanating from
liberty, the birth right of all the descendants
of Adam, they must monopolize the affections
of every part of mankind. But American*
know, by experience, that like all sublunary
things, they a»e "liable to abuse ; and their
prayers and wishes are—that in the Gallic
Republic, the Goddess of Liberty may be
wedded to the Genius of Good Government,
and that Order, Equal Privilege l ;, Harmony,
and National and Individual Felicity, may be
the offspring of the alliance—and that not
only there, but that their residence may be
bounded only by the boundaries of the globe.
Let the high flying advocates of levelifm, pre
tend to a better wilh if they can !
We are happy to hear that the difordrr which
has prevailed in this city for several days—be
gins to abate.
An English veiTel was lately diverted of
cannon and warlike stores, at Charleston, S. C.
on iufpicion of being equipped as a cruiser.
Died, after a ftiwt illness, Mr. Samuel
Swan, brother of Caleb Swan, Efq—Pavma
fterto the western army. Monday hisrcmairs,
attended by a number of citizens, were in
terred in the Prefoyterian burial ground,
Arcb-ftreet.
Peace to the hapless stranger's dust,
Whose foul reposes with the iuft.
May bleffingj on that man defbend,
Who prov'dhimfelf the ftranger'i friend.
i ■ Mr. Frederick W. Starman, and Mr,
Thomas Miller, worthy and refpeftable mer
chants of this city—greatly regretted.
ARR J VED at the PORT of PHILAOELPHI A.
Brig Beifey, Meafc, Ba'baduti & St, Euft,tn,
Schooner Eagle, Jonet, Chaileflon,
~R obin, Horwn, Capr-francou,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 18/ a
3 per C-nti,
Deferred, 10i/g
Full lharcs Biok U. S. j per ccso tit
[CoiCM. CIKT.]f«ofc »«, tfjJ.
is gtrce.thai
■ l/\ be.rrcrivi<l al the o!i)c« «t> iKr Sccrwaiy pi
•Ik; T'ffMto vniil the touVtcriuK day olS<p
liitbci next ii|c!«ifivcl)r t fui ihe ,{»)ij>}y. o>
miy ,t>i i<anijrf<t fai ,ihc »(e t»1
*#%• HKfrtMf, ft. *»•
i,
•Mt CutifcTiv •*}<■■ <fa»c "H/Prpri'lj'tvJHU, and
s. A< any pr pjircif (*'/B. pin'*W"'sH to (
Ik; awi at tht moulK
®sB»I i , j..
- Zt. Atjt ■£. I d-*ioul W
faiiK a> ibc (aid Big Beaver, and at
. . . * , .. , '
f/k._ Ar.jtnV pUee Hr pTa r f« fatm |l?« bid upper*
{• % - {Qjyb'igniisg, »ud j
. At #«y «»» f>l»c«»« fn>m tbf GliiJ Ma-
i!>f ik c£ ijjcrivcr
Cav?ht)g«» «u»d NVr , g*<** , «.
. 6. A* «J'>V pUre or pUcf't Irflm ihc (<>id
to ific mouth o( the i'«id nver Caya
hpga, zfui juKc. fairf . .'
. 7-. Aj p»»; nbce pr brcwixi the nt<?uih
of *lir Crvv'fc,,l<v ihc the
♦fv r'W'i®«» and tip ihe iVnl nvjrr iojihC>
jtM'l as the TufsaiibwAi, and t hei»cr.
oyer la iiytr,aiTd ihcocc down thc
fa: <Vt i 65. *n» n\l h* «'
«
8. At * n Y yl*ce« betwixt ihf mpufh
ofVrtf ijvc# ahfltUe ntiVifh of thi-
S£itfa rlverf and al ilif «tit>uth-of laid -river
■ i ■ ■ . t •
9,Xi'ai»y pi*cir cw-plafv* het'Wixt I(Vc rfiouih
of SJjMoty river oi'iu'h ul i}»t (*r<.at Miami,
$\ fhe 4 monthojtWGrw ml, »n<) from
U»fhe rAoM* or iU<'.iaD* al ihe Oiito,«n<j
atth£rapids.
JO, A» 31iv of plirrt hetwixl the ih'>u»h
o! :h (lic it U<ami, up the flirt Miami to and
at Flcjuc J' awn. I
it. At sny'pl.:ce or places from FartWafh
ington to F'« it Hamilton. a j »rt a» Foif Hamttlon
At any place m places hr»m Fort Hamilton to
Fort St. Cbtr, and at Fort St. Clair.
12. A: any place or places from Fort Su Clair
to Fort Jeflcrfori. and at Foil Jcjl-Vi lon.
13. At any place or pi «ces I M>in Fo-i J<ifrrf<>n
t'» the field of acfipn ps the 4th of November,
1791, and at the (aid fi< Id of .ltlion. »
14. At my fflijtAror places fiom the said field
of asion to the Miami V-ilagcs, and-at the
All ami Villages.
15. At any place o» places from the said Mi
ami Villages to tHe falls of the Miami • iver,
■whi<"b empties into Lditc Erie, and at the said %
falls, t :'nd fid ill thence to its mouth, and at its
mouth.
16 AVany plare or places from the mouth of
the said Miami river of L«»ke Erie to Sandufky
LA<% Sandufky Lake.
At any plactf or pi aires from the laid San
dufky Lake, ro the mourh of the rive! Cayahq^a.
18. At ony plate or placrs Irom the mouth of
the said so Preique Isle, and at
Prefque lft\
19 At iny place or places from Prefque Hie
to thr ftrcam ruuhuv-T inr'o Lake Erie from to
wards the Jadaghque {.nkr, and thence to
and at lAfd'Jadagh(|tr? Lafo'V'nd rjjcncc down
the Alleghany rjyer to Fort frank'in.
20. A: any place or places from Prcfqiie ifte
lo Lt Beuf f and itt Le Bcuf
21. A 1 any place Or places from Le Beuf to
Fori F»ai»k!\n, sibd a' Fori Fiankiin, and from
thence to Piufbiltgh.
22. At anV place or ptaccs from the rapids of
the Ohio to the month of thi W;»bSflh river, and
from the mouth of the (aid Wabafh nver tiVtlie
moprh of the river Ohio.
23 At .>nv plat* cm places on'the Eafl ftrtfe of
the nvei M'flVflifpi, lioin the mouth of the Ohio
river, toihe »no\rl« o( the Illinois friveO
24- At any ifjnpc or placcs hom the nrntWh of
trie U',d Wahaih river upi<> Fort Knox, and at
Fort' Kiv'»x
*5,. At any p'»9r ar pljce»from FjifKnoxUp
the (ji'd i,» On iuaiioo, and at OijitUnon.'
26. At anv place or places from Ouiuanmi,
tff> th£ jo ihe heart navigation nf a
branch thefcol cJIK'O Little.River, and at the
find head i>f Little kivCr.
®"7- At any p)a p t>r place s from th> falcl head
naVigitiob yf LitCU River over to the Miami ViU
.. ~x _
28. A~t rfny places ffo?R ifu* of
th 4 i\v r 'f TrbHTceto Or )sear CiYek,
the f?id rl'wt'f, irvcliifiircly
£> 29- At anv places from the mouth M
the river Cumberland to NafHviilc, ori the (Aid
rivet, and at Nalhville..
30. Asd »t.inv yhce or plate* tz/ithirt iTiirty
mitt sol f«nd N<jfiiVHle u»*lvr SourVwai'd', Wett
wjrd or Northward thereof.'
Should any rations be required ar any pbrrr,
or witfotn other riiftntts, scot fpecified in th« fc
pro'p'if.tls, the q* the fame to be hereafter
agi;< rd on hoi wixi the public and the coniryfttfi.
The rations to be fupphed arc io consist ol the
following artic'ka, viz.
One pound of ! tt«id or slur,
One pound of Ucf, or 3. <>t a pound of pork *
On? q-iait ot fait, }
Mvvo quarts ct vuieirar, (
Twop™„,M,i t.\4. r vu ioorat '°(' s -
On' potJiirt of )
The rations are so b'e fumifhed in fucft quanti
ties filial there fbaN at all iinies ; , duiingilic fai'd
term, be fwfficieni far the confum'p: ion oTtbe
troops at < acti of the fa<d posts, for the Tpace of at
Jrafl 3 mpnhs in advance, ir fcood and whoYe
fomc pi ovi lions, if the fame be required.
It is to beunde-floor! u, each cafe,thar all loHes
■fuftaun d by tU*» deprcdatiorts of ?hr tnemVi or by
means of the tioopsol the Statis, fhail be
(oi atthepiiccs of the articles captured or
deftioycd, on the depositions of two or more
crc«iiLH|)lt and the cerii'ficate of a
rommi flioned ofKi er, (he circum
stances of the Tols, and the amount of tne articles
for which compenfatiop is daihicd.
The contrac tor the above ftfpplies#-wiU be
made either for pti£_y<at, or fpj fed years, as may
appear eligible. Pel for\s disposed to contrail
will therefore (.onfine their offers to one year, or
they mav make their propofnions so as to admit
an el» ft ion o( the term of two years.
The <ffrr.< mav compr.fe tlic places which
baV* be'ttr fpccified, or a pan of them only.
To the Public.
Editor <>t" theOa7J".ttk f t«i Cviteb
i St AT i.s v prupale; piiblilhiu£ the Pj v-r,
wider r!ut Title, every Evening, Sunday's
excepted. .
To render it interesting as a Daily Publi
cation, it fliall contain I'oreign and domestic,
commercial and political Intelligence El
fays and Observations, local and general :— *
Maritime information Prices Current ot]
Merchandize and the Public Fupds. Alio a
fumiliary of the proceeding* of Congress,
of the' Legillatur# of this S'nte :—with a
{ketch of Congreflionjtl Debates, &rc.
Advertizing favors will be gratefully r««
ceived.
To be printed on [taper of the
bnt.a larger size lhall bi fubftitii tejf in Sfcccm-f
beriMjxt, s • . - <? .V
• The priqp Six Dollari per ta.k<;
paid Jialf Yearlij. * " ( -• .
When j, lujKtient number «f Slihrcrih«f«'ii
obtained,the l'ablication (hall c'>JJußenc«. .
In fbe-iiit'erinj, the Gaeetti wfll'lie jniblijh-,
e<J. twjce a week a"; ifte4
i;e(p«>sH'ully. AHicited by-tfie haalfcl#
fetvant,
j ; JOPI N FE NN O.
Snbfcribtiovs are received ntlhe fity 1 nverv,
Soutfr Sec and Stteef—h Mr. Bi'tjon, at the Stone
v other per fans who are ittydjffjjipn ofjub
.JtrjptittH papery ti'id t>\ the t.ditit , at hii frouje,
XV 34, Nq'rih Fi]\tiJ§tiect. v
By TffOflUS JOHNSON, DAVIT)
STUART,& DANIEL CARROLL,
Kfiuiret,
Com mission e r 5 appointed by Government to
pit fwrc rh<" PuMic Building, &c. within the
Cirv.of iVqfliivgtotiy lor ihe reception of Con
gress, and tor iheir permanent rcfidencc after
thf* yrar 1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
FBDHR A't C I TT.
50,000 Tic.kff s at 7 dollars, arc 350,000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz.
1 Sup:'i b Hotel, wuh baths, X
out bnufl'S. &C.&C. to cost £
1 C/»ih Prize ,
1 diiLo
1 ditto
1 du'to *
2 ditto
16 ditto'
s 20 diltiV"
/po.
2(id ditto ,
406' dilt'6'
1,000 ditto
15 ditto'
5,000 ai*e
1,000-s
500
J 00
5°
*5
z&
10
16,737 Prizes
33,263 Blanks
50,000
Kv this scheme at Uafi the amouot qf the tick
ets wiltrefurn 10 the fottimane advemutara, a»nj
yei the. £ity vv ill gain its- ohje#
in a magnificent building dtfigoed both for pub
lic a»d pnvate convenience.
Although some experlce muflt necc flari I y at
tend the condu6ting of the lottery, (which ex
pence will he taken from theprincipal prize] the-
CmnmiflioneVa having agreed to prefrot in re
turn a (ufficiem quantity of excellent free-llone,
together with ihe bed adapted lots for the hotel
and tor the odt-ho'lilefc, thb valde ot the lottery
entire may be fairly ratc<i ai fowling wore than
par: In thismportant inftzYicc it will be fouiid,
on to exceed al] the lotteries that
have ever been ofFered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other country. Toe keyj ofcjhc
Hotel, when complcat r will bt delivered to the
fortnriate p<Vff.(Tor of the ticket drawn aagiiinft
its number.—All the olhrr prizes will, be paid,
without &cdu%io.n,in one mwth after the drawing, by
the City Treasurer at \Vaihingtbn, or at facto
Bailk or Brinks as may be hereafter announced,
for the convenidrt'cy of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawii.g; will commence on the
6th of September rttfxt, at the City of Wafhing
t oh. * ,
Tivkdtisimv he bad of Coi. &M. Dicker's, City
TreafiiVrr o! Washington y Thaver & B ittlet, of
South-Carolina ; Gidtpn Dfnijon> Sa
vannah ; McflVs. James Weft 13 Co. Bai.nnore;
Mr. Peter Gi/man, ; arid at such oihef
places as will be hereafter puMifhed.
N, B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for thebeft Plan of aneleaarjt and con
venienvHOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Batiis, Stables, and other out houses, if preferred
on or be]are the 10th of April mx/; a*id a pre
ference will be given to the Anilt for a Con
natf, proviilvd he be duly qualified to
his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be will
be a corner rot of abotit by 20(5 fM\ with a
back avenue to the ftablcs, &c. Serous ar.<i
efti mates of tini expewfe will be exnefttd
with t*c elevations, &c. corrrpleat and 50,000
dollars must be regarded by the Architect as the
uimoft limit in the expense im,nded tor this
pu'pofe. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the *tfaus of the City
March,
THIS DAY IS r PUBLIZHiJfcJ
By THOMAS DOiJSON,
At the Stone Hoije, Xo. V, /*"lt tccohd-Slritt,-
Medical Tranfa&ions
OF THE ■
College of Physicians
OJ Philadelphia :
VoLUMt I. PART I.
Price in boards One Dollar.
Also /aicly publijhrd by T. Dobfm,
DR. UNDKRWOOD's TREATISE
On tijc ot Children, w'ith general di
rc&ion* tor the nunaucinrnt of infant from
the bink adapted both for rhe use bf Medi
cal Pra&iti6ners and private Families.
TWO VOLUMES tN ON*,
Pnce sue doll at nciiiiy bot^nj.
520
i? <
For Sale, at M. Storr,
No. 118, Maiket-ftieet,
A Sheet Map of the
prefccll,,Auftrian and Dutch Netlierlaads, ir,
wfi'ich tlie progress of the prefect War may
be tracid. Ftice three eighths oj a delUr.
And a Map <*' the Three Norttern Diftrifts.
rf Frarfre, divided into Departments. r
I Pike i ojv dollar'.
Maps of the United
State's: —Any public fpirited'gentlefi.er, pol
feiTed- of material for correcting andiinprov
ing the Maps of the several States, wSH lay
M. Carey under very particu ar obligations,
by comfpnnicatinff their. HeWm immeda*e
want of some sot New-JeTfuy and Delaware'}
of. w lich State* he is now preparing Map*.
Guthrie's Geography:
The fubrcriprion lor this wo k will be con
strued ar the present rate of twelve
dollars, till the firft day of November ne*r;
after which, it wiH be ra-i-fed to fourteen dol
lars.
' Augufl 14. 1 aw^zv
STRICT" of PE N 4 N S VM- v Wit.
P>E IT REMEMtff RI D, that, on
( LS ) JL> the thirteenth da v o'. .»n
'/ the eighferrtth vear of the Indepert
s>~—ly detV<*c ol the United St.ur> of America,
THOKtAS DOBSON, ofthe said Dirt<i&, hath
dhpontcd in thi.» Office the Ti'le of a Book, the
Right whereof he cJaim* as Proprietor, in the
following—to wit :
" TR A N SftCT IO K S OF THE CoLI-F.GE OF
' M Physic i ans*if JPvi i l ade l phi a.—VoL. I.
" Part 1.-****■ Nanfibi frdjvtt
In conformity to ihe "Ast of the Congrffs of
the United States, intituled, " An A& for the
Encoutagemeiit of learning, by feciiriug the
■ Copies of. Maps,.Chartsand Books, to the Au
, thors and Proprietors of furh Copies, during
the limes therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
D-fl, 9 ?!! of Per.vJk/f/>7.-7.
yfugufl i//, 179?-
*FORMATION is'Hefthy gweuto »ll rhc
JL Military'' Invalids of thr; XJf»itcd St«tf% thnt
tHe sums to whii-h they are Entitled to> fix rifaiith*
of iheir annual pcnfion, from the 4th day of
March last. and which will become due on the
sth of* September nW, will He paid on the said
• day by the CoVnmiflionerS of the Loans, wivh
in the States refpe6hvely under the i.lual rrgu
• la lion's.
50,c00 '
25,000
a«>,ooo :
15,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
i'o,ooo
10.000
10,000
10,006
ao.coo
*50,000
By Command of the
President of the United States.
H. KNOX, Secretory at War.
N. B. The Print eft i>r thr rcfjn&ive States ore
tequefled to piibl'fh '.he above tn ihtir neioff/dpers-ftr
the Jipate' iff two Months.
poltarfc 35*^06©
Treasury Department,
io, 1793
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propoials
will be received at tue Office cf the Se
cretary of the-Treasury, until the 14th day
of September next inciulively, to jiit i'.ilfh ny
contrail the following articles of Cloatlnng,
for the use of the United States, viz.
4.800 Hate,
5,120 Stoik-,
5,120 Stock-CJafph,
20*480 Shirts*
5,123 Velts,
5,120 Coats,
9,6:0 Woollen Overails,
9,600 Linen ditto, ,
19.200 pairs of Shfte^,
9,600 pairs 65 Socks,
5,t20 Blankets,
320, Caps,
r 320 pairs of Leather Breevhe?,
£'40 pairs of Boots,
320 pairs of Spurs,
640 paks of Stockings,
»• -v. ... J,,520 Rifle Shirts.
cloathing to be delivered at the city
of* Philadelphia ; one fourth pa» t of the whole
number of fivits on or before the J sth of Fe
bruary, one fouvih on or he fore the 15th of
Apriand the remaining half on or before
the 15th of June, 1794-
The Articles must be agreeably to fuck pat
tens; as fhal! be di-re&ed by the Secretary for
the tm£nt of War. Payment will be
made as soon as the whole of the articles fhail
have been delivered. epti4S.
THF. Editor prop<fes to continue the
publication oj the <lau-tti otihe United
States ,'Jor dijlant circulation, after the jitfi of
December next. on the foHvvcirg termi, viz.
It Jh9.1l be p'thblijhed on Wednesdays attd
Sat u r-days, on paper of the Mediumfize—which
is forger than the present.
The price. Three Dollars per ann«m,< xclufive
of polbgc.
S#bfcr\pti<fns td be received by the rsfjjcflive Pcjl- K
Majlers throughout the Union, or Jack other per jo as
as may fee pro pet to caitiff them.
. The papem to be jorwat dedby so/l twice a week.
No packets to contain Ifj.» than si x papers—and no
fubferiptionf to be reteived for a less term than fx
months.—Pay mints to J>e conjldntly fx mora hi in
d'hahce.—Twenty per ctnt. dcdutii'on jrOm the price
oft hi Gazette, wiH he allowed to titoje wi/o col-
IcSdtid fdrward the fu'fctiption inaney* free of ex
pevftin juil ff all charges for their trouble 'in (he
bus-ness*
The publication frill Contain as usual, a variety oj
original effays—foreign and jotocflic intelligence,
and a fentmary of the proceedings of the Legjhtuic
oj the Union, Sc. &c. Attention, will be paid
to'difpatching the pipers with pun&uality» and Sub
scribers may depend in receiving them as regularly *
as the pofl> arrive.
June 8.
Seat of War.
War Department,
TO THE PUBLIC.
AD V 7. R TI^FMENT.
i |vy>:mKhf itxrtn »
| j JJ- dirtetei,' i&*4 Ofcuil! .
-
»»i wh«n % t'Brtlfoyfoto I«WwrtuMw Vfaft
• <hti, o*l MHU bMMfawi
- defcritwJ Tr*& of trad, with lUMMrtcrtKtjf,
< «*'Cunip
< ofSuflV*. h»(tinning»« »Chriuoi OikTtqi,ttmf
1 kW in. itw
! liar oIV former finvcj; rAttta t» Tiuif9*i SifVt»-
( lwd ViftW letter
1 >UuM P<jJ(f »*KhSlri(tf*. ;
1.10 4 mr Shippta'i
1 l*W"((ren*t) <o*»K riat d<Urx<*t>4 fi.'utfc
(«□!♦»> "ÜBcJv chains and ij>uy-6vc .lifriut (»
Wl&e-OA IWI (titttci'tt
j i«« B?«rtd'B r an«fftHf hf rh4 ttK»!"
| lrtr» (thmi) f<|ft|y'Ck){Mta, tti'HM
! WnArntatid ci"»i»»>lo • ipeft ou (tut
! ivuiybejnj a
I ttontrof ibciice
! norkh,thiriy-nl!w' ih'grcfl friunrire*
i tiUf thSVtjMtwO thMM#w tfw-£Uc<i of bcgiiMitig,
i ctktuirting aiile 'humtncdnKt ihwf y Jsruwitli
| tha » low?lietT«(» fcafedc wi «■
; P(eniifc« ii< Within etijht Klitciof ttjc
' Alvr' £irU wart, «ms iWre if rHrrron 2 eoriv'tnt
|j CAP '-Wiita'H^b' |>iif' S«w
| ik<4l wiltr t-(ufttwn. <Vc»m of
| <yiter fnr elicir Dwelling Uujift,, Suite
! Houft.jnd fcvrnl fault bxitrimg*,
; - MARK THOIaRiMr, Shdi'j.
• ThUci vvd ilui 'T^jj
City of Washington.
January 7 th, *793-
A NUMBER of Lots »n this City will Dc of
fered for' faJe at.auSion, by the Coinmif
fioncit, on the 17th day of September next.—
One; Iputlh pan of the ptxJchjaftf is to be
paid down; tHe rfcfidiie at t annual pay
ment* with yearly incertfton the whole
pal unp- id.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Cem'rs.
Extratl of jtn A£t of the General A lie mil Iy'
Maryland, conccrning tlie Territory of Co
iumiriv, wid the Cit\; of WifhiMg'on.
u B" it That any joreig/ier may
deed or will, hereafter to he wade, take avdhold lands'
rvit&tn th.it part of tie j'aid 7 err ito'ry which lies with
in this State, in the fume muiirrer as if hi'was'a citV
zen of this Slate ; a'rhJ.. the same■ lands may be"c&/>:*
veyed by hjtn, and transmitted to and be* ink*r>itYiiby
his keirvor relations, as if-hesand thty were citizens
of thi) State : Provided, That no jor tinner fitaJi %
in virtue her-edf, he entitled to anyfurthei or other
privilege of a citizen*"
ff».. tQ>
INSW»A'NC£.-COMP-ANiY
Philadllfhia, July- ill, 1793*
NOTICE is hereby given to »he membi is of*
(he 1 nfurance Company of North AmerU
\Ca, that thr £)irc&ortf have dctlared a drvvdrnd
(t'o this day) of (fx per cent on tin amount of*'.htf
Srft inltalmeni, and of one per cent per mo«?4»v
on (ht sums paid towards the fccond and <lmd
inftultnents, calculating from he firit day of
r the' morith following that' iti which rhcfc pav*
nients were made. The Ditfid'en'd Will be psid
to the Si»»cKhi/ldYrs Or iheir R.e-o»efcniat»vei.
the Company'* Ofucc, (Ny, 119, foifih Fiom-
Strcet) at. any time after ihc yii u»ft.
EBENBZfcR HAZARD, Sec'rv.
As the mtinbi.rs.fif this Lohpany- are muci
difbcrjtd throughout the United. States, the Printers
in the fevera/Jlates 'ire requeued.tit.give the above a
pMci in their net'itfdpers.
"Hercule De Sercey,
Frojk Lcogane, Iflaud of St. Domivgo,
MAKES and fells ;:11 foitS of Mugs, Jack%
I'orringer.<, Oups, St"w-P<His, Lamps, Bc\:.
in I'm, f>iWin 01 j —He a'fo mentis ohl
tin work. As he works cheap, hr hopes forth*
piaMic eiitjcuirig&fricnt.
No. 23, Race.ftrfeCt, near Frotu-ftreet.
June *9..
HERCULE DE SERGEY,
DE Leogj|»e, Tfie do Sr. poimnquc, travaille
en fer Blanc, de tome forte de manieres a
comirtintfe ct a hbn marehe/
A PnlladelphVe, ce I*2. JuinJ^qg.
No. 23, pre? From-flreet.
FOR S/ILE, BY
MATHEW CARE V,
At his Store, No. 118. Market-fticct,
PH UAD ELKHIA,
THE AMERICAN MUSEUM, from its
commence meat iri January, 1787, to m«
termination in D'-cemHer, 1792, in twelve vo
lumes, price, neatly bound and lettered 8 nine
teen dollars and one fifth.
The opinion of the Present of the. United
Stales, refpe-Sing this work, is as t olio*' 6 :
" I believe the American Museum has met
with extensive, I may lay, with univcrfal ap
probation fr6m competent judges ; ior I atn ot
opinion, that the vrork is not only eminently
calculated to difteminite political, agricultural,
philosophical, and othr r valuable is sot mation ;
but that it h: s been uniformly conduced ioifh tajie y
attention, and propriety. If to Chefe important
objects be fupeiadded tbe more immediate di
(ign of rescuing public documents from oVli
vion—l will venture to pronounce,'as my tefl
thfjjent, THAT A MOttE USEFUL LITtRAR.It
FLAN HAS NEVER BEEN UNDER T AKJ N IN
AMERICA, or one MORE deserving of pub-
LIC ENCO U RAOEMENT "
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-llrect, New-York.
iTjcndtng to confine Inrr.fclf
entirely to tht PURCHASE & SALh of
STOCKS on COMMISSI ON, bt gsieaveio of
fer his fervieea to hisfrieftdsand eft be r», i n the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to iavor him withthcitbtflinefs, may depend
upon havir><Tiitranfa6led withtheutmoft fide»
Jitv *nd dispatch.
Ordert from Philadelphia, BoOon, or sny
other part of the Utjitcd States, w ill be £Lr
attended to. ,
t •
Jone. s .