1 | jj** *jf"
SK *' -—* 'JL
V-»I *
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS V\ JOHN FEN NO, No. 34, IS»Tg FJ FT H.STREET, PHii.ADl.l VI! I -
[No. 100 of Vol. IV.j
UNION.
S E CON i>
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
A'T THI SECOND SESSION.
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
. in the State 6f Pennfylvaiv.a, on Monday
, ;vtbe;fifth.»f N»yeir»ber, one tlwmCln'sl
. feffifi-twiidfed. »nd ninety-two.
AN ACT for repealing the fsveral
Import Laws of the United States,
so far as they may be deemed to
impose -< Huty on ufeful Bealts
imported for Breed.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States ot
Imerica iji Congress aiTembled, That tlie le
'eral laws of the United States, inipofing dti
ies on goods, wares and merchandize iin
torted into the United States, so tar as t! ey
nay be deemed to impose a duty on
attle, flieep, swine oi" other ufeful beasts, "un
dated into the United States, for bleed, ihall
ie repealed.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House of ReprffintaiiveS'
•JOHN ADA Vis, Vice- Prtjicitiit u{ the
United States, and 1 > ejidcht of the Senate.
APPRO VtD FEBRUARY 27, 1 793.
CEO. WASHINGTON,
I'njidcut aj the United St itu.
AN ACT making proviliori for the
per foils therein mentioned.
WHEREAS Colonel Harding, ami
Txuc'ftiar., while
employed in carrying nielfagSs ot' peace to
tlic hostile Indians, were kil'ed ly the said
Indians :
iiE it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United Spates of Ame
rica in assembled, That four hun
dred and fifty dollars per annum for ieven
years, he allowed to- the widow and orphan
children of the said Colonel John Harding, and
the sum of three hundred dollars per annum,
for the fame term of seven years, to the or
phan children Vf the said Major Alexander
True man, to commence on the firft day of
July, one thou fan d Jeven hundred and ninety
and to be paid half yearly, at the Trea
sury, to the said widow, and to the guardians
of the fa orphan-chiidren, or to their legal
attornies.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House of Reprejertativeu
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-irejidint oj the
Untied States, and Prejident oj the Senate.
APPRO VED FEBRUARY 27, 1793-
GEO. WASHINGTON,
Prcfident of the United btates.
AN ACT making an appropriation
to defray ihe expense of a treaty
with the Indians north welt ot
the Ohio.
BE it eita&ed by the Senate and Hou r e of
fteprefentatives of the United States ot
America in Congress affcmbled, That a sum
not exceeding one hnnil ed thousand dollars,
arising from the "urplus of former appropria
tions unexpended, shall be and the fame is
hereby a)oropiiated to defraying the expense
of negor.-lilting and treating with the holtile
Indian tribes north we ft of the river Ohio.
And be it further enacted, Thateach of the
commi'lfioners,' who may be appointed for
managing such negociations and treaties,
fnal! be entitled to an allowance, eXclulive ot
his neceffarv expenies, of eight dollars per
day, during his actual service, to be paid out
the monies so appropriated.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
** * of the Houje oj liepr'cfintattves.
JOHN LANGDON, Prrfdtit pro
tempore of the Senate.
APHOV'II) MAR c H 2, 1 793"
GEO. WASHINGTON,
Prejtde ft of the United States.
AN ACT providing for the pnynicnt
of the First Instalment <tue on a
Loan made of the Bank of the
United States.
BE it enacted by the Senate ant Honft of
Repreferttativcs of the United States of
America, in Congiefs ailcmbled, Thai the
President of the United States be, and he
hereby is authorized and eiWpowered to ap
ply two iiumlied thoiil'and dollar?, of the mo
iz r<- bt.i pa'fc
fuance of the fourth fettion of" flic a/V, ii/ti
tuled u An ast making provision for the re
daction of the public debt," in payment of the
firft instalment, due to the bank of the Uni
ted State:;, upon a loan made of the laid bank,
in pursuance of the eleventh feftion of the
for incorporating the fubfci ibci s to the iaid
bank.
APPROVED, MARCH 2, 1793.
GEO. WASHINGTON,
Prejidcfit oj the United.States.
AN ACT for the relief of Elijah
Bultwick.
BE it enacted by the Senate and Iloule of*
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress ailembled, That as an
indemnification, and to reijuburfe.Elijah Boft
wick, for certain costs and expenditures, he
v/as put to, iii defending a pruiecution agair.R
him, on contradts which he made, at an agent
fcf the deputy commiflary general of pur cha
fes in tii£ noithern department, in the pur
chase of catrle for the ufe'of tiie conti' ental
army, at a time, during the late war, when
they were in great u aiit of provifion r , there
be granted to him one hundred and forty five
dollars and forty two cent , payable out of
any unappropriated money in tiie treafurv of
the United States.
llt is from the judicious observations and:
perfpicuoui arguments of writers like Mar
cellus, ai a riot from the vajiid rhapfodiet of
--Iv*j Stat* that
CANS are to form just concept-ions of the
meaUirc-, necoffary to be purfu'ed, at the
prelim eventful pefiod, to secure their
JrfQKOUR,F2.LIC1 I'Y aiy) NATIONAL
PROSPERITY.] Edit. Cent-
A . ;•*'
« NO N ROSTRUM, T ANT AS COUPON [.RE
L/ras.f
HAVING attempted, in a late paper, to
flie\v that a rigid adherence to the sys
tem of Neutrality between the European na
tions now at war, is equally the dictate of
juflice and of policy, to the individual citizens
of the United States, while the nation remains
neutral, the question recurs, what is the line
of conduct prescribed to the nation itfelf, at
this delicate jun&ure, by those, immutable
laws ofjuftice and equity, which are equally
obligatory to sovereigns and to fubjefts, to
republics and to kings. I fliall not make any
consideration of general policy a leparate fub
jeft of enquiry, because I hold it to be one of
the moll undeniable principles of government,
that ihe truest policy of a nation consists in
the performance of its duties. The rights of
nations are nothing mote than an extension
of the rights of individuals to the great socie
ties, into which the different portions of man
kind have been comb ned ; and they afe all
mediately or immediately derived from the
fundamental pofltion which the author of
chriftianitv has taught us as an article of reli
gion, and which the reviled declaration of
rights of the National Convention in France
have to contain the elleiice of liber
tv. " Liberty," fays the new Declaration of
Rights, " consists in the power of doing what- |
ever is not contrary to the rights of others."
" Whatsoever," fays the Saviour of mankind,
" von would that men fhoulddo to you, do ye
even so to them." Let us therefore be can- !
tious to do nothing contrary to the rights of
others, and we (hall continue to enjoy and to
deserve the blessings of freedom. Let us do
as we (hould chufe others might do to us, and
we <hall deserve the favors of Heaven.
Wednesday, May i 5, 1795 V
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
oj the Hoiijevj Reprejcnlalives.
JOHN LANGDON, Prefix »t pro
tempore vt the 6cttcite,
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
oj the House of Reprejentatives.
JOHN LANGDON, Pufient pro
tempo*? oj lilt Senate.
APPOVSD MAkCH 2, 1793-
GEO. WASHINGTON,
Prepdtrloj the United States
FROM /HE iOLUMHUN CINTJNEL.
MR . RUSSE I. L ,
If these are the principles upon which our
national condut-t is to be grounded, it wilj
foLlow, that an impartial and unequivocal
neutrality between the contending parties is
prescribed to us*'as a dutj;, unless we are bound
by some exilting contract or stipulation, to
make a common cauie with one of them.
I have already said it : The natural state
of all nations, with respect tu one another, is
a state of peace—" damns pchmufqut viciffin,
It is what we have a right to expert from
them, and for the lame reafou it is our duty
to observe it tuutouis them. In addition Co
this natural obligation, we are bound by ex
press treaties with F>* ce, England, Holland
and Pruflia, to oblrrve the laws of peace with
the subjects of their different governments,
and we have no right to interfere in their
contentions. Whatever raay be the current
of our fetuiuients, or of our opinio:!-.—whit-
397
V. : 'Miy-hr t''? lavjrt? ■vy trpr
pafiiotis, of the unfiles i'nfpiieti by our a'f.'c
tion*, we are not coniHtuted judges of riie
refb'ip&ive merits of their cau.e. From a
feeling of gratitude towards a nation which
aftiftecT us in the days of our own calamity, we
inav be d'rfpofed to throw a veil'over their :
own errors and crimes, and wilh them that
success which their frantic enihufiafm lias
rendered so improbable. As the descendants
of Englillimen, we may be willing to lose the
y of all the miseries theyinfli&ed upon
us in our just struggle again ft: them, and even
the relics of their resentment, which iti 11 re
fufe the complete fulfilment of the treaty of
peace, and we may wifli them still to retain
their reputation for fuccefsful courage and
conduct in war—as men, we mult undoubt
edly lament the effufion of human Mood, and
the mass of misery and distress which is pi e
paring fort he great part of the civilized world;
but as the citizens of a nation at a vail dis
tance from the continent of Europe—of a
nation whose happiness confiits in a real in
dependence, di Icon netted from all European,
iuterefts and European politics, it is our duty
rrmain, the peaceable and fiieut, though
forrowful fpeeVators of the sanguinary fcenc.
With the reasons for neutrality lY.g<refted by
these considerations of natural dnty and of
positive ft ; pulation, a forcible argument con
curs, derived from out in t ere ft. In the ge
neral confli'ft of all the commercial European
Nations, the advantages which will be
thrown into our hands, and the a&ivitv and
vigour which will be given to every branch of
our commerce, are too obvious to need any
difcufllon. As the natural consequence of
War, the neceliities of ast the belligerent
powers' must increale "in proportion as their
mearts offupply will divninifli, and the profits,
which m\ift infallibly flow to us from their
wants, can have no other limitation than the
extent of our-capfacity to provide for them.
With ail these inducements to a decided
neutrality, let us look at the other fide of the
medaL ;md fee what would be the con ft que nee
of our making ourselves partizans in thfc con
test.-—First, we fnouJd be engaged in a Ojuar
rel, with the laws of nations against us. It
.sttoftldbe a violation of oar politics? duties;
n departure from the principle'; of national
justice, and an express breach of the positive
llipulations of peace and fnei dlhip with the
several belligefent powers, contained in the
treaties which I have already'mentioned. An
a<ft of partiality in favor of either party would
be an a«sfc of perfidy to the other.
I have so full a confidence in the equity and
virtue of my countrymen, that I ihotald reil
the argument on this point alone, if 1 had not
perceived that a contrary system of policy, is
avowed by men of some influence among nr.,
and openly recommended in some of the pub
lic prints of the day. A system, which prf
feffing to arise from an extraordinary at
tachment to the cause of Liberty and Equa
lity, may in reality be traced to the common
(purees of private and private am
bition, perhaps at once the cause and efteft
of an implicit devotion to Frame, and an
antipathy to England, exceeding the limits
of a national resentment.
To men of this description, arguments de
rived from the 'obligations of natural jufiice,
or of written contractwill be perfectly nuga
tory. " Tfy? Rights of Man," will b? tl.eir
answer to tlie one, and 44 Liberty and Equa
lity," to the other. I apply therefore to a
principle of more efficacious operation in
their minds, if their own iniereft is in any
degree connected with that of their country,
and ask them what would be the inevitable
consequence of a war, with all Europe, ex
cepting only the present prevailing power iir
France ? The experience of the late war,
would perhaps, discourage an attempt on the
part of Great-Britain to conquer this conti
nent, but we have a (ea-coait of twelve hun
dred miles every where open to invafion —
and where is the power to protect it ? We
have a flourishing commerce, expanding to
every part of the Gfol>e, and where will it
turn when excluded from every market of
the Earth ? We depend upon the returns of
that commerce for in any necefTaries of life,
and when thOse returns (hall be cut off, where
ftiall we look for the supply ? Wc are in a.
great measure destitute of the defenOvc ap
paratus df War, and who will provide us
with the arms and ammunition that will be
indispensable ? We feel severely at this mo
ment, the burden of our public debt, and
where are the funds to support us in the
dreadful extremity to which our own niad
nefs and iniquity would reduce us '-—Not to
mention the infallible deft*uftion of our Fi
nances, and the national bankruptcy, which
the friends of tie fytfetn I am combating,
would perhaps* welcome a* a blelTing.—Aie
Sir, imaginary appreheVlions, or are
thev oojefts of trivial moniej e* ? Our nation
al exiitence may deper J upon the event of
our' Councils in the p.efcjpr tiifis, and 10 ad
vise u* to engage voluntarily in the War, is
to s'V.i a flajSNr at tlic of the country.
[Whole No. 422.]
?. ' ,'X i .
77fJ•?:/'fcg. ii tic fit fl ~Sp9c-iif ever
made by I,oiils XVI.
EATkIJ oil tlie Throne to which
it has picafed God to raise us,
v. e hope his bounty v»i)J lupport
our youth, and guide us in the
means to make our people happy —
this is our fii it delire. We know
this felicity principally depends on
a wife adminiltration of our finan
ces, for it is that which has a chief
relation between a sovereign and
his fubjetfts ; and it is towards this
point that our firrt care and solici
tude shall be directed.—We have
had rendered us an account of our
receipts and expences, and have
seen with pleasure there were fuf
ficient funds for the exadf payment:
of all arrears and interests, as well
as of a reimbui (ement of all charg
es,as we consider these eng.ageir.ems
as debts c»f the slate, and as a pi o
perty in common with all other we
aie bound to protetft, therefore en
titled to our fit ft care After hav
ing thus provided fur the public
creditor, and allured these piinoi
ples ofjuftice which shall form the
balisofotir reign, we (hall occupy
ourselves with relieving our people
from the weight of their preftut
burthens. We cannot arrive at this
cleArable end but by order and eco
nomy. The fruits which shall re
sult from them are not the w<,rk ot
a moment ; and me prefer enjoying
this ease of our subjects a little latet,
than to dazzle them by a relief the
(lability of which is not yet allured.
There are expenles indilpenfably
neceflary with ihe fafety ot our
rfaJm. There are oiheis, which,
depending on our liberaliiy, may
be fucceptible.of (oine moderation,
but which, having acquired certain
rights by loivg poliethon, can be
oiconouiifed but gradually. There
are, finally, expenfts which hold
with our persons, and with the
splendor of oui' court ; on these we
can follow our inclinations mere
promptly ; and we have already
taken steps to i educe them to cer
tain bounds : — i:uchfacrifsces as these
huill cufl us nothing,, whilst they can re
lievs our people ; their happtiuf Jhall
be our gltry ; and the good we can do
thtm will be the fwtetejl renmptuce of
our labors.
FRANC E.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Address oj tki National Conization
te the Dutch.
"VTOUK Republic, Batavians, hav-
JL frig lb It' her titles, the French
found the nil at Breda, and are ntyr
proceeding to reftoi e them to you.
France when en/laved, fuffcted you
to be opprelled by the uliians, who
always thirlt after biood aiid iol.a--
France e)nancipat:il, comes to dfeliyer
you tiom those opprefi'ors by her
armies that pant for liberty and glo
ry. It is for Republics to efface the
arms of Defpotifin. Hiilory bears
witntfs to the unceasing efforts
which you once made to obtain your
freedom ; bur flie records also your
imprudence, founded, perhaps, on
gratitude, by which your fetters
have been rivetted. It is not enough
that you have wrested from the ra
vages of the lea, iminenfc advantag
es that have been devoured by En
gliih ambition—you muit also rid
yourl'elves of domestic tyrannies.
Your ancestors fti uggled for eighty
years againll the united forces qf
fupeiftiiion and defpotifui. Liberty
requires of you only a single day to
ettablilh completely your liberty
and independence.—Governed for
ages by foreign powers, you ought
to be weary of being transmitted,
like live stock, in foccelHon, from
the Iloufe of Huiuauitto that of Ba
varia , and tram thence to the houseof Burgundy, i•• order to be trans
mitted 10 the Houies of Aultria and
I,allay. .
A Captain General of the Uniretl
Provinces, petitioned by the tlatcs,
is become your matter—yvur ty
rant ■ and thus it is thaT you have
Jolt all ill givingyour confidence to
one man. Your anceltors law iu
your S;adiholder only the firlt fub
jedt of the Rate ; the guardian of
vour liberties: but even in ihofe
goodly times •your Prince was none
other than a despot. The' heredi
tary chief of a republic is her natu
ral and mod formidable enemy.
The firll act, therefore, of the
French Republic, will be to oettroy
the ancient government. It is ne
cellaiy to deltroy totally the roots
»f ihe Stadtholderare, if you v illi
to prevent their fli-jdting forth,with
new vigor. There is in your annals
a folenin editft of adjuration and of
independence, which put an end to
the tyranny of Philip. You said,
" Men were net made for Princes, but
Princes for Men they out to be
calhiered, when, instead of defend
ing them, they become their ene
mies. Let the people proclaim the
declaration of rights, to aboliih the
Stadtholdei fliip, to recover i 111 menfe
funis which your venal magiflrates
have, under a thousand pretexts,
prodigalized to the house of Naflau,
to deltrpy the ancient ariftocracy,to
aboliih the sale of mankind, prac
tiled in the midlt of joii, in the
name of your Eaft-lndia company,
a traffic more infamous than prcfiing
iu England, to organize a Ample
and economical government, to mo
dify or to suppress unjust taxes on
the firft neceflaries of life, to main
tain their immense credit, to which
all Europe is associated, to consoli
date public faith ; —fuch are the
articles of peace and alliance which
the French Republic offers to you,
such are the benefactions of liberty
and equality ; such are the conditi
ons which we flipulate for the hu
man race, proclaiming its omnipo
tency, and aliening its rights.
In facl, what is your Stallholder ?
—a Captain General becomes a mo
narch, a fubjetft grown into a maf
rer, a tribune swelled into a tyrant,
a pupil, an ally of those Brunf
wicks, one of whom devours your
commerce in India, whilst the other
has enslaved your Republic, and
dared ro pollute your territory.
What is your Stadtholder then ? —
a servile Parasite ofthe Englifli,who
dictate their laws to hini, and to
you also ; a vaflal of Pruflia, who
obeys her bayonets & her intrigues ;
is it such an authority as this that
you would maintain ?
Re-trace the honorable pages of
your hilfory, and fay, if theliigheft
degree of your glory and prosperi
ty does not date from that epocha
when you firft had a republican ad
mintftration ; fay, if it was not that
free form of government which ex
cited the envy of foreigners, whet
ted the hatred of the House of O
range, and lighted up the war of
Kings ? That epocha, for you will
this day be renewed. Courage and
virtue will be a better defence for
you than a Stadtholder. Liberty,
courage, and virtue, such are the
true chiefs of Republicans, which
can never be fatal or dangerous to
them,
To destroy all the vestiges of ihat
hereditary authority, created firft
by gratitude, and terminated by ty
ranny, will not be fufficient ; liber
ty cannot permit the hideous traces
of feudality, of nobility, or roagif
terial aristocracy, to dwell amonoft
yon. The liberty of persons is no
thing, without the liberty of lands ;
they mull he enfi anchifed. The
pealants are every where the most
zealous defenders of republics. The
momentary exercise of the revolu
tionary power cannot alarm the Ba
tavians. How can those who have
jiot been afraid of eternizing the
despotism of a Stadtholder, not for
a moment confide in a great and
free nation, who will but regulate
the firft emotions of liberty, CTulh
every party that would opptefs it,
and tender abortive the birth of
anarchy. You will not liftentothe
calumnies of your enemies ; they
know that it is the intention of
*Vance neither io domineer over,
or enilave any nation, but torcitore
its sovereignty to it. Revolutions,
to be productive of good, ought
well tp be organized, and we bring
to you but the fruits of our experi
ence. To every resolution a provi
sional power is uiay
well temper the excels and
of perfdhal interest, and ttep the
rapiSwy of the diforganizaiion of
the ancient order of things, replace
for a flioit time eclipsed authority,
and check the devaluations oi anar
chy.
Commercial jealousy if one oftfce
courgcs of e;irth, and we will de-
Iroy it.—Lilten to your brave an
eflors, you, the proud fellow coun
rymen of Ruyter, ceal'e to bow tin
ier the yoke of a foreign power,or
nider the weight of doineltic op
jreflion. deteflation of slave
y ought to ferment in every Data
■ iari heart. For you to enjoy the
idvnntages of civil liberty, is not
"ufficient ; for it cannot be secure
without political liberty also.—Seize
his epocha, when a great people is
jroclaiming the Rightsof Man, and
>f nations—and learn to unite your
elves to your brethren, that you
nay seize again poflTefiion of your
ights;
Slavery has ages of duration, li
>erty offers but moments of oppor
unity. Break, iienceforth, that
mpious alliance, formed with the
'3 mi lies of tyrants. —The shout «f
iberty has harrowed up their fools.
Toarins, generous Batavians ! those
who (hall spill their blood and ex
pend their treasures, will be true
creatures of your independence.—
Unite yourselves to France in the
combat of defpotifni ; the Republic
will defend your liberty like her
own, and will never lay down her
arms until it shall be confirmed.
There is a holy coalition between
all nations worthy of liberty, until
every species of royalty shall be a
bolished by the unanimous consent
of the human race.
March «4
The commifTaries in lielgia h3ve Tent to
the Convention. 3 decrees, the fir ft of which
orders General Miranda to present himfelf
immediately to the Convention, to give an
account of his conduct—and they have direct
ed Dumourier to take the proper Heps on the
occasion—by the second decree, they have
considered the army of Louvain as under a
diforp;anization, through the means of some
difaffedted persons. The army in general re
quires, that penal laws shall be passed, and the
cmnmiiPries sent citizen Danton to Paris to
solicit the Convention on,this subjeCt—by the
third decree they have sent to Paris, and have
suspended the colonel of the 73d regiment of
infantry, who for several days was ordering
the volunteers and sundry battalions of the
army, to disperse from the main body, con
trary to the dire&ions of Gen. Dumourier.
The Convention has confirmed the fa d
three decrees, and ordered Miranda and the
said colonel to be brought to their bar.
The niinifter of war has sent to suppress
the insurgents who infect the department of
Mayenne and Loire, 22 battalions of infantry,
2 regiments of cavalry, ij general officers,
and 53 pieces of ordnance. These are in
ftrufted not to answer to the conspirators in
any other way than by the fire of their guns,
aad not quit their posts until they have exter
minated them.
Three adminiftratlve bodies of Nantz, in
form, that for ten days past the country was
opprelTed with insurgents. The cityofNantz
alone has been preserved. These insurgents
were in number near 4000, and covered a
space of three leagues near the environs of
Nantz.
A letter from the commandant of the na
tional guards at Nantz, was since received
and read in the Convention, which mentions,
that the insurgents had been puriued, and
their chief was killed with many others, so
that the whole body was dispersed.
AMERIC A.
ST AUNTON (Virginia) April 23.
Exlratl of a letter jrom a gentleman of this & tale,
to his friend in Kmxvitte, dated .Maich 14
" 11 with no small degree of concern, that
I hear of diflentions taking place among you,
and a spirit bf opposition to the g'overninenTT
It may be said that felf prefervatioji is the
fiift law of" nature ; that you cannot with
folded arms stand flill and fee your friends
and neighbours taken off by degrees, by the
tairhiefs savages, without endeavoring to re
taliate. Let me ask, if you can in a niopifh
way efFectually chastise your enemies, or by
that means bring about a peace. Every man,
on cool reflection, must answer in the nega
tive. Then why such unadvised attempts;
and why not wait the iflue of the meafuies
oftlje general government. • Congrels is not
inattentive ; the executive of the United
Stares, and of some of the individual State",
are anxiously solicitous about the v.eftern
frontier. GreDt plans cannot he in
an hour, tier in a few davs. Have patioine,
my countrymen, and we (hail ioon f«, it wv
398
act like got>d citizen: »f a great tepublie, that
things will be better ordered than if our nar
row schemes bad taken place. In the mean
time be well prepared, and ast upun the dt
fenfive with vigor j never be oft your guard
klways be ready to repel force with double
blows. If, like Lions mlibed of their young,
you turnetl out and cut off Watts ar.d his
party, on tlisir retreat, you would have at
chieved fometliing worthy of brave and ex
perienced men. Had Captain Handley's men
flood by him and fought, vk>ory would l ave
tieen certain. All your other misfortunes
Jiave proceeded in a gieat degree, l - om a fa
tal felf-fecurity, Look baik my countrymen
bn your own conduct ; be ready to blame
fvhere amiss—stand ready at the call of legal
•authority, to turn out, and do ydur part in
defence of your fellow-citizens —scorn the
'baife plan of hiring substitutes—do your own
proportion of service ;it will make yon a
band of patriots and heroes, and secure the
lading prosperity and liappineft ofyour coun
try.
" One word more—This I can affurt you,
and all our friends over French-Broad, that
a<ft-s of violence, contrary to public authority,
will be prejudicial to them in having the land
office opened on an unfavorable footing to
their views and interests."
PETERSBUGH, (Vir.) May 3.
By Capr. Morris of the ftiip Bland
ford, arrived at Bermuda Hundred
from Glasgow, which place he left
the 2jth of March, we learn—That
orders have been sent to the Gover
nors of the federal counties of the
kingdom of Ireland, to seize the
ordnance belonging to any military
' within their diftri<fts,
Government •'having deemed it ex
pedient, as the (landing army in
Ireland is adequate to its defence,
that armed bodies, not of the ap
pointment, or under the coiuroul of
his Majesty, fliall no where be fuf
fered to appear in force.—That 011
the 12th of March, in the Britilh
House of Commons, on motion of
the Attorney-General, leave was
given to bring in a bill on the sub
jets of a traitcrous correspondence with
France, in which it was proposed to
make it high treason to fell,deliver,
or cause to be delivered, to the per
sons at present exercising the fo'e
reign authority of France, their ar
mies, navies, or fubjetSs, any naval
or military (lores, coin, bullion,
corn, clothing, or other neceflaries ;
as also for any Britifli fubje# to
'purchase lands in France, or (lock
in the French funds, or to lend mo
ney upon lands in France, by way
of mortgage.
SALEM, Slay 7
By Capt. Byrne, from Martinique,
we learn, that that island is (till un
happy from its internal di(Tentionß.
The Planters continue v eir attach
ment to the ancient vnineut,
and oppose by force the Patriots.
On the ijth of April, a company of
Whiles, and another of Blacks,
were sent by the Ariflocrats to a
place near Fort Royal, where they
intercepted a boat, and took prison
ers three Patriots of note ; they
also seized and carried oft*a consi
derable quantity of ammunition,
in confequetice of this provocation,
two columns marched from Fort
Royal on the i6th, under Gen. llo
chambeau and M. de St. Cyran,with
a grasshopper in each column. At
9 o'clock the General's column at
tacked, and a Ikirmifh of two hours
ensued : they dislodged the Aristo
crats from their out polls, and took
their second in command prisoner.
On the return of the patriots, M.de
St. Cyran was shot dead by one "of
his own detatchment, who alledged
that he was ati Ariltocrat. Twelve
of Gen. Kochambeau's men were
wounded in the ikirmifl) with the
Arillocrats, 3 of whom died before
Capt. Byrne failed, which was on
the t 7th.
Tliere is 110 regular force at Mar
tinique :—The Patriots do 15 days
jtury in turns,and with.much cheer
lulnefs and alacrity ; being deter
mined to defend the island against
any attack ; though ftiould the En
glish make one, a diversion would
be made in their favor by the Aris
tocrats, whowifh.and probably have
solicited, their protection.
The Committee of Safety at St.
Pierre is eon fiii uted upon ti ue equa
lity principles, Toolifting of White,
Mulatto and Rlnck members.
NEW-YORK, May n.
The brig Commerce, capt. Shurtliff,
arrived here this forenoon, in 35 days
from Amsterdam ; but lias brought no
n<wfpap;rt, nor tny nsw , <*•„
later than we have already had '
We lean, by the capui,, and M,,
pers, that in fever a! fevers ban!,, Z
French and Austria,,, have feft g , m
bers of men : that it w„ reported J
re " C , were 0n thf relrcat ' and tbat
they had given op, or was expeftea tfc fT
would give lip tlie several conqueitj tb»
wffV" ; wdthititwwS
be difficult to make their reireai good, 1 ,,
account of thevalt nnmbe.s of
Dumounet had to contend with. 0 r
mformant fay,, th.t V*| er , Cr Wi|
killed afcvas reported, Ut ....lJ
eJ to he gone to Paris.
1 hey report also, that in AmSad*.
they are puzzled much by the
contradictory reports they hear from day
to day; that it was to leain
with any degree of precision, which 0 f
the armies had fuftered moll in the i'ever.l
engagements ; but it was generally tho't
by what they heard, that the F.en.-h had
fuftered much, as it was believed they
were on the retreat.
BOSTON, March 8.
Yesterday arrived the fcip Chirlottt,
Capt. Mackay, from London. By this
ship our attentive London corrcfp,,„d cIU
has continued his communication of pa
pers, &c. to the the 3 d of April, inch
five. Extracts therefrom follow.
i, HAGUE, March 2«.
Official intelligence of the battle of
the 18th is publiflied. Both fides fuff er .
Ed much. The loss of the comhined for
ces icoo killed, 3000 wounded. The
French in killed, wounded and milling,
loft 7000 men, 32 pieces light artillery.
The capture of the artillery is of little
confequtnce, except as evidence of vie
tory.
In thea&ion of the I rßih i2o,ooomen
were at times engaged.
Gen. Valence was rtot killed, but bad
ly wounded in the head, in the battle of
the 18th. He was carried to Brutfds.
Counter Revolution in France.
The entire stoppage of communication
with France, which has jufl taken place,
neccflarily deprives us of intelligence from
that quarter. To what ciicumftance this
sudden lefolution of the French rulers in
to be attributed, we cannot fay. It is,
however, probable, that the interruption
of a communication so evidently advanta
geous to themselves, has been occasioned
by fbme circumstances of a domestic na
ture, the knowledge of which they were
desirous of withholding from us as long
as pofiible. We know that in Brittany a
very formidable infurre&ion has taken
place, which was well conduced, and ap
peared very likely to spread into other
provinces of that unhappy kingdom. This
may have occasioned a confidcrable fer
ment at Pan's, and have produced in ad
dition to the deplorable intelligence re
ceived from the Netherlands and the banks
of the Rhine, a frefli efftrvefcence and
new scenes of desolation and raaflacrc.
LEYDEN, March 26.
We arc informed by advices from
Heufdeii, that on the 22d intt. between
11 and 12 at night, a detachment of the
Swiss regt. of Gumoens took by affsiik
the strong battery which the French had
eftablilhed at Raanfdenk ncai Gertruy
denberg. r Fhe French abandoned ail
their artillery and warlike ammunition,
and had not eves time to spike up their
cannon. This fuccefis will doubtless facili
tate the attack against Gevtiuydenberg,
which is said to have been invested on the
23d by the Piufiians and Dutch troops
united.
OSTEND, March 30.
The French troops left this town for
Dunkirk about three o'clock this after
noou, and at four, one of his
maiefty's cutters entered the port. Moll
of the piizes had (ailed before the cutter
arrived; the others, which were to have
failed this day, are (lopped. Three to
giifti brigs arc (till here, under t »e car
of the Britilh consul.
HAGUE, March 28-
A letter was this day receive r0 "
Captain Bentinck dated
Boisle Due, containing " ,tcli \ cnC V
Antwerp and Maeftricht that t e
ced guard of the Aultrian .j e
Bruffelson the 20th at noon: Th« »
French was poised at Ha,!e : Tha.country from Bois le Due to Lier, .was
clear of the cnemjt ; and that the French
force {till at B'eda, amounted to 4000,
and that at Gertruydenberg to 2500 men.
rHfl'e, the place at which the French
army has retreated to, is in Austrian Ne
theilands, ir. Hamault, 8 miles S. VV. of
Btufaels, and 2 3 N. of Mons.]
Accounts are aifo received that Deilt
was taken on the 20th in the attack by
Colonel Mylins ; that a conliderable ma
gazine was left by the French at Lou
vain ; and that, in the afFair of the 22d,
the Auftrians had 1000 men killed and
wounded, and the French had 4QPQ kill
ed.
Accounts have bsen received here from
the Prince of Saxe-Cobourg, dated Biei
beck, near Louvain, the *3 d initanc,
itating, that 011 the preceding day he
had attacked the French, who were ad
vantajjeoufly ported between Tireletriont
and Louvain ; That the engagement was
long and obstinate ; but that the Freach
were beat, and driven beyond Luuvain,
and were then polled behind the Dyie,
between Louvain and JJruffeU,
March 30.
Intelligence has been received here,
that the citadel of Namur, is taken by the
Anftrijhs, and that a conliderable body
of the Aaftnan troops has been detached
from that place to join the Prince of Saxe-
Coßourg's army.
LONDON, April j,
Teller Jay Aifpatches from Holland were
re'rmcd at the, ■Jbcrelary offlute's office, the
fubjiance of which <we underfland to be—
That the garrifoas of Breda and Gertrvy
denberg surrendered by capitulation on the
28 th lilt, that the troops of the Bat avian
legion in both places, were included in the ca
pitulation on the fame terms with the French,
and that both were allowed to march out
with the honors of war, and take the route
for. France.
'The fame difpatihes arid, that advices had
sen received from B ruffe!s, dated the 2ijth,
it which time it was known there that Du-~
nourier having left his pojl at Halle, was
ontinuing his retreat to Valenciennes, and
hilt the Aujirians had taken pojfeffton. of
Antwerp, Namur and Mons.
Letters, vie know not by what mode of
tonveyance, have been received, dated March
2j, at which lira? ctll was perfectly quiet.
Of all the military characters employed in
the continental war, the duke of Brunfwick
has been the mojl unfiiccefsful. Prince Co
iourg has gained honor by his late fuccrjfes—
Dumourier and Clairfayt have added to their
reputation as generals, both by vi&ory and de
feat ; but the J Juke of Brunfwick added no
thing to his laurels by his irruption into
France, and by his retreat lojl them all.
Ofiend was entirely evacuated by the
French on Saturday lajl. Several v.'Jfels were
taken therein. The garr'tfon conjified of 2000
men, now retreating towards France.
Two regiments of French emigrants are
to be raised in England. Commanders, mar
quis de Choifeul, and the duke d'Harcourt.
Gen. Dumourier has requejled of general
Clairfayt, a trice and conference —the requejl
was anfwertd— 1 ' Prepareyourfelf for bat
tle, / am after you."
Gen. Cujline, on the 20th March attacked
neae Stormberg, a party of 500 Prussians,
and dejeatedthem. The Prussians however,
fought with great obfliuacy and ejfeß.
Philadelphia, May 15.
Sunday last the (hip Morning Star, Captain
RogerKean, arrived fro»n Havre de Grace,
which port he left the 28th March, and brings
Paris papers as late as the 25th.
Letter from the Minister of War to the Prefi
dent of the Convention, dated 2 id March.
I have received a letter from O'neral Du
monrier, which I have communicated to the
Committee of general defence, that announ
ces to me a copfiderahle desertion, and the
misfortune is confirmed by the CommilTaries
t'om the Convention in Selg'a. I took im
mediately all the meafuies in mv power to
flop the evil. The foUliern commit pillages
and continue robberies, which alienate the
affections of the inhabitants, at a time when
we have the pre.iteft interest to u<e. a contra
ry fpirtt. 1 have given orders to the Gens
d'Armerie to purl'ue and to bring back the
defcrters.
1 have caofed the military law anil courts
martial to be put in »t>rc« ; but they are not
fliScient. I look on it as one of the moil el
fential ohjetls of importance, that the Na
tional Convention past military laws during
the nar. Thcie meafiives become more ur
gent, it this moment, than ever; for without
tbein, there can b; iioarmy.
Another letter from the fame minifler
I here'vi?!; com;iHini( ate to the Convention,
the letters mil d:fpatt'.v: whtch X have re
ceiyeJ from Gsi. Dursiourier. Altirj' alarm
ing as they may appear, the Convention will
fee that the intrepidity of the French fcliiers
is not abated.
Cony of a lette" from General BuMourier,
dated at Tire!emon% Marc. s . 19.
u It is with great pain, citizen Hii'iifter,
that 1 communicate to you an account of the
check which I have received. You mud have
Teen, by. my letters of yesterday, t'.ut my 9'V
feritiments are I >ut too truly jnftitied, on. £\-
count of" the news which I have received'X,
the dangers at Nsunmy in the approach of a
corps of about id,003 men, who directed
themfelve* towards BrufTells and Louvain.
I had doubts that it would not have been iw
my power to preferv© the public good, with
out d'.{lodging, the .enemy from the camfi*it-
Nervengen. I have made, in consequence,
an attack on the left wing of the enemy ; ivw
centre diviiion made their attack on Nerven
gen, and my ieft, commanded by Miranda and
Cbampmorin, attacked the village ;
Ihe right, and centre of the army had some
fuccef ;, although the infantry was twice re
pilled, and driven iaom the village of Ner
vengen. The ei't wing proving unfortunate,
their retreat was made with confufion till be
hind Tirelemont, or perhaps a little further;
The MareOiaU de Camp Mielen was killed,
who commanded the artillery, and two gene
ral officers were wounded in the flight, and
fundrv pieces of cannon taken, amongfl which
there were three 12 pounders.
•" I was ignorant of this derangement, and
I had prepared an attack for to-morrow to
complete vi-ftory. And uneasy at not hear
ing from Miranda, and barring minimus
that he had retired, I quitted the victorious
p,trt of the field in the evening, to learn the
situation of the left w~iug, and was afioiillhed
it >t to find'one of the corps on my way to Tir
lement. I gave order to Miranda to resume
hi* pufi <m St. Margarita t»c»*
ver the retreat.
" I fend you, citizen, minister, a letter
from Vilence, who was wounded ; and who
is now on his way to Bruflells. laiti going
back to the eamp of Louvain to cover Bruf
fells and Malines. -1 cannot d.llimulate that
the evil of disorganization is at its I
fiar for the event of this retreat, in a coun
try, where we have aggravated tiie inhabi
tant-;, by pillage and the ii discipline "of tie
troops. I will do all I can to save the army,
who place in me the utifioft confidence, and I
will abide by their judgment 1 will submit
myfelf to the most severe examination, and
I will demand a court martial to judge of my
cohduft. Two happy if the facnfice of my
life can be of utility to the glorious cause of
Liberty! and I {hall fight till I die, or am con
demned by the patriots. I fear not the judg
ment of my Fellow Citizens, or the reproach
ofpofterity. You will fee that our loss hi
been confiderabje, about 2DOO men. I mufl
pass the utmod praise on the braved foldiei <
of the u»iverfe, Imt we are in -want of e«pe
rienced officers. 1 propose a fupprelTion o'
the mode of electing them. This mode give;
neither tulenrs nor confidence, and will neve
prod uce i'ubo: dination.
The ininifter lent the copy of a letter i<-oni
Genera! Dumourier to General du Val. Tie
letter is wrote from the camp of Campeachie,
dated 20th March. The following is the sub
stance :
Send me, my dear General, the corps of
troops which you promised me, to replace the
4odo cowai d*, who abandoned me, and fnatch
ecl from my hand the irtoft certain victory.
" I beat the enemy, on the 18th, all day
long, in the famou r . field of Nervinde. The
enemy left us poiTeffion of the field. When
I had learned the cowardice of my left wing,
the enemy wanted to attack my right wing,
which was commanded by Valence—the cen
tre by Egalite ; but I have rallied the left
wing. The right and centre sustained the
combat. —I have, in the pre/ence of the ene
my, made a fafe retreat to Campeachie,
where I cxpedfc to be attacked to-morrow.*' i
The Convention ordered, that the minister
of war take information, refpe&ing the cow
ards who atted badly on the day cf the 18th.
The ConimiiTaries feot to Angiers, write
from that city, that they are in pursuit of the
rebel",, who will soon be exterminated,
Our forces, fay they, are re-united every
day, andfrefti troops daily arriving trom all
quarters. We will pursue the enemy on both
iides Loire, and we will re-eftabl.fh the com
munication between Nantz and Angiers.
A company of Chalieurs from the Girar.de,
well equipped, presented themfetves to the
Convention, took the oath, and marched off
to the frontiers.
Caitain Kean Taw a itifli frigate off Ha
vre as he cams out, but on {heiving the Ame
rican flag, the frigate took no further notice
of him.
Pa.Tengers in the M riling Star : Stephen
Sayre, El'q; his lady and lon, Mr. Callow,
Monfieurs Hi bout and Marfau, and a fami
ly offteerage pafl'engeis.
From a Boston paper of May 8.
ORIGINAL CORRESPONDENCE
" You wi!! perccive by the papers how
extremely difficult it is to obtain the ti uth
refpeClinp the affaiis of the contintnt. —
That the campaign has opened bloodily,
cannot be doubted : There has been seve
ral general engagements ; I fay general,
from the great numbeis engaged, and the
killed. The firft was early in the month
the particular I have already detailed.—
The 2d was on the 16th, 1 and 18th
of March. The 2 firft days were not
ftamed with much blood, an the combin-
399
Ed forces retreated to take advantage of
the ground. On the 18th the French
gaye battle with great spirit. The com
bined forces received them with tirmnels,
and tire cont,eft for 11 hours was doubt
ful. At length vi&ory dcclated in tavor
of the Aui'tiyans. I have fcen the Atif :
triau official accounts of this action.—
1 hat of the Prince Saxe Cobouig is the
ccolelt, and melt impartial, by that you
•will fee the French only retreated to their
lirlt politio The (laughter mult have
been confideraWe on both lides. I will
not mention numbers, as I really believe
luve rightly ascertain
ed. The latter was'<pn the 2zd of Match
between the advance guard of the Auf
trianaud French armies near JLouvain.—
The accounts of it were received here on
thf 26th, and were contradicted in the
Mdrning Chronicle of the 27th, and in
several other papers. On the 29th the
accounts were renewed ; and on the 30th
it was published here by authority. So
the event may be relied on j the lola 011
cach fide is as usual varionfly reported ;
theliighe.il make the killed on both lides
amount to above 5000.
"We have much intelligence here of
riotr, plots of counter-revolutionsand in
furredtions in Fiance j many of thejii too
ridiculous to deceive even a dupe to the
famous bottle-conjurer's fuheine. I believe
.there has been some discontents at Lyons
d riling in Britany, and a few other pla
its j but tlvy excite but little apprehen.
Hon in the convention, whose intrepidity
and firmnefs encreafe according to the
dangers which funound them.
" Bufinefa here has fuffcred a derange
ment from the aimed innumerable bank
ruptcies that daily take place. The hou
fts here which have failed aie said to be
at lea!t two millions sterling. By the
London Gazette you will fee that the in
fe£lion has reached Liverpool, Bristol,
and several other places, to the irretriev
able deftruftion of many small houses.
" AsmtlTrs. Lane, Son and Fraziei,
have very considerable connexions in A
merica, I (hall submit to you the proprie
ty of publilhig the following advertise
ment, which appeared in the papers of
this day—viz. " Allperfons holding bills
or notes, drawn, accepted, or endorsed
iby-the .bouse of Lane, Son and Fraeier,
■and all persons having demands on the
said house, are requested to fend the full
particulars of such bills, notes and de
mands refpeftively, to A. and J. Wefton,
No. 31, Fennchurch street.
" Rely on my assiduity to give you cor
real information. Opinions and conjec
tures 1 fiiall be fpaiing of."
Yesterday arrived here the privateer schoon
er Citizen Gsneft—flie has captured the brig
Capt. BafTett of St. Vincents, bound to
this port.
We are informed the privateer has taken
* fcho.)ner bound to Philadelphia, from New-
Providence—-on board of which there were
two thousand dollars in specie.—Also a sloop,
making with the ship from Glasgow four pri
ces.
Sunday came into this port the ship William
of Glasgow, captured by the privateer citiz< n
Geofrft about jo days ago. She was bound to
ih© Potowmack. and is the fitft veflTci captured
bpthe Citizen Gene ft.
On Saturday morning about i o'clock this
fcity was alarmed with ihc cry of fire # which
broke out in the (hop of Mr. Morrow, gunfmnh,
in Third near Ch« fnut-Sireet, in the neighbor
hood of the two banks, and contiguous to the
office of the Secretaiy of ihc Treasury. The
wind was at N. E. and fortunately almotl calm,
but the fire raged with great violence and gain
ed considerably before the engines could be
brought to check it : about two o'clock how
ever the flames were nearly subdued.
The principal futtereis on this occasion were
Mefl". R. Mason, Morrow, Douglafs, Craig,
Shively and Hay.
The fpiiit of the citizens was never more con
spicuous than on this occasion; their a&ivity
was united, and under Providence, exerted to
great effect. — Several buildings enveloped in
fire, were in a manner snatched from the ra
ging clement.
Mr. Mason is entitled to an uncommon por
tion of (ympathy, upon tins occasion, having,
only twelve hours before, loft his eld; ft son,
Mr. Benjamin Mason, merchant of this city, by
'* iudden ind'.fpofitioii. This promifi-.g, young
man whose manners endeared him cu all hi* ac
quaintance, went from his lather's hdul'e in ap
parent good health, on Friday morning, and
was a corpfc between one and two o'clock.
fc * Affi ftions rife not out of ihc dull nor trou
bles spring from the ground."
A number ot citizens had a meeting on Sa
turday last, for the purpose of ; fiifting their fcl
!ow-c»tizens who fuffcred by the abo. e c«lami.
ty, and chofc committees in the feveial wards
to receive fubferipttons forth.* purpofr.
Lnnrlon, April 3
The committee appointed to receive fu'i
fcriptinns for the relief of the fufi'erer* bv fie
late fire are to reeet t»-m<irro\v evenivj 7
o'clock at the City-Hall
We areiffmed thji me American plmipo.
terwiarirs at the court oT MidriH, have licgocM
tc<t a It rat y with Spain rrfpuamg the ejvigj
lioa of the river Miililipp'.
cc 'vi ,vi uk rc a no.vs,
Tiit United Statei are an a?fylum to the peo
ple f>» t it ii lt of ibe gii'Le—huc.e the adoption
of the new con It i tut ion, oat] i lie org miration of
the general govermnem, the emigration* to this
country h,ivc encreaied beyond all calculation.
Ihe feeurity 10 fipei ty, property, p Hun «>d
life, enjoyed under the aufpnia of this sure tur[
happy conftr.urion, a*e ftt i k'ih emeuls vwh _ i
h;»ye operated To po*.vi-i *n!l v on Iru 4 nnfuls oi
< vcry inriuftrious enM^MUf—ihis >-
cunty is ar ihc preHiu rootntnl mj<i\\d- tu tut
htgh< ft pe»Ject ; on, and we irulfr wiii continue c»
long a* the 41 fun (htnc«, o» i!ie liv_tj> ;iiu."
The.'rfforts tnade bv the rclllef* Cons o f ami a-
lion and violrticr, 10 Tow the feeds of discord —
to weaken the peneral confidence in tht f.ee:y
ele&ed offic its of ihe people—nav, lo spirts u.r
individuals and aflTociated bodies, 10 ailume the
powers of the executive, and to exerciJe a Num
mary vengeance on particular pcrfons, whom
malice or ptivatc pique may ftigilialtae wil \
oppi6hi ious epithets, must : eet the exe'irai .oo
of every friend to the inteicfh ana honor ot the
Union.
1 here are ppr r ons among us who aflume Phe
appellations of Patriots and Kcpublican*, and
yet are, conifantly pubhfhing the molt abusive
flandcrs againit men in otiict, who hold their
appointments on the mod honorable tenure, the
unsolicited (uftragesof a majority of their fellow
citizens. Sorely such republicanism can hardly
be said to he Jkin-deep.
A murder wa« commuted the 29th ulr. in
Beiklcy county, Virginia, on a poor labouring
man by the name of Johnfton, the perpetrator*
were a James Conoway, and ■ • - M'Cflbe,
the lattei ihot {ohftiton with a pittol, put iuio
his hands by Connown 1 , who is commuted to
gaol, M'Cabe made his efespe.
The commencement of the Pup'ls belonging
to the Young Ladies' Academy of Phi lad Iphia,
will be held ,at ten oVlock Jn the forenoon on
this day, the inftau;, at the M.modiit
Chuich in FouuU Sireef.
Married, on Timrfday evening'l.iff, by the
right, reverend bHhop White, L;rtib<rt Cad,
wrlla<ler, Efij; to Mils Mary M'Call, daujh.'
ter ot Archibald M'CalJ, ;norchant of
this city.'
SNIP NEWS.
FORTn/,PHH.AI>IU.I , I!IA.
Ship l'avorite, Brown, H. de-Grace and Isle
J f of Wight
Cleopatra,
Brig Milnton.
Kiin,
Parke-,
Georgia Packet, Hurrows, Ghafteftqw
Hope,
Sloop New-Yor]
Sally,
Nancy,
Rifinit Sun,
AI'CHIIoih, N«w*Vo;k
Packet, Bailey, ditto
Inghalli, St. Kitts
Wlwaton, Surinam
Nichols, New-Yt»fk
irttlUß ut oiOCKS.
6 per Cer.ts, ' "'2/8
3 per Cents, 9/
Deterred, gjß
Fuil ftiares Bank 11. S. par
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By Mathew Carey,
No. 118, Markei-Stieet.
Embellihid with a. M A P of the prtfent
SEAT OF WAR,
No. I,
O F A N E W
SYSTEM OF MODERN
GEOGRAPHY:
OR, A
GEOGRAPHICAL, HISTORICAL. AND
COMMERCIAL GRAMMAR ;
And Present State of the Several
KINGDOMS OK THE WORLD.
CONTAINING
I. The figures, motions, and distances of the
planets, according to the Newtonian system
and the tateft observations.
11. A general view of the earth cor.si J ered as a
planet ; with several ufeful gcogiaph'cal de
finitions and problems.
111. The grand divihons of the globe into land
and water, continents and lflands.
IV. The fuuation and extent of empires, king
doms, dates, provinces, and colonics.
V. Their climates, air, foil, vegetable produc
tions, metals, minerals, natural curtofnies,
seas, rivers, bays, capes, promontories, and
lakes.
VI. The birds and beasts peculiar to each coun
try.
VII. Obfetvations on the changes that have
been any where observed upon *he fare of
nature fitice the moil early periods of history.
VIII. The history and origin of nations ; thcyir
forms of government, religion, laws, revenues,
taxes, naval and military fhength.
IX. The genius, manners, culioms, and habiis
of the people.
X. Their language, learning, arts, fcicnccs,
manufactures, and commerce.
XI. The chief cities., itrufturcs, ruins, and ar
tificial curioficies.
XII. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and dif
tanccs of principal pteces trom Pniladelphia.
TO ARE ADD KD
I.AG toe r a phi c a l Index, with the Name?,
and places alphabetically anange<J.
11. A Tab le of the Coins of all Nations, and
their V*iue in Eno wish MoNIY.
111. A Chronological T/ill of remark
able Evema, from tile Creation to the picfent
Time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, ?fq.
Tiie Astronomical Part by
CUJON. F. R. S.
To which have been aided.
The late Ducovkfis of D-. Her&chei, and
other eminent Astkonomirj,
THE H H ST AMERICAN lUlTil>N, CORRECT
IJ),iXP?OVF. D,ANf» CRF.ATI Y BN LARGS
(The t'.rms, &c. oj publication, in our next. J
Havre-He-Grace.
St. Vincents •LONDON.
state PAPER.
Declaration of the Princ? «f O-anjje, to
the AfiemWy of their High Migbtineffcfc
H,h an J ATgilj l*rk ■'
THf. lta Cis r.ioll onjuitly attacked; th- - r "
rUftryof thrfl.-iKwlity is invaded,ami the arm,
ol ih. em my iMve ui-erpe4tedly met with, a .uc
cels which migiit extend to the cities .luvir.g
voices in the state, and the conlequences ot
which niit'Ut be incalculable.
Such. High and Mighty LorJi, are the dan
gcrawhi.h either hatraf" us already, ° r "
still inenatc u». It i» not my with to difkmble
tl.em : I do not even wiih to flatter myfell that
the bile. «e have already fuftai-ed will be the
last. It is not I'orpr.fing that th s Republic ihould
exp.neucc . r at checks at the
of a war; but in the midst of these disasters me
ricvates hcrfek, as if her losses awaken her ac
li/iry, (upport her courage, and multiply h.r
strength.
As little as the dangers of the state fliculd be
diff-mblei, so little ought her advantages and
succours to be mifunderllood. The situation ot
the country, interfered by rivers, canals, and
holds out advantages capable of dilputing
with thi enemy even were their successes (hit
more conGderable. The fidelity of th<4 citizens
their love for their country, js equally efficaci
ous in a republican state. The troops of the
republic are lull of courage, and burn with a
z:.'al to try their strength in the defence of thsir
altars and ft re Tides. The seamen are animated
by the very f;iritthat has never failed so honor
ably to diftinguiih the Dutch on an element
which is natural t»them, and on which they
have lb often coil founded the pride of their ene
mies, I ou.fht finally to assure myfelf, that not
pnly the allies of the state, but alio the formida
ble powers, which equally with the republic,
have but ene interest and one common triemy,
will unite their efforts to ours to rep-1 from the
frontieis of this republic violence ai d injufti-e,
But high and mighty lords, I found my confi
dence more especially in the sovereign arbiter of
the world; who, out of nothing, has caused
this country to attain its present strength, and
who haspreferved it by miracle, and supported
the arm of my courageous predeceflors. 1 his
God is eternal. His all-puissance, his sagacity are
equally so, and he is still desirous of supporting
those who repose their trust in him
Upon these foundations it is th it I declare, in
the face of the whole universe, that far from be
ing discouraged, I will watch till my last mo
ment in the defence of the state ; and that, not
withstanding a part of my poilefTions and do
mains is already occupied by the enemy, what.
Qontinues to be mine, as well my blood and
my life, is still for the service of the state.
Let the nation rouse itfelf—h*t it lorm an
union with me against an enemy desirous of
seizing on its liberty, its property and its inde
pendence. I trust to be unceadngly found in
the career of honor and the love of my country,
and since I neither seek nor know no other
grandeur than that of the country, I shall esteem
myfelf happy, provided Heaven shall deign to
direct and bless my efforts to that end.
Done at the Hague, Feb. 28,1793-
(Signed) G. PRINCE of ORANGE
District y/ Pennsylvania, to wit.
n IT REMEMBERED, That on
(Seal. \ thirteenth day of March, in
J the ieventeenth year of the Indepen
s dchce of the United States of America,
Thomas Dorson, of the said Diftritl, h.«tu de
pofitcd in this Office, the Title of a Book, the
Rignt whereof he claims as Prqpiietor", in the
words following, to wit.
41 An Enquiryhow Jar the Punipiment of Death
il is necejjut v in Pennjylvama. With Notes and
44 Jilujirations. My William Bradford, tfq.
44 To which is added, an Account of the Gaot and
4 * Penitentiary Houje of Philadelplua y and of the
(t interior plana verncnt thereof. By Caleb
44 Lowms. of Philadelphia. -If we enquire
44 into the Causes 6f ail human Corruptions, we
44 fli all find that they proceed from the Impunity
44 of Crimes, and not from the Moderation of Pu-
44 nifkmehti.'' M ont esq.
In conformity to the A£t of the Congrcfs of
the United States, intituled, 44 An A6l for the
Encouragement of Learning, bv securing the
Copies of M.ips, Chans and Books, to the Au
thors and Proprietors of such Copies, during the
Times therein mentioned."
SAMtJKt. CALDWEt'Lf
Clerk ot the DHlritl of £ciiu.fylv'af|^.
£T The above work is fcld in Charltfirn b\
William Prior: young : RiJ/maudy by Archibald
Cut rig : b\ James Rice,: N.w-York,
by Tnomas Alien : Bofidfi, by David Weft.
TO BE SOLD,
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE HU\ r FISQ BKLED.
HE was imported (hmii n Novem
ber, (evcnicf. hundred and eighty-fix,
is now if 11 years old ; he is a i.righi bay, with a
blaze,fit 1 ecn haridsone inch ;s wellfovni'd.
has a gteai cual ot bone and itr- li'oth, and his
a£lion equal to an\ horie. His colts are well
approvc-d ' f in the d ffcrejit paits of the State
where he has stood, of which any piYion inclined
10 piirchilc can inioirn themfelvos. Enquue
of the Printer.
February 18, * 793.
PLANS
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sold by the £00k
DOBSON, CAREY, YOt/NG, & 1 «C r KSHANK.
8-" aT Tkt firut »f this 1.-tiztHcir Vhrc: Dollars
psr an»KKP-tlne hij 10 it paid at the lunf ojfui
briting.
CIRCULAR LETTER,
«r ihi
HISTORICAL SOCIETY,
R;fo3j»tl}A*Uff§*4 lotvery Gt*tTftu* of Science
fV and IJitnds cf Afterka.
Sr k ,
\ SOCIETY h«s lately bten iriftituted in this
f\ itXl*?. e»»ird the Historical .Wrfft ;
•.hr piofttfVd defi ji of wnich is, to collett, pre
frrvc and c'>mmuincatc, material* for a complete
y <>f litis country, and accounts ot all valu
able efforts of human ingMiui y aiid tnduft'y,
Ifom the beginning ol us ft'tl 'itjent. In pnr-
Imnc of this p! ii), thev have a ir idy amaiF- <i a
larof quamny of bo »k«, pamphlets and manu
scripts ; and aic ih'l m icaich of more : A cata
logue ol wI n.h v» iu.i>e printed tor, the informa
tion ot ihe p>n>nr.
1 Hry have alfn encou'a/'d i!)e publication o(
a in- nthlv pamphlet, in v mch is given the ixfult
of their inquiries, into the natural, poluicir aid
rcclrfufth al hi (lory of, this country. It is re
quelted that you w«>nld contribute to it-- value
and importance, by mention to the articles an
nexed. Tie Society beg leave to depend on
vour ah to these hevds ot inquiry,
when leifare and opportunity will permit.
Your letters a id re IT; d, trre of exp- nfe, to the
i fui> crib'ei, will (>c rrceived. and duly
lioiicVri in the Soei tv's publications; and you
| will have the frittstafction of contributing to the
general ftoek, ol knowledge, with which they
i hooe to entertain the public.
Iu the najuo, by ordi rof thr Society,
JEREMY BELKNAP,
Corresponding Sccreiaiy,
Boflortjin Mafatkvfeth % Nov. 1,1791.
Articles on -which the Society requefl
i#formation.
1. The time when your town or city was in
coiporated; l's Indian name; when the {ele
ment began; whether it was inter 1 upied, and
hv wh;»t means; to what Colony 01 Coumy it
was jß'iftihhcxeu •; and if theie have been any
alterations, what thC\ are. and when made.
2. The exploits, labours and fuftering* ot the
inhabitants in war; particular account J qf dc
va flat ions, deaths, captivities and rcdempt-ons.
3. Divisions of y.Qur town or c ty in parifhcs
and precinffs, 01 the erettion of new towns
wiih n the former limits.
4. Time of gatheiing'churches of every de
num nation ; names ol the fevcral Ministers ;
th< ttmesof their fettle rifrnt, removal and death ;
and their age at the time of their death.
5. Biographical anecdotes of persons in vonr
tovrn, or within your knowledge, who ha\e
been remarkable for ingenuity, enterp'ife, lite
rature, or any other valuable accomplishment ;
an account «»! theit literary produ&icns, and if
polfihie, copies ot ihcm.
6. Topographical description of your town
or county, and its vicinity; mountains, rivers,
ponds, animals,-vegetable productions ; re
markable lalls, caverns, minerals, foflils,
pigments, medicinal and poisonous fubilances,
their uf-s and antidotes.
7. The tortner and piefent ffate of cultiva
tion, and your thoughts on farther improve
ments, either in rcfpc& to agriculture, roads or
caw ils.
8. Monuments snd relicks o 1 the ancicnt' In
dians ; numbefr and present ifate of any remain
ing Indians among you.
g. Singular inH.Vnces ps longevity and fecun
dity from the fit It fettle mcnt to the present time.
10. Observations on the weather, diseases,
and the influence of the climate, or of particular
situations, employments and aliments, especi
ally Ih< effe&of spirituous liquors on the human
constitution.
ii. Accu'atc bills of mortality, fpecifying
■gcb and cafualtics, ihe proportion of births and
deaths, and the increase or decicafe of popula
tion.
12. Accounts of manuf<i£turfs and fifherics,
and thoughts on the farther improvement of
them.
13. Modes of education, private or public;
what encouragement is g'veii to schools and
colleges, ;<nd what is done to advance literature:
whether vou have a social library, What is the
number of books, and of what value.
14. What remarkable events have befallen
your (late, county, town, or particular families
or cerfons. at any time.
P. S. The Corresponding Members of this
Society are requeued to trarifmit to the Coirc
fpond-ng Secretary, any htdorical information
of which th v may be pofieircd, refpffting any
pait of the American Continent and I Hands, to
gether with printed a£ls and journals of Aflem
bltesaud Conventions, whether civil or ecclesi
astical. And the Society will gratefully receive
from them a.:d from all other peifons whatever,
any books, pamphlets, manuscripts, maps or
plans which rnaybeufiful in forming an histori
cal (oik£lion —-and any natural or artificial j.ro
duaiofis which may enlarge the Museum.
The Library and Museum are depofucd in an
apartir.ei tof Faneuil Hail. Anv'herfon desirous
of making a search among ihe books or manit
f ripts, many have aecefs to them under such re
gulations, as mav be known by applying to any
one of the members.
Post-Roa d
TO THE GENESEE COUNTRY.
r T , HE public art hereby informed, that the
-L Po(t-R.oad from Philadelphia to leading,
is continued to Sunbtny and Norihumbci Und ;
thence up the Weft Branch of the .Sulquehanii.il)
as far a; Licoirfing; thence to tbe Painted Pofl
(111 New-Yoik Uact, near Ihe loi lis ot the Tiny a)
thence 10 Bath (a town laid 0111 on the Cohocfon
Branch of the Tioea) tluiice to Williamfburg,
at the forks o! Geneice River.
Letter*.for. tins new toute wiH be/sens from
the Poft-Offtce every WeCnefday
morning, at eight oViock,,with the mofil lor
Reading.
A weekly if>ai4 will alto be carried from
Bcuiiehcm to re, in Ihe county of
Luzerne.
O ine/ k P• ijl.Ojfii. e. A:: 1,7 6. 179].
400
F) THOMAS JOHNSON, DAVID
STI'ART.&iDAMIEL CARROLL,
Esquiret r
CoMMi«sif>M«s appointed by Govrr.irtni m
P, t .p,rr tbr Public BuildiifH, &c. wuhu. thr
City of ir»flhgto*, lor the rcccpuon ol Coo-
A LOTTERY
TOR THE IMPROVLMLN i OF THE
Federal C ity.
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, arc 350,000 dollars,
LIST OF PRIZES, viz
1 Supci b Hotel, wi'h. baths,}
out lioufc.s, &r.&c.toCoit
1 Cafo f/Jzf
1 ditto
1 ditto
1 ditto
s ditto
10 di!to
so ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
£00 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
16,737 Prizes
Blanks
50,000
By this fchcme at teajl the amount of the tick
ets wi'.l return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City * ill gain its object thereby,
in a magnificent building designed both for pub
lic and piivate convenience.
Although Come expence must recefTarily at
tend the ronduftincr of the lottery, (which ex
•pence will be taken from the principal prize; the
Commiflioucrs having agreed to present in re
turn a-fuffieient quantity of excellent free-ftone,
together with the heft adapted lo;s lor the hotel
and for the out-houfes, the value of the lottery
entire may be fairly rated at fo/jL. thing wore than
par :In this important inftaucc 11 will be lound,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Puhhc in tins 01
perhaps in any other country. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will he delivered to the
fortunate possessor of the ticket drawn aagainft
its number. —All the other prizes will he paid,
without one month after the d/awing- t by
the City Treasurer at Washington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for the convcniency of the fortunate ad ventui evs.
The drawing will commence on .Monday the
9th of Septeinbei next, at the City of Welling
ton.
Tickets mav be had of Col. Wm. Dickens, City
Treasurer of Wafhiogton ; Tha er & Bartkt, of
CharltfVon, South-Carolina ; Gideon Denj'on, Sa
vannah ; Messrs. James IVeJI & Co. Bakimoie;
Mr. Feter Oilman, Boston; and at such other
places as will be hereafter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the bc\\ Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if presented
on or before the \oth of April next-, and a pre
ference will he given to the Artist for a Con
tra&, provided he be duly qualified to
com pleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be ere&ed, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by 200 fert, with a
back avenue to the stables', &c. Se£tions and
estimates of the expense will *be cxpefted
with the elevations, &c. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars mutt he regarded by the Architect as the
utmost limit in the expense intended tor this,
par pole. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the aftans of the City.
March 6, *703
City of Wafliington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lois in this City will be of
fered'"tor fair at au&io'h, by the Commif
fiooers, on the 1 7th day of September next —
One fourth part of the purchase money is 10 be
paid down, the residue at three equal annua) pay
ments with yearly intercllon the whole princi
pal unpaid. i
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Cem'Ys.
Extract of an A»SI of the General A (Terribly of
Maryland, coneerning the: Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Wafhin'gvon.
" B<* it enabled, That any foreigner may by
dzed or U'ifl, hereafter to be wade. take and hold lands
wit hi n that part of the jaid Territory which lies with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen of th?s State ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by turn, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
of thi) State : Provided, That no foreigner fltall,
in virtue hereof, be entitled to anyfutther or other
privilege of. a citizen
}•«». K), :
Stock Brokers Office,
N<». 16, Wall-llreet, New-York.
THE Sub scribes intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMlSSlON,begsleave to of
fer his services to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may plcafe
to favor him with th« ir bufinefx, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the uttnoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will be ft rift! y
attended to.
Just p.ublijhed.
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone Honfe t A r o. 41, South Stcond-Strect,
A C A S E,
Decided in the Supreme Court of the United
Statks, in which is dTcuJTed the Qneition,
WHETHER A STATS IS LIABLE TO BE
SUED BY A PIUVATE CITIZEN OF
ANOTHER STATE!
I f ice Half a Dollar
50,000
*5.000
20,000
15.000
10,000
\O,OQO
5,000 arc
1,000
s°°
100
5°
2 .5
20
10
I
10,000
10,000
10.000
10,000
: 0,000
20, COO
150,000
Dollars 350,000
I BLFFCKER
H!Jhi Kg Uf.ful fa .ui 'J* 4*
W''",? ;Ai '" >,: '" s '"' h ' «>t
ir'.-.. rm-M*. i, ~. ~ r " :
t'c r> p '■(!!;. ' ,v'i ' w:,!t, h VuZ" , " ,ta
,ai - 4 •'»!" 11 - 1 •OH i t •,. •„!
Iz \ t.f ncorpvi a-1 »n, rrn' (; U
and tuUv authofti, i. i* u i. . 1 1
ordinance thev n . ■ ii,„,k p, ' ?
pimflnal jwv.rrnt „! U.r :
and Dittflnrs nf iki'Sn, < . . „
(hall w( R l.t:io p>y ih f ""
I"."' «W.r -rfpifii., '! '
Ih-cartiier <ot the t'niMri S »tr< u. • I ok"" "
oMhc K,„k N w -York ,
Bank o! .he Untied States, p hlU: , ,
John Bryarrf, E(q. in the r„ v of N ' ' '
jr
the thirteenth clay nl Apiil n-»i ■ Thai
in that qafe, a11;,,,.1 rverv lh»,« o, 1h,,« ot I,,'"'
I person or perlom (o nefilefling; ~ r|i '
| menis at alwrfoid, and the mnnirtt-.v
I vioufl, v»id> ft»*H be forfeited, j),d i r ,„ vri ,| '*
after veiled ir. .he (aid D rett,,,.,
crliors, lor the common benefit ol d.e c
I cictv.
Sec_. 2. Audit it further oriainti I,
a/orcjetd, Ihat il any fublcijber, or h» afii..„
lhall ii<- R lcft 10 pay the thud pavmun „t hi', |j
or iheir refpcOlve fuhlcriptioiis, to rthf »•,(,
the lawful inteitft anting theiron, on or b,| m
the thirteenth day of May next. Tnat tlicai.J
in that cafe all and every (hare or lhare, [„ t(l
perton or pe-ions so ntgl.ain ß 10 make lork
payments as atocelaid, and the monies b\ th (tn
previously paid, (hall be forfeited, and inm-tr
thereafter vetted in the said Ducfors t «4 ib, :r
fwcecHus, lor the common b(n. litot the hid
Sociity.
Sec. 3. A> dbe ir further ordained by the wtfarih
ajorcfuid, Thai it any lubl'rribei, or h-s affifi,,,
ihall ge"lt& co pay the fourth paymentuf h:s
her, or their rc('|)e6live fubfcri piions.on or WW
the thnre. rmth of July next, that then and in
that cafe, all and eveiy (hare 01 (harts ol f ue h
person or pe.fons, so neglecting to make fu?h
payments as ifoiefaid, and the monies by ihnn
pteviouflv paid, 111 all he forfeited, and louver
thereat re r veiled in the said Directors, and rhrir
fuccelTors, foi the rotmnon henefij of (he U d
Soc <et v. NIC HOLA SLO VV, Gove, no:.
Pafjed at A szv-Ark. ?oth Fcbrusry, 1 793.
(Coui.tcihgned) 1 LISHA BOUDINOT,
Secretary pro tempore.
BE IT KNOWN, that the proportion ot ipe
cie Which "may' be oaid on the refpeQive pa\.
of every original thare, by flick Stock
holders as-prefer 'paying a motely of (aid (bans
tq specie, in lieu of deterred debt, is as follows:
Dols. its.
On rhe 13th of April, 1793, with in
tereU from Lgih July, 1792, 7 63
On the 13th of Mav, 1793, with in
tercft from 13th January, 1 793» 1 86
On the 13th of Julv, 1793, 8 otj
Stockholder in the iatd Socicty are hereby
notified, that I, the fubferibcr, am duly autho
rized to make the icquifile indorsements ti{>ca
the certificates of (hares which they may rtfpei
tively hold, and that books of transfer areopa
ed at my office, in Front-ftrtet, New-York.
NICHOLAS I t
jawtigM.
February 21, 1793.
Vinall's Arithmetic.
THE Second Edition of this work, with im
provements, will fpecdily be put to prffc.
The rapid Tale ot the firft edition*, grraily be
yond the author's moll f.mguine expc&atioiis,
encourages him to print a second edition. He
intends to have it printed upon much belter pa
per than the former, and with a new type.
Those Booksellers who wish to take a num
ber of copies in fheeis, are re quelled to apply to
the author for particulars.
* 1000 Copies.
At a meeting of the School Committ i
February sth, 1793*
Tb.e Committee, appointed 10 examine u Thi
Preceptor's Afliftam, or Student's Guide,"being
a fyilematical treatise of Arithmetic, by John
Vi n all, teacher of the Mathematics & Win
ing, in Bolton, reported, that they have attended
hat lervvce, and «»re of opinion, that the work
s executed with judgment, and is as well ealcu
ated forthcufe oi schools, counting houfrs, and
»rivate families, as any of the fame compjli
hat has hitherto been offered to the public.
Voted, That the above repoit be acceptcd,
nd that Mr. Vi na ll be furniflied with a cop)
u s it, whenever he fhatl desire it.
CopV of the Records. Attrft,
CHARLES BULFINCH, Sec'ry.
The following character of the above work
s given in Ihe Review of the MaJjachufetU M
'./V, lot j'n. r"
JdZl'lCy v - -793 •
u This is a very ufeful work, and is no .1
proof of the judgment and irvduUryof the author.
The rules are laid down with propriety, an
the examples annexed are fufficicnt tor their u
luftration. One part of the work defcrves p
ticuUr commendation. We mean that win
the author Mercantile Arithin'M'
occupies a confidcrablc portion ot his boo ,
not more than its impoitance will-Julufy.
would rccommcnd to the young Arithmetic,
to pay a particular attention 10 this ra
He will find its principles well explained A
Oiould he make himfelf master of them, e
always have rcafon to acknowledge his 0
tion to the judicious and laborious author,
cannot but congratulate the rising ginerat
account of the many ufeful productions *
have lately appeared ; and in which 1 en
provement has been principally con u •
Among those produ&ions we mutt p a
trcatife of Arithmetic. Wc Ihould b.: «
in iufttce to the author, (hould we no
hd&e thai his work is in reality tat w T
title imports—The Pk eceptor s . ssis
01 Studen r's Gu 1 o L."
BoJlun, Ftb. 13.
\
4
I. C. A. A. A S.