M
BflN ■
*N A FIONA LPA P EH, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS ANP SATURDAYS BV JQHW FENA'O, So. nrrH-STRE-f '
- -
[No. 155 of Vol. IV.]
FOR TJHF GAZHTTE.
HELVIDIUS— No. IV.
THE last papers conjoleated the view pro
posed to be taken of the &Y£\iments in
support of the new and aspiring doctrine,
which ascribes to the executive the preroga
tive of judging aiid deciding whether there
be caules of war or not, in the obligatipfH of
treaties; notwithftand'ng the expi-eis provi.
lion in the constitution, by which the legiflu
tui*e is made the organ of the national will,
on questions whether there be or be not a
caiiie for declaring war. If the answer to
th*le arguments has imparted the convi&ion
which dictated it, the leader will have pro
nounced, that they are generally fuperficialj
abounding in contradictions, never in the .least
degree conclufrve to the mafn point, and hot
conclusive against writer
himfelf: whilfl: the doctrine—-that The'powers
of treaty and war, are in their nature exe
cutive powers—which forms the basis of those
arguments, is as indefenfible and as danger
ous, as the particular do&rine to which they
are applied.
But it i&noA to be fotjLPtten that these doc,
trines, though ever so clearly disproved, or
ever lo weakly defended, remain before the
""public a ft: iking monument of the principles
and views which are entertained and propa?
gated in the community.
It is also to be remembered, that however
the consequences flowing from such premises.
may be riilavowed at this time or by this in
dividual, we are t6 regard it as morally cer
tain, chat in proportion as the do&rincs make
their way into the creed of the government,
and the acquiescence of the public,every pow
er that can be deduced from them, will be de
duced and exercised sooner or later by tkofe
who may have an interest in so doing. The
•character of human nature giver this falufary
warning to every sober and refie&ing mind.
And the history of government, in all its
forms and in every period of time, ratifies the
danger. A people therefore, who are so hap
py as to poiTefs the rneftimable bleflTng of a
free and defined conilitution, cannot lie too
watchful against the introduction, nor too cri
tical in tracing the consequences, of new
principles and new conitru*tions, that may re
move t >Ht la lid nrtrrks of f.
Should the prerogative which has, been exa
mined, be allowed in its molt limited sense, to?
usurp the public countenance, the interval
would probably be very {hort, before it would
be heard from some quarter or other, that the
prerogative either amounts to nothing, or
means a right to judge and conclude that the
obligations of treaty impose war, as well as
that they permit peace. That it is fair rea
soning, to fay, that if the prerogative exists
at all, an operative rather than ail inert charac
ter ought to be given to it.
lii support of this conclusion, there would
be enough to echo, 44 tl)at the prerogative in
this adtivs sense, is conoe<sted with the execu
tive in various capacities—as the organ of
intercourse between the nation and foreign
nations—as the interpreter of national trea
ties" (a violation of which may be a cause of
■war) uas that power which js charged with
the execution of the laws of which treaties
make a part—as that power, which is charg
ed with the command and application of the public
Jorcc
With additional force, it might he laid, that
the executive is as much the executor ai the
i»t:rpreter of treaties: that if by virtue of
theJirJi chara&er it is to judge of the obliga
. tions of treaties, it is by virtue of the fecond>
equally authorised to carry tho.'e obligations
into, ejfecl. Sliould there occur for example, a
* a J~u> Jcderis x claiming a military co-operation
©t the United States, and a military for.ee
(hould happen to be under the command of
executive, it must have the fame right,
as executw of public treaties tr> employ the public
£»' ce, as it has in quality of interpreter of pub.
he treaties to decide whether it ought to be cm.
ployed.
The cafe of a treaty of peace would be an
auxiliary to comments of this fort. I ; t is a
■condition annexed to every treaty that an
anfra&ion even of an important article, on
°ne fide extinguishes the obligations on the
other: and the immediate consequence of a
dissolution of a treaty of peace is a restora
tion of a (tare of war. If the executive is "to
decide on the obligation of the nation with
regard to foreign rations"—- 4i to p von ounce
the txijling condition (in the sense annexed by
tlie writci} of the nation with regard to
them ; and to admonilh the citizens of their
'obligations and duties as founded upon that
condition of things"—" to judge what are the
reciprocal rioht* and obligations of the United
-States, and of ali and each of the powers at
Tvar •' —add, that if the executive moreover
Jfc)fTei7es all powers relating to war vctJlr 'tQly
within the power to dcciarc mar, which any pu
p*l of political casuistry, could diftinguifti
from, a raero xcUiffe into a war, that hedbttn
*tcbined r With this {lore of materials and the
example j*iven of the use to be made of them,
"would it be difficult to fabricate a power in
the executive ;o phmjre the nation into war,
Saturday, September 14, 1795.
wherever .1 treaty of peace might happen to
be infringed ?
But if any tl flicnlty fliouTfl a,rife, there is
another mode charked put by which the end
might clearly he brought about, even without
the violation o>f the treaty of peace ; especi
ally if t,he other party should* happep to change
its governmeju at the crisis. The executive,
in that cale, could ftfpcnd the treaty of peace
by rrfufnig to receive an aribajj'idu r si oni the >iitr
government, and the State of war civ?+#> \f
courfc.
This is a fampleof the ijfe to which the
extraordinary publication we are reviewini,
might be turned. Some of the inferences
could not be repelled at all. And the teaft
regulav of them must go Imoothly down with
those, who h:d fXvallowed the gwfs sophistry
~ which wrapped up t-he original dole.
view t!>at Gan be taken of this
fubjeft, adin->n.iflies the public, of the i.eccf
fity of a rigid adherence to the tfinple, tlie re
ceived and the fundamental dodtrini? of the
confti tat ion, that the power to declare war
including the power of judging of rhe icauffes
of war isjuliy a-nd xxcfufneh vested in the le
giflatufe : tbar the. pjcet utive has no right, in
any cafe to decide the q.ieftion, whether there
is or is not cause for declaring war : that the
right of informing 'ConfrreT';,
whenever such a q\reflion seems to call for a
decision, is all the /ightwhich the corftitution
has deemed requisite or proper • and that for
such more than for any other contingency,
this right was fpecialiy <>;iven to the execu
tive.
In no part of the eotiflifusion is more wis
dom to be found than in the clause which con
hdqs the que ft i«n of war or peace to the le
giflatuie, and pot to the executive depart
ment. Beside the objection to such, a fixture
of heterogeneous powers : the trust and the
temptation would t e too great for any one
man : not such as nature may offer as the
prodigy of many centuries, but such as may
be expe&ed jn the ordinary fiicc</fions of ma
gi ftracy, \V#r is in fact the true uurfe of
executive ag: audizement. In war a plfyifTcal
force is to'be created, and it is the executive
will which is to d'we-ft it. In war the public
treasures. are to be unlocked, and it is the ex
ecutive-band whic':. i.s to difptijfe them. . In
war the honors and .emoluments of office are
to be multiplied ; and it is the executive pa
tronage under which they are to be enjoyed.
It is in war, finally, that laurels are to be*ga|
theied, and it is the executive brow they
to enxircle. The flji ongbfl: paflions, and mcft
dangerous weaknefTes of the human breast ;
avarice, vanity, the honorable or
venial love of lame, aie all in confpiracy'a
gainft the desire and duty of peace.
Hence it has grown into an axiom that the
executive is the department of power most
diftinguifhed'by its propensity to war : hence
it is the p raft ice of all dates, in proportion
as they aie free, to disarm this propertfity of
its influence.
As the bed p r aise then that can be pronoun
ced on an executive magiftrr.tr, is, that he
is the friend of* peace ; a praise that fifes in
its value, as there may be .» known capacity
to (hine in war: so it mull be one of the molt
sacred duties of a free people, to mark the
firlt omen in the society, of principles that
may ftimnlate the hopes of other magistrates
of another propensity, to intrude into qi:ef
tions on which its gratification depends. If
a free people lie a wife people alio, they will
not forget that the danger of surprise can
never be so great, as when the advocates for
the prerogative of war, can iheatlie it in a
symbol of peace.
The constitution has manifefted a fmiilar
prudence in refufing to the executive the Jole
power of making peace, The trust in this
instance also, would be too great for the wis
dom, and the temptations too ftroug.fnr the
virtue, of a fugle citizen. The principal
real'ons on which the constitution proceeded
in its regulation ot the power of treaties, in
cluding treaties of peace, are so aptly fur
nidled by the work alrecdy quoted more than
once, that I fliall borrow another comment
from that source.
"However proper or fafe it may be in a
; ovenuncnt where the executive magistrate
s an hereditary monarch to commit to h;m
tie entire power of making treaties, it wouM
>e utterly unfafe and improper to entrust that
lower to an elective magistrate of four years
Juration. It has been remarked upon ano
ther occasion, and the remark is ququeftinna
biv jufV, that an hereditary monarch, though
of'ei the onprefTor of his people, has person
ally too much at stake in the government to
be in aov material danger of being corniced
bv foreign powers. But that a man raised
frora the Ration of a private citizen to the rank
us chief magistrate, pol&tl'ed of but a mode
rate or slender fnitune, »nd looking forward
to a period not very remote, when he may
probably be obliged to return to the Hation
from which he was taken, might ftmetimes
be under temptations ta faerjficr hi* duty to
his interest, which it would require fnperla
tive virtue ro,wi,ihftand. Anavariciocs man
yiiglit be tcmyted lo betray ite intercuts ol
537
*}•>'.J t
the state to the acquisition of wealth. An
ambitious man might piake his own aggran
dizement, by the aid of* a foreign potver, the
price of his treachery to bis roKffitYip fit's.—
I he hiUorv of human condnft doe* not war
rant that exalted opinion of human virtue,
which would make it wife in a nation, to com
mit interests of-, fq delicate and ;\io,i?!tiitous a
kind as those which concern its mtcrcourfe with
the reft of the wo»M, to the fi',c difpoial of a
magtftrate, created and circnmftanced, as
would be a PrefuJent of the United States."
I Hull conclude this paper and this branch
of the (uhjeft, with two reflexions, which na
turally arise from this view of the Conftitn
tiojj.
The firft is, that as the pcrfonal interest of
t an hereditary monarch in the government, is
the only security against the temptation ihci
! dent: to a commitment of the delicate and
\ momentous interests of the nation which con
| cerri itr intercom f w.th the reft of the world,
to the disposal ofafmgle ma gift rate, it is a
plain consequence, that every addition that
may he made 10 the ycwV,agenpy arid influence
of'the Executive, in the iutercouefe of the «a
tf#n with foreign nations, is an increase of
the dangerous temptation to wh'ch an dcft 'tve
avc temporary magistrate is expoi'ed ; and an
argument andadvance towards the security af
forded by the per Tonal interefiis of'dnhereditary
magistrate.
Secondljv As the confiltution has not per
mitted the Executive finkfi to conclude ar
judge that peace oug'it to be made, it
be interred from that circuirftancfr alone,
that it never meant to-»iveit jtrrg/y,
to judge and co.nckufe' that war ought not to
be made. The trull would be precifcly iin.i
lar and equivalent in the two cases. The
right to fay that wir nfcght riot to go on,
would be no greater than the right to fay that
war ought to begin. Every danger of
error or corruption, incident to Juch a prerd
gative in one cafe* is incident to it in .the
other. If the Constitution therefore has
deemed it unfafe or improper in the one cafe,
it must be deemed equally so in the other
cafe. ' HELVIDIUS.
- * United States.
EROCEJETHNGS xrMivetothr. PRESIDENT'S
yHOCLAMA.TI.9N oj NEUTRALITY.
AT a meeting of the inhabitants
of the town of Duxbury, on
Monday the 19th inft. a letter con
taining the doings of the merchants
and others concerned in trade, re
fidingin the town of Boston, was
read, and also the Proclamation of
the President of the Uniied States,
of the 22d of April lall ; and upon
cbnfidering the fame it was gnani
m oufly
Voted, That the said Proclama
tion of the President appears to us
founded in wisdom, jullice, and good
policy ; and calculated to promote
the peace, inteieft, and happineU
of oiir country.
Voted, That we will exert onr
felves to expose to public view, and
bring to legal punishment, all those
who may pursue nical'ures calcula
ted to diflurb the public tranquili
ty, or contravene those impartial
principles of neutrality and good
faith, towards the European na
tions at war, which it is both the in
terest and duty of the citizens of
these United States to maintain in
violate.
Voied, That the Moderator of
this meeting be reqneited to tranf
mit a copy of the above votes to the
Hon. Thomas Ruflel, Esq. President
of the meeting of the merchants
and others of the town of Bolton,
and to nflure him that we received
the communication of the doings of
their meeting with fari»fa<ftion ;
and that we will most cheerfully
unite with them in - carryiogthe oh
je<s\ of them into full and complete
execution.
By order of ths [aid viteiing,
JAMES BRADFORD, Mideratir
dugufl 20th, 1793•
AT a meeting of ,the merchants
and others, inhabitant* of the town
of Gloucester, in coufeq'tenee of a
circular letter from the met chants
pUXB V R V ( Majfachnfetti)
Gloucester (Majf.)
T, PHILADKLPKIA
[Whole No. 457. j
and millers of the town of BotVon,
refpec r tin« the Prcfideiu's We P,o
clani:ition.—
U antei. Ro.ge b-s, Ffq. PreJ'iieut.
Voted, Tliat we consider ibe Pre
fi dent's latePioclaiua:iirn asthe moil
(alurary step that conld have been
adopied to fecoi e the neutrality of
the United States, during the pre
sent European co»tc(l , and pi e
ferve inviolate those faci ed Nation
al Rights which are the grand basis
cf good government.
Voted, That we will exert onr
tnmofl: endeavors to prevent a breach
of ftich neutrality, and to bring to
putiifhment the perpetrators
of such breach, whose feme; iry /JiaJl
leinpt tfietii to the cotiiiniiuin of
such conduct.
Voted, T|iat we feel oitrfelvs
peculiarly interested In tiie support
ofthe President's Proclamation, not
only ;>s citizens df the United States,
but frctn our local fiiuation, as
thereby* it tends to the eftabiiftiment
and pt otertion of one of the gr;rnd
Itaples of this Coinmonwealth, the
Fifheryof Maflachufetts.
Voted, That a copy of the pro
ceedings of this meeting be trahf
mined to Mr. Benjamin Btiffcl„ fc'di
iar of the Columbian Celriiiiiil,. stnd
reqneft their publication.
Si t<-ue copy from'the Records,
JOHN G. ROGERS,Stc'rji.
Glohctfter, Augujl 28, 1793.
Portsmouth (New-Hump. J
Agreeable to notification, for the
purpose of considering of the Pre
sident's Proclamation declaring
thele United States neutral, i'nthc
prelent European war, the inha
bitants of this town alfembled, on
the 28th u!t. and palled the follow
ing refolntions :
Voted, That the inhabitants of
this town do heartily approve of
the Proclamation of the President
of the Supienie Executive of the
United States, warning all persons
to refrain from violating the taw of
nations, and declaring the neutra
lity of the United States, and their
disposition to observe a conduct
friendly and impartial to ward's all
the belligerent Powers.
2d. That in our opinion the Pre
sident of the United States in ifT'u
ing his Proclamation has ailed in
ftritft conformity to the nature and
duties of his office, as the Executor
of the L aws and Guardian of the
Public Welfare, »niif thereby ren
dered essential ferviee to the Public
in general, and tnolf seasonable re
lief to the Mercantile interell at a
time when it was doubted in foreign
ports whether our flopping would
remain neutral or not.
3d. Thar we are determined to
affifl to the otinoft of our ability
the Government in maintaining the
Neutrality and Peace of the United
Stfttes, afid will life our best endea
vors to deleft and bring to Jullice
all persons who by their adis and
proceedings shall violate the Law
of Nations, and endangerthe Peace
and Welfare of the Union.
4th. That we rely on the fnpporr
and energy of the government of
the United States, that our Naviga
tion shall be fr£ed from the present
depredations and inftilts committed
by the Powers at War—and that
jnft compenfarion shall be made to
those who have fuffered by fucli un
warrantable cotvdull.
G. Went worth, ToiUH-C/crt.
Chestertown (Maryland)
At a meeting of the citizens of
Kent county, in the Srare of
htad, convened M the court bmrtfe
in this town, on the rfay of A»-
gust, for the ptirpofe o( declaring
their feutiinents relative terte'FVd-m ejjHtntion Wlued'by
•tlie ttfllowiffg uv..u..i'.lollS fclolvr
*' licus were entered i"oi
K Jum i Ll"jd*t>i*th: Chair :
tit Relolved, T*liat citizens
of Kent county are deeply imprtti
ed with a fenl'e of the excellence or
the government under which they
have the happiness to live, and that
they will use their belt endeavors
to support and maintain the said go
vernment.
ad. That they consider the pre
servation of the public peace as el
fentially neced'ary to the welfare
and prosperity of the United Spates
of America.
3d. That the Proclamation of
neutrality, issued by the President
of rhe United States, was dictated
by viifdom and moderulith ; that it
is perfectly consistent with our trea
ties with foreign nations, and pro
motive of the belt interclts of Ame
rica.
4>h. That we will exert our bell
endeavors to discountenance and
prevent all infringements ot the
said neutrality.
jili. 1 hat we consider our fellofc
citizen, George Presi
dent of the United States of Ameri
ca, as deserving of the highest ve
lieration and love of his country ;
equally great and ufeful in his pre
fein fltoation as formerly in the
field, and whiHt the whole tenor
of his condntt proves him to have
no views, no wilhes, but for the
public good, we think him jullly
entitled to the confidence of United
America.
6th. That we will ever oppose
all attempts of foreign nations, or
their agents, to deprive our beloved
fellow-citizen, the said President
■of the United States, of the love
and efteein of his country.
7th. That the United States of
America being, by the bleffiiig of
God, free and independent, it is
our duty as good citizens, both with
our lives and fortunes, to defend
their freedom and independence,
against all internal intrigue and
cabal, as well as agaiuft all attacks
from without.
Bth. That the Chairman be re
queued to tranfinit a copy of these
relolutions to the President of the
United States;
JAMES LLOYD, Chairman
At a numerous meeting of the
freemen of the county of King Wil
liam, on the 29th day of August,
1793, in order to take into confiae
ration the Proclamation of the Pre
dent of the United States of Ame
rica, it was unatiiinoufly the opinion
of the said freemen,
THAT the conduct of the Prefi
«lent in ifluing his proclamation,
was highly commendable; and a
Committee was appointed to draw
Dp refoiutioue declarative of chefe
sentiments, confiftingof the follow
ing gentlemen :—Carter Braxton,
inn. William Dan Claiborne, Drury
Ragfdale, Robert Pollard, Benjamin
Temple, John Roane, jnn. John
Warden, William F. Gaines, Tho
mas Nell'on, Holt Richefon, Hum
phrey Brooke, George Braxton, and
Francis Dandridge ; whereupon the
committee retired to prepare the
fame—and after some time spent
therein, Braxton re
ported, that the committee had
formed the following refolutioils,
which were agreed to unanimouily ;
RWolved, That it is incumbent on
America, and will be highly benefi
cial to her jntereft, to observe all
treaties (he may have entered into>
with the ItriJleft faith and mod vi
gilant caution.
Tliat whatever the wishes of Ame
ricans may be with respect to the
event of the war, which now rages
in Europe, it would be imprudent
to take part with either of the bel
ligerent powers.
That the proclamation of our be
loved Prefidentof the United States,
was well timed, and is highly ap
proved of by this meeting ; and that
it displayed a parental watchfulnefs
for the public good, which ought
to endear him to every grateful ci
tizen and virtuous mind.
Richmond (Virg.)
That all attemprshnlierto made;
lo wound his cbamdter, i'o far frpin.
his political
indelible,
d»(jy-aaron have
the attempt. „ .
l i i '®iß^ o^» ,ent Amer^ca
to procure
domestic which ought
never t<?be aillurbed by foreign in*-
fluence.
That the freemen of the coanty
of King William do mod heartily
Approve of the firm and difiiitest
ed condutft of the President of IthjP
United States, in enjoining SfflwA
neutrality towards the beHigerci*
powers.
That all attempts of perfrtHS, not
citizens of the United States, to
interfere with their government,
ought to meet with delegation.
By order of the meeting,
N. BURVVELL, Chairmau,
Tejl, Thomas Butler, jun. Sec.
Mipdletown, (Conn.)
At a Town-Meeting of t|?e Inha
bitants of Middletowii, l c g*"y
warned, and bolden an th 4 fifth of
September, 1793
Mat I hew Talcott, Esq. Moderator.
BezalsH Fiji, Town, Clerk.
IT appearing that the condudi of
the Federal Executive has been
charged with contravening the views
of the people of America: Audit
being our right, as citizens of a free
Republick, to express our opinion
on public measures.
llefolved, That, in our opinion,
the Proclamation of the Prefidenc of
the United States, reminding his
fellow citizens of their obligations,
to observe the equitable fyltem of
friendfllip and impartiality, towards
the belligerent powers of Europe,
was a seasonable and judicious tnea
fure, llricily within the line of his
conltitutional duty—a proof of his
vigilant and enlightened patlicuifm,
and merits the approbation of the
people.
Resolved, That while the United
States are at peace the Euro
pean powers, it is a contravention
of the duty of good citizens, jo com
mit acts of hostility, which In
volve the community in the general
calamity of war ; and for any Ame
rican citizen to enter on board a
foreign privateer and rob the peace
ful merchant on the high fca, is a
species of piracy which delerves t he
punifhinent of the law, as weli as
the detestation of the friends toho
neft induflry.
Resolved, That in the present
jun<Sure of affairs, it highly inierelts
the infant republic of the United
States, to support tlieir own eonfti
tuiional officers; and that the Pre
(ident, having through a loiigcourfe
of years given decisive evidence of
his patriotic merit, and being called
to his present office by the unani
mous fuffrages of a free and inde
pendent nation, has a just title to
the confidence and support of all
his fellow citizens.
Resolved, That the preceding re
solutions be inserted in the Middle
sex Gazette.
A true Ext rail.
Test, BEZALEEL FISK,
- Town Clerk.
New Haven (Connetticut.)
Letter from the President of the
United States, to the Mayor of
the City of New-Haven.
Philadelphia, Augufl 24, 1793.
Sir,
1 RECEIVE with great fatisfac
tion the patriotic resolutions of the
citizens of New Haven, which were
tranfinitted to ine in your letter of
the 20th inft. and I can with truth
allure them, that to receive the ap
probation of my fellow citizens, I
consider as my greatest glo'ff, 'as to
deserve it will ever be by constant
study.
If the measures of government,
approved and supported by the vir
tuous citizens of the United States,
can secure to our country, in the
ptefent critical times, a continuance
of peace atid the enjoyment of its
attendant bleflings, <which we have
as it were but begun totalis, I shall
feel amply compensated for the ma
ny anxious moments which 1 have
538
lately experienced on account of
our welfare ; and we (hall have trelh
caufeof gratitude to the great Ruler
of events for Ins prefetving guod
nefs. G. WASHING TON.
Samu£{. Bishop, Elquire,
Mayor of the city of New-Haven.
York, (Pennf.) Sept. 11.
The Judges of the Court of Com
mon Pleas, the Grand Jurors for
the County of York, and a respec
table meeting of the inhabitants of
the Borough and County, convened
at the Court-hoofe, to conlulc on
the propriety of giving to the pub
lic a mauifeitation of ilieir accord
ante with, and inoft cordial appro
bation of (lie advice ami injunctions
contained in the late Proclamation
of the Frefideut of the United States,
" exhorting the citizens of this
country to a Uriel neutrality to
wards the European belligerent
powers."
Resolved, Thar at this important
period, we hold fiience on the inte
resting quefliop of national peace or
war, to be a failure in our doty as
citizens, and that war in all instan
ces, ought by every due means to
be avoided, and that he who enter
tains a differentdoiftrine, isan ene.
my to human happiness.
That although we highly approve
the exertion of a great nation, in
the aflertion of their lights, yet we
cannot perceive that our interfer
ence in their favor, would promote
the cause of general libei ty.
That under this imp re IB on, we
would consider any other conduct
towards the powers t»t war, than
what is neutral, as tending to injure
the interests of the Union at large,
and this State in an especial man
ner.
Resolved, That we hold the mod
scrupulous adherence to neutrality
of condutt, as a duty we owe to <iui -
selves and our country, and as the
soundest wil'doin, and the belt poli
cy of this nation.
Resolved, That we cannot but
think that the President of the Uni
ted States has, by his late Proclama
tion, (hewn himfelf, once more, the
friend of mankind, and the coun
sellor of his country's peace.
that we will by every poflihle ef
fort, give energy to his Proclama
tion, and support to his conftituti
onal authority.
Resolved, That the foregoing re
solutions be published.
Signed by order dCthe meeting,
HENRY MILLER, Chairman
Test, S. Riddle, Sec'l7.
September f.
GEORGE-TOWN, Sept. 7
Twenty-five managers are ap
pointed under oath, to superintend
the drawing of the Hotel Lottery,
to commence on Monday next,their
names are as follows :
Wm. Deakins, 1 Marfham Warring, )
Benj. Sioddert, > Win. Robertfon, >
S. Blodger, } Col. j
Uriah For reft, } James Lingan, ")
N >tley Young, V Thomas Peter, >
Brook Beall, ) Thomas Cram ph wi, )
D<>niel Carroll, of J Phil. R. Fcndall,
Duddington, f Col. Gilpin, f
Peter Cafanave, f Robert Peter, Q
John Gantt, ) James )
Sam. Davidfon, John Mivfon,
Nich. Lingan, > Francis Lowndes, >
Ig. Fenvyick, ) William Digges. )
Not less than three are to attend
at the commencement, and the reft
are to serve in rotation, till the
drawing is completed.
City of Washington
The Capitol is in progression, the
south-east corner is yet kept vacant;
that corner Stone is to be laid with
the assistance of the brotherhood,
theißthinft. Those of the craft
however dispersed are requested to
join the work, the solemnity is ex
petfled to equal the occasion ; the
preceding day the sale of the lots
in the city commences. The in
habitants on both fides of Patow
niac will attend to their interell—
theirs and that of the Union are
the fame s the firft story of the Ho
tel is expecSed to be np by that
time, and the lottery for that ele
gant building will be then drawing
— Numbers are expected from the
extreme parts of the Continent, atid
if Nature, Beauty and Solidity can
pleale they will be gratified.
The inhabitants of the City «f
VVujhiogtun are remarkably healthy.
PETERSBURG, Sept. j.
At a lite election in the county
of Beaufort, Nurlli-Caiyliua, lor
members of the IJoufe of Commons
of that State, a riot took place, at
the time of countingout the ballots,
in consequence of the election being
likely to terminate againlt the With
of the rioters—Near the close of the
poll a general battle enf'ued, in
which the ballot box w as taken puf
fciiion of, and dellroyed.
BOSTON, Sept. 4.
A correspondent would aik, whe
ther it is confifleut wiih aiiy princi
ples of neutrality or truth, to brand
a whole nation, from which Ameri
cans are delcended, as .1 "/ei of pit
rates vjho would difgruce Algiers
Brave men of every nation, and
of every principle, ever have a re
rpet r t for each other—Thus the in
trepid Captain Bompnid has been
Known to have given his anragonilt
in the late engagement, the pi aife
due to his acknowledged bravery—
How different is this honorable de
portment from the conduct of the
witlings and the poetasters of the
day! «-
TheTortune o-F war is precarious
—and no more difcredic falls to the
Ihate of the Boston, than to the
Cleopatra— Both 101 l their comman
ders, and both were unfuccefsful.
And the generons inind would as
much despise the fare alms of an
English Sinbdt, as it doth that of the
T htladelphian.
A correspondent informs us, that
there are now building in this Com
monwealth, near an hundred fail of
veilels, from ijo to Bco tons burthen
—a great number of which will be
lannched this autumn.
The Trustees of the Humane So
ciety, at ilieir meeting, for th»
month of.Auguft, gave a reward oi
Ten Dollat s, to Mefii s. John Whitney
and Luk; Mvrfe, for rcfcuing Mr.
James Ryan, of Roxbury, from the
moil iminent danger of drowning,
when bathing in the Mill-Creek of
that town, on the 30th June, with
five or fix others.
We hear with pleafafe, the ft ill
encreafing (lateofouruNivEßSiTYj
—more have entered this year than
at any time since its foundation.—
There are now at Cambridge as ma
ny students as would fill another
building as large as Holhs. One of
our correspondents queries, whe
ther, if the General Court (hould
decline giving the necefiary affiil
ance towards e reeling another build
ing, it might not be effected by
Subscription ? There are about 60
Youths crowded into private hou
ses in Cambridge, because there i»
no room within the walls, and seve
ral who have been examined obli
ged to quit the Univerfuy because
they cannot bear the expense of liv
ing in private houses. Our corres
pondent is of opinion, that an ad
ditional building for our fludious
youth, is alm'ijl as necessary at this
time, as a new Theatre in the metro
polis.
PITTSBURGH, Sept. 7,
By the arrival of some persons
from Fort Wafliington on Monday
last, we are informed, that rhe
dians still continue hovering about
the out garrisons, and occasionally
Healing horses that the army i»
in high spirits, anxiously waiting
the event of the treaty, and hoping
that a campaign will take place, as
no idea of peace is entertained by
any one—that the greatest pain*
have been taken by the commander
in chief, in training! his men in the
art of wood fighting, and thgt from
their proficiency, and the. unanimi
ty prevailing throughout tliewhoTe
army, success may be expected
should a campaign take place. '
NEW-YORK, Sept. 11.
' Last Friday the Court of Ojer and
Terminer, held for this State in
Wert-Chefter . County, patted sen
tence of death oti John Ryer, for
the murder of Isaac Smith, late de
puty Sheriff in said county. He is
to Ire executed on th.s fecand oi Oc-
tober nextPARIS, Jul) 2.
By a letter from Marseilles, da
ted 26th Ju»e, wc are in formed,
lhac the 32 feftions having been
made acquainted with the decree
by which the Popular Tribunal had
been outlawed, had taken an oath
{ o support the said Tribunal. The
Administrators of Gironde, Gard,
and the High Alps, have sworn
unity with the Sections of Mar
seilles, and communicated to them
the measures which their different
departments bad taken.
The Roy alt Its have npt made any
movement's since their action with
General Welterman. The prison
ers taken at Partlienay have been
font to Niort. There is no news
from the army in Tours, nor has it
quitied its (late of inaction.
Lalt Ttief'day all the Municipal
Officers, drelied ill their official
fear fa, having copied into the re
cords of the Council General, the
Laws, relative to the New Conftitn
tion, repaired in procession to all
the Sections of the Capital, to pro
claim the opening of the Primary
Allemblies, and to present the New
Conftiiution to the people.
Hen riot has obtained (a decisive
majority of votes, and is returned
Provisional Commandant General
of the Parisian National Forces.
LONDON, July 15.
The important Fortreisof Conde,
now in the polleffion of the Allies is
one of the itrongelt towns in the
province of Hainault ; it is situated
near tlie confluence ot the Haifive,
ami the Scheldt, seven miles from
Valenciennes, and 117 from Paris.
The primary Assembles are con
vened for the acceptance of the
Conititntion. of which a variety of
fall'e copies and parodies have al
ready made their appearance. Ihe
Convention have therefore decreed
pain of death againfl every printer
and leller, who (hall circulate ano
ther copy, but that emanated from
the Convention.
I reparations for making the next
campaign are already determined
The War-Office has given no
iice that as loon as the Guards and
ihe other regiments from which
have been made, (hall be
completed, new regiments will be
raised, and they have fortunately
received a number of offers. 1 bey
do not expert to get them, as here
tofore, from the Highlandsot Scot
land. The wilderness of the pre
lent day is a manufatfturirig town.
on.
The federal gazette. V
/ *
f Gentlemen,
MOTIVES of humanity ami friendfhip to 1
the citizens of Philadelphia, induce me to ad
it re fs to you this letter, in the hope that it
may be in lome degree inrtrumental in dimi
nilhing the present prevailing calamity. It
is 'natural to be affliiHed not only at the moi
tali'ty which is said to obtain, but at the con
sequences of that undue panic which is fall
depopulating the city, and suspending buficefs
Uoth pttMic and private. j : _
I have myfeif been attacked with the reign
ing putrid fever, and with violence—but I
truftthatlam now conipleatly out r.f dan
ger. Tins lam to attribute, under God, to
the flcill and care of my friend Doctor Stevens,
• gentlenianlately from the iflandofSt.Croix,
oiieto sihofe talents I can attest, Irom an in
timate atevnintance begun in early youth,
whole medical opportunities have beenof the
left, and who has had the advantage of much
experience both m Europe (having been in
. Edinburgh lome years since, when the fame
fever raged there) and in the Weft-Indies,
•where it is frequent. His mode of treating
thpdifovder varieseffentiallv from that, which
lias beeA generally praftifedi-And I am per-
Vwaded, when puifued, reduces it to little
More than ordinary hazard.
I know him fa well, that I entertain no
ydoubt, thathe will freely impart his ideas to
700, colletSively,or individually, and being in
oiv own person a vitnels to the efficacy of his
plan, I venture to believe, that if adopted,
and if the courage of the citizens can be roul
■ed, many -lives will be saved, and much ill
i I may add, that as far as canbe
yet pronnunced, its efficacy has been alike
proved on Mrs. Hamilton, who is now in the
<!iforder, contracted from me, every fa
<vouTable appearance.
'in giving you this information, gentlemen,
I have done what I thought discharging a du
ty. I only add, that if any conference with
So&or Stevens, is defited, that he is going
to-morrow to New-York, from which journey
be has been detained several days, ou my ac
count.
I am, Gentlemen, with refpetf,
Yom obedient fcrvant,
A. HAMILTON.
September m.
Philadelphia, Sept.; 14.
We are informed that the ,-difoider which
has prevailed in this city for foine time pa,ft
begins to afl'ume a less malignant appearance
than has heretofore been the cafe Th&t it
yields more kindly to the force of medical ap
plications—and, thdugh great numbers of
persons are sick, yet the mortality is diminifli
ing fact. There can be 110 doubt on the mind
of any reflecting person, that the great
changes in the weather which have rtcently
taken plact, occasion as many complaints, as
any other cause whatever,—This confidera- >
tion should serve to ditfipate the fears aijfl ag-.
piehenfions of thofi; who may be attacked,
with flight disorders, as these may |be nb-]
thing more than the annual Fall' Fevers,
the cause of which, being so fully known I
to the faculty, the indisposition ii susceptible
of almost certain cure.
According to a lift publilhed of the births
and deaths in the several religious Tocicties
oi'Philadelphia, it appears that from August
1 1 1 79 2 i to August I, 1793, the Births amount
ed to 2511, and the Deaths to 1497.
Captain Bompard is promoted to the com
mand of {he Jupiter of 74 guns, and has 6)0
men already enrolled—The Eole is now a
Flag Ship, and commanded by M. Sercey.
The B'itifh Packet, Queen Charlotte, ar
rived at Nfcw-York the loth inft. She left
Falmouth the ioih July—*aud has therefore
bro't nothing new.
The Boston Frigate* according to a letter
dated Halifax, the 26ch August, publilhed in
the New-York papers, is arrived at Halifax.
A private letter from Bourdeaux, dated 10th
June, 1793, figoed Pitey, gives , an account,
that on the Brh of that month, in an action
with the French near Bayonne, the Spaniards
left on the ground 4566 men dead, 1900 pri
soners, and nearly as many wounded—while
the French loft only 79 killed, and 114 wound
ed—The Spaniards were ambuscaded.
[It is remarkable that this affair is not
mentioned in any public account that has ap
peared—tho* Paris artic)es to the loth July,
a month after, have becu publimed.]
According to a Journal of the S ege of Va
lenciennes from the firft to the seventh of
July inclusive, the loss of the befie£ers by the
fre of the French, was 55 killed, and 205
wounded.
The American Universal Geography, by
Mr. Uoijcy has made its appearance, in two
handsome o&avo volumes, of 550 pages each.
This work is now felling in the principal
Book-stores on the Continent. It contains
information necelTiry for ail—the history of
the European and other States and kingdoms,
is brought down tot Vie latest period—that of
France, to the death of Louis XVl.—and a
greater variety of the mod intereftingta£ls &
original discoveries refpefting our own coun
try, are to be found therein, than perhaps in
any work hitherto publilhed.
COMMUNICATIONS.
A writer in a late Virginia paper, who ap
pears to be milled at ihe fpomanrouJ elfulions
of patriotism on the pan of ihe people, in ihtir
public approbation of the measures purfutd by
the President of the United States, to prefeive
the peace of this country, propofct that meetings
of the people should be called, to coutlteraft
what Iras been clone by the people. Another
writer in anot-her quaiterluggefts the propriety
of the people's being silent while the fluicwof
flandcr in the a (Turned name of the people, fl«W>
''with the must iutemperate abnfe against their
government and its administration.—Another
g.mus from the fame mint, fays, that a declara
tion ill favor of the Pioclamation-of neutrality
is neccffarily connected with an avowal of fen
timentshoftiletoth. liberties of Fiance. When
such ideas are resorted to and held up as induce
ments to the people to despise their OWII go
vernment, the enemies of peace must be redu
ced to the most deplorable povctty of argu
ment.
The word idea that can be associated with
government to render it odious, arijiocracy, is
perpetually exhibited in the foreground of all
the declamations against the Conft'.tution and
government of the United States, II the peo
ple filcntly and cheerfully fultmit to the legisla
tive proceedings of Congress—they areaddrelTed
as the supine and pafTive dupes of arijiocracy
if they are roused by open and daring attacks on
their sovereignty, on the charaffcrs of their liee'y
defied civil rulers, and on the nieafures of their
government from which they derive the most
solid blessings—is they presume under these cir
cumstances to express their indignation againfl
the dilturbers of their peace, and to fay that
their country is happy—happy in the enjoyment
of the blessings of government laws and fiee
<jom—we are told that such declarations are
produced by " the wild and savage appetite of
aristocracy."
Nothing is more evident than this, that the
inveterate enemies of the Constitution of the"
United Slates are enemies to all government
whatever—for no government that can be seen,
felt, or underftuod, let its adm.mftration be
ever so salutary, can possibly escape the ccnfurc
of those who'cenfure the people for fupportmg «
fyficm which their own hands have reared—and
for expressing the homft feelings of their hearts,
when they are happy.
In all revolutions of government, it so hap
pens that a coefidcrable proportion of worthier.
Ltd unprincipled men are brought forward in
to conspicuous situations—but as infoimation
and experience, whatever source they may be
deiived from, are tmportant i effcntial truths
may often N extra&ed from lourees not the
molt pure and honorable—lf, however, u ftiould
uoloiiuuaiely happen that such charaaeri
-539 -
quire a preponderating influence, and at length
conlliiuie ihe majoniy—u almoll invariably lol
lops thai the public good 14 goei'by the wall"—
for then is nothing moF<! certain than this, thai
tbe is always a fccondary conji
deration % with men of no principles The fore
going remarks will be found jufttfied by a re»
currence to ancient and modern tranfa&ions.
No projejjions therefore iliould ever induce the
people to place their confidence in persons,
whose principles and praflices evince that right
and wrong, truth and faljhood are fynonimoUs
terms, as they refpi &ivt ly comport with their
immediate and peifonal advantage.
The pfeudo-patrioti of the day, having been
compleatly foiled by the people in their at
■'i>iv^'r S 10 catler fire-brands, arrows and death,
tnm' tW United States, now fFiitt their ground
of itt'Jitk, audfrom attacking thrfervants of the
J *pshpie,. ihr.y attack the people themselves ;
this new topic, the mill of fidicion
has for some time past been employed in grind
ing oldJiuJf over again.
New-York, Sept. 12.
1 Ytfterday arrived here the ship A£live, Capt.
Seaman, jri 41 days from Liverpool :—She
brings no later paper? or news, than we have
had lately by Capt. Harvey, and others from
PaflVn'gefii arrived in the A£tive :
Mr. Jamea Renwick of this city, Merchant.
Mr. Black, of Liverpool.
Mr. Brierly, of Manchester.
Mr. Gray, • of Glasgow.
And about 40 other pa If ngers, mechanics,
See. men women and children.
'' The palTengers irrforth us, that the failures arc
in a great mcafure that trade is going
on wiih usual facility and indullry.
ExtraQ oja letter from London, dated July } 1793,
to a jriend here.
" Tnfucheftecm is Charles Fox held for hi
patriotic services, that the mod generous sub
fcriptjon ever made for any man took place 01
lalk week a r . the London Tavern, in order to re
ft eve Him in his piVfent embarr'aflVd state of ft
dances, and, at the fame time, the gieatcft deli
racy ulfd, that he might not he hurt in his feel
ings on the occasion.—Some fubferibed 3,000!
and no man less than 1001. by which his debti
were honorably difcharged,an annuity of 3,000!,
per annum purchased for him and a present
made to him of bq,OCOI. to begin the world
anew.—A clear proof, that no nation is so gf
nerous in rewarding true virtue at the Briuth
, nation."
From the SOUTHERN CENTINEL.
Printed at. Augufia, Georgia.
WERE we (fays a correspondent) to hazard
an opinion on the politics of Philadelphia, by
papers publiftied in that city, the inference
would be, that, in one instance excepted,
there is not the fmallefl difference between
the Jacobin 1 ; of Philadelphia and thole of Paris.
It is true they have committed no murders
or horrjd acts of cruelty (the pride and glory
of the French Jacobins) but how often have
t]iey attempted to blast and murder the cha
racter of our beloved President : And for
, Because lie would not 1 offer a let of
desperadoes, the rubbish of all nation*, to in
volve the United States in a war, by arming
and fitting out velfels in our ports—because
lie would not raise an immense army, to drive
Governor Simcoe and a handful of Britifli
troops from the western in
»Ihoi t, he would not bring all the horrors of
war on his country, to fatisfy the views of a
few discontented, factious individuals. Those
who give implicit belief to the torrent of
abuses daily poured out against him, ought
difpaflionately to refledl on his past services.
They ought to know—they ought to be well
assured, that the man, who under divine Pro
vidence snatched his country from slavery,
will not be instrumental in its deftru&ion.—
Since the unanimous voice of bis fellow-citi
zens called him into public life, his character
has flood unsullied ; nor is it in the power of
anonymous revilers to tarnilh it, whilftone
spark of liberty remains unextinguiftied in
the breast of an American.
The Jutloiving is a copy of" the Senate's
j anfiner to the Governor*s address to
both Htufes of the Legijlature, ai
the opening of the present feflion.
Sir,
THK Senate of Pcnnfylvania .unite with
Oil ill declaring, thai every just and confti
utiona! exertion to maintain the dignity of
>ur government, and to prevent a participa.
ion in the war, which unhappily exists at
:his time in Europe,deferves tne approbation
jf every patriotic citizen; and with equal
(incerity we acknowledge a high sense of the
as well as in the important intcrefts of the
federal government, as to the particular in
terelts of Pennsylvania. We allure you, fir,
that a candid interpretation will be given to
every measure of your adininiftration, and
that whatever is calculated at this critical
period, to prefer ve the bleflings of peace, to
cilablifh the national character, and to insure
harmony and order, will receive as it merits,
our approbation and fauftion. We lament,
however, that the present feflion will proba
bly bafo fliort, as to prevent our engaging in
conlideration of the various fubje&s of
ypur address ; but we are confident that at a
future period, they will receive all the atten
tion which is due to their impoitance.
SAMUEL POWELL,
Speaker of the Senate.
DEATHS.
Died, on the gth inft. at hi* feat near Wright'.
Ferry, on theSufquehanna, the Hoti.Wiuuii
Aucustus Atlii, Esquire, Prefidcnt of ihe
Courts of Common Picas of Wfft-Chefter, Lan
«lte., Yo»k and Dauphin Countiei.
In thi» Citv, M.PufONi, Coiilufoflhe
Frcnch Republic.—Mr. W*. cht, Lim
net- j(r. Wx«tos, Scho.ojm.tUr.
EXTRACT,
From the iVI a.< y l amd Herald,
hover fbffcrtf his memory to icvolwover
the hmoi tc aui.ais of the wot .16 V inult heave an
figli,"when he Ih nks on (he intfabi
luy of the fy Items of h urn an government.—-
How soon thole, which were fuppoleti by the
philanthropes of the age, to be the best moO. s
of promoting the bapprneis of society after the
temporary duration of a few centuries, have
funk into the gulph.of time, and fcareely Jetc
a trace behind i—The Patriarchal Family-
Power, —the ancient Dynasties of Egvpi, the
mighty Democracies of Greece, and the powi
erful republic of Rome; have long since exilt
eci only in the pages of historians. Wnat mor
tal then (hall fay in his heart, I will fit tlowy,
and c«»rve out a government, againlt which the
ttorms of tyranny or anarchy (hall beat in vain.'*
V try little attention hating teen paid to the
earnejl felicitations of the Editor that Sukfcribers in
arrears for the Gazette, uou/d make payment—he is
obliged to repeat his requejl.—lt is with the great eft
rcgTet that he is compelled to injorm his numerous
Subscriber s y that the publication mujl be discontinued
in a month from this date, unless thoje arrearages
Jhould, in the mean time t be remitted him.
Piiilad. Sept. 14, 1793.
SHIP NEWS,
ARRIVED PORT 0/PHILADELPHIA.
Ship T'uftram, Daily, London-Derry
Dispatch, Hathaway, Coiunna
Dommick Terry, Dcheari, London
General Lincoln, J°y» Bourdeaux
Pbabe, Luckvei, Copenhagen
Brig Dichofa, I.'Jarfa, Cadiz
Wilson, N. Oi leans
Salome, WafiTon, Havre-de-Grace
Aurora, O'Brien, Dingle, Ireland
Bet fey, Stone, Port-au-Prince
—S ■■ , - Cadit
Sc'hr. Kliza'-.eth',
Philips,
Wanted,
IN A CENTRAL PART Of THE CITY p
A LARGE
Convenient House.
Enquire of the Editor
To be Sold
AT PR IV A T£ SALE,
A Valuable Lot of 16
Acres of LAND, lying on the great road lead
ing from Princeton to Trenton, 1 £ milts from
Princeton; with a tan-yard, baik-hoqfe, beam
houfc and cm rying-lhop, a never failing stream
of water running through the fame ; a good
dwelling-house, with an entry and two rooms
on the lower floor, and three on the upper floor ;
a kitchen adjoining, with a cellar under ibe
whole, and a Wt li of water at the door; also,
170 bearing apple-trees, and two or ih:ee acres
of watered meadow. There will be au indis
putable title given. Any person inclining to
purchase, may kn6w the terms of laic by ap
plying to the Subscriber on the premises.
MATTHEW CLARKE.
( e P4 w )
September 14, 1793.
George-Town,
(PATOWMAC)
September 9, 1793.
THE Commiflioners of the Federal Buildings
having received only one or two days pre
vious lo the time appointed for the commence
ment of the drawing of the W'aJhtnjton Hotel
Lottery, information tKat a number of Tickets
which had been deposited for sale in the hands
of peifons at a distance, were still unfold ; and
there being no fund established to pay any lofi
that might be sustained by keeping these tickets
at the ri(k of the City, they (the Commiflioners)
determined to defer the drawing until they
could-bc a]] fold.
Under these circumflanccs, a number of gen
tlemen of this town, snd the City of Washing.
ton, formed themselves into a company, and
took upon themselves all the tickets remaining
on hand, on the express condition agreed on by
the Commiflioners, that the drawing of the
Lottery should absolutely commence on the 23d
instant, and be continued without interruption.
The Subscribers have been appointed a com
mittee to manage the concerns of this company t
which was formed on public, not privare mo
tives—And in pursuance of their inftru&ions,
they now inform the public, that Tickets will
be deposited with the following gentlemen :
G. Scott, Baltimore Town ; J. Davidfon,
Annapolis; D. Crawford, Upper Marlboro';
B. Lowndes, Bladenfburg; B. Turner, Pnri
tobacco ; J. Wilkin Ton, Calvert County ; J.
Fenwick, St. Mary's County ; G. Murdock,
Frederick Town; H. Clagete, Hagei'sTownj
M. Waring, George Town ; W. Herbert, Alex
andria W. Tbompfon, Colchester ;J. Muf
chent. Dumfries; R. Patton, Fredenckfburg j
T. Mason, Richmond ; Campbell and
Peterfburgh ; Sam. Love, Newgate—
Who will fell the fame until Saturday the 21ft
inft. at the original price of 7 dollars.
If, contrary to the expc&ations of the com-*,
pany, any of their Tickets should remain unfold
when the drtwing commences, a iteceflary at
tention to save themselves horn loss, will com
pel them to take advantage of the rife in price,
which will certainly then take place.
B. STODDERT,
J. MASON,
J. M. LINGAN,
M. WARING,
T. PETER.
N. B. The Manageri are toforward, daily, to
the Poft-offices of each of the principal town!
on the continent, an accurate lift of each day'a
diawing the blanki, at welln pricea, will b«
contained in ihrfo lifts, in order thai no OM
may b' on by any sals or puithaCc
dnwn'cken dmioj tb«
" '• <^ : 1
Cape-FrancoisCt, ~'
Frtm Flint a ld.
PARTY- WR in gene
ral :o be cautiot:liy rend—in a
great ciills, like that of the spring
1776,. they are more fiucercly de
voted nil each fide to what appears
tp be the trutlt. In times of quiet
they are generally contemptible and
dangerous. The liberty of the
prels, that glorious right of frte
citizens, will naturally iufpire a
vain man or a rcftlef» and vifionaty
o.ie.with the ambition of diflindtion.
A vain man, if he can write ai all,
when he has once fuccefsfnlly ven
tured, becomes oracular, dogmatic
& troitbiefome—His insolence grows
with his vaniry, and from the faci
lity with which he can auaik the
conduit of government, 01 of those
who fill its nulls, the opinion o/hu
own consequence increases—He hugs
himfelf in the belief that as he can
wound, he is considered as formida
ble. The lafl knowledge perhaps
that such a man acquires, is the
know ledge of himfelf. In his vain
a«d felfilh indulgence, lie flatters
himfelf into the idea that he under
stands inoft fobj;<fts well enough to
write 011 them with force and acute
nefs—Were such a man nfked whe
ther he had devoted himfelf to the
bell authors—and digested their
learning by reflection—Whether he
had long endeavored to cleanse his
own mind—to letftify its defects—
to ameliorate his iitfeiSions, and to
gain that philosophical tranquility
which is so neceflary to the difcern
nient of abftritfe truth—his conver
sation and his habits of life would
answer for him, if lie had not ho
nesty enough to tell you—No, he
has not studied long or well. An
intimate knowledge of all that
others have laboriously investigated
would have inspired him with mo
desty— He would learn in the revo
lution of opinions, for ages, a diffi
dence of his own—and lie would
amiably be disposed to caution, and
to repress his contempt for the opi
nions of others. A rectitude of un
derltanding, had he cultivated it,
would have corrected that reltlefs
vanity and disposition to obtt ufion
which mark a hade to write or to
speak dogmatically ; and had he
obtained t ranqtiility of mind, t bings
would appear in their true shapes,
and his discerning faculties would
have been invigorated. Under this
temper, a thouf'and things that spur
on the vain and the foolilh into er
ror and heat, would appear unim
portant and unworthy enquiry.
111 ihe country, men cei tainly
think with more correct ness, and
pofiels a more vigorous fiiare of
common feufe, than in crowded ci
ties—in them the (ciences generally
flourtfh moil — but the moral and po
litical qualities of men and of go
vernment, are perhaps bed felt at;d
11 tidied in the countiy, than amidst
the great mass of the people
Large commercial cities cSm Icarce
ly be claiied as of any one nation in
particular—they are generally com
posed of people from a great many
nations — such are Philadelphia, N.
if oik, &c.—There foreigners easily
obtain a footing and are caressed—
Scarcely are they warmed into l'up
plenefs by the genial climate of
freedom, but they feel a difpofuion
to meddle with the concerns of go
vernment — They find their impor
tance increased (in their own ima
gination) by an alliance with foine
faction which they may happen to
find ; and fnch is the mifcrnble ma
lignity of faction, that, like a gan
grene, it allimilates every thing
within its sphere to its own putrid
character—lt eagerly embraces any
man of any country, or itny cha
racter who will inlift in its lie ws.
The liberty of the press is the sacred
right of the citizens of this country
—It is a high and most iiluftrious
privilege which 110 man who is not
a citizen is here intitled to. Per
mit foreigners to use and to abuse
this privilege, and the sober part of
the community at a distance, who
cannot pofiibly know the writer,
may and will be exposed to the ma
chinations of foreign emillaries
Such foreigners (and 110 citizen can
be a foreigner) and temporary refi
dents, ought to remember that a
free anil wile nation have lung fmce
given us an example in point—we
I'-»ve foccelsfully imitated if.» Aihe
nians in the glotious pmiuit of li
berty— and I'urpaliod them. We
may perhaps feel jultiiied iu reviv
ing foment their laws, if forcigttu?
ca]! thefirfl flout. Tbe citizens of
this country ought to be too proud
of their country and its govern
ment, to bear with patience the
meddling obti ufivenels of any man
w'ho has not the honour of being a
citizen of the United States. The
French and Knglifh writers at Phi
ladelphia mitfl be quiet—and not
attempt to dill tub the peace of this
happy country.
TO THE PUBLIC
THE t'ulTOj* propefes to continue the
publication oj the Ga/. 1 ' r f or the L'niteu
STVfF.(, Jar dijlant ejrcu/alim, after lit fuji oj
December next, on theJol/owr'g tarn*, viz.
It Jh<itl be publjhtd on Wednksuays and
Satu ID.IVJ.on paper oj the Mediumfiie—ahich
ii larger thin tht ptefent.
The price. Ttucc Dollars per ainuiiri,f xclufivc
of poitatft*.
Subfcriptiom to be received by the rcfpe&ive Pcjl-
Maflers throughout the Union, or Juch othtr petfon t
at may fee propei to collefl them.
7he b rpers to be forwaided by pojl twice a week.
Wo packeti to contain lejj than si x papert- and no
fubjcnpticns to be received for a /ess term than Ji x
months:—Payments to be conjfant/y fix months in
advance. —Twcnt) pei c<vt. deduction from the price
of the Gazltte, will be allowed to iktje who col
lect and forward the fubfeription none-, free of ex.
tenfe y in full oj all charge* for their trouble in the
vujinefi. .. *
The publication wilt contain as vfual, a varietx of
original efjays —foreign and dom flic intelligence,
and a Jummary of the proceedings of the Leg ijlatui e
of the Union, &c. &c. Attention will be paid
to dispatching the papers with punEluality, and Sub
scribers may depend on receiving them as regularly,
»is the pojls arrive.
|UDC 8.
ADVERTISEMENT.
New-Jersey, ) virtue of a Writ to mc
SttJJcx County. IT. ) iJ) directed, itfued out of
the High Court of Chancery of Ncw-Jexfey, at
the fuu of William Shipley against John Ming
and. others; I Ihallexpofe to faleat Public Ven
due, on th;' fix h day of February next, between
the hours pi Twelve and Ftve in the AI tern <on
of th<- fame day, on the Premifcs, the following
delcribed Trait of Land, with its appurtenances,
fituaie in the Towuihip o} Oxford and County
ot SuflVx, beginning at a Chefnut Oak Tree, cor
n r ol D-iniel Cox's land, and (I'mriding in the
line of a former survey made to Thomas Stevcrt
fon, being maiked with the letter B. and thence
extending along Coke** line (futt) south filly de
grees well fifty-five chains and feventy-five links,
to a [} ack-Oak 1 ree corner of Joleph S!i;ppen's
land (second) south nine degrees and fifteen mi
nutes, weft ninety chains and fixty-five links to
a forked White-Oak Tree, marked with the let
ters R and B another of the laid Shippen's cor
ners (third) (hence north eighty degrees, eaftoue
hundred and forty-five chains, to a post on the*
fouthcrly lide of Paquanfte-R iver, being also a
corner of John Reading's land (lomth) ihrncr
north thirty-nine degrees weft, one hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place of beginning,
containing nine hundred and thirty acres with
the usual allowance for loads and high ways—
The fame Premises are within eight miles of the
River Del.; ware, and there is thereon a conveni
ent Grift Mill with two pair of Stones—a Saw
Mill in good repai-, with a fufficient ftrcam of
water for their ule—a Dwelling House, Store
House, and Several final) buildings.
MARK THOMPSON, Sheriff.
Dated 22d day of July, I 793
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Mont liouje, No. 41, south ScMnd-Strctt,
Medical Tranfa&ions
or THE
College of Physicians
OJ Philadelphia :
VOLUME I. PART I.
Price in boards One Dollar.
Also /a\rly publijhcd by T. Dob [on,
DR. UNDERWOOD'S TREATISE
On the difeales ot Children) with general di
rections for the management of mfan's from
the birth, adapcred both for the use ot Mcdi
c.al Practitioners and private l Families.
TWO VOLUMES IN ONB.
Pricc tve d»!!ai vtatfa bound.
FOR SALE, tiY
M A T H £ \V CAREY,
At his Store, No. 118, -Warkct-ttrcct,
Philadelphia,
THE AMERICAN MUSEUM, from its
commencement m January, 1787, to its
termination in D ccmbcr, 1792, in twelve vo
lum. s, price, neatly hound and lettered, nine
teen dollars and one fifth.
The opinion ot the Kelident of the United
States, refpeaing this work, is as follovs':
" I believe the American Mufcum has in'tt
with extensive, I may fay, with umvcrfal ap
probation from competent judges; (or lam o!
opinion, that the work is not only eminent ly
calculated 10 dilf. minate political, agricultural,
p:nlofophical,;ind oth -r valuable infoimation ;
but that it h is been unijorm/y conduced with tab'
attention, and propriety. If to these important
ohjetts be Tuperatlded the more immediate de
sign of refruing public documents from obli.
vt.m— I will venture to pronounce, as my fen
tirnent, that a more usktul literary
PLAN HAS NEVER BEEN UNDERTAKEN IN
AMERICA, or one HOI K DIintVING OF PCB-
Jone s .
LIC ENCOVRACIMSfJT."
540
War Department,
s4"gujt \jl, 1793.
"INFORMATION is toeicoy given to all (he
X Military Invalids of the United S'ates, that
the sums to which they are iniitkd for fix months
of their annual p< niion, from the 4th day ol
March iaft, and which will become due on the
sth of September n,exf, will be paid on the said
day by the Commiflioiiers of tkc Loans*, with
iu the Sta:§s refpetUvely under the usual regu-
lations.
B* Command of the
President of the United States.
H. KNOX, Secretary at War.
N. B. The Printers in tue refitQive States are
lequejied to py'ohfli the aboxt in their new/papers far
the Jf Ht I'/two month i.
Treasury Department,
Augnjl io, r793.
NOTICE is hereby Riven, that PropoPafs
will bj received at the Office of the Se
cretary of the Trealurv, until the 14th day
of Sjpicuiber next inclufivtly, to furnifli t»y
contrast the following article* of Cloathing,
for the uCe of the United States, viz.
4.830 Hats,
j, 12D Stocks
J, 123 Stock-Clasps,
22,483 Shirts,
5,123 Vests,
j, 123 Coats,
9,633 Woollen Overall*,
9,630 Linen ditto,
19,233 pairs of Shoe:,
9,633 pairs of Socki)
5,123 Blankets,
320 Caps, ,
330 pairs of Leather Breccbes,
643 pairs of Boots,
323 pairs of Spurs,
. 64.0 pairs ofStockings, , .
1,523 Rifle Shirts.
The cloathing to be delivered at the city
of Philadelphia ; one fourth pai tof the whole
number of suits on or before the; 15th of Fe
bruary, one fourth on or befjre the 15th of
April, and the remaining half on or before
the I Jtli of June, 1794.
The articles m lift be agreeably to ftich pnt
terns as fliall be directed by the Secretary for
the Depa tment of War. Payment will be
made as soon as the whole of the articles lhall
have been delivered. ept!4^.
Treasury Department,
August 2 7,1793-
NOTICE if hereby given that proposals will
be received until the 15 h d<jy of October
next, inrlufively, by David l-lenly at Krioxvitle,
111 the Territory South Weft of the Ohio, tor the
flip ply of .i)l r»t-ions which may be require-d for
the use of the United States, tram the firft riav of
January to the thirty-fiift day of December,
1794,-both days inclusive, at the place*, and
w'i:hin the diflri&s heieaiter mentioned, viz.
i„ At any place or places from ihe nvmth of
the River Tent flee to Occochappo or Bear
Creek, on the fa d River iuclufively.
2. At any ptace or places from the moiuh of
the river Cumberland to Naftiville, on the (aid
river, and at Naftiville.
3. Afanv place or places within thirty miles
of said Naftivillc to the southward, weflwatd
or northward thereof.
4. At Bled foe'? Lick, or anv place or places
the said Lick and Naftivillc.
5. At any place or places from Bledfoe's Lick
to the eroding of Cumberland river, along the
new Trace, at or near the great Sal: Lick, and at
the fa:d eroding place over Cumberland river.
6. At any place or places along the said trace,
from the eroding of Cun berla«d river to the
mouth of Clinch river, and at the said mouth of
Clinch river.
7. At any place or places between the said
mouth of Clinch atd Knoxvilie, and at Knox
ville.
8. At any place or places on the north-weft-
e r ti frontiers of Wa(hington and Hamilton ciif
trifls, in the Territory South of the Ohio, from
the month of Clinch to the Virginia line.
9. At any placc or places on the southern
frontiers ofc the said d'iftnfts of Walhington and
Hamilton.
10. At any other place or places in the terri
torv South of the Ohio, not herein mentioned.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the
following articles, vi 7.
One pound of biead or flour,
One pound of beef, or £ of a pound of poik,
Half a jill of brandy, rum or whiiky,
One quart of fait
Two quarts of vinegar y
Two pounds ol soap > P er 100 rat,ons -
One pound of candles )
The ration* arc to be furnifhcd in sucH quan
tities, as that there (hail at all times, during the
said term, be fufficient for the confurnpiion of
the troops at each fort or other (faiionary port,
which is or may b? eftablfhed for the space of
at lead threr m >n*hs in advance, in good and
wholesome provisions, if the fame (hall be re
quired.
It is t<> be undetftood in each caf-, that all
lolfes fullained by the depredations of the ene
mies, or hy means of the troops of the United
States, (hall be paid for at the prices of the ar
ticles captured or dcflroved, on the depositions
of two or more creditable chancers, and (he
certificate of a commiflioned officer, aCcertaining
the circumstances of the loss, and the amount of
the articles for which compensation is claimed.
Thofr who may become propbfers are re
qu fled to transmit without delav io the Secre
tary of the Treasury duplicates of their proposals.
The proposals will he d cided upon at Knox
ville aforefaid, where the said D-vid Henly wtll
make kno mi the offer which is accepted, and
will conclude the contrast.
P L
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DO&SON, CAREY, YOU A'£, & LRUKSIiANK.
A N &
To the Public.
TriE Editor of the Gazettc of tub I'NtTta
Statu, proporevpublilhinß tie Paper,
under that Titje, every Evening, Sunday's
excepted.
To render .t interesting 35 a Daily Publi
cation, it fliall coAvain foreign and doroeftic
commercial and political Intelligence: Et
lays and Obfervatimu, local and'j>erera| :
Maritime in format ion :—Prices Current of
Merchandize and the Public Funds. Aifo a
summary of the proceedings of Congress, and
of trie L:gWlature of this State:—with a
iketcb of CongrelEonal Debates, {Lc.
favors will be gratefully r«.
ceived.
T E R M S.
To be printed on paper of the denjy fitt;
but a larger size (hallbefubftituted in Decem
ber next.
1 l)c prxe Six Dollars per Annum, to he
paid ball' Yearly.
When a fuflcient number of Subfcribcrs is
obtained, the Publication fliull commence.
In the interim, tiie (Gazette will be pub'iiV
cd twice aKveek as bfuat Subscript "tuare
reljjeftfully solicited by the Public's hwnfce
servant,
JOHN FEN NO.
03" Suhfrriptions are recentJ nt the Cil\ Tax em.
South Second Stieet-hy Mr. Dohfon. at' the Stone
Hoitjr.—hy other pcrjvns who are in pofrjion ojjuh.
fcription paper!, and t\ 'the Edits, a( his houji.
Ho. g.j, K'orth Fifth-Street.
THE ED 11,0 R
MOST eai/tfJlr,r:qvtJli those of hi) diflavt S»S.
cfibers who In in arreirsfor the Gazette, to make
payment as footiat perffibtex—Thnje persons i*ho hate
receivedJunjcrifftion money ov his account are dt fired
tot emit titpfwit. The arrearages for the Cazctle
htv: accumulated to uf-rious amount—Serious, as
they are tae ont\ resource to difcharie fitry fetiout
engagement incurred tn the froficutrov of this er
fienjweyiitblicatian. Philadelphia, June 26
Just hurl,'shed.
By Thomas Dobfon,
Smkfdlcr, at the Stone-House, in Second Jireel,
PHI l A j> R I. P H I A , .
VOLUME i\ t of
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
or, a DICTIONARY or ARTS, SC IIi.VCES.
AND MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
Oft a Plan entirely new :
BY WHICH
THE DIFFEI: INT SCIENCES AND ARTS
arc di veiled mtotheForm of
TREATISES on SYSTEMS :
THIS VOLUME CONTAIN?
HYDROSTATICS, Hygrometer, History of
Japan, I .eland, Jcrufalqm, J"ws, India,
Infects, Insurance, Ireland, Italy, Kamfchaika,
Knighthood, L-mgu age, Law, Lp grrclemain,
with a great variety of Biographical and Miscel
laneous Articles.—lliullrated with thirty-one
Copperplates.
CO NDITIOMS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (taftfor the pu pole) which
will be occaiionally renewed before they cots-,
trafl a worn appearance.
11. ihe warJc is fuvn; (hed in hoards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubfc.t ibers chufc; the pnee
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, of the
half.volumes two dol!a»s and two-thirds of a
dollar cach. Ten dollars 10 ne p*id on Tub
fcribmg, ilie volumes or ha.lf-volumra finifKed
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each fucce-dingvolume to be paid on deliver
ing (he volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unlcfs paid for.
111. In the c€*iifcof the publication will be de
li vered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
tar exceed in number those given in any other
fcientific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication v/ill be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It is expected the work will be comprised in
aboutciL r hfe( n volumes in quarto.
The Cubfcription will cotrtmae tm the
above terms till the firft day of September next,
to give opportunity to those who are not yet
lubferibers, to come forward.
Those who have fubfcribert, and got only a
(mail part of the work, are requclled to com
plete their fetls, as fjr at publilhed, as loon'as
pofiible, as alter the firft of next September, by
which time the renth volume is f united to be
ready, the publisher will not conlider himfelf
bound to make up those fctis which are oot
completed up to that period.
Philadelphia, June 19.1793,
Seat of War.
For Sale, at M. CAREY's Start,
No. 118, Market-ill eet,
A Sheet Map of the
French, Austrian and Dutch Netherlands in:
which the progress of the prefa.it, War may
be traced. Price three eighths of a dollar.
And a Map of the Three Northern
ofrFrance, divided into Departments.—
Pt ice \ of a dollar.
Maps of the United
States Any public spirited gentlemen,
felled of materials for correcting and improv
ing the Maps of the several States, will lay
M. Carey under very particular obligations,
by communicating them. He is in immediate
want of some for New-Jer'ey and Delaware $
of which States he is now preparing Maps.
Guthrie's Geography;
The fubfeription for this wo k will be con
tinned open, at the present rate of twelve
dollars, tilt the firft day of November next>
after which, it will be raised to fourteen dol
lars.
Auguf. 14 .
1 ar.