of§
• — —, / •«
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLIS-HI.D WELJMKSDAY.N AND SATURDAYS' FY JO UK FENXO, No. 34, Ni'BfH fIFTH-STH(s£T, ¥HILADfcLPH 1A
[No. 109 of Vol. IV.]
* » -
of the imnZ&STJTES.
THOPCIITS ON TWK
ST\T*E OF AMERICAN INDIANS.
(Continuei jro.n No. 107; of '.hi' Gazette.).
No. IX,
IN the prog' ess of ocietv, the art* naturally
follow agriculture. The. cultivation of
»rts and manufactures requires the joint la-
bar and (kiil of many individual. As they
add nothiiiß to the productive power of the
focist', th?ydepetid upo" the furphls produce
»f the cultivators of the foil for their support.
T ie number of hufbandinen mud become con-
Ittterahle before diftlnft protoiTToni and a divi
fion of labor are neiieflVry. In the early stages
of (bciefey, every family manufactures its own
fceceiTa'us. As society improves and num
bers .uicreafe, a division of employ me nt takes
p} ac —.rtne who is expert in huts,
excNaiges labor with the farmer, and erects
him an habitation \yhile the farmer supplies
him w th sod—another excels in making
cloathes; he of course becomes theger.eraJ
workman for the focietv. Such we may ima
gine to have been the on gin of every profef
fion—the habit of attention acquired by con
fhnt exercise in their refpeftive employ
ments, give them a dexterity and' acutenefs
which kept pace with the improvement of
the fwciety. The arts moil neceiTary to fo
cietv, and which are firft cultivated, are fuck
as relate to the preparation and use of food—
the materials of cloathing—the prodn&ion
and use of metals, and the conftruftnon of
proper habitations. A brief detail of these
j<nece(tary for the illustration ot the
The instruments neceflary to facilitate labor
and render the earth proper for tillage, are
numerous and ingenious, and beyond the at
tainment of savages. . The cultivation of
graia alf(Vrdqitires long experience and much
observation to bringit to perfection—the art
of reducing grain to flour, tins again to
btead, isjlowjy acquired; and the latter must
have cost the experience of ages. Some na
tions at'prefent are not acquainted with the
art of fermenting their paste.
ous liquors also require much experience, and
many rude efTays mud have been made to
render them in any degree palatable. Gar
dening; and the-cultivation and improvement
©P plants and fees, are in like manner of dift
ficidt diCcovery, and remote from the obfer
yat'on of savages.
The r e arts ari r e immediately from the cul
tivation of the foil, and a : e neceflary in a
greater or less degree to the infancy of civil
fbciety.
As fofirr as men proceed beyond the savage
ftate v they for foaiething different from
the of* beads? for defence or ornament.
Eve y step in the art of cloathing is difficult
so a lavage—the raifi.ig of the flax and wool—
the* means of converting fhefe into' thread
and yarn, and the inmvmerab'e gradations in
the procePv of manufaduring these into cloth,
inquire long attention and much ingenuity*
The use of metal* also is of great service
in tfte early stages of society, and greatly ac
eel<* r 3tes the progrefe of refinement; the
methods of procuring them are however dif
ficult, and in a mea'ure unknown to men in
the firft period of society. The d'fcovery of
the ore—the means of extra&ing, refining
andfoging it—the ait of erecting furrraces—
«f procuring fuel, and of contriving machine
ry for the abridgement of tailor—the art of
tem »erUig the metal—the fibricalion of in-
a id indeed the w.hole prucefi of
the work, requires much trnc, much-
tion % and muc'i exper ence, to bring them to
any degree of perfection.
The art of con ft rusting habitations for use
♦r elegance, is a primary ol>je<st of atrention
ki the ea l : eft period of society. Atfirft, like
all othe arts, it mud have been extremely
Tude. The felling of the timber, the contriv
ing and trdjufting the proportion*:, the tools
proper for these purposes, and the whole that
relates to to pa ntingand ornament,
are difficult and imperfect, while the arts of
civilized life are unknown.
Att these arts are neceiTary to the full efta
blilhment of civil society—-they are however
•f difficult invention and flow progress, wtwn
4eft wholly to the rude efforts of uninftrufted
genius.
■ Inexperience, ages elap r ed before they ar
rived at any cimfiderable pe'feftion.—Thefie
arts we have it in ou r power to communicate
tntb* savages ; and by being early introduced
among them, would contribute greatly to their
Advancement towards poMhed manners.
These are the means which appear to me
noli proper to bs employed to bring the In
dians t* tHe knowledge and enjoyment of the
fcteffiwgs of civilization.
Let a plan be contrived that will embrace
the whole of these objects—To inftruft them
fci 'elision—to regulate the inllitution of
marriage—to introduce the notion of private
property, of a fixed residence and agricul
ture*—to furnifli them with the instruments
of art, and to inftruA them in such as arc
">o4 aeceXuy to the iufmcy of foeiety.
Saturday, June 15, *793.
Let ftutable per Tons lie chosen and' r«f)t j
am the i'urntftad with nmteri*]?*]
for tlu' pi?oje(sttd I-Qt a con
nexion be so med between them and t' 9 Uni
ted States, and let it be made their inter eft
to maintain peace with us, and cultivate our
• fri.'ndfhip.
T'var th'efe objects are deferable, I bebeve
none wilLdenv—That - they may be atc.otii
plifhed, we.have fuiriciont encotiragen.c'oi to
warrant an experiment—'that the expence
(hould deter us from attempting if, cannot be
admitted-— the money already expended on
the war* in which we we engaged witn
would well nighfnffice to carry every arvarge
raent I have fu&gefted into effi?:sV. It would
surely redound more to the honor and inteieil
oft be United Srate's to civilize, than to extir
pate them. The attempt is further recom
mended by the consideration that this is the
only way a permanent peace with
them.
Tl.efe ohfer vat loir;. art iiitcpjdsd'o excrre
forne attention to a fuhjeft hitherto not tJHfcek
explored—to remove. fome-niiltake r corceTp'
ing it, and to 'f.r : e to more benevolent fenti-.
mfcrtts towards the Indiahs- They arf dic
tated' by no>parry, foiixd«4 <m> no favorite
hypothesis,, but on general principles of hu
man nature, and such as have served a* the
bails oftfates in former times, and are with
detereiicei'uhmitted to the public, by their
humbleitcrvant, LTCCURGOS.
♦ I v r/k not to be undujhid br tfih, to fay any
thing rcipefling tin jujiicc «r policy of the xuiir in
which we are now engaged with the Indians,
FXOM THE (NEW-YORK). DIARY.
IT Uavcircumffance highly gratifying to eve
ry class of well disposed orderly citizen*,
to fee that.the high executiveaurhority of the
Union, is so well seconded, in his endeavors
to maintain the dignity and peace of this
happy country, by the Chief Magistrate of
the State of New-York. This reflexion arose
front mtbrmatinn received yeflerday fionia
friend* that certain persona here, unmindf«i
of their duty as peaceable citizens, and re
gardless of the confequenc.es. winch might re
sult to the community at large, from thair
raftt conduit, hud equipt for Tea an armed
veffbf, and'procured a commission from the
French Mini ft er, to cruize a gain ft. and cap
ture the property of any of rlrofe nations who
are at war with Fracee, though at p&aC£
with America. My informant further a£
fured me, that as soon as Governor Clinton
had fuificiently afcertainerf the fa&, that
darmg a violation of national faith was a
bout tobe perrenated, through the maihiefs
and" avarice of a-few individuals, with a vi
gilance becomi' g his (fation, and a decision
which lias frequent!)' marked his chai after,
he ordered the* Ibip to be arretted, and cau ed
tliofe persons who had entered on this un»
warrantable, enterprize, to be confined.—
Tnis prudent and spirited conduct ofooru r Go
vernor, I concei him to ihe thanks
of the-people of America, and in a particular
manner, d mands the tefpeftful ackrrowledg
meats .of the citizens of New-York. Many
refpeftable peifons in Philadelphia, sensible flf
the delicate fi f ution of this conn try,. rela
tive considered with the powers at war, have
expredcd to the President of the United States,
their approbation of that Proclamation, on
which the present aft* of our Governor is
founded. I submit therefore with all defer
ence to the citizens of New-Yo<k > whether
an address to-his Excellency Governor Clan
ton, expressive of our resolution to aid him it
neceflarv, by every means in our power, to
preserve the reputation- of the city, and to
maintain inviolate the neutrality proclaimed,
and to decla e our entire approbation of the
manner, by which, he has been pleased to put
a (top to an ast, at once fQ unadvTed, auda
cious and illegal. A CITIZEN-
From the BALTIMORE DAILY REPOSITORY.
Messw Printer*,
I WISH through the mcJ um of your use
ful paper, to communicate to the public
the following humane and heroical action ot a
vouiTg man of my acquaintance. It refle<sts
much honor on the yornig man ; and is highly
to tvetv generous heart, particu
larly to the members of the Humane Society.
On the evening of Sunday, 6 negroes, viz.
3 men, 1 bov, and 2 women, were in a canoe
the river Salfafrai; suddenly the canoe
funk. Only ore of the poor unhappy negroes
could fwini so as to save his life. The other
five must inevitably been drowned, but for
the noble exertions of Mr. Samuel Councell,
who, with fevera] others was providentially
on board a veflel, which lay in the river, in
fight of the canoe when lh« funk. This yonng
man was the only one of the whole company,
who through humanity and feeling fur th*
unfortunate blacks, braved all danger to re
lieve them. He at the dreadful light dipt off
his coat, jumped overboard with the refl:
bis clothes and Ihoes on, swam to their assist
433
f ■< ~
+ it v\?j * rare*iu«» i
bi>y wai drowned » ha ,n«vjr
•emeige^asricouid*i«t be f.ranA Mr> Couiir
celj neiiiy lo.£ Ijis life* in this 'undertaking.
■ He laid I'tn* 3 men on the canoe which wai
keel Y'hilft employed in elTeftii.g
tni>5 T the It wo.r.rn who M'ere alinoft drowned,
i seized hi;n by the {hirt, and dagged him un
der water. £ttt-he)\:and ireaits £0 difengaj-e
. Imnfeifj.then catching rtiem aga-iri,, he, held
them'up with ore-hand, and with the orher
feiztd the canos ; remaining in that pofn ion
tf !1 two oth?r canoe* cams to his afl'tttance,
•ml-carried-- him- with - M«- trophies, fate on
fciare. The anlheotic.ty i»f this mav b» de
peifdmi o;j. A Coiifiunt
university of Pennsylvania
IT Iras hitherto been the practice of this Se
minary, as it was all along the pvattice
both oi'tfte Old College»aml of the Old Uni
versity, to examine the feveralj rolls, once ai
week J—and on every <uch occasion, to levy
fines, except corporal punishment was
Id beinlffAH, on such of'the, Students, as,,
doniij the preceding week, had* been either
lxt»in their attendance, or abil-nt altogether,,
at any .particular feiTiou :
Bitf v .this fva&ice, however good the de
sign with which it wcs was found,
to be attended with Tome inconveniences.
Thecolle&ion of so* many petty fines was
both trouHlefome and* degrading to the Pro-.
felFors. Neither, after all, could the iropo
fition of thcfe fines be expected to pr oduce
the desired efFect : for, if coni'de* able* they'
operated rather as a tax upon the parents,
than as punifliment on the boys; and, it in
con tide rabie, were but too apt to be dif:e
garded.—And, as to corporal punifbrwenty the
the infl.tflion of it so frequently, and in so
public a manner* could Tu»t but tend to wear
out,that ingenuous fen'e of fhanie and regard
to chara&er, which it is one gieatend ofedu
cation to cherish and promote :
At a- meeting, therefore, of the faculty,
held April i#, 1793» it was unanimously re
fnlved,
'«* That ail fines and corporal pumfhments
for atterrding late, or being absent altogether,
at any particular feiQon t< shall be abolilhed '•
feoondly, that, on their ft Wednesday
o£every month, there (hall bf held-a meeting
of tjie ffcveral profaffops and tutors, for the
pu'pofe of examining the. general roll* and
comparing their federal particular rolls;
when,an accurate statement of the attendance
and. behavior of each (Indent during tllfc pre*
ceding'month, (hall be made out, and pre fenc
ed to.his patents or guardians."
faculty confide, that by thus, extend
ing, as it were,, the authority of parents and
guai dians, there will be the less need for the
exertion of other authority ; and that the
apprelienfion of this monthly notice will be found
to have at 1 tuSt as 'ninth influence on the
minds of their pupils, as the apprebenfion of
the weekly fines ar;d puniflimentt weie found
to jjave formerly.
Pub'ifhed tor the information of the pa
rents and guardians of the students and fcho-
Vin at i t Un-iverity •*
By order of the Faculty ;
WILLIAMS ROGERS, Sif'ry r
Philadelphia, Ju»e 11, 1793*
'foreign Intelligence.
STOCKHOLM, March 29.
BAFON ARMKELD f , the Swed
i(h Ambafl'adftr in Italy, has re
ligned all his military appointments.
The departure of Count Stackel
berg, the Rulfisn Ambaft'ndor, will
speedily take place : and rhis No
bleman will speedily be succeeded
bv ( ount Romanzow, hitherto Mi
nifterofthe Einprefs at Frankfort.
Btfides the regi.meut< which late
ly received orders to march, that of
Jonkoeping, confiding of 1100 men,
lias received orders to hold iilcll in
readiness.
J his circumftnnce, to which may
be added the continual palling of
coin iers between this city, Copen
hagen and Peieilburg, gives ns tea
foa to conjeti tire, that foiue grand
projects are planned.
1 he armament at Cai'fcrone is
fhordy to be incieafed.
His Mpjelly was accepted as a Free
Itfafon, on die aad inft. in the-Grand
Lodge of this city : the Duke Re
gent presided as Grand Mailer.
' The Duke Regent, to give a tok
en of his elleem to Sir Sidney Smith,
an Englifbtnan. who feived as Col.
in our fleer during the last war, has
determined to fend as a prcfent >0 Sir
[Whole No. 43. j .]
Sidney, a •nnfte-rly pon rait of Charles
XII. pointed by Kiofifl.ii Kraft.
DA N T Z l t, April a
In coufcqueiice of ihe preliminary
capitulation agreed on betv*een nor
Magiiit rates, and' Lie uterin hi. General
Von Baniner, the I'ruflian
took poH'eflinti of the gates, and' ad
vanced works of tilts foi'ti ei'a on the
37th of March.
During this surrender, a part of
the gariifan of Dantzic revolted.
Supported by the mob, they iwok
poilefiion of the inner ramparts,and
discharged their cannon and ("mall
arms at the P ruffian troops.
The infurrertjon was quelled in
a few hours, with tlie lots of 14 u>*n
killed on both fides.
The ,apprehension of' il»e ring
leaders, aui-rf a'.her falurary
tions, haweeffecfted'a complete reWo
.lariion of rr*i"»!»jititj"ty."' "
We have iw>thirig> w> ftar'tven
froni;the furrentler of the ciry. »t
---felf, which is fotlhw in. a tfelw
days, becaufi* thei gnita have been
removed from theaj/idbn rampitrtts,
*ndt he P<*lifli. garrison isu compl'eie
ly dif*riinerli.
The Royal canuiuffion is dusty ex
pected fronv Berlin, f6r tihepurpofe
of making freftr, civil' ati 4 commer
cial regulations.
P A &•
The posture of atfai ra on our fron
tiers ij hourly becoming more and
mote encouraging. PunicHirier is
nearly abandoned, and the diffl-reuE
corps of the northern at my are ra
pidly organizing into an. invincible
phalanx. The traitor in his flight
had a narrow elcape from, the tij.e
of several batr-alions,; his hoife
was killed under him, and one of
his aid de-camps fell by his fide.—
All the heavy artillery is ret unveil
Pafe to Valenciennes, and all the
provision, stores and ammunition to
Douay. The fortified towns on ilie
frontier are i.u tlie hell pofliblcltate
of defence agaiiift the attacks, of
any force whatever, and in a very
fllort time, from the exertions that
are making, will be proof to the
most iibltinate ficge, and provided
with every neceti'ary for a grca,r
length of time j while t lie enemy are
in an exhausted country, and must
bring every breaktaft they make
some hundreds, of miles. Thus, it
is to be hoped, the check that tres»«
foil has effected on us, will only
serve in the end to disgrace the trai
tors. who perpetrated it ; and it v ill
be 110 small advantage to.the repub
lican cause, if this event qures thjr
French of their extravagant
tjy for individuals, and that filly
proj>eufiiy toenthufiiftic admiration
of their leaders, upon every tranf?-
ent gale of success- Ignorant or ill
disposed people do our cause im
mense harm, conilantly spreading
alarms and apprehensions on the
(late of our affairs, which have ft fa
tal effect at a diilance. Recruiting
is going on rapidly, and difciplinfe
enforcing. Our enemies well know
that France can never fall but by
an illdiretfted application of its
strength. On the 6th instant, after
evacuating Malines, an immense ba
ilie of property arrived fafe into
Douay, to fay, 90 pieces of cannon,
7,50 c mufquets of the firft quality,
2,000 pieces of small cannon with
firelocks, 3,0001b5. vvt. of copper, a
vail quantity of artillery imple
ments, and lastly a mo-tar that was
burst in the bombarding of Litte,
which the new comi.iillior.ers onth#
frontiers have oideied back to that
place, in the name of the reprefe-m
tatives of the nation, which in their
opinion will be a moil acceptable
prelent to the people of Lisle, w bos«
firmriefs and courage once Caved the
republic, and will save it again.LONDON, Apr!! 19
The Count D'Artois is arrived at
Peiei fburgh, w hire the Einpi els has
lodged him in her palace, given him
a houthold guard, ike.
The ciiy of Liege has paid the
contribution of 600,000 florins, of
which luiii ihe Prince of bjxe Co
bourg has fem 76,00u doilais to the
Duke of IJrunfwick.
I he Fernigs, two female warri
ors, and z^idn-de-Camp to Dumou
rier, have followed the fortunes of
that Genera).
Tlie Count de Merci is every day
expeifted in London 011 a secret em
baU'y from the Emperor— I lie fend
ing t his gentleman at the piefent
crisis, while there is an Impeiial
Alinitter jt our Court, occauons a
good deal of conjecture among poli
ticians, as to the object of his mis-
It Appears pi obabletbar the Count
ieHerci't embally to this Couit,
is on one or other of these motives ;
or probably on both :—
In arrange 1 he plan of operations
of the army under the command of
his Royal Highnel's the Duke of
York : and whether it is to aifl se
parately, or under ihe orders of the
Prince de Cobourg ; or 2dly, what
is (till more likely, to negociate
with our ministry, whether in cafe
the French Netherlands«ate reduc
ed by the Auflrian forces, the Em
peror (hall be allowed to retain pof
fellion of these after the war.
The conqued of the French ne
theriands will ensure 'that of the
Province of Picardy.
When the Duke of York failed
for Holland, his orders were to re
main at a fniall diliance from the
place of landing, to obfeive the mo
tions of the Dutch. If they did not
(hew ttrong fyniptoms of vigour and
resolution, it was nor judged expe
dient to risk the facritiee of the
(guards to the defence of an ally,
who were fufpetfted of inactivity in
(heir own cause. On a sagacious
enquiry, the Duke found that Dort
had scarcely 200 men to defend it.
He concluded, that if WilliamftaJt
surrendered, the former could not
prevent, in its weak state of de
fe nee, the enemy from marching to
Rotterdam. Using, therefore, adi f
cretion in whicl), perhaps, the fare
of Holland depended, he marched
to garrison Dort ; a mealure which
inlpired the gallant defenders of
Willianiftadc, and had an eleilrical
effect on the councils and conduct
of the Dutch.
On the 6tli of April the members
■of the Sovereign Council of Brabant
were reinftared with great cerCnio
no in all their fundlions.
On this occalion, the Count de
Metternich Winnebourg,- Minister
Plenipotentiary from his Imperial
Majesty, addrelfed them in a long
and a very popular difcourle, in
he promised " to revive the
happy reign of Maria Theresa ; but
he at the fame time recommended
that they would abjure the spirit
of party, and make a liberal and in
ftamaneotis provision by way of in
demnity for such Citizens as had e
vinced their attachment totheCon
ftitution."
After this, his Excellency ftiewed
ed him felt at the balcony to the
people, \jy whom lie was received
amid It t he most joyous acclamations.
Of finglilh now at Paris; are Mr,
Merry the poet, Miss H. M. Willi
ams. Mr Stone, Tom Paine, kc.Scc.
.Darnpierre, the French General,
resided some time in England, and
was known as the devotedeuamora
ra of the Dowager Lady R d n.
Ke was the fir ft Frenchman who
made a voyage in a balloon, at Ly
ons, fonte years since.
It is said, that when the deputies
of the convention were sent to M.
de Gallon, the leader of the infur
gents of Brittany, demanding of
him, whether he had taken arms
for or againfl the republic, he re
plied, " If 1 had conducted myfelf
like those who have sent you hiiher,
I Arnold have had you hanged upin
llantly, without any form of trial ;
but I will nor thus disgrace an ho
notable cause ; we ha\e only taken
arms to purge France of the villains
who despoil her, and we will not
Jay them down till thefefhall be de
ftroyed. Depart jndnntly, <Snd in
form the tyrants l; f Paris, the
heads i.t iiie municipal officers and
adminilirators, vyljicU are in our
hands, /Lali answer for the fafety
of ihnfe petlons arfached to our
caofj, whom ihe convention hpve
put in letters."
Were a foreigner to etrter'any of
onr places of public ainufeiiifiu, he
would consider lis as the mod proli
fic naiion on earth. There is not a
female of eleven to a tabby of lixty,
w ho does not appear in the different
(lages of pregnancy ; bur how Would
it fuiprizea lti auger to be told, tbat
this flrange appeal ance of future
population procetdi totklTV frflffll —
the Staymaker.
FRANCE
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
111 the fitting of the t Itli itift-. the
following addref> was pnefen'ed, in
the name of the feiSion des tfalles :
" Citizens ! weai ecome to speak
truth to you j we trull you will noi
make it necellary for us to speak to
you again. Hitherto our petitions
lie buried in thole committees,
where the guilty (it for the purpose
ofdecelving )ou wiiii artful reports;
when an honelt man wishes to claim
your attention,his voice is drowned.
" We come this day to prefeiit
you with a petition from the 48 fee
tions, which is exprelfive of the
willies of all France. Hear us tlien
for the lalt time. The nation is
wearied ; it is tired with beholding
peifidious representatives ; it wi/hes
that the traitors Ihould be given up
to the sword of the law. Had you
punished Dumotirier when he per
mitted the Pruilian despot to escape
in the plains of Champaigne Had
you not protected the faction which
seconded the pi ojei'ts of that traitor,
you would not this day hear the
people of Belgia and Liege acctifing
the French with barbarity. Roland
has been guilty of a thoufaud faults ;
yet he lives to concert new crimes.
Look which wav we will, traitors
present themselves to our view.
Our armies are commanded by Ge
nerals and Officets named by Bour
nonville. The tribunes judge Hone
guilty, but set them at liberty.
1 wenty times you have pr'oiWtfed
ns a precile law against stock Job
bing, ye- no law for that purpoTe is
yet enacted. Are you then the pro
testor of monopolilts ; or do you
hr>pe that the people by the know
ledge of their grievances will de-
Iniand of you a mailer ? No ! the
people will perish if it must be so,
under their miseries, but they will
not perilh without firft feeing the
deftru<ftion of all intriguers.
" You have sent into the depart
ments the molt patriotic commilfion
ers, by which means we now per
ceive a corrupt majority deciding
the fate of France. Unfortunate
country ! You wilhed to call forth
thole who could defend you, arid
have named those who live but to
injure yon !
" We demand, lit, A decree <if
accusation against Roland. 2d, Tfiat
the administration of the poft-olfice
be renewed. 3d, That all guilty
deputies be decreed in a ftatepf at
cufation,&c. Men of the Mountain!
It is to y :>u we address ourselves ;
save the republic. If you imagine
you have not force enough, to ac
complrfli Ihe talk, we trust you will
have courage to tell us To, and we
will undertake the care,of our Sa
viour."— [Applaufts jrom the Mou>i
tain followed the reading of this ad
dress.']
Danton demanded that honorable
mention (hould be made of it A
tuidult ensued. The Prefider.r' put
on his hat ; and Danron addreffinff
him (elf to the Valley, said, " r««
are- all villains [Applauses fr o m
the Mountain and the Tribune. }j.
Petion said that the address from
the fe<fiion des Halles tended todifc
solve the Convention, and to confide
the fafety of the republic to a par
ty, who breathed nothing but rob
bery and murder. Behold, cried
he, how they inflame the people !
[Tis ynu who inflame them ex
claimed many v„,V es ] Petion con
eluded by demanding, that the Pre
itdent and Secretary 0 f the fettion
434
des HaMes be Tent to the b.ir ; ihaf
they I'nould declare the names of
those who had signed the addiefs,
and in cafe they avow the signa
tures, that they be feut to the revu-
Iptionary tribune.
Uanron—'' Jt is inconteftibly true
that yon have no right to expeJt
more wifdoin from the people than
you yourselves lhew. May not the
people experience a patriotic deli
rium ! Is not this tribune itfelf, be
come an amphitheatre for gladia
tors ' Have I not been beset and
threatened ? Consider the nature of
the paflions which /bould agitate a
great people during a revolution ;
Consider yourfelves,and pronounce.
This is the species of argument i
addiefs to Petion, and which ] have
often before offered to the Conven
tion. If you delibera:e on the ad
diefs of the fedtion des Halles, de
liberate likewise on that of Mar-
Teilles. Recoiled! that the lawlhould
be the fame, whether to protect or
topunifh. Instead ofamufing your
selves in the rectifying of political
errors, labor for the conltirurion
and the happiness of the people.
" I demand the previous quefli-
oil.''
After a violent debate, Petion'#
motion was adopted.
Cambon from the Committee of
fafety, proposed that Monge should
be removed from his place, as the
Minister of Marine, and that Dalba
ret (hould be appointed to succeed
him. Decreed unanimously.
The Afl'einbly decreed, ilt, That,
to the number of counter-revoluti
onary attempts, the provocations to
the re establishment of royalty
(liould be added.
ad, That the Executive power do
forthwith give the neeeffary orders,
conformable to (he law of the 7(h
of the present month, that the cri
minal tribunal of the department
of the north, should fend, without
delay, to Valenciennes, and to the
other places in the jurifdi<3ion to
which they belong, to be there judg
ed definitively, all arrangements a
gainst those who fought the re-elta
blifhment of royalty, or were guilty
of counter-revolutionary commoti
ons, and to pronounce againll them
jhe punilhmenrs derided by the law
of the loth of March latt, and in the
forms prescribed by the law !
3d, The criminal tribunals of all
the departments of the Republic
are equally charged to proceed 111
the fame manner.
April 12
On the proposition of Cambon,
from the committee of public fafe
ty, the Convention decreed, "That
provocations to the re ettablifoment
of Royalty is another coonrer-revo
luuonary crime ; and ihofe found
Ruilry of it frail fufFer dcaili. 2 .
That the fame punishment shall be
iufliifted on every individual who
shall vary the price of merchandize
because fold for affignats. 3. The
exportation of gold or silver from
the territory of France, besides the
pnnifhment now ordered by law,
ftiall be further pun ifhed by a fine
of not less than 2000 livres. 4. Ev
ery person who shall refufe to take
afliguatsin pay ment, fliall be forced
to it, artd be fubjecft to a fine to the
amount of double the sum refufed.
La Haye read a letter by which it
appeared, that on the 22d of March.
Egalite patted through Sez under
the name of Fecamp, who is one of
his stewards. He asked tJie .land
lord, at whose ho life he put up,whe
ther Egalite was beloved in that
Canton, and whether the people
would like to fee him King. From
thence Egalite went to Alencon,and
a few days afier there was a violent
inluri ec'tion at that place.
The Convention decreed, that
tqur Commiflioners should be nam
ed by nominal appeal, tngotoSez,
and find out the track of Egalire's
journey ; to rake depositions, and
bnng >h^g„il t y before the Revolu
tionary Tribunal.
On the other hand it was announc
ful -A at r rebels w ere matters of
the tfland of St. Gilles and Noir .
momie," ; were in great force on
hat a°H k l ° Nam " ! ar > ll
that a detachment of National in
antry, destined to protest a convoy
of provisions, had halted in a town*
in onler ro pluo.ler J r ,
we, c lake., by the rebels, Ull j
pi iloneis with their convoy 4
In tfee fiuingof.he ,
was read ,» ,|, e Nationul'conv "
con from Gen. CulHne ; in whi "
he complains very bitterly of , .
contradictory orders he has re Ceiv #
ed, and of the want 0 f discipli ne
the French an„ lM . He , ej j
Convention that nothing fa „ fa , e
the Republic, hut to place the who!
executive power it. the hands of
one man; that if the Convention
will entroft him with that ~o*er0 * er ,
will undertake to sav e lhe R '
lie ; tf it will not, hedefites to ha Ve
his fuccettor appointed. Differing
from Dutnourier, he obl'ei v e .i ,1.-
should a King be proclaimed he
will instantly emigtate fiom',i ie
country.
DUBLIN, April 10.
The progress of pliilofophy, libe
rality, and union, was lait night
evinced here in a manner which
mil ft affect every patriotic
with the molt pleasing emotions.-.
On account of the C at hoi ic.bilj hav.
ing received the royal aflent, very
fpJendid and general illumination*
rook place in almoii e«ery haufeoc
cupied h_v a Proreftanr overtheciiv
NotwithfVanding the happinetf
this as well asthecaufe
of it, must have afforded the Catho
lics, they with a dignified modelly
which does them the higheit honor),
exhibited no public mark of rejoic
ing whatever.
Some contemptible hacks, taking
advantage of the occasion, wished
to deprive the Protellants df the ho
nour which this a<ft refletfs upon
them, by ascribing it i 0 anorlier
motive, viz. That of joy 011 account
of the vile (lory of Dumonrier's
ret giverfation—but t his must appear
evidently absurd as a set of Right
Hon. Gentlemen, high in the coiifi.
dence of adminiliration ; enemies
to Catholic emancipation (paiticu
larly one near the Ca(Ue} had their
houses gloomy as Erebus.
April 20. Of all the forms of go.
vernment, the Ariftocratical it uiofk
to be dreaded. 111 a despotic in a.
narchy, the dangers and inconvenN
ence may be always feenand avoid,
ed ; but the other is a maiked bat
tery, which in a moment overturns
the liberty of the fnbjedt—unpre
pared and unresisting. Ji can be
maintained only by subordination,
perjury, spies, infermers, ferret im
prisonments, secret executions, rack
and tortures ; besides, once in two
or three centuries, the firft might
possibly produce an Augulhis or a
Titus, but whoever heard of a-vir
tuous Aristocracy ?
Died at Cottage, near Longford,
after a fliort illness, IWifs Charlo te
Brooke, daughter of Counsellor
Brooke,* a yo-unglady, the brillian
cy of whose geuius could only be
equalled by the purity of her piety.
In her, Ireland has loft an orna
ment, and the widow and the fa
therlefs a friend. Her " Reliques
of Irish Poetry" are well known to
all lovers as elegant literature, and
her "School for chiiftians" will
ever hold a diftinguiflied rank a
inong those books which are best
calcillaied to promote the truth of
the Gospel. In the edition of her
father's works, which {he publifbed
in 1792, (he has railed a monument
to his genius, and to her filial af
feifiion. At paflage, Mrs. Judith
Parker, aged 100 yearK
* Author of the Fool of Quality, &<. &c.
Grenada, May 2.
Monday the ship Cnlipfo, of 40 guns, belong
ing to commodore MalVo's fquaoron, arrived
here on private bufinrfs, the nature of which
has not transpired. She failed again on Tues
day night.
The la Firme, of 74 guns, now commanded
by Monf. Malvo, passed by this day, running
close in ftiore, accompanied by the schooner
mounting 16 guns, which was heie a few days
since.
St. J O H N's (Antigua) May 21.
Major General the Honorable Thomas B'uce,
at pre ft xu in Baibados, is, we are told, apppint
ed commander in chics of his Majclty's troops,
in the Lcward 1 Hands,, in the room of major
Gen. G'lyicr, who, it is said, intends for En
gland, the beginning of July, where he will re
ceive those matks of honor and attention, which
his late valiant conqneft of Tobago entitle him
to. —We are also informed that Coi. Myers, is
appointed Quarter*M liter-General.1*
United States.
AUGUSTA, May 11
On Friday the loth inft. Mr. Peter Gefe
ijeaux, one of the party which went out under
the command of Col. Stewart, frpni Liberty
County, in pursuit of a party of Indians who
had taken awaynine negroes from Mr. Smith,
Was killed by thel'e Indians, over the Alata
jnaha ; four of Col. Stewart's party, among
whom was the unfortunate young gentleman
above-mentioned, having left the main body
in order to return, were fired on, when Mr.
Geredeaux fell and wasfcalped—Col. Stewart
returned on hearing the report of the gun,but
could not discover the lavages.
Last Sunday morning, the Post-rider was
thrown from off his horse, about jo miles be
low Augnfta. The horse ran about J miles
• through the woods, and although tracked from
the road to the place where he stopped, the
mail which was dropped could not be found ;
however diligent search was made that and
the next day—lt is to be apprehended some
dishonest person must have taken up and con
cealed it, from the hope of reward.
CHARLESTON, June 3.
The Grand Inquest for the diftrift of
Charleston, for the May leflion, 1793, present
■Us a grievance and oppieffion, the practice of
inagiftrates receiving fees from perl'ons pro
secuting offences and injuries, on behalf of
the state ; as it may tend to a prevention of
ledreft, and the du- adininiftration ofjuftice,
unlels those who are injured (many of whom
can ill afford it) can have rediefs free of ex
pence : and recommend that this prelentment
be laid before the legislature and puhlifhed.
John Mitchell, Foreman,
B O S T O N, June 8.
the.CircMit Cijui tof the United
Statis Opened in this town : When the Hon.
Judge Wili'on delivered to the Grand Jury,
a Charge, replite with the purest principles of
our Government, and highly indicative ofhis
legal reputation. After the Charge, the Rev.
Dr. Thacher addrefTed the throne of Grace,
in prayer,
ALEXANDRIA, June 8.
MeJJrs. Priuteri,
HAVING obtaiped a copy of the circular
letter from I "the'departirfetit of the Treafuiv,
refpecfing the (hips of war and privateers of
France, I.fend it to you for. publication— By
giving it a place in your paper, you will -pro
bably prevent much raifconceptipn and mif
reprefentaifion. I must confefs that* I feel no
small degree of indignation to tee many peo
ple wantonly cenf'uring the conduct of the
Executive in this instance, being at the tame
tinte'fcotirely unacquainted with every cir*
cujnftance that gave i ife to it, and of every
prijiciple upon which it is jultifiable. They
arg eternally insisting upon-a ft rift neutrality,
♦ntfappear to poilefs no definite conceptions
of'tTie true meaning of the term. Would it
be an obfei vance of the principle of neutra
lity, with reipeft to France, to diflegard a
treaty at the very firft occasion which could
polfibly demand an observance of it? If
France had never been engaged in war, the
17th end 22d articles would have beenjife
lefs. But as the period has arrived, which
calls for the execution of the engagements
ltipu'ated in those articles, would it not a
mount to an unequivocal declaration of War
with France, to rejirft the validity of them.
I tiling it would be proper to publiih the
two articles in question—Aster which I shall
be much surprized to lee one man of solid.un
derstanding disapproving of a rigid adherence
to thein 00 the part of America. A.B.
(CIRCULAR.)
Treasury Department, May 30, 1793.
Si*,
IT being the opinion- of the executive, that
there is no geoeral law of tbe land, prohibit
ing the entry and sale of goorfs captured by
foreigri powfers at war—and consequently tbat
such entry and sale are lawful; except in
cales where a prohibition is to be found in
the treaties of the United States—
It becomes the duty of this Department to
make known to you, that the entry of veflels
captured and brought into our ports by the
ships ot war and privateers of France, and of
their cargoes, is to be received in the fame
manner, under the fame regulations,and upon
the lame conditions, as that of veflels and
their cargoes which are not prizes—One of
thefa conditions is, of course, the payment or
securing the payment of the duties'impoled
by law on goodi, wares and merchandile im
ported, and on the tonnage of ships and vef
lels.
But the fame privilege will not extend to
»ny ol the other belligerent powers, being
contrary lo the 17th and 22d articles of our
Treaty with France. I a m, &c.
Art. '7. It Avail be lawful for the (hips of
war of either party, and privateers, freely to
carry whitherfoaver they pleate, the Ihips
" go<KK taken front their enemies, without
oeing obliged to pay any duty to the officers
®l the adm.ralty or any other judge.: nor
* fuel) prizes be arrcfted or leized when
*Ky come to and enter The ports of either
P»rty; nor fh-ill the '"earchers or other offi
cers ot thole learch the .fame, or make
examinari.. n concerning the lawfulnefs of filch
P «■% ut they may boift fail at any time,
c " r . y ,h ° ir p,a
xpreflid in their coinmiflions, which the
r,~l! rS o(r "< h ftipt of war fall be ob
"(fcfi",' °-' "' e .«T.trary, no (helter or
fball h "* g ' Ven the ' r P~ irtS t0 ruch as
fca 1 have made.prize of the fnbjefts, people
fuch'o^i? 7 either the parties; but if
come '«> being forced by stress of
eatner, or the danger of the sea, 'all proper
eans ihall be vigorously ui'ed, tiiat'they go
outbid retire from tbe'uce as ioou as pplli-
Art. 22. It/hail not be lawful for any
oreign privateers, not belonging to fubjefts
o tle most Chriflian King, nor citizens of the
ai United States, who have commissions
i orn any other prince or state in enmity with
eit er nation, to fit their iliips in the ports of
either the one or the other of the aforefaid
parties, to fell .what they have taken, or in
any °ther manner whatioever to exchange
their Ihips, merchandise, or any other lading;
nC ii e> i they be allowed even to purchaie
victuals, except such as (hall be necessary for
their going to the next port of that prioce or
tate troin which they inay have eolnmif
lions."
Norfolk, jnnc 5
At a meeting of the (landing committee of the
Republican Socjbtv of Norfolk and Pojif
niouth, on thegrl 0 f June, 1793,
Resolved, That it is the opinion of this
Committee, ihat the Declaration, compri
lng an expofiuonof the- fetilimrnts and princi
ples upon which this Society has been formed,
be published the Norfolk Papers.
DECLARATION.
WE, the under fig ned citizens, declare as
our Unalterable opinion", that the bleffmgs of a
jun, nv.ld, and equitable government can only
be perpetuated by that puiefpirit of Republican
vigilance to which (under favor of the Supreme
Governor of the Universe) we owe our prcfent
political ease, tranquility and happiness.
" That l^e inattention which manv of our
fellow-citizens discover towards the deareit
rights, privileges and immunities of freemen, is
to us matter of serious concern and regret.
" 1 hat the exccllenre of a mild representa
tive government (affording an examph of the
happiness of equal liberty) will excite jealoufics
in the minds, and be painful inthe fight of ty
rants and their abettors : it does therefore be
hove men, who ate experiencing the blcfling* of
freedom, to be ever on the watch to guaid a
gaii.ft the machinations of those enemies to man
kind.'
" That the imaginary fecu'rity into which
we have been lulled, by our remote fmiation
trom the combined del'pois of Europe,' and
other conji derations, may havq the mod fatal ten
dency ; il not to eieilroy our independence as a
nation, at lead to sap the foundation of that glo
nous fabric upon which our liberties reft
our free and excellent conjlitution.
" That it becomes Republicans at all times
to Ipeak their fentimenu freely and without re
fcrve ; but more particularly at this alarming
pci iod when we behold the Tyrants of the world
combined, and every engine of despotism em
ployed in making a grand effort to crush the
infant spirit of Ireedom, recognized by our
brethren of Fiinee; whose virtuous exertions
(in a caute so lately our own) we cannot a* men,
and as Republicans, behold with ind ffe/encr,
or contemplate without a mixiure of sympathy
and admiration.
"That it is a truth, not less notorious than it
is to be lamented, that in the bosom of our
cournry we have men whose principles and fen-
timents are opposed to all free governments,
and that such are ju£l obje£ls of suspicion.
" That ltrongly impressed with these fer.ti
menti, we have conceived it to be our interejl,
but more particularly our duty, to lorm this
AfTociarion, for the puipofe of ftrengthcmng
the bands of Union, and of cherishing republi
can feniiments, manners, morals .and affec
tions."
N E W-Y O K K, June 1,
, Yeftefday arrived the. Qiip Ann and Catha
rine, Capl. Pearce, in from Newry.
She brings no newspapers—the Captain having
given ihi m alt to the Captain of a Britilh vessel,
whom he spoke with ai sea, bound to London,
from which port (lie had been. 18 months
Capt. Piarce Hates that he palled through a fleet
of 30 fail, of Englilh vcflcls, in the Irilh than..'
ml, with 12 regiments on board, who were des
tined to make an attack on favor
the ariilocratic party in France.
Philadelphia, June 15.
L'EMBUSCADE.
Extrafl of a letter from an officer of the
a gentleman in tJiii city, dated New-York, June
1 793-
44 My Friend,
" I embracc this opportunity to inform you,
tbat we left the Capes of Delaware on the ;th
inOant, bound on a ciuize, and on t)te 8 h took
the brig Catharine, from Jamaica bound to
Philadelphia.
44 We had no sooner manned our prize, than
we saw a large ship '.o leeward, and gave chace,
but foondifcovering that (he was a large two
dctkcr, put about ; and night coming on, loft
fight of her.
44 On the ioih, as wc were (landing in for
the land, at two o'clock :n the morning, saw
two lights, which we immediately gave chace
to, and when within gun ihot, found ihem to be
two large fliips at anchor in 10 fathoms, with
each a light on her poop—and as we kept f»-
lent, and they did not appear tw fee or hear us,
we coniinued c'.ofe in shore, and ai o'clock
we saw another large (hip about 2 leagues to
leeward —(he gsve chace to us. We judged her
to be a foity gun (Kip, and knowing there were
five men of war on tße coast, and two within
ten league s of us, did not think it prudent to en.
gage her. At 11 o'clock we anchored befoie
the city of New-Yoik."
Fx trad of a letter fiom New-York, June 11.
44 The Embufcade arrived heie yesterday and
saluted the city with 15 guns, which was re
turned fioin the battery. She waschsfcd in by
two Eng'ifh ships of 40 and 50 guns, who, I
hear, arc determined to cruize off the coast till
(he goes our a_»ain.
41 Several fcuf!>s hive taken place in (his city
between (he Engltfh and Frcnch sailors."
435
| A gentleman wlio left New York on Mow-
I ■» ay fnornihg last, gives us ti.e following ac-
I P°unt of a recent tranfaftion in that city
j .A liiia-1 vellel had been witinn a few \*eeks
I mtcU out io the poit! of New-York, laid to he
intended on a trip to Charitftoi., and not till
vitJin a few hours -of her failing did Oie
alltime the appearance of a piivatcer. On
Saturday evening, between the hours cf nine
t" H n > I>e took in her guns and ammunition,
x tie Ua/or being informed of the circum
commU"'Cated it to the Governor,
W <W" they both, with laudable zeal, and ac
conjpßnied by some officers of the peace, pur
'qedjhe veflel, which had fct fail, overtook
ner a,,d brought her back. Our informant
WrtpKfver" * BUard ' 34 he croired the
. M. wijl repeat hi*experiment
wurf the Parachute, for the last time, on>ion
ay next, at pail 6 o'clock in the evening, at
his Rotunda in Chefnut-ftreet. Tickeis, at half
a doilar, may be had at Mr. Ocl/ers' Hotel.
TJ'f'Jiyly papers announce the completion of
»re Subfaiption, to the Bank of Pennlylvania—
the: cr.iiens having taken all the (hares allotted
to them, amQuntipg to 2000.
The Legislature of New.Jersey has adjourned
to meet again at Trenton in Ottober next.
At the Theatre in Charleston, S. C. the Turn of
3001. 13s. gH. was received for the benefit of the
Orphan-House in that city.
The Corpoiations of the citiesof Trenton »nd
Bur.ingtbn, a'll H the Convention of the Protes
tant fcpifcopat Church of Nrw-Jeifey, have pre
sented AddrcflVs to his Excellency Richard
Howell, Klquire, on his election at Governor
ot rhat Stale.
The grand Jury of the Circuit Court of the
Untied States tor the Southern Dillrift, held -at
Savannah, April term, 1793-hdve prefenicd at
gr-KvanCe«, The non-compliance of the
of the treaty made with
'rf m 1?' .New-York—*dly, Thai no partial
ollumptioQ of that State's debt; has laken place,
i* a " '? u,va ' enl to place her on a footing with
her.iilfer States, in the general aflumption
3<)lv, The numiious Banks of the United Si ales;
as they may in time create an undue influence,
republican ptinciples—4th, The
decmon of the Supreme Court in a question re
lative to the liability of the State ot Georgia to
answer an a&ion commenced against her by an
mdjyicUial of another state.
All ihe ports ot the French Weft-Indies are
open to, Apnrrtcan ve-ftc]«.
At f, meeting of the inhabitants of the diftrift
• » si??!''" Town ' Roxbur y and B'llto! ,he 6th
inft. fffndiy reloiunonj w#re passed, exprcfltve
n 1 r'rv d ' faP!>robat ' ( » not a^s ol lric ''rporatlon,
eftabjilhing private compatiiek for cutting canals
and making Turnpikes at the ex pence of pri
vate property. A commiuee was appointed to
draft a petition to the Legifl.iture pray ins a re
peal Of fucli parts of said ads as are unconfti
tuiionalj &o.
Tl'Sfili"! for making the road through Ger.
mai V-fe , f!?; to CheTnut H'". » Turnpike Road,
by thi« meeting.
Thc fcrig Jkifry, Ca p,. Byrd, Irom St. Maiks,
and last froinSavapnah, in 9 days, brings far
tlier accounts of the incurfiont of ihe Indiana
into thr ft ate of Georgia, and that the militia were
*11 °r»_fcvere du.y. General Jackson with hit
ufuallpmt and piinotifm, had marched out
with q Uroiig party to repel the favag.s.
By palTcngers arrived here from Cape-Fran
cots, in the brig Hiram, we learn that on the
24'h of last mon,h and two days following a
violent earthquake -was e*penencrd in that
town which had done considerable damage to
the houses. The fountain in the Plac» d'Armes
' f ?'i l" br ' C wa ' h y its v '°l«nce thrown down'
and destroyed. When the br.g failed, the 2 ,th
the weather portended lurther mifchicf '
The Wilmington, Ji ffries, is arrived at Wil
mington from Belfalt, with upwards of 400
paffengcrs. *
Extrafl of a letter from a gentleman in Riihmond,
to hlijnend jji Philadelphia, dated June 7
" The Federal Judges have, this "day, deli
vered thtir opinion upon the great qutlliori of
Bruifc debts, which was unanimous lor the
payment. Griffin and Irtdeil were for lub-
payments of paper-money into
thc treasury i— Jay was ol a contrary opinion,
and the fatter gave one of the most able deci
sions l ever heard delivered—and, to disinter
ested p.f/ons, I conceive fatislaflory and con
clufivc."
Extra:! of a letter from a gentleman at Trinidad, to
i{i friend in this city, dated May 18
•• As to political newt here, Tobago was ta
ken by the Etighfli some weeks ago, as no doubt
yon will have heard before this reaches you.
The American vessels are permitted co an entry
for twelve months from the capture, and are on
ly allowed to carry off rum for a remittance,
perhaps moiaflls, yet molt cftates diftiil it.
St. Lucre, from report, is likewise captured, and
I suppose the fame regulations.
" Martinique .is likewise attacked—as y ft
no account ot capture. The French parties in
that island .>re carried to an exiravagant length :
burning, and rieftroying each other's properly)
and gmng-a kfHinty ot two Jors to Negroes, lo '
bring in their mailer's heads. Eleven (hips of
Englim rhencit war arejnchorerl at fonie ot the
wa it will be a happy circuinfUnce
for tbcm, in their present fituanon, to he cap.
tureci- The 74 gun Ihip and frigate under
French colburs, that lay for a confiderablc time
111 this harbor, fei out with an indention of join
ing the Eo&hlh Her, as leport fays ; That or.
ders from England nrrived by the Packet
that the commanders and other officers were to
be received into the British fivicr, at the fame
lates and regulations as the Engiilh ftiipsof the
fame fift are prelent : yet the cotnmanders
and others, frum a spirit of revenge, which at
prefen', in their unhapuy disputes, arc without
bounds ; and I suppose, with the hope of cfia
blifhing the white flag at Martinique for the
heirs .of their unfouoi.ate rrr..|,aich, attack'd
the ifljii.t of thcmt'ilvcs, and reprri fays, got cut
to p'i'cc» : at iea", a jjriat cumb<i ol l.ves :re
10l} f and {rt (hat teiriblc fv?{i^jon on foor, of
««'oying piopcriy, and giving a bounty io
Nigiots, 10 dtll.oy their maltirs and family.—
Sucli is the prrfent situation ol the Fiench in
the windward Weft-India ifunds ! How they
arc at Si. Domingo, &c. you are better inform
cd thdii we arc."
Mr. William D. Peck, of IClttera, (N. H j
Mr. Oliver Everett, ol Dorehefter, (Malf)
Rev. James Freeman, of" Boftoti ; and the
Hon. Fisher Ames, E q. are elected members
of t.ie American Academy of Arts and Sti
ences, in Maffachufetfcs.
COMMUNICATION'S.
Calculating the probability of success to the
Republic of France at cor,netted with their pa
per money-the chance in their Tavnr is nearly
as fifty to one compared with the lituation 0 f
the United States of America, when o!d Conti
was at more than 100 for one.
Some recent Dccrees of the National Con
vention of France bear a strong resemblance to
the tender laws which took place in feveril of
the States in this Union- particularly that which
lays that no addition to the Jfttcit price shall he
demanded if the article is paid torin affignat,-
another which forces aflignats into circulation.
Time and experience afford the only cure for
many prejudices and errors, which, oppose tfte
progrefsof works of general utility—it is not to
be wondered at that novel enterprises Ihould ex.
Cite suspicions in the minds of many persons in
this young country, when it is well known that
Tome of the moil beneficial projefl, tver cotl .
cetved by human ingenuity have been put in
jeopardy by the misconceptions of uninformed
persons in Europe.
Many instances in point wight be mrntioned
-The celebrated Arkwrigh.'s cotton mill
pteferved from deftruftion by civil,i n< j military
interpolation. Experience however has wrought
g . [ er " lOn , ln of 'he mo ft
rceptictfl — and the people have realised ihat tri.
' emolument may be combined with pu»ti«
and general benefit.
How many serious lessons are delivered by the
tongue of experience, and enforced by tipper,
of infpti at ion. K
Put nAt your trust in M.n.nor in the for of
Man —appears ol late to have extorted credit
even from Infidels.
It is become a crime to doubt the infallibility
of party—but it is a vrry great weaknrfs , 0 be
Ifrenuous in anticipating the mortifiejtion. of
time and expcncnce.
Pints coronatopui. Is the Bank, the Fund*
ing System, the Excise and Revenue of the'
Union to be annulled? O by „o mean,,' f av >
the writers and holders forth against tfee ad
m'mftration of the government —That would
be very bad—What is done must not be un
done. What end is to be obtained bv the fu
rious war waged against thefemeafures of the
national legislature » Not to repeal them, f?v
the wranglers. Is it then'merelv to vent bad
pamons-to indulge rage and malice that this
frunlefs clamour ls raffed > Or is the pretence
, mean t0 ref peft What is done and
eltablithed, a mere trick to lull the friends of
order and public faith into a supine neMeft >
Arefo many million calumnies invented and
circulated and such unremitting industry ex-'
erted to get the power of the government in
to their bands in order to spare the obnoxious
fvftenis when they (hall have them at mercy
Those who are weak enough to believe this
de.erve to take the consequences.
AN EPIGRAM.
Of Generals don't tell, me, of York, and such
boys ;
Nor of Howe—though I mean not their laurels
to taint ;
The General I'm sure that will make .he mod
none,
If the war should go on_is Giiihal Com.
PLAINJ.
SHIP NQIPS.
ARRIVED^Me PORT«/PHILADKI PHIA
Sh.p Diana Kean Capc-FrancoU
Snow Alexander, Le Mair, New-Orleani
True Love, Maxfield, ' Charlcfton
Brig Fidelity, Hercouit, New Orleans
Harmony, Dunphy, Port-au.P/i„ cc .
Perseverance, S,okei, Norfolk
CI e ?' ' Savannah
P n,"L*' RaCOOn ' Am boy
?? P c i.' K " ~y' Virgini*
1 hornai & Sail), Mitchell, do.
Ranger, Willbur, N'Yoiit
Gov. Bagie, Darrcl, Si. Martm.
SchrMary, Ooker, Boston
Delaware, Da.n, N. Carolin*
PRICE OF STOCKS.
per Cents, ,-f
3 per Cent.,
Deferred, J js
Full (hares Bank V. S. y pcr ccm . ldv
NOTICE.
r pHE STOCKHOI.Dt'RS in the SOCIETY
1 for ESTABLISHING USEFI'L MANU
FACTURES, aie requrfted to take notice, ihat
the fourth and lad payment it due, and mull be
made on or befoie the 13th day of July next
either to the Cashier of the United Stairs Bank
Office nf Difconnt and D-pnfit at Niw-York
the Cafhirr of the Bank of Ncw-Yoik— the
Ctfhier of the Bank of the United Slant in Phi.
ladelphta-or John Bayatd, Esq. in the city of
New-Brunt** :ck, in the state of Nrw-Jeifcv.—
And that ihe fnarei of all peifona 10
make such payment, and the monies h v them
prevmiifly paid, will then be io.fciied for the
common benefit of ihe said foc;etv.
Tnat the fubfertbrr is duly authorij-d to make
the requisite indoi fmrnts upon the c«ttificuu<,f
shares, and that, bonks of transfer are opericd at
fiis office in Front.street.
NICHOLAS LO\r.
New-York, J.,; ,2, ,793. (eptiQ.l
{lovdov paper.)FROM THE COLUMB! AtfCENTINEI.-
NATURAL HISTORY.
Mi. Russell,
MANY literary as well as political ad
vantn'-es have accrued to the United
State:, and to those ol N- v-E/gland more
particularly, fined the "■ our present
happy toim of government. The various
philofph cat inftitut on*, founded within a
few years in this C nmnonvTcalrh, have laid a
broad foundation fir improvement in cience
and a' ts. Among others, that cl Natural
JJiJiot'y liegins to ftuurilh with us. The re
cently ef'-iblidicd Agricultural *>occty bids fair
to amplify and spread this n'elnl and delight*
ful ftn'dy. Bvntny, that beautiful hand riaid
< f Phylic, so much neglcifh-d by the antienfs,
has been fucceftfu'ly addrc'Ted by the Euro
peanrs, and Mom preftnt. appearances, will be
orofitablv po fil d by tijeir delcendantsj
tht Aiiit icans. Wt know that our vegfta
ble kingdom is ample and interesting, and be
Heye thai the treasures bid in the earth are
j'r.ValuaSle ; but for syr.nt of perfo,.s ikilied in
Min.'raVogy, these re«flfes of cnrioOty, wealth
an.l plea.'uie, have not been entered, ai d we
re'rrt'iin cfe • d.-nt on foreign countries for
riches t' at are a&ually und i our (ret IHe
- L?tlfi»UKfOf Londo", impiefT
ed with » sense of the advantages which ww rl
ire ur to this country fiom J'earchirp t+re
earth for ofner fofliKyhas (rireroufly
£nt a noble*colleftion »f H»in#raH to our Dni-
to lerve as ltandard fpecimen'.—
This collection will lorm the richest cabinet
of minerals in the United States. It con
tains a great vane'ty of specimens ofiron ores
found in England, Sweden, Denmark, Ger
many, and other places. As a great variety
Of copper ore<, from diiferaut parts of the
world. The fame may be laid of t':c fpeti
rhens of lead and tir—To these are added
the specimens of femi-metar ; , and others va
ri >ufly mixed and compounded. There is be
etles a fir.e collection of faltyir.d saline earths,
from Transylvania, which would be consider
ed very complete, in any cabinet in Eivrope.
"fhere'are, moreover, a great number of
ijiars, curious cStrillahzatious and petrefac
tjons, amounting in the whole to above JOO
fpeciinens.
This noble donation may be more exten
lively ufeful, than some would perhaps at fr'il
imagine.—The importance of agriculture is
cor.l'eii'ed by all—but agriculture could not
•xift without mineralogy ; for although :t
m.-.y be true, that eve: y tn n« for the ftippnr't
of life is continued with unceafirig circula
tion from the upper layer of eart'n, it is ne.
verthelefs as true, that from the bowels of it,
labour draws all her tools, agriculture the
chief of her fuppoit, commerce hei liehes,
and the £ne art? their mate ials.
The philosopher*} of Europe, expect much
torn U*:, in the department of Katoi a! His
tory, from a belief, that no country is so hap.
pily fituatcd and circaniffcanced as Ametica,
for the proinfltton of th;.t uieful branch of
iience. On* of the imift celebrated philoso
phers in England, a character as eminently
(Jiitinguifhed in the line of Natural History,
As famous in that enterprifc which Cat bounds
to navigation, ami whole name with that of
fcooke's will be rerr.eluhert dby fnttr.e ages
■with grateful admiration, writes thui? to one
©!*our Cambridge Profeflo's— u Nothing tan
givs greater pleasure, to your fellow-labour
ers here, who cultivate the vineyard of fti
er.ee, than the afliftant endeavors of their
in America. We were "bre
thren before the commencement of the un
natural war, which made a Reparation be-,
tween us—ar.d I hope the men of science m
both countries will be the firft to renew the
ciaimsof consanguinity which have been for
a while suspended ; and regarrtlefs which
might take the lead in promoting u eiul
knowledge, join their hands heartily in aiding
each other's progress.-?-! hope you will be
wife enough to adhere to the
lender which your community flonr'tAiei.-'—
May peace continue with you so re ve > j and
may harmony between you ar.d ns, be un
broken, whatever calamities Province has
in store fur us."
NEW-YORk, Juno 7
CITIZEN H A UTERI VE, Cm»ful from
the Republic of France, at New-York, hav
ing pre'ented to rlxi Governor of la'd S'ate,
am exeqnator, iinder the 'eal ol the United
State-,, and Senator* of the Prefirtent. The
fimt is now publifted at the requelt of the
said Consul, for the information </i' ill whom
it may concern.
New York, June 6, 1793.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, PsEsitwNT of
.[the UXtTtH St ATE* of AIkkRICA.
T» ail whvm 11 t**j
THE Citizen having pro
dyeed to ine'hi* couirail/ien. as Otifnl from
tfie Republic of France »t New York, I do
hprebv recognize him as such, and declare
him fee to exsrclfe and enjoy such functions,
powers, atirt pri,v>tefe»j as arar allowed to Con
ftlj of the F' ench Republic by the las»% trea
jies, and con ventiims in that cafe made and
prevised.
In teftimcmr whereof, I ha»e can fed these
letters to be made patent, and the
{L.S.) Seal of the Vnited States to be here,
ornto affittpd.
Given under ltiv hand, the twenty-ninth day
of Mav, in the yea*- of out Lord one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety-three,and
off!"? Independence of the United States
of America, the Severte nth.
G. WASHINGTON.
By the ficfidet t.
truncation fj I'll GtiiTTt or tri Lnitid
Statis, jor mjlant circulation, as er Ike jliji O)
Drctvfcr next, on the lo'towf g te'M', rrz.
It Jhill be pubhfked on WinmiMll and
Satu «days, or piper oj tht MediumJite—wktck
is larger than the pteftnt.
of poitage.
Siihfcnptkmt to be received by the rtfpeßwe PcJI-
MaJlcri throughout the Union, or fuck other persons
at m.i\fee proper to tolled then.
The pjpers to be foraiardid by pofi twice a a'f/.
No packeti to contain lef than si x papers- ar.d do
fubferiptiortt to be received for & less term than fin
months. — Pa\ments to be co»Jtantly fx morth.s in
advance. —Twenty per cnt. deduoion from the price
of the Gauttb, will be a/laa>cJ tv those who*col
left and [orzttari the fubfeription mnvr-, free of cx
petfe, tn full of all charges for their trouble in the
bufmefi.
The publication fill contain «i usual, a variety oj
original el/ay)—foreign and- dom-flic intelligence,
und a fn'rittary of the hrotceimt* of the legiflaturt
of the Union, Be. &c. Atteitron will be paid
to Siffiatch' vg the p 'pes with punctuality, and Sub
scribers na\ dchtnd on-rtcetving them ta regularly,
as tht ptrff arrive.
TH: JEF F&RSGN.
TO Tnz PUBLIC.
(f*3* THf iiino p'opufes to coi'tinue tie
The price, Thtee Uolla-s per annum,rxclufivc
Juiic i.
FOR SALE,
1360 Acres of excellent
iA H M. I NC. nr TOBACCO r
LANDS,
LYING in the county of Amherft, »t» the
ftttc ot Virginia, on one of the principal
branches of Jam?* Rivcf r within fik miles of
the latter, from whence it is navigable lot boat*
of ten or twelve tons burthen.
Besides t'rve advantage? o# tbefe lands, for the
faimer ®r cultivator o'K tobacco, fhey are fup
polcd, from a (mall though fuccefrful experi
ment ma<ic bv the laie Col.Chilwell-, to conta«n
an abundance ot mcfVs, which, if not of a frt
cious (as has been even fuppoied) art certainly of
a veiy valuable kind. The betlcV however to
ascertain this fact, and place the purchaser on a
fate footrrrg, in so h;»z.udous a ttufinefj. as all
fhofe fnbterrane<m* rrft-atches, without the ut
moit certannty of <tTt z'-urtdancc of the defiied
ore, arc fnpooled tA ht t every reafonabre" and"
necrffary aiWVance or" indulgence will be fen
deied thole inclined to rrtaft.e the expeiirticnc, as
welt a* every other neeeffary rnforma ion curen
by the printer of rim G-Vme in Philadelphia, or
JOHN NICHOLAS.
Charlottefville, Virginia.
Albany Glafs-JiotiOs.
Tht Proprietors of tht Glars-Mantrfs&ory, under
ihc Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BEG leave to inform the public, that »hey have
now brought iheir WI NDOW-GLASS to
such pet fedlion, s will be found, on comparison,
to be equal, in quality, to the beii Loudon
Crown Glaf*.
Having fixed their piiccs at a lower rate thrin
imported Giafs, they are induced to believe, that
importations of this article will be discontinued,
in proportion as their works are extended.~
They propose to enlarge the scale of tht* bufi
nefsj and as the of it will depend on the
patriotic tupport of the public, they beg leave 10
lolicit their friendly parronage in the ptfrfuit of
a branch which wilt ititercft exefy iover of
Amekican Manufactures.
All orders for VVindww Glais, of any f*ie,
will br received at the Store of Rhodes nnd
MacGkigok, No. 234, Queen-ftrect, New-
Yoikj and at the GUIs Wa r ehotifr, No. 48,
Mai ket-tircei, Albany, wiivth punctually
aitended io.
gtjf WANTED, fix fmari active LADS, not
exceeding 16 vtaisof age, to be 'indented as
Appiennces. and regularly inftiu&ed in the
various branches of GUfa-Making.
Also, three Window-Glass Makers, to whom
great encouragement will bt given.
May i, 1793'
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, May 27, t 793
500 Dollars Reward.
WHEREAS a certain THOMAS SLOfS
GANTT, has lately made hit eftape
from Biliimore County Gaol, to which he was
commuted under a charge qt having robbed the
V (kern Mail, on the a&h day of January la(t :
Notice is hereby g'vpn, that a reward of five
hundred dollars will be paid at this Office, to
any prison or petfons who fball apprehend the
said Thomas S/oJsGantt, and deliver him into the
cuttody of the keeper »<f <be said Gaol, or into
theeullody of cither of the MarOial.s within the
United States, To that the said Thomas Sfafs Gantt
may bt f fFi £lu*l ; y fecurcd. and forth coining to
answer ihc above mentioned cbatge.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
The following is a description of the above
named Thomas Sloss Gantt : He is about
fiK high, (Irait ncf well made, has light co
loitted h2tr, tied behind, fair comphxion and
has a down look when looker to.
(tr" THE Post-Masters and other pe sons
who may collect Subscriptions for the Gaze/It
qJ the Upitai Stain on the terms propo r ed in
the atlthcfs pnblilbed in our last, are requeued
to fiH-wa d their orders for the papers by the
firft of November next.
PhrfttiU/f/liia t June i ±
436
STATE of RHODB-TSLAJTO #»i PROVI-
DtNCE. PLANTAI IONa.
h Central Afftabh, Ml) Stfun, A. D. »798*
T1 ESOLVtD, Th* an Aa u »"®! <1
K Ass mblyattbeSefiinn iftNUy.A.D-. ■ *$«.
whceby Ja..* Bo„ Eft,. Common"»»
L,,n..wi .equaled no. to loan any ti« cs < »f »
certain defcr.p..on, issued by the G '""' 7."*"
surer ol thi. Siair Tor Mnn.es doe to the 501 d....
of the laic- A'tny, m confcqueoee °[ < h ' IT b ' VI "B
b<-rn fraudulently obtained, arid the laid Com
,uffi >ner was further requeued to retain laid
N.,tes in hit nffier until fuih future order. Ihoold
he thereon made,ac might cmilill with the prin
-pleiol ioftice and .qoiry, he, and the lame is
repealed, so far as regards the detention
if ihofr N'ntrj.
ft iffi, ftitr rtfih'd, Th*t the Genetal Trea
surer arivtrlife in all lie rewfpapers in lhiS'B»»*»
arid ill ihe GattUt <4 IhrUtUti Stalls, adc fcrip
tioft of the Notes tlms fraudulently- obtained,
. willi a caution to all pctfons not to pur chafe
fh«*in* •
Lift of Notts at) I aim (t from theTreafury
Office by fraudulent Measures, to wit :
When delivered. To whom hen Amount of
1790. payable. payable* the Face
t J d
Sept.2s. Charnplin, en demand, 41 1 5
Prince Cafe do- M 18 2
Stephen Charles 3° 9 10
fohn Brown do. 12 1 4
Cacfar Cady 5* 2 10
John Okey do. 4319 m
O&. 14- John Reed do. 3 1 4 0
l'ohn rforflry do. 29 o 6
William King do. 22 19 5
16. Prince Sayles do. 38 11 xo
Bristol Arnold do. 38 9 6
Cacfar Rose do. 36 12 8
Cudge Champlin do. 40 11 10
Jdck Greene do. 40 8 6
18. J"feph Tanner do, 43 7 10
Cato Vernon do. 20 3 3
l>aniel Sharpe do. 3° 11 3
Prince Randal do. 38 11 o
J. fhuaD'ck do. 29 19 7
x William Negro do. 29- 5 O
23. Joseph H >11 do. 39 1 2 &
Benjamin Sprague d<». 3Q 10 o
Pete» Harris do. 38 14 6
2s. S.pphen Aldtich do. 22 i\ 2
William Mac Call do. 8 o
Prince (?hilds do. 2y 12 2
l>iceftcr Wheeler do. 19 2 4,
Pal Hacfcmet do. 25 14 o
AKraJiam Sm'th do. 24 14 8
John Thdmas do. 41 10 8
Jjrk Warden do. 31 o 2
fohn Bristol do. 33 18 ti
Benjamin Reed do. 32 4 8
Cato Bnnnifter do. 27 0, 7
Nathaniel Wicks do. 2c 8. 5
Benoni Hathaway do. 36 17 5
Evan Evans do. 28 7 2
Joseph iCfcrry do. 32 8 7
Pero (rreerte do. 28 16 9
Nov. 5. Benoni Hunt do. A 0 5 0
11. Cato Brown do. 37 5 7
Africa Burk do. 27 a 9
London Slocum do. 23 811
Ja'k Minthorn do. 27 2 q
13 Tibbet T.Hopkins do. 41 13 8
yy. Jacob Ned do. 40 o 10
Boston Wilbouy do. 42 7 10
Tony Phillips ' do. 27 3 o
Enhraim Rogers do. 023
Robert Goreham do. 41 o 10
24. Robert Howl and' do. 39 3 9
Jariie's Singleton do. 21 15 o
J nines Cross do. 35 4 6
Cato Stanly do. 21 o 10
John George do. 19 19 6
John Crandal do. 77 12 t
Prince Powei 4 do. i<J 4 9
Benertift Aaron do. 7510 8 1
Casfar Shelden do. 12 18 f
Caesar do. iy 17
Sci rwo De Wulftf do. lq 14 lO"
Bristol L'.ther dc». 2 3
John do. 28 1 t 5
Dec. a. Btujamiw Sweet do. 602
Silas Mawney <Jo. f8 15 4
Jo/in Willfon do 1 . 9 o- 4
6. Jamrs Mac do. *8-if6 3
11. Cato Bourse do. 6 10 a
Prim Gardner do. 7 u 9
JofepbWilkev do. j8 4 •
ComefiO* Dralkilf do. 18 4 8
Pt-ro F nrh do. 69 7 6
Dublin B'icrgs do. 17 4 8
Bndgc-i Slake ffo. 19 16 11
Ed ward Eafterbfooks do. 16 4 i
Cott Arnold do. 3
Prime Clarke do. 53 6
John Mc Donnal do. 32 4 7
13. GfOrge Rohbins do. 2 i oil
John Morris Obrien d 6. 25 t() 2
Pri'. c* B:own d'o. 41 f) 11
Solomon Mathews do. 33 j 6
Tack Siffon do. 40 7 8
Kewpou Greene do. 35 3 7
Ebcneaei Cxftr do. ir 6 8
John Elliott do. 2f 0 3 i
Reuben Thorp <io. 23 & 2
Thomas Randal! do. 24 (t 2
Thomas Durfee do. 22 n 6
Daniel HdiT.Motf do. 29 & 5
Richard Hopkins do. 3 o
H nrv Haaard do. 25 3 3
Levi Cole do. 9 4 ii
Allen Southwoith do. 18 I*9 3-
Richard Allrn <Ho. ii 10
Dec. 23. William Chadfey, en 9 a
Ichabod Simmons do. 4 r 1
John Brown do. n 19 4
John Gavit do. j6 16 4
William Ackman do. 4a 18 c
Jack Goddir.gion do. 7to
Caafui Gaidncr do. 8 12 7
Tob.y Coycs 00. 7# jo
John Wiiifon do. 63 16 5
25. John G 2vet do. 66 6 1
John G irnfon do.
IN OBEDIENCE to the afore rcciied Ai> of
the General I do hereby caution all
petfons fto 11* receiving any of the above rnen
■ ipiitd Notes, without the nixtft plenary proof
being made that .they we-e or»tained from the
office by genuine documents from the soldiers
fpjsw
Pojl-Majler General.
who riie Tervirr, wVmk iVt V limit
were Ic und due, ci Im.ki ttu.ii legal icpulcuta»
11VO Ol NWUIICI.
HENRY SHUISURN'F,
Genet auTrcafurer.
3 W
Newport, May 14. 1793.
THE MEMHFRS OF THE
INSURANCE COMPANY OF
NORTH AMERICA,
Are desired to tvike Notice y
THAT the Conttitutton requires Payment of
OneDullitr on each S»»»re v on ihc Stcoi 16
Moocky (the 8 b July m x<* on
ol Forfeiture o< iNe \toncy already Oa-'d.
SmcJi Stock-hordcis- as have aot mtdc thrir'fr*
cotid InQalmem, ate iu*«>rm< d, tbai Payment
will be r< crived at the Company'a (Muce, N«\
1 iq. South Froiit-Sjrcet, either 00 or before the
{aid Day, *• tbev may fvniri if most convrnum*
EBENKZLU HAZARD, te'ry.
June 8. tfiSj.
CIj&C U L A R LETTER,
OF TH*
HISTORICAL SOCIETY,
RtJpcflfuHy adihfjjctl to \>J'scrncr
in tin Continent arret IJltnds of America.
Si R ,
A SOCIETY has lately been instituted inthii
State, callrd the Historical* Society •
the pfdfeHcd deftgn of which is, to colle£t, pre
fer Vc and communicate, ma'eriaisfor a complex
hiiVoiy of this cournry, and accounts of all va! u .
able rflfbrts of human ihgrnwty induflry
from' lt»c beginning of it* fcttlement. In pm
fuancr Ot th s plan, they havr already anufled 9
larp;e quantiiy of Uooks, pamphlets and frf.nu
fcripis ; and are still in feafch of ffiorf: A
logiieol which wiJl be printed for i-he inform**
tion of the pub he.
They have also encouraged the publication of
a monthly pamphlet, in w>hi'<rh 'SflKftrihe lefult
of tbew enquiries, into the natural, political afid
ecclesiastical history of this country. Ii is re*
queftcd you woukL contribute to value
and importance, by attention to rhe aitirlrs an.
nfxed". The Society brg leave to depend on
voifr obliging anfwer'to these he d* of inquiry;,
whtti leifbreand opportunity will permit
YoUr letters addrefled, fVf e of expaffe, to the
fubferiber, will be gratefully received", and thily
noticed in the Society's publication*; and you
will have the fbtnpfa&ioir of conrribtitivfg to the
general (lock of knowlc dge, wibli. wnicto they
hop*? to ento»>»»n the public.
In the nam*, »«<vby o*dr? oi <be*Srtirtv, ;
j.KRfcMY
Corrcfporidiilg
Bcftonjn Ma^acJiuJetis v \jqu
Avtitlns »* which the Sifirtp ftfmjl
iwj'trwatioH'.
1. The time when v-our town or c'ity was in
corporated ; its Indian nlm'e ; \a hen c'he fettle*-
mcnt be^an; whether it was' rnrwrUptrrf, ii'd
by what means ; to wbt Coknty or County it
was fiift anivxea ; ami if fhcte baVc been »ny»
alterations, what tbev a/e, and when madv.
t. The exploits, laUaurs* uid ot »hf
inhabiuiws in war; particular accoui is of d<*
vacations, deaths, captivities and redemptions
$. Dtvifions of your town or c *y in pwiftie*
and prccin&s, or the ereftmn of new town*
within the former limns.
Time of gathering ch»rche» of every de
nomination ; n»mes of the several Mtniftns|
the timesof their fettlemen', removal and dealt j
and tlieir age at the time of their death.
5. Biographical anecdotes of pcrfons in you#
town, or within your knowledge, who have
Been remafkable for ingenuity, entt rprife, lite
rature, or any Orher valuable accnmplifhim-nr;
jm arcounr of their literary prddu&ioiu, and if
pofli; le, copies of rfiertt.
6. Topogiaphica? d< fcrrption of your towtt
orcounty,; and its victnitf { rf>ouritains, rivers,
ponds, ammaisr, vegetable prcrdo&ton ; \t+
markable falls, caverns, niaetils, (tones, (oflilj,
pigments, medicinal and poifouous (übftdOces,
their uf<*and antidotes.
j. The former and present state of' «fttiiva»
tion, and youlr thought* on farther imptoftb
menu, cither id Hcfpcft to a£ritffth4re, roads <*•
6»naJa.
8- Monuments artd of ancient itu
diarn \ irt>mber and pveftdt ifcaie of aity Wmai-n
---ing Indians aiming vou.
9. Singular mil-nice* of longevity amifciutt**
dity from the 6 ft feulement to the pretest tiirie.
10. Oofcrvations on the weafche*, difcafcr,
and the influence of the climaic, of of particular
fuuations, employments and aiimeoUy efpacu
ally the effect of Ipii ituous liquois 9U the hm»ao>
cOnftitution.
xi. Accurate bills of mortality, fpecifyioff.
a£es and cafualtics, the proportion of births and
deaths, and the increase or deer cafe of popular
tidn.
J2 Accounts of manufactures and ftfheries,'
and thoughts on the faither improvement of
the hi.
13. Modes of education, private or public;
vrhdt encouragement' is given to fchool# and
colleges, artd what is done to advance literature;
whether yc» have a social l»fei*ary, what is the
number of books, and of what value:.
14. What remarkable events have befallen
your (late, county, town, or particular families
or pe*f<>ns, at-any time.
F, S. The Cor»e(pondins Members of thi»
S/iciety ire Hi franfmif to the Cor re*
fponding Secretary, airy tuflori'cal information
of which Cb>y may he pe fit tied, refp* ft»ng anf
part of the American Cotniwem a-nd 1 I fends, to
gether with pvioAcd acts and pwtv&h of Afftm
bKes a 1 lid' Conveutions, whether eicil or ecclesi
astical. And the Society will gratefully receive
from them ar.d from ail other pcifons whatever,
any books, pamphlets, manufcriptsy reaps 01
plans which may be ufeful in forming an histori
cal colliflion—itnd 1 any natuial or a»tificial pro.
dultions which may enlarge the Museum.
The Library and Museum are depos ed in an
apartment of Fancuil Half. An\ frrjon defiroui
of making a (earch among ihe books or manu*
Icripts, many have access to them under such ie
gulatrons, a< n>ay be known by applying to
one of ibe members.