NATIONAL .«««, 10M mm , m , r « t , mJ > n u.T. teS
[No. 112 of Vol. IV.}
LAW CASE.
Robert Finilcy,jun. tnd other t, )
Lihct' ft/rd.
Skip William.
Skcfch of the Pleadings in this important cafe,
continued.
JirVE I 4 th, P. M.
MR. KAWLE, as counsel for the libej
lants role. He laid a few words on the
importance of the caule. He next remarked,
that America had received efTential alliftance
from France, in a mod important moment,
owed to that alliftance, in a great ntea~
liire her liberty and a&ual confeouent pros
perity, (he can but be grateful; but he ob
served, a judge always decides on the merits
of a cause abftraftedly, the situation of parties
have no influence upon his decision. The
tyiellion is not in the present instance to avsid
or dispute the obligation of a treaty but to
fee whether the present cafe applied to any of
the provisions of the treaty.
He read the libel, the plea and replication,
the substance of which we have stated at the
head of this argument, to explain on what
grnnnrl rhe present controversy rests. The
plea he obfeived admits the facts in the libel
to be true, it was only contended that the
court could not maintain the prelent suit
Ho hoped to be eftablilli, that the suit
could properly be brought before this court,
agreeably to the law of nations and not con
trary to treaties.
He laid down the following points.
1. T'lat every foyereign nation may „indi
eate a wrong done to itfelf;
2. That in the present cafe a wrong is done
to this nation ;
3- That it may be vindicated by the na
tion.
His next object would be to (hew.
I. That this vindication may be effected
leveial waysj; one of which by the interposi
tion of the judicial authority of the neutral
Jtrirf injured roiin*>-
■* **seTlFis judicial interposition is law
ful unle's prohibited by express treaty and
that no treaties to prevent it now exist*.
To begin by the firft position. He Ciould
take no time to (how that the United Scates
are a fiivereign nation. By the law of na
tions li-lfprelervatton is the duty of every so
vereign, tlie right to protest itfeif from inju
ry ir, a neceflary conlequence flowing from
that duty. To prove this point he cited the
fallowing authorities : I. Vat. eh. 2. fee. 16 ;
K. Vat. eh. 4. fee. 49 ; alCo ch. 5. fee. 65, 66.
Other authorities ceuid be urought but theft
ivijl fuffice.
He next went to the second point, and firft
mentioned that we have treaties of amity
and commerce with Spain and Holland, and
though unconnected in this refpetf: with Great-
Britain, vet we are in a state of neutrality as
relates to them, and confcrjently bou&d by
the law ot nations not to injure Asa
neutral nation we ought to b<*'"sve impartial
ly towards belligerent powers as far as con
fiil'unt with noting tieaties. He la d it
'A"; *- * general rule, that the territory
»»it!)in the jurifdidtion of a neutral country
•aotild afford a fafe asylum to all belligerent
powers.
3 V at. Sic. 105 gives an instance in point. J
Tne Bute?) fieet wefi Bergen by
the >nt. The of the forts in
Vi'vflication ifi the right of neutralit", thtfi
violated, fired on the EugliJh fleet, and the
proceeding was certainly juftifiable by the
principles of the law of nations.
■Vattcl fays, that prizes may be brought in
to neutral ports ; but not taken within neu-
jurisdiction as that tends to involve the
.Count y—LeeM. 9 page i2latid 2 Woodi
ftmpagt 143, Cay, that vessels cannot lawful
ly be captured in peutral ports or places, or
*vithm cannon-shot of forts.
For this right ot neutral nations we are
-not indebted to treaties, the right is prior to
treaties, efl.-ntial to the existence of foverelgn
nations and derived from the inherent duty
0! prtfervatior, it is of the highest impor
tance and ihould be jealously preser ved from
infringement. It bad been !aid on the part
o the captors, by Mr. Duponceau, in the
■p relent cafe, that the commilHons to French
privateers were general, and that if they
Vere reftncled this was by private induc
tions, I'hey could, he anfivererf, cruile only
where the law of nations declared it lawful
II the French had given authori
ty to their privateers to cruifeon neutral ter
ory, t.iea<ft is an absolute declaration of*
?r; ifnofnch power is given it is a tref
pals on the part of the privateer. If power
vas given, and :t is to be coniidered as a de
oration of war, then the captu.c and captor
"J»J he seized by virtue of the Jaws cf war •
» if be a trespass on the part of the privateer,
the privateer i, subject to the jaws of the
Country for the offence.
U next remains to be determined how far
,^ Ur ' Alon of 3 ""''W country ex
mMh ifl" • It J s g T R to ° lar 10 f *y with
. ■ ft lHchel,4n tbecafe cited in the morning,
that the velTe! belonging to a neutral country
is as a part of. the territory-'
of that country ; but to some dtftance at lea *
a nation has certainly jurifiUfHosr. Lee 122
fays, that a King of Spain had arbitrarily fix
ed this distance to be within fight of land j
but Bynkerihoek fettled it, and Lee agrees
with hinr, that the at sea extends
so far as the power of arms from the land can
make itrrespected.c c ted. I Vattel j. 289, agrees,
that a nation can claimjjurisdi c tion so far
from her shore as Hie can make her claim ref
pec!>?d, or so far as neceflary fprher fa&ty.-—
within cannon ihot, and for this vcafon a vei
fel taken under t!ie cannon of a fortrefs is not
a lawful prize. So fays 2 Grotius ch 3. Jcc.
*3-
In the firft fe&imi of the separate article of
the treaty with Sweden, the £tli article of
the treaty with the Netherlands, and the 7th
article of the treaty with Pruilia, the protec
tion to be extended to each other is expreffiy
stipulated, within the refpe<shve jurifdr&ion
of the fev>raj countries, aiui in some one of
these 12 miles is made the distance. If this
distance is fought for in the lav's, cannon shot
will b? found the rule,, this is generally
ted to be 3 leagues, and this distance, i»e faic",
he believed was mentioned in the com millions
toEngliHi privateers. If the capture in quef
tion is made within the distance, then we are
injured, and if any injury is sustained we have
a right to vindicate it.
He next turned to the third point he wish
ed to ellablilii,
It is contended, that wc have no right to
enquire into the validity of the capture ; the
enquiry, he said, is already inftitutcd, but this
enquiry docs not iivrerfere with the principles
ot peace and neutrality which we wish to pre
fer ve towards the belligerent powers. We do
not want to enquire into the motives of the
rupture between them, nor whether the vtfTel
has been captured under every circumftancc
that will render it valid ; but whether it has 1
not been captured upon neutral ground, wtfere j
[ ourjurifiHiftion extends, and where we are
IJdbTna Tfe-p'atect the property of each and eve
ry of the belligerent powers.
True the business may l>e fettled by nego
ciation, but a judicial decision is one of the
modes of lettleinent, it is a convenient mode,
cou r ts of admiralty take the law of natiftr*
for their guide ; a foreigner can enter such a
court wit hout fear. 1. Magens 487 —490
2. Woodifon 450.
A judicial decision is more conformable to
justice, than that which may be obtained by
negociation between executives. The firft
decides according to well known principles,
and gives judgment on the merits of the cafe
abflra&edly confidercd. The executive as
often ivgaitfed by motives of policy.
He said something further to Jh** .1
a judicial decision in cases of this nature is
preferable to one brought about by negociati
on. But even fnppofe them equally good,where
then is the impropriety of adopting the firft
in the present cafe.
He turned-to foveral authorities to fcew
that admiralty courts have constantly taken
cognizance of cases somewhat similar to the
prelent, wben they bail the thing or fetftn
within their jurildiiSon.
3- Bulftrode 28
2 Saunders 263
1. 14 83
B v nl 194
i!- Vsicel, ~ "ix
He cited a csrfe by wTsich it Sheared that
the Duke of Tufcany had ordered reHjjgiwi
of a vell'el in the port of Leghorn. ,
In all the cases-cited the matters had been
judged by judiciary courts except in the lad
cafe ; but t'len it is to lie observed that the
Duke of Tulcaßy is u despotic prince. Byn
kerlhoek expressly fays, that where no treaty
interferes the court of admiralty of a neutral
nation is equal to both parties. Strict ju2ice
could indeed be expected sooner from a court
of this kind ;he cited Bynkerlhuek i 4. 17, to
elucidate this point. _/s
Douglafs 579 eftabliflles, Wtttn.l
court may have ajuriltWtion over prizes, but
it is heft to bring back the prizes to the port
wheie the captor belongs. Upon the who'e
he obfei ved, this appeared among law wri.
ters a disputed point, whether a neutral ad-
miralty court can condemn prizes. However
the question now hefote the court h not to
condemn a priz", but to declare whether this
veire! has not been taken upon neutrai ground.
It was said, that thi> capture was no in
jury to Great-Britain, sut iuch an injury as
Ihe could 1 ail upon us to redress, that the
capture of the veflel could only be considered
as a narural copjeqnence of the war. He did
not lee the thing in this light; the veflel took
refuse on our coast, in the arms of the Uciied
States as it we:e; it was thenceforth the
duty of the Union to protect her, and Great-
Britain had a right to require it of us.
If it is no violation of the law of nations to
have a velTel, which we ought to protetff,
captured within the limits of our jnrifdiftion
off the coast, why may not a French privateer
take an enemy from our port W 9»t her from
our wharves?
445
Wednesday, June 26, 1793.
Ml, Ft N K(1,
WHAT a I'cheme of milcliief is a bank,
under the charter of Cungrefj ! jimm
ied ra®n will make use of the powers of a cor.
poration not to make profit but to propagate
certain dangerous political opinion. One
might indeed have ex|lefted th;t the love of
money would have swayed ttk-m. But, alas !
we know on the authority of the writers a
gaiuft the bank law, that tbcv are, as a body
more cunning and ambition? t;:ap ~v„t • ious. <
They prove that this is the m y mature of
a bank, and evsry true repu : tai h>. been
warred of the wicked deiigns ot a \ ■ 'v which
could be pei'l uaded to pal's, and of a chief nia-
* La'.e d'fcovrrici however Jkem tl.af «• the lo
tion's bowels" have hen devoured, unit it( "fas
aim" and '(rtim" will gq next.
Mr. Sergeant answered, that the fnvefcign
ti »<' the nation would undoubtedly inteitere
and prevent it.
Mr. fUwle concluded by addjngan instance
from the 2d vol. of Lode des Ftijei a French
weik, page 887, to (hew, thai id France an
admilalty court had taken cognizance of a
prizr taken by the American frigate Alliance
Capt. Landais.
He closed by hoping that the cause wotild
be ItifFered to proceed. From: he well known
spirit of liberty and jullice which breathes
throngh all the public a<fh of France fmte her
revolution he was pei fuaded, that Die would
be pefcdtly fatisfied with this equitable mode
offering the business.
Court adjourned to the next morning.
(To be continued.)
FRO ft THE NAT 10 HAL GAZETTE,.
PROBATION A PwY ODES.
O D E V.
7«aTituLY Great Man.
" Juftum et tcnactmpropofiti vtrum." Hor.
on thy virtues often have I dwelt,
And lijll the theme is grateful to mine eat :
Thy fold let cht nulls len times over melt,
Fiom dross and base alloy they'll find tt dear.
Yet thou'rt a man—although, perhaps,the Hid
But m*n. at best, is but a being Irail ;
And since with error human naturt'icurft,
1 marvel not that thou (hould'il lomctimes fail.
That thou haft long, and nobly fcrv'd the slate
The nation owns, and jreely gives thee thanks:
Bui, Sii !— whatever (peculators prate,
She give thee not the power t' cttablilh Banks..
No doubt, thou thought'ft it was a phcenix-ncft
WhicK were so hufy to build up.
But there : c?£>codile:had fix'd his reft,
And fnapp'd the nutton\loweU at a Tup.
Tilt g.erdy mmjtcr is not yet halt cioy'd,
Nor -will he, whiHt 2 leg o- arm remains ;
There pans ii,e lalt of all ihotild be deilroy'd j
The next delicious inorfel is her brains.
I trust thou'ft fren the monster by this time,
And haft prepjr'd thy knife to cut his throat ; '
His Icalcs are todzmrvo l)ai'd,t!i<-.t infhy pi iine,
'T Would takethee twenty years to ir,ak.e it out!
. giant rbee.lifc iodn-it! Fare ttiee w<-U!
Another lime examine w<ill the pell.
TJiough of Aiabia's fpiees it frpuld fmrll,
It may pioduee some foul injeu.al pett.
10 R THE GAZE I lE.
PARODY.
VJFEOBGE—at iKy viiiurs often have I smelt,
But ah, the flagrante did o'ffi-mj nose :
- u»fr»'.ry dealt.
that nothing is so naufcou»sri«c(ef
" ™ouart « man"—some soy t-bou sit ilie fiift—
Boi map, at befl, u but a being (rail
And oh w) being f'urely is accurli,
So- long as thou'rt the W, and I ihcr.nY.
" TJ'tthou haft levg and nobly frrv'd the (late
The nation owns"—To fcvr'ie (Lu'tcs fav-~ '
But wh« tb W heard'ft the little Atlas nrat'e,
His artful words'Xwept all thy f4me away.
The Couflitution, wt did all furinifc,
G»« not the power to for(n.» banking febeme j
The I peculators lock thee by furprizr !
And all thy glories vanifh'd like a dretti).
I .' h r ot ' fi n W,,U !' l pr "' ea """ft Prolificgpofe,
Whose r,eft with many golden egu would
teem ;
jAlai, for mejt only findt the mirf*, v
Piell— an enjpty, booUefa theme— S
Alas,fc>r me'ittC-wai rior gold, par fc'rjp, "
Poct« ( I found, mu/« .
In floleliil diltits ferfice my pen I d.p, '
And dauin and blast the fpccufating crew.
I trust that time htth open'd wide th:nc eyri,
Hath (hct/n the horrid fcaiy coat,
Ana that thou haft a knife of proper fizc,
Fo piexcc the Icales, and ekt to cut his throat,
GoH grant me life to fee the happy time,
Wr.cn (his—» i.h every oi(rc, ted'rai pl an _
Uowtvci honcli, noble, jufl, lut.lime,
May >11 be crulh'd beneath "the Rights of
Man." 6
For At GA 'lh JTE of tU UNI l EDSTATIS.
[Whole No.. 434,3
jfiftrnts w!iu cquld be iifltarfwirlreA-t<> T-pinve
ftjch-a li•»,giving t *ionJtra«»s totxicp ISY, «I
c<*uraging lpsc«>itiqii, iive I throwing the ha
bits of twd'ijidufirvf raifiiyj up no
bobs, sum! ppifoniiij; the fountain )*»_ad of re
publican virtue and-fccjuaMty.' ,/s!as; ti.is mil
chief is without cure,f 'for the very
promote state Han)l<.. Tlley tell u«Cowigr»t>
betray»4 the natiqii, Ijecaule thtv s|-(W l u*
from tlie nation}) bank r)w tariffing
Aim of sixty fionfand dioljars a the
State banks ars (et up, n ow to ljjake' whit
tliey can, and to keep .all tltey ir.ak# tch
greft, take heed to yon? ways, for we are
blind and dfafto ttiedoiiigj of the Stale Lc
giflatures—and we that ify«u
should do as we would have voi<,xye,Wi}) ohanra
our and find fault ftiTl.
P. F. Jfr hjutrJHJtni.Ct/.
t l/n/efs the Prr/idtnf tahs Sinh»t'< advice. iy
cutting the throat of this " gieii\ men/ter
A r>. "P**!""* fVw (At, ' See cut »[. Jtvathan—
u'uis Sinhat'i OJn — w whi/i the MrelL
Jed as " a truly great ma*"-tiU he fra/led oil f„
liitelt ky mttnth* the VtnftiMimi n the
"H for incorporating the fuirfcritcr'i to l.e .'lank cf
the United St *tr s ! ' y
TffE ADDRESS OF TTlz
BALTIMORE MEiHANJCAL SOCIETY,
To GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States, '
SIR,
HAVING otir hopes and expeftatiom
principally fixed on the W,ili < > n;Government
lor proteftlon and encouragement iii our va
. rious pursuits, and being fenlible tlia'r our'hap.
P>nef* and proiperitv, ir. a g:eajt measure, de
pends on the continuance of peace, and our
bemg in a itate of amity with the European
mrtV.ut now engage# in war, we beg l«,vfc, fn
addition to what others of our fejlmv r : t':zens
of this tov/n have pre fen ted, to exprris (lie
high fen e we entertain of the yifdoiji and
ftoodnel; which dieted your late de< ia'-st-ioi',
of the disposition of the government to obferm
£ itrict neutrality towards the beffi«rent
powers, who are now defoliating tie fniclt
countries of Europe. Our country la refy ex
perienced ali the miseries of a defolarii g and
cruel war, but by the interpoflt.on of a kind
Providence;, the Americans v.ere enabled
under your wife direction and patriotic exer
tions during their arduous ftrufig'e, to )e*ure
thr invaluable hlejlings thev now enjov.—
Being thus exalted'to the p:>fie,]:»n of civil
aiid religions liberty, and enjoying the bene
fits of a free and equal government, we ca«-
| not divest oui selves of fvmpathy for all who
Rruggfe for the fame blessings. But the un'!-.
r:es of war we deprecate, and circtuiiftaiced
a " ourcountrj and government are, the gene
rous French wili acquie ce with the American
citiaiens in the acknowledgment 0 f that poli
tr"th ' Ltl - VOU " enjoined,
That the djty and interest of the United
States require that we /hould with fiiiceriiy
ami good faith, adopt and purAie a c#mfaft
friendly and impartial towards tl;e belligerent
powers."—Thjs conduct we do for uurtelyes
adopt and mean to purfuc, and we are per
suaded ir will be the conduct of all our good
virtuous citizens —Peace will |, e tluj
prefewed, the Pue interci* of our country
promoted, happiness extended, and an afvlum
fecund to tlie oppressed of eiery nation and
country. - -
Ballv,.it (, June qth, 1793.
* 'tiU,
Bji.Twmc mecvjwmi fefuzTy,
OHHTHMF.V,
| TH ; ; 'angiuge of your E.ldrefs fhcwj
that you have t.gliMy cftimated the puri.o'L
lor Which our general government w JS eflab
lifiied—and so evident are the benefits re Tuft
ing to the induct ioui citizwu of eveiy de
fcnption throughout the United Slates, from
the operation of equal laws, and fu,j„ the ft.
cuntyard tranquility with which they have
purlu.ed their various avocati n«, under » m .
vernmeut of their own choice, thai itbecnmei
the duty of thoie who are entrusted with rh*
management of their public affairs, to endea
vor, by all proper means, to continue and
promote those invaluable blcffin-: Art?that
the happmefs and true interest of a pt>«pk are
beu letured by oblefving such a line tf con
diift as Will, while they discharge their poJiti
°b'igatinns, prefcrve to their country
peace with other nations, and r ultivate the
goad Will Of mankind tow.rtl, them, I t r L;l
no one will deny. If tbe citlzeiK rf
ted Stares have obtained the. thai arte- of *„
enlightened and liberal pco->ie, tr.ey will „ r '
that they defers it, h\ °
to I* the trns friends ofmartkirtf, and n: aki 1K
t .eir conntry not only ar, afyl urn f Ar , Q *
p.effed of every n z ti„„, J )llr a ,; 9 , ir<ii , lt
im,uflrif "" <*
G. Y>'4S«IN iTox.
.Foreign Intelligence.
r R A n c E.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Peru.ancnt Silling— April 16.
ioiiowing letters »eie lead,
A bring ft - lit vo the ConvetititHi
by Couiu.iliario in the at in v.
Letter from the citizens Lequinio,
Cochott & iJelleg' ade,to the I* leld
Mai (lial, Prince de Cobourg.
" Moufuur,
" Dunioiirier lias betrayed the
Frencli nation to which he owed his
elevation : You cumiwt esteem a
Traitor. Good faith prohibits you
from giving him an asylum, and you
flight not to ha** received the oiefiv
ber» of the Convention whom he d?- j
up' to you, The .French *
would ed an)' one ofyour
nation, who Tiad. committed fticti
bafewefs ; and would ba*e tellored
to you tbofVboftages, which the law
of Ratioit* pnrel'Oded theiy lroni re
ceiving iflt'ueb rales.
" We no* tratifmit yon a few co
pies of the- <lecrees passed by the
toHvtf'ffiori-on this occasion i and
we also inclose »l»e proclamation
whicb wt the ar
my.
A brave general who loves ho
nor, oughr to follow the conduct
which jttflice commands ; and we
now frankly allure you, that the
whole French natiou will eithenpe-
l illi or remain free.
(Signed) Lcqnhtio,
Cochin,
BellegmJf,"
Letter from Prince Cobourg, Com
nittnder'W.C'liief the Imperial
nties.
Head Quarters, Boufl'u, April 9.
" Gentlemen,
I did not look upon Gen. Dumo"-
rier as a traitor ! He talked of no-
thing when he was with us, but of
the happiness of his country : lie
relied his undertaking upon this re
fpetftable basis ; it was upon this
ground 1 entered into Conversation
with liiin, and upon this ground
yoo ought to judge him.' You dif
fer in opinion with hiui, this is his
only crime. •
" His principles recalled him to
that coiitliiuiion, which was once
your idol ; he saw in it the happi
uels of France, and the peace of
Europe ; for these principles he
does not deserve to be delivei ed up
to ignominy and the death ot a trai
tor." He had never any private in
telligence with us, and we fought
in fui h a manner, as to prove that
we were no friends. In your pro
clamation jou accuse him of having
intended to deliver up hiscountiy ;
he never deviated from his firlt so
lemri declaration, and that of the
other generals at our approach to
wards fiance, that they ihould r.e
\er fuffer any foreign power to in-
terfere with the interior organiza
tion of your government, or that a
ii* pails of fiance fhoukl be alien
a;ed.
As to tlie four conimiffioners
from tJie Convention, their fn;e is
hands. 1 appeal for all
o^Tt^»-v. and . f< . ,r ,he len '->
ly ran nicj^3^SncT V'uV"i'> V i"-*
of Come of the members yi'yoiir qi
fentbty, to thole membei'i who liave
really tbfc love of their country at
heart. May they find means to
make the convulsions cease, which
tear France to pieces, and lhake to
its foundation the reft of Europe ;
this is my wiih as well as yours.
(Signed) Prince Cobourg. i
Letter from Citizens Dubois, Du
bais, and Briez, Representatives
of the French people at Valenci
ennes, 'April 10, i 79?, to General
I'rince de Saxs Cobourg, Com-
Blander in Chief of the Imperial
Ai my.
General,
The citizen deputies, to whom
you addrelled your yesterday's let
ter, ate no longer at Valenciennes ;
we fopp'y 'heir place's, and w<?
pj-ofefs the Time principles with
them. We have the fame duties to
fulfil, the fame oaths to keep, and
we are polleli'ed of the fame powers,
delegated from the National Re
presentation of the Republic.
General, we agrea with you, that
to differ in opinion is no crime ; for
a crime, according to the law, is at
tached only to action* ; and it is
only for actions which ate criminal
and traiteroos ill th,e eyes of all na
l-iof.s, and even in yours, that Du
nioiirier hat rendered himlelt inta
mousaiid aiiaitor; whilst he might
have covered himfelf with glory in
i i»£e£ui.|» serving his country, and dy
■ iiij> in its defence, if iieselljry.
It was <ei t3iniy a great crime to
pretend to oppofc his own will to
that of the nation, and to propffft
to ihem any government whatever.
The w ill of a general of an army,
in oppi fitinn to legal authorities,
even if good, can be nothing hot r>
violation of all principles, and a
great crime against national sove
reignty. But what did Gen. Lu
mourier vrjlh for ? The fame that
our moll inveterate enemies no*
vvifh for, viz. To seduce our troops,
to direct rhem against their country,
(ogive us a new Tyrant, and to
league theinfelves wiih our enemies,
in order to accomplish these de
signs. What more could Dumou
rier have done ? Has guilty La lay
ette, whom he himfelf condemned
to infamy, done any thing else ?
Has not he himfelf sworn fidelity
to tbe Republic*, and for this oa'h
obtained the confidence of the
French ? You, general, reap the
advantages of'his perfidy, bur you
do nor pardon hi til for the fanijf".
The coiiftimtion, wheh, you fay,
was once our idol, fell into ruins
by the endeavors of '.hose who
wif; for it now and did not
willi for it at that time. The nati
on had tnade a trial, and in the ex
periment they were difgnfted with
it forever. The nation, and they
had a right to do I'o, infilled upon a
Republican government, and swore
to support it, or bury theinfelves in
its ruins.
We know of no divifioii amongst
the members of the Convention.
That altenibly is one and indivifibke
—We know of no other members
amongst them but what are guided
by the love of their country. 11
there are sometimes difpu'es, if
their fittings are sometimes tempes
tuous, 110 pei son has a right to 114*
terfere. We always agree in ihe
main object of general inter eft, and
we are all determined to live and
to die Republicans.
Our four colleagues are under the
fafeguard of the sovereign jnftice
and loyalty of our enemies. Their
faie gives its 110 uneasiness. Besides,
we have already «**> <*nl wer
to your addrels to tlie French of the
9th iuft,— we fend it to you, and
beg you to read it with attention ;
yon will find in it true principles,
upon which nations ought to con
duct tbemfelves towards one ano
ther.
April 18.
A letter from the commissioners
at Valenciennes, was read. It flat
ed, that Conde was dill blockaded ;
that the enemy had fummened tbe
town of Maubege, the garrison tif
which was resolved to defend it, :
and that an action had taken placa .
the evening before, in
eneiiiy were ZepjiiCgsW—'The .coin
-«rtftfinwrrystf'&ed, that they expett
ed-an imponant aclioh the day fol
lowing.
. "The commifßonei s at Nantz in
formed the Convention by a letter,
dated the 15th, that the patriots
weie continuing to repress the 'in
fur gents, arid that their efforts"Were
attended with great success.
The commillioners in the depart
ment of Levenciee and des Deux Sev
res, informed the convention by a
letter dated tlie 13th, that Cholet,
Chenille, and Sr. Fioren, were in
the hands of the patriots ; and that
the rebels in the battle of the r'lth,
loft 800 men.
Deputies from La Gironde appear
ed at the bar, and ft.ited that the
committee of fafety of Bourdear.x
had arretted a coifier with large
packets of papers, addrefled to fume
popular societies, and containing
exhortations to them to proceed to
Paris and niaflacre the greater part
of the convention.
These paoers were read bv Fon
frede, and ap'peared to be some ot
Marat's productions, containing the
deauuci.uions of Ccllot. agaiuit Ro-
446
the Jacobus of
i7r£»Wi £M«lv*i o: bcrpa^ra.
«»eW
*etufon: '-S<»nre I«rw4 m
were also read', in whitb it was f-uu,
.jifiM «feptiani»tg«beGir»M»<lM»»»tbaj
Mai leillefe wer« in full. inmrcu
to Pari*, U tuakt tht ruyatijiiMfi- the
tujie of;br<oL/). .[At tbele words loud
appfaiifrt from the g a *
leiies.^
Tli.- greater put of 'be conven
tion, however, exclaimed aguinrt
i'ne galleries, and on motion by
Douclet, it was decreed, that u»ei>
lion lliould be made in
of the applauses given by the galle
ries, to the proposal for mm deling
the members ot the convention.
APRIL 20.
Several denunciations vscre made
to the convention.
These denunciations gave riff." to
fevfral motions, fame demanding,
that a difenffion fliould be opened
an the petition of Paris ; and others,
that the aJI of accnfation against
Marat, fliould be presented.
After a violent coin mnt ion, Gen
fonnet said, " I am accused of am
bition, 1 who caused a decree to be
pnffed, that deputies cannot hold
any office until fix years af'er their j
being meiikberg of the legiflituie ; |
1 in tny turn accuse my accufeis of
Jiaving; filled every office with their
relations, friends, or confidents ; I
move thatlfflmitiiffioners be appoint
ed to verify this (aft."—Decreed.
Genfonnet refunifd his Ipeech,
but was interrupted hy (ome mem
bers, who demanded, that his ci>r
refpondence with Dumourierfliould
be printed
T will produce it, Paid Genfonnet ;
and ill a little time I will do more
than confound my calumniators. I
will attack thtm in front. I previ
ously declare, that 1 am the accnfer
of Roberfpierre. One of us two de
fer* es to !ofe his head. Genfonnet
then recurred to the petition, and
after fame nbfervations on i'»
tical confeqtiences, concluded by
moving, with Lafonrce, rhat the ]
primary aflemblies Should l>e con
voked.
After a long debate, the conven
tion declared the petition signed hy
35 fe«TiioiiS and adopted by the coun
cil general of ihe commune of a
ris, to be calumnious, and ordered
copies of this decree to be n a^lmu
ted to the departments.
The decree of accnfation drawn
up by the committee of legrflation
against Marat, was ad pted.
The conaiiflioners sent toLaven
dee, announced a new defeat of the
rebels, who ha-»e loft above a thou
sand men killed, amongw.hrm «ere
a La Rochefoucauh and his son.
A letter of Gen. Lamorliere was
received from the commiflioners at
Lille, mentioning the return and
good disposition of the troops si om
Breda and Gertruydenburg. The
commiflioners reported, ft *.m the
information 61 9 KnTtfian toUfier,
that Duaioarier' was>gnaided in
. -tight, with irons 011 his legs and
hands.
The commune of Paris, fai l Du
peret, lias jlift declared itfelf in a
itare of iniurrectioii againlt the con
vention.
M A D R I D, March 31
SIXTEEN (hips of war are failed from Fer
rol, to cruize in the Mediterranean against
tfie French ; ia,ooo volunteers have been
raifcd on the frontiers.
The Declaration of War agiiitft France was
made known yesterday in the different squares
and the pablic parts ofthis capital.
BRUGES, April 19.
The Guards, who were expe&ed to have
made fonie stay in this city, received orders latl
night to match this day for Courtray, a town
about eight leagues from this place, near the
French frontiers. The 37th regiment marched
yesterday to Otbnd The 14' ii and 53d are
still here. The reason aflignedfor this precipi
tate march of the Guards, is to assist the Hn.iTl
ans in surrounding a considerable body of French
troops, who are now near Courtray. on their
marcK through the Imperial territories from
Breda and Gertruydcnberg, and to oblige tiiem
to lay down their arms. These troops, it may
be recolled.ed, were allowed to march from thole
garrisons, with their arms, cannon, military
itores, baggage, and all the honours of war;
which capu.ihiiou the Prince de S.ixe Cobourg
has declared will he no longer adhered to, in
coirfequcoce of the French garrifoii of Conde
having molt inhumanly martacred one of his
i o£ccrs, who was sent with a trumpeter to the
mrrifon. Before intrAJjieing ICh
town. *er bound kiK c7«uml thtfl «•'<= l! n •>
niccts. In confequeoct of t ' l " »# ,<,ou " "
tioii <if'thnr.-feKi*, iU A«ftri»h
tr «ea (t«p •« the basfllge
yry-ftorei w»«cHw£»e following tbem.
BRUSSELS, April ?i.
On ihe 17th, Qcueral Clairfait refolrwf ro V?
tick the wood of Rttifmes, where the '.-.nth
hid ported thcmiclvcs, for which (Hirpofc U
sent a battalion of Hungarian infantry, one cf
the regiment of L'gne, Mother < - free
corps of Mithaelotfitz, with l'otnc light iv.rli
and chafleurs. The Cornell was long and eblli
nate and latled (even hoi«r6, Slit at tail the
French, u] «n ;he point of being fuiT-undtd, af
ter a 1p.15 and iX ikW refinance, retreated in to
lerable order to Lille. By ali account*, theiols
of the eitniy niaft. have becu very ct.ni:.lcra -le.
W: had but three hundred killed and wouni'ed.
The gamft.li of L'ilc una a vigorous Lily
to dtliudge our advanced |>ofts, which were
within a Ih.irt distance of that city, after our
troopshad talten poll at Lanno;', Roubaix, and
Twcoin. On this occ .lion an aition took place,
in which f' tlie were killed cm both fides.
Api il 26. This day the cavalry of the beau
tiful legion of Normandy, which the Emperor
has taken into his pay, puffed through our
city.
April 17. Recruiting is carried on through
bat all the country with the greatest success.and
our Waloon regiments are to be maUe up to
their full compliment.
R A T I S B O N, April 3.
In the Conclufum of the Empire of the 22d
ult. when the war against France was declared,
and the circulation of French a.Vignats prohi
bited, it was further rcfolved,
" That a'l treaties of peucc hitherto conclud
ed between the Germanic Empire and Frarire
are to be declared nidi, yet without prejudicing
the fights of every third.
44 All written correspondence is to be nar
rowly examined, but the commercial connec
tions with France a r » to be preKrved till in
fringed by France herfelf.
" All the States and V .fials of the Em
pire are to renounce their Neutrality with
France,
w All FreocUmcn who cannot obtain a pcr
mifiion of n lidtnee from the niagiftraies of an*
part of the empire, are to be buiifiicd from all
its dependencies."
FRANKFORT, April 10.
General Kalkreuth, who directs the invest
ment of Mcuiz, has summoned the city to sur
render; but General Poire, who commands
there while General Mealier has the command
of CalTel, replied, that he would defend it to
ire nrrmmranicht or o v ,. . . U)r? y
town was therefore begun yeflerday. 1 hpfte-,
ficgers having in vaid attempted to the
French from the village of Weiffenau, which is
nece£fery lor them to carry on the operations
o£ the siege, they at length set fire to it. AH the
environs are likely to be fubje&ed in tbefuUeft
extent to all the horrors and dcxafratious wf.
laitr
HEIDELBERG, April l 3
.Genera! Cuftine {till keeps retiring, I.aivlaH
is furroiinded by twelve thoufanil Auilrians, but
the formal of that place will not begin till
die arrival of sortie more heavy artillery.
The rorps of the Prince ot Conde, which is,
quartered from Spiers to ICreutfnach increases
daily, and already amounts to 10,000 men.
GHENT, April 19.
It is this morning reported that the iVfarqui*
de la Fayette on the 12th instant, in the
the Old Prison in manner of hi*
death is variously related- One ~-«aort is, that
the vi&ory of the Auftmns over tlieFfem*- , r
Louvai being extravagantly exaggerated to
liim, was the cause of his fatil ttlnefs. 1
orher is, that the jailor, on discovering Pen, Ink
and Paper in Tus apartment, took t.ie liberty of
confining the dutfpjeon. Whf?em the ii»v
If-*- iiS
account is n.it confirmed. (
JERSEY, April it.
Yesterday came a boat From St. MaloeS, with
twelve emigrants, who escaped in the night.—
We learn from them that a fleet of 17 ve(Tel»
was conveyiug {lores to Havre and Cherbourg,
under tonvoy of three frigates and a {loop of
war. They afro report, that the Counter Re
volutio.iifts in Brittany have earned considerable
advantage over the National Troop* ; that
supposed Nantz to be in the poffeflion of the
former; that there were about 1000 Sans Cu
lottes at St. Maloes, th*t they are much afraid
of ade fee lit from the Engl and that the peo
ple wait at St. Malpes but for to be- 1
cornc Royal ills.
L O N D O N, Apri) 2 >
L'flc tswcli orrp.-'ed to sustain a in if- ; 45*
pieces o» cnnnort arc innu.i i'd on the ramparts ,
the $ainfo«-has Uffccipiil ftoreg ol a. i munition
and proviGotts ; and all the approaches to it U»A
unrie* w*ci.
The wai i-fins to be frtfitiefvy bloody m
the laliy of th Frew h from £altr!» two batta
lions of H< fiia r '• were out to ?he b voiuict, and
go»o French cti* down by the P Lillian cavalry*
wijthoui the ieall apparent advantage to eilhct
fide.
May f.
T'.e T«-.-nrh conftamiy afcrine the fabrication
of ;hc t6ig''d affitrnau ibcv ma.cfe tbcmfclves, to
th* if fX'eifMl enciives. rnafs of t*hc
reniiv fupjtbie this to be the cafe, whtlft 14
wcil known ;•■» a!l Europe beiidcs, «Hc*e
one fawj'ul is made in frioce, tea a*"*
Jurg.ri oy rhe l.i£lion.s wneb fwayih* mi(Huod*,
so» iHeir own private porp »tcs, O-ie oi
] ;rns. cari«*it jarttvlc : '* -Tlrt-Aw
u«j:i G .itiai, CUiifayt, aunojace*in <* rroclflhation, that in tlic parts of Trance he fltjll fat
doc he will allow the alfignats to cireul'ate.
This is laying, in the AuJinan tongut, that, were
he 10 be allowed 10 do fa, he would inundate
the whole of the territory of the Republic With
forced aflignats."
Letters trom Toulouse slate, that the regiment
of Angonmoife is em its march to the' valley of
Auu, which has been taken by 800 Spaniards.
Letters Irem Baynnnc also ftiite, that a Soauilh
army has invaded the French territories.
No Ids thin eleven Theatres, with perform
ances every night, Sundays not excepted, are at
this time open in Paris. The Gutllttfinc 1 ragc
dies, however, draw ,away much ot their,good
company.
By letters from the Hague, dated the ult.
we have accounts frorp Paris as late as the 19th
Apiil. A decree ol confifcation of the pioperty
ot M. Egalite, had puffed, without prejudice,
ho vevtr, to the claims of his creditors.
One ol*t'he fir ft rri. rcamile bouses 111 the city
has received advices from Holland, (latiiig, that
the French convention had pailou a decree, pro
hibiting the fubjefis ot France Irom paying any
bills acccptcd by tln-m, drawn by at War
>wiih th-at country, and liiat even a pnnilhment
■was annexed wlnrever this decree was disobeyed.
The Suffolk, of 74 gum, with the General,
God lard.and Lafcellcs EaU Indiamen, and a
.large convoy, failed the jd i-iIV. for the Downs.
The Camani of the Spanilh Register ihip btO't
ill here,-took the French privateer to he an Al
g, rir.iS having r.eve." seen the new National co
lou's,or In aid of ilie war; and from a diea.l of
being inad. Haves, flood an a&ioil ot 5 hours, 111
which he bad ie:i men killed, .11J 37 w .unci -d.
Hisupper woiks vrrecuii 1 < ly flnticted, aod his
•people having heen at lea from tlw nni'- he left
T.una,could no louder uippoi*t the fatigue ot the
■action. The mate of the privateer itronglv re
commended a run to America with the prize.
The Spaoilh Regitter fmo is found 10 be of
much greater value than at tirfl eftimatcd. She
will ceiiamly produce a million fterlmg, which
is the riclieft veffei that ever put to tea. But
fomr go so far at to lay that (he w.ll fall nothing
lli>.ti oT i '
The cargo that remained on board theSpanifh
Regilter (hip, on ine 14 h of April. wHtch was
the day 011 which (he w«> reraomred, couflilt nf
the fallowing articles, viz. — t6-chefts of money,
f ven of which are gold, the tell plate ; 7 2 cwt.
of red wood ; 206;. qumtal#of bark, of different
weigh s, from too to 300 pounds each; 2400
quintals of cocoa ; 4887 quintals of copper ;
s>o quintals o! lead ; 112 quintals of wool; 162
tjuiuials of fu»ar; 2:14 pounds of medictn ;
'338 pounds ot rxtraft-d baik; 71, pounds of
greale of cocoa ; 150 pounds of balsamic Pern ;
250 prepared hides; 119 (kins tor rasping ; 8
dozen ot fine leather; 3 barrels of honey; 3
dozen nf Peru wine; 11 eases of different pro-
duftions ot Pciu. "•
On the rc-rapture from the French bv the
l&fcton, of the valuable Spahifh p»ize Register
Ihip, part of the tffefts ot which, to'the amount
of coq'oool. haji been puL-ijn_board the French
privates- " *** '-nrVi.my,
vfon, whether the £ f nghln captors are not enti
tled to lh6 whole of the latter, as a complete
prize from an enem# —tho'ollls to salvage for
f<» muclvas remained on board theSpanifh (hip.
United States.
B Q S T O N, June 15.
Extra# of a letter jran London y April 21.
On thfc 15*h inft. the unfortunate General
Blauchland?, formerly Governor of Hifpan.iola,
was beheaded at Paris. The greatest fin;p!i
city of manner's, an inexhauffciblefund ofgood
nefs, the purest foul, the most scrupulous cxer
ci'e of every moral and religious virtue, a sol
dier's intrepidity, united to theexpeiience of
art old indebted solely to his merit for
Ins advancement, and an unsullied behavior
in mhfy di'Sc'iilt (lai'i.ons —»vere characldr
iftics of this man, a£jd they're!! entitled him
t£ crown, in hi«? lalt .-moments
Ins fnoderatlon and fir nine !"<? could not be fur
paued but by the feroeiou; barbarity of his
t't.cutioneers.
u General Blanchlande failed from Cape-
Francois when Gen. D'Efparbes arrived to
take ti»e government of Ilifpantola. The
mandatories' of tlie fangtfuiary Convention of The Pr eside nt left town last Monday, on
£' in leaving to his a vifu to Mount Veinon.
<» <Lr t,„,«•' heembarked, cad fed The frigate l'Embufcade was fern on Satur
u.n r > appe ir WAojy t Convention, in order dav morning off Egg Harbor, (landing in for the
to e cried. IHe C''nX,.,fifjgjj referred his Capes, having loft her fore and mizen top malls,
trial to tnc 1 ribunal of Pa> who alps had and main-top galfant 3naft. There was a cotifi
the charges against Col. CanibefOn- ~n iCj derable gale ia(i Frniay on th^coaifc.
officers u idev cognizance. The tribunal,..- , t<fc /. ,v Federal -Gazette)
quitted Camb-fort and his -officers, much to who arrived f rom Capc
the diflatisfaftion of the Convention, who May, informs, hat the fchoonei Citiz^r
1 ,v »king upon the deci'ion as too great a mark was cruizing off, Jnd had attended his pi loci"
of Vndulgemce, ordered a new Revolutionary boat two days, chafing every vcffel he hid, nut
Tribunal to take cognizance of the pro'ecu- <k*fcfd not taken any thing on Saturday even
tion 2gair.fl (i.jn. Blanchlande—and in -*8 ID 6"
hour' ii * wus tried, condemned, executed, and
In. property corififcated—notwithftanding the
constitutional law against the last part of the
ic'ntence.'*
COMBINED ARMIES.
At the date ol our European accounts, the
combined armies were hourly augmenting.
But they were not in a state of very a<stive
operation, contenting themselves with a few
sieges and blockades.—The nioft orncial ac
count fay, that the Prince of Gobourg was
waiting for the junclio.) of the whole of the
forces, which arc to attack France at the
fame time, in order to make a grand attack.
1 he different are to be disposed as fol
lows : The principal aVifiy, commanded by
th« Print-e de Cobour», to consist entirely of
AuiVians-; Count CUirfait to head the Prus
sian , j jii cd to a corps of Iniperiallits ; and
t"e Du.ce of York, to have under hir. orders
toe Lngiiih, Dutch, and Hanoverians. The
corps of PruiHaus that w under Prince Fre
derick of Bruiii'wiek, were advanced from
Dutch Brabant into Netherlands, and
farmed part of the cordon on the French
frontier. They Wad taken poOefFion of the
ftnaii towns of Lamioy, Turcoin, and Rod
•tow, wiieie they \*<s;e prspd.riug for ti*e at-
tack of Lisle, in which pfadfc there is a g:vr
riiou of men, who ji;. ve maxle fecial
fuccefkful sallies- Account ■. i'y.cfoi Ltfi.-, dated
the 17th April, state tto be tun-oirucled of}
all lides. Conde was still in veiled, but i o
place ha-, yet surrendered to the allied army.
It Jbems to be tbtjr inrention toeiiljcT ffVu*ce
by Lffbdrecy arul St. Quinton. -* " ■
BRITISH COMMERCIAL CREDIT.
The commercial credit of Great-.ft"'its 'in,
from the war it is engaged in—the Want ot a
fufficient circulating medium—-the numerous
bankruptcies, and the impediments to the
sale of its manufactures, has recently fuf
fered a severe fliock. "to remedy the evil,
an ast has paired the British parliament, for
the loan of Exchequer bills, to the amount of
live m.Uions fterliug; on the dep.ofit at the
exchequer office, of goods, or other lecurities.
Twenty commtlfioriers are chosen to .put the
adt into execution. The fmil left fuin to be
advanced to any individual, will be 4030
pound;, and not more than 50 per cent, will
be admitted on manufactured goods, and 6o
on raw materials. From this ftteafure the
Bt'itifh government anticipates a cure tor an
evil which threatens the kingdom with a fe
riout'dii aftar.
Junr 19.
It ts itnpoflible, but ihac in the hurl<r-bu*!y
fcencs of war and Ugal plunder in Europe, tome
of M»c American vellels <nut£ tuff 1 inconvenience
fiom all : But it is as impolhole to pre
vent the exiention and mcreafing advantage of
the American commcrce—Polfefllng ftich mines
of rei utrces, fituat d arid enlightened'as the I*3,
and containing in her bolotn so rf&ive f ritce of
enterpii/.iug Tons, it is as fixed as Fite, that
America niuft bccome one of the great elk sup
pliers and carriers of the world, as well as the
afylnm of persecuted millions.
The forged letters, circulated in certson Phi
ladelphia papers, contain sentiments and alfcrfi-
Ons, which ought to bcdefpifcd by every friend
to the felici'y and prpfpcriiy of the Unued
Slates ; and could ihcfoigers be brought to pub
lic view, their names, ll tWt TTifigrrrfrearit
public notice, would be point d at as unworthy
the countenance or fricnrHhip of Freemen : But
thcii attempts are in vain—they too plainly be
tray the cloven-foot to do much injury.
It isconjc&ured, that the Ih'p seen l»v I'Em
bufcade frigate, was an Amcncati India man—
probably that arrived at Salem—lt is pretty cer
tain no two-dock man of war is 90 out coast.
Ii the Amhufcade did.not go out ot the Dela
waie 10 fight, tl»<*{e who condemn the CaDtain
for making the belt of his way to New-York,
on di(covering.a large fail, do not deal ju-ft.lv.
It yet remains to be alcertatned, whether fight
ing or prize-catchlpg is the business of the fri
gate. Bur as i' is laid, (he is bound tor this
port, ancl as there are Bvitifo frigates on (he
coast, we may calculate, that the dailian-es of
the 44 boarv God" may soon be diiturbed by
the found of hostile cannon.
Mr. James Thwinc is appointed Cashier
oftfiCTsiuCichufcus Bank,vice John Lowell,
Esq. dcceafed.
PORTSMOUTH, (M.H.) June 15.
Tuefdav talk, arrived here, ttie lh»p Indnftry,
m-1 7 i !.••«! <i«j> «i£tr
IKe left there, the Cipt;iin £ John MoO'e, of Kit
teryj was tak n sick, wi" h the diford-r called the
black, vomit, and the filth day after died. The
Mate [Mr. Elijah Hodgdon, lon of M'«?jor Hodg
don, ot DoverJ was tak< n with-the fame difrtr
der, the day after the Captain, and died about
36 hours after him. John McKiottih, Esq.
merchant, of Tobago, took paft«g p in "He ship
to come here for his health, and also died, three
days before the fluparrived here!— Mr. William
Hanlon, ot Dover, took the command, and Mr.
Samuel Holbrook, the mate's birth—'both for
tunately iuving navigation) and conducted the
ship tafely inio t his port.
■■ >'■>+—**
Philadelphia, June 26.
The Bntifh Packet Portland, Capt. James,
failed from Halifax for New-Yoik the 6'h inft.
A vefffl arrived at New-York which left Halifax
the 10th, brought this account.
Captain Fultord informs, that when he left
Francois, about the 8 h or 9th of this
month, there a £,re eight French (hips of the line
ond three frigates, and that no intelligence har
1 -L _ —i U
rca h. d that placc of che capture of Martinique
or Guadaloupc, nor of the bombardmeut of St.
.Pierre.
In consequence of an application from the
Executive of the United States, to the Governor,
as commander ill chits ol the nmitia of Pcnu
f)lvariju a party ofthemilina was, on Saturday
I ast, put oa board the (hip William, now id this
port as a prize to the Citizen Genet, f«»r the pur«-
pose of detaining hrr, until, by negotiation, it
is decided whether fhc is a legal puze ; the
court of admiralty for this diftridl having pro
nounced the cate not within its jufifdiflion.
The business of a parliamentary reform is
again agitating with fpint in England. Petitions
from a great number of towns and parifheshave
been pvefented 10 ihe House of Commons:
iht fe, after some finall objections as to form,
have been committed. This is the only effec
tual remedy for the evils of the ftntilh govern
mrnt ; and perhaps i»i a country where pieju
dicts and even h-*ve acouired an unjuit
veneration from their antiquity, it the only f-ie
mode ot feeding a radical curc lor poluttal Uif-
cab.
447
, iFrom.to a scnl'mm in
this cuv, ; n forms, that ihe ihi p I*i!mi, J I.crw r
'oiMaiquc hoju Liv«rp<j«.l, has 2»'l c»»-
peciuito * f'tench Indiainan, fup
-pof d'i<j be -wort h upward» of i>oo,ooo-i. Or f iing.
The explain abJl fit IV an<i a numhe* of tner
bands, wcre.'k&led on board the Frcnch fliip.
On'c ftaman wis Killed levcral others weir
wwtiudtcl on board the Pilgrim.
The Court of Admiralty of this ftatc* Ijas de
termined, on Friday last, in the cuifo.p nduig
re(ne«idg the capture bt the Ihip William, and
tite bug I'juny, prizes of the ichoonefs Cu z t\
Genet and the Sans Culottes, that it had no ju
risdiction to decide the legality or• illegality of
the laid prues.
Mr. Blanchard, in a publication ofJVTon-
4 1 am under the grffartetl obiiga
tipit-to the Philadelphia public, w'.o,* over
me with their plaudits', naze put
nte*rc»to the rank of the G >d , w!k> do not
ftanrt in need of any thing."
The price of Stocks is (Ijtionary —this appears
portentous ot a rile—There is another orcurn-
stance-—
Som?,ivki>f<vorticiovithirjinogainiafl<iy,
Nox<j co.unf their premiumj, at l'o much per day
In the National Gazette of the Bik wjlant is an ar
tiest denominated. authentic e xtratt of, a letter
from a gtrttieman in Philadelphia, to his Lor res
pondent iff Nezu&f.jrk, June J, 1793- Un wf, ' n /l
a writer in the American Mercury mikes the jot-
I:wing comments :
IT appears a little extraordinary, fir, that
an authentic letter of this tenor, Ihould have
found its way into the National Gazette.—
The writer of such sentiments would hardly
have earned them to the printw himfelf :
His own'fyfety would have prevented !uch an
action. Nor can it be imagined that bis cot*-
respondent would have procim d its publica
tion in that paper. If his dfiCpofition had led
him to extern! a private correspondence to
the eyes of the world, he would p: o'oabiy have
a printer in New-York., and not ra
ken tire troubie to tran!mit to Philadelphia
(the residence of the writer) such a proof of
his own vileneA-—I fay vilettefs —because so
flagrant a violation of the laws of friendfhip,
iu any instance, would merit a reproach equal
ly severe. Besides, the letter mutt have tra
velled with surprizing rapidity, as it is dated
the 7th of June, and printed the Bth.
But lir, I have not entered into this rea
soning, becauff I suppose it necessary to con
vince any person, that this piece was veiled
under the form of a letter, to conceal its ori
gin—lts own complexion loudly announces
its birch. My object was to place the testi
mony in a train not to be gainiayed by the
boldest effrontery.
The probability is, that this " Authentic ex
trafl" is the offspring of that virtuous, and
patriotic horde, which has long filled the Na
tional Gazette with every Cpecies of inflam
matory, and treasonable composition ; A horde,
the sole merit of which exists in a fixed enmi
ty, i\ot only to the constitution of the United
States, but toeverpidea ot political peace
I übot di na 11on.
From the fame source, springs the clamour
in tlorfgreft, refpefting " true rcpvbiican,ifm,"
H arifloci atic and court intrigue, ' which
if fuffered to operate freely, and extensively,
would destroy the peacc of the happiest couin
try.on earth, and change a terrestrial para
dile into a field of blood. From the fame
source, illues that storm of abuse ami invec
tive,- which is wickedly designed to darken the
Qhara&er of the greatest and bell of men,.and
is rendered harmless only by its own -impo
tence and hafeiTeft. To the members of riiis
political alfuciation, law is a Jcourge, justice
a fiend, and lational felicity a stare of infinite
to ment. These are the patriots, who to
save their countiy from British arms, would
proclaim war that nation, aided byal)
the powers in "Europe.
NEWBEIIN (N. C.) June 8.
Yrfterday Claude Paine, Philip Maunier,
Robert Roberts, [ohn Edwards, H;nry M Da
niel, and Thomns Boyle, were tried in the
circii t Court of tlie United States tor this
DiGr'Ut, tor Minder and Piiacy, when Tho
inas Boyle and Robert Roberts were found
tiot Guilty, and, the tell Guilty.
SHIP NEWS:
! ARRI VEDaf IA/'fOR FPHILA'D* LPHIA.
| rs
Ship John AU'chard, J2r»owla=a, E.Todies
Thomas, Beth :m, Port (mouth (.V. H.)
Brig Katy, Grower, Boftun
Noah's Ark, Knight, Biitoo
Ifabetla & Ann, Hampton, Martinique
L iza, Wellman, Man^alantr
Z.iheilv* Field, R- IQ"* d
William P.-unork, Holliday, Si. Croix
Chancc, Ofwaid, EijgHatbor
Schooner Dolphin, Watts, Kennebeck
Helter, Baikv, Puri-au-Prince
Bctfcy & Hannah, Fulfora, C. Francois
Two Friends, Weir, New-York
Helen, Dunham, Boston
Ceres, Robinfou, d>>.
Sloop Hope, Webb, do.
O we, Merchant, Newbury port
William, Lunt, " V do.
Belfey, M»fs, New Y ok
Ddpatch, Werks,' Portland
fyT Price ofStods at in cur IjJi.
TH £ ID IT
HOST rat*'ft J rr/jttji! lio/t trj hn di/itnt Sub.
firiirrs w*:o are ' * arrearsJer the Ctutte, to rate
fa\a ent as fieu ai p"/j'"ie.— < koj'c ptrforu uho hart
rtaiotJ fnUcriptioH nancy as hit ac ,>unt are di fired
to remit ihe fame. The Jet tue (>azetle
hive accumulated to a f-ru us ..mount—ieruw, as
thr\ ate the oni\ refunt In Jjihirje ven Jetrous
tagtjtme-U tm»tn4 in :ie [lofccvrion of Ihii ex.
fer.J/m puiiiulioa. PhiUdclph a, June 26.
TREASURY D!t? \HTMNTT, June 26
N r O'l ICE is heir b v $ \<i n, fhat pr opo ! a Isw 11 i*"
be rrccived at ihc offree of (he Sccreiai y <>t,
the Treasury, unnf'he louneen-.h day of Sep
tember next in^lufively,■fpV the supply of ail
Rations whiclf May be required for the use of
the United Mates, from th:; firlf day of Januaiy
to the thiifv-h-it day of D» cember 1 794. both
days inciuovc, at the pines, and wiuiin the
diH» »6ls heii'ifcer »'nen'toned, v\t.
1. At any.place 01 plate* bet wixi
arid CavUlli*. lii the fta'e of P nniy.lv una, and
Piti{but£.h|&at Piufbu-gh.Yot k-to wii & Car lisle,
?. Ac any place or places from Piuiburgh ti>
tbc motvhof Big B> aver Creik, and at the mouth
of, Big Beaver Creek.
At any place of places from the said mouth
to the upper iails of the laid Big ii aver, and al
the upper falfs.
4. At any place or places from t ie fata upper
falls to Mahontngt ari( J al Mahouingi
5. At any piacc or. piac« * Irom itie taid Ma
honing over to the Head N of the r»vef
Cavaboga, and at the laid Head Nav gatior..
At any place o» places Irom tUc laid Head
Navigation to the mouth of the laid iwer Cttya
hoga, and at the said mouth.
7, At ftnv plate or places betwxt the mouth
of the Bikj Beaver Creek, to the mouth of* the
riv r MufltinJum, and up the said river to the
Tufcarowas, and at the Tufcarowas, and thence
over to the Cdwahoga river, and thence down the
laid river to its mouth.
8. At any place or places betwixt the moulh
of the river Mufktnguto and the mouth of ths
Scioto river, and at the m >uth of thw said river
Scioto.
9 At any place or plarcs hetwixt the mouth
of Scrdfo river & the mouth of the Great Miami,
at the momh of the Great Miami, and from
thence to tire iapids or the falls of the Ohio, and
at the said rapids.
10. At any place or places betwixt the mouth
of she Great Miami, up the said Miami to and
at Pique Town.
11. At any place or places from Fort Wafli
rtjgton to Fort Hamilton, and m F«>rt Hamilton.
At anv place or places from Fort Hamilton 10
Fort Si. Glair," and at Fnn St. Crair.
• 12. Ar any place or plates I rom Fort St. Claif
to Fort J< fIF( rO>n, and at Foil jeffcrfon.
13. At anv place or places f rom Fort Jefterfon
<0 the fit Id ol ast ion of the 4 h of November,
1791, and at the said field ot afction.
14. At any place or places from the said field
of action to the Miami Villages, and at the
Miami Villages.
15. Ar any place or places from the said Mi
ami Villages to the falls of the MiamVjiver,
whith empties into Lake Erie, and at the said
faffs, and from thence to its mouth, and at iia
mouth.
16. At any plare or placcs from the mouth of
the said Miami river of Lake Erie to Sandufky
Lake, and at Sar.dulky Lake
17. At any place or places from the said San
dufky Lake, 10 the mouth of the rivet Cayahoga.
18. At any place or places from the mouth of
the (aid livei Cay«ihoga to Prifque Iflc, and at
Prefque Ifl-.
19 At any place or places from Prefque Iflc"
to the ft ream running inm Lake Erie from to
wards the Jadaghquf Lake, and thence over to
and at the lard Jadaghq'ur L-»ke,and thcnce down
the Alleghany uverto Fori F''«itikiiiw
20. Ar any place or place* from Prefque Lie
to Le Beuf, and at Le Bcuf
21. A? any place or places from Le Beuf to
Fort Franklin, and at Fort Franklin, and from
thence to Pi.tfburgh.
22. At aoy place or places from th? rapids of
the Ohio to the mouth ol the W.ibafh river, and
from the mouth of ihe laid Wabafh river to the
moinh of the river Ohio.
C - At guy-place or places on the E»ft fide of
the niTi M iliffippi, fiom the mouth ol the Ohio
river, he mouth ot the Illinois river.
24, Ar any plarc or places from the mouth of
the la:d Wabalh river up to Fort Knox, and at
Fort Knox.
25. At pUce or placca from Fort Knox up .
the laid Wabafh to Ooittanon, and at Ouittanoo.
26 At any place or places from Ouittanon,
up the fa;d Wabafo, 'o «l>c head navigation of a
branch thereof called Little River, and at the
said hod navigation of Little River.
27. At any place or placrs from the* said head
navigation of I.mle River over to the Miami Vil- '
lagr.
?8. At any place or places from the mouth of
the rive r ».<> Occot happo 01 BtarCieck,
on the said river, iuclultve!y
29. At any place or ptures from the mouth of
the river Cumberland to Nashville, on the fu»d
nver, and ai Nafhv:l!e..
30 And at any place or places within thirty
prdesof said Nashville to the Southward, West
ward or thereof- -
<&yild ;«nv tc'tions bcrre.- -~r J, _ p' 3f4 CS,
or within in thelc
proposals, price ot-the fame to be hereafter .
agreed on betwixt the public and the coiurador.
The rations to be fuppl'.ed are to COnsist ol thf *
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or slur,
One pouud of beef, or }of a pound of poik,
One quart of fair, }
Mwo quar.t* of vinegar, f .•
1 , . , > per 100 rations.
Iwo ponnds of loap, ( r
One pouud of can<Uc*, )
* The rations ?re *o iji fucll qUHlti- '
tie*.** that there fh*ll ai limes, during the
te/m, be futficK'ol tor confuiuption o{ .
troops at each of the said ports* so/ the fptcc df« '
3 monifti in ad.vnicc, wgood.tfd W hole-.
•lonic proiifiom-, jfeipe thai! he rrqoirrtf. ~
Itilobcood«fto<Kllnt3chfafc,thM*Jl3eiik|
fuflaSnrjl l y iTn ofptcflailcSis of itfc rncmy, itrkjf
■ncaw nf ihe waoffept the VJp"t ( lstaiT », be
paid Iqrartke pliciM of the articles c*pta«diof7
d*ft»»vcd,o»i tHt'dejxifumiis. of two or nMV
crtditityi ttoktalttt*; M& ihfc cnirtijatt -tf l g
copitpifl'MMltd.pftitp*, afemfrining Ate eitftlar. 1
fVinctrjof Ihe Idh, add the»h*Xim
lor wliith '•
The contr;i6c tor the above supplies wilj be
made either h»r o&t y«*ar, or lor tua years, a* may
appear eligible. ?eiform d.fnoled to contract
will therefore coi finc ;be;r offers to one year, or
llicy may niake their proportions foas to admit
an el< 6k ; en ot the term ot two yeais.
The ofirrs ma\ compile all the places which '
have been fpccificd, or a of tfrcin •nly.I Ml. ft*. Bib£ti.
PRICE CURRENT. <"> £.<?* «jo
—• f~, _. . Sweet, best, in flaiks.pr.bo* »o *a
rt» ifuArt.n-DoL u., .00 Cents each. D , uo ba&eu J9
Spermaceti pr. rail. 4 §
PHILADELPHIA, June 26. Train s 4
Whale 25 33
ADlls. Cts. Dili. Cts. Porter pr. cask* t 30
N r CHORS pr.lb. 7 ' c —-London, pr.dn*. j e> o
\lluoi, j>r.cwt, 433 American d.tio bot.incl. *4 160
Ditto, Rocb pr. lb. 11 Pitch, pr. bbL 173 2
Ashes, r>ot, per ton, 12® ?ork, Burlington, pcT barrel, >467
-Pearl, 137 140 7 Lower county 13
Arrack pr. gall. 133 116 Carolioa 9
Brandy, common, 80 Peas, Albany pr. buflicl 73
—Coniac 90 roo Pepper, pr.lb. 38
Brazilfuo, pr. ton. 40 Pimento 19
Brl C rt\ pf ' M ' 4 ! M*, pr. keg <31
P ', ? " 7 D '"° P' j" t33
IJjfto, in lot 4 r\ »» l
Ditto, small water, per keg 36 <° Km pf'cwi 0
Bee,, American, in bottle. Rofm £ ■ • «
' I £ sinoD ; 12
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 20 W,X»d 86
— New England i« .4 garbadoe. 87
———Merchantable pine U 14 Country, K.t, 60
Sap, do. »o 67 Salt petre,pr. cwt. 1433
Mahogany, per foot 2 0 Saflafras pr. too 6 8
The abrfveare the Ihallop pfric£s» Shot ditto 14a 141
for the yard price, add 1 do!- Steel, German pr.lb. 9
lar 33 cents per 1000. Englifti,blifttred, pr. cwt. io
Brimilone in rolls, pr.cwt. * 6; S '3
Beef, Boston, per barrel " W « W , ' ft 68 « A
~ j .. Snake root pr. lb. to 42
Country ditto 9 »° Soap, Browa p« lb. 6
——Fresh, per cwt. 333 4 «7 __I white 6
Butter pr.lb. ,6 Cjftile „
n'," 10 12 *»"* ?
pr.lb. 4? Snuff pr. do,, bot. 4 s&>
Myrtle Wax M ? 3 Spermaceti, refined, pr.lb. 48
Mould, tallow l 2 Sailcloth, Englilh,No.l,pr. y»rd, 36
Dipped 11 Boston, No. I. ditto 36
Cheese, Englifli, pr. lb. 19 —— No. 11. 35
Country 8 >3 Su g ar tump, pr.lb i-4
Chocolate 15 18 Loaf, (iogle refined I=4
Cinnamon i 40 g€y Ditto, double do. x, £$3
Cloves 1 32 Havannah, white tj <®
Cocoa pr. cwt. 10 11 Ditto, brown, it «a
Coffte pr. 10. >4 16 Mufcovido, pr. cwt. 9 12
Coal pr. bulhel S4 33 SpiritsTurpentmepr.gallon £7
Copperas pr.cwt. I 67 Salt, Allum pr. bulhel 33
COrdage, American, per cwt. 767 8 Liverpool 33
Cottou pr.lb. 27 5: Cadiz 25
Currants 12 Lisbon
Duck, Ruttia, pr. piece 15 Shipbuild. W. O. frames prion, 1867
Ravens 11 Ditto Live Oak, 21 33
Dbtch fail duck, 18 20 Ditto red cedar, per foot 40
Feathfers pr. lb. 48 kinglet, 18 inch, per M. 333 367
Flax ditto 11 12 Dttl ° 2 feet, 6 50 6
Flaxfetd pr. btith. 90 o Ditto 3 feet, dressed, 13 15
Flour, Superfiue pr. barrel 6 Staves, Pipe pr. 1000 38
Common, 5 67 White Oak hoglhead, 20 33
—=—Bur middlings, best £ Red Oak do. 50
——Meal, Indian 3 13 Leogan 21 33
*• ditto Rye, 3 33 Barrel 16
—-—Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. t 40 Heading 25 33
Fustic pr. ton, 10 Skin*, Otter, best pr; pi 4 67
Gin, Holland pr.cafe, 46® 40 80
Do. pr. gall. 83 9 D , tlo ° r «.d ,10
Glue, pr.cwt, 20 ai 33 Martini 24 ,
Ginger, wh.te race, per lb. 7 Fifhcr. 33 « 7
Ditto, common 7 Bt , art »
Ditto, ground pr.lb. ic Racoon* * 7 60
Ginseng, 20 « 4 Mtllk . T . t , „ s6
Gunpowder, cannon, pr.q.cafk, 3 73 4 „ ,
D'tto, fine glazed 4 De e.,in ha,r »o 30
Grain, Wheat pr. bufli 93 1 20 0
—Rye 60 Tar,N.Jerrey,? 4 gal.p. fcM. I
Oats 35 Cartlina, 3? gall. 2
Indian corn 60 Turpentine pr. bbl. 1 33
_»_Barl<v I 1 3 Tobacco, J. River, best lOOib. 433
1 Best Ihelled pr. lb. 7 inferior 333
Buckwheat, per bulh. .40 "———old 467
Hemp importrt.pr.ton, 120 ,46 67 llZlcoWedTuryland, j33 i 33
HerrlngV;' pr. bbl. 4 3 '
Hide*, ta* pr.lb. 9 'lLrr . ' 4 °
«» - r.altern-lhorc £ 2 pq
TJwiwAi j l w xa 9/ " Carolina,new ® 7 3
Hogshead pV. M, 15 oJdj 7
Indigo, French per lb. 1 67 Tea, Hyson pr.lb. 93 1 28
Carolina t 1 »o Hyson fk'.n, 60 '
Irons, fad pr. ton, 133 33 Souchong, 93 \
Iron, Castings pr. cwt. 3 4 -Congo, 43 30 !
Bar pr. ton, Bohea. 33 36
— I —Pig 24 Tallow, refined, per lb. 9
——Sheet 173 33 Tin pr. box, 1303 , 3 $7
W, ■ 4 ,0^ 3;3 Ve,digreafe pr lb. 47 53
Ld hogs pr. lb. 9 ,0 v" r ™ I lh ; oa ' '33 '37
tead, in pt;s pr. cwt. 533 567 ' hdd d 7
inhars 7 Wax, Bees pr.lb. 15 27
v>cghite t» y; 67 Whajlf-bone, long pr.lb. 13 gg.
W- 6 4 o 6 6 »»■ ,76 226
Leather, foM, p>v.». ~ - . I—Tlbon i^s'-
Lignum vitaepr.toi, 6go 6 galley 63
Logwood < 30 Payal 5 2
Mace pr.lb. 9 ■ —«—-Port pr. pipe 113 33
Mackarel, best pr. bbl. -8 ———Ditto in bottles„pr.doz. 4
f(Cond quality 6 4 Claret 4 6
Madder, best pr. lb. t6 20 Sherry pr.gall. go 120
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, ; 33 4 67- ,Malaira 57 8c
Mali spars ditto 33
MolafTes pr.gall. 47 —■
in'battle., pr.dok. , > COURSE 0F CHANGE.
Nails, 8<(. lod.md. and 20rf. pi.lb. jo On London, at 30 days, per £ .100 ilerl. 456
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 *8 at o<^a > s 453 33
at 9° 4£ys 442
Oil, Linieed, pr. gall. 66 Amsterdam, 60 da\«, pr. guilder, oj
Olive g- go days,
Hercule De Sercey,
From Leogare, /Jland of St. Domingo,
MAKES and fella all (bits of Mugs, Jacks,
Porringers, Cups, Stew-Pans, Lamps, &c.
in Tin, or japanned—He also mends old
tin work. As he works cheap, he hopes for the
public encouragement.
No. 23, Race-street, near Front-street.
June 22.
HERCtJLE de sercey,
D"E Leogane, Isle de Sr. Dnminque, travaille
en fer Blanc, de toute forte de manicres a
tommatlde et a bon marche.
A Philadelphie, ce 22 Juin, 1793.
No. 23, Race-ftrcet, pre* Fioni-ftriet,
THE MEMBERS OF THE
INSURANCE COMPANY OF
NORTH AMERICA,
Are de fired to take Notice,
THAT the Constitution requires Payment of
One Dollar on each Share > on the Second
Monday (the 8:h Day) of July next, on Penalty
of Forfeiture of the Money already paid.
S-ich Stockholders as have not made their se
cond Instalment, are informed, that Payment
will be rtceivcd at the Company's Office, No.
119, South Front-Street, either on or before the
said Day, as they may find it mod convenient.
EBENKZER HAZARD, Scc x Tv.
June 8. 1793. .^j.
448
jusr rußLisntv,
By Thomas Dobfon,
SeckfelUr, at tht Sune-Hmfe, i» Satn4 Jirtet^
PHI LADILfHI A,
VOLUME I\, or
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
or, a DICTIONARY of AR IS, .SCIENCES,
ahb MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely kcu :
3 Y WHICH
TH* Diffrsint SCIENCES AND ARTS
are diverted into the Form of DiibnCt,
TREATISES oa SYSTEMS:
THIS VOLUME CONTAINS
HYDROSTATICS, Hygrometer, Hiflory of
japan, Iceland, Jerusalem, Jew*, India,
Infc-£ts, In fuiance, Ireland, Italy, Ksmfchatka,
Knighthood, Language, Law, Legerdemain,
with a great variety of Biographical and Miscel
laneous Articles.—lliuftrated with thiity-onc
elegant Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
1. The work is printing on a fir pet fine paper,
and new types, (call tor the purpole) which
will be occasionally renewed btfoie they con
trail a worn appearance.
It. The work is furniftud in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as subscribers chufe; the price
of the whole volumes, live dollars each, of the
bilf>volamei two doliiri and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on lub
fcribing, the volumes or half-volumes finiftied
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each fuccecding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unless paid for.
111. In the course of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia : which by
far exceed in number those given to any other
fcicntific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant front if
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It iscxpefted the work will be comprised in
about eighteen volumes in quarto-
The fubfeription will continue open on the
above terms rill the firft day of next,
to give opportunity to those who are not yet
fubfcribeis, to Come forward.
Thofc who have subscribed, and got only a
small part of the work, aTe requeued to com
plete their setts, as far as publifhcd, as soon as
pcflibie, as alter the firft of next September, by
which time the tenth volume is expe&ed to be
ready, the publisher will not consider himfeif
bound to make up those setts which are not
completed up to that period.
Philadelphia, June ig, 1793.
This day is publijhed, by
MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Maiket-fticet, PhiUdclpiii,,
No. VII. of
Guthrie's Geography,
IMPROVE©,
The terms of Sobfcriptioi* may be feeA in the
pro po fa is at laige.
THIS *aluabl« will contfin (exchtjiv*
oj the maps in tiie Lo*do i fditicn of 179®)
maps of New-Hampshire, MalTachufetu, Con
necticut, R. Iflaud, Vermont, N.Ycrk, N. Jer
sey, Pcnnfylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Vir
ginia, Kentucky, N. Carolina, S. Carolina,
Georgia, Switzerland, the D.fcoveries of Cap
tains Cooke and Clerke, and the .countries
round the North Pole.
Be fides the great improvements in the Ame
rican Geography, the accounts of France will
be extra&ed from the Frcnch Geography, pub
lulled since the revolution ; the map of France
will be engraved agreeably to ihe division into
departments: the hillory ©f Ruflia, which., in
the London edition, U carried no farther than
1 775> iscontinued to the late ejcecrable iovafion
of Poland by Catharine : the account of Swe
den has been compiled anew, and numberless
other improvements will bt made in this edi
tion.
* # * Subscriptions are received bythebook
fellcrs in Boston, New-York, Baltimore, Wil
mington, Richmond, Ghartefton, &c. &c.
June 19.
And that the I'nares all persons r.< aj'ft'ii' 10
make tuch payment, and '
prevuwflv paid, will ihf~™.
I common benefit of f »"' (; ' t,< ' lv - ,
Tfeat the faW-T'T 1 ' ' y ao,horl,rti '°
■ »h r rcO" ;< i' " t 'naoilmieonuponthe eertificatcc
M'CJ-ALLE^" 1 Co. y iiarrs. ar, 1 that books of transfer are opened i
, , , » his office in Front-flreet.
D EG.U"^t e 10 ,nf(Km thf PO^-» that « have 1 y irHO i A ! t oVf
now brought their WINDOW-GLASS to %j v i -j witnULnj
c u r I- i.i » . r I New-York, June \2. \tqo. (r*tifli)
such perfection, as will be found, on companfon, J — ■ ■ , ..
. to be equal, in quality, to the best London
Crown Glass. i
Having fixed their piircs at a lower rate than
imported Glass, they are induced to believe, (hat
importations of this article will be discontinued,
in proportion as their works are extended.—
They propose 10 enlarge the scale of this busi
ness, and as the fucce'.'s of it will depend on the
patriotic support of the public, they beg leave to
solicit their friendly patronage in the pursuit of
a branch which will interest every lover of
Amrkican Manufactures,
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
All orders tor Window-Glass, of any size,
will be received at the Store of Rhodes and
MacG&icor, No. 234, Queen-street, New-
York, and at the Glass Wa r ehouse, No. 48,
Market-street, Albany, which wiil be punftuaily
attenaed to.
83" WANTED, fix ftnart aftivc LADS, not
exceeding 16 years of age, to he indented as
Apprentices, and regularly inftrufted in the
various branches of Glass-Making.
Also, three Window-Glass Makers, to whom
great encouragement will be given.
May i, 1793.
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be had at SAMUEL COOPER's Ftrrv.
tf-V ike price of this Gazette is Three /V j
per jnttvm—tine lv it puia n
feribirg.
&TO&MA6 miiMSGK, &AV 1*
STVyfltT, & &AKILL CAKhZLL,
Eftmtrei,
4fpp»fe<i b V Gwcrnnw l«
Public BulWir.g«, 4c. «nhia it*
C«*> ;lot of Cpn.
«Mw"' ukeu pcriaaaeoi rcfiatocc tla»
tteydbitaa—
A LOTTERY
FO* ra& IMPROVEMENT OI HUB
Federal CITY.
kOfSOOTi«k*<l at 7 irr 350,000 dolltn.
LIST OF PRIZES, v.i
t Supefb Hotel, W"h buti, f
ogrMirfn, itc.kc: 10 cost J
1 Cisc ft«*e
1 ditto
1 ditto
1 <hu»
*
to ditto
.to rfittu
ibo ditto
toe ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
>6,737 Pri»M
33,263 Blank*
50,000
Sy this scheme at teafi the amount of th« tick*
ets wiil return to the fortunate adventurers, a 114
yet the federal City will gain its objeel thereby,
in a magnificent building di nned both for pub«
lie and private convenience.
Although some cxpence mud nect(T«»rily in
tend the condu&ing of the lottery, (which or?
pence w ill be taken from the principal pnae) (He
CoinmiflioneTS having agreed to prefem m rc _
turn a fufficient quantity of excellent rtee-ftonc,
together with the best adapted lots for the hotrj
and for the out-houfes, the value of the hm-ry
entire may be fairiy rated a? i»orc than
par: In this important instance it
on examination, to exceed all the lou< ms th*t
havi ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps i« any other counuy. Tbe keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will* e dclivrudtc rhe
fortunate poff fTor of the ticket drawn
it* nuirtber. — All the other or zes will be paid,
without deduflioMyin §re north ajter the dtawinj,\ y
the City Tiealurer at Wafhmgtoo, Or at facfi
Bank or-iSanks as may be heuaiter announced,
for the conveniency of ?he forturictr adventurers.
The drawing will rommencc on the
fith of Sept cm bet next, at the City of Wafhmg
ton.
Ticket* mav He had o? Col. Wm. DictewL, Cits
Treafurrr of Wa&ingtoo ; Tha et &ft rtret, of
CharleCron. South-Carolina ; Gideon Denjoriy Sa
vannah; Messrs. James Weft & Co. Baliimoie;
Mr. Peter Gibua*, Boftqn; and at such othe?
places as will bg.hr.r-*r>ubliA*ed.
N.'TJ.' ONE HUNDRtD uulla.oc
be given for thebeft Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if brejented
on or befort the 10th of April next; arid a pre
ference will be given to the Artist for a Conr
cra£l, provided h« be dirly qualified so
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be erected, will
be a corncr hot of about 90 by eoo feet, with a
back avenue to the stables, &c. Se&ipos ?«d
eftimatea of the expetife will be cxpeflerf
with the elevations, See. eompleat ; and ,50,0 09
dollars must be regarded by the At chite# asth«
utmost iimit in the expmfe rnunded tor thf»
S. BLODGET,
Agejfrt for the affairs of the City,
purpofc.
March 6, *793-
NOTICE,
THE STOCKHOLDERS in the SOCIETY
for ESTABLISHING USEFUJ. MANUr
FACTURES, are to thaj
the fourth and last payment is mufl t>.*
made on or before the 13th c'ay oi i»ly next ;
either to the of the United States Bank
Office of Discount and Depofir. at N' wOfprk—
the Ca'ftiier of the Bauk of New-Yo»k — the
"Cafhicr of the Bank of the 'United Sutes in f hi
ladelphia— or John Bayard, Elq. in rhe city of
Ncw-Btunfwick, in the stare of New-Jrrfey —
GENERAL POST-OFFICE
Philadelphia, May 27, 1793
5 00 Dollars Reward
WtIERF.AS a certain THOMAS i>LOS
GANTT, has lately made his efcap
from Baltimore County Gaol, to which he ws
committed under a charge of having robbed tfc
Eastern Mail, on the 28th day of January last
Notice is hereby g»ve«, that a reward of fiv
hundred dollars wil! be paid at this Office, t
any person or persons who shall apprehend tF
said Thomas Sfofs Gantt> and deliver him into tt
-custody of the keeper of the said Gaol, or in'i
thecuflody of either of the M.irftia.'s within it
United States, so that the said Thomas Sfofs Gan
may be effc&ually (ecu red, and forth coming t
answer the above mentioned charge.
The following is a deferiprion of'the abov«
named Thomas Sloss Gantt : He is a'bw
fix feci high, (Irait and weli made, has light c<
louied hijir, tied behind, fair complexion an
has a down look when fpok.cn to.
epiaw
PLANS
City of Wafliington,
SdKl bv the Booksellers,
DO BSCS', CitREY, YOUNG, & CRUKSHAIfi
55.900
«5,000
*0,000
Ij.oM
IDidM
" 0,000
tofioo
*0,000
ib,boa
»6,oo»
JO.OQO
10,00<t
tsn, on*
ffiOO itc
Mm
500
too
5«
s 5
to
M
Pollarj 353,000
TIMOTHY PICKERINrG,
Poji-Mujlcr General.