A SAFIOUAL PaI>ER, PUBLISHKD WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FtNNO, No. 34. NOfirh FIFTHSTREBT, PHILADM P>i 1 A.
[No. 120 of Vol. IV.] Wednesday, July 24, 1793- [Whole No. 442.]
\ This dny is publ'tjhcdy iy
1 "Guthrie's Geography;,
v improvfjEj,
To accommodate h:s fubrcribH at the prcfrnt
important ctifis,'i)»c •publllher hai, in tffi»
jjuiribcr, given i Map 0/ the-
Stat iff War ;
1 yet having it in hi* so fli^n-fha
' M 'l**'' France entire, dividctf'W'o depMft
ntcnti> HOti'chfluiUbe engraved m aipof
finle. ■ .. , •
Tiili vjfuaMe -WOrV. will contain (<rtclnfyc
of the maps in the Lovlnn edition
toapsol NcwiHamplhitc, llaffachiirms Con- 1
ac&icut, R. Iflatid, Vermont, N.Vork., N. Jer
fcyv fennlylyaniat Dclawatei, M*rylv>d, Vir
|iWi Kentucky, N. Carolina, S. Carolina,
lajGeovgia.
So. 1. dontjins a map of thS feat of wsr in
Ziibfft i Xii. 2'- 3 map of anil Euro
pean Turfcev; Nd. .3. n map of the crtuntrtcs
m«A : th? S£orth.P..le; No. 4, a whole ftm
map of the wotM ; JJ<y. 5. a plan M the a r 'Ti 11 -
)ary fphete ; No. 6. a mip of Soii'h- Amen;"" !
7i» Wapof Swiurrtand j No. 8. a ilii« i»f
fr »"d No. f. amapof Atria.
S'V of,*he *i(i»ens ot Pniladclphi-i t ,Jis h#ve.
nil had a« opportunity of examining '.hi« work,
a«eTequcfled to frnd for the numbers already
■rtMMd, in order to fatiaty thfcmfelves how
Ur it iefcrvdttitir patronage. If, on infprc-
ihot>W:nt»t approve of it, their money
will be fveeJly| returned.
BrfidM tne great improvements in the Ame
rfcart Geography, the accounts of Prance will
from ihe French Geographyrpub
tiihed (ince the revoUuiwi; the map of fiance
r will be engraved-agreeably to the divifiori into
1 6ep*rtrpen}» t 'he of Kudu,
the London ronton, is canted no farther than
I77s,i«cn<itinu«d to thelat'eekecribte iAvalett
«f Poland by Catharine? the account ot' Swr
; d£n hat been compiled' anew,, ami numbfrleC*
other w ill be made 10 thi * edi
tion- .
>■ *»* Suhicripiiotvs are received by the bnok-
V fAleri in Boftoo, New-York, Baltimore, Wil
li' miftgton, Ri.chmont(s, Gharfefftin, &Lc. &c.
V .Jn<y «Ow ■■ ■
; -i • tfc:- -:'- •
-ft3T TRE EAiTor propojis to continue the '
tubiiiatiM ») At Gaiktte or the Unitio 1
State*,-Jar iijimt circal'lim, after the firfi of
t December next, on the fqlUu>wg>4etmf, wz.
It J&tl ie putt'Jkid on Weknesqavs and
Satu«d*v>, on piper »] the Medium fize —which
it larger than the pt'efint.
t ' :TheprilCi Three DolUra per anmii*,rxcluflve
f ' .
' Suifcrrptiotii to he received Iv she rifpeljive Tcjl-
Majlcri,throughout the On'on or Jack Other pelJftns
etittay'fee proper to collefl fhtm.
I, T!k paperi tt he f&rtMide&by pofi twice a B'«rk.
Kf-ptebti tc. contain \ej> Man s*l ,x piptn- eni no
/Mr I tints to he received fate Up tfrm than fix
.menths. Payment) to he cov/favth Jix infintfu tV
' iioartr.—"twenty per cent, aedtlfion from the ptici
■ : tfihe Gazette, uiltbe allowed tvtfafr aitd col
i! w and fcrniird the fuffcriptiox ntne\,-f'ee of ex
pfnle, in lull of all charges for their trouble in the
j hjnefs. ,
the publication will contain at ufiiat, a variety if
mtginit effos-~l<rreign and im'fiic. intellicence,
md* fimmarj tf the proceedings of the Legijlatui e
ej thtU*iott,tic. (3c.—Atte>.t'on will be paid
yMpalfhiif Ihc tafeis wOt pvnfluality, and Sub-
JmSiri May ietiend on receiving then at regularly,
. 41 the ptjb 1 grrive.
; - J"« 8.
'^frrr if Fr&vce oxd Cold Coins of Great Bri-
Mtin,and J)emi*ions oj tain and Portagcl,
yfm*. ■'
Cents. Grains. Cents.
* ar > 3
•7■ » i
,# • Jti * - 11
- . H ■* ■ *1
s «» a 18
C Ja "6
-7: -*S 1 *5
r ' a a 9 ■ 8
« 83 9 33
•0 ,j6 10 p
m "• 40 V 4°
»«' 44 ** ,*t
«y >7 »s 4 11
H <4 6'
H ts »A W
58 ,S 59
|f. t»t S7 ®3
\ »i «6 .« *>'?
3i .<> 69 »i( 7®
V ' »• 78 »o H
'it. 76 »« 7 8
Vf - fc *» ■« •
*S »4 ' 5»-
*4 *7 *4 ■»
'/ TABt.tK for receiving f"d pajinr Md
Vh*i, iJkulitti by tbe'ojfccH 'of Ike rftrnn fiflie ■
Vltiud St»tee, atretMt io iU nevt Laev—frvm
4M <*» '«w« fitoe.tn entailed- nay be J
FROM THE ff.DESALGAZETTF.. - t
*—-m-;ij. gfety «
thit evflxJsi in incfeafe, of 'tli4l£' ;
a fofid and invaluable
state t»f focirty. As there are ltiartj' s
anwng ( n« whoie pliHofapbiiJ if).
tjie rapif) strides of the pr«fctttyag£
the jierfeiftion pi human I
der that no notice been rip ■
traordinaiy cnliiiiUii:;cation
]■ refprtride-nt at Eafion. A JtVJ ia
" grfi of Eafton, and the woi id is tv -Tg(
reignof.reafoii, philosophy, aad.poire rfa Ififf
leration" is begun, and 110 ma^flipjcftniw Ms
; adniiniilration but.yopr correfamifeyl.i» £m«>
Wit b: cau:e this is t nlly a fituejrfvc that it
, ii not to have-cedit for itt '0^"
• cause it never pretended nntK
; the way in toleration, th«t
theprefent! inftSnce is dllW^trmf; -mWpt •
he laid that the ejection of a Jew to theojßtp
of a Bungtfi in a little country.' towfc «i» J.%
banks of the Delaware, does not amount, to
certain and conclusive demonstration that ther
whole world is really enlightened,' aiiiti ■; |
. age is ah tige of reafiin, philofflpltY#. T
virfal toleration. O ! ®i#(Nl!'j
attenpts tew arris the i!fafta
and, tyiinuu !
advances in the pat hi of reaflwy pWspHpff( r
and toleration, are thus fcanne( f —-tiTtis Trio■
bed of their merit andi ftu'ejy tW 1
Utigrattful world riinnot b!kme j'on, if ytn}
advance no furrher—if yoti refufe to It any
more examples of re a son and philosophy, or
lead the way to universal toleiatiniv
But tl)ou hiift made one more call upon the
generofitv aod justice oi the world-—thou hal?
I ipado one mora ft ride, a tremendous one in
i d*?"d ! towards universal teJeratior.—thou
[ ftialt not lol'e thv well-earned eu!o&*j if tliis
I pen. can.give it thee. The following iofnr
> mation may be. depended upon, to prove that
! rtie election of* the Jew was not a pppufai
| g'nft of caprice, i\or produced by t'te political
I ruaehiiiarions of a part J, but founded solely
i on thejrareff and pi iiKiples cfuiii
! vtfrfal toleration. Qn the 6th day of .Jn'y,
179j, a " election w.as held in the.bprough of
f E .iton, for » Towa-Clcrk. The elejftiont wes
[ conduced with uncommon rtal and fpUit.
I ISrfimy voter* oct than at tVe
: election of rtie'Jtw ar a oppr>-
! fition was between the friends, of; uvherfil
: toleration, and> the ignorant,, prejudiced, ants
. unenlightened |>art of the community—thanks
; to heaven and the cause of virtue, the former
! prevailed. The poll was doled in proper
• time with all diie fdlemnity, an j the votes
being coniWed; it appeared, that Thomai Her
<uju, poitmjonly known by the name of L<mg
Tit., from his exeseding height, a Free Negroj
hiliaUitant and fioufe-keeper of the said bo
ronnh, wjj duly elected to the Jjid office bv a
majority of votes. Will tKe world nor? re
fufe the jufl tribute of applause to the philan
t'nf.opy, to the rearon, philosophy and
t'lon of the boroufth of Eafton ? Will it hesitate
' td follow Ci> noble an example ? Sorely not.—
' My-imagination Ibndly palntsfout to ine the
•da*—'the fapWy approaching day, when eve
ry burgess trill be a Jew, andevery
a negro. There is but one repfon o» any
weight, against the propriety of electing long
Tom, to the office of town-clerk : It is this—
that he can p«ither read nor write. But no
matter, he can do as gfeat men have done,
act some tody to read and write for him.
PHILANTHROPY.
PHILADELPHIA.
Slr.£biro«,
following is an r*tnft ot a let" »d-
X drcifed to rat ti Chairn*n pt the arieeiiirg
he id in this cify.'for llje pijrpofc relifvmg the
di ft reded cititens of Cape-Fiancois,ih« publica.
lion ot which you will find intereftmfc "<> 'he
cause cf benevolence, a» it nny rxci.e »T>plauU
iiittjy doe to the virtopiu inhjbiunt,j»f the town
of Baltimore, for their generouj contributions
to relieve the unfortunate peifons aiViVed tneie
from Cape fn'ncois and their other kind treat- ,
ment of 'them. - li i* believed with confidence
that Tj* at Baltimore] • common imovjlte w' l '
on the prt sent o,.tdfion be experienced thfough
out the cotmtry, to relieve in the mod effectual :
manner the dift-filed who take refuge in it, and ;
that ihe citliens «f Philadelphia in particular, ;
will »ot ke wanting in' th«i« utwoft epterlvom ,
for tbr cause wh)di tbc committee hope to pio- ;
mote the good of'by receiving com.iliuuoos. ;
I am, Sir, ;
Your ofcerticui humble
/Signed) JOHN yiLCOCKS. :
PkiloJeipiM, Jul) 18, 1753-
BJlimve, J*ly »6, 1793. j
• Gtv Timi*. .
t "WE h,i»e. HoiT-wcviv«« you* Icftfr wvnc .
iujt. iuclolißg a copy you* lefulutioit of ,
{ tbt 13th. . , 1 ■
t 44 It ttiwxprcfflblepWaforcto ifjrnfne ;
I s jpod difoo&ioftot'ife citiicns •l , PbiUdelpnMf»»]
m j to cd-opcraK wiih tbc irrhn.b»^ ,, t* o* fh?* 4
r ia ih« Wenevoltpt attempt to alleviate t^t
ucllca of tl&e ptcfle «f Capc-SVaiacoii, who niv#
*
. i . ~ • V. /
477
taken refuge' ariiong us; to describe the'r rrjifery,
and [be extent of rhcir wants, is impollihle, nor
can v.e with accuracy aic rta;ri rheir number t.
On airivdl of tin* (tact, and i he.intelligence
4 < ir deplorable Situation, th? fiift iinpu'ie of
Jiiin.anUy was alone obeyed. The doors of our
• hmi'es were ibrown open, and crowds annulled
without any torm or cetemorrv by which to
minib<r them. Th<» committee appointed to
recelv©Conjrnbuppns and provide accommoda
tions were at the fame time pre fled bv innu
merable obj< £ls of diltreTa, and in the firlt in
ftanec, bellowed all their attention on merely
procuring them fhcltcr. We have now adopted
a fyficm tn the buftnefc, and in a,lew days we
hone to give you fatisfa&ory information to
every point of enquiry*. Fortbq prclent we will
of}'' l communicate the following cifcumftlance*.
The number .of, (bjps arrived in this harbour,
is about 49, and the white p' ffengers we suppose
x,ooo, ine pco'r>te of colour and blacks 500,
others are hourly arriving, and or the
that proceeded to Norfolk, not more than 306
can he aeeommodated,and the remainder wc arc
informed are on their way to thiß town ; of
thole arrived here, about 400 are accommodated
in private families acting from motives of bofpt
tality and charity, and 6co are dependant on
tin. ncrops contributions of the town. The
sum raised bv fubfeription does not exceed
jk o dollars ; from this efttmate you must rea--
'di'?*\>nceive that our fund cannot lohg fultaih
the "heavy draughts that, are continually made
ir, r V' it, and the geneiodty and humanity of the
town.howeyer aflefling the pccafiou th«t draws
them i#io a£tion, must loon be exhauifced, with
out >tIV aid of the bencvoh nt in otllet places.—
You have Happtlv, and wtth great fenfibil ty
come to oiir relief—f¥e ps Ay you to frtoceed in
\aur benevolent defignof r.uifing m,vic\ byjul-fcripiion;
one funds are valtlV infetior to any permanent
fip'plyi 2tld m a little time the whole of the
F'fnch onfouunates, mu'l be dependant on
yoiuraam| the gepeerifity and, humanity ps o her
places. —/'£ would fo/icit for them.\ou r utmojl ix
ertion.tj for greater dffirejfi we never before have
kno'j.'n K | Ia addition to (he impcrlett data al
ready .'given on whic<* to found your calcination
of require.! supply; wc would fiiggtft atfdSth r
article of exjjpnce that calls for our immediate
attention. The greater p.tri of the pa (ledgers ar
rived are deilitute of clothing. The calamity
wjS tbo fuiden to admit the rehioval of proper
ty, and in one instant their houses and all were
deflrovH. We have yet applied no part oi our
fjbfcriptions to this indifpenf.tble ultf. But
wbilft we feed the hungry wc- must glotbe the
naked.
We (ball communicate ymir rifofuftons and
per,erous intentions to the ci s iketis or Norfolk,
and aavife you of their reply as soon as it is te*
ccivcd.
Some of the unfortunates who have arrived
here have proceeded to jHlitad iphia ; —W': re
commend thrm so youf hofpi'.ilicy. Others
will no doubt follow, To luch as dre proper
objc&a for relief, we freely grant Itipplic* or mo
tocv to defray their expences.
Wnh sentiments of JdVC
tbt Ewwot if. hut.—--
Uentltmen,
Your bumble, &c.
(S'gred) Rob. Gilmor, > Two of the com-
Sam. Sterett, J mittce lor rebef.
To Mr. John WUrodis,
Chairman o* th<- Commitiee, &c.
FOR THE GAZ'EtTE.
WHILE every citizen of a free govern,
ment claiiuslhe privilege of thinking
as he pleases r and of publ lbing his thoughts
to the world, he must expert that the red of
the community will also exercise their ■ ight of
judging as they p!eafie of his opinions, his mo
tives and hmifelf.—l further rake it fdr
granted that every Printer in some measure,
holds himfelf responsible for the opinions pro
pagated from his pi els, and in this view may
be adverted ijpon as thej ; " author—they are
at least hi< adopted child;et».—Who then is
the Editor of the " Nutioac/ Gazette, '* that takes
the liberty upon every occasion, both trifling
and not to examine with candor
and decency into the conduct of our fifft ma
giftralev but to-cast et him the rr.cil illiberal
and unwarrantable abufe—lts absurdity de
serves to be hooted at, and its impertinence
punilhed. The President iifues a ?rocla'ma
l tion, in virtue of his executive authority, to
advise the people of their situation, which is
1 to tb'em a new one, to preserve the peace of
I the country, am! dec/Fare it's Jaws; fdr Jobbt
, less while there is n6 declaration of war by
* the proper authority, it is jshe law of the
Union that we should reniain in peace. It
matters not how just or how giorious the
cause of France is—it matters not how we
mar 5e bound in gratitude or in any other
way, even'by treaty itfelf, to aflift her ; while
the'confritutiortal authority has not positively |
and eMplicitry enlisted in the contefl, it is the
duty of the executive to use all means
r to keep the neutrality inviolate.—As to the
( president's tight to ilfue such a Proclamation,
I will f«sy, that not only he, but any other ci
lc tisen has a right to publtfli every fentinient
a ccnt»in.ed in it ; and whether it is done un
fl' der form of a Proclamation, or uncU-r any
{. otter fpnp is not very material. j
v« • *it ;o;ues with more and I ho^e
s n .:
with more efF?#, from Him than from any
body else JSo that, if this Proclamation cl'aiilisi
no authority* she right to promnlge it cannot
be cjneftioneu-—lt is hot pretended that
wou'd be criminal to disobey it as me Prifitiett's
Proclamation, although it inigrrr, 3s being ,an
exposition of the law of the country—the
breach of which is undoubtedly punifliable.
The President js charged Atith havinjr "exceed
ed his authority in this and
yet he is censured for not t a more
• 4 alive jtarf."—Now fprelv Ins authority does
not depend upon the fide he take-i—is there
lore he excetds his authority In a ftmpje
word of caution and adv ce to his country-'
Men, who depend upon him for ftich
hiw can he be required, by tlv fame peopre,
to &,» vet fu ther and take an alive part —a.b-
furd ijconflftfcncy!
He is we«t> censured fjr the imprisonment
of two Americans who, as a writer fays, ge~
generoully forVook their country to ailift the
cau*e of Liberty in France ; or, in more fim
pie phraie, enlifKV. thentfelves on boa d a pri
vateer, to mend their fortunes, desperate
ertou ft :-.o doubt, b<» publ'.c robbery on the &a.
I totai-jy deny ti.at tVfe men vere
ed bv the President ; bfc r under the ianftion
of the ]aw% and by the "\>per ofHcer appoint
ed to defend the Obs»im«j>nwealth, and pro<?-
cute every violation of i'l la^vsT—Snt it u
(aid they Were i< legacy imprifored, and the
p ofecution dirtied by the Prefidenj. I an*
fwer—this is the qneftion to he tried—arcl it
will be lega'ly and impartially tried by a jury
of their feilow-citigens ; thin is not
then an ad: of flppreflion by the Prefiden—
an arbit ary confinement a6,his will and \>U i■-
sure. The " jNfatioriail GazetteV fays it l.
illega' ; I fay it is not.—N«»w th s very ft f
f?rence in. opinion, this doubt, not only juf
t'fies the President, but renders it his duty to.
brin£ the-queltion to a fair a d !e«aj dec nip r„
Bur it is aiked, if rhefe imn are acquitted
what fa'i ia&ion can tiiey have for the in
juries they have furred ? I reply thaf every
criminal from the loweit to the liighcil, that
ever has been or ever can be p> ofecuted, may
ask the fame quelnoi with the fame prop ie
ty., Iti: an incon venieore unav oidubly re*
fifltrin& from the flats of foiiety, a: d the ad*
mini ft rati on of jurifptudence, that an inno
cent man \tiil sometimes be accuftd ai d liar
railed, without lecbefs ; a man is attained
for trespass or tVi trtrvt'Vm —j ™..
his chafacler is injured, his"bufine's is ncg'efl
ed and faihjnto ruin ; his property s- waited,
and his family involved in irreparabfe rnifery
—he and acquitted—whete is he to
look for a remedy to his wrongs—how is he
to heal his wounded reputat or-— r.cw gather
again his fquandertil fortune-— l cw r|y,\e
His broke '«*nnjT fie rr.cft consult
the fltirion&l Gazette — a' great
reformer of law and rcovernnicrt—'lk* ap
pointed censor of. the rule; s of the people—the
co.loiTus oflearryng atd jui ifprndencv —Crr.
this infutu'ed man fiippoie that tiie bo;dnefs
Of his impei ti'!;en<c and abhfe, will delei ve or
acquire the cor6dence of the people more
than the inestimable fervites of their o'd, «p
- r pvcd patriot and f. Uow-Joidicr, WttfjuTtgwi F
Whitt remarkable events appear in the an
nals of the Ed tor's life—what g-reat or us ful
actions Has he pei"formed, upon which he
founds his claim to at r ention and app'aule—
Let us look a little into his merits—ls he a
great politician, and has he afli/ted the conn*
fels of your cabinet, either in peaceful or pe
rilous times ? No I—but he is a Pvet—Has ne
commanded your armies and f ught y bat
tles ?—No !—but he can Aefaibt a more li»b
lime battle than WafliiAgtOn ever fought,- 1 -
Did he ever ilfque his lifeamidd the horrors
of a.naval war ? No !— a Poet's person is too
precious tor such exploits—but he wrote a ve
ry pretty account, in verse too, of a Jc'a-fg'h?~
also pubbflud in all the nfcw(papers '*rd
magazines on the continent, a mofi ij.r.fii i!,
most nielanch'oly" Ode'ti rrtwob an ettning \it
sea,—As he has such tine ictffl( of tho e things,
it is a pity he did not reduce them to prac
tice. I'll an fwer for it he can arrange an ar
my more 'po;tJcdlly than General Waru-ngtbn,
and more 'cbnformable to the true "anci genu
ine rules of the/^/md— The n6 vance gtrard
wouid serve as an opening to the
in true cpic propriety Ire would lead 011 his
legions of tropes, metaphors, atid and
and bring the pifiois into full play.
scut to leav* the Poet and return to the
Prihtir~The President visited the Circus—
the perfbnner chose to pay Kim a very just
and pretty compliment, with a propriety in
the introduction of it, that does hiui honor—
the spontaneous plaudits of the people imme.
diately follow—their hearts arc full, and the
liting of gratitude touched, vibrates ih de
lightful tones —this sickens the e.nvious foul
of thL* Editc»r—it is a new fubjeft for railing ;
any thing ferves—tha venom and malign
' of this man's difpo/it on, is not unlike a tho
der cloud, which etjually discharges irfelf V t h c
on a mountain or the point of a needle—iveni
attack is too childifti and trrflinj to dc-a Saw
a serious reply— £o poor creature, I aneam of
s ' with yout your heart is embittered wir, Sioie
e appointment, andyou are driven to
-«E»/y, () »«
9
coHWianity to purged of wicked design ng
dura<»ir s , whose probity depend' upon
eo«volfioh« rf their country,
«r whofc reftkb, oneafy temper J cannot hear
S«J>o»rjrf peace, but that a mind willing like
fomrt, to prollitutejtfeif indifcrjmiimtely to
' «U, tbp nKSsUkras.aiMt fenrtttien ts of fi.ch cha
' rWWri, and usher their venom into the world,
LnA i'ulficient eirployroen', and earn the
of the inoft degrading dependence, a
(hi the vices of others—while I
thy conduit, I almost pity thy ne
-4 but look, up and behold the *tm ol
.a
"M
iUdtlfhk.
, . Aim riu {ChamX »to«) SfATt GAZETTE.
ADtiiialhn /« auuMufual fjlt*
THIS BOOK, ...
IS DEPICAT ED
TO that man (whenever he may
appear) who, fclefied with a
foul superior to all lucrative and
ambitious views, will dare 10 (?;inO
forth, the generous advocate and
benevolent protector .of the public
welfare.—Who, when in will
make the bappineft of hi* fellow
citizens, his tote objedt j*"and w ho,
when out of office, independently of
every partial confederation, will
lleadily and unifjorjiily adhere to
the fame honest phrii.—Who,..while
in power, will boldly oppose all
meaiurest however profitable to
himfelf or his friends, that may be
Jerri menial to tlie cause ofhigcoun
try —and who, when deprived of
power, unfliaken by present disap
pointments, or uninfluenced by fu
ture expectations, will as boldly
support every measure, Which may
be beneficial to that cause, though
it originates from his mofl hated
advei (ary.
Such a man may be juftl) honor
Ed with the glorious title (hiihertq,
ala* 1 ideal) which in all ,ag?» has
f Veen frequently conferred, but,per
haps. never yet merited, of a
PATRIOT.
Foreign Intelligence.
P A,R IS, April 29.
GbNera t cUSTI N'e's fccotiJ letter to
the J'rejTdent oj the National Con
vent ion.
" Head Quarters General at
Weifleubourg,i\lay 7, 1793.
" Citizen prefideut,
" T CA4NNOT command thearmies
X of the and the Moselle,
which have been entruttert
after having loil the confidence of
citizens Ruautps, Montaut, and So
bi'aile, the coinmiflioners of the re
presentatives of the people. 1 can
not doubt that the fit ft has brought
with him the most disagreeable and
-moll unmerited prejudices agaiult
me.
11 These three eoniiniflioiiers, on
Saturday the a7ih of April, brought
Hie to a trial before them, giving
me as antagonist, Lieutenant Col.
Offenftein, one of the leafl refpetft
able ftibjeAi of the Republic.
" At present after returning from
8 journey which 1 was obliged to
take to the Upper Rhine, for the
inierelt of the Republic, 1 was vio
lently accused by one of these rc
prefent stives, in presence ofa num
ber of (he officers of the at my', re
fpeifting a letter which I wrote to
the Duke of Brunfwick s an exa*ft
copy 1 have here fnbjoined, wiih
my private Iliooghis,' by which it
wes dictated, explained in t-he mar
gin. As long as 1 was obliged only
to interpret, my exprellions, 1 an
swered with all that moderation
which the commilfionfrs had a right
to expert ; but when one of them,
whom the re it applauded, accused
me of having difplaj ed in that let
ter sentiments unworthy ofa repub
lican, i can no longer after such an
injury continue to command the ar
mies of the Republic.; and for its
interell, I request that you will ap
point some one to fncceed me, for
I cannot command the French trooj>s
•fter their delegates announce to
e tbatthey refufeme their ePceem ;
I it would be dillionoring the
to which your confidence raised
l and be (hewing myfelf.nnwor
f that leftifled to me by my
fellow citizens, ifthroogb ambition
I fhuuid retain an office in which
such language would deprive me ot
tl:e ineaus ot being able to di'charge
lite duties of ft,
" 1 lie character which I had e
\er before the States General, the
opinions which at the epoch were
iii me the result of long experience,
and of mature oblervaiion, inade in
the midst of courts (an experience |
and obfervaiions which g<*»e rile to
my republican principles) are the
Tame at piefent ; but as they
the result of principles long.ago
deeply studied, they have not pro
duced that exageration which makes
font* ilefpife all kings, becaufethey
have had the misfortune to be born
on the throne.
" 1 beg the representatives of the
people to remember, that 1 demand
ed ifie reiteration of a villain ; and
tlvat 1 was not limiting an eulogium ■,
but 1 will again repeat, let imparti
al men read my letter, and they
will fee whether 1 offer incersfe to
the virtues of the king of Pruljia —
On the contrary, tliey will
that 1 hope not to be compelled to
pronounce opinions so unfavorable
to him, as those which would be ex
cited in my mind by his granting
protection so traitors.
I fball not here mention tbe harsh
expressions with which this charge
was accompanied, becaule ibev con
cern niyfelf perlottally. 1 inlill on
ly on the impossibility under which
I am of being able todtf eharget-bofe
. fuwftions which 1 am deli to us to fee
taken from me. f, £ .
" My wifhe* for glory of the arms
of the Republic are, however, not
lei's finrere. 1 wflh that another
fonunaie thanjnyfelf w>#y v
nite ibe confidence of the
oners to the taleius neceflaryf&P in
fill in,g our success. Till
moment I (hall negle.<3t iiothijE? to
attain thai end, the object my
Vows ; but 1 ntuft inform re "
prefentative# of «lie
is abfolutcly requisite that fotrHfoiie
may be appointed to fill Mas
f'oon as possible. 1 (hall my
facceflor and give him MMRCpUtit
of all my plan*.
(Signed)
LANDAU,
This city has been fummoneq »
fecoud time lad night. Oti'r Coin
niandant Guillot read upon the pa
rade, the Commons which had been
sent him by the ProlEan General
Szeruli, who commands the Prussian
van, and {lie anfwei which lief re 1 -
turned. M. Guillot fwenrs hot to
iui. .-j« r ,j, e fortrefs till it ftiould
be convtrteTwimii^»^uj n
heap of ruins.
General Guillot has since given in
his resignation ; and M. Dentzel,
one ot'the cnmmiflioners of the na
tional convention in the department
of the Lower Rhine, has emigrated
to Switzerland
FRANCKFORT, April 30.
The King of PrtUfia, accompanied
by the Priiice Royal and Prince
Lonis of Pruflia, his two eldest ions,'
arrived on the 24th tilt, at Darin
ftadt. where those two young Pi inces
were betrothed to the Piincefles
Frederica and Louisa, the daaghters
of the Duke of Meckjenburgh Sire
litz. This double marriage will be
celebrated at Berlin after ihe cam
paign, the opening of which may
be retarded by the very difficult
sieges of Mentz and Cartel.
BRUSSELS, May 4. '
We have learnt from 'a courier
who yesterday pa fled through this
city on his way to Vi&nna, vvith dif
parches from the army, further ac
counts of ihe late engagements.
The AuftridteCeiierali consider the
atfion of tMnli inft. a|, the ipoft
important that has yet takeir place,
lu fa<s, the whole army is ad/vaticed
near four leagues. Tlie Ffe'nch
loft, in killed and wounded, more
than 2000 men. We took.l4oopri
foners, a "teat many baggage wag
gons, horl'es, and ammunition Cais
sons, fevetneen of which were en
tirely loaded with powder. The
Imperial troops are in poflelßon of
the -formidable . entrenchments of
Hauffin, which command front
thence the town and citadel of Va
478
tthciefines, and msnace all t*>e
'lowns in Haiuaulr.
Briip/f Gazette Extrasutinarj
" I he object of the I'rench for
ces', who amounted to 'more than
sixty thousand men, in attacking all
our advanced posts at the fame ino
*mtnt of time, seems to have been
to re ertablifh the communication
between Valenciennes and Conde.
The battle was long and oblHiiate,
but the valour of our troops ren
dered a good caul'e once more tri
.uuiphant.
PETERSBURGH, April 25^
A courier, arrived from London,
has brought here the Treaty of
Commerce, which was renewed be
tween Russia and Great Britain,and
ligned ai London on the °f
Mareh, by Count Wororzuw, the
Envoy Extraordinary from our
Cottrr, and Lord Grenville. The
Commercial advantages granted to
the Englifti in the Kufiian States,
were stipulated and continued on
the fame footing as by the I reaty
of 1766, the term of which expired
at a time when the Courts ot Pe
terfburgh and London were at vari
ance.
LONDON, May 11.
The articles concluded on by the
Diet of Ranibon, direi'ted that 110
member of the Germanic body ffi all
remain neuter, points directly at
the Elector Palatine, to whose irre
fnllirion all the misfortune* which
Germany for thiee mouths pall has
(offered, is owing; for had be in
time given a pnllage by Manheim
to General Wurmfer, the retreat of
Culfine and his whole army would
have been cut off; however, nnt
withfianding his having promiled
the National Convention to remain
neu;er, he has now agreed to fur
nifh his contingency.
The Alliance, French frigate of
26 guns and 200 men, :» taken by'
the Spaniards, and carried into St.
Sebattians, after a strong refinance,
which lalted upwards ol two glades.
.'Several men were killed and wound
ed on both fides.
" CUSTINE."
May ifj. The fjrft exchequer bills
under the new alt are intended to
be hilled on Wediiefday next, aiiq
one of the niaaUf;u. l tu>'eTS at Miin
chefter will be arnoii.j; the firft to be
relieved with aoo.oool. who other
wise would have been obliged to
discharge all his workmen.
May U).
Extract of a letter from an officer of
thi Guar J.' t near Tour i. ay.
" This country lias differed much
by the war. Friends ami foes, French
and Pruffimis, have vied in pluu
xßmig it. Our people hiiherto be
have amazingly well, and are very
papular.—Lall night on entering
the village in which we are now •
•quarieied, the Coldlt re.llll grena
diers were to occupy a farm hotife,
the niiferable inhabitants of which
were ill the uunoft diltrefs 1 the
Pruflians had robbed them of every
thing, not leaving them even a nior
■Jrl (if bread. i heir new guelVs
g:lve them frefli alarm ; as they had
now .nothing 10 give, nor nothing
th»t could be taken, they expected
and dreaded the mod harfli ulage.
Their joy and fu prise may eafiiy
be conceived, when they saw
the Biitifh soldiers empty their ha
: frerfacks, and were cordially invit
ed to partake of the humble repalt.
Tbeir graiitude soon spread (he (lo
ry, which has gained us much cre
dit in the country.
May 20. We (Vated a few weeks
ftnce, that the French Executive
Council had sent over two gentle
men to this country, to convey let
ters to Lord Grenville, with a view
of endeavoring to open a communi
cation between t he t wo government s.
Lord Grenville received thele let
tera. A time hasofcourfe been re
quired, to convey the proceedings
of what pafl'ed to Paris; and we
now learn, that an answer from M.
Le Brun, the French Minitter, is
daily expected. —We offer no opi
mon of what tnay be the result of
this agency ; but this is certain, that
there are peribns in this country,
com miflioneil by the French mir.if
try lo open the channel of a nego
ciatiotv, and that they, continue to
be occafioiially feeti by those who
.y mtiiiiatctt aifinefled few
I litraiipn.
~1l DuUe of Yoik's heat! qua
ireaF Vournay. 1 tie Biiuiu
aas :\i yet been encamped, but tin
iroupl are cantontd in ihe neigh,
borhcbd of I "ouriiay.
The com millions given to the re.
venue Gutters, which have been fit.
ted ouiby government as privateers
differ from all the letters of matque
hitherto ill'ued in our fervicc
They have the usual authority i 0
of having all the prize- thev iakt
fubjeft however lo ihe damage
which they would incur if ilieytm,
velleh which Were not legal piiz/
they now have only one halt of i
prize, but the Admiralty ii:denn
them agiinft all ri:'k.
an
ad n
A letter fr<jm Pe ei fourg (hit
on the 19th the ice upon the Nev*
beg.au to give way as er the riv f r
had been frozen 143 days fnccel".
lively-. On tl>c 20th several vefltli
were rowed over, and shortly the
nfua] communication was entirely
reflored. ' . . ;
Two Ruffian men of war are ar
rived in the Kumber in 14 da\»
from Revel.
It was yeflerday reported, that
the Count d'Artois was ariived iu
the Mumber, in a Ruffian frigate
from Petei fbiirg—but that doubts
were entertained on the fxpedienrr
of bis landing, as bills drawn in bk
name to a conliderable amount an
i'.iid to be in the bands of federal
per font in this country, who might
fend a flieritFs officer to demand
payment.
Another report went farther,and
said that the Count and his eMer
brother, Monfienr, had been in Lon
don, incognito, since Friday, on
their way to join the royaliih in
Britanny.
DUBLIN', May ri.
Breast and Toulon are the two
in oft Ipacious ami Gecure harbors in
(•Vance, where the largelt (hips-are
built "Wild iiaiioned, wn|i a munici
pality of yards and docks, nr.
fenals also furniflled wiil> amazing
quantifies of naval (lores. 111
1754, the Ehgiilh attempted to He
ftroy the worksof the fanner, but
the fchfitne- irajifpiiiug, and.the
French having previoufiy collected
a larger army than the invader*,
with a heavy train of artillery, the
British forces were difcomfited, and
General Talmarfh, the chief com
mander mortally wounded. No at
tempt of a like kind ha; been msds
on that important harbor with its
fortifications ever since.
Since the commencement of the
present war, there has not occurred
an event so pleasing, if dulyconfi
dered, as that which the last pac
kets announced, relpeiting ihe a
vowed neutrality of '.he Swedish
Court, for by this means a fate and
happy conveyance in neutral bot
toms.fonthe imcneufe quantities oi
our manufactures will take place,
and again let our Itarving artificers
to work.
United States.
CHARLESTON, (S.C.) J-ily 13.
Last Thnrfday arrived here, the
the sloop Alexander Hamilton,
Bacchus, in 6 flays from New Prt«
videuce. Capt. Bacchus was on his
paflage froni Aux-Cayesto Baltimore
when taken by the privateer fchoo
nei". May Flower, and carried into
Naflati ; where, on hisarrival, here,
ceived an order from the court o:f
admiralty to land his cargo ; »' 4 *
ing libelled on the plea of its being
French property. He landed it,
and supposes it will be condemned
and fold. The cap'ors alledged,
that they had found letters in a
schooner which they had taken*
few days before; purporting, that
the goods Jhipped on board the A
lexander Hamilton were French
property. The goods were (hipped
at the Cape by an American agent,
to an American house in Baltimore.
The brig State's-General, ps this
place, was taken on her pallage from
Cape-Francois to thi3 port, aittl car
ried into Bermuda, where both vef*
fel and cargo at e libelled, ''
W hen Captain Bacchus left the
\i
f:
•A'it was reporteS there,
tliai a French fleet of cowfiderable
forefi, bad fallen in,with the Britifti
. £ait aad Weft India outward bound
.fleets, undjer convoy of two men of
•war and four frigates, off Cape-Fi
iiUtcie, and captured 160 l'ail. This
report bad been corroborated there
by accounts from Cape-Francois, Ja
iuaica, and some other places.
ELIZABETH-TOWN, July t?.
On the lorlv inftaut, arrived here
in guod health, by the way of De
troit. Niagara, and Genefee river,
Oliver Spencer, of Columbia, in the
Weltem Territory, from whence
he was taken last July, by two Sha
wanele Indians', and carried into
their nation, where he was detain
ed a prisoner, until redeemed a few
jnonths palt, at the price of fitfty
pounds, through the kind inteipo
litjoi) of Col. Richard England, on
the application of the lad's numer
«us connections and friends.
t STAUNTON, July 6.
$ttra{h of a letter jro,m a gentleman in
the.Southern Territory of the United
States, to the Printers hereof, dated
KuoxvtlU, June 17.
<< I can a (lure yon from good au
thority, that the Spanilh govern
ment does not take an active part
•with the hostile Indians —but that
on the contrary, the government of
Louifianaf, has wrote more than one
letter to the Cherokes nation, dif
foading them from pnt'fuing their
hodilines againttthe United States.
Thcfe letters together with the cx
eriions, appeared to have the de
filed effedt on the minds of the In
dians, t'ney had agreed in council
tD to Philadelphia this fumuier,
to visit the President agreeable to
an invitation from him, and had a(-
fembled at the Hanging Maw s to
tonfult on the time of llartifig, and
the route they Ihould ptarfae, when
on the 12'h intrant, Captain John
Braird, who had been ordered out
for the prote<ftion of ihe frontiers
of this terr itory, with express or
ders fiQ ii Gov. Blount not to cross
tb» renelfee, having eroded it the
proceeding' night, attacked the
jjoiife of the Maw about break of
day, killed feveu fellows, one wo
rn at?-, and a white man, and wound
ed ethers, among the wounded
w/.isthe Hanging Maw, his wife and
foil, and among the killed were
Scamie and Charley, two chiefs
ir.oie difiinguifhed for their friend
lhip to the whites, than any other
Indians in ihe Cherokee nation.—l
fl .eerely hope, and it is the wish of
evejy friend to order in this terri
tory, that the (frong arm of the fe
deral government, ma; be exerctl
ed to' bs iilg to justice such daring
»Vola;i6us of the laws of our coun
try.
" The Indians flill continue to
rifeft our frontiers, pnrticularly
Mer>> diUriilt ; and [hough all the
chiefs .«f both the Cbeiokee and
Creek nations were to go to Phila
delphia, I am afraid our fitoation
W'nild not be bettered—the friend
fliip of tlvefe wandering aborigines
of I his country cannot he purcbafed,
and the manner in which Congress
attempt it, js'of all modes the molt
U'lfa-voiable to 'he aitfcinnient or
the ot jetk, -hey pick up fotiie who
are considered the principal rharac
tei s in the nation, and to belt-«bey
give extraordinary presents—and
who are they but thole who It-'ve
killed the molt whites ; and wiien
the young fellows fee such high te
wards bid for ihe scalps of the citi
zens of the Uni ed Sta es, they are
encouraged to take their ha.chet or
guji, and repair to our frontieil, as
the only wav to secure an honora
ble and friendly introduction to
Philadelphia.
mTIMORE, Jnlv 18.
Tht Inhabitants of Caps-Francois
TO THt
Inhabitants «/ Baltimore.
WHAT a piinlul and at the hine nine con
foline fprftarlr doe» the town o) nn ire now
fjidint' What lcen> *ol #I#and ass fci'.ng lym
pi'by ! What a ptel ne of wietchcdocfi aud bc
o. ficeiite !
{Utec eldping Iroff* Ihe honor i of fire »n(l
FummA—(win all the (uiy >h«t a horde ni fa»ag««
can br,fupp|fad captt'k of, whole fmili are in
to effiile lothe-fm*lkl friitiUK ni ol humanity
odi towuiy—abandoning out foi
tfSnes, fc?q:»ire(s Sv the tatfori of frrtm twenty !<►
thirty years; us-a iline of abfoltiie waut — »r. >fl
of us (tparated from our huiband?, our. wives,'
out parent#, our" children, our Uierids.— A pain
ful' resignation *io the (lifpcnf«>»iiiirs of piovidfiicc
was alone capaMcof atrcftmg ciic ciFcdls of our
defpatr :—But this Provide nee has givc.ioufljr re
ferred us once mote to talle of happifiefs—Savor
ing us with a rr.oli prosperous navigation, it has
condu£fced us to a hofpi table flvjre, where all
the citizens have received us with open arms—* r
where.every heart has expanded with pity for
our dif<Jonfola»e fiiuation— where every com on
and afiiUance has been most bountifully afford d
us-— scarcely were our misfortunes known to
this generous people, whe# an asylum was of
fered us in the boiom of iheir families—-i large
fubferiptmn opened—and all that-relief, only to
be expe&ed in a great and populous city, at
once found in the fwrgle: to<bu of Baltimore. t
Generous inhabitants of Baltimore ! receive
these public exptefiVms of a / gratitude that Hull
polfeif onr heaits till our laieft brpsth—.that fl-ja!l
be perpetuaied in the hearts of our children,
whom it shall be our duty to hiirij* up in these
frntiments for : We will inform them of the
benevolent reception 'you have given us; we
will tell them that it is you who. have restored
us to life—but how will it ever be poflible for
us to dcfcribe to them the obliging caics, the
delicate attentions, the engaging and kind con
cern you have rrMuifeiied to us—the mark's of
fympathv, the tender compassion you have
(hewn tor our fork-ring—the fwcet consolation
you have procured us—the tears you have f"hed
with us—and, in fine, the deep sense you have "
difcOvi icd ol the horrors ol our wretched faua
tion.
Receive the afTufances of a gratitude- whose
weight fits lighter on our hearts, from ac
companying your bmevolencc with a to'ichiug
fenlibility, that marks true generosity with all
those sHades of delicacy that infinitely enhances
its value.
Receive the assurances of all those fentimrnts
with which we are so deeply ptneirated, and
o! our fervent wifhts for a continuance of that
ptofperity of which you are so eminen'.Ty dc
ierving, from the honorable use you me fcc of "it.
Citizens, a bale calumny may poflibly ltrive
to puifue us to the fnehdly asylum you have
opened : but wi bcfcech you not to (ifteu to i:s
suggestions—to the k'mduefs you have already
shewn us, ?dd thai of being on your gu.nd a
gainst it.—Our enemies, envious of thai .humane
concern with which you endeavor to *niake us
forget our misfortunes, may endeavor Hill to
pcrfecute us, by attempting to rob us of
efteero. Alas! we trull we may with confi
dence fay that wedefcrveit—we deny with that
assurance that innocence alone can give, the dtf
pofitions rtjoft injurious imputed to us, of mak
ing rcfiUance to those laws dilated for us by our
country.
Virtuous Americans! be not. fgrprifcd that
we cannot convey to yoa the frnfe of-all.we feci
on this oceafion ; the great sensations of the
mind are tar beyond the rriofl impassioned pow
ers of language, and your hearts arc fufficiently.
acquainted with them to judge what mult be
the extent of our feelings.
TRENTO N, July 17,
The exports of the United ."States for (lie
year endiugon the last of September, amount,
ed to 21,035,568 dollar,. They stand thus t
Value ot' wares, goodi apd merchandise,
exported from each state, agreeably to the
abftraft laid before Coiigrefs, 27th February,
>793 Dollar s.
New Hampfliire, - 181,407
MalTachu'etts, - . 2,889,922
Rhode-Illand, - . 698,084
- - 749,9"5
New-York, - . .. 2,528^85
Pennrylvania,
Delaware,
Maryland,
Virginia,
North-Carolina,
South Carolina,
Georgia,
Dollars, 21,005,568
Mk.'Tsn no,
In the following extract from Mr. Trumbvll's
McFtnga! nay be traced the genuine features of
those writers in the National Caiztte x who arc tn
c jjjntly laboring to render the government of the
u»ion odious to the people. b\ giving it a place
in your paper you will oblige A Rrtder.
" YE dupes to ev'ry factiouS rogue,
Or tavernpratiig demagogue,
Whole tongue but rings with found more full,
On the empty drumhead of his. {bull,
Y u do not know what noisy fools
LI e you, worse simpleton?:. for tools 1
For Liberty in your own byfenfe
I? but for crimes a paVMit licence ;
To break of law th' Egyptian yoke,
And throw the *>oi Id in common stock,
Hedtice all grievances and ills
To Magna Charta of your wills,
Eflabl (h chea's and frauds and nonsense,
Fi am'd hv the model of your conscience,
Cry justice down, as out of Kafliion
And fix its Icale of dep'eciation,
Defy all c editors to trouble ve,
And oafs new vears of J*.w■ (h jubilee ;
Drive judge* our, like Aaron's calves,
ByjnrifJiftions of wli ti- Haves,
And make th-' ba and bench and steeple,
Snbnrit t' our fov'ieigi Lord the People ;
Affil e each k-ave his whole alfets,
By gen'ral amnesty of debt-;
plunder rile to pow'r and glory,
■And brand all property as tory^
Exoofe all wares to lawful leisure*
Of mobbirs a id monopolizers;
3'eak heads and windows and the peace, '
F .r yon.* own int'reft and increase j
Dispute a;'d pray and fight and groan,
Pgr public »r.J mean own.'
479
Philadelphia, Jiily 24.
y«B»fday.arrived here a (hip from Scot-
J4nd, prize to the Xebeque Sans Culottes, of
said to be worth forty tiiou:aLid
pounds ilefiiog;
Tjw privateer Sans Culottes, which cap
tured the Betfev, belonging to this port,
'tis fVtd, failed from Nantz the 2cJ:h April*—
consequently the account of that city's being
taken by the Royalists the 2lit, is premature.
The letter from Baltimore in our last, in
forming of an arrival in 32 days from Cork,
with an account of the defeat of the combined
army, turns out to be a mistake.
An ertprefs arrived in town last Saturday
frof it the Commiflioners to the hostile Indians,
■nid, we hear, brought favorable intelligence
■.rjjijVjftiiij tfce progress of the treaty, ,
foytfhe Salty, Capt. from Cape-Fran
cois, which (he left the 4th of July, we learn,
that at that time about one. fourth- of the
tQ-.vn remained (landing, but entirely defer ted
bv the white inhabitants. A few negroes re
mained, who' were employed *in burying the
dead. The ConiraifHoners Santhona* and
Polverel remained at Ha lit du Cap, a final!
<tiitan.ee from the town, attended by the inw
-lat toes, negroes, and their other adherents
The Commilfioners had ifTued orders to one of
' the mulattoe generals to disarm all the whites,
a$ It was fuppbfed peace could not be restored
to the island anti! they were deprived us all
power of interfering with the Coin mi (lionet's,
whose expre!'f business was to enforce the de
cree of the Convention of France, grantii.g
certain privilege's to the people of-colour.
A report is in town of the capture of Fort
Dauphin by the Spaniards.
In the Georg a Packet, from Charleston,
came padengers,.Pierce Rutler, Esq. Senator
of the United States, and Wm- Sjviith. Esq.
a ;Rep re Tentative in Congress, of S. Carolina.
kxtratl oj a fetter from Captain Bmh-ardO'BrY
a n, a prij'nnrr at Algiers r datrd December 29M,
1 792, dud eighth ye fir oj hi yQaplivitx,
u - last I gave you Tome infor
matipn relative fa the Spanish AmbaiTador,
being commiflioned to try to obtain a Peace
with this Regency tor Portugal, but I believe'
this propofit-on was strongly oppoftd by the
Aigerine Ministry; at present there is no
thing said on this fubjeft.
ii - Prulfia has obtained Peace with the Al
gerines through the mediation of Spain ; the
terms are seventy thousand sequins, a tribute
every two years, and consolatory presents.
44 This Peace appears very mysterious to
me—l suppose it is a temptation held out to
Prufiia by the Spanifli Court, to join the con
federacy of despots aga nft the French.
44 Should the Portuguese be so happy as to
obtain a peace with the Algerines, what
would be the fatal confequtfnce to the Anie
rican commerce? A inoft tempting argument
has been held out to the Regency here, by the
Spanish Consul, namely, that they would be-
makers of the great ft#, as no maritime
power would then be capable of prevent ng
their cruizersfrom visiting the Atlantic ocean,
whenever they thought proper.
14 We are daily expe&i-g to hear foine
thing from America lelating to a peace ; —'
the sum has been a r certained fmce last April
by MeliVs. Bnfhara and Diainio, and I hope
Congress will take this matter into their nioft
ferjous jponfideratior!—-ll* .the terms are re
je&ed no peace will be afterward? •
I fay nothJnw; a^"T 11 uC "PP® 31 "
- ..vftig victims of American Inde
pendence.
3,820,1
" Our humane countrymen in Europe have
made out to remit us a monthly allowance to
alleviate our fuffcrings, fur which they 're
ceived the orde. s of Cor.grefs fourteen months
ago.
2,5-53,258
3,5:9.499
5 32,294
2,917,9:9
458.973
u Suppose a peace (hould take place—-is it
just,- that an unfortunate remnant of Ame
ricans should remain in captivity, at a time
ivhen »great part of the world are enlight
ened by the 3anie of Liberty.
" We are all in the marine except Sloan—
Slave* have become very fcarre^—Every na
tifcr are ranfoniing their subjects cxcept the
Americans, a number of whose brethren have
been right ycdfs in this city of bondage—
I havcjuft returned from a hard day's work."
A.special Peflion of the Suprume Court of
the .United States is now holding in this city.
\Te hear that the impoi tant qnellion will be
determined, whether it i'. compatible with the
principles of neutrality for the citizens of the
United States to enter 011 board French
crui:cr3.
A veflel is arrived at Boston, which left
Liverpool the firft ofJune; ft-.e brings no act
count of the capture of the Eritilh fleet—nor
any other intelligence of a later dare than has
been already publilbed.
A new City Directory Ujoft pnbiiihed by
.Mr. Dobson, corre&ed to-the prelent time-
Sold bjf the BoaliGellers generally, price five
eights of a dollar.
A JgJNT to tht CtmminJcr) Ships of
Wni-. ljF
YOU have now a fair opportunity ofdifpof
' V'gf of your prize money, «r part of it, to tru.
■iy charitable ptn pnfer Nun.berj of Jyouc.
~brethren ftom Cape-Franc^'-;,are in futFering
circomfta: ces, dsfpeiied thr£>i.gh the leveral
'cities and town? on tie 'Continent:; driven
to l'«»e their lire? from t!icir country by the
cruclliand ofnrxdcrom *ar and anarchy—
•Sorely theirdiftrefles d.-fcrve ccmmil'e.'ation
and relief!
This till is not intended to 'effrn rh.« cha
ritable donation' ofou' citze"-—wt-.r, •
fcfsr, their zet', i' liipii'j jrg the
wtntjnf thrift WftrelM Sra -ten.
Wlint i* a flat? as Wa«* f Ask rhe urfSr
ttinat?s tfoisi Cape-Fraucwß ? Luooire of the
the mertfiaoi-, the farfaersl of
C?-s?at : B itainbeijg'd thou lards add umis of
thousand . of the sons of indtittr y and ingenui
ty dmijiJld* from their looms, their
their manufacturing- ho life.— aot knowing
wnich way to turn or what to do : rhe ftreains
ot lupport are exhausted—their pockets tail
receiving their weekly families
are deftftute, then* children cry for b>ead t ifi
a land which perhaps the day btfo- e " ed
with milk and honey."—Lun human nature
con tern plate the fbe-.e without horror J But
it this sketch contains the brig; = f hdf- < : tie
medal, what must the ievej;fe be ? T.''c?'e arc
bus as the negative milcrie* 'y.i'war; though
in every commercial maftufaftu ir>g and agri
cultural court Cry, similar evils are inevitable*
Vet when we extend onr views to Irenes
where havoclepds the front, and farhinC clofcs
the i'ear, what an Sfcq-uifite edge is gfiteri to
our painful fenfarionw—can it lie pwiMb'e
that there-are-in. tiiis happy icob'ntry,-
being"? in the fiiape of men, who aciv\>t;ak3
measures etfa&ly calculated to plunge us into
tin? dreadful fit nation ?—Forbid it Heaven 1
There are a th.oufand particulars, fays a
correspondent, m which the circumstances of
the people of the United States are altered
for the better, in confecjuence of the opera
tions of the general government. J*et any
man of the least cantjor advei t to the-contraft
between the present lit nation of the mechanics
of the United State*, particularly in our sea*
ports, and what it was immediately preceding
the adoption of the NVw Conffctutioi —and A'
it does not produce emotions of patriotic gra
titude and pleasure, it mutt be owing p» the
want of every principle which enters into the
coinpofition of a good parent, or a good.citi-
2en.
ARRIVED at the POi< I aj F-HILADEIPiI [A.
Ship Wjlhinyon, Geor, Cayrntit
Bug Georgia Park t, Bariowt, Ch-»Utt.>n
Carolina,
Sch'r. Peggy, '
Sloop Driver,
Extratt cf a Utter from Neuj-York, dated Friday
morning July 19. J
44 News of the day is, That a privateer
which fa led frotn Bpitdn for
to £et a French commission, <xn her way t.ii
the;- took an English Ihip, which was retaken
and with the p'ivateer ca vied'into Halifax
bv a British cruiser, and the privateer's crew
harmed." •
Yefterelay arrived here the bri* Betft-y,
capt. Glsrk, of this port, from which "flje railed
some time ago, and arrived at St. Bartholo
mew's, where (he took in a cargo of coftee,
&c. failed for Hamburg, and on the iy't of
June, oil'the \Vefteril lil ind-, was'hoa; ded by
the French Xebeck privateer belonging to
NTanres, called the Saps Culottes, of teo
guns, 9 pounders,' and 100 men. The Com
mand? r of tH^ftrjgateel'. r?ior. r nnlt
'poffejlinn of the BetfeyJ' upon fufpiciori oF7;.?r
cargo being Dutch property. The Sans Cu
lot.tevhad captii'eda Pbituguezeb ig from
Opo to bound to Bremen, and the fb'; J Flora
ofGlaf:oW, laden with dry gond'- Jof Antigna.
and Jamaica, and had oo l*>ard 14 male nr.d
female paflengsr*-
Robestfoiv--*" "Stilus. The'F'loia~s ci go is
»a 1 nccl at C (.lurk part
ed with the privateeY ai d prize ten day*
about leagues from the coaft> bblli bound
to this port.
6 per Cir.tj, 18'"3
3 per C-nts, jcji "
Deferred, lt /i
full fharej Bank IT. S. 6 percent, adv«
(£5" Hal lam and He.nry beg leave to in
form jhctr friends and patron?, that they have
cnmpleat?d their Steam Ventilator* andfhuee
themselves the Theatre will be found lu-future
much cooler than any othp.r oubhc building m
Philadelphia. 1 ,* .•
New- Jersey, ) TVY virtue of 2 Writ to me
SuJJex Luunty.il. { J3 directed, ifTu<-d out of
ihe High Court of Chancery of New'.Jerfey, at
the suit of William Shipley against John Ming
and others ; I fhal! expose to faleat Public Ven
due, on the firth day of February next, between
thehouts of Twelve and five in the Aftcrq on
of the fame day, on the Prrmifcs, the following;
described Trad of Land, with its appurtenances,
fituatr in the Townfhip'of Oxford and 'County
of SulT x, beginning at a Chcfnut Oak Tree,cor
ner of Daniel Cox's land, and Handing in the
1 1 tie of a foimer survey mace to Thomas* Steven*
son, being vnatked wi h the letter B. and thcnce
extending along Coxc's line (firft) south fifty de
grees wrd filty-five chains and ftvenly-fivc link',
to a B ack-OakTree corner of Joseph Shi a pen's
land (second) fouih nine degrees and fiti.cn mi
nutes, w< ft mom chains and fixty-five -links 10
a fofked White-Oak Tree, masked wi;h the let
ters R and B another of the fa id Shippen's cor
ners (ilmd) thlnce norih eighty degree*,.caft one
hundred and forty-five chains, to a post on the
fnuthtily fide of Paquaofle-P iver,' belis» also a
corner of John Reading's land (fmi.th) thence
north Itmfy-r.iiYe degrees w« ft, one tiunrircd
and thi* tv-' wo cbains to the piace of beginning,
containing nine hundred and thirty acres with
iht usual allowance for toads and high ways-—
The f2me Premises are within v -;ht miles of the
Rivet D Uware ? andihere it thereon a tonveni
(tit Grift MfH with two- pa r «./ Sre>ne«V» Saw
Mill m ;;o«»d repair, V. iih a Efficient ft 1 cam of
water" for their use—a Dwelling floufe, Stoic
Honfe, and fcv« rai ffaatt build r.r s.
MARK THOMPSON,Sheriff.
Ddui d*y aj Jub, i7<j!f
Hm-Ttnk biarj.
SHIP NEWS.
G.iyola,
Gr.'i.y fb'jry,
Cai pt.ruer,
Skelly,
Wilson,
PRICE GF STOCKS.' -
ADVEK TI SEME N T. ~
Nt'.w Or-h'acs-
JJ, Cjjylina
' Ghfii Ir[t(in
Fort au FrmceDtU. it:. DUiAts.
' —TT Oil, Dittft pr cafe ' 25 C 1"
PRICE c U R R E N I . Sot,,, bc&, in tU<ks,?r.LoK 10 S'
«;• 100 cem * - ch
——-Tram 2 4 2 «
PHILADELPHIA, July 24- whji? , 5 1
a oils.a*. du».tt». eon " v-"*' ■ ':.f 11
• A 0 1 ondon, pr.do*.
iVmCHORS pr.l». 7 American ditto bot.incl.
&iiu<ri } £n«riiih. pr.cwt. 433 Pitch, pr.bbl 1 73 2
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. Pork, Burlington, per barrel, ,b
Aihes, pot, per ton, _—Lower county l * 5 C
Pearl, »37 H° c „ rtilll
Arrack pr. gall. 1 33 g. Peas, Albany pr. b.fhel 13
Brandy, common, _ pr.lb. 3°
Cnniac 9 Pimento
Brazilctto,pr. ton. or t n
Brick,, pr. M. .4 I 7 befl, pt. keg 7
Bread, (hip, pr. ext. * *7 D tlo pr. jar 3 33
Ditto, pilot , . 4 Onto pr. box 3.-B _
p:t;o, fma'.l water, per ktg 3 « 4° R.« pr.cwt *7H '
BeJr. American, in bottles, Rosin pr.har.fi
pr.dot. bottles included, » 74 Ru™,r. gallon
Ditto pr. barrel, 6 *»"$" g6
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 2° Umdward
New England >4 Barbados 6o
———Oak M 1 ——Country,
Merchantable pine 2 4 Salt petre, pr. cwt: >4 33
—-—-Sap, do. SalTafras pr. ton 6
Mahogany, prrfoot ' c Shot ditto >4° '4 l I
The above are the lhallop prices, Steel, German pr.lb. 9
tor the yard price, add 1 dol- Eng!ifh,blifleied, pr. cwt. 10
lar 33 cents per 1000. Amei lean pr. ton "*3 33
Brimstone in rolls, pr.cwt. 2 67 - -Crowley s pr. fag c ot
Beef, Boston, per ba'r.el >= Snake root pr. lb. 4
Country ditto 9 »° c Brown per lb. goer
oer cwt. 3 33 4 6 7 — ™ hlte ~
Butter pr.lb. *6 j Castile
in ke?s >° 12 * ta " h , . 4 SCo
Candles. Sperm, pr.lb. 47 Snuft pr. doz. bot 4 5
— Wax 53 56 Spermaceti, refined, pr. IK *
Myrtle Wax J 3 Sailcloth,Engli(h,No.i.pr. yard, 4°
■Mould, tallow *3 Boftonj No. I. ditto
_ Dipped 12 No. 11. "25
Cheese, Englifli, pr. lb. 20 Stig'nr Lump, pr.lb
Country 8 *-3 Loaf, firigle refined
Chocolate J 5 * Ditto, double do.
Ciniiamou a 4° 2 Havannah', white M
Cloves 1 33 Ditto, brown, ,0 ' 11
Cocoa pr. cwt. 10 11 Muscovado, pr. cwt 9
Coffee pr.lt>. *4 . Spirits Turpentine pr. gallon 2^!c;
Coal pr. bulhel 2 4 33 Salt, Allum pr. bufoel 23,
Copperas pr.cwt. 1 —-Liverpool 33
Cordage, American, per cw t. 10 £adiz 25 p
Cotton pr.lb. £ 7 3' - —Lilbon 2 ' n
Cut rants 13 Shipbuild. W. O. frames p.ton, po ~
Duck, Rufiia, pr.ptece 14 5 Ditto Live Oak, «
- R r C | n i 1. i 3 ao Ditto red cedar, per foot 37 45 t
Dutch fail duck, '5 Shingles, t S inch, per M. g33 3^7.
Feathers pr. lb. 4® Ditto 2 feet, 650 6
Flax ditto 12 Ditto 3 feet, drcfled, »3 1 5
Flaxfeed pr. buCh. c Staves. Pipe pt. iooo 3 ?
Flour, Superfine pr. bariel 33 White Oak hoglhead, 20 .
6 Red do. 19 o° ;
— r ßur befl 5 Leogan 21 33 ;
•w—Meal, Indian 3 'o Barrel
——ditto Rve, 3 33 Heading * 32
—Ship-ftuff pr. cwf. >4? 1 Skins, best pr. pietii 467
?uftic pr- ton, ao —-Minks so 4°
Gin, Holland, pr. cafr, 466 Fox, grey <0 So
Do. Pr gall. 9 c Drtio red 1 *0 ,
Glue, pr. cwt. i_ ao «' 33 Mart.ns *4 « '
\v 1 uge 1, «nlte j^ce,. per lb. ; Fisher? 33 D 7
Ditto, common 7 Bearj 3
D't'-o,,ground pr. lb. —Racoont '7 6c 1
Ginseng, 20 a 4 Muflorats 11
6unpowder,cannon, pr. q.calk, 3 73 4 Braver, pr. H>. *33
Ditto, fine glided 4 -l—Dccj, in hair 3"
Grain Wheatpr.bat,, 93 ,jc Tar>?) . Jer „ y . gi b6l .
0 ;„ !! Carolina, 3 « gall. 2
, , P pr.bbl. *3.1
—K: . . »jj»
Bed shelled pr. lb. ' 0 !d 4
——3uckwiieat, per bush. 4° Rappahannock p 33
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 160 Coloured Maryland, 533
American, pr. lb. 4 £ Dark,
Herring-, pr.bbl. 3 L °" S " ! '' a / * 4 °
•7 Hides, raw pr. lb. 9 t 2 v 3
Hops »7 Carolina,new a J 3
Hogshead hoops, pr. M. ij ' ° ,c) ; 3 33
« ~ _ . ,i , Tea, Hyson pr.lb. 93 » 28
Pidigo Frcnch per lb. t67 Hyson Ik n, 53 60
Carolina Souchong, 93
. Irons, fad pr. ton, »3S 33 Coflgo, 43 jc
V«n, Callings pr. cwt. 3 4 Bohes , 33 j6
Bar pr. toA, Tallow, refined, per lb. Q
t ; 5 73 33 T ' n pr box ' *'3 33 '3 «5f
Nailroda toi 33 Vefdigreafe pr.lb. 47 53
Jjnk, p.r. cwt. 4 5 Vermillion, do. 33 167
Lard, hogs. pr. lb. .9 iC Varnish, per gallon 33 37
Lead, in pigs pr. 533 5 Wax, Bees pr.lb. 27
—-—in bars • 7 Whale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 00
white 10 10 67
_ rc d 6 40 6 6 Wine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 176 226
Leather,foil, pr.'lb. 17 sc Lisbon , s o 126
lignum, vitas pr. ton, S6O 6 Tenenffe, pr. gallon 63
Logwood 30 i 2
Mace pr.lb. 9 Port pr. pipe ~333
Mackarel,b c ft pr.bbl. 8 D.tto in bottles, pr.d ol . 4
-f court quality 4 S"' arct ~ 4 6 .
il.idder K V ; ft Pt.' % >6 Sherry pr.gall. po 110
!farl)U, Wno«((H», pr. foot, !33 *6; Malaga . 77 80
>!aft spars daio 33
Mobiles pr. gall. 30 4 c
Mustard per. lb. 8:
W . in bottles, pr.doz. » ?.c
Nails, iod.\2d. and %od. pr.lb. ic
NutMegs pr. lb. 7 8
Oil, Lirtfeed, pr. gall. ;c
- —-.Olive 87
Stock Brokers Office r
N<r.t6, Watl-ftreet; N'iw-Yo**.
'T'HESuHfcrib'ei inieridinj; to eonFne himfelf
1 entirely to the Pt'R'CHASr & SALE or
STOCKS <m COMMISSION, begs leave to of
fer f'' cnt ' s and others, in the
Jine Broker. TtioTe who may jplcsTe
-IP fc»l*nef», may depend
upon with thcutmofl fide
lity and|d»vpi^<%£;-,
Ofders Iplin, Boflon, or any
4 V* te ?« willbe-ftriflly
attended IQ*
{•.!,) LEONARD RLEECKRR.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, per £ .100 ftcrl; 456
at 60 days *$3 33
at c
ofl|i pr. guilder,
— 9^Br«.
Vmfterdam,
BANK 0/the UNITED STATES
JULY tft, 1793.
NOTICE is hereby given that there viil he
paid at the Bank after the tcth inft?nt, to"
the Stockholder* or their Reprefentattve* duly
authorized, FOURTEEN DOLLARS and
FIFT Y CENTS for e?ch Share, being the divi
dend declared for the last fix months.
By order,
JOHN KF.AN, Oibier.
<T3 W
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be had at SAMUEL COOPER'S Ferry
480
R V L J". S •
r „ >,eobfc.vcd in faulting 1 """ ,ls wUl ' IUC
Insurance Company
OF NORTH-AMtRICA.
1 ;S* lorW-yn
. nvilrhou.. ».ur the o.dcr for ,nfuran«
!a opted " thr office and .he policy mult be
ft? -sir, r-t& 1
mull be give:., in len day., payable
' For° Am'cican and Weft-India rife|ues, »
|, rfC „„.hs a'tcr the dated he policy.
for h uiopra" rifqura, ' n "* months.
F , Inda and Clv.na . ifqucs, in is montht.
For 1 r.ueshy Ihe year, ... eigm months.
Fo, ..(que. to. fix mouths, «» »onr muuihs.
A..d to. .i!qut» toi any Ulta lin.e, .« th.ee
offtt will be paid in It* Jayl after proof
and adjuftitient ; but .f .he note given lor ibe
Irrniun. lhall no. have become due w.lh.n .hat
I U„n . the .mount ot it lhall, neve.thelefs, be de
dufled 'rom the lots to be paid.
TUt Insurance Company of North-Ame
he.ebx five notice toall whom it may concern,
that, aire- ablvto .lie above rules, they are re «dv
to receive all Oldera lor inlurance, which may
he addnftd lothem. accompanied w.thdi.re-.
tiom to Ome refponfihle bouse in Philadelphia
for ihe payment of the premiums within the
"in c'll tVVifques offered lhall be apnroved,
Ihe infurao.e lhall h, immediately effefled ;
nthfTwife notice shall be given, either by anlwer
m the pt-.lon apolyini;, or IO lr.s agent, in Phila
delphia, ai may be oiderrd.
, ' |}y rtrdet ol the Dtrjfao.s,
wil EBENtZER HAZARD, SecVy.
jj I
'i
3
II
1
c«
ft
\[
I
, s«
INSURANCE COMPANY.
PHiLAfiB-LfHiA, July ill, 1/93'
NOTICE is heteby ijiveii 10 i he membi is ol
(he Infu'ance Company ot North Ameri
ca, that the Di' fto.s have declared a divdrnd
(to this dav) of fax per cent on theamouni ot the
i fiift inllalmcnt, and of one per cent per month,
ni thf turns paid towards the second and thud
inftalmcMf, calculating fioni :he li>ft day of
the month following ihat in which ihefe pay
ments were made. The Divided will be paid
t» the Stockholders or ibtir Repiefenistives, at
the Company's Office, (No. 119. Front-
Street) »t 3IIV time after the 7th >oft.
KBKNF.ZFR HA7ARI>, Sec'ry.
As the members rf this < mpany are much
iiflerfed throughout the United State), the Printers
inthefatraljlaicure requejled to give the il« «
tlace in their tievjbapers.
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprietors e/riAGlafi-Manufaaoty, under
jhc'Tirm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GRF.GOR and Co.
BFG leave to inform the puHit, (hat ibet have
„ ,w Wrought their WINDOW-GLASS t<r
such pcr f t'flion, ,8 will be found,on com pan foil,
be equal, in quality, to 'be best Loudon
Crown G'lafr.
Havm. fixed their prices at a lowrr rateihan
imported Glass. they are inducejrto believe, that
1 mportauoiis of this article will be di {continued,
in proportion as their works are cxtenced
They p.opofc to enlarge the fc»>s of t>u, bufi
„ef.; ami as the fu. cets of it will depend on the
t f, irirwx «, * L - r ~Klir, they brg leave 10
solicit their.friendly patronage in the purfuir of
a bunch which will inter eft e\ cry lover of
American M a n 0 sac t u r'f s.
All order* lor Wi ndow-G lass, of any size,
will he rrcvivrd at the Store of Rhodes and
MacGrfgor, No. 234, Queen-Orecr, New-
York, and at tlie Glals Wa r ehoi»fc, N0..48,
Maiket-ftrect, Albany, which will be punftu3iiy
attended 10.
WANTED, fix smart active LADS, not
exceeding 16 of. age, to be indented as
Apprentices, and regularly inftru&td in ihe
various branrhes of Glafs-Mdking.
Alfa, three Window-GUfs M*ke'ri, to whum
enccuiagcrnent will be given,
May 1, 1793.
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, May 27, 1793.
Dollars Reward.
WriEREAS a certain THOMAS SLOiS
GANTT, has lately made his escape
from Baltimore County Gaol, to which he was
committed under a charge of havin® robbed the
E?ftern Mail, on the 28th day of January Uft
Notice is hereby given, that a reward of five
I hundred dollars will be paid at this Office, to
any prrfon or persons who fnall apprehend the
said Thomas Slofs Gantt, and deliver him into the
custody of the keeper of the said Gaol,
thecuflody of euher of the Ma>(ha!s within the
United S'ates, so that the said Thonas Sfofs G&nlt
may be secured, and forth coming to
answer the above mentioned cha»ge.
4* *3®
40
The following is a description of the above
named Thomas Sloss Gantt : He is about
fix feet highj llrait and well made, has light co
loured h2ir, tied behind, fair complexion and
has acfcwn look when spoken to.
Madame Docttf., wife of M. Dovtte, an
inhabitant du-q»mtier ce Vallierts, loft her huf
hand in the d;fafters of ihe Cape on the 20th
June last. She is ignorant of his fate—She rc
quefts that those who may have it in thei»" power
to give her any information her huf
hand, would lend h to the house ol Mrs. Hud
son , Kigh-ftrcet, Bzlamorc, where she resides,
or to Madame Qi'an.te, 'n the fame ftrerr.——
A re-pub'icaticn cl the afove'&y ihe [tueral trirters
ts refuejiid. V
epi:w
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Toji-Mojler General.
To -the i
TllEEtJitorDftlicGAZtTni "
StatV.3, proposes pißlVßiini tl,e I*P ' *
under that Title, every Eveniog, Souda; Vs
excepted.
To render it interesting as a Daily Publi
cation, it fliall contain foreign and domett-,
commercial and political Inteil £ etlfe Kf
fays and Observations, local and general:—
Maritime information s—rPrice* Current 1 1
Merchandize and the Public Fund-;. Also *
summary of the proceeding* of Congre s, an.}
of the Legislature oi this State •— u 1
(ketch ofOngreffional Debates, &£.
AUvEßTtzrvo favors will be g*»te(uUy. re-
ceived.
TERM S.
To be printed on papeVbf the d-iTi* fiz£ J' -
but a larger size, lhallbe fubllituted m Oeciiior
ber next.
The price Six Dollars per Anrum, to br
paid half Yearly.
When a fofilrfent riuraWrwHhibftfrfterj 1*
obtained, the Paolication ftraH tommeo(*.
In the inte.rirti, thi Gazette Ofil! he pfabfiffj
ed twice a week as ufival.'—SpbfcViptions a tie
. 1 . H - A .ic ■ it * A •
refpeAfnlly solicited by the PnblicVimmbir
fer»ant, ■ . _,
JOH-J4 PENNO, ■ .
SvlJ!tif>tion art rrttmtidt lit CitfJamTk,'
South Secoiti SiiM—iy Mn Bfikjm. 4t
Hmfe-n-iy otlur ptrJpyii ati& W y(.faj[t&»n
Jinpliyn petti/*« Editor at ih httfc
t,'a. 34,, A!ort% FiJlH'Streei. '
Philadelphia. Jufy. i 793?
THE tOII OK
MOST ratvejlh rcque/ls tlioje «J h's ot*i SuU
fcrihe's who are in arrririJor !> * Gez 'tte, to makt
payment as jfioiat ptJjkMe.—Thife perfcm who have
receivedfikfcripHoi money itn his euccant ate jiprci
to remit trie fame. The arrearage*.}"' 'Gazelle
hive accumulated- jfi ajkrittus anupirt—Serious, at
they are the or>l\ fffiarie to Vfv f riouS
engagements incurred in 'the pnifmicno) 'tin ex
pert/we publication. HhikdtMpiiia, jiirti i-6.
7VST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Book fetter, at the Stone- in Saend frret,
f'HILADffI.PWTA,
VOLUME IX, o.
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
OR, A DICTIONARY Of AR'! S. SCIKNCIS,
AND M ISCF.I.LANEOUS j.ITFRrtiL'RE,
On a Plan entirely rtetx> :
BY WHiCH
THE »»T SCIENCES aj.O ARTS
are dmeiied into the Form of 13iilii)£t,
TREATISES or $Y6TEM&:
Tills VOLUME COKUIM
TtYRKOSTATiCS, Hvg.nmmr, Hi«o.» of
iJL Japan, I.cflan'd, j.rufajem t Jttvs, India,
}nfc£t«, Irtfurante, Ireland, Italy. IC«rri ; naik*,
Knighiho'»d, Language, Lav/,
with a great variety of B.ojgrapr>\e«l arid Miwel
laneous AmcW.—lliuftratec with thirty-ouc
elegant Copperplates.
CONDITION' S.
[. The-work .a printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, {cast (or the pu-poie) kH'cH
will be occafvonaUy renewed before they cou
traft a worn appearance,
[I. The work is fu*nifi>ed in boards, in volumes
or half-voiwmes, as fabferibers chufe; the prif•
ot the whole volumes, five dollaf s each, ot the
JialUvoiuipes two dollar 2rtd two-thirds ol a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on fub
fcrib nr f the volumes or half-volomcs finifhed
to be paid for wfrtn delivered, the price of ore
volume to be paid. \n advance,and Jhe price of
each fleereding volume to b*/ paid on deliver
ing cKc volume preceding it. Ro pan of the
work will be delivered nnlefs pwid for.
111. fn the eourfeof the publication v/ill be r?f
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which !y
far exceed in number $hose given in any oth<?f
fcientific dictionary, , At the clofr of the putv
lication will he delivered an elegant frontis
piece, tht dedication, preface, and propel
tie pa-ges for the different volumes.
It is expcOed the work will he com pi i fed ifl
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
The fubfeription will continue open on ih«
above terms till the firft day of September next»
to opportunity to those who arc not yet
(übfcribei-s, to cr>rne forward.
Those who have fubfcribcd, and got only *
small pari of the work, arc requeued to com
plete their setts, as far as published, as soon «
poflible, as alter the fit ft of next September, by
which t»me the tenth volume is expected to be
ready, the publi(her will nf>t consider hirnfejf
bound' to make up th'ofe sett* which are not
comoleted up to that period.
Philadelphia % Jwe 19, 1793. 1
Hercule De Sexcey,
From Leogditc* Island of St. Domingo,
MAKES a»id fell* -41 fo.ts of Mu?s Jarks»
Porringrrf, Cups, S:ew-Paos, &c«
iu Tin, plain 01 jipanned —He also mends old
liti work. As he works cheap, he hopes foi thi
public toc^uragement.
No. 53. Race-llrcet, near Front-ftreflt.
lune »2.
HERCULE DE SERCET,
DE Leogane, Isle de St. Dominque, travfillc
en fer Blanc, de toiite forie de panicles a
commande ct a bon marche.
A Philadelphie, ce 22 j-'iu. »793-
Ko. 23, Race-fireet, pres Jfiout-fcree:.