&(tzdU
a national paper, published Wednesdays and D „ ,
' A^6 BV JOHN F ENS'O, No. 34, NCXlll f / hVH-STREEI, PHW.ADI Uhi
[No. no of Vol. IV.]
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Bookfclicr, at the Stone-Hoxfe, Secvni Jircc,
Philadelphia,
VOL U M F. IX, or
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
«K.A DICTION Ait Y Of ARTS, SCIENCES,
"» MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan intirel\ new :
wHI c H
T>H« D<r FEKINT SCIENCES AND ARTS
.arcdi B eftcd into the.Form r>f D'.rtintt
TREATISES OK SYSTEMS : '
THIS VOLUME CONTAINS
HYDROSTATICS, Hygrometer, History of
Japan, I.eland, Jrrufalem, Jews, India,
Vrft-fl*, Insurance, Ireland, Italy, Kamfcha'kß,
Language, Law, L'nerdtmain,
with a great variety of Biographical and Iriifcel-
Jaucous Anieles,—-Illuflrated wilt thirty-one
elegant Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. Ihe work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (call for the pmpofe) which
Will be occasionally renewed before they con
trail a worn appearance.
11. The work is furn..Vd in b.vanls, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubfenbers chufej the price
ot the whole volumes, five dollars each, of the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on fub
fcnbing, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
lo be paid for w hen delivered, the price oil one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each fuccced ing volume to be paid on deliver,
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unJefs paid for.
111. In the course of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Phil.idelnhia : which by
far exceed in number thrfe given in any other
icienufic dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
picce, the dedication, preface, and propel ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It is expected the work will be comprised in
*bout cigh'een volumes in quarto.
The lubferiplio i will continue open on the
above terms till the full day of September next,
to give opportunity to thofc who are not yet
fubferibers, to come forward.
Thole who have fubfciibed, and got only a
-{mall part of the work, al4 requeued to con>-
jplete their setts, as fir a$ publilhed, as soon as
pofTible, as after the fir ft of hext September, by
which time the tenth volume is expected to be
ready, the publisher will not coniider hjmfelf
bound to make up thofc setts which are not
Completed up to that period.
Philadelphia, June 19, 1793.
FOR SALS., BY -u
MATHEWCARE Y,'
At bis -Stcrre, No. n£, Market-fti'eet,
PntLAOtirHiA,
r nHE AMERICAN MUSEUM, from its
JL commencement in January, 1787, to its
termination in D.cember, 1792, in twelve Vo
lum s, price, neatly bound and lettered* nine
leen dollars and one fifth.
The opinion of the Piefident of the United
Stacs, refpetling this work, is as follows :
' 4< I believe the American : Mufcum has met
*vith extensive, I may fay 4 with universal ap
probation from competent judges ; for I am of
Opin ion, that the work is not only cmineuily
calculated 10 d idem in ate political, agricultural,
t>hilofophical, and oth r valuable infoi mation ;
but that it h,«g been uajovmly conducted with tape,
fittcntion, and propriety. It 10 these importaivt
pbje&s be fuperadded the more immediate de
15sa of rescuing public documents from obli
vion— I will venture to pronounce, as my fen
fimcnt, THAT A MORI V SET If J. LITERARY
."■AN HAS NEV'ttt BEEN UNDERTAKEN IN
AMERICA, or one MORE deserving OF PUB
LIC ENCOURAGEMENT.'*
J unc 5'
FOR SALE,
1360 Acres of excellent
fARMING or TOBACCO
LANDS,
IYING iii the county of Amherft, in Ihe
-J itate ot Virginia, on one oi ihe principal
branches of River, within fm inilcs of
ihr latter, from whcncc it is nav'gabU lor boats
of ten or twelve tons burthen,
Besides the advantage? of ihefe lands, for the
farmer or cultivator of tobacco, they are sup»
ppfed, from a small though fuccefiful c*peri
ir.cnt made by the iatcCol. Chifwell, lo contain
an abundance of metals, wtiich. if not of a p>6-
fious (as lias been ex en funpofed) arc certainly of
» teiy valuable kind. The better however to
• fcertain th.s fart, and plice the purchaser oil a
fjfe foonng, in so hazardous a bu fine fa, ai all
those fubterranenus researches, without the ut
tnoftcertainty of an abundance of the dtfi'ed
ore, arcfupDofed to be, every reasonable and
nc< elLry alliftancc or indulgence will be ren
der d thole inclined to make the expeiiinent, as
ve/1 as every other ncceffary informal ion given
by the printer of thu Gazette in Philadelphia, or
JOHN NICHOLAS.
QhajUttcfvillc 9 Virginia.
This day is by
M A T H E W CAREY,
No. 118, Maikci-ft teci, Philadelphia,
No. VI. of
Guthrie's Geography,
IMPROVED,
The terms of Subscription may be fern in (he
propo.Llj, at large.
TI-JIS valuable work will contain (exf/ujive
oj the maps in the London edition *'792)
maps lit X<■ w-I]dn»j.>lhire f Mvllacbuleit Cofi
ne6lirirt f R Ml,md, Vermont, N.Yofk, N\
I'cnntylyaniD, Delaware, Maryland, Vir
ginia, Kentucky, N. Carolina, S. Carolina,
(«corgin, Switzerland, the Dtfcover ies of Cap
tavn.s Cooke ami Gierke, and toe countries
round t.he North Pole.
Besides the great iraiprovcmentf in t-he Ame
rican Geography, tf.c accounts of Fiance will
be extrj£led from ifir French Geography, pub
lathed since the rcvoiuiioiv; the-map of Eiancc
will be engraved ariwaidy io ihe division into
departments : the "hilloiy of Ruflia, which, in
the London edition, is cariicd no fan her than
'77S> 'k continued to I'ht- late execrable fnvuftoti
of Poland by Catharine : the account ot Swe
den his been compiled anew, and numberless
othc» imp.oven.nils will be made in this edi
tion.
*** Sub for ipi ions are received byihel»ook
fcjlers in Bo lion, New-York, Baltimore, Wil
mington, R chrwund.'Chatlcftoii, &c. &c,
■}""<• '9-
N 0 T I C E.
'"P'HE STOCK.HOLDE RS in the SOCIETY
± tor ESTABLISHING USEFUL M.SNU
FACIURES, arenquefttd to take noiice, that
tiki fourth pnd Jaft paynunt is due, and must be
tnjde on or before the I3'h day of July next,
either to the Calhier of che.United States Bank
Office of Discount and Deposit at N'w-Yirk—
the Cashier of t*ie Bank of New-York—the
Cashier of the Bajik of the United Siatesin Phi
ladelphia— 01 John Bayard, Esq. in the eity of
New-Biunfwick, in the fratt of New-Jei fey.
And that the ftiarcs of all peifons neglecting to
make Inch payment, 'and the mon'es by them
previously paid., will then l>e foifciicd ior the
common benefit of the foid fpciety.
That the fublcribcj isduly authorised to tnak£ *
the requfiLc iridorfments upon the certificates of
shares. and that books of transfer are opened at
hit olhcc 141 Front-ilreet.
NICHOLAS LOW.
no-York, June 12, 1793. f e P l1 3j)
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia } May 27, 1 793.
500 Dollars Reward.
WtfKREAS a certain THOMAS SLOS»S
GANTT, has lately made his escape
from Baltimore County Gaol, to which he was
commuted under a charge of having robbed the
Eaitern Mail, on the sß;h day of January Jaft :
Notice is hereby given, that a reward of five
hundred dollars wtl! be paid at this Office, to
anv prrfon or perfojis who ftiall apprehend the
fajd Thomas Slajs and deliver him into the
tuftodv of the keeper of the said Gaol, or into
thecultody of either of the Mnrfhals within the
United S'acesj so that the said Thomas Slofs Ganit
may be effectually {ccured, and forth coming to
answer the above mentioned charge.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
The following is a description of the above
named Thomas Sioss Gantt : He is about
fix feet high, strait „nd well made, has light co
louied hair, tied behind, fair complexion and
has a down look when spoken to.
FROM THE GENERAL ADVERTISER.
Mr. Bach e ,
I FIND, from the newspapers, that
there is a great deal of fuii among
the folks in the city, about war in
Europe and the Frefident's procla
mation. I obferve,too,that two Ame
ricans have been committed to gaol,
to take their trial, for entering on
board a French privateer, and aililt-
ing to take f'onie vefleU belonging
to the British, with whom it is
said, we are at peace, and ought
therefore to live In rtriift jriendjhip<
with them. 1 wilh, Mr. Bache,that
you would explain all this to us
flnipletons in the country, who are
at a loss to understand your city
language, particularly when you
talk at duty, intercjt, jriendjhip, ini
partiality, peace, &c. I believe that
your city-folks have I'ome better
dictionaries than Jnhnfon's and She
ridan's, when you set about explain
ing thefehard words. Forinftance
now, you talk of.being at peace or
in jriendjhip with Great-Britain :
But let me aik you,
I. If Great-Britain were to seize
upon ihe cities of Boston, New-
437
Wednesday, June 1 795-
Pojl-Msjicr Genera/.
ork and Philadelphia, and to place
li 'iro British garrifVms ii, iheni,
io we tijcr, Li-at pi ace with her ?
2. Jf this would ivot be peace, but
war, how will yoflr government
men be ai>le to make it out, that to
have our wfefterw ports held from
6s, and gjurifoneil by the Britilh, is
flat war also ; or at lealt very uis
fr'tcn'Siy ,condii<Tt—efpeeially when
it: is added, that these fame BritWh
gat rifoua rob us of the fur trade,
and encturage the Indians to mur
der our jieople on the frontiers '
?. If the two privateer's men |
ihouid be punt/li«d for entering into
the French service, then, 1 suppose,
every man who enters inro foreign
service without leave ofour govern
ment-men, is liable to be piinilhed
alio ; at thin rate, will not Col.'Os
wald, Maj. £yilace, and many other
brave Americans, who are now pay
ing a debt ef * -«ur old
friends the French, be liable to se
vere punishment, if ever they re
turn |o their native country
Do, Mr. Bache, be so kind as to
procure an ajifwer to thef'e three
queries from some of your corres
pondents, particularly the second ;
for I am very desirous to know bow
we can be at peace with a nation,
that holds forcible patfejjion of a num
ber of polls in our country.
Yoarj, ijc.
FH6M THE GENEfi.iL ADVERTISER.
Mr. Bsche,
You will oblige me by giving flace to
the jcllotving anf-wer to the farmer.
TO A FARMER. '
IF I underhand your Queries,tliey
unplv a Itrong advocation of a
war wilh Great-Britain : Permit me
in return to ask you a few quefti-
OIIS.
Can America join France against
Great • Britain, without bringing up
on her the enmity of the other com
bined powers !
Placed by nature at the dillance
of 3000 miles frrtin France, and ijoo
from anj of her pofl'eflions, what
aid can we give to either without a
naval force ?
To the united navies of Great-
Britain, Holland, Spain, Portugal
and Russia, what lias America to op
j>ofe but 12 custom house boats ?
What would be the expense of
building & equipping a naval force
equal to render active assistance to
France, and protection to our own
comirerce ?
If this be impollible, and our com ■
merce be of course ruined, what
proportion will the price of wheat
and the other productions of the
Farmer bear to the present i
If tiie duties now paid at the cus
tom-bouses by commerce ceal'e, how
are we to raise money for the exi
gencies of the proposed war, but by
direct taxes 011 land, See. &c. or by
loan ?
If direct raxes prove inconveni
ent to rail'e the neceflary funis, (hall
we have reccurfe to foreign or do
mestic loans i If to foreign, from
whom (hall we borrow when at war
wirh all the world ? If to domestic,
will the Kariner and his friends
place fufficient confidence in the
justice of the quarrel, the success of
its event, and the faith of govern
ment, to lend their property ?
If the payment of the iirteieU on
the present debt of the United Stares,
contracted during a war into which
we were driven, and which termi
nated in the eftabliihment of free
dom and happiness, be a grievance,
(hall we diminifli the evil by ad
ding ten millions of dollaib a year
(the average expenle of the late
war) to that debt, by wantonly en
gaging in a quarrel with which Wc
When the Farmer talks of the
western polls, he seems to forget
that there are two banks to a river ;
it would be difficult to prove tfoaj
forts oppofire to Detroit and
ra would be lels troublesome to us
than they are ; or that an Indian
canoe, or Britifli armed vHFeI cebld
not as well navigate on the fide of
t he lakes and rivers wlMrh are theft s
by treaty, as on our fide; In the
■M>niihn «if. we hai e I nid a«id
l>o'U enough aTreiuly : when we
want more, 1 prefuine the Farmer
will gallantly turn out and help us
get them.
But from the importance which
the Farmer gives to his argument:
of the f" 11 r 1 ride, I am induced to
fufpei r t that he is really a Hatter,
and t hat tlie advantages which might
derive to his branch of business front
a free trade with the Indians, is
wifely considered by him as an am
ple compensation for what all the
other clafle® of fodety muff fufFer,
from the interruption which war
would give to every other branch
of com merce.
A FARMER.
I will I hank him, however, toan
fwer me, whether he really fippof
es, that the Britifli garrisons in Ca
nada would give iels encourage
nveirt To the Indians to murder i;s in
the time of war, ihan they do now ;
—or whether the Fur Trade would
flouridi under fuel) circumftanres ?
Left from the tenor of these que
ries. the Farmer should call me an
Englifhinan, 1 tliink it proper to af
fore him that I am a native (not an
imported) American. And that be
having served my country in one
war, I have learnt to eflimate its ca
lamities more juflly than he appears
to have done.
MR. F e N N«,
IF we recur to the history of part ages, we
shall find, that enthusiasts ( in religion 4s
well as in politics, have nevfcr frriipjed telling
ten thousand lies in defence of their l efpec
tive lyliems—And the events of our own
times will go to prove, that the prejudices
which governed some of our ancestors, ope
rate witii equal force on the minds of their
posterity.
Itisllotmallyyearsnl.ee, that a few il
literate perrons conduced by a woman of ill
tame, made tlieir appearance in the neigh
borhood of Albany and calling thernfelve, the
chosen people of God, introduced a mode of
worlhip which from its novelty attract d the
attention ofevery body—All intercqurfe be
tween the two sexes was interdicted The
married were prohibited from cohabiting to
gether—every 1,-iipulle, however abfutd, was
considered as Supernatural—jig tunes were
substituted for hymns, to which they dan
ced until they we.e quite exhaufteri—they
wallowed in mud holes—ran naked into the
high ways and excepting the framing of ad
d relies and ridiculous toaft.s, they did every
thing that could pollibly operate to their own
degradation and debarment. Thu lLy cal/,d
true religion.
The fame farce is acting at this present
moment with relpeft to politics.
If a group of persons, fay forty or fifty,
calling themlelves the citizens of Philadel
phia lliould llraggle out towards Gray's ferry
no matter what the pretence—we are sure
to be told the next morning, that the roads
were crouded.—lf a hundred meet in the
evening to chufe a committee, the number as
it by magic encreafes immediately to thou
tands ! It is to this prolific squad that we are
indebted tor a knowledge of the feve al dc'-
grees of perfection attainablein their proprefs
towards liberty and equality—When a man
tor mflauct can stand upon his head as well as
/>J>3
[Whole No. 452.]
have no concern ?—For if 1 rend
rightly, (.itizrii Gci.er, in his pub
lic answer to Citizen iiutci inltjn,
&c. &c. on liis arrival in town, de
clared, " With regard to I
v. ill declare openly ai.d freely, (for
the ruiuillers of Republics fljould
have no secrets, no intrigues) that
from the remote (Irnauon of Ame
rica and other cii cuitilhnues,France
does not expert mat you should be
come a party in the war."
AN OLDSOLDIER.
June 14
For Ike GAZETTE of the UNITEDSTATtS.
Vh»S feet, he it called a ftufitoCfc Patriot.—* When
he advises and not uofretjuently abuse's the
prefider.t, he becomes a Dvmoctt.—When he
attends to every body's bufmefs but bis own,
and consequently negletts liis wife and chil
dren, he acquires the appellation of a good
Citizen—k ut, when he has brought himfelf to
approve of allaflrnafions—to consider religion
and morality as of no importance-Mo puHlifh
atrocious libels "U' der the signatures of 44 Vcri~
tas 9 " " Old Soldier&c. and has had his brows
encircled with the famous red r travelling
cap, then indeed and not till then is he con
sidered as having reaci'cd t!»c summit of all
earthly dignity r a Jacobin H ! Thus it is,
that religion and liberty so wifely calculated
properly underltood, to ensure the hap
piness of thehuman race are by a ft range trans
mutation made to consist in a few tabaliftical
words and outri aclions, illy understood by
tlie jugglers tnemfejves, who have therefo-e
•(Turned a right to eonftrue them in all cases,
as will best suit their own purposes.
for the GAZETTE oj the UNITED STATES.
Mr. Ff. nno,
I READ >0 your last Garette the Declaration
of a Committee oI Ihe Republican Society of
Norfolk and P.infmouth, in Virginia—and ob.
fervtd therein, with gieat plrafure, a conccfTvn
to the following purport, viz.—That the citi
zens of the United Suies, under favor of the Su
preme Governor of i he Universe, enj"y " prefrnt
ease, tranquili y and happ-inefs." This declara
tion is of g'eat importance— it ought to make
the mot giveful impreflions on every mind,
»nd be held in everlafliog remembrance.
The medium thro* which these favors have
been conferred on us, is the general government.
A government'which is. 1 trust, so dear to us all,
that every individual citizen will be a (hield to
defend it fromJecret or open enemies.
It appears, however, somewhat odd, Mr.
Printer, to talk of Republican Societies in the
raidft of a Republican Government. The world
at large supposes ih&people of the United States
form one great Society of Republicans. The
Norfolk and Portsmouth Society may however
be Republicans of a superior class — double re
fined!
Some persons have expressed surprize at the
attempts made to form political focie'ies in this
country, under denominations so perfe£lly coin
cident with the nature of the government and
the fpiritof the people. In Great-Britain and
other European countries, such societies may be
established on patriotic principles—for there the
governments diverge from the few republican
principles which they contain, towards ftrongeT
degrees of despotism—and every check to the
encroachments of arbitrary power, is fomelhing
gained by the people ; but here, the people are
•• easy, tranquil and happy," under the mod
petfeft system of republicanism the world ever
jaw — I wish to fee measures pursued which
have a natural tendency to preferveihis govern
ment in its purity. There is but one effectual
method — Make the people in principle Republi
cans. In order to this, they must be enlighten
ed—the foundation, must be laid in youth—
.Education is the only preparative. Societies
tor promoting the gr/*at woik of education
among the poor, would be republican indeed—
for without knowledge and information, rhe
people are 1 he blind followers of fattious leaders,
who combive merely to overthrow every inftitu
lion that opoofes their ambitious projects.
Your's,
CHRISTOPHER.
Itr the GAZLTTt of the UNITED STATIS.
Mr. Fenno,
HWING lately fecn in the public prints, a
declaration of the (landing committee of
ihc Republican Socic:y of Norfolk and Porifi
mouth, at a meeting held on the 3d inft. I have
taken the liberty of fumifhing you with the
copy of another political creed, which in ray
opinion is not destitute of merit.
At a general meeting of the friends to order and
good government, specially convened for the
purpose—
Resolved, That it is the opinion of this
meeting, that a declaration comprising anexpo
firion of the fentimems and principles which
have uniformly influenced the friends to order
and good government, be pubUflru d to all the
world.
DECLARATION.
Citizens, declare as our
unalterable opinion, that the bleflings of a just,
mild and -equitable government, can only be
perpetuated by a prompt obedience to the laws,
refpeft for morality, and a fti itt adherence to
the divine injunction of " doing unto all men
as we would they should do unto us."
That the attention which many of our fellow
citizens discover towards chimerical systems of
jurisprudence, card playing, hoife racing, &c.
as well as ihe predile&ion which they evinc* in
favor of other men's bufmefs in preference to
their own, is to us a matter ps serious concern
and regrci
That altho' liberty is attainable by all nations,
ret nevertheless we hold it for a truth—That a
Free government can exist no where but
»mong a virtuous and cnlightcni d people : Any
attempt therefore to prorogate liberty at the
point of the bayonet, is as absurd as it is wicked.
That the security reluliing from out- remote
fit nation from Europe can only be endangered
by the machinations of a few icftlefs individuals,
■who, actuated by pride, envy, qr want, are en
deavoring by all the, means in their power, to
-destroy a government so wifely calculated to
insure the happiness of the citizcns thereof.
That it is ihe pshocativi of Firemen to
(peak their fentimenis without reserve on the
JubjeQ of all governments, whether eltSivc or
-hereditary, fitnple or mixed, and to condemn
or applaud the means taken to obtain such go
vernments.
That it is a truth, not lc fs notorious than it is
to be lamented, that 111 the bosom of our coun
try, we have men who exclaim against foreign
and yet practice iomcjiu tyranny—who talk of
morality, and ate guilty of enormous viefs—
and who bellow continually about liberty and
equality, sn<3 yet Grange to tell, are cit\?ens
themiel«(s of the mod aristocratic ilate m tne
union.
Tpat although Hocus Pocui, the chief of the
magician* and disciples of ihe new pbilofophy,
has in hi* speeches and writings given us to un
dcft-ind, that a clear skin is the only mark by
which to ascertain the rjgbi« of men to the
blcfTings of fieedom —Yet ntverthelefs be it
known, and we hereby declaie, that we never
have, or eve* shall fubferibe to the religious, po
litical or moial creed of the said Hocus Pocus,
a harlequin printer, or their aiders and abei
tors.
That strongly impressed with these sentiments,
we have copceivt d :t to be our intcreji, and know
it to be our duty, nocwithftanding the efforts of
all pseudo patriots lo the contrary, to rill (atis
fied with the cor-ftuutional mode of ?tyeringour
own form of government, if called for by the
people, and leaving to all nations the right of
nrw modelling thtir's or not, as to them may
feem meet, without abusing or reviling thetn for
their determination.
VIKDEX.
Foreign Intelligence.
HANOVER, April 3.
THE second column of the »rmy
of this Eletftorate, destined to
a€l against France, begarvits march
yesterday. Iw route is towards We
fel, and thence along the Rhine.
At the head of the 2d battalion of
guards, is Prince Adolphus, {on td
the King of Great-Britain.
CARLSRUHE, April 4.
Yeflerday the Imperial troops at
tacked the French near Leimer
chein, three leagues hence—39o of
them were killed, and j©o ijiken
prisoners.
M A N H E I M, April 4;
The head quarters of the Imperi
al troops are still at Spires, and
those of the Prussians at Gnnteif
blum. A part of the combined ar
mies, however, is near the frontiers
of Alsace.
His Majesty the King of Prussia
arri*ed here yesterday at 2 o'clock
A.M. preceded by a detachment of
our citizens on horseback, am id ft
the ringing of bells and the ' accla
mations of the inhabitants. / ,
FRANKFORT, April 7.
A very heavy cannonade Was beard yester
day, during the whole day. We have learned
lince, that the garrison of Caflel made ano
ther sortie, hut were repulsed as before.
"the Prussian advanced posts are very near
Menti. The French have entirely evacuat
ed the Duchy of Deux Ponts.
AMSTERDAM, April 15.
On the approach of the Pruflian troops un
der the command of" Genera) Rombwg, the
French evacuated the whole Duchy of Deux
Ponts.
General Cuftine is ported with his army be
tween Landau and Wiflenbourg—according
to authentic intelligence- it consists only of
24,000 men. Gen. Wurmfer, at the head of
12,000 Auftrians and 4003 troops of Hesse
Dannfladt, who closely pursued them as far
as Gemerlheim, has his advanced ports at
Vergzahern. As General de Hohenloe is ap
proaching through the defiles of Dorkheim,
on the fide towards Newftadt, the French will
find themselves between two fires, and be
prevented both from throwing up entrench,
ments, and from procuring aflirtance.
In consequence of a resolution formed by
their High Mightinesses, on the .fth ittli. his
Serene Highness has been requeued to give
orders to the captains of (hips of war, and of
privateers, not to molest or capture, in open
seas, French filhing vessels, equipped solely
for that purpqfe, and not armed. They haye
power, however, to search them in cafe of
suspicion. These orders are to be in force
as long as the fifheries of the state are not mo.
lefted by French privateers.
BRUSSELS, Aprill 13.
A rapid movement made by our army a
gainst Conde, gave rife to tlve premature re
port of its being taken.—Notwitliftanding the
defection of General Dumourier, the French
still seem determined to oppose the efforts of
the combined armies.
HAGUE, April 11.
The firit division of Hanoverians, confid
ing rank and file, entered Antwerp
this day.
LONDON, April 23.
The last advices from the continent inti
mate an nnion of a lingular complexion be
tween prince Ernest Augustus, the fifth son of
his majesty, and lady Augusta Murray, the
daughter of the Earl of Dunmore, now in
Switzerland. They were united at Rome.
His Royal Highnels is just twenty yearj of
age, the lady turned of thirty.
The defe<stion of Dumourier has ultimately
proved of no further service to the combined
powers, than that of having withdrawn a ve
ry intelligent and popular officer from the
French service, and of having disunited their
northern army. On the other hand thi» force
has been thrown inro the French garrifoii
towns) which, perhaps, may prove a greater
WORMS, April J.
438
neonvenfence to tfcc Austria..* th.n If the ar
-117 had kept together. „
Genti al Duinoiirier, General Valencc.Ma
dame Sillery, and a Jew other a tad -
ed to Dun.ou. ier, set out from Bruflels, tie
i j<h, on tueir way to Switzerland, the whole
army having renounced him-
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Saturday, April 13.
After a debate of some hours, a decree
of arrest was pafled against Marat, the
the committee of Legislation were order
ed to make their repoiton this (übjeci on
the morrow.
Levaflieur proposed also the arreftation
of Salles—this proposition was adjourn,
ed.
Stingel, Miranda, Miazifcfki, and
L'Ecuver, were delivered over to the re
volutionary tribunal.
The fitting was then suspended, and
was not resumed till ten this inorningt
An officer from the garrison of Sarre
louis informed the convention, that all
his brethern in arms, filled with indigna
tion at the treachery of Dumourier, were
determined to defend the unity and indi
visibility of the republic with their lives.
(Applauses.)
President.-—" Cuftine has said, the day
when you have a king lhall be that of my
emigration.—Well we fay the day on
which we have a king, (hall be that of
the death of Frenchmen. The Convention
applauds the civifm of the garrison of Sar
relouis, and invites you to the honors of
the fitting." Applauses.)
A letter was read from General Dam
pierre, dated the iothinftant :—lt Rated,
that this army then encamped before
Beuchain, was considerably weakened by
the disorganization and perfidious manoeu
vres of Dumourier. He added, that the
fafety of the republic depended on its
speedy re-organization, and proposed fil
ling up tha old regiments by trained vo
lunteers, who might be replaced by the
lc,ooo men ordered to be raise, and by
the national guards, who are in a perma
nent Rate of requifuion. Referred to the
committee of public fafety.
Letcer from the National Commiflioners.
"Valenciennes, April 10.
" We inform the national convention,
that the enemy are making movements a
gainftConde. They began to (hew them
selves yesterday in several columns, and
appeared as if making preparations for
ere&ing batteries. A cannonade was kept
up upon them from the town, during the
whole night. They kindled a great ma
ny fires, and we do not yet know whether
ther their attack is real or feint, but at
present all communication between that
place and Valenciennes is intercepted. We
have just nowreceived letters from citizens
Chancel, chief de brigade, and Langlois,
the temporary commandant, which an
nounce the good disposition of the garri
son and the resolution of the brave soldiers
who compose it* to defend themfelveslike
true republicans.
" The Austrian General sent a flag of
truce by an officer to Geneial Chancel,
to tell him veibally that the Emperor was
disposed to treat favorably all those who
should acknowledge the former French
constitution. The General anfweied ver
bally, that he & his brave garrison would
remain invariably faithful to the repub
lic : that they know how to defend thetrf
felves, and that they would live, and if ne
cefiary, die republicans.
" A good spirit begins to be re-ftab
lilhed among our troops, and when they
are fully undeceived tefpe£ting that trai
tor Dumourier—when they {hall be con
vinced that the deceitful and perfidious
bait of that constitution which is held
forth to them is only a stratagem of ty
ranny to seduce them, and again fubjeft
the nation to the yoke of the mod odious
despotism, their error willthenbe changed
into profound indignation, and our defeats
into victories."
The Convention decreed, that honora
ble mention should be made of general
Chancel and the garrison of Conde.
The minutes of the fitting of yesterday
evening being read, Petion moved a re
peal of the decree for bringing Miranda
before the levolutionary tribunal. He ob
served, that this General, a vidbm to Du
mourier, was facrificed only by him fur
having had the courage to denounce him
four days before his treachery wan unveil
ed.
During the discussion of this motion,
the deputies were thrown into great com
motion, and Albite, Roberf-'» : v
younger and some others, cri
the Convention vnflic&to faVc s u eotif*j«
tatois.
Aubry declared that Mijanda tpW
ed to him to be innocent, and propoftj
that the decree fcr bringing him befon
the revolutionary tribunal (houid be fuft
pended unlil the Convention had feea ,
copy of his examination before the com.
mittee of war.
After a long and violent debate, th<
Convention pa(Ted to the order of the day
on the motion of Petion, and referred
that of Aubry and several others on th«
fame fubjeft to the committee of war.
Second letter from the Commissioners at
Valenciennes.
"Valenciennes, April if.
" Since our lalt dispatches the army
of the republic has undertaken no opera,
tion. The enemy aie before Coode— all
communication between which and this
place continues to be intercepted. That
between Quefsoy and Conde is also cut
off, but Gen. Dampierre is pursuing
roeafutes for re-eftablilhing the inter
course.
" Two trumpets sent to Gen. Dan
pierre "by the Auftriati Gen. were con
ducted to Gen. Fen and, to whom they
delivered an address to the French, from
the Prince of Saxe Cobourg, and a me
morial of Dumouricr, giving a deceitful
explanation of the motives of his condtift.
" It appears that our enemies ate a
dopting a system quite the reverse of what
they followed lall year ; that they affect
modei'ation the better to fed Oct the pco
pie ; and pteaeh up refpedt for property,
to induce the farmers to keep their corn
at home, that they may the more easily
seize it and deprive us of it."
On a motion by Danton, the conventi
on declared in the name of the French
people, that they would not interfere in
any manner, in the government of ftv
reign powers ; but that they would rs
ther bury themselves in the ruins of their
country than fuffcr any foreign power to
interfere with the constitution which they
wish t® form for themfelvls..
The convention further decreed the
pain of death agaiaft any who flvould pro
pose a negciation with the enemy for the
purpose of modeling the conltimtion a
greeable to their suggestions, or recom
mend offering any terms whatever to such
nations as would not fit ft. accknowltdge,
the sovereignty, unity, and indivisibility
of the republic, founded upon liberty
and equality.
A letter was read, dating that the ar
my of Sables had gained a confaierable
advantage over the rebels ; 30 of whom
were taken with arms in their hands.—
Their lof6 was estimated at more than 500
" men killed.
A long letter without date or place
was received from Marat, complaining
that the supporters of the aristocratic fac
tion, in order to divert the public attenti
on from their connexion with the traitor
D umourier, had caused him to be put
into a fiate of arrest, that they might fa
crifice him to their pafiions.
Delaunay, juti, in the name of the
committee of legislation, gave in a report
on the charges bro't agaiuft Marat, and
read ap address begun yefferday by Gau
det, in which it was /ortnalty said, that
the republic could not be saved but by fpeo
dily expelling all those deputies who did
not vote for the death of the late king.
This address was warmly applauded by
the galleries, and by a part of the mem
bers on the right fide of the hall. One of
the latter having moved, that it (houli
be laid on the table and be signed by the
patriots, an hundred of the members of
that fide, with David at their head, ad
vanced immediately in a body to the ta
ble and signed it, amidst repeated accla
mations from the galleteis.
Cambon then moved, and the conven
tion decreed, that this address (hould be
printed with the signatures.
Some members proposed that it (hould
be sent to the departments and to the ar
mies.
Vei'gniaud—" I support this motion.
The departments ought to know who
those are who foment a civil war."—His
ses from the galleries.
Fovaux de Calvadas moved the p«Vl
ous queilion on the motion, which he
considered as very dangerous.
Lacroix was of the lame opinion. He
{aid this imprudent measure would bring
about a counter revolution, and that it
tpme ~a great part of the
tend
Co d
■ .jers . ! t!;. invention of the coni*
of tatir conltitucut*—wjiich if onceloft, would make it neeeffary to convoke
the primary assemblies.
Genfonne—" 1 support the motion
for fending this address with the signa
tures to the departments and to the ar
mies, I move also that the pi imary assem
blies be immediately convoked."
A member—" You yourfelf must be
firft prosecuted."—Yes! Yes! exclaim
ed the galleries. Loud applauses follow
ed.—" We can no longer dissemble," re
sumed Genfonne, " the schism is so great
thathonefl men mud allow that all the
bonds of mutual confidence between the
members of this assembly are dissolved.—
[Yes ! Yes ! cried with one voice, all
the memberson theextremity of the right
fide. J —The addrtfs which has been sign
ed by part of the members, contains, be
sides thieats, an appeal to the people,
which I myfelf solicit. It is time they
should know whether the making of laws
belong to them or to a wretched faction.
In that state of division, hatred and mif
trult, into which we have been thrown,
we must appeal to the people. It is im
possible that our diffentions can othcrwife
be ended." After representing the dan
ger, however of convoking the primary
assemblies for a total ie-eledtion, he con
cluded frith stating, that the convention
might be prolonged, and the people al
lowed to replace such members as had
101 l their confidence by new deputies.
The report presented by Delaunay in
the name of the committee of legislation,
proposed that a decree of accusation
fliould be passed against Marat.
The confufion was continued, nor was
the debate ended when the above account
was closed.
DUBLIN, April 9.
We insert the following epigram, not for
the purpose of making the most distant appli.
cation of it to our wife, just and virtuous House
of Lords, but merely to introduce the anec»
dote which gave it biVth, and to evince, how
imich better the Right 1 of Man and the Liberty
oj the Suhjefl are understood and regarded at
present, than many years ago, when the said
epigram was written.—The circwnftance
was this—one Laboifere, we suppose from his
name a wicked Frenchman and alien, pub
iilhed an almanac, and therein audaciously
printed a lift of the Members names of the
Sacred House of Lords, for which fediti.ous
and fcandajous libel he was very justly com
mitted to uri inn ; upon which Baron Daw [on
wrote the following
EPIGRAM.
To Newgate the\'ve Jent the poor Laboifeie,
for printing the title and name of each Peer ;
/ind there he tnujl lie—'til he's not worth a sous,
for to tell who the Peers are—irflefls on ihe House.
United States.
RICHMOND, June 10.
On Friday last, the Honorable the Judges
of the Federal Court, held in this city, gave
their opinions on the importantfsubjectc c t of the
payment of the British debts (which has en
grossed the attention of the Court, for several
days past.)
The points before the court were,
ift. Whether the Britilh debts were reco
verable in this State, the acts of the Virginia
Aflembly having prohibited the recovery,
which atts pallid prior to the adoption of the
Couftitution of the United States.
2d. Whether the payments made into the
Joan-office were not complete bars to the
plaintifPs ast ion for so much as was paid ?
3d. As the definitive treaty had been bro
ken by the Government of Great-Britain,
Whether the treaty of peace should be carried
into effect 011 the part of America ?
And, lastly. Whether the debtor was not
annihilated by the diflolution of the govern
ment, on the 4th day of July, 1776 ?
The Court were unaniliioufly of opinion
on the I ft, 3d, and last points, for the plain
tiff, confide ring the adoption of toe conftitu
tioij as a repeal'of all laws in oppositiOn to
the treaty of peace, which by that adoption
hud become the supreme law of the land ; and
upon this ground gave judgment for the
plaintiff on the firft point. On the third they
w-re of opinion, that the court could not
take notice of a breach of treaty, if such did
exist, without a declaration to that effect
from ihe Congress of the United States. On
the last, gave judgment for the plaintiff,'as
the plea of the defendant could not be sup
ported by the lawn and iifagcs of nations. Oo
the second point the oourt were divided, Mr.
Jay, Chief-Juftrce of the United States, for
the plaintiffs, Mr. I rede ft and Mr. Griffin for
the defendants—>iipon that plea then, judg
ment was entered for the defendants—a ma
jority of the court funpofing, that as that
law had been carried into complete effect be
fore treaty of peace, and as by thaMaw,
the defendant was discharged from the debt,
the treaty of peace could not again change
bun.
(r"? THE Letter Hag of the /hip John and
Pic/'oy(i Capt. Knouland. [now lying at Port Penn)
Jor Lvncon, wiil remain at the Pojl-Office until this
eventr,
t'Diiaflclpbia, June 19.
Philadelphia, June 19.
Monday arrived at Pott Ptnn, the (hip John
and Richard, Capt. Knowland, in three months ■
and twenty days from Madras ; flie will jail in
the couifc of the prelcnt week tor London.
Monday evening Mr. Blanchard entertained
the citizens with the fecofid experiment of the
Parachuts, which fuccreded, to the admira
tion ot the fpefiators.
The Dutrh inhabitants of St. Martin's, have
taken p' trillion, without blood lhed, of that part
of the island which had been inhabited by the
French.
A veffcl in 28 days from Liverpool, (fays a
Portland paper) arrived at Wi leaflet in the dif
{lri& of Maine, on the 3d inftani—The papers
bv her are said to contain nothing later than has
already been published.
Friday last at an elc&ion held for Dirc&ors
of the Bank of Pennfylvaoia, the following nine
teen persons were chosen, which, with the fix
alreadv nominated by the legiflatiire, complete
the 25 Dire&ors of the institution. The Bank
is in Lodge-Alley, Second-street.
Those marked with a star were chosen by the
legiflatiire!
•Jacob Morgan
•William Miller
•Kearny Wharton
John Barclay
Samuel Howell
James Crawford
Hugh Holmes
John Rofs
John Leamy
Matthew Lawler
John Fry,jun.
Godfrey Haga
*John Swanwick
*Cliarlcs Biddle
*Samuel M. Fox
Philip Mickl-irt
William Sanfom
Thomas Rufton
R. Ralfton
Sand Ford
Walter Stewart
Charles Petit
C. Slocker
Geoige Pcnnock
William Montgomery
The Directors of the' Bank of Pennsylvania,
on Saturday last, elected John Barclay, E'q.
Prefidentof that institution—To-morrow is
afligned for the choice of a Cafliier.
Warrants have been c)rawn by the Governor
of Pennsylvania on the Treasurer of the State,
and delivered to the President and Directors
of the Bank of Pennsylvania, for Thee Hun.
died 1 houfund Dollars specie—and for the Stock
of the State, to the value in specie, of, from
three hundred and fifty thousand to four hun
dred thousand dollars. Daily Papers.
The Knoxville Gazette contains an account
of the following minders and depredations of
the Indians from the 9th to the 28th April—
viz. Col Isaac Bleafoe, John Harmar,
Dowdy, Henry Howdelhall, Samuel Pharr,
John Benton. Richard Shaffer, ——Gambrell,
John Jarvis, francis Ramer, and four others,
(names not mentioned) killed, and several
wounded—Some houses were burnt, and a
number of horses stolen.
The feme Gazette fays, " From undoubted
information we can aiTert, that since the firft
of April,-fix hundred and lixty Creeks iiave
crofled the Teneffee, at the lower towns of
the Cherokee*, for war against the diftrift of
Mero, Cumberland settlements.
,l On the 29th nit. a detachment of mount
ed infantry, confiding of one hundred' and
twenty men, unfler the command of Major
Hugh Beard, marched from South-Weft-Point,
month of Clinch,to the relief of Mero diftrifl."
Extract of a letterfrom Liverpool, of 22 d April.
" I feel the necessity of cautioning you a
gainst being too sanguine in your calculations
on property which mav be sent to this market
the ensuing summer and fall—my reasons are,
the prcfent general war against the Convention
at Paris, the copfequent ftoppagc of remittances
from, and exportation ps their manufactures to
France—the people's having generally traded
beyond their capitals ; and the failure of almost
all kinds of paper, except that of the Bank of
England."
There has been much ink Hied in N<*w-York
lately,occafioned by the words " Theatre Royal"
being printed on the benefit tickets of one of the
players. A writer in the Diary has the fol
lowing humourous remarks on the fubjeft :
" I much approve of his idea ot ihe Theatre
Royal— it is certainly very proper, for it digni
fies our irtfignificant city, which, but for the fpi
ritcd exertions of our Kngliih Friends, might
be forgotten. You may have oblerved, Sir, as
you parted along the thus infenbrd—
A. B. 'merchant from London—C. D. hatter
from London —E. F. ta\lor from London—
Brush maker, tffflow chandler, dentist, barbeV,
walhcr woman, (ft oe-black', &c. See. from Lon
don. This fhrws they are acquainted with the
paflions the Americans have tor Bruifh exports,
and I doubt not, but thw in a little time, we
(hall be so fai policed, that we (ball be supplied
with lawyers, clergymen, AffemWymeni C'ovgreJj, and
Prejtdent, all trom LONDON ! !!"
Extract jrom a Proclamation of M.
Col lot, Gournor of Guadaloupc.
u LET no ilUdifpoTed citizen, Simulated by
a sense of falfe pride, objett, that there is no lon
ger any iank, no honorable d'.ftinfcfions among
us; at no period did so many exifl! Let that
citizen acquire the confidence of the public, and
the finances of every office ftiall be under his
care; let him become an ecclesiastic, and every
dignity of the church fball await him ; let him
be brave and expert in war, there is no promo
tion to which he may not rcach ; let him be
economical, and to.him fball the public income,
the treasures of the nation* be entrusted ! Who
after this, (hall dare to claim superiority from
titles, *vhcn no superiority from henceforth can
be acknowledged, but that which springs from
virtue and abilities."
WHIP PING THF. CAT— AN extract
" MIRABEAU's alhea weie dispersed at
belonging 10 a traitor, bv the patriot irijp)/,
who>s(lyltda villain by the patriot EgatHe,
vhofe banifhrnrut is advocated by the patriot
fioberfpierre, who is declared lo be a monlKr
by the patriot Dam/wrier, who is stigmatized a
traitor by the patriot Marat, who is now com
fined by a patriotic decree of the Convention."
439
COMMUNICATIONS
At the prefentmoment, when attempts are
not wanting to mislead the public judgment
and prejudice the minds of the citizens of the
United States against a government, the ad-
Wmi ft ratio 11 of which hath djfpelled every
cloud that darkened our political heniifpherej
ftied a lustre on our national character, and
brightened the profpeft before us—it may not
be amiss. to advert to a few fa<sts, the bare al
litfion to which will juftify the ardor of the
friend* to peace freedom and government, in
their zealous attachment to, and support of,
the federal constitution, and the fyitems which
have been productive of so much happiness to
our country. * I
There is not a State in the Union in which
the immediately arising from' the re-
pt* public credit are not ttrikingly
appUrerjt In Tome public, or private underta
king! by which alio the general interest is pro
moted ; few, if any of these undertakings
would probably have had existence for many
years to cortie but for the cause julfc afligned.
In the diifcrift of Maine extensive plans in ca
nallingare on foot, which promise emolument
to the adventurers and great accommodation
to the public. The population, agriculture
and commerce of this diftridt and of the State
of New-Hanipfhire are rapidly advancing.
The attention of their Legislators is engaged
in making extensive and adequate provision
tor difleminating knowledge among the peo
ple—by founding and eftabliflung public schools
and colleges ; while new channels of political
information are continually opening in the
nunierous'weekly publications which the ad
venturers of the type set up.*
In Massachusetts various public works have
been undertaken and effected J bridges erect
ed, and roads improved—manufactures esta
blished and prosecuted with spirit and success;
literary institutions spring up in all parts of
the State.; agriculture and the arts flourifh
un3er hand of public patronage,
and the encouragement of an intelligent pub
lic—Her commerce explores the re mote ft
regions of the universe, and her ftiips unlade
at home the produce of all climes.
This statement will apply with proper va
riations to Vermont, Rhode-Island, and Con
necticut.-—Through these happy and flourish
ing States, plenty tranquility and freedom
reign. The farmer plows, sows, reaps and
enjoys—laughs and sings without care or
anxiety, finding a ready demand and a good
price for all the surplus produce of his labor.
—In short, human felicity may here be said
to have found a permanent residence.
Large cities like a vortex attratf: every
description of cliara&ers; among these the
jealous, the envious and seditious—hence the
glooms of restless ambition some times darken
the columns of one or two vehicles of political
murmurings, which are publiftied in Bolton ;
but as they are there born, there they would
die were it not for the transplanting which
they*receive into similar foils in other large
cities* Except these solitary croakings, & the
vcrtte of comphihTt br fcarcefj heard in a whis
per throughout the States east of the Hud foil.
In the State of New York a noble spirit of
improvement and enterprise has broke forth;
designs are carrying into execution in the
western parts of that government, which
when completed, will aftonifli the world—
these are prolecuting under the auspices of
some of the firft patriots of the country, with
ap energy and perseverance that must over
come every obstacle ; tke latent resources
and the favorable circumstances of situation,
of that refpe&able member of the union are
of late brought into view—and we may reft
allured that these will be turned to the best
account,—Principles of union and fedei alifm
appear to predominate among the people,
these are unfolding the human chara&er and
difplayiog it in the faireft colours—auspicious
to freedom, agriculture, learning, commerce
and arts.
Pennsylvania, second to none in the career
of enterprize and improvement, has planst
of the greatest magnitude in altual prosecu
tion ; frQm the spirit with which the e have
been begun and the means which she pofleiTes
to mature them—there is the greatest reason
to expect that this extensive State will e/e
long be in a situation lb favorable to inter
nal commerce by land and water, that her
agriculture and trade will be carried on with
as much facility as in the most improved part
of .Great-Britain.
Nor does the improvementof her roads and
internal navigation engross the whole atten
tion of ber citizens. Her Legislature a<slu
af<*< by th© most benevolent and enlightened
policy", has turned its attention to making ve
ry liberal provision for improving the public
mind in ufeful science and political know
ledge ; this <be has been enabled to do from
the favorable situation of her funds, which are
placed on the most refpeftable footing by the
revival of the public credit of the Union.—
The private and public spirit of improvement
discovered in the capital and other parts of
the State—the fbip-building, and prodigious
encreafe ps the exports, through the exparrd-
* Pour newspapers are now published in the in
terior 'jfarft oj Nciv-Humpjkirc-- ana four or Jive
have for a. long time been ejiabi fi:d in the Jeu ports
oj thai slate.
+ The following objcls are now profeevting by the
etizens oj this Stale, irz.—A turuptk road from
Philadelphia to Lancafur; another tu Yorhtuwn, by
the way of Weft-Lhcjler and 6/r Jburgh\ a bridge
across the Sufquchanrah at ihi Blue-Rock ; a bridge
over the Delaware at Eajron\ to join the Schuylkill
and Delaware, by a earn! of nor-; than twenty miles ;
to join the Schuyl* U avd tmfqueh n> a by another
canal; a canal the < ncrawaga jails on the
Svfquehanna; A? cle/tr v e SchuyhlU; to clear the
Le'i, ani ic 6f:n una improve a number us other
roads.
In*t ,>r<»»rsf» of agriculture rt-fiy be efTeutiaily
andjuft'y afcrribed to tie i'an/e caule.
The benig v n influences of the federal go
vernment extend to every of the union.
The agriculture of the Southern States >has
received an &ftonifliing spring from the return
of general confidence J the hand of industry is
i>erved thereby—and the attention Of the peo.
pie is drawn to the best alid most profitable
objedts of cultivation ; public f}»iriu-d pro
jects are the topics of publication in the
Stares of Delaware and and fnvie
are carrying into efleift j internal peine.'and
contentment pervade these State", and the
repiniiißs of uneasy minds are (carcely heard,
in the fainted tones of a (till Jmall voice.
Virginia and Maryland are protecting the
grand übjefts comprised in the projected per
manent feat of government—travellers •re
cently from that favored spot, foeak in the
highest ternts of the fituatioti—nature has been
unboundedly munificent in her gifts and
graces to the fcene^—and industry and
wealth are united in adding to its improve
ment. The public buildings, level al of
which are begun, are prosecuting with spi
rit agreeably to the elegant designs of Mn
Hoben—Great numbers of hands are employ
ed on the works, which it is expe&ed will- be
compleated in good season.
Great prog refs has been made in the grand
work, carrying on for opening and improving
the navigation of the Potowmac*-and the
principal objects of the aflociation in this
enterprize will be effected beyond expecta
tions— Immenie advantages are derived from
what is already done-~and commerce wiJl
fliortly expand her wings in the boibm of thtf
American wilds*
In North-Carolina several pnblic 2nd pri
vate enterprises in canalling have been un
dertaken—the situation of the country is
highly favorable to works of this nature—r~
and will undoubtedly pay the adventurers
a large premium for their capital-
The Legifhittrre and" people of this State
are taking measures to found various public
feminaried of learning, particularly a Univer
sity.—May success crown their virtuous la
bours ; that light, freedom, and peace may
be enjoyed by every citizen of that exter-five
State, and the bleCftngs of ajuft and righteous
government perpetuated to the lateftages.
In South Carolina we fee the revival of
agriculture and commerce keep pace with
the progress of credit and equal laws*— left in
a decrepid state by the ravages of the late
war, of which this part of the union experi
enced a triple portion ; South-Carolina is
just beginning to feel the falutarr effe&s of
peace and credit—«fome enterprizing projcfts
have beeft brought forward, and there can be
no doubt that the internal improvements in
contemplation will be carried into efFect, to
the great advantage and accommodation of
her citizens.
By some late accounts, the foreign trade of
the infant state of Georgia ha* increased great
ly, and is making rapid advances— this ltads
lier planters to exteod their agricultural im
provements-*—The exports of that dare alrea
dy form an important item in the geneialert
ports of the union—-and in a few years will
shew that the sanguine anticipations of some
of her sons have been founded on juit calcu
lations.
As an abatement to the pleafare arising from
the contemplation of the foregoing particu
lars, the war with the Indians, presents itfelf
to the ingenuous mind } hut while sympathy
is excited, and sensibility wounded at the re
cital of scenes of Indian barbarity—the pa
triotic and candid part of the community
confide in the solicitude and exertions of the
government for the restoration of peace and
security to the Frontiers—which will be ac
complished, unless their zealous endeavors,
accompanied with a great expence ftiould b«f
unhappily prostrated—which God forbid.
If the powers combined against France fcrj
oufly believe the account! pub)idled of the pro.
fcriptions, maflTacres,muiders, plundering*, pil.
laging, levelling*, difor'ganiiutions, wretched*
ness and mercy, which are (aid to have rendered
France the mnft unhappy country on the f><t of
the globe—if they lurther believe that all Lht'fe
things flow from the principle! of the leaders in
the French Revolution, as frum tjieir proper
(ource—and that their own governments are in
the utmoil hazard of being involved in &mil>r
femes of anarchy and distress—it cannot be con*
fldered as furpi'.zing that those powm should
combine,a> well for their mutual defence <gainst
evils ot such magnitude, is for the dediuftton of
principles To hostile to human happiness—every
didlate of reason, julUce and humanity, would,
compel them to the measure. Bui the
il, whether quite diffetent motives do not adu>
ate the invaders of France ? Whether the appro
henfion of the fubverfafm of their own dvfwot
ifin and the deftruflion ol ancient abufcs,wh'.ch
would involve a diminution of their power and
r< venues, are not the inducements to theit intet
ference in the formation of a government for
France ?—An mdependrnt nation aflurrdly has
a right toeftabiilh for tlfelj such fyllemi and
rules as may appear to the majority btft calculat
ed to proniote their " peace, liberty and
fafety."
Died, Tact Friday, Mr. Stephen Prosskr, of
this city—a gentleman whose death is much
regretted.
SHIP NEWS.
PORT 0/PHILADELPHIA.
Snow Baron de Carondelet, Hervr, N. Orleans
Brig Alfred, Sheehan, Port-ati-Prince
Columbia,
Schooner Beifey,
Weymouth,
Sloop Sally,
Sally,
Grren,
Afhe,
Stevens,
Bartlett,
Bmlhal,
VT Prict oj Star hi a, in cur taj!.
Weft-Indies
C. Francois
New-York'
Cape-Francois
St. Mary's0<?/<
jr \ ,
PHILADELPHIA.
LtSTof M£Mc£RS of the THIRD CVNCJtISS
oj tie UmTiu ST At t§.
• ' . SEN ators;
Jf.'ttu- Mj tttji I ri,
John Lan'fdon, Livermorc.
■\ - r ■' ' Majfaikrftti.
- Gcwfc <JM>i. Caleb Stroqf.
1 : Jntde- If and,
William Braolord. Theodore FoAcr,
CtMireSiitt,
diver Elfwor<h. Roger Sherman.
Vtrmnt,
fitepbta X. Bradley, Mofcs Robinfoa.
•" " ' Nrai-Yirk,
AuM Burr, Rufu: Kin£
' .I-;. ' k'ew-,frrfcy, '
Johfl Rftiherford, Frrdcrick Tiefioghuyfcn.
" Pt*nJ\!vania,
Albert CalUtiu, Robot Morris.
Delaware,
Gct»rge Hskd, John Viping.
Matyfakd, '
Htnry, Rtchtfd Mi*.
Virgin*,
'Inn lim'w, Join Ti^tot.
. • _• lUnttaky,
John Brnwia, John iiwards.
|> » - Utrtk-OtrM—,
~B<dm>l» Hawkins,'Aietandrr Martin.
SutkCartti**,
Pierce Baiier, K4ph iMfd.
,«£. . . . Curgia,
v> Cyan, jjuocs JiCkwn.
REPRESENTATIVES.
Kcw-Hampfhirti
NicholasGilman John $. Sherbjurwe
Jeremiah Smith Paine Wingate
Majfuchufelti,
Filler Ames Benjamin Goodhue
Shearjafhub Bourne Samuel Holten
David Cobb William Lyman
Peleg Coffin Theodore Sedgwick.
Samuel Dexter George Thatcher
Heniy Dearborn Peleg Wadl worth
Dwight Foster Aucmis Waid
Rhode- JJland,
Benjamin Bouin Francis Malbone
Ccnnefticuf,
James Hiilhoufe Uriah Tracv
Benjamin Huntington Jonathan Trumbull
Amafa Learned Jeremiah Waalfwoith
Stephen Mix Mitchell
V ermont,
Nathaniel Niles Jfrael Smith
A/ew-Ycri,
J. E. Van Allen Henry Glenn
Theodorus Bailey James Gordon
Philip Van E!ias Talbot
Peter Van Gadfbeck Thomas Tread v. ell
Eztkiel Gilbert l°hn Watts
Xcw- Jcrfiy,
John Bearty Abraham Clark
£ lias Boudiuot Jonathan Dayton
Lambert Cadwalladcr
Pennsylvania,
Jam' 9 Armstrong J hn W. Kittera
William Findley William Mon'gomery
Thomas Fitziimons Fred. A. Muhl nberg
Andrew Gregg Peter Muhlenberg
Thomas Hartley Thomas Scott
Daniel Heifter J°hn Smiley
William Irvine
VlltXoatt,
John Patron
Maryland,
Gcbr:e! Chyftift John F. Mercer
George Dent William Vans Murray
Uriah Forrcft Samuel Smith
W.lliain limdman Thomas Sprig
Virginia,
Thomas Claiborne lofaph Neville
Jfaac Coles Anthony New
Wijham B. Giles John Nicholas
$amuel Griffin J°h" Page
George Hancock Jofiah Parker
Carter B. Harrifon Francis Preston
John Heath Robert Rutherford
Richaid B. Lee Abraham Venable
James Madison Francis Walker
Andrew Moore
Kentucky,
Alexander D. Orr Chriftoplier Greenup
JSlorth-Caro/ina,
Thomas Blount Nathaniel Macon
William J. Daw Ton Joseph M'Dnwell
James Gslltfpie Alexander Mebane
Wm, Barry Giove Benjamin Williams
Matthew Locke Joseph Win Hon
South-Carolina,
Lemuel Benton Andrew Pickcns
Alexander Gillon Wm. Smith
John Hunter Richard Winn
Georgia,
Abraham Baldwin Thomas P. Carnes.
will meet the fiift Monday in De
cember next.
Boston, June $.
THE Supreme Exccuitve, we leant, has iffufd
certificates of the ele£h<in of ihe Hon..samuel
Holten, Pelec Wads worth, Dwjght
Foster, and Wilijam Lyman, Efquiies,
as Reprefentativcs to the Congiefs ot the United
States.
A informs, that considerable
debate has arisen in the Hon. Council, on the
propriety of issuing certificates to the two last
mentioned gentlemen ; and that the debate arose
from the idea, that the last piecepts iflucd by
tht- Supreme Executive, were informal, if not
ivhoUy illegal; as the Keloluiion of the Legisla
ture required, that the number of candidates
Cent out to the people, (bould be double that of
the Representatives to be chosen ; and that in
the instance of the Western Diltntt, and county
of Hampshire, (in which those gentlemen are
declared to be ele&ed) which are entitled to
two Representatives, only three candidates were
sent out: The confeqnence of this proceeding
is, that the choice of the people has been fruf
trated ; and that the pcrfon to whom a great
majority of the free ele&ors gave their suss.ages,
is debarred being their Representative, from the
circumstance of having been voted for both for
the Dijlricl and Ctunty, of both of whicb he was
that drcUrr.V • Candidate. A llatement of the
v.ii<» i i .U.zichc ihe fobjfti. The biglielt
(•u;r,!..r n'«"> • ' >*a»<>394; aud they weie lor
iht diltnt: n, tiii cr—o: which tbe Honorable
Dwicrii had 3535, <ud the Hon. Sa
moil Li mam,'-'Bs9—i 'c imirr votes for the
mc.ribfr, v*; ri ol which thr Hoi».
William Ly«an had 3135, a»d the H.m.
Samuel Lymam, 2866. — lhus brine Candi
date . 0 li tor DjiriLi ;ud C'Mitly, Mr. Samuil
Lyman, notwitl.Ujndinif he had o! 6394 elec
tor!, the futfrag-s of 5725, for their krpicffi.ra
ti vr, he it dei.Ui.-d NOT KLECTEO * and thole
who had abt;ve two thooG*i»d Irfi votes of the
Jtuu eleffcrt, are declared to be ihe Reprejeatativet
oj the Ptofte. Th: will of the People, in - Re
public, IS said to be the Supreme Law. If tfjis
principle be just, this election will lie declared
illegal.—And our correfpoadeut k*s beet in
formed, ihif it i* ihe opintgsof the
and ablest lawyers in tne Contmoiiwealthy :h*t
the House of Rcpr-ft ntaiivcs o< the Uniled
States, who a>e judges of the qual ficatioos of its
owts members, will declare the elrfiion
and of course a new one njuft take pltce.
UNIVERSITY OF PtMSiYLVANIA,
IT has hitherto been the pra&'ce of this
Seminary (as it was all along the practice
both pfthv* Oid College and of the old Univer
: fityj to exam ne the feverai rolls once a
week—and, on every fucb occaiion, to levy
fines (except where corporal punishment was
to be utfli&ed) on loch of the Students, as,
during the preceding week, had been either
late in their attendance, or abJent altogether,
at any particular fcilioj;.
But this practice, however good the design
with which it was it ft.tuted, was found to be
attended with some inconveniences. The
collet ion of so many petty fines was both
troublesome and degrading to the Profeflors.
Neither, after all, could the imposition ot
these fines be expected to produce the desired
eflfeft: for, ifconfiderable, they operated ra
ther as a tax upon the parents, than as a
punishment on the boys ; and, it inronfider
able, were but too apt to be disregarded —
And, as to corporal punishment, the inflic
tion of it so frequently, and ;n so public a
manner, could not but tend to wear out that
ingenuous sense of fti3me and regard to cha
racter, which it is one great end of education
to cherish and promote.
At a meeting therefore, of the Faculty,
held April 18th, 1793, it was unaninioufly
resolved,
" First, that all fines and corporal punish
ments for attending # late, or for being absent
altogether, at any particular session, shall be
abolished.
44 And, secondly, that, on the firft Wed
nefday of every month, there (hall he he-da
meeting of the r everal Profenorsand Tutors,
for the purpose of examining the general roll,
and comparing their several particular rolls ;
\frhen an accurate the attend
ance and behavior of each student, during the
preceding month, shall be; made out, and pre
ferred to his parents or guardian."
The faculty confide, that by thus extend
in&es it were, the authority of parents end
guardian*, there will be less need for the ex*
ertion of other authority : and that the ap
prehension of this monthly notice w\\\ be found
to have at least as much influence on the
minds of their pupils, as the apprehcnfion of
the weekly fines and punishments were found
to have formerly.
Published for the information of the pa
rents and guardians of the students and scho
lars at the University.
By order of the Faculty,
WILLIAM ROGERS, Sei'r y .
Philadelphia, June 11, 1793.
THE MEMBERS OF THE
INSURANCE COMPANY OF
NORTH AMERICA,
Are defred to take Notice t
THAT the Constitution requires Payment of
One Dollar on each Sfraie v on ihc Second
Monday (the Bih Day) of July n?xt, on Penalty
of Forfeiture of the Money already paid.
Such Stockholders as have not made their se
cond Instalment, are informed, that Payment
will be received at the Company's Office, No.
119, South Front-Street, either on or before the
said Day, as they mav find it qioft convenient.
EBENF.ZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
June 8. 1793.
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprietors of the Glafs-Manufaclory, under
the Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BEG leave to inform the public, that ihey have
now brought their WINDOW-GLASS to
such perfection, s will be found, on cotnpatifon,
to be equal, in quality, to the bill London
Crown Glass.
Having fixed their prices at a lower r*teth<>n
imported Glass, they are induced to helieye, that
importations of this article will be difcominued,'
iu proportion as their works are extended.—
They propose to enlarge the scale of this busi
ness, and as the success of it will depend on th
patriotic support of the public, they beg leavs to
solicit their friendly patronage iu the pursuit o.t
a branch which will interest every lover of :
American Man j factor es.
All orders for Wi ndow-Gl ass, of any size,
will be received at the Store ol Rhodes and
MacGricor, No. 234., Queeu-ftreet, New-
York, and at the Glass Wa r ehouse, No. 48,
Markct-ftreet, Albany, which will be pun&uaiJy
attended to.
WANTED, fix smart aflive LADS, not
exceeding 16 years of age, to be indented as
Apprentices, and regularly is.strutted in the
various branches of Glass-Making.
Also, three Window-Glass Makers, to whom
great encouragement will be given.
May 1, 1793.
440
STATE »/ RyODE-ISLAND «*<* TKOI •"
DENCE U>No.
In General AjjemVj, Ma) iejion, A. D. 1793.
RESOLVED, That an Ast paffrd hy ihi«
AIT. mMy at the May, A. D. 1791.
whereby lA.t* Bow in, Elq. C».™ IConer ot
Loans, was icqoefted »oi to loan an> *
certain drfcr.ution, .fried by th.- General I rea
fure, oi ihis State for M'.nifS due 10 ill. Soldieis
of the lau- Artny, in f .nfequence of their having
been fraudulently obtained, and the said Com
-111 <Hi oner was further requclWd 10 retain said
.Voies ill.his office until such fuwre ordeii Ihould
be thereon made,ac might consist withihe prin
ciples of yjftice and equity* be, aod ihe fame is
hereby repealed, so far as regards the detention
of*»hofe Notes.
It is further refolded. That the General Trea
surer atlvcrtife in all »he newfpaptrs in th«sftate,
and in the Gazette oj the United States, a d*fcrip
lion of the Note* thua fraudulently obtained,
with a caution to all perfoos not to purchase
them.
Lift of Notes obtainedfrom theTreafury
Office by fraudulent Meafurei, to wit :
Whs delivered. ■T» uhm When Amount »J
tayatle. payable. tit ftee.
i-f d -
Scpt.2s.SharpoChamplin, 44 1 £
Prince Cafe do- n *8 2
Stephen Charles do. 30 9 10
John Brown 1214
Czfar Cady do. 51 a 10
179°.
John Okey do. 43 19 11
Oft. 14. John Reed do. 31 4 °
John Horfley do. 29 o 6
William King do. 22 19 5
16. Prince SayJes do. 38 it 10
Br idol Arnold do. 38 9 6
Caefarßofr do. 36 12 8
Cudge Cham pi in do. 40 11 10
Jack Greene do. 40 8 6
18. Joseph Tanner do. 43 7 10
Cato Vernon do. 20 3 3
Daniel Sharpe do. 30 11 3
Prince Randal do. 38 11 <>
foftiua Dick do. *9 19 7
William Negro do. 29 5 o
23. Joseph H jII do. 39 12 .5
Benjamin Sprague do. 30 to o
Peter Harris do. 38 14 6
28. Sfrphen Aldrich do. 22 14 2
Wiiliam Mac Call do. 3,5 8 o
Prince CHilds do. 27 12 2
Leicester Wheeler do. 19 2 4
Pal Hackmet do. 25 14 o
Abraham Smith do. 24 14 8
John Thomas do. 4110 8
Jark Warden do. 31 o 2
John Brifto! do. 33 18 »i
Benjamin Reed do. 32 4 8
Cato B?nnifter do. 27 2 7
Nathaniel Wicks do. «o 8 5
Beuoni Hathaway do. 36 17 5
tvar) Evan* do. 28 7 2
Joseph Merry do. 32 8 7
Pero Greene do. 28 16 9
Nov. 5. Benoni Hunt do. 40 5 o
11. Cato Brown do. 37 5 7
Africa Bmk do. 27 a 9
London Slocutn do. 23 8 11
Ja. k Mintborn do. 27 2 q
13. Tibbrt T. Hopkins do. 41 13 8
17. Jacob Ned do. 40 o 16
Boston Wilbour do. 42 7 10
Tonv Phillips do. 27 3 o
Ephraim Rogers do. 623
Robert Goreham do. 41 o 10
24. Robert Howland do. 39 3 9
James Singleton do. 21 15 o
James Cross do. 35 4 6
Cato Sianly do. 21 o 10
John George do. 19 19 6
John Crandal d*. 77 12 2
Prince Power do. 19 4 9
Benedi& Aaron do. 75 10 8
Caesar Shelden do. 12 18 7
do. 1.7 17 9
Scinio De Welfe do. iq 14 10
Bristol Luther do. 18 2 3
John Hufley do. 28 11 5
Dec. t. Benjamin' Sweet do. 602
Silas Mawney do. 28 15 4
do. q o 4
6. Jamrs Mac Sparrow do. 28 16 3
11. Cato Bourse do. 6 10 2
Prim Gardner do. 71* 3
Joseph Wilkev do. 18 4 8
Cornelms Drafkill do. 18 4 8
Pero F nch do. 69 7 6
Dublin Briggs do. 47 4 8
Bridget Stajce do. 19 16 n
Edward Eafterbrocks do. 10 4 1
Cuff Arnold do. 5 10 3
Prime Clarke do. <53 16 6
John Mc Donnal do. 12 4 7
13. George Rohbi.ns do. 21 o u
John Morris Obrien do. 25 19 2
Prime Brown do. 41 1j 11
Solomon Mathews do. 33 5 6
Tack Siflon do. 40 7 8
Newport Greene do. 35 3 7
Lbeneier CxCac do. 11 6 8
John Elliott do. 2103
Reuben Thorp dp. 23 o 2
Thomas Randall do. 24 11 2
Thomas Durfee do. 22 11 6
Daniel Mammon do. 29 o 5
Richard Hopkins do. 45 3 o
H< nry Hazard do. 25 3 3
Levi Cole do. 9 4 *1
Allen Southwoith do. 18 iq 3
Richaid Allen do. 74 18 >0
Dec. 23. William Chadfev, en dcman4- *3 9 o
Ichabod Simmons do. 4 1 1
John Brown do. 1119 4
John Gavit do. 10 16 4
William Ackman do. 42 18 c
Jack Coddington do. 7iq 4
Cjef««r Gaidner do. 812 7
Toby Coyes 60. 71 17 10
John Willfon do. 63' 16 5
25. John £avet do. 66 6 1
* John Garrison do. 57 15 3
IN OBEDIENCE to the atore recited A& of
the General Assembly, I do hereby caution all
persons from receiving any of the above men
tioned Notes, without the most plenary proof
being made that they wer» obtained from the
office by genuine documents from the soldiers
eptSj.
epi 2 w
■w ho pcrffiim»d , o Whwft ttv*
wrrr t>>ui a 01 troni (Kii !*»;■«. »C 'cu;«r
iv:s Oi
HENRY SHhR|I!R\S,
Gt oc i At - T i e» t hi er.
a-
A r ewpofi t Hum 14- 17Q3-
By THOMAS jOHWiON, DAVID
$TUABT,&DAAIEL CARRQLL %
Efquirts,
Commission irs appoimed by CovrrnrrK-nt <0
preparr 'He Public buildings, &cc. wt(h*n th«
City ot Wajkl9gum % tor «>r rcxrp ion ol Con*
grcf*, «ut! lot ilic 11 fcrtuaeeitt 1 . faience /Ups
luc)carlßo0 —
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,«00 Tickets at 7 dollars, arc 350,000 dollars.
LIST Of PRIZES, viz
j Sopeib with baths. >
out h"ufes, icc.be.c. to coll j
1 Ca(h Pnae
) ditto
X (JILIO
2 ditto
2 ditto
,5, co« arc
1,000
500
lOQ
5°
2 5
BO
10
10 ditto
20 ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
16,737 P"*"
33,163 #l»nk»
5p,000
By this scheme At itaji the amount of the tick
ets wjil tt'lurn to the fortunate adventurers,
yer the fcdcra| City will gain its objr£t t&ere.Sy,
in a magnificent building designed both ior pub.
lie and private convenience.
Although lorre expenre must ccccffdrily at
tend the conducing of the lottery, (*btchex
pence will be taken from the principal prize) the
Commiflioneis having agreed to prefcut in re
turn a fufficient quantity of exccijcni frce-ftone,
tog«ther with (he best adapted lots for the ho:el
and for the out-houfes, the value of the fouery
entire may be fairly rated at fornithine more than
par: In this important inftanrc it wul be found,
on examination, to exceed all the louents that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other counuy. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to tbe
fortunate poffi {Tor of the ticket drawn aagaintfc
its number. —All the other prizes will be paid,
without deduction,in one month after the dialing, l»y
the City Treafu*"er at Walhingtoii, or at such
Bank or Banks as it;ay be hereafter announced,
for the convenitncy of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawii.g will commence on Monday the
6th of Scptembci next, at the City of Waflung
ton.
Tickets may be had of Col. Win. Dickens, City
Treafurrr of Wafliington ; Tha er (3 B rtlet, of
Charleston, Souih-Catolina ; Gideon Denijon, Sa
vannah ; Jfames Wejl £3 Co. Baltimore;
Mr. Peter Oilman, Button; and at such other
places as will be bereattei publifbed.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for thebeft Plan ol an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and told
Baths, Stables, and other out bouses, if prejented
onorbejori the 10/ A oj April next; and a pre
ference will be givm 'o the Ariift tor a Con
tract, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The grciind on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be ere&ed, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by 2CO feet, with*
back avenue to the stables, &c. Se6ti<>ns 2nd
efti.nates of the expense will . be
with the elevations, &c. compleat ; and 50.00#
dollars miift be regarded by the Aicb't«.& as the
utmost limn in the expense intended tor this
purpot'e. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the aiiaus of the City,
March 6, 1793- ■
City of Washington.
January j.h, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lois in this C»:y will be of
fered for Tale at au6l.cn, by the Coromif
fioners, on the 17th Hay of September n/rxt.—
One fourth part of the purehafe money ir to be
paid down, the residue at three equal annual pay
ments with yearly inter eft on the whole princi
pal unpairi. • -
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk ft> the Cem'rs.
Extra# of an Ast of the General Affemhlv of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Washington.
u Be it cnaftcd, That any \forcigr,er may by
deed or willy hereafter to he made. take and held lands
within that part of the jaid Territory which lies with*
in this State, in the f jme manner as if he u.as a citi»
zen of this State ; and the Jame lands may he con
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
of this State: Piovided, That no foreigner Ji>all %
in*virtue hereof, be entitled te anyfu>thet ot other
privilege of a citizen.'* •
l<n. 19.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, WaiUftrect, New-York.
THE Subfcrtber intending ti» confinehimfelf
entirely to the FURCHASE & SAit of
STOCKS on COMMlSSlON,begslcave to of
fer his fer vices to hisfriendsand othet s, in the
Jine ofa Stock Broker. Those who may pleas*
to favor him with their business. may depend
npon having it tranfa&ed with the utmoP* fide
lity and di fpa'ch
Orders from Philadelphia. Boftrfi. or any
other part of the United States, w ii 1 be ftriftW
attended to.
M-)
LEONARD BLEF.CKFR
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be had at SAMUEL COOPER'S Feiry.
50,QCC»
•fI'OOO
*o,QCQr
*5;ooo
*0,000
z o.cco
10.CCO
io,oco
10,000
10,000
i6,cco
20,0C0
l5°»oof
Dollars