-V
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NOPTH FIFTH.STRBET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 152 of Vol. IV.]
new go nstitution
F R A N C E.
DtcKUD i)the National ConV entioH.
fftCLARATION of the RIGHTS of MAN ani of
-4 the CITIZEJf.
PREAMBLE
THE French People, convinced that the neg
lect and contempt of the Natural Rightsof
Man are the sole causes of misery in the world,
have resolved to set forth in a solemn declara
tion thol'c sacred and unalienable rights, to ihe
end'that, it being in the power of every Citizen
to compare at all times the proceedings of go
vrrnment, with the end Of every focal com.
•past they may never fuller themselves to be op
prelfed and debased by tyranny ; that the people
m,y ever have before their eyes'thc bafts ol their
liberty and happiness ; the magistrate, the ex
lent Of his duty ; the legator, the object of
his aopointment. .
Wuh these vitws ihey proclaim in the pre.
fence of the Supreme Being, the following de.
elar'i'tion of the Rights of Man and ol the Cm
Art. I. Ybr'end of all [rtclfXv
...v,-., !s the public
haopm -isV Government is eftablilbed to secure
v to Man the enjoyment of his natural and impre
•fcrip'iblc rights.
11. These rights are equality, liberty, lecu
rity, property. , . ,
111. All men are equal by nature and in the
eye of the law.
IV The law isthefrefeand solemn expreflion
bf the general will ; it operates equally on all,
whether by piotedling or punishing; it can
command only what is jiift and ufelul to Tociety,
arid prohibit only what is hurtful.
V All Citizens aie equally admiflible to pub
lic employments. A free people know no other
motive of prclerence in their clefiions than vir
luc and talents. ' .
'VI. Libf.rty is the power which Man pol
felTe* of doiiig whatever is not hurtful to the
rights of others. It is founded in nature; its
bounds are marked bv justice; law forms its
proteflion, and its moral limits are dehned in
this m.axiin— Do not V> others, what you would
not wifti done to vourlelf.
VII. The light of exprefiing thoughts and
opinions either through the medium of the prers,
or a,ny other manner ; the right of quietly alicm
bllne ; the free exercise of relijnouf worlhip,
cannot be prohibited. The neccffity of making
mention of these rights, supposes the presence or
tbf recent remembrance ot despotism.
VIII. Security is the protc&ion afforded
' by society to'tach of its Members for the pre
fervatibn of his person, rights, and property.
IX.' The law (hould protcfl; public and indi
vidual liberty against the oppression of thole
Hvho govern- ,
X. No one can be accused, arretted or de
tained, but in the cases laid down in the law,
and agreeably to the forms prescribed. Every
Citizen fumtoon'dor arretted under the autho
rity of the law, (hould immediately obey, y
refinance he renders himfelf
XI. Every proceeding against a Citrzen out
of the reach or without the forms prefer 1 bed by
the law, is arbitrary and tyrannical ; the per on
against whom it {hould be attempted to be exe
cuted by force, has the right to repel it by force,
XII. Those who folic.it, dispatch, fig", exe
cute, orcaufe to be executed, arbitrary atts, are
; guHtv* and deftrve punilhment.
XIII. Everyman being presumed innocent
"until he has been declared guilty ; if it > s judged
nece(Taryfo arrt-ft him, all unnecessary rigour in
fccuHng Hitn, (hould be severely prohibited by
the law.
XIV. No one (hould be judged and punilh
ed until he ha 6 been heard, or legally *ppea e ,
unless he conges nnder a law made public
before the perpetration of the crime; the aw
"ptfjirih'rng actions* performed before its exilUnce
is tyrannical; the retrofpeftive effect of any law
is criminal.
XV. The law (hould only decree punish
ment's ftrittly and evidently necessary : -the pu
tiiftiment (hould be proportioned to the crime,
and ufeful to society.
XVI. The right of property belongs to every
citizen ; it is the right of enjoying Sua dilpol
ing at his will of his goods, revenues, or the
fruits of his labour and indoftry.
XVII. No species of labour, culture, or com
merce, can be prohibited*
XVIII. Every man may bargain for hit ler
vices and his lime; but he can neither fel lm
felf nor be fold. His person is not alienable
property. The law acknowledges no fetvitude;
there can be but an engagement to petform and
to 'pay an equivalent, between the man who
works and his employer.
XIX. No one can be deprived of the lealt
portion of his propeitv, without his consent,
W5 the public necessities legally afcertaincd
' require it, and under condition ot an adequite
and nrevious compeflfation. .
XX. No contribution can be required except
for the general benefit. All citizens have a
to concur in fixing the contributions; to
infpeft the expenditure of rhent, and to require
accounts of that expenditure.
XXI. Publit succours areafacred debt. The
. focicty owes relief to unfortunate etnzens, either
bv furni(hing them with work, or by securing
• the means df fubftflence to thole who art unable
to work.
Wednesday, September 4, 1793.
XXII. Iriftrnftion is necefTary to all: Society
should favour as much as poflible the progress
of public reason, and place tne means of inflec
tion within the teach of every citizen.
XXIII. The fpcial compact consists in the
endeavours of all to assure to each the enjoy
ment and preservation of his rights , this com.
pa£t rcftsUpon the National sovereignty.
XXIV. It cannot exist unless the powers of
pubiie functionaries are clearly defined by the
law. and their responsibility well iecurcd.
XXV. The sovereignty of the nation rcfides
in the people. It is indivisible, imptefcriptible
and unalienable.
XXVI. No portion of the people can exercise
the powers of the whole people ; but each sec
tion of the fovereigr. assembled shall enjoy the
right of expreffiiig its will with entire liberty.
XXVII. Let any individual who should at
tempt to sovereignty. be .immediately
put to death by freemen.
XXVIII. The people bave always the right
to revise, reform and etiange their constitution.
One generation cannot bind by ils laws future
generations.
XXIX. Every citizen has an equal right to
concui in making the law, and in appointing
his representatives and agents.
XXX. 'Public offices are essentially ternpo
rarv ; they cannot be considered either is con
ferring diftinftion, or as but as duties.
XXXI The crimes of the repiefentativcs of
the people, or their agents, should never go un
punidled. No one has.a right to assume an in
violability that does not belong to other cut
zens. _ . .
XXXII- The right of prehnhn* petitions to
the dcpofitaries of public authority, can In no
cafe be prohibited, fufper.ded or limited.
XXXIII. -Refinance to opprrflion is a con
sequence of the other righis of man.
XXXIV. The social body is oppreiled, when
one of its members is oppress d. Each indivi
dual of the social body is oppressed, when the
social body is oppressed. <.
XXXV When ihe gfrvemment violates the
rights of the people, inlurrcftton is to the peo.
pie and each portion of the people, the molt la
cted of rights and the moll indifpenfible ot du
ties.
CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC.
Art. 1. The Rroublic is one and indivisible.
Of the dijlrifottion of the People.
1.. The French people are divided, for the
exercise of their sovereignty, into pumary al
femblies of cantons. . .
o. They are dif.ded, for 'the admimftration
of justice, into departments, dtftrifts, municipa
lities. ' . , , . .
Of the political fitaatwn of citizens.
A • Every pe.fon born and fettled in France,
21 year, ago ; every ilrangef of ai years of age,
who fettled in France for one year, li*es by his
labour, or acquires a property ;■ or *
French woman, or adopts a child ; or supports
an infirm person ; every stranger in fine who
(hall be judged, by the legislative body, to have
defcrved well in the cause oIF humanity, is a -
mitted to the exercise of the rights of a French
; "r n Thc exercise of (he rights of i French, tj£
zen is forfeited by natur.laatmn .n fore'gn
countries ; by the acceptance of " '
or favors from a government not te P ubl ' can '
by the condemnation to ignominious, or corpo
ral punifhinent, until rehabilitation.
6. The exercise of the rights of cmMos »
firfpended, while under accusation ; by a Icn
tence of non-appearance, so long as the sentence
is not retraftcd. .
Of the Sovereignly of the People.
y. The /overeign people, is the whole mass
of French citizens. , •
8 They appoint immediately their d p •
q They delegate to ekftor.s the choice of ad
min,ftrato", of public atbi.ers, of criminal
judges and those of'final appeal.
10. They deliberate upon the laws.
Of firimar) ajjembhes.
Primary affemblics consist of citizens re
fidinc tor fix months in a canton.
it. They are composed of 200 citizens
lead and of 600 at most, entitled to vote.
.3 They arc constituted by the nommanon
of a president, secretaries, and inf.-eaorsot bal
lo'i4. They regulate Iheir internal police,
t' No one can appear at them, armed.
,6. The eleaions are either by ballot or viva
M ? 7 a A h pnmaryaffemblycanin no cafe pre
of cft'izTns who P , un able to write, with however
W ; g 0t The quXon. on the law, are decided by
yes and no primary assembly is pro
i " T^hul—-The citizens assembled >o pri
tTa Wof »number voter,,
vote Hor or against] by a majority of
Of the National Representation.
41 population is the only basis of'the Na
a deputy for every 4 o
tho usand y atTemblic,.
competing « *'°°°
"™oSoo r'quire." abfoluU ma
countdown »<*
525
fen&4 s commiflioner for the general colle&ion
of ,to the place fixed as most central.
26. If the firft trial does not give any one an
absolute majority, a second election takes place,
the votes being confined to the two .citizens
highest i,n ,
(To bt continued.)
[The fotlowing paper throws great light on
the revolution of the 31ft of May.]
Adirefs of the members of the National Convention,
ordered to be put undet arrejiy to the French na-
"WHEN the liberty of the national re
presentation is no more, and truth is ftifled,
the temple of the laws mutt be ftiut. Thus,
unable to execute the trust reposed in us, it is
our indifpepfable duty to inftrytt you. We
(hall entirely confine ourselves to evident
facts, and leave to you the care of drawing
the neceflary consequences from them.
w A law had been enacted, which prescrib
ed the formation of committees in {he dif
ferent fediions of Paris, destined to watch
over foreigners and suspicious people. This
law was eluded. Inllead of thpfe commit
tees, others were formed in the most illegal
manned contrary to the letter oifthe law as
well as its intention.
" Thtfe illegal revolutionary eonimitteea
have created a central commit tee ,
of one member from every committee of
each feiftion. This central committee, after
some clandestine deliberations, has suspended
the constituted, authorities : it has. affiimefj
the title of the revolutionary council of the
■departmtnt of Paris, and has inverted itfelf
with a power; or rather usurped
it.
ii An extraordiary committee had been de
creed within the bosom of the Convention, to
denounce the illegal and arbitrary a£fcs of the
different constituted authorities of the Re
public; to trace and discover the plots form
ed against the liberty and security of the na
tional representation, and to taufe all persons
to be arretted who fliall be denounced as
chiefs of conspiracies. Surrounded by an
armed force, those revolutionary committees
demanded, on the 27th of May, the suppres
sion of this commiflion. Their requelt was
decreed, but od the next,day, on a vote by
nances, it,, deferred till the committee
fhouW have made their report.—(They con
stantly refufed to attend the report.) On the
30th the revolutionary council intimated to
the Convention their order to suppress the
extraordinary commission. Amidst armed
petitioners, surrounded by cannon, under con
tinual hidings and hootings from the galle
ries, some members decreed the suppression
of the commission. On the 3 general
was again beat; and the tocsin founded,, and
the alarm-gun fired. At thefV signals the ci
tizens took \ip arms, and were ordered to as
semble around the convention. Some depu
tations demanded a decree of accusation a
gainst 55 members of the convenfion. The
afTembly, who had before unanimously reject -
ed this petition, as calumnious, when in the
month of April it was brought forward by
fom6 Sections, supported by the municipality,
now referred it to the committee of public
fafety, and enjoined the members of that
committee to give in their report within
three days. On the Ift of June, at three in
the afternoon, the revolutionary council
marched thejr armed force to invert: the Hall;
at night they appeared at the bar, and de
manded a decree of accusation, against rhe
denounced members. The convention paikd
to the girder of the day, and ordered the pe
titioners to deposit with the coQirmttee
public fafety the proofs of the crimes imput
ed to the accused deputies.
« Since the 30th of Mat, the barriers had
been shut, the adminiftratars of the polt im
pended, the journals flopped, the mails search
ed, the letters broken open and sealed again,
either with a leal bearirg this iifcnption
Revolution of the ft a y *793» / WI l
another, inferibed—The Committee of pub-
M Tba committee of public fafety were
waiting for the nectary proofs to make
their report, when 01 Sunday, June 2, the ft*-
volutionary council appeared again at the bar,
and demanded, for the I ast time, the decree
of accusation Against the denounced members.
The afTembly paffcd again to the order of the
day. The petitioners now gave a signal to
the fpertators to leave the Hall and run to
arms, for the purpose of obtaining that by
open force which justice would not grant.
About noon the general was beat, the
tocsin founded. The citizens were forced to
take up arms and obey the orders of a com
mander, whom the revolutionary council had
placed at their bead : more than 100 cannon
fu. rounded she National Hall ; grates to heat
red hot balls were placed in the Chainp Ely
fees.
" The guard of the Convention, as well as
all true citizens, were confined In different
guard houses ; cannon were pointed towards
the avenues; tlw gatei were shut, and the
entries ordered to flap all the deputies who
[Whole No. 454-]
might attempt to pa ft them, and to fire a*
every one who*'lhould attempt to peep acrois
the bars. DniTaulx the venerable Duflaulx,
was beaten in a most infamous manner »
Roifly d'Anglas had his shirt torn! a great
number of other deputies were insulted, by
the vile satellites of Marat. The battalions
which several days back ftaould have marched
to La Vendee, arrived on a sudden, and seized
upon the inner posts of the Hall. Ailignats
and wine were among them.
These troops were destined to aflaflinate jour
Reprefen-tatives, and would have done it, be
cause the National Guards were not able to
prevent this (laughter. The aflailants were
provided with the best arm?, while the
tions complained of the want of them. In
short, the National Hall was turned into a
prison, where the Representatives of the peo
ple were threated, disgraced, and insulted.
It was demanded that the committee of pub
lic fafety, to calm the rage of the seduced
people who invested the -Hall, should make
their Report.
Barrere mounted the tribune, and.speak
ing in the i}ame of the committee, proposed,
t-l*e denounced members against whom
no proof whatever of the crimes imputed to
them had been produced, Ibould be invited
to suspend tbemfelves from their functions.
Some of them submitted to this measure. A
detree pafled, that the commander ol the arm
ed force (hould be orcje-red to the bar, to ac*
count for his conduA, ai)d inform the Con
vention from whom he had received his or
ders. This decree was not executed. Two
of the fa&ious invaders infu'ted a deputy, and
were ordered to be taken to the bar. Vio
lence and open force opposed also the execu
tion of this fecopd decree. Then it was re
queued, that the fitting ftoukl be ended, and
the temple of the laws shut, jAn end was
put to tbe fitting, tile President walked out of
the hall at the head of the convention, and
ordered the centries to withdraw.
" The convention reached the middle of
the court without meeting any rtftftapce, but
being arrived there,; the copmiandcr ot the
armed force ordered them to return. The
President told him that the convention was not
to be coated to : that it held its authority in
dependent of any other power thato the French
people, and that they alone had a right to
commaud it. The:commander, Henriot,drew
hisfwoid, ranged his cavalry in order of bat
tle,and ordered the cannoneers to point their
cannon. His soldiers were ready to. fire—
The President turned back, the members fol
lowed him, snd attempted every outlet in or
der to escape, bnt every avenue was closed or
defended by cannon. At length, the copveti
tion, unable to retire, rt fumed their fitting.
What do we fay ? they returned into their
prison, and some members decreed, tha.6
Genfonne, Gander, Briflbt, Gorfas, Petion.
Vergniaud, Salles, Barbaroux, Chambon,
Buzot, Biroteau, Lidon, Rabaut, Lafource,
Languinais, Grargenenve, le Sage,. Kervele
gan, Gardien* Boileau, Bertrand, Vigee, Mo
levant, Lariviere, Gomajre, and Bergoin,
Ihould be put under arrest in their own houses.
And why? We mnft not forget to mention,
that on the proposal of Marat, Couthon de
manded, that Valaze and Louvet should be
added to that number, and that some mem
bers gave their consent, for the greater part
of them did not take any (hare in these hu
miliating deliberations. After the decree
was signed, a deputation made its appearance
to teftify its approbation of the decree, and
tendered an equal number of citizens toferve
as hostages for the arretted members.
« Frenchmen ! who would be free and
Republicans, these are facts, which no one
will dare to deny ; we represent them to you
only in a mass, and forbear to enter into de
tails still more attrocious. The National
Representation imprisoned, disgraced, de
liberating under the poignards of an audacious
faction, is no more. Do notfuflfbr any longer
the usurpation of your rights) do not leave
in such hands the exercise of the sovereignty
of the nation ; rescue the libei ty, the sacred
equality, the unity and indivifibiHty of the
Republic ; without them France it loft. Re
ject with horror all proportions tending to
any kind of federaliCm. Rally, unite, and be
firmi you may still save the public caufr.
This public cauTe resides in the whole of your
country | it is not confined nor concentrated
within the walls of Paris. Your deputies may
there perilh, but they will die worthy of you,
and worthy of themlelves too happy, if after
their death their country Ihould be saved.
When the moment of national revenge is
come, then Frenchmen, do not forget that
Paris is not guilty, that the citizens of Paris
were ignorant of the plot, of which tbey
have been made the blind tools. No ! it is
not upon Paris that the dreadful and all pow
eiful hand of the nation ought to bear down ;
but on that horde of robbers and criminals,
i who have made themselves matters of Paris,
who are devouring Paris and France, who
cannot, exist without crimes, an<| have »o
other refuge left but in del'pair, the oflsjring
of vice. Farewell."
O*
foreign Intelligence.
BRUSSLLS, June 4.
WE were greatly lurprized to fee
the ex-general Dumourier arrive
here, at the moment: when all the
world imagined that '£■ had taken
up his refulence for a iong time in
the mountains t>f Switzerland : but
we learn, that the pacific canton of
Zurich, which he had chosen for
his retreat, dreading the intrigues
of this lubtie politician, begged him
to quit that t«rr l it<Jry. Dumourier.
then applied to the Elector of Co
logne tor an asylum, but the Elec
tor returned this very short answer :
" I cannot receive him as an emi
grant ; and as a Jacobin 1 would
hang him." After this, Dumourier
directed his way hither, hoping to
obtain permiHiori to Hay in the Lo.w
Countries, on account of liis ar
rangements with the Prince de Co
bdul'g.
Bin unfoiinnately for Dumou
rier, he publifbed a pamphlet at
Frankfort, entitled, " A Letter from
General Dumourier to the i'refident
of the N.iti ntal Convention and
to this piece, was added a procla
mation under the title, " General
Dumourier to the French people."
In this work, among other things,
he fays, that not wilhing"td employ
his talents to the difiriCuibcrmentof
his country, he is going to employ
his pen for the purpole of enlight
ening his fellow-citizens and com
batting the anarchists. In another
part he mentions, that at the time
of his fir ft proclamation, the Pjince
de Cobourg proniifed to allow him
ro atft for the purpose of restoring
order in France —that he would
assist him wfch all his troops in cafe
of need—rand would restore to the
lawful king of France, after the
re-ettab!ifhment of the monarchy,
all the places that might be taken
or confuted to the Auftriatis. But
that a superior authority, having
ftion after obliged the Prince Gene
ralilfimo to revoke his proiniie, he
quitted (he army, after ftlpulating
favorable terms for his companions
in arms. In the course of the pro
clamation, Ouniourier invites all
..French citizens to range ihemfelves
with him under the colours of the
x happy confutation of 17S9 —90, and
91.
This pamphlet had a very exten
sive iale, and made so much noise,
llistt tiie government taking cogni
zance of its contents, had all ihe
copies found at the bookiellefs fe.z
ed. ; condemned the printer to pay
a fine, and had his prefies broken
to pieces.
We are nflured, that Dnmonrier
has flnce been ordered to quit Brus
sels anil the Low Countries, and
that he is going to London.
June 20.
We had a great misfortune here
111 the military hospital of Sc. Eli
zabeth, on the,xßrh. Five thoi}-
faiui lacks of wheat, which had
been carried to that place prelled
so heavy 011 foine of the joilts that
the floor gave way and fell down.
The wounded men who were in
their beds fuffered greatly by this
disaster. There were about 400
persons in this hospital, inoie than
43 of whotn 'Were killed. They
were interred this day.
TOULON, May 30.
Ballerot, Captain of tlie Minerva
frigate, coTiv'nTted of having con
fpiied againit the republic, and af
terwards against a sentence pafled
by a court martial, has been guillo
tined.
BATONNE, May iy
We are here in a jno(V alarming
crisis. Yesterday a council of war
was held, in the prefenceof the na
tional deputies, and the result was,
the breaking up of the three caqjps
which were 10 form a principal one
at Bidart, and t'»hs fiielter this ciiy
from a siege.
In being obliged to take this pre
caution, themoft didailrous f ircum
rtance is, that a territory of several
leagues in extent is to be 'abandon
ed, to the enemy. Add to this, the
Sacrifice of fevt-ral field pieces, which
are abandoned, after having been
spiked. «t Andaye. These extreme
mealures announce a very weak
state o.f defence.; and (hall be very
fortunate if we can pieferve this
place, thfc polfeHion of which is, on
every occasion, so very important.
MARSEILLES, May 30.
A few days after the installation
of the judges of the popular tribu
nal, eftabliihed in this city, several
persons, convicted of having levied
forced contributions, weri ton
denined by this tribunal to. futfer
death. j *
The. procurator of. tb«j,c»n»nions,
who was-tried and scqoiltfed," com
municated a horrid plot, which.was
to hdve equalled in its execution-the
infamous maflacre of .St. flarftio
loinew. * _
For tbis diabolical purpose the
municipal had ati e*:r?of<Ji
nnry meeting, at whicli a ( ll themem
bers were sworn to fecre,ty,BS tot he
objetft of their intended delibera
tions. V:
A member now profented the in
fernal project, which wast carried
by a majority of vi'icis, and the
purport of which was, that the city
trumpets fhouhl be founded at an
early hour in the morning, and a
proclamation made to fiwhid the in
habitants to quit their houses bn
pain of death ; all those \*h(f were
fufpetfted \vere to te fcondatfjed to
the church of St and
Fort Sajnt Jean, there to, ba
cred, and their houses pUlsgejd.
This flepofition made by tlie pro
curator of the Commune, con
firmed by four municipal ofhceis ;
and an infinite nurtiber o' Bopfes
were.found marked with redch*ll'.
Iti coufequence of the proofs of this
abominable plot, the popular 1 ri-bu
nal iflued a great number of man
dates of arrelt ; but a great mini
ber of the confpirators-inade their
escape. ■■
At the hot>fe of one of tbefe;
Izoard, was found a trunk, contain
ing about fifty marks of (ilver. An
other confpiraior, Huge, was iin -
prisoned, and his interrogation be
gan to throw considerable ,tiglu on
this myfteiious affair, when lie con
trived to strangle hiinfelft in the
piifon, with the ribbon that tied his
hair. Lezard, a municipal rjfficer,
on hearing ot the apprebeiifion of
Izoard, blew oiit his brains at the
fort of Notre Danie de la Guard,
where he was stationed as a senti
nel over the Bourbon family j ai)d
the secretary of rtie Jacobin Club
threw himfelf out of a window, and
was killed on tbe fpor. We have
apprehended several of the conj'pi
rators, and have discovered' that the
plot extended to the neighbouring
villages
LONDON, jnlyug.
An ofiicial narrative of a late Tally
from Mentz; made by th? enchj
speaks of the loss 011 both fides, as
very severe—The bold dellg.n of the
enemy in this expedition: was no
less than to destroy thd Pr'jnffian
camp, and kill or carry 6fF n G<npral
Kalkreoth, and his, Royal
Prince Louts of Prulfia ; •in this
they failed, many of them falliiig
by the fire of: rheir own artillery at,
Mentz, in their retreat.
In the neighborhood of Mar
seilles, the end of the ap
pear to be. that of emancipating
the department entirely frpni any
form of government which may be
itnpofed by the whole representa
tive Body of France, aiuf letting
np an independent or a fiinply fe
derate Itate, atfiiug only with the
whole, according to its volitive pro
pensity, as time and circumstances
may suit.
Other department*, pronounced
in a (late of infurrtiTtion, infiii up
on the restoration of tile conltituti
-011, formed two year# since j at the
fajne time expreifing n,» disapproba
tion of the late puniftajga*-' it)flirt
ed upon the king, conGJVriiig. him
secretly holtile 10 that constitution.
Otir treaty with Russia obliges us
to continue the war as long as it
fliall please the empress of all the
Rll Hi as to go on—a tolerable pros
pect this' affords us of a speedy
peace
- Our treaty with the prince of Hes
se Cafi'el is in the usual way of bhy
526
ii.jr so many huniar beings to be f;t
on iheir iellow cieaturesat
so. lnucji per life.
J,he king has appointed Mr. Dun
das President of (lie Kaft India
board, with a yearly salary of 5090!.
Dumourier", it is said, to
America.
Vh£ unfortunate young prince
the Dauphin, it is said, has got a
rupture ; and upon application to
the municipality, they have direct
ed the bandage-maker of the pri
sons to attend him. Ot the other
royal prifotiers scare any thing is
kno,wn.
Kerrand, who commands Valen
.iennes, is one of the molt experi
enced and bravest officers in the
French service.
If ilie hypocritical humdrum pro
clawation, pobliflied by Dumourier,
r.nder the title of an address to the
French nation, be able to cloak all
his wrongs, and diflipate the fears
which the intrigues of the molt
jeftlefs genius, and the molt cor
rupted mind, must naturally inspire,
we have only to remark, that clit
tinguiftied scoundrels enjoy very
eminent advantages bver honeit
ine-n.
The balloon, which some days a
go ascended from Conde, had a
('matt packet, containing two letters
pending to it. Ihe firft was ad
drei!ed to the President of the Con
vention, and the second to the Mi
niver of the War Department—
They limply stated—
'' Citizen?,
" We are fiji rounded on nil quar
ters by the enemies of the French
Republic. We lament recent mif
fortunes. The recollection., howe
ver,_of the glories of Jemappe, ani
mates and inflames us with military
emulation.—We are lovers of li
berty, and have sworn to maintain
it. Provisions are scarce, but our
enthusiasm is undiminilhed. We
will repel the enemy, or die in the
attempt.
(Signed) J. V. D.
By order of the Commander."
From the garrifun at Conde f
May 30.
" The originals are in the Prince
of Cobourg's pdflifffion. The wjntt
was very favorable for the experi
ment ; but the balloon paving bee®:
overcharged with inflammable, air,
the design was rendered abortive."
We are told from Brnfiels, that
they have positive jnformatioif, that
the Spaniards having forced the
pafl'age of the Iron, after having
poffe'lled themffelves of Andaye, are
marching in force to Bnyonne, to
lay siege to that city, which is con
sidered as the only place capable ef
making any refinance ; and after
the reduction of which, the «!iien>y
■will have the road clear to Bour
deaux.
31 ■ ,
Julv 7.
The report of the defeat of Gaf
toti gild the royalilts under his com
mand, by the 'republicans com
manded by general Biron, is ex
ttpmely .improbable.
The troops acluaHy engaged in
the liege of Valenciennes, amount
to iß,joC>. The covering armies
under the prince of Cobourg and
the duke of York, are about 80,000
more ; a finall army blockades
Quefnoi, and about 4000 men are at
Cotide. The Pruffiaivs, Dutch, the
Englifh'cavalry lalt arrived and the
37tlv regiment, form the. line be
tween Valenciennes and Oftend.
By a veflel arrived ar Kalmouth,a
letter is received from an officer on
board the Windsor Cattle, dated
with admiral Gell's squadron in Gi
braltar Bay, on the 19th ult. which
gives an account of theSpanilh fleet
being then at anchor there. It
Hates, that on the Britilh squadron
firlt appearing off theie, the Spa
nish admiral, taking them for the
enemy, had prepared for action.—
Besides the Spanish and Eugliih
ships of force, there were 011 the
above date ten Portnguefe frigates
in the Bay, and it vtfas admiral Cell's
intention, as soon as possible, to fail
up the Straits, in quest of a French
fleet of 25 fail. ihe Flora frigate
and the Bull-dog sloop had been
.very fortunate, having captured and
feiu into the Bay, a French frigate
and several merchantmen, some of
which arc richly laden. •
United-States*
CHARLESTON (S. C.) iuguft
YESTERDAY arrived the I
Thomas, Peyrinaut, in 17 days si
Cape-Francois'—ln this veUel ct
100 white paliengers: on her ]
I'age Ihe plundered by the N
Providence privateer Hoop Susan:
Capt. Tucker, on the 30th oh
plate and cash to the amount
60,000 crowns j. also thirty five
groes-—(lie was then penniued
proceed on her voyage. " '
Capt. Peyrinaut spoke with t
Biitiih frigates Ihoitly utter he 1
eel ; the Captains of which, lb
from availing themselves of thei
trefl'ed and d*Tencelef» ftttte of
enemy, congratulated them on 1 h
happy escape, in terms equally,
lite and humane. Such cond
will ever dillinguilh the brave w
rior and true gentleman from th
lawlels plunderers and savage r
fians with which the Wett-India f
at present abound.
The son of the late Count de Gra
is amongst the paflengeis arrived
the Thouia,.
HANOVER (N. H.) Atigttft 26.
Last week arrived here, the IV
Mr. Ogden, on his return lrom
excui fion tq'Quebec, through tl
(late ahd Vermont. On Sund
lalt he officiated in the new chur
in Hartland.
By him -yve learn, that great pea
and prosperity prevail in thjeneig
liorirtg provinces ; that the seal
has been fertile, and the harvi
will be very valuable, —Emigratio
are constant into Upper Canada, a
every encouragement given to m
of enterprize. The national ger
rofity has been extended to the Lt
alifts, and large grants of land giv
to them. That a mild and exc
lefit fyft<m of government is efts
lilhed—thiu thegreateft indulgen
in religious liberty prevails. Ai
to give further prosperity to fociet
by the aid of religion, large fui
are constantly paid from Englai
to fopport Proteflant Ckrgyme
and circulate books. An Hap]
harihony prevails among all den
initiations of chriltians. The C
tholic ehurchesare crowded as ufu~
their Temples are in good repai
and new ones building—and evei
order and denomination of Clerj
are well and honorably fupporte
and encouraged in doing their dui
The Rev. l)r. Mountain, la
Chaplain to the Bilhop »f Londoi
is appointed, and Ihortly expe&ei
as Bishop of Qannria, with a falai
from England. Lord Dorchester
alio expected this Cummer in Qu<
bee
Upon the arrival of tfie'Governc
and Bifliop, plans will be concerte
for eretling a University, and Acs
demies in the provinces.
Mr. Qg<jen, a& a friend to univei
sal peace, and general happiness o
all mankind, and the honor of a'
nations, declares, that he has man
reasons for believing, that a wa
between the Indians and States i
abhorrent to the rulers and peopl
of the provinces, and dirfctfly con
trary to the willies, interelt, an
policy of the English nation.
It is hoped by all ranks in Canada
that the prefeut triaty may issue •
ellablilhing peace throughout Nortl;
America, between savage and civil
ized nations.
Some time fines," Oliver Spencer
the son of Col. Oliver Spencer, o
the late American army, was takei
a prisoner by the Indians near Ken
tticky, and carried into their coun
try. Early this rummer he attend
ed the warriors to Kingston, in Ca
nada, »nd being dtfcoveretl to i
lady, the daughter of Isaac Ogden
Esq. of Ouebec, and other old ac
quaintance of his father's, & friends
a purse was made of >wo hundrec
dollars, anil by the influence ot th'
British commanding officer, thi 1
yonih of twelve years of age, ws )
redeemed,* and returned to hi:
friejtvds. in Elizabeth- F«>wn> New
Jeifey, on his way to his pai ents.NEW- YORK, August 31.
On the part of'l lie Minilter Pleni
potentiary of the Republic, and of
the Commander of the Squadron.
IT is commandedto all Sailors and
Soldiers, formerly embarked 011
board the Jupiter, to deliver to the
Permanent Committee,' the Arms
wbich they have carried with them;
and to all the Sailors in general, not
to carry Arms wfth them, under the
Penalty of being arrested, and im
mediately conducted to Prison.
New-Turk, Augujl 30.
The Mayor orders the Constables
and Marjhals to pubjiih ,the above
Order, and unless they are inliant
ly complied with, the Disobedient
will be punished. R. V.
Cambridge, Augult 19.
At a refperfable meeting of the
landholders-, and other citizens of
Dorchelter county, .EsiUern Shore
. of Maryland, on the 19th of Augult,
?• 1793, -Col. John Ecclelton in the
i# ch.tvr, the following Address to the
Prefideiit of the United Stales, on
his Proclamation, declaratory of
Neutrality, was brought in by a
Committee appointed for that pur
pol'g, and unanitnoufly voted.
■h a deep sense
ble peace, and
trality of 1 lie
United States, towards the bellige
rent pawersof Europe. Of war we
have had a ihare—That it was in a
glorious cause, will, we hope, ever
prove ill'the recollection, a motive
to a conduct both dignified and
spirited ; but we likewile hope that
it will always be, as we believe it is
at present, the disposition of all our
fellow citizens, to cultivate that pa
cific national character focongenial
with our Republican Government,
and so necellary to its purity and
duration. Your proclamation we
think conformable to the solid in
terests of the country, its eXpreifiops
warranted by the opinions & wishes
of our fellow-citizens, and to have
been inlpired by the'true fpir.it of
that Constitution, under which we
•enjoy the sweets of civil
and abundant prosperity. T6 this
additional proof of that vigilant pa
triotifui, to which we have been so
often and so highly indebted, we
beg leave to give our unanimous
approbation.
IftHK Eccleston .Chairman.
Attest. i
Ch. S. O'Neil, Secretary~.m
To the Landholders and other Citizens
of Dorch'fler County, Eajlern Shore
of Maryland.
Fellow CitfzENS,
TOUR Approbation of the mea
sure which 1 have taken to declare
to the world the Neutrality of the
Uiined States, towards the belligc-
renc powers of Europe, gives me
sincere pleasure. And it is jio less
pleating to me to pbferve the difpo
fitioiivt'hichydu matfifeft to preserve
onr country in a state of peace, as
the only means of promoting our
national prosperity, and ensuring a
cotuinuance of rhofe bleflings which
our country enjoys in an eminent
digree. G. WASHINGTON.
Philadelphia, Augvjl' 24, 1793'
SIR,
While I acknowledge the receipt of your
polite Jeltecof the. 2Jlt iuftant, enclosing the
iefolutions of a number of r.fpo&able inha
bitants of t'.e county cf New-Gaftle, let me
rerjut'ft you to ali'u e tliofe Gentlemen, that.
I confi ler theii approbation of the late pro
clamation of the neutrality of the United
States, anil of tlie measures taken by the go.
Vcrnittent to secure to this country a Con
ti'mince cf thole,manifold bleflings \yhich
bo attendant <>n a state of peace, as a new
proof i f that enlightened vifdom and philan
thropic (Jifpofition which has ever marked [he
virtuous citizens of the United' States.
: 'Jo M'XtMLY
H limingtoiiy Auguji 31
Portland, {Pijirifl Maine.)
At a meeting of the merchantj and otners, w Mr
town of S f oitk)ar+nnvth, (nfcobay, the i ftfh dav of
Jtugufly the jo(!awing resolutions were utikniyoij
!y adopted: '
l. THAT peace and tranquility are blei
jfings which ought to be considered at all fifties
in llife hVgheft estimation, arid that the prcfei-
Vat ion of" them is clTential to our pretert hap-
and the prosperity of our country.
Go. WASHINGTON.
.tat especially when so many powers
a.re at \ya. with each other, we, who. can "0
l<ee and imnv,lofted tod.fferd.U ports,:as hevc
totoie, when the fame powers were at ij-si:a
with each other, myft undoubtedly partake ..f
advantages peculiar to our happy fitttatHin ;
and that therefore it is our inrerelf by all
meaps to avoid any interference whatever
that may be construed by any of the belliger
ent powers as a departure fioiff'that neutra
lity already declared.
3- That we highly approve the late Procla
mation ot the Prejident of the United States;
and being lenfible of our present happy efta
bliihnient, we will do ail in our power as
good citizens, with integrity and uprightness,
to support the o'ujcfts'of his recommendation,
and thereby promote the benefits we mjoy,
and the general prosperity of our
aiul that we will difcounteH&nce whateveV
may be conlidered as deviating from the ftiwTU
ell line of neutrality, fliouldany steps of that
fort be di (covered by us, in any of our fellaw
citiz»ns.
Voted, that these proceedings be printed in
the Portland papers; and tfcat a
transmitted to t-he Hon. Thomas Hulfel, Efq,
to (hew our hearty cnnturrenr» with our fel
low-citizens of the town of Boston ; and, that
tlie chairman sign it.
WILLIAM MARTIN, Chairman'.
Philadelphia, Sept. 4.
From the Gazette Nationale ou Lc Mofii- .
teur Universal, Pointed at Paris, June 24
and 28, 1793* r-'ceived by Capt. Malays,
from L'Orient.
Two works have been published.in Gertya
ny, the firft entitled, a poem rompofed bijojt aid
ajtcr the death of Lauu Xl'l,—Tin- other in Ai
inavtt of the Piflim of the Revolution, with tin's— 9
Gustavus and Louis are the firft.—The
French pai agraphia adds to this article, the
following remark ; that it is a bold attempt
on the part of the Houle of Aufti'ia, to charge.,
itfelf with reviving in this manner, the Love
of Kings in Europe.
Travellers who arrived at Maldenade and
Montevido, Spanish places, relate an extra
ordinary phenomenon which happened inthfc
river La Plata lalt April—an ijnpe tuoiisjwpnd
roie, it blew with a violence so extreme, that
it drove tl)« waters of the river ten leagues
distance from in banks—all the neighboring
cbuntry was inundated, the bed of the river
was left dry—This terrible irruption disco
vered vessels which had been loft for thirty
years—they found among othefs an English
lKip which was wrecked in the year 1762—
many persons went to the place—and walked
all about the bed of the river on dry feet ;
they are returned loaded with the lilver and
spoils which had been fwal lowed up in the vefTels
—This phenomenon which ought to be rank-"
ed in the number of the grand revolution;; of
nature, lafled three days, it the end of which
time the winjl ceased, and the waters return
ed with grand impetuosity to the natural bed ( .
of thfc river.
Numbers of persons in prison June 19, ar
retted by tbe department of Pari? :—
Coiciergerie, 325 > Grand Force, 33 1-—
70 of which .are ; Petite Force, 108 ;
Sainte Pelagie, 131; Madelonnettes, 80;
Abbaye, 69—of which 23 are military, and $
hnftages; Bicetre, 214—a !a Salpetriere, 45 f
Chambre d'Arret 4 la Maine, 39. Tota
-342. ;
M. Roland ha 1 ; fled to Lyons ; Briffotwas
to join liim when he was arjefted. '
Civil 'Sta\ of Paris.
Divorces') Marriages 28 Born 68 Died 56
,8 7 2 9 <>' \
19 7 2 4 65 oil
Seven hundred and eighty-five millions of
aflignats bad been burnt Jime 22 ; tlnrty
tbree millioiis more were ready to be defiroy
ed. Collot D'Herbois was Prefideiit the
Convention the 23th June.
The places' of public amusement which
were open in Paris the 28th June were ten
theatres—an amphitheatre, and two other
public exhibitions. * '
The Spaniards have two Generals who are
not without merit, viz. Don Rtcardos, com
mander in chief of the army of Catalonia
and Don Vinlura Coro, who commands the ar
my of Navarre.
' They write from Perpignan that the brave
garrison of Bellegarde hold out yet, notwith
standing a contiuual bombardment— they tear
a famine —if they can get ill provisions, the
fortrefs will be saved—and efforts are daily
made to get forward the convoys; but the
vigilance of the Spaniards is incessant.
The garrison of the fort' da Jlatn*, has been
on fliort allowance 56 days ; it was not till
the 57th that it Airrend'ertd, after having
been 48 hours without eating.
Thd Spaniards have taken Fourqves three
lea" ues si 0111 Perpignan ; they have re (Sored
the ancient police in all its forms.
M E"alite in a letter to the National Con
ventioii'of the 2d June, fa.vs that the moment
he had Battered himfelf with a favorable
cifion on his'ca'e, at that moment he found
h.m<elf more cloiely confined.—He was tranf
ferred to the fort St Jean the 27th
very culd pril'on, without rece.vmg comnm
nications from any one—and without any at
tendait* for himfelf or his son j his domett
had been driven away although.they had pafT
corts from the committee of the pub/c fate -
tv and he was not permitted itther to fee or
(peak to th-m ; he prays that the Oonven
tiun would jutlgc h m to h, merits
and attachment to t e cause of the
through the Revolution. He for a
, we dv deciiion— and if their decree fliou.d
liot give him entire liberty, he a(ks perm, Won
to cpHverie with fuoh t»erfon» a* he si.all de
527
fire, o<H to belhat rip to. that, prtfon., that he
i*i a y be iyt iiliai ty to u-a.lk, and take the air,
vtvi'cfc iiefays is alifuUirelj- necclfary to his
now greatly ll'jtirtd by Ins c!ill' cis ol
and mind. , -
This Jetter wai rtieired to tine committee
(V Astety.,
A vessel arrived here yesterday from Gibral
tar, the Capt. of which fays that he was in
formed by the officers of the garrison there
that the combined fleet conlilting of fifty-two
Jail of the line wefe to ' attack. Toulon*
"Yesterday arrived 'here from Bengal a
Frfe'icb ship called La V«lle <k JL'Oneut.
Capt. Malm.
| Yesterday a number of French lailors (a
---| Ane hundred) lately belonging to the flhip
! ' JupS'ter, now in New-York, arrived in this
I tjj>y lt iiuder<the care °f ** party of militia.
I Geteral Galbaud, it is said in a
has been re-taken, near Weft Chester,
by a party sent in purluit of him.
fcip ©obd Intent, of Bristol, mounting
i« arrived ?t New Ymk, a prize to
tfc JilMfellles of 22 guns.. She was taken
afjer'an fcftinate engagement, and the-lofs
°C fcaptain and 8 men killed and so
vkuHUe " ■ '
Fiom New-York we learn, that Citizen
Qwpet, owirij* to Hie diftuvbances on board the
! Jupiter, bid iflued. a proclamation, ordering
t her crew, with a few exceptions, to leave the
$jid repair tp quartei sprovidedfor them
on snore. many did.
An attempt was made on the life of Admiral
Cftmbi* (tiot of Citizen Genet as has been re
ported) in,'which he was wounded in the hand.
The attempt made by some of the crew
of .the Jup itpr a few of which number have
been apprehended.
General Galbaud escaped from
tfifcTupi+er on Friday la!ft, and tooltTre -rout
Weit-Chdfter, escorted by a few of the crew
vf the Jupiter.
? ■ : r
<j[t -Vas currently reported that Captain
Bompard 4s to be appointed commando of tile
Jupiter.
Three hundred paflengers are arrived in
the Ann from Londonderry. There is ano
ther p»(Tenger fliip, we underltand in the river.
We hear that the Britilh (hip £)usen of 98
guns, the Orion and another 74, with three
frigates and a Hoop of war, are cruizing off
the Delaware 4nd Chesapeake bays—and that,
belides the privateer Sans Culottes, the Orion
has taken the industry, a Freuch privateer
fitted out at Baltimore.
The French frigate Adrea, oC 44 guns,
is arrived at Annapolis.
Letters received in this city From Mr.
Wignell, via New-York, ship Amller
ijrnti Packet, dated London, July 6, inform,
that Ire was to fail in the George Barclay,
1 ©apt. Collet, positively on or before the 15th,
with the whole of the company of comedians,
number of musicians, engaged for the
ness theartre in Chcfnut-ftreet- The accom
modations for pafTengers in the George Bar
c,layrare entirely taken up by Mr. Wignell.
*
J"he;public are informed in Mr. Dunlap's
paper of Saturday last, that those members of
the French National Convention " who were
were treated so at their own re
quest." A correspondent fays that after fnch
an assertion, it will be with a very ill grace
on the part of fame persons that the Englilh
paragraphifti shall iii future be called juarS.
It is.presumed the following article will
(hew how much justice there is' in the above
recited aflertion :
Hat'onal Contention, June 4- Vateze One
of the Deputies ill k cuftody, complained in a
Jitter of having been put under ai reft with
out a previous hearing ; he added that being
father of a family, and in embarrafled cir
cumstances, he flood highly in need of the ar-
Mkars dite to himfince thelaft month. Order
ofKhfe day.
q The address of the arretted raeir.be'-s of
»h6- National Convention to the people oi
France, contains a develop ment of the nioft
: eitriordinar'y tranfaftion that has taken
place since the commencement of the revolu
tion—and ftiould if be eventually produflive
o^favorable confeque-nces to liberty and a
free government, it involves a total subver
sion ofali the principles on which free legisla
tion bits heretofo. j been supposed to depend
llfr it's exiftetice.
fmpartant Commercial Communication.
'Jf a meeting of.tie Committee of Mercian's oj Phi
'I Jaddkhit,—i: was refohed, that a letter Jrm
' Tlioinas Jeffer/on, tff. Secretary tf State, an,
' ' the arfu.tr-thereto, Jhould be publijked in thi.
' city- ' , . *
•Extra# from the minutes,
Robirt Ralston, Sec'ry.
1 , Philadelphia, AuguJl 27,1793.
dSNTLEJtiN,
Complaint having been made to the govern,
ment Vvf the United States, of some mftanee
of'uuj'nftifiaWe venation and spoliation com.
- m ttklnivour merchant vessels by the priva-
I te«r»pfitlje powers at war, and it being pof.
fib'e t:»Rt other instances may have happened,
ofxTWcl no information has been given to the
government, I have it in charge from the
. J>refideirt to assure the merchant* of the Uni
ted States, concerned in foreign commerce
or navigation, that due attention will be paid
to any injuries they may fuffer 011 the high
Teas, or in foreign countries contrary to the
law of narionj or to e*ifhng treaties ; and
that on their forwarding hither well authen
ticated evidence of the feme, proper proceed
ings Will 1>« adopted fee their relief: The
jufVflrrd friendly - clifptiit ions of several
belligerent powers, afford well founded expec
tatinthat they will uyt hefitfcte to take ef
mea urfs for refi raip»n!» their armed
veflcls from committing iiggicffions and vex
ations on our citizens or tlfcir property.
There being :m particular' portion or de
(cription of the mercantile body pointed out
by the laws for receiving coinmunications'of
this nature, I take the liberty ofaddreffing it
to the merchants of Philadelphia, for the lute
of Pennrylvahia,-and ofrequefting that thro'
them it may be made k'nowu to all those of
their state wham it may concern. Inforina«
tion wi l.lie freely received, either from trie
individuals aggiieved, or from any aifocla*
tion» of merchants, who will 6e pickled to take
the trouble of giving it, in a caljUo interelt
ing to themselves and^tielr^HHJj.
I have the honor to be witli J (Jj|e|t •
Your mod obedient servant,
TH. JEFFERSON.
r hc Merchants of Philadelphia.
The merchants of Philadelphia receive yoiilT
communicat or), as one proof among the many
of the attention of government to the com
merce of the United States, which involves
in \t every other important inccreft of our
country.
They wilt avail thetrilsive* of the ins itatiofn
given, to convey all fiich information as tbey
may obtain, refpefting rlie vexation and ipoit
committed by the privateers of the powers at
war, upon the fading vfffefs of America )
and they doubt ftot upon representation .being
made, those powers will (hew the belt difpofi*
tion to rfeftrain Jjggreflions, which, being est.
ercifeif ajainft k people, who.in maintaining
a 4 rift hjU- have manifeftcd a frien4*
-<Hip for anil which ought to excmpt them
depredations,,
faiuwith perfect eftflerilt
By 01 dec/of the 'onmmitree, and in
' bdiialf of the merchants of the city
of Philadelphia,
JOHN NIXON.
7*4 Thomai Jejfcrfon, £fj. )
Stcretary uj State. )
The fliip Alice, Capr. Harvey, arrived at
New-York from London, Monday laii* we
hear (he has brought London papers to the
25th July.—We have Jeen one of the 15th
which contains an account of the furreuder
of Conde to the combined forces on the loth \
the garrifom had corfilted of 4000 men—lsoo
only were found fit for duty who were nude
prisoners of war—23oo were sick in the hoH.
pitals. Genet a! Cuftine tatd been at Paris the
last of June as stated in our lait—*—he had set
out for the army—.j/nevious to which he had
informed the Executive Council that the ar
my deitioed to ast again ft the Prince Saxe
Cobourg must be encreaied till it amounts to
120,000 men—in addition to which he re
quired another army of 60,000 to make inctir
fions into the enemy's country—with this
force be promises never to return except he
is victorious. The sieges of Valenciennes
and Mentz were going on—The French ma
king forties daily. No account appears in
this paper of the defeat of the Royalists near
Nantes on the 28th of June, as related by
Capt. Makins from L'Orient.
Lord Hiwe, with the Uft division of the
channel fl*et, had failed from Spithead—and
was to be joined by tfie Ruffian fleet of. fri
gates and transports, having 011 board 12,o?o
troops—A defcertt on the Coast of Britanny
is confidently dated to be their object in the
BritilH papers.—lt appears there hat
been perpetual fighting between the French
and Sardinians—-the accounts are from Tu
rin—thel'e {fate that the former loft 4000 men
in one action.—The P ruffians have made
themselves masters of Weiffenau, near Mentz,
after a lharp contest.—A bomb thrown from
Valenciennes felt aftiong a number of those
of the beflegers, and caused an explosion of
forty of them.
Lately died at Hudson, State of New-York,
Seth Jenkins, E'q. a gentleman highly and
deservedly revered for his pjiblic and private
virtues.
£T" The Anecdote" doty not appear to be
fujficiently ivtirtfling.
'• He l v 1 ni iis" was not received in JtaJon for
this day,'s paper—No. 3. in vur next.
Augiift 3°, 1 79.1
ARRIVED at the PORT**/ PHILADELPHIA.
Sh p Ann, Stephenfon, Londonderry
fli\g Harmony, Dunphy, Port-?u Pi :nco
Whipple, S Croix
Schr. Happy Return, M'Donald, N. Carolina
Katy, Stephenfong Martinique
Betsey, Eaile, It more
George, Bu>r, Sc. EulLniua
John, Hall, do.
William, Connelly, Virginia
Freedom, Tullai, do.
Franklin, Talinan, Current
Peggy, Skrjly, Charlfft »a
Sloop Friend ftiip, Brady, Virginia
Surprize, Berinet, do.
Fanny, Brent, do.
Bnfey, Hopkins, Cape-Francoit
Sallvi Simons, Gouaive
The hurricane season set in at St.
and St Ktns, on Monday the nth of
lait month, and continued u«itil li ne tin* ne*t
morning with unabated and violent lury. Five
veflVl* went on ftiore at S . Foftatiu , and 15 at,
St. Kuu, mostly Aim rieans ,
Sir,
To Correspondents.
SHIP NEWS.
Betsey, Taylor,
Prifc of Stcckt ts ib our Ltjl.
'.•fiwft,I I - bits. Cti. Dili A is
PRICE C U R R E * T. ,t £
»«* IiUANTiT*DoI LA*» too Cenu cach. Ditto balkcts, 12 bottles 5
Spermaceti pr. gall. 48
PHILADELPHIA, Sipr. 4- Trail, «4 2 7
Whaie »5 3.j
ADlh.Cts. Dili. Cti. Porter pr. cask, 5 33
VCHORS pr.lb. 7 >° London, pr.doz. 1 6c
Allum, Englilh, pr.cwt. 4 33 American ditto bot.incl. 1 81
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 11 Pitch, pr. bbl. > 73 2
Alhes, pot, perton, Pork, Burlington, per b»rrel, 1-7
Pearl, 134 140 7 —Lower county 15
Arrack pr. gall. 1 33 1 16 ——Carolina ft
Brandy, common, 80 85 I*cas, Albany pr. buthel I
Comae 9° 1,0 Pepper, pr. lb. 3!
Braziletto,pt. ton. 4° Piment6
Bricks, pr. M. 4 7 Raisins, best, pr. keg
Bread, (hip, pr.cwt. 2 33 Diuo pr.jar 3 3;
Ditto, pilot 4 Ditto pr. box 33,
Ditto, ("mail water, per keg 30 4° R lce pr . C wt. 34,
Beer, American,, in bottles, Roflß pr . barlc i a 7i
pr.doz. battles included, 174 R un i, Jamaica, pr. gallon >il
Ditto pr. barrel, 6 Antigua 1
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 20 Windwfrd 81
"* New England 10 14 Barbadoes 8
° ak< *4 ,6 Country, N.E. 6:
• Merchantable pine 20 24
Sap, do. IO 67 Saltpetre, pr.cwt. 1433
Mahogany, per foot 1C Saffafras pr. ton 6 8
The above arc the (ballop prices, c ! #■. ditto 140 141
for the yard price, add 1 dol- tec ' jj r
Jar 33 cents per 1000. English.blistered, pr. cwt. 10
_ . c American pr; ton 213 3
Brimstone in rolls, pr.cwt. 267 Crowley's pr. faggot - >0 6
Beef, Boston, pei barrel 13 Snake root pr. lb. to 4
Country ditto 9 10 ' Soap, Brown perib. '
Frc(h, per cwt. 333 467 White f
Butler pr. lb. 20 e 1
1" keg. .12 IS starch
Candles, Sperm, pr. lb. 5° Snuff pr. doz. bot. • 4 j 6
Soermaceti, refined, pr. lb. 4
Myrtle Wax 18 . r
Mould, tallow 16 s a'lcloth,Engli(h,No.i,pr. yard, 4'
Dipped ' 14 Boston, No. I. ditto 3'
Cheese, Englilh, pr. lb. 20 No- IL . 3.
Country 8 13 Su 6 ar Lump, pr.lb 2
Chocolate 18 20 Loaf,(ingle refined 2:
Cinnamon 840 267 Ditto, double do. 3
ni rtv « c 1 09 Havannah, white 14 i 1
Cocoa pr. cwt. • ,o i. 8 " —Ditto, brown, i 0;
Coffee pr.lb. 14 Mu(covado, or. cwt. 9 12
Coal pr. buthel 24 33 SpiritsTurpentinepr.gallon f
Copperas pr.cwt. , 67 >»it, Allum pr. bulhel . , J,
Cordage, American, per cwt. 7 9 Liverpool 3,
Cotton pr.lb. 27 37 Cadiz f
Currants 12 ~ L'fbon
JJuck.Rulia, pr. piece 14 15 Shpbuild. W. O. frames p.ton, 20
Ravens Diito Live Oak, 22
Dutch'fail duck, 18 20 Ditto red tfedar, per foot 37 4
Feathers pr.lb. 48 Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 333 3 £
Flax ditto 11 >2 D,no 2lect > 6 5° 6
Flaxfeed pr. bulh. 9& 0 Ditto 3 feet, drefTed, 13 15
Flour. Superfine pr.barrel 6 33 Staves, P,pe pr. 1000 32
Common, 6 White Oak hoglhead, 20 3
3ur middlings, best 5 Oak 1 % 5
Meal, Indian s 5' Leogan 21 3
t ditto Rve, 240 Barrel ,6
-Ship-Ruff pr.cwt. t 40 1 67 ~" He ® d ' n s . 2 5 9
Fustic pr. ton, 20 Skins, Otter, beft-pr. piece 46
r eft -Minks 20 4
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 46 Fox, grey 40 8
Do. pr. gall, So 9° D , no rcd t 8
Glue, pr. cwt. «o 11 33 Martins ,
Ginger, white race, per lb. 7 Fi(h er , 3 '» 6
Ditto, common 7 Bears o
Ditto, ground pr.lb. 10 RacooM 2J 3 6
Ginleng, 20 24 Mulk-rati 11 * 2
Gunpowder, cannon v pr. q.cafk, 373 4 Beaver, pr. lb. 67 13
Ditto fine glazed 4 D eer, in hair 20 3
Grain, Wheat pr. bulh 100 120 *
Rye 60 TJar,N.Jerfey,s4gal.p. bbl. J
Oats 35 Carolina, 32 gall. t
Indian corn 53 Turpentine p.. bbl ,«
Barley t * 3 Tobacco, J. River, belt lOOlb. ,43
Best (Belled pr. lb. 7 inferior 3 3
Buckwheat, per bush. 4c old 4 6
u 1 ■ Rappahannock o q
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 160- '5° Coloured Maryland, 533 8
American, pr. lb . 4 S Dark, g 4
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 Long-leaf t 4
Hides, r*w pr.lb, 9 Eastern-shore 1 2 *
f; O P* j. w ° Carolina,new 1 7 3
Hoglhead hoops, pr. M. 15 —j o]dj '
Indigo, French per lb. i 67 Tea, Hyson pr. lb. 33 1 2
Carolina t 1 feo Hyson (kin, 33 6
Irons, fad pr. ton, 133 33 Souchong, g
Iron, Castings pr. cwt. 3 4 Congo, 43
Bar pr. ton, 84 -Bohea, 23 3
fig 24 Tallow, refined, per lb.
Sheet 173 33 Tin pr. box, *3 33 *3 6
—7^ Nail rods 101 33 Vetdigreafe pr.lb. 6
Junk, pr. cwt. 4 5 Vermillion, do. 1 16
Lard, hogs, pr.lb. 9 10 Var ni(h, pergallon fg 3
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 533 j6) r 6 J
in bar» , 7 Wax, Bees pr.lb. 25 2
white to 'to 67 Whale-bone,long pf.lb. 13 £
— I —red 640 6 6 Wine, Madeira,pr. pipe, 176 226
Leather,foal, pr.lb. 5 17 20 Lilbon 120 126
Lignum vitE pr.ton, 5 60 6 Teneriffe,pr. gallon t
Logwood 30 Fayal
Mace pr.lb. 9 Port pr. pipe 113 33
Mackarel, best .pr. bbl, 9 —Ditto in bottles, pr.doz. 4
— second quality 4 Claret . 4 6
Madder, best pr. lb. 16 2c Sherry pr.gall. go 12
Marble, wrought, pi-, foot, t 33 2 67 Malaga 77 i
Mall spars ditto 33
MolatTes pr.gall. 33 41
Mustard per. lb. 8; COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
—flour, m bottles,* pr.doz. l 2c
Nails, &d. loi.izi. and iod. pr.lb. ,0 London ' 3° days, per £ ..00 fieri. 4 &6 (
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 8 3t 5° da y s 3
6 r ' at 90 day* 460 6
Oil, Linseed, pr. gall. 6f Amsterdam, 60 days, pr. 42
■Olive 87 90 days,
I
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York. < s
THKSubfcriber intending to confinfe himfeif
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, begs leave to of
fer his Services to hisfriendsand others, in the
line ofa Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
Upon having it t ran failed with the utmost fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will be ftriftly
attended to.
LEONARD BLEECKER.
War Department^
Aug* ft i ft, r 793 .
INFORMATION is hereby given to all thd
Military Invalid* of the United States, that!
the Turns to which they are intitledfor fix months
of their annual prnlion, from the 4th day of
March la ft, and which will become due on ihs
sth ot September next, will be paid on the said
day by the Commissioners ot the Loans, with
in the States refpeftively under the usual regu
lations.
By Command of the
President of ihc United States.
H. K N 0 X, Secretary at War•
528
Treasury Department - ,
At/gust 27, 1793-
NOTICE Uhereby gi<that propola.s will
be received until the 15'h day of October
next, uielufively, by David Henly at Knoxville,
in the Territory South Weft of the Ohio, for the
supply of alj rations which may be required for
the use of the United States, from the fr ft day of
January to the thirty-fiift day of December,
1794, both days inclusive, at the places, and
within the diftri&s hereafter mentioned, viz.
j. At any place or places from the rhouth of
the River Teneflee to Occorhappo or Bear
Creek, on the said River inclusively.
8. At any place or places from the mouth of
th< river Cumberland to Nafhvifle, on the said
river, and at Nashville.
3. As any place or places within thirty miles
of said Nashville to the southward, westward
or northward thereof.
4. At Bledfoe's Lick, or anv place or places
between the said Lick and Nashville.
5. At any place or places from Bledfoe's Lick
the eroding of Cumberland river, along the
new Trace, at or near the great Salt Lick, and at
the said croiling place over Cumberland river.
6. At any place or place? along the said trace,
from'the drolling of Cum berland river to the
mouth of Clinch river, and at the said mouth of
Clinch river.
7. At any place or places between the said
month of Cinch and Knoxville, and at Knox
ville.
8. At any place or places oh the north-weft
ertt frontiers of Washington and Hamilton dif
tr.£bs, in the Territory South of the Ohio, from
ihi mouth of Clinch to the Virginia line.
9. At any place or places on the foutKern
frontiers of the said diftn&s ot Washington and
Hamilton.
• 10. At any other place or places in the terri
tory South of the Ohio, not herein mentioned.
The rations to be tupplied are to confill of the
fallowing articles, viz.
One pound of bread-or flour.
One pound of beef, or £ of a pound of pork
Half a jill of brandy, rum or wbifky,
One quart of fait
Two quarts of ioQ ration?
Two pounds oi loap ( r
On - pound of candles)
—• ' ... . r
The rations are to be furnilhed in fucb quan
tities, as that there shall at all times, dunng the
said term, be fufficient for ihe confumpnon ol
she troops at each fort or other stationary post,
which is or may be established for the foace ol
at least three months in advance, in good and
wholtfome provisions, if the fame (ball be re
quired.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all
JoflVs Curtained by the depredations of the ene
mies, or by mean*of the troops of the United
States, shall be paid for at the prices of the ar
tieles captured or deftroved, on the depofi ioris
of two or more crediiabie characters, and th:
certificate of a commiflioned olficer, a (certain ng
the circumstances of the loss, and the amount of
the articles for which compenfauon is claimed.
Those who may become pmpofers are re
qu fted to transmit without delay to the Secre
tary of the Treasury duplicates o! their propofah.
The proposals will be decided upon at Kriox
ville a fore fa id, where the said David Henlv W'll
make known the offer which is accepted, and
wiH conclude the eontra£t.
Treaiury Department,
Auguji io, 1793.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propafals
will be received at the Office of the Se
cretary of the Treafurv, until the 14th day
of September next inclufivelv, to furnifli by
contrast the following articles of" Cloathing,
for the use of the United States, viz.
4,800 Hats,
5,120 Stocks,
5,120 Stock-Clasps,
20,480 Shirts,
5,120 Veils,
5,120 Coats,
91,600 Woollen Overalls,
9,600 Linen ditto,
19,200 pairs of Shoes,
9,600 pairs of Socks,
• 5,120 Blankets,
320 Caps,
320 pairs of Leather Breeches,
640 pairs of Boots,
320 pairs of Spurs,
640 pairs of Stockings,
1,520 Rifle Shirts.
The cloathing to be delivered at the city
of Philadelphia ; one fourth part of the whole
number of suits on or before the 15th of Fe
bruary, one fourth on or before the 15th of
April, and the remaining half 011 or before
the I Jth of June, 1794.
The articlesmuft be agreeably to such pat
terns as fha.ll be dire<sted by the Secretary for
the Department of War. Payment will be
made as soon as the whole of the articles fliall
hav& been delivered. ept!4S.
City of Washington.
January 71*1, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lois in this Cuy will be of
fered for sale at auft'on, by the Commit
fioners, on the 17th day of September next.-4-
One fourth part of the ptuchafe money is to be
paid down, the refidueat three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interefton the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, CUrkto the Cim'rj.
Extra& of an Ast of the General Afjetflbly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City oi Washington. ,
" Be it enaftcd, That an\ foreigner may by
dsed or will, hereafter to he made, take and hold lands
withrn that part of the jaid Territory which lies with
in this State % in the fine manner as if he was a citi
zen of thts State \ and the fame lands max .be con
veyed uy him, and transmitted to and be. inherited b\
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
of tkii State : Prpvided, That r\o foreigner \fhalt,
in virtue hereof be entitled to any further or other
brivilege of a citizen."
tf
Jan. 19.
Seat of VVak.
For Sale, at M. CARKY's Star:,
No. 118, M,aiket-ftieet,
A Sheet Map of the
French, Austrian and Dutch Netherlands, in
which the progress of the pre foot War may
be traced.' ■ Price three eighths qJ a dollar.
And a Map of the Three Northern Diftrtfts
of France, divided into Departments.
Pt ice \ of a dollar.
Maps of the United
States : —Any public spirited gentlenien, po£
fefled of materials for correiTwg and improv
ing the Maps of the several State*, will Jay
M. Carev under very particular obligationi, *
by comraiinicating them. He is in immi-diats
want of fmne for New-Je'ley and Delaware ;
of w lich States he is now preparing Maps.
Guthrie's Geography:
The fubfeription for this woi k will be con- 1
tinned open, at the present rate of twelve
dollars, till the firfl day of November next J
after which, it will be railed to fourteen dol
lars.
Augufi 14.
District of Pennsylvania,./# wit.
R E IT REMEM . iiKßrD ' that cn
( LS )X3 he thirteenth dayVf August, in
'/ the eighteenth ve«ir of the Indepen
d nee of the United State; of America,
THOMAS DOBSOM, of the sard Di(bi£U hai/i
depofitcd in thij. Office the Title of a Book, the
Right whereof he claims as Proprietor, in the
words following—to wit :
" 7RA NSACTIONS OF
" Psysigi ANS OF Phi 1,4
" Part I.——Nonjibijti
the United States, inujuhd, '• An A& ior the
Encouragement of -, \ v fecunng me
Copies of Maps, Charts and B < ks, to the Au
thors and Pioprietors of such Cppies, during
the times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of (he
Difirid of Pe/iyfyfvania.
By THOMAS JOHN.iON, DAVID
STUART,& DAN ItL CARROLL,
EfjuirtSy
Commissioners appointed by Government to
prepare the Public Buildm s, See. within the
Ci'y of Wajhington, lor ibe reception of Con
gress, and for their permanent icfidence aftCT
the yearißoo—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
<0,000 Tickots 9t 7 dollart. arc 3jo,oqp iiu!l>ri.
Tier nn 14 cr
LIST OF PRIZES. Viz
i Superb Hotel, with baths.) _ ,
out houses, &c.&c. to cost J °
i Ca(h Prize 25. coo
1 dif to 80,^00
i ilittO 15.C00
1 ditto 10,000
2 d'irto 5.000 are 10,000
io ditto 1,000 10,000
20 ditto 50*0 10,000
100 ditto 100 1,0,000
goo,ditto 50 10,000
400 ditto 25 10,000
1,000 dtqo 20 20,cc0
15,000 ditto 10 150,000
16,737
33,263 Blanks
50,000
By this scheme at Icajt the amount of 1 he tick*
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City will gain its obje6i thereby,
in a magnificentbuitdingdefigned both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although some expence must neceflarily at
tend the conducing of the lottery, (which ex
pence will be taken from the principal prize)the
Commiflioneis having agreed to present in re
turn a fufficient quaniity of excellent free-ftone,
together with the best adapted lots for the hotel
and for the out-boufes, the value of the lottery
entire may be fa riy rated at -femetking m*re than
par: lit this important in (lance it will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other count?y. ' The keys of the
Hotel, when rompleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate po(f ITir of the ticket drawn aagainfk
its number.—All the other prizes will be paid,
without dcduflion y in one rnonthafter the diawing, by
the City Treasurer at Wafhitigton, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for theconvenicncy of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
6th of September next, at the City of Washing
ton.
Tickets m?y be had of Col. IVm. Dtckcni, City
Treafurrr of Wafliington ; Tha er & Bart'e!, of
Chariefton, South-Carolina; Gideon Denijon, Sa
vannah ; Messrs. James H'c fl & Co. Baltimore;
Mr. Peter Gi/man, Boston; and at such other
places as will be herealter puhlifhed.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for 'he bed P'an of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Batlu, Scabies, and other out houses, if prefcnted
on or btjore the toth ej April next; and a pre
ference Will be given to the Ariift for a* Con
trad, provided he be duly qualified to
com pleat hii plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be ere&ed, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the ftablet, See. Sections and
efttmates of the expense will be expe£ted
with the elevations, &c. compleat ; and 50,00 O
dollars mud be regarded bv The Archite£t as the
utmost limit in the expmfe inr ndrd tor this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the City
March, 61703.
TIC K E T S
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTE'RY,
M<*y be had at SAMUEL COOPER'# Ferry.
I St
Dollars 350,000