&tiz&U 0 fUttiuhcPM?
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS JOHN FENNO, No. 34 , NORTH FJFTH.STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 12 r of Vol. IV..]
FOR THE GAZETTE.
No. VTI.
' I "'HE remaining obje&ion to the Proclama-
JL tion of neutrality, fuiil to be discussed, is
*hit it wai out of trtnc and unnecefiary.
To givee«lmir to this objeflion it is ?fkt'd—
why did n<»t the Proclamation appear when the
war comrostrict<i with Auftriaand t'ruffia f why
w»6 it forborne, tiUGre*'. Britain, Holland and
Spain became engaged ? why did not the go
vernment wait til! the arrival at Philadelphia
i>f the Minjfter of the Frenth Republic ? why
did it volunteer a declaration rot required of it
by any «f the b=llig-rent parties ?
'iy> moil of these questions falid an Avers have
already appeared in the public prints. Little
more can be done than to repeat & enforce them.
Austria a;;d Prufliaare not maritime powers.
Contraventions of neutrality as again II them
were not likely to take place to any extent, or
in a shape that would attra& their notice. It
woild therefore have been "useless, if not ridicu
lous, to have made a formal declaration on tfye
fubjeel, while they were the only parties oppo
sed to France.
But the reverse of this is the cafe with regard
to Spain, Holland and' England. These are ail
commercial maritime nations. It was to be cx
pe&ed, that their 'attention would b« immedi
ately drawn towards the United States, with sen
sibility and even with jealousy. It was to be
feared, that some of our citizcns might be
tempted by the profpeit of gain to go into
measures, which would injure them and coni
,mit the peace of the country. Attacks by some
of these powers upon the poflefiions of France
ju America were to be looked for as a matter of
.course. While the views of the United State*
as to that particular, were problematical, they
would naturally consider us as a power that
might become their enemy. This they would
have been the more apt to do, on account ©f
'thofe - public demenilrations of attachment to
the cause of France, of which there has been so
great a display. Jealousy, every body knows,
Specially if ftiarpened by resentment, is apt to
lead to ill treatment ; ill treatment to hoftil r .
In proportion to the probability of our being
regarded with-a fui'picious and cOnsequently an
unfriendly eye, by the powers at war with
-.Fiance ; in proportion to the danger of inapru
&o*K.teA being committed by any of our citizens,
which might occaiion a rupture with them—
the policy on the pare o the government, of
removing all doubt, as to its own difpofiiion,
of deciding the condition of the United
States, in tjie view of the parties concerned, be
came obvious and urgent.
Were the United States now what, if we do
lot raftily throw aw-ty the advantages we pof
fefH» they may expe& to hi in fifteen or twen
ty years; there would have been more room for
fn insinuation which hag been thrown out—
namely, that they to have feairod to
themselves some advantage, as the cotifiderkci- i
on of their neutrality y an idea however of which
the juilice and magnanimity cannot be com
mended. But in their present situation, with
their present (Irength and relources, an attempt
of that kind tould htive ohly served to display
pretentions at once excdFive and unprincipled. }
The chance of obtaining any collateral advan
tage, if itkh a chance there was, by leaving'a
doubt upon our intentions, as to. peace or war,
could not wifely have been put for.a single in
stant in competition wirh the tendency of a con
trary coiuludt to secure our peace.
T'ie conducivenefs of the declaration of neu
trality to that end was not the only recommend
ation to the adoption of the mcaiure. It was of
Yg'reM importance that our own citizens fliould
uiid>:rftand, as' soon as poflible, the opinion
■fohkb the government entertained of the na
ture of our relations to the warring parties and
of the propriety or exptdiency of our taking a
tide or remaining neliter. The arrangements
•of our merchants could not but be very different
ly afte&ad, by the one hypothetic, or the other ;
and it would neceflarily have been very de
trimental and perplexing to them to have been
left in unceitainty. It is not requisite to fay
how much our agriculture an-J other intereflt
would have been likely to have buffered, by erti
barrafcmenta to our merchants.
The idea of its having been incumbent on the
tgovernment to delay the measure for the com
ing of the Minister of the French Republic, is
as absurd as it is humiliating. Did the ex
ecutive stand in need of tht logic of a foreign a
gent to enlighten it as to the duties or interests
of the nation ? or was it baand toaflc his con
tent to a'ftep which appealed to itfelf confident
with the former and conducive to the latter ?
The i'enfc bf our treaties was to be learnt from
tfoe-trcitiesthemfelves. It was not difficult to
proßour.te before hand,' that we had a greater
interest in fhc preiervation of peace, than in a
-11 y advantages with which France might tempt
oar participation in the war. Commercial pr:-
vikges were all that (he could offer of reai
value in our estimation, and a mrte blanche on
thread would have been an inadequate recom
pence lor renouncing peace and committing
to the chances of so preca
rious and perilous a war. Besides, if the privi
leges which might have been caupetitd were pot
Saturday* July 27, 1793-
founded in a real permanent mutual inter <:(l—
of whit value would be the tj ez\y tfeat ftlould
concede them ? not th. ralciihrinn,
such cafe, to be npr>b a speedy refußiptirati A>! ■
them, with perhaps a quarrel as the preKxt ?
on the other hand may we not trull,' th-attoai
mercial privileges, which are truly founded in
mutual inUretf will grow out of that irtterrft ;
without the nectffity ul giving a premium lor
them at the expence ol our peace ?
To what putpofe then was the executive to
have waited for the arrival of the miniftcr !
was it to give opportunity to contention* discus
fions—to intriguing machinations—to die cla
mor* of a faction vDaa to a foreign intcreft ?
Whether the declaration of neutrality iflued
upon or without the requisition of any of the
belligerent po.wcrs, can only be known to their
rcfpe&ive ministers and to the proper offi
cers of our government. But if it be *ue that
it iflued without any such requiiition, it is an
additional indication of the wildom of the mea
sure.
It is of much importance to the end of preserv
ing peace, that the belligerent powers (houid
be thoroughly convinced of the finceri-ty of our
intentions to observe the neutrality we profefs ;
and it cannot fail to have weight in producing
this conviction that the declaration of it was'a
spontaneous adl— not stimulated by any requisi
tion cn the part of either of them—-proceeding
purely from our own view of our duty and iu
tereft.
It was not surely neceflary for the govern
ment to wait forfuch a requisition; while there
were advantages and no disadvantage* in antid-j
pating it. The benefit of an early notification
to our merchants, conspired with the considera
tion just mentioned, to recommend the course
which was pursued.
If in addition to the reft, the early manifefta
tion of the views of the government has had a
ny effedt in fixing the public opinion on the fub
jc&, and in counteracting the success of the ef
fort- which it was to be forefeen would be made
to disunite it, this alone wojild be a great re
commendation of the policy of having fuffered
no delay to intervene.
What has been already fa id in this and in pre
ceding papers affords a full answer to the sug
gestion, that the Proclamation-was unnecefiary.
It would .be a wade of time to add asy tiling
more.
But there has been a critrcifm several times
repeated, whicamay deserve a moment's atten
tion. It has been urged, that the Proclamation
ought to have contained some reference to our
treaties, and that the generally of the promise
to observe a conduct "friendly and impartial to
wa ds the belligerent powers oughc to have
been qualified with exprefltons equivalent to
these—" as far as may conjjjl ivitb the treaties of
the United States**
The infrrtion 6f such a clause would hare in
tirely defeated the objedt of the Proclamation,
by rendnring the intention of the government e
q./ivo«al. That objedl wasto assure the powers
at war and our own citizens, that in the opinion
of the executive it was confident with the duty
and interest of the nation to observe a neutrali
ty in the war, and that it was intended to pur
ine a condudl co responding with that opinion.
Words equivalent to those contended for would
.have rendered the other part of the declaration
nugatory ; by leaving it uncertain •whether tin
executive did or did not believe a JlateoJ neutrality to
be conjtjlent ■with our treaties. Neither foreign
powers nor our own citizens would have been a
ble to have drawn any conclusion from the
Proclamation, and both would have had a right
to consider ic as a mere equivocation.
By not inserting any such ambiguous sxpref
liqns, the Proclamation was fufceptjble of an
intelligible and proper conftrudion. While it
denoted on the on*; hand, that in the judgment
of the executive, there was nothing in our trea
ties obliging us to become in the xvdr, it
> left it to be utpe&cd on the other—that all sti
pulations compatible with neutrality* according
to the laws and usages of nations, would be en
forced. It follows, that the Proclamation was
in this particular exaiSly what it ought to have
been.
The words " make known the disposition of
the United' States" have also given a handle to
cavil. • It has been a Iked how could the Presi
dent undertake to declare che disposition of the
United States. The people for aught he knew
may have been in a very differenc sentiment .
Thus* a conformity with republican propriety
and modesty is turned into a topic of accusation.
Had the President announced his own dispo
sition, he would have been chargeable with egot
ism if not presumption The constitutional or
gan of ihte*ct>urfe between the United Stktes
and foreign nations whenever he (peaks to
them, it is in that capacity ; it is in the name
and on behalf of the United States, it mull
therefore be with greater propriety, that he
(peaks of their disposition than o( his own.
It is easy to imagine, that occasions frequent
ly occur in the communications to foreign go
vernments and foreign agents, which render it
necessary to speak of the friendihip or friendly
disposition of the United States,of their difpofit'wn
to cultivate harmony and good undemanding,
- 481-
to reciprocate neighbourly offices, ice. &c. It
i= usual for example when public mini iters are
for . i.wry erpreffio»» t«
be interchanged. It is presumable, that the late
toception of the French miniftcr did not pas»,
tvithovt some afiurance on the part of the Prefi
' dent of the friendly disposition of the United
StaUs towards France. Admitting it to have
happened, would it be deemed a* improper ar
rogation ? if not, why was it more so, to declare
the difpefition of the United States to observe
a neutrality in theexilling war ?
In all such cases nothing more is to he under
ilood than an official expreflion of the political
djfpotiftnof the nation inferred front rt* politi
cal relations, obligations and intetefts. It is
never to be supposed that the expreflion is meant'
to convey the precifit ilate of the individual fen*
timents or opinions of the great mafc of the peo
ple.
Kings and Princes speak of their own dispo
sitions. The ma giftratct. ef republics of the dis
positions of their nations. The Prefldent there
fore has evidently used the style adapted to his
thecriticifm upon it if plainly a ca
vil. PACIFICUS,
V ■$*?¥ Tfit wigimdti timiim' •
Mr. Russell,
THE qucftion whether a date is fuablc <Jr
nor, will fpeedrty arrest the attention of
the public. Every information on fa impor
tant a fabjsft, ought to have free circulation.
The rant of fihool-boy declamation, and the
thunder of partizan champions, will doubtlcfs
be palmed on the public for argument and
fact. To them then, early in the field,
and to oppofti to their bombast, real argu
ment, iffuingf om a man, whose abilities, in
tegrity, republican virtue, and unshaken in
dependence are known and acknowledged by
every citizen, I Tend you a copy of the opin
ion of Judge Cufhing, late chief juttice of this
Commonwealth, oh the fubjedV— with a re
quest that it may appear in the Centinel. It
was delivered in the cafe decided in the supe
rior court of the United States in February
last. The quefrion is not the fame in this
cafe, a l * in that which is now agitating ; but
the principles therein-contained apply with
additional weight in favor of n foreign ci
tizen. VERITAS. *
JUDGE CUSHING.
THE grand and principal qneftion in this
ca e is—whether a ffate can, by the federal
coniHtution, be sued by an individual citizen
of another Hate ?
The point funis not upon the law or'prac
tice of England, although perhaps it may be in
funic tneifure elucidated thereby, nor upon
the law of any other country whatever ; but
upo,n the cofiftitution effab iflied by the peo
pie of the United States; and particularly
upon the extent of powers given to the fede
nl judicial in the IdTe(sl inn «f the 3d article
of the constitution. It is there declated that
—" The judicial power stall extend to all
cafe ,in law and equity arilinp under this
constitution, the laws of the Unit«d S.tates,
or treaties made or which (hall be made un
der their authority ; to all cases affecting am
bnflTadors or other public miniJlers and con
sul»; to all cases of admiralty and maritime
jurifdiftion ; to cont'd verges between two
or more States and c itizens of another State;
between citizens of different States; between
cifiz"ns of the fame State claiming lands un
der grants of different States ; and between a
State and citizens thereof and Joreign States, citi
zens ar faijeOi."
Tie judicial power, then, is expressly fx
tendrd to " enntroverfus between a State and citi
zens of another State.'* When a c tiacn makes a
demand against a State, of which be is not a
citizen,-it is as really a contruverfy between
a State and a citizen of another State, as if
f»ch State made a demand agairil such citi
zen. 'Tiie cafe, then, feenis clearly to tall
within the letter of the conlt tution. It may
be fnggefted that- it could not be intended to
fubjsftaState to be a defendant, bccaii'e it
would affect the fovereiijnty of State*. If
that be the ckfe, what (hall we do with the
immediately preceding cli'u c, lt Contmccrfcs
between two or more bates,"—where a State
must of neceflity he defendant i If it was not
the.intent in the very next claul'e alio, that a
State inig'lt be made defendant, why was it
so exo'efled as naturally to lead to and com
prehend that idea ? Why was not an excep
tion m ule if one was intended ?
Again—What are we to do with the last
clause of the jeftjon of judicial powers, viz.
" tort'overJiei SrtL een a lute or the citizens there
of, ar.d foreign States or citizen i f"
Here again, States most be fitable or liable
to be made defendants by this clanfc which
has a (imilar mode nf language with the two
other clawfes I |iave remai ked npon. For it"
the judicial power extends to a controverly
between one of the United Stales and a fii
reignState, as the clause exprctfes, one ef
them must be defendant—And then, what be
come! of the A>vereignty nf States as. far at
filing affects it i But although the words ap
pear reciprocally to affect the S«ate here and
a foreign State, and put them on the fame
$o
[Whole No. 445.]
fioting as f.ir'as may bp, yet inftrnu tv may
fay—that the State l en-may U- but ca illicit
be sued—but that rfce foreign KfMc n u !-c
foed but cknftwt (ue. We snaf touch foreiun
foveieijjnties but not our own: Uiit i c'in
teive the re»fu\i of the thingj as \v.-il *s the
word? of the constitution, tend to (hew, rhat
the federal judicial powef i-xfench to a To't
brought by a f"teij;n state any one K'
the Uoited State?. Ooe of the perietal
government W3s for managing the af
fairs of peace and war, ai d the general'de
fence, which were impofiible to be conduftt d,
with fafety, by the States [tpnrctzh. Inci
dent to thef'e power?, and for preventing con
troversies between foreign powers or citizens
from rising to extremities and to an appell t»
the sword. a national tribunal was r.eceflavy,
amicably to decide tliem, and thus ward off
such fata!, public calamity. Thus, slates at
home and their citizens, and foreign itates
and their citizens aie put together wifhout
diftinClion upou the fame footii g, as far as
may Ik-, as to contrm e.riies between them.
So also with r Tpeft to cuntrnverfie * be
tween a ft.ite and citizens of another (lata
(at hoiijC l comparing all tie clauses togetler,
the remedy is reciprocal—tJic t!d>m to jofiiie
equal.' As controversies between flare and
(late, and between a (late and citizens < t' ano
ther ftjte, might tend gradually to i rive
dates in war and bloodflied, a d!flnter(;fteii ci
vil tribunal was intended to lie trftifo. i cf.to
decide Inch controvei fie;, and preserve peace
and fricndfhipv
Further ; if a (late is.entitled to judice in
the federal court against a citizen ofanother
State, why not I'ucß citizen the I'ate,
when the fajne iangu:.ge equally comprehends
both ! The rights of individuals, and the jus
tice due to them are as dear and precious as
tbo.fe of States—lndeed the latter ai.'e found
ed upon til - former ; and the great ri d and
ohjeft of them mutt be to fecu'eaud support
the rights ot ,ii)di\iduals, or elie van is go
vernment-
But still :t may be insisted, that this will
redoce Hates to mere corporations, and take
away al! rovereign'tj. As to corpoiatTons, all
states whatever are corporations or bodies pit.
litic. The onjy qucftioti is—What a:e their
powers !
As to individual States and the United
Starts, theronfhtntion marks the bovntlary
ot powers. Whatever power is depofitea
with the Union by the people for their own
nepeffary security, is so far a curtailirg of
tbfl power and prerogatives,of (lutes.
This :s, as it were, a felf evident proposi
tion ; at Jer.ft it clnnot be contested. Thus
the powers of declaring war—.making peace
—railing and ("upporting aim es for public de
fence—laying duties, excises and taxes, if
npceUaiy, with many other powersare lodged
in Conjtref**-and are a nioft essential abridge
ment of State sovereignty.
A»ain, the reftr'tftons upon states,
ftr)te (h ill enter into any treaty, alliance, or
confederation, coin money, emit bills of cre
dit, make any thing but gold and Jilver a ten
der in payments of debts, pals any law impair
ing the obligation of contracts; thef'e, with a
number of others, are imporrant reft ftiors
of the power of Hates, and were thought ne
celfary to preserve the Union—and to eflab
lifh foine fundamental", uniform principles of
public juftce throughout the whole Union.
So that I fliini, tie argument of force can
be taken from the foveveignty of ft a ten—
Where it has been abridged, it was thought
neceflary for the g-eater, indispensable good
of t ie whole.
If the coiiftitution is fonnd inconvenient in
practice in this or any other particular, it U
well that a regular mode is pointed cut for
amendment.
But while it remains, all officers legislative,
executive and judicial, both of the ft;,tes, and
of" the Union, are bound by oath to support it.
One other objection has been fDggefted,that
if a state may be sued by a citizen of another
(late, then the United States may be sued by
a citizen of any of the' slates, or in other
words, by any of their own citizens. If this
be a necetfary consequence, it must be so. I
doubt the consequence, from the different
wording of the different clauses, connected
with other reasons.
When speaking of the United States, the
confiitution fays, " Controversies to which
the United States dial! be s party"— not cor.
troverlies between the United States and any
of their citizens.
When (peaking of states, it fays—" Contro
verts between two or more states; between
;i state and citizens of another state."
As to reasons for citizens suing a differ
ent state, which do not hold equally good for
fumj: the' United States; one good one may
be, that as controversies between a state and
citizens and citizens of another state, might
have a tendency to involve both states In a
-coDteft, and perhaps in war, a common um
pire to decide such controversies, mav havff
a tendency to prevent the mifchief that aa
ohjeft of this kind was had in view by th«
lVamers of the corflitntion, I Jiave no doubt,
when I confaler the ctafhing interfering laws
which were made in the neighboring ftatetbforfctne adopt'*"'' ftf the confiuution, d.'d
Jome atle-t.ng the property ot c.tUe»« o» »-
„athct (tare in a very diffeicnt niaticei tiuiu
t;iat of their own citiaeils.
But 1 dw-not tJii .k. it nKteffary to #nt«r iul-
W into the quel**, Whether the United
Stat,-, are liable to.be sued by an individual
citizen? In order to decide the point betore
Up >n the vwhoie, I am of opinion, that
thero Vlfi-ntmn suit sgauift a uaie,
by an liidi. muhl of another flatc. '
A Jj. i.ueftioii made in the cafe w»S « 1 "
. e; thi ~a- ridllar action of ajTi>ni|H»t could
lie afuiuft a state. 1 think aflumpflt Will lie,
ii'any foit; proyUUd a ilate is capable oi con-
X. T3 t! 11 kE«
The 3d. nneition refpefts the competency
of ferv'ce, t»bUb I apprehend good and p.o-
Pi «llia ferv.ee being by summons and noti
fviuu the fuit.t.o the Governor and Attoniey-
G.-nei'bl: the governor, who is «|te lupieine
eneeptjyy magistrate and reprefe.itative ot
tttii state, who is bt.iind by oath to defend tie
state, ami by coi.ftitntion, to give iriorma
t ion to the legislative of all important matters
which concern the interest ot the state , t e
Attorney-General who is bound to defend t.ie
inteicfts ps the state in courts ot law.
fROM THE GENERAL ADVERTISER.
TO METELLUS.
.'• All fooh have JM!"" ifciint to der'rk, -
•' And pin wouldi: upon the htaghi'g J«i'-
ALTHOUGH you did not intend to be ci
vil, I feel nitfelf highly complimented by
what you supposed wit ; and had you been ac
quainted with Balaam and his ass, you wou
Hot have borrowed an aliufioit, which mult
put you to (hame and coniufion- I will in
form you. for yw are certainly ignorant ol it,
that Balaam's long eared companion law tlie
digger to which he was exposed, when .Ins
wife matter fancied b'imfel»> perfes fecunty
—and by his reir.onftrance saved his malter
troradeftruaioii- As you have placed the
" uaoijliuten"'of this country Upon a footing
with this ass, you hive, without your knowledge,
shown the justice of their cause, and that the
Dei-y hiuilelt has inspired asinine remonftia
tors to proclaim the danger of the communi
ty There mull b; real necfiffity when Ba
laam's aires speak, and you have coniefTed this
neceficy, not from deligrt but Atom ignorance,
and they will benefit by the difcloiuie. The
asinine tube, by which you, no doobt, mean
the people, are supposed incapable of judging
of their true interelb, and luch wijioxus as
you are, wilh to have the power of acting as
well as judging /or them ; but A tins was
permitted yon, your allusion would soon ap
ply in tuU force, for you would goad the als
to remouftranee, and to save you frofn the
sword of Heaven, he would crush yuur feet 11
: not your heads against the wall.
If is* a bappinels for this country that the
cause of m iftocracy has fucb defenders as yo» ;
l",r your defence is a more profitable expolure
of your caule, than all Balaam's afles put to
gether have effected.—l would "Hot infultthat
or indeed any Jfecie, of brutes lo much as to
class you with them ; for atles have given, at
<:lcaft, one fptcimen of wifdum, but your firft
essay is yet to come—You must be a mongrel
'.pcodu&Uw Mffcich, far the honor of human
nature, ought to have neither da's nor place
- allowed it. . . . .
I am glad that you ieel so tickled with
. your wit, as to cause another paper to blaze
-with it; you are in the right, fir, for tue
« more e*tenfive the circulation of it, the
• greater will be the ridicule and contempt —
1 I have a better opinion ot the unt'.erltanding
of the nobles whole cause you have attempted,
to vindicate than to fuppole that they will
employ you agait., I Oiall therefore g;ve this as
' u ieou em tuvour cafti'.erc-d Spirit.
1 • JUBA.
• 'FOR THf. GAZt Tl E.
To J U B A.
IT is perfeftW true that my former eflay
was not calculated to flatter you and your
companions in iniquity—your cqnjeflure
therefore outhat head is well founded. T hat
Balaam's long eaied companion told the truth,
(a tiling unheard of among bis fucctfiors) is f»
fact which 1 have already infilled npoi,—lll
.. joining with me therefore jn beating t eft 11110-
ny to the bright fide of your progenitor s cha
racter, you could have been influenced by no
. other motive than vanity. There is one
thing however, which appears to have escaped
U", both, and which unfortunately detracted |
1 from the merit we had ton hastily ascribed to
fl, e a 15—It that lie did not advetize Ba
laam of his danger until compelled thereto,
by some very powerful arguments addrelTed
to his fides tlnough the organ of a lnfly cndgt .
' If this kind of practical logic so immediately
iHie&ed t*> the Julingt was productive oi good
in one iiifiance, who knows but that a similar
X experiment fluH'aUjf performed on our modern
' 'ntmfiraioTi, n.ig'it not work another miracle.
Pray favor ine .with vour fentimeets on the
fotjeft, in your next argumentative perlorir.-
- ance. .
Whatever may be my private or public opi
rion with refpeft to the views or acts of a
* few discontented individuals—l have nfcvcr
permitted myfelf to think, much left speak
difepeftfullv of nations or any colleft.ve bO
dies of people—Be affuved then, that when
1 deduced the pedigree of the remouftrators
of the present day from Balaam's Als, I had
* *'oitty r'efetence to Juba and his ftiends In
deed if there was any thing wanting to fnp
port the aflertio.i, I (haul/ adduce your h.de
ous braying as conclulive evidence, that the
V W ell poised javelin had reached the intended
mark. . _ . , ,
if J was Co depraved as to intuit tne under
' Handing "C mv feilow-citiiens, it would be
juipoiliuic to adopt a mote effeSual mode oi
doing by admitting, t! they I*4
coiiii.iiu.o.xd you and yv*r virttou? all. . ' to*
tA think and ast tor them. And yet »t \w»U.
fecm (if we wcic wiling to «;iv«? lull credit-to
your ielegant ctfay) rbat &c. ai 11 * ' <v_
fk are rynonymoo»tcrms. —Gracious lu-avcn.
What J The Citizens ut tnc United States le
preleutetl by the Jacobin C'.ub of Philadelphia
-.The bare idea involve* an oflcnce ofaveiy
beinoos nalu»e. . ,
Araonc the other mmieroui acts of vtctceo
nef, and Nu-nWan perCdy, common to T*
and vour party, may be r nked the eftablilh
men't offocietiet for the pni pose of engender
iwj.afp.rit of perfection, that in its prog.els
will out-Hi;rod the In'quifitioris of the Na
world. If a man, for inftancc, obferv.es a
profound fileY.ce on political lubje&s, or dil
ciifl'es them with moderation—it be 'pndtnins
acts which appear to be unneceilanly cruf.—
if lie laments the stabs whiih the cnu.e of li
berty is d.iily receiving through cjelign 01 inS
taken zeal—if fie revolts 'at the lmplotis doc
trines which difgracc the age we Irvc ir,—a. d
lastly, if in this lanj of freedom he mm** '«
think for he is immediately branded
with the epithet of Aristocrat. Ala'. It t"
be deemed a thorough paced democrut, it is
necefliry to'polTefs opposite qualities, I J" a 'i
not befitate a moment in Imaking mye.euioit,
Tbefe fociet ; es to which I allude, whether
termed Kepublicai, Jacobin or Udlfincrat <,
are well known to have different o'jefts »j
view. Some »f them are merely calcinated
to anfwtfr the purposes of an election—while
others again are formed for ihe aiowed pur-,
pole of obftruftiug the operations of govern*
ment—perhaps to subvert it- It is a ta<st fi.ll
frefli in the memory ofevery body, that the
tumultuous meetings or popular fociet es
during the year I 786, in a filler State, and of
which the notorious Daniel Shays was piefi
I dent, had'for their-, oljtdl the deflinftiap of
the exilting coi.fiitution. To the _honor yt
tluilc peojile however, it ought to be inert 101 -
ed, that they soon !"aw through the pretended
patiiotUiji of their leadcts, ai d thai they are
at.this mqment. the most induitrious and
able inhabitants of the United States. If
iuch theiefore was the conduct oi.a few despe
rate demagogues ill 1786, it cannot be
ed unfair to impute GmiUr views, to thole
men, who advocate the present unneceliary
and dangerous inflitutions.
It would inde,ed be happy for this country
if all political opinions, call them Ariftocrati
cal, D.-mocratical, or any other unmeaning
name you p'cafe, were difcufTed.by thojt only,
wi'O havirg'JwMf property, Ot what is tan.t.—
mount,fume reputation, are necfflarjly inter-,
efted in its welfare—lt would he but cxeri i(--;
ing a right to which every man is entitled;
from the excellent form of government under
which we live—But when a few fafiious in
dividuals who have nothing to lot'e, tjeiog.ite,
so far fco-Ji the dignity of freemen -.s to yo
lunteer tlie cause of calumny, or become the
lervile tools of a party, they justly incur tltfJ
appellation of Aires—Who if not goaded b*
the whip, are at teaft inftipated by bribery <>ij
flattery to bray upon topics far above tliej
reach of their slender capacities. '
t shall only add, that .11 condescending to
address myfelf to you, fir, I am influenced by
no other confide'ation, than an attachment
a government for the eftablifhmcnt of whiclj
I have fought, and to .defend which ag-.iirft
the machinations of the evil difpoicd,fhall be
dire fled the uniform endeavors of
PETELLUS. j
Foreign, Intelligence, j
P ARI $, May 12.
THE day before yelterday at the!
lime of opening the theatres;
an attempt was made to seize on all
the carriages of the citizens found
in the streets, or at the doors of it>4
theatres themselves, to employ them
in conducing the volunteers to
Vendee. A conliderable number
el'caped, and the reft remained in
the pofleflion of ihofe who seized
them. On this occasion a remon-
(Irance was made by the Section dts
Piques ; and the Council General
of the Cominonscame to the follow.
ing resolutions : —
" That the carriages and horses
(hould be instantly reltored to their
proprietors, who, however, (hall be
bound to produce them when need
ed : . [
And, secondly, that all tljie horses
which (hall have been seized 011 for
the use of the Republic, shall be
branded with a hot iron with a bop
net of Liberty."
The Council besides charged one
of its own body to repair to the,
honfes of the ci-devant nobles and,
others, to seize on-all carriages fit
for the conveyance of the military
from St. Dennis to Orleans.
Yesterday the Council ofthe Com- j
nions decreed, that ill future their
adts should be dated, "the firftyear
(and so in continuation) of the ty
rant's death." To-day they have
aiuitilled the decree, which they
fay would only tend to perpetuate
the tyrant's memory.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
May 10.
The Convention resumed the dif
cuflion on life Cotifticution, anrl de-
482
creed the preamble <>"<! Article j :
i,i the following words :
" 1 lie French People, founding
ilieir Govei nmeiit on the Rights ot
M,.ti in Society, which they have
acknowledged and declared, Adopt
ilie following Conilitution :
" The Kiench Republic, &c> is
one and indivisible."
Lel/er from the Commifi'jncrs with the
army in tht North.
Valenciennes, May 8.
" Gen. Dampierre this morning
made an attack in the wood of
lttieme and Vicoigne, to dillodge
i he enemy.
It was very vigorous anil tlie nr
ing continued the whole day. Jhe
foldievs of the Republic (hewed an
ardour worthy of the highelt praile,
and can ied several entrenchments
with the bayonet. We had about
50 men killed, and several wound
ed, but we di e certain we occahon
ed very great lols to the enemy.
\Ve dill pofiefsfonie of the intrench
meiws which we have taken from
t lie 111 ; but nothing consoles us for
the melancholy accident which be
fej Gen. Dampierre,. our Comman
der in Chief. His bravery having
induced him to advance too var, his
thigh was carried away by a ball.
We have conferred oie provifioiial
Command in Chief, on Lieutenant
j General Lamareh, who commanded
the armp of the Ardennes, but it is
of importance that the Executive
Council should, w ithont delay, ap
point a Commander in Chiet to the
two armies. Four of us were pie
feiit at this affair—the two others
were detained at Valenciennes, I
partly by indifpofiiion and partly
by the necellky ot foi wardingthcle
dispatches.
" XV e -have taken several prison
ers. The 17th battalion of infant
ry commanded by Lieotenant-C'o
lonel Beclair and the 10th battalion
of. la Maycnne, commanded by
Lieutenant-Colonel Malherbe, hav-
I ing at their head Generals Helierc
and Deroque, efFeifted, with unex
ampled intrepidity, a flow anil well
ordered retreat, under the fire of
fevcraj formidable batteries, which
were uninalked upon thein in the
-woods. Nothing could have been
expected but that they should have
been cut to pieces. I hey however
101 l only fix men killed and wound
ed. A soldier who had his ann car
ried away, cried out, when he re
turned to the town, " / have Jiill one
left toferve the nation !" Our brave
General, while surrounded by per
sons who were lamenting his disas
ter, cried out, 1 * ThiJ ii nothing !
Vive la Nation • Vive la Republique
Signed, &c. &c.
Another letter from the fame Com-
miffi oners.
" Valenciennes, May 9.
>«< General Dampierre, who had
his thigh carried away yeftefday by
a ball, died this morning. The
whole army regret in him a brave
soldier, an able General and a fill
cere Iriend to the Republic. The
confidence which he inl'pired in the
troops by bis noble Proclamation,
at the time when the treachery of
Duntcrurier was difeovered ; bis mi
litary life always glorious and un
sullied ; and his death ought to be
called to the remembrance of those
who may endeavor to tarnish the
fplcndor of his juilly acquired re
putation. To-morrow v/< lhall go,
with all the good citizens,to moilleu
with dbr tears the laurels and cy
press whicli will cover bis grave."
Signed, &c. See.
The National Convention, deeply
affedted by the death of this brave
General, charged the Prefidenc to
tellify to his widow, their regret
for this unfortunate event.
FRANKFORT, May 8.
The French set fire to Coitheini
to cover their retreat, but they re
turned.to the spot where they erect
ed a redoubt and some batteries.
On the 3d the Prussians made an at
tack upon them, and they were re
pulsed, aft«r a (harp coined. The
French agnin returned, however,
with a reinforcement of foijr bat-
and re-took the place Go
thy's hurfl'arsand carbineers fuffercJ
much in this bufinefa.
TheK,ing of Pruflia had a very
narrow escape. A bill fell near,
and frightened lii» ho'(e so much
that lie wui YC*,y near tailing on
the King.
On the 6th, the French made * '
Tally from Meniz, and burnt the
village of Mofbacli.
On the 7th, the French moved
from Coftheim, and attacked the
Pruflians, but without effect.
The French have been complete
ly driven fiolll Deux Pouts by Prince
Hohenlohe.—ln the altion, howe
ver, the Auitrians lust Gelt. Laucjir.
niont, a very brave and experienced
officer.
The bridge between Mentz and
Callel is brokeji, and the laiter place
is on fire.
May 9. On the evening of the
7ih, his Pruiiian Majeily directed an
attack on the remaining French bat.
teries between Coltheim and Caflel,
which were carried by aliault, de
stroyed, and two guns taken.
Lait night and this morning a can
nonade was kept up on both fides,
the French endeavoring to re-con-
rudt their batteries, and we on our
(Ide to prevent theni. This morn
ing we seized from them a great
number of Mentzarquebulles,which
carry to a very great diitance.
On the other fide of the Rhine,
the lmperialifts at St. Croix let fire
yerterday, with bomb (hells, to a
French magazine at Mentz, at that
part of the city entitled Gau Thor.
The cannonade on the bridge of
Mentz hos not as yet had much ef r
fetft. The French troops of th«
le, some of whom desert daily ,f»y
that the affair of not
known at Mentz till wkhi.o the, two
last days. That General is now at
Mei genthiem.
The firlt division of CaiTel set out
from hence on Monday lalt, under
General Worinb. It is thought
that the Duke of Deux-Ponis will
fuppl; his Prulliau Majelty with *
regiment.
The Saxons are to be supplied
with three guns taken fi>n»- the
French, and the Prince de Conde 8.
The circle of Franconia-has consent
ed to grant provisionally two batta«
lions of muiqueteers, and one of
grenadiers.
The day before yesterday the
Prufiians granted three botirs to the
French at Mentz, to bury the dead
they loft on the Sth. On that ocqa
fion the latter, quitting the trenches
they have cut above Caflel, wilhed
to try the effetft of a flratager.i, by
calling to us that thev were troops
of the line who wilhed to desert.
On their approaching very near,
their treachery was perceived, and
about fix hundred oi them killed,
a)molt all of whom were drunk;
The battalion of Bander, which was
to have proceeded to the Ne;her«
lands is to a<ft against Mentz.
L O N II O N, May 21
By yederday's mail we learn, that
eleven fail of Englifli merchantmen
have been captured in the Mediter
ranean ; they were principally car
ried into Marseilles.
A dispute which occurred during
the troubles in Brabant, in 179°»
between a Mr, Macfarle, a Scotch
genileman, whom Come pecuniary
embarraflments exiled from this
country, and an inhabitant of Lou
vain, was lately decided in the
neighborhood of that city.—lt be
ing agveed to fire at the fame in
ilaut, they did so, at eight yards
dittance ; Mr. Macfarle's ball en
tered the brcaft of his antagonist,
the contents of whose piflol he re
ceived in the lower part ol his flo
mach ; they fell at the fame inltant r
feufible of their approaching diflb
lution, they forgave each other,
conversed some minutes, and died
I nearly at the fame inltant.
KINGSTON, (Jamaica) June £2.
The advocates for ihe Americans,
aflert thai all the refpetftable peopltf
on the continet are decidedly averi'e
to the fitting out privateers againlt
the English, and that those who had
taken Ft ench commissions are a mere
adventurous rabble, I'nch as are to
be found in all countries, and whose
I'ole object is plunder, be the means
employed what thev may.
By a Spanish veilel arrived or»
Monday evening, we learn that pro
visions, wine and specie were lauding at Monti Clirirtis for ilie use of
the fqamdeoii and troops at St. Do
iDiugu j and that i'eveial trench
prizes had been lent in there.
BERMUDA, June 25.
There seems at present such a du
plicity in the Americans refpec'tin*
the war carrying on, that we ima
gine tney wiih to play the double
game; in Philadelphia and other
parts, they are fmotheriiig the
french Ambaliador with addiefles,
while "others prctenjd the) are'for
peace. It seems to us that they wilh
to be dabbling in troubled water.
ALBANY, July rj.
The progrelfive improvements in
this city must be a source of pleasing
to all good citizens—
repairing ihe ltate : houfe, building
out docks, paving the ltreets, and
opening a pfiUage throogh tlie mid
dle of f'ort-Hill, are the important
objecfts now in hand : The latter
will be of the utmost consequence,
especially to the mercantile people
on the north fide of State-Street,
as the defceiu on that llde will be
the eafielk, should the south fide be
paved in the manner at present con
templated.
BALTIMORE, July rJ.
A report h.jviirg j eltei <lyy pre
vailed that the Cap of the French
privateer, tailed the citizen Genet,
had a recruiting party in this town ;
and tint for the accommodation of
the lame he h id eltablflbed a lioufe
of rendezvous at Kell's Point ; a
Committee of gentlemen were ap
pointed to inquire into the cireuin
itance. We are happy to inform
the public, that the gentlemen, up
on the fullell invefligatioti, were
perfectly f.ufsfied that there was no
the fiighteil ground for the report
July 23.
—• r 1 ! r "
Exirafi oj a litter from Port-au-Prince,
dated July 5.
" General Boiel is in Jereniie ;
he i* inverted by an army from Port
au-Prince and Leogane ; he is aii'o
inverted by sea. It is said that Je
reinie is I'upplied from Jamaica with
provision and ammunition.
" The veflels from iheCape have
glutted the market. Three Ameri
can vell'cls from thence have been
taken tor wmi t>f paper*, and feiu
to Jamaica."
of the Civic CotumiJJiQtt
trs, Caps-Francois, Jutt; 2t, 179' J.
We declare, that the will of the
French republic, and that of its de
legates, is to give liberty to all the
negro warriors, who will fight for
the republic under the orders of the
civil cununifiioners, as well againlt
the Spani.ii ds, as the other enemies,
'' whether internal or external.
The republic desires also to alle-
viate the condition of the other
Haves—l>y preventing them from be
ing ill-treated as formerly—furnifh
ing them with better provilions, and
more capacious apartments for their
. convenience ; higher wages by the
year, and more leisure through the
week to attend to their own affairs
—more kindness and refpedt for the
women who are pregnant, and for
nurfcs—by affording them certain
means of redeeming themselves, by
means of determined sums ; finally,
by giving gradually liberty to the
negroes who can furnilli proofs of
their good conduct, and of their as
siduity in labor, and by giving them
at the fame tipie pieces of land and
• property fufticient to afford them
selves and families an honed sub-
fillenre.
All the negroes who may be de
clared free by the delegates of the
republic, (hall be equal to all free
men, whether Y'hiteor of any other
colour: they enjoy all the
rights belonging to French citizens.
This is the million which the
Na:ionafl -'Convention' and the Exe
cutive Council bfVhe Republic have
given to the civil commissioners.
'" (fcignid) POLVEREL,
SHIP NEWS
POftT</PHtLADELPHIA.
Ship Fanny, Stephens, Teneriffe
■ Fair American, Gilfii, Cape-Frniipoij
ScVr Linnet, Valentine, Port-au-Prince
Cbarmirj> Bets.;)!, Air, Cape-Francois
lietfey, SVIIH;, St. Marks
Sloop DavTdfim, X. Providence
DEEPLY iuiprfflcd wiihthp wisdom and
policy which dilated your proclartia
tion, declaring the neutrality to be observed bv
the United Si*«cs of America, i»» 'be war be
tween France and Other powers of Europe, We,
the inhabitants of ihe city and neighborhood .of
Ticnton, takethis manner to < xpreis'he h: jb
we feel' on lhis r riew-d proof ol
that watchful care yo\« have ever teftiticd for the
bed ititerefta of our countiy.
The present flourilhing condition of the Unit
ed States, tinder a 'conftitution'add atnr» "ninVa
tion of government which comimuid'the adm-iir
rat?on of the world, must caufe'rveiy
mind to deplore and deprecate the calamities of .
war,, . If there is a nfajvin A,iner»ca, whooyfia
wish to fee this country involved in the mifcrtes
under which Europe now groans, he cn'uitbe#»n
enrmy, not onlv to the hippinels of the United ;
States, but to that enlightened policywhicLi
breathes peace and food will to all ihe world.
Senfiblc that ftri£Hv to maintain the princi
ples of neutrality is the 44 duty and mttfreft of
the United States," and the onlv way to rnfure
a continuance of peace and profpenty, we beg
leave to alTure you of our fixed detet rnmation,
not only to comply with the proclamation our
felve.t, but to discountenance and e
very thing which may contravene ttle o >j*£t of
SANTHONAX
Adarcjs of the Inhabitants of the Citx and Neigh
borhood of Irentotif iu }h< Pt'tjidcnt- if the VrtiicT
Statd.
Sir,
Permit us further to that the lime elaps
ed finer the proclamation has given us opportu
nity to know its general acceptation, and that
we believe we express the common Irnumcnts
and the common languagcof the citizfciu of the
itate of New-Jcrfey.
To the Inhabitants cj the City and Neighborhood of
TretO'l.
Ct N'T IE MEN,
HAVING no other view, in the difebarere
of my public duties, bu' to promq'e
the heft in|e r ests of our country, it rile
picture to learn that th<- nVafuies wnu h are .
'aken to "tfffett thaf obj & meet the acceptance
of my fellow-citizen#.
i am pcrfti»ded that the fl"u r ifhing condition
of ihe United Sta'es, and the jiapov fit uaivon of ,
our political < v i'cumftai»ee>i will not fail 'o im
pref* every refining mirid. And Cure I am, j
rhat_ there is not a wcll- wifheY to this coun ry
who ran dtfne to.fee us involved in (.he contest j
in which the poweis- of Europe are now en-•
I
The aflurances o r vour detetinitiation tn nuf
fue such a line of conduct as will, on your" part,
insure the continuance of. peace arid prosperity
of nur cn'unirv, are no less ple?.(mg r to mi' ihan >
the b lief which vou express, thai your _address
conveys 4< f lie common fe'ntinients and IheccSiri-;
mon )arigu6ga of the citizens of the (late of New-i
Jcrfey."
Go. WASHINGTON. ;
Philadelphia, July 2y.
On Sunrfiy fbe"h"Trr Mary, Cfrptafn
don, arrived at New-York from Cape Ffah-'
cois, which he left July 9. The pafifengers,
which are <p in number, inform, that it was
not supposed more tjian from 6 to 9 hundred
persons loft ther lives in the affair of the
—that not more than two-thirds of the town
were burnt—that upwards of 20,000 mulat toes
and blacks are now under a>nis there, well
fortified—that the negioes never crime in from
the country on the late occasion—-that the
Spaniards, from their part of the Jfland, had
taken a town, and were on their mat cSi j and
it is -said, are joined by the aristocrats and
country blacks, A\ Y. Pap.
The name of the French Enit-Indiamanj
arrived at New-York, is Port-Louis, (he is a
bout tons burthen, is commanded by ci
tizen Jarenter ; her cargo consists of spices,
silks, ware, fomc sugar, and various othei"
articles.
FRANCE.
By the IHip Hare, Capt. De Kay, in 64 days
from Bordeaux, which place he left thj tsch
May, we have received several French news
papers, but they contain few particulars of
the late-Battles on the 7, 8, and 9th of May.
—Many were llain of each army ; though the
French ]ofs was great, that of the combined
armies was much g'eater; hut that the French
had 101 l Gen. Dampiere, as has been before
announced in several papers, which they
greatly lamented. The combined forces had
made no impreifion on any of the fortified ci
ties, said to be inverted. On the whole, that
France had little to fear from th# combined
powers—their difficulties arose from inter
nal differences among themselves {'from cqoo
ter-r volutionifts and other difcootented in
cendiaries, which were in a fair way of being
fettled by the forces raised to oppose them.
Provisions of"all kinds were plenty, and not
higher than in England—that Bordeaux was
perfe&ly quiet—that in foine places many -
lives of the incendiaries were cut oil—that it
was necessary that many Ihould be cut oIF to .
save the country from anarchy and ruin,
far we have heard from ('apt. De "Kay and
some palfengers ; 2i paflengers arrived here
in the ship.
The patriotic Society of Newark, (N.
ire purfu'irg measures to obtain fubfcriptioi<
for the relief of the fnifcring fugitives from
Cape Francois—they have appointed a 901111
inittee for this benevolent purpose-—The pro
ceedings of the Society in our next at length/
The Grand Jury of the Circuit Court of
the United States, on 'NVednefttay last made
several prefentmenti to the Court, «fdivers
perfonj in this city, for having caused fun3ry
veflVll Ui the port of Philadelphia to be arrecd
and equipped in a warlike manner, being an
infraSitn of certain treaties, and a dirtftvi.
olation of the neutrality of the United States,
de.Urcd by the i\-e!id»'ut'»Proiianvatioi).
483
We.lufdsv arr/iv-'t he e t'.e [-.rivntorr Sans
*'CUiU!:t«fs,B»'M«in«i(le> ) (all.tiom Nam»> with
the lhi() Kiu :a her |iria;—butb v«lkv> lait-ting
, the city on entering the has bi»r..
The Sans Cutottes; wa brought to hf a
(hot from Fort Mitflin, and alter an exaini
nat on by Capt. Richard Guy, the cornnr6u<l.
ing Officer, was permitted topafs.
The citizens of Baltimore by their fpleu
did a<s* of"charity and humanity Viave erected ( |
in rhe hearts of tl>cfugitives from CajX-f F/an
cois a lnonum&ht of gia'trrude which mall
transmit theifcoiy of their beneyolencc to the
la re ft poilei ity. Some individuals of the State
of jYlaryland have on this occalian, alTtimed a
mqft laudable superiority in a£ts of bent);-
cince. One gentleman at Annapolis' offers
two houses sty the accommodation of two or
, more families—to provide parages foi thole
i f>nnlies from Baltimore to Annapolis*, a
' prelencJupply of thread, ,&c* &c. another gen
tleman in Chester Town, has sent one bun
[ died dollars as his mite towards alleviating
oheir calamities."
44 Marble or braf\ dcvOvring time may uiajls"
Hut act i like thefc clcnally Jhail lajl.
Morse's Geography, improved and great
ly enlarged with many add tional Maps-—
Isjuft published, in two largeo&avo volumes,
Price three dollars and an half.
The judge of Pennsylvania Diftri£l h3vnor re
ceived information on Oath,that certain Citizena
of the United Stares had a£ted in foveral capaci
ties as officers on boird an armed Schooner faiii
to be cornmiHioncd by France as a ciuifer or
private-flikp of war ; and, with ottyfr* o# boar<l
that febooner, did capture and make prize of
feyeial .veflVls belonging to the fubjc&s of his
Bntamuc Majefly, who is at pcnce with the ti
nned States, ccnrrary to their duly a* citizens
of the United States.
On receiving thia information,'he Judge ilTu
ed his warrant (or apprehending the persons a
gainst whom the complaint wa* made—fftat
,tnrv might anlwer for their doings in the pre
xiwfes, and be de.ilt with acco'dtngto law, that
leu a I proceedings in this. aud lome other bufw
m'f>, be had fpeedi'v, one of the fudges
of the Supieme Court of the United States,
arid the Judge of the Peuufylvanta D ftrift, if
tued then warrant, dirt&ing that a fpceial fefli
oh of the Circuit Court for this di(lri£t IhouM
be held the and that grand and
traverfc jurors (hould be fumrnoned to attend it.
Extra& from Jtidgc Wilson's charge lo the
Guiid-jury, Ju.y 22, 1793.
44 Is it then unneceilary, or imp'operhere
to fay, that Peace (hould be deemed the basis
of the happiness o( nations.
44 Peace on Earth this is a patriotic
well as an angelic wish. >"
u But with war, and rumours of war, our
ears, in this imperfect ftatc of things are still af
faile'd.
4< Into this unnatural flatc, should a nation
fuffer herfelf to be drawn without her own *<7,
or the ast of kirn, or them, to whom, lor this
purpnfe (he has delegated her power ?
44 Io:o this unnatural (late, (hould a nation
fdffer hrrfe+f to b<r drawn by the- unauthorized,
nay', by the unlicenfcd conduit ot any or her
citizens ?
41 Thcfe, gentlemen, ate questions, to which
you are now called to give the clolVll and deep
est attention.
w That a citizen, who in oar state of neutral
ity , and without the authority of the nation, takis
an hostile part with either of the belligerent
powers, violates thereby hit duty, and the laws
of his country, is a pofuion as plain, as to require
no proof, and to be scarcely fufctpnble ot deni-
** Under the t-reatv of amity and commerce
between the CJvited States and France, it may be
made a queUion, whetherthe pnyateeisof that
power have a right to pit thEiR ships
IN OUR PORTS.
4 ' This qurftion arifts from the 22tl article of
'hat treaty— 44 It ftiall not be lawful tor any
foreign privateers,not belonging tothc fu*>jr&s of
the Moil Chriitian Maicjiy, nor cm/ens of the
United State?, who have commiflions Irom any
other prince or fta'.e in enmity with either na
, tion, to fit their ships in the potts of either the
or the other of the aforefaid patties."
" If maybe that this prohibition a
ga'nft fitting the (hips or privateers belonging to
any other nation implies a perinijjion to fit the flip*
or privateer* belonging u> France. But the in
feience cannot jullly be drawn. If, by a pro
' mifc made to tine person, 1 restrain mylcif irom
lending money to any others, I am not surely,
by that retraining engagement, obliged to lend
my money to him. It may be convenient, u
may be necejjary for me to refeive us application
exclufiveiy lor my own purposes. In the fame
manner, by a stipulation that, in a war between
France and Britain, we will not lend the
use of o,ur ports to the privateers of the latter —
we are, by no means, obliged to lend it to those
of the former. It may be convenient, it may
be necessary, for us to refufe it to both.
44 True it is, that, by the treaty, we arc obliged
to it to Britain, and this, to one of the
parties, wA* probably an important object. But
it remain's in our option whether we will, ur
will not, grant it to France.
" Both thr nation* which made this treaty
iniaht the most unexceptionable, nay, the
mod commendable motives tor reserving to
thcmfelvcs this option; — France, particolai ,
might have the (trongeft ita'on*, tor icfufing to
bmd herfelf, at all events, to permit even the
United fetes, *o fit out, in her pom, private rs
again(i -any nation (however united to her by com
pAClj with which the United States might be at
fftav-Yoik Diary.^
** This option, pcihapx, with Fiance t a favor,
ite one, each oi the patties to the Meaty rtferve
the power ot making. This option, our nation,
or its reprdcntanvck lor ihdt purpoit, have Dot
yet made. This op'itm, private titizcns Ire
certainly unauthorised and unwarranted to
make. Private.citizens, therefore, af[ift>iig in.
a buGnefs of ibis kind, offend ihe lau i and for
thhr offences aie amtnabu to thejuftice oj the
y.at,on. If yott know at «<ny such, it is your
du.y;» here."
At a .mre'uof. thp r - unrr.f fr(>m th tf
PrimtvlVaina aiid Mary-i^ud 1 Cana) Comprint»»
togcti;«T' vv itu * nAWin-r «/f I* Crti*<-r S.
frcni the Mates o* Ma'/Wmd *ir«i Ufrtaw.'iv* hvjd
ai imjlfc .J****#*.
i fe, 1733, for «hr » w©i*
-ca4t»liQ Mw
.. Dt-lfrwafrr, *t»rt fafeteaftng the|JV#
'SttlquVhaniia, W & nfry ¥ as ay*
aft#:
i ..Mr .jr W-'**!
1 Prntifvlvjira .£'**#»
i belt nv ft i G-'h wrt 8 I?
l>cui£ p«idtjc< d 4ii(i rear', ye?t ap
(jrovtfri oi" ( ; \#fio£?ip<>ii the ' a'lf&tftoi
agrrt-a to the fol'townijj rrfofu'iw>Vv l lv ' _
i(L Tb*t fr'efcrripaTiY or
incorporn'l(frf ft?'
rvlaixl, aju)
ing the . W*f£fei'i£QfYjf?.jNfthr
Maryland line, <>r OtWyiiftft*
»; f <>'if '
ihe Chclapcnk >iio peTa«nrar«* p*\ t f l\-1
and lock ; ' • *''*•■•
*'W"Tharitic flfcytf'&att
ronfift cf tfftres* *#£ i'fcat frtlmfwrlfl
l->we<i for '^Hrl*vf
ftwres in Pennfy]v«*lia^opf t»
and onr third in,.peU*r*tfcj/ihe fttirfciriacr* t<X
pay the whok >mouui by —«*•
■ \</w <vV*- ' • '*-• ■•
3d. That the proportion of the capital Rock
to be. t * pe&dcd •an tub <rf the, wpiks\ **& J to«
tolls to ttfi received, ibaU be ijlitjied in ti* »&*
of incorporation.
4 f h. Tha» the mutual trrms and engagements
for carrying on, compleaung, and maintaining
the on. so far as it shall be carried thro*
the fcveral states, shall be feitlcd by a&s of in-
corporation.
5 r li. That a committee of eorrefpondence be
appointed, to coiifili of members from the dates
atorefaid, whole doty it ihall [>c to corref ( u>nd
with eac.{i other, and to oicpare memorials and
bills correfpond'nt with the foifgoing tefolu
iions, lo lav before the fev ral legiflaiuies afoie
aid at their fr ft meeting.
Th« wrTe tJrefen eb a
vi». • 1 '' '
'• • r 'a-
Genrr»l WiiJt-»ni l;«,in«. fefliprtli
Si*w»fj, Tturh' Cox«', L«i
tor Wirtlim Smkh, iVJ\et» JTi(hM,A«wijfiWof
toa• ' • ' • ••■■■?•■-•- !■•
' ' " ' ; " '.
Na'hanicl Rim fry; S»Wu<*l" Hngh », Jokn
O'Donald, titoifeir 6 Hrnrf Wotlingfwoith.
from fitlimurt. ' jr
Boffyjr -Wi«h«l» llf»y, DuAon'
Nicholas. Rtrfgif.v, ®i>tior Jofcph Mi|lf»,. WvW
li*m H. WclU, Milium* Vcrry,
On the 7rh instant dieJ at Clavarack, Hen
ry Van Renfellaer, E r qutrt, in rhe BDtli year
of his age. And on the 9th, in U'Uer coun
ty, Mr. Peter Duillnid, a«cd 93 years.
TheDiltrift Court ofNo'th-Ca olina, l-ekl
at Wilmington, has deta mi' cd that the JtNtl
ethtbited on lieha'f of tiu- owners of aßriiJU
ve Tel, ea;>tnred i>y a p iv.itee , comma <|
by a Captain Hervieu*, a Fiench cittzei,, »ml
carried inro that port, fliouhl not be admit
ted, the cause mVt being cogniiahie in iliut
Court.
rtSfcon OTmffWr, ast «>».Troe><i
f %M P r .V»ate«;r «bjjtn.f|>« , w*»nH)dfl,
was b6un(f by tti? £vurt .t« tnake> ht»»ap)»cji'-
ancc it tte ta
thettarge. • . , , -'i ■
Extrafl if t titter dated StmdetiiXi Ukj
" Tht-cluimdi wMv JfrU u* w»t« ii,,m
this coumiy mtAtr il m>prodtot -tor *xtf
thin(s an ihe fubj. ft ot pol9iw*.i Wrz%te pfi
+etliy qui. < here uid ia i *£«<»(; oft-hi*
D<-p»umem.. The ut »f'
imuci iheii tmilaim prjt&ioa and't»vui -ta.th*
Amtlicjn com'ns«icr, »Hd ik« iMkttngfpmtplA
have iniitb coi 6dti.te p*yh>gh<r
id American viifcli than Winy oih-r ma ij!
ourr.
44 Freight* d-ullarf f«,
ton, ot hhrij. win, , and tert f»i. cuj
Fiance 4O' dot*. t ,r. to. and 'o,
For Holland and Ham Town* £4 frit pi; >•«,
For the Bailie, ~ , si i l V^UK
Eoieign wheat jf ft. Amci It«a btift'tl,
Flour 34/' • "•'
T«bac<» r $e*<gci. »». Cu
Whale Oil . 651- P'. Ct.
L ver do,. -$|. pr . C«.
Wjialt bunc «o»<iag» pr. Cl.
Beef- IQOI, pr. Barrel,
?®ik tael. 1 j>r. -<I<V
Exchange London, ,j I. llfrl. pr. llvrc.
UVi A CG K u CSPOh i> £ NT,
While ceuaiu peifons, who tor very good
reaG.m keep therafelvet Behind the cU'tain, arc
continually dinning the public car with com
plaiuu, anJ insulting the inajelly of I lie people
by reviling their government, let the candid
part ot the community (and lor the honor of
human nature we believr it by a great odd» the
majority) attend to the opeu and manly, decla
rations ot thole whom we know to be our
friend* ; and who fay and let their name* to the
alTerticn, that the people ot the United Statei
under i he bell conltituiioo in the world are fret,
fMrjkitf and Affair.—lndeed the cnc.miei
our peace liave undertaken a moic tfiah'Hercy-
I an rnierpiize, m attempting to invalidate by
mifreprejenttttim and lia, the' evidence ol out
finks. ••
Cciuin persons, who arc no longer candidate*
for inlaroy, having long fi,ice attained the high
eli degree, cinpkiy themfelvea peiipecually is
fcribUling the.fciubbeft abuse fgmtifc the pef
loos who aitbonoied with the hightft const.
deuce of the people. There are fume circ'unk
llancet in fins bufinefa which ipd(C«te the con
lummate rruJtJly ot the inceodianes ; but it
would be difficult to point out an individual in
public lite who polfelfcithe lmallell degree ®f
merit, that has not been honored by tin;
ol ihefe eueiniti of all vmuc. '
PRICE OF STOCKST
>8 f
xOf
6 per Ccr.ti,
>er Cmii, '
I\f '
fruli lha#ci Bank t:. adv
t1 *?"'«tJUM rut ntx yoak ui..ky.
Tie J/ti'iouting Jid'.ui u? - c (t wpflfeu by a !ad\ rj
lb s city, anijun*. ul the c*tcrfain/\c f
KW trtK.li Cunjui tiled French talrtul*> Aciv
'burky jc/y 14.
HAKK, hark, how the clamors of war
Th>o* Gallia's wide region* resound,
Bellona has moun'ed her car,
And scatters her terro.s around-
Captivity bursts offher chains,
Her ihoutings are heard on the heath.
Her vet'rans are crowding the plains
Refolv'd upon Freidom or Death.
But fee ! from her battlements high
Plum'd VlCT'ry undaunted alight,
Her standard ihe waves in the (ky,
And urges her forts to the tight.
The (words all indignant they claih,
They rulh round the Bajiile's strong walls,
Ah ! hea d you that horrible cralh ?
The Town of proud Tyranny falls,
minions of despots all fly,
Purfu'd by detHu&ion and wrath,
Tear wings their fad flight, and their cry
Dtfturbs the deep (lumbers of Death.
Haste, hefte, man's disgrace, disappear,
Viie w.rctches, of nature the blot,
And wherever your hamlets you rear,
May shame and distress be your lot.
)iut GALLIA all hail! may thy chiefs
A IVmple of Liberty rajfe,
And thrr're mav their feudn and their griefs
Bo loft in its altar's bright blaze.
And when they remember this day,
BcdeckM with the laurel and vine,
May angnilh and care fly away,
And their voices in anthems combine*
And then may the warblings of fone.s
Be heard from Columbia's green vales,
While echo the wild notes prolongs,
And whispers them foft to the gales.
And Qh ! let the zephyrs so fleet
E&ar the lweet-fwelling notes o'er the main,
And there, let them fondly repeat
In the car of each Frenchman the drain,
FASHION.
TPOO moriftrous large, the railer pries,
Our Ladies' Heads; when Hats do rife.
But if Dame FaQiion dares to change.
And into Lilliput to range;
They're now too little grown; and then,
They hardly emulate a pin !
Fa»hion I fear will ne'er do right,
Til LadieV Heads ftie takes off, quite—
For broad or narrow, high or low,
Tne Inailing race their teeth will (how.
RULES
To be observed in tranfafting Btmnefs with the
Insurance Company
OF NORTH-AMERICA,
ift. \LL orders lor lufuranoe mull be given
IX. in writing, signed by ihe applicant ;
and as minute a defcripiion of the vtlfol is ex
pelled, as the pet ion ordering the infmauce can
give, refne&ing her age, built, how found and
lined, and whether double or Angle deckcd.
ad. All policies will be ready tor delivery in
twenty-four hours after the order tor insurance
is accepted at the office, and the policy muil be
"taken up in ten days.
3d. Notes, wi han approved endorfei, for all j
premiums, mull be given in len days, payable ;
as follows :
For American and Weft-India rifques, in
three n onths after the date of the policy.
For European rifques, in fix months.
For India and China rifques, in 13 months.
For rifques by the year, in eight months.
For rifques for fix toonths, in fonr mouths.
months.
4th. LofTes will be paid in ten days after proof
and adjustment ; but it the note given for the
premium shall not have become due within that
time, the amount of it shall, neverthclcfs, be de
duced from the loss to be paid.
The Insurance Company of North-America
hereby give notice to all whom it may concern,
that, agreeably to 1 he above rules, they are read\
to receive all osders tor insurance, which may
be addressed to them, accompanied with diiec
tions to feme responsible house in Philadelphia
for Ihe payment of the premiums within the
time Hmittd.
In caff the rifques offered (hall be approved,
the insurance shall b< immediately effe&ed ;
other wife notice shall be given, eiihei by anf w'er
to the person applying, or to his agent, in Phila
delphia, as may be ordered. *
Bv order of the Dirc&ors,
EB'ENEZER HAZARD, Scc'ry.
July 3. 4 W
INSURANCE COMPANY,
Phi ladelphi a, July ift, 1793.
NOTICE is hereby giveilto the members ot
the Insurance Company of North Ameri
ca, thai the Dirrftors have declared a dividend
fto this day) ot fix per cent on the amount of the
ftril inftalmem, and of one per cent per month,
011 the funis paid towards the second and third
j instalments, calculating from the fitft day of
the month following that in which these pay
ments were made. The Dividend will be paid
1 t® the Stockholders or their Representatives, at
the Company's Office, (No. 119, south Front-
Street) at any time after the 7th inft.
HAZARD, Sec'ry.
W.f th* members of this Company are much
diffierfed throughout the United States, the Printers
il\ihc fever aljlates are rcquefled to give the above a
place in their newjpepers.
\! ibn.f Dootti . wTTc of M. Doui ti t an
inhabitant du quoini jt Vallteres, 101 l h< r NU
bmtl 111 tlie dil»ti«*(s ot the Capt- 011 the 20111
l'.o» I*ll. Shr is ignorant ot tiu fate—She ic
q .iliP lf»*t «i»ofe who tpay nave i( in (licit po*.r
lo give hn any icfpgttive her hus
band, wo.ild lend ii to the houfr*.. Mrs. Hud
son, H«g!i-luee?, Bal.imoie, where the rclides,
ot 10 Madame guAwTE, rt the lame llreci.—
A re-publication of the above by the fever al printers
is a.
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Propneiors of the under
the Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BEG leave to inform the public, thai ihcy have
now brought their WINDOW-GLASS to
such peife&ion, -s will be found, on compatifon.
to be equal, in quality, to rhc bell London
Crown Glaf>.
Having fixed their piic#-» at a lower »ate IWai»
imported Glass, they are induced to believe, that
importationi of this article will be difcon:<nu£d,
in proportion as their woiks aic cxj ended.—
They piopofe 10 enlarge the fcaie of till* bvifi
nefs, and as the fucce's of it will depend on the
patriotic fiipport of the public, the'y beg leave lo
foliqit their liiendly pauonage in the purfoit of
a biaiich which will inicreti every iovcr ot
American M a n l ya c r u r ts.
Ail order*, tor Window-Glass, of any size,
%rill be received at the Store of Rhodes and
iMacGxfgor, No. 234, Onecn-ftreet, New-
York, and at ,the GUIs Wa r ehoule, No. 48,
Market.Uicei, Albany, which will be punctually
attended<o.
83" WANTED, fix smart a&ive LADS, not
exceeding 16 years of age, to be indented as
Apprenticed, and regularly inftrufcied in the
various branc hrs of Glats-Makin^.
Also, three Window-GUIs Makers to whom
great encouragerhent will bt given.
May t, >793 epi ? w
By THOMAS JON A JON, DAVID
STUART,&.DAMEL CARROLL,
Efqtiires,
Commissioners appointed by Government to
prepare the Public Buildings, See. within the
City of Wajhington, lor the reception of Con
grefs,;and for iheir permanent rcfidence after
the year 1800—
*•> 1
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,900 Tickets at 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollars,
LIST OF PRIZES, vjz.
1 Super b Hotel, wi'h baths,)
our houles, Scc.occ. to cost )
1 Cadi Prize
1 ditto
1 ditto
1 ditto
2 diuo
10 ditto
20 ditto
joo ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 d-itto
5,000 are
1,000
500
100
50
2 5
20
10
16,737 Pf'Zfs
33,263 Blanks
50,000
By this scheme at leajl the amount of the tick
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City will gain its objefcl thereby,
in a magnificent building designed both lor pub
lic and private convenience.
Although some expence mufl neccfTarily at
tend the condu&iug of the lottery, (which ex
pence will be taken from the principal prize) the
Coinmi/Tioners having agreed to present in re
turn a fufficient quantity of excellent frce-ftone,
togdher with the best adapted lots for the hotel
and for the out-houfes, the value of the lottery
entire may be fairly rated at something more than
par: In this important instance it will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other countiy. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will be deliveied to the
fortunate poflVtTor of the ticket drawn aagainft
its number.—Ail the other prizes will be paid,
without deduction % in one month after the dracvingyby
the City Treasurer at Washington, or at such
Bank or B<«nks as may be hereafter announced,
for the convenit ncy of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
"6th of Septembei next, at the City of Wafhtng
ton.
Tickets mav be had of Col. Win. City
Treasurer of Washington ; Tha\er Z3 Battleof
CharleOon, South-Carolina ; Gideon DeniJ'on, Sa
vannah; MefTrs. James Wejl & Co. Baltimore;
Mr. Peter Oilman, Boston ; and at such other
places as will be hereaftet published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for thebeft Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baihs, Stables, and other out houses, i[ prejented
on or UJore the 10th oj April next-, and a pre
ference will be giv< n to the Artist for a Con
tia&, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be erc&ed, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by 1200 feet, with a
back avenue to the stables, &c. Sections and
cftimates of the expense will be expe&ed
with the elevations, &c. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars mud be regarded by the Architect as the
utmost limit in the expense intended for this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the a Hairs of the City.
March, 61793-
BANK oj the UNITED STATES.
July ift t 1793.
NOTICE is hereby given that there wiii be
paid at the Rank after the lCih irftant, to
, the Stockholder? i>r their Representatives duly
authorized, FOURTEEN DOLLARS and
FIFTY CENTS loi each Share, being the divi
dend declared for the last fix months.
By order,
JOHN KEAN, CaOiicr.
c P3W
484
UNIVERSITY s/PEKNSYLVANIA
July 12, 17SJ
r T^HE vacation for the Ph lolopbical dalles
X commences on Monday the 15th inllant,
and «s 10 continue' Ji* wet ks ; and lor the dit
!j;uot It hoots, belonging to.Uie InftitvtiQfi,nil
Monday the t.ufiaiu, to continueJ»ur weeks.
The Commencement lor contemn;; Decrees
on the Students of the Senior Class, who have
tjcen already examined be fate the Faculty and
Trutlces,and approved o! by ihem, will be held
on the 2d ,Wedn« fday of September next.
As ihe Philofoohical ProfrffoM will begin
their couifes of l.t&urcs aboui the lft of Sep
tember, to the C lades under their care, and as it
is usual for Students horn distant pans, who
wilh to finifti their education in the University,
to enter one or other of these Claires, according
to their proficiency in Literature, it is recom
mended to such Students to make their applica
tions for ad million at ihat time.
J
The Le£turc> ol the Provoll for the ben.fit of
the Mtdical Sudcnts, will begin, as usual, on the
fiiilof November, when che Le£turcs ol the
Medical Proftflors commence.
13y order of the Faculty.
Wm. ROGERS, Sec'ry.
THE AMERICAN MUSEUM, from its
commencement in January, 1787, 10 its
termination in December, 1792, in twelve vo
lumes, price, neatly bound ami lettered, nine
teen dollars and one fifth.
Tlve opinion of the President of the United
Stages, refoefcting this work, is as follows :
41 I believe (he American Museum has met
with extensive, I may fay, with universal ap
probation from competent judges ; for I am of
opinion, that the work is not only eminently
calculated 10 diflemina:e political, agricultural,
philosophical, and oth< r valuable infotmation ;
but that it li.'s been unijormly condufled u iih tafle,
attention, and propriety. If to thcfc important
objects be fupei added the more immediate de
fao of rescuing public document* from obli
vion— I will venture to pronounce, as iwy len
timent, that a more usetul literary
PLAN HAS NEVER BEEN UNDERTAKEN IN
AMERICA, or one MORE DESERVING OF pub-
LIC ENCOURAGEMENT."
>'*'• $■
City of Washington.
January 71 h, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lots in this City will be of
fered for sale at audion, by the Commis
sioners, on the 1 71b day of September next.-*-
One fourth part of the purchase money is to be
paid down, the re fid u? at three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interefton the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Ccm'rs.
Extract of an A& of the General Assembly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co-
.50,000
25,000
20,000
1 5000
10,000
iO t OOO
io,oco
iurnbia, and the City ot Wafhingtoo.
44 Be it cna&cd, That any foreigner may by
d;ed or wilt, hereafter to be made, take and hold lands
within that part of the jaid Territory which lies with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by him, ana tranfntitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
oj thi) State: Provided, That no foreigner Jhall y
in virtue hereof, be entitled to any fui they or other
privilege of a citizen."
Jan. 19. tf
10, coo
10,000
10,000
io-,coo
20,0C0
150,000
Dollars 350,000
r "T , HE Editor of the Gazette of the Uniteb
Statf.s, proposes publilhing the Paper,
under that Title, every Evening, Sunday's
excepted.
To render it interesting as a Daily Publi
cation, it dial) contain foreign and domestic,
commercial and political Intelligence :—Ef-
fays and Observations, local and general : —
Maritime information :—Prices Current of
Merchandize and the Public Funds. Alfd a
summary of the proceedings of Congreft, and
of the Legiflatnre of this State :—with a
(ketch of Congressional Debates, &c.
Advertizing favors will be gratefully rs
ceived.
To be printed on paper of the demy size ;
but a larger size (hall be substituted inDecem-
ber next.
The price Six Doll*rs per Annum, to I*
paid half Yearly.
When a fufficient number of Sub/bribers is
obtained, the Publication Ihall commence.
In the interim, tile Gazette will be publish
ed twice a week as ufua!.—Subfcriptions are
refpe&fully solicited by the Public's humble
servant,
JOHN FEN NO.
(£3~ Subscriptions are received at the City 7aiern,
South Second Si)tct—by Mr. Dobjon, at the Stone
Houfe —by other perjons who are m pojfej/iov vjjub
fcription papers, and by the Editor at his huufe,
fto. 34, North Fijth-Street.
Philadelphia, July, i? 93»
MOST eathcjilj ~equejis those oj his dijlavt Sub-
Jcribr.rs toho are infrrears jor the Caztfie, to tnake
payment as foonas puj/ible.— fhofc pcrjorn tuiw have
received fubfeript ion money on his account are desired
to remit thejame. The arrearages jot the Gazette
have accumulated to ajeriovs amount—Serious,'aj
they are the only rtjource dijeharge vtty serious
engagements incurred in the projection 0] in s ex
perijnepublication. Philadelphia, June 16.
FOR $ALF. S bY
MATHEVV CAREY,
At his Stcre, No. 118, Market-street,
PHILADELPHIA,
To the Public.
TERMS.
T H.E tD 1 J uJi
TAF AWT*Y DaJtAfcia«KT, juiw «6,1 753.
NK)llCt4llMirl^|i»Q» t .ti|«( proffibw wi.i
be •rc(i«((t«i ( yir of the Srcr<nry of
thi TiraWifj ilfee fourteeplh d»y
ttiobrr 4XkPTMlUftvely, fbr Cupiity Trf mlfi
Jtattov *fcich may be tefcuiied tor ihe u(c of
the UaiuittilH; lib"* hwU**jUy'ol'. Jjnan y
i«<j OrwoMhts:i9M«jtf>iii
at the flmta, »od
»i«.' -
,k At-nU lUt«l jllitik'W«it#Viit|[-Ti>*iK
lUitir(ijr,'Kl We Lit
ftt4(targbjfc*i fct({Wi»gM£«rfc'«o<m&f
■ *.
the Ritßijivcr Crrtk,»nd at themota*
or fl'g Beaver Cittfl. ' '
' j. At any plate AftibcMfitrtrt iWHltdMMtli
4*' iKt MlaofikiJaidJlig fit'Mcr, it>4 j*t
.ij;. j , ~
4. Ai any place Of jd»cc> from the laid upper
fail* 10 aod at Mihcvung.
-5v At any placfc or placet from Che said Mi
%6ntttg over !o th< Hca<! ot tbc fiver
and at rhe said Kkrad Nt> galisn.
6. At any place or pi*cc& iroin the fetid Head .
.Navigation to the mouth of the laid river Caya
hoga, and at the said mouth.
7. At any place or placcs betwixt the moutN
of rhe Big Beaver Creek, to the mouth at the
rivrr Mufkingum, and up the said fiver to the
Tufcarowas, aud at the Tufcarowas, and thence
over to the Cayahoga rtver, and iheuce down the
said river to its mouth.
8. At any place or places betwixt the moutlt
of the river Mufkingum and the mouth of the
Scioto river, aud at the mouth of the fatd river
Scioto,
9 At any place or placrs betwixt ihe mouih
ot Scioto river 8c the mouth of the Grcai Miami,
at the month 6t the Great Miami, and fr'»m
thence to ihc rapids or the falls of the Ohio, and
at the laid rapids.
to. At any place or places betwixt the mouth
of the Great Miami, up (he said Miami to and
at Pique Town.
11. At any place or places from Fort.Wafb
ington to Fori Hatniltoo, and at Fort Hamilton.
At any place or places from Fori Hamilton to
Fort St. Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
12. At any p\A£h or plaecs from Fort St; Clair
to Soil Jtfffeifon. and ai Fort Jfffcrfon.
13. At any place or piaccs li om Fo> i jeffcifoh
to the field ot afiipn of the 4'h of November*
1 and at the fatcf field of atfion.
14. At any place or places from the laid field
of a&ion to the Miami V liases, and at the
Miami Villages.
—I*--*
15. At any placc or places from the f<)id Mi
;mt Villages to the falls of the Miami liver,
which implies into Lake Eric, and at the said
jails, and froin thence 10 its mouth, and at its
rnouth.
16. At any plareor places from the mouth of
the laid Miami river of Lake Eric to Sandufky
Lake, and at Sandtiftcy Lake.
17. At any-place or places'from the said S&n
_dufky Lake, to the moui h of the river Cayiihoga.
18. At any place or places from ihe mouth of
the laid river Cayahoga to Prefque Isle, and at
Prefque Isle.
;9 At any pierce or places from Prrfque Isle
to the it re am tunning into Lake Erie Irom to
wards the Lake, and thencc over ifc
and at the said jadaghque Lake, and thcucc dowl*
the Alleghany river to Fort Fianklin.
20. At any place or places from Prcfcjue Isle
to Le Bcuf, and at Le Beuf.
21. At any place or places from I.e Beuf to
Fort Franklin, and at Fort Franklin, and from
thence to Pinlburgh.
22. At any place or place! from the rapids of
the Ohio to the mouth of the W.i bash river, and
from the mouth ol the laid Wabafh river to tlx
inouth of the river Ohio.
23. At any prtacc or -places cm rhe East fide <if
1 he river M'fliflippi, from the mouth of the Ohio
liver, tp the inouth of the Illinois river.
24. At any place or placcs fiom the mouth of
the laid Wabafh river up to Tort Koox, and at
Fort Knox.-
25. At <*-ny place or places from Fort Knox up
thefjtd Waba(h 10 Ouittanon, and atOuittanon.
26. At anv place or plates fro in Oumauou,
up the fjid Wabafh, to the head navigation oi a
branch thereof calW d Little River, and at tlfc
said head navigation of Little Rrver.
27. At any plat e or places from th<* fald head
navigation of Little River over to the Miami Vii
lagf.
28. At any place or plates from the mouth 6l
the nv?r TenefTee to Occochap-pooi Hear Creek,
on the said river, inclufivcly.
29. At any place or places from the mouth of
the river Cumberland to Nashville, on the ("aid
river, and at Nashville..
30 And at any place or placcs wwhin thtrry
miles ot said NalhvilJc 10 the Southward, West
ward or Northw-ard thereof.
Should any rations be required at any plaee*,
or within olher drftn&s, not fpecihcd in 'theHe
propofaU, the price of the fame to be hereafter
agreed on betwixt the public and the contra&or.
The rations to be supplied are to confill of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One. pound of beef, or J of a pound of pork.
One quart of fait, }
Mwo quarts of vinegar. \
Twi, finds of rep, (P Cr
One pounrd of candle*, J
The rations are to be fui nifhed in foch quanti
ties as that there (hall at during the said
term, be fuffceient ior the consumption of the
troops at each of the said posts, for the space of at
lcaft 3 mouths in advance, in good and whole
foir.e provilifons, if the faint fllall be required.
It is coheunderftood in each cafe,that allloffct
fuftatned by the depredations of the enemv, o* by
means of the tioopsot the United States, (hall be
paid for at the prices 6! the'articles captured or
deftroved, on the demolitions of two or more
creditabJc characters, and the ccitificate of a
commiflioncd officer, afccrtaining the circum
stances of i he loss, and the amount of the articles
lor which compensation is claimed.
The contra£f for the above supplies will be
made either for one yi ai, or lor tuo years,, a> may
appear eligible. Pcrfon* disposed to contract
will therefore confine their-offers to one year, or
they may make their proportions so as to admit
an ele&ion ol the term of two years.
The offers may comprtfe all the places which
have been fpccified, or a part ol ihetn only.