(( vV /./ / * i / {
ojrro
YS BV
'
V,
-—: —-—; f, ■ * 'i. 1 ■
K,NATIONAL■ P;4PEk\ PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS A'tttP'SATrfflDA'
[No. 155 of Vol. IV.]
June 2b, iftfr
NOTICE ishercbV given, that piopotals will
be received at the office of the Secretai y of
the'Freafury, antil the fourteenth d*v of Sep
tember netft inclufivcly, for the supply 61 all
Rations which may be required for the uie of
the United Slates, froin the fir ft: day of januaiy
!o thethirtv-lvft day of Dccemoti 1791, both
days inclusive, at the places, and within the
diltri6h hereafter men'ioned, vis.
1. At anv place or places bet wixt York-Town
and Carlifl \ in the state of P nntylv*ma. and
Pi:i{burgh,& ai Prilburgh.Yoi k-town&CarlifUv
2. At any place or places from to
the mon h of Big B-javcr Creek, and at the .mouth
of Big Beaver Creik.
3. At any placc or places from the said mouth
to the upper fails of the said Braver, and at
the upper falls.
4. At any place or pTaccsfjnm tie said upper
falls to Mahoning, and at M lhoning.
5. At any place or places Irom the laid Ma
honingover to theHcHti ion of the riv£r
Cavahc'pa, and at the said Head Navigation.
6. At any placc or places from the said Head
Navigation to the month of the said rw'tt Cuya
hoga, and at the said mouth.
Jf. /\t (Uty -, 1 v - 'H places betwixt the
of the B»s Beaver Creefc, to the mouth of the
riv r Mnlkingum, and uo the said river to the
Tulcarowas, and at the Tufcaiowas, and thence
over to the Cavahoga river, and thence down the
said river to its mouth.
8 At any place or places betwixt.the mouth
of the river Mufkingum and the mouih ps the
Scioio river, and at the mouth of £Kc said river
Scioto.
g. At any place or places betwixt the mouth
of Scioto river Sc the mouth of the Great Miami,
at the month of the Great Miami, and llom
thence to the rnpids or the ialls of the Ohio, and
at the (aid rapids.
10. At any place of places betwixt tne mouth
of the Great Miami, up the said Miami to and
at P.que Town. J '
11. At any place or places Irom lortWafh
ington to Fort Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton.
At any place or places f 1 0111 F<>rr Haiiwltau 10
Fort St. Clair, aod at Fort St. Clair.
12. At auy place or places from hort St. Clair
t.o Fort Jefferfon, and at Fort J»ffcrfon.
13. At any place or oiacrs hrpm tort
to tne field ol a&i<»n of the 4th of November,
1701, andjfrtthe fqij field oS atiion.
iVt wy place or places from fffe TaiH*7lc 'J
of a&ion to the Miami Villages, and at the
Miami Villages.
15. Ac any place or places from thefaid Ms
ami Villages to the tails of the Miartij »iver,
which empties into Lake Erie, and at the said
falls, and from thence to its in»>uth, and at its
mouth.
16. At any place or places from the mouth of
the said Miami river of Lake Erie to Sanriufky
Lake, and at Sanduiky Lake.
17. At any place or places f rom the said San
dufky Lake, to the mouth of the 1 iver Cayanoga.
jB. At any place or places from ih> mhuth ot
the said river Cayahoga to Prefque Isle, and at
Prefque Isle.
19 At any place or places from Prefque Isle
to the Itream running into Lake Erie trorn to
wards the Jadaghque L«ik(, and thence over to
and at the said Jadaghquc Lake,and thence down
the Alleghany river to Fort Franklin.
20. At any place or places from Prefque Isle
to Le Beuf, and at Le Bcuf
21. At any place or places from Lc Beul io
Fori Franklin, and at Fort Franklin, and from
ihcnce to Piulburgh.
& — —. . t
22. At iny place or places frcun the rapidst
Ohio so ihe mouth of th'* Wiihafii i ivrr, atU*
from the ipoutb oJ the said Wdbafh liver to the
ipouth of the river Oho.
23 At any place or places on the Eafl fide of
the river Mifiifiippi, from the mouth of the- Ohio
river, to the mouth o{ the Illinois river.
24. At anv place or plates from the mouth o:
the f a d Wabafh liver up to Fort Knox, and ai
Fori Knox.
25. At any place or places From Fort Knox up
the id VVabalh to Ouittanon, and at Ouittanon.
26. Ar anv place or places from OuUta»»on,
tip the laid Wabafh, to the head navigation of a
branch thereof calk d Liftlc River, and at the
said head navigation of Little R^ver.
27. Ar anv pla eor placrs itoni the fald head
navigation ot Little River over to the Miami Vil
hgr.
28. At any place or places from the mouth ol
the river Tetu ITee to 0< eochappo 01 Bear Creek,
on the said river, inclufwely
29. At any placc or places from the mouth of
the river Cumber hud to Naihville, on the said
river, and at Nashville..
3©. And at any place or places within thirty
miici ol faui Nailiviiie to the Southward, West
ward or Northward thereof.
Should anv rations be required ar any places,
or wirhin other ciftn&s, not ("peered in
propofaU, the pr.ee of the fame to be heiwftcr
agiec.<l on betwixt the public and the contractor.
The be fuppticd are ;o consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of, bread or flour,
One pound of brcf, or £ of a pound of pork,
One quart qf fa}',
Mwo quarts of (
~ , . , > per too rations.
Iwo pounds or loap, ( 1
Oik pound ot candles, )
The rattouf are to be fui oifheel in such quanti
ties as that there frail at all times, during the laid
term, be fufficicm tor the confumptton of the
7, • 1793.
-■<-j ■ . 1 . .r^' s «. ■ •».-
troop! of ilie said poits, so- the space ot at
lea ft 3 months in advance, in good and whole
fume piovifions, if the fame IhuH be required.
It i> to be ur\rlerilood in each cafe,that all loiTcs
fu'llamed bv the depredations df the eneiriv, or by
means of the troopsof the Unwed Stat; s, fbaH be
paid for at the pi tees of the articK s c&pimt d 01
defttoyed, on the demolitions vf two or inoie
creditable characters, and the r.ci t tficate of a
commi fTic.ned officer, afccrtainin£ the circum-
Aaucesof 1 he losS, and the amount <>f ttic articles
tor which compcnlation is claimed.
The contract for the above fuppiws will be
made ciltu-r for one y< ar, or 'or two y<.«*s, a* m«jy
appear rfigtble. Pe»fou% disposed to conlraft
will therefore confine ilu-ir oIFom to our ve»»r. or
Lhcy ni'iy nuktf their propofiuom f* as to admit
an rl:ftion ofthe term of two \e^rs.
The offers n»jy corn priCe all the piaces which
have been fpecjfied, or a part of them ou'v.
War Department, ;
. ' 4"g»P t 793-
INFORMATION is hr»chy Rtveti u> ail %
Military Inval'ds of the United that
t he ftims '.o which are iiftitltd frti fix'iiifrnths
of ihci'r « unit a) r'romtb? day <*f
of September next, will be paid oh the laid
day V»y the Coninnrtioners of the with
in the Stales relpe6lively under the ufua-1 regu
lations.
By Command of tlif
President 0/ fir United States.
H. KNOX, Secretary ut War.
Treasury Department,
Attguft io, 1793.
NOTICE is herefty given, thac ' Proposals
will toe received at the Office of the Se
cretary of the Treafurv, until the i4*h day
ojf September next inctufively, to fuimfli by
contract the following a titles of Cloathing,
for the use of the Uiiited States, viz.
4 .800 Flats,
5, h2 r J Stock';,
5,12.0 Stock-CJafps,
2 Shirts,
5,12:> V.efts,
5,120 Cojit-,
9,600 Woollen Overalls,
9,600 Linen d'-tto,
of Sln e ,
9.6 0 0 i> ilng of Socks,
5,120 Blaftkets.
320 Caps,
320 pairs of Leather Breeches,
6 df Boots,
320 pairs of Spurs,
640 pairs of Stockings,
1.520 Rifle Shirts.
The clouthing to be delivered at the city
of Philadelphia ; one fourth pai rof thp whole
number of fnits on or before the 15th of Fe
bruary, one fourth on or before the 15th of
April, and the remaining half on or before
the 15th of June, 1794-
Tha a riclomuft be agreeably to such pat
terns as fliall he directed by the Secretary syr
the'Dopa ; tmeut ps War.. Pavmenf will be
in.i'ic a.s soon as the whole of the articles ftiatl
have been deliver-d. ' eptl^S.
To the Public.
r Editor of the Gazette of the United
I. StaTk.S,propofes publishing the Paper,
Hauler that Title, every Evening, Sunday's
excepted.
To render it interesting as a Daily Publi
cation, it shall contain foreign and domeftir,
commercial and political Intelligence Ei
fays and Observations, local and general :—
Maritime information .—Prices Current ot
Merchandize and the Public Funds. Also a
fu miliary of the proceedings of Cong re ft, and
of the L?gifliture of this Slate with a
{ketch of Co'igreffional Debates, &rc.
Advertizing favors will be gratefully re
ceived.
TERMS.
To be printed on paper of the demv lize ;
but a larger lize lhall be substituted in Decem
ber next.
The price Six Dollars per Annum, to he
paid half Yearly.
When a fuSicient number of Subscribers is
obtained, the Publication (hall commence.
In the interim, t ie Gazette will be pubii/h
---cd twice a week as ufua'.—Subscript ons arc
refpeftfully solicited by the Public's humble
ferrant,
JOHN FENNO
%T Subfi rtbtions are received at the ( ity 1 avert,
South Second Stieet—by Mr. Dobfin, at the Stone
Houfe —by other perjons who are in pojje/jton oj Sub
scription papers. 4'"d bv the JLdito?, at his houje,
No. 34, Monk bijth.Street.
THE £DIT 0 R
MOST eatne/iiy requejti those 0/ his dijlanl Sut.
firibers who are in arrears for the Ouzeltc % to wake
pjfmeat as far, as po/fti>le.-rTh,</e perjons who hate
receivedfabfeription money on his account are dejtred
to remit the fame. The arrearages jo' the Gazette
hive atcumu'ated to a furious amount —ierioas, as
they are He out) refouue to very fernus
engJiremnts incurred in tkepiofeculion of tins e>-
feijivepublication. Philadelphia, Juae ib.
529
70V/* fktfttO, No. ,34. NOP! H FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA.
FOR 7 til GAZ&rVE.
HELVIDIUS—Ko. 1 IK
IN order to give color to a l i&ht in the K*-
ecurive to exercise the Le illative power
r»: judging whether t-Jiere be a caute ot' war in
a public ftipulation—»-two oilieV arguments
are fubjoinecl by the writer to that iaft exa
mined.
The-fiWHs- (imply this, " It is tbe right
and duty &f the Executive to judge of and in
terpret those aifities of rtuf treaties which,'
gfve to Fr'aivce particular privileges, in iwitr t
to Ha ejthtjc pHwUgrs" frail Which]
it is stated as a eonlctjjuenre,'that?
the Executive has Certain other amoiigj
which is the ri"hi in qu'ellion.' . , i
This aigqmeii? i? apfwe'ed Ivy a vcty, ott
vioiis diftipftion, lT|be si. ft l ight is. efrentittj
ti> she execu'ion ol the treaty as «t-late in opy
interferes witb.no riglic (nw'eftci) ijnj
another Department. The fei oncl is net ef-j
fcntial to the txecutinn of the treaty or, .any.
other law; on the .contrary tl>s article
which the riftht is «a,oiiOt a,s has
been jhcwn, from the very #ature of it be in
oW' 'f«! as *-Uu* li'refe-j
of the XegSflarae ; and-- *11 ttx? Uws lo
be enforced by the Executive remain in the,
mean time precisely t'x- (aire, whatever bej
the disposition 01 judgment of the Executive,'
This J'ccond right wouM alio interfere with a;
right acknowledged to be in the Legislative
Department.
If nothing else could fugge# this diftintf inn
to tie writer, lie ought to have been reminded
of it by his own words k< in order to the en
forcement of those privi)eges''~was it in or
der to the er>/or cement of the article of guaranty,,
that the right is alcsibed to the Executive ?
The other of the two arguments i educes, it
felf into the flowing form : The Executive
h:ts the right to receive public Ministers; this
right includes the right of deciding, j.| the
cafe of i\ revolution, whether the new go
vernment fending the M'nifter, ought to be
recognized or not ; and this again, the right
to give or refufo operation to pre-cxltting
treaties.
The power of the Legiflaturi
v *r and judge of the causes for
one of tire ffioft express and explii
of the Conflituticn.
of tff'ctf it by ftraincrl inferences, a r
potuericar or lingular occurrence^naturally
warns the reader of" lorr.e 'inking fallacy.
The word > of the Constitution are " he (the
Prefide'nt) (hall receive Ambailadorr, other
public Ministers and Ct»t)fuls." I fliall not '
undertake to examine what would be the pie
cife extent and efiert of this fun£t on in various
cases which-famy may suggest, or which time
may produce. It will be more proper to ob
serve in g'-neral, and every car.did reader
wil) second the observation, that little if any
thing more was intended by the claule, than
to provide tor a part cular mrde of commu
nication,•*/»»«/// grown into a right among mo
dern nations ; by pointing out the depart
ment oftKf Government, inoflf proper tor the
ceremony of admitting public 1 Mi h i Iter s, of
examining their credentials, and of authenti
cating their title to the privileges anexed to
their cfi irafter bv the law of nations. This
being the apparent design of the Conilitution,
it would be highly improper to magnify the
function into an important prerogative, even
where no rights of otbsr departments could
be affecfted by it.
To (hew that the view here given of the
clause is not a new conitru<stion, invented or
(trained for a particular occaiiou—l will take
the liberty of recurring to the coteniporary
work already quoted, which contains the ob
vious and original gloss put on this part of the
Constitution by its friends ant! advocates.
4< The President is also to be authorised to
receive Arnbafladors and other public Minif
te•«. This, though it has bien a rich theme
of declamation, is more a matter of
than of authority. It is a circninflance, that
will be without confcqup.cc in the adminidratiou
of the government, and it is far more con
venient that it (hould be arranged in this
manner, than that there (hould be a necefliry
for convening the Legiflatu.e or one of its
branches upon every arrival of a foreign Min
ister, though it were merely to rake the plate
of a departed Fed. yo!. 11-p. 237.
'Had it been to e'told in the year I 7&S when
t'ais woik was publlhtd, that hifoie the end
ot the year i 793» y writer, aSuxnine the 1112-
Of being a frieAd to the Collitution, would
appear, and gravely maintain, that tbis
fdncttOn, which was to be uiihont cot! fjmnce
ih the adniiniftrat on of the goven.ujent,
might have the con sequence of deciding on
tho validity of revolutions in favor of liber
ty, *♦ of putting the United States in a con
dition to become an afiociate in war/' —
nay 44 of layjrg the LcgyLuure urder an obliga
tion oi'declaring war/' what wquid,have been
thought and fatd of so virion a >-y a prophet ?
The moderate opponents of the Constitu
tion xvould probably have dtfo*ntd his extra
vagance. By the advocates cf the Constitu
tion. his prediction must have been treated
as 44 an experiment on public crcduliry, die
Tp endeavor t«
!?o
[Whole No. 45.).]
• "**i • ' ■ '
by-a inieMtio© jo 'V
c£i vt, or by the q\ crfiawiiiff* of a zi'al torn iii
tcnipe rare to be Viifttrnttofis.* ' ■ '*• :
But how does ir follow from tHe -ftmAfon
to receive Ambs3adwis and .other piib; : c
MiiVinevs that lo fcohfequeuti?! a
may be exeni-ed by fix- £xe£bt've ? Nyhen a
foreign JVTtniller prefer ts himself, two mirf
tions tlTi»iircH«(tely ari*e : Are i is oedenci'd 3
* roin the-ex ifting; and afStaiifc poive:lUliflnt of
hi"? country ? Are tl.ey properly a.nthent cated ?
These bejongot ueceflity to the Ex
ecutive ; but they involve 110 cognizance of
the queiiid;}, whether those exercising the
government have tVie light along with she
polTtitioM Tim bel«M»gs >0 the nation,' and
to the nation alone, on whom the govern
ment operates. The qnsltions before the
Executive merely (jueltions of fad; ai d
the Executive wotifd have precileiy the fatse
rn*ht, or father be undpr fame neeeflHy
of deciding them, if its fun<sV:on was (imply
to receive without any difcrcticti to rejcci pubHc
It i". evident, » iei'-e't>-c, thatjF
the Executive has a right to reject a public
Minister it must he founded on (ome other
confiders»tion than a change n the government
or the ueWne 1 . • >fir n nt ; and ton.
right to rcfu'e to acknowledge a
n?sw government cannot be implied by the
rignt to refute a public Minilk r.
It is not denied that there may be ca r es in
which a refpeft to the general principles' of*
liberty, the eTentiai rights of the people, or
the over-ruling fcntimeiit* of hiundnitV,tifight
J'eqirie a government, whether new or o!d,
to be treated as an ; .llegitiina*-e tie -otifir..
Such are in facl cii 'culled and admitted by the
moil - approved authorities. But they are
great aj.d extraordinary cases, by no means
Submitted to so limited an organ of t!ie na
tional will as the Executive of the United
Stares; and certainly not to be b'oii !<f, by
any torture of wo# ds, within the right to le
ceive Ainbaiiadorj}.
That the authority of the Executive doe?
not extend to question. whether an exilting
government to be recognized or ncft,
w 11 it ill more clearly appeal from an ex nti
nation of the next infeience of tne-writer, to
wit, that the Executive has a rift'.t to gve or
refine a&ivity and operation to pre-jgxiftirig
trvSrie <f.
If the e be a principle that not to I-e
questioned within the Uuited States, it
that every nation has a right to aboliih an old
government and eftabliJh a new one. This
principle is not ojijy recorded in every public
archive, written in every American heart,
and scaled with the blood of a host of Ame
rican inarrvrs ; but is the only lawful tej;u i e
by which the United States hold tlieir exiit
ence as a nation.
It is a principle incorporated with t !- >e
above?, that govern merits a e eihiMiflicd for
the national good and arc organs of the na
tional will.
From these two principles results a third,
that featies formed by tfcic government, a*, e
treaties of the nation, unleis otherwiie ex
prefied i.rf the treaties.
Another roiifeqijenee is that a nation, by
the right of changing the organ of
its will, can neither disengage it ft If front the
obligations, not forfeit the benefits of ifs
treaties. This is a truth of vast importance,
and happily reus with fuftice.it firir.r.els on
its own authority. To silence or prevent ca
vil, I insert however, the following extracts ;
4% Since then iuch a treaty (a treary not per
-44 fonal to the fovereig") directly Teiates to
44 the body of the State, it fiibfntjs though the
44 form of the republic happens to be changed,
44 and though it fliould even transformed
44 into a monarchy-—For the State aid th«
44 nation are always the fame whatever r.-han
-4< ges are made in the t'oriu of the govern
-44 ment—and the treaty concluded with tie
44 nation, remains in force as long as the
t4 nation exists." Vattel, B. 11. § 185 —
44 It follows that as a treaty, in twithftand
-44 ing t!ie change of a democratic govern
-44 ment into a monarchy, continues in force
44 with the new King, in like manner ; it a
44 monarchy becomes a republic, the treaty
44 made with the King does not expire on
44 that accou.it, un'efs it was manifeftly per
-44 fonal." Uurlam. part IV, c. IX, § 16,
A; a change of government then makes no
change in rhe obligations or rights of the
party to a treaty, it is clcar that the Execu
tive can have i>o more right to fpfpend or
prevent tiie operation of a tieaty, on ;.ccount
of the change. than to suspend or prevent the
operation, where no such change has happen
ed. Nor can it have any more right to sus
pend the operation of a treaty in foice an a
law, than to suspend the operation of aay
other law. /To be continued.J
Tonr.agc of Vessels which hate been entered at thi
(. ujl wi' Hvu/e. port oj (./lar/ejion, in the months oj
j.
'i ->1 D >-»-
16.368
12
2,»47
Fnrsii'n vefffls
Amei ican d.i.
Licenl'ed do.
X«ni
3>,-63
r-Jfrv . - - tJmii /
Ct«.
°S
18
86
8184
771
11 j
9,066»v%v
Latest Foreign Advices,
Rit;rj:d pit tks Ship EHiit, Captain
Hdrvty,atr'weU j»rl. *
' ■' ■ ■ - ■ .
FROM THE LONDON GAZETTE,
Whitihiii, July 13. 1
THIS morning one of his Majes
ty's meflengeis arrived with a
difpatcb from Col. Sir James Mur
ray, Bart. Adjutant-General to the
forces under the command of his
Royal Highness the Duke of York,
to the Right Hon. Henry Dundas,
one of his Majesty's principal Secre
taries of State, of which the follow
.
ing is a cwpy.
" EjlrtuXy July 10, 1793.
"Si*,
" 1 HAVE the honour to acquaint
you, that the Governor of Conde has
thisd'ay consented to surrender that
place to the Imperial forces under
1 he command of t he Pi ince of Wir
temberg, by whom it has been block
ailed for fowe time past.
" The Auttrian troops are to be
put in immediate pofleflion of the
detached works, and of one of the
gates of the town (that leading to
Tournay). The garrison is to sur
render as prifoneis of war, and to
march out upon the 13th. The
othei article# of the capitulation ai e
not yet arranged.
" This is a conqpeft of the utmost
importance ; Conde being one ofjjte
llrongefl place* of this frontier, re
quiring but a small garrison forTtt
defence, commanding the naviga.
tion of the river Scheldt, and faci
litating any future operation.
" i have the honour to be,
With the gieatelt refpetft,
" Sir, your molt obedient,
" humble servant,
, " JA. MURRAY."
ESTREUX, July 10.
We havejuft now received intel
ligence that Conde surrendered by
capitulation, about one P. M. this
day. The whole garrison are made
prisoners of war—they amount to
between IS and 18 hundred inen fit
for service ; the reft are in thehof
pitals, where every assistance is now
giving them, as they were in abso
lute want of both provisions and
medicines. Thus has Conde fallen,
after standing a three months block
ade, at the commencement of which
the garrison amounted 10 4,000 men,
one half of *Vhom are now sick.—
The surrender of this town opens
to us the Scheldt, as tar as Valen
ciennes. It befidesaffords us a pro
per place for eltablifhing magazines,
and will enable us to lend a rein
forcement of troops to the army be
fore Valenciennes.
BARCELONA, June 9
Our fleet, confiding of 27 Ihips of
the line, and 7 frigates, entered
this port again, and put 011 shore
1200 Frenchmen, made prisoners in
the iflnnd of St. Peters & Antiocho;
alter which the fleet set fail again
for its further destination.
The Spanilh fleet, partly at sea
and partly ready for failing, con
fills of 8 ships of 112 guns, 1 of 94,
1 of 90, 3 of 84, 3 of B<J, 26 of 74,
2 of 68, 5 of 64, 4 of ;8, and 31
frigates of 34 guns—besides a great
number of other armed veflels, in
all 136 veflels, carrying 5,736 guns,
and 44.381 men.
This fleet was fitted out at Ferrol,
Cadiz, and Carthagena. The Chefs
4e Efcadrt belonging to it are Med'.
Lopez, Carrizofa, Moreus, Daciz,
Mugnos, Melinrejo, and Gravina.
TURIN
Extrafl of a Letter from the Combined
Army in the County of Nice.
June 26, 1 793.
" In official reports of the
anions between our troops ami the
French on the Sib and 12th instant,
the lofies were ellimated according
to the firft information. According
to a more exai r t review, it appears
that the loss on our fide was only
about 800 men, officers included,
while that of"the enemy amounts to
about 4000.
LOWER ELBE, July 5.
The ifirft fitting of the Diet at
Grodno was attended witli much
flrtfe and debate. But their figtt
irg of ihe iitlli iiuvem, for tbe itivj
si m of'ihe country, taken
place when the last inieUigencecam*;
away. In,fine, their aiiinii>fitifcsr»M
ta"fi«:1» » h4£ht', that the King yrtp'
at length obliged to prorogue
fittings till the 19th. •>.-
FRANKFORT, July 7.
Bournonville, the late French Mi
nister at War, with his Adjutanr,
and the four Commissioners of the
National Convention, with their
suite, who were confined prifon«rs
at Ehreubrieften, were brought hfc-'
ther in seven carriages the day be
fore yerterday, and set out yefter-*
day at 6 o'clock in the morning for
Egra in Bohemia.
HAVRE, June 29.
Vicc Admiral Truguei has written the follow
ing letter to the National Convention :
" Three months have palled, and F.urope,
astonished, asks what ha* become of the marine
and the teamen of France ? Our Levant trade is
nearly ruined ; the contagion of insubordina
tion inercafes, and" our enemies cruize on our
coails, and threaten us. How can we bear the
idea of even the momentary fupt riority ot the
Spaniards ?—What fliame for a Republican
heart, for a Fieneh sailor !
" Citizen Piefident, I ought to tell you the
truth: We have the moll imposing force, the
best fhipsin the world, excellent Teamen, who
burn with patriotism and courage ; but I know
not what lethargy prevents the execution of the
plans which I have proposed. An invisible
ariftocraGy maintains in our ports a criminal agi
tation, which difgraccs and rums us. Thunder.'
over the guilty. Discipline is the ficft law of
armies: the naval force of Toulon know n
It iiobediencc which ensures success
I am ready to die for my country ; but I would
die conqueror.
(Signed)
PARIS, July io.
The recruiting and levies of men to encoun
ter the armies of Eure and Calvados, are still
fubjeft to a thouTand difficulties. The FariHaus
fay, " We will not be butchered—what can we-,
an handful of men, do againll so many power
ful departments ? or why should we not em
brace them as friends and brothers ? We cannot
think of being thus dispatched ; let your com
miflioners supply our place, and carry with thetn
the olive-branch of negociation. 1 *
On the Bth instant, the committee of public
welfare of the National Convention, otherwise
called Marat's committee, was impeached in the
Jjcobin Club. Chabot said, there were but
three honest men in that committee, all Partizans
of the Mountain, viz. jeanbon St. Andre, St.
Just, and Couthon.
The council general of the commons insist on
the contingents being furnifhed by the [e£liona;
and their obstinacy may occasion serious dillur-
ban ces.
The departments advance their forces againA
the capital, and several other provinces join the
the league. That of La Manche is on the poifit
of declaring itfelf in a state of infurte&ion. The
townj of Carentan and St. Loo, have hgnificd
their "with to march to Paris.
At Coutance they talk of supporting the Mo
derates.
A focicty under the name of the Charabots(a
word fynonimous to that of Sans Culottes) has
been established. It consists of 700 members,
who all profefs the fame principles as the depart
ment of Calvados.
The waggons of the army on the coasts set off
from Caen this day, laden with bread & flower,
for the army of the departments at Evreux.
The forces of the department of Isle and Vi
laine put themselves on their march on the 6*h
instant. That of Port l'Orient has reached
Caen ; the central aflembly at Caen has publith
ed a proclamation, that their forces only go to
Paris to fraternize with the Parisians, and to ce
ment the tottering llatue of liberty.
The camp of Weiflenbourg was struck on the
3d instant, and removed to the distance of
leagues from Landau. The whole line is oit %
deep eminence, which commads the surrounding
plain. The army of the Rhine is to move thence
in a few days.
Municipality of Paris, July 3.
Eleven Sertions, either in a body,
or by a deputation,came to annoujite
to the Council their acceptance ps
the Couftii utional Acfl.
A Gendarme having arrived from
Vernon, announced, that the Citi
zens of Evereux were marching
against Paris with eight pieces of
cannon, and that they had already
seized on Pafly near Evreux.
A great many addrefles were repd
from different departments and po
pular societies, which adhered to
the condutft of the Parisians on the
31ft of May.
Jl ' v 4.
Extraff frotn the Regiftir »f thi
cil if the TempLc, July 3 — Halj-pgfl
nine u'dock at Might.
" We the Commiifionef's on diity
entered the apartmentof Maria An
toinette, to whom we notified the
vef'olution of »he Committee of Pub
lic Welfare of the National Conven
tion of the Ift of July. After many
entreaties, the widow of Capet final
ly resolved to deliver up to us fter
son, who has been conducted to the
apartment designed for faini by the
530
Council of
min ed iu >
vvim 'eceivcd tHySliArfU-,
served farther, that this fep:n aiion
\v;is affected with nil the fcnlibility
that could be expet'ted in I'ach a cir
cuinftance, in winch the Magistrates
of the People evinced all the indul
gence compatible with the leverity
of their functions."
July 5.
Deputies sent from the city of
Vernon, denounced theAdminiftra
tors of the department of Eure, and
e?cpofed the wretched si; uation of
Vernon, on account of the Counter
Revolutionary Army, which was
only two leagues from that city.
The following letter from Ver
non to the Convention was then
read :
" For three days the tocsin has
founded in the environs of this ciiy ;
by mere force we have set on foot
20.000 men ; but.they hare no can
non. Party, two leagues only from
Paris, is taken, and fclvreux marches
10,000 men."
i vjvwv iitv.il.
A member observed, that he was
surprised at the indifference of the
Parjfians at the bad news received
from La Vendee. "Then (said he)
the enemy were ar 60 or 80 leagues
from Paris; but at piefent, when
they are'at Vernon, 16 leagues only
from Paris, I ca:uiot conceive why
they fiiould be so tranquil. Will
you wait, Citizens, to fee thefmoke
of the enemy's camp upon the
heights of Paris, before you ami
and defend yourselves ?—lt was de
termined, that the Members of the
Council should lepair to their Sec
tions, to inform them of the details
given by the Deputies of Vernon,
and to invite the Citizens to take
efficacious measures. When they
were on the point of repairing to
their Sections, they were prevented
by the arrival of three Deputies ot
the Committee of Public Safety of
the Convention, who came to con
firm the disagreeable news from the
Department of Eure ; and to en
gage the Parisians to fly to the suc
cour of their brethren. They have
been led astray, said the Speaker, by
the manoeuvres of Buzot and of Pe
thton. We mod go to instruct
them, end open their eyes. 1 will
will repair to Evreux with my col
leagues—l am acquainted, and have
there the efteein of the public ; we
will speak, and remove their er
rors."
July 6.
A letter from the Commissioners
in the Temple, accompanied by a
certificate from the Surgeon and
Physician, dated, that the female
Citizen Tizon, the late keeper of
the Royal family, reqnired to be 1 e
moved to some private house for
medical affiltance. The Council
decreed, that Tizon should be con
veyed to the hospital called Hotel
Dieu, to be there taken care of at
the expence ofthe Commonalty.
" TRUGUET."
The, Council General then resolv
ed, that Simon and his wife ihould
remain with the son of Capet, and
receive the fame salary which was
granted to Tizon and his wife, in
the service of the late King, Louis
XVI.
The following extract of a letter
from Felix, National Cotnm iflioner
in La' Vendee, was read :
J»'y 3-
" T he representatives of thepeo-
Ele, Tallien, Richard, and Bodieu,
ave just formed a military commif
flop, which pronounces sentence of
death, without appeal or adjourn
ment, upon all military tranfgrel
fioirs, and upon the Emigrants, and
r«fra«siory priests, who fliall not
have submitted to the laws of trans
portation..
" S. July 5—3 o'clock A. M.
" This instant intelligence has
been transmitted to us, by a letter
from General Biron, announcing
that the Rebels have been complete
ly defeated about Ancenis; that
8000 of them were killed, 700 taken
prisoners, and 40 pieces of cannon
captured.
" Ceneral Menon just informs me,
that Nantz is in die bed Itare of
defence, and that the army of the
coafls is combined in
the best manner imaginable."
•II Simuii,
W'c ob-
July 7,
Silling of thd Jiuniitts, J*fj
G*ne< a) Cuftine was den >u •ced— ami a ler- 4 "
ter from Evreux, cf the kit o< July, Hated as ~
follows
" This city is in a ft ate of counter revolu
tion ; an army afTciubics within its walh—the
ftoriu roars—the explosion is at hand !"
A letter was read from Dijon, dated 27th
of June, in the following terms:
" Friends and brothers,found the tocjin—-we
fly to yonr relief; we will make a rampart
of our bodies to the authors of the iirfurrec
tion of the of May and 2d of June."
Caetar Raoaud, defender of oppressed patii
ots, wrote from Toulon the 27th of June,
that the city of Marseilles was in open revolt;
that this perfidious city was goirtg to cause to
be burnt, by the har.ds of the public executi
oner, the decrees of the Convfntirin ; that
the effigy of the last tyrant was fold publicly
at Versailles; where it was publicly decked
that Louis was affaflinated without being
heard. The aristocrats, who were in force,
said, that before they set out for Vend-c,
they would rid Paris of the Septembrileurs.
Many persons at the fame rime denounced
Cuftine ; they painted him as an atrocious
fellow, without morals, without principles,
and without talents; addicted to every,vice.
At length a member desired that this Nero
Ihould be guillotined.
The society of Chalons attested its attach
ment to the Mountain and the Jacobins.—
" This Mountain (fay they) has not been de
livered of a mouse, as the wicked pretended
it would, but of a good constitution."
National Convention, July 8
Letter from the Representatives of the People
with the Army on the fide of Brest.
NanU), J'lly 2.
" The reports which we have received,
prove that the plunderers have not yet eva
cuated the environs. They fire, from time to
time, red-hot bullets into the suburbs; but we
cannonade them vigorously."
Letr?r from the sam July 3.
" Citizens Colleagues,
" We had realon to inform you that the
robbers were yet near us. In fact, they have
(hewed tbe-nfrlves on the other fide of the
bridge. To-day we c" to meet them We
have obliged them to retire. We have niade
20 prisoners, and brought (bine cattle into the
city. This little action will not prevent as
from marching to Ancenis, to which place the
French army directs its march at prefeut."
Jul* 9'
. . y
Richard—" I also have news to communi
cate. Here is the Postscript of one of our
Commissioners with tbe Army of the North,
dated Crambray, July 7 " Valenciennes
made yesterday a terrible sortie, witich de
ilroyed all the enemy's works, and cod then*
1 a great many men, to such a degree that they
will no longer be able to take any position to
M attack the place."
LONDON, JfuJy
HPriie Albemarle is tbe (hip coming
P Bombay with corton, which
has been taken by the French, and
carried into Bourdeaax.
The Brussels Gazette informs, that
the 40 bombs, which were set 011 fire
by a (hot from Valenciennes, blew
up without wounding a flitgle man.
1c does not however tell us how
many were killed. When men are
killed they are never included iiv
the lift of the wounded.
July 19.
On the Jth inft. the National Convention
of France patted an ast of navigation, on a
principle fnnilar to that fron) which this coun
try has derived so many advantages.
The Duke of York bad, at the time of his
last dispatches, received accounts up to the
loth, and he was thereby informed, that M.
Qrfton, after his defeat by Wefterman, had
rallied and given him battle, in lyjoi.-
ed a signal victory, and had taken 12 pieces of
cannon.
Another embarkation of troops for
the continent is ordered to be forwarded with
all possible expedition
The petition from Glasgow against the war,
will be figtied by many tboufand names ; and
there is no doubt but the patriotism, the con
stitutional zeal and loyalty of every manufac
turing town throughout the three kingdom?:,
will express its opinions in the fame refpeft
ful, temperate, and manly way.
United States.
NORFOLK, August 28.
WE are authorised to inform the public,
that the buildings in the new Federal City
are rapidly advancing : the President's house
is built one story high; the Capitol and Hote)
are in a considerable state of forwardnefs, and
there are upwards of fifty houses finifhed, ,
among which are a number of capital brick .
buildings. There are upwards of 820 of.the
be&artifts and mechanics in fche iww <
employed in the conftru&ion of that city.
BOSTON, August 28.
In consequence of Communications from
the Prefideut of the United States, his Ex
cellency the Governor, on Monday last, or
dered a party from the garrison at Castle-
Island to take possession of the two prizes to
the Roland French-commiflioned privateer ;
which were yesterday brought to a wharf r
and stripped of their fails. The privateer,
we understand, is ordered to depart our port
immediately. This vigilant conduct of our
Executive, gives great fatisfaftion to his
fellow ci£iz?ns.
94rilitiic to fit PTvT'jSIDKN 1 •
VKOCi. A,VIAT ION oj NEUTRALITY.
Taunton, Majachufit's
At* Ml and relpeilable meeting ot the inna-
Wnnisof the lown ol Taunton, held on the
voth ot August, 1793—
A letter from the Hon. Thomas Ruilell, tlq.
was read, communicating certain rcfolutions
totered irtlo by the merchants and others of
B'mlon, retycfiing the lale Proclamation by Hie
Preliiient of the United Slates.
Whereupon it is voted,
THAT there is reason to fear, that many ill
ajlpofed peifons, hostile to our prcfont happy
eonftitution, are using every means to impede
and prevent the operaiion ot that conltitatii.n,
a nd tointtodnce.confo&on and difordcr, by irt
volvrig WWV a war ' , t ,
Voted,. fij»t meihhabuants of this (own feel
il to be ilieir duty to manifeft their attachment
totlif Constitution of ihe Urmed States, and
their aversion to those mcafures which would
lend to deprive them of that peace and security
they now enjoy.
It is therefore voted and 'resolved, That the
inhabitants of this town do regard ihi Procla
mation by the Preftdsflt of the United States,
declaring the ncuiiality of the United States in
the war which exists among fotne of the na
tions of Europe; and recommending a condu£l
friendly and impartial towards ali the bcllige
rant oowers, as a conftitntional and most wife
and well timed exertion of the authority vetted
in the firfl magistrate of the union.
Voted, That a copy be transmitted to the
Honourable Thomas RuflVll, Esq.
Attest, JAMES WILLIAMS, T. C.
Quinc'ey, Majjachufet's.
To the Hon. Thomas Russrl l, Esq. Chair
man of the committee of Merchants, See. at
Boston,
.. . Quinccy, Augull i9 ; h, i 793-
Sir,
THE fnbfcribers have the honor of jnform-
Irigyou, that they were appointed by tne town
of Qmncey,at tneii meeting on the 12th inft.
a committee, tor the purpose ot tranfmitiing to
the refpeftable commi'tee of meichants and
others concerned in trade, oi which you are
chairman, the feniiments and doings of that
town on the important maiteis contained in theif
revives pafiVd on the 22d of July last.
We have accordingly now the falisfattion of
informing your very refpe&able committee,
that at a legal meeting of the freeholders, and
other inhabitants of the town of Quincey, or
Monday the 12th day of Augtift, »793>
took into serious consideration the weighty anc
very interesting matters, contained in the re.
fo'ves of the merchants and others concerned ii
trade, residing in Bolton, by you ccmmunicat
ed ; and jt was their decided opinion, that ai
attentive conformity, among among all ranks o
cit zens, to the laws of neutrality, so prudent!
recommended by the President of the Unite
States, in his Proclamation ; will be promoti'
of our great, ft internal h.irmo.ty and pro'pei
tv, as a people : ?nd at the lame tune, prom
for us, as a nation, the grcittil refpettabili
abroad.
Whereupon, t)w sow« uwarJirwvjifU' voted th«
concurrcnce with the fo»emeruioned relolves, a
being in their opinion adapted lo promote ih
public good.
The'town at the fame time appointed a ft and
ing commutes of throe reloeSable si teholdei j
whose duty ii (hall be co make ft»i& inquirv
from time to nine, of any breach of the laws
of neutrality, that may happen within this
town, and to give information accordingly.
We have ihe honor to be, with very great re
fpc6i, your humble fcrvant*,
saist&fe. 5 »»■ 'j e««»
Med ford, Majfadiujltts.
A* a town-meeting legally <iffembied,at Med
ford, the following icfolutions were voted, tina
nimouflv.
Votedj That while we feel an ardent wifb for
the eftabl (hmcnt of the piincinles of rational
libeTty in France, and a deep regret at the inter
ference of omcr nations w'.h the interim ju
rifpfudfnee of the French people, we deem it
equally for the honor, the the faftry
of the 1 United SiJtcs, rt> obftrve a ftrift and ?Wi
paitfal neutrality in the "prefcrtt European war.
Voted, That the Ute Pioclamation ->f the
Prefidentof the United States, was the result of
a wife and jult ertimate of the obligations and
intereiisof :he American nation ; that it is hap
pilv calculated toroilram the avarice of indivi
dual'-— !o limit the extension of the miseries of
war, and tr> lernre to the people of the United
Sta'es, «he buffings of pcace.
Voted, That we fully concur in the fitnefs
and propiirty of the said Proclamation, we will,
to the utmost ot our powei, support the princi
ples of it.
Voted, That the above refoluiions (ball be
»ranfmmed to the Hon. Thomas RulTell, Esq.
*«ld publiftud in the Columbian CentineJ.
A true copy f»orn the records,
ANDREW HALL, TownXicrk.
Medford, Aog. ?6, 1793.
Princeton, New- JerJey.
AT a large and re<oe&?ble mertmg of the
inhabitants aird citizens of Princeton and us vi-
cinity, convened on the 27th of Aoguft »793»
irrconfrquencc ol a cncular le-ter from a coni
•vwtrr at rtic oi ttrt;»iwiik, bearing dace
t(he i6<hdayof this month, irq tie fling a meet
ing ot the citizens of the counties of Somerfel
and Middlelcx, to «.ake into confederation the
Proclamation of the President of the United
S'.atrs, wnh rrfpeft to the neutrality to be ob
feivru by the United States in the present war.
Mr. linos Kelfev, was appointed chairman,
and the following tefolutions were unaoimoufly
adopted :
jft. Kefolvcd, That the late Proclamation of
the Prefident-ot the United S'ates, recommend
ing a condu£l friendly and impartial towards
•11 the powers at wai, was in our opinion a wife,
legal, and well timed mcafureof his admimilra
tion, and met iu oui wannest appr»ba<ioo.
2<l. K?n>iv ■- Tni 1 it is 'he
ifitereft and citizens of tilts
ftatc, t«> fuppoit >H6n. utraiity and
peace mjoined by the prochmiation, and that
we will render tne magiftiates of our country,
our prompt and decided support to maintain
peace, and avoid the calamities of war.
3d. Resolved, That while we cheerfully Co
operate in the faithful performance <>f the trea
ties of the United Stales, we will cautiously a.
void every measure which will have a tendency
to interrupt thai happy tranquility and good or
der which pervades every part of our govern-
meat
4th. Resolved, That the inhabitants of this
town and neighbourhood, wiil with great cheer,
fulnefs, accept the invitation of our fellow citi
zens of New-B> unfwick, contained in their cir
cular letter ; and that the Rev. Doctor John
Witherfpoon, Enos Kdfey, a/id Richard Stock
ton, be a committee to attend at Nrw-Brunf
wick. on the 30th inft. to represent us at the said
meeting.
s : h. Resolved, That the said committee be,
and it is hereby au'horifed and inst r usted, to join
those citizens of the counties of So/nerfet and
M'ddlefex, who may meet at New-Brunf
wick, many resolutions which maybe thought
prophr to express our approbation of the fa id
proclamation—arid also to join in other resolu
tions expreflTive of the indignation we feel at
any foreign power or miniller, attempting to
interfere in the internal administration of the
government of the United States.
By order of the meeting,
ENOS KELSEY, Chairman.
Princeton, August 27. 1793
Lan- caster, P
AT a large and refpe&able meeting of the in
habitants of Lancaster county,at the court-house
in the boiough of Lancaster, for the pur pole of
taking in'.o confederation the propriety of ex
prcfling their sentiments of the proclamation of
the Prelident of the United States,exhorting and
warning the ciciz'-ns of the said dates to ob
feive a friendly and impartial conduct towards
the »ower», Src.
EDWARD HAND, Esq. in the Chair,
Matthias Barton
Resolved, That we conceive it to be our in
difpenfablc duty to express, at this period, our
sentiments refpe&ing the late proclamation of
the Prcfident of the Union, concern ng the neu
trality of the United States as t© the war carri
ed on between the Euroocan powers.
Resolved, That a ftrifl adherence to that neu
trality is of the litfV)oft confcquence to the true
interefls and happiness of the community at
large, and of this (tare in particular.
Resolved, That the proclamation of the Prc
fident of the United Slates, recommending a
friendly and impanial conduct towards the bel
ligerent powers, was a wife and prudential
measure ; that it reflctts additional luftrron his
chara&er, and demands our highest approba
tion.
Resolved, That we will use every effort in
our power to fuuportand maintain the laws and
dignity of thc.United*States, being firmly ner
fuacied that such ■ xcrtSons will eff-'Clually con
tribute to the welfare of every individual.
Resolved, That it <s essential to the interest
sffjl tntpprirrfs of rtoe people of \he United
Slates that the fo.vereigntv of the Union be pre
served inviolate ; and that every measure tend
ing to support the fame ftiall "meet with our
warmest conc.urcncc ; and that no foreign in
fluence on our public councils ought to be coun
tenanced.
tenaneed,
Rcfolved, That'the foregoing refolutiom be
publiihed in the public papers.
By order of the meeting,
EDWARD HAND, Chairman.
MATHIAS BARTON, Secretary.
Lancaster, August 29th, 1793.
Philadelphia, Sept. 7.
Havre tie Grace, June 23, 1793*
Mr. Claypoole,
six,
BY the last opportunity, 1 informed
you that the Convention had raani
fefted a perfefit disposition to adhere to
the treaty of 78. Since, they have re
pealed that decree, and Amei ican veflels
loaded on account of an enemy, are liable*
to be brought in to France.
Please make this public, and oblige,
Sir, your very
Obedient Servant,
The above was received by the Mary,
Capt. Gruel, arrived at N. York, on
Wednesday last.—And by which we hear
that the Brig Salome failed from Havre
for Philadelphia, on the ift of July, full
of paffengtrs.
The following articles of Intelligence are pub
lijhed in French in Loudon's NeHf-Tori
Diary
Two vefltls arrived from France in 33 days have
brought Paris News to the Bth July,
At this period the National Convention had
compleated the Constitution, decreed a meeting
of a new National Convention on the firft of
September, and enjoined the Executive Council
to continue the war with the greatest vigour;
to fuffer no part of the force of the Republic to
remain inactive, and to hear of no preposition
for peace on the part of their enemies before
the firft of September. All the French citizens
concurred with cnthufiafm in the execution of
this law. The recruiting for the army went on
as well as could be desired, and the sailors
crouded from all ;>arts on board the (hips of the
FROM THE MAIL,
T. W. G
News from France.
531
Republic to support the honor of thfcir flag.
Commerce by fr.a was suspended, and almo ft all
the merchant Ydfds arc converted into priva
teers; the prices which they take are innumera
ble, and have filled their ports with abundance
of property. Their frigates were frequently
engaged at the beginning of the campaign, in
which the French manners have ihevvn the
greatest bravery in the different a&ions. Their
enemies have done juilice to their valour,but af
fedt to believe that the fleet has not been fuffi
ciently exercised to acquire that knowledge of
naval tallies, which {hall render them a match
for that of the enemy—Events have proved the
contrary. The divisions of Brest and Rochefort
being united to the number of 27 fail of the line
have compleatly beaten the fleets of England
and Holland. —Meantime the fleet from Tou
bate froftrated the deiigns of the Spaniards
on ths£r coall and against Corsica.
Our armies by land have been equally fuccef
ful ; the Austrians have quitted Valenciennes,
being obliged to raise the siege, after a great
many vigorous forties, in which we are allured
they lost above 10,000 men, and their general
the Prince de Cobourg.. The siege of Lille is
likewise raised.
The army of the Royalists in Britanny is en
tirelo defented, and they hope that Bernard La
rigny, who commanded it, will soon fall into
the hands of the Republicans, who will not fail
to shave hint with the national Razor.
The publishers of the foregoing articles, call
themfelvcs " the sincere friends of Liberty, good
and faithful Frenchmen, associated to publilh in
telligence, in which they will always speak the
truth, whether agreeable or other wife— for they
are not falfe friends who disguise their thoughts,
nor are they falfe patriots who flatter their fel
low citizens to gain their Confidence.'*
[// will be noticed, by the reader, that the above ac
counts are Jaid to be J r om Paris papers to the Bth
— The accounts by the ( apt. Harvey, are
ta the igth Jul)) from London—and to the roth
froJk VM'nciennes y when the siege mas JUNgaing
An exprcjs at fined Turf day at the IVar-Ojfice, from
the Commijioners Jor treating with the Indians
North of the Ohio.
We learu that they were not able even to
eflfeft a meeting with the body of the hostile
Indians who were afleinbled at the Rapids of
the Miami River which runs into Lake Erie.
The Indians by deputation in fitted upon
the O'lio as the boundary between them and
the. United States. But as so extensive a
conceflion was inadmillible, and no relaxation
of this demand being indicated, the Com
mifljoners, who had been waiting at the mouth
of Detroit River from the 2lft of July, left
rhi;t place on the 17th of August, and arrived
at Fort Erie on the 23d of the fame month.
The tribes determined for war, are the
Wyindots, Delawares, Shawanefe, and Mi
amis ; although it is understood, that a con.
iiderable portion even of those were fur
peace.
It is also understood that the fix natic
eluding Capt. Brant, and his Moha'
ft • fcng'ly urged tiie hostile Indians to
peace.
Thursday last the Legislature of this State
adjourned, fine die.
The trial of the Impeachnientof the Comp
troller General is poltponed to the next
fellion.
Citizen Genet, minister of the French Re
public, published a proclamation last Tues
day, dated August 28, in consequence of the
-minfed state of the French fleet now in
New York, by which the unarmed officers
and men on board of the Jupiter are ordered
to lodgings on fliore, which are to be paid for
by the Minister, and that all those who will
not re enter, shall receive an exact account
of what is due; that Citizen Vrefen take
charge of Paid foipi and of Gen. Galbaud, and
that he choose 2 officers, 4-~> Tailors, and 6
fotdiers, who ihall remain under his orders to
guard the ship.
Sunday morning last arrived at New-York,
InS'auchored in the North river, abreast the
Jup'Mr, 74, the privateer sloop Carmagnole,
one of the prol'cribed.
Same day failed the French Sloop of war
Favorite, on a cruise.
Last Saturday the Britifli brig Chilcomb,
Capt. Kavanifh, which was taken by the pri
vateer Carmagnole, was delivered up to her
former owners, as being an unlawful prize,
agreeably to the President of the United
States' late inftruftioiu.
The British fleet under Lord Howe, was
lying at anchor in Torbay, on the 23d July.—
Sevetal (hips of the line, and fiigates were
lying at the Nore, and iu the Downs.
Ext raft of a letter from a Merchant of London, dated
17th of July lajl, to a gentleman in New- York.
" I mud refer you to the papers for public
news, and only tell you, that it is the prevail
ing opinion here, that an honorable prace is
near at hand. We have had no failures of
confoquence for some time past, and I think
the want of money and confidence to subside.
Your friends are getting up—l can with great
truth alfure you, our government and the
pußKicin genera] ftisw every disposition to
cultivate harmony with your States, and I
sincerely hope, that the rage for privateering
may not interfere."
ExtraS of a letter Jrom Hifpamola July 31,1796.
" The blacks and mulattoes continue in
arras, and ast in concert with the white
troops under the command of the Commit!"-,
aries who at piefent govern the Cape ; but
you may fudge of the strength or permanen
cy of the government when you are infomied
that by far the greater parr of the people in
arras are the negroes from tiie plantations
who made the firft infurreftion—and these
a-e now emancipated. The firft Officers at
t'ie Cape, and many other places, next to che
Commiifaiies arc mulattocs; <lhite people
a r e go n3 out of fa.liioi', and the black ai d
brown are in vogue.—We may therefore con
clude from the conduct of the Cornmilfaries,
and the complexion of the prelent rulers
(though the Commiifaiies are bat cyphers)
that the Island will contmue under a black
government. The white troops, mulattoes
and negroes at the Cape, and the mountain
negroes are no more at enmity, their cause
has become one—the found of imcrty »s
echoed every part of the Island.—
The situation of the virtuous Frenchmen
here is truly lamentable—and must force a
tear from every good American, who knows
not only the value of Liberty, but of a good
government to protest it."
The Governor's Speech, at the opening tiie
feflion of the Legislature of tuis Common
wealth, contained, among many othar arti
cles, a particular detail of executive proceed,
ings during the recess, relative to the procla
mation of neutrality by the Prelident of the
United States.
The following is the Aufwer of the House
of Representatives :—
To THOMAS MfFFLltf
Governortj the Commonwealth oj Pemfylvaniu.
TO the citizens of Pennfylvauia, whose
agriculture and commerce are the chief sour
ces of their public and private prufperity, the
necessity of prefer ving towards the belligerent
nations of Europe a system of the pnreft neu
tral tv, mill} be as obvious as it is important.
A ftri(st adherence to the treaties connect
ing us with fame, and an exist oblervance of
those duties, which by the laws and customs of
nations, we owe toall the contending parties,
can alone, in our opinion, at once prefervs
our neutrality, and maintain the dignity of
our government—che steps taken by the exe-
tlje Union ill this critical junftuie,
been grounded on thole prin-
not only our sincere and
unanimous approbation, bur, unless we are
deceived, in their sentiments, we speak Hie
aim ill universal voice of our condiments.
Influenced by thafrfentiments, we are hap
py to find, that oil several occasions, which
have recently occuried, you have with equal
promptitude and finnnefs,feconded the efforts
ofthe general government,in repressing every
infringement ofthe rights of neutrality ; nor
can we avoid expressing our confidence, that
a perseverance in that line of conduct which
has hitherto been purfucd, will continue to us
the friendlhip of Europe, and secure to our
country the bleflings of peace.
Having already experienced the calamities
peculiarly incident to the progress of savage
warfare, we cannot fufficiently deprecate the
continuance or renewal of them ; but flii,uld
the endeavors made on behalf of the United
States to conciliate the hostile Indians, prove
unfuccefsful, we doubt not, that every just
and necessary exertion will I>e made by Penn
sylvania to aid the operation of the general
government, and afford effe&ual prote&ion to
her own citizens.
Signed by order of the House,
GERARDUS WYNKOOP, Speaker.
From the Baltimore Daily Repository
THE late attempts to misrepresent the sense
of the people, on certain important poliiicai
fubjefts, fiirnifh matter for much lenous reflec
tion. Shbrtly alter the appearance of the pro
clamation declaring the neutrality of the Unijed
States, it was boldly aflerted, that the President
had no right to ilTue it, and that he had milia
ken his duty, the sense of the treaties, and the
intered of the United States. When the mer
chants of -forne towns addrefled him, approbat
ing the declared neutrality, it was (aid they
were only a few tories, British merchants, and
court sycophants : And now ihat addreHes and
resolutions can no longer bear such a com
ment, endeavors are not wanting to pet fuade the
people, that it comports more with their duty
to be Client.
Mr. Fenno,
SOME personS have exprefled their sur
prize and indignation, at the stinking rhymes
which appeared in the National Gazette ot"
last Wednesday.
But why express the least surprize ?
It is in courje such fumes arise ;
The fund an endless source supplies !
The " Nation's Gazette" is a fink—
Whose atmosphere, as quick as wink,
Reminds you there's no time to think.
To Correfpondcnts.
"Alfred," in our next— Helvidius, and the
French Conjlitution, occasion the pojlponement.
The interejling proceedings of the citizens of all
the towns and townships in the counties oj Middlefcx
and Sorter set % Slate of New-Jet fey, tuere not re
ceived in Jeafon for the lofl Gazette—and are necef
faril) omitted till our next.
Several other favors shall be published as soon as
possible.
(J3" For the new French Constitution, fee
the last page.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT
Ship Holland, Litten, Amfterdara
Clermont, Whippey, Hull
Schooner Industry, Breen, N< York
About 4 weeks ago, in lat. 43. long. 40. Capt.
Litten spoke the Biitifh Packet, Queen Char
lottc, bound to New-York, out 4 weclu.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents,
3 per C rnt«,
Deferred,
Full Qiires Bank U. S.
>*/4
»°/3
7 per cent, ad*nm r:rt
NEW CONSTITUTION
FRANCE.
Dtc • i id ly tie Nation a I Cox v t xtion
[Concluded, from our tajl.]
Ofth; National Rtprrfwtathn.
27. Is cafe of equal votes, the eldest is
preferred, either to be voted f<>r or elect
ed. In cafe of equal age, cliand de
cides.
28. Every Frenchman, exercising the
rights of a citizen in any republic is eligi
ble.
j<), lyich dpjijity belongs to the whole
nation.
30. In cafe of reftifal to accept, re
signation, 01 death of a deputy, the pri
mary affeiiblics who had nominated nisi
replace him.
31. A deputy who has resigned cannot
quit his poll hefore his fuccefior is ready
to enter upon the duties of h s appoint-
ment.
32. The French people assemble every
year, on the tirtl Tuesday, to proceed to
their eleCliitu.
33. ''They proc?«d to ti>e tle&ion
whatever be the nurabei of citizens, hav
ing a riglit to vote at it, assembled.
24. A primary aflinibly may be extra
ordinarily <*onvok«d, upon the rcquifitjon
of a fifth of the citizens having a right to
vof.e at it.
3The convocation, in this cafe, is
made by the municipality of the
place of meeting. <^HV
36. Those extraordinary aMroliea
deliberate only in cafe a majority, more
than one, of the citizens having a right
to vote in them, be present.
Of ekSaral ajfembltcs.
37. The citizens in primary afTemblies
name an elettor, one for every 200 citi
zens, counting present and jbfent; two
from 201 to 400; three from 401 to
600.
38. The holding of elfftoral assem
blies and the mode of electing is the fame
.as in the primary assemblies.
Of the leftflaliw leJv.
39. The legislative body is one, indi
visible and permanent.
40. The fefliiin is of one year.
41.' The legislators meet 011 the ill of
July.
42. A majority is a quotum.
43, The deputies can be quetlioned,
accused pr judged, at no time fr»r opini
ons expreflcd fiom their feats in the legis-
la turf.
44- They may for criminal actions,
be taken in the fact, but the warrant to
arrest and to cause to appeal, can only
be ifTned againlt them by the legislature.
«< /• .« <• I r •/T • '
Tbe J: t tings of the Legiflali-e body.
45. Tlie fitting i>f the National Af
fetnbly shall he public.
<6. Its journals (ball be piinted.
47. It (ball not delibeiate, unlels it be
compofcd of ai lcalt, two hundred mem
bers.
48-. It (hall not refufe arty member the
right of speaking, in the order in which
he has demanded it.
49- It (hall decide by the Volte of the
_ majority of those present.
50. Fifty (hall have the light of cal
ling for the yeas and nays.
51. The assembly ftiall have the rightof
censuring the condu& of its member# du
ring its mittings.
J 2. The afieinbly (hall pofiefs the im
mediate jm ifdlftion nf the placc in which
it holds its ft (Hons, and of inch an extent
in the neigl.tx.uihood as it (hall itfclf de-
ternune.
Of ihr fttrifficns o f the legjlat'ive body.
53. The legislative body fliail tnadl
laws and pass decrees.
54. Under the gcneial name of livvs
arecomprifed such adts of the Icgiflaiive
body, as concern civil or criminal legisla
tion.
The general adminiftrarion of the re
venues, and of the ordinary expenditures
of the republic.
The national domains,
The Ihrndaid, the weight, the imprefii
-011 and denomination ot money.
The nature, the amount and tiue col
lection of the taxes.
The declaration of war.
Any new diltribution of the French
territory.
Public inftruftlon, and the public ho
nors paid to the memory of great men.
55- Under the particular title of de
crees, are comprehended such aits as re
late to
The annu.-.l (Jnwnt of tlie fore ea
of the Republic, by i.ra atid land.
The- pcrmiifion or retufal o! tin- pa!Wi»e
of foreign troops thro'the F;e»c;i le«ii
tory.
The iutrndudlioo of fottign naval for
ces into the French ports.
Meafutes for the general fafety and
tranquillity.
The annual and temporary distribution
of the public labor and public contribu
tions.
Oiders for the emission of rtioney of all
kinds:
Extraordinary and contingent expend*,
tures.
Measures which are IOC3I or confined
to one pa. ticuVar department, communi
ty, or particular kind of public works.
The defence of the country.
The ratification of treaties.
The nomination and depolition of the
commanders in chief of the armies.
The trial of the members of council and
public funclionarits.
The accusation of thole fufpefted of
>lots agaiuft the general i'afeiy of the re
jublic.
Every partial change in the diftiibuti
on of the French territory.
National rewards.
Of the formation of a Law.
56. All bills proposed to Le ena&ed
into laws fnall be preceded by a report.
57. The difcuflion of the law shall not
be opened, and it (hall not be provision
ally ena&ed, until 15 days after the re
port.
58- Th*biH is printed and fcrvt to all
the Communes under the title of, proposed
latu.
59. Forty days after the proposed law
isfent—if in the majoiity of the depait
ments, the tenth part of the primary af
fembliesof each, has not objected, the
plan is deemed accepted and becomes a
law.
60. If objections are made, tlie legis
lative body convene the primary afll-m
---blies. S
Of the tit!: of laws and decreet.
61. All laws, decrees, judgements,
and oilier public a£ts, fliall be entitled—
" In the name of the French people, the
veat of the French Republic."
Of tie Exciuiiie Council.
62. There lTiall be an executive coun
cil composed of 24 members,
63. JCJie electoral affrmbly of each de
partment names one candidate—tii.e legis
lative body chooses from the lilt the mem
bers cf the council.
64- One half of the council is renew
ed by every legiflatuie durinjj the lafl
months of its session.
65. The council is charged ' with the
direction and fupeiintendance of the ge
neral administration of the Republic. It
cannot ast but in execution of the laws
and decrees of the legislative body.
66. It (hall name, from its own body,
the principal agents of the several depig
ments of the republic.
67. The legislative body fliall prescribe
the number and functions of these agents.
68. These agents do not form a coun
cil. They lhall befeparate, without any
immediate connection between thetta.—
They 'hall not exercise any peifonal au
thoi ity.
69. Tile council (hall appoint from its
own body the exterior agents of the re
public.
70. It fiiall negotiate treaties.
71. The membeis of the council, if
guilty of trcafon lhall be accused by the
legislature.
72. The council lhall be refpontVble
fur any failure in the execution of the
law 3 and decrees, and for all those abuses
which it (hall not denounce.
73. It (hall depose and replace the pub
lic agents whenever it (hall think proper.
74. It is bound to accuse them before
the judicial tribunals whenever there be
occasion.
Of iht relation of the Executive Council to
the Legislature
75. The executive council (hall te
(ide near the legislature—it (hall hiiJe a
separate chamber and a separate cntiancc,
into the place of its meetings.
76. It ftiall be heard as often as it
(hall have any report to make.
77. The legUlative body, may call
for tiie presence of the executive council
at its fittings, either in tiie , whole or in
part, whenever ir (hall judge proper.
Of the /Lhuinijlrati-oe anil Municipal Bodies.
78. There (hail be in every commune
of uie republic a municipal admiaiftiati
on.
532
I 1 tvevy di
niitra:u!!i.
In every department a ceutui admiui-
(liatiun.
79. The municipal officer* (hall be
eic£ted Uy the'afTWiiblies of the commune.
80. ifhe adtniniftratprs (hail be
pointed by the cleAoral afleiriblie* of the
department and of the diltriit.
81. The municipalities and the admi
niiiiation» (hall be renewed by one half,
every year.
82. The administrators and municipal
officers have no reprefelitative charaftets
—they cannot in any cafe, modify lliv
a&s of the legislature nftr fulpend the ex-'
ecution of them.
83. The (lull prescribe the
functions of the municipal utikers and ad
miniilratDrs, the rules of their subordin
ation anJ the penalties which they may
incur,
84. The aflcnrblies of the municipali
ties and the adminiltrators (hall be public.
Of Civil JuJlia.
85. The code of civil and criminal law
(hall be uniform throughout the republic.
86. The right which the citizens have
of terminating their difpotes by arbitra
tors chafe n by thcmiclvcs, lhall not be
infringed.
87. The decision oF thefjr arbitrators
ifhall be definitive, unless the parties have
relerved the right-os appeal.
88. There shall be jnftices of the peace
clefteJ by the people in canton:., the li
mits of which (hall be fined by law.
89. They (hall accommodate differen
ces and JiiVminitter' jiffticr without colt.
90. Their number and their qualifica
tions {hall be regulated by the legifhture.
91. There (hall be public arbitrators
appointed by the ele&oial alTetnbiies
92. Their number and the diftiicls i:i
which they (h.ill exercile their authority
fliall be determined by the lcjjiflature.
93. They (hall tak.ecogfiizar.ce ot dif
pntes which have not been finally detet
nnned by private arbitrators, or by the
justices of the pe-ace.
9-j.. They (hall decide in public. They
dial) give their opinion openly. They
(hall determine in the denser resort, ei
ther upon verbal defence* or upon a lim
ple memorial, without pics-lia-j, . and
without colts. They (hall give ti.e rea
fop* of their decisions.
95. The justices of the peace, an.', tie
public arbitrators (hall be elected every
year.
Of Criminal Jvjlice.
9Ct. In a criminal purpose no citizen
can be tried except upon an accufvition,
liy ;i jury, or decreed by the legislature
I'r.e accused (hall have counsel particu
larly nominated for them or there (hall be
publie officers appointed to defend them.
-.XliS-.accufa.tion (hall be. public. Both
the fact and the intention ftuill be deter
miiie'd by a jury. The penalty (hall be
applied by a criminal tribunal.
97: The criminal judges ihall be elecl
ed every year by the electoral aflemblies.
Of the Tribunal of Firal Ajijyeal.
90. There is for the Republic but
ope tribunal of final appeal.
99. This tribunal does not take cog
nisance of the nieiitsof a cuiife. It pro
noutices only upon violations in the foims,
and on the evident deviations from the law.
:00. The member's of this tribunal
are appointed every year by the eledtoral
ailuublics.
101. No citizen is'diipenfed from the
honourable obligation of contributing to
support the burden of the public expen
diture.
Of the Natitmql Tre<fury
102. The national trcaiury is the
cet-Uial point of the receipts and expendi
tures of the republic.
103. It is superintended by refponft
ble agents appointed by the executive
council.
104. The conduct of these agents, is
inspected by coiTniuffioncrs appointed by
the legifl.tture, taken from among the
mass of citizens, and refponfib'e foi such
abuses as they do riot denounce.
105. The accounts of the agents of
the national treafuiy and of the admini
(tratois of public money are annually
rendered to responsible comtniffioners
named by the executive council.
»c 6. Thi proceedings of these agents
are infpetied by commifiiouers appointed
by the legislature from among the mr.fs of
citizens, and lcfponlible for fucli abuses,
and errors as they do not denounce. The
body fiually fettles accounts.
TTiu- sdn::-
Of Public Contribution.
Of Accounts.
Forces (f th' Rc^uTx,
toy. Vise jjvnei-ii force or' t.ier.pulj
lie « luiilla ul the whole people.
JOB. I i>c 1 ejj.ut>ii!; hilt iiinl.er pav
time of peace, an <k nied force by fe.» and'
land. • ;
109. All Frenchmen are fo.'dieic
/thty are all ejercifed in the mauagcntcui.
of arms.
no. There is no commander iu
chief.
il l. The difference between
th eir dittititniilhinjf murk* anil ftlSor Jin;i
tirin only luf flit in relation to and d tin tig
a£fu«l lervict.
112. Ihe puliiß: force employ, d (,-)
maintain order arid internal pct.eonlv arts
upon thenipiifirion, in writing ot the con
stituted authorities.
113. The public force when employed
againlt external enemies arts under thtdi
redlion of the executive council.
114. No armed body deliberate.
Of Nutiona! Convention.
115. If in a majority of the depart
menrs, one tenth of the primary afTciiiblii-s
reguldily formed of each, call for a revi
sion ofth c conllitutional ast, or an altera
tion of any of ttß articles, the
body convoke the piimaiy afletpblies of
the Republic, to determiwe whether there
lhall be a National Convention.
116. The National' Convention is for
med in the iaine manukas the lejji(ldtive, l
and can exercifc legislative powers.
117. As far as relates to the confli
tution, the Convention confine their de
liberations to the articles the <iefetts of
which caused their convocation.
Of the relation bstveen the Republic and Form
eign Nalimii,
1 18. The French peoplearethe friend#
and natural allies of all free nation?.
119. Tlrey do not meddle with the go
vernment of other nations. They do not
fuller other nations to meddle with theirs.
120. They hold out an asylum to for
eigners banished from their country for
their love of liberty. They rxlufe an as
ylum to tyrants.
121. They will not make peace with
nn enemy that occupies part of the terri
tory cf'the republic.
rt a guarantee of Rights
122. The conltitution guarantees to e-
I -very Frenchman equality, libei ly, fecnriiy
Land property, the public debt, the free ex-
E*:i c:fe of religious worship, an education,
"public succours, the indefinite liberty of
tiie prets, the rijrht of petitioning, the
right of aflembljng in popular f>cietie3,
the eijoynent of all the Rights of Man.
123. The French Republic hojiourj
patriotism, coinage, old age. filial piety,
the unfortunate. They repofeihe sacred
depoiit of the conftitutioQ under the fafe
gnard of all the virtues.
124. The declaration of rights and the
conftithlional adl is engtaved on tables,
in the centtc of the legislative lial!, and on
all public squares.
( Signed)
COLLOT D'HERBOIS, Pa-fident.
Dukano, Maillane,"*s
Dueos, MeaulieY „
r , T . > bccrctariss.
Cti. De la Croix, (
Gossuin, Laloy, j
ADVERT fSEMENT.
N'ew-Jersey, ) T) Y virme of a Vvnt in ine
SuJJex {vuMfy. ff. £ JL> directed, iffiu tl out or
the High Couit of Chancery of N<-w-Jei fey, at
the fut of William Shipley againlt John M;n£
ando'hers; I (hall oxpofc to laic ai Public Ven
due, on the iixth day of February next, between
the horns ol Twelve and Five in the AfUrrv on
of the faint day, on the Prcmifes, the following
described Tratt ot Lm(i, with i'.s&pporic naoa-4,
situate in the Townlt\io of Oxiord and County
jcrtSuff -x, beginning at a CSic{mu r Oak Tree, c >r
ii! rof Djiik 1 Cox'i land, and ibmdlng in the
I'nr of a former furvty mane 10 Thoman Sieven
fon, being marked with the letter B. and thence
extending along Coxe?s line (fit ft) south fifty de
grees well ft I; v-five chains ana fcvcniy- five link/,
to a Uifeck-Oak Tree com<*r oi Jpfcph S tiopen's
land (fVcotwi) south nine d(\jy<<s and fifteen mi
nutes, wfft ninety chains and fixty-five links 10
a forked White-Oak Tree, tnaiked with the let
ters R and B another of t l»e fa id Shippen's cor
ners (thiTd) thence norih eighty degrees, east one
hundred and forty-five chain#, to a post on the
southerly of Paquaoft -P iver, being also «t
Corner of* Jf'hn Reading's land (foutth) thence
north thirty-nine degrees w ft, one hundred
and thi>ty-two chains t<> the place of beginning,
containing nine hundred and thirty acres wilb
the usual allowance for loads and high ways-—
The fame Pemifcs ate within eight miles of the
River Delaware, and there is therton a convenii
ent Grill Mill with two pair of Stones—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a <n flic tent ft icam 06
water tor their ule—a Dwelling Houle, Stoio
House, ond leveral (malt building*.
MARK THOMPSON, Sheriff,
Dated 2?. d day of July, 1793
TICKETS
In ihc FEDERAL CITY LOT! LRY,
M ■> be liad at SAMUEL COOPERS Ferry.
»