A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS K% }OHM F&NNO, No. 34 , NofiTH FUT Hh t RtlL J, "pH iL A Dt. L PHIA
[Kfo. 108 of Vol. IV.]
FOR SALE,
1560 Acres txc:lit nt
ran ming or tobacco
LANDS,
T YfltfG in the county of AmheVft, in the
of Virginia, 011 orte ql the principal
Wa aches of James -River j within fin miles of
tin latter, from whence it is navigable tor boats
oi ten or fweiVe ton'i burthen.
Belidevthe advantage? of lands, tor the
former or cultivator of tobacco, flicy are sup.-
posed, from a (mall though fu.ceGful expci 1-
meot made by the htr OoJ. Clnfwell, to contain
an attendance of metals, whi.-ft, U not of a fr£-
cioas [as Has been rffen foopofeA) a'Vrcevtainly of
a vety valuable kind. Tht better however to
afderwin thi* fatf, and' place the purchafet S*n b
late footing, in lb hazardous d bufmefs, as aii
thote fubierrl'cieous refearcht*, without (fie Aim
in oft certainty of an abundance of the d» fit erf
©re, are supposed to fa<", ev£ry' reafonablc a.jd
rieccflary afliftance or indulgence will bfe ren
dered those inclined to make the exo« 1 imcni * a*
well as every other information given
by the printer of thu Gazette in Philadelphia, or
JOHN NICHOLAS.
ChajlotteJiilU, Virginia.
This day is publij
WATHEW CAREY,
No. i xB, Markct-ftrcet, Philadelphia,
No. V. ot
Guthrie's Geography,
IMPROVED,
The terms of Subfcripcioii may be feeri in the
proposals at laige.
THIS valuable work will coniain (eticlujive
oj the maps in the London edition of 1792)
maps of New-Ham pfture, Mallachufetts, Con
necticut, R. I (land, Vermont, N. York, N. Jer
sey, Penniylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Vir
ginia, Kentucky, N. Carolina, S. Carolina,
Switzerland, the Difcovenes of Cap
tains Cooke and CLerke, andf the countries
round the North Pole.
Besides 1 he great improvements in the Ame
rican Geography, the accounts of France w|H
be extracted from the French Geography, pub
lished the.revolution ; map p.t Fiance
will be engraved agreeably to the division into
departments : the hiftoiy of Rufiia, which, in
the London edition, is carried no feuW* th>n
1775, is continued to tKelate clterraßTdinvafion
ot Poland by Catharine ; \He accou.nt ol Swe
den h is been Compiled anew, and niiruberlefs
other improvements will be made in this edi
tion.
%* Subfcrioiions are received by the book
fellv rs in jftoftoh, New-"York, Baltimore, Wif-
Richmond, Gharleiton, &c. &c.
June 5
FOR SM.E, BY
MATHEW CAREY,
At hi* Store, N<». 118. Market-street,
Phi lade lpaia,
THE AMERICAN MUSEUM, from its
commencement in January, 1787, to its
termination tn D cember, 1792, in twelve vo
lume*, price, neatly tiomid and lettered, nine,
teen dollars and one fifth.
The opinion/of the Piefident of the United
Statei, rrfpe&i ng this work, ia as follows :
" I the American Museum has met
with eartfeufwe. I may fay, with universal ap
probation from competent judges; for lam of
opinion* that the wofk is not only eminently
calcujat'-d to disseminate political, agricultural,
|>htlofophical, and oth r valuable intoimation ;
but that it h is Keen unijorm/y conduced u'ithtaflc,
attentrtn, a*id propriety. If to these important
obje£U be iuperarided the more immediate de
lign of rescuing public documents fiom oblr
vrrm— I will ventureto pronounce, as my sen
timent, that a more ustruL' literary
PI AN HAS NIVU BEEN UNDERTAKEN IN
AMEK 1C A, or. one MORE DESERVING OF FUHr-
L 1 C ISfCOUR ACEMENT." *
-J?mi
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, May 27, 1793
5 00 Dollars Reward.
\\ 7HEREAS a c7rtam THOMAS blOiS
VV GANTT, hai lately made h<s escape
from Baltimore County Gaol, to which he was
commuted under a charge ot having robbed the
Eastern Mail, 011 the 28th day of January last :
Notioe is hereby g'ven, that a rc wai*d of five
hundred dollars wil! be paid at this Office, to
any peffon or person* who ftiali apprehend the
(aid Tkowas 5/ofi Gantt x and deliver bin> into the
custody of the keeper of the iairf Gaol, or into
thecuflo<}y ot cither of the Maifhai* within the
ynited S'aies, so that the (aid Thomas SJofi C&alt
may be effectually tecored. and forth coming to
aofwer the above mentioned chaise.
TIMOT&Y PICKER IMC,
Pojl-Majler General.
The fotlbwing is a difcrtption of ih« above
named Thomas Sioss Cai*tt : He is about
fix feet high, strait .nd Well made, has light eo
louied hair, tied behind, t»it cOtnpkxion and
has a down look when fpokento.
$3" Wafted tv com pi earfilrf of this Gazette nvnt
ers 79 an d Bd—Six pence tack wi,i be by the
tdilurjor a Jtut *f tkoje rumvers. .
\i An?.
Albany Gkifs-Houfe. ;
n,<s, opi ietors of the GL.fa-M.nufcciory. J
the Firm of i
M'CLALLEN, M'GIIEGOR and Go.
TllG leave to inform the pubh< J (jhat they have
JLVhow brought th&ir Wl NI3OW-GL ASS to
filth peife&ioo, s will be found, on < onpiinfon,
to be equal, in to the bi it London
Crown Glafc.
fixed iheii ptict-j jt a lower ratejtrtn
vrri'u, ti'H Gials, they arc mducricl to \ elicve", that
itrijioi tan'ons of tfunmcU: vHi b<- dik ununited.
in proportion as ttieir works are/e&lfndepi. 1 —
T.hey prppofe tp iriif.afqe the scale of bag.
ness., and as the of it will depend <-»i tse
patriotic fuppoit of the public," they beg _!e«?Ve to
solicit their fiiendly in- the purfuu Of
a bia/icb will tnt^reftO*ery lovf-r of
Am e* ic. a n Man ufa c rua. fs.
All orders for W i noow-Gl ass, *>j any H/ r,
will bf. 1 fbceived at the of RHoofs and
MacGkecor, No, 234, Qucen-ftteei, New.
Yew It, an.d at the GUfc Wa'ehotife, No. 48, .
Albany, which will be punftu3i)y
attended io„
03" fix foiart active LADS, noi
<6" of a#, to be indented as
Avfiimnca. zrM -reguidrrly. inftru4%t>d in the
<Ed, fij
vanoys branches of GUfs Making.
Alfa, thrco Windo Mdkcr>, to whom
grt ;it encourawill be given,
i, 1793.
City of Waihiilgton.
January 71 tn 1793.
A NUMBER of Lois in tins City will be of.
fered for Tale at 4u6*wjn, By the Comrtnf.
fioncr«, on the 17th day of September netft—-
One fou»th part of tj\e purchase money is 10 be
paid down, the rgftduc at ihree equal nnual pay
ments with yearly mtereil oh the whole
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Om'rs.
Extract of an A& of the General AflfemMy of
Maryland, eoriccrning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the C>tv of Waftiingion.
üße it enatled, 7hat any foreigner may b\
deed of ivUi,hcri&f(er to be made. take and hold lavas
h>rthrn that part of the (aid Tit ritory which hes with
in (his $,tute, in the fame mariner as if he was a citi
zen o.f this State ; and the Jame lands in&x be con
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
1c I 1
■OJ-* -nr. ■ ricttt<yif3? —- «/ A— — —*-£-•» .- ~
of thu State : Provided, That no jo? eigner jtttif,
tn, virtue hereof, /* entitled to any jar they or othtr
privilege of * ci'tizeri."
>y-
For thi GA/.ETTE oj the UNITED STATES.
XTOTtyITHSTANDING there was con
i.N- fiderable oppofiliou to the adoption of
the conllitotion, the measures of the new go
vernment were nqt only peaceably acquiesced
in by fiie, people,, but tlie former enemies as
wel! as the si iend-, of the federal canfe joined
in rejoicing in its prosperous administration.
To revive trade and manufa<Ftures, to give a
fefurre&ioo to public credit and such energy
and liability to government as would be ade>-
quate to the jjeneral good of the people, weiy
the common fuhjects of couverfation. All
men, not in office, ai)d a'lmoft all in office,
whether federal lor antifederal, joined their
earned hopes and withes For this auspicious
era so important to our nation to be haftdned.
Accordingly, Congress made ill baste to ar
range the government, and to adopt the mea
sures which would have thef» expected good
effetffs. The Treasury department was Ar
ranged—not a word (Sid against ft'. The pe
tition of the public creditors was p efented
to the firft Congress praying soT the full and
parmaneqt prpvilion of [heir certificrtes.—
The Secretary was required to prepare a plan
fur this purpose ; All America was informed
of this irt all the Gazettes—All America ejt
pedted a just and full provision for the debt
would be made at the next session of Congress.
The creditors exijlted iij the near profpeft of
having justice done them- The price of cer
tificates rofc very rapidly. The people feern
ed to rejoice that the rife would eithir pre
vent foreigners engrossing them, or make
them pay at anumifually high rate for what
they might purchase. During all this period
of buttle and expectation, the clamor agaiuft
m'onied influence and a funded debt was not
heard. So far as the public sense could be
colle&ed, it not only permitted but earnestly
demanded the adoption of measures to place
the publft credit on a firm and honorable ba
sis. Political integrity and honesty were
urged as the only ground on which public
faith could be fecyrelv retted. Not to be te
dious on a fubjeft which every man in Ame
rica knows to be truly stated as above, it may
be aliened, that the lenfe of the people at the
time as well as the experience of the anar
chy and dilgraceof a feeble confederation, re
quired such arrangements as the firft Congress
adopted. The repot t of the Secretary on
the means of providing for the public credit
was made to the firft Congress in their second
felfion. The candid pai tof our citizens may
be appealed C», whether the firft impressions
weie not remarkably favorable to that per-
Wednesday, Jux;-: 12, 1795.
epi2 w
tf
*• - "
Scarce was tfare iri GopgYefy ©r
o*tt, a lnUbie of obje&ian to funding 3t all.
Afr cr an < 'inirlous iuipence., the attack was
iiKi.de on the pretence of extreme regard for
t r e onfrirui holders. It is no Jeer it that the
object and the pertain and known coufcanJnce
of t ! fafc fcWme of d'tferi mi nation was to (it
fe u thr whole provillon for the* d.-bt. Yet!
surely fhofe who urged the pagiufcnt* of fix
per jent. to the original holders, arid half to
the pu r ch;jfing holders by a funding fyftein,
'] cannpt pretend to condemn at this time of
any funding whatever It was their de
clared plan to f\ind. The majority Sifo"we're
for fundings though rrot on the idea of difcri
mi Dating. Who would have thought 1 jrbat
the party would A> fpon have clamoured a
gasbft a funded debt, a rrioricd inftnence,
aT- e-afnrv department, sm9 a dozen other
which if is rfow tf>e canting Habit ct
this party to ccnfure ? This, however, is'
the pretext, and fa£tioji is
tempting to oppose and embarrass all the mea
sures of jlongrefs—and threatening their ab
olshon and repcaVa't tHe fUlxl session. This
Ihort vieVr of their proceedings wjll fhe*V tttat
rK- oppofers of the fylleitis of pilfaltC credit
;<-rc not wa}rai*tfri in-t> prsfqpce?} by tfseir
own l cotxfi»& whfin Hiofc systems palled, nor
by tlje public fentuneats at that period.—
THeV pretend to refpe<sttlie sense of the peo
ple—Yet Congress is called a buhch of knaves
for obeying it. The fund n'g of the debt was
forefeen and not a corner of the union in
which this expe&afion and the grounds of it
were not made known many months, before
the act pa (Ted. Not a man in the woods or
out of them who did pot fee or hear of the
effe&s of thiy expected provision ; for the cer
tified! tes rose excefHvely in Sept. 17&9, aim oft
3 ye* rbe ford. the, funding act pafled. But
wheft the storm of party broke forth in Cou
£refs aj;ainft the Secretary's report, the hol
der* of certificates became alarmed. Many
fold out fupporfng that the debt would not be
funded at all, and that it would run down
and came to nothing, as the old continental
money did. The price funk, ants while the
fubjeft remained for fevn al months in total
uncertainty, it was a gayie of chance whether
the paper would be worth something or no
thing. The Southern certificate Holders fold
ouOt ivfaid ; -and-a-clamor is against
they, the holders fouthof the Potowmac, have
fullered loss by felling their paper.
Will ant candid Southern main fay, the
blame is justly chirgeafcle on that a£f, or on
the nien who advocated its passage.. Thole
men uniformly and itienuoufly urged its pas
sage. T|ie dslay was not their fault, but
their misfortune. Thelofers arc to be pitied,
but they inuft acknowledge the friends of the
funding ai"t would have prevented their loss
if'they could. The causes and true history
of th£ opporttion tk funding need not be sug
gested—but they very unlike the pre
texts which have firice been adopted to give a
color to their party. The hypocrily of ma
ny pretences to republican purity, fimpjicity
andjeSloufy, was not then bold enough to
raile its cry. Time that unfolds nla
ny truths to the deceived and abused mul
titude makes them forget the uses to which
i{ is to be applied. The few will
judge whether the party who are now moving
heaven and earth agsipft the government of
our country, and who'e ho;>es of filccefs are
Chiefly placed mi deceiving and enfla'ning—
are not bojjnd to anl'wer lor all the lulfes and
relf"ntnie,Tt« which have been the consequen
ces of (he delay of the funding law and of the
grofi ?nd proflgate milreprefentatinns which
have taken place fin<*4 its pa/sage.
The f»Hoiuing letters frem La Fayette,
during th : firji dayj oj his captivity,
dre -worthy oj being preserved. Thty
are copied jroni the (London) Star,
of imt 16th April j vihere the authen
ticity of them h vouched j'or.
NtvELLE, in the fatherlands,
juguft 21th, 1792.
YOU mtift be mtich intereited
with toy singular firuation, and
among the conjectures which your
lriendfhip formed refpeifting me,
thw certainly never could have
foinid a place. I informed you that
I would defend the constitutional
thru rife with the fame sinCerity with
which I combated the ancient (yf
tem ; and though the republican
fa<ftion would have given me any
term* 10 change my Conduct, I never
wished to have any communication
with them. My conduct in the As
sembly, by uniting against the vil
lains a majority ot two thirds, was
about to strengthen the political ma
chine a little, when the horrid cr'tfis
of*the rctth of Aogbfl overturned e*b-
[Whole No. 450.]
ry rbifij£. ] found in rl;rf 'ni.ftiiu
(ion, ak well as in ii»y own indigna
tion, aiid the imerctt'of m}■ coiitu. y,
every po'tflble reason tor re/lfting
that rebellion, contrary to all the
principles and (o all the laws. The
department at' Ardennes, in which
1 was, the municipality of Sedan,
all the citizens of which aie excel.
lent, and a part of my troops, were
the fit-It means of lefiltancg %vl,ich I
tfmployrd. Three com irfitfionei sos
the Allembly, among Wh'om was
KeiTainr, have been arretted,amid It
the acclamations of all Sedan, and
Confined in thtf cattle, from which
they beheld the National gnatd and
the rrocipS r'eilew, before the muni
cipality, the civic oath to the nati
. on, to the law, dnd to the ting.
A courier from lil. Claviere, came
to nie witli a pattjibrt, from wlriih
the nanle of the king had been eras
ed— J sent liijii-M jirifeit. f »»> loi>»
ger eoi-rtfponried but with the di
rectory of the Department of the
• Ardennes.
Until liberty shall be restored to
the king, and to the national A Hem.
bly, whom I consider as alfb in a
Hate of captivity, 1 proposed to the
other depai unems a co iHtion, and
a kind of f'rtialt fenngreft, which
ftiould atft in the name oftlie king,
until rh£ eiecuti^e'power (hoiild be
restored to him, so that the fufpen
fiofi might be declared by a refpetft
able majority oftlie kingdom 10 be
a criminal acl, to which France
would not fobmit : But w hat ca-n
the most energetic efforts avail when
terror reigns every where ? The
departments were flow in declaring
themfelves.—Bcfider, the aditiini
vflrators were expelled. Several
which 1 myfelfof ten exclaimed, were
exposed (o view with success ; and
the capital gave an example of timi
dity which was tdo much followed.
Dillon, with the whole left wingAf
tny army, fr»m Dunkirk to Mau
beuge, yielded to the commiflion
ers, and did not even fend me the
tro«ps which I refuelled from bin),
and on whom I ntoft depended..
Luckner afijrted in the fitting,
Metz, in which the suspension of
the king was Accepted by the muni
cipal and administrative bodies,who
were ready to die with fear, as well
as their general. Behold then, all
the civil furrotindhvg authorities,
and all the troops, except the main
body of the army immediately with
ine, bend under the ! Several
of my reglrtieu'S had been fcdticed ;
and among others, I fliall riiemion
only one of the ihfernal manoeuvres
employed, which was to enliil In
the country, and to fend me as re
cruits the abltft diforgnniisr*.
The artillery of suspension, de
crees of accusation, and in fliort,
every thing which could dellroy
confidence, was about to be hurled
against me, f had fiill fomegood re
giments and a great number of offi
cers. I wilhed to shut myfelf up in
some ftfong place, and to eretft there
towards and against all, the Consti
tutional standard ; but it was re
presented to me, that being fuK
rounded at the fame lime by the
cprhbitied powers, and the power 6f
the Jacbb'ins, I (hould, by refilling,
only shed to no purpoW the blodd
of tny friends, myfelf, and
perhaps caofe the King, hii family,
my own, a$ as all the perf»n»
known to be attached to rtie, to Be
aflaffinated. During this time the
commifiioneri, who were prisoners,
fequefted me to grant them a con
feience, which, they said, would
fettle every thing. It in ,njr
power, they said, (a la Columbe)
to be the . firit man in the world.
I rtaditv believe, that by sot getting
their critfrtl, ftyfacrrficingtliikinfc,ami by joining their party, I ffiould
have become to tlieina cliiel of
gi cat importance to be gained over ;
but aj 1 -wa» perfectly certain that
their prafofal would not be recon
cileable 10 my conscience, 1 had re
filled even to fee iheui. In this fi
tuaiion 1 could-do noth-ing ejfe ihun
quit ■ France, as. .my dealb .would
have beer, no fetviee to it. It is
from the ipita of August that 1 date
my egira. 1 repaired to Bouillon,
with iMeaubonrg, Bureau de Puzy,
and feme oi ber officers. We ferouc
under pretence of i ecorlnoitering,
leaving my escort of Huflars on tbe
road,l lent back all my Qrdonances,
(soldiers on duty, whose business it
is to carry the General's written or
ders) to make those divisions of the
army retire who were in danger,
and to inform LUckner, my own
General, and the Municipality of
Sedan, of my departure. _
in a word, inliead of tarrying off
with me as I might, my officers and
troops. 1 dis}. not w Mt> 'bat the moll
scrupulous delicacy Ihoold have any
thing to reproach itfelf with.
Having arrived near Rochfort,
in tbe country of Liege, from which
we expected to proceed to Holland
and England, w-e were informed
that there was there an Austrian
post which we could easily avoid,
bui.which we had no reason either
to leek for, or ro fly from. With a
view <wsly of avoiding all mifiake
and aM -initutiiifira, D tire an de Puzy
quitted us to rfiake to the command
ing officer a declaration similar to
that which I now fend you. We
were invited to approach, and you
will be as much surprized as I was,
when you learn that we were there
treated as prisoners of war. Being
conducted to Namur, and after
wards to this place, we are so clofe
]y confined, that 1 have a ceminel
at the door of iny apartment, and 1
• am not allowed to walk in a final I
garden which is at the bottom of
the stair-case, we walk only in the
court. This conduct towards ns is
as nnjuft as impolitic. Yoq will
. readily perceive that it tends to ali
enate the Conventional party, that
is to fay, the grand majority of the
nation, from all confidence in the
for having defended royaly, at the
fame time as liberty. In (hort,
•Whatever may happen tome, I (hall
always remain iuch as you have
known me ; but if justice and poli
cy prevail over personal malice, I
; expecft to repair soon to England,
where I (hall be happy to fee you.
(Signed)
"LA FAYETTE."
Second litter of M. De La Fayette.
Arlon, Sepit. 3.
I am sensible how mach your
attention is engaged with my fitua
tioti—l am well, this is all the fa
tt*fait ion I can at present give to
my friends.
" 1 -wrote to you since the epoch
—when the crimes of the ioih of
Augwft, the violence offered to all.
the constituted powers, the little
support 1 found in the bold step of
nrrefting the Commiflioners of the
Aflembly, and lastly, the inutility
of my death to the public cause,
were so many fuccelfive reasons for
determining'nie to quit France.
" Had the King been able to de
termine to quit Paris, as 1 propnfed
to him,.after having taken measures
for conducting him to Compeigne,
he would have avoided great dan
gers and great misfortunes. But it
is useless to recur to the past.
" I informed you how 1 resolved
to quit France, in which I could no
longer serve the cause of liberty,
and in which 1 could lieither-com
promise with guilt, nor bend under
the despotism of the Jacebins.
" 1 informed you also how I reach
ed-' Rocheforr, where there was a
poll of Aullriatis whom I and wiy
companions neither fought for nor
avoided. Yon must read in the pa
pers a declaration made by Us, as
well as a lift of the companions of
nyjourney: the manner in which
we announced ourselves, left us in
no doubt refpetling the right we
had to pass freely. We were how
ever conducted to Nivelle, and our
confinement became closer every
day. A part of the officers who had
accompanied me, have at length
been released ■, the reft ought to
havp been so. Since Meanbaarg,
Alexander Lameth, Bureau de Puzy,
and myfelf, were put into a carri
age, under the escort of a major
and three officers of infautry, with
a detachment of hullars. At every
place where we arrived, two cemi
nels were polled at the door of our
apartment, two at the bottom of the
ttaircafe, and two at the street door,
besides those ported at th<? ftabks
and under the windows, so that we
were in every refpeft
prisoners of war, which was sMbfd",
but as stare prisoners, which is ex
plained by the conftiuitio-n of kiayo
nets. We shall arrive to-morrtfwat
Luxembourg—this is all I know?.
"It isftiange enough to fee La
Rochefoucauld and Bariiave under
the rod of the Jacobins— : J and Jny
companions in the chains ps J&e
Auftrians. The friends of liberty
are pr.ofcribed on both fiiei » I am
not therefore in my place, but in a
prison ; and I had rather firffef-iii
the name of despotism, which I have
combated, than in the name of the
people, whose cause is dear to tpjr
heari, .and wliofe name is at prefen'
prfifaned by villains. f; __
- » *t\ - I ■ a——*— 1 -
" I wtfhthat the Duke of'Brwnl
A'ltlc may march Paris
in order that honeit jn.sn efcaj>_{
rhe dagger of aflalfins, aiiA
France jh fafeiy. B«t law ftlittl
with indignation at -the cowardice
with which both towns, and troops
surrender.
" I know well that the crimes of
the iothof August contribute great -
ly to this, but it is necellaty that
the French nation ftiould have at
the fame time energy fuffirifenr to
pnnifli them, and ro defetid itfelf
from fuffering enemies —my coun
trymen Jiave had neither the one
nor the other.
" In fhorr, though my present
(it-nation is disagreeable,. it is not
difgraceful for a friend of liberty,
and it is not what it would have
been at the head of an army, under
the monstrous government which
the Jacobins hate fubftituted'fpf the
conititution.
You will perhaps aik, what are
-jney going to do wltn youatlTiix
embourg ? I really do not'Kifiow
but they will not make ine'a man
inconfiftenr in principles, nor plia
ble by the situation in which 1 now
am. (Signed)
"LAFAYETTE."
PARIS, April 2,
Dumourier in one of his letters to
Bournonville, fays, he designs "one
part of his army for the deliverance
of the found part of the Convention."
M. BrilTot, who is not only a* found
but a moderate patriot, and who
does not wifli to fee the republic
fall before Brunfwick nor Dumou'
tier, thus apostrophises, " deliver
the found part of the Aflembly !
Pray who charged you with this du
ty, Dumourier ? and suppose the
Aflembly was not free,-vrhere is the
republican who would owe liis deli
verance to a Rebel ? Where is the,
republican who is not perfnaded
that if any one man could " deliver"
the Convention to-day, heco\ild not
also enslave it to-.morrow ? Take;
care, Dumourier, if you march
against the Mountain, the whole re-'
public will become Mountain—and j
I, who have braved the daggers of
our little Cromwells, am ready to j
present my bread to the bayonets of!
Monk. Do you really believe; Du
mourier, that we are so reduced as
to choose between our tyrants?"
It would be difficult to paint the
indignation which seized on every
mind, at the reading of Dumourier's
trairerous letters in the Convention :
It was thus Casfar wrote when he
marched against Rome ; he also pre
tended to re-eftablilh peace, and de--
ftroy ty. anny ; he afFetfted net »o
aspire to the Supreme Authority.
" Dumourier! Dumourier!" ciied
Briflot, " I have compared thee to
Ctefar—it is enough to fay, Brutus
waits for thee."
On the 2jth of March, the patriots
e, 'g«g«d a body of counter-revolu
tioniflg near Vannes, routed and
killed 400 of them, who appeared
by their dress 10 be peasants; hue
upon a closer examination they were
found to be men of very delicate
shapes, white skin, and loft hands.
This failt proves what we have luf
petSed, that a large n.uniber of emi
grant nobles have entered the coun
try in dil'guife, and are the only
counter revolutioinifts we have to
fear ill the interior parts.
April j. A whole Department
has denounced Marat, and declaied
that his bead mull fall, or thq pub
lic tranquility cannot be restored.
LONDON, April 19.
The Duke of York ha* caused a
Monwnetit to be ereifled at Don.,
to the memory of Lieutenant Wef-
WfHy : who so gallantly periftied in
the defence of Williamftadt.
Large bodies of emigrants are
daily embarking for Ollend, to fci ve
in the army of the Prince deConde,
as we'll as in that of the Prince de
Saxe Cebourg. j
It is expected that Dunkirk will
be attacked on the 20th inft. Ihe
Gnards were to march to Nieuport
and Fumes this day or to marrow.
It is said there are only 60 regular
troops in Dunkirk.
The French are so completely
blocked np at Dunkirk by ourcrui
zers, that not a privateer or gun
boat has made its appearance in the
channel for many days part.
The Municipality of Dunkirk is
said to have prohibited all further
intsrcotitfe between that port and
"Oftend. In this cafe, it will beconre
.difficult' to procure the French Ga
zettes.
A privateer belonging to Guern-
Tey has taken and Tent into Falmouth
a French ftiip, laden with indigo,
valued at 40,0001.
A Liverpool piivateer, belonging
to Mr. Tarleton of that place, has
taken and sent in a French Weft-
Indianian, valued at 32,000'.
The lrifti finugg'er, called the
Morgan Ratler, which has been in
the finuggling trade since ihe was
launched, is converted into a priva
teer, atmed, victualled, and f urnifh
ed with a conimiffion from the cham
ber, of Vice Admiralty at Brest.
Marquis Cornwallis was expecfted
to leave Bengal in February last.
The French Gendarmerie, who
of R.frta aw arrived at Lisle
with their artillery, arms and bag
gage. The reft of the garrison,
with that of Gertrudenbug, took a
different route r but whethertojoin
Dumourier or not, is not yet known.
Blancheland, late Governor of
St. Domingo, is now under trial be
fore the Revolutionary Tribual.
April 20.
The intelligence which we com
municated on Monday last, refpetft
ing Generals Miranda,Stingen, and
Lanoue, we were hopeful would
have proved unfounded. Subse
quent atlvices, however, put it be
yond doubt, that they had fnffered
ou the fcaffold. The fame advices
state, that Santerre, the Comman
dant General of Paris, had been ap
pointed Commander in Chief of the
French armies.
It. is also confirmed, that Conde
has surrendered to the Auftrians.
Valenciennes is regularly invest
ed.
On the 13th inft. Marac was ar
retted, in confecjueoce of a decree
of the National Convention, and
committed to the prison of the Ab
baye.
Memorial prefcnted ©n the fifth of this monrh,
by the Bntifa and Imperial Miniilers to the
States General.
" a "i Mighty Lords,
,c It is known that towards the end of the
month of September laft'year, his Biitanriic
Majesty and your High Mightiness gave, in
concert, a fo'emn atfnrancc, that in cafe the im
minent danger which then threatened tho lives
of their mo ft Chriftirn Majcfties and their Fa
milies, Ihould he releafcd, his Majelty and your
High MightineiTes would not tail to pursue the
mod efficacious meafu'es to prevent the person
who migllt render themselves guilty of so atro
cious a crime, from finding any afylutri in your
refpe&ive Hates. This event, which w« with
horror forefcen, has tsken place; and the divine
vengeance, teems not to have been tardy. Some
of these dctcftable regicides are now in such a
fltuation, that they can be fuhjetted to the sword
of the law. Tile reft are rttll in the midil of" a
people vvh6m they have plunged into an abyss
of evils, and for whom Famine, Anarchy, and
Civil War, are shout to prepare new calamities.
In ftiort, every thing that we fee happen, indu
ces us to consider as not far d iltant the end of
thefr wretches, whose madness and atrocities
have filled with terror and indignation all thole
who refpeathe principles ol teligion, morality
and humanity*
" Tbt underfilled, ftAlkh-tll . '
enlightened judgment aiVS of your JJ.jj
Mightineflfi, Whether ii Would Mi be prnpe, lo
employ all the meanain yourpowei to prohibit
from entering yoor Staita ia Europe, or your
Colonic*, alt thole Mrmhcri of t|te felfiulrd Ni
tional Convention, or of rtie pretended Exeeu-
tive Council, who have dire&ly or iodirt&ly,
participated in the said crime ; and, if they
fhou'id be discovered and arretted,. to deliver
them up to jufticc, that they may Crrve a» a
(on and example to mankind.
•• Done at the Hague, this £th of Apiil, 179*.
(Signed) 41 Auckland.
" Louis C. Stahainberg.
77/0 fufpenjion of all regular communication with
France has obliged us 10 be more bpef in fame of
the detail* we have laid before the public fine?
.that period thpn we could have wifaed. H'e art
now enabled to give further interejling pattkular<s
rejpeffivg the conduct ofthe convention, on hear*
ing of Dumouricr's attempt to re-ejiablijk Roj*
alty in France.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
■V fn the fitting of the 4th inli. Lacroix gav€
an accodnt of Dumourier having arrdfted
Bnrurnonville and' the cominiffioners sent to
brinft him to the bar.
The commit tee of public fafety immediate
ly met. T*bc constituted authorities in ?a <
and the executive council were Cumiuon d tp
the bar, and ordered to preserve the peats 4*
Paris. Sanrerre, the commandant ge»>e;;ij
*ras lent tor, and ordered to concert with the
civil magistrate in all meafuies which ti\fi
circumftauces might require.
Tlie convention decreed, that the execu.
tive council (houid instantly nominate a &ew
neral to succeed Dumourier, whom t de
clared a traitor ; foi bade him to be obeyed,
on pain of death and confifcation ; and of
fered a reward <of three hundred thou (and li«
vres to whoever ffiould bring him deatj or
alive to Paris.
The executive council announced that they
.meafurevior tfi
peace of Paris ; and proposed tfiat the con*
venfion in imitation of the conftiiutienal as„
fhouM take the remsof government
into their hands, and appoint genera!";.
A deputy from Valenciennes announced,
that the best spirit reigned in.that city, oet
withftanding the efforts of Dumourier ; that
there were 10,000 men in the camp at Matir
bege, and 6,000 at Conde.
Roberfpierre inveighed ap.ainft Briifrt,
and moved a decree of accufatlon agairft him
—Briffiu replied, and the convention pafled
to the order of the day.
Monday, April 8.
A letter, dated St. Gaudens, April if,
wa? read, slating that general Sahudet had
entered the valley of Aran, in the Pyrenees,
belonging to Spain, with two columns of
French troop*;, and bad taken polfefiTion of,if.
The letter added, that he had taken 80 pri
soners, with 60 mo/kefs and hooo cartridge',
with the loss of only two chaffcufs r ki)led,aud
four wounded.
Breard mqived, that the aflSftants of the
rmniftcr at n»ar, tbof* of the minrftfr of the
Murine, Dumas, director of'one of the
offices of the sninifter at war, should be kept
in a rtate of at reft.—Decreed.
It was reported to the Convention, ttiat
35,000 pounds weight of gunpowder had teen
removed from CafTel to Lisle. In the camp
qf the traitor Dumourier, who wifbed to re
tain none but such as were attached to his
cause, desertions multiplied daily. The re
port further stated that such of Dumourier's
troops as continued faithful to him were uni
ted to the Imperialists.
Carnot and Lefage announced that theyhad
transmitted to the Convention a trunk be
longing to Dumourier, in whith were found
several papers refpe&ing his treachery, and
various books, such as the lives of illuftriojjs
men, an atlas, &c.
The department of the Meufe denounced
General Chazot, as a traitor to the Republic.
Bentabol moved that a decree of a'ccnfa
tion (ho 11 Id he pafled against Miranda, Stin
gen, Mazienlky, and La 11 one ; that they
should be delivered up to the Revolutionary
Tribunal.
Some members having observed that such a
decree was not nece.Tary, and that it would
be fufficient to read the papers which tended
to criminate, these papers were ordered to
be read to-mor row.
The ci-devant Puchefs of Orleans requeu
ed and obtained permission to be confined in
her apartment.
A member who read a letter from Sables
d'Olonne, dated April 2, announcing that
the rebels had appeared in force before that
post, and, under cover of Jthe night, had be
gun to throw up trenches for batteries, but
that their works had been dellroyed by a hea
vy fire from the town. The rebels fired red
hot ih/>t, but a ball from the town destroyed
their furnace, burnt some of their carriages,
and occasioned ati explosion which killed a
Jiumber The counter revolution
ists then fled, and were pursued by the patri
ots, who killed 3OOQ of them, and took 14
cannons and 11 carriages laden with bread.
It*MANENT SITTING— APRIL IT!
The fitting of this day was entirely occu
pied toy the reading of the dispatches front
theMeparrrnents in a state of revolt.
In the Department of Finiftfcrre, Cotes-du-
Nord, and la Yillaine, the infurjjjents had
been completely subdued ; in the letter, ma
ny of the ringleaders had periflied on the fcaf
fold. The communication between Rennes
and Nantz had been re-eftabliflied, and Ge
neral Berruyer was to attack the Rebels.
Friday, April 12.,
Buzot demanded, that the Appeal
Chould be proceeded on, for the ele&ion ot
four Members to repair to the Depart
ment de I'Orne, there to collect particu
lars refpefting the motives of PhHippe d'Or-journey ta Ss«;. Hs, propoled,
thic Convention iTwmid(iecree the exami
nation of the Members denounced hy Robei t-
IJjierre
" I know," fa id Marat, " t'vit wicked
md criminal faction oi Guadet, Vc-rgniaud,
Jriirot, and Genfonne, aims at concealing its
rimes under the veil of an imaginary con
piracy. The criminality of this faction,
nany of the members of which have, how
:ver, in my opinion, been led allray from
:heir allegiance, is no longer a mystery, finte
3umourier has removed every doubt on that
sead, by declaring in their favor. It is not
for me to decide whether Phillippe Egalite
might to be brought to trial, upon a charge
aftreafon; but this I know of him, that he
is a inan without moralsj without capacity,
and without honor. Whether or not he is
culpa')]*, I leave to.the Vifdom of your re
iearchp'.
,° It is, however, no longer doubtful) that
the younger Egalite, who has followed Du
mourier, has !»een guilty of Leze Nation. I
therefore demand that he may be declared no
longer under the protection of the law, and
that the Decree framed ajainft his worthy
jnafter in fVeacfiery may b4 extended to hini.
I urifli alio to fee whether you will peal y pro
scribe the family whom ydu to appearance
Jnirfue ; and X demand against all the fugi
tive Capets the decree youbive palled againtt
DiiinouTier. As to the authors and abettors
of the Faftton of la Giror.de, 1 wilh to lee
tliem in pofleffion of every polGble means of
freeing themselves from the stigma with
•which they ire covered by the public opinion."
Here violent murmurs afofe agp.inft the
Speaker; and it was demanded that he should
be called to order, and reprimanded. The
Aflembly now became very tumultuous, in
somuch that the Prafident put on his hat.
In the course of a few minutes, the tumult
was appeared, and Lecointre Ifuyraraux, ob
tained a hearing. He combated the propo
fitions.,of Marat which he found very impolitic,
*since they might induce the enemy to make
""reprifals, and cut off the four Commiifioners
jiTiprifoned at Toumay. He next insinuated,
that certain persons would perhaps be very
happy to fee the ci-devant pril'oners aflaflina
ted, to the end that their accbmplices might
not be come at.
Here Lecointre was interrupted by the
cries of the Mountain, several of the Mettl
bers <*n that fide observing, that none but the
friend's of the Capets, and Statesmen, could
entertain such a wifti.
At tbefe words, the t>imult redoubled.—
AM the Members on right the fide, among
j»hom Duperet was particularly noticeable,
each Wilt) a iVord care in his hand, the wea
pons drawfr, hurriid m a body towards the
Mountain. " 1
The Fi'efiderit irift'antly put on his h'»t, and
*5t was timfe before tranquility
i#uljT>e re-eftablifced. : T ' ' ■
Lecointre wirtied to resume his harangue,
but was interrupted by Caloh, who demand
ed fhat Du;jeit should be ordered' to the pri
son de PAbbaye, r for having sword in hand,
"J!senace3*Tome of the Deputies;
This motion gave rite to 4n agitation,
which conftant'y seeming to draw towards a
a conclusion, and as constantly renewed, was
of a very comidcable duration.
Dupe ret at length ascended the Tribunal.
tf The favor/' said Tie, u I have to ask of
the Convention and the Tribunes, is a calm
hearing— a" favor that is not refufed to the
greatest criminals. It* I am culpable lam
not the man who would wish to withdraw
hitnfelf from the avenging arm of my Fellow-
Je^iflatprs.
kt For nineteen months, in the Legislative
AiTembly, did I combate a&ainft Despotism
and the Feni.'lans.
u Since I have held a Teat in this Conven
tion, I have unceaimgly striven again ft a
band of in«fcreants, who have long fought
the dcftr-u&ion of the common weal.
" In vain for the last two days has an at
tempt been made to come at a knowledge of
the accomplices ps Dumourier, Lecointre has
for more than an hour endeavored to com
bat the propofit on of Marat, but has not been
able to obtain a hearing. In the interim, a
part of this Alfembly was excitecfby an emo
tion of indignation.—This impulse I follow
ed ; and whilst I was stationed in the centre
of the Hall, I perceived a Mountaineer level
a pistol at my head. Seized by a natural emo
tion, and 'impelled, if I may so express my
felf, by a fury, I drew my sword. But I had
still another weapon—a pistol; and if I had
merely made a thruftatone of my colleagues,
I would inftanrly have blown out my braips."
The Aflembly at length put an end to this
farcical contest, by proceeding to a nominal
appeal on the nomination of commiflioners to
proceed to the Department of de l'Orrie.
St. (OHNVfAoligua) May p
The {Loop Favorite, Win. Haftie* matter, ar
rived here yefteiftay from Gibraltar, which place
the left on the iOth of Apt it. Capl. Ho'flie re
ports as follows :
That.s jO gun A»ip aiui 2 forlic», Wiih the
3«d regiment sod a battalion of the fain us
artillery oe board, failed with him. bound to
Baibadota—^and that he spoke the Woolwich,
<>nt ol thr 49's, o» ihc 14th of that aiootb, about
Utjp.co.lof^jj.
T»»i fiiteenSpanifb line passed
the Hack of.Gibraltar, bound to Cailhagrna, to
joia |b*fe tb»t wery there, aod that the whole
Mete to join t.ord Hood, who was expetted at
Gitfaltai, with »5 fail ol (be line.
That France had declared war a gain ft Poitu-
X?l and all the eaftnn poweis, and that when he
Iclt Gibraltar there were laying <r that place a
Portuguese {hip ot the line, 6 frigate*, 2 brigs
"and d cvtter.
Th»t Ger>. Ohat* hatl armed there with a 50
a {loop of w«r, an J two brigs ; that a
prodigipttt Dumber of piijei fiom A«e/tca,
Guaddloupe, and Sr. pomingo, had
brr-n carried in there; ami ih<u in the l
°[ March there vttreonly 7 fail of French 1 ii»c
oi battle ihips Jaymg at fJrclt.
That a French Itore-ilvip, carrying 6 eighteen
pounders, and 4CO troops on board, had beerv
taken by rhe Scout (loop of war, ar ({carried iWft
Malaga, after an engagement ni 6 hours. She
was laden with stores tor the French fleet.
May 23. Admiral Gardner, with a-part of
his fleet, are gone 10 Barbados s to wait the arri
val ot the troops fiom the different iflandsj in
tended for the attack of Mart iqico : Commodore
Thompson is now cruizing off that island.
We have been favored with the perusal of a
letter from a gentleman at St. Martins to his
friend in this town, dated the 21ft i-nft. which
gives an account that oh 'Saturday night last, a
party fiom the Dutch quarter, surprized them,
and took the fort without the lealt accident hap
pening on either fide, and that the Dutch color*
are now flying ail over that island.
United States.
COLUMBIA, (S. C.) May 21
On Monday last came on, in the Federal
Circuit Court, under the authority of the
United State*, in this town, beforejudge Pa
terfon and judge Bee, the important taufe of
William Higginfon, tiirviving co-partner of
Greenwood and Higginfon, lale merchants in
London, against William Greenwood, surviv
ing co-partner ofLegare and Greenwood, of
Charleston, and George Crofts and company of
Georgetown, merchants. It was by a bill on
the equity fide of th* Court. Mr-Read and
Mr. Pringle werj cawjcil for the complain
ants ; Mr. Edward Rutledge and General
Pinckney for the defendants.
It appeared, by the pleadings and the evi
dence, that in 1771, the defendants wrote to
the complainants to flipplv them with gpods,
&c. and agree to allow the usual commission
on the purchaCes, and five per tent, interest ;
that the accounts of the complainants fkou'd
be fettled and balanced every year, aiic 1 ! inter
est charged on the several invoices after a
certain periud from their refpe&ive datei;
and, if not paid at the end of each year, should
be added to the principal, and draw interest
alfd at five per cent.
This appeared to be according to the cus
tom of merchants engaged in that trade at
the fame time. The dealings between the
parties were continued for several years, and
the accounts of the complainants were ft2ted
according to the agreement, and sent over
•to the defendants until the 2iftof December,
177.7, which they acknowledged, to have re
ceived arid to be just.
Mr. William Greenwood, one of the de
fendants, and the only forviving co-partner
of both the companies in America, was put in
the confifcation lift in South-Carolina, and his.
property fequeflered for the use of the state
in 1784. —He afterwards went to England,
and the complainant there applied to him to
acknowledge a dated account against Legare
ind Greenwood, which was made up to the
S-UfrDecemjeiM 7Sj,-t,o the amount of .about.
J4,0301. in which compound interest Was
charged for the whole time. He desired this
might be signed and acknowledged, for the
purpose of recovering it of the commiflioners
of confifcated property in South-Carolina,
which the defendant signed accordingly; but,
in his Snfwer to the bill he avers that he was
under arrest, and signed it without examina
tion. There was some evidence to this point.
Judge Bee did not think it amounted to a
legal purer* ; yet, as the account was signed
and acknowledged for the purpose and with
the views mentioned in the answer of the de
fendant-, it ought not to bind him ; and, par
ticularly, that it ought not to bind the execu
tors and repr.efentatives of deceased part
ners, bc,ing done long after their deaths, and
of course after the termination of the co
partnerfliip. The accounts against the firm
of Crofts and Co. amounting to about i 6,0001.
were never signed.
The cau r e was argued with great ability,
learnig and eloquence on both fides. 1
The complainants contended that they
were entitled, by virtue of the coritra<sV, and
the custom of the trade, to have the principal
and interest on their debt during the whoJe
time, and interest on the accumulation each
year. Many cases from the law were pro
duced in support of their claim, and the trea
ty of peace was particularly insisted on.
The defendant contended that no com
pound interest ought to'be allowed after the
mutual dealings of the parties had ceased ;
and that no interest ought to be paid during
the war. A? all communication was prohi
bited by the Sovere gn power of each nation,
it was unlawful,and indeed impossible to make
remittances : That the complainant being an
alien enemy, had no power to ftie, and had no
demand during the war : That his Claim was
forfeited by the laws of nations ; and that the
treaty of peace only restored to him the right,
lie had at the commencement of the war:
That the word debts in the treaty did not in*
elude interest of course ; and Hiat in treaties
where interest is intended to be included it
is always mentioned : [Several extracts from
treaties were read in proof of this.} That
the a<st of a sovereign of a state is the ast of
every individual who composes it; and that*
the complainant did, in fact, binder the de
fendant from making payment, and therefore
he ftiould not have interest, which is damages
for detaining the debt; besides, that in a great
national calamity, where the defendants could
receive no prpSis, no interest ought in equity
to accrue- This appeared to have been the
law in Irelaitd, and ought to be so here, &c.
The Judges delivered their separate opini
on* with great clearness and precision.
Judge Bee wat of opinion that the com
plainant fiionld recover interest, according to
contra#, till 1777, on both debts; that the
interest (hould then ceafctili November 1782,
1 the grnvifienal articles of
r '"-'*tr4jt"y of : peace, und should then cor.i
-, - lc - according to the contract tiil paid
I , J re -farCliim wai of opinion that the
cmtijMijjnd inteidft fliould be paid on both
debts during the time the parties had mutual
dealings, to wit, on the i 6,0001. till 1777, due
f rom George Crofts and Co. and then to drew
simple interest at 5 per cent, till paid, that
be'iig the time the dealings ceased ; and that
*'' e JifiOol draw compound interest till De
cember; 1783, the time the dealings with Le
gare and Greenwood ceased, from which time
it should draw simple interest at five per cent,
tit! paid. He was of opinion, that the treaty
of peace restored the complainants to all the
rights they would have had if no war had 1
been and.that the interest was a necefl'ary
con if\ u *" te tf>e debt, and was intended by
bVpeace.
The Court being divided, no final decree
was made.
Wdzrt fbrry if is not in our power to give
a mare full--and accpi ate account of this cafe,
£s b? arguments of the council, and the opi
nions(of the judges, would afford much enter
tainment and inftriiftion to the gentlemen ef
the law.
Tife trfaj was not ovfcr until Thursday
-
* ' '
RICHMOND, May 30.
' DUMOURIER.)
Letters from MefTrs. Anderfon and Co. of
London, an American house, as late as the
7th of April, fay nothing of the defection of
DUMdURIER—of courie we may infer,
tliat the various publications on this fubjeft
are fabficated lies—and that tliis Greatest
or men is still a fact Republican, ready as he
to-expofe himfelf sword in hand,
agaipi} the foes of FRANCE, of LIBERTY,
and of MAN—-it is wouderfu] to remark the
zfal which chtai* people inauileft to circulate
ta'lrs which may darken the protpefts, which
relate! to France; 'tis ■ tpe
ciei offijlly and madness, which verifies the
expraflion, "QuosDeus vult perdcrc primus dmm
tal"— lt Whom God intends to deflroy, he jijl infa
tuates,"—for, concluding from the disposition
which pervades this State 'tis not to be doubt
ed in cafe the struggles of France (hould be
come more serious—that this mongrel herd
of pfendo-politicians and and lye-mongers
will be disagreeably fitnated, and compelled
2gaip to fly from the land of liberty, or be
come the cohfpicuous victims of their own
folly—and Tt may not be presumed, that a
people will hefttate to ast decidedly, because
of a governmental veto, who a few years
ago disregarded the eflirt of king, -supported
and enforced jby the whole British.nation, and
legions of German cur-throats.
SALEM (Mail*.) June 4.
Town-Meeting on the PrefidenCs Proclamation.
AT a meeting of the inhabi'ants of the town
of Salem, legally warned and a(T mbled, at the
Court-House, on Friday the 31ft of May, 1793,
for. f urpofc of taking irn© ih**r
serious conCideration the pl&fihf and timrly
Proclamation iflued by the Preftdent of the
United States of America, enjoining upon the
citizen* thereof to pitrfue a conduit friendly
and impartial towards the belligerent powers"—
Elias Hafket Derby, Esq. being cholen Mode
rator—
Fotcet unanimoujty. That the Proclamation is
sued by the Prciidcnt of the United States be
lead.
Voted unanimoiilly. That the town of Salem,
. feelingly impretfed with the highrft sense of the
wisdom, goodness and fmpor»ance of the Prefi
' drm's Proclamation, do address the Prciident
oT the United States on that fuhjeft.
An address was then laid before the town,
and read.
Voted unanimovjty, That the to*-n approve of,
TecCTve and adopt the address presented; and
thar a committerof eighteen perfors be chosen
to and inclose a copy of the fame, tn behalf
of the town, xo the Prefirient of the United
States ot America, at Philadelphia.
, v; , t . ALBANY, May 27.
Bv ,1 gentleman who 1 1 ft the Li I tic Faill on
the Mojiawfc riv<*f on Saturday Uft, we arc in*
formed', ttySl about two hundred and fifty men
are employed m cutting through the rocks, with
a fair profpeft of accompli fhing the important
obj(£l in view, with left difficulty than W3j an
ticipated Hy J many.
From the Northern Canals we also l arrf, that
tbey*re B° ir Ws with great spirit—th.* men arc
1 well fed and accommodated, and ir.ftcad of cut
ting their way through solid rocks, as was ex
i peeked, rt proves to be a slate foil, easily loomed
! by a plough ana eight oxen.
From a perfoo who lately visited the wonder
ful Ftftpof as now afcerrained
to be ncai 159 lect perpendicular, the ice was
not at the bottom, and formed a
conical or pyramidical appearance of some ex
tent and height, this added eonfiderably to the
majeure and marvellous profpt#, that thii pro
digy.pt nature always seems lo have; the rain
bow also, which of a fine fun-ftiiny day is ever
conspicuously visible, materially enhances the
value of thi« unparalleled view. This gentle.
man,v.wlio has frequently for some years part
minujjety tnveftigated these catata£U, further ac-
the, Table Rock over which the
imm«ff fliert of water, which comes frftni the
upper Lakes falls down, is considerably ex
cavated i, this is unaccountable, as one would
imagine iuch a inafs of water rolling over it,
would prevent this, and counteract the vapour
or fprrv below, wtiich is the only reason that
can be afljgned for t his- phcenomenon.
Upper Canada t Gaz.
NEWYORK, June 7
On Wednefdfty the £th inft. I*o Gentlemen
dined at the To&tttic Coffee.Houfc, being the
amiivrfUf y.of laying the corner ftoae or th«t
building, at a fpiendid entertainment piovfliM
by Mr, Hyde, aad conda&ed witk much Jilia*
l«i£tion u) 3li preKfV,
After Dinner the tollowibgToaft* were drauk.
1. The People.
2. TTie Preftdeot of the United States.
3. Governor of the S'Jte oi New-Yoit*"'
<t. Chief Juflice oi the Umud Sttti.^
g. Secretary of the Tieafury,
6. Agriculture and Coitinurce/
7. Science and the ufrful »rt»y
8. The fraternity of IrcelttC".
9. May our law< be mild ih their iiiSurisef-,
and equal in their operation.
50. May thesdvocatei of vrtr alone feet it»
mifeiies.
it. May the commiffinnera of the Indian
treaty secure a permanent peace.
j2. May the nation*of Europe bury their ani
trtofities in the tomb of despotism.
13. May success attend oui* hopes, and en
joyments our wifius.
14. The American fair.
15. Peace, freedom and happiness to ail mac
kind.
Volunteer J rem the (hair.
Success to the Tontine Coffee-Houfe, afid may
it long continue to rtfLft crcdit on the fubfenb
eis.
June to. A few d*ys since arrived from
London, the Chemical Apparatus for Colum
bia College; and also a numerous and well
chosen collection of Anatomical
It must give pleasure to every lover of his
country to observe the progress of science
among us, who while the Europeans are en
gaged in political commotions ard wars, are
cultivating with assiduity and success the arts
of peace. The introdu&iori of this chemical
and anatomical apparatus, evinces the liberal
and enlarged plan of education which has been
adopted under the fan&ion of a generous Le
gislature and patriotic Trustees, and cannot
fail in a special manner tofaplitate and complect
theJludy of Physic in this Jemwary.
Philadelphia, Just« *2-
The frigap l'En»bufc«<ae, pafftd the light
house on Friday evening, and fired fcveial gum
during the night, as figoals, it U fuppoC d tof
her boar. The next morning ihr was obfetved
at the distance of 5 leagues, (lauding Raft ; and
about one o'clock the day captured the
brig Catharine, Capt. Drifdale, of Halifax, from
Kingflon, Jjtnaica, bound to this port. The
Crcw,of the brig, except the on finding
the frigate overtake them, took to their boat,
and were taken up by a pilot-boat off Turtle
Gut. The prize was sent tn\o New-York.
The French fleet, for fotne time past exposed
at Martinique, had not arrived whrn Captain
Pat ton, of the brig Ranger, failed from thcnce,
18 days ago.
Capr. Smith, of the brig Aurora, in 19 days
from Port-au-Princr, informs, that on the 2sjfi
of May, ftie was chafed by the British privateer
. cutter Speedwell, Capt. Berry, of 8 gnus ard
60 men,.and boarded by an officer and 6 men off
Heneaga, who kept poffeflion of the v<,ffei tbouc
four hours, in search of French properly. They
informed Capt. Smith that ihey captured the
ffchaoafr? Ann, of and. thc,Rjegu-
Jator, of Baltimore, Cap'.. White, from Jeremie,
to this port, undtr pretence of having French
property and pafTcngeis on board. In one of
I these vcffcls was a considerable sum of money.
By the last accounts from Paris, it appears,
that'the moderate party in the National Conven
tion are the majority—the Mountain, not with
standing the applauses of the tribunes and the
galleries, have been in the minority i» fevrral
motions made by the lleadv and confident
friends of liberty.
M. Bouchotte is appointed Minister of War,
in the room of Bournonville.
Grn. Dampierre has accepted the commaud
of the army.
There are various reports refpefting the
capture of several French places in the Weft
Indie l ; by the English—but Marine and Indian
intelligence is as uncertain as that from any
quarter of the globe—Time is continually/ir
futing the mod of it.
COMMUNICATION.
In private life he that ratfe» and lpread»
evil and groutidlefs report# of another is
deemed a oafe aflallin. In public affairs the
moll groundless fufpieions are v ami (lied over
with the pretence ofthe public good—and are
imputed by the fabricators to be an extreme
zeal for the inttrefts of the people—lo honest
as to bepurblind. Happily for the peace of our
country,we have no state quacks or politicians
so careless or ignorant, as to make falle char
ges—nor so bitter and so hasty, as to give
them to the public full of blunders and incon
sistencies thp.t carry their own ridicule along
with them ! Who will pretend that even or e
falfe accusation has been made agairft our
government either within the walls of Con
gress or among the body of the citizens ?
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVEDaf the PORToj PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Aurora, Smith, Fort-au-Ptincr
ftauger, Pauon,
Susannah, Alinfon, ieogan
Sloop jason, Taylor, Antigua
Schr. Nancy, Singleton, Kn^lton
Winfieid, WNer-n, Virginia
Fi*Q4i- t do.
""PRICE, OF STOCKS.
per Cents, \ ijfy
3 pet Cent*, 9/10
Deferred, lojt
Full /hares Bank U. 5. 7 per ccnt. adv.
- f&T' "THE Poft-M«Aers and other perroni
«h> iwy.coileft $njpfcriptioas for tt* GuitUt
aj ti< VniiU Sit/tt, <w t)» terms proposed in
W* mJdreft requeflad
b»&ryrard their bj tfc«
nrft of November next "
PhiMtlfjki*, Jwk {««oils. Cli.Llh. Ur.
PRICE CURRENT. StfXto.pt.lm ,' 0 £
?*» ttU4«TiTif.-»OLi»»i looteiiu each. bmo balkeis, 12 boilicj 5
In me 12 Sp:rmaccti pr. gail. 48
™» J UNE I - Train 24 t 7
1 Whrie t$ 33
mi,, cts. t)ib. a, Portc . r pr ci(k) 5 33
11 ' i io l *.\'' V R. r * ID " 7 10 London, pr.doz. 1 60
Allum, 433 -American dmo bot.in<J. 14 160
Dido, Rocn pr. lb. 11 Puch, pr. bbL 173 *
A lhes, par, pertou, 1 fork, Burlington, per barrel, 14 Cj
~ -Pear!, 137 140 7 Lower County *•}
Arrack pr.g.ll. >23 lib Carolina 9
Brandy, common. »=> «5 p Js> Albany or. bilftiel 73
9° Pepper, pr. lb. 38
Braziletto, pr. ton. 3 2 34 p.mento r ,d
Bricks, pr. M. 4 7
Bread, fhio, or. cwt. 2 27 Ratfinj, or*, pr. keg 6 33
Ditto, pilot 367 P" !0 P r 'j? r X* 33
Ditto, small water, F« keg 36 40 pr. box "*B3
Beer, American, in bottles, ,£ . c P r -cwt. 34|
pr.doz. bottlekincluded, , <0 Rosin pr. Barrel -
Ditto pr. barrel, 4 67 Rurn ' Jamaica, pr. gallon 112
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 20 Antigua 1
Mew England 1= .4 |°
— Oak 14 16 Barbados »7
• Merchantable pine 20 24 Country, N. E.
'Sap, do. 10 6? $<ilt petre, pr. cwt. 14 33
Mahoqanv, per foot 10 Saflafras pr. ton O 8
The6boveare the shallop price*, shot ditto 140 14^
"for the yard price, add 1 dol- Steel, German pr.lb. §
Jar 33 cents per 1000. Engijftj,bliftered, pr. cwt. 10
' Br.mftone in roils, pr.cwt. tB7 AmeriJ.ipr. too "3 33
Beef, Boston, pe, I arrel is —-Crowley's pr. faggot , by
Country ditto 9 10 *>ske root. pt. lb. SO 4|
Freft, per cwt. 333 46; S^P> |»« P« ">•
Butter pr.lb. >6 e •
in keg, 10 .= --Calttli
Cindles, Sperm, pr. l£>. 4? j IL h - j- i
, Wax 53 "Inuff pr. dol. bot. .4 j6O
— Myrtle Wax 1 ~ Spermaceti, refio. d, it. J <8
Mould, tallow Englifb,No.i,pr. yard, 36
Dipped 11 - Boston, No. 1. ditto 36
Cheese, English, pr. lb. No. 11. 35
— Country 8 13 Sugar Lump, pr.lb 24
Chocolate - % *£ Loaf, Angle itfined 24
Cinnamon 2 40 2 67 Ditto, double cJo. 33
Cloves 1 32 Havannah, white tj 18
Cocoa pr. cwt. 10 ii Ditto, brown, it 12
Coffee pr. ft). >4 16 Muscovado. pr. cwt 9 12
pr. bushel 24 3s- pr. gallon 27
Copperas pr. cwt. 1 6 >alt, Allum pr. burfiel 33
Cordage, American, per cwt. 767 o Liverpool 33
Cotton pr.lb. 27 3; Cadiz 95
Currants 12 - Lisbon 27
Duck. Ruflaa, pr.piecc 15 Shipbuild. W. O. frames p.ton, 1867
-— R " cn ; • ,1 Ditto Live 0?k, 2133
Dutch fail duck, >8 2 Ditto red cedar, per foot 33 40
Feathers pr. lb. 48 Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 333 3 <57
Flax ditto n »! Ditto »feet, 6 50 6
Flaxfeed pr. bush. 9& c buto J sett, dressed, 13 15
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel 6 Slaves, Pipe pi. 1000 35*
—■-—Common. 5 67 Wbtte Oak hogshead, 26 33
Bur middlings, best 5 Red Oak do. 50
Meal, Indian g 13 Leogan 2f 33
Rye, 3 33 Barrel 16
——Ship-fluff pr. c*l. 1 40 He.ding _ 2$ 33
Fustic pr. ton, 20 Skins, Otter, be# pr. piece 467
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 46® -jl'nl" 23 4°
Do. Pr gall. 8o 9c F°*i g re y ... 4° 3°
Glue, pr. cwt. «o si 33 Ditto red leo
Ginger, white race, pet lb. J C' rtms *4 » ,
Ditto, common 7 Filherr 33 , 67
Ditto, ground pr. lb. tC ~ Bears 3
GinCeng, 20 24 Racoons 27 60
Gunpowdtr, cannon, pr. q.cafk, g -73 4 Mulk-rata 11 so
Diuo, fine glazed 4 Beaver, pr. lb. 67 .1 33
Grain, Wheat pr. bufb 93 1 20 Deer, in hair 20 30
—r—Rye 6c Tar.N.Jcrfey,24gal.p.bbl. 1
Oals 8j Carolina, 32 gall. 2
. . Indian corn 6c Turpentine pi. bbl. I 33
Barley 1 1 3 Tobacco, J. River, best loolb. 33
■ Best (helled pr. lb. y -inferior 3 33
——Buckwheat, per bush. 40 : : old 467
Hemp, imported, or. t6n, 120 14667 Rappahannock 3 33
American, pr. lb. 4 6 Co,oured Maryland, 433 8
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 P" 1 » 2
Hides, raw pr.lb, 9 Long-leaf 8 40
Hops »7 Eastern-shore 2 2 pg
Hogshead hoops, pr. M. 15 3 7 3
Indigo, French per lb. 167 Tea, Hyson p° lb. qq fll
Carolina 1 Izo Hyfcn Ik.n, £ 6 o
Irons, fad pr. ton, 13333 Souchong, to q,
Iron, Caftmgs pr. cwt. 3 4 Con | 93
B» P'"»°. 84 Bohfa, 31 U
J's- 2 * Tallow, refined, per lb. q
CI , *'3 33 Tin pr.box, « 10 ij t o 6»
Nail rods 101 33 v '3 33 '3°
J JD k, pr.cwr. 4 5 pr lb. 4: gj
Lard, hoga pr. lb. 9 10 Vermillion, do. 133 ,67
Lead, in pigt pr. cwt. 533 j 67 Varnifb, pergallon 33 37
■■ in bars 7 \Vax,Bees pr.lb. 25 27
white 10 10 67 Whale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 30
1 L° d r 1 IK 640 6 6 Wine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 176 826
Leather, foal, pr. lb. _20 Li{bon VK P 7J ,*|
Lignum Vits pr.ton, 560 6 Tenenffe.pr. gallott 63
Logwood 30 Fjyal -P 6 3
Mjckarel, pr bbl. 8 Dmom'boule*, pr.dot. " 3 33 4
-f cond quality 6 4 cljre ' r *
Madder, best pr. lb. t6 20 waTt '
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 133 267 Malaga " 'go
Mall spars ditto 33 8 7 '
Molasses pr.gall. 44 47 \
Mustard per. lb. 87 A
——flour, in bottles, pr.doit. i 2c COURSE OF EXCHANGt.
Nails, BJ. lod.tfd. and 20i. pr.lb."- 10 ° n London, at 30 days, per £ .rOO fieri. 4^6
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 8 at 60 days 453 33
Oil, Lillfeed, pr. gall. 66 Amsterdam, !o dlyl, pr. guilder, "^-38
U " Ve . 7 90 days, 36
Stock Brokers Office,
No. WaH-ftreet, NeV-Yor*.
THESub&Viber intrndingto cotifiniluiriTcTf
entiVitf to thr PURCH ASF & SALE of
STQCKS, ijnCO MM X SSIO N, bcgs leiv cto of
fe'r hisfer'vtcei to nit friends in'd others, in tte
line of» Stocii Broter. Thofc who may pTcafc
to f»«or hiA With thrir blifiner., Ally depend
apoo baviii'4 it'tranfaficd with the •taoft fide
lity dtfpatch,
tfrplcrt froit* Boftdfe, of any
States, wfll be ftiri&ty
~
LEONARO fLetiCKEft.
TWI MEMBERS Of THE
INSURANCE COMPANY OF ;
NORTH AMERfCA,
Are drfirtd Itl take Nvtiee t
THAT the Constitution requires Payment of
One Dollar on each Share % on the Second
Monday (the Bth Day) of July next, on Penalty
of Forfeiture of ihe Money already paid.
Such Stockholders as have not made their fe
ccmd Inftalmeni, are informed, that Payroent
will be received at the Company's Office, No.
i >9, Sooth Front-Street, either on or before chc
said Day, asthev mav God it moil convenient.
EBENF.Z£R HAZARD, serVv.
June 8. 1793. tpt&j.
STATE tf RHODE-ISLAND and PROVI
DENCE PLANTATION!.
In General Afjcmklj-, May Sejfiin, A. D. 1793.
RESOLVED, That an A a pafffd by U»rs
Air moly attheSeftion m May, A. D. »79*>
whereby Jabsz Bow in, Esq. CommfTioner of
Loans, wu icqucfted not to loan any Note* of a
certain defcripuon, tffucd by thi General Trea
surer of this State for Montes due to the Soldiers
of ibe laic At my, 111 conference of Ihnr having
been fraudulently obtain d, and the said C«-m
---mifßoner was further requested to retain said
Notes in hjs office until such future orders (houlii
be thereon made,a: might ennfifl with the prin
ciples of justice and equi y, be, and the f*me is
hereby repealed, so far as regards the detention
of those Notes.
It is further refolvtd, That the General Trca
furer adverttfe in all ihe newspapers in this Aaie,
and in the Gazette oj the United States, a drfcrij>-
tion of tne No'es ttius fraudulently obtained,
with a caution Co all persons not to purchase
them.
Li) 7 of Notes obtained from the Treasury
Office by fraudulent Measures % to wit:
When delivered. To whom When Amount oj
1790. payable. payable. the face.
I f d -
Sept.2s. Sharpo Champlin, on demand, 41 1 5
Prince Cafe do. 11 18 2
Stephen Charles do. 30 9^lo
John Brown do. 12 1 4
Casfar Cady do. 51 2 10
John Okey do. 19 ti
Oft. 14. John Reed. do. 31 4 o
John Horfley do. 29 o 6
William King do. 22 19 5
16. Prince Sayles do. 3$ 11 to
Bnftol Arnold do. 38 9 6
Caesar Rose do. 36 12 8
Cudge Champlin do. 40 11 10
Jack Greene do. 40 8 6
18. Joseph Tanner do. 43 7 10
Cato Vernon do. 20 3 £
Dauiel Sliai pe do. 30 11 3
Pnnce Randal do. 38 11 o
J< (hua Dick do. 29 19 7
William Wgro do. 29 Jo
23. jofeph H*ll do. 39 12 5
Benjamin Sprague do. 39 10 o
Peter Harris do. 38 14 6
28. Stephen Aidrich do. 22 14 3
William Mac Call do. 35 8 O
Prince Childs do. 27 12 2
Leicerter Wheeler do. 19 2 4
Pat Hackmet do. 25 14 o
Abraham Smith do. 24 J 4 8
John Thomas dp. 4110 8
Jack Warden do. 31 o 2
John Bristol do. 33 18 11
Benjamin Reed do. 02 4 8
Cato Bdnnifler do. 27 2 7
Nathaniel Wicks do. 20 8 5
Benoni Hathaway do. 36 17
Evan Evans do. 28 7 2
Joseph Merry do. 32 8 7
Pero Greene do. 28 16 q
Nov. 5. Benoni Hunt do. 4° 5 o
il. Cato Brown do. 37 £ 7
Africa Bu»k do. 27 2
London Siocum do. 23 8 11
Jack Mimhorn do. *7 2 q
13. Tibbet T- Hopkins do. 41 .3 g
17. Jacob Ned do. 40 oi 0
Boflon Wilbour do. 42 7i Q
Tony Phillips do. 2730
Ephra:m Rogers do. 623
Robert Goiebam do. 41 o*o
24. Robert Howland do. 39 3 o
James Singleton do. 2.1 15 q
James Cross Jo. 35 4 6
Cato Stanly do. 21 oiq
John George do. 19 19 g
John Crandal do. 77 12 2
Prince Power do. 19 4 9
Ueneciift Aaron do. 7* 10 8
Caesar S'helden do. 12 18 7
C&far Wefel do. 17x7 9
Socio Dc W#lfe do. 19 14 i 0
Bristol Luther do. jg 2 3
John Huflcy do. 28 it 5
Dec. 2. B- njamin Sweet do. 6 o i
Silas Mawney do. 28 15 4
John Willfon do. 904
6. James Mac Sparrow do. 28 16 3
it. Cato Bourse do. 6 10 2
Prime Gardner do. 7 \\ q
Jo&phWiJkcv do. >848
Cornelius Drafkill do. j8 4 8
Pero Finch do. 69 7 (j
Dublin Brings do. 17 4, g
Bridget Stake do.. 19 16 it
Ed ward E after brooks do. '9 4 1
Cuff Arnold <!o. cjo 3
Prime Clarke do. 16 6
John Mc Donna! <J6. i 247
13. George Robbins do. 21 o u
John Morris Obrien do. 25 19 2
Prirre ftrown do. 41 17 ii
Solomon Mathews do. 33 5 6
Tack Siffbn do. 40 7 f
Newport Greene do. 35 3 7
Ebenezer Czfar do. 11 £ g
John Elliott do. 21 o 3'
Reuben Th°rp do. 23 o 2
Thomas Randal! do. 24 11 2
Thomas Durfee do. 22 11 6
Daniel Hammon 29 o 3
Richard Hopkins do. 45 3 o
H' nry Hazard do. 25 3 3
Levi Cole g 4 1 x
Allen So.lihwoitß do. 18 ig 3
Richard Allen do. 74 18 j©
Dcc. 23. VVilliam oh demand. 13 9 o
Ichabotl Simmons do. 411
John Brov-Ji do. 11 >9 4
John Gavit <io. id 16
William Ackman do. i 8 £
Jack Coddiugion do. 710
Caesar Gaidncr do. 812 7
Toby Coyes do. 711710
John Wiltfon do. 63 16 5
*S- j ohn Gavet do. 66 6 i
John Garrifoa do. 3
IN OBEDIEN'CE to ihe atore recited Ad of
the General Aflembly, I do heicby caution all
per Tons from receividf, any of the above men
tioned Notes, without the moll plenary proof
being 1 made ifia 1 they were bnUtiaed from the
office by gehcineVocumenis iiUm the soldiers
fcry\cf t lo «Hom the
wcatT uitO rtur, or from ekcir icpfrtcuu«
lives 01 auoimcs.
HENRY SHIRKVRN*,
Ccnciat-*ficaliAer.
Nmport, Me, 14. t 7 6j. 3 W
By THOMAS JONMiON, DAVID
STUART,it DAM EL CARROLL,
E/Tjuires t
- Public taifttagti 41c. VrilM*. tin
Cii| of Wmfu*gtn t far ihc >*crtaM*«f,C«tt
grcft, »nd loubni prrn—iii fctdcwrtft
the yen 1800-*-. ) I
A LOTTERY
fOR THfc IM OV hV F. N T O * Tim
Federal C itv!
50,000 Tickcu at 7 dollars, tr< 350,00 c dollars.
LKt drtfdiesi viz
. Ktit; to coll j
t jCafi Prite
I ditto
l «WVc
1
it ditto'
ib ditto *
to iittd
too ditto
too ditto
400 ditto
l'iooodiitb
<1j,606 ditto
kX>o* ■ mir
Ifrh
'•#* '
«<s»
SO
I*
P»i#e«
BS'*®3 BltWw
50,000
By this fcMMf M hafl tmimkt nf the tfclJ
etf will rrtdr£ rf> <iw;firttAlMC »dvcnulr«r t :
yrt iit WrfWltfWlll g»i« its' irj
*"** »">
. Afcfcoogb fcjw tfcpcacc j««»&n)y *u
lead thr cQqd«Sing.fif .ike. Utfrty,fwfeh Cir
pencc »4/J bf fr«pkl the
Commi&ner; hfytng, K ,rrd tq,j>{dc«i «»
turn a fufScieni quantity of excejjettjiecfjkine
lOßtber »nbvhflxß ad*j>tc4 \ol)Vot ibekfliel
a'nd for thf oul-boyfcj, itWjvijpcrOl 3if, tqrtuv
cnii're msy be fa.riy JrmtMirr mm Jfea
oo rxaihioatton, so exceed »u Iwt fMUriti t|Uf
luvf erp oftrcd uifhc Jfi (hj¥ o?
K ; r.w» •?,»"*
9M, wist be Witenrf
fortunate p6ffc(T<ir 6f iltf
its Domltcr.—Aft (lie rtf Tier priits
wtiknitnl iti^S tflif litlfr*wtt±,bf
the City Treasurer at Withmglon, «r li bel
tottk W Banks >1 aiy bt
ftft (hecoiiveaitacy at ikctnwUi ntateipt
The drawing will cotiiinrtne.un tks
<J'h of Scptcibfiqei Bfif, it ttfc City o#
*-«
■ Ticket* imwtek** qf Co).,Wn. PktmihtAf
T>e»farer of Weapon ;
CbarlcOon, Sooib-Ciiolifia ; (ujm Wfi| f ti
vannah; RteSi*. J* ma WeJt Q Co. jtoVnyc;
Mr. ?«rf Cilmn, BoAob ; and, at Ik) «tci
places as wiil lie heieallcr publilbrd.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the best Pian of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL qr INK, with hot and gold
Bath&, Stable*,.and other out houses, if prejenud
on or before the # 1 oik of April next] and a nre
terence will be giv» n to the Artife for a Con ?
tra&, provided he be duly qualified to
com pleat his The ground on which
the Hotel and out notifies are to bp wuj
be a corner lot of about 90 bv 200 feet, wi«h a
back avenue to the ftablfs, &c. Sefiions ar<4
eft:mates of the expense will fce expected
with the elevations, Qcc. compleat ; and 50,3©<5
dollars trust be regarded by tfie Aichitett asthe
Utmost limit in the exprnfe" intended for this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the Cit^ 1 '
March 6, X 793.
to ttat vbitx.
(£3" THE Editor proposes la continue thi
publication of the Gazette of the "United
States, for dijlant circulation, after the jirj? of
December next, on the fo!toui*g terns, viz.
It fhali be publijhed on Wednesdays and
Saturdays, on paper oj the Medium file— -'a hick
is larger than the present.
The price, Tb'tt OoUmyr «ui»i«>clibt
of postage.
S ascriptions to so receive J by the icfpeHHi fj.
htafiers throughout the Union, or such other per Jons
as may fee proper to colled them.
The papers to he forwarded by fejl twice a iveAL
No packets to contain left than si x papers—and no
fubferiptions tb be received for a Ufs tertk than fix
months.—Paymehts to hi confiantly fix rtmtfii in
advance.—"twenty per C'.nL aeduflion front the fvice
of the Gaietti, mill be alhnoed to those u>ho col
leS aiidforward the fubfetiptiori money, free of ex
pense, in full of all charges for their tiotble in the
business.
Tflt pnHi'dtio* wiH contain di wfS&h * Witty 6f
original ejfays—foreign and dem*Ji:c intelligence,
and a fvnlnar} of the pr6ceatingj of the legijlatute
of thi Onion, tic. £/c.- MUt.lioi luitt be fold
to difpalctiing the pipers with puncluaJit\, and Sub
firihers may depend on teething thim a* tegiilar/y,
as the pops arrive.
June 8.
TICKETS
1.. ih« FEDERAL CfTT LOTTER"*,
M»y iie tiad it S'A JiftJEL COOPF.'lt't trity.
30,c00
*5,000
JO.GCO
'Kffak
1 o,occ
>0,66 a'
' fo;<>o6
l6iM6
>«,ob* I
to,**o
lySAn*
«■' »; -i*y '
#M»w*