A NATIONAL PAPER, RUfILI&HkP WSDUKSpAXS AN© SATURDAYS BY JOHN FF.NNC, No. 34 , NORTH HFTH-M REll', PHILrt Dt.LPH 1A
[No. 113 of Vol. IV.]
1 A
0 u% : ■ i r *, f *&W J"*4%>, . r
■ sfywitrM _ jr-i:.
Sketch of the in this important cafe,
continued.
JUNF. if.
Mfl. I>JG£RSOL Tor the captors ? firft en
deavored io fliew, that the violation of '
one part of the treaty, by proceeding in this
cafe would annul the whole. To this effect
Ke cited -4 Vaf, Sec. 40. He could not re
concile the proceeding l ; of the Executive jp
arresting the prize and detaining her, with
the exf>refs words of our treaty of amity and
commerce with France. Even if the proper
ty was ,wre(led from our hands the Court
*vould not liave a right to declare the t prize
illegal.
from the Universal Di&ionary, pa£ell2
he read the word l ? of part of a treaty bstweer
France and the United Netherlands, in Tub
ft,nee nearly the fame as the 7th »rt. of cr
treaty with France, and at("o page 234., •
ofanother t e.itv, containing similar
on the oart of the HbellantS (he asked) to fitew
cases wherein a conftrqltion has been put up
on the provisions in the'e treaties similar to
that contended for. If none can be adduced,
the cau e surely cannot he supported.
Hecited Lee 77, 78,81,220, and 2H» to
Piew that it is the duty of him who is neutral,
not to interfere iii determining the question
'<■' prize or no prize: 3 Grotius, chap. 9, Tec.
S—fays, It is faid y that when the capture is
' >Und on neutral ground it forms an ekcep
ti in'; but Burlamaque combats this opinion.
Bynk, 191, 194 fays, it would be unfair
that a court Ihiufd have power to restore
without the power to condemn. In the caTe
now beTore the Court, it is not contended
that there is power to condemn.-—A faithful
pftfervance of treaties, he remai ked, is the
best mjthod r>f a'taining re'pe& and jireferv
irigpeice. A capture on neutral ground js
an offence to the neutral power ; but it be
longs to the Executive only to obtain redraft
by means of negociation ; the Executive is
the ftifly organ of goverrtmeot jyy which wc
-vith foreign nations.
Mr. Raw!.- had cited 3 Vat. fee. 132, to
ffiew that if a power at war attacked an ene
my ori neutral territory, a wrong is done to
the neutral country ; this he admitted £ but
he in fitted the Executive alone is competent
to demand reparation.
Many observations had been made by Mr.
Rawle, on the extent at sea of our territorial
Claim. He ditfered as to the extent of that
claim and conceived it more confined than it
was endbavn *ed to be laid dawn by that gen
tk"n*Y>.—i. Vat. p. 116, (ays, that the do
minion of a Rate is as far as is neceflary for
its fafety ; if the fa£ts dated in the libel were
fcoinpared with this rule, he conceived, that
bo jull ground of Complaint could be formed
by us. Oor treaty with France, the Ne
therlands, and Sweden, are indefinite on this
head,—" near the coast,'' is the expreflion.
The indefinite nature of the queflion ren
dered it a much fitter fubjeft for negociation
thm for a legal decilion.
He turned to the E-icyclopsßdia, article
Gunnery, to (hew, t at a 24 pannder will not
throw a ball to the difiance of quite three
m trj.
• Jtodge fetors tilM'd tb« attention of the
counfelto tSe ptriiir,'before the court, via.
whether, if the tapture <*s« made on tieStral
kerrl fry. then can the court take cognizance.
The quett'on. Mi. In : >erfol said, is a qnef
ti"u of priz- and no .riac, the very qucftion
fxr>ref'!y precluded by treaty. From 16
Viri'r. 603 It appcais plainly, that to give ju
tifdnSoii c a neot ai cvnrr of admiralty, it
mxifl: appear, that rhe con tries to which the
capto-s and belong are at peace with
each i;the r . He cited Mo.loy 14, if, to the
farhe poii t-'
2 Stiowe' ;>32. In thi 1 : ca e the arifwer
by the Court was, it' you think your-
apply to the King in council.
Juitice J.'.v's argur.ient was cited tn lhewr
that this rase had Ix-rrer be dec ded in A jtt
■Stial court. it was enough to ar.fWer-that
t:ie framer * of the treaty nevti contemplated
• riecifion of this kind in cal'e of dll'agfee-
IlK'lt.
« Code des Prfffes 877 had been referred to.
The cafe there recited and that before the
Court are ve\-y Hiifimilar. The Fosters were
Merchants tftab'iijhcd at Bourdeaux ; France
was at peace with tlse United States ; their
veile) was taken by an American frigate ; tf»e
Coin t of Admiralty could condemn 35 well as
return.
Magens 487. The court of that country
to whom ue captors be'ong determine the
queft<on of prize or no prize; and tlierb can
not be any other equitable mode of tii.il.
Grotius 601, was al'o quoted as cootaining a
cafe or opinion in point.
Mr. Sergeant on the fame fide.
Vattel Sates the great jcaloufy that *xifts
•etween belligerent powers relative to the
condti&of neutral nations, wlwtfc fliould bt
conleqiiently ««; y tauti-u-thujy tlwy, .ijj any
manner irrterfeif Is ithtir qutirrels. A neu
tral nat'oo ih.mld coofider both parties ?s
riftlit. frizes become the property of tlic o
tereigns> in a ciegree, who gave the com
million to the captors } they are not to be
meddled with ; bat cur treaty withf ranee is
explicit on t;hat fc?ad v
a Va?. Sec. 346 to 349, to down, that,a
oatipn has no right to judge between an indi
vidual and a State. Sec. 2(0 to tie
fame point nearly ; a neutral nation fcas no
right tofrt itlelf up as judge between belK
gerent powers unleft by tlip agreement of
both Rarfies. 4. Inft. lays down, as ift
■ Vin. 600 that before a ca% of capture can be
'brought before a neutral admiralty court it
must be lliewn, that the sovereign of Hie
country where the cause is instituted be at
peace with the countries where the parties
belong and that t|io/q countries are alio at
peace with each other.
Lee exjjrefsly fays that in cafe of uifuljti oft
to a'neutral nation, fatisfa&ip.n mull be
demanded by the executive and the buftnefs
fettled by'negotiation. If it was admitted
tiiat admiralty courts could interfere in cases
like the jjrefent, privai;csrs.cjrcumftauced as
the Citizen Genejt. js to be % \ypul4,
with their captures, ever keep out of the ju
rifdi&ion of those courts, and then the exe
cutive must at last be resorted to. One pow
erful reafop the executive should fettle
differences flrjfing from a violation of a neu
tral territory is, that having the public force
at their command, they can make those neu- ,
tral ri£?its more refpelted.
The counsel on the other fide appear to
fuppote that a republic pofTefles fewer of the
rights of l.bverejgnty because their,executive
is uot so energetical that in absolute go
vernments ; but Montesquieu fays well, that
in every sovereign State their exists tbe fame
quantum of power,—power complete for feJf
preferf ition and the vindication of wrongs.
Hp adduced a recent cafe in point: An Kn
glilh merchannnan at the JEfaulkland l/les,
which are claimed by no nation aiul looked
Upon n$ common propei ty, flopped by a
Spanish sloop of war, her rudder blocked and
fails taken. through their cx-^
agent c T einSncted and obtained £on
cejfiions and reparations of damages.
Shall the Captain of a merchant
man, he asked, be the guardian; of our rights,
or rather shall not we undertake the task of
vindicating them without his interference ?
Suppose we should go into the merits of
this cafe and find that the capture is a good
one, the court however could not condemn it.
The cafe from Bynkerfhoek, he conceived
by no means in point; neither that from the
Code des Prises, as had been dated by his col
league.
Upon the whole, he recapitdlatcd, that a
neutral court of admiralty cannot judge be
tween belligerent {towers. That if tLere is a
violation of territory, the court of admiralty
cannot obtain red re hut that it must be lei t
to the executive ; that there is no instance
of a court at law vindicating the rights of
neutrality; th'at the injured party muff ap
ply to the fotereign ; and if we are iujured
we must fettle the bufmefs by negotiation.
>rt
dvX-
Mr. pau(ince:ui, fie to re the court adjourn
ed, wilbed to fall their attention to M' l oil.
'Vrva'tifcii made by of a Hiner- ;
itlce Mtweien ilelibevateW-taking ii »e(£bllli a ,
neutral .porr, or eipturin'g her ttMffrirf tlie
neutral territory |a the lull rff^Huit.
Adjourned to $e aft«rn4M«
, vrgtmntii ott «*f,]
Mdffri. Hanson & Bond,
I fend you a copy of the letter directed tty
the Club of French Patriots of this Town to
their friend Capt. Ferrey, commanding the
privateer Sins (utcltc. By publiftiing it jr
ymir uieful and patriotic Gazette, you will
oblige your servant and brothei Republican}
CH£RUI.
By order of rhe Committee,
Jane 14, 1 79>
N. B- The anlwer will be translated far
your next.
TRANSLATION
Of ah Address directed by the Club of the.
French fcatrfotjs of Ale*amirja, tu thej*
triepd C otuin Ff.**£Y, commanding ,{be
Krenf li Schooner jatt 1 Lutyte, and presented
by fcitiztfn ChEßur, at Baltimore.
C.iTizjN CAPTAIN,
r r , HE Fren'patriots, your friend', of
X Alexand ia, incit'i-3 1-y love for their
cionfry, and aftua'c'd by refpefl for fhofe of
t-.--ir brothers wit" are its defenders, of what
ever denomination, bave charged Citizen
Ciier.i tn acquaint yi u srith the efy?em they
have conceived lor your invincible cou awe.
Well cl iiK'Oa,:t: 111 cbt 'inue t» rifl thewmd
ot the l>i''"d e riiiie to lib? rjr? putp,e thrjai
of tlief/-fierce li.ifoiis, nNj 01.te boasted to
poflef' :ktf - .P'll' them know that, as
we woe ei:u.n to tb«tn at a" time" when we
449
Saturday, June 29. 1795.
'GW,
fmirted under the rod of tyranny, now, free
;i(»hHeans,«« witt bo fuperinrs. What
*>Vy it is W fight in I'uch a cause ! and how
deeply yqu feew to &e convinced of this trsth !
Far, give us leave to observe to yott, Captain,
that at the rate at which you go 011, you
would soon convert Gioroe himfelf, to free
dom. The Sewfpapers every day mention
yoijr exploits j and a few meetings like the
one you had with the ]oJ/ph, Fanny, &c. would
be more than fnfficifnt ro convince the vjle
soldiers ofdefpotifm, that the cause of liberty
i t the best. These men are deaf to anyargu
nents but those of cannon. Be aflured there
fore, Captain, we look upon you as one of the
best missionaries.the National Convention has
sent to these (ho,res,
If you dp not perfuacfe, you defeat them.—
Your ijiode is equal to any other. Slaves dis
regard whoever do not conquer them. In
vairr you would reason with them ; they think
themselves born t» fertfe; they fear, as foes,
thofg who offer to be their deliverers ; an un
accountable distrust is the lot of the ignorant.
We have displayed the rights of man through
the channel of our Nati<m»T Aflemt>Kes. The
uuitcrfe firft wondered at our bftldnel'"., but
after, they arfmmrd owr wisdom. None
Ltvt tyrants have t embled : tliey were;afraid
tfcit libel ty, the taafis of oiir new system of
government, Riould extend its {hade as far as
their defplated lands; then they commanded
tWr fubjefls to take arms, t those wretche*,
like vile Haves, have run to the field of battle.
Wro are those they are going to mtirder !—
Their berjefaftors. What will be the confe
qu<nce of the conquest for which they are so
eager? Universal slavery. Anil can we look
upon such men as our brothers ? No, Captain,
tliey do npt even deserve our pity.
Arm again, and go to figbt them ; do not
be afraid of wanting.men. There is not a
true Frenphqian who is not determined to
jj^ive up his life rather than to fee the cause. of
his country deftrteA If our brethren who
inhabit our mother country, art not fufHcient,
we are ready to unite ourselves frnm tbefoor
parts of the world, to form an immoveable
phalanx, which nothing but one co|r.mon<jeath
wall annihilate,'or » complete vifto.rv dissolve.
With the greateil rjfpeft for your courage,
rvfeffcyMfr ettMJSu trrari, fit, your
friends, the French Patriots of Alexandria,
Cherui, D. F. Donhant,
Neb/on, John Daranne, •
Conde, Robert Duboti,
John Baffin, Lethoint;
John Petit, Be Joy.
P. S. We think it our duty to mentiort to
you the kind and fraterjal reception ,your
prize, t;he Join, met with in this (larbijijr
'from our generous allies. They manifelted
the joy they felt for our success by a fylute of
cannon, which we answered ; and wit'fi the
more delight,, as we were persuaded of the
sincerity of their hearts. It is the chatafter
iftic of Freemen to be friends.
all.) June i
SAL
ADDRESS ofr vftE toivn or Siziyi;
To GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prcjident oj thcUnitcdStatei ij Amsrica.
-%\i,
FULLY and deeply imprefled
with the wisdom, propriety and
policy of tlie measure which you
have lately adopted in i(filing your
proclamation, w hei ein ii isdeclared,
that the duty and interell ot the
United Sratrs require, that they
should with sincerity and good faith
•adopt and piiifne a conduct, friend
ly and impartial towards the belli
gerent powers therein mentioned ;
and contemplating with heart felt
furrow the calamities and dillrefs
of mankind invaiiably accompany,
ing and neceliarily incident to a
Itate of war ; and at the fame time
viewing, with the m pleating and
and grateful emotions, th> happy
and fiourifhing lunation of these
\ftatei, Under tht prcfcnr excellent
copllitutjoti, iii the ;tdiiiTi|iiration
of which so fnuch is due to yo j m>.
tegriry, impartiality and wisdom,
ever wa'Chlul io p'iorftf/ce the true
interests of the citizens thereof :
We the freeholders and other in
habitants of the town of Salein io
legally and duly met
in town meeting, cannot refrain
from thus unauimouily exprefling
to you the pleasure and fatisfWiion
which we received on feeing that
Proclamation ; and are induced to
take the eai lieft opportunity of a (lur
ing you ofour fixed and determined
relblotion offtritftly tor joying with
[Whole No. 4£jv]
its objetTt, and diffcouatenancing and
difcouragjng Ihe atremptsnfall per
sons who, regardless of their duty,
and willing 10 injure the true inter
est of tbefe states, fiiall at*t in anv
manner contrary to the injunctions
therein contained.
And permit us further to add,that
from our knowledge of ilie fett'i
rnents of our fellow citizens in this
part of our common country, we
have no doubt that the watchfulnefa
and paternal care of the Supreme
Magistrate of the United States.aid
ed and assisted by the exertions of
the peaceable and good citizens
thereof, will effectually prevent the
fmaJieft deviations from the rtri<steft
neutialiryv tfciN reflore, preftfrve
end keep our infarrt Republic in the
cheering- wnd foftering hofom ot
peace ; and make and continue us
the friends and brothers of the g* eet
family of mankind.
May Jtft, 179?.
, , TfIS ANSWER,
Yo the Freeholders and other inhabitant!
of the town of in Matfucltu
fetts.
Gentlemhk,
PLACE.D in the fituaiion I am by
the free voice of mv fellow ci
tizens, it becoinps a duty, pleasing
as it is strong, to porfue fucn aiea
fures as appear best calculated 10
promote their true interests.—Un
der this iinpreflion I iflued the late-
I roclamation, declaring thetieutra
lity of tfie United States ir. the pre
sent contest between France and o
ther EJuropean Powers.—ln making
this declaration, I was persuaded
that 1 J poke ib« wishes of my conn
rrymeti, without violating any po
litical or moral obligatjpn.—And
the evidences of fatisfatftion which
have been exhibited on this occasi
on, as well as (heaff'urances of goo*l
Citizens to life their influence »n
preserving the, peace and prosperity
of our infant Republic, afford a new
proof of that liberal and enlighten
ed sentiment which has been In oft
en and so honorably manifefted by
them on great occasions.
G. WASHINGTON.
Foreign Intelligence.
LONDON, May ).
From Tuejdaj'i London Gazett*.
Tcurnajr, May 3.
ON the Ift inft. the French at
tacked the advanced posts of the
left wing of the combined army,
but were repulsed in all their ar
tempts. On the fame morning the
French also attacked the advanced
posts 011 the tentre, but were there
likewise repulfcd : They ft»fFer#d
in these fe»eral engagements a cort.
fiderable loss both of men and can
non.
We have this day received letteri
from Bruliells, dated the 3d inft. m
the afternoon, one of them inclos
ing the following letter, that jn6-
ment come to hand, dated
" Mont, May r.
" We liaye taken by allault the
mountain of Aufin, i league distant
from Valenciennes, which was
strongly fortified with cannon, and
interceded the communication of
the four roads. We have taken se
veral prisoners, and we are allured
40 or 50 pieces of cannon. How*,
ver this may be, it is certain that w«
have polleflion of the mortmain ( f<»
that we ran keep a check of tlie
camp of Famars, and get pofie(li< 11
of Valenciennes with more facility."
Extrc(l oj a letter from Dbv<r,Ma> j.
" The Capt. of the Packet f rom
Oflond, jull arrived, reports that a
ireflenger arrived at Ofiend from
i!ie armies yeHerday afternoon,who
bt ought account of an atfio;) inwinch the Frenrli had ftiftaiued a
coufulcrable loss. The .Duke o.f
York was engaged in'-it, but parti
culars are dm (Twed«?- ■ &
"The whole capture of the Spanish
Galleon, or Remitter Ship, was on
Saturday last adjudged to the cap
tors, and (he Spanish nmbafiador
lias aflented to it, after a minute in
veftig.uion of the fubjeci. Lord
Hood will be entitled to a fbare, as
commander in chief of the fleet
which made the capture ; and it is
laid that his proportion alone will
ainouut to 60,0001. sterling.
Lord Hood, as commander in
chief of the Mediterranean fleet,
conies in for a l6ih of this prize,
whatever it may turn out to be, and
all other captures made by ships un
der his orders, which mult neit his
lurdfliip a very capital fortune.
In consequence of the cargo of
the rich re captured Spanish ship
being allowed by the government
as an entire prize, a troop of light
horse was dispatched from London
on Monday lad to Portfinouih, to
escort this immense wealth diredtly
to town.
The French Convention have vot
ed to their minister at war the enor
mous fuin of $2,800,000 livres ; a
bout 2,300,0001. to provide subsist
ence for the armies.
Bntffcls Gazette Extraordinary.
■" May 2d.
" The French came to attack us
Vefterday in force. They were at
firft repulsed from St.Sauve. There
is reason to believe that their inten
tion was to turn tile left wing of
our army.
" It was determined to make the
second line march by Sebourq, Con
chies, and Prefien. Conchies has
been burnt ; the enemy were heat
en and pursued as far as Famars."
<< Four divisions of Braco drove
them from Saten, and took from
them 6 cannon, with their horses.
" About 1 P. M. the firing ceas
ed, but it began again in the right
wing of the army about 3, and was
still continued at seven.
" The corps under Gen. Clair
fayt are flill in pursuit of the ene
my. Our loss is ellimated at almost
200 men. Our ihafleurs ('tigered
greatly and would have been dis
persed, had it not been for the sup
port of the cavalry.
The French have loft a number
of men. Befidcs 13 ammunition
waggons, we have taken from them
8 pieces of cannon, of which 4 are
four pounders, 2 eight pounders,
and onea 12 pounder, together with
a 14 pound howitzer.
" We wait for more circnmftan
tial details of this affair."
A very important action took
place on the ift inft. between a part
of the combined armies anil the
French.—On the morning of the ift,
the French advanced a considerable
body of troops against the corps of
Pruflians under General Knoblef
dorf, occupying the pelt of Maulde,
and likewise against the body of
Aoftrians occupying the important
port before Conde. The relief of
that place was evidently the objetft
of the French. They meant by ad
vancing against the Proffian Gene
ral, and the advanced corps of the
Prince of Saxe Cobourg's army, to
keep them in check, while tliey
made their chief attack upon the
Auftrians, under cover of a large
wood of which the French were in
pofTellion. They commenced their
attack at five in the morning, and
between that and the evening made
four different attacks, the last of
which, the rnofr vigorous,commenc
ed at three, and was not over till
between fix and seven in the even
ing. The Auftrians (tood all the
different attacks with the otmoft
bravery and firmnefs. The great
ell part of them were engaged with
vnufquerry in the wood. General
Knoblefdorf detached several corps
from ' his poll to their affiftanre,
which he could do with greater fafe
ty, as lie was supported by two bat
talions of British from Tournay.
The French were at length com
pletely repolfed, and several pieces
of cannon were taken.
The lof's was confideralile on both
fides. The French were greatly fo
perior in numbers. They recreated
in corfufii.n tc F?.mars. Itvrasfup
pofed that :lie conlequenee of this
victory on the pan df the allies
umft be attended with the fall of
Conde.
'1 he Paris letrers received yester
day are dated the 301b u!V> They
IVaie that the city was perfectly
tranquil, and that nothing new had
occurred. The triumph of the Ja
cobins on the acquittal of Marat
was unbounded. In Briflot's jour
nal this acquittal is mentioned as
the ruin of France.
The French are said, from very
good authority to have ten fail of
the line at sea.
Accounts have been received frpm
Jersey, of the date of the 29th ult.
It appears that on the 23d, a French
fleet, under three frigates
of considerable force, flood very
close in with theifland, which occa
sioned the alarm guns to be fired,
and thebeacons to be lighted. The
French, however, towards the even
ing flood away, without attempting
any descent. One or two of the
French ships flood so dole in, as to
fire on some of the batteries 011 shore.
Arrived at Plymouth the Niger
frigate, of 32 guns, commanded by
Capt. Kenrz.— It isfaid (he had been
cruizing off Brest, and brings intel
ligence that there are in Brest wa
ter 2; fail of men of war, befldes
frigates and sloops.
Conde still holds out, but the gar
rison is reported to be in such
tress for provisions, that itmuftfoon
fall. All the heavy artillery end
ammunition will be before Mentz
by the jth of May. From that city,
the inhabitants, to the amount of
15,000, have been expelled by the
French, to prevent a famine. The
garrison has still some supply of corn
left, and a little horse flefh, but no
eggs nor vegetables. It is provided
with wine, which is drank abun
dantly by the French, who pull to
pieces the old houses for fire-wood.
There is no longer any hope of the
capitulation ofMentz. An attempt
has been made to inundate the
French mines near the city.
It is reported, that the Commis
saries from the National Conventi
on have ordered all the English;
merchants residing at Dunkirk, to'
quit that town in less that 24 hours
from the lft instant.
Private letters received at Brus
sels from Nantz, inform that that
city has surrendered to the victori
ous arms of the counter-revolution
ists The fame letters announce,
that Philip Egalite was carried back
to Paris ; thole who were carrying
him to Marseilles, being afraid of
meeting the Marfeillefe upon the
road.
The Empress of" Russia has taken
pofteffion of a considerable part of
Poland. She has attempted a juf
tification of her conduct, which has
much the fame truth and justice to
recommend it as the King ofPruf
fia's reasons for seizing on Danjzic.
The King of Poland was given to
understand by the Ruffian Minister,
that unless he attended the confe
deration at Grodno, Prince Louis
of Wirtemberg, would be appointed
by the Imperial court to succeed
kini on the throne.
Russia, after having divided Po
land, we now fee dictating to Swe
den. What may she not be expe<t
ed to do, as soon as the affairs of
France are fettled to the fatisfatti
on of the combined powers ?
Intelligence is in town from Paris
of so late a date as the 27th ultimo,
when all remained in sullen tran
quility.—The report refpedting the
state of the granaries was, that they
contained a fufficient supply of corn
for a fortnight. The royal family
were fafe and in health.
Recruiting for the armies conti
nued in the capital ; but in the pro
vinces it every where inet with 07"
position.
Some fituatioru ofconfequence on
the frontiers, towards Spain, are
said to have fallen into the hands
of that p«wer.
The combined armies, we do not
understand, have made any progress
since the last accounts received—
neither have we heard any thing
more of the meditated attack upon
Dunkirk.
It appears to be the deterniinati
450
on of France in the ensuing cam
paign to act trruiielj on i)'C defcn
(i»e ; thus firmly occupied, it is ge
nerally considered, that wiil
be enabled to exhaust the patience
of all tlieir enemies.
By a gentleman arrived in the
Eliza, Blynn, ar Penzance, from
Nantes, from which place lhe failed
on the joth inlt. we have the fol
lowing important particulars :—
The Iloyalilts were in great force,
which was augmenting every day.
They were in polleHion of the whole
south bank of the Loire, and part
of {he north ; different actions had
taken place with various success ;
•but the Royalifls wete in pofleflion
of Machecoul and the Me of Hoedic,
near Bellifle, and were so daring as
to approach the very gates of Nantes
in final! parties of 20 or 30. They
were headed by Galton, a bold, de
termined, entetprizing man.
The present commercial distress
certainly does not proceed from any
diminution of the acftual capital of
the country, but merely from the
circuinftances of the sudden check
given to the circulation of Paper.
This is an evil which will find a cer
tain remedy in time,and mean while
the Minister with true patriotifin,
does every thing he can to alleviate
it.
At the present moment of alarm
and distress amongst the mercantile
and manufacturing communities,
the Minister, with that vigilant at
tention to the trading interlls of the
country which has uniformly mark
ed his administration, has expressed
a wish to adopt lome plan that may
(lop the evil now existing, and give
frefh energy to public credit.
We daily hear of new stoppages
among persons, many of whom have
ever been considered as men of large
real property ; on a very minute
and fair enquiry into the truth of
t his fuppofiiion, we have the belt
reason to believe the faifi is so j and
that a very large proportion of mer
cantile houses, which have been
lately obliged to suspend their pay
ments, is ltill solvent, and well able
to pay every demand in the course
of time. At Manchelter, Liverpool,
and other large trading towns, par
ticularly at the former, this is
well authenticated ; but the failures
at the country batiks have flopped
the circulation of money so Sudden
ly, that present engagements have
not been able to be fulfilled.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Atril IJ.
The Convention were about to
proceed to a difculfion on the peti
tion of the 48 fedtions of Paris, a
gainst 22 members of the Conventi
on, when one of the Secretaries read
a letter from the commissioners on
the Northern frontiers, ftating,tliat
the French troops had been obliged
to fall back »n the glacis of Valen
ciennes. They ascribed this check
to the treachery of the xoth regi
ment of foot chasseurs, ported in the
advanced guard, who deserted on
the commencement of the a<fiion.
Letter from General Dampierre.
" Valenciennes, April 13.
" The enemy attacked our ad
vanced polls at this place in differ,
em: points ; they were, however,re
pulfed with considerable Joss. In
the advanced guard which I com
manded we had much the advan
tage. 1 have refunied the camp of
Faniars. I cannot bestow too high
praises on the courage and ardor of
the soldiers. 1 can affureyou, that
in a little time the army will reco
ver that superiority which it loft
only by the treachery of thole who
commanded it.
(Signed) DAMPIERRE."
Banere read a inanifeffo drawn
up by Condorcet, refpedting the in
sult offered to the national repre
sentation in the persons of the four
commiiHoners arretted by Dumou
rier.
Mauce and Garran de Coulon com
municated fonie letters written to
them by the commissioners Camus
and Bancal ; which Hated that they
were well ; that they had heen al
lowed pens, ink, and paper, and
that they were conduced to Maef
tricht by ealy journeys.
Ar ril 17,
United States.
N E W- Y O R K, June 95.
C«,*v tf« I'll'" freni * gentleman in Wi/nt-rgien,
.Vcrlt-Caro/ha, tn the printer of the Daily Ai-
rtrlifcr, June 16.
" On Thursday last was brought into this
port, an E'iglifli sloop called the Providence,
from Montego-Bay, James Robertfnn, maftei,
a pr ze to the French privateer Le Vainrjueur
de la Baftile, Francois Henri Hervieux, com
mander—since when thep»iva«£r hcriclf has
arrived.
« 11 appears that the Vainquer de la Baf
tile, late the Hector of Philadelphia, wa« pur
chased in CharleJton by C»pt. Hervieux, at,
officer in the French navy, who having,
through the medium of the Corj/ul-of the
French Republc rending in Charie/ton, pro
cured-a commission for his vefTel,' armed her,
and having caused the American papers be
longing to the Hector to be depnfitcd at the
Custom Houf; in Charleston, failed on a cruize.
ii That between Cape Fear and Cape Hu
man, at the distance of 4 <-2 leagues from
land, he fclhin with the Providence, which
he captured after having chaled h«r some
time.
n Since Captain Hervieux's arrival, it
basing been rumoured that a certain Gideon
Olmftead, forme; lv the owner of the Hector,
had acted as an officer on board the French
privateer, at the time of the capture oi the
sloop, although sn American citizen, two
magifcrates of the county, in pursuance (as
they supposed) of the proclamation of the Pre
sident of the United States, thought proper to
i.Tue their warrant for apprehending of fa d
Olmftead —and, npon examination, conceiv
ed the evidence to beof a nature, and his ca>a
and fituatiop, such as defirrved to be Pubmit
ted to the cognizanc' ofthe Federal Judiciary.
They accordingly canfed Mr. Olaoftead to e»-
ter into a recognizance in the ium ot 2oa|. for
his appearance at the next diftrtft court, to
be holden fur the diftrift of North-Carolina,
on the firft Monday in July next.
" Captain Hervieux is acknowledged to
have treated his prisoners with unusual gene
rosity, nor have they since their arrival in the
harbor, been at all restrained of their liberty.
" The Captain of the Briti/h sloop tailing
advantage of this indulgence, availed him
felf of the countenance and fopport he has re
ceived in this town, and by advice'of ton Tel,
has instituted an adtipn of trespass 3Tair.fl the
commander of the privateer »nd Mr. Olin
ftead, in the sum of 2000 L opon pretence that
the capture was illegal.
" Vexatious as is this suit, it v 11 cci'tainr
ly be produdtive ot the most fe >ous n con
venience to Captain Hervieux. who is iliii in
the custody of the (heriff, and .will probably
discourage that liberality in others which has
prompted his conduct in this circumstance—
since, far from releaiing their prisoners in
speedy humanitv, caution will tecic 1 the
French cruisers in future, the necelfit 7 of
confining, at leafl:, their English captives till
they reach the territories of the French re
public, or until the chance of war (hall bring
them'relief and liberty."
FOR THE GAZETTE.
Mr. Fenno,
AS attempts are making very dangerous
to the peace, and it is to be feared not
very friendly to the conftitutton of the Uni
ted States—it becomes the duty of those who
wifn well to both to endeavor to prevent
their success.
The obje&'.Qns, which have been raised
against the proclamation of neutrality late y
issued by the Preiident, ha*e been urged in a
spirit of acrimony and inve&ive, which de
monstrates that more was in view than mere
ly a free difcuflion of an importantvjpublic
measure ; that the difculfion covers a design
of weakening the confidence of the people in
the author of the ineaiure, in order to remove
or let Ten a powerful obstacle to the fu£Cefs of
an opposition to the government, ,v bich how
ever it may change its form, according to
circumstances, seems still to be adhered to
and pursued with persevering indnftry.
This reflexion adds to the motives con
netted with the'roeafure itfelf to recommend
endeavors, by proper explanations, to place
it in a just light. Such explanations at lealt
cannot hut be fatisfa&ory to those who may
not have leisure or opportunity tor pnrfuing
themselves an invelliggtton of the fubjeft,
and who may wifli to perceive, that the poli
cy of the government is not inconsistent with
its obligations or its honor.
The objections in question fall under four
heads :
i. That the proclamation was without
authority.
2. That it was contrary to our treaties
with France.
3 That it was contrary to the gratitude,
which is due from this to that country, l° r
the succours rendered us in our own revolu
tion.
4- That it was out of time and unnecc.-
fary.
In order to judge of the solidity of the fii ft
of these objections, it is neceffhry to examine,
what is the nature and design of a proclcma
tion of neutrality.
The true nature and design of such an act
is—to make known to the powers at war and
to the citizens of the country, whole govern
ment does the ast, that such country is in the
condition of a nation at peace with the belli
gerent parties, and under no obligations of
treaty, to become an ajfociate in the war with
either of them that this being its situation,
its intention is to observe a conduct conform
able with it, and to perform towards each the
duties of neutrality ; and. as a consequenceafih'ij fig; of tilings to give tracing to all
within its jurifdittion to aWfam from acts'
that (hall contravene those duties, under the
penalties which the laws of the land (of which
the law of nations is a part) annexes to arts
of contravention.
This, and no more is conceived to be the
true import of a proclamation of neutrality.
It does not imply, that the nation which
makes the declaratiou will forbear to pel form
to any of the warring pbwers, gny stipulations
in treaties which can be performed, without
rendering it an ajjociate or party in the war.
It therefore does not imply i<i our cafe, that
the United States will not, make those dif
tinaions, between the present belligerent
powers, which are stipulated in the seventh
and tweuty-lecond articjes of our treaty with
Frapce; because thele diftinftions are not
incompatible with a Itate of neutrality : they
will ill no ftiape render the United States . tin'
ajjociate or party in the war. This must be
evident, when if is considered, that even to
furnilh determinate succours of a certain num
ber of (hips or troops, to a power at war, in
consequence of antecedent treaties having no par.
ttcular reference to the extjlivg war, is not incon
sistent with neutrality; a polition well e(ia
bliihed by the doctrines of writers, and the
practice of nations.*
But no special aids, succours, or favors
having relation to war, not politively and
precisely stipulated by some treaty of the
above description, can be afforded to either
partv, without a breach of neutrality.
In stating that the proclamation of neutra-
Jitydoesnot imply the non-perfoimance of
any ftip'-alations of treaties, which are not of
a nature to make the nation an associate or
party in the war, it is conceded, that an ex
ecution of the Clause of guarantee contained
in the eleventh article of our treaty of alli
ance.with France would be contrary to the
sense and spirit of the proclamation ; because
it would engage us with our whole force as an
xjjveiatr, or auxiliary in the war t it wou'd be
much more tnan the cafe of a definite limited
fuccoui, previously ascertained.
It follows, that the proclamation is virtu
ally a manifeftation of the sense of the go
vernment, that the United States are, under
the cinumjlances oj the cafe, not bound to execute
the claule of guarantee.
If this be a just view of the force and im
port of the proclamation, it will remain to
fee, whether the President in issuing it acted
within his proper fpbeie, or stepped beyond
the bounds of his constitutional authority and
dutv.
It will not be disputed that the manage
ment of tho-affhirs of this country with fo
reign nations, is confided to the government
of the United States.
It can as little be disputed, that a procla
mation of neutrality, when a nation is at li
berty to keep out of a war in which other na
tions are engaged, and means so to do, is a
vjual and a. proper measure. Its main objefl and
ejfecl are to prevent the nation being immediately
ufponjihle Jor acts done b\ hs citizens, without the
• fnvity ot lonntvanee of the government in contraven
tion ef the principles oj neutrality.+
An obje& this of tlie greatest importance to
a country, whose true interest lies in the pre
servation of peace.
The inquiry then is, What department of
the government of the United States is the
proper one to make a declaration of neutra
lity in the cases in which the engagements of
the nation permit, and its interests require
J'uch a declaration.
A correct and well informed mind will dis
cern at once, that it can belong neither to the
Jegiflative, nor judicial department, and of"
conrfe mult belong to the executive.
The legislative department is not the organ
ofintercourfe between the United States and
foreign nations. It is charged neither with
making, nor interpreting treaties. It is there
fore not naturally thaj organ of the govern
ment, which is to pronounce the existing con
dition of the nation, with regard to foreign
powers, or to admonifli the citizens of their
obligations and duties as founded upon ,that
condition of things ; flill less is it charged
with enforcing the execution and obfe-rvance
of those obligations and those duties.
It is equally obvious, that the a& in ques
tion is foreign to the judiciary department of
the government. The piovince of that de
partment is to decide litigations in particular
cases. It is indeed charged with the inter
pretation of treaties, but it exercises this
fun&ion only in the litigared cases, that is
where contending parties bring before it a
fpecific controversy. It has no concern with
pronouncing upon the external political rela
tions of treaties between government and go
vernment. This position is too plain to need
being insisted upon.
It niuft then of necessity belong to the exe
cutive department to exercise the function in
question, when a proper cafe for the exercise
of it occurs.
It appears to be conne&ed with that depart
ment in various capacities—As the organ of
intercourse between the nation and foreign
nations— a* the interpreter of the national trea
t:es in thrffe cales in which the judiciary is not
competent, that is, in the cases between go
vernment and government— as that power
which i% charged with the execution of the
laws, of which treaties form a part—as
that wiiich is charged with the com
mand and application of the public force.
This viev>.of the fubjeft is so natural and
obvious, so analogous to general theory and
practice, that no doubt can be entertained ot
its justness, tmlefs such doubt can be deduced
from particular provisions of the constitution
of the United States.
* $He Vat el, Beak 111. Ch. 6. Sec. toi.
4 Seel'at el Book 111. Chap. 7. Sec. 113.
L?t u~> f?? then if cauftf for such doubt is
to be found in tj)ftt constitution.
"The article of the co'nftitution of
the United States, ffe&ion firft, establishes this
general proposition, that 44 the executive
power fliall be belted in a President of the
United States of America."
The fame article in a succeeding fe&ton
proceeds to delineate particular cases of exe
cutive power. It declares among other
things, that the President fha.ll be commander
in chief of the army and navy of the United
Srates, and of the militia of the several Rates,
when called into the actual service ot the Uni
ted States ; that lie fliall have power, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate, to
make treaties; that »t shall be his duty to re
ceive ambalfadors and other public ministers,
and to take care that the taws be faithfully executed.
It would not conlill with the rules of found
confhu&ion to confjdcr thia enumeration of par
ticular authorities as de>ogatmg fiom ihc more
comprehensive grant contained in the general
clause, further than as it may be coupled with
express rcftri&ions or qualifications; as in re
gard to the co-operation of the Senate in the ap
pointment of officers and ihe making of treaties ;
which are qualifications ofthegeueial executive
powers of appointing officers and making trea
ties: because the difficulty of a complete and
perfect fpecifir.ation«ot all the cases of executive
authority, would naturally di£late '.he use of
general terjns, and would render it improbable
that a fpecifi cation of certain particulars was de
fined as a substitute for ihofe terms, when an
tecedently used. Yhe different mode of expfef
fion employed in the conftuution in regard to
the two powers, the legislative and the execu
tive. serves to confiim this inference. In the
article which grants the legislative powers of the
government, the exprrlhons are, 44 All legislative
powers herein granted, fliall be vejled in a Longrefs
of the United States." In that which grants the
executive power, the expreflions are, as alieady
quoted, 44 The executive power shall be
velled in a Prefidenc of the United Stales of
America."
The enumeration ought rather thfwffore Id ba
considered as intended by way of greater cau
tion, to foecify and regulate the principal arti
cles implied in the definition of executive pow
er : leaving the reft to flow from the general
grant of that power, interpreted in conformity
to other parts of the constitution, and to the
principles of free government.
The general do&rine ot our constitution then
is, that the executive power of the Nation
is vefled in the President; fubje& only to the
exceptions and qualifcations which are exprefled
in the inftrumerit,
Two of these have been already noticed—the
participation of the Senate in the appointment
of officers, and the making of treaties. A third
remaim to be mentioned—the right of the legif-
lauire " to declare war & grant letters of marque
and reprilal."
With these exceptions the t x ecutive pow
er of the Union is completely lodged in the
Prefiderit. This mode of construing the consti
tution has indeed been recognized by Congress
in formal a&s,upon full consideration and de
bate. The power of removal from office is an
important And since upon general
principles, for reasons already given, the lifurng
of a proclamation of neutrality is merely an ex
ecutive ast; since also the general executive
power of the Union is veiled in the President,
the conclusion is, that the step which has been
taken by him, is liable to no jult exception on
the score of authority.
It may beobferved that this inference would
be just, 'if the power ol declaring war had not
been vested in the legiflatiire, but that this power
naturally includes the right of judging, whether
the nation is under obligations to make war or
The answer to this is, th®t however true it
may be, that the right of the legislature to de
clare war, includes the right of judging whether
the nation be under obligations to make war or
not, it will not follow, that the executive is in
any cafe excluded f/om a similar right of jodg
mcnt in the execution of its own fun£lions.
If the legislature have a right to make war on
the one hand, it ?s, on the other, the duty of the
executive to preserve peace till war is declared ; |
and in fulfilling that duty, it mud neccrtarily j
poflefs a right of judging what is the nature of '
the obligations which the treaties of the coun
try impose on the government; and when in
pursuance of this right it has concluded, that
there is nothing in them inconsistent with a state
of neutrality, it become* both its province and
its duty to enforce the laws incident to that state
of the nation. The executive is charged with
the execution of all laws, the laws of nations as
well as the municipal law, which recognizes and
adopts thole laws. It is consequently bound,
% by faithfully executing the laws of neutrality,
when that is the state of the nation, to avoid
giving a eauie of war to foreign powers.
This is the dire£l and proper end of the pro
clamation of neutrality— It declares to the Uni
ted States their situation with regard to the pow
er? at war, and makes known to the coihmunity,
that the laws incident to that situation will be
enforced. In doing this, it conforms to an
established usage of nations, the operation of
which, av before remarked, is to obviate a re
sponsibility on the part of the wholefociety,for
secret and unknown violations of the rights of
any of the warring parties by its citizens.
Those who ©bje£t to the proclamation will
readily adinir, that it is the right and duty of
the executive to judge of, or to interpret, those
articles of our trcati< s which give to Fiance par
ticular privileges, in order to the enforcement
of tbofc privileges : But the neceflary confe
quenreof this is, that the executive mud judge
I what are the proper bounds of those privileges—
what nghis are given to other nations by our
treaties with them—what rights the law of na
ture and nations gives and our treaties permit, in
relpeft to those nations with whom we have no
tieaties ; in fine, wha- are the reciprocal rights
and obligations of the United States, and of all
and cach of the poweis at war.
The right of the executive to receive ambaffa-
Jors and other public miniftcrs, may serve to il-.
uftrate 'he relative duties of the executive and
legifla-ive departments. This right includrt
that oi judging, in the cafe of a revolution of
451
government in a foreign country, whether (he
new ruK.-;s are competent ocgatfs of the national
w 11, mid ought to b lecogiiized ov not: And
v here a tie<ay antecedently exilts between the
United Siates and luch nation, that right uWolves
the power ol giving operation, or not, to (uch
treaty. For until the new government is acknow
ledged, the treaties between the nations, as tar at
lealt as regards public rights, are of coutfeiuf
pended.
This power of determining virtually in the
cafe supposed upon the operation of national
treaties, as a consequence of the power to re
ceive ambassadors and other public ministers, is
an important instance of the light of the execu
tive to decide the obligations ot the nation wuh
regard to foreign nations. To apply it to the
cafe ot France, it there had been a treaty ot alli
ance offenjxvc and defenfive between the United
Statr» and that country,the unqualified acknow
jedgjnen* of the new government would have
put the United Stiles ttt a condition to become
an in the war in which France was en
gaged— and would laid the legislature un
der an obligation if required, and there was
othtrvife no valid excufe,of exercifiug its power
of aeclaring war.
This serves a« an example of the right of the
executive, in certain cafes,to determine the con
dition of the nation, though it may consequen
tially affect the proper or improper exercise of
the power of the legislature to declare vrar. The
executive indetd cannot controul the exercise of
that power further than by its exercise of its ge
neral right of objecting to all a6U of the legifla
tui* ; liable to being overruled by two-thirds of
both houses of Congress. The legislature is free
to perform «its own duties according to its own
sense of them ; though the executive in the ex
ercise of its conftituiional powers, may eflablifh
an antecedent state of things, which ought to
weigh in the legislative decisions.
From the division of the executive power,
there results t in reference to it, a concurrent au
thority in the diftributcd cafcs.
Hence in the cafe ftattd, though treaties can
only be made by the President and Senate, their
a&ijvity may be continued or suspended by the
Present alone.
Noobje&ion has been made to the Preftdeni's
having acknowledged the Republic of France,
by the reception of its minister, without having
consulted the Senate ; though that body is con
nefled with hini in the making of treaties, and
though the consequence of his ast of reception
is to give operation to the treaties hereio f ore
made with that country. But he is censured
for having declared the United States to be in
a Date of peace and neutrality with legard to the
powers at war ; hecaufe the right of changing
that (late and declaring war belongs to the legil
lature.
It defcrves to be remaiked, that as the partici
pation of the Senate in the making of
and the power of the legislature to declare war,
are exceptions out of the general " executive
power" veiled in the P/efidcnt, they are to be
construed ftriftly, and ought to be extended no
further than is eflential to their execution.
While therefore the legislature can alone de
clare war, can alone actually transfer the nation
fiom a state of peace toa ftateof war—it belongs
to the 11 executive power" to do whatever else
lUc ]*W3 of nations, co-operating with the trea
ties of the country, enjoin in the intercourse of
the United States with foreign powers.
In this distribution of powers, the wisdom of
our constitution is manifeftea. Jt is the pro
vince and duty of the executive to preserve to
the nation the blcflings of peace. The legifla
t»re alone can interrupt those blessings, by plac
ing the nation in a ftateof war.
But though it'has been thought advifeable to
vindicate the authority of the executive on this
broad and comprehensive ground, it was not ab
fokitely necessary to do so. That clause of the
conilitution which makes it his duty to "take
care that the laws be faithfully executed," might
alone have been relied upon, and this simple
process of argument pursued.
The Pfffidcnt is the constitutional r. x ecu tor
of the laws. Our treaties and the laws of na
tions forma part of the law of the land. He
who is to execute the laws, must firft judge for
himfelf of rheir meaning. In order to the ob
servance of that conduct which the laws of na
tions, combined with our treaties, prescribed to
this in reference to the present war in
kut'ope, ir w<*» necefTtry for the Prelident to
judge for himfelf, whether there was any thing
in our treaties incompatible with an adherence
to neutrality. Having judged that there was
not, he had a right, and if in his opinion the
interests of the nation required it, it was his duty
as executor of the laws, to proclaim the neutra
lity of the nation, to exhort all persons to ob
serve it, and to warn them of the penalties
which would attend its non-obferv««nce.
The proclamation has been represented as en
a&ingfome new law. This is a view of it en
tirely erroneous. It only proclaims a fait with
regard to the exifiingjlaU of the nation, informs
the citizens of wh««t the laws previously ellab
11fHed require of them in that state, and warns
thein that thefc laws will be put in executiou
against the infra&ors of them.
Philadelphia, June 29
AbJirtH oj fuithcr European Nezcj.
Seven thourand Engliih troops have arriv
ed at Oftend—lt is expefteri that Dunkirk
will be attacked—The extent of territory
which his Majesty the King of Prussia has ac
quired io Poland, is estimated at lopo square
leagues ; with a population of twelve or thir
teen hundred thousand fouls—The Pollfh No
blemen at Vienna are set out to pay homage
to the Empress and the King of Pruilia—lt is
reported that the French minillryare taking
nieafures to detach Great-Britain from the
general combination of powers—A Spanish
(hip, the N. S. de la Conception, from Vera
C'UZ, taken by the French privateer Dumou
rier, K retaken by the Achilles privateer of
Weymouth, anA carried into Baltimore, in
Ireland —this is another Regiftei Ship, which
was taken in company with tUat re-captured
by the Ph*ton Frigate—The bank of England
difcotmteri in one d i v , Vi, ; K f - 10'V!*r <;i
twelve hundred t!;ouland pound*-— j be iiiJii
Catholic convention have voted an addre:s o*
thanks to the-King, acknowledging their gra
titude for his generous recommendation, by
which they have received substantial benefits
from the wisdom and liberality of Parliament
—also an addtefs to the Lord Lieutenant—
they also voted 2350.1. for a petjeitrian ftattie
of the King, and donations to j'undry of their
friends—After exhorting their brethren to
join in every conftifutional mode o* promot
ing a Parliamentary reform, they concluded
by declaring that they now look upon tnt-'in
feives as freemen—farad rheo d <fok*d tile
convention.
The Custom H >use Revenues ( r ays an
Irifti paper) of tlie port of London have fallen
in che month ending the 25th April, fifty per
cent! The communication between France
and Oftend was wholly flopped the sth May.
The French in their late attack on ti»e Ac
ftrian lines made great Havoc in the prince
de Ligne's Regiment. The Englifti and Ha
noverian troops under the command of the
Duke of York it appears have been in some of
the late engagements with the French. —A.
number of valuable captures have latel> been
made by the French privateers from the En-,
glilh and Dutch. On a motion for receiving
a petition from the town of Birmingham rel
pe&ing; a Parliamentary reform, Mr. Pitt was
in the «iajority for receiving the fame.
The partitioning of Poland by the Empress
and King of Prussia is a measure that meets
with general execration.
The Snow Pallas, Capt. Avery, arrived at
New-York iaft Monday afternoon, from Lon
don. Advices by this velfel are to the
May.
The May Packet is also arrived at New-
York, from Falmouth, but brings no intelli
gence later than has been already pubKflicd.
The Ship Laurens of Chark-fton, South-
Carolina, bound to Loudon, was taken by a
French privateer carred into jfiavre-de-
Grace, on suspicion of having Bririth proper
ty on The ca r e of thh velTel having
been investigated by the Court of Commerce
at Havre, it was decreed that the ship should
be restored to her Captain and owners—and
the owners and Captain of the privateer was
condemned to pay all damages.
Governor Moultrie of South-Carolina, has
iflWd a proclamation, prohibiting all veiTe's
from the windward Iflards from immediately
proceeding to the city of Charfcfton, or until
they Jiave been previously examined ; this or
der is in eonfequence of information received
that a peflilential disease has lately been pre
valent inGrenada and other Weft-India iflauds
to windward.
Preparations are making in almost all parts,
of the United States for a splendid celebra
tion of the great American Anniversary, the
4th July—
Hail the day ! its triumphs tell,
Then the pow'r of Dejpots fell —
Raijetoferaph Jlraim the /ay,
This is freedom's Holiday 1
The militia guard which had been put on
board the prize Ship William, was on Tucf
day last removed, and the veflel delivered up
to the captors—the Pre fid exit of the United
States having, it is said, previously decided
the question relative to her capture.
A French merchant fliip, mounting 4 cannon,
4 swivels and 2 blunderbuflcs, is arrived at Bal
timore, after having beat off an Englilh priva
teer Hoop mounting 10 or 12 guns.
By recent information from the Southward,
it appears that only four towns of the Creek
nation are hofttle to the United States. In the
demolition of these towns, the Creek Chiefs
fay they are ready to co-operate with the whites.
The old American Company of Comedians,
are arrived in town from New-York, we hear,
the Theatre is to be opened the beginning of
next week.
Extratl of a Utter from a Captain of a vejfel at
Falmouth, dated April 28.
ci There is a very hot press here but not a
man taken from any of the American vefieU."'
An India paper of the 29th Dec. printed at
Calcutta—contains a melancholy account of
the fate of Mr. Munro—only son of Sir Hec
tor Munro—«-who loft his life by a Tyger.—
Mr. Munro and some others had landed on
Cox's Island to divert themselves with (hoot
ing deer—having fatigued themselves, at half
past 3, P. M. they fat down on the edge of a
jungle or thicket, to eat some cold meat—
when a royal Tyger sprung on them from the
buflies, seized Mr. Munro, who happened to
be fitting down, by the head, and ran oil with
him as easily as a dog would with a kitten.—
Three /hot were fired which wounded the
beast, who dropped his prey, but so horribly
mangled that he died in great agonies 24
hours after. The Tyger was foppofed to be
9 feet long and about 4| feet high.
PACIFICUS.
By an A& of Congress, passed at the lad ses
sion, the Gold Coins of England and Portugal,
are to pass at the fame rate as at present, after
the firft of July—that is, 89 cents the penny
weight. But the Gold Coins of France and
Spain, and the dominions of Spam, will from
that period pass at the rate oi 87 cents the pen
nyweight.
Married, at Shirley, Virginia, his Excelltney
Henry Lee, to Miss Ann Carte*., daughter
ot Charges Carter, Esq.
ARRIVED*/ the PORT oj PHI LA DEL PHI A.
Ship Fame, Blunt, New-H.^mpfhire
Brig Houlbrooke, Hughes, Gibraltar
Charlotte, Pride, Liverpool
Schr. Recovery, Fortefcue, Trintdada
rwoStftria, Post, Xev.-p i.vultriLe
Nor:is, Cape- Fran.-ois
Freedom, Cooper, St. Croix
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Slooi
6 per Cents, , , 7 / 7
3 perC-nt», s /,o
Deferred, io j 2
full ihares Bank U. S. 5 per ctat. a^r,
f.TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Joac 26.1 793.
NO"I ICE is hereby give a, that proposals will
be received at the office of the Secretaiy of
the Tieafuiy, uotil the fourteenth day of Sep
tember next inelufively, for the fupoly of all
Rations which m«y be iequ;red for the ofe of
the Uuited Slates, fiom the firft day of Januavy
to the ihirty.fi (I day of December 1794, botn
days Urdu live, at the places, and within the
diituds hereafter mentioned, via.
• 1. At «mv oiace or places betwixt York-Town
ar«d Cailtflr, in the ftaic of Pennlylvaota, and
Pi:ifouigh,York-to%» n&Cailifle.
2. At any place or places from Pituburgh to
the mou'bof B?g Beaver Creek, and at the mouth
of Big Beater Crerk.
3. At any place or places from the said mooth
to the upper fallsof the (aid Big Beaver, and at
the opper falls.
4. At any place or places from the said upper
falls to Mahoning, and at Mahoning.
5. At any place or places from the said Ma
honing over to the Head Navigation of the rivnr
Cavahoga, and at the said Head Navigation.
6. At any place or places from the said Head
Navigation to thr mouth of the said river Caya
hoga, and at the said mouth.
7- At any place or places betwixt the month
of thr Big Braver Creek, to the mouih of the
riv-r Muikingum, and op the said river to the
Tufcarowas, and at the Tufcarowas and thence
over to the C'yalioga river, and theoce down the
/aid river 10 its mouth.
8 A* any place or places betwixt the* iooth
of the river Mufk-ngum and the rnou:h of (he
Scioto river, and at the mouth of the (aid liver
Scioto.
9. At any place or places betwixt the month
pt Scioto river & the moaih of the Great Miami,
at the mooth of the Great Miami, and from
thence to the rapids or the falls of the Ohio, and
at the (aid rapids.
10. A', any place or places betwixt the mouth
of <he Great Miami, up the said Miami to and
at P.qje Town.
11. At any place or places from Fort Wash
ington to Fort Hamilton, and ai Fori Hamilton
At anv place or places from Fort Hamilton to
Fort St. Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
12. At any place or places from Fort St. Clair
to Fort Jefferfon, and at Foit Jefferfon.
>3. At any place or places from Fort Jefferfon
to the field of adinn of the 4th of November,
1791, and at the said field of action.
14. At any place or places from the said field
of adion to the Miami Villages, and at the
Miami Villages.
15. At any place or places from the said Mi
ami Villages to the falls of the Miami river,
which empties into Lake Erie, 2nd at the said
falls, and from thencc to its mouth, and at its
mouth.
16. At any place or places from the mouth of
the said Miami i;ver of Lake Erie to Samiulky
Lake, and at Sanduflty Lake.
17. At any place or places from the said San
dufky Lake, to the mouth of the river Cayahoga.
18. At any place or places from the mouth of
the said river Cayahoga to Prefque Isle, and at
Piefque Iflr.
59 At any place or places from Prefqoe Isle
to the ft ream running into Lake Erie from to
wards the ladaghque Lake, and thence over to
and at the said Jadaghque Lake,and thence down
the AHeghany river to Fgrl Franklio.
cc. At any place or places from Prefque Isle
to Le Beuf, and at Le Beuf.
21. At any place or places from Le Beuf to
Fort Franklin, and at Fort Fia&kiin, and from
thence to Pr.tfburgh.
22. Ai any place or places from the rapids of
the Ohio to the mouth of the Wabalh river, and
from the mouth of the said Wabafh river to the
mouth of the river Ohio.
23. At anv place or places on the E-ft fide of
the river M-ftfliopi, from the mouth of the Ohio
river, to the mouth of the Illinois river.
24. At any placc or p'accs ftom the mouth of
the said Wabafh river up to Fort Knox, and at
Fort Knox.
25. At any place or places from Fort Knox op
the (aid Wabalh to Ouittanon, and at Ouittanon.
26. At anv placc or places from Ouittanon,
up the said Wabafh, to the head navigation of a
branch thereof called Little River, and at the
said head navigation of Little River.
2j. At any place or places from the (aid head
navigation ot Little River over to the Miami Vil- !
lage.
28. At any place or places from the mouth of
the river Tent flee toOccochappo or Bear Creek,
on the said river, inclusively.
29. At any place or places from the mouth of
the river Cumberland to Nafhviile, on the said
river, and at Kaihville..
30 And at any place or places withm thirty
miles ol said Nafhviile to the Southward, Weft- j
ward or N'orthward thereof
Should any rations be required at any places,
or within other diftrich, not fpeeified in th»*fe
proposals, the price of the fame to be hereafter j
agreed on betwixt the public and the contractor.
The tations to lie supplied are :o consist of tbe
articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound ot beef, or jofa pound of pork,
One quart of fait, }
Mwo quarts of vinegar, f
- n *•%. * * > per icc ra f .
• n * • » - I
Two pounds of soap.
One puuod of caod
The tobefurnifhed in such quanti
ties as that there (hall ai ail limes, during the bid
term, be fufficient tor the consumption of tbe
troops at each of the said pods, for the space of at
least 3 months in advance, in good and whole
some provisions, if the fame (hall he required.
lii» to be under Rood in each cafe,that allloffes
sustained by the depredations of the enemy, or by
means of the troopsof the United States, (hall be
paid for at the pticcs of the articles captured or
destroyed, on the depositions of two or more
creditable charsders, and the cetiifirate of a
commifljoned officer, afcertainin* the circum
ftancesof the loss, and the amount of the articles
for which compensation is claimed.
The for the above fappties will be
made either foi one vear, or for tioo years, a> may
appear eligible. Person* difoofed to contrast
will therefore confine their offers to one year, or
they make their p r opofinon»fo as to admit
an election of the term of two yearr.
The offers inav compr*fe ell the places which
fcavc been fpecified, or a part oi them oulr.
Hercule De Sercey,
Frc* Lioi*nt, IJLticf St. Doming ~
MAKES ana lei s all lots of Mugs Jacks
Porr.Qgcrs, Cops, Stew-Paoj, Lamps, dec.
10 1 10, plain or japanned—He also mends old
fin work. As he porks cheap, be hopes for the
public encouragement.
No. 23, Racc-ftreet, near Front-street.
June 22.
HERCULE DE SERCET,
DE Hie de Sc. Dominque, travaille
en frr Blanc, de toute forte dc maniercs a
ccmiwodc et a bon marc he.
A Philadelpbie, ce 22 Juin, 1793.
No. 23, Race-llrect, pres Fiom-ftreet.
fOR SALEy BY
MATHEW CAREY,
At hu Store, No. itS, Mai k.ci-ftrcet,
Pm I LADtL PHI A,
AMERICAN MUSEUM, from its
X commencement 10 January, 1787, to tU
termination io December, 1792. in twelve vo
lumes, price, neatly bound and lettered, nine
teen dolltrs and one fifth.
The opinion of the President of the United
States rcfpe&ing this work, is as follows :
" I believe the American Museum has met
with extensive, 1 may fay, with untverfal ap
probation from competent judges ; for I am of
opinion, that the work is not only eminently
calculated to disseminate political, agricultural,
philosophical, and oth-r valuable mfoimat.on ;
bat that it has been vnijorm'y condußed viik taflc 9
attention, and propriety. If to these important
obje&s be fuperadded the more immediate de
sign of refcoing public documents from obli
vion—l will venture to pronounce, as my sen
timent, that a uozi ustri'L literary
PL AM HAS NEVER BEEN UNDERTAKEN IN
AMERICA, or one uox E deserving of pub
lic ENCOURAGEMENT."
[mm 5.
fUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Boeifilltr, al the Stone-Hnfe, it Stand Jlrett,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME IX, OF
ENCYCLOPAEDIA:
OR, A DICTIONARY o; ARTS,SCIENCES,
axd MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new :
»y WHICH
THE DiMitim SCIENCES AND ARTS
arc digested into the Form of DiflioS,
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS :
THIS VOLUME CONTAIN!
HYDROSTATICS, Hygrometer, Hißory of
Japan, I .eland, JenifaJem, Jews, India,
Intc&», Infurante, Ireland, Italy, K&mfchaika,
Knighthood, Language, Law, Legerdemain,
with a great variety of Biographical an 4 Miscel
laneous Article?.—lliuftrated with thirty-one
elegant Copperplates.
CONDITION S.
I. The wotk it printing on a fupcifinc paper,
and new typo, {call for the po'pole) which
will be occafionaily renewed before tlicy cou
traft a worn appearance.
11. The work is furnilhed in boards, in volumes
or half.iolumtE, as fubferibers chufe; the pure
ol the whole volumes, five dollars each, ot the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of i
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on fub
fcribiog, the volumes or half-volumes finilhed
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance,and the price of
each fucceediug volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered uniefs paid for.
111. In the courfeof the publication will be de
livered about live hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
far excecd in number those given in any other
fcientific difiionary. At theclofeof the pub
lication will be delivered an elrgant frontif
piece, the dcd .cst on, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It isexpeQed the work will be comprised in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
The fnhfcription will continue open on the
above terms till the firft day of September next,
to give opportunity to thofc who »se not yet
fubferibers, to come forward.
Those who have fubferibed, and got only a
small part of the work, are rrquefted to com.
plete their setts, as fir as published, as soon as
poflible, as after the firft of next September, by
which time the tenth volume is expe£ted to be
ready, the publilher will not consider himfelf
bound to make op those fetu which are not
completed up to that period.
Philadelphia, "June ig, 1793.
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprietors of the Ghfs-M»nufaclory. under
the Firm of
M'CL ALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BEG leave to inform the public,that they have
now brought their WINDOW-GLASS to
such perfc&ion. ss will be found, oo companion,
to be equal, in quality, to the best London
Crown Glass.
Having fixed their jmcef at a lower rate than
imported Glass, they are induced to believe, that
importations of this article will be diifcontinued,
in proportion as their works are extended.
They ptopofe to enlarge the scale of this hirfe
ness, and as the success of it will depend on th:
patriotic support of the public, thev be* leave to
foLcit their friendly patronage in the pursuit of
a branch which will inteieft e\ery lo»er of
AMERICAN Manufactures.
All ordeis for Wi kdovtGl ass. of snv fixe,
will be received at the Store of Rhodes and
MacGiecor, No. 234, Q'leen-ltreri, JCcw
York, 2nd at the Glils Wa'thoufe, N.>. 48
Market-street, Albany, virhich will be punduji.y
attended to.
IP" WANTED, fix smart i&in LADS, not
exceeding j6 years of agr, to be indmi/d as
Apprentices, and jeguUrly mltruQed la ifce
various branches of dab-Making.
Also, ilirce Window-Class Makers, to whotn
great encouragement will be given.
■*&/»1 >793- '
452
TBI +lEKBFXS OF THE
INSURANCE COMPANY OF
NORTH AMERICA,
Are del r»d to take Notice,
THAT the Conftitulion require* Payment of
One Pol ar on each Share; on the Second
Monday (tbc Bth Day, at July nrxt, on Penalty
of Forfeiture of the Money already paid.
Such Stockholders as have not made their se
cond luftalmeni, are informed, tha: Payment
will be received al the Company** Otce, N«.
119, South Froot-Strrfi, either 00 or before the
f*xd oay, as they may find it mod convenient.
EBEXEZEK HAZARD, Sec'r..
June 8 1793. ey/9j.
FOR SALE,
1360 Acrci of excellent
FAP MING or TOBACCO
LANDS,
Lying » a* com? of Aa&vt, m <i"
tmaof Vnjrtm, on one M the pri»cip*l
kittchfitf within 6* aiila *f
the Inter, (raU irkice it n ior bow
at fen or miln Ulii» h»ita.
Beside* the advantage? of these lands, for the
farmer or cultivator of tobacco, they are sup
posed, from a ftr.all though fuccefsful experi
ment made by the late ColfChifwell, to cootain
an abundance ol metals, which, if not of a pre
cunei (as has been even fuppoled) are certainty of
a very valuable kind. The belter howc»cr to
ascertain this fad, and p!ace the purchaser on a
fafe footing, in so hazardous a bufmefs, as all
tbofe fubterianeous researches, without the nt
rnoft certainty of an abundance of the desired
ore, are supposed to be, every reasonable and
necessary a&ftance or indulgence will be ren
dered those inclined to tn«ke the expeiimccr, as
well as every otheT necessary information given
by the printerof this Ga7ette in Philadelphia, or
JOHN NICHOLAS.
CharlottefviUe, Virginia.
Stock Brokers Office,
So. 16, Wall-street, N1 w-Yor k.
r T I HE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
X entirely to thr PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS ou COMMISSI ON, begs leave 10 of
fer bisfervices to hisfriends acd others, in the
line ofa Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the utmost fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Bofion. or any
other part of the United States, will be flridly
(U.)
NOTICE.
THE STOCKHOLDERS io the SOCIETY
for ESTABLISHING USEFUL XIANU
FACTURES, arc requcfted to take notice, that
the fourth aod last pay meat is due, and mud be
made on or the 13th day of July next,
cither to the Cafbier of the United States Bank
Office of Difcouoi and Deposit at New-York—
the Ca(hicr of tfce Bank of New-York—the
Cashier of the Bank of the United States in Phi
ladelphia—or John Bayard, ECq. in ihe cry of
New-Brunfwick, in the state of Kew-Jei fey.—
And that the (hares of all petfons neglf&njr ro
make such pay roent, and the monies by them
prcvioufly paid, will then be forfeited for the
common benefit of the said society.
That the fufcfcr:bcr is duly authorized to make
the requiGte tndoifmeuts upon the certificates of
shares, and that books of transfer are opened at
his office in Front-street.
NICHOLAS LOW.
Netu-Ymi, June >2, 1793. ( r P"3')
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, May 27, I 793.
500 Dollars Reward.
WHEREAS a certain THOMAS SLOCS
HH CANTT, has lately made his cfcape
from Baltimore County Gaol, 10 which tie was
committed under a charge of having robbed the
Eastern Mail, on the 28th day of January lafl :
Notice is hereby given, that a reward of five
hundred doljars will be paid at thu Office, 10
any person or per Tons who rt>ail apprehend the
said T/tom'aj S/ofi GunJt, and deliver him into the
custody of the keeper of the said Gaol, or into
thecurtody of cither of the MarQials within the
United States, so that the said Thmat Slefs Gar.ll
may be cfFe&ualiy secured, and forthcoming to
answer the above mentioned chatge
TIMOTHY PICKERING.
I\jl-K[ijlcr General.
The following is a description of the above
named Thomas Sloss Cantt: He is abrut
fix feet high, ilrait and well made, has light co
loured hsir, tied behind, fair complexion and
has a down look when spoken to.
City of Washington.
A.... January 7ih, I?QQ.
A UMBER of Lo«f in this Cuy will Le of.
feredfor sale at auft.on, by the Com mi f.
doners, on the 17th day of September next -
One fourth part of the purchase money it 10 he
paid down, the refidueat thieerqual annual pay.
menu with yearly intend on the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. CANTY, Ctrl tc HeCtm'rs.
Extract a s «n-A& of the General Aocml.lv of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City o» Wjihinßion
V /' B ; U I C °^ C<i ' V"* <" v foreigner wa, * r
deed or Bit//, ktreajter talc made, take ard ho: a / a , v,
mtAin that parLo) the Jaid 7e, , ii o r\ a!,(h he, u;'h.
" " tit five •***> cr as if te ujsa at,
ten of this State ; and the fame fandi !r.a, ie c.>n
"tied iyiitt, and tranfmitled to and bt n-eril'dh
>»' te,„ or relations, as lj he and the, a f r f
rft»u *(ve: P,ov,drd, That a/ ,
n virtue hereof, he euot'ed to atv/wlto or othe,
trun/ege «/a iiiizen."
V"- »9-
i TvJ c K £ T &
In .he KDtRrtL CITY I-OTTIitY,
y •"«! «i SA.\.UE». LoOPfcß's It'iy
epi2w
LEONARD BLEECKER.
THL IDITOR
UOST 'timefiy tkeje oj iu dijim. i«J.
JinkiTt who ire i« nrrcut Jer r,e Ctteite, fj
mem eif-nai }}f)ii{e.—Titfe ferjm* »-•.<> iti (
recmei J Mjcnptin mcr.ej n ku are defr.d
to remit tie fame. Tie ar 1 ear&gijir ue Gazette
hive auumwtei to e/eriou jme.nt—Seru*i, z,
tiey dretkeoth te/tmru to rerj
c*g*icme'.ti I'-lired IM tie pro/it* jt tf tin ex.
ferkvepmHcetii*. Juae 16.
CULA
or THE
HISTORICAL SOCIETY,
RzfpcßfuU? addrejjed evrry Cnttfmin f/ Same
» tieCftineit urnd tfl.tji of America.
Si*,
A SOCIETY H2l lately hero instituted In t^; 4
State, called the Historic a l ton rr, ■
:he proteffed defi'n of which n, 10 coll,u, 0., :
fcTTe and communicate, ma.erinlaforacon pi e ie
history of this coanirv, and accounts of all n u .
able efforts of human i.,ge..u y and indufi
fiom 1 lie beginning oi 111 (ettlemenr. In
fuancc ot this pun, ihey have alieadv ai.uff.d a'
Urge quantity of b».ks, pampblcu aad jnaaa.
fcripu ; and aie (hi! in (catch of more : A cata
logue ot which will be punted for tee :nlorn<>.
lion of tbe public.
They have alf> encouiag. d the publication of
a monthly pamphlet, in wn ch it given itie ie( u jt
of their enqjines, into the naiuia.', political a-<i
ecclefmlical hiltory of this countrj. I, r; .
quested (bat you would contribute to it* value
and importance, by aiteot'on to the ankles an.
nexed. The Society beg leave to depend cu
your obliging anf» er to tficfe hejds ..f inquiry,
when Icifure and opportunity v.-ill pirmit." '
Your letters addieffcd, free of cucnfe/loil e
fublcriber, will be gratefully recent, and dt. y
noticed in (he Society's publications; and y..,i
will have the fatislafiion of contributing to t pi
general flock of knowledge, with w! tch J
hope to entertain the public.
Ia tbe name, and byoroerol -he So ie
j»EMY BELKNAP,
kit' I" -£ ofTs 'i >o,,, *Wß#*«««:y.
itapelnfcUs, Met. 1,1-)fu
Articles on which the- SrdtlJ n^|
information.
«. The rime when your town or chv was "n
corporated ; its Indian name; when ihe fettlr
nient began; .whether it was in'tcriub'cd, a:<
by what means; to what Colony 01 County i
alterations, what they are, and when made.
2. The exploit#, labours and fullering* of tl't
10 war; particular account u! cz-.
vacations, deaths, captivities and redemptions.
3. Divtfions of your tow,n or ojv in p*riihci
and prccinft;, or the ereflion of new towns
within the formir limits.
4. Time of gath-ring chnrches of ever y de
nomination ; names ot the leveral M.niftrrs;
the timesof their fcttlemcn:, removal ind dean.'
and their age at the time ot their deaih. '
town, or within yonr knowledge, wh6 nave
been remarkable lor ingenuity, er.tt rprife, litfl
more, or anv other vaiuable 'accnmpliftmfn';
an account of their "iicrary produfiions, and if
poffi-ile, copies of them.
6. Topographical di fcripUon of your town
or county, and its vicinity r mountains, river*,
foods, animals, vegetable pruduaibns ; re.
maikablc falls, caverns, mineias, flonrt, fcflili,
pigments, medicinal and poifonOils fubflantcs,
their ufea and antidotes.
7. The former and present slate* of cultiva
tioa, and your thoughts on farther improve*
men;j, cither in refpefi to agriculture, roadsot
canals.
8. Monuments and relicks of ihe ancirnt la.
dians \ number and present Hate of any remaiu*
ing Indians among you.
9> Singular instances of longevity and fecun
dity from the fiift fettlemem to the prtftnt tiwie.
10. OafervatioDs on the weatner, diTcafpjt,
and the influence of the«climate, or o* particular
fiiuations, employments and aliments, efpeci
2''y 'he effefi of fpiriiuou* liquors on the human
constitution.
M* A cc i,wate bilH of. foccifying
IP Mfwliih, tlie proportion 6f Si rib? ana
death},aod the jocreafc or dicieafc ©if fK>f>uiii
lion.
12 Accounts of manufa&ures and fifheries,
and thoughts on the farther improvement of
them.
1 3- Modes of education, private or publi£{
what enconragemrot is given to fchbols and
colleges, and what is done to advance literature;
whether you have a social library, what is the
number of books, and of what value.
14. What remarkable events have befallen
your ft ate, county, town, or particular families
or per lons, at any time.
P. S, The Conrfponding Members of this
Society are requeued to tranfnvt co the Coire
fpondin5 Secre'ary, any hist >ru»! infoi mat ion
of which th y may be pofleffed, refpe&ing any
part of the American Continent and I (lands. to
gether with printed ads and journals of Afcm
bl es and Conventions, whether citil or ecclesi
astical And the S«x:iety will gratefully reetive
from them 120 from all other perfors
>ny books, pamphlets, inanufcnpts, maps or
plans which may be ufefal in forming an histori
cal cp'l. t^.«»n—;md «tV nvural or artificial pro
du£)i<ms \* hirh vbay rnUtgt the Museum.
The Libi irv *ad Museum are io au
apartment of Tancuil Hail. /ffiv jfrfipdefiroas
o* making a fearrh ?mnng the books **r manu
friots, many have access to them under such re
gulations, a> may be known by applying to any
onr of »h'* members.
l"fl publipJid,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone Houje, A'o. 41, Souli SeccnU-Stretl,
A CASE,
D"c: J jd n the Supreme Court of 'he United
Stmtes, in wliTch is dlfru.TVd the 1 Oueftion,
WHETHER A ST ATE IS LI ABLE TO BE
ay A PRIVA TE CITIZEN OF
'VNOTHETI STATE ?
Price Half a Dollar.
»'f
b
LETT til,