A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JVMtI FENNO, No. 34, NOPTH ■ftFTtjiS TRt.£PHILADELPHIA
[No. 102 of Vol. IV.]
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
IBIMJCHT4 O.M *B«
STATE OF AMERICAN INDIANS.
(Continued from Nt>. t,q, of ikis Gazetted)
No- VII.
Tils civilization of the Indians is a fubjeft
so very important, and yet ft> little in
veftioated, that in the firft attempt to bring
it before the public, little more than an enu
meration of expedients can reasonably be
pefted. Let the following ohfervations there
fore be considered as intended to excite the
public investigation of the fubjeft, rather
than fts a regular and digested plan proper to
be carried into e(fe<ft.
The experience of past age;, and of na
tions in Ginilar circumstances, may serve to
guide our relearchas in this new and interest
ing inquiry.
Tn the history of the progress of nation?
from ivirb irifm to civility, we find that tn9
worfliip of the Deity—the institution of mar
riage, and the eitablithment of private pro
perty—have entered into the foundation on
which the fuperftrufture of civil society has
b~«n trrefted. These are necessary to give
form an J permanency, to its establishment.
Each of these isofitfelf inefficient—it is their
union and joint influence, with the cffc&s
that naturally result from them, that give
lociety its perfect form. The investigation
of each of these principles which compose the
foundation of civil society, merits attention
in the divelopement of this fubjecl. Some
remarks upon the firft of them, will be the
substance of the present essay.
The idea of a Supreme Being, is either ori
ginally inftampt upon the human mind, or is
among the firft imprelfions whi,ch it receives
from theexercife of its own powers. All
men at times fee! their dependence upon a
Superior, and seek occasionally, by external
homage, to deprecate his anger and ferure his
favour. It is perhaps impoflible to efface this
impi eflion from the'human heart—it is the
Knjt which connects material with immaterial
existence. It is uncertain how far civil go
vernment would be practicable without the
aid of these sentiments. In its best form, it
is far from being a perfect work. The li
mited" eStertTßf its law;—the imperfection of
its fanftions—the inequalities and diftinftions
which it creates—with the temptations to
fraud, injustice and cruelty, are calculated to
cxcite envy and inquietude in the minds of
the least fortunate members of the commu
nity; who, without the co-operation of reli
gious principles, would be continually endea
voring to throw off all legal restraint, and to
dissolve the bands of the society, in order to
riot on the spoils of the public, or to re eftab
lilh it on a foundation more agreeable to their
wishes and interests.
The belief of a Supreme Being—infinite in
power, wisdom, purity, justice and goodness—
of a future ftatc—of retribution—of an uni
versal judgment, and of an eternal award
penetrates the heart, arrests the eon faience,
and restrains the impetuosity of the paiHons—
It leads to obedience and submission, by an
nexing the idea of duty to the facrifices of
pcrfona! interest, to the present order o
things, and by the profpeft of a period whei
an equitable distribution (hall be made by thi
Sovereign of the Universe.
A rut by enforcing the rights of inipertfeft
obligation—-by inculcating the exercise of the
fecial virtues—by reftralning fscret crimes—
by corroborating the authority of the laws,
and by giving additional energy to their fac
tions—it is admirably calculated to remedy
the inconveniences, and supply the defclts of
civil government. These principles are Am
ple and uniform, adapted to every capacity,
find suited to every stage of society and age
of the world.
In rude and ignorant times, men not hav
ing compact of mind enough to trace these
impre'fions to their source, or to deduce all
things from one simple cause, followed tlie
impulf.- of their imaginations and their pas
sions, In this state of mens' minds, every
deviation from the ordinary coui'fe of things
alarms their fears, and they have recourse to
superior and invifihle powers to relieve them
from the evils which theydiead. They ascribe
to a diftinft cause every uncommon event—
sod by tbefe means, multiply their Gods with
out number. They clothe them with the
pafKons and weaknefles of mortals, and pay
them an homage that corresponds to their
origin and tlieir attributes. Men of superior
sagacity have availed themselves of this
weakness—augmented the reputation of tbe
cut rent superstitions, formed them into fyf
teni. and made them the bafu of their laws
and policy. The introduction of laws and
government in most nation-;, of whose origin
we have any diftinft tradition, was effe&ed
in this manner.
Tbe holy religion tlrat we poffbfs, is indeed
in every Ifneament different from the systems
of superstition wh'ch the ignorance and credu
lity of mankind have invented. The one lets
before u» a ttandaid of perfect excellence,
which we are commanded at our peril to imi
Wednesday, May 22. 175)5.
tate—the other clothes the ofcjifis of its wor
lhip with the frailties of men. The one in
fctfeft lends to putity and virtue—the other,
to depravity and folly. What life may be
made of true religion in civilizing lhe Indians,
I will not pretend to determine —But that it
may be of some service, I think evident. If
superstition and falle religion were found ne
ceffiry to the eftabliftlraent of civil fociery
and cvvjl laws—Purely true religion is equally
nece!Tary, and will b« equally eHeciu.il. Such
is the attachment qf the Indians to their man
ners and cuftoijii—fach the ilrength aud vio
lence of tiieir paflions, and such the nature
and. number of their vices, that no change can
be introduced among them in these refpecls
but by interfiling the strongest paflions of the
human mind- No sentiments so easily rcach
the heart, and none so powerfully imp''efs the
mind, as thofe_ which relate to religion. The
doctrines, the precepts, and the institutions of
religion, are all calculated to enlighten, to
humanize and to interest the human mind—
to foften the manners, and to extend and
Strengthen the social affe&ions.
No principle will be so efficacious in chang
ing the habits of the savages, as religion—
This is evident not only from the nature of
tilings—the constitution of the human mind,
arid the power of superstition in pad ages—
but from the experience we have actually had
of the ef&&s of it on the temper and manners
of the Indians.
The success of Mr. David Braincrd among
the Indian 1 ? in New-Jersey, has been laid be
fore the public. By the indefatigable exer
tions and well directed zeal of that pious and
judicious miiHonary, a considerable number of
the fa-vages. were prevailed on to forfake their
wandering way of life—to form them fir lyes
into a society, and to attend to agriculture.
He established a school among them, and the
youth made great proficiency even during his
residence among them.*
In the history of the Five Nation*, we are
informed that by the exertions of two suc
ceeding miflionaries, they were reformed in
a great measure from the vice of drunken
nefs—from the practice of divorcing each
other on frivolous pretence I !—from the exer
cise of cruelty to their prisoners, and in some
measure from their propenfrty to war.f—,
From fucli favorable beginnings, what might
not he expected from a vigorous prosecution
of similar measures.
From these experiments we may infer, the
religion, pure, simple, and unadulterated by
superstitious ceremonies, or any falfe mix.
ture, would be a powerful inftrumeot in ef
fecting the civilization of our American In
dians—and a well digefled plan for this pur
pore deserves the patronage of the benevo
lent.
NO T %
/« addition to these inflances, / milht mention the
Jkccefs of the fcfuits in Paraguay % in South-America :
They brought the Indians to live in towns, /o cultivate
the ea*th, to exercise the arts, ra submit to civil fit*-
ordination, tiwi to aspire to liberal improve
ments.
* Life of Brainerd, p. 177 — 304.
+ Colden's Hijfory of the Five Nations.
FROM THE FEDERAL GAZETTE,
OF SATURDAY LAST
Yeflerdax afternoon, the citizens of Philadelphia,
agreeably to a notification for that purpose, at
tended a meeting in the State house garden. An
address congratulating Mr. Genet on his arrival
was read, and unanimoujly adopted—lt was im
mediately presented to the Mimfler, at the City
tavern, if at follows:
To Edmund Charles GENET, Minister Ple
nipotentiary i'rpm the Republic of France,
to the United States, —THE ADDRESS ps
the Citizens qf Philadelphia.
S I R,
The Citizens of Philadelphia are anxious to
convey their congratulations upon your arri
val, in terms the raoft cordial and acceptable.
We have, with pleasure, on former occalions,
acknowledged our obligations, and declared
-our attachment to the people of France J but,
at this moment, we are peculiarly gratified,
by recognizing, in the Minister of our firft
and hell Ally, the representative of a Free
Re public.
Impressed with the value of our political
independence ; recollecting, with an honest
pride, tlie Glory and Success, which, in the
pui 'uit of that o"hje£t, crowned the virtue
and foititude of America; and ettimating
the prefer, t reputat on a.id prosperity of the
union, as blessings resulting from the Revo
lution ; we cannot without gratitude, consi
der, bow great a portion of our triumph and
our happmefs, was derived from the zealous
and dilinterefted aid of your countrymen ;
nor can we without diffiir.ulation, fupprels
our joy, that the cation, which so generously
contributed to relcue the liberties of America,
has, at length, with unpai allelled magnani
mity, effablifhed her own.
From such feelings, fir, we have been na
turally led to contemplate the druggies of
France with a paternal eye ; sympathizing in
all her calamities ; ard exulting in all her
405
successes r but there is another interest, the
of Freedom and Equality, which adds
to the force of our aitivtion;, arid rgndars
the caule of France important tq every re
public, and dear to all the human race.
Be allured, therefore, that jnftly regard
ing the cultivation of republican principles,
as the best fecuritv for the permanency of
our own popular governments, we reft our
favorite hopes, at this momentous erilis, 011
the conduct of France ; and, earnestly giving
to the national exertions our wishes and our
prayers, we cannot refill the plealing hope,
that although America, is not a party in the
ex'fting war, ihe may still be able, in a Bate
of peace, to demonstrate the sincerity of her
friendfhip, by affording very ul'eful afliltance
to the citizens of her filter republic.
The well-earned character of a republican
and a patriot, has enf'itred for you the warm
est fentimants of personal refpedtand esteem :
and, whiie the law of nations, and the rights
of treaty, give dignity and energy to your
oflicial ftatiors; the endeavors of the citizens
will nor, wetriift, be jneffe£hial, in render
ing your reiidence in Philadelphia, agreeable
to you, and honorable to ourselves.
Signed by order of the rtteettngi!' r
' "CHAREES- PIDDLE,
Philadelphia, t jth Way, 1793.
Attfft.
ROBERT HENRY DUN KIN, 'Sec'ry.
THE A N S H' £ R.
Citizen Genet IVliniiler Plenipotentiary from
the Republic of France, to the Citizens of
Philadelphia.
CITIZENS,
IF gratitude be not acknowledged a virtue
imong the despots, it is evidently fnch a
inorvg freemen. Of this-truth I have re
ceived abundant proofs on my journey from
Cbarlefton tfl Philadelphia. In every pla(;e
tbe general voire of the people convinced me
in a most sensible manner of their real fenti
pients and sincere and friendly difpofitipns
towards the nation which I have the honor
to represent, and for the advancement of that
common cause which (he alone supports with
lb much courage.
Citizens, your address has completed my
fatisfaftion, and I alfure you that the dayyoitr
Brethren In France stall receive it wtil fee 4'
day of gladness to them. This I anticipate,
that from tbe effe.ft it has had upon rayfelf, it
will have the fame upon then), fgm those
wife and liberal those just and
excellent ideas which chara&erize it.
In my private capacity of a citizen, I am
highly flattered with the favorable opinion
yon have formed of me; and I promise to
make every exertion in my power to render
tnyfclf worthy of thjt good opinion, and to
jnftify the confidence my country has repo r td
in me. My conduit while among you ftiall
he to the heighth of our national political
principles—An unbounded openefs shall be
the constant rule of my intercourse with those
wife and virtuous men into whole hands you
haveentruftcd the management of your pub
lic affairs. I wili expose candidly to them
the great ohjefts on which it will be our bu
linefs to ddiberate ; and the common interest
oif both nations will, I have no doubt be the
cdmpaf's of our direction ; for without such a
gilide, what would become of both nations,
txpofed as we mutually are to there fentment,
the hatred and the treachery of all the ty
fHhts of the earth, who, you may reft assured,
Ate at this moment armed not only against
France, but against liberty itfelf.
' (Signed; GENET.
Foreign Intelligence.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
March 24.
Dutnoyrier on the 12th in ft. -wrote a let'
ter dated Louvain, which it was not
thought prudent at the time to read-
It is as follows :
Citizen President,
THE fafety of the people is the
supreme law ; I havejuft aban
doned conquell almost certain, by
quitting the victorious part of the
army ready to enter into the heart
of Holland, to Apr to the support of
that portion which has experienced
a check, owing to physical and mo
ral causes, that I mean 10 devflope
with that franknefs which is more
than ever neceflary, and which
would always have tended to the
welfare of the Republic, if all her
agents had made use of it in the ac
counts they gave, and if it had been
liltened to with more complacency
than deceitful flattery.
You know,citizen representatives,
in what a dangerous llaie y f difor
" [Whole No. 424.]
ganizatiorr the Belgic army hats
been placed, by a minister and o(li
iers who draggrd France rn the
brink of ruin, i his mjniffer aijd"
those officers have been changed ;
but far from punifliing them, Pache
and HalTenfratz have parted ro the
important station of heads to the
Paris police, and from that nipment
the capita] has seen renewed iri the
(treet Lombard, scenes of blood and
maflacre.
I presented to you, in the month
of December, in four memorials,
the grievances that ought to be re
d relied. 1 informed you of the on
ly mean? which could put a stop to
the evil, and give to our armies
iheir vigor, and to ourcaufe all the
jultice which ought to 'characterize
it. These memorials have been
thrown aside ; you are not acquaint
ed with themorder them to fye
presented to yon, you will there
firtd predicted whal lias lince hap
pened ; you will also in them find
the remedy ro the other dangers
which surround us, and pienace our
infant republic. The armies of
Belgia united in the countries of
Aix la Chapelle and Liege, have
there fuffeted every species of want,,
without murrquiiug, but continual
ly weakened by fitlfiiefs and con
jtant Ikirmifhes with the $nemy,Bt>d
by the desertion of many of the of
ficers and f>!diers to the amount of
half their origins,! llrength.
It is only lince General Buernon
ville is at the head of the miniltrjj,
that the wants of the army and re
cruiting begins to be thought of.
But he has been in lb fiiorc a time,
that we feel that spi
rit qJ which we have been the vic
tims. This was our fituation,when
on the firft of February ypu tho'c
it due to the honor of the nation to
declare war against England and
Holland. From this moment I bu
ried the remembrance o,f all toy
grievances ;—I no longer thought
of resigning, which you will find
mentioned in the memorials abeve
alluded to ; all my thoughts were
given to the fafety of my country.
1 endeavored to be beforehand wli'h
our enemies, and this reduced army
forgot all its fufferings to attack
Holland. While, with new troops,
just from France, I was taking Bre
da, Klundert, Gertruydenberg, and
was preparing to extend my con
quests, the Belgic army, under Ge
nerals remarkable for courage and
civifm, undertook the liege of Ma
eftricht.
Every thing was wanting for this
expedition, the new
was not yet on foot.—The ancient
was bad in every view. Money was
plenty, but the new formseftabli/h
---ed at the national treasury prevent
ed the use of that money. I cap
not yet detail the immediate causes
of the check our armies expp
rienced.as I ain jufl arrived ; not only
they have abandonee! every hopepf
taking Maeltricht, but they have
fallen back in confufion and with
loss. The magazines of every kind
which were begun to be colle<n?d
at Liege, have /'alien into thehandt
of the eneiny, as well as part of the
field artillery and that belonging to
the battalions : Thij retreat jias
drawn on us new euemies, and here
| will develope lite cause of our
misfortunes.
There has e*er exifted,in human
events, a reward for virtue a
punifhtnem for vice. Private indi
viduals may escape the effects of
this providence, which n>ay be cjiij
fd what you pleale, because they
are ioipeiceptible points : but rffd
liiUory, and you will find that a peo
ple never escape it.
As long as our caofe was jh?t ps
juitice we the taemj :from the irome:ti that aiaricc am!
injustice became oar guides, we
worked our own dcftru<stion, and
oar enemies profit by our (aults.
Yon are flattered and deceived, 1
will endeavor to tear the veil si oni
before your eyes. 'be Belgians
have been made to fnfFer vrxanous
of everv kind ; the (acred rights of
liberty "hi<»e Uen violated as they
relate to them ; their religious opi
nions have been mfulted ; the Itir
niture of their churches has been
taken without neeeltity, bai with
indecency. Thc-ir charade; and
intentions have been fflifreprefeut
ed ; rlrr re-union *»l fii'iliault has
beep effect c»l by uiawi violence, by
the sword and lire arms ; that of
fefuflels by a knot of men vvho could
cxiit bur in the tnidft of t*ouble,and ,
by a few blood th tfty individuals
uliembled to intimidate the citizens.
Look over the liiflory of the low
countries, you will find t hat the peo
pie are good, open hearted, coura
geous, and wuithy of treedoiSi.
The Duke of Alva, the moil ci uel
of the satellites of Philip 11. bad
18,000 executed by the band ot the
■hangman. The Belgians took ven
geance by a war of thirty yea_is,and
their attachment to the religion ot
their fathers, only could have bro't
them ag'iin under the Spanish yoke.
Your finances were exhausted
when we entered Belgia ; your coin
had difjppeared. C ambon, who
m&y be an honest citizen, but who
is far beneath the confidence you re
posed in him in financial matteis,
law no remedv but in the pofleliion
of the riches of that fertile country.
—He proposed to you the fatal de
cree of the 15th December ; you
unanimously accepted it, and yet
every one of those among yon, with
whom I have conversed on tiie fub
jetft, told me he did not approve of
it, and that the decree is unjust.
One of my memorials was again ft
that decrree ; ic was not read in the
allembly. The fame Cambon en
deavored to render my remonftran
' ces hateful and criminal, by faying
from the tribune that I was placing
a veto upon the decree of the Aflein
bly : You confirmed this decree by
that of December 30th ; you di
rected your commillioners to fee it
executed ; by your orders the exe
cutive fem at leali 30 commission
ers ; the choice of them was bad,
excepting a very few honest men,
who are perhaps considered as of
doubtful principles, because they
endeavor to mitigate the odium at
tached to their functions. The ma
jOiiiyare madmen or tyrai ts, or
men without reflection,whom a bru
tal zeal always has led beyond their
duty. The agents of tyranny have
been scattered over the whole face
of Btlgia ; the military comman
dants in obedience to the decree,
have been obliged to employ, upon
their requifttion, the forces entrust
ed to them.—These extortioners fi
nally exasperated the spirit of the
Belgians. Thence forward, fear,
perhaps hatred, have replaced that
'Ardial fraternity which accompa
nied our fii'ft fleps in Belgia ; and
at the moment of our change of for
tune our agents exercised their
functions with the jnoft excessive
injustice ami violence.
You have been mi (taken asm the
re-union to France of feyeral porti
ons of Belgia You thought that
union voluntary, becanfe you were
deceived by lies. From that moment
you thought it in your power to
take the fnperfluous plate from the
churches, to defray the exppnee of
the war. You then looked upon
the Belgians as frenchmen : but
even if they had been,you yet Iliould
have waited the voluntary giving
up of this plate ; y'onr taking it by
open violence hecame sacrilegious :
This is exa<Sly what has happened.
The prierts and monks' have taken,
ad vantage of. that imprudent a«ftj
and then pfeached us up as pillag
ers io be avoided, and every whfire
the inhabitants armed agaiaft us.
Our's is not a war of ariftocr»cy,foc
our rev.oluti<)n favors the inhabi
tants of the country, and yet that
description of people arm a
gainst us, and the alarm is founded
in all Quarters. It with them a war
of religion ; and with us a criminal
war. YVe are at this moment fur
rounded by enemies ; you will fee
it by the reports which i lend to
the miniiier of war, you will fee at
the fame time the firlt ineal'ufes 1
have been obliged to take to save
the French army, the national ho
nor, and indeed the republic.
Reprelen.atives of the nation, 1
call on your probity and the recol
lection of the importance of your
duties ; 1 call 011 the sacred princi
ples explained in the declaration of
the rights of man, and I wait with
hu patience your decision. At this
moment you hold in your hands the
faie of the empire, and I am per
fuaded that troth and virtue will
guide your decisions, and that you
will not fuffer your armies to be
flained by crimes and then become
the victims of those crimes."
Oitmoutier, informed that this
letter had been referred to the com
mittee of defence, requests the con
vention to come to no determinati
on upon it, until be has again con
ferred with the coramiiiioners to
Belgia.
[ i he above letter appears in the
Monjteur Uuiiierjeilt, a Paris paper
of the 25th of March, which menti
ons in a note, " That the letter had
not been read before the National
Convention, but printed and pub
lilhed in the Belgic provinces."]
March 23.
Letters were read from the admi
nilVration of the lower Loire. By
these letters of tjie 19th it appeai-s
that the rebels are masters of the
whole country round Nantes, which
city is in a manner besieged ; the
communications are interrupted —
they call for immediate aififtance—
they announce that the chief of the
rebels, the number of whom they
state at about 40,000, is one de la
Perriere, that he has Cent various
propolals to the city of Nantes ; for
he has declared not to acknowledge
the authority of the department
and of the dilhitft : he has much
threatened, if he is not assisted in
supporting a kind cf constitution
which he presented, in which he
calls for the difmilfion of the consti
tutional clergy and a diminution of
ta<es. The administrators promise
and Fwear to remain firm at their
post. They have resolved, as the
only answer to the rebels, that court
martials flvdl attend each body of
troops that should match against
them to judge those taken and im
mediately cause the sentence to be
executed.
March 24.
Tallier informed that the depart
ment of Dordogne had sent 1200
men againit them. Honorable men
tion of the zeal of this department
and the city of Bourdeaux was de
creed.
b'errand dated, that the frontier
of Spain was in a formidable itate
of defence ; but that it was other
wise with ours. The executive
council was directed to give an ac
count ot the situation of that im
portant frontier.
Maltinet communicated a letter
he received from Nantes, by which
it appears, that the communication
between that city and Antwerp is
reffored. The adminiltrative bodies
have disposed of detachments at:
different diltances ; they diretfed
the gullies and ditcher made in the
roads uy the rebels to be filled up.
Upwards of 1200 rebels have alrea
dy fuffered death, about the fame
number are in prison, and will not
delay experiencing the fame fate.
This info rmation gave the greatest
fatisfadiion.
Two letters were received from
the minrller at war. In the firft he
announces, that he is communicat
ing to the committee of general de
fence the dispatches which he re
ceived yelterday and this night from
gen. Dumourier, as well as the plans
concerted between the executive
council and the generals—they can
not be rendered public for the ge
neral good— it will fuffice te fay,
that Dumourier is making a retro
grade movement to get nearer to
the frontiers ; this measure has ap 7
peared to him iieceflary to reorga
nise the army which is in disorder.
By the second letter it appears
that Ciiftine has had a considerable
advantage over the PrufTians. He
beat thein in an attack they made
-406
on one of his posts ; ~1<! Frencl >
troops displayed adonithing intre
pidity every where they took from
ilie enemy forage and provifious.
LONDON, March 24
Medals are now distributing in
Paris, having on one fide the effigy
of Louis XVi. and on tlie other,
the words, 11 eft mort martyr.
The effects of 1 lie rMy declaration
publiflied by Louis Stanislaus Xa
vier, have begun to inanifeft them
selves in France precisely in the
manner that might have been ex
pected. No sooner was the absurd
inltrument made public, but ad
drefles were presented from various
quarters, demanding the trial and
punifhmeui of the unfortunate An
toinette. These miserable deluded
refugees fall into the purposes of
igalite, as fully as if they were his
pro felled and hired instruments.
April 3! The communication with
Ollend being once more open, in
telligence will be more frequently
received from the immediate feac
of war
The mails from Holland and Flan
ders arrived yellerday. The Ley
den Gazette mentions, that the in
tercourse being re-opened, they
have obtained French papers to the
18th, the day on which they ceased
to be forwarded to London. The
Bruflels Gazette is totally barren of
intelligence.
The late failures in the city which
by some persons have been attribut
ed, very falfely, to be the effects of
the war, are found to arise, on close
infpetftion, from connections with
the country banks—a growing mif
chief, which has long called for the
interference of the legislature to
check its progress.
Friday evening intelligence came
to Lloyd's, of eight Englifli mer
chantmen trading to the Levant
having been taken by French pri
vateers, in the Mediterranean, and
fix of them carried into Marseilles.
They are insured at 80, cool.
La Halle, where Dumourier was
encamped, according to the last ac
count, is a strong post a few miles
to the south of Brullels. It was the
fame place that Duke Albert made
a stand in the last campaign, to co
ver the retreat of the Court of Brul-
i'els.
Apa.ll. 6.
Yesterday afternoon capt. Hawes,
of the fecund Nancy cutter, belong
ing to Deal, arrived in St. Marga
ret's bay, with dispatches from O
itend for admiral M'Bride. The
cutter left Oftend at 11 o'clock on
Thursday night, and brings niofb
important intelligence. We under
lain! that Dumourier is arrived at
Lille with his forces, and that he
had scarce made his appearance,
before M. Bournonville and five
commissioners from the convention,
had come down with orders to bring
him up a prisoner to Paris. Dumcti
jier did not follow the example of
la Fayette ; he refilled the order of
the convention, and having felt the
pulse of his army, arretted the com
iniliioners, and sent them to the
prince of Cobourg, as liortages for
the fafety of the Queen and royal
family. He then proclaimed the
young Louis king, at the head of
the army, and sent a dispatch to
Paris, intimating his determination
to proceed immediately thither, &
support the claim of the Dauphin
to the throne of his ancestors, as
from the conduct of the convention,
he saw that France could only be
saved by a general refinance to their
horrid tyranny. Such is the report
that has come to our ears of this
important dispatch ; and which we
give literally as we have reteived
it. It is added, that in consequence
of the news of Dumoui ier's defeat,
and of the violent measures taken
by the convention, the tumult 111
Paris has risen to the molt extrava
gant heighth. Theparcies had atftu
afly come to blows, the barriers
were (hut, the white flag, with a
mourning crape over it, was flying
in the llreets, and numbers of peo
ple had mounted the white cockade.
Besides the above particulars, in
telligence has been received, that
the merchants and principal inha
bitants of Dunkirk, are ready to
deliver up that place to the royal
party, and |, av( . f .
H"ral M'Bride, |° *'
fend over two sri- ap< , :i h
I'cffion of the tow,, °' ake p^
an L-xprels whicb
this morning f r „„, , be „
are enabled ro e i VE ,h e
counts of a *
ing on il,e ev e „f , a ki, " J '
Pans. at
The ctrcwinftance* that h,„ i
to this are of a m,,lt extra,,a
nature. The Moppage „(
nttinicatmn with France h a ,t
in the dark campletclv wi.i,
to the proceedings of the
on. It now appear] that ,fc. n!|
important traufadienj j lMf . '
piace. Ui ®i
After Dumourier had been r ortfl |
to retreat within the Frr„. 1.7
•fcr,
vention, ftatiug, " That ii
it imjinSible to make head ,£
the Allied Powers.andthat I,
the only means of f av i„ g ¥t J
from being over-run by those
ers, would be to have a King" "
In conference of this ]« etr ,
Decree■ of Accusation was paH ,.J a
gainst Dumourier, in the fitting
the 50th of March, who had been
denounced in the Municipality 0 f
■n" 5 1 \I-*T : a " d Buur "on
v.lle the Minister at War,
and five others were deputed to the
army, to put the Decree into execu
tion, by arresting Dumourier and
fending him a prisoner to Pj r;s
Dutnourier himfelf fays, he finnlv
believes ir was their intention to
have had him maflacred on the road.
They reached the army, and m '
formed the General of their mil.
on. He saw the time was tome id
llrike a decisive blow. He aflem
bled his troops ; informed tiem of
the Decree of the Convention, ami
hinted his own wiftesand deligtis.
They exclaimed, that they would
ft and by him. He immediately be
gan to ad. He arretted Beornoti
ville and the other Coiinrtilßoneri,
and sent them with a letter to Ge
neral Clairfayt, Hating that hew
about to march to Paris next morn
ing, the 2d inft. at the head of hit
army, for the purpose of feltorinj
the French Monarchy.- —
General Clairfayt forwarded (lit
prifooers committed to his chirp
by Dumourier,to the Prince of ban
Cobourg, and immediately wroti
with his own hand, an account ol
these extraordinary tranlaiSions tt
Count Metternich, the Imperial Mi
nilter at Bruflels, who forwards
this account to the Hague. Tit
express that brought this news left
the Hague on the 4th, a few hotr
after General Clairfayt's account
arrived there, and reached Londo!
this morning at seven o'clock.
The fame accounts have been re
ceived from Broflels and Oftend,
Extract of a letter from Mechlin,
March 24.
" This day the French retired in
good order about eJeveu o'clock if
the morning, after havingdeftrny
ed or blown up the bridges in trc
neighbourhood of the city. Ttt
people immediately proceeded t<
the square, where they deftroyt
the monument erected by the] ic:r
bin club to the memory of ! ' t i '
tier,and tranfportingthe fraspit™
of it to the foot of the treeolli'J"
ty„ set the whole ort fire.
" The people then repaired ><
the club-room, from which tw)
carried away the tribune and t»
ches, to add them to the tiff
whole was conduced wiiheotMJ
tumult. ..
" At two o'clock the .mag l '
and the grand council, P' ocef '
to the town-house, on >»«>'"»<
presented to them by the p»o»
a | representatives of < J.
who had managed att.nrs
the residence of the rrenc •
representatives then refig"
functions in the P r .® j r , r i
magistrates, who
titude and fatisfaction a<Jm j
they had fliown during , ra „
11 ill rat ion, in P r ' ,b
tranquillity, and P™. jf; Jt ns
rights and proOT°f' he £U
'• At five o'clock the m
troops took pofie. ion c
amid the ringing f
the acclamations of the pe ■St. JOHN'*, (Antigua) Maya.
The fleet from England, under
Admir?t Gardner, arrived at Barba
dos on Friday ; the merchantmen
and transports did not accopipany
them.
Thefollowing are the ships that
cpm'poie Admiral Gardner's fqua-
droit :
Commanders.
C Adm.Gardner,
£ Capt. Huct.
<. Com. Murray,
£Capt. DofF.
Cape. Sir J.Wallace
J. T. Duckworth
G. Montague
Guns
Ships.
VI u
98
98
74
74
74
Queen
Duke
Monarch
Orion
HetSor
Hannibal 74 Colpoys
Culloden 74 SirThos. Rich
Iphigenia 32 Sinclair
Heroine 32 Allan H. Gardner
Rattlesnake 16 Alexander Mouat.
It is generally believed at Domi
nica, that the French fleet is arrived
at Martinique,
GRENADA, April 19.
This morning the Ichoouer Swift,
Capt. Ryal arrived here froin lo
bago, with the agreeable news of
the capture ot that island. Weharve
been favored with the following
particulars by Col. Bailiie.
On Sunday the 14th, at 2 o'clock,
a signal was made that an enemy s
fleet was off Courland, and in about
an hour afterwards the Trulty, and
the other veflcls in the squadron
came to anchor in the bay. Gen.
Cuyler immediately landed with
the troops consisting of 35® men i
and marched direcftly to Cinnamon
hill, where he halted,and dispatched
a flag of truce to the fort, to demand
the surrender of the island. The
governor returned for answer, that
they would hold out to the last ex
tremity. It was then determined
to carry the hill by storm, and the
recefl'ary preparation being made,
the troops marched at one o'clock
on Monday morning, taking the
road through the town of Port-Louis.
They were formed in two columns,
the one under the immediate com
mand of the General, the other led
by Major Gordon of the 60th.
The (iring began about 2 o'clock,
and continued obstinate lor about
three quarters ot an hour, when Ma
jor Gordon with the light infantry
entered the fort and made hinifelf
completely master of the hill.
At day-light the capture was an
nounced by holding the Union flag,
and firing the morning gun.
All accounts agree in bellowing
the highest encomiums on the cool
and determined courage manifefted
by the British troops on the orcafion ;
and the conduct of Major Gordon
in preventing the (laughter that al
most unavoidably follows a (lorm,
refletfts equal honor on his own hu
manity and the difciplir.e of the
troops he commanded.
In addition to the above account,
we are informed that there were
near 300 men in the Fort at the time
of the aflault ; that seven of the as
sailants were killed ; and a few
wonnded ; among the latter are
Gen. Cuyler ( flightly) and Lieute
nant Geyer of the 67th, who joined
the expedition at Barbadoes as a vo
lunteer.
Philadelphia, May 22.
Saturday afternoon, at 2 o'clock, Mr. Ge
net, being introduced by Mr. Jeffetion, Secre
tary of State, produced his credentials to the
President of the United States ; he was re
ceived ami acknowledged as Minister Pleni
potentiary from the Republic of France to
the United States of America.
B) an arrival at this port yesterday in twelve
d?vs from Cape-Franeois we learn (hat a frigate
had arrived There in 28 days from Brest ; which
brought intelligenee that Gen, Dumaurier had
gone over to the Auftrians—<hat a fleet of twen
cvfaiVof Frenchlmeot battle ships had tailed
for the Mediteriaiiean, and that another French
fleet was cruifwj/ in the liritiih channel j a new
Governor for Hifpaniol?, a very popular cha
racter, came in the hi gate.
The Southern papers continue to detail very
«iftrt{ling accounts of Indiau murders and de
p»edaiionson the Western an 1 South Western
Frontiers; numbers of -nen women and chil
drco, have fallen facrifkes, since the firft of
April.
On Satnrdav last a rebub'tcan dinner was given
at Oericrs' to Cit'zen Genet, by a refpe&able
number of French, and French-American citi-
zens.
Samuel Huntington. Esq. is re-eletted Go
vernor and Oliver Wolcoti, Esq. Lieuteoaut
Governor of the State ot Cooneflicut.
By the fliip Peggy* Cfiftt. Elliot, /r<m Amfierdamt
we hfcpe Leyden Papers to the sth. April, jrom
which the following articles are tranjlated.
EXTRACTS from the' Leyden Gazette, of
the sth April, 1793*
Extratf of a Ultfr jrom BtuJJels, March 28.
" On the 25th initant between 12 audi
o'clock, his royal highness the Archduke
Charles made his entry into this city, ac
companied by the fie Id marshal Prince o•.
Saxe Cobourg, and a numerous retinue ot ge
neral officers. It is difficult to express thi? fa- .
tisfaftion the people have (hewn at this
change of* things ; almolt all the inhabitants
were on his paifuge, and the air echoed with
redoubled (hours. The Archduke repaired to
the church of St. Gudule, where I e Deum
was sung by way of thanksgiving- From
thence the Prince patTed through the princi
pal quarters of the city, and every where re
ceived unequivocal marks of the joy of the
Brabanters. At last having repaired to the
Hotel of the Duke D'Ahrearby, the wine ot
honor was presented to his Royal Highness,
and at night there wai a grand illumination.
Yesterday a courier arrived here from Vien
na, who brought to the Archduke the pa
tent of Governor and Captain General ot the
Netherlands. The fame day, this voung
prince set out to take the commai.d oi the
advanced posts of the army. The Count de
Mettemick, who before the French in van on
was inverted with the poll of mimfter pleni
potentiary, is expe&ed in a few days at
1 Brullels. ' Yesterday the people of the city
brought the statue of Prince Charles of Lor
raine, which had been thrown down by t.ie
Sans Culottes; and drew it themfefves to the
Place Ro\ale with a numerous band of music,
while all the bells in the city were ru&g. A
new pedestal is now making lor it with the
greareft activity.
A numerous column of the Auflrian army
palled through this city on the 25th inftaut,
fallowed by a large train *>f artillery and
camp equipage. The French army continues
to retreat with celerity, though in good or
der. The column headed by Dumourier him
{e<f is already on the heights of Framcrie(, on
the other fide of Mons. A large body ot Au-
Urian cavalry follow close at their heels.
The town and citadel of Namur are evacu
ated.
Extral7 of a letter Jrom Brujfrls., (fated April 1.
" The French continue to retreat, ftiU
prefled by the numerous body of Austrian
horse, which follow them. The Archduke
Charles is at Mons, his vanguard at Frame
ries. On the 29th, the Imperial troops en
tered Ghent, which the French have en
tirely evacuated, leaving there some pretty
considerable stores. On the 26th of March
there was engagement nedr Antwerp, be
tween a body of French troops ard an Au-
Itrian division. The battle was long and
bloody, and was maintained on both /ides
with the greatest intrepidity ; but t ">e French
bsing superior in number, forced the Auftri
aus to retire, and took several prisoners."
L E Y r> E N, April Z
We have at last received certain intelli
gence that the French garri(on of Breda,
which is said to have been commanded by
Gen. de Flers, delivered up the place by ca
pitulation to the troops of the united provin
ces, on the 2d infh It is thought that that
of Gertruydenberg will soon do the fame.—
Gen. Dumourier having given orders to the
remainder of his troops, to evacuate the ter
ritories of the republic. They will have free
liberty to return to France, because, in order
to prevent the ruin and pillaging of the.
towns and country, it has been agreed, that
all the French fVoops in Belgla and the Dutdi
territory, (hould return home by way of
Mechlin, Dendermond, Ghent, and Tonrnay,
under an escort of an Austrian fafeguard, to
the French frontier.
Saturday evening last an express arrived
at the Post* Office in this city, with the letters
and papers brought by'the April Packet, ar
rived at New-York, in 37 days from Fal
mouth.
The following articles are from London Papers to
. the 6th of April, brought bv the Puckct.
STATE PAPER;
Declaration of the King of Prutlia, refpefting
his taking poflcflion of the city of Dantzig,
and the territory belonging to it.
THE fame reatons which induced his raa
jefty, the King of Prullia, to order part of -his
troops to march into some of the diftri&s of
Great Poland, lay him under the neccflity to
secure the city of Dantzig and the territory be
longing thereto. For besides that this city ne
ver has a£ted for a number of years past, like
a good neighbor towards the kingdom of Pruf
fis, it is now become the rendezvous of a wick
ed and cruel band, who heap tranfgreflion up
on tranfgreflion, and who try by the afliftance
of their deff*icable abettors to spread themfeives
on al! fides. One of these villains, after having
attempted in vain to Ipread his poisonous prin
ciples, among a happ\ and faithful nation, has
found nevertheless a free and public asylum in
the city ot Dantzig ; and it was only by the
mod urgent reprefenta; ions that hecould be ob
tained from his prote&ors. Thi.« last instance,
together with the numerous abuses ot a ifiiU
construed liberty, and the great connexion
which fubfi(l> between the faction in France and
Poland, and a certain party, which by itibans
of the impudcnce ot their principle*, have gain
ed a certain fupeiiority above the moO ot the
well-meaning part ot the citizens, and finally
the great ease wherewith these conspirators pro
cure all kinds of neccflanes, but efpeoally
grains at Dantzig, by the help of their abettors
are taken colli 6lively, as objects which have
drawn the attention ot the King towards this
city, and have obliged him to keep them with
in the bounds of jutiice, and provide thereby
for the fafeiy and peace of the adjoining Pruf
f*m provinces. For which purpole his Majrf
tv, after a previous agreement with the other
power* ctotftotd 1 herein, ha* diredted hit
Gcn. Advertijir.
407
Lieutenant Genera! £e Raumer io occupy the
city and territory of Danizig wiih a fufficiettt
number of troops, to m_a inuia good order and
public fecUrity.
It will now depend on -the inhabitants, bv
their prudent conduct, to merit the good wtll ot
the King, by using his troops in a triendly man
ner, aud giving them all the help and afliftance
they may be in want of-;' the commanding of
ficer, on his pa-rt, will not fail to cause the flt ifct
eft discipline to be observed, and .{<» grant, his
prote&jon to all such as may find iheiTifi*i , ?es un
der tbenectlTity to request the faoje. These are
the sentiments of his PrufTun Mujelly, and he
therefore trulls, that the magistracy ot
will make no diHicuUv in conforming to the
fame, in order to promote in this manner their
salutary views—the good efie&s whereof will
tend molt of all to their advantage.
R E N N £ S, (France) March i 5.
-. The royalists, and friends to the laws and
order, at length triumph in this department aod
the neighboring one?. They only wait lor the
English at Jcrfry to make a descent on our
coails to appear openly. A considerable body
of armed men have, however, alTembled at No
ray, about fix leagues ftpm hence, who threa
ten to reduce our city to ashes.
LONDON, April 16.
The merchant corps of volunteers of Dublin
have had their cannon rcftojed to them, upon a
temperate and loyal application to the lord
lieutenant.
It is said that Dumourier has fcized the three
Commiflioners sent by the. National Conven
tion to arrest him, whtom he sent prisoners to
the Auftrians; and that he afterwards marched
with hisarmy to Paris. On this news Stocks
rose two per cent, to day.
A teller js said to have been received by a
merchant in this ci»y, from a refp -ftaMe House
in Amlterdam, dated the 2d of April, stating,
that intelligence had been jeceived th> re of an
mfurreftion at Paris that the mob had at
tacked the Convention, and murdered 80 of the
members.
Extract oj a Utter fiom HdvoctjluyApril 3. —
_ 1.. t. #> a.T - ' -
3 o'clock, t\ M.
" Thr 37th regiment commanded by lieut.
col. fir Charles Rofs, Bart; ami 531 by lieut.
col. Symes, which arrived here from Leith on
Sunday evening lalt, under convoy of the Mar
tin Hoop, captain Lane, still remain on board
their transports, having received counter-orders
to proceed after the brigade of gua'tU to B r
gen-op-Zoom, by the way of Fiuihing.—The
detachment of artillery are likewise re-emb4rk
ed to attend theij) : —Major general R. Aber
crombic goes wuh them to command the i:d
Britiftv brigade. The contrary winds preveni
ed their failing for 2 days part.
"The British fhipsof war, remaining here,
arc the Syren frigate, capt. Manlcy ; the Chil
ders sloop, capt. Bailowe ; the Echo, hon.
capt. Jones ; and the Martin, capt. Lane. The
sloops have orders to proceed as convoy tojhe
troops thro' the Scheldt. The Syren and Expe
dition fail for England to-morrow. '*
Friday last a deputation from the French
Benevolent Society eftablillied in this city
waited upon cirizen Genet with an add reft,
of which the following is a tranilation :
Citizen Minijler of the French Republic.
The French citizens and citizens of the
United States defceudants of French, refilling
in Philadelphia, hasten to prelent this mark of
their attachment to the nation you
of their zeal for the cause of liberty and equa
lity, and of their personal regard.
Many of us attracted by tbe innate love of
liberty, when France still smarted under the
rod ofdefpotifm, fought and found an asylum
in this happy country, then the cradle of in
fant equality. The cordial reception from
our new fellow-citizens, the close connec
tions and pleasing habits contracted among
them, have rendered America a native home.
But in becoming Americans, they have not
ceased to be Frenchmen ; for no individual
can be more intimately conne&ed with either,
than the two, nations are with each other.
The French citizen who has become affiliated
to the American nation, and the citizen of the
United States whom France has adopted have
thereby only strengthened the ties of connex
ion.
An union cemented by the blood of the ci
tizens of both nations, and founded on so so
lid a basis as similarity of sentiment and prin
ciple, is formed to resist the most violent ef
forts of those whose interest it might be to
difhirt) it : for liberty tends to unite men, as
does despotism to divide and destroy them.
The million with tohich you are charged,
imposes on you the most agreeable duties,
since it is committed to you to give and re
ceive the afTurance and testimony of so sincere
a f-iendlhip and so fraternal a union.
will co-operate a 1; far as in our power 10
maintain so precious a fraternity and pre
vent the enemies of liberty from giving it
disturbance.
Permit us on this occasion, as individuals
and Frenchmen, to pay to our brethren of
the United States the tribute of gratitude
which their conduct towards us so jiiftly
claims. We were strangers among them and
they treated us as brothers ; they have been
prodigal of the attentions and afliftance, which
our situation required, and endeavored to
make us forget, that we d d not owe our
birth to a common country.—Throughout
the whole extent of the American empiie our
countrymen have experienced the effects of
the f.tine benevolent spirit. Every where
the citizens have been anxious to cfcetilh and
the governments to protest tliem. It would
be the heighth of ingratitude in us not to avail
ourfelvesof fo'favorable ait opportunity of
publicly exptelEng the extent of t>ur grati
tude.
Accept, citizen, our ardent wiflics for the
Cuccefi of the glßr'tou? caule of which FraJiqp
hat declared berfelf the support. We hope,
that bv her generous efforts 1 berty Will soon
be trindijj'iaiit tbrougijout ihe in spite
of the enormous combination of despots and
flaveswho wish to annihilate it.
We felicitate ourselves in finding in you a
citizen who has deserved well of his country,
and who teaches Us to hope that he will ac
quire a new claim to her gratitude.
(Signed) By order,
P. 3. DUPONCEAU.
To this he made an answer t of which the
'following Is a trjnflatioii :
"Cit'zen 'ninUt'er plenipotentiary f op.
the fiench Republic, to tha French citi
zens and descendants of Fienchiiien, re-
frdent in Philadelphia.
THE p>'ji)<;iple* and sentiments which have
animated yon', citizens, do equal honor to
your heads and hearts, and leave no doubt of"
your patribtifm- You have anticipated the
intetoti'ons'of" the French republic; her wifli
is to (trengt.'ieii more and more the ties which
witji.the virtuous iiation thsit has
fi> julßy'ikfi.rvtd, by.her generous conduct
towards you, your attachment.and gratitude.
I will use my best endeavors to l.uli\l the in
tentions of the republic, and am peifuaded,
that you will itegleift nothing to ,ptove so the
citizens of the United States, that French
men now ctnificier them as brethren.
I (hall take care, citizens, to communicate
to our fellow-citizens in France, the address
which yon have just presented, and I beg you
to accept my thanks for tfie opinion which
you have been pleased toentercain of my zeal
and entire devotion to t?tf?-caufe ofliberty and
equality. (Signed) GENET.
COMMEMCEMEVr.
On the 15th instant was heid at the Me
thodist Church, in fourth-ftreet, a Commence- >
merit of the Pupils of the Young Ladies' Aca
demy of Philadelphia. The exercises com
menced bv a well adapted prayor by the Rev.
Dr. Sproat, the President of the Trustees ;
after which a number of fele&ed pieces, suit
able to the female character, were pronoun
ced with judgment and p opriety. The sa
lutatory oration was delivered by Miss Prif
cilla Mason, and the valedictory by Miss Eli
za Lafkey, each of whom, together with Miss
Ann Bartow and Miss Eleanor Britton, were
honored with a diploma.
Extract of a letter from St. John's (Antigua J dated
May 2.
" A few days ago several rich and refpeft
able inhabitants were butchered at Guade
loupe in a manner too horrible to mention,
which even the most crpel savages would have
been ashamed of. The following are t'e
names of the unfortunate viftiins—Madame
Vermont the elder ; Madame Vermont t £
younger, and two children; Madame Meyen
co.ult ; Madasne Roupelle the elder; Madame
Roupelle the younger, and an intact child;
the two MelTrs. Roupelle; Monf. Gondieaurt,
three daughters just arrived from France,
from i I to iS years of ape; Brinde u ;
Madaftje Brindcau ; MefTrs. "Vaudrecourt
and Buelle."
Extrafl of aUftfl'frM a tfdt bfomri Ctnref
... j-_- j.i.Jr j._ a±~:i „
pendent M dated London, April 5, 17Q3.
" P. S. I have not been able to procure co
pies of the bill mentioned in this letter but it
declares in fobftancc 1 hat any pcrfon being or
residing wi'hin any of ihe dominions of his
Riitaniuc Majdfty who shall dirrfctly or indi
reftiy supply, or canse > dire&, authorise or pro
cure anv pcrfon or performs whomsoever or
wheresoever residing lo fupoly or t<* fend for
the putpofe of feeing fold or supplied to any of
the dominions of France or place in rhcir pof
feflfion tlr to the armies fleets or.veflVls cmplo'. -
ed by the French government, any naval or mi
litary ftorcs, or lilver in bullion or coir?,
forage or provisions of anv kind and vatious
other articles shall be deemed gu'l f y of Treason,
AW insurance made on any goods and vefTels
bound to or from the ports under French do
minion made null and void and parties guilty
of misdemeanor."
The declaration nf independence by the im
mortal Congrcfs 01*76 —contains this sentiment.
That in future the United Stales would conftder
Great-Bit tain is they do the w-ft of the world—
v " enemies in tear ; iti piece hitaik"
Married, Monday evening by the Right
Reverend Dcxftor White, George Hammonc,
Esquire, his Britannic Majesty's Minister
Plenipotentiary to the United Stares, to Mtft
Pbggv Allen, eldest daughter of Andrew-
Allen, Esquire, of this city.
By the Rev. Dr. Magaw, Mr. Gsorgb
Washington to Mif> Ldc» Payne, of ihi»
city. .
Died the 18th inft. in the 85th year nf her
age, Mrs. Jane Hoimi, relist of Mr. Johw
Holme,-of Pennipack, Philadelphia County •
a woman in whose charaQer were united tbe
Christian, social and doinelkie virtues in an emi
nent degree. Her funeral wat attended on Sun
day lalt- and a sermon adapted to the occasion
delivered by the Rev. Dr. Roger* in the flap
tift Church, l ower Dublin, from these wofd«—
•' Gather my faints togethtr unto me ; those
that have made a covenant with mt by fdctifice."
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED 4/ (Ae PORT */ PHILADELPHIA.
Brie Ami and Mary, M'Cain, v Dublin
Sally,' Allen, St. Marc
Jemiroa & Fanny,ConUm, Capr-Francoi»
Schr. Bel fey, Willia, Hifpauioia
- folly, M'Cormick, Charleston
Belfry, Miller, St. Mark*
Friend (hip, M'Lcan*. Virgini»
Delight, <•«*«■. do.
Sloop Panny, H'atchard, Bermuda
Lively, Moore, Guadeloupe
PRICE OF STOCKS
6 per Ccr.ts, >6/8
3 per Cents, 8/11 913
Deferred. 979
101 l fti.res Bank U. S. i per ccot. adv.LEGHORN, (Italy) March 8.
The Capt. of a Ragufan vefiel ar
rived here from Bonne, in Barbary,
with a cargo of wheat, relates, that
the Algeritie cruisers having taken
8 Dutch flu'ps, carried them on the
Jth of Feb. into Algiers, but that
the Dey immediately ordered them
to be released, that they might pi o
ceed to their refpeftive places of
dellination, because the term of 30
days, fixed by his Excellency for the
commencement of hostilities, were
not then expired ; and that the Vi
kil Hadgi, of the Marine, a sworn
enemy to the Chriltians, had open
ly disapproved of this generous ac
tion, and had incited theTurksand
Moors to condemn it so much, that
the Reys Selemi, a renegado Jew,
said publickly that to release tliefe
prizes was very unjust—that they
exposed their lives by going out to
cruise—and that now, when they
had the good fortune to take some
prizes, his Excellency had set (hem
at liberty. The Dey, being inform
ed of thi9 behavionr, fell into a vi
olent paflion, and ordered the Vikil
Hadgi to cause the mutinous Reys
Selemi to be immediately beheaded.
The Vikil Hadgi instead of execut
ing the order, concealed the crimi
nal on board a corlair ; but his Ex
cellency was so much irritated that
he wilhed to fend the Vikil Hadgi
to the prison of D.afarcagi, to be
there strangled. The Dey, howe
ver, on the prefling intreaties of his
wife, and the wife of the Vikil Had
gi, filler to the former, gave hiin
his life, but condemned him to ex
ile ;—and the sentence was imme
diately executed, the criminal be
ing put on board a Spanish Ihip,
which was instantly obliged to set
fail. This disgrace of the declared
enemy of the Christians, has greatly
rejoiced the ConfuJs of commercial
nations at Algiers ; and what adds
to their pleasure is, that the vacant
post of the Vikil Hadgi. has been
given by the Dey to his nephew, a
young Turk, formerly from the Le
vant, and who is of a very amiable
character. The Port Captain has
also been disgraced, and his place
supplied by another.
BOSTON, April 8.
A correspondent, who is a native
of the United Netherlands, wishes
to remind the Americans, that his
country is the friend and ally of
the United States ; that (he ailifted
them in the war, with money, &c.
and that (he now wilhes to live in
perfect amity and good fellowfhip
with them ; and to inquire, with
what propriety they can wi(h that
her territory may be overrun, her
towns burnt, and her property de
li royed ?
In a Liverpool paper of March
25th, are accounts of four privateers
and lixteen merchantmen, taken by
the British and Spanish (hips of war,
and carried into various ports. The
fame paper contains accounts of
eighteen Engli(h merchantmen be
ing taken and carried into France.
These are all in one paper.
We have seen a letter just receiv
ed from Paris, which mentions that
the lady of that unfortunate friend
to America, the Marquis de la Fay
ette, may be soon expected to fail
for the United States—where (he
will receive a cordial welcome.
Capt. Davis, when he failed from
England, had fafe paflports from
the AmbalTador of the United States,
countersigned by the American Con
sul there, both in the English and
French languages.
Post-Road
TO THE GENESEE COUNTRY.
THE. public are hereby informed, that the
Port-Road from Philadelphia to Reading,
is continued to Sunbuiy and Northumberland J
thence up the Wett Branch of the Sufquehannah
as far as Licoming; thence in the Painted Post
(in New-York Hate, near the forks of the Tioga)
thence to Bath (a town laid out on the Coho&on
Branch of the Tioga) thence to Williamfburg,
at the forks of Gtnefee River.
Letters for this new route will be sent from
the Philadelphia Poft-Office everv Wednerdiy
morning, at eight o'clock, With the mail ior
Reading.
A weekly n>»il will alio be carried from
Bethlehem to Willkefbarre, in the county of
Luzerne.
General Pgjl-tijjicci April ft, 1793.
By THOMAS JOfi'NMN, DAVID
STUART,&DANIEL CARROLL,
Esquires,
Commissi o hi us appointed by Government to
prepare the Public Building*, See. within the
City of Wajhinglony for the reception of Con
gress, and for their permanent rtluience after
the yeor 1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz.
1 Superb Hotel, with bath*, /
oat hou£r», &c.icc. to colt J
1 C»(V» Prize
1 ditto
1 ditto
1 ditto
2 ditto
10 ditto
20 ditto
jOO ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
t,ooo ditto
15,000 ditto
5,000 are
1,000
500
100
5°
*5
eo
14
16,737 PritM
33,a6S Blaitfej
50,000
By thU scheme at leafi the amount of the tick
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City will gain its object thereby,
in a magnificent building defig'ned both for'pub
lic and private convenience.
Although some eXpence mull neceflarily at
tend the conducing of the lottery, (which tx
pence will be taken from the principal prize) the
ComcTiiflioucrs having agteed to present in re
turn a fuflicient quantity of excellent free-ftone,
tog' ther with the best adapted lots for the hotel
and for the out-houfes, the value of the lottery
entire may be fairly rated at fomethin * more than
par: In this important instance it will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other country. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate pofleifor of the ticket drawn aagaiaft
its number. — All the other prizes will be paid,
without deduflion y in one month after the drawing, by
the City Treasurer at Wafhingtort, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for the convcuicncy or the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
9t"h of September next, at the City of Washing
ton.
Ticket* may be had of Col. Wm. Dichcns, City
Treasurer of Washington ; Thayer £3 Bartle!> of
Charleston, South-Carolina ; Gideon Dcnifon, Sa
vannah ; Messrs. James tVe/I & Co. Baltimore;
Mr. Peter Gi/man, Boston ; and at such other
places as will be hereafter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the best Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if presented
oner before the 10 th of April next; and a pre
ference will be given to the Artist for a Con.
trass, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be crcftcd, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the stables, &e. Sections and
eftimatcs of the expense will be expected
with the elevation*, &e. compleat ; and 50,000
dollar's .must be regarded by the Architcit as the
utmost limit in the exprnfe intended for this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
March 6, 1793.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, N e w-Vok k.
THE Sub fori bcr intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS 0.1 COMMlSSlON,begsleave to of
fer his services tohisfriendsand others, in the
lineofa Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
upon having ittranfafted with theutnroft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Bofion, or any
Other part of the United States, will be ftri&ly
attended to.
C.f.)
LEONARD BLEECKER
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
Tie Pioprictors of the Giafs-Manufaaory, under
the Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BEG leave to inform the public, that they have
now brought their WINDOW-GLASS to
such perfeftimi, as will be found, on comparison,
to be equal, in quality, to the belt London
Crown Glafc.
Having fixed their prices at a lower rate thaft
imported Glass, they are induccd to believe, that
importations of this ariiclc will be di {continued,
in proportion as their woiks arc extended. -
They piopofe to enlarge the scale of this bufi.
qtfs, and as the success of it will depend on the
patriotic support of the public, they beg leave to
solicit their friendly patronage in the pursuit of
a branch which will interest every lover of
AmDiicaN Manufactures.
All orders for Window-Glass, of any size
will be received at the Store of Redoes and'
MacGrjgor, No. 234, Queen-llreet, New.
York, and at the GUIs Vt'a r choufe, No. 48
Market-ftrect, Albany, wjiith Will be punfluailv
attended to. '
&S* WAirfED, fix smart active LADS, not
exceeding if> v.ears of age, to be indented at
Apprentice!,' and regii!arlv inll/ufted in the
vjrtous branch™ of GtaTs-lijaking.
Also, three Windpw-GMs Makers, to whom
great encouragement will be given,
M "y '• '793'"
(f3* The price eftJiis Gazette ii Thr ( i Dollars
%ibh™ m ~° ne " be **'*'' tic
408
THE Second Edition of this work* with im.
provements, will speedily be put to pref».
The rapid sale of the firft edition*, greatly be
yond the author's mofl (anguine expectations,
encourages him to print a second edition. He
intends to have it printed upon much better pa
per than the former, and with a new type.
Those Booksellers who wish to take a num
ber of copies in sheets, are requested to apply to
the author for particulars.
* i 000 Copies
it a meeting of the School Committee,
February s rh, 1793.
The Committee, appointed to examine 44 The
Preceptor's Afliftant, or Student's Guide," being
1 systematical treaufe of Arithmetic, by John
Vinall, teacher of the Mathematics Sc Writ
ing, in Bolton, reported, that they have attended
that service, and are of opinion, that the work
is executed with judgment, and is as well calcu
lated for the use of schools, counting houses, arid
private families, as any of the fame compass
that has hitherto been offered to the public.
Voted, That the above report be accepted,
and that Mr. Vi n a l l be furnifhed with a copy
of it, whenever he fHal 1 desire it.
Copy of the Records. Attest,
CHARLES BULFINCH, Sec'ry.
The following chara&er of the above work,
is given in the Review of the MaJJackvfetts Ma
gazine, for Jan. 1793 :
u This is a very ufeful work, and is no ill
proof of the judgment and industry of the author.
The rules are laid down with propriety, and
the examples annexed are fufßcient for their il
lustration. One part of the work deftrves par
ticular commendation. We mean that which
the author stiles ** Mercantile Arithmeticlt
occupies a considerable portion of his book, but
not more than its importance will juftify. We
would recommend to the young Arithmetician
to pay a particular attention to this branch.
He will find its principles well explained And
Qiould he make himfelf master of them, he will
always have reason to acknowledge his obliga
tion to the judicious and laborious author. We
cannot but congratulate the rising generation on
account of the many ufeful productions which
have lately appeared ; and in which their im
provement has been principally confuked.—
Among those produ£l*ons we mud place this
treatise of Arithmetic. We should be wanting
in justice to the author, should we not acknow
ledge that his work is in reality that which its
title imports—The Preceptor's Assistant,
or Student's Guide."
5*,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10, coo
1 o,oco
IOiOOO
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
20,090
150,000
Dollars 350,000
By Thomas Dobfon,
»ookJelUr y at the Stone- Hou ft, in Second Jlrtet %
Phi LADE L PHI A,
VOLUME VIII, OP
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
or, a DICTIONARY or ARTS, SCIENCES,
and MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new :
RT "WHICH
TH* DlFFF.kknt SCIENCES AND ARTS
arc digested into the Form of Diftinft,
TREATISES or SYSTEMS :
THIS VOLUME CONTAINS
AN Account of the Cape of Good Hope,
Grafting, Universal Grammar, Grafles,
Greece, Greenland, Guam, Guinea, Gunnery,
Happiness, Harmony, Heat, Hepatic-Air, He
Holland, Horse, Horfcmanfhip, Hottentots,
Hunting, Husbandry, Hydrometer, with a great
variety of Biographical and Miscellaneous Arti
cles. Embellished with sixteen Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the purpose) which
will be occasionally renewed Jefore they con
trast a worn appearance.
11. The work, is furnifhed in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubferibers chufe; the price
ot the whole volumes, five dollars each, of the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on sub
scribing, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, theprice of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
Work, will be delivered unless paid for.
111. In the course of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
far exceed in number those given in any other
Scientific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It is expected the work will be comprised in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
AsJevejal gentlemen who have honored this
undertaking with early fubfc? iptions, hate only re
ceived a {wall part of the work, they are earnejlly
requejled to complete their Jets, a s far as publijhed,
immediately, while the publijher jli/l has it in hrs
power tofupply them with the parts which have not
beenfurni/hed. As theJubJcription will very boffi
bly be do fed by the firjl of July next, the publijher
cannot to complete jits after that period ;
and those who wish to become pvffejfors of this truly
valuable and important work, wilt pleaje apply before
the expiration oj that time, that they may not be dis
appointed.
/ rtr v exfence ncccjjarily incurred in car*
r p"g on Ik;s work, makes it tndifpenfabh requisite
Jor the publtjher to adhere more JinS/y tUn lie has
dove to the original condition, of delivering the vo
lumes onl-j, on being paid jor them.
April 6, 1793. f
J"ft publtjhed,
By THOMAS"f)OBSON,
At the Stone Hauje, No. 4 ,, South Second-Street,
A C A S E,
Decided in the Supreme Court of the United
States, in which is difcafled the Oueftion,
A STATE IS LIABLE TO BE
BY A PRIVATE CITIZEN OF
ANOTHER STATE ?
Pries Half a Dollar.
epiaw
Vinall's Arithmetic.
I. C. A. A. A. S.
JUST tUULISMLD,
CIRCULAR LETTr*,
* T»*
historical society
tnthcCmtmc "t'ndipnJ S0 f Ame7 .
SJS,
A SOCIETY h.shtelyheeninft, ,
State. called the HnicK i cj
.he profeffcd design of wh.eh * C^ C '''' i
serve and t ommuni«, t , material, '
hlftory of this country, and j CCO „„, ( c ° m P^ ; s
able efforts of human ingenuity ; v, u
tro,n the beginning of „ > m [ d ° 1,1, .
I ° f ,h,s P'* n - have ,Wt, 4y , '
quantity of book,, pamphlet-alt'
scripts ; and ..e {till f carch of mo „ ' "
logue of which will be p,i n;cd foi } "'*■
tion of the public.
Thty have alio encouraged the n.,K«
a monthly pamphlet, in w„,ch i,
of their enquiries, into the na lllra , ,du '
eccl^ ft '"' h-ftoryof .his rout,,',!*"j"; ' Li
quested that you wouia contribute ,o ~ T"
and importance, by attention to the .nil
nexed The Society be g l«£
your obliging answer to tbcfc of 1 "
when le.fureand opportunity w-IIMrLT" I '
Your letters addrclTcd, free „f JL„T
fublcriber, will be gratefully rcceivld %'!
noticed in the Society',
will have the fatislaftion of comnhui'. y ° a
general Uock of knowledge^ o *,"*'V h '
hope to entertain the public. e y
In the name, and by order ohhe Sori« v
JEREMY MLKN.'p,
Correfpondinj Satojiv.
Bojlon, in Maflaokufctts, Ai a t> , ;yj
Aftkles on lahitb the Sfcittj „„ tJ .
'"formation.
t. The time when y„ ur to*n or city w»ir
corporated; Us Indian name; wher.Lfa.u"
mem began; whether it was interrupted i d
by what means :to wh„ Colony P Co „,"J
was full annexed j and if it*,* h„e h *!
alwratton,, what ifeey Mt , and whr n mtit '*>
• u'J e3, P lo »»> labours and futf mo « „f ,k e
inhabitants in war; particular account, „f J.
vaftattoii,, deaths, captivities and redemption,.
3. Divisions of your tows o» c iv i„ pjnfi.e»
and preach, or the e,«£i,„„ „i new
within the former limits.
4. lime of gathering churches of every J,
nomination ; name, o! the several Mi ol 'h„.
the times of th.tr fettleroem, removal and dats, ■
aod then age at the time of their dej.R.
3. Biographical anecdotes of per sons io your
town, or within your knowledge, who h.re
been remarkable for ingenuity, cnterprife, lite,
ratare, or any other W fo»Me .crumplilhtneni
an account of their literal/ prodtt&onj, ra d if
polfible, copies ot them,
6. Topographical description of your town
or county, and Us vicinity; mountains, rivers,
ponds, animals, vegetable prodn&ions; re.
markable falls, caverns, roinetals, stones, foflils,
pigments, medicinal and poisonous fubftjnccs,
their ules and antidotes.
1* The former a rid pri/gnt 9 ( j T>
tion, and your thoughts on farther improve
ments, either in refpeffc to agrituhure, roads or
canals.
8. Monuments and relicks of the ancient In.
dians number and present ilate of any remain
ing Indians among you.
9* Singular instances of longevity and fecun
dity from the firft fettle meat to the present lime.
10. Observations on the weather, diseases,
and the influence of the climatc, or of particular
fituatiolw, employments and aliments, especi
ally theeffe&of fpirituoos Ikjuofi on the humaft
constitution.
11. Accurate bills of mortality, fpecifyfng
ages and casualties, the proportion of birth! an<j
deaths, and the increase oi decrease of popula
tion.
12- Accounts of manufafturcs and WHeries,
and thoughts on the farther improvement of
them.
13. Modes of education, private or public
what encouragement is given to schools and
colleges, and what is done to advance literamre;.
whether you have a social library, what u the
number of books, and of what vjlue.
14. What remarkable events have befallen
your state, county, town, or particular farailiei
or persons, at any time.
P. S. The Corresponding Members of this
Society arc requested to transmit to the Corre
sponding Secretary, any historical information
of which they nmy be poiTtffed, refpefting any
part of the American Continent and Islands, to
gether with printed acts and journals of Aflbm
blies and Conventions, whether civil or ecclesi
astical. And the Society will gratefully receive
from them and from all other persons whatever,
any books, pamphlets, manuscripts, maps or
plans which may beufeful in forming an histori
cal collection—and any natural or artificial pro
du&ions which may enlarge the Museum.
The Library and Museum aredepofned in an
apartment of Faneuil Hall. Any person desirous
of making a search among the books or manu
scripts, many have access to them under such re
gulations, as may be known by applying to any
one of the members.
PLANS
OF THE
City of Washington,
Solcf by the Booksellers,
DOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, (3 LRUKSHAbK-
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SOUCHONG
Ofthe very fiilt quality, and latfft importitiW
from Canton,tta New-York, by retail,"
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnnt and Market Str«ll.
N. E. A Jew Boxes oj the above MSOX/<*["'•
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY
May be bad at SAMUEL COOPER'j t«'T