—£ —— —>—— —' ''■ - ■ ''''
A. NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY 7OKN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 89 of Vol. IV.]
LAW OF THE UNION.
IJ.CONP
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT T*» SICOND SISSION,
Bcgon knd WW at the City of Philadelphia,
io tlit State af-Petinfylvaqia, on Monday
the fifth sfNoveflntaer, one thuu/and
seven hundred and ninety-two.
An ACT sot- enrolling and Kcenfiijg
Ihips or veflels to be employed in
the coasting trade' and fifheries,
and for regulating the fame.
BE itenaftedby the Senate and House of
Repre Tentative? of the United States of
America, in Congress alTembled, That Ihips
or vessels, enrolled by virtue of lt An ast for
registering and clearing veflels, regulating the
coasting trade, and for other purposes," and
those of twenty tons and upwards, which (hall
be enrolled after the last day of May next, in
puifuance of this ast, and having a licence in
force, or if less than twenty tons, not being
enrolled, /hall have a licence in force, as is
hereinafter required, and no others shall be
deemed ihips or veflels of the United States,
entitled to the privileges of Ihips or vefTels
ejn;>i<»yed in the coasting trade 01* fifheries.
it further er<acted, That from and
afTcT 1 next, in order for
the of any (hip or velTel, (he (hall
poifefs the fame qualifications, and the fame
reqixiiite-, in all TCfjwgXsy; complied
with, as neceflary for regilte"tnTg
ihips pr reffeTs by the ast, intitutled An ast
concerning the registering and recording of
Ihips or veflels/' and the fame duties and
author ties are hereby given and imposed on
all officer", refpeftively, in relation to fuel}
_ enra'nieoi*, the fame proceedings (hallbe
had, in flmilar cafec, touching such enrol-
ments ; and the (Hips or veflels so enrolled,
with the matte, or owner or owners thereof,
(hall be fubjsft to the fame requilites, as are
in those refpefts provided for veflels register
ed by virtue of the aforefaid ast; the record
of which enrolment (hall be made, and an ab
ftraft or copy thereof granted, as nearly as
may be, in the form following u Knrolment
in conformity to an ast of the Congress of the
United State? of America, intituled, " An
ast for enrolling and licensing (hips or veflels,
to be employed in the coasting trade and filhe
ries, and for regulating the fame," (inserting
here the name of the person, with his occupa
tion and pla :e of abode, by whom the oath or
affirmation is to be made) having taken and
fuhferibed the oath (or affirmation) required
by this ast, and having sworn (or affirmed)
that he (or (he, and if more than one owner,
adding the words " together with," and the
name or names, occupation or occupations,
place or places of abode, of the o"-ner or
Owners) is, (or are) a citizen (or citizens) of
the United States, and sole owner (or owners;
of the (hip or veifc], called the [inserting here
her name] of [inserting here the name of the
port to wtiich (he may belong] whereof [in
serting here the name of the master] is at
present matter, and is a citizen of the United
States, and that the said (hip or veflel was
[inserting here when and where built] and
[inserting here the name and office, if any., «f
the person by whom Hie (hall have been fur.
veyed, or admeasured] having certified that
the said (hip of veflel has [inserting here the
number of decks] and [inserting here the
afiinber ®f mads] and that her length is [Vn
ferting here the number of feet] her breadth
[inserting here the number of feet] her depth
[inserting here the number of feet] and that
flie measure? [inserting here her number of
tons] that (he is (describing here the particu
lar kind of vessel, whether (hip, brigantine,
{now, schooner, sloop, or whatever else, to
gether with her built,and fpecifying whether
(he has any or no galley or head) and the said
(naming the owner, or the master, or other
person acting in behalf of the owner or own
ers, by wboin the certificate of admeasure
ment (hall have . been countersigned) (wiring
agreed to the description and admeasurement
above fpecified, and fufficient security having
been gjven, according t« the said ast, the said
ftrp or veflfel has been duly enrolled, at the
port of (naming the port where enrolled) —
Given under my hand and seal, at (naming
the said port) this (inserting the particular
day) day of (naming the month) in the year
(fpecifying the number of thd year, in words
at length.)"
And be it further ena&ed, That it (hall
and may be lawful for the collectors of the fe
veral diftrjets, to enrol and licence my Blip
or veHtl, that ma? bo registered, upon fitch
registry being given up, or to register a'ny (hip
or vessel, that m&y be enrolled, upon such en
rolment and licence being given up. And
when any Ihip or veiTel (hall be in any other
diftriift, th»n the one to which (he'-belongs, the
collector of" such diftrift, on the application of
the mailer or commander thereof, and upon
his taking an oath or affirmation, that, ac
cording to iiis best knowledge and belief, the
property remains, as expressed in the register
or enrolment proposed to be given up, aftd
upon his giving the bonds required for grantl
- remitters, (hall make the exchanges afore
faid ; but in every such cafe, the coll:ftor, to
whom the register, or enrolmnet and licence
may be given up, (hall transmit the fame to
the register of the treasury i and the register,
or enrollment and licence, granted in lieu
thereof, ihall within ten days after the arri
val of fnch ihip or vessel within the diftrifl
to which (he belongs, be delivered to the col
lector of the said diftrifl, and be by him can
celled. And if the said mailer or commander
ihall neglect to deliver the said register or en
»olment and licehce, within the time afore
faidyhe lha.'l forfeit one hundred dollars.
And l)e it further enacted, That in order
to the licenfmg of any ihip or vessel for carry
ing on the coasting trade or iifheries, the hus
band, or managing owner, together with the
matter thereof, with one or more sureties to
the fatisfa&ion of the collector granting the
fame, (hall become bound to |>ay to the Uni
ted States, if such (hip or vessel be of the bur
then of five tons, and less than twenty tons,
the Aim of one hundred dollars; and if twenty
tons, and not exceeding thirty tons, the sura
of two hundred dollars ; and if above thirty
tons, and not exceeding sixty tons, the sum
of five hundred dollars; and if above sixty
tons, the fnm of one thousand dollars. In
cale it ihall appear, within two years from
the date of the bond, that such (hip or vessel
has been employed in any trade, whereby the
revenue of the United States has been de
frauded during the time, the licence granted
~—i vessel remained in force; and
the matter of lue-ir fliip or vessel (hall also
swear, or affirm, that he is a citizen of the
United States, had that fnch licence (hall not
be used for any other vcfT^,
—
ploymen t, thaw that-itrr~wJi?ch it-is specially
granted, or In any trade or business, whereby
the revenue of the United States may be~de
frauded ; and if such (hip or veflel be less than
twenty tons burthen, the hulband or manag
ing owner (ball swear or affirm, that lhe is
wholly the property of a citizen or citizens of
the United States; whereupon it (hall be the
duty of the collector of the diftrift compre
hending the port, whereto such (hip or vessel
may belong (the duty of fix cents per ton be
ing firft paid) to grant a licence, in the form
following: " Licence for carrying on the
[here insert, coasting trade, whale filhery, or
cod filhery, as the cafe may be.]
" In purfuanee of an ast of the Congress of
the United States of America, intituled,
" An ast for enrolling and licensing Ihips or
veflels to be employed in the coasting trade
and fifherics, and for regulating the fame,"
[inserting here the name of the hulband or
managing owner, with his occupation and
place of abode, and the name of the matter,
with the place of his abode] having given
bond, that the [inPert here the description of
the veflel, whether (hip, brigantine, snow,
schooner, sloop, or whatever else (tie may be]
called the [insert here the veflel'j name]
whereof the said [naming the matter] is mal
ter, burthen [insert here the number of tons,
in word?} tons, as appears by her enrolment,
dated at (naming the diftrift, day, month,
ami year, in words at length—but if (he be
lels than twenty tons, insert, instead thereof
proof being had of her admeasurement) (hall
not be employed in any trade, while this li
cence (hall continue in force, whereby the
revenue of the United States (hall be defraud
ed, and having also sworn (or affirmed) that
this licence (hall not be uled for any other
veflel, or for any other employment, than is
herein fpecified, licence is hereby granted for
the said (inserting here the description of the
vessel) called the (inserting here the vessel's
name) to be employed in carrying on the (in
serting here, coasting trade, whale fifhery, or
cod fiiherv, as the cafe may be) tor one year
from the date hereof, and no longer : Given
under my hand and seal, at (naming the said
dittrift) this (inserting the particular day) day
ps (naming the month) in the year (fpecifying
the number of the year in words at length)."
And be it further ena&ed, That no licence
granted to any (hip or vessel,. (hall be consi
dered in force, any longer than such (hip or
veflel Is owned, and of the description Pet forth
in such licence, or for carrying on any other
business or employment than that for which
flic is specially licenced, and if any (hip or
vel&l be found with a forged or altered licence,
or making use of a liccnce granted for any
other (hip or veflel, such (hip or veflel, with
her tackle, apparel, and the cargo found on
board her, (hall be forfeited.
353
Saturday, April 6, 1795.
% * '.si lie it further cnttfted, That after the
l»ft cfsy of May next, every (hip or veflel of
Went* tons or upwards (other than such as
1 are regiflrered) found trading between diftritt
and diftrift, or between ditferect places in
the fame diftrift, or carrying on the fifhcry,
: without being enrolled and licensed, or if less
than twenty tons, and not less than five tons,
without a licence, in manner as is provided
by this ast, such fliip or veflel, if laden with
goods, the growth, or manufacture of the
United States only (diftitled spirits excepted)
or in baHaft, (hall pay the fame fees and ton
nage in every port of the United States, at
which (ha may arrive, as (hips or velTels not
belonging to a citizen or citizens of the Uni
ted Stares, and if (he have on board any arti
cles of foreign growth or manufafiure, or
distilled fbirits, other than sea-stores, the Ihip
or velfel, together with her tackle, appare!
and furniture, and the lading found on board,
lhall be forfeited : Provided, however, if
such or vdffel be at sea, at the expiration of
the time, for which the licence was given,
and the matter of fucb Ihip or veflel (hall
swear or affirm that such was the cafe, and
lhall also within forty-eight Honrs after his
arrive deliver to the coltefcor oi the diftriit
in which tie lhall firft arrive the licence which
lhall hive expired, the forfeiture aforefaid
lhall net be incurred, nor (hall the lliip or
veflel Ve liable to pay the fees and tonnage
aforeftid.
Anii be it further enabled, That the col
lector of each diftrift (hall progreflively num
ber tie licences by him granted, beginning
anew at the commencement of each year,
and shall make a record thereof in a book, to
be by him kept for that purpose, and (hall,
once in three months, tranfrait to the Re
gister of the Treafirry, copies of the licences,
which/hall have been so granted by him ; and
also of such licences, as fliall have been given
up orretnrned to him, refpeftively, in pur
suance of this act. And where any ship or
vessel shaH be licenced, or enrolled anew, or
bein^licenced and enrolled, fliall afterwards
be registered, or being registered, fliall after
wards be enrolled, or licenced, Air (hall, in
every such cafe, be enrolled, licenced or re
gistered by her former name.
And be it farther enacted, That if any
If Ed 8 s
fSTO, lhaH proceed on a foreign voyage, with
out firft giving up her enrolment and licence,
to the coDcctor of the diltrrct comprehending
the port, from which (he is about to proceed
on such foreign voyage, and being duly re
gistered by such collector, every such ship or
vessel, together with her tackle, apparel and
furniture, and the good?, wares and inee
chandizc, so imported thexein, fliall be liable
to seizure and forfeiture : Provided always,
if the port, from which, ( such ship or vefTel is
about to proceed on such foreign voyage, be
not within the diftrift, where such ship or
vessel is enrolled', the collector of fucb diftrift
(hall give to the master of fiich ship or vessel
a certificate, fpecifyuig that the enrolment
and licence of such fliip or vessel is received
by him, and the time when itwasfo received - ;
which certificate fliall afterwards be deliver
ed by the said master to the collector, who
may have granted such enrolment and li
cence.
And be it further enacted, That the li
cence, granted to any ship or vessel, shall be
given up to the collector of the diftrift, who
may have granted the fame, within three
days after the expiration of the time, for
which it was granted, in cafe such (hip or ves
sel be then within the diftrift, qr if die be ab
sent at that time, within three days from
her firft arrival within the diftrift afterwards,
or if she be fold out of the diftrift, within
three days after the arrival of the master
within any diftrift, to the collector of such
diftrift taking his certificate therefor ; and
if the master thereef shall neglect, or refufe
to deliver up the licence, as aforefaid, he
shall forfeit fifty dollars ; but if fnch licence
fliall have been pre vioufly given up to the col
lector .of any other diftrift, as authorized by
this ast, and certificate thereof under the
hand of such collector, be produced by such
master, or if fnch licence be loft, or destroyed,
or unintentionally mislaid, so that it cannot
be fonnd, and the master of such ship or ves
sel shall make and fubferibe an oath or affir
mation* that such licence is loft, destroyed,
or unintentionally mislaid, as he verily be
lieves, and that the fame, if found, fliall be
delivered up, as is herein required, then the
aforefaiff penalty (hall uot be incurred. And
if f«ch licence shall be loft, deftroytd, or un
intentionally mislaid, as aforefaid, before the
expiration of the time, for which it was
granted, upon the like oath or affirmation be
ing made and fubferibed by the matter of
such ship or vessel, the said collector is here
by authorized and required, upon applica
tion being made therefor, to licence such
ship or vessel anew.
And be it further enacted, That it shall
and may be lawful for the owner or owners
of any licenced ship or vessel, to return such
licence to the collector who grunted the fame,
[Whole No. 41 j.]
*t »Y time within lllii vear, for wJielv it
was granted, who (hall tfcoif e*n«el
•the fame and (hull licence fucti veifef knew,,
upon the application^the owner or owncr',,
and upon the conditions herein before re
quired, being complied with } and in cafe the
term, for which the former licence Wa* grant
ed, shall not be expired, an abatement of the
tonnage of fix cents per ton lh&ll be made, in
the proportion of the time so u nexpired.
And be it farther enacted, That every li
cenced (his) or veflel (hall have her name, and
the port to which she belongs, painted oil Jipr
stern, in the manner as is provided for re
gistered (hips or vessels, and if any licenced
(hip or veJTel be found, without such paint'
ing, the owner or- owners thereof (hall pay
twenty dollars.
And be it further ena&ed, That when the
niafter of any licenced ship or vessel, ferry
boats excepted, (hall be changed, the new mas
ter, or, in cafe of hw ablenc«, the owner or
one of the owners thereof, ftiaH report- fodi
change to the collector residing at the pot*
wliere tbcfam? mavtiapptfii, if ttlere be one,
otherwise, to the col.'edtor i efidiug at my
port, wbere Curb (hijj or vcffcl may nexr ar
rive, wfio, upon the ojtfh or affirmation of
fiich new niafter, or in r»'e of his absence, of
the owner or one of the owners, that he is a
citizen of the United States, and that such
(hip or vqflel (hull not, whijc such licence con
tinues in force, be employed in any manner,
whereby the revenue of the United States
may be defrauded, (hall endorse such change
on tha licenco, with the name of the new
matter ; and when any change (hall happen,
as aforefaid, and such change (ball not be re
ported, and the endorsement made of such
change, as is herein required, such lh.ij> or
veflel, found carrying on the coaftuig trade
or fiiheries, (hall be fubjeft to pay the fame
fees and tonnage, as a veflel of the United
States, having a register, and the>faid new
matter (hall forfeit and pay the sum of ten
dollars.
And be it further enacted, That it shall be
lawful, at all times, for any officer conceriu>d
in the colleftlon of the revenue, to infpeft
the enrolment or licence of any fliip or vessel $
and if the matter of any Ihip or vessel {hall
not exhibit the fame, when thereunto requi
red by fUoh oificer, be fliltt pay one hundred
dollars^
And be it further enaffed, That the master or
commander of eve/v fh'p or vessel licenced for
carrying on the coasting trade, deflined from a
diftrifl: in one Stale, to a difrtift in the fame, or
an adjoining Slate on the fe« eoaft, ar o» a navi.
gable river, having on board, either diftilted
fpuita in calks exceeding five hundred gallons,
wine in calks exceeding two hundred arid fifty
gallons, or in bottles exceeding one hundred
dozens, sugar in calks or boxes exceedingUtree
thousand pounds, tra in cherts or boxes exceed
ing five hundred pounds, coffee in calks or bags
exceeding one thousand pound), or foreign mer.
chandize-in packages, as imported, exceeding
in value four hundred dollars, or goods, wares
or merchandize, confiding of fiich enumerated
or other articles of foreign growth or manufac
ture, or of both, whose aggregate value exceeds
eight hundred dollars, shall, previous to the de
parture of such, ship or vessel, f»ora ttw port
where (he may then be, make out and £übfcrib«
duplicate manifefts of the whole ol such cargo
on board such ship or vessel, ftecifying in.such
manifefts, the marks and numbers of every cask,
bag, box, cbeft or package containing the fame,
with the name and place of residence of ev*r«y
shipper and confujnee, aud the quantity (hipped
by and to each, and if there be a collector or
ftlrveyor, residing at such port, or within fiy p
miles thereof, he (hall deliver such manifefts to
the collector, if there be one, otherwise ta the
furvevor, before whom he shall swear or affirm,
to the best of his knowledge and belief, that the
goods therein contained were legally imported,
and the duties thereupon paid or secured, or if
spirits difti-lled within the United States, that the
duties thereupon have been paid or fecurcd,
whereupon the said collefior or fuivevnr (hail
certify (he fame on on the said maniftfts, ooe
of which he (hall return to the said master, with
a permit, fpecifying thereon, generally, the la
ding on board such (hip or vessel, and author
izing him to proceed to the port of hisdeftina
tion. And if any (hip or vessel, beini; laden
and destined, as aforefaid, (hall depart from the
port where (he may then be, without the master
or commander having fii (I made out and sub
scribed duplicate manifefts of the lading on
board such (hip or vessel, and in ea!e there be
» colleftoror surveyor tcfiding at such port, or
within five miles thereof, without having previ
ously delivered the fame to the said collrftor or
futveyor, and obtaining a permit, in manner as
is herein required, such master or commander
(hall pay onehnndred dollars.
And be it further enacted. That the master or
commander of every (hip or vessel licenced tor
carrying on the coasting trade, having oo board,
eitherdiftiHed spirits in calks exceeding five
hundred gallons, wine m calks exceeding two
hundred and fifty gal lorn, or in. bottles exceed
ing one hundred dozens, sugar in calks or box
es exreeding three thousand pounds, tea in chests
01 boxes exceeding five hundred pounds, coffee
in calks or b*gs exceeding one thousand pounds,
or foreign merchandize in packages, as unpoll
ed, exceeding in value fout hundred dollars,
■ •*
o
*•©t toodi, watts or merchandize, confining of
such enumerated or other Articles of foreign
growth or manufa&ure, or of both whole aggre
gate value exceeds eight hundred dollars,and ar
mingfrom a diftritt in one State, at a, diltritt
in the fame or an adjoining State on the ea
coaft, or on a navigable river, (hall, previous to
the unlading of any part of the cargo of uch
(hip or vessel, deliver to the collcOor, *f there
be one, or if not, to the surveyor residing at the
port of her arrival, or if there be no collector o<
surveyor residing at such port, then to a collector
or surveyor, if there be any such officer, residing
within hve miles thereof, the manifeft of toe
cargo, certified by the colle&or or surveyor ol j
the diftritt from whence (he failed (if there bt
such manifeft) otherwise the duplicate manifefts
thereof, as is herein before diretted, 10
truth of whicli, before such officer, he shall
swear or affirm. And if there have been taken
on board luch (hip or vc(fel, any other Or more
goods, than are contained in such manifeft or
manifefts, since her departure from the port,
from whence (he firft failed, or if any goods
have been since landed, the laid matter or com
mander (hall make known and particularize
the fame to the said colle&or or surveyor, or if
no such goods have been so taken on board or
landed, he (hall so declare, to the truth of
which he (hall swear or affirm : Whereupon the
said eolle&or or surveyor (hall grant a permit
for unlading a part, or the whole of such cargo,
as the said matter or commander may request.
And if there be no colle&or or surveyor, re
siding at, or within five miles of the said port of
her arrival, the matter or commander of such
(hip or vessel may proceed to discharge the la
ding from on board such (hip or vessel, but
(hall deliver to colle&or or surveyor, resid
ing at the firft port, where he may next after
wards arrive, and within twenty-foui hours of
his arrival, the manifeft or manifefts aforefaid.
noting thereon the times when, and places
where, the goods, therein mentioned, have been
unladen, to the truth of which, before the (aid
last mentioned colle&or ox furyeyor, h$
swear or affirm ; and if the master or command
fer of any such {hip or vessel, being Ude<i as a
forefaidi (hail neglect or refufe to deliver, the
manifeft or manifefts, at the times, and in the
manner herein c(i retted, he (hall pay one hun
dred dollars.
(To be concluded in our next.)
Foreign Intelligence,
Received by Ship Fanny, Capt.Tarbert,
arrived at Norfolk, (rir.) in 46
days from Greenock.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION
Thursday, January 17
TH E Appeal Nominal on the
question, -what pun'tjbment Jhall
te infiidtd- an Louis Capet ? continu
ed through the whole of jefterday
and the preceding night,each mem
ber assigning reasons for his opini
on. The following are the most
remarkable.
Deftigoyte —" I will not enter in
to any composition with tyrants.
I vote'for death and speedy execu
tion of the sentence."
Garran de Conlon —" I am of opi
nion we cannot exercise, at the fame
time the funflions of Accufers,Judg
es, and Jury- The people did not
delegate to us the right of pro
nouncing without their ratification.
I consider that to be tyranny, when
men place thetnfelves above that e
ver fact ed law, the sovereignty of
the people. I refpetf the opinions
of those who entertain sentiments
different from mine, but I cannot a- |
dopt them.''
Chabot—" I vote for death,' be
cause Louis has been a tyrant be
cause he is still one, and because he
may again become so."
Roberfpierre—" Because you
have eftabliftied yonrfelves the judg
es of Louis, without the usual forms,
are you less his judges ? You can
not separate your quality of Judge
from thatof Legislator. Thei'etwo
qualities are indivisible. You have
acknowledged the crimes of the ty
rant. It is your duty so puuifli them.
No confederation should make you
hesitate refpetfting the puniftiment
refeTved for the greatest criminal
that ever existed. I vote for the
punifhmem of death."
Dannoti—" I am not one of those
Jfotefmen who know not how to de
termine but from political princi
ples. lam a Republican, and do
not hesitate refpetfting the choice
of that punifliment reserved for
Louis the last. You ought to strike
terror into tyrants by an inflexibili
ty of character. I vote for the pu
nifliment of death "
Robert —" I vote for death ; and
if anv regret remains with me, it is,
that iny competence does not extend
to all tyrants. I would condenir
them all to death."
Barrere —" The tree of liberty
does not flouiifli, unless moistened
with the blood of Kings. I-vote
for death."
Egalite—" Those who have
made, or may make attempts againtt
the fovereigiity of the people de
serve death—l vote for death."
Condorcet —" 1 declare that no
circumstance except the prefeut
could indace me to pronounce sen
tence ot death against any one. 1 re
quell, that the severest punishment,
next to death, may he inflitfed on
Louis ; but in cafe death fliall be
pronounced againrt him, I requett
that the political confederation pre
fented by Malche, viz. ' VVtihtfcflr
the punilhment ought to be accele
rated or retarded ?' ought to be
difcufled."
Lananal—" A republican is anup
of few words. The motives £>f my
opinion are here. [Laying his hand
on his heart]. I vote for death."
Barbaroux —" I vote for the death
of the tyrant. In a few moments
1 {hall vote for the expulsion of his
family."'
Villette *' I vote for the con
finement of Louis as an hostage of
peace. He is overturned aniidft the
ruins of the throne, and will now
close up every avenue of it.'
Anarchariis Clooti—"ln the name
of the Human Race, I vote for the
death of Louis.
Thomas Paine—" I vote for the
provisional confinement of Louis,
and for his expulsion after the war.
Briftot—" I am of opinion 'that
the only way of avoiding the dan
gers which threaten us, is to pro
nounce the punishment of death
again (I Louis, and defer its execu
tion to the moment when the people
(hall have fandlioned the constitu
tion which we shall present them.
The l'refident announced that he
was going to proclaim the result of
the Appeal Nominal. . The most
profound silence prevailed for seve
ral minutes. He said—
" The alTembly is composed of
74J members —one of these is dead,
6 indisposed, 2 absent without caufte, |
and censured in the minutes confor
mable to the decree—ll absent upon
comniiffions, and 4 who do not vo(e,
making in all 23 members who have
given no opinion. The number .of
votes is tkas—reduced to 72P-,
order that there may be a majority,
it is neceflary fiioul£ be
an union of 361 fuffrages : 2i_ mem
bers have voted for death, with the
demand of a difcuflion on the pe
riod of his execution ; one has voted
for death, with the reserve of its
commutation or delay ; two for
death, not to be carried into execu
tion till peace, unless in cafe of in
vasion on the French territory, to
be inflidted in 24 hours after the in
vasion ; 2 for chains; 319 for im
prisonment and banifliment —and
[66 for death.
The President then lowering the
tone of his voice, amidst the mod
awful silence, pronounced the sol-
lowing fentencc :
" I declare then, in the niitne ef
the Convention, that the punifh
nient which it prono«nc#« against
LOUIS CAPET, is—DEATH."
Saturday, January 19.
At eleven o'clock the fitting had
not opened, on account of the ab
sence of the President and two Se
cretaries. It was demanded that
they should be cenfurad ; but the
President Vergnieaux being indif
posed, and the Secretaries giving
fufficient excuse, the decree of cen
sure was repealed.
Several members spoke on the
question of a respite.
M.Buzot represented the personal
dangers which threatened those
who approved of a delay. • I con
clude with giving as my opinion,
that the execution of the fenrence
of death be deferred till the expul
sion of all the Bourbons.
Thuriot—l d-envand that £«uis be
executed within 34 hours, aftd" that
the executive council be charged to
take the measures neceff'ary to en
sure the public fafety.
Legendre—The hour of justice is
now come the head of LouJs mull
fall on the fcaffold. lam against
all respite.
After some debate, the question
was determined (imply thus : Shall
there, or (hall there nut beadelay ?
354
The nominal appeal commenced
at eight o'clock, At midnight the
Prendent announced—" That no
delay could take place, there being
a majority of 38 voices for the exe
cution of the sentence at the expi
ration of 24 hours."
Monday, January 21.
The fining commenced by read
ing the following letter :
" Representatives,
« Benoit-Louis Leduc begs the
National Contention will permit
him to give to Louis Capet thole
fnneral honors which the dignity
of the National Convention ought
to allow him. He requefls there
fore that they will order the body
of Louis Capet -to be delivered to
him, that he may carry it to Setis,
and deposit it near that of his fa-*
ther." .
After an observation made by
Chabot, that Louis ought to be bu
ried like other citizens in the usual
burying place of the Sedtion in
which he lived, the Convention
pafled to the Order of the day.
Mangeot being admitted to the
bar, informed the Convention, that
in the ci-devant Palaisßoyal,he had
heard expressions in fa'vor of Louis,
and among others, the following :
" Louis, then, is condemned to
death, but those who have condemn
ed him, may perilh in their turn."
Mangeot added, that the expressions
he had heard seemed to agree with
the all'affination which had been
committed on the person of Pelle
tier.
Thuriot —" One of our colleagues,
whose foul was always pure, has
fallen by the hand of an aflaffin.—
| It is of the utmost importance that
the Convention (hould discover the
plot of the conspiracy ; we fliall
then fee from what quarter the
blow has proceeded. It is ho lon
ger time to diflemble. There ex
ists a conspiracy against the purell
patriots. All traitors and conspira
tors mud be seized, put in chains,
and be dragged to the fcaffold. I
move that the Executive Council be
ordered to give an account of the
circumstances which J>rf" a - J >
con.panied and followed the tranf
a<f^ion —whether Pans, the assassin,
formerly one of the body guards
he arretted, and his papers fealea
up."
Maure —" A friend of relleiier
gave the following account of his
alTaffination. He wag dining yef
day at the Garden de I'Egalite, in a
Coffee-houfe kept by one Ferrier.
Six persons came from an adjoining
apartment, and one said, «• There
is that scoundrel Pelletier Saint
Fargeau.' 'My name is Pelletier,'
replied the Deputy, ' but I am not
a scoundrel.' ' Did you rot vote
for the death of the King ?' 'Yes
I did, but that was a duty imposed
on ine by my conscience.' Scarcely
had he pronounced the words when
Paris thrust his sabre into the lower
part of his belly, which occasioned
a large and deep wound. Saint
Fargeau requested that no hurt
might be done to the ailaffin. He
was carried to his father's house,
and expired this morning, wilhing
that his death might be ufeful to
the Republic."
Many members complained of
having received letters threatening
their lives.
The Conveution palled a decree
to attend his funeral.
The Convention then recurring
to the various propofitinns which
had been made, decreed as follows.
I. An address to the French peo
ple refpedling the present circum
stances (hall be drawn up.
11. Every citizen (hall, in the
course of 24 hours, declare, under
the penalty of a fine of
Whether he has any Emigrants as
lodgers.
111. The Committee of the pub
lic fafety, (hall be renewed, and
(hall coufift of twelve members, cho
sen by open vote.
IV. The plan of the new consti
tution (hall be presented in the
course of a fortnight.
PARIS, Jan. 2t.
On Friday morning the Dauphin
stole down ft airs—the feniry at the
dobr aiked him where he was go
i"g—" into the street, replied the
infant Prince, thrnoghout all tV,
to beg of the people not 10 kill m ' v
dear Papa." One of the gu.rd,
carried him to the King ; when he
heard what the child had said he
burst into tears, and prelTed him to
his bosom.
The King took leave ofthe Queen
and his infant Son and
at five .'clock y eiterday afternoon'
The Queen was in a raving deliri
um.
Defeze, the King's Counffl. i,
dying with a broken heart.
M. Malefherbes is the man who
announced the Kinghis faieinthefe
words 'My Prince I know yon are
courageous, but I cannot forbear
telling you, sentence has been naff,
ed." *
" Well then (said the devoted
King) so much the better, my rtfqi
lution is already formed, I behold
without terror, my last hour aj*
proaching; and I ftiall lay my head
on the block without any uneasiness;
what will perhaps furpiifeyou mire,
is, that my Wife and Sifter tfclnk
on this fubjetft exadtly as I do."
Maleflierbes fell at his feet and
said ; " 1 will never leave you, my
good Prince I would die "for you."
—He was torn from the Royal vic
tim by a Municipal Satellite, who
told him, he had orcjeis from the
Council that he (hould quit the Tem
ple. Malefherhe* departed, and
fainted before the door. He was
carried home, and is much indif-
posed.
His Majesty had embraced liiir,
taking a ling off his finger and giv
ing it tohim,faying "Remevtbtrm
January 22.
THE EXECUTION.
Conformably to the arrangement
made by the executive council, Louis
was yesterday put to death at the
Place de la Revolution, heretofore
Place de Louis XV.
Twenty-five citizens of known
principles, well arrarrl. —j—
with the manual exercise, and liav.
jng each 16 rounds of (hot, were
cho fen from relf,ion 10 fo,m a
guarn of 1200 men, who accompa
nied the unfortunale monarch 10
the place of execution.
Strong detachments from ilie dif
ferent legions were polled in tht
(treets through which the royal pri
soner was to pass, and also in all the
avenues leading to the place de la
Revolution, to prevent any confu*
fion, and each fedlion had a body in
reserve, ready to move at a moment's
warning, to maintain public order,
ftiould any attempts have been made
to disturb it.
Cannon were also distributed in
every quarter, whereic was thought
they could be any way serviceable,
had events made it neceflary to have
employed them ; for even to the
last moment the sanguinary facftion,
I who pronounced the death of the
I unfortunate monarch, manifefted
I symptoms of fear that some attempt
I might be made to rescue liim.^
Between eight and nine
I in the morning, Louis proceeded
from his apartments iii the Temple,
and got into the Mayor's ca " ia^'
I w
h« accompanied him, as did alio
M. Edgworth, or de Fermori, an
Irish priest, whom he requeued
I might attend him. Louis was are ■
fed in a brown great coat, white
waistcoat, black breeches and ItocH-
I i„gs—his hair was drefled.
The proceflion, commanded >
I Marefchal Santerre,proceeded alorg
I the Boulevards, to the place ae a
I Revolution. One hundred Oe
darmes on horseback formed an a
I vanced guard to the precefiion.
1 rear guard was composed of iop n
I tional guards from the rnilita J
school. Various reserves of cava
I lined the procession, and pat' 9
the out-lkirtsof the city. . ,
The unfortunate monarch arn
I at the foot of the fcaffold at tw
minutes pad ten. He moMiK d tW
fcaffold with firmnefs andd'gnir,.
. I appeared deftrous to addre
, people, but even this was den.ea
him. Drums and trumpets g
the signal, and at twenty-tw®
I nutes past ten his head wa
1the Kipghad entered it—thofehow
ever who had previously entered,
and gQt near enough to the fcaffold,
notwithstanding the indecent noise
of drums and trumpets, heard him
plainly pronounce these words—
:< Citizens, I forgive tuy enemies,
and I die innocent !"
Afier his death the liearelt spec
tators divided among thein what ot
his hair had been cut off by the
ftioke of the guilotine, and several
persons were so inhuman as to dip
their handkerchiefs in his blood,
which they afterwards carried a
bout,Tcrying—" Behold the blood
of a tyrant 1" _ ,
Louis, 011 mounting the Icattold,
jnrtantly took off his ttock himfelf,
as well as his great coat, and un- I
fall en ed* his shirt collar. His hair
had been clubbed up close like an
Abbess, that no indignity might be
offered him, or that it should occa
sion no delay by hanging
The executioner went np to tie his
arms, which the King recoiled at ;
but ic was soon done-—The execu
tioner then took up a large pair of
fciU'ars to cut off his hair. The
King appeared mortified at what
was doing, and said, " I have put
all right" —the executioner, how
ever, cut the hair off.
When the executioner fiiewed his
head to the people, cries of Vive la
Nation ■> five la Republic J were
heard on all fides, & several groups
made ute of the following exprel
fions—" VVe always wished Well to
him, but he never wished well to
ns!" Many, however, shewed e
-111 ot ions of a different natute, but
which they were obliged to conceal,
as much as possible, for their own
personal fafety.
His body was transported to the
parish church of La Magdelane,
where it was interred (without any
insult being offered to it) between
the persons who loft their lives dn
the illuminations on account
of his and the Swiss who
fell on the 10th of August.
Louis, before his departure from
the Temple, delivered to the Com
missioners of the Council General,
who were upon the gWHvJj ins ihi
ter wj]I f twn copics of which he
had written on the 2S'h of Decem
ber lafl—a copy of which I hope to
fe»d you-to-morrow. •
Three thonfand livres (1201. ster
ling) were found in his apartments
at the Temple, which were sent to
the Council General of the Com
mons.
The city remained quiet, in gloo
my silence, through the whole of
the dstf. In the morning the shops
were (hut, and no woman was al
lowed to be in the streets till the
procession returned with the body
of Louis.
LONDON, Jan. 26.
The wretched Royal Family of
France have not been removed, as
was reported, neither is the daugh
ter of the king ill, if we may be
lieve an official paper which has
been published by the Council of
the Commons, which states pri
soners of the Temple as remaining
there by 'virtue of a decree which
had not been repealed.
The Princess Royal ofFrance was
educated and brought up after the
English fafhion ; the has not the
lealt appcarance of a French wo
man either in person, mind or man
ners.
Copy of a letter {row Lord Crenvillett
Motif. Chauvlin.
Whitehall, Jan. 24.
I am charged to notify to you,fir,
that the charader with which you
•have been inverted at this court,and
the fuuiftion of which have been so
long suspended, being now termi
nated, by the fatal death of his inoft
Christian majesty.you have no more
any public character here.
The King can no longer, after
such an event,permit ycur residence
here. His majelly has thought fit
to order,that you should retire from
this kingdom within the term of
eight days ; and I herewith trsnf
niit to yon a copy of the order,
which his majesty, in his Privy
Council, hus ordered to this effetft.
1 fend you a uaffport (or you and
Your fuile ; and 1 fha'.l not fail to
take all the other neceflary steps, in
order that you may return to France,
with all the attentions which arts
■clue to the character of minister Ple-
nipotentiary from his mod Christian
majesty, which you have exercised
at this court.
I hav'e the honor to be, &c.
(Signed) GRENVILLE.
January 31.
Copy ojhis Majtjly's Mejjagt to the Hou/e of Com-
-'ua~ ~~ a *
monSy January 28.
His majesty has given dire&iotis for laying
before the house of commons, copies of ieve
ral"papers received from M. Chauyeliu, late
miniiter plenipotentiary from the most Chris
tian King, by his Majesty's fearetary of state,
and of the answers thereto, and a copy of an
srder made by his Majesty in council, travtf
injKed'to the said M. (Jhauvelin ia.'Ctottfs
-of the account t>f the attrociOus a<ft
•ecently perpetrated at Paris.
In the preient situation of affairs, his Ma
efty thinks it indispensably neceflary tom?ke
i farther augmentation of his forces by sea
ind land, and relies on the known affection
;nd zeal of the House of Commons to enable
iin to take tne motl eff?&ual measure?, in
he present important conjuncture, for iwain
lininj? the fecurrty and rights of his own do-
minions, for fupfSjrtirg his allies,, arid for
opposing views of aggrandizemtfnt and ambi
tion on the part of France, which would be
at all times dangerous to the general inter
ests of Europe, but as peculiarly so when con
nected with the propagation of principles
which lead to the violation of the most sacred
duties, and are utterly subversive ol the peace
and order of civil society.
At Tunbridge Wells, on Friday,
it was thought right to tie a figure,
reprefeming the Writer of the
Rights of Man, to a cart's tail, and
flog hini through the town. In or
der to give the whipping fcerie a
better effetf, a man was concealed
in the cart, who bellowed out lofti
ly at every stroke, and well support
ed the characfieriftic obstinacy of
Paine ; for no f'mart, nor even the
promise of mercy, could extort from
him that ejaculation commonly used
by criminals under flagellation,
namely, " God save the King !"
The figure was afterwards burnt,
with the ceremony that has been
observed in other places.
A country carpenter, who ne
gledted the making a gibbet, which
was ordered by the executioner, 011
the ground that he had not been
paid for a former one, gave so much
ott'eucc, .h e next time the judge
came into the tliftritf, he was sent
for. " Fellow !" said his Lordfliip,
in an angry tone. " K-—
to negle<sl making the gibbet that
was ordered on my account ?"—I
a(k your pardon, Sir," said the C ar
penter, " if I had known it had
been for you, it should have been
done immediately.'*
Domestic Articles.
BRUNSWICK, (N.J) April 3.
On Monday morning, at eleven o'clock,
Judge Paterfon set out from his house in Bur
pet-ftreet, escorted by the Brunfwick com
pany of Light Infantry, and a large number
of refpe&able citizens, to Capt.Hillyer's {loop,
on board which he embarked with ibme other
gentlemen for New-York, on bis way to
Georgia, ami rift repeated testimonials of de
ferred relpedt and esteem for the man who
has served his country in manv high and im
portant offices with diftinguiftied reputation-
Viitttt tvill luuie its rzuard.
PROVIDENCE, fR. I.) 28.
The confirmation of the account published
in osr last of the Murder of Louis XVI.
was received in this town on Monday lad,
and the countenances of the inhabitants fuffi
ciently Ihewed their feelings on the melan
choly occafior—the bells in the houses of pub
lic worship weie tolled all the evening.
NORWICH, March 28.
From the various accounts inserted in this
day's publication, of the execution of the un
fortunate Louis—the American public may
reft afltired, that the unfortunate Monarch,
whose friendfhip for them was (hewn in the
most generous afliftarce, in perilous times, is
now no more. He has fallen a facrifice to
the cau'e which he so greatly cherifted.
BOSTON, March bo.
Ycfterday the Bill for preventing excel* and
eiprn'e in Theatric}! Representations, &c. was
again debated, in thfc House of Reprefentativea.
Thr old ground *>»• gone over "gain ; both
pro and ctn, on the fubjeft; and the qurliion,
(hall this Bill have a third-reading ; was deter
mined In the affirmative by yeas 64; nays 54.
PHILADELPHIA.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 perCer.ts, <7f'^
3 per Ce»t», 10/3
Offerted, »iJ
Full fharct Bank U. S. 12 p<f ccoi. prftn
Philadelphia, April 6.
Yeitertiay arrived here from Lisbon, the
"Clip Jotof Eulkeley, Opt. Wl-ni toi —C• ptain
Wbafton fays that a letter had been received
by Mr. Bulkeley, an eminent merchant there,
before he failed, from Mr. Fenwick the Ame
rican Confiii at Bourdeaux, informing him,
that trie French government had declared
war on the Bth of February against England,
Holland and Raffia.
Yesterday. alfb arrived in this port from St.
Vincents and St. Euftatras, the Brig Kitty,
Capt. M'A,!fifter —The Kitty left St. Vin
cents tfce iSth ult.—The Captain gives the
followmg>l(Stere(fing account—That the Fe
briiaryspuck.et had arrived -at St. Vincents
WxpfrefiWiHinJS'igtand, with£Qv;trijment d:f
patchef), having neither . private letters nftr
ne\yfpapers pn board—that ftie brought an ac
count of the declaration of War oil the part
of France, and orders to put the Islands un
der martial taw, which was immediately pro
claimed—Tl|at Lord Hood was to fail in three
days after the packet, for the Islands, with fif
teen fail of the line,and a large body of troops.
The dav after Capt. M'Allifter left St. Vin
cents he (topped at St.Eofiatius—A fliip from
Liverpool ih 39 days, and another from Bour
deaux in fp tad just arrived there—from the
Captains of which Capt. M'Allifter received
the following account —That an embargo had
taken place in England the 16th February
that War had been declared by France against
the King and Nobility of Great-Britain, in
diflinftibn frorii the people—that the Queen
of France was tried the loth Feb. and Be
headed the 1
A New-York paper fays, that a letter from
Oporto of 28th of Feb. to a gentleman in that
city, mentions that the Court ot Portugal de
clared War against France on the 26th of that
month-Wind that an Engliih vessel had arriv
ed at Lisbon frojn Bourdeaux, having cut her
cabieij'JßjepMting to have been seized in port
by the French.
ixtrad tf» Letter, dated April 2, 1793, from a
Merchant in Baltimore, to his torrefpcmdcnt in
this City. '
" Sly The brig Ann, Captain Beard, which
arrivefj.'bet'i' this morning from Lilbon,
which place (he left the 24th of February, we
are informed that a Britilh Packet had ar
rived at that port the day before lie failed,
*nd brought the very interesting news of the
trench having absolutely declared war a
£ainft Great-Britain.
: " The Capt. is a man of veracity, and the
intelligence brought by him cannot be donat
ed -»-H» further adds, that a packet had fail
ed tw»l»'eeks previous to the one that had
sr-d it was in confeqnence of her
delay, conjectured that {he had been captured,
as tlie French cruisers had heen out, and as
Capt.''Beard had himfell' been chafed by a
Fre«wh" frigate."
' has paired the Legislature of this
' CbftiiWHlwealth. empowering the Governor 10
inrnrnmate a Company for the purpose of pro-
Samuel Miles, Tench Francis, John Swan
wick, Timothy Pickering and Israel Whelrn,
are appointed commiflioners by the aQ, to re
ceive filbferiptions lor the purpo(e» of the incor
poration. Ten Dollars on a (hare is to be paid
at fubferibing as a deposit and part payment
each otf son to fubfciibe for as many (bares as
they (hall think proper. The Corporation may
hold and poflefs land, in one or more parcels,
for the purpofea of their inftuution, not exceed
ing 1000 acres.
Fifteen per cent , per ann. is the averaged profit
011 well cultivated vineyards. Mr. Le Gaux's
plan will, therefore, not only prove highly be
neficial to the state at large, but profitable to
those concerned in the business.
Mr. Rickets opened his Circus last Wednes
day, agieeable to notice—upwards of 7CO per
iods It IS said attended—his performances were
much applauded.
Mr.-31anehard is making preparations for a
46th Aerial Flight. His plan is such, we un
derftani, as to accommodate all who have a
wi(h to encourage this bold adventurer, or to
enjoy one of the molt magnificent fpeftacles,
viewed, that the arts can boast of.
The following gentlemen are elected Repre
sentatives in Congress from the state of Virginia
— Tamrs Madison, Samuel Griffin, Jofiah Par
ker, Thomas Claiborne, Andrew Moore, Ro
bert Ru'hrrford, John Heath, George Hancock,
Eranci; Preston.
Wiljiam Smith, Alexander Gillon, Lemuel
Benton, Richard Winn, John Hunter and An
drew Pickens, Efq'rs. are elected Reprefent
arives in Congress from the state of South.
Carolina.
The Indians continue their depredations and
mutders o«i the Southern Frontiers.
1 he President of the United Stales arrived at
Baltihiort last Saturday, and pursued his route
next morniag for Virginia.
Abftraa ojthe Account of the City Treafurtr.
Balance in the Treafuter'j bands,
ift june, 1791, . 2 5 f
Received on icomnt of the city tax 8650 4 34
on account of Co»poration 6799 10 5J
Paid on acrount of
£-994* "> i
Paid on account of
ttie Corporation 4,307 49$
Treaforer 1 ® com-
mrtfiom on mo
nie» received *nd
paid
Balance m the
hands of the
; Tre»furer, ex
clufivf of 83*1.
in ptper money
*97 $ 11
973 3 7t
— L ?a.5'9 »7
On Tuesday last the CORNER STOME
the AFRICAN CHURCH, was laid in Fiftli
ftreer, between Walnut and Spruce-ftrects, by
f<Hir of the members of the Church. One of
them afterwards kneeled down upon the ftotie
and grayed in a fervent ft* inner, for l:»e fuccef*
and ufcfulnefs oC the undertaking.
Married, on Mondav evening, by the Right
Rev. Dr. White, Mr. pHinr Nicklin, Mer
chant, of this city, to Miss Juliana Chew,
daughter of the Hon. Ben jam i n Chew , Elq.
Married, Thurfdav A. M. by Bifbop White,
Mr. John Russell, of Boston, Printer—to
Miss Eliza Mi lne, daughter of Mr. Edmund
Milne of this City.
On Sunday lalt wfcre interred in Chrift-Chlirch
burying ground, the remains of Mr. David
Hall, eldest son of Mr. William Hall,
printer, of this city, attended by an uncommon
multitude of citizens. The promising virtue*
and talents of this amiable young man? cut off
in the 19th year of his age, excited universal
sympathy in all who knew him, or his parents.
Died in New-York, Col. James Chnftie, of
the late American army.
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship John Bulkeley, Wharton, Lilbon
Brig Kitty, M'Allifter, St. Vincents
Little Sarah, Lowrey, Jamaica
James and Jean, Duncan, Montego-Bay
Nancy, Barry, do.
Sloop Faney, Darrel, Bermuda
About the 10th March came on Jengoteague
shoals, situate opposite the North end ot Acco
mack county, Virginia, a small Brig, entirely
wrecked, and full of water, without any living
creature on board ; no appearance has discover
ed what vessel (he was, further than the image
head—this was a female figure, with two birds,
the words, The Golden Phanix ; a few rice calks
were found, which are the only part of any car
go seen ; some little ot her fails and rigging were
saved by the island people, from her masts that
were along fide.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By "Thomas Dobfon,
Book feller, at the Stone-House, in Second Jlrect,
VOLUME VIII, OF /
ENCYCLOPEDIA*
OR, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS,SCIENCES,
AND MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new :
tr WHICH
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
are into the Form of Diftin&,
TREATISES or SYSTEMS :
AN Account of the Cape of Good Hope,
Grafting, Universal Grammar, GraflVs,
Greece, Greenland, Guam, Guinea, Gunnerv,
Happiness, Harmony, Heat, Hepatic-Air, He
raldry, Hindoftan, Hippotaiwus, History, New-
Holland, Horse, Horfemanfoip, Hottentots,
Hunting, Husbandry, Hydrometer, with a great
variety of Biographical and Mifccllaneous Arti
cles. Embellished wicb fix teen Coppeiplaies.
CON D I T I O N S.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the putpofe) which
will be occasionally renewed before they con
trast a worn appearance.
11. The work, is furniftied in in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubferibers chufe; the price
ot the whole volumes, five dollars each, ol the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to oe paid on sub
scribing, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unless paid for.
111. In the courfeof the publication will be de
livered abdut five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
tar exceed in number those given in any other
fcientific di&ionary. At the clofeot the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It isexpe&ed the work will be compiifed in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
As fevcral gentlemen who have honored this
undertaking with early [übferiptions, have only re
ceived a (nail part of the work, they are earneJHy
requejled t# complete their fits, as far as publifhed y
immediately, while the puilijher Jlill has it in his
power to supply them with the parts which have not
been Jurmjhtd. As the fubjeription will very pojji
bly be closed by the firjl of July next, the publisher
cannot undertake complete fits after that period ;
and thole who wijh to become poMors of this truly
valuable and important work, wilt please apply bef ore
the expiration oj that time, that they may not be dis
appointed.
The very heavy expence necessarily incurred in car
rying on this work, makes it mdifpenfably requifte
Jor the pubhjher to adhere more Jtrr&ly than he has
done to the original condition, of delivering the io
lumes only on being paid for then.
April 6, 1793-
Post-Road
TO THE GENESEE COUNTRY.
THE public are hereby informed, that the
Post-Road from Philadelphia 10 Reading,
i* conn nurd to Sunbury and Northumberland -
ihence up the Weft Branch of the Su r quehannah
as far as l.icoming; thcnce to the Painted Post
( in New-York state, near the forks of the Tioga)
thence to Bath (a town laid out on the Cohoftou
Branch of the Tioga) thence to Williatnfburg,
at the forks of Genefee River.
f >5-5»9 >7.
Letters for this new route will be Tent from
the Philadelphia Poft-Office every Wednesday
morning, at eight o'clock, with the mail fur
Reading.
A weekly mail will alio be carried from
Bethlehem to Wilfkefbarre, in the county of
Luzerne.
General PoJI-Offict, April 6, 1793.
SHIP NEWS,
Philadelphia,
THIS VOLUME CONTAINS
epimADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS a BRIDGE is to be built over
Raritan River, at the city of New-Brunf
wick, in the state of Ne w-Jerfey—:o accomplish
which, will require the krviceof many carpen
ters and masons of experience ; Notice is there
fore hereby given, that any person or persons in
clining to undertake the whole, or any part there
of, by applying to the fubferibers, on or before
the fiift dav of May next, may have an opportu
nity of comraftingfor ihefame.
JOHN BAYARD,
JACOB HARDENBURGH,
JOHN DENNIS, Sen.
Brunfwicki March 24th. cpW
VinalPs Arithmetic.
THE Second Edition of this work, with im
provements, will speedily be put to press.
The rapid sale ot the firft edition*, greatly be
3'ond the author's moll sanguine expectations,
encourages him to print a second edition. He
intends to have it printed upon much better pa
per than the former, and with a new type.
Those Booklellers who wish to take a num
ber of copies in ftieets, are rcquefted to apply to
the author for particulars.
* 1000 Copies
At a meeting of the School Committee,
February 51b, 1793.
The Committee, appointed to examine " The
Preceptor's Afliftant, or Student's Guide," being
a systematical treatise of Arithmetic, by John
Vi.NyvL l, teacher of the Mathematics Sc Writ
ing, in Borton r reported, that they have attended
that service, and are of opinion, that the work
is executed with judgment, and is as well calcu
lated for the use of schools, counting houses, and
private families, as any of the fame compass
that has hitherto been offered to the public.
Voted, That the above report be accepted,
and that Mr. Vinall befurnifhed with a copy
of it, whenever he shall desire it.
Copy of the Records. Attest,
CHARLES BULFINCH, Sec'ry.
The following character of the above work,
is given in the Review of the MaJJaekufctts Ma
gazine, fpr Jan. 1793 :
" This is a very ufcful work, and is no ill
proof of thejodgment and industry of the author.
The rules are laid down with propriety, and
the examples annexed are fuffitient tor their il
lustration. One part of the work deserves par
ticular commendation. We mean that which
the author ftilea " Mercantile Arithmetic." It
occupies a considerable portion of his book, hut
not more than its importance will juftify. We
would recommend to the young Arithmetician
to pay a particular attention to this branch.
He will find its principles well explained And
(hould he make himfelf matter of them, he will
always have reason to acknowledge his obliga
tion to the judicious and laborious author. We
cannot but congratulate the rising generation on
account of the many ufeful produttions which
have lately appeared; and in which their im
provement has been principally consulted.—
Among those productions we must place this
treatise of Arithmetic. We (hould be wanting
in justice to the author, (hould we not acknow
ledge that his work is in reality that which its
title imports—The Preceptor's Assist ant,
or Student's Guide."
Bojion, Feb. 13,
War Department,
January 28, 1793.,
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are entitled for fix
mouihs of their annual pension, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
on the sth day of March 1793, will be paid on
the said day by the Commiflioners of the Loans
within the dates refpeftively, under the usual'
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment mull be ac
companied by the following vouchers :
ill. The certificate given by the Hate, fpecify
ing thai the person poflefling the fame is in fatt
an Invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which,
as filch, he is annually intitled.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to tfye following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Justices
of the county of in the (late of and
made oath that he is the fame A. B. tb whom
the original certificate in his poffeflion was giv
en, of which the following is a copy (the cer
tificate given by the state to be recited) That
he served (regiment, corps or vessel) at the
time he was disabled, and that he now resides
in the and county of and has resided
there for the last years, previous to which
he resided in
In cafe an Invalid (hould apply for payment
by an attorney, the said attorney, besides the
certificate and oath before recited, must produce
a special letter of attorney agreeable to the sol*
lowing form :
I, A. B. of countv of (late of
do hereby constitute and appoint C. D. of
my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension tor fix months, as an Invalid
of the United States, from the 4th day of Sep
tember 1792, and ending the 4th day of March
*793-
Signed and Sealed
in the Presence of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adminillrators
must be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpeflive offices, and also of the time the
Invalid died, whose pension they may claim.
By Command of the President
of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary at War.
TICKETS
Jn t ht FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be had at SAMUEL COOPER'S Ferry.
Morse's Geography,
Revijcdy torrefied, and greatly enlarged, with many
additional Maps, well engraved.
By THOMAS and ANDREWS, Faust's Statue,
ANEW Edition of the AMERICAN
GEOGRAPHY: Being the largest
and the belt system of Geography ever pub
lifhcd : Or a complete GEOGRAPHY of the
WORLD, brought down to the piefent time.
PART I. — Of Astronomy, ai connected with,
and introdu&ory to the science of Geography :
under this head will be given an account of the
several agronomical fyftcms of the World, and
a particular description of the true one. iA"table
of the diameters, periods, See. of the several
Planets in the solar system—an account of the
Comets and fixed stars.
Of Geography—its use and progress—
figure, magnitude and motion of the Earth—
Do&rine of the Sphere—Geographical circle*—
Divisions of the Earth into zones and climates
—methods of finding the latitude and longitude
of places from celestial observations—Globes,
and their use—with a number of the moA ufe
ful and entertaining Geographical Problems and
Theorems—Maps, and their use—sources of heat
and cold—theory of the winds and tides—length
of miles in different countries—natural divisions
of the Earth—account of the Gregorian or new
stile, Sec.
America—lts discovery by Columbus—
general description of the Continent, in which is
a lengthy difcuflion of the question, When,
whence, and,by whom, was America firft peo
pled ? With a long and entertaining accpunt of
the Indians,ana the late difcoveties on the north
west coast, &cz.—North America—chrono
logical account of its discovery and settlements,
its divisions—Danish America, British
America, United St at es of America—
general description of them, hjftory
of the late war, and many other tifefof en
tertaining matters. South America—its di
visions, particular description of its seVeral pro
vinces and countries. West India Islands,
See
*** This part of-the work will be illuflrated
by maps of the countnes defenbed, from the
corre&eft copies.
PART ll.—Containing every thing essential
which is contained in the best and latest Quarto
edition of Guthrie's and other British Geogra
phies, with felettions from celebrated naviga
tors, travellers and refpe&able authors of other
nations, &c.
Of Eu rope in general—its grand divisions,
particular geographical descriptions of its seve
ral Kingdoms and Republics, &c. Of Asia—
itsfituation, boundaries, general history, parti
cular descriptions of its several divrfions, &c.
OF Africa—its general history, boundaries,
grand divisions, See. Also, new difr.overies,
Terra Incognita, Geographical Table, alphabe
tically arranged—Chronological Table of re
markable events, discoveries and inventions, lift
of men of learning and genius, with other ufeful
miscellany.
*»* This part will also be i]Juft rated. mfk
maps of the countries defer 1 bed.
X. C. A. A. A. S
THE Author is sensible that the fiift edition
of his American Geography (which makes Part
I. of the above work) was in many instances de
fettive, in others erroneous, and in (omeoffen
five. It has been his endeavour, as it was his
desire, in the present edition, to fupplv the defi
ciencies, correct the errors, and meliorate the
offenfive parts of the last. To aflift him in 'this
business, he has received many valuable commu
nications from the heads of departments in the
general government, and from gentlemen of re
fpettability in the several Hates. The descrip
tion of foreign countries (which composes Part
11. of the above work) has been carefully com
piled from the moll approved writers 011 Geo
graphy, and ufeful information introduced irom
the discoveries of the latest Navigators, Travel
lers, and refpeftable authors. Indeed, no pains
nor expense have been spared to render this' Work
the most complete, accurate, and ufeful of any
ever offered to the public.
District o/Pennsylvania, to wit.
T>£ IT REMEMBERED,
( Seal. ) the thirteenth day of March, in
\ J the seventeenth year of die Indepen
—' dence of the United States of America,
Thomas Dobsgn, of the said Diftrift, hath de
posited in this Office, the Title of a Book, the
Right whereof he claims as Proprietor, in the
words following, to wit.
" An Enquiry how Jar the Punifhmentof Death
" is necejfary in Pennsylvania. With Kotes and
14 lllujlrations. By William Bradford, Esq.
44 To which is added, an Account ojthe Gaol and
i% Penitentiary House 0] Philadelphia, and of the
44 interior Management thereof. By Caleb
44 Lownes, oj Philadelphia. If we enquire
44 into the Causes oj all human Corruptions, we
44 fhallfind that they proceed from the Impunity
44 of Crimes, and not from the Moderation of Pu
-44 nifhments. n Montefq.
I n conformity to the Ad of the Congress of
the United States, intituled, " An A& for the
Encouragement of Learning, by securing the
Copies of Maps, Chans and Books, to the Au
thors and Proprietors of such Copies, during the
Times therein mentioned.
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Diftritt of
(ps The above york is fold in CharUfton ><by
Wiltiam Price Young : Richmond, by Arc/ttfyfd
Currie : Baltimore, by Janes Rice : New-York,
ky Thomas Allen : Bojlon, by David Weft.
IMPERIAL, HYSON&SOUCHOf^G
Of the very firil quality,and latest importation
from Canton, via New-York, bv retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
N. B. A Jew Boxes oj the above HYSON forfait
In a few weeks will be published,
No. 45, Newbury-Street, Boilon,
In Two Volumesj large OQavo.
IN TWO PARTS.
The General Contents are—
TO THE PUBLIC
NEW TEAS.
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby given. That the Com
mtffioners appointed by the Board of
Trufteea of the Umverfity of North-Carolina,
will attend at the town of Hillsborough, on the
ißch, 19th and 20th days of April next, foi the
purpose of receiving proposals from such per
ions as may be disposed to undertake the Build
ings of the University,
FREDERICk'hARGETT, Chairman,
Philadelphia, January 9, 1793.
Mathew Carey
Refpe&fully informs the Citizens of the United
States, that the Maps for his intended
edition of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED,
Are now engraving—and as soon as a fufficient
number of them are fiuifhed, to fectire a re*
gular (upply during the publication, which
will probably be early next Spring, the work
will be put to press
He returns his acknowledgments to the.very
refpe&able number of Subscribers, who have
come forward thus early to patronize this ardu
ous undertaking. He a flu res then* and the pub
lic in general, that no pains or expense {hall be
spared in the execution of the work.
Terms of the Wot} :
1. IT shall be publilhed in weekly numbers,
each containing thiee (heets, or twenty-four
pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed with
new types on fine papei.
11. In the courfeof the work will be deliver
ed about thirty large maps, of the fame size as
those in the European editions, viz. mod of them
(beet maps on post paper.
63- Bejides the maps in the Britijh editions, this
work will contain nine or ten American State Maps.
111. The price of each number will be a
quarter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
No advance required.
IV. Subscribers who disapprove of the work,
on the publication of the three firft numbeis, are
to be at liberty to return them, and (hall have
their money repaid.
V. The fubferibers' names (hall be prefixed
as patrons of the undertaking.
* # * Subscriptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended publi(her; in New-York, by all
the booksellers; in New-Haven, by Mr. Beers;
in Hartford, by Mr. Patten; in Bofton,by Mess.
Thomas Sc Andrews, and by Mr. Wert ; in Bal
timore, by Mr. Rice; in Richmond, by Mr.
J . Carey ; in Charleston, by Mr. W. P. Young,
and by sundry other persons throughout the
United States. (lawtf)
An Ordinance for securing the punOuai
Payment of the Monies due on the
Subscriptions to the Society for esta
blishing Ufeful Manufactures.
WHEREAS doubts have heretofore arisen
with regard to the power of the Society
to annex any penalties to the non-payment of the
instalments, agreeably to the terms of the sub
scriptions. And whereas the Legislature at their
la ft sessions, pa (Ted a supplement
law of incorporation, rcniwifl'g the laid doubts,
9nd fully authorizing the Directors to pals any
ordinance they mav think proper, to compel the
* fa id liibfcri ptions.
Sec. 1. Be it ordained, therefore, by the Governor
and Directors oj the Society for ejlabiijhivg Ufeful
ManuJaSures % Thzt\{any fubferiber or hisafhgns,
(hall neglect to pay the second payment of his,
her, or their refpe&ive fubferiptions, together
with the lawful interest arising thereon, either to
the ea(hier of the United States Bank. Office of
Discount and Deposit, at New-York, the cashier
of the Bank of New-York, the ca(hier of the
Bank of the United States, in Philadelphia, of
John Bayard, Esq. in the city of New-Brunf
wick, in the state of New-Jertcy, on or belore
the thirteenth day of April next : That then and
in that cafe, all and every (hare or (hares of such
person or persons so negle&ing to make such pay
ments as aforefaid, and the monies by the.n pre
viously paid, (hall be forfeited,and forevef there
after vested in the said Directors, and their fuc
ceflors, for the common benefit of the said So
ciety.
Sec. 2. And be it further ordained by the authority
aforejfiid, That if any subscriber, or his afiigoi,
(hall neglett to pay the third payment of his, her
or their refpeftive subscriptions, together with
the lawful interest arising thereon, on or before
the thirteenth day of May next. That then and
in that cafe all and every (hare or (hares of such
person or persons so neglcdling to make such
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by them
previously paid, (hall be forfeited, and forever
thereafter vested in the said Directors, and their
facceflors, for the common benefit of the said
$ociety.
Sec. 3. And be itfurther ordained by the authority
afore/aid, That if any subscriber, or his afligns,
Ihall neglect to pay the fourth payment of his,
her, or theirrefpe&ive fubfcriptions,on or before
the thirteennth day of July next, that then and in
that cafe, all and every fliare or (hares of such
person or persons, so neglefiing (o make such
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by them
previously paid, (hall be forfeited, and forever
thereafter veiled in the said Direftou, and their
successors, for the common benefit of the said
Society- NICHOLAS LOW, Governor.
Faffed at New-Ark, soth February, 1793.
(Counterfignedj ELISHA BOUDINOT,
Secretary pro tempore.
BE IT KNOWN, that the proportion of spe
cie which may be paid on the refpedlive pay
ments of every original fiiare, by such Stock
holders as prefer paying a moiety of said lhares
in specie, in lieu of deferred debt, is as follows :
** ■ udh. Cts.
On the 13th of April, 1793, with in
terest from 13th July, 1792,
On the 13th of May, 1793, with in
terest from 13th January, 1793, y 86
O* the 13th ps July, 1793, 8 09
stockholders in the laid Society are hereby
notified, that I, the fubfcribcr, am duly autho
rized to make the requisite indorsements upon
the certificates of Hiarcs which they may respec
tively hold, and that books of transfer are open
ed at my office, in Fr6nt-ftreet, New-York.
February ji, j793.
A further Caution.
ALL persons are hereby cautioned Iron r«ei».
ing of Thomas Mackit &. Co. or aay other
petfop, four Notes of Hand, given by the late
James Gardner, of Wilmington, North.Cai.ti...
to Samuel Jafkfon, of Philadelphia,all bearin»d«
the 19th July, 1785, amounting in the wjiofem
£. 2,600 13 0 North-Cavotina currency* (fee
grcatelt pyri of which said Notes-have
to said Thomas Maikic &L Co. in proof of. vratcb
the fublcriberi have the depofitien of Mr. \afkr
Mauduit Jacifin, and other documenta which will
fully and clearly illustrate the matter.
PRINTED AND SOLDBY
MATHEW CAREY,
No. 1,18, Mar kit Strat-
l. A MERICATNM,U3feD\I»f«om incorpmcnw.
merit in January 1787, to June 1792, in
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound and lettered,
seventeen dollars and three filths.
This work, whifh was conduced onanim
! tains best pieces publifhrd
Tor and against tbe proceedings-os goveijHaeiiU
will be found to contain at leafl as great a variety
of political, agricultural,and miftellaneous essays,
as any ever publiftied in America. Perhaps in no
one work are so many valuable documents refprft.
ing the hiftory.of this countr.y, collefied together.
His Excellency the President of the United States,
has declared of it, that a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deserving of public encouragement."
a. Smith's Letters to Married Women, on. NurC*
ing and the management of Children.
" We recommend.these letters to the perufil of
those to whom they are particularly acfcdreffed."—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, Price*,bound,
62 cents.
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic—7,5 ccnts.
4. Beauties of Fielding—so cents.
5. Beauties of Blair-—SO ccnts.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss
More'sEffays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs. Cha
pone on command of Temper, More's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6jf6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Piice adol
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, L. l.d. profeltor of moral philosophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Qt.. this, book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay: "We
have seen nothing on these fubjc&s more plain,
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful." —-
N. B. It is introduced into the Univerfityin Phi
ladelphia.
9. Beauties of Poetry. Price four-filths of «
dollar.
7 63
NICHOLAS LOW.
Jawti3M,
T fh.n .ujhomt
Company of.hr Bank of the SuT M
receive annume., or Imereft ln f,„. ? •'•
public debt of the Vnut ,'N
L r , J " me t ® t,n,e i *
on the ta.d Prcfideot, Drefltor.
to the amount of the idouici bv ibcm ,„
which drah, (hall be p, 1()
and free of expenee—Or, 'Wiioo
7J 1 DirrSora and Compaa. if,,
quelled, will rem,t the monie. by the, «'
to any part of Earopfi fr , . *
out deduction, in Bill* ot E*ch.£, **..
rent v allK d „ the r,ft of the S
the fame thai) b« remitted.
By the President anal Dl'e&ori
-21 IOHN KEAN.' C.fti..
TO BE iOLD,
A noted coveringHorfe
OF THE HUNTING H°Et) '
HE was .mpor.ed trom England ,n
r » fevtniecn hundred and eighty.!,*
is now ten years old ; he ,s a bright bjy,
blaze,fifteen handsoneinch hi»h,ts wellform'd
has a great deal of bone and ttrcnach, ,„d k;'
aitioii equal to any horse. His colls aie well
approved of in the different parts of the Sn,
where he has flood, of which any person inclined
te purchase can intorm themselves Enoim,
of the Printer. "
February 18,1793. ft
It is therefore expefied thai this notice, with
the one advertised in this paper in May and Junr,
1791, will be a fufficient caution to the public '
THOMAS WRIGHT, )
ROBERT SCOTT, ( Execto-,.
MAR. R. WILLKINGS, )
Wilmington, (N. C.) Aug. i, 1792. (tamjm)
BOOK S,
10. Blair's Sermons.
i i. Necker'sTteatifeon the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
12. Examination of the Obfcrvations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 Bths of a dollar.
13. The Constitutions of the several United States,
with the Federal Constitution, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Pricethree-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jest Book. Price three-fifths of
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul. Price half a dollar.
17. The Do way Translation of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto—Price, elegantly bound and letter
ed, 50/2--- plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vadc Mdcum—Pfiee
quarter dollar.
19. Think well on*f. Price a quarter dollar*
«o. Christian Econorrty. Price a fifth of a dollar
-21. Hiftofy of Charles Grandifon, abridged-
Price a sixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third
of a dollar.
23. Select Poems, chiefly American— Pricea
sixth of a dollar. (
Said Carey has for sale, a large affortmcntet
Books, European as well as American editions,
which he will dispose of on the moftreafonabe
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon beingfuppl ,c in
the most fatisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
to such as purchase quantities for public libraries
or to fell again.
Price two dollar*.