cf)U*.y.j
B * Baa3lg^^ tM ' aa,aaßa^ggaCaiSa: 1,1 1 ' il|tr ' 111 '11 '■* '*' r ' r t V.it*j-,fr n' it - ' •-.
A PAPUt, PU.USH.D OH ,y W ,„ „^ r „„ ~
[No. 107 of Vol. IV.]
TO THE PUBI.TC.
#3" The Editor propfes to continue the
publication oj the Gazette of the United
State s, Jor dijlant circulation, after the JijJl of
December next, on the follvvoivg viz.
Jt Jho-U be publijhed on Wednesdays and
Saturdays, an paper of the Medium fize*—wkich
is larger than the prefect.
The Price, Thiee Dollars, per annum, rxclufivc
of poftagc.
Subfcnptiom to be received by the rtjpeffive Pcfl-
Majlcrs throughout the Union, or fuck otker per Jo as
u> may fee propet to coiteH then.
The paper Si to be Jorutatiid by pojl twice a ueei.
No packets tj contain less than six papers—and no
fubferiptions to be received for a Ufs term then fix
months.—Payments to be conjantly fix months in
advance.—Twenty per cent, diiuclibn from the price
cf the Gazette, toil Ihe allowed to thoje who col
lect and forward the fvifcriptijn money, Jree.of tx.
penje, in J all oj all charges Jer.thtu trouble intht
hitfivejs.
Thf publication will contain u vfual, a variety oj
anginal ejjays—foreign and domfiic intelligence,
and a fumimry of the proceedings of the LegjLitui?
oj the Union, Be. (3c. Attention will be paid
to dispatching the papers with pun&uality, and Sub
scribers nay depend on receiving them as regularly,
as the pojlt arrive.
June 8.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
THOUGHTS ON THE
State of American Indians.
(Continued from No. 104, of '.his Gazette.)
No. IX.
ANOTHER principle which contributes
to form the baits of civil society, and
•which dHfcjngnifHes social from savage man*
ners, is the eftabiifhment and management of
private property. In the earlj of fp.
are fti'anfcers to rhofe diftmftions
of property which in more pojifhed pe
riods. Land is more connected with the na
tion than with individuals—the territory
which belongs to the tribe, is cultivated for
their use, and each receives what is fufficient
for his necessities.* As their numbers jn
creafe, as their wants multiply, and society
advances, the idea of appropriation is fqrm
fcd. They become delirous of a better provi
lion than the proniifcuous industry of many
copartners affords, and by degrees withdraw
their regard from the community, and diredl
their views more to their o\v;i inferel^.
At length when perfbnal ciiftinCtioo arises
from an accumulation of the iirnple produc
tions of nature, or the acquisitions of industry,
they begin to claim the property of the foil,
as well as the fruits which it yields. The oc
cupation of land enfuet, and the agricultural
(late place—this fo.rmi a new asra in the
progress of manners, and corftitutes the true
foundation of civil society. From this source
all improvements in the various departments
of social life directly or indirectly flow. Ik
gradually changes the habits and manners of
a people, nnd intipduces means' of eminence
and refpe&ability unknown in the savage
state—it confirms and improves the idea of
frigate property—it necefTirikattaches thenj
to a particular spot—leads to a division of
lands, to industry in cultivating and enriching
them— to.tl.te conftruflum of proper habita
tions for the arcoipmndajtion of their families,
and tofje arts subservient tq purposes.
Agriculture also birth to ar(s, to com
merce and to laws—prevents famine—acce
lerates population—creates ma jf- new attach
ments —'pens new fourecs of enjoyment, and
strengthen* the bauds which connect qnd fnpr
the diverged inteiefts ofiiifiety. Tl*
fti-plus produce of the farmer creates a fund
for the maintainanceof artificers, whole joint
(kill and industry are neceflarv to give perfec
tion and extent to their prndu-ttions. These
agpiq return ilie farnier ijij ravy ials
converted into some more agreeab'e and ufe
ful form. As arts multiply, the practice of
exchanging arte commodity for another takes
innumerable ties are formed whicfi
fentent the interest a»Fefyogs ps, men-*
enlorci the obligations j-o mutual
and afliftance. and sweeten the charms of so
cial intcrcourle.
A»ricultu-e alio creates si necelTity for new
laws—the partition of lands—tl»e tenure of
property—the forms of contrasts—the regn.
Jation of fuccedjon of tranfinjflion and dona
tion all req iir* known and ell»blithed rules.
The use and value of irietajs, and efpeciafly
that species which serves 'at tbe standard of
j* Tf&yfM HvA *$ r—udar ie.Hct GtK
rLj' M"> r
,*"**■ *»• P- 1 »"■ 157. —CtmmtaUritj of Per*,
tfi 5. t. ». 3.
?,♦» , Mi
toe exchangeable v;< V.* other cot>yr<>-J>
tiei, inuft be particularly fpecified by the kin's
of rl>e society. The penally ineurrer! by the
infraction of should be delineated, and
an snthoritj appointed to fee it duly executed.
Agriculture further facilitate', .the means
of providing iubfiftence—encourages mar
riage, by the profpeft of an eafv and fee Ore
fopport—leffens tin- danger of famine, and
multiplies the number m:d augmerttS thi hap
pineft of the human species.
11 gives rifp to various employments which
kindle thefparlcs of emulation, rouse the in
tent powers of genius, exrite invention, and
contribute to enlarge the bounds and multiply
the objects of human knowledge. Thus arts,
fe'ences, laws and government, all ultiniate'y
flow from the eftablifhmenr~of private pro
perty and. the cultivation of the foil.
Thi- reprefeptation is perfectly coincident
with the experience of pad ages. Tie an
cient history of Greece, of China, of Ger
many, of Pern, ami of forne other countries,
informs us vfaat land it* the infancy of those
nations was common,and nfcribes thexlivifion
of it to their firft So. hiphlv Hid
'' thofS mttva* eftinw-e Xhe effafeliffcrncnf of
agriculture, that the most of them paid reli
gious homage to those fovcreigns and legiila
tors who had been the inftrnmerts of intro
ducing them. To facilitate the reception
and improvement of this art, they were care
ful to furniih the means by which it might be
easily and fuccefsfully cultivated. For this
purpoie, they rendered it unlawful to destroy
those animals winch are n r ually employed in
the cultivation of the earth. Thus the laws
of Egypt, oflntlisi, and in late times of fom*
of the French idands in America, prohibited
the killing of oxen, the animajs generally em
ployed in agricnlture, on pe(la|tv ofde-ath,—
On the fame principle it is highly probable
that other laws were made to acre It rate the
improvement of agricuUure. '
If, as has been attempted to be (hewn, agri
culture lies at the foundation of civil society,
and isthefourcef oir. wbich allfocial improve
ments are derived— another important ilep
to betaken in bringing the savages to the
knowledge and enjovment of social lift is to
give them the idea ofpeTfbnal appropriation-—
a refidfinceaud thg cuUivarioa.of th« (a 1#
this will be more easy :hpn may be at firft. ap
prehended—they are ar present in a state bor
dering upon it.—Each nation has a certain ter
ritory which it claim-: as its own—the limits >
of which are well known, and the encroach- :
ments on lyhich ,t>y other tribes is: a fruitful,
source of among; them. The transi
tion is easy from the idea of national to that
of individual appropriation.
The Germans and Peruvians exhibit t(ie
progress of this change in the habits of a na
tion.
This progress also jriay be more readily ef
fected among the Ii dians than in nations left
wholly to the impulse of their owp genius.
The inftruinents of agriculture—the use of
domeftid animals and the use of metals which
greatly facilitate the prog re fs of this ast may
be them. Extraordinary encou
ragement may be giyenr then?. to excite
to industry and a perpetual afforded
by the profpieft of exchanging the produce
of their labour for articles which they Jhay
deem more desirable.
+. The Egyptians to Of yris—the Greeks toCer/s—
the Romans to Saturn—the Chinee Jo Yao -and the
Peruvians to Manco Capac. Coquet, vol. i. p. 34.
For the GAZETTE oj the ukITtDStATES.
Tr i ...
HE incendiaries whq are every where
blowing the sparks of dilfentinn into a
flame,have larely outraged decency & the ren
fimentj of our nation, and indeed of the civil
ized world lb far as to insult the President of
the United States. The style of animadver
sion on.his conduct and (>ai been as
iufolent as it is insidious ; nothing can Ihew
more manifeflly the profligacy of their prin
ciples and t eir violent fjiirits It shews that
the party who hate the confutation and the
fypporters of public order .are held by no ties
of or duty, and mean /O'keep with
in no bounds which the moderation of other
men has fuppoled even the itioft viojent would
not step over. Men who have any principle
of virtue will honor it in others. Yet the
prctencc is that the honor done to one man is
a diftipiSion inconfjftent with the temper of a
government. 'This is an impu
dent libel on repubi'carifin wjijcji in reality
rends to give erergy to the human chara&er ;
which calls into aflion tb* most fublimfc vir
tue, as well as the fcntiment -which is to
qheriih and reward it.' Does Syracuse stand
diflipnored in hiflory for.btr gratitude to her
deliverer the virtuous Don ? Was Corinth
enslaved by T moleon, or was the confidence
of Thebes in her Walbington condemned by
her lie: oes and pbilofophers ? "thole cities are
in tbe dud ; but the farce of these three great
men wilj never die.
Tijefi fctibbler« frel«veJlyrj in,m?»,alj a<
well •> pofitics, tbtj propose to degrade 1 x-
I liinwni j_- -
ZTZCcTc?/ <?c
Saturday, June 8, i 75^5.
<It //</
/
rf't^
425
uc£ beta.<ife while twey envy, they pr*
.tend to-titar.Jt.
This fottiJh doctrine is the iheta'phyfics of
bafcnefs—it puts out rhe light of reason *nd
quenches the of (entlraeiit in the hcirt.
The admiiatJrm,of an hero of whom out coun
try is proud, the gratitude we fee] for him
who saved it, are pretended to be dangeious.
The people are impudently told to Another
their best and long accuftoiried feelings and to
yield tn future to the mean eft and most cow
ardly of prejudices—their envy and fear
of merit, because it is pre eminent. Thus
it is that ouj fciibblers raiftake the fenti
merit/ of the American people by supposing
them in their addreffes'-already degraded to
their own leyel. They tell us that Kings are
movers, tiirone-s and sceptres are glittering
bubbles. They corrupt virtue but can nei
ther diftiugufh nor reward it. It happens
however tnat the man famed for his ijluftri-
W r ervicesand personal p.ierit, that afkM no
recompense yet enjoys the higher, is treated
rudely, as- if the gratitude <if a free people
was .an fife ring to ambition or was extorted
ty" usurpation and violence. Birth and power
C9nnpt conifer triMi difrinltio#--—!nor acc >• 1
in* to those writers, can virtue and merit.
1 here are men whom the virtue ps others
d.lhonors— -who find reproach in good exam
ple—who ficlren in. its fp lend or like tjhe tempt
er when he fir ft came from darkneft into the
lurMhine ; like him they deceive io order to
debate ; like hini they give iniidious counfe]
to trample on the primary laws of our social
order—and like him they incite an happy race
of men to shake off their most amiable duties
as fetters, to renounce then best rights in fo
ciery as bribes for obeying it, and to barter a
second paradise for an apple. CIV IS.
Foreign Intelligence.
(Ger.) March 30.
ON the firft intelligence of the
approach oft he Pruflian troops,
the French marched to meet them
at the distance of half a league from
Mto* -pfVce.- -0e n e r»l» ii ft ill e aT)d
Wiih'pfen had their headquarters
at Btetzenheim ; Geo. Neuwinger
had his at Brngen, and those of Gen.
HoWgard were at this place. For
the two last days he had eltablifhed
himfelf at BeddefHeim.
The left wing of the Proffian ar
my firft attacked ihe entrenchmelits
of.Wnldalgefft.eim, from which the
f retich were driveh, after making
a very obftihate refinance. The
Prutliaii cavalry pursued the fugi
tives beyond Bingen, and cut to
pieces a great number of them with
their sabres.
During this time another body of
Pruflian troops attached the batte
ries on the mount of' St. Roch,w hich
were also carried; the French left
there a great many tilled & wound
erf ivith all their artillery, The
vii Tors took fbirie hundreds of prl
fonerS, among whom is the famous
General Newinger.
Whilst this was pafling on theleft
win jj; of the Prussians, the right ad
tanced again ft fhis place, and met
with great refinance by the way,
bnt the French were at length oblig
ed to fall back, and to save them
fel*es by flying during the night of
the 28th. The hnflars of Eben j>ur
fued them through this town, as far
as Alzey, where they cut to pieces
a part of them, and took a great
number prifohers.
As the Pruflians have blocked up
on one fide all the paflages to Mentz,
and are on thfe other in pursuit of
the enemy, the pofuion ofthe latrer
i? extremely critical. This d:w a
continual cannonade has been heard
foN»i;rcls Mentz ; about one thou
sand three hundred French pril'on
ers have been already couduifted to
Biugen.
FRANCKFORT, April i.
General Nenwinger who has been
taken prisoner by the Prussians, was
brought hither this day with foine
more Frenchmen, and several pieces
cf artillery. The General has five
wounds, none of which, however,
art dangerous.
J = —~ \ >
[Whole No. 429.]
7Li* d&v eh« f* rri.'an of Caitcl
made a fortle, but were repuii'eil
withiofi.
MANHEIM, March s)-t.
No n> aiis 3i e .;urivt*(j h<*re except
the port from Fi ankfort. This is
the refulr of Hie invasion of the
Piuffian* on rbat fide, and (he Aul
irianson this fide of ihe Rhine.—
The former have this day taken
possession ef Worms ; the latter ga
ther in our neighbourhood, and are
on the poiijc of passing the Rhine.
The French deem it in vain to make
any ftaod at all . again ft the formi
dable forces ready to pour in upon
them from all quarters. They have
evacuated the whole diftriOt of
Worms from that city hither. Pre
vious to their retreat, they set fire
so their magazines at Neuhaufen &
Fr:tiikemb<>l. Ac Worms they de
stroyed their magazines, and threw
several pieces of cannon into the
Rhine.
Tljqs the French hayelofl n!J their
German conquests except Memz,
which, on account of the vkxakneis
of its garrison, will soon be forced
to surrender.
This evening intelligence has-been
received here fhat General VV uri»-
fer crofled the Rhine at Ketfcli, w i,h
70©o men, and is already at Spires.
The Krfciich have vanished eve.rv
where, and the PrulTinn patroje.t
make incursions as far as 00-"£r-
Iheim. **
APRI t. 2.
1 he Fruflian head quartets kre at
GutiterfDlum.
A brilk engagement rook place in
that quartcr a few days
the French hnd a grest number of
men killed, and between 8 and 1200
made prifpners.
His Prfiffian Mnjcfly is expected
to reach W-orms to morrow.
Genera] Nftiwinger is conveyed
to Magdebourg; on his wiy he was
lnfulted by the populace, on accoit'in
of the fevei e colitributions which he
had exaifted.
BRUSSELS, April 4.
This morning the French ft&e
prisoners, sent hither by the Printe
of Saxe CoboUig, ate expected to
arrive, and wii] immediately confi
nue their route co the citadel of
Antwerp.
The French army which was to
have made ihe conquett of Holland,
(till continues in virtue of its Capi»
tulation with the Austrian generals
to file off thtough Dendei nionde,
with all their baggflge&ainmuniiion.
HAGUE, April 6.
On Wednesday ihe 3d inft. the
states general received from the he
reditary Prince of Orange, comman
dant general of the troops of jhe
republic on the frontier, the jfollow
ing litter :
" High and mighty Lords,
" 1 ba v e the honor to inform your
Mightinesses, that this night I re
ceived a courier from the prince of
Saxe Cobourg, bearing two letters
from Gen. Dumomier, addrefled to
the refpei'Hve commandants of Bre
da and Gert ruy den berg, charging
them to surrender those fortreflcs
on the tertus of an honorable capi
tulation. 1 immediately caused the
letters to be delivered to the said
commandants, and made such use
of them in fopport of the negncia-
Uons commenced, that I hnve no
doubt of being Toon in poflcffion of
both these places.
" I have the honour to congratu
late your high MigHtinefles on this
fucceis, f 0 decisive for the lifety of
the republic, not doubting but jour
high cnightiuedes will Vearn with
l.itisfatfl.ion, that the territory of
the republic will very Toon be t ear
*C*«v<~ sof«he « rn>"~y For il>»« we are in a
great mea{ure indebted 10 i>»e wife
<l>re£tioi*s and
of Field Mar ilia I tlie F»iuce of Co
bourg.
•• X* faint .•« flie enemy's troops
111 311 bav4 «rvactJatfi(! iireja & Ger
uii.ietibu.gj, i [hall make the necel
f-4iy liifjjoliiions lortheir teiiigcoji
dtiftrd without obitncle to Lille."
LISLE, April 5
Gen. Duinourier having put tin
eer arrclt ihe four conitn tllioncrs
sent by tlie Convention to feizehim
and bring him to the bar, addreded
iiis amj in ihe following terms :
" Companions, four com million
eis, accompanied by ihe uiiiiiiler at
w-.r, from the national convention,
aic come to arrest me, and conduct
me to the bar. i remember what
you have proinifed, that you will
not fuffer to be carfied away your
father, who has several times saved
his country, who has led you on in
ttie tond to victory, and who atJaft
bas llill made ait honorable retreat
at your head ; I have put them in
a place of fafety to serve as holtages.
Jt is lime for our army to rfifchaige
its vow, to puige France pfaffaffitis
and difturber9, and to rettoi e to our
onhappy country, the repose which
(lie has loft by the ci imes of her re
prefenta.ives. It is time 10 regain
a conftituiion to which we swore
three years l'ucceffively, which gave
tis liberty, and which alonecan pie
ferve us from the licentioufaefs and
anarchy in wh.ch we are plunged.
1 declare to you companions, that I
will set you the example of living
aid dying free. We cannot be free
bur with good laws, if otherwile,
we (hall be the slaves of crimes.
" General in chief of the French
" DL'MOURIER."
army,
Near St. Amend, April i, I 793,
1 j o'clock at night.
General Mazinflcy, sent by Du
mourier, entered the day before
yesterday into this town, accompa
nied by an hundred h tiffins of his
legion ; he was the bearer of a let
ter, that he sent to M. Duval, com
mandant of the place, to demand
the entry of 6000 men of the north
ern army, which was refufed. Ma-
Zinfky has been arretted, and his
followers dil'urnied.
PARIS, Apt il 6.
The capital is still quiet ; the
public opinion is ftiongly enough
declared againit seditious and trai
terous persons to give ns room to
believe, that neither the one nor
the other will fee their projecis fuc-
Ceed. The reaPollings about Gen.
Dumouritr Itill vary ; some fay that
he has emigrated, others are posi
tive that he is yet at the head of his
army ; no citizen has hitherto in
curred the penalty of death, in ap
proving the condutft and principles
of this General, worthy imitator of
Monk.
Ci:izens Egalite, father and son,
are erased from the lift of the foci
e:y of J acobi ns.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Apbil 2.
The cooimilfioners of (he Conven
tion at .Rochelle, announced, that
ihe people of Nantes had made a
fuccefsful sally again ft the revolters
— I'were killed upon the (pot,
And as litany made prisoners.
The popular fociery of Toulon
denounced Gen. Paoli as a support
er of despotism, who, in concert
with the adininillrators us the de
partment, had inflitfted every kind
of hai dlhip upon the patriots, at the
fame time favoring tlie emigrants
and the refia<ftory priests.—They
demanded that his head lliould fall
under the avenging sword of the
law.
" When the inhabitants of Cor
ika combated for their liberty,"
(aid Lafource, " General Paoli,who
was at their head, appeared to fup
pott their cause, thar he might ob
tain a rhrone which he had long re
garded as his own ; his objeift was
10 he declared king — 1 demand his
difmiiiion."
The convention decreed, that the
Procurer General Syndic of the de
partment of Corsica, and General
Paoli, should be ordered to the bar,
(o give an account of their condui't.
The PitfiJcnt announced, that
General Miranda Itad written to hi-n
that .he waited ihe order ottbecon
vent ion to appear at their bar.
The aflembly charged the war
committee to projiofe io hi in a Se
ries of <j'iellious, and decreed that
he Ihould be admitted 10-11101 row.
Apkh 3.
The comniiHioiiers wrote from
Lifl:, that they had set off for the
camp of Maulde, to arrest Duoiou
ri«r ; and thai Bournonville bad ta
ken, on hisroo[e,the necetlary mea
sures to make a vigorous lefiltance
to the enemy
A ru i l y.
A letter was read From ihe com-'
ni/iioneis in ihe department of
Lilts. /Ail ihe potts on l lie banks ot
ihe Villsine, occupied by i lie fedi
tious, had been taken, and die p*i
fage re-eftabliflied. Genera] Ber
ruyre had taken the nfiott vigorous
ineafurcs 10 reduce the seditious
conimtines to order, and had fuc
ceeded.
Than riot had made the motion
that all the ftfperior cflic«rs taken
prifones thoulj be brought to Pa. is,
that they miibt answer with their
heads for the lives of the co.mmifli
oners, and df the minitter at war,
so iufaniouiy put into the hands of
the enemy by Duinourier. This
motion had been decreed, but on
the motion of Mallarme, ir was a
gi eed to suspend the execution ui>-
lil rhe coiftniiTTPt of national fafety
Ihou'td m:.ke their report
A letter was read from Gen. Bi
ron, flaring, that though tire (now
was a foot oeep on the ground, the
enemy had attacked the ramp of
Braons on the aSt&of March. They
were vigorously repulsed, and rheir
loss mu(t have been 'considerable,
if he might judge from rhe qnanriry
of bipod, of bats, and of fuzils left
on the field.
In the evening fitting the plan of
a decree *tas read, for railing an ar
in'y of 20,000 men for the defence of
Paris, one part of which ftaced.that
no ci-devant nobleman flioohl be
admitted to any command in this
.ai uvy.. . Danton prepofed,
the aefence of all the great cities
there -Ihnuld he a guard, to be paid
by the Republic : that the < prlc#i;of
bread {hould bealways tion
to workmen's wages, and that in
time of fcarciiy the excess (hould be
paid by a tax on persons of larger:
fortuues.
Ad'Rl L 7.
Marat moved, tfyat the >ires and
children of the emigrants ibonld be
piit into,fafe custody, and aufwer
with their lives for the lives of Bonr
nonville and the four cominiilioners.
He added, that as there werie no
proofs against Philip Egalite and
billery, their eharadier of depujies
(liould be refpetfted, & they requeued
to put themselves in a state of
to convince the people of their in-
nocence
Decreed, on the motion of Fon
frede, iliac all the members of the
Bourbon family, without: (lilli*Mfci
on, be kept as hostages for the fafe-
ty of Bournoiivilie and the commiC
(loners, and ordered that the com
million of public fafety point out tile
pi <ce where these hotlages fliall be
kept, except , the .priioneis in ;he
1 einple, who are not to be removed
from Paris.
Laclos, Bonnccarre, and Gouay
Darcy, were ordered to be ..'taken
into custody en acconm of thtfir con
nection with th* Orleans .family.
Silvery is a prifonir at large'.
The members of the new commit
tee of public fafety were declared
to be Barrere, Delmas, Br«aid,Cam
bun, Jean de Brie, Dknton, Guitton,
Morveau, Treilbard.Lici oix of £ure
and Loire.
Philip Egalite sent a letter, desir
ing lo know, if it was oiejint to. in
clude him n FepVefemaffve
people, in the decree aga(*ift ; tie
Bourbons : " Yes, yes," was
ed from Aery part of the hail, t
The National Convention, on the
fiift accounts of Dumomier's con
duct, proposed the following ad
dress to the Belgic Army :
" Dnmouiier lias betrayed his
country —that conspirator fjr whom
your valour has heretofore obtained
triumphs, the g'ory of which he at
tributed to himfelf, now only fecks
426
to wake yon fuffer defeats ol which
be \Vill lei (he ihame light on you.
He attempts to tuin agamll liberty
the arms that you took up only
again)! lyraur.y. W hat, you,h rench
men, to threaten yourcountry ! on,
to march againlt your friends, your
brothers, your wives, and your chil
dren 1 No—you are not capable ot
that most atrocious of crimes ; the
champions of liberty cannot all at
once have become the wretched fa
teliites of an ambitious villain. Is
it not at the voice of your country
in danger, that you marched and
conquered? Is it not she thar Hill
demands your strength and your
arots ? her sacred voice shall vibrate
to the bottom of your hearts ; yon
will recollect your triumphs, and
burn to gather frefh laurels. So
judge of you the repielentatives of
the nation, whole confidence and
elteem you possess. I hey know
you better than the perfidious chiel
who deceives you, in order to de
base and dell toy you. His audaci
ous hand has violated the sovereign
ty of the people, in seizing thole its
repi elentatives whom the National
Convention had sent to you. His
crime is known ; he wants to gK'e
us a King ; his name is devoted to
infamy—his head to the fcaffold ;
avenge your glory and your coun
try ; give up the traitor ; a civic
crown is t he reward that awaits yon.
French f.ildiers, if there could be
among you men who did not re
main faithful by the hnrrorof trea
son, let them at least learn to be
faithful by the fear of punishment.
You are only the advanced guard of
the nation ; flie is whole and entire
behind you, re:idy to protect with
her power tliofe who know how to
serve her, and to crush with her
thunder those who dare to be rebel
lious.
?<*
" The traitor Dumonrier has ca
lumniated Paris to enrngeyou agunll
that city which has been the ci a< 1 ie,
and ought to be the fnpport of free
dom. Paris is tranquil, and watches,
for the fecnrity of the representa
tives of the people, refpeOts the
laws, is ready to inarch her repub
lican bauds. He has reprefenred
the National Convention as divided
into two factions ; he has taken ad
vantage of fotne debates, which the
ardent love of liberty, always jea
lous, especially in times of revolu
tion, natura'ly excites among men
charged with the interests of a great
people. Republican foldiei s—it is
an act of petfidy on his pait, to
make you the blind instruments
both of the annihilation of the Con
vention, and of the re eftablifliinent
of Royalty : The National Conven
tion is one as well as the Nation ; ir
will maintain the intlivifibility of
the Republic ; it rallies round the
standard of liberty, and will carry
it, if need be, into your ranks ; it
ufi an into oily takes an oath to die
with you. or to exterminate conspi
rators, tyrants and their followers."
April o.
The committee of public fafety
reported, that the members of the
Bourbon family ftould be detained
as hostages at Varennes till the close
of the civil war, which now agitated
fevera! of the ■ departments. After
some difcuiiion, Marseilles was a
dopted as the place of their impri
fonmeui..
It was announced that feriouscom
motions Hill fublifted at Nantz, and
that on the left bank of the Loire
the iiifurgeiits were very formida
ble. At Machecourt, they had toi
leted pirovifions, ammunition, and
a formidable train of artillery.—
General Labourdonna>e waited for
a reinforcement to attack them.
A letter from ihe comtnilTioners
at Valenciennes, dated ihe 7th in
itant, dated, that the whole of the
northern army had defer ted tie
ltandard of Dumourier, and liad
ranged tbemfelves under that- of Ihe
Republic at the camp near Valenci
ennes, at Lisle. Douay, &:c. 1 hole
«hocontinued with Dumourier con
fitted of the greaser part of the hus
sars of Berchiny, and the' dragoons
of the ?d regiment.
A dispatch from Gen. Dam pierre
announced, that he had lent a trum
pet to General the Prime of axe
Cobourg, to allure him that the kind
April io.
of trnce now exifling, w ou]«} no! be
vii/taicJ l«y him wituoui piffim4
noiice. He had requested on the
part of tbe Aaftriancoirittandertlie
fame precaution.
The coa»"i>il3iorter* Qationcd k
Valenciennes, i» a leirer dated tUe
Bth in it. apprjfed the Contention
that they had arretted the
officer employed by Dor.iourier for
their appreheiiGun.— lh«* bad alio
in their hamli one of Dumooriei'i
spies. Thty i hat iHeAatti »-
an generals directed thfir
wards Lille and
tbe latter of which fiom
whence they wroie, were
counter te\olutioniftt. .
A letter fioui the department of
Bouches-du Rhone ; the content}
of wliictt could t:ot be t:iadc pnblit,
was referred to the committee of
public fnfety.
L O N D O i*i, April 15.
By yelterday's higi] we Je;ji;{. that
11 fail of tnglifh ir.ei chaniuitnhave
been captured in the Mediterranean ;
rhey were principally catried n»t\>
Marseilles.
The town anfl ciiade) nf Conde,
in French Huittault, is eniii-ely fur
ronnded by the Anllrian troops.
Cuftine'* army itiil continues to
be hard preHed by the Fioili.Mis.—
Advices received from Offend this
morning (late, that he is reifeatu'ig
as fall as poiiible into France wia»
his army.
From rhefe advices, ht>we*er, ft
vtouid appear, that the imelligence
brought by the lall mail, ol Vicutr
having fui rendered, was unfound
ed. Such an event, huiiocr, may
be fooit looked for.
M. fcgaiite, prior to the Deciee
for fending the Men.beis u! the
Bourbon family to Maife.'lles, w. s
Confined for security in the piifuu
la Conciei gei ie.
The underwj iters at Lloyd's Cof
fee House v.ere all ntatie exceeding
cheeiful on Satuiday lalt, by the
news being received oft he arrival of
the Necker, and three othei French
East- F;idiameu in the ports ofFi aticc,
which had been inltired in i hiscouit
try, lo the amount of 350,0001. ilei
ling.
The government of ihe Nether
lands, it is said, will undergo a to
tal renovation in which the various
suggestions of the patriots will be
candidly cauvatled, and as far an
may be confident with due fuboidi
nation, adopted.
Aprh. 17-
It was yef!erd;iy reported, on
what authority we have not
that the 3 generals that wter* under
arrcit at Haris, had been condemn*
eil by the revolutionary- tribunal,
and executed. These generals W£re
Miranda, Wimpfeo, aod Klazien
Iky.
By a veflel j ift arrived from Of
rend, we learn that the A uliriaii
troops were witliin a few hours
march of Dunkirk when fiie failed,
and that it was reported the .French
troops had j>revioufly xjfce
place—it w as of course expeifted to
he taken pofleffion of without blootl
fhed.
It is a curiouscircamftaoce, which
has not hitherto been noticed, the'
it may be depended on, that a» fin
back as the middle of January~|att,
50 0001. ftoik was pmtf&led '|or
General ))nt..ouiier in the fcnglift
funds: How the General came to
be potf'efied of such a fani in £ng»
land, or should that period chuife
such a fecority, is not readily ac
counted f>>r. It is not polfible that
any of the secret service money tur
1793 could form past of tbia sum. .
April iB.
Exlrafl of a letter J rum Egaitie, lb his
tathir, dated Tour nay, iWertb 4.
" 1 fee 1 hat Libert} is no more.
I fee that (lie National CtJiiveniioti
have loft France by a renunciation
of principle. 1 fee every w here a
civil war. 1 fee every power lea
gued agair.il lis, and nothing to op
p< fe them ; our troops of the line
arc almcft annihilated, and the vo
lunteers have deserted.— Can the
National Convention fupptfe that
with fnch an army they can conti
nue (he war ? If they do they will
very Ihortlv be undeceived. What
evils ha*e ihev nor heaped 011 un
fortunate Fiance."PROCLAMATION.
GENERAL DUMOURIER
TO THE
FRENCH NATION,
AT the time I published my fjrft Procla
mation I had founded the fentiruenu of
all the corps of the army under my command,
and ail of them l'eemed penetrated with the mi
series which an anarchial tyranny, exercijTed in
the name of the National Convention, had en
tailed on our country. All of them acknow
ledged unequivocally, that we could not live
without laws, and appeared to me to agree in
opinion, that the rc-ellablifhment of the consti
tution would restore us to peace and good or
der, without which it was impoilible for us
longer to cxift.
I had nut as yet rcafon to expert that there,
could be the kail wavering from an opinion so
well founded, and which also passed unanimous,
and indeed, who could have conceived that the
Ger.erais themselves would have fought, thro'
their ambition, or by afpiritof infatuation, to
alter the resolution of the army ? Dampierre,
StetenhofF, la Morliere, Rofiere, Chancel, Fer
rand, hive confpircd against their country, a
gainst a good cause, agairifb their companions in
arms, andagainft me, xo wh ni they made re
peated aiTurances that they enter tained the fan,e
principles with ourfdves. I flia.ll not reproach
theni with ingratitude their consciences will
one day punish them fufhcienlly ; butihall con
fine myfelf to this observation, that neither of
them eilecm the miscreants whom they now
i'otrve—The Jacobins will, in their blind fury ex
ercise vengeance on them, for several of the
number are of the persecuted fe«sl; and the a
narchtfls will impute to them the disasters that
cannot fail to accompany the rash and sanguin
ary plans which that aff-mblage of factious cri
minal* will oppose to the regular plans of at
tack of the combined powers.
The revolt arranged by thef" traitors has for
A moment clwmged the fnce of wtoift the
commi.Tioners of the Convention, aifcmbled at
Valenciennes and Lille have employed measures
worthy of themselves to niillead the army, and
ftifle the pretended conspiracy which we all re
gard as a necessary a6t of virtue since it is the
only means-os saving France : They have em
ployed the arms of miscreants and cowards.
On the third of this month, fix fanatical vo
lunteers came to St. Amand, to poignard me—
I protejilcd them from the fury of the foldicrs,
and sent them to-keep company with the four
comiiiiffiOners ; they will augment the number
of the I oftages.
On the 4th three battalions of national vojun
teers deserted the camp, without orders, and
threw themselves Into Va'enci<,nnes. I met them
on the road between St. Amand and Conde, at
the distance of about half a league from the lat
ter place. I wa then without f-fcoi t, as a father
111 the midfl of his children, (for such was the
tender name the whole army had bestowed on
me.) I had at the mod, 15 or I i perfoijs with
mc on horseback—when the battalions were so
dastardly as. to assail me with a difchai ge of mui
qtietry. k'itcy kiTieci fevarai of'my suite, as well
as several horses.
They cut oIF the road t6 the camp to which I
tidied to retreat, and I was forced to favemy
feif, with a pare of the officers who accompanied
nie,l>y eroding the Scheldt in a boat, to repair
to the firil Imperial post. As it was not our in
tention to emigrate, and a 6 we were affuredthat
the a: my exprelfed a lirong indignation against
these afTaffin s as well as an attachment to the re
eftablifhment of peace -and good order, we re
paired at day-break to the camp. There, howe
ver, amidst reiterated protestations of attach
menr to t!ie principles that determined ns, we
remarked a mute and fallen agitation, which
made us judge that strong diflentions in opinion
prevailed, I addrefied each corps, and from each
corps received a reply tantamount to that made
on the preceding day.
Wifiiing-, however, after the remark we h&d
made, to repair to the head-quarters at St. A
mand, we learned that the corps of artillery had
formed the defigu of conveying their great park
to Valcnciennes; and that theplot of thefactious
men who mislead them to seize on us, to
convey us thither, and to make a merit of facri
fjLmg us to the vengeance of our tyrants. We
Jiad then one expedient only left, that of re
pairing to the Ifnperiai army, which we ought
to regarvt as our ally, after the frank and noble
proclamation by the general in chief by whom it
is commanded. Several corps <;f cavalry have al
ready joined us ; N feveral band> of infantry have
done the fame; and as soon as che Imperialists
ihalihavc entered the territory of France, not as
vanquisher*, and as wishing to dictate laws, but
as generous allies, who come to aid us in the re
establishing the conllitution, which can alone
flay the progress of the crimes and calamities
that menace France, many other corps wiil re
pair to unite chemfelvw to their brothers in
arm i.
I know the disposition of the army, and more
efpetiaUy thk of the troops of the line. Their
principles are, at the bottom, pure. They may,
f«>r a moment, allow thc-rufelves to be hurried
away by the exaggerated opinions incnlcate-d "to
; but as the invincible courage they have
(hfplaycd during the present war, mult necefla
riiy 1>? accompanied hy the d« fire of poffefiing
the laws they cannot find, unltfs in the constitu
tion, which wM destroy the odious tyranny of
anarchiils, they will be jealous of the public
elteem. They will bl fh at having, even for a
moment, been i.*pablc *f annexing their colours
to those of criminal licentioufhefs. They will
rally Hefide the brave troops who have only ac
companied me in my momentary retreat to re
enter France within two days at fartheft, andto
put an end to the vile disorders which cover all
France with mourning and terror.
I swear, in the name of my companions, that
we will not 'ay down our arms until we Ihall
have fuccecded in our enterprise ; aid our lole
design is to re-eftal}lilh the confiitution and con
ftitutional royalty—that no referrtmenr, mthirft
after vengeance, no ar.ibitiou.s itiotivc iways our
purpoles, that no foreign power (liail influence
our opinion, that wherever anarchy ftiail eeal'e,
at the appearance of our arms, smd those of tfie
combined armies, we will conduct ourlelves as
friends and orotitery; tliar \r-I-- ever we lhali
meet with resistance, wo ihail kmlw how to se
lect the culpaplc, and ipare the peaeerble in
habitants, the victims of the infamous wiles of
Jacobins of Pari •, from wliodi have a ifen the
honors and calamities of the war; tlr.it we
flinll in no vvaydiead the paignards of Marat
and the Jacobin;: that we will destroy the ma
nufacture of thele poignards, as well as that
of the fcaurhtlous wt tings bv which an at
tempt b inatle to pervert the noble and gene
rous character of the French nation bii«J)
tinuily, in tte name of my companions in arms.
1 repeat the oath, That we will live aiiddie
ff-- - 1
The General in Chief of the-French Army,'
DUMOURIEJi.' '
li cite wai'ihuuld C 'd with the expedition
which ieems proinifeil, by the ext'ao'dinaty
turn in the aS'in s of France, this country will
f,).>n attain a pitch of commercial proipeniy
before unknown to her. France, for many
years to come, must look to England for a fnp
ply of every thing, and with the new monar
chy of France, ihou.'d that be eJI ibli(hed, we
ftialt have it in our power to form the most
advantageous treaties of commerce. .
* It is reported that government has con!
eluded on the rrtealure of fending a Bilhop
and has conferred that dignity on thai
Rev. Jacob Mountain (Homeft c chaplain td
the Biftiop of Lincoln, a«piebpndary of that
cathedra 1 , Sec- and fate minister of St. An
drew's, Norwich) with, an appointment of
2Xjpl. per ahniini ; and it i» also fa d that
Mr. tskes him his brother,
the IW*.' Jnftuff Mottntain, as iiiidutieftic
ch-^plyin.
General Wimp'en, famous for his defence
of ThionvUi.e, was carried pritoner from
jVleiUz to jParis, towards the latter end of
March, loaded with chains.
Tiie town of Painhceuf (France) is no\y
befk'ged by the ioyaVift<. Should t fall, they
will entire mu Iters of the navigation of the
Lv>ire. Tl ey have ererted butteries, and
a - e firifig upon the national frigate La Capri
cienre, moored before Mendin.
Advice was vefterdav received in town that
a banking houle at Newcastle had Hopped pay
ment to a con fide r able amount.
Dako Frederii k of Hrimfwick Oels, has
reigned t!ie command of the Pmfijau army in
Brabant, and is succeeded by General Kno~
MefdorjjF, from general character and
acknowledged military reputation, the ftrori
gefi hopes of success are derived.
The hist French journals are lilent relpeft
jng, the reported decapitation of Geoerals
Mirandi, and I-anoue. That rnniour
may tncrei'o e' be couiideied as without ioun
datToiir*
Harwich, Aprtl 15.
Lafl niirht, after poll, the Dolphin Packet,
Gap* - . Fivn, arrived frnin Hel voeilluys, witti
t!»e Dutch mail. An infurreftion has cei tain
iy taken place at Paris, which terminated in
a general maflacre ; it is said not less than
were vi<slitns.'-i Sukjcquent accounts du
not confirm the above.
A M t R I C A.
E EEC, March 28.
Joseph Draper was ordered for execution
011 Tue day 2d of April—as near to the place
of public execution as the Urate of the ground
may permit, and in prefenc.e of the garrison,
but having made application for a week's
refute, we hear his Excellency has been
pleased to grant it.
The following is Prince Edward's speech to
tlie unhappy mail in pronouncing his par
don :
44 Draprr,
ii You have now reached the awful moment
when a few seconds would carry you into the
immediate presence of the Siiprem'e Being.—
You must be conscious of the enormity of your
guilt; and you have not the least right
to expert mercy. I, as your commanding
o&cer, am entirely prevented making any
application whatever in your favour; there
being from va. ious cirQumifances of the cafe,
no one opening that could jultify me in that
{Virion to take such a flep. However, ar, the
son ol'your sovereign, whose greatest preroga
t ve is tue diipenfa*"ion oi" mercy, I feel my
felf fortunately enabled to do that which,-as
youv colonel,the indispensable laws of military
discipline render it impolfible for me even to
think of.
" In this situation therefore, I have pre
fumeH to apply to the King's Representative
here for your pardon ; and lam hap ; jy to be
authorileil to inlbrin you that my interceflion
has bten fuccelsful ; M;.jor General Clarke,
in confequpnce of warm jiravers and entrea
ties, has had the goodness by his acquiefccnce
wi t!i my wilhe: to enuble me to prove both tr»
you and the public, that although your atro
cious machinations were chiefly directed
aigainft my pe-rfon, I am the 6rft to lorgive
you myfelf, and to obtain for you his Majeity's
mercy. Ma* you take warning by this awtul
fcei:e, and so conduct yourlcM, fliat by the re
mainder <>f yonr life, you may atoi\»*for your
past crimes; and that 1 day not hereafter
have oicafion to repent having now been your
advocate."
'HARRISBUKGH, (Penn ) J-Jrte 3.
A cfwrrinl wifhest.* knyw, wt.at thu
f«m<- cap 0* litn riy i>, indt wis hiodcd from
head i<» l.cjii a! the cntcr;*ifimcni given l«>
Aro'j.-foioi U V U« Fiench Rc>i:W:?, :I ' S
427
arrival in Philadelphia—wh?t are.the compo
nent pa is, cl 1 inc-niton*, and ihape i L) >< .1 up <f-
Ass powcii that imperii p'.ibly j x
ternizt all who Wi'iir »t, and udliu&ivciy wrdt
otn them a piiiuoric ejaculation j* W •> it not
that it ii.id covered 'h«s headof a number of re-
Vdable ch ara&> rs, he would be apt to think,
that, in its c>l j«.ct, u bore Tome (imihtude to the
cap occasionally worn a( countrv schools, com
n> *■ v called a dunce's or fool's cap. With
this c*p it is usual to compliment blockheads
and idle boys, who, diilatisfied with the circum-
T i ibtd libeity ihfy enjoy, .att- inpt to fubvrrt
the amho ity of ihemaftcr, and to put him upon
a level with themfeives—a (i uatton more confo
rmant to the .piefem enlightened fyltetn of equali
ty, and the ,rights of man.
On Monday" arrived here the brig Aurora,
Capt. Strong, in.seven days from Charletfon.
It appears From the public prints by this vef
fel r that the late accounts oflndian depredati
ons in Georgia 'nave been greatly exaggerated.
In the month of May one faniny h-td been cut
off, and that high up the Oconee river. One
or two flight Ikirmi flies had taken place be
tween very fmill parties of Indians tz whites-
The Cherokee* were perfectly disposed for
peace. The Chickafaws had declared war
againll the Creeks, it was thought,
be joined by the Cbocktaws. The rice
crop-; in Carolina had be#n considerably da-,
jinged by a fucceilion of gre at rains.
Mr. Blancbard on made bis Pa
rachute experiment with complete success.
A dog, a cat, and a fquirrcl were carried up
with the Parachute by a balloon. A match
was ib placed as to burn, at a certain heighth,
.the connexion between the balloon and the
parachute, under which the animals were fe
curcd ; the tiniloan then ascended with re
de>:\!VeJ velocity, and the parachute descend
ed, firft with celerity, but Toon spreading in
the shape of an umbrella nearly, brought the
travellers fafely to .the ground near Bulh-hill,
from the heighth of about one mile.
London, April 10,
It i"! currently reported (fay? a letter from
Cape-Francoi*,) that Admiral Gardner, with
an Englilh fleer, has taken all the Fench
islands to the windward, and that it is his in
tention to take that place next.
The 28th ult. a fubfeription was ope-ed in
the borough of Carlifl;, for the benevolent
purpose of aiding the diftrefled friends of
Freedom in the Republic of France. In the
conrfe of a few liouis upwards of eighty bar
rels of flour were i'ubferited.
Mr. Daniel Jo'ephus Contini, a native of
Curacoa, aged about 28 years wbofe father is
a merchant in Amflc-rdam, and Mr. Harvey
Doughty, a native of the rtate of New-York,
aged ab-iut 24 years, were unfortunately
drowned about eleven o'clock on the night of
Sur-day last, in attempting to go 011 board the
tiaptain Reading, f«rrtty arrived
sunn Port-au-Prince, in which the former
came paflenger, and the latter was the mate.
We are informed, by a Charleston paper,
that a draft lias been made from the inhabi
tants of the {late nf Georgia, for the purpose
of repelling tl« aggreflmns. of the Indians,
who continue to commit hottile depredations
o 1 the frontiers of that state ; and that a ina
j n'ity of the youth capable of bearing arms,
■•■.'.to were not included in the above draft,
have voluntarily engaged in the expedition.
The friaarcJ'Embufcade, we hear, is gone
out of the Capes.
Tne fljiprWilliam, captured by the Citizen
Ot'net, and the brig Fanny, a prize to the
!Sa|Vs Culottes, have been libelled agginft by
their former awitei's, as illegal prizes.
By letters received in town this week, we
learn that the Commilfioners of the United
States, for holding a treaty with the Indians,
were arrived at Niagara the 27th ult
'RichariJ How-el, Esq. was elefWd Gover
°n Mo ml ay last, by the
Lqg|jl»tijre at'that ftste.
Toefday being the Birth Day of his Britan
nic M.jcity, several gentlemen met to cele
brate it, at Mr. Rich.mlet's Tavern in Tenth
Street. An elegant dinner was provided, and
tlie dly spent in perfect harmony. Ihe fol
lowing toasts and sentiments were given.
t. George the Third, King of Great-Bri-
tain.
2. pueen Charlotte.
3. George i'rince of SVales, and the reft of
the Royal FamiW.
4. George Walhington, President of the
United States.
j. Gfeorge Himmond, Minister Plenipoten
tiary from Great-Britain.
6. Phineas Bond, Coniul-General from do.
7. The proclamation 01 neutrality—May
the heart thai di&ated, and the head that pro
piled it, live long to enjoy the bleiungs of all
true friends to humanity.
if." The profperitv and commerce of Great-
Britain and America —may rheir intereiU be
ro»!p; Bcal, an<l those interests protected.
V- All .good Americans—May moderation
be their principle; neutrality their resolu
tion, and industry their motto.
10 The cap of liberty; but may those who
wear'it- know there it another for licentious-
ntfs.
11 Men and principle*— uay neither be
forgotten, if deserving rc:nembrance.
19.. The Conftirut'o iof Great-BriraiM—
May flwi!l b3 tj remove all protube.
r^r.ccsjiVoui the tree, fofhall ;tsbranchesex
papd, and ftielter thofc who now fit beyond
their ihadc-
OV :c.
Philadelphia, June 8.
3 T'm? red coaM wooAm w«11s of
Canveitticf? have pa/fed a
decree for confining a r > hotlages, for tlie fafety
ard good treatment of Gen. Bourfion ville and
t?*e f-*ur CrfiiimilTioners sent prisoners to the
rtaJfrriaif? by Gen. Dumourier, the following
persons, now prisoners to the French, viz.
Francis Xavie**, Count Averfperg, and
Augu\Tu<? Count de Lii if e, both of the family
of CobDurg— che two brothers, Labarre, ne
phews to General Clan fait—Charles Oiine
doc, Count of Linange Wifterbourg—Fcld *•
nand Charles, liis son, Hereditary Count.-—
These hostages to be treated in the iaine man
ner as the Commiflioners and the Mjnifter
Bournonville a>e treated by t «e Au'trians.
Tbe decree of the Convention tor the re
moval of the Bourbon family, has been tar
ried into execution—-except the ea*e i>f
Madam Bourbun d*Or)eans, v wh# beiog ikrif*
had fevem permitted fir --pen»sria"iw u*D
house.
By the last accounts from England, it *p.
pears that the Bnti/h flqet under the earn
mand of Lord Hood, was at Tea. ,
The celebrated Dr. Graham, in ar stlver
tifement in a London paper, informs the pub
lic, that he has failed 14 days and 14 nights
fucceflively, not having eat or drank even the
final left particle of any thing, except foms
simple raw water, of which he hath made so
lemn oath before the Lord Mayor ot London.
The Do&or proposes to teach the art in a
course of Le&ures.
In this there*s nothing nezi 1 — a Drayman*s Horse,
Was on a time a pupil to a courJe-~-
OJ Graham's Lettutes—but in vain he tried,
Suns Hay—Jans Oats—poor Tibby Jhrutik and dyd.
Boston, Jane I
DIRECT FROM FRANCE.
On Wednefclay evening arrived at
Bedford, the (hip Canton, Capt.
Durtkirk in Fiance, which he left the 13th
April. The Editor has been favored with a
iMrnfal nf'.laffers hh>«gtit bf
from whicft he has ext rafted the flowing i
Dunkirk, 13th April, 17'jg.
" According to all appearance, every nvi
ment is big with event':, not the molt pieafii.f!
The passengers will give the particulars if
t'.ie unexpected catastrophe ot' Dumoni ier's
deletion, which has c.iuferf the defeat and ai
moft entire diiTolution of the French army.
" The enemy ha? entered the French ter,
ritory, and the reCuit is wifely hid from us.
Two of the moll dreadful calamities that can
befal a country, seem to invade the southern
departments—Civil wars have commenced,
a: d famine threatens them."
A letter fom Bedford, fays, that letlers
received by the Canton state.: —That Dumoii
rier, with Generals Valence and Egalite,
(the younger) Two Hundred Officers and
<PO3 men, had joined the Auflri«n army j
That the French, though apparently in good
spirits, were making but feeble refinance,and
that the Auftrians were within 5 or 6 leagues
of Dunkirk, and it was not expected it could
br hcM fionr tt-rm. ft Was PaWTIIS "elfrer
Egnl'.te is under arrest at Paris."
T!ie remains of the French afmy lately
commanded by Dumourier, were in France,
about 15 miles from Dunkirk, at tfte cf
our last accounts.
Aißgnat*, on the 12th April, were *t two
and an half for one ih silver.
A letter fiom Tobago, dated May f, ffcjs,
" A French Squadron has arrived at Mjufti
niqi'e, confuting of one fcip of 110 guns,
74% and five frigitet."
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED a!theTORT tJVHILADEi PHf A.
Brig Portland, Pratt, St. Maffc*
Jenny,
Snow Kehe,
Schooner Sallv,
Sloop Hope,
Ferri»,
Hylande r,
Curtis,
Venniman,
Price ojStocks as ?n our lojl.
THE MEMBERS OF THF.
INSURANCE COMPANY OF
NORTH AMERICA,
Are difred to take Notice,
THAT thr Conlliiution requires Payment of
One Dollar on each Share s on the Second
Monday (the Bth Day) o! July next, on Penalty
of Forfeiture of the Money already paid.
S'ich Stockholders as have not made their se
cond Inftalmeni, are that
will be received at the Company's Orfice, No/
119, South Froni-Strref. either on or before the
said Day,asthev may find it mod convenient.
EBENEZEK HAZARD, Sec'rr.
June 8. 1793. efitHj.
FOR SALE,
I 360 Acres of excellent
FARMING or TOBACCO
LANDS,
LYING in the county of Amberfl, in Ihe
fta:e of Virginia, on one of the principal
branches of James River, within fix miles of
the latter, from whence it it navigable for boats
of ten or twelve tons burthen.
Besides the advantage? of ihtfe land*, foj the
fatmer or■ cultivator of tobacco, thev we fop.
posed, from a small though fucteisful experi
ment made by flic late Col. Chifwell, to contain
an abundance of metals, which, if not of a pre
cious (as has been even fuppoied) ar: certainly of
a veiy vafuab c kind. The better however to
ascertain this fad, and place the purcbafcr on a
fafe footing, in so hazardous a bqlinefs, at aU
chose subterraneous wi h iut the u:-
most certamty of an abundance of the dcfiie«L
ore, are supposed to b<, every reasonable and.
ncceflai y afTiiUnce or indulgence will be rcn
tlerrd those inclined 10 make- the experiment,
well as every other ne< rtfary informs '.on given
by the print* r of ihu G«*ct(e in Pniladelpi la, ur
JOHN MiCUQiAS.
OitrfettefviJU, Virgir.it.
St Croix
Falmouth
N. Carolina
GeorgiafROM THE NLWPORT MLRIUHY.
/ */
r pO all those who arc pleafrd ttf fee the'
JL French Nation emancipate ibemfelves from
a government too prepr>fteious and corrupt to ,
be »nv "longer tolerated —To all thole who are
aoxioct and fearful lor their fucccfs, in a ftrog
gle the molk da: in-, the molt dangerous
virtuosi, that was ever inadi by any
thic human lace, at n mi»wc»t when their whole I
horiz m (ecnis darkened with en£n>ic* —BE IT ]
KNOWN, That this fame F»rncW N>no» have
heretofore and conquered againlt this
f~mc combine i«>n ol :
4; January t£'h t 1692, A' the C'Mlgrefs ot
file H3?;i r of the Piincesof Germany,
the I n >eriai, the Italian, Spantlh and
Du c'n M>nifte:s, a declaration wa drawn uo,
wherem they foletroly proieftrd before God,
that intern ona we e *0 make peace
with Louie XIV. uutil he had made reparation
to rhe Holy Sec for whatever he'had a£\ed a
gainlt it ; and till he h*<i annulled and made
vo'.d all th6fe infamous proceedings agauift the
Holv Fathefr, Inn >cent Xl—Nor till he had re
stored 'oeach party all he had taken from fhem
since the peace of Muuflcr—Nor till he had re
llo»ed to the Pioitftami of France all their £of-
CfflSons andgood? ; ancban tirfire liberty ol ton-
IctcnCc— Nor till the EJtatcs ol the Kingdom* of
France flvniid be eftabliQttd in their ancient
; Iq that the Cle*gy, the Nobility,
and the thud Cftate might enjoy their -ancient
and privileges—Nor tilt their Kings, for
the fu ure, should be obliged 10 call together
the fa»t} £fta<e when they drfired any supply,
without wfthfi)' ftiey ft: old rioi ralfe any mo
ney on ariy pre-t'nee whatever, and till the Par
liament? of :hat Kingdom weie rt stored .to
the?r jiii\ rr&hls.—-And l he Confederates invi
ted the Hihji/Js of France to join with ihcm in
this unddak rfg, lor restoring them 10 tfceir
rigbfa an'd liberties ; threatening ruin and oe
vaft»rir«!» to those that refufed." Bht how mtich
the Frertch regarded threat, the following
hSii will ihew :
" Apiil tftth, 1692. Mons was surrendered
lo the French.
** June sth, 1892. The town of Nainur fur
tenJcred in the Fiench.
•' August 3d. A battle was fought at Sttin
kirk, the C«»iifld< raws were coi. man'ded by
William in person, and the French by the
Duke o' Luxemburg^—The Confederates weie
forced to retreat with the loss ot icveral thou
sand brave officers and fotdiers.
" June i(>fh, 1693. Admiral Rook with
twenty-three men of was, having the Tuik'ey
fleet linger his convoy, was attacked off Cape
St. Vincent by the Whole French fl A et, undci
the command of Admiral Tourville, twelve
and Dutch men of war, and above foui
fco-e merchantmen were taken or destroyed by
the Fiench.
il July 2<jrh. The Confederate Armv, com
inanden bv Km& W'liiam. was entirely defeat
ed by the French, under the command of Lux
femburgh, at Lfetulfo, i»» Brabant.
44 Sept. 94th The French, under the com
mand of Monsieur Catina:, defeated the Con
federates, unrter'the command of im Duke of
Savoy and Prince £ug< nc, at Marfiglia* near
Turin,
" June&h. The Englilh fleet with a body
oT land f<7Tf son hoard fame before Brcft in
France, and Gen. Taimarfh landed with the&rft
five hundred men, where ihey. found such bat
teries and entrenchm nts that they ret.red im
mediately to their (hips; but the tide going out,
the flat boats stuck upon the ouzc and were not
able to .get oh, molt of thole that lauded were
killed or wounded, and among the reft Gene
ral Taltharfh himTelf was jnortaljy wounded,
and died at his return to Portsmouth.
" May 26th. The ?rench made themfcltes
matters of Carthagcna, in A'mcrica, from which
Admiral Fonts brought away with niin to
I"ranee the value of twelve millions ot drowns,
according to the Spamfo account.
14 July 16Q7. The Earl of Portland,
Marshal" Boufflcrs, arljufted the d fferences
Between King William and the French King
near BrufTclf, without the privity of any of the
Allies, who were treating at R\fwick : And
Sept. u, the peace was Ggned between France,
Great-Britain, Spain, and Holland, and ratified
by King Wnjiatn a« I>o L the i£ih. Wil
liam Concluded this peace, without the concur
rence of the $mpctoV and Empire, and It ft
them to cottiend alone With Fiance."
Thus did this nation (who at that timr were
spoken of by the English as tagged, lialf-(brved
Frenchmen, fed on f*og-fouj ) defy and triumph
over a combination of •eneihies neatly equal to
theprefent, ami upon rhe fame ground.
From this piece of history, the friends of
France, of humanity and equality, may learn
two i — portam points. Firit, That one hun
dred year# ago, the rn»feries and fuife rings of
the .French nation, from a cruel government and
policy, *'as not a meie vulgar notion, hut a
leal grievance, that employed the Councils and
arms of nearly all fcuroi e to rediefs- it. And
secondly, That this fafee French people, under
this cruel government, badly clothed and fed,
by dim of nunilieu, bvavejey. activity and in
genuity, were it match tor England, the Empe
ror, and the P'inees of Germany, the Dutch)
ifely and Spain.— Good Heavens, ! of what
cbntradi&ion? are men capable :— In iSgi, the
Princes «' Europe olecge th~rnfrlvcs to their
God and to each other, that they will reform
the aby'fci.of the French government,and mend
ihecono»»iop of-he,people,, buijire.not able co
do it. The French g'roju uuder tnefe iucrea
ling r.hufcs 61.e Sundrt d years longer, and then
rift together 2nd break their chains. And lo !
these firne Princes combine, with the tm.fl He
red ian ferocity,, to exterminate the people »>l
France, for doing of themselves, and For thera
fefves, what tfre Pr-nces wished and attempted
in vain to'do for them.
K nj/s and hereditary Princes. from Pharaoh
and Re ho boa m, down to the F«edericks and
Geotgcs of our time, have beenjutl as benefici
al to Ihe human race, as fchool-bovs have been
to the rate of sparrows.—They have killed more
men by Rindnefs, in acfrhiniflfering the benefits
of good government, than have b<en denroyed
by famrtre, pcftilende, earthquakes, and every
ether fcourgc t• which men are liable.—Our late I
Moit Gracious Soveieign, in the nchnefs of lna
cleim (icy, and the fulr.efs of h<s Royal irnrCy, |
put toolat 130, 0c0 of his veiy good fubjt£i* ot
America to death, to convince them ho* «o live
corrtfortabty, and after all tailed of convittton.
The p'efent combination'of Princes in Europ*,
actuated by the noble and godiike moiivea ol
bettering the condition of mankind, ara about
to teach the m«»ft poltfh d and enlightened® na
tion tn the world,that they are wholly unab'e 10
manage their own affairs; and that they mull
receive a good plan ot government from th m,
nr.. All the riatrvrs and inhabitants of Fiance, 10
be divided into three-grand divisions ; the si ft,
an hereditjiy nobilnv ; the second, soldiers ;
and the third, comiß«»nets, or tier* etat ; in
plain language, hewers ol wood, and draw-, rs ot
water; so .that ev ry common man in Trance
fhsll bave two inalli-rs, the one callcd a civil of
ficer 01 inalfrs •*ho holds a papct, >t»d
marks down how much he must- pay i»-gov*rrt
ment a yor ; the fccond, Called a military offi
cer, that is, an Qncivil master, who carries a
bayonet, and pricks him or.>in tafe he don't pay
in feafun. The two fuft davifiofts are to eat thi
egg, thr third ertate the (hell and the broth ; the
two firli divifion-* will be taught tp and
read, and keep the third to haid labtJr and poor
living. But we irull, and fincercly brlieve,ihat
the fame wit, a&ivuy and bravery, that hav<
maintained their territo»"y ai«d reputation, amu ll
furroundmg enemies lor ages pati, wiM ftiil sup
port them, to verify by p'adice and example the
truth of that pofuion. made by one ot their own
Writers, that mankind may be happy without
An expedient to riiiepe a child who hat a corn or
heart, or any otfi'et ioofc fubjiance hdgtd, in its
npfr.
TAKE the child between your flop
both itseirs with your fingers, and with yOtir
thumb stop the nofti il that is clear, then blow
with a strong and sodden into its mouth,
and the obftruling fobftane'e will be inftiititly
removed.
I have kitnwn tbii r*iheAy to*b«4rfe<kin #f
veral of lata, with • fticct/Vj tHd
ch»c wiiM tha fobftlnce (in wie infftanoe ■
forti #od!tbe otber a wa:i ft> tar np the
nuftrif, thatitcwld beextraAnlby no tnftro
toent. A PARENT.
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, May 27, I 793.
500 Dollars Reward.
WHEREAS a certain THOM AS fcLOSS
GANTT, has .lately made his escape
froln Baltimore County Gao', to which he was
com milted under a charge of having nibbed the
Eastern Mail, on the 28th day of January Jaft :
Notice is hereby given, that a reward v of five
hundred doH/rs will be paid at this Office, to
any person or persons who fhail apprehend the
said Thomas S/of* Gdntt, and deliver ,btin into the
cullody of the keeper of the laid Gaol, or invo
thecu'flody of cither offhc Maifhajs wuhin rtie
United S'ates, so that the said Thomai S/of> Gantt
nijy be eife&ually secured, and forth coming to
answer the above mentioned charge.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Poji-Maflcr GtvtraL
The following is a description of the above
named Thomas Sloss Gantt : He is about
fix feet high, iirait well made, has light co
loured hair, tied behind, fair coinpitxion and
has a down look when fpo.ken to.
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprieiors of t'ie Gldfs-Manufactory, under
the Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR arid Co,
BEG leave to inform the public, that they have
now brought their \V v 1N DOW-GLASS to
such perfefiion, s w-11 be found,.on com pari fan,
to be equal, in quality, to the best Loudon
Crown Glafe.
Having fixed their piices at a lower rate than
imported Glass, they are induced to believe, that
importations of this article will be difconiinued,
in proportion as their works are cx'cnced.—
They propose to enlarge the scale of this busi
ness, and as the fucce's of it wiji depend on the
patriotic support of the piiblic, they beg leave 10
solicit their friendly patronage in the pursuit of
a branch >yhich will intend c\ery lover of
American Manufactures.
All orders, for Window-Glass, of any size,
will be received at the Store of Rhodes and
MaCGricor, No. 234, Queen-street, New-
York, and at the Glass Wa'ehoufe, No. 48,
Market-Ureet, Albany, which will be pun&ually
attended to.
(PT' WANTED, fix fman aßive LADS, no.
exceeding 16 vears of age, to be indented as
Apprentices, and regularly inftruftcd, in ihe
various brancho of Gl.fs Making.
A'.fo, three Window-Glals Makers, Ip whom
great encouragement w>H be given.
Ahy t, l 793.
City of Washington.
January 7ih, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lois in this Cuy will be of
fered lor sale at auflion, by the Commif
(ionert; on the 17th day of September next
One fouith pan of the puichal'e money is trfbe
paid down, the refidoe at three equal onnual.pay
ments with yearly nut reft od the V.hole gjiari
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Ctert Id thfCM'rs.
Extract of an A£l of the General Afifemldy of
Mai yland, concerning the Territory ot Co
lumbia, and the Citv ot Wafliingmn.
'' Be it ena&cd, Thai any foreigner nay by
deed or will, hereafter to l< made, take and hold lands
wit/itn that part oj thffaid Territory which lies with
in thii Stale, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen oj this State ; and the fame lanSs may be con
vened by him, and tranfmrtted to and be inherited by
his neirs or relations, as if he and they were citizen
of thi\ Stat, : Provided, That no foreigner Jhall,
in virtue hereof, be entitled to any fmthei or other
privilege 0/ * citizen.'*
tf
J:"- '9
428
STATE of RHODE-rSLAND art PROVI
DENCE PLANTATIONS.
In Central Alfe«J>l)t May $eJ/io* t A. D. 1793*
RESOLVED, That an .Ast patted by this
Ass mbly at ihebeflioo in May, A. D. i79l*
w Hereby Jaiez KovtN, E»'q. Comm.(Boner of
Loans, was tequefted not to loan any Notes of a
ceriain dcfcripuou, iffucd by tbi Gencial lica
furer of this State for Monies due to the Soldiers
of the late Army, in conlequence of having
b en fraudulently obtained, and the said Com
missioner was further requelted to retain said
No.es in his office until such future orders fbould
be thereon made,as might confilt with the prin
ciples of jaftite and equity, be, and the fame is
hereby repealed, so far as regards the detention
oi ihofe Notes.
it is Jnrther refolred, That the General Trea
surer advcrtife 1 •> all the newfpaoers in th*s ftaie,
and in the Gazette aj the United States, a dtfcnp
tion of the Notes thus fraudulently obtained,
wiih a caution to ail pcifons not to purchase
them.
Lift of Notes obtained from theTreafury
Office by fraudulent Measures, to wit:
W'hen delivered. To whom When Amount of
17QO. ta\able. taxable. the Face.
if *-
Sept.2s. Sharpo Chainplin, on 41 1 5
Prince Cjfe do. if 18 2
S ephen Charles do. 30 9 10
J'»hn B'own do. 1214
C«e r ai Cddy do. 51 210
John Okry ♦ do. 43 19 11
Oft. 14. John Reed do. 31 4 o
j-'hn Hnifley do. 29 o 6
William King do. 22 19
16. Pii'ucc Saylcs do. 11 19
B-iftol Arnold do. 38 9 6
C«far Rose do. 11 8
Cudgr Champfin do. 40 11 10
Jack Greene do. 40 8 6
18. Joseph Tanner do. 43 710
Cato Vernon do. 20 3 3
Daniel Sharpc do. . 30 Ijo
Prnce Randal do. 38 11 7
J'.fhua Dick do. s'g 19 o
William Nrgro do. 2 9 5 5
23. )ofeph HII do. 39 12 o
Benjamin Spragne do. 10 6
Peter H »rris do. 38 14 2
28. Stephen Aid 1 ich do. 22 14 o
William Mar Call do. 35 8 2
Prince Chjlds do. 27 12 4
Leicester Wheeler do. 19 2 0
Pat Hackmct do. 25 14 8
Abraham Smith do. 24 14 8
John Thomas dp. 41 ig 2
Jack Warden dp. 31 ,0
John Bristol do. 33 18 ij
Benjamin Reed do. 32 4 g
Cato Bannister do. 27 2 7
Nathaniel Wicks do. 20 8
Benoni Hathaway do. 36 17
Evan Evans do. fe"B 7 2
Joseph Merry do. 32 8 7
Pero Greene do. 28 16 g
•5. Benoni Hunt do. 4° 5 o
H. Cato Brown do. 37 5 7
Africa Bu»k do. 27 2 9
London Slocum do. 23 8 ij
Jark Minihorn do. 27 2 q
ig. Tibbft T. Hopkins do. 41 23 8
17. Ned do. 40 oio j
B >fton Wilbour do.. 42 7 io |
Tonv Phillips do. 27 3 o 1
E'jhraim Rogers do. 623
Robert Goreham do. 41 o io
24. Robert How and do. 39 d 9
James Singleton do. 21 15 ©
James Cross do. 35 4 6
CatoS.anlv do. o io
j«>hn George do. 19 19 6
John' Crandal do. 77 i 2 2
Prince Power do. 19 4 q
Benedict Aaron do. 75 10 8 1
Caesar S'helden do. 12 18 y
Caesar Wefel do. *7*7 9
Scu>io De W«tft do. 19 xo
Bristol Liuher 80. 18 2 3
John Huffry do. 28 11
D-c. 2. Be njapiin Sweet do. 6 o 2
Silas Mawney do. 28 15 4
John Wtllfon do. 9 o
6. James Mac Sparrow $0. 28 16 3
it. Ca:o Bourse do. 6 io 2
Prime Gardner do. 2 M 1
Joseph Wirttev do. 18 4 8
Cornelius Dralkill do. 18 4 8
Pero do. 69 7 6
Dublin Briggt do.. 17 4 8
Br<dg< 1 Stake do.. ig 16 it
Ed waid Ealterbrooks do. 10 4 1
Cuff Atuold do. 5 10 3
Prime Clarke do. 53 16 6
John Mc Donnal do. 12 4 7
13. George Robbins do. 21 o ij
John Morris Obrien dp. 25 19 2
Prin.e Brown do. 41 17
Solomon Mathews do. 33 5 6
Tack Siffon . do. 40 7 8
Newport Greene do. 3- 3 y
Ebenezer Caifar do. 11 6 8
John Elliott do. 21 o 3
Reuben Thorp do. 23 O 2
Thomas Randal! do. 24 n 2
Thomas Durfee do. 22 it 6
Daniel Hammon do. 29 o
Richard Hopkins do. 45 3 q
Henry Flazard do. 25 3 3
Levi Cole do. 9 411
Allen Souihwoith do. 18 19 3
Richard Allen do. 74 j8 10
Dec. Wiiham Chadfcy, on demand, ly $ 6
Ichabod Simmons <io. 4 1 j
John Brown do. n 19
John Gavit do. 20 16 4
William Ackman do. 42 18 o
Jack Coddington do. 710 4
Caef.'i Gardner do. 8 12 7
Toby Coves 00. , 7 lc
John Wiiifon do. ,
25. John Gavet do. 66 6 j
John Carrifo'll do.
IN OBEDIF NCE io ihe alofc r.cited Ast of
the General Altcmbly, I ch> lieVrby caution all
peifons fiom receiving any of the above men.
lionid N'otet, without the most plenary proof
being made ihat they we-e obtained from the
office by genuine dOiumcnta from the loid'.jrs
<€pI2W
who performed the fenriee, in w&nm the ba!Mice*
were found due, or U.cir leg«i », prr(eu.«.
live* or attorute».
HENRY SHER3URVE,
Neiuficrt, May 14. 17^3.
C IjRCULAR LITTiR, „
OF THI
HISTORICAL SOCIETY,
Reff>cßfully atMrrfjed to cv*rj Go (I"mar gj SlicXa
t« tiit i titiiine-it <jni of AmencM.
Sil,
A SOCIETY lw» IxHy hem tnfl:tuCr(j iD jlil#
xV Stats. called ihc Histo« i<£l Sle'ViVt ;
!hr piofeffrd ol which is,;o col)?li, ptrl
serve and commnnicate, ma-ertala for li mnipM,
history of ihit Couhtry, »ud accruim* c*f 11 vim.
able effort! of human ingeo'M'y and mdwftft
lio«n ihe beginning ol lit (c>tlrroen:.
lu.itici of liv* I hey have air» ai iv ainiflrH a
quantify of book,, p>mphlei« and maiiu.
fcripu ; and are flilt o! mote : A eaia
lpgpeof which wili be printed or ihe mfnrma.
lion of the putilic.
They have alln enCnuiaged the publifcatioaaf
a monthly pamphlet, in which 'sgmnlWrrtnk
of iheir enquiries, inu> the natural, poiil!tai ant
ecclcfilftical hiflory of this country. It is re.
quelled that you would contribute to it> iifije
and importance, by mention 10 the astrirtep ui
nexed. The Society beg lea«e |o depeili
your obliging answer to these heada of inquiry',
whrn leifureand opportunity will permit.
Your letter* addrefled, free of Tofhe
fubfcriher, will be grjtelullv received, andfltily
noticed in the Society'a publication*; and yta
will have the fcliatadiAo. ftf contributing i« it*
general ftotk of tap*v.W<lt*' with whictflkeV
hopt; tq eqifrtair; the pubsft ,
In the name, and by ijjrijifjf ibcSeifty.
BELi^N/iPa..
r < -■ Secretary.
Bofbn, iri Nit. i, 1791.
Articles on which the Society requej>
information.
1. The time when you# town or city Was in
corporated ; its Indian name; when the settle
ment b<g3u ;. whether it wa* interrupted, and
by, means; to what Colony or. County vt
was fir ft annexed ; .?nd, if there have been any
alterations, what theyaarte t and whfn made.
2. The ex,ploug, labours and ruffcfipjfc/jt thp
inhabitants in war ; particular accomus oi de
vastations, Heath*, capi>vii»es and redemptions.
Divisions of yoijT town or c;ty in par ;fhcj
and precincts, or the ere&iori of new towns
within the foriper limits. .
'if. Time of gathering fchorchcs of every rle.
nomination ; names of the several Miniftcrs
the tintesof their fettlemeot, removal and death ;
anjl their gge at ihe lime of their death.
g. Biographical of persons in your
town, or withlin your knowledge, who have
beep remarkable. for ingenuity, enterprise, lite
rature, or iny piher valuable accouipi'ihm-1 ;
an account of their dietary productions, and if
pojTi' le, eppies ot ihem.
6. Topograchifral description of your town
or county, and us vicinity -, moontwtfi, rivtrrs,
ponds, animal*, vegetable productions.; re
markable falls, caverns, nvnetalgj ftonesrj
pigments, mcdicinal atid poisonous {üblfances,
rHcir uses and antidotes.
f. The former an&pvefent ftatc of cultiva
tion, and your thoughts on fa/iher itnbvove
menrs, cither in refpefl to agriculture, roads or
cabals.
8. Monuments and felicks of the ancient In
dians ; number nnd prefeftt ttaie of any remain
ing Indians you.
9. Singular in.(bnces«f longevity and fecun
dity from tbe fit ft fettiemem 19 the prtfent tiiTie.
10. on the weather, d»feafcs,
and the influence of the climate, or qt particular
lit ua lions, employments and aliments,, ffpeci
ally the eHt&of spirituous liquors on the human
cor.ftitution.
li. Acctirate bills of mortality,
ages and cafuaitics, the proportion of binhs yid
deaths, and £He increase 01 aecreafr of popula
tion.
12.. Accounts of manufa&ures and fifheries,
and thoughts on the faithcr improvement of
them.
13- Modes oftidocation, prmire
what .ct)covragc.ment is given to fcbools and
colleges., and is.dgne to advance iite>atu<e;
whether you have a social lij)rat£, what is the
number, pt books, and of what value.
14. What remarkable events have be(al)en
your state, county, town, or particular families
or persons, at my lime.
P. S. "The Correlponding Members of this
Society are requcftea to tranfrim to the Cme.
fpondi'ng iecre'ary, any hiftopcaT tmwmptiofl
of which thy may be pott fifed, refprfcline; ar.y
part of the American Continent and I Hand** to
gether with pvinted »£U and journals of Assem
blies and Conventions, whether civil or
aftical. And the Society will grate fully receive
from them ar.d from all other persons whatever,
any books* manuscripts, maps or
..plans which may be ufeful in forming an hiftori
cpl colli£tion—and any natural or. artificial pro-
which may enlarge the Mufcum.
The Library.,and Mufcurn are deposed in an.
apartment of Fancuil Ha 1. Anyptrfon dtfVous
of /naking a (carch among ihe books or manu
scripts, many fcavc accrfs to them under fucji
gulations, as may be known by applying 10 any
one of the members.
JttJl piiblijhid,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At th: Stone AO. 41, South Secor J-Street,
A C A S E, ,
Decided in the Supreme Cpuß-T of the USiTio
States, in which is ci fru:ild the Question,
WHETHER A STATE IS LIABLE TO BE
SUED BY A PRIVATE CITIZEN OF
ANOTHER STATE!
Pries Half a Dollar.
{£3~ The price of this Gazette is Three Dt/Um.i
tier annum—One half to be pud a the tiwu of Jut'
fcriiiig.
Gtocraj-Treafurer.
3*