C -V^liii-
[No. LXII.j
THE TABLE T No. LXII.
" There is, generally /peaking, left truth in panegy
ricks than in satires."
WHOEVER might be the author of the re
mark contained in my motto, he certain
ly did not mean it as a compliment upon human
nature. Some of the asperity, which the obier
vation discovers, will be taken off, when we re
flect that men, who write satires, draw too lively
an image of the bad qualities of others ; and those,
who bellow panegyricks, give too favorable a co
loring to good qualities. Both may be carried to
extremes, though neither originated in fallhood.
it is no proof that satirical writings contain more
truth than panegyrical, merely because the for
mer excite more forcible impreiiions than the
latter. The fact is, we are more strongly affett
ed with the failings, than with the virtues ofone
another. If in company I draw a favorable cha
racter of my neighbor, my companions attend less
eagerly to what I lay, than when I prefent|to their
view an odious character. But this does not
prove that I do not speak, with an equal degree
of truth, in both instances. It only shews that
there is a predisposition in men to attend more
critically to the bad, than to the good qualifica
tions, that are made the subject of con. erfation.
The enemies of a man are more active and vi
gilant in exposing his bad actions, than his friends
are, in displaying the meritorious points of his
character. This however is 110 proof that his
friends depart from the truth, any more than his
enemies. Men more readily make a common
cause offpying out and reprobating the vices or
•defects of others, than they do, in searching for
and proclaiming their virtues and excellencies.
A vicious action rouses fonie of the most energet
ic palfions of the foul. It produces in the mind
more ferment and agitation than can be excited
by any exhibition of virtuous deeds.
The truth contained in fatireis generally more
obvious, and more readily acknowledged, than
in encomiums. Men, who draw upon themselves
the pen of the satirist, often have other enemies
to encounter besides the writer ; for a satirical
attack upon aman isofitfelf a circumftantialevi
dence, that his conduct deserves reproach. All
innocent, virtuous man will commonly befhield
edby his innocence and virtue. He will not be
dangerously expofedto the /hafts of /lander while
his character is really unimpeachable. This
man may, for along time, poflefs excellent qua
lities without their ever being a subject of special
commendation. But let him once depart from a
fair, virtuous line of conduct, and I cannot war
rant he will long be exempt from reproof and in
vective. We cannot however infer, that praise
would not have been equally just, while he yet
was a good man, as blame is, after he becomes a
bad one. In short, though it is a plausible theory,
that there is, generally speaking, more truth in
satire than in panegyrick, it will nevertheless
not appear so, upon a ltrict examination. It i s on
ly true, that blame and reproach meet with a more
ready reception, and aflimilate better with the
usual feelings of people, than praise and applause.
As it has been before hinted, men will more
eagerly hunt down their enemies, than raise up
their friends. The emotions ofjealoufy, envy,
and hatred are pungent and irritating, and pro
duce a stronger control over the mincT, than the
operations of friendlhipand humanity, which are
ufiially tranquil and inefficacious. The unfriend
ly paflions have, in the natural constitution of
things, a very sadden and stimulating influence
over human actions. If the propriety of pane
gyric, bestowed 011 my friend, is called in ques
tion, I shall, no doubt, be disposed to vindicate
his character { but it may still be impossible to con
vince an ill-natured, envious man,that he is bound
to pay any regard, either to the panegyrick it
felf, or to my comments upon it. When my enemy
meets with reproach, I shall scarce haveoccafion
to bring arguments to condemn hiin. Mankind
easily believe the report of his unworthy actions,
because they are predisposed to believe it. He
probably is, in fait, a bad man, or he probably
had not been my enemy. I cannot however
imagine that panegyrick has generally less truth
than satire, merely because the latter ltieets with
. more attention and credit than the former.
ANECDOTE.
MPv. MORLAU, fir ft Fhyftcian to the Ducliefs
of Burgundy, going one day, we know not for
what purpose, to the Prince's with a sword, was
jocose upon his adjustment, and said, " Monfeig
neur, do not you think I resemble Capt. Si'ez
zaferro, ofthe Italian comedy?" It is inipolli
ble to resemble him less," answered the Prince,
" Spezzaferro never killed any b-)dy
SATURDAY, November 14, 1739.
Portsmouth, October 31, 1789.
IMPROMPTU 011 the approach of THE PRESI
DENT of the United States.
FAME fttetch'd her wings,and with her trumpet bleu*,
Great WASHINGTON, is near : —What praise ha due !
What Title (hall he have ; She pauf'd and said,
Not one ; his name alone strikes every Title dead.
ADDRESSES TO THE PRESIDENT.
Salem, Nov. 3, 1739.
ADD RE SS oj the Inhabitants of the Town of Salon,
to the PRESIDENT cf the United States.
S I R,
r I 1 HE Inhabitants of the Town of Salem, upon
J- receiving a visit from a personage the firlt
objecftot their esteem, cannot forbear exprefling
those sensations, which an occasion so pleasing
must naturally excite. While we view it as an
high honor done us, a molt obliging mark of
condescension and regard shewn us, in making
us this visit ; nioft readily would we manifeftthe
fatisfatftion we feel, in being gratified with an
opportunity of feeing the man, whose deeds have
been so illustrious ; and of paying our particular
refpe&s to the character, which not only the peo
ple of America, but all the world are agreed to
admire and celebrate. How great Sir,
we had conceived our obligations to be, and how
ftrongfoever the motives of attachments we were
under to you, for those military ferv'ices and at
chievemehts, from which such essential benefits
have been derived, an addition to those obligati
ons we are sensible is now made ; andftill further
reasons of attachment are presented, from your
acceptance of that important trust in our newly
instituted government, which was so earnestly,
and univerlally desired. That remarkable spirit
of patriotifin, of benevolence towards this peo
ple, which has been so ctmfpicuous in your past
condu<fl, -we doubt not has determined you to
this arduous undertaking.—Whatever therefore
may contribute to the ease and happinefsof your
administration, whatever returns of refped, and
dutiful submission, it becomes a grateful people
to make, we with you to receive and enjoy.
Long may you be continued,diffufing those bles
sings of freedom and good government, by which
our prosperity fliall be further promoted—Long
may you be indulged a series of the best fatisfac
tions, which the honors and enjoyments of this
world can afford. And by that Almighty Beino-,
whose agency and aid you have ever acknowledg
ed, in events you have been improv
ed to accomplish, with distinguished honors and
felicities may you finally be rewarded.
THE ANSWER.
GENTLEMEN,
WOULD words exprels the feelings of my
heart, I should have the happiness to de
monstrate to my fellow citizens of Salem, that
their afTedionate address is received with grati
tude, and returned with sincerity—To your good
ness I refer myfelf for a just conftrurtion of
thoughts which language will not explain.
Honored by the high, yet hazardons, appoint
ment which my country has conferred upon me,
it will be my best ambition to discharge its im
portant trusts with fidelity—for the reft I must
cast myfelf upon her candor, and kind indulgence.
Towards you, Gentlemen, permit me to afTure
you, I entertain every disposition that is due to
your virtue—and the promotion of yourinterefts
will be among the molt grateful of my employ
ments.
From your own industry and enterprize you
have every thing to hope that deserving men and
good citizens can expert.
May your navigation and commerce flourifh—
your industry, in all its applications, be reward
ed your happiness, here, be as perfed as be
longs to the lot of humanity— and your eternal
felicity be complete !
G. WASHINGTON.
Salem, October 29, 1789.
Newburyport, Nov. 4, 1789.
Soon after The Prelident's arrival in this town,
he wasprefented with the following address.
To Th > PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
SIR,
7HEN, by the unanimous fufTrages of your
VV countrymen, you were called to preside
over their public councils, the citizens of the town
of Newburyport participated in the general joy,
that arose from anticipating an administration,
conduded by the man, to whose wisdom and va
lor they owed their liberties.
Pleasing were their refledions, that he, who,
by the bletfing of Heaven, had given them their
Independence, would againrelinquifh the felici
ties of domestic retirement, to teach them its jufl
value.
{TMiJhed On IV ednefday and Saturday .j
riiey have feenyou, victorious, leave the field,
followed with tlse auplaufcs of a grateful coun
try —and they now fee you entwining tlie Olive
I with the Laurel, and, in peace, giving security
and happiuefs to a people, whom in war, you co
vered with glory.
Ar the present moment,they indulge themselves
in sentiments of joy, resulting from a principle,
perhaps lei's elevated, Luc, exceedingly dear to
their hearts, from a gratiiication of their affediion,
in beholding personally among them, the friend,
the benefactor, and the father of their country.
They cannat hope, Sir, to exhibit any peculiar
marks of attachment to your person ; for, could
they express their feelings of the most ardent and
sincere gratitude, they would only repeat the
sentiments, which are deeply iinprefled upon the
hearts of all their fellow-citizens ; but, in jullice
to themselves, they beg leave to aflure you, that,
in 110 part of the United States, are those senti
ments ofgratituda»and afFedtion more cordial ancl
animated, than in the town, \vhich, at this time,
is honored with your presence.
Long, Sir, may you continue the ornament and
support of these States, and may the period be
late, when you ihall be called to receive a reward,
adequate to your virtues, which it is not in the
power of your country to bellow.
To the foregoing Addrcfs, the President was pleased to reply as
follows:
To th: Citizens of the Town of Newbury port.
GENTLEMEN,
THE demonflratiohs of and affeiflion
which you are pleased to pay to an indivi
dual, whofehighefl pretension is to rank as your
fellow-citizen, are of a nature too diltinguWhed
not to claim the warmell return that gratitude
can make.
My endeavors to be ufeful to my country have
been no more than the result of conscious duty.
Regards, like yours, would reward services of the
highefl eftiination and facrifice : Yet, it is due to
my feelings, that I should tell you those regards
are received with esteem, and replied to With sin
cerity.
In visiting the town of Newburyport, I haveo
beyed a favorite inclination, and I am much gra
tified by the indulgence. In exprefling a sincere
vvifh for its prosperity, and the happiness of its
inhabitants, I do jullice to my own sentiments,
and their merit. G. WASHINGTON.
LONDON, September 7.
SWEDES and RUSSIANS.
ATranfa<ftion which has lately taken place be
tween the King of Sweden and his adversaries
in Finland, may probably in its consequences an
nihilate those distinctions it has been so much the
object of all civilized nations to eftabliih ; distinc
tions which have been found to lefi'en the hor
rors of war, whilst not one national advantage has
been lofl by extending kindness to those brave
men, who cease to be enemies the moment they
are prisoners.
A Ruffian officer was taken prisoner at
to whom his Swedilh Majesty wiffied to give his
parole ; and he was desirous at the fame time of
shewing some civility to the Prince Labanoff, Col.
of the regiment, to which the captive belonged,
he ordered Baron Kliiigfporre, his aid-de-camp
general, to write a polite letter to the Prince, and
fend back the officer on his parole. This was
done on the 20th of July. A trumpet, accom
panied by aSwediffi officer, conducted the Ruffian
prisoner. Arrived at the advanced polls of the
enemy, the trumpet founded, and they hailed ;
but the only answer they received was, the double
discharge of arquebulles from the Coflacs and
ChafTeurs, and notwithstanding a second found
ing of the trumpet, thefignal of truce, the firing
was continued. The officers and the trumpet
were obliged to retire and return.
The King was still at Hogsfors, to whom they
gave an account of the reception of his trumpet.
His Majesty, supposing that so strange a condudl
could be owing only to the usual licentiousness
of the barbarous and undisciplined hords who
compose the light troops of the Ruffian army, and
that even their own officers could not restrain
them, ordered Baron de Klingfporr, to write a
letter to the Prince de Naflau, who commanded
the Ruffian squadron, then stationed off Frede
rickffiam, to inform him of what had happened,
and to fend his letter to Prince Labanoff through
thatchanel ; persuaded that with an officer like the
Prince de Nassau, he had no reason to fear the
violation of the laws of war.
The Baron a(fted according to his directions ;
and as the Prince de Naflau was personally known
to the King, his Majesty added a complimentary
postscript to the letter, in his own hand writing.
The Princc thought himlelf under the necefiisyof referring the letter to the Commander in Chief,
Count Mufchin Pufcliin, and therefore returned
verbal compliments to the King, at the time.
Nine clays after, however, in return for his Ma
jelly's politeness and attention, he received a
very lingular letter, or inanifefto, written by
Count Mufchin Pufchin, containing very severe
animadrerfions 011 the coiulud: of the King of
Sweden ; but giving no fatisfa&ion refpeeting
tiie violation of the laws of war.
At the Allembly of the Academie Francoife,
held on St. Louis, day, the prize of poetry was ad
judged to M. de Fontanes, for a poem 011 the
Edidt in favor of the French Protestants. A cou
plet, which related to M. Neckar, was received
with unbounded applause—
Qj/e/es caviplots des cours out trois joh exile,
Et que le voce publica trois fois retelle.
It will aftonilh those who are acquainted with
the factions that have divided the French literati,
that the fubjetft proposed by the fame learned bo
dy, for their prizes of eloquence next year, is
the Eulogy of Jean Jacques Roulleau.
Among those who lpoketothe proposition of M.
Neckar 011 the new Loan, a Deputy of the No
blelle (vvhofe name is not mentioned) proposed
to give up the half of his estate for some years
to come, to the public wants.
A FRENCH NATIONAL FETE
Is now the general wifli. "In fact, is there a
People on earth who deserve it better ?
The following is the proposed arrangement
for the capital :
All the inhabitants of the city of Paris to lay
out their tables public, and take their repalt be
fore their refpeiTtive houses. The rich and the
poor shall mingle, and no diftimftion of ranks
appear 011 that happy anniversary. The llreets
ornamented with tapellry, and every other pos
sible decoration. The National Guard to be dis
persed through the city for the preservation of
order. '1 he entire capital, forming one immense
family, will present a million of persons, leated,
as it were, at the fame table. The ceremony of
drinking to the King's health, lhall be announc
ed by a general difchargc of 100 cannon, and
take place at the fame moment in every part of
Paris.
In confequencc of the firft fruits (annates) be
ing fupprefled in one of the national resolutions
of the 4th of Augull,tlie Pope's Nuncio dispatch
ed a metlenger, on Thursday lalt, to Kome,
with the news of this fatal decision. Previous
thereto, this Minister had presented a memorial
to the Allembly, in which he represented, that
the duties 011 firft fruits, dispensations, &c. a
mountedonly to 350,000livres annually ; he like
wise intimated his fears, that the Court of Rome,
being no longer restrained by this small tribute,
might throw the trade of the country into the
hands of the Englilh ; but this consideration has
had no weight.
Among other reforms proposed in the Nati
onal Allembly, it has been moved to have the right
of fer.ority fupprefled, viz. That all children
Should have an equal division of the paternal es
tate ; this motion has been referred to a private
committee.
THE TOUR.
SALE M, November 3.
WE recollect no event that has ever taken place
in this country, which has had so universal
an effect in calling forth those finer feelings of thfc
heart, which constitute the molt pleasing part of
human nature, as the present Tour of the PRE
SIDENT of the United States. To behold the
man, whom Heaven has been pleased to make the
inftrunient, both in a civil and military capacity,
of our political falyation—the man, who, to the
qualities of a great Soldier and Statesman, joins
every amiable virtue and accomplifhinent which
can adorn a private itation—in lhort, to fee GE
NERAL WASHING I ON, appeared to be the lalt,
the fondeft wifli of every man, woman and child,
and the gratification ofthatwifh inspires but one
uniform fentiment—from every mouth we hear
the fame expretlions, of his virtues, his benignity,
his kind and paternal care of the Great Family
over which he presides.
At one o'clock, the inhabitants aflembled in
Court Street, and formed a Proceifion, under the
directions of the Marshals for the day ; and, pre
ceded by a Band of Music, were conducted to the
welt end of the Main Street.
The military were formed in Federal Street,
under the command of Brig. Gen. Filk—Captain
Brown's Horse on the right! then the Salem Ca
dets, Capt. Saunders ; Salem artillery, Captain
Lieutenant Hovey ; Ift regiment, Col. Abbot; sth
regiment, Col. Breed.
The Prefilent's arrival at the bounds of Salem,
(where he was received by the Committee of ar
rangements) was announced by a federal discharge
from the fort, and another from the Artillery in
Federal Street. Here he quitted his carriage,
and .mounted a beautiful white horse. Ou his
nearer approach, the bells began and continued
ringing for 15 minutes. The committee conduct
ed liiai to the line of troops, who falutcd him as
lie palled ; and when he came on the left of the
line, the firings of the artillery and musketry took
place.
From Federal Street he proceeded to the Main-
Street, where the escort coming to open order,
he parted through the avenue, and was received
by the Selectmen, at the head of the PROCES
SION, which then moved on in the following or
der : Salem Cadets.
Music.
Selectmen.
Sheriff of Eflex County, on horseback.
Marlhal of Mallachufetts District, on horseback.
THE PRESIDENT, on horseback,
Attended by Major Jackson, his Secretary.
Overseers of the Poor.
Town-Treasurer and Town-Clerk.
School Committee.
Magistrates and Lawyers.
Clergy.
Physicians.
Merchants and Traders.
Marine Society. Masters of Vefiels.
Revenue Officers.
Continental and Militia Officers.
Strangers.
Mechanicks.
Seamen.
Laborers.
The several Schoolmasters, each at the head of
his own Scholars.
The Front of the Procession having reached
the Court-House, the President was conducted by
the Selectmen and Committee into the balcony,
where he paid his ref'peCts to the innumerable
crowd who prefled to fee him—immediately the
air rang with their acclamations—he was then
falutecl with an Ode, adapted to the occasion, by a
select choir of fingers in a temporary gallery, co
vered with rich Persian carpets, and hung with
damaflc curtains. After which, he received the
affectionate address of the town, to which he re
turned a kind and elegant answer. The Cadets
then escorted him to his residence in Washing
ton Street ; after which, they fired a salute, and
having received the thanks of the President by his
Secretary, for their services, were difmifled.
At dark, the Court-House was beautifully il
luminated, and made a rnoft elegant appearance.
The disposition of the lights did credit to theper
fon who superintended this business.
In the evening there was a brilliant Artembly
at Concert Hall, which the President honored
with his presence. As he came from the door
to his carriage, 13 beautiful rockets appeared at
once in the air, and 13 others when he alighted
at the door of the Hall—thefeliad amoft pleafiiig
effect. When he retired from the
which was at an early hour, the fame compli
ment was again paid him.
The President appeared to be perfectly fatis
fied with every thing which took place. He de
clared to those who attended him, that he want
ed words to express his gratitude for the atten
tions he had received. He was particularly gra
tified by the military exhibition—spoke handsome
ly of the appearance of the militia, and of their
firings—ofthp Artillery, whose conduct was
highly applauded—and parted some very flatter
ing compliments on the Cadets (which is un
doubtedly the best disciplined light corps in the
United States) who acted as his escort, and were
therefore more immediately under his observa
tion. He was highly delighted with the com
pany at the Hall in the evening—the numbers
and brilliancy of the ladies far exceeded his ex
pectation.
Friday morning, about 9 o'clock, the President
fat off 011 his journey ealhvard, escorted by Capt.
Ofgood's and Capt. Brown's horse, and accom
panied by many refpecftable gentlemen. To gra
tify the people, he rode out of town on horseback.
Essex Bridge was beautifully drefled with the flags
of different nations ; and the cavalcade passed it
free of toll. In Ipswich, the President parted
Col. Wade's regiment which was under arms
He arrived at Newburyport about 3 o'clock, in
the afternoon, where he was received in a very
l-efpecftful manner : The inhabitants formed a
decent procession—the military were under arms
—an address was presented by the town fire
works were displayed in the evening, and the joy
of the inhabitants was extreme—and their hospi
tality equal to their joy—for all who came into
the town on the occasion, man and beast, were
provided for gratis.
Saturday morning the President fat off for
Portsmouth. He reached the bounds of New-
Hampshire, aboutteii o'clock, where he dismount
ed and politely took leave of his escort ; then,
parting through them, was received by the First
Magistrate of Newhamp/hire, at the head of about
300 cavalry, accompanied by many public and
private characters. They then proceeded 011 ra
pidly for Portsmouth, where we underftancl great
pi epai ations had been made by the inhabitants
to demonstrate their love and veneration for the
President of the United States.
Long may this great and good man be contin
ued a blessing to America in particular—and may
his exemplary virtues promote the happiness of
mankind at large !
When he had parted Eflex bridge he rl,r,„
ed, and returned to the draw
chanifm, which was raised for that purpose
As he pafled thro Beverly, he vifitedthe Cotton
Manufactory in that place. He was ihewn i„ ?
lower story, a jenny of 84 spindles, upon'Xl
some of the manufacturers were spinning warn
and 3 or 4 other jennies, upon which thev wer
fpinnmg weft ; and about a dozen looms, U n 0 ,
which .hey were weaving cotton denim, thickfer
corduroys, velveret, &c. In the middle story J-,
seen a roping jenny of 42 spindles ; and a machine
011 which a person usually doubles and twiftj i
a day, a cotton warp of 50 yards. I n the u .
story were exhibited the buiinefs of carding
warping, and cutting; and in a contiguous build!
ing, that of drefling 011 the st o ve. The who'e
evincing such proofs of industry, ingenuity and
improvement, as afforded that illustrious Patron
of the arts (who was himfelf clothed in a sui t
American manufacture) the highell fatisfaction
The quantity of goods made there, amount,'
according to information, to about 10,000 yard;'
These goods are mostly of a coarse fabric-the
firft eflays of our countrymen in learning th
art—but they havebeen found by frequent trials
to be remarkably ftrongand durable—those lately
woven will probably be equally handsome with
foreign manufacture of that kind, and superior
in every other refpe<ft.
NEWBURYPORT, November 4.
Friday last the beloved PRESIDENT or the
UNITED STATES made his entry into this town;
and never did a person appear here, who more
largely shared the affettion and esteem of its citi
zens—He was escorted here by two companies of
cavalry, from Ipswich and Andover, Marihal Jack
son, the High Sheriff of the county of Eflex, the
Hon. Triftain Dalton, Esq. Major General Tit
comb, and a number of other officers, as well as
several gentlemen from this and the neighboring
towns.—On his drawing near, he was" saluted
with r 3 discharges from the artillery ; after which
a number of young gentlemen placed themselves
before him, and fang as follows :
HE comes! He comes ! the He ro comes 1
Sound, found your trumpets, beat, beat, your drums:
From port to port let cannons roar,
He's welcome to New-England 's,fhore,
Wclcoine, welcome, welcome, welcome,
Welcome to New-England's, shore :
Prepare ! prepare ! your songs prepare !
Loud ! loudly rend the echoing air :
Prom pole to pole, his praise resound,
For virtue is with glory crown'd.
Virtue, virtue, virtue, virtue,
Virtue is with glory crown'd!
The lines in the firft verse, which call for the
beating of drums and roaring of cannon, were
instantly obeyed after the pronunciation of each
word ; and to the vocal was joined all the instru
mental music in both choruses, which were re
peated :—Then THE PRESIDENT, preceded by
the several companies of militia and artillery of
this town, the musicians, Seledi-men, High She
riff, and Marshal Jackson, palled the Ministers,
Physicians, Lawyers, Magillrates, Town-officers,
Marine Society, Tradesmen and Manufacturers,
Captains of veflels, Sailors, School-masters, with
their Scholars, &c. &cc. who had paraded and o
pened on the right and left for that purpose; each
of whom as the President pafled, cfofed and join
ed the proceflion, which was terminated by about
420 scholars, ail with quills in their hands, head
ed by their preceptors. Their motto, " IVetrt
the free born fubjetts of the United States."
After the PRESIDENT had arrived at the house
prepared for his reception, a feu-de-joy was fired
by the several companies of militia ; and in the
evening foine fire-works and excellent rockets
were played off opposite thereto. Much praise is
due to the citizens off New bury port, and others,
aflembled on the occasion, for their orderly bt
haviour through the day and evening.
Saturday morning the PRESIDENT fat outfof
Portsmouth under the fame escort which conduc
ed him to this town, to which were added a large
number of military and other gentlemen of New
buryport, who accompanied him to the line »•
New-Hampshire, where he was met by his Excel
lency General Sullivan, President of the State ot
New-Hampshire, with four companks of lig' lC
horse, who conducted him to Portsmouth.
The PRESIDENT pafled through thetownsof
Amefbury and Salisbury, where several compa
nies of militia were paraded, which saluted as he
pafled. ,
The Marine Society of this town prepared an
decorated a handsome barge, for the purpose o
carrying the PRESIDENT across Merrimack river
which was previously sent (commanded by one
of tliefociety) opposite to Aniefbury ferry, wheie
it waited his arrival. The barge-men were -
drefled in white.
On the PRESIDENT'S crofling the river a
Amefbury, he was paid, by Capt. JofephA-
Murrietta, ofTeneriffe, the salute of his - sat '""
[21 guns] his fliip being elegantly drefled. .
cannot but admire, among the many ainia
traits in the PRESIDENT'S character, that ofin
polite n eft to foreigners, which was repeatt 1
this occasion.FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. EDITOR,
I LATELY received a letter from an inhabitant of the planet
Jupiter, written in the ancient Hebrew language, which I
have carefully translated into English, as literally as the different
idioms of thofc languages will admit. Since the writer seems de
iirous to establish a correspondence, I wish you topubliftithis let
ter, if not inconsistent with the plan of youi ufeful and inftru£tive
Gazette; and I would request some one, who has more leisure
and greater abilities to answer it. Should an answer appear in
your paper, I will undo take that it lhall be immediately trans
lated into Hebrew and transmitted without delav to the planet Ju
piter ; and I doubt not but a correspondence may be kept up,
which will be ufeful to mankind.
To one of the INHABITANTS of the EARTH, if any there be.
Brother Existence,
AM I right in my conjecture ? Is that little world, the
Earth, inhabited ? If so, I am desirous to know by what kind of
beings .This is therefore to request thee,O being, into wliofe hands
this may fall, that thou wouldeftjgive unto me a true account of
thy race. Tell me, O inhabitant ofthe third planet, whothou art.—
I suppose thou haft a body—ls it made of fire, mud, or water ;or
is it only consolidated finoke ? No doubt all ye inhabitants of
the earth, how many soever there be, sprang from the one only
Great : but when did ye begin toexift? Knoweft thou, O being,
thine origin ? If thou haft a spirit within thee, how dost thou
ieed it ? Are the funnels of thy foul continually open, to receive
the streams of knowledgefrom the full bottles of nature? Hasthe
#reat Auleeim given the a fine (trainer, through which thou mayeft
itrain thy foul's good ? or dost thou pour in the scum, and lees all
together ? Art thou Ifcppy, or art thou in the scouring tub of
affli&ion ? 1 know not what to ask of thee, or how to ask : left
ihou fhouldft not be able to c >mprehend my words. Epiftolize
xinto me, O being; that I may know what to call thee. Lift up
now thine eyes if thou haft any, and fee : Let the all piercing raysjof
truth dispel the mist whichperadventure darkeneth the eyes of thy
loul; that thou mayeft understand. That world on which thy race
dwelleth receiveth light from yonder blazing Sun, kindled by the
breath of the Eternal; but do not think for thy wot id only, for
ours also. Great Jupiter, where I, with innumerable millions
dwell, from the famefountain receiveth light; and from the fame
source, existence. Seeft thou this magnificent world ? Pcrad
venture thou fecft, but belicveft not in its greatness, and the my
riads of beings that dwell here. Know then that from one dwel
ling on the great planet Jupiter thou received this : Unto him,
therefore direffc thy epistle ; and let him know what thou art, and
what thou knoweft. If ye, O sons of the earth, know more than
we, inftrutt us ; for knowledge it> the pillarof happiness, and the
lupport of immortality ; if less ye havedrankof Nature's fathotn-
Jt'fs ocean, from us, then receive an additional stream, and an
swer the irqueft of JOVICULARIS.
NATIONAL MONITOR. Mo. XXVI.
Say not thou, what is the cause that the former days were better
than these ? for thou dost not enquire wiicly concerning this.
Solomon.
PASSION, rather than Rfason, is the source
of com plaint—" The golden age, is never
the present age"—hut a little attention to the ex
perience of mankind mud convince every person,
that as on the one hand, no age of the world is
exempted from trouble—so on the other, some
peculiar circumstances fhewthat liappinefs is not
confined ro any particular period. Mankind are
so apt to be more affected with pain than pleasure,
that present inquietudes excite clamors and com
plaints, while in contemplating ilie/><j/?,the finootli
current of enjoyment only, employs our imagi
nations.
Human exiflence is full of inequalities : One
age exceeds a former in one relpect, and falls be
low a succeeding, in another : But; whatever the
fancies of the poet may imagine, or the uneasy
temper of thereftlefsmay conceive of former gol
den eras, certain it is that no man now exijliiig
regrets that he was not born a thousand years
ago. A flight retrofpec't of puft ages will lerve
to ftlence a spirit of complaint; and their com
panion with the present will serve to lhew that
the condition of civilized humanity is unspeaka
bly more eligible than it was at any preceding
date. Under the null celebrated system of go
vernment among the ancient Greeks, their le
gislators encouraged thieving.
Alexander's prodigality has never been paralel
led. The stun which he expended on Hephwjlion's
tuneral was so great that 'tis a question whether
at that time the revenue of the world could afford
it: And what were his vitftories, but the progress
of a madman through the world, more terrible
than a host of wild bealls. What a liit of crimes
disgrace the Jewish liiltory ! What punifliments
did their cruelty invent, and inHitft upon their
captives ! If we advert to the Roman Empire,
even in its meridian splendor, while fovercigns
of the world, will the comparison fuffer ? Under
Titus, that was for the fwcernefs of his disposi
tion cried up, by the Roman people, as the 'jewel
of the World, 50operf'ons were daily crucified be
lorethe walls of Jerulaleiii, during the hotted of
the siege of that devoted city.—The devaluations,
persecutions, robberies, murders, and miseries
brought upon mankind by the proud mistress of
the world, are not to be equalled by any subse
quent tranfaAions : Licinius Luctillus put 20000
prisoners to the fvvord, contrary to the articles
of capitulation ; and the unjustly celebrated Ati
gujlus, was an inhuman butcher, who at one time
m Perufia, facrificed 500 of the principal citizens
at the altar of his uncle Julius Ctefar —His maila
cres and proscriptions have rendered his name
julHy execrable. Sylla took 24000 of the conquer
ed party to mercy; but not willing to trull them
afterwards, in the hearing of the Senate, cut them
to pieces. But it is impolEble to detail all their
cruelties, which were not confined to a particu
lar spot— the whole world felt the weight of their
power.
The infatiabh avarice of former ages outwent,
ifpoflible, their cruelty. Accufatious were not
tor crimes, but for wealth: Neither persons,
towns, or temples escaped this rapacity. Marcus
Antoninus, in one year, railed from the Lelier
Alia only 20000 talents, an amazing sum ! Their
luxury, theirgluttony, intemperance, anddebau
chery, were carried to a height of refinement that
we can scarcely form any idea of. If we descend
to succeeding times, how wretched was the fate
of mankind during the dark ages of bigotry
and superstition, which followed the downfall of
the Roman Empire ? How many did the jaws of
persecution devour, for even a supposed differ
ence of opinion. How debased and funk was hu
man nature, when the fiat of a priest, gave law
to States and Empires ! Surely those who fay the
former times were better than the present, do not
enquire wifely concerning these things. Igno
rance was the fruitful source of all those cala
mities. How powerful lliould fucli examples
prove to these States, to induce them to diffufe
the rays of knowledge among the people ? For
mer tyrannies were founded on pre-existing ig
norance. America muftlofe her information be
fore she can be enslaved : While she remains en
lightened she ever will be free.
NEW-YORK, NOVEMBR 14.
Yesterday, at one o'clock, THE PRESIDENT
of the United States returned to this city in per
fect health, from his tour thro the Eastern States.
This event was announced by a federal falure
from the Battery.
THE PRESIDENT left Portfmoutli last week
on Wednesday—his rout was thro Exeter, Haver
hill, Lexington, IVatertown, ire. to Hartford.
There is a variety of incidents that attend the
tour of the President, which mu(t fill every patri
otic mind with peculiar plcafure: Independent of
that perfojial relpecfl which is paid to him as a
Man, there is an invariable reference in all the
addrefles, to his political situation, and that COll
- over whose administration he presides.
These national sentiments are universally reiter
ated^ — ant l plainly prove that the people are uni
ted in their hopes and expectations of public free
dom, peace and happiness from the general go
vernment.
I uf'day evening last the (Jommiflioners Plenipotentiary for
treating with the Nations df Indians, south of the river Ohio, re
turned to this city.
learn that Mr. M'Gillivray, who, with between one and
two thoufard Indians met the Commissioners at Rocklaijding,
declined acceding to the terms propolcd to him; but that all the
otnei Chiefs appeared extremely desirous of being at peace with
the United States.
Notwilhftanditig a Treaty has not been concluded with the
Creeks, vet the strongest allurances were given by Mr. M'Gilli
vray, arid all.lhe head men present, that no hoflilities should be
committed on the part of their Natiot. The Supreme Executive
of Georgia werealfo taking measures to prevent aggreflions or
provocations on the part of the inhabitants of the frontiers of that
State.
\\ e are happy to inform the public that all the other Nations
•)oi dcring on the southern States continue in perfect peace and am
ity with the United States. The Commiflioners sent friendly
lniflagei to all the Nations comprehended within the limits of
their comtninion. They saw Piomingo, the Chickafaw Chief,
Jt Richmond, in Virginiaj and delivered to him a fcopy of the talk
which they had previously f=nt to his nation.
On Wednesday last was held the annual meeting of the German
Society of tins city. An oration in the German language was de
livered on the occaflon, by Mr. Wi l m eidikg : Also an Englilh
oration by Mr. Edwa*d Li vi noston, at the Dutch Lutheran
Church. The fubjc&s were chosen .villi judgement; and the
speakers acquitted themselves to the full approbation of a nume
rous audience.
The time to pull down, and destroy, is now
P a st—As it was once dellgnative of the highest
patriotism to overturn those systems which were
tound incompatible with that Independence
which the United States had alfumed—fo now it
is equally their duty to build up, strengthen and
fupporta Constitution, with which is inseparably
connected all that is dear and valuable to us as ci
tizens and freemen. This sentiment appears to
pervade the minds of the people, and must
ibengtlien the hands, and encourage the hearts
of our civil rulers, while it inspires with pleasure
the hearts of every real friend to the United
States.
EXTRACT.
The serene atfts of beneficence—the small and
still voice of goodness are neither accompanied
by noise nor oftentation—lt is uproar and tumult,
rather the tumbling of fack'd cities—the Ihrieks
of ravilh'd matrons, and the groans of dying na
tions, that fill the t'ruinp of fame, and give birth
to your heroes. Men of power and ambition find
diftindtion and glory, very readily attainable in
this way—as it is incomparably more easy to de-
Itroy, than to create—to give death, than to give
i'fe—to pull down, than to bnild up—to bring
devastation and misery, rather than plenty, and
peace, and prosperity upon earth : But are not
mankind as blind to their own interelt, as unjust,
and iniquitous,in giving glory, where lhame alone
is due ? They are undoubtedly—for they hereby
become at once the dupes, and of their
own folly. Praifea child for his genius in pranks
of mifchief and malevolence, and you quicken
him in the dired: road to the gallows: It is just
so that this wife world has bred up its heroic re
probates, by ascribing honor and acclamation to
deeds that called loudly for execration, infamy,
and the gibbet.
PRICE CURRENT. NEW-YORK.
NOVEMBER 14.
Jamaica Spirits, ...
Antigua Rum, ... 4 yp_
St. Croix, do. - .
Country, do. - • 2/10.
Moinffes, - 9/2. a 2/3.'
Brandy, - - . 4/9. a 6/
Geneva, ... 5/
JJo. in calcs, - - 28/" a 29/r
Muicovado Sugar, - SoJ. a 72/.'
Loaf, do. - - .
Lump, do. - - ij\ 1
Pepper, ...
Pimento, ... 2 y" 2 . a 2 _/T
Coffee, - . 3/8. a 1/9.
Indigo, (Carolina) - - of a 6f %
Do. French, - - - x gr
Rice, - * * 23/:
Superfine Flour, - - 4a 44r
Common do. - - 2971 40/^
Rye do. 2 /r
Indian Meal, i . _ jg£
Rye, . " * pr. bujh.
Corn, (Southern) - *r
Do. (Northern,) ' - 4/3. a 4%"
Beef, fir ft quality, - . 48/ a w."
Pork, firft quality, . - Bi/o"
Oats, ... !/-"
Flax-feed, - - sj-
Ship bread per cwt. - . 2 i f.
Country refined bar-iron, . 281.030!.
Do. bldomery, . . i5 \. a i6l '_
Swedes do. ... ~1
RuOiado.
Pig-iron, - . 81 10 r a 9 j|
German steel, per lb. - . g,/
Nails American, by caflt. per. lb. 4d. - 12J.
Do. do. do. 6d. - . ll( j
Do. do. do. Bd. - -» qij
Do. do. do. lod.
Do. do. do* iad. f
Do. do. do. 2od f 72 a B£d.
Do. do. do, 24d. J
Pot ast, per ton, . 391. a 401.
Pcarl a(h > - - 481 a 50k
Bees-wax per lb. - „ 2
Mackaiel per barr. - - 2 6f. a 30/"
Herrings, - . -16/
Mahogany, Jamaica, per foot, - aorf.
Dominico, do. - gj
Honduras, do. - _ ~ yd'.
Logwood uncliipped. per ton. . . 81.
Do. chipped. - . - 141
2 inch white oak plank, perm. - . aol. iq/f
1 inch do. .
2 inch white pine plank, . - 81.
inch do. . . 61. joA
1 inch do. . . 3 1. 10/
2 inch pitch pine do. - . 10 ]
inch do. r . 61. io/T
1 inch do. 4 j^
Pitch pine scantling, - _ 8/T
Cyprus 2 feet Ihingles, - . 11. io/f
Do. 22 inch do. s jJ. gr
Cedar 2 inch do. . _ jJ_
Do. 22 inch do. . . j]_ gr
Do. 18. inch do. - . jgr
Butt white oak. staves, - - or /
Pipe do. do. . . - gl"
Hogshead do. do. - » 61. icf.
Do. do. heading, . .81
Iriih barrel do. staves, - - gl. r?
HogOicad red oak do. . . rl. ir
Do. French do. - f £
Hoglhead hoops, - »
White oak square timber per square foot, 1 od.
Red wood, per ton, . _ 2 gi
Fuftick, . . . j o] _'
Beaver, per lb. . . 12/. a 16?
Otter per Ikin, k . g f.
Grey fox,
Martin, 4/1 0
Racoon, . . . 3/6 "7/6.
Mufkrat, ... tod. a 14d
Beaver hats, - . . r
Castor do. - . _ _ oV
Chocolate, . . «£
Cocoa, " - 7Qf- a 80/.
Cotton, - - . 2 /g
Tar, pr. ■ . ,0/
Pitch, - - Jf
Turpentine, . s g J r
Tobacco, James River, - id a old
Do. York, - Id. a gL;
Do. Rappahanock, - - 2d a old.
Do. Maryland^coloured, . clj
Do. Weftern-Ihore, - - 3d a gid
Lead in pigs, pr cwt. - . g o r
Do. bars, . . - 68/7
Do. Shot, . . go/-
Red lead, . . _ gg'f
White do. dry, - _ G , r
White do. in oil, . _ 6 i 12 yj
Salt-petre hams, - _ \j
Spermaceti candles, - _ J
Mould do. - . ai. a 7i
Tallow dipt, . • - 9&.
r . * - id. a Id.
Caitile soap, - . ad. a lod
Fnglifh checfe, pr. Jb. . 9 Q
Country do. - . . .j
Butter, ... \ d r
"y font «, - - 11/ a l2 f.
Sequin do. - - 6/5
Sohea do. . . ,f' a
P infen «' " - 3f a 4 /6
Sta lc h Poland, - . J 4 ,y"
S"uff, . : If:
Allum fait, water measure, pr. bush. 3 /g*
Liverpool do. - . \r
Madeira wine, pr. pipe, - 60A a 90/]
Port, . .
L.fbon, pr . gal. . ."
Teneriff, 6 , . .
- -3h.
Dutch gnn-powder, pr. cwt. - 8/
Nail rods, pr. ton, - - 05/
Lintfccd oil, pr. gal. . . .r
Whale do. pr. barrel, - co/ a 5 6f.
spermaceti do, . - 6/
Shake-down hhds. . . gj£
ERRATA IN OUR LAST.
In the 25 tk line oj the Address of the Cincinnati to the Prejdent, for
virtue read virtues, and injert the uiotd again after the word them.
In the 3 6th line, for paternal read fraternal. And in the anficer, for
paternal read fraternaj. JMR. AD A MVS LETTERS.
LETTER X?
Amsterdam, Oct. 16, 1780.
SIR,
HE tenth head of inquiry is, " Ho~jj great
" is the force of America ? The number of men ?
" Thiir difciplinc, be. from the commencement of
" the troubles 1? Is there a good fuppty of war/ike
" flores ? Are these to be found partly or entirely in
" America? Or muji they be imported ?"
THE force of America consists of a regular ar
my, and of a militia: The regular army has
been various at different times. The firfl regu
lar army, which wus formed in April, 1 77J, was
enlilted for fix months only ; the next was en
lilted for one year ; the next for three years ;
the last period expired last February. At each of
these periods, between the expiration of a term
of enlistment, and the formation of a new army,
the Engliih have given themselves airs of triumph,
and have done l'ome brilliant exploits. In the
winter of 1775-6, indeed, they were in Boston;
and although our army, after the expiration of
the firft period of enlilhnent for fix months, was
reduced to a linall number, yet the Englilli were
not in a condition to attempt any thing. In the
winter of t 776-7, after the expiration of the se
cond term of enlistment, and before the new army
was brought together,, the inarched thro'
the Jellies. After the expiration of the laftterm
of enlistment, which was for three years, and
ended last January or February, the Engliih went
to their old exultations again, and undertook the
expedition to Charleftown. In thecourfe of the
last spring and fumnier, however, it seems the ar
my has been renewed ; and they are now enlilt
ed in general, during the war.
To Itate the num tiers of the regular army ac
cording to the establishment, that is, according to
the number of regiments at their full comple
ment, i suppose the continental army has iome
tiir.es amounted to fourfcore thousand men. But
the American regiments have not often been full,
any more than the Engliih. There arcinthewar
office at Philadelphia, regular monthly returns
of the army, from 1775 to this day, but lam not
able from memory, to give any accurate account
of them ; it is fulheient to fay, that the American
regular army has been generally superior to that
of the Engliih ; and it would not be good policy
to keep a larger army, unless we had a prospect
of putting an end to the Britilh power in America
by it. But this, without a naval superiority, is
■very difficult, if not impracticable : The Engliih
take pofleffion of a sea-port town, fortify it in the
strongest manner, and cover it with the guns of
their men of war, so that our army can not come
at it. If France or Spain fliould co-operate with
us so far as to fend fliips enough to maintain the
superiority at sea, it would not require many
years, perhaps not may months, to exterminate
the Engliih from the United States. But this po
licy those courts have not adopted, which is alit
tlefurprizing, because it is obvious, that by cap
tivating the Britilh fleet and army in America, the
inoftdecifivc- blow would be given to their power,
which canpoffibly be given in any quarter of the
globe.
What number of troops General Walhington
has at this time under his immediate command,
I am not able precisely to fay: I presume, how
ever, that he has not less than twenty thousand
men, befrdes the French troops under the Comte
de Rochambeau. Nor am J able to fay, how manj
General Gates has to the southward.
But belides the regular army, we are to consi
der the militia. Several of the colonies were form
ed into a militia, from the beginning of their set
tlement. After the commencement of this war,
all the others followed their example, and made
laws, by which all the inhabitants of America
are now enrolled in a militia, which may be com
puted at five hundred thousand men. But these
are Scattered over a territory of one hundred and
fifty miles in breadth, and at lealt fifteen hun
dred miles in length, lying all along upon the
fei.-coaft. This gives the Engliih the advantage,
by means of their superiority at sea, to remove
suddenly and eafilv from one part of the continent
to another, as from Boston to New-York, from
New-York to Rhode-Illand, from New-York to
Chefapeak or Delaware Bay, or to Savannah or
Cliarleftown, and the Americans the disadvan
tage, of not being able to march either the regu
lar army or the militia, to l'uch vast diltances,
without immense expence of money and time.
This puts it in the power of the Englilli to take
so many of our sea-port towns ; but not to make
any long and fuccefsi'ul marches into the interior
country, or make any permanent establishment
there.
As to discipline, in the beginning of the war
there was very little, either amongtlie militia or
the regular troops. The American officers have,
however, been industrious ; they have had the
advantage of reading all the books which have
any reputation, concerning military science ; they
have had the example of-their enemies, the Britifii
officers, before their eyes a long time, indeed
from the year 1768 ; and they have had the honor
of being joined by Britilh, German, French, Prof
fian,and Poiifli officers, of infantry and cavalry,
of artillery, and engineering; so that the art of
war is now as well understood in the American
army,and military discipline is now tarried to as
great perfection, as in any country whatever.
As to a supply of warlike (tores: sc vlie com
mencement of lioftilities, the Americans had nei
ther cannon, arms, or ammunition, but infuch
contemptible quantities asdiftrefledthem beyond
description ; and they have all alongbeen ftraiglit
ened, at times, byalcarcity of those articles, and
are to this day.
They have, however, at present, an ample field
artillery ; they have arms and powder ; and they
can never be again absolutely destitute, becaul'e
the manufactures of all forts of arms, of cannon
of all forts, of fait petre and powder, have been
introduced and eftabliihed. These manufactures,
although very good, are very dear, and it is very
difficult to make enough for so constant and lo
great a consumption. Quantities of these articles
are imported every year; and it is certain they
can be imported and paid for, by American pro
duce, cheaper than they can be made.
But the Ameri ans, to make their system per
fect, want five hundred thousand stands of arms,
that is, one at lealt for every militia man, with
powder, ball, and accoutrements in proportion.
This, however, is rather to be wiffied for than
expetfted. The French Fleet carried arms to A
merica : and if the communication between Ame
rica and France and Spain ffiould become more
frequent, by frigates and men of war, and espe
cially if this Republic ffiould be compelled into a
war with England, America will probably never
again fuffer much from the want of arms or am
munition.
The Engliffi began the war against the North
ern Colonies: Here they found the effects of anci
ent militia laws ; they found a numerous and har
dymilitia, who fought, and defeated them upon
many occasions. They then thought it neceflary to
abandon these and fall upon the middle Colonies,
whose militia had not been so long formed : How
ever, after several years experience, they found
they were not able to do any thing to thepurpofe
against them. They have lastly conceived the de
sign of attacking the Southern Colonies : Here the
white people, and consequently the militia, are nol
so numerous, and have not yet been ufeil to war :
here therefore, they have had foine apparent fuc
cefles; but they will find in the end their own
deftrucfiion in these very fuccefles. The climate
will devour their men ; their firft fuccefles will
embolden them to raffi enterprises ; the people
there will become inured to war, and will finally
totally cleftroy them : For as to the si lly gasconade
of bringing the Southern Colonies to submis
sion there is not even apoflibility of it. The peo
ple of those States are as firm in principle, and as
determined in their tempers, against the designs
of the Englilh, as (he Middle or Northern States.
1 have the hoHor to be, &c.
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
ANECDOTE.
CROMWELL sent his Excellency Lockh art
to France, with the title of Ambaflador,
where he was received with all the honors due
to his rank. One day the old Marffial Villeroy,
Governor to Louis XIV. asking this Engliffiman
why Cromwell, instead of taking the title of Pro
testor, had not got hiinfelf declared King. " Mon
sieur," replied Lockliart, " we know the extent
of the prerogatives of a, King, and limit them
accordingly; but we are ignorant of those of a
Protestor."—Lockhart was right; new titles are
neceflary to new power.
NEW-YORK, November 14, 1789.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sett. 19, 1 789.
A STATEMENT of the. ANTICIPATION o/MO
NIES on the Public Credit, by the late Commis
sioners of the Board of Treasury, on the nth of
September, I 789.
THE Register hav ing accurately stated the account of warrants,
drawn by the late Commifiioners of the Board of Treasury
on the Trcafurer of the United States, and having examined the
amount of monies attually received by the said Treasurer, certifies,
that the excess of warrants drawn beyond the said Treasurer's
a&ual receipts, amounts to the sum of one hundred eighty
nine thpufand, nitie hundred and fix dollars, thirty-four nine
tieths. Dollars, 189,906 38-iooths.
Of this sum thus anticipated on the public credit,
34,657 67 Warrants have been ifTued tothe Officers of the ci
. nd vil lift on account of their salaries for the year 1789:
2 5>575 34 Ditto in payment for cloathing and rations, and
is a part of the sum estimated by the Secretary
of the War Department, for pay, cloathing, ra
tions, and other expenses of the army eftablilh
mcnt, for the year 1789 :
129,673 27 Ditto, to Contra&ors for Provisions, Indian Trea
ties, and for other ferviccs of the United States.
189.906 38
With refpe£t to this last sum of 129,673 27
the Regiflcr observes, That there remained in the
hands of the Receivers of Taxes at the date of
their lad refpt&ive settlements at the treasury, cer
tain balances which the CommifTioners of the late
Board of Treasury have since drawn for, in favor
of the Treasurer, and vvould appear as having been
paid by them, had their Accounts been rendered
tothe 1 ith September, 1789.
It is prefumcd therefore, that the Anticipatioa
will be. IciTencd, the amount of thpfe balances
bcin S 30.260 10
Dollars, 09*113 17
Til- rf will tinn remain to be provided foi (Ufiilts tut
pations lor the Civil Lift ai d War Uepartmetit, aforc-mcr.it'V
cd) the fnm q! ninety-nine thouland, four hundred, anc
dollars, twenty.fix hundredths. It is presumed no'po'.hliie in"?
ry c.in arifeto the public by making this provision; bccaufcth'
Trealuiers-accounts, and the accounts of the Receivers ofT °
will undergo examination by the prrfent officers of the Treat,,?
when any furpl.tffage beyond such particular grant which Con'
greiima) be plcaftd to make, will be duly Oiewn
JOSEPH NOURSE, R cg , ft „
ESTIMATE of the AMOUNT o/PENSIONS for
the INVALIDS. 1
TAKEN from Returns, dated D O H,
March 7th, 1789, New-Hampshire, 3>'"o '
March 7th, 1789, Malfachufctts, 7,6991,
May 24th, 1789, Connecticut,
Jan. ill, 1789, New.York, 1
Feb. zd, 1789, New-Jersey, . g
July s th, 1786, Pennsylvania, 11,22030
For >787, Virginia, 9,27663
Conjeftuial. f Suppose Rhode-Iflar.d and)
Delaware nearly equal to£ 3,170
States from New-Hatqfhire. }
which there are <j Maryland equal to Connect. fay 7,000
no Returns. N.Carolina, S.Carolina and )
Georgia, nearly equal to N. > 27,200
York, N. Jerfeyand Connec. )
96,017 81
War-Office of the UniteiStates, Sept. iyth, 1789.
, (Signed) H. KNO X.
To the Honorable the Secretatv of the)
Treasury of//(eUnited States, j
Copy of the original on file,
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Triajury.
THE Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the
order of the Ho.ife, of the 23d of September, 1789, refpe£lful
ly submits the settlement therein required, together with one of
the whole Anticipation 011 the Taxes made by the late Superin
tendant of Finance, at the time of resigning his office ; 011 which,
a balance appears due 01 93,463 29-goths. dollars.
This debt has constantly been considered on the part of the
United States, as an actual specie claim ; and nothing but the low
(late of theTreafury, has hitherto prevented the Claimants under
it from receiving the fame payment, as appears to have been
made to other creditors of the fame class. 11 may be further pro
per to observe, that the chief part of the balance above Hated, wn
intended to have been paid trom the specie quota, due from the
State of New-York, but that the said State have discharged the
whole sum in specie, due on former requisitions ; and the moniei
arising therefrom, having been applied to the more prefling,ge
neral exigencies of the union, the claimants have now no otter
profpeft of relief, but what mav be derived from "the National
Treasury. ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Tree/try.
September 25th, 1789.
STATE of the ANTICIPATION of the TAXES
' by the Superintendaht of Finance.
ON T William Whipple, receiver for the State of Dol. ffitk.
New-Hampshire—
For an order in favor of Major-General Sullivan^
dated the 24th January, 1784. 1,300
Ditto Brigadier-General Mojes Hazen, dated the
Janiiary, 1784, 2,88772
Ditto Capt. Olivie, dated 6th March, 17841 406 26
Ditto Capt. Philip Leibert, ditto, 105 17
Ditto Lieut. Germame Dienne, ditto, 85
Ditto Capt. Anthony Selin, Bth ditto, 219 5
On James Lovell, Receiver for the State of Mas
sachusetts—
For an Order in favor of John Langdon, Conti
nental Agent at Portsmouth, dated the 4th of Au
juft, 1784, 5,000
Ditto Timothy Pickering, Quartcrmafter-General,
iated the 30th September, 1784, s> oco
On George Olney, Receiver for the Stateof Rhode
[fland—
For an Order in favor of Timothy Pickering,
Quartermaster-General, dated the 30th of Septem
ber, 1784, 3> 000
On Hezekiah Merrill, Receiver for the State of
Connecticut—
For an Order in favor of Timothy
termafter-Gencral, dated the 30th of September, 1784, 3,000
On Thomas Tilfotfon, Receiver for New-York —
For an Order in favor of Timothy Pickering,
Quartcrmafter-General, dated the 30th of Sep
ember, 1784, 5 0 ' 000
Ditto of Abraham Skinner, late Commifldry-Ge
icral of Prifoners,dated the 30th of September,l7B4, to
On William C. Houjlon, Receiver for the State of
\ T cw-Jerfey—
For an Order in favor of Timothy Pickering,
Quartermaster-General, dated the 30th of Septem
ber, 1784, <s>°° 0
On William Geddes, Receiver for the State of De
laware—
For an Order in favor of Timothy Pickering,
Quartermaster-General, dated the 30th of Septem
ber, 1784, 5' 000
On Benjamin Harwood, Receiver for the State of
Maryland—
For .an Order in favor of Timothy Pickering,
Quartermaster-General, dated the 30th of Septem
ber, 1784, 9> c0 ° -
On George Webb, Receiver for the State of Vir
ginia—
For an Order in favor of Timothy Pickering,
Quartermaster-General, dated the 30th of Septem
ber, 1784, 2 5'°
Tota1 ' ~ '&
Dedu£l so much thereof paia, 00,43^^
Leaves unpaid, 9
Treasury of the United States.
Beyer's Office 24th Seftcnier, NQURS^j^
ANECDOTE. h the
THE Abbs de Boisrobert being one morning ft
Cardinal Richlieu, said fevtral disagreeable
certain magistrate ot the firft order, and attributed to to him,
ridicule : a little valet de chambre took it in his hea o
" Monsieur l'Abbe, take care what you fay; attached
that I will inform M**** of it, to whom 1 am grea.
because he is my relation."—" Friend," rcphe te m j,im
M**** whatever you please ; on my part Iww in
you pretend to be his relation
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Mai®^
Lans, iicirthcOfwcgo-Marhn, New-YohS' 13