[No. LXIV.j
THE TABLE T. No. LXIV.
»' People tire never ?nore vexed, than when the thing
that offends theviisiuhat they mujl not complain of."
TEARS anil complaints are among tlicfour
ces ofrelief that lie open to the afflicfted
and unfortunate. Those people, who can vent
their grief in either of tliefe ways, feel less op
prelfion of spirits, than those who conceal their
misfortunes through atemper of prid», or cheridi
their sadness under fucli a clole contexture of
heart, as cannot readily let loose its sorrows.—
But one meets with innumerable ills and vexa
tions in the world, about which, it would be
weaknefsto sigh, and indelicacy to complain.
An epicure, in dining with his friend, some
times finds no difli that suits his palate. The
cookery may in every respect be different from
what he relishes. To be sure, he is placed in a
fitiiation, which, to him, is a very unpleasant one.
Nothing could vex him more, and yet he mull
not complain. He mult disguise his feelings, or
he will offend those of his friend.
An old man, connected with a young wife,
whom he durlt not quarrel with, is perpetually
exposed to vexations, which he cannot even men
tion without being ridiculed. His natural dispo
sition may be sullen and reserved ; and those cha
rafteriltics may be heightened by age and infir
mity. Her temper may be peculiarly gay and
volatile, and her desire for company and amufe
inent may be encreafed, by living with an hus
band, wliofe character and wilhes are so different
from her own. Both of them feel a state of un
easiness, which they can neither hope to escape,
nor cease to lament. And yet their disquietudes
are of such a nature, that any complaint would
excite contempt rather than pity. The evil ad
mits of 110 remedy : It meets with noconipaffion.
It can be 110 mark of difcerninent for persons vo
luntarily to plunge into a fftuation so tedious and
hopelels.
The secret of living happily depends very
much on knowing how to avoid the description
of evils to which I allude. In the choice of inti
mate friends and companions, one will fall into
disagreeable mistakes, unless he adts with great
difcernnien't and caution. A liuiilarity in circum
itances, a coincidence in political sentiments, and
many other causes may induce men to .form cir
cles of acquaintance, into which perhaps not a
lingle ray of realfriendlliip ever penetrates. One
should not number among his particular friends,
those persons with whom he becomes acquainted,
only through accident or convenience. If he
does, he will commit an error, that will involve
him in all the difficulties, I am exhorting him to
Ihun. Before any man is recognized as a familiar
associate, he ought to give unequivocal proof,
that he poli'efies purity of principles, and gener
osity ot heart. There should be a resemblance
intafteand habits between those who often come
together for the relaxation of their mutual cares.
When there is a disagreement in this refpedi,
their scenes of mirth and fellivity will soon de
generate into fullenncfs anddifcontent. It is not
material, that chere be a limilarity of age, under
standing, or natural temper. It is only requisite
that their habits and inclinations Ihould be form
ed with a view to limilar modes of gratification.
Nothing is more common than for an old man to
be less lprightlyand enterprizing than his young
friend, and yet both may take delight in the
fame course of business and amusement. A man
prone to lilence and gravity may be happy in
companions of an open unreserved temper. If
they are both alike well-bred, aAd familiarized
to like cultoms, their difference of temper may
probably never prove a l'ource of much vexation
to each other. But persons living together will
soon disagree, if they have been accustomed to a
different llile and manner of enjoyment, and
have modelled their taste and fafhions by a dif
ferent level of circumilances.
When I visit my friend, it is of no importance
to my liappinefs, that he fiiould know as much,
or talk and laugh as much as I do. But if he
gives me bad wine, and a dinner not so well dres
sed, as I could have got elsewhere, I undergo a
vexation, against which I have no remedy. This
shews how much of our pleasure in life depends
on avoiding habitual familiarities with persons,
who will inceflantly counteract our prevailing
taffe and inclination. I may view a man withref
peift and veneration for his talents and virtues,
and yet 110 degree of acquaintance may be able to
intereff any of the tender sentiments of my heart.
Wemavhoth applaud each other for our reflec
tive good qualifies, but we must commit force
upon ourselves if we attempt to pal's a social hour
together.
It cannot be too much contemplated how many
or the irkib ne moments of life are occaiioned by
S A T U Pi D A Y, November 21, 1789
incidents, that appear too trifling to be ranked in
the catalogue of misfortunes. No man could ever
move one l'enf'ation of pity in the breast of ano
ther, because his fellow-lodgers chose a different
hour of dining, or a different fort of provisions
irom himfelf; and yet many a man lias fuffered
more a<ftual vexation from such acaufe, than he
probably has realized in all the lofles and disap
pointments that have perplexed his plans of bu
siness.
When a man is afTailed by those heavy misfor
tunes which engage the atten;ion of mankind, he
may flatter his pride, by the manly fortitude he
discovers, and afl'uage his grief, by the tender
fyinpatliy he excites. This source of consolation
however is not open to another man, who is vex
ed and mortified by a thousand untoward acci
dents, which embitter every moment of his life,
and which he cannot think of, without sentiments
offhaine, nor declare without cxpofing himfelf to
derision. Men maybe so inceflantly teazed with
incidents of this (lamp, as to fall into habits of
peevishness and caprice, and become a torment
to thcmf elves and thofe,with whom they aflbciate.
I have seen two men, who from motives of conve
nience in bulinefs become fellow-lodgers. Their
taste in living was so opposite, that they were ne
ver both pleased with precisely the fame thing.
It is incredible how a petulance of temper grew
upon them, and how soon they dilliked each as
companions. It was no relief, under such vexa
tions, that they were both fenfi'ole, well-informed
men, and both sustained an excellent character.
Had one of them been a fool and the other a wife
man, they had probably lived more harmoniously
together, if their taste and habits had coincided
better. These reflections will, I hope, lead my
readers into an examination of the causes, that
contribute to happiness and tranquility. lam
confident that with a little precaution, men may
make life pass away more agreeably, and escape
innumerable fo-arces of disquietude, in which a
greatportionofthe human race are involved.
FRANCE.
Copy of a letter from the Marquis de Cascaux to the
Editor of the Paris Journal, and which hi has tranf
■rnitted io the Provinces.
Paris, August 30.
S I R,
THE queflion of the Royal Negative, themoft
important of" all the questions, after that of
deliberating by individuals or by orders, may, in
my opinion, be reduced to very simple terms.
The people is every thing. No legitimate power
cauexilt but from them and forthem ; or rather,
all that which bears the character of public pow
er, whatever may be its shape, can be 110 other
than the people acfting by representation of one
kind or another.
In a monarchy, the people have two kinds of
representatives, both equally efTential: the Na
tional AHembly, and the King. This is the rea
son why their persons should be held equally sa
cred and inviolate ; and it is evidently for the
public good that this inviolability should be eflab
lifhed.
Each of these representatives would be desirous,
sooner or later, to govern the other ; such is the
nature of man. This is the reason why the peo
ple fay to them both—Ye shall be able to do no
thing, but when ye agree.
In the mean time that they may severally know
what they ought to do when the public interest
requires that they should a<ft, the people fay to the
one, " It is your province to difenfs, and to pre
sent your labor to the King." They fay to the
other, " Do yon examine, and after you have ex
amined, if you fanrtion, it fball be my •will; that
is, it shall be Law. If you shall rejed; that which
the other body present you, do you fend it back
to me, that I may re-examine it; if I lhall ap
prove of that which you have rejetfied, I lhall
lend back the fame body to present it to you a
gain, and they lhalHtgnify to you, King ! Obey !
If on the contrary, I lhall think that you had
good reason for rejecting it, I shall chufe and fend
you other representatives, who shall lay before
you the bill altered and they shall fignify to you
that we are fatisfied with the manner in which you
have exercised the prerogative that we the peo
ple have confided in you.
We fee by this flatement whether the aflentand
diflent of the King were given to him for his own
advantage, or for that of the people : or rather
we may fee whether the National Aflembly has
the right to deprive the King of a prerogative
which guarantees the sovereignty of the people,
to whom alone the sovereignty belongs.
111 the mean time, a wicked Aflembly, and a
wicked King, might easily at onetime or another,
agree together to deceive the people. This,.there-
[Publijbiil (ill Wedriefday and Saturday, j
fore, is the reason why the people fay to the King
and the Aflembly, " Theli'oertyof the press ih:i]l
be as sacred and inviolable as your august per
sons, because it is my interelt that itfhouldbefo."
Let us refietft then whether it is not the mere
childhood of democracy to be afraid of a King,
when he is watched by a free press, and by the
National Aflembly, who hold the purse-strings of
the nation.
If it is not a childish fear of defpotifin to bea
larmed at a National Aflembly, when it is watch
ed by the press and the King.
If it is not the mere childhood of visionary pref
byterianifm, to be afraid of the concord and har
mony, which ought to fubfiit in an enlightened
age, between anunmoveableKing, and a Nation
al Aflembly, tobeconvened annually, when both
of them are watched by theiuviolabe freedom of
the press.
These are three tribunals of* the people, with
out which there can be no true monarchy, and
with which monarchy, of all the governments that
exist, will ever be that in which the interests of
the people will be bell watched over, and belt
balanced, and in which they will run the least
rilk of being facrificed, either to a King, or to
an Aflembly.
Such is the Amplification of the idea of a con
flitution ! I have the honor to be, &c.
Le Marq_uis de Caseaux.
Discourse delivered at the National Ajfembly on the Ith
oj September, 1789, by the female citizens -who
came to make an offering of their jewels and other
ornaments as a voluntary dijlributisn towards the
discharge of the public debts.
Messeigneurs.
THE regeneration of the State is a work com
mitted to the National Representatives.
The liberation of the State should be the care of
every good citizen.
In order to enable the Senate to fulfil a vow
that was made by Camillus to Apollo before the
capture of Vieum, the Roman ladies made a vo
luntary <)flering of their ornaments to the Repub
lic.
But 110 vows can be more sacred than engage
ments contracted with the creditors of the State,
the public debt fliould be scrupulously difebarged,
but the means' should be rendered easy to the
people.
It is in that -view thatfeveral citizens, wives or
daughters of art ids, came to ofFer to this august
National Aflembly tliofe ornaments, which they
would blufli to wear, when patriotism bids them
facrifice them to the public good. What woman
is there, worthy of the title of citizen, who
would not prefer to the iniipid parade of vanity,
the inexpveflible pleasure of converting the or
naments of herperfon tofo excellent aufe ?
Our offering is no doubt of final 1 value ; fora
mong the votaries of the fine arts, glory rather
than riches is the pursuit: our offering is in pro
portion to our means, but not to the sentiment
that animates our breast.
May our example be followed by many citizens
of either sex, whose circumstances are far more
opulent than ours! and our exampJe will, my
Lords (Mefleigneurs) befollowed, if you will but
deign graciously to accept, if you will procure
the facility of making voluntary contributioHS,
by establishing from this moment a bank, for the
sole purpose of receiving patriotic gifts in money
or jewels, to be invariably applied to the dis
charge of the national debt.
Reply of M. Le President of the National Stfjembly,
to the female citizens who have made an offering of
their personal ornaments towards the discharge of
the public debt.
THE National Aflembly beholds, with infi
nite fatisfadtion, your generous facrifice, which
emanates from motives of true patriotism.
May the more noble example which you offer
us at this present moment, communicate to all
ranks of citizens the heroic sentiment from which
it proceeds, and may it find as great a number
of imitators as it does admirers !
You are far more adorned by your many virtues,
than you could be by the precious ornaments
which you facrifice to the good of your country.
The National Aflembly will take into considera
tion the plan which you propose, with all the
warmth which it inspires.
A true copy. Signed,
Henry de Longueve, Sec. Nat. 4(f.
Dfschamps, Sec.
Acorre<fHi(l of the ladies (wives or daughters
of celebrated artists) who,on Monday the 7th of
September, 1789, delivered to the National As
sembly, their jewels and other female ornaments,
as a voluntary contribution towards the dif
j charge of the public debt.
Married Ladies.
' Moitte, president and firft mover of the patriotScheme, Vien, Be la Grenee the younger, Suree.
Berrner, Du Vivier, Belle, Fragonard, Veftler,
Peron, David, Vernet the the younger, Defmar
teaux, Beauvallet, oornedecerf. the wife of a
merchant.
Unmarried Ladies.
Vafle de Borrecuil, Veftier, Gerard, Pithoud,
De Viefvilla, Hautemps.
Sept. i. ThePalais Royal has been a scene of
tumult the whole day, chiefly owing to the dis
contented members of the diltricft having chosen
the different Coffee-houSes as convenient places
to discuss points that belong to the Diftrkls only,
which nevertheless drew vast crowds about the
doors, and rendered the Arcades absolutely iin
paflable.
About 7 o'clock, 300 French guards took poS-
Seflion of the garden, cleared tlieprlncipal Coffee
lioui'es, and fhuttheni up, cut off the communica
tion between the Arcades and the garden, by lock
ing all the gates under the arches, but at the prin
cipal entrance, then divided into companies, and
patrolled the reft of the evening, difperSmg the
people, by marching through every knot of men,
that chance or enriofity drew together.
About 11 o'clock, an extract from a verbal pro
cess of the Afleinbly of Representatives of the
Commons of Paris, was distributed among the
people.
In this extratfi the Assembly declares its indig
nation at the proceedings of Sunday, Mohday,
andTuefday, in the Palais Royal, laments that
the abode of a Prince, whom they love and cher
i{h, Ihould be profaned by the encouragement of
the molt attrocious calumny, and of such bloody
purposes, as revenge or ignorance may wish to
fee executed. It reminds the people of their in
fluence on the great provincial towns, warns
them against the ill consequences that such dis
orderly meetings mull neceflarily bring on ; and
authorizes the Marquis de la Fayette, to use the
power entrusted to him by the good citizens of
Paris, for quelling all disturbances in the streets,
and to take into custody those that appear to be
molt a<Ttive in misleading the people, that they
may be immediately tried and punished, accord
ing to the nature of their offence.
This Extracft is ligned,
VAU VILLIERS, 1
BLONDEL, V Presidents.
VINCENDON, S
BROUSSE DESFAUCHERTS, 7 c ,
DEJOLY, Seers.
The method of silencing the leaders is worthy
of relation, it being as ingenious and original, as
exempt from violence, M. de la Fayette was de
termined not to leave them even the popular
merit of persecution.
A meflage was Sent to the mad Marquis de St.
Huruge, requeuing his preSence at the Hotel de
Ville ; and 011 his appearing, M. de la Fayette
addrefled him with his uSual urbanity, acquaint
ing him, that rumors were Spread abroad injur
ious to his character as a man oSrank, and an offi
cer (he has the croSs of St. Louis) as well as of
the good citizen, which he was persuaded were
destitute of foundation. On his replying that
they certainly were unjust, " Of that we are all
convinced (answered the Marquis) and it is Sor
that very reaSon that we are desirous of availing
ourSelves oSyour military experience and talents,
and of giving you an opportunity, which you
certainly will readily embrace, of Silencing the
voice of calumny, by offering you the command
of a patrole of citizens in this quarter of the Palais
Royale."
There was no flinching from such a proposal ;
and he was thus ingenioully compelled to appear
at the head of the patriot citizens, to appease the
tumult he himfelf had instigated but twenty hours
before.
The committee of the NationalAflembly, however,
not deeming this amende honorablea fufficient
punishment, in a few hours after he came off
guard, had him apprehended and committed to
ttie State PriSon of the Abbaye de St. Germain,
as a warning to the reft of the idle or factious
Motion-makers.
The failure of Ouidors, the late Infpetlor of
the Police, has aftonifbed every body. 111 this
fellow's books were registered the names of all
the women of ill fame in Paris, who lived by
prostitution. He seldom had fewer names atone
time of this description of persons, than forty
thousand ; and from every one of these wretches
he annually got Something. No Sum, however
Small, was beneath his acceptance.
BRUSSELS, Sept. 8.
Iwo days since, the /hops, ware-houSes, and
houSes oS all the printers and booksellers in this
province, were Searched for Seditious pamphlets,
hand-bills, &c. in conSequence oS which, two
booksellers in this city, and one printer at Ant
werp, were imprisoned.
The garriSons are withdrawn from Ghent, Bru
ges, Oftend, and Nieupart, towards the centre of
Brabant. Those of Bruflels, Malines, Louvain,
and AntVverp, are changed to prevent the forma
tion of those habits of familiar intercourse which
are acquired with the inhabitants, by long refi-
dence. Infhort, the m ultiplied precautions us the
Government indicate its feeblenefs and evince its
fears. The character of its policy is marked by
those petty exertions that irritate and inflame,
without being diftinguilhed by those severe and
decisive lteps that intimidate and overawe a peo
ple.
No taxes have hitherto been collected, and the
firftrefufal of the illegal imposition, " fo-.ne vil:
1 age Hampden," will probably prove the firft sig
nal of revolt.
Vander-Noot, proscribed and exiled, to appre
hend whom, the Emperor has offered a million
of Horins, watches at Bredaforthe moment when
he can give aliiltance to his country : and there
is reason to expert an infurredtfon as general, and
as well concerted, as there is any example of in
history.
The House of Austria will learn too late the
value of these provinces, which they have equally
neglected and opprefled.
W A R S A W, A'ugust 24.
Prince Repnin is marching haltily forward to
meet the army under the late Captain Pacha, which
is intended to attempt the retaking of Oczakow,
colt what it will; lo that a battle ieems inevita
ble. Thirty Turkilh fliips of war have polted
themselves in I'uch a manner off Oczokow, that
the Ruffians are blocked up in Cherfon, and will
find it very d-.ingerous to attempt to fail out of that
port. 1 his may bring on an engagement.
LONDON, September 8.
The Marquis de St. Huruge, who isimprifon
ed at Paris, for having railed a tumult at the Caife
de toy, was formerly confined 011 account of in
(anity. He has occasioned much trouble at the po
pular meetings by his enthusiastic ardour. Bre
teuil was his enemy, and during his administra
tion, he fuffered much.
The proposed Senate of France is not to becom
pofed entirely of Nobility, in which particular it
differs from our House of Lords; it is, besides,
elective, and not hereditary ; and the age of 35
is, perhaps, a wife precution, to guard againlt
the precipitancy of youth. No perion was per
mitted to take a (eat in the Roman Senate until
he had completed his 40th year.
At Paris every thing seems quiet. The Mar
quis de St. Huruges, who was the promoter of the
late tumults, is arretted and and in prison. The
frequenters of the Palais Royal are frighented at
it, and we hear no more of those who have, for
some time past, excited such alarms.
The Countess of Artois left Versailles yester
day about nine, in order to meet the
Count ai Turin, who will, it is supposed, arrive
thereto day or to-morrow.
The Queen has fliewn a degree of resolution bj
flaying in f ranee, which might have been expect
ed only from the daughter of Maria-Tlierefa.
The mob set a price upon her head ; and she was
every day not only called Brunehalt, but threat
ened with the fate of that wicked Queen.
But Maria-Antoinetta resolved, with a manly
resolution, to brave aftorm from which so manv
Princes of the Blood, and able Generals, had
thought it prudent to fly. This spirited resolu
tion is of service to her—she is at this moment
much less unpopular than at anytime during the
last three months ; and it is expected that (he will
soon be reltored to the popularity which she
formerly enjoyed.
The French funds have lately risen two per
cent, in consequence of some patriotic regulations
proposed by M. Neckar, for raifingtlie new loan
of 80 millions, which is become very popular on
that account, and theprogrefs making by the Na
tional Aflembly in re-eftablifhingorderand tran
quility through the kingdom.
A letter from a merchant in Leghorn on Monday
lalt, and dated the 11 th inft. mentions, that a Tus
can, frigate, mounting 36guns, had jult returned
into that port, after having had an engagement off
the lfland of Corsica with an Algerine corsair, car
rying 24 guns, besides carronades : the engage
ment lasted three hours ; the Algerine was full
of men, and fought desperately, but a shot from
the Tuscan frigate having taken the corsair be
tween wind and water, she funk and every per
son on board perished. The frigate had thirty men
killed, and several wounded : her ringing* was
much damaged, and she will take some time to
refit.
LIEGE.
Sept 12. A rescript from thelmperialChamber
of Witzlaer has arrived here, ordering the Prince
Bishop to be immediately re-established in all the
prerogatives which he enjoyed before the revo
lution ; and also to replace the former magistrates.
This being read in public, caused very serious
alarm atfirft ; and it was aflerted, that if this or
der of the Sacred Imperial Chamber was not com
plied with, it would be the King of Prussia's du
ty to fend a body of troops to enforce it.
An Aflembly was immediately held at the Hotel
de Ville, where spirited and patriotic resolutions
were entered into; which were caarried to the
Hall of the Third Estate, and that of the Nobleile
in an inllant. '
Thcfe proportions and resolutions were readily
agreed to. 3
tt was tken piopofefi to fend a
Witzlaer, to tcitify, that << tile revolution wi :j
nipoufly applauded, and received with™
fition ot any kind whatever." ' to Pl«-
This proposition was readily agreed m , j ,
FirftState nominated for its Deputy the I ordVH
eft of 1 nxne. The Nobles named Couiu R
layinout, de la Chagelle; and the Third
Chevalier de Clieftret, reigning Burgomat c
Liege ; to he aflifted with Mefl". de Lefcrim, I°.
Baih'iige, Counsellors. * 1 ' aa(^
However, this momentous alarm has pro
duced us good effects, by binding by new tie!,?
three States, and that of all part* of the Prindpt
In consequence of the proposition made by the
Magistrates of this place to the Third Eltate tor
new the ancient alliabce and confederation of the
city and the country towns, they have one and all
eagerly consented ; and by afolemn ast, entere
into the firft instant, between the deputies of Li ew
andthofeof the twenty-two Towns oftheLowi
Countries, they have agreed to make it a common
cause ; and have sworn to each other in the name
of the Almighty God, and by their Country t »
maintain theirancicnt constitution withtheirfor
tunes, and at the riik of losing their last dropsof
blood, according to the fine expreirion of their an
cient alliances.
" Sans (ejfe les tins aufprts dcs autrts"
This aift has been sealed, signed, andmntualk
exchanged, declaring, " that ic was done without
any rank or diftiuiftion whatever, regarding them
selves are brethren who had only one right, and
one interest in common.
The Coinmiflioners appointed by aift of Parlia
ment for eredling four light houfesinthe North
ern part of Great Britain, have now completed
that important business; delcriptive particulars
of which will be forthwith made public, for the
information of mariners. The following are the
situations on which these lanterns are erected:
One on Kinnaird's Castle,
One on the Mull ofKintyre.
One on the North Ronaldfay, in Orkney,
One 011 the Point of Scalps.
The two firft have been lighted some time; the
lighting of the other two will take place on the
iotliof next month.
PARIS, September 15.
The order of the day being read, and the
question put, whether the National Aflembly
should consist of one or of two Chambers; B9VOW
appeared for two chambers, 849 for one; 122
Mentbers who would not vote. The idea of
a Senate, as proposed by Monsieur de Lally, is
therefore laid aside.
Monf. D'Eftaing having made the proper dis
position of the militia, as well for the security of
the Afletnbly, as for the tranquility of thetown,
received the thanks of the House, in a polite let
ter from the President.
The order of the day was scarce read, when a
letter was received from M. Neckar, containing
a report made in the Council on Thursday. The
reading of this report was immediately opposed,
and a long debate ensued on the propriety of the
King's interference in the business of the Allem
bly. The result was, that the report contained
in M. Neckar's letter should not be'read.
The affair of the Royal Sanction was now re
sumed, and the question proposed, whether the
King canrefufe hisconfent to the edicts of the
legidative body ? it was determed in the affirma
tive, by 730 votes againll x 43.
Another question then arose, in cafe the King
(hould refute his consent, would his refufalbe
fufpenlive or determinate ? The suspensive refu
fal was adopted by 673 against 325.
On this a new question arose, how long the
suspension should last ? It being now late in the
evening,this matter was referred to another day.
On the opening the Aflembly on Saturday, the
Cardinal de Rohan took his feat,and was received
with great applause.
The firft question of consequence was, the
referred question of the duration of the King s
suspension, when a member desired that it might
firft be determined how long each Parliament
Ihould last ; that is, whether their Parliaments
should be annual, biennial, triennial, See. Many
arguments were adduced in favor of each 0
these terms ; and, after debating the matter the
whole morning, it was determinned in favor 0
Triennial Parliaments.
UNITED STATES.
SALE M, Noveeber io.
We omitted to mention in our last, that on t e
day of the Preftdent's arrival in this town, in° r
der to communicate the general joy to the
bodes of wretchednels, " and light up a smile in
the afpe<ft of wo," the Committee of
ments ordered an excellent dinner of plumb pu
dings, roaftbeef, &c. forthe tenantsof the poo
house and prison. ,
A correspondent was highly pieafed attne e
gant display of the Waihington Safces at Cone
Hall, in this town, on the evening the Pre 1
attended the Ailetnbly—The refpetfs of ritekiES must be confiJered among tlic richest tri
butes paid to our illustrious Chief.
Some of the Members of Congress, in their de
bates on amendments to the Constitution, talked
of the discontents of the people on account of
i'ome obnoxious parts of it, as though they were
on the eve of an infuvrection : but we could ne
ver find in what part of the country these discon
tents exiftcd: among all the addrefles prefentedby
the people to our beloved President, not a fingie
wish for amendments is ftiggefled, though 1110 ft of
»hem express the liighell fatisfa<ftion at the go
vernment under which we live. The operatijn
of the government will no doubt discover some
defedls, and thole perhaps where they are least ap
prehended ; and the people leein universally dis
posed to wait the direclion of time and experience,
to know where to apply remedies. If the govern
ment fliould be found to affect the freedom or hap.
yinefs of one, it will of all ; and the grievance
being general, the sentiment for redress will be
equally so, and the remedy will follow of course.
The Arch'oifhop ofßourdeaux, in delivering to
the National Aflepibly of France the report of
the Grand Committee appointed to prepare the
form of a Constitution, speaking on the fubjecft
of a Declaration of the Rights of Man, and of
the Citizen, to precede the Constitution, observed,
that " this noble idea, conceived in another hemis
phere, fhoitld in preference be firjl transplanted a
mong us. We have concurred in the events -which have
given liberty to North America; J,be points out
to us on -what principles -M Jhould build the prcferva
tion of our own, and it is the new world, whither
we fortnerly carried nothing but chains, which now
teaches us to guard againjt the misery of wearing them
ottrfelves.
BOSTON, November it.
The report refpedliug Gen. Shepherd's hav
ing been fired at, in a late review, we are allured
by the General himfelf is totally destitute of foun
dation. Moreover, we are informed by several
gentlemen, that no circumstance whatever has
tranfpired,but what demoiiftrates, that the mili
tia of Hampfliire, to a man, revere and love their
Major-General, as an officer wliofe humanity has
ever been as conspicuous as his bravery.
By Captain Samuel Prince, who arrived here
last Saturday from Martinique, we are informed,
that the inhabitants of that island had chosen
nine Deputies to wait 011 the General for per
jniffion to sing TE DEUM on account of the late
glorious revolution in France. Afterl'ouie
little altercation, permiflion was granted. In con
fequeace of which, afolemn procession took place
at Port Royal of the inhabitants, to which the A
mericans in the harbor were invited, andrequeft
ed to join their fiag with the National one of France.
The religious ceremony being over,the procession
palled through the principal llreets, and return
ing to the Church, the flags of the two nations
■were solemnly consecrated, and placed in the Al
tar, there to remain as the emblems not only of
mutual friendfhip, but as enjigns of virtue, honor,
patriotism and liberty. After the procession was over
and the flags difpoled of, the General the Count
de Viomen il gave the Americans a polite invi-
Zation to dine with him and his officers, at his
house ; and shewed them on this occalion every
mark of attention and afFeiftion.
NEWPORT, November 1.
The oppofuion of the people here to the Con
ilitution arises from misrepresentation of it by
designing men, and a want of information with
regard to the eflential springs of a good govern
ment.
The undeniable truth, that suitable characters
cannot be obtained to fill up the various posts in
government, without salaries proportionable to
the ability and integrity, requisite to perform the
duties of them, is not known here from experi
ence, and therefore not much believed ; we have
been accustomed to give trifling or no salaries to
the most important offices, consequently we
must be incompetent judges ofwhat is requisite in
the national eftablilhment ; —No wonder then,
at the clamour here against the salaries established
T>y Congress, it is a favorable topic of inflainato
rymen, and an alluring bait to those of narrow
purse-strings Wejfoolifhly compare theN;-tion
al Government with our small republic, and a
true principle with a falfe one. United
States in Congress, have by their establishments
been atfluated by this truism, that every man
who accepts an office makes a facrifice of his
time to the public, and that it is but just they
should be paid for it, and that no officer can be
responsible for his trust unless he has a full com
pensation for his services.—While weexped: that
the' United States can be governed as we have
been, —instead of an honorable support to
an acceptance of an office—it is the influence of
party, or the baser principle of private interest—
hence have we experienced continual revolutions
ill our laws and our credit. What man of abili
tics and integrity would accept of the office of
Governor of the State of Rhode-Iflandand Provi
dence Plantations, for the pitiful sum of one hun
dred and fifty dollars per annum ? None; unless
ic was in time of danger; and then virtue and the
importunities of his fellow citizens might bring
iorth a suitable candidate for office.
When the citizens of this State rightly eonfider
tliefe points, they mult be convinced, that the
salaries eftablilhed by Congress are not only re
quisite, but that we shall never be governed well,
unless we make an honorable and permanent elta
blifhment, that will induce men of character and
responsibility to accept the offices of the State.—
Till this is done, the annals of our State, will be
little elfebut the annals of faction.
WORCESTE R, November 12.
The following is handed us forfaft, and is one of many inftan
ccs which (hew that it is necefiary the President of the United
States should have forrie title, ot address at leaff, to diftinguilh
him from other great perfotiages who may have occasion to travel
either in their own or other States^-—Towards the clofeof one day
last week, a mefTenger was sent forward to inform the keeper of
the Inn where the President intended to lodge that night, that
" the President was near bye* and wished to be accommodated
with lodging and a little necessary refrefhment, See." the Inn
keeper was absent; the Landlady, supposing the mefTenger meant
by the Prefidentthe President of Rhode-Island college, for it
was in the neighbourhood of that State, and that of course he had
his lady with him, and being herfelf unwell —fhtf told the mefTen
ger she could not entertain " the President" —and that ne mufl go
on to the next tavern—in confequcnce of which the mefTenger,
although it was late, had to fend word back to the President that
he had proceeded on to the next Inn, to provide that entertain
ment which he could not get at the firfl—The Landlady soon after
found out her miitakc, and molt pitcoufly lamented that she could
not have known that it was the illuflrious Washington, that intended
honouring her house—Bless me !" exclamed she, " the fight of
him would have cured me of my illness, and thebeft in my house
and in the town should have been at hisfervice." This Inn was in
the middle of the town, and when the inhabitants who lived in
the neighbour hood, heard of the affair, they could not refrain
cxprefling the greatefl mortification at this unlucky adventure,
which deprived many of them of an opportunity of feeing him
whom they would have delighted to honour.
NATIONAL MONITOR. No. XXVII. •
" HONOR'S A SACRED TIE."
THE National debts of this confe
derated Republic appear to many honijl
persons, who by the way are not public creditors,
to be a mountain that will finally overwhelm us :
From characters of this kind, we are frequently
entertained with doubts and apprehensions—and
tho they do not explicitly propose the deprecia
tion or annihilation of the public securities, yet
their fears on the one hand, and their want of
promptitude oil the oj.lier, in advocating the
cause ofjuftice, greatly encourage another set of
people in their open attempts to destroy all pub
lic Faith and Honor at a blow. There are not
wanting those who openly propose the SPUNGE
as the belt, yea the only mode which wildoin can
devise of getting rid of the domeltic debts of our
country : However, the Jhaiuclefs and unprinci
pled wretches who have the temerity to avow
l'uch a plan, are as the drop of the backet, com
pared to the great body of the people—which
appears to be decidedly of opinion that honesty
is Wisdom, and will prove the cheapest plan in
the ifl'ue. We have l'uffered enormous lodes in
times pad by our temporizing expedients, and
by the want of a little magnanimity of spirit in
adopting, even upon the fmallelt scale, the line
ofjuftice. Had our systems been squared upon
the principles of honor, tho in their infancy they
had been as a grain of muitardrfeen, they would
have expanded, and the Strait once pafled, all
would have been plain failing—difficulties would
have vanished as soon as they appeared—and the
bug-bear of the National Debt, would have been
converted into, and realized to be, a National
blessing.—And what 5s our present situation—
It isprecifely such, as should lead us solemnly to
declare, "That tho the Heavens should
FALL, WE WILL BE JUST AS A TEOPLE." This
being laid down as a foundation principle, the
clouds will dilfipate in every quarter—our prof
pedls will from that moment become bright and
encouraging—the public mind will be tranquil
ized—our credit will be reltored—our govern
meiit refpecfted—and we /hall always command
with facility, the means of preserving our Free
dom and Independence. Itmuft afford the great
est pleasure, and inspire the liigheft degrees of
confidence in the administration of our national
government, to observe those ineafures pursued,
which promise to rescue our reputation, and esta
blish our Faith as a people upon a basis never to
be fliaken. The principal source from whence
the individual governments derived their funds
topaytheintereftofthe State debts, being divert,
ed into a Continental channel, it is become in a
ineafure neceflary that State Creditors should be
come the Creditors of the Union—lt is difficult
to conceive how they can obtain Justice in any
other way—their expectations are accordingly
turned to the general government—and there
can be no doubt but that the consolidation of the
whole debt incurred 011 account of the war, will
be a ineafure, as popular, as itis just and necessary.
NEW-YORK, NOVEMBR 21.
Ext raft of a letter from Portsmouth, (Nc"d>-Ha>np-
Jhire) dated Nov. 4.
The illustrious PRESIDENT of the United States
left this town this morning, on his return to New-
York. He spent several days here, in which
time he visited our river and harbor—and once
disembarked on the lnoft northern district of our
Union—the old Province of Maine.—
He delighted every one—and appeared himfelf
not to be displeased with his tour.—
Nothing could exceed rhe flocking together of
the people, of every rink and denomination, as
he came through the country, and their univer
sal acclamations of joy and fatisfadiion at his ap
pearance.—He was heard repeatedly to solicit,
that the crowds who attended him, and lined the
roads as he pafled, would not follow him, buc
would return to their homes and their employ, a»
he could not be convinced but that it mull be in
convenient to rlietn. In tliefe in fiances, however,
his solicitations were fruitlefs : The ball as it
rolled on, most rapidly encreafed—even rivers,
and other natural obltacles neither impeding its
progref's, nor diminishing its lize.—
The oppo(it.ion to our present system of Go
vernment was in this quarter feeble before this
Prime Conductor of our affairs made his appear
ance here.—lt is how expiring.—
If the form of our government did not recom
mend itfelf fufficiently to every one, the present
chief administrator of it would reconcile all par
ties, till a fair experiment has been made.—
Nothing appeared toefcapethe President's no
tice as he palled—and those objects which mer
itedhis particular attention, he always flopped to
observe.—His refpeftsio every one were pointed
and exadt—and no one went from his pre fence
diflatisfied - ,
The addrefles prfefered to him by most of the
corporations and different orders of men among
whom he palled, and the eulogies he was con
strained to hear from the clergymen at whose
churches lie attended, were such as the crowned
heads of other countries would part with their
diadems to receive—They contained the grateful
incense of honest hearts—where foul met foul to
gether:—lndeed the great and good man appear
ed fometinies to be almost overwhelmed.—
The Preficlent absolutely declined, and even
forbid any further parade and attendance upon
him.—He left the town about sunrise, having on
ly the gentlemen of his family, Mr. Lear, and
Major Jackfon —and his own servants to attend
him.
It is impossible but that offences flionld come;
there are political, social and civil offences, as
well as sacred and theological.—lf a man main
tains with ardor any set of political opinions,
however wife, just and benevolent, he ought to
remember there are ignorant, absurd, and envi
ous people in the world, who will afl'uredly take
offence at his freedom ; but yet, fhallthe virtuous
and independant be deterred from advocating the
belt principles, because there are fnarlers, and
petulant carpers in the world ?—The man that
feels a generous sympathy for those in society,
whomanverfe fortune has condemned to struggle
with poverty, disease and want —who from the
fulnefs of his companion,is led to devise, and pro
pose plans to meliorate the circumstances of the
poor, and alleviate the diftrefles of his fellow
men, however incredible it may appear, he will
gi offence. —Thofe " who never felt another's
woes"—will notfail to impute unworthy moiifes
to the most benevolent deligns.—But, neither
the disapprobation of the niggard, or the facers
of the coxcomical, will avail to check the pur
suits of the man " whose heart devifech liberal
things." The present is an age of speculation
and improvement—the human mind is upon
the stretch, and its researches and discoveries are
astonishing in every art, science and profeflion.
Thefcience of government appears however, ve
ry justly, to claim the most distinguished atten
tion.—To fix this upon proper and equal
principles, is the most glorious pursuit of huma
nity;— The important interests—the life—the
freedom, and prosperity of mankind, are eflen
tially connected with a right understanding of
this divine fubje<ft—and yet the labors of the
wisest and best of men, those who have with in
dependency and heroism of mind, advanced the
most momentous truths, have given offence
Still they are not to be diverted from the lteady
pursuit of their duty, by the clamors of the weak
and unprincipled—the demagogues of the day,
who flatter, to betray j and who conceal their ig
norance under an impenetrable mask of im
pudence.
" The wealth,profperity and importance of all
this world are founded and erected on three liv
ing pillars—TheTiLLEßof the ground, the ma
nufacturer and the merchant; The tiller
fuppliesthe manufacturer, the manufacturer flip*
plies the merchant, and the merchant supplies
the world with all its wealth. It is thus that in
dustry is promoted, arts invented and improved,
commerce extended, fuperfluities mutually vend
ed, wants mutually supplied, that each man be
comes aufeful member of society, that societies
become of further advantage to "each other, and.
that States are enabled to pay their officers and
support the neceflary burthens of government."
IV ANTED, to compute Files of this paper, numbers 30,40, 43,
44i 45> 47' an d 48 ■' Six pencc each will be paid jur either of thujc
numbers at the office of the Editor. November 21.
ARRIVALS.—NEW-YORK.
Thurfdaj, Ship Britiih King, EUifon, Shelburnc, 8 days.
Ship Nortb-Carolina, Haddock, Cadez, 28 days.
BiigSilas and Sally, M'Combe, London, 70 days.
Sloop Providcnre Packet, Frilby, St. Mama:,. 14 days,
Vtiit . Brig Ptflly, Grec». Coposhajcn.MR. ADAMS'S LETTERS.
LETTER XII.
Amsterdam, Oct. 17, 1780.
SIR,
\A/ E . are . ~ow come s o your twelfth head of
( inquiry, which is, " What countenance have
the finances ? How much does the exfe/ice exceed the
yearly income P Does the annual revenue, deriv
" from the taxes, increase or diminijh, in the
" "whole, or in any particulars ? and what are the rea
" sons given for it ?"
Here I am apprehensive Ifhall find a difficulty
to make niyfelf understood, as the American fi
nances, and the mode of taxation differ so mate
rially from any that I know of in Europe.
In the month of May, t 775* when Congrefscame
together, for the firlt time, after the battle of
Lexington and Concord, they found it necellary
to rail e an army, or rather, to adopt an army al
ready jaiied, at Cambridge, in order to oppose
the Britiih troops, and ffiut them up in theprifon
01 Lolton. But they found that the colonies were
but jtill out of debt, had but just paid off the debts
contracted in the last French war. 111 the several
treasuries of the colonies they found only a few
thousand pounds. They had before themaprof
peftofa stagnation, or interruption of their trade,
pretty universally, by the British men of war.
1 hey had a thousand perplexities before them,
in the prospect of parting through thirteen revo
lutions of government, from the royal authority
to that of the people. They had armies and na
vies to form ; they had conllitutions of govern
ment to attend to; they had twenty tribes of In
dians to negociate with ; they had vail numbers
of negroes to take care of; they had all forts of
arms, annnuuition, artillery, to procure, as well
as blankets and cloathing, and fubiittence for the
army; they had negociations to think of in Eu
rope, and treaties to form of alliance and com
merce ; and they had even fait to procure, for
the subsistence of the inhabitants, and even their
cattle, as well as their armies.
In this situation, with so many wants and de
mands, and no money or revenues to recur to, they
had recourse to an expedient, which had been oft
en praclifed in America, butno where else ; they
determined to emit paper money.
The American paper money is nothing but bills
of credit, by which the public, the community,
to pay the polleflor a certain sum in"a
limited time. In a country where there is no coin,
or not enough, in circulation, tliefe bills maybe
emitted to a certain amount, and they will pass
at par; but as soon as the quantity exceeds the
value of the ordinary business of the people, it
will depreciate, and continue to fall in value,
in proportion to the augmentation ofthe quantity.
The Congress, 011 the 18th of March lall, stated
ta ' s depreciation at forty for one. This may be
nearly the average, but it often pafles much lower.
By this reiolution all the bills in circulation on
that day (and none have been emitted since) a -
mount to about one million and aquarter sterling.
To this if you add the money borrowed upon
loan certificates, and the debt contracted abroad
jn I lance and Spain, the whole does not amount
to but little more than five millions.
early income we have none properly speaking.
\\ e have 110 imposts or duties laid on any articles
of importation, exportation, or consumption. The
revenue confilts entirely of grants annually made
by the legislatures, of fumsof money for the cur
rent service of the year, and appropriated to cer
tain uses. These grants are appottioned upon
ail the polls and effates, real and personal, in the
community ; and they are levied and paid into
the public treasury with great punctuality, from
■whence they are issued in payments of the de
mands upon the public.
011 fee then it is in Lhe power of the legislatures
to raise what fuins are wanted, atleaft as much
as the people can bear ; and they are usually pro
portioned to the public wants and the people's a
bihties. They are now conilantly laying 011 and
paying very heavy taxes, although for the three
or four nrft years of the war the obftru&ioiis of
trade, iS.c. made it difficult to raise any taxes at all.
The yearly taxes, annually laid on, have increased
every year forthefe three years part, and will
continue to be increased in proportion to the a
bilities of the people. This ability, no doubt,
increases, in proportion as population increases,
as new lands are cultivated, and as property is in
jiny way added to the common fleck ; it will also
increase as our commerce increases, and as the suc
cess in privateering increases.
Lilt by the method of taxing, you fee that it is
in the power of the legislatures to increase the
taxes every year, as the public exigencies may re
quire ; and they have 110 other reltraint or limit
taan the people's ability.
I have the honor to be, &c.
„„„ „ JOHN ADAM S.
MR. CALKOEN.
ADVERTr S E M E N T.
(t- T MR. ADAhS's LEITERS which have appeared in the Gal
tette, are part oj t fines, 26 m number, wrote by his Excellency in
H»lan<l-V,e uholeare fubliJheJ in a pamphlet of 'ti 4 paces, whuh is
to br j".d Ay Mtjf's. Brrrv & Rogers, Hanma-Square, Mr. Robert
Hodge, QjHihSlfcci. and by the Editor hereof.
INVOCATION TO SLEEP.
il T ET not the patriot, whose unwearied mind
JL-i Toils for the general good of human kind,
Bend at thy shrine in vain : On him attend,
On him let all thy fofteft dews descend ;
And to his rapture-soaring foul be given
lo climb invention'! highest, happiest heaven :
Where Shakelpear, wand'ritig, tipt his tongue with fire,
Heard myftick founds and Hole a icraph't lyre.
Not less in vain the virgin lacrifice
Eloquent tears, and energy of sighs ;
O'er her fair brcall the sorrow-soothing rod
Gracious extend, and give her all the God :
Charm her fad drooping foul; and, killing, dry
The dewy drops that glisten in her eye."
CONGR.ESS of the UNITED STATES.
Begun and held at the City of Ncto-York, on Wednesday the Fourth
of March, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Nine.
An ACT to regulate Processes in the Courts of
the United States.
O E it enabled by the Senate and House of Reprefen
-U tatives oj the United State/ of America in Con
gress ajfembled, I hat all writs and precedes iffiiing
from a supreme or a circuit court, /hall bear tclt
of the chief justice of the supreme court, and if
from a diltriot court, lliall bear tell of the jud<re
of such court, and shall be under the seal of the
court from whence they ifliie ; and signed by the
tliei eof. The seals of the supreme and
cii cuit court, to be provided by the fupreine court,
and of the diftrkt courts, by the refpetfive jud
ges of the fame.
And be it further enabled, That until further
pi ovifion shall be made, and except where by this
ac\ or other statutes of the United States is other
wile provided, the forms of writs and executions,
except their style, and modes of process and rates
of fees, except fees to judges, in the circuit and
diftncft courts, in suits to*ommon law, shall be
the fame in each slate refpedtively as are now used
or allowed in the supreme courts of the fame.
And the foims and modes of proceedings incauf
es of equity, and of admiralty and maritime juris
diction shall be according to the course of the
civil law : And the rates fees the fame as are
or were last allowed by the States refpei r tively in
the coui t exercising supreme jurisdiction in such
caules. Provided, f hat on judgments in any of
the causes aforefaid where different kinds of ex
ecutions are iffuable in fucceflion, a capias ad
fati sfaciendum being one, the plaintiff shall have
Ins election to take out a capias adfatisfacienduvi
in the nrit lnlrance, and be at liberty to pursue
the fame until a tender of the debt and colts in
gold or silver shall be made.
And be it further enaaed, That this ast shall con
tinue in force until the end of the next feflion of
Congress and no longer.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
TOHM ATlAVlfr" °/ "'' Hou l' °J R 'prefentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, la-President of the United Slates,
and Prrfident of the Senate.
APPROVED, SEPTEMBER THfc CQth, 1780.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefient of the United States.
An ACT to explain and amend an Ast, entitled, " An
ast for Regiflering and Clearing Vejfels, Regulat
ing the Loajling Trade, and for ether purposes."
"D E it enaßed by the Senate and House of Rcpre
-LJ fentatives of theUnitedStates of America in Con
gress ajfembled, That when any goods, wares, or
merchandize cis foreign growth or manufacture,
'hall be unladen from any /hipor veflel in virtue
of a permit obtained for that purpose, and flrall
be put into a craft or veflel, with intent to be
transported to a landing within the fame diftrift
it fliall be the duty of the infpeftor, or other of
ficer attending the unlading of such goods, wares
and merchandize, to deliver to the matter or com
mander of every such craft or veflel, a certificate
of such goods, wares, and merchandize, having;
been dulj entered, and a permit granted there
for ; and such certificate shall contain a descrip
tion of all the packages, with their marks and
numbers, and shall authorize the transportation
and landing of the fame, at any landing within
the lame diftricl:, without any further fee or per
mit, any thing in the said recited ast to the con
trary notwithstanding.
And be it further enaCicd, That so much of the
twenty-second feftion, of the said recited ast, as
exempts veflels of less than twenty, and not less
than five tons burthen, employed between any of
the diftrifts of the United States, in any bay or
liver, and having a licence from the collector of
the diftrkt to which such veflel belongs, from en
tering and clearing for the term of one year, be
extended to veflels not exceeding fifty tons : 'Pro
vided such veflels lhall not have on board goods
wares, or merchandize, other than such as are
actually the growth or produce of the United
States.
And be it further enaCied, That so much of an
ast, entitled, "An ast to regulate the collection
of the duties imposed by law on the tonnage of
flaps or veflels, and on goods, wares, and mer
chandizes imported into the United States " as
hath rated the ruble of Ruflia at one hundred
cents, be, and the fame is hereby repealed and
made null and void.
IREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
T niiM A I-. A x ?P ea j[ er of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, I icc-Prcfdcvt of the United States,
and Prefdent of the Semite.
Approve!*, September «q, i 789.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefdcut of the United Slsics.
TREASURY D£
GENERAL ACCOUNT of ANTICIPATIONS 9 '
A PARTICULAR STATEMENT of War
r RA m TS drawn by tbe late Boa '-d of Trea*
frny on MickaelHuiegas, late Treafurv „r
t United States, which remain unpaid in
were compnfed ,n the Eftimatc made & the &
cretary of theTreafury of the United Spates and
by him reported to the House of Reprefentatiw*
ot the United States.
Date of jj « (| In wh of?favor. II
Warrants. || '|| Department, andfor what drawn II Da! - 9--W
CIVIL LIST.
Brought forward, « .
1788. 1039 Edward Chinn, late Commif- *
c - 24- iioner for Rhode-Island, for Sala
ries and contingent Expenses of
Office, one Quarter, from ill Jan
uary to 31ft April, 1787, 23, so
10 4° Ditto, do. do. do. from 31ft Oft
to 31ft Dec. 1786, . 6
1041 John Halftead, in part of a <"um
due him agreeably to A& of Con
gress, 4 th June, 1788, . 03a
1789. ioSi George Stanton, for the rent of
teb * ,0 * the House occupicd by the Board
of I reafury, from ift Novemberto
31ft January, -
1082 John White, Commiflioner for
the States of Pennsylvania, Dela
ware, and Maryland, being for ex
pen fes, attend in g the transportation
of public papers. &c. 8674
March 26. 1107. William Winder, late Commis
sioner of North-Carolina and Vir
ginia, for salaries and contingen
cies of office, transportation of
public papers, See. from the ift of
October, 1788, to tbe aoth of
March, ,789, M99gi
1108. Ditto, ditto, ditto, 51 01
1109. Ditto, ditto, ditto, 10! 1}
1110. Ditto, ditto, ditto, 2234
1111. Ditto, ditto, ditto, 23
1113. Ditto, ditto, ditto, 91
1114. Ditto, ditto, ditto,
in 5. Ditto, ditto, from the ift of
July, to the 30th of Sept. 1788. 500
1116. Ditto, ditto, ditto, 193
May 16. 1151. George Stanton, for rent of the
house occupied by the Board,from
the ift of February, to the 30th ot
April, 1786. ' 56 2a
June 2. n6B. Paul R. Randall, for his salary
as Secretary to the Algerinc Lega
tion, from Sept. 1785, to Sept.
1786, per A6l of Congress, of the
11th of Sept. 1788, 70§
u £* ,1 99- John Jay, Secretary of Foreign
Affairs, for Office-Rent, and
other contingent Expenses, $7 22
July 22. 1193. Benjamin Walker,Commiflion
er for fettling the Accounts of the
late secret and commercial com
mittees of Congress, from the ift
of April, tothe 30th of June,l7B9, 475
*789' Nathaniel Appleton, Loan-of
ficer of the State of Massachusetts,
Balance due him on Settlement at
the Treasury of his Accounts o£
Salary, to the 30th of June, 1789.
and which having been introduced
in the accounts of expenditure,
forms a Part of the Balance of
189,906 34-90ths, Dollats, Anti
cipation by the late Board of Trea
sury, on the 11 di of September,
1789, 2,64$ 6£
March 9. 1147. Roger Sherman, Esq. Aflignee
to Isaac Sherman, being in full for
his Expenses whilst executing Sur
veys in the Western Territory,
from 11ft April, to 21ft Septem
ber, 1787, 33 3*
William Ellery, Loan-Officer
of the State of Rhode-Island, on
a settlement at the Treafurv, of his
Account of Salary tothe 30thof
September, 1788, and which hav
ing been introduced in the Ac
counts of Expenditure, forms a
Part of the Balance of 189,906
34-90ths Dollars, Anticipation by
the Board of Tueafury, on the utfi .
of Sept. 1789, f lo 2'
May 13 . 1148. Pdtrick Fcrrall, being in full for
contingent Expenses, and Office-
Rent of the Office of the Board of
Commiflioners appointed toadjuft
the Accounts of the several States,
from the aoth of Nov. 1788, to
the 2d of May, 1789, $
Aug. 1. 1198. John Cochran, Loan-Officer of
the State of New-York, being for
his Salary and Stationary for his
Office, from the ift of April, to .
the 30th of June, 1789,
28,260 69
WESTERN TERRITORY.
1788. 859. Thomas Hutchins, Geographer
March 4. General, advanced for the Use ofi ,
of his Department, 2
1789. 1118. John Lawrence, Aflignee to
John C. Symm«,onc ofthe Judges
of the Western Territory, for his
Salary, from 26th March to 30th
June, 1788, per Ad of Congress,
of the 13th of July, 1787, 213 13
111Q ( Ditto, ditto, ditto,
aiao y rom 111 J"ly» to 31ft Dec.
(at 200 Dol. pr. quarter, 400 g 3
1141 Joseph Nourfe, Attorney to Tho
mas Hutchins, Geographer-Gene
ral, for his salary from the ift of
Jan. to the 31ft of March, .1789. 375
».»7g*y
Published by JOHN KENNO, No. 9, MudH;
Lane, N(.v,'-Yu<s.-|l-•