%LJw£>yily of me >yylyy-4-y yw/f iU>,> %
[No. LXVI.j
T HE TABLE T. No. LXVI.
a Noi/} made to a man s honor is never Jhocking to
him."
THE love of fame not only prevails as uni
versally as any other palfion, but its ef
fects are stronger ancl more conspicuous, tliaji
can be produced by any other motives. An ava
ricious man may be active and diligent in his pur
suits ; but when money is the main object of his
exertions, he will bear few inconveniences, and
run few rifques, compared with what will be
cheerfully sustained by thole, whom the love of
applause actuates. I know of 110 circumstance
that more emphatically marks the difference of
vigor between motives of gain and motives of ho
nor, than the different feelings that noise and
bultle can excite on persons, who are flimulated
by one or the other of those paflions.
Whoever has observed a candidate for a popu
lar election, in his attempts to carry his point,
niuft have seen a striking demonstration of the
efficacious influence of the love of honor. My
friend Honorcaptus, whom I once supposed a
very quiet, domeiticman, has lately become am
bitious of political distinction. When I was firft
informed that such a spark of ambition began to
kindle within him, I imagined he would soon be
disgusted, if he really made an experiment, in
thc°courfe of life, to which he was aspiring. 1
have however been deceived. No man of my ac
quaintance bears the clamors and tumult, which
attend public business, with more apparent tran
quility and fortitudethan Honorcaptus. This
is the more extraordinary, as he appears, when
at home, to be averse to any kind of noise or dis
turbance. The prattle of his children meets
with a frown ; and his servants can never hope to
escape punishment, should they laugh or ling in
his hearing. This good man, when he is enga
ged with his neighbors at a country tavern, rran
quilizes his spirits and bears the rudest fliocks of
impertinence without a complaint. Though in
his own house, when only attended by his family,
he loves silence and quietude, yet he is the firft
man to promote waggery and merriment, in cir
cles of men, whose votes he wishes to obtain.
I could point the reader to innumerable inltan
ces of men, whose actions afford a proof that the
love of influence and fame is one of the most ac
tive springs of human nature. But who is there
to ddubt the truth of the obfertation, even if I
had been fllent on thefubjeet.' It will not, I be
lieve, be doubted by any one. There is however
a ufe'ful inference to be drawn from the belief
that the passion, to wnich I allude, exilts in the
brealts of all men, and operates in molt men, as
their ftronweft impulse to action. A little reflec
tion will convince usthatthe passion itfelf should
neither be concealed not extinguiihed. It should
early be encouraged and controled. The firft
dawn of it, in an infant, should be diverted from
improper objects, as far as is practicable, and
turned into those channels where it can run with
faf'ety and advantage. It can seldom be detri
mental to a man to poflefs vigorous passions, if he
hrs been taught, on what occasions, and in what
manner it is proper to exercise them. Ambition,
when it prompts men to vicious or dishonorable
courses, proves pernicious to the person himfelf,
and to the community. But even this is lef's to
be feared, than the conduct of a man, in whom
ambition has been destroyed. From improper
ideas of merit, a man may seek applause by mean
and perverse actions. The fault is not to be al
cribed to his love of fame, but to his ignorance
of what really is praiseworthy. Youth should be
inspired with honest and generous sentiments,
and learn to distinguish actions of real worth and
excellence from those which catch momentary ap
plause from the ignorant and undifcerning. 1 he
force therefore oi'the passion need not be abated,
but the objects to which it is directed should be
choffen with great precaution, and managed with
great care and address.
LKTTER from Dr. Franklin to the late Dr.
Mother, of Boston.
REVEREND SIR,
I RECEIVED your kind letter, with your excel
lent advice to the people of the United States,
which I read with great and hope i.
will be duly regarded. Such writings, though
they may be lightly palled over by many readers,
yet if they make a deep impression on one active
mind in a hundred, the effects maybe confideia
ble. Permit me to mention one little instance,
vhicli, tho it relates to myfelf, will not be quite
iT.iinterelling to you. When T was a ooy I met
with a book, entitled, " Ejfaj sto do good, which
I think was written by your father. It had been
so little regarded by a former pollefloi, that fe
deral leaves of it were torn out ; but the lemairi
SATURDAY, November 28, 1739-
dergavenie fuchaturn of chinking as to have an
influence on my conducft thro life ; for 1 have al
ways set a greater value on the character ot a
Doer of Good, than any other kind of reputation
—and if I have been, as you seem to think, a ufeful
citizen, the public owesthe advantage of it to that
book. You mention your being in your 78th year
—I am in my 79th ; —we aregrownoldtogether.
It is now more than 60 years lince 1 left Boston,
but I remember, well,both your father and grand
father, having heard them both in the pulpit,
and seen them in their houses. The last time I
saw your father was in the beginning of 1 724,
when I visited him after my firlt trip to Pennsyl
vania. He received me in his library, andon my
takingleave, shewed me a shorter way out of the
house through a narrow palfage, which was cros
sed by a beam over head. We were Itill talking
as I withdrew, he accompanying me behind, and
I turning partly towards him, when he said hasti
ly, Jloop [loop ! I did not understand liiin, till I
felt my head hit againlt the beam. He was a
man who never milled any occasion of giving in
struction, and upon this he said to me, " Tou are
young, vnd have the world before you ; stoop as Jon
go thro it, and you "will miss many hard thumps."—
This advice, thus beat into my heart, has fre
quently been of use to me, and I often think of
it, when I lee pride mortified, and misfortunes
brought upon people by their carrying their heads
too high.
I long much to feeagain my native place, and
once hoped to lay my bones there. I left it in
1723. f visited it in 1 753, 1 743, 1753, and 1763.
111 1773 I was i' l England—ln 1775 I had a fight
of it, but could not enter, it being in pofleilion of
the enemy. I did hope to have been there in
1 783, butcould not obtain my dismission from this
employment here: And now, I fear, I fhallnever
have that happiness. My belt wishes however at
tend my dear country, eflo perpetua. It is now
blest with an excellent constitution, may it last
forever !
This powerful monarchy continues its friend
fliip for the United States. It is a friendfhip of
the utmost importance to ourfecurity, and should
be carefully cultivated. Britain has not yet well
digested the loss ofits dominion over us, and has
Hill, at times, some flattering hopes of recovering
it. Accidents may encreafe tliofe hopes, and en
courage dangerous attempts. A breach between
us and France, would infallibly bring the English
upon our backs j and yet we have some
wild heads among our countrymen who are en
deavoring to weaken that connection.
Let us preserve our reputation by performing
our engagements, our credit by fulfilling our
contracts, and our friends, by gratitude and
kindnefs—for we know not how soon we may
again have occasion for all of them.
With great and sincere esteem,
I have the honor to be,
Reverend Sir,
Your 1110 ft: obedient and
most humble servant,
13. FRANKLIN.
Pafjy, May 11, 1784.
Philadelphia, Oct. i(<, 1789.
At a Meeting of the Pennfylvan'ta Society for promo
ting the Abolition oj Slavery, ire. An effaji of a
Plat: for improving the condition of free Negroes,
■was presented by the committee appointed to pre
pare it, which after deliberate confederation was a
dopted as follows :
A I*LAN i or improving the CONDITION OF
THE FREE BLACKS.
THE business relative to Free Blacks fliall be
tranfaifted by a committee of twenty-four
persons, annually elected by ballot, at the meet
ing of this Society in the month called April;
and in order to perforin the different services, wit h
expedition, regularity, and energy; this commit
tee fliall resolve itfelf into the following Tub-com
mittees, viz.
I. A Committee oj Infpeflion, who fliall super
intend the morals, general conduit, and ordinary
situation of the Free Negroes, and afford tliem
advice and instruction ; protection from wrongs ;
and other friendly offices.
11. A Committee of Guardians, who fliall place
out children and young people with suitable per
sons, that they may (during a moderate time of
apprenticeship, or Servitude) learn some trade or
other bnfinefs of fubfiltence- The committee
maveffect this partly by a persuasive influence on
parents, and the persons concerned ; and partly
by co-operating with the laws which are, or may
be enacted for this, and similar purposes ; in
forming contracts on these occasions, the com
mittee (hall secure to thefociety, as far as may be
practicable the right of guardianlhip, over the
persons so bound.
i 1 ;! 1 i*''. . .
111. A Committee of Education, who (hall iuper
intend the ftliool instruction of thechildren, and
youth of the Free blacks ; rhey may either influ
ence them to attend regularly the schools already
eltablifned in this city, or forirt others with this
view; they iiiall in either caf# provide that, the
pupils may leceive fucli learning, as is neceiiary
for their future fituatioii in life ; and especially
a deep impression of the molt important, and ge
nerally acknowledged moral and religious prin
ciples. Thej Ihall also procure, and preserve a
regular record of the marriages, births and ma
numiifions of all Free Blacks.
IV. A Committee of Employ, who {hall endea
vour to procure conitant employment tor thof'e
Free Negroes, who are able to work : as the want
of this would occasion poverty, idleness, and ma
ny vicious habits. This committee will, by se
dulous enquiry, be enabled to find common la
bour for a great number ; they will also provide,
that such as indicate proper talents, may learn
various trades, which may be done by prevailing
upon them to bind themselves for such a term of
years, as Ihall compensate their malters for ths
expense and trouble of initrudtion, and mainte
nance. The committee may attempt the inititu
tion of some uleful, and limple manufactures,
which require but little skill, and also may afiiit
in commencing business, such as appear to be qual
ified for it.
Whenever the committee of infpccftion shall
find persons of a particular description, requir
ing attention, they Ihall immediately direcft tliein
to that committee, of wliofe care they arc the
proper objects.
In matters of a mixed nature the commitees
shall confer, and if neceiiary aifi in concert. Af
fairs of great importance, ihall be referred to the
whole committee.
The expense incurred by the prosecution of this
plan, Ihall be defrayed by a fund to be formed by
donations, or fubferiptions for tliefe particular
purpoles, and to be kept separate from the other
funds of this society.
The committee Ihall make a report of their
proceedings, and of theltateof their llock to the
society at their quarterly meetings, in the months
called April and O&ober.
PROGRESSOFTHE FRENCH CONSTITUTION.
NATIONAL ASSEM3LY, France, OCT. 8.
r T , HE two following ai ticlesof the conilitutiotl
JL \Vere voted without any debate.
" 7. The legillative body fnall present their
decrees to the King to be fancftioned, in order, as
they lhall be presented, or all together at the end
of each feflion.
"8. The Royal alient to each decree ftiall be
expressed by this formula, signed by the King,
Le Roi consent, et sera executer. The King's
fufpenlive negative by this formula, Le Roi exa
minera."
A third, directing that after afi'enting to a de
cree, the King should order it to be fealcd with the
Great Seals, and tranlmitted to the courts of jus
tice, Affeinblies of Adminiltration, and munici
palities, to be registered, publilhed, and execut
ed, occasioned much debate.
It was observed, that in fettling the form of
promulgating laws, such despotic phrases, as Nous
voulons et nous plait; de liotre e'ertaine science,
pleinepuifiimce et autorite rovale, Ihould be abol
iihed, and a form introduced expreflive of the
right and authority of the people, exerciled by
their leprefentntives.
Accordingly M. Frcteau proposed the preamble
to be " Louis par la grace de Dieu, et parlaloi du
Royaume, Roi de France, &c." " Louis by the
grace of God, and the law of the Realm, King of
France, &c."
After an amendment by M. de Mirabeau, pas
sed in the affirmative.
" Louis by the grace of God, and the constitu
tional law of the State, King of the French, toaU
men, present and to cotne, greeting:
" The National Aflembly has decreed, wewil;
and ordain as follows." And after this preamble,
the decree to follow.
The words the King of the French, infteadof
the King of France, were adopted, being the li
teral translation of the old words Rex Francorum,
which expressed the idea of King of Freemen.
Friday, Oct. to. The following letter was
received from the King.
Gentlemen,
Theinftances of attachment and fidelity which
I have received from the good city of Paris, and
the invitation of the commons have determined
me to fix my permanent abode there ; and in the
confidence which I have, that you will not sepa
rate from me, I invite you to chufe Cominifilon
ers tofeled: the molt proper place for the Nation;il Aflembly to fit in. I fliall giva the neceflary
orders to prepare it. I /hall facilitate and expe
dite the mealures which mutual confidence may
require. LOUIS.
This letter occasioned Tome debate, and some
members argued against their removal to Paris.
It was put to the voice, and by a great majori
ty it was decided that they should remove to Pa
ris, conformable to their declaration to the King.
Several of the representatives imagining that
the National Aflembly is on the eve of being de
prived it its liberty, and that on its removal to
Paris it will be dangerous to manifeft opinions
contrary to thofeof the multitude, have demand
ed paflports.
Several Members complained of the insults
offered to themselves and other representatives
by the populace ; among other things it was ob
served, that they wanted to aflaflinate M. Ti
rieu, one of the deputies who accompanied the
King to Paris. One gentleman aliened, that his
own house would have been plundered, had it
it not been for the National militia—The fubjed:
was adjourned.
M. de Mirabeau complained to the Aflembly of
some expreflions used by M. de St. Priest, Mi'nif
ter tor Paris, on Monday last, which he said might
have been attended with fatal consequences.
M. Mirabeau aliened, that when 4 or fooo wo
men arrived at Versailles from Paris on purpose
for bread, they addrefled themselves to M. de
St. Priest; who replied in the following words:
" Ladies, when you had but one King you never
•wanted bread—at present you have 1200—go and
ask them for some."
This affair which excited the most lively sensa
tions in the Aflembly, was ordered immediately
to be reported to the Committee of Inquiry.
LONDON.
MIRABEAU.
M. de Mirabcan, whose name is frequently
heard in the debates of the French Parliament,
was fir ft brought into public notice during the
administration of M. de Calonne, who employed
him in an inferior capacity as an agent to fcruti-
Jiize into the conduct of the Prtiflian Cabinet, at
the moment when the late Monarch was on the eve
of diflolution, which threatened to produce a Re
volution in the Germanic system.
His letters to the French Minister, during his
residence at Berlin, betrayed strong marks of a
bility and talents for intrigue; and the beftproof
of their importance is, that having been since
publilhed, under the title of, " The secret His
tory of the Court of Berlin," the King of Prus
sia had fuflicient influence at the court of Ver
sailles to get the book condemned by the laws of
France, and it was afterwards burnt by the com
mon hangman. To give it greater celebrity, the
condemnation of it was preceded by a funeral
oration from the King's Advocate General.
Notwithstanding M. de Mirabeau's acknow
ledged talents in the line in which he was em
ployed, it is certain from his own letters tliat the
court of France did not think proper to trust him
with any of the secrets of the cabinet, for the
■want of which information he was always in the
dark, and unable to proceed perhaps to the extent
of his abilities. At the expiration of a year, M.
de Mirabeau was recalled.
M. de Mirabeau has been compared by his own
countrymen, to Cataline, and probably with great
justice. His superior and uncommon talents are
considered as a misfortune, rather than as a ser
vice to his country—and while they strike the
mind with admiration, they are never heard with
out fear and distrust. Tho of noble extraction,
his abilities have neither been able to procure
him a character nor fortune ; for being a man of
tire most degenerate and base principles, he is
shunned rather than courted by his fellow citi
zens ; and hence it is that his fine arguments in
the debates of the national aflembly make little
or no impreflion, and he is obliged to write a jour
nal of the proceedings of that Aflembly as a
means of livelihood.
i
Late ft accounts of the Difturlances at Versailles.
THE King's government may now be supposed
to be at an end. In fad;, he is the prisoner, not of
the nation, but of the people of Paris; and per
haps foreign Princes might, without any viola
tion of the laws of nations, or the rights" of So
vereigns, refufe to recognize.any longer his Am
bafladors.as the representatives of a Sovereign and
independent Prince ; for no two characters be
long less to any man, than sovereignty and in
dependence do to Louis XVl.'at this moment. Nay,
this unfortunate whose fault lies not in
his heart, holds not merely his crown, but his
very life, at the will of a multitude whose im
portance depends upon commotions, and who,
under e fettled government, however free, must
fink into the fuuation of hewers of wood, and
drawers of water.
The situation of the King Is truly deplorable,
when he was at Versailles he did not think his life
ft cure, though he was surrounded by the corps of
lifeguards, the 100 Swiss, and the regiment of dra
goons called Les trois Eveches, from the three bi
ilioprics of Toul, Metz and Verdun, in Lorraine,
where it was raised.
If was resolved, therefore, by the Council, in
coiifequence of his Majesty's wifli, that another
regiment fliould he ordered to Versailles, to do du
ty about the King.
In the felec r tio)i of the regiment which was to be
added to the King's guard, the Minsters considered
principally which was eminently diltinguifhed for
an attachment to his Majesty's person.
The Regiment du Roi, or the King's own regi
ment, would therefore have been singled out 011
this very account; but it confiftedof fourbattal
lions, and it was feared that the approach of so ve
ry numerous a corps, would have given umbrage
to the people.
The well known attachment of the Marquis de
Lufignan, sprung himfelf from kings, to the per
son of Louis XVI. and the attachment of his regi
ment to their Colonel, determined the King to
order the regiment de F land re, commanded bv
that Nobleman to march to Versailles.
The military etiquette, of France has cftabliffi
ed a custom through the service, that when are
gim ent marches into a town where there are troops
in garrison, it is always entertained at the expence
of those troops.
In consequence of this etiquette, and by no
means through design, the officers of the Flanders
regiment were invited to dinner by the lifeguards
The dinner wasferved up on the ftage'of the
opera-lioule in the palace, as the most capacious
place.
When the glass had circulated rather free
ly, some toasts were given by the life guards,
strongly expressive of loyalty to the King.
1 he officers of the Flanders regiment shouted
approbation when they heard them, and drank
them in the Engliffi stile with loud huzzas.
This convinced the lifeguards that their guests
and they were all of one mind; and then it was
that the proposal was made for trampling under
foot the National cockade, in which all joined
most heartily.
The appearance of the King and Queen, who
entered the place merely to do honor to the guests
incrcafed the flow ol loyalty; but when the mafic
fti uck up the air ot O Richard—Omy King, the
all ufion to his Majesty's situation, which those who
ordered the band to play this tune, would have
thought to be like that of Richard Coeur de Lion,
the fit nation of a monarch deprived of his liberty,
the officers felt themselves wound upto the highest
pitch, and as if animated by one foul, began all to
sing the words of the song.
I he King himfelf was atfeiffced ; he immediately
walked out, unable to speak, and with his hand
kerchief up to his eyes.
The officers then solemnly pledged themselves
to one another, that they "would Hand by their
King, release him from the bondage in which he
was kept by a vile canaille (such were their \yords)
or perish in the attempt.
These gentlemen,however, were comparatively
few in number, and therefore though they were of
approved gallantry, they knew that if they were
not backed by the soldiers, they could do nothing.
Such of the non-commissioned officers and pri
vates as were known to have most influence on
their fellow soldiers, were called in and founded.
They declared their readiness to fight for their
King, and second their officers in what they cal
led a glorious cause.
1 lie officers thus sure of support, treated the
Garde Bourgoife with sovereign contempt, ridi
culed their unmilitary appearance, and insulted
their national cockade.
As loon as the news of this tranfacftion reached
Paris, the people became alarmed for their fafety
they dreaded left thisfhould be the fore-runner
of a new revolution in the army, and that the dif
ferent regiments would soon delert the popular
canfe with as much precipitation, as they had em
braced it with levity.
They resolved therefore to crush this return of
what they called loyalty, in the bud ; and for this
purpose the Marquis de la Fayette marched to
Versailles with 20,000 men.
The Parisians have always been held in sove
reign contempt by the French army, when there
was any question of making tliem face an enemy ;
and therefore the regulars were not dismayed at
the fight of this army, preceded by a body of fu
ries inthefhape of women.
The life guards, the too Swiss, the Flanders re
giment, and the Trois Eveche's drew upto receive
them—and if a man could judge from appearan
ces, he would fay, that there was not a single sol
dier belonging to this little army, who was not de
termined towithftand the militia, whilfthehada
single round of powder and ball.
Ihe officers, deceived by this appearance of
firmnefs, did that which on no other occasion thev
would have been rash enough to do ; they cave
orders to fire. 6
The order was firft given to the life guards,
and was obeyed with alacrity.
It was next given to the Flanders regiment, but
not a man obeyed it, on the contrary, the whole
regiment went overtothe people.
The dragoons (les troisEveclie's) flieathed their
i words.
The commanding officer of the 100 Swiss, fee
ing this, gave no order at all.
riiciour companies of lite guards tV l.r
eel, thus betrayed, feeing thenifelveJlehev^ I ,'
to the fury of the militia, were obliged to ' !i y P ,,j
fon.e of the officers of the most •
nnhes in France fell victims to their for* ' '
That the life guards were betrayed, is'uncrf
Uonable, for bad they not had the molt po tl'
aflurances of fupportirom the relt of the'tronm
they never would have been raffi enough to vridf
ltand thousands.
The regiment de Flandre, which piqued itlelf
on being fans tache, without stain, has brought
indelig.ble disgrace upon itfelf, not for havf n! r
refilled to fire upon the people, for that - it, con
fidered abftra«ftly, might be called patri Jt ic
But for having promised to stand bv the life
guards and their officers whilst they had life and
tor having afterwards deferred them, and luffer
ed them to be cut to pieces by the militia.
As soon as the people became mailers of the pa
lace, they began to cry out, that if the King was
fuffered to remain vx Versailles, thel'afety of the
public would be endangered, and therefore tliev
Taid that he must consent to place liimfelf under
the protection of his good city of Paris, and reside
in that capital.
The sense of the people was made known to
the King, who had it not in his power to oppose
that sense.
He fonnd that so impatient were the people for
his departure, that they would not wait till apart
ments could be fitted up and aired for him in the
Louvre, where the French Court has not been
kept for many years ; and therefore he wasunder
the necessity of setting out immediately for what
he considered not his palace in Paris, but hispri
fon.
His ears were never once fainted with a Vive le
Roi on the road to the capital ; on the contrary
the snouts of Vive le Nation echoed on every fide.
The unfortunate Restorer of French Liberty,
was led captive thro the streets, and once or twice
he saw the dead bodies of two of the women killed
by the life guards, placed in his way, that he
might fee, the people confidercd him as. the au
thor of their death.
His Majeity endeavored occasionally to look
cheerful, but his dejection soon returned ; and
he had the appearance of a man who knew, or at
least feared, that his journey would be clofedby
the tragic scene of his death.
The never appeared more like a Queen,
neither dejetfted, or affecting indifference; she
difplaved an equanimity which even her enemies
were forced to admire.
LONDON, Oct. 3.
The scarcity of braad, which threatened a fa
mine at Paris, and was partly supposed to cause
the late convulsion at Versailles, immediately
ceased, and plenty was proclaimed on the King's
arrival at Paris. Ever since that time, the citi
zens have been composed and fatisfied refpe&ing
the article of corn.
The National Aflembly of France is a daily ex
pence of 24,000 livres to the Nation. Each De
puty is allowed 18 livres a day for his expences,
which, with the salary of Secretaries, lights, and
attendants, amounts to that sum. The good of
the Nation may therefore be said to cost it 1000
crowns for every hour the Aflembly fits, comput
ing the fitting at eight hours a-day.
The Clergy of France are a great, and have
been considered as a very powerful body. They
confilt, at present, of eighteen Archbifliops, and
one hundred and thirteen Bishops, all named and
appointed by the King—who has (we mean ki)
likewise the nomination of seven hundred and
ieventy abbes, and of the Superiors of three
hundred and seventeen converts of nuns. This,
it may be supposed, gave the Crown great influ
ence over the fubjetft. This wonderful fabric,
however, so lately deemed impregnable, is no*
evidently tottering.
Mr. Jefferfon, the American Agent, as wells'
his secretary, who followed him to Cowes, met
with every civility at the custom-house, by the
express orders of Mr. Pitt ; a circumftancewhich
has produced more will among the Ameri
cans, both for the miniller and the country, than
would have been obtained at another juncture
from favors far more important.
We learn from Madrid, that the King of Spam
has ordered a nine day's supplication to Heaven
(neuvaine) overall his dominions, praying that
the Almighty would be pleased to fruftrate ana
confound all thofecounfels which tend to the hu
miliation of the monarchical power in t ranee.
When the Inquisition in Spain is demolished, as
it certainly muit beinprocefsoftime,thehirtoi)
of that iniquitous prison will altoniih mankin ■
The Baftile has been a paradise to that place 0
torments.
A happy turn.—At one of the late country as
sizes, where an indictment for an aflault had been
preferred agairift a woman for the ill usage 0
her husband, who is superannuated, his Coun e,
in the heat of declamation, happened to lay> c ®
half the sex were devils ! But feeing a num
of genteel females in the Court, after a very
pause, he went on—" But the other half arc 3
gels ! and Teveral of them, said he, are now pt e * eFrm hit LONDON' ADVERTISER.
Saturday, 31\Jl May, 1788.
A CAUSE was on Wedncfday tried at Guildhall, befoje Mr.
Jbfticc Bullcr, the decision of which the Court declared to
be of the greatest importance to trade and commerce. The ast ion
was brought by MefTrs Paizely and Co. to recover from Mr. Free
man, a considerable sum of money, being the value of a quantity
of cochineal which the plaintiffs Hated they had fold to a Mr.
Faulk, a bankrupt, in of a fi&itious crt-dit and falfe
character the defendant wilfully gave him as a merchant. It ap
peared in evidence, that during the insolvency of Faulk, who was
concerned in large Speculations,the defendant had given him a co-
Jorable oredit, and fallacious reputation, representing him as a
merchant of responsibility, in which chara&er he obtained goods
from various houles to a conliderable amount ; that Faulk having
applied to the plaintiff for the goods in question, a reference was
made by the former to the defendant, refpe6ting his chara&er and
responsibility ; and that the defendant, representing him asaper
fon worthy of the highest credit, the plaintiffs, from that recom
mendation, trusted him with the goods in question.
Mr. Piggott (as counsel for the defendant) made a most excel
lent speech, 111 which he said that 110 merchants cbara&er would
be secure, if a man was liable to be called into a court of juflice,
forgiving a fellow-citizen a good character, as the denial of that
chara&er, upon application, lead to the ruin of any trades
man or merchant however relpeftable. Mr. Buller summed up
the evidence with his usual judgment and precision, accompany
ing it with many observations upon the importance of the present
attion to a commercial country; he said, the question for the jurv
to determine was, whether the defendant had knowingly Ipoken
falfeiy, by representing Faulk to be in pofTefliori of that character
as a responsible merchant, to which he had no claim, and in con
fidence of which representation the plaintiffs had trailed him with
then goods.
The Jury retired for some time, and brought inthe verdict for
the plaintiffs 427/. damages.
UNITED STATES.
PHILADELPHIA, November 21.
ON Tueiday, the 10th instant, the Diftrilt Court of the Uni
ted States, in the Dillrift of Pennfylvama,* was opened in the
State-house in this city, by the Hon. Francis Hopki nson, Esq.
Judge ot tffe Court.
Such members of Congress as were in town, the Mayor and
Recorder of the city, and a number of refpedable citizens at
tended on this occasion.
After the commitlions of the Judge, of the Attorney for the
United States, and of the Marfhalof the Court were proclaimed,
and a number of the Gentlemen of the Bar admitted, the Judge
addreHed the Grand Jury in a charge suited to the occasion.
The Foreman, in behalf of the Jury, requefled a copy of the
Judge's Charge, for publication, of which the following are the
concluding observations :
" Thus hath the government of United States been eftabliftied
on the broad basis of the will of the people ; which is the only
just and permanent foundation on which governmtnt can be built;
for, the people are the true source of power, and the objett of go
vernment should be the good and profperityof those from whom
government is derived, and for whom it is instituted.
" My hearers, will, I am sure, rejoice with me in the profpeft
of the future glory of our new founded empire—A dominion ex
tending through various climates—resources inexhauflible—the
blessings of nature improved and heightened by the powers of
art—endless population —commerce unlimited—and, above all,
the wealth and ftrengthof so many potent States, united and bound
together by a liberal, and yet vigorous conlfitution, give us area
fonable bope that America will soon rife, like her own eagle, and
soar above those clouds and itorms which disturb and territy birds
of a weaker wing.
" CtNTLEMEN)
0 If any crimes or offences,cognizable by thejurifdi£lion of this
court, have come to your knowlege, it is your duty to enquire
concerning them, ana present them for trial. Should you want
any information refpe&ing the law, or inllruftion in points of
jorm, the court, or the attorney for the United States, will be
readv to give you all neceflary afliflance."
After theaddrefs several caufcs, criminal, civil and maritime,
were inflituted in this new court.
Let me recommend (fays a correspondent) one particular of an
important employment, forreducing the balance ot trade which is
against the citizens of America : WOOL! It is no exotic, and
can owe to no foreigner! Beatexpence on this article amongst
ourselves : encourage the growth ot it ; and promote woolen
manufa&ures : begin, in small atfociations or companies, with
the(implefl fabrications ; such as of blankets: they arc neceflary
as coats. Other objects for a well applied indultiy will occur,
the one after another. As a forerunner to promoting employment,
be hold in amending the regulations refpe&ing the poor : princi
pally provide checks on the magistrates, governors, and o\erfeers,
who through levity, weaknesses or other cause, futtcr their coun
try to be ihamefully abused and opprefTed in particular parts of
tbe continent, and involve in their lax government a marked
encouragement of fomc of the greatefl evils that can enfeeble na
tiansor affeffc mankind; idlenejs and debauchery, with theircon
commitent lurctchednefs. tjolin will be at c&fe ; will be idle ; will
be a Jot, because John can whine himfoif into the iociety ot pub
lic paupers without difficulty,be and there provided for,as a drone,
by the industrious, The laws provide sos the poor, but not
for the impostor : I would provide for the poor, but they
should be kepttofome employment; all paupers who are capableof
whittling a flick, may be induced to pass their time in producing
toys for others ; as the Dutch people are used to supply our babies,
big and little. A steadiness in work, of various lorts, according
to the abilities of the refpetlive inmates, would greatly lcfTcn the
public burthen ; both by the income produced by it, and from
impostors shrinking from a compulsive work under confinement,
when they can chute to work at large. Want of a right criterion
for admitting of applicants, to be provided for at the public ex
pence, is the principal cause of nine-tenths of them being in rea
son, in humanity, policy and in juflice, improperly received.
That zmzx\\% poor, is not alone fumcient cause for the fervantsof
the public to provide for him at the cost of the industrious pait of
the community : besides his being in a state of indigence, he mull
he incapable of working fufftciently to support himlclf in neccl
faries ; and he muftbe without any connexion capable and com
pellable by law to provide tor him. Indulging a whining dione,
capable of gettinga living by labor or in any way of his former em
ployments, is encouraging the vices above enumerated, and in
effect multiplies paupers and wretchednefs y Pen. Mercury.
BOSTO N, November 18.
It is a circumstance worthy of remark, and at the fame
reflc6U honor on Great-Britain, that in that kingdom the artiits
patronized by his Majcfty, are principally Americans. \\ est is
Historical Painter to, and a favorite of His Majesty Copley
also stands high in the Royal favor —and we lately have seen that
our young townsman, Brown, has been appointed Painter to
his Royal Highness the Duke of Clarence.
A correspondent has been so Obliging as to turnifli 11s with two
papers, printed at Madras, in India, from which we have extradl
cd the following paragragh :—
BENGAL, JANUARY 17.
DEHLI.
The fate of Gholoum Khadir Khan has been at length deter
mined upon, and the mode of punishment prescribed : His eyes
«re firft to be scooped from their sockets, with a ftmilar inftrumert
10 that with which he caused the unfortunate King sto be extratt
pd ; in tkis situation he is to remain for a certain time, in oulei
khat lie hunfeif mny fevl thofj agonizing unfpcakable fiifler
ings which he had occaiioned to another ; lie is then to be con
duced to a place prepared for the occasion, and interred to the
mtddle, :n which pollure he is to continue, to be ihot at with
poifoncd arrows, until he expires. His offences, it mud be ad
mitted, have been monstrous ; his punishment, however, we are
sorry to fay, tho seemingly accommodated to his a&ions, is a spe
cies of" refined retribution which too strongly marks the sangui
nary principles which, unfortunately for mankind, Itill influence
Eastern governments. It may be laid, that it suits dclpotic States,
where whatever inspires fear, is the propereft spring of govern
ment ; but the voice of nature cries loudly againll it.
POPE'S ORRERY.
Extrafl of a letter from a gentleman in London to his friend in tuistowni
You may be affuied that the University at Cambridge, in New-
England, is in poflellion of a far better Orrery than ever was
made in England ; for in my hearing, the King's Astronomers
and Mathematicians allowed that there never was one made in
England equal to that of Ri tt f. nhouse's, at Philadelphia —
and according to Mr. Pope's description of the plan of his Or
rery, they acknowledged his to be much superior ; and told him
" they have purchased it of you for aimed a song, for it is im
poflible such an one (hould be made in England short of twelve
hundfed guineas.
In addition to the many manufa&urts rising progreflively in
America, no mentuvn has as yet been made of the ivory Comb
Manufactory in this town—A branch of manufathire which no>v
produces,even for exportation, Combs as cheap, and as well made,
as any in Europe, and which, if properly encouraged, would not
only save but bring much money into the town.
NATIONAL MONITOR. No. XXVIII.
" Truth and Fidelity are the pillars of the State ;
Ij any dlind Sampson break but these, the fabric falls,
and crushes all to pieces."
IT is of the lall importance to the honor and
liability of our national government, that its
foundations ihould be laid in faith and jujtice. In
order to this, the public engagements should be
made with greae caution and reserve ; and so within
the limits of fair, and probable calculation, that
the performance may, if poflible, always exceed,
but never fall Jhort of expeiftation. A punctual
man is an anchor to his friends, and connections ;
but confidence in the public Ihould be an immove
able pyramid of trull, that cannot fail. Whe
ther the Continental, or State Governments, have
in times pall, been profufe in their promises, and
remiss in the discharge of them, need not be en
quired into : but certain it is, that the public has
not been confulered, as in found policy it Ihould
have been, the moll eligible creditor ; and from
this want of confidence in the public faith, the
debts of our country have been contratfted on
such terms, as have amazingly augmented their
amount.
From this dear bought experience, a very im
portant lefl'on may be learned : and that is, not
to make a single engagement, beyond our abili
ties. Such a determination, it is true, may dis
solve the airy visions of many fplenetie fyllem
mongers, and sanguine speculators ; but it is the
only line of prudence and success. The refleift
ing, fubllantial creditors of the nation will ap
preciate the merit of such a resolution, as the only
fafe and effedtual rnwde of eftabliftiing the public
credit, and placing the United States upon such a
footing, as will enable them to make their future
contracts upon terms of equity and common justice;
The United States are doubtless in poflellion of
resources connnenfurate to their demands : but
these resources are many of them latent; and tho'
of such a nature, as cannot leave a doubt upon the
mind of any perfonof reHecftion and underltand
iug, of theirfufficitncy, and permanency ; yet, they
will require time to be brought into full opera
tion. The public exigencies may seem to require
immediate and extraordinary exertions ; but the
point of ability, is the point of utility ; and un
duly straining upon the patriotifin of the coun
try, in order to realize an objecft not easily within
our reach, will place this moll desirable event,
the ellablWlinient of the public credit, in a peril
ous iituation. The creditors of the Union, and
of the refpedtive States, will doubtless prefer a
fyftetn of certainty, upon a scale, within thecom
pafs of the public ability, to a widely extended
circle of paper promises that mull finally be loft
in the sea of speculation. What cannot be per
formed {\iou\d never be prowifed: for, as one of
the ancients hath said, the people that violate their
promises, make the Cods their enemies.
NEW-YORK, NOVEMBER 28.
Wednesday lad being the anniversary of the evacuation of this
city by the British troops, and of the entrance of the American
army, colors were displayed at the fort* and at noon a federal sa
lute wis fired at the battery.
In mod of the States of the Union, it has been
thought proper by their respective Executives to
republifli the proclamation of the President of the
United States, recommending the observance of
a day of public thanklgiving, with some additi
ons; but in this State, so fully persuaded were
the Executive, that it would have a general and
prompt attention paid to it without this formality,
that the proclamation has been left to operate on
its own intrinsic, federal principles. The perfua
lion if we may judge from the example of this
city, was well founded.
Of all the fubjetfts that come under the public
cognizance in a free State, there is none that ex
cites greater uneasiness, jealousy, and debate than
that of finance ; and yet there is none attended
with greater difficulty in its management, and on
which greater candor, patience and good humor
ought to be exercised.
THEATRE JOHN-SIR tET.
The Entertainment at the Theatre, on Tuesday evening laf>,
appeared, by the rep<ated plaudits, to give the fulieft fatisfa&ion
to a very croudedhoufe : The felettions for the Evening were mads
with judgment—and animated by the presence of the iiluftrious
personages, who honored the exhibition, the Players exerted
their best abilities. The Pieces performed were the Toy—The
Critic, arid anew Comic Sketch, entitled Darby'sßeturn.
The latter piece is the production of the fame ingenious hand, who
hath already contributed so much to the entertainment of the pub*
lie by The Father, or American Shandy if m." " Darby's Re
turn'' is replete with the happieit iliufions to interesting events,
and very delicately turned compliments. On the appearance of
The President, the audience rose, and received him with th<±
warmelt acclamations—the genuine effufions of tiie hearts o£
Freemen.
Tile ship Mafliichufetts, burthen 800 tons, Job
Prince, commander, is advertised to fail fiom
Bolton for Canton, in China, in February next,
and to return to the port of New York in Mat,
1791.
The Mail froth NeW-York to Philadelphia, and
vice versa afterthe firft day of January next, will
be dispatched five times in each week, leaving
Nfew-York every day (except Saturday and Sun
day) at 8 o'clock, A. M. and Philadelphia the
lame day, at 9 A. M.
The friends to the rights of human nature, and
particularly every American, mult feel iijterefted
in the commotions which now agitate the kingdom
of France. The prospect that opened upon that
people, of a compleat emancipation from a ltate
of abjecft defpatilm, imprefled the molt pleafinp;
sensations upon every philanthropic mind. Thac
they may finally eftablifli a free government, is
most: devoutly to be wished. Recent accounts, how
ever leeiu to corroborate tiie hackneyed sentiment,
that mankind arc alike in every age. A trium
phant majority too seldom discovers a proper
sense of the rights of the minority. Distinctions
will obtain in all governments ; they are truly
eltimable only in free States ; for there, they are
held by the molt precious and desirable tenure
the good will of the people, founded on merit,
and fandiioned by the laws. However, in France
a very refpecftable and formidable body, corapo
ledof clergy and laity, has long been eitabliflied ;
endowed it istrue, with privileges and immuni*
ties, degrading to the people, and hostile totheir
rights. These exemptions the nobility have most
nobly divested themselves of: but their facri
ficesdo not feemto be fufficient; ajid from con
founding and involving all diftintfttons, the tran
sition to (tripping i the Sovereign of the eflen
tials of monarchy is very natural. Happy will
it be for the French nation, if the excell'es of a
spirit of reformation do not combine an interest
against the National Aflembly, that may prove
paramount to all their fine spun, democratical
theories of government.
EXTRACT.
YE Fathers, ye generousprotedors of Ameri
can liberty, you may form Conftitutionsand laws,
thatfliall closely approximate even perfection it
felf ; butunlefsyou enable your people to fee the
beauty, the worth of them, all will be in vain !
Youmayaswell " cast pearl tofwine." Would
you preserve to yourselves and your posterity the
blessings and happiness of your dear bought re
publican government, or Indeed your government
itfelf, you must encourage a general education
among all ranks of soCiety ! You mult prescribe,
adopt and bring into operation, a system of
education, by which the minds of your people,
in general, from generation to generation, may
be lo far enlightened as to discover and realize the
true principles and excellence of civil liberty !
And I fee not why this may not be done. The
Americans, as a nation, are already the best; in
ftrutfted people under the funi There are, per
haps, individuals in other countries, who have
made greater advances in arts and sciences ; but
1 presume there is not a nation on earth, where
the people at large are so well informed. Why
maytheynot be raised one degree higher in point
of education? Were the people abfolutly oblig
ed to maintain regular schools, and in such num
ber that all the children might be taught, would
not the necellary knowledge soon be difFufed
throughout the continent ? O ! why may we not
flatter ourselves that it was reserved for America
to convince the world that a republican govern
ment may exist in its utmolt purity to the final
close of human nature ?
ARRIVALS.—NEW. YORK.
Wtitttfiay. Ship Speightftown, Jackson, Madeira.
Sloop Cato, Darre), Kingston, 45 dayj.
Sloop Sally, Lawrence, Cape-Francois, 24 days.
Sloop Nancy, Baltimore.
Sloop Nabby, Gardner, Charleston, 10 days.
ThurfJay. Sloop Sally, Raifbeck, St. Johns, N. B. 10 days.
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Gazette of the United States circulates in every part of
the Vnion—being honored by fuhferibers in Georgia, South ana North
Carolina, Virginia, Mary/and, Delaware, Pennjslvania, New-Jerfy t
New-York, Connetticut, Rhode-lfland, MaJTachufetts, New-Hampshire %
and Dijlritl of Maine, Canada, Europe, and the IVeJI Indies. This ex
tenpve circulation renders it a proper vehicle for Advertisem * nt $
of a general, commercial and governmental import:—By the particular
desire and advice, therefore, oj a number of its patrons, this paper
will be open for the reception of advertisements of the above.defcript ion ;
which as they will convey intelligence of aninterefling nature, the Edi
tor hopes their insertion will meet the approbation of his friends in
general. Should the number at any time amount to more than a page in
the Gazette, they will be given in a Supplement.
JOHN FEN NO.
New-York, Nov. 28, 17&9.MR. ADAMS'S LETTERS.
LETTER XIV.
Amsterdam, Oct'. 26, 1780.
SIR,
p | ''HE fourteenth quefbion is, " IVhat is the quan-
A " tity of paper money in circulation ? IVhat
" credit the inhabitants have for it, in their daily
" bujinefs ? li hat dejigns the inhabitants have by
" maintaining its credit P What by preventing its
" increase ? And in -what manner do they realize it ?"
The quantity of paper bills in circulation, 011
the 18th of March lalt, was two hundred millions
of paper dollars.
The Congress stated the value of it, upon an
average, at forty for one ; amounting, in the
whole, to five millions, of silver dollars, or one
million and a quarter sterling. This they did,
by resolving to receive one iilver dollar in lieu of
forty paper ones, in the payment of taxes. This
■was probably allowing more than the full value
for tlie j&per ; because, by all accounts, the bills
pafledfrom hand to hand, in private tranfat r tions,
at fixtyor seventy for one.
The designs of the inhabitants, in preserving
its credit as much as they can, are very good
and laudable. The designs are, that thty may
have a fixed and certain medium, both for exter
nal and internal commerce : That every man
may have an equal profit from his industry, and
for his commodities : That private and public
debts may be justly paid : And every man may
pay an equal and proportional fhareof the public
expences. and this is their design in preventing
its increase ; because it is impossible, if the quan
tity is increased, to prevent the depreciation of
the whole in circulation.
They realize it in varions ways. Some have
lent it to the public, and received loan-office cer
tificates for it, upon interest, which are to be paid
In proportion to their value in silver at the time
of their dates. Some purcliafe with it the pro
duce of the country, which they export to the
Weft-Indies, and to Europe ; and, by this means,
supply the French and Spanish fleets and armies,
both upon the continent of America, and the Weft-
India islands : Others purchafemerchandizes im
ported with it : Others purchase bills of ex
change upon France, Spain, See. Others pur
chase silver and gold with it ; and others pur
chase houses and lands.—Others have paid their
debts with it, to such a degree, that the people
of America were never so little in debt, in their
private capacities, as at present.
I have the honor to be, See.
JOHN ADAMS.
CONGRESS of the UNITED STATES.
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Wednesday the Fourth
of March, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Nine.
An ACT to recognize and adapt to the Constitution oj
the United States the ejlab/ifh?neut of the TRCors
r n't fed under the resolve of the United States in
Congress afembled, and for other purposes therein
7nentioned.
BE it enaHed by the Senate and House of Represen
tatives of the United States of America in Con
gress afembleij, That the ellablilliment contained
jii the resolve of the late Congress, of the third
day of October, one thonfnnd seven hundred and
eighty seven, except as to ihe mode of appoint
ing the officers,anil alio as is hereinafter provided,
be, and the some is hereby recognized to be the
e&ablifhirient for the troops in the service of the
United States.
And be it further enabled, That the pay and al
lowances of the (aid troops be the fame as have
been ellabliffied by the United States in Congress
allenibled, by their resolution of the twelfth of
April, one thousand seven hundred and eighty
five.
And be it further enacted, That all commissioned
and non-conimiilioned officers and privates, who
are or fhail be in the service of the United States,
ihall take the following oaths or affirmations, to
wit: " I, A. B. do solemnly fwearor affirm (as
the cafe may be) that I will support the Con
stitution of the United States." " I, A. B. do
" solemnly swear or affirm (as the cafe maybe)
" to bear true allegiance to the United States
" of America, and to serve them honestly aud
" faithfully against all their enemies or oppofers
" whatsoever, and to observe and obey the orders
" of the Prefidentof the United States of Ameri
" ca, and the orders of the officers appointed
" over me."
And be it further enatted, That the said troops
ffiall be governed by the the rules and articles of
war which have been established by the United
States in Congress aflembled, or by such rules and
articles of war, as may hereafter by law be efta
bli.' ed.
And be it further enatfed, That for the purpose
of protecting the inhabitants of the frontiers of
the United States from the hostile incursions of
the Indians, the Preiident is hereby authorized
to call into service from time to time, such part
of the militia of the States refpetftively, as he
may judge neceflary for the purpose aforefaid ;
•and that their pay and fubfiftcnce while in service,
be the fame as the pay and subsistence of the
troops abovementioned.
And be it further enafied, That this adtlhall con
tinue and be in force until the end of the next
fellions of Congress, and no longer.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House oj Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejident of the United
and Prejident oj the Senate.
APPROVED, SEPTEMBER THE 29th, 1789.
GEORGE WASHINGTON* Prejident of the United States.
Nsw-York, November, 28, 1789.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sept. 19,1789.
GENERAL ACCOUNT of ANTICIPATIONS.
No. 11.
A PARTICULAR STATEMENT of WAR
RANTS drawn by the late Board of Trea
sury 011 Mi chael Hi li eg as, late Treasurer of
the United States, which remain unpaid, and
were comprised in the Estimate made by the Se
cretary ot theTrealury of the United States,and
by him reported to the House of Representatives
of the United States.
Date of || y || Jh whofefavot. l| .. ,
Warrants, jj '|| Department, andfor what drawn. || °'' 9 S '
For the PAY of the ARMY.
1788. 1015. Joseph Howell, jun. Paymafter
6. General, being on Account of Pay
due to the Troops in service, for the
Year 1788, 20,000
Dcc. 31* 1043. Ditto, being to discharge Pay and
to Forage due to the Army, up to the
1051.31 ft of December, 1788, viz.
No. 1043, Six Thou. Dol. 6000
1044, ditto, 6009
1045, ditto, 6oco
1046, ditto, 6000
1047, ditto, 6oao
1048, ditto, 6000
1049, ditto, 6000
,0 5°» Four ditto, 4000
*°£i, ditto, 4000
50,000
Dcdufl so much paid, 4,086 45
Q c , . 45>93 l 45
1709. 1005. Ditto, being lor the Art-ears of
the four months specie pay, for the
Year 1783. granted to tne non-com
millioned officers and privates of the
late Virginia line, 3is°o
1086. Ditto drawn in like manner with
the foregoing, and for the fame pur
pose, 3,000
1087. Ditto, ditto, and for fame purpose, 2,000
1088. Ditto, ditto, and for fame purpole, 2,522 17
1089. Ditto, being on account oi subsist
ence due to the officers of the Vir
ginia line, for the year 1782 and
1783, ' 1,626 76
Feb. 0. 1090. Ditto, being for the arrears of the
four months specie pay, for the year
due to the non-commiflioned
officers and privates of Col. Pofey's
Detachment of the Virginia line, 3>to2
1091. Ditto, being on account of the ar
rearage of fubfiftcnce due the officers
of the Virginia line, for the yeari
,783 3)539 3 ,
1092. Ditto, hcing sot* the arrears of pay,
for the Year 1783, due to Col. Gib
fon's dttachment of the Virginia
l'"e, 3l4 g<o 60
iog 3 . Ditto, being for the arrears of the
four months specie pay, granted to
the non-commiflionrd officer! and
privates of the late North-Carolina
line, for the Year 1783, 4,i00
1094. Ditto, drawn in like manner with
the foregoing, and for the fame pur
pofr. 3,500
1095. Ditto, ditto, and for the fame
purpose, 3iOOQ
1096. Do. do. for the fame purpose, 3,000
1097. Do. do. for the fame purpose, 3,320 60
CLOTHING DEPARTMENT. 105 ' 9 ' 5 49
1 787- ?5°- Stephen Bruce, for provisions and
Sept. 10. sundry articles in the clothing and
Quartcrmafter's department, furnilh
ed the troops in the State of MafTa
chufctts, between the 21ft of Novem
ber 1J 86, and the 2 ill of June, 1787. 66q 51
1709. *099* W llham Hill, being on account of
March 2. his contrail of the 4th of February
last, for clothing the troops in fer-
Vlcc . 6,000
Dedu£l so much paid on
4.33° 39
March 3. ltoi. Royal Flint, for so much paylbte '' 669 3j
Oil the Ift of Oflober, 1789, agrec
bly to his contrast with the Board of
Treasury, being for clothing, See.
supplied the troops in service, in the
y^ r 1 "S®. 3 ,000
tio2. Ditto, for the fame purpose, o 000
1103. Ditto, for ditto, *
1104. Ditto, forditto, g' 000
110 5 . Ditto, for ditto, 75
17,788 71
Amount ofantici'pations'by the late Boardof f reafury, 189,906 34
. Treasury of the United States.
Rcgjter's Ojtce, September 24, i 7 BS.
JOSEPH NOURSE, Rrgifler.
EXTRACT.
Avarice may pile ; robbery may plunder; mines
may be opened ; hidden treasures maybe difcov.
ered ; gamesters may win cash ; conquerors
may win kingdoms ; but all such means of ac
quiring riches are transient and determinable—
while industry and commerce,are the natural, the
living, the never-failing fountains from whence
the wealth of this world can alone be taught to
flow. 6
PRICE CURRENT. NEW-YORK ~
NOVEMBER 28.
Dollars at Bs.
Jamaica Spirits, -
Antigua Rum, - _ _ *5/3-
St. Croix, do. - . 4 fa.
Country, do. - - 4./6.
Mobiles, - - . ,r V'°.
Brandv, - r r
Geneva, - . . " b f
Do. in cases, - » 2 gr 5/
Muscovado - _ g c ; a *9/
Loaf, do. - J ' <f
Lump, do. - .
Pepper, - - .
Pimento, - - » «,/; 3/*
Coffee, - . Jf / f
Indigo, (Carolina) - . ,'r
Do. French, - - _ >U ?•
Rice, - . . s , f . ,B /
Superfine Flour, - . Jp d **£
Common do. - 39/ . U
Indian Meal, ...
Corn, (Southern) - " P '' h "K
?°v ( fi^ thcr 7 ,) " 4/3- . 4)6!
Beef, firft quality, - . is f. a fo
Pork, firft quality, - -70r. a -ir
Oats, - . . [T
. F ,' a!< t ed ' " - 5/6 « 5 / 9 .
Ship bread per cwt. - . J'-t
Country refined bar-iron, - 281 a 001
Do blooinery, . . 2 ,/ a
.Swedes do. - - .
Kuflia do. - _
u- • 30J.
Pig-iton, . . Bliof.aql
German steel, per lb. - . gj
Nails American, by calk. per. lb. 4d. - ,L'
Do. do. do. 6d. - , ;,7
Do. do. do. Bd. . . q y
Do. do. do. jod.
Do. do. do* 13d. \ *
Do. do. do. 2od. " "J/.
Do. do. do, 24d. j
Pot alh, per ton, - . 39], e . 0 j
Pearl alh, - .
Bees-wax per lb. . . 2 A.
Mackaiel per barr. . . 2Sf. a 30/
Herrings, - - -18/
Mahogany, Jamaica, per foot, - 10^
Dominico, do. gj
Honduras, do. - . - ',d.
Logwood unchippcd, per ton. - . 81.
Do. chipped. - . . j 4 |.
2 inch white oak plank, perm. - 101.10f.
t inch do. ...
2 inch white pine plank, . . 81.
1$ inch d». . . 61.10/ i
t inch do. . . jl. , 0 f
2 inch pitch pine do. - , 101.
1$ inch do. r . 61. icf,
1 inch do. - 4J,
Pitch pine scantling, . . 31. Sf.
Cyprus 2 feet lhingles ? - - 11. io/T
Do. 22 inch do. s 11. Sf.
Cedar 2 inch do. - . tl. 10/
Do. 22 inch do. . . i\. 6f.
Do. 18. inch do. - . 18f
Butt white oak Haves, - —
Pipe do. do. . . . 91.
Hoglhead do. do. . - 61. l°/I
Do. do. heading, - .81.
Irilh barrel do. Haves, - - 3 1. $f.
Hoglhead red oak do. . - {1. if.
Do. French do. . , 5U
Hoglhead hoopj, - 41.
White oak square timber per square foot, 10i.
Red wood, per ton, - . 281.
Fullick, ... 10).
Beaver, per lb. - . 12\f. a 16f.
Otter per Ikin, . gf. 32/
Grey fox, ... 4/].
Martin, ... 4/10
Racoon, . . . a ~J6.
Mulkrat, . . . iod.ai^d.
Beaver hats, - . . 64f.
Callor do. .... 4if.
Chocolate, . . 141/.
Cocoa, . . -jnf. a 80s.
Cotton, . . . Ifq.
Tar, pr. bar. . - 18/.
Pitch, . - 16/.
Turpentine, . - 16f.
Tobacco, James River, - 4J. " 3 j
Do. York, - .4d. a 3lli
Do. Rappahanock, - .21i a 3^.
Do. Maryland, coloured, - s¥-
Do. Wellern-lhore, . - id. d
Lead in pigs, prewt. - - 6°f-
Do. bars, ... 68/.*
Do. Shot, . . 68/
Red lead, . 6$C
White do. dry, . . 9j>
White do. in oil, . . 5/. iy-
Salt.petre hams, . - 7li-
Spermaceti candles, . - 3fi
Mould do. . . nrf. a if.
Tallow dipt, - .
Soap, . . £d. * id.
Caltile soap, . . gj. a tod.
Englilh cheese, pr. lb. -
Country do. - . . $i-
Butter, . . . if-
Hyson tea, . . us. « ™f-
Sequin do. . . 6J6-
Bohea do. . . 2/3. " 2 fy-
Ginseng, . . $f a 4^o
- Poland, - - 7^'
Snuff, _ 2J3.
Allum fait, water mealure, pr. bulh. 3/6-
Liverpool do. - - 2 /-
Madeira wine, pr. pipe, - 60/. ll 9°^'
Port, ... 46'-
Lilbon, pr. gal. . tf.
Teneriff, - - 4/*
Fyall, . . . 3/3-
Dutch gun-powder, pr. cwt. - 'j
Nail rods, pr. ton, - - 3 j-
Lintfced oil, pr. gal. - -
Whale do. pr. barrel, - s°/ a
Spermaceti do, . - t
Sliake-down hhds. - - 3J
Publi/hed by JOHN FENNO, No. 9>
Lank, nearthcOfwcgo-Markei, Nbw-Yurk- £8 °'f"