[No. LX.j
THE TABLE T. No. LX.
" Among a people well-educated, the ladies have
more flattery bejlowed on them than the gentlemen t and
it begins sooner."
IT cannot be supposed that women have
naturally more prideof characteror more
personal vanity, than men. Both alike have
their paflions and propenlities in nature. The
different modes of male and female education
create a difference in opinions and manners, which
is merely artificial. Vanity, when it is well
managed, is perhaps one of the moit ufeful quali
ties, that either sex pollefles. It is so elastic a
lpringof action as generally stimulates very vi
goroully to the attainment of the object it has in
view. The hero glories in his martial achieve
ments ; the rich man in his riches ; the strong
man in the ftrengthof his arms. But the effeifts
ofvanity are no where foconfpicuoufly, orfo ufe
fully displayed as in regulating the female cha
racter and conduct. It is therefore peculiarly
elfential that it should be cultivated in women,
becaule the cuftomsof society cxpofe the actions
of a female to a scrutiny rigorously exact. She
must be restrained from error by motives Angu
larly strong and lively, or her deportment will
scarcely bear such rigor of inspection.
The flattery bestowed on the ladies by all civiliz
ed people operates upon their vanity, in such a
degree, as to guard them against the temptations,
ty which they are on all fides aflailed. Fondness
for personal decorations, andatafte for elegance
highly cultivated, form an almost impregnable
barrier against the allurements of vice, or the
art 9 of pernicious seduction. It must be confefled,
however, this paflion may be misapplied, and
through the address of artful men, may become a
snare rather than a protection to the unwary fe
male. But the usual efleet of it is different, and
it much oftener protects virtue than betrays it.
Those, who set the highest value upon charac
ter, will be the molt cautious to avoid those stains
that defile it. The complimentary language, in
which ladies are frequently addrelled, encreafes
the ardor of their pride. Of course, they are
less ealily beguiled in to actions that will expose
them to alofs of reputation, than they would be,
liad they less elevated ideas of the worth of cha
racter. The partaffigned to females, in the ma
nagement of domestic concerns, makes it requi
site that they should observe the ftriiteft purity
of manners. Thus it appears that flattery is at
tended with real utility, whatever may be the mo
tive thatgivesrife to it. Indeed when it becomes
a general custom to gratify ladies with polite and
flattering expreflions, men acquire habits of po
liteness as a matter of course, and use such a ci
vility, when they are prompted by no other mo
tives, than merely to appear civil and well-bred.
The mi (application of flattery, in some instances,
should not be urged as an argument against the
general advantages it produces. It saves fifty
characters, where it destroys one.
Pride is a paflion,that with proper management,
may controul many of the excefles of otlier pas
sions. A proud man will scarcely become akna
viih one, and he must lose part of his pride before
he can become a drunkard. With women it has
Hill greater efficacy. The felf-denials they so
cheerfully bear, in many instances, where men
give themselves indulgence, is owing very much
to those lively sentiments of pride, which become
a predominating motive of action. Those who
direct the education of females should give great
attention to the manner in which flattery is paid
to ihem. They should learn to prize such
'virtues and accomplishments as are in themselves
most valuable. The inconvenience, that some
women have derived fron. being too much flat
tered, proceeds from an improper choice of the
qualifications that have been made the ob»
jeets of commendation. When care is taken
to inspire them with just ot character,
their veneration for it can never be too much en
creased by complimentsandpralfes.
MR. ADAMS'S LETTERS.
LETTER IX.
Amsterdam, Oct. 16, 17S0.
S 7 R,
THE .ninth question is, " Hc-.u flrong the Eng
lijh land force is in A?nerica ? How Jlrong it
vas at the beginning ? And -whether it increafcs or
diminijhes ?
ACCORDING to the eftiroates laid before par
liament, the army under General Howe, General
Carlton, and General Burgoyne, amount to fifty
five thonfand men, besides volunteers, refugees,
tories, in lhort all the recruits raised in Canada,
«iul all other parts of America, under whatever
denomination. If wc suppose that all these, in
SATURDAY, November 7; 17^9.
Canada, and elsewhere, amounted to five thousand
men, the whole, according to this computation,
amounted to sixty tlioufand land forces.
This eltimate, however, mull have been made
from the number of regiments, and must have
supposed them all to be full.
General Howe, however, in his Narrative, page
4J, tells us, that his whole force, at the time when
he landed on Long-Island, in 1776, amounted to
twenty thousand one hundred and twenty one
rank and file—of which one thousand fix hundred
and seventy-seven were sick.
By a regular return of General Burgoyne's ar
my, after its captivity in 1777, it amounted, in
Canadian provincials, British and German troops,
to upwards of ten thousand men. We may sup
pose, that four thousand men were left in Cana
da for the garrison of Quebec, Montreal, and the
great number of other posts in that province. To
these numbers, if we add the oilicers, we may
fairly allow the whole land force at that time to
be forty tlioufand combatants.
Tliis is all the answer that I ain able to give,
from memory, to the quellion, " How ftrongthe
British army was }"
In order to give an answer to the other, " How
strong it is !" let us consider :
1. There has been no large reinforcement ever
feat to America since that time. They havefent
some troops every year—but these never amount
ed to more than recruits, and, probably, rather
fall short of filling up the vacancies which were
made in the cOurfeof the year, by desertion and
death, by sickness and the sword—Co that, upon
the whole, I think it may be fafely said, that the
army never has been greater than it was in 1 776.
But we mull: deduct from this ten thousand
men taken with Burgoyne,one thousand HeJlians
taken at Trenton and Princeton, and indeed,
many more, taken by two or three hundred at a
time, upon other occaiions.
In the next place, we must dedud:, I suppose,
about ten thousand more, sent, since the French
war, to Jamaica, St. Lucia, and the
other Weft-India iiiands.
So that, upon the whole, I think we make an
ample allowance, if we state the whole number
nowin New-York,Carolina, and Georgia,includ
ing all refugees,&c. at twenty thousand men, of
ficers included.
This is, in part, an answer to the question,—
" Whether their force increases or diminilhes ?"
But it fliould be farther considered, that there is
a constant and rapid consumption of their men.
Manydie of sickness, numbers desert, there have
been frequent fkirmiflies, in which they have ever
had more men killed and wounded than the A
mericans:—And now, so many of their troops are
in Carolina and Georgia, where the climate is so
unhealthy, that there is great reason to expecft
that thegreateft part of that army will die of dis
ease. And whoever considers the efforts the Eng
lish have made in Germany, Ireland, Scotland,
and England, as well as in America, for seven
years fucceifiTely, to raise men—the vast bounties
they have offered, and the few they have obtain
ed :—Whoever eonfiders the numbers they must
lose, this year, by the fevei ity of duty, and by
fickuefs, in New-York, Carolina, Georgia, and
theWeft-India islands—and the numbers that have
been taken going to Quebec, North-America, the
East and Weft-Indies, will be convinced, that all
the efforts they can make will not enable them
for the future to keep their numbers good.
I have the honor to be, &c.
JOHN ADAMS.
MR. CALKOEN.
THE OBSERVER. No. 111.
The public debt of the union may be so managed as to
prove a great national benefit.
FEW evils are so great but wisdom and appli
cation may derive from them eventual ad
vantages, which -will more than balance the loss
at firft apprehended. Ot all the evils consequent
upon your late glorious war, the immense debt
incurred by the public hath been esteemed the
great-eft, and one for which a remedy was the
inoft difficult without doing such injufticeto indi
viduals, as must excite the abhorence of lioneft
men. That this hath as yet been a perplexed bu
(iuefs, all will allow—That this debt with its past
management, hath diftrefled both the people and
the creditors is undeniable—but we ought not to
impute those diftrettes to the debt itfelf, which
have arofealtnoft wholly from impolitic manage
ment. The people of this country were as new
in the arts of finance, as those of war—in the last
you have excelled and conquered ; and in the firft
may soon become eminent, iffome popular preju
dices donor prevent. It is not strange that your
finances were deranged, and the people and ere-
\Publijbid on IV edutjday and Saturday ,'j
ditors both in a state of fuff'eringunder an admi
liiltration without lyftem or energy, and which
was unable to bring any exertions to a point.
To load the people with enormous taxes would
be wicked and impolitic, and for this there is 110
need. In foine future numbers of this paper, I
shall endeavor to point out the means of doing
such jnftice to the public creditors, that if reason
able men, they will feel thenifelves contented,
without a burden on the people half as heavy as
they have borne. At present I will mention a
number of national benefits to be derived from the
public debt, if managed wifely. There are very
few instances in which an individual can be bene
fited by credit, beyond his present ability to pay ;
but Wvth a nation the cafe is different. Great Bri
tain lies under the lieavieft debt of any nation on
earth—and this very debt hath in a number of
instances been the means of Iter prefcrvation, by
interesting rich subjects to afford their aid, w'hen
110 other could be obtained—they advanced new
sums to preserve those national funds, in which
they had a great property already vested.
Tlii) we hope America will never have need to
profit by her debt in this way, there are other ad
vantages she may derive. A public debt is a band
of union, and interests a powerful and opulent
class of citizens tofupport the government under
which it is contracted. An increase of transfer
able property is another advantage which may be
derived from the national debt. Commerce, ma
nufactures, and the conveniencies of life, require
that a certain proportion of property be of such a
uature as may be easily negociated or transferee!
from man toman. Of this kind are articles of
barter, gold and silver coin, and bills of credit.—
TodeteVmins exactly how great a proportion of
:his kind of property would be a public advantage
is impossible. Many of the belt judges imagine
that the whole national debt, upon a proper estab
lishment, 'would not be too great for this extensive
and growing country. There has been a specieS
as transferal commonly called speculating in pub
lic securities, which is but a kind of gaming, and
is attended with 110 advantage to the State
:his hasarifen not as much from an undue quanti
ty, as from a distrust of public faich, and a want
offyftetfi in the finance of the Union, and of par
ticular States.—Let this debt be funded in honor
mdjuftice, and it will foonhave a regular value,
:lie transferal will no longer be the work of fpe
rulators, but take place between citizens of ano
ther character, the commercial and the induftri
sus, as their own interest may require, and thus
become an immense ftockfor the benefit of trade
md manufactures. The true interest of agricul
ture and commerce naturally embrace each other,
and in the state of this country cannot be fepera
ted. All clalfes of citizens have right to protec
tion for thenifelves and their property; but if
there be anyone which hath the best claim to be
regarded in public measures, it is the American
Farmers, as they constitute the most numerous
part of the people. The national debt may be so
funded as to produce great consequential advan
tages to the F artners—and prove the means of their
procuring a much better price for their produce
and raw materials, than can otherwise be expect
ed. So far as relates to the present question, a
landed property may be considered as fixed, and
not transferable. 111 anew country, and where
land is cheap as in the United. States, the inhabi
tants when they have power to do it, will reft their
property in solid foil. The produce of the Farm
ers land is loose and transferable property, and.
that it may bear a just price, it is neceflary there
should be an equal quantity of property within
the community, in such a situation that it may be
commanded to make pay to the farmer, for the
fruit of his toil.
The produce of the country and our raw ma
terials for manufactures, will always command a
just price in some part of the world ; and it is the
business of commerce to collect and tranfporc
them to the place in which they are wanted.
If foreigners are under the neceffityof coming
to us and collecting the articles they need, the
price received by the farmer will be limited as
they please. Make the supposition that one half
the property now in commerce within the UnitcJ
States, were to be annihilated ; tho' our produce
might bear the fame price in the markets of Eu»
rope, it would probably diminish the home price
one third. The purchasers would be few—the
markets would be over stocked—the produce of
your farms being in its nature perishable, must
be soon vended, and the remaining half of com
mercial property would command out of your
hands, nearly the fame quantity of produce, as
the whole would have done,if preserved. In this
cafe the loss would be as sensibly felt by the far
mers as by the merchant. It Ls always the cafe in
a new and agricultural country, that the trans*ferable property is in too fniall quantity for the
advantage ot' tliofe who hold and till the ground.
At present tlie principal of the national debt can
not be paid, but with a little honeity and policy
it may be placed in a situation fafe for the credi
tors and beneficial to all clad'es of citizens.
For the benefit of the agricultural interest, 1
would not witfi the debt to be annihilated, if it
were confident with jultice. Let it be honellly
funded, it mull remain in its nature transferable,
and will be animmenfe bank for all kinds of bufi
jiefs. The situation of the United Statesis such,
your agriculture so extensive and increasing, and
the quantity of yourprodace so great, that unless
by fomepolicy of this kind you fixa certain quan
tity of property in its nature negociable, the mar
ket will be overltocked, and the loss will in the
end be borne by the farmer.
Suppose the surplus produce of a farmer be
yond his own consumption, to equal one hundred
bulhels of wheat. If there be a jult proportion
of negociable property, each bu/hel will be worth
five (hillings ; but if this proportion be a little
leflened, eachbufhel will command only four (hil
lings- and the whole loft to the farmer will be
five pounds ; which is a sum four times so great
as he need to pay in taxes, to place the whole
American debt on honorable funds. To execute
this bufinels, honesty, and great abilities are re
quilite—the new treasury department promifcs
you both, and I make no doubt but the debt we
have lamented, will soon be a great national ad
vantage.
PARIS, August 29.
M. Neckar's Memorial to the National Aftmbly on
Thursday lajl, on the J]ate of the finances and the
success oj the loan of thirty Millions.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, AUGUST 27.
The deliberations of the Afleinbly wefe inter
rupted by the reading of M. Neckar's Memorial,
the heads of which are as follow:
The Minister announces the little success which
the loan has met with hitherto, the subscriptions
of which to the present day amount only to two
millions lix hundred thousand livres.
The causes which he afligns for the bad success
of it are,
The reduction of the interest to 4 and a half
per cent, instead of j per cent, as he proposed.
The retrenchment of some of the conditions of
it, favorable to the lenders.
And forgetting to mark the periods of its reim
bursement, as well as to pay the proper honorary
compliment to the lenders, for their patriotic
zeal in making advances to the public Treasury
from their own funds.
M. Neckar then proposes to give up this loan
of 30 millions, and open another of 80 millions,
at 5 percent, reimbursable in ten years, one tenth
every year:—this loan to be advanced by the lend
ers, one half in ready money, the other in con
tracts of the ancient public debt now becoming
due, which is to bear a like interest of 5 per cent.
The Minister thinks that this accommodation
of converting old contracts into new ones, feeing
the loss the former are daily experiencing on the
public exchange, will ensure the fuccel's of this
loan of 80 millions, and bring 40 millions of rea
dy money into the Treasury.
He lays before the Allembly the neceflity of
supporting public credit, which loses daily very
rapidly from the loss which the revenues of the
State fuffer from the unfortunate situation of Go
vernment. But he is of opinion that this credit
jnay be kept up by the public labors of the Aflem
blyonthe confederation of the Finances.
M. Neckar further announces the derangement
which exists in some of the provinces in collecting
the fait duties, and proposes to the Allembly to fix
the price of (alt at fix sous the pound ; he thinks
that notwithstanding this loss at fir ft fight of 3c
millions annually 011 the produce of this tax, the
increased consumption of this article, and the
diminution of expcncesin preventing the contra
band tradeofit, willtendgreatly tolellen thislofs.
The Bilhop of Autun supported M. Neckar in
every particular ; he spoke a confidcrable time,
and with much fatisfatftion to his hearers, 011 the
nature and importance of the national credit;
he pointed out 1110 ft clearly the neceflity of sup
porting it, by declaring that the public debt and
the interest of it never ought to be fubjeift to anj
reduction, even inafked under the titlcofimpofmg.
He concluded by demanding,
1 ft. That the Allembly fliould admit a loan of
80 millions, leaving the terms of it to the execu
tive power.
2d. That it fliould publifii a declaration confirm
ing its former decrees, which place the creditors
of the State under the protection of the honor and
loyalty of the nation, which it fliould be
formally announced that the public debt can ne
ver be fubjedt to any reduction.
3d. The establishment of a Committee of twelve
Members, who are to act in concert with the Mi
nisters in rcftoring the finances, and who fliall
make their report four times a week to the Na
tional AHeinbly, who are to deliberate on the
means of re-eftablifhingtlie finances, and propor
tioning the rcceipt to the expenditure.
4th. The formation of provincial atlemblies.
The Aflembly only took the two firll articles of
the Bifliop of Autun's motion into consideration,
which were,
To acknowledge the loan of 80 millions; and,
to pais a folenm decree, which shall pronounce
that the public debt can never befubjecft to any re
duction.
These two articles were vehemently attacked
by some Members, but victorioully defended by
M. Chapelier, Count de Mirabeau, Due. de Lian
court, and the Archbilhop of Aix.
One of the deputies of Tourraine acquainted
the AHembly of the patriotic intentions of the
principal citizens of that province aflenibled at
Tours. They have voted a voluntary fubferip
tion to raise a patriotic fund by anticipation of the
amount of the taxes of the firft fix months of this
year, and have agreed that those of the year 1790
(hall be equally anticipated and paid every month
in advance ; that the more affluent citizens have
resolved to make advances for those wliofe fortunes
will not permit them to make like facrifiees.
They have besides opened another fubfeription
fund ; where gratuitous benefactions, and volun
tary fubferiptions, in favor of the country are paid
by those citizens who wiih to contribute above the
ordinary taxes of the country.
The city of Tours has communicated its inten
tions to other cities and commonalties of the pro
vince, and this patriotic zeal has had the mofl
happy effect throughout the province. It further
petitions the Aflembly to fandtion its intentions
by a public decree, cloathcd with the Royal Au
thority, and inviting the other provinces of the
kingdom to imitate its example.
Oneof the deputies of Normandy said, that the
city of Rouen wished to acl in the fame manner.
The Aflembly then voted the public thanks to
the province of Tourraine, and ordered a copy of
its resolutions to be sent to all parts of the kingdom.
August 28. The firft article of the new form
of the constitution, aspropofed by M. Meunier the
preceding day was then read, which is as follows :
" The French Government is a monarchical
Government. There is no authority in France fu
periorto the law. The King only reigns through
it, and when he does not command in the name
of the law, he cannot command obedience."
Yellerday [Friday] the public funds rose near
two per cent, inconsequence of what pafled in the
National aflembly on Thursday.
LONDON, August 25.
The Hiltory of the Decline of the Roman Em
pire is not read ar court, tho it Hands in the roy
al library, ornamented in superb binding. The
introduction of indecent and profane paflages,
have given offence to an illustrious lady—and in
deed, it mult be confefled, there are feveral,both
in the learned languages and in English, which
a delicate man could not read in the hearingofa
inodeft woman.
Father O'Leary, the celebrated Irish Roman
Catholic Priell—he who told a Bifliop, who ridi
culed purgatory—" Your Lord/hip may gofarthtr
and fare worse"—is preparing a criticism on the
above work, so far as it relates to the conduct of
the church.
Although deprived of fight, Lord North is not
blind to intellectual enjoyments. When disen
gaged from conversation, of which he is ltill the
life, his Lordship is generally employed inliften
iiig to his daughters, who read the English and
French Classics to him by turns. Thus surround
ed by his own family, and drawing com fort from
the resources of a highly cultivated mind, this
Nobleman, by some deemed unhappy on account
of the " painful visitation of Heaven," now en
joys more real felicity, than when he directed the
counf'els of a great nation, and governed England
by his nod.
America is making ample strides, and the ap
pointment of Mr. Washington to the office of
Chief Magiflrate, was a meafurethe mofl condu
cive to that end. Her empire, in course of time,
mull: be great and rei'pectable indeed !
Her sea coaits are two thousand miles in extent,
with bays, and rivers, like seas, to ten times that
extent—with many great harbors, and other pla
ces of security for great ffiips in the middle and
northern provinces—with vafl fifheries in those
bays and rivers on the sea coafls, and access to still
greater to the north, to thefouth, and to the east
of their dominions—with seas, except in one or
two places, open all the year round to give con
tinual employment to the seamen, and with no
enemies near to those States tocontroul them.
Many contract debts through vanity or intem
perance or borrow money, or rake up goods,
with the intention of thieves 01* robbers, never to
make return.—When such fuffer, they fufFer de
servedly, in expiation of their guilt. But there
are unavoidable damages by water, by fire, by
the crush of power, oppressive landlords, 'and
more oppressive lawsuits—death of cattle, failure
of crops, failure of payment in others—with thou
sands of luch like casualties, whereby men may
become bankrupt, and yet continue blameless —
And, 111 all such cases, one would think that the
present ruin was fufficient calamity, without the
exertionof law, and the confinement of a ja.il to
make that ruin irreparable.
ADDRESS of the GOVERNOR anil CODn*
CIL of the Commonwealth of MASSA'i" V
SETTS, to THE PRESIDENT of the lAr'V
STATES. UrJJ
SIR,
Wf E ,l,eer you at this time with our beam
V V plete with the warmest affection and eit,
to cxprefs the high fatisfadtien we feel in y„ '
visit to the Commonwealth of Mailachufetts "
We can never forget the time when in the ear
liert 11age of the war, aim the day of our greatest
calamity, we saw you at the head of the army 0 f
the United States, commanding troops, detennin
ed, tliougli then undisciplined, by your wifdoj
and valor preventing a sanguinary and well an.
pointed army of our enemies from fpreadingde'
valuation through our country, and sooner than
we had reason to expect, obliging them to aban.
don the capital.
We have lince seen you in your high command
superior to the greatest fatigues and hardthip/
fuccefsfully conducing our armies through alo»
war, until our enemies were compelled tofubmit
to terms ofpeace, and acknowledged that inde
pendence which the United States in Congrels
aflembled, had before affertecland proclaimed.
We now have the pleasure of you in a
still more exalted ffation to which you have been
elected by the unanimous fufiYag.es of a free, virtu
ous, and grateful country. From that attachment
which you manifeftly discovered while in your
military command, to the civil liberties of your
country, we do allure ourselves that you will ever
retain this great object in your view, and that
your adminiltration will be happy and prosper
ous.
It is our earnest prayer that the Divine Bene
diction may attend you here and hereafter—and
we do sincerely wilh that you may, through this
life, continue to enjoy that greateli of earthly
blefllngs, to be accepted by the multitude of your
brethren.
Council-Chamber, Boflon, Gttoberii, 1789.
To His Excellency the GOVERNOR, and the
Honorable the Members of COUNCIL of the
Commonwealth of MASSACHUSETTS.
GENTLEMEN,
TO communicate the peculiar pleasure which
I derive from your affectionate welcome of
me to the Commonwealth of Mallachufetts, re
quires a force of expreilion beyond that which I
pofiefs—l am truly grateful for your goodness
towards me, and I desire to thank you with the
unfeigned sincerity of a feeling heart.
Your obliging remembrance of my military ser
vices is among the liigheft compensations they can
receive—and, if rectitude of intention may au
thorize the hope, the favorable anticipation,
which you are pleased to express of my civil ad
ministration, will not, I trust, be disappointed.
It is your liappinefs, Gentlemen, to prelidein
tliecouncils of a Commonwealth, wherethepride
of independence is well assimilated with theduties
offociety—and where the industry of the citizen
gives the fulleft aflurance of public refpeft and
private prosperity. I have observed too, with
lingular fatisfatflion, so becoming an attention to
the Militia of the State, as presents the faireft
profpedl of support to the invaluable objects of
national fafety and peace. Long may these
bleflings be continued to the Commonwealth oi
Maflachufetts ! and may you, Gentlemen, in your
individual capacities, experience every fatisfac
tion, which can result from public honor and pri
vate happiness.
G. WASHINGTON.
Boflon, Ottober 27, 1789.
NATIONAL MONITOR. No. XXV.
" Every man when he becomes a member of society, ni»ik (sJ
deposit of three fcveral forts of trust—that of his Lifb, that of®
Liberty, and that of his Property."
THIS deposit mult be underltood in a qtuli*
fied lenle—lt does not suppose an
tio/i of either—but such an investiture of then®
the body-politic, as conduces more effectually w
their preservation—and not only so, but by thij
means (like money at intereit) their value and
importance to us, are greatly enhanced.
Our property we have a right to dispose
we have an abfolue right to convey it to another
Lift and Liberty cannot be thus alienated—"
man has a right to take away his own life* or 10
depart from hi 3 own liberty—He therefore can
not convey to others a right and authority which
hath not inhhnfelf."—Life and liberty may
ever be forfeited by a violation of the rules a' ll
regulations of the society with which vre have""
luntarily connected ourfelves.—lt would
contribute to the peace and profperirv of 3n)
vernmcnt were the individuals of which it is co ®
posed, duly imprefied with this idea, Thati" 11 -'
political association, the members form at it ,
common (lock/or the benefit of the whole—
every vian deposits a part of his liberty and P r
and for the defence of which, he pledges his tij- t
ever occasion calls for it.— A civil compact torn
upon tliefe equal principles, gives us an 'J 1 ' 11 " jjy
better chance for happiness, than \vefhon><
by retaining the whole of our property - 11! l&om, and impioully arrogating a power over our
own lives, to dismiss ourielves from existence
whenever we please. As no society can exist with
out laws and as laws are a dead letter, without of
ficers to carry them into execution, it lieceflarily
follows that every individual is personally bound
to contribute of his property to the support of
government: —Nor could it be conceived that any
reasonable, or lioneit man, would ever objedl to
this felf-evident duty, did not daily experience
evince the contrary. —Men will violate the laws
of their own enacting—they will defeat their
own purposes by evading a compliance with the
molt neceflary regulations, and refufing their
proportion of supplies for the public exigencies.
A refra<flory spirit—a departure fromfirft princi
ples—and the want of general fidelity, lead to a
multiplication of laws—increase of officers—and
of those whom the public lupport—Thefe increase
the burthens of society, and lead many to doubt
the eligibility of civil government to a state of
nature. —A due sense of the maxim contained in
the motto, would prevent these evils in a great
degree, forifevery man was confcientiousindif
charging his public duty, whether in office, or
out of office, government would have an easy
operation —its benefits would be co extensive with
its influences —and universal fatisfaCtion would
be the happy consequence.
MR. FEN NO,
THE following extraifl from the Executive Jour
nals of the Senate, may serve to obviate some
difficulties which have been excited by a misrepre
sentation of the mode of votinginthe Senate : All
the late appointments were determined viva voce
agreeable to this llefolve :
S E NAT E, Friday, Augujl 21, r789.
THE Senate proceeded to consider the report of
the Committee appointed on the 6th of Augult.
The Committee appointed to wait on the Pre
sident of the United States, and confer witli him
on the mode of communication proper to be pur
sued between him, and the Senate, in the forma
tion of Treaties, and making appointments to
offices, reported—which report was agreed to as
follows :
Resolved, That when nominations fliall be
made in writing by the President of the United
States to the Senate, a future day fliall be assigned,
unless the Senate unaninioufly dire«st otherwise,
for taking them into consideration.—That when
The President of the United States ihall meet the
Senate in the Senate Chamber, the President of the
Senate fliall have a chair on the floor, be coniideved
as the head of the Senate, and hit chair fliall be al
fig;ned to the President of the United States.—
That when the Senate fliall be convened by the
President of the United States to any place, the
President of the Senate, and Senators fliall
attend at the place appointed. The Secretary
of the Senate fliall alio attend, to take the mi
nutes of the Senate.
That all queltions fliall be put by the Pi efi
dent of the Senate, either in the pretence or ab
sence of the President of the United States ; and
the Senators fliall fignify their allent ordiflent, by
answering viva voce, aye or 110.
PL A ISTER OF PARIS.
Copy of a letter from Robert Morris to Jesse
Lawrence.
AFTER the conversation which palled between
thee and me, on the subject of Plaifter of
Paris, I conceived it might not be improper to
give thee an account ot the several trials which I
have made wit hit as a manure for land. Perhaps
it might have been in the year i 775 that it was
recommended to me as a manure for land; I ac
cordingly purchased five bulhels—yet my faith
therein was so weak, that it lay until when
in the month of March I sowed at the rate of 2 1-2
bushels per acre, on Tome ground which I had til
led and sowed with clover feed the l'pring pieced
ing, leaving a piece in the middle not Towed, and
likewise on each fule. That season, where there
was no plaifter sown, the clover flood on the groud
about twelve inches high, but where the plaiftei
was sown, the clover flood upon an 34
inches high ; this ground 1 sowed tor about loui
seasons after, and found it to have lefsgrafa eveiy
year, though that which wasfownwith the plan
ter had as much more in proportion as the fult
year. I afterwards ploughed up all this ground
except one fourth ot an acre, upon this 1 again
put plaifter of Paris in the year 1 785, and no o
ther manure whatever since i77"> and it is now
in much better order than it was at that time, and
it has produced me about two tons of hay every
year for the firft crop, and a tolerable good second
crop, and some times a third crop, or verj good
past.ire ; though the lall time I manured it 1 put
in the proportion of fix bulhels ot this plailtei to
an acre. 1 have likewise made many experiments
otherwise ; I have tried it with Indian corn, w ' lel ®
it does tolerably well, with buckwheat, ana it
makes it grow so rapidly that it-has always fallen
down, and I have loft my crop. 1 h ave tne«l it
with wheat, and iti" not polfible to dilcover that
it makes any difference when sown 011 the crop ,
bat when it is sown on grass gi'ounu, and t n->
ground turned up and laid down in wheat, ic is
amazing the advantage it is of to the crop. Latt
fall was a year I put down about 8 acres ot wheat,
which I harrowed in and then lowed clover feed,
which came up and looked very fine in the tall ; hut
the winter being very severe, with but little snow,
the clover was dead in the spring ; when 1 lowed it
again with clover feed, and about 6 buihels ot plail -
ter of Paris to the acre ; and by har veil time I had
clover all over the piece better than 12 inches high,
and which I mowed in about two or three weeks
after my wheat was cut ; I believe 1 might have
cut full a ton of hay oft" from each acre, and I am
well fatisfied that if I had not put plailter of Pa
ris on it I should not have had any grass that I
could have cut. I have likewifefold this manure
to many people in this State as well as New-Jersey,
Maryland, Delaware, &c. and after trial their
applications to me for more has been very great,
which induces me to believe they have found the
like benefit frointhe use of it as I have myfelf.
With refped:, I am thy friend.
ROBERT MORRIS.
Philadelphia, February IJ, I 789.
To JESSE Lawrence.
I, Clementßiddle, lilq. Notary Public for the Commonwealth
of Pcnnfvlvaaia, duly commiffiontd and qualified, do certify, that
Robert Morris, miller and farmer, of the county ot Philadelphia,
by whom the foregoing writiug certified by him in his own hand
writing to me well known, is a person of good character and re
putation, and that t have been (s*l his farm and have leen great
appearance of improvement in the produce thereof from the uic of
platffer of Paris, and am of opinion that credit is due to his certifi
cate before written relative thereto. The said plailter is brought
from Nova Scotia, and is in great repute.
In tetlimony whereof, 1 have hereunto set my hand and fixed
my notarial seal at Philadelphia, .this rßth day ot Febru
ary, 1789. (Signed) CLEMENT BfDDLE,
Notary Public, 1789.
ODE on the DEATH oj a YOUNG LADY.
[from mr. locan's foems.]
UNTIMELY gone ! for ever fled
The roses of the cheek so red*
Th' affe&ion warm, the temper mild,
The sweetness that in sorrow fmil'd.
Alas ! the cheek where beauty glow'd,
The heart where goodnefsoverflow'd,
A clod amid the valley lies,
And " dust to dufi" the mourner cries.
0 from thy kindred early torn,
And to thy grave untimely borne *
Vanifti'd forever from my view,
Thou sister of my foul, adieu !
Fair with my firft ideas twin'd
Thine ima oft will meet my mind ;
And, while remembrance brings thee near,
AiF<6lion fad will drop a tear.
How oft does sorrow bend the head.
Before we dwell among the dead !
Scarce in the years of manly prime,
1 've often wept the wrecks of time f
What tragic tears bedew the eye !
What deaths we fuifer ere we die !
Our broken friend {hips we deplore,
And loves of youth that are no more !
No after-friendfli p e'er can raise
Th'endearments of our early days :
And ne'er the heart such fondnels prove.
As when it firft. began to love.
Afl'ection dies, a vernal flower ;
And love, thebloll'omof an hour !
The fprins of fancy cares controul,
And mar the beauty of the foul.
Vers'd in the commcrcp of deceit,
How soon the heart forgets to beat!
The blood runs rold at int'refVscall,
They look with equal eyes on all.
Ye pow'r« ! whatever ye withhold,
I t my afie£ii«»n ne'er grow old ;
Ne'er may the human glow depart,
Nor nature yield to frigid art!
Still may my generous bosom burn,
Tho' doom'd to bleed o'er beauty's urn ;
And still the friendly face appear,
Tho' moiften'd witn a tender tear!
BOSTON, October 29.
Yesterday morning, The PRESIDENT vifitedthe
Sail-Cloth and Card Manufactories in this town.
Yesterday THE PRESIDENT paid a vifu to the
Right Hon. Viscount dePoNTEvisGi en,on board
the'llluftre—He was received with all that refpeift
due to the Supreme Magistrate of a Sovereign
Nation.
Last evening there was a brilliant Aflembly at
Concert-Hall, which THE PRESIDENT, and
VICE PRESIDENT of the United States,the Lady
of our worthy Governor, The Lieutenant Gover
nor and Lady—the Commander of the French
Squadron—the Marquis de la GaliflToniere, and
Lady and a number of other diftinguiflied cha
racters, were pleased to honor with their presence.
October ;o. Yesterday morning THE PIIE
SIDEN Tof the United States, fat out on his tour
to Portfinoulh. He was escorted out of town by
the company of Cavalry, commanded by Major
Gibbs, and a number of refpeiitable citizens. At
his entrance 011 the bridge, on which were dif
plaved a number of ensigns of different nations,
a salute was fired from Breed's hill.
THE PRESIDENT of the United Stares we
are informed, dined at Marblehead yesterday.
Last night he was to lodge at Salem, and this
morning he will proceed on his tour.
At the celebration of the 19th of October, at
Marlborough in this State, the following, among
other toasts, were given : The genuine Ame
rican who neither trembles at the sword, orblufli
es at the plow. May our Plenipotentiaries now
on a treaty with the ravage?, attend the lajl fit
jural of the Hatchet. A speedy and honora
ble tranquility to France. Way Congress To or
ganize the Militia of the Union, as to render it
a terror to the World.
NEW-YORK, NOVEMBER 7.
Thurfdav nooh aFire broke out in anew lioufe
of Mr. Hollar, in Crown-street, oppoiite the Dutch
Church, which was not exringuiihed till the build
ing was cSnfiderably damaged.
l'his ati'ords another iniiance of the expert
nelsoi* our engine men, and the alacrity wiih
which all clafies of citizens turnout, to render
their alfiltance. Ahlio tliefe circumftaiices may
inspire confidence in the minds of people at large,
a misfortune is not the less dreadful and inju
rious to the unfortunate f'utferer. Ft is reasona
ble to conclude, therefore, that every prudent
proprietor of houses will avail himfclt of every
probable means to place his property out of jeo
pardy.
His Excellency William Livingstoh, Esq. of Elitabcth
town, has been re-ele£tcd Governor o( New-Jcrfey, by the legi
slature of that Stale, now convened at Perth-Amboy.
On Tuesday the Federal Court tor the diltrift t.f New-\ ork,
was opened in the Exchange—H.s Honor Judge Duanej
tiding: No bufmefs before the Court, the fame was imme
diately adjolrned.
It has been observed, refpetfting the Revolu
tion of America, that so extraordinary were the
leading features in this great work, that, unlike
the origin of other nations, America sprang into
empire arid eminence at once.—lt may, with pro
priety, befaid of her, that " A nation was born
in a Day."—Even our enemies will hardly allow
us a nonage—for altho from our inexperience in
government and finance, errors may very natur
ally be expected, yet our miltakes have had no
quarter from them—We have been mercilouily
satirized on the one hand, and our conference
depreciated 011 the other—and to this day, there
arc not wanting those, who snarl at our growing
credit, power, and refpetftability —who pretend
to be friends to the country, but whose envy is ex
cited at every fympton of national dignity and
honor.
Notwitliftanding all that has been, or may
said, to alarm the public mind 011 the subject ot
our national, and Stare debts, it is undoubtedly a
fact, that America is in a more eligible lituation
in this refpevft, than any cf the States and King
doms of the European world. Our capacity to
discharge both principal and interest, bears a
greater relative proportion to the whole amount
of our debts, than the refourcesof any other ci.
vifized country : This appears from an inveltiga
tion of the fubjedl—confequently, there never
can exist the shadow of areafon for lacrificing the
public faith, by any iniquitous fchemesof depre
ciation.—The path of honor and lionefty is a plain
path—lll that we shall be fafe—and as happinefa
whether of a public or private nature, is therefult
of labor and enterprize—fo, a determination to
do justly may require extra exertions, yet the point
gained, the* public credit reltored, and a perfjtt
confidence established in the government, our re
ward will be great—We (hall be prepared for
every event —and realizing the bleflings ofcha
ratfer, credit, and fidelity, every future plan of
temporary knavery will be rejetfted with abhor
rence.
Of all the imps that are permitted to torment
mankind, there is not one which pofleiles such
extensive powers as that of envy :—Every person
profefles todefpife its influence, and yet too ma
ny feel the force of its malignance—the favorites
of fortune are theconftantobjetfls of itspnrfuit—
the prosperity and liappinefs of a cotemporary
feed its venom, and give a scope to its poison—
it pines, and lickens at the success of a rival —and,
tho generally disappointed in all its projeifts, it
thiives, and seems to acquire new vigor from
the chagrin confequcnt upon defeat to its wishes
and desires —Its belt offices are detraction and
revenge—lts obje*sts of calumny are merit in eve
ry grade of life—-abilities and desert, attratft its
reproaches and contempt —and when success at
tends a virtuons enterprize, when meritorious
characters are promoted, this demon always as
signs some bafeand detestable cause, for the tri
umph.— Envy is a raoft industrious little devil—
it not only aflails those in exalted stations, but
descends to the minutise of life—it afl'umes the
character of umpire in every cafe that comes
within its knowledge—and supplying the defici
ency of taste and judgment by a brazen front, it
condemns with confidence what it does not com
prehend, or what may contravene its own pre
conceived ideas—Thus it perpetually torments
the bosom where it resides, and mars the liappi
nefs of all that falls in its way—but the wife and
virtuous, while they avoid the society of envious
fnarlers, conscious of the retftttude of their own
hearts, are borne along through life, fuperiorto
their chagrin, their malice or their calumny.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
We condole with "GrkyTom" on the elopement of hi* tl Pol"
—but the loss of a squirrel c?nnot be confidercd as interesting to
the public. " Snakier" is received—but appears to have n.^
ol>jc The paragraph, in answer to kt Mongol ft erbeginning
with. O1 1 r,e Wit !" would better undcrftood by appear
ing in the Daily Gazette.CONGRESS of the UNITED STATES.
Begun and held at the City of Neu>-York, on Wednesday the Fourth
of Ala/ch) One Thouland Seven Hundred and Eighty** Nine.
•An ACT toejlablifli the JUDICIAL COURTS of the UNITED
B STATES.
Eit cvafitd by the Senate and House of Reprejentatives ojthe United
States of America in Longrejs- ajfcmbled, That the Supreme
Court oi the United States shall contilt of a chief iuftice and five
alfociate justices, any four ol whom shall be a quorum, and ihall
hold annually at the feat of government two fcfiioits, the one
commencing the firft Monday of February, and the other the fiift
Monday of August. That the aflociate justices (hall have prece
dence according to the date of their commiflions, or when the
com millions of two or more of them bear date on the fame day,
according to their refpe&ive acres.
And be it further enabled, That the United States (hall be, and
they hereby are divided into thirteen diftri&s, to be limited and
•ailed as follows, to wit, one to consist of that part of the State
Ot Mafiachufetts which lies eafterlyof the State of New-Hamp
lnirc, and to be called Maine diftria ; one to consist of the State
of New-Hampshire, and to be called New-Homofliire diftria;
one to consist of the remaining part of the State of Maflacfrufetts,
«JV° ca Jled MafTachufetts diftria ; one to consist of the state
ot Conneaicut, and to be called Connecticut diftria; one to
l^c tate New-York, and to be called New-York
diitna ; one to coufift of the State of New-Jersey, and to be
called New-Jersey diftria; one to consist of the State of Penn
sylvania, and to be called Pennsylvania diftria ; one to consist of
t-ie State of Delaware, and to be called Delaware diftria ; one to
the State of Maryland, and to Recalled Maryland di-
one to consist of the State of Virginia, except that part
called the diftria of Kentucky, and to be called Virginia diftria ;
one to consist of the remaining part of the State of Virginia,
and to "be called Kentucky diftria ; one to consist of the State of
South Carolina, and to be called South CaTohna diftria; 4nd one
to consist of the State of Georgia, and to be called Georgia diftria.
And be it further enaOid, Thut th«e be a court called a diftria
court, in each of the aforementioned diflrjas, to consist of one
judge, wlio shall icfide in the diftria for which he is appointed,
and he (hall be called a diftria Judge, and shall hold annually
tour .((pons, the firft of which to commence an follows., to wit,
Hi toe diftnfo of New-York and of New-jcrfev on the firft, in
the diftria ol Pennsylvania on the fecund, in the diftria of Con
nmitut on the third, and in thediftria of Delaware, on the fourth
Tuesdays of November next; in the diftrias of MafTachufetts of
Mam 2nd of Maryland, on the firft; in the diftria of Georgia
on the second, and in the dittriat of New-Hampshire, of Virgi
nia and Kentucky, on the third Tuesdays oi December nevt; and
theothef three feflions progreflively in the refpeftive diftrifts on
trie like Tuesdays of every third calender month afterwards, and
in the diftrift of South Carolina, on the third Monday in March
and September, the firft Monday in July, and the leeond Mo*,
day of December of each and evejy year, commencing in Decern
cr next ; and that the Diftrift Judge (hall have power to hold
Ipecial courts at his diferetion. That the dated diftria court
"all be held at the placej following, to wit, in the diftrift of
1 *" Port ' aD d and PownalboTough alternately, beginning at
the firft ; in thediftrift of New-Hamp(hire, at Exeter and Poitf
mouth alternately, beginning at the firft ; in the diftrift of Mas.
Jachufetts, at Boston and Salem alternately, beginning at the firft-
V* tne diftrift of Connecticut, alternately at Hartford and New-
Haven, beginning at the firft ; in the diftrftof Ncw-Yorfc,at New
tork; in the diftrift of New-Jersey, alternately at New-Brun
iwick and Burlington, beginning at the firft ; in the diftrift of
Pennsylvania, at Philadelphia and York-Town alternately, tecin
ning at the firft ; in the diftrift of Delaware, alternately at New.
Cattle and Dover, beginning at the Srft ; in tha diftrift of Mary,
land, alternately at Baltimore and Eafton, beginning at the firft •
m the diftrift of Virginia, alternately at Richmond and Williaorf
burg, beginning at the firft ; in the diftrift of Kentuckv, at Har
rodlburgh; m the diftrift of South-Carolina, at Charleston ; in
t*e diiinct of Georgia, alteniatelv at Sawnnah and Augulb, be
ginning at tlie firft;—and tbat the fpecul courtj (hall be held at
tie lame place in each diftrift as the stated courts, or in diftrifts
that have two at either of them, in the discretion of the judge, or
at such other place in the diftrift, as the nature of the business
TOd his discretion (hall dircft. And that in the diftrifts that have
but one place for holding the diftrift court, the records thereof
hall be kept at that place ; and in diftrifts that have two, at that
plicr in each diftrift which the judge (hall appoint
Audit it further evaded, That the beforemcntioned diftrifts
except thofeof Maine and Kentucky, Hall be divided into three
circuit., and be called the eastern, the middle and the foutheni
circuit. That the eastern circuit (hall consist of the diftnfts ol
ixew-Hampftiire, MairachuTetts, Connecticut and New-York •
that the middle circuit (hall consist of the diftrifts of New-lerfey'
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland and Virginia; and that the
louthern circuit fliall consist of the diftrifts of South-Carolina
and Georgia, and that there (hall be held annually in each diftrift
ot said circuits two courts, which (hall be called circuit courts,
*nd ihall consist of any two justices of the Supreme Court, and
the diftrift judge of such diftrifts, any two of whom shall confti.
tute a quorum : Prtmitd, That no diftrift judge (hall give a vote
in any cafe of appeal or error from hi* own decision ; but mi,
allign the reasons of such his decision.
And be it further traded, That the firft session of the said circuit
tourt in the several diftrifts (hall commence at the times following
to wit; in New-Jersey on the second, in New-York on the fourth,
in Pennsylvania on the eleventh, in Connecticut on the twenty,
lecond, and in Delaware on the twentv-feventh, days of April
next; in MafTachufetts on the third, in Maryland on the seventh,
Ml South-Carolma on the twelfth, in New-Hampfliire on the
twentieth, in Virginia on the twenty-second, and in GeOTjna on
the of May next, and the subsequent feflions
the refpeftive diftrifts on the like days of every fixjth calender
months afterwards, except m South Carolina, where the rcflion of
the laid conrt (hall commcnce on the firft, and in Georgia where
Jt shall commence on the feventetnth day of October, and except
when any of thofedays shall happen on a Sundav,and then the fef.
hon shall commence on the next day following. And the feflions of
tne said circuit court Ihall be held in the diftrift of Xew-Hamp
•k "j m ? U,h r d F " Ct " a 't"natcly, beginning at the firft ;
Vi the diftrift of MafTachufetts at Boston ; in the diftrfft of Con
necticut alternately at Hartford and New-Haven, begiuriing at the
*liL' '!l e °f New-York, alternately at New-York and
/Mbany, beginning at the firft; in the diftrift of New-Terfcv at
trenton ; in the diftrift of Pennsylvania, alternately at Philadel
phia ann i ork-fown, beginning at the firft ; iu the diftrift of
Delaware alternately at New-Castle and Dover, beginning at the
irft in the diftrift of Maryland, alt.ersatcly at Annapolis and
-ginningat the firft; in the diftrift ofVirginia, altcrnate
-ft So riC 1" ''I'amfborgh, beginning at the firft ;
J. the diftrift of Souih-Carnlina, alternately at Columbia and
Charleston, beginning at the firft ; and in the diftrift of Goorgi,.
a.:croaicly at Savannah and Augusta, beginning at the firii. And
tne circuit courts shall have power to hold special feflions for the
trial ot criminal causes at any other time at their discretion, oral
tne (lifcrrtioii of the Supreme Court.
And beltfurthir ena&td, That the Supreme Court may, by any
oueor more of its justices being present, be adjourned from day
to day until a quorum be convened ; and that a circuit court mav
from day so day by any one of its judges, or if
none are present by the marshal of the diftrift until a quorum be
convr-ned ; and that a diftria court in enfe of the inability of the
at the commencement of a may bv virtue
Of a wiitten order from the said direaed to the of
t»e d:fti 'ft he adjourned by the said marliul to tuch day, mtecf.
denttn ihr next stated fifiion of the said couit, o$ fn the said
order shall be appointed, and in cafe of the death of the said
judge, ana his vacancy not being supplied, all progress, pleading
and proceedings of what nature soever, pending before the said
court, fliall be continued of couife until the next stated fcflion af
ter the appointment and acceptance of the office by his fucceflbr.
And be it cnadtJ, That the (upreme court, and che diftria courts
fliall ha\ e power to appoint clerks for their refpeftive courts, and
that the cleik for each diftrift court ffiall beclerk also of the cir
cuit court in fucli diftria, and cacli of the said clerks fliall, before
lie enters upon the cxccuti on of his office, take the following
oath or affirmation, to wit, " I A. B. being appointed clerk of
, do solemnly (wear, or affirm, that I will truly
" and fairhfully enter and record all the orders, decrees, judg
" incuts and proceedings of the said court, and that I will tai'th
" tully and impartially discharge and perform all the duties of my
•' said office, according to the bed of my abilities and underltand
" irjg. So help me God." Which words, so help me God,
(hall be omitted in all cases where an affirmation is admitted in
stead of an oath. And the feid clerks shall also fcverally give
bond, with fufficient foretica (to be approved of by the fuprcme
and diftria courts refpeftivelyj to the United States, in the sum
of two thousand dollars, faithfully to discharge the duties of his
office, and seasonably to reccn-d the decrees, judgements and de
termination* of the court of which he is clerk.
And be itfurther enachd, Tliat the justices of the Supreme Court,
and the diftria judges, before they procccd to execute the duties
of their refpcQive offices, ffiall take the following oath or affirm
-11 ation, to wit, " I A. B. do solemnly swear or affirm, that I
" will administer jnfticc withont refpeft to perfoas, and do equal
" right to the pooi and to tire rich, and that I will faithfully
" and impartially dilcbarge and perform all the duties incumbent
" on me as , according to the best of my abilities
" and underflanding, agreeably to the constitution and laws of
" the United States. So help me God."
And be it further enafled, That the diftria courts (hall have ex
clusively of the courts of the several State, cognizance of all
crimes and offences that shall be cognizable under the authority of
the United States, committed within their refpeffive diftrifts, or
upon the highfeas; where no other puniffimcnt than whipping,
notexceeding thirty ttiipes, a fme not exceeding one hundred
dollars, or a term of imprifoinentnot exceeding fix months, is to
be infli&cd ; and shall also have exclusive original cognizance of
all civil eaufes of admiralty and maritime jurifdi&ion, including
all seizures under lawsof impost, navigation or trade of the U
nited States, where the seizures arc made, on waters which are
navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more tons burthen,
within theiT refpefteftive diftrids as well as upon the high leas ;
saving to fuitois, in all cases, the right ol a common law rel
medy, where the common law is competent to give it: And shall
also have exclusive original cognizance of all seizures on land, or
other waters than as aforefaid, made, and of all suits for penalties
and forfeitures incurred, under the laws of the United States. And
ffiall also have cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several
States, or the circuit courts, as the cafe may be, of all cants where an
alien sues tor a tort only in violation of the law of nations or a treaty
of the I'nited States. And shall alio have cognizance, concurrent as
last mentioned, of all faits at commoa law where the United
States sue, and the matter in difputr amounts, exclusive of cods
to the sum or value of one hundred dollars. And ffiall also have
juris Jidion exclufiveiy of the coarts of the several States, of all
suits agalnft consuls or vicr-r.onfuls. except for offences above the
delcription aforefaid. And the trial of iffiics in fact, in the dif
tria courts, in all caufrs except civil eaufes of admiralty and ma
ritime jurifdichon, ffiall be byjury.
] n n t 6 n "fatitrtnaaei. That the d.drift court in Kentucky
diflria ffiali, besides the jurifdiftion aforefaid, have jurifdia.on
of all other caules, except of appeals and writs error, herein
after made cognizable in a circuit court, and shall proceed therein
in the fame manneras a circuit couit, and writs of error and
appeals (hall lie from decisions thereinto the Supreme Court in
the fame causes, as from a circuitcourt to the Supreme Conrt, and
under the: fa m e regulations.—And the diflria court in Maine dif
rj 'n- " e "° es t ' le j ur 'fdiaionherein before granted, have iu
rildittion of all eaufes, except of appeals and writs of error herein
alter made cognizable in a circnit court, and shall proceed therein
in the fame manner as a circuitcourt: And writs of error ffiall lie
trom decisions therein to the circuit courtin the diftria of MafTa-
Chuli tts, in the fame manner as from other diftria courlsto their
relpective circuit courts.
And be itfurtker enaticd. That the circuit courts shall have origi
nal cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States, of
all luits of a civil nature at common law or in equity, where the
matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of coftj, the sum or value of
five hundred dollars, and the United States are plaintiff,, or pe
i loners ; or an alien is a party, or the suit is between a citizcn of
aj rifn l" 6 !S b rougtit, and a citizen of another State.
And lhall have exclusive cognizance of all crimes and offences
cognizable under the authority of the United States, exceptwhere
this ail otherwise provides, or the laws of the United States fliall
otlienviledirea,and concurrent jurifdiaion withthediftria courts
0 the crimes and offences cognizable therein. But no person
lhall be arretted in one diftria for trial in another, in any civil ac
lon before a circuit or dlllrift court: And no civil suit ffiall be
roug it cfore cither of (aid courts against an inhabitant of the
Vnittd States, by any original proccfs in any other diftria than
that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he may be found at
the time of serving the writ, nor ffiall any diftr,a or circuit court
ave cognizance of any suit to recover the contents oi any promif
fZ l km - aftl6n in favor of unless a
luit might have been ptofecuted in such court to recover the said
f",?" 15 ,f "° assignment had been made, except in cases of foreign
1 r ngf " 'he circuit ccurts ffiall also haveappellate
_u ifdiftion from the diftnft courts under the regulations and re
ltntiions herein oftcr provided.
And fa UjuTther enaflcd, That if a suit be commcnccd in any
an alien, or by a citizen of the State in which
the suit is brought againfl a citizcn of another State, and the mat
ter in difpnte cxceeds the aforementioned sum or value of five
f7' '•'"c 1 "'"" of Whe made to appear to the
™ LT l,tCOUrt ; and the defendant ffiall, at the time of
&Vi- PPe f r ? nCe ' n , f " ch StM court,file « petition for the re
the dflrin Ck™ ' rlallnto tfienext circuit court, to be held in
o the rfVfl iA <S ? ertd ' n S> or if in diftria of Maine
l ! l h ° ldcn theftin ' or if ln Kentucky
£Ood and f ffi r COUn neXl ,0 be holdcn therei ". off"
good and fufficient surety for his entering into such court, on the
forVis 3 yi'! COp '" of fa,d process against him, and also
fnrri I K i a PP ea *mg and entering fpccial bail in die cause, if
the S T VCf! " ,fltC ' h " ein ' il 1,1311 the du-
caufr furet *' Sl,d f roc " d further in
bedi'fcWerl T y * a' /j' may h,ve becn orißinally taken ffiall
fiirh rr. , r'u ,t 'i ,1 copies being entered as aforefaid, in
such court ofthe United States, thecaufe ffiall there proceed in the
fiHne manner as ,f It had been brought there by original process
the or y ° UaC r" t " f , thc S ood » Of cftate of the defendant by
anfwe'r £ 'the firrlt'r! h °'' d t . ho B oods or attached, to
r, „ . judgment in the fame manner as by the laws of
such state they wotn^ have been holden to answer fi/al judgmem
had I been rendered bv the court in which the suit commenced
nd in any adion commenced i« a State court, the title of land
matter'ffi fhf * the of the fame State, and the
I r dl f P«te exceed, the sum or vaulue of five hundred dollars
u ne of eofls, the sum or value being madeto appear to the satis'
faa.on of the court, either party, before the tria£ fhau lbte -o
w court and moke affidavit if they require it, that he claims and
fl al rely upon a or title to the land, under a rr.nttpm a
t'lert'ri » r laatl,at in w ''ich the suit is pending, and produce
he grant or an exemplification of it cxccot where th
! " fS " f put' Wu, of U, power a/d
Hilt the ItfterU »,irty mform tV>« cAfet, v'K>ti«rj tr 1 '
or title to the Jtud undtr a grant from .he State in vSthef'
■s pending ;t he said adverse party fKall give such inform,,' 1
otherwise not be allowed to plead such grant, or give it S° r
upon then lal,and if be ml or ms that he doesclaim under Ll "
the party claiming under the grant firft mentioned n.av tk Pai "'
motion, remove the cause for trial to the next cirri, i ' °"
holdcn ill such diftria, or if in the difli ia of Maine to tf '° be
next to be bolden therein ; or if in Kentukv dift, ia, t'o thedjX
court next to be holder. therein; but if he is thi-ar,
ihall do it under the fame regulations at in the belorememl
cafe of the removal of the cause into such clrtb y 7u alt A "1
neither party removing the cause, (hall be allowed to nl'J)
give evidence of any p. her title than thai by him stated asator-Iv
as the ground of his claim. And the trial of issues in Si&TZ
circß.l coort. fl.au, in all fort., except thole of eq„J
admiralty, and maritime iurifidi&ion, be by jury-
Aud i t it further emichJ,' That the Supreme Court (hall have«
dunvejunftliction of all controverf.es of a civil nature
State is a party, except between a State and its ci„ Z ens ; a „7 c .
cept also between a Sutc and citirens of other States or ali«T
in which latter cafe it lhall have origin,! but not exdufive w t
diaion And (hall have cxclufivelv all fuchiurifdiaon of nt
proceedings against AmbalTadors, or other public Minifteit >
their doineftics, or domestic fei-vants, as a court of law can hL
Orexercife conhftemly with the law of nations; and original b«
not exclude junld,ft,on of all suits brought by Ambaflfdoi,' o
other public Mmillers, or in which a Consul or Vice-consul Lll
be a party. And the trial of issues in faß in the Supreme Court
in .11 aaions at law against citizens of the United States ftiiU
be by jury. Die Supreme Court lliall also have appellate iurifdc
turn from the circuit courts and courts of the feveial States,'in the
cafe, herein after fpicially provided for ; And (ball have' power
to illue writs of prohibition to the diftria courts, when proceed
ing as courts of admiralty and maritraejurifiiaion, and writs of
mandamus, in cases warranted by the principles and utogcsolhw
to any courts appointed, or ptifons holding office, under theau!
tliority of the United States.
Andbe it father cnalleJ, That all the beforemcntioncd com# of
the buited States, shall have powcT to issue writs of hire tufa
naheat corpus. and all other writi not fpcciallv provided so. hvfcl
a h ' Ch ""'X l ' f " eceffijl >' f "* ilk " ftercife of their refprfi", t
'i" j , to the pi mciples and usages ofl 4 „
And that either of the justices of the Supreme Court, as >ell w
judges of the drftria courts, shall have power to print writ , of h
teas corpus for the purpose oi an enquiry into «he oa»fc of come, r.
Provided, that writs of luhii shall in so cafe ox.
tend to pnfoners in goal, unless where they ate in custody, under
OI by colour of rhe authority of the United States, orare commu
ted for trial before forae court ot the fame, ot are necd&ry tobe
brought into court to teftify.
And be it further enathd. That all the said courts of the United
State*, lhall have power in the trial of aftiom at law, on motion
and due notice thereof being given, to require tht patties ta pro.
duce bonk, or writings in their poflcllion or power, wliicli coo,
tain evidence pertinent to theilfue, in cases and under circum
ftanccs where they might be compelled to produce the fame by the
ordinary rule, of proceeding in chancery : and if a plaintiff (hall
"Hi tc> comply with fnch order, to produce books or writing*, it
(hall be lawful for the courts rcipetuvrl)-, on "notion, IQcivetlir
like judgment for the defendantasin cafe, of nonsuit, and if a de
fendant shall fail to comply with such order, to produce books or
writings, it shaH be lawful for the courts refpeaivfly, on motio*
ai aforefaid, to gite judgment against him or her by default.
And be it further cnafltd, That iuits in equity lliall not be fuflairw
ed in either of the courts of the United States, in any cafe where
plain, adequate and complete rctucdy maybe had at law.
And be itfnrther ertafled, That all the said courts of theUwtei
States /hall have power to grant new trials, in cases where thert
has been a trial by jury for reasons for which new trials haw
been ufnally granted in courts of law ; and shall have powertoira
pofe and administer all necessary oaths or affirmations, and to pu
nish by fine or imprisonment, at the discretion of said courts, ail
contempts of authority in any cause or hearing before the fame;
and to make and eflablifh all necessary rules for the orderly con
ducing business in the said courts, provided such rules are not re
pugnant to the laws of the United States.
And be itfnrther enafled, That, when in a circuit court, judg
ment upon averdid in a civil action shall be entered, execution
may on motion of either party> at the discretion of the court, ani
on such conditions for the security of the adverse party as they
may judge proper, be flayed forty-two days from the time of en
tering judgment, to give time to file in the Clerks office of fail
court, a petition for a new trial. And if such petition be thert
filed within the said term of forty-two days, with a certificate
thereon from either of the judges ol such court, that Ije allow s the
lame to be filed, which certificate he may make or refufc at his dis
cretion, execution shall oftourfc befurther flayed to the next feflion
of said court. And il a new trial be granted, the former judgment
ftiall be thereby rendered void.
(To be continued.)
EXTRACT.
OF PAY INC DEBTS.—Owe no man «ny thing-
Economy is a matter of experience—the con
versation and advice of a friend may be highly
advantageous to the young, who need inftruo
tion. rhe principle of julticeis unfolded, and
the pra&ice of it eltabliflied by the communica
tions and approbation of one in whom they con
fide—Next to the testimony of a good conscience
in our favor, the testimony of a friend is the belt
defence against unjuftifiable compliances with,
pernicious customs —The secrecy which some af
fecit with regard to their affairs, declining all
communications on the lubjed:, often leads to
distress which timely counsel might have prevent
ed.
There are falfe, but plausible maxims, which
a friend might unmalk—there are propensities,
seemingly generous, which he might check
there are confcquences which he might forefee,
and in the spirit of meekness foretel ; there is®
lenfeof justice at the bottom of the heart, which
he might roufe,and provoke to break through eve
ry obltacle.—" Faithful (in this sense) are the
wonndsof a friend"—Happy is the young wan
who is favored with a friend, whose penetration
may prove a lamp to his feet, and a guide to his
path.—
There is a magnanimity of spirit in g> v '"S>
and receiving advice which few poflefs ; but h c
other virtues may be acquired.
W JNTED, to complete Files of this paper, numbers
441 fnrf 48 ;St k ptnee each will be paid lor eithe r °f^ ,0 J e nam
at the office of the Editor. OcUcr 24.
Pnbliftied by JOHN'f'ENNO, No. 9.. M f IPF '' :
1-A.\ f . ura; ;1 1C O/i.t.jo-M N i -a'-Yob k—i .J t'' *