[No. LIX.]
THE TABLE T No. LIX.
'< In free countries, it is a branch of liberty, claim
<( e J by the middling and loiuijl claJJ'es of the people,
'<< to be as wicked and profligate as their superiors."
THE fubjed: introduced in my last nuin
ber has some remote connection with
that, which is now brought into dii'cullion. It has
been remarked that economy, as a general virtue,
has more utility in promoting the interelt of in
dividuals, than mere sagacity in acquiring pro
perty. But though this qnality contributes to
the prbfperity of all men, it is more eflentially
rcquifite with persons in low circumstances, and
who have small advantages for making them better.
It is not my intention to indulge uudifUnguilh
ing censure against the extravagance or vices of
the times ; or to examine how far the luxury of
individuals may be considered as a public benefit
or injury. Perhaps 110 iuveftigation can bring
the matter to any definite point. Waving there
fore the consideration of the influence of profli
gate, <'xpenfive manners upon the public pros
perity,, I will only shew that such excefles coun
teract the happiness and success of individuals.
It is very certain that no gratification can afford
aplealure, that will not be more than balanced
by the pains of debt and embarrafsinent. Whe
ther it is fimplythe love of pleasure, or an ambi
tion to make a figure in polite life, that tempts
people to live beyond their income, they are bad
calculators of happiness, who thus involve them
selves. A very considerable part of the wretched
nel's and difgracp, into which fpme families are
plungeiJ, isoccafioned by their taking too high a
tone in their expences. Had they pitched upon
aftyleo f living one grade lower, they would have
gained :more real fatisfacftion and refpecfl, and
would not so often lose their character and estate.
There i s a great proportion of the misery, that
inflicts society, derived from this unfortunate
source. This ardor to imitate superiors creates
a gener: d confufion and miscalculation ; it fedu
ces people into a habit of progrefling too fafl: in
their ex pences, and straining too hard upon their
income.
Perha ps it will be urged that the community
gain too much advantage by the luxury of in
dividuals to attempt any rellraints uporv it. Far
am I fr< >m supposing that any legal interference,
pointed directly to this object, wjll produce any
reformation. It is more than probable that such
arew ly will prove worse than the difqrderitfelf.
But Ia: n not yet willing to believe that this evil
is totaJ ly incurable. If attempts were made, in
the ed ucation of children, to render a prudent
mode i if living reputable, and to enftill into their
minds an aversion to contract debts, there would
be less temptation to spend falter than theycarn
#d. 'There is a peculiar relaxation in the present
pract ice of educating children, with respect to
their habits of expence. It is an evil, in some mea
sure,. rising out of the nature of a free govern
nien t, and therefore it is of the m.ore importance
to against it, in the early periods of life.
In the United States, there are many causes to
ejffvate the hopes of men, whether they are pur
suing objetts of avarice or ambition. The idea
of alluming a more important stand in society is
iir iprelled on the minds of people, from their very
in fancy. They expert, at some future day, to
m ove in a fpliere higher than they do at present.
7 he fafcinating influence ofl'uchahope draws
fbme people into an anticipation of the property
i .hich they hereafter intend to acquire. By this
means, many persons, in every grade of life, spend
too prpfufe]y,and involve thenifelves in debt and
?>«rple;vity. In fliort they have been left to
i&elieve that there is less disgrace in losing their
!i>Mfwtua}ity, tfoan in retrenching their expences.
Nothing can effectually reftraiu tliefe mifchiefs
ibut a more rigid attention to the habits and opin
ions of youth 011 the interesting points of economy
and felf-denial.
BosxoN, October 28, 1789*
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
SIR,
TT is \v;th (ingular plepfure that we, the Prefi-
A clent and fellows of Harvard Univeifity in
Cambridge, embrace the opportunity, which
your moil acceptable visit to this part of the coun
try gives u s, of paying our refpetfts to the t iift
Magistrate of the United States.
It afforded us the highlit fetisfaiftiop, to iinu
tills large and refpeiftable Nation unanimous, in
placing at the bead ps the new Government, the
firm and diftnterelted Patriot—.the illuftripus and
intrepid Soldier, who, during her struggles in
the caufeof liberty, braving every difficulty and
"langer in the field, under tlte £niles pi <1 hind
Prov i<leuce,led her armies to victory and triumph,
and finally eftabWfted her freedom and independ
ence. Nor were we lei's gratified. when we found,
'Hat theperfon whose military skill and exertions
W1 been so happily succeeded, actuated by the
i nne Ipirit of patriotism, did not decline the ar
"lnous and toilsome office, but liltening to 'he
WEDNESDAY, November 4, 1739.
voice of his country, left the tranquil scenes of
private life, to secure those national bleftings,
wewere in the utniolt danger of losing. We
were fully persuaded, that the man, who during
so great a length of time, and in the most trying
c ire uin fiances, had been accepted by the multi
tude of his brethren, would, in this newllation,
enjoy rheir entire confidence, and ensure their
highest esteem : Nor have we been disappointed.
Permit us, Sir, to congratulate you on the hap
py eftabliffiment of the government of the Uni
on, on the patriotism and wisdom, which have
marked its public transactions, and the very ge
nera] approbation, which the people have given
to its measures.
At the fame time, Sir, being fully sensible, that
you are strongly impreiled with the neceihry of
religion, virtue and solid learning, for support
ing freedom and good government, andfixingthe
happinefsof the People upon a firm and perma
nent bafts, we beg leave to recommend to your
favorable notice, the University entrusted to our
care, which was early founded for promoting
these important ends.
When you took the command of the troops of
your country, you saw the University in a state of
depreflion—its members dispersed—its literary
treasures removed—and the Muses fled from the
din of arms, then heard within its walls. Hap
pily restored, in the course of a few months, by
your glorious fuccefles, to its former privileges,
and to a state of tranquility, it received its re
turning members, andouryouth have since pur
(ued, without interruption, their literary courses,
and fitted themselves for ufefulnefs in Church and
State. The public rooms, which you formerly
[aw empty, are now replenished with the neceflary
means of improving the human mind in literature
and science, and every thing within the walls
wears theafped; of peace, so neceflary to the cul
tivation of theliberal arts.
While we exert ourselves in our corporate ca
pacity,to promote the great objects of this inftitu
tion,we reft afl'ured ofyour protection and patron
age-
We wish you,Sir,the aid and support of Heaven,
while you are difchargjpgthe duties ofyour most
important Ration. May your success, in promot
ing the best interests of the nation, be equal to
your highest wishes! And after you shall have
long rejoiced in the prosperity and glory ofyour
country, may you receive the approbation of Him,
who ruleth among the Nations !
JOSEPH WILLARD, Prelident ofthe Univerfitj.
October 27, >789.
To the PRESIDENT and tELLOWS of Harvard
University in Cambridge.
GENTLEMEN,
REQU ESTING you to accept my sincere thanks
forthe Address with which you have thought
peoperto honor me, I intreat yoH to be persuad
ed of the refpectful and affecftionate consideration
with which I receive it.
Elected by the fufFrages of a too partial country
to the eminent and arduous situation, which I
now hold, it is peculiarly flattering to find an
approbation of my conduct in the judgment of
men, wliofe reverend characters mull fanition
the opinions they areplealed to express.
Unacquainted with the expreflion of sentiments
which I do not feel, you will do me justice by
believing confidently in my disposition to promote
the interest of science and true religion.
It gives uie sincere fatisfaction to learn the flou
rifhing state of your literary republic—afl'ured
of its efficiency in the past events of our political
l'yftem, and of its further influence on those means
which make the best support of good government,
I rejoice that a dire&ion of its measures is lodged
with men, wliofe approved knowlege, integrity
and patriotism, give an unqueOionable aflurance
of their fuccef^.
That the Muses may long enjoy a tranquil re
sidence within the walls of your University. and
that you, Gentlemen, may be happy in contem
plating theprogrefs of improvement through the
various branches ofyour important departments,
are among the most pleasing of my wishes and
expectations. GEORGE WASHINGTON.
Boston, October »7, j
The ADDRESS aj the INHABITANTS of the
Town of Boston, to THE P RESIDENT of the
United States of America.
SIR,
WE beg leave to express our happiness in the
honor you confer upon us by your visit to this
capital.
We are happy in the opportunity of again mak
ing our personal acknowledgments to a character,
on every principle, we are so deeply
indebted.
Every motive of esteem, duty and affection have
conspired to fprm in our minds the strongest at
tachment that the freeft people can feel to the
moil deserving citizen.
As men, we have long since confidercd you,
under God, as the great aud-glorio us Avenger of
\_PubliJbed on Wednsfday and Saturday .'J
the violated rights of humanity—As citizens we
have observed with peculiar fatisfaction, that ycu
have invariably reipedted those liberties, which
you have so fuccefsfully defended : And aS inha
bitants of a great commercial town, we attribute
the fecuricy we enjoy, to the, lingular mevit and
success of those measures, in the progress of the
war, which you had the honor to conduct.
It cannot but afford you the highcft pleasure,
when you compare our" present fltuation with the
signal diltrelles to which we wereexpofed during
the period in which this town waj in the pofieffion
of an exalperated enemy. Indignant at tiie mul
tiplied reliraintsoflioltiledomination, we fought
an afyium auiong our friends and connexions in
the country, and cheerfully abandoned our pro
perty and pofledions in tl»e common caule of A
merica—that we were so soon happily reinftatcd,
may he jultly imputed to the wisdom of those ar
rangements which compelled our invaders in the jr
retreat, to adopt a less policy than
that, which on other occasions, they so wantonly
pradfifed.
In every trying vjciflitude we have remarked the
conspicuous and unaffected piety of your heart,
and the wisdom and moderation of your counsels.
We. have feenyou relinquilh the ease and inde
pendence of private fortune to lead in the untri
ed dangers of a war, at the risque of your life
and reputation. With pleasure we have viewed
you retiring in \'idtory,and exhibiting a new exam
ple of patriotic virtue to an admiring world ; and
we now feel a llill higher fatisfadiion at your hav
ing once inorcfacrificed the sweets of domestic re
tirement in obedience to the united voice ofyour
countrymen.
Thele, Sir, are the fentinlents and reflections
which naturally occur on an attentive conlidera
tion ofyour palt conduit. To the future we look
for thole virtues which adorn the man, and mark
the wife and accomplished Legislator. We anti
cipate from your discernment the happy union of
liberty and law, lenity and vigor, mercy and jus
tice: The enlightened policy of a mind calm
amidst the influence of power,and uncorrupted by
the fafcinating allurements of avarice or am bition.
With these impressions the preservation ofyour
life through the varied scenes in which you have
been engaged,demands our grateful acknowjege
ments to the beneficent difpoferof human events.
It is one of the firfi: wishes of our hearts, that
you may be as happy in your present elevated Na
tion, as you have been diflinguifhed in your mi
litary character, and it is our fervent prayer to
the Almighty Ruler of the univerl'e, that the in
visible hand which led the citizens of America
through the dangers and calamities of war, may
ltill guard and protedt you as ail ornament to hu
man nature, and a bleiling to your country.
To the INHABITANTS of the Town of BOSTON.
Gentlemen,
THE obligations which your goodnefshas im
posed upon me, demand my grateful, and
receive my lincere acknowledgments. Your esteem
does me honor, and your affedtion communicates
the truest pleasure—by endeavoring to deserve, I
will indulge the hope of retaining them.'
Over rating my services, you have afcribedcon
fcquences to them, in which it would be injustice
to deny a participati jn to the virtue andfirmnefs
of my fellow citizens of this refpedtable town,
and Commonwealth.
If the exercise of my military commission has
contributed to vindicate the rights of humanity,
and to secure the freedom and happiness of my
country, the purpose for which it was aflumed has
been completed, and I am amply rewarded.—lf
in the prosecution of my civil duties, I shall be so
fortunate as to meet the wishes of my fellow citi
zens, and to promote the advantages of our com
mon interests, I shall not regret the facrifice,
which you are pleased to mention in terms so ob
liging.
The numerous sensations of heartfelt fatisfac
tion, which a review of past scenes affords to my
mind, in a comparison with the present happy
hour, are far beyond my powers of utterance to
express.
I rejoice with you, my fellow citizens, in every
circumstance that declares your prosperity—and
I do so, most cordially, because you have well
deserved to be happy.
Your love of liberty—your refpedt for the laws
—your habits of industry-—and your practice of
the moral and religious obligations, are the stron
gest claims to national and individual happinefjs
—and they will, I trust, be firmly and lastingly
eftabliflied.
Your wishes for my personal felicity imprefsa
deep and affectionate gratitude—and your pray
er to the Almighty Ruler of theUniverfe, in my
behalf, calls forth my fervent supplication, to
thai gracious and beneficent Being, for every
blefling on your temporal pnrfuits, and for the
perfection of your happiness hereafter.
G. WASHINGTON 7 .
Bofion, OZober 27, 1789.THE TOUR.
WORCESTER, (Majfdchufetts~\ Oift. 29.
O EVENT, fincethe peace, hath given more
general fatisfacftionto the inhabitants of the
States ot Connecticut,Maflacliufetts, and N.Hamp
shire, than the Visit proposed by THE PRESI
- T of the United States :—We may truly fay
that the people delight to honor him.— In every
place thro which he hath pafled, people of all
ranks, ages sexes have teftified their joy on
having an opportunity to behold the political Sa
vior of their country :—Neither time nor room
will permit us to give the particulars of the ref
pedtpaid to him in the several places thro which
he palled.
Information being received on Thursday even
ing that 1 HE PRESIDENT would be in town the
next morning, a number of respectable citizens,
about forty, paraded before sunrise, 011 horseback,
and went as far as Leicelter line to welcome him,
and escorted him into town.—The Worceller
Company of Artillery, commanded by Maj. Tread
"well, were already afiembled—oll notice being
given of his approach, five cannon were fired,
tor the five New-England States—three for the
three in the Union—one for Vermont, which will
Jpeedily be admitted—and one as a call to Rhode
llland to be ready before it be too late. When
the President arrived in fight of the meeting
house, eleven cannon were fired—he viewed with
attention the artillery company as he palled—
and exprefled to the inhabitants his sense of the
honor done him.—He Hopped at the United States
Anns, and breakfafled, and then proceeded 011 his
journey.—To gratify the inhabitants he politely
pafled through town on horseback, drelled in a
brown suit—and pleasure glowed in every coun
tenance.—Eleven cannon were againfircd.—The
gentlemen of the town escorted him a few miles,
and then took their leave.
At the line in Marlborough he was metby Capt.
Rice's company ofhorfe, well mounted, and in
complete uniform—they escorted him to Capt.
Williams' tavern, where he was met by the Mar
shal of th:s diftridt, and where he dined—and
from thence to Capt. Flags's in Wefton, where
he lodged, and breakfafled—when Capt. Fuller's
company of horse met him, and escorted him to
Cambridge.—He was saluted by the Watertown
artillery as he pafled. He flopped about an hour
at the feat he formerly occupied, when Comman
der in Chief of the American army. General
Brooks had muflered and paraded on Cambridge
Common about igoo of the neighboring militia,
all in complete uniform and equipment.—They
falured the President, who was on horseback, as
lie pafled them. His Excellency the Governor's
health would not permit him to go abroad—and
lie was con lequently deprived of partaking in the
pleasure of the day.—His Honor the Lieutenant
governor, the Hon. Council, Gov. Bowdoi n, &c.
from Boston, escorted by Col. Tyler's corps of
horse, met him at Cambridge. The Lieutenant
governor, Council, &c. &c. accompanied by the
Marshal and High Sheriff, with a party ofhorfe,
escorted hiin to Boston.
BOSTON, October 28.
WHEN an occasion presents itfelf, in which the
people ofthe United States can teftify to diilin
guiflied merit, rlieir refpedl and elleem—they
have never been known to let it pass unimproved.
—What then were to be expected from them,
when an opportunity offered of personally paying
these tributes to a Man, in whose character, what
ever is Great and Good—whatever dignifies and
adorns human nature, are so happily united ? All
that a grateful People could pay. And all this
has been paid.
In every part of the country thro which our be
loved President has pafled, the roads have been
lined with citizens, to hail him welcome—and the
military have escorted liiin from place to place.
Particularly to relate these grateful teilimonials
is impofliblefrom their number.
His Excellency the Governor, dn the firft infor
mation of the intention of The President, iflued
his orders for paying every military honor to the
illustrious visitant—gave him a cordial invitation
to His Excellency's house—and requelted his Ho
nor the Lieutenant governor and the Council to
meet liim at Cambridge—and accompany him in
to the capital.
Not lef's grateful than their fellow countrymen
are the citizens of the town of Boston. As soon
as a confirmation of THE PRESIDENT'S inten
tion was received, a Committee was immediately
appointed to draft an Address to be presented to
him, in behalf of the town, by the Selectmen—
and a considerable number of citizens convened
together f or the purpose, appointed a Committee
of fourteen, to recommend such arrangements
for the reception of so illuflrious a character, as
lhould be practicable.—This Committee having
met, recommended the arrangements which took
place—which were approved of in town-meet
ing, and made the aifl ofthe town by the re-ap
pointment of the Committee, to which the Select
men and another gentleman were joined.
These arrangements being completed—and in
formation having been received, thatTHEPRE-
would enter rlie town on Saturday, at
noon, at 10 o'clock the inhabitants ailembled and
formed their PROCESSION in the mall—from
whence, preceded by the Band of His Mod Chris
tian Majelty's fcjuadron—they proceeded to the
Fortification—where His Excellency the Gover
nor had previouily ordered the several military
corps of this metropolis to parade.—On the ar
rival oftheheadof the Procefiion at the entrance
of the town, the whole were ordered to halt—to
open ranks, and face inwards—which being done,
an avenue was formed, which reached from the
neck to the State-House, for THE PRESIDENT,
&c. to pass thro. At i o'clock, The President's
approach was announced by federal discharges
from Capt. Warner's artillery at Roxbury—
from the Dorchelter artillery polled 011 the cele
brated heights of that town —from Capt. John
son's artillery at the entrance of this town—and
from Castle William—by a royal falnte from the
ships of His Moll Chriilian Majelly's squadron,
—and by the ringing of all the bells.
After the Selectmen had waited on The Prefi
dent—exprctled to him the pleasure the citizens
enjoyed 011 his arrival,and gave a hearty welcome,
THE PROCESSION
Into town was in the following order.
MILITARY.
Commanded by Col. Bradford—
Indepcndant Light-Inlantry—under Major Otis.
Independent Fusiliers—under Capt. Lieut.
Laughton.
Capt. Johnson's Artillery.
Independent Cadets; under Major Scol lay. %
Music.
THE CIVIL.
SELECT-MEN, and Town-Clerk,
Deputy Sheriffs,
Sheriffs of, Suffolk and Middlesex, on horseback.
The Counci l, and
The Lieutenant-Governor, in carriages,
The Marshal of MjJfachufetts diflrift.
THE PRESIDENT,
In his military uniform,
On an elegant white Horfc, attended by Major Jackson,
and Mr. Lear, his Secretaries.
The VICE PRESIDENT.
The Hon. Mr. Bowdoin, and others in two
carriages.
Committee of Arrangements.
Commiflary-Gencral, and Treasurer of the State.
Representatives.
Ovcrfecrs of the Poor.
Town-Treasurer.
Magistrates of the town.
Consul of Holland.
Rev. Clergy of this, and other towns.
Lawyers and Physicians.
MERCHANTS and TRADERS.
Preceded by John Coffin Jones Efq, carrying a flag*. The
Device, A quay, with a ship coming in, and another loading. Motto,
Generous Commerce binds the Nations by a golden chain.
MARINE SOCIETY.
Preceded by Capt. Du nn, with a flag. The device, A Jhip pas-
Jing the Light-House, and a boat going to her.
Masters of Veflels.
Revenue Officers.
Officers of the late American Army, preceded by Dr. Eustis,
A Fleg with the Union Cockade.
Strangers.
Artizans, Tradesmen and Manufafiurers, alphabetically arranged.
BAKERS.
Preceded by Mr. John Jenkins, with a flag. Device, Three
IVheat Sheaves.
BLACKSMITHS.
Preceded by Mr. Clough, with a flag. Device, The Blacksmith's
Arms.
BLOCKMAKERS.
Preceded by Mr. Skilltngs. Device on the flag, A Lignumvitot tree,
with Blocks, Pumplogs and Sheaves.
BOAT-BUILDERS,
Preceded by Mr. T. Device on the flag, A Boat.
CABINET and CHAIR-MAKERS,
Preceded by Mr. George Bright. Device on the flag, A cabinet
and Chairs.
CARD-MAKERS,
Preceded by Mr. Giles Richards. Device on the flag, Seven links,
held by/even hands, representing the Company of Card-Makers,
with a pair of Cards in the centre. Motto, United to extend the
Manufactures of our Country.
CARVERS,
Preceded by Mr. Shillings. Drvice on their flag. A tree, and a
Carver at woik. Motto, The Arts flourifh under Liberty.
CHAISE and COACH-MAKERS.
Preceded by Mr. Thomas Bumjlead. Device on the flag, The
Coachmakers' Arms.
CLOCK and WATCH-MAKERS.
Preceded by Mr. Peck. Device on the flag, Truth fitting in a
cloud, pointing to the fun,; and Time underneath pointing to a time
piece ihewmg the apparent and true time. Motto, Tempus
RERum imperator, Timegoverneth all things.
COOPERS.
Preceded by Capt. Job W'heelright. Device on the flag, The
Cooper's Arms.
COPPER-SMITHS BRAZIERS, Sec.
Preceded by Mr. William (.lldwell. Device on the flag, A circle
of eleven bells, with blacklead pots, a fill, & c . Motto, Unison.
CORDWAINERS, &c.
Preceded by Mr. Samuel Bangs. Device on the flag, The Cord
wainer s Arms. Motto, Crifpm Crifpianus.
DISTILLERS,
Preceded bv Mr. Thomas Hill. Dev lC e on the flag, A Still, with
the Djlillcr's Arms Motto, Drop as rain, dijlillas dew.
DUCK-MANUFACTURERS.
Preceded by Mr. A!ker. Device on the flag, A Loom, with a
man weaving. Motto, Bojlon SaiU/oth Manu/aflwcrs The
workmen carrying flax, &c. and a specimen ot the cloth
GLAZIERS and PLUMBERS.
Preceded by Mr. Caleb Champney. Device on the flag, The Glazier's
Arms.
.1/ tnefl., v Vroujjn,'., a :i reea-h to the recommend,twn of the
Committee of Arrangements, were of white silk, of a yard fou*re,mth
/lavesfeven feet long, and alt very bandjmety painted. The artizars'
flags were numberedfrom one to 50.
GOLDSMITHS and JEWELLERS
Preceded by Mr. Benjamin Burt. Device on the da - r
smiths Arms. ht
HAIR-DRESSERS,
Preceded bv Mr. Jonathan Farnham. Device o, the (1,. it,.
Razor auaComt. Motto, By Fafhins A "'f<
HATTERS,
Preceded by Capt. Nathaniel Batch. Device on the fl» » ■
fupportwg a Hat. * 5
HOUSE-CARPENTERS
Preceded by Mr. Will,an Crajts. Device on the (W Tt, r
ttr's Arms. Motto, Honor God. "
LEATHER-DRESSERS,
Preceded by Mr. Adam Cofon. Device on the flag, A Buikirl
Glove.
LEMON-DEALERS,
Preceded by Mr. James Wheeling. Device on the flag. n I
mm.< with an Orange in the centre, ana a P,„ e . Apple .tthe JA,
Orange and Lime-Ireeforming thefhield. Motto, SuccefsttTrUu
LIMNERS and PAINTERS,
Preceded by Col. Majoh. Device on the (lag, The Pamirs Arm
MASONS,
Preceded by Major Bell. Device on the flag, The Mafm's An,
MAST-MAKERS,
Preceded by Mr. Samuel Hams. Device on the flag, A Boufhr,!
, Top and Cap. J '
MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMF*iT-MAKERS.
Preceded by Mr. William Hager. Device on the flag, A fW„„
and a compass card. Motto, The Artijl's Pride, andLJ"
Guide. ,
PAPER STAINERS,
Preceded by Mr. JoJeph Hove), Device on the flag, The ht,
Mott °> M y the fan daughters ofColmbuki
themjelves and their walls with our own manujaflurcs.
PEWTER F.RS,
Preceded by Mr. Thomas Green. Device, The Pewterei's An:.
PRINTERS and BOOKBINDERS,
Preceded by Mr. Benjamin F.des. Device on the flag. AP m (,„
refs on one fide. Motto, The Art which prejervei illml
Reverie, The Stationers Arms.
RIGGERS
Preceded by Mr Wyer. Device on the fUg, AJkip witkher it,, uj,.
ROPE-MAKERS.
Preceded by Mr..William U'Neil. Device on the flag, n u ,„
the,me, Patroness of Rope-makers, with hemp roundher mil; j
jpinning wheel, with eleven spinners pointiugto ,t, and a ciiltl tdk
Motto, Succejs to American inanujaElures.
SADDLERS,
Preceded by Mr. Zachariah Hicks. Device on the flag, Three Fn-
Saddles
SAIL-MAKERS.
Preceded by Capt. Samuel Barret. Device on the flag, A Beiul,
Tarring of Twine, and Roping a Sail.
SHIPJOINERS,
Preceded by Capt. John Ballard. Device on the flag, The SUf.
joiner's Arms.
SHIPWRIGHTS, &c.
Preceded by Deacon Gibbon Sharp. Device on the flag, The Hull
of a Ship, and thirteen Stars on a cross.
SUGAR BOILERS,
Preceded by Mr. Samuel Snel/mg. Device on the flag, The Sign,
boiler's Arms.
TALLOW-CHANDLERS, &c.
Preceded by Mr. William FrobiJher. Device on the fllg, Tim
Doves with Olive Branches in their mouths, and two wax Utiles.
Motto, As shines The Presid en t, so let your tights Jhinc.
TANNERS and CURRIERS.
Preceded by Mr. Samuel Bajs. Device on the flag, TheTam's
Arms.
TAYIORS,
Preceded by Mr. Ballard. Device on the flag, The Taylor's Am.
TIN-PLATE WORKERS.
Preceded by Mr. Howe. Device on the flag, The Tinman's Am.
TOBACCONISTS.
Preceded by Mr. M'Kean. Device on the flag, A Handfup/crli'i
a Hand of Tobacco, a Roll and a Paper of Tobacco.
TRUCKMEN,
Preceded by Mr. Jeremiah Gore. Device on theflag, Two/trjc
with a Truck loaded, aud a man driving.
WHARFINGERS,
Preceded bv Mr. Thomas Moore. Device on the flag, Acmtlodii
with wood, drawn by three horses. Motto, Wood IVharJingers
WHEELWRIGHTS,
Preceded by Mr. Jennings, Device ou the flfag, The Wkei
Wright's Arms.
SEAMEN,
Under the orders of Captains Job Prince and Allen Hallet, carry
ing a blue Ensign.
SCHOLARS,
Of the several Schools, under the care of their refpe&ive Mailers
each with a quill.
On the arrival of the front of the Procession at
the Old Brick Meeting, the whole halted—and
the Military, the Selectmen and Council conduc
ed THE PRESIDENT through tne Triumphal
Arch erected across the Main-Street, to the Senate
Chamber, by the East door of the State House,
from whence The President pafled through the
Representatives' Chamber to
THE COLONNADE (a)
erected for the occasion in the Weft end of the
State-House, composed of fix large columns, fif
teen feet high, and a balluftrade hung, in front
with Persian carpets, on which were wrought
thirteen roses. The circle of the colonnade mea
lured forty-four feet, and projected boldly into
the Main-Street, foasto exhibit, in aftronglight,
" THE MAN OF THE PEOPLE." The central
Weft window of the State House was the door
through which The President pafled to the balluf
trade descending from a platform foureafy
to the floor of the gallery, which was furni/heu
with armed chairs, and spread with rich carpets.
On this platform was a pedestal, covered with
green, supporting the figure of Plenty, wit'
her Cornucapia and other emblems. On his en
trance into this Colonnade, in the midst of admir
ing thoufands,inftantly the welkin rang with lou
huzzas !—filence ensued—The President g' ac< "
(a) Designed by Hon. Mr. Dawes.fully bowed Co all around —and the feled: choir of
lingers, with Mr. Rea at their head, immediate
ly fang an ODE*, in
THE TRIUMPHAL ARCH (b)
which was adjacent to the Colonnade. This arch
is 18 feet high, composed of a center arch 14 feet
wide, and one on each fide, of 7 feet, with an
lonick pilafter,and proper imports between them.
The frieze exhibits 13 liars 011 a blue ground,and
a handsome white dentule cornice is carried to
the height of the platform ; above is painted
a balluftrade of interlaced work, in the center of
which is an oval tablet, with the following in
fcriptions On one fide, "TO THE MAN WHO
UNITES ALL HEARTS"—and on the other, —
"TO COLUMBIA'S FAVORITE SON." At the
end adjoining the State-House, is a pannel deco
rated with a Trophy, composed of the arms of
the United States, of the Commonwealth of Mas
sachusetts, and our French Allies, crowned with
a laurel wreath—overtliefe an inscription, Bos
ton relieved March 17, 1776" —as a proof of
a grateful remembrance of the services rendered
this town by the illustrious President in his mili
tary character. Over the center arch, a rich ca
nopy of 20 feet 111 height was erecfied, with the
American Eagle perched above—the whole form
ing a fpeiftacle, which, while it captivated the eye
of the beholder, added much to the teltiinonials
of therefpedt of the day. v
His Excellency the Vicc President, His Honor
tbe Lieutenant Governor, Governor Bowdoin,
the Council, The President's Secretaries, the
Marshal of Maflachufetts Diftriift, the High Sheriff
of the county of Suffolk, &c. were in the gallery,
with The President.
After the Ode was sung, the Procession pa(Ted
The President, and proceeded into Court Street,
where the whole were difmifled.
The military companies then escorted The Pre
sident to his residence in Court Street, after which
they returned into State Street, gave three vollies
—and were difmifled.
The number of people collected to fee their be
loved President, it is almost impolfible to compute
—The streets were crouded—
You would have thought the very windows mov'd
To fee him as he pafs'd. so many young and old,
Thro cafemeots darted their dehring eyes.
But from the precautions taken, and more from
the occasion of their meeting, no one accident
happened to mar the pleasure enjoyed on the
auspicious day.
ILLUMINATIONS
And fireworks were exhibited in several parts
ofthe town—ln State-Street,the Bunch-os-Grapes
—the Eaflern Coffee-Houfe, HAYT'sand Jones's
Room, &c. made a handsome appearance—and se
veral fire works were let off from the Castle, and
from the French (hips, which were very beauti
fully illuminated.
(0) Defignedby Mr. C. Bulfinch.
ODE,
TO COLUMBIA'S FAVORITE SON.
* Sung on the arrival of The Prefdent at the State Houje.
GREAT WASHINGTON the Hero's come,
Each heart exulting hears the found,
Thousands to their Deliverer throng,
And shout him welcome all around !
Now in Jull Chorus join the Jong,
And/hout aloud great WASHINGTON.
There view Columbia's favorite Son,
Her Father, Saviour, Friend and Guide!
There fee th'immortal Washington !
His Country's Glory, Boast and Pride !
Now in full Chorus, &c.
When the impending storm of war,
Thick clouds and darkness hid our way,
Great WASHINGTON our Polar Star,
Arose ; and all was light as day !
Now in full Chorus, isc.
Twason yon plains thy valor rose,
And ran like fire from man to man ;
'Twas here thou humbled Paria's foes,
And chac'd whole legions to the main !
Now in full Chorus, £3c.
Thro' countless dangers, toils, and cares,
Our Hero led us fafely on :
With matchless skill dire&s the wars,
TillVift'ry cries—the day's his own !
Now in full Chorus, &c.
His country fav'd, the contest o'er,
Sweet peace reftor'd his toils to crown,
The Warrior to his native shore
Returns, and tills his fertile ground.
Now in full Chorus, &c.
But soon Columbia call'd him forth
Again to save her finking fame,
To take the Helm, and by his worth,
To make her an immortal name!
Now infull Chorus, &c.
Nor yet alone through Paria's (hores,
Her fame her mighty trumpet blown ;
en Europe, Afrtc, Asia, hears,
And emulates the deeds he's done !
Now in full Chorus, &c.
'"(following Ode was to have been tbe firfl Performance, in the Concert
of Sacred Mujic, at the Stone Chaptl in Boflon.~\
T .» ODE.
*0 the PRESIDENT ofthe UNITED STATES, on his arrival at
BOSTON.
RECITATIVE.
BEHOLD the man! whom virtues raise
The highest in the patriot throng!
so him the mufeher homage pays,
, And tunes the song.
A I R.
' llluftrious Visitant! defizu'd
By Heaven's invincible decrce*
T' enoble and exalt the mmd,
And teach a Nation to be free.
Welcome, thrice welcome to the spot,
Where once thy conq'ring banners wav'd,
O never be thy praise t'orgol,
By those thy matchless valour fav'd,
Thy beams in Eajlcrn Ikies,
Set! Europe lhares the facied flame—
And hosts ol patriot heroes rife,
To emulate thy glorious name.
Labor awhile suspends his toil,
His debt of gratitude to pay ;
And friendlhip wears a brighter smile ;
And Music breathes a fwccter lay.
May health and joy a wreath entwine,
And guard thee thro' this scene" of flrife ;
Till seraphs fKall to thee aflign,
A wreath ofeverlafting life.
B O S T O N, October 28.
Yesterday his Excellency the Governour and
Council gave a sumptuous and elegant dinner, at
Faneuil-Hall, to The PRESIDENT of the United
States—At which werealfoprefent, the Vice-Pre
sident, the Lt. Governor, Council, Hon. Mr.
Bowdoin, Judge of the Supreme Court, Officers
of his Molt Chriltian Majesty's Fquadron, Foreign
Consuls, President of Harvard-College, the Clergy
of this town, Civil and Military Officers, and
Gentlemen of diftintftion, to the number of 150.
On this occasion the Hall was beautifully orna
mented with the several flags, &c. displayed in
the late Procession, amounting to 48. We lament
that the want of room will not permit us to go
into particulars.
Owing to severe indisposition, His Excellency
the Governour could not attend the public din
ner yesterday.
Yesterday THE PRESIDENT honoured the
Stone-Chapel with his presence to hear the Con
cert of Sacred Music ; but on account of the in
disposition of several of the firft performers, the
Mufick was postponed until Wednesday next.
Several pieces were however given, which merited
and received applause.
On the arrival of THE PRESIDENT of the
United States on Saturday last, the Right Hon.
Viscount de Ponteves Gien, and the other of
ficers of his Mod Christian Majesty's squadron,
conducted by the Hon. Consul of France, paid
their refpedts to that illustrious character at his
residence in Court-Street.
On Sunday last His Excellency the Governour
visited The President, at his residence in Court-
Street—which The President returned on Mon
day.
NEW-YORK, NOVEMBER 4.
Extratt of a letter from B oft on, OClober 27.
I ain sorry to differ in sentiment with you, ref
pc(fting the mode we adopted to Ihew our refpedts
to our illustrious vifitant.—lt was imprefled on
every mind that the crowd would be immense—
that some plan of order would be absolutely ne
ceflary to prevent confufion and accidents—and
that as many persons as polfible might be accom
modated—these considerations, with the recol
lection of our (enfations on the ratification of the
Constitution, which produced a Proceflion, as the
liveliest demonstration of the public feliciry on
that event—but above all, the Circumstance of The
PRESIDENT'S never having seen an exhibition
of the kind, led to the determination. The
effect has been answerable to our wishes :—The
multitudes of inhabitants—and people from the
country, which thronged the Street, from Rox
bury to the Stare House, nearly three miles, were
beyond any colletflion ever before seen in this
quarter :—The papers will give you an idea of
the Procelfion—but the innumerable incidents
which transpired, indicative of the curiosity, ref
petfl and veneration of the admiring thousands,
no pen can do justice to.—Conceive of the feelings
of a man suddenly placed in a situation which
foraferies of years he had ardently wifliedto re
alize, as the summit of his expeditions, and you
will form some faint idea of the sensations ofthe
great Body of our citizens on this occasion, who
at firft gave 110 credit to the report that this visit
was intended—considering the news too good to
be true :—Believe me, Sir, it was a joyful day
with us—every heart was affeded—and pleasure
fat on every countenance—The ladies in a par
ticular manner, were peculiarly gratified—Rang
ed in every poflible situation from whence they
could catch a glance of their deliverer, andpro»
tefftor—every eye beamed complacency and de
light. No accident happened—the arrangements
were judicious, and tliofe appointed to luperin
tend thein executed their parts with judgement
and propriety. But,
Not crowds admiring, as he mov'd along,
The arch triumpha', or the choral song ; %
Nor grand Proceilions, in whofeeafigns wave
The highest honours of the free, and brave ;
Nor all that patriot zeal and genius fir'd,
Could fully speak what gratitude infpir'd.
" Shall we fay that public spirit has no exist
ence but in the imaginations of nioralifts and
philofopliers ? far be it—public spirit is Virtue
in politics, which, tho it may be counterfeited,
ami pretentions may be made to it by those who
are really deltitute of it, is yet an active, living
principle, bringing forth the molt noble fruits."
it is undoubtedly a fadt that those who are defti
tuteof principle in politics, are devoid of every
moral fen tiinent.—Hence a meer politician, who
fliapes liiscondudt according to his profpedts, and
'hilts with every wind that blows—who fqtinrcs
his purluits with those cii cumltances that may belt
promote his ambition or avarice, without a su
preme regard to the public good,is one of the mult
deteltable animals that prey upon society.
1 o encourage our dependence on Divine Pro
vidence, we are allured by the pen of inspira
tion, that " while the earih remains, feed-time
and harvell, day and night, winter and fuimner
Jhall not cease," and to animate our hopes that the
blelfings of freedom shall be ours, and descend
to our pollerity, let us refledt 011 the present spirit
of enlightened patriotism that animates the citi
zens of these States. Behold them coalescing
under a wife, a just, and liberal form of Govern
ment—A system, which while they contemplate
its perfections (as a fkilful artist does the happy
result of his labors) gratitude expands their bo
fomto the fountain of all wisdom, who hath 111-
lpired them to shelter the ark of their liberties
beneath its protecting wings.
Behold their demonstrations of attachment and
veneration to the illustrious personages whom
their free fuffrages have placed at the head of the
confederated republic—a circumstance highly e
vincive of their affection to their public, and per
sonal characters—and of those principles on
which, the union of the States, and the prospe
rity of the government are suspended.
Behold the harmony, peace and plenty, with
whichheaven hasblelled our country—the exten
tionjof our agriculture, arts, and Commerce—the
encreafe of our schools, and feminartcs of learn
ing—diffufing the beams of knowledge far and
wide—cementing and brightening our union and
profpedts, and railing the human mind to degrees
of improvement and refinement hitherto unkown.
Behold, under the auspices of good govern
ment, extensive plans of Manuafadtures are for
med, and the American genius, in discoveries
and inventions bursting upon the world with a
lustre that astonishes mankind—while our men of
wealth, relieved by the Constitution, from the
dread of paper-money, and tender-laws, are dila
ting their purse firings, throwing their long dor
mant specie into circulation—extending their
commercial enterprises to every clime, where
men are found, or where fliips can fail.—Thus,
while commerce enlarges the demand for exports,
our resources are brought forward—the arm of
industry is nerved—the hopes of the farmer and
the artizan are animated—and our capacity to an
nihilate our public debts, is made abundantly ap
parent—These, among a thousand other ideas,
rush upon the mind in contemplating our situa
tion—and so long as" our eyes are upon the faith
ful of the land," in eledling our civil rulers—so
long as we are juftto ourselves, and suitably prize
the Constitution which is the pledge of" every
blefling—while the earth remains—"Peace, Li
berty and Safety" shall be our rich inheri
tance.
EXTRACTS.
Why does the name of exile grate the ear, and
weigh down the heart ? why is it dreaded more
than death ? It is not the allurements of inani
mate nature, the excellence of the climate, the
richness of the foil, nor the verdure of the fields,
which chain down happiness to a narrow spot of
earth.—Friends are the ornament, the riches,
the attrattkn of our native land—with them, the
wilderness, and the solitary place is made glad ;
and the defart shall rejoice and bloflom as the rose.
Were the laws less severe with refpedl to deb
tors ; -were people less afraid of ajail on failure of
payment ; there would be less credit, and, conse
quently less dealing in these commercial states—
but if credit were less, would not extravagance
leflen also I Should we feefuch sumptuous tables
among people whose circumstances do not war
rant them ? would such quantities of costly wines
be drank ; or spirits intoxicate so many persons ?
Should we feefuch gorgeous apparel on our belles
andbeauxs, if neither merchant, grocer, mercer,
nor taylor would trust ?
ANECDOTE,
The casuists mi<>ht amuse themfelies with fettling whether the
following action be raided under the banner of jufticc or inhu
manity. The Editor had a friend, who lludied at a celebrated
university, and having a flrong predile&ion for anatomy, took great
pleasure in attending on diffeftions. One evening he, with many
others, were anxiously attending the commencement of that opera
tion, on the body of a notorious malefa&or, who lay stretched out
on the table belore them : the surgeon, who had been placing it in
a proper position, turning to the company, a ddrefled thfm thus ;
" I am pretty certain, gentlemen, from the warmth of the fubjefl;
and the flexibility of the limbs, that by a proper degree of atten
tion and care, the vital heat would return, and life in confequcnce
take place. But then, when it is considered what a rascal -we
ltould again have among us; that he was executed for having
murdered a girl who was with child by him,, and that were he to
be restored to lite, he would probably murder somebody dfe :
when these things are coolly considered, I own it is my opinion,
that we had better proceed with the difTctlion." With these
words he plunged the knife into the bread of the carcase, and pre
cluded at once all dread of future alTaflination or hopes of repent
ance.
DIED]—On Sunday morning, Thomas C-erry,the only Son
of The Hun Elbridgc Cerry, Esq.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION «f a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
(CONTINUED.)
" THE people have less meansand opportuni
" ties tor luxury than those pompous Handing
" powers, whether in the hands ofoneorinany."
But if the sovereignty were exercised wholly by
one popular alleinbly, they would then have the
means and opportunities in their hands as much
as the king has in a monarchy, or the senate in
an aristocracy or oligarchy; and much more than
either the kings or nobles have in the tripartite
compolition we contend for ; because in this the
king and nobles have really no means or oppor
tunities of luxury but what'are freely given them
be the "people, whose representatives hold the
jpurfe. Accordingly, in the simple democracy,
or repretentative democracy, which our author
contends for, it would be found, that the great
leaders in the aflembly would soon be as luxur
ious as ever kings or hereditary nobles were, and
they would make partifansby admitingallbciates
in a luxury, which they would support at the ex
pence of the minority; and every particle of the
executive power would be proitituted, new lu
crative officers daily created, and larger appoint
ments annexed to support it : nay, the power of
judging would be proitituted to determine causes
in favour of friends and against enemies, and the
plunder devoted to the luxury. Thepeople would
be found as much inclined to vice and vanity as
kings or grandees,and would run on to Hill greater
excess and riot : for kings and nobles are always
rellrained, infome degree, by fear of thepeople,
and their censures ; whereas the people them
lelves, in the cafe we put, are not restrained by
fear orffiame, having all honour and applause at
their disposal, as well as force. It does not ap
pear, then, that they are less luxurious ; on the
contrary they are more luxurious, and neceflarily
become so, in a simple democracy.
Our author triumphantly concludes, " it is
" clear the people, thatis, their fucceflive repre
" fentatives" (all authority in one centre, and
that centre the nation) " mult be the best gover
" nors, because the current of fucceflion keeps
" them the less corrupt and presumptuous." He
must have forgot that these fucceifive representa
tives have all the executive power, and will use
it at once for the express purpose of corruption
among their constituents, to obtain votes at the
next election. Every commission will be given,
and new offices created, and frefh fees, salaries'
perquisites, and emoluments added, on purpose
to corrupt more voters. He must have forgot
that the judicial power is in the hands of these re
presentatives, by his own suppositions, and that
falfe accusations of crimes will be sustained to
ruin enemies, disputes in civil causes will be de
cided in favour of friends ; in short, the whole
criminal law, andthe whole civil law concerning
lands, houses, goods, and money, will be made
subservient to the covetoufnefs, pride, ambition,
and ollentation of the dominant party and their
chiefs. " The current of fucceflion," instead of
keeping them " less corrupt and presumptuous,"
is the very thing that annually makes them more
corrupt and ffiamelefs. Instead of being more
" free from luxurious courses," they are more
irreiiftably drawn into thein ; instead of being
" free from oppreflive and injurious practices,"
their parties at elections will force them into
them : and all these things they must do to hold
up the port and splendor of their tyranny ; and if
any of them hesitates at any imprudence that his
party demands, he alone will be rejected, and
another found whose conscience and whose ffiame
are Sufficiently subdued. (To be continued.)
MR. ADAMS'S LETTERS.
LETTER VIII.
Amsterdam. Oct. 16, 1780.
S I R,
THE eighth enquiry is, "What England
PROPERLY OUGHT TO DO, TO FORCE Ame-
RICATO SUBMISSION, AND PRESERVE HER IN IT ?
HOW MUCH TIME, MONEY, AND HOW MANY VES
SELS WOULD BE WANTED FOR THAT PURPOSE ?
I afl'ure you, Sir, I am as much at a loss to in
form you, in this particular, as Lord George Ger
maine would be. I can fix upon no number of men,
uor any sum of money, nor any number of ships,
that I think would be fuiKcient. But moll certain
ly, no number of Ihips or men which Great Britain
now has, or ever can have, nor any sum of money
that flie will ever be able to command, will be
fufficient.
If it were in the power of Great Britain to fend
an hundred thouland men to America, and they
had men of war and transports enough to convey
them there in fafety, amidst the dangers that
await now from French,Spanilh,and American men
of war, they might potiibly get poflellion of two
or three Provinces, and place so many garrisons
in various parts, as to prevent the people from
exercising the functions of government, under
their new constitutions ; and they might set up
a (ham appearance of a civil government under
the King : But Ido not believe that an hundred
thouiand men could gain and preserve them the
civil government of any three States in the Con
federation. The States are at such diltances from
oneanother; there are such difficulties in palling
from one to another by land ; and such a multi
tude of ports are neceflary to be garrisoned and
provided, in order to command any one Colony ;
that an army of an hundred tlioufand men would
soon find itfelf consumed, in getting and keeping
poilellion of one or two States. But it would re
quire the armies of Semiramisto command and
preserve thein all.
Such is the nature of that country, and such
the character of the people,that if the English were
to fend ever so many Ihips, and ever lb many
troops,they never would subdue all the Americans.
Numbers, in every State, would fly to the moun
tains, and beyond the mountains, andthere main
tain a conltant war againlt the Englilh. In Ihort,
1 the Englilh, if they could conquer America, which
they never can, nor any one State in it, it would
colt them a ltanding army of an hundred thou
sand men to preserve their conquelt; for it is in vain
iorrhem ever tothink of any other government's
taking place again under the King of England,
but a military government.
As to the number of Ihips, it must be in pro
portion to the number of troops : they mult have
transports enough to carry their troops, and men
of war enough to convoy them through their nu
merous French, Spanilh, and American enemies
upon the seas.
AS to the fuins of money, you will easily fee,
that adding two hundred millions more to the two
hundred milions they already owe, would not
procure and maintain so many Ihips and troops.
It is very certain the Englilh can never fend
any great numbers more of troops to America.
The men are not to be had : the money is not to
be had : the seamen, and even the tranfpovts, are
not to be had. 1 have the honor to be, &c.
JOHN ADAMS.
I give this to Mr. Calkoen as my private opin"
ion concerning the queltion he alks. As Mr. Cal
koen observes, this is a queltion that had better
not be publicly answered : but time will Ihew the
answer here given is right. It would, at present,
be thought extravagant, or enthuliafm. Mr.
Adams, only requelts Mr. Calkoen to look over
this letter a lew years hence, and then fay what
his opinion ofit is. Vi«Sories gained by the Eng
lilh, in taking sea-port towns, or in open field
fighting, will make no difference in my answer co
this queltion. Victories gained by the Englilh,
will conquer theinfelves looner than the Ameri
cans. Fighting will not fail, in the end, to turn
to the advantage of America, altho the Englilh
may gain an advantage in this or that particular
engagement.
ABSTRACT "/JOURNAL of the first session oj the SENATE
cj the UNITED STATES.
MONDAY, May 4.
Agreeabfy to the order of the day, the Senate proceeded in the
second reading of a bill, entitled " An ad to regulate the time and
manner of administering certain oaths," and to the confidcration of
the amendments reported by the Committee, which are at follow ■
In line 1, strike out the words " Congrefsof the United States,"
and lnfe'l, " Senate and Representatives of the United States of
Amcrica 111 Congress Assembled."
At the end of the second paragraph add the words " of the Se
nate, and insert the following clause, " And be it further enaftcd
" That the membersof the feveralState Legislatures, and all exel
" cutive and judicial officers of the several dates, who have been
" heretofore chosen or appointed, or who (ball be chosen or ap
" pointed before the !ft day of August next, and who lhallthen be
" lnoffice, (ball, within one month thereafter, take the fame oath or
" affirmation, except w here they (ball have taken it before ; which
" may be adminiftrred by any person authorised bythelaw of the
State in which (uch office (ball be holden, to administer oaths-
And the members of the several State Legislatures, and all ex
" ecutive and judicial officers of the several States, who (ball be cho
" fen or appointed, ester the said firft day of August, {hall, before
" they proceed to execute the dutiesof their refpeftive offices
" take the foregoing oath or affirmation, which lhali be adminif.'
" tered by the person or persons, who by the law of the State
" (hall be authorised to administer the oath of office; and the per
son or persons so administering the oath hereby required to be
" taken, shall cause a record or ceitificate thereof to be made, in
the fame Planner as by the law of the State, he, or they (hall bc'di
" rested to record oj certify the oat h of office."
In the last paragraph, strike out the words " of the United States
of America," in the third and fourth lines, and insert the fame
words in the fourth line next after the words "as the cafe may be."
And being accepted, Tuesday morning, 11 o'clock, was afligned
for the third reading of the bill.
The report of the Committee to whom was referred the motion
made the id instant, upon the mode of fending messages to, and
receiving them from the House of Representatives, was read, and
ordered to lie for consideration. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, May 5 .
Agreeably to the oider of the day, the bill, entitled " An ast to
regulate the time and manner of administering certain oaths," was
rear! a third time, and parted the Senate with amendments.
O'dered.That the Secietary carry the aforementioned bill to the
Houle of Representatives, together with the amendments, and ad
dreis the Speaker in the following words :
S: r,
THE Senate Bave patted a hill, entitled, '< An ast to regulate
the tune and manner of administering certain oaths," with amend
ment?. to which they desire the concurrence of your House
Ordered., That when a bill has passed the Senate, the Secretary
ha.l endorfc the final determination thereon, and the day when
uch final queihon was taken, previous to its bemgtran&nitted to
the Houle ot Representatives. Adjourned to Thurfdav
THURSDAY, May 7.
The Committee, appointed to confer with such Committee as
might be appointed on the part of the House of Representatives to
report what Style or Titles it will be proper to annex to the Office
nfh ,h l"I V ' re Pref,dent of tbe United States, if any
other than those given m the Reported : Which Re.
port w?,s ordered to lie for confidcration.
M ThC ft ßeport of , l , heC f™ m '«re upon the motion committed
T".r 3 the firft P ara e«P h accepted
Ordeti, that wjj- a meffen-r (ball come from tbe House of
Representatives to the Senate, and fliall be announced W '
«eper, the messenger or messengers, being a Member nr il!?''
nf the House, shall be received within the bar, the p rc f lc l
when the message is by one Member, and the Senate alt™'!, 5
isby two or more: If themeffengerbe not a Member of ,K,u 1
be (hall be received at the bar, by the Secretary, and 'he hl] '
papers that he may bring, (ball there be received from hun h ;
Secretary, and be by him delivered to the President
The Committee appointed to prepare ananfwertothe Pre£i
Speeth, delivered to the Senate and House of Reprefentative,^'!.'
United States, reported. r " !
(For the An Jour of theSeuitt to the Pujide ,us Spited, [ a
per of Muy 20.) J tc '
Beckley, the Clerk of the House of Representatives deW
ed a message, purporting, " That the House bad concurred with.V
Senate 111 the amend men's proposed on a bill, jntitledAn ast
regulate the time ana manner of adraunfiering certain oaths"!! 'j
" That the House proposed an amendment, 10 the third la-nd
ment, by inferring af.et the word " Legislatures in the fcrft B j- P ".
the woixjs " At the next session of tfiefaid Legislatures !e(p«.
He also brought to the Senate a rqfolve of the House of R eDrt
fentatives, appointing Mr. Bland, Mr. TrijmbulV. audMr VmiM
a Comnvttee on the part of the House, 10 cgn/ej; with aov Com
mittee to be appointed onthepartof the Senate, and report - |,»
rules to be eftablilhed between the two Houses, for the enrollment
&c. of the a£b of Congress, and to coafer on the mode of pideni
ing addreffcs, bills, See. to the Profidcnt."—And be withdrew
The Senate agreed to. the amendment proposed by the House of
Reprefeatatives to the amendment to the afore-mentioned BiU-
And appointed Mr. Langdon, Mr. Read, and Mr Henry a
Committee on their pari, for the purpose exprefled in the refotoe
of the House of Representatives received this day jwhiciuamhei
with tbe concurrence of tbe Senate to the ameudnjent on the a
mendment to the bill above mentioned, was carried to the Hjo!s
by the Secretary. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, MAY 8.
The Report of the Committee appointed to determine « Whit
Style or Titles it will be proper to annex to the Office of (Widen
and Vice President of the United States, if any other
given in the Constitution"—and, to confer with a Comm
of the House of Reprelcntatives appointed for that purpose- Was
considered and disagreed to.
The question was taken " Whether the ofthe United
States (hall be addrefledby the Titleof His Exce l uekcy
it patted in the negative.
On motion, That a Committee of three be appointed to con
sider and report under what Title it will be proper for the Senate
to addreCs the president ctfthe United States, Ma. Mr. Ells.
worth, and Mr. Johnson, were elected. AdioinoccT.
SATURDAY, May 9.
Mr. Beckley, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, deli
vered a message, purporting, That the House had accepted the
report of a Committee appointed to consider wh<tf. Style or Title
it will be proper to annex to the Officc of President arui of Y|<*
President of the United States, if any other than those giyep io the
Constitution. And he withdrew.
Ordered, That Mr. Few, Mr. Maclay and Mr. Strong, be a Com
mitteeto view the apartments in the City Hall, and to catiLrwith
any Committee that may be appointed by the House of Refuefea
tatives for that purpose, and report howlhe fame fl\aU appro-,
printed.
The Committee appointed to consider under what Title it will
be proper for the Senate to address the Prciideutof the Umidi
States, Reported—The consideration of which was poftponc4 un
til Monday next.
The Secretaiy was charged with a message to the Houfeof Re
presentatives, with the order of Senate paflVd the 7th instant, on the
mode adopted by the Senate in receiving communications from the
House.
Ordered, That Mr. Lee, Mr. Ellfworth and Mr. Johnfoa be>
Committee, to confer with any Committee, to be appointed by the
House of Representatives on the difference of opinion now subsist
ing between the two Houfqs, rcfpc&ing the Title of the Pielident
ofthe United States—And on motion for Reconfidcration,
ftru&ion to the Committee was agreed to as follows:
" That they consider and report under what Title it will be
proper for the President of the United States in future to bead
drefTed, and to confer thereon with such Committee as the House
of Representatives may appoint for that purpose."
The Secretary carried to the House of Representatives the ap
pointment of a committee on the part of the Senate to view the
rooms of the City Hail, and to confer upon (heir appropriation,
—The Rejection of the Report of the Committee appointed to
consider what Style, Sec. it will be proper to annex to the Offices
of President and of Vice President, —And the appointment of 1
Committee on the part of the Senate to confer, on a Title under
which it will be proper to address the Prefidentof the United States.
Adjourned.
MONDAY, iu
Ordered, That the consideration of the Report of the Committee
upon " the Title bv which it will be proper for the Senate to ad
dress the President" be postponed until Tuefdaynext.
Ordered, That a Committee to coufift of Mr. Ellfworth, Mr-
Carroll, and Mr. Few, be appointed to consider and reporta mode
of carrying into execution the second paragraph, of tha thirdfec
tion, of the firft article ofthe Constitution.
The Committee appointed the 13th of April to confer witha
Committee of the House of Representatives, upon the future dispo
sition of the papers in the Office of the late Secretary of Congrefe,
made a Report which was ordere4 to lie until a Committee ap
pointed May 7, to confer with a Committee of the House " Onjoint
rules to be eftabliflied for the enrollment, &c. of thjc a&s of Con
gress" (hould report. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, May 12.
Mr. Morris, from the State of Pennsylvania, appeared and took
his feat in the Senate.
Mr. Beckley, the Clerk of the House of Reprefentatives,l deh
vered a message, purporting, that the House had concurred in the
appointment of a Committee on their part,confiftingof Mr. White»
Mr. Scott, and Mr. Sturges, to confer, with the Committee]ap
pointed on the part of the the Senate, May 9th, on the appropria
tion ofthe rooms in the City Hall;—Alfo, that the House had ap
pointed a Committee, consisting of Mr. Maidifoa, Mr. Trumbull,
Mr. Page, Mr. Benfon, and Mr. Sherman, t.o confer with any Com
mittee that the Senate shall appoint on the di&greeing voleso
the Senate and House of Representatives upon the report of their
joint Committee, appointed, to consider what Titles inallbegi vei *
to the President and to the Vice President of the UrytgJ ta " s ' 1
any other than those given in the Constitution. —And hewithcrev.^
Ordered that the Committee apppointed the gth of M a Y
consider "By what Title it will be proper for the Senate to a " .J*
the President of the United States," be inftrufted to confer wt
the Committee ofthe House of Representatives, agreeably 101 e
proportion in their mefTage of this day. _ r
A motion for the Committee, appointed to address the Pre'
dent, to proceed, was postponed to Thursday next. •
IF JOHN BAYfcS, xuko htrly hvci v'th «
tapJtco-Neck, near Baltimore, and, formerly from Northampton]
England, or his son Wi lliam Bayes, who lived with Robot o.t
Jon, in Rcdminjler-Towvjhip, Ptnnfylvanuh are J
and will fend an account of and where they a r e, or ei c J
them may be found, to SAMUEL £L AM, at Newport, Rhode '[
they will hear ofCome thing to their advantage. °f ' n
► cease of either of those farfons, (should such an event ha#e a jr'
would be efieemed a favor, directed as above.
j Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, DE /j
Lane, nearthc Ofuiego-Marht, New-York.—