[No. LXV.]
PLAN
Of the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
(A NATIONAL PAPEIV)
Publt/hed at the Seat oj the National Gov erkment.
CONTAINING,
I. EARLY and authentic Accounts of the PROCEEDINGS
ps CONGRESS—its LAWS, ACTS, and RESOLUTIONS,
communicated lb as to form an HISTORY of the TRANSACTIONS
tf the NATIONAL LEGISLATURE.
11. Impartial Sketches of the Debates of Congress.
111. ESSAYS on the great of Government ; also upon
the national and local Alights of the american citizens as
founded uponthe National or State Constitutions ; alio upon every
other Subject, which may appear luitable for newfpaperdifcuflion.
IV. A SERIES of PARAGRAPHS, calculated to catch the
" living manners as they R i se," and to point the public
attention to Obje£h that have an important reference to dome/he.
social and public happiness.
V. The Intcrefts of the United States as connettcd with their li
terary Inftitutions—religiousand moral Objefts—lmprovements in
Science, Arts, EDUCATION and HUMANITY—their foreign
Treaties, Alliances, Connexions, See.
VI. Every species of INTELLIGENCE, which mav affeftthe
commercial, agricultural, manufacturing, or political INTERESTS of
the AMERICAN NATION.
VII. ACHAINofDOMESTIC OCCURRENCES.
VIII. A SERIES of FOREIGN ARTICLES of INTELLI
GENCE.
X. The STATE of the FUNDS—Courses of Exchange—Prices
Current, &c.
CONDITIONS.
I.
VubUfhei every WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
11.
Theprice toSubfcribcrs (exclusive of postage) THREE DOLLARS
fir. Annum.
HI.
The Jirjl ft: mi-annual payment to be made in three months from, the
time of fubferibing, and future payments to be made every fx months.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Will be received in all the capital towns upon the Continent; also at No.
9, Maiden-Lane, near the Ofwego-Market, New-York.
To the PUBLI C.
AT this important the ideas that fi|l the mind, are preg
nant with Events ot the greatest magnitude—to and
complete the UNION of the States—to extend and protc£l their
COMMERCE, under equal Treaties yet to formed—to explore
and arrange the NATIONAL FUNDS—to rcilore and eflablifji
the PUBLIC CREDIT—and ALL under the aufpicesof an untri
ed System of' Government, will require the ENERGIES of the
Patnotsand Sasesof our Country—Hence the propriety of encreafng
the Mediums of Knowlege and Information.
AMERICA, from this period, begins a new Era in her nation
al exigence—"the world is all rfjore her"—The
wisdom and folly—the misery and prosperity ot the EMPIRES,
--STATES, and KINGDOMS, which have had their day upon
the great Theatre of Time, and are now nornore, suggest the most
important Mementos—These, witli the rapid series of Events, in
which out own Country has been so deeply intereftid, have
taught the enlifjhtmcd Citizens of the United States, that FREE
DOM and GOVERNMENT—LIBERTY and LAWS, arc inse
parable.
This Convi6Hon has led to the adoption of the New Constituti
on; for however, various the Sentiments, refpetting the ME
RITS of this System, all good mew are agreqd in the neceflitv
thatexifts, of an EFFICIENT FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
A paper, therefore, cftabliflicd upon NATIONAL, INDE
PENDENT, and IMPARTIAL PRINCIPLES—which ihall
take up the prcmifed Articles, upona competent plan, it is
presumed, will be highly interesting, and meet with public ap
probation and patronage.
The Editor of this Publication is determined to leave no avenue
of informaton unexplored : —He solicits the afliflance of Pqrfons
of leifurc and abilities—which, united with his own afliduity, he
flatters himfelf will render the Gazette of the United States not
unworthy general encouragement and is, with due refpcfl,
the public's humble servant, THE EDITOR.
POSTSCRIPT.
SEVEN Months have now elapsed fnce this paper *zvas ushered
into exigence—how far the spirit of the plan has been exhibited, ana
adhered to, is not Jor the Editor to fay—A generous and cand'd pub
lic has awarded its approbation, by a fubfeription which is said to bt
nore extensive than ujual on similar occu/ions. —An acknowledgement oj
the favor is therefore due from the publisher .—The expence attending an
undertaking of this kind is always great; in the prejent inflance, it ha j
not been counterbalanced by any of the customary on account oj
advertifcmer.ts —the object being an extensive circulation, the Editor con•
ceiving that their insertion won id have count era fled that part of his plan
has never admitted an v. This cons deration if it was necejfary to bt
fuggejled,would point out the importance of punfluality on the part of tin
fubferibers —it appears to have been very generally a'tended to, as thi
Payments have been unusually prompt.
It is necejjary toobferve that the number of names which have honored
the fubfcj iption, is not fufjicientto defray the expence of the publication,
fhd to afford the Editor a competent futport, on aJ'jfpofition that tie
wholejTtouldbecolfefled.—Additionalfubferiptionsare therefore jolicited;
And when it is considered, that the paper is new in its conjiruffton ; con
tains intelligence of the mofl interejling nature ; abounds with more ori
ginality than any other periodical publication ; and. viewed as a mis
celJany, if cheaper than any magazine, regifler, (3c. it can not be doubted
but that it will receive an adequate patronage'.
The Editor is determined to prosecute the publication, upon its «rigi
wlprinciples : He hopes to make it- more interejling, by the communi
cations of his ingenious corrrfpondents k : He Johcits the aid of every
friend to science, freedom and government: And fych speculations as
bear a friendly afpecl to the peace, honor and prosperity of our rising
nation, zuill be received with eratitudr by the public's humble fervavt
JOHN FEN NO.
NEW-YORK, Nov. 14, 17,89.
EXTRACT
THII tempest of the foul, like that of the elements, can endure
but for a season. Time smooths the furrows of misfortune : for
hope diveljedof a darling object, like a bird deprived of one
friendly spray. flies to another ; and looks forward to new Sour
ces ol enjovment. —Happy temperament of Human nature, that
like the yielding Jlalk, bends to the blafls of misfortune,
and again resumes its wonted station, prepared for new incidents,
to 00nip!eat the varied, chcctjucrrd fccne.—So true are the words
of in'.p'.ration, Sorrow mi y eortiitr.e for a but joy com zth in the
WEDNESDAY, November 25, 1789.
THE TABLE T No. LXV.
Among the learned, there are Jome pcrfons of art
and aadreJ'Sy that can mind their lludies wtthout nes
le fling the world."
IVTEN who devote their liVes to the pursuit
of literature are apt to contract habits of
Ipleen and petulance. The effect of steady con-
to ex 'iauft the spirits, and create an
indifference for those pleasures and aniufements,
with which the bulk of mankind are captivated.
It is to be regretted that learned men fliould fall
into such an error; because it is not only detri
mental to their own happiness, but abates the fa
tisraction and advantage, that their attainments
would otherwise afford to other people.
1 he facifnating influence of literature, unless
counteracted by a diverfified intercourse with so
ciety, almost unavoidably produces pedantry of
manners.. There is perhaps no effectual remedy
againlt this inconvenience. It will be said, that
men must either lay aside their literary pursuits,
or they mull submit to the habits that grow out
of a life of study and contemplation. This idea
however fliould not be too implicitly adopted.—
The importance of a cheerful deportment, and en
gaging manners is so great and conspicuous, that
it is worth while to examine, whether they are
not more compatible, than usually happens, with
characters who are diftinguiflied for Icience and
leflection. Ihe fault lies principally with those
who have the management of youth, at the per
iod when they commence their ftudiee. Itislup
pofed eflential, by way ofexciting emulation, that
the students fliould speak in a different dialect
from other people, and alliime a style of behavior
peculiar to themselves. This practice, in a little
time, begets a pride of character, wliicli it is diffi
cult afterwards to wear off. Those lads, who on
letiting from their lludies, enter into commer
cial or other pursuits that carrj them into a vari
ety of company, may get the better of the faults
of their education, and learn to feel and act like
other people. But those, who take a profeflion
that requires a continuance in their researches
afterTcience, may retain the pride and formality
acquired at an academy, through every subse
quent period of life. After a fewyears sedentary
employment, they lose their relish for exercise and
for scenes of mirth and pleasantry, and before
they are aware of it, fall a prey to sullen, melan
choly spirits.
It is practicable, I fliould imagine, to excite an
emulation for learning, without running into the
errors I have described. Tiiere are many inftan
cesof men who combine great knowledge in the
arts and sciences with apolite addrefi and accom
modating manners. This shews that those pro
perties are not, in the nature of things, doomed
to a separation. It furnifhes like wife a strong
presumption, that it is owing to injudicious ma
nagement that they are so often separated. The
Students at an academy or university fliould be
cautioned against affectation in their language or
behavior. Pride never affunies a more (illy or a
more useless fliape, than it discovers in the'pecu
liarities of learned men. It sometimes elevates
them above an attention to those rules of propri
ety in common affairs, that are so well calculated
to render men happy and agreeable. How com
mon a thing is it, to fee men stored with rich trea
sures of knowledge, who are totally destitute of
prudence and common sense ! This is often and
in a wreatmeafureoccafioned by falfe notions im
bibed in education. The felf-fufficient student
believes it sullies his dignity to think upon such
subjects, or follow such practices as are in vogue
with the great run of mankind. He therefore
may be more learned, but he is, in reality, less
wife, less happy, and less ufeful, than those he
affects to despise.
IN HOLLAND,
The inoft flagrant violences areftill committed
by the favourers of the Stadtholder, on the patri
i otic party. —The consequences have been mur
der, and depredations on property : And the
common order of people are so infatuated in fa
vour of the House of Orange, that the eftablilh
ment of a Defpotifm'is, an event asmuchexpedted,
as it will be easy to effecft.
IN ENGLAND,
Every thing remains tranquil. The prosperi
ty of this nation appears progrefling—.its com
merce extending—and we hope its liberality and
enlarged policy increasing.
THE TURKS,
Tt is said, in the German papers, have been de
feated in two pitched battles, with the loss of seve
ral thousands in each : But itis fufpevsled,that these
battles have exiltence only in the Vienna Gazette.
\_FubhJhed 07i IV ednefday and Saturday
New-York, November 25.
In the SYNOD of the Reformed DUTCH CHURCH
in North America.
New-Tori, Ottober 9, 1789.
"An ADDRESS no the Prefidentof the United
States of America, was prepared agreeably to tJ"<?
resolution of Synod, and read ; which being aj~
proved of, it was ordered that the Rev. Profeflot'
Livingston, the Rev. Dr. Linn; the Rev. Mr.
Kuypers, the Rev. Mr. Louw, Dirck Lr.v
f"ERTs,Efq; the Hon. Isaac Rosf. velt, Efq; the
Hon. Richard Var xck,EJ<j; Mr. Henbyßoome,
and tlie Hon. John Vanderbilt, Efq; do sign
the fame, and present it to the President in tlie
name and behalf of the Synod."
1 lie Address, which was delayed, an account
of the Prelidejit's absence, was presented 011
Thursday last, and is as follows.
To the PRESIDENT of the United States,
SIR,
THE Synod of the Reformed Dutch Church,
in North America, embrace the occasion of
their annual feflion, being the firft since your ap
pointment, to present you their fincerc congratula
tions, and to join in that great and general joy
teltified by all defcriprions of citizens on your ac
ceptance of the liigheft office in the nation.
We cannot forbear expreifingour gratitude to
God for preserving your valuable life amidst so
many dangers till this time ; —for inspiring you
with a large portion of the martial lpirit, and
forming you also for the milder and more agreea
ble arts of government and peace ; —for endow
ing you with great virtues, and calling them into
exercise by great events; —foi diftinguilhing you
with honors,and giving you remarkable prudence
and moderation ; —and for making your extraordi
nary talents the more conspicuous,_ ufeful, and
durable, by superinducing the noble ornament
of humility. Your country has * with one voice,
attested your excellence by inviting you again to
public life, and you have confirmed its judgment
by returning to frefli scenes and toils after you
had retired totliefhade from the burden and beat
of a long day.
Among the many signal interpositions of Divine
Providence, we remark the late important change
in the general government; a change neither ef
fected by accident, nor imposed by force ; but
adopted in the bosom of peace, after a free and
mature deliberation ; and in which a people wid&-
ly extended, and various in their habits, are
united beyond the most raised expectations. In
these refpecls the United States of America stand
single among all the nations of the earth. Other
revolutions may have been more diverfifiecl and
splendid, but none more honorable to human
nature, and none so likely to produce such hap
py effects. This government being now com
pletely organized, and all its departments filled,
we truss that God will give wisdom to its councils,
and justice to its adminillration ; and that we ffiali
at length realize tliofe blelfings which animated
our hopes through a difficult and ruinous war.
To our constant prayers forthe welfare of our
country, and of the whole human race, we fliali
esteem it our duty and happiness, to unite our car
neft endeavors to promote the pure and undefiled
Religion of Christ; foras this secures eternal feli
city tomenin a futureftate, so we are perfr.aded
that good Christians will always be good
and that where righteousness prevails among in
dividuals, the nation will be great and happy.
Thus while just government protects all in their
religious rights, true religion affords to govern
ment its surest support.
We implore the Lord God to be your fun and
shield. May your administration be prosperous.
May the bleflings of millions come upon you, and
your name be grateful to all posterity. Above
all, may you finifh your course with joy, be num
bered amouethe redeemed of the Lord, and enter
into everlafling reft.
New-York, October 9, 17751.
In the Name and by the Order of the Synod*
JOHN H. LIVINGSTON,
WILLIAM LINN,
GERADUS A. KUYPERS,
PETER LOUW,
DIRCK LEFFERTS,
ISAAC ROSEVELT,
RICHARD VARICK,
HENRY ROOME.
To which Address the President was
return the following Answer,
Tothe STNODof the ReformrC Dutch Churchl
in North-America.
Gentlbmen,
T RECEIVE with a grateful heart your pious and
J- affectionate address ; and with truth declare to
you that i»o circumstance of my life has affected me
more sensibly, ofr produced more pleasing emotions
than the friendly congratulations and strong afliir*pn.-cs of support wliicli I liave received from my
fellow-citizens of all descriptions, uponmy elec
tion to the Prelidency of these United States.
1 fear, Gentlemen, yoiji goodness liasled you to
form too exalted an opinion of my virtues and me
rits.—lf such talents as I pollefs have been called
into action by great events, and i liofe events have
terminated happily for our country, the glory
jhould be r.fcribed to the manifeft interpolition of
an over-ruling Providence. My military services
have been abundantly recompenced by the flatter
ing approbation of a grateful people; and if a
faithful discharge of my civil duties can ensure a
like reward, 1 shall feel inyl'elf richly compensated
for any personal facrifice 1 may have made, by
engaging again in public life.
i The citizens of the United States of America
liave given as lignal a proof of their wisdom and
virtue in framing and adopting a constitution of
government without bloodlhed or the intervention
«»f force, as they, upon a former occasion, exhib
ited to the world oftheir valor, fortitude and per
severance ; - -and it mult be a pleating circnmftance
to every friend of good order and Ibcial liappi
jief's, to find that our new government is gaining
strength and relpectability among the citizens of
this country in proportion as its operations are
known and its effects felt.
You, Gentlemen act the part of pious Christians,
and good citizens, by your prayers and exertions
to preserve that harmony and good will among
men, which mult be the basis of every political
eltablifhmentand I readily join with you, that
" while just Government protects all in their re
" ligious rights, true religion affords to govern
" incnt its lurelt support."
1 am deeply imprefled "with your good willies
for my present and future happiness ; and I be
feecli the Almighty to take you under his special
care. G. WASHINGTON.
ADDRESS of the EXECUTIVE of New-llamp
fliireto THE PRESIDENT of the United States
of AMERICA.
SIR,
AMIDST the npplaufe and gratulations of rail
lions, fuffer the Executive of New-Hamp
fnire, with grateful hearts to approach you, Sir,
and hail you-welcome to this northern State—to
a government whole metropolis was at an early
itage of the late war, by your vigilance and at
tention saved from dellrucftion ; and the whole
of which was at an after period refcucd from im
pending ruin, by that valor and prudence which
eventually wrought out the salvation ofour com
mon country, and gave birth to the American Em
pire. Deeply imprefled with the remembrance
of those important events, you will permit us to
fay, that amongst the vast multitude of your ad
mirers, there is not a people who hold your tal
ents and your virtues in higher veneration than
the inhabitants of New-Hampfliire. Webegyou,
Sir, to accept our moil: cordial thanks for the ho
nor done to this State, by your more than welcome
visit at this time. And that you will believe we
shrill not cease to unite our most fervent prayers,
•with those of our American brethren, that you
maybe continued a lafling blefling to our nation,
and long, very long, be fuffered to rule in peace,
over thole whom you have protected and defend
ed in war. In behalf of the Council,
JOHN SULLIVAN.
Portsmouth, Nov. 3, 1759.
The Prefidsnt vias pleafcd to return tin following
/Jnfjjer.
To the Houorable the EXECUTIVE of the State
of New-llamplhire.
ALLOW me, Gentlemen, to allure you, that
grateful as my heart is for the affectionate
regards, which my fellow-citizens have manifeA
ed towards me, it has at no time been morefenfi
bly imprefled with a conl'cioufnefs oftheir good
ness, than 011 the ptefent occasion.
1 am truly thankful for your expressions of at
tachment to my peiTon, and approbation of my
conduct—and 1 reciprocate your good wilhes with
unfeigned affection.
In exercising the vigilance and attention, with
which you are pleased to compliment :ny military
command, I did no more than what inclination
prompted, and duty enjoined. In discharging
the duties of my civil appointment, I canfincere
]y promise, that the love of my country will be
the ruling influence of my conduct.
The furcefs which has hitherto attended our
united efforts, we owe to the gracious interposi
tion of Heaven—and to that interpolition let us,
gratefully, ascribe the prail'e of victory, and the
Jblefliiigs of peace.
May the State, in wliofe councils you worthily
prelide, be happy under your administration—
and may you, Gentlemen, partake of the bleliings
which your endeavors are intended to bellow.
G. WASHINGTON.
AN ADDRESS to THE PUBLIC,
Frm:i the Pennsylvania Society jor promoting the /4-
bo lit ion of Slavery, and the Relief of free Negroes,
unlawfully held in bondage.
IT is with peculiar iarisfatftion we a flare the
friends of humanity, that in profeeming the
Jefign of o ir aflbciation, our endeavours have
proved fuccefsful, far beyond our moil sanguine
expectations.
Encouraged by this success, and by the daily
progress of that luminous and benign spirit of li
berty* which is diffuiing itfelf throughout the
world ; and humbly hoping for tlie continuance of
the divine blelling on our labours, we have ven
tured to make an important addition to our origi
nal plan, and do therefore, earneflly solicit the
support and assistance, of all who can feel the ten
der emotions of sympathy and compaifion, orre
lilh the ex.ilted pleasure of beneficence.
Slavery is fucli an attrocious debasement of hu
man nature, that its very extirpation, if not per
formed with solicitous care, may sometimes open
a fonrce of serious evils.
The unhappy man who has long been treated
as a brute animal, too frequently links beneath the
common Itandard of the human species. Thegal
ling chains that bind his body, do also fetter his
intellectual faculties, and impair the social affec
tions of the heart. Accuftoined to move like a
mere machine, by the will of a mailer, reflection
is suspended ; he has not the power of choice;
and reason and corifcience have but but little in
fluence over his condutfl ; because lieischiefly go
verned by the palfion of fear. He is poor and
friendlefs—perhaps worn out by extreme labor,
age and disease.
Under l'uch circumstances, freedom may often
prove a misfortune to himl'elf, and prejudicial to
society.
Attention to emancipated black people, it is
therefore to be hoped, will become a branch of
our national police ; but as far as we contribute
to promote this emancipation, so far that attention
is evidently a serious duty, incumbent on us, and
which we mean to to difcliarge to the belt of our
judgment and abilities.
To inltrudi; to advise ; to qualify those who
have been reltorcd to freedom, for the exercise
and enjoyment of civil liberty. To promote in
them habits of indullry ; to furnifli them with em
ployments suited to their age, sex, talents, and o
ther circumltances ; and to procure their chil
dren an education calculated for their future situ
ation in life. Tliefe are thegreat outlinesof the
annexed plan, which we have adopted, and which
we conceive will eflentially promote the public
good, and the happiness of these our hitherto too
much neglected fellow creatures.
A plan so extensive cannot be carried into exe
cution, without considerable pecuniary resources,
beyond the present ordinary funds of the society.
We hope much from the generosity of enlightened
and benevolent freemen, and will gratefully re
ceive any donations or fublcriptions for this pur
pose, which may be made to our treasurer, James
Starr, or to "James Pembertoit, chairman of our
committee of correspondence.
Signed by order oftlie Society.
13. FRANKLIN, Prcfident.
Philadelphia, qth of November, 1789.
(The Plan in our next.)
NEW-YORK, Nov. 2,5.
Sunday eveninglaft an i ved the ship Montgome
ry, Capt. Bunyav, from London, after a very
short paflage; in which came paflengers, Col.
Trumbull, William Hill house, Esq. Mr.
Deas, of S.Carolina, and Mr. Hyde and lady.
By the Montgomery, we have accounts of the tranf
aCiions in trance, of a later date than -what has come
to hand by any former conveyance, These accounts
are contradittory to each ether ; but, in general the
f ollowing fafls may be relied on :
ON the arrival of the regiment de Flandtrs at
Ver failles, an entertainment as usual was giv
en by the officers of the Guade de corps &c. to the
officers of the regiment de Flanders. After this fef
tivity had continued some time, on the appearance
of the King and Queen from the gallery, there was
a cry of Vive le P oy et Vive le Reine : 011 which the
officers, and those of the Swiss guards (who were
likewise present, as if by a pre-concertcd plan)
pulled the national cockades from their hats,
treading them under their feet; and having black
cockades at hand, they were immediately distri
buted, and supplied the place of the red and blue.
An account of this soon reached Paris, and occa
sioned a general discontent. The people Aflem
bled for two or three days, without any decisive
measures, till the fourth day after the tranfaftion
at Versailles, when a large body without any head,
fat out from Paris for that place, and soon after
the Marquis de la Fayette marched at the head of
about twenty tlioufand of the Paris militia. On
their arrival at Versailles, they found three regi
ments drawn up to receive them ; but 011 bein«
ordered to fire, the regiment de Flanders clubbed
their firelocks, and went over to the Marquis the
Swiss regiment refufed to fire, and stood motionless
—-and the guarde de corps were soon dispersed,
flying for lhelter to whatever covert they could
find. The Marquis immediately waited on the
King and Queen, informing them that to fatisfv
the people, and to avoid vvorfe consequences, they
mult remove to Paris. They were accordingly on
their way ; but so great was the croud, that they
were eight hours in going from Versailles t 0 Paris.
The trail Aid lor.s at Ve: I'iiiles apnea, c j t0 " -
been intended as a prelude to fon.t- more saC
efforts on the part of royalty ; as n was iuppofoi
and we apprehend juflly fuppol'ed, that the- e J'
liients then under ihc eye of the King, wuuld»„"
have ventured on Inch a measure, to insult the
liatioiKii cockade, without the afliirancc of fom
powerful fnpport, and even without the confeuto'
their fuperiui s. The equivocation of the Kin? - 0
the application of the National A(teiiibly, rermelt
ing his allent to their articles or plan of a coniti'
tution, firlt gave rife to l'uch a fnrinilc, which fab
sequent tads have corroborated.
the National Aflembly have refolvedtore
move likewise to Paris : where it is hoped their
deliberations will be conducted with more unani
niity and dispatch ; for we are sorry to fay t W
there appears in many of the members of that bo
dy a disposition to delay, protrad and embarrafi
every ineafure at a time when the public exi<r ence
requires a contrary con dud; from every friend
to his country. The clergy in particular come un
der the imputation of duplicity ; and it is tho't
there must be a few more examples of severity
before the abettors of despotism will be induced
to relinquish the share of public plunder which
has fallen to them.—There is a report that there
has since been a proscription of anumberof these
prevaricating gentry ; but the truth of this is
not fufficiently ascertained.
It is thought that the removal of the King to
Paris may be attended with beneficial effects ; as
it may remove from him evil councilors, and (hew
the folly of opposing the general wish, and that
spirit which aliens the long neglected rights of
human nature, against the encroaclunentsofpre
rogative.
Further advices by Capt. Bunyan slate,—That
the Turks and Swedes have concluded a Conven
tion in which they reciprocally agree net tolif
ten separately to proportions of peace with their
common enemy—That the Prince de Coboui'g has
gained another Vidory over the Turks in con
jundion with the Ruffian General—having on the
22 Sept. defeated the Ottoman Army of 90000
men, under the command of the Grand Vizier—
4000 being left dead on the field—the lols of the
vidors being only 200 killed and wounded!!—
That another vidory had been obtained by frince
Repnin a Ruffian General—and that the outworks
and suburbs of Belgrade had been carried—That
the Ruffian fleet has defeated the Swediili and ta
ken several ships of the line from them—That the
Austrian Netherlands intend to throw themselves
in to the Arms of France, as soon as the commo
tions of that kingdom are fettled—That the pet
ty Princes of Germany are taking measures to
prevent revolutions in their territories—Thatthe
Prince of Hefle Darmstadt has fled out of his do
minions, and a price is set upon his head—That
the Prince Max, brother to the Duke DeuxPents
has been killed by one of his fubjeds—That a tu
mult has lately happened at Lif'oon, but was soon
appeazed without bloodshed—That therehasbcen
an infurredion in Corsica—but a conipleat revo
lution is noteffeded—That great numbers of re
fugees from France had arrived in Spain—That
the Spanish Gazettes are prohibited from giving
any accounts of French Affairs, &c. &c.
PARIS, OCt. 8.
This day their Most Christian Majesties recei
ved the foreign Ministers at the Thuilleries, ns
did Monsieur and Madame atkhe palace cfLux
embourg.
The National Aflembly still fits at VersailleS,
till room is prepared for their reception at the
Louvre. On the jth the King gave his fanftion
to thofa articles of the Constitution, and Droit?
de I'hoinine, which had been presented to his
Majeftyby the aflembly.
Oct. 12. The King has appointed the Marquis
de la Fayette, Commander in Chief of all the
troops within a circle of fifteen leagues of the
capital. Orders are given for using the utinolt
severity against the distributors of seditious pa
pers. The Heralds have proclaimed publiclyiu
Paris a prohibition against mobs, and have au
thorised the military to disperse them.
LONDON, Oct. J7.
In the affray at Versailles, the King's body
guards behaved very gallantly. About Joof the
Parisian troops and mob were killed, and thirty
of the King's guards were cut to pieces. Eighty
were carried prisoners to Paris, the reft fa vei
themselves by flight.
This regiment is different from any other, be
ing composed, both privates as well as officers, or
persons of the second order of the nobility 11
France. The heads of those who were (lainwere
carried in triumph to Paris, andfliown about t ie
streets 011 tent poles.
On Wednesday last all the diftrids ofParis
met early in the morning, and orders were giy en
to surround all the avenues of the Thuilleries,
which had been only defended the preceding
night by a common guard. A thoiifand
were immediately ordered on that duty, an
the gates of the palace are further fecurea y
train of cannon to|preventany furprlzeore cap
Wednesday being Court day, their
received the. foreign Ministers in the pa' 3C "
King looked uncommonly dejeded, the (.J>was in tears tlie wliole time, aiut only talked a
little to the Imperial Ambaflador. The <Vht
was uncommonly gloomy, and the court broice up
after a short time.
In the evening the dittrkls of Paris, pafled a
refolucion, that the regimen, of the King's body
guard should be immediately broken, and never
more revived—and that in future, his Majesty
should be guarded by citizens instead of soldiers.
During these proceedings at Paris, the Nation
al Aflembly at Verfaiiles did not transact much
business. On Wednesday evening, however, they
came to two resolutions, and it was fuppoied that
■would be the laltday of their fitting there.
The purport of these resolutions were, —That
the National Aflembly should adjourn to Paris,
and, That its meeting should ever be inseparable
from the King's place of residence.
One bad consequence produced by the differ
ent revolutions that have taken place of late is,
that a general mistrust pervades the whole capi
tal.
For the lad 24 hours theKinghas not eaten an
ounce of food, and great apprehensions are enter
tained that his health is in great danger, to fay
110 more.
The ftlloTiiing is the Letter which caused thefirfl alarm
in the National dumbly.
" Gent I.imen,
11 LAWS newly constituted can only be properly fudged of,
■when taken :n their general mass ; —in such great and important
obje&s, the whole is joined by one common link.
" Nevertheless, I feel it extremely natural, that in a moment
•when we invite the Nation to come to the succour of the State,
' bvafignal a£l of confidence and patriotism, we should afTuie it
of its neceflity and propriety. Therefore, in the hope that the
firfl articles of the Constitution which you have presented to me,
united with the continuation of your labors, will fulfill the ex
pectation of my people, and secure the happiness and prosperity
of my kingdom, I acquiesce in these Articles according to your
desire, but on this pofitivc condition, from which I never will de
part, That the general result of your deliberations fliall leave the
entire effeil of the Executive Power in the hands of the Monarch.
" A general view of my observations shall be lard before
' vou ; by which you will be nwde acquainted, that, in the present
order of things, lean neither with efficacy p rote £1 the recovery
of legal impositions, the frcecirculation of money and provisions,
nor the individual fafety of my citizens. I will nevertheless ful
fil the eflential duties of Royalty; the welfare»of my fubjecis,
the public tranquility, and the preservation of good order among
foeiety, are dependant on it. It is my wish thefet'ore, that we
make it a common cause to remove those oblUcles which may ob
ftruft so deferable and lalutary an end*
" It remains for me to acquaint you with franknefs, that if I
give my acquiescence to the various articles of the Constitution
which you have laid before me, it is not that they arc according
to my ideas, a model of pcrfe&ion ; but that I consider it praile
■worthy in me not to delay paying attention to the present wifn
es of the deputies of the nation, and the alarming circumliances
which so strongly invite us to reflore the public tranquility and
confidence among the people.
t( I do now explain myfelf on your declaration of the rights
of man and citizci s. It contains very excellent maxims pio
pc r to guide your deliberations ; but principles which are liable
to different applications, and even conllru£tions cannot be justly
appreciated ; nor is it necellarv they thould be, until the no
ment when their true sense is fixed by those laws to which they
arc to serve as a basis. (Signed) L O U 1 S."
THE OBSERVER. No. VI.
[The OUfervations contained in the following come home to the
feelings of every citizen of the United Siatts : Every patriotic
Editor of a public Paper, will doubtlefsenrich his Mile, llany by
their republication.]
REMARKS ON TAXATION.
THE greatelt effects are produced by the most
liinple causes. A great mind may be diftin
guifbed by the simplicity of its conceptions, and
the art of managing momentous concerns, by thole
plain means which others have overlooked. If we
examine the hiltory of mankind we shall perceive
that the moll: eminent characters in civil and reli
gious policy, obtained their superiority of reputa
tion by discerning the opportune moment to I weep
away complicated fyftems,the work of thole who
had been laboi ioully and minutely wife ; andfub
ftituting in their place some plain scheme of truth
and practice, which the people can understand and
fee to be fortheir advantage. In every enlighten
ed country, aniajority of the people are willing to
do right, or what is the fame thing, that which is
for their own interest. Intricacy in the measures
of government, is a common courle of losing the
public confidence ; and this ought to be the cafe,
as it exposes the fubjecft to tyranny and fraud, with
out any means of detection. The manner of rai
ling, collecting and applying a national revenue,
has generally been esteemed ttie most difficult part
of government,and doubtless more uneasiness hath
arisen from this than every other source. This dif
ficulty hath generally been imputed to the avarice
of the human heart. It hath been laid that the
people will neceflarily be displeased, with every
regulation which requires any contribution of
their property to the public ; but I cannot yet be
lieve that so much both of the fool and knave is
eflential to human nature. Honesty is known to
be the best policy, and the ruling half of an in
formed people, letting aflde moral obligation, will
on this account prefer honesty. Let them be
convinced the State is honest in its government,
apd with the fame honesty and cheerfulnefs, they
will contribute their quota of tlve general ex
pence ; but the people can never have this evi
dence of national integrity with luch acontulion
of schemes as have filled the United States.
More than four fifths of the citizens through
the Union are willing to fatisly every demand
of The late revolution of government
is a proof that they have magnanimity faffici
ent for every event, But in this business a finan
cier who means to lead them, must have a simple
and plain system both of railing and applying.the
revenue. He must have a permanent system—one
that will not need new modelling every session of
the supreme Legi.-hture. It is allowed on all
hands that taxation hath caused uneasiness in most
of the States, buc it is not from any want ofhonef
ty in the people. Some reasons of this uneasiness
were mentioned iii my last number, and there are
others which deserve notice. When the-funis to
be paid in the progress of the war became consider
able, the State Legislatures through almost the
whole union, with the best intentions and a real
design to favor the people, set theinfelves to new
modelling those modes of taxation, to which they
had been refpeitively used—addition upon addi
tion was made to the tax laws—every year pro
duced something new,which, the next, was proba
bly repealed, for the fake ot'fome alteration sup
posed to be better. This fluctuating state of the tax
laws became a temptation for particular persons
to favor themselves ; and jealousy has been gra
dually introduced between respectable clalfes of
citizens, whose property is in difficult situations.
The people at large are unable to comprehend the
design of such frequent alterations—the whole ap
pears to them like confufion, and a game played
between the more knowing ones, to promote their
own purposes. A frequent violation of funds or
appropriations to particular uses, in the applicati
on of revenue hath been another ground of unea
siness. The State must be saved at all events, and
there may be exigencies of danger which will war
rant such violations ; but nothing of this kind can
amount to a jollification, in one quarter ofthein
ftances which have happened. A worthy citizen
always wishes for an opportunity to glory in the
good faith of his country—national justice is his
pride—the want of it wounds his feelings and finks
his ambition—he becomes! weary of paying, when
t he whole system is a chaos, and the application so
variable that none are fatisfied, and the public do
not obtain the reputation even of trj ing to bejnft.
Another source of uneasiness, and this 1 think with
great reason, is, that part of the public creditors
have been wholly negleifted, and among those who
have received some compensation it hath been on
various principles and in different proportions,
though all had a right to the fame justice. One
half of the citizens without receiving any interest
on their own securities, have been taxed to pay the
intereftdue to their neighbors,whofe notes might
run in another name, but had no preference in e
quity. They submitted to the neceility of the times
with a fortitude almost unparalleled, and it must
Aot be any longer expected from them. There is
but one remedy for this evil—let United States
afl'ume the whole public debt—it was incurred for
them and in equity they ought to fee it funded.
The principal ought not to be paid if there was
public ability, but the interest fhouldbe annual
ly fatisfied.
This debt will he an advantage to the nation,
and to individuals, to government, commerce, a
griculture and manufactures. I can forefee it will
be enquired how shall this be done, will not so vast
an amount fink the people ? By many tliefe en
quiries are honestly made, and by some merely to
terrify. Methodize and Amplify your whole trea
sury department, and the burden on the peofle
will not be on«* half of what they have annually
borne for fifteen years. The United States have
now an import, the savings of this, beyond the
support of civil government will amount to a
large sum—but other ways and means will doubt
lels be requiiite. In a number of the States there
is now an excise, which ought to be baniilied from
all, or extended through the whole—and perhaps
the latter will be found wecefiary. An excise is
a tax attended with some difficulty in collettion,
and if not thoroughly gathered proves a dis
couragement to the lionelt, who wish to observe
all the regulations of government : but notwitli
standing this difficulty, there are some reasons
both of policy and equity, which I shall mention
in some future number, that may render this
mode of revenue expedient. The tax paid by the
country planters and farmers, ought to be of one
kind, and on the most simple principles, such that
every man may know by his own calculation,
what will be demanded from him. Among the
various expedients of taxation, devised by human
ingenuity, a land tax of a certain sum pr. acre on
improved lands, is the most limple and perma
nent. It admits no altercation concerning the
sum to be paid—being placed on stable and im
moveable property, the difhonett cannot by any
fraud escape payment —it favors the poor who
liSve little pi operty, while a poll tax crushes them
—It conies 011 such as have solid wealth—The
quantity of improved land bears a nearer propor
tion to the comparative wealth of individuals in
the State, than any other articles which can be re
duced to taxation. Another thing which favors
this mode of taxation in the United States is, that
it may be carried into effect with ease, and in an
intelligible manner, through every part of the
empire. There will be no need of intermedling
with the different policies of revenue inthefever
al States,which cannot be reduced into a harino-
iiious system. Avery finali land tax i*i addnioii
to the orlier branches ol*revenue, would be fuftt'
cient, and could in be introduced, by the plain
liefs and limplicity of its operation, would givd
general content.
AJR. FI'.KNO, ——————
If you think the follow ng rejlrtivrs are adiftedto the enfurnr 4 Jv.lt : c
jrjiivuiy Ut ihem appear in tie Cizet •oj the U.vted Stats. ' ('.
REFLECTIONS FOR THANKSGIVING DAY.
'* TXTIItN wc Curve) the itupend us expanie, Co (' iinp'uoul-
VV ly furnilbed with a profufion of planets, and luinina
ries revolving in appointed courses, ana diverfifying the fcufn::; ;
•we fee a work that is altogether woiihy of a God. Again when
we descend to the earth, and look abroad ilpon the it.finite pro
ductions of nature, upon provili ns Co amply aniweiing to the
wants of every living being, and on objects, and oiga'ns it? finely
fitted to each other—we trace a com.plu a ted ir.iw.e ot'wifdbm,boun
ty and benevolence."—Thus the natural world furnifhes t l i • nioft
glorious iubjefcts to excite our wonder, adoration, piaiie and
thanksgiving.
When wc contemplate the diCpofltions of Divine Providence,
as diCplaved 111 the various events that diverfifv the Ccene of hu
man exigence—tberiCe and Fa 11 ofempires, states, and kiiigdoms-r
---the uniform of virtue and public honor to the fu mm it
of earthly felicity and glory—aud 011 the revi rCe, the certain
termination of vice, and contempt for ihe Cacred principles of
public justice, in general and irretrievable ruin and misery—how
great are our obligations oC gratitude and thanksgiving to God
of Providence who furnifhcs us with such powerful incrtemeirs
" to do jujlly, to love mercy, and walk hiMbly, as the surest means of
lengthning out the public tranquility.
But the moral world furnifhcs the refining mind with the
most copious fubjefts of delightful fcontemplation ! How are the
glooms of superstition difftpated before the refplendeut rays of
enlightened reaCon and divine revelation ! Cool rafted with the
ages of pagan da*knefs, the prcfent period of illumination, places
the human mind in a fituatidn that affords a pioTpcll of the most
fublimr attainments : And as knowledge pours its treasures into
the Coul, the social attedtiont find a rich Coil in which to luxuriate.
Humanity #nd charity* acquire a prtdontinant influence, while the
malevolent paflions are extinguifbed in the human brealt. May
we not antici pate the time, when from entertaining just, aud
liberal ideas of the Deity* mankind fball learn to think more
favorably of each other ; and the common defcendents of the ori
ginal parent —recognizing the principles of conCanguiuity and
mutual dependence, fball be knit together aa members of one
great family—fay, can gratitude exceed, or praiCc and thanksgiv
ing be too ardent for Cnch favors ? In the United States of Ame
rica the human mind will have fair play ; Pricfl craft, King craft,
and State craft, with every Cpecies of imposition on the under
standing, are ridiculed and dcCpiCed. While reaCon and true re
ligion point out our duty and happinefc, in the plain language of
common Cense.
Our religious and civil inftifutions arethe result of enquiry and
experience; and unshackled with the rusty fetters of antique preju
dice, wereferveto ourfelvesthe liberty oi amending them when
ever convenience dictates. In contemplating this our fituatiou
every real friend to human happiness and the United States, will
feel his bofain expand with gratitude to that Being to whose
providence we are specially indebted for every private, social, and
public bleflmg—How suitable, how wife, how indifpenfible theu
the duty of Thanksci v i ng.
Fully imprcired with a sense of our obligations to the Sovereign
Arbiter of the Fate of nations, our Civil Fathers have called
the people of this confederated Republic, to unite with. One heart,
and one voice, in Thanksgiving and Piaifc, to " that great and glo
rious Being, who is the benrjicent Author of all the good that was, that
is, or that will be : for his kind care and protection of this people previ
oious to their becoming a nation \ for the Jigna! and manifold mercies
and the favorable interpofi t ions oj his providence in the course and con
c I upon oj the late war ; for the great degree of union, tranquility and
plenty which we have face enjoyed ; for the peaceable and rational tnan
ner in which we have been enabled to ejlablijh conjlitutions oj government
for our ffety and hup pi Heft; and particularly the national
ons now lately instituted; for the civil and religious liber
ty with which we are bleljed, and the means we have of acquiring ufefut
know lege ; and for all the great and various favors which he hath beat
pleased to confer itpon us"—A duty so rational, and Co conc>acivc to
public felicity, that a wife Hcdthen hath said, " The only founda
tion for national prosperity are, Piety towards the Gods,
and Justice and Char, it yto Man ki nd." CI VIS.
NEW-YORK, NOVEMBER 25.
We are informed that liis Excellency Thomas
Jefferfon, Efq; and family, embarked at Cowes
011 board the brig Clermont, belonging to Meflrs.
Ilitfon and Bayard, of this city, and failed for
Norfolk in company with the Montgomery, Capt.
Bunyan.
There will be Collections raised for theP.elief
of the Poor in the three firft Presbyterian Chnrches
in this city, on the enfaing Thanksgiving Morn
ing—a proper mode of tellifying our gratitude
to God for the signal mercies we are that day t»
commemorate.
\Vhen Boreas whistles from the Nortfi,
And fends liis icy morsels forth,
Turn not the wretched irom your door,
Hut iced, andcloath, and warm tiie poor.
For they to life's belt purptjfe live,
Who know how blefTVd 'tis to give;
" Thus happicll he whofeblifstul light,"
Purfui sby Ch a* ity's fair light,
A glorious hope beyond the (ty,
IVhere tfjrs arc tuip dJrcm evert eye.
The Creditors ot the State Governments appear
to be placed in a very ineligible situation incon
sequence of the appropriation of the Impost to the
purpoles of the Union—for it is very evident that
if the Excifeand Impost united, v»ere 'not more
than adequate to difchargingtlie interest of State
securities—the funds now left to the individual
governments,muft fall greatly fhortofthat objetft.
The debts of the refpecftive States ought there
fore to be placed upon a continental establish
ment—and as there does not appear to be any o
ther feazible plan of doing justice to this class
of creditors, as meritorious as any in the li
nked States, it must be pleasing to every honest
citizen to findthattlic sentiment is ve
ry general in various parts of the Union.
ihould the creditors of tliefeparate States, be
left to the mercy of local systems, and financier
ing committees of State Legislatures, with only
the excif'e to depend upon, u is pretty evident,
that while Continental Securities are rapidly ap
preciating, those of the Stares will as rapidly
verge towards annihilation.MR. ADAMS'S LETTERS.
LETTER XIIIT
Amsterdam, Oct. 26, 17S0.
S 1 Ry
THE thirteenth enquiry is, " Of what resour
ces might America hereafter ft ill make use of?"
There are many resources, yet untried, which
Would certainly be explored, if America fliould
be driven to the neceflity of them.
1. Luxury prevails in that young country, not
withstanding all the confident aflertions of the
Englilh, concerning their diltrefs, to a degree,
that retrenching this alone would enable them to
carry 011 the war. There are expences in wheel
carriages, horses, equipage, furniture, dress, and
the table, which might be spared, and would a
mount to enough to carry 011 the war.
2. The Americans might, and, rather than the
English ihould prevail against them, they would
be brought to impose duties upon articles of lux
ury and convenience, and even of neceflity, as
has been done by all the natious in Europe, i am
not able at present, and upon memory, to enter
tain you with accurate calculations: but in gen.
eral it may be said, with certainty, that if as
heavy duties were laid upon articles of consump
tion and importation as are laid in England, or
even in Holland, it would produce a revenue fuf
ficient to carry 011 this war, without borrowing
at all. I hope, however, they will never come to
this: lam clear they need not. Such fyflemat
ical and established revenues are dangerous to li
berty ; which is fafe, while the revenue depends
upon annual grants ot the people, because this se
cures public economy.
3. If there fliould be hereafter any accelfion
to the population of America, by migrations from
Europe, this will be a frefli resource; because,
in that country of agriculture, the ability toraife
a revenue will bear aconftant proportion to the
numbers of people,
4. There are immense traifts of uncultivated
lands. Tliefe lands are all claimed by particular
States : But if these States fliould cede these claims
to the Congress, which they would do in cafe of
neceflity, the Congress might fell these lands,
and they would become a great resource : No man
can fay how great, or how lasting.
5. There is a great deal of plate in America ;
and if flie were driven to extremities, the ladies,
I afliire you, have patriotism enough to give up
their plate to the public, rather than lose their li
berties, or run any great hazard of it.
6 There is another resource flill. The war
may be carried 011 by means of a fluctuating me
dium of paper money. The war has been carried
on in tlijs manner hitherto : and I firmly believe,
if the people could not find a better way, they
would agree to call in all the paper, and let it lie
as a demand upon the public, to be hereafter e
tjuitably paid, according to its fluctuating value,
in silver, and emit new bills, to depreciate, and
carry on the war in the fame way. This, however,
Wjeyld occasion many perplexities, and much un-
Xappinefs ; It would do injnftice to many indivi
duals, and;will,and ought to be avoided,if possible.
7. A loan from Europe, however, wonld be
the best resource, as it would neceflarily extend
our trade, and relieve the people from too great
a present burden. Very heavy taxes are hurtful,
because they leflen the increase of population, by
making the means of fubfiltence more difficult.
S. There are resources of agriculture, manu
factures, and labor, that would produce much if
explored and attempted.
9. The resources of trade and privateering
ought to be mentioned again. The real caufeof
our doing so little hitherto is this.-
in 1 774, agreed upon anon-exportation, to begin
in 1775. This induced the merchants, in every
part of America, to fend their ships and Tailors to
England from whence the molt of them neverre
txirned. The consequence of which was, that the
Americans have been dillrefled for want of ships
andfeamen ever since. But the number of both
has increased every year, in spite of all that the
English have taken and destroyed. The vast num
ber of ships and seamen taken this year, will re
pair thole 10111-s ; and no man can fay to what ex
tent trade and piivateering will be carried the
<iext and succeeding years.
I have the honor to be, &c.
MR. CALKOEN.
_ LIBERTT OF THE PRESS.
IT is said, " There are crimes not cognizable in
Courts of Jullice. Are not these fair game ?"
Ifthey are crimes, let laws bemadetopunfhthem.
If they do not merit this name, and are only foi
bles, I fiill deny the right to attack an individual
on account of them. Foibles which do not amount
to crimes are the proper objeifts of Satire and the
Drama, But let us " I'pare the person andexpofe
the vice." Molt fatirills have fallen into the er
ror of attacking the agent and not the ad:. This
entirely frui'n atcs the end of satire. It Ihould be
general, not local. What applies to one only can
extend its effects to him alone. But when a vice
or folly is depicted in proper colors, the satire
will apply equally to all perf'ons who are guilty
of it, and its effects be perpetual.
CONGRESS of the UNITED STATES.
Begun and held at the City of Ncio-York, on Wednesday the Fourth
of March % One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Nine.
An ACT making Appropriations for the Ser
vice of the present Year.
BE it enabled by the Senate and Hotife of Repre
sentatives of the United States of America itt
Congress affsmbled, That there be appropriated for
the service of the present year, to be paid out of
the monies which arise from the requisitions here
tofore made upon the several States, or from the
duties on import and tonnage, the following funis,
viz. afum not exceeding two hundred and sixteen
thousand dollars for defraying the expences of
the civil lilt, under the late and present govern
ment ; a sum not exceeding one hundred and thir
ty-seven thousand dollars for defraying the ex
pences of the department of war; a sum not ex
ceeding one hundred and ninety thousand dollars
for discharging warrants ifl'ued by the late board
of treasury, and remaining unfatisfied ; and a sum
not exceeding ninety-fix thousand dollars for pay
ing the pensions to invalids.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Houje of Reprejentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President oj the United States,
and President oj the Senate.
Approved, September tue 29th, 1789.
GEORGE WASH IN GT ON, ' Pre f dent of the United States.
An ACT providing for the Payment of the In
valid Pensioners of the United States.
|J it enaded by the Senate and Hottfe of Represen
tatives of the United States as America in Con
gress <i{J~embted, That the military pensions which
have been granted and paid by the States relpec
tively, in pursuance of the adis of the United
States in Congress aflembled, to the invalids who
were wounded and disabled during the late war,
ilia] 1 be continued and paid by the United States,
from the fourth day of March laft,for the space of
one year, under fucli regulations as the President
of the United States may diredt.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House oj Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and President oj tht Senate.
APPROVED, SEPTEMBER JHE 2Gth, 1789.
(rhQR(,E WASHINGTON, l'refident of the United States.
I'roni the Virginia Independent Chronicle.
ELEGY.
On l/itDccihofCeh John Darbey, of Northampton county,Virginia _
'tis a glorious thought ! The worthy mind,
X Matured by wildom au.d from\ice refin'd,
In vinous feencs of social life approv'd,
Of man thOover, and by God bclov'd,
Mud, sure, diverted of its kindred clay,
Soar to the regions of empyreal day.
Such Darbey ihone ; to deck, whose mournful heasfe,
1 he MuTe lamenting pays her grateful verfc;
The Muse, long wont to love, as to revere
The Judge impartial and the friend sincere !
How has Iheolt with fixt attention hung
On the great truths that grae'd his flowing tongue !
T ruths that he joy'd with candid warmth to draw
Fair from the moral, or the christian law !
How oft beheld hiin glad the friendly scene,
Without all cheerful, and all calm within ;
And, far from mad ambmon'snoify ftrife,
Fix the pure bleflings of domestic life ;
How oft, in him, with plcafing wonder view'd
A foul, where hwlefs paflions funk fubdu'd ;
Where virtue Hill her rightful rules maimain'd,
While gen'rous zeal, by bigotry uoftain'd,
And freedom, that protects with watchful care
Man's facrcd rights, securely triumph'd there.
Sprung trom a race, thatcrown'd with honest praise,
By virtuous deedsadorn'd a length of days,
For him we hop d kind temp'rance long would wield
Drfenfive arms, and o'er hini fprcad her Ihield.
Fallacious hopes ! —ah ! fee .' the diredifeafe
Comes borne insidious 011 the tainted breeze.
Soon from her feat imperial reason thrown,
No more the friend, oifon.or contort, known)
The (ev'rous pest viflorious winds its way.
Till spent, o'erpow'r'd by its rcliftlefs sway,
Frail nature yields.—O ! parent, husband, friend !
Mull then th'endearing names forever end ?
Heav'ncalls him hcnce—at that all pow'rfulcall
Tho' sighs will spring, and tears unbidden fall,
Yet let us upward look ('twill give relief,
' Twill check the torrent of impetuous grief)
With mental eyes his radient course explore,
And view him landed 011 th' etherial (hore ;
Where envy's ftoi ms and factions ne'er molc'll
The native pcacethat calms the patriot's breast ;
Where the great Judge determines ev'ry cause,'
And bleflcs as he gives the jull applause.
Npw-York, November. 2<. I*7Bo
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sept. 19, 1789.
GENERAL ACCOUNT of ANTICIPATIONS
No. 11.
A PARTICULAR STATEMENT of WAR
RANTS drawn by the late Board of Trea
sury on Michael Hill eg as, late Treasurer of
the United States, which remain unpaid, and
were comprised in the Estimate inade by the Se
cretary of theTreafury of the United States,and
by him reported to the Houf« of Representatives
of the United States.
P"tc of | a In Zxihofe favor. II
Warmth. |] •|| si tfiartmnt, and for what drawn, tf Dot - 9°^-
Indian Affairs.
1787. Richard Butler, Agent for Indi-
Aug. is. an Affairs, for Salary one quarter,
ending 30th Jiine last, G<;o
Nov. 32. 806. Ditto, ditto, ditto, ending loth
September lad, b J
Deo. gi. 625. John Woods, in full lor his ser
vices and cxpenfet attending sundry
Chiefs of the Choftaw Nation on a
Visit to Congress, per Ast of the ißtJi
of IaB » is oo
CiiTficd forwalS, lcp
Brought forward, 9A
1788. 1018. Comfort Safias, Attorney toWil-
Nov. 7- ''am Winn,Simerintendant of Indian
Affairs for rhe Southern Department
being for said Winn's falarv from
the lft of April 10 the 29th of Au
gust, 1788,
1789. si,sß. Arthur Sr. Clair, Esq. Governor of 9
May 13. the Western Territory, to be by him
applied, agreeably to an Ast of Con.
grefs of the 2 7 th of October, 178-, , B<i
1160. Ditto, being part of the Sum of '
20,000 Dollars, appropriated for
the extinguishing of Indian claims
per Ast of the 2 d of July, j-88, ' ,. 000
1161. Ditto, fame purpose, 2
2 J- "63- Richard Butler, Superintendantof ' '
Indian Affairs, one Quarter's Salary
ending the 14th of October, 1788, 4 ,J ~
16. 1164. Ditto, for sundry Ejipenfcj in the
Indian Department, from the 12th
of October. 1786, to the 14th of
October, 1788,
June 17. *172. Arthur St. Clair, Governor* of the
Western Teritory.in part of the sum
ot 20,000 Dollars, appropriated for
extrnguifhing Indian Claims, per
Aftof the 2d July, 1783, m
Ditto, fame pnrpofe, . ..
J u 'y , 7- »>9»- .> lm Cochran, Attorney to James '
Livingfton, Deputy Supenntendant
ol Indian Affairs, Northern Depart
ment, his Salary from the lft of
July, 1788, to 30th of June, 1789, jeo
PENSIONS ANNUITIES and GRANTS?' "
1787. 6og. Samuel Hodgdon, Attorney to
Jan. 29. Doctor John Warren, for the Edu
cation of Joseph Warren, eldest foa
of the late Major-General Warren,
deceased, from the lft of January,
to the 30th of June, 1786, per Ast,
Bth of April, 1777, t 4 g (a
14. 610. Ditto, Attorney to ditto, for the
support and Education of the three
youngest children of said General
Warren, deceased, from the id of
July, to the 31ft of Dec. 1786, per
AO: of the lit of July, 1780, 223
Aug. 2, 7jß. Ditto, Attorney to ditto, for dit
to, from the Ift of Januvy, to the
30thof June, 1787, 225
Oft. 16. 785. John Warren, Guardian to the
eldest son of the late Gen. Warren,
beingfor theEducationoffaid eldest
son, for one year, commencing the
4 th of July last, JO4
i; 88. 1021. Joseph Nourfe, Attorney to Colo
nel Richard Gridley, his Pension
from the xft of July, 1787, to the
30th of June, 1788, per Ast of the
ad October last, jf
May 22. 911. George Morgan, for tlie Tuition
of Geo. M. White Eyes, from the lft
of Nov. 1786,10 the 13th o! Sept.i7Bß, (8
1789. 1106. Daniel McCormick, Executor to
March 19. the Estate of Elizabeth Thompson,
deceased, for her Pension from the
lft; of July, tothe 16th of August, 1788, is jl
23. 1161. Joleph Bindon, Attorney to Jo
seph Traverfte, for his Penuonfrom
lft of October, 1788, to 31ft March,
1789, per Ast of the Bth of Au
gust, >782, 60
1,774 <2
CONTINGENCIES of the WAR DEPARTMENT.
*787- 75 1 - Henry Knox, Secretary at War,
Sept. 13. being fortheufe of the Ordinance
Department, i,600 3®
Oft. 1 6- 7&5- Dottor Joseph Waldo, beingfor
his Attendance, and Medicines sup
plied sundry Tick Soldiers of Col.
Jackson's regiment at Springfield, in
the State of MafTachufetts, 25a
Dec. 22. 819. James O'Harra, Contra£loron the
Weftem Frontiers, on Account of
Ifiues to be made under his Contrail,
ana for Expenditure# in the Quar
termaster-General's Department,
. for 28,691 15
1 Deduct so much paid, 19>7U 15 —
March 31. 868. Henry Knox, Secretary at War,
being for the Contingent £xpenfes
of the War Department,
April 14. 890. Ditto, being for the purpofeof sub
sisting Recruits, ordered to be rail
ed by the Resolve of Congrels, of
the 3d of October last, during the
Time they are colletting, and on
their Route from their refpe&ivc
States to Fort Pitt, 5,500
From which dedu& so much
paid on said Warrants, 3,000-—
Ditto. 893. Ditto, being to enable him to dis
charge the Arrears of Pay due to
sundry Store-keepers, and other Of
ficers in the Ordinance Department,
for the year 1787, and to defray
charges hereafter arising in said De
partment, 6,00f
1789. 1074. Ditto, being to discharge the Rent
of sundry Buildings, occupied by
the Public in Virginia, and the Pay
of Thomas Holt, Assistant Deputy
Comiaiflary of Military Stores,from
the iftof July, 1787. tothe3othof
June, 1788,
Feb. 17. 1083. Robert Watts, Attorney to Stephen
Moore, being for the Rent of Weft-
Point, from the 31ft of December,
1787, to the 31ft of December, 1788, 437 45
March 2. *098. James Raid, Attorney to Joseph
Hubley, late Afliftant Deputy-Com
mifiary of prisoners, at, the Poll of
Lancaster, being for his Pay, Rations,
and Forage, from the ift of January,
to the 25th of February, 1782, 9$ 1
April 7. 1128. Smith and Wyckoff,for provifione .
iiTued at Weft-Point, 1
May i£. 1149. Ditto, for their Issues at Weft-
Point in January lait, l 9?
June 17. 1173. Ditto, for iflued at
Weft-Point, 1
Aug. KOi, Ditto for fame Purpose, '9 1
22,838 i*