[No. LXIIJ.j
THE TABLE T No. LXIII.
" He muj} have a bad heart, mho complains when
good wen arc praised ; and his life probably is bad,
whom fear of reproach fills ■with anxiety"
I ENDEAVORED in my last number to fliew,
that panegyric founded in truth
as well as satire. It may now be well to make
a few remarks on the advantages, both are capa
ble of producing. Though many men f'uffer too
severely under the lafhof.the satirist, frill there
are many bad actions prevented solely through
fear of inveiftive. The fling of ridicule is sharp
and piercing. It makes people ashamed of their
follies, while reproach makes them fear to be
vicious. However disagreeable it may be, that
an innocent man fhouid fuffer at all, or that a
blameable one Jhould meet more chastisement
than he deserves, yet both these had better hap
pen, than to takeaway the restraint over thecon
duct of men, which is imposed by a dread of sa
tirical animadversions.
Whether more benefit rcfults from satire than
panegyric need not be enquired into, while it is
evident that much good is produced by both.
Perhaps nothing affords a flronger stimulus to
worthy and noble actions, than the love as well
as the hope of applause. Satire can only re
ft rain men from mean and pferverfe anions, but
encomiums have a politi ve influence in stimulating
to a conduct that is ufeful and honorable. The
dangers and difficulties that are often to be en
countered in the execution of public service
would deter men from attempting to preform it,
were not their fpiric of activity and enterprize
sharpened by lively expeditions of fame and ap
plause. In ascribing to such motive, ihe most
powerful effects, we shall not probably be deceiv
ed ; for we frequently behold men lb situated as
to exclude every profpe<ft of other conipenfation
than the good will and praises of their fellow men.
It is the more beneficial to society that this kind
of recompence ihould always be given, when it
is deserved, because it gives life and motion to
many important actions, and yet coftsthe public
little or nothing. Praise is a cheap method of
purchasing meritorious and distinguished services.
It gratifies fhofe on whom it is conferred, and
subjects those who confer it to no great expence
or inconvenience.
The practiceof shewing respect to eminent cha
racters, by public addrefles,is attended with more
utility than is commonly imagined. It is not on
ly a reward to which part; merit is entitled, but
it proves an a(flive spring to a patriotic line of
conduct in future. If it ihould so happen that in
the warmth and ardor of an address, a person
fhouid have qualities ascribed to him, of which
he is dertitute, what milihief can rclult ! None
atall. More probably it will operate as an in
ducement to acquire those qualifications and vir
tues, for if the penegyric fhouid not be deemed
just, it reflects no real honor on the person to
whom it is addrefled. Other confpiciious men
would like wife be inspired with an emulation to
perform elevated services, that their conduct
might deserve and obtain funilar encomiums. Men
employed in arduous undertakings have frequent
occasion to be invigorated to action. The flrong
eft motives are fonietimcs infufficient to press them
into the hazards and hardships, which circum
stances throw in their way.
It is true that men are often miflaken in their
ideas of praise worthy actions, and feel a pride
of character founded 011 falfe pretentions. But
this is no argument again ft the general utility of
commending such virtues and qualities as really
are displayed. Men from a bad education, or
from a natural perverfenefs of dilpofition may
have erroneous notions of character and yet be
very solicitous of applause. They deceive them
ielvtfs as well as others and gain approbation
where, in many instances, they deserve censure.
There is however no great danger from miflakes
of this kind. The public can generally Form a
just estimation of men, and if they are fomctimes
deceived, it teaches them caution in future.
Noneof the inconveniences that artful pretend
ers can occalion, by imposing 011 the ignorant
and unsuspecting, can balance the solid advanta
ges that society derives, in bestowing liberal
commendations on great and good characters.
THE CRITIC.—AN EXTRACT.
IN the ftrifteft lease he may be callcd * Man of Letters, hi J
ftutl van J capacity being; nearly confined to a just orthogra
phical of the alphabet—His bufiueis is to encoimtre
■the outworks of genius, as he has no key to the gates ot nature
01 -"ltiment—He (nuns faults from far as crows {'cent carrion, and
delights to pick,and to prey, and to dwc;ll upon them.—He i nters
iike a wasp iwcn the garden oi .literature, not to relifli any frag
rance, or to ft leclany sweets, but to pamper his malevolence with
cv< rv thing that favors of rariknefs oroffence—
Hjppily for h>tn, his sagacity does not tend to the d;fcovcryof
merit :in such a cafe, a work of gefuiis would'give him the spleen
1 month, cr poilibly depress his spirits beyond recovery.
W E D N E S D A "Y, -November 18, 1739.
Ths ADDRESS of the Town of PORTSMOUTH,
NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
To GEORGE WASHINGNON,Presipf. Nt of the
United States of America.
S I R,
0 ENSIBLf. of the honor done them by thisvilit
from your Excellency,the inhabitants of Port 1-
fmouth improve this firft opportunity of biclcling
you welcome to New Hamplhire ; aticl beg leave
to mingle their warmest congratulations with
those of their brethren throughout the Union
upon your election to the high and important of
fice of President of the United States.
We attempt not to recount the number, variety
and merit, of your services to our common coun
try these are already written in indelible charac
ters on the heart of every true American, which
the faithful page of history will transmit to ge
nerations yet unborn—but to express our grati
tude to him, who with a magnanimity peculiar
to himfelf under the smiles of heaven, defended
the rights and gave birth to the empire of America.
1 ermit us to add, the grateful sense We enter
tain of our high obligations to you, Sir, as a
town, for our security from that devaluation
which was the fate of many other seaport towns
in the Union, and probably have been ours,
had not the enemy, by your wife and spirited ex
ertions, been driven from the capital of a neigh
bouring State, and compelled to seek an afylurn,
lor a while, within their own dominions.
Our happy escape from this calamity, while it
demands our devout ascriptions of praise to the
great Ruler of all events, consoles us under the
many heavy lodes we have I'uftained in our navi
gation and commerce during the war—the diflref
hng effects of which we Hill but toofenfibly feel.
It is with pleasing emotions, we recognize the
dispensations of divine providence towards the
United States, in placing the Deliverer of his
country at the head of the General Government,
by the unanimous fuffrages of a free and grate
ful people, at a crisis, when none but the man
who has long enjoyed, and richly merited, the
confidence of America, and the plaudits of an
enlightened would, could be found equal to the
arduous task.
We felicitate you, and these States, on your
speedy recovery from your late sickness, and ar
dently widi your life may be continued a blefling
to yourfelf, and your country, and that at fonie
far distant period—full of years, and the molt
benevolent and glorious achievements—enihal.n
sd with the teaisof grateful millions—youmay
be called to inherit an incorruptible crown in the
realms of glory.
JOHN PICKERING,
for <he Inhabitants.
Portsmouth, November 1789.
The A N £ W £ R.
To the Inhabitants of the T :u/j of Portsmouth.
Gentlemen,
T AM fenfib'y imprefled with your friendly v.el-
A come to the metropolis of New-Hainp(hire—
and have a grateful heart for your kind and flat
tering congratulations on my election to the Pre
lidency of the United States.
I fear the fond partiality of my countrymen
has too highly appreciated my palt exertions, and
formed too sanguine anticipations of my future
fcrvices.—lf the former have been fuccefsful,
much of the fiiccefs fliould be alcribed to those
who laboured with me in the common cause—
and the glory of the event should be given to the
great Disposer of events. If an unremitting at
tention to the duties of my office, and the zasal
of an honest heart can promote the public good,
my fellow-citizens may be aflurcd that these will
not be wanting in my present station.
I can claim no particular merit, Gentlemen, for
the preservation of your town from the devaltati
on of the enemy. Jam happy, if by any event
of the war, your property has been preserved
from that deffrutftion which fell but too heavily
on jour neighbours ; and I fincereiy condole
with you for the loss which you have fuftainedin
navigation and commerce; but I truftthat induf
iry and economy, those fruitful and never-failing
sources of private and public opulence, will,
under our present fyltem of government restore
you to your former flourilhing state.
1 he interest which you take in my personal
happiness, and the kind felicitations which you
express on the recovery of my health, are peculi
arly grateful to me ; and I earneltly pray that
:he great Ruler of the Universe may smile upon
your honest exertions here, and reward your
well-doings with future happiness.
G. WASHINGTON.
Pertf/nouth, Nov. 2, 1789.
[/'./ '; J ,« Sj?:,;
THE OBSERVER. No. V.
The manner of taxation in a tn-.mber if the American
State; is cpfre£n e and dijlr.fi.rig to the poor.
TN every State a certain proportion of proper-
A tv jiiult be devoted to public use, to jiipporc
government and defray the expences Qf*general
prefervatiou. The contribution deiigned for tliefe
ends, conllitutes the national revenue, ajid ought
to be paid by the people in proportion to their
ability. Much depends on the manner ofappor
tipning and collecting tlijs contribution. In a
very poor country, by a iuft system of taxation,
lufiicicnt funis to answer the public needs, may
be collected without injuring any ; in the l ichelt
nations on earth, small funis may be demanded
in such a way as to produce a] molt general wretch
edness. In molt nations, there hath been more
opprelfion in tlie manner of taxation, than by
the greatness of the funis demanded. This sub
ject, therefore deserves attention by a people,w ho
are laying the foundations of government and
happiness. rhe resources of this empire are
immense—to call them out in a way that is equal *
and notoppreflive to .myclafs of citizens, is the
only difficulty. My last number urged the pro
priety of including in one general system the
whole American debt, part of which now (lands
charged against the Union, and part against par
ticular States. On this plan, all will fee there
must be some further means of producing a reve
nue tj the United States. In a number o"finftan
ces, the manner of State taxation is oppreflive
to those citizenswho have small property. Repeat
ed attempts have been made in molt ofthe States,
to amend their refpeiftive systems ; but. with lit
tle success. To amend a defective system of fi
nance is next to impossible, and involves more
evils than it cures. The present manner of tax
ation is favorable to a number of opulent mem
bers in every Legislature.i who, tho' they are not
a majority can impede any eflential alteration;
and this is a serious reason, for a transferal of the
State debt to the United States, who in the ar
rangement of a new system, may avoid the op
preflive parts of State taxation. In the States ,of
Maflacliufetts and Connecticut, a Pole tax is in
use. In Connecticut, considerable more than one
quarter of the whole State revenue, arises from
polls. I cannot fay how great a proportion in
Maflachufetts, but believe it is not less. Art
cannot contrive a more oppreflive mode of dravy
ing money from a people, than by a poll tax'.
The frugal and hardy living of the poor general
ly renders them prolific—their houses are filled
with hungVv sons, which with great toil tliey
are educating more for the public, than for tliem
fcl ves. Before tliefe us are arrived to manhood,
the father hath a severe poll tax to pay for them
individually. You will often fee a poor and in
dustrious family, who earn their bread and their
every thing by labouring at a small price per
day, 01- by cultivating the lands' of others oil
shares, pay a greater tax to the State than theii
neighbor of wealth. This is taxing industry and
not property —it is making those who must do the
labor, pay the expense of public protection.
Were the people who inhabitthefe States brought
together, eighteen out of twenty would vote out
a poll tax ; but it is so interwoven with the Srate
fyltems, and so many efforts have been made in
vain, that 1 despair of a remedy, but by a gene
ral and national arrangement, which I am certain
will be on more ju(t principles.
The poll tax is a discouragement to manufac
tures, which the true policy of this country ought
to promote. It is rare that mechanics arrive at
great riches, few of them are able to pay a tax
for a large number of apprentices, and thiscon
fuleration alone prevents many masters, who
would otherwise have their shops filled with poor
boys learning some art ufeful to themselves and
mankind. This is a discouragement both on ma
nufactures and" 011 the poor. -
The taxing of wild and uncultivated lands
takes place in a number of the States. To tax
this property which is absolutely unproductive,
is attended with more evils than will be at firft
imagined. Few men either think it equitable,
or have the means of paying an -annual tribute
for dead property. The old countries in the Uni
ted States are so far cleared that there oue;ht to
be an encouragement for preserving wood and
timber. Many who would be contented to
have their interefl lie without use in wild lands,
not being able to discharge the taxes, have fold
them. Even in the agricultural towns our forefts
are mostly destroyed—the poor unable to pay an
advanced price, begin to fuffer for fuel, and the
dearnefs of timber'and lumber will fooi be se
verely felt by all kinds of people. This piece of
State policy,by grafpingat a little, for it is only a
small furn which any would dare to affix on deadproperty, hath loft much. It Would be better po
licy, in the old countries of America, to allow a
bounty on the growth of timber. We to
enrich the cultivation of our improved lands anil
prcferve our wood.
Arbitrary afledinent by the opinion of one or se
veral men is an oppre/five mode ot taxation, and
ought not to be the bafts of a national revenue. This
is pratftifed, in some manner and degree, by mod of
the States within the union. Justice will not be
done through so many prejudices, as are found
in the minds of aflefiors; and if perfect justice
could be done, the felfilhnefs or ignorance of very
many will lead them to suppose they are over af
fefied. The man thus soured will grumble more
at a small taxation than for four times thefumim
pofed on known principles, and where his exa<ft
quota is calculated by the letter of the law. Taxing
of polls and unproductive property, is an injury
to the poor, and calls onthofe to pay who cannot
without making a great facrificeof their interest.
Arbitrary alleflinenr is exposed so injustice, and
lours the minds of the people. We hope these
things will be considered in the arrangement of fe
deral measures, and that such a plan will bedevif.
Ed by the treasury board, as will invite the people
and creditors to throw the debt under their man
agement.
An ORDINANCE for the rc-eltablilliinentof the
public TRANQUILITY in FRANCE, translat
ed from a Paris Gazette, of Aug. 20.
ExiraCl of the verbal proctfs of the National Alfcm
bly, Atigufl 10th, 1789.
THE National Aflembly, observing that the e
nemies of the Nation, having loft all hopes
of impeding the restoration and re-establishment
of public liberty, by the violence of defpotifin,
appear to have conceived the criminal delign of
accomplishing their ends by means of riot and an
archy ; that among other means, tiiey have at the
fame time and almost on the fame day, caused
falle alarms to be spread in the different provinces
of the kingdom, and that by lpreading reports
of incursions and robberies for which there was
110 foundation, they have excited excefl'es and
crimes which equally affect persons and property,
and who, disturbing the good order of society, de
serve the 1110 ft severe punishment; thatthofe men
have carried their audacity so far as to give out
falfe orders, and evenfalfe edicts from the King,
which have armed one part of the nation againlt
the other, at the very moment when the National
Aflembly were framing decrees the most favorable
to the intereit of the people. Considering that in
the general effervefcence, the most sacred pro
perties and even the harvests, the only hope of
the people in this time of dearth, have not been
respected : Finally, considering that the union of
all powers, the use of all means, and the zeal of all
good citizens, ought to concur in reprelfingfuch
disorders :—lt is ordained and decreed, that all the
municipal officers of the Kingdom, as well those
in cities, as in the country, shall be watchful in the
preservation of the public tranquility; and that
upon their single requisition, the national militia
as well as the marfhalfea, shall be aflifted by the
troops, for the purpol'e of purfuiwg and taking
up the disturbers of the public peace, of what con
dition soever they may be.—That the persons ta
ken up, shall be delivered to the tribunals ofjuf
tice, and immediately interrogated, and tried ;
but the judgment and execution shall be staid in
the cases of those who shall be proved to be the
authors of falfe alarms and the inlligators of pil
lage and violence, either on persons or proper
ty, and that in the mean time, copies of the in
formations, of the interrogations and other
proceedings, shall be forwarded to the National
Aflembly, in order that, upon the examination
and comparison of the proofs collected from dif
ferent parts of the kingdom, the Aflembly may
arrive a. the source of the disorders, and provide
that the leaders of these conspiracies, be subject
tofuch exemplary puniflnnent as ihall effectually
repress the like attempts.
That all seditious aflembling of the people, ei
ther in cities, or in the country, even under the
pretext of hunting, shall be immediately disper
sed by the national militia, the marfhalfea and the
troops, onj.he single requisition of the municipal
officers;— That in the towns and the municipali
ties of the country, as well as in each district of
great cities, a lift shall be taken of all fucli men
as are of 110 trade or profelfion, or have no cer
tain place of abode, who shall be disarmed, and
the national militia, the marfhalfea and the troops,
shall be particularly watchful of their conduct
That all the national militia shall take the oath in
theprefence of their commander, well and faith
fully to serve for the maintenance of peace, for the
defence of the citizens, and against the disturb
ers of the public repose ; and that all the troops,
viz. the officers of every degree, and the soldiers'
shall take an oath to the nation, and to tlieKinw'
the head of the nation, with the most sacred fo
lemnity;—That the soldiers shall l'wear in the
presence of the whole regiment under arms, ne
ver to abandon their colours, to be faithful to the
nation, to the King, and to the law, and to con
form to the rules of military discipline ; That
ill 3 officers Hi all swear at the head of their troojis,
i]i presence of the municipal officers, to remain
faithful to the nation, to the King, and to the
law ; and never to employ those under their com
mand against the citizens, except on the requifi
rion of the civil and municipal officers, which re
quifiiion shall always be read to the troops aflem
bled ; —That the curates of towns and in the coun
try, fhallread the prefeiit ordinance to their pa
rifhoners assembled in the church, and that they
shall use the influence of their ministry, with all
the zeal of which they have always given proofs,
to re-establish the public peace and tranquility,
and to bring back all the citizens to that order and
obedience which they owe tolawful authority.
His Majesty fliall be intreated to give the neces
sary orders, for the full and entire execution of
this ordinance, which shall be forwarded to all
the cities, municipalities and parishes in the king
dom, as well as to all the tribunals, to be there
read, published, polled, and inserted in the regis
ters.
Signed, Le Chapaliere, President.
L'Abbe Sieyes.
LeComtedeLallyTollendal,
Fr ere au,
PETION DE VfXLtNEUVE,
L'Abbe de Montesq_uiou,
Emmery, Sec'rj.
Compared with the original at Versailles, this
13th Aug. 1 789.
L'Abbe de Montesq_uiou,
From the MASSACHUSETTS MAGAZINE.
ODE,
Upon the Arrival of THE PR ESI DENT of the United States
in the town of Ift)STON.
f7 mater juvenem, quem Notus itviJo
Flatu Carpathu trans maris aqucra
Cunflaritium fpatio longiiis annuo
Duki dijlinet a domo,
Votis, ominibufque.et precibus vocat;
Curio nec Jacicm littore demovet j
Sic defiderus ifta fidelibus
Quxrit patria WASHINGTON. Horace.
RECITATIVE.
HE comes! the Hero comes! tis He !
Who gave to Howe this high decree,
" Avaunt—Begone."—He bow'd—He fled !
And hallow'd Freedom rais'd her head,
Where Clinton shook th' avenging rod,
And round thy courts. Almighty God !
Bur coy ne, by impious phrenzy driven,
Taught the war deed to mock at Heaven.
AIR.
MafTachufetts arise !
Seize the Trumpet of Fame,
lone it loud—and proclaim.
Glorious WASHINGTON'S name,
The firft born of the skies !
RECITATIVE.
He comes! the Chieftain comes ! All hail !
'Twas his on Trenton's criinl'on d vale—
And Princeton's lawn'—and Brandyujwe,
To whelm in dull Britannia's line ;
'Twas his, to lead Columbia's train
1 o deathless deeds, on Monmouth's plain ;
Or bid the (lorm of battle cease,
When proud Cornwallis fu'd for peace.
AIR.
Swell the divine ;
Earth repeat it again !
Ocean echo the strain !
Heaven thunder amen !
Columbia ! George Washington's thine!
RECITATIVE.
He comes' the Patriot comes! tis He!
Who fought to nuke his country free ;
Whom no ambition fir'd to arms;
And when theclarion's Ihrill alarms,
Rouz'd not in wrath an angry world,
Laid by those holts which virtue hurl'd,
And bade unconquer'd legions turn,
From war's rude mound—to concord's bourne.
AIR.
Heroes! mark his retreat !
Fair abode! beauteous clime!
Second Eden of time !
Is great Washington's feat!
RECITATIVE.
He comes ! He comes ! He comes! tis He !
Kings! Princes! Nations! bow the knee !
Ye worlds ! pronounce, " Thy will be done
The patriot hero Walhington !
Above a Crown—a Scepter—Throne,
Rules in the heart supreme—alone,
And millions leagued in love's flrong chain,
United shout—God b/ejs his reign.
GRAND CHORUS.
Glorious Washi ncton sway !
All the realms of the weft,
And in blefling, be blest,
Fill th' Eternal's behcit
Shall lummon thyfubjefts away :
Then call'd to the Iky,
Saercd virtue's abode !
Reign forever with God !
In the mansions on high ! Q
fiojlon, Oflober, 1789.
THE TOUR.
Portsmouth, November 5.
ON,.S0 N ,. S^ da , y l3ft - arriwd !n t,lis Metropolis, his Excellency
s^^S WASHINGTON '-»B
His Excellency was met at the line by the President and Council
of ih.s State several members of the Hon. House of Reprefcntal
thi V , h°"- v C^ S , Langd ° n 3nd Wir, S" te ' Senators fo r
b - lc -^ ll « h °n. Nicholas GUinan, Esq.—the Treafurei of this
Sum—ibr L<m» O.Ti. ■ Mu:\",al and \ !!Mr .
the Hon. Confui o! Fran.-?, I'.r Secretary of ihii Si'mf r ' ? 1 n ™
nrral Officers, attended hy Col. CogfwVll, wlt h |„, ' tvc,il(:
Light Horse, in complete uniform—a refpefljble
ccrs in the I lvil Department, and private jreiulemen
The Prehdcnt was escorted to the line bv a pirtv 6[ horse f,
o |n i " l(ler S,a ' c < jnd was there introduced, in lorm'. to thr i\
gentlemen ot diftinftion who were wailing his arrival
He then p.ifTed the troopi duwn opto receive him,'who h»
all> \icd with each other, who Iliould pay the most refnttttn/"
man whom Heaven approves, and' Americans delijht to hn„„
The Prelrdent then dismounted from his horse, took, his carp;
and was escorted to Greenland. The way. for the inoft part' W
ing lined with fpetlatois of all ranks. At Greenland he Ls'.n
by Col. Wentworth's corps of Independent Horse 'incomoW
uniform, having their standard dilplayed. as were the ftandardirf
the fevcral corps; many mote officers of the militia, and U,„i
gentlemen from this and the neighboring towns. The Prefix
after a (hoit Jtav at Greenland, remounted his horse, and pafl>d
the officers who were drawn up near the Globe Tavern umU
he ,3nd ° f thC H ° n * MaJ ° r Gcneral ClUey ' t0 falutc ' h "» *
At his entrance into this town he was saluted by thirteen can.
non from three companies of Artillery, in complete uniform
under the command of Col. Hacket. The street thro wh.cß he
palled (Congress ftrect) was lined by the citizens of the town all
the crafts being ranged alphabetically—the bellsrang a joyful peal
and repeated (bouts from grateful tlioufands, hailed their Deliver
er welcome to the Metropolis of Newhamplhire.
Then did the people*s jujl applauses rife,
And the loudjhout ran echoing thro the Jkies.
A federal salute was fired from theCaftle, the ships l n the har
bor weredreflTed, and the windows and doors of every houfc were
crowded with ladies, anxious to fee and bless the man to whom
America (lands fomuch indebted.
On his arrival at the State House, he was conduced to the S
enate Chamber, by the President and Council of this State, and
took his llation in the balcony, when in a stage ere&ed for that
purposed, three Odes, for the occasion, were fungbva
number of gentlemen, accompanied by the band.
Then the whole of the troops, under the command of Major.
Geeeral Cilley, parted him in review, horse, foot, and artillery,
and the line of officers, every officer saluting as he paired. The
troops then retired, and the President was condu&ed to his lode
ings, at Col. Brewfter's, by the President and Council of this
State, the Hon. Mr. Langdon, and the Marftial of this diftritt,
escorted by a company under arms, and in complete uniform.
Every thing was conducted with the greatest poflible order and
regularity—each countenance beamed with liveiv joy—sorrow
was banifhedfar away, and each heart beat grateful to the name of
WASHINGTON.
In the evening the State House was beautifully illuminated—
thirteen rockets were let off the balcony—Mutual congratulations
took place, and the day concluded without any unlucky occurrence
to mar the pleasure excited by so auspicious an event. Thus far
for the day—We flatter ourselves it will be remembered so
as patriotism continues to be a virtue, and the name of WASH
INGTON to found grateful to American cars.
On Sunday last, the illustrious President of the United States,
accompanied by his Excellency President Sullivan, and the Hon.
Mr. Langdon, together with his two Secretaries, attended divine
service at the Queen's Chapel in the morning, and at thefirft Con
gregational Church in the afternoon. The President was then
conducted to his pew, attended by the Marftial of this dtllrift, and
two Church Wardens with their staves. On this uncommon occa
sion, both houses of woi(hip were crowded with
whom were a brilliant concourse of the fair daughters of Hantonia,
whofc lovely countenances teftifiedthe heart-felt joy, the prclenc:
of their illustrious countryman inspired.
The Rev. MefTrs Ogden and Buckminfter, in their well adapted
difcourfcs, paid a just and beautiful eulogium, on the numerous
virtues of this dignified personage, whose appearance diffufed such
general joy, and awakened in every bread the most grateful sensa
tions. Felicitating their numerous hearers on the happy occasion,
which called them together, to offer up their unfeigned thanks,
to the Supreme Ruler of the World, for all his mercies, and to
implore a continuance of his divine and gracious benediction on
the head of their beloved chief.
At the Queen's Chapel, several pieces of sacred music were per
formed, suited to the above occasion.
On Monday morning the President of the United States (ac
companied by President Sullivan, the Hon. Mr. Langdon, the
Marshal of this diftrift, the Confui of France) and his two Secre
taries, took an excurlion down the harbor. The barge which
contained the President, was rowed by seamen dressed in white
frocks, having for its coxswain, Capt. Hopley Yeaton, of thu
town.
The barge which contained the Confui of France, and the Pre
sident's two Secretaries, was rowed by seamen, dressed in round
blue jackets, with round hats decorated with blue ribbowaoo
wavers. 1
The President was landed and made a (hort tarry at Kittery,
the Province of Maine.
A number of young gentlemen who compose the banding
town, anxious to afford our illustrious and beloved President, ail
the entertainment in their power, followed him in a barge, ana
performed several pieces of music on the water, we hope to lJ
acceptance. His Excellency was landed at Col. Wentwort $
feat, from thence proceeded to town by land, when he was again
saluted by a discharge of artillery from Church hill: Then f
President and suit, with a number of gentlemen of diftiottWi
dined with the Hon. Mr. Langdon. ~
On Tuefdayan elegant entertainment was given by the Preli 0
and Council of this State to the President of the United States, i
which were pre sent most of the principal officers of Government
the bar, clergy, and many other gentlemen of diftinftion, to
number of one hundred. After dinner the following toalts we
drank, viz.
ift. The PRESIDENT of the United States.*
2d. LOUIS the 16th, the Defender of Freedom.
3d. The 4th of July, 1776.
4th. Our friends and allies throughout the world.
sth. The Vice President of the United States. .
6th. May the illustrious author of our liberties long remain
Protestor. , c
7th. The band of heroes who fought and bled in the cauc
Freedom. . 1.
Bth. May the posterity of those patriots who laid the o un
tion of our liberty, long support its glorious fabric.
9th. May the wisdom of our cabinet, preserve the frui $
contest in the field. . f , ton ,
10th. May the commerce of America travel with the un,
ly go down with the skies. r reC .
nth. From the sources of American Independence m y
dom be diffufed through the earth. f
In the evening an elegant ball was g :ve n W'jhe gentler
Portsmouth, which the President honored with his pre e
he was introduced to a brilliant circleof more than leverl)'
The President being seated, an excellent song wasfung a n j D g
led by the band ; after which the dances began, an occa fjon
passed away with all the joy and good humor which
naturally inspired. ' , ~, t left this
Yesterday morning, at half past seven the rre 1
town, on his return to New-York, and will take 1
parts of this State in his tour.
After the firfl toafl, the Prcfdcnt arcfe } *ni.very
State of New- fiamppiire.London, settember 9.
t'aul Jones, having obtained leave to come to
France on his private affairs, took leave of the Ein
prefs at Petersburg 011 the 7th of July ; when her
Majelty conferred 011 hiui the order of St. Anne,
as a mark of her approbation If his conduct ]alt
campaign. He retains his rank and pay of Admiral
in that lervice, and has only obtained affiort leave.
The Ruffian flotilla in the Archipelago has ob
tained some advantages over the Turks, and has
taken one of their islands.
By a letter from Count Voinorich, dated the jth
of J uly last, we are informed that a R ullian squad
ron of nine fail, commanded by Admiral Lorenzi,
met, at a lmall distance from the island of Tine,
with a Turkilll squadron of three fail of the line,
four frigates, five xebecks, and two lialf-gallies.
The Turks bore down on the Ruffians, who
•waited for them ; and so well did they receive
them that they were put to flight, notwithllanding
their great superiority ; and the Ruffians were in
purfuitof them when this letter was written.
There is 110 truth in the report of the Emperor
having concluded a separate pcace. He has found
the war expensive and unfuccelsful, and accord
ingly so like his othei frhemes that he is deter
mined to purlue it.
The Guardian transport was to fail this morning
from Portfinouth, 011 her voyage to Port-Jackson ;
she has 25 convidfcs 011 board, mollly carpenters and
blacksmiths, and a lading of beds, cloathing, and
other articles, of which Commodore Philips,had
not a fufficient supply. Eight fuperintendants of
convi<sts embarked with them ; and a ikilful botan
ilt, provided with glass frames, and every thing
■ necessary for the preservation of rare plants, for
the royal garden at Kew.
This day the mails arrived from Holland and
Flanders. No engagement of any consequence
has recently happened between the belligerent
powers.
They write from Paris, of the jthinftant, that
the General Alfembly at the Hotel de Ville have
taken up seriously, since the projected attack on the
Kihg's person, the buiinels of the infurrecftion,
which they have resolved to quell at any rate.
The wretchedness and poverty of the French
peasantry had been heretofore remarked by al
uiolt every traveller who gives a description of
France. And the principal causes ailigned were,
the oppressive taxes, which fell principally on
the poorer orders, with the contribution paid to
a numerous clergy. Now the nobility mull con
tribute an equal quota in proportion to their
land, with tlie commons, which will, in time,
rcduce the taxes on the latter, and a new modus
being (truck out for tithes, the farmer will be ne
ceiiarily exonerated from a great part of his
burdens, and a substantial yeomanry spring up,
almost as yet unknown in that country. Thus
it will not only be a revolution, from whence free
dom will display its banners through the land,
but there will be a change in the manners of the
people, and competence and smiling plenty fuc
cced poverty, hardfliip, and we may fay, ineffec
tual labour and toil.
A short time since as Mrs. Maxwell, of Harley
street, Cavendiili square, was fitting alone by the
drawing room fire, in expectation ot some com
pany lhe had engaged, the poker fell on her a
p I*oxl, and set fire to it. Alarmed at the accident,
fiie flew towards the staircase, screaming for af
filbmce ; being met by the butler, he endeavored
to extinguish the flames, which by this time had
communicated to every part ofherdrels ? his ef
forts, however, were of 110 avail, lor though he
finally extinguiflied the flames, after sustaining
considerable injury himlelf, the unfortunate
lady was so much burnt, that ffie expired yester
day morning.
OF ACCIDENTS BY FIRE.
IT too frequently happenstliat young children
are left alone in rooms with a lire in the chim
ney corners —many a child has loit its life by this
want of caution.-Children Ihould be rertrained
from a propenftty which they are very apt to dis
cover of playing with fire—and it would contri
bute very much to their preservation, if all who
wear gowns, had them made of foine woolen
fabrick in winter. .
It should be impreflcd 011 the mind of every
person, that the molt certain and speedy method
of preventing fatal conl'equences from the cloatlis
of women or children suddenly catching fire, is
to ftille the flame instantaneously by rolling or
huddling the cloaths all together—when that
cannot be done by reason of the fire s having en
veloped the fubjecft, any covering that can be lud
denly wrapped round, or thrown over them, will
be the next belt resource. ,
A young lady standing with her back towards
a stove, caught her gown on fire, which imme
diately blazed above her head a pei on in tle
room wrapped the fides of the gown over the
blaze, which extinguilhed it without any injury.
A gentleman going into his parlor, w el e a
child had been incautiously left alone, " um *
cloathes in a blaze—he instantly thiew t lec 11
on the carpet, which fortunately happener no
to be nailed down, and throwing the cornel o it
over the child, the flame was smothered, which
no other method would Jiaveeffetfted in season to
have laved its life.
Two fchildreu in this city, being together in a
room last week—one of them in placing an apple
on the hearth to retail, caught her gown on fire
which was immediately in a blaze—this was ex
tinguished in the above manner, by a person
who providentially happened ro into the room :
The fire had got to fitch a height, that cho in
performing the benevolent a eft, they burnt their
hands, the life of the child was undoubtedly
saved by their prelence of mind,in having recourse
to this summary method.
PRO BONO PUBLICO.
New-York, Nov. 17, 1789.
ON TITLES.—us txTttcT.
title of Excellencyis conferred by the British government,
X (where it originated) on persons of diflinguiflied rank; yet,
they arc always considered as inferior. It is given to p?rfons at
the head of departments, hut at the fame time, such as arc consi
dered subordinate to thefupremc cxecutiveauthoiity of the nation.
I o render the application of the title proper therrfore, and con
fiftcnt with the original idea on which it was founded, it ought
not to have been conferred on the firft and highest executive au
thority of the Stated, before their late union ; becaufc the office
and rank was fupreine and unfubordinate. But as the States have
united in a general government, and by that have rendered the
government of the States in some refpefts subordinate to the na
tional government, the title of Excellency becomes again proper
for the governorsof the refpeftive States ; at the fame time however;
it renders it improper for the Prcfidentof the United States.
IMPROMPTU ON TITLES.
"T T IS name alone, flriies ev'ry Title dead"
XjL If that is true, what further need be said ?
And yet, confident! patriotic! wife!
Inferior Titles, Gratitude supplies.
A Monster would, fans doute, from order spring,
And Lap-Dog Dr acon, prove a dreadful thing.
BOSTON, November 7.
MEDAL TO M. SCOTT.
We mentioned sometime ftnee the brilliantand
humane atftion of M. Scott, a Lieutenant of his
Moil Christian Majesty's squadron, in leaping
from the gallery of le Leopard man of war, and
laving the life of a cabin boy who had fallen o
ver. \Y r e have now the pleasure to inform, that
on Saturday lalt, agreeably to a vote of the Trus
tees of the Humane Society of this Common
wealth, a committee of the Society, confiding of
the Hon. Thomas Russell, Esq. Vice-Preiident,
the Hon. M. de Letombe, Coniul of France, Dr.
Aaron Dexter, and the Rev. Peter Thatcher, re
paired totliehoufe oftheConful of France, where
were previously aflembled the Right Hon. the Vis
count de Ponteves, the Marquis de Galliifionere,
and the other principal officers of the squadron,
together with all the officers of le Leopard—and
where Mr. Russell, as Chairman of the Commit
tee presented to M. Scott de Balvery, Lieu
tenant ofle Leopard, a Gold Medal, which he,
in a very elegant address, requeiled M. Scott de
Balvery to accep:, as a token commemorative of
his activity and humane intention exhibited in
saving a young lad from drowning who had fall
en from the deck of le Leopard .• To which ad
dress M. Scott de Balvery returned the following
anl'wer :
GENTLEMEN*, ,
I AM much jlattered in receiving from yon the honorable tejiimony oj
the happy atl you are so kind as to conjecrate. The citizens ojMajfachu
fetts have d'jtinguijhed themselves by so worthy an ivjlitution as that to
which you belong ; but it is not theJirJl example of general virtue they
have given the world : Thoje who have fought with so much courage and
success jor the rights oj mankind, mojl certainly know better than others,
how precious is human /i/e.
After which the committee took their leave,
and were conducted to their carriages by the Com
mander and other officers of the iquadron.
A Portrait of THE PRESIDENT has been ta
ken by Mr. Gulliger, the limner.
NOT E.
* The Medal reprclentcd on one fide, the flern and gallery
of a ship of war, with * lad struggling in the water underneath,
and a person in the ast of leaping from the ship to rescue the
drowiim' victim, with a motto, Vitam Pf.reuntl' -On
the reverie, Mass. Hum. Soc. Dom. SCOTT DE BALVERY,
Fretis imtav hie J u venEM eripuit.—The Medal is i veiy
hand some one, and w*as engraved by Callekder.
OUR ALLIES.
It muff; afford fatisfaftion to every friend to A
merica,to observe the perfectly good intelligence
which fubfiits between the citizens of the United
States, and their gallant allies of the Frelich na
tion.—And what mull add to that fatisfatftion, are
the polite attentions and refpeft which have been
ffiewn to our beloved PRESIDENT by the Right
Hon. the Vifcountde Ponteves Gien, and the
other officers of the squadron of his Moil Christian
Majelty. Immediately on the arrival of the Pre
sident, the noble Viscount and the officers (con
duced by the Hon. Consul of France, dgreeeably
to the ordinance of the King) waited on him at his
residence, and paid him their refpetfts.—And the
President, in directing his Secretary to offer to the
Viscount and other officers, his thanks for the obli
ging manner in which they have been pleased to
honor his arrival in this metropolis, demonstrated
how cordial to him, were the friendfhips and at
tentions of the allies of the Union. On the Mon
day after his arrival, the Viscount de Ponteves
again waited 011 the President, who was pleased
to express his intention of visiting the squadron of
his Mod Christian Majesty ; which he did on the
following day. On his arrival 011 board the Jlluf
tre, the Viscount introduced him to all the offi
cers, amounting to thirty, wlio had the honor of
fightingiii Lhe common <i.<ufc, 111 America, during
the late war—after which the Vifbount presented
to liim the fevei al liiips officers of the squadron.
Having visited the Hit,pre and the Leopard, the
President returned to town, accompanied by thtf
Commander of the fqundron, Aiucli pleased with
the elegance and beauty of the (hips, and the or
der and urbanity of the French feameii.
The barge which conducted tlie President on
board the fliips, had the American flag at her
bow and that oi France on her stern—and one
of the Majors of the Squadron had the honor to
act as cockswain.
Both going and returning the President receiv
ed a royal salute from all the (hips, and a federal
lalutefrom the Caltle.
NEW-YORK, NOVKM BR 18.
Extra ft of a letter from Boftou, to the Editor hereof,
dated November 3.'
THE President hath visited us—" All his steps
were dignity and love"—lt was glorious at once
to embrace our Friend and Brother—Fellow Ci
tizen —General—Supreme Magi ft rate—Political
Father—Head of our Nation—and Representative
of the Majesty of the United States—whose vir
tues are a blefling to the world.—Every pulse
feenied to l>eat ardor for his welfare—every heart
was animated—and molt sincere were our efforts
to pay him refpecft—and make him happy.
My confinement by levere indisposition, the day
alter his arrival, and during his residence here,
deprived me of the pleasure of paying my per
sonal refpeJts to him—This was a great draw back
upon my happiness oji the glorious occasion.
The tour of The PRESIDENT thro the Ealtern
States is an event, which has served to call forth
the latent principles of virtue, gratitude, and pa
triotifm,in an eminent degree :—The real friends
to the revolution—the advocates for government,
peace, and freedom, were fully convinced than
the attachment of the people to the Constitution
was solid and permanent —that their love and
■veneration for the President could receive 110 ad
dition—Still the pen of Slander has not been idle
—and the tongue of calumny has not been Silent
—while jealouftes and apprelienfioiis have been
excited rcfpeifting imaginary evils—lt therefore
seemed neceflary that some great occasion Should
offer, to call forth the real fentimerits of the
Union, and afford that demonstrative evidence:
of what the people feel, which all the adversaries
of our national honor " Should not be able to
gainsay or resist."—
Extra# of a letter from. Bojlon. dated Oflrtey 28.
This day, at i 1 o'clock the Prchdent was conveyed in the Ad
miral's burgeon boad the .Admirals', (hip— the Major ol the fleet
(leered, the raidfhipmen rowed, all drefled in red—when the
President arrived he was received onboard, in the fame stile thev
receive their Kin o s, viz. The Officers toojv. off their (hoes—
and the crew all appealed with their legs naked.
By a veflcl in 38 days from Havre tie Grace in
France—which arrived here on Sunday lait, we
learn, that all was peace and quietness in that
kingdom.
The United States will undoubtedly rife to
higher degrees ol eminence in the fcalc'of em
pire, than any of the nations that have gone be
fore them —the moll cursory view of the Subje<fi
furnifhes ample ground for fucli a belief.—What
were all the nations ot the earth in point of le
gislative knowledge, compared to the people of
this confederated republic ? History furnifhes no
thing, that Should lead us to suppose that the
do«flrine of equal and just representation was ev
er known among them—a Safeguard to freedom
that can never fail so long as we justly prize it.
How very few are the names of persons who
were eminent for knowledge and virtue, that his
tory has handed down to us —T he present century
has produced more men of luperior abilities in
the little Island of Britain, than flourished in the
Roman empire for tvvo tboufand years.—And A
merica has infinitely the advantage of the moll re
fined, and enlightened of any of the ancient re
publics—whether the comparison is made with
refpe<ft to the foundations of the governments, or
the habits, genius and information of the peo
ple.—Rome was founded by freebooters, and the
leading principle of the policy of that people in
all the periods of their existence was conquest.—
This was reduced to habit—her patricians found
their account in eiicouraging the propensity—
her victories were the victories of savages—and
the conquerors of the world, were finally subdu
ed by their acquisitions ; for in proportion to their
abilities,! the Roman people, and every other
nation since time began, were luxurious.
To what purpose then is the example of the
ancients held up to the people of the United
States ? —They have more effectual barriers a -
gainlt luxury, in their local Situation, in the prin
ciples of their government, in their Superior
light—and especially in the means of perpetua
ting knowledge,and the principles of humanity,
their Schools and universities, than the world
hath ever been favored with in any former period.
ARRIVALS—YESTERDAY.
Ship Zaanftiom, Chclden, Amllerdam.
Ship Ann, Brown, BriftQl, days.
Brig Susanna, Durry, Dublin, 4a days.
Brig Refoluuon, Jenkins, Cork, 56 days.
Schoopcr Hope, Brown, New-Providence* ij days*1/A '- letters.
L E T T E R XI.
r Amsterdam, Oct. i 7, 1780.
OUR eleventh question will give an opportuni
-■ ty of making some obfervationsnpona fubjedl
that is quiit misunderstood in every part of Eu
iope. I fiiall ani'wer it with pleasure, ac
coi ding to the bell of my information, and with
ihe utuioit candor.
i lie quellion is, " How great is the pr.'J] nt debt
(/J America ? What has J}>e occafton for yearly to
ast defenjively ? Are thoje wants J applied by the
inhabitants themjelves, or by other nations ? If in
'^ e latter cafe, what does America lose of her
strength by it ? Are they not, in one manner or other,
recompensed again by J 'ome equivalent advantage ?
tf J~°> what manner'? What would be required to
a(i off en five ly, and by that means fhorttn the war ?"
All Europe lias amiltaken apprehension of the
present debt of America. This debt is of two
foi ;s ; that v hichis due from the Thirteen Unit
ed States in Congress aflembled ; and that which
is owing from each of the Thirteen States in its se
parate capacity. lam not able to fay with pre
cision what the debt of each separate State is, but
al! these added together, fall far fliortof the debt
of the United States.
1 lie debt of the United States conlifts of three
branches: 1. the Aims which have been lent them
by trance and Spain, and by Mr. Beauinarchais
and Company : These have been for purchalinji
some supplies of cannon, arms, ammunition ana
cloathing for the troops ; for allilling prisoners
elcapedfrom England, and for some other pnrpof
cs ; but thewhole Ann amountstono great thing.
2. I lie Loan-OiTice Certificates; which are
promiflbrv notes given to individuals in America,
who have lent paper money to Congress, and are
their lecurities for the payment of the principal
nndintereft. These the Congress have equitably
determined flinll be paid, according to the value
of the paper bills, in proportion to silver, at the
time of their dates.
3. 1 lie paper bills which are now in circula
tion, or which were in circulation 011 the eigh
teenth day of March last. Tliefe bills amounted
to the nominal ium of two hundred millions of
dollars ; but the real value of them to thepoflef
fors is estimated at forty for one, amounting to
five millions of Spanifli dollars, or one million and
-a quarter sterling. This is the full value of them,
perhaps more ; but this estimation has given fatis
fa<slion, in America to the pofleflors of them, who
certainly obtained tliem in general at a cheaper
rate.
These three branches of debt, which are the
whole, (according to a calculation made last May,
and fern me by a Member of Congress, who has
been four years a member of their Treasury-board
and is a perfe(Jl mailer of the fubjetft) amount in
the whole to five millions sterling, and 110 more.
"1 he national debt of America then is five millions
sterling.
In Older to judge of the burthen of thisdebt, we
may compare it with the numbers ofpcople .They
are three millions. The national debt of Great
Britain is t\vo,hundred millions. The number of
people in England and Scotland is not more than
fix u)inions.--\Vhy fh'ould not America, with three
millions oi people, be able to bear a debt of one
hundred millions, as well as Great Britain, with
fix millions cf 1 people, a debt of two hundred mil
lions ?
We may compare it with the exports of Ame
rica:—ln 1774 the exports ,of America were fix
millions sterling. In the fame year the exports
of Great Britain were twelve millions.—Why
would not the exports of America, ot fix millions,
bear a national debt of one hundred millions, as
well as the twelve millions of British exports bear
a debt of two hundred millions?
We 111 ay compare it, in this manner, with the
national debt of France, Spain, the United Pro
vinces, Ruflia, Sweden, Denmark, Portugal ; and
you will find that it is but final! in couiparifon.
We may compare it 111 another point of view.
Great Britain has already spent in this war sixty
millions sterling—America five millions. Great
Britain has annually added to her national debt
more than the whole amount of her annual exports.
America has not added to hers, in the course of
five years war, a sum eijual to one years exports.
The debt of Great Britain is, in a large propor
tion of it, due to foreigners, forwhich theymuft
annually paythe interest, by lending cash abroad.
A very trifle of the American debt'is yet due to
foreigners.
Lord North borrowed last year twelve millions,
and every future year of tliewarmuft borrow the
fame 01 a larger fuin—America could carry 011
this war an hundred years, by borrowing on ly one
million sterling a year.
The annual expenceof Americahasnotliither
to exceeded one million a year—that of Great
hi itam has exceeded twenty millions some years.
America may therefore carry on this war an hun
dred years, and at the end "of it be 110 more in
debt, in proportion to lier present numbers of peo
ple, and her exports hi 1 774, than Great Britain
is now.
There is another confederation of some weight;
the landed inlereft in America is vastly greater,
in proportion to the mercantile interelt, than it
is in Great Britain. The exports of America are
the productions of the foil annually, which in
crease every year. The exports of Great Britain
were manufactures, which will decrease every
year, while this war with America lalts.
The only objection to this reasoning is this,
that America is not used to great taxes, and the
people there are not yet disciplined to such en
ormous taxation as in England. This is true; and
this makes all their perplexity at present: But
they are capable of bearing as great taxes in pro
portion as the Engliih; and if the English force
them to it, by continuing the war, they will re
concile themselves to it: And they are in fact now
taxing themselves more and more every year, and
to an amount, that a man who knew America on
ly twenty years ago would think incredible.
Her wants have hitherto been l'upplied by the
inhabitants themselves, and they have been very
little indebted to foreign nations. But on ac
count of the depreciation of her paper, and in
order to introduce a more liable currency, she
has now occasion to borrow a sum of money a
broad, which would enable her to support her
credit at home, to exert herfelf more vigorously
againit the English both by sea and land, and
greatly aiTlft herin extending her commerce with
foreign nations, especially the Dutch. America
would not lose of her strength by borrowing mo
ney, but, on the contrary, would gain vallly.
It would enable her to exert herfelf more by pri
vateering, which is a mine of gold to her. She
would make remittances in bills of exchange to
foreign merchants, for their commodities ; and
it would enable many perfonsto followtlieir true
intei elt in cultivating the land, inflead of attend
ing to manufactures, which being iiidifpenfible,
they are now obliged more or less to follow, tlio'
less profitable. The true profit of America is
the continual augmentation of the price and va
lue of land. Improvement in land is her prin
cipal employment,her belt policy, and the princi
pal source of her growing wealth.
The lall question is easily answered. It is,
" 11 hat would he required to a(l offensively, and by
" that means shorten the -war ?"
To this I answer, Nothing is wanted but a loan
of money and a fleet of ships.
A fleet of ships, only fufficient to maintain a
superiority over the English, would enable the
infant Hercules to flrangle all the serpents that
em non liis cradle. It is impoflible toexprefs in
too ltrong terms the importance of a few lhips of
the line to the Americans. Two or three French,
or Dutch, or Spanish ships of the line, Rationed
at Rhode-Island, Bollon, Delaware River, orChe.
fapeake Bay, would liave prevented the dread
ful facrifice at Penobfcot. Three or four ships of
the line would have prevented the whole expe
dition to Charleßon. Three or four ships of the
line more, added to thp squadron of the Chevalier
de Ternay, would have enabled the Americans to
have taken New-York.
A loan of money is now wanted, to give liability
to the currency of America; to give vi<r OU r to
the enlifhnents for the army ; to add alacrity to
the fitting out privateers ; aJid to give an ample
extention to their trade.
The Americans will labor through, without a
fleet, and Without a loan. But it is ungenerous
and cruel to put tliem to such difficulties, and
to keep mankind embroiled in all the horrors of
war, for want of such trifles, which so many of the
powers of Lurope wish they had, and could so easily
furniih. But if mankind inuft be embroiled, and
the blood of thousands mull: be shed, for want of
a little magnanimity in some, the Amcricansmuf
not be blamed, it is not their fault.
„ 1 h ave the honor to be, &c.
MR. CALKOEN. JOHN ADA MS.
LIFE or CALLIMACH iTs!
C[Srom the French of Le Ftvm.l
ALLIMACHUS was ofCyrene, a city of Africa,
and lived under the reign of Ptolemy Philadcl
plius, and alio under that of Ptolemy Euergates, as
maj be easily provedby some paflages in his works.
I his poet was one of the wisest men of his acre •
and perhaps it would be difficult to find any au
thor, who hau written a greater number of po
ems. But he did not love long productions ; there
fore he never wrote but one piece of a tolerable
lenth which he entitled The Causes. And
when lie was aiked why he was so fond of what
could be only termed mere effufions, he replied,
A pond ious volume is a grievous thing."
We find the fame thought at the end of one
i.s , ymi „ j s exprefled in a manner
v-ould E r K e,U: ; T? V° mh] y that manner
would not be unacceptable to the reader. << The
Euphi ates, fays he, "is anobleriver; but for his
fn-m.V Pl 'i efer th ° fe Utt,e ' and
fountains one drop of which is more precious
than all the mud and citron of that great river.''
Nothing of lus has reached us exccpt some epi
grains and a few hymns *. His style is Z and
nervous. Catullus and Oropertius have frequftu
lv imitated ; and fomctimes (lb high did their ad
miration of him rife) even translated him!
*Hu hymns were ,legally trained by the uufcrtunate Dr. Dodd.
Ne \v -York. November j 8 u
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sep"' £ g
GENERAL ACCOUNT of ANTICIPATIONS*
A MOUNTof Orders drawn hy t 1 ' htfScrperin
! Cnda,, . t , of ,/'?" *• " P» JDol
inent herewith, No. I.
Amount of Warrants drawn by the lite board of 93:46 * **
Treasury, remaining unpaid, as pr. particular State
ment herewith, No. 11. 0
15 9.g06^
Treasury of the United State*. ' "' hj 395 63
Bfgjlir's OJite, Sept. 1789.
The Secretary of the Treafur.y ) <° SlP > ! *V»,,
oj the United States. £
No. J.
A particular STATEMENT of ORDERS drawn
by the late Superintendant of Finance, on ie
veral of the Receivers of Taxes, remaining
unpaid, and were comprised in the Estimate
made by the Secretary of the Treasury, and
by him reported to the House of Representa
tives of the United States.
Date of Orders. n> ,
March o, 1784. ON William Whipple,Receiver '
for New-Hampshire, in favor of
Capt. PhilipLeibert, beingbalance
o!f>ay due him, 10 - .
March 8, 1784. On do. iu favor of Capt. An
thony Sclin, being do. 210 r
Sept. 30, 1784. On George Olney, Receiver for
Rhode-Island, in favor of Timothy
Pickering^Quartermafter-General,
for the ufc of his department,
3>°oo
Deduct so much paid, 1,053 68
—1.946 28
Ditto. On Thomas Tillotfon, Receiver
for New-York, in favor of Timo
thy Pickering, Quarter mailer Ge
neral for the ule of his depart
ment, 50,000
Sept. 30,1784. On do. in favor of Abraham
Skinner, late Commiflary-General
of Prisoners for the payment of Af
fumpfions made by him for the
Board of Prisoners at Long-Island, 38:892 75
Ditto. On William Gcddes, Receiver
for Delaware, in favor ofTimothy
Pickerijig, Quartermafter-Gcneral
for the ule of his department,
5,000
D.'dust so much paid, 2,700
— 2,330
Dollars, 93,463 29
Treasury of the United States.
Regijkcr's Office, 24 th Sept. 1789.
No. 11.
A particular STATEMENT of WARRANTS
drawn by the late Board of Treasury on Mi
chael Hill eg as, late Treasurer of the Uni
ted States, which remain unpaid, and were
comprised in the Eflimate made by the Secre
tat-y of the Treasury of the United States, and
by him reported to the House of Representa
tives of the United States.
Warrant, f Ao " [| Department, a{'/[7r"what draun. | M
CIVIL LIST.
1786.
oa. to. 5 22 EDWARD CHINN, Comm.f
fioner for adjusting the Accounts
of Rhode-Island, for his own and
Clerks Office-rent, See.
from the ill of July, to 30th Sept.
1786, ■ 46415
Paid in part, 50' —4M J 5
1787- 804 Arnold H. Dohrman, late agent
Nov. 19. for the United States, at the Court
ofLifbon, his salary, 15,600
Paid in part, 2.562 46
— 13>°37 44'
1788. 927 Elizabeth Wallace, for the pay-
J ul X 5- ment of a Rcgifter's Certificate in
favor of Robert Patton, pr. act of
Congress, 24th of June, 1788. 557 l *
943 Jonathan Burial), Aflignee to
John White, late Commiflioner
for the States of Pennsylvania, De
laware, and Maryland, for salaries
and contingent expences from lft
January to 3d of March, 1788, 7°i 35
944 Do. Aflignee of William Win
der, Commiflioner for the States
of Virginia and North Carolina,
for salaries and contingent expen
ses of his office, from lft of Aprilto
#oth June, 1788, 1:354
Sept. 3. 979 Dunlap and Claypoole, for print
ing the Resolves of Congress, ad- .
vcrtifcments for contrasts, See. Jl s 3
980 Jeremiah Wadfworth, Aflignee
of Jonathan Trumbull, being for
the principal and interest of a Re
gifler's Certificate, pr. act of Con
gress, 28th July, 1788, 2,383 45
Deduct so much paid,
as appears by the Re
ceiver's Account, 2.000 38345
984 Jonathan Burrall, Afligi 'of
John White, Commiflioner for the
States of Pennsylvania, Delaware,
and Maryland, salaries and contin
gent expenses of office, for one
quarter, ending 30th June, 94
2 7* 985 Ditto, Aflignee of do. being an
advance on account of said White's
salary, 6 °°
Oft. 9. 956 Joseph Hardy, Attorney to
George Reed, Commiflioner for
South Carolina and Georgia, for
salaries, quarter ending 30th June, 34
Dec. 19. 1038 Edward Chinn, late Commis
sioner for Rhode-Island, for sala
ries and contingent expenses of of-
sice, one quarter,ending 30th Jnne,
(To be continued.) Dollars, ,7