[No. LXI.]
THE TABLE T. No. LXI.
" When men art certain that the truth of a thing
is not to be known, they "will alio ay s differ, and endea
vor to ivipofe on one anothtr."
THOUGH men difputefor the purpose of
ascertaining truth, yet there are few
men who find less of it, than those who dispute
acreat deal. The habit of disputation is a dan
gerous one. It creates fucha love oi triumph that
jnen acquire a dexterity of handling unintelligible
subjects, with a view only toconqueft. By this
means, eager disputants abandon the plain paths
of reason and truth, and wander into the fields of
imagination and conjecture. When men confine
their investigations to such points as admit of de
monstration, he who takes the light fide of the
quellion will, with equal abilities, put liisadver
fary to silence. The fubjetft will be ltripped of
all adventitious glare, and the light of truth will
ihine confpicuouily over error and sophistry. But
those, who dispute merely from the love of such
a practice, know too well that they ihould have
very little to do with reason and common sense.
It ihould be their main objeeft to elude the argu
ments of other people by the refinements of art
and evasion.
Discussion is no doubt an important medium of
inveiligating truth. It opens a spirit of enquiry
in the world, and excites, in cool, disinterested
men, a desire of coming at the real knowlege of
i'uch things, as are capable of being known. The
warm diiputants, however, only start the game.
The acquilition falls to men of candor and impar
tiality, who take the right track, and often over
take their objedt. It is easy to observe that the
rnoft violent disputes, that prevail among men, are
of such a nature, as cannot be reduced to a certain
ty. Many points of disputation are invelopedin
such unkown or remote contingencies, as elude
all the powers of investigation. After all the
discussion that can be had on foine subjects, truth
•will keep out of fight, and the point of debate
remain undetermined. If men however ma
nage their altercations with good humor and mo
deration, some benefit will result from them.—
Discussion gives scope to the imagination and ha
bituates the reasoning faculty to a dexterity in its
procefles.
No reflects more diflionor on hu
man nature, than the ill-will and persecutions,
that have been instigated by such disputes, as are
not only unimportant in tliemfelves, but utterly
incapable of being demonstrated- The periods
ofecclefiaftical contention draw over the charac
ter of man some of its darkest fliades. To a per
fbn of a liberal mind, it feemsan incredible thing
that a useless quellion, unattended with any ra
tional data of solution should throw whole cities,
dilVritfts and countries into broils, persecutions,
and wars.
Though a free fjjirit of enquiry iliould at all
times be tolerated, I would still recommend it to
prudent individuals to have little conneiftion with
those, who have the principal management of dis
putes. They are not the men, from whom truth
flows with purity and force. It is easy to per
ceive, that the originator of any system or ques
tion; will be apt to commence his enquiries with
an aim to victory. Truth is no further to be re
garded in his pursuit, than as it coincides with the
favorite doctrine under examination. The sys
tem must not yield to the dictates of reason j but
whenever they come in competition, reason must
be facrificed to system.
Lovers of altercation are not only to be ihunned
as bad guides in our researches after truth, but as
troublesome allbciates and dangerous friends. A
warm partizan eilimates the merit of his acquain
tance according as lie promotes or defeats the
fchcines he has in contemplation. As these
fche.mes generally will be wrong, his friend 111 ufl
either quarrel with him or participate iii his er
rors and quarrels.
AGAINST PRIVATEERING:
Or Rcafon's in support of ncvi proposed in
Treaties of Commerce, which may be formed by the
United States of America.
B? Dr. FRANKLIN.
BY the original la\v of nations, war and extir
pation were the punilhment of injury—Hu
manizing by degrees, it admitted slavery instead
of death : A farther Hep was the exchange of pri
soners,inftead of slavery : Another, to refpecft more
the property of private persons tinder conquest,
and be content with acquired dominion - —Why
fiiould not this law of nations go on improving ?
Ages have intervened between its several steps—
but as knowlegc of late increases rapidly, tV hv
lliotild not tliofe steps be quickened ? Why fhoulcl
it not be agreed lo as t!«e future law of nations
(iAncttc ; ~/?aX(xi i tcb irtfu to*.
WEDNESDAY, November ir, 1739
that in any war hereafter the following descrip
tions of men should be undisturbed—have the pro
tection of both fides, and be permitted to follow
their employments in security, viz.
1. Cultivators of the earth, because they labor
for the fubfifte nee of mankind.
0. Fiflieriren, for the fame reason.
3. Merchants and Traders, in un-armedJhips—
who accommodate different nations by communi
eating and exchanging the nefceilaries and con
veniences of life.
4. Artilts and mechanics, inhabiting and work
ing in open towns : It is hardly neceilary to add,
that the hospitals of enemies ihould be tinmoleft
ed—they ought to be alliiled. It is for the inter
est ofhutnanity ill general, that the occasions of
war, and the inducements to it ihould be diminish*
ed. II rapine is aboliilied, one of the encourage
ments to war is taken away, and peace therefore
more likely to continue and be lasting.
The practice of robbing merchants on the high
seas, a remnant of the ancient piracy, tho it may
be accidentally beneficial to particular persons,
is far from being profitable to all engaged in it,
or tothe nation that authorises it : In the begin
ingof awar fomerich iliips, notupon their guard,
are surprized and taken—This encourages the
firft adventurers to fit out more armed vefiels,
and many others to do the fame : But the enemy
attlie fame time become more careful—arm their
merchant ihips better, and render them not so
easy to be taken ; they go also more under the
protection of convoys : Tlius, while the priva
teers to take them are multiplied, the veflels fub
jeCtto be taken, and the chances t>f profit, are di
miniihed, so that many cruises are made wherein
the expences overgo the gains—and as it is the
cafe in other lotteries, tho particulars have got
prizes, the mass of adventurers are losers, the
whole expence of siting out all the privateers
during a war, being much greater than the whole
amount of goods taken.
Then there is the national loss of all the labor
of so many men, during the time they have been
employed in robbing—who besides spend what
they get in riot, drunkenness and debauchery—
lose their habits ofinduftry—are rarely fit for any
foberbufinefs after a peace, and serve only toin
creafe the number of highwaymen and lioufe
breakers.—Even the undertakers who have been
fortunate, are by sudden wealth led into expend ve
living, the habit of which continues, when the
means of supporting it cease, and finally ruins
them A just punifliment for their having wan
tonly and unfeelingly ruined many honest, inno
cent traders and their families, whose substance
was employed in serving the common interest of
mankind. B. F.
THE OBSERVER. No. IV.
The people have fi/jjtred an'tmmenfe sum by the deran
ged /late of the national debt.
AFTER all that the public have fuffercd by the
confufion of finance in the union and seve
ral states, it is not strange that their patience is
nearly exhausted. The want of a general go
vernment hath cost millions to the people, which
are now very happily lhared and enjoyed among
a let of people who have been very Icrupulous
about liberty, the collectors of the taxes you have
paid, and speculators in your disordered funds.
It is time the truth fliould be fairly spoken to
the people at large, and the Observer will do it
whatever may be the consequence. Some of the
fame scrupulous people now wish to play over the
old game, and fill you with jealousies that they
may have a second liarveft ; but \heir day ispali.
For our ownprefervation it is neceflary we should
attendto the sources of pad confufion. By the
national debt I mean all those funis which the
union at large, and the particular States Hand
obligated to pay. Tliefe funis were incurred in
one common cause, Our defence in the general
war—it was chance and not option which fixed
men's names to the lift of Continental or State
creditors.
The general idea is a true one, that the whole
must stand or fall together, and most people had
little preference to either kind of fecurily. There
is not at present any reason in equity why one
class of creditors Ihould be prefered to the other
—the whole ought to stand 011 the fame funds,
and have equal justice. Soon after the war a new
constitution of government was found neceflary
to set things right, but at that juncture the coun
try was not fufficiently enlightened to obtain it.
The consequence was, the continent without any
power of creating funds, began in a desultory
manner to arrange their own finances. The
several Statesfinding the weakness of the union,
began to make partial arrangements for that very
..debt, which 011 every principle of justice ought.
f Publijhed on Wednesday and Saturday .J
to be fuftainedby the whole iiation. Such reme
dies as tliefe, adopted by different bodies of men,
and at distant places and very different tinies,
mull in their nature be different and confafed.
From this source yoti have feeri more than fifty
i kinds of paper securities, at one time, within
the United States, differing but a small matterin
lvalue, but enough to spread confufion over the
whole, and betray the honell into the hdnds of
designing men. The people liavfe paid enough
to make the creditors had it come to
their hands ia a regular and equal method ; but
in the midst of this darkness nothing has been ef
fected. The members of the old Congress, and
of your aflemblies, were men of. wisdom, but
what conld wisdom do in such different and dis
tant bodies, which had no conllitutional connec
tion, and of course conld have no general system.
Matters of this kind cannot be planned in a nu
merous body of men, be they erer so wife. A
treasury board of proper convpafs, system atically
arranged, and furniflied with information, mult
concert ; and the legiflatnre after proper discus
sions mult give the authority to executc.
The firft flep towards order and light is to re
duce the whole national debt to one kind, and
onefetof regulations, and unless something of
this nature takes place, you have millions more
to pay without coming any nearer to the desired
end. It is impossible that a plain man, who is an
industrious and good fubjecft, should diftinguifli
between so many kinds of taxes of different val
ues. I.et the whole sum of this debt be brought
together—placed on common and fiinilar funds,
and regularity introduced to the business—the
public will then know their fitnation—thirty men
will do that business for the whole union which
now employs thro' the fe-.'eral States two hun
dred and fifty, all of whom are supported by the
people—The creditors will understand a plain and
honest plan, and be saved from a thousand iin
pofitions—taxes will be of one kind, andtheman
who purchases to pay them will know the price
he ought to give. I can forefce there will |be
objections to wliat I advance, and fomevery cun
ning men will cry danger ! danger ! but I never
yet saw any evil from Amplifying money matters,
where all the people have to pay. It is the roll
ing up together of a number of half madefyfteins,
which endangers the people ; for they cannot fee
thro' them, and the man that mufl borrow his
neighbours wits to manage his own affairs, mufl
soon borrow money to pay his debts. The pre
sent is a fortunate moment for this country, and
the only one they will ever have to Amplify their
treasury matters. , Let one great ana inclusive
system for the whole be adopted, and your finan
ces may soon be reduced to perfect order. Should
the present bpportunity be past and the federal
system not takfc in the whole of your national
clebt, another opportunity uiuft not be expected
—confufion will continue—- the poor and unsus
picious will be cheated—jealousy will pervade all
orders of citizens—there will be no public faith,
and your monied men will hide their property —
a liable medium for business will be severely want
ed—and your future agriculture, manufactures
and commerct, be denied that spring which
might now be givfeh them.
P. S. In the second number of this paper, some
observations were made, on the compensation, the gen
tlemen oj Congress have voted themfelves —I think th:
public mind mufl be easy on this fubjeCi, when it is un
der flood that the pay they have taken, is not greater
than was allowed by the State assemblies to the mem
bers of the eld Congress—take the State of Connec
ticut for an example—The atfembly of this State until
May 178 7, allowed their delegate/ three dollars per
diem and their expences—the expences of the delegates
were different and from two to four dollars per diem
—probably the average of expences was three dollars,
which added to the compensation for services, makes
the sum now given to the Representatives. Since May
1787, the aljembly of ConneClicut have allowed five
dollars per diem for service and expences. The al
lowance given by Connetticut, was much smaller than
in most of the other States—l am informed that the a
verage allowance made, by the\affemb'lies of the thirteen
States to their delegates, used to be eight dollars per
diem, nearly, one fourth more than the gentlemen have
allowed themfelves —the members might then if they
pleased, take a feat and continue under pay the whole
year ; now it will be but a small part of the year—
then they might leave Congress when private business
called them ; now they are constrained by authority to
be present, let their own concerns be ever so urge?.t
—then they 7night and actually did hold offices of pro
fit under their own States ; now it is the popular sense
they should .7at, and many in confeauence have made
a great facrifice. These fatts mufl jujlify the prefect
comper Cation.
\ From the AMERICAN MERCURY."]LONDON, August 15.
In Germany an excellent and clieap dye has
been invented, adapted to woolen and cotton ma
nufactures ; it consists chiefly of the feeds of the
red Trefoil, a plant very common in this coun
try, and employed to feed horses, &c. A decoc
tion of these feeds is mixed withdifFerent mineral
jubilances, and the dyes produced are very beau
tiful, and of a great variety; amongst which are
yellows and greens of different shades, as also cit
ron and orange colours. These dyes reiiit the ac
tion of the substances with which trials are ufu
•ally made much better than common dyes, and
promise many advantages, if adopted, to the
manwfatftures of this country.
Some days before the taking of the Baftile, the
King laid to the Duke of Orleans, who had come
to pay his Majesty a vifu—" You dffire my head
you are a iecond Cromwell—retire from my
presence." The Duke bowed, and obeyed, only
faying as he weut out, " In a fewdaysyour Ma
}esty will have a more just opinion of my charac
ter. You will be better informed." Since which
his Majesty has aiked the Duke's pardon.
Almost every letter from America, is full of the
poverty, distress, and misery of her citizens, and
several well informed Republicans do notfcruple
to aflert, that one of the firft a<fts of the fede
ral Government must and -will certainly be, an
earnest application to Great Britain for some small
jhare in the Wett-lndia commerce, the loss of
which the Americans now feel, with the molt
painful regret. ( A lie—paid for.)
St. JOHN's, (Antigua) September 8.
WE are informed by a correspondent, that the
unfortunate Count Lowendahl, who, in a fit of
pailion, lately (hot his servant in Paris, for some
frivolous neglecft, was condemned to have his
head cut off, and that the sentence has been exe
cuted.
The King, understanding the sentence was to
be carried intoeffed: in a few hours, shut himfelf
up in his closer, and would admit 110 person to an
audience, till the fatal blow was given.—Thus
was an end put to the life of one of the braveit
and inoft amiable men in France, and we are
sorry to observe, that the crime for which he fuf
fereddoes not permit us to lament his fate. How
unfortunate the frenzy that propelled such aman
to so dreadful an a<ftion ! He served in the late
war as Colonel Commandant of the regiment of
Arinagnac, and was third in command attheun
fuccefsful attempt made on St. Lucia, which end
ed so much to the honour of Gen. Meadows, for
his gallant repulsion of the enemy. In this ac
tion Count Lowendalil's regiment was cut almost
to pieces. His father was the famous engineer
who conducted the [liege, and carried Bergenop
zoom. It is imagined some disappointment at
play, or a love affair, had influence on his mind at
the time he committed the raih and melancholy
a<St, for which society is now deprived of so very
great a character, as this unfortunate officer was,
in every other point of view. He had the rank
of Lieutenant General at his death.
St. GEORGE's (Bermuda) Sept. ij.
Extract of a litter from a gentleman in Martinique,
to his correspondent in ibis town, dated Sept. 20.
The spirit of liberty seems to fpreacl fail here
—forty young gentlemen appeared at the last
Opera with cockades worn by the Tiers Etat in
their hats, and government did not attempt to
take any notice of it. The negroes that attempt
ed to revolt are not yet quelled entirely. A plot
truly diabolical was formed amongst the house
servants in town to poison the water jars and soup
on the fame day, which was fixed for to-morrow.
Happily it has been discovered and every poflible
precaution taken in consequence.
Another letter mentions, that one of the infer
nal contrivers of this horrid plot had been taken
with a large quantity of the deleterious ingredi
ent upon him, adofe of which he instantly fvval
lowed, that immediately put an end to his exist
ence, and prevented that severe and exemplary
death which he would otherwise have fuffered
by the hand of justice. But his body was drag
ged through the streets, and treated with every
other mark of ignominy, which detestation or
which just resentment could inspire.
CHARLESTON, O&ober 24.
A letter from the Gov. of North Carolina, to a
gentleman in this city, mentions, that from the
returns he had received of the elections for mem
bers of the Convention, the friends of the Union
might entertain themoft flattering hopes of that
State's soon adopting the Constitution.
Extraff of a letter from Augujla, Sept. 19.
Oil Tuesday evening last arrived at this place,
the Hon. Benjamin Lincoln, Cyrus Griffin, and
David Humphreys, Efq'rs, Commiflioners Plenipo
tentiary for negociating treaties with the Indian
tribes south of the Ohio, 011 their way to the
Rock Landing, to conclude the treaty with the
Creeks. Afcer some comfhunications with the
Executive, they took an early dinner with his
Honor the Governor, and proceeded about three
o'clock yetterday afternoon. From appointments
so rcfpeifta'ole and confidential, we have tlie bcfc
founded hopes of a fubltantial and jult peace, and
we feel it as a favorable feature already impreHing
in the dawnings of the new government. 1 hey
were escorted out of town byCapt Watkins, and
a number of refpecftable gentlemen.
The arrival of Gen. Lincoln in this frontier ot
the southern department has given universal plea
sure, in which he was equally distinguished by
his merits and services, under every, adverlity and
difficulty in the late war. Nothing could have
been more apt, or' so confidential as his present
appointment.
FROM THE MASSACHUSETTS CEKTINEL.
Written at the Entry of THE PRESIDENT of the
United States into the toivn ej Bojlon, Oilober 24,
1789. ,
DID human eye e'er fee so fair a day !
Behold thy Genius, Freedom ! lead the way.
Rude Kings of old did ruffian armies wait.
And swell with barb'rous port the pomp ot ftatc ;
While the proud car, bedeck'd with guilty gold,
On Fa eedom's writhing neck triumphant roll'd :
The nobles proud, who led the gorgeous train,
Wore Slavery's badge and drew a gilded chain :
While the loud shouts that piere'd the troubled air,
The tongue of nations, only trill'd with fear :
The eye adoring scarce could check its flow,
For all their trophies fwell'd on human woe.
The tracks of triumph thus the nations trod,
And thought the fov'reign power deriv'd from GOD.
Hence o'er the hilloric roll v» hat hateful crimes
Were wrought the model of fuccecding times ?
Rut now fair LibertV illumes the age,
And reason tints Renown's Recording page —
Blots trom her eye the fierce barbarian's name,
And even Cctfar blurs the page of lame.
Who wrought the wond'rous change, what pow'r divine ?
The wond'roub change, O Washi ngtoh was thine !
'Tis your own jera ! grace the radient page,
The fodering Father of the filial age !
Thou too, illudrious Hancock ! by his fide
In every lowering hoilr of danger try'd,
With him conspicuous o'er the beamy page,
Dc lcend the theme ot every future age.
When fird the sword of early war we drew,
The King presaging fix'd his eye on you ;
'Twasyour dread finger prefs'd the (acred seal,
Whence rose to fov'reign power the public weal.
Then WASHINGTON, O dearly honor'd name!
From callow youth the favorite of fame!
When hov'ring navies, (haughty Albion's boast,)
Pour'd their proud armies o'er the trembling coad,
Your country beck'd you from the rural bower,
And nerv'd your mighty arm with all her power.
The tyrant saw, and uck'ning at the view,
In fancy bid his frantic hopes adieu.
But, prompt byfate, {till bad his armies dare,
Blew the vain trump and wag'd abortive war,
At length you drew the tyrant from his throne,
And bad his seal yotlr course of glory crown.
Wh£n polifh'd Wisdom feem'd her feats to fly,
On thee again the public cad her eye —
How rose the Model from your forming hand !
The proud palladium of our happy land !
Ah ! gentle parent of the cradled States,
On whofefond eye an infant nation waits ;
While now affection seems your step to day,
And swarming coticourfe choaks your lab'ring way—
Perhaps, among the loud-acclaiming throng,
Your ear may touch the Muse's transient song.
The high-born Muse, from adulation free,
Attunes, O ! CHIEF! her haughty lyre to thee.
No vulgar theme cbuld ever tempt her drain,
Perhaps the prouded of the tuneful train.
Seclude from busy life her hours are led,
And her lone deps the fliade of Science tread*
Her years revolving roll a playful flow,
Nor ever care o'erhung the Muse's brow.
From her recess,. where her own roses twine,
How oft her fancy drew a form like thine:
Ere morning wak'd,fhe wing'd her early way,
To hail the dawn of this auspicious day.
ODE to THE PRESIDENT.
By a Lady.
THE season sheds its milded ray*
O'er the blue waves the play ;
The bending harved gilds the plain,
The towering veffcls press the main :
The ruddy ploughman quits his toil,
The pallid miser leaves his spoil,
And grateful Paeans hail the (miling year,
Which bids Columbia's guardian Chief appear.
Hence! Disappointment's anxious eye,
And pale affli&ion's lingering sigh !
Let beaming Hope the brow adorn,
And every heart forget to mourn ;
Let smiles of Peace their charms display,
To grace this joy-devoted day :
And where that arm preferv'd the peopled plain*
Shall mild Contentmeut hold her placid reign.
Let " white rob'd choirs 1 ' in beauty gay,
With lucid flowrets drew the way ;
Let roses deck the scented lawn,
And Lilachs lift their purple form;
Let Domes in circling honors spread,
And wreaths adorn that glorious head ;
To thee, GREAT WASHINGTON, eaeh lyre be strung !
Thy matchless deeds by every Bard be sung !
When Freedofn rais'd her drooping head,
Thy arm her willing heroes led ;
And when her hopes, to thee refign'd,
Were reding on thy God-like mind,
How did that bread, to fear unknown 9
And feeling for her fate alone,
O'er Danger's threat'nirig form the Faulchion wield,
And tread with dauntlefsdep the crimfon'd field.
Not Dec 1 us—for his country slain,
Not Cincinnati;?—deathlefs name !
Cami l lus—who could wrongs despise,
And, {corning wealth, to glory rife,
Could (uc'h exalted worth display,
Or shine with such unclouded ray :
Of Acre the Hope, of Youth the leading Star,
THE SOUL OF PEACE,THE CONQUERING ARM OF
WAR,
RICHMOND, OAobei- 23.
We are informed that a joint committee ol'di"
two Houles, is appointed to prepare an Add re ll
to The President of the United States. We alf>
learn that a proportion is depending before th-
Honorable Houi'e of Delagates, to feledt and en
ac!t as Laws of this Commonwealth, all the Pen-;!
Statutes of Great-Britain, now in force iuth'
Commonwealth.
We learn that the bufinefsof the Chiefs of the
Chicafaw l.ation to Congress, was, torequeftthev
would furnifh them with a quantity of powder
lead and arms, to enable them to go to war wit;!
foine other tribe which had been troublefometo
them. Finding that Congress had adjourned
they have applied to our Aflenibly, who have com:
to a resolution to grant thein a supply of powder
and lead, which we hope they will use towards
the protection of our foutliern brethren.
PHILADELPHIA, November 5.
The ladies in France are not idle fpec'tator;
of the grand revolution now accoinplifhm •
They have distinguished themselves not merelvbr
the love of liberty, but by their intelligence in
developing its beauties. One ofthe moftenlighi
ened elfays 011 a declaration ofthe rights of mar,
has come from the pen of the acconipliihed and
illustrious Mademoiselle de Keralio, Member of
the Academy of Arras, and of the Patriotic So
ciety of Bretons.
Extra ft of a letter frntu Grexuda, Sept. 2'l
There has been an infurret'iion in Martinique,
They have hanged and broke upon the wheel a
bove fifty ; and within thefefew days it lias been
iifcovered that the Negroes at Martinique, fay
St. Pierre, had poflefled themselves of large quan
tities of poison, and intended to poison all the
white inhabitants. It was only discovered two
days before this plot was to be put into execution.
But what is still more alarming than all this, is,
the Governor of 1 rinidad has lately publilhed an
ordinance, that all slaves coming there, or on
any of the Spanilli dominions shall be free. This
ordinance has giver- the inhabitants of this iiland
very much uneasiness, indeed so much so, that
the grand jury petitioned the Governor to call the
Legislature together, which has not yet been
done.
The alarm is such, that the inhabitants of St.
Mark's parish patrole every night from the fitting,
of the fun to the riling of it. There are two
armed veflels with soldiers on board cruising, one
to leeward, the other to windward, if poilible,
to prevent the slaves going off. From these cir
cumstances 1 leave you to judge the situation we
are in.
General Assembly, November 2.
The House proceeded to the ele&ion of a Speak
er ; and the ballots being taken, it appeared that
the Hon. Richard Peters, Esq. was unaniraoufly
ele<sled.
Mr. Speaker being placed in the chair—
A motion was made by Mr. Lewis, fecondedby
Mr. Wright, that the oaths or affirmations pre
scribed by the constitution of this State, be taken
by the members of the House refpeiftively, with
the words " except so far as the fame is altered
or abolished by the constitution of the United
States," added to the oath or affirmation of alle
giance and fidelity, and the words, " and as the
fame is not altered or abolished by the constitu
tion of the United States," added to the oathor
affirmation of office—the said exception and ad
dition being considered as explanatory of the
fenfein which members understand the laid oaths
or affirmations.
And the aforefaid motion being adopted,
Mr. Speaker and the members prefentwerele
verally qualified according to the directions 0
the constitution, with the foregoing exceptions
and additions, and the adt of the United States
palled the firft day of Junelaft.
BOS TON, Saturday, October 3 1 -
On Tuesday last, the Society of theCiNCis-
N ati of this Commonwealth, accompanied In t e
Viscount de Ponteves, Marquis de Traverse
and Chevalier de Braye,members of the Society
in France, waited on THE PRESIDENT ort
United States with the following Address. 1
Marquis de Gallissoniere was unable to a
tend by reason of licknefs.
To the PRESIDENT ofthe UNITED STAT
SIR, . r
AMIDST the various gratulations winch yo
arrival in this metropolis has oecafione ,p
mit us, the Members of the Society of the
nati in this Commonwealth, moll refpe<ct u .
aflure you of the ardor of esteem and a el
which you have so indelibly fixed in out |C
as our glorious leader in war, and illustrious
amplar in peace. t ] ie
After thefolemn and endearing farewe . 1
banks of the Hudson, which our anxiety ps n .
as final, most peculiarly pleafingis the pre L . a .
expecfted meeting.—On this occasion we cal r to il
void the recollecflion of the various frer.es
and danger through which you conducte 11
while we contemplate the trying P eno "': (1 ; ce to
war, and the triumphs of peace, v - eTC ;' • 3 ;"
behold you, induced by the unanimousyour country, entering upon other trials, and
other services alike important, and, in Some points
of view, equally hazardous. For the completion
of the great purposes which a grateful count iy
has alfigned you, long, very long, may your in
valuable life be prelerved. And as an admir
ing world, while considering you as a Soldier have
Jong wanted a comparison, may your virtue and
talents as a stateSman leave them without a pa
rallel.
It is not in words to exprcfs an attachment
founded like ours. We can only fay, that when
soldiers, our greatest pride was a promptitude of
obedience to your orders—as citizens, our Su
preme ambition is to maintain the character of
firm supporters of that noble fabrick of federal
government, over which you preside.
As Members of the Society of the Cincinnati,
it will be our endeavour ro cherilh tliofe sacred
principles of charity and paternal attachment
which our institution inculcates. And while our
conduct is thus regulated, we can never want the
patronage of the firft of patriots and the bell of
men. W. EUSTIS, Vice-Prefident.
BoJloii, OH.. 27, 1789.
To the MEMBERS of the SOCIETY oj the CIN
CINNATI, in the Commonwealth of' MAS
SACHUSETTS,
Gentlemen,
IN reciprocating with gratitude and sincerity
the multiplied and affecting gratulations of my
fellow-citizens of this Commonwealth, they will
all of them with juflice allow me to fay that
none can be dearer to me than the affectionate
aflurances which you have expreiled.—Dear in
deed is the occasion which restores an intercourse
with my faithful aflociatesin prosperous and ad
verse fortune—and enhanced are the triumphs
of peace, participated with those whose virtue
and valour so largely contributed to procure them.
To that virtue and valour your country has con
fefled her obligations : Be mine the grateful talk
to add the telfimony of a connection, which it
was my pride to own in the field, and it is now my
happinels to acknowledge in the enjoyments of
peace and freedom.
Regulating yonr conduct by those principles
which have heretofore governed your actions as
men, soldiers and citizens—you will repeat the
obligations conferred on your country, and you
will tranSmit to poflerity an example which must
command their admiration and obtain their grate
ful praise. Long may you continue to enjoy the
endearments of paternal attachment, and the
heartfelt liappinefs of reflecting that you have
faithfully done your duty.
While I am permitted to pofiefs the conlciouS
nefs of that worth which has long bound me to
you by every tie of affection and elteem, I will
continue to be your Sincere and faithful friend.
G. WASHINGTON.
80/lon, OH. 27, 1789.
On Wednesday last THE PRESIDENT of the
United States, dined with the Hon. Mr. Bow-
Co in, at his Seat.
Departure of the PRESIDENT.
On ThurSday morning at eight o'clock THE
PRESIDENT of the United States fat out from
his residence in Court-Street, on his journey east
ward, eScorted by Major Gibb's horSe, and ac
companied by a large number oS citizens and o
thers, on horSeback, and in carriages, among
whom were the Adjutant-General, Capt. Li nzee,
Col. Green, and other officers of the Bolton Re
giment. On palling Charles river bridge, which
was finely decorated with flags of all Nations,
and of the conflrucftion of which he was plealed
to expreSs his approbation, he was Saluted by a
discharge oS 11 guus, from Capt. Calder's ar
tillery polled on the celebrated heights of Charlef
town. At Cambridge he was received inthePhi
loSophy-Room oS the UniverSity, by the Presi
dent and Corporation, and aSter breakfafling, he
viewed the Library, Museum, &c. He then con
tinued his journey, having halted for a few mi
mites at Lynn, the gentlemen who were in car
riages took their leave. The escort being join
ed by Capt. Osgood's company of horse, The
President proceeded to Marblehead, where he din
ed with General Glover.—After viewing the
town he Sat out Sor Salem, at the entrance oS
which he was met by a Committee, who conduct
ed him into town, where he reviewed two re
giments of General Fisk's brigade, and leveral
independent corps. From the field of review, he
was eScorted by the Independent Cadets, and
followed by the principal inhabitants in Procef-
Sion, to the Court HouSe, into the balcony oS
which he was conducted by the Hon. Mr. Good
hue. Contiguous to the Court HouSe, a tem
porary gallery was erected, covered with rich
I'erfian carpets, and decorated with damalk cur
tains, Srom which a choir oS lingers ialuted their
illustrious visitant with an Ode adapted to the oc
caSion. After this, the Hon. Mr.GoodhUE, Chair
man of the Committee of the town, preSented
the President with an Addrels, and received from
him his answer, in the presence of the aflem
bled citizens, who amounted to Several tliou
'•-inds, and who rent the air with their acclama
'■ions. The Prefiucu:-. eScorted as before, then
proceeded to the lioufe prepared for his reception,
and in the evening, honored the Aflembly with
his company, where a brilliant circle exhibited a
fine specimen of the taile, elegance and beauty of
the ladies of Salem.
In the evening the Court-Hdufe was brilliant
ly illuminated, and a number of liandfome fire
works let off.
Yeiterday morning, at 8 oclock, the President
fat out from Salem, escorted by Capt. Oscood's
horse, and breakfafted with the Hon. Mr. Cabot
in Beverly—at which place he viewed the Cotton
manufactory, and then continued his journey.
she corps of horse of Andover under Capt.
Osgood, which joined the Prefldent's escort at
Lynn, on Thursday, consisted of upwards of jo
men—in red uniform faced with green.
It is said, that President Sullivan, of New-
Hampshire, will meet the President of the Unit
ed States at the line of his State, with 600 cavalry.
Not confined to the male creation are the
testimonials of refpe<ft paid to the illultrious PRE
SIDEN I of the United States—The ladies have
invented sashes on which the bald-eagle of the
Union, and G. W r . hold conspicuous places; and
at the Oratorio on Tuesday, the Marcliionefs Tra
versay, exhibited on the bandeau of her hat the
G. W. and the Eagle let in brilliants 011 a black
velvet groundi
By a Gentleman from Newbnry-Port we are iii
fof med, that the Pre si d ent of the United States
arrived there 011 Friday last, about half past three
o'clock, P. M. escorted by the Troop of Horse be
longing to Ipswich and Wenham, and the Troop
from Andover and Haverhill—He was met by the
Selectmen at the entranceof the town, and palled
in, preceded by four companies of the Militia—
the company of artillery—the gentlemen Select
men—the MarJhal of thediftricftofMaflachufetts,
—then THE PRESIDENT and his Suite—After
which followed a very refpedtable. procession of
the citizens, and the two troops df horse. Every
part was conduced with the greatest order and
decency—ln the evening were fire-works, &c.—
He was to leave the town for Portfmoutli on Sa
turday morning.
PROVIDENCE October 31.
Theilluftrious President of the United States
set out from Boflon for Portsmouth on Thursday
last. We learn that he proposes visiting the State
of Vermont, and returning to New-York byway
of Albany.
NEW-YORK, NOVEMBER 11.
Altlio the public is disappointed in the main
obje(ft for which the Conimiilioners went to treat
with the Southern Indians, yet, we hear, that
they have concluded a truce with them for a num
ber of months : And as the Indians in general
discovered a pacific temper, it is to be hoped that
a permanent peace may be soon fettled.
Yesterday arrived the fcliooner Jenny, Captain
Scliermehorn, from Savanna, In whom came pas
sengers, Capt. Burbeck and the whole of his
conipanyof matrofles. By the latest accounts the
Cominiltioners were at Petersburg, on their re
turn to this city.
The question for calling a convention todeli
berate on the constitution of the United States
was loft in the Aflembly ofßhode Island by a ma
jority of 22, the 29th ult.
The Legislatures of Virginia, and Pennsylva
nia, are now in session.
The General Aflembly of Delaware is adjourn
ed to the 4th of January next.
The Legislature of Rhode Island has appoint
ed the 26th instant to be observed as a day of
Thanksgiving in that State.
The Supreme Executives of South Carolina and
Pennsylvania, have directed that Thursday the
26th instant be observed as a day of Thanksgiving
in those States agreeable to the Proclamation of
the President of the United States.
On Sunday next the 15th inft. a CHARITY
SERMON,wiII be preached,and a Collection made
in the forenoon, at St. George's Chapel, for the
benefit of the Charity School in this city.—
An ANTHEM, adapted to the occasion will be
sung by the Scholars.
It is really curious to hesLr some persons talk
of the liappinefs and prosperity of the United
States: If they depreciate their own government
—If they stint their public officers to a pittance,
and treat them as menial fervants—lf they keep
up a perpetual flame of jealousy and ill nature—
and sow the feeds of disunion between the State
and general governments —If they express their
approbation of their patriots by reserve and jileiicc,
Why then " the United States bid fair to fiourifh
more than any other nation upon earth, and the
people to be the happiest," butif they fondlypleafe
themselves with the idea of having the belt form
of government thatthe world hath ever known—
If they suppose that independency and responsi
bility should unite in their public officers, and
that they ought to honor those who have eviden
ced their wisdom and patriotifm—lf the princi
ples of confidence and union are considered asthe
foundation of peace and fecurity—lf the people
express their feelings, their refpetl and venera
tion in their mother tongue, in plain, common,
and intelligible language, for the illustrious Sa
viour ot their county —if they,in the abundance
of their gratitude, give a i'cope to their feelings
in the in oft unequivocal demoilftrations of public
affection and attachment.—" They open the door
for luxury ' —They exhibit " the parade of fools" —
1 hey inlult thole whom they mean to honor—
" 1 tie) dilgult the President," and violate " the
laws and constitution of their country."—What
jargon and inconiiftency. The truth is, the ho
nors of our country beitowed upon the govern
ment, and tliofe who aduiinifter it> are daggers to
the boforn of the envious and disappointed.
The proposition tb express our approbation of
the Prelidentof the United States, by" reserved
attention and si lent affetiion," is Itrongly tinctured
with the I urkifh policy of employing mutes—
What! lhall we feet, and not express our feel*
ings !—lndignant idea !
" 1 lie happiness or wretchedness of human life
does not io much depend on tiie loss or acquilition
ot real advantages, as on the Hutftuating opinions
and imaginations of men." We are often in pof
leflion ot lolid blelfings without properly realizing
their nature and value : Life and liberty are too
common enjoyments to be suitably prized—but let
the former be endangered by a tllreatning mala
dy, or the latter wrested from us, and how alive
will our sensations be But does sickness, or
power boast a transfering influence, and render
those enjoyments valuable in their nature, which
were not always so By no means—lt is our opin
ions, and imaginations that are hereby affetfted—
they place objects in a different point of view, as
they are moreor less influenced by circumstances.
Did reason, and common sense always give the
tone to our fancies, and estimation, those things
which are inrrinlically eitimable, would always
appear in their proper colors : In a state of peace,
and security, and enjoying the blelfings of good
government, people are apt to grow remiss and
iufenlible of the eligibility of their lituation ; but
when the arbitrary Itrides of despotism on the
oneliand, or the intrigues of faction on the other,
threaten to disturb their tranquility, or infringe
their privileges, what different ideas immediate
ly occupy the public mind !
What are the triumphs of theCa/arj andAlexan
ders,which swell the hiltoric page, and depiift hu
man wcaknefs, ignorance and folly, compared to
the approbation of a free, and an intelligent
people, bellowed for atts of real virtue and bene
volence, on the patriots, the friends of human
kind ? The sword of America was not unsheathed
for conquest, or to extend the circle of human mi
sery—All that was dear, and invaluable, was at
ftake—lt was thecaule of liberty and justice—the
cause of virtue and humanity Heaven never
deserted such a cause—it smiled on our arms —
viitory and independence were the crown of our
enterprizes—and whatever some may now think or
fay of those who conducted our arms, who in the
midst of difficulties, dangers, and success, were
firm, intrepid, and temperate—who united with
the befl traits of the soldier's character, the bejl
virtues of the citizen—and on all occasions paid a
sacred regard to social rights, the timeffiall come
when the full tide of applause lhall roll over their
memories, while cotemporary envy, spleen, and
disappointment, shall go down the stream of ob
livion.
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK.
Tuesday Sloop Catherine, Snell, Chailefton, 6 days.
Brig Brothers, Pinkman, London, 63 days
Schooner Hope, Clarke, Cape Francois, 23 days.
Sloop Jenny, Schermehorn, Savannah.
Shooner Sally and Betsey, Wa'.lau, Eden ton, 8 days.
PL A ISTER OF PARIS.
Copy of a letter from Mr. Henry W\nkoop, ofV reden Ho]f, Bucks County,
Pennsylvania, 13th Augujl, 1787, to the President of the Agricul
tural Society at Philadelphia.
SIR,
CONSIDERING of the utility of the Plaifter of Paris as a
grass manure, I communicate to you for the information of
the Society, an experiment which I lately made. 111 the month of
March lad, as soon as the snow -was off the ground, and it so fet
tled as to bear walking upon the furface, I spread eight bulhels of
the Plaifter of Paris upon two and a half acres of wheat stubble
ground, which had been sown the spring before (in common with
the reft of the field) with about two pounds of red clover feed
for pasture ; this spot yielded about the middle of June five tons
of hay. A small piece of ground within the enclosure, and of
similar quality, having been left unfprcad withthe plaifter,afford
ed an opportunity of diftinguilhing the effe&s of plaifter of Paris
as a manure; for from the produce of the latter, there was good
reason to judge that my piece of clover, without the afliftancc
of the plaifter, might have yielded one and a half tons of hay;
so that the eight bushels of pulverized stone must have occasioned
an increase of three and a half tons of hay upon two and a half
acres of ground, in addition to which it is now covered, to ap
pearance, with two and three tons fit for the scythe. This
foil has been in course of tillage about fifty years, and never had
any dung or manure upon it, but yet was what might be called
good wheat land. As the effects of the plaifter were thus power
ful upon such kind of ground, there is good reason to conclude
they wonld be much greater upon a foil previously manured.
With due refpe£t, I am, Sec.
(Signed) HENRY WYNKOOP.
The President of the Agricultural Society in Philadelphia.
I do hereby ccrtify, that the above named Henry Wynkoop is
a person of undoubted good character and worthy of credit ; and
I do tcftify, that Plaifter of Paris is much used as a
manure in the neighborhood of Philadelphia, and that it is gene
rally held in high estimation by those who have tried it as a ma
rt it. (Signed) SAMUEL POWELL, President
of the Agricultural Society.
Phi<jdelpkie : June 30. : -80.Remainder of the JUDICIAL ACT.
(Begun in our laj}.)
AND be it further enaflfd, That it shall be the duty of circuit
courts, in causes in equity and of admiralty and maritime jurif
didtion, to cause the fadls on which they found their sentence or
decree,tully to appear upon the record either fronvtheir pleadings
and decree ltfelf, or a state of the cafe agreed by the parties, or
their council, or if they disagree, by a fluting of the cafe by the
court.
And be it further enaftcd, That where in a circuit couit, a plain
tiff in anadtion, originally brought there, or a petitioner in equity,
other than the United States, recovers less than the sum or value
of five hundred dollars, or a libellant, upon his own appeal, less
than the sum or value of three hundred dollars, he lhall not be al
lowed, but at the difcrction of the court, may be adjudged to pay
coils.
And be it further enaEled, That from final decrees in a diftridl
court in daufes of admiralty and maritime jurildidlion, where the
matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value ot three hundred dol
lars, exclusive of coils an appeal (hall be allowed to the next cir
cuit court, to be held in such di ft rift. Provided, nevertheless, that
such appeals from final decreesas aforefaid, from the diftridl court
of Maine, shall be made to the circuit court next to be holden after
each appeal in the diftridl of Maflachufctts.
Aud be it further enafled, That final decrees and judgments in
civil adlions in a diftridl court, where the matter in dispute ex
ceeds the fumorvalue of fifty dollars, exclusive of costs, maybe
re-examined, and reversed or affirmed in the circuit court, holden
in the fame diftridf, upon a writ of error, whereto (hall be annexe#
and returned therewith at the day and place therein mentioned,
an authenticated tranfeript of the record, and alignment of errors,
and prayer for reversal, with a citation to the adverse party, signed
by the judge of such did rift court, or a justice of the Supreme Court,
the adverle party having at leall twenty days notice, And upon
a like process, may final judgments and decrees in c vil adlions,
and suits in equity in a circuit couit, brought there by original pro
cess, or removed there from courts of the fever a I States, or remov
ed there by appeal from a diftridl court where the matter in dis
pute excecds the sum or value of two thousand dolUis, exclulive
of costs, be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme
Court, the citation being in luch cafe finned by a judge of such
circuit court, or justice of the Supreme Court, and the adverse
party having at lealt thirty days notice. But there lhall be no rc
vei sal in either court on such writ of cuor for error in ruling any
plea in abatement,other than a plea tothe jurifdidlion of the court,
or i'uch plea to a petition or bill in equity, as in the nature of a
demurrer, or for any error in fadl. And writs of error (hall not
be brought but within five years after rendering or parting the judg
ment or decree complaincd of, 01 in cafe the person entitled to such
writ of error be an infant./fW-r covert, von combos mentis, or imprifon
ed,then within five years as aforefaid, exclusive of the time of such
disability. And evei v justice or judge liguing a citation on any
writ of error as aforefaid, shall take good and fufiicicnt security,
that the plaintiff in error lhall prosecute his writ to cffedl, and an
swer all damages and costs if he fail to make his plea good.
And be it Jurtherrratledf Tha: a writ of error as afore said shall be
afuperfedi i 3 and stay execution .u cases onlv where the writ of
error is fer-'ed, by a copy therol being lodged for theadverfe party
i n the clerk's office, where the record remains within ten days, Sun
days exclusive, after lendeiing the judgment or palling the decree
complaincd of until the expiration of which term often days, exe
cuitons shall not issue in any cafe where a writ of error may be a fu
perfedeas; and whereupon such writ of error the Supreme or circuit
court shall affirm a judgment or decree, they Oiall adjudge ordccrec
to the respondent in error just damages for his delay, and single or
double costs at their difcrction.
Andbeitfurther enafled y Thzt when a judgmentor decree shall be re
versed in a circuit court,fuch court shall proceed to render such judg
ment or pass such decree as the diftridl court should have rendered or
parted ; and the Supreme Court shall do the fame on leverfals there
in, except where the reverfa) is in favor of the plaintiff, or petitioner
in the original suit. and the damages to be afteffed, or m alter to be
decreed, are uncertain, in which cafe they shall remand the caiife
for a final decision. And the Supreme Court lhall not iflue exe
cution in causes that are removed before them by writs of error,
but shall fend a special mandate to the circuit coOrt to award exe
cution thereupon.
And be it further enabled. That a final judgment or decree in any
suit, in the highest court of law or equity of a State in which a
decision in the suit could be had, where is drawn in question the
validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authoi itv exeicifed under the
United States, and the decision is against their validity; 6r where is
drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an authority excr
cifed under any State, on the ground of their being rcpugnat to the
conflitution, treaties or laws of the United States, and the decision is
in favor of such their validity, or where is drawn in question the
confttudlion of any claufc of the conflitution, or of a treaty. 01 sta
tute of, or coinmiflion held under the United States, and the de
cision is against the title, right, privilege or exemption specially
set up or claimed by either party, under such clause of the laid
conflitution, treaty} statute or commiftion, may be re-xamined
and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United States
upon a writ of error, the citation being signed by the Chief Justice
or Judge or Chancellor of the Court, rendering or palling the
judgment or decree complained of, or by a justice of the Supiemc
Court of the United States, in the fame manner and under the
fame regulations, and the writ shall have flie fame effedl, as if the
judgment or decree complained of had been rendered or parted
111 a'circuit court, instead of remanding the cause for a final deci
sion as before provided, may at their difcrction, if the cadfe shall
have been once remanded before, proceed to a final decision of the
fame, and award execution. But no other error shall be artigned
or regarded as a ground of revcrfal in any such cafe as aforefaid,
than such as appears on the face ot the record and immediately re
fpedls the beforementior.ed qucftionS of validity or conftrudlion of
the said conflitution, treaties, commiflions, or authorities
in dispute.
Andbeit further eifqFitd, That in all cases brought before either
oj the couit of the United States to recover the forfeiture annex
ed to any articles of agreement, covenant, bond or other speciality,
■where the forfeitarA, breach or non-perfOrinancc lhall appear, by
the default or confefrion of the defendant or upon demurrer, the
c ourt before whom the adlion is, shall render judgment therein for
the plaintiff to recover so much as is due according to equity. And
wljeii the sum for which judgment shall be rendered is uncertain,
the fame shall, if cither of the parties requefl it, be alfeffed by a
jury.
And be it further cnafted, That a marshall shall be appointed in
and for each diftridl for the term of four years, but shall be remove
able from office at pleasure, whose duty it lhall be, to attend the
diftridl and circuit courts when fitting therein, and also the Su
preme Court in the diftridl in which that court fl.all fit. And to
execute throughout the diftridf, all lawful precepts diredled to him,
and iffucd under the authority of the United States, and he shall
have power to command all necessary aftillance in the execution of
liiSdutyj and to appoint as their shall be occasion, one or more
deputies, Who shall be removable from office by the judge of the
diftridl couit. or the circuit Court fitting within the diftridl, at the
pleasure of either, and before he enters on the duties of his office,
he shall become bound for the faithful performance of the fame,
by himfelf and by his deputies before the judge of the diftridl court
to the United States, jointly and severally, with two £ood and
fufficient ftneties, inhabitants and freeholders of such diftridl, to
be approved by the diftridl judge, in the sum of twenty thousand
dollais, and take before said judge, as shall also his deputies,
before they enter 011 the duties of their appointment, the follow
ing oath of office : tl lA. P. do fo'lemnly fwcar or cffirm ;
u that I will faithfully execute all lawful precepts dire&ed to the
41 marshal of the diftrift of under the authority
"of the United States, and true returns make, and in all
" things well and truly, and without malice or partiality, perform
44 the duties of the office ot marshal (or marfhai's deputy, as the cafe
44 may be) of the diftrift of during my continuance
44 in said office, and take only my lawful lees. So help me God."
And be it further enaflcd, That in all causes wherein the marshal
or his deputy (hall be a party, the writs and precepis therein shall
be directed to such difmterefted person as the court, or any justice
or judge, thereof may appoint, and the person so appointed, is
hereby authorised to execute and return the fame. And in cafe of
the death of any marshal, his deputy or deputies lhall continue in
office, unless other wife fpccially removed ; and shall execute the
fame in the name of the decealed, until another marshal be ap
pointed and sworn : And the defaults or misfeafances in office
of the deputy or deputies in themean time, as well as before., ffial)
be adjudged a breach of the condition of the bond given, as before
diicfled, by the marshal who appointed them ; and the executor or
administrator of the deccafed ruarfhal (hall have like icmcdyforthe
defaults and misfeafances in office of such deputy or deputies during
such interval, as they would be entitled to it the marshal had con
tinued in life and in the efcerciie of his said office, until his fuc
cefTor was appointed, and sworn or affirmed : And every marshal
or his deputy when removed from office, or when the term for
which the marflial is appointed (hall expire, shall have power not
withstanding to execute all sUch precept* as may be in their hands
refpcftivelv at the time of such removal 01 expiration of office; and
the hiarfhal (hall be held anl vrerable for the delivery to his fuccefTor
of all prisoners Which may be in his custody at the time of his re
moval, or when the term for which he is appointed fnall expire, and
for that purpose may retain such priloners in his fuccefTor until his
fucccffor shall be appointed and qualified as the Jaw diredls.
And be it further enabled, That in cases punishable with death, the
trial shall be had in the county Ivhere the offence was committed,
or where that cannot be done without great inconvenience, twelve
petit jurors at leafl shall be summoned from thence. And jurors
in all cases to serve in the cOurts of the United States shall be de
signated by lot or otherwise in each State refpe&ively accord
ing to the mode of forming juries therein now pra&ifed, so
for as the laws of the fame lhall render such dcfignation prac
ticable by the courts or marihals of the United States; and the
jurors shall have the fame ejUalifications as are requisite for ju
rors by the laws of the State of which they are citizens, to serve in
the highest courts of law of such State, and shall be returned as there
shall be occasion for them, from such parts of the diftrift from
time to tune as the court (hall dire&, so as shall be moil favor
able to an impartial trial, and so as not to incur an unnecefTary
expence, or unduly to burthen the citizens of any part of the di
ftrift with sUch services. And writs of veJtirefacias when direct
ed by the court shall iftue from the clerk's office, and (hall be ser
ved and returned by the marshal in his proper person, or by his
deputy, or in cafe the marshal or his deputy, is not an indiffer
ent person, or is interested in the event of the cause, by such fit
person as the court shall specially appoint for that purpose, to
whom they shall administer an oath or affirmation that he will
truly and impartially serve and return such writ. And when from
challenges or otherwise there shall not be a jury to determine any
civil or criminal cause, the marshal or his depnty shall, by order
of the court where such defeffc of jurors (hall happen, return jury
men tie talibus circurrjlantibus fufficient to complete the pannel;
and when the marshal or his deputy are disqualified as aforefaid,
jurors may be returned by such dilintereftad person as the court
lhall appoint.
And be itfurther etiafied, That the mode of proof by tfral
mony and examination of witnefTes in open court (hall be the
fame in all the courts of the United States, as well in the trial of
causes in equityand of admiralty and maritime jurifdi&ion, as of
actions in common law, And when the testimony of a fly person
shall be ncccfTary in any civil cadfe depending in any diflrift in
any court of the United States, who (hall live at a greater distance
from the place of trial than one hundred iViiles 9 or is bound on a
voyage to sea, or is about to go out of the United States, or out
of such diftritt, and to a greater distance from the place of trial
than as aforefaid, before the time of trial, or is ancient or very
infirm, the deposition of such person may be taken de bene ejfe
before any justice or judge of any of the courts of the United States,
or before any chancellor, justice or judge of a supreme or superi
or court, mayor or chief magistrate of a city, or judge of a county
court or court of common picas of any of the United States, not
being of cocncil or attorney to either of the parties, or interested
in the event of the cause, provided that a notification from the ma
gistrate before whom the denofltion is to be taken to the adverse
party, to be present at the taking of the fame, and to put interro
gatories, if he think fit, be full made out and served on the ad
verse party or his attorney as either may be nearest, if either is
within one hundred miles of the place of such caption, allowing
time for their attendance after notified, not less than at the rate
oi one day, Sundays exclusive, for every twenty miles travel.
And in causes of admiralty and maritime jurifdidlion, or other
cases of seizure when a libel shall be filed, in which an adverse
party is not named, and depositions of persons circumstanced as
aforefaid fhali be taken before a claim be put in, the like notifica
tion as aforefaid shall be given to the person having the agency or
poflefflon of the property libelled at the time of the capture or
seizure of the fame, if known to the libellant. And every per
son deposing as aforefaid shall be carefully examined and caution
ed, and sworn or affirmed to teftify the whole truth, and (hall
fubferibe the testimony by him or her given after the fame (hall be
reduced to writing, which shall be done only by the magistrate
taking the deposition, or by the deponent in his presence. And
the deposition so taken (hall be retained by such magistrate until
he deliver the fame with his own hand into the court for which
they are taken, or shall, together with a certificate of the reasons
as aforefaid of their being taken, and of the notice if any given to
the adverse party, be by him the said magistrate sealed Up and di
rected to fueh court, and remain under his seal until opened in
court. And any person may be compelled to appear and depose
as aforefaid in the fame manner as to appear and teftify in court.
And in the trial of any cause of admiralty or maritime jurifdic
tioni in a diftritt court, the decree in which may be appealed
from, it either party shall suggest to and fatisfy the court that pro
bably it will not be in his power to produce the witnefTes there
tcftifying before the circuit court (hould an appeal be had, and
shall move that their testimony be taken in writing, it shall
be so done by the clerk of the court. And if an appeal be had,
such testimony may be used on the tfial of the fame, if it (hall
appear to the fatisfaCfion of the court which shall try the appeal,
that the witnefTes are then dead or gone out of the United States
or to a greater distance than as aforefaid from the place where the
court is fitting, or that by reason of age, sickness, bodily infirmi
ty or imprifonmcnt they are unable to travel and appear at court,
but not otherwise. And unless the fame shall be made to appear
on thetrial of any cause, with refpeft to witnefTes whole deposi
tions may have been taken therein, such depositions shall not be
aomitted or used inthe cause. Provided, That nothing herein fhali
be construed to prevent any court of the United States from grant
ing a dedimus potejlatem to take depositions according to common
when it maybe necefTuy to prevent a failure or delay of
juflice ; which power they lhall severally poflfefs, nor to extend to
depositions taken in ferpctuam rei memoriam, which if they relate
to matters that may be cognizable in any court of the United
States, a circuit court on application thereby made as a court of
equity, may, according to the usages in chancery direct to be
taken. ;
And be it further enaSed, That where any suit shall be depend
in <r , n any court of the United States, and cither of the parties
(hall die before final judgment, the executor or administrator of
such ucccaf d party who was plaintiff,- petitioner or defendant.
in cafe tfie cauft of action doth by law survive, shall have f 1
power to prosecute of defend any 'such suit or a'ftion untiH l
judgment ; and the defendant or defendants are hereby obliged t
answer thereto accordingly ; and the court before whom f ?
cafe may be depending is hereby empowered and dire&ed to |T'
and determine the fame, and to render judgment for or acainft
the executor or administrator, as the cafe may require And !
such executor or administrator having been duly lerved with'l
fcire facias f rom the office of the cleikof the court where 1Y
suit is depending twenty days beforehand, ihall neglect 0 r refuf
to become a party to the suit, the court may render iud-menu
gainst the eftateof the decealed party, in the fame manner as if
the executor or administrator had voluntarily made himfelf a pa -
ty to the suit: And the exccutor or administrator who shall be"
come a party as aforefaid, lhall, upon motion to the court where
the suit is depending, be entitled to a continuance of the fame
until the next term of the said court. And if there be two
more plaintiffs or defendants, and one or more of them (halldie
if the cause of action lhall survive to the surviving plaintiff or plain'
tiffs, or against the surviving defendant or defendants, the wist
or action shall not be thereby abated ; but such death fa
gelled upon the record, the action shall proceed at the suit of th"
surviving plnntiff or plaintiffs against the surviving defendant or
defendants.
And be it father enafled, That no lummons, writ, declaration
return, process, judgment, or other proceedings in civil caules in
any of . the courts of the United States, shall be abated, arrelied
quashed or revei fed, for any defect or want of form, but the laid
courts refpeftively (hall proceed and give judgment according a.<
therightof the cause and matter inlaw shall appear unto then
without regarding any imperledlions, defers, or want of formin
such writ, declaration or other pleading, return, process, judg
ment, or course of proceeding whatsoever, except those only i n
cases of demurrer, which the party demurring lhall specially fit
down and txprefs together with his demurrer as the caufcthereof
And the said courts refpcftivly (hall and may, bv virtue of this ast
from time to time, amend all and every such imperft&ions,
fefts and want of form, other than thole only which the party de
murring shall exprefsas aforclaid, and may at any time perni't ei
ther of the partu s to amend any defect in the process or pleadiu
upon such conditions as the said courts refpeftively lhall in their
difcrction, and by their rules preferibe.
And be it further enaded, That for any crime or offence agair.!}
the United Slates, the oftV»der may. by any jufticeor jud.e of
the United States, or by any justice of the peace, or other
flrate of any of the United States where he may be found agreea
bly to the usual mode of proctfi against offenders infucli State
and at the expcnce of the United States, be arrested, and impn
fonedor bailed, as the cafe may be, for trial before such courtof
the United States as by this ast has cognizance of the offence:
And copies of the process shall be returned as speedily as may be
into the clerk's office of fuchcourt, together with the recognizan
ces of the witnesses for their appearance to teftify in the cafe;
which recognizances the magi Urate before whom the examination
shaM be, may require on pain of imprisonment. And if such
commitment of the offender, or the witnesses shall be in a diftritt
other than that in which the offence is to be tried, it shall be the
duty of the judge of that diftrift where the delinquent is impri
foncd, seasonably to issue, and of the marshal of the famediftrift
to execute, a warrant for the removal of the offender, and the wit
nesses, of either of them, as the cafe may be, to the diftrift ia
which the trial is to be had. And upon allarrefts in criminalca
fes, bail shall be admitted, except where the punishment may be
death, in which cases it shall not be admitted but by the supreme
or a circuit court, or by a justice of the supreme court, or a judge
of a diftrift court, who shall exercise their difcrction therein,
regarding the nature and circumftanccs of the offence, and of the
evidence, and the usages of law. And if a person committed bf
a justice of the supreme or a judge of a diftrift court foranof
fencenot puuifhable with death, shall afterwards procure bail,
and there be no judge of the United States in the diftrift to take
the fame, it may be taken by any judge of the supreme, or fupen
or court of law of such State.
And be it further enafled, That the laws of the several States ex
cept where the constitution, treaties or statutes of the United
States shall otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as
rules of decision in trials at common law in the courts of the U
nited States in cases where t .ey apply-
And be it further enacted, That in all the courts of the United
States,the parties may plead and manage their own causes person
ally or by the assistance of such counsel or attornies at law as by the
rules of the said courts refpeftively shall be permitted to manage
and conduct causes therein. And there shall be appointed in each
d ifti ift a meet person learned in the law to ast as attorney for the
United States in such diftrift, who shall befworn or affirmed to
the faithful execution of his office, whose duty it shall be to pro
secute in such diftrift all delinquents for crimes and offences,cog
nizable under the authority of the United States, and all civil ac*
tions in ivhichthe United States shall be concerned, except befoie
the supreme court in the diftrift in which that court shall be hold
en. And he shall receive as a compensation for his services iuch
fees as shall be taxed therefor in the refpeftive courts before which
the suits or prosecutions shall be. And there shall also be appoint
en a meet person, learned in the law, to ast as attorney-general
for the United States, who shall be sworn or affirmed, to a faith
ful execution of his office ; whose duty it shall be to prosecute and
conduct all suits in the supreme court in which the United States
shall be concerned, and to give his advice and opinion uponquel
tions of law when lequired by the President ot the United States,
or when requested by the heads of any of the departments, touch
ing any matters that may concern their departments, and sna
leceive such compensation for his services as shall by law
provided. FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Rep)efentativfr
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and President of the Sentfa
Approved, September 24, 1789.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, PrefidtutjJ the United
MONITORIAL.
EXAMPLES are more powerful to persuade
than either precept or force ; and should viituf
be universally pra<ftifed by those whom the » or
look up to as models, the converts to goo n >
would not be so few as they now are : men . c^ ie
have a bright exemplar before them. V e
known our beloved President to be every 11 a
that is great, heroic and magnanimous \V e
read his moral precepts —and we have
pratfiifing the morality of his writings.
tive to the duties of his high station,_ e !1 ®
thelefs gives conftantattendance on Divine
(hip—nor does he ever permit feculai -
break in upon the duties of the Sabbatn.
alt love the President—greatly revere ' u ''
us then imitate every trait in his chaiac e.
is in our power, by copy inghis moral wit"
shall find as he cxprefles it, an iiulil ou. ffeen
nedtion between duty and advantage— ,j !S
a just and religiouslife andconvei iatiori
solid rewards, peace and happineiS. L' ,
Publifked by JOHN b'KNNO, No. 9>
near tb. Nr.v-T»'^S*'