oflß
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS DY JOHN FF.NXO, No. G9, hi AR A' ET-STREET, BETWEEN 1 SECOND AND TlllRl) STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 69, of Vol. ll.]
The Tablet.—No. 152.
[General fubjeft continued.]
" The commerce of this country is so difuf,d and
t!r?ided with other obj.' cis r /J attention, that id?
tfcape those vices which prevail among a people puri
ly commercial.'"
'"INHERE is hardly a circumltance more favor
able to the real fafety and prosperity of the
United States, than the difliculry any particular
class of citizens mull' find in gaining influence or
wealth to the exclusion of other clafles. Men
employed in commerce and speculation will al
ways command inoft of the active property, in
any country where commerce and enterprize are
encouraged and rei'pe<fted. But in this country,
the leading men are and will be composed of
Inch a blend of characters that the mercantile in
terest can never maintain more than a proper
lhare of weight in the public deliberations. All
profeffions and descriptions of people will be so
far noticed that their voice will be neither un
heard or difi egarded. This blend of chara<fier
prevents the inhabitants of this country from
wearing tliofe marks of nationality which corn
ftitute a flrong, decided national character, It
likewise affords a security againlt the intrigues
of powerful combinations, as well as againlt the
cffecfls of rapid and enormous wealth. There
seems to be no denomination of men who can
combine so much strength as to defeat rhofe
mcafures which may be dictated by the general
fentir.ients of the community.
I have made the preceding remarks to coun
teract the force of an objection that is fometjmes
raised againfl giving encouragement to men en
gaged in commercial pursuits : It is often fug
gelted that the wealth such men will acquire
mull give them a di(proportionate share of in
fluence in the operations of the government,
and introduce maxims and manners, hostile to
public liberty. As tlipfp point© been, ill
fonie meaftire, contemplaied in three or four of
iriy late speculations, I proceed to place thefub
jetftin a new and different light. There is no
reason to apprehend that commerce will again
produce such rapid or extensive wealth to indi
vidual men, or to trading cities, as have been
experienced in former times
Too many nations are now acquainted and
concerned with comme: ce to l ender the gains of
any particular community Hidden or enormous.
11l England and Holland, it is true, there is a
vast fnperiority over other nations not less in
clined to purine, and not worse fnuated to at
tain commercial advantages. But the immense
tradingflocks acquired in those countries beiore
their neighbors had conceived a spirit of enter
prize has prevented the objects of commerce
from flowing in their molt natural channels.
This inequality however will fljortly be correct
ed, and probably 110 fucli difproporiion will
ajrain prevail. The fame observation may in
foine degree be applied to individuals. she
diltribution of commerce will throw it into so
many hands qs to create such a competition as
will'not only lellen the prolit of bulinefs, but di
vide it among such a number of persons that few
ornone can reap immoderate gains.
When the trade of the world was confined to
a few narrow diftrids, some enterprizing com
munities acquired riches so rapidly as to fall into
the extremes either of avarice or prodigality.
Tliou'gli habits of accumulating wealth general
ly make men avaricious, yet sudden gains some
times have a contrary effect. However, in either
of these cases, the consequence of such riches has
a pernicious aKpe.fi upon society. For a commu
nity that is prodigal or covetous, will alike.dif
regard those institutions which are bed calculat
ed to promote science, virtue and freedom. Si
tuated as we are in tlve United States, we (hall
derive mod of the benefits of commerce, without
being exposed to many of its inconveniencies. It
is not probable the inhabitants of this country
■vvlll ever bedebafed by that servile avarice which
characterizes a people purely commercial; nor,
on the other hand, will apy particular trading
town gain a pre-eminence over others as to
fall'into tha,t.prodigality wliic[i results from fa
t pid aCquisitions of property. Our merchants in
termingle so much with other ilafles of citizens,
that they are ambitious of other diftindiions be
fules thofp of superior riches. Of courfethey
afiumc a refpcdlable stile of living, and cultivate
Saturday, December 25, 1 790*
a mile for the more refined pleasures of society :
By ihel'e means they wear off the sharp points of
their profellional vices, and become a generous
an.l patriotic, as well as a wealthy and indufb i
ous part of tlie coiumunity. The commercial,
agricultural and manufacturing interests are
blejuled in focli a manner, in this country, that
they matt rife and fall together. No branch of
them can be injured by the prosperity of the
others. All j'ealoufies therefore between them
are premature and ill-grounded. Should the
ft)bject be once more relumed, it will bring into
a summary view tlie leading ideas contained in
several of my lad fpectilations.
PLAN OF A NATIONAL BANK,
As laid before the House of Reprefentatwei of the United. States by the
Secretary of the Treasury, the 13M injlant.
I.' I I HE capital flock of the bank shall not exceed ten millions
X of dollars, divided into twenty-five thousand (hares, each
lhare being four hundred dollars ; to raise which sum, fubferip
tions shall be opened on the firft Monday of April next, and shall
continue .open until the whole shall be fubferibed. Bodies politic
as well as individuals mayfubferihe.
11. The amount of each share shall be payable, one fourth in
gold and filvcr coin, and three-fourths in that part of the public
debt, which according to the loan proposed by the a6l making
provision for the debt of the United States, shall bear an accruing
intercil at the time of payment of fix per centum per annum.
llf. The refpeftive sums lubfcribed shall be payable in four
equal parts, as well specie as debt, in succession, and at the dis
tance of fix-calendar months from each other : the firfi payment
to be made at the time of fubfeription. If there shall be a fai. re
in any subsequent payment, the party failing shall lose the benefit
of any dividend which may have accrued prior to, the time ior
making such payment, and duringthe delay of the fame.
IV. The fubferibers to the bank and their luccefTors shall be
incorporated, and shall so cbntmue'until the final redemption of
that part of its flock which shall confil 1 of the public debt.
V. The capacity of the corporation, to. hold real and personal
estate shall be limited to fifteen millions of dollars, including the
amount of its capital or original flock. The lands and tenements
which it shall be permitted to hold, shall be only such as shall
be requisite for the im- a iiate accommodat'on of the ;
and such as shall have been bona fide mortgaged to it by way of
security, er conveyed to it in fatisfa£lion of debtj previously fcoh
tra6led, ih the usual course of its dealings, or purchased at sales
upori judgments which shall have been obtained for such debts.
VI. The totality of the debts of the company, whether by
bond, bill, note, or other contrafr (cred its for deposits excepted)
shall never exceed the amount oF its capital (lock. In cafe of ex
cels, the directors, under whose adniiniftration it (hall happen,
shall be liable for it in their private or separate capacities. Those
who may have di (Tented may excyfe themselves from this refpon
fibilitv by immediately giving notice,of the fa& and their d;iiTent r
to the President of the and to the stock-holders, at
a general meeting to be called by the president of she bank at their
rcqueft.
VII. The company may feHordemifc its lands and tenements,
or may fell the whole or any part of the public, debt, wherebf its
stock shall consist ; but shall trade in nothing, except btiU of ex
change, gold and silver bullion, or in she sale of.goods pledged
for money lent : nor shall take more than at the rate of fix per
centum per <innum, upon its loans or discounts.
VIII. No loan shall be made by the bank, for the use or on
account of the government of the United States, or of either of
them to an amount exceeding fifty thousand dollars, or .of any fo
reign prince or state;; unless previously authorized by a law of
the United States.
IX. The stock of the bank shall be transferable; according to
such rules as shall be"inftituied by the company on that behalf.
X. The affairs of the bank shall be undei the management of ,
twenty-five dire&ors, one of whom shall be the president. And
there lhall be on the firft Monday of January, in each year, a
choiceof directors, by plurality of fuffrages of the ftock-hol.ders,
to serve for a year. The dire&ors at their firft. mcqiing alter
each ele&ion, shall cHose one of their number as president.
XI. The numbei of votes to which each flock-holder shall be
entitled, shall be according to the number o£ shares he shall hold,
in the proportions following ; that is to fay, For one fharc, and
not more than two fharcs, one vote : For every two shares above
two, and not exceeding ten, one vote : For every four shares
above ten, and not exceeding-thirty, one vote: For every fix
shares above thirty, and not exceeding sixty, one vote : For every
eight shares above sixty, and not exceeding one hundred, one
vote ; and for every ten shares above one hundred, one vote :
But no person, copartnership, or body politic, shall be entitled
to a greater number than thirty votes. And after the firft elec
tion, no'fharc or shares shall confer a right of-fuffrage, which
shall not have been holden three calendar months previous to - the
day of election. Stockholders aflually resident within the United
States, and none other, may vote in ele&ions by proxy.
XII. Not more than three-fourthS.of the' directors in offiefy
exclusive of the president, fhail be eligible sos the next Cufcceeding
ye. r. But the direfcVor wijio shall be prefidept at the lime of an
elt ftion, may always be re-ele£ted.
XIII. None but a stockholder,' being a citizen of the United
States, shall be eligible as a director.
XIV. Any number of stockholders not less than (ixty, who to
gether shall be proprietors of two hundred shares, or upwards,
lhall have power at anytime to call a general meeting of the
llockhoMers,' for purpoles relative to the inftitutiort ; giving at
lea ft fix weeks notice in two public gazettes of the place where
bank is kept, and fpccifying in such notice the obje& of the
meeting. .
XV. In cafe of the death, resignation, absence from the Uni
ted States, or removal of a director by the ftockholdcrs, his place
may be filled by a new choice tor the remainder of the year.
XVI. No director shall be ientitled to any emolument, unlefi
the lame fha.ll have been allowed by the stockholders at a general
meeting. The stockholders (hall make such compensation lo the
president, for his extraordinary attendance at the bank, as lhall
appear to them reasonable.
XVII. Not less than seven directors Onll cooftitutc a board
for the tranfaftion of business.
681
[Whole No. 125.]
XVIII, Every cashier, or treasurer, before he caters on the
duties of his office, fha 11 be required to give bond, with two or
more sureties, to the fatisfadlion of the dirc&ors, in a sum not
less than twenty thousand dollars, with condition for his good
behaviour.
XIX. Half yearly dividends (hall be made of so much of the
profits of the bank, as fhal 1 appear to the dire&ors advifeable.
And once in every three years the directors (hall lay before the
stockholders, at a general meeting, for their information, an fx
aft and particular statement of the debts, which ihall have re*
mamed unpaid, after theexpiration of the original credit, for a
period of treble the term of that credit, and of the surplus of pio
fit, if any, alter deducting loilesand dividends.
XX. The bills and notes of the bank originally made payable,
or which shall have become payable on demand, in gold and sil
ver coin, shall be receivable in all payments to the United States.
XXI. The officer at the head ot the treafuty department of the
United States, shall be furnifhed from time to time, as often as
he may require, not exceeding once a week, with ftatcments of
the amount of the capital flock of the bank, and of the debts due
to the fame, of the monies deposited therein, of the notes in
:irculatio«. and of the cash in hand ; and (hall have a right to
inlpedl such general accounts in the books of the bank, as shall re
late to the said flatcments ; provided that this lhall not be con
llrued to imply a right of infpe&ing the account ps any private in*
ividual or individuals, with the bank,
XXII. No similar institution shall be eflablifhed by any future
ast ol the United States, during the continuance of the one hereby
proposed to be established.
XXIII. It shall be lawful for the directors of the bank to eflab-
lifh offices, wheresoever they (hall think fit, within the United
States., for the purposes of discount and deposit only, and upon the
lame terms, and in the fame manner, as shall be pra&ifed at the
bank, and to commit the management of the said offices, and the
making of the said discounts. either to agents specially appointed
by them, or to such persons as may be chosen by the stockholders
residing at the place where any such office shall be, under such a
grcements, and fubjett to such regulations as they lhall deem pro
per ; not being contrary to law, or to (heconflitution of the bank.
XXIV. And latlly. The President of the United States shall
be authorised to cause a fubfeription to be made to the flock of
the said company, on behalf of the United States, to an amount
not cxcccding two millions of dollars, to be paid out of the mo
nies which lhall be borrowed by virtue of either of the a 6l's, the
one entitled, " An adt making provision for the debt of the Uni
ted States," and the other entitled, "An a6t making provision
for the redu6liou of the public debt; borrowing of the bank an
equal sum, to' be applied to the purposes for which the said mo
nies (hall have been procured, reimbursable iri ten years by equal
annual inftalmints ; or at any time sooner, or in any greater pro
portions, that the government may think fit.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Sketch of the Debatej on lh; MILITIA BILL.
MONDAY, Dec. 20, 1790.
The 3d feiftion under con fide rat ion.
MR. FITZSIMONSYnoved an amendment, by
which the light infantry, or riflelti'eii, one
company of artillery, and one troop of liorfe,
should be feletfted from the militia, without refer
ence to any particular age. He fakl the clause
which enacfts that tliefe companies /hall be com
posed of persons from 18 to 2j years of age, would
operate again (I several particular interests, espe
cially mechanicks and manufacturers.
Mr. Madi("on remarked that by the bill, all per
sons between the ages of ißand 2J, were to serve
in tliofe companies—it was not confined to artifi
cers alone. The agricultural interell had as much
caofe to complain. But the intension, of making
the youth perforin double duty, was that they
might speedily be taught the military art, and be
enabled to defend their country, if her Situation
called for their aid
Mr. Jackson was opposed to it : He said tliat
from 18 to 21 was found to be the belt age to
make soldiers of. After that period men become
engaged in the concerns of life—get married,
have children, enter into bufmefs, &c. It would
not bear harder on the manufacturers and me
cliankks than on the farmers—and as the sea
ports have generally more at Hake, it seems to
tollo\vthat the obligation is llronger on them to
turn out in the militia.
Mr. Heifter was in favor of the motion.
Mr. Fitzfiinons said he was tnifunderftood : He
did not mean that persons from 18 to 25 ftiotild.
be excufedfrom military duty : His wish was that
facli persons should not be particularly pointed
out for this duty.
Mr. Lawranct was in favor of the motion : He
obfervt'd that it was not age alone that was to be
considered in forming light infantry or artillery
companies : There are other considerations, as
size, agility, Szc. He thought the motion a good
one.Mr. Ames was also in favor of the motion : He
thought confining the felccfiions for those com
panies to the particular period mentioned, would
deprive us of the fervicesof many of the soldiers
of the late continental army, whose knowledge
and experience would be highly ufeful. He I'ug
gefted difficulties which would result from col
lecting the persons of the above age, from differ
ent parts of the country, in order to forming
them into futh companies.
Mr. Sturges observed, that he thought afiinple
regulation, that all the militia ffiould be called out
so many times a year would be fufficient : This
general plan would leave thefeveral independent
corps as they now are—and these particular com
panies would be fele<fted as heretofore.
Mr. Partridge was opposed to the amendment.
The object of the bill being to dilcipline the mi
litia, it feeined to follow of course, that persons of
an age, the moll likely to learn, should not be ex
cepted.
Mr. Giles said, that gentlemen did not appear
to take -a comprehensive view of the bill : One
objedt of which is to establish a military school.
In order to this the bill .proposes that persons
should commence their military course at an ear-
Jy age. Iffuch persons are called upon oftener
than those of more than 25 years, it does not fol
low that it is unequal—their military knowlege
must befuppofedto be leis. He obviated the ob
jection of the gentleman from New-York, by fay
ing that as military knowledge is neceflary for
all, it follows, tliat young persons of every size
may be trained in one or other of these companies.
Mr. Fitzfimons still fupporred his motion, and
said the difficulty started by the gentleman from
Maflachufetts [Mr. Ames] arising from local cir
cumstances, had not been obviated
Mr. Boudinot said the difficulty, on account of
manufacturers, had not escaped the committee ;
but it could not be avoided without defti oying a
principal feature of the bill. He said the objec
tion might however be in fomemeafure leflened,
by altering the clause from 18 to 20.
The question being taken, it pafled in the af
firmative.
Mr. Smith's (S. C.) proviso, respecting inde
pendent corps, was read : It provided that com
panies in the refpetftive States, incorporated by
the Legislatures, should not be disbanded or in
cluded in the militia, but retain their former
station.
Mr. Giles said he was disposed to think this
proviso more extensive than gentlemen imagine:
It may in its operation exempt all the companies
in the United States. The expression is so gene
ral, and indefinite, that it may not answer the
pnrpofe intended, as those companies are,known
by different denominations—while it may be pro
du&ive of great difficulties from its want of pre
cision.
Mr Amci an account of the several inde
pendent companies in Maflachufetts, particularly
that known by the name of the Ancient and Ho
nourable Artillery—a company which poflefled
funds, and had for many years been in pofleffion
of a charter from government: It had been con
sidered as a military fcliool for a long time—it is
conipofed of Generals, Colonels, and inferior of
ficers, and other refpetfiable persons. This, with
other independent companies, rendered essential
services in the time of the infurredlion in that
state ; and they prove, by their example, a ftiinu
lous to the militia—they have incurred great ex
penses to equip themselves, and it is supposed
merit the privileges and diftin«Ttions they have
long enjoyed.
Mr. Sturges observed that the proviso was de
fective, as it does not point out the duties which
these companies ought to perform.
Mr. Huntington said these companies were, he
believed, under the orders of the regimental
colonels ; at least that was the cafe in fonie of the
States.
Mr. Seney moved, that as there were indepen
dent companies who are not incorporated, it
would be proper to ftnke out the words incorpo
rated by the alls of the federal States. He said, if
this proviso fiiould pass without his amendment,
it would give exclusive privileges to particular
companies who happen to be incorporated
•while the fame privileges will not be extended
to other companies, equally meritorious, who do
not happen to be incorporated.
Mr. Smith's (S. C.) motion being put, was ne
gatived.
The le«fiion which provides that the militia
shall turn out four times a year in companies,
Mr. Hartley objected to. He said it would be
too frequent. He did not consider the militia as
a military school—and such frequent aflemblings
of the people had a tendency to diflipate the
manners of the people, especially youth. He
moved that the claufc should be altered, so that
companies and battalions ftould be »bliged to
turn out only twice a year.
Mr. Wadfworth suggested an alteration in the
amendment, that the clauf'e fliould be altered to
read once a year in battalion, and four times in
companies
Mr. Oilman moved another amendment, that
the militia should turn out in companies three
timei, and once in battalion.
Mr. Jackson regretted that one principle of
the bill was struck out, refpecfting light-infantry
companies. He did not suppose (that though we
are obliged to have some ltanding troops) we
were to depend upon them. - He should regret
the time when this country would depend on a
standing army. He enlarged on the importance
of disciplining the militia : This, said he, is con
fident with the ftridteft principles of republican
ism. He believed.the preservation of liberty
very much depended oil a good militia:. He
thought four- times a year would not be too bur
thenfome, and he was pretty sure it was little
enough to answer any eflential purpose.
Mr. Sherman was in favour of four times in
companies at least, and in battalion as might be
found convenient.
Mr. Wadfworth observed, that less than four
times would answer no purpose at all. Indeed,
it is said, nothing is to be expeifted ; if that is
the cafe, let us give up all thoughts of a militia
bill—but what then becomes of your national
defence ?
Mr. Hartley's motion was loft
Mr. Sherman moved that the clause be amend
ed, to read, that regiments turn out once a year—
Carried.
On motion of Mr. Wadfworth, the times of
rendezvoufingin regiments and companies is to be
regulated by the officer commanding the brigade.
The clause which provides for a Commissary of
Military Stores for each State, Mr. Parker moved
should be struck out. He said the several States
are competent to taking care of their own mili
tary property. This motion was agreed to.
Mr. Wadfworth moved that the Adjutant Gen.
fhoukl have the rank of Brigadier, instead of
Lieut. Col. as proposed by the bill.
Mr. Sherman observed, that according to the
last regulations of the army, no ftafF officer was
to have any rank.
Mr. Wadfworth replied, that the regulation
which the gentleman had mentioned, refpeifted
ftaff officers only who never have any command
—but an officer of such importance as the Adju
tant General, on whom so much depended, and
who might be inverted with a very important
command, he conceived ought to rank higher
than a Lieut. Col. This motion was adopted.
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, Dec. 21.
Militia Bill flill under confideralion.
The 9th, 10th and 11 feiftions were read.
Mr. Bloodworth said, that in his opinion the
house had entered too much into minutiae of
the business, and in a great measure were about
depriving the Itates of the power granted to
them by the constitution. The general govern
ment ought only to organize the militia, and di
reift the mode of difciplipe. The militia, he ob
served, was only under the direction of the gene
ral government when called out in the acftual ser
vice of the United States ; the different states
had the appointment of officers and the right of
trainingthem : but owing to themany particulars
attended to in the bill, he could fee but little
room left to the dates for the exercise of their
power. He thought that endeavouring to establish
a perfedt uniformity in fines, would render that
part of the system very defective ; as the fame
fine might bejuftly complained of as heavy in
one part of the country, and at the fame time be
conlidered so trifling in another part as to ren
der it ineffectual ; he therefore wished that this
part of the business be left to the states to per
form. He moved for ttriking out a number of
clauses, containing several of the particulars he
objected to, not carried.
The 12th, 13th and 14th fecftions were read.
The two firft pafled without alteration ; the
third was ftruckout.
Mr. Madison said, he conceived it would be ne
ceflary to pass a law, authorising the President of
the United States to call out the militia, as the
constitution only fays, that he {hall be comman
der in chief of the militia when in the ferrice of
tW? United States, without giving him the pow
er of ordering it out.
Mr. Fitzfimons wiihed a clause inserted in the
bill, granting the President that power.
Mr. Boudinot conceived it was not the inten
tion of theconftitution thathe (hould bepoflefled
of such a power. It could only be granted to
him by afpecial acft of Congress.
Mr. Smith read a law palled last feflion, and
still in force, giving him that authority.
The t 6th fecftion (providing penalties for those
not performing n.ilitia duty, and pointing out
exemptions) being read,
Mr. Sherman moved to have it struck out. It
was, he said, an absolute poll tax, and not levied
according to the number of inhabitants, which
was in violation of theconftitution.
Mr. Burke said it was contrary to the interest
of the militia to eftabliih so many exemptions as
had been provided. He gave notice, that when
the report came before the house, he would move
for their reduction, and give his reasons fully.
682
It was contrary to the confutation, he also ob
served/ to lay a tax upon certain clafles of citi
zens ; it was not consonant with the principles'
ofjuftice to makethofe conscientiously scrupulous
of bearing arms pay for not a<fting against the
voice of their conscience. This, he'Jl'aid, was
called the land of liberty, in it, we boasted, that
no one fuffered on account of bis conscientious
scruples—and yet we are going to make a respec
table class ofcitizens pay for a right to a free ex
ercise of their religious principles : It was con
trary to the confticution—it was contrary to that
found policy which ought to diretfl the house in
establishing the militia.
Mr. Jackson said he certainly fliould oppose
the principle started by the gentleman lalt up.
Who was to know, he asked, what persons were
really conscientiously scrupulous There was no
tribunal erected to make them swear to their
scruples. If the principle was adopted, lie con
ceived, very few would be found, if their own
word was to be taken, not conscientiously scrupu
lous. There are, he said, other fetfts, befidesthe
society of Quakers, averse to bearing arms. If
the principle was adopted of requiring no c'om
penfation from the exempted, it was laying the
axe to the root ofthe milkifi, and, in his opinion,
the bill might as well be postponed altogether.
He did not chufe to enter into the fubjetfl fully
at this time : He would wait until the bill cnme
before the house.
The 17th fecftion (providing infpedlors of the
militia) was read.
Mr. Seney said, Maryland he thought should
have two infpecftors, itiftead of one, as provided
by the fe<stion : That state, heobferved, was divi
ded by a wide and sometimes dangerous bay,
which could not at all times be eroded. Two
infpetftors were agreed to for Maryland, one
to reside on the eastern, the other on the western
shore.
Mr. Lawrance fawan impropriety in providing
the fame allowance for all the infpedors,without
regard to the quantum of duty to be performed.
The duty, he observed, of an infpecitor in the
State of Rhode-lfland, could not be near so great
as that of the infpecftor in the State of New- York.
He moved that their different salaries be fixed
and fpecified in the bill.
It was agreed ; and the blanks lefcto be filled
with such sums as shall be deemed proper, kvhen
the honfe (hall take that part of the bill into con
flderation.
Mr. Sherman was of opinion that some of the
duties, by this fetflion to devolve on infpejftors,
to be left te the States to exercise. Their
duty should be confined to fuperintenrling the
excrrife and nictnocuvrec.
Mr. Bloodworth was averse to appointing an
officer to be directed by state laws. He ftiould
be appointed, said he, by the state.
Mr. Wadfworth said, in his opinion, he ought
to be a continental officer, and conduct himfblf
in his office in conformity to the laws pafled by
the States.
Mr. Smith moved that that clause which leaves
the appointment of this officer to the president
be struck out, and that it only be fpecified that
such an officer shall be appointed.
Mr. Boudinotconfidered this officer as appoint
ed to affilt the President : It was necessary that
the commander in chief should be acquainted
with the state of the militia, tliroiigli-rit ti'.i con
tinent; it was impoflible for him to gather this
information without aliiltance, the officer was ap
pointed for that purpose, he should be consider
ed as a continental officer, and as such was to be
paid by the general government.
Mr. Smith (aid, if his motion prevailed of ha
ving this officer appointed by thejftates he would
also move that his salary be paid by them. Fe
was to all intents and purposes, a militia officer,
and as such was in the appointment of the States'
Mr. Lawrance wiflied thp clause {truck outj
and the power of the dury of infpe«slor left to the
adjudantggeneral .• In New-York this is the cafe.
Mr. Boudinot fa>d, he thought the duty too
great, and the {alary such an officer would require
more than the states would consent to give, the
officer would not be appointed, and the President
could not receive the neceflary information. The
infpertor was not a militia officer ; but appointed
to collect the information the President {hould
want, for the benefit of the union.
Mr. Fitzfimons gave it as his opinion, that the
officer fliould be under the appointment of the
President.
Mr. Sherman said, there appeared to be a di£
trufl of this infpetfior, unless appointed by the
President ; he thought there could be no just
foundation for entertaining this opinion, if he
should be appointed by the slates. He was cer
tainly appointed for the good of the union ; but
if the leveral states did pay his salary, the expence
would in the end devolve on the United Stares.
It was agreed to leave the appointment to the
states.
Mr. Stone moved that the clause giving to in
fpeftors the rank of lieut. col. be struck Out. He
observed, thatfince the appointment of those of
ficers was left to the states, the house could not
with propriety fix the rank.Mr. Wadfworth hoped it would not be llruck
our. He obfierved, that as the house had the
power of .organizing the militia, and were about
determining that there should be infpeftors,
they could with the fame propriety fiiy what rank
those infpecSors should hold. He was as much a-
Yerfe as any man to granting unneceU'ary titles ;
but where great trust was reposed, and severe du
ty required, there rank {hould also follow. These
inspectors were placed in a very important stati
on, which they could not properly fill without
the weight of i'ome military rank.
Mr. Stone withdrew liis motion.
Mr. Blood worth moved that the rank of brig
adier fiiould be given to them, agreed.
Mr. Benfon moved for an additional clause to
the bill, for granting to the President of the
United States, the power of calling out the mili
tia into the service of the United States, &c. to
repel invaflons or suppress infurretftions.
Mr.Sherman obfervedthat the proposed clause
■was not explicit enough. The general govern
ment by the constitution had not the power of
calling out the militia to suppress infurre<ftions
in the ltatesj without the special request of the
states.
Mr. Bloodworth hoped the additional feclion
would not be adopted, it would be lie said, a
dangerous provision.
Mr. Benfon argeed to withdraw liis motion for
lie present, to bring it before the houte when
the principles of the bill came to be difcufled by
them.
The committee rofe,reported the bill with sun
dry amendments. The speaker resumed the
chair.
Mr. Fitzfimons propoled giving the bill with
the amendments to a special committee to report
thereon
Mr. Madison said it would be improper to re
fer it to a committee, without iirft agreeing to the
principles of the bill.
Mr. Livermore was also against leaving it to a
committee The principles of the bill were by
no means fettled. Three-fourths of it he looked
tipon as useless. The house he conceived, had
no business to enter minutely into particulars ot
the business, further than was warranted by the
constitution.
The report of the committee was ordered to
lie on the table. (Adjourned.)
WEDNESDAY, Dec. 22
/ Mr. Lee presented a petition from S. Summers, an afliftant-quar
ier-mafter, who had received no compensations torhis services last
Referred to the Secretary of the Trcafury.
war.
A was received from the Senate, informing that they
had appointed Mr. Foster, a committee on their part, for the put
pole of xamining enrolled bills,to which they requeued the con
currence ot this house j and the appointment ot a committee on
fheirpart : Ordered, that Mr. Floyd, and Mr. Muhlenberg be a
committee on the part of the house, for the purpose afoiefaid.
The bill for the eftabljfhment of an uniform militia, with the
amend mc:nts as reported by the committee, were taken up in the
house : Same of the amendments were retained ; some modified
and amended, others rejected. Not having gone through the bill,
ifae house adjourned.
THURSDAY, Dec. 23.
Mr. Lawrance presented an add reft from the representatives of
the society of the people called Quakers, in the state of New-York
and Western parts of New-England, praying exemptions from
te? ng arms, or being fubjeQcd to penalties, on account of their
scruples ; which was read.
On motion of Mr. Fitzfimons, the petition of John Churchman
was read a second time, and referred to a committee, consisting
1 of Mr. Huntington, Mr. Madison, and Mr. Heifter.
On motion of Mr. Lawrance, ordered, That the clerk of this
house be dire£led to communicate to the Senate,, copies of the re
ports of the secretary of state, refpe&ing coins, weights and mea
sures ; alfothe report of the secretary of the treasury, iubmitting
a plan for the establishment of a national bank.
Mr. Fitzfimons gave noticc that he (hould move for leave to
bring in a bill refpc£ling the freight of goods on board merchant
lhips or veffeJs.
i A mellage was recevied from the President of the United States
Iwith a copy of a repoit from the secretary of the government
' north weft of the Ohio, rfcfpefting the lands in the western terri-
[|pry, with sundry papers accompanying thefame ; also a copy of
|Fhc secretary of date's report on the fame fubjeft : Which were
read, and ordered to be communicated to the senate.
On motion of Mr. Sherman the house proceeded in tlpie further
consideration of the amendments agreed to in committee of the
■whole, on the militia bill, and made some further progress therein.
Mr. Floyd of the committee on enrolled bills, reported the bill
supplementary to an ast, making provision for the debts of the
United States ; which the committee had examined, and found
duly enrolled.—TheSpeiker iigned the fame.
FRIDAY, Dec. 24.
f Mr. Moore presented the petition of Thomas Nelson, in behalf]
'•f the executors of mariners, who perished on board th<
frigate -which was blown up in an engagement the last
war,
A committee was appointed to bring in a bill to determine how
frr the owners of ships or vclTels (hall be liable to the freighters of
goods on board thereof.
Mr. Burke gave notice that on Monday next he should move for
leave to bring in a bill to alter the time of the meeting of Coogrefs.
The house thert proceeded in the confederation of the amend
ments proposed by the commit,tce of the whole, to the milit'.a
bill ; thfc amendments were adopted by the house with some
amendments,
The amendment proposed by Mr.' Mndifon, to exempt persons
|*onfcientioufly fcrupulousof bearing arms from militia duty, was
after a.long debate disagreed to—cn the principle of the particular
States* being competent to making the exemptions in general.
The bill was then recommitted to the following committee
fir. WafHworth, Mr. Giles, and Mr. Tucker. Adjourned.
SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES.
December 23, 1790.
RESOLVED, That it would be inexpedient to alter tbefyftrm for
funding the public debt eftablifhcd during the last feflion of Con
yefs, and that the petition of Thomas M'Kean and Ailing
thrmfi lvrs a committee of the public creditors of the common
wealth ot Pennsylvania, cannot be granted
The yeas 2nd nays being required upon the above refbJution
were as follows ;
} EAS.—Meffrs. BafT't, Butler. Dalton, Dickinfon, Ellfworth,
Elmer, Few, F >fW, Hawkins, Johnson, Izard, Ktn<j, Lingdon,
Maclav. Read, S r l>uyler, Stanton, Strong, Johnftori, Wmgate.
NAY.—Mr. Morris.
Report oj the CommiJlivners appointed for the reduflio* of the debt of
the United States.
The Vice-Prefidcnt of the United Stales, the Chief Justice of
the United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of theTrca
fury, and the Attorney-General of the United States, report to
Congress, That pursuant to the a£l making provision for the re
dudion of the public debt, they, on thej 26th of Augull, 1790,
onvened in the city of New-York, and entered on the exercise ol
the trust rcpofed in them ; —that conformably to their refoluiion,
. pproved by the President of the United Stales on the 08th of the
fame month, they have commenced the purchase, through the
agency of Samuel Meredith, which on the 26th day of Novem
ber lail, amounted to the sum of 278,687 dollars, 30 c*nts, re
ndered debt of the United States, for which there have been paid
1 5°i 2 39 dollars, 25 cents in specie, as will more particularly ap
peal by a return of the fame Samuel Meredith, confirmed by an
authenticated copv of his account fettled at the treasury ot the Un
ited States, and prayed to be received as part of this report, in
which are fpecified thr* places where, the times when, and the per
ions of whom the said purchases have been made.
Signed, by order of the boards
LONDON, OA. 16.
Original Communication! from PaYis.
THE last dispatches from England have reliev
ed the Spanish Ambafl'ador here from some
of his fears. He did not expedt the Britifli Minis
try would continue a negociation which he has
long known would end in a rupture between his
Court and that of St. James's, provided the Span
ish party in the north could gain certain points,
which now seem likely to be carried in favor of
his Catholic Majesty.
The Parisian militia complain of the King's re
sidence at St. Cloud. As the weather becomes
bad, the service cannot be agreeable to men ac
customed to ease. His majelty fays he is sorry
they should have the lead caufeof diffatisfaftion;
but, as he never required their services, he does
not think himfelf obliged to take any fleps to re
move the cause of their mnnnilrs. His present
intention is to fpcnd the winter in the country.
There is about to be erected, a high National
court in France, for the express cognizance of
the offences comprehended under the terms,
Leze Nation. Before this court the members of
that Parliament and the procureur are to be im
peached, and proceeded against as guilty of re
bellion and contumacy.
The afl'embly decrees further, that the king
be supplicated to secure the persons of the offen
ders to answer when summoned before this crimi
nal court.
Sentence has been palled upon the persons con
cerned in the late dilturbani.es at Florence ; 21
of the principal of them are condemned to the
gallies for fifteen years, 60 are banished from the
Grand Dutcliy of Tufcany, 100 have been order
ed to remain in confinement, and hope for pardon.
The diflurbances at Florence have been en
tirely quieted by the 'appearance of the Austrian
troops.
KINGSTON, (Jamaica) Nov. 8.
How melancholy mult be the reflections of a
citizen of the world, when hefurveys the present
Rate of Europe ; every nation of which seems
only to have exiftencc for the horrid purpose of
making war upon its neighbour ; and such is the
baneful system of government now too generally
adopfed, that even a benevolent Monarch, who
loves his people, and wishes well to all degrees
of human nature, cannot, with lafety, withhold
himfelf from uniting in the sanguinary contests,
in some shape or other, altho his feelings as a man,
and his principles as a christian, impel him to
prefer social peace to the fliameful triumphs of
bloody ambition.
In future ages, when the force of local attach
ments (hall have ceased to operate against the in
terests oftruth, Mr. Pitt's conduct asla Premier,
will be undoubtedly the theme of much admira
ration. In the whole round of Britifli States
men, from the days of the sagacious Lord Bur
leigh to the present moment, no man has had
more serious difficulties to encounter than him.
Soifte cases have presented themselves, of the ut
most moment to our profperiry as a people, and
to his honor as a man ; yet has he so warily guid
ed the veflel of government through the tern pelts
of the times, that in no Angle instance can his
enemies charge him with the want of foreknow
ledge, or the want of\iaving a due regard for
the privileges of the community, or the dignity
of his fovcreign.
N E W-Y O R K, Dec. 20. ■
The President of the society of the Cincinnati of this state hav
ing heard of the death of Major Wvllysand Capt.Ffothingham, re
fluefts that mourning crape for the space of twi ntjr-one days, be
worn by the members of the society, in testimony <of the high re
lpe£t they entertain of the merit of their deceased brothers.
By Order, WILLIAM W. MO&RIS, Sec'y.
SHEPHERD's-TOWN, Dcc. 6,
The fubferiptions lately obtained from individual.in this town
and its vicinity, to be applied towaids cresting the Federal Build
ings, under certain conditions, amount to upwards of twen-
TY THOUSAND DOLLARS.
GEORGE-TOWN, Dcc. 18.
His excellency Alexander Martin, Esq. is re-ele&cd Go
vernor of the State of North-Carolina for the ensuing year.
683
JOHN ADAMS.
BOSTON, Decrmbcr 15.
IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
We have it from good authority, that OIL is admitted in En
gland in American Bottoms, which is one of the many advantages,
that may accrue 10 this country, from a war between England
and Spam. We give th•» information that thole who plough the
ocean to obtain Oil, may reap the advantage, as it is probable,
the alien duty may be taken off likewise.
Philadelphia, Dec. 25.
Extract of a litter from BoHoti, Dec. 11.
"We are anxiously waiting to fee the Presi
dent's Speech, and the opening and afpecft of the
present felfion of Congrefs—lf wifdoin guides
the helm, our national profpedis will be blight
and glorious ! far beyond common calculation.
1 think the ellablifhmenc of a national bank, un
der wife regulations, may be prodntflive of vast
benefits ; by taking the funded stock in the bank
forfecurity: The nation may pay the interest
of the debt, with the interelt received for the
loan of bank notes, so that in fact, the one may
so balance the other as to cost the nation nothing
to pay her interest: ; and nearly all her revenue
inay be applied to pay off the principle of her
debt. If this calculation be light, what an eligi
ble situation our public debt mult be in!
I have jaft glanced an eye over the address of the
Pennsylvania creditors, proposed for further
consideration, in order to petition Congress. I
am not ripe in opinion to form any conjectures
what effedt it may produce ; or what attention
ought to be paid to it. The funding system was
not formed agreeable to my ideas of juflice,
but it may be dangerous to alter it : It require*
much greater wisdom to mend a bad fyllem,
than to make a good one."
One great objeift of the Conflitntion in provi
ding for a national militia in the United States,
most undoubtedly was, to preserve some propor
tional equality in the strength of the several parts
of the Union—but except a supervising power
should be exercised by the general government,
it is evident that particular states may, and will
make such regulations in their militia, as will
create in those ltates the most attentive a force,
that may be paramount to that of their neigh
bours ; and an agreement of several states in
such apian ofdifcipline, would produce ajmilitary
power that would give law to the Uuion. This
power ex ifts in the refpedlive ftates,till it (hall be
aflumed by Congress agreeable to the con
stitution. Experience has proved, • that left at
large in the hands of the several states, a rival
military spirit has been generated, which has
produced the greatest difp.irity between the mi-
litia of different states—a division of the power
to regulate the militia, reduces the defence of
the United States to a nullity—What will be the
confequencefThe general government is left with
out a relource in any emergency, except in a
standing army ; so that the result is this—Whether
the general governmentihall so arrange the mi-
litia as to have a force of this description, at its
command, or whether it muftr have recourfeto a
standing army ? for a government without the
sword as well as the purse, is but the ikeleton of
a government.
By the report of a committee of the Legifiature of Maryland on
the Airumption of the State Debts, it is recommended to the State
Creditor* to lubferibe to the Loan of the United States, and the
State to make up the deficiency on the 6 per cent, interest, which
will be occasioned thereby.
APPOINTMENTS,
ThePrefident of the United States by and with the advice and
content of the Senate, has been pleased make the following ap
pointments :
Woodbury Langdon of the State of New-HampQiire, to be
one of the Commifiioners for fettling the accounts between the
United States and individual States, in place of John Taylor Gil
man, who has resigned his appointment.
And William Gardiner, Commiflioner of Loans in the
State of Ncw-Hampfhire, in place of Nathaniel Gilman who
has declined his appointment. w'
(£3" " A Friend to Commerce '* in our next.
PRICE COJtJitNl'.—'—r-PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT
6 pr. Cents 17/9. 18J. pr. £
3 pr. Cents 9/3 9/6.
Defcred 6 pr. Cents 8/9. gyl
UNFUNDED DF.BT,
Final Settl. and other Certificates 15/9. -16f 80 do.
Indents 9/3 9/6. 47 J do.
State debts 9J6 ioyi 50 do.
New Line of Stages.
THE Subscriber has eftablilhed a line of STAGES from Hart
ford to Boston, by way of Norwich and Providence, which
nil run thro twice a week during the Winter Scafon, and three
imes a week during the Summer Season.
GcK>d Carriages. Horses, and careful Drivers are provided.
pay three Pence per Mile, and are allowed 14 pound
luggage each. Extra Baggage pays at the rate of three Pence
pti Mile for every 150 wt. As the Mail is to go in these Stages
for*he year 1791, fixed hours for starting from the refpeftive Stage
Hou«s is absolutely neceffary—from which there can be no dcvia
lon.' Norwich, Dec. 14, 1790.
for the Eastward leaves
Hartford Mondays and Thnrfdaya
Norwich Tuesdays and Fridays,
Providence Wednesdays and Saturdays,
For the leaves Boston Mondays and Thursdays,
Providence Tuesdays and Fridays,
Norwich Wcdnefdays and Saturdays.
69—iv>3m y
Wanted, a good Cook,
Either Man or Wo trim ——-Enquire at No. 2C9, fccond-Street,
.oppoftte the New-Mark^.
or go pr. cent,
or 47J do.
45 do.
JESSE BROWN,(continued from our last.)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,")
Dccei?ib:r 13, 1790. J
In obedience to the Order of the House of Re-
prefentatives of the Ninth day ot Augult lait,
requiring the Secretary of the Treasury to pre
pare and report, on this day, such further pro
vision as may, in his opinion, be neceflary for
eftablilhingthepublic credit—the faidSecretary
Reffed fully Reports,
r jT I HL expediency of improving the resource of distilled spirits,
X as an article of revenne, to the greatcft pia&icable extent,had
been noticed upon another occasion. Various eonliderations
might be added to thofr, then acduccd, to evince it. Bur they
arc too obvious tojuftify the detail. There is fcarceW an attitude
in which the object can present itlelf, which doe* not invite, by
all the inducements of found policy and public good, to take a
strong andeffc&ual hold of it.
Ti c manner of doing it, or in other voids, the mode of collec
tion, appears to be only point about which adiificultyor ques
t «>n can anfe. If that suggested be liable to just obie&ions, the
united information and wildom of the lcgiflative body enlure the
fubftiturion of a more perftft plan.
The Secretary, however, begs leave to remark, that there ap
pear to him two leading principles; one or the other of which
lnuft iieicffirilv chara&crize whatever plan may be adoprrd. One
of them .makes thefecurity of the revenue to depend chiclly on the
vigilance of the public, officers ; the other rests it, eifentially, on the
integrity of the individualr, intereftcd to avoid the payment oi it.
The firl't is tbe basis of a plan fiibmittcd by the Secretary ; the
lad has pervaded most, if not all the systems which have been hi
therto pra&ifed upon, in ditiennt parts of the United States. The
oaths ot the dealers have been almoit the only security tor their
compliance with the laws.
It cannot be too much lamented, that these have been found an
inadequate dependence. But experience has, on every trial, ma
mfeftcd them to be such. Taxes or duties, relying for tlu ir col
lcttionon that security, wholly, 01 almost wholly, are uniformly
unpiodu&ivc : And they cannot fail to be unequal, as long as men
continue to be discriminated by unequal portions of ic6litude.
The moll confcicntious will pay most; the leuft conscientious,
least.
The impulse of intcreft, always fufficicntly great, alts with pe
culiar force in matters of this kind in to which a loole
mode of thinking is too apt to prevail. The want of a h.ibit of
appreciating proprrly the nature of the public rights, renders thct
impulse, in such cafcs, too frequently an overmatch for the fenfeof
obligation; and the cvafions, which are perceived or fufpe&ed to
be pra&ifed by some, prompt others to imitation, by the power
ful motive of lelf-clcfence. They inier, that they mull follow the
example, or be unable to maintain an advantageous competition
in the buiinefs; an alternative very perplexing to all bur men of
exatt probity, who arc thereby rendered in a great frieafurc vic
tims to a principle of legislation, which does not fufficientlv ac
cord with the bias of human nature. And thus the laws become
fourees of difeburagement and lofsto honest industry, and of profit
?nd advantage to perjury and fraud.
It is a truth that cannot be kept too confhntly in view, that all
revenue laws, which are so conftru&cd as to involve a lax and dc
fe6live execution, are inftrumcnts of oppression to the most meri
torious part of thofc on whom thev immediately opcYate, and of
additional buithcns on the community at large.
Tlu- 1. ft cftVft is produced in two ways. The deficiencies in
the funds (which, in the main, aflord only partial exemption*)
mull be funplied from other taxes: And the charge* ot collc&ion,
which, m most cases, are nearly the fame, whether a tax or duty
yield much or little, occasion an accumulation of the ultimate ex
pcijce of furnifbing a given turn to the treasury.
Another, and a fcriouscvil,chargeable on the system oppo
fitq to that proposed, is, that it leads to frequent and familiar vio
lations of oaths; which by loofeniug one of the strongest binds
of fotiety, and wcaknim; one of the piincipal fccurities to liteand
property, offends not less tgainft the maxims of good government
and lound policy, than those ot religion and morality.
It may not be impr*>por iurjtlu,r to remark, that the two great
objettiym to the clafsof duties denominated cxcifcs, are inappli
cable to the plan fuggeftrd. These obje&ions arc—First, thefum
v)ur\ jurifdiiiion confidcd to the officers of cxcife ; in derogation
from thccouric of the common law, and the right ps trial by jury:
And Tecondly/the general power vested in the fame ofliccis of w
fiting and searching indjeriminateh the houses, stores and other
buildings of the dealers in exc.iCcd articles. But by the plan pro
poled, the officers to be employed arc to be clothed with no fu h
fumm ryjurifdittion, and their difcreiionary power ot vifitmg and
inarching it to be reftri&cdto iliofeplaces, which the dealersthem
fclvcs thall designate by public inligniacxr marks, as the de polito
rics of the articles on which the duties are to be laid. Hcncc it is
one of the recojnmcn'dattons of the plan, that it is not liable to thofc
ohje6tfons.
Duties cf the kind proposed are not novel in the United States ;
as has been intimated in another place. They have cxifted to a
considerable extent, under fevci jl of the state governments, parti
cularly in MafTachufetts, Cor.nc&icut and Pcnnfylvania. In Con
necticut,! ftatc exemplary for its attachment to popular principles,
• not only alf ardent spirits, but forcisii articles ot cohfnmption, ge
nerally, have been the fubjc£ls of an cxcife, or inland duty.
If the supposition, that duties of this kind arc attencicd with
greater cxpence in the collc&ion than taxes on land, should fcem
an argument for pre feeing the latter, it may be obfcvVed, that the
fa6l ought not too readily to be taken for granted. The ftatc of
things in England is fomctimes referx dtoas an example on this
point. But there thq (malincfs of the expcncc-in the colle&ion of
the land tax, is to be ascribed to the peculiar modification of it:
which proceeding without new aflVlTincnts, to a fix d
standard long fincc adjuflcd, totally disregards the comparative, v?—
luc of lands and the variations in their value. T1 ' confequcnce
of this is an inequality, so palpliDlc and extreme, as would be like
ly to be ill rclifhrd by the landholders of the United States. If
in jiuifuitof greater equably, accurate periodical valuations or af
fiftmrnts are. to afford a rnlej >it may well be doubted whether the
exprnce of a land-tax will not*always exceed tha: of the kiud of
duties piQpofed.
Th ingenious, but fallacious hypothecs, that all taxes on con
fnmption fall with accumulated weight, on,land, is now
too g. ncrally and too fatisfadorily exploded, 10 require to be
combated here. It has become an acknowledged truth, that in
the operation of thoic.uxc s, every fptcies of -copjtal and induftr7
contribute their proportion to the 1 evenuc ; andt:o<\feqtiently, u'
as far is they can be iua.de substitutes for taxes on.lands, ler\ -
to exempt them from an undue Ihare ot the pulilic burthen *
, (To be continued.J
' This d.ix is puhlijhuiy ,
By Carey, Stewart, and Co.
Nq. Si, in Front-Street,
THE FIRST AMERICAN EDITION"
DOWAY TRANSLATION OK THE
Vulgate Bit;
Containing99o Pages in Quarto.—— * <:c Six Dollars.)
GIT' Sublicribcrs arc requcttcd to /or their Books.
Ntv. 29.
Philadelphia -Dispensary.
TO THE PUBLIC.
WHEN we fuft undertook the management of this In dilu
tion, the success thereof was doubtful, even amongd its
mod zealous well wilhers ; the novelty and extent of the under
taking were held up as infnperable obje&ions to the acconoplifli
ment of the plan. It was hkewiie luppofed that the mode of
supporting it, by voluntary contributions, would be another on
it c.e of .great weight ; but alter near five sen's experience, we
are happy to remark, that none of these objections appear to have
"been justly lounded ; during this time, the number of our di
trelied fellow-citizens, wiio have experienced the care and bene
fits of this charity, am >unts 10 Jcven thoujundjtx hundred and thir
teen. This we conceive to be the only certain ted of its utility ;
and as thofc who contribute their money to the fuppoit of public
inditutionsought to be frequently informed oi the modeofapply
ing it, as well as of the good etfetts of their charity, we have been
in the pratlice of publilhing an annual.account of the receipts and
expenditures of monies, the number of patients admitted, &c.
Account cj Patients admitted, £3c.
The number of Paunts who have been under the care of the
Dispensary, from D.c. 1, 1789, to D c. 1, 1790, is 1892
Remaining under care irom lall year,
Admitted,
CM whom the number Cured is
Dead
Relieved
Difvharged difordcrly
Removed to the Hospital and houfc of Em
ployment
Remaining under care
Account cj Receipts and Expenditures,
Received from Contributors £ *459 11 2
Expenditures,
IJoufe expenccs and Medicines 243 19 10J
House rent 5® o o
Apothecary's Salary 100 o o
Printing and Stationary
Collecting Subfcriptious
Ballanc* due the Treasurer
since last year,
Ballancc iniheTreafurcr'shandj
Although the expences of this Inflation, have, bj- the ftriftcft
economy, been hitherto defrayed by the annual contributions,
which arc its only support ; yet as many of these contributions
are frequently discontinued by death, yr other caules, wemuft con
tinue to rcqueft the charitable affifkance of the humane and bene
volent, who arc informed, that S ibfcription Books arc kept, as
ulual, at the Difpcnfary, in Chefnut-Sireet, and at Mr. John Clif
ford's, the Treafurcr's, in Front near Arch-Street, wlure their
Subfcriplions will be thankfully received.
The Contributors to ibe Difpcnfary are informed, that an elec
tion for Managers for the enming year will be held at the Difpcn
fary, on Monday the Third Day of January next, between the
hours of Three and Five in the Afternoon.
The votes of the Ladies will be received by proxv.
Samuel Pteafinls William While
Laicrevee Seckel Thortas Franklin
Afhbcl Green Thomas Clifford
Henry He/mtt/i Samuel Mitts
Samuel Potvel George Meade
Henry hid Rcbcrt Bidckivell.
December 15,1790.
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY
THE Managers >1 the STATE LOTTERY, [<resent the Public
with the First C'afs of the Majfachufetts fcmi-anmuil State Lot
tery, which will commencedrawmgin the Repre/entatives'Cfumhr,
in Boston., on the Seventeeuth of March next, or Jtxmtr. if the
Tickets (lull be disposed of.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE
2f,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
1:5,00 a Dollars, to he p.iid in the following Piizcs, lubjeft 10 a
dedurtion of twelve Jiidan half per cent, for the life of the Com
raonweahh. *
Prizes.
rrtzes.
1 of
a'
3
6
to
3°
80
9°
IQO
120
16l
20Q
75^
8388 Piizes.
16612 Blanks.
25000.
(PT TICKETS may be had of the fever a 1 Managers, who will
pay the Prizes on denrava'—of the TREASURER of the Common
wealth—ol JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Stoic, Franklin's-Head,
Court-Street, and at other places as usual
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.l
DAVID COBB, I
SAMI EI. COOPER, y Managers. "
GEORGE R. MI NOT, l
JOHN KNEEL AND, j
Bojlon, July 28, 8790.
Pill LADE I. PHI A, DgCIMQER 1790..
P° f John Dunlap ind Dav id C. Clav
■■OOL cpne ort the firlt day of January, i 7 9,,
David C.I ptopofato publifha Ncwfpapcr,entitled
The Mail,
and
{ *
Daily Advertiser.
('J - tinu d aery Evening, Sundays excepted:)
THEM :i he printed with an elegant new Tvpe, pro
cured tor this i uhr purpose, on Paper, equal in fire and qua
."y to any,-It --(papers of Europe or America-Arid the
jSubfcnberenvl-Mhatoo Means mall he (pared to render the
:Maii and N - ■ 11 uly Advertiser in „,|,er rtfpefts worthy
ofthePubl Pairt.nage, which he now refpccltullv lolicits.
The Pri< I ■ Maw. will be Eight Dollars p,! annum, to be
paid at the los the Year: And Adwrtifemems w.ll be re
ceived mi 1 > , rate Terms as to prove fatisfa&ory to thofc
who may be ulcaicd to favor the Printer with their Commands
ui that line.
Subscriptions are thankfully received at No. 48, Market-Street
by D C. CI.AYPOOLE.
684
-96
1796
JS7B
63
in
«3
64
717 8
10 9
6 8
*4 "4 4
22 io a
£"•459 " «
Dollars.
ioboo is
3000 are
2000
1000
500
200
100
50
i°
30
20
*0
8
PROPOSALS,
By JOHN TRU M BULL,
For Publishing by Subscription*,
TWO PRINTS,
From original Pidures painted by him (elf\
One representing the Death of General WAR REX,
at the Bdttle of Bunker's-Hill.
Theother, tht Death of General MONTGOMERY,
in the Attack of Quebec.
IN the battle of Bunker's-Hiil, the following Portraits are intro
duced--
American. Britijk.
Major General Warrkn, Gen. Sir Willi am Hows,
Putnam. Sir Henry Clinton,
Lieut. Col. John Sma.ll, ,
Major Pit cairn, and
Lieut. Pitcai rn.
In the Attack of Quebec, arc fecn—
General Montgomery, Colonel Thompson,
Major Macphlrson, and Capt. Chiesmam.
CONDITIONS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
The prints will be engraved by two of the moil eminent artists
in Etiropr. The size will be 30 inchcs by 20. The price to fub
fenbers, Three Guineas for each print; one half to be paid at the
time of subscribing, the remainder on the delivery of the prints,
which will be as soon as the work (which is already contidcrably
advanced) can poflTibly be completed.
Subscriptions are received in this city by Jof:ph Anthony,
jun. Goldsmith and Jeweller, No. 76, Mai ket-tlrcet.
Thefj prints are the firft of a ferics, in which it is proposed to
represent ifoe mod hnportant events of the American Revolution.
No period of the history of man, is more ioterefting than thai
in which we have lived. The memory of fcencs in which were
laid the foundations of that free government, which feeures our
national and individual happiness, must cvei remain dear to us,
and to posterity; and if national pride be in any cafe judicable,
Americans have a right to glofy in having given to the world at)
example, whose influence is rapidly spreading the love of free
dom through other nations, and every where ameliorating the
condition of men.
1893
To afliiltn preserving the memory of the illuftiious events which*
have marked this period of our country's glonry, as well as of the
men who have been the mnft important actors in them, is the ob
je& of this undertaking History will do julVicc to an acra so im
portant ; but to be read, the language in which it is» written must
be understood—the language of paintiug is and intelli
gible in all nations, and every age.
As several years of his time, and a very confideraMe expencc,
arc neceflWv to accoinpliHi this undertaking, it would bean im
prudent facrifiee to the mere hope of reputation to go more deeply
into it, without a probability of ultimate fueccfs:—That he may
judge of the degree of this probability, Mr. Trumbull, by thead
vhre of his friends, proposes this fubfci iption, and flatters himfelE
with a hope of meeting that pftrouage from his countrymen,
which will juflily his pxirfuing the objecfc with ardor; and with
out which it is lmpoflible that so cxpenlive a work ihould be con-
tinued.
Thefubjefts proposed to be reprefented,in addition to the tw*
foregoing,.of Bunker's-Hif! and Quebec, are—
* The Declaration of Independence,
* Battle at Trenton,
* Battle of Prucetown,
SuRRENDtR of General Bur Coyne,
Treaty with France,
Rattle of Ku taw Spr inr. s,
* Surrender of Yor k-T o w n ,
Treaty of Peace,
Evacuation of New-York,
Resignation of General Washington,
Th«» a* c h at Trenton,
Inauguration of the President of the Unit in Statu.
Each pitjtuie will contain portraits of the principal characters
who were present at the scene icprefented. Tliofe marked with
liars, are confidcrably advanced ; and the prints from the whole
will he executed of the fame lize, and by the moll eminent en
gravers. '
December i.j,
To tie Merchants, Traders, Foreigners, and the Fuilic in jftnetaL
OCNTIIMKN,
AGREEABLY to the plan which the Subscriber submitted t*
the public confederation, and under the moil flattering aflur
auce of public patronage, he takes the liberty of announcing, that
Dollars. \
10000
6 ooc
6000
6000
,SQOC
6"ooo
8000
EXCHANGE COFFEE HOUSE,
is now opened at the corner of Market and Water-Streets, for the
r comniodaiion of the Merchants, Traders, and other Citirens of
Philadelphia.
The Subscriber deems it unneccflarv to repeat the declarations
of his sincere intention to prosecute his undertaking with'the moll
refpcflful afliduity : But he cannot forbear making a public ack
r owledgment of his gratitude, for the encouragement lie has alrea
dy experienced ; nor suppress his invariable wilh. thai thrtfe geh- !
tlemen who may honor his Coftee-Houle with their prefencc, will
communicate such articles of intelligence received from their cor
refpondenti as they shall think proper, and in preference, will up
on every occasion, point out the dofefts of his plan, or favor hinv
with hints for improving its execution.
The Subscriber will prepare entertainments,either at noon, or in
the evening, for felett parties, upon the Ihorteftnotice, and on the
most realonable terms. He can accommodate two or three Gen
tlemen with lodgings ; and proposes at two o'clock on each day,
when the public business of the Co4Fee-Room is over, to provide a
cheap, but good and plentiful ordinary, for such guefls as (hall
honor him with theircompany.
' I am, Gentlemen,
4500
4000
3600
3220
2000
60680
125000
Dec. 18.
By Thomas Lang,
And fold by Fravcis Bailey, Joseph Crukshank, Wit
liam Prichard, and Rick and Co. in Market-Street ; and
by Thomas Dobson, William Young, and Robert
Campbell, in Second-Street, Philadelphia,
Price 121. 6d. (not half the price of the London edition)
The Poems of Ossian,
Translated by J A M F.S MA CPHERSOS, Esa.
W Iff. RE AS .1 ccrtain WILLIAM TUFF, of Salem County.
State of New-Jersey, hai two nine pound notes of hand,
given by ucl Uo'linjhetid, jun. and by certain information, it
appears that my name as a lecurity for ihe fame is added to t'hofe
notes, unknown to me. I hereby forbid any person or persons
from taking any alignment of them from him ; for I am deter
mined not to answer those notes, or anv adignmcnt of them, as T
know nothing of their dealings, nor will I answer for the fame
. , REUBEN ROBINSON.
Cittiher/jad County, Xm. jo, 1790.
THE MERCHANTS,
and
Your most obedient and humble Servant,
VINCENT M. PEI.OSI
This day is published,
No. 21, Church-Alley,
?HR
SON OF FINGAL.
*
H
•v
>
J