PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, MARKET-SfREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 67, of Vol.-ill.]
The Addrejs oj the Hebrew Congregations in the cities of Philadelphia
A r ew-York t Chartcjlon, and Richmond.
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
S I R,
IT is reserved for you to unite in affection for your chara&er
and person, every political and religious denomination of men ;
and in this will the Hebrew Congregations aforefaid yield to no
class of their fellow-citizens.
We have been hitherto prevented by various circumstances pe
culiar to our (ituati«n, from adding our congratulation to those
•which the reft of America have offered on your elevation to the
-Chair of the federal government : Deign, then, illuftriousSir, to
accept this our homage.
The wanders which the Lord of Hods hath worked in the days
»of our forefathers, have taught us to observe the greatness ot his
■wisdom and his might, throughout the events of the late glorious
revolution ; and while we humble ouiielves at his footilool in
thanfgiving and praise for the blefling of his deliverance, we ac
knowledge you the Leader of the American Armies, as his cho
sen and beloved servant. But not to your sword alon.' is our pre
sent happiaefs to be ascribed: that, indeed, opened the way to the
reign of freedom ; but never was it perfectly secure, till your hand
gave birth to the federal constitution ; —and you renounced the
joys retirement, to seal by your adminiilration in peace what
you had atchieved in war.
To the e'ernnl God who is thy refuge, we commit in our prayer
the care of thy precious life ; and when full of years thou (halt be
gathered unto the people, thy 1 ighteoufnefs shall go before thee,
and we (hall remember, amidst our regret, " that the Lord hath
set apart the Godly for himfelf," whilst thy name and thy virtues
■will remain an indelible memorial on our minds.
MANUEL JOSEPHSON,
For and in behalf and under the authority of the several
Congregations aforefaid.
Philadelphia, Dec, 1790.
To which the Prejident was pleased to return the following dnfwer.
TO THE HEBREW CONGREGATIONS,
In the city of Philadelphia, New-York, Charlejlon and Richmond:
Gentlemen,
THE liberality of sentiment towards each other which marks
everv political and religious denomination of men in this
country, (lands unparalleled in the History ot Nations.
The affe£tion of i'uch a people, is a treasure beyond the reach of
calculation ; and the repeated proofs which my fellow-citizens
have given of their attachment to me and. approbation of my do
ings, form the purcft fourcoof my temporal felictty. The affec
tionate expreflions of your address, again excite my gratitude, and
receive my warmtft acknowledgment.
The power and goodnefsof the Almighty were strongly muni
fefted la -he event* of oa*- U:c glorious rewlutfon ; and his kino
interposition in our behalf, has been no less visible in the eftab-
Jifhment of our present equal government. In war he dire&ed the
sword; and in peace he has ruled in our councils. My agency in
both has been guided by the best intentions, and a sense of the
duty which I owe my country.
And as my exertions have hitherto been amply rewarded by
the approbation of my fellow-citizens, I fha 11 endeavor to de
serve a continuance ol it by my future condu&.
May the fame temporal and eternal bleflings which you implore
for me, reft upon your congregations.
G. WASHINGTON.
THE Secretary of the Treasury in his report of ways and means
for paying the interest which will accrue on the State debts
assumed, and ior a deficicncy in a former estimate,
Dollars
21,500,000
States the amount aflumed at
The annual intercll thereon - *
.Estimated deficiency of the funds already ef-
tablifhed for paying the interefton the ori
ginal debt of the United States, - 3®» 2 9 l 4°
Amount wanted, - Dols. 826,624 73
to raise which sum he proposes that Congress lay additional du
ties on foreign imported spirits, f© that the amount to be imposed
■with what is already imposed by law (to take place on the Ift of
January next) may make the amount of the duty proposed in the
draft of a bill accompanying his report to Congress 011 the 9th of
January last ; and to lay the duties proposed in said bill on spirits
distilled in the United States from foreign materials,-and from
materials of the United States.
The probable product whereof he estimates as follows :
4,000,000 gallons,foreign imported spirits at 8 cents, 320,000
3,500,000 gallons distilled trom foreign materials in
the Unittd States at 11 cents,
3,000, o®o gallons distilled in the United States from
jheir own materials at 9 cents,
Dedufl drawbacks and expence of collection 10 pr.
cent. -
Net produO,
which leaves an overplus of
[The ingenuity and animation of the following pa
ragraphs, from Mr. Bailey's Freeman s Journal, of
tajt IVednefday, mufl inspire corresponding ideas in
every patriotic mind.]
A PERIOD now commences, fays a correfpond
ant, from which future ages /hall derive
new energy given to a republican fyftem,whillt
private and public property <hall be equally secur
ed ; the powerofour rulers, eleifted by ourselves,
enforced by due laws ; morality refpecfled, and
religion revered. Already that form of govern
ment, approved of on mature deliberation, by a
*ast majority of the inhabitants of * re e America,
is in motion. It revolves, through the atmosphere
of reason, on the axis of virtue. Wealth, whe
ther derived from induilry or inheritance ; indti
ftry, which promises to her advocates accession ot
.riches, increase of consequence, and it is hoped,
Saturday, Decems£r 18, 1790.
an augmentation of ,happinefsthe weakness of
age and the ardor of youth, equally look forward
to an sera, merited by patriotism, under the gui
dance of providence.
Whilst many nations, which lately were deem
ed highly civilized, becaufc they exhibited the
gloss of falhion, or boalted the pomp of luxury,
are struggling for a recovery of those rights,
which they tamely or ignorantly surrendered to
one ormore tyrants : the United AmeiicanStates
have eftabliftied a form of rule, which ought ra
ther to be imitated, than envied, by foreign
countries.
France has fnlly caught the sacred flame : Spain
begins to think, that men pofleft, or ought to pos
sess, inherent, unalienable rights ; and every
other region of the civilized world will follow the
example of Independent America, (no part of which
was known to Europe, or the other two quarters
of the globe, 'till about three centuries ago) by
lilteningto the dilates of freedom ; by recover
ing, #or confrming their right* ; by revering
their present or future WASHINGTONS ; and by
evincing, that the world will be more worthy of
liappinefs, when men shall traly acknowledge
the powers of the omnipotent, whose service
is perfect freedom.
But Washington appears in oar great national
council—his voice is heard—that voice, which
gave vigor to war, gives animation to peace. He
looks—and di(Tention is hu/Leil. He speaks—
and harmony returns on the wings of a cherub.
I Let Philadelphians, and others, who heard, felt,
■ and revered his accents, acknowledge, that, al
though virtue has been fometiaies rewarded even
in this world, never did (he receive purer homage,
than at the St.ite-Houfe, of Philadelphia, on the
eighth day of December in the year seventeen
hundred and ninety.
Further Particulars relative to Gen. HARMAR's
£x/rediiion again ft tfie Ho ft He Indians.
Extract oj a letter front the S.cretary of War to the
PreftJent of the United States.
" Lieutenant Denny reports verbally, that af
ter he lefc Fort Washington, he saw in Kentucky
several men cf the militia of that diftriift, who
had beeu out with Major Whitly, under Major
Hamtranck of the federal troops, who command
ed a separate expedition.
" The laid militia-men informed Lieut. Denny
that Major Hamtramck had destroyed several of
the hostile Indian town:., on the Wabafh ; and
had returned to his garrison at Post Vincennes,
without having met any opposition.
1 have the honor to be,
With the highest refped:, SIR,
Your most obedient servant,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
The President of the United States.
Extract from Orders.
Note. The orders ifl'ued previously to the
march of the troops and militia from Fort Wafli
ington, and until they arrived at the Miami Vil
lage, relate to the arrangement of the troops,the
order of of encampment and of battle,
and the discipline neceflary to be observed, all of
which are particularly detailed.
GENERAL ORDERS.
Camp of the Miami Village about 170 miles from Fort
Washington, Otfobern, 1790.
The General is highly pleased with the zeal
and alacrity Ihewn by rhe army (particularly the
corps which was detatched under the command
of Col Hardin) to come up with the Savages, al
tho it vvas impra<Sticable, as they had evacuated
their favorite towns, before the light corps could
possibly reach them.
Leaving behind them ftich a vast quantity of
corn and vegetables is a certain .''ign that they I
decamped in theutmoft consternation, and dare
not face the army.
The army is to remain in its present position
until further orders ; in the mean time, Quarte
r Pratt is to have the corn brought in and
deposited in one place, or in as many houses as
he can find, and a guard is to be placed over it
for its security. He will receive directions how
it is to be difti ibuted.
The ruperintendant of the horse department
(Mr. Caldwell) is tobe relponfiblethat his pack
faddles are repaired, and put in as good order as
possible, ready for the next movement of the army.
The General calls upon the commanding offi
cers ofbattalions not to fuflferthe men to straggle
from the encampment, otherwise they will cer
tainly ltand in danger of being scalped.
788,333 33
385,000
170,000
975>000
97'5°°
Dols. 877,500
50,875 17 cents.
673
Ukso
[Whole No. 171.]
The guards are to be extremely vigilant, to
which the field officer of the day is to pay the
mod pointed attention.
A detachment under the command of Lr,
Commandant Trotter, consisting of
Federal Troops
Major Fontaine's light horse
Active riflemen
are to march to-morrow early.
Lieutenant Colonel Commandant Trotter will
receive his orders from the General.
JOS. HARMAR, Brig. Gen.
(To be continued.)
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
August jth, 1790.
M. Barrere in behalf of the committee of do
maines, on the motion of M. Marfanne Fonjuli-
tfmc.
Yoar committee of domaines has been inftrudl
ed to present to you their opinion on the sup
pression of the Droit d' Aubaine. This tax origi
nated at a time when there was no communica
tion among people ; it belonged to the King, to
the revenue, to the nation, who succeeded to the
foreigner not naturalized, to the foreigner na
turalized when he died inteitate, and to the na
tive, who in quitting France, had abandoned hi 9
country. In considering this tax with relation
to the conltitution and to legislation, your prin
ciples and your decrees have already determined,
under the report of fifcality, that it did not pre
sent great advantages, as its produce amounted
not quite to 40,000 livres. The committee have
charged me to present to you the following pro
ietfl of a decree.—
The National Assembly, after having heard
their committee of domaines, conceive that the
Droit d'Auba'tne is contrary to those principles of
brotherly love which ihould connedt all men of
whatever country or government ; that this tax,
cftablifhed in times of barbarity, ought to be a
bolished by a people, who have founded their
constitution agreeable to the rights of man and
of the citizen ; and that France, being free,
fhotild open its bosom to all the people of the
earth, by inviting them to enjoy under a free go
vernment, the sacred and unalienable rights of
humanity; has decreed, and does hereby decree
as follows.—
ift. The Droit d'Aubaine and that of Detrafiisn
are aboliflied forever.
2d. All proceedings, prosecutions and inquisi
tions which have these taxes for their object, are
quashed.
This project of a decree was unanimously a
dopted and without discussion.
St[>t. 26. Only 50s Members were present, not
nearly half of these who compose the Aflembly.
M. Emmery was elected President. He then
informed the Aflembly, that M. Cernon, in the
name of the Committee, of Finance wished to
make his report on the Exigencies of the state.
He was, consequently, introduced, and deliver
ed an account of the atilualftate of the Treasury.
M. Freteau wiilied to know what was become
of the money which was coined laftyear, and of
the patriotic donations ? This question induced
M. Mirabeau, to make a long harangue on the
defects, and abuses which fbamefully exist in this
momentary fyftein. Heaffirmed, that they were
so dangerous to the public prosperity, that their
crowns and louis are sure to be sweated on ac
count of the enormous profit which is the conse
quence. He put the Aflembly in mind of an af
lertion which he had made on a former occasion,
that every piece of plate sent to the Mint, was to
be considered as an ingot sent to London.
Ordered, that the Caifle d'Efcompte furnifh
I ihe Treasury with 10 millions ot livres.
BOSTON, Dec. 4.
The demand for the produce of our country is
rapidly increasing. To fliew, in part, the extent
of this great source of national Wealth, we men
tion, it as a fad, that one house in an adjacent
town, has exported and fold, the late season, 2000
barrels Pot and Pearl-Afhes—2ooo barrels Beef—
500 barrels Pork— 70,000 weigh: of Butter— tsoo
burtiels Peas and Beans, besides other produce.
The quantity of beef annually, exported from
this State, is upwards of 45,000 barrels—of which
Jonathan Winship, Esq. of Little-Cambridge,
(whose beef is so highly valued in foreign pares)
[annually puts up 5000 barrels.
Col.
AO
230
Total 300CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
SATURDAY Dec. n.
(Debate concluded from oar 'ufl.)
Mr. Seney said he could not conceive what
groundof a'pprehenfion there was in the addrsft,
to lead gentlemen to suppose that the opinion of
the house would be committed by its adoption—
He thought it couched in the molt general and
unexceptionable terms: The amendment pro
pofed,he didaiot think vary'd eflentially from the
paragraph under consideration—but as the ori
ginarwas well exprefltid, he law no reason for ex
punging theclaufe—it contained an aflertion,the
truth of which he fuppafed would not be contro
verted. As to the objection against going into-a
detail of particulars, it was fully jultiried by pre
cedent in the last address—-the gentleman from
South Carolina, if his memory served hiin, was
on the committee who framed it—that address
more pointedly committed the house than the
j>r*feut.
Mr. Madison thought proper to take some no
ace of the objection , that had been niaile to the
report. There were two modes of proceeding,
he said, that might be adopted in drawing up the
answer. The firft method was generally to de
clare, that the House would take into their seri
ous coniideration the business recommended to
their attention by the President : And this, he
observed, would be faying nothing, for as by the
constitution it was the Frefident's duty to eom
mimicate what matters he judged of importance;
so it was undoubtedly that of the house to pay at
tention to the objects recommended. The,fecond
method was, to enter into a detail of the different
points mentioned in the President's address, and
in fucli cases where there was no doubt as to the
propriety of measures' being taken, allure him in
the answer, that measures would be adopted ;
and if any thing doubtful occurred, merely pro
mise that the fubjedt should be attended to. This
rule the committee had followed in drawing up
their report, and as in the business mentioned in
the paragraph now before the house, they did not
hesitate to believe some measures neceflkry, they
could fee no impropriety in afTuring him that the
best would be adopted. He added, that as it is
clear that a war in Europe would by depriving us
of foreign bottoms to export our produce, injure
this country ; and as wars were doubtful, it was
of the utmost importance that the American navy
be put on so refpe<flable a footing as not to need for
eign aid for the exportation of jher produce. He
further obferved,that the answer returned laflfef
fion, was more full, and went even to give the
President afliirances that the house would concur
in certain points proposed for their consideration
111 his address. He concluded by remarking, that
the amendment proposed was binding 011 the
House quite as much as the paragraph in the
report.
Mr. Bmith said it wa? true those who reported the addrtfs the
last feflion, adverted to particulars, but were cautious in their
mode of expreflion, and adopted ambiguous language to avoid
giving an opinion : This would appear by recurring to that ad
drefr : The charge of mconfiftenuy on his pari, was therefore not
•well founded. Mr. Smith read foine paragraphs of that address,
and obTeived, that the houfc was not pledged by the expressions
then read ; but in the present address, there is an opinion given :
It fays that we ought not to depend on foreign bottoms* because
in cafe of war we may be deprived of that resource. These de
clarations originate the obje&ions, and gave rife to the proposed
amendment. He proposed therefore, as gentlemen appear to have
no objo&ion to either mode of expreflion,that they would accom
modate for the fake of haimony and unanimity.
WEDNESDAY, Dec. ij, 1790.
IT should have been mentioned in our last that
Mr. Ranfellaer took his l'eat on Tuesday.
A petition from A. E. Lutterloh wasprefented
by Mr Bloodworth, which was read and laid 011
the table.
Mr. Lawrance presented the petition of Timo
thy Mix—refered to the Secretary at War.
Mr. Fitzfimons presented the petition of Tho
jnas Randal!—read and refered to the Secretary
of the Treafury.—Alfothe petition of John Linn,
<—referred to theSecretaiy at War.
The motion laid on the table by Mr. Smith,
rtfpecting the Enlogium on Dr. Franklin, was
called for by that gentleman and parted.
Mr. Ames presented the petition of Jofiali
Simpfon, in behalf of sundry persons who had
performed services as blacksmiths, for which they
have not received due compenfatian—read and
refered to the Secretary at War.
Mr. Gerry presented the petitions of Reuben
Gold and Amos Davis refered to the Secretary
at War.
Mr. Burke presented the memorial of
which was read and rcfered to the Se
cretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Jackson moved that leave be given tobriiig
in a bill to continue an adt, declaring the aflent
of Congress to certain atfts of the State of Rhode
Island, Maryland a»d Georgia, which will expire
the 10th dayofjannary next.
A Committee was accordingly appointed con
| lifting of Mefl'rs. Jackson, Ames and Stu.ges.
On motion oflir. Smith, (S. C.) the HouSe
resolved itfelf int« a committee of the whole,
(Mr. Livermore ii the chair) and took into con
sideration the Speech of the President of the Unit
ed States, to both Houses of Congress. Ihe
Speech was read by the Clerk—after which Mi.
Smith (S. C.) recapitulated the several lubjec r ts
Specially Suggefled to the Consideration of the
House, by "the Speech; he diftingui/hed Such
parts of the Speech as were already in train, by
being reSered the lall Selfion to heads of depart
ments, and others which have been refered to
committees ; and then moved a reSolotion with
a blank to be filled up with Such articles as are
not already particularly provided for, iby being
refered or committed.
Mr. Boudinot was in favor of chufing a com
mittee to confer with the Senate on the mode of
taking up the several parts of the speech.
Mr. Vining was in favor of Mr. Smith's moti
on.
Mr. Lawrance said that it appeared to him
that tlie usual mode of conlulering the speech,
would be the bed ; he therefore thought it pro
per that it lhould be taken up 111 paragraphs —
and where it appeared that particular parts were
already difpol'ed of, to let them be palled over;
and with refpetft"to others, committees might be
appoinred, as the committee of the whole may
determine.
Mr. Clymer fujpofed, that agreeable to the de
termination o£ ths House lsut leltion, the whole
business lhould betaken up dt novo.
TheChairinanobferved that ds the whole speech
was now before the Committee, it remained to
proceed to the d.fcuflion of the several parts —
pursuant to which he Ihould read it paragraph by
paragraph, and the committee Would determine
refpetfting them, as they saw proper—this appear
ed to him to be. the natural way of doing the bu
siness.
Mr. Vining said the difficulty appeared to ori
ginate in the mode—for his part, he thought the
Jeaft circumlocutory the best, and for that rea
son had fecoudeJ the motion by the gentleman
from South Carolina.
The motion of Mr. Smith lay on the table—and
the Chairman to read the speech in
paragraphs.—On reading the paragraph refpect
ingthe Indian expedition, Mr. Smith moved that
the article Should be inserted in the blank in his
motion.
Mr. Lawrance supposed it best to pass over this
article.
Mr. Vii\ing concurred in the sentiment with
Mr. Lawrance.
Mr. Hartley was opposed to paflingthis matter
over—the profpedt that further hol'tilitics would
take place between the inhabitants of the fron
tiers and the Indians rendered it highly neceflary
that something fhouldbe done iinnicdiaiely.
Mr. Seney said he had m> idea that any gentle
man in the committee had it in view to pass over
this business entirely—Hill he thought it impossible
to determine at once whaa is proper to be done 011
every fubjed't—The mode proposed by the gentle
man from South Carolina.appeared to him calcula
ted to commit thejudgment of the House.
Mr. Lee obferved,that as the committee as fuel),
had no right to appoint a committee ofany kind,
he thought that any thing further than expref
hng the sense of the committee on the several
pans of thefpeech, would be improper ; with this
vi?w he submitted a resolution to the following
effect, on the paragraph respecting Indian affairs,
viz. Resolved, that it is the opinion of the com
mittee that the present posture of Indian affairs,
requires the lerious attention oi the legislature.
This was seconded by Mr. Seney.
Mr. Smith obje&ed to this motion as it did not
bring the object fully before the committee : If
the gentleman would consent that it fliouhl go
so far as to propose the appointment of a select
committee, he should have no objection to it.
Mr. Lee supported his motion.
Mr. Lawrance observed that it appeared to him
that nothing more wasneceffary to be done in this
business, than providing the means of defraying
the expence—-he had supposed it would Jtrike
the committee in this point of light—The expe
diency or inexpediency of the expedition he pre
sumed was not now to be difcufled—The President
does not appeal to the house to determine the
propriety of his conduct—The expedition lias
been approved of by the house in their anfwerto
the President's speech—He therefore moved the
following, Resolved, as the sense of this commit
tee that immediate proviiion ought to be made to
defray the expences ofthe expedition ajrainft the
Indians, N. W. of the Ohio.
Mr. Lee withdrew his motion—and that of Mr.
Lawrance being put was agreed to.
The paragraph refpecfting our navigation being
lead, Mr. Goodhue observed, that the reason as
674
signed by the gentleman from S. Carolina, for
palling over ciiac part of the Prelident's speech,
that this fubjetf: was connected with the lilheries
on which a report from the Secretary of the i rea
fury, was expe<fted, did not appear fulficient to
himtojuftify thetr palfing it over—He therefore
moved thelollowing, Rtjolvcd, as the lenle ot this
committee, that a committee ought to be appoint
ed to bring in a bill for the further encourage
ment of the navigation of the United States.
Mr. Smith, obierved that he thought tliefub
ject was refered to the Secretary ot State—He
read a paragraph from the speech to fliew it was
connected with the fiiheries. He wifhedlforafuf
penfion of tiie buiin'efs, as the exact ftateofaffairs.
in Europe <vas at present unknown.
Mr. Fitzfimons laid that the reasons offered
were fuliicient to prevent al'uddon decilion—but
did not in his opinion render it improper to rake
up the fubjec r t immediately—He should be op
posed to an ultimate decilion till the fullelt in
formation is obtained.
Mr. Vining eiuered into a general considera
tion of the subject ; lie thought the present the
critical moment in which this interesting bnfinels
(hould be difculled on its own proper principles j
he thought tliepropofed resolution did not enter
fully en«ugh into the merits of the fubjec f t, agree
able to the ideas fuggelted by the Prefid'ent ; he
therefore proposed a resolution which went to
express the femiments of the house refpeiting
making provision for the transportation of Ame
rican produce, in American bottoms.
Mr. Goodhue objected to the motion of Mr.
Vining at the present moment, though he fully
accorded with him in principle, he tho'ughr the
motion he had submitted would more generally
meet the present ideas of the committee.
Mr. Jackson opposed Mr. Vining's motion ; he
said though he was ajrainlt taking any measures
atprefent, he preferred the relolution of the
gentleman from Salem
O
Mr. Viuing withdrew liis motion.
Mr. Goodhue's motion being put, pafled in the.
affirmative.
.The paragraph refpe&ing the Mediteranean
trade being read—Mr. Smith moved the follow
ing. Resolved, that fiich part of the Prefldent's
speech as relates to the trade to the Mediteranean,
be referred to the Secretary of State ; agreed to.
On the fiibjects of weights and measures, Mr.
Vining moved the following. Resolved, as the
sense of this committee, that a committee ought
to be appointed to bring in a bill or bills pro
viding for the.cilablilhment of a uniform lland
ard of weights and measures throoghout th«" Uni
ted States.
Mr. Boucllnot suggested the propriety of pall
ing over this business at present ; he mentioned
a reaion offered by the Secretary of State, that
there was to be a convention in Europe on this
particular business ; the result of ihe meeting is
not yet known.
Mr. Law ranee proposed that as the report of
the Secretary of the Treafut y had not been a<ft
ed upon, that it should now be refered to * com
mittee of the whole house.
Mr. Vining observed that if that report was
tobedifcufled by the house, they mult divest
themselves of the cliafaifter of politicians and as
sume that of philosophers ; the discussion he con
ceived would employ the committee till next
March, 12 months. He thought the mode he pro
posed would be found more Ample, and the com
mute appointed would naturally avail themselves
of the Secretary's report.
Mr. (S. C.) was in favor of taking up the Se
cretary's report in committee of the whoje.
Several members spake against Mr. Vining's
motion, which being put, was loft.
The discussion being gone through, the com
mute rose and reported the resolutions they had
agreed to which being read, are as follows :
Refolded, as the opinion of this committee, that
immediate proviiion be made to detray the ex
penses of the expedition against the Indians,
North Weft of the Ohio ; this resolution was
agreed to, and referred to the Secretary of the
Treasury.
Resolved, as the-fenfe of this committee, that
a coinmitte ought to be appointed to bring in a
bill or bills making further provision for the en
couragement of the navigation of the United
States ; agreed to by the house, and referred to
a committee of twelve.
Resolved, that such parts of the Prefident'ft
speech as refers to the Mediterranean trade, be
referred to the Secretary of State.
On motion of Mr. Boudinot it was resolved,
that the report of the Secretary of the Treasury
on the fubjecliof the unappropriated lands—and
the inilitutinga land office, be referred to a com
mittee of the whole house on Friday next.
Oidered, That one hundred copies be printed,
for the uie of the house.
On motion of Mr. Smith* (S. C.) the report of
the Secretary of State 011 the fubied: of Weights
and Measures, was referred to the committee oi
the whole house on Wednelday next.
Adjourned.THURSDAY, Dec. 16.
Mr. Seney presented a petition from the citizens of Baltimore
town, praying for the eftabliibment of an Health-Oiiice iu that
ou the table.
Mr. Fitzfimons presented the petition of Isaac Mansfield, a late
Chaplain in the Continental Army.
Mr. Jackson from the committee appointed, brought in a bill
t>o continue an Aft,declaring the assent of to certain Afcts,
«>f the states of Rhode-Island, Maryland and Georgia. Read the
firft time.
In committee of the whole on the militia bill. Mr. Liver
more in the Chair.
The committee made some progress in the difcuflion of the bill.
Seyeral amendments and alterations were pi op oted and fa me of
them adopted.
Mr. Oilman moved that persons upwards of 45 years of age,
instead of upwards of 50, as in the bill, Ihouid not be enrolled in
the militia. This motion wa& agreed to.
A motion made by Mr. Parker, that such persons, as are unable
to furnilh themselves with military accoutrements, Ihouid be (üb
plied by the United Slates, after some debate was negatived.
The residue of the conversation this day was on the fubjedt of
exemptions irom militia duty. Several motions were made; but
no cflVntiai alterations took, place in the bill. A ikeich of the de
bates this day is prepared ; but the length of the preceding pre
vents its appearing till our next.
FRIDAY, Dec. 17.
Hon. Benjamin Bourne, Esq. Member from Rhode island, ap"
peared, produced his credentials, was qualified, and took hit feai*
Hon. J. Hathorne and J.Sevier, alio took their feats this day.
Mr.Seney moved thattjie petition from the town of Baltimore
should be referredto a feleft committee.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) observed, that as the fubjeft of regulating
Harbors," &c. would undoubtedly come before the legifluture, and
a general pro.vision be made refpe&ing the object of the petition
—he submitted it to the gentleman whether it would not be bell
that this petition should be referred to the committee that would
be appointed lor that purpose.
Mr. Seney acquiesced, as he faidhis wish was to have this petition
referred to a feleft committee.
Mr. Madison prcfented a petition from Francis Taylor—which
was referred t© the Secretary of War.
On motion of Mr. Gilman, the petition of Ifeac Mansfield,was
referred to the Secretary of War.
An Address was presented from the people called Quakers,
praying an exemption from militia duties, and penalties on that
account.
The bill for continuing an Ast declaring the consent of Con
gress to certain Acts of fcveral states, was read the second time,and
ordered to be cngroffed for a third reading,
A message was received from the Senate informing, that they
have palled a bill supplementary to an ast making further provi
sion for the debts of the United States, in which they desire the
concurrence of the House, which was rrad the firifc time.
In committee of the whole, on the Militia bill.—The fubjtft
of exemptions occasioned further debate. The committee agreed
to sundry alterations, and proceeded iu the difcuiEon to the 3d
fcftion ; they then rose and reported progress.
Adjourned till Monday next
BOSTON,
In alate paper, the nntnber ofvelleh in the port
of Philadelphia, was stated to be 148 —on the
day this account wa9 publiihed in this town,
(nov. 3.) a gentleitvan took pains to count the
veffpts ia ttiiiharbour-—and Foundthat there were
then in this port, 21.6 above 50 tons burthen—
78 of which were fqu are-rigged yeliejs
PORTLAND, Nov. 29.
DIS'iRICT OF MAINE.
On Thursday last arrived here ihe (hip Ariad
ne, Capt. John Mufley, in fifty three days from
Bourdeaux.—The political affairs of France are
in the utmost confufiqn —Paper bills of credit,
funded on the late property of the Clergy, are
in general circulation.—French guineas and
French crowns arc rarely seen.—Dollars may be
purchased, but at an advanced price : For the
paper currency has evidently depreciated. A
number of French ships of war had been dispatch
ed to 1 Martinique for the sole purpose of quelling
the disturbances in that Island—The Markets at
Bourdeaux were extremely low.—Captain3 D.
Smith and E. Preble, of this town, were there
■when Capt. Mufley failed
£xtrafl oj a letter from Paris> Sept. 13, 179 0 '
" Mr. Necker left Paris on the evening of the Bth ioft. This de
parture, which almost wore the appearance oi a clandestine retreat,
so far from exciting the lead sentiment of public regret, was on
thecoutrary highly fatisfa&ory to a crowd ot persons, whose aver
sion to this minister this year, is as groundless as was the enthusiasm
ihey discovered laftyear.
" In the month of August, 17&9, the return of Mr. Necker to
ihe capital was a triumphal entry. The people infilled upon
drawing his carriage—the streets and public squares were illumi
nated—the air rung with shouts of joy and applause—he was the
saviour of France. To fpsak with moderation of his personal qua
lities, or his administration, was a tort of high treason against the
nation. To appear to doubt his genius, or his virtue, was confef
ling one's felf an Aristocrat. And in the midst of the general de
lirium, which on the evening of that ever memorable entry perva
ded the capital, the fatal lamp chord would perhaps have punifh
cd the temerity of him who should not have proltrated himfelf
before the national idol of the day.
"In the month of September, 1790—a1l is changed !—Oppref
fed with disgust, contradiction anddefpondency, fubjeft to attacks
daily renewed—justly perhaps, but at any rate, bitterly blamed
by fome—infamoufly calumniated by others—torn by the libel
lers, who to the. shame of the Nation* but too often possess them
fclvcs us the public Opinion—abandoned by this public opinion,
which had ever heen the main spring of his political existence,
Mr. Necker finds himfelf compelled, by the universal murmur of
a numerous and powerful party, to resign the helm of State, on
•which he had so long placed his hopes of glory and happiness.—
The fame people which had proclaimed him to be the Saviour of
the State, tumultuoufly demand his difmiflion, of the National Al
fembly—equally ignorant of the reasons why last year he was the
tutelary Genius oj France, and why this year he is suddenly become
its enemy.
" But this is not all. Scarcely had this venerable Minister of
State, of late so popular,now (o strangely difcountcnanccd —scarce-
ly had he left the gate* of Paris, ere.,he was arretted as a fugitive
whofc crimes perhaps mijfht call for public punishment, though
he produoed fuffceient passports from the King, and the Municipa
lity of Paris. On Saturday the 1 tth, Mr. de Jeffe, PrcGaent of
the National Atfembly, introduced a letter received Jby him from
Mr. Necker, then ia a Tavern at Aicy fur Aube a under the ccn
December i
fin em ant of the National Guards ; in which !ettr the Minister
informed the AfTembly of his detention ; and itVt* recalling to
mind his fervin,; the State to the utmost of 1»U ability, supplicated
that they would not futier, that in return for his exertions, he
Ihould be deprived of that personal liberty whidh the laws fecur
cd to fcvery citizen.—After this, was read the report of the Mayor
and munictpaV officers and Notables of Arcy fur Aube, in which
they state that, confiderinj* that the National AfTembly lias de
creed the refponlibility of Ministers of State —that the palTports in
cjueftion, announce Mr. Neckfr's departure from Fiance, and that
responsibility is null when the fubje£l Has parted the frontiers;
therefore the people, sensible of the importance of the principles
of refponfibity, have determined to detitn Mr. Necker, and his
fellow travellers, till orders tor their relcafe should be received
from the National AfTembly.
41 After some debate the .Afljmbly r4fo!vcd , That the President
should have it in charge to answer to the Municipality, that no de
layJhould be offered to the journey if Mr. Meeker, and his companions;
and that the President inould write particularly to Mr. Necker,
and read his letter to the Aflembjy. This being immediately
done by M. de Jcffe, the miflive was found to be extremely dry
and laconic, being nothing more than an inclofure of the decree.
A Grange contrail with the (entiments exprefTed a vear before to
the Minister, by an AfTembly, which perhaps owes its existence
to him : But, at the fame tune, a ft.rik.ing lei Ton (in addition to so
many others) for those who are intoxicated with the fumes of po
pularity, and to those who might be tempted to facrifice their
tranquility for the attainment of this empty phantom.
4t At the time that Mr. Necker thought himfelf obliged to quit
the icenc, his grand adversary, de Calonne conceived the mo
ment to be favorable tp his rr-appejrance. He has just published
" Observations on Financt," aadreffed to the AfTembly. In th*
preface to this work, the mod copious abuse is heaped upon Mr.
Necker, and his adminiflration.
BALTIMORE, Dec. 10.
On Tuefdav lift the ship Sampson, Capt. Thomas Moore, arri
ved here from London. In this vessel came paflengrr the Right
Rev. D»6lor John Carroll, recently coofecrated Bilhop of the Ca
tholic Chutch in the United States. On the landing ot this learn
ed and worthy prelate, he was refpe&fully waited on by a num
ber of his fellow-citizens of variotfs denominations, who conduc
ed him to his refidencc. In the fame vessel also came passenger
(and was landed in Virginia) the Faght Rev. Doctor James Madi
son, Bifbop of the Episcopal Church of Virginia, who was, on
the 20thof September last, consecrated at Lambeth Chapel, Lon
don, by his Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury, aififted by the
3ifhops of London and Rochester.
Philadelphia, Dec. 18.
By the PittfbuVg paper of the 4<h inft. we have received the fol
lowing particulars of the WESTERN EXPEDITION. A party
of 600 men arrived at the Miami Village two days before the maiu
army, and found the town deserted, ;.ad fomcof the houte® burnt,
under the ruins of which large quantities of grain were found con
cealed ; also in hole! in the ground, to the amount of or cooo
bushels. Col. riarden who commanded all the militia, entered
and encamped in the town before the arrival of the remainder of
the army. About five acres of the ground was picketed—A party
of 300, under the command of Col. Trotter, and Major Rhea, were
fentout, and dilcovercd the trails of the Indians for several miles.
They saw 30 Indiana, but did not attack them—not knowing but
there was a superior force in their tear. They saw 5 towns which |
were all burnt. The next day Major Fontaine, with a party oi I
200, and the horte, went out —tbey proceeded 6 or 7 miles,
saw trails of Indian* in leveral places. Marching in columv.i in a
swamp, Lieut. Armstrong who commanded one of the columns,
was ambutcaded by a paity of Indians, formed in a half moon.
Our people retreated -The Indians rushed in with their toma
hawks—The regulars bayoneting them till Armstrong's men were
all cut off—Many of the Indians fell—We loft 70 men this 'lay.
Next day was employed in burning corn—we killed 2 Indians.
The day following set out and marched 8 miles homeward and
encamped. In the night Col. Harden, Major •» yilys, Major Fon
taine, McMullan, and Col. Hall, with about 400 men,
went back to the town—ihey arrived about day light, and in four
parties marched to different cutter* of the town—eaci: party
was attacked, and Ikirmiftied three hours. Major McMullen
drove a party of the Indians into the r.ver Miami. Col. Harden
was obliged to retreat with iols. Maj*r Y/yliy*, with about 60
men, were cut off by a party which ca.i;* \u his rear through ,ome
hazels. Lieut. Frothingham teil at lijis time. , Major Fontaine
having ordered his men to retreat, of counge rode
directly back into the throng of the In awns, cutting and uafking.
nil he was wounded, and canied on by two o; his men ; he was
afterwards seen dead and Icalped. ]Vi<*jor yll ys "was left mor
tally wounded ; he wifoed to be helped on his horse :ogivc tnem
another charge; but in the hurry of the wircat it cou!d not be done.
The whole amount of the Indians kkk'u u. iuppofed to be 20C.
Our loss is about 160 killed and 20 wcdnci.'c.
The foregoing is the account brought by fetcrftl of the militia
who are returned.
The last purchaTe of public debt made by ttic Treasurer of the
United States, which wason Tuefdsy Uft-he gave fifteen shil
lings and ten pence on the pound, • for fundca fix p er cents*
Since which they are got ap*to 16/8. and are (till nfi.ig.
V/ednefday evening the Hon Judge Y.'ilfon, lav/ profeffor in
the College of Philadelphia, delivered hi* intioauttcry letture in
the College-hall. The President of the UnitedStai.es, with his la
dy—also the Vice-Prefideot, and both houses ot Congress —the
President and both houses of the Legislature of Pcunfylvaaaa, to
gether with a great number of ladies and gentlemen, were pre
fer! t ; the whole composing a molt brilliant and refpe&able au-
dience.
After Mr. Wilson's le&ure, a commencement was held for
conferring Do&ors degrees in medicine. The bufmefs of the com
mencement was introduced by an address from Dr. Rulh, pro
feffor of the theory and pra&ice of medicine in the College. The
candidates, Isaac Sayre, A. B. of New-Jersey, and Moses Bar
tram, A. B. of Philadelphia, were then examined on the fubjed
of their refpe&ive theses—the former in EngUfh, on the cauje and
cure of pulmonary c&nfuniption ; the latter, in Latin on Aliments.
The degree of Do&or of Medicine was conferred on both by the
Provost ; also the degree of Do&or of Laws on th; Hon. James
Wilson, Francis Hopkinfon, and Edward Shippen, Esquires.
The important fubjetfts of deliberation fabmit
ted to the National Legislature—and on which
they will be called to decide, mult render the
debates of the prelent fellion highly interelling.
from past experience we juitly antic:pate a
full and candid ilifcullion of every proportion ;
and the success of public measures already adopt
ed, will doubtlels inspire a confidence in all parts
of the Legislature, iri discharging the powers
with which they arc inverted by the Conftiturion.
Onr commerce, our navigation, our agricul
ture and manufactures, thole greac objedts of na
tional concern> on the profperuy ot which de
pends that of every individual citizen of the
United States, derive an invigorating principle
675
from the Speech of the President of the United
Strtes.—They appear to have engrofled a great
fiiere of his contemplations during the reeefs—
and with that zeal with which he embraces every
idea with the public liappinefs, he re
commends them to the serious confederation of
the National Legislature.
The eftabliihinent of a judiciary fy/tem for the
United States, is afubject on which the greatest
diversity of opinions has been entertained—when
this business came before the legillature of the
Union, the division of sentiment without doors
did not appear to be excluded from Congress.—
After long and interelting debates, in which the
moll: patriotic concern for the rights of the peo
ple an*lthe particular states, was abundantly ex
emplified : the public judgment preponderated
in favor of such afyftein ; and accordingly the
law eitabliiliing the neceflary courts was palled.
But the legillature feelingly interested in the
happiness of the people, and the security of their
persons and properties, keeping in view the im
perfection, and consequent pofiibility of improve
ment of every human inrtitution, at the close of
the laftfeilion, directed the Attorney-General to
make report at the present, of such alterations and
impiovements in the fyllem, as experience may
dictate to be neceflary, or the public good may
require.
From the acknowledged abilities of that re
fpe&able character, we may expect much jufticc
will be done the fubjedr.
The organization of the militia of the United States, is a mofE
important fubjeft of legiflatiye consideration ; the observation of
the President of the United States, that the preient time affords the
most favorable opportunity to lay the foundation of an efficient
and competent militia, by availing ourselves of the experience and
abilities of our the officers ot the late continental
array—is a trait of that everwakeful vigilance, which fuffers no
thing to escape its attention, that may contribute to the crcdit and
security of the United States : this idea is weighty, and will doubt
less have a due influence on the minds of our civil fathers, in ex
pediting the militia establishment of the Union.
TheSenatore—whofe times expire inMarch next
are Hon. Me (Ira. Carrol, Dalton, Eifwortli, El
mer, Folter, Hawkins, Maclay, llead, and Schuy
ler. Messrs. Carrol, Elfworth, Foster, and Read,
arc re-eledted for fi:c years.
M. Duperne has been appointed Ordonnatuer
du Trefor Publiqueor dire&or of the public
Treasury of France, in the room of M. Necker.
The paragraph handed us refpe&ing American paper we cannot
suppose is well tounded—the specimens of almoil every Tpecie*
itianufa£tured in this ftatc which have been feat to Eit^laad —have
aftoniflied the manufactured m that country—consequently we
cannot suppose that the quality of our paper is not equal to eveiy
public and private life whatever.
The following ciiaraifler of the Comedy en
titled the Father, or American Slimidy-Kin, ap
peared in a JateCeorge- Town paper :—As this
excellent Comedy very justly Hands in the firft
rank of American productions, and equal to any
of the most finilhed European dramatic pieces,
it is presumed, that it cannot fail of proving not
only an agreeable, but a very pleaiing Evening's
Entertainment ; it being replete with ftnlimcnts
\ wholly calculated ro improve, reform, and refine
the heart, whillt, at the fame time, it diverts,
amnfes, and delights.
AT an adjourned meeting of the Hibekniak Society
for the relief of Emigrants from Ireland, the following gentle
men were re-elcftedofficers for the ensuing year :
The Hon. Thomas McKean, Esq. President,
Gen. Walter Stewart, Vice-President,
Mr. Mathew Carey, Secretary,
Mr. John Taylor, Trcafurer.
Charles Heaily, Sfq. and > Councilors.
Jasper Moylan, Esq. )
Dr. James Cunningham and > p hvfic ; arlJ>
Dr. John Carson, S
PRICE CURR£iir,——PUBLIC SECURITIIS.
FUNDID DXAT.
6 pr. Cents 16/4. i6Ji.pr.£.
3 pr. Cents 8/4 8/1.
Sefered 6 pr. Cents 7/4. 7/6.
UNFUNBED OUT
final Settl. and othej Certificates 14/4 —1418.
Indents 8/4 8/5.
State debts • 9/ 9/3.
To the Merchants, Traders, Foreigners, and the Public in general.
Gentlemen,
AGREEABLY to the plan which the Subscriber submitted to
the public confederation, and under the mod flattering alTur
ance of public patronage, he takes the liberty of announcing, that
THE MERCHANTS,
and
EXCHANGE COFFEE HOUSE,
will be opened at the corner of Market and Water-Streets, for the
accommodation of the Merchants, Traders, and other Citizens o£
Philadelphia, on MONDAY next, the«oth mft.
The Subscriber deems it unnecessary to repeat the declaration®
of his fincei e intention to profecutc his undertaking with.jhe moit
refpe&fol afliduity : But he tannfit forbear making a piltlic ack
nowledgment of his gratitude, forthe eccouragemr . he has alrea
dy experienced ; nor |suppress his, invariable wilh, thai those gen
tlemen who may honor hisCoffee-Houfe with their prcfence, will
communicate such articles of intelligence received from their cor
respondents as thay shall think proper, and in preference, will up
on every occasion, point out the defers of his plan, or favor him
with hints for improving its execution. cM
The Sobfcribei will prepare entertainments,either at noon, or in
the evening, for fele£l paities, upon the fhortcilnotice, and on the
molt reasonable terms. He can accommodate two or three Gen
tlemen with lodgings ; and proposes at two o'clock on each day,
when the public bulinefs of the Coffee-Room is over, to provide at
cheap, but good and plentiful ordinary, for such guelU zi (hall
please to honor him with their company.
1 am, Gentlemen,
Your nioft obedient and htimble Servant,
Dec. 18.
or 83} pr. cent,
or 42J do.
3?i do.
711 d».
4»i *•»
46* afc.
jVINCENT M-iP£LOSI.FROM THE COLUMBIAN (BOSTON) CENTINEL.
COLUMN ON BEACON-HILL.
THE column which has lately been erected on Beacon-Hilly by
the fubfcripti©n of a number of the inhabitants of this town,
is a plain column of the Dorick order, ratfed on its proper pedel
tal, and substantially built of brick and stone. On each fide of
the pedestal is an inscription, adapted to render the column of use
in commemorating the leading events of the American Revolu
tion—as well as an ornament to the Hill, and a ufeful landmark.
From the advanced season of the year, and itsexpofed lituatioq,
it has been found impoflible to complete it until the spring, when
it is to be incrufted with a white cement ; and a large Eagle of
■wood gilt, supporting the American arms, is to be placed above.
The whole height of this Column including the Eagle, will be
6® feet. The diameter of the Column is 4 feet, and of the Pedes
tal 8 feet.
Ivfcription on the South fide.
To commemorate
that TRAIN of EVENTS,
which led
to the AMERICAN REVOLUTION,
and finally secured
LIBERTY and INDEPENDENCE,
to the UNITED STATES;
This Column is ere&ed
by the voluntary contribution
of the citizens
of Boston,
On the Weji fide.
Stamp Ast patted 1765, repealed 1766.
Board of customs established 1767.
Antifh troops fired on the inhabitants of Boston, March 5, 177 0 '
Tea Ast passed 1773.
Tea destroyed in Boston, Dec. 16.
Port of Boston shut and guarded June 1, 1774-
General Congress at Philadelphia, Sept. 5.
Provincial Congress at Concord, Oft. li.
Battle at Lexington, April 19, 1775.
Battle at Bunker.H'll, June 17.
WASHINGTON took command of the Army, July 2.
Boston evacuated March 17, 1776.
Independence declared by Congiefs, July 4.
HANCOCK, Prcjidcnt.
On the North Jide.
Capture of Heflians at Trenton, December 26, j
Capture of Heflians at Bennington, Aug. 16, 1777.
Capture of British Army at Saratoga, Oft. 17-
Alliance with France, Feb. 6, 1778.
Confederation of the United States, formed July 9.
Constitution of Maflachufetts, formed 1780.
BOWDOIN, President of Convention.
Capture of Britifli Army at York, October 19, 1781.
Preliminaries of Peace, Nov. 30, 178'.;.
Definitive Treaty of Peace, Sept. 10, 1783.
Federal Constitution, formed September 17, 1787.
and ratified by the United State s, 1787 to 1790.
New Congress aflembied at New-York, April 6, 1790.
WASHINGTON inaugurated President April 30.
Public Debts funded, Aug. 4, 1790.
On the Eajl Jide.
AMERICANS!
While from this eminence,
scenes of luxuriant fertility,
of flourifhing commerce,
and the abode«
of SOCIAL HATPINESS,
meet your view,
Forget not those,
who, by their exertions,
have secured to you
these BLESSINGS.
Written, at the requejl on the View from Beacon-Hill'
FROM this blcft spot let laughing Folly hie,
And placid Wisdom lift the searching eye.
On Charlejlown's Heights, each hallow'd scene explore,
While her own river laves the beaten shore ;
There kindred worth, unboafting sorrows Hied,
When deathless Warren bow'd his patriot head ;
Her sacred temple like the Phcenix (hines,
And her long bridge the sister city joins ;
Whose crescent haven's liberal furface smiles,
Clad in the verdure of unnuraber'd isles,
Yon mafly fane rears its ionic fide,
The boast of art, the great Defignn'i* pride.
There Bowdoin sleeps, deaf to his country's praise,
Deaf to the heav'nly poet*s living lays.
See varied charms adorn the circling main,
The peopled isthmus and the velvet plain ;
Here ruddy health the grateful foil divides,
There gen'rous commerce cleaves the yielding tides ;
From culfuv'd vales, fee tow'ring mounts arise,
Their piny summits curtain'd by the ikies ;
Like a new Planet mid thevaft serene,
1.0 rising Harvard swells th' extended scene,
O'er distant regions spreads a ray divine,
Bids other Bowdoin'«, other Winthrop's (hine.
Such Queem of Cities, are thy rich domains,
Andfuch the realm, where godlike Freedom reigns.
PHILENIA.
* The celebrated Mr. Harrifon.
ON LAWYERS, FOR LEGISLATORS.
" O UPPOSE a little village confiding of 100
*3 personS, fliould feleift out 10 of that hun
dred, to make laws for the rest—Suppose further,
3 of the 10 felerted, to be farmers, 3 tobemanu
fatfiurers, 3 to be merchants, and the remaining
one to be a lawyer ; suppose further, that the 10
are equally knowing, and capable of legislating
right, (which by the by, is scarcely fuppofeable)
these 10 meet to make laws most beneficial for the
■whole. The 3 farmers, anxious to promote agri
culture, will naturally favor that branch inoft,
btcaufc it is for their interejl so to do. The manu
facturer, wishing to have his trade flourifh, will
naturally favor his occupation, as much as pofli
ble, becaufeit is for his inter eft foto do.—The mer
chant will nfe all his influence, and exert every
nerve to promote commerce, even if he fliould
Dec. 4, 1790.
MDCCX C
LINES
ruin the other two branches, becauft it is for his
inter*ft so to do. The lawyer, indifferent as to
the promotion of any one particular branch yet
immediately interested in tlie promotion of the
whole, will nfe his influence, that all these three
branches, (liould so harmonise, as that tliegieat
elt encouragement may accrue to all—the gene
ral good will be his happiness and interest, be
cause he is not so immediately connected with
any one branch, as to influence or bias him, one
way or the other. Where men, who are sepa
rated from the body of the people (to be legisla
tors) have different interests to serve, it is almost
iinpoffible that they Ihould expedite business, or
so fyfleinatize their resolutions, as to promote
the general good." lndepen. Chron.
Philadelphia, December 7, i?9®-
/V S the partnerlhip ot John Dun lap and David C. Clay
x\. poole will expire on the fiill day of January, i79 l >
Dav id C.Clay pool E propofestopublifha Newspaper, entitled
The Mail,
and
New Daily Advertiser.
(To ie continued every Evening, Sundays excepted.J
THE MAIL ftiall "be printed "with an elegant new Type, pro
cured for this particular purpoJV, on Paper, equal in size and qua
lity to any of the Newspapers of Europe or America—And the
engages that no Means Ihall be spared to renderthe
Mail and New Daily Advertiser in other refpe£ls worthy
of the Public Patronage, which he now refpc£Hully solicits.
The Price of the Mai l will be Eight Dollars pr. annum, to be
paid at the end of the Year : And Advertisements will be re
ceived on such moderate Terms as to prove fatisfa&ory to those
who may be pleased to favor the Printer with their Commands
in that line.
' Subscriptions are thankfully recrived at No. 48, Market-Street,
by D C. CLAYPOOLE.
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY.
THE Managers as the STATE LOTTERY, present the Public
•with the First C'afs of tl.e Majjachufetts ftmi-annual Stite Lot
tery, which will commcnced p awingin the Reprefentat>ves y Chamber,
in Boilon, on the Seventeenih of March next, or sooner, if the
Tickets shall be disposed of.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
2£,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125,000 Dollars, to be paid in the following Prizes, lubjeft to a
deduttion of twelve and an half percent, for the use of the Com
monwealth.
Prizes.
l
*
3
6
1Q
3°
8o
9°
too
ISO
161
200
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks,
2^ooo.
£3" TICKETS may he had of the several Managers, who will
pay the Prizes on demand— of the TREASURER of t*ic Common
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Store, fraithHn's-Hcad,
Ceurt-Streci, and at other placcs as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jr.n. 1
DAVII) COBB, |
SAMUI'.L COOI'ER, Managers.
GEORGE R. MINOT, I
JOHN KNE£LAND, j
Bojlen, Jul) 28, *(790.
A Dl'lß TIS EM EST.
WHEREAS a cerain WILLIAM TUFF, of Salem County,
State of Ne ha« two nine pound notei of hand,
given Y»y Samuel jJ, juri. and by certaiu information, it
appears that my name as a licurity tor the fame is added to those
nutes, unknown to r.ie. I >-reby forbid any person or persons
from taking any attg'imentof them from him ; for I am deter
mined not to antVrr tliofc note?, or anv alignment of them, as I
know nothing ol tlxir dealings, uor wilt I answer for the fame.
„ , REUBEN ROBINSON.
Cumberland County, A'jp. 30, 1790.
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
TEAS;
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c.
Of the firft Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market-Streets,
John Francis,
Late of Nexv-York, refpe&fully informs the public, that he
has opened a
Commodious Boarding House,
„ N_°-53. Fourth-Street, one door from Race-Street,
VV HERE Gentlemen may be accommodated with
tiEKTEEL BOARDING AXD LODGING,
or Ytar, and on the most moderate terms.
Phila. Nov. 20, 179^ ——[ 2 aw. 3 m.j
This day U published,
By Thomas Lang,
No. 21, Church-Alley,
And fold bv Francis Ba.ley, Joseph Crokihauk, Wil
liam P..ichard, and Rice and Co. in Market-Street; and
by Thomas Dob«on, William Young, and Robert
Lampbeil, in Second-Street, Philadelphia,
Prist 111. 6d. (not half the price of the London edition J
The Poems of Ossian,
SON OF FINGAL.
Trasflated by JAMES MACPHERSON, Es ft .
* Dollars.
JCOOO is
3000 arc
2000
looe
500
200
100
5°
40
3P
4©
*©
8
thi
Ebenezer Hazard,
At No. 128, in Second Street, between Race and Vine Streets,
BUYS AND SELLS ALL KINDS OF
Public Securities.
N. B. Persons having Business to tranfaft at the Public Office*,
may be affilied, or have their Business done for them '(without the
trouble and expence of a personal attendance) on very moderate
Terms. November 29.
PR ICE CUR RENT. PHI LADE L P 111 A.
DECEMBER 17.
ANCHOfcS pr. Ib.
Allum, Englifli, pr. cwt. 36s
Diuo, Rocb pr. lb. 10d
A (hes, pot, per ton, 35 a 37/iox
Arrack pr. gall. ' ics 1 ts6d
Brandy, common, 7 s
Cogniac 8r 4 d
Braziletto, pr. ton. Itl a 16i
Brie)# pr. M 30s
Bread, Ihip pr. cwt. »Bs6d 19 1
Ditto, pilot 35s
Ditto, small water 65;
Beer, American, in bot. £ .
pr. doz. >
pr. bbl. 3 CS
cn f Oak pr.M feet, 4/ior 4/18/
| Merch. pine 4/ \os 4/ 15X
< Sap, do. 2h.ys6d 3i
O I N.Eng. 2lss 21 7.16 d
I. Cedar 4/ 415s
The above are the Shallop prices ;
for the Yard prices add 15spr M.
Brimstone in rolls pr. cwt. 24X
tn ( Irish pr. bbl. 55J 60/
< Boston 50s 55s
cQ ( Country 45* 47sGd
Butter pr. lb. is is 2d
in kegs tod \id
Cedar,red timber pr.foot 2s2s6d
Chocolate pr. lb. 12d
Coal pr. buihel
Coffee pr. lb.
Cinnamon
Calfia 3*
Cheese, Englifli \s6d
Country 6d 7hd
2 f Sper. pr. lb. 3s6d
\ Wax 3f
p Myrtle Wax U2</
5 | Mould,tallow tsaf
3 LDipped io</
Cotton is \d i> 8-
Cut rants
Dollars *
10000
6000
6000
600©
<s°°°
600®
8000
450©
4000
360©
322#
200®
60680
Cloves 15X
Copperas pr.cwt. 155 ijs6d
Cordage 65,1 6js6d
Cocoa 6n6d 6756 d
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece Boj 85J
Ravens
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 443
Common, 40/ 41/
Bur middlings,beft 37J
Middlings 341
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. 14J 15/
Flax
pr. Ib,
Fustic pr. ton, 13$s 150s
Feathers pr. lb. 2J 4 d
Flaxfeed pr. bush. $s gd
Glue, pr. cwt. 7/10s 81
Ginger, white race 5256 d
Ditto, common 50J
Ditto, ground pr. lb. Bfad
Ginseng, o S
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. )
. quarter cask, £ 3 os
Ditto, fine glazed 37 s 6d
G»n, Holland, pr. gall, 6s
Do. pr. cafe, 28/ 30/
" Wheat'pr. bush &s^d6d
R / e ,5 J
„ Oals \sSdn6d
< < Indian corn
f; Barley 4 s 6d
Bed Ihellcd 20s
Buckwheat sj §d
Hams pr. lb. yd Hd
Hera?, pr. ton, 56/
Hogthead hoops, pr. M 5/ 61
1 2<jOC>f>
Herrings, pr. bbl. 20s
Hides, raw pr. ib. 9d 10d
Hops 2 s
Indigo, French,
Carolina 4* yj
Irons, fad pr. cwt. s
f Callings 223 Sd 30s
7: I Bar pr. ton, 20/ W
2 < pl s 101
5 I Sheet Go/ 65/
I Nail rods 35/ioj
Jiink, pr. cwt. 27s 35s
Lard, hogs lodud
Lead in pigs 40* 42 s 6d
i" tiars 45J 50/
Lead, white Bo.t 85/
; red 4;/i 6d
Leather, Toil pr.\b. it 2d
Lignum vita: pr. ton 42* 4 5 r
Logwood yI SS 81
Meal, Indian, pr. bbl. 20*
Rye t 5 ,
Mackarel,beft 6o s
Common 30J 52J 6d
Mace pr. lb. 70 s
Mustard 23 4d
Madder, bed \slils<jd
Molasses pr. gall. zs6dnsgd
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 13s
Ma ft spars 6s 7s 6d
Mahogany SJ
Nutmegs pr. lb. 6os6p6d
Nails, iodi2d&2od— SdSjjdgd
' Linseed, pr. gall. 359 d
Train ts tod 2s
Spermaceti 3* yd
j Whale is 101/ 2s
r •{ Olive Q S 6d
j Ditto pr. cafe 28.J 30s
Belt fwect in ) r , r
flafks.pr.box.f s«6<i6o*
L—balkets 12 bottles 28/
Oak timber pr. ton 40*
Porter in calks, pr. gall. 2s
London, pr.doz. t2J 6i 15s
PER QUANTITY
Dollars at if6.
Porter, American pr. doz. 12/
Pitch, pr. bbl. 25/
Pork, Burlington, Bo.rc>o.y
Lower county 70s 85 r
Carolina ysr
Peas, Albany ys 6d 8j
Pepper, pr. Ib. 2s qd
Pimento is 6d
Rice pr. cwt. 24 s
Kofin pr. obi. 25/
Raiiins, best, pr. keg 75/
Ditto pr. jar 22/6^30/
Ditto pr. box 17 s 6d 2256 d
/-Jamaica pr. gall. 5 s 6d 6s
Antigua 41 gd 5/
Windward 4*6*
Barbadoes 43 414^
r Country, N.E.
2ssd zs6d
Saffafras pr. ton 4/jj 60*
Saltpetre, pr. cwt. 6/10/
Sulphur, flour 40/41*
Shot 50/
j ( German pr. cwt. 601 70s
W blistered 82s 6d
pr. ton 40/60/
-n pr. fag. 4/ 10/
Snake root pr. lb. 1{ 6d is Sd
Soap, Common $d 6d
Brown 6d
Castile &d gd
Starch 7
Snuff is6d 2s±d 3s 6d
Spermaceti, refined, 31
Sail Cloth, Englith, )
pr. yard, $
is 3i
ißj 20s
•Boston, No. I,
No. 11. 2J 2<<
Riifiia (heeting, pr. p. 90/
fLump, pr. lb. is
& j Loaf, (ingle refined is6d
"i J Ditto, double do. lsiofcd
y I Havannah, white lid
co ' Ditto, brown, 8d 10d
L Mufcovada,pr.cwt,
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall. Qsgd
(Allum pr. bufti.
,j 2s 6d
< us
(Lisbon ts^dzsdi
Ship build. W.O. frames f Boj
p. ton, J 85#
Do. LO. & red C. do. 6/6/5*
Shingles, Ihort, p. M. 15J zof
ij 1 s6
65s 7 os
—long dressed go.r 100/
Scantling, heart, 90/150/
Sap 42 j iS s
f Pipe pr. 1200 pieces ia/
2 ; W. O. hogshead 7/ 5/
> ) R.O. do. 5/ 5/
< I Leogan 5/i s *
c/ 3 Barrel 4/ 1
L Heading 8/ioz
' Otter, best pr. piece zys6d
Minks is 2s 6d
Fox, grey 2s 6d 5/
red 6s js6d
Martins 3/
~ Fishers zs6d
3 Bears js6d 20s
Racoons gj 4*
Mu(k-rats is 6d
Beaver, pr. lb. 7s6d lisgd
Deer, in hair is6d?s^d
Tar,N.Jerfey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 131
Carolina, 32 gall. 15x17/
Turpentine 20J 22sGd
Spirits, pr.gall. 3J gd
. f James R. new best 35/
;£ inferior z6s 28/
o old 45J 50s
~ Rappahannock
O J Colo. Maryland 40/ 60/
Dark slos 22s 6d
Long-leaf 22 s6d
W Eastern-shore 15J 16s
Carolina, new 24126/
_ —-old 30/
Hvfon pr. lb. ioj ioj 6d
co Hyson llcin, 5/
■{ Souchong, best ys6dss
H I Congo, 3 s 9d 5/ 6d
(.Bohea, 2s 8d
Tallow, refined 7\d 9d
Tin pr. box, 110/ 112s 6d
pr. lb. 41 4s 6d
Vermillion, iu
Varnilh, SJ 2J
' Madeira, pr. pipe 40/80/
Li (bon 40/
Teneiiffe 22/ 10s 24/
w Fayal pr. gall.
52 J Port pr. pipe 39/ 40/
5 Dilto pr.gall. s'iod
Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 30/
Claret <Joj 45s
• Sherry pr.gall. 6sgd g*
L Malaga 4* f,s
Wax, Bees pr, lb. 2s 2s 61i
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. isgJ
■Ihort, pr. lb. is io|^
8 d 9 d
Tun
JS 6d 12/
Wax,
Whal
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days, 7»
Ditto 60 days 72^
Ditto 30 days 74
Amsterdam, 60 days.
3® days 3/ ji
Trance, 60 day»,pr.s liy. 7s 2i
30 days 7/ 3d
233 d
pr. guilder,