PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENXO, No. 69, MARKET.STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 6s, of Vol. ll.] Saturd ay, December ii, 1790.
PHILADELPHIA
SPEECH
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
TO BOTH HOUSES OF CONGRESS.
Fellow Citizens of the Senate, and
House of Representatives,
xN meeting you again I feel much fatisfa&ion in being able
to repeat my congratulations on the favorable profpefts which
continue to dillinguifh our public affairs.—The abundant fruits of
another year have blefled our country with plenty, and with the
means of a flourifhing commerce—The progress of public credit
is witnessed by a confide rable rife of American Stock abroad as
well as at home—And the revenues allotted for this and other na
tional purposes, have been produttive beyond the calculations by
which they were regulated—This latter circumstance ts the more
pleasing, as it is not only a proof of the fertility of our resources,
but as it allures us of a further increase of the national refpeftabi
lity and credit ; and let me add, as it bears an honorable tefti
roony to the patriotism and integrity of the mercantile and marine
part of the citizens—The pun&uality of the former in discharging
their engagements has been exemplary
In conform ing to the powers vested in me by the a£ts of the
lad feflion, a loan of three millions of florins, towards which some
provisional measures had pievioufly taken place, has been com
pleted in Holland, as well the celerity with which it has been
filled, as the nature of the terms (considering the more than ordi
nary demand for borrowing created by the situation of Europe)
give a reasonable hope, that the further execution of those powers
may proceed with advantage and success. The Secretary of the
Treasury, has my direction to communicate such further parti
culars as may be rcquifite for more precise information.
Since your last fcilions, I have received communications, by
which it appears, that the diftrift of Kentucky, at present a part
of Virginia, has concurred in certain proportions contained in a
Jaw of th at State ; in conCequence of which the diftrift is to be
come a diftinft member of the union, in cafe the requisite fan£lion
of Congress be added—For this fanflion application "Is now made
—I shall cause the papers on this Very impoitant tranfaftion to be
laid before you.—The liberality and harmony with which it has
been condutted, will be found to do great honor to. both the par
ties ; and the sentiments of warm attachment to the union and its
present government, expressed by our fellow-citizens of Kentucky,
cannot fail to add an affectionate concern for their particular wel
fare, to the great national impreflions under which you will de
cide on the cafe submitted to you.
It has been heretofore known to Congress, that frequent incur
sions have been made on our frontier settlements by certain ban
ditti of Indians, from the northwest fide of the Ohio: I hefe,
with some of the tribes dwelling on and near the Wabafh, have of
late been particularly active in their depredations ; and being
emboldened by the impunity of theif crimes, and aided by such
parts of the neighboring tribes as could be seduced to join in
their hostilities, or afford them a retreat for their priloners and
plunder, they have, instead ©f listening to the humane invitations
and overtures made on the part of the United States, renewed their
violences with frefti alacrity and greater effect. The lives of a
number of valuable citizens have thus been facrificed, and some
of th«m under circumllances peculiarly (hocking, whilst otheis
have been carried into a deplorable captivity.
These aggravated provocations rendered it essential to the fafety
of the Wettein Settlements, that the aggressors ihould b<* made
sensible, that the government of the union is not less capable ol
punifliing their crimes, than it is disposed to refpett their rights,
and reward their attachments. As this objett could not be effect
ed by deienfive measures, it became necefTary to put in force the
ast, which empowers the President to call out the militia for the
protedion of the Frontiers. And I have accordingly authonfed
an expedition, in which the regular troops in that quarter are
combined with such draughts of militia as were deemed
The event of the measure is yet unknown to me. The Secietai)
©f War is directed to lay before you a statement of the informa
tion on which it isfounded, as well as an estimate of the expcnce
with which it will be attended.
The disturbed lituation of Europe, and particularly the ciitical
posture of the great maritime powers, whilftit ought to make us
more thankful for the general peace and security enjoyed by the
United States, reminds us, at the fame time of the circumspec
tion with which it becomes us to preserve these bleflings. It re
quires also that we should not overlook the tendency ot a war,
and even of preparations for war among the nations molt, cori
ecrned in a&ive commerce with this country, to aDiidg- t ie
means, and thereby at least enhance the price of tranfportmg its
valuable productions to their proper markets. I recommend it
t® your serious reilc£hor»s how far, and in what mode, it ma r b
expedient to guard againil embarrafTments from these contingen.
Ie«, by fuel) encouragements to our own navigation as will ren-
der Qur commerce and agriculture less dependent on foreign bot
toms, which may fail us in the very moment most interesting to
both of thefs great objetts. Our fifheries, and the transportation
of our own produce, offer us abundant means for guarding our-
Iclves against this evil.
Your altcntion seems to be not less due to that particular branch
of our trade which belongs to the Mediterranean. So many cir
cumstances unite in rendering the present state of it dillrefsful to
us, that you will not think any deliberations mifcmployed which
may lead to its relief and prote&ion.
The laws you have already passed for the eftablilhment of a Ju
diciary system, have opened the doors of justice to all defcrip-
ions of persons. You will consider in your wisdom, whether
'mprovements in that system may yet be made ; and particularly
whether an uniform process of execution on (entences issuing from
the Federal Courts, be not desirable through all the States.
The patronage of our commerce, of our merchants and feamcn,
has called tor the appointment of Consuls in foreign countries. It
<ems expedient to regulate by law the cxercife of that junfdic-
ion, and those functions which are permitted them, either by
express convention, or by a friendly indulgence in the places of
ieir residence. The Consular Convention too, with his Most
Christian Majcfty, has stipulated in certaio cases, the aid of the
national authority to his Consuls eftabli(bed here.—Somelegifla-
ive provision is requisite, to carry these flipulations into full effe£b
The establishment of themilitia—of a mint—of standards of
weights and measures—os the poft-office and post-roads, are fub
je£ts, which (I presume) you wi 11 resume of course. and which
are abundantly urged bv their own importance.
Gentlemen of the House of Representatives,
THE fufficiency of the revenues you have established for the
objects to which they are appropriated, leaves no doubt that the
refiduaiy provisions will be commensurate to the other objects fo r
which the public faith Hands now pledged. Allow me more
over to hope that it will be a favorite policy with you not mere-
to secure a payment of the interest of the debt funded, but as
far, and as fact as the growing resources of the country will per
mit, to exonerate it of the principal itfelf. The appropriation
youhave made of the Western Lands, explains your dispositions
on this fubjeft, and I am persuaded the sooner that valuable fund
can be made, to contribute along with other means, to the actual
reduction of the public debt, the more salutary will the measure
be to every Public as well as the more fatisfaftory to our
conftitu^nts.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
House of Representatives,
IN pursuing the various and weighty bufincfs of the present
feflion, I indulge the fulleft pcrfuafion that your confutations will
be equally marked with wisdom, and animated by the love ot
your country. In whatever belongs to my duty, you (hall have
all the co-operation which an undiminifhed zeal for its welfare
can inlpire. It will be happy for vis both, and our best reward,
if by a fuccefsful administration of our refpcftive trusts, we can
make the eftablithed government more and more instrumental in
promoting the good of our fellow citizcns, and more and more
theobjcft of their attachment and confidence.
United Slates, December Bth, 1790.
FRANCE.
national Assembly.
September 9.
TUMULT AT St. ETIENNE, IN FOREZ.
A number of people had afiembled on the 4th
instant, of which M. Birtheas was thcoftenfible
cause.
The commandant sent a detachment of the
National Guard to condudt M. Birtheas to the
Guardhouse. —This detachment was followed by
a very great croud of people of both sexes—it was
feared the guard would be inforticient—it was
accordingly doubled, and being even then not
of fufficient strength, M. Birtheas, by way of
fafety was imprisoned.
He was accused of having monopolised corn.
__To appease the people, his house was exam
ined, in which there was found only a fiViall
quantity of corn. After this, the guards about
the prison were almost dispersed, and the peo
ple were proceeding to break open the gates.
Neither prayers nor entreaties could hinder them
they broke them open—seized M. Birtheas,
and murdered him ! '
Next day (the 9th) the inftirgents proceeded
of their own accord, to the election of new Mu
nicipal Officers, and to make regulations ref
pe<sting the prices of corn. On this a number
669
G. WASHINGTON.
[Whole No. 169.]
of citizens armed thetnfelves, and proceeding
against the insurgents, nrattcanu».\.„«i- t |,
prisoners, who were conducted to L)ons.
The aflembly, remitted theprocefs and punifii
men t of this fhameful bufmefs to the Tribunal of
Lyons, who are charged to pursue all instigators
and agents in this horrid affair with the molt
pointed severity of the laws.
M. de Sillery communicated to the aflembly, in
telligence, that in the plains of Jales, at the foot
of the Cevennes, an army of 20,000 Gardes Nati
onalesare allembled,headedbya troublefomeprieft
named La Bajlide, sword in hand, with a crols
in his hat, who had made them take a fort of
oath to set 011 foot a solemn Crusade for the re
formation of abuses at Nifmes.
Saturday, OCI. i,
The Assembly proceeded to lire order of rlie
day, the difcullion of the affair of the 6th nf Oct
Mr. Chabraud undertook the defence of Mr.
d'Orleans, with great warmth and zeal, read
ing and commenting on several parts of the re
mitter of the police, which were favorable to Mi. *
d'Orleans. He alio read fonie letters, complain
ing that the teftitnony ot several persons of cre
dit was not received.
Mr. d'Ellournal demanded that tliefe papers
lould be sent to the Chatelet.
Which was oppofedbyMr. Mirabeau, who de
clared that he Hood forward as the accuser ofthe
Chatelet, which he would profecuteto his grave.
The propoficion of Mr. d'Ellournal was reject
ed.
Mr. Abbe Maury said, that in an affair of this
fort, the Allembly should follow the ilricftelt rules
of justice—he therefore proposed to hear the ac
cused fii ft, if they wiflied to speak, then the wit
nelies, and afterwards such members of the Af
feinbly as should desire to give their opinion oil
the measures the Aflembly ought to take.
Mr. Goupil wished that such members as were
witnesses should withdraw, and lliat tliofe only
who were dilinteretted lliould take part in the
debate.
Mr. Mirabeau deflred that an exception should
be made in favor of those deputies, who having
been summoned to give their testimony, declared
they had noth?ng to depose.
The Abbe Maury then delivered a speech, in
which he argued that the Aflembly ought not to
pronounce the absolution of Mr. d'Orleans. He
laid he lliould notoppofethe decree that there is
110 ground of accufution againll Mr. Mirabeau—
there did not exist charges againll him fviflicienr-
ly Itrong to support the decilion of the Chatelet,
but that the luuation of Mr. d'Orleans was dif
ferent.
A Prince of the blood accused ofbeing seen on
the morning of the 6th of Otfiober, encouraging,
the allaflins who maflacred the gardes du corps,ana
attempted even the Queen, ought as a defend
ant worthy ofHejiry 4th, to prostrate himfelf in
the fencftuary of jultice ; and to provoke its se
verest scrutiny ;he declared that it was by such
ineansalfo, he could clear up his innocence, and
that his friends,and the friends of his reputation,
ought to advise him to demand the vengeance of
the tribunals.
Mr. Mirabeau then appeared in the tribunal,,
and declaimed with great warmth against the
proceedings of the Chatelet, which he declared
to be a monument that would attest to future ages
the iniquity and anticipation of the judges of this
tribunal. ' He then examined the different accu
sations which were made against him, and an
swered them all in a fatisfacftory manner.
Mr. Barnhave undertook the defence of Meflrs.
d'Orleans andMirabeau,bothof whom he declared
to be irreproachable ; and it was the judgment
of the Chatelet alone which merited the indigna
tion of every good citizen.
I The Aflembly divided 011 the question, and de
clared the two deputies free from all inculpation.
Sunday, 08. 3.
A letter was read from Mr. Silles, a young of
ficer, who diftinguilhed himfelf at Nanci, mo
destly thanking the Aflembly for the eulogium
they had bestowed upon him, and desiring that
this might be conlidered less as the exercise of a
virtue than as the performance of a duty.
A report was made to the Afleinbly of commo
tions in Languedoc, with information that the
people of Carcaflonne Ihewed a difpofuion to re
volt.
The Aflembly decreed,that the Executive pow
er Ihould be called upon to interpol'e, and with
tii&o
»some regular troops to put an end to tliefe dis
turbances—Several decrees were also palled re
fpedlin-g the finances.
Mr. d'Orleans {the late Duke) delivered a
speech in exculpation of himfelf. He obierved,
that as the Allembly had, the day before, decreed
that there was no ground to accuse him, lo it re
mained only for liiin to prove that there was no
ground even to suspect him.
Monday, Oft. 4.
A letter from the marine minister gave inform
ation, chat the fermentation at Bred, which was
thought to have been appeased, subsisted still;
that he had discharged the crew ot the Leopard,
who had individually received from the General
Aflemblv of Sr. a certificate that they
were the Saviours of that colony, and that the
municipality of Brest: had struck medals in their
favor, which were distributed among the crew.
The Aflembly ordered this letter to the Colo
nial Committee, and directed that the President
fbould writeto the municipality ofßreft, in order
to put a flop to the delivery of the medals.
PARIS, Sept. 19.
Extract of a litter from Marfcilles, sfuguft, 30,
" A large Spanilh (hip armed, en flute, loaded
ivith cordage ancj all kinds of naval ltores, from
Cadiz, bound to Carthagena, was taken jaft as
ihe palled through the gut of Gibraltar, the be
ginning of this month, by an Algerine Rover of
56 guns. After a very desperate aiTtion of thir
teen glafl'es, flie was carried into Algiers. They
fought with equal bravery a longtime, and were
molt of the time within pistol fliot of each other,
which caused an horrid (laughter on both fides,
particularly among the pirates, who were repul
sed twice in attempting to board, with the loss
of near 100 men cut to pieces.
" Notwithstanding this dreadful carnage, the
< Barbarians made a third attempt with such irre
fiftable fury, that, in spite of all refinance, they
became conquerors. The people 011 board the
Spanilh ship behaved with the greatest bravery,
and fought with a surprising resolution. It is
laid, that the Captain and part of the crew were
Irifli, and that the former was killed by a lance
in the heat of the action. The Pirates fuffered
prodigiously in officers and men, having had all
the formerkilled,and most of the latter wound
ed ; and, their ship was so much pierced and flut
tered, that she funk as she was towing into Al-
giers
" Three days before, the above pirate was at
tacked by two armed ships of 18 guns each, under
Ruffian colours, which ihe beat off, after a very
severe conflict of an hour and twenty minutes.
In this aiftion she had her sore-topmast carried
away, and her rigging materially damaged.
" She was very audacious, and fought all the
time under the Algerine bloody flag."
LONDON, Sept. 2j. \
The information communicated by the African
Society is equally interesting to the philosopher,
and the merchant. The former will rejoice that
■while Mr. Bruce is publiflring his description of
Abyssinia, and other eastern parts, and M. Gordon,
another Scotch gentleman, who is Dutch Gover
nor at the Cape, is preparing his journey from the
land of the Hottentots through CafFraria, the mu
nificence and discernment of this Englilh Afloci
ation has used, and is still using, the propereft
means for exploring the great liothern jnafs of
Africa, and discovering the secrets of those vast
inland provinces, which have hitherto beenconfi
dered as inaccessible The attention and enter
prise of the merchant will be excited to the dis
covery ofanewand boundless market,an hundred
millions of Africans eagerly coveting his commo
dities, for which they can make him the moil va
luable returns ; but, notable at present to obtain
them, except by the land conveyance of jooomiles
from theMediterranean.fubjedtedto the complica
ted difadvantnges of a high price, inferior quality,
and various exactions from tlie defpotick govern
ments of Barbary. Yet, from the highelt reach,
es of the Gambia, the English trader might ar
rive, by a journey of fouie hundreds of miles from
his ships, to the fame markets, which the Kezzan
ers find it their interelt to frequent, notwithstand
ing the above inconveniencies ; a new profpedt
of commercial inrercourfe, the moll magnificent
that theliiilory of the world has ever at anytime
presented.
QUEEN OF FRANCE.
There are now circulating in the fafliionable
circles of this country, private Memoirs of her
Majerty of France. We have been favored with
the fight of a copy ; ihey are printed at a private
prefs,and evidently drawn up by a mailer's hand,
and one deeply in the secret : allowing party or
prejudice, or perhaps a sense of private injuries,
10 have aggravated matters, there Hill remains a
complication of intrigue, political as well as a
morous enough to have juflified a dozen revolu-
tions
The Duke de Coligny, of whom we now hear
so little,-vi as it feenis, for many years the private
spring which regulated the vast machine of France.
We venture now t« expatiate on particulars, be
taufe 110 English Jury has at present determined
iliat truth is 110 libel. Some intercepted letters
aie alio printed in the above publication betwixt
Zephyr and Flora ; —more tender*©!" jnipaflioned
conipofitions were harcliy ever feel). Zephyr is
ail officer of liigli rank in the Svvedifh lervice,
and who Flora is our readers may guels : much
light is also thrown upon the myfte.ious affaii or
the* necklace, which feeuis daltined to undeigo
dill farther invtlt gati.) 11.
Mirabeau, in one of his lalV speeches, laid,
" For thele iwentj, or five and twenty years pair
my wron«s and in* services, my misfortunes and
my fuccelles, have engraved upon my heart the
molt profound attachment to liberty. P itty-fdui
Lettres de Cachet have been ill'ued againlt DiJ
family,of fevenieen of which I niyfelf have beei:
the objedt."
Lunardi has had another narrow escape ol hi:
life at Palermo. He went up from thence in <
balloon, which carried him out to sea, where h<
was obliged to descend, and was very near bein;
drowned, having scarce any remains of life,whei
some filhermen came and took him up.
ExtraCl of a letter from Stockholm } S:pt. 3
" The peace which was signed at Verelae on
he 14th ulc. not being proclaimed for lome days
ifterwards, the 18th, was near producing one of
he nioft obstinate battles at Swenfka Sound, that
:ver was fought on that memorable spot. The
'rince of Naflau having fixed on that day to at
ack his Majefty'sfleet, advanced in order of bat
le, and continued so to do.lnotwithftanding every
•eprefentation that could be made to him, as well
)y his own officers as by repeated flags of truce
Voni the Swedilh fleet. He returned for answer,
hat he had as yet received no orders from the
impress to lufpend hostilities ; things were in this
ituation ; the two fleets in order of battle, at a ve
•y lictlediftance out of gun-fliot, and the Ruffian
leet advancing, when the courier arrived from
Peterfbarg. Prince Naflau acknowledged the
receipt of it by.aflagof truce, and thus,thofe who,
a few minutes before, were on the eve of a nioft
serious and bloody conflict, became friends in an
instant, and mutually congratulated each other on
the event. The King landed in the Royal Barge,
accompanied by the officers of the fleet, and be
ing arrived at the Camp, the two armies were
drawn up opposite to each other, and fired a feu
dt joy. After this the Ruffian General Igelllorm
came to pay his compliments to his Majefty,and
had the honor of presenting General Bergman,
the Coflack General Denifow, Prince Kergis of
the Chinese Tartars, Volunteer in the army, and
all the fuperi')t- Ruifian officers.—Prince Naflau
was not observed to be among them
was then fang, and the two armies returned pub
lic thanks to God fqr restoring the blelfings of
peace, each according to their refpetftive mode
of worlhip. After which, his Majelly, in a inoft
gracious and maiily speech, thanked his army for
their exertions during the war, their loyalty to
him, and fidelity to their country. He then pro
duced and read a lift of promotions cftc.
The victorious standards of Charles the twelfth
(many of which still exist in the old regiments)
were then furled, neverto beagain displayed till
war shall call them forth. HisMajefty conducted
the Ruilian officers to the Royal Pavilion, where
a splendid entertainment, was prepared . the Em
press of Ruflia's health was drank under a gene
ral discharge of artillery ; the Ruffian officers re
turning the compliment by drinking his Swedilh
Majesty's health, with the laid accompaniment.
During this time the dreary appearance ot tren
ches and outworks, between the two camps, was
agreeably changed into a moll regular garden :
the soldiers having transplanted large trees for
that pnrpofefroin the neighboui ing woods; these
were illuminactd at night, and the names of Ca
therine and Guftavus fhoneconfpicuoufly on evry
branch. The soldiers of both armies promifcu-.
oufly partook of the refrefhments the King's
bounty had ordered for tliem. The various dres
ses of the Coflacks and Tartars on the one fide,
and the Laplanders and Dalecarlians on the other,
giving; the whole the appearance of a mal'quei ade
The illumination was in the end rendered, coin
pleat by the combustion of the artificial forelt, in
one general blaze ; and the evening concluded
wuh the greatelt harmony and felHvity."
E xtrafi of a letter from Paris, Sfpt. 19
" Since my last, the afpecft of things in this
city continues the farrfe ; the fame clouds throw a
gloom over the political horizon, and the animo
lityof party prevails in the fame, if not in a great
er degree.—The factions in the National Allera
bly not olilyaddrefs the molt severe and indecent
things to the oppolite party diredtly, but throw
out the most envenomed farcalms in conversation
among thenifelves. When Count Mirabeau 011
Friday was defending his system of Affignats, I
was in the gallery, over the right, orariftocratic
fide of the Aflembly, and heard one of them fay,
" Very well, indeed, Mirabeau has had a bribe of a
million for faying that and when the galleries
applauded more loudly than usual, " they general
ly get only forty Jous for clapping, said another ; to
day J suppose they are paid three livres." Butthings
never went to i'o great a length in the French Se
nate, as tliey did last evening, when a deputation
of the people of Liege was introduced. Adifpute
arising about a question of form ; and one of die
670
Te Deum
Ariftoerats not fubinitting quietly to the cenfiire
of the Prefident,M. Alexander Lameth told them
in general, that they would at last wear out the
patience of the nation, and that they ouwht to
tremble for the fatal consequences their conduct
would draw upon themselves. " Does it notft em,
answered M. Marinas, that we are all thrcuiuiei
■with the hatter And it Teemed so indeed, for
the people of the gallery luppoling from the vi
olence of the dispute, that it could not end with
out blows, were preparing to come to the aflift
ance of the popular party, and fonie of them had
already got a leg over theballultrade. Even the
King, who for iome time pall has quietly acqui.
efced in all the Ijteps taken by the Allembly, be
gins to/hewfome lyinptomsof dilcontent. Where
he was informed of the last decree concerniixr
the Royal Parks, hefaid, " There would be no oT
cafion for his giving his ajfint, as he was determined
to hunt no more ; and immediately gave orders to
fell his hunting equipage. To-day, upon being
told of the deputation by the Aflembly, that the
nation would regret any privation he might un
dergo, he answered, " That he had not hunted far
this tw:he-months pafl ; that there was no appear
ance that he Jbould footi hunt again, as he f})ould not
foll'rat the sports of the field until his mind Jhould be
more at tuft 1
United States.
NEW-YORK, Dcc. 4.
ExtriiM of a liitir front Crcat-Ogcechec t (Georgia }■
Oftiber aS.
" Since the completion of the treaty with the
Creeks, all has been very quiet, untefs we ex
cept fomeill liatured Hate bickerings and heart
burnings amongst ourselves, chiefly occasioned
by a few influential men, who find thetnfelves
great losers by a general a>ft of common justice
towards the Indians. These, however, we expedt
will subside by degrees ; notwithstanding the
formidable combination in a certain part of the
State. As to the Cteeks, Siminoles, and other
nations adjoining our western frontier, nothing
is clearer to me than that, so far from being in
jurious to lis, they may henceforward be made
ufeful to the real intereftsof this State, provided
the faith of treaties be observed.—They now
(how every disposition to copy our manners, arts,
agriculture, and mode of living ; and if they
will not become sincere converts to, and believers
of our holy religion, we can have the less reason
to complain at the disappointment ; as, from
our general conduct, it is very evident xvt do
not believe it ourselves.—As an
commtrce with the Creeks, £zc. is an objedt of
some consideration, and is likely to become more
and more so, now is the time for fettling our sea
coast, and by that means commanding the whole
western commerce—Nothing will civilize and
humane the wild natives sooner, or in a more ef
fedlual manner, than a commercial intercourse ;
it is by this means, too, that the whole of their
fine country will in process of time, fall into our
hands without violence ; while in the interim
wefliall be able to live in quiet, without fortify
ing our dwelling houses and making ourselves
and negroes prisoners therein, as was the cafe a
year or two ago with the widow Savage, and
others, who actually kept lip military duty in
their houses, and became soldiers and heroines
from neceflity.
FREDERICK-TOWN, Dec. 4.
On Friday, the 26th of laftmomli, was executed
at Winchester, pnrfuant to his sentence, Dodtor
James Medlicott, late an inhabitant of that town,
A guard of twenty-fix men, appointed for the
purpose, conveyed him to the gallows ; where af-'
ter hanging-eleven minutes, he was taken down,
and buried in his own yard.
Late accounts from the Miffifippi positively
mention—That the Spaniards have eretTted a fore
at the Walnut-Hills, and garrisoned irwithacon
iiderable number of troops, and that they are de
termined to oppose the (ettleinent intended to be
made thereby Col. Holder, and a number of Ken
tuckians, under the aufpicesof the Georgians.—
That, in consequence of this, many of the Ken
tuckians are embodying, and intend marching
down.shortly, to dispossess them of that valuable
situation ; and, that this being the cafe, it was the
general opinion, that war with our neighbours
mull inevitably be the consequence.
A Charleston paper mentions an Orphan House
having been lately inltituted in that City, which
already "contains ■ sixty-three Orphan children,
cloatlied, maintained, and educated on its boun
ty
PRICE CURRENT.- PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT
6 pr. Cents M./ 1 * m/ 2* P t -L- or 7 1 pr. ccnt. v
3 pr. Cents 7fS ljl\- or 37J do.
Dcfeied 6 pr. Cents 6/6. 6JB. 33} do,
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 12/iok—-13/. 65 do.
Indents */& 7/7 J. * 37J do.
b.iitc debts ———Sty* dv«CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, Dee. 8.
MR. Grout, Mr. Tucker, Mr. White, Mr. Gerry
and Mr. Moore, took their feais this day. '
A meflage was received from the Senate by Mr.
Otis, their Secretary, informing the House, that
the Senate is now ready to meet them in the Se
nate Chamber, to receive The President of the
United States, and such communications as he
may be pleased to make—and that leats are pro
vided for the Members accordingly.
The Speaker (preceded by the Serjeant at Arms
with his Mace) attended by the Members, pro
ceeded to the Senate-Chamber. About 12 o'clock
The President of the United States arrived, ac
companied by the Secretary of State, the Secre
tary at War, the Attorney-General, Mr. Secretary
Lear, and his Aids—when he was pleased to make
the following Speech.—[See firjl page.~]
The President then retired—and the Members
of the House returned to their Hall, where the
Speaker laid before them a copy of the Speech,
which was read by the Clerk.
On motion of Mr. Williamfon, it was voted, that
the Speech of The President of the United States
to both Houses of Congress, be referred to a com
mittee of the whole Honle—and be made the or
der of the day for to-morrow.
Mr. Williamfon, then moved that two Chaplains
of different denominations, be appointed—one
for each House—to interchange weekly—which
motion was carried in the affirmative—and the
Clerk dire<Sed to inform the Senate.
Mr. Se'ney presented the petition of John Car
lile, an officer of the late continental army—
■which was read, and referred to the Secretary of
the Treasury.
The petitions of Jacob Bell, and John Lewis
were, on motion of Mr. Lawrance, referred to the
Secretary of the Treasury—and the petition of
Francis Ackley, to the Secretary at War.
A committee was appointed, confiding of Mr.
SHerman, Mr. Williamfon, and Mr. Clytner, to bring
in a bill to eftabliJhthePoft-Office and Post-Roads
in the United States.
Mr. Williamfon, after some int rod»(£tory obfer
rations on the importance of diffuflug informa
tion among the people, and the utility of news
papers for that purpose, moved, That the Clerk
of the House be directed to furnifh each of the
Members with three of the public newspapers
printed in this city, at their own election—the
papers to be left ar, their refpeiftive lodgings.
Laid on the table. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, Dec. 9.
Mr. Matthews, and Mr. Jack/on, took their feats
this day.
The Order of the Day being called for, The
House resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole
to take intoconfideration the Speech of the Pre
£dentof the United States to both Houses, when
Mr. Livermore took the Chair-
On motion of Mr. Lawranct, the committee a
<doptedthe following resolution,
Resolved, Thatit is the opinion of this commit
tee, that an Addreis ought to be presented by
the House to the President of the United States,
in answer to his Speech to both Honfes, with af
iurances that this House will, without delay, pro
ceed to take into consideration the various and
important matters, recommended to their atten
tion.
The above resolution being agreed to by the
House, the following Members were appointed to
prepare the Address—Mr. Madifou, Mr. Ames, and
Mr. Tucker..
Mr. motion,refpeclingnewfpapers,
which *was laid on the table yesterday, was read,
and taken into conlideration.
•' Mr. Fitzfimons said, he hoped the resolution
would not be agreed to : Tlje fubjetft, said lie,
lias frequently "been difcufled—'and inuch expence
of time has been incurred. For his own part he
knew of no reasons which existed that should in
duce the House, at this feflion, to deviate fioni
Toriner practice,and the custom which had always
been obfervedby the old Congress—debating the
fubjedl would probably be attended with as much
expence, as taking the papers in the usual way.
Mr. Madifen offered some obje&ions to the
motion ; He was in favor of taking the whole of
the publications, or none—as taking a part would
be giving a preference to particular prefl'es, and
would favor of partiality.
Mr. iViillamJoH supported the motion : lie beg- i
ge gentlemen to consider, that if 110 limitation I
was to be set to the number of newspapers, what
theexpence might amount ,to. He said he did
not know the exaot number printed in the city,
whether ten or fifteen'; but if Congress made it
a rule to take all that was, or might be printed,
they may be encreafed m> a hundred—and after
the encreale ot the house, by the addition to the
1 epi dentation, it will be worth while for a prin
tel U P a P a P er nieerly to supply Congress.
ile laid he was disposed to give encouragement
to the pi els, in printing Books—which would be
really advantageous to K the country, by render
ing importations unnecelfary; but as to newspa
pei s, they are a species of printing, which dies
with the day.—He mentioned the number of pa
pers formerly taken by the House, among which
were foine (laid he) that were never read by
any body—lie was for limiting the number, and
therefore had mentioned three—Hill he was not
tenacious of that number ; but whatever else was
determined in the bufinefs,he thought there ought
to be a limitation.
Mr. Livermore said he fliould vote for the reso
lution-—which being put, was carried in the af
firmative 22 to I J.
A meflage was received from the Senate, in
forming that they have concurred in the resolu
tion of the House for the appointment of Chap
lains—and have on their part appointed the Right
Reverend Bishop White.
On motion of Mr. Smith, tomorrow was aflign
ed by the House, for the election of a Chaplain—
The Rev. Dr. Blair, and the Rev. Mr. Green were
nominated.
A meflage was received from the President of
the United States, by Mr. Secretary Lear, with the
papers mentioned in his Speech, refpeifting the
adniiflion of Kentucky as a Member of the Union.
The meflage and papers were read by the Clerk
of the House.—The papers contain a copy of the
proceedings of a Convention in Kentucky—and
a Memorial from the fame, to the President and
Congress of the United States.
Mr. Benfon gave notice thathefhould move for
a committee to be appointed to bring in a bilr or
bills,for determining the time of chufing elediors
in the several States, of President, and Vice-Pre
fident—alio determining, in cafe of vacancy of
the office of Prelident and Vice-President, by
death, or absence from the feat of government,
who (hall exercise the office of President.
On motion a committee was appointed, confift
iug of Mr. Fitzfnnons, Mr. Goodhue, and Mr. Lee,
to bring in a bill to ameiid tmr-a&fur regiJlering
ships and veflels, and regulating the coasting
trade, and for other purposes.
A letter was received froih the Secretary at
War, addrefl'ed to the Speaker, accompanying
sundry papers refpetfirng the Western Expedi
tion, and the expences attending the fame.
On motion of Mr. IVilliamfon, a committee was
appointed, consisting of Mr. White, Mr. Ssney, and
Mr. Bald-win, to bring in a bill to amend the ast
to promote the jrogrefs of the ufeful arts.
Adjourned.
FRIDAY, Dec. 10.
Mr. Sinnickfon, Mr. Partridge, Mr. Smith, (M.) Mr. Trumbull,
and Mr. Wadfworth, took their feats this dsy.
/*The orderof the day being called for, the house proceeded to
[ballot for a Chaplain. The baliots being colleaed, there appear
ed for Mr. Blair, 25 ; for Mr. Green, 16. The Speaker accord
ingly declared the former chosen.
L Mr. Benfon, agreeable to notice, introduced a motion to the
following purport, That a committee be appointed to bring in a
bill or bills lor determining, agreeable to the Constitution, the
time of chufing electors of Prefideut and Vice-President after th 6
expiration of the 3d March, 1793-
Likewise to determine who or what officer shall exercise the office
of President in cafe of vacancy; also to provide tor the opening an
office at the feat of government, to receive the votes of the elec
tors of President and Vice-Prefident.
Mr. Lee moved that this mctioo should lie on the table for fur
ther confederation, previous to its being commuted. This mo
tion being put, was loft ; and MeflYs. Benfon, Heifter, Hunting
don, Moore and Partridge were appointed the committee.
r The reading of the papers communicatcd by the Secretary at
iwar, relative to the expedition against the Indians, being called
for, the clerk attended that business.
These papers contained particulars of the depredations commit
ted by the Indians, on the frontiers, tor almost a year part;, com
municated in a series of accounts from private persons, public cha
racters, and bodies, in letters, memorials and representations, to
the President of the United States, the Secretary at War, See.
The Clerk, then read an eftimaie of the expences attending the
expedition againll the Wabafh nation,and the banditti of Indians;
1500 militia and about 400 Federal Troops, are employed on this
occasion. The amount of the ex pence is estimated at one hundred
| thousand dollars.
The inftru&ions of the President of the United State? to Gov.
Clair, ana the letters from the Secretary at War to Gen. Har*
mar, were then read.
On motion of Mr. Sherman, a committee was appointed to
bring in a hill, more elfettually to provide ior the national defence,
by eftablilhing a uniform militia throughout the United States.
And Messrs Gilman, Grout, Wadfworth, Floyd, P. Muhlenberg,
Boudinot, Smith, (M.) Bloodworth, Smith, (S. C.) and Jackson,
Vere appointed the committee.
-- A melTage was received from the Senate informing the House
that the President of the United States having leceiveda commu
nication Irom the Prefid-ent and commonalty ot the city ot Paris,
had thought proper to lay the fame before the Senate, who had di
rected their Secretary to bring them to the Houf . The letter
from the President and commonalty of Paris was ?ccompani
led with 26 printed copies of an eulogium on Dr. Franklin.
Mr. Madiion oTthe committee appointed to prepare an address,
671
anfwtT to the ipeech ofthc Frcfident ot theUniled Slates,brough |
in a rep irt which wai read. ° -i
Mr. Williamfon moved,that this Addrefsbe referred to acorn*!
mitteeof the whole house, and made the order of the day lor to- 1
morrow, which motion was adopted. J
Mr. Lawrance moved that a number of copies be printed, for
the use of the house ; this motion was fecondetl by Mr. Jackson ;
Mi". Williamfon objc£led, he laid that inconveniences had resulted
from printing reports of committers in times pall ; in their im
mature state they had found the way into the ucwfpapers, and
bien miftakcn for the decifiotis of the house.
Mr. Jackson observed that the addref-. contained matters of ve
ry great importance, which rendered it necelTary that every mem
ber should have a copy before him ; he could fee no inconvenience
that would arise, even if it Ihould be publillied in the papers ; it
might give life to observations without doors, which jnight uot
be unworthy the attention of the house.
lie saw no danger of any millake's arising from publilhing re
pous of their committees—tha"y Were" easily diftinjjiiilhed from
the a&s of the Legislature. But in the prelent inltance, he fa-w no"
for its being inserted in the news-papers, because it hap
pened to be printed lor the use oi the House ; nor did he second
the motion with such a design.
It being observed by Mr. B >udinot, that it had not been custom
ary to print the report of the committee on similar occasions, the
motiou was withdrawn. Adjourned till to-morrow.
Philadelphia, Dec. 11.
A CORRESPONDENTobferves, That the encreafe of the im
port duty exceeds even the moftfanguine expectation of the friends
to government : Those gloomy fouls who predi&ed that the last
year's importation of goods was more than' the country would
want in seven years, may be told, that their predictions are un
founded ; that the great incrcafe of people in the back country
will naturally increase the importations for many years to come ;
nor is there a doubt that Agriculture alone will amply repay the
cost of all these imports
The amount of duties for 'the three months
ending Sept. 30 last, in the port of Philadelphia, is
The amount of duties ior the fame period, in
he poit of New-York, is
Oar country may justly be felicitated 011 the favorable afpeft of
its public affairs, Agreeable to the speech of the President of the
United States to both Houses of Congrefs,the people more than re
alize all the anticipations of the friends to the government, now
happily established ; and what adds to the pleasure of the con*
templation is, that our civil rulers appear to derive the highest fa
tisfa&ion from the success of public meafurcs, and the peace and
freedom erf their constituents.
ExhaEl of a letterfrom Bojlon, tQ the Editor, dated Nov. 29.
" Our great and good Citizen Mr. Bow do 1 n has paid the debt
of nature. —As in ins life, so in his death, he exhibited a native
firmnefs of mind, which (hews his charafler better than the plau
dits of a world.—Seeing the King, that comes to many arrayed in
fall approaching, he prel'erved his faitk.andphilofophy—
regulated the concerns of his family—bid them each a paternal
adieu—and then wished for nothing but that the stroke of ft he
" conqueror " might be speedy. His superior he has not left behind
him in Mairachufetts,to fay no more. His fame was of that fpecics
whieh not being demanded, or eagerly fought after, was more free
ly, and genuinely celebrated :—it was not sullied by ollcntation,
chicane, or those popular arts, which, in some nations, have made
weak and unworthy men popular—it was deserved, without an
undue solicitude to fecurc it—and it will last, when thonfands,
who built theii's on deception, will be forgotten."
Extratf of * letter from Dr. Ja m e s Anderson, Edi
tor of the BEE* to a Bookseller in New-Tot k, da
ted in Edinburgh, Ocl. I.
" I was highly flattered lately by a letter from
Mr. Washington, President of the United
States, much approving the plan, and proffering
his countenance :o the forwarding of my intend
ed work, the Bee. I have had also letters from
many eminent men on the fame fubjetS, and no
exertion on my part shall be spared tQ render it
deserving the notice of those who ihall be so kind
as to countenance it.
" I hear with pleasure of the prosperity of
your riling (tates, and ihall ever be happy to con
tribute my mite to augment their prosperity.
Narrow-minded persons there are here who too
often think the prosperity of others, dimiuilhes
their own ; lam not one of those. Could the
happy time ever arrive, when mankind in general
fliould become truly wife, we lhould then fee
them emuloufly contending, who should be fore
moft in promoting the welfare of each other ; but
that a;ra we nmit not hope to fee : we may, how
ever, wish for it, and make approximations to
wards it. Among other particulars, it gives me
pleasure to learn that your universities are flour
ifiling, and the number of students annually ad
vancing ; fliould any liberal person on your fide
the Atlantic, take the trouble to give me accur
ate information in these refpecls,l fliall be proud
to communicate it here, which many others are
averse to do."
* [The plan of this periodical work is upon such liberal prin
ciples as mud procure it a more general circulation than any wnik.
of the fame nature Ivtherto attempted ; and the chara&er of the
editor at a man of learning and abilities muftrendcr the publicati
on highly interesting wherever knowledge is fought after and lci
ence revered.") (G. Adv.)
In a former number of the Gazette of the United States we
publiihed a (ketch of the plan of the above work, which we now
have the pleasure to inform the public will be publiihed next
month. Subscriptions for which are received by Mr. Samuij,
CAMPBELL.Bookfeller, New-York. Terms of fubfeription ars
2S. 6d. 31. 3t/. and 4J. Sterl. (accordingto thequality of the paper)-
per volume, nine volumes to be publiibed annually ; fubfenption*
taken in by the vol. only—and no fcparate numbers fold.
IMPROMPTU.
KENTUCKY to the Union given—
Vermont will make the ballanct even ;
Still Pknsy lvan 1 a holds the scales,
And neither South or North prevails.
BOARDING.
Mrs. Johannah Van Brugh Urfin.
has taken a House tor the accommodation of Gentlemen and La
dies, and willmake it agrceableto those that will honor her with
their company. Second-Strsei, oppoflfc Uv* New-M»rk«,
No. 203.
199,003
218,346i
* fOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STAJES.
The Student. —No. 11.
BY SIMON SEARCHER.
POETRY has for some time past been mj fa
vorite study, info much, that 1 have been
obliged to checkiny propenlity to read and mu
tate the Poets, and only allow tnyfelf their com
pany, by way of relaxation after more abiti u e
thinking : Thus may the Student in the hours of
amusement, gain both virtue and k "owledge,,tor
such is the aim of this noble art. Ie
of verse affects me in the fame manner as the ca
dence of a fine voice, or inftrutnent of music ; ei
ther has the power of relieving the mind when
agitated by paflion. or too intense application ;
but Poetry has the advantage of leaving the fpi
i its not only harmonized, but enriched by addi
tional ideas. It may be said that Poetry often
agitates, and appears to distress. It is true.
true Poet will always have such absolute power
over his reader as to give him pleasure and pain
at will ; but the painful sensations arising from
poetic fictions must be of that kind which >av e
heard called pleating : Let any one recollect his
sensations at the recital of a good tragedy ; our
distress often amounts tofiglis and tears ; yet it is
pleating : Whence arises this feenungcontradic
tion ? 1 imagine, in the firlt place, from a con
sciousness that we are diftrefleil by our own con
sent. Secondly, if we do become entirely loft
and carried out of ourfelvis by the Poet s art, it is
but momentary, and when we recoiled: that it is
all an unreal mockery, we are pleased with that art
which could enchant us out ofonrfenfes ; wears !
pleased with the person possessing that art, and
with ourselves for feeling the woes of others-
After repeated awakenings, the continuation or
the illusion is by an effort of our own, aiding the
P The joint power of Poetry and Music, amodern
can have but little idea of from experience
have been present at Concerts and Oratorios,
confefledly of the firft reputation in Europe ; but
the word was in nioft instances but a vehicle to
the found, sense was facrificed. Ihe Greeks and
Hebrews I believe enjoyed their union m a very
high degree : Their natural tendency to unite,
must appear at the slightest view : How great is
the power of each art separately ! What must the
etfeit be when united in perfection 1 Such is the
music of Heaven.
I have been insensibly led intothefe reflections
— intending when I took my pen, only to J" 11 " 0 "
duce the following extract from a Poem entitled
SPRING, put into my hands by a fellow-Student,
in order to obtain my opinion, which it seems is
of more weight with the young man than it. de
serves : He has given his consent to the publica
tion of that which follows, as I tell him that out
fellow-Students who read the Ga?ette or the li
nked States, will perhaps give him some hints that
may be of use to his future compositions.
Describing the breaking up of Winter, and its
effects, he thus proceeds
THE Sun now gaining pow'r, drives the pale snow,
Diffolv'd, in torrents from the mountain tops;
Fad ruftiing to the plain they join, and dream,
Pouring a deluge on the fields around.
The rivers swell and pais their fixed bounds.
Thelow'ring Heav'ns, drefs'd in black'ning horrors,
Spread desolation o'er the weeping world,
Yet seem to mourn her sorrows. Often now
When fable night descends, mantled in clouds
And dorms, and treble darkness not her own,
The wind loud howls, the torrent roars.
Upon the humble roof, forc'd by the gale,
The rain and hail patter. Lull'd by the found.
The Miller, weary, warm, and felf secure,
Unheeded, hears the warfare over head;
Till fwell'd and swelling, with resistless force
The Waters bear away the mounded Dam.— ——
He darts half sleeping prays. The timbers fall
Clattering. Crufli'd, immingled with the ruin,
The fweepy deluge bears the Man away.
In such a night at this, in such a storm,
Forc'd from thy cot, where rural plenty reign'd,
With rural elegance and heavenly love ;
Didst thou Amanda, weeping take thy way.
V/illiam, thy love, thy hulband and thy pride,
Had arm'd in hade, and join'd a daring band,
To fight for those he held more dear than life
His lov'd Amanda and her lovely Babes.
Alas! She knew not that her William fell,
Leading the valiant corps. Angels of mercy
Wafted wide,the voice of busy fame
Forc'd by the Briton's desolating hand,
She from the flames had fnatch'd her little ones.
While trusty Tom % grown grey in honest service
(Who flav'ry knew but by the hated name)
Bore in those arms, where William once was borne,
His pretty Babes. Thus to the warring winds
And elements (he flies for refuge from %
Left-pitying Man. Bare to the rain, expos'd
Her auburn Trellis. The rapid torrent
Roars across their road : See they mount the Br,dge .
The faithlefs Bndge, swept by the flood, gives way .
My Children ! Oh, my Children ! ihe '* c Jin
My William! Oh, my Wi l li am !
And lo ! where Willi am comes with glory crown d,
To meet his laithful fair. Patriot fouls
Around him tune their Harps to everlasting
Bliss, Amanda, and ha little ones, all
Entranc'd in joys fcraphic, join the long,
« Glory to God." they sing, " and praif. to all
Who shed their blood to (hield-mankind from woe. '
Thy foul poor Tom ! fiee'd from its earthy clog
Shows glorious; bright in faithfulnefs and love.
Such is the patriot's lot—joys aye unmixt;
And such the iot of innocence and truth.
Ebenezer Hazard,
At No. 128, in Second Street, between Race and Vine Streets,
BUYS AND SELLS ALL KINDS OF
Public Securities.
N B Persons having Business to tranfaft at the Public Offices,
maybe a [Med, or have their Bus.ness done for them (without the
trouble and expence of a peilonal attendance) on very moderate
Terms. November 2 9 -,
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c.
Of the firft Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market-Suecis.
John Francis,
Late of New-York, refpeflfully informs the public, that he
has opened a
Commodious Boarding
No. 53, Fourth-Street, one door from Racc-Strect,
WHERE Gentlemen may be accommodated witli
GENTEEL BOARDING AND LODGING,
By the Week, Month, or Year, and on the mod moderate terms.
Phila. Nov. 20, 1790.— —[2aw.3m.J
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY.
THE Managers as the STATE LOTTERY, present the Public
with the First of the MalJachuJctts femt-annual Stati Lot
tery, which will commencedrawiiigin the Rcprefentatives' Chamber,
in Ballon, on the Seventeenth of March next, or sooner, if the
Tickets (hall be disposed of._
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE
2j,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125,000 Dollars, to be paid in the following Prizes, lubjeft to a
deduction of twelve and an half percent, for the use of the Com.
monwcalth,
Prizes.
1
2
3
6
to
3°
8o
. 9°
too
120
161
200
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks
25000.
TICKETS may be had of the several Managers, -who will
pay the Prizes on demand—of the TREASURER of the Common
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Store, Franklin's-Head,
Court-Street, and at other places as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.^
DAV.ID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER, j>- Managers.
GEORGE R. MINOT, |
JOHN KNEELANI), * j
Boflon, July 28, 8790.
INTELLIGENCE-OFFICE,
No. 208, in Market, above 6th Street, Southfide y
WILL be negociated all kinds of PAPER
MONEY and
Public Securities,
BUSINESS tranfat'ted in public offices in the
city, and such Paper-Money and Certificates furniflied, as will
make payment at the Land Office equal to Gold and Silver.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, and BILLS,
BONDS, and NOTES of HAND discounted.
HOUSES, Farms, Lands, and Lots, bought
and fold, let or leafed, and Houfcs, Rooms, Boarding and Lodg
ing procured for Strangers, or others.
BOOK-KEEPERS, Clerks, Scliool-Mafters,
Waiters, Nurses, Seamftreffcs, Chamber and other Maids, and
those of other profeflions, who come well recommended, mav
hear of employ ; and Employers be supplied, bv applying to
FRANCIS WHITE.
Dealer in Paper Money, and Public Securities.
College of Phi lade l phi a, Dec. lft, 1790,
LAW LECTURES.
THE Hon. Judge WILSON, Professor of Laws in the Col
lege and Academy of Philadelphia, will deliver his Intro
ductory Le&ure in the public Hal l, on Wednesday the 15th of
this Month, at 6 o'Clock in the Evening. Those Gentlemen who
propose to attend the Lectures are requested to fignify their inten
tions soon, that the necelTavy Preparations may be made for their
accommodation. By Order of the Faculty of th: College^
672
House,
Dollars.
10000
3000
2000
ICO©
ICO©
£0 o
'200
10©
50
40
3°
2©
1©
8
At the
WILLIAM ROGERS, Secretary.
I PLAN OF THE
Gazette of the United States :
(A NATIONAL. PAPER.)
Publilhed at the Seat of the National Goviiumist,
Comprizing
I. TT" ARLY and authentic accounts of the Proceedings of Congrefi \
' j ts Laws, ARs, and Resolutions, communicated io asm
form an history of the tranfaftions of the national goveinmeat.
11. Impartial Sketches of the Debates of Congress.
111 Ejpxys on the great fubjefls of Government-, also upon the
local and national rights of the American citizens, as founded up
on the national or state Conttitutions ; and «poo every other fab
le#, which may appear suitable for newspaper flifcuflion.
IV A furies of Paragraphs, calculated to catch the " living man
ners as they rife," and to point the public attention to objects
that have an important reference to domestic, social and public
happiness. . .
V. The Intevtjls of the United States as connected with their
literary Institutions ; religious and moral objects ; improvement*
in Science, Arts, Education and Humanity; their foreign
treaties, alliances, conne&ions, &c.
VI. Every species of Intelligence which may affefl the commer
cial, agriccltural, manufaauring, or political interests of the Ame
rican nation.
VII. A chain of Demejlic Occurrence.
VIII. A series offoreign articles of Intelligence.
IX. The Jlate oj the Funis ; Courses of Exchange ; Prices Current.
Publiftied every Wednesday and Saturday.
The price to fubferibers, (exclusive of postage) Three Dol
lars per annum.
The firft semi-annual payment to be made at the time of lub
fcribing : The r econd at the end of the year.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Will be received in all the capital tovjns upon the Continent ; also at No,
69, between Second and Third Streets, Philadelphia.
AT this important crisis, the ideas that fill the mind, are preg
nant with events of the greatcft magnitude—to flrengthen and
complete the union of the States—to extend and piotett their
commerce—to explore and arrange the national funis —to restore and
establish the public credit— will require the energies of the patriots
and sages of our country— Hence the propriety of encreajing the me
diums of knowledge and information.
AMERICA, from this period begins her national existence—
" th£ world is all before her"—the wisdom and fol
ly—the misery and prosperity of the empiies, flates> and kingdoms,
which have had their day npon the great theatre of time, and are
now no more, fugged the most important mementos —these, with
the rapid series of events, in which our country has been involved*
have taught the enlightened citizens of the United States, that free
pom and government —liberty and laws, arc inseparable.
This convi&ion led to the adoption of the new conflitution ;
for however various the sentiments, the merits of this
system, all good men are agreed in the neceflity of an efficient fe
deral government.
A paper, therefore, eflablifhed upon national, independent, and
impartial principles—which shall take up thepremifed articles,upon
a competent plan, it is prcfumed, will be highly intereiling,
and meet with and patronage.
The Editor of this publication is determined to leave no avenue
of information unexplored :—He solicits the afliftance 01 persons
of leisure and abilities—which, united with his own afliduity, he
flatiers himfelf will render the Gazette of the United States not
unworthy general encouragement and is, with due relpe£t,
the public's humble servant, THE EDITOR.
•oil art.i
IOOO®
6000
6000
6oc©
,500 c
600©
800©
450®
400©
360©
322©
200©
6068©
jDollar'
THIS publication commenced with the
present government of the United States :—lts
principal objedls are comprised in theaboveplan ;
they have been thus far attended to, according
to the best abilities of the Editor—and that they
are deemed interesting, has been evinced by the
general approbation which the paper has receiv
ed, and the exteniive circulation it has obtained :
It ihall be the aim of the Editor to keep up the
spirit of his plan— every communication condu
cive td that point, will be gratefully received.—
Freedom, Government r Union and Peace conftitut»
thehappinefs of every country —the United States
in a particular manner, have all their present
enjoyments, and future hopes, suspended on the
| preservation of these c[fential pillars of human feli
city: In an ardent wish to promote these great
obje<sls, the " Gazette of the United States" ori
ginated—to these it has been—and shall be fedu
■loufly devoted ; and while it continues an impar
tial vehicle to the public of governmental tran
fcfa(ftions, and interesting information on the mod
p important subjects of life, the Editor cannot fail
of public encouragement.
Agreeable to the original design, the publica
i tion is now commenced in Philadelphia, the feat
'ofgovernment for the United States.—The pa
tronage of the citizens of this metropolis is here
by solicited :—Thofe who may wish to form a
judgment of the work, are refpe<ftfu!ly informed
that the firft volume (from April 1789, to April
1790) may be infped:ed at tliehoufe of the Editor,
No. 69, Market-Street.
The second volume commenced in April last ;
The Editor can supply the numbers complete from
that period—whichcontain the laws of the second
feflion of Congress—and the debates and proceed*
ingsof the house of Representatives, during four
months of the feflion.
12500©
Among the innumerable bleflings derived t®
the people of the United States from the present
general government, there is none productive ot
happier effe<fts than that spirit of universal
citizenship which has in a great measure era
dicated party and local diftincftions,and now forms
a great national feature in the American charac
ter. The Editor, therefore, with confidence,
takes his station in the capital of the United
States, being fully persuaded, that in proportion
to his merits, he will receive the patronage of
the public. JOHN FENNO.
CONDITIONS.
To the PUBLIC.