PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, MARKET.STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 68, of Vol. ll.] Wednesday, De c ember 22, 1790.
ROME.
' | "'HE reports spread abroad in foreign coun
tries, ofpretended disturbances, which have
obliged his Holiness and leveral of the Cardinals
to leavethis city are destitute offoundation. Eve
ry thing is in the molt perfect tranquility, which
lo well suits the speculative life we lead. Poor
Caglioftro is more closely guarded than ever. It
mult be believed that he is detained for some ca
pital crime, for he is confined within five iron
doors, guarded by eight armed men. What a
reverse of fort une ! The Capuchin, his fellow
iufferer, is closely examined, and it is afl'ured
that their sentence will speedily be pronounced.
CONSTANTINOPLE
The particulars relative to the action in the
Black Sea are not yet received. The heights of
CafFra were before them. The Captain Pacha had
■with him a fleet of jy veffels—lo caravellers, 5 fri
gates, 10 kii langi{hars, and ;o cannoniei s. The
aiftion was so far in favor of the Turks, that the
Ruffians loft four frigates, and the Turks have
loft not even one.—The battle lasted seven hours.
That there mull have been some severe work,
is however certain, for the Admiral's (hip of the
Turkilh fquadrou received 80(hots, through her
fides ; nevertheless, preserving all her rigging
unimpaired, she got tfieltered in the fleet.
VIENNA, Sept. J
Accounts from Wallachia mention, that the
Grand Vizier had actually crofled the Danube
■with 30,000 men, but that when the second co
lumn were ordered to follow, they absolutely re
fufed it, and in confequencea regular battle en
sued, in which 1.000 men were killed. The
Grand Vizier has thereby been compelled to
recrofs the river, and the corps under the Prince
of Cobourg and General Suwarow, jwliich march
ed on the y6th of August to receive him, will
consequently ]ofe their errand. The Ruffians
are all now in motion, in four divisions.
The firft, of 10,000 men, under General Su
warow, with the Prince of Saxe Cobourg ; the
second, under Prince Repnin ; the third, under
Prince Gallitzin, is to undertake the siege of If
mael ; and the fourth under prince Poiemkin is
36,000, in the neighborhood of Bender.
LIVERPOOL, October 2
A Hint to Tradesmen. —A man in business who
dwelt in Dublin lately, finding it iinpoffible to
get in his book debts, advertised them to be fold
by AuCiion, pledging himfelf at the fame time
to prove each debt for the putchafer : the alarm
■which this excited w.is such, that in less than a
week not a single debt was to be found uncrofled
in the books of the Advertiser ! Probatum eft.
Last week one Watson, who had been reaping
in a field at Hanham, near Bristol, being much
fatigued, he lay down and fell asleep under a
hedge, when a viper, or some other venomous
creature, bit him under one of his eyes, which
caused his head to swell in a very extraordinary
manner, and of which he died in a few days af
ter, though the best medical advices had been
obtained.
On Tuefdaylaft, some workmen employed in
removing a large hedge bank, upon the estate of
John J. Atherton, Esq. at Walton-Hall, near
this town, they discovered an earthern mug,
containing upwards of a tlioufaud pieces of silver,
and one piece of gold, wrapped up in a leather
bag. It is supposed they were concealed there
during the Parliament Wars, as none of them
are of a later date than King Charles the First,
there are many of Queen Elizabeth, and a few
of Philip and Mary.
LONDON, September 30.
Tuesday night, at ten o'clock, the Remains of
his late Royal Highness. Henry Frederick, Duke
of Cumberland, &c. were privately interred in
the chapel of King Henry VII. at Westminster.
The lervice was read by the Dean of Westmin
ster : after which Garter King at Anns proclaim
ed his Royal Highnefs's Stile, which concluded
the ceremony. During the procession, which
began at nine, from the Prince's Chamber, min
ute guns were fired ; and St. Paul's, and other
churches, tolled minute bells. The procession,
with the different preparations previously made,
are estimated at the expence of joool.
A g-entleman, desirous of improving the breed
of sheep, lately purchased a Ram from a gen
tleman, in Leicefterlhire, for which lie gave
300 guineas. -
On Saturday night there was a general f'weep
below Bridge, and scarce a ship in the river but
was honored by a visit from a Lieutenant in the
impress service.
The King of Hungary ha» resigned the Dutcliy
of Tttfcajiy to his son, in rivtue of a treaty signed
by him for that purpose, in cafe he Ihould luc
ceed to the Throne of Hungary.
The Afleinbly of the National Parisian Guards
on the 13th decreed, That they would go into
mourning eight days for all the citizen soldiers
who died for their country in the affair of Nancy.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Sketch of the Debatu on the MILITIA BILL,
THURSDAY, Dec. 16.
MR. PARKER observed, the clause which
enacftsthat every man in the United States
shall " provide himfelf" with military accoutre
ments, would be found impracticable, as it mult
be well known that there are many persons who
are so poor that it is impofTible they -should coin
ply with the law : He conceived therefore, that
provision should be made for arming such persons
at the espence of the United States. He then
gave notice that in the course of the discussion
of the bill, he [hould move an amendment to this
purpose
Mr. Oilman observed, that obliging persons to
turn out in the militia till th«y were fifty years
of age, agreeable to the bill, would be found
unneceilary and inconvenient —and is, laid he,
contrary to the pracftice of the several States—
few, if any, requiring militia duties to be per
formed after the age of forty-five. He moved
therefore that fifty beftruck out, and forty-five
inserted.
Mr. Vining objected to the motion : He ob
served that a great proportion of our citizens,
especially thole at the eastward and northward,
were as capable of military services at fifty as at
any period : Many in the ranks of the late Con
tinental army, were he believed fifty and upwards,
who were as good foldisrsas any in the service—
He thought the alteration unneceflary.
Mr. Gilman replied, that he conceived the ge
neral practice of the States, which was found 011
experience to be the bed, wgs a fufficient answer
to the gentleman lad speaking, and would sanc
tion the adoption of the amendment he proposed.
Mr. Lawrance said that by the laws of the State
of New-York, persons above 45 years of age are
not enrolled to do duty in the militia—and he
thought that 50 was. a period too late in life to
be fubje<ft to military bardfhips, if it could be a
voided.
Mr. Williamfon was in favor of the motion—
Tho he had seen men in the field who were ad
vanced in life, it had not been without pain—He
thought from 16 to 18 too early a period—Many
at that tender age fell facrifices to sickness and
fatigue.
Mr. Gilman's motion being put was carried in
the affirmative.
Mr. Ficzfnnons luggefted to the consideration
of the committee, whether it would be the moll
eligible mode to fubjecft all the citizens from 18
to 45 years of age, without exception, to turn out
as soldiers. A much smaller number would in
his opinion answer all the purposes of a militia.
He thought the active militia might be comprised
within a much smaller number, to be proportion
ed to thecitizens of each State. The militialaw
of Pennsylvania had been of this general com
plexion, and had never compensated in its ope
ration for the uneasiness it had excited, and the
tax and grievance it had been to the people.
Mr. Boudinot said, that the idea now fuggelted
was debated in the committee—and the)' could
not agree upon any other mode than that propo
sed in the bill. He very much disapproved the
idea of making a soldier of every man between
i 3 and 4J years of age—there is a manifell im
propriety in the measure—and he wished some
gentleman would propose an alteration.
-677-
o
[Whole No. i 72.]
Mr. Lnwrance said that the idea of the gentle
man f.oin Pennsylvania llruck at the principle of
the bill—but as the hint may be not unworthy
of consideration, he proposed thathefhould form
a motion, and reduce it to writing.
Mr. Fnzfimons apologised for engrossing the
time of the committee, cfpecially as he had not
prepared an amendment to that part of the bill
to which he objected, not having contemplated
the fobje<ft fufficiently—but on ptrnfing the bill
it had been forcibly imprefled on his mind, that
fubje<fling the whole body of the people to be
drawn out four or five times a year, was a great
and annecellary tax on the community—that it
could not conduce, either to the acquisition of
military knowledge, or the advancement of mo
rals. As far as the whole body of the people are
neceflary to the general defence, they ought to
be armed ; but the law ought not to require
more than is necefl'ary—for that would be a jult
caufeof complaint.
Mr. Wadfworth said, that it appeared to him
the gentleman's objection went only to that part
of the bill which points out the number of days
to be devoted to training; the militia—as he had
conceded that all from 18 to 45: ought to be arm
ed.
Mr. Jackson said that he was of opinion that
the peopleof America would never consent to be
deprived of the privilege ofcarrying arms—Tho
it may prove burthenfonie to some individuals to
be obliged to arm themselves, yet it wonld not
be so considered when the advantages were jull-
Ij eflimated. Original institutions of this na
ture are highly important : The Swiss cantons
owed their emancipation to their militia eftab
lilhment—The Englilh cities rendered themselves
formidable to the Barons, by putting arms into
the hands of their militia—and when the militia
united with the Barons, they extorted Magna
Charta from King John —In France we recently
fee the fame salutary etFetfisfrom arming the mi
litia—ln England, the tnilitia has of late been
neglecfted—the consequence is a {landing army—
In Ireland we have seen the good efFecfts of arm
ing the militia, in the noble efforts they have
made to emancipate their country. If we neg
lect the militia, a (landing army must be introdu
ced ; but if the idea suggested by the gentleman
from Pennsylvania is adopted, certain clafles inuft
be drawn out, and kept for months together—
which would prove as great a burthen as a (land
ing army : None of the States he observed, have
adopted such a plan—lll Georgia the militia ser
vice has been as drift, as is contemplated -by the
bill—but they have never complained : In are
public every man ought to be a soldier, and pre
pared to resist tyranny and usurpation, as well as
invasion—and to prevent thegreateft of all evils
a (landing army.—Mankind have been divided
into three clafles, Shepherds, Husbandmen, and
Artificers—of which the Jaft make the word mi
litia ; but as the arts andfciences are the (ources
of great wealth to the community, which may
excite the jealousy and avarice of neighbors, this
class ought to be peculiarly qualified to defend
themselves and repel invasions—and as this coun
try is rising fad in manufa<stures, the arts and
sciences—and from her fertile foil may expert
great affluence, (he ought to be able to protert
that and her liberties from within herfelf.
Mr. Parker here introduced his motion, to a
mend the bill by a proviso, that persons who shall
make it appear that they are not able to equip
themselves, lhall be furniflied at the expence of
the United States.
Mr. Wadfwerth objected to this amendment:
He said it would empower the officers to create
an enormous charge against the United
He said he had read almolt all the militia laws ot
the several States, and had found no such provi
sion in one of them—there is not a considerable
number of such persons in any of the States—and
rather than have thisprovifo inferred, he would
prefer a clause to excuse them altogether.
Mr. Parker said, that in Virginia there is a law,
which provides that poor persons, not able to
arm themselves, should be equipped at the ex
pence of the State. In every State there are
doubtless many such persons, who ought to be
provided for by the general government —and
if they are not, the law is rendered impractica
ble—as you require more than is poflible for them
to perform—As to excusing such poor perfous
from military duty, they would be found in cases
of emergency, very ufeful to defend those, who
do not chufe torilk their own persons.Mr. Huntington said if the gentleman would
vary his motion, so that the expence fhotild be
incurred by the Staie, he did 1101 know but he
ffiould agree to it. There is one State (said he)
in which every person is obliged to provide him
ieU with arms and accoutrements—and no diffi
culty has resulted from the law—Penalties on
default are exacfted and collected—but this pro
pofit ion will produce great inequalities—it will
excile jealousies and difcoi d between the govern
ments— but if left to the States the officers will
be moreexacftto prevent impolitions on the par
ticular State from which they receive their ap-
pointments
Mr. Parker agreed to alter his motion agreea
ble to Mr. Huntington's idea.
Mr. Boudinot said that there did not appear to
be any neceflity for the amendment, as the bill
makes provision for excepting persons who are
unable to purchal'e arms, in cafe the state legi
slatures chufe t6 make such exceptions.
Mr. Giles said he was opposed to the motion
on principle ; but if that was not the cafe lie
fliould object to it in its present form as it was
not full enough : He did not suppose that it was
intended that the United States should make a
present of the arms thus furniflied—but the mo
tion does not provide for their return, when not
inufe. His principal objection to the motion
however arose from its being an improper inter
ference with the authority of the Itate govern
ments : They may, or may not comply with the
law—lf they fhouldnot, it would prove nugatory
.—and render the authority of the United States,
contemptible. For these reasons, and others
which had been advanced, he thought the amend
ment improper.
Mr. Bloodworth observed that as the militia
was to be organized and disciplined under the
authority of the United States, and to be employ
ed for the general defence, whenever andwhere
ever Congress should diretft, it appeared but rea
sonable that those who were benefited by them,
should be at the expence of arming them.
Mr. Sherman said it appeared to hitn, that by
the Constitution, the United States were to be put
to no expence about the militia, except when
called into actual service. The clause is not so
explicit as might have been wished ; but it will
be difficult to fix the conftrudtion mentioned by
the gentleman from North Carolina. What re
lates to arming and disciplining means nothing
more than a general regulation in refpetfi to the
arms and accoutrements — There are so few free
men i:i the United States who are not able to
provide themselves arms andaccoutrements, that
anyprovifion on the part of the United States is
unneceflary and improper : He had no doubt
that the people if left to themselves would pro
vide such arms as are neceflary, without incon
venience or complaint ; but if they are furnilhed
bythe United States, the public Arsenals would
soon be exhausted—and experience shews, that
public property of this kind, from the careless
manner in which many persons use it, is soon
loft—The expence and inconvenience would, in
liis opinion, far overbalance any good that would
be derived from such a provilion.
Mr. Vining observed, that the greatest objec
tion against the motion is, that it stops short in
the regulation of the business : No provision, it
is said, is made for the return of the arms to the
public—and it gives a discretionary power to the
officers to dispose of the property of tlie United
States ; but he conceived these difficulties were
not beyond the reach of remedies ; the wisdom
of the house, he doubted not, would devifefnch
as were adequate to the objecft. Healkedby what
means minors were to provide tliemfelves with
the requiflte articles ? Many of them are appren
tices : If you put arms into their hands they will
make goodfoldiers ; but how are they to procure
them .' It is said, if they are supplied by the
United States the property will be loft ; if this
is provided against, every objection |may be ob
viated. He then offered an addition to the mo
tion, providing for the return of the arms to the
commanding officer.
The Chairman then stated the motion with the
amendment.
Mr. 'Fucker observed, that the motion in its
jv.efent form, differed from- the original propo
sed by the gentleman from Virginia, fie con
ceived the gentleman had no right to alter it, nor
could it be done without a vote of the committee.
He prefcred the motion in its original ftate—for
the United States may without doubt, furniih the
arms—but he very much qneftioned their right
io call on the individual States to do it.
Mr. Williamfon was in favour of the quefti«n's
being taken with the amendment admitted by
Mr. Parker. He wilhed to know whether Con
gress meant to tax the individual Hates in this
unusual manner. Perhaps as they had aflumed
the Hate debts upon this principle, or rather with
out any principle, they might think they had a
right to call upon them to furnifh quotas in pro
portion, this would be getting Something for
Ibmcthing—and not like the other measure, los
ing Something for noihing.
Mr. Vining said he could not understand what
was meant by faying that the amendment was
dictating to the Kates: What is the whole bill
but dictating—a law that afFcrts every individual,
touches the whole community. With refpecft to
the constitutionality of the measure, there can
be no doubt—every grant of power to Congrels
neceUarily implies a conveyance of every inci
dental power requisite to carry the grant into
effetft. _
Mr. Wadfworth apologized for detaining the
attention of the committee a moment, while he
asked the gentlemen who favored the motion,
what was the extent' of their wi/hes ?—The mo
tion at firft appeared to be in favor of poor men,
who are unable to purchase a firelock ; but now
it seems, minors and apprentices are to be pro
vided for—is there a man in this honfe who would
wiflt to fee so large a proportion, of the commu
nity, perhaps one-third, armed by the United
States, and liable to be disarmed by them ! No
thing would tend more to excite suspicion, and
rouse a jealousy dangerous to the vtnion. With
refpedl to apprentices, every man knew thatthey
were liable to this tax, and they were taken un
der the idea of being provided for by their mas
ters—as to minors, their parents or guardians
would prefer furnifhing thein with arms them
selves, to depending on the United States when
they knew they were liable to having them re
claimed.
The question on Mr. Parker's motion was loft.
On motion of Mr. Heifter, a proviso was added
to the fecftion in the following words—" That
every citizen so enrolled, and providing liimfelf
with the arms and accoutrements required asa
forefaid, {hall hold the fame exempt from all ex
ecutions, or suits for debt, or for the payment of
taxes."
Mr. Fitzfimons moved to strike "out the words
" provide hiinfelf," and insert " shall be pro
vided "
Tliis motion was objected to by Meflrs Boudi
not, Huntington, Jackson, Partridge, Viningand
Madison. It was said that it would be de
ftrucftive of the bill, as it would leave it optional
with the states, or individuals, whether the mi
luia Ihould be armed or not.
This motion was loft by a great majority.—The
second feclion comprizes the characters that are
to be exempted from enrollment or militia duty.
Mr. Madison moved to strike out that part
which related to members of Congress, their of
ficers and servants, attending either house—
and to insert " members of the Senate and house
of Reprelentatives whilst travelling to, attend
ing at, or returning from the feflions of Con
gress. He iaw no reason for a total exempti
on from militia service—exceptions in favor of
the framers of laws ought notto be extended be
yond what is evidently neceflary.—The members
of Congress during the recess are at liberty to
pursue their ordinary avocations, and may parti
cipate in the duties and exercises of their fellow
citizens. —They ought to bear a part in the bur
dens they lay on others, which may check an
abufeof the powers with which they arevefted.
Mr. Jackson observed that this alteration might
interfere with the public intereil—in cases of
alarm or invasion, the members might be cal
led to a great distance in the militia at the mo
ment when their presence was required to attend
the session of the legislature. It would be well
therefore to consider whether their Cervices in the
militia would be of equal importance to the pub
lic /ntereft, as their services in Congress.
Mr. Boudinot objected to the amendment—not
thatlie would exempt Members of Congress from
burdens imposed 011 their fellow-citizens—but the
motion he conceived was inconsistent with this
very idea. The bill provides that exempts ihall
pay a certain equivalent ; it would be unjust to
impose this equivalent, and compel the Members
to turn out in the militia. He con
cluded by faying that he conceived the indepen
dence of the leigiflature was connected with this
exemption.
Mr. Wadfworth said that he thought there was
no neceflity to exempt Members of Congress : It
the Conititution did not grant them such a pri
vilege, he doubted whether rhey could afTunie it
by an a<ft of tlieir own : He was therefore for leav
ing this matter to the discretion ofthe (laic lefi
flaiures—llo inconvenience would result if this was
done.
Mr. Hartley was in favor of the exemptions'
being fpecified by ast of Congress ; and he con
ceived they had the plainest directions to follow,
in the univerl'al practice of all the (late legislatures
■ —and this practice was founded in the reason of
things, the incompatibility of the duties ; they
are diltindt in their natures, and cannot be exer
cifed together.
Mr. Maddifon fupportedliis motion, he con
sidered it as important that the governors and
the governed should feel their mutual relation to
each other ; on this principle he thought that 110
exemption ihould be allowed, except in cases
where an attendcnce on militia duty, was incom
patible with the performance of other duties ;
tor these reasons he wished that the whole clause
fhoukl be struck oat—in cases of difficulty a court
678
martial would be competent to doing justice t«
the parties.
Mr. Giles followed Mr. Madison in a similar
train of reafoningin refped to rulers fympathiz»
ing with the ruled in all public burthens ; he
adverted to the diflerent plans of organizing the
militia which had been contemplated by the
committee, and the reasons which,induced them
to adopt that in the bill ; with refped: to the
plan of fele<fting particular classes to form a mi
litia, it could not in liis opinion be done, but by
inliftments, which was a mode that the freemen
of America revolted from. He laid that no insu
perable difficulties would result from rendering
all liable to be called upon. Should the clause be
struck MUt, the equivalent mentioned in another
part of the bill will be unnecellary, and the arti
cle may be expunged. He concluded by faying,
that if it was thought proper that the Members
ofCongrefs fliouldbe exempted, it would be best
that the exemptions fliould be made by the Itate
legislatures.
Mr. Sherman faidit was the practice of the se
veral States to exempt their own legislatures, and
the other descriptions of persons mentioned in thp
clause : He conceived a feat in the federal legi
slature, would equally entitle to an exemption :
He was opposed to the amendment, tho he would
agree to ltrike out the whole, and leave the busi
ness to the state legislatures.
Mr. Jackson obierved that leaving the exemp
tions from militia duty, to the discretion of the
Hate legillatures might be productive ofgreat in
equalities; besides it would not comport with the
idea of the bill in the grand object of uniformi
ty : Some states might make great exceptions,
others none at all—this would make the burthen
very unequal on the whole, which would be pal
pably unjust.—The example of the itate legifla
turesisfuriicient said he to (hew that some exemp
tions are agreeable to the ideas of the people—&
the independence of the legislature being eflenti
ally concerned leave 110 room to doubt the pro
priety of the nieafure—he informed the commit
tee that when they came to the clause fpecifyin*
the sum proposed as an equivalent for personal
service, he should move for an alteration.
Mr. Hartley observed that the conftituiion de
clares that the persons of members lliall be privi
leged from arrest during their attendance on
Congress—in going to and returning from the
feflion ; with a Ipecial reference to the independ
ence of the legiflature —he conceived that iE
would counteract the spirit of the cojiltitution to
render the members liable to be called on to dis
charge duties incompatible in,' their nature —on
this principle alio it would be in the power ef a
designing president, ftiouldfucha character ever
be eletfted, to prevent the members aflenibling
by calling out individuals to attend military
duties at the moment when their attendance
would be neceflary in Congress.—The ilates in
dividually, as well as the parliament of Great-
Britain have set us a good example in this refpedt.
Mr. Boudinot, agreed in sentiment with Mr.
Hartley, that the independence of the members
was an important objedt.—The ideas of the gen
tlemen from Virginia [Mr. Madison and Mr.
Giles] that legislators ought to participate in the
burthens imposed on others, ought never to be
loft fight of—but in the present inltance, the
doctrine would be carried into pracftice—for at the
end of every two years, the Members would re
vert to the mass of citizens, and feel in common
with others the influence of the laws.—The busi
ness of legislation is more arduous and momen
tous than any other—and ought not to be impe
ded, or rendered liable to be fruftrated by any
other. This he thought would be the cafe by
adopting the amendment.
Mr. Madison supposed nothing would be risked
by tilt amendment, as the Constitution had fuffi
ciently secured the independence of the members
—He had not anticipated so much debate on the
motion—He was fatisfied in his own mind of its
propriety—The poflible cases which had been sta
ted, did not in his opinion juftify the violation
of the great principle he had mentioned ; but to
fimplify thequeftion he would withdraw his mo
tion, so far as only to propose to strike out from
the exemptions, " the members ofCongrefs."
Mr. Tucker said that it appeared to him that
foine general ideas on the fubje(ft of exemptions
should be incorporated in the bill. If the com
mittee descend to particulars they will find it ex
tremely difficult to make such diftincftions as are
proper. He was opposed to leaving the exemp
tions to be made by the state governments —It
might create difficulties, as some States inighi
exempt their members, and others might not—
These partial exemptions would be attended with
great inconveniences ; the Members may be ne
ceflarily engaged in making their arrangements
to attend their duty in Congress, previous to the
time of setting out for the feat of government,
and be interrupted by being called to the field to
attend militia duty. The number of persons it
will be found eligible to exempt, will not be so
great,as to render the defence of the United States,
precarious for want of their personal services iu
j ihe militia, He concluded by observing that theprinciple of uniformity, and rhe competency of
the federal liegiflatuie to making adequate provi
sion in tlie cafe, point out the impropriety of
leaving the buiinefs to the state legiilatures.
Mr. Smith pursued the idea of Mr Tucker, and
observed, that to be confident, the motion ought
ro g° farther, and extend to exempting Ministers
of" the-Gofpel, only while engaged in preaching
—The StJVool-Mailer, while teaching—The Mil
,]cr while attending his Mill,&c. In liiort it ought
to be so particular as to amount to 110 exemption
at all.
lvlr. White spoke in favor of /he motion : The
Conilitution, said he, has fufficieut'y defined the
privileges of the Members. With respect to the
State officers, he was in favor of leaving them to
be exempted by the Hate legifiatures—nor was he
apprehenfivc they >yould abul'c the power by ex
empting half their citizens, as this would only en
.creafethe burthen on the other half.
Mr. Jiickfon said he imiltbe Hill oppofedto the
motion trom this interesting confidei ation, if no
other existed— I hat it might in its operation de
prive 50000 citizens of their vote in the national
'legislature.
ivlr. Vining added a few observations in favor
of the motion—and then the queition being ta
ken, ic was negatived 24 to 18.
FRIDAY, Dec. 17.
The fubjeft of exemptions was this day fui ther difcufled—the
propriety ot vesting the power in the slate legifl uures, so far as it
refpefts the legrflative, executive and judicial officers ot the parii
•cular lfcate*, was alternately advocated and opposed :—lt was fi
nally determined that the several exemptions ftiould be particu
larized in the bill.
Mr. Seney, moved to add to the exempts, " persons authorized
and received to teach or preach the gospel by the focteties ot which
they are re fpeftively members."—This was agreed to.
Mr. Jackson proposed to add public printers and pilots. The
tjueftion 011 the former was negatived : —On the latter agreed to.
Mr. Boudinot proposed to add all such as now do,or may here
aftrr bear a commillion in the militia.—Agreed.
This finifbed the difcuflion of the second feftion,
Mr. Jackson touched on the fubjeft of penalties, for neglecting
mil-tia duty, and the equivalent to be paid by the exempts ; bat
as this will probably occasion confideraole debate when the 16th
ieftion comes under cunfideration, we reserve ourselves to that oc
casion.
The third feftion being read, Mr. Fitzfimons moved an amend
ment, bv which the power of arrangeing-the militia in divfious,
brigades, &c. is to bevefted in the President ot the United State&j
mftcad of the refpeftive governors ot the Hates.
This motion occaftoncd foine debate ; it was finally carried in
the affirmative.
The cldufe giving rank to aids-de-camp was struck out —and
" to be uk.cn from the line" added.
MONDAY, Dec. 20.
fin| |liin linji
A. bin to continue in force for the term of five years, an act. en
titled an ast, declaring the afTent of Congress to certain acts of the
states of Rhode-Island, Maryland >nd Georgia, was brought in
cngroffed, read a third time, and palfed.
A bill supplementary to an ast further provision for the
debts of the United States, was read a second, and ordered to be
read a third time.to-morrow.
Mr. Ben lon, froihthe committee appointed for that purpose,
ieported the following bills, viz.
A bill declaring the officer who, in cafe of the death, removal,
•r disability of the Pref»dentor Vice-Prefidem, shall exercise the
officeof President.
A bill for determining the refpe&ive times when the electors
for a President and Vice-President lhall be chosen, and the time
when they (hall give their votes.
A bill directing the mode in which the lifts of the votes for Pre
sident and Vice-President shall be transmitted to the fat of the
government of the United States ; ail which were read afirfttime.
Mr. Partridge ptefenied the petition of Barnabas Lucas, read,
and referred to the Secretary of War.
Mr. Huntington prefenttd the petition of William Robinson,
refpe&ing a loftcertificate ; read and referred to the committee
appointed to bring in a bill dire&ing the mode ih which the evi
dences of the public debt (hall be renewed.
Mr. Gerry presented the petition of John Millet RufTell, pray
ing the remillion of the new duty on a quantity of hcrup by hun
imported ; read, and referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Fitzfimons presented a petition from a number of the mer
•ii ants and traders of Philadelphia, praying for the ere£tion of
additional piers at Chester, in the river Delaware ; read, and re
ferred to the Secretary of the Treasury,
Mr. Gory lair] the following motion on the tabic, That the Se
cretary of State be dirr&ed to procure and keep in his office, all
Charters, Patents, and Documents, which refpeel the juiifdi&ional
and territorial rights of the refpc£fcive States.
Mr. Smith laid the following motion on the table, That provi
flon be made for ere&ing a Beacon at the entrance of the port of
Georgetown, South-Carolina ; read, and referred to the Secretary
of the Trcalury.
In committee of the whole on the Militia Bill.
Progress was made in the difcuflion as far as the Bth fe&ion,
TUESDAY, Dec. 21
The bill supplementary to an aift making pro
•vifion for the debts of the United States, was read
the third time aud pafled.
The three bills reported by Mr. Benfonyefter
:day, were read the lecond time, and made the
order of the day for Monday next. 100 copies
of eafh of these bills were ordered to be printed
for the nfe of the House.
Mr. Fiizfiinons prcfented a memorial from the
Trultees of Wilmington College, which was read,
and referred to the Secretary of the TYeafury.—
Also a Memorial and reinonlb ance frojn a com
mittee of a number of the creditors of the United
States in Philadelphia.
Mr. Sen eyprefented a petition from R. Ford,
a marineiv-Wouncled in the service of the United
States, referred to the Secretary of war.
Mr. Seneyof the committee appointed on the
petition offimdry inhabitants of Baltimore, pray
ing for the eitabliihmenr of an health office,
wrought Lii a report, which was in fV.vor cf the
petition—an;l recommendary of a lunilar institu
tion in every port where they are wanted.
j his 1 epott being accepted by the house, a com-!
mittce of five was appointed to prepare and bring
in a bill accordingly.
Mr. notice that hefhould to
morrow move for a committee to bring in a. bill tol
prevent invalid pensioners from transferring the
light to their pensions, before they become due.
A report from the commilfioners appointed the
lait feiiion to superintend the purchase of the
public debt, was communicated to the house by
the Speaker, by which it appears, that the Trea
fuier ot tlie United States, pursuant to orders,
received from the commilliouers, has purcliafedi
the funi ol two hundred seventy-eight thousand
fix hundred and eighty-fev&n dollars; for which,
the sum ot one hundred and fifty thousand two
hundred and tliirty-niue dollars, in specie, lias
been paid
In committee of the whole on the Militia Bil
The committee, finifhed the difcuflioii this day
—and thp Chairman reported the fame to the
J-loufe with fun dry amend irtAICS. 1
It was ordered that ic fliould lfis on the table/
Adjourned. 7,
BALTIMORE, Dec. 14
The legifLture of this (late, now in feflion at Annapolis, have
passed an a£l to repeal certain parts of an ast, entitluJ, " an a£t to
prevent dilabled and superannuated slaves being set free, or the
lnanumilTion ef (laves, by any last will or testament, and of a sup
plementary a£l thereto, and for certain other purposes."
It may be necessary, Qn this occasion, to mention that the a&
prohibits, (under the penalty of of three hundred pouuds) the for
cible and fraudulent transportation or carrying out of this state,
any free Negro or Mulat to—or the felling, or causing to be sola,
or oifpofed of, out of this state, as a flavc for life, any
Negro or Mulatto, entitled to freedom at a certain age.
Philadelphia, Dec. 22.
The wisdom and policy of the law pafled lad
session of Congress, appointing Commiflioners to
superintend the ncgociation of a Loan, and to in
vert the unappropriated monies in the Treasury
in the public debt, while fold in the public mar
ket under par, are now mod apparently made
manifefl, in that rapid appreciation, which has
done more for the public creditors in a few months
than they anticipated for many years.
Congress is now deeply immersed in public buGnefs—the re
ports ot the Secretary of the Treasury, $nd those which areex
pe&ed from the other heads of departments, will probably open
a very extensive field ot difcuflion—but that patriotism which has
picponderated in the councils ps the union, v. ill we doubt not
unite the legislature in giving all poflible dupatch to the impor
tant objects of their deliberation.
The fluduation of our counsels previous to the adoption of the
New Constitution, unhinged the public mind, weakened all con
fidence in the government, and almost annihilated the credit of
the Uuited States. A solemn lesson to the present government,
that measures adopted alter due deliberation, ihould be inflexibly
supported : On this firrnnefs and liability our refpc&ability, our
union and credit, our all depend.
Tefterday, between the hoars of twelve and one,
his Excellency Thomas Mifflin was proclaimed
Governor of this Commonwealth, with the usual ce-
re monies.
The public teflimonials of joy exhibited on this oc
casion, demon[lr ate the general fatisfafiion of the ci
tizens on the elevation of this diftinguijhed charafler
to the Chair of Government.
By the Maflachufetts Spy of the 9th inft. it ap
peal s that the Hon. Artemas Ward is elected Mem
ber of the House of Representatives of the United
States, for Worcester DiihiCt, by a very fuiall
majority.
by ihc Cumberland Gazette it appear*, that the Hon. Georcs
Thatcher is re-ele&cd a Membrr of the Houf_-of Representa
tives of the United States for the Diftri& of Maine.
Ext rafts of letters from Cape-Francois oj the 6th and
Bth of November, to a gentleman in this city.
" In my lail, I mentioned that the Aflembly
had advised the Editor of La Gazette du Jour y to
forbear publishing any thing concerning the in
furrecftion here, which indeed was true : but I
was not then apprised of the true motives of the
Aflembly. It appears that a majority of that
house are Aristocrats —indeed it is certainly so—
and have consequently pafled an edicft, prohibit
ing the publishing of the grounds and progrefsof
the revolution, or any thing concerning it. This
Edic r t yon will fee in the Gazette of today, which
I have enclosed.
" There are but few people here who relish
the Edi<ft, regarding it merely as if a cock had
crowed.
" Since writing my letter of the 6th instant,
the infurreclion of the Mulattoes has nearly been
put an end to : And yefterdny the greater part of
the volunteers returned, having left a few to
watch the motions of the few reinainig rebels,
who are about 400, therelt having dispersed, and
with them their leader, whose name is Oge, not
Ojay, as I before wrote it, who has fled to St. Ja
go, in the Spanifli part of the ifiaud. A reward
of.icoo joes has been offered by the government
so apprehending him. Thus has a dangerous
iufuri e<ftion been quelled by the spirited exerti
ons of the volunteers.
In our last, among the names of the Senators, whose times
expire in March next, we ioierted Mr. Hawkins, which is a mif
take # he drew the class for fix years.
679
We hear that a Resolution is now pending b«-
fore the Senate of the United States, to the sfol
lowing purport—" 1 hat it would be dangerous
and inexpedient to make any alterations in the
Funding Syftein palled the laftr session of Con
gress."
APPOINTMENTS
THE President of the United States, by and 'with the advice an<
consent of the Senate, has been plcafcd to make the following ap
pointments.
Robert Mo r r i s, to be Judge of the Diftrifi of New-Jersey,
in place ot David Brearly, deceased.
John Hrth, ofVirginia, Ensign in the troops of the United
States, in place of Richard Archer, who has declined his appoint
ment.
John Si tc r eaves, Judge of the Diftrift of North-Carolina,
in place of John Stokes, deceased.
Wi l l i am Hill, Attorney for the United States in the diftrift
of North-Carolina, in place of John Sitgreaves.
Zachariah Rowland, Surveyor of the port of Richmond,
in the State of Virginia, in place of Corbiri Braxton, who has
refigncd his appointment. And
Jeremiah N i cols, Collector of-the port of Chefter,in the (late
of Maryland, in the place of John Scott, deceased.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 17/6. 18/. pr. /.
3 pr. Cents 8/6 9/
Defered 6 pr. Cents 8f Bf6.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl.and other Certificates 15/6.
Indents 8/"6 9/
State debts 9fS 10\f.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT.
December 13, 1799.
In obedience to the Order oj the House of Representatives of the ninth
day of Auguji lafl, requiring the Secretary of the Trealury to pre
pare and report, on this day, such fuitbtr provijion as nay y in his
opinion, be necejfary for eflablifhing the public credit—the fmd Secre
tary Rcfpe&fully Reports,
THAT the object which appears to be mod immediately efTcn
tial to the further support of public credit, in putfuanc«of
/ne plan adopted during the last feflion of Congress, is, the eflab
l'fhment of proper and fufficient funds, for paying the interest
which will begin to accrue after the year one thousand {even hun
dred and ninetv-one, on the amount of the debts of the several
flutes, aflumed by the United States ; having regard at the fame
time, to be probable, or estimated deficiency in those already
citablifhed, as they refpeft the original debt of the union.
In order to this, it is necefTaiy, in the firft place, to take a view
ot the lums requisite for those purposes,
The amount which has been aflumed of the state
debts, 15
The sum of annual intercft upon that amount,
which, according to the terms of the proposed
loan, will begin to accrue after the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, is
The cftimated deficiency, in the funds already
established, as they refpeft the original debt of
the United States, is
Making together,
For the procuring which sum, the reiterated reflections of the
Secretary have suggested nothing so eligible and unexceptionable,
in his judgment, as a further duty on foreign distilled spirits, and
a duty on spirits distilled within the United States, to be collected
in the mode delineated in the plan ot a bill which forms a part of
his report to the House of Representatives, of the ninth day of
January last.
Under this impression, he begs leave, with all deference, to pro»
pose to the confederation of the house—
That the following additions be made to the duties on spirits
imported from foreign countries, which are fpecified in the ast
making further provision lor the payment of the debts of the
United States, namelv,
On those of the fir A class of proof therein mentioned, per gal
lon, eight cents.
On thofc of the second class, per gallon, eight and a half cents.
On those of the third class, per gallon, nine cents.
On those of the fourth elafs, per gallon, ten cents.
On those of the fifth class, per gallon, tencrnts.
On those of the sixth class, per gallon, fifteen cents.
And 'hat the following duties be laid on fp ; rits distilled within
the United States, namely :
If from Molafles, sugar, or other foreign materials, and of the
laid firft class of proof, per gallon, eleven cents.
of the said second class of proof, per gallon, twelve ceots.
of the said third class of proof, per gallon, thirteen cents,
of the said fourth class of proof, per gallon, fifteen cents,
of the said fifth class of proof, per gallon, twenty cents,
of the said sixth claf? of proof, per gallon, thirty cents.
If from materials of the growth or production of the United
States, distilled within any city, town or village, and of the
said firft class of proof, per gallon, nine cents.
of '.he said second class of proof, per gallon, ten cents,
of the said third class of proof, per gallon, eleven cents,
of the said fourth class of proof, per gallon, thirteen cents,,
of the said fifth class of proof, per gallon, seventeen cents,
of the said sixth class of proof, per gallon, twenty cents.
And upon each still employed in distilling spirits fiom the like
materials in any other place than a city, town or village, in lieu of
the rates above mentioned, the yearly sum of sixty cents for every
gallon English wine measure of the capacity of such still including
its head ; exempting nevertheless all such stills, wiihin a certain
defined dimtnfion, as are used essentially for domestic purposes of
their refpe&ive proprietors.
The produtt of these fcvcral duties (which correspond in their
rates with those proposed in the report above referred to, of the
ninth of January lad) may, upon as good grounds as the nature of
the cafe will admit, prior to an experiment, be computed at eight
hundred and seventy seven thoufand'and five hundred dollars ; the
particulars of which computation are contained in the (latement
which accompanies this report.
This computed produ6l exceeds the sum which has been stated a«
neceflary to be provided, by fifty thousand eight hundred and fe
ven/y-five dollars, and twenty-seven cents ; an excess, which if it
(hould be realized by the a&ual product, may be beneficially ap
plied towards increasing the finking fund.
The Secretary has been encouraged to renew the proposition of
these duties, in the fame torm in which they were before submit
ted, from a belief, founded on circumstances which appeared in
the different di feu (lions of the fubjett, that collateral considerati
ons, which were afterwards obviated, rather than objettions to the
meafuie itfelf, preventedits adoption during the last feflion ; from
the impracticability which he conceives to exist, of devifingany
substitute equally conducive to the cafe and interest of the com
munity; and from an opinion that the extension of the plan of
colle£hon, which it contemplates to the duties already imposed
on wines and diftillcd fpirits,is neceflary to a well grounded reli
ance on their efficacy and produ&ivenefs. (T§ be centinvcd.J
or go pr. cent.
or 45 do.
4 2 i d».
77 \ do.
45
50 do,
Dolls. Cts.
21,500,000
788,333 31
38,291 4®
826,624 73further particulars relative to Gen. Har mar's Expedition againjl the
Hojlile Indians. (Continuedfrom our lajl.)
GENERAL ORDERS.
Camp at the Miami Village, Oflober 18, 1790.
THE General is much mortified at the unfoldiei like behaviour
of many of the men in the army, who make it a practice to drag
gle from the camp in search of plunder. He in the most positive
terms forbids this prattice in future, and the guards will be an
fwcrable to prevent it. No party is to go beyond the line of cen
tinels, without a commiflioned officer, who, if of the militia, will
apply to Col. Hardin for his orders : the regular troops will ap
ply to the General. All the plunder that may hereafter be collect
ed will be equally distributed among the army ; the kettles and
every other article already taken is to be colle&ed by the com
manding officers of battalions, and to be delivered to-morrow
hiorning to M. Billi, the Quarter-Master, that a tair distribution
may take place.
The rolls are to be called at troop and retreat beating and eve
ry man is to be reported. The General expe&sthat theTe orders
■will be pointedly attended to : they are to be read to the troops
this evening.
The army is to march to-morrow morning early for their new
encampment, at Chilicothy, about two miles from hence,
GENERAL ORDERS.
Camp at Chilicothy, one of -the Shawnee towns, on the Omee River, Oct. 20.
The parry under the command of Capt. Strong is ordered to
burn and deilroy every house and wigwam in this village, together
with all the corn &c which he can colle#.
A party of 100 men (militia) properly officered, under thecom
mand of Col. Ha»din, is to burn and destroy effe&ualiy, this af
ternoon, Pickaway-town, with all the corn, &c. which he can
find in it and its vicinity.
The cause of the detachment being worfled yesterday, was en
tirely owing to the fhameful,cowardly conduct of the militia,who
ran away and threw down their arms, without firing scarcely a
Tingle gun. In returning to Fort-Waftiington, if any officer or
men (hall presume to quit their ranks, or not march in the form
they are ordered, the General will most afluredly order the artille
ry to fire on them. He hopes the check they received yesterday
will make them in future obedient to orders.
GENERAL ORDERS.
Camp at Chilicothy, Oflobcr 21, 1790.
The army, having completely effe£ted the objett for which they
were ordered, viz. a total def\ru£lion of the Maumee towns, as
they are generally called, with the vast abundance of corn and ve
getables, &c. in them and their vicinity, are now to commence
their march, and to return to Fort-Washington.
The General was in fond hopes, that he should be able to break
up the Whea towns on his return : but the weak state of the pack
horfes, and fevcral other circumstances, conspire to render it im
pra&icable at present.
The general is to beat at nine : the Aflembly at half pad nine ;
and the whole army to take up the line of march, precisely at 10
this morning.
It is not improbable but the Savages will attempt to harrafs the
a r my on its return, particularly the rear and flanks. It is there
fore incumbent upon every officer to attend to the duties of his
station, and by no means to quit their ranks, or create the least
confufion ; but on the contrary, to keep silence and good order :
otherwise the artillery, (agreeably to the orders of yesterday) (hall
certainly be ordered to fire upon such men, as are so loft to every
principle of honor, as to run away in the time of danger.
The cattle and pack-horses are to be keptupinthe moflcompaft
order : and the officer commanding the rear battalion, is to be
responsible with the field-officer of the day? that thefc orders are
ftriftly into execution. Such horses, as Mr. Caldwell
may absolutely stand in need of, are to be taken from the mount
ed militia not attached to Major Fontaine's corps, for public ser
vice. If these should be found inefficient, the remainder mult
come from Major Fontaine's corps.
(Signed) JOS. HARMAR, Brig. Gen.
GENERAL ORDERS.
Camp, 8 miles from the ruins of the Maumee town s t on the re
turn to Fort-Wajhington, October 22, 1790.
The army is to remain at the present encampment, until further
orders.
AJter-Orders.
The Genera] is exceedingly pleased with the behaviour of the
militia, in the a&ion of this morning. They hare laid very ma
ny of the enemy dead upon the spot Although our loss is great,
still it is inconsiderable, in comparison to the {laughter made
among the savages. Every account agrees, that upwards of one
hundred warriors fell in the battle : it is not more than man for
man, and we can afford them two for one. The resolution, and
firm determined conduct of the militia this morning, has effectu
ally retrieved their chara&er in the opinion of the general : he
now knows that they can and will fight.
The loss of Major Wyllys (with so many of the federal troops)
and Major Fontaine, two gallant officers, he fineerely and deeply
iaments ; but it is the fortune of war.
The General begs Colonel Hardin and Major M'Mullan, and
Major Hall, of Lieut. Col. Commandant Trotter's regiment, to
gether with the officers and privates of the militia under their
command, to accept his thanks for the biavery displayed
them upon this occasion.
The army is tomarch to-morrow morning at 8 o'clock precisely,
(Signed) JOS. HARMAR, B. G.
GENERAL ORDERS.
Camp about Wiles from the ruins of the Miami towns, on the
return to Fort-H'aJhington % Oflober 23, 1790.
The General did not know in time evening of thegood con
duct of Brigade-Major Orfby, in raljying a party of the militia
and firing upon the savages; whereby he destroyed several of them,
otherwise he (hould then have returned him his thanks. He now
begs him to accept them for his cool and gallant behaviour at that
time.
Although the enemy were so sorely galled in the aflion of yes
terday, they may still take it into tlicir heads 10 hover about our
encampment. The General therefore orders, that the fame vigi
u e and caution, which has hitherto taken place with the guards,
maii constantly be observed ; to which the field officer of the day
is to pay the ftri&eft attention.
The wounded militia are all to be collected into one place ;
Dr. Allifon and Dr. Carmichael are to attend them, dress them,
and give every neceflary direction concernins them.
The army is to march to-morrow morning, at 8 o'clock precifcly.
JOS. HARMAR, B. G.
Note.—From the date of the last order of the Oft. until the
return of the troops to Fort Waftiington, the orders exhibit only
the common details and business of the troops, no enemy having
been seen after the attion of the 22d of October.
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS a certain WILLIAM TUFF, of Salem County,
State of New-Jerfev, has two nine pound notes of hand,
given by Samuel Hollivjhead, jun. and by certain information, it
appears that my name as a security for the fame is added to those
notes, unknown to me. I hereby forbid any person or persons
from taking any rflignment of them from him ; for I am deter
mined not to answer notes, or any alignment of them, as I
know nothing of their dealings, nor will I answer for the fame.
Cumberland County, AV». 30, 1790,
JOS. HARMAR, Brig. Gen,
JOS. HARMAR, Brig. Gen.
REUBEN ROBINSON.
PROPOSALS,
By JOHN TRUMBULL,
For Publishing by Subscription,
TWO PRINTS,
From original Pictures painted by hvnjclf;
One repreienting the Death ot General WARREN,
at the Battle of Bunker's-Hill.
The other, theDiATHof General MONTGOMERY,
in the Attack of Quebec.
IN the battle of Bunker's-Hill, the following Portraits are intro
duced—
American. Britijh.
Major General Warren, Gen. Sir Wi lli am How e. v
Putnam. Sir Henry Clinton,
Lieut. Col. John Small,
Major Pitcairn, and
Lieut. Pitcairn.
In the Attack of Quebec, are seen—
General Montgomery, Colonel Thompson,
M.ijor Macphxrson, and Capt. Cheesman.
CONDITIONS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
The prints will be engraved by two of thr mod eminent artifls
in Europe. The size will be 30 inches by 20. The price to lub
fc-nbers, Three Guineas for each print; one half to be paid at the
time of subscribing, the remainder on the delivery of the prints,
which will be as Toon as the work (which is already considerably
advanced) can poflibly be completed.
Subscriptions are received in this city by Jcj}ph Anthony,
jun. Goldsmith and Jeweller, No. 76, Market-ltreet.
Thefj prints are the firft of a series, in which it is proposed to
represent the moll important events of the American Revolution.
No period of the history of man, is more interesting than that
in which we have lived. The memory of fcencs in which were
laid the foundations of that free government, which secures our
national and individual happiness, mult cvei remain dear to us,
and to posterity ; and if national pride be in any cafe juftifiaole,
Americans have a right to glory in having g'.ven to the world an
example, whose influence is rapidly spreading the love of free
dom through other nations, and every where ameliorating the
condition of men.
To aflift in preserving the memory of the illuflrious events which
have marked this period of our country's giory, as well as of the
men who have been the moil important a&ors in them, is the ob
ject of this undertaking Hiilory will do justice to an aera so im
portant ; but to be read, the language in which it is written mud
be understood—the language of painting is univerlal, and intelli
gible in all nations, and every age.
As several years of his time, and a very considerable expencc,
are necessary to accomplish this undertaking, it would bean im»
prudent faci ifice to the mere hope of reputation to go more deeply
into it, without a probability of ultimate success:—That he may
judge of the degree of this probability, Mr. Trumbull, by the ad
vice of his friends, proposes this fubfeription, and flatters himfelf
with a hope of meeting that patronage from his countrymen,
which willjuftify his pursuing the object with ardor; and with
out which it is impoflible that so expensive a work ftiould be con-
tinued,
The fubjefts proposed to be reprefented,in addition to the two
foregoing, of Bunker' s-Hill and Quebec, are—
* The Declaration of Independence,
* Battle at Trenton,
* Battle of Princetown,
Surrender of General Burgovne,
Treaty with France,
Battle of Eutaw Springs,
* Surrender of York-Town,
Treaty of Peace,
Evacuation of New-York,
Resignation of General Washington,
The Arch at Trenton,
Inauguration of the President of the United States
Each picture will contain portraits of the principal chara&ers
who were present at the fcenc represented. Those marked with
stars, are considerably advanced ; and the prints from the whole
will be executed of the fame size, and by the most eminent en
gravers.
December 14,
PURSUANT to a Rcfolve or ast of Congress of the 10th day
of May, 1780, relative to the dcftru&ion of Loan-Office Cer
tificates by accident ; notice is hereby given to all whom it may
concern, that on the 26th of December 1788, the house occupied
by William HASELTON,ofthe Delaware State, took fire and
was consumed, in which was lodged a number of Loan-Office
certificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the (aid
fire : Therefore if any person, hath any objection why the said
Certificates ftiould not be renewed, agreeable to the resolves of
Congress, they must make them before the expiration of three
months, from the date hereof.
Invoice of Loan-OJficc Certificates dejlroyed in the houJcoJWm. 11 a [tilon»
on the above date.
1788.
October 24, ?of £Qo dollars each. favor of James
6356 one of *400 dollars, ( ASELvrON '
ELIZABETH HASELTON,
Administratrix of
Jam £ s H ase lton, deceased.
[62 61.iaw.]
Philadelphia, Nov. 26, 1790.
Philadelphia, December 7, 1790,
AS the partnership of John Dunlap and David C. Clay
poole will expire on the firft day of January, 1791,
David C.Claypoole propofesto publilha Newfpapcr, entitled
The Mail,
and
New Daily Advertiser.
(To he continued every Evening, Sundays excepted.J
THE MAIL (Hall be printed wilh an elegant new Typf, pro
cured for this particular purpof, on Paper, equal in size and qua
lity to any of the Newspapers of Europe or America—And the
Subscriber engages that 110 Means shall be spared to render the
Mai t and New Daily Adv e rtiser in other refpeEls worthy
of the Public Patronage, which he now refpe&fully solicits.
The Price of the Mai l will be Eight Dollars pr. annum, to be
paid at the end of the Year s And Advertisements will be re
ceived on such modi-rate Terms as to prove fatisfaflory to those
who may be pleased to favor the Printer with their Commands
in that line.
Subfcnptioniare thankfully received at No. 48, Market-Street,
by D C. CLAYPOOLE.
Ebenezer Hazard,
At No. 128, in Second Street, between Race and Vine Streets,
BUYS AND SELLS ALL KINDS OF
Public Securities.
N. B. Persons having Bufmefs to tranfafl at the Public Offices,
mav be assisted, or have their Business done for them (without th<
trouble and exper.ee of a perlonal attendance) on very moderate
"lerms. November 29.
680
PLAN OF THE
Gazette of the United States :
(A NATIONAL PAPER.)
Published at the Seat of the National Government,
Compriiing
I. ARLY and authentic accounts of the Proceedings ofCongrcfh
X_j — Its Laws, Afts y and Resolutions, communicated Co as to
form an history of the tranfa£t:ons of the national government.
11. Impartial Sketches of the Debatet of Congress.
111. EJfays on the great fubjefts of Government; also upon the
local and national rights of the American citizens, as founded up
on the national or state Constitutions ; and upon every other fub
jeft, which may appear suitable for newspaper (lifeuUion.
IV A[cries of Paragraphs, calculated to catch the " living man
ners as they rile," and to point the public attention to objefls
that have an important reference to domeliic, social and public
happiness.
V. The Inter ejis of the United States as conne&ed with their
literary Institutions ; religious and moral obje&s ; improvement*
in Science, Arts, Education and Humanity; their foreign
treaties, alliances, connexions, See.
VI. Every species of Intelligence which may affect the commer
cial, agricultural, manufattunng, or political intercfU of the Ame
rscan nation.
VII. A chain of Domeflic Occurrences.
VIII. A scries offoreign articles of Intelligence.
IX. The flute of the Funds \ Courses of Exchange ; Prices Current.
CONDITIONS.
Publifbed every Wednesday and Saturday.
The price to fubferibers, (exclusive of postage) Three Dol
lars per annum.
The firft semi-annual payment to be made at the time of sub
scribing : The r ecoi»d at the end of the year.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Will he received in all the capital towns upon the Continent ; also at No.
69, Market-Street, between Secondand Third Streets, Philadelphia.
To the PUBLIC.
AT tins important crisis, the ideas that fill the mind, are preg
nant with events of the greatcft magnitude—to strengthen and
complete the union of the States—to extend and prote6fc their
commerce—to explore and arrange the national funds —to restore and
eifcabhfh the public credit—will require the energies of the patriots
and sages of oni country— Hence the propriety of encreafwg the me
diums of knowledge and information.
AMERICA, from this period begins her national exiflcnce—
" the world is all BEFORE her"—the wi(dom and fol
-1) —the misery and prosperity of the empiies, fates, and kingdoms,
which have had their day npon the great theatre of time, and are
now no more, suggest the most important mementos—these, with
the rapid series of events, in which our country has been involved,
have taught the enlightened citizens of the United States,
pom and government —liberty and laws, are inseparable.
This convi&ion led to the adoption of the new constitution ;
for however various the sentiments, refpe£ling the men ts of this
system, all good men are agreed in the neceflity of an efficientfe
deral government.
A paper, therefore, eflablifhed upon national, independent, and
impartial principles—which (hall take up the pjemiled articles,upon
a competent plan, it is presumed, wi 11 be highly intercfting,
and meet with and patronage.
The Editor of this publication is determined to leave no avenue
of information unexplored :—He solicits the assistance oi persons
of leisure and abilities—which, united with his own afliduity, he
flatters himfclf will render the Gazette of the United States not
unworthy general encouragement and is. with due refpeft,
the public's humble feivant, THE EDITOR.
April 15, 1700.
THIS publication commenced with the
present government of the United States:—lts
principal obje<fis are comprised in the above plan ;
they have been thus far attended to, according
to thebefl abilities of the Editor—and that they
are deemed interesting, has been evinced by the
general approbation which the paper has receiv.
ed,and the exren'.ive circulation it has obtained :
It ihall be the aim of the Editor to keep up the
spirit of his plan— every communication condu
cive to that point, will be gratefully received -
Freedom, Government, Union and Peace conftitutp
the happinafs of every country—the United Stated
in a particular manner, have all their present
enjoyments, and future hopes, suspended on the
preliervation of these ejfential pillars of human feli
city : In an ardent vvifh to promote these great
objedis, the " Gazette of the United States" ori
ginated—to these it has been—and fliall be sedu
lously devoted; and while it continues an impar
tial vehicle to the public of governmental tran
fadtions, and interesting information on the most
important fubjeifts, the Editor cannot fail of pub
lic encouragement.
Agreeable to the original design, the publica
tion is now commenced in Philadelphia, the feat
of government for the United States.— Ihe pa
tronage of the citizens of this metropolis is here
by solicited :—Thofe who may wish to form a
judgment of the work, arerefpedtfully informed
that the firlt volume (from April i 759, to April
1790) may be infpedled at the house of the Editor,
No. 69, Market-Street.
The second volume commenced in April last :
The Editor can supply the numbers complete from
that period—which contain the laws of the second
feflion of Congress—and the debates and proceed
ings of the house of Representatives, during four
months of the feflion.
Among the innumerable bleflings derived to
the people of the United States from the present
general gdvernmenr, there is none productive of
happier effects than that spirit of u\iversal
citizenship which has in a great measure era
dicated party and local diftinc r tions,and now forms
a great national feature in the American charac
tcr - The Editor, therefore, with confidence,
takes his Itation in the capital of the United
States, being fully persuaded, thar in proportion
t o his merits, he will receive the patronage of
t he public. JOHN FENNO.