PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 63, MARKET.STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 70, of Vol. ll.] Wednesday, December 29, 179°«
FOR THE GAZETTE OF TIIE UNITED STATES,
MR. FENNO,
EVERY friend ro the mercantile interest of
the United States mutt fee with pleasure the
exertions of an honorable member of Congreft,
from this State, for the improvement of the ma
ritime and commercial law. The bill jor the re
gulation of mariner* in th: merchants' firvice, which
he brought 111 at the lad feflion, does the high
est honor to his patriotism and abilities, and
the greaieft expectations are entertained from
the affreightment bill, which he is now about to
lay before Congress.
Ft has been observed with wonder, that En
gland, the greatest commercial country in the
world, is the only one that is not in potlellion of
a complete regular code of maritime and com
mercial jurisprudence ; and that her judges a>e
often obliged to borrow their notions on those
fubjeeis from the ordinances and writers of other
countries. France, S])ain, Sweden, Denmark,
Holland and even the little confederacy of the
Hanfe towns, all have maritime ordinances.
The ordinance of Philip the second, of Spain,
and the ordinances of Bilboa are justly admired ;
and the ordinances of Lewis the fourteenth, of
France, have ltamped the fame of that monarch
as a legislator, and are become in a great degree
the general law of the commercial world. Was
such an ordinance, Aiited to the particular cir
cumltances of this country, to be compiled from
the variety of rich materials that we have now
before us, and be promulgated in the United
States under the Prelidency of a Washington,
it would not diminiih any thing from the great
character that he has acquired as a promoter of
the happiness of man. It would be highly ufe
ful and fatiefadtory to merchants and mariners,
by ellablidling fettled rules for their ref'pective
dealings and preventing many law-fui's among
them, and perhaps, and it is very probable it
would be the cafe, we should have the honor of
dilating laws to that country from which we
have so long received them ; for there is no doubt
that if the principles ellablifhed in the proposed
ordinance were founded on justice and equity,
Britain would adopt them in preference to those
which she is now obliged to look for in the laws
of other countries.
Siich a work isuot perhaps so arduous as some
perlbns might be apt to imagine. A (mail com
mittee of lawyers ar.d merchants would prwba
bly be able to perfect it and report a plan to
Congress in the space of two years ; the expence
would be trifling, the honor would be great and
the utility permanent; merchants have also long
•wished to have particular courts appointed for
the decision of their own differences ; such courts
are established in.almost every part of the world.
The court of admiralty in England was origi
nally inltituted for thole purposes, but their too
great attachment to the forms of the Roman ju
risprudence, and the just jealousy of the courts
of common law on that account prevented the
desired effe<ft. Certain it is, that matters res
pecting freight, infurancc, bottomry, pilotage,
piracy, captures, fitting out and repairing ships
and veflels, mariner's wages, bills of exchange,
bankruptcies and the numerous other matters
that relate to maritime and commercial affairs,
are Sufficiently extensive and intricate to become
the object of a particular court of judicature.
One judge, fkilledin the laws, with two afleflbrs
taken from the body of the merchants, in the
principal sea-ports of the United Stales, might
perhaps constitute a proper maritime and com
mercial court, with an appeal to some Superior
court of revision, Trial by jury might be pre
served in those cases to which it properly applies;
and as to the expence, there is little doubt but
the merchants themselves would be glad to con
tribute to it, as the court would be instituted
for their own immediate advantages. It would
be improper to fuggefl more, perhaps I have al
ready suggested too much.
A FRIEND TO COMMERCE.
fROM THE (BOSTON) (OLUMBIAX CEXTIA'EL.
LATEST FRENCH ADVICES.
["An obligingcorrefpondent having favoured us with Poris papers,
from the ill to the 14th of O&ober, we are enabled to furnifh our
readers with FRENCH INFORMATION 16 days laterthan hath
been before received.]
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, Oct. 6.
A LETTER was received from the Keeper of
the Seals, informing that the Decrees which
suppress the present Courts of Justice, and cftab
liih new ones, had been received by the Chatn
bers of the Parliament 6f Rouen, Bonrdeaux,
1 ouloufe, Douai, &c.—That tlie Parliament of
Toulouse, on receiving them, came to the follow
ing resolution, which he laid before the Allein
bly.
Extract of the Resolve of the Parliament of Toulouse.
" The Court considering that the French Mo
narchy is verging rapidly to the moment of its
difTolutiou, &c. l J rotejts, in behalf of their Lord
the King, the Clergy, the Nobiftty, and all the ci
tizens, against all att:vi[>ts on the rights of the
Crown—the Annihilation as the Nobility, and the total
overthrow of the French Monarchy : Again!! all
Kdi<fts, Declarations, and Letters Patent, tending
to the suppression of this Court—and the clifinem
bertnent of the province of Lnnguedoc; againlt
all attempts made upon religion, upon the dig
nity of its Ministers, and upon the spiritual ju
rifliiction of the Church, and its Liberties : And
whereas the records made by this Chamber since
the 15th November lait were only provifionaty,
they are hereby declared of no validity or effect:
The said Court ordains, that the present liefolu
tion faall be tranl'cribed upon its records, as a
testimony of their principles, and as a Memorial
that the Magistrates who compose it, and the
people Whom they represent, are devoted to the
King, and to the Nation : They alio ordain, that a
copy of this Resolve shall be sent to the laid Lord
the King. Done at Toulouse, 17th Sept. 1790."
After it was read, Mr. Robespierre rose. " I
observe, said he, that this Aflembly cannot but
view the Members of the Parliament of Totiloufe,
as weak enemies, vanquished and funk under the
weight of the public opinion. I beg tliac
may discover that moderation—that prudent
firmnefs, which is the surest evidence of ilrength
and the diltinguifhing trait of power. Sirj, treat
the Members of this Parliament, as enemies of
the Nation in a manifeft delirium. I reqnelt
then, they may be brought to this bar." This
proposal cxcited great murmurs—m?ny Mem
bers, among others, Mr. Camus, moved, that the
affair might be fabmitted to the committee on
reports, to report the day after to-morrow ; but
others proposed to fa bin it it to the Committee 011
the Constitution. The lalt motion was carried.
Del. 9. —The 'National Afiembly decree, that
the National Loans opened by virtue of former
decrees, {hall be fnut from the day of the publi
cation of the decree.
The new affignats [paper-money] created by
the decree of 29th Sept. /hall be in Notes of 2000,
500, 200, 100, 80, 70, 60, and 50 livres each.
[The following very important Deere: is prefaced
by a lengthy speech of M. Barnave, in which he gives
th: Afembly a particular detail of occurrtnces in the
Colonic, particularly fame illegal measures of the
Municipal Assembly of St. Marc, in the iflatid of St.
Domingo—At the close of which he introduced the
following Decree, which was adopted—]
Off. 12. The National Aflembly, after having
heard their committee on the fubjetft of (the co
lonies, npon the situation of tlie illand of St. Do
mingo, and the events which have there taken
place, considering that the principles oftheCon
ilitntion have been violated, the execution of
their decrees suspended, and the public tranquil
ity dilturbed by the acfts of the General Aflembly
fitting at St. Marc—confideringalfo that the Na
onal Aflembly has promised to the colonies the
speedy eltablifhmenr of laws the most proper to
secure them in the pofleflion of their property ;
that they have in order to quiet tlieir alarms ear
ly announced to them the intention of hearing
their voice on every change which might be pro
posed in the laws prohibitive of commerce, and
their firm determination of eltabl jfhing as consti
tutional articles in their organization, that no
perfpnal laws fliould be decreed for the colonies,
but upon the special and formal request of the
colonial Aflemblies—that they have been solicitous
that the colonies of St. Domingo should realize
these dispositions, by fecuringto them the execu
tion of the decrees of tiie Srh and 2~th of March,
and taking every meafnre neceflary to elbablifh
public order and tranquility—
DECLARES—the pretended decrees and atfts
ifl'ued from the Aflembly appointed at St. Marc,
under the title of the General Aflembly o't the
French division of St. Domingo, an outrageous
attempt against the national sovereignty and le
o-iflative power, and decrees that they are null
and incapable of being put in execution—declares
the said aflembly deprived of its power, and all
685
[Whole No. i 74.]
its members stripped of the charntfter of deputies
of the Colonial Aflembly of St. Domingo—
DECLARES—that the Provincial Allcmbly of
the North, the citizens of the town of Cape-Fran
cois, the parish of Croix de Bouguets, and all
those who have remained faithful to the decrees
of the National Aflembly, the volunteers of Port
au-Prince, those of St. Marc, the patriotic troops
of the Cape, and all other aiftive citizens who
have been guided by the fame principles, have
glorionfly performed all the duties belonging to
the title of Frenchmen, and are thanked in the
name of the nation by the National Allembly—-
DECLARES—that the governor general of Sr.
Domingo, those officers of rank who have faith
fully served under his orders, and ef|iecial!y thai
Sieurs Vincent and de Mauduit, have gloriouily
performed the duties of their functions—
DECREES—that the King <hp.ll be requcfied
to give orders, that the decrees and inftruCiions
of the Bth and 28th of March lalt, ihall be put in
execution in the Colony ofSt. Domingo—that in
consequence they Ihall immediately proceed [ifit
has not yet been done] to the formation of a
new Colonial Aflembly, according to the rules
prescribed by the said infiructions, and to con
form to them precisely—
DECREES—that all established latvs. shall con-
tinue to be executed in the colony of St. Domin
go, until new laws are substituted, following tlie
lteps presented by the decrees aforefaic!—
DECREES, notwitliftanding, that until the or
ganization of the tribunals in the said colony,the
Supreme Council of the Cape shall be continued
in the form in which it was eiiablifhed; and that
the judgment therein rendered, since Jan. 10,
shall not be set alide by reason of the illegality
of the tribunal.
DECREES—that the King shall be requelted,
in order to preserve the tranquility of the colony,
to fend there two ships of the line, and a propor
tionate number of frigates, and to complete the
number of the regiments at the Cape and Port
au-Prince—
DECREES nifo—that the members of the be
fore mentioned General Aflvmbly of St. Domin
go, and the other persons sent frojn the National
Aflembly by the Decree ot Sept. 20th, lhalJ re
main iu the fame condition until further order*
are taken refpe<fling them.
EOURDEAUX, SEPT. 0,0.
This day at noon the corporation with the May -
or at their head and preceded by the trumpets of
the city and a detachment of the municipal guard
on foot, proceeded to the coufthoufe, place dq(
Lombuice, in conformity to the decree of the Na-
tional AUemcdy of the 7th of this month fancfti
oned by the King, to set the seals upon the regj
ftry, archives, and other deposits of papers and
the records of the ancient tribunal, formerly the
parliament. This formality, which drew toge
ther a large concourse of fpeCiators, was finished
without the least disturbance ; the officers of the
corporation were received at the entrance into
the court with universal acclamations. A single
picquet of the National cavalry were held in rea
diness during this operation, which will not be
one of the least brilliant epochs of our history.—
Thus then is fallen that ancient oak, whole root
sprung from the foundations of monarchy, and
whose proud top hasfo often braved the thunder :
The traveller contemplates with some remains of
horror this enormous trunk which lately threat
ened to bury the state in its fall, now laying in
the dust, and blefles the vitflorious hand which
has thrown it down.
Phi l ade lphi a, Dec ember 7, 1790.
A S the partnership of JohnDunlap and DavidC.Cl/>y
iJL pools. will expire on the firft day of January, 1791,
Day id C.Clay pool e propofesto publiih a Newspaper, entitled
The Mail,
New Daily Advertiser.
(To be continued every Evening, Sundays excepted. J
THE MAIL shall be printed with an elegant new Type, pr®J
cured tor this patticular purpofc, on Paper, equal in fizc and qua
lity to any of the Newfpap.rrs of Europe or America—And the
Subscriber engages that no Means shall be spared to render the
Mail and New Daily Adv e r tiser in other refpe&s worthy
0} the Public Patronage, which he now refpe6Hully solicits.
The Price of the Mail will be Eight Dollars pr. annum, to be
paid at the end of the Year : And Advertisements will be re-*
ceived on such moderate Terms as to prove fatisfaftory to those
who may be pleased to favor the Printer with their Command#
in tha: line.
Stibfcriptions arc thankfully received at No. 48, Market-Street^
D C. CLAYPOOtE..NEWBERN, (N. Carolina) Dec 9.
We hear from the territory of the United
States that his Excellency Governor BLOUNT
arrived there about the middle of October lad,
and has since vilited the counties of Walhing
ton, Sullivan and Greene. The people there
are very much pleased with the change of go
vernment, and have received their Chief Ma-
with every mark of refpe<ft and confidence.
We have been favored with the addrels prefent
to him in Greene county.
Tohis Excellency WILLIAM BLOUNT, Esquire;
Governor over the Territory of the United
States, South of the River Ohio. .
The address of the officers, and other inhabitants of
the County of Greene, in the said Territory.
May it please your Excellency.
WE have long since been convinced of the
utility of a separation from the State of
North-Carolina on constitutional principles :
through the liberal policy of that State, the peri
od is now arrived. We have now obtained the
completion of our wishes.. A government is near
-4 or S an ' ze <l tinder the auspices of Congress that
bids fair to secure our happiness and tranquility.
Permit us with the utmost sincerity to afi'ure you,
llr, that among the various ftepsthat conduced to
bring us to our present situation, none gave us
more sensible pleasure than hearing of your ap
pointment to be our Chief Magistrate. Your pa
triotic, and amiable chara«Ser made us readily
conclude that your present Important office could
not confer on you any additional dignity, but
might ealily borrow dignity from you. Antici
pating our future happy profpe<fts we congratu
lated each other on an appointment so plealing
to us all. Your presence has realized our expec
tations and from your former Heady attachment
to the interest of the western country we are ful
ly convinced that we have every thing to hope
and nothing to fear. But amidst our pleating
contemplation of the happy effects of your admi
nistration under the patronage of Congress, wc
cannot forget that the best and wisest plans thai
can be framed to promote the felicity of any coun
try will not accomplish that end without the confi
dence and concurrence of the people. Webej
leave to allure your Excellency, that in our feve
ral Nations, we will chearfully concur in sup
porting the dignity and the energy of govern
ment, fully sensible that none but an efficient go
vermnent can secure our true interest, honor anc
prosperity.
r> • * '
Signed by order and on behalf of the committee.
JOHN SEVIER.
We learn from Fayetteville, that the general
nflembly go on in a manner unusually flow—they
have palled an acft altering the time sos holding
their future sessions, from the firft Monday in
■November to the firft Monday in Decemder—and
an a<ft to prevent any member of Congress, and
all other persons holding any appointment un
der the United States from exercising any office
or appointment of emolument or trust in this
State ; the appointment or office of a justice of
the peace excepted. They have rejected the
bill for carrying into effect the ordinance of the
Convention at Hilllborough, refpecling the feat
of government, by the vote of the chair in the
Senate—they have before them a bill making al-'
terations in the judicial system, which, it is sup
posed, will pass—a bill for placing in the office
of the Commiflioner of loans, the certificates, &c.
of the state, at present in the hands of the Trea
surer and Comptroller, and for purchasing others
to be disposed of in the like manner—and a bill
for dividing the state into five diftritfts for the
ele<fl:ion of Representatives in Congress, which is
as yet a skeleton. The Afleinbly, it is supposed,
will fit until Christmas—great discord among the
members, excited principally by the balloting for
the place where the next Assembly fliall be held,
which is not yet determined on—Newbern has
hitherto flood fair and failed; Tarborough it
seems is next to be tried. No lefsthan ten mem
bers of the eastern diftritfts are absent.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Sketch of the Debates on the MILITIA BILL.
WEDNESDAY, Dec. 22.
THE houfc took, into confideiation the report of the committee
of the whole on the Militia Bill. The amendments were
read by the clerk. An amendment lo the amendment proposed
by Mr.Heiiler was moved by Mr. Boudinot—that the pcrfons of
the militia (hoald be exempt from civil procefj on the days of
rendezvous.
Mr. iivcrmore oppofid the motion—he conceived it was an
unconftitutiouai in.teifercnce with the internal police of the indi
vidual dates. The ftat«! have an exrlufive ri o;ht, laid he, to regu
late the times of training the militia; and Congress has no right
to fay that the citizen, toll or (hall not be liable to a l.gal arret
on such occasions. r ■ l, • \f r
Mr. Boudinot admittd that there was some --eight , Mr
{.ivermore'i obje£ti"ns; .ut at .he fame tune obfcnred thac the
principle once admitted hat Cougre s has a powe ' •
the militia, every ,ne.de,tal power to carry that .dea .mo effect
must follow—he should rcferve h.ipfelf to otter (ome
further remarks on the fubje£t. , r .
The queft.ou being taken, it patted in the affirmative,
amendment, as thus amended, was put and Carrie . «• 1,..
Mr. Bloodworth propoled an amendment to the 2 e io>, y
which all persons exempted by the laws of the re pee ive a 5,
lhould also be exempted by thu law. This was objec 1- o y
several members. .
Mr. L.vermore said it was so general, that it opened toe door to
an aimoft un.verfal exemption—it likew.fe involved an uncertain
ty with refpeft to the present and in.ure laws of the leveral states,
whichought not, in h.s opinion) to be admitted.
Mi. Bloodworth said he moved the amendment, bccaufc he was
fully persuaded that the United' States had nothing to do with the
exemptions heretofore usually made by the particular states It is
proper for Congress only to exempt their own particular olhceis;
but he conf.dexcd the bill of a very important nature, one that
will undergo the ltrifteft scrutiny, and may either be made very
agreeable to the fta.es, or vtry much the rcvcrfe. He adverted i\.
jhe constitution, and said that the powers of Congress only ex
tend to the mere arrangement of the militia ; but, in its present
form, it is a government bill, and goes to the minutae of the regu
lations in the militia. .
Mr. Giles objected to the motion: he considered the feflios,
as it flood without the amendment, useless, and therefore the
amendment is unnecessary; for if the states poflefs thepower of
making the exemptions in themselves, they cannot be deprived of
it. He was consequently agaiuft the present motion, and lhould
move to obliterate the whole, so far as it interferes w ltli the po mct
of the particular states.
Mr. Sherman was opposed to the particular interference of the
general government, any further than they are expressly warranted
by the Constitution. The powers of Congress he contended were
very much limited in refpeit to the militia. He moved a more
general modification of the fe£lion ; by which the officers of the
general government, such as the Member, of Congress, the Execu
tive Officers, Poft-Officers, and Mail Carriers, should be designa
ted, and all other perlon, that arc, or shall be exempted by the
laws of the several States.
Mr. Bloodworth acceded to this modification
Mr. Giles objected to the proportion as amended, as blending
and confuting the powers of the general government with thofc of
the particular States. He obje&ed to it as it went to extend the
privileges of the Members of Congress, whose privileges are de
fined in the Constitution. He obje&ed to it also as it violates the
principle which had before been laid down, that the law-makers
ought to sympathise with those on whom the laws are designed to
operate, and pursuing the idea said, Congress may go on to exemp:
themfelvcs from every public duty.
Mr. Williamfon adverting to the Constitution said, that it was
plain Congress arc to provide for arming and disciplining the mi
litia ; but who are the militia ? Such men he presumed, as are de
clared to be so by the laws of the particular States, and on this
principle he was led to suppose thatthe militia ought to consist of
the whole body of citizens without exception. It this conduc
tion be just, the propriety of the motion is apparent. He did not
anticipate an abuse of the power of exemption on the part of the
States : He thought the period far distant when the United States
would trust their defence to mercenaries. He objected to the nu
merous exemptions proposed to be made by the general govern
ment, and observed that he feared great impofitipns and evasions
would be pra&ifed in consequence of them—the power will be
exercised by- the States, and ought not to be by Congress.
Mr. Burke said no man was in favor of an efficient and compe
tent m'litia more than he -was ; Jrnt the various exemptions con
tended for are so many, tfiat he conceived the cOnfequeuces would
be subversive of the whole plan : Observations had been thrown
out which he was sorry to hear, that except these exemptions
took place, the bill would b- loft. He then mentioned the several
classes proposed to be exempted, by which he fa.d the whole
country would inefieft be divided into twotribes—and the rich,
the governors, and rulers of the land, would be relieved fiom the
burden, while the mechanics, the farmers, the laborers, the hard
working part of the community, would be made to ,sustain the
whole weight of the service in defending the country : He was
opposed to exempting Members of Congress ; in the recess they
may attend militia duty ; it was agreeable to the practice of
S.Carolina; he had himfclf performed militia duty during the
recess. He thought that all should equally be made to turn out in
the ranks, high and low, rich and poor, old and young, and thus
make the militia honorable. I know said he it is the policy of the
day to make the militia odious ; butlhopefuch policy will not
be adopted by this house. He was not however opposed to all
exemptions ; he would exempt the people called Quakers, and all
persons religiously scrupulous of bearing arms, Stage-Drivers, and
Inftruftors of youth ; but their pupils, the students in colleges
and seminaries of learning, should not be «xempted : Youth is the
proper time to acquire military knowledge. He hoped that the
house would not make too diftinft tribes or clafles of people.—
There ought to be no such diftin&ions in a free country.
Mr. Jackson said he was sorry that hishon. friend was so deter
mined to have twotribes of people ; but he fat out with that reso
lution and now concludes with the fame idea. He then advert
ed to the exemption of Quakers, provided for in the bill. He
said thattheoperation of this privilege would bfeto make the whole
community turn Quakers, and in this way it would establish the
religion of that denomination, more effe&ually than any positive
law could any persuasion whatever. He enlarged on the obli
gations which every man owes to society, to afford his personal
services to aiTift and defend the community; pi ote&ion and ser
vice are reciprocal. Those who are exempted ought to pay a full
equivalent on every principle of just ice and equity. He then
adverted to exemptions generally, and advocated thofeofthe Mem
bers of Congress; but with refpe& to all others, he was absolute
ly opposed to them; and said they wcrefo numerous as to destroy
the militia bill altogether. The consequence would be, we must
resort to a standing force for the general defence.
Mr. Vining was opposed to giving the general power of making
such exemptions as they please to the several States : The legisla
ture-os the Union is competent to making such as are neceifary.
He enlarged on the mischievous consequences of delegating this
power : It will, said he, destroy every appearance of uniformity ;
Nor is there any danger that the members of the house will abuse
this power by undue exemptions. With refpeft to the Quakers,
he replied to some observations of Mr. Jackson, who had alked,
what will becomcof our boasted independence in cafe of the ex
emption of the Quakers ? He asked, were there no Quakers in the
late war ? Headvertedlo the conduct of the firft frttlcrs of
Pennsylvania, who were Quakers ; their peaceful principlss were
productive ofthe happiell consequences ; and iij tins view their
conduct has been an etample, which, in proportion as mankind
(hall recede from the force of turbulent paflions, will be more and
more imitated. He however supposed that an equivalent might
be aireffcd on thefc people, without difficulty, and which from
their numbers, foppofed to be one twentieth part of the people,
would amount to a sum fufficient to support a militia ; at lcaft to
furniOi them with arms, drums, colors, &c.
Mr. Lawrance observed that it appeared to him that the obje£t
of the motion is to revive a (übjeft which has already been deci
ded in the committee ; he had not however altered h;s opinion
he still thought that it would be impolittc if not dangerous t-> de
legate a power which they can exercise thcmfelvej.
686
He adverted to the observations of Mr. Giles, that Congress
cannot extend their privileges—and observed that theclaufe in the
cooftitution refers to the privileges of being exempt from arrest,
that they may not be precluded from attending their duty in Con
gress ; with'refpeft to us being an extension of their privileges 10
provide tor their exemption—there cannot be any foice in this,
as it is conceded that Congress may designate the age of the mi
litia—now if their ages are refolded from 18 to 45, iteffe&ually ex
empts all the members of Congress—but this exemption from ar
rest is not the only privilege that members of Congress polfefs—
and he had no doubt of their right in the piefent cafe to exempt
themfi.-)vet ; the expediency of the measure, is abundantly fauc
tioned by the pra£lice of every State in the union.
Mr. fioudinot aflced what is the obje£fc of the bill? It is to pro
vide a uniform militia, competent to ihe defence of the country—
it is not to take money out of the pockets of the people. He then
adverted to the idea that was maintained by several gentlemen,
that the militia ought to consist of every ,person in the United
Statts, and said that rhis, fofar from conducing to the formation
of a national defence, would prove the reverse ; for it would ne
ceflariiy include persons religiously scrupulous of bearing arms,
men in years not able to bear them, and a great variety of cha
racters not suitable to bear them.
With refpeft to exemptions he contended, that the right of
Congress to make them is already conceded ; tor it is already
agreed that the militia shall consist of persons of particular ages,
conlequently all under 18 and above 45 areexprefsly exemoted ;
the reverse of this principle will give the states the abfolut'e con
troul of the general government. He then observed that the amend
ment ought not to be adopted ; because it would be throw ing a
burthen on others, which Congress ought to bear themfeives ; be
cause it will destroy every idea of uniformity ; because it invests
a power in the states to impose fines and penalties which may ope
rate grievously on many descriptions of persons; because it invests
a power in the States to impose fines and penalties which may
operate oppreflivclv on many defcriptionsof persons, because it in
vests the States with a power to make partial exemptions, create
invidious diftinftions, and excite unwarrantable competitions a
mong diffeientclafTesand profeffions. He then adverted to the
Quakers,and asked, what would become of our independence, if
one thousand troops were to attack us, and we had an army of
10000 Quakers to oppofethem : What dependence can be had 011
men, who are forced into the field ? He had trusted that the rights
of men were so well defined ar this enlightened period, that the
principles which had. been advanced, would not have been ap
plied on this oeccafion. He entered into a defence of the exemp
tions generally provided for, and juftified them on principles of
justice and policy. He was (orry 1 hat the diftinftions mentioned
by the gentleman from S. Carolina, had been brought forward.
He had no idea of different tribes or clafTes : The members of
this house at the end of every two years, revert to the mass of the
people, and then become liable to bear their proportion of milium
duty as well as their fellow-citizens.
Mr. Madison moved to insert, among the exemptions, pet Tons
conscientiously scrupulous of bearing arms. It is the glory of our
country, said he, that a more sacred regard to the rights ot man
kind is preserved, than has heretofore been known. The Qua
kers merit fame attention on this delicate point, liberty of con
science : When they had it in their own power to establish their
religion by law, they did not : He was disposed to make the ex
emption gratuitous, but luppofed it impra&icable. He replied
to Mr. Jackfoo's observation, that exempting such persons would
induce the people generally to turn Quakers. He did not believe
that the citizens of the United States would hypocritically re
nounce their principles, their conscience, and their God, for the
fake of enjoying the exemption.
Mr. Sherman seconded this motion. He said that persons con
lcientioufly scrupulous of bearing arms, could not becompelled to
doit; for such persons will rather fuffer death than commit moral
evil ; they may be puniftied it is true, by fines and penalties ; but
whether this would be eligible or not remains to be determined.
U e however have the sense of these people on the fubjeft. He
suggested whether some expedient cannot be devised to operate as
an indemnity, by excusing part of the mil tia from a poll tax, f»
as to equalize the exemption, if made gratuitous..
Mr. Livermore said he disliked the whole amendment. He al
io disliked the bill, on several accounts, more particularly as ic
mterfcrred too much with the regulat ons of the several States.—
The present proportion he thought would comein more properly
in the second fedion:
Mr. Jackson said he was glad that the motion of the gentleman
from Virginia had been brought forward ; it would serve to afcer-
Sentiment of the house, on this important fubjefh He
oblerved, that in his opinion the gentleman had not argued with
his usual ingenuity and knowledge of the human heart, in refpeft
to the exemptions proposed in favor of the Quakers. It is too
evident that mankind Hand in greater dreaa of present cvil r
than of future punishment : The influence of conscience is a weak
defence against the powerful temptations of pecuniary advan
tages ; and as he had been informed fuice became to this city that
one Ouaker will convert ten men to quakenfm, where ten of a
inerent persuasion will not convert one Quaker ; with the afliil
a>ice of this law, the converts said he, will be ten times as numer-»
ous he conceived that the natural operation of it would be to de
y the whole militia bill. He insisted on their being liable to
a penalty in lieu of pcrfonal service, and enlarged on the rcafona
lenefsof paying their proportion to the general defencc. He
replied to Mr. Boudinot's query refpe&ing 10,000 Quakers; they
would all run away said he, and 1000 men in that cale would sub
jugate the country.
Mr. Gjlesobfcrved that he was opposed to the exemption of
t. e Quakers, and gave his reasons ; prote&ion and personal servi
ces rclult from foc:ety : they are due from every individual, and
it is a violation of moral duty to withhold this personal service.
e was infavoi of exempting every man from doing that, which
»is general conduct evinced was contrary to his conscience: but
-annot belaid that it is against the conscience of a Quaker to
od and polfcfs property; therelore every man who ie:eive«-
the protection of the laws,ought to contribute his proportion to tl e
upport of the laws. He then entered more fully into a confeder
ation of the lubjeit, and obje&ed to the exemption as creating an
unwarrantable dilkin£tion between the citizens ; throwing a bur
then on the majority, to lelieve the minority ; giving the minority
privileges for shrinking from their duty : What criterion is there
laid he to determine whether a man isunder the impreflion of cor
ence ' concluded by faying a fine can only determine the
cxiftence of thi? principle.
Mr. Vining was in favor of the exemption,,
but did not think it would be fatisfa<ftory to the
people without qualifying it by an equivalent.
Quakers said he are easily diftinguilhed—every
man knows them.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) This debate seems to be tie
tailed when gentlemen appear to think very
much alike upon the fubjecl. The question is
how the fine or penalty (hall be laflefled ; tho
some appear disposed to exempt those people not
only from personal service, but from all commu
tation. It then seems neceflary that the questi
on should be firft determined whether an equiva
lent (hall be paid or not. According to the sen
timents of some gentlemen : It is proposed to go
further than even this state has, in which the
greatelt number of these perfonsexift—for whenin convention the question was taken for ftiike
jng out the penalty, only 7 or 8 -members rose in
favor of it.—But he thought this proportion im
properly added to the firft amendment, and wiih
ed it might be withdrawn, till the question whe
ther the exemptions should be made by the states
or by the general government is determined.
Mr. Madison, replied to Mr. Smith, he said
that; he conceived his motion a proper amend
stent at this place—as the gentleman from Con
nec r ticut only moved that the exemptions made
by the feverul states should be faniftioned by the
general government :—but it is conceded that
this exemption is not made by the federal itates,
and therefore ought to be here fpecified. He
said he ftiopld acquiesce in an equivalent—iho
he would prefer a gratuitous exemption.
THURSDAY, Dec. 2?.
Tk: Amendments to tht Militia Bill under consider-
The fubje<st of exemptions was further difctif
fed this day.
Mr. Madison withdrew for the present his pro
position in favor of persons religiouily fcrupulaus
of bearing arms. The question then was, whe
ther the power of exempting fliould be exclusive
ly vefled in Congress, or be exercised partly by
the several States.
The question being called for, Mr. Stone moved
that it should be divided, and the queltion for
striking out the words " except as herein after
excepted," in order to admit the proposed a
lnendrnent,being pur, was negatived—the fubtli
tute was fuperce'ded of course.
Mr. Moore proposed as an amendment to the
firft fedtion, to add these words, "or with a good
rifle, a (hot bag, See." which was agreed to.
The amendments to the second session being
read, the debate cm exemptions was renewed.—
The amendment by which the particular States
are empowered to exempt from militia duty, the
legislative, executive, and judicial olficers ot the
rel'ptcftive States, was agreed to by a great ma
jority.
Mr. Madison then renewed his propofiiion in
favor of persons religiously scrupulous of bearing
arms, in a different form from that before offer
ed, and to the following effe<st : " That all per
sons religiously scrupulous of bearing arms, who
lhall make a declaration of the fame before a ci
vil magistrate, shall be excused from performing
militia duty ; but be liable to a penalty of
dollars, to be appropriated as the monies ariling
from the pofl-office are appropriated.
This amendment was seconded by Mr. Boudi
not, and objected to by Mr. Jackftm, and Mr.
Smith.
After some debate, Mr. Madison proposed that
it fhoiild lie on the table for coniidcration—and
the House adjourned.
MONDAY, Dec. 27
f Mr. Goodhue presented the petition of Isaac
Olgood, which was read', and referred to the
secretary of the treasury.
Mr. Burke's motion refpedling a bill for alter
ing! the time of the meeting of Congress, wasta- j
ken into confederation and negatived.
Several petitions, praying ccmpenfation for
services rendered during the late war, were
read, and referred to the secretary at war.
Mr. Firzfimons from the committee appointed;
for that purpose, reported a bill, to ascertain
how far the owners of Ihips or veflels fliall be li
able to the freighters ; read a firft time.
On motion, the house resolved itfplf into a
committer of the whole house, to confi
derationthe report of the secretary of the treasu
ry, on the means of making further provision for
the support of public credit.
Mr. Livermore took the chair, and the com
mittee agreed to the following resolutions, viz.
That an additional duty of 8 ccnts per gallon,
be laid and collected upon all distilled spirits of
common proof, and in like proportion for all o*
ther distilled spirits which (hall after the of
day of be imported into the United States.
Also, that fr«m and after the day of —
next, a duty of 11 cents per gallon be imposed
upon all spirits ofthe firft class of proof, dif>.illed
■within the United States, from sugar, molaflesor
©ther foreign materials—Also, a dutyiri like pro
portion on all other dalles of proof.
Also a duty of nine cents upon all fpirits,of the
firft class of proof, distilled within any city, town
or village within the United States, from mate
terials of the growth, or production of theUnni
ted States, also a duty iji like proportion on all
other clafles of proof. r •
That for each still employed in distilling ipi-
I rits in any other place than a city, town or vil
lage, there to be collected and paid, a yearly
f u , n o f. cents for every gallon,
English wine-meafur«, ofthe capacity of each
still, including its head.
After which the committee rose and the chair
man reported the resolutions, which were read
and agrtfed to by the house.
And a committee of five members was app 01 " 11
cd to prepare and bring i in a bill agreeable tp
ation.
laid resolutions. The committee appointed,
leflis. Sedgwick, Trumbull, La.vrance, Wyn
koop, and Mr. Smith of Maryland. J
The committee of the whole was then difl
charged trom fur'.Vierconfuleration offaid report I
Mi . t itzfimons moved, tliat a committee lby
appointed to bring in a bill 011 the other parts
of rhe report, tor altering the mode of collecting'
the duty 011 wines and teas, and to allow a loi>
ger time for collecting the fame, this motion
was referred to the foregoiug committee.
In committee of the whole. Mr. Livermore
in the chair. /
On the report of the Secretary of the Treafurjl
for the eftablifliment of Land-OtTices for the dif-\
pufalof the vacant lands belonging to the United
States. Af t er some difcudjon of the fubjedt, the
committee rose, and reported progress. t
A mellage was received from the Senate, in-j
forming, that the President of the United States
has this day approved and signed the a<ft, making
further provision for the debt of the United
States
On motion of Mr. Fitzfiinons, a committee of
three was appointed to prepare and bring in a,
bill,to enable the collector of the diftrivft of Penn
iylvania, to permit the landing of goods, at other'
places within this diftritft than the port et Phila
delphia, the river beingobftrucfted by ice. J
TUESDAY, Dec. 28.
The affreightage bill was read the fecondtimej
and referied to the committee of the whole. j
A memorial and remonstrance of the public'
creditors of the United States in the county of
Burlington, and town of Trenton, in New-Jet--'
fey, was read.
Mr. Lee. of the committee appointed for thel
purpose, reported a bill directing the mode in'
which the evidences of the debt of the United
States, which shall be Joft or destroyed, fliall be
renewed—which was read the firft time.
Mr. Lee also reported, from the committee on
the petition of William Robinson, that the cafe
would come within the cognizance of the bill now
reported. The committee was discharged from
any further consideration of the said petition—
and the petitioner had leave to withdraw the
fame.
The petition of John Philip De Haas was read,
and referred to the Secretary of War.
Mr. Fitzfimons reported a bill authorizing th<
unloading of goods, wares, and merchandize, ai
places, other than at the port of Philadelphia
read the firft apd second time—and referred to
the committee of the whole, to morrow.
111 committee of the whole Houle 011 the state
of the Uiiion. Mr. Boudinot in the cha'r.
The Report of the Secretary of the Treafary
on the fubjedis of a Land-Office, and the unap
propriated lands in the Wettern Territory under
confideracion. Further piogrefs was made ; but
the discussion not finiflied. Adjourned. /
ANNAPOLIS, (Maryland) Dec. 23. \
BY the HOUSE OF DELEGATES, DECEM^R
On motion, the question was put, That it «
the opinion of this house that the aftumption of
the State debts by the United States, is a measure
dangerous in its r.onfequences to the
of the several States ? The yeas and nays beingj
called for by Mr. Forreft, were, Affirmative
—Negative 26. _ J
On motion, the question was put, That it
the opinion of this house that the said aflump
tion is particularly injurious to this state ? Th®-
yeas and nays being called for by Mr. Forr eft,
were, Affirmative, 30 —Negative, 28.
The following question being propounded t<j
the house, viz. That it is the opinion of the
house that the said afl'umption is in 110 mannej:
anthorifed. by the constitution of the
States ? the previous question was called for arid,
put, That the said question be now put ? The,
yeas and nays being called for by Mr. Denwoocji
were, Affirmative, 26—Negative, 33.
Ordered, That the said resolutions, with tfl?
yeas and nays, together with the piopofi
tion, and the yeas and nays 011 the previous quel
tion relative to the fame, bepubliihed in the An
napolis, Baltimore, and Eafton newfpapeis.
Deceviber 21.
The following propohtion being propounded
to the house, viz. That the resolutions on the
propositions refpetJUng the affinnption of the ftatt
debts, and the subsequent proceedings thereon,
be and they are hereby rescinded and annullSwi
The' previous question was called for and put,
That the said question be now put ? The yeas
and nays being called for by Mr. Jorreft,
Affirmative, 26—Negative, 26. 1
The house being equally divided, it was de
clared in the affirmative by the honorable the
speaker. ' I
The main question was then put. The yeas
and nays being called for by Mr. Forreft,
Affirmative, 27—Negative 26.
PROVIDENCE, December it. \
On Saturday last thecircuit court of the United State, for
Island diftria was opened at the court-houfc in thta town. C
the following Monday, the court, consisting of chief jufhee Ja*
687
16, 1790,
and jufticr Cushi SB, of the Supreme court of the United State! >
and justice Marchant, of this diftiick court, proceeded to bu
"nels.
A «har-r was given to the grand jury by the chief jnftice full
of good lenf'c and leaning, though expreflcd in the moll plain and
familiar ityle.
A number of a&ions were commenced in this court; but thev
were cither fettled or continues, without a tiial on the merits of
any of them, cither before the court or jury. And on Tuelday
evening the court adjourned, to meet again according to Jaw.
At length have the mild beams of national juflice began to ir.ra~
diate this State, and opened a dawn of hope for better times.
All descriptions of people, who witnclTed the proceedings of
the court, difcovcrcd their entire approbation.
Philadelphia, Dec. 29.
OF FRANCE.
The following order was taken by the Nation*
al AHembly, on the bold protest of the Parlia
ment of Toulouse against their proceedings.
" Ocfrober 9, 1 790.
" On the report of the committee 011 the Con
stitution, the National AHembly DECREES, That
the members of the heretofore-couri of Parliament
of Touloufe,who palled the Relolves of the 25th
and 26th of Sept. last, lhall be impeached before
a Tribunal forthwith to be established, to take
cognizance of High Treason against the Nation.
And considering the nature of the Charges against
tliein, furthermore Decrees, That theKiNG lhall
be intreated to give the necellary orders for ap
prehending all the persons concerning; in fuid
Protefis."
A request has been made by the inhabitants of
LOUISIANA—a diftricft of South America, be
longing to the crown of Spain, to be taken under
the protection of, and to receive the benefit of
the laws of the National Aflembly of France.
Thefirft 400,000,000 of Aflignats, iflued by the
French National Aflembly, bore an intereil of"
five per cent. October 8, the Aflembly decreed
that the interest should cease, after the 16th of
that month. Some call this an ex pojl faflolaw.
The National Aflembly, in some of the French
papers, is denominated the Long Parliament.
They labour inceflantly, Sundays and all days—
but they fcem to be "weaving the web of Penelope—
u Who though (he stoutly did bestir her,
Her fioifKing was ne'er the nearer."
Every citizen of the United States is interested
in the rife of the public paper—whether a pro
prietor or not; for in proportion as its value ap
proaches to that of specie, an additional medium
is introduced, by which every person who has
any thing to do with trade, commerce, agricul
ture or manufactures, is benefited.
It is undoubtedly a fa&, that this country hal
never been in pofleflion of a fufficient quantity
of the precious metal to conftituce a competent
circulating medium, without the auxiliary of
paper money ; hence, before the revolution, tie
part of the then provinces, had their
particular emissions, funded on various princi
ples —to this circumstance may perhaps be cliief
'ly attributed the facility with which the im
emiffions of contiuental paper Aid into
circulation ; and though an unfunded debt is the
biuke of a country, because it will encreafe, and
r&caufe it will depreciate ; yet, an addition to
medium of the United States ofbanjc
paper, bottomed on substantial funds, such as,
through the favor of heaven, are now within out"
reach, will molt undoubtedly invigorate every
jlpwng of industry and enterprize that can pot-
Tthly beset in motion.
X PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT
6 pr. Cents 18/. pr. £
3 pr. Cents 9J-
Defered 6 pr. Cents gjl
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates ijJ6. 16f. 80 do.
Indents 97-* 45 r> *
State debt* do,
-r-The purchases of public debt made yesterday
by the Treasurer of the United States, were at
)tlie following rates : Funded, 6 per cents a 12f.
Deferred, 6 per cents, and 3 per cents at 9f.
THE Subscribers jor this paper, in the city 0/New-York,
H-uUptftjully informed, that the charge oj the papers proving inconve
ient to Mr. Wetmorc, at the Pofl-OJice, the Editor has engaged Mr.
Jmuel Campbell, Book-feller, Hanover-Square, to receive them ani
upeiintend their delivery—by whom Subscriptions will be received. .
-Henry KUH L,
At No. 143, Second-Street, near Race-Street,
[-QY aiviee of his friends in New-York and Philadelphia, ba
I XJ opened an office for the purpose of buying and felling, on com__
mission, ihe different fpeciesof Slock, and of liquidated znd urditpn
\i«J«£paper in the market.
/ He will obtain such Certificates as are required by the/im<(ln£
law, for those who have unliquidated Securities ; and transfer stock
Urom and to the Treasury and the Offices of the Coram iflioners ot
I Loans, on moderate terras.
Having for leveral years past been employed in the Trealury of
the United States, he is well acquainted with iis operations and
forms; and flatters himfelf that on that score he has a decided ad
vantage in tranfafting business here. Heis fully impressed wiih
the truth of the adage that » dispatch is the foul of business, and
•>wi!l always make the interest of his employer* an object of tb«
fiVft importance.
1 ritiludeiphia, Dumber 2yth, 1790.
/
or 90 pr. cent.
or 45 do.
45 do '- * * ' v - n"' *'•% A . «.»,**»,.._
>>
(conclODID FROM OUR LASt.)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,"]
Dicembtr 13, I 790. J
In obedience to the Order of the House of Re
presentatives of the Ninth day ot Augult last,
requiring the Secretary of the Treasury to pre
pare and report, on this day, such further pro
vision as may, in his opinion, be necefl'ary for
eftablifliingthepubliccredit—the faidSecretary
Refpeflfully Reports,
A MONG other substantial reasons, which recommend, as a
provision for the public debt, duties upon articles of con
f'jmption, in preference to taxes on fioufcs and lands, is this It is
vciy dcftrable, if practicable, to refcrve the latter fund for obje&s
and occasions, which will more immediately intercft the fcnfibili
ty of the whole community, and more dire&ly afFett the public
fafety. It will be a consolatory reflexion, that so capital a resource
remains untouched by that provilion, which, while it wiii have a
very material influence in favor of public credit, will be also con
ducive to the tranquility of the public mind in refpeffc to external
danger, and will really operate as a powerful guarantee of peace.
In proportion as the e'ftimation of our resources is exalted in the
eyes of foreign nations, the refpeft for us must encreafe ; and this
must beget a proportionable caution neither to insult nor injure
us with levity. While on the contrary* theappcarance of exhauft
cd resources (which would perhaps be a confeqitence of mortga
ging the revenneto be derived from land, tor the intercft of the
public debt) might tend to invite both insult and injury, by in
spiring an opinion, that our efforts to resent or repel them were
little to be dreaded.
It may not be unworthy of reflc&ion, that while the idea of re
siduary resources, in so striking a particular, cannot fail to have
many bcneficial consequences ; the suspension of taxes on real
estates can as little fail to be pleafirtg t6 the mass of the communi
ty ; and it may reasonably be prefumcd, that so provident a for
bearance on the part of the government will ensure a more cheer
ful acquiescence on that part of the class of the community imme
diately to be affe&cd, whenever experience and the exigency of
conjun&urcs shall difiate a resort to that species of revenue.
But in order to be at liberty to pursue i his (alutary course. it is
indifpenlable that an efficacious use should be made of thofc arti
cles of confomption, which are the most proper and the mod pro
du6live ; to which class distilled spirits very evidently belong ;
and a prudent energy will be requisite, as well in relation to the
mode of collection, as to the quantum of the duty.
It need scarcely be observed, that the duties on the great mass
of imported articles, have reached a point, which it would not be
expedient to exceed. There is, at lead, fatislaftory evidence, that
they cannot fre extended farther, without contravening the sense of
the'body of the merchants ; and though it is not to be admitted
as a general rule, that this circumftanee ought to conclude against
the expediency of a public measure; yet when due regard is had
to thedifpofition which that enlightened class of citizens has man
ifefted towards the national government —to the alacrity with
which they have hitherto seconded its operations—to the accom
modating tamper with which they look forward to those addition
al impositions on the objetls of trade, which are to corhmence
with theenfuing year, and tothe greatnefsof the innovation, which
in this particular, has already taken plactf in the former state of
things, there will beperceivcd to exist the most solid reasons again ft
lightly palling the bounds which coincide with their impreflions
of what is reasonable and proper. It would be, in every view,
inauspicious to give occasion for a fuppofitionj that trade alone is
destined to feel the immediate weight of the hand of government,
in every new emergency of the treasury. •
However tnie, as a general portion, that the consumer pays the
duty, yet it will not follow, that trade miy not be effenrially dif
trefled and injured, by cairymg duties on importation to a height
which is difproportioned tothe mercantile capital of a country.
It may not only be the cause of diverting too large a share oi it
from the exigencies of business, but as the requisite advances to Sa
tisfy the duties will, in many, if not in molt, cases, precede the
receipts, from the sale the articles on which they are laid, the
consequence will oken be facrifices which the merchant cannot
afford to make.
The inconvenience of exceeding the proper limit, in this refpeft,
which will be felt everv where, will fall with particular severity
on those places which havf not the advantage of public banks,
?nd which abound least in pecuniary resources. Appearances do
not juftify l'uch an estimate of the extent ot the mercantile capital
of the United States, as to encourage to material accumulations <-?i
the, already considerable, rates of tile duties on the mafsof foreign
importation.
Another motive for caution on this point, aiiCs from the re
flexion, that the effect of an important augmentation made by law
of the lall session, is hitherto a mere matter of speculative calcula
tion, and has not yet even begun to be tried.
It is presumable too, that a flill further augmentation would
have an influence, the r-everfe of favorable to the oublic credit.
The operation would be apt to be regarded as artificial —as defti
tutc of fohdity —as prefeming a nurricrical increase, but involving
an actual diminution of revenue. The distrust of the efficacy of
the present provision might also be accompanied with a doubt of
a better substitute hereafter. The inference would not be unna
tural, that a defect of other means, or an inability to command
them, could alone have given birth to so unpromising an effort to
draw all from one source.
A divcrfification of the nature of the funds is desirable on other
accounts. It is clear that less dependence can be placed on one
fpccies of funds, and that too liable to the vicissitudes of the con
tinuance, or interruption of foreign intercourse, than upon a vari
ety of different funds formed by the union of internal with exter
nal objects.
The inference, from these various and important considerations,
seems to be, that to attempt to extroft wholly from duties on im
ported articles, the sum necefiary to a complete provision for the
public debt, would probably be both deceptive and pernicious ;
incompatible with the inferefts, tvot less of revenue than of com
merce ; that resources of a differenrkind mull of ncccfuty be ex
plored ; and that the feledtion of the mod fit objects is the only
thing which ought to occupy enquiry.
Sefidcs the establishment of fupplemcntary funds, it is requisite
to the support of the public credit, that those eftablifhrd should
stand upon a footing which will give all reasonable afTurance of
their effectual collection.
Among the articles enumerated in the ast makingjjprt'ier provi-
Jionjor the payment of the debt of the United States, there are two,
wines and teas, in legard to which some other regulations than
haveyet been adopted, Teem necessary for the security of the reve
nue. and defirablefor the accommodation of the merchant.
With these views, it is submitted, that the term for the payment of
the duties on wines be enlarged, as it refpecls Madeira wines, to
eighteen rnomhs ; and as it refpe&s other wines, to nine months ;
and that they be colle&ed on a plan fimilarto thatpropofed in re
lation to imported diftilied spirits.—
And that a third option (two being allowed by the prcfent law)
be given to the importers of teas; which fliall be, to give bond
without surety for the amount of the duty in each cafe, payable in
two years, upon the following terms—
The teas to be deposited at the expence and risk of the importer
in flore-houfes to be agreed upon between him and the proper
officer of the revenue ; each store-house having two locks, the key
of one of which to be in the custody of the importer or his ag. iv,
and the key of the other of which to be in the cultody of an cHB-
•«v •<-
V * >
cer, whose duly it (hill be made to attend, at all reasonable times,
for the purpose of deliveries. . ♦~;«« tn a
These deliveries, vhetber for-home sale, or o. cxp
foreign country, to be warranted by permits from the chief cm
cer of infoeftion of ne place. , i(Wall
If for home sale, ne permits to be granted after the out
have been paid, or fecurcd to be paid.
When the amount of the duties shall not cxcee .
dollars, four months to be allowed for payment
exceed one hundred dollars, and not exceed five unorc f «• »
the term of payment to be eight months; ant twe vc mc
whenever the amount (hall exceed five hundred dollars ; 1 rovl^ a >
That the credit (hall.in no cafe extend beyond the peri of <>
years originally allowed for the entire sum. If the uties on
whole ddafttit'y deposited (hall not have been pai , or ecure
be paid, before the expiration of that time, it faa.l ~>e aw i li or
the propei officer to cause a sale to be made of lo ias ..j )C
f'ifßcient to discharge what shall remain unfatish.d. In every
cafe, it shall be at the option of the part; applying for the permit,
cither to pay the amount of the duties on the quantity to be deli
vered, or to give bond for if, with one ormore furetn's, to the ia
t is ration of The officer whose province it shall be to giant the pei
mits.
If the deliveries arc to be made for exportation, the permits to
be granted upon bond being entered into to fecurc and afccrtain
the exportation. This may require some alterations of form, in
the manner of proceeding, relatively to the expoitatton of t is
article. .
All teas to be landed under the care of the infpettors ot the re
venue ; the cht (Is and other packages containing them to be mar
ked, and certificates which shall accompany them to be granted,
as in the cafe ofdiflillcd spirits.
To these more direst expedients for the support of public cre
dit, the inditution of a National Bank, presents itfelf as a necelia
ry auxiliary. This the Secretary regards as an indispensable en
gine. in tire adminiflration of the finances. To present this impor
tant object in a more diflinft anS more comprehenfivc light, he
has concluded to make it the fubjeft of a separate Report, which
he begs leave herewith to submit No. 11.
All which is humbly fubmittcd.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary oj the Treasury.
Estimate of the probable Product of the Funds, proposed in the
annexed Report.
4,000,000 gallons of diflilled spirits imported from
foreign countries, at 8 cents per gallon, 320,000
3,500,000 gallons of spirits, distilled in the United
Slates from foreign materials, at xi cents pr. gallon, 385,000
3,0®0,000 ditto, distilled from'materials of the United
States, at 9 cents per gallon,
Total dollars.
Dedu6l for drawbacks, and expeace ot colledfcion,
10 Dcr ccnt.
Net produtt,
PURSUANT to a Rcfolve or ast of Congress of the 10th day
of May, 1 780, relative to the deftru&ion of Loan-Office Cer
tificates by accident ; notice is hereby given to all whom it may
concern, that on the 26th of December 1788. the house occupied
by Wi l l lam Has e lton, of the Delaware State, took fire and
was consumed, in which was lodged a number of Loan-Office
certificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the said
fire : Therefore if airy person, hath any objection why the said
should not be renewed, agreeable to the resolves of
Congress. they must make them before the expiration of three
months, from the date hereof.
Invoice of Loan-OJfice Certificates dcjlroyed in the house of Win. Hafelton'
on the above date.
1788.
October 24, 4873 ) j o j] ars eac l, t ( favor of James
4 5 Haselton.
6356 one or 4CO dollars, (
ELIZABETH HASELTON,
Philadelphia, Nov. 26, 1790.
Ebenezer Hazard,
At No. 128, in Second Street, between Racc and Vine Streets.
BUYS AND SELLS ALL KINDS OF
Public Securities.
N. B. Persons having Business to tranfafr at the Public OfEces,
may be aflifted, or have their Business done for thetn (without the
trouble and expence of a personal attendance) on very moderate
Terms. November 29.
INTELLIGENCE-OFFICE,
No. 208, in Market, above 6th Stuiet, Southf,dc,
WI L L be negociated all kinds of PAPER
MONEY and
Public Securities,
BUSINESS tranfacftecl in public offices in the
city, and such Paper-Money and Certificates furnilhed, as will
make payment at the Land Office equal to Gold and Silver.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, and BILLS,
BONDS, and NOTES of HAND difcounteci.
HOUSES, Farms, Lands, and Lots, bought
and fold, let or leafed, and Houses, Rooms, and Lodg
ing procured for Strangers, or others.
BOOK-KEEPERS, Clerks, School-Matters,
Waiters, Nurses, ScamflrelTes, Chamber and other Maids, and
those of other profeflions, who come well recommended, miav
hear of employ ; and Employers be fupplicd, bv applying to
FRANCIS WHITE.
Dealer in Paper Money, and Picblic Securities.
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
T E
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c
Of the fir ft Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market-Streets.
John Francis,
Late of New-York, refpc&fully informs the public, that he
lias opened a
Commodious Boarding House,
No - 53' Fourth-Street, one door from Rare-Street,
WHERE Gentlemen may be accommodated with
<;£nteel boarding and lodging,
By tlic Week, Month, or Year, and on the mod moderate terms.
Pbiia. Nov. 20, 1790, [saw.3m.]
- V - ft 1
.<* '/v"
688
Dollars,
Administratrix of
James Hase lton, deceased.
[62 6r.iaw.]
At the
A S
it'
PROPOSALS,
Bv JOHN TRDMBUI, L,
For Publishing by Subscription,
TWO PRINTS,
Front original Pictures painted by him J elf\
One representing the Death of General WARREIf,
at the Battle of Bunker 1 s-llilL
The other, the. Death of General MONTGOMERY,
in the Attack of Quebec.
IN T the battle of Bunker's-Hill, the following Portraits are intro
duced —
American. Brit'Jh.
Major General Warren*, Gen. Sir Will i-am Kowe,
Putnam. Sit Henry Clinton,
Lieut. Col. John Small,
Major Pitcairn, and
Lieut. Pitcai r n.
In the Attack of Quebec, are ft en—
General Montgomfry, Colonel Thompson,
Major Macpherson, and Capt. Ch eesman.
CONDITIONS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
The prints will be engraved by two of the molt eminent artists
in Europe. The size will be 30 inches by 20. The price to fub
fenbers, Three Guineas for each print; one half to be paid at the
time of fubferibing, the remainder on the delivery of the prints,
whichwill be as loon as the work (which is already confidcrably
advanced) can poflibly be completed.
Subscriptions are received in this city by Joseph Anthony,
jun. Goldsmith and Jeweller, No. 76, Market-ilrcet.
Thef.' prints are the firft of a ferics, in which it is proposed t#
reprcfcnt the most important events of the American Revolution.
No period of the history of man, is more interesting than that
in which we have lived. The memory of scenes in which were
laid the foundations of that free government, which secures our
notional and individual happirvefs, must cvei remain dear to us,
and to posterity ; and if national pride be in any cafe juftifiable,
Americans have a right to glory in having given to the world ar\
example, whose influence is rapidly spreading the love of free
dom through other nations, and every where ameliorating the
condition of men.
To aflift in prcferving the memory of the iUuftrious events whick
have marked this period of our country's giory, as well as of the
men who have been the mpft important a6iors in them, is the ob
ject of this undertaking History will do jufticc to an iera so im
portant ; but to x bcread, the language in which it is written mult
be understood—the language of painting is universal, and intelli
gible in all nations, and every age.
As several years of his time, and a xfry considerable cxpencr,
are neceflary to accomplish this undertaking, it would bean im
prudent facrifice to the mere hope of reputation to go more deeply
into it, without a probability success : —That he may
judge of the degree of this probability, Mr. Trumbull, by the ad
vice of his friends, proposes this fubfeription, and Hatters himfelf
with a hope of meeting that p?tronage from his countrymen,
which will juftify his pursuing the object with ardor; and with
out which it is impoflible that so expensive a work should be con-
Dollars.
270,000
975> 000
97»5 00
877,50°
tinued,
The fubje&s proposed to be reprefented,in addition to the tw»
foregoing, of Bankcr r s-Hill and Qutbec, arc—
* The Declaration of Independence,
* Battle at Trenton,
* Battle ol Princetown,
Surrender of General Burgoyne,
Treaty with France,
Battle of Eutaw Springs,
* Surrender of York-Town,
Treaty of Peace,
Evacuation of New-York,
Resignation of General Washington,
The Arch at Trenton,
In a ugu ration of the President of the United State*.
Each pitture will contain portraits of the principal charattcrs
who were present at the scene represented. Those marked with
stars, are considerably advanced; and the prints from the. whole
will be executed of the fame size, and by the moll eminent en
gravers.
December 14,
To the Merchants, Traders, Foreigners, and the Public in general.
Gentlemen,
AGREEABLY to the plan which the Subscriber submitted t«
the public confederation, and under the mod flattering affur
ancc ot public patronage, he takes the liberty of announcing, that
EXCHANGE COFFEE HOUSE,
is now opened at the corner of Market and Water-Streets, for the
accommodation of the Merchants, Traders, and other Citizens of
Philadelphia.
The Subscriber deems it unneceflary to repeat the declarations
of his sincere intention to prosecute his undertaking with the most
rcfpe&ful afliduity : But he cannot forbear making a public ack
nowledgment of his gratitude, for the encouragement he has alrea
dy experienced ; nor suppress his invariable wish, that those gen
tlemen who may honor hisCoffec-Houfe with their presence, will
communicate such articles of intelligence received from their cor
respondents as they shall think, proper, and in preference, will up
on every occasion, point out the defeats of his plan, or favor hir*
with hints for improving its execution.
The Subfcribei will prepare entertainments,cither at noon, or ia
the evening, tor felcft parties, upon the fhortc ft notice, and on the
mod reasonable terms. He can accommodate two or three Gen
tlemen with lodgings ; and proposes at two o'clock on each day,
wheu the public buhnefs of the CofFce-Room is over, to provide a
cheap, but good and plentiful ordinary, for such guests as (hall
please to honor him with their company.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your most obedient and humble Servant,
Dec. 18.
By Thomas Lang,
And fold by Francis Bailey, Joseph Crukshank, Wil
liam Piiicha ro, and Ri c e and Co. in Market-Street ; and
by Thomas Dobson, Wi lli a*m Young, and Robert
Campbell, in Second-Strect, Philadelphia,
Price t2 j. 6d. (not half the price of the London edition)
The Poems of Ossian,
Translated by JAMES MACPHERSON, Es e .
WHEREAS a certain WILLIAM TUFF, of Salem County,
State of Ncw-Jerfey, |ias two nine pound notes of hand,
given by Samuel Hollinjhead, jun. and by certain information, it
appears that my name as a lecurity for the fame is added to those
notes, unknown to me. I hereby forbid any person or pcrfons
from taking any aflignment of them from him ; for I am deter
mined not to answer those notes, or any aflignment of them, as I
know nothing of their dealings, nor will I answer for the fame.
QnmbcrUni County t A'#?. 30, 1790.
? 4
«*" U,
- .
THE MERCHANTS,
VINCENT M. PELOST.
This day is published,
No. 21, Church-Alley,
THE
SON OF FINGAL
REUBEN ROBINSON.
*
J
'H
.•'» . • :a