ts
- ' ]
&azdu ofiS
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AN'D SATURDAYS BY JOHN FESKO
[No. 6 4, of Vol. ll.]
FROM THE AMERICAN MF.RC'.'RY
THE last fifteen years, unquestionably form
the most extraordinary period in the hilto
ry of man. Ihe progress made duringthat time,
by various nations, in exploring, ascertaining,
and eftabliihing the true principles of freedom
and government, has been unequalled in the
lapse of nearly fix thousand years. Monarctis
have been taught, that a sacred regard to equita
ble laws, and an equal, and impartial adminis
tration of jufiice, among subjects oi every aeno
initiation, are the diftinguilhing charaCtei iftics,
of dignified, and applauded Sovereignty. The
deep-rooted prejudices of bigotry have been in
foine measure eradicated from the human brealt;
and that liberty of sentiment, which holds out to
talents and integrity, the dignity of office, has
been the fucceflor. The injured Hebrews, who
fpr.ahnoft two centuries, have been objects of
the bitterest vengeance for every blood-thirity
tyrant, have emerged from the depth ofoppref
iion and torture, and are beginning to experi
ence the benignity of wholesome laws, and to
enjoy the common privileges of social beings.
Even the unfortunate Africans, who have hither
to been forced to f:!»port the whole weight of
the primitive curse pronounced upon man, at
length behold the fivlt dawnings of the fun of
liberty, and realize the Satisfaction oi being
raised in the opinion of their fellow creatures,
to a more elevated rank in the scale of being.
At the contemplation of these great events,
anil the profpedt they afford, the benevolent
mind tmift glow with the warmest rapture. And
certainly no joy of which the human foul is luf
ceptable, is more perfectly conformed to reason
and virtue. The unworthy diftincSiions of coun
try, and place, rapidly wear away ; and the be
nevolent, and honest inhabitants of the globe,
liave discovered an indifioluble tie, formed by
the God of nature, to connect in the flriifleft am
ity all the friends of man.
The consequence of this discovery, are ex
trcmeiy inrerelting to mankind. Among others,
the following may be mentioned.
In the firft place, it has produced a disposition
in the human breast, to cultivate the bleiiingsot
peace. War, with its neceflary train of evils, is
at length viewed in its own horrid colours. Ihe
supporter of freedom—the laviour of his coun
try —is alone dignified with the title of Hero—
while the savage monster, who, being a fold'ier by
frofe{fiQ7i, embrues his hands in the blood of his
brethren of the human race, is condemned and
execrated, as a foe to the happiness of mankind.
Another important consequence of this disco
very, is an enlarged liberality of fentiinent a
mong raen. The liberality to which 1 refer, is
tlifcernable in the spirit of religious toleration,
which ipreads like a flood over the face of the
earth. This toleration, when it becomes uni
■verfal, cannot but accotnplifh matters of the
highest importance to the world. Truthandrea
fon, will then burst with irrefutable energy from
the dark clouds <>f superstition and bigotry ; dif-
pel the mills of error and absurdity, and bring
the great family of the world to an uniformity
of religious belief, and worfliip. Such an uni
formity, will involve in itfelf the greatest poifi
ble good to mankind. The whole human fptcies,
will then be in pursuit of the fame great objetft—
final happiness—The intervention of contusion
and discord, will retard their progress towards
the goal of their wilhes—Of course, peace, friend-
Ihip, social communion, must pervade the earth.
A third, and in my view an important conse
quence of this discovery, is a growing urbanity.
By urbanity, I would be understood to mean,
that love of truth aud justice, which is opposed
to all envy and detraction—which is disposed
ascribe merit where it is due, let the of
commendation belong to any nation, community,
or party. This disposition, not only argues an
enlarged, and liberal habit of thinking ; bur is
aforcible itiiaulous to virtuous exertion—For
the temporal reward of virtue, is bestowed in the
hpneft applause, of honest men.
These appear to me some of the advantages,
which will result to the world, from the habit of
■viewing the virtuous characters of every coun
try, language and complexion, as members of
•the fame family, embarked in the fame caul'e,
and atftuated by the fame great principle—the
love of human happiness.
ALFRED.
Nr 69, AURKEr.STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD it i REE IS, PHILADELPHIA
Wednesday, December 9, 1790.
LU N DON' Sept. 15
WEDNESDAY last a fine new brig, lately
built at Leith for the herring fifhery, of
80 tons burthen, failed thro the great canal for
Greenock, being [he firft veflel that ever pasTed
tliro the canal from the East to the Weft Sea.
Yesterday the worftiipful company of Apothe
caries held their herbarizing tor this ieafon, at
the Mermaid at Hackney ; when the prizes an
nu illy given by the company to their apprentices,
who have made the grearett proficiency in bota
ny, were conferred on Meilrs. Henry Hall and
Francis Moore.
The abolition of titles we never wiih to take
place in this country ; but there are two titles
which certainly (land much 111 need of definition,
Man of Honor and Gentleman.
Protejl of the Marechal Due t/e Broglio, a Prince
of the Holy Roman Empire, againji thf decree of
the Representatives of the French Nation, pajfed
the 19 th of June lajl ,for the Abolition oj hereditary
Nobility.
" At the time of my being promoted to the
firfl military rank, I took a l'olemn oath before
the King, that 1 would advifehimof everything
which should have a tendency to endanger his
Crown,orihake the foundations of the monarchy.
" The abolition of hereditary Nobility, will
certainly produce those fatal effects, and eventu
ally ruin and annihilate both ; far the exiHence
of Royalty and Monarchy is impoflible, without
the support of hereditary Nobility, which lias,
for ages, been the ornament of the nation and
the glory of the Monarch.
" I should think myfelf highly culpable, if I
did not express in the strongest terms, my disap
probation of this degrading and ruinous mea-
sure,
" Born of noßle parents, 1 was early educated
among the young nobility of France :—1 have
since gradually obtained the firft rank in che ar
my, and have had the honor to lead them, zea
lously devoted to the service of their Kiu£
country, againlt the enemies of both.
" I have frequently witncll'ed their character
jftic valour, which was the admiration even of
those whom they had vanquished.
" I seize with eagerness, this present oppor
tunity, to acknowledge with sincere gratitude,
and heartfelt pleasure, my personal obligations
to those noble and heroic officers, and to those
brave and well disciplined Legions, to whom I
am indebted for the victories which 1 have ob
tained, and for the honors to which I have been
promoted.
" It is impoflible, that I (hould, on the pre
sent occasion, refofe to unite with theni in pro
testing against a decree which invades and anni
hilates the dearest and most sacred rights.
" I should be highly criminal, were I to re
main filetit, and tamely fuffer the interests at the
crown and of the Nobility to be wantonly inva
ded with impunity.
" Resolved, therefore, to observe the solemn
oath which I have taken, and to discharge the
fcveral duties of" Marechal de' France, of a Noble
man, and father of a numerous family, to whom
it is incumbent 011 me to transmit the honoxs
which have descended to 111 c from my anceltors,
I protest against tlie decree of the 19th of June
last, which abolishes the hereditary nobility ;
and I will cause this Protest, properly attested,
to be lodged in the public Depots—as a teftiinony
which shall evince to France, to Europe, and to'
posterity, my firm attachment to a body of No
bles so truly refpetftable, and my affection forniy
children. (Signed)
Le MakechalDuc de Broglio.
Treves Aug. 1, 179°-
08. 6. Yesterday morning, the French Am
baflador received letters from Paris ; after peru
sing them his Excellency went to Manchelter
Holife, and communicated their contents to the
Marquis Del Campo, the Spari(h Ambaflador.
The Procedure Criminelle, juit published in
Paris, is likely to produce a very ltrong effect
! against the late Duke of Orleans. It is thought
there fufficient proofs to convict him of pav
ing aimed at depoling the present King in the
month of o(ftober last. _
Oft. 11. General Sir Archibald Campbell is
the most probable person to have the chief com
mand of the troops, 011 any expsdition that may
take place in the Western Hemisphere.
From the circumstance of ten thousand stand
of arms being ordered to be Ihipped on board the
-665-
[Whole No. 168.]
fleet delVined for foreign service, it may be fairly
presumed that a plan of operations is concerted
in the cabinet, of a nature decidedly ofFenfive.
1 he Spaniih Settlements already entertain a dif
potiiion of revolt. Wlien furnifhed with arms,
and encouraged by powerful support, there can
not be a doubt but that they would rife against
iheir present uiafters.
The Mexicans cheriih their resentments against
Spanish cruelty and oppreflions. Freed from a
yoke so grievous and intolerable, they would em
brace with open arms the friend/hip and protec-
tion of a nation wliofe communication with them
would be tempered with humanity.
J here is a Spanish Count now in London, a
Mexican by birth, who has frequent interviews
with the Minister. He has been ill treated by
Liis own court, and lia3 taken refuge in this coun
try, as an al'ylum against fur'her persecution.
He is a man of letters and talents, and is well
able to give the belt information concerning the
present (late of th« Spaniih American Colonies.
Complainti have been daily nlade for some time
part, of the secrecy of government in all its dif
ferent departments. It surely cannot be well
founded, tor immediately upon the return of che
fleet, we had the order of battle and of failing
displayed in a morning paper, for the benefit of
—our enemies.
The fire fiiips for the grand naval armament
have barrels well supplied ; there is in each bar
rel about T2olb of corned powder, 6jlb. of pitch,
Tolb. of tallow, 401b. of sulphur, jolb. of laltpe-
tre, 61b. of rosin, and three pints of oil.
The combined fleets of Francc and Spain, if a
conjunction has been formed, as is generally flip
pofed, consists of fifty fail of che line, fourteen
French, and thirty-fix Spanifh r besides frigates.
Lord Howe takes with him forty ihips of the line
from Portsmouth, and ten from Plymouth ; so
that every man will only have his bird, if a meet
ing take 3 place, and a tolerable light ineal it will
be ; forfo excellently a conditioned fleet., in point
oi officers, men and (hips, never left England.
Mrs. Fitzherbert with a large party, honoured
Portsmouth with a visit on Tburfdaylaft, and din
ed the next day on board the Colofius, off a very
fine turtle, after taking a view of the fleet, at
which fheexprefled great admiration.
Oft. IJ. By a gentleman who arrived from
Paris 011 Monday night last, we are informed,that
the marine aflicers of that kingdom, in a body,
have refuted acfting in cafe of a war with England.
This refafal is generally known to arise from an
idea, that such a circumstance would be favorable
to counter revolution.
In a church a few miles from town, when the
Parson was repeating that parroftheLitany which
offers up prayers " for all those who travel by
land or by water," &c.—the Clerk suddenly ex
claimed, " except my wife, who eloped frotu
me two days ago."
Mr. Shaw, the King's messenger, was suddenly
dispatched by the Engliili ambaflador at Paris,on
Tuesday night at twelve o'clock, and he readied
London about iliefame hour on Thursday night,
after having been detained some time at Bou
logne. On his arrival there,in order to use the ut
molt expedition, he hired an Enghih Packet, in
preference to two others belonging to that port .
but 110 sooner was he on shipboard, than he was
accosted by upwards of two hundred PoWardes,
who obliged him to disembark, and to pay full
freight to the French Packet, which was firft in
turn for failing.
From the firft opening of the dispatches whicU
were brought by this mellenger from Paris, ic
may have been observed, that frefh vigor has
been added to all the warlike preparations and
proceedings ; council after council has been held :
atthe breaking up of the last, 011 Saturday morn
ing at two o'clock, Mr. Shaw, the mellenger from
Paris, was instantly dispatched for Madrid,charg
ed with letters of recall to Mr. Fitzherbert, our
Amball'ador there.
At the fame time, Morley, the King's messen
ger from Paris, was dispatched to our ambaflador
at the Hague ; and Bafilico, the King's messenger
was also dispatched to our ambaflador at Berlin :
for what purposes, may be easily surmised, espe
cially as it is now well known, that,
Lord Howe set off for Portsmouth immediately
after the breaking up of the firft council which
was held on the dipatc'nes from Paris :
That fix new regiments have been determined
>onfince Thursday last 1That an augmentation of ten men and a ser
geant are ordered in addition to every company
of the foot guards :
That the firft bartalion of each of the three re
giments of foot guards are ordered to hold them
selves in readiness for immediate embarkation-;,
which is a measure never adopted but in cases of
the utmost apprehension, or of an acftual foreign
war : And,
That several thousand (lands of arms have been
removed from the Tower, and feiu to Portsmouth,
to be put on board the frigates ordered for tranl
porting itores and troops to the Weft-Indies.
War is the prevalent opinion amongst nil rank 9
of men. There are those, we know, who antici
pate a different ifiue : upon what grounds, they |
themselves will find it diiftcult to ltate. If people
mqy be allowed to judge from what they fee and
know, war is inevitable. .
Our watchful ally of Prussia has for once foiled
*We intriguing Empvefs. Her fcliemes are no
doubt deranged by the refufal of the Turks to
fUJcede to her felfiia terms of accommodation. If
(he perseveres in her present policy, she may in
volve herfelf deeper in hostilities than her re
sources will support.
Admiral Earl Howe and the officers of his fleet,
are getting their live and other stock on board,
previous to failing, which will take place the
latter end of this Vveek—his Lordlhip is indefati
gable'in forwarding every preparation for that
event.
Tlie troops intended for immediate embarkati
on including those to be shipped from Ireland,
will amount to 6000 men, and these confilt of
l'ome of the ablest veterans of the English army.
News was on Friday received from the Eaft-ln
dies, that Tippoo Saib had approached very near
to Madras with animmenfe army, and had com -
mitted great outrages. It is added, that Lord
Cornwallis had fuperceded the whole of the coun
cil, and ordered them home.
Authentic accounts from Warsaw, dated the
22d ult. mention a decisive engagement having
taken place between the Ruffian and Turkilh
fleets, near Tendroo and Codgia Bay, on the 9th
preceding, after an obstinate fight of fix hours ;
at the end of which the Turks fied, leaving the
Ruffians maftersof the sea.
The Capitania, of 74 guns, commanded by the
Captain Pacha, was blown up, with most of her
crew, but the Captain saved.
The Vice-Admiral Seld Bey, a Pacha of Three
Tails, was taken in a (hip of 66 guns and 600 men,
together with a frigate having 200 men on board.
As loon as Prince Potemkin heard of the victo
ry, he left Akiermjui, for the purpose of reward
ing thofewlioie deferred it.
The greatest difficulty in the way of a peace
between-Ruflia and the Porte is, that the former
wilhesto conclude it without the mediation ofany
other courts, which condition the Porte refufes to
accede to.
Paper monej is the last resource of an expir
ing Government—and France seems by the adop
tion of this mode to be pretty near the exit of
her new Agrarian system. Poor James the lid.
■when he wanted to alter the British constitution,
circulated leather money, but he and his tanned cajh
■were soon expelled the kingdom.
The monied men of France knowing the in
stability of so extraordinary aconftiturion as that
now attempting by the National Aflembly, have
transported to-foreign banks the greatest part of
the current ca<h of the kingdom, or hid it under
ground in their own country, until they fee the
full event of the late rebellion.
A duel was last week fought in Paris between
M. Bazancourt, brother to one of M. de Fayette's
Aid de Camps, and Count de Bantemine, in which
the former was killed on the spot. He was ma
jor of a regiment of the National Guards. The
cause was a political dispute.
By the Spanish papers it appears, that the war
with Spain, it the year 1761, did not commence
till after a tedious negociation for 6 months,
when France took the liberty to interfere in the
difcuifions between Great-Britain and that Court.
Ofi. 16. There was a considerable alarm up
on the stock-exchange yesterday, owing to a re
port very industriously circulated, of unfavorable
news from India; and it was confidently aflerted,
thatTippoo had totally defeated the Britifli army
in the Carnatic: but upon the fulleft enquiry, we
can aflure our readers, that there is not any
foundation for the report; and that the real fadt
is as follows :—Tippoo has been for some months
before the lines of Travail core, and the last ac
counts from India stated, that there could be no
doubt of his carrying them, as they were many
miles in extent, which he has at length effected,
and has taken an inconsiderable fortrefs, called
Crongora, in the dominions of the Rajah of Tra
vancore ; but there was not a single Britifli sol
dier opposed to him.—The event is no further of
consequence, than that it makes the war between
the English and Tippoo inevitable ; and the ac
count further dates, that a very considerable Bri
tifli army was on its march from-the Carnatic to
Serengapatam, the capital of Mysore, which ratiil
draw lippoo immediately to the defence of his
own dominions. Colonel Hartley, of the Bombay
eltabliihment, was also arrived at the head o a
considerable force in the neighbourhood ot I ei
licherry, on the Malabar coast, and the Bengal
detachment wasinfull march to join the Nizam;
so that there can be little doubt of our receiving
intelligence of the utmost importance, as loon as
these separate armies lhall have reached -the
scenes of acftion. The account of Tippoo s suc
cess before the Travancore lines, came to St. He
lena in the London Eaft-Indiaman, and was traiil
mitted from thence by a vefi'el employed in the
Whale Fiihery, which arrived yelterday morning.
They write from New-York, that Spanilh dol
lars are more plentiful in that city, than at any
formerperiod. One Spaiulh vefiel openly land
ed 50,000, and- lodged them in a merchant s
hands, who is well known to have a political, as
well at a pecuniary disposition. But whether
these dollars are to buy goods, to buy friendfhips
or to buy votes, is not so eaftly determined.
PORTSMOUTH, 0«a. 13.
This forenoon a King's MeflTenger arrived here
with dispatches for Admiral Earl Howe, which
he carried on, board the Queen Charlotte at
Spithead ; and it has beenlince reported, that a
reconciliation has taken place between the
Courts of England and Spain.
This morning; about three hundred Marines
were diaughted from the divilion here, and ftiip
ped on board the fleet at Spithead.
PLYMOUTH, Odt. 9.
This morning a Spaniard, callinghimfelf Jose
Seljnk, was apprehended by two boatmen, on
fofpicion of being a Spy : He was carried before
Admiral Grtavei, who ferit Jiim to the Mayor of
this town for examination.
His papers being examined,it appeared he came
from London on the firft ofOxftober, and went
to Oxford, Bath, Bristol, and Exeter, and from
thence to Plymo»th, and wished to go to Fal
mouth.
He was anxiousto know how many (hips were
here ; wished to Tjew the Dock, Magazine, &c.
He seems an intelligent man, and had many
shrewd remarks i» his journal, which was written
in French.
Qci. 10. Jose Seylink, the Spaniard, has un
dergone another examination—but nothing ma
terial has yet come out against him. He fays he
came hither to view the arsenal, fleet, citadel,
magazines, &c. as he had at Portsmouth. He
said he was un Citoyen du Monde ; that his pafl
port was L'Argent (shewing some silver) and that
his companions were his books. On being ques
tioned why he came by way ps Oxford, &c. he
("aid, id ■££; tb* i*«atr;-, rnt l K " caw? »»?re
Togo to Falmouth to embarkfor Lilbon—faid he
knewnone of his own nation in London—that he
wilhed not to be recognized by them, and that he
was a man of no note in his own country.
He has a good map of the coast with him : but
persists that he had no other objetft but curiosity ;
to gratify his wish to know the manners and cus
toms of England.
It isfomewliat remarl'able, that lie was averse
towritetothe Spanilh Ambaflador, in London,
which occasions a conjecture that he is not a Spa
niard, but a Frenchman.
GEN EVA, Sept. i
By letters we learn, the sudden conversion of
the Great and Little Council, to the principles of
republican government, they are on the point of
proposing a plan of restoring to the people all
thole rights which deflroy usurpation. They are
indebted to the patriotic writings ofM. Grenus
for this conversion.
PARIS, Oft. 3
M. Deinouftier late minister plenipotentiary
to the United States of America, appointed to the
Court of Berlin, had the honor of returning
thanks to his Majesty. He was introduced by
Mons. Montmorin, Minister and Secretary of
State for the foreign departments.
The Trcnch King's intendidflight to Rfucn,
THE following is a translation of an official letter received from
Rouen by the committee of enquiry of the National Assembly.
" The Kin J is determined at lad to come and live at Rouen ;
he has yielded to the tarneft entreaties of her Majesty, whole mind
has been filled with terror by the Duke of Villequicr. This no
bleman has pervaded the Quee.i, that his Majesty would be de
throned if he d:d not fly from the capital, and that the inhabitants
of Rouen, gained by the Dutchefs of Villerov, who has been very
a£live these ten months to form 3 considerable party, would an
(wer on their heads for the fucccfs of a counter revolution, i£the
King would but consent to come to Rouen, or fuller himfelt to be
removed thither.
" The principal agent of this fnrprifing and unaccountable wo
man, is M. Portier, Direttior of the farms at Rouen ; it is he who
has engrofled the fix hundred signatures that have been presented
lo the King by the Duke of Villequicr ; it is he who is the no
blemen, who has sworn to form amongst them a flying camp, to
equip themfclves at their own expence, and to defend their mo
narch tothelaft drop of their blood.
" There exists likewise another confederacy between them and
the chicls of the National guard of Rouen. The moment the
King shall appear in the midst of the troops, the Parliament of
this town are to take their fears, fix the price of bread at one sol
(halfpenny) per pound, and order thetnoft refractory to be hung.
The King is to hold a bed of justice, wherein he will annul all the
National Afiembly's decrees. An edi£l in the form of a mani
fefti, will order the provinces to fend new members to the States
General, who arc to fubferrbe to the declaration of the 23d of
June. The Dutchefs, in her viliis at Dieppe, ala Meilleria and
-666
st Havre, has procured many valuablefrienSs. They fay fliecin
command ten millions of Uvres to defray the King's expences :
(he has likewise monopolized all the corn neceffar? to keep thfc
bread for fix whole months at so low a price as a sol per pound.
She is the foul of the plan, and keepsja correspondence, in cypher,
with the Duke, her brother. Portier, and I.e Fieq, a phylician,
do all they can to enlist the mal-cont; nts. I unluckily have been
of the number. Piqued at fume of the National AH-mbly'sde
crecs, that deprived me of part of my fortune, and of some ma»
nor-ri»hts, I entered the lilt : Wit my conscience looking with
ri»rror° at a couuter-revolution, that coimot be brought about but
by the effufion of so much blood, I facrifice my haired of some of
the operations of the alfembly, for the fake of preventing, if it it
in my power, 4 new conflagration.
" All the writings again.l the Artembly come here addrellea
to Portier. who takes care to distribute them to foreign powers,
in order to'cxcitc them to defend the nobility, The chief con- •
fpirators names are, MefTrs. Portier, Le Picq, Mauduit, del*'
Houlfr, and Ferret du Havre ; and the ladles, Mortonville, and
Fouquct. Mauduit cairses the dispatches to and from Paris, un
der I he name of La Bourdonnaye.
" P. S. Since the writing of the above, new manee»vres have
been discovered. The Chevalier de Belbauf set out this morning
for Paris with several packets addressed to the Archbishop of
Touloufe,'to the Abbe Maury, and to Mcffrs. Bcrgalfc and Caza
les who are the pivots of the conspiracy. H • carries likewise an
addrefito his (t&uui the Qratorie of Rouen,
wbo ioviied hiWlfreihw! Wfter, tod »«j»y tbelov* of: his fiibjefty
The Chevalier bss his diipatchec in the banels of hft piftoli, awl '
the linings of his coat."
United States.
PITTSBURG, Nov. if.
It is with crreat plealure we can inform our
readers, thatlhe furnace lately erected by Wil
liam Turnbull and Co. this fide the Alleghany
mountains, on Jacobs-Creek, about 15 miles above
the Youghiogeny river, began her blast the lit
inft. and that the metal proves to be of a superior
quality both for cartings and bar-iron, the latter
being tried in their forge the fame day ; a cir
cumstance very interesting to the good people of
this western country, and cannot but be highly
agreeable to every well-wiflier of our own ma
nufactures.
Last Sunday a company of recruits, raised in
the Hate of Maryland, marched into town under
the command of Lieut. M'Pherfon.
PORTSMOUH, Nov. 20.
For the encouragemeet of our country brethern, wc mention
the following uncommon instance of Fertility : In the town of
Wolfborough, upon Mr. Cabot's farm, were produced the piefent
season from a Turnip-Yard, which by accurate ineafure was rather
lefsthan half an acre, four hundred and eighty-five bulhels of Tur
nips of an excellent quality !
BOSTON, Nov. 24.
A truly laughable threat, from a wife Nova-Sco
tia Ikipper of a little fifliing veflel, who brought
his fiflt to this market lately for sale. This great
and mighty CAITAIN, finding a little more dif
ficulty in entering his fifii than he had expedted,
suddenly, swelling with over boiling resentment,
excljnned, " If every tfova-Scotiaman wis oi my
opinion, they would let you all Jlarve before they
brought another fifh to this port! !! " The ad
ventures of every day feeuito contradict the Pro
verb, " That there is nothing new under the fun.'''
SATIRE, whendire&ed to the right end, and
governed by the maxims of prudence, is a molt
effectual weapon against folly and vice. one
can doubt the truth of this aflertion, wfib has
read the writings of the celebrated Mr. Addison.
That amiable author, by his periodical Eflayi,'
published in the Spe<ftator, Tatler, and Guardian,
fairly laughed the English out of many of their
Angularities, foibles, faults and crimes, without
paining or offending them. While Swift was
wafting one of the fineft geniuses ever bestowed
upon any of the sons of Adam, in the description
of dirty trifles, or what was worse, in plaguing
and souring the world by his malicious sarcasms :
Addifon wasfemployed in the friendly office of re*
forming them by his inimitable humour. Proba
bly 110 other writer, ancient or modern, ev/er did
lo much towards refining mankind. His works
deserve a place in every library, whether public
or private, and ought to be attentively perused by
all, who make prete'nfions to learning or taste,
" There is not any virtue to which providence
has not annexed a secret fatisfa<ftion But "to
do good, and to communicate"—to lellen the in
evitable evils which assail the children of misfor
tune, afford the nioft superior sensations of plea
sure, of which the human mind is fufceptiljle.—
At this season of the year, the hand of benefi
cence should be extended with encreafed liber
ality—for with the return of the season, the
wants and expeditions nf the sons and daughters
of afßiition return :—Happy are those, who by
the favor of Heaveu are made the almoners of
providence to the poor—on such {hall come " the
blcffings of many who are ready to perish."
PRICE CURRENT.—-PUBLIC SECURITIES.
PHILADELPHIA.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents ■ 14f m pr. /
3 P r - Cents 7/5 7/6.
Dcfered 6 pr. Cents 6/6.
UNFUNDED DEBT'.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 12fy—iqf.is
Indents 7/6.
State debts 8/9.
EXTRACTS,
or 70 pr. cent.
or do.
3 do,
64 do.
37$ do -
42 da.CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
MONDAY last being the day appointed for the. meeting of the
national legislature,in this city,now the feat of government of
the United States, thirtv-onc members of the house of rpprefent
atives afTembled in the hall, in Chefnut-Strcet, which number not
being fufficient to constitute a quorum, they adjourned to yester
day, 11 o'clock, A. M.
Fifteen members of the Senate also assembled iu the Senate
chamber ; viz.
Members OF THE SENATE
His Excellency The VICE PRESIDENT*
Hon. Meflrs Langdon, Hon. Messrs Morris,
Wingate, Maclay,
Daltrtn, Izard,
Ellsworth, Butler,
King, Hawkins,
John 0 on, Basset.
Dtckinfori, M un toe,
Few,
1
Members prcjmt. of the House cf win
The Hon. The SPEAKER.
Hon. MefTrs Ames, Hon. Mc flirt Lawrance,
Benfon, Lee,
Baldwin, L ; .vcrmore #
Blood worth, Madison,
Boudinot. P. Muhlenberg.
Brown, * Schureman,
CadwalUdef, Seney,
Clymer, Sherman,
Fitzfimons, Smith, (S. C.)
Floyd, Sturges,
Foster* Sylvester,
Gilman, '• batcher,
Goodhue, Williamfon,
Griflin, Wynkoop.
U tiger,
Huntington.
iTUESDAY, Dec. 7.
Hon. Mr. Scot, and Mr. Hcijicr, appeared and
took tbeir feats.
an<
✓Hon. W. B. Gila, Member from Virginia, eleft
fd to fupplythe vacancy occasioned by the death
jbf the Hon. T. Bland, appeared, produced his
(credentials, was qualified, and took his feat.
r The House being formed—
On motion of Mr. Boudinot, the Clerk was di
rected to inform the Senate, that a quorum of the
House being now aflembled, they are ready to
proceed to business.
A meHage was received from the Senate, by
their Secretary Mr. Otis, informing the House
that a number fufficient to constitute a quorum of
the Senate, being aflembled in the Senate Cham
ber, they are ready to receive communications
■from the honorable House.
■ A committee was appointed, conlifti jig ofMefl'rs
BoudinotfLaviraiiceandSmith, (S.C.)to joina com
tiiittee of the Senate, to wait on the President
of theUnitedStates,and inform him that a quorum
ofbothKoufes are now aflembled—a meflage
fcnt to iHo Scns'.e, by tfce- C'lcrk, (to infoim
them of the above vote.
A meflage was received from the Senate in
forming the House that they have appointed a
committe confiding of the Hon. Mr. Morris, and
the Hon. Mr. JLangdon, to join a committee of
the Hon. House, to wait 011 the President of the
United States, and inform him that a quorum of
bothHoufes being aflembled, they will be ready
in the Senate Chamber to receive fuchcommuni
cations as he may be pleased to make.
A motion was made by Mr. Liverwort, that the
Jloufe should concur with the Senate ; this being
objected to, the motion was withdrawn.
The House then non-concurred that part of the
Senate's meflage which afligned the place of re
ceiving the President—and the Clerk was diredt
ed to inform the Senate of the fame.
After which a meflage was received from the
Senate, informing, that they concur in the vote
of the House—and the committee proceeded to
wait on the President.
Mr. Laivrancs
tions which were
The petition of Jacob^Sapl.
of Francis Ackley. V
Mn. Fitzflmoru Several petitions and
of Alexandf which were read
jontl laid on the tables
Boudinot, of the joint Tommittee on the
fftirt of the House, reported that they had waited
on the President of the United States, and deli
vered the message of both Houses.
The President informed the committee that
he would meet the two Houses in the Senate
to-morrow 12 o'clock. Adjourned.
Philadelphia, Dec. 8.
/ Yffterday there was a Levee at the house of THE PRESIDENT
(•f the United States—at which were present His Excellency The
Vice-President, and many Members of both Houfcs of Con
erefs fevtral of the Heads of Depaitments, besides a number of
refpeQable private charaQers. Ignatius Palyart, Esq.
Consul General from Her Mod Faithful Majtfty, the Qui en of
Portugal, was presented (atthe Levee) to The Pkes:dent
•f the United States, by the Hon. Thomas Je itt rson, Secretaiy
•f State. , .
THERE is a report that the forces tinder the
command of General Harmar, have received
a check from the Indians ; but as the acci
dent is said to have happened forty days ago,
and no official information has been received by
Supreme Executive, it may be presumed that
It.lie account is premature.
!the following peti
laid on the table, viz.
, of John Lewis, and
ifentei
This day purcliafes of Public Securities will be
made by the Secratary of the Treasury, at 'his
Ortice in ChcfnutrStreet.
4 c
Extract of a letter from Pittfbirg, dated Nov. 18
" We have tliisday had intelligence by a half
blooded Indian, who is come in from the Indian
country, that general Harmar has taken the Mia
mi town without resistance.
" The person who brings this account left De
troit the 23d of Otfiober. He fays the Indians
attacked the army two or three times on their
march, but were always repulsed with
Ext ran of a letter J ram a member of Congrcfs, now
at JVew-Tori, to his friend in this city dated De
cember 2.
" Mr. S ■, has this moment-received letters
from England of the iyth of Ocftober, and from
the hostile movements there, the alliances form
ed in Europe, and the Hidden departure of a
number of (hips of war and transports for the
Weft Indies, war seems inevitable. I give you
this information because it maybe relied on."
Sometneie are, observes acorrefppudent, who shake their heads
with solemn motion, and pretend to wonder what can be ths rea- ,
son of the new settlements on the MiJJijippi, and adjacent to (he Nat
chez. This is a " wilderness,** they fay, ftiirounded with fava
gcs and the scalping knife »»d >f a people are bent on making
new settlements, let them fettle " in the moll cultivated parts of
the United States ; and the curie will not be diminilhed by en
countering nature in her moll rugged form." What can such men
design !—What do their grave obfervattons amount to, but this,
" that man, absolutely regardless of his own happiness and wel
fare, Ihould resign himfelf, with ferenfi flupidity, to the tender mer
cies of every wealthy lord and mailer, who chooses to command
him ?" Thefc men imagine they perform all the offices oJUJe, if they
endeavour to add to their present wealth, power and credit, without
any fort of refpett or teodernefs for the " mass" of that society,
under the protection whereof they live, who if they can make any
immediate advantage to theinfelves, in railing the value ot their own
property," in the cultivated parts of the United States," spare no
language or effoits to depreciate the moll promifiug settlements
of other places.
Let not, however, the dreary description they present us, dis
courage the flattering profpe&s of the adventurers on the Miffifip
pi. Let it be remembered that this placc itfelf, this'emporium of
America, now shinning with all the arts and customs of polifhcd
life, was once a wilderness, inhofpitablelike the defarts by the Mif
lifippi. Rather let these friends to mankind fed happy on the
occasion in being the means of forming a fettlemcnt, where the
people may live free as nature, which is before them, where every
sensation, favourable to happiness, may be indulged, and where
there is nothing to remind them of the tyranny of man !
(Independent Gazetteer.)
ToobP rveaprogrefs in ourarts and manufattures mud give plea- 1
fare to every American. Musical instrument making is now carri
cd to great perfection in this city. An ingenious artiil has lately
turned out ot his hands several forte pianos, in point of workman
ship, nothing inferior to the imported. Independent of the en
couragement which everv American would naturally be inclined
to give to home manufa&ures, these, inftruinrnts, on another ac
count, claim a decided preference. The wood which enters into
the composition of imported instruments, seasoned in London
will not iland this Climate. It is well known, that the air of that
capital is more moifl than ours ; then of course the imported in
ftrumentwill crack and split when once affe&ed by our drier air.
A; *.««. reafv' b.k «<■ irtty.*rlti3 forte
piartos They aie k£f-t wifntovlnng but glue. Scr..**
are also abColutely neceflary, that they may stand the I'udden chan
ges here from drought to humidity .and back again.
Experience, corroborates this : Imported forte-pianos
require frequent repairs and in a f«w years are unfit to use.
These objections aje removed by the carc our artist takes in fea
fonitighis wood, and in itrengthening every part of his work with
iubftantial iron screws.
The large emiflion of paper money voted by
the National Aflembly of France, and the tumult
that accompanied the decree, seemed to forbode
confufion. The latelt Engfilh arrivals however,
dispel our fears ; the Aflembly has been with more
calmness deliberating on the fubjetfl of taxes ; the
storm that feeined immediately to threaten the
Nation, has blown over, and things leem to have
resumed a more quiet appearance. G. Adv.
In taking a view of the present situation of the United States,
there is no idea more forcibly impreflfcd on the mind, than the
peace and tranquility which prevail under the auspices of the ge
neral government : The inferences which naturally result from
this confederation are highly complimentary to the public admi-
niftration of our affairs—With one solitary exception only, not a
whisper of disapprobation has been heard—and this is so confcf
fedly local and partial,-that it can hardly be supposed to have the
smallest influence -jut of the limits ofthe State where it originated,
and even there, it is to be presumed, that a deep impression of the
importance of prcferving the harmony of the States, will forcibly
operate to prevent the smallest schism in the sacred bond of Union.
What then remains, but that our civil fathers (hould proceed with
confidence in perfecting the great work they have so ably begun ?
The prtfent feflion commences under the most favorable circum
ftauces ; the public approbation of men and measures has been fu
generally exemplified in the recent elections, that we may justly
expect, that energy, independen ■ and dispatch, in the public bu
siness, which past success ? d pub: . nfidence inspire.
Civil government is the Sift gift of Heaven to man—lt is the
only fafeguard.of liberty—that form which Heaven has bestowed
on the people of the United States, appears the most conducive to
this great objefl, because it provides for an equal and jufl r:pi e
frntation of the various interests of all : Had the representation
been comprized in one branch, it may well be doubted whether
j the public business would have been conduOed with that dispatch,
01 been so cordially accepted by the people as it has been—the de
cisions of a majority of one body, can r.cver be supposed to fprak
the sense ofthe people so fully as lhat of <r«fl-for the oppofitioi,
in opinion which frequently occurs between the two branches,
and that mutual jealousy which 's always difcernable, plainly
prove that an imereft always exists among the people, which
cannot be recognized anrl hav: justice done t« it, in a frngle affem-
667
The liberty of the Press, with some persons,
means only a right to abuse, and render odious ,
public charaiflers ; others fappofe it ronfifts in
an exclulive propogation and defence of their par
ticular ftntiments.
The abuse of public chara&ers, however, as
such, while they enjoy the public confidence, is a
gi ols inlult on the nujelty of the people : Men
in private life julUy consider their reputation as
an invaluable jewel—ami the laws have provided
a sacred barrier for its defence : In the eye of the
law. every man is fuppoi'ed to be innocent, who
is not impeached of a crime—and peifonal at
tacks on private fame excites the honell indigna
tion of every good citizen—lt is therefore pre
pofterons in the highelt degree to call that liberty,
which fubjecfis those charaOtes to indifcriminatc
obloquy, wljom the people, for real or fuppoi'ed
qualifications, have (elected as the guardians of
theirrights, and the sdminiitrators of their laws
—it is converting a blelfing into a curse with a
vengeance;, to attempt to render those ridiculous
whom found policy would lead us to refpett and
honor : Measures and not men are the proper
fubje<sls of to a free press ; butthepar
tifans of discord are generally so imcompetent to
an investigation of public tranfatftions, that they
find it much easier* to excite attention by having
recourse to flandef and detraction, than by ana
lyzing and pointing out the defedls of govern
ment : That species of freedom which some per
sons are clamorous to fee exercised by the Press,
which anathematizes all who prefumeto think for
themselves, in oppolition to the demagogues of the
hour, is in reality nothing less than impudent
intolerance—" that turkish policy that will bear
no brother near the throne."—From such defini
tions of a free press, may the enlightened citi
zens of this free republic ever turn with abhor
rence—" the collision of sentiment is the parent
of light and truth"—and while our prefles are
really free, every decent proportion will have a.
candid consideration—every friend t* the happi
ness and liberties of the United States will boldly
offer his opinions, and the public will give them
w.eight in proportion to their intrinsic merit aud
importance.
LATEST ARRIVALS AT PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Minerva, Weft, Ruflia, 117 days.
, Boys, Lilbon, 42
Philadelphia, Strong, ,
Charleston, German, Charleston, 17
Sloop New-York Packet, Holden, [N. Y.] 4
Lively, , St. Auftatia, 30.
Postscript.
BY THE MAIL ARRIVED I. AST EVENING
PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 8.
Latest INTELLIGENCE from SPA If
BOSTON, NOV.;*},'
Negociation still and that o
jrcat-Britain, of the think, and talk vari
rioufly. If we are to of both parties,ar
immediate WAR seems inevitable : In each they are arming with
the ulmoft vigour and activity ; particularly since the National
AflemMy of' France hath ordered, that 45 fail of the line, befidei
frigates, be immediately got readyto aflift Spain, in cafe of a War.
The squadron which returned into this port the Bth tnft. is get,
ting ready with all expedition, to proceed to sea— And every Jkip
in the Spanijh navy is ordered ir.to commiflion--and we working oil
them without intermiflion, even on Sunday.
" Hoftiltties have taken place between us and the Emperor of
Morocco. Two cruizers of the latter have been brought into this
port, within these few days, and two or three others have been
carried into neighbouring pbrts. The Moors are preparing to at
tack Ceuto, where theie is a garrison of 12,000 men. Indeed it
; s expected they will assail all the citiej belonging to Spam oa the
African Coast."
THE following intelligence
from one of the molt x<
in Spain, to a gentleman w
HIBERNIAN SOCIETY.
AN adjourned meeting of the Hibernian Society, for the relief
of Emigrants from Ireland, will be held jit Mr. Patrick Byrne's
Tavern, in Front-Street, on Monday next, the 13th inft. at
fix o'clock in the evening, when a Trefident, Vicc-JVefident, Se
cretary, Treasurer, two Counsellors, and two Physicians, ate to
be chosen.
At this meeting, the folllowing proportion is to be debated
" All fumsof money, paid by any person at the time of his be
coming a member—all sums paid in lieu of the yearly dues—and
all the donations made to the Society, shall, from time to time, be
veiled in some public stock, in the'name of the President for the
time being—who (hall, as occasion may require, transfer the fame
to his successor. And the said stock (hall at all times be confiaer
ed as the capital of this lociety : Th» principal of which (ball ne
ver be made ufc of, 01 drawn upon for any purpose whatsoever.
Signed by Order,
MATTHEW CAREY, Src'ry.
$TsKk gnl/enitat iift* titKonc number s of this humane inflt
tution, are rejnefled to gwe in Unit ntmes at any time prevtvnl It the
meeting, to any of the mnbers tij the ftciety.
By Thomas Lang,
No. 21, Church-Alley,
And fold by Travcis Bailey, Joseph Crukshank, Wxi
i,uu FriCHArd, and Rice and Co. in Market-Street ; ana
by Thomas Dosson, William Young, and Robert
Campbell, in Sccond-Street, Philadelphia,
Price 12s. 6d. (not half the price oj the London edition)
The Poems of Ossian,
SON OF FINGAL.
Tranllateil by JAMES MACPHERSON, Esa.
This day is published,
THEfor the gazette of the united states.
The Student. —No. I.
BY SIMON SEARCHER.
" \"\/HAT have we here?" cries the-LoutfGEß,
(ashe sips his coffee froin'a half pine porce
laine cup, which rests on its kindred saucer,
placed with a negligent ease between the thumb
and two longelV fingers of that delicate hand
which is raited half way to the lips, horn the po
liced table 011 which the elbow prefles, support
ing the upper extremity of the listless frame.)
" What have we here ? The Student, by Simon
Searcher ! One would rather expect Isttures from
the Profcffor than the Student. Had you not bet
ter, Mr. Searcher, search a little longer before
you commence teacher ?"—This is said with an
air of triumph ; —and with all due modesty I re
ply : Far be it from me Sir, to afl'ume the office
of a Teacher ; my utmost hope is, that by publifh
lifhing my thoughts on the various objects of my
flu dies, I may induce others to refletf upon fucli
fubjetts as will tend to make them both wiser
and better j such fubjeds, only, being worthy
ofa Student's attention. I have experienced
great advantages from the presence of a fellow
Student, to whom I could communicate my senti
ments refpe<fting the author in hand, or his
work : Now Sir, as I find it a difficult matter to
entice a clever fellow to my corner, (that corner
which I hold by ancient charter, granted by the
great King Cuftoin, (a tyrant with whom you are,
110 doubt, acquainted Sir,) to all who follow in
the dance of the nine old Maids called Muses ;
the Poet's Corner, Sir—not in a newspaper, but,
in a garret.) I purpose, by means of a Corner in
the National Gazette, to make companions of all
who will condescend to read the Student, and as
mankind are of such various tastes and opinions,
it will be hard if some few are not found willing
to be acquainted with solitary Simon.
Of all the thousands, that around me flalk,
That ft en to fee—and what is strange, do talk,
I ftiall not grudge my labour or my ink,
If I can add but one to those that think.
<< Think!" cries Lounger, with a molt ex
pressive yawn. "Oh d nit I hate thinking
.—What fignifies one's thinking for one's felf,
•when there is fomany people to think for one ?"
" True" cries Mrs. Lounger, setting her cup
and saucer on the table, " True Mr. Lounger,
I declare it is the mod worryfome thing in
natftiure to think: I had some hopes from the
creaiftiure's beginning, that he might afford some
entertainment ; but I suppose we are to have his
fufty opinions upon mully old books." Hold
Madam ! —I study nature as well as books : I in
tend Madam that every nook and corner where
it is poflible for Dame Nature to hide herfelf, or
any of her ornaments, ihall be rummaged, top
and bottom, behind and before, up and down,
backwards and forwards, in all poflible directions,
that can be thought of by your serious servant
Simon Searcher. Dress and fafhion Madam,
ihall be objects of constant study, and you may
depend upon the earliest intelligence of every
change : I have even now Madam a communica
tion notunworthyyourear —It is a fa<ft Madam—
A facft that may be depended upon, that the la
dies throughout the Britith dominions (whom it
is absolutely necellary to imitate, because they
liave, or affeift, a hearty contempt for us) have
adopted for the winter season, the thin, light
silk bonnet j so Madam it is devoutly to be wifli
ed, as it is reasonably to be expe&ed, that our la
dies will discard the warm Beaver, so preposter
ous at this season. Likewise Madam, jby the la
test accounts from Europe we learn, that the gen
tlemen ot the tort, have universally adopted the
Craw. Further Madam, 1 learn that at a conven
tion afl'embled for the purpose of deliberating
on a federal dress forthe beaumonde of the Uni
ted States—present, Billy Dimple, Jacky Simper,
Peter Frii&c. ire. It was agreed to recommend
to all pretty fellows, the crap: Cujhlon, somewhat
altered, the fide hair being brought down towards
the (honlders, after the model of the wings o a
panting Hen-Turkey in the dog-days. Perhaps
&adam 1 (hall Tat some future period address a
Song to you—the burthen of which (hall be
Sing heads and tails, hats, caps, and other like rigs
With braids, curls, ana fine frizzled wigs, wigs, wigs,
! As my design in wishing for companions is not
'.merely to declare my own opinions, 1 hope those
Vho may be induced to study with me, will favor
me with tlieir's,which {hall be thankfully receiv
ed and acknowledged ; any thing addrelled to
Simon Searcher and conveyed to Mr. Fenno
will reach ine—
Come what will, or come what may,
Whether serious, whether jay,
SIM oNSzA rcH s r fecks for knowledge,
Far beyond the bounds of College.
I expetfl my Eflays vrill be like my Introdu&ory
Number, pretty much of a medley.
Dec. 1790.
FUNERAL CEREMONY.
WE 'have already mentioned some funeral ceremonies at Straf
burg, and in other towns, to the memory of the soldiers
who facniiccd their lives at Nanci, in support oi the revolution.
Similar ceremonies have taken place at Baugency, at Vienne, at
Grenoble, at Rouen, &c. in honor of those departed patriots.
On the 20th instant, this last duty was dilcharged by ihe cm
zens of Paris, on the Champ de la federation. All the 60 battalions,
the Parisian Cava'iTy, the Corps of Veteran *1 toops, the Dauphin's
Company, and the National Guards of the municipalities 111 the
vicinity of Paris, met at 11 o'clock, on the Champ de la federation,
with colours flying and drums beating.
The drums were muffled with black—the colours and standards
were surmounted with crapes, and the trumpets enjbutdine—A
deputation of the Municipality, with the Mayor at the head ol it,
elconcd by the Guard of the' Hotel dc Ville, also aflifted at the
ceremony. Another frotn the National Affcmbly wasalfo pre
fect, at the joint invitation of the regular troops, and of the Nati
onal Guards, and occupied the firft rowsjof ieatsunder the gallery,
oppofitc to'the Military School.
Three hundred ihoufand persons witnessed the solemn ceremo
ny, in awful silence Mat's was celebrated by M. St. Martin.
Afterwards, the Deputies of ihe National AlTcmbly approached
the altar, which was placed at ihe foot the Maufoleu m, sur
rounded with cyprrfs, funeral torches, and the voung men of the
National Guards. They walked round the altar, and sprinkled
the tomb with holy water.
The following mfcriptums were engraved 011 the four fides of
the tomb.
On the fiift, " The manes ot those brave warriors, who died
at Nanci, oil the 3illof Augull, 1790, in defence of the Constitu
tion."
On the second. " Tremble ye enemies of your country, their
example is all powerful."
On the third. " Marble and brass (Hall perish, but their glory,
and the empire of liberty arc eternal."
On the fourth. «• Here had l'worn to be laithlul to the
nation, to the lav, and the kin^."
rhc immcnfc multitudes, penetrated with the moll heartfelt
/rief, quitted the mournful fcenein solemn order, trnpreffed with
an indelible remembrance of the awful cercmony.
BOSTON, Nov. 20.
DONATIONS OF CURIOS iTILS..
WE hear that the Corporation of the College have returned
their thanks to the following among other gentlemen, who have
lately contributed to enrich the Library and Muftum, at Cam
bridge, by their benefactions. i
To John Gakdj ner, Esq. of Pownalborough, for several ad
ditional proofs of his generolity, among which are fix excellent
paintings, finifhed by Baunias y a French painter of eminence, and
reprefen'ing the people of difFerent colour in some of the islands
in the Weft-Indies ; fifteen medals, struck by the celebrated En
glifti artist Pingot, in commemoration of the vi&ories obtained by
the Britiih in the war of 1756, and other important' events ; and
'thirty-two gold, silver, copper and brass medals and coin of dif
ferent kinds.
To Mr. Richard Surcomb Howe, an officer on board the
Columbia in her late voyage, for various articles of drefs,and other
curiofuies brought from the Sandwich I Hands, and North-Weft
Coast of Amcrica.
And to Capt John Pater son, a gentleman in the service of
the honourable the Englifti East-India company, for a very rare
and valuable manuscript in folio, written on vellem in the Persic
charaller, and presented by him to the Library.
A USEFUL HINT TO APOTHECARIES.
FATAL accidents have sometimes happened by mistaking
Cream of Tartar for Tartar Emetic. Would it not be worthy
ot attention to guard against the probability of an evil so horrible
in its consequences ? The error usually arises from a resemblance,
both in name and colour, between these drugs ; altho the one is
an innotent medicine and the other a deadly poison.
I would therefore propofethat some other technical name ftiould
be adopted instead of Tartar Emetic ; and the drug itfelf be dis
guised by colouring it with something that should not sensibly al
ter its qualities, and yet give it a niaoifetylv different appearance.
As our apothecaries may pofllbly be too busy to attend to this
precaution, may it not be worthy the notice of our college of phy
sician*, who may thereby be the means of fomctiaies laving the
jife of a fellow citizen. H,
(Gen. Advertiser.)
Improvements and Additions to Mr. Bowen's
Exhibition of Wax-Work,
HIS Excellency Benjamin Frank!in, Esq. A Philadelph'ian
Beauty. Peace, (.on elegant figure) with her Olive Branch.
Plenty, with wreaths of Flowers, basket of Fruit, &c.
TICKETS r at one quarter dollar, ma y had at Mr.
Jamis Bryson's, No. 4, Third, below Market Street ; where the
exhibition is open from 10 o'clock in the Morning, until 9 every Evening.
N. B. MINIATURE and PORTRAIT PAINTING
done at the fame place, on reasonable terms.
Philadelphia, 061. 30, 1790.
The 'nice cj this paper is 3 dolls, fir. atin. and $d. finale nu-nber.
668
PARIS, Sept.
Ebcnezer Hazard,
At No. liß, in Second Street, between Race and Vine Streets,
BUYS AND SELLS ALL KINDS OF
Public Securities.
N B Persons having Business to Iranfatt at the Public OSccs,
may be affilted, or have their Bufmefs done fur ihem (without (he
trouble and expence of a perlonal attendance) on very moderate
Terms. November 29.
[MPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
TEAS
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c.
Of the fiilt Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street,between Chefuut'and Markei-Sireeis.
John Francis,
Late of New-York, rcfpeitfully informs the public, that he
has opened a
Commodious Boarding
No. 53, Fourth-Street, one door from Rare-Strret,
WHERE Gentlemen may be accommodated with
CiEKTEEL BOARDING AND LODGING,
By the Wed, Month, or Year, and on the molt moderate terms.
Phila. Nov. 20, 1790. [zaw.3m.J
Co L L EGI of PH 1 L AD E L FH I A, DeC. ill, 1790
LAW LECTURES.
THE Hon. Judge WILSON, Professor of Laws in the Col
lege and Academy of Philadelphia, will deliver Ins Intro
duftorv° 111 the public Hall, on VVednefday the 15th of
this Month, at 6 o'Clock in the Evening. Those Gentlemen who
pro pole to attend the Lefturrs are requeUed to fignify their inten
tions soon, that the necelTary Preparation raav be made [or their
accommodation. By Order of the Faculty of the Co/lr^c,
WILLIAM ROGERS, Secretary.
PURSUANT to a Resolve or ast of Congress ot tiio 10th day
of May, 1780, relative to the dcllruftion of Loan-Office Cer
tificates by accident ; notice is hereby given to all whom it mal
concern, that on the 26th of December 1788, the house occupied
by William Haselton, of the Delaware State, took fin and
was contained, in whi' h was lodged a number of
certificates as pr. lilt below, all which were destroyed by the lair!
fire !> Therefore if any person, hath any objection why the said
Certificates (hould not be renewed, agreeable to the ref.ilvis of
Congress, they mnft make thein before the expiration of three
months, from the date hereof.
Invoice oj Loan»OJfice Certificates defiroyed in the house oj W,... Hcjelton >
on the above date.
1788.
Oftobcr 24, 4873 > o f. oo d o l] ars eac h. favor of James
i'i ' tl J,l ) Hasf.lion.
6356 one of '4CO dollars, (
ELIZABETH HASEI.TON,
Adminiftratvix ol
James Haselton, dccafed,
[62 61.1 aw.]
Philadelphia, Nov. 26, 1790.
By Carey, Stewart, and Co
No. a-2, in Front-Stk eet,
THE FIRST AMERICAN EDITION OF THE
DOWAY TRANSLATION OF THE
Vulgate Bible,
Containing 990 Pages in Quarto. (Price Six Dollars.)
(£3" Subscribers arc requested to fend for their Books.
Nov. 29.
This Day is publifhcd 1
By Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22 * Front-Street,
The American Museum,
FOR NOVEMBER, 1790.
CONTENTS.
ORIGINAL ARTICLES.
METEOROLOGICAL observations, made in Philadelphia,
Ot\. 1790. Obfeivations on the weather in do. Medical
Gale. The Temple of Hymen. An-cdote. Fragment. Remarks
on locust trees. A (ketch of the nature and causes of difeafts, ex
plained upon fcitntific principles. Remarks on capital punish
ments. Peter Pennylefs—a fragment—by John Carey. Short
(ketch of the life of dr. Franklin.
pOJE TRy
The Temple of Hymen. Female love forfaken. Song to al>-
sent Laura—By W. P. Carey. « *
SELECTED, 'ARTICLES.
i:ROi't. »
Character of Dr. Franklin. .' Accost of a curious Wild
cheery tree sprouts poisonous to cattle. Description of the falls of
Niagara. Method of checking the progress of fire. Dr. James
Malone's receipt for the cure of a cold. Number of veflels enter
ed at Philadelphia, from March 1735 to March 1736. Remarks
on frugality—by the Rev. Joieph Lathrop* Thoughts on cenfnre,
family disagreements, &c. by fir Win. Keith. EH"«y on the influ
ence of religion in civil society. The origin ofdefpair. Eulogy
on early rising. Reflexions on the cuitom of burying the dead,,
arid the danger of precipitate interment. Influence of death.
Life of Julia, or the penitent daughter* Public virtue to be diftin
, guilhed by public honors : by the kite Gov. Livingfton. Re
marks on beauty and grace. Eflay on good humour. Census ot
t tie inhabitantsof Cbarlefton. Enumeration of the number of peo
ple in different towns of the state of Rhode-Iftand, in 1782 &
Amount of tobacco exported ftom Virginia. Number of people
in Boston. Extract from a masonic difcoui fe. Receipt to make
lan excellent American wine. Remarks on faking pork. New
( method of feeding silk worms. A Georgia planter's method of
j {pending his time. Account of the culture of (ilk in Newhaven,.
; Lonllituticm of New Hamplhiie. Conllitution of Mailachufett.
POETRY.
Address of a lady to her huiband, on his return from a long
abfcnce. Song ; in imitation ot the watry god. To a lady—
carcfiing her children. Elegy to Laura by W. P. Carey. The
hermit: by dr. Beattie. Vcrfcs on the marquis de la Fayette.
Fragment of a poem on the ere&'ron of the works at Dorchester.
Philidia's riddle. Verses, addrefferd to mils M. A. A. Ode,
fungat Bennington, i 6, 1790.
Dr. Price'; Revolution Sermon to be fold by r th 9
Editor—pries if 6-.
Thii day is publijhedy
PROSE
.-■V
•vJ>
< • vr^
- j--, x
-PI
House,