PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FE.VXO, No *69. MARKET-STREET, BETWEEN* SiXQND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 62, of Vol. ll.] Wednesday, December i, 1790.
[THE Observations of General da i*ortail on the
importance of the Union of these States, discover an
intimate acquaintance with the principles oj human na
ture, and those incidents -which affeCt, and en ■which
the happiness and freedom of a country fume times de
fend —conjidering the period at which they were wrote,
they evince the sagacity and penetration of the author,
*nda very fuper'tor under[landing-, in this view they wiU
Mrreft the serious attention tf every friend to our coun-
try
THE following extradl is rendered highly in
teresting at this moment,when a disposition
unfavorable >to an efficient general government has
been recently The paper from which
it is fele&ed, was written, during the Jate war,
by General du Porta il, a French officer in the
service of the United States. Had this country
remained under the old confederation, it is plain
that his «;ouje<ftures and apprehensions would
have been long fine: deplorably rcaltjcd ; and a!tho
a larger portion of energy, than was at that
time contemplated by any among ns, has been
lince infufed, by the people thtmj'elves, into the
National Constitution, an unhappy example has
been lately exhibited of those "efforts to render
the authority of Congress nugatory and its decrees in
effectual," which he predicted. _
" THE happiness and tranquility of the United
States of America (fays this judicious I'rench
jnan) we may fay their very exigence, seems to
depend entirely on their union. Ij that ccc.f:s, we
perceive no longer "what they may become, there is n?
longer any thing to be laid about thein—there is
no longer any plan whatever to be formed.
" VVe must then in every Speculation which
concerns them, suppose the Union, and every pro
jected establishment ought to have in view these
two things—firft to maintain and confulidate the
Union ; secondly, to draw from it all pofiible ad
vantages
" Some fay that by patting many means in tlie
bands of Congress i by giving that body snu.-I.sa- j
thority, it will be tempted, to enterprise
the liberties of the particular states ; anu to i up
port this opinion they go rummaging among the
biftories of individuals and bodies who have at
tained to the subversion of the government and
to the possession of absolute power. But if tiisy
would examine the thing with attention, they
would soon fee, that these pretended examples
are not real ones,becaufe the cases are not liinilar.
For my own part, f#r from believing it poOile
that Congress ihould usurp too much powc-r, I be
lieve it easy to demonstrate with the liigheil evi
dence, that whatever power the confederation
may at firft give Congress, (provided the forma
tion of Congress be the fame) that body can ne
ver preserve during a length of time, that porti
on which will be neceflary for the general good
of the United States. As this is not the place to
difcufsthut matter, 1 will only offer in support of
my opinion, a single reason ; which, however, I
believe will appear fufficient to every man who
knows the human heart and the motives which ac
tuate it.
" I fay that (like what happens to individuals)
each Hate, altho fenlible of the advantage of the
Union, of the necessity of a general government,
and therefore of parting with a portion of their
independence to enjoy the reft in tranquillity,
■will as soon as that Union is firmed, *bat general
government eflablijhtd, be jealous of it, try to elude
its authority, and look upon every ast of that just au
thority, as an attack on its liberty. It will even be
to the ambitious of every state, a sure means of
making their court to their fellow-citizens, and
saining popularity to teach them to chicane the
emand of the general government, and to throw
as much as they can upon theothe>*ftates, ofthat
portion of the common burthens which they ought
to bear.
" There •will then be an effort continued and per
petual of all the [fates to render the authority of Con
gress nugatory, and to render its decree,- tneffeSual,
Now I ast what means has Congress to defend it
- felf againlt this inceflant attack ? If the members
■who compose it were for life, eftablilhed in the
place where they reside, it might be supposed
that there would grow among them a Spirit of
Corps which would oppose that of each state, and
hold it in check. But this is not the cafe, the
members of Congress are only such, transiently,
ihey areftrangers to their place of refidence,fur
rounded with people jealous of them, which
thereforethey cannot seduce. It must also be ob
served, that each of them is after all, only the
Ddegate of a /late, that he is only feut to execute
i s oidcr and follow its views, a departure from
which would fooa occasion his recall ; that he
has, besides his fortune, his faniilj,the ultimate
objedt of his ambition, all his greateil interells
in his Hate, and far from apprehending that he
will not be conducted by these interests, it is to be
reared that he will not be able fufficiently to ltrip
hitnfelf ofthem, it is no be feared that each mem
ber of Congress will never be effectually more
than the Delegate, the Mttn of such or fucha Hate,
and never the Men ofthe United States, c.s never
theless ought to be the cafe for the general good.
" A body composed in such a manner, can
then never have the force and energy which
would be necellary to preserve the authority
which should be given to it ; and it must be ex
pected to fee it day,tilltlie incon
veniences wlr'ch relult from it become considera
ble, and the states thus recalled to found princi
ples by experience, (hall reftoi e things to order,
an operation which mart: be performed from time
to time, so long as the Union shall last.
" There may then be given to Congress, with
out danger, more power ;even than the general
good of the United States might exact, because
the power might be naturally soon rcduced ; but
at least there mull be given to it as much as is ab
folately neceflary to maintain the Union, and to
make each Prate profit equally of its adtant
C.]
iuiwccui.ii jr.uc prone fcjuaiiy ui wuvantages.
TIMBER. W
r> . O Q.O 3 i; rr o
p; , A —, D" 3 o -. 3 E-. -3 r. /n
•> o>M*aiS-""V 3'-
3 s? £ ='-s'" 5" S■© 7.J- 1 tr
i --r! f -I • &
o c/>u> c: —■ <
no - 5 «•"
S 2" •«
ft
<
•c
•c
o
r-1
- 2
o
s
•TI
Cu
o" 1
»
c»
a-
=■
s a
5.
2.
CO
C-I •-*
o F
co a'
S 3*
r- «
" I
c
r. T>
r>
5 §•
c
cn b"
cn 2..
- » "-v
CO .P
Cn
I?
£L
CJ p
►&. - - to
CO O, to t5
- to CO - o o N> on
'n ~ C\
«-» CO *>►£'• —
C> o CTi.'-» 'Or
r 10 " ?
to
CO
to *JC OJ
a. Q H!
a ST
•
REMARKS ON THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE
TT is frequent to hear the word quantity used for rumbn, and in
i. crease for multiply. Thus people fay great quantities offhingles 1
and cattle or horses are ilUrcafed. These phiafes are inaccurate.
Quantity and increase r fer to a thing in bulk ; numher and multiply,
tofepa'raie individuals. A single tree, or horse increases by growth;
but when individuals are added, they are said to multiply. We
fay with propriety quantities of grain, of fait, of timber, because
we speak of articles in bulk, not separable into individual things :
but we should fay, of Jhingles, of slaves, &c. where the
articles arc usually separable. The Irilh frequently mistake in
uling these words. They fa), great quantities of men ; and I have
often heard them use the phrase, a great deal of gentlemen.
There are two mpdern innovations made in our language,
which demand particular notice, bec.vjfe they are found in good
authors. One is the omiflion of the f:gn of the pofieflive cafc ir.
fuchexpreffions, as, " I could not write, on account c/ the Jhip
failing Judienly." It ought to be, on account ot inn flip's failing.
Modern writers, particularly the Scotch, are remarkable ior this
omiflior ; and our Newfpapersare full of such errors. The phiafe
is not English nor sense ; for the s and apostrophe are just as ne
cessary to mark the cafe, as in any other example where two
nouns meet. Writers seem not to know that in our language, we
have a peculiar fort of words called participial nouns,which answer
the purpose both of a participle and a noun in the fame phrase.
Thus, I heard of a man's pojfe/flng a large eflite ; In this phrase,
pojjejmg is a noun, as it refpetls the conftruition with man ; but a
participle as it refpefts the subsequent word ejlate, which it go
verns. This is a phrase or idiom of our language, as well estab
lished as any other; and when a pronoun is used, we never fee
it mistaken. Thus, we always fee it written, " we heard of his
pofTtfling an estate," tho, " we heard of he poffelTing an estate,"
would be just as good Englifli, as " we heard of aan poflefling
it." That these remarks arc well founded, will appear from the
following examples.
657
to
so
C-. Co O. -
c- 00
O O 3-
-J- T*
cr cr o
i« co -
«-i o -O
C- o «-
o o o
:« or
tn Co to- to ►- to
o 10 4-
_ o cr> M » no to o co
Cirf- O o OJ O ~
- co <y> ~ c. ci is , _
a ' a.
O w • • v 3 J" 01
N * »
Dolls. Cts,
Total value, 156,951 11
" For the pol&bility of B's dying before A."
Blacks, z. 170.
" The plaintiif cannot take advantage of thcplet'smounting to
the general iflue." St range's Rep. Vol. l 5.
They would be glad to purchase the advantage of the Bifhop'i
being in such a post.
LordCt arendon's LettertoSirWm.Temfle. Works 46;.
This is good Englilh, *nd the modern omiflion of s is a gross
error.
The other innovation is the change of such phrases as " agreea
ble to notice, the motion was made " previous to this, I re
ceived a letter into, agreeably to notice, frevioufly to this. One
wojild think the awkwaidnefs ol found in the latter phrases would
have prevented the use of them ; but this will not be fufficient to
restrain men, who are unwilling to take the rules of our language
as they find them, and disposed to make rules of their own. The
truth is, it is a rule of onr tongue, as well established as any prin
ciple in it, though grammarians have not generally discovered it,
that adjeflives, pronouns, and relatives may agree with or refer to
whole sentences, or members oj sentences. This is not onlv an idiom,
but one of the mojl frequent, in the language. Thus, the word
that, fometiincs callcd a conjun£tion, ,is always a relative, or ad
jeUive. Thus, when we by that man went, that refers to a fingls
name, man ; but in this phrase, u I heard that he went," that re
fers to the affirmation in the words he went, and agrees wilh it a?
a member of the fentcncc. This is more obvious by changing th •
order of the words, " he went, I heard that ; M sfk the q ieftton,
what did I hear ?he went, that is what I heard. These remark*
hold with refpe& to that in all other situations. In the fame mari
ner, are used agreeable, previous, prior, antecedent, according, &c.
" He wrote, agreeable to promise" or " according to prornife."
What was agreeable to promise ? the affirmation in the words, he
, wrote, or the acl of writing. The adieftive in this cafe refers to
the members of a sentence, a complete detached affirmation, or fatfc
stated ; and the change of the word into an adverb, agreeably to
prov.ife, or accordingly to promise, turns the phrafft into nonsense.
iages. 1 '
THE condac r t of the people of Avignon to ob
tain their liberty, very seriously affeifts our
court. Difgulled with the inutility of negotia
tion to bring back the people to obedicnce, it has
at length determined to solicit the intervention
of different powers. Thebnef which is as follows
his holiness has dispatched to his Nuncio at Paris.
" The maxims of independence, and anuiire
ftrained liberty, propagated by the enemies of
rel'gion, fovereiguty, and public tranquility have
iiiuuccd inhabitants of the town cf Avignon
to commit the most enormous outrages, and to
despise theuil'elves by the most execrable perfidy.
This people, which has lived so many ages under
the mild and liappy dominion of the Holy See,
has been imprudently led away by the bold and
artful practices of I'ome defigniisg persons, who
ainidit tumults and anarchy, have at length pro
duced an open rebellion."
"To prevent all cause of complaint, the Holy
See has in vain displayed its benevolence towards
t'nofe fubjedls, of whose difaffe(ftion it complains,
by occasionally furnifliing them, from its own
sources, with plenty of grain ; by lightening
their expences ; by facilitating the administrati
on of justice, and by inviting them paternally to
make known the defedts andabufeswhich might
have crept into their legislation, in order to their
being reformed.
" All these cases, all these effetfs of condescen
sion of a generous Pontiff, far from exciting any
gratitude, have only served to render these.un
happy men more rebellious, and jniore infolenu.
f Even' day has produced new crimes and new ex.
cefles.
N
J
-a
w
3
~ P-J
3 0'
n
3
•JO ,
~ ?
tt.
V)
n
b
a.
X
0
rs?
a.
i
w
"S. H
? W
tO
1 c
•<
— £
c r
ampj
u
H
uz
o
3
5*
r»
a
&
S
o
to
n»
?"
i?
§-
3-
?
o
g
■H
S»
<—i
X*
r>*
o
u.>
o
5*
CO
f»
~T
hi
N|
NO
o
Ol
C»
cr
c
" After having overturned from the fqundati-'
on, the ancient fyltem of the municipality and
the tribunals, seduced the militia, usurped the
rights of the throne and the altar, insulted the
Holy Father and the ininifters, publiflied writings
injurious to the supreme power, and violated
even with contempt every thing sacred and pro
fane, they have at length attained the aim ofr
their infamous defigns,by imbruing their hands on
the 12th and 13th of June last, in the blood of
their fellow-citizens, by forcing M. Gafloui, Vice
Legate, tojleave the city and territory of Avignon
by pulling down the arms of the reigning pontiff,
their only sovereign, and tumultuoully substitu
ting for them thofeof his moftChriftian Majesty,
whose known equity, religion and refpe<sl for the
Holy See, fully convinces that court, that, far
trom favoring so criminal a procedure, he would
notfufFerit to pass with impunity.
" Such, in a few words is the. account of the
infurreclion of the revolters of Avignon, of which
the cardinal secretary of state, by order of the
Holy. Father, has the honor to inform yon, to the
end, that you would be pleased to communicate
the fame to the court where you reside : and it
is in the full persuasion that it will take a part
suitable to the importance of an event, which i»
the common cause of all sovereigns, and to the
particular friendfhip which it has ever protelled
towards the sacred person of his holineii."
Hkso
[Whole No. 166.]
ROME, July go.LONDON, September *3— 28.
THE Trelawncy Planter, Cape. Mac Donald
failed on the 26th of July from Jamaica, and
in the Gulph of Florida* while in company with
the Louisa, Steele, fell in with a fleet of Spanifli
ships, of which three were regifler ships, under
convoy of two line of battle ships, and three fri
gates. A gun was fired for Cape. Mac Donald to
hoiitout his boat, and come 011 board theSpanifh
Commodore, which he did not comply with, da
ting that his »hip was indifferently manned, and
his boats were leaky : but itjbeing late in the even
ing, he informed the Commodore chat he would
remain in company all night. The Coqimodore
on this sent his own b«at, and Capt. Mac Donald
was carried on baard the Spanish man of war.
As soon a* he came 011 board, he was ordered
into a m oft cruel lpeciesof confinement, praftifed
on board Spanish ships, and«called the Bilboes.
He was stretched along on his back, between two
planks of wood, and a third piece of wood stretch
ed across the chest—his face expi/fed to a vertical
fun, andiii this posture he lay for lixteen hours,
and must have fallen a victim to the torture and
the heat, but for the humanity of some of the
crew, who occaiionally eased his torture, and
gave him room to turn.
During this time, an officer and fifteen men
boarded the Trelawney Planter, and rummaged
the cargo, and overhauled every part ofthefhip.
After they had made their report, he was dimif
fed without any explanation of, or apology for,
this outrage. He found, that tho' every thing
had been put in disorder, nothing had been
carried away. He made regular minutes of
this grols and scandalous infuTt, committed 011
the flag of England, which, on his arrival
in town on Monday last, he transmitted to the
Secretary of State, for the information of his Ma
jelly's Ministers.
1 lie Caprain was yesterday examined by Mr.
'let and a committee of the Privy Council; when
iie confirmed the narrative he had previously
transmitted to the Secretary of State, in every
particular—He was questioned very minutely as
to the course in which he was fleering—the la
titude, and his precise words in answer tothefirft
summons he received to go on board the Spanish
Commodore.
He was ordered to attend the Privy Council
again this morning, and to bring along with hiin
a gentleman, who was hispaflenger, and his firft
mate. Captain Mac Donald is a gentleman of
onimpeached veracity—a Lieutenant in the Roy
al Navy, and who is known and highly refpe&ed
l>y several Admirals in the service.
The public indignation at this insult offered to
the British flag is very great, and may poflibly
caufea very speedy termination to be put to the
iiegociations concerning Nootka Sound. " Are
English seamen, engaged in ths fair commerce of
their country, to be abused in their pcrfons and
property, and the Britifhflag to be insulted with
impunity ?" Is the general exclamation. Ma
ny Naval Gentlemen, however, take a different
view of the affair, and aflert, that the Captain's
refufal to go onboard a Spanish fliip of war, when
required so to do, warranted the treatment which
he experienced, as the request was, in every re
fpe<sl, agreeable to the eftabliflied practice.
Nothing further has transpired respecting the
contents of the dispatches brought by the last
meflenger from Madrid ; but we can assert from
very good authority, that they do not by any
means decide the dispute between the two courts,
indeed, the lilence of the Gazette is futficient,
without any comment on our part.
Government have chartered two large Itore
fhips, which are fitting out at Deptford, and are
to carry guns the fame as in war time ; they are
to carry over the next, convids to Botany Bay, and
to fail before Chriitjnas.
Four Dutch men of War, belongingto Vice Ad
miral Kingfbergen's squadron, which had lately
conic to anchor in theTexel, failed again onThurf
day last ; but their destination is a profound secret.
Accounts are received at the iiland of Jersey,
by boats from St. Maloes, Granville, and Cher
bourg, that 700 sailors were sent last week from
the latter to Breft,tobe put on board French men
of war : 200 men are to be sent from St. Maloes,
this week, and a number from Granville. Tliefe
accounts further fay, seamen are pouring daily
from all quarters to Brelt, where the greatest ex
pedition is making to fit out the (hips ordered by
the nation.
The Cortes, to which the King of Spain propo
fesfubmitting the present critical situation of af
fairs, is a meeting of the Grandees, and high of
ficers of the State. The term Cortes fignifies
Courts.
However improbable it may appear to fonie,
that the Spaniards should treat Capt. M'Donald
as has been represented, the cafe is not new. In
I 739, they cut off the ears of a Capt. Jenkins,
and afterwards repented of it in a long and ruin
ous war with this country.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF FRANCE.
THE afflicfting recital of the dreadful affair at
Nancy, gave rife to many warm eiogiimis 011 the
rondud of M. de Boullie ; and atlaft the follow
ing decree, suggested by M. Mirabeau, was pal
fed * _
" The National Alterably decrees, That the
directory of the department de la Meurthe, and
the Municipalities ofNanci and Luneville, ihall
be thanked for their zeal.
" That tlie National Guards, who accompani
ed M. de Bouiile to Nanci, be thanked to.
the patriotism and civic bravery which they dii
playedin the i e-eitablilhnient of order at Nanct.
«• That M. de Silly /hall be thanked for the
heroic manner which he expoled himfelf.
" That the Nation fhalJ provide for the wi
dows and children ot thole who have nobly ialien
in the execution of the decrees of the National
Aflembly.
" That the General, and the Regular troops
which he commanded, shall be applauded for
having nobly done their duty ; and that thecom
mifiaries appointedfiiall goimn.ediately to Nancj
to take the neceflary steps to maintain peace in
that town, and to obtain exatfi information of
those facts which may insure puni/hment to tin
guilty, of whatever rank."
Sept. 4 The President read aletter of resigna
tion from M. Wecker to the National Affembly,in
wliich he pleads the want of health, and the un
easiness of a wife equally virtuous and dear to
him, as the motives wliich have determined him
to withdraw wholly to the afyluni which he had
quitted to devotn himfelf to the service of the
(tare. The National Aflembly has demanded an
account of" the receipt and expenditure of the
public treasure, from the i ft May, I 789, Co the ift
of May, 1790. " I have," he fays, " brought it
up to the 2lit of July." And he believes it may
be already known if there exists in it any article
of expence by which he maybe liable to blame.
If there fliould, he offers and leaves in guarantee
his haufe ill Paris, his house in the country, and
his property in the Royal Treasury, which has
long amounted to 2,400,00 c livres ; and he re
queils only to draw out 400,000 livres, which the
state of his affairs on leaving Paris renders neces
sary. The remainder he commits to the custody
of the Nation. He concludes his letter in these
words :
" The envy and injuflice which I have experi
enced, suggested to me the idea of the guarantee
which 1 now offer; bat when I compare these with
myconducfi in the adminiiVration of the finances,
I cannot help adding it to the Angularities which
have distinguished my life.
" I have the honor to be, &c.
(Signed) "Necker."
While this letter was reading, a profound fi
lencc prevailed in the Aflembly, and the resigna
tion of M. Neckar was received as a matter per
fectly indifferent.
Sept. 17. M. NourlfTart presented a report of
the committe of Finances, relative to a dreadful
fire which has consumed a great part of the city of
Limoges to aftics. By this unfortunate event,
800 families have loft their all, and are consequent
ly reduced to the lowest ebb of distress. The
Minister of Finances was directed to fend 60,000
livres forthe relief of the fufFerers.
September 18. A petition was read from the Mu
nicipality of Versailles, stating, that, the town of
Versailles was threatened with an armed banditti
of above 2000 men, who hovered in the park of
VersailleS under pretence of hunting, but in f'adt
subsisted by plunder. The Aflembly ordered the
matter to be taken into immediate confederation
by the Committee on Feudal rights and Domains.
A report was made of a very extraordinary na
ture. An order had been given by the executive
power for fitting out at the port of Bred, with
all expedition, the ship Le Ferme. She was ac
cordingly prepared, and on the point of failing
when fiie was, to the surprize of the whole fieet'
flopped the Municipality of Brest, without
their afligning the least reason for this extraordi
nary conduct. How they will excuse this piece
ofQuixotifm it is not easy to conceive.
The Aflembly parted a decree, importing that
it is a fundamental part of the French Constituti
on, that no Municipal or Administrative body
fliall take upon them to oppose the departure of a
ship of war ; and that the King be addrefled to
cause this decree to be publilhed at all the sea
ports of the kingdom.
A report was brought up from the Committee
of finances and Domaines, relative to the com
motions in the park of Versailles, and a decree
was palled in substance, That the Municipality
oi Versailles, the Mayor of Paris and the com
mandant of the National Guards of Paris, fliould
use their utmost endeavours to difperl'e this band
of 1 obbers ; and that twelve Members should wait
on his Majefly, to entreat him to take measures
for the attainment of the fame end.
Extratf from the address of the people of Rouen to
the National Ajfcmbly, again]} the afprnats, or
notes, Sept. 3.
" True it is, indeed, that notes of 24 livres
will circulate _ without difficulty from the richert
man in the kingdom, down to the humble arsi
fans, labourers and manufacturers ; but when
oncc they have got among this latterclafs of peo
658
pie, who are the numerous, and at the fame
time the inolt ufetul in the community, they will
ialtantly produce discontents, inurmuisand per
haps inliirreiftions : and who can tell to wh<it
length the artist ?r laborer will go, when he
finds he cannot procure with his note, without
absolutely facrificing it, the smallest share of the
commonest neceflaries of life ?—Upon this plan
the nation is to be given up to be ruined by hold
ers of capital, and to be diftrefled by a few men
of wealth—Persons of this description, will have
it in their power to discharge the heavieit debts
with the molt trifling confederations —and the
people alone, for a fucoeffion of years will have
to bear a loss, inseparable from the exchange ot
the finall notes.
" The lower class are not deeply /killed in ac
counts ; and every day, every moment of their
lives, they will be at the mercy of these stock
jobbing patriots, who being no longer in a situa
tion to plunder the public treasury, are now pre
paring to diretft their engines against the fiuiple
aud honest ploughman, and the poor and indust
rious artisan, who from inexperience, will inevi
tably fall a prey to their treachery and perfidi
ous ways of dealing.
" This can admit of no dispute, that the more
the notes are reduced, and subdivided into finall
er denominations, the more they, will circulate
among a numerous class of ufeful citizens, who
are the main support ofagriculture and commerce j
and of (fonfequence, in proportion to the number
of them that you render discontented, so many
more enemies do you make to the revolution from
among these very people, who with good usage
would be its principal fuccourand support.
" The service of the army, the marine, the
charitable lioufes ; none of these can be support
ed without money. Hitherto the subsidy, the
twentieths, and the poll-tax have been submitted
to, because these taxes were received in quarter
parts, antl the quotas of few people amounted to
more than 300 livres, and consequently in this
cafe might be paid off with notes. But, the mo
ment you have decreed the circulation of affig
nats (or notes) of 100, jo, and 24 livres it is evi
dent that seven-eighths of the above taxes will
be paid offin paper, and what possible resource
will there, in that cafe, be left for government !
" There is but one method to discharge the
public demands, and which will answer every
beneficial purpose of the aflignats, without their
inconveniences.—This is to pay off immediately
the whole fuin wanted, in notes from the finan
cier's office, or national acknowledgments, which
shall bear an interefl of five per cent, and to be
received equally with gold and silver in paying
the national dues.
" By such a measure, we shall put into the
hands of the public creditors, property that can
be transferred, and at least equal ill value to
what may be termed the domain or patrimony of
the nation."
AUGUSTA, O&ober 30.
A report prevails here that brigadier general M'Gillivray has
been fcnt to some of the Spanish mines. Iris said that Mr. Se
cretary Howard waited on the general 8n his arrival in the Si. Ma
ry, with compliments from the governor of East-Florida, and in
timating his earnest desire of feeing the new brigadier, and hence
it is concluded that this visit terminated in introducing the gene
ral to the supposed place of his pTefent refidcncc. Various are
the conje&ures occafxoncd by this report ; some maintain that a
war with Spain is inevitable, and that the dignity ot the United
States, and the magnanimity of the Secretary at war can never
brook, the insult—whilst others infill that it is a meritorious ast of
the Spaniards, in punishing the American general as a deserted
Spanish colonel. J
CHARLESTON, November 9.
Yesterday the followiug gentlemen were publicly proclaimed
representatives to Congress for the state of South-Carolina.
William Smith for Chailefton diftrift ; lioa lsf t 3 -;a Je
well, for the united diftri&s of Beaufort and Orangeburgh ;
Daniel Huger, for the united dlHrifts of Georgetown and
Cheraws ; Thomas Sumptih, for the diftrift of Camden : and
Thomas Tudor Tucker, for the diftritt of Ninety Six.
A gentleman fiom the interior part of this state, allures us, that
the crops are generally more abundant than usual, which circum
stance affords the pleasing profpeft of giving rhe honefl farmer
relief in present difficulties, and adding to his future views of hap
piness.
Died st Georgetown, on the fit ft instant, Dr. Bedford Wi l
lla ms, late a surgeon in the continental army—a gentleman whose
merit and abilities in the line of his profeffion, placed him high
:n the efleem of a very numerous acquaintance—he was an affee
tionate husband, a tender parent, and a generous friend. On the
day following Alexander Keith, Efq ; of the fame place.
A HINT TO FARMERS.
•WHEAT.
WHEN this valuable grain has attained its full plumpness,
and begins to (hew its ripening color, it should be reaped
and laid a few days with the ears a little elevatad, to harden be
fore it is bound up, and afterwards stand at least a week or tea
days in shock, which will be the means of its proving sweeter,
weighing heavier, and yielding a much greater proportion of flour,
and lels of bran, ihun when it is fuffercd to (land on the ground
till the ears becomc inverted, and the corn parched and Qirivcl
ied ; but this is far from being the whole of the evil, for straw,
when cut in a dry and brittle state, is not so valuable for thatch,
fodder, or litter, as it is when cut in a greener state; and when a
brisk wind happens, there is frequently a loss sustained ot one
third of the crop.
ANECDOTE ot Dr. JOHNSON.
THE fettled avcrfion Dr. Johnson felt towards an infidel, he
exprcired to all ranks, and at all times, without the smallest rcferve.
tor tho on common occafion® he paid great deference to birth or
title, yet his regard for truth and virtue never gave way to meaner
confidcrations. We talk'd of a dead wit one evening, and some
body pi aifed him :— '* Let us never," said he, lt praise talents so
ill employed, Sir. We ioul our mouths by commending such in- l
(ldcls Allow h?m the lumirres at lcaft, intreated one of the com- j
pany :— « I v do allow him, Sir," replied Johnson, "tuft enough /
o light him to Hell." J J /Philadelphia, Dec. i.
Saturday last the PRESIDENT OF THE UNI
TED STATES, his LADY and Family, arrived
in this city from Virginia
While happy millions grateful bend the kn?e,
To^hat Almighty Power that made them free ;
Their ardent prayers, prevailing, lhall ascend,
For Freedom's Guardian and the World's b:JI Friend.
Extract of a litter from England, dated Sept. is, and
i / i
received by the Packet.
" Our harvest has hitherto been very fine, and
Wheat has fallen considerably. The importation
to Great-Britain will soon cease ; but it may be
wanted in France, where public disturbances may
probably produce scarcity.
" The douds : appear to be gathering, and I am
fearful that the liberties of French men will not
be secured without much bloodlhed. The sons
of liberty have been, in my opinion, much over
seen in attacking the power both of the Church
and of the Nobles, by which they have obliged
these to join inonecoinmoncaufe ; and these two
formidable bodies will undoubtedly use every J'e
cret artifice and open endeavor to recover their
ascendancy, and crush the democracy. A letter
to the Marquis de la Fayette, sent last July twelve
month, proposed two houses of parliament—a
houfeof representatives for the commonalty, and
a representative body of nobles chosen out of the
whole body by the votes of the refpedtive indivi
duals, which would have prevented the .making
ofNoblesby the Sovereign, and fending them to
the house of Lords to aniwer particular purposes,
as has been too'often done in this kingdom. It
was urged alfp to leave the Sovereign in poflef
iion much power as could be enjoyed con
fident with general liberty. In a populous na
tion, whether titled or not, there will be aristo
crats, no less than democrats; and I am fully of
your Vice-Prefident'j mind, that these u>uft be
balanced by the interpoling hand of fonie single
sovereign executive power, in order to prelerve
universal freedom.
It is still uncertain whether War or Peace will
be the portion of Great Britain and Spain for
another year : It war, it originates from the at
tempts of the Britilh adventurers to exclude the
Americans from trading with the Indians border
ing on the Pacific ocear), by forming a settlement
at Nootka Sound ; which settlement excited the
apprehenfioos of the Spaniards, and so an attack.
The purchasing provilions, &c. for a twelvemonth
to coine for fuppijing the navy, may be only a
fineffe of theßritifh ministry to obtain better terms
in the accommodation,by putting ontheappear
ance'of refolvednefs to go to war •, forthe provi
lions can be re-fold at far less loss than the advan
tages gained by the finefle will compensate for ;
but the policy of the United States, I hope, will
be Peace, and Trade with all the world.'"
Extratt of aleltirJroin London, SatedOftober y
" The public opinion is very much divided
as to the event of the present negociation with
Spain. A melTenger has just arrived from that
Court, and report fays, that one of the propor
tions sent there, has not been acceded to r 1 have
good reason to believe, that Mr. Fitzherbert has
sent for trefii powers. Ofopofition are endeavor
ing to'niake foine use ofjCapt. M'Donald's tefti
niony, by inflaming the people. The parliament
being on the eve of meeting, the speech from the
throne will afford a better opportunity of judging
of thd intentions of ministry, than any of the re
ports in circulation. I think it beyond a doubt,
that they will avoid a war if poflible : But John
Bull will not readily forgive the expence he has
been put to without some fighting."
Extraci of a letter from a Gentleman in Paris to his
friend in this City, dated Sept. 23.
" I shall remain here about a month longer,
where 1 employ myfelf ftudyirg politics in the
two great schools cjf this city, the cl ub 89 and the
iacobins. I likewiffe aflociate as much as pofli
le with the aristocrats : But I do not intend to
fay a word to you upon this fubiect until my re-
Turn to London, and have had time to Ihake off
the tumult of passion with which all parties here
are overpowered. I cannot help, however, men
tioning to you a most Angular circumstance, and
which has given me a good deal of pain. There
is now the fame paifion for paper money in this
country which once subsisted in America; a large
party has proposed toillue at once two milliards,
that is two thousand millions of livres, the sup
posed value of the property of the clergy, and
pay at once a full half of the whole debt of the
State ; and it is moll likely that they will suc
ceed in a great measure, by procuring an einilfion
to a very great extent, although they are vigo
rously opposed by many of very found judgment,
with all the force of reason drawn from princi
ples and experience. They will not even take
■warning by their own experience ; they have
already ifTued 300 millions of this paper, which
is fold publicly at 8 per cent, discount. It is sur
prising it has kept up so well—Judge what the
coiifequence will be of two milliards, lc is per-
fectly clear to me tlia
fa eft are r in the kin
profit by it wlio are now rum oil v, ■ i d
have purchased fi;ice I came here, chief) v foi y o ■
use; the Proces Verbal de L'Aiicmblee NaiionaJe,
with the Deerets et Debars, in 53 vols, oitavo. I
think it will be a treat to molt of your American
friends, w, 10 are fond of poli ics. Our friends
and Abb* , in fpiteot all their plnlofo
phy, are as much finitten with the paper nionev
dileafe as the molt violent amonglt them. They
do not perceive that only a certain quantity of
money can circulate in a country ii: proportion to
the commerce of that country, without finkimr
in value. Where that surplus is gold and si"
ver, it can be exported ; but paper°money made
a tender for gold and silver, is at once violating
all the private contracts of the kingdom. This
paper money mult remain in France, and exceed
ing greatly what is neceflary for the circulation,
mult fink in value in the hands of the publiccre
d iters, and in the hands of every person who
keeps it a few days. It inuft pin an end to all fu
ture confidence in private trahfactions, and con
sequently to the whole commerce and manufac
tures of the kingdom where credit is given. The
manufacturers will therefore want employment,
and flarve, which will create more confufion
than was ever created by the want of corn, or
the manoeuvres of the aritocrats.
" P. S. The National Aflembly has this mo
ment voted 1200 millions of aiiignats, paper mo* -
liey. (10th Sept.)"
By the British Packet arrived a*t New-fork,
London papers are received to the 6th of Octo
ber. From them we learn, that
An engagement between the Auftrians and Bra
ban|ers ended with great loss (Soco men) to the
lattir. Congrefe appears far ,from being dis
couraged by this check, and are determined to
support their caui'e to the iaft extremity. This
account is dated BruGels Otftober 1.
The war between Spain and the Barbary States
hgs begun by the cannonading of Tangiers, in
the beginning of September.
After much warm debate in the National As
sembly, on the 27th of Sept. and much confufion
on the fucceedingday, it was decreed 513 to 427,
That the debt immediately due from the ftatc,
as well as that of the late clergy, shall be paid in
the order hereafter to be regulated in Affignats
current, without interell. There fliall not be
more than 12,00 millions of livres in Affignats
in circulation at the fame time, including the
400 millions already decrecd. The Affignats, as
they shall be returned hlto t!ieTre-;iAiry, fiiall be
burnt, and a new emission of tkem /hall not be
made without a decree from the National Aflem
bly, and this shall always be made on condition
that they do not exceed the value of the national
domains, nor be above twelve hundred millions
at the fame time."
Tho hostilities are not yet a&ually declared
against Spain, there can be no impropriety in
terming that country our enemy. Hostile difpo
pofitions is now avowed on both fides, and it waits
but for the word of command to produce imme
diate adtion.
The Empress of Rufliafeems difpofedto make
peace with the Turks on very liberal terms. She
offers to give up her conquests made from them
during the present war, except Dczakow.
Great confufion in the French navy
The criminal proceedings of the Cliatelet of
Paris, on a denunciation of what happened at
Versailles on the Jth and 6th of Otftober, 1789,
are publiflied at last, by order of the National
Aflembly, and are the general topic or conversa
tion.
In a late aflion with the Emperor's troops, the Patriots of Bra
bant, under the command ot Mr. Vande r noot w?rc entirely de
feated, with the loss of B©co men—sooo of which were drown
ed in the Meufe.
Mo s. Bou ille, and the Count Rochambeau, are appointed
by the National AfiTembly, to the command of the troops on the
Frontiers of France ! I
It appears by recent accounts from England, that the friends ofl
univeifal liberty in that kingdom,on the pnnciplesof genuine phi-!
lanthropy, gave early intimations to the leading iniiuential cha
ra&er in the National Alfembly, that their levelling mcafures
would prove unpropitious in the result ; it seems, however, that
their hints were unavailing—for levellifm is an innocent amufe-j
ment, compared to the paper money expedient ; of all the fouiccs
of confufion that ever exited, this is the greateft.—£t effectually
turns the world upfidedown, and by ruining the best part of the
community, it crcates fortunes tor bankrupts and unprincipled
characters of every description. The powers of darkness could
not have aimed a more fatal stroke at the liberties of France. j
Extrall oj a letter front Ntw-7'ori, to a ge.iltzm*
in Vermont, dated OClobcr 30.
" You cannot but be sensible that candor has
graced ilie condu<st of this state in its latt nego
ciatiofi with you : I am glad to find your legisla
ture have ratified our conditions. The sum 90001.
(lawful money) is but a trifle, if it terminates
contention, and eftabli/hes amity between neigh
boring dates. Many among us (especially mem
bers of the law) argued, that tin ccnts per acre
would not have amounted to half the sum : but
when we reflect what a scene ot' contention it
might have opened, and how expensive determi
nations at law woqld have been, the ruinofnum
bers seems to have been contained in the latter,
while scarce the idea of difficulty is involved in
the former. Those who arc of an aiuitederal
659
>m, an<! Tho
turn both among yen and us, will start obje&i
<>ns 10 your acceflion to the union : among other
natters, tiie payment of a quota of the public
lebt may be held up as a bugbear : but when
any man or common capacity, refle<fts on the ex
e. tions made and making to dilcharge these de
mands ; when he takes into view the growing
fiate of our commerce, and consequent encreale
of Ihe public revenue by impolt and excise, the
lefult of tlie reflection must be, thatdiredt taxati
on can never arise from prefentr debts, and
through the mean of indirett taxation youalrea-
P a }' your full proportion towards supporting
she federal government.' I aflirmed that you
paid your full proportion you indiretftly pay
much more while deprived of the benefits of
reprcfentation. T he prevalent will; here, is per
petual union between New-York and Vermont,
and a just proportion of Northern influence in
Congress.
' 0 1
• -vll
" Perhaps it may not be amiss, to remark,that
the tranquility of the union is an evidence of the
goodness of the federal constitution. How fooa
alter its adoption does the animosities of the molt
antifederal Hates subside to peace. May provi
dence condu<ft yon to the union, and happineft
be the result." (Vermont Gaz.)
Among other important articles of Congressional deliberation
at thwen filing feflion, manuj actur ks and the fisheries, will
attention.—Thele important fubje£ls have
fpecially referred to the consideration of the Secretary of
WThtifufy, and the Secretary of State, to report thereon.
While wc contemplate the prcfent inauspicious afpeft of public
afhirs in France, wc cannot but feelingly regret that the line of po
licy which hLs been pursued by the National Aflcmbly, has placed
the luccefs of the revolution and the lull triumph of lrcedoin, in
very critical situation.
On luefday last the Legislature of New-Jerfcy appointed the
Hon. P.liUrto/i pickertfou and the Hon. John RutherJord> jun. Se
nators for that State in Congreis—the to fupplv the place of
Governer Pattrf&n—-the other to take his feat after the expiration
of Mr. Elmer*s time.
The 7th Anniversary of the Evacuation of the city of New
ark by the Briti sh army, was celebrated last week by Che citi
zens, with the usual demonstrations of joy.
Married at New-York, the lion. John Vininc, member of
the HouTe of Reprefcntatives of the United States, to MifsSiTON,
daughtsr of William Seton, Esq. of that city.
BOSTON, November 20.
1 lie provinces of Afcnj-Scctia and New-Brunfwici, cost the
crown of Britain above 40,000 dollars per annum, besides the armv
and navy expense*. Like the Indian's gun, " they coll more than
tncy come to."
We are happy to mention, as an instance of agricultural prospe
rity, that the HOPS rai led in the town of Wilmington (Essex) this
year, have produced .the sum of Twelve Thouiand Dollar*—at
market,
N E W-Y O R K, November e 5 .
Ihe county of Berkshire, being the weftcrmoft county of Maf
farhufetts, «borclerir<* on New-York, is found to contain, by the
late ccmus, 29,899 whites ; 323 other free persons; (laves nonk
—total 30,222 loul*. The males exceed the females 363. Of
the males, those under 16, exceed those of 16 and upwards, 431.
LATEST ARRIVALS AT THIS PORT.
Ship Flora, Lofh, Liverpool.
William, Wood, Petersburg (Ruflia.)
Snow Fanny, Wetherill, Briitol.
Brig Live-Oak, Irwin, Jamaica.
Fair Hebe, Feinour, Fayal.
Betsey, White, Cape-Francois, «8 days.
Hetty, Drinker, Charleflon, 14.
Nancy, Drives, — .
Sophia, Webb, Port-au-Prince.
Schooner Partnerfnip, Jarvis, Sinnepuxent.
Sally, Marcham, Lynn.
Delaware, Knox, Virginia.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents pr. £. or 70 pr. cent.
3 pr. Cents 7/4 ifs- or 37 do.
Defered (j pr. Cents 6/3. 33 do,
UNkundej DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 12/6 —12/3.
Indents 7/4 7/5
State debts 8/4. 8/5.
A STATED Meeting of the HIBERNIAN SOCIETY for
the relief of Irilh Emigrants, <ni!l be held at Six o'Clock, o«
Monday evening next, the 6th of December, at Mr. Patrick
B. r,n e's Tavern, Front-Street. Signed by Order,
Nov. 29. MATTHEW CAREY, Sec'ry.
College of Phi l ads l phi a, Dec. ift, 1790.
LAV/ LECTURES.
THE Hon. Judge WILSON, Professor of Laws in the Co
llege and Academy of Philadelphia, will deliver his Intro.
du&ory Lecture in the public Hal l, on Wednesday the 15th of
this Month, at o o'Clock in the Evening. Those Gentlemen wh»
propose to attend the Leflures arc requested to fignify their inten
tions soon, that the necessary Preparation) may be made for their
accommodation. Jly Order of the Faculty of the Ctitege,
WILLIAM ROGERS, Secretary.
Ebenezer Hazard,
At No. 128, in Second Street, between Race and Vine Streets*
BUYS AND S2LLS ALL KINDS OF
Public Securities.
N. B. Persons having Business to tranfaifc at the Public Offices,
may be afiifted, or have theii Business done for them (without th«
trouble and expence of a personal attendance) on very moderate
Terms. November 29.
By Carey, Stewart, and Co.
THE FIRST AMERICAN EDITION OF THE
DOWAY TRANSLATION OF THE
Vulgate Bible,
Containing 990 in Quarto. (Price Six Dollars.)
Subiciibers are requeued to fend for their Books.
Nov. 29.
This Day is publi/kcd,
No. 22, Front-S'rert,
63} do.
37 d°-
4a do.Discourses on-Davila..
NO. XXIII. —CONTINUED
Utiumqu* regem, fua multitudo conialutaverat.
THIS Prince (the King of Navarre,) began
gravely to acknowledge that the Hugonots
difguiled their passions and their interests, under
the veil of cliriltian* charity, and the cloak of re
ligion. Moreover, he was made to apprehend
that the Admiral,with his policy, would persuade
all France to believe that the King of Navarre
followed blindly his councils. They piqued his
jealousy, by reprefeming to him that the Calvin- .
ifts highly blamed his (loth and indolence, while
all their affedlions and attachments were to the
Princeof Conde, whose .courage, promptitude,and
magnanimity, they never ceased to exalt and ce
lebrate. A last confederation of extreme impor
tance, touched a nerve of exquifke sensibility :
The King of France and his brothers were of
feeble and delicate complexions, ill constituted,
fubje<£ to dangerous dittempers, and too young
to have children. The succession to the crown,
regarded him aS the firft Prince of the blood,.
and to declare himfelf the head and protector of
rihe Hygonots, was to place between the throne
jond him, an impenetrable barrier. Tofmooth
/his way the more easily to the throne, he inclined
[to re-unite himfelf to the Catholic party, to at»
I tradi the favor of the Pope and the King of Spairi>
| and to attach to hinjfelf trhe forces of the faction,
which was the best united, and the most power
ful. He began to diltruft the councils of the
Queen his wife, blindly devoted to Calvinism,
and naturally an enemy of pacific measures. T}ie
magnificent promises and persuasive discourses of
the legate, and of Manriquez, joined to so many
other motives, determined him finally to unite
himfelf with the Cowftable and the Duke of 6uifc.
They declared loudly in words and by writings,
that they were leagued only for the defence of
the Catholic religion : but their view 3 were, in
reality, much more vast. The King of Navarre
abandoned one party, in which he found himfelf
eclipsed by liis*brother, to attach himfelf to ano
ther, in which they offered him more brilliant ;
hopes. And theCui/cs entered into this conven
tion, only to re-establish their credit and ancient
grandeur.
Such was the union, which taught the French
the art of forming leagues and combinations,
•without the knowledge of their sovereigns. The
Hugonots represented it in the most odious co
lours, and called it the triumvirate. TlieOueen
Jane conceivcd a lively refentvnent of this unex
pected resolution of her husband. Full of indig
nation to fee him become the molt ardent perse
cutor of her favorite religion, in which she flat
tered herfelf flie had confirmed him ; sue resolv
ed to quit the court, and retired into Beam,with
the Prince Henry, and the Princess Catharine,her
children, wh-om flie inftru&ed in the reformed
religion, declining all further society, and com
merce with her husband. The Q_uecn-mother
■was not less alarmed with a change so sudden
and incredible. The triumvirate dejiroyed all the
projefls of an equilibrium, which Jhe had founded, on
the.diflrufls and animosities which divided the gran
dees. She dreaded as much, for the fafety of her
children, as for her own authority
procal variations, rhefe combinations of interelts,
totally opposite to each other, announced dearly
enough to her understanding, that this union
concealed high hopes, and vail designs. She
knew that the Cuifts had unraveled her artifices,
and that burning with ambition, they fought eve
ry meansofre-entering into the ministry. More- ;
over, what probability was there, that the-Kir.g
of Navarie would renounce the friendfliip of his
brother, and of his most faithful partisans, to
unite with his most cruel enemies, if he had not
been allured of great advantages in such a change.
She was not ignorant of the empire which is heid
over human hearts, even the most upright, by j
ambition and the tbirft of ruling. Finally, con
sidering every thing which, threatened her, flie
could not diflemble her own. weakness, nor that
of her children. Forced by these reflexions to
trust no longer, either the sincerity of the King
of Navarre, nor the demonllrations made by the
Catholics, of having no design of making any
innovation in the government ; a prey to con
stant terrors, alarms and suspicions, nothing was
capable of calming her inquietude. She pallid
often whole nights, in conference with her con
fidents, and among others with the Bishop of Va
lence, and the Chancellor De L'Hopitat : Their
counsels, and above all, the critical position in
which (lie flood, determined her to form a coali
tion with the Prince of Conde and the Admiral, to
favor their designs, and support herfelf with their
forces, in order to counterbalance, as much as
possible, the power of the opposite fadtion : al
jedging among other motives, to her Catholic
confidents, that God himfelf permits evil for the
fake of good : and since the Hugonots had can f
ed so many disorders, it was but just to make life
of them, to cure the distempers which hadinfedt
ed the heart of the state.
(Tt hi continued.)
THE MISTAKEN SHEPHERDS
THE hapless Shepherd of the plain,
If his lov'd Daphne frown,
Desponding, thinks his fait in vain,
Aside his crook is thrown.
His oaten pipe no mere is tun d,
His flocks untended itray ;
He feels too deep the eye-llruck wound,
And sighs his hours away.
BTut fp:ed, fond Swain, thy Charmer seek,
Who loves tl.ee, ..nd is kind ,
And only frowns, because you speak
Too little of your mind.
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, and ?OHEA
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, kc.
Of the fiift Quality—by Retail,
No. 17, 1
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market-Streets.
John Francis,
Late of New-York, refpe&fully informs tl;e tjublic, that he
has opened a
Commodious Boarding House,
*" No. 53, Fourth-Street, one door from Race-Street,
WHERE Gentlemen may be accommodated >vitli
GENTEEL BOARDING AND LODGING,
By the Week, MonHt, or Year, and on the moll moderate terms.
Phila. Nov. 20, 1790. Oaw. 3 m.J
INTELLIGENCE-OFFICE,
No.«cß, in Market, above 6lh Strict, SouthJidt,
WILL be negociated all kinds of PAPER
MONEY and
BUSINESS transacted in public oftices in the
city, and such Paper-Money and Certificates furnifhed, as will
make payment at the Land Office equal to Gold and Silver.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, and BILLS,
BONDS, and NOTKS of H AND discounted.
HOUSES, Farms, Lands, and Lots, bought
and fold, lei or leafed, and Houses, Rooms, Hoarding and Lodg
ing procured for St rangers, or others.
BOOK-KEEPERS, Clerks, School-Masters,
Waiters, Nurses, Seamftrefies, Chamber and other Maids, and
thnfc of other profeflions, who come well recommended, may
hear of employ ; and Employers be supplied, bv applying to
FRANCIS WHITE.
Dealer in Paper Money, and Public Securities.
Improvements and Additions to Mr. Eowen's
Exhibition of Wax-Work,
HIS Excellency Benjamin Franklin, Esq. -A Phitadelphian
Beauty. Peace, (an elegant figure) with her Olive Branch*
Plenty, with wreaths of Mowers, baficet of Fruit, &c.
&T TICKETS, at one quarter dollar, ma v be had at Mr.
James Br yro-n's, No. Third, below Market Street; where the
exhibition is open from 10 o'clock in the Morning, until 9 every Evening.
N. B. MINIATURE and PORTRAIT PAINTING
done at the place, on reasonable terms.
Philadelphia, 661. 30, 1790.
PURSUANT to a Refolvc or a£fc of Congtefs of the 10th day
of May, 1780, relative to the deflruction of Loan-Office Cer
tificates by accident ; notice is hereby given to all whom it may
concern, that on the 26th of December 1788, the house occupied
by William Haselton, of the Delaware State, took fire and
was consumed, in which was lodged a number of Loan-Office
certificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by tlie (aid
fire: Therefore if any perlon, hath any obje£tion why the said
Certificates fliould not be renewed, agreeable to the refolv.es of
Congress, they must make them before the expiration of three
months, from the date hereof.
These reci-
Invoice of Loan-Office Certificates 'dejl rosed in the house oJWth. Ha fatten*
1788.
Oclobci -4, of 500 dollars each. favor of James
635G one of ?4«o dollars, ( Haselion.
ELIZABETH HASELTCN,
Administratrix of
James Haselton, deccafed,
[62 6t.iaw.]
Philadelphia, Nov. 26,1790.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, ~|
I Oihber 14, 1790. J
|\T Ol ICE is hereby given, That Protofals will be received at
II >1 the Office of the Secretary of the Treasury, to the 30th day
kf November next, inclusive, for the supply of all Rations which
p ay be required for the use of the United States, from the firft day
fcl January to the thirty-fit ft day of December 1791, both days in
llufivc, at Springfield, in the State ofMufTachufctts, and the Poftof
wlft-Point, in the State of New-York.
I he Rations to be fupplied,arc to consist of the following. Arti
cles, viz. One pound of Bread or Flour,
One pound of Beef, or of a pound of Pork,
Half a jill of Rum, Brandy, or Whisky,
One quart of Salt, "V
Two quarts of Vinegar. (
Two pounds of Soap, f P r * 100 r2tIOHS » ,
One pound of Candles, )
Separate Proposals may be made for each place, fpetil'ying the
lowed price pr. lation. No credit is Required.
IC7' SUBSCRIBERS in the City and State oj
New-York—and to tht Eaflward as far as Bcjlon,
willpieaf to pay their arrearages to Mr. P, Wetroore,
at the Po/f-Office, New-York—who will also reeeiv'e
fubferiptions jor the Cazitte.
Thc t" icc °J tk,s P*P'r is 3 *>&• pr. am,, avd s d. fir £ lc
660
TE A S
At the
Public Securities,
on the above date.
plan OF THE
Gazette of the United States:
(A NATIONAL PAPER.)
Publiftied »t the Seat of the Nat , ial Government, ,
Computing
r. "C ARLY and authentic accounts of the Proceedings oj Umgrtfi,
J_i—lts Law;, A3s, and Refolutwns, communicated lo atta .
form an hillory of the tranfaftions of the national government.
11. Impartial .Sketches oj the Debates ofCongrefs.
111. Hffays on the great fubjefts of Government; Mo upon the
local and national rights of the American citizens, as founded up. .
on the national or state Cooftitutions ; and upon every other iub
jca, which may appear suitable lor newspaper riifcuHlon.
IV A Cries of Paragraphs, calculated to catch the " living man.
nersas they rife," and to point the public attention to objetti '
that have an important reference to domestic, social and public :
happiness. . . ;
V. The Interejls of the United States as confietM with heir
'iterary Institutions; religious and moral objeds ;
in Science, Arts, Education and Humanity; their foreign
treaties, alliances, connections, Sec.
VI. Every fpeeies of Intelligence which may affedl the commer
cial, agiicr.lttrral, manufacturing, or political interests of the Ame
rican nation. ■.
VII. A chain of Dtmefic Octmrrences.
VIII. A series offoreign a?tides ef Intelligence.
IX. The fate of tile Funds ; Courfcs of Exchange ; Prices Current.
CONDITIONS.
Publiflied every Wednesday and Saturdat'.
The price to fubferibers, (exclufwe of pottage) Three Dol
lars per annum.
The firft semi-annual payment to be made at the time of fub
fciibing : The fccond at the'end of the year.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Will it receive/! :n all t'ne capital towns upon the Continent; a!ft at Ni.
69, Mir.Ut-S'.rect, hlaeet Second and Third Streets, Fhilailelpht*.
To the PUKLI C.
AT this important crisis, the ideas that fill the mind, are preg
nant with events of the greatest magnitude—to strengthen and
complete the union of the States—to extend and piouft their
comcicrccr—to explore and arrange the national funds —to and
eilablifh the public credit— will require the energies of the patriots
and sages of our country—Hence the propriety oj encreafing the me
diums-os knowledge and information,
AMERICA, from this period begins her national exigence—
" tii£ world is all petore her"—the wifdorr. and fol
-1) —the misery and prosperity of the empties, Jlatcs, and kingdoms,
v/hich have had their day upon the great theatre of time, and are
now no more, fuggelt the molt important mementos —these, with
the rapid series of events, in which our country has been involved,
have taught the enlightened citizens of the United States, that free
pom and government —liberty and laws, are inseparable.
This convi&ion led to the adoption of the nf,w conftifution;
for however various the sentiments, refpetting the merits of this
I'vftcm, all cood men are agreed in the neceflity of an ejjicicr.tfe
deral fevernment.
A paper, therefore, eftabHflied upon national, independent, and
impartial principles—which (hall take up thepremif< d articles,upon
a compev knt plan, it is prcfumed, will be highly interclling,
and meet with and patronage.
The Editor of this publication is determined to leave no avenue
of information unexplored He solicits the afliftance or perfont
of leisure and abilities—which, united with his own afliduity, he
Hatters himfelf will render the Gazette of the United States not
unworthy general encouragement- and is, with due relpcft,
the public's humble feivant, THE EDITOR.
THIS publication commenced with the
present government of the United States:—lts
principal objetfls are comprised in the above plan ;
they have been thus far attended to, according
to thebeft abilities of the Editor—and that they
are deemed interesting, has been evinced by the
general approbation which the paper has receiv
ed, and the exteniive circulation it has obtained j
It ihall be the aim of the Editor to keep up the
spirit of his plan— every communication condu--
cive to that point, will \e gratefully received.—
Freedom, Government, U\>*n and Peace conftitute
thehappiuefs of'every country—the United States
in a particular manner, have their present
enjoyment*, aud future hopes, lfrfpended on the
prefer vat ion of these ey'int'ial, pillars of human feli
city : In an ardent wirti to prombte these great
obje&s, the " Gazette of the United States" ori
ginated—to these it has been—and shall be fedu.
loufly devoted ; and while it continues animpar>
tial vehicle to the public of governmental tran
fadtions, and interesting information on the molt
important fubjeifts of life, the Editor cannot fait
ef public encouragement.
Agreeable to the original design, the publica
tion is now commenced in Philadelphia, the feat
of government for the United States.—The pa
tronage of the citizens of this metropolis is here
by solicited :—Thofe who may wifli to form a
judgment of the work, are refpecftfully informed
that the firfl: volume (from April 1789, to April
1790) may be infpedled at the lioufe of the Editor,
No. 69, Market-Street.
The fecord volume commenccd in April last t
The Editor can supply the numbers complete fron»
that period—which contain the laws of thefecond
feilion of Congre-fs—and the debates and proceedi
ngs of the house of Representatives, during fout^ 1
months of the feflion.
Among the innumerable bleflings derived to
the people of the United States from the present
general government, there i* none productive of
happier effects than that fpiric of universal
citizenship which has in a great measure era
dicated party and local diftin<ftions,and now forms,
a great national feature in the American charac
ter 1 be Editor, therefore, with confidence,
takes his station in the capital of the United
States, being fully perl'uaded, that in proportion
10 his merits, he will rcceive the patronage ot
the public. JOHN FENNO-