PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENS'O, No. 69, MARKET-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 6 5, of Vol. ll.]
ACCOUNT of M. DE LA TOUR,
Late Painter to the King of France, of the Royal Academy of
fainting at Paiis, of that of Sciences, Belles Lettres, and Arts, at
Amiens, &c. &c.
MDE LA TOUR was born at St. Quentin, in 1765. His
» active genius displayed itfelf at an early period, and the
margins of all his school books were embellilhed with the effu
fions of his youthfnl fancy. Frequent floggings, however, rewarded
the (Inking caricatures of his pedagogue, which appeared conspi
cuous in various places. On his leaving school, his father fuffered
him topurfue the bent of his inclinations, and placed him with a
matter, who taught him the firft rudiments of his art.
Here he made no small progress, but was much more improved
by a journey to the Netherlands, where he had an opportunity of
studying the chejs-d'auvrcs of the Flemish School, Cambray was
at that time the feat of a negociation which employed the minis
ters of many powers. The portraits of fevcral of these were
painted by the young La Tour, with such success, that the Eng
iifti AmbalTador prevailed on him to accompany him to London,
where he received the most flattering encouragement.
On his return to France, an extreme irritability of the nervous
system forbidding him the use of oil-colours, he was obliged to
confine himfelf to crayons, a mode of painting, to which it is dif
ficult to give any degree of force. The obstacles he had hencc to
encounter served but to animate his zeal ; and he fought every
means of peTfefting his art, by the constant study of design ; to
•which he added those of geometry, physics, and even philosophy,
which he rendered subservient to his grand object, painting. The
fruits of his profound study gave anew merit to his enchanting
crayons ; and whilst his lively and agieeable conversation alleviat
ed the irkfomenefs of fitting confined to a particular posture ; the
features of the mind became imprinted on the canvass, as well as
those of the countenance.
Admitted in the royal academy of painting at the of thirty
three, it was not long before he was called to court. His free and
independent spirit, however, led him to refufe what most as ea
gerly covet. At length he submitted to the monarch's commands
« The place in which Louis XV. chofeto fit for his picture, was
a tower surrounded with windows. " What am I to do in this
Janthorn !" said la : " painting requires a single passage for
the light."— 44 I have chosen this retired place," answered the
king, 41 that we may not be interrupted."—l did not know, Sire,"
replied the painter, 44 that a king of France was not mafterof his
•wn house."
Louis XV. was much amused with the original Tallies of la
Tour, who sometimes carried them pretty far, as may be conceived
from the following anecdote. Being sent for to Versailles, to
paint the portrait of Madame de Pompadour, he answered surlily,
V Tell Madame the Marchioness, that I do not run about the town
to paint. 0 Some friends representing to him the impropriety of
iuch a mcffagc,hc promised to go toVerfailleson a certain day,pro
vided no one were permitted to interrupt him. On bis arrival he
repeated the condition, requesting leave to eonfider himfelf at
home, that he might paint at his ease. This being granted, he
took off his buckles, garters and neckcloth ; hung his wig upon a
girandole ; and put on a silk cap, which he had in his pocket.
In this dilhabille he began his work, when presently the king en
tered. 44 Did you not promise me, Madame," laid the painter,
rising and taking off his cap, 44 that we should not be interrupt
ed?" The king, laughing at his appearance and rebuke, pressed
him to go on. 41 It is impoflible for me to obey your majesty,"
answered he : 4< I will return when the Marchioness is alone."
"With this he took up hisbuckles, garters, neckcloth and perriwig,
and went into the next room to dress himfelf, mutteringas he went,
that he did not like to be interrupted. The favorite of the king
yielded to the painter's caprice, and the portrait was finiftied.
It was a full length, as large as life, afterwards exhibited at the
I>ouvre, and perhaps the greatest work of the kind ever executed.
M. de la Tour Dainted all the royal family ; and both court and
oity crouded to his closet. But amongst his numerous perform
ances, those which afe the fruits of esteem or fiiendfhip, are easily
distinguishable. In them art seems to have surpassed itfelf. We
cannot here avoid particularizing the portrait ot M. de la Con
«Umine"> in which it is apparent that the philosopher was deaf.
With an agreeable talent for conversation, just taste, a memory
flored with extensive knowledge, and an excellent heart, he could
not be destitute of friends. His house was resorted to by the mod
diftinguiftied artists, philosophers, and literati, in the capital.
Favored by the fovercign, and by the heir apparent, he was de
void of pride, and had the modesty twice to refufe the order of
St. Michael.
In his private charatter, M. de la Tour was an ufeful member
•f society, generous and humane. The desire of making otheis
happy was his prodominant, or rather sole paflion. Gratitude
published, in spite of him* his continual a6ls of benevolence, and
his door was continually surrounded by the needy. It is not ea
sy to diflinguifh the tr.uly unfortunate from those whom idleness
reduces to want, when both equally appeal to our benevolence ;
and he would rather give to those who abuft-d unfufpefting chari
ty, than hararcf the refuting succour to the really deferring, Even
if he had found one whom he had but just relieved returning to
entreat his afliftance, he would suppose that he had new wants,
and again afford him aid.
Amongst the ufeful eftablifliments to which M. de la Tour
turned his.thoughts, painting, the source of his fame, and in a
great measure of his fortune, particularly claimed h?s attention:
he gave four hundred guineas to found an annual prize for the best
piece of linear and aerial perfpeftive alternately, to be adjudged
by the academy of Paris. Pcrfuaded too of the benefits of good
morals, and ufeful arts, he founded an annual prize ot twenty
guineas, to be distributed by the academy of Amiens to the most
worthy action, or mod ufeful discovery in the arts. He also found
ed and endowed two eftablilhments ; one for the lupportot indi
gent children ; the other, an asylum for distressed age : and at St.
Quentin, a free school for drawing.
Having enjoyed all the pleasures attached to celebrity in the
capital, M. de la Tour at length retired to the place of his nativity,
to enjov the purer ones of rendering his fellow-creatures happy.
His entrance into St. Quentin resembled a triumph ; and to this
the benefa&or of mankind has surely a far better claim than the
conqueror, whose path is marked with horror and devastation.
Here, at the age of eighty-four, he fin idled his carccr.—May all,
whom fortune favors with her gifts, stimulated by his example,
make as good a use of them !
Saturday, December 4, 1790.
FROM THt PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) SPY.
[THE following beautiful LINES, wrote on
the death of Miss L n, and Miss
L L n, twins, late of Exeter, cannot
but be pleasing to our fair readers, especially to
thole, whose hearts of " thousand strings" vi
brate at the tale of distress.]
BY A GENTLEMAN IN THIS TOWN
TWO beauteous flow'rets on one Hem,
In one fair garden grew,
Smil'd at th' invigorating beam,
And fipp'd the foft'ring dew.
Not woodbines thro' the fragrant air;
Did balmier scents disclose,
The lily was not halffo fair,
Nor half so sweet the role.
Each eye beheld the matchless pair,
With admiration mov'd
And wonder'd how they grew so fair-
They wonder'd—prais'd and lov'd,
But ah ! one lovely flow'r declines !
How languishing it lies ?
( What art can frullrate h'eav'ns designs!)
It droops—it fades—it dies !
Farewell, sweet heav'nly plant ! Ah, fa*' t
How will thy partner mourn !
Snatch'd from thy lov'd embracc away>
Ah ! never to return !
But fee, the tender sympathy
Pervades the widow'd flow'r !
The lonely mourner, left by thee,
Pants for the final hour !
Itcomcs! adieu, sweet flow'rs, adieu /
Forgive thete breaming eyes,
I fee you, wraut from mortal view,
Now blooming in the skies !
VIENNA, August 30.
ON the 7th inft. in conformity to the intentions
of the late Field Marshal LaudonJ, 2carriages
filled with plans and manuscripts, were brought
from Hunterfdorf to the war-ofßce, They con
sist principally of plans of fortrefies, of sieges and
battles, executed in a superior style, enriched
with historical observations on many passages of
the memoirs on the Austrian military. The great
er part of tliefe works were by the Marshal.
M A Y E N C E, August 28.
An infurredtion lately took place here, in which
the cockade was worn. As soon as the landgrave
of Darmstadt was informed of it, he lent fix hun
dred soldiers to the afliftance of theeledtor, who
restored order. This infurredtion is supposed to
have taken place in confequfince of the instiga
tion of some French travellers in Germany. The
French apearnow desirous of overturning every
constitution in Europe.
O S T E N D, .September 3.
Vandernoof s Crusade againlt Limburg has fail
ed. The peasants which he had colleifted toge
ther, from the different diftridts, to the amount
of 40,000, entered the Province. A body of 1 j,ooo
Limbourgers, and part of the Imperial troops,
retired till they got the enemy into a convenient
situation between Huy and Liege, they then
made the attack and entirely routed the Patriots,
and pursued them to the gates of Liege, where
they were refufed admittance, in consequence of
the agreement made between the Liegois and
Leopold ; great numbers were therefore killed
report fays 7000. Three or four hundred of
the prisoners, who were undisciplined soldiers,
and therefore considered as mere rebels, were
hung, among whom were about 30 Capuchins,
and 80 Priells.—This adtion took place the 23d.
The committee of this town received this in
telligence officially, in a bulletin from the States
of Flanders, in which they fay that such another
acftion will put an end to the religion and liberty
of the country, and invite all those who have
any regard for either, to come forward and ex
ert themselves.
Sixty-nine waggons with wounded peasants,
arrived at Louvain, and 50 more at Bruilels,
there being no room for them at Namur. The
number carried in then) we know not.
This intelligence is also confirmed to us by
another letter, which mentions that mod of the
monks in the different convents of Linlbourg are
confined on suspicion of being concerned in fo
menting these disturbances. .
L 1 L L O [Dutch Brabanf] Sept,,
A proclamation from Baron d Afpre the An
ftrian deputy commandant, under the direction
of the Governor General has appeared, requit ing
every parish and community to furiiifh one man
in ten armed : every parish to furnifh a waggon
with provisions for one week, in order to repel
t he attacks of a funilar expedition among the
661
[Whole No. 167.]
Brabanters. All the volunteers to receive one
fchelling a day, and to be at liberty to return
home at the end of a week, upon giving three
days notice for a substitute to arrive.
This proclamation had nearly excited some
clamour againlt this early exercise of the Aus
trian prerogative ; and the emiflaries of the
Congrel's in the Province fomented it at much as
possible. It was complained of that they demand
ed too peremptorily what ought to have been
requested with moderation ; but a foftening in
terpretation of the Edicft, being immediately
published by the Commiflaries, the contents of it
were cheerfully complied with, and such vigo
rous measures taken, that r 6,000 Limburghers
are now under arms, all firmly resolved to con
teftthe paflage of the Brabanters to thelalt : the
remembrance of the horrors committed by the
latter at Herve are heightened by the late pillage
of the towns of Efneux and Honti,andtherefenc
ment of the Limburghers is proportionate. Tliey
have besides received a reinforcement of Bam
bergh troops from the army in the country of
Namui, which Baron deßealieu has fparedthem;
having raised the camp of Nalomont and another
advanced station, in order to detach those troops
for that more important station. They have
now numerous bodies of peasantry intermixed
with troops, who line the Banks of the Meufe
and the finaller rivers of Ourteand Vefce, inof
der to prevent an irruption.
The Compte de Gontreuil, who is indefatiga
ble in his arrargements, has taken station near
Chence to observe the motions of the Belgians.
The last accounts from Luxemburg h?ve raised
the desponding spirits of the Limburgeois and the
Auftrians ; they advise the arrival, on the 4th
inft. of 600 Wurtzburghefs and 400 horses, with
400 of Bender's regiment from Friburg ; and
they positively expect the advanced column of
the grand army by the end of the month : the
Comptede Braun, General of Artillery, who is
to command the whole army, is expecTted in a
few days, and there are no longer any doubts of
the march of the reft of the troops. Application
has been made to various of the circles for the
paflage of 40,000 men.
The Austrian relations of the late affairs, which
the Belgic details havefo much boasted of, differ
as usual; the former relate their whole loss in
the close attack, so vaunted by General Sclioen
feld, to amount to 17 men only.
They have published a lift of the cannon and
ammunition taken from the Patriots: One of
the pieces was a gifc of the ladies of Bruges,
another was from the gentlemen of the fame
town, and a third was an offering from the town
of Malines j the infeription of pro con flit utiane en
graved on them, is perhaps, as applicable in the
Iniperialifts hands as in their own.
The abode of Brussels is now become more
dangerous than ever for the true lovers ofjuftice
and freedom ; the outrages committed on those
who have alone profefled and pracftifed thofefen
titnents, are carried to the very utmost extent of
horror. A relation of the atrocities committed
last week with impunity, muftaffuredly open the
eyes of every one to the true principles of the
present Belgic adininiftration. Some wretches
of the volunteer company of Chafleurs, who have
always been prostituted to the arittocracy, on
Monday evening last, fell upon a young man of
another company, as he was parting the Hotel
d'Angleterre, and put him to death with repeat
ed strokes of their sabres. This unfortunate
youth incapable of making any resistance, hav
ing his right arm in a fling from a wound he had
received in the Patriotic ar.my, where he made
the laie expedition of forty days, had no other
fault than that of being a true patriot, and not
coinciding in the justice of all the measures of
the present government : he thus fell a cruel fa
crifice to the vengeance denounced by these
wretches upon many others. Besides, the fame
evening they found another vi<ftim, and if there
could be any aggravation to such atrocious
crimes, it was that of putting a feinblance of ju
dicial proceedings on this second offence. They
ook ai'o her young man to the guard house,
and there in that supposed fandtuary they cut
him to pieces with the fame barbarity. But this
is not all the horror ! The hypocritical and blood
thirsty priellrcrafr, far from denouncing venge
ance on such guilt', gave it a fancftion, by deny
| ng the maiigl d carcnfles of these two unhappy
[youths the accutlomed tribute of a consecratedburial ground ; a trifle however infiguificant in
its nature, yet, more than fufficient to encourage
the fanatic rabble tea repetition of such horrid
scenes. These are inert who preach a holy war,
and a facredattachment to virtue, and who now
go about theftreets of Bruxelles singing noctur
nal Mafles !
Sp, Though it inay appear strange, it is positively
Witted that the King of Prufiia is undermining
the Emperor, and secretly fomenting the Coil
grefs to continue their exertions.
L O N D O N, Sept. 2;.
Might not an offer to Congress, for a fupplyof
feanien to serve on board our fleet, be a subject
'worthy the consideration of government ? We
have often applied to Germany for troops, and
why not to America for jailors ?
It is possible that Fucli a meai'ure might also de-
Itroy thatrefentmentagainft Great-Britain,which
many individuals there find it their „interelt to
keep alive, and bring about an union between the
two people, as sincere and permanent astliefimi
larity of the language and religion would natu
rally warrant.
The King of France has sent the Croix de St.
Louis to the young officer of the King's regiment,
whose heroic courage, in clinging to the mouth
of a cannon which the Swiss regiment were re
solved to fire againil the National Guards, under
the orders of monsieur Bouille, at the gate of
Nancy, we have mentioned. The name of this
officer is not De Selli, but Defifhs ; he was born
at St. Malo The name ahd csuntry of a true
patriot is not a matter of indifference to citizens
of thaworld.
The late Duke of Cumberland was on the clay
of his decease, according to royal etiquette, con
ligned to the care of the King's surgeon. The
usual ceremony of embalming, &c. hasfince been
performed, when the royal corpse was committed
to its destined mansion, bedecked in the high
style of royalty. Every limb, and every finger,
refpe&ively, lies bound in lawn, and covered
with white fattin—the body and the face, in like
manner, bound round with the fame materials.
The neck, wrilts, knees, and feet, are elegantly
ornamented with purple bows. The coffin lined
with white fattin, richly ornamented, was imme
diately closed up for interment.
Sept. 28. What we some time ago announced is
row on the eve of fulfilling—the retirement of all
the Cabinet Ministers of France. The event was
only delayed by the utter impoflibility of procu
ring fuccefl'ors. At length we find the aspiring
faction in the National Aflembly will be able to
carry their point of substituting committees to
tranfatft the business of each department—a
wretched fubterfugeof their own virtuous resolu
tion, and which mult be pregnant with ruin.
The situation of this coun try, in point of re
fpetft with foreign nations, cannot be bet ter ex
emplified than by the'iridifference shewn by those
flares who have lately concluded Armistices and
treaties of peace. Great Britain has neither
"been mediator nor arbiter. In the very dispute
in Holland, the Stadtholderian party applied to
and relied on .the Portland interell. Mr. Pitt
may atteniy a general excise by management of
a House of Commons, but he is not equal to the
conduct o7 war and foreign alliances.
Mankind often, by their zeal and solicitude to
conceal a fact, make the exiflence of it more ge
nerally believed. In the reign of Louis XIV.
some people fufpedfced, and not without reason,
that a lady in the Abby of Moret was the King's
daughter. She was brown, and resembled liim
in other j-efpects. The King, when he placed her
in the convent, gave her a portion of 20,000
crowns. The opinion she had of her birth, gave
.her an air of pride, of which the convent loudly
c6nip]ained. Madamede Maintanon (the King's
wiftrers) In a journey to Fontainbleau, went to
the convent, and willing to inspire the nun with
more modest sentiments, endeavoured to banish
the idea that nourifhcd her pride. " Madame said
the nun, the trouble -which a lady of your rank takes to
come on purpose to tell me that 1 am not the King's
daughter, fully convinces vie that J am." This anec
dote the nuns of Moret remember to this day.
By a letter from Warsaw we learn,that the Pol
ish Diet have at last pronounced sentence on
Prince Poniniki, who has been lo long in confine
ment on a charge ofhigh treason. He is declar
ed a traitor to his country —llripped of all his ti
tles of nobility, employments, and orders of
knighthood—ordered to quit Warsaw within 24
hours, and Poland within 4 weeks ; and if he is
found in the kingdom at the expiration of that
time, he is to be capitally punished. Agreeable
to the mild laws now prevalent in France,this sen
tence only affeifts the condemned person himfelf,
and does not reach to his children.
The high stiff cape is totally banished from
our fafhionable young men ; and under the aus
pices of his Royal Highnef's the Duke of York, a
loni loose capeisto hang pendulous over the shoulder.
Gtt. i. The motion made in the National As
fembly for a new election of Representatives, it
is laid, met with considerable applause ; but it
forebodes no good to the new form of govern
ment, al it will give an opportunity for many of
the motterate wen to retire from a scene of anar
chy and disorder, and afford to the Ariltocrats an
opportunity of seizing the reins of government.
On board the Dunmore, from Natiau, New-
Providence, lately arrived,_ were Ihipped 522
bales of cotton, weighing iii,H2lbs. the growth
of the Bahama, Island* : the largest quantity ever
brought in one veflelfrom that port-.
Accounts were received by government within
thcfe few days, treaty had been proposed
by the Empress- of Rulfia, for a general juncti
on of interests between the three Northern Pow
ers, and, in consequence, difpatfhes have been
forwarded ro the Daiiifh Court, with the senti
ments of our Cabinet, in cafe
such an alhante should be formed.
Oft. 5. Th« Prince Royal of Denmark, and his
Princels, made their public entry into Copenha
gen, on the 14th of lair month. It was impolli
ble to exceed the brilliancy and good order of.
this pompous ceremony. The town was brilli
antly ill urinated the three following evenings.
All the foreign Ministers Hotels were particular
ly diltinguifhed, on this joyful occasion.
The tledtor of Mdyence at the request of the
Count de Pappenheiin, hereditary Marshal of the
Empire, has fignified to the Landgrave of Hefle
Cade), that it will be neceliary that a certain num
ber of troops should be kept in his county of
Hanau, adjoining to Frankfort, during the elec
tion and fubfcquent coronation of the King ot the
Romans and Emperor of Germany, to ensure the
public tranquility, the fafety of the head of the
Empire and of the Electoral College.
The Duke of Sudermania returned from Fin
land to Stockholm on the 12th September, on
board the frigate Camilla; and was publicly re
ceived by the Dutchefs, on the Grande Place dn
Chateau, amidst the acclamations of an overjoy
ed multitude^
I We learn, by a letter from Malaga, that eight
Spanilh veflels had bombarded Tangiers, but that
the fire from the forts had been fo'brilk and well
conducted, that the Spaniards waited for a rein
forcement. The Barbarians seem to be greatly
improved in the management of their artillery.
The Bruflels Gazette contains several long let
ters from the Commander in chief of the Patrio
tic army, giving intelligence of different battles
between his troops and. the Auftrians, in which
as he fays the former were always fuccefsful,
though the carnage has been great 011 both fides.
This intelligence is so far certainly true—that
there has been much blood shed, but we are not
inclined to give any great degree of credit to
what the Brullels Gazette contains, ssit is wholly
under the influence of the Congrcfs, and dare's
not publilh any other than partial accounts.
The Spaniards are forbidden, by a late man
date from the Court of Madrid, to fend any of
their children into France for education. Tliefe
meafurcs lose their end, and do not prevent the
circulation of free remarks upon the procedures
of the Government at Madrid. A print has been
privately circulated there which occasions much
alarm, and equal enquiry ; but the offender has
hitherto proved fortunate enough to have escap
ed detection. It represents a inan seated at the
foot of a tree, from one of the branches of which
a loaf is hanging. AfSidtion and anger united
are visible in his countenance. He looks up at
the bread, and from his mouth ifl'uethefe words:
Ss no baxtis, vie levunto / cut dcida ati t Carlos quar
to. " Unless you drop I mull rife; and then.
Charles the Fourth ! beware !"
The tedious negotiation between Spain and
this country appears to have very lately taken a
more serious turn, juid to have put 011 a morehof
tile afpetii than evjjr.
Within tliefe few days, Stocks have fallen be
tween 1 and 2 per cent, and are expecfled to fall
still lower.
The Natio.nal Afiembly now seem alarmed at
the situation of the kingdom, and be<nn to feel
some of the effects of so much precipiration in its
proceedings. In endeavoring to relieve the na
tion it has almolt annihilated it, by facrificing so
many great interests to flatter the multitude.
Stippofing the aid of this neceflary to operate a
regeneration, it has fallen into a falfe and dan
gerous fyflrem of policy. It is here the definiti
on ol royal authority, the privileges of the nobi
lity, the deftruiftion of the parliaments, and the
despoiling of the clergy have been effected by
the aid of the people, but tliefe have been dear
'/ P aic J/ or b y the abolition of the Gabelle, the
suspension of imports, and the license and impuni
ty given to crimes. The disordered state of then
finances is such, that the Aflembly, protected by
the multitude, can no longer make that multitude
a return of service and protection. On the firft
shock there murt be adivifion between the Aflem
bly and the people. The efforts of the latter are
now confined to applause in favor of the partisans
ot aliignats, and a Jew motions at thePalaisßnv
al and the Thuilleries.
1 he Due cl' Orleans' imnicnfe revenue is now
reduced to ao.oool. a year, and his influence to
a nut-flielh So rapid and violent a degradation
of fortune is hardly to be inftaiiced in the hirto
ry ot mankind.
662
F A R I S [hiancs] Sept. r4-.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
A letter from the Minister of war announced
to the National Aflembly that the King had Kill
ed orders toM. Bouil/n and Rochambcau to ftrengrh
en the frontiers and protect tliein from the bo
dies of foreign troops, who were encamped ii»
Brabant.
Sept. ij. In the evening a deputation of tfie
National Guards of Paris came to invite the AC
fembly to attend at a solemn funeral service to be
performed in the Champ de Mars on Monday
next, in honor of their brethren killed in the
affair at Nanci.
Sept. 18. A letter was read from M.
announcing, that a hundred citizens, deputed by
the General Aflembly of St. Domingo to the Na
tional Alleinbly, had just arrived at Brest. They
are come to complain of M. Pemiier, who has
ordered two bodies of troops to march from St.
Mare to diflolve the General Aflembly. The let
ter adds, that the municipality of Bred, as soon
as the Leopold that brought the deputies, arri
ved, came to a resolution to stop the failing of
the Ferme, bound toMartinico. It was decreed,
that no municipality lliould aflunie fucli authori
ty ; and the reft of the affair was referred to the
Colonial Committee.
It was also decreed, that the President at .the
head of the deputation ot twelve members (hoold
wait upon the King, to fignifytohi* Majesty the
wirtiof the Aflembly to contribute to his person
al pleasures, and the regret they Ihould feel if he
ihould make a facrifice of them.
FROM THE NEW-YORK DAILY GAZETTE.
THE LATE GOVERNOR. BOWDOIN.
Bonum virum libenter dexeris. Tacit.
ENOWN may rife from vices and from
crimes ; but real honor mult proceed from
virtues. Admiration and affetftion are two very
different sentiments ; we may admire that which
we hate, and we may love those whom we do not
adinire. The higher qualities of the human
character—those superior talent which elevate
forne men, as it were, above their species,—may
furnifti fubjecfls for applause and for wonder; we
gaze at them as at the pageants of a public fliow:
they animate our pafflotis ; they gratify our cu
riosity ; but they do not fatisfy our ljiinds. Other
virtues and other qualities, which come more
home to the common business and concerns of
life, are those in which we reft for the coloring of
individual and domestic happiness.
In following an hero to the tomb, we have
none of those I'enfations which we feel beside t lie
grave of a friend, or of one whom we knew to
have been the friend cj cthtrs. If the tear Harts
from our eye when we behold the laurelled chief
or the worldly great man, plAed beneath the
marble—we weep not for them, nor for ourselves,
but over the littleness of human grandeur, and
the narrow limits of human glory. When we
lament the death of the gi eat with personal afflic
tion, ourforrow proceeds from the remembrance
of private kindness which we have experienced
ourselves, or the knowledge of it as exercised to
others ; it springs from the reflection of virtues
that made others happy—of qualities that gave
no offence—of power that did 110 injury, of pride
that disdained to scatter mortifications—of an
integrity that was unjhaken ! Hence it is that the,
death of Governor Bowdoin occasioned a ge
neral concern among all ranks ofjpeople to wlioin
he was known. It is much to the praise of men
of high stations and ample fortunes,when affecti
on follows them to the sepulchre ; it was an ho
nor that attended Governor Bowdoin's hearse ;
his manners were affable and condescending, his
temper mild and'conciliating— his difpofi:ion hu
mane and benevolent—his purposes were honest,
and he had a tender heart ; he had an unfeigned
love for virtue, and an utter abhorrence of vice.
By every branch of his family he was beloved,
and by all who were in his service he was honor
ed He had but few, if any enemies, and he had
many friends. These were his honors ! they will
consecrate his dull ; they will endure when the
wreaths of human glory are faded forever,
" Quis dcfidero fit pudor aat modus
" Tam cliari capitis."
I knew his virtues, and sincerely loved him !
New-York, November 29.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
A HINT TO CHEMISTS.
method of obtaining the acid,is attend
ed with such great expence, that few are able to carry 011 &
manufactory of it. The great deftderatum isfco maintain thecom
buition of the Sulphur by a constant fuppjy of air, with little ex
pence.
May not this air be fupplit d in the following simple manner ?
ft j Sulphur be burnt in a common chimney, and the fumes
in tcad of Hying into the air, be carried into a room twenty thir
i\ or iotty feet aDove the hearth of the by a pipe com*
municating with the chimney and room.
LATEST ARRIVALS At THJX PORT.
Mnp Friend (hip, Earl, Port-au-Prince, 52 days.
sloop Pnoenix, Burrows, Bermuda, 30,
New-York and Philadelphia Packet, Bird t (N.Y.'
HOMO,PORTLAND, Nov.IJ,
The (lone work of the Light House, at the en
trance of our harbor is now compleated. On
l uefday the gth inft. the lall (lone was laid, by
Mr. John Nichols, of this town, inaller builder.
The work is extremely well executed, and does
honor to Mr. Nichols, aiul to the other gentle
•mm who alfifted him. The Light now
■Seventy feet high. To this the Larithoru, which
•is to be fix feet jn diameter, will add about fifteen
leet—eighty five feet in the whole. The Lan-
Jthorn is now preparing ; and will probably be
iraifed and lighted by the firft of next month.
B O S T O N, November 20
Since our last we have had two arrivals from
Liverpool, in England. The papers received
thereby are to the 1 alt of September—But they
(furnith ns with 110 farther accounts of the Hate of
the dispute between Great-Britain and Spain,
than we have heretofore received. Reciprocal
armings, and reciprocal tlireatnings arethe molt
warlike features the accounts wear : If we may
except the information, that there are in the
port of Liverpool as many as ten Privateers of 20
guns and upwards, equipped, armed and victual
led, ready to proceed to sea, (if mamied) at'a
day's notice, in cafe of a declaration of war, and
the Engliih merchantmen in that port were haul
ed up. If there is truth in this information
War appears much more likely than it ever yet
hath—for the British Ministry would be careful,
if war was not inevitable, that the commerce of
the kingdom should not fuffer by an unnecefi'ary
flagnation.
Philadelphia, Dec. 4.
Since on r tajl thefallowing Members of Congress have arrived at the
feat oj government, vh:
Hon. Oliver Ellsworth, Senator, and Benjamin Hun
tington, Representative, from Connetbcut. Hon. Benjamin
Foster, Aeptefentative from N'ew-Hanipihire. Hon. Benja
mi N Goodhu e, and George Thatcher, Repref ntativcs from
llairachulctis. Hon. El ias Boud i not, Rcptefentatiye from
Newr-Jcrfcy.
By the latest accounts there were fifteen fai 1
of the line, befules a number of frigates, lying in
Brell harbor.
It appears to be the opinion of the Britifli para-
that the French intend I'erioufly to alfiil
their Ally, Spain, with a powerful navy ; but this
depends on quelling the mutiny which they fay
prevails in every French <hip. %
Mr. Fitt, it is said, has given lip the right of
•establishing a settlement on the North Weft coast
of America, if so, as Spain hasconfented to make
reftitution.for the Merchant Ships, whatcaufeof
war between the two nations exists ? And yet the
English are making innnciifc preparations—of
yprovifions—but as for men—they are to be crea
ted—for so scarce are rhey, that a frigate lately
, returned, from h fix months cruise in the Atlantic
ocean—not in search of an enemy, but of their
■own countrymen.
Every circumstance concurs to evince the truth
of the sentiment long since uttered, that in cafe
of a war, Gre&t-Britain, difinembered from Ame
rica, would feel most sensibly the diminution of
her naval llrengtii: The proposition in a late
English paper, of hiring American seamen, is a
ftefh corroboration of the fa<ft, if it had not be
fore been abundantly verified by the arbitrary
inuu-eiiing of our countrymen into their service.
nfeiies of propositions were lately moved in
the National AHembly of France by M. Duval,
one of the members, which appear to ftrikeat the
vitalsof the revolution. They created great cbn
fufion : A motion was made for committing the
author to prison ; but the result does not appear in
tke Etigh/h account
When the motion was carried for the emiflion
of the 1200 million of livres inAlfignats si ? to 41 7,
the minority was exafptrated into ft enzy—they rufti
ed upon the President, and tore off his robes : He
tailed out that he was in danger, andgaVe hisfig
lial by covtrlng himielf.
Thus in the rood uncertain and perplexed fitua
ion do the English papers leave the affairs of
France," at thelateft period of our intelligence.
The National debt of France is said to be four
thoufatid ninehuiulred and fifty two millions, one
hundred and forty five thousand, sixty five livres
—two hundredandfix millionsfterling. [How
much the National Assembly will le[feti this fuin,
rime alone in uft determine.] —By a late ftaiement
at appears, thatfince the meeting of lhe National
.Aflembly, their expences, and the debts of the
Clergy, payment of which they have afiumed,
"with incidental charges, amount to nineteen
hundred millions of livres !- '■ —Query, whether
the national bankruptcy of France, supposing
such in event poflible, would not afFetfi the neigh
boring powers, particularly Great Britain, whole
(debt is about the fame ?
Owing to the iminenfe einiflion of Affignats by
the National Aflembly, it isfaid, that lexers from
London of 6 October, mention, that Exchange on
Paris has fallen to twenty-four pence half penny
fterl. pr. Eeu, or little more than eight pence
pr. livre tournois.
The larc Peace between Russia and Sweden it
is said was brought about by the King of Pfullia,
at the head of 30000 men, within ten miles of l'e
terlburgh !
Toe J ace of European affairs exhibits a very motley
appearance, according to the accounts from Great-
Britain, the only medium through -which the leng co
lumns of recent foreign intelligence has been receiv
er : But such is the present Jiate oj news-paper pub
lications in that country, that it is utterly impossible to
formanyprecife idea 1 on political fut>jellsJrom them,any
further than they detail Jlubbomfails, and these are Jo
thinly iuterfperftd in their multifarious lucubrations,
that you have to pioneer through whole columns of rub
bijh to find them—covjeftui-es, suppositions and spe
culations, which are generally vcid cf foundation and
which, if ptaufible, are connected with contingencies,
that the people of the United States are as uninterested
in, as in the dreams of the Bramins of Hindojtan t
form the aggregate of 'these accounts.
The Legiflsture of New-Jersey adjourned fine
die on Friday the 26th ult. The next session is to
be held at Trenton.
The election of Members for the second H»ufe
of Representatives in New-Jersey is to be on the
Fourth Tuesday of next month.
Among others, ads have be eh'pa fibdafth?iSf3
session of the Legiflatiirgfor building bridges over
thcßariton, Paflaick, ana Hackinfacli Rivers.
We hear that the Legislature of Virginia have
yoted thefum of 110,000 dollars towards defray
ing theexpence of eredting the public buildings
for the use of Congress, on the iatowmac ; and
theLegiflaxure of Maryland a further funi o £70,000
dollars for the fame purpose. ■
_ /in adi for eltablilhingabankin the town of Bal
timore, to be called the Bank of Maryland, has
pafled the Legislature of that State. In pursuance
of which a fubfeription is to be opened for three
hundred thoufanddollars—in ihares of three hun
dred dollars each—and the following gentlemen
are appointed to rcceive the fabferiptions, viz.—
Samuel Smith, William Patterfon, Jeremiah Yellot,
Engelhard Te 'tfer f Robert Gilv:or, TharouigondSmith,
Charles G arts,ThomasHollingsviorth,James Edwards,
James Carey, Otko Holland Williams, and Nicholas
Slubey.
We bear that the Glass Manufactory in Boston,
is now in such forwardnefs, that the article of
Glass wiH probably be made in great quantities
in that town the ensuing winter.
The Hon. Charles Carroll is re-ele<Sed a Senator
of the United States by the Legislature of the
State of Maryland.
It as exp'edied that the Hon. Jeremiah Wads-worth
will bs eledied member of the House of Repre
sentatives of the United States, in the room of
Pierpoint Ed-wards, Esq.
The principles of union and urbanity which
poffelsand govern the minds of our citizens, and
are evidently extending their benign influence
thro the States, are the surest pledges of internal
tranquility, and national happiness—there is a
prevailing disposition among all ranks, to pay a
just tribute ofapplaufeto the exertions ofgeuius,
and the progress of the liberal and utefnl arts, in
whatever part of our country they appear.
Monday next is the day appointed tor tlie meet
ing of Congress, in this city. Many of the mem
bers are arrived in town ; but it is not ejected
there will thenbefufficient to form a quorum.
The public building ailigned for holding the
feflion is now nearly ready for the reception of
both houses—and will be fully competent to the
objec r r. In the Hall, appropriated tor theßepre
fentatives, a very capacious Caller" for the auditors
of the debates, is built, which will, it isfuppofed,
independent of the accommodations on the floor,
without the bar, hold about 300 persons.
Under the old Confederation the people of the
United States now and then used to hear from
Cougrefs, by the way of a solitary straggling re
solution in the newspapers : How altered is the
Itate of things ! So far from being that strange
Icare-crow of an unknown something, called a
Conclave, the whole nation, from the diltrid: of
Maine to the state of Georgia, is more fully in
formed of tbe proceedings of Congrets than they
are of those of their own particular state legisla
tures —and this is juftlyto be ascribed to the edi
tors of newspapers, who, under the auspices of
the Federal Legislature, have been indefatigable
in their exertions, to bring governmental tranf
aiftions home to the door of every citizen.
Translated Extraß of a letter from one of the French Emigrants to Sci-
J . » s.j _ j.. i>.. /r_ . . r>L.: - Ar. l
ota, dated Crique des Bujfulocs, on the Ohio, October 20,
" AN'accident having happened to one of our boats we have
put into a CmaN creck, on the east lide of this great river, to repair
the damage. I am now writing on the stump of a tree we have
juit cut down, so that you will not look for elegance or fine fen
tirnentsin this Ihort letter, which I fend you by a young man, a
native of Pcnnfyivania, who is going into New-Jersey. We tra
velled by fhoit days journeys to the place of embarkation, and
cannot fay much in favor of the mannefs of the inhabitants on the
road by which we pafled, a very tew excepted, who paid some
attention to us, and fold the produftioijs ot their farms at a rea
sonable fate ; as to others, they took every advantage, and fre
quently imposed upon us in the mod fhametul manner, demand
ing thiee or four prices for the casual refiefhments of which we
ar.d our little ones had occasion. We hope soon to arrive at our
new territory, where we (hall find things in[ their original ftatc,
luch as God made them, and not perverted by the hand of uu
giateful man.
" To some, these surrounding woods might appear frightful
defarts; to me-they aie the paradifc ol nature, wailing to be cul
663
tivated by the hand of urbanity and civilieation, not by mere (a.
v age tons ot the earth, whose ideas and 'manners are, if ooflible
more wild and uncultivated than the bean and wolves tha't alarm
us with their noflurnal giuntings and howlings.- What happiness
j do I anticipate in those sequestered foliludes to which I am haft
i entng—there are no hosts ot greedy pritfts to devour the glean
mgs ot the neecy ; no seas of btaoc to wade through in order lo
recover oft liberty here all is <juiet, and the savages thcmfelves
,oon be 'aught the art of cultivating the earth, refinement of
manners, and the duties of genuine devotion. Under this free
and enlightened dominion the unfortunate and oppressed of onr
nation (halllever find anafylum ; iheir language and cuftomswilt
here be preferred in their original purity for ages to come, and
f ranee thall find herfelf renovated in the weftertr world, without
being disgraced by the frippery of kings, or feeing her best blood
waited in gratifying the ambition ot knaves and sycophants
The weather is already cold, my hand is benumbed, and our lit
tie temporary cabbin is so full .f fmoak, that I dare not venture
in .0 I bid you adieu ; to-morrow we pursue our route, and
hope to be fixed in comfortable houses before the 25th of Decern-
A correspondent obfervti, it is the jnft boa ft and honeftprideof
every true American, his country is an asylum for the oppretT
cdof every class and religion, in the old world. Great praise
and much honor are due to those of our humane fellow citizens
who ditlinguith themselves by theiraftive and fpiriied exertions,
in procuring afliftance and relief for the tick and diftrelled, not of
a particular iUtt ; not of United America ; but of the habitable Globe ;
the peace and happiness of which, will ever be the narrowed limit
and boundary of American philanthropy and freedom. Dai. Adv.
Hie Sheriff oj the County of Suffolk in Mafachufetts at all public enter,
tainments announces the toajls—thc origin of which follows.
GOV. SHIRLEY of Maflachufctts, while on a public commif
(1011 in Fiance, married a Frcnch woman : On his return to hij
governraeat, at a public entertainmen', afterthe King and R-jyal
Family vveie to.ifted, he gave, the T.arl of Holdenefe, who was the..
Prime minifteT. Ihe Door-lleeper, who at that time announced
the toaih, laid, "Hu Excellency gives his Holincfs The Go
vernor with altonifoment and indignation vociferated. " youraf
cal Idm not." Col. P < being prefent,and at that time Sheriff
of the county, darted up, and repeating the toast as it was really
delivered. c. aimed the agtcation the company was thrown into by
the incident; and lrcin that time this service has always devolved
on the Sheriti' for the time being.
Postscript.
BY THE MAIL ARRIVED LAST EVENING.
PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 4.
nnHEShipO™, Capt. d<3LE S , arrived at New-York the fit ft'
-1- instant, from London, and brought papers to i6ih O&ober :
The poiinon ol public affairs in Great-Britain is not materially
changed since the accounts by the packet, which were to the 6:h
of OCt. Another meiTenger was hourly expected from Spaia
with a categorical avfzver.
Proposals for re-eftablilhing tranquility, in the principality ot
Liege, had been reje&ed by the malc-contcnts.
A plot to bring about a counter revolution in France was fea
foiicbly discovered and prevented.
Or» Sunday. Sept. 20 last, the Rev, Jambs Madison, D. D.
President of William and Mary College in Williamfburg, was
consecrated Bishoi-of Vi rgi nia, at Lambeth Chapel, London,
by his Grace the Archb»fhop/of Canterbury—aflifted by the Bish
ops of London and Hockefter.
TO CORB*SPQM)£WTS.
"Tiie Student, No. I. by Simon $earcker y Esq." was not re
ceived in season for this day's paper ; but (hall appear in our next.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FIINDfD DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 14f. pr.
3 pr. Cents 7/5 ;/6.
Defeied 6 pr. Cents 6/6.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Scttl. and other Certificates 12/8 —12/10
Indents l/h~' —7/6. -
State debts 8/6. 8/9.
This Day is publiftied,
By Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22, Front-Street,
The American Museum,
FOR NOVEMBER, 1-90,
CONTENTS.
ORIGINAL ARTICLES.
PROSE.
METEOROLOGICAL observations, made in Philadelphia,
Oft. 1790. Obfeivations on the weather in do. Medical
Cafe. The Temple of Hymen, Anecdote. Fragment. Remarks
on locust trees. A {ketch of the nature and causes of diseases, ex
plained upon fcientific principles. Remarks on capital punilh
ments. Peter Pennylcfs—a fragment—by John Carey. Short
{ketch of the life of dr. Franklin.
The Temple of Hymen. Female love forfaken. Song to ab
sent Laura—By W. P. Carey.
SELECTED ARTICLES.
Character of Dr. Franklin. Account of a curious spring. Wild
cherry tree sprouts po'ifonous to cattle. Description of the falls of
Niagara. Method of checking the progress of fire. Dr. James
Malonc's receipt for the cure of a cold. Number of vessels enter
ed at Philadelphia, from March 1735 to March 1736. Remarks
on frugality—by the Rev. Joseph Lathrop* Thoughts on censure,
family disagreements, &c. by fir Wm. Keith. EfTay on the influ
ence of religion in civil society. The origin of despair. Eulogy
on eaily rising. Reflexions on the custom of burying the dead,
and the danger of precipitate interment. Influence of death*.
Life of Julia, or the penitent daughter* Public virtue to be diftin
guifhcd by public honors: by the late Gov. Livingfton. Re
marks on beauty and grace. £ (fay on good humour. Census of
the inhabitantsof Charleston. Enumeration of the number of peo
ple in different towns of the Hate of Rhode-Island, in 1782 & 179®.
Amount of tobacco exported ftoin Virginia. Number of people
in Boston. Extra# from a masonic discourse. Receipt to make
an excellent American wine. Remarks on salting pork. Now
method of feeding silk worms. A Georgia planter's method of
spending his time. Account of the culture of silk in Newhaven,
Constitution of New Hamplhire. Constitution of MalTachufetts.
POET R Y.
Address of lady to her husband, on his return from a long
absence. Song : in imitation ot the w.rry god. To a lady—*
carefling her children. Elegy to Laura : by W. P. Carey. The
hermit : bydr. Bcattie. Verfeson the marquis de la Fayette.
F-agraont of a poem on the ere&ion of the works at Dorchcftcr,
Pliilidia's riddle. Vevfes, addrefied to miss M. A. A.
funjat Scnninjton 3 August 16, 1790.
ANECDOTE.
or 70 pr. cent.
or 874 do.
3 2 k do >
37i do '
42 do.
POETRY
PROSEDiscourses on Davila.
No. XXIII. — CONCLUDED,
Utramquc regem,fua multitude* contalutaverat.
THE Hugonots delivered from the fear of pu
nifhinent, by the publication of the Edidt
of January, had began to recover courage, and
held frequently public aflemblies ; their party
appeared considerable, both by their number and
the quality of their members : and their forces
•were not inconsiderable. The Prince of Conde
had openly declared himfelf their head ; he was,
in appearance, reconciled with the Guises, in
obedience to the orders of the King : but, in his
heart he burnt with an impatient desire to re
venge himfelf, against his principal persecutors,
for the outrages which he had received. Ihe
Admiral, who in the view to aggrandize himlelf,
as well as his brothers, more ftritftly united than
ever to the party of the Hugonots, moderated
the ardor and vehemence of the Prince, by the
maturity of his counsels. Under these chiefs,
and in the fame sentiments, were engaged the
Prince of Porc'fen, the Lords of Cenlis, of Gram
mont, of Duras, the Earls of Rechcfoucault and of
Montgomery, the Barons of Ardrets, of Bortchavati
ttfs, Soubire, and several other great men of the*
kingdom. With any, the least authority of go-'
vernment, they were in a condition to resist, and'
oppose boldly the opposite party.
The Queen, forced as she thought to take ad- ■
vantage of a conjun&ure so favorable for her l
own defence, and that of her children; and re
duced to the neceflity of embracing the firft par
ty which presented, however dangerous it might
be expe&ed trom time and events, the unravel
ling all their intrigue. She feigned to be stag
gered by the reasonings of the Hugonots, and
disposed to embrace their opinions. To confirm
them she was more in this opinion, by exterior
demonstrations, she caused their ministers to
come into her apartment, and appeared to hear
them with pleasure. She manifefted great confi
dence and benevolence to the Admiral, and the
Prince of Cotide, in the frequent conversations {he
had with them. She deceived the Dutchefs of
Montpenfier, by her falfe confidences, and made
use of her, to allure the principal Hugonots ; the
better to color the promises and hopes, which she
gave in secret, by apparent measures. She wrote
even to the Pope in equivocal terms. Sometimes
she demanded a free and general council, such
as the Calvinifts desired : sometimes, penniffion
to convoke a national council. Another time she
solicited the use of the communion in both kinds,
a dispensation to pritfts to marry ; the liberty of
praying in the vulgar language, and other simi
lar innovations, as the Catholics called them,
which the Hugonots wished, and introduced.
lie Liflt, the French ambaflador at Rome, second
ed her so perfectly, that, by exciting doubts con
cerning her faith in the minds of the P«pe and
the Catholics, she obliged them to observe great
caution in their own condudl, for fear they should
irritate her, and disgust her against the Roman
religion. By the fame artifice flie deceived the
penetration, and gained the hearts of the Hugo
nots, by persuading them that she was wholly
disposed in their favor : to such a degree, that
the implacable hatred which they once bore her,
had given place to confidence and attachment.
It was not only the people that she amused by
these appearances : the Admiral himfelf, in
fpight of all his appearance, policy arid penetra
tion, had fuffered himfelf to befeduced. Hehe
fitated not to give the Queen a circuinftancial ac
count of the number, forces and designs of the
Calvinifts, of the correspondences which they
maintained, both within and without the king
dom, and of all other particulars which concern
ed his parry ; as soon as she gave liira to under
stand, that /lie desired to have exact information
before she declared herfelf, afluring him that she
would embrace openly that party, as soon as it
should be fufficiently powerful to place her out
of the reach of the vengeance of the Catholics
and the triumvirate, composed of the Duke of
Cuife, the Constable and the King of Navarre.
Thus, by a change equally prompt and incredi
ble, the King of Navarre attached himfelf to the
Catholic parry, and Queen Catharine, at lead in
appearance, became favorable to the Hugonots.
These variations were at the time attributed to
the levity of mind of the King of Navarre, and
the natural inconstancy of the sex of the Queen :
and it is thus that some Historians have since
judged : who were either not capable, or had not
opportunity, like Davila, to unravel the secret
springs of these resolutions.
Is it possible to place an unbalanced govern
ment, in a light more despicable or more con
temptible ! Can human nature be more disgraced,
than by this cndlefs series of unions, reparations,
coalitions, combinations and tcrgiverfations ?
And yet it is most obvious, that such a series mud
forever be the eflFeft of a conllir.ution, where
there is no legal quilibrium.
Dr. -Price'.* Revolution Sermon to be fold by the
Editor—price 1/6.
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
P£R QUANTITY
DECEMBER 4.—Dollars at 7/6
ANCHORS pr.lb. Porter, American pr. doz. 12s
Al!um,En S lilh, pr. cwt. 36/ Pitch, pr. bbl. *5*
Ditto* Roch pr. lb. 10d Pork, Burlington, 90*92*6.*
Ashes, pot, per ton, 35 a 37/10* Lower county 70* 5*
Arrack, pr. gall. ic*i2*6i ►Carolina ~o j
Brandy, common, 6* Peas, Albany V° d 8 ' i d
Cogniac 7*6 i Pepper, pr. lb. " a
Braziletto, pr. ton. 12/ a 16/ Pimento ls 3*
Bricks pr. M 30* Rice pr. cwt. 24*
Bread, (hip pr. cwt. ißj6i 19* Rosin pr. bbl. 25J
Ditto, pilot 35* Raifms, bell, pr. keg 75'
Ditto, small water 65* Ditto pr. jar 24* 6<f 30*
Beer, American, in bot. ) o , Ditto P r - box 17* 6d 2^sod
pr. doz. S 4 f Jamaica pr. gall. 5* 6d 6*
pr. bbl. 3 C ' _ Antigua V 9<* 5 s
tn f Oak pr.M feet, 4/10* 4/18* S Windward 4 s ° d
O I Merch. pine 4/10*4/15* B<! Barbadoes 4 1 4' 4«
$■{ Sap, do. 2/12*61/2/15' : Country, N. E. 3*3*ia
q j ——N. Eng. 2/5* LTaffia i^d
•A [_Cedar 4/ Saflafras pr. ton 45* 60*
The ahove are the Shallop prices \ Saltpetre, pr. cwt. 6/10*
for the Yard prices add 15<pr M. Sulphur, flour 40*41*
Briroftone in rolls pr. cwt. 24* Shot s os
to (Irilh pr. bbl. 55*60* (German pr.cwt. 60*70*
S < 3o(lon 5° s 55 s w jEnglilh, blistered 82* id
W (Country 45* 47*61/ W S American pr. ton 40/60/
Butter pr. lb. " "2d "> (Crowley's pr. fag. 4/10*
; n kegs lod lid Snake root pr. lb. 1J 6d 2*Bll
Cedar,red timber pr.foot 2s2s6d Soap, Common $d 6d
Chocolate pr. lb. 12 Brown 6d
Coal fr. bushel 1* 8d Castile B<i 912
Coffee pr. lb. Starch 7?d
Cinnamon lß* 20* Snuff isSd 2s\d 3'
CaflTia
Cheese, English is 6d
—- Country 6d 7\d
£ f Sper. pr. lb. 3s 3d 356 d
3 | Wax 3*
Q MvrtleWax I*2d
I Mould,tallow 12d
y I Dipped I°d
Coiton 1J 4 11
Cuirants B<i
Cloves
Copperas pr.cwt. 15J
Cordage 65J 6ys6d
Cocoa 6fcj67s6d
Duck, Rufiia, pr. piece Boj 851
Ravens 65 s 7 os
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 44 s
Common, 40J 4 *s
Bur middlings,beft 36-6</
Middlings 32 s6d
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. 14J 15*
Flax pr. lb. 8d 9d
Fustic pr. ton, 1355 15OJ
Feathers pr. lb. 2s \d
pr. bulh. 5s 2d
Glue, pr. cwt. 7/ ioj 81
Ginger, white race 52 s 6d
Ditto, common 50 s
Ditto, ground pr. lb. B%d
Ginseng, 2 s
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. J
quarter calk, >
Ditto, fine glazed 37 s 6d
Gin, Holland, pr. gall. $s 6s
Do. pr. cafe, 3OJ
" Wheat pr. bufli 7s6d 8j 6d
> R y e , 5 s
£ Oats 15 8a is 6J
< Indian corn 3*3^3 J 6i
* Barley £6d
Befl {helled 20j
Buckwheat us %d
Hams pr. lb. 7aSd
Hemp, pr. ton, 50/56/
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 5/ 6/
Herrings, pr. bbl. 20s
Hides, raw pr. lb. lod
Hops 2
ndigo, French, js 6d 12s
Carolina 4J 7s 6d
Irons, lad pr. cwt.
[ Callings 2256 d 30J
£ I Bar pr. ton, 29/ 30/
O Pig 10/
25 | Sheet -60/ 65/
Nail rods 35/ ioi
Junk, pr. cwt. 27s 35J
Lard, hogs lodud
Lead in pigs 4OJ 421 6d
in bars 45J 50 5
Lead, white 80/ 85J
red 47J 6d
Leather, foal pr. lb. is 2d 1s ±d
Lignum vitas pr. ton 42 s 45s
Logwood 7/ $s 8/
M al, Indian, pr. bbl. 20/
Rye 25s
Mackarel,bcft 60s
Common 30J 52s 6d
Mace pr. lb. 70 s
Mustard 2s 4d
Madder, best isSd \sgd
Molasses pr. gall. 2s6d 2s yd
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 13;
Ma ft' spars 6j 7s6d
Mahogany 8 d 12 d
Nutmegs pr. lb. 60*6-s6d
Nails, iodi?.d&c2od—
'Linfecd, pr. gall. 3*9 d
Train is 10d 2s
Spermaceti §s 7^
Whale is 10d 2s
g Olive 6s 6d
° I Ditto pr. cafe 28J 30J
1 Beftfweetin ) CJ c
fld{ks,pr. box, J 6cm
L—baflcets 12 bottles 28*
Oak timber pr. ton 4OJ
Porter in casks, pr. gall. 2s
London,pr.doz.t2j6i 15s
College of Philadelphia, Dec. id, 1790.
THE Hon. Judge WILSON, Pr ofessor of Laws in the Col
lege and Academy of Philadelohia, will deliver his Intro,
duftory Le3ure in the public Hall, on Wcdnefday the 1 «h of
this Month, at 6 o'Clock in the Evening. Those Gentlemen who
propose to attend the Lectures arc >eque(led to fignifv their inten
tions loon, that the nece(Tary Preparations may be made for their
accommodation. By Order ef the Faculty 0/the College,
WILLIAM ROGERS, Secretarv.
664
refined,
oail Cloth, £ngUa», > ljgji 212 d I
pr. yard, J !
—-Boston, No. I. 2*3"
No. 11. si2d
Ruflia thecting, pr. p. 90/
fLurap, pr. lb. »j l '
oJ j Loaf, iingle refined is6d
< J Ditto, double do. island
y j Havannah, white 11 d
55 J Ditto, brown, 8d 10d
LMufcovada,pr.cwt 6osgos
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall, gsgd
f Allum pr. bush. zj 2s 3d
j ) Liverpool es6d
<J ) Cadiz v-s
(Lisbon ss^disSd
Ship build. W.O. frames ) 80/
p. ten, J 8y
Do. LO. & red C. do. 616t$s
Shingles, short, p. M. 151 20s
■long drefled 905 100s
Scantling, heart, gosi^os
Sap 42s 45 J
rPipe pr. 1200 pieces 12/
tW. O. hogthead 7/ 5s
> j R. O. do. 5/ 10s
< j Leogan 5115J
« Barrel 4/15)
L Heading 8/ioj
Otter, bed pr. piece 2756 d
Minks ij 2j 6d
Fox, grey 2s 6d 5s
red 6/ ys6d
Martins 3*
Fi fliers 2s6d 5s
Bears ys6d 20s
Racoons 2s 4s
Muflc.-rats is 6d
Beaver, pr. lb. 7s6d 11s 3d
Deer, in hair is 6d 2s3d
,N.Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 13J
-Carolina, 32 gall. 15*17.?
pentine 20J 2256 d
-Spirits, pr.gell. 3*9^
r James R. new best 35*
£ 1 inferior 26s 28s
o
Tar,
Tun
old 45 s 50s
Rappahannock igs6d22s
Colo. Maryland 40 s 60s
Dark 20s 22s 6d
Long-leaf 22s 6d
Eastern-shore 15J 16s
Carolina, new 24J 26s
_ old 30 f
Hyson pr. lb. ioj ioj 6d
Hyson Ik n, 5J
Souchong, bed ys6dSs
Congo, 2ssdss6d
Bohea, 2J 8d
Tallow, refined y\d gi
Tin pr. box, iioj H2j6d
Veidigreafe pr. lb. 41 4J 6d
Vermillion, IU3 d
Varnilh, 2s 2s 3d
' Madeira, pr< pipe 40/80/
Lisbon 40/
Teneriffe 22/IOJ 24/
Fayal pr. gall. §nd 31 3d
Port pr. pipe 39/ 40/
Ditto pr. gall. 5 10d
Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 3OJ
Claret 3OJ 45*
Sherry pr. gall. 6igd gs
.Malaga 5 j
Bees pr. lb. 2s 2J 6d
ile-bone, long pr. lb. issd
■short, pr. lb. U 12fcd
Wax.
Wha
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
Ditto
60 days
Ditto 30 days
Amftcrdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 3 j
3 9 days 3 S 1 d
LAW LECTURES.
JVfASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERV.
THE Managers as the STATE LOTTERY, prcfent the Public
with the First C'afs of the MaJfachufeUs semi-annual State Lot
ten, which will commence drawmgin the R'prcfentativcs' Charr.ler,
in'Bodon, on the Seventeenth of March next, or foonir, if the
Tickets Ihall be disposed of.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
2J,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125,000 Dollars, to be paid in the following Prizes, iubjefi 10 i
dedu&ion of twelve anian half percent, forthe use of the CO5l
-
Prizes.
10
12»
161
20<5
7585
8388 Prize*.
16612 Blanks.
25000.
(YT TICKETS may be had of the several Managers, who wilt
pay the Prizes on demand—of the TREASURER of the Common
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Store, Franklin's-Heii,
Court-Street, and at other places as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.T
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER, Managers.
GEORGE R. MINOT, J
JOHN KNEELANTD, J
Bojlon, July 28, 8790.
At No. 128, in Second Street, between Race and Vine Stfcetfcjj
N. B. Persons having Business to tranfafl at the Public Offices,
may be aflifted, or have their Bufinfefs done for them the
trouble and expence of a personal attendance) on very moderate
Terms. November 29.
By Carey, Stewart, and Co.
THE FIRST AMERICAN EDITION OF THE
DOWAY TRANSLATION OF THE
Vulgate Bible,
Containing 990 Pages in Quarto. (Price Six Dollarfy
(£3T Sub (bribers arc requeftcd to fend for their Books.
Nov. 29.
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, See.
Of the firft Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market-Streets.
Late of New-York, refpe&fully informs the public, that he
has opened a
Commodious Boarding House,
N°» 53> Fourth-Street, one door from Race-Street,
WHERE Gentlemen may be accommodated with
GENTEEL BOARDING AND LODGING,
By the Week, Month, or Year, and on the moll moderate terms.
Phila. Nov. 20, 1790. [2aw.3m.J
INTELLIGENCE-OFFICE,
No. 208, in Market, above 6th Stre et, SouthJidc,
WI L L be negociated all kinds of PAPER
MONEY and
BUSINESS tranfa<fled in public offices in the'
city, and such Paper-Money and Certificates furnilhed, as wiU
make payment at the Land Office equal to Gold and Silver.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, and BILLS,
BONDS, and NOTES of HAND discounted.
HOUSES, Farms, Lands, and Lots, bought
and fold, let or leafed, arid Houses, Rooms, Boarding and Lodg
ing procured for Strangers, or others.
BOOK-KEEPERS, Clerks, School-Masters,
Waiters, Nurses, Seainftreffes, Chamber and other Maids, and
those of other profeflions, who come well recommended, may
hear of employ ; and Employers be supplied, by applying to
FRANCIS WHITE.
Dealer in Paper Money, and Public Securities.
Improvements and Additions to Mr. Bowen's
Exhibition of Wax-Work,
90 days,
HIS Excellency Benjamin Franklin, Esq. A PhiliUelphiae
Beauty. Peace, (an elegant figure) with her Olive Branch.
Plenty, with wreaths of Flowers, basket of Fruit, &c.
03° TICKETS, at one quarter dollar, mat be bad at Mr.
James Bryson's, No. 4* Third, below Market Street ; where the
exhibition is open from 10 o'clock in the Morning, until 9 every livening.
N. B. MINIATURE and PORTRAIT. PAINTING
done at the fame place, on reasonable terms.
Philadelphia, Od. 30, 1790.
A STATED Meeting of the HIBERNIAN SOCIETY for
the relief of Irish Emigrants, will be held at Six o'Clock,oa
Monday evening next, the 6th of December, at Mr. Patrick.
Byrne's Taveru, Frojit-Street. Signed by Order,
Nov - 2 9- MATTHEW CAREY, Sec'ry. ,
ihe price of this paper is 3 dolls. f>r. am. and sd. jingle number-
Dollars.
10000
3000
200®
1000
509
200
100
59
40
3°
20
#0
Ebenezer Hazard,
BUYS AND SELLS ALL KINDS OF
Public Securities.
This Day is publifhed>
No. 22, Front-Street',
A S
T E
John Francis,
At the
Public Securities,
10000
6000
6000
6®o»
5000
60a#
8oo»
45°®
4000
3**9
2009
6068)
12500*