[No. XLIV.]
For The Tablet, No. XLIV, fee /ast page.
NEW-YORK, September 12, 1789.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES,
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3.
Viite mthcfdjcß tf fixing the PERMANENT SEAT of GOV
ERNMENT—Continued.
THE motion of Mr. Goodhue being read, Mr. Madison
observed, that as thegentleman has been candid enough to
inform the committee that theu measures have been preconcerted,
and that the better half of the Union are to be difpofcd of by con
tract at the {Sovereign will of the other, I hope they will be also
io candid as to Ihew in the clearest manner, that the principles
which have now been established are applicable to the motion
made by the Member from Maflachufetts. I wifti they would
prove that the place which they have pitched upon, is in fa£t the
permanent center, and New-York the temporary center of wealth,
population and extent of territory, that the grounds may be
known on which this great qucftion is to be dccided.
Mr. Goodhue replied that the Sufquehanna is not far from
the center of territory ; that itis further south than the center of
population, which may fall fomewhereon the Delaware. I believe
that this center of population will never alter materially, as I sup
pose it will always incline towards the manufa&uring States.
Mr. JaPkson I was originally opposed to the question's com
ingforward, and am so flill. I thought the fubjett ought not to
be touched upon till the States who have not yet acceded io the
Union might have an opportunity of giving their voice ; I agree
with the gentleman from Virginia. lam sorry that people
Ihould learn that th : s matter has been precipitated ; that they
(hould learn that the Members from New-England and New-York
had fixed on a feat of government for the United Slates. This is
not proper language to go out to freemen. Jealousies have already
gone abroad. This language will blow the coals of sedition anti
endanger the Union. I would ask if the other members of the
Union are not also to be consulted ? Are the taftern members
to dictate in this business, and fix the feat of government of tbe
United States ? Why not also fix the principles of government ?
Why not come forward and demand of us the power of legiflatior,
and fay, give us up your privileges, and we will govern for vou ?
If one part has the power to fix the feat of government, they mzy
as well take the government from the other-—This looks like ari
stocracy. Not the United, but the partial voice of America is
codccide—how can .gentlemen answer for this, who call t.bem-
Xclves Representatives on the broad basis of national interest ?
I deny the fa& oi the territorial centrality of the place propof
td. From New-York to the nearest part of theprovince ot Maine,
it is two hundred and fifty miles ; and from New-York to the
nearest part of the upper diftriffc of Georgia, from which my Col-
Itague, General Matthews comes is eleven hundred miles ; and
from the proposed place on Sufjquehannah, it is four hundred
miles to the nearest part of Maine, and qco to the nearaft part of
that diftrift.—The proportion is more than four to one. But the
gentleman should have an eye to the population of Georgia. One
of the fined countries in the worlA cau not but rapidly extend her
population. Nothing but her being harraffed Dy the inroads of
hajchecked her amazing increase, which must under the
of peace and fafety people her western regions.—Georgia
will soon be as populous as any State in the Union. Calculations
ought hot to be mad eon its present situation.
He concluded with himfelf in favor of the Patowmae.
Mr. Goodhue replied that the diflance from that partofthe
province of Maine, from which one of his Colleagues came, to
Sufouehannah is seven hundredandfixty miles;from Savannah, to
the fame center about seven hundred ; and from Kentucky nearly
the fame.
Mr. Laur ance observed, that when this matter was under dif
cuflion feme time, it appeared to be the wilh of the members from
the eaftwajd, and of the Representation from this State, that this
cili should not now be decided. TKey urged ieveral reasons
vto U would be improper. I xho.ughl those relfofns weighty, and
poflponing the consideration till next meeting : But it was
jnfwcred that the business was important; that the citizens of the
tnrtcd-States were uneasy andanxirtils, that factions-did not now
**iil, : and Chat k was now the pct>per time to decide tins qtitflion.
the Representation from the eastward to do ? Was ft
Wt neceflary tor them to con Cult, and fix upofi the proper place ?
They are disinterested. It is well known, he said, that gov
ernment is expected to be "fixed in Virginia, Maryland, Penn
sylvania, or Jerffcy. We are called on to determine on a question
w whigh we conceive ourselves unbialTed, and to detertnirfe it on
principles wjiich wil) rcfleft honor on th»s House. I trust it
wi'lbe found that we have fixed on those principles, and that this
resolution ivill be confirmed by Congrcfs. do not, he said,
decide for the Union, nor for the southern States. We decidc
•or QHtfelVej, arid if our .reakms are substantial, I trust that gen
ticineu-wiU meet us in the 4vteripinasiQo.
There are Several which have been agreed to in the
general refo'likion. I believe it will be {hewn with exattnefs,
'hat the place prop<Mc*tl will come within principles. The
tutpopulation. Isihe Houlie tocoqfider the present or the
<Xpe£icd population ! The rcfolutioii has a determinate meaning :
lpeaks ;h r e Bt tjbe present period : and to calcu
ljte on this principle, gentlemen can not fay *is unjust. The Rt>
P'tfeMetipn in this House is itfdf a demonstration of it. The
fopulatiou vof this country may be determined pretty fafelv by
• e pioporno:i in thgrlloufe ; for k is probable that it iveftablifhod
on this ground. 1 believe therefore that the principle-os popuJa
'ontcadsto this place in preference to a more southern fituatioij.
But to take up the principle of territory, are the House to caL
on the uninhabited w.ildernefs ? Shall they takethe Lake
J the Wcods on ont fide, and the Miflouri an the othor, and
nd a-gcogiaphical center ? Iffo, to what an extent must tiiey
V .populated part of the country ought
10 considered. I-f St. Croix is taken as thjs eastern limit,
, f Mar y a * southern, the conter of tht l*ne will be found
ooh pretty the Sufquehanna.
it is another important confederation that this center is cn navi-
f a snd fufficientlw removed from the Atlanticcoaft,
'\Vet a ' as to security. With refpeft to the
e u-m Country, its situation is convenient favorable, with
2n°'^ muw ! caiK)n k»»d and and easy. But
thi° l ? r^n< *^P^ e ihould be attended to. It been bintt'd that
ought not to govern; but 1 think it of .fom.e importance.
jJ. [« mca ,ou ld look to those part's of t'he.country where is the
,5* portion, the c-omtnercial and opulant cities, ilhd fee
11 r , e \\»ealth,thc ftrcngth the Union, nwails-b<y
lie iU ted State.*- are tojic pi:ote£»ed, and tfce sources from
foiw ■^|? vernincnt tod raw its principal fiqjports. It will be
i,- /ut r c ofthefe is the 'uorther.ii and casern States,
wc 1J » Member*had: confuted their o\v.n intercfts, they
u J 'c cliofcn the banks of the Delaware ; but they |knew it
SATURDAY, September 12, 1739.
would not be deciding oo those generous principles, which might
e expected. They knew that there is one State not yet in the
Union, to which fueh a measure would givedifgujt.
r. Sedgwick asked if there was really any impropriety in
gent emen s consulting together, who had a uniformity of interests
upon a queltion, which it had beenfaid, was so infinitely impor
tant. My colleague, said he, has barely stated that such a con
u tat ion iias taken place, and that in consequence of it, men's
ni have been induced to run in a current. Is there any thing
wrong in this ? Let those who are determined not to consult nor
ave any communication on luch a fubjeft, determine for them
( v es. I should think myfelf loft, to that regard which I owe to
3n< * ' mm? diate constituents in particular, should I
a rtract myfelf from the contemplation ofthebenetits which would
low from knowing the feelings and sentiments of those with
whom lam to act. Instead of being an evidence of that aristo
cratic spirit which has been mentioned, it is only a proof that
men, attentive to their business had preferred that way, which
C r u*°ri . m3n have had in view. I have contemplated
t lelubjecl with great anxiety, and though I can not declare that
my loca4 situation has had no influence on rny mind, yet I will-fay
I endeavored that it-should have none. I believe that die trite
interests of the country will be beil answered by taking a pofrtion
ealtward and northward of the Sufquehanna. The, Delaware is
one extreme, the Patowmac another. But when I rcfleft how
anxious forue gentlemen are foror\e, and Come -for the -another. I am
willing io accommodate by advancing to a middle ground, to
which I hope the public mind will be reconciled. I-n fixing this
opinion I was alto influenced by the sentiment of the celebrated
Montcfquieu. He has laid it down that in a country partaking of
northern and fuuthem interests, of a poor and a produ&ive foil,
the center and the influence of government ought to incline to
that part where the former circumflanoes prevailed ; beca.ufe ne
ceftity stimulates to industry, produces habits and a fu,r.plus of
labour ; because such parts are the nurseries of soldiers and fail
oips, and the fourcesot that energy which is the best security of
the government.
The Sufquehanna in my opinion is southwest of the center of
wealth, population and resources of every kind. I would sug
gest another idea. In my view, on the principles of population,
the Sufquehanna is far beyond the center; for I do not think it
just on this fubjett to take the constitutional computation. Will
any gentleman pretend that men who are merely the fubjeft of
property or wealth should be taken into the eftirnate, that the
slaves of the country, men, who have no rights to prote&, being
deprived of them all, fhotild be taken into view in determining
the center of government ? If they are considered, gentlemen
may as well estimate the black cattle of New-England.
I would aik if it U of no importance to take a position in which
the credit ofthe government may procure those fupplics, that its
neccflities require. Will the strength and riches of the
country be to the iMrth or to the south of the Sufquehanna ? Cer
taiuly to the uorth.
It is an opinion of all the eastern States, that the climoXe of Pa
towmac, is not only unhealthy but deftru&ive to northern con
stitutions. Itrs of importance to attend to this: for let the thing
be true or falfir, rfiich is the public prepoffeflion. Vast numbers
of ea&ern adventurers have gone to the iouthcrn States, and all
have found their graves there. They have met dc&ru&ion asfoon
as they aYrived. These accounts have been spread, and .filled the
northern people with apprehension.
With regard to the temporary residence, I originally had very
little concern where it (hould be, but I believe that it the govern
ment should take a temporary Hand so central as Philadelphia, so
seducing would be the accommodations of that city, and foftrong
the interefl of that powerful State, that it would be more difficult
to remove Congreis ever from it, than from a place which is ac
knowledged to be improper for their permanent feat.
Mr. Viking observed, that he muil acknowledge himfqlfa
p-rty to the bargain, though he had no share in making it. It is,
said he, an Unexpe&ed bargain to me, though it involves the in
terests ofthe State which I represent. lam yet to learn whether
Congress arc to tickje the trout in the stream of the Codorus,
to build their sumptuous palaces on the banks of the Patowmac,
3r to admire commerce, with her expanded wings on the waters
jf the Delaware. I have on tliis occasion educated my mind to
impartiality, and have chastised its prejudices.
I copfefs to the House and to the world, that viewing this fub
jt£l with all its ckcumAances, i am in favor ®f the Patowmac.
I wish the feat olf government to be fixed there, because I think
the intercft. the honor, and the greatness of this country require
it. I look on it as the center from which those streams are to
flow, that are to animate-and invigorate the body politic. From
thence it appears to me the rays of government will most natural
ly diverge to the extremities of the Union. I declare that I look
on the Western Territory in an awful and striking point of view.
To that region the unpo'lifhed sons of the earth are flocking from
all quarters. Men to whom the prote&ion of the laws and the
corttrouling force of the government arc equally neceflary from this
great consideration I conclude that the banks of the Patowmac are
the proper station.
With refpeft to the temporary residence. The accommoda
tions which have been fnentioned operate as retffons against New-
York. It is indeed but too agreeable; its allurements are too dan
gerous ; when I look round I fee such handfomp arguments addres
sed to my feelings that my underflanding dreads their imprcflion.
Mr. Lee moved to flr.ike out the words " ea-ft bank of the Suf
quehanna" and to insert a clause to this effect, That whereas the
banks of the Patowmac united all the aforefaid advantages with
fertility of foil, salubrity of climate, &c. Resolved that the per
manent feat of government ougltf to be fixed some where on the
banks ofthe said river.
He then stated at large the comparative advantages of Patow
itiac, its great and increaling improvements, the extent of its navi
gation, its direst communication with the WefternCountry,and its
eaTy communication with the Eastern and Southern States.
The house, he said, are now to determine whether regard is to
he had to a central position—whether regard is to be had to the
people o.f the Western Territory, to the greater portion of the ter
ritory of the Union : In point of climate, it is extremely falubru
ous, in fertility it is exceeded by no country on earth. Thither
will emigrants from all quarters flock.
I afk-if this government is intended for a temporary or a lasting
one ; whethar it is to be a fleeting -vision, or to continue for ages ?
I hppe that the result will proclaim that the government iscalcula
ted for perpetuity, and that the common interests of the country
have been consulted. If that is done, the government will be le
movedto the Patowmac ; if not, we shall stop short of it ; and
what will be the confcquenGe ? I am averse to found alarms, or
introduce terrors into theihoufe ;ibut if they are well founded, I
think it my duty. It is well known with what difficulty the
Copftitution was adopted by the .State of Virginia. It was then
-feid that there would be corffederacie9 of the States East of Penn
sylvania* which would deftrov the Southern States. That they
would unite their councils in difcufling questions relative to their
particular interests, and the Southern States would be tUfregarded.
To these suspicions it was answered, no ! It was contended that
the magnanimous policy arising from mutual interests 2nd com
\_PitbliJbed (jti Wediiefday arid Saturday .J
mon dangers would unite all the States, and make them pursue
objcfts of general good. But if U Ihould be found that there are
such confederacies as were predicted, that the Northern States do
consult their partial interests, and form combinations to fuppoit
them, without regarding their South ren brethren, they will be a
larmed, and the faith of all south of the Patowmac will be shaken.
It will be (hewn.to them, that what was predicted by the enemies
to the Constitution has come to pass, that the Northern States liave
not even waited till the Government was organized, but arc facri
ficing the Southern people to their own interests.
Let the feat be fixed where it will, Virginia has not fol.icited
Congress to place its feet in her State. She only contends that the
interests of the Southern and Western country Ihould be consult
ed. And I declare, that these interests will be facrificed if Con
£refs fixes on any place but the Patowrriac. The greater part of
Virginia is distant from that river. Man-y parts are not nearer
than New-Jei fey. She wishes not co have the feat on the Patow
mac but for the general good. It is not for the benefit of that
State, but the Union.
Mr. Laurance said it is improper and imneceffary to hold out
terrors to the fancy of members. The true way to convince them
is to address their understanding, 1 -am fnr« there is no danger
ous confederacy which the gentleman has talked of. I believe
that the conduct of the .Northern States will bear the striCtest scru
tiny; that if probed to the bottom it,will be found fair and candid.
I remember in the debate upon the tonnage bill a gentleman from
Virginia observed that could the moderate and equal policy pfthat
day's proceeding have been forefeen in the Convention of Virgin
ia, it would have obviated many objections that were there pro
duced againit the Constitution.
In conducting the bulinefs before us, I trufl. that gentlemen will
find no cause eventually to entertain different fentiraents from what
he then delivered.
Mr. Madison: I admit that oft a former occasion I applied
the remark quoted by the gentleman from New-York ; but I now
as veTily believe, that had a Prophet darted up in that Convention,
and foretold the proceedings of this day, Virginia would not now
be a party to this Constitution. A motion being made for riling.
Mr. SiDcwieK : I hope the committee will not rife. Will it
be contended, that the majority shall not govern; and (hall the
minority because they cast not carry their points, accuse the House
of want of candor ? Are we to be told that an important State
would not have joined the Union had they known what would
have been the proceedings of this House. Gentlemen have brought
forward this business themselves : They have precipitated the
House into it. We prayed, said he, We supplicated for time ; and
now gentlemen from some causes not explained, wish to postpone
the matter, in order to have time to deliberate. I believe that
a deliberation of fix weeks would not alter airngle opinion, and
it is not proper to consume the public timeofelefsly.
Mr. Mao;isjon contended for a poftponernem a* a right. De
bate ought not to be precluded, said he. The minority certainly
are to be governed bj the majority, butthey claim a right to bring
forward all those fads and arguments which can have a*iy poflible
influence. It is unuiual to pcefjs for a decision an occasions like
these, after a partial diCotiliioii of a Tingle day. Questions of less
magnitude has occupied weeks. This business prefects an afpeCk ;
it marks a genius in this body, which will cootradiCt the expecta
tions of its warmest friend*. I wiftx to make many observations
for whiph there is not now an opportunity. I wish to fpeaJc to
gentlemen who wiU open their ears ; and nottp Client majorities,
who bear down every thing before them. I hope another day to
experience a cooler and more favorable temper.
Mr. Ames : I remember, said he, that when this futijeCt cac>e
before the House the other day, when we solicited for delay, it
was observed that she neceflities of the Union required an imme
diate decision—that it would take up but little time—that the pro
per centre might be easily ascertained—that this would depend
on geographical calculation, and that little dircuflion would be ne
cessary. Now, when circumstances appeaTto be changed—when
the calculation is made—when the House are ready to vote, gen
tlemen come forward and pretend that they want time. I hope
the queftiou will be now decided. While I am up I would ob
feive that I do not entertain a doubt of the patriotism and good
intention® of the gentlemen from Virginia. I believe however,
that their judgments are influenced by tbeir wilhes, for they fee«n
to be engaged with a degree of eagtrnefs whith none else appear
to feel. The very language of their motion declares this. They
seem to think the banks of Patowto&c a paradise, and that iiver a
Euphrates. I have been told it is a fine spot—and I (interely *rifh
those bleflings may ever reside there.
Mr. Burke : The Northern States have had a fortnight to ma
nage this matter, and will .not now allow the Southern a day.
What is the conduCt of gentlemen ? A league has been formed
between the Northern States and Pennsylvania. [Here Mr. FitE
firaons contradicted him.} This morning furnimed the firft in
formation of it. 1 want information. I call on gentlemen for
the honor of the House to give more time.
The qucftion pn rising was carried.
Friday, September 4.
Mr. ScOtt, being called on, said, he had no to give
his sentiments. The refolvfc which I laid on the table has been
honored by & majority of the House. It contains such principles
as I believe ought to govern in the settlement of this grand ques
tion. Whether the place which hai been moved for is the right
one, is a matter yet to be decided.
Taking the Atlantic coast for a guide, the Sufquehanna involves
undoubtedly the center of wealth, population and territory-
All that has been said of the western territory has not induced me
to wish that all that immense country should be brought into
view. The resolution holds out an idea that the Atlantic States
fliouldgo as near that country as their own convenience would al
low. I his is all I expeCt or hope for. lam convinced that to
go farther weft than this point of convenience, would be to injure
the Western Territory itfelf. The question feem.s to lie between
the Sufquehanna and Pawtomac. The center which I contemplate
J *es between them, at nearly equal distances, but rather nearer
the latter. lam pretty well acquainted with both rivers.
He then gave a geographical description of those rivers, which
to avoid any poflible errors, we shall not attempt to trace. The
description related to their several advantages of communication
with the Western Territory. In his calculation he considered
Pittsburgh as the key of that Territory ; and that the advantages
ol one river of the other mulVbe determined, by its relation to the
place. Therefultof his detail was a concluGon clearly in favor of
the Patowmac. To do justice to the committee, he said, I mnft
declare that there is no comparison between the advantages of one
communication and the other, with respeCt to the Ohio Country.
Patowmac will no doubt, one day, be a' very important channel
into thqfe regions.
He concluded by observing, that though he thought that the
Patowmac was nearer that centre of communication between the
Atlantic and the Ohio, than the Sufquehanna, as there was no
prospeCt ol a decision in favor of the former, he should give his
vote for the Sufquehanna. In this situation, as he was a native of
Pennsylvania, there was a certain duty which he owed to his coun
try. and which he should now perform.I MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7.
The Ayes and Noes upon the important propofitioris refpe&ing
the permanent residence of Congress.
On Mr. Lll's motion for hifitrting the Patowmac.
AYES. Mejjrs Baldwin, Bland, Brown, Burke, Carrol, fcoles,
Corttee, Gale, Griffin, Jackson, Lee, Madison, Matthews, Moore,
Page, Parker, Smith, (S. C.) Stone, Sumpter, Tucker, Vining. 21.
NOES. Mejfrs Ames, Benfon, Boudinot, Cadwalader, Clymer,
Fitzfimons, Floyd, Foster, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Grout, Hart
ley, Hathorn, Laurance, Livermore, Muhlenberg, Partridge, Van
Ranfellaer, Scott, Scney, Sherman, Sylvester, Sinnickfon, Smith,
(M.) Thatcher, Trumbull, Wadfworth, Wynkoop. 29.
On Mr. Vlnl n g'j motionff t inferring Delaware at large.
AYES. Mejfrs. Baldwin, Bland, Boudinot, Burke, Cadwala
der, Coles, Cpntee, Griffin, Jackson, Lee, Madison, Matthews,
Moore, Page, Parker, Sinnickfon, Smith, (S. C.) Sumpter,
Vining. 19.
NOES. Mejfn. Ames, Benfon, Brown, Carroll, Clymer,
Fitzfimons, Floyd, Foster, Gale, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue,
Qfput, Hartley, Hathorn, Heifter, Laurance, Livermore, Muh
lenberg, Patridge, Van Ranfellear, Scott, Seney, Sherman, Sil
vester, Smith, (M.) Stone, Thatcher, Trumbull, Tucker, Wadf
worth, Wynkoop. 32.
On Mr. Boudinot'j moving to insert Patowmac y Sufquehanna and
Delaware.
AYES. Mejjrs. Baldwin, Bland, Boudinot, Brown, Burke,
Cadwallader, Carroll, Coles, Contee, Griffin, Jackson, Lee,
Madison, Matthews, Moore, Page, Parker, Sinnickfon, Smith,
(S. G.) Stone, Sumpter, Tucker, Vining. 23.
NOES. Mejjrs. Ames, Benfon, Clymer, Fitzfimons, Floyd,
Foster, Gale, Gerry, Goodhue, Gilman, Grout, Hartley,Hathorn,
Heifter,Laurance,Livermore, Muhlenberg,Partridge, Van Ranfel
lear, Scott, Seney, Sherman, Silvester, Smith, (M.) Thatcher,
Trumbull, Wadfworth, Wynkoop. 28.
Mr. Boudinot proposed to inferl the banks of the Delaware,
not more than eight miles above or below the lower falls.
AYES. Mejjrs. Boudinot, Cadwallader, Gerry, Sinnickfon. 4.
NOES. Mejfrs. Ames, Baldwin, Benfon, Bland, Brown,
Burke, Carroll, Clymer, Coles, Contee, Fitzfimons, Floyd, Foster,
Gale, Gilman, Goodhue, Griffin, Grout, Hartley, Hathorn,
Heifter, Jackson, Laurance, Lee, Livermore, Madison, Matthews,
Moore, Muhlenberg, Page, Parker, Patridge, Van Ranfellaer,
Scott, Seney, Sherman, Silvester, Smith, (M.) Smith, {S. C.) Stone,
Sumpter, Thatcher, Trumbull,Tucker, Wadfworth, Wynkook.46.
Mr. Stone moved toJlrike out the word M eafl," so that the resolution
would read, on the banks, (3c. This was carried.
AYES. Mejfrs. Baldwin, Bland, Boudinot, Biown, Burke,
Cad wallader, Carroll, Coles, Contee* Gale, CrifHn, Jackson, Lee,
Madison, Matthews, Moore, Page, Parker, Seney, Sinnickfon,
Smith, (M.) Smith, (S. C.) Stone, Sumpter, Tucker, Vining. 26.
NOES. Mejjrs. Ames, Benfon, Clymer, Fitzfimons, Floyd,
Foster, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Grout, Hartley, Hathorn,
Heifter, Laurance, Livermore, Muhlenberg, Partridge* Van
Ranfellaer, Stone, Sherman, Silvester, Thatcher, Trumbull,
Wadfworth, Wynkoop. 25.
Mr. Lee proposed to add after " Pennfylvanid" or Maryland
AYES. Mejjrs. Baldwin, Bland, Boudinot, Brown, Burke,
Cadwallader, Carroll, Coles, Contee, Gale, Griffin, Jackson, Lee,
Madison, Matthews, Moore, Page, Parker, Stone, Sinnickfon,
Smith,(M.) Smith, (S. C.) Sumpter, Tucker, Vining. 25.
NOES. Mejfrs. Ames, Benfon, Clymer, Fitzfimons, Floyd,
Foster, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Grout, Hartley, Hathorn, Heif
ter, Laurance, Livermore, Muhlenberg,Patridge,Ranfellear, Scots,
Scney, Sherman, Silvester, Thatcher, Trumbull,
Wynkoop. 26.
Mr. Vining moved to insert WilrrtingtOn as the temporary residence.
AYES. Mejjrs. Baldwin, Bland, Boudinot, Brown, Burke,
Cadwallader, Carroll, Coles, Contee, Gale, Griflin, Jackson,
Lee, Madison, Matthews, Moore, Page, Parker, Sinnickfon,
Sumpter, Vining. 21.
NOES- Mejfrs. Ames, Benfon, Clymer, Fitzfimons, Floyd,
Foster, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Grout, Hartley, Hathorn,
Heifter, Laurance,Livermore, Muhlenberg, Partridge, Ranfellaer,
Scott, Seney, Sherman, Silvester, Smith, (M.) Smith, (S. C.) Stone,
Thatcher, Trumbull, Tucker, Wadfworth, Wynkoop. 30.
Mr. Parker, proposed Philadelphia as the temporary residence.
AYES. Mejjrs. Baldwin, Boudinot, Brown, Burke, Cadwal
lader, Carroll, Coles, Contee, Gale, Griffin, Heifter, Jackson,
Madison, Matthews, Moore, Page, Parker, Sinnickfon,
Stone, Sumpter, Vining. 22.
NOES. Mejjrs. Ames, Benfon, Bland, Clymer, Fitzfimons,
Floyd, Foster, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Grout, Hartley, Ha
thorn, Laurance, Livermore, Muhlenberg, Patridge, Ranfellaer,
Scott, Seney, Sherman, Sylvester, Smith, (M.) Smith, (S. C.)
Thatcher, Trumbull, Tucker, Wadfworth, Wynkoop. 29.
Mr. Gale offered a motion, the fubflance of which was, to make the
residence of Congress on the Sufquehanna conditional, by pro
viding that the Legislatures of Maryland, and Pennfylvama, Jhould
open the Navigation of the river Sufquehanna.
AYES. Mejfrs. Baldwin, Boudinot, Brown, Burke, Cadwal
iader, Carroll, Coles, Contee, Gale, Jackson, Lee, Madison,
Matthews, Moore, Page, Parker, Seney, Sinnickfon, Smith, (M.j
Smith, (S. C.) Stone, Sumpter, Tucker, Vining. 24.
NOES. Mejfrs. Ames, Benfon, Clymer, Fitzfimons, Tloyd,
Foster, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Grout, Hartley, Hathorn,
Heifter, I.aurance, Livermore, Muhlenberg, Partridge, Ranfellaerj
Scott, Sherman, Silvester, Thatcher, Trumbull, Wad worth'
Wynkoop. 2,5.
The quejlion was then put on the whole propoJitian,avd the yeas and nays
being calledfor, it was carried in the ajji, native.
A\ KS. Mejfrs Ames, Benfon, Clymer, Fitzfimons, Floyd,
Foster, Gale, Gilman, Goodhue, Grout, Hartley, Hathorn,
Heifter, Laurance, Livermore, Muhlenberg, Partridge, Ranfellaer
Scott, Seney, Sherman, Silvester, Smith, (M.) Stone, Thatcher,
Trumbull, Wadfworth, Wynkoop. 28.
NOES. Mejfrs. Baldwin, Boudinot, Brown, Burke, Cadwal
lader, Carroll. Coles, Contee, Gerry, Jackson, Lee, Madison,
Matthews, Moore, Page, Parker, Sinnickfon, Smith, (S. C.) Sump
ter, Tucker, Vining. 21.
WEDNESDAY, SEl'f. 9.
Mr. Goods ue, of the committee appointed to
rake into consideration sundry memorials and
petitions of the merchants, and citizens of the
State of Rhode Island, and the memorial of Dr.
Williamfon in behalf of the citizens of North-Ca
rolina, brought in a bill to fufpen 1 the operation
of so much of the tonnage law, as fubjeCls the peo
ple of those States to the alien tonnage duty.
Read tlie firlt time.
It was moved that that part of The President's
late meflage, which refers to the troops now in
the service of the United States, be refered to a
special committee—which being agreed to, Mertrs
Boudinot, Trumbull, and Burke, were appointed.
In committee of the whole on the Judiciary bill.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
Some progress was made in the difcuflion al
terations in ieyeral of the fecftions as to the places
of holding the diftridl courts took place—havin^
proceeded as far aS the tenth feition, the com
mittee rose.
A meflage was received from the Senate, re
turning several bills, viz. The bill for allowing
coinpenfations to The President and Vice Presi
dent—The Senate infill on their amendment to
this bill, andrequell a conference with the House
upon the fubjec't—having appointed managers on
their part, Mr. King, Mr. Izard, and Mr. Morris.
The bill for allowing coinpenfations to the mem
bers and officers of the two Houses—the Senate
concur in the proposal of the House for a confer
ence 011 the fubje»ft of disagreement refpedling
this bill—and appointed conferees oil their part.
The bill for establishing the salaries of the offi
cers in the executive departments—the Senate re
cede from some of their amendments to this bill,
and infill upon others.
The House proceeded to the consideration of
the foregoing.
It was moved that conferees on the part of the
House be appointed agreeable to the request of the
Senate—which motion being agreed to, Mr. Bald
win, Mr. Livermore, and Mr. Goodhue, were ap
pointed.
In the bill for establishing the salaries, the Se
nate infill on their amendment, to raise the salary
of the Treasurer from 1600 to 2000 dollars. It
was moved that the House recede from their disa
greement. This was carried in the affirmative—
so the Treasurer's falaryis 2000 dollars.
The Senate infill on their amendment for ftrik
ingoff joo dollars from the salary of the Gover
norof the Western Territory.
The House receded from their disagreement
to this also. So the salary of the Governor of the
Western Territory, to include the Superinten
dency of Indian affairs, is 2000 dollars.
The report of the committee on the letter from
the Poll Mailer General was read—and adopted
by the House.
The motion laid on the table yesterday by Mr.
Gerry, was taken up, and after a few obl'ervations
refered to afeletf: committee, conlilling of Meff'rs
Stone, Parker, and Griffin.
The House then adjourned.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 10.
The enrolled bills for eftablifliing the salaries
of the executive officers, and to provide for the
fafe keeping of the atfls, records, and great seal
of the United States, having been examined by
the committee, and reported correcfl, were signed
by the Speaker.
( Boudinot presented a petition from the
inhabitants of the county of Eflex, in New-Jersey,
praying that Perth Amboy may be the place for
holding the diftridt courts in that State. Laid
on the table.
The bill for suspending the operation of part
of the tonnage act read a second time, and or -
deredto be engrossed for a third reading.
Mr. Shf.rman of the committee of conference
reported that a conference with the committee of
the Senate had taken place, upon the fubjedt of
difcriminationin the pay of the two Houses, pro
posed as an amendment to the salary bill, and in
iifted on by the Senate. This report was in sub
stance, That they had come to no precise agree
ment—that the Senate could not be induced to re
cede from their amendment—but by way of corn,
promise, the committee on the part of the Senate
proposed, that the compensation provided for by
the present bill should be limited to seven years
the laftof which the compensation of the Senate
to be at 7 dollars—Or, they proposed that the
House should pass a law providing for their own
compensation, without including the Senate.
It was moved that the House should recede from
their disagreement, and concur with the Senate
in their amendment, with an amendment.
This wasoppofed by Mr. Jackson, Mr. White
Mr. Burke, Mr. Boudinot, Mr. Thatcher, and Mr'.
Tucker—and supported by Mr. Benfon, Mr. Mad
ison, Mr. Lee, Mr. Gerry, Mr. Fitzfimous, Mr.
Laurance, Mr. Ames, and Mr. Sherman.
Very little, that was new, occured in the course
of the observations made—and on the motion for
the report of the committee's lying on the table,
being loft, it was moved that the main question
for concuring with the Senate be put, the Ayes
and Noes were called, and are as follows •
AYES.
Mctf'-j Ames, Baldwin, Benfon, Brown, Cad
wallader, Clymer, Fitzfimons, Gale, Gerry, Grif
fin, Hartley, Huntington, Laurance, Lee, Liver
more, Madison, Moore, Muhlenberg, Scot, Slier
man, Smith, (S. C.) Trumbull, Vining,Wynkoop.
24- NOES. 1
Mtffrs Bland, Boudinot, Burke, Carrol, Coles
Contee, Floyd, Foster, Gilman, Goodhue, Grout!
Hatliorn, Heilter, Jackson, Matthews, Page, Par
s. 1 ' artl Ranfellear, Schureman, Seney,
bilvefter,Siiinickfon, Smith, (M.) Stone, Sumpt
er, 1 hatcher. Tucker, White. 29.
The committee on the petition of the public
creditors, and other citizens of Philadelphia, re
ported, that the petition deserved the attentive
consideration ofCongrefs; but as the present fef
-11011 was so short, and it was necessary to dispatch
much important bufmefs now before Conorefs
it became impracticable to give the fubjetftf this
session the attention which it merited rt,
i el ' ?[^ übnl . ,tted a resolution tothefnli
effect 1 hat it highly concerns the h 0! , n ° Wln S
interest of the United States to make t an 4
and effectual provision in favor of the lZ
ditors of the Union, and that the Hnnf Cl ' e '
early rcion, uka Urn fubj.ft i„ J*™"
This report was laid 011 the table.
Mr. Boudinot then moved, that a com„ •
be appointed to bring in a bill to eftabSrt
compensations of themembers and the off
both lioufes, for one year. crs of
It being suggested by the Speaker that it would
be proper to delay this matter till the SenavT
been informed of the vote of the House the!
j"™? ° ,hc ,i,blc ' Th ™"" H»S:
I— '
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER, If.
The engrofftd bill for suspending the operation of part »f ,|»
y;„v,7 y d^ h,rd ume - thc
It was then parted to be enabled.
Mr. Jlu h kf. moved that the House should recorder the™,
of yesterday, not to recede from their disagreement tothcirrj,
ment proposed by the Senate to the bill for allowing conw'
tions to the Members and officers of botn Houses
Mr. M a 01 so n fuppofingth.t the bill was loft by the vote of vi
wlrfh' q r"' r | ! c whether 't was morder toreconfiier thai votc : o ,
whether such a vote could be said to restore the bill. Theaffi™
ative Of this enquiry, he conceived, involved many difficult
It would extend to repealing the laws, as well as to'revivmuL
withoutgoing through those previous formalities, which art rt
quired by the Constitution. "
th^, S K M R ", A u' Mr , G ' RR r T ' 3nd Mr ' t-AD«ANCE,obfcrv t d
r, C °w not r COl ! f ' dcrtd as lost ' is tht """ft had A.
retted the Clcik to ioform the Senate of what had uken plact
Xk i??f e j'"S ad J ourncd . ,h e' r opinion could not be known
I he bill and the vote were (till in po(feffion of the House ■ rot
could there be a doubt that the law, if now completed by a'cor
turrtnee in the amendment of the Senate, would not be an valid
w had been enabled.
Itbeing doubted whether the motion was in order,the Speaker
gave his opinion that it was Ariftly so j and appcaUngtotbeHouft
they confirmed his determination.
Mr. Burke's motion for a reconsideration beingpu!, andtbe
ayes and noes called, they are as follow :
AYES.
Mejjrs. Ames, Baldwin, Benfon, Boudinot, Brown, Burke,
Cadwallader, Carioll, Clymer, Fitzfimoos, Gale, Gerry, Grrf.
fin, Hartley Huntington, Uurance, Lee, Livermore, Midifoo,
5? oor t' Muhlenberg, Page, Scott, Sherman, Smith, (S. Cj
1 rumbull, \ ining, Wadfworth, Wynkoop. 29.
„ , NOES.
iirjjTS. Bland, Coles, Contee,Floyd, Fofler, Gilman, Goodbue,
Grout, Hathorn, Heiftcr, Jackson, Matthews, Parker, Partridgr,
Ranlellacr, Schureman, Sency, Sylvester, Sinnickfon,Smith,(M.)
Stone, Sumpter, Thatcher, Tucker, White. 2j.
Majority for reconsidering 4.
On the question for receding from the disagreement to thea
amendment of the Senate, and to agree thereto with their propot
cd amendment—The ayes and noes being called, areasfoltow:
AYES -
Afejjrs Ames, Baldwin, Benfon, Boudinot, Brown, Burke,
Cadwallader, Carroll, Clymer, Fitzfimons, Gale, Gerry, Grif
fon, Hartley, Huntington, Laurancc, Lee, Livermore, Madi/on,
Moore, Muhlenberg, Scott, Sherman, Smith, (S. C.J Trumbull,
Vining, Wadfworth, Wynkoop. 28.
NOES. Mejfrs. Blana, Coles, Contee, Floyd, fofter, Gilman,
Goodhue, Grout, Hathorne, HeifTer, Jackson, Matthews, Page,
Pai ker, Patridge, Seney, Schureman,Sylvefter, Sinnickfon, Smith,
(M.) Stone,Sumpter, Ranfellaer, Thatcher, Tucker, White. 26.
This motion being determined in the affirmative saved the bill.
In Committee of the whole on the bill for establishing judicial
courts.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
The committee proceeded in the difcuflion as far as die 16th
feflion, they thenrofc, and the House adjourned.
EUROPEAN ACCOUNTS, BY THE LAST ARRIVALS.
TAR is, JUNE 29. The people have at last car
ried their point. The commotions were men
tioned in our last ; the dread of what mightfoi
low the provinces, the patriotic conduct of the
soldiers, and above all, the calm determined
firmnefe of the Commons, have overset all the
arbitrary plans concerted at Marli, the intrigues
of the Nobles, and the insidious manoeuvres of
the Hierarchy. The minorty of the Nobles, af
ter exerting rheir last efforts and entering amoft
spirited protest, signed by 66 Members, unW
at lenghth with the National Aflembly on Thurs
day, to the number of 48, were followed by
others on the succeeding days. A great body
the Clergy had already joined, but nearly an
equal number ftillperfifted, headed by the Arch
bishop of Paris, and the Cardinal de la Rochefou
calt, Archbiftiop of Rouen. A letter from the
King, however, put an end to this perfeveranct,
and the remainder of the Clergy, as well as"i e
Nobles, acceded to the union on Saturday aftel
- The instant this great event took pl 3ce
an immense multitude of persons of all ranks,
many even of the most refpedtable condition,
who had constantly surrounded the Hall, and 3
its avenues for several days, to protect tlicit R e "
prefentatives, flocked to the Palace, and fill 11 1?
the courts, terrace, &c. made the air refoun
with their acclamations The King and Queen
appeared in a balcony, where they remame a
quarter of an hour to receive the blessings an
applauses of their fubjetfts. His Majesty lC j
into tears at the fight, and seemed to feel, in 3
its force, the joy, the coijifort, the glory of
ing beloved. Under such happy auspices, t e
is little fear of every thing doing well, .
pecially as even the inftrud:ions of the No 11 J
are decidedly in favor of a new Conft ltutl
previous to their granting pecuniary aid ;
voting by a plurality of the whole and not 5
ders, seems to be the natural consequence 0
great vidtory of the Commons ; it i s ' U PP°there vill be another Royal Seifions to-morrow,
(Tuesday) to annul the proceedings at thelalt,
and finally to put the great national business in
trail). The Aflembly was adjourned to that day,
on the motion of M.Bailly, the Prelident of the
Commons, who observed, that so great an event
as the happy union of the Stares General, called
for a momentary suspension of all other business,
and merited an interval for congratulations and
rejoicings.
The following is a lift of the patriotic Nobles
who made the firft step, and whose names de
serve to be held up to the friends of liberty
throughout Europe.
Le Due d'Orleans, Le Due d'Aiguillon, Dan
dre, Le Marquis de Lezay-Marzia, Le Vicomte
de Toulongeon, Le Comte de Crillon, Le Vi
comte de Beauharnois, Le Pheline, Le Vicomte
Defandrouns, Le Marquis de laCofte, LeCompte
de Caftellane, Le Marquis de Blacons, Le Mar
quis de Langon, Le Comte de la Blache, Le
Comte de Antoine d'Agoult, Le Comte de Virieux,
Le Comte de Morge, Le Baron de Chalion, Le
Comte Marzanne, De Burle, D'Eymar, D<
Nemperre de Champagny, De Pres le Greflier,
Le Marquis de Biancourt, D'Aguefieau, Freteauj
Le Comte de le Touche, Le Comte de Montmo
rency, Le Chevalier de Maulette, Le Comte de
Clermont-Tonnere, Le Due de la Rochefoucauld
Le Comte de Luzignan, Dionis du Sejour, Du
pert, Le Marquis de Montefquiou-Fezenzac, Al
exandrede Lameth, Le Marquis de la Tour-Mau
bourg, Le Marquis de Sillery, Le Baron d'Harm
bure, Le Due de Tuynes, Le Marquis de Len
cofne, Le Baron de Menou, Le Comte de Telle,
•with three others.
In the late eminent crisis of public affairs, the
dragoons,and all the national troops in the neigh
borhood of Paris, loudly declared, that they
would neither draw a sword, nor fire a mufquet
against their countrymen.
The day after the French guards refufed to fire
on the people, they were all ordered to be con
fined to their quarters, both at Paris and Ver
sailles, excepting those on duty. They were
not, however, restrained by the orders of their
officers, but declaring that they had no inten
tion to be turbulent or desert, left their barraks,
and for two succeeding days amused themselves
in walking about the streets, &c. where they
were regaled and applauded by their fellow
citizens. At the palace Royal, the head-quar
ters of liberty, the coffee-houfes were filled with
them, every body striving who should be firft to
entertain them. Judge what an effect all this
niuft have produced at Court, and what was to
be expe<sJed in the Provinces, had the Comte
d'Artois and his violence prevailed.
London, july 4. The French AmbafTador
has had a second interview with Mr. Pitt, on the
fubjeft of the present diftrefles of the French
nation, occasioned by the great scarcity of corn
and flour.
There are I 5,000 troops in Paris, Versailles,
and its neighbourhood. And yet, very much to
the astonishment and difcomfiture of the court,
they could not get a regiment to draw a trigger.
Extract of a letter from Paris, June 26.
" A Member of the National Afleinbly moved
lately, that the benches on which they fate should have
ticks put to them, for the greater conveniency of
the gentlemen who are obliged to occupy them
for so many hours i " Is it to be thought," said
he, on the motion being opposed, " that the
King thinks his grandeur confiftsin being seated
on an elevated throne, while his fubje<fts are
crawling at his feet. These marks of servility
might have pleased Louis XIV, whose heart was
spoiled by the base adulation of his courtiers,
who demeaned themielves to the condition of
menial servants ; but they would dishonor Louis
XVI, and should not be fuffered to profane the
Timph of Liberty. Let all due refpetft be paid to
the Sovereign, but let us not forget what is due
to our own dignity, as men, as Representatives
ofthe Majefly of the People of trance, of whom the
Monarch is in reality no more than the molt dif
"nguifhed individual.'' Such language from the
mouth of a Frenchman, and in Paris, you will
think incredible : But had you been for even a
frort space 0 f ti me accustomed to hear the ex
preflions hourly made use of in cofFee-lioufes,
private societies, and 011 the public walks, you
would readily believe it. One party maintains,
or initance, and openly avows it, that the No
ihty, sooner than relinquish their privileges,
1111 niafh their hands in the blood of the rabble. While
JL °ther as openly declares, that the National
1 ffy flail be cemented with the blood of the No
w- And yet, notwithstanding all this, there
31 e w ho think it not unprobable that this
momentuous business will terminate—a la Fran
"'/•—in a song—vox, vox, et pretsrea nihil! It
u -, however, be owned, that it wears a very
'"nous afpecft."
" T} XtrC a etter f rGm Paris, June 29.
ri v. States-General have at last come to a
in? n t j U ? c ' ei^anc^n S- The Nobility and Clergy
U e * e Tiers Etat on Saturday, and this Au
felve K ly now seriously occupy them
biv! S i. a 1 l^e i m portant objects for which they
a>e been called together."
By adviccs received in town from Abo, in Sweden, dated
May 29, we are informed, that on the preceding day a courier
passed through that place on his way to Stockholm, from the fron
tiers, with the news of an a&ion having taken place between the
Rufliansand Swedes* in which the former had five hundred kil
led on the spot; the Swedes loft only 19. A baggage magazine
belonging to the Ruflians was burnt.
THE RURAL RETREAT.
O, WHAT a charming thing and pretty,
To have a noble, Federal City!
Surpafling in few years to come,
All that history fays of Rome ;
That ancient feat of arts and wars,
The mother of eternal jars !
Not near old oceans' margin built,
Where blood by hogftieads may be spilt;
Where {hips which vomit smoke and fire,
May force the people to retire ;
May set a scampering our patricians,
Curfmg all maritime portions.
Besides, all sea port towns, we know,
The floods of horrid vice o'erflow ;
There business, noise, and diflipation,
Diftraft the rulers of the nation !
I here morn, and noon, and midnight revels,
With a long lift of Syren devils—
Balls, treats, and visits—arts cajoling,
Will set their wits and senses rolling,
Till on the rocks of tempting beauty,
They shipwreck honor, truth, and duty.
No, let us to the woods repair,
For peace and innocence dwell there :
There, in the times beyond the flood,
When men were frugal, wife, and good,
Beneath an oak, or beechen ftia^e,
The best of human laws were made :
They wanted then no central station—
Their Federal Hall the whole Creation.
Then let us to the woods repair,
And build a Federal City there,
Where nature never fails to please,
In hills and dales, and shrubs and trees ;
Where ancient Sages gather'd knowlege',
Without the aid of church or college.
Secluded from the noisy hive,
Who business, arts and pleasure drive.
14 In the cool grot and mofly cell,"
Where truth and inspiration dwell,
Without a buzzing in our ears,
Of speculator's hopes and fears,
What Laws and Statutes (hall be made !
To help the basket making trade ;
To regulate the country roads,
And clear the neighbourhood of toads ;
To regulate the time for hatching
Hens eggs—and {had, and oyster-catching f
What time is best to ring the {wine,
And other bus'nefs in that line—
To bind in leagues of fix'd opinion,
1 he States who form this great dominion.
MR. FENNO,
IN the Gazette of the United States of Wednes
day last, there appeared some ftriAures on the ex
tracts of two letters publiflied in the Daily Gazette,
of 24th and 31ft of August. I lhall not pretend to
follow that writer through his long performance,
teeming with words, but sterile in ideas. Neither
shall I enter into a critical examination of his ltate
of facts, asl conceive it altogether alien to the pres
ent purpofe,whether this,or that,or the other State
formerly gave its delegates in Congress, four,
five, or fix dollars a day : The question is whe
ther the lum which has been agreed to by a ma
jority of the House of Representatives is too
much ? I think it is not, and I thinkmyfelf toler
ably fafe in coinciding in opinion with so respec
table characters as formed the majority on that
occasion. However every man has a right to judge,
but no man has a right to impeach the motives of
those who openly avow their sentiments, and in
that avowal make an appeal to the decent and
uninfluenced tribunal of the public :—Not to be
sure, to be villified and abused, but to have an
impartial decision upon their conduct. To charge
men thus circumltanced with designing views,
unfriendly to the truth, and the public interest,
indicates a mind totally insensible to delicacy or
honor. I am wholly uncertain who the letter
writers are —I thought there was weight,and can
dor in their observations :—And he must be a
wifacre indeed, who can suppose that any per
son, who had the least regard to his own reputa
tion, would, in a public paper, utter designedly
a known falfehood. I believe the letter writers
supposed the relation they gave was true. And
true it is for ought that appears to the contrary.
But this laconic animadverter alks, " how the
wonderful logician knows that Congress is to set
but two or three months in a year >" It is sup
posed that the public business will not require a
longer time. And those letter writers justly sup
pose that Congress will not needlessly prolong
their sessions. All the difference that I can fee is
this—The animadverter thinks that Congress may
set eight or nine months, in which cafe the ex
pence to the public at four dollars a day, will be
just double what it will at fix dollars a day for
three months. The truth is, that four dollars a
day will keep the new, as it did the old Congress,
always in fell ion,—a desirable objett with fovie.
Every man makes an estimate of what he
thinks his public Services ought to be compensated
at. And till mankind are 101 lto all sense of pub
lic infamy, that compensation will always be
within defenfible and jult limits. Ihe words
" ariflocratic," " small fortunes," " nabobs," &c.
convey a very obvious meaning—but are here
applied with a very ill grace. It is however, too
much to be feared, thatperfons who have no pre
tentions from their abilities, to the public favor,
will find their account in such popular canting.
C I V I s.
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER 12.
The President of the United States hasbeen pleased to nomi
nate, and by and with the advice and confcnt of the Senate to ap
point the Hon. Alexander Hamilton, of N-'w-York, Secre
tary of the Treasury. And Hon. Nicholas Eveleich, of S.
Caiolifta, Comptroller of the Treasury.
On Tuesday last, being the firft public levee at the President's,
since his mother's decease was known in this city, feverai gentle
men of the two Houses of Congress, and other relpe&able person
attended it, in American mourning* This silent mark of refpeft,
flowing spontaneously from the hearts of freemen fympathizmg
with him 111 this domeflic misfortune, manifefts sentiments and
emotions which no language can express in a manner so unequivo
cal and delicate.
The late interesting debates of an honorable aflembly, upon the
fubiefl of a permanent residence, have given rife to a variety of
sensations and opinions : Some have applauded, and others con
demned : Combinations have been talked ofj and the conduct of
the affociators hajfceen reprehended—with how mtich justice wc
will not pretend to determine : A more Southern fittiation than
the Sufquehanna, would never have been agreeable to the Eastern
and Northern States—and it may be fairly questioned, whether
the read interest of the Southern States will be eventually promo
ted by taking a position so far South as that.
Emigrations are from the North to the Scuth. What does this
prove, but that the excess of population is in the foi mer. The
truth is, this excess must swarm, and the Southern regions will al
ways afford room, and never be full. Should acceflion from the
Northward failj it is pretty evident they would in time be depo
pulated.
Extrad of a letter from the State of Rhode-IJland,
dated, September 4, 1 789.
" The federalifts, in this State form a class of
citizens more important in a national view than
is generally imagined. They are principally
merchants, and the circumstances of our com
merce require the greatest enterprize and the
closest calculation. As our staple is inconsidera
ble we must have recourfeto a circuitous kind of
traffic. It is evident we must find employment for
we cannot submit to perilh, while objecfls of a
ny kind present themselves which can afford sub
sistence. Now it is evident if Congress (hut us
out from a participation of the advantages re
sulting from the new government, we (hall be
compeled into a line of bufihefs that will injure
the interests of the United States. Nothing of
this kind is atprefent dreamed of.—But I will not
be answerable what turn the imagination of peo
ple will take. It is well known that our mer
chants were formerly celebrared for their skill
in Imuggling. They have not totally forgot the
sweets of their former pra<ftice. We lie between
two States of an extensive sea coast, inhabitted
by people who are not enemies to illicit gains.
Should we be deprived of lawful admission into
thole States on equal terms with the other citizens
of the Union, our necessities will drive us to ex
pedients which we now reprobate. Neceflity
breaks through all rules of justice andpatriotifm.
When once we have got our ha|nd in, we Jhall
not readily relinquiih the plan. We know that
Connecticut is not unaccustomed to connive at
practices that will throw advantages into the
hands of their citizens, and as for Maflacliufetts
they are not free from persons Who have an inor
dinate love of money.
Extrafl of a letter from a gentleman in London, to
bis friend in New-Tori, dated July 4, 1789.
" It is with the greatest pleasure I learn, that
the new Constitution is likely to be solidly cftab
iihed. I hope the two Houses will be firm and
decided in their measures, and not fuffer their
federal power to de difputedor trifled with by a
ny particular State ; if they do, they will soon
dwindle into that nominal and nerveless power,
which distinguished the government of the late
Congress; The truly illustrious General Wash
ington is a treasure which I hope the United
States will long enjoy—a man like him, at the
head of governnent, will give it a weight and
energy which it otherwise would not so fully
poflefs, and must make it highly refpeftable to
all the European powers."
INTELLIGENCE BY THE LAST MAIL.
BOSTON, SEPT. J,
Extra{h of Utters fro?n New-Tor k, Augufl 30.
" I have been here but three weeks, and in
that time have heard, in my occasional visits to
the Gallery, more Oratory, Learning, Law, and
Good Sense, from the Members of the House
than I ever before heard in my life. And for a
bilities ofevery kind, I do not think alike num
ber could be collected in the United States ihat
would be superior."
" I received " the Fragment" you sent me
So far as the Poem is noticed here (for there are
some in the city) it is with indignation and con
tempt. As to the Vice-President, his character
rests upon the broad balls of virtue and abilities,
and is not to be lhaken by the attacks of envy, ma
lic: and disappointment. Another High Officer
who is also an objetft of the Poem, is universally
refpedted—-and since I have been here, I have
heard it said in the House, that the public ser
vice is as much promoted by this officer, as by any
other whatever : That the public military stores
under his care are worth a million of money—and
that they are,through his vigilance and attention,
keptm iucli order, that the United States are, in
this refpetft, in constant preparation for war.
No man can be more refpedted than he is—and
for the attack, I believe it would puzzle a Sybil
to assign acaufe."THE TABLE T._No. XLIV.
" The examples of former ages (l», beyond all com
parison, mors fen fib ly ajfetl tis than those of oier own
times."
ONE of my former speculations touched up
on the propensity of mankind to feel too strong
an admiration for the objecfts of antiquity. I pro
mified at that time, that the fubjeidt should be
again introduced.
It is not improbable that the Roman and some
other ancient characters were more deeply mark
ed both with virtues and vices, than what the
present age exhibits. Civilization wears off the
iharp points of passions and prejudices that stimu
late men in a more uncultivated state of society.
A commercial spirit has obtained an ascendency
over the warlike disposition of ancient times.
These reasons may perhaps solve the qtieftion,
though they may not be the most pliilofophic the
subject admits of.
The difference between the character of anci
ent and modern times, is greater in imagination
than reality. Custom renders the objecfts, we
every day behold, so familiar that we view them
without astonishment. Our cotemporaries exhi
bit virtues without being noticed or praised ; and
commit vices, that excite little indignation or
reproach.
The apothegms of ancieilt philosophers are
celebrated for their wii'dom. They are quoted
on many occasions by persons, Who are themselves
capable of conceiving ideas of greater depth and
propriety. We hear remarks 111 converlation
thaL fliew great sagacity, and soon forget them.
But when an apliorifin has the sanction of some
lplendid name of antiquity, it is supposed far
enough to exceed any thing modern.
Many persons are captivated with ancient elo
quence and poetry. It was more the custom in
former times than at present to address the pas
sions. This circuvnllance gives an ardor to some
of their orations, which is not ulual in modern
speeches. Great orators can only be formed by
great occasions. The convulsed state of ancient
governments kept the turbulent feelings of the
human mind always on the flretch. Their pub
lic speakers wete invigorated with the fabjecft,
and interelled in the event. After all, I think
•we have no occalion to look to antiquity for
specimens of the inoft sublime and animated
oratory.
It may feein paradoxical, but I believe it is
very true, that a general prevalence of know
ledge among a people smothers the flame of elo
quence. Where large numbers have ah academi
cal education, there will be a great propor
tion, who do not give any strong indications of
genius. The learned lumber which these
men accumulate has no other way to find
a market, but by afluming the names of taste
and criticism. Inconsiderable talents are ca
pable of spying out blemishes and finding
fault. When certain rules of criticism are
established, from which it is called unclaffical
to depart, they chill the natural warmth and bold
ness of the imigination. The fancy disdains
controul, and when its wings arc clipped by cri
tical reviewers, it durst not soar to those eleva
tions it would aspire after, if unrestrained. As
the imagination gives oratory its mod lively pow
ers of iafcination, it is evident that the more the
mind is fettered by established rules, the less
l'cope it has ,to display those bold strokes of elo
quence, which only warm and invigorate the
heart, in proportion as they are sudden and un
expected.
But perhaps a much more probable reason than
any I have offered, why we are so lavish of our
admiration on ancient heroes and orators, results
from the practice of studying the Latin and
Greek languages. The students at an academy
have not arrived at a maturity of age to form a
comparison between the ancients and moderns,
even if both had equal julticedone them. But
the greatpft pains are taken ito producp a venera
tion for the ancients j and such splendid exam
ples are feledted as will make strong and perma
nent impressions on a young, unguarded mind.
The inftrvuTtor will tell one, (that he is obliged to
hold out such allurements to encourage the fchol
aYs to overcome the difficulty of" learning those
languages. In addition to fiiefe catjfes of ex
travagant preference, the ambitious lad supposes
he cannot shew his attainments so effectually as
in celebrating the acftions and names of those il
-1 ultrious characters, which poets and hiltorians
have before celebrated.
It woidd have a good effecfi is the best speeches
and writings of our countrymen were feledted
and uf'ed at schools arid colleges as lellbns both
for reading and speaking. They would not fuffer
by a comparison with ancient specimens, either
for propriety of fentimentor vigor of imaginaion.
The best characters and most noble exploits which
our own times and country can furniih, would, by
these means, make forcible impressions on the
rising generation. It would contribute to excite
a national prejudice, without which, no govern
ment can cxift in the liigheft degree of perfec
tion.
FROM THE NEWPORT HERALD.
Tranjlated from the PARIS GAZETTE, printed
the year of our Lord, 2440.
UNITED STAES OF AMERICA.
WASHINGTON > the capital of tbc\Jnio>i, May, 2440,
THE soldier and the ftatefinan, wliofe name
dignifies this federal city, forms the corner stone
to this confederated republic* At his country's
call he facrificed the innocent pleasures of Ver
nonian Mount for the toils and dangers of a per
ilous war.—Though avarice was a ruling paflion,
he modestly declined all rewards for his services
—though religion was unfaihionable amongll the
great, he was exemplary in his morals ; and in
victory, he acknowledged God to be the giver—
though power was fafcinating, he with pathetic
joy resigned his sword.—Summoned again from
his peaceful retreat to complete the glorious
revolution, he accepted, from duty only, the firft
polt of government, which he discharged with
integrity, unbialled by adulations or power.
At his demil'e he left a second legacy to his coun
try — THE EXAMPLE OF A VIRTUOUS STATESMAN
—a model for succeeding Presidents.
These States where liberty, good faith, and
equality fled for refuge 800 years ago, are now
covered with numerous well regulated cities, and
highly cultivated towns. The Constitution theyi
formed, was so perfect, that it hath undergone
few other changes that what regards the settle
ment of the new territory, and the extenlion of
manufactures and commerce.—Public virtue and
justice hath done more here than what courage
and power ever effected in the world : Without
the expence of a fleet rotting in docks or idly
parading, our commerce is secured and oijr flag
honored: Without a Handing ariny in time of
peace, turning ulefnl laborers from the fourceof
industry, the vigilance of our small guards, and
the good order of our militia forms a permanent
security for our borders and our sea coast.
LONDON, July, 2440.
The obstinacy and ambition of George the 111.
which fevered America from our nation, was but
a prelude to a separation irorn the reft of our
colonial eftablifoments which hath since taken
place ; and England, like ancient Rome, finds
herfelf reduced to the boundaries that nature hath
prescribed.
The conference has however produced bene
ficial effects ; it hath curtailed the power and
diflipated the glare of the crown.—lt hath placed
the character of Charles the I, in a just light
no longer is the temple profaned by deprecatory
prayers and lying eulogiums ; instead of which
the statue of Protector Cromwell is erected upon
the executed convict, facing the Parliamentary
house, because the great man it represents is the
true auther of our present excellent constitution.
The swarm of penlioners who feafted on honey
that they did not collect, are annihilated : A
magnanimons and free policy pervades our com
mercial system, and the capital and ourillands are
increasing in wealth, enjoying all a share in the
common bounties of God.
PARIS ,July, 2440.
Twelve ships of fix hundred tons arrived up to
the capital and brought an abundant supply of
every neceflary article ; by which means the in
habitants no longer eatfi/h at ten times its value ;
110 longer reigns on the borders of the Seine, a
devouring capricious and insolent luxury, but in
stead of it there is a luxury of industry, a luxury
which creates and improves every thing that con
tributes to supply the neceflary wants and con
veniences to all.
Absolute sovereignty has been long abolished,
the Chief retains the title of King, without the
will and power of a difpot—lie executes the laws
—proposes ufeful eflablifhments—and as a father
of his people his ear is open to hear, and his justice
to redress their wrongs. The States-General are
vested with all legislative powers, their arrets are
founded 011 the public good, they decide by plural
ity of voices. Lettres de Cachet are abolilhed, the
baftile razed to its ground, and on its ruin is erec
ted the Temple of Clemency.
The citizen is 110 longer a cypher in the State,
for the general happiness of the country is found
ed on the fafety of each individual—he fears not
men, but the laws, and the Monarch himfclf is
fubjotto them ; the King is responsible to the
States General for the execution of his duty, and
they to the people—hence we fee our Princes fear
ing God, and thecenfure ofpofterity ; regarding
a good conscience and afpotlefs adminifti ation as
the higlieft degree of earthly felicity.
The citizens of the present day have clear and
just ideas of natural, political, and civil rights ;
they 110 longer degrade themselves in holding
their lives and their properties at the will and
plealure of their rulers ; amusements 110 longer
di\ ert their attention from general concerns nor
power crush them into silence- but all French
men are free.
ENGLISH PARAGRAPH.
1 HERE is a late account from Paris, which
mentions Co!. Glover's going to take poflbflion of
Sauit Aihze, the late princely residence of the I
Dutchefs of Kmgfton, and which formerivVi
ed to the Duke of Orleans. A great many Jf S "
table gentlemen attended hiui to that
magnificent palace, which is about 2? mile, r y
Paris, ntuated upon a terrace equal to Windr"'
at the bottom of which runs the river Se' '
The • .ews from the house and terrace are emM;*'
ed with the fine ft villages, gentlemen's feats,wol
and vineyards, and an extent of profpetfl impaffi
ble to describe. Every room in the house is rkht
-and coinpleatly furnilhed. It contains 1 40 *1
ht for any nobleman to lleep iu ; and to eve™
bed room a dressing room, and chamber f o r afe
vant. The whole number of beds is 250 Alar
billiard room, a large hall, richly ornamented
with Itatues, and fountains of water, which
and form cascades during dinner. The hJ
throughout the house is of great value. There
is afine play house, and an elegant chapel This
magnificent building would be fit for a Prince o'
2 or 300,000!. a year, although the whole of the
revenues of the estate are not above 2jool per
annum. It is finely wooded, with various cuts
through the woods and the end of each --erminat
ing in a rich beautiful prefpeft. The people
paid Col. Glover great honors upon his arrival
as did all the neighboring gentlemen, together
with the Stewards, Masters of the chafe, & c
About 40 young men attended him the next dav
in a lhooting party, where there was the greate't
plenty of pheasants, partridges, stags, deer, and
fawns. They presented the Col. with the gun
which the old Duke of Orleans used ; and all
allowed it had never had been used to better vr.
pose in so short a time, as the Colonel miffed only
one (hot out of twenty times.
MR TENN9,
The njertton of the fallowing tn your pt per uiiJJic agreeaUetotkfem,
part of your readers—and it is prefumei, uii/l nut of end ethers,
have a pretence to gtodntji, ft nee lerioiltuefs is ibe native fpijot
every virtue." ,
On a late SACRAMENTAL OCCASION in the
North Church.
The Merffurc in imitation of Watts' " few happy matchcs."
FROM meaner themes my Muse ascend !
An angel ask some notes to lend,
To sing of Love Divine :
The Heav'-ns a brighter luftrc shed,
Ai*d glory beams around my head,
Since Cod himfelf is mine.
The thunders of Mount Sinai, now
Jtfo longer fright, its glowing brow,
Nor witness to our guilt ;
The louder cries of Jesus' blood
Have quell'd their rage— appeas'd our God—
For this his blood was fj>ilt. »
To celebrate this dying love,
And raise their hearts to joys above
This low revolving sphere,
Behold a noble band arrive,
Who boldly dare in Christ believe—
Who dare be Christians here.
Around their Father's board they croud,
While joyful songs relound aloud,
While ev'ry rapture's high ;
Blcft prelude to that happy state,
Where feafts and songs, and crowns await,
In realms above the /ky.
O ! knew the worldling half this joy—
Half these delights, which never cloy,
How would his foul repine,
And mourn the foolifh choice he made,
Of earthly pleafures-*-phantom (hade,
In preference to divine.
Awake each sweetly founding string,
In notes fublimc salute your King,
Let love inspire Uic drain.
And when ye take your glorious flight,
Up to your God, .to dwell in light,
O! may I join your train. christian.
THE NATIONAL MONITOR. No. XIX.
u Curs'd be the verse how smooth foev'er it flow,"
Where lies and fcaodal mark the patriot's foe.
SCANDAL is the mofl powerful Qgent in the cause of anarchy od
confufion. —It is to be regretted that too many characters who art aban
doned in principle arid cqndufl, pojfejs at the fame timefo compeUnter
acquaintance with human nature, that they know where to ajjail it
thegrefllcft advantage. It mufl be acknowledged that we are so ms
tuted, that the mofl conjectures nrrefl our attention, and
an imp region upon Qur minds. Ourpaffive natures are vulnerable let it
external influence ; but when, under the guize of actw 1 '
ment, the bold front of calumny comes foftbard with a eonfdent P" B J
icjamation againjl a competitor, it is almost unherfaZy the cafc, tm
a fatal credence ts the result—When the fans of dtjor'der and mrulc
have so far effetted their oljeCl—the public confidence in their bejl) rU "
may be fhakt n—Thofe, whom the sober diclfites of reafan And rest !i *
have led the people to honor qnd refpfitt as their bejl patriots, C f
abjetls of envy andjealoufy. Their opinions are dfregardtdand t-'J
ufefulnefs is defro)ed.
The confluences may bemor-e tafily conceived-, than def cribtd.'
objeil of the worfl of men, in their innuendoes and'flanders againj f
he characters, is never the public good : It \s frfl to fuppiarit thorn* ■
aJfeShons of the people, that the way maybe open tofupplanttkcm j*
places they hold. Sometimes it is true, that jlanderers are a " u A
inferior motives : Disappointment, chagrin, malice, and envy arcof
contented until an humbler grade of mi fchief: And if tha can ( tr c
ruin of characters ioh\ch.throw their own into the jhade-, the) Te Jj u r
fled. In either of these cases, the public inter eft is far fad- 1 e . v
probity, abilities and independent principles are difcoutagd tn
laudable exertions toferve their country. " The pojl of honor tc
a private Jlatiqn." The people bewildered by blind ana cc"
lor St are plunged into eonfufion and anarchy ; till torn by j™ wn
tyranvized\over by they find their dernier retort is
arms of a despot.
| Publi/licd by JOHN FENNO, No. 9.
! near 1 IK- £ '/ccfjc-Murkrt, SE W-YO K K.-~[3^ v ' ■'