[No. XLVI.]
THE TABLE T—No. XLVI.
" Number left are the devices made use of by people of
j'aJJjiouof both [exes to avoid thepurfuitofthe vulgar
IT is rather difficult in this country to fix any
criterion, that will determine the different
rankspeo,tileshould hol<l in society. There seems
to be a blend of" different qualifications, which
elevate persons above what is called the vulgar
part of the community. The great objeift in view
with falhionable folks is to be as unlike as pofli
ble to tliofe, whom they deem inferiors. Perhaps
this way be one reafonof the frequent fl u<sluation
and expensive change of fafhions. Some among
the lowest class of people are notdeftitute of am
bition; and have the vanity to attempt an equal
appearance with those, who are supposed to be
one degree above thein. This makes the latter
imagine they are crouded out of their places, and
inorderto avoid a referriblance with the low herd
that are imitating tliem, they progress a step fur
ther. Thus another grade is interrupted, and
has no way to retaliate the injury it feels in be
ing so jostled, but by displacing its superiors.—
People of the firft rank are perpetually vexed and
mortified at such imitations, and change their
fafhions as often as their inferiors afl'ume them.
I have known a young coxcomb change the but
tons of his coat half a dozen times while it was in
wear. The reason he gave for putting himfelf to
this expence was, that he did not chole to appear
too vulgar.
The term gentleman is so indefinite that there
will always be a claihing of pretentions. There
can be 110 exact line drawn that will fettle the dis
pute. If the matter could be reduced to a cer
tainty, and there could be any eflablifhed rules to
determine, who was, or who was not -a. gentleman,
the difficulty could be got over. Thole who come
within the description would have some claim to
keep their fafhions, either of dress or atnufe
ments among thenifelves. And should those who
bear not the evidences of this character presume
to encroach upon the privileged belonging to it,
they would be pointed at and despised as intru
ders and interlopers.
Profcfiional men have certain badges or insignia
that denote the characters they have aflumtfu.—
The world seem to give in to their claims, and al
low them the exclulive right of modelling their
bwncufto'.ns, and shutting out from imitation all,
who have not an official admitance. The advan
tages of'fuch a regulation are obvious and great.
It puts it in the power of profelfional persons to
prefervetheir diftintftibn, andkeep those preten
ders atadiftancewitliout much trouble or expence.
For instance, a clergyman with a small income
retains his influence in society, and is not obliged
to be frequently changing his apparel to avoid
tooneara resemblance with people, in the lower
walks of life. Should any man, ni>t of that or
der, appear in the clerical attire, the cause of the
clergyman would be defended, and the intruder
raeet vritfc the contempt he deserved. In like
manner, military men keep up their cliftindtion,
and prevent the vulgar croud of mankind from
attempting to appear on a level with them. A
uniform coat may be worn till it is thread bare,
and itill declare to the world that the owner is
no common man. Other profeflions also have
certain marks, which coll them little, and remain
a great while as indications of some elevation or
Superiority over the great mass of the people.
It we,re to be wifhedfor the coavenience ofthofe
who would bethought the fafliionable part of the
community, that they could adopt some less ex
pensive mode of maintaining their dignity and
importance. They are so liable to have their
claims called in question; and to have the vexa
tion of f{ eing those, they affect to clefpife, make
''better ligure than thenifelves, as to mar their
'appinefs, and damp the pleasures of vain am
bition. Jltill however the propensity to excel in
appearance is not extinguished. It tries a thou
ana methods to seize upon objetts, that can not
>e contaminated by vulgar hands. Large houses,
expensive furniture, carriages, and livery fer
vaiits _, require such an expence as to exclude the
poubility ioflofing their attra<flions by too frequent
■in adoption. These therefore form the ultima
tum of aspiring hopes. When any one can arrive
at that pinnacle, he may look down upon the vast
clouds be low him, and feel secure acainfl general
mutation.
MONITORIAL.
writer W3S * n tHc observation' of a late polite
olumfT" >> U better rchife a favor gracefully than bestow it
■'I- And in the eflemial duties of religion, great regard
Tohft dtothctl,r PoGtlollo,themind
to th ei V a ' ms on 'he poor in such a manner as to make it fcem
a t y° u ar p the obliged person, is, if polTible, a greater
than tVi an 1 charit y : lure, he who docs thus is more blcft
done r . eceivcr I.fp r " God loves a cheerful giver." But wh«n
with liaughtinefs and insult, it becomes a crime."
SATURDAY, September 19, 17^9.
EUROPEAN ACCOUNTS, BY THE LAST ARRIVALS.
Constantinople, June i. The plague con
tinues in the Bagnio, and it is now certain has made
its appearance on hoard one of" the fliips of the
fleet, which 1s detained by a change of the wind
near the entrance of the channel.
Among a great number of the rich favorites
of the predeceflbr of Selim 111. the Chief of the
black eunuchs and Treasures, who were disposed
to peace, have been Itrangled. The new Sultan
disapproves of all that was done previous to his
advancement to the throne.
Very afflicfting news is received from the Black
Sea, where the Ruffian cor fairs have ruined our
commerce ; and we learn that a Ruffian fleet ap
proached Coijilantia, bombarded the port,
and seized the grain destined for our cap
ital, where there is a great scarcity of that
article.
Copenhagen, June 27. Thursday last the
Ruffian and Daniiii fleets failed for the Baltic, but
they are now laying at anchor in the bay of Kioge.
There now remain in the road only two Ruffian
Jhips of the line and three frigates.
HAGUE, JUNE 2.
Extract of a Utter from an English naval-officer
at Smyrna, dated the 13 t-h of April, 1 789, by a
courier arrived the dqy before fromConftantinople.
" The Turks rejoice much, and place much
confidence in their present Grand Signior, which
arises not only from the inclination lie fliews for
war, but likewise from a prophesy made some
years ago, which fays, that the Ottoman em
pire ftiould flouriih, and the Crimea be in their
pofleffion, under a Sultan Selim, which is the
name of the present Sultan.
Paris, July 12. His Most Christian Majesty
has appointed the Baron de Bretuil to be Pre
sident of the Council of Finances; in the room of
Monf. Neckar ; the Duke de la Vauguyon Secre
tary of State for the department of Foreign Af
fairs, in the room of M. de Montmorin ; and the
Marihal de Broglio, to bfe Minister of the War
department.
LONDON, JULY 7.
CONVULSIONS IN FRANCE.
THE Nobles, who cabal againfl the popular
proceedings, have had continual interviews with
the King, and we are lorry to declare, that his
Majesty's orders have been ifl'ued, commanding
the Due de Broglio to march with all possible dil
patch to Paris, at the head of all the foreign troops
in the service of France, that can be collected in
Alsace and Lorraine. This army will amount to
2 J, 000 men,and fiich was tlieconfternationitocca
fioned in the National Afiembly, that the Comte
Mirabeau arose, and declared, there could be but
one purpose that the Court had in view, and it
became the people to confiderin time where their
remedy lay. The uproar this occasioned is be
yond description. Repeated meetings were held
with the Due d'Orleans, on the part of the peo
ple, and when the packet which brought this in
telligence to the Duke of York, at York house,
came away, the Due d'Orleans, it was understood,
was looked up to by 39,000 military men in arms,
who considered him as their leader.
July 14. A camp of 35,000 men, under mar
(hal de Broglio, with a large train of artillery, is
already formed, andftationed between Paris and
Versailles, as a lecurity to the King.
The fittings of the national afiembly on the Bth
inft. were uncommonly tumultuous. The encamp
ment became the fubje<sl of debate. M. de Mira
beau, in a speech of two hours, described the cri
tical situation in which the afiembly was placed,
by the arrival of this army. " The station of
these troops," fays he, " is subversive of the li
berty of this afiembly, contrary to the true inter
ests of the King, and an infringement on the pri
vileged orders. The purpose for which they are
aflembled cannot be the re eftablifliment of tran
quility in Paris ; besides, his Majesty must be a
ware, that to provilion 3J,000 men, in this time
of famine, must only increase the public misfor
tunes. The King is ill-advised by some wicked
traitors to the constitution, and it behoves us to
seek the bell remedy in our power." M. de Mi
rabeau, then moved, " That an address be pre
sented to the King, praying that he would take
into consideration his own interest, as well as the
national liberty, and that under the circumstan
ces of the present famine, he would order the
troops back, with their train of artillery, to those
places from whence they came ; that Ihould his
Majesty be fearful of any disturbances at Paris or
Versailles, he might raise companies of armed
burghers in those towns, who would be at his or
ders, and a fuflicient protection."
Thequeltion was immediately put, That a com
mittee should be appointed to present M. de Mira-
FP üblifhed on Wednesday and Saturday .J
beau's motion, in the form of a petition, to the
King, which was carried by 3.
The deputation who waited on the King, it is
reported, received from his Majesty, infubftance,
for answer, " That he did not $hink it advisable
at present to comply with the address of the Na
tional Aflembly."
A report prevails in Paris, that the King of
Spain has offered the French King as many thou
sand men, and as much money, as he shall find
necessary to support his dignity and rights againtt
the attempts of anyf'et of men.
At Lyons, there has been a'dreadful riot—on
the arrival of the news of the Union of the three
orders, the rejoicing was universal, and continued
without mifchief; but on the third, the mul
titude repaired to thelioufeof the fntendant, and
commited many acts of violence, from thence
they proceeded to the offices of the collectors of
government, at the gates ot'the city, &c. &c. pil
laging and destroying every thing, throwing the
books, papers, and ever ytliing they could lay
hands on, into the Rhone. A regiment of dra
goons was sent for (there is no garrison at Lyons,
the citizens always mountingguard) but instead of
producing any effedt, they were insulted, several
wounded, and at length obliged to fire on the
people. A dreadful slaughter followed, the mul
titude continued firm, wounded and killed many of
the and threw others in to the Rhone :
at length they retreated, and took poftout of the
town, on an eminence.
A report prevails, that M. Mirabeau, and M. de
Efprenienil, have accused M. Neckar, in the Na
tional Aflembly, of being the principal canfe of the
present lcarcity of corn, and have actually im
peached him, offering to give positive proofs of
the charge.
The Marshal has entered on his cbmmand with,
great firmnefs and intrepidity.' He had not been
long arrived, before his activity was called into
a<ftion—oll an infurre<ftion the last week at Ver
sailles, the mob threw large stones at a party of
Hussars, who were sent to disperse them. They
were on horseback with their swords drawn, and
finding tliemfelves resisted, they put up their sa
bres and withdrew. On receiving further in
ftruiftions from Marshal Broglio, and having been
joined by two additional companies, they return
ed withorders, that if the mob would not disperse
they should ride over them fvvord in hand. This
was done, and one of the leaders taken up and
sent to prison. The mob soon rallied a freffi, and
were proceeding towards the prison, when M.
de Broglio sent them word, that if they did not
immediately desist, the prisoner should be produ
ced to them, but hanging at the window. This
threat had itseffedl, and the mob dispersed.
The Swiss troops and the French guards do not
at all agree together, and there have been alrea
dy foine skirmishes between thein
The French Minifler has compelled 15 officers
of the French guards (who refufed to do duty
round the House of Aflembly of the States General
to prevent the Members from entering) to resign
their commissions. It has been thought proper,
however, to restore them—and Count de Guiche
has accordingly reinstated them.
July 18. On Saturday, the populace of Paris
attacked the guard at the Palais Royal, and cue
some of the officers to pieces. The rage this vio
lence generated, naturally increafed,and the peo
ple attacked one of the camps near Paris, a cir
cumstance which neceflarily provoked resistance,
and a general affray ensued. Pending this,a man
employed by the government, obtained admit
ance into Paris, and proceeded to parte some pla
cards or proclamations from the King, about the
public streets of the city; He had not affixed
many to the walls of gates, and other great edi
fices, before hewasfeizedby the mob, and facri
ficed in the crueleft manner to the fury of the
moment.
On Saturday at noon, M. Neckar, and M. Mont
morin, received their dismission. The former, it
is imagined, set offimmediately for Switzerland.
Others think he was put into confinement, as he
has notfince been seen.
When the cxprefs left Paris, the city was fuf
fering a cannonade from the Boulevards which the
meflenger heard continue for aconfiderable time,
while he was pursuing his rout to Calais.
On the road from Paris to Calais, he was ftop
ed at almolt every town, and would not have
been fuffered to proceed, but that the Duke of
Dorset had luckily furnifhed him with the pafl
port of a meflenger. The mob, however, every
where obliged him to cry out, VIVE LE TlkllS
ETAT !
The tumults in France are so great, that no pub
lic business is going forward. The funds fall con
siderably. The whole route from Paris to Ver
sailles, Which is twelve English miles, is lined with
troops and cannon.His Majesty's anfwcr to the National Aflfembly, on the fubjeaof
their representation to difmifsthe Swiss troops, is to the following
effea: r b
1 hat he considered them necessary for the preservation of or
der and tranquility ; that the Afferably had no reason to be under
any constraint on their account ; and that if the troops encamped
in the neighborhood of Pjris were difagrecable, his Majesty would
ou a request from the States General, remove their fittings to Soif
fons, or Noyons, in which cafe he would himfelf repair to Com
peigne, in order to be at hand to correspond with the States."
1 he shock thus given to the warm hopes of the people ftupified
them for a time; but the people crowded to the Palais Royal,
i he French troops declared their refoluiion to a£l for the people.
Towards the evening of Sunday the Palais Royal was surrounded
by the Swiss troops, and the messenger who brought difpatchesto
M. de Calonne, and who set out two hours later than Lady Eliza
beth Foster's servant, confirms, that the troops had began to fire on
the multitude, and that the people had attacked one of the camps.
It was reported also, that an arret was iflued for seizing the Due
d'Orleans, and several attempts made to take him, but all mifcar
ned. The charge was, that he had iflued 110,000 crowns, on a
pretence of relieving the wants of the peopie in refpe6t to the
scarcity of corn, but that in reality it was employed to encourage
infurre&ion.
The palace of Vcrfailles is guarded by three lines of foldiers,and
the King has little to fear while the Marshal de Broglio is about
him. The latter is determined to ast vigorously, and to give no
quarters to the mob. The Swiss guards are in a fine state of disci
pline.
The capital of France stands not alone noticeable at this time
for riot and confufion. Private letters from Amsterdam yester
day brought intelligence of a violent tumult having arisen there,
on account of the scarcity of bread. The military was called out,
and a momentary gust ensued from it, all is not yet so peaceably
cftablifhed as that nothing may be apprehended in future.
The following news from Paris was brought by express late last
night. The disturbances are further from adjustment than when
the last accounts arrived from thence.
The power of the King is daily abating.
The Irish brigade alone,arc ftedfaftly attached to royalty. How
long in this general defalcation, their attachment may last, is un
certain.
The populace have seized the arsenal, and taken from it all the
arms and ammunition, a step that has obliged the King's troops to
retire to some distance from the capital.
< The King has difTolved the meeting of the National Aflembly,
but in defiance of this authority,the Aflembly continue to set and act.
The University is levelled to the ground.
The King it is further said has ere&ed a standard for his parti
zans to flock to, but they are few who resort to it. Such is the
spirit of the times.
The address presented by a deputation of the National Aflem
bly to the French King, on the fubjett of the introdu&ion of for
eign troop?, and the forming of the camps so near the capital, is
from the pen of the Count Mirabeau, and a very masterly com
position. His Majesty's answer is at once conciliating, ambigu
ous and vague.
A French Nobleman of high rank, is arrived here this morn
ing, who brings advice, that the party of the people carry every
thing before them at Paris. The French guards have openly de
clared on that fide. They, with the populace, attacked the baf
tile; many of them entered, when Monf. de Lannoy, the Gov
ernor, drew up the bridge, enclosed those who had entered, and
cut them to pieces. The troops and people without, finding
their companions detained, attacked the place, and forced it open
—and finding what had happened to their party, took the Gov
ernoi 1 out, led him through the streets, obliged him to make the
amende honourable to the people, and then cut off his hands and his
head. The foreign regiments, frightened by the violence of the
commotion, have all laid down their arms, or fled, except one
regiment of Huflars, which alone remains to gnard the perfonof
the King. The Queen and the Count d'Artois, are both fled,
and a reward isoffered for their heads. Many of the principal
nobility, who fide with the King, are likewise proscribed, and
gone off. In short, it appears that the King is at the mercy of the
Tiers Etat, and mud submit wholly to their terms. Such are the
effects of Popular commotions when they get a head in despotic
countries.
The baftile is burnt, and all the prisoners set at liberty ; the hotel
of the Prince de Conte, that of the Count d'Artois, and several
other edifices are destroyed by fire.
Many people have been killed in the affrays and fkirmifties
which have happened. Almost all the (hops are constantly (hut,
and a general distrust rules there. People press in crouds to get
their money from the Caifle d'Efcompte. M. Neckar is gone off
at the King's command, and he is very fortunate to have escaped
from a scene of such confufion. It is said the King himfelf is gone
from Versailles.
It is confidently aflerted, that the difmiflion of Monf. Neckar,
and the Comte de Montmorin, efte&ed by the intervention
of the French Queen, and the Comte d'Artois : that the rcftora -
tion of the Baron de Breteuil was owing to the fame interference,
and that the do&rine of his counsels was the coercion of the people.
The King, from the afpeft of affairs, appears to have been en
tirely under the guidance of his consort ; and so generally wasthis
understood, that the Tiers Etat insisted on the banishment of the
Compted'Artois,a flop putto the ruinousinterfcrenceoftheQueen,
and that her creatures, the Polignacs, (hould be difmifled.'
The Comte de Mirabeau's patriotic endeavorsto cause the troops
to be withdrawn, were in vain, all he could urge, and other mem
bers in favor of the people, tended only to increase a spirit of re
liftance to the Couit ; and it is not exaggeration to fay, that the
most dreadful anarchy is on foot !
The foreign regiments, among the forces above mentioned,were
stationed in situations most contiguous to the gates of Paris and
Versailles ; and they very soon proceeded to insult the people ;
riots ensued, and a great multitude assailed the Palais Royale !
The officer and guard were killed on the spot ; the troops advan
ced into the city, and a continued engagement ensued, in which
the people made a stand with astonishing intrepidity. Before
Roll! (which is the name of the courier) left Paris, the populace
had repeatedly attacked the Comte d'Artois' residence, with a
view to burn it, and also some of the offices of State ; and a num
ber of lives on both fides were loft in these confli&s. A part of
the multitude was 011 their way to Vcrfailles, and the Palace was
threatened to be laid in ashes.
Several persons, poflefled of military (kill, appeared as leaders
to the populace ; and the names of patriotic noblemen were in
circulation, as being disguised among them ; which latter rumor
seemed to impart particular animation. Against the Queen and
the Comte d'Artois very general vengeance was denounced.
The French King has requested theaid of England. Our Charles
the First made a like demand of France—and yet loft his head.
Letters received from Amsterdam to day. bringan account that
an express is arrived there with news of the Swtdifh fleet being
out from Carlfcroon, in force 21 fail of the lins, and 16 frigates.
If To, they will prevent the jun&ion of the Ruflian fleet, which
failed from Copenhagen, with their grand fleet, off Revel.
The Emperor's situation is described by all the private ac
counts from Vienna and Luxempurgh, as truly desperate. By
the fame channel we learn that his death is expe&ed to put an
immediate termination to the war.
It is impoflible to ascertain, with precifion,!he state of the Em
peror's health ; the cruel disorder with which his Majesty is af
flicted, having taken so many turns. The melancholy which re
main* at Vienna is increased by the last news from Luxemburgh
■which is not favorable. An universal admiration prevails at the
noble resignation with which his Majesty bears his aljliftion. He
reach all hisdifpatches, and even signs himfclf ihc mod important.
The c'naratteriftics of the present Emperor of the Ottomans
are described to be violence and rafhuefs : This accounts for his
rejefition of all pacific overtures, his taking the Pacha from the
command of the fleet, and determining to prosecute the war.
His Swedish Majesty reached Borgo,in Finland,the Bth of June,
notwithflanding the vigilance of the Ruflians to intercept him.
His fii ft ast after he had joined his army, was an a£l of severity.
He caused the whole Swedish camp to turn out under arms. The
regiment of Abo was then marched to the centre of a hollow
square, formed by the army. They were ordered to ground
their arms, and toftrip off their regimental coats, and then their
colors were torn in pieces. After this they were marched off in
finale files, whilst the reft of the troops were ordered to set up
and keep up a general hijs, till the last man of the last file had got
out of the hallow square.
The privates, however, were not disbanded, tho the regiment
wa s—rhey were drafted into the different corps of artillery in
arms.
1 he crime which brought on this regiment so severe a military
punilhment was, that it did not do its duty in the affair of Fre
derickfham.
INTELLIGENCE BY THE LAST MAIL.
KINGSTON, (JAMAICA) JULY 2s.
The brig Mentor had a paflage of 28 days from
the Bay of Honduras. By her we are favored
with a letter from that place, and the following
is extracted therefrom :
The jealous Spaniards have been among us, and
laid waste molt of our plantations ; not a plan
tain tree, or anything else that was of service,
have they left (landing,as far as they have gone ;
so that nothing but ruin awaits us. This "beha
vior of the Dons has caused great confufion, and
what the event may be God knows !"
RICHMOND, SEPT. 8.
A correspondent has furnifhed the following
extraordinary marriage, which took place 011
Thursday fe'niiight. Edward Wade to Elizabeth
Thurmon, originally of Hanover county, whose a
ges added together would nearly extend to the
Settlement of this State. They recollect when
Hanover was the frontier of Virginia, and when
the merchants at the falls of James river, glut
ted the market by the importation of 1 jool. worth
of goods. Tliefe antic lovers began their court
(hip about jo or 60 years ago,tut were not joined
together in the holy slate of matrimony till the
27th ult.
BALTIMORE, SEPT. 11.
Extra (I of a letter from a gentlejnan at Danville,
(Kentuckey ) to his friend in this toiun y dated the
gth of lajl month.
" It is withgreat concern I communicate to you
the following truly melancholy intelligence :
" About three weeks ago, Mr. Richard Clieno
weth, had fix or eight men allowed him, by the of
ficer of the garrison at the falls, to guard his ex
posed plantation, at Bear-Crab Settlement, below
the Kails. In the evening of their arrival, before
they had taken their situation as a guard, a num
ber of Indians rushed into Mr.Clienoweth's house,
killed two of the soldiers and three of Mr. Che
noweth's children, and tomahawked and scalped
his wife, leaving her, 011 the floor, for dead. Mr.
Chenoweth (who had his arm broken by the sa
vages) with the reft of the men made their escape.
There was one of Mr. Chenoweth's children sick,
in a chamber, and it is reported,fhe never heard
anything of the dreadful maflacre; but, next
morning, crawling down stairs, she was inexpres
sibly shocked at the fight of a beloved parent al
mofl breathless. Mr. Chenoweth returned the
next day to his house, and carried his wife to a
neighboring plantation, where they are both
likely to recover, and, what is remarkable she
wants to return to her own house. The sava
ges have been very troublesome in this neigh
borhood.—A small company are gone to White
river, to extirpate 80 or 90 Indians, who, as spies
have informed, have upwards of 300 horses &c.
at that place."
PHILADELPHIA, SEPT.I 6.
The following Aflociation, to prevent smug
gling, is now universally signed by the merchants
and traders of this city.
Philadelphia, 1 $th of Sept. 1789.
WE the subscribers, Merchants and Traders of
the city of Philadelphia, do hereby pledge our
selves to each other, and to our fellow citizens
at ! ar j? e ' r^at we not be concerned directly
or indirectly in any trade contrary to the reve
nue laws of the United States ; but will, by eve
ry effort in our power, discourage such illicit
practices, by not employing, or by difinifling
from our service, any Master or Mate of a ves
sel, or any Pilot, who fhallbe engaged in a con
traband trade, or in aiding or abeting others in
such collusive employments.
BOSTON, SEPT. 12.
It is said, that the Admiral of the His Moll
Christian Majesty s squadron intended to have
palled this fcafon at Newport, but learning that
Bhode-Ifland was not now one of the United
States, he altered his intention.
HARTFORD, SEPT. 14.
Extract of a letter from Camden, South-Carolina,
dated May 29.
" A most fatal tragedy has just been acted at
t 11s place, 'which lias filled every mind with sor
row I have just returned from the funeral of
Jacob Brown, Esq. attorney at law, ofWinfbo-
rough, (late of Maflachufetts) w h o died U
twelve and one o'clock this morning AtT""
lalt evening 1 affiftedin
vice to the remains of Capt. Thomas rOI
the fame place. These two gentlemen hadb, ° f
a long time at variance, and from a ri,,A
concurring circumstances, their
become implacable. About four weeks ao- m
Brown sent Capt. Baker a challenge t0 fiofu '
wnh pistols, which was refufed. Thev H i
however come to an explanation, orany ter ni sof
peace, but every day became more and more L
veterate. The 26th inft. Capt Baker r
challenge to Mr. Brown who accepted it'"! 4
appointed the morning of the 28th, at this'pW
to make a final decihon-a fatal decifm n jf
They met on the race ground adjoining rt
town before fun rife,with ieconds and p ift o f s a j
fired nearly at the fame time, at the diftanc'e „f
ten yards and both fell. Capt. Baker was IhJ
through the centre of the body, and expired 01
the field in about twelve minutes, while Mr
Brown was weltering in his blood by his fide
he was shot 111 the lower part of his bellv
.1,. ball cu.ou. of his left fide by , f u *„ 7 n '™ h
attended. Sensible of their speedy dilutions
they conversed calmly together after they fell'
and mutually forgave all that hadpaflbd. Han'
py would it have been had this forgivenefstaken
place sooner ! Mr. Brown lived about twentv
hours. They both appeared to be perfectly coo'l
and determined which occasioned such execution
It is the firll instance I ever knew of each party be
ing killed the firft shot. Thus fell these two men
in the prime of life ! Capt. Baker was a widower,
and has left two children to bemoan his untime
ly loss."
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES,
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, I 789.
Mr. White moved as an amendment to the
second feiftion of the Judicial Bill, that the two
counties 011 the eastern shore of Virginia, and
the eastern shore of Maryland, be added to the
State ol Delaware, tocompofe one Diftriifl,
Mr. Parker said, that he was bound to oppose
this motion, being confident that such a division
would be disagreeable to his constituents.—The
question on this motion, was put, and negatived.
(Omited in our last.)
Mr. Seney moved as an amendment in thethird
fedlion, to strike out Eafton, and insert Chefter
town as the place for the holding the district
court, which motion was loft—The ayes and noes
being called are—
AYhS. Mejfrs Ufnfon,Floyd,Gerry,Goodhue,Hartley,Htiilti,
Lawrance, Livermore, Moore, I'. Muhlenberg, Parker, Scon,
Seney Smith, (M.) Smith, (S. C.) Sylvester, Thatcher, Trambull,
Vinm£, Wynkoop. 20.
NOhS. McJJts. Baldwin, Bland, Brown, Cadwallader, Car
roll, Contee, Fitzfimons, Foster, Gale, Giiman, Griffin, Hathorn,
Lee, Madison, Matthews, Page, Van Kanfellaer, Schureinao,
Sherman, Sinnickfon, Stone, Sunipter. White. 23.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16.
The bill for the temporary establishment of
the Port-Office, was read the firft time.
Mr. Goodhue, Mr. Sherman, and Mr. Con
tee were appointed to bring in a bill to repeal
that part of the collection act, which ascertains
the value of the Rouble.
The petition of the merchants of Portsmouth
was referred to the above committee.
A committee consisting of Mr. Burke, Mr.
Moore and Mr. Lawrance, was appointed to
bring in a bill to establish the salaries of the ju
dicial department.
The consideration of the bill sent down from
the senate, providing for the punishment of cer
tain crimes against the United States ; and of the
bill to establish liofpitals for the sick and disabled
feainen, was postponed until next session.
The ai r t to suspend part of the Colledtijn Law,
and the adt to provide forthe fafe keeping of the
A«fts, Records, and Seal of the United States,
were received from the President of the United
States, with his signature and approbation.
The following meflage from the President ot
the United States was received by the Hon. Se
cretary at War.
Gejitlemeti of the Ho use of Reprefcntat'mes.
The Governor of the Western Territory has
made a statement to me of reciprocal hoftihti es
of the Wabafh Indians and white people inhabit
ing the frontiers bordering on the river Ohio,
which I herewith lay before Congress.
The United States in Congress aflembled, b)
their acts of the ift day of July I 787, and of the
12th day of August 1 788, made a provifionalar
rangement for calling forth the militia of\ ' r "
ginia and Pennsylvania in the proportions there
in fpecified. ~
As the circumstances which occasioned the fai
arrangement continue nearly the fame, I t' llll
proper to suggest to your consideration the ex P. e
diency of making some temporary proviiion 0
calling forth the militia of the United States
the purposes stated in the Constitution, w
would embrace the cases apprehended b)
Governor of theWeftern Territory.
GEO. WASHINGTON-
New-York, Stpte?nber 16, 1789-Sepl. 14, 1789.
si R ,
The constant hostilities between the Indians
who live upon the river Wabafli, and the people
of Kentucky, nruft neceflarily be attended with
such embarralfing circumstances to the govern
ment of the Weltern Territory, that I am induc
ed to request you will bepleafed to take the mat
ter into conlideration, and give me the orders
you may think proper.
It is not to be expe&ed, Sir, that the Ken
tucky people will or can submit patiently to the
cruelties and depredations of those savages—they
are in the habits of retaliation, perhaps without
attending precisely to the nations from which
the injuries are received. They will continue to
retaliate, or they will apply to the Governor of
the Weltern Country (through which the Indians
must pass to attack them) for redress ; —if he
cannot redress them (and in the present circum
stances he cannot) they also will march thro that
country to redress themselves, and the govern
ment will be laid proltrate . —The United States
on the other hand, are at peace with several of
the nations ; and should the resentment of these
people fall upon any of them, which it is likely
enough to happen, very bad conlequences may
follow ; for it must appear to thenf that the
United States either pay 110 regaad to their trea
ties, or that they are unable or unwilling to car
ry their engagements into effeift. RemonltranceS
will probably be made by them also to the Go
vernor, and he will be found in a situation
from which he can neither redress the One, nor
protect the other ; they will unite with the hos
tile nations, prudently prefering open war to a
delusive and uncertain peace.
By a resolution of the late Congress, the Go
vernor of the Weltern Territory had power in
cafe of lioltilities, to call upon Virginia and
Pennsylvania, for a number of men to adlin con
junction with the continental troops, and carry
war into the Indian settlements ; that resolution,
it is luppofed, is now 110 longer in force. The
revival of it might be of use, as it would tend to
conciliate the weltern people, by Ihewing them
that they are not unattended to ; —and would in
some measure j uftify me, in holding a language
to the Indians, which might obviate the neceflity
of employing a force agaiult them.
The handful of troops, Sir, that are scattered
in that country, though they may afford pro
tection to some settlements, cannot polfibly act
offenfively by themselves.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your moll obedient and most humble servant,
ARTHUR St. CLAIR.
The President of the United States.
Thismeflage was refered to afelecft committee.
The House then proceeded in the amendments
reported by the committee, to the judicial bill,
and having gone thro the fame, ordered to be
engroiiedfor a third reading to-morrow.
And then the House adjourned.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 17.
Sundry petitions were read and committed.
Mr. Boudinot of the committee on theinef
fage received yesterday, brought in a bill to re
cognize theeftablifhment of troops on the West
ern Frontiers— read the firft and second time,
and referred to a committee of the whole to tye
taken up to-morrow.
Mr. Goodhue of the committee appointed for
the purpose, brought in a bill to amend that part
of the Colledion Law, by which the Rouble of
Russia is estimated at 100 cents, and to fix it at
66 cents —this bill to be in force till the end of
the next session of Congress.
The bill for the temporary establishment of the
Port-Office, was read a second and third time,and
pafled the House.
Mr. Baldwin of the committee of conference,
on the disagreeing votes of the two Houses, re
fpedting the salary of the Vice President, report
ed that the committees hadjeome to no agreement.
Amotion was then made by Mr. Stone, that
the House should recede from their disagreement
to the amendment of the Senate, which after
some debate was negatived, and the House resolv
ed to adhere to their disagreement.
Mr. Sh erman, in theconverfation on this mo
tion, observed, that he had ahigh esteem for the
person of the present Vice President, as a man of
abilities, integrity and patriotism. His eminent
services during the whole course of the late con
test, were a futficienteulogium, and rendered any
other unneceflary. He had, he said, in an uncom
mon degree, one virtue which waS rarely found ;
a faculty of uniting dignity with economy. He
thought therefore that it was unneceflary, at pre
lent, to allow the Vice President so la-ge a salary
as fix thousand dollars, especially, considering
the present low state of our finances.
The bill for the establishing Judicial Courts in
the United States with, the amendments, was read
the third time.
Mr. Gerry then rose, and stated anumber of
objections againlt palling this bill—these went to
its principles and operation. But he further ob
served, that as it is acknowledged the bill is an
ex perinieht, and as it bas been precipitated thro
the Ho use he wiihed if it did pals, that a clause to
limit its duration might be added.
Mr. Jackson, Mr. Burke, and Mr. Stone
also objected to palling the bill—they obferveel
that the bill is opprei'iive in its nature, and will
have a mischievous operation.
Mr; Madison and Mr. Benson made a few
observations in reply.—As to the bill's being ex
perimental, it was said, that all legislative a*sis
are neceflarily of that nature, and must be so,
till mankind poflefs perfecfl wisdom and fore
knowledge.—The bill may not exaiflly suit aiiy
one member of the House, in all its parts —-but it
is as good as we can at present make it.—lt is ab
solutely neceliary that a judicial law /hould pass
the present felfion : Experience may point out ics
defeats. As to its being precipitated, it was ob
served, that the bill had been in existence many
months—had been printed for the infpee'lion of
the members, and had been a long time in their
hands.—That it had undergone a lengthy discus
sion, in committee—after which it had been taken
up in the House, when numerous amendments
had been proposed and agreed to.—From these
considerations it was inferred,that the observation
of the gentleman, that the bill had been precipi
tated was unjult.
On the question, Shall the bill pass ? Mr.
Burke called for the Ayes and Noes, which are
as follow—
AYES. Mcjfrs. Ames, Baldwin, Benfon, Boudinot, Biown*
Cadwallader, Carroll, Clymer, Coniee, Fitzfimons, Foster, Gale,
Gilman, Goodhue, Griffin, Hartley, Heifter, Huntington, Law
rance, Lee, Madison, Moore, P. Muhlenberg, Page, Schureman,
Scott, Sherman, Silvester, Smnickion, Smith, (M.) Smith, (S. C.)
Thatcher, Trumbull, Vining. Wadfworth, White, Wynkoop. 37.
NOES. Melfrs. Bland, Burke, Coles, Floyd, Gerry, Grout,
Hathorn, Jackson, Livermore, Matthews, Parker, Van Ranfellaer,
Seney, Stone, Sumpter, Tucker. 16.
Mr. Benson, introduced the following refolutiori —That the
Secretary of the Treasury be directed to report to the House an
estimate of the sums heceffary to be appropriated the present ses
sion of Congress ior payment of the civil lift—the department of
war, and warrants drawn on the Treasury, which have not been
discharged—and that a committee be appointed to bring in a bill
pursuant thereto—laid on the table.
The bill for eftabliftiing the salaries of the judicial department,
was read a full and second time, and ordered to be taken up to
morrow.
The salaries proposed are as follow :
Chief Jnftice, 4,500 dollars per annum.
Judges of the Supreme Court each 4,000
Judge of Diftrift of Maine 800
New-Hamp(hire 1.000
Maflachufetts 2,000
Connecticut 1,250
2,000
New-Jersey 1,200
Pennsylvania 2,000
Delaware 800
Maryland 1,600
Viginia 2,250
Kentucky 800
South-Carolina 2,000
Georgia 1,600
Attorney General 2,000
Mr. Gerry introduced a resolution that the Secretary of
State be directed to procure, from time to time, such statutes of
the Ccveral States as may not be already in his office.
On motion of Mr. Gerry, the committee of ways and means
were discharged, and the several matters committed to them re
fered to the Secretary of the Treasury.
The House then, according to the order of the day, went into
a committee of the whole on the bill ior fixing the permanent
feat of government.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
Mr. Vining moved that the firft paragraph of the bill be
(truck out in order to insert one to this effeCt—That a distriCt of
ten miles square, comprehending the borough of Wilmington in
the State of Delaware, to be located as hereafter direCted, (hould
be seleCted as the feat of governmeet of the United States, until a
more eligible place (hould be fixed on,for the permanent feat; and
that measures (hould be taken to accommodate Congress within
that distriCt, as soon as conveniently might be. Provided that
no cedion be accepted till a6ls (hould be passed by the States ot
Delaware and Maryland,to open a water communication between
the bay of Chefepeake and Delaware.
This motion was negatived. Ayes 23. Noes 28.
Mr. Gaie then moved to amend the firft clause, by annexing
the following proviso—That no distriCt be accepted as aforefaid,
until the President of the United States (hould be fatisfied of the
practicability of effecting a navigation from the feat of govern
ment to the mouth of the said river ; and that this law (hould not
be carried into etfeCt, until the States of Pennsylvania and Mary
land (hould pass a£ts (not includingany expence to the said States)
providingfor removing the obftruftions of the fame.
A division of this motion was called for, at the word " river,"
and the question on the firft part was negatived. Ayes 25. Noes 29.
The question on the second part was then put, and the commit
tee was equally divided. Ayes 97. Noes 27. Ihe chairman
gave the casting vote in the affirmative.
The committee then rose and reported, and the House took up
the report. ..
The amendment adopted by the committee, on the motion of
Mr. Ga le, was agreed to. Ayes 28. Noes 26.
Mr. Gale then moved to insert after the words " Sufquehan
na in the State of Pennsylvania" the words " or Maryland."
On the question upon this motion there was an equal division of
the House, and the speaker gave the casting vote in the negative.
The further consideration of the bill wes postponed tillto-mor*
row , and the house adjourned.
FRIDAY, S E FT. 18.
A bill making provision for the invalids of the United States,
was read.
A petition from the Rev. Wm. Stoy, dating that he had disco
vered an effedual remedy for the Hydrophobia, and praying the
houle that in their wisdom they would devifefome way by which
the public may be benefited by the Remedy, and the inventor re
compensed for his expence and time in making the discovery, laid
on the table.
The bill to amend the part of the Collection Law, which esti
mates the Rouble of Ruflia at 100 cents, was read a second time,
and ordered to be engrofled.
The enrolled bill for the temporary establishment of the Post-
Office, was brought in and signed by the Speaker.
A petition from Barnes, Attorney to James Rums ey,
respeCting a variety of curious discoveries, and originial inventions
of the said Rumfey was read, and laid on the table.
The motion of Mr. G e r r y , enjoining on the Secretary of State
the procuring such Statutes of the refpeftive Stetes as are not in his
office, was read, and adopted, and ordered to be sent to the Senate
for their concurrctkse.
The report of t-hccommittee on the motion of Mr. Whi TS,rcf
pefling the ceflion of lands made by the State of Virginia, See.
was read, and refered over to the next feflion.
The House theit went into a committee of the whole on the bill
for eftablifliing the salaries of the Judicial Department.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
The $ill was then read, and on motion of Mr. Goodhue to
fir ike out 4500 dollars, the proposed salary of the ChieJ Jultice,
and to insert 3000. A lengthy debate enlucd. The Committee
finally agreed on the following lalaiies, viz. pr. ann.
Chief Justice, 4000 dollars,
Judges of the Supreme Court, each 3000
Judge of Dillrict of Maine 800
NeVhampfhire; IOCO
Mairachuftt:s, 1200
* Conne&icut, ioco
New-York, 1 ,500
New-Jersey, 1000
Penuiylvania, 1600
Delaware, B<>o
Maryland, 1500
Virginia, 1800
Kentucky, 800
Soutlj Carolina, 1800
Georgia, 1600
Attorney General, 2000
The committee then rose.
A meflage was received from the Senate, with the resolution ref
pe&ing the Statutes of the refpe&ive States, concured.
Adjourned t ill to-morrow v 10 o'clock.
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER 19.
ADDITIONAL APPOINTMENTS SINCE OUR LAST.
The President of the United States has been pleased to nominate
and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate to appoint
Samuel Meredith, Esq. of Philadelphia, Treasurer of the
United States : and Major Wi lli am Mc Pher son, Surveyor of
Philadelphia, vice Samuel Meredith.
The Legislature of Pennsylvania has agreed upon calling a Con
vention for the purpose of revising and amending their State Con
dilution : The people of that Commonwealth are remarkably uni
ted in the measure: The Convention is to meet in Philadelphia,
on the 4th Tuesday of November next.
The Legislature has also at its present feftion, ceded to the Uni
ted States the exclusive jurisdittion over such diftritt as may be
come the feat of the Ffederal government in that Commonwealth.
English accounts of French affairs exhibit a very unce/tairt state
of their real situation. It appears from them that the recent com
pliance of the King with the demands and requests of the Tiers
Etat, was a temporizing measure, and only designed to amuse,
while preparations were made to reeftablilh the power of the crown
upon its former foundation. Should this be the cafe, the question
is, whether it is probable that in this enlightened age the people
can be so deceived ? If it is, the reign of liberty is not yet com
menced in 'France. Should the people be triumphant, may they
be so wife as to establish a just and equal form of government, and
not do as their neighbors, who when they had destroyed one ty
rant set up another.
Mankind are prone to extremes, and too seldom learn wisdom
but in the school of experience : The transitions from rule and
order are infinitely 'easier and more rapid to licentiousness and
confufion, than from the latter to the former. At the moment of
peace we found ourselves in a very unenviable situation : A sense
of common danger had kept us in union with each other, without
the reftraintsof law ; but the period, tho not a long one in the age
of a nation, was fufficient to relax our principles, and to infufe
very oernicious maxims into the minds of a great proportion o£>
our citizens : Many were ready to fay, that a state of nature was
preferable to the reftri£lions of civilized society, and that human
nature, especially the American human nature, was so refined*
and so enlightened, that we (hould spontaneously do right.—Ex
perience only taught us the dclufive hature of our sentiments, and
so gradual has our recovery been* that almost seven years of peace
have scarcely brought us back to our senses.
From realizing that we are compofcd of the fame materials with
the reft of mankind, and require the aid of government to make
life tolerable, and to secure the bleflings of freedom, property and
peace, we have been led to the adoption of a constitution of go
vernment : It is devoutly to be wished that we may continue to
discern wherein our true intereftlics, by giving the government we
have eretted, that support which may realize to ourselves and pos
terity the happiness, which under its auspices we so fondly antici
pate.
Monday evening last The President of the United State?,
his Lady, and Family, and several other persons of diftin£tion,
were pleased to honor Mr. Bowen's exhibition of Wax Work,
with their company, at No. 74, Water Street, and appeared ex
ceedingly Well pleased with the late improvements made by the
proprietor.
On Wednesday morning the 16th infL departed this life, in the
33d year of his age, JOB SUMNER, Esq. late Major in the Mas
sachusetts line of the Continental army : His remains were on
the succeeding day, attended to St. Paul's Church Yard, where
they were solemnly deposited with military honors.
Order of Procejfion.
Regiment of Artillery with reversed Arms.
Drums muffled and Fifes in mourning.
State Society of the Cincinnati.
Band of Music in mourning.
Clergy.
Col. Baumanj q Col. Platt, j _ti
£ I Col. Walker, po Col. Smith, j
Col. Ham 1 lton, Col. White,
£"j Col. Willet, M Gen. Webb,
f Vice President. }
Mourners of <Senators& Representatives. > Majfachufctts.
( Secretary at War. )
Other Senators and Representatives*
Witha number of refpettable citizens,clofed the solemn proceflion_
His military friends, being witnesses of his abilities and vir
tues as a foldiei, (hed the tear of sorrow on his grave, and the citi
zens of New-York, recollefling the prote&ion afforded them on
the evacuation, by the troops under the immediate command o£
their departed friend, gave a sigh to his memory, and generously
paid the last friendly tribute to his virtues.
Saturday sth inft. died at the hospitable mansion of John
Smoot, Esq. of Dorchester county, on the Eastern shore of the
State of Maryland, Capt. JOSEPH CUNNINGHAM, late o£
Boston, Massachusetts.
EXTRACTS.
If the golden law of liberty was obferved—lf all
WERE RESTRAINED FROM DOING INJURY TO ANY, what a
Heaven we (hould speedily fee upon earth ! The habit of iuch a
restraint, would, in time, fuppreis every emotion to evil. The
weak would, have the strength of this law for their support—the
poor would have the benevolence of it for their riches. Under
the light and yoke ps fuch'a restraint, how would in
dustry be encouragcd ! and how sweet would be the secure reward*
of labor ! how would benignitv rejoice to call neighbors, txiends,
and strangers to come and participate of the fruits thereof.
How has the sacred name of liberty been perverted and profa
ned by the mouths of madding demagogues at the head of a delu
ded rabble, who mean nothing better than a licentious unmuz
zling from all restraint, that they may ravage and lay desolate the
works and fruits of peace, law, and justice.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED,
(IN CONTINUATION.)
LET us now coiifider what would have been
the face of yEmilius, if Rome had been governed
at tliis time by Nedham's succession of the peo
ple's representatives, unchecked by a senate. It
is plain lie mult have given into the common
practice offlattering, caressing, soothing, bribing,
and cajoling the people, omeverhave been coil
ful, never commanded armies, never triumphed.
An example more deftructiveof our author's fyf
tein can scarcely be fbund, and yet he has the
inadvertence at least to adduce it in support of
his Right Conllitution of a Commonwealth. It
has been necessary to quote these anecdotes at
some length, that we may not be deceived by a
specious lliovv, which is destitute of substance,
truth, and fact, to support it-
But how come all these examples lo be patri
cians and senators, and not one inltance to be
found of a plebeian commander who did nut
make a different use of his power ?
1 here is a strange confulion or perversion in
what follows : " Rome never thrived until it was
" fettled in a freedom of the people." Rome
never was fettled in a freedom of the people ;
meaning in a free Hate, according to our author's
definition of it, a fucceflion of the supreme au
thority in the people's representatives. Such an
idea never-existed in the Roman commonwealth,
not even when or before the people made Caesar
perpetual dictator. Rome never greatly pros
pered until the people obtained a finall mixture of
authority, a (light check upon the senate, by their
tribunes. This therefore, is proof in favor of
the mixture, and against the system of our
author.
" Freedom was best preserved, and interest
" best advanced, when all places of honor and
" trust were exposed to men of merit, without
" diftin«tion." True, but this never happened
till the mixture took place.
" This happiness could never beobtained, until
" the people were inflated in a capacity of pre
" fering whom they thought worthy, by a free
" dom of electing men fucceflively into their fa
" preme offices and aileinblies." What is meant
here by supreme offices ? There were none in
Rome but the dictators, and they were appointed
by the senate, at least until Marius annihilated
the senate, by making the tribes omnipotent.
Consuls could not be called supreme officersin any
sense. What is meant by supreme aHemblies ?
There were none but the senate. The Roman
people never had the power of electing a repre
sentative aflembly.—" So long as this custom con
" tinucd, and merit took place, the people made
" ihifttokeepandincreafe their liberties." This
custom never took place, and, strictly speaking,
the Roman people never enjoyed liberty. The
senate was sovereign till the people set up a per
petual dictator.
" When this custom lay neglected, and the
" stream of preferment began to run along with
" the favor anclpleafure of particular powerful
" men, then vice and compliance making way
" for advancement, the people could keep their
" liberties no longer ; but both their liberties
" and theinfelves were made the price of every
" man's ambition and luxury." But when was
this ! Precisely when the people began, and in
proportion as they approached to, an equality of
power with the s enate, and to that state of things
which our author contends for ; so that the whole
force of his reasoning and examples, when they
come to bs analyzed, conclude against him.
The eighth reason, why the people in their as
semblies are the best keepers of their liberty, is,
" because it is they only that are concerned in
" the point of liberty."—lt is agreed that the
people in their aflemblies, tempered by another
coequal aflembly, and an executive coequal with
either, are the best keepers of their liberties. But
it is denied that in one aflembly, collective or re
presentative, they are the best keepers : it may
be reasonably questioned, whether they are not
the worst ; because they are as sure to throw away
their liberties, as a monarch or a senate untem
peredare to take them ; with this additional evil,
that they throw away their morals at the fame
time ; whereas monarclis and senates femetimes
by severity preserve them in some degree. In a
simple democracy, the firft citizen, and the better
fort of citizens, are part of the people, and are
equally " concerned" with any others " in the
" point of liberty." But is it clear that in other
forms of government " the main interest and
" concernment, both of kings and grandees, lies
" either in keeping the people in utter ignorance
" what liberty is, or eli'e in allowing and pleasing
" them only with the name and shadow of liberty
" instead of the substance ?" It is very true that
knowlege is very apt to make people uneasy
wnder an arbitrary and oppressive government :
but a simple monarch or a sovereign senate, which
is not arbitrary and oppressive rho absolute, if
such cases can exist, would be interested to pro
mote the knowlege of the nation. It must,
however, be admitted, that simple governments
will rarely if ever favor the dispersion or know
lege among the middle and lower ranks of peo
ple. But this is equally true of simple demo
cracy : the people themselves, if uncontrouled,
will never long tolerate a freedom of inquiry,
debate, or writing ; their idols mull not be reflec
ted 011, nor their ichemes and actions fc?miied,
upon pain of popular vengeance, which isnotlefs
terrible than that of despots or lovereign iena
tors.
An ESSAY on FREE TRADE and FINANCES.
Written by a citizcn of Philadelphia in 1783.
(Continued from No. XL.)
TO escape the ruinous effwfts of this mode of
supply, I think every exertion fliould be made
to obtain our supplies at home ; it is certainly
very plain our country is not exhaufled, it is full
of every kind of supply which we need, and
nothing further can be neceflary, than to find
tliofe avenues from the sources of wealth in the
hands of individuals, which lead into the public
treasury, tliofe ways and proportions that are
moftjufl, inoft equal, and moil easy to the peo
ple. This is the firft great art of finance, that
of economy in expenditures, is the next. Any
body may receive money and pay it out; borrow
money and draw bills ; but to raise and manage
the internal revenue, so as to make the wealth
of the country balance the public expenditures,
is not so easy a talk, but yet I think noc so hard
as to be impracticable ; unless this can be done,
the greatefl conceivable abilities mull labor in
vain, for it is naturally impoflible that any ellate
which can not pay its expenditures, fliould con
tinue long without embarraflinent and diminu
tion, the load of debtmuft continually increase,
and the interell will make a continual addition
to that debt, and render the eflate more and
more unable every year to clear itfelf ; bur if
the estate can pay its expenditures, it is the
heighth of n\adnefsnot to do it. If revenues can
be l'pared fufficient to discharge the interefl of
the debt, so as to flop its increase, the estate may
be saved, and a future increase of revenue may
in time wipe off the principal ; but 110 hope is
left, if interefl upon interefl may continue to
accumulate. And as the interefl of every indi
vidual is infeperably conneCled with the public
credit or state of the finances, it follows that
this affair becomes a matter of the utmofl concern
and very important moment to every person in
the community, and therefore ought to be at
tended to as a matter of the liigliefl national
concern ; and no burden ought to be accounted
too heavy, which is fufficient to remedy so great
a mifchief. It may be objected to all this,°that
the duties I propose are so extremely high, that
firft, They will hurt our trade : And Tecond, Can
have no chance of obtaining a general consent. To
the firft I answer—As far as this tax tends to les
sen the importation of hurtful luxuries and use
less consumptions, it is the very object I have in
view ; and it is so very light on all other arti
cles, that the burden will be almofl insensible.
But as to the second objection—it is in vain to
trifle with a matter of such weight and importance,
or weary our people with small plans and remi
dies utterly inadequate to the purpose. In
weighty matters, weak half allured attempts will
appear to every one to be labor loft, and a ridi
culous disproportion of the means to the end ;
it is better in itfelf, as well as more likely to
succeed with the people, to take flrong hold,
and, with a bold firm aflurance, propose some
thing, which when done, will be an adequate
and effectual remedy.—Our national debt, inclu
ding the supplies for theprefent year, I am told,
by the Financier's estimate delivered to Congress,
amounts to about thirty-five millions of dollars'
the annual interefl of which will be some what
above two millions of dollars, which, I think,
may be railed by thetax I propose ; tho it is im
poflible to tell with much precision, what the
proceeds of a tax will be which has not been tri
ed, it is very plain that the proceeds will be large,
and so calculated as to be almofl wholly a clear
f'a\ ing, not to fay a benefit to the country ; and
if there should be deficiencies, a small additional
tax may be laid in the usual way to supply them.
Our annual expenditures, on the peace eftabliffi
ment, may, I think, be reduced to a quarter or
third of a million dollars, and perhaps, if our
national debt was liquidated as it ought to be,
a great saving might be made both of principal
and interefl ; but the detail of tliefe matters is in
every ones power who hasleifure and proper doc
cuinents to make the calculations Without de
fending to minutiae, I only mean to examine the
great principles of resource and mode of supply
which is within our power, and give my reasons
as clear a.-» I can tor adopting a practical trial
Such a practice would doubtless discover many
things which noforefight can reach, and experi
ence only can elucidate.- it is anuntrodden path
which 1 recommend, and tho it can not be per
fectly known yet it seems to have such an appear
ance of advantage as deserves a trial. The ex
pence and difficulty of collection will be no o-reat!
er on the high tax I propose, than it wouldTje on
a trifling one, which would produce less than a
tenth part of thefupply which this would e
niih, and therefore, if it ihould be j u dp- e d
dent to make the trial, I think it most nlf/"'
1>«:,o wk* it up on such , Urgt M.
it fufficiently productive, to become an I t
worthy of strong effort and persevering dilligeu f
in order to give it full effect. s^ce,
( To be continued.)
CONGRESS ov the UNITED STATES~~
Begun and held at the City of Ncw-York, on Wednefd™ r' ,
ot March, t)ne Thousand Seven Hundred a;ia Ei g kv_\f n ™
An ACT for eitablilhing the SALARIES us the
executive OFFICERSof GO VERNMENT
their ASSISTANTS and CLERKS.
c , f'' b "* Senate and Hafe cj ReprefmUtiuts tftkt V, -id
Statu ofAmcrua m Longrefi That there (ball be allc j
to the officer* hereafter mention,), the following
payable quarterly at the Treasury of Ihe United Stales ■ n «f
Secretary of the Treasury thr«* thousand five hundred
Secretary in the department of State, three thousand live hundred
dollars; to the Secretary in the departmeut of war, three thou,
(and dollars ; to the Comptroller of the Treasury, two thoulai.d
dollars ; to the Auflitor, fifteen hundred dollars; tonhe Treasurer
two thouf„i.d dollars; to the Rafter, twelve hundred and fiftJ
dollars; to the Governor of the Welter. Territory, for his I'alarv
as such, and for discharging the duties of Superintendent of U
dian affairs in the northern department, two thousand dollars
to the three Judges of the Werfem Territory, each c , g ht hundred
dollars; to the Afliftant ot the Secretary of the Treasury, fifteen
hundred dollars ■ to the Chief Ckrk. in the department of State
C'gln hundred dollars ; to the Chief Clerk in the department of
war, fix hundred dollars . To the Secretary of the Wetter.! Ter
ntory seven hundred and fifty dollars ; to the principal Cl-ik
ot the Comptroller, eight hundred dollars; to theprincipalClerk
ot the Audffor, iix hundred dollars; to the principal ClerS of,|»
rrcafurcr fix hundred dollars.
And be it further enafled, That the heads of the three depart
mcnts firft above mentioned, lhall appoint such Clerks therein
refpettively as thevfliafl find necefl'ary, and the salary of fjid
Clerks refpeflively lhall not exceed the rate offive hundred dollars
per an nuii).
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House aj fieprefmtattm.
JOHN ADAMS, Ficc-PrtJuiuit of the I'mti Stiui,
and Prefiicnf of fa Smite.
approved, sirTiMßtk the nth, 1789.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefdevt of the United Stilti.
THE NATIONAL MONITOR No. XX.
Be steady patriots to your public trust,
A ficklc L<giflature is unjust; ,
Perverse, capricious, positive and vain,
Should fcraplis govern, grumblers would complain.
MANKIND generally acknowlege the ma fit,
and importance of government s l>ut jew will recti
nize their individual duty to support and defend the
inflitution. As it originated in necefpty, so 'its exig
ence appears to be perpetuated more from that (auft
than from the rcafon and fitnefs of things. To ■ahut
else cat: be imputed the uniform conduCi ofthetivlliii}
world with refpeCl to this momentous concern. Mm
grow difgufled with old eflablijhments, and clavior
for new ones : They anticipate every bleffmg from
change : But under the wife J} inflitutions, the voict
of discontent and sedition is heard. They give Mr
fll ffrages for their bejl men, and immediately find
fat/It with the work of their own hands—the agents of
their own choice. This is not an exaggeration; expe
rience ha< teflified to its truth. To what Jhall we at
tribute this propensity, which militates so efentiall)
with human happiness ? It is owing to the serf utility
of human nature; a quality which requires all the
wisdom, fortitude and address which can result from
the bejl principles, and bejl experience, to counting
its baneful effeCis.
While the New Conf)itutiln was in its ratifying
progress, this querulous temper discovered itfelf; for
altho the whole continent was groaning under the
pressure of those evils which flowed from the inadequa
cy and weakness of the old confederation : Andtbt
the universal voice called for an alteration, yet as
soon as the deliberations of that enlightened bod) if
men, the chosen, confidential, tried patriots of America
who formed the Continental Convention, were known,
and the Constitution they hadformed, was propofii
to the people, the produCt of their labors was ajfailed,mif
conftruedand ridiculed; their motives were impeached;
their characters traduced; their abilities depreciated-,
and their whole conduCi in convention vilified. Which is
the charatter among the whole, that escaped the venom
of fiander, and the poisoned arrows of defamation ?
IVhile mankind continue what tbey are, a 'series of ftnultr
conduld may be expeCled.—There are manyperfons in
every society who hold opinions hojlile to all good govern
ment ; there are others who are offo captious anduneafj
a disposition, that itfeems as if they had fix or r. eternal
enmity to candor and peace : There are others, whoft
evil dispositions delight in disorder and coufufion.
These classes, united to a numerous body of difappo'tnted
expeClants, form the phalanx of opposition to " the
Powers that be." From such beings, the wises! and
best inflitution that ever existed, will meet with ajfaulti
—andfrom, attacking the form of the Government, the
transfer of their evil offices is to the adminifl ration of it-
It will therefore be of great consequence to the pedc?,
freedom and security of the Union, that particular at
tention' Jhould be paid to the sources, from whence
originate the insinuations, the flanders and clamfs
again ft public characters. This subjeCt Jhall fa P ur '
filed in a future number.
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden'*
Lane, near the New-York.— pr.M'J