[No. XLVII.]
THE TABLE T.—No. XLVII.
The author of the Tablet presents thefollowing Speculation fiom a
friend, for the forty-feventh number.
" The divfrfity of inter efls in the United States, un
jtr a wife government, will prove the Cement of the
Union-" '
FORMERLY, it was the policy of Great Bri
tain to diflejninatethe idea,that tlie seve
ral colonies were too much divided by religion,
manners and customs, by different interests, and
prejudices more obstinate than intereit, to alfimi
late and form a government of their own. It is
not remarkable that Britain fliould cheriffi and
diif'ufe an opinion so favorable to her power.
Andtho we have reason to lament, we have none
to wonder at, the degree of success which attend
ed her truly maternal endeavors. The inter
courfeof the colonies with her was much greater
than with <Jne another. It is known that people
are very susceptible of the opinions of thofewith
whom they have dealings. Our dealings were
with Britain almost exclusively, and we adopted
many of her favorite doctrines with a docility
and confidence which in fact, her conduct was
calculated to inspire. The leading men, who
gave a tone to the public lentiment in this coun
try, were Britons, or colonists as ardently at
tached as Britons themselves to tlje connection
with the mother country. There was an ap
parent utility in this error, which not only made
it plaufihle, but ftifled enquiry. Indeed the lub
jfCt at that time, would better Hand the tell of
disquisition than at present. The colonies were
filling with new people, who were so far from
having adopted the habits and manners of the
more ancient settlements, that they had not fuffi
ciently aflimilated with one another, to ailume a
national character.
But it is unneceflary to enumerate all the causes
which aoncurred to produce in the colonists a fpi
ritof mutual alienation and distrust. It is not
to be doubted that, in a long course of time, the
product of this cursed feed would have been a
imndant.—With infinite mifchiefs, the war
brought this good, it blasted it's vegetation.
However, some of these poisonous plants still
infect our fields, and are mingled with our liar
vefts.
When we express our surprise that these repul
sive prejudices continue to exist, we arc delired
to attend to the facts which it is pretended will
render them perpetual.
It is aflerted, that there is, at this day, so
great a diversity between the different States in
point of ' eligion, manners, habits and interests,
as to ronder the administration of a general go
vernment inconvenient, and perhaps impractica
ble. Certainly this doctrine has not novelty to
recommend it. For ever since the jealousy of
Britain adopted the maxim, divide et impera, it
h»s been inculcated by her millionaries and pro
fclytes with all imaginable zeal and foleinnity.
Many appeal to the supposed fact,that the east
ern and southern States have opposite interests.
Undoubtedly a. diversity of interests is one of the
most fruitful sources of contention and hatred.
Too much stress however, is generally laid upon
it. For such interests, tho different are not al
ways repugnant. The greatmodern improvement
m government, is to leave individuals at liberty
to seek their advantage their own way—partial
to none but protecting all. We cannot subdivide
a society fufficiently to avoid this fuppoled diver
-•. l_he fmallelt will be found to comprehend
jarring interests, and to be formed by a conge
ties of heterogeneous and materials,
which, merely in consequence of being accumu
lated, tend to fermentation and diflolurion. In
. '. we stall perceive that the interest of each
individual is exclusive of that of all others, until
B t,v- ernment combines them, and makes ittne ad
jutage of each one to advance the prosperity
°f the whole.
Uniformity of faith is an useless chimera.
Uniformity of interests is equally so. Diversity
'ft both produces difcuflion. Men ref'pect one
another's opinions, and become liberal, they en
quire and perhaps find truth : The tendency is,
to rouse them from an indolent neglect of pub
icbufmefs, and to check the natural pronenefs
°i all parties to excess.
It is very certain that the employments of the
°u hern and ealtern States are different : But
'tis denied that their interests are incompatible.
tiie wealth and power of one does not tend to
"lake the other weak and poor, it is difficult to
conceive, why they jQiould be mutually jealous.
nutting the idea of feperate and hostile pow-
f rs ' the of one State might well
1 alarming to her neighbors. But thanks to the
pod sense of our countrymen, the new Confti-
Uao " as baniihed a principle of state policy
WEDNESDAY, September 23, 1739.
which ihould make a patriot Ihiver with horror.
In every other relpect, each has an interest in
the prosperity of the whole. If rice and indigo
produce wealth, thepeople and the taxable pro
perty are encreafed. The consumption of dutied
articles encreales. The man is
as much relieved and benefited as if the tax was
raised from his next county. The navigation
and filbery of the States will furnifh the means of
a na,vy to prote<sl the export of the ttaple articles.
England and France are rivals in trade as well
as power, because each endeavors to supplant
the other in the sale of the like commodities.
England would excel France in the silk manufac
ture. And France endeavors to beat her rival out
of the woolen and hard ware branches. Their
vindictive regulations have, perhaps, mutually
injured each other infinitely more than either
has benefited licrfelf. But what foundation is
there for such a competition in America. Virgi
nia raises tobacco. New-England never can be
come her competitor in that culture. The rice,
indigo and cotton are confined by nature to the
more southern Sates. The culture of corn ad
mits of no rivalry. The consumers will grow up
to the market. For the human species will
encrgafe in every country in proportion to the re
gular means of subsistence.
A man who Ihould attempt to sow jealousy among
the New-England States, or between Pennfylva
niaand New-Jersey, byalledging thatthey have
jarring interests, would certainly be laughed at.
His fuccels would not be fufficiently feared to
make him detelled. Yet these are manufactur
ing States : And in every market their people are
contending for a preference. These are the
States whom diverlity of interests should divide.
The market may be over Hocked with fifh, oil or
lumber. This will affeifi the dealers in those ar
ticles. But how can it atfe<st the sale of tobacco ?
The conclusion is, that no large counpry in the
world is so little divided by oppoiite interests.
The eastern and southern States are necellary to
one another : And nature has interposed to for
bid their becoming commercial rivals. What one
raises, the other wants, and when one prospers,
all will partake. If the great llaples should fail,
navigation would decline. Should our own sea
men and {hipping be diininilhed, the staple States
might, and, in cafe of an European war, cer
tainly would want a conveyance for their valua
ble exports to the market. In peace and war,
their trade would be merely passive—The mark
ers and purchasers would be chosen for them, and
they would not be in a condition to feck the best
for themselves. This is evinced by the great suc
cess and rapid growth of our East India trade.
By means of poilefling (hipping, some of the
States have fought, in the extremities of the
earth, new markets for the sale of their butter
and salted provisions, which would never have
fought them.
Without violent evidence, a patriot Ihould not
admit that the interests of the southern and east
ern parts of the Union are oppoiite. It will re
quire fomerefle<ftiop to fupprefshis wonder, that
nor only without evidence, but against the most
palpable,it ever has been the creed of the country.
It is time to think more juftly,and more rationally,
which is the fame thing. The internal commerce
of our country is the molt to be cherilhed. It as
fords the quickest returns, and the profit is not
divided, as that of foreign trade is, with stran
gers. We ought to look forward with pleasure
to the rapid extention of our home market, al
ready vail, and soon to become a world of our
own.
(to be continued.)
NEW-YORK, September 23, 1789.
rROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
IN SENATE.
The Conventions of a number of the States having, at the time of their
adopting the Lonjlitution, exprefjed a desire, in order to prevent mis
conjlrudion or ahufe oj its powers, that further declaratory and res- jj
triclive clauf sJhould be added: And as extending the ground o)pub
lic confidence in the will bejl injure the beneficent ends
of its itifiitntion —
RFSOLVED, by the Senate and House of Reprefcntatives of ,
the United States of America in Congrefsaflembled, two thirds of !
both Houl'es concuring, That the -following articles be proposed :
to the Legislatures of the several States, as Amendments to the Con
iHtution of the United States, ail or any of which articles, when 1
ratified by three fourths of the said Legifldtures, to be valid to all
intents and purposes, as part of thf said Confli'ution, viz.
ARTICLES in addition to, and amendment of, the Constitu
tion of the United States ot America, proposed by Congress, apd
ratified by the Legifiatures of the several States, pursuant to the
fifth article of the original Constitution.
ARTICLE THE FIRST.
After the firft enumeration, required by the firft article of the
Constitution, there Avail be one Representative for every thirty
thousand, until thenumber shall amount to one hundred ; to which
number one representative shall be added for every fubfe-qircnt in
creafeof forty thousand, until the Representatives shall amount to
two hundred, to which number one Representative shall be added
for every subsequent increase of sixty thousand perfous.
r Pub'lijhed (jii W edtiefJay and Saturday .J
ARtjc E THE SECOND. *
No law, varying the compenfdtion for tile services of the Sena
tors and Representatives, (hall take etfe£t, until an ele&ioh of Re
presentatives shall haveiniervened.
ARTICLE THE THIRD.
Congrrfs shall make no law establishing articles of faith, or a
mode of worship, or prohibiting the free exercise of religion, or
abridging thefreedom of speech, or of the prels, or the right of the
people peaceably to afTemble, and to petition to the government
for a redrefsof grievances.
ARTICLE THE FOURtH.
A well regulated militia, being necessary to the fccurity of a free
State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be
infringed.
ARTICLE THE FIFTH.
No soldier shall, in time of peace, be quartered in any house,
without the confe-nt of the owner, nor in time of *war, but in a
manner to be prescribed by law.
ARTICLE THE SIXTH.
The right of the people to belecure in their persons, houses, pa
pers, and effe£ls, against unreafonaM fcarches and fcizures, ftiall
not be violated, and no warrants shall ilTue, but upon probable
:aufe, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly defcrib
ng the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized
ARTICLE THE SEVENTH.
No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwif<#
infamous crime, unless on a presentment orindiflment of a Grand
Jury, except in cases ariiing in the land or naval forces, or in the
militia, when in a&ual service in time of war, or public danger ;
nor (hall any person be fubjett for the fame offence to be twice put
in jeopardy of life or limb ; nor shall be compelled in any crimi
nal cafe, to be a witness against himfelf, nor be deprived of life,
liberty or property, without dueprocefs of law; nor shall private
property be taken tor public use without jilft compcnfation.
ARTICLE THE EIGHTH.
In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to
a speedy and public trial, to informed of the nature and caufc
of the accusation, to be confronted with the witnefles against him.
to have coinpuHoi y process for obtaining witnefles in his favor,
and to have the afjiftance of counsel for his defence.
ARTICLE THE NINTH.
Jn fuitsat common law, where the value in controversy shall ex
ceed twenty dollars, tht right of trial by jury shall be preserved,
and no fact, trifd by a jury, shall be otherwise re-examined in any
court of the United States, than according to the rules of the com
mon law.
ARTICLE THE TENTH.
Exceflive bail shall not be required, nor exceflive fines imposed,
nor cruel and unusual puniflimentsintlifted.
ARTICLE THE ELEVENTH.
The enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights, shall not
be construed to deny or difparagc others retained by the people.
ARTICLE THE TWELFTH.
The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitu
tion, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserVed to the States
refpe&ively, or to the people.
In the HOUSE cf REPRESENTATIVES,
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER iS, 1889.
Sketch of the Debate on the Salaries of th::
Judicial Department.
MR. GOODHUE moved to strike out 4JOO
dollars, the proposed salary of the Chief Jultice,
and to insert 3000.
Mr. Burke who was one of the committee on
the bill, said, that he had been oppofedtotlie
Turn ; but a majority being in favor of it, it was a -
iopted : He still thought it too much.
Mr. Lawrance (who was also one of thecom
mittee) observed that he had been in favor of the
Turn, and was so still. Ido not (said he) think it
is too much, considering the very important na
ture of the duties afligned to this officer, and the
high trust committed to his care. The Laws
and the Constitution of the United States are iu
his hands. To the Judges of the Supreme Court
we are to look for decisions on the moftintereft
ing points, and on those decisions causes of the
greatest poflible magnitude depend. The sum
proposed I do not think will be considered too
high ; there is a prediletflion among the people
in favor of their judges, it is the general opinion
that they should be well paid. This fentimentis
honorary to the people ; it is productive of the
happiest effects and ought to be encouraged. I
am willing to risk my popularity in giving my
vote for this sum. Ido not think it will be con
sidered too high. I should rather be for encreaf
ingtlian diminishing it. When we consider what
is paid to similar officers in other countries, we
find that thefefalaries bear no proportion to those
allowances. To induce gentlemen of the firft'a
bilities to come forward ; and to place them in
that situation which shall be above temptation,
you cannot give them a less sum. It will be of
very little consequence, that the Judges hold their
places during good behavior, if you do not make
them independent intheir falarirs. Iliope there
fore the sum will not be struck out.
Mr. Goodhue obferved,that he did not think
there was any propriety in refering to other
countries for exampleson this occasion. Circum
stances, said he, do not apply. We mull have
regard to the ideas of our own people, and to
the circumstances of our own country. And
the only enquiry, in my opinion, is, what has
been cuftomary,and what maybe necelfary in the
I present cafe. He then referred to the salaries
which are given in particular States, and tho in
some instances they are below what they ought
obe, yet they command the firft abilities. Thesum proposed in the bill is- so much beyond all ex
ample in any of the States, as will be considered
beyond the abilities of the people.
The grants we have already made,are in gene
ral so high, and will excite so much unealinefs,
that I was in hopes that we ihould nbt have pro
ceeded one step further in that line of policy.
I nope, Sir, the motion will obtain.
Mr. Benson urged the neceflity of an ample
allowance, in order to command the firlt abilities.
He said, there is no doubt, but plenty of candi
dates may be found who would serve lor 1500 dol
lars, or a less sum. Instances maybe mentioned
of persons offering to serve as Governor in some of
the States, for 500 dollars : But if it is intended
to have the office refpecftable by its being filled
with competent abilities—'a less sum than that
proposed will not be found adequate.
Mr. Ames observed, that he had frequently
heard in the House abitracft reasonings upon the
fubjett of salaries and compensations : But for
my part (said lie) 1 think such reasonings have
very little to do in the bufhiefs. The only en
quiry is, what sum is neceflary to command the
firft abilities in the refpecftive States.—The gen
tlemen fjom various quarters cdn determine with
a good degree of precision, for tliemfelves. I
think I can speak for the four New-England
State.*, —andfuppofe that 1500 dollars per annum
for this officer, wotild be an object to excite the
attention of men of the firftabilities in those States.
Gentlemen may be found who would make the
greatelt exertions to qualify themselves for the
o(:ice.—l hope, Sir, the motion for ftrikino; out
the sum will obtain.
Mr. Liver more and Mr. White spoke next,
and were both in favor offtrikingout 4Joo.
Mr. Vising advocated the sum in the report.
He stated the amount <;f the whole expence to be
incurred; and contrasted it with the benefits to
bederived to tli* United States, from the inlKtu
tion. Tiie object, said he, is to attract and com
mand the firft abilities. There are many gen
tlemen in the practice of law, whose abilities
command a greater income than 3000 dollars per
annum. Can it be expected that such persons
will relinquish their lucrative profeffions merely
for the honor of serving the United States? It
cannot be expected—and yet Sir, I presume the
very firlt abilities are the object to be obtained.
Mr. Gerry was in favor of the motion. He
went into a cfonflderation of the debts, taxes and
burthens of the people ; from thence urged the
neceflity ofthe utinolt prudence and economy in
our expenditures and appropriations. He refer
red to the situation of Great Britain, and contrail-'
ing our circumttances with theirs, he said the sa
lary of the Chief Justice ought to be about 4001.
sterling. He referred to what had been said
refpec'ting the incomes of lawyers, and observed
that he believed wherethere is one that gets 3000
dollars a year by his practice, there are twenty
who do not get one third of that sum. I con
ceive, said he, that a much less sum than that
proposed will command the firlt abilities upon
the continent.
Mr. Jackson said he dU4 not doubt the truth
of what the gentleman said refpecfting lawyers ;
but I wquW ask, said he, if the Judges of the Su
preme Court of the United States are to be taken
from the lowfcft class of lawyers ? There is no
doubt but that Judges may be obtained for jool.
but what kind of law—what decisions will you get
from such judges ? There are lawyers in some of
the States, who make from 1500 to 2000 guineas a
year by their great abilities : Will such men re
linqni/li their emoluments for the honor of serving
the United States?
I have received accounts from the southward
by which 1 find that gentlemen are declining
Public appointments 011 account of the fmallnefs
of the Jalaries. We ought to conlider the great
importance of this officer—that the lives, the pro
perties and rights of the citizens are to depend 011
his decisions—that the disputes between the dif
ferent States are to he finally fettled in this court
—that the preservation of the Constitution ofthe
United States and of the individual States de
pends in a 2;reat measure 011 the wisdom, impar
tiality and independency of this officer ; and in
cases of impeachment, the President of the Uni
ted States is to be tried by him—all the great
appeals, and matters of treaty, Sic. From
these considerations, the firft abilities ffiould be
procured—an ample and generous allowance
ought to be given, so that every possible induce
ment to an undue bias and influence may be taken
away.
Mr. Page spake againtl low salaries. Among
many other observations he said, that it; had been
considered by many, that low salaries were re
publican : But I am of a different opinion: It
will be found that low salaries are anti-republi
cat) ; and rlist if you reduce your officers to a
feanty allowance, you depreciate the government
you have eltabliflied.
Mr. S ,iith (S. C.) was opposed to a reduction
of the sum. He adverted to the circumstance of
railing ths salaries of the judges in England at
the accefCon of theprefent King : From the idea
of rendering thent more independent than they
had been. He then itated the amount of their
falarias, and thefituation of people hi that coun
try in refpetft to public burdens.
He then referedto the salaries of the Judges in
several of the States ; and pointed out the pro
portion of expence which the judiciary of the
State of South Carolina bore to the amount of
their whole civil lift, and made it one third,
whereas the judiciary of the United States would
not amount to one eighth. He then urged the
neceftity of holding out such inducements as would
influence the firft abilities to accept of the appoint
ment : He urged the importance of making the
Judges independent: He considered the judicial
department as the sheet anchor of the Conftitu
tion— A department of the firft consequence to the
Uniort—A department which in all civilized
countries is placed in an eligible and independ
ent situation.
Mr.Madison, after recapitulating theobferv
ations refpe<fting the firft abilities, laid, that it
ought to be coniidered, that these Judges must
make a new acquisition of legal knowledge.—
1 hey must have a familiar acquaintance with the
laws of every State.—They muftunderftand the
nature of treaties, and especially the treaties
now subsisting hetwen these States and foreign
countries, &c—These studies willabforba great
deal of their time.
When we conlidcr the duties that will de
volve upon them, they strike the mind as being
of the greatest magnitude.—They are the guar?
dians of the Laws tind of the Conftkution of the
United States—and I trust of the individual States
also.
When we consider the great and important
causes, in which opulent individuals will be par
ties, that are to come under their cognizance,
we must be struck with the propriety of shielding
thele Judges from all poflible aflaults of tempta
tion.—To these if we add important cases of
treaties, in which the greatest interests will be
involved, the idea will receive additional force.
Upon the whole considering the circumstances of
the people, I (hall disagree to the sum proposed
by the committee, but at the fame time 1 fliall
not agree to the proposed reduction.
Mr. Stone, Mr. Gerry and Mr. Jackson ad
ded some few observations—when the question
for ftrikingout 45*00 was carried, and 4000 being
proposed for insertion was also carried, 27 to 24.
Every article in this bill was opposed and ad
vocated upon the foregoing, or ftmilar princi
ples.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 19.
The House took iy> the report qf the commit,
tee of the whole 011 the Bill to establish the salaries
of the judicial department. The salaries report
ed were severally confirmed, except the salary of
the Chief Justice, which was reduced to 3500 dol
lars, and the Diftriift Judgeof Georgia, from 1600
to 1500 dollars. The salary of the District Judge
of Kentucky was increased from 800 to 1000 dol
lars, and the Attorney General reduced from 2000
to 1 500.
hi going through the report Mr. White, mov
ed that it (liould be so amended as to fix the salary
of the Diftrkt Judge of Maflachufetts at 1000 dol
lars. He observed that this was not intended to
affect Massachusetts alone, but to operate through
the whole system ; if he succeeded in that motion
he should make a similar one with regard to the
other States. 1 hat the Judiciary system was re
garded by the people with a more jealous eye
than any other part of the Constitution ; that he
conceived it both unjust and impolitic to give the
Diftritf: Judges higher salaries than the fudges of
the several States : Unjust, because their duties
would not be so burdensome ; and impolitic be
cause it would degrade the State Judiciaries by
placing a subordinate federal judge in a more ex
alted or more eligible situation than the State
Judges. That 1000 dollars being the salaries of
the Judges in Maflachufetts and Virginia, lie sup
posed it might be nearly the average throughout
the continent. Mr. White observed that he had
never called for the yeas and nays—that he had
endeavored to ftifle the practice in its birth ; but
being then over ruled, and the lneaftire having
been adopted on numberless important fubietfls
lie hoped he lhould be indulged. The motion for
the yeas and nays was over ruled. The question
being put on the proposed amendment to the re
port ol the committee, was negatived.
The Secretary of the Treasury, purfuantto the
order of the House of the rytli inft. reported an
estimate of the funis requisite to be appropriated
during the present session of Congrels, towards
defraying the expences of the civil lift, and of the
department of War, to the end of the present
yeai, and tor fatisfvirtgfuch warrants as have been
drawn by the late Board of Treasury, which vet
remain unpaid. J
A meflkge was received from the Senate, accom
panying a bill for regulating the process in the
court of the United States. Refered to a com
hiittee or the whole on Monday.
Also the Jud, c i a i bill, in which the Senate had
cyncured with leveral of the amendments propo
sed by the House, and disagreed to others
The House proceeded to consider the amend
ments made by the Senate to the bill for amend-
ingthe Constitution of the United Statu t
of which they negatived, and others they cm, 6
ed in ; but not having time to <*o rhL l r "
fame, a djourned. g ° throu gh the
MONDAY/ SEPT. 21
Those amendments to the Judiciary bill •
which the Senate had not concured Were i
up, and the House receded from the fame)
agreed with the Senate. ' a " l '
The report of the Secretary of the Tread™,
was read, and refered to a committee con si r, 7
of Mr. W. V „r, K M (S . C .)M,
The amendments of the Senate to the anS'
ments proposed by the House to the Conftitn,;!
were again taken up-Some were agreed to a ,!i
others nonconcured : Meflrs M a <J,j on> Sk/*
and Vtnmg were appointed a committee to confix
with a committee of the Senate on those amen
ments in which the two Houfesdo not agree
Mr. Jackson moved that leave be e i Vfnt .
bring in a bill to alter the time fixed for the a,
nual meeting of Congress. This motion after
a bill" W3S Cal " rie<1 ' a " d leave S' ven tu bring in
™e, H °ufe then proceeded in the difcuffionof
the Bill for hxing the temporary and permanent
leatoi the government.
Mr. Madison objected to that clause of the bill
which provides, that New-York (hall be the ten
porary residence : He said, it is contrary to the
Constitution—as it deprives the two Houfesof
i lie power to exercise a right expressly vested in
them by the Constitution-, of adjourning without
the consent of the Supreme Executive": Should
the clause remain, this bye law must be repealed
to which the consent of The President must be
obtained before the two Houses could adjourn;
He moved tlierefore that the clause fhouldbe
Itruck out.
Mr. Lawrance and Mr. Ames, replied to Mr.
Madison : They contended that the consent of
i he President is neceflary to every act of theLe
and that the objection applied withe
Hual force against a permanent as against a tem
porary eftablifliment of the feat of government.
Mr. Lee, and Mr. Boudinot supported the
fentiinent of Mr. Madison—and Mr. Jackson,
and Air. Smith spake in opposition to it: The
vote being taken for striking out the words, it
palled in the negative.
Mi*. Madison then movad to strike out the
word " permanent" as it was not a term made nfe
of in the Conftitufcion. This motion was nega
tived.
It was then ordered, That the bill be engrofled
for a third reading to-morrow.
A meflage was received from the Senate,inform
ing that they had concurred in the bill forefta
blidling the salaries of the Judicial department
ivith amendments.
The amendments were to raise the salary of
the Chief Justice from 3?oo to 4000 dollars—the
salaries of the Alfociate Judges of the Supreme
Court from qoooto isoo —that of the Judgeofthe
DiftriiSt of Maine from 800 to 1000—and that of
the Attorney General from 1500102000. The
House agreed to these amendments, except the
iaft.
A refelution was received from the Senate,that
it be recommended to the several States to pass
laws to make it flie duty of the keepers of their
leveral goals, to receive, and keep therein per
sons commited under the authority of the United
States, until they be discharged by due courfeof
law. The Unitfed States to pay jo cents amonth,
for each person confined, and likewise to support
all perfoiis commited thereto for offences against
the United States.
Mr. Wadsworth, from the committee on the
report of the Secretary of the Treasury, brought
in a bill, by which appropriations are made tor
defraying of the expences of the civil lift, thede
partment of war, for warrants ifliied by the late
Seperintendantof Finance, for warrants ifluedhy
Ihe late Board of Treasury, and to pay the inva
lid pensioners.
This bill was read a firft and second time, and
committed to a committee of the whole to be ta
ken up to-morrow.
The report on the petition of the Baron df
Glaubeck, was agreed to, allowing him fifteen
months pay as a Captain in the late Continenta
Army.
A meflage was received from the Senate, th Jt
they had receded from the amendment for rat -
ing the salary of the Attorney General, an
had appointed a committee of conference on t if
difagreeiug votes of the Houses on the auien
ments to the Constitution. .
On motion of Mr. Vining the report oft
committee on the petition of the public creditor*
was taken up and agreed to.
On morion of Mr. Gerry, the House refolded,
that the Secretary of the Treasury be aire
to apply to the Supreme Executives of rh e el ,
ral States for the state of their public debts,
the funds appropriated for the difchargeo
principal and interest of the fame ; an,
anioiint of the loan-office and other fectintic
the State Treasuries.
A djourned.TUESDAV, SETT. 22.
The committee appointed to examine the en
rolled bills reported, that they had examined the
bill for establishing the salaries of the Judges of
the federal Courts, and of the Attorney Gener
al—the bill for allowing compenfatioils to the
President and Vice President, and the bill for
establishing the Judicial Courts, and found them
correct. The Speaker then signed the fame.
The engrolled bill for establishing the Seat of
Government for the United States was read the
third time ; and on the queltion, shall this bill
pass ? Mr. Carroll called for the Ayes and
Noes, which are as follow—
AYES. Mejfrs. Ami's, Baldwin, Benfon, Contee, Clvmer.
Fitzfimons, Hoyd, Foster, Gale, Gilman, Goodhue, Grout,
Hartley, Hathorn, Jackson, Livermore, Lawrance, Leonard, P.
Muhlenberg, Partridge, Van Ranfellaer, Scott, Seney, Sherman,
Sylveller, Smith, (M.) Stone, Thatcher, Trumbull, Wadfworth,
fyynhoop. 31.
NOES. Mejfrs. Boudinot, Bland, Burke, Cadwallader.Carroll,
Coles, Lec, Mddifon, Matthews, Moore, Parker, Schureman,
Smith, (S. C.) Sumptcr, Tucker, Vining, White. 17.
Mr. Goodhue introduced a resolution remind
ing the vote for adjourning on the 23d, and to
fix the time of adjournment on the 26th instant.
This was adopted.
The bill for altering the time of the annual
meeting of Congress was read a fecoiul time, and
referred to a committee of the whole to be taken
up to-morrow.
The bill to recognize and adapt to the Consti
tution of the United States, the establishment of
the troops on the frontiers, by the ordinanoes
of the late Congress, was taken up in commit
tee of the whole.
Mr. Jackson proposed a clause, to empower
the President of the United States to establish
ports, to raise troops, and call forth the militia of
the States of Georgia and South-Carolina, in cafe
the Creek Indians refufe to treat with the Com
milfioners, or violate the conditions agreed to at
■ the ensuing negociation.
This motion after a lengthy conversation was
agreed to so far as it refpe<fts calling forth the mi
litia,or feuding part of the troops 011 the establish
ment, that State, should the President think
proper.
The committee having gone thro the bill, and
made several amendments, they rose, and the
Chairman reported them to the House—The
House immediately took the amendments into
consideration, and agreed to the fame. It was
then ordered that the bill be engrofied for a third
reading to-morrow.
A liieliage was received from the President of
the United States, by Mr. Secretary Lear, with
theatft for allowing compensations to the mem
bers of the two Houses and their refpedtive of
ficers, which has received his approbation and
signature.
A meflage was received from the Senate, by
Mr. Secretary O ris,'informing the House, that
the ad for the temporary establishment of the
Pofl-Office, was returned to the Senate with the
approbation and signature of the President.—
Alio, that the Senate concurred in the resolution
ot the House to adjourn the 26th instant.
Mr. Blamd moved, that leave be given to
bring in a bill, to amend and explain a clause in
the Coasting Atft, which was granted, and Mr.
Bland, Mr. Goodhue and Mr. Benson were ap
pointed a committee for the purpose.
Adjourned till to-inorrow ten o'clock.
EUROPEAN ACCOUNTS, BY THE LAST ARRIVALS.
LONDON. AUGUST 5.
The following arc copies of the letters of Monsieur de Mont
morin and the Duke of Dorset.
of Monjieur Montmorin to the Due de L,iancourt r President of the
National Afjembly.
" VerfaiUcs, 2jth July, 1789.
M. President,
" Inc Ambaflador of England has intrcated to have the honor,
"without loss of time, to communicate the following fetter to you.
I have thought it so much less in my power to resist his applica
tion, as it is ceitain that he apprized me, in effett, verbally in the
beginning of June last, of a plot against the port ps Brest. Those
"who meditated this scheme desired certain succors for the expe
dition, and to have an asylum in England. The Ambaflador did
not give me any indication relative to the authors of this projett,
2nd he assured me that they were absolutely unknown to him.
ne enquiries that I have been able to make, after machinations
0 uncertain, have been as fruitlefs as they ought to be; and I
lave been obliged to confine myfelf to engage the Count de Lu
zerne to give the Commandant of Brest precautions to double
"isvigilance and a&ivity.
" I have the honor to be, See.
T " De MONTMORIN."
titer of the Duke of Dorset, Ambassador at the Court of France, to the
Count de Montmorin, Secretary of Foreign Affairs.
Paris, 26th July, 1789.
" Sir,
It has been communicated to me from divers quarters, that
en eavors have been made to insinuate that my court had foment
e in part the troubles thaj have afflitted the Capital for some
time part; that (he had taken advantage of the present opportuni
yto Lake up arms against France; and tl\at even a fleet was upon
t lecoaft to co-operate with the discontented party. Totally
e i, tU j CO^ as these rumors are, they appear to me to have
rc ? . l^c National AfTembly: And the Courier National
lc h gives an account of the fittings of the 23d and 24th of this
"onth, leaves suspicions which give me so much more p£in, as
<( v w ' ' ,ow f ar my court is from deserving them.
, Excellency wijl call to mind several conventions
1 lc , with you in the beginning of June last, the torrid
°t t at had been proposed relative to the port ot Brest: the
R l 'ard tV K to P ut 'he King and h,s Ministers upon their
r,,,/ ' ot my court which corresponds with my fenti-
Va t revolts with horror from the proposition that
Sma e : In fine, the aflurances of attachment which she re
peatcd to the King aud the Nation, enabled you to itiake known
to his Majesty hovf much I paiticipated in the emotion which the
treachery mud give him.
As my Court has infinitely at heart to preserve the good har
mony which subsists between the two nations, and to remove all
contrary suspicions, I intreat you, Sir, to submit this litt r,
without delay, to the President of the National AUVmbly. You
are aware how elTeiitial it is to me to juaify my own conduct,
md that of my Court, and to do my utmost to destroy the etfcdt
of the iuftdious insinuations which have been so induitrioully pro
pagated. 7
" It is of infinite importance to me that the National AfTembly
Ihould know my sentiments, that they (hould do jultice to those
of my nation, and to the open conduit which they have conllant
ly held towards France, lince I had the honor to be h?r orgjn.
" I have it so much more at heart, that you (hou!d not lose a
moment in making this known, as I owe not only to my perlonal
haratter, to my country, and to the Englilh that arc here t td
protcft them from all the reflections that may arifc from the m'f
reprefentation. •' i have the honor to be, &c.
" DORSET."
The happy effect produced by the Duke of Dor
set s letter is luch, that every generous Englifh
mail will read with pleasure the following extratft
from a Speech made in the National AfTembly oil
the occasion.
" A people who owe their name to the antique
si anknefs of their ancestors, are at length cleter
mined to ihake off the unworthy chains with which
tyrant i have loaded their arms. It is no longer the
leaguing and seditious people armed by fanaticifm
against themselves under Charles IX. and Henry
111. It isnolonger the people of the Fronds, who
basely harnefled to the car of Louis XIV. holds out
toEurope the convulsions of an energy which slaves
never can poilefs. It is no longer the people, who
undei Louis XV. fang their defeats and victories
in the fame tone. It is a brave who, after
along captivity, awaken to the remembrance of
their being born freemen, who wiih to be free, and
will perish or attain their objetil.
" And who will take upon them to oppose so ref
petftable an energy > Can it be you, you frank and
courageous nation, who have Ipilt such seas of
blood for Liberty ? Oh, Englishmen ! the error of
a moment has made us presume it poflible. The
wicked system of Court Policy, an ancient and
foolifh rivalihip, which ages have been unable to
destroy, induced us to dread an event which would
have dishonored the glorious cause of freedom and
humanity. But all our doubts are at an end : Our
ardor will be doubled by pofleffingyour esteem and
approbation. Your worthy representative has
taught us yesterday, that the brave}} nation in the
■ world is a/fa the mo]}generous /"
the form ofthe new constitution of
FRANCE.
The committee has reported its deliberations
on the fubjeiit of the New Porni of Government.
The Archbilhop of Bourdeaux, M. de Clermont
T onnerre, and M. Mounicr, read the preliminary
observations to this important objed: before the
National Aflembly. The Abbe Syeyes has like
wise made known his very valuable treatise on
the Rights of Mankind : M. Mounier has done the
fame ; both point to the fame objedl, though they
take different ways to come at it.
The principal heads of the Form of Govern
ment which the Committee has recommended,
are as follows :
That the National AfTembly shall be composed
of two Houses of Parliament : [The committee all
agree in this point, but they find a difficulty to decide in
what manner the two chambers of Parliament Jhall be
organized—-fame are of opinion that both Jhould be elec
tive—others, that the King Jhould have the power to
nojninate the members of the fir ft,in the fame manner as
our House of Lords is created.]
That the States General fliould be permanent,
and meet yearly.
That the King fliall have the Treasury of the
State under his protection.
That he shall hnve the fnpreme and absolute
command over the army.
That he shall have the nomination to all places,
civil as well as ecclesiastical.
That he shall have a revenue for the mainte
nance of his dignity,even mors considerable than
he has allowed him at present.
Such are the principal points on which the Con
stitution is to be raised.
The following are authentic copies of the letter
of the King of France to Mr. Ni?ckar, and his
answer.
" 1 HAVE been deceivedrefpeflingyou. Violence
has been committed on my char after. Behold me at
length enlightened. Come, Sir, come without delay,
and resume your clai?nto my confidence, which you have
acquired forever. My heart is known to you. I ex
pe(lyou with all my nation, and lvery fmcerely fhart
in its impatience. On which, I pray God, Sir, until
your return, to take you into his holy and worthy keep
ing. " LOUIS."
Answer of Mr. dated Geneva, July 23,
in the Evening, and received by His Majesty the
26th.
" SIRE,
" I HAVE this in ft ant received the letter wit!:
which it has pleafedyour Majesty to honor me. I wan:
etpreffions to teftijy to you the tender emotions I have
experienced on the return of your favor : Jt penetrates
me more and more with the obligation I had long im
posed on myflf, of always diftingtiifhing in your Ma-
jejly, the just Friuce, the hot:eft man, who can operate
only the happ'utefs oj the nation ■when he acts from him
felf, from the powerful Monarch who governs it, and
who is frequently expofsd to do what is rej ug.-iant, 13
his heart.
'■ I ouly take the time, Eire, to wipe away the tears
which your letter has made me shed, and 1 fly to '.hey
yottr orders< I Jhall not bear to you my heart \ that is
a property you have acquired ky a thoufund titles, and
to which Ino longer have any claim.
" I reckon with impatience, and am striDing to ac
celerate the moments which are me to pro
teed to ojfer you tf>s lafl drop of my biood,my feeble tal
ents, my entire devotion so your sacred person, and the
profound refpeß with which I am %
" Sire,
" Tour Majesty's most humble,
" Mojl obedient,
" And most zealous servant,
" NECK JR."
Mr. Neckar arrived at Versailles on Tuesday
nlglit, in perfedt health, and yesterday, at two
y'clock, waited on rhp National Allembly, where
ne was received with such applauffcs and emotions,
far beyond all applauseS, as constitute the molt
glorious recompence this world is able to bellow
dn virtue.
At Stralbonrggreat violence has been commited.
The Chief Magistrate was obliged to escape in a
cart load of tanner's bark. The populace forced
the town house, and demolished all the furniture,
took pofleffion of 40001. fterl. of the public cafli,
and destroyed many of the archives. The citizens
required leave from the Comte de Rocliambeau
to arm, which herefufed, as well as to call on the
military. The Prince de Heilb Darnftadt, Colo
nel of a regiment in garrison, took this on hini
felf, and with 4000 armed citizens, difperfcd the
mob, several of whom were hanged. In their
violence, they had got at the vast tuns of Rhenish
Wine, and ltock which are preserved there eti de
pot, and waded up to their knees in it.
We had great illuminations at the Palais Royal,
last night, on account of M. Neckar's arrival ;
but they will be general when he visits the Hotel
de Ville, to which he will be invited. The Na
tional Club at the Palais Royal had eleven of the
arcades moll beautifully illuminated with trans
parencies of the King and M Neckar.
The people in Franche Comte have destroyed
all the title deeds and archives of the Nobles.
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER 23.
The Advices by the French Packet ftate —That
the Minillry which came in, on the removal of
M. Neckar, continued in office but four days—
when the King, finding that the aristocratic
party had niifled him, threw himfelf into the
arms of the people.—Restored M. Neckar, and
his compatriots.— Speedy justice was executed
upon fotne of the principals of the late Miniftry—>
several of whom were beheaded —One of them
who anticipated the public vengeance had the
ceremony of his funeral performed, but the ar
tifice being detected, the farce Was turned into
a tragedy, by the loss of his head.—Sixteen com
mittees were appointed in the city of Paris for va
rious purposes, whose vigilance and activity had
restored it to peace and security : One of tliefe
committees was to furniffi supplies of grain, &c.
When the Kjng's army approached the cit},
the inhabitants immediately armed themfeWes,
by seizing the hospital of the invalids ; and to
fortify the avenues to the city, they tore up the
pavements —with thefe,carriages, &c. they form
ed a temporary fortification,in which the heavy
artillery was placed. Mean time the people at
tacked the Baftile, the Governor of which hav
ing admitted a number of them, drew up the
bridge, and thenfacrificed the whole.—The citi
zens finding that they had been deceived, scaled
the walls of this castle—took the Governor and
Lieut. Governor out, and beheaded them both—
and then leveled the walls to the ground—but fevr
prisoners were found therein. During all these
commotions, the National Aflembly continued
fitting, and preserved the greatest moderation,
dignity and firmnefs.—The citizens were armed,
and formed into regular corps under proper of
ficers : And such arrangements made as raltored
peace and tranquility, and gave the happiest
profpeft of eftablilhing a free government.
These events will form an important epoch in
the annals of Europe, and induce a material
change in the politics of the Eastern Hemisphere.
During the late disturbances in France tis said not more than
hirty persons have loft their lives, on the part of the people.
ARRIVALS. NEW YORK.
Saturday, Sloop Gorinna, Sacket, St. Martins, 24 days.
Sunday, Sloop Brothers, Walton, Digby, 12 do.
Monday, Brig Nancy, Carberry, Kingston, 40 do.
Ship Favorite, Willfon, Hull, 56 do.
Brigß<tfy, Motley, Charleston, 18 do.
Ship Wm. Pitt, White, Kingston, 35 do.
Brig Columbia, Paddock. Port au Prince, 25 do.
Sloop N. Y. Packer, Albertfon, Philadelphia, 9do
Sloop Nancy, Price, Philadelphia, 7 do.
Packet Franklin, Vourotois, Bourdeaux. $2 do.
Ship Brittanflia. Renwick, Yarmouth. 56 do.
Sloop Polly, Painter, Bermuda. 12 do.
Tuesday, Ship Merchant - , Bunker, Havre dr Grace, do.
Ship St. Phillip, Harrifon, Bonnrwifta. do.
Sloop Lady-Hammond, — Gr?«nada, do.
Brig Charlotte, Woodruff, Aux Caves, ——do.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED,
(in continuation.)
IN free Hates, the people being fenfibleof
" their pait condition in former times under the
" power of great ones, and comparing it with the
" polhbilities and enjoyments of the present, be
" come immediately instructed, that their main
interest and concernment consists in liberty ;
" and are taught by common sense, that the only
" way to secure it from the reach of great ones,
" is to place it in the people's hands, adorned
" with all the prerogatives and rights of fupre
" macy." It is very true that the main interest
and concernment of the people is liberty. If
their liberties are well secured they may be happy
it they will; and they generally, perhaps always,
are so. 1 lie way to secure liberty is to place it
in the people's hands, that is, to give them a pow
er at all times to defend it in the legislature and
in the courts of justice : But to give the people,
uncontrolled, all the prerogatives and rights of
fupreinacy, meaning the whole executive and ju
dicial power, or even the whole undivided legis
lative, is not the way to preserve liberty. In
such a government it is often as great a crime to
oppole or decry a popular demagogue, or any
of his principal friends, as in a simple monarchy
to oppose a king, or in a simple aristocracy the
senators : The people will not bear a contemp
tuous look or difrefpectful word ; nay, if the
stile of your homage, flattery, and adoration, is
not as hyperbolical as the pppular enthusiasm dic
tates, it isconftrued into difaffe<stion ; the popu
lar cry of envy, jealousy, suspicious temper,
vanity, arrogance, pride, ambition, impatience,
ofafuperior, is set up against a man, and the
rage and fury of an ungovernable rabble, ftimu
lated underhand by the demagogic despots,
breaks out into every kind of infiilt, obloquy,
and outrage, often ending in murders and mas
sacres, like those of the De Witts, more horri
ble than any that the annals of despotism can pro
duce.
It is indeed true, that " the interest of free
" dom is a virgin that every one seeks to deflower ;
" and like a virgin it inuft be kept, or else (so
" great is the lult of mankind after dominion)
" there follows a rape upon the firft opportuni
" ty." From this it follows, that liberty in the
legislature is " more secure in the people's hands,
" than in any other, because they are most con
" cerned in it:"—provided you {keep the ex
ecutive power out of their hands entirely, and
give the property and liberty of the rich a secu
rity in a senate, against the encroachments of
the poor in a popular afleinbly. Without this
the rich will never enjoy any liberty, property,
reputation, or life, in security. The rich have
asxlear a right to their liberty and property as
the poor : It is eflential to liberty that the rights
of the rich be secured ; if they are not, they will
soon be robbed and become poor, and in their
turn rob their robbers, and thus neither the li
berty or property of any will be regarded.
" The careful attention to liberty makes the
" people both jealous and zealous, keeping a
" coliftant guard against the attempts and en
" croachments of powerful or crafty undermin
" ers." But this is true only while they are
made a diftincft body from the executive power,
and the most conlpicuous citizens mingle altoge
ther, and a scramble instantly commences for the
loaves and filhes, abolition of debts, Glutting up
courts of justice, divisions of property, &c. Is
it not an insult to common sense, for a people
with the fame breath to cry liberty an abolition of
debts and divifon of goods ? If debts are once abo
lished, and goods are divided, there will be the
fame reason for af-refli abolition anddivifion eve
ry month and every day, and thus the idle, vici
ous and abandoned, will live in constant riot 011
the spoils of the industrious, virtuous, and de
serving. " Powerful and crafty uiulerminers
" have no where such rare sport" as in a simple
democracy, or single popular aftembly. No
where, not in the complete!!: defpotifins, does
human nature fliow itfelffo completely depraved,
so nearly approaching to an equal mixture of bru
tality and devil ifin, as in the last stages of such a
democracy, and in the beginning of defyotifin
that always succeeds it
" A people having once tasted the sweets of
" freedom, are so afifedted with it, that if they
" discover or fufpetft tlieleaftdefign to encroach
" upon it, they count it a crime never to be for
" given," Strange perversion of truth and fadt!
This is so far from the truth, that our author him
felf is not able to produce a single instance of it
as a proof or illuftrafion. Instead of adducing an
example of it from simple democracy, he is oblig
ed to have recourse to an example that operates
strongly against him, because taken from an ari
stocracy. In the Roman State, one gave up his
children, another his brother, to death, to re
venge anattempt against common liberty. Was
Brutus a man of the'people ? was Brutus for a
government of the people in their sovereign as
semblies? Was not Brutus a Patrician ? Did lie
not think patricians n different order of beings
from plebeians ? Bid he not eretft a simple ari
llocracy ? Did lie not facrifice his fgns to pie
ferve that ariltocracy ? Is it not equally probable
that he would have lacrificed them to preserve
his aristocracy from any attempt to set up such a
government as our author contends for, or even
againlt any attempt to have given the plebeians
a share in the government ; nay, againlt any at
tempt to erec't the office of tribunes at that time ?
—" Divers facrificed their lives to preserve it."
Topreferve what? The Handing government of
grandees, againlt which our author's whole book
is written. " Some lacrificed their belt friends
" to vindicate it, upon bare suspicion, asjn the
" cafe of Melius and Manlius." To vindicate
what? Liberty? popular liberty ? plebeian li
berty ? Precisely the contrary. These charac
ters were murdered for daring to be friends to
popular liberty ; for daring to think of limiting
the power of the grandees, by introducing a
lliare of popular authority, and a mixed conltim
tion ; and the people thenifelves were so far
from the zeal, jealouly, and love ofliberty, that
our author afciibes to them, that they fuffered
their own authority to be pi oftituted before their
eyes, to the deftrudion of the only friends they
had, and to the eftabliiliment of their enemies,
and a form of government by grandees, under
which they had 110 liberty, and iu which they
had 110 lliare.—Our author cites examples of re
venge in Greece. 1656 was a late age in the his
tory of philosophy, as well as morality and re
ligion, for a writer to preach up revenge as a du
ty and a virtue: Reaion and philanthropy, as
well as religion, pronounce it a weakness and a
vice in all pofiible cales. Examples enough of it,
however, may be found in all revolutions : But
monarchies and ariltocracies have pratftifed it,
and therefore the \irtue of revenge is not pecu
liar to our author's plan. In Corcyra itfelf the
people were mallacred by the grandees as often
as they mallacred the grandees: and ofall kind of
spirits that we read of, out of hell, this is the
last that an enlightened friend of liberty would
pliilofophically inculcate. Let legal liberty vin
dicate itfelf by legal punifliments and moral mea
sures; but mobs and mallacres are the disgrace
of her sacred cause ttill more than that of huma
nity.
ODE TO POPULARITY.
BY R. CUMBERLAND, Esquirf.
O POPULARITY, thou giddy thing !
What grace or profit doll thou bring ?
Thou -art not honest, thou art not fame ;
I cannot call thee by a worthy name
To fay I hate thee were not true ;
Contempt is properly thy due ;
I cannot love thee and despise thee too.
Thou art no patriot, but the veriest cheat
That ever trafficked in deceit;
A slate empiric, bellowing loud
Freedom and phrenzy to the mobbing crowd ;
And what car'ft thou, if thou can'ft raise
Illuminations and huzzas
Tho' half the city funk, in one bright blaze!
A patriot! no ; for thou dost hold in hate
The very peace and welfare of the state;
When anarchy alTaultS the Sovereign's throne,
Tl»en is thy day, the night thy own ;
Then is thy triumph, when the foe
Levels some dark insidious blow,
Or strong rebellion lays thy country low.
Thou canst affe& humility, to hide
Some deep device of monftroTis pride ;
Conscience and charity pretend,
For comparing some private end ;
And in a canting conventicle note
Long scripture paflages canst quote
When persecution rankles in thy throa\
Thou haft no sense of nature at thy heart,
No ear for Icience, and no eye for art,
Yet confidently dost decide at once
This man a wit, and that a dunce;
And (strange to tell) how'eruniuft,
We take thy -dictates upon trust,
For if the world will be deceiv'd, it mull.
In truth and justice thou haft uo delight,
Virtue thou dost not know by light ;
But, as the chymift by fiis skill.
From dross and dregs a spirit can diftill,
So from the prisons, or the stews,
Bullies, blafphcmcrs, chcats, or jews
Shall tu»rn to heroes, if they serve thy views.
Thou dost but make a ladder of the mob,
Whereby to climb into some courtly job ;
There fafe reposing, warm and snug,
Thou anfwer'ft with a patient ftirug
Miscreants, begone ; who cares for you,
Ye base born brawling, clamorous crew ?
You've fcrv'd my turn, and, vagabonds, adieu.
IVEBSTER's CRITICISMS UPON GIBBON's
HISTORY,
(OOXCLUDED FROM PAGE 152.)
IN description, our author often indulges a
figurative poetical manner, highly improper.
" The figure of the imperial city (Conftanti.
noplc) may be represented under that of an un
equal triangle. The obtuse point, which ad
vances towards the east, and the fliores of Asia,
meets and repels the waves of the Thracian Bof
phorus." Here the author soars on poetic wings
and we behold the obtuse point of a triangle, march
ing ealhvard attacking and repulftng its foes, the
waves of the Bofpliorus ; in the next line, the
author finks from the heights of Parnaflus,' and
creeps on the plain of pfnfle narative—" The
northern fide of the city ig bounded by the har
bor."
On theft banks, tradition long prefer*, i
the memory of the fylvaa reign of Anivcus J,
defied the fori of Leda to the combat or' the f r
tus. ihe author takes it for granted that hit
reader is acquainted with all the ancient i'abl'
of Greece and Rome. Such situ fans to 1'
or fables make a wretched figure in J, bey
Ihe author, after the manner of the Jets'
admits epilodes into liis descriptions WJ,
variety and embellishment. He begins adei'Hn
non of Coaiftantioiople ; to do jultice to the citv
hemuft describe its situation ; he therefore ri',«
an account of the Tin acian Bofphorus the p
pontus and Hellespont, interfperted with and"
ent lables, and adorned with Poetical v"
When he arrives at the mouth of the Hellefpo'/
his fancy leads him to the feat of ancient Trov'
and he cannot pass it without tellino us
Homer, where the Grecian armies were eiieam,,
ed; where the flanks of the army were guarded
by Agamemnon's bravest chiefs; where Achilles
and his myrmidons occupied a promontory
where Ajax pitched his tent; and where
tomb was erected after his death. After indci
ging his fancy on this memorable field of heroic
actions, he is qualified to describe Conftantiuo.
pie.
But it is needless to multiply examples; f or
similar faults occur in almost every pac;e. Moll
men, who have read this hiltory, perceivea dif
ficulty in undei Handing it ; yet few have at
tempted to find the reason ; and hardly a nun
has dared to censure theftileand manner.
To what cause then shall we ascribe the al
nioft unanimous content of the English and Ame.
ricans, in lavishing praises upon Gibbon's ltilio
ry > In some mealure doubtlel's to the greatness
of the attempt, and the want of an English liifto
ry which iliould unfold a series of events which
connects ancient and modern times. The
man who lhould light a lamp, to illuminate the
dark period of time from the jth to the 15th ten»
tury, would deserve immortal honors. The at
tempt is great; it is noble; it is meri roriou'
Gibbon appears to have been faithful, laboric ,
and perhaps impartial. It is his stile and manner
only I am censuring > for these are exceedingly
faulty. For proof of this I appea Ito a single fact,
which I have never heard contradicted; thatamatt
who would comprehend Gibbon, mult read with
painful attention, and after all receive little im
provement.
The encomiums of his countrymen proceed
from falfe caste ; a taste for fujperfluous orm
inent. Men are disposed to lefleni the troubleof
reading, <uid to (pare the labor of examiningin
to the causes and Consequences of events. They
clioofe to please their eyes and ears, rather than
feed the mind. Hence the rage for abridgementi,
and a display of rhetorical embellishments. But
a man who would know the minute springs of
action ; the remote and collateral, as well as the
direct causes and consequences of events ; and the
nice shades of character which diflinguifli emi
nent men, with a view to draw rules from living
examples ; f6ch a man luuft pass by abridge
ments as trash ; hemuft have recourse to theori
ginal'writers, or to collections of authentic papers.
Indeed a collection of all the material, official pa
pers, arranged in the order of time, however
dry and unentertainingto inoft readers, is really
the befl and the only authentic history of a coun
try. The philosopher and statesman, 'who wifli
to substitute fa>ft for opinion, will generally sus
pect human testimony ; but repose full confidence
in the evidence of papers, which have beeil the
original instruments of public tranfa&ions, ani
recorded by public authority.
Thefeftrictures are contrary to the opinions of
moll men, especially as they regard the stile ot
the author mentioned. Yet tliey are written
with full conviction of their being well founded.
They proceed from an earnest desire of arreting
the progress of falfe taste in writing, and oH'ee
ing my countrymen called back to nature and
truth.
* So Gillies, in his History of Greece, chap. 11. talks
the death of the friend of Achilles : M but leaves the readerto
difcoverthe person— not having once men'ioned the name of
troclus. I would observe further, that such appellations as the//">
oj Leda are borrowed irora the Greek; but wholly improper
in our lauguage. The Greek? had a diftinft ending of the nan*
of the father to fignify son or descendants; as Bcradiia.
■ orm of the noun was known and had a definite meaning in Greece,
but in EnglifK the idiom is awkward and embarrafling.
ANECDOTE.
ABOUT thirty years ago great complaints
were made that the Watchmen of London anu
Westminster negleifted their duty to a great de
gree.—On this a wife Senator made a motion) 11
the House of Commons, for Jeave to bring in
Bill to compel Watchmen to sleep in the Daj,
that they might the better discharge their dun
in the Night.—The late Sir James Creed begge'
the Hon. Member would include him in the Bi •
for he was so troubled with the Gout, that
could neither lleep Night nor Day.
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maid**'
Lane, nearth e Ufwego-Markct, New-York. —[3 d°Lp r ' an '