[No. XLIII.]
T H~E TABLE T.—No. XLIII.
" The pafions and prejudices of men often ?najk
ihtntfelves under the names of virtuous qualities."
MY lail number exhibited to the view of
the reader two characters, who, with
ut any bad intentions, were instrumental in
keeping alive a spirit of jealousy and uneasiness
among the people,relative to the affairs of govern
ment 0 I ftiall now introduce some more of my
acquaintance, whose motives perhaps are not
quite so unexceptionable.
The roify Fumosus is more troublesome, if
not more dangerous, than either of the cha
racters just mentioned. His paflions are so
tumultuous that he can never examine any cir
cumstance with candor, and deliberation. He
carries every thing to extremes. Whether he is
; n or out of office, he creates many enemies
atrainft the government,by his rashness andindif
cretion. If he or some of his particular friends
should happen to have a leading influence, he
funs into a vehemence of applaufeon public men
and measures. Should the reverse be the cafe,
the whole fury of his paflions takes a different
course. He joins the discontented and seditious,
and reprobates public proceedings with acrimo
ny and revenge. Though he enters into no sys
tems to overthrow the government, and though
bis paflions will vary or subside, yet he is a
peat fomenter of jealousy and uneasiness
among the people. His petulance does not,
like that of Infelix, waste itfelf in indefinite
clamor, but he points his arrows at particular ob
jects, and hunts after them with eagerness and
sage. Different passions and feelings at times are
uppermost. By turns he lhews jealousy, envy,
rei'entment, antipathy, and attachment ; and
which ever of them prevails,it does not flop short
of the highefl degree of excess. When disap
pointed, he raves at the administration ; when
fuccefsful, he idolizes it, and threatens perdition
to its enemies. Upon the w hole, Fumosus,
though he is not a man of knavery and intrigue,
is still a dangerous character. The impetuosity
of his conduct is calculated to excite undue pre
judices against the government, and frighten ma
ny well-meaning people with falfe alarms.
My acquaintance Profundus puzzles many
people exceedingly. 'No person can penetrate
more readily into the view of another.—He is
cool, designing and mysterious. His favorite
theories must not be called in question ; and he
approves or disapproves of any public tranfavtion,
according as it will promote or fruftrate his pe
culiar fy'ftem of politics. Such characters as
Phofundus are not common. It requires re
feirches so elaborate, and an attention to objects
so minute and persevering to form abflract sys
tems, that afinall proportion of mankind will e
wrnake the attempt. Few men have patience
aid application,and fewer still have the abilities
andaddrefsto proceed systematically Suchfpe
culative men often lead others astray ; because
their plans, when compared with practice and
experiment, are fallacious. I entertain a good
opinion of the talents of Pro fun dus, and I have
noreafonto scruple his integrity. But he is so
dark and incomprehensible, that when he hap
pens to take a wrong way of thinking, he draws
others into the fame error, by starting difficul
ties, with which common minds are perplexed
and alarmed. I would recommend it to the ho
"tfl: part of my readers, who love tranquility,
to have little to do with men, whom they cannot
understand. Plain,practical politicians, who are
more noted for good actions than for loud or fair
»ords, are the lafeft guide and counsel.
The vanity and ostentation of Opinus is ve
-7 disgusting. His dislike to public measures pro
ceeds lrom an affected Angularity of opinion. It
ishishigheft aim to recommend himfelf to the
world as a person of more than ordinary discern-
n 'ent. This easily accounts for the spirit of op
position which is so predominating a part of his
character. If he should acquiesce in any mea
'ue,which he did not originally propofe,it would
prevent the pride and triumph of oppofmg the
current opinion of mankind, and making his own
•J-gacity more conspicuous. The only conclusion
that can be drawn from his disapprobation of
'"yroeafure, is, that he did not introduce it
it it is no argument that the thing is wrong.
have I delineated foine of the motives
J. Salifications of a few individuals, for whose
I have a great value. Their conver
sion, however, sometimes makes unfavorable
'"'P'ellions ; and I find that some of their aflo
j la!es ca tch their foibles. The peevishness of
, I^ tL,x 'ours the temper of some people agninft
npV' CVe - rnnient: . T' le incapacity of Bene volus,
Kiin" un 4 ua lifi c d to give Inch advice, as the
11 -"els of his disposition tempts his acquaint-
WEDNESDAY, September 9, 1789.
ance to aflc of him. The turbulence of Fumo •
sus, frightens his companions into a dread oi
imaginary evils. The mystery of Profundus
entangles many an honelVman t in doubts The va
nity andpompof Opinus allures theHi allow and
fickle-minded into error and instability.
It would be well for people to obtain a fatis
factory iolution to this question ; whether there
are not more causes that induce public men to
seek the public prosperity, than probably influ
ence either of the chara<slers marked out in this
speculation.
NEW-YORK, September 9, 1789.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES,
MONDAY, AUGUST 31.
In committee of the whole oil the Judicial Bill.
THIRD SECTION UNDER CONSIDERATION.
MR. LivermorE : I think this law will en
tirely change the form of government of
the United States.
Several obfcrvations have heen made on the
clause : It is said to be the hinge on which the
whole turns : Some of the objections which I have
thrown out, have been attempted to be answered
—among others the great ex pence—by expence I
do not mean the salaries of Judges—this will how
ever be greater than the whole expence of the
Judiciary throughout the United States ; but I
refer to thr general expenccs, which mull be
borne by the people at large, for jails, court
houses, &c.—the expences of jurors and witnesses,
and other incidental charges,will be another great
burthen : This is atprefent borne without repin
ing, as the people receive compensation in person
al security and public justice ; but if all tliefe are
to be doubled throughout, it will be justly consi
dered as intolerable. Another burthen is the ra
pidity of thecourfe of prolecution in tliefe courts,
by which debtors will be obliged very suddenly
to pay their debts at a great disadvantage : Some
thing like this, occasioned the insurrection in the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts : In other States
similar modes of rapidity in the collection of
debts have produced conventions : This has been
the cafe to the Northward, and as I have been in
formed, has also to the Southward.
This new fangled system will eventually swal
low up the State Courts, as those who are in fa
vor of this rapid mode of getting debts will have
recourse to them. He then adverted to the claffi
ingcircumftances which must arifein the admini
stration of justice, by these independent courts
having fitnilar powers. . Gentlemen, said he, may
be facetious refpecfiing dividing the liorfe—but
these are serious difficulties—the inltances men
tioned by the gentleman from South Carolina, do
not apply—the officer here is the fame—the fame
Sheriff has the precepts committed to him—and
the execution does not claffi—the fame goal ans
wers for both, &c.
I do not think that the difficulties have been
answered by any of the examples brought for the
purpose :
As to the instance of the trial for piracy in the
State of South Carolina, that was a particular cafc,
which could not otherwise be provided for ; but
these so rarely happen, that no precedent can be
drawn from them, to render it neceflary to estab
lish these perpetual courts.
He then refered to the observation which had
been made refpedting those who are opposed to
theclaufe,offeringafubftitute,andfaid,he thought
upon the whole that the motion made by an Hon.
Gentleman from South-Carolina, (Mr. Burke,)
that there ffiould be no diftridt courts, is better
than any substitute.
It may be proper here to refer to the Constitu
tion : He then read the clause upon this fubjedt—
The Supreme Federal Court is to have original
jurifdidtion only in certain fpecified cases—in all
other,it is to have only appellate jurifdidtion : It
is argued from this, that there are to be Inferior
Federal Courts, from which these appeals are to
be made : If the fconftitution had taken from the
State Courts all cognizance of federal causes,
something might be said ; but this is not the cafe.
The State Courts are allowed jurifdidtion in these
cases.
It has been objedted that bonds taken by the
Judges of the Supreme Court, cannot be sued in
the State Courts : I do not fee why this cannot be
done : Similar procelles have been usual among
us in times past, and there has been no difficulty.
Admiralty Courts ffiould have cognizance of all
maritime matters, and cases of seizures ffiould al
so be committed to their decision. I hope there
fore that the clause will be disagreed to, orftruck
out, and that the bill may be rejedted, that a ffiort
concise system may be adopted.
r Published on h
Mr. Vining : I conceive that the inftitutiou
of general and independent tribunals, are eilential
to the fair and impartial administration of the
laws of the United States—That the power of
making laws, of executing laws, and a judicial
administration of such laws, is in its nature, inse
parable andindivifible,if not " JuJlice might be said
to b: lame as visll as blind among us." The only
plausible argument which has been urged againlt
this clause, is the expence : It is true, that ex
pence mull in some degree be neceflarily incurred,
but it will chiefly consist and end with the organ
ization of your courts, and the erecftion of such
buildings as may be eflential—filch as Court-
Houses, Jails, and Offices, as the gentleman has
mentioned—and what, at all events, do such ex
pences amount to—they are the price which is
paid for the fair and equal administration of
your laws : From your amazingly encreafing sys
tem of government, causes must neceflarily multi
ply in a proportionately extensive ratio : These
causes must be tried some where, and whether it
is in a State Court, or a Federal Judicature, can,
in the article of expence, make but little differ
ence to the parties : It is only (for the fake of
more impartial justice) transfering the bufinel';s
from one tribunal to another.
The gentleman has told us, that the people do
not like courts—that they have been opposed and
prevented by violence—nay, by an
in Maflachufetts : Surely'this operates as a pow
erful reason to prove that there should be a gener
al, independent, and energetic judicature—other
wise, if either the State Judges should be so incli
ned, or a few lons of facftion choose to aflcmble,
they could ever fruftrate the objects of Juftice —
and besides, from the different periods fixed by
the Constitution of the United States, and the
different Constitutions of the several States, with
refpeclto the continuance of the Judges in office,
it is equally impolfible and inconliftent, to make
a general uniform establishment, so as to accom
modate them to your government.
I wi(h to fee Justice so equally distributed as
that every citizen of the United States should be
fairly dealt by, and so impartially administered,
that every fubjetft or citizen of tlie World, whe
ther foreigner or alien, friend or foe, ftiotild be
alike fatisfied: By this means you would expand
the doors of justice, encourage emigration from
all countries into your own, and in Ihort, would
make the United States of America, not only an
Asylum of Liberty, but a Sanctuary of Justice :
The faith of treaties would be preserved in-vio
lately—your extensive funding system would have
its intended operation—and your revenue, your
navigation, and your impost laws would be exe
cuted foas to receive their many advantages—and
in effetft establish the public and private credit of
the Union.
Mr. Stone : I have given the arguments all
the attention which their weight demands, consi
dering the refpediability of the characters which
have spoken upon the fubjeifl.
It has been said that the clause in the Constitu
tion is imperative—if this is the cafe, let us fee
where it will carry us : It is conceded on all hands
that the establishment of these Courts is immuta
ble ; but the Constitution fays, that Congress shall
constitute such inferior Courts from time to time.
The Constitution gives you a right to extend the
judiciary power to all tliofe cases fpecified ; bur
it does not fay that these powers shall be exercised
over all these cases.
He then extended this idea to theLegiflative Pow
er,which it cannot be pretended(faid he)isincom
plete, because it is not extended to all possible
cases : Do yoti divest yourfelf of the power by noC
exercising it ? Certainly not. This idea involves
the principle mentioned by the gentleman from
New-York, (Mr. Benfon,) that the establishment
of these inferior tribunals or diftridt courts, will
draw the whole judiciary power along with them ;
fothat the clause which rellricfts their cognizance
to a certain sum, is a nullity.
State Judges may be considered in two refpedls,
as men, and as Judges : As men, they are to sub
mit to the modification of the Constitution, as it
respects them as citizens : As Judges, they are to
consider their relation as such to the Constitution,
and are to administer justice agreeable to that
Constitution, or they may resign. I can hardly
bring myfelf to consider the fubjedt in a reverse
point of view : If it is admitted that the Judges
of the several States cannot take cognizance of a
law of the United States, because they are laws
de novo, you annihilate their judicial capacity at
a blow.
It appears tome that there is nothing that the
State Courts are not competent to, but certain ca
ses which are specially designated.
He then went on to fhewthat there was no spe
cies of treason which could be committed against
ir.e/Jay ami Saturdthe United States, which is not committed against
the individual States, and added, bonds given to
the Judges of the Supreme Court, and debts due
to foreigners, I believe, may be sued for in any
of the State Courts. I think the inconveniencies
which will attend these courts Irave been ex
plained.
He then cited some instances to shew that these
difficulties could not be argued from past expe
rience—there are no instances in point.
In cafe of a man's being committed to a State
goal, the State would not grant a writ of habeas
corpus to convey the man to the goal of the Uni
ted States—and this would apply also to property.
He then traced the eff'eds of this clashing of the
judicial powers to a rencontre between the two
potfe commitatx, till murder was committed on
both fides : In which cafe, said he, you mult liane
on both fides.
He then pointed out the advantages that fo
reigners would have over the citizens : A citizen
can now get his money in three years, with an
interest of 5P 1 "- cent, but in these courts, foreign
ers can get their debts in one. year, with an in
terest of 7 or 8 pr. cent.
From the foregoing I conceive, that this system
cannot be agreeable to the people : This must
suppose a revolution in the principles of their
representative aflemblies.
I do not think this the proper time to establish
these courts : It is a measure 011 which the af
fection and attachment of the people to the Con
ftitution will be diked : I think it bell to defer
the bufinel's till the neceflity for these courts shall
become apparent : I could therefore wish that the
power should be reserved for the occasion, and
that nothing fhtfuld be done the present session
but what is absolutely necellary.
I am for this government's moving as silent as
death that the people fliould not perceive the
least alteration in their situation * The exercise
of this power will be the most odious that can be
exercifed—for as a gentleman has said, of all the
wheels in the machine of government, the Judi
cial is the moftdifagreeable.
Mr. Gerry was opposed to the motion for
ftnking out the clause, and entered into a consi
deration of the confirmations of the several State
Judiciaries, by which, he said, that it is expressly
against the Constitution to invest the Judges of
the State Courts with authority to take cognizance
of federal acftions—That the Legislature of the
Union being bound by oath to support and ad
lninifter the Constitution—they are consequently
bound to establish these courts to carry their laws
into operation : As to the difficulties which tren
tleinen had contended will arise from the cfafli
ing of the two judicatories, these difficulties may
be obviated, and a little experience will lead to
the most ample provision to that point.
Mr. Sumpter said, he did not dispute the right
of Congress to exercise this authority ; but he
doubted the expediency at the present time.
Mr. Burke rose to enquire of the gentleman
who made the motion, whether he meant by it
to knock up the bill altogether, or to offer a fub
ftitute—for if he meant to knock the bill entire
ly away, he would most heartily join hiin—as I
conceive, said he, that the bill is founded in de
ception : It is calculated to mislead the people,
for under a shew of justice, it will deprive them
of their rights and privileges—l am therefore for
knocking the whole of it away entirely.
Mr. Livermore said that was his intention.
His motion was however, as before stated, ne
gatived by a large majority.
Tu'ESDAY, SEPT. I.
Subflana »/ Mr. Laurance's SPEECH on the
JERSEY ELECTION.
I inuft confefs the fubjecft is of a nature not al
together agreeable, because ifmembers for whom
we have a personal eftcem, should be excluded
from a feat, the event would be attended with
feelings of regret 011 our part. But I think it
neceflary that, we should express freely our real
sentiments. The Constitution has givei/this body
a right to judge of the elections, qualifications,
and returns of its members, though the mode of
their election in the firft instance lias been refer
ed to the laws of the several States. It is the bu
siness of this house, therefore, to determine
whether the election of the fitting Members has
been conformable to the law which was enacled
for that purpose. I presume this will be the
question. If it has been agreeable to the law, it
will be the duty of this house to make the decla
ration. If it has not, the house must declare the
election invalid.
she law of New Jersey declares that the elec
tion of the members shall be in the fame manner,
and under the fame regulations as the election of
representatives for the Legislature of the State.
It is neceflarv therefore to enquire what was that
mode from which we are to conclude refpec r ting
this election. The law relative to the election
of representatives in the State Aftembly fixes no
time of limitation for giving in the votes and de
claring the election ; but the practice under that
law has ever been to declare the returns of the
eleftecl, previous to the meeting of the Legisla
ture. The late law had evident refpecfl to the
time at which Congress were to meet. By reason ■
able conftrucftion, therefore, we mull conclude,
that the intention of the law was, that the elec
tion should be declared before the day appointed
for the aflembling of the Congress. This is plain
when we consider the uniform practice of thei>tate.
It may be asked further, what was the sense ot
the people of New-Jersey on the fubjedt. It ap
peal's that a majority of the counties in Jersey did
actually close their polls, and make the returns
previous to the 4th of March. If we are to rea
son therefore from the conduct of a majority of
the State, we may conclude that their opinion
was agreeable to this construction. It appears
also the governor gave this construction. This
appears from his letter to the members of the
council, requesting thdir attendance on the third
of March, as he expetSted on that day the whole
election-returns. He knew what reason he had
to expert it. If he had not supposed it material,
he was not obliged to summon theni on that day.
It is clear tome from these circumstances that the
election ought to have been declared 011 the third
of March, and that the authority of the Gover
nor expired with that day. If we admit a con
trary supposition, thathehada continuing autho
rity, it would lead to abuses. If he might extend
it a day, he might protract it a month, or to an
unlimited time. It might defeat the election, or
it might put it in the power of the Governor to
determine who should be the fitting members :—
In short it would put the law in the power of 1 the
Governor ; but it never can be rationally contend
ed that the law Ihould have an operation which
may defeat the delign of it, or be committed to
adifcretion, which may produce the fame efiedt.
But admiting that the Governor's authority was
not expended, and that he had a right to delay,
it becomes a question, to what time he Ihould ex
tend this delay. It appears from theclaufeinthe
law which confers the power on the Governor,
that he is obliged to determine from the greatej.
number of votes oj the whole State, The inference
from this w ill be, that the Governor and Council
were to wait till they had received all the votes
from all the counties. But it may be said that
this would put it in the power of a single county
to defeat the law. Admitted—Whole fault is it >
If the State would pass a law putting it in the pow
er of a county to defeat the law, the State must
fufFer the consequences. The time fixed by the
Governor for the second meeting of the council
was arbitrary.
From tliefe considerations, I think it must re
sult, that the election of the present members
from New-Jersey was not conformable to the law,
and therefore not valid. [daily adv.]
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3.
Debate on the fubjell of fixing the PERMANENT
SEAT of GOVERNMENT.
Mr. Lee rose and observed, that the House are
called 011 to deliberate 011 a great national ques
tion ; and I hope, said he, they will difculs and
decide 011 it with that difpaflionate deliberation,
which its magnitude requires. He then proposed
the following resolution : " Whereas the peo
ple of the United States have aflented to, and rati
fied a Constitution for their government, to pro
vide for their defence against foreign danger, to
secure their perpetual union, and doineftic tian,
quility, and to promoLe their common interests ;
and all these great objects will be belt effected by
eftablifhnig the permanent feat of government
111 a ltation as nearly central as a convenient wa
ter communication with the Atlantic Ocean, and
an easy access to the Western Territory will per
mit ; and as it will be fatisfactory to the people
ofthe United States, and give them a firm confi
dence,lll the justice and wisdom of their govern
ment, to be aflured that such a station is already
in the contemplation of Congress, and that proper
meafureswill be taken to afcertainit,and to provide
neceflary accommodations, as soon as the in
difpenfible arrangements for carrying into effect
the Constitution can be made, and the circum
stances of the United States will permit ; " Re
solve 1, that a place as nearly central, as a conve
nient water communication with the Atlantic
Ocean, and an easy access to the Western Terri
tory will permit, ought to be selected and esta
blished as the permanent feat of the government
of the United States."
I wish the principles of the government to be
recognized, that the people of the United States
may be able to judge whether, in the measures
about to be adopted, they are carried into exe
cution by this House. If these great principles
are not preserved, it will be an unhappy fulfil
ment olthofe predictions, which have been made
by the opponents of the Constitution, that the
generalintereft of America would not be consult
ed thatpartiaimeafureswould be purfued,andthat
mfteadol being influenced byla general policy di
rected to the good of the whole, one part ofthe
Union would be deprefled and trampled on to
benefit and exalt the other. Instead of accom
pl.fhing and realising those bright profpecfts
which shone upon us in the dawn of our go vein
wr<l'!lT fl l W u lch our P atriocs fought ami bled,
we shall find the whole to be a visionary fancy.
mytelf, that before the House decides
on the question before them tW„ .
will be recognized, if it is meant that
be regarded. tlle yiiiobl]
Mr Hartley fuported the motion of
Goodhue, and pointed out Wright's f P ,-, lVlr -
Sufquehanna, as an eligible place
government.—This I consider i : iid h of
middle ground between the De'lawa, aS / he
might be supposed a northern objedi ! ' K '' l
towmac on the south.-He went laA, - Pa
djfplay of the natural and and artificial^a/™ 0 a
ges which this place prelented ; i ts
easy communication with the Weile>-„ r"' " 5
and the Atlantic, its extreme fertility , OUIUI 7
ty of the climate, and its abundantpopE'"
Mr. Sedgwick: I hope, Sir, than lit • "
of Mr. Lee will 110t obtain. 'The" ,!" 0 " 0 "
who moved the other day to have this &
brought on tins felhon, can not fail to recoiled
that tliey were called on and intreated tn I r
this bufinels. They were told that £ va
the time, consistently with the real g 00( l 0 f °
country, to determine the permanent rcfidencl
of Congress. They were told that the £ove rn
ment was not yet in operation-fhat the union
was not yet complete— yet that gentleman par
t.cularly and the majority ot the House f u L.
r • . fuf P endl »g it would occafron so muchTf
fatisfacftionand agitation, that the peaceandhan"
pinefs ot the country required a speedy deaf.™'
As my own and other gentlemen's renionftranc-i
provedl ineffectual, and it was resolved to brin!
the bufinels oil immediately, I am now ready to
meet the gentlemen, prepared to decide unoi.
the important fubjeft.- 1 shall oppose the mod
on ot Mr. Lee, because it involves unnecefftry
Mr. Tucker reprobated the motion of Mr
Lee. He wished to know what gentlemen were
going about.—lt seemed to him that the propofi.
tion was a preamble : Was it customary to agree
to a preamble before thefubftance of arefolution
was determined on > No—The regular way was
tirlt to agree to the substance then to the preamble.
Mr. Lee allured Mr. Tucker that fair dealing
was his objetfl. He wiflied to bring forward thole
considerations which ought to guide their judg
ment. A question is to be decided which involves
present and future interells, and extends to re
mote generations. The question is to be fettled,
which mult determine whether the government
is to exist forages, or be dispersed anion* the
contending winds.—Will gentlemen fay,"that
these principles ought not to be recognized?
Will gentlemen fay that the centre of go
vernment should not be the centre of the Union
Shall it not be in a situation which will admit of
an ealy communicacion to the ocean ? Will they
fay that ourweftern brethren are to be disregard
ed ? These are the momentous conliderations
which should lead the House to a conclusion. If
they arc disregarded it will be an alarming cir
cumstance to the people of the southern States.
I hey have felt these alarms already. It was
with difficulty on another occasion that their up*
prehensions onthis score were silenced, and their
difficulties surmounted. If this queflic nis deci
ded without regarding these interells, it will be
said that a Congress is found, who are not dispo
sed to recognize the general principles of the go
vernment. I have come forward, he said, with
such explicit propositions as the interest of ray
country dictates. Some principles ought to be
previously established as a guide, as a polar liar to
direift the House to just conclusions.
Mr. Madison asked if the motion of his col
league could be fuppofedout of order. Hefub
mited that to the chair; does it contain any
thing, said he, which is not true ? I appeal to the
candid judgment of the committee. Are the
truths contained in the proposition inapplicable
to the fubjeel ? I appeal to the justice and policy
of the people of the United States. The pa
fition is strictly in order. Is it improper or inap
plicable to declare the principles which ought to
govern on this question, and which are properly
prefixed to the motion that lies 011 the table ?
Mr. Ames said—l am at a loss to conceive why
the gentlemen from Virginia are so agitated and
anxious to press the fubjetft of these refolutious.
The gentleman has asked, Is there any thing
contained in the proposition which is not true!
Is there any thing not applicable to the fnbjeft.
And by way of conclusion, asks whether the reso
lution shall not therefore pass ? But is such a con
clusion neceflary to these premises : If they are
true, why be so solicitous ? Does truth acquire
any new authority by being frequently voted'
If they are truths, will not thole truths guide
us ? But 1 have, he said, another difficulty- »
the House should vote these propositions, the
gentleman may bring forward other abstract
queflions without limitation, and supported by
the fame arguments ; and may then ask, arethe's
things true ? Are not these things applic a^' e .
And in this way the House will have upon their
journals all the arguments which can arifeouto
this multifarious fubjetft.—But is there any >' e
ceffity for it ? Will it not embarrass thecoma" 1 '
tee ! It is not our business, he said, to fyl'og lze
upon abllracT: principles, like school logic| aI,s >
but to fettle facfts. I infill that if the princip' f>are uocontrovertably true, tliere was no life in
inferring them.
The quelhon was then taken on Mr. Lee's
motion, and negatived.—34 againlt 18.
The next queition was on tlie original motion
of Mr. Scott.
Mr. Tucker was oppoled to fettling any prin
ciples whatever. He declared that the majority
for fixing on any set of principles could not gov
ern his mind with regard to the fad:. If 011 the
whole, he did not think that place the best which
the principles adopted by the commitee Ihould
seem to lead to, he certainly could not vole for it.
Mr. Madison moved that the word " wealth"
be (truck out. He observed that population and
extent of territory are the only main principles
which ought to govern. Government is intended
forthe equalaccominodationof all ranksof citizens.
They ought all to be so favored, that they may
easily transmit their grievances, and receive tliofe
bleflings the government is intended to dispense.
The rich are certainly not less able than the poor
torefort to the government,or to eflablilhtlie ne
ceflary means of securing its advantages. If
there are any superior advantages to be enjoyed
from the presence of the government, I rather
suppose that it ought to move towards those who
molt want its protection.
The queition on this motion was taken and
negatived.—Ayes 22—Noes 27.
The question was then taken on the original
resolution of Mr- Scott, and carried.—Ayes 35
—Noes 14. (To be continued.) ( Daily Adv.)
SATURDAY, SEPT. 5.
Mr. Seney,of the committee appointed to take into consider
ation the memorial of John White, late Continental Commit
fioner of Accounts for the State of Pennsylvania, and his Afliftants
brought in a report, which was in favor of granting the prayer q
the memorial.
In Committee of the whole on the fubjett oj a permanent residence.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
The resolutions submitted by Mr. Fitzsi MONsyefterday, were
read, and taken into confederation. Several obje&ions were made
to the idea of purchafmg the foil for the federal residence, as it
would fubjett the States to a heavy expence, which might be avoi
ded. The Constitution, it was said, contemplated a ceflion of
territory by the States for the purpose. To this it was replied,
that the word ceflion refered to the jurifdißion, and not to the foil —
and examples were adduced to shew that ceflions of territory do
not imply anv thing more than a transfering of the jurifdi&ion—
as, after such ceflions, the property of individuals isnot changed.
The committee could not agree upon filling up the blank before
the word 41 years", refpetting the temporary refidence,Jive, four,
three, two, and one were negatived—lt .vas at length agreed to pass
it over, and to take it up in the house.
"pie blank before the word 44 dollars" was filled with one hun
fcdt'ioufund —time, to be repaid in 11 twenty years"—intereftat
«ot more than 5 pr. cent. pr. ann. These resolutions were then
adopted by the committee, and reported to the house.
A motion for adjournment beingnegatived, the House proceed
«d to the consideration of the report.
Mr. Lee introduced a new preamble as an introdu£li#n to this
bufinefs—whi*h after some difcuflion was withdrawn.
The (irft resolution (Mr. Scot's) *-as then agreed toby the
House.
Mr. Lee again proposed to strike out " east bank of the Suf
quehanna" and to insert north bavk oj the Patowmac : This produ
ced further debate, which lasted so long as to preclude a dccifion
this day. Adjourned.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7.
In Committee of the whole on the fubjeft of the permanent rejidence. *
Mr. Lee's motion in favor of the Patowmac was taken up, and
the ayes and noes being called for by that gentleman, the motion
was n^atived —29 to 21.
Mr. Viking moved to (hike out 4 V east bank of the Sufque
lonna'' and insert the borough vf Wilmington, in the State oj Delaware.
He enforced this motion by Hating the advantages in point of (itua
tion, healthiness of climate, provisions, and immediate accommo
dations : Thclaft of which he urged with additional energy, as it
would fupercede the neceflity of the great expence attending the
Sufquehanna. On this question Mr. Vising called for the ayes
«"d»ofj, which were noes 32, ayes 19 —so the motion was loft.
Mr. Boudinot brought forward a motion founded upon some
resolutions of the late Congress refpefting the permanent residence.
He went into a general difcuflion of the principles that ought to
influence Congress in all its decisions, more especially on a fubje€t
of this magnitude and importance. He stated a variety of objec
tions to the SufquehaDna, and moved that it be struck out, to in
sert Patowmac, Sujquehanna, or Delaware : If this is agreed to, r aid
he, I (hall move for a committee to go to these several places, that
investigation of the whole business may be had, previ
ous to a final decision, The ayes and noes being called, there ap
peared 23 ayes—2B noes—so the motion was negatived.
Mr. Boudinot then moved to insert on either Jide the banks oj
thDda ware, not more than 8 miles above or below the lower falls.
The<Z)e.tand now being called, were, noes 46, ayes 4.
ft was then moved to strike out the word " east" before bank :
This was determined in the affirmative, by a majority of one, the
*yes and noes being called.
It was then moved by Mr. Lee to infert,after the words <$ Suf
quehanna, inahe State of Pennsylvania," or Maryland. This mo
tion was negatived—ayes 26—noes 25.
Mr. Vin Ing moved that "the borough of Wilmington" be
inserted, as the temporary residence of Congress : This being fe
c°nded, the ayesand noes were called on the question, which was
loft— ayes 21 —noes 30.
Mr. Parker moved to strike out 44 New-York," and insert
Philadelphia, as the temporary residence. The ayes and noes being
tailed, the fame was loft, there being 29 in the negative, and 22 in
the affirmative.
A motion for adjournment being put and loft, the house pro
dded and completed the resolutions : The time to be allowtd
tor ere&ing the buildings, is fixed at four years.
A committee, confiitmg of Mr. Ames, Mr. Laurance, and
" r - Clymf. r, was appointed to prepare and report a bill to car
ry resolutions into effV&.
A mefTage wafc received from the Senate with the bill for alter
lngthe department of foreign affairs into the department of State,
jnd attaching thereto certain additional duties. The salary bill,
or the officers of the Executive Department, the bill for compen
jating the services of the President and Vice-President, and the
1 for compensating the Members of both Houfcs, ail with
amendments. Adjourned.
-The and noes upon the above interejlinv quefliors were
ca if j° frequently, that we have not room tor then insertion this day ;
WheyJhatf appear m c M r next.
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8.
Petitions from the Freemen of the towns of Providence, New
port, &c. upon the operation of the coll'ettion and tonnage laws
were read, and refered to a committee already appointed to take
into consideration the memorial refpe&ing North-Carolina, &c.
Mr. Boudi not presented a petition from fundrv inhabitants of
the State of New-Jersey, chiefly praftitio'ners inlaw, refpefting
the place pointed out in the judiciary bill for holding the diftrift
courts in Eafl New-Jersey, and praying that Perth Amboy maybe
the place for holding those courts.
The House then took up the amendments of the Senate to the
bill for eflablifhing the salaries 0f the officers of the Executive
Department.
The firft amendment was to add 500 dollars to the salary of the
Secretary of State—which being agretd to, his salary is 3500 dol
lars.
The second was to reduce the salary of the Auditor from 1500
dollars, to 1250 —this was disagreed to.
The third, to strike out 1600 dollars, the falaVy of the Treasur
er, and insert 2000. Disagreed to.
The fourth, to flrike out 500 dollars, from the falar) of the Go
vernor of the Western Territory.
This amendment was opposed, as involving the diminution of
a salary which was annexed to two very important and ekpenfive
offices. The amendment was disagreed to.
The fifth, to flrike out 1500 dollars, the salary of the Assistant
of the Secretary of the Treasury, and to insert 1700. Disagreed to.
The sixth was to give the principal Clerk to the Treasurer, a sa
lary of 600 dollars. Agreed to.
The seventh was to empower the heads of the departments to
appoint their refpe&ive clerks. Agreed to.
And the lafl was to raise the salaries of the inferior Clerks to
500 dollars—which was agreed to.
The amend ment of the Senate to the bill for allowing compensa
tions to The President and Vice-President, was next taken
up : The Senate proposed that the Vice-President should receive
6000 dollars, pr. arm. This amendment was disagreed to.
The amendments of the Senate to the bill for allowing compen
sations to the members of the two houses, and their refpe&ive offi
cers were next read. In the firft amrnament the Senate adheres
to its former resolution refpetting a discrimination.
It was then moved by Mr. Li v er more, that the house should
recede from their disagreement to this amendment of the Senate.
This was seconded by Mr. Blnson—who observed, that the
Legifiature is now brought into such a situation, as that if the
house should refufe to recede from their disagreement, there is the
greatest danger of a difTolution of the government : And as the
discrimination is not to take place till the end of fix years, it may
be considered as an appeal to our constituents, who will undoubt
edly determine the matter for the Legifiature inthat period.
The vote being taken on the motion to recede, it parted in the
negative. It was then voted that a conference should be requefled
with the Senate upon this business—and MeffrsSHEß m an, Tuck
er, and Benson were appointed Conferrees on the part of the
House.
The amendments to the bill providing for the fafe keeping of
the atts, records, and great f. al of the United States, &c. were
read and agreed to by the house.
Mr. Carrol presented a representation from the inhabitants
of George Town on the Patowmac, on the fubjeft of the perma
nent residence of Congress. Read and laid on the table.
Mr. Gerry moved a resolution to the following effe£t : That
monies shall not be drawn from the Treasury unless by appropria
tions, made and confirmed by Congress, subsequent to the 4th of
March last. Laid on the table.
In Committee of the whole on the bill for rflablifhing Judicial
Courts. Some progress was made in the 4th fedtion.
Adjourned.
F R EDR ICKSBURC, AUCNST 27.
On Tuesday, the 25th inft. died at her house in this town,
Mrs. Mary Washington, aged 82 years, the venerable mo
ther ot the illustrious President of the United States, after % long
and painful indisposition, which she bore with uncommon pa
tience. Though a pious tcai of duty, affe£lion and esteem, is due
to the memory of a chara£ler, yet our grief must be
greatly alleviated from the consideration that she is relieved from
the pitiable infirmities attendant on an extreme old age.—lt is
usual when virtuous and conspicuous persons quit this terrellial
abode, to publish an elaborate panegyric on their characters—fuf
ficeittofay, she conduced herfclf through this transitory life
with virtue, prudence and christianity, worthy the mother of the
greatest Hero that ever adorned the annals of niftory.
0 may kind heaven, propitious to our fate,
Extend that hero's to her lengthened date;
Through the long period healthy, a&ive, sage ;
Nor know the fad infirmities oj age.
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER 9.
It appears by the public papers from all quarters, that the
States are more and more coalescing under the new government:
Their refpeilive Legiflaturcs and Judiciaries are taking and sub
scribing the oath to support the new Conllitution : And the peo
ple are turning their eyes to its benign operations, as to their
hope and confidence.
Recent accounts state, that North-Carol in a and Rhode-
Island will very probably soon come into the federal Family :
In the mean time the Legislature of the Union, are paying all due
attention totheir rcprefentations and petitions upon those parts of
the revenue Laws which bear hard upon them, by reason of their
present alien situation.
It has been obfervedthat a vein of ill nature is predominant in
moftof the ftriflures upon the operations of the general govern
ment which hare appeared in the papers : The motives of gen
tlemen whose characters are irreproachable, have been impeached :
Opprobrious epithets have been applied : and the decisions of the
majority have been reprehended in affile more indicative of spleen,
party,envy, ahd disappointment, than of the least traces of patrio
tism : But it is a consoling refletlion, that the carpings of these
reftleis votaries of confufion, are very generally despised and re
probated.
There is much wisdom in the Fable of the old man who fat out
to cary his ass to market:—For he that.thinks he can please ever/
body, will find himfelf miserably milfaken.
Perhaps this Fable applies to no profeflion more aptly, than to
that o' Printers : But at this moment a very ufeful Jeffon may be
drawn horn it by legislators. —It is very desirable to give univer
sal fatisfaftion, but as this is impoflible, the conclusion is, to ast
agrteable to the diflates of the bell lightand information that pre
fenls. This will fatisfy the reasonable and patriotic mind: But
carpers and popularity seekers are the mod arbitrary of all man
kind, and it is in vain to expect they will ever be fatisfied.
THEATRICALS.
The principal part of the entertainment at the
Theatre, on Monday evening, was the new com
edy, entitled " The FATHER, or American
Shandyism," the production of an American,
a young gentleman of this city.—This circum
ltance occafioneda crouded houf'e ; and from the
reiterated plaudits which followed almolt every
exhibited incident, it is puefumed that the pub
lic taste has very l'eldom been gratified in a high
er degree.
The parts were vei y judicioully afligned, and
supported witli great animation and propriety.
The Prologue and Epilogue were finely
adapted, and their delivery received uncommon
applause.
A correspondent observes, that sentiment, wit
and comiqus humour are happily blended in that
most ingenious performance "The FATHER,
or American sh and yi sm nor is that due pro
portion of the pathetic which interests the fm
eft feelings of the human heart, omitted. The
happy allusions to characters and events, in
which every friend to our country feels interest
ed—and those traits of benevolence which are
brought to view in the most favourable circum
stances, conspired to engage, amuse, delight,
and inftrucft the audience through five acts of al
ternate anticipations, and agreeable surprizes.—•
This Comedy bids fair to be a favorite entertain
llient, anda valuable acquisition to the ltage.
Wife men have frequently remarked* that as vice* are more ef
fectually obviated by education than by penalties, io improper
cuitoms and manners are better corrected by the rtiild influence of
example; than by means more severe and less captivating. It is
much to be wiflttd that all whose situationS and characters naturally
tend to excite imitation, were well apprized of the importance
of their conduct in this refpeCt. There are doubtless many cus
toms as well as pleasures which, although lawful, are not advis
able; and therefore had better be declined : Among these the ex
pensive and ostentatious parade of mourning on the death of rela
tions may be numbered. In whatever causes it may have origin
ated, or by whatever policy it may in other countries have been
countenanced* we have much reason to believe that in America
it is inexpedient. It certainly produces no good to the public,
that can compensate for its inronveniences to individuals, efpe
ciallyas foreign and notdomellic manufactures are encouraged by
it. The memorable Congrefs'of 1774 thought it necessary to cor
ie£t the errors of this custom; and circumscribe it within the
bounds of decent economy and rational simplicity. Their senti
ments were then generally adopted, and until within a few years
generally prevailed : But the force of former habits, combined
with certain other causes, gradually prompted so many to relapse
into the preceding fafliion, that the one introduced by Congress*
notwithstanding all its evident advantages,has been losing ground*
and would probably in the course of a few years have been laid
aftde,had not the example of our patriotic PRESlDENTinterpofed
to revive it. We lament that the death of an affectionate and ami
able mother, prefentcd the occasion : circumstanced as he is, all
regard to expence mud have been out of queition, and filial at
tachment probably suggested and urged those conspicuous mani
feftations of grief and respeCt which a custom but too universal
seemed to require. Public confidtrations, however, appear to
have prevailed ; and it gives us pleasure to inform our fellow-citi
zens, that the Prefid£nt and his lady, together with all hisjami
ly,wear the mourning which the Congress of 1774 recommended.
The heart that mourns needs no externaljign,
To speak the agony that preys within ;
44 Smallgriefs are loud!" andajk an outwardJkotu :
Retired andfUnt is the decpeft u:oe.
" Livingunder good government, We have con
fident hopes, as a people, ofrifing, and taking an
eminent stand among the nations ; of succeeding
inthe great interests ofliberty, security in person
and property, and an impartial administration of
justice ; and as individuals, of finding merit
rewarded with honour, and abilities with profit.
We have lately emerged from a long and arduous
conflict, in which, while we were taught the blefl
ings of peace, have been draining those sources
of wealth, which, if much encreafed, would pro
bably have introduced luxury and effeminacy,
which are so fatal to the independence and hap
piness of a people. During the struggle we be
came poor, but were still ambitious ; and by the
fruitful collision of pride and poverty, were
struck out those sparks of invention, which have
beenfo improving to arts and manufactures, that
our ports are already shutting against foreign
merchandise.
" Our cash which has flowed in such plentiful
streams to foreign markets, will now be put into
the pockets of the industrious poor ; and those
evils, which have been so long oppreflive to them
will be converted into bleflings, and by giving
them employment will become their support.
The method proposed for collecting a revenue by
impost will have a tendency to lighten the bur
dens of the poor'; to give a check to luxury and
encouragement to industry. It is complained by
some, that our government is too expensive and
numerous ; but " in the multitude of counsel
lors thrire is fafety." Let us not anticipate evils
that are not, and probably never will be, real.
Our profpeifls are certainly good, and we have
well grounded hopes, that, under the patronage
of confederated wifdoin, the good work, in which
is begun our happiness, will be continued and
completed. And we may prelume, with the fa
vor of Providence, that we shall be prosperous ;
that it will soon be the triumphant and joyful
acclamation of every American, that " where
liberty and happiness dwell, there is my country."
(Worcejler Speculator.)
A Hymn on a lateJacramental occasion in our next.
The Squadron of His Most Christian Majefly's
Fleet y ?nentioned in our laft y under the Commajid of
M. Le Vicomte De Ponteves Gien, arrived in
Boston haroor, the third inf\ant.
ARRIVALS. NkH-YOR K.
Sunday, Sloop Industry, Dmnj Philadelphia, 6 day.
Monday, Schooner Backus, Dekay, Quebec, todays.
Sloop Aurora, Cahoone, Rhode-Island, 5 day.
Tutfday, Ship Evarietta, Lindfay, Hjvre-de-Grace, 56 days.
Schooner Adventure, Parker, Kingston, 31 days.
Sloop Fanny, Gore, Edenton, (N.C.) 12 days.
Sloop Hudlon Packet, Bencker, Edenton, 12 days.
Sloop Hancock, Brown, Rhode Iflapd, 2 days.
Sloop Eleanora, Taylor, Leith, 70 days.NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER. 9, 1789.
LETTER front a gentleman in a neighbouring, town to his friend in
this city.
DEAR SIR,
THE newspapers you fentme containing two *letters, wrote by
some members of the House of Representatives to their conftituenu
in Pennsylvania, ujion the fubjett of compensations, andinjuftifi
cation of the fame, as agreed to by t.ie House, have come fafe tc
hand. I have read these letters with attention and surprise ; and
it is difficult for me to suppress my wonder, that gentlemen can
adopt such exceeding weak and inconsistent arguments in juftifica
tion of a measure which they declare themfelvcs to be convinced
of the propriety of. There is scarce any one thing that gives one
a more unfavorable opinion of public measures, and leads more to
a doubt of their utility, than to find weak and flimfy arguments of
fered in support thereof,by their warmest advocates. But these letter
writers do not stop here; for their arguments and reasoning, weak
as they appear to be,are yet fouonded upon misrepresentation, and
a reference to fads which have no real existence. What can be
more distant from truth than to fay, as one of them does, that
fix dpllars a day is less than was given under the articles of con
federation by the States, except New-Jersey ? Thefaft is, New-
Hamplhire, MalTachufetts, Conne&icut, and some others, for
years, gave their delegates no more than five dollars a day ; and
this fuin under circumstances very disadvantageous to the receiver.
He fays further " that Massachusetts gave her delegates a guinea a day
and paid all their expences of board&c. befidesThis is totally falfe.
In r.o period, if I have been rightly informed, did the Common
wealth of Massachusetts allow her delegates, under the old con
federation, a guinea a day, and pay their expences besides; but
on the contrary, for two or three years, that Commonwealth paid
their only dollars a day, out of which they paid
their expences. Surely this writer must have been ignorant of the
fa£ta, or he was difpoled to lead his correspondents, and through
them as a medium ot communication, his constituents, into an
error. Gentlemen who mean to reason, and draw conclusions
from fatts, ought to be careful that their facts are true : But in
the present cafe, it seems not to have been advantageous to the let
ter-writer's object, which was to jujlify to his constituents, the com
penfalions allowed themselves and under officers, to fuffer the truth of
fact to be known ; for had he done this, they would have drawn
conclusions, and justly too, the reverse of what he wished to put
into their mouths. MalTachufetts never gave more than fix dollars
a day ; and but a very tew years, when money was scarce half so
valuable as at this time, did they come up to that sum.—The
fame is fa£t with many other States.
He is equally mistaken when he advances that had a medium
been struck from the guides left by the States, the wages of the
members would have been nearer seven than fix dollars: For if
an accurate enquiry be made, I doubt not but it will appear, that
a majority of the States, for half the time under the confederation
or more, have given a sum under fix dollars, taking into con
sideration the value of money during that and the present piods :
and in general have verged father towards a sum under than over
fix dollars. But these letter-writers drive on with one misrepre
sentation upon the back of another, as though they were deter
mined to confound the understandings of their constituents with
falfehoods, or run themselves out of all credit upon this fubjeft;
and I am suspicious that the latter would be the cafe were the
whole truth to be known. In the rage of juftifyingtheir condu&
to their constituents, one of them hesitates not to declare, " that
" the sums granted by the States to their delegates were paid dur
" whole year; whereas, the sum voted for us (that is the
" present Members of Congress) will be paid only two or three
" months in a year." Is the author of this aflertion an honest man J
If you answer in the affirmative, I must reply, he has undertaken
to write upon a fubjeft of which he is most consummately igno
rant : or so prejudiced in favour of his fix dollars a day, that every
thing entering his mind is immediately converted into an argu
ment to juftify the measure, I think I may fay with truth, that
not more than two States have uniformly allowed their delegates
a salary by the year. Indeed I doubt whether any State has done
this, but South-Carolina. But how does this wonderful logician
know that Congress will set only two or three months in a year?
Admiting, however, that in some future years two or three
months a year will be fufficient for Congress to discharge the duties
required ot them by the citizens of the United States ; artd that fix
dollars a day will be a moderate compensation for their service'
and time then rendered their constituents : I fay admitting this tc
be true, how does it juftify, or even look like a allow
ing that sum to the Members of Congress at this time, since the}
will be employed more than eight months a year during the pre
sent ele&ion. This writer evidently admits, that the pay of the
Members ought to be in some inverse ratio of the sum to the time
they fliall be employed at Congress : That is if they are employ,
ed two or three months in a year fix dollars is a moderatate com
penfation.—lf a longer time a smaller sum will be just. But here
he has forgot the force of his own argument, and fixed a sum,
which would be reafonablc when the members are engaged onl)
two or three months in a year, v for their pay now they are a&ual.
ly employed fix months, and perhaps more in a year. But the
real truth of the matter, I believe is this, those who advocate
hjgh pay want the money.—They are sensible the sums the House
has agreed upon are high,compared with the general sense of theii
constituents, or to the grounds on which compensation is usually
founded, and they are now drove to mifrepiefentation and sophis
try to juftify their conduct.
" Our constituents," continues one of these letters, " in complain
*' 2n gi f or g ct - the facrifice we make of domestic happiness, time, and even
" health to their ferviceTo this I cannot help observing, I am
not acquainted with any scale, by which diuinal pay or compen
sation can be adjusted, as an equivolent, for the facrifice of do
mestic bapppineis; therefore*, till he or some body else shall sup
ply me with one, I am unable to fay that fix dollars a day is ei
ther too much or too little, on this account: I am of opinion,
however, that domestic happiness is a very uncertain rule to ad
just pecuniary compensations by ; and were we to judge from the
apparent willingness that some tarry at the feat of government,
it would be doubtful whether their 'being from home ought to
operate to the increase or diminution of their compensation on
the score of domestic happiness.
As to the facrifice of health, I don't know that a gentleman
riiques his health in attending Congress, where they set not more
than three or four hours in a day, and frequently not more than
five days in a week : That is twenty-five or thirty hours in seven
days ! Very tender and delicate indeed , our Members of Congress
are grown all at once. If I did not apprehend the ladies would
look upon it an usurpation of their department, I would propose
that these extreme delicate temier gentlemen should be recalled
from the laborious, fatiguing employment of walking to the Fe
der.il Hall and setting there three or four hours in a day for five
days in a week, and put to knitting; or if that be too hard for
them to handling the cambric needle. . Not many days since I
fell in company with one of the Members of Congress, whole
countenance was plenary evidence that roast beef and generous
wine were his favorites; and yet he complained most bitterly of
ili health and want of exercise.—l aiked him if he took the air
every morning—for Congress not meeting till eleven,the members
had abundant of time to walk or ride both for health and amufc
ment. Oh dear, replied the ruqdy picture of health andftrcngth, I
cannot rife early enough in the morning for that; my health wont
admit my rising before eight or nine ; and then I have barely time
to dress before breakfaft, which brings eleven o'clock. Poor fee
ble son of Mars, quoth I, I pity you; sleep and delicacy will
hurt you more than the duties of your office. So we parted.
* The letters here refer edto, werefrftpublif.cu in the Ncv-YoYk
Daily Gazette t on the i\lh and %\ft of A u gift.
Canthefe letter writers be serious when they offer such reasons
as are contained in their letters, to their constituents tojuftify their
cbnduft to them in advocating grants of money which they eftecm
prof life ? If these arguments fatisfy their constituents, I am grieved
tor their want of information, and confefs to you that I have mis
taken their charatter. Many circumstances have led me to believe
the great body of the people in Pennfylvama to be a well inform
ed, judicious people ; whence I conclude they will relent, with
just indignation, the attempt these letter writers have made to
fatts, and impose error, instead of truth, upon their
undei (landings.
I would here close my letter, for I fear it is already too long,
but there is one argument made use of in these letters, which I
wish to remark upon; also because it is a favorite topic with
those who advocate high compensations : Indeed it has so o fieri
been employed, as appears by the news-papers and the debates
of Congress, that it actually (lips out on all occasions; it seems to
be used like the quack's noflrum, as a remedy for all difcafes. The
argument is couched in the following sentence : 44 If that policy
" (hould govern which you speak of in your letter, you can never
" expett men offmall fortune to accept feats in Congrefs,and many
" such possess eminent talents for public life. On the contrary
" your government will be administered only by a few arifto
•c cratic nabobs, who can afford to live without wages upon the
" income of large estates." I really wish this letter had pointed
out, or laid down some other clue than he has, by which these
rich men, or nabobs might be found, who, he fays, will be willing
to serve in Congress without wages. I declare to you, Sir, I have
found none of this deficription in the course of my acquaintance ;
and I have good evidence to believe there are none in America.
For many years I have been attentive to the conduftof man—l have
watched the rich, or as he expresses the fame character, thenabobs\
and the poor, or men of small fortunes ; and the uniform tenor of
conduct exhibited to the world by these two descriptions of men
has convinced me that the position contained in the quotation
not true : Because I find that mtnoifmallfortvnes, among whom,
tis confefled there are gentlemen of eminent abilities for pub
blie service, arc generally fatisfied with less sums, by way. of com -
penfation for services rendered the public, than those nabobs, into
whose hands he is fearful the administration of government will
fall. Therefore, to avoid what this lettcrfo much fears, and what all
friends to their country miift deprecate as the greatest calamity
that can befall the people, that ij the adminiflretion of our federai
government by nabobs, the fabrics and compensations for public
services mull be moderate. If the just sum could be known, it
would be better for the public that the salaries and compensations
mould fall short than exeeed that sum. Pray look round .you,
my friend, and fee who they are that raise this cry against mode
rate compensations. Are they the men of small fortunes ? No.
They are either the ariflocratic nabobs themselves ; or such as wish
to become nabobs, and will plunder the public rather than not
gain their point.
It is an uncontrovertable truth,that he who pofiefTes much wants
more in proportion to what he has already obtained. So that to
fatisfy these rich men or nabobs t by increasing their pay, is equally
absurd, as it would be to attempt to conquer death by filling the
grave with the carcasses of dead men. Theexpences of rich men
and nabobs are great, consequently it is such only who cry out
against small compensations in favor of great ones. These can
not relide at the feat of government without expending large sums
of money : They, from habits of luxury and diflipation, must
keep up that deportment of the gentleman which peculiarly requires
fix or seven dollars to discharge their daily expenditures. But
nabobs will never fubjeft themselves to such anexpenfive situation,
provided they must draw upon their own fortunes, instead of
compensations from the public, for what they expend.
On the other'hand, men of fmallfortunes, from which class of
citizens we must look for men of eminent talents as well as integri
ty and patriotism, have been educated in a mode of life that natu
rally creates habits of frugality, economy, attention to business,
and ufeful information. The expences of these are small; their
views are regulated more by the rules of private convenience and
public neceflity, than the van parade of a court, or the trifling,
tlio' expensive round of etiquette. The expences of these two
claffci of men are effcntially different, being regulated on differ
ent principles : Those of the former are fubjeft to the whim and
caprice of folly and fafhion—the latter to economy and prudence,
Hence, if you contemplate the nature of man, with the views
and pa (lions of those two classes, that is, the nabobs and men of
small fortunes, you will not hesitate to fay, these letter-writers are
mistaken in their reasonings and conclusions, as well as the facts
they would found their arguments upon.
When this fubjett is duly examined, it appears to me, that A
merica has nothing to fear from Congress fixing the salaries and
compensations small and moderate. This measure will always
secure the attention of men of small fortunes, whom it is an objetl
of importance to bring into the administration*. While high sa
laries and profufe compensation will hold out allurements to
fpendtjji ifts and nabohs, from whose sentiments and manners
Americi has every evil to apprehend.
One principle more is held up in these letters, most pernicious
to a republican government, which I (hall barely mention and bid
you adieu. It is that salaries and compensations (hould be so
high as very few persons dare prefentthemfelves as'candidates.
However thecitizens of Peiinfvlvania may swallow down such
sentiments, because they come from their representatives ; I hope
andtruft, they will be reprobated by every true republican whole
heart beats for his country's good. Good God ! Are the Le
gislators of America advised to affix such compensations as a re
ward for public services, that none but the rich and the nabobs dare
alpire toj —when these sentiments are adopted and pra&ifed upon
in AmeFica—then certainly we may join these despotic letter wri
ters, and fay, fareiuel to the liberties of our country."
EUROPEAN ACCOUNTS, BY LATE ARRIVALS.
CONSTANTINOPLE, APRIL 7.
The second division of the fleet has left the arse
nal, composed of four /hips of the line, from 50
to 60 guns, and fix frigates ; they are waiting for
sailors from the Black-Sea, where orders have
been fentto enlist them. All the maritime forces
are, according to the orders of the late Sultan, to
join at Bujukdere, and be ready to fail by the 22A
inft. but the departure of the grand fleet depends
upon the return of the firft division, and the
designs of Selirn 111, which are not yet known.
April 2J. Among the troops that are filing off
from Constantinople, five companies of Janiflaries,
of 1000 men each, quarrelling among themselves'
on their arrival at Pontepiccoli, a dreadful maf
l'acre took place, insomuch, that of the 5000 very
few arrived at the camp.
BERLIN, MAY 30.
We learn from JafFy, that the defeat of Ibraliam
Rafla, by the Ruffian general Dorfeld, has had
such an effeel upon the Turks, that they have ab
solutely abandoned the strong fortrels of Brahilow
and the Ruffians are marching to take pofleflion
of it. Galacz is strongly garrisoned by the Ruf
iians, who have found a rich booty in that place
the capture of which cuts off all communication
between Wallachia and Siliftria, with Rufchuk
and other places on the Danube.
LONDON, MAT Ij.
A question of pretty general confer* was deci<t
ed on Saturday in the Court of King's Bench
" Whether a person, at an audion, S had
retnft a bidding, previous to the lot beWkno C k
ed down ? It was contended that l, e had
upon the grounds that the conditions ex-nJii
Hated that the last bidder should be the W?
and that a perfpn's firit bidding, .and being s
liberty to retract, might prove injurious to oro
percy , by conveying an idea to the company thai
some defect had been discovered : but tl s J
over-ruled by the court, who observed that tl
make a contract binding the consent of both oar
ties was neceflary ; whereas in this cafe, the bid"
ding was a mere offer on one fide, which was not
accepted by the other until the hammer wasac
tually down ; and therefore the party had certain
ly a right to retract while that was fufjpcnded.
JUNE 20.
ExtraCl of a letter front Paris, June i.
- De ,a layette continues to ast a fteadv
faithful part in favor of the rights of mankind
" The Comte de Mirabeau, by a series of pro'
ftitute, unprincipled conduct, has loft all the
weight he might have had, and to which his
talents and enlightened mind entitled him on
this glorious occalion.
" M. le Meunier, one of the deputies for Dan
phiny, and mover of the glorious revolution, last
year, in that province, is looked up to with hope
and confidence by the nation.
" The disputes between the Three Mates are
far from being in a train of accommodation. The
Noblefle, at leaftat Paris, liaverefumed that hau.
teur which we imagined they had been inclined
to lay aside. The Clergy began to repent ofthe
concessions which they made to the Tiers Etat,
who, oil their fide are determined to throw down
every barrier between the people and the honors
of the state, and to abolish every odious diftin&ion
between the various clafTes of citizens.—A fracas
happened last week on the Point Neuf, whichwas
attended with the most serious consequence.—The
Count de B lie, riding furioufly, and without
giving notice, in a pha:ton and four, over the
bridge, rail down several pedestrians. One un
fortunate man loft his life, and several had their
limbs desperately crushed. A general cry of
" Arretez, arretcz le foutre," was vociferated
from all fides. In a moment the carriage was
flopped—the mob dragged from his feat the trem
bling patrician, and regardless of his cries and
piteous intreaties threw him headlong from the
bridge, just by the equestrian statue of King Hen
ry the Fourth, i his miserable martyr to intem
perate infolence,wasin an instant dashed to pieces:
in his fall. Not fatisfied with this vengeance,
the populace proceeded to demolish the carriage,
which they broke into a thousand fragments."
Among other privileges now contending for
by the French nation, is that of trial by jury,
which if once established, will for ever secure
their political and personal liberties 011 a basis so
firm as can not be overturned, but by a power
that mult convulse the whole kingdom, and tear
up all remains of civil liberty by the very roots,
July 2. The Romulus of America, General
Wafliington, palled, 011 the 21ft of April last, un
der the Triumphal Arch erecte4 on Trenton
bridge. He was attended by a procession, part
of which confiding of females, drefled in white,
preceded him,ftrewing roses, andfinging an ode.
Sir William Howe, when he left Philadelphia,
carried a Triumphal Arch to be eredted, under
which he walked with his brother, Lord Howe,
both crowned with laurel. We never heard vihj!
CONGRESS of the UNITED STATES.
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Wednesday the Fourth
of March, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Nine.
An ACT for fettling the Accounts letinicn tht
United States and individual States.
BE it enaClcdby the Senate and House of Reprtftfr
tatives of the United "States of America in Congrcji
assembled, That the President of the United States
be, and he hereby is impoweredto nominate, and
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate
to appoint such person or persons as he may think
proper, for supplying any vacancy that now is,
or may hereafter take place in the Board of Com
miflioners, eftabliflid by an ordinance of the late
Congress, of the seventh of May, one thou fan
seven hundred and eighty-seven, to carry lIItO
effedl the said ordinance and resolutions of Con
gress, for the settlement of accounts between the
United States and individual States. ,
And be it further enaßed, That the said Boar
of Connniffioners be, and they hereby are j®*
powered to appoint a chief clerk, and such ot
clerks as the duties of their office may require,
and that the pay of the said chief clerk be i
hundred dollars per annum, and ofeachot' er
clerk four hundred dollars per annum.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG-
Speaker of the Ho.Je ofß,p"f<f' ''
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prcfident of the Uvtled H"' '
and Pre/idevt of the SetM
APPROV ID, AUGUST the sth, 1789. j C#*#/f
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prrfidcvt of the United 1
Publiflied by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, MaH> ek "
Lani, ncarthe Ofwego-Market, Niw-York. —[3M/ r,al '