[No. XLIX.]
THE TABLE T.—No. XLIX.
" The Coxcomb's course is vior.drous clever
THERE is not any person, among all my ac
quaintance, whole movements 1 have more
narrowly watched, than tliofe of a young cox
comb, who fonietimes vilits me. If the reader
wiihes to know why I have so critically inl'pe&ed
the actions of this finical youth, I will explain
my motives as concisely as I can. I have often
heird that every description of men have some
ufeful and commendable qualifications ; and in
order to ascertain the truth of this observation,
I pitched upon a coxcomb as the most suitable
fubjecft to bring the question ro a test. If any
valuable qualities can be dil'covered in such a cha
racter, 1 think we may pronounce with some cer
tainty, that no mortal is exempt from a lhareof
good properties. We ftioulddiftinguilh between
qualities that are ufeful to one's felf, and those
that are so to other people. My prcfent enquiry
lhall be princpially confined to the former.
In the firft place then a coxcomb can not be a
lazy man. lam fcifible many censorious people
are often ranking him with the idle and dilTolute.
The charge has no foundation in truth. Whoe
ver attempts to follow all the fluctuations of the
falhions, and fuffers no other person to keep a
head of him in this refpecft, will find full em
ployment for his avflivity and discernment. It is
impoflible any one can do this and be indolent.
The young fribbler, of whom I am now l'peaking,
is engaged in no profefled line of business, and
yet I know of no person, whose time is more in
ceflantly occupied. He mentioned to me, the
other morning, by way of apology for not per
forming ari engagement he was under, that he
had not had a leisure moment, for more than a
fortnight past. This aircumftance induced me
t« keep a vigilant eye over his anions, and fatisfy
myfelf in what manner, he consumed his days.
I called at his lodgings two or three mornings
successively, so early that I found him at home.
He employed nearly three hours in drefling, and
I am convinced he could not do it in a ftiorter time.
More than an hour was devoted to the barber,
and the reader may be certain it was not a mo
ment too long. The fop had almost as much to
do as the barber, for he rose from the chair, ten
times in the course of the operation, to fee if all
the hairs were well adjusted. But the hardest
ta/k was with the boot-maker. My friend had a
dozen pair of boots to try, and it took him more
than fifteen minutes to draw one boot over his leg.
In the course of the experiment, I am confident
he went through more fatigue, than a laboring
man would have eudured, by breaking flax smart
ly for ax hours. It would be endleis for me to
particularize all the objecfts, which unavoidably
fall in the way, and prevent a coxcomb from
wearing away his moments infloth and inactivity,
ft mult be remembered that he has the process
of drefling to pals through,twice in twenty-four
''I 3? 1 ! 8 ' The remainder of his time is spent in
visiting and in some fafhionable amufeinents,
which can by no means be performed by a lazy
man. These remarks will, I hope, exculpate my
drcfly acquaintance from the charge of indolence.
But a more beneficial efietft, than that just
mentioned, is derived from being a complete cox-
in the fecuriry it affords a man again ft
thepainsand inconveniences of being captivated
v '' £ h female charms. It is well known that one
of these butter-fly men loves no created being so
well as himfelf. His whole powers of admiration
nnd employment about his own person. Any
disgust or inattention, Ihewn him by a female, is
called caprice ; and is iuppofed to result from a
of elegance or purity of taste. Thisfhel
'"■ anlnfttfcefe frequent impreflions, which men
0 less perlbnal vanity feel, is no inconsiderable
wantage. It may fairly be denominated a ulfe
ul quality to the person whopofleileSitv Though
e xt rav agantly admires no lady, still he may be
1 te friend and patron of many. Superficial women
com t his attention becaule they are pleased with
us finery ; and fenlible women have pleasantry
enough to indulge his vanity and felf approbation.
us fbrjns of politeness and good humour are
and he will grant the ladies every
jo' n g they alk of him, except his admiration and
A Hill greater utility, in being a devotee tb
(f j! a proceeds from its being a pretty
e euual guard again ft' grass intemperance, a lit!
•iiany other vices destructive of health and mo
',l The life of an abandoned profligate is
lot compatible with that of a finifhed coxcomb.
ei y different paflions give rife to these charac-
s > and they have very different objetfts in-view.
at^ 116 ? extrava g a nt diflipation are generally
ei ' with rough language, than which no-
WEDNESDAY, September 30, 1739.
tiling can be more disagreeable to a man of real
foppery. He avoids every situation where he can
not be looked at and flattered. His inclination
leads him among genteel people, who admit him
as an aflociate for the civility of his deportment,
and who are themselves too well bred to call in
queftionhis claims to admiration.
Lipon the whole, I am induced to believe that
moll people entertain too mean an opinion of
coxcombs. It is a much more Unexceptionable
character than is usually imagined ; and a well
ihaped stripling, who has rich friends, and slender
talents, maybe said to have taken his belt destiny:
when dress is the objec r tofhi9 care, and personal
vanity the motive of his condudt. By this means,
he will at least escape being a lounger, as he
must of courfebe aiftive and busy to keep up the
part he aflumes.—Nor will he probably become
a drunkard, a knave or a blackguard ; for he
can be neither of these, without eflentially inter
fering with the main wifliofhis heart,to be com
plimented as a /west pretty ftllww.
Ihe Addrels of the Reprefeutatives of the Free
men of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in
General Aflembly met.
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
SIR,
THE representatives of a free people can
not comply with their duty to their constituents
more to their fatisfa<stion, than by paying a just
tribute to the merits of one, wliofe important
exertions, unexampled perseverance, and distin
guished military talents, have eminently contri
buted to the establishment of their liberties. Im
prefled with the mod lively sense of your love
for your country, invariably evidenced in the
course of your part services, and of which you
have given a new proof, by facrificing your pre
dilection for private life to the desires of your
fellow citizens, and again appearing on the pub
lic ltage, we molt lincerely congratulate you on
your elevation to the high station you now fill.
I lie citizens of this State, having been among
the lirft to adopt the system of federal govern
ment on which they so much depend for their
portkm of the national prosperity, can not but
be highly gratified by the progress which has
been made towards its compleat organization ;
and they have a pleasing addition to their fatis
latftion, by your having been so unanimously pla
ced at the head of it. We are confident that we
declare the lenfe of the people of Pennsylvania,
when we ailureyou of the firm and cdnftant sup
port of this State in all meal'ares, in which its
:iidfhall beneceflary, for rendering youradmini
ftration cafy to yourfelf, and beneficial to your
country.
We deem it a circumstance which strongly
marks the good sense and virtue of our country
men, that they peaceably and deliberately con
curred in a frame of general government, which,
we firmly trust, will, in its operation, dignify
our character, entitle us to rclpert among thenu
tions, and ensure happinefsand fafety to us and
our polterity. With hearts expanded beyond
the limits of our own country, we most ardent
ly hope that the influence of "this novel but bright
example, may be extended, till fi-eedom, under
governments of laws, not of men, shall bless the
opprefled of every climate and country. The
old will then be experimentally taught by the new
world, that reason, virtue, union, moderation
and patriotism, can, under the smiles of heaven,
without the sword, accomplish the happiness of
nations by pacific revolutions in their political fy
llems, wlienloever they require them.
With the warm eft wishes for* your personal
happiness, we fervently beseech the great Author
and Supporter of our exiftente, that he will, by
granting you a continuance of health, long pre
serve a life so dear to your country, and exem
plary to mankind.
The Answer of the President of the United States
to the foregoing Address was received and read
September 16, as follows—
To the Representatives of the Freemen of the Com
nlMwitlth of Pennsylvania in General Assembly met.
GENTLEMEN,
WHEN the representatives of a free people,
delivering the sense of their constituents, give
such marks of affectionate attachment to an indi
vidual as are contained inyour addrefe to me, it
must caill forth the vr arm eft acknowledgement
of a grateful heart. Under this impreHion, I
beg you to believe that your favorable opinion of
my past conduct, and kind congratulations on my
elevation to the high station which I now fill, are
indelibly marked on my mind.
The early and decided part which the citizens
of Pennsylvania took in behalf of the present
[ Publijhed on Wed?iefday and Saturday.]
system of government, can not be forgotten by
the people of these United States ;—and, in ac
knowledging the grateful sense which I have of
your afliirances of the firm and constant support
of your State, in all measures in which its aid
(hall be neceflary, for tendering my adminiitra
tion easy to myfelf and beneficial to our country,
I trust that I meet the concurrenfce of all good
citizens.
The virtue, moderation and patriotism which
have marked the Iteps of the American people,
in framing, adopting, and thus far, carrying in
to efled: our present system of government, has
excited the admiration of nations, and it now on
ly remains for us to acft up to thole principles
which fliould charadlerife a free and enlightened
people, that we may gain refpeft abroad, and en
sure liappinefs to ourselves and to our posterity.
It lhould be the liigheft ambition of every Ame
rican to extend his views beyond himfelf—and to
bear in mind that his conduct will not only affeift
himfelf, his country, and his immediate posterity ;
but that its influence and efFeift, maybe co-exten
sive with t;he world, and stamp political happi*
ness or misery 011 ages yet unborn.—To obtain
this desirable end—and to establish the govern
ment of laws, the union of these States is abfo«
lutely neceflary; therefore, in every proceeding,
this great —this important obje<ft fliould ever be
kept in view ; so long as our measures tend to thi»,
and are marked with the wisdom of a well-inform
ed, enlightened people, we may reasonably hope,
under the finiles of Heaven, to convince the
World, that the happiness of nations can be ac
complished by pacific revolutions in their politi
cal systems, without the intervention
of the sword.
Your wiflies for my personal happiness, and
fervent prayers for the preservation of my exist
ence, have made a grateful impreflion upon me ;
and I shall not fail to implore the Divine Author
of the Universe to beftowthofe bleflings upon you
and your constituents that tali make a people
happy. G. WASHINGTON.
' EUROPEAN ACCOUNTS, BY THE LAST ARRIVALS.
BERLIN, JULY 27.
Our Sovereign Itill continues unremittingly to
use his good offices for the pufpofe of bringing
about an accommodation beteen Russia and Swe
den, after having succeeded with his Allies, the
King of Great-Britain and the States General of
the United Provinces, in bringing Denmark to
observe a ftrid; neutrality. A Treaty with the
King and Republic of Poland is still on the tapis,
but not concluded. The opposition which the
Poles make to the views of the two Imperial Cotrrrs
may cause some change in their sentiments, and
in the endjpreferve a more equal balance in the
affairs of Europe.
VIENNA, JULY 13.
His Majesty the Emperor has not had any re
turn of the fever some days. Yesterday was the
day which was to determine whether the fever
was to appear again, or entirely to leave his Ma
jesty. Happily it did not return, which spread
universal joy throughout the empire. The Em
peror is uncommonly chearful, and takes a vast;
deal ofexercife in the open air. We now hope
our Sovereign will inalhorttimebe perfecftly re-
Itored to health.
LONDON, JULY 31.
It is probable that the Royal Exiles of France
will attempt to raise commotions ; but cut off as
they are, from communicating with their depend
ents, they cannot estimate the strength of their
friends ; and should they,at this juncture, open
ly attempt to raise forces, or by any means to
oppose the people, the life of the Sovereign Would
be in immediate danger.
It is a fa(fl that a gentleman of Hackney, of
reputation and fortune, has just returned from
Paris, who during his stay was in the midst of the
troubles ; and from good authority we inform
our readers, he was one of those who firft enter
ed the Baftile, and with a party secured the Go
vernor with others, after which they proceeded,
and entered a dungeon ofimmenfe depth, strong
ly secured with iron bolts and bars, where they
released an Englifli officer, said to be a Major
White, who had been confined a prisoner 26
years in that dismal cell. The key of the door
the above Gentleman has brought home ; it was
fnewn round the coffee-room at the Antigallican
Coffee-houfe, Threadneedle-ftreet, Wednefday 1
afternoon, among a number of French gentlemen,
who with great plaudits, exclaimed, Liberty ! Li
berty ! Liberty !
When the prisoners were liberated from the
Baftile, Major White presented a figure the mostsnlfcralile. Ihe Duke of Dorfct attempting to
hold a conversation with him. His Grace conde
icended to inform himof his lituation ; hut when
he told White that he had bren in the Baftile, he
contradicted him, bat with expressions that car
xied full conviction of dett'royed intellects. From
exterior difeale his presence' was very noifoine.
A letter from Rouen, July if, fays) here has
a f.td piece of worK.—About 2000 people
aflembled on Sunday last, broke open every gra
nary or ftorehohfe where grain was to be found,
and carried all off. One gentleman had three
cargoes taken from him. No bufinels to be done—
the gates all lhut, and the city surrounded with
soldiers. The mob went down the river and plun
dered two English brigs that were coming up
with grain, and swept all away. &
THE KING'S SPEECH,
Delivered on Wednesday, thei6th Tuly to the
STATES GENERAL.
" GENTLEMEN,
'• I ASSEMBLED you for the purpose of con
fultingyou 011 the most important affairs of State.
Nothing is so immediately intereftiiig, or so fen
ably affedls my heart, as the dreadful disorders
that reign in the Capital.
The Chief of the nation comes, with confi
dence, into the midll of its Representatives, to
telhfy his sorrow, and to intreat them to find the
means of restoring order and tranquility.
" } know that unjust fttfpicions have been en
tertained, that they have dared to aflert that your
jjerfons were not fafe. Will it be necellkry for
me to argue on the falfeliood of rumours so cri
minal, to which my known character crives the
lie ? 0
" But—l stand or fall with the nation—l con
fute in you. Afliit me in this exigency to main
tain tne welfare of the State. 1 depend on the
wisdom of the National Aflembly.—The zeal of
the Representatives of my people, re-united for
the public good, is to me a perfect fafeguard ; and
depending on the love and fidelity of my fubieds
I have given orders to the troops to withdraw
from Paris and Versailles. I authorise and even
requeit you to make known my intention's to the
Capital."
This speech was received with acclamations.
011 the 2ofh, at four o'clock, His MA TESTY ar-
V, ve „ d at tljc Hall, where he was received by
M. Bailly, the new Mayor of Paris, who ad
dreiled him as follows, presenting him at the fame
time with the keys of the city, and a national
cockade, which his Majesty put in his hat, and
wore. '
" SIRE,
• " If™/'" 1 y° ur Majefiy -with the keys of the pood
city of Paris—they are the fame which were pre
sented to HENRY IV. he had re-conquered
HIS PEOPLE, HERE IT IS THE PEOPLE WHO
lIAVERE-CONQUER.ED THEIR KING.
' lour Majejly comes. to enjoy the peace you have
iejtored to the Capital; you come to enjoy the love of
your faithful fubjeds. It is for their-happinefs that
your Majejly has ajfembled around you the Repnfen
tatiyes of the nation, and that you are about to concur
■with them in laying the foundation of Liberty and pub
"c l What a memorable day was that in
which your Majejly came to your feat 'like a father in
the viiajt of an united -family*, "whence you were re
conducted to your Palace by the-whole National Jlfem
bly—guarded by the Representatives of the Nation—
by an immense people ! Ton bore in your an
gujlfeatures the expressions of sensibility and hap pi
ttefs, whiljt' around you nothing was heard but accla
mations of joy—nothing seen but tears of tenderness
and love. Sire, neither your people, nor yonr Ma
jefiy will ever forget that great day— ft is tbemofl
glortou} day of the Monarchy— Jt is the epocah of an
augujl and eternal alliance between the Monarch and
the People. The circumstance is unparretted—it im
mortalizes your Majejly.— ] have seen the glorious day
—and, asifevery/pedes ofhappinefs was defined for
MKj, ihejirjl JunElion of th? flation in which the kind
r.efi oj myJeflow.-citizens has placed me, is to convey
toyou the expteffions of their refpett And lover
The King attempted to speak, but his emotion
was too strong to permit him to pronounce the
cliicourie he had prepared.
Mr. .B m u approached His Majesty, and after
receiving his orders, laid to the Aflembly : That
the Kmg was come to clifpel any remains of un
easiness which might ftrfl subsist refpedtino- h; s
drfpofition towards the nation, and to enjoy' the
presence and love of his people—that his Majesty
wished to fee peace and tranquility restored to
the capital, every thing return to its accustomed
order, and crimes punished according to the laws.'
Mr. Bailly then declaring that the King'was ready
to hear what any of the Aflembly had to fay.
His Majefiy soon after appeared at one of the
windows, with the National Cockade, and saluted
the people who filled the square before the town
hotilc, the windows, and covered the roofs of the
KOTES.
* On .Wee nefday, when he came to the National Aflembly and
<h«v. himfcUmto their arms for protsftion. ' '
I + ,V - *j AItI : Y h;,s rccelve<! jl'f unanimous thanks of the Na
t'dfrsl /.flcnibly, as Prefidenr, and made Mayor o! p<ui« by the.
unanimous yojj:e of his lellow ' '
houses, and now burst forth into heartfelt accla
mations of Vive i.e Roi, which accompanied him
out of thetown, ainidft the firing of Artillery and
Mufquetry.
August 4. The importation of Frcnch into
London encreafeS every hour, and will, in afhort
time, supply the vacancy of all the Englilh.
Were a native of Italy to come over to this town,
he might doubt whether it was Paris or London.
The French, when their present troubles are
at an end, will probably be released from their
load of debt; not by a general si-onge—not by
a march of the liolb under the Marquis de la
Fayette, nor of any other lioft in their favor, but
by a host of mally saints of gold and silver,
marching into their several—crucibles.
The Marquis de la Fayette, on the 29th of July,
sent the subjoined Circular Letter to chc various
districts in Paris :
" gentlemen,
" I trust ere long, that proper arrangements
will be made to define the diftintft provinces of
the Civil and Military power—arrangements that
will clearly mark out their separate functions and
offices, so as to procure the confidence and reli
ance on each refpedtive party. But your Civil re
gulations do not keep pace with ours—and from
them should originate every authority. Permit
me to look forward to a speedy and happy moment,
when every Article fliall be adjusted—and when
confufion /hall give way to order—when the citi
zen and the soldier fliall know and perform his
duty.
" The Mayor, as firft Magistrate, and your pro
per Representatives, will order and fee executed
the civil rights of the State.
"To guard the Capital— to execute Decrecs
of your Representatives— to obey you while living
—to .lie, if neceflary in your defence—thefe are
the duties of the military, whom I have the honor
to command. (Signed)
" LE MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE,
" Commandant General."
The following Articles form the Bafisofthe new Con
jlitution of France.
Declaration of the rights of Man
Principles of Monarchy.
Rights of the Nation.
Rights of the King.
Rights of the Citizens mider the Frcnch Go
vernment.
Organization and Functions of the National
Aflembly.
Neceflary forms for the establishment of the
laws.
Organization and Functions of Provincial and
Municipal Aflemblies.
Principles, obligations, and limits of the Tu
diciary Power.
f unctions and duties of the Military Power.
THE BASTILE.
A profound secrecy has hitherto been observed
ref'pevfting the mysterious trail faiftions of this en
gine of defpotifin. The late revolution, howe
ver, has unveiled many important and fino- u lai
en omittances till now involved inobfeurity.
The hiltory of the Iron Mask, a perfo'n who
was attended with great ftare,and allowed every
piivilege within the place of his confinement but
that of Speech, is at 1 ast difcovcred, and an ac
count of this extraordinary personage is actually
laid to be in the press.
Se\eial letters have been found among the Ar
chives from former ministers, nay, from fonie yet
alive, addressed to the Governor, in these words
" Receive the prisoner, and detain him fafefor
eight days. If you do not hear from me in the
meantime, give him a 'dose of the VinAmere."
Others fay briefly—«< Receive the Traitor—you
know the reft."
BASTILE ANECDOTE.
Among other atfts of oppreflion that have come
to light since the destruction of the Baftile, the
following one may not possibly be reckoned the
mterclling. In the year 1785, a person of
lank and fafhion in Paris, became enamored of a
beautiful young girl, Matilda, the daughter of a
respectable tradesman, who refufina;to encourage
his passion, (the father) was soon after thrown
into the Baftile. The lover of the girl, tile foil of
a wealthy citizen, and who was to have been mar
ried to her in a few days, dreading the like fate,
made his escape to Constantinople, where he en
tered into the military service, and acled as a vo
lunteer under the Grand Signior, leaving his in
tended bride under the care of a female Servant.
Oil the present troubles breaking out, the youno
man returned to Paris ; and, equally stimulated
by love and liberty, was the firft to enter the
breach made ,n the Baftile, and proves to be the
very grenadier who was so honorably and so just
ly aiftinguiflied by his countrymen*. What ren
ders the account still more important, and marks
ftil more strongly the justice of Heaven, the un
fcclingmonfter above alluded to, was met by the
lover,nfide the prison, where his implacable ha
froLTh^GT^oY^rfttct 11 " ,f ° rdCr ° f St ' LOU ' S '
trccl had hurried hurt to prevent tlip v-1 *
Matilda's father. But how different wash" ° f
du<ft ? Alter disarming him, he gives liin hisT?'
on Ins ihewing lum the cell where the n ,
mail was immured, from whence he inihm-l
llored him to the armsof his daughter tV*'
der will easily imagine the reft. & ' " erea -
The above Nobleman is we'll known in P ar ; s
and was nearly related tothelateGovernorofg
NEW-YORK, SEH embi* 30, ljjjq ~
PROCEEDINGS OF CONGR ESS
111 the MOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBtR 26.
A MESSAGE was received from the Senat,
witharefohjtion to rescind the former resolution
refpecfting the time of adjournment, and to fa
on the 29th instant. Inthis refolutionthe Houfr
concurred.
Mr. Burke moved to rake up the resolution
relpecung the mifreprcfentations imputed to the
pubhfhers of the debates and proceed'inos of the
House, which had been ottered by him and laid
011 the table.
1 he fubttancc of this resolution was, that as
the Printers had grossly misrepresented the de
bates and proceedings of the House ofßepiefen
tatives, their admiflion into the House ihould 110
longer receive the sanction and countenance of
the House.
The resolution being read, a warm debate en
sued between Mr. Burke, Mr. Bland, Mr. Cirr,
for, and Mr. Smith, (S. C.) Mr. Stone, Mr. Boudl
not, Mr. White, Mr. Page, Mr. Tucker against the
motion.
In the course of the observations, it was fur
mii'ed that the printers had been under out dmr
influence, that, for the purposes of party, thej
had misrepresented, altered, curtailed, mutilated,
and fupprefled speeches, greatly tending to in
fringe the freedom of debate ; "to injure the re
putation of the legiftature, and, 011 the fuppoli
tion of being fancftioned by the House, to hold up
the members in a ridiculous point of light, &c.
It was faid,no persons arefuffered to takeminutes
ill the British House of Commons; andthoit
was not contended that this should not be done
here, yet ifallowed, it ought to be under foine re
gulations.
_ In favor of the printers it was said, that ava
riety of causes might be afligned for the errors
they commit. —The rapidity of pronunciation pe
culiar to some gentlemen—the interruptions by
noise, and the lownefs of voices naturally gave
rife to miltakes—errors were committed in
tranferibing, &c.—That it mutt be forthe inter
est of Printers to give as full and as acctiratean
account as they could.—That glaring and wilful
deviations from the truth, would ruin their repu
tation, anddeftroy their business, See Some of
the southern gentlemen, who had been home
during the fellion, declared that persons of vari
ous descriptions, had exprefled themselves great
ly gratified with the debates, as publilhed in the
liewfpapers—thataltlio they supposed them inac
curate in many particulars, yet the refultof the
business determined they were eflentially right -
and ihey thought that the reputation of the
House had been promoted by those publications,
and tlie dignity and importance of the govern
mentadvanced in the view of thepeople,
Mr. Burke at latt withdrew his motion.
Mr. Tucker then moved the following Reso
lution, viz.
Resolved as the opinion of this house, that
the admission of persons well qualified and dispos
ed to take the Debates thereof , with accuracy anil
impartiality, would tend to convey ufeful infor
mation to the citizens of the United States, and
that every person admitted within the bar foi
that purpose, ought to con(ider it an indifpenfa*
hie duty to use his utmost ability to render hispub
lication correct.
This was objected to by Mr. Madison and Mr-
Benson, and after some debate withdrawn.
A meflage was received from the Senate ac
quainting the House, that the Senate had appoint
ed a committee of conference 011 the disagreeing
votes of theHoufes on the fubiecfi: of the Frocels
Bill.
The House appointed conferees to meet thofr
of the Senate 011 that fubjecft.
The House also received from the Senate the
bill for fixing the feat of government of the tin
ted States, to which the Senate had proposed an
amendment, by ttriking out all that part refpe 1
ing the Suf quehanna, and inferring a clause fixing
the permanent feat of government, at German
town in the State of Pennsylvania.
A motion was then made to pottpone the con
fideration of this amendment of the Senate ti
next felfion. On this motion after some de ate,
the ayes and noes were taken,and are as f°"° w T
NOES. Me(frs. Ames, Benfon, Boudinot, a (
wall ad er, Clymer, Floyd, Fotter, Fitzfimons, Oil
man, Goodhue, Grout, Hartley, Heitter,
Livennore, Lawrance, Leonard, P. Mublen e
Partridge, Van Renfellaer, Silvetter, SinnK ' 0 ■ >
Scott, Sherman, Thatcher, Trumbull, \ 1" 1 J>'
Wadfworth, Wynkoop. 29.iyES. Metfrs. Brown, Baldwin, Bland, Burke,
Contee, Coles, Carroll, Gerry, Gale, Griflin, Jack
son Lee, Madison, Mathews, Moore, Page, Park
er Smith, (M.) Sumpter, Seney, Smith (S. C.)
Stone, Schureman, Tucker, White. 2>.
'Mr.'Ames then moved to concur with the Se
nate in their amendment. Objections were made
to this, and on motion the House
without coming to a decision.
MONDAY, SEPT. 28.
A meflage was received from the Senate ac
quainting the House, that they had appointed
Mr. Johnson and Mr. Izard a committee to join
a committee of the House to wait on the Profi
cient, and inform him that the Houses had resolved
to adjourn the 29th }nft. to meet again on the
firfl Monday in January. TheHouie according
ly appointed Mr. Vining, Mr. Lf.e and Mr.
Gilm ' N, a committee for the purpose.
Read the report of the committee appointed to
ascertain the amount of the compensations due
to the members and officers of the House.
Ihe House then proceeded to consider the a
mendment of the Senate to the bill for fixing the
feat of government.
Mr. Madison moved a resolution, as a proviso
totlie bill, thatnothingtherein contained should
be construed to affecft the operation of the laws
of Pennsylvania within the said diftriiffc of ten
miles square, until Congress shall otherwise pro
vide by law. This was agreed to.
Mr. Madison moved to strike out of the a
mendinent thole words which comprehend within
the district such parts of the northern liberties
of Philadelphia as are not excepted in the Penn
sylvania acft of cellion. The question on this mo
tion was negatived.
Mr. Gerry then moved to refer the bill with
the amendment of the Senate to the next felfion,
and that in the interim, commiflioners should be
appointed to examine the river Delaware, and to
, report a proper lite for the eftablilhment of the
feat of government.
To-lhis motion it was objetfled that it was not in
order, fmce the question for postponement had
been decided in the negative 011 Saturday. Mr.
Gerry defended the motion, as this was for a
particular reference, the former for a general
one, and therefore the question was a new one.
The Speaker declared it not to be in order.
Mr. Lee moved to Itrike out the claufc provid
ing that the temporary residence should be in
New-York. This was negatived.
Mr. Boudinot moved to amend the amend
ment of the Senate, by annexing to it a clause,
providing that the feat of government might be
any where 011 the Delaware within the State of
New-Jersey and Pennsylvania, or either oftheni,
above Philadelphia, and below Ilowell's ferry.
Negatived.
The main question of concurrence was then
put, and the yeas and nays were as follow :
AYES. Mejfrs. Ames, Benfou, Cadwallader, Clymer, Fitz
fimoris, Floyd, Fofler, Gerry, G'lman, Goodhue, Grout, Hartley,
Hathorn, Heifter, Huntington, Lawrance, Leonaid, I.ivennore,
P. Muhlenberg, Partridge, Van Ranfellaer, Schureman, Scott,
Sherman, Sylvcfter, Sinnickfort, Thatcher, Trumbull, Vining,
Wadfworth, Wynkoop. 31.
NOES. Mejjrs. Baldwin, Bland, Boudinot, Brown, Burke,
Carroll, Coles, Contee, Gale, Griffin, Jackson, Lee, Madison,
Matthews, Moore, Parker, S?ney, Smith, (M.) Smith, (S.C.)
Stone,Sumoter, Tucker, White. "4.
Amellagc was received from the Senate with
tjie appropriation bill in which they have con
curred with amendments—Also, the bill to re
cognize and adapt to the constitution of tiie Uni
ted States, the ordinances of the late Congress for
the eftabliflnnent of troops on the frontiers,
with sundry amendments.
The amendments proposed by the Senate to the
appropriation bill were agreed to by the House—
Also, thofeto the other bill, excepting the seventh,
which occafionecl conliderable debate. This a
mendment was to strike out the two last fedtions,
which refpeiSs the number of militia to be called
into service, for the defence of the frontiers,
from the States of Pennsylvania, Virginia, and
Georgia— and to insert in lieu thereof, a fetflion
to empower the President of the United States to
m]l out such numbers as he may find necellary for
tliedefence of the frontiers generally. On mo
tion to concur with this amendment, the ayes and
noes were called as follow, viz.
AYES. McJJrs. Renfon, Carroll, Clymer, Foster, Gilman,
awrance, Lee, Madison, Parrridge,Sherman.Silvefter, Smith,(M.;
"tie, Trumbull, Wadfworth. 16.
aOKS. Mcjtrs. Baldwin, Bland, Boudinot, Burke, Cadwal
:'fr, Coirs, Contee, Fitzfimons, Floyd, Gerry, Heifter, Jack
£n, 1 ennard. Livermore, Matthews, Moore, Muhlenberg, Van
''i r tltaer, Schureman,Scott,Scney, Sinnickfon, Sumpter, 1 uckcr,
White, si,
1 Report from the committee ofconferrence on
| tp ciiiagreement between the two Houses, rei petfl
,ng the firft amendment to the bill for regulating
r.'oceffes in the courts of the United States, fta
,lng that they had come to no agreement, was
received.
> liis bill was further amended by the Senate,
and agreed to by the House.
ihs committee to examine the enrolled bills,
bought -,n a number which they had examined
•"id found correct, to which the Speaker affixed
his signature.
, meflage was received from the Senate by
tueir Secretary, informing the House, that they
had come to a resolution, to defer the considera
tion ot t'ne lalt amendment of the Iloufe to the
bill for establishing the permanent feat of the
Federal Government, to the next session of Con
grels. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2s.
A mclTage was received from the President of the United Stated,
by tne Hon. Mr. Jay, with the following communicatidns, viz.
UNITED STATES, SEPTEMBER 29, 1789.
Gentlemen of the House of Representatives.
His Mojl Chrijlian Majejly, by a letter dated the 7th of June lejl,
adarejjed to the President and Members ojthe General Congress of the
United States of North America, announces the much lamented death oj
"' s f° n the Dauphin. The generous condutt of the French Monarch and
nation towards this country, renders every event that may affefl his or
their pro J ferity inter efling tons ; and I shall take care to a/Jure him of
thefenfibility with which the United States participate in the affliclion
which a lojs so much to be regretted.mujlhave occaftoned both to him and
t0 thcm - G. WASHINGTON.
United States, Sept. 29, 1780.
Gintlemrn ofithr House of Representatives,
Having Ycjlerday been informed by a joint committee of both Houjfs
efCongrefs, that they had agreed to a rccefs to commence this day, and
to continue until the jirfl Monday in January next, I take the eirliejl
opportunity oj acquainting \ou, that con fide ring how long and laborious
this session has been, and the reajons which I prejume have produced this
rejo/ution, it does not appear to me expedient to rccommend anv mrafures
to their conjideration at'prefent. G. WASHING TON.
A message was received from the President of the United States,
by Mr. Secretary Lear, with four Ads of the Legitlature, which
have received the approbation and signature of the President.
Mr. Gekry introduced a rcfolution to the following purport,
That it shall be the duty of the Clerk of the House, and Secretary
of the Senate, to transmit an attested copy of the Journals of cach
House, to the Supreme Executive, and to each branch of the Lccrif
latureof the leveral States, refpe&ively. This was adopted, and
sent to the Senate for their concurrcnc<\
A meHage was rcccived from the Senate, informing, that they
concur in the above relolution.—Alfo, the bill to eftabliih troop ,
&c. for the dcfence of the frontiers, was sent down by their Se
cretary—the Senate infilling on their seventh amendment to fa:d
bill. Also the rcfolution on the memorial of John White,
concurred in, with amendments, which amendments were ac
ceded to by the House. The Senate also sent down an ast which
they had puffed in favor of the liaron de Glaubeck.
The House then took up the above seventh Amendment, and on
motion to adhere to the original fettions, the question being put
was negatived.
The question for concurring with the Senate was then carried
in the affirmative, by a large majoiity.
The House then pafled the bill inform, for allowing the pay
of a Captain for a certain time,to Baron de Glaubeck : which be
ing enrolled, was signed by the Speaker. The bufincfs afligned
for the present feflion being finilhed, the Speaker, pursuant to
Resolution, adjourned the House to the firft Monday in January
next, then to meet at the city of New-York.
["The above, closes our account of the proceedings of the firft
Session of Congrt f% under the New Constitution. Wehave aimed
to be impartial and accurate —and as particular as our limits would
admit. II the avidity with which the (ketches have been received
and read, is not indicative of their intrinsic merit, it conveys these
>deas very forcibly, that the Constitution is an objett of prime con
fluence, and that the tranfa&ions of the General Government arc
considered as highly intcrefting to the good people of this confe
derated Republic. The original publication of these fkctches in
the newlpapers of this city, has proved a fountain of information,
to every part of the Union : The streams conveyed through the
medium of the innumerable channels of Intelligence, with which
these rising States are so highly favored, have served to give the
government a more realized exigence, by bringing it home to the
door of tvery citizen. This method of laying open to the full
vuew of the people the proceedings of their political Fathers, is
productive of the happiest eflfefts : It prevents innumerable impo
sitions arising from mifreprefentat'.on and falfehood ; it unfolds
principles, and exhibits characters in a just point of light; the
people learn to know whom to trust, and to give honor to whom
honor is due. May the Freedom of the Press always be justly
prizecK and facrcdly preserved by the free citizens of the United
States.]
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER 30.
The Pr esident of the United States has been pleased to no
minate, and by and witli the advice and consent ofthe Senate, to
appoint,
JOHN JAY, of New-York, Chief Justice.
John Rut l edge, of South-Carolina,
James Wilson, of Pennsylvania, I
W 1 l nam Cushinc, of Malfachufetts, /• Allociate Judges.
Rorert, H. Harrison, of Maryland, l
JofiN Blair, of Virginia, J
Dijlritt of Maine.
David Sewall, Judge—William Lithgow, Attorney—Henry
Dearbourn, Marjhal.
Dijlritt oj New-Ham psh i re, John Sullivan, Judge—Samuel
Sherburne, jun. Attorney—John Parker, Mjrfhaf
bijlrift oj Massachusetts, John Lowell, Judge—Christo
pher Gore, Attorney—Jonathan Jackson, Mar/ha/.
0/" Connecticut, Richard Law, Judge—Pierpont
Edwards, Attorney—Philip Bradley, A\arfhal.
Dijlritt oj Pennsylvania, Francis Hopkinfon, Judge—Wil
liam Lewis, Attorney—Clement Biddle, Mar/ha/.
Diflritt of Delaware, Gunning Bedford, Judge—George
Read, jun. Attorney—Allan M'Lean, Marshal.
Diflritt of Maryland, Thomas Johnson, Judge—Jofcph
Potts,* Attorney— Nathaniel Ramfey, Marjhal.
Edmund Pendleton, Judge—John
MarOiaU, Attorns —Edward Carrington, Marjhal.
Dijlritt of South-Carolina, Thomas Pinckney, Judge—
John Julius Pringle, Attorney—lfaac Huger, Marfha!.
Diflritt of Georgia, Nathaniel Pendleton, Judge—Matthew
M'Allifter, Attorney—Robert Forlvth, Marfha/.
Diflricl of Kentuckey, Henrv Inness Judge—George Ni
colas, Attorney—Samuel M'Dowell, jun. Marfha/.
Dijlritt of New-York, James Duane, Judge —Richard Har
rifon. Attorney—William S. Smith, Marshal.
Dijlritt of New-Jersey, David Brearly, Judge—Richard
Stockton, Attorney—Thomas Lowry, Marjhal.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
EDMUND RANDOLPH, Attor nfy-Gf.neral.
SAMUEL OSGOOD, Postmaster-General,
WILLIAM CARMICHAEL. Esq. Charc.es de 3 Affaires
from the United States to the Court of Spain.
* Mr. Potts was not atted upon, it having beenfuggtjlcd that there
was a mijlakein the Uuijlian name.
OFFICERS OF THE REGIMENT OF INFANTRY.
Lieut. Col. Commandant. Jofiah Harmar.
And a Brigadier General by brevet, behaving been appointed such
bv a Resolve of Congress, of the 31ft of July, 1787.
Majors. John Palsgrave Wyllys, John F. Hamtramck.
Captains. Jonathan Hart, David Zeigler, William McCur
dy, John Mereer, David Strong, John Smith, Joseph Alhton,
Eikuries Beatfv.
Li f.ut esANTf. John Arsntlrbr.;?, Jonn Pra!t, Et encztr troth
iagham, William Kersey, Thomas Doyle, William Peters, Jacob
Kinfbury, Ebenczer Denny.
Ensigns. Francis Lufe, Cornelius RykcrSedam, Nathan M:
Dowel!, Abner Prior, Robert Thompson, Ala Hartihorn, John
Jeffcrs, Jacob Melcher.
Surceon'. Richard Allifon.
Mates. John Elliot, John Scot, John 'Carmichael, Jo folia
Sumner.
OFFICER'S OF THE R AFViIIONOF ARTILLERY,
Major Commandant. John Doughty.
Captains. Henry Burbeck. William Eergufon, Joseph Sa
vage, James Bradford.
Lieutenant?. Johh Pierce, Mnfes Porter, William Mooi»e.
Diick Schuyler, Mahlon Ford, Matthew Erntft, Edward Spear,
Ebenezer Smith Fowle.
Surge6n's Mate. Nathaniel Heyward.
Extract of a letterfro?n Paris, July ij.
u The Grenadier who foaled the outer barrier
of the Baftile yesterday, has had a laurel crown
decreed him : An old officer who was witness of
his bravery and danger, tore frofri his own bosom
the order of St. Lewis, and gave it to the grena
dier in that moment, and laid, take this, thou art
more deserving of IT than i. Decorated
with this, and thd Grofi of the Governor of the
garrison, and the cordon blue, he has paflea the
Itreets and the square of Palais Royal twice—once
lupported by two grenadiers of his own corps (the
Guards Francois,) and the next time mounted.—
He is an old soldier, and bears 3pplaufe like anian
of good sense and great fortitude."
By some late accounts it appears probable, that the'ravs of free
dom will penetrate those darkrecefTes of ignorance and bigotry,
the Monaftcries and Nunneries of France : Should this be the cafe,
iminenfe treafurcs, that have for ages been (hut out from the light
of the Sun t will emerge into day.—Many a golden dove, that never
moved, will rind the use of its wings : Many a mafi V image, that
has been confined for centuries, will find its legs and walk off—
and being melted by the fire of Liberty, which reduces all bodies
to a proper level, will diffufe univei sal joy among the pockets of
the people.
How many fair, but wretched vi&imS to a blind teat; will re
joice in those glorious beams, which foall pervade the gloomy re
gions, where they thought themfclvcs immured for life ! Their
ncarts will bound with rapture at the music of Freedom—and re
stored to Liberty, and the rights of humanity, life will afTuttie r
new afpeft, when it invites them to enjoy all that they were intend
ed for by the beneficent author of exigence.
Extrafl of a letter from Bojlon, dated Sept. 25, 1783.
" Yesterday the Society oi the Cincinnati in this town gave a mofl
fplcndid entertainment at Concert-Hall to the Officers of His Most
Christian Majesty's squadron. The tables formed a serai-circle.
At the head of the Hall was placed a lull length portrait of The
President, with the real eagle pendant from the painted button hole.
On his right a displayed American Ensign . On his left a Freneh
ditto. Over his head was a Star, encircling three F.'eurs de Lis,
with the motto eflo perpetuj, At the other end of the Hall, the eye
was caught with a fine pisure of His Most Christian Majesty, with
the French Ensign on h s right, and the American on his left :
Over his head were thearmsof France, the motto Vive l.ouis XVI.
The Orchestra was coveied with blue broad cloth, edged with
white ; the thirteen Stars, and Thirteen Fleurs de Lis formed on
the ground a very beautiful Constellation : The bald soared
from the centre : opposite the Eagle, on the other fide of the room,
was the arms of Maflachufetts, finely executed. The chandeliers
and several parts of the room were ornamented with flowers, Th«?
whole forming as happy a coup d\cil as fancy can imagine. The
choicest viands, the most delicate paftery, and exhilerating winrs
crowned this feftive board : happiness fat on each countenance,
good humor and friendfhip reigned supreme: the toasts were ju
dicious. &c.
'• The A&ive frigate failed yesterday for New-York : She is
gone to carry the refpetts of the Chef of the Division, to The Pre
sident of the United States, the Ambafiadorof France, See.
LONDON.
Sortie of Gibralter. sty Mr. Trumbull.
Of the merits of thispidurc there ii a general concurrence of
opinion. The fubjeft is chosen with great judgement : And
while the artist celebrates the glorious triumph of one nation, he
has happily availed himfclf of the gallantry of an individual to
palliate the defeat of the other. This is liberal ; and the trophy
due to courage receives new honors from its being conferred in
a rival country.
As a work of art, whether we consider the composition, the
drawing, the expreflion, the effe£t of light and ftiadow, or the
coloring, we do not hesitate to pronounce, that we have feert
only two productions on this fcaleofthe English school which
we think equal to this : The death of Lord Chatham, and th<j
pierfon of Copley, rank highly in our esteem ; but the Wolfc>
tho in composition and design very beautiful, bears no propor
tionate claims to admiration with' ( the picture before us.
Monday morhirtg the Light Horse* and the other Independent
companies in this city, paraded in the Broad Way, under the im
mediate command of Col. BaukJa n—from whence they proceed
ed to the Race Ground, where they went thro a number of manoeu
vres in a manner that would do credit to regular troops ; after
which theyexhibited a sham fight, that afforded the highest enter
tainment to The President, His Excellency the Governor, and a
large concourse of refpeftable characters.
We cannot but with regret mention one unhappy circumstance
whichoccured, Adjutant John Loudon, a most amiable and wor
thy character, in the prime of life, received a wound (as we are in
formed with a buck ftiot, through the carelessness of one of th«
men in loading his piece) of which he expired on the field.—Bv
this forrowful accident, has his family been deprived of a dutiful
ion, an affectionate brother, and focietyof a worthy member.
Yesterday the funeral solemnities of Mr. John Loudon were
attended with every mark of public grief, which the truly affecting
circumstances of his death were calculated to inspire. The Pro
ceflion waspreceeded by two Companies of Light-Infantry, with
arms reversed, and the Holland Lodge of Free Masons, of which
he was a brother : On the pall were laid masonic and military In
signia : The diftrefled family ; the reverend Clergy, and a numer
ous train of mourning friends followed : The military Band play
ed a solemn Dirge, which according with the solemn sensations of
a vast croud ol citizens aflembled on the occasion, added, greatly
to the seriously imprefTive scene.
When a person dies in defence of a just cause, in the defence of
his country or the protection of the rights of mankind, we may
apply the expreflion ufedby the author of Cato,
How beautiful is death when earned by virtue ;
But when a person so truly and justly esteemed falls a facrifice in
a trifling way and on an unneceflary occasion, how ghastly ! how
shocking ! how terrible is death !
ERRATUM.
In No. 47, ice mentioned that the Aves <vui Noes cn the bill for fix /Vr
the feat of the Government, were called V-by Mr. Car ro? - v.is is a
' mi/take —it was Mr. Boun: not zc\o called far Those u 0 lave
copied th: above error are requejled to vfert i rs not\House of representatives of the united states, Septembe-
MR. GaRR\ , from the committee appointed for the purpose, made the following report, which beino; read, was laid on rI.P f-oi i
c conmmt e e appointed to report an estimate of the nett produce of the Impost and Tonnage duties, not having been able to procure rirl ° A
*or this purpose, were under the neceflity of fufpendingthe matter until statements of theimports, exports, and tonnage of the fevcral sJ CCUn^ nu
obmned, pursuant to an order of the House of the Bth of May last : The statements mentioned, of which feme have been lately reSiS C ° Uldbe
nut e y all the States, except Maryland, and authentic returns from the principal Custom Houses thereof, are furnifhed by -i Member f a . le "' ails '
5 r U c f ° T nom ™ ! hc re ! enuc laws frveral States, and the modes of Hating the! r accounts, as to defeat if? n £? t
o ei of the House for obtaining information. These considerations, added to the fluctuating state of commerce, and the probability rhar rJ.Tn
V n the * ederal Government, will differ from those under the State Governments, evince the impracticability of an accurate Jflimo. j
committee can only submit the following as the belt they could form, under the circumstances mentioned. eil.mate-and the
An ESTIMATE of the Cross Amount, and Nett Produce of the Ivipofl and Tonnage Duties for one year, -which will be col/elied in the fever at Stat°r am J
the latejl returns thereof under the exijling Afti of Congress. ' "A'"
A deduflion for a of, pr.cent. Adrawback Deduction
The orofs amount dlfcount of ten per or col ' cft ° rs >infpec- c ft, mate df luln Gross for pr. centage,
of Impost cent, of the dutieson fit" the returns of produce | amount of | whi hwillpro- j Mettamountofthe I Total a '3ount of the
imports by Ameri- * charges made from exports ot ihe °f the Impost. the tonnage bahably a- Tonnage duty ' producc ofl mpc !;
can vessels. f-ral State,. ' -tonnage.
NEW-Hampshi ßE, D ° L ,Z"t S ; D ° L C '""- D ° L Doi Doi C "" S - D °'- ?<"'■ D O L Cm
Co*"icricut* *' *768*4 8* 968 , 'g 8 5 46 7,4*7 20 8 9 J 28 si » h
bss£ "IL' «SS Bs
'fit mSS »*£l» «*s , 6 |s •«?
I 9 a 11 : :Si! : if
V , . ' J' 495 ' 8 ' 0 . 94i ', 81,104 74 | 14)147 2 | 36,047 56 | 1,364,5.. 6241 103,.93 57 j 619 .6 | 102,574 "ITT ' i 467 086 ~
From the above Eft.ipate, itwdl appear that the Nett produce of the Impost from the ift, and the Tonnage from the 1 «hAainft lift iT i
December next, computed according to the time, will amount as follows: 5 Au S ult lalt » t0 the 31ft
The Impost to Dollar., 568,546-50
The Tonnage to do- 38,465-40
charges, wh.ch on the Impost, are averaged a, the , pr. centum, and on ,h?,onnage .1n,,, a, ,'th. ofLepr. cent™,be '
(Remainder of the COASTING ACT, began in our laji J
Sec. 23. AND be it further enafled, That the matter, com
mander or owner of every (hip or vessel of the burthen of twenty
tons or upwards to be employed in trade between different dif
trifh in the United States, and of every vessel to beeinployed in the
bank or whale filheries, having a certificate of registry or enroll
ment,as is herein dire&ed, (hall upe n application to the collector of
the diftrift where such vessel may lie, be entitled to receive a li
cense to trade between the different diftrifts in the United States,
or to carry on the bank or whale filhery for one yeas, and it (ball
be the duty of the collector to grant the fame; but no license shall
he granted for any vessel until the owner or owners applying
therefor, shall have paid the tonnage duty thereon, and shall en
ter into bond, with fufficient security, for the payment of one
thousand dollars to the United States, with conditron, that such
vessel shall not within the time for which such license was grant
ed > he employed in any illicit trade or commerce: And if any
Vessel of the burthen of twenty tons or upwards, not having a
certificate of registry or enrollment, and a license, (hall be found
trading between different diftrifts, or be employed in the bank
or whale fi(heries, every such ship or vessel (hall be fubjeft to the
lame tonnage and fees, as foreign (hips or vessels.
Sec. 24. And be it further crafted, That the matter or com
mander of every (hip or vessel Bound to any foreign port, (hall
deliver to the eolleftor of the diftrift where such (hip or vessel
may be, a manifeft of the cargo on board such (hip or vessel,
and on making oath or affirmation to the truth thereof, it (hall
be the duty of the said eolleftor to grant a clearance for such*(hip
or vessel. and her loading; and if any ship or vessel, bound to
any foreign port, shall depart from the place of her loading with
out such clearancc, the matter, commander, consignee, or owner
thereof, (hall forfeit and pay the sum of two hundred dollars for
every such offence.
Sec. 25. And be it further enabled, That the master of every {hip or
vessel of the burthen of twenty tons or upwards, licensed to trade
between the different diftrifts of the United States, having on board
goods, wares or merchandize of foreign growth or maliufafture,
of tiie value of two hundred dollars, of rum or other ardent fpi'
r:tsexceeding four hundred gallons, and being bound from one
aiftnft to another, shall deliver to the eolleftor, and where the
eolleftor and furvcyor reside at different place® within the fame
diftrift, to the eolleftor or furvcyor, as the one or the other may
reside at or nearest to the port where such ship or vessel may be
duplicate manifefts of the whole cargo onboard such sKip or vef
ftl, whether such cargo (hall consist wholly of wares and
merchandize of foreign growth and manufacture, or partly of
iuch goods, wares or merchandize, and partly of goods, wares
or merchandize, the growth or manufacture of the United States
fpTcfiying therein the name and place ot residence of every shipper',
and consignee, together with the quantity of goods, wares or
merchandize (hipped by and to each; and upon the oath or af
firmation of the. said master before the said eolleftor or surveyor
to the truth ot such manifeft, and that he doth not know, and
hath no reason to believe that the revenue of the United States
hath been defrauded of any partofthe duties imposed by law
upon the importation® of any of the goods, wares or merchandize
contained in the said manifeft, it shall be the duty of such eolleftor
or surveyor 10 return to the said master one of the said manifefts,
firft certifying thereon that the fame had- been sworn or affirmed
? nC ? delivered to according to law, and also to grant to
the said master a permit authoiifing such ship or vessel to proceed
to the place of her destination.
So a/ways and provided, That when goods, wares or merchan
dizes of foreign growth or manufacture, are to be tranfportedto,
and from the tefpeftive ports of Philadelphia and Baltimore'
unto each, other through and across the state of Delaware, a ma
nifeft certified as aforefaid by the officers of that one of the said
ports from whence the fame goods, wares or merchandizes are to
be so transported, shall be fufficient to warrant the transportation
thereof to the other of said ports, without an intermediate entrv
in the diftnft of Delaware.
Provided aways, That no master of any ship or vessel, licensed
to tiadeas aforefaid, having on board goods, wares or merchan
dize, of the growth or manufacture of the United States only,
rum or other ardent spirits exceeding four hundred gallons ex
cepted, and being bound from one diftrift to another in the fame
itate, or from a diftnft in one state to a diftrift in the next ad
joining state, shall be obhgcd to deliver duplicate manifefts, or
to apply for a permit as al'orefaid ; but any such master may in
JL'.ch cale lawfully proceed to any other diftrift in the fame state,
or in the next adio;ning state, freely ,ind without, interruption.
Sec. 26. And be itfurther cnattcd, That the master of every such;
ihipor vessel of the burthen of twenty tons or upwards, licensed
to trade as aforefaid, having on board goods, wares or merchan
dize, of the growth or manufacture of the United States only,
and being bound from a diftrift in cne state to a diftrift in any
other than an adjoining Hate, shall deliver to the eolleftor, or
where the coljeftor and furvcyor reside at different places within
the fame diftrift,'to the eolleftor or surveyor as the one or the
other may reside at or ncareft to the port where fucli ship or vessel
jT/iy be, duplicate manifefts of the whole cargo on board such
ftiip or vessel, fpecifying therein the name and place of residence
ofcvciy shipper and consignee, together with the quantity of
goods, wares or merchandize fliipped by and to each : And upon
the oath or affirmation of the laid master, before the said col
lector or surveyor, to the truth of such manifeft, it shall be the
du 7 °f such colle&or or surveyor to return to the said master one
of the said manifefts, firft certifying thereon that the fame had
been sworn or affirmed to, and delivered to him according to
Jaw ; and also to grant the said master a permit, authorising such
ihip or vessel to proceed to the place of her destination.
Sec. 27. And be it further enadcd y That the master of every
ihip or vessel of the burthen of twenty tons and upwards, licensed
to trade as aforefaid, not having on board rumor other ardent
(pints, exceeding foui hundred gallons, and arriving from one
diftrift to another in the fame state, or from a diftrift in one
state to a diftrifl :n the next adjoining state, with goods, wares
or merchandize, of the growth or manufacture of the United
Stattsonly, fhalJ, within twenty-four hours, Sundavs excepted,
next after his arrival at any place or port where a colte&or or
surveyor resides, and before any part of the cargo on board such
Ihip or vessel shall be landed or unloaded, deliver to such collect
or or surveyor, a manifeft thereof, and shall make oath before
(uch colle&or or surveyor, that (uch manifeft contains a true ac
count of all the goods, wares or merchandize on board such shin
or vessel, and thereupon (hall rcceive from fqch, colle&or or sur
veyor, a permit to land or unload the fame.
C " be it further evafledy That in all other cases the
mailer of every vessel of the burthen of twenty tons or upwards,
licensed to trade as aforefaid, shall within twenty-four hours,
Sundays excepted, next after his arrival in any port or placc with
in the United States, where a collc&or or surveyor resides, and
before any part of the cargo on board any such sKip or vessel be
landed or unloaded, deliver to such colleaor or surveyor the ma
nifeft thereof, authenticated before and received from the collc£lor
or surveyor of a port or place where the said cargo was tajten ou
board, together, with his permit to depart from the place of lad*
ing, whereupon it shall be the duty of such colle£lor or surveyor
to grant a permit to land or unload such cargo.
Sec. 29. And be it further matted. That if the master of any
Imp or vessel, of the burthen of twenty toiw or upwards, licensed
to trade as aforefaid, and having on board goods, wares or mer
chandize, of the value of two hundred dollar*, or upwards, shall
depart with the said ship or vessel from any port, with intent to ec
to another diftrift, without such manifeft, and permit, except as ij
hereinafter provided, the master or owner of such (hipor vessel fhal
forfeit anti pay tlie sum of four hundred dollars for every fuch'of
tence, and all goods wares and merchandize, of the value of two
""ndredr dollars or upwards, which shall be found on board any
lucli thipor vessel after her departure from the port where the fame
were taken on board, without being contained in, and accom
panied with such maniteft as is herein before dire&ed ; except as
is creinaftcr excepted, shall be fubjeft to seizure and forfeiture.
Prmidtd always, That nothing herein contained (hall be con
ltrutd to lub,ea the master or Owner of any ship or vessel licensed
to trade as aforefaid, having on board goods, wares or merchan
dize ol the growth and manufaaure of the United States only, rum
and other ardent rpints exceeding four hundred gallons excepted,
and b ound f ro di(wa tQ d)({ria m(he orf £ m J
diltrict in one state to a diftnft in the next adjoining state, to any
penalty lor having departed from the port of loading without
luch permit and maniteft, or to fubjeft the said goods on board
""P " r vcffel ,0 seizure, or forfeiture in cafe they are not ac.
companied with a manifeftas aforefaid.
Sec. 30. And be itfurtktr uMiltd, That if any ship or vessel
,Z"\ g a j 'a rnC J e t0 l,adeor one year, (hall within that
time be defined to any foreign port, the master or commander of
ery such (hip or vessel, (hall before he departs from the United
h.i'l j 110I 10 I,ccnce to the colleftorof theport from whence
he intends to depart ; and it (hall be the duty of such colleaor
iSfcT-lf u ht hcc " tc t0 him so delivered, to the col
eaorofthediftria where thefame was granted, who (hall therr
nep°lrA Ca r C 'ffryT ry I."," 06 ; and ,' f a " y mast " o'conim'nder (hall
neglea or lefufe, to deliver up such licence before he departs from
dolhrl'f "V l , f S rfeLt and phy the sum of one h^dred
dollars for every fuehneglea or refufal.
tmStd, That the fees and allowances
the several duties to be performed in virtue of thisaa, and the
diftnbution of the fame, (hall be as follows, to vyit •
For the firft register, or certificate of record granted for every
; * Pa ' d 10 theC ° llea 'he fame!
For every subsequent one, one dollar and fifty cents •
ror every certificate of enrollment fifty cents
trade between the different diftria* of the
Sr fifty c^u.° rto Carfy °° thebaHk ° r for one
For every entry of inward cargo direaed to be made in con
foraiity with this ast, antffor receiving of and oualifvin
manifeft of veffds licUd to, trade .
tv,ln : r y a c P c e „ts.'' ttolind °' f ° rei S" or m.nuWture,
?Crmit t0 pr ° Ce€d l ° thc P lacc of twity-
And for taking eV«ry bond required by this ast, twentvcejt<
The whole amount of which fees (hall be accounted for by t cc
col eftor,and where there is a qolleftor, naval-officer, and furvevor
• bc c ? ua "y divided between the said officers, and where there
i! no naval-officer, between the collector and furvevor, aud wherr
t here is only * collector, he Q\all receive the whole amount thereof
and where there is more than one surveyor in any diftrift, each of
hem shall receive his proportionable part of such fees as (hall arifeia
the port for which he is appointed. Provided always, That in all
cafcs where the tonnage of any fhiporveffel fHaU be afcertamed
Dy any P«rfon fpecully appointed for that purpose, u is herein
bejore directed, that such person (ball be allowed and paid bvthe
collector a reafonablc compensation for the fame, out of the fees
aiorefaKi, before any distribution thereof asaforefaid.
3 2 - And be it further en* Bed, That in every cafe wherefhe
collector is by tlmaft directed to grant aoy licence, certificate.'per
nutor other document, the oayal-officer. if there be ostc rdidice
at the port, sHall sign the fame.
Sec - 33- And be it further enafled, That in every cafe where a
orieiture of any (h»p or or of any goods, wares and merch
andize inall accrue it (hall be the duty of the coUeftor oroikt
proper officer, wlu>(hall giveaoticc of the sale ps such fhiporveC-
A ° r -r goods, waresor merchandize, to insert imhefam*
a verufement, the name or names, and the place or places of refi*
dcncc of the person or persons, to whom any such (hip or vessel,
goods, wares or belonged or were corifiimed attht
time of such seizure.
it 34: And be it further enafled, That every collector vho
a knowingly make any falfe register, record or enrollment of
any ship or vefljs]; and every officer or n appointed as rt
erem pro.ided, who Avail make any falfe record, or grant any
falfe certificate, or ally document whatever, in any manner thzt
all not be herein prescribed, or that shall be contrary to thc true
intent and meaning of this ast, or shall take any other or greater
tees than are by this ast allowed, or receive any other reward or
gratuity, contrary jo the provisions 0/ this ast : andeveryfur
veyor, or other perfor ppointed to meafurc (hips or veflels, who
wilfully deliver to any collector, or naval-officer, a falfe dei
cnption of any (hiporveflel to be registered, -irolleo,
in pursuance of this ast, (hall, upon conviction of any fucn neglect
or offence, forfeit the sum of one thousand dollais, and be ren
dered incapable of serving in any. office of truiVor profit under
the United States ; and it any person or persons, authorifedand
required by this ast, in refpeft of hisortheir office or offices, to
perform any ast or thing required to be done or performed, pur
want to <uiy of the pnovitions of this ast, and wilfully
or jcfufingto do or perforin the fame, according to the true intent
and meaning of this ast, shall, on being duly convicted thereof, if
not fubjeft to the penalty and difqualification aforefaid, forfeit
the sum of five hundred dollar* for the firft offencc, and a like sum
for the second offence, and (hall from thence forward be rendered
»ncapable.of holding any office of trust or profit under theUuited
States.
n EC ' i{ f Urther That if any certificaee of re*
giftry, rceord, or enrollment, (hall be fraudulently used for any
jhip or vessel, not entitled to the fame by this ast, such (hipor ves
sel (hall be forfeited to thc United States, with her tackle, apparel
and furniture.
St.c. 36. And be it further enacted, That if any person or person*
lira 11 faLfely make oath or affirmation to any of the matters herein
required to bc verified, such person or persons shall fuffer thc like
pains and penalties, as shall be incurred by persons committing
wilful and corrupt perjury ; and that if any person or persons (hall
forge counterfeit, erase, alter, or falfify any certificate, register, li
cence, permit, or other document, mentioned in this ast, or to be
granted by any officer of the customs, such person or perfonsfhai-;
for every such offence, forfeit the sum of five hundred dollars.
Sec. 37. And zu/iereas, By an ast entitled, " An ast for laying
a duty on goods, wares and merchandizes imported into the United
States," it is provided, That there (hall be allowed or paid five
cents oneveryxjuintal of dried fiffi, and on every barrel of pickle
nfh, and offalted provisions, exported from the United States to
aoy country without the limits thereof, in lieu of the drawback 0
the duties imposed on the importation of thc fait employed and ex
pended thereto, and there are now large quantities of fait within
the United States, imported before any duties were laid fortne
use of thc said dates :
Sec. 38. Be it enabled, That no allowance (hall be made byan\
collector, for any dried or pickled fi(h, or for any faltedprovnio n j»
which (hall be exported from the United States prior to ti>- ai.
day.of May, one thoufaud seven hundred and ninety.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG"
Speaker of the House of Rcprcfentity
JOH N AD AMS, Vici-Prefident of the United totts,
and President of the Sctatc*
September 1, 1789. c ,
_OEORGE WASHINGTON, President ofjheJ^rnt^J^J^
Puijlifhed by JOHN KENNO, No. 9, Mai""'
La Nr., near the Ofwigo-hlarkct, New-York,—[3 ill-ps- 4 "'J