[No. XLV.]
TIF~E TABLE T—No. XLV.
<t ylnd each Jhort maid in [pits of nature
« jyj a y add a cubit t» her stature."
I HAVE often admired at the condescension
that women of mtrinfic elegance shew, in
fubmiting to an excess of faihions, which on
ly diminilh such charms as have a real exiltence
in nature. Simple neatness gives a beautiful
person far more pleasing attractions, than any
ornaments, which fancy or artifice can invent.
The most therefore that a fine woman ftiould aim
at is to avoid Angularity If in her dress, she
tfTuines any unusual glare, her appearance may
dazzle the eyes of beholders more, but it will
affeA their hearts left. The forms of etiquette
are designed to bring persons, who aflociate to
gether, °on some degree of equality, for the
time being. It hides the deformities of one, and
•veils the excellencies of another.
In a circle of ladies highly drefled, it is not
easy to form particular attachments. Those
causes that excite admiration feldoni engage
the tender sentimentS of the heart. For this
ttafon, a woman often has many admirers, who has
not a single lover. A towering fanciful head-dress
and other flaring deeoratiorts may be an advan
fc ett> a girl, whose size and figure are notnatu
fafay favorable ; but they have the reverse ef
fetft oti one who wears the graces of native ele
gance. In short, a Woman of inherent beauty
commits an imprudent acft, whenever she makes
Iter dress so conspicuous as to be looked at, more
than herfelf. It is rather a discredit to a charm
ing girl, that her most dangerous rival ihould
come from a milliner's shop.
The etiquette of courts, like that of dress, is
calculated to obfetire the real character. Those
*ho avertible at the levees of princes, all ap
pear tinder a mask. There are no circumftahccs
that indicate the peculiar qualities of men, on
ttiefe occafrons. If a blockhead commits no tnif
take, he pafles for a fafhionable man, and meets
With attention from pliilofophers. If the most
solid merit is unattended with a knowlege of
ctiijutnte, It will pass, in such a situation, as a
thing of no Value. Those rules, which knaves
have in all ages Invented for the fake of deceiv
ing and managing fools, ha*e obtained a cur
rency among the wisest and best of men. It is
Meeffsry that it should be so.
KftW-YORltj Sfcpt ember 16, >789.
ttETCHOF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
to the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of die
UNITED STATES,
SEPTEMBER 4.
Sekk on thfubieti of fixing the PERMANENT SEAT of GOF
ER \ r Kit. NT—"Continued.
Mr. $ ad! son : tf this delay should any alteration
in the sentiments of the gentlemen, it wjJJ at lead foften that hard
deeifion that feenrs to he so unfavorable so the friends of the Pa-
Wwmac. i hopfc wfe (Kail all cotftftrt- in the great principles on
whidb we ought to conduct jtid decidc this btiinrff*. I conceive
tkit an equal attention to the great -rights of every jwrt of the cottv
ffiunity is the principle on whioh we are to proceed. No govern
tawt, Sir, not even thCYfltm defyotfic, dan go beyond a cert a In point,
#ttbout ♦iotatvug that idea of eqwk fright, "which prtvaih in the
raind of every community, hi republican governments, justice,
aiidfaualuy form thebafisof tbe fyftera; and perhaps the Aruffture
ran reu on no other foundation that the wiidom of ma# can devise.
In a federal republic, give me lesve to fay, it is even more necef
that a fcaered regard should be partito tfrcjm. For
beyond tbe'fcnfe of the coronronity ast large, wtorch hfcs its proper
agency in Cuch a (Vfiera, no (ach government can a6t with fafety.
The federal interest involves local diftinfticms, which produce lo-
jtaloufies, and give at the fa'flre tifne a greater local capacity <0
'import and exert this fenife tHtrtl In a cohftaefacy of
Stotej,inwhhch the people operate in on* dire&io-ft as ekizem, tfnd
; i another aKiorrmngpokticalcoiMmrtiHes, the local govtrnmeats
will ever .poflefs a superior capacity to take advantage of those
Jxwtrrtffn which the protection of (Tieir rights depend. If these
rights be the basis of republics, and if thrre ere a double ne-
HTrty of attending totfoam in a frdrerai republic, it i« further to be
that-thefe isnoone of which the people can ju»d£e
eafcand certainty, and of which they will judge with
than of the cftablilhment of the permanent feat of
and Sir, I am peritraded that however often this
übjeft may be drfcufled m the rcpfeCeWatil'e body, or however
tkfe cottimuhfty *hny be drawn to it, tjfae obfcrva
<ions I have made will be more and more verified. We fee she
pftAioh of tTfi's feritiment fuljy exemplified in what has taken
place m the fevenrt State*. In every irrftontr where the Teat of go-
placed ii* a'fiecarWltfie trtifitioft, we have seen
P*°ple*trher'fucc*fjliulty ot wnfurarWttlly Jbuggh'ng to place
re 10 e - Jn.fame inihrxcGS they have not yet fuc
ked, -hut r believe fhey witlTucceed in all. Inmany they have
u gained their point. ,
One nf Virginta ftrtcc -the revo
wion, was the removal of the fetal df $ovenm<mrfcom an eccentric
o ntifijnoT>ne which conciponded more wkh the fcnft of t-heState,
• an ccvjal regard to the rights of the community. hi North-
J have Teen the fame •principle Operate :in South Caro
,, 4 c Jft Che Sfatfe-of PenYri*rlvo*n«, powerfol zrs the in-
in favtyrof vts we fe<m fetioifS-awd al
oit luiccefsful efforts c»lread.y to tranftale k to a tin ore proper
Tm!* -HeUware, where the government was as
, ® any other State, we have fecn
,/ ( ame operate. In the State of New-York wt! have seen
• With fotheftu^oßt*niis r ariCwgrffoiri oc«a-f>onal cir
of In.Mj>(lach«f i itts lhefai»e ctiotts have
WEDNESDAY, September 16, 1789;.
been made, and in all probability, when some temporary consi
derations cease, we iViail find'the feme prirtciplka6ttng there also.
Sir, it is not surprising,, when wc conlider the nature of!mankind,
that this mould be the cafe.
With refpeft, however, to the federal government, there is one
consideration, wttich flVews in a peculiar manner the neeeflity and
policy ofpaying a ftri£t attention to this principle. One of the
greatest objections which has baen made by the opponents of the
system, which has been admited by its friends, is the extent of
our limits. It has been aflerted by some, and almost feared by
others, that within so great a space no free government can exist.
I hope and trad, that the opinion is fallacious. But at the fame
time, Sir, acknowleging it to have a certain degree of force, it is
equally incumbent on those, who wilh well to the Union, that this
inconvenience (hould be diminiflied as much as poflible. The
way to diminiftr it, is to place the government in that spot which
will be lead removed from every part of the empire. Carry it to
an eccentric position, and it will be equivalent to an extention of
our limits. And if our limits arc altead-y extended so far as war
rants in any degree the apprehension above mentioned, we ought
to take care not to extend them farther.
But the truth is, that in every point of view in which we can
regard this fubjeft, we (hall find it a fubje£fc of importance. It is
important that every part of the community ftiould have the pow
er of fending, with equal facility, to the leat of government such
reprefenfativesto take charge of their interest as they are moll dit
pofed to confide in. If you place the government in an eccentric
fuuation, the attendance of the members, aid all who are to tTan
fa£t the public bufinefc, will not be equally convenient. The
members of the Union will not have an equal chance of being re
presented by men of the bed abilities. You do therefore violate
the principle of eqnaVtty, in a part which is peculiarly vulnerable.
If we c/ynTide* the ex pence} that is an inconvenience not without
its weight.
in the lad com penfat ions that have been voted, the eccentricity
of our pofilion has had a difa&reeable influence. The more re
mote the government is, the greater will be the neeeflity of making
liberal coxrtpenfations, and holding out powerful inducements in
order to obtain Cervice&bk men to reprefenf you ; and you can
make no diftinftion ; you mufi give to those who have the least
inconvenience, the fame as those who have the mod. The feat of
government isof great importance, if you ccmfider the diffuflon oi
wealth ♦hich proceeds from this source. T presume that the ex
penditures that will take place where the government will be
established, kv those who are immediately concerned in its admi
niftr&tion, and by others who may resort to it, will not be less than
half a million of dollars a yeaT. It is rb be regretted that those
who may be most convenient to the centre, (hould enjoy those
blcflings in a higher degree than otheis. But it is an evil which is
imposed on us by nee- (Iky ; we diminish it as we place the source
From which those emanations are to proceed, as near the center,
as poftibte.
It we confidtr, Sir, the eflVfti of legislative powerS on tlie agv
enegate community, we mud feel equal inducements to look for
the centre, in order to find the proper feat of government. Those
who are most convenient to the feat ©f legislation, will always
possess advantages over others. An early knowlege of the law,
an influence incna&ing them, and a thousand other eirtumftanceSj
will give a tupexiority to those who are thus fltuated. If it were
pofliMe to proraulge our laws by some indantaneous operation, it
would be of little consequence iq that point of view where the go
vernment wat. But if on the contrary, tittle is neteflTary for this
purpose, we ought as far as possible, to give every part of the com
munity an opportunity of obtaining a traowlcge of the fubje£>.
If we conliaer the influence of the government in its executive
department, thfcre is no less reaTon to conclude that it ought to be
plated in the center of the Union. It ought to be in a situation to
command information, relative part of the Union, in everv
conjuncture, to seize every circumdance which can be improvea,
-id which ought to be attended to. Ode of the most important
confederations which is pretented by this part of the fuhjett, is the
niteflky of having the executive eye placed in a situation where it
can fee the dangers which may threaten, and the executive arm
placcd also from whence it may be extended, most effe£taally, to
the protection of every part. Perhaps it is peculiarly neeeflary,
that in looking for the centre, we (hould keep our eye as much as
poflib>e to our western borders. For a long time, dangers will
be molt apt to spring from that quartet.
In to the Judiciary, if it is not equally tiefceffary, it is yet
highly important, that the government (hould be equally aceeifible
to every part of those who are to be governed. Why should the
citiaeto* of one quarter of the Union be fubjett to greater difficul
ties tlan others ? Why ftiotrld they be obliged to travel a greater
distance thain others-»-to carry their witnefles, and be fubjeft to all
the im onveniencies attending the administration of justice at a re
rrrote distance 7 tn (hort, whether we consider the fubjeft with re
gard to the executive, the legiflative f and judicial departments, we
ferthe founded reasons tor fixing on that place, whtch may be the
most permanent center of territory and population in refpeft to
the Western Territory* For it would be an affront to the tinder
fraftding of our feltow-ciligens on tlje Western Waters, to efcpefi
th&t they will be united with their Atlantic brethren, on any
other principle than that of equality and justice.
I venture to fay that it is necessary in order prrferve the
tlniou, that we (hould «Ual out the bloffings of government with
an impartial hand, and that in placing the government from which
these Meflmgs are to flow,, we Ihoula retire from the Atlantic, as
far as is convenient, and approach that point *rhich will most ac
cotfunodate the western country; and in doing this we (hall still
stop (hort of that geographical centre, whose circle would embrace
out ultramontane citizens thetnfelves. In my opinion, the favor
requested by Atc western inhabitants is as reasonable as poflible,
wtwn Phey declere that they wrH be fathffied, if we go so far only
as tojlpave open a proper and eatfy communication with the Atlan
tic ; tho they still be fuhje&ed to great inconveniencies.
From the Atlantic to the Miilifippi according to thebedeftimate,
Ihfe 'distance is not less than seven hundred and fifty miles. If we
go to Chat pint of the Patowmac which is piOpofed, it will carry
the -government mirles weft—we still have 500 from the Mif
(ifrppi. lam fme that if justice requires that we should take any
one position in preference to another, we have every inducement
of interest as well as generosity to fix 011 the Patowmac. It is im
portable to reflett a moment on the separation of that branch of the
Unkm, wkhont feerng the mifchiefs which that event must create.
The area of the United States, when divided into equal parts, will
-perhaps leave one half on die weft fide of the Allegany mountains.
From the fertility of foil, and the finenefs of clirnate, and every
thing that can favor a growing population, we may suppose that
the frt-tlemcnt will go on with every degree of rapidity which our
imagination, can conceive. If the ratio of calculation is consider
ed, that we double in twenty five years, we (hall contemplate in
thatfirneanadonilhing inafs of people on the western waters. —
Whether this great mass fhalHorm a part of the united members,
or whether itfhall' be fcperated into an alien* a jealous, and a hostile
people,,mn(t depend on the meafuies that are shortly to be taken.
Sir, the difference between confidcruvg them in the light of fellow
iti2ens, bound to us by a common interest, obeying common
laws, and pursuing common good, and considering them in the
\_PitbliJhed en Wednesday and Saturday .]
light I have mentioned, presents one of the greatest ideas that can
fill an American mind. Instead of peace and friendfhip, we shall
have rivallhip and enmity: Instead of being a great peopie, invul
nerable on all (ides, and without the necemty of those eftablilh
ments which other nations require, we ftiall have to support e*-
pensive and dangerous eftablilhments neceflary for defence. We
lhall be obliged to lay burthens on thte people to support them,
and which, sooner or later will be fatal to the liberties of Ameri
ca. It is incumbeilt on if we wish to ast the part of enlighten
ed legislator A. oc magnanimous citizens, t6 confidei* well when We
are about to Cake a step, that the step be directed by the motives I
have deferibed. We must confided What.il just, what is equal*
what is fa,tisfa&ory.
It may be a{ked why it was neceflary to bring into view these
principles, since they would not be denied. Sir, I apprehend
that in general we shall not disagree as to the principle. But at
the fame time principles are so connetted with fa&s, that it is ne
cefTary we (hould collect all the light, and examine all the circum
stances which may lead us to a juftdecifion. On a candid view of
the two rivers, I flatter myfelf that the feat which will most cor
respond with the public uttered, will be found on the banks of
the Patowmac.
It is proper that we have Tome regard to extent of territory.
If that is to have weight, give me leave to fay that there isno com
parison between the two rivers. I defy any gentlemen to cast
his eye in the most cursory manner over the most perfect map,
and fay the Patowmac is not much nearer this center than any
part of the Sufquehanna. Sir, if we measure from the bank? of
the Patowmac to the most eastern part of the United States', it is
less distant than from the most southern. If we meafurethis great
area diagonally, the Patowmac will still be nearer. If you draw
a line perpendicular to the line of the Atlantic c'oaft, you will ftnd
that it will run more equally through the Patowmac, than any other
part of the Union ; or if there be arty difference between orte fide
and the others there will be a greater space on the south-west
than on the north-east. All the maps of the United States shew
the truth of this. From the Ahmtic coast to that line which sepa
rates the BritisH poffefFions from the United States, the average
distance is not more than 150 miles. If you take the average
breadth of the other branch of the United States, it will
to be fxx, seven, and eight hundred miles. From thiiview of the
fubieft, which it is not ealy to describe by words, I am sure that
if the Patowmac is not the geographical center, it is because the
Sufquehanna is le£s so.
1 acknowlege that sortie regard is 60 be paid to the center of
population. But where(hall we find this center ? 1 know of n6
rule by which we may be governed, except by confldering the
proportion among the Representatives of the different States. 1
believe, if we take that criterioa, the prcfent center of population
will be found somewhere in Penafylvania, and not far from the
Sufquehanua. I acknowlege that the prefeitt center of population
is nearer the Sufquehanna than the Patowmac. But are we cheof
ing a feat of government for the present moment ? Are we to
confine our attention to the present state of population ? I prcfume
not* we must look forward to those probable changes that are fooh
to take place. I appeal to the judgement of ev«ry gentleman, if wo
have not reafonto fuppofethat those future changesin the population
of this country will bepirticularty favorable tofhat part which lies
south of the Patowmac. On what do the measure and extent of
population depend ? They depend on climate, on the foil and
the vacancy. We find that population like money seeks those
places where it can ast with most freedom, and has alwavs a ten
dency to equalize itfelf; We fee the people moving from the
more ciouded to the iefs crouded parts. We fee emigration
place from the parts that are filled. "The swarms do not conje
from the southern, but from the northern and eastern hive. This
will continue to operate till every part of America receives its due
share of population. If there beany event oh which we may cal
culate with tolerable certainty, I take it thac the center of popu
lation will continually advance in a south-western dire&ion. It
must then travel from the Sufquehanna, if it is now found there.
It may go beyond the Patowmac. But the time will be long firft;
and if it (hould, the Patowmac is the great highway of commun
ication between the Atlantic and the Wefterti Country,
which wiU justly prevent any attempts to remove the feat further
south. I have laid, Sir, that the communication to the Western
Territory is more commodious through the Patowmac than the
Sufquehanna: I wish all the fa£lt conne6ted with this fubje£fc
could have been more fully afceitained, and more fully stated. But
if we coafider the faSs which have been offered by gentlemen who
spoke, we must conclude that the communication through tlje
Patowmac would be much more facile and effectual than any
other,
Mr. Madison thenftated the different stages ofdiftanceonthe
two rivers, from which he concluded that the probable distance from
the place of fixing the government on the Patowmacto Fort Pitt, Ijy
land, was 170 or l sco miles* and from that part of the Sufquehanna
which was contemplated, 250, if the courle of the PatoWmac was
followed, not more than 250, but oa the course of the Sufque
hanna, about goo.
Whether, therefore, said he* we measure the distance by land
or water, it is in favor of the Patowmac; and if We confidtr the
progress in optning this great channel, I am confident the cort
fideration would be equally favoTable* It has been determined
by accurate refcarch, that the waters running into the Ohio, may
be found not more than two or three miles diflant from those jof
the Patowmac. This is a fad of peculiar important
It has been said that if Congress (hould make choice of the Pa
towmac, greater discontents would arise, than if they prefered
the Sufquehanna, I know not the data froni which this opinion
is drawn. Who will have the best right to complain ? Will it
be those who may be gratified if the government (hould be fixed
on the Sufquehanna ? I believe not. "the truth k, that if the
place (hort of the present geographical center is (hortofthe center
of population, as it may exist in a reasonable time, we have rea
son to believe that the southern inhabitants will conceivethem
felves most aggrieved. 1 think I may with truth declare, if the
feat of government (hould be fixed on the Sufquehanna, every part
south of that river, and every part of the United States south of
the Ohio, will conceive that the great principles of equal justice,
have been disregarded. If we are to consider the fubjeft in that
point of View, I am sure it is most expedient that we should give
the preference to Patowmac. This is not all—lf you eftablilh it
on the Patowmac, those who think themselves not equally dealt
by, will find the cause of their discontent continually subsiding;
because the center of population will be continually approaching to
the geographical center. If on the other hand, you fix the feat in a
place which is perpetually eccentric with refpettto territory, the
centerof population will forever recede.
The gentleman from Massachusetts, yesterday raised great ob»
je&ions against the Patowmac, because it was, he fuppoied, fuffck
je£t to periodical maladies from which the other river is free. I
am not authorised from personal experience, or very particular
information to draw a comparison between them : there are
some general fatts that may serve to shew that if there is any dif
ference, it is more likely to be in favor of the Patowmac than the
Sufquehanna. The position contemplated on the banks of the
former is considerably farther from tide water than the place propoled on the latter. On this account therefore have little
reason to expect that the Patowmac is more unhealthy. If we
conlider their comparatiVe fuuation with refpett to the weft, the
Patowm-c is almost ?s much farther weft, arit is distant from the
oulquehanna—nnd we well know that generally speaking as we
retire towards the western and high country, we are generally re
moved from the caiifes of those diseases to which lower situations
a /" e ej JP°j* ed - Asalfothetwo places are nearly in the fame latitude,
the ojjectiou which holds with refpe&to southern climes cannot
apply to one more than the other. It is only their western or eaft
crn position, their remove from or proximity to the lower coun
try, and to frefh or stagnant water which can properly be brought
into view. It is not because we advance so much to the south that
we advance to the centrc, it is because we go more to the weft.
I do not know that there isa different of more than a degree and
five or fix minutes between the latitudeof New-York and the pro
posed place on the Patowmac. The advantage the Patowmac
lias from its centrality, is derived more from its western than
itsfoiithern position.
1 will not at present go farther in this argument, and flatter
mylelt that the considerations which have been suggested will
have their proper weight, and if they (hould becontradiaed, that
we (hall he able further to support them. [Daily AJv ]
Mr. Ames after some introductory observations, remarked that
a certral fuuation is to be taken. He offered many reasons to shew
that the centre of a fca coast line is to be regarded—ln substance
they were because, it is more conveniently acce/fiHe, has more
wealth and more people than an equal area of inland country. Be
ing wore liable to inuajion, government (hould be near to protest it.
It is the interr/l ol the back country to have the government near the
lea, to mfpeft and encourage trade ; by which their abundant pro
duce will find an export.—And lastly, he said the contingency of
thejeparation of the western country was a reason for preferin- the
lea coast. °
He proceeded next to fay There will not be any contest
where this centre of the sea coast line is to be found. It falls be
tween the rivers Patowmac and Sufquehanna. It will be found that
there are good reasons why we should rather moveeaft than south
If the sea coast line is to be prefered, it will follow, that the
back lands weftof which the gentleman from Virginia
has lo often taken into his calculations, will be excluded Thev
are not peopled. They do not affect the sea coast line. And that
line has already been voted to be the proper one by the committee
•As it is true that the sea coast has more wealth and people than the
inlandl country in propoition to the extent, it is equally true that
the eaftcrn half of the sea coast has more of both than thefouthern
11 we reckon Maryland, which will be as well accommodated
by the Sufquehanna as by the Patowmac, we lhallfind the popu
lation of the eastern part nearly two millions and that of the
louthcrn only one million. And the population of free inhabi
tants itill less in favor of the latter.
But, Sir infteadof seeking a centre geographically, we (hould
conlider the centre of common convenience. That place is the
proper one, where the greatest number of persons will be belt ac
commodated. I will endeavor to lhew,that that will be on the
Sufquehanna. Is the zeal of gentlemen who oppose this design
influenced by their despair of removing the feat of government af
terwards ? I believe the people of America will iiot complain of
i • It fixed there, I think it will be found convenient and will
remain there.
Hie Sufquehanna is the centre of common convenience. At
this moment, there ismore wealth and more inhabitants east than
Jouth of it. But the future population of America is calculated,
and it is pretended that the balance of population isreceding from
the eall. Surely, the present inhabitants may be allowed princi
pally to consult their own convenience. Weftofthe Ohiois an
almost immeafureable wildemefs. When it will be fettled.or how
it will be pofiible to govern it, is past calculation. Gentlemen
■will pardon me, if I think it perfectly romantic to make this de
c on depend upon that circumstance. Probably it will be near
a century before those people will be considerable. If we fix the
national feat in the proper place now, it would give me no inquie
tude to know that an hundred years hence it may be liable to be
removed. But in fafl, the principle which is aflumed by the
committee, and which I have attempted to juftify, of takinn- the
centre of the sea coast line, will even in the event of that vast tract
being fettled, furnilh abundant reason for its remaining on the
oulquehanna. I will not recapitulate those reasons. We mull
take some principle to guide u. : And though some inequalities
will appear, yet let gentlemen remember, that in so vast a coun
try, great inconveniences will attend the communications of the
people with the government, be the feat of it where it may • And
by taking the centre of the sea cost line they will be less than up
on any_other principle. It will be found beftto accommodate the
greatest number : Or in other words to be the centre of common
convenience. Indeed this is not denied to be true at this moment.
But the cafe is said to be changing. On the one hand, I think it
is Utopian to calculate upon the population of the United States a
century hence : And on the other, I admit that it is impolitic at
lean, perhaps unjust, to confine our attention to the present popu
lation : A quarter of a century may be a medium. Will gentle
men deny that tradeand manufaflures will accumulate people in
trie eastern States in the proportion of 5 to 3 compared with the
iouthern ? Thedifproportion will doubtlefscontinue to be much
greater than I have calculated. It is actually greater at present.
', c ' ,ma te and negro slavery are acknowleged to be unfa
vorable to population. So that hulbandry as well as commerce
and manufaaures will give more people in the eaftcrn than the
southern State-. The very circumstance that gentlemen found
tncir reasonings upon is pretty strongly against their calculation.
ine> tell us olthevaft quantities ofgood land ftillunfettledm their
itates. That will produce a thin population. For the old lands
will not be crouded so longas new lands are to be had.
, n j ' h r crtfore ' as we may be allowed to look forward, the
eastern half from this central feat will be far more populous than
the ether. In New-England the fettfed parts are laid to contain
aoout 45 to a square mile.
Much is said of the reparation of the western territory
At a remote period, the jnnaion of the Britith colonies with the
Union might be taken into view.
The feat of government on the Sufquehanna will be nearly ac
°y water to all the people near the sea coast. By Dela
ware river on one fide and Chefapt ak Bay on the other.
Let us next consider the inland navigation of this river. Pittf
burg on the Ohio may be considered as the key of those waters •
at least to the northward. It is a kind of common centre. Let
, "s lee how we {hall approach it by the Sufquehanna.
From Havre de Grace, at the mouth of Sufquehanna, )
and at the head of the Chefapeak to Wright's ferry is C 4° miles
(And here the federal town propably will be.)
To Harris' ferry, - . -20
To the month of Juniata river, t
l'p Juniata river to the Standing Stone,
Portageto Conimac, Old town, _
Down the Kilkiminetas river to the Allegany river 60
Down that river to Pitfburg, _ - ' 30
And from the supposed feat of government at Wright's ) '' °
ferry only - _ ° > 230
Let us compare this route to Pittlburg.with that by thePatowmac.
From the tide water on Patowmac to Fort )
Cumberland, > 200 miles
Portage to the three forks of Turkey Foot, . ,o
Water carriage, and portage one mile, at the falls of >
Yohiogany, - - _ > 9
Down the Yohiogany to the Ohio, .
I'p to Pufburg, .
3°4
I have rcafon to confide in tliefe calculations.
The latter is said to be made by a distinguished
person whose authority no man will difpure. If
it is true, or any thing near true, it will destroy
the whole argument in favor of the Patowmac.
I have consulted the bell informed persons out of
the House, and believe the statement to be true,
as it respects both rivers. If it is, the pondrous
edifice which the gentleman from Virginia has
erected with so much labor crumbles to powder.
For it will appear, that it is more than 70 miles
nearer by the Sufquehanna and Juniata to Pitfburtr
than by way of the Patowmac. Neither should
we forget that from the tidewater onthe Patow
mac to Chefapeak is near 200 miles. Of course,
the access by water is less convenient and direct!
The eastern branch of the Sufquehanna is na.
vigable to the head, at lake Otfego. A detach
ment of Gen. Sullivan's troops came in boats
from that lake quite down the river. This river
flretches it's long arms and embraces a vast
country, comprehending not less than twenty
millions of acres.
Let us next consider the connection through
this water with the lakes. Its branches approach
the Allegany river very near, and by a portage
of only three miles communicate with the waters
of Lake Erie.
Reckoning from Fort Pitt, Lake Erie and its
waters, and the several branches of the Sufque
hanna,it will be found that more than fifty thous
and square miles are accommodated with water
carriage. Perhaps, out of America, there is
not such ancther instance in the world. Yet
this is not all. The water communication by
the Patowmac is fubfervienc to the argument for
the Sufquehanna. For if the western country
is (o wonderfully accommodated by its waters
that it is an high-way, then it is only 60 miles
travel, a mere portage, to Wright's ferry.
They will be on a footing wich those who come
by sea, and they will have still greater advantages
over many of those who travel by land.
However, Mr. Jefferfon's account of the Pa
towmac does notcorrefpond with the praises now
bellowed upon it. He fays the fallsare fifteen miles
long, and speaks very unfavorably of the interior
navigation. In the i'ummer it's waters are very
fubje<ft to fail. My informants prefer the waters
of the Sufquehanna. Admiting, however, that
the Patowmac is as commodious as the other' still
there are weighty reasons in favor of it's rival.
The advantage to the neighboring country in
point of trade, resulting from the federal town
is very unefl'ential in a national view. The peo
ple on the Patowmac will not be injured in the
conveyance or sale of their produce by having
it fixed on the Sufquehanna. For the influence
of the federal town in this refpeit will not ex
tend far. And as to the convenient access to the
government: It will make only sixty miles differ
ence which surely is not an obje<ft. But the
great national point is, to fix the feat of govern
ment in that place, where it will best secure the
Union.
The Patowmac is in some degree exposed to two
dangers : By sea, and from the mountains : Large
vellels can go to Georgetown. The events of the
late war have proved that there is a foundation
for this apprehension. The western country is
to be viewed under different circumstances. From
Lake Erie, byPitfburg, to the head of the Chefa
peak, the people are naturally connected with us.
They must fend their produce through the States
But lower down the Ohio, and on the MifTifmpi'
the people have their export by the latter river.
It the latter should separate from the Union, they
will not be willing to leave thefouthern states in
the Union. The separation will not take place
by the mountains, which are far from being im
paflable. The capital, if imprudently placed so
far foutliweft will furnifli a temptation to this
cuvilion, and strength and resources to maintain
it. I will not dilate on this idea, tho I think it an
importantone. The more it is weighed,the more
hazardous and preposterous it will place
the capital in a situation, where gentlemen's own
arguments admit, when they speak of the contin
gency of losing the western country, that we may
need all our strength, and yet, where we should
be able to command buta small part of it.
Contrail this with the Sufquehanna. Thecoun
try is perfectly fafe from both dangers of inva
lion by lea and from the mountains. If a division
lould happen, the feat of government will fall
° n t u C n ng ,de of " the dividing line—and so
much strength on the frontier of that line will
prevent a division. For the country from Lake
trip to ort Pitt, and from thence to Lake Cham
plain, vaftm its extent, its foil fruitful, itsclimate
favorable to the production of an hardy race of
men, and to sustain a vast multitude of them-Hrhis
yaft country will be benefited in some decree, and
in a greater attached to the Union by fitino- the
feat of government in this place. Besides nature
has united them by indiflbluble ties to the States
—unless a feeble government should engender
the anarchy of many separate fovereigntie S g ft is
a pleasing refledhon to trace the effect of the
strength of this part of the western territory to
wards fecurmg the remaining western in
the Union. In every event, the country, eall of
a line drawn from Lake Erie to the ri -
will be fafe from the force of any
America—will that other part be faf P r P of
eastern part ? Tho national iuiHceand rK -, his
policy iliould direct our counsels vet a J
men will find a motive and a pretex'f or f„ Ui
ing a division. Butthofe near the line Tf
ealtern half will be unwilling to be a f •
Those farther south will be eqfally f 0 ' j , er '
terrier in cafe „f a »• «
pole to their northern neighbors ? The moYrl P '
furnifh none, and both parties live beyond them
The great rivers will expose them to hofti !'
roads, as they will afford a convenient pa(lk 2e t
troops. In fact, the weftem people will s ecure
the western people. If the separation fhoU
notwithstanding take place, it would not be
cause nature directs it. We should have the co '
folation of reflecting that we have provided !
best means of preventing its happening at all, and
from it, after it has happened, the belt security
against the effects which will result. 1
I will not pretend to fay that any one of these
arguments is conclusive—nor do I flatter myfelf
that they will immediately produce conviction
I place dependence 011 the moderation and good
lenfe of gentlemen who poflefs public spirit and
private honor. I rely upon the calm review which
they will make of my observations a week hence
when the fervor of this debate has fubfkled. '
I appeal to their candor at that time to decide
whether in point of centrality, accelfibility, pro .
tetftion to the Union, salubrity, and fafety from
insurrection and invasion, there is not solid reafou
for eftablilhing the feat of government on the
Sufquehanna. I will not fay that the Patowmac
is mlalubrious. tfut it is well known that north
ern constitutions are impaired by removing to a
more southern latitude. The air may be health
ful—but the change is found to be pernicious to
them. Whether there is any foundation for it,
or not, the eastern people would dread the experi'
ment.
1 he preservation of the Union is the wortfiieft
objeJl ofa patriot's wiffies. The world has doubt
ed our success. I feel a consolation in the opin
ion that the measure I am. contending for will best
contribute to that end. An American legislature
may seek true glory by such measures as will tend
to secure the Union, to preserve peace, and todif
fufe the blessings of science, liberty, and good
government over agreater extent of country, and
in an higher degree, than the world ever enjoy
ed them. Surely this will interest the pride of
every honest heart. It is the philosophy of am
bition—it is the religion of politics.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12.
A meflage was received from the Senate by Mr.
Secretary Otis with the bill for eftablilhing the
compensations of the Members of the two Houses
and their respective officers, concurring in the
amendment of the House, to the amendment of
the Senate.
In committe of the whole on the bill for eftab
lilhing judicial courts.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
The committee proceeded in the difcuffionas
far as the 28th feition, when they role and re
ported progress ; and the House adjourned.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14.
The committee appointed to examine the en
rolled bills, reported that the bill for eftablilh
ing the compensations of the Members of both
Houses and their respective officers, having been
examined was found correct: The Speaker then
affixed his signature to the fame.
A memorial from the Baron de STUBtNwas
read and laid on the table.
The memorial of the weighers and gaugersof
the city ofNew-York, praying that their fees
may be enhanced, was read a second time.
A meflage was received from the Senate with
the bill for suspending the operation of a claule
in the collection law, in which they have con
curred, with amendments. Also the bill forfuf
pending the operation of a clause in the tonnage
act, non-concurred.
The amendments proposed by the Senate to
the resolution of the House providing for amend
ments to the Constitution, were read, andon mo
tion it was voted that a number of copies be
struck off for the use of the Members.
I he amendments to the bill for suspending the
clause in thecolleition law, were then read, an
acceded to on the part of the House. , . *
These amendments provide for the relief o
Rhode-Island and North-Carolina, in lieu of t e
provision intended by the suspension of patt°
tonnage act.
The House then went into a committee of t e
whole onthe judicial bill.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) proposed the
amendment to the 29th section, which re /^ e r
juries, viz. That all juries which lhall be u
moned to serve in the courts of the 1 r
States, shall be formed according to the * a%vS
each State respectively. This amendment >v
adopted. . . r e
Mr.BußKr moved to insert the following o a .
in the fame feiftion, viz. In cases of f<?t° n ) 'treason, tli<? offender fliall l>e indidcd and tried
n the county, town or diftridl wherein the of
fence lhall have been commited, as hath been
usual in each State before this law was enacted,
-phis was carried in the affirmative. The com
mittee this day finiflieil the difcuflion of this bill,
which was reported to the House.
Mr. Ames of the committee appointed to bring
j n a bill upon the fubjetfl of the permanent re
sidence pursuant to the resolution palled by the
House, brought in a report which was read the
fj r ft time. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, SEPT. I J.
The bill for eftablilhing the permanent resi
dence was read the second time, and refered to
a committee of the whole, to be taken up on
Thursday next.
The enrolled bill for suspending a part of the
collection law, was brought in and signed by the
Speaker.
A petition from the inhabitants of the town of
Portfniouth, in Virginia, representing the hard
ships they fuffer from not having a naval office
eftabliftied in that place, and praying that an of
ficer may beeftablilhed there, was read, and laid
on the table.
The House then took up the amendments to the
Judicial bill, agreed to by the committee of the
whole.
Mr. Seney moved, as an amendment in the 3d
section, to insert Cheltertown, instead of Eallon,
in Maryland, as the place for holding the diftri<fi
courts : This, after some debate, was negatived.
Mr. Seney calling for the ayes and noes, there
were 23 noes—2o ayes.
A meflage was received from the Senate,by Mr.
Secretary Oti s, informing that they had pafled
a bill for the eftablilhment of the Poll Office, and
desired the concurrence of the House.
The House proceeded in considering the amend
ments to the Judiciary Bill, but adjourned with
out compleating the business.
RE—CONSIDERATION.
CASH, or no Cash, that \*as the question,
Which found such plaguy tough digestion ;
'twas this that fav'd from reprobation,
That (talking horse discrimination;
A question too, where the minority,
Were heart and foul with the majority :
For had their*s prov'd the major vote,
It would have stuck so in their throat,
That, maugre all discrimination,
They'd mov'd a re-consideration.
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER 16.
It is a familiar rule in politics that a man, em
ployed in the affairs of government, ought to be
paid up to the trust reposed in him—for the less
temptation is there in this cafe to illicit gain out
of the employment itfelf, and left excuse for the
negligent or unikilful conducfl of it. But the
rule, tho alike applicable to all orders of public
offices, has been in the State governments, in a
great degree, over looked as to the legislative—
and while the executive or judicial laborer has
been thought worthy of his hire, the legislative
has been generally left to little more than the bare
honor of the service. I would presume to doubt
however, whether this retribution alone can be
fufficient, for tho perhaps there is no situation in
which the mind feels more felf complacency than
that of a man chosen to make laws for his coun
try, a diftinsftion, implying at once both talents
and integrity, yet this sensation is scarce more
than a transient inflation of vanity in the firft
moments of the choice—for when seriously enga
ged in the business, there is nothing so firm, or
abiding in that passion as to- bear any one up a
gainst the pains and uneasiness inseparable from
the situation—the fatigues of attention—the irk
fomnefs of deputation—the chagrin of disappoint
ed measures—are a sketch of the fufferings with
in doors ; —without, your judgments are constant
ly re-judged, and a<flions, meant to be founded
on principles of common good, brought to the
touch-stone of partial interest or local politics—
and accordingly it is commonly found that no
Ipecies of ambition whatever is, after a short tri
al, less gratified in the pofleflion.
Itlhould seem that the diftindtion of rewar I in
this cafe is without just ground—indeed, if any
difference should be made, it rather to be
in favor of the legislative, it being doubtless a
higher trust to make, than to execute laws—and
the defect of ability or honesty in the one, a more
sensible injury than in the other. Without ex
amining, however, into the motives of diftiniftion
in the State governments, a few observations will
stew that other maxims ought to prevail in that
of the United States.
Those who are to compose the legislature of
this government will be brought from every quar
ter of the Union : It will not be with them as in
me of the States, the business of a day to come
an d to go ; but often from circumstances of dis
tance, or hardship, the serious undertaking of a
yoyage—for let government be adminiftred where
u may, in a region offuchvart extent, many pil
grimages of near a thousand miles to its feat, rauft
annually be performed : It will not be to any of
these men, as in the States, the brief suspension
/ i- - • 7 -»
oi the cares of private concerns, or profeflional
duties, to be resumed without prejudice ; but fre.
quently such a continued negledt or dereli>fiion
of them as to induce great loss or inconvenience.
It may in truth be (aid that men maybe found,
who have no persona] affairs to fuffer by dedicat
ing themselves to the public ; but he who is with
out trusts or duties of his own is seldom fit for the
trusts or duties of his country. Such for inltance
might be many a bankrupt adventurer, in law,
physic, divinity, or merchandize, who having
neither fortune nor dependence at home, any
trifle abroad would be clear gain to. The veflel
of the republic might be conducted cheaply by
such a crew, but would it be polfible for her to
escape fnipwreck ?
_ The rich—they surely might make an absolute
gift of their services—but it is not always by the
exercise of generous qualities that they become
so : The rich besides are with more difficulty
drawn from the fatisfacftions of home, and if wife,
not easily induced to quit the preheminence in
society confered by wealth, for the equality of deli
berative aflemblies, and where men are accustom
ed to be valued by other standards : The rich too
are often unpopular, and seen with an eye jea
lous of aristocratic opulence : It is not for the in
digent, or the wealthy then that provision should
be made, but for those who are poflefled of some
thing, and yet not fomuch as to (land juftified in
making unrequited facrifices of their time 01
fortune.
Leaving them both—where are all the patriots
of the late time, who gave themselves to the pub
lic cause without reward ? Their enthusiasm is
gone, and will not appear again, but with a re
newed occalion—the danger of our country. In
days of ease and security, men are willing to put
a value upon their exertions, andexped: compen
sations for services of every kind.
The principle being agreed to with refped: tt
the Federal Legislature, it isneverthelefs a mattei
of opinion what the compensations should be :—
We have seen the opinion of Congress in the com
pensations established, which may appear reason
able from these confederations : The legislative
business of the Union may require a felfion alto
gether unremited, or one of a few months in the
year : If the former, is it to be expe<fted that a
member, if he has a family, will not bring it with
him to the feat of the government, where he is
so much to reside ? ana who in this cafe should
bear the extraordinary charge ? will the whole
allowance as fetled by Congress more than give
a moderate support to a family ? Will any thing
over run to balance the disadvantages of distant
affairs abandoned to themselves, or left to agen
cy : If the latter, the family may remain at home—
but what will be the favingsat the end of the term
in that cafe—will they be as much, after assisting
in important national councils, as what any com
mon quibbler in the law gleans quarterly from
plaintiff and defendant, at county sessions or as
sizes.
Should the legislative term be of such short du
ration, as those most competent to judge think the
most probable—then, upon a comparative view,
combined of the circumltances of pay and time,
will the present government, so likely to be pro
ductive of the perfed: fruits of peace, liberty,
and happiness, be administered at a cheaper rate
than the old one, which answering the sudden
purpose ofits institution, ever aftqr, though per
petually fitting, hatched nothing but abortions.
Discontents have already been excited on this
fubjed : They have proceeded from mistake,
from faction, or from meanness : It is only the
well meaning who will hear reason when it is ex
posed to him : As to the incendiary he wishes not
to be convinced in any thing against his desperate
purpofes,and the niggard, grudging the expence
of good government, will freely let his country
take her chance of ruin or salvation, provided he
is fuffered to keep his penny in his pocket.
The time fixed on forthe adjournment of Con
gress draws near—and we doubt not that the re
cess will be attended with the most salutary ef
feds. Six months close application to public bu
siness requires a season of relaxation : The people
in remote parts of the Union, mull wish to fee,
and converse with their delegates : The members
will have a more competent opportunity to form
a judgment ps the laws they have enacted—their
tendency and operation—where they may be a
mended so as more fully to adapt them to the
circumltances of their conftitucnts—and, when
again aflembled, the knowlcgethey will have ac
quired in the recess, will be found of the most
beneficial and important nature.
The late appointments in the Treasury Depart
ment appear to have been predicated on differ
ent principles from those in the revenue.
The reasons for this deviation are doubtless
founded in propriety, as the nominations have
been fandioned by the Senate —and we have no
reason to suppose that any motives which would
be inconsistent with the public interest, could bias
their independency : The future arrangements in
tlieTreafury Department will in all probability
be so different from what that department has
been under, that it is supposed the objed is to fe
leiftthofe abilities which will give the m oft prompt
and adequate operation to the New System : The
result will determine how far a just judgment
been formed—certain it is, that the public anti
cipations are great, from the appointment of the
gentleman at the head of the department.
The conciliatory temper difcoveredby the Fe
deral Legislature in their attention to the embar
rafled situation of the trade of Rhode-Island and
North-Carolina, and granting those States that
relief which their memorials stated to be neces
sary to their interest and accommodation, muit
make the most favorable impreffionson theminuj
of the citizens of those States—they mull be struck
with the enlarged, liberal, and generous policy,
which governs the Congress of the United States.
Paragraph tranflatedfrom the Courier D£ boston.
The King of Prussia lately ordered that there
be publiflied a gazette every three months, to be
distributed gratis among the peasants ofSilefia.
His Majesty has farther enjoined that the school
mafterof every diftri<ft shall read and explain the
contents of this paper, to those of his neighbors
who are not able to read. This gazette is to give
an account of the progress of agriculture, in all
his dominions ; of the prefcriptiins for curing
divers maladies incident to mankind, to cattle,
sheep, dogs, &c. and other matters which may
tend to promote the public good. Glorious,
ENLIGHTENED POLICY !
Accounts from Madeira state that the Algerines
are at their old Game, having captured several
French vefl'els.
We hear that a duel was fought at Boston by two Officers of
the Frcnch fleet, on the 9th instant—in which one of them was
slightly wounded—thecaufeis not mentioned.
ADDITIONAL APPOINTMENTS SINCE OUR LAST.
The President otthe United States has been
pleased to nominate, and by and with the advice
andconfentof the Senate to appoint
Gen. Henry Knox, Secretary at War —
Oliver Woicott, jun. Esq. Auditor of the
Treasury—•
JosephNo Urs E, Esq. Register of the Treasury.
Mr. Peter Kemp, Surveyor of Rappahannock
diftridt, Virginia, vice Staig Davis, religned—
Mr. Charles Chilton, Surveyor of Town
Creek, Patuxent diftriA, Maryland, vice Robert
Young, religned.
The Hon. Secretary of the Treasury has ap
pointed William Duer, Esq. Assistant-Secretary.
ICT* Te/ferday arrived the Britijh Packet Hal
ifax, Boulderson Commander, in 63 days
from Falmouth, and 10 from Halifax. —She will fail
again on Thursday, the instant.—The Mail
■will he closed at the Poft-Office, at nine o'clock the
preceding evening.
New-York, Sept. 16, 1789.
[c~~T " Extract of a letter," the contents of which comprize this en
quiry, " why the pay of the Speaker should be double to that of a
common member,*' is omitted Jot leant ojroom.
AS the recess of Congress is approaching, and cmfequenth
we fha/l not have it in our pouter to entertain the readers of this paper
with a detail of legislative proceedings, it ma\ not be improper to intimate
that the Gazette of the United States will be continued as nearly as
pojjible upon its original plan, and the residue of those alls, which from
their length have not yet appeared, will t>e pubhfhed: The governmental
tranfadions of the Supreme Executive, will receive an early and regular
insertion, which from their interejling nature, will form a valuable fub
flitutefor the temporary suspension oj congrejjionalproceedings.
THE EDITOR.
ARRIVALS. NEW.YORK.
Monday Sloop Friendlbip, Burnham, Savanna, 12 days.
Brig Minerva, Kerr, Bremen, 63 days.
Brig Rachel, Hill, London, 50 days.
Schooner Pollv. Todd, St. Thomas's. 22 davs.
INTELLIGENCE BY YESTERDAY'S MAIL.
CONSTANTINOPLE, APRIL 22.
THE new system of our government begins to develope. His
Highness on account of the fticcefs of the grand Admiral in the
last war in Egypt, and his great reputation, has removed him from
the station of Admiral, and ordered him to put himfelf at the head
of a formidable army, and march immediatly to retake Oczakow.
Though this tranfa&ion may appear to some as a fort of disgrace,
we are far from thinking so ; and we are allured that last night
the Grand Signoir, to excite the ambition of the Captain Pacha,
and to inflame his love for glory, bestowed on him before hand
the pompoustitleof Conqueror of the grand Fortrcfs ; in consequence
of which the ex-grand admiral will ftiortly go to Befiarabia, and
put himfelf at the head of 100,000 men, with which army he will
besiege Oczakow. These dispositions, it is easy to forefee, excite
great jealousy between the Grand Vizier and the Captain Pacha,
which will not any aflift the enter prize against Oczakow, the
iuccefs of which the new Sultan has so much at heart, that he has
given the moll pressing orders to the vice-admiral to fail with the
31 and fleet to the Black Sea, to favor that important expedition.
However those motions announce nothing but disorder and con
fufion—the recruits are not chosen ones, the provision and am
munitions are fuflficient for the numher of troops which will be
employed, and the magazines are placed in such a manner, that it
will be difficult for the army before Oczakow to procure provi
sions, owing to the facility with which the light troops of the
Ruffians may intercept the convoys. This expedition at pre fen c
attratts all the attention of the court and of the capital.
PHILADELPHIA, SEPT. 12.
INSURRECTION IN FRANCE.
By the ship Young Eagle, Capt. Kerr, arrived
in this port the lalt evening in 5$ days from Sr.
Sebastian in Spain, we learn, that the great patriot
ancl friend to America, Lewis the 16th, had joined
with the Commons of France against the Nobles
—that a battle ensued in which 7000 were killed
on the spot—and that the Baftile was totally de
moliihed.RE-PUBLISHED BY PARTICULAR DESIRE.
From the DAILY ADVERTISER.
MESSRS PRINTERS,
Be pleased to puhhjh the inclosed letter from a gen
tleman fcnt by the Patowmac company, to examine
the state of the navigation of that river, and ascer
tain the mo ft practicable communication between it,
and the waters of the Ohio.
ALEXANDRIA, SEPT. 2, I 789.
" -AS your countrymen have committed to
your care a vdry important trust, any information
Which can throw the finalleft light upon their
iiHereft, I trust will be acceptable to you. Under
this imprelfion, I take the liberty of fending
you some observations which I made in an excur
lion up Patowmac river, and across the Allega
ny mountain, to some branches of the western
waters. By the desire of the Patowmac company,
Mr. Smith, (the cOndutflor of the Patowmac
works) and myfelf, proceeded from the Great
falls up the river in a boat, Which, if moderate
ly loaded, would have taken from thirty to for
ty barrels, till we got twelve miles ahove Fort
Cumberland, and could with conveniency have
continued our rout In the fame boat to the mouth
of the Ne\V Creek, which is thirteen miles high
er up the North Branch, than the place at which
we flopped ; but beirig ftrahgers to that part of
the river, and being informed by the inhabitants
tof the country, that the river was then lower
than it had been foi* some years past, we were
fearful that in cafe the dry weather should con
tinue during our progress over the mountain, the
river might be rendered so shallow as to prevent
our geting the boat down again ; —we therefore
proceeded from this place(Capt. Daniel Crefap's)
on foot along the fide of the tit'er to the mouth
erf Savage river. To this place the navigation
may be extended, and not much higher without
incuring too great an expence for the £refertt
times. The mouth of the Savage is two hund
red and ten miles from tide Water at the bottbm
of the Little Falls, where large vefl'els may coihe.
After pailing the Falls at the mouth of the Sha
nandoah river, We found no fall which would
prevent a boat pafling up or down with ease and
lafety, except in thole fcaforis when the river is
very low, then, in the broad parts the water is
shallow, and requires to be collected or deepen*
ed in those parts which does not appear to be
either difficult or expensive to accomplish. From
the mouth of Savage, we went along the State
road to the top of the Allegany mountain, rind
from F .nee to the waters of Deep creek (which
take .heir rife in the Green Glades) thirteen
miles from the motith of Savage, four miles be
low the place where the road crofles this water ;
it is large enough for boats, is gentle and deep,
and vvill afford a good navigation down to the
falls in the Yohogany (of which this creek is a
branch) called Ohiophyle Fall, near the ;
so that seventeen miles will join the Waters of
Patowmac and Yohogany. From the month of
Savage to Little Yohogany, one mile above the
forks, is twenty two miles, to Big Yohogany
twenty-four Salt Lick creek, a branch of
Cheat river, thirty miles, to Cheat river, at the
Ford at Dunkard Bottom, thirty-seven miles and
a quarter, to Morgan town fifty miles, to Clerkf
burg eighty miles, to the mouth of Mufkinguin
one hundred and forty miles. These distances,
except the last, are from actual measurement!
Cheat river at Dunkard Bottom, is nearly or
quite as large as Slianandoah at Snicker's or
Keyes' ferry, and is a fine gentle river, except
two falls which are now puffed frequently, and
may at a An all expence, be rendered Tafe and
easy. The course of the road from the mouth
of the Savage to Cheat river, is nearly due weft.
About the ni6nt-h of Savage rivtr and George's
creek, are inexhauftable beds of coal ; some of
which the river has laid bare—we found them
easy to dig, and the coal of good quality. This
range or bed of coal extends along the fii'ft ridge
of the Allegany mountain to Wills' creek, above
Cumberland ; from which place we saw them
carrying coal for the nail manufactory, at Hager's
town. Upon our return From the other fide of
the Allegany mountain, one or two days moder
ate lain had raised the river, and we found the
navigation in that state much better than we ex
pected. Two boats came doWn from Old toWn
with tobacco, two or three from Opeckon
with flour ; and we went in company with two
from Shepherd's town ; one of which was more
than seventy feet long, and when fully loaded,
would, cafry from 120 to i'ijo barrels of flour j
these boats went quite down to the G#eat Falls ;
and I was informed by Captain Sepherd, that one
thousand barrels of flour had been sent down the
l iver this spring from Shepherd's town only. If we
allow ten miles from the liead of the tide »b the Big
Falls, and feventten from the mouth of the Savage
so Deep creek—Patowmac has but twenty-seven
miles land carriage at this day to the
waters, and in two or three yeai-s at fartheft, ten
of these miles Will be taken ;iway. From Fort Cum
berland to the fettlemehtsonYohegany is twenty- :
one miles,to the Ohiophyle falls miles, bdtiw
which there a is good navigation to Pittfburg.
From Fort Cumberland to Fort Pitt orPittlburg,
is one hundred and fourteen miles. From Fort
Cumberland to Bedford is thirty miles, and a
good road. lam fully fatisfied there can be no
navigation found between the eastern and west
ern waters which approaches so near, which will
have so good andfhort a portage, and which can
be effected at so small an expence. I am acquaint
ed with the Sufquehanna, let there be an actual
survey made of that river and itsbranches, which
can be rendered navigable the fartheft towards
the western waters, as there has been of Patow
jmac, and I am certain that the difference in fa
! vor of Patowmac will be found grearer than any
iperfon can believe who has not examined them
both with an eye of observation. The follow
; ing branches of Patowtnac, when improved,
will afford a very extensive navigation, and
chiefly through a very fertile country. Monoca
| fy about thirty miles, Slianandoah one hundred
; and eighty miles, Conogocheaugue about twen
ty five miles, Cape Capon the fame diftamce or
perhaps farther, the South Branch from seventy
to eighty miles, and Patterfon's creek about
twenty miles ; the country through which these
waters flow, is remarked tor the riclmefs of the
land, and is in general thick fettled. After giv
ingyou this sketch of the Patowmac, itsbranches
and the Allegany mountains, permit me to men
tion to you that fine extensive valley lying up
on the south-east fide of what is called the iNorth
mountain, and which extends from the river
Sufquehanna to James river : I believe 1 may be
bold to fay that no quarter of America, or per
haps of the World, can produce a body of land
of such extent, equal to this in quality, and bleif
ed with so falitbrious an air ; the neceflaries of
life are here produced in the greatest abundance,
add to this that iron ore,with every convenience
for refining it is found here ih large quantities
and of excellent Quality,and coal difirovers rtfelf
in such quantities upon the margin of the river
(from whence Itthay with cafe be conveycd to a
ny part of the continent) as to pronounce it in
exhaustible. Sould the feat of our empire move
weftwardly, which found policy now requires,
and which it muftdo sooner or later from thein
creafing weight on that fide, there is a moil beau
j tiful and healthy situation for a large city at the
place where Fort Frederick stand;), upon the
north banks of PatoWmac. The State of Mary
land holds two hundr-ed adres of sand it this place,
and the State in this part ?s only five hiiles Wide,
that Maryland, Peiuilylvania and Virginia,
might each be gratifyed in contributing to the
formation of the federal city by fixing it at that
place. From the luxuriance of the foil all around,
from the many branches of the PatoWmac Which
penetrate the country in different directions to a
great distance, the moil abundant iupply of eve
ry kind of provision will at all times be com
manded, and by the river Patowmac every fo
reign article, whether ofluxury or convenience,
may be procured in the fame abundance and with
the fame ease as on the sea coafl. Within the
limits of your city might be a cannon foundary,
an ore bank, forge and other manufactures.
I rom the Great falls to George town ftxteen
miles, to Alexandria eighteen miles and an half.
Should you incline to approach nearer the tide
water, William's port, aiid Shepherd's town in the
the fame valley, and Frederick to\vn near Mono
cafy and below the Blue Ridge afford rnoft desir
able situations, I am, Sir, &c. &c. |
THE BACHELOR.
tran l u 'l hours, with all the fneets of pace,
oti, and ev'ry joy increase;
No ruffling cares disturb my loft repote,
My midnight ftumber no 6bftttrftldn kho-Ws—
My heart exolts, whtt fir-ft thertorriing fhiiles (
Ihe grev ey'd eve my fleeting time beguiles.
My servants wait, obedient at my hand,
And chearful execute the mild command :
Amctrig liiy neighbors, ge'fier'oUs fricrtdfMp rSigris,
Nor calumny another's honor stains.
I live m harmony, and fpc* frofn ftrife ;
For I'm not iltji, good Hcav'm! with a wife,
G I V I S.
ASECMTE of Mr. i)RME, the Hi'ftortan oj Iht lati War in India.
M thisgentlematr jirelided in the export warehouse of
Ro affed undcr him, Orte day at break
faft bethg aflctd by Mr. 6rme, ttf Mat father was ?
Davrdfon replied, a SadWr. And pray, (TaM did he
nj>t bring you up-a;Sadler ? I vbs always whihrfidaUfaiibavid
lo*i and rather chose to try myjortune, as you have done, in the
iatt Indra Company's fcrvice. But pray, S.r,(continued he) what
' a,hcr /MV *»ther, (an'twered the hittorian,
* , p ,' y) " as " P"' 1 ""™- And why, (Vetofted Davldfrti,
gentleman ? ICTty ' hluntneft) did he not bring you up a
ELEVENTH ACI OF THE LEGISLATURE OF THE UNION.
An ACT to establish the TREASI/RY DEPART
MENT.
BE ;t cmdtihythe SchaleandHoufeof Rtbrrfentatati,;< nf/h.r' , j
""" Hf Trea ur u Y' ,n iKallbahe following offices namely.
A«d ,V njmhcr evatlcd, That it Ihall he the duty of the Secretary
• ■" p"p«""i ,h e p„bt j
the public AperfdtfttlW ; toi (lip,'intend the colteftm„ r ,
revenue ;to decide on the foVms-Af kee*ivig ,„d ft,,"' f l!i «
and ntakulg, returns, and to gram under the limit.,£
etobhihed or to be hererfter provided, all warrants for
be issued from the Treasury, in pursuance ofappronri*. to
law ; to execute fQch fcrvlccs relative to the fait of the I.T l "
longing » the United States, as rtiay be by law iVqbirerTfu
to make report,and gitfe information txi en trier branchfefrt, t. '
latuir, in perbn or in writing <as he may be required) '
all matters referred to Hun by the Senate orHoufe of
lives, or whidh shall appertain to his office ; and frenerallv.
K %££?***"*'' "
And be it jurthtr evaded, Thai it (hall be the d"ut V of the f
tiollei to superintend theadjurtmentand preservation of theT.Tf"
accounts; to examine all accounts fettled by the Audi
certify the balances artfmg thereof to the Regifler tJooounta r
all warrants drawn by the Secretary of the
be Wananced by law ; to repjrt tx> the Swfetary rtfcWilT U
of all papers to be llftied in tlie different offices for colleftin 7*
public revenue, and the manner and form of keepinj and ft?,!/
the accounts of the several persons employed therein ■ h. ,L ?
moreover provide sot the regnlar and puniftial tfayWntof =i
monies Which may be colletted, and (Ml (Urea iL
all delinquencies of officers of the revenue, andVor
or shall be due to the United States.
And be it further enaded, That it shall be the duty of the trwl",,,
to-receive and keep the monies of the United Slates, andfod?
burse the feme upon warrants drawn by the Secretary ofthe Tm
fury, countersigned by the Comptroller, recorded hy'the
and not otherw.fe ; he (hall take receipts for all monies p,fj bv
him, and all receipts for monies received by him, sh a H beendorfj
upon warrants signed by the Secretary of the Treasury, W ;,C
which Warrant ft f.gned, for money reteCd
mtt. the public Treasury (hall bevalM : And the faidTrafarcr
lhall render his accounts to the Comptroller quarterly for o(teiwr
|f required) and fhalltranfmit a copy thereof, when failed, to,he
Secretary of the Treasury; he shall moreover, on the third day of
every session of Congress, t»y before the Senate and Houf- $
Kcprefcritatives, -fair and accurate copies of all acoouafc by hit*
from time to time rendered tos and fettled with the Comptroller
as aforefaiti, as also, a true and perfect account ofthe (late of tin
Treami*y ; he (toll at #1 tiirirtfabmitrtotheSecfeTar) ofthe f rej!
fury, and the Comptroller, or either of fflerh, the infpeAion rif -hi
monies i*i hit hands, and shall, prior to the entering irtdn the
duties of his office, give bond, With fuffieiem fyreti M , to bean
proved bv the Secretary of the Treasury and Comptroller b,
the sum of arte hundred and fifty (hofifarid dollars, payable to'th.
United States, with Condition for fhe'fiifltfd! performance df the
duties of hn office,and for the fidelity of the petfaiH to be By him
employed, which bbod shall be lodged in thfc ofto« bf die Corn*
trollcr ofthe Treafllry of the United States,
And be it further 'entßed, That it Mall be the duty of the Auditor
to receive all publfc accounts, and after examination to certify the
balance, and tranfmi't the accounts with the Vouchers and certi
ficates to the Comptroller for his deciflon thereon : Ttovtid. That
if any person whose accounts (ball be so audited, be Hilfitisfifd
therewith, he may within fix months appeal to the Comptroller
againfl such fettlemcnt.
And be it further entiled, Thatitlhall be the duty of the Resilier
to keep all accounts of the recipts and expenditures of the public
money, and of all debts due to or from the United States; to re.
ccive from the Comptroller the accounts which ftiaH have been
finally ad jutted, and to prefcrve such accounts with their vouchers
and certificates ; to record all warrants for the receipt ot payment
of monies at the Treasury, certify the fame thereon, and to trinf.
Mit to the Secretary of the Treasury, copies of the certificates of
balances orafceountsadjuited as is herein directed.
dh i "J UT "'" enaaed ' That whenever the Secretary shall be
rerrtbved from office by the President of the Uhited States, oru
any other cafe of vacancy in the office of Secretary, theaffillltt
J, the vacancy, have the charge and custody oftkere.
cords,books, and papers appertaining to the said office.
Xn&bt k fmlkY indffed, That no pcrfon appointed to anyoffica
instituted by thus ast, (Kali direftty or indireflly be concerned or
mterefted in carrying on the bufinets oftradeor commerce, or be
owner Hi whol« or in part of any sea vefTel, or patchafe himftlf,
or another in trull for him, any public lands or cither pubfcpro.
pcrty, or be Concerned m the purchase or difpo'fal of any public
Securities 6f any Stafe,-ot of thelJmted States, or take or apply to
his owe use, any emolument or Rain for negbciating or ttrafa&ing
any business in the said department, other than what (hall be af
lowedby law j and if any person shall offend agamft .nybfme
pronibitidrts of this ast, he (hall be deemed guilty of a high mit
demeanor, and forfeit to the United States the penalty of three
thousand dollar*, and fWH upon ro*vithan be removed frort
office, and forever thereafterircapable of holding any officeunto
the United States, Provided, that if any other perfoa-thart a puMis
prolecutor Iball give information of any f<uch offence, upon which
aprcfifctftionand cortviftiott 'shall be had, one half the aforefaid
penalty of three thoafafld dollars, When recovered, shall be for tUC
use of the perfoli jiving fuc> information.
FREBERIC-K AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Hoafe tf ReprtJentativH*
JOriNADAMS, P'ice-trefdent tf the Umlei Smo,
. and President of the Senate.
aM6vtb, s<(T-fMeiR <hesd, i'7?g.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Trejident of (he Vnitei Stttcs.
PRICE CURRENT. -NEW-YORK.
Jamaica Spirits, -
AntigUa Rum, . . -4/5.4 <lq.
St. Croix, do. . . 4 y 5 . a ,/g.
Country, do. . - tfio.
Molasses, ... a
Brandy, - . . c/j .
Geneva, . . . & j } .
Do. m cases, . . i%f. a
Mufecrvado Sugar, . . s 6f a 7if.
Loaf, do. - - Iyi'j a -,h.
Lump, do. . .
Pepper, ... 2 fg. a ifio.
Pinlfnto, . . . t jg_ a 2/.
Chocmlatr, ... IJ2.
Cocoa, . . . ?s y; a 80s.
Coffee, - . a
Indigo, (Carolina) 4/ * &
R »ce, - . . a 23/
Superfine Tlour, ... 45/.
Common do. - - 40f.
Rye do. nf, a 25/
Indian Meal, ... ivf.
c » - - 4_/j. pr. bujh,
Cofn, (Southern) . 3/9. a &[•
Do. (Northern,) - 4/3, a 4/6-
Beef, firft quality, - - 48f. a
Sccond quality, - - 43/"-
Pork, firft quality, - - 81[6,
—— Second quality, - . 70[6.
Hams, - 'jd.
Carolina Tobacco, „ 3d£. &
Virginia , . . 4d. a
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden*
Lane, nearthe Ofwego-Marict, New-York. —