uiiis pfdeXfai
[No. XLI.]
the TABLE T. No. XLI.
I am happy to be relieved from writing an eflay
for this number, by prefentirig my readers with
the following speculation, put into my hands
by a friend.
" Jt would be ft range if men agreed in their ideas
about titles, when there is no other fubjett of equal im
prtancc in which they do not disagree."
THE fubje<ft of addre fling thePrefident by a
title has afforded ample materials for
argument and conjecture. The queltion is not,
however, whether by a legislative ad: a title
foall be confered on him, but whether the two
Houses, or either of them, shall address him by
any other style than that of President. Titles
are fuppoled to be derived from courtesy and com •
mon usage : and in this form of the queltion ihe
right of the two houses to address him by a title,
is exactly on a footing with that of any other in
dividuals : But is the usage a proper and fafe one :
Though the public curiosity in relation to this
question has considerably abated, I infer from
many late publications that it is not wholly ex
tinct. The readers of the Gazette will not be
much inftrudted, possibly, however, they may be
3mufed,by an account of a conversation between
two violentdifputants on this point ; I happened
to be present, and will communicate the fub
itance of their arguments.
The anti-title champion said, " that addressing
by a title isanti-republican. A public officer,how
ever elevated, is merely the servant of the peo
rile, and a title tends to make him a bad one
For it creates in the people falfe ideas of the of
fice, and stimulates the ambition and vanity of
the officer: The progress is natural to the ufur
paiion of the powei s which are supposed to be
long to the title. The people will be prepared
by this mimicry of royalty for servitude, and the
magiftiate for ufurpation.—lndependently of the
ill tendency of the usage, there is more simpli
city and true dignity in forbearing, than givino
a title.—The language of adulation has been
strained till it has 101 l its meaning, and nothing
makes the ridicule of it but the an
tiquity of the practice. It is applied to the little
fta.es which never had power, or have loft it.
The titles of some of the German Princes are
abvirlefque upon dignity. High titles will re
quire great salaries. The people will be more
alarmed by this piece of arrogance than by
meafuresof national policy which would affect
their property and confer substantial strength on
the government. The national authority is fee
ble and in no condition to try experiments upon
the temper of the people. No title can be ap
plied which will not be laughed at. The prac
tice has descended to us from the Goths and other
barbarous nations ; and as this government is
founded on reasoning and reflection, and rests
for support on the good sense oi a people the most
cnlig.itened in the world, it cannot be deemed
necell'ary to address the President by a title.—Let
the tyrants of Alia work upon cowardice and ig
norance by the enchantment of found."
The advocate of titles replied, " That the anci
tnt republics did not depend on good sense alone ;
-They did more than we propose to do. A
chief magistrate is but a man, and not always
more respectable than many others. These wife
and jealous defend ers of liberty were not willing
totrult the execution of the laws to one who
rould command no more veneration than those
w o were bound to obey them. They omitted
no means to create a veneration for his official
charader. His person was declared sacred. Oaths
and imprecations were added, and many of the
rites oi religion. He was attended by lidiars,
ant wnh all the pomp of royaltv : Yet at the
or the year this mighty consul retired to
private life.
•1 '''f ? r . ale con ft>tutions have actually given ti-
\ es , ot higher import than any now in contem
atio.i foi the President. The people have nor
a,e - , nor fuffered the loss of liberty in confe
rence. J
J] C hav t 110 Pretcnfions to the mock humility
j ia.e n,,timed. There is real arrogance in it.
n . atlo,is Europe will not expert lis to teach
/" '° w r ° treat their supreme magistrates.
C 1 ® people dishonored and degraded by ad
ing their President by a title or style of office ?
'ne revcrfe is true.
tarn a ' llonarch y. the King is said to be the foun
lennlY l ° nor ' Tlle secret contempt of many for
ti nn . lcan influences their oppofi
havf 1° an - v r tnl 1 e derived from the people. We
them of" , enou gh of titles, andlongufed to
t .m, though not to such as are of popular extrac
ts a n ' 3 ni ° re than a lord, may cre
have ' ,ut f° r the people, who individually
0 ran ' { > collectively to bellow it, is ofFen
WEDNESDA Y, September 2, ijiy.
live co the pride ofthofewho despise everything
xv proceeds from their inferiors, and seems
to tne people themselves an awkward exercise cl
their prerogative. They are called, and really
are, the rounlain of power. Why is it less pro
per to call the people the fountain of honor ' In
a republic,the laws reign. The laws, then, mult
dc made respectable : The office of administering
t lem mult be made so too. Over and above the
influence of talents, men are honored for their
power or wealth. A people wliirh will not give
money, nor trult power, may effect the fame pu; -
pole by titles. The weaker the government,the
more need of their aid. They are cheaper than
money, and fafer than the sword, and probably
lav e more effeiS: than both in gaining the refpe<Jt
or the riling generation. Nor let us fear dan
gei from this. If, with a founding title, no real
power is given, the man who wears it will not
become dangerous to liberty. He is rather dis
armed by it : Like the peacock, encumbered with
his tail,he will be beaten by every dunghill cock.
If, without a title, great power is given, the
danger is the greater. Power is a ferpent,they tell
us, wliofe bite is deadly. Give him arattle and
the heedless paflenger will have warning. The
hlent snake in the graft is more to be dreaded.
It is as proper to guard a republic against the
contempt of it's members, as the ambition of it's
officers. I would have the people free, and while
they are so, I would have them refpecfttliemfelves
and their government ; and believe that their
si ee luftrages can make a man as honorable as a
bit of parchment with a King's signet."
I was called upon to decide the controversy—
and though I declined it, I was at length com
pelled to all'ume the judge
I declared that the utility of titles appeared to me
to be very much exaggerated. A government really
well balanced and well administered would not be
despised if they ffiould be refufed. Nor, while
elections continue to be free, will titles supply
men in power with money to corrupt, and armies
to crulh the defenders of liberty.—Time will de
cide whether they are ufeful at all, and in what
degree.
It would be difficult to fay what title should be
applied. Ridicule on one fide and jealousy on
the other, form a dangerous ftrait,through which
thole mult pass who would import a title. It is
probable that any which may be cliofen will be a
jest to one half the world, and a scare-crow to
the other. AMICUS.
EXTRACTS.
<l IN a free, well balanced government, how
impotent mull all warlike enterprizes prove,
that are not fancftioned by the people in their re
presentative aflembly ! Without money,the sinew
of war, thedefigns of an incroaching ambitious
Executive mult prove abortive.—A free represen
tation ot the people, which retains in its hands
this grand momentum of theconftitution, is a
never failing bulwark to freedom."
" No people could be more tenacious of tlieii
si eedom than the Swedes, till Gujlavus the foil of
Eric ascended the throne—His manners were so
amiable, Iris- virtues so conspicuous, his govern
ment so just, and he made so popular a use of his
powers, that his fubjecfts never thought they
could commit enough into his hands—But what
was the consequence ? His fucceflors made his
power a precedent for their own, without attend
ing to the precedent of his adminift ation.—This
inltance ffiews in the strongest point of view, how
neceflary, and how important a well defined con
stitution is to a free people."
A CORRESPONDENT observes, that " The
" firji magiflrate of our nation, when he gives a let
" ter of Credence to the King oj trance, ?nufl ?L ■
" htm the title oj His Most Christian Majefty,u>/i,!> a
" long firing of others : But -when the King oj France
" gives an Ambajfador a Letter of Credence to tht.
" fi r ft "tagijlrate of our nation, he mt/f} call him Le
" Sieur George U ajhington, president oj the United
" States.—An American Credence to Holland mujl
1" be directed to Their HighMightineilesThe Lords
" The States General of the United Netherlands :
" But a Dutch Credence mujl be direded, Tot-de
" Heer George Wajhington, President of the Uni
" ted States.
" Our Credences to Spain mujl be direfled to His
" Most Catholic Majesty : Spanijh Credences to A
" tnerica, mujl be directed to El Senor George
" Wajhington, President of the United States
This is American patriotism and national pride,
is it ?
American Credences to England must be direct
ed to His Mojl Excellent or His Mo/} Sacred Majejlv,
—British Credences to us, must be directed tr.
Mr. George IVajhington, President of the United
States.
f Published oh IVcdnefday and Saturday. J
This diftindlion must be known not only at
courts, but by the nations—by the officers, i'jldi
ers and Teamen of their armies and navies.
How many drubbings mull you give them be
fore they will refpec r t Mr. as much as Majejiy.
If titular distinCtions have any influence, at all,
upon human ears, methinks these are somewhat
humiliating to the brave, daring and intrepid
sons of American liberty
That we can chastise all the nations of the
earth if they affront us, to be sure cannot be
doubted : But what shall we do with the debts
■jud taxes, that will become necefl'ary to this
purpose ?—Molt men who hate honors, love mo
ney. O.
NEW-YORK, September 2, 1789.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
111 the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES,
SATURDAY, AUGUST 29, I 789.
A MESSAGE was received from the senate
with the bill to provide for the registering ves
sels, and to regulate the coasting trade—return
ed with the concurrence of the senate in the last
amendments proposed by the house.
The engrofled bill for eftablifliing the salaries
of the executive officers was read a third time,
a motion was made for its recommitment, which
was loft—The ayes and noes being called for by
Mr. Livermore, on the question, Shall this bill
pass ? are as follow—
AYES.
Meflrs. Ames, Baldwin, Benfon, Boudinot,
Brown, Cadwallader, Gale, Goodhue,Grifpi:, Hart
ley, Heijter, Jacifon, Laurance, Lee, Matthews,
Moore, Scott, Sedgwick, Sherman, Silvefler, Smith,
( VI.) Smith, (S. C.) Sturges, Trumbull, Tucker,
Wadfioorth, Wynkoop.— 27.
NOES.
Meflrs. Coles, Floyd, Fojter, Gerry, Grout, Ha
thorue. Livermore, Parker, Patridgt, Van RanfJ
laer, Schureman, Seney, Sinnickfon, Stone, Sumpter.
Thatcher.—l6.
she bill tor suspending the operation of a
clause in the collection law was read, and order-
to be eiigrofled lor a tnird reading on
Monday.
Mr. Bourn not presented a petition from the
inhabitants of the County of Middlesex, New-
Jersey, refpeCiing a clause in the judicial bill now
pending in theh. 'ife, read and laid on the tat^e.
In committee of the whole house, 011 the bill
for eftablifliing judicial Courts—Mr. Boudinot
in che chair.
_ The third fetftion was again under considera
tion.—The motion foi (hiking out the whole
claufeWas renewed by Mr. Li ermore 'The
tate of this clause, laid he, will determine the
late of the whole bill.—The greatcft obj ftim
that I have to it, is,that it efta'olifhes two diftmd:
fyfteuis of judicial proceedings in the United
States.—He then stated certain cases in which
there would be such clalhings and interferences
as would be attended with great difficulties
Suppofc, (aid he, a person is in the cr.ftody of a
State officer, and is at the fame moment taken
hold of by an officer of the federal court, what is
to be done—is the man to be divided ? This sys
tem may open a door to collusions in cases of
debt—by having prisoners under pretences of ar
velt by the federal authprity, violently forced
from the hands of State officers.- If ihefe
difficulties can be got over, I (hall think
more favorably of the bill ; but I do not fee how
they can be polfibJy—We have supported the Uni
on for fourteen years without such courts The
fame or equal abilities may be found jultice
may be aswelladmiiiiftered as heretofore 1 know
of no complaints of any great consequence that
have existed.—Some cales of capture have been
cai 1 ied to the court of appeals,but they have been
very few —He then adverted to the institution of
courts ol admiralty in favor of eftablilhing which,
he laid, the expence will not be by a fiftieth
pai t so much, and the advantage will be ten
thousand times as great.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) As much will depend on
he determination of this question, it is necefla
ry it lhould be well considered by all the com
mittee.—lt will not be easy to alter this'fyftem
when once eftabliffied : ihe judges are to' hold
-licit conimilfions during good behr.viour,aiid af
ter they are appointed, they av e only re moveable
by impeachment; consequently rhis system must
be a permanent one; the committee will not
therefore determine, that there ffiall be district
ourts, until they have reflected ferioully on the
consequences attending their vote.
After this point is fe led,' the next which oc
curs is the extent of jurifditftion, to be annexed
to this court. This question is as important as
the former ; for it will be no less difficult thanimproper to enlarge or curtail the jurifdidtion of
a court already ellablifhed. With refpedt to the
firft point, it feeinsgenerally conceded thattliere
ought trb be a diftridt court of some fort. The
constitution indeed recognizes such a court, be
cause it speaks of " such inferiors courts as the
Congress shall establish," and because it gives to the
iupreme court only appellate jurifdidtion in most
causes of a federal nature. But some gentlemen
are of opinion that the diftridt court should be
altogether confined to admiralty causes ; while
others deem it expedient that it should beintrufted
with a more enlarged jurifdidtion : and should in
addition to admiralty causes, take cognizance of
all causes of seizure on land, all breaches of im
post laws, of offences committed on the high seas,
and causes in which foreigners or citizens of other
Hates are parties. ihe committee are now to de
cide between these two opinions : After mature
reflection, I am inclined to favour the latter.
"What are the objections advanced against it ? A
gentleman from New-Hainpfhire has observed,
that I'uch an eftabliihment will be unneceflary, ex
pensive anddifagreeable to our constituents. Jus
tice, he observed, could as well be administered
311 the state as in the diftridt courts, and should the
Hate courts betray any fymproms of partiality,
their adjudications would be fubjedt to revision in
the federal supreme court, which in his opinion
afforded fufficient security. If the state courts are to
take cognizance of those causes which by the confli
tution are declared to belong to the judicial courts
of the United States, an appeal mull lie in every
cafe to the latter, otherwise the judicial authori
ty of the Union might be altogether eluded. To
deny such an appeal would be to fruftrate the most
important objects of the federal government,
and would obftrudt its operations. The neceflity
of uniformity in the decisions of the federal courts
is obvious ;to aflimilate the principles of national
decisions, and collect them, as it were into one
focus, appeals from all the state courts to the su
preme court would be indifpenfible; It is
however much to be apprehended that this
constant controul of the supreme federal court
over the adjudication of the state Courts
would diflatisfy the people, and weaken the
importance and authority of the state judges ;
nay more, it would lellen their refpedlability in
the eyes of the people, even in causes which pro
perly appertain to the state jurifdidtions ; because
the people being accustomed to fee their decrees
overhaled and annulled by a superior tribunal,
would soon learn to form an irreverent opinion
of their importance and abilities. It appears
therefore expedient to separate, as much as pos
sible, the state from the federal jurifdidtion, to
draw abroad line of diftindtion, to aflign clearly
to each its precise limits, and to prevent a clafn
ing or interference between them. The expence
is suggested as an objedtion to this system It is
admitted by the gentleman who makes it, thaPit
is proper to have diftridt courts of admiralty ;
these courts must of neceflity have jurisdic
tion of offences committed on the high seas. Now
the establishment of such a court will induce near
ly all the expence that will be requisite; the ex
tension of the system to the length I have stated
will occasion a very trifling increase of the ex
pence, and if the latter plan should be found,
after due conlideration to be more conducive to
the liappinefs and welfare of our constituent- than
the oiher, a small increase of the expence ought to
be 110 impediment to the attainment of so valauble
an objedt. There can be 110 reason why our con
stituents should be displeased with this arrange
ment; the diftridt judge will be eledted from
among the citizens of the state where he is to
exercise his fundtions and will feel every induce
ment to promote the liappinefs and protedt the
liberties of his fellow-citizens—he will be more
independent than the state judges, holding his
•commiflion during good behaviour, and not be
ng influenced by the fear of a diminution of his
salary.—Trial by jury will be secured in all cases,
wherein it is provided in the state courts. Should
the diftridt judge be under any biafs, it is reason
able to suppose it would be rather in favour of
his fellow-citizens, than in favour of foreigners or
the United States. By reftridting the state courts
to few causes of federal jurifdidtion, the number
of appeals will be diminifhecl, because every caule
tried in those courts will for the reasons before
mentioned be fubjedt to appeal, whereas t;\t ju
rifdidtion of the diftridt court will be filial in ma
ny cafe?. In as much, therefore, as those ap
peals are grievous to the citizens, which lie from
a court within their own state to the supreme
court at the feat of government, and at a great
diltance, they will consequently be beneficed by
an exemption from them. In the bill as sent from
the Senate, the jurifdidtion of the diftridt courts
is not so extensive as to occasion any just alarm ;
it is in my opinion rather too confined, and does
not embrace objects enough. It would be diffi
cult to take from that court any of its jurifdidti
on without materially injuring the whole judi
cial system, except the clause relating to consuls
and vice consuls, which appears to me to be im
properly annexed to the diftridt court, and which
I shall move to ltrike out when we come to that
part of the bill. But to what objects does the
diftii£l courts extend ? To admiralty causes and trials for piracy
and offences committed on the high seas : Gentlemen have con
ceded that thediftrift courts shall have jurifdi&ion of these cases.
To offencefc against the United States: It is very proper that a
court of the United States should try offences committed against
the United States.—Every nation on earth punifhcs by its own
courts offences against its laws. To seizures on land for breaches
of the revenue laws : This power will not be censured : it avouM
be felo de fe totruft the colle&ion of the revenue of the United
States to the state judicatures. The disinclination of the judges to
-carry the law irttoeffeft, their disapprobation of a certain duty,
the rules of the court or other obvious caufcs might delay or fruf
trate the colle&ion of the revenue, and embarrass the national go
vernment. From this view it appears that the diftrift court is
not cloathed with any authority of which the state courts are strip
ped, but is barely provided witji that authority which arises out
of the cftablifhment of a national government; and which is in
difpcnfibly neceflary for its fuppott.' Can the state courts
at this moment take cognizance of offences committed on the
high seas ? Ifthey do, it is under anaft of Congress, giving them
jurifdift ion, and in such cases the judge of the admiralty is alloc
ated with two common law judges ; this tribunal becomes then a
federal court for the particular occasion, because it is established
by Congress. The state courts have no jurifdi&iOn of causes arif
ingfrom a national impoftlaw, because no such law has hereto
fore existed. Where then is the ground of uneafincfs suggested by
gentlemen ? The foregoing observations must perfuacfe them
that their alarms- have been premature. But it is said there must
be court-houses, judges, marlhals, clerks, constables, goals and
gibbets that these eftablifhmcnts will induce a heavy and unne
ceflary burthen, and have a tendency to create difguftin the peo
ple. I readily agree with the gentleman that there are in every
community some individuals who will fee with pain every new
institution in the shape of a constable, goal or gibbet: and who
think that law and courts are an abridgement of their libert) ; but I
mould be Very sorry to concur with him that this is a prevailing
opinion : I think better of our conftitucnts, and am persuaded they
arc sensible that these institutions are neceflary forihe prote&ion of
their lives and property; and grow out of the very nature of a fe
deral government. Care indeed should be taken to prevent their
being grievous and oppreflive : But as long as there are in the
world knaves and rogues, and monsters under the form of men,
preying upon the honest and innocent, so long will courts
and all their concomitants be wanted to redress the
wrongs of the latter, and repress the depredations of the former.
But let me ask the gentleman whether a court of admiralty, and
i court for the trial of offences on the high seas, which he agrees
ought to be established, will not require all these institutions ;
viz. court-houses, cleiks, fheriffs, See ? There can be no doubt of
"• exle »fion of the jurifdi&ion of the diftrift court as far as
I thing it neceflary will not occasion any one article of expence or
any one institution which will not be neceflary on the gentleman's
plan. To suppose that there will be a clashing of jurifdi&ion be
tw en the state and diftritt courts on all occasion% by having a
double set of officers, is to suppose that the states will take a pica
lure in thwarting the federal government : It is a supposition not
warranted by the disposition of our fellow-citizens, who 4 find
ing that these cftablifhments arc created for their benefit and pro
tection, will rather promote than obftruft them : It is a fuppo
oui '/J"* I*'1*' °PP°fcd to the power of direst taxation, and to the
eltabliihment of state and county courts, which cxift in the several
ltates and arc produttive of no such inconvenience. These several
co " rl * aVe ,c ' r ' ts defined, and will move within their
relpecrive orbits without any danger of deviation. Besides, I am not
persuaded that there will be a neceflitv for having separate court
houses and goals : Those already provided in the several states will
be made use of by the diftrift courts. I remember *rhen the
court lor the trial of piracy under the authority of Cortgrefs, was
held inCharlefton, the judges set in the court-house, the prisoners
were confined in the goal, were under the custody of the confta
f Vm? rC exccutcc * h Y l^c orders of the fheriff of the diftnft
ol Charleston. All these were state institutions, and yet the
court was a federal court.
i here is another important consideration ; that is, how far the
constitution st an ds in the way of this motion :It is declared by
t at instrument that the judicial power of the United States shall
e vested m one fupremeand in such inferior courtsas Congress fliall
rom time to time cftablifh : Here is no discretion then in Con
grels the judicial power of the United States in any other
tribunal than in thefupreme court and the inferiorcdurts of the
mtcdStates : It is further declared that the judicial power of the
UiiitedStatcs lhall extend to all cases of a particular description—
How is that power tobeadminiftered PUndoubtedly by thctribunals
o the United States : If the judicial power of the United States ex
ten s to those fpecified cases, it follows indisputably that thetribu
-10 Tn ' States likewise extend to them.—What is the
0 jedt of the motion ? To aflign the jurifdittion of some of these
C u al " l ° ate . COum > t0 j ud S cs » who in many instances
hold their places fora limited period, whereas the constitution, for
1 f c S lc^! tcr Security of the citizen, and to infurc the independence
of the federal judges, has expressly declared that they fliall hold
their commifTionsdurihg. good behaviour; —to judges who are ex
poled every year to a diminution of salary by the state legislatures,
whereas the constitution to remove from the federal judges all de
pendence on the legislative or the executive, has prote&ed them
from any diminution of their compensation. Whether the inex
pediency or the unconftitutionality of the motion be consider
ed, there are more than fufficient reasons to oppose it. The dis
trict court is neceflary, if we intend to adhere to the spirit of the
constitution, and to carry the government into effect. At the
fame time, I shall chearfully aflift in organizing this court in that
mode which will prevent its being grievous or oppreflive, and
will render it conducive to the proUftion and happiness of our
constituents.
J A^ KsbN . : * Sir, on what I conceive the most impor
tant subject, which has yet come before this house : It is what I
ave long considered, and with difficulty have decided, but on ma
ture consideration, am imprefled with the fame sentiments with
the gentleman from Ncw-Hampfhire. It must be admitted, that
society was formed before the rules which governed thatfociety
and therefore the laws and rules Were formed merely for the con
venience of that society. In fattthe cotiveniency of the peoole is
or ought to be the firft privilege of every government ; and the
people have a right to expect it. Our present constitution has fa
out with this declaration, « We the People," in its preamble •
and therefore in the system before us, every attention of the Leril
flature ought to be drawn tothis point. Sir, I apprehend that the
system before us is not framed, or calculated for that purpofr •
but leems rather intended to destroy some of the most valuable'
and important privileges of the citizens. Ido not wish to diminl
ilh from the powers in the federal judiciary, which may be ne
ceilary and eommenfurate to the carrying the government fully in
to execution ; but I confiderthe system unncceflary, vexatious, and
expensive, and calculated to destroy the haimony and confidence
ot the people.
The gentleman from South-Carolina hasobjefted to the motion
for fti Jung out the clause, tor several reasons : The firft he brings
forward is, that in several of the State, the Judges arc limited
■n the.rappo'ntments .hat mferio,. j ur lf diaio n J s are required by
manpnt f I "»'"c Sate judge. are not vested with per
manent falanes. Sir, those arguments fall to the ground on re
eiring to the Constitution : The Constitution does not absolutely
lequire m ferior jurisdictions :It fays, that " the ndicial power
of lie United States shall be vested m one fupremc court, and in
and eftablift, " ,hc , Con g rcfß n ' a y/ r om timeto time ordain
and eitabliih Ihe word nay is not positive, and it remains with
Congress to determine what inferior jurifdlaions are nrceffan
and what they will ordam and eftablifb, for if they chufe, or think
J uri '^ia.on S neccflarv, thesis no obligation lo eftah
t,,ClP' l! lhc " reßlains «>f Ie S .flature of the Union to
examine the necessity or expediency of those courts «l r c
the fubjea o expediency, I lor my part, cannot fee i f"' °»
of opinion that the State courts will anfvver , w ,„ ■
pose. udlc «rypi,r-
The gentleman from South-Caro'.ina has arain advan j
if diflndt and circuit courts are not adopted" rH, k, "'W
States and people will be at (lake, and that the'fyttem ""n"? of l!, e
vexatious by a fines of appeals." Sir, Ido not j, r morc
doctrine. I hold that the harmpnv of the people "r'
and properties will be more ferure'unde, the La'l c ' !u '
ancestors, undertheir modesof trial, and known meth J" 1i" !r
lhc >' have heretofore been accuftomcd to receive 1
their own doois in a simple form. The fyftera before,'lk!'
has a round of courts, appellate from one to the other and.l
man that is engaged With a rich opponent, will beVarnff. i P ' W
mod cruel manner, and although the sum be limited f " C
yet, Sir, the poor individual mav have a legal to a f,!,!. 1 ?' I ''
no- :o th; t limitat on, fay above a certain amount of doll" pt "
not possess fortune fufficient to carry on his law suit • He
under the oppreflion of his richer neighbor. Jam , ,
opinion that the people would much rather hove l,u* one"''" ° f
and which in my tfpiuion would answer every puroofe • W!™ 1 '
from the State courts, immediately to the fupteme corn f?
continent. An admiralty jurifdiftion I will grant mav ben f
fary lor the trial of maritime affair,, and matter, 7ZtZt
revenue, to which objea I would cheerfully eniar« it and i,J ,
Sir, lor the present it will be far more eligible. The Kntl
has likewise advanced that the expence would beas Ereatwith"""
as with the inferior jurifdiftion. I must beg leave to diir-rf 0 "'
him, and to declare that it will be in the proportion of thr"""
one: for although the clerk and marflial of the
the officers proposed for the circuit courts, yet, Sir, therewili !r £
a train of inferior officers, consequently attendant on those ofEcr
and courts, exclusive of jurors, witnelfes, He has like /
advanced that it is neceltar'y to prevent confufion : Sir, the line's
diftinflion will be much cjfier preserved iivthe present fijte o ftl
department, for many of the reasons pointed gut by the ecml-"
manfrom New-Hampshire, exclusive of the difficulty ot newnik.
&c. But, Sir, we arc told it is necefTary that every govemmii'
should have the power of executing its own laws: this arrument
must likewise tumble when we find that the Constitution, treaties
and laws of the United States are by the Constitution itfelf. made
the fupremr law of the land. Sir, are not the judges of the'diffei
ent States bound by oath to support that fuprcinelaw ? Wilhh
not rccollefl those oaths, and be liable to puuifhment by your ast
which has obliged them to take that oath, if they do not re(pt£t
it as such ? afTuicdly they will—it is part of thecompaft fotmrd
with the States ; but, Sir, does there not remain the appellate in
rifdiftion of the fupremecourt to controltherti.and bring them to
their reason ? Can they not reverse, or confirm the State decrees js
they may find thein right or wrong ? Thus then does this laltar
gument fall to the ground.
Sir : That the system is vexatious can be easily proved, and is tot,
obvious. An offender is dragged from his home, his friends,and
connections, to a distant spot, whe:e he is deprived of every ad
vantage of former chara&er, of relatiens, and acquaintance : Tbt
right of trial by a jury of the vicinage is done away, and perhaps
he is carried to a place where popular clamor for the moment
might decide against him ; or if allowed a trial by vicinage, or his
neighbors, it is equally vexatious to drag them two or three hun
dred miles from their homes, with evidences to try, and givetelli
mony, at a distant place ; everything ic to be dreaded from it. Sir,
Ins is contrary to our wonted customs, and we need but revert to
the history of Britain, after the conqucft, to view what ftrugglcs
a gain ft innovations ot this nature that nation made. Thcraon.
kifh clergy joined with the Kings to oppress the people, eftablilh
civil law, and get the legal power into their own hands: The peo
ple took the alarm, and the nobility contested the point,
which was never finally fettled until the great charter of John,
which it was one of the causes of producing, and which fixed the
ecclefiaflical bounds I would ask if our modes of trial mu/f not
be as dear to our fellow-citizens as to them, and if the famecom
motions may not reasonably be expe&ed ? I am afraid, Sir, that
they will be found so. Is it proper we should be so fufpiciouj
of the State Judges ? I cannot for my part consider human nature
so depraved, as to fuppofc that with an oathtoobfervethefupreme
law of the land, the State Judges would not obey it. It becomes
us in my opinion, as a wife legislature, to take up and execute the
lead exceptionable and milder mode firft : there is no requisition
—no necessity from the Constitution : If we find on experiment,
(and the house generally admit our laws at present experimental)
that fufficient attention is not paid, and that our government re
quires for its existence a more energetic mode, I pledge myfelfto
agree to any inferior jurisdi&ions which may be thought necefTary
for that purpose ; but I never can consent to oppress my fellow
citizens without experiment and absolute necessity.
Mr. Benson observed, that if the clause is uruck out of the
bill, it will involve an abandonment of judicial proceedings on the
part of the United States altogether, except in cases of appeals.—
1 he difficulties which may arise in this cafe, are notjuftlycharge
able to the bill itfelf, they are owing entirely to the constitution—
lor that is exprefs,that the general government fhallexercifeallju
dicial powers : This Legislature therefore, have it not at their op
tion to establish judicial courts, or not : The words of the system,
are plain and full; and the institution of the courts, arise out of
the very nature of the government: How far the operation of this
powci may extend, it isnot for us to determine: Whether it will
interfere with the State judicatories is a matter that must be the re
of experiment—Some gentlemen suppose it will, and it may
be that it will involve the aflumption of the whole judicial power;
but still the clause docs nothing more than take up the letter and
spirit of the conflitution.
Mr. Sedgwick observed, that the gentleman will find as great
difficulties to arise upon his plan, as upon that proposed in the
bill—and this is obvious—we are so circumstanced that two dit
tinft independent powers of judicial proceedings doexift ;and
not fee how we shall get rid of the difficulty, if it is one, till there
shall be a change in the constitution. I did not fuppofethatat thi>
day, it was a question whether this government is to exercife aU
the powers of a government, or not? I did conceive that such
an idea had no exiftcnce in any gentleman's mind—but Sir, wha
does the present motion import ? Its consequences go to divel*
ing government of a power, without which its authority is but J
fliadow. It is necefTary to the completion of any system of g° v
eminent, that it should possess every power necefTary to carry' ts
laws and ordinances into execution. But by the gentleman V
it is to be left to the determination of an authority, which a "* in ..
dependently of this legislature, whether the laws of the union j
be executed or no. Mr. Sedgwick then touched upon the
difficulties that would arise from giving the state courts cognizance
of federal questions —He also adverted to the conduct of the ltate
legislatures,(the creators of state courts and judges) in refp e 1
infra&ions and violations of contrails, See. by which the ~ nltc *
States had been humbled from the pinnacle of glory* to oW c
state of degradation. Under the impression of these conn er
tions, said he, can it be supposed that this government can exu
with any degree of reputation, and dignity without the
establishing its own tribunals, and inllituting its ownjudicia P
ceedings? It appears to me as neceflary that they should p°
this power, as that they should be United in order to their exi
ence as a nation. . c
Mr. Ames : The remarks which gentlemen have made °n
importance of this question will be of some use in deciding i •
judicial power is in fact highly important to the govern .
to the people : To the government because by this means, i
are peaceably carried into execution. We know by exp
what a wretched system that is which is divefled nation*
We fee the difference between a treaty which independent i
make, and which cannot be enforced without war, a ". 2( | c
which is the will of the society. A refractory individua if I the weigut of tiie whole community. A government
"V h av make, but not enforce laws, cannot lad long, nor do
hood By this power too, the people are gainers. The ad
mUCnLinn of iuftice is the very performance of the social bargain
"he nart of government. It is the rtward of their toils—the
"" • alent for what they surrender. They have to plartt, to water.
e(^ UIV ire the tree, and this is the fruit of it. The argument there
to man j s ft rf) ng againit the motion, for while it weakens
vernme'rtt it defrauds the people. We live in a time of in
t on - but until miracles (ball become more common than or
jo'3 v events, and surprize us less than the usual course of nature.
I(3think 'it a wonderful felicity of invention to propose the
dient of hiring out our judicial power, and employing courts
eXP amenable to our laws, indead of indituting them ourselves as
Iheconftitution requires. We might as'properly negociate and
fl"»n over our legidative as our judicial power ; and it is not more
ft"!n"e to get the laws made for this body than after their palTage
""(them inteipreted and executed by those, whom we do not
10 "onit and cannot controul. The field of debate is wide. Th'
for'confideration has been so ample, and that remaining for
j'bate is lo short, that I will not enter fully into it. The gentle
"an from South-Carolina (Mr. Smith) has very ably proved the
m spec Jicncy of the motion. I will confine myfelt to another
point and'' ' can edablilh it, it will narrow the difcuflion.
Xhe branches of the judicial power of the United States, are, the
dmiralty jurifdlftion, the criminal jurifdi&ion, cognizance of
'crtain common Jaw caul'cs, and of such as may be given by the
Statutes of Congress. The Conftitution,and the laws made in pur
suance of it, are the supreme law of the land. They prescribe a
nileof a&ionfor individuals. If it is disputed whether an a£t
done is right or wrong, reference mud be had to this rule ; anc
het'ner the attion is compared with the rule of action ma State or
federal court, it is equally out of the power of the judges to fay
that is wrong, and wrong right :If a man is retrained or
bis liberty and sues in a State court, the defendant lliews, that he
was a marlhal and served a precept according to a law of the Uni
ted States, he mud be cleared ; otherwise the law of the Unitec
Sates would not be the supreme law of the land. But there is a
{übftantial difference between the jurifditlion of the court, andtti'
juiesof decision.
Inthe latter cafe, the court has only to enquire into the facts and
tbc rales of action prescribed to individuals : In the former, the)
donol enquire how, but what they may try. The jurifdiflion o
the court is the depofitum of a trud. The supreme power in a ftati
is the fountain ofjudice. Such dreams are derived from this foun
tains the courts, as the legislature may positively enaO. The
jud/es as servants of the public, can do that only for which they
are employed. The conditution has provided how this trust (hall
fee defeated. The judges mud be named by their christian and
lir names, commidioned during good behavior, and have salaries
Caufesof exclusive federal cognizance cannot be th. d otherwise,
nor can the judicial power of the United States be otherwise excr
citcd. The date courts are not fujipofed to be deprived, by the
cenftitution, of the jurifdiftion which they cxercifed before over
many causes which maybe tried now in the national courts. The
fears will have their choice of courts. But who (hall try a
crime .against a law of the United States, or a new created action ?
Here a 'urifcH&ion is made de novo. A trull is to be exercised, and
this can be done only byperfons appointed as judges inthe man
ner before mentioned : The will of the society is exprefTed and
isdifobeved, and who (hall interpret and enforce that will, bul
the persons inveded with authority from the fame society ? The
Statt judges arc to judge according to the law of the State, and the
commonbw. The law of the United States is a rule to thcmbui
not an authority for them. It controuls their decisions, but can
not enlargetheir powers. Suppose an attion brought on a datutt
declaring a forfeiture equal to the whole of the gyods againd him
whofhall unlade without a permit: Before the law was made, no
courthad jurifdiftion. Can a State court fudain such an a£bon i
Theymayas properly assume admiralty jnrifdiftion, or fudain
actions for forfeitures of the British revenue a£ls. I mean no dif
rtfpeftto the State courts. In some of the States I knowthe judges
are highly worthy of trud ;they are fafeguards to government,and
ornaments of human nature. But whencc would they get the
power of trying the supposed aflion ? The States under whom
they ast, and to whom alone they are amenable never had any
such power to give, and this government never gave them any.
We may command individuals : But what right have we to re
quire the servants of the States to serve us. Nay, Sir, it is not on
ly true that they cannot decide this canfe, if we ncgleft to make
provision by creating proper tribunals for the decision, but they
will not beauthorifed to do it even if we pals an ast declaring that
they (hall be inverted with power : For they mud be individual
ly commidioned and falaricd to have it conditionally, and then
they will not have it as the States, judges. If we may empower
one State court, fuppnfe the supreme court, we may empower a 11,
or any, even the judiccs of the peace. This will appear more
nonfir us, if we consider the trial of crimes. A datute creates an
"fence. Shall any judice of the peace be directed to summon a
jurytotrv lor treason or piracy ? It is true the government will
noidireft a thing so wickedly absurd to be don 1 * But who
will believe government may lawfully do it ? It would be tedious
topurfucthis fubjeft, or even the ideas conncfled with it very far.
Thenature of the fubjeft renders it difficult to be oven perspicuous
withont being prolix. My with is to edablilh this conclusion,
that offences againd datutes of the United States, and ac tions the
cognizance whereof is created de novo, are exclusively of federal
jwifdiftion ; that no persons can ast as judges to try them, except
Masmay be commidioned agreeably to the conditutions. That
'or the trial of such offences and causes tribunals mud be
"fated. Thefewith the admiralty jurifdiftion which it is agreed
moll be provided for,conditute the principal powers of the d idrifl
[ o«tts If we mud pay judges, we may as well employ them.
The remnants of.'jurisdiction which may be taken away,are fcarce
•y worth transfering to the State courts,»nd may as well be exercis
ed by our own.
Several other gentlemen spake ; but thecommittee rose withoul
coming to a vote upon the motion, and the house adjourned.
(This debate to be continved.)
MONDAY, AUGUST 31.
The encoded bill to suspend the operation of a clause in the
collection law was read a third time.
Mr. Bland informedthe house that the towns of Petersburg
a nd Richmond laboured under the fame difficulties, and had fi
mlar grievances to complainof, with the inhabitants of George
town and Alexandria—he moved therefore that this bill should
De re-committed for the purpofc of adding a clause to relieve those
Paces. It was accordingly voted that the bill be re-committed
s committee of the whole.
A memorial from Hoc.h Williamson, in behalf of the
'°™S intercft of North-Carolina, reprelenting the hardships
at date TufFers, by reason of the alien tonnage duty being levied
°pon their vessels in the dates under the new government.
this memorial with that from the commanders of the packets
ram Rhode-Island and Providence, were refered to a committee
01 'he whole house.
haif 10 comm,u ee appointed for the purpofc, reported that th(*y
I ~d the enrolled bill for regidering vefi'els, and to regu
ih»' !L coa^'n gtrade—and found the fame correct. The speaker
n a .ixcd his signature to the fame.
of the whole, upon the bill for cftablifhing ju
j n C r °j lts ~~Mr. Boudinot in the chair—the third fettion un
after"° n , , ra^0n * The debate was very long this day; and
f j u3 0 c ' oc k the motion for ftrikinir out the clause was negativ
" a large majority. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER T.
A mo (luge from the senate with a bill provid
ing for the punifliment of certain crimes. Also
the bill for allowing compensations to the mem
bers of the house and senate, and their repetit
ive officers ; in which the senate has concurred,
with amendments.
Upon motion, the report of the committee of
elections, on the eledion of members for the
(fate of New-Terfey, was taken up for a second
reading.
rhis brought on a variety of observations and
proportions ; but 110 determinate principle of
discussing the fubjedt being readily agreed to,
and several motions being made and withdrawn,
Mr. Vi n 1 n g proposed, in fubltance, the follow
ing resolution : viz- Resolved, That the fails
reported by the committee of eleiftions, and the
documents therein refered to, refpetfting the e
iedlion of the members from the state of New-
Jersey, are not fufficient to support the prayer
of the petition for fettihg aside said election.
Several members spake upon the proportion ;
but an adjournment L"ing called for prevented a
lecifion.
European Accounts, by the late arrivals.
LONDON, MAY 7.
The debates on the intended motion for the
abolition of the slave trade, promise to be of the
nioft interesting kind. The report of the Privy
Council, which has been printed for the use of
the members of the House of Commons, is the
molt voluminous ever seen, if we except the re
port some years ago on India affairs. It is a ve
ry large folio closely pi inted, and nearly one
fourth of it tables of calculations. The pains,
however, that has been taken, correspond with
the great importance of the fubje«ft—too impor
tant to be hurried by a niiftaken humanity, ex
cited by the recital of fa(fts either ill founded, or
long ago done away.
Hermanstandt, May 20. One of our spies
has had the address to procure a paflport from
Prince Moutor Jeni, by means thereof he had an
opportunity of traversing the whole of Wal
lacliia. According to his report there are 40,000
Turks and Tartars in the neighborhood of Grind,
onthelhore of Jalomiza.
Bud a, May 30. On the yth inft. three divi
sions of the Huflars of Graven arrived at the
camp between Carllladt and Thurn ; they were
the next dayfollowed by a battalion of Colonel de
Nadelty. The 9th, two other divisions of the
GrtEven Huflars joined the camp—the centinels
extend as far as Saluin and Rakovifa. There are
fifty pieces of cannon in the village of Schweza.
Frankfort, June 9. Themain body of the
Pruflian army is exceedingly numerous : Its
right wing coders Seliftria, audits left extends as
farasOrfova. It is estimated that the Turkish in
fantry amount to 169,000 men, and the cavalry
200,000.
The grand Ottoman army assembled near
Widin, appears disposed to enter Wallachia,
Paris, June 25. The Nationalafiemblycon
tinue their fittings sometimes till three or four
in the morning.
Paris is full of alarms, joy,mifery and rejocings !
London, June 30. We may consider Bender
as now in the hands of the Ruffians. General
Kamineky, to whom the fiegeof it was commit
ed, has conduced it in such a manner, that it
was in his power to takepofleffion of it whenever
he pleased after the firft three weeks. But by a
lingular instance of felfdenial, he was resolved
to wait the arrival of Prince Potemkin, that he
might have the honour of completing the conquest
of this important fortrefs.
The Poles have a new cause of complaint a
gainst Russia. The Emprefshad promised them,
that no more of her troops should enter the terri
tory of the Republic ; and she even declined the
permission offered by the Diet to let 500 Ruifians
pass at a time through the territories of Poland,
lying between Russia and Turkey.
But notwithstanding this promise on the part of
the Empress, a whole army of Ruffians lately
marched through Polish Ukraine, to make head
against the Seraikier, who gives out that he is go
ing to cross the Danube to succour Bender, and
recover Ockzakow.
How this step of the Empress will be relished
by the Court of Berlin we know not; but we
fear that the consequence of this step will be felt
in Great Britain.
Extrafl of a letter from Abo, Sweden, May 29.
" Last night a courier palled through this
place 011 his way to Stockholm, from the frontiers
With the news of an adlion having taken place
between the Ruffians and the Swedes, in which
the former had 500 men killed on the spot, the
Swedes loft only 19. A bagage magazine belong
in"-to the Ruffians was burnt."
o
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK.
Saturday. Packet Jean Jacques, Lewis le Grand, Bourdeaux.
Bug Peggy, Mulboland, Bristol, 53 days.
Brig Bet fey, Sinclair, Hull, 49 days.
Sunday, Brig Princess Ann, Richardson, Aberdeen, 66 days.
Monday, Brig Commerce, Tyrie, Barcelona,
Tvefir'.. Schooncr Nancy, Tatem, St. Croix.
NEIV-TURK, SEPTEMBER 2.
Monday 3-o'clock P. M. the Hon. Major Gen
eral Lincoln, the Hon. Cyrus Gain in,' and
Col. David Hump hre Ys,Comniiflioners Plenipo
tentiary from the United Stales for treating with
the southern nations of Indians, failed from this
city for Georgia.
Nontoweka a chief of the Cherokee nation is
a paflenger with the commiflioners.
Every movement in this business has been mark
ed with the nmlt decided promptitude and dis
patch. The billproviding lor the f'applies is short
and coinprehenlive.—as loon as it was compleat
ed the appointments were made. Two days con-
It ant and close application were given by the ,
President and Senate in conlering upon, and
arranging this important business.—Gen. Lin
coln received notice of his appointment on Tues
day evening of last week, and fat out the next
morning for this city—he arrived here late on
Saturday evening* and on Monday the commifli
oners failed. This is doing'bufinefs—thus is the
public service expedited, and the public money
saved by a wife, an indultrious, and patriotic Su
preme Executive.
The Most Hon. WilliamJFew, Senator of the
United States tookpaflage with the commiflion
ers for Georgia.
Of all the curfcs that can befall a free people
there is none pregnant with more fatal conse
quences than to have it become unpopular to sup
port the government and adminiitration which
the people have eltabliflied. Liberty, disgust
ed with so vile a principle, and finding no reft
for the sole of her foot among a restless fickle and
factious generation, takes her flight never to re
turn.
The old enemies of our federal honour and
happiness are reviving from that torpidity into
which they were chilled by the majesty of the
union, which led to the adoption of the new go
vernment. A few scouting ' parties have been
popping their short pieces at several minutiae of
Jie administration, jult by way of trial. Some
honest people have heard the distant whizzing,
and have supposed danger was near; but let
them be on their guard and prepare for more se
rious alarms. The overthrow of the constitution
is yet a darling object with many ; and if the ad
ministration can be enfeebled bv eflential restric
tions, or rendered odious by lies and defamation,
it will not be the fault ofJome persons, if we are
not dil'appointed of peace, law, freedom and
government, after all our exertions to feenre
them under the new constitution.
Extrail of a letter, from Frederickfburg, An git ft 29.
" Mrs. Washington, the Mother of our Pre
sident, died this afternoon."
From Norfolk, we learn that seven Sailors
have lately been apprehended there, charged
with having committed Piracy ! —The only Par
ticulars related, are—that they belonged to a
Veflel from Port-au-Prince bound to some Port
of America—rhat on their coming within Sight
of Land, they formed a Design to plunder the
Veflel, under a Supposition that there was a large
sum of Money on Board—that to effedi this, they
murdered the Captain, Mate, and Cook ; plunder
ed the Veflel of what Money they could find, funk
her, and came on Shore in the Boat. The Story
they related refpetfling the Veflel which they had
left, appearing rather suspicious, they were ap
prehended, and one of thein turned Evidence
against the rest—so that there is no Doubt of their
having commited the above inhuman acft.
A Li J I of His Most Christian Majesty's Ships now
lying at the Mouth of York River.
Ships' Names. Guns. Commanders.
L'llluftre, 74 Le Vicomte de Penteves
Gien, Chef d'Efcadre.
La Leopard, 74 Marquis de la Galilfionier.
L'Andromaclie, 40 M. Sufannot.
LaSenfible, 40 M. de Brache.
L'Aftive, 32 M. de Traverfac.
The above Squadron was to fail for Boston on
Thursday last.
OF DEBTS.
,c OWE NO MAN ANY THING."
" One mud sometimes bear the reproach of felfifhnefs, in order
to pay a debt, or to keep out of it : The cohtempt which attends
avarice, and the tendency of the present age to charity, and expen
sive living, render this difficult—Hence young persons are apt to
go to greater expence than they know they ought, and commit
one error, in order to avoid the imputation of another.
" Diftin£uifh between apparent and real approbation—between
that which is ill, and that which is well founded—between a tem
porary and a permanent one.
" The (hew of wealth and liberality procures apparent approba
tion : Outward refpeft and flattery, are the reward of ostentatious
entertainments, but indicate no solid refpeft : The wife disapprove
of excels in appearance, and fit uneasy at a feaft which they know
has cost more than the giver can afford.
" A reputation founded on conduct which we ourselves know
to be wrong, yields little fatisfa&ion but one that is well founded,
is always accompanied with felf-approbation : If it should be de
nied for a time, the consciousness of meriting it, and the hope of
justice, will more than ballance its temporaiy suspension.
" At death, a man'seharatter is fixed : Some have been account
d felfifh and contra&ed as long as they lived, and it appeared at
last that their object was not to hoard, -but to render to all their
due. " This should teach us to beware of imputing avarice to
those who in all probability are only laboring to be just.
" A person who tranfgrefles the bounds of economy to obtain
a character, loses it at death.—Acts of bencvolence with other
men's money, will leave a stigma upon the memory, which a sense
of injury will perpetuate from generation to generation."The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED,
(Continued from our laj\.)
TAROUIN, by his ambafladors, solicited at
least the reltoration of his property. Brutus op
pofedit. Collatinus, the other consul, advocated
the demand of his royal banished couiin. The
senate was divided : The question was referred
to the people aflenibled by centuries. The two
consuls zealously supported their different opin
ions. Collatinus prevailed l>y one vote. Tar
quin's ambafladors rejoice and intrigue. A con-
Jpiracy was formed, in which a great part of
the yoilng nobility was concerned : two of the
Vitellii, l'ons of Collatinus's lifter, an 1 brothers
of Brutus's wife ; two of the Aquilii, sons of an
other filter of Collatinus, as well as two of Bru
tus's sons, 'were engaged in it. When the con
spiracy was discovered, Brutus alone was inexor
able. Collatinus endeavored to save his nephews.
—Collatinus, as the husband of Lucretia, ap
pears to have been actuated by resentment against
the person ofTarquin, but not to have been very
hearty in the expulsion of che family, or the abo
lition of monarchy. His warmly contending for
the reftitutijn of Tarquin's effects, and his aver
iion to the condemnation of the conspirators,
completed his ruin with Brutus. He ailembled
the people, and was sorry that the Roman peo
ple did notthink their liberties fafe whilethey saw
the name and blood of Tarquin not only fafe in
Rome, but verted with fcfvereign power, and a
dangerons obstacle to liberty. Collatinus was
amazed at such a speech, and prepared to de
fend liimfelf against this attack ; but finding his
father-in-law Spurius Lucretius join Brutus, and
other principal men, in persuading him, and
fearing that he should be forced into banishment,
with the l confifcation of his estate, he abdicated
the consulship, and retired to Lavinium : but he
carried all his effects with him, and twenty
talents, or 3,87; sterling, which Brutus
added five talents more, a molt enormous sum,
if we consider the universal poverty of that age,
and the high value of money.—ls it pollible to
find, in this character and conduct of Collatinus,
such disinterested and magnanimous virtue as our
author speaks of? Is this an example to prove
that disinterested virtue was frequent in that ltate ?
He inutt have been dead to every manly feeling,
if he had not refemed the rape and death of his
wife. He did not retire but to avoid banish
ment; nor was he contented without his whole
estate, and a splendid addition to it: So that
there is scarcely a character or anecdote in histo
ry less to our author's pnrpofe in any point of
view.
There is an extravagance in many popular wri
ters in favor or republican governments, which
injures much oftener than it lerves the cause of li
berty. Such is thai of our author, when lie cites
the example ot Rcgulrs. Let us fit ft remember,
however,that Regulus was a patrician and a sen
ator, and that he was appointed to his command,
and continued in it, by the senate ; and therefore,
instead of being an example in honour of a sim
ple or a representative democracy, it operates in
favor of an aristocracy, or at molt it favor of
a mixed government, in which an ariftocray has
full one third part. Regulus had been in a course
of victory, which the senate would not interrupt,
and therefore continued him in the command of
the army. He wrote to the senate to complain
of it. The glory of it to himfelf, the advantage
to the public, was not reward enough to him.
He demanded a fuccellor ; and what was his rea
son ! A thief had stolen his tools of liufbandry
used in manuring ; his tenant was dead, and his
prelence was absolutely neceflary to prevent his
wife and children from starving. is it possible
to read this without laughter and indignation ;
laughter at the folly of that government which
made fopoor a provision for its generals, and in
dignation at the fordid avarice of that senate and
people, who could require a threat of resignation
from the conqueror of Carthage to induce tliein
to provide for his wife and children. The senate
decreed that his field should be cultivated at the
public expence, that his working tools should be
replaced, and his wife and children provided for.
Then, indeed, Regulus's aversion to the service
was removed: To such fordid condescensions to
the prejudices and meanness of the stingy and
envious parts of the community are such exalted
fouls as that of Regulus obliged sometimes to
submit; the eternal panegyrics of Republican
writers, as they call themselves, will never recon
cile mankind to any thing so ridiculous and con
temptible. The labourer is worthy of his hire :
he who labours for the public should live by the
public, as much as he who preaches the gospel
should live by the gospel; and tliefe maxims of
equity are approved by all the geneious part of
mankind. And people whose heads are turn
ed with conttaefted notions of a contrary nature,
will forever be the dupes of the designing; for
where you will find a single Regulus, you will
find ten tlioufand Caesars.
(To be continued)
ivRUON MJHCt.LIANi.OUS ARUi.L^S.
\
LONDON, MAY IJ.
It is expcfted Mr. Neckar will be very hard
run in the Aliembly of the States. The no
bility of Paris have lhewn great ikill and in
trigue in the choice of their deputies, to the
the States-general. It can scarcely be believed,
though it is a fact, that they have chosen Monf.
D'Elpremenil as their firft repi efentative, in pre
ference to the piince of the blood and the fii lt
nobility in the kingdom.—This gentleman not
long since, declared in parliament, that he was
the enemy of M. Neckar, and said, Let his friends
■withhold their votes •from me. since I -will never ceafi
till ] unmajk him.
The opinion of the city of Paris may be judged
of from this election.
In the mean time, Paris swarms with periodi
cal publications in opposition to government, and
the king has found itneceflary, notwithstanding
the declaration in M. Neckar s speech, that the
liberty of the press should be allowed, to publilh
an ordinance for their suppression, as well as no
tice to all booksellers who shall fell them, on the
penalty of forfeiture of their estates.
June 3. Yesterday morning advices were re
ceived from Hamburgh, confirming the intelli
gence, that Admiral Wrangell has put to sea
from Carlfcroon, with thirty men of war,
great part of which were line of battle fliips,
from 66 to too guns. The Admiral was proceed
mg up the Baltic, towards the coafl of Finland,
in order to make acruife in fucha iituation as to
bloc', up the port of Revel, and to prevent the
lquadron from Conftradi forming a junction with
the Ruffian fleet, in the harbour of Copenhagen :
In such cafe, one engagement may fettle the Hate
of this year's campaign by sea.
Extract of a letter Jrotn Madrid, June j.
" The Hon. W. tutu, commercial negociator from London,
havin , finilhed the lyftcm of commerce which is about to take
place between Spam and England, left this city last week, and is
gon.* from hcnce to London. All rcllndions on the commerce
between the two nations will be removed, and a plan of trade
fettled. No articles have yet appeared, but they are cxpc&cd to
be nearly similar to those with trance."
The benevolent and philanthropic Mr. Howard is pre
paring to leave his native country on a three year's tour. One
year ne purposes to spend in Egypt. Should this truly valuable
member of society live to return', and that he may mull be the sin
cere wilhof every good man, his gieat work on Lazarettocs will
be enriched by an appendix, in which the history of the plague
will make a conspicuous figure.
It is now prettyclear to every discerning mind that nothing
deeifne will be done in the slave-trade this ieflion, several
having been alreadv taken up in examining a few witneiles
when such a multitude remained behind. The reports before the
privy council too, now printed for the use of the members, arc all
so contradictory—so much the efleft of interest, of pailion, of
hear-say, &c. that it would be next to drawing lots Jor jujlicc to
come to a ready condufion either way. It is to be hoped, how
ever, some temporary measures will be adopted,and that the trjed
eft rts of those mealures, with a clearer view of the general queilion
will enable Parliament to effect that reform next leflion, which will
do credu to the legislature of Grcat-Britian.
FRANCE JUNE 8.
The payments at the Hotel de Ville are begun
for the last fix months of 1788, as Mr. Neckar
had mentioned in his speech. It is wonderful
how government keep up their credit, when the
finances are so very low. It is true that the half
yearly dividend has been due these five or fix
months, but it is likewise too true that when
Cardinal Lo mh n ey, Archbishop of Sens, quitted
the administration, not half a million oflivres
were found the treasury. It is a guardian angel;
it is the director general ; it is a Neckar, who
nobis dejundit vivum per tnembra vigorcm, exclaim
ed enthufiaflically, the commons !
june 21. At the moment when France thought
lierfelf happy in the establishment of her RIGHTS
and LIBERTIES, every thing is again thrown
into confufion.
On friday the national aflembly (that is to fay,
tbat part of the states, late called the commons)
had finally voted the provisional grant of taxes,
till the end of the sessions ; the consolidation of
the national debt; a loan for the immediate pay
ment of the arrears due from government : and
confulerable lums of money to be forthwith lent
into the provinces for the relief of the poor at
the fame time the clergy had determined to join
the third estate on the next day, Saturday.
In the morning, at three o'clock, an officer
with sixty men was ported at the door of the as
sembly room, to prevent the entrance of the de
puties ; and at nine o'clock the heralds proclaim
ed a suspension of the meeting till Monday, when
his majerty would go to the house, to receive them.
Ihe president and several members arriving
at their usual hour, and finding the doors shut
against them, remained some time in the llreet
but at length adjourned to the Tennis-court'
and there held their aflembly till late in the even
ing, when they separately took the following
oath:
" WE SOLEMNLY SIVE4R NEVER TO SEPARATE
FROM THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, BUTTOUNITE
OURSELVES IN EVERY PLACE, WHEREVER CIR
CUMSTANCES MAY REQUIRE, UNTIL THE CON
STITUTION IS ESTABLISHED ON A SOLID FOUN
DATION."
" RESO'VED, That this determination (hall be
printed and Cent to the differentprovinces."
At the fame time Monsieur De Gocies, on the
part of the inhabitants of St. Domingo, put the
colonies under the protection of i£ e » 3t ; ,
lembly, and declared that licnceforw, i lf "
would call the, Selves Colonies Nadonales
All Fans is, in the greatelt coiffiernation j
the court under the utmost euibarraflme,,' f
intention of the king in going the houle i i-»
a profound secret ; and the people lr( . rh pt
alarmed, as they fee no reason why r™'
ihould be made, if his design was favoraL "
the other hand, the finnnefs 0 f the a<fanU ' ■"
their proceedings of yeherday,
put the court party under the greatett dilem j
for this evening at fix o'clock, no orders a «7«
given for his niajefty's equipage, norat,v no £
lent to the officers who should attend him t£
general report is, that the king will N „ 'J
the house to-morrow, and that a counter-prod
mat,on will be on the breaking up of the conn il
Every day brings frefh accounts ofthe'diftrl
of the country for want of bread. In the neigh
bourhood of Senlis, Soiflons, Chantilly
is credibly affirmed, that the bakers wirinot'l*
able to furniffi a single loaf at any price .f-
Wednesday. To Paris, Versailles, M ar ii7
not a cart load of flour is brought without the
protection of a guard.
LONDON', JUNE 29.
Received at ten o'clok UJI night, by £ xp rl f l) f m
VERSAILLES.
La Seance Royale, which we formerly announc
ed, took place on Tuesday last, at >vhich time
the king abolished all the arrets entered into by
the tiers etat. Each order of the allbmblj
went separately to their refpecftive chambers, the
etat remaining in their own.—After'the
king's departure, they voted in their own caps
city, a confirmation of the arrets which they had
jull agreed to, notwitliflanding the kino- had
commanded them to be abolished.—They then
fevei-ally took an oath, not to confidcr themselves
as diflolved, although the king had ifl'ued his or
ders for that purpoie !
Immediately after this, Monf. Neckar, the
minifler of finance, went up to the king, and en
treated permillion to resign the seals of kit offici,
This was peremptorily refufed by the sovereign.
On going out of the palace, he was embracedby
the allenibly of the tiers etat, and conduced by
them in a shew of triumph and adoration to his
official apartments.
This proves a llrange revolution in poli.ics—
and, if the phrase can be allowable, wewilladd,
an usurpation of liberty in the very heart of the
latedefpotic capital of France.
Twelve months ago, tiles of mnfqueteers, witli
drawn bayonets, were placed in, and fjrround
ed the courts of justice and houses of parliament
in Paris. At this moment the third and inferior
slate of the kingdom is bidding defiance to arbi
trary power, and the decrees of their sovereign.
This may be tonfidered as a critical epoch in the
history of nations, and France in particular;
whilst famine is haflening to the very gates of
the capital.
Liberty will have another feather in her cap.
The seraphic contagion was caught from Britain,
—it crofled the Atlantic to North America
from whence the flame has been communicated
to France.
July 2. We areaffiired from refpetfableau
thority, that the great controverted qaeltionin
France has received its final determination. The
two superior orders have yielded to the com
mons, in consequence of a letter from the king.
On Saturday lafl, the three orders met and form
ed a liouf£ ; none of the clergy diflenriftg,
of the nobles only forty five ; so that every thing
now is peace and concord without doors.
PRICE CURRENT. NEJV-YORK.
Jamaica Spirits, ... £,[.
Antigua Rum, - / - 4/6. a 4/?.
St. Croix, do. - - 4/5. a 4/6.
Country, do. - - ? / 10 -
MoJaflcs, - a 2/0.
Brandy, - - - 5/9-
Geneva, - 5J3•
Do, in cases, - - 28 fa 2 qJ.
Muscovado Sugar, - - 0 I*f
Loaf, do. - - if \ * y3'
Lump, do. - - V l e*
Pepper, - 2/0. a 2JIO.
Pimento, - 1/9. a V-
Chocolate, - l/ 2.
Cocoa, - - ' 75 f a
Coffee, - - 1/8. * »>
Indigo, (Carolina) - - 4/ a %
Rice, - - - 22/6. -a 2 3jf
Superfine Flour, -
Common do. - - 4°/
Rye do. - 24f- a 2 «5>
Indian Meal, - ,1'
Rye, . . 4/3. fr- hjk
Corn, (Southern) - zf\9- a i/'
Do. (Northern,) - 4/3- * 4 -> r
Beef, fir ft quality, - - 4 V a $ 0 t
Second quality, - - 43/J*
Pork, firft quality, - • Jfc
Sccond quality, - - ' -A'
Hams, . < d \
Carolina Tobacco, - J )
Virginia , - - 4d- a $
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9,
Lane, near the Ofwcgo-Markct, New-York. [3'"/'"