[No. XLVIII.]
the TABLE T—No. XLVIII.
SUBJECT OF NO. 47 CONTINUED.
.< the union of the states should be the first
'• article IN the political creed of every
« AMERICAN."
IN our last we endeavored to Ihew that no politi
cal evil was to be apprehended from the pre
tended diversity of fouthernand eafterninterefts.
_It will be found that there is as little to be ap
prehended from other supposed causes of divi
(ion. The universal freedom in religious mat
ters, which is not only allowed by the govern
ment, but incorporated into the conllitutions of
the States, has rendered the people of this coun
try less liable to discord on that account, than
any other nation. The diversity of manners and
euitonis is becoming less every day. The nation
al government will contribute to hasten this pro
gress, and to fix a standard for manners and lan
guage. The commercial intercourse of the States
is increasing. Nothing unites men more than a
concurrence in Common sentiments and objects of
pursuit. Every American holds liberty nearest
hii heart, and depends on the aid of every other
American to defend it. There is no country
where the people arefo well agreed in their firlt
maxims, or so deeply imprefled with a sense of
the importance of them.
If we consider the state of some of the moll or
derly governments in the world, we iliall find that
they are much less homogeneous than our own.
France is actually divided into several diftin<ft
provinces—and they are Hill more divided by dif
tiad laws and customs, and even by a different
language. We are better acquainted with the
Britiih kingdoms : If the diversity in question it
incompatible with a common government, then
the prosperous state of that country will prove that
there is no such diversity : Yet the fad; is that the
narrow territories of Britain and Ireland are in
habited by a people, in different ftagesof civiliza
tion—who speak several different languages—who
glory in the victories obtained by their ancestors
when mutually lioftile, and whose remembrance
of former injuries is embittered by mutual scorn
and national hatred. Till lately their interests
have been facrificed to commercial monopolies,
and their rights as men abridged by a policy which
continued to be jealous after it had ceased to be
vindidive. Their customs, manners, and princi
ples of government, and religion, are, apparent
ly, the leafl: likely to aflimilate together. The
Scotch Highlanders, the people of the isles, the
Welch, the wild Irilh, and the Englifti, the op
prelled Catholics, the perfccuted Jacobites, the
Difienters and Episcopalians are surely more un
fit le become one people than the citizens of the
Southern and Northern States : Yet all these peo
ple are approximating,and it is a question whether
ia a course of time, not very remote, there will
remain any traces of discrimination. That event
is of the less importance, as, in fa<ft, with all the
supposed diversity of interests and opinions, that
kingdom is one of the inoft profperoU6 and belt
governed of any in the world. It is certain that
it has been believed in that country, and many
seemed to derive a malignant pleasure from the
belief, that the people of America, tho indepen
dent, were so unfortunately circumstanced that
they would not govern themselves. If we did not
know that the paflions and prejudices of men
make them blind to the most obvious truths, we
(hould wonder how Engliflimen could be duped
by an hypothesis which is so abundantly refuted
by their own experience. If the Americans can
not preserve their national government, it is not
because they are too unlike to afiimilate, or that
they want the acutenefs and vigor of mind to per
ceive and establish the principles of a wife go
vernment.
It i 6 because habit, which is nature to an en
lightened people, and is more, is neceflity to an
ignorant one, has not acquired its ordinary autho
rity over the mind. We have been accustomed
todiftincfc, independent governments : We have
not been used to think nationally—to consider
ourselves as an indivisible whole : Other nations
reverence the antiquity of their institutions—-even
those which are oppreflive are borne without re
pining, and almost without pain, because they are
used to bear them : The neck, grown callous, is
■Jo longer galled with the yoke. Antiquity and
Itate craft have involved the powers and princi
ples of government in mystery. The veneration
of the public is heightened by obscurity, and tho
amagiftrate, who should usurp power, would pro
bably be ruined, yet opposition to lawful autho
rity would ltrike the people with horror.
In this country things are on a different foot
ing. w e have seen the beginning of our govern
ment. We have demolished one, and setup ano
ther, and we think without terror of the process.
1 " as neither antiquity, nor mystery. Instead of
&m#c
SATURDAY, September 26, 17^9.
being prote<S:ed, almolt every good man has aid
ed m propping a tottering authority. He has felt
the weight ofhis in dividual strength and counsels.
Government has leaned upon the people, and a
wile and virtuous people have adopted a Consti
tution worthy of themselves. Already it has pro
cured us the refpecSl of Europe. Let us learn to
reverence it as the glory and fafeguard of our
country. Every people has a partial fondnefs for
their own country. National pride and preju
dice are found to be as strong, and unchangeable
in favor of the most wretched terrirory, as of the
lnoft fertile and salubrious.
Tho nature has covered the earth with barren
ness, and the air with pestilence, and tho society
is ft ill more cursed with defjpotifin, the people
will resent reflections on their country, as the
ciueleft of all insults, and will consider an exile
from it as the most deplorable of all misfortunes.
How well thenlhoulda people love their country,
which they govern and nature favors ! Reafonand
time will concur in making the Americans rever
ence and love their government. Before this/hall
be effected, the danger to the national government
will not spring from the diversity of manners,
customs and interests. Almost every event of our
hiitory has contributed something to dispose the
public mind to enthusiasm. The ruin of most re
publics has been caused by fits of honest frenzy,
during which they destroy the pillars of their own
security. The more diverse and hollile the in
terests and opinions of the people are, the lefsare
they all liable at the fame moment to the agency
ot thiscaufe. For inthis cafe, the torrent of en
thusiasm would be confined within the channel
which it might firft take. The ray in palling thro
another medium would be refracted and finally
loft. Opposite and equal forces would destroy
each other. But our people reason and adl so
nearly alike, that they will be heated at the fame
moment. They are all conductors for the ele<!t
rical fluid, which pafles so unaccountably thro the
mind, and communicates so intense an heat in its
paflage.
It is not intended to deduce from hence that
the national government will not endure. It is
merely to expose the fallacy of the opinion, that
we are too unlike, and too much divided in point
of interests to maintain one national government.
This opinion has long been painful to the patri
otism of many sensible men.
It is equally to be hoped that the great extent
of the country, the good sense of the people which
is every day more and more enlightened by sci
ence, and the wife and prosperous administration
of the government will be found fufficient to give
it liability.
AUTHENTIC INFORMATION.
Every Citizen of the Worli—every friend to the rights
oj mankind—and more efptcially every citizen of the
United States, mufl feel int ere fled in the important
Tranfacftions in the Kingdom of France :—The
following authentic and judicious JOURNAL
OF EVENTS, as they transpired from day to day,
at the crifts of the glorious Revoluthn, will afford
our readers a more competent idea of matters, than
ha-s yet been pnblifhed.
Extract of a letter from Paris.
" THE capture of three French merchantfhips
by the Algerines under different pretexts, has
produced great sensation in the seaports of this
country. The scarcity of bread begins to leflen
in the southern parts of France, where the harvest
is commenced : Here it is Hill threatning, because
we have yet two or three weeks to the beginning
of harvest.
" The reunion of the orders took place on the
27th June. Within the Aflembly matters weni
on well ; but it was soon observed that troops,
and particularly the foreign troops, were ontheii
march towards Paris from various quarters, and
that this was against the opinion of Mr. Neckar.
The Marflial de Broglio was appointed to com
mand all the troops within the Isle of France.—
Some of the French guards were soon arrested
under other pretexts, but in reality on account
of their difpofitionsinfavorofthe national cause.
The people of Paris forced the prison, released
them, andfenta deputation to the States General
to folicita pardon. The States by a 1110 ft moder
ate and prudent arrete recommended these pri
soners to the King, and peace to the people of
Paris. Addrefles came in to them from several of
the great cities, expressing sincere allegiance to
the King; but a determined resolution to support
the States General.
" On the Bth of July they voted an address to
the King to remove the troops. This piece of
£.Publifhsd on Wedfisfday and Saturday .J
masculine eloquence, written by M. de Mirase a v
is worth attention. 1 lie King refufes to remove
the troops, and fays they may remove themfelvcs,
if they please, to Noyeos orSoiflons.
9th. They pioceed to fix the order in which
they will take up the several branches of their fu
ture Constitution, from which it appears they
mean to build it from the bottom, confining them
selves to nothing in their ancient form but a King.
A declaration oi rights which forms the firft chap
ter of their work, was then proposed by the Mar
quis de la Fayette —this was on the nth.
" In the mean time troops to'the number of
about 25 or 30,000 had arrived, and were ported
inand between Paris and Versailles. The bridges
and pafleswere guarded. At 3 o'clock in the af
ternoon the Count de la Luzerne wasfenttono
tify Mr. Neckar of his difmiflion—at midnight
he set out tor Bruflells. This was not known till
the next day (12th) when the whole ministry
was changed, except Villepeuij. of thedomeftic
department,and Barentin Garde des Sceaux*
These changes were as follows : The Baron
de Bret e ui l, President of the Council of Finance,
and De la Galaitiere, Comptroller General in
the room of Mr. Neckar—the Marshal de Broc
lio, Minister of War, and Foul on under him
in the rooinof Puy-se g ur—M. deIaVAUGUYON,
Minister of Foreign Affairs,inftead of M.de Mokt
morin—De la Porte Minister of Marine, in
place of the Count de la Luzerne—St. Priest
was also removed from the Council.
" The news of this change began to be known
in Paris about lor 2 o'clock. In the afternoon a
body of about 100 German cavalry were advanced
and drawn up in the place Louis XV. and about
300 Swiss ported at a little distance in their rear.
This drew people to that spot, who naturally
formed themselves in front of the troops, at firft
merely to look at them ; but as their numbers en
creafed, their indignation arose : They retired a
few steps, ported themselves on and behind large
piles of loose stones colle<fied in that place for a
bridge adjacent to it, and attacked the horse with
stones. The horse charged, but the advantage
ous portti on of the people, and the showers of
stones obliged them to retire, and even to quit the
field altogether, leaving one of their number on
the ground. The Swiss in their rear were obfer*
vednever to stir. This was the signal for univer«
sal infurretftion, and this body of cavalry to avoid
being maflacred, retired towards Versailles. The
people now armed themselves withfuch weapons
as they could find in armorer's lhops and private
houses, and with bludgeons, and were roaming
all night, through all parts of the city, without
any decided and practicable obje<ft. The nexc
day (13th) the States press on the King to fend
away the troops—to permit the Bourgeoisie of"
Paris to arm for the prefervatiqn of order in the
city, and offered to fend a deputation from their
body to tranquilize them ; He refufes all their
proportions. A committee of magistrates and
eletfors of the city are appointed, by their bodies,
to take upon them its government. The mob now
openly joined by the French guards, force the
prisons <jf St. Lazare, release all the prisoners,
and take a great store of corn, which they carry
to the corn market : Here they get some arms,
and the b rench guards begin to form and train
them. The city committee determine to raise
48,000 bourgeois, or rather to restrain their num
bers to 48,000.
On the 14th they fend one of their members
(M. de Corney) to the Hotel des Invalides, to
ask arms for their Garde Bourgeoife : He was fol
lowed by, or he found there a great mob : The
Governor of the Invalids came out, and repre
sented the impoflibility of his delivering arms
without the orders of those from whom he receiv
ed them : De Corney advised the people then to
retire, retired hiinfelf, and the people took pof
feflion of the arms. It was remarkable that not
only the invalids themselves made no opporttion,
but that a body of 5000 foreign troops, encamp,
ed within 400 yards, never stirred. M. de Corney
and five others, were then sent to aik arms of m!
de Launai, Governor oftheßaftile: They found
a great collection of people already before the
place, and they immediately planted a flag of
truce, which was answered by a like flag hoisted
on the parapet: The deputation prevailed on the
people to fall back a little, advanced themselves
to make their demands of the Governor, and in
that instant a discharge from the Baftile killed
four people of those nearest to the deputies -
The Deputies retired, the people rushed against
the place, and almost in an instant were in pof»
feflion of a fortification, defended by 100 men, of
infinite strength, which in other times had flood
several regular sieges, and had never been taken.
How they got in has as yet been impoflible to
discover : Those who pretend to have been of theJiarty, tell so many diiFerent stories as to destroy
the credit of them all. They took all the arms,
clifcliarged the prifoners,-and fuchofthegarrifon
as were not killed in the firft moment of fury,
can ied the Governor and Lieut. Governor to the
Greve (the place ofpublic execution) cut off their
heads, and lent them through the city in triumph
to the Palais lloyal.
About the fame instant a treacherous corres
pondence having been discovered in M. de Fles-
Selles, Prevoil des Marchands, they seize him
in the hotel de ville, where he was in the exercise
of his office, and cut off his head. These events
carried imperfectly to Versailles were the fubjet't
of two l'ucceliive deputations from the States to
the King, (i jrh.) The King went about 11 o'clock,
accompanied only by his brothers to the States
General, and there read to them a fpeech,in which
he asked their interposition to re-eltablifh order
he i eturned to the Chateau a foot, accompanied
by the States : They sent offa deputation,the Mar
quis de la Fayette at their head, to quiet Paris :
He had the fame morning beennamed Command
ant en chef of the milice bourgeoife, and Mons.
BaillY , former President of the Stares General
was called sos as Prevoft des Merchands. The
demolition of tlii Baftile was now ordered and
began : A body of the Swiss guards of the regi
ment of Ventimille, and thecity horse guards
join the people : The alarm at Versailles encrea
ies instead of abating : The foreign troops were
ordered offinftantly : Every Minister resigned :
The King confirmed Bailly as Prevoft des Mar
chands, wrote to Mr. Neckar to recall him—
ient his letter open to the States General to be
forwarded by them, and invited them to go with
him to Paris the next day to fatisfy the city ofhis
dispositions. (r6th.) The King came to Paris.
Omiting the less important figures of the pro
ceflion, I will only observe that the King's car
riage was in the centre, on each fide of it the
States General in two ranks afooN-at their head
the Marquis de la Fayette as Commander in
Chief, on horseback, and Bourgeois guards before
and behind. About 60,000 citizens of all Forms
and colors, armed with the muskets of the Baftile
and Invalids as far as they would go—the reft
with pistols.swords, pikes, pruning hoSks, feythes
&c. lined all the streets through which the pro
ceflion pafled. The King landed at the Ho'el de
Ville—there M. Bailly presented and put into
his hat the popular cockade, and addrelled him
and delivered his answer to the audience. On
their return the popular cries were " VIVE LE
RO\ , ET LA NAT lON : He was conduced by
a garde Bourgeoife to his palace at Versailles.—
Letters written with his own hand to the Marquis
de la Fayette, remove the scruples ofhis position.
Tranquility is now restored to the capital : The
shops are again opened : The people resuming
their labors, and if the want of bread does not
disturb our peace,we may hope a continuance of
it.
The demolition of the Baftile is going on, and
the milice Bourgeoife organizing and training
The ancient police of the city is abolished by the
authority of the people.—They believe still that
people have fallen vidtims to the tumults of
Paris.—We cannot find with certainty that any
body has been killed but the three before men
tioned, and those who fell in the aflault or defence
of the Baftile. How many of the garril'on were
killed no body pretends to have ever heard :
Of the aflailants, accounts vary from 6 to 600
the moll general belief is, that there fell about
thirty. Therehave been many reports of instan
taneous executions by the mob, 011 such of their
body as they caught in atfts of theft or robbery :
Some oftliefe may perhaps be true : There was
a severity of honesty obfervedof which 110 exam
ple has been known : Bags of money offered on
various occaftons, through fear or guilt have been
uniformly refufed by the mobs.—The churches
are now occupied in singing " DeProfundis" and
" Requiems for the r-pofe of the fouls of the brave and
" valiant citizens ixihohave fealednbith their blood the
" liberty ef the nation." M. de Montmorin is
thisday replaced in the department of Fo
reign Affairs, M. de St. Priest is named to the
Home Department. (21ft.) M. Neckar had
left Bruflels for Franckfort before the Courier <rot
there—We expert, however, to hear of him in a
day or two. M. le Comte de IaLuzERNE has re
sumed the department of the Marine this day.
The spirit of tumult seemed to have sub
sided, when yesterday it was excited again by a
particular incident : M. Foullon, one of the
obnoxious ministry, who, as well as his brethren
had abfcor.ded, was taken ill the country, and as
isfaid bv his own tenants, and brought to Paris.
Great efforts were exerted by popular ib*i a(fters
to favehim : He was at length forced out of the
hands of the garde Bourgeoife, hung immediate
ly, his head cut off, and his body drawn through
ihe principal streets of the city. The Intendant
of Paris, M. de Chauvigny, accused of having
entered into the designs of the fame ministry, has
been taken at Compeigne, and a body of 200 men
011 horseback are goniTfor him.
I jull now learn that Bertie r de Chauvigny
was brought to town in the night, and mafiacred
immediately."
PARIS, JULY 30.
In flie storming of"the Baftile, the Governor,
the door-keeper, with two or three others, were
maflacred. Mr. Foullon, Intendant, has been
kept three days, with 110 other food but hay
betore hini, and afterwards was hanged by the
populace at one of the cords which suspend the
rcverbcres (lights) in the streets. The particu
larity of the hay put before Mr. Foullon, comes
from an answer he made a few days since : Being
told the people had 110 bread, he replied, " Lei
them cat hay." He is the fame who had pro
posed to emit 100 millions, tournois, in paper
money. Ihe Lieutenant de police, of Paris,
has been hanged ; as well as Madame de Polignac's
[the Queen s favorite] chambermaid. TheCcmte
d Auois, M. de Polignac, and hundreds more
have fled. All the country is in arms, the peo
ple having broken open all the arsenals in the
kingdom. \Ve are here under military duty,
wearing the cockade of Union, white, rose, and
blue. Unwilling to fuffer any troops in the town,
we have done more, we have fired from the settees
upon a small veflel bringingfome artificers : We
will not fuffer any soldiers.
The National Allenibly received a long letter
in English yelterday, from that mad bigot, Lord
George Gordon.
M. Neckar arrived at Versailles on Tuesday evening last, and
this morning he came to the Hotel de Ville, where he was re
ceived will, every mark of joy and fatisfaflion. He wasefrortcd
from the bridge at Save by a large party of horse of the Pans mi-
A' ZA ° rcturncd W'h him to the fame piece.
On I uefday last the Marquis de la Fayette performed thece
remony of incorporating the French Guards, under the appella
which they,re henceforwardTo'be
-p, c. . , tONDON, JULY 31.
I lie ipinted proceedings of the Statas General
and the Parisians, had their effetft. The Minis
ters and advisers of the King trembled in the palace.
From Bcnjancon we learn, that on the news of M Neckar's
Z j | C '. «t"[' tSOf tHat lar K c town, the feat of a parliament
» Colfcll 7 J n V b> ' " P ' jbl,C seast ' whcnM "
V in u Parl 'ament, offered his country feat, near
Vafon, lor that purpose. Ahont forty or fifty of the principal
dav w m Jw,/ " 1 a " d ' thc niidft ° f th< " fdlivil V "f the
J if k tnto thc a ' r > b Y means of fever a 1 barrels of
rnZ A r 'n sheen previouflv placed in thc apartment
under the saloon, for the abov, ; horrid purpose. The explXn
was h»ad for several miles dirtantfrom the tragical scene and thev
were all e,therk,lied or Ihockinglybruifed. * ' ey
an n ,r, mCan , ,lrae ' ,' hc rnafterof 'he house had disappeared
and the enraged populace flocked to the spot, and leveled the
dl " many —*-££
dirTfli Na "°" al Assembly immediately addreffedtheKing to give
h ered u n : ,he , Amba^do " - the *veral Courts, to get h.n/de!
thathenf h,K VCrC j UUtrV hem 'g ht take "fugr, in order
to his e conveyed to Pans, to receive the punilhment due
to nis enofmous chitoe.
and generally credited, in the French houses
ft night that Prince Lambafc had been pursued by the popu-
Jace, and burnt in Ins carriage. k
It was fa id that the Queen and the Dauphin had retired to the
convent of Valde Grave.
Among the fluctuating reports of last night, one was, that the
fdT t /\ T °v j dq "' ttcdßru(r ' ,s ' and hid solemnly erect
ed the Royal Standard, in French Flanders ; that he was attended by
the Prince deCoNDE, the Duke de Bourbon, and many othei
eminent perfotiages ; and that the Marffial de Broglio had join
ed him with a small body of forces which he hadcollefted, and
was looked up to as second in command, and the man who was
to model their forces, which were hourly encreafing.
w Th i? ?°j m , WaS , further f » id to have publifficd a manifeflo, in
which he declares his intention to be folelv direfled to the pub
, the , rcfculn g, h »s from the hands of
thole Rebels who now detain him."
This repoit we considered as too important to pass over, at the
lame time wc can not vouch for its authenticity.—At a late hour
'ait night no official account was received.
; Extrafl of a Icttei from Cibraltar, June 8.
Yesterday the Portuguese Iquadron brought in a lar»e French
(hip of 500 tons, from Martmico, laden with coffee, f u(: ar
cotton, indigo, &c. for Merfailles, which they retook from an
Algerine coifair, after a smart engagement, off Algiers. The
torce of the latter is not mentioned; but she escaped, tho the
Iquadron confifls of a ship of the line of eighty guns, a sri
gate, a cutter and a brig. Being refufed fheker here, on account
of the plague at Aiglets, having thirteen Algennes on board
Ihcy proceeded immediately with their prize to Lisbon."
The letter which follows was addressed by the Prime Minifler
f Denmark, to thc Danish Consul General at Leghorn, and dated
1 he 23d of May.
" Si R ,
" It is with peculiar fatisfaflion I aw able to inform you, that
Denmai k. will in 110 wife be intcrefted in the present war and
her neutrality is absolutely admited, so that her flag will enjoy
the lame advantages as in times of profound peace.—l
will cause this information to be made public throughout the
country in which you reside, for the purpose of removing doubts
which might make the navigators of our own nation, and all her
merchants and underwriters in general, afraid to have anv con
cern 111 ventures under our flag. I am, &c.
BERNSTORF.'
Tippo Sultan continues to augment and discipline his forces
This rcfllefs Prince is preparing a florm, which will soon buifloa
the Carnatic.
Thediffention which has for a longtime subsisted between Lord
Corawallis and Sir Archibald Campbell, i, the cause that the lat
ter resigned a situation which he could not honorably hold con
intent with his own feelings.
I"he officers ofthe Eafl India (hips, in general, who have lately
arrived from Bengal, complained that the trade there is entirely
mined. The articles of merchandize which formerly fetched
eighty and a hundred per cent, they were glad to d.fpofe of at
hve and twenty per cent, under prime cost. This, they lay, is oc
casioned by the heavy taxes which the Governor General has impof
<d upon .hops, and upon every species of merchandize ; and flill
m °'l By the vexatious severity with which those taxes are exacted.
The Lngl.fh merchants, harrafled and difgulled with those pro
ceedings, are felling ofi their goods, and (hutting up their flrops
as fact as possible. At the sales in Bengal, avticles of English man
ufactories are now fold 5 o per. cent, cheaper than in Britain.
He has alio thought fit to enforce even among the Hindoos, a
lud.cal observation of the Sabbath day; in consequence of which
thcr of°dlenc n f"! ;VeS '° nUmCr ° US h ° l,da >' s a "°-
NEW-YORK,
. PROCEEDINGS OF CO NCR ESS
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES
T1 ~^ EDNESDA *> SEPTEMBER 23
Ine bill to recognize and adant- , .
ftitution of the United States, the eftablfo C ° n "
of the troops on the frontiers wns k ' nent
engrofled and palled. ' 35 brou ght in,
The appropriation bill -was taken i,„ • l
committee of the whole, amended a „J e
to by the House. Ordered, that it be enSJ
and ioo copies of the estimates; on whfch th'
b,U is founded,be printed for the use of the Men'
Mr. Bland presented a bill to amend anrt
plain the coasting art, which was read a firft an j
and second time. n "tand
The bill for altering the time of the ann,„i
meeting of Congress, was revised in commin
a^rtdto 016 Vv fn ' ft J 3 -" S
rhlw < c ! S anlendmen t was admitted br
the House after the committee rose, and the bin
ordered to be engrofled.
1 •,w mCfI t SC fr T the presi dent, with the salary
biU for the Judicial Department, was received
with his approbation and signature.
k-,T!? e Houf< ; theu went into a committee on the
bill for regulating procefles in the courts of the
journed S " " £ oin S throu g h the fame, ad
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24.
The engrofled bill to explain and amend the
CoaihngAdt, was read a third time and pallid the
House. r
I he engrofled bill making appropriations for
the services of the present year, was read and re.
committed.
Mr. Gerry, of the committee appointedto pre
pare ah estimate of the produce of the Import
and Tonnage for one year, brought in a report-
It states that from the imperfection of there
turns of the imports, exports and tonnage,receiv.
Ed from the several States, the committee wasnot
able to furnilli a perfectly accurate account.—
The report estimates the nett produce of impost
and tonnage of the feyeral States, as follows—
Dollars. Cents.
New-Hampfliire, 21,491 —83
Maflachufetts, 199,261 — 4J
Connecticut, 72,450—17
New-York, 245,316—96
New-Jersey, 10,514—44
Pennlylvania, 361,405—234
Delaware, " 5,654—94
Maryland, 211,539—83
Virginia, 186,470—33^
South-Carolina, 144,830 —S3
Georgia, 8,141-42
1,467,086 —3 Amount of
nett produce of impost and tonnape.—Laid on
the table.
The report of the committee of conference
on the fubjectof amendments to the Constitution
was taken up : The committee advise to a con
currence in the amendments of the Senate, with
some amendments.—One of which was, " Tit
trial of all crimej Jhall be by a jury of the dijlrttt in
which the crime was committed"—this was further
amended by inserting the words State and imme
diately before " dijlrift." On the question for
agreeing to the clause as amended, the Ayes and
Noes were called for by Mr. Bland, and are as
follow.
AYES. Mejfrs. Ames, Baldwin, Benfon, Boudinot, Brown,
Cadwallader, Carroll, Clymer, Contee, Fitzfimons, Fuller, Gale,
Gilman, Goodhue, Griffin, Hartley, Lee, Leonard, Madison,
Moore, P. Muhlenberg, Parker, Partridge, Schureman, Scott, Se
ney, Sherman, Sylvcfter, Sinnickfon, Smith, (M.) Smith, (S. C.)
itone, Thatsher, Trumbull, Vining, White, Wynkoop. 37-
NOES. Mejfrs. Bland, Burke, Coles, Floyd, Gerry, Grout,
Hathorn, Jackson, Livermore, Matthews, Page, Van Ranfeliaer,
Sumpter, Tucker. 14.
1 he House voted to reconsider the firft article
in their amendments, so far as to strike out the
word " less" and inlert the word more—so that
the article now reads, " there lliall not be mtrt
than one representative for every jo,ooo persons.
These amendments being agreed to —
Mr. Madison proposed a resolution, that the
President of the United States be requeftedto
transmit to the Executives of the several States
which have ratified the Constitution, copies °t
the amendments, also, to the Slates of Rhode"
Island and North-Carolina—this was agreed to-
A committee consisting of Mr. Fitzfmons, Mr-
Smith, (M.) and Mr. Baldwin, was appointedto
ascertain the amount of the compensations due to
the members and officers of the House, and the
contingent charges of the present feflion.
In committee of the whole, on the bill niak'njj
appropriations for the present year. —The hi
proposes the following appropriations,,viz-
Civil Lift, . 208,676 "
Department of War, - - 1 37>5°3 3"
Towards discharging warrantsjidued by the late > 53,463
Superintendant of Finance, remaining unfatisfied, )
Towards discharging warrants iflued by the / 189,906 3®
late Board of Treasury, remaining unfatisfied, )
Towards paying the pensions of Invalids, %'°C] irP'
It was moved, that the two articles for di.e 1 S
ing warrants should beftruck out, which was cried. The committee then rose, and the chair
man reported the bill, which it was ordered
jhould lie on the table.
A meilage was received from the President of
the United States, with the bill for allowing
compensations to the President and Vice Presi
dent, to which lie has been pleased to affix his ap
probation and signature.
A meflage was received from the Senate inform
ing the House, that the Prelident has returned
to the Senate the Judiciary Art, and the Refolvc
for the fafe keeping of prisoners in the goals of
the several States, both of which has received his
approbation and signature.
In committee of the whole, on the bill for
making provision for the Invalid Penlionersof the
United States—The committee having conlider
ed the fame, rose, and the bill was re-committed.
In committee of the whole, on the bill for re
gulating procelles in the Judicial Courts.
° This "bill propofesthat writs and procefles shall
ifl'ue in the name of the President of the United
States.
Mr.SroNE moved,that " the President of" should
be {truck out. —This was carried in the affirmative.
A clause was propofod for insertion, by which
debtors should be enabled to avail themlelves of
theinfolvent a(fts extant in the refpeiftive States.
—This was negatived by a large majority.—
The adoption of this clause was urged by Mr.
Burke, and Mr. Jac.kson, from'the peculiar situa
tion of persons indebted to Britiih and other fo
reign merchants.
The committee having gone through the bill,
and agreed to sundry amendments, rose, and the
chairman reported the fame—which were imme
diately taken up in the Houfe.—Thefirft amend
ment being read, refpetfting linking out the
" the President of"—Mr. Benson objertedto it,
and from a variety of considerations enforced the
propriety of retaining the words in the bill
This opposition to the amendment! produced a
warmpnd animated debate—And the question for
agreeingto it was finally determined by Ayes and
Noes as follow—
AYES. Mcjfrs. Bland, Burke, Coles, Contce, Floyd,
Gerry, Griffin, Giout, Hartley, Hathorn, Heifter, Jackson, Lee,
Irvermore, Mudifon, Matthews, Moore, Muhlenberg, Parker,
Scott, Seney, Stone, Sumpt'er, Tucker, White. 25.
NOES. Ames, Baldwin, Benfon, Clymer, Fitzfkmons,
Foster, Gale, Gilman, Goodhue, Lawrance, Leonard, Partridge,
Sherman, Silvester, Sinnickfon, Thatcher, Vining, Wynkoop. 18.
The other Amendments being acceded to, it
was ordered that the bill be engrofled for a third
reading to-morrow. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25.
The House took up the bill for making appro -
priations for the services of theprefent year.
The amendment proposed in committee of the
whole, by striking out the fuin appropriated for
the discharge of warrants, iflued by the late Su
perintendant of Financfe, was agreed to by the
House.
The next amendment proposed, by striking
out the sum appropriated for the discharge of
warrants iflued by the late Board of Treafiiry,
\vas dilagreed to.
The bill was then pafled to be engrofled for a
third reading.
The report of the committee on the memorial
of John White, late Continental Commilfioner
of Accounts, was taken up, and a resolution pall
ed in favor of the memorialist.
The engrofled bill for making appropriations
was brought in, and pafled to be enacted.
Mr. Boudinot introduced a motion to the
following purport—Refolved,that a joint commit
tee of both Houses be appointed to wait 011 the
President of the United States, torequeft that he
would be pleased to recommend a day of public
thanksgiving and prayer, to be observed by the
people of the United States, to acknowledge the
lavors bellowed upon them by Almighty God,
especially by affording them an opportunity
peaceably to eftabli(h a form of Goverinent cal
culatedto promote their prosperity and happiness.
This was adopted, and a committee appointed
eonfifting of Mr. Boudinot, Mr.Sherman and
Mr. Silvester.
A bill to provide for the payment of the mili
tary invalids was read a firft and second time, and
ordered to be engrofled.
The report of a committee was read, to whom
was referred the several petitions which had lain
011 the table—These petitions the committee re
commended should be refered to the several de
partments to whose cognizance they Specially be
long; the heads of which are to report thereon.
A meflage was received from the Senate, with
the amendments to the constitution as laftamended
by the House, in which the Senate has concurred.
Alfo,the bill for altering the time of the annu
al meeting of Congress—Concurred.—Also, the
bill to regulate procefles in the Courts of the Uni
ted States—The Senate concur in all the amend
ments proposed by the House to this bill except
the firft.—This amendment was to strike out the
words " The President of. " —lt was moved that
jhe House should adhere to their amendment.
This occasioned a debate—when the Ayes and
Noes being demanded, were as follow —
AYES.
Mejfrs. Bland, Boudinot, Brown, Burke, Carrol,
Coles, Contee, Floyd, Gerry, Grout, Hartley,Ha
thorn,Heifter, Jackson, Lee,Livermore,Madifon,
Mathews, Moore, P. Muhlenberg,Page, Parker,
Van Renlellaer, Seney, Stone, Sumpter, Tucker,
White. 28.
NOES.
Ames, Benfon, Cad wailader,Clymer,Fitzfi
111011s, Foster, Gale, Gilman, Goodhue, Law
ranee, Leonard, Partridge, Schurenian, Scott,
Sherman, Silvelter, Sinnickfon, Thatcher, Trum
bull, Vining, Wadfworth, Wynkoop. 22.
Adjourned till 9 o'clock tomorrow.
BOSTON, SEPT. 9.
PROGRESS Of MANUFACTURES.
In noticing theprogrefs of manufactures in the
United States, it ought not to be omitted, that Mr.
Wetherle, of this town, has lately erected at
Dedham, Works for the Manufacture of Wire,
&c. which promise to be advantageous. We also
mention, that from native ore, which Mr. Robert
Pope, of this town, manufactured into Wire,
that ingenious artist has made a number of the
true kerby Codho'.ks, which have been pronounced
by gentlemen of Marblehead and Cape-Ann to be
greatly superior to any imported : Numbers of
them were used the late season, and Mr. Pope has
orders to manufacture a quantity fufficient for the
next.
A few years since there was not a Paper-Mill in
Connecticut—now there is annually manufattur
ed there, above 5000 reams, besides pasteboard,
&c. In this State, mills are continually erecting.
Fivethoufand yards of Cloth have been manu
factured in Hartford manufactory, from Sept. 1,
178s, to Sept. 1, 178^ —some of which has fold for
five dollars pr. yard.
Very handfoine Waistcoat Patterns, of fine lea
ther, have lately been manufactured here, and
promise, from their neatness, strength, and the
durability of the colors, to be much worn.
WESTERN POSTS.
We have it from good authority, that THE
PRESIDENT of the United States has lately dif
patclied Capt. Guion, formerly of the American
Artillery, to Canada, to inquire of Lord Dor
chester, whether he has orders to surrender to
the United States, the Pofls within the territory
thereof, now garrisoned by Britijb forces ; and if
he has not, that he write to Europe, that he be
immediately furnifhed therewith. This intelli
gence, if authentic, of which we have not a doubt,
mult give great fatisfaiTtion to the people of the
United States, who have too long lamented that
the weaknefsof their government fubjecfted them
not only to a national indignity, but to a very great
loss in their fur and other trades. In the potent
arm of the Executive they now reft their hopes.
, [MaJJachufetts Ccntincl.']
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER 26.
It is expe&ed that Congress will adjourn this
day, to meet the beginning of January. —May
America never fee a less enlightened, patriotic,
and independent Legislature :—lt is but jurt to
observe, tuat pun«fluality and constancy have
marked their attendance at the hours of business
— that patience, perseverance, and dignity, have
distinguished their labors in the public service—
and candor, liberality, and free disquisition pre
sided in their debates. The public mind appears
to be tranquilized, and waiting with calmnefsthe
operation of the laws, that have been ena»fied—
And if an attention to the rights and privileges
of the people, united to a concern for the energy
and honor of the peopti's ovin Conjlitution, can en
sure the confidence of the States, there is the
faireft profpeift of the Government's being rooted
in the affections of the citizens of America.
Thecitizens of New-York wish the honor
able Legislature all possible happiness,
and that on their return to their Constituents,
they may be kindly accepted by the multitude of their
brethren, which, next to conscious approbation, is
the higlieft reward of patriotism.
THE CONTRAST.
FROM hoftilc fields, -where mercy prostrate lies,
We {bout returning victors to the flues ;
But patriot Sages, (kill'd in arts of peace,
Whose godlike labors, happiness encreafe,
Too often find, that where they merit fame,
The blasts of envy echo to their name.
What a train of pleasing ideas rulhes upon the
mind of every American, in contemplating the ef
fects of the late glorious Revolution. With ref
pe<st to our own countrymen,there is no doubt that
a conscious dignity pervades the bosom of every
freeman, to which in our dependent State they
were strangers : When we call our eyes West
ward, Northward, and Southward, we behold a
boundless theatre, on which a numerous race of
happy and enlightened citizens, are to exult in all
the bleflings of Liberty and good Government-
Virtue, Science, and Peace unite their beneficent
influences to render the prefmt andfuture condi
tion of human nature, more eligible than it has
ever been in any former period :—Europe from
America has caught the sacred flame of Freedom :
It has kindled in to a blaze—it has illuminated
their darkness, and where tyranny eretfted hen
throne, and bigotry, ignorance, and fuperflation
supported her in fernal reign, the fun of a glorious
day has arifeii—and Liberty rejoices in the divine
light and resplendent beamsi
"The foundations of tyranny are laid in igno
rance ; and the superstructure is supported by
the fame means—knowlege and freedom go hand
in hand.—The Hate of darkness in which the
eastern world has long been plunged, has pre
vented many of those kingdoms from lucceeding
in their efforts to obtain the just rights of human
nature. In modern times, if the resistance of
the people to the tyrants that oppress them,
should prove unfuccefsful, it vill generally be
found owing to traitors among tliemfelves ; and
the danger from this quarter arises from the too
general want of all principle, and the predomi
nant love of money among all ranks of people.
Factio v, properly speaking, is the offspring
of disappointment, pride, inordinate ambition,
and the whole train of the malevolent paflions :
Its objeel is in the firlt place the promotion of its
own individual advantage, without any regard
to thatof the community at large : To attain this
obje<S, there are no considerations, however sa
cred, which will not be facrificed—characters will
be defamed—meafures reprobated—jealousies ex
cited, and the public confidence in their rulers
will be aflailed, and destroyed if pollible—till its
views are aecomplifhed : When self is not the
prime motive to faction, a vindictive spirit of re
venge often designates its baneful manoeuvres—
disappointed in its aspiring ambitious schemes, it
precipitates its votaries into all the excefles of a
wild, blind, and implacable enmity to its fuccefs
ful rivals,and nothing lhort of involving the body
politic in that anarchy and confufion which may
afford a favorable opportunity to carry its designs
into execution, will check the progress of its ac
cursed machinations.
Ex trad of a letter from a gentleman in Ireland.
" During the months of May and June last,
nine or ten American veflels have failed from
Belfaft, Newry and Derry, chiefly bound to the
Delaware and New-York, and took with them
upwards of two thoufande-z\ igrants from the north
of Ireland, almost the whole of them firfl: advanc
ing their paflage money, and not going out as
redemptioners, as was heretofore the cafe—ma
ny hundred ufeful artizans and tradesmen went
in tliefe veflels ; and such was the ardor of the
people of the north of Ireland to get to America,
that there was a great overflow for eachfhip, and
some were even disappointed in getting paflages
for want of more American veflels to take them,
for it is a well known fact they will not go out in
any Irilh veflel, or with an Irish captain, when
an American offers, from a supposed better treat
ment from the latter."
THEATRICAL.
The highly raised expectations of the public
drew a crouded audience to the Theatre on Thurs
day evening; nor were those expectations dis
appointed, The entertainment was various,novel,
animated, and entertaining : The performers ex
erted tliemfelves with uncommon spirit, and were
rewarded with unequivocal marks of applause and
approbation.
ARRIVALS. NEW YORK.
IVcdneJday Sloop Amphion, Barry, Montego Bay, 31 days,
Sloop Trial, Barnard, Port au Prince, 31 do,
Schooner Peggy, Doddy, Charleston, 12. do.
Brig Cato, Gardiner, Hamburg. 77 do.
Brig Maria, Coffin, Cape Francois, 17 do.
Thttrfday Snow Polly & Nanc), Skinnerj Liverpool, 70 do.
Schooner Sydney. Todd, St. Martins, 24 do.
Sloop Catherine, Snell, Charleston, 12 days.
PRICE CURRENT. NEW-YORK.
Jamaica Spirits, -
Antigua Rum, -
St. Croix, do. - - 4/6.
Country, do. - - 2/10.
Molasses, - - - 2J2. a 2/1.
Brandy, ...
Geneva, - - . s y£.
Do. in cases, - - 2 8/T
Muscovado Sugar, - _ 7 a 7 2/I
Loaf, do. - -
Lump, do. - .
Pepper, ... Sr.
Pimento, ... i/g. a s\f.
Chocolate, - 1 y 2 _
Coa)a, ... lb r a gor
c °ffee, - . 1/8. a lfg.
Indigp, (Carolina) - . 4 f a (,r
Rice, . . -84f. a 23\r
Superfine Flour, - - _ r
Common do. „ . 43 / a 45/;
Rye do. 2 bf. a 2yf.
Indian Meal, - jg \r
p ye ' , c , . "49f fr■ ks
- (Southern) - f
Do. (Northern,) . i f 3. a aJ'6.
Beef, firft quality, . . 4 g\J\ a &0 r
Second quality, . . 4l y* b .
Pork, firft quality, . . 81/6.
—r-r- Second quality, - - 76/6.
Carolina Tobacco, « a
Virginia , . . ±d. a 5 dCONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES.
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Wednesday the Fourth
of March, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Nine.
An ACT for registering and clearing VESSELS,
Regulating the COASTING-TRADE, and for
other purposes.
Be it enafled by the Senate and House oj Reprefintathes of the United
States of America in Congress ajfembled, That any {hip or vessel built
within the United States, and belonging wholly to a citizen or
citizens thereof, or not built within the United States, but on
the sixteenth day of May, one thousand seven hundred and eighty
nine, belonging, and thereafter continuing to belong wholly to a
citizen or citizens thereof, and of which the master is a citizen of
the United States, and no other, may be registered in manner here*
inafter provided, and being so registered, lhallbe deemed and tak
en to be, and denominated, a (hip or vessel of the United States, and
entitled to the benefits granted by any law of the United States*
to ships or vessels ot the descriptions aforefaid.
Sec. 2. Andbeit further enabled, That the person or persons
claiming property in any such ship or veflel, in order to entitle
her to the benefits aforefaid, shall cause the fame to be registered
and lhall obtain a certificate of such registry from the collector of
the diftrift to which such ship or vessel belongs, in manner here
inafter directed, which certificate, attested by the secretary of
the treafurv, under his hand and seal, and counterfigncd by the
collector, shall be in the form following, viz.
41 IN pursuance of an ast of the Congress of the United States
of America, entitled, " An ast for registering and clearing vessels,
regiilating thecoafting trade, and for other purposes," [hereinfert
the name, occupation and residence of the subscribing owner] hav
ing taken and fubfCfibed the oath or affirmation required by said
ast, and having sworn or affirmed, that he together with [names,
occupation and residence of non-fubferibing owners} is (or are)
sole owner (or own rs) of the (hip (or vessel) called the [{hip's
name] of ["place to which the ship or vessels belongs} whereof [maf
ter'sname] is at present master, and is a citizen of the United
States, and that the said ship (or vessel) was [[when and where built J
and [name of surveying officer] having certified to us, that the
Jaid ship or vessel, has [number of decks] and marts, that her
length is her breadth
her depth and that she
measures tons, that {he is [here is described
the vessel and how built] has gallery and
head : And the said subscribing owners having consented and a
greed to the above description and measurement, and having
caused fufficient security to be given as is required by the said ast,
the said [kind of vessel and name] has been duly registered at the
port of Given under our handl and seals of
office, at [port] this day of in
the year [words at full length.] And the said colleftorfhall trans
mit to the secretary of the treafurv a duplicate of every such cer
tificate so granted. And it shall be the dut, of the fecretafy of
the treasury to transmit to the collectors of the several ports of
the United States, a fufficient number of certificates attested under
his hand and seal, leaving the blanks to be filled up by the col
lectors refpeftively.
Sec. 3. And be it further ena fled, That to ascertain the tonnage
of all ships or vessels, the surveyor or other person appointed
by the collector to measure the fame, shall take the length of
every vessel, if double decked, from the forepart of the main
stem, to the after part of the stern post above the upper deck, the
breadth at the broadest part above the main wales, and half such
breadth shall be accounted the depth of every double decked ves
sel; he shall then deduct from the length three-fifths of the breadth,
multiply the remainder by the breadth, and the product by the
depth, dividing the product of tne whole by ninety-five, the quo
tient shall be deemed the true contents or tonnage of such ship or
vessel. To ascertain the tonnage of every single decked vessel, he
shall take the length and breadth, as directed to be taken for dou
ble decked vessels, and deduct three-fifths in like manner, and
the depth from the under fide of the deck plank to the ceiling in
the hold, and shall multiply and divide as aforefaid, and the
quotient shall be deemed the true contents or tonnage of such sin
gle decked vessel.
Sec. 4. And be itfurther enafled, That the port to which any such
ship or vessel fhallbe deemed \o belong, agreeably to the intent and
meanings of this ast, shall be the port at or near which the hufhand
or acting and managing owner or owners of such ship or vessel usu
ally resides or reside : And the name of such ship or vessel, and the
place to which she belongs shall be painted on her stern, on a
black ground with white letters of not lei's than three inches in
length.
Sec. 5. And be it further enafled, That no ship or vessel owned
in whole or in part by any citizen of the United States, usually
residing in any foreign country, shall duringthe time he shall con
tinue foto reside, be deemed a vessel of the United States, entitled
to be registered by virtue of this ast, unless he be agent for, and
partner in, some house or co-partnership, consisting of citizens of
the United States.
Sec. 6. And be it further enafled. That no registry fhillbe made
or certificate granted, until the following oath or affirmation be
taken and fubferibed, before the officer herein before authorised
to make such registry and grant such certificate, {which oath or af
firmation such officer is hereby empowered to administer) by the
owner of fueh ship or vessel, if owned by one person only, or in cafe
there shall be two or more owners, then by any oneof such owners
namely, " I of [place of residence and occupa
tion] dofwear oraffirm, that the ship or vessel
of [take the description from the cer
tificate of the surveyor or other person authorised by this aft] was
built-at in the year
or was the entire property of on
the sixteenth day of May one thousand seven hundred and eighty
nine, and hath continued to be the property of a citizen or citi
zens of the United States, that the
present master, is a citizen of the United States, and that I,
ancf [the other owners names, occupa
tion, and where they reside, viz. town, place, county and state,
or if refidentSn a foreign country, being an agent for, or partner
in any houle or co-partnership] am or are sole owner 6r owners
of the said ship or vessel, and that no other person whatever hath
any property therein, and that I the said
[and the other owners if any] am or are truly a citi
zen or citizens of the United States, and that no foreigner, direct
ly or indirectly, hath any part or interest in the said ship or vene!.'-'
Sec. 7, Provided always, and be it further enafled, That when
ever the owner or owners of such ship or vessel, ulually resides or
reside out of the diftrift within which such ship orveffel maybe
at the timeof granting the certificate of registry, that such owmr,
or where there are two or more owners, any one of them may
take and fubferibe the said-oath or affirmation, before the col
lector of the diftrift within which he usually resides, omitting in
the said oath or affirmation the description of such ship or vessel
as expressed in the certificate of the surveyor, and inserting in
Jieu thereof, ihe name of the port and diftrift within which such
ship or vessel may then be; and the coHeftor before whom such
o.nh or affirmation may be taken and fubferibed, shall transmit
the fame to the collector of the diftrift where such ship or vessel may
be, upon the receipt whereof the said colleftorfhall proceed to re
gister such ship or vessel, in like mamner as though the usual and re
gular oath or affirmationhad been taken and fubferibed before him.
Sec. 8. Andbeit further enafled, That the surveyor or other
person, to be appointed in pursuance of this ast, shall, previous
to the registering or granting of any certificate of registry, as afore
faid, examine and measure such ship or vessel, as to all and every
particular contained in the form of the certificate aforefaid, ihthe
prefenci of the matter, or any other person to be appointed for
that purpose on the part of the owner or owners, and shall deliver
a just and true aceount in writing of the built, description
and measurement of every such ship or veflel as are fpecifud in the
form of the certificate above recited, to the person authorised as
aforelaid, to make such registry and grant such certificate thereof;
and the said mailer or other perlon attending on the part of the
owner or owners, is hereby required to sign his name also to the
certificate of the surveying or examing officer, or other person duly
appointed, in testimony of the truth thereof, provided such mal
ter or other person, shall agree to the fevefal particulars therein
set forth and described. f
Sec. g. And be it further enabled, That when the certificate of
registry aforefaid (hall be granted, fufficient security by bond,
shall be given to the collector in behalf of the Urtited States, by
the master and owner or owners, or by some other person or per
lons on his, her or their behalf, such security to be approved of
by the collector, in the penalties following, that is to fay ; if such
ship or veflel shall be above the burthen of fifteen and not exceed
fifty tons, in the penalty of four hundred dollars, if exceeding
the burthen of fifty tons and not exceeding one hundred tons, in
the penalty of eigKt hundred dollars ; if exceeding the buflhen
of one hundered tons and not exceeding two hundered tons, in
the penalty of twelve hundred dollars ; if exceeding the burthen
of two hundred tons and not exceeding three hundred tons, in the
penalty of 1600 dollars; and if exceeding the burthen of three hun
dred tons, in the penalty of two thousand dollars. And the con
dition of every such bond shall be, that such certificate lhall not
be fold, lent, or otherwise disposed of to any perlon or persons
whomsoever, and that the fame shall be solely used for the ship or
veflel to which it is granted, atfid that in cafe such ship or veflel
shall be loft or taken by an enemy, burnt, or broken up, or other
wise prevented from returning to the port to which ibe belongs,
the certificate, if preserved, shall be delivered up within three
months after the arrival of the matter in any port or place in the
United States, to the collector of thediftrift where he shall arrive ;
and that if any foreigner, or any person or persons for his or their
use and benefit, (hall purchafc or otherwise become entitled to
the whole or any part or (hare of,on intereftin such ship or veflel,
and the fame {ball be within any diftrift of the United States, in
such caie the certificate of registry, shall, within seven days after
such purchase or transfer of property in such ship orveffel, be de
livered up to the collector of the said diftrift ; and in cafe such
fliip or vessel shall be in any foreign port or place, or atfea when
iuch transfer of interest or property lhall take place, the said mas
ter lhall, within eight days after his arrival in any. port or place
within the United States, deliver up the said certificate to the col
lector of the diftrift where he (hall arrive j and all the certificates
10 delivered up, lhall be forthwith transmitted by tlie collector to
the fecrctary of the treasury to be cancelled.
Sec. id. And be itfurther enafled, That whenever any ship or
vessel registered in eonformity with this 4ft, shall in whole or in
part be fold or transferred to a citizen or citizens of the United
States, theformer certificate of registry shall be delivered up to the
collefter, and by him without delay transmitted to the fecretaiy
of the treasury to be cancelled, and such ship or veflel (hall be
registered anew by her former name, and a certificate thereof (hall
be granted by the collector in like man«er as is herein before di
rected.
Sec. li. And be i' further enafled, That whenever any
such (hip or vessel (hallj in whole or in part befold or trans
ferred to any person or persons, the certificate of the
regi ftryof every such (hip or vessel, (hall be recited at length in
the inftrumentof transferor sale thereof, and in default thereof
such instrument or sale or transfer shall be void, and such (hip or
vessel, shall riot be deemed ordenominated a Ihip or vessel entitled
to any <jf the benefits or advantages of a (hipor vessel of the United
States.
Sec. 12. And be it further enafled, That whenever the master
or other person, having the charge or command of any (hip or ves
sel regifteied in the manner herein before directed, (hall be
changed, the master or owner of such Ihip or vessel, (hall deliver
to the collector of the diftrift where such change (hal! lake place,
the certincate of registry ol such (hip or vessel, who (hall thereon
endorse and fubferibea memorandum of such change,andforthwith
give notice of the fame to the collector of the diftrift where such
(hip or vessel was last registered pursuant to this aft,who (hall like
wise make a memorandum of the fame in the book ofrcgifters,
andtranfmit a copy thereof to the fecretaryof the treasury.
Stc. 13. And be it futher enotfed, That if the certificate of re
gistry of any (hip orveffel lhall be loft or destroyed, the master or
other person having charge of such Ihip or vessel, may make oath
or affirmation before the collector of the diftrift where such (hip
or vessel may arrive, who is heieby authorised to administer the
fame in the words and form following;
, '' . being master, or having charge of
the (hip of vessel called the do swear,
or affirm, that the said Ihip orveffel hath been, as I rerily believe
registered according to law by the name of
and thit a certificate thereof was granted at the port of
but that the fame is loft or destroyed (as the Cafe may
be) and that the fame, if found again, and comes again within my
power lhall be delivered up to the collector of the port where it
was granted ; and that the master of said (hip or vessel is a citixen
of the United States; andthat the said ship orveffel is, I believe,
the entire property of a citizen or citizens of the United States •
and that no foreigner has, to my knowlege and belief, any pro
perty or inters therein Ami the said oath Or affirmation shall
be filed in the office of the collector before whom it was made,
who is hereby required to register the said vessel anew by her for
mer name, and take the security in manner herein before directed
and deliver the certificate of such registry to the owner or owners,
11 rending within his diftrift, Or if not residing there, to the mas
ter orother person having charge of said ship orveffel, that such
certificate ofregiftry is granted in pursuance of this ast, instead of
a former certificate of registry, which appeals by such proof Ss
this ast requires, to be loft ; and such certificate of registry (hall
have the fameeffeft with the original, and the said collector (hall,
within three months, transmit a duplicate of the said certificate
to the fecretaryof the treasury to be registered in his office, who
shall notify the collector, who granted the certificate which was
loft or destroyed, of the fame, who is hereby required to cause a
memorandum thereof to be made in his book of registers.
Sec. 14. And be it futthtr ehtßtd, That if inv (hip or vessel
alter having been registered in pursuance of this ast, lhall in any
manner whatever, be altered in form or burthen, by being length
ened 01 built upon, or from one denomination to another, by the
mode or method of rigging or fitting, in such cafe, such vessel (hall
be registered anewby her former name in manner herein before
directed, as soon as (he returns to the port to which (he belongs, or
to any other port in which (he may be lawfully registered by virtue
of this ast, otherwise such (hip or vessel (hall not be deemed and
considered as a ship or vessel of the United States,
wj"- '5- hit further enaaed, That the collector of every
diftrift where registers (hall be made and certificates granted in
pur uanceof this ast, (hall progressively number the fame as they
ffiall be severally granted, begining at the time when this ast (hall
Z £■?'"' a " d contlnu ing to the end of the present year, and
thenceforth beginning at the commencement of every year and
ffial enter an exact copy of every such certificate, wiVthe num
abo"k t0 be keptfor that purpose, and (hall with
in three months transmit to the secretary of the treasury, a true co
"* - . flwll I*
one thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine and belomrin
ly or m part to the fubjrfts df foreign powers fhil j
vet Tel was built, in manner, following that is to fa* • n l .
i er ot every such fliip orvetW thall make oath or affirhwl
| lore the collcttor of such diftrift, who is hereby author, f rl?
minister iuch oath in manner following.; I, ' dt( 3ad.
of [here insert the place of residence,' county, and (UteU
wright, do swear, or afhrm, that [here deflate the liadfe
K l J namC , d , h.v.ng (mjmbcr of
being in length in breadth J '"<*
| ' n depth and measuring
| t L ons > havi "g gallery and
head, was built by me, or under my direftio,, vr«l>,«
and Hate] in the United States,.in the year ' L " «"»><?
which oath or affirmation thall be records
p 0 a " ner c direa.-d, in a book to be kept for that pw"
Sec 17. And be it further ertdfled, That a certificate of the fci J
recoid, attefttd under the hand arid leal of the colk-ftor nf m, j-/
; trift as aforefaid, thall be granted to the matter of every f.rt £
' An Art" 1 manner fo " owm 8 :ln purfuaoce of an ast,
1 collector of the dift iifl of ' m, ..
States, do certify that the builder [name} ot [place of tt&ime
county and state] having sworn or affirmed, that tIK (kin arvoff.l
[here designate the kind of vcffelj named whrr
is at P rcfcnt master, was built at [place couL
and state where built] by him or under his dtreflion, in [hTyw
and [here insert the name of the fur
veyor, or other person appointed by the collector, where there i.
no surveyor] having no certificate that the laid ftnp 01 vessel b»
[number of decks] is in length P
, and measures
tons ; and the said builder and matter having agreed
to the fa id defcripuon and measurement.the said thip or vessel h>.
been recorded in the diftrift of
in the United States. Witness my hand and seal. this
day of in the year ~
which sertificatc thall be recorded in the office of the collefld'
and a duplicate thereof transmitted to the secretary of the treasury
of the United States, to be recorded in his office.
Sec. 18. And be itfurther enaficd, That the furveyoror other ptr
tons to be appointed by the collcrtor as aforefaid, is hereby requ.r
ed to deliver a true account in writing, signed with his name of
the built, description and meafuremfcnt of every such ihipor vessel
as fpecified in the form of the said certificate, of record ot such
thips or vedels, which accounts (hill also be signed by the malta
to the colSeftor of the (Mrift where such certificate of the record
lhall be granted.
Sec. 19 And be it fnrthet e*attei y That tf the rlrafter dr the
name of any (hip or vessel so recorded (hall be changed, the owner,
part owner or confignce of such (hip or vessel (hall cause a memo
rand urn thereof to beendorfed on the certificate of the record, by
the collector of the diftrift where futh (Kip of vessel may be,or at
which me (hall arrive, if such change take place in a foreign coon,
try, and a copy thereol (hall be entered in the book ot records,*
tranfenpt whereof (hall be transmitted by thecolle&or to the col
lector of the diftrift where such certificate was granted, who (hall
the fame in hisbook Of records, and forward a duplicate of
luch entry to the secretary of the treasury of the l/nitcd States;
£*» until the said owner, part owner or confignce
lhall cause the said memorandum to be made by the Colle&orin
manner aforefaid, such ship or vessel (hall not be deemed orcoa
lidered as a veffrl recorded in pursuance of this Act.
Sec. 20. And be it further enaQed, That the master or dttierper
lon having command of anv Ihipor vessel recorded in purfaanceof
this act, (hall on entry ot iuch (hip or vessel produce the certificate
°u r to co^c^or of the diftrift, in failure of which
t e faidfhip or vessel (hall not be entitled to the privileges of a vessel
recorded as aforefaid.
Sec. 21. And be it further enafled, That all the penalties and for
feitures infixed and incurred by this ast, shall, and may be faed
prosecuted and recover|pl in such Courts and be difpofedofin
luch manner as any penalties or forfeitures inflifted,or which may
be incurred for any offence committed against the United States,
in and by an ast, entitled " An ast to regulate the collection of the
uties imposed by law, on the tonnage of ships or vessels, and on
goods, wares, and merchandize, imported into the United States,"
may legally be sued for, profecufed, recovered, and difpofedof.
c ec. 22. And be it further ena fled, That from and after thetttith
day of Septemper «iext, every (hip or vessel of the burthtn of
twenty tons or upwards, buil£ within the United States, and whol
y owned by a citizen or citizens thereof ; or not built within the
United States, ?nd on the fixteehth day of May, one thousand
even hundred and eighty-nine, wholly owned and thereafter con
tinuing to be owned by a citizen or citizens of the United States,
ut not regiftercd, if deftincd from diftrift to diftrift, or to the
ank or whale filheries, shall, in order to be entitled to a)l the pri
vileges of a (hipor vessel belonging to the United States, employ
.J n l "5 coa ft» n g trade or in the hlheries be enrolled by the tol
c^. or °f diftrift where the owner, or one of the owners of such
ma y re^e » ant * every vessel so enrolled, (hallhave her name
and the name of the place to which (he belongs painted on her
tin" manncrc * lre ft c d by this ast, for registered vessels, and such
co lcclor on due proof by oath or affirmation to him made by Ae
owner, or one of the owners of such (hip or vessel, of her name,
burthen and denomination, and that (he is of the description afoit
id, and the names of the owner or owners, and of the master
thereof, and that they are citizens of tne United States, and of the
place or places of residence of such ewner or owners* (hall enroll
in a book to be kept for that purpofe,thenameof every such vessel,
her burthen, Vhere built and denomination, the name or names,
and place or places of residence of the owner or owners thereof,
and that he or they, together with the master are citizens df tlte
United States, a difcription of the built of such Vessel as afottfard,
and the date of the enrollemcnt, and (hall also grant to theownct
or owners, a certificate, containing a copy of such enrollment, aod
and. transmit Jo the secretary of the treasury a copy of every
luch certificate of enrollment, to be by him recorded : And when
ever the property of such (hip or vessel (hall be changed in whole
or in part, the person or persons who (hall then be owndror
owners, or one of them, (hall make known such change tothecol-
Jeftor of the diftrift where he or they may reside, and such collet
is hereby authorised and directed to grant a new certificate of the
enrollment of such (hip or vessel bv her forfner name, to sucH
owner or owners, upon his or their delivering up the former cer*
tificate, which (hall be sent to the office of the collector faM l
whence it was issued, to be cancelled.
Provided, That the master or owner of every vessel of left
twenty tons burthen, and not less than five tons, which Hull
employed between any of the diftrifts rn the United States,
cause the name of such vessel, and of the place to which (he belongs,
to be paihted on her stern in manner directed by this ast f° r r £"
giftered vessels, and shall annually procure a lictfnce from t e
eolleftor of thediftrift to which such vessel belongs, who i« iWjJ
authorised to give the fame, purporting that such vessel is
from clearing and entering for the term of one year from the a
thereof ; and the master or owiler of every fucn vessel
bond with fufficient security for the payment of two htindfe 0
lars to the United States, with condition that such vessel (ha "
be employed in any illicit trade or commerce, and before am n
licence (hall be given for a succeeding year to the master 0
vessel, he shall on oath or affirmation, declare that no .
has been carried On in such vessel to his kttotolege or beli« a
ing the time for which (he was licensed.
(The remainder in our next.)
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maided
Lans, liearthe Ofwcgo-Marktt, N iiolf-