(Tactic
pjo. XLII.]
THE TAiiLE T. No. XLII.
" The good and bad qualities of men are so blend
e.J that it cannot be exaElly known, where one ends
ariithc other begins. This creates a source oj uneafi
rlfi and jealonjy among the people, and makes them
extremely at a loss how to manage the dijlribution of
frttift and-blame."
THERE is no situation in which men can be
placed, where it is more difficult to ascer
tain their real motives of conduct, than when
: hey are speaking of publi<ft affairs. However
diverfified may be the tempers of men, however
oppolite may be their pursuits, they fee.n gene
rally to be agreed in this one point ; that the con
iirr.i of the government might be managed better than
tktj are.
Every man supposes he poflefles a good share
of public spirit. While patriotism is the pre
tence it is a very plausible cover lor ignorance,
ill-nacure and felf-intereft. There are fomany
mifchiefs heflilting from-the deception which is
inpofed on the world, by the falfe colors which
the jraffions and characters of men afluine, that
Icoul3 wish my readers would call their atten
tion to a little felf-examination. Several persons
of my acquaintance often meet in a club to dis
cuss political fubje<fcs ; and whenever I fall in
rheiv company I have observed, they are fond of
(hewing their patriotism by pointing out some of
tie errors of the government, and suggesting
hints of improvement. I (hould be wanting in
candor if I imagined all their observations were
dictated by fiujjler views. Men, who support an
tmblemiffied reputation in the private walks of
life, are entitled to some degree of indulgence,
when we are construing the motives of their con
dudrelacive to public rvanfuctions. Under this
prrfuafion, 1 will mark the outlines of some cha
racters, who I perceive have some influence in
forming and controtiling the popular opinions
and wiihes. The relult will prove that men with
out any bad intentions often mistake the public
good, and excite clamour and uneasiness when no
raufe exists
Ixfeux is a man who, in many refpe-its, pof
fefles real worth and excellence. He is only had
in appearance. Any one, who pafles an hour
■with him, will go away diflatisfied ; but upon a
more intimate acquaintance many good qualities
may bedifcovered. It is to be regretted, that
so worthy a man often makes himfelf and others
unhappy, by the irritability ofhis temper. From
a natural reftlcfluefs of spirit he is so habituated
to murmur and fret, that no character or event
escapes the strokes of his pevifhnefs. When he
is speaking of public men and measures, one
would imagine, he is the invetetate enemy of
both. But there is not any man, whom it would
be more difficult to draw into any deliberate aift
offedition ; and there are few men, from whom
the community derives more substantial benefit.
With an incessant spirit of complaint, he pays
h'.s taxes and performs other duties required of
him, in better season than any of his neighbors,
andwirh as little captioufnefs as he eats his din
ner. This call of temper may rather be called
ill-humour than malice, and keeps a man habi
tually uneafv without provocation or design. It
strikes at 110 determinate cbjetft, but rails indif
criminatelv at the times. Such a man is always
discontented with present objetfls, without giving
any real'on why he is so ; and wifhesalterations,
without being able to tell what they Ihould be.
If I rcmonllrate with my friend Infelix and
Wgehim to check his fretlulnefs, he will scarce
allow that he has a complaining spirit. When
be has been, for several hours, throwing censure
on public affairs, if he is told of it, he recolledts
little or nothing of the matter. He means no
barm and really feels no enmity. Still, however,
bcis a dangerous aflociate. Many ofhis acquaint
ance believe he is a zealous patriot. They do
"ot conlider that he is constitutionally prone to
murmur ; and are apt to ascribe to a cool reflec
tion, those remarks, which involuntarily flow
rom a habit of impatience and difgulf.
I have another friend called Ben k vol us, from
*hom, it would be imagined, the public
ty had nothing to fear. He never speaks with
any degree of fplean and resentment ; and has
uchan habitual serenity of mind as to be the fa
l°rite companion of all his acquaintance. But
range as it may appear, Besevolus some times
a es the confidence of his friends, in the pub
ic proceedings. From a strong desire to fee the
a , a ' rs °f _the community prosper, he beholds
w 't too lively lenfibility every occurrence that
counteracts so benevolent a wi!h. The truth is,
e 1 :u "'' s t0( » favorably of mankind, and is led
0 expect more than events will authorize. As
e lla s no just ideas of human nature, when he
ceu es instances of imperfedaon in any indi-
SATURDA Y, September 1739.
viduals, he is apt to suppose other men are less
liable to frailty. In fliort, he never fufpedts any
errors in any person until he aiflually (lifeovers
them. Benevolus, though a well disposed man,
is a very weak one. His knowledge is not To ex
tenlive as his motives are pure. He has so defec
tive a discernment, that he cannot diftinguifli
between public misfortunes and public errors. His
want oflagacity prevents his tracing di(orders to
their proper source : and makes him charge up
on individuals those evils which result from the
inherent nature of society. He will not complain
with bitterness, but mildly exprefles the pain he
feels that public officers have so little patriotism
and integrity. Bf.nevolus is perfectly honest in
his principles and confines all his afiertions with
in the limits of truth. The defeat of his under
standing exposes liim to mistakes ; and makes
him inadvertently the dupe of men worse than
hiinfelf. This good man, while he fervently
wifiies well, often does ill to the government.
(To be continued.)
NEW-YORK, September 5, 1789.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES,
SATURDAY, AUGUST 29.
IN committee of the whole—Mr. Boudinot
in the chair.—
DEBATE on the JUDICIAL BlLL—continued.
On motion to strike out the third fe<ftion.
MR. MADISON. It will not be doubted that
some judiciary system is nccoilkry to accomplish
the objects of the government; and that it ought
to be commensurate with the other branches of the
government. Under the late confederation it
could scarcely belaid that there was any real le.
giflative power. There was no executive branch ;
and the judicial was so confined as to be of lit
tle consequence. In the new Constitution, a re
gular system is provided. The legislative power
is made effective for its objeifts ; the executive is
co-extensive with the legi'lative, and it is equal
ly proper that this should be the cafe with the
judiciary. If the latter be concurrent with the
(late jurifdicftions, it does not follow that it will
for that reason be impracticable. It is admitted
that a concurrence exists in some cases between
the legislative authorities of the federal and State
governments ; and it may be fafely affirmed that
there is more both of novelty and difficulty in
that arrangement than there will be in the other.
To make the state courts federal courts is lia
ble to insuperable objevftions. Not to repeat that
the moment that is done, they will from the
highest down to the county courts, hold their
tenures during good behaviour, by virtue of the
Constitution. It may be remarked that in ano
ther point of view it would violate the Constitu
tion, by usurping a prerogative of the Supreme
Executive of the United States. It would bemak
ing appointments which are cxprefsly vested in
that department, not indeed by nomination but
by drfcription, which would amount to the fame
thing. But laying these difficulties aside, a re
view of the constitution of the courts in many
States will fatisfy us that they cannot be trusted
with the execution of the federal laws. In some
of the States, it is true they might, and would be
fafe and proper organs of such a jurisdiCtion :
But in others, they are so dependent on the State
legislatures, that to make the federal laws de
pendent on them, would throw us back into all
the embarralfinents which characterized our for
mer situation. In Connecticut the judges are ap
pointed annually by the legislature, and the le
gislature is itfelf the dernier resort in civil cases.
In Rhode-ifland,which we hope soon to fee united
with the other States, the cafe is at least as bad.
InGeorgia even under there formed Constitution,
the judges are triennially appointed, and in a
manner by no means unexceptionable. In Penn
sylvania they hold their places for seven years
only. Their tenures leave a dependence, par
ticularly for the last year or two of the terms,
which forbid a reliance on judges who feel it.
With refpe(fl to their falaries,there are few States
if anv, in which the judges (land on independ
ent ground. On the whole, Sir, I do not fee
how it can be made compatible with the Consti
tution, or fafe to the federal interests to make
a transfer of the federal j urifdi<ftion to the State
courts, as contended for by the gentlemen who
oppose the clause in question.
Mr. Jackson. —Sir, the importance of the
question induces me to trouble the committee so
far as to answer one of the arguments made use
of in the opposition, and which I think neceflary
(to do away the inipreffions they may have made)
iiiould be anfsvered. The gentleman from Mas-
[. Publijhcd on Wcdnifday and Saturday .'J
fachufetts, (Mr. Sedgwick) has carricd tlie na
tion to the highest pinnacle of glory ..and in a mo
ment hurled it down to its lowest pitch ; and has
laid the loss of national faith, credit, and honor
to the want of an energetic judiciary.—Every
good citizen will with him deplore the abject
ltate we have been brought to ; but, Sir, do his
arguments hold good here ? I am of opinion and
it is evident they do not. —Under our old form of
government Congress had no compelling judicia
ry—no power of reversing the decrees of the State
Judges ; but is it contended that they have or
ought to have none under the present system ?
It is allowed, Sir, that Congress shall have the
power in its fulleft extent to correct, reverse or
affirm any decree of a State court ; and afliired
ly the supreme court will exercise this power.
How then can our national faith or honor be in
jured by striking out the clause ill future ? It malt
be obvious to the gentleman himfelf that his
fears are groundless : For the supreme court will
interfere and keep the State judiciaries within
their bounds. That authority will tell them,
thus far fhallj'e go, and no farther, and will
bring them back when they exceed their bounds
to the principles of their institution.
Another gentleman from Maflacliufetts, (Mr.
Ames) has advanced a position .1 cannot agree
with ; lie has said that the State courts will, nor
cannot take cognizance of laws of the Union/as
it would be taking up matters without the bounds
of their jurisdiCtion, and interfering with what
was not left to them. Sir, I anl'wer that gentle
man with the words of the Constitution, " This
Constitution and the laws of the United States
made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties, Bcc.
shall be the supreme law of the land"—rthis fur
pafles in power any State laws : —The judges
are bound to notice them as the supreme
law, and I call on the gentleman to know, as a
profefiional man, if a criminal was tried for a ca
pital offence under a State law and could juf
tify himfelf under the laws of the Union, if the
State judges could condemn him ? Sir, they
would forfeit their oaths if he was not acquitted;
—this however he has admitted in his argument
in some measure. If there was no jurifdiftion,
neither could they notice the law. I acknow
ledge that the gentleman has used many specious
arguments ; but as they reft chiefly 011 this
ground, I think they are done away.
The gentleman (Mr. Madifjn) from Virginia,
has advanced that by leaving this power in the
hands of the State judiciaries, or by joining their
concurrent authority, you establish them as infe
rior jurisdictions. If the gentlemau will turn to
the I ith and 25th fetftions, he will find both those
pofttions eftabliihed,and what fell from thegentle
man from Mallachufetts concerningjurifdiction is
likewise answered. The State courts by the for
mer are acknowledged to liavecoiicurrent jurisdic
tion in a large extent, where the United States
or an alien are a party, or between citizens of one
State and those of another. And if the jurisdic
tion is acknowledged in some points, it must be
supposed to be so in the fulleft entent. By the
25th, Sir, they are again fully established, and
therefore they are now by the present system in
every light as fully, agreeably to the gentleman's
argument inferior jurisdictions, as they possibly
could be by the principles of the gentleman from
New-Hampshire. And here Sir, I will advert to
the general arguments, used by the gentlemen in
opposition, of the neceflity of power to enforce
the laws of the Union and support the national
exiltence and honor. Sir, lam opposed in some
degree to this clause. For the extent of its
power, even supposing the diftri<ft and circuit
courts abolilhed, swallows up every fbadow of
a State judiciary. Gentlemen have therefore
no reason to complain of the want of federal
judiciary power, for the clause declares, " That
a final judgment or decree in any suit in
the highest court of law, or equity, of a
State in which a decision of the suit could be had,
where is drawn in question the validity of a trea
ty, or statute of, or an authority exercised under
the United States; and the decision isagainft their
validity ;or where is drawn in question the va
lidity of a statute of, or an authority exercised
under any State on the ground of their being
repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or laws
of the United States, and the decision is in fa
vor of such their validity; or where is drawn
in question the conftrucftion of any clause of the
constitution, or of a treaty or statute of, or of a
coinmiflion held under the United Stares, and
the decision is against the title, rio;ht, piivilege
or exemption specially set up, or claimed by ei
ther party under such clause, of the said consti
tution, treaty, statute or commiflion ; may be
re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the su
preme court of the United States.'' Sir, in my®£inidn. and lam convinced experience will prove
*t, there will, nor can be no suit or action brought
in any of the State courts but may under this clause
be reverfcd or affirmed by beingbrought within the
cognizance of the supreme court. But should there
be fonie exceptions for the present, yet Sir, the
precedent is so forcible, for it goes so far as even
to admit of constructions that under fonie con
itruction or other, of some of the articles, those
articles wiH in time be totally loft. Sir,let us look
at the court of exchequer in England—Revenue
trials at firll engrolied its whole attention—from
a series of fiction there is now 110 personal ac
tion but from conltruction may be brought with
in their cognizance—lt is only to suggest, and
very seldom true that the plaintiff is a kings debt
or and the avtion is well grounded—Yet there
they have counter checks and another resort—
here the supreme court is final. Sir, the gen
tleman from South-Carolina [Mr. Burke] was
right in declaring a resident on lake Erie might
dragged to York for trial, as that on the
Oconee to Savannah. Nay, Sir, 1 know not how
far in time a nianmight not be dragged from the
Oconee to be tried in North-Carolina; for one
part of the bill-, without fpecifying the spot, de
clares that the circuit courts shall have power to
hold special felfions for the trial of criminal causes
at their discretion. On thole considerations I
hope the House will not adopt the present fyf
tein until the milder one is tried. It is calculat
ed to harrafs and foment the people, without an
fvvering any essential purpose.
fN. B. In Mr. Jukfon's fpeeeh in our lajl, middle column, inline
injieadof " the firfl he has brought forward," tfad the firft I lhall
notice and mjleaaof LL the firji privilege of everyggovernment"t t " read
the firft principle of every government.^
Mr. Smith (S. C.)~ AH the difficulties and in
conveniences which the gentlemen have started
as' arising from the cftablHhinent of a district
court arise from the government itfelf. All the
objections made to this court apply equally a
gainst having any national judicature. Indeed
it they had any weight they woidd as forcibly
apply againll: the very institution which the gen
tlemen patronize, viz. a court of admiralty and
piracy. If there is to be this perpetual clashing
of jurifdicftions between the federal and State
courts, this eternal jarring between their respec
tive officers, will not these embarrassments exill
under any judicial system which the ingenuity of
man can devjfe ? Will they not take place un
der the establishment proposed by the other fide ;
and will the mere alteration of the court from a
district to a court of admiralty and piracy reme
dy the evil ? But these objections come too late ;
a national government is established—the judi
cial power is a component part of that govern
ment, and mult be coinmenfurate to it. If we
have a government pervading the Union, we
inuft have a judicial power of similar magnitude :
We must eftab'ifh courts in every part of the
Union. The only question is, which is the plan
best calculated to answer the great objects we
all have in view, the carrying the judicial powers
into operation with the least inconvenience to the
citizens. This double system of jurisprudence
is unavoidable ; it is as much a part of the Conlli
tution as the double system of legislation ; each
State has a legislative power, and the Congress
has a legislative power, both operating on the
fame persons, and in many cases on the fame ob
jects : It is infinitely more difficult to mark with
precision the limits of the legislative than of the
judicial power: No one however disputed the
propriety of vetting Congress with a legislative
power over the Union, and yet that power is per
haps more liable to abuse than the judicial. It has
been indeed contended in some of the State Con
ventions that Congress ought not to be intrusted
with direct taxation ; and it is remarkable that
the fame obstacles were urged against that pow
er which are now suggested against this institu
tion. It was then said that federal and State
taxes could not operate at the fame time without
confufion ; it was then facetioully aiked, whe
ther the Congrefiional and the State collector
who had seized a horse for the payment of taxes
were to divide him between them ; it is now afk
cd with equal pleasantry, whether the marshal
of the district court and the flieriff of the State
court who have taken the fame debtor in execu
tion are to cut him in halves.—lt was then an
swered, that if the State collector seized the horse
firft, he will have the firft fatisfacftion : It was
alf'o shewn that there are frequently in the fame
State, State taxes, county taxes, and corporation
taxes, and that these never occasioned any clash
ing or confufion : It may now be answered that
there are at present in some of the States, State
conrts, county courts, and corporation courts ;
and that these are found convenient, and unac
companied with the clashing so much apprehend
ed. They keep within their particular spheres,
and have their limits ascertained. Bur, in an
fwer'to one fuppofirion allow me toftate another :
Suppose a State flieriff and a county fheriff
ihouldl'eizetne fame debtor, would he be parcel
led out between them ? would not the execu'-ion
which was firft-ferved take effect ? Is not this the
practice at present, and will it not be so under
this system ? It is very easy for gentlemen in the
warmth of their imaginations to suppose a varie
ty of cases, and to raise a multiplicity of objec
tions against any fyftein of jurisprudence whate
ver: They will all be more or lei's liable to some
objection on the lcore of inconvenience, but they
are submitted to by good citizens who are fenli
ble that they are the surest means of protecting
their property, reputations and lives. After all
that has been said, it does not appear that we
diffprfo widely as was imagined, for the gentle
men who advocate the motion,concede tlienecef
fity of some inferior federal court in each State :
this clause does nothing more than establish an
inferior federal court in each State. What then
do gentlemen object to ? If it is the name of the
court, that may be altered—if it is the frequency
of holding thein, it will be very easy to amend
the clause in that reflect; but why move to strike
out the clause altogether, when it is granted on
all hands that there must be such a court. The
objection to the extent ofjurifdiction is premature,
and ought to be reserved for the clause which as
certains the jurifdi(ftion ; if upon an inveftiga
lion of that clause, it shall appear that it ought
to be reftriited, that will be the seasonable time
for moving to strike out the exceptionable part,
but really at present gentlemen are making ob
jections to one clause which, from their own con
ceflions, apply altogether to another. As to se
veral other observations, which relate to the
time of holding the courts, and the mode of
drawing jurors, it is unneceflary to reply fully
to them at present, because it would be improper
to run into a discussion of the detail, while the
question is on the principle of the fyftein. lam
no less opposed to the time of holding the courts
and the mode of drawing jurors, provided by
the bill, thanthe gentleman from whom the ob
jection came, and I shall add my endeavors to his,
to effect an alteration in these points ; but this is
not the proper time, we are now on the princi
ple, whether there (hall be a district court; The
fame answer will apply to the objection that the
juries and witnefles will be unneceflarily harraf
fed ; every care will be taken to accommodate
these courts to the convenience of the citizens of
each State.
Several other difficulties hare been urged as
growing out of this plan of jurisprudence ; a can
did difcuflion will remove and obviate them. It
has been said, that the bill provides a number of
appeals from the State to the supreme court,
through the district and circuit courts, and that
the suitors may be persecuted with appeals car
ried on from one court to another, through four
different courts. An attentive examination of
the bill is a fufficient answer to this objection :
There is no appeal from the State to the district
court, and only a power of removal in certain
cases of a federal jurisdiction from the State to
the circuit court: neither is there any appeal
of fact from the district to the circuit court, but
in admiralty causes, and these cannot be after
wards carried up to the supreme court but where
the value exceeds 2000 dollars.
It has been said that under the idea of vicin
age, a man may be dragged far from his friends
to trial from Georgia to North Carolina ; but it
must be remembered that there is a Constitution
al provision, that the criminal shall be tried in
the State where the offence is committed, and
the bill is conformable to the Constitution in this
respect. It has been ohferved that the Constitu
tion is 110 bar to veiling the State courts with
federal powers, for the words " such inferior
courts as Congress shall from time to time eftab
lilh," imply that Congress may notinftitute thein,
and if they are not iiiftituted, these powers must
of course remain with the State courts : In reply
to this argument it is to be obferved,that the words,
" such inferior courts, &c>" apply to the number
and quality of the inferior federal courts, and not
to the possibility of excluding them altogether:
It is a latitude ofexpreffion empowering Congress
to institute such a number of inferior courts, of
such particular conftrucftion, and at such parti -
cular places as shall be found expedient: In short
in the words of the Constitution, Congreft may
establish such inferior courts as may appear re
quisite. But that Congress must eftabliih some
inferior Courts is beyond a doubt: In the firft
place, the Constitution declares that the judicial
power of the United States shall be vested in a
supreme and in inferior courts. The words
shall be vested" have great energy, they are
terms of command ; they leave no discretion to
Congress to parcel out the judicial powers of the
Union to State judicatures, where a discretion
ary power is left to Congress by the Constitution,
the word "may" is employed, where no discre
tion is left, the word "ihall" is the appropriate
term; this distinction is cautiously observed.
Again, the Supreme Court in two cases only has
original in all others itlias appellate jurisdiction ;
but where is the appeal to come from ? Certainly
not from the State courts; it must come from a
federal tiibunal. There is another argument
which appears conclusive : Tlio Constitution pro
vides that the judges of the Supreme and inferior
courts shall hold their commiflions during good
behavior and /hall receive falariesnot capable of
diminution, and ii further provides that the ju
dicial power of the Union shall be veiled in a
Supreme and inferior courts ; that is in aSunrem
and inferior courts whose judges thai 1 are to ] '
comtniffions during goo d behaviour and le ' r
pollels salaries not liable to diminution
Does not then the Constitution in the P l ainp(v
andn.oft unequivocal language preclude
allotting any part of the judicial authority O fZ
Union to the State judicatures' The bill • •
said, is then unconstitutional, for it recomii,'a*
authority of the State courts in that clause whiA
empowers the Supreme Court to overturn the 7
ci lions of the State Courts when thole decifil
are repugnant to the laws or Conftitntion
the United States. This is no recognition
any such authority, it is a neceffaryprovifi„,
to guard the rights of the Union against the n
vafion ofthe States Isa State court Ihould ufum
jurifdicftion of federal causes, and by its J
judications attempt to strip the federal Govern'
ment of its Constitutional rights, it is necellarv
that the national tribunal should poilbfs the Po \v
er of protecting those rights from such invalkm
1 he committee have been told that thismultipli'
cation of courts, and of appeals will diftrefsth
citizens ; and the number of appeals in Great
Britain have been alluded to. 1 have always
heard that there is no country in' the world
where justice is better administered than in that
country ; to its excellent and impartial admimftra
tion the profpei ity, freedom and civil rights of
its citizens have been attributed: Were appeals
too much restrained in this country, linuchqucf.
tion whether a great clamor would not beraifed
against luch a rellritftion : Thecitiziens of afree
country, when they lose their cause in one
court, like to try their chance in another: This
is a privilege they consider themselves justly in
titled to, and if a litigious man harrafles his ad
versary by vexatious appeals, lie is fufficiently
punished for it by having the colts to pay. By
limiting appeals to the Supreme Court to funis
above iooo dollars, as is proposed, the poor will
be protected from being liarrafled by appeals to
the Supreme Court.
There is one more observation Which requires
an anfwer:—lt was said that the juries, might
be dragged from one end of a State to another;
provision is expressly made against this in the
bill ; it is there enaifled that the juries fliall be
so drawn as to occasion the smallest inconveni
ence to the citizens. After having very mature
ly confulered the fubjei/t and attentively examin
ed the bill in all its modifications, and heard all
that has been alledged on this occasion, lam per
fectly convinced that, whatever defeats may be
discovered in other parts of the bill, the adoption
of this motion would tendto the rejection of every
system of national jurisprudence.
[7fo remainder of this debate in our next\
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1.
A petition from the citizens of Philadelphia refpe&ing the
permanent and temporary residence of Congress was read.
The petition of the creditors of the United States residing in
the city of Philadelphia, was refered to the committee ofways
and means.
Mr. Viking then brought forward his motion refpeftingthe
validity of the Jersey election. in a new form, viz. " Resolved,
that James Schureman, Lambert Cadwallader, Elias Boudmot, and
Thomas Sinnukfon, were duly and properly returned mem
bers of this House."
Mr. Sherman madea number of observations in fupportof
the validity of the election.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) spake on the fame fide. The following is
the substance ot his argument :
This is a fubjeft which requires considerable attention. I con.
fefs I had doubts yesterday. I have since made up my opinion.
It appears to me the matter turns on the conftruttion of the law
of New-Jersey. I n the firft place the law admits of a conftru&oa
that the returns ought to be made, and the elettion announced oa
the third of March.
It admits of another conftru&ion, that the ele&ion ought not to
be declared,till all the returns from all the counties in the State were
made, We must give the law a reasonable conftru&ion. It ap
pears from the preamble, that the cle&ion (hould be declared the
third of March, because it mentions that the Constitution Ihould
begin to operate on the fourth of March, and the preamble im
plies that the eleflion should be made known at that time. There
is no particular time prescribed when the returns (hall be made;
but it appears that there is a reference to the practice and usage
of the State. Now by the law regulating the ele&ion of there*
prefentatives in the State LegiHature, there appears to be no time
limited for the returns of the ele&ion. It appears also that this
conftru&ion was given by the who made their re
turns previous to the fourth of March. It appears also, that the
Governor had this in idea by fummoningtheCouncil. These obser
vations were made yesterday, and they had weight on my mm •
In answer to this conftruttion it may be said, that it is done
away by the ast which declares that the Governor and C°" nc
shall call up the votes from the whole of the returns of w thc
counties, and therefore the fourth of March was not the proper
time, unless the returns were all then made, which it is proha e
was contemplated at the time of the pafling of the law. Itvvw
appear that absurdities will follow from either of the conltruc
tions. If you take the firft, it might so have happened that n»
county may have made the returns. Would it then have been in
quired that the Governor should declare the election ? or that
Governor (hould decide on the votes of one county, if on) jj
had returned? On the other hand to wait till all the returns 2
been made would be, equally absurd, because it would be m
power of one county to defeatthe election.
The cjueftion then is, whether the executive power has no
discretion ; and whether he ought not to exercise thatde cre '
to carry the law into execution ?—lf this is admitted,
question arises, whether the executive exercised that dilcretio
<1 juftifiable manner. It appears that the Governor, preMO"
the third of March, summoned the council and laid before
the returns on that day. But it seems also that the ™ov.
rliought it probable that all the returns would not thenibeina
As on the third of March,there were only the returns of seven
ties made : As it was merely matter of conftru&ion,it, a FP ea c cTe .
that the Governor and Council had a right to exerC e r Lj e t iine
tion, in poftpbning the determination for such a reafona
as would allow the returns to be feni in ; and that this 15
thole cafcs where the executive may properly interpolc itsuhere the law is dubidlas, ana yet must 1)4 carried into opera
tion Some latitude mull be given to the executive in similar
f -Iwere it denied the executive authority would bealmoftufc-
Tf The Governor when he summoned the Council, observed
that the returns would probably be made the third of March,
d upon that presumption did he summon them. The next quef
t'on is whether the Governor ihould not have protracted the de
termination till atl the returns were made ? I think not, for the
reasons before dated ; it isfufficient if he waited a reasonable time,
lo that the returns might have all been made : Twelve out of thir
teen were actually made : Con;refs were affemblinr, and a very
reasonable time had been allowed : The Governor was then jufti
fcdin announcing the elcftion.
Ittnay be said that this rfi'cretionary power might be abused,
because the governor might watch the opportunity when his friends
were highest on the lift, and then clole the elettiou. True, such
abuse was poflible, and were it proved, would be a good ground
•ffettiii" it aside; butall power is liable to abuse; the returning
officers "have it in their power to commit abuses at all elections"
yet they must be trusted ; it does not appear that the governor act
ed unfairly—on the contrary, he f. eins tcr have conlulted the in.
tercfts ol his state, by fending its representatives in proper time to
Congress, andatthe fame time receiving the (urt'rages ot his fellow
citizens, as long as was confident with the public good.
Thequeftion on Mr. Vi ning's motion was carried in theaffirm-
S "a mefTage was received from the President of the United States
informing the House that he had approved and the bill for
regulating the coaftingtrade, and the trcafury bill.
The House then took up tl#: amendment of the Senate to the
bill for cftabliftung the compensation of the members of Congress.
The firft amendment was to strike out thefirlt paragraph to the
bill and to insert instead thereof a clause providing that tne Scna
tors'and Representatives Ihould have fix dollars a day till the year
oqi when thecompenfation of the Senators (hould be L-Ven dol
lars a day, and that the allowance for travel (hould be fix dollars
forever/ twenty miles.
Mr, Jackson opposed very warmly both the principle of the
amendment and the manner in which it was introduced.
Mr. Sedgwick also obje&ed to the formof the amendm-nt,
lut took this opportunity to press the principle of the discrimi
nation between the pay of both Houses. He was supported
by Mr. Ames.
Mr. Tucker, reprobated the form of the amendment as inde
licate since it proposed to the house a measure which it would be
dilgracelul in them to adopt, viz. the fubjefiing their fucceflbrs
toadifaimination and an inferiority which they would not them
selves f(ibmit to.
Mr. Jackson considered the amendment as a measure of de
ception, to take the House in by a specious semblance in the Sena
tors of i disregard to their personal interest
On the other fide, the argument was chiefly confined to the ge
neral principle, and the old ground was travelled over. Several
alterations, by way of amendment, were attempted to the amend
ment of the Senate, but the amendment itfeelf seemed so con
dratted that any partial alteration appeared impoflible with con
sistency.
The general quellion for concurrence was at length taken, ana
Kgatived by a large majority. Adjourned. [Daily AJver.J
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER J.
The engrofted bill for suspending the opera
tion of a clause in the collection law till the firft
ofAugult next, was read athird time and palled.
A letter from the Governor of Georgia was
read, which encloled an accurate statement of
the impolts, exports, amount duties, &c. of that
State, for the year i 788.
The bill to provide tor the punilhment of cer
tain crimes committed against the United States,
was read afecond time,and refered to a commit
tee ot the whole Honfe—to be the order of the
day, next Monday week.
In committee of the whole on the fubjeclof a
permanent residence for the general Government.
The resolution submitted by Mr. Scott on
Thursday lall,was read : viz. That a place ought to
be fixed on forthe permanent residence of the ge
neral Government, as near the centre of wealth,
population and territory,as is consistent with the
convenience of the Atlantic navigation, having
also due regard to the western territory.
Mr. Goodhue rose, and observed that the a
bove resolution is indefinite, as it fpecifies 110
particular place—the eastern and northern mem
bers, said he, have been averse to taking up this
buiinefs the present felfion, considering the
weight of public business to be transacted pre
vious tothe adjournment; but their judgment be
ing overruled by a late vote, they have since
made up their minds upon the fubjedt, and agreed
not only with the spirit of the resolution before
the committee, but have gone further, and fix
ed on the place ; they are of opinion that on the
eastern banks of the river Safquehanna, Congress
Ihould fix its permanent residence ; and that until
the particular spot should be determined on, and
the proper buildings eretfled, the feat of the
general government Ihould be at the city of
New-York. He then introduced a resolution to
that effect.
The difcuflion of this fubjecH: being an expect
ed event, a crouded hall and galleries teltified
the public solicitude.—The debate was ingenious,
fat'ietic, and animated—the molt profound at
tention was given.
Several amendments were proposed and nega
tived: But one moved by Mr. Lee for striking
out the former part refpedting " the Sufquehan
na," and inserting " the Patewmac," occafion
«d a prolongation of the debate till near 4 o'clock,
when the committee rose, without deciding up
on the original motion, or the amendment,
a tid the House adjourned.
FR IDAY, sept. 4.
Mr. Hf.ister presented a petition from the in-
soldiers of the State of Pennsylvania, repre-
that the State has flopped the payment of
their pensions, and praying relief—read, and re
° a fp cc ' a l committee, confilli y,;; of Mr.
e -ni ' • Wadfworth, and Mr. Gilman.
The several petitions from pensioners, which
M VE p • P 1 " e *~ ente d to the House, on motion of
r ' " ar tri(lge, were refer edro the above commit
tee—\vhich was also iiiftructed to take up the fub
jeift generally, and to report a bill.
The committee, to which was recommitted the
report on the letter received from the Post-Master
General, brought in a new report, in fubilance,
as follows : Resolved, that until further provilion
can be made, the Polt-Otfice be conducted agree
able to the ordinances of the late Congress, and
that the contraifis be made conformably thereto.
In committee oft he whole, on the order of the day.
Mr. Bou&inot in the chair.
The resolve introduced by Mr. Goodhue yes
terday in.the following words was read : Resolved,
as the opinion of this committee, that the perma
nent feat of the government of the United States,
ought to be at some convenient place on the eall
bank of the Sufquehanna in the State of Penn
sylvania ; and that until the neceflary buildings
be erected for the purpose, the feat of the gov
ernment ought to be at New-York.—Mr. Lee
proposed to amend this resolution, by striking
out the firft part to introduce a clause which pro
vided that the permanent fear of government
should be on the Patowinac.—The debate was on
this amendment, which continued till near four
o'clock, when thequeftion being put, it was ne
gatived ;as were also several others,and the ques
tion on Mr. Goodh ue's motion was finally car
ried in the affirmative.
Mr. Fitzsimons then proposed the following,
vit.
Resolved, as the opinion of this committee,
that The President of the United States be autlio
rifed to appoint commiflioners, to examine
and report to him the moil eligible situation on
the east bank of the Sufquehanna, for the perma
nent feat of the government of the Uuited States.
That the said commiflioners be authorised, by
and with the advice of the President, to purcliafe
such quantity of land as may be thought neceflary
—and to ereCt thereon within years, Sui
table buildings for the accommodation of theCon
grefs, and of the officers of the United States.—
That the Secretary of the treasury, together
with the Commiflioners so to be appointed, be
authorized to borrow a fiun not exceeding
dollars, to be repaid in years with interest
at the rate of per cent, per ann. payable
out of the Duties on Import and Tonnage; to be
applied to the purchase of the land, and the
erection of the buildings aforefaid.
And that a bill ought to pass in the present ses
sion, in conformity with the foregoing resolutions.
Which being read was laid on the table—After
which the committee lose, and the chairman re
ported progress. Adjourned.
IO" IVant of room prevents our injerting a Jketch
of the interefling debate on this fubjeß, this day.
EMIGRATION.
BY dire misfortune driven to despair,
To southern climes our hardy sons repair ;
There in a land of fire, disease, and (laves,
Where thjp first p*l a nth is the man of graves.
Where fevers, agues, fogs and dews destroy,
And aid grim Death the Sexton to employ,
The wretched vittims find when 'tis too late,
Their native clime affords a milder fate.
ADDRESS TO THE PUBLICK.—from an old friend.
I HAVE alwaysbecn a friend to America : It is my native coun
try-r-and till very lately I have had no cause of complaining—
every body has beenpleafcd with my deportment,and have thought
themselves happy in the vearejl arid mojl intimate acquaintance with
me ; but some how or other, there is a realox pretended indifference
arisen of late—what it is owing to, 1 will not fay ; but so it is,
that since a certain vagabond crew of brazen face cheats were beat
out of countenance, and were ftiunned by all honest people, as they
ought to be—l fay,fince that time, I have been a fufferer : Perhaps
it is owing to my having been J'ecn in bad company now and then ;
but this it is impoflible to avoid, as the world goes : However,
the fa & is, that I have funk in the general estimation, some fay ten,
others twenty pr. cent. My family consists of a variety of ages
and sizes ; and we all have our weight and importance regulated ;
and claim our refprftive dues anil lanksin foeiety. We have done
no injury to the public : \V r e behave as well now as we did twenty
years ago—and why we (hould not be eflimated as highly is per
fettly unaccountable to our whole family.
Home oldfervants * among us complain very bitterly of a certain
shopkeeper, who under pretence of our injerior value, is locking
us up for transportation, by which he will clear more than twenty
pr. cent, and indeed we shall all be for packing off bag and bag
gage, it we cannot be valued actording to our intrinjic merit.
It is our invariable cuftoin toJix in those places where wc can
purchase the mojl, with thzleajl.
If these hints do not have proper weight given them, you (hall
hear another chinking before we take our final departure.
SILVER COIN.
* Shillings without a head.
THE LATEST ACCOUNTS FROM EUROPE,
STATE—
That every thing was in a state of fermenta
tion in France—and that the military had refufed
to draw the trigger upon their couutrymen when
ordered by the Count D'Artois, in Paris :—That
the Duke of Orleans omits 110 opportunity to ac
quire popularity : —That forty of the prlnripal
clergy had joined the Commons—and that the
Tiers Etat were continually receiving accelfions
of numbers to their party :
That theßuflians and Swedes are cutting throats,
the former have taken a 44g<yi ftiip from the lat
ter —but that the Swedes had gained the advan
tage in an engagement by land.
That the Turks and the Allies are frequently
engaged—and the former as ufaal routed with
horrible slaughter—Two Pachas having lately
fallen into the hands of the Imperialilts :
That the Emperor of Germany is not dead,
but recovers slowly—and was to take the field in
May—and that in all probability the campaign
will be a bloody one :
That the budget had been opened by the Bri
tish miniiter in parliament—and some additional
taxes proposed—among others, an EXCISE ON
TOBACCO AND SNUFF : That the trial of
Warren Hastings 13 not finifhed—nor is there a
profpedt of its being very speedily terminated.
TROUBLES IN BRABANT.
The following are the articles proposed by the
Emperor to the Commons of Brabant,and which
they having refufed to accede to, have been di
verted of all power.
Article 1. A fixed subsidy to be guarded as in
Flanders.
Art. 2. Fifteen towns in the provinces to fend
Members to the States, instead of the three chief
towns only.
Art. 3. The wilhes of two Orders forming
the majority to carry the consent of the third.
Art. 4. The council of Brabant to seal and
publilh the editfts, regulations, &c. in the usual
form.
Tliefe being all refufrd the Emperor has revok
ed all the charters of liberties granted to the
people of Brabant.—Their archives and trea
sure chelts have been sealed up by his officers,
and a committee is appointed to manage the cash
accounts of the province.
' It is easy to perceive how arbitrary this law is.
—The Nobleile and Clergy dare not refafe their
consent to the Emperor's will ; and if the above
articles were agreed to, the Commons would in
fa<ft become nothing more than proclaimers of
the laws agreed to by the other two Orders.
NEJV-TORK, SEPTEMBER 5.
It hqsbeen remarked, that since the outcry was raised about the
Copper Coin, the Silver has depreciated in valhe, and what is en
tirely unaccountable upon any just principles, quarters, eighths, and
fifteenths of dollars of the old stamp, are depreciated by many in
to piflareens, half piflareens, &c. The dollars and parts of dollars
of this description, are really worth a premiujn upon the value of
the new dollars, as is well known.
Money is so very plenty, and the fruits of the earth are so very
scarce, that it cannot be wondered at, that the solid coin (hould be
so little efteeroed !
Coppers \vith the jerfcy stamp, are now current at two for a
penny : It is to be hoped, that the mint maflers will be so moderate
as not to glut the market.
The period afligned for th,e prefenc feflion of Congress is draw
ing to a close. Perhaps some, and indeed moil of the public cre
ditors expected that in the course of this fefiion, the public debt
would have bern a fubjeft of coitfeinplation. However, had they
carefully eftiinated the objects that were to be previously accom
plilhcd, they could hardly nave supposed tWat so few months would
have brought our national legislation to so advanced a stage of the
bufineft, as that of PUBLIC CREDIT. Every refle&ing man
mud be convinced, that a good system of finance presupposes a
well-established, operative government. If attempts are too foou
made to fix appropriations, it is a thousand chances to but
that the calculations will be so fallacious, as to throw embarrass
ment and uncertainty over the face of public affairs. Some data
resulting from an experiment must be obtained before the impor
tant fubjeft of appropriation can be fafely intieduced and finally
decided.
The debates on the fubjett of a permanent feat of government
rcfleft the highest -honor on the abilities of the several speakers.
Great justice was done to the arguments on both fides, a»d the
fpettators, who were uncommonly numerous, exprefied their ap
probation of the candor, and their admiration for the talents that
were displayed on this interesting occasion. We will not pretend
to determine how far it was policy to introduce the queflion at the
present moment; but we can affirm that it has been ably and ho
norably coudu&ed.
There appears at the present day to be the happiest disposition
among all clafTes to give all due honor to our civil rulers, and to
pay a prompt obedience to the laws : This indication is among
the most auspicious presages of our country, for without domestic
peace, and tranquility, no art or profeflion can be pursued with
any degree of fetisfaaion—" the hope of reward sweetens labor " buG
if that hope is embittered by fear and anxiety, left the rcftlefs sons
of anarchy and discord should blow into a flame the coals of ftrife
and party rage, and thus check the operations of law and govern
ment, the hand of the diligent is unnerved, langour and idleness
succeed, and society is rendered less eligible than a state of nature.
Nature and art are combining to render the United States a great
and happy people the aufpiccs of the New Government.—
Providence is crowding the year with its bounty : The vegetable
world pours forth its trcafures in luxuriant profufion—a more
plentiful fcafon was perhaps never known—" the valleys are covered
with corn, and the hilU rejoice on every fide" —health in general per
vades our cities and towns—commerce from a thousand sources
pours her rich treasures iuto our lap—arts and husbandry are daily
receiving additional improvements—in these our inventions are
unparallelled. What gives the finifliing tint to the portrait is,
That our Country is free—our earnings our own—protected by a
wife, a just. and equal constitution of government.
The people of France never appeared in a more exalted point
of viewthan at the present important crisis. As friends to the
equal rights of human nature, Americans cannot be indifferent
fpc&ators of their glorious exertions in the cause of liberty—and
as allies and friends they cannot but wifta them a compleat tri
umph, in establishing a free constitution of governm£nt.
A correspondent wishes to enquire what personage is meant by the
letter writer from Frederick/burg in \our lafl, under the terms our.
Pk esidentwhether he weans the Piejidcntof a College in Virginia,
or of any particular club as which the Utter writer is a member ; for as
there are or may be more than oneperfon of the fme name who r/iay lose
a his account is too indefmte to be underflood. j^,.
AR RIVALS. NE W- YORK.
ftcdncfday, Sloop Ladv Haley, Tillinghaft, Rhode-Hland,
Schooner Sincerity, White, Baltimore, 10 days.
Sloop Herbert, Colley, Norfolk, 6 do.
Sloop Dolphin, Carpenter, Savanna, 8 do.
Brig William, Maftin, Madeira, 49 do, '
Thursday, Brig William, Harrifon, Dublin, 75 do.
Brig Hull Packet, I.awrance, Hull.
Sloop , Dominick, St. Augustine, .
Sloop Si. John, Nixcn, St. Thomas, 18 do.
Sloop John, Lowndes, St. Croix, 18 do.
Schooner Nancy, Clark, Baltimore, 7 do.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED,
(in continuation.)
I iIL example of Paulus is equally
lioflile to our author sfy (leni, and equally friend
ly to that which we contend for. The firfl consul
of thatnanie, the conqueror of Illyricum, in 533,
although he returned to Rome in triumph, yet, at
the expiration of his office, he was cited before
the people, in their tribes, and accused of having
converted part of the spoils to his own use. /Emi
-1 ius'had great difficulty to escape the condemna
tion which his colleague fuffered. This great pa
trician and consul commanded, and was killed at
the battle of Cannas. His son, of the fame name,
whole filter /Emilia was married to the great
Scipio, distinguished liimfelf by avoiding those
intrigues, solicitations, carefles, and other arti
fices, pracftifed by molt candidates, even at tliis
r \ me > 562- His pains were employed to make
himfelf esteemed by valour, justice, and ardour in
his duty, in which he furpafled all the young men
of his age. He carried the oedile/hip agaiiilt ten
competitors, every one of whom was so dis
tinguished by birth and merit as afterwards to ob
tain the conlulfliip. By his wife Pupiria he had
two foils, whom he procured to be adopted into
the molt illttflrious houses in Rome ; the ehlelt
by Fabi us maximus, five times consul and dicta
tor ; tlie younger by a son of Scipio Africanus.
His two daughters were married, one to a son of
Cairo he censor, and the other to Tubero. 111
he gained a complete victory over the Lufi
tanians, in which he killed them eighteen thou
land men, and took their camp, with thirteen
hundred prisoners. In the offices of xdile, and ol
augur, he excelled all his contemporaries in the
knowledge and practice of his duty: and military
discipline he carried to greater perfection than
had ever been kijown : nevertheless, when he
flood for any office, even in those virtuous times
there was always an opposition ; and he could not
obtain the consulship till after he had fuffered fe
deral repulses. Why? Because his virtue was toe
severe ; not for the senate, jjut the people ; and be
cause he would not flatter and bribe the people.
Before the end of the year of his firfl consulate
he fought the Ligurians, and gained a complete
victory over them, killing more than fifteen thou
sand men, and making near three tlioufand pri
soners, and returned to Rome in triumph : Yet
witli all his merit, when he flood candidate, fomc
years after, for the consulate, the people reject
ed him ; upon this he retired to educate his chil
dren. He was frugal in every thing of private
luxury, but magnificent in expences of public
duty. Grammarians, rhetoricians, pliilofophers.
sculptors, painters, equerries, hunters, were pro
cured for the inflruction of his children. While
he was thus employed in private life, in 583, four
teen years after his firfl consulship, the affairs of
the Republic were ignoranily conducted, and the
Macedonians, with Perfeiis at their head, gained
great advantages againlt them. People were not
fatisfied v. ith the conduct of their consuls of late
years, and began to fay, that the Roman name
was not supported. The cry was, that the com
mand of the armies niuft 110 longer be given to
faction and favor. The Angular merit of jEmi
lius, his splendid f'ervices, the confidence which
the troops had in his capacity, and the urgent
lieceffity of the times for his wisdom and firmnefs,
turned all eyes upon him. All his relations, and
the senators in general, urged him to stand can
didate. He had already experienced so much
ingratitude, injuflice, and caprice, that he shun
ned the present ardor, and chose to continue in
private life. That very people who had looften
ill used him, and rejected him, now crowded
before his door, and infilled on his goino- to the
; and his presence there was universally
considered as a sure presage of victory, and he
was unanimously elected consul, and appointed
commander in Macedonia. He conquered Per
seus and his Macedonian Phalanx, and in the
battle he formed Fabiufes and Scipios to be
the glory and triumph of his country after him.
He plundered the immense wealth of Macedonia
and Epirus : he plundered seventy cities, and
demolished their walls. The spoils were fold,
and each soldier had two hundred denarii, and
each of the horse four. The soldiers and com
mon people, itfeems, had little of that disinter
estedness for which /Emilius was remarkable.
They were so offended at their general forgiving
so little of the booty to tliem, and reserving so
much to the public treasury, that they raised a
great cry and opposition against his triumph ; and
Galba, the soldiers, and their friends among the
plebeians, were determined to teach the great
men, the consuls, generals, &e. to be less public
fpirited—to defraud the treasury of its wealth,
and be 'low it upon them : they accordingly op
posed the triumph of this great and difinterefled
general, and the firfl tribes absolutely rejected it.
—Who, upon this occasion, saved the honour
juflice, and dignity ofthe republic ? Nottheple
beiaus but senators. The senators were highly
enraged at t his infamous in ] uflice and ingratitude,
and this daring effort of pioputar licentioufhefs
and avarice, and were obliged to make a noise,
and excite a tumult. Servilius, too, who been
consul, and' had killed three and twenty en
emies who had challenged him in.single combat,
made a long Ipeecli, in which he lliewed the
baseness of their conduct in so linking alight,
that he made the people ashamed of tliemfelves ;
and at length they conlented to the triumph,but to
all appearance more from a desire to fee the show
of Perseus laden with chains,lcd through the city
belore the ch iriot of the vitftor, than from any
lioneft and public spirited design to reward merit.
1 he lum which he caused to be carried into the
public treasury on the day of the triumph was
one million three hundred thousand pounds ster
ling, and caused the taxes of the Roman people
to be abolished. At his death, after the sale of.
part of his slaves, moveables, and some farms, to
pay his wife's dower, the remainder of his fortune
was but nine thousand three hundred and fe
v enty-five pounds sterling. As he was dcfcendecl
from one of the moll noble and ancient houses of
Rome, illustrious by the highest dignities, the
fmallnefs oi his fortune reflects honor on his an
cestors as well as on liimfelf. The love of sim
plicity was flill supported in lome of the great
families, by extreme care not to ally tliemfelves
with luxurious ones ; and vimiilius chose Tubero,
of the family of ./Elii, whose firft piece of plate
was a silver cup of five pounds weight, given him
by his father-in-law. These few families item
raed the torrent of popular avarice and extrava
gance.
EUROPEAN ACCOUNTS, BY LATE ARRIVALS.
St. Petersrurgh, May 15. The son of Ge
neral Kaniefkoy, who commands the army in
Moldavia, arrived here yesterday with the news,
that 011 the 27th of April, General Derfelden
compelled the Turks to retreat to within twenty
xverlts of Brailla, near Mackfunene, 011 the river
Sireth. Jn this 40® of the enemy were
killed, and a considerable number drowned. A
Pacha of Two Tails, who commanded in Molda
via, was taken prisoner, with about 100 men, one
piece of cannon, and three standards.
A second Courier arrived this day from Gene
ral Kamefkoy, with an account that on the 30th
April, General Derfelden had attacked the ene
my in the camp near Galata, 011 the Danube, and
that after an obstinate engagement of more than
three hours, lie had totally defeated them. Fif.
teen hundred Turks were billed, and a Pacha
oi 1 lir'ee 1 ails, with a considerable number of
officers, and above 1000 men taken prisoners.
The cainp, with the artillery, standards, &c. feli
into the hands of the conquerors, whose loss
amounted only to 60 men killed,and 100 wounded.
Vienna, May 30. Intelligence has been re
ceived that the Grand Vizir, with an army of
t 00,000 men has left Rufchuck, and is advancing
along the banks of the Danube, towards
in Servia.
London, July i. According to advices from
Gibraltar, the arrival of Admiral Peyton's crui
zers inform, that the States of Barbary, Algiers,
1 unis, Tripoli, Barca, &c. are making much
more formidable naval preparations than were
ever before known at any period of time whate
ver; all in aid of the Ottoman Porte in its wara
gainft the two Imperial Courts. It was even said
that tliefe conjoint forces are meant to attack some
of the Imperial or Tuscan ports in Italy.
By the last advices from Madras, we learn that
General Meadows was on his way from Bombay,
to succeed Governor Campbell, but that he had'
not then arrived.
General Meadows is to be succeeded by General
Abercrombie, in the government of Bombay.
Much praise is due to Sir Archibald Campbell,
for the excellent slate of defence in which he has
left the Carnatic. The disposition of the troops
ftatloned in that province, is such as does honorto
his military Jkilf, while it eifetftually secures, at
the fame time, that province from the sudden in
sults of Tippoo Sultan.
July 2. All attempt is said to have been made on
the life of Monf. Necker, by poison ! The Minister
however, happily discovered the matter in time to
prevent its effects ; for the dish which he had tail
ed, upon_ further trial, killed a dog ; and some
fiiuff, which had been conveyed into a box before
him, in a few minutes destroyed another animal !
111 the last attempt, the artifice was this : The
box was a jac simile of Mr. Neckar's, and it was
placed, according to (hat gentleman's cultom, 011
the mantle-piece. He had a narrow escape, for
the box was in his hand, when he discovered his
own in his pocket ! ! !
It is needless to add, that Mr. Neckar is now on
.us guard ; his chief food is hen's e<rgs, which
Madame Neckar fees boiled in her own room.
The spirit of the people, now urged on by def
peiation, seems capable of the mofl darino- at
tempt. Ihe 7 ters Etat, of the Commons, as they
are proud to call themselves, are prevailine more
and more The only rjueftion now is,—whether
the foldiefy will or will not adhere to the Court
If the army prefer the intrefls of their fellow
citizens to thole of the Crown, there is an end to
the (lelpotifm of the French Monarch!
\ !
ABn.DGc.MENr of the STATE of. POLITICS for last
FRANCE.
AMIDS T the various figures that fill UD t i,„
litical scenery for this week, the moft,w P °'
still is the com motions in France The dHV'' C "° US
i„ that kingdom f« m „„„ t0 bc
foine caVaftrophe. We wait,
for the eventful ilTue. The Third £ltate ,'
in number to the Nobility and the Clergy iS
have allumed to themselves all the powen ?f?'
States General. They have endeavored t °£
vert their decrees into laws, which the?l!
printed, publilhed, and diitribnted in the 1
vinces. Detachments to Ipeak in the mili? ar °v
stile which must 100-.be too powerful,
Nobility and Clergy have joined their corps - ai
thus a foundation is laid for a civil war which
it now appears, is altogether inevitable • f ort „
order of the Nobles, formidable by their num.
beis, weaiih, high l'pirus, and Connections in the
army have lent a remonstrance to the Kine in
which they express their resolution to mainrah
the perogatives of the Crown, and the preron
tives of their own order. This body, rendered
compact and mdivilible by a military spirit anda
fenie of honor, presents a front of opposition
that is not to be appalled by threats, nor eulily
cajoled by concessions. The French nation is
therefore divided into two great parties ; or rather
they have fallen into two div-fions. The Kim
under the influence of Mr. Neckar, and the Cora'
111011s lorin one division ; the great body of the
Nobility and the Clergy the other. In these cir
cuinftances an appeal will naturally be made to
the army. It is said that several gentlemen of the
army have caught the infection of freedom as
well as the mals of the people. The Frenchrecri
ments thatferved in America, in thelate war,are
particularly diltinguifhed, as might have been
naturally expected,by their zeal for liberty. Were
this enthufiai'm general among the military <ren
tlemen, the mutters in dispute would be fetlled
at once. But this, we have been allured by pri
vate intelligence, which we cannot doubt, is by
no means the cafe. The great part, by far, of
the officers of the army, commi'llioned and non
commiflioned, dependent on the crown for their
f übliftence, their consequence in society* and their
luture views, fee with jealousy the riling powti
of an order of men whom they were accullomed
to treat with insolent contempt. And though the
present Monarch, Louis XVI. leans towards the
Commons, they conlider this as a dereliction of
the Royal Prerogatives ; as a temporary phrenzy
which connot be lalling. They make adiftinc
tioli, in short, between the person of the Sove
reign, whole sentiments and inclinationsare un
certain, and the Throne, which they conlider as
fixed and permanent.
EAST-INDIES.
By late advices from India, we have been in
formed, that our affairs in that quarter wear a
flourilhing afpe<si, though there be a pretty gene
ral dillatisfaction among the fervantsof the Com
pany, as might be expected, at the rigorous
reforms carried on by Lord Cornwallis. In a
political view it may be questioned, how far it is
prudent, before the powers of our govemmentbe
more accurately defined, and our authority more
firmly rooted in India, to dry up the resources by
which individuals acquire fortunes ; or to dil
courage men of family and spirit from entering
into the Company's service. Presents and per
quilites are natural in Alia.
THE NATIONAL MONITOR No. XVIII.
" Combine ye sons of freedom, ah, combine,
" 7 he people are invincible who join;
" Fuel ions and feuds will overturn the State,
u Which union renders flonrifhing and great.
AT the commencement of the revolution, Union
was the word.—We juflly considered this as the gnat
axis 011 which our political exif/ence turned. Our t%-
perience verified the idea ; for,
11 'Twos Union fav'dvtin the trying hour."
Can it be thought less important thatwe Jkould be as full)
impressed -with this important fentimentnow! Jtcan
not.—This led us to empire and independence. —This
has given us the glory of this wtf
em region, and the envy and admiration of the worli-
Union alone can preserve and perpetuate this intf
timable jewel—without which Freedom is but *
name.—Laws, and government being perhaps more
necessary to its preservation, than they are for the ft
curity of life and property The Conflitution has faf
fed a fiery trial, and Hike gold has come forth wit'
additional lufire —it is now the " Sutreme La*
of the Land"—that great uniting bond that holds
the States together,and on which all our hopes of nation"'
happiness am}glory depend.—Let us then view with ab
horrence and indignation, every• attempt to fo'Ji J"'
feeds ofjealouj), dijlruft and dijunion among ourftl vcs
—every effort to injure, deface, or depreciate the
merits of the Conflitution. In an especial manner It
us spurn every attempt to fully the -reputation,
the feelings, or dejlroy the ttfefulnsfs of those j> at '
rioticcharacters, which the people have appoint
to admit/iJJ'er the new Government. There ar!
sons in every community whose element is confufon "
for the people to countenance such incendiaries, is to J'
their own house on fire. _
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maide* 1
Lane, nearthc Ojwego-Markct, New-York. —[3 dol-.p r ' ar^