[No. XXI.]
THE table T. No. XXI.
, . I.lamented that men will be making themfehes greaterfools
" H turc intended theyJliouU be, by endeavoring to make them/elves
jif BE jre fame minds that are naturally fa weak or wrong
■ -J that every attempt to improve them Iccms only to
1 ale their inherent fmperfeftions. When a man of this (tamp
"Ta li to a labonous occupation, his mental crookedness and
•f'J " so concealed, that he may be a fool all his life, withou.
anv ftrikin? demonstrations of his folly. But ihould it so
r« that he is born to better fortune, as he will call it, he will
P1 aiveraine further and further from realon and propriety as
®° he lives We will iuppo<e his time is devoted to liteiary
t,H\. a In commencing his education he fcts out with lorn,
1 jy.ee, he had imbibed in his infancy ; and the fallacy
which, his mind is too weak to dctcft. Every Hep he takes in
only calculated to render his folly and weakness more
fhi That knowledge which is founded in the reason and na
!"lof things docs not affimilatc with his former imprcflTions.
Through the whole tenor oi his life, his mind fcems biassed both
fZ nature and habit, against the reception of truth. There is
. Mooenfity >n his understanding to distort or adulterate every idea,
noon which it is exercised. His discernment is so dcfe&ive, that
rverv error, he adopts from prejudice or caprice, becomes a per
octual one It is incrcdible what a mass of incongruous opinions,
rod ill-formed images can enter into a finale mind, where there is
not natural iagaeity to correct falfe impreflions by experience.
But it may be supposed that these error-makinz people have an
opportunity of acquiring ftich information, as results from feeing
•he world, in walks of life that are fafhionable and elevated. Here
it raav be expected they would adopt a juftcr way of thinking.
The event however will prove otherwise. It mult be confeffed,
t]iey sometimes have capacity to learn how to regulate their ex
terior deportment, by some rules of lafhion and propriety ; though
I have known instances, where their natural perverfenefe prevail
ed even in this refpe&. To lay nothing more of their manners,
we will turn our attention to the course of then sentiments. These,
it will be found, are perpetually (luftuating, but never change for
the better. If they are laughed out of some foibles, they are du
ped into many vices and follies, and every new turn is worfc than
the laA. Their want of penetration unavoidably dire&s them to
a bad choice of examples. Truth always eludes them ; and their
minds bccomc the receptacle of polite errors, inftcad of the liter
ary ones I have been delcribing. Such men never judge right of
anything they observe; and the Jess they fee, or the lets they know,
the less deformed does their understanding appear.
Wlfen foch men return from their travels, forthey probably will
travel we can form no idea, without being in their company, wbat
(illy and ufclefs psattlc they bring home. They determine noth
ing by any tcft of intrinsic merit, and will run into an extravagance
ofapplauicupon trifles too vain to be noticed ; while they deal in
aaecdoles too improbable to be believed, or too urfinterefting to
be regarded. Their indigeftcd opinions and half-ftattd fads con
vince every pcrfon who fees them, that such wrong-headed, or
weak-headed travellers encreafe their folly fafler than their infor
mation.
Where such an imbecility or obliquity of judgment is deeply
root?tj io nature, 1 question whether it admits of any remedy.
OMcurnymay hide it, but fludy and obfervationcan never improve
it.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
h\kHwfe (/REPRESENTATIVES /A*UNITED STATES
Wednesday, June 17, 1789.
The qutftion, Whether the Secretary of Fmtign Affairs fliculd be re
turnable by the President ? still under consideration.
Mr. Ha&tle'y advocated the principle. He made some in
troductory observations on the neccflity and importance of the
office under consideration, and its intimate connexion with the
executive department; and maintained that in whatever hands this
department was placed, the ottice ought to beimmediately depen
dent on, ardcontroulable by it. This was the policy of the con
stitution, and was the pra&ice, he believed, of all nations with
whom he was acquainted. It could not be confidercd an office
held during good behaviour. The constitution had particularly
pointea out those who held their places by this tenure; they were
■ 'le judges alone. He conceived that the gentleman trom South
Carolina deviated widely from juil conftruftion, in ftippoftng
that the clause refpeding impeachments extended to every office
in the government. This principle would be inconvenient, mif
chievousanddeftru&ivetoalldecifion in the administration. The
fane gentleman had,he said, contended that every man had a pro
perty in his office. This idea he hoped would never find ad
vocates in this house.
In Great-Britain it had prevailed to a pernicious degree. It
wasthe practice there to give a man a pension who was removed
f rom office, in consideration of the inter eft which he was deprived
°f. He hoped we should never admit this corrupt and ruinous
practice among us.
The gentleman, he observed, had qucftioned the right of the
legislature to make a conftrudion on the constitution, or in cafe it
wasfilent, to supply the defeat.—He could not agree to this. The
■oftronect had expressly given it the power to make all laws
recefiaryto carry the constitution intrt etfe&. If it was silent
therefore, in any point ncccflary to be fettled, in order to put it in
operation, the inference was clear, that Congress had a right to
fopply the defefi.
He concluded with Come observations to prove that the power
wcuid be more fafely lodged with the President than the Senate,
, that the conferring the power of removal on the Senate would
j-cpnvcj the President of some of the most important executive
it ions, which few as they were, ought not to fuffer the least
diminution.
Mr. Laurance observed, that it had been obje&ed against
"C clause, that the powers which it vested were unconstitutional,
311 not only so but unnecefTarv, M the constitution rauft contain
,n >t.tlf somewhere the power under consideration which it had
fjiun to some man or tody of men. And therefore that it was un -
fiect ary (or a law to interfere, which could norther enlarge, di
: lni '' or this power. If it was unconstitutional to give
r o e . >rc ' l^ent i *1 VOv)4 only be because it had been vested in
• ™e other body ; it had not been contended that the constitution
vested it in the senate ; and otherwise it could not be
with ccrtainty that be uucouftitutional for thclegi
ore to declare that the President Ihould have it ; but the ob
iw 3 ecnco^c &cd from the nature of that body who Hid
n ?PP°' ntments > and from the clause in the constitution
ja lr ,S 'ppcachments. The constitution he observed, declar
lf thit 1 Jr®®* fiiould hold their officcs during good behavior,
there U ° U asto an >' cfFeft, it certainly must imply that
01 ior UC [ ° ero ® cers who held their placcs during plcafure,
good be! t ' me »or ofticers held their places during
we I r wei c removenble only by impeachment, then
»u c was ufclefs. The perfou have jtjifbehaved before
WEDNESDAY, June 24, 1789.
he could be impeached. But if he were infirm or incapable, he
could not be impeached, but mufton this principle be perpetuated
•n office.
But it had been urged that we -were to fcek for the power of
removal in\he nature of the authority which appointed. H re he
would be willing to meet the gentleman, if it were necelfary to
reft the cause on this point alone. He would a(k who, by the
onftitution, had the power of appointing. It was true, it had
iven the Senate an advisory power, but it had considered the ap
pointment to be by the President. It had expressly defclared,
that he (hould nominate and appoint, though their advice was
rendered necelfary. This was given in the strongest language.
' he appointment was in the President, and in him (hould be al
'o the removal. But it had been obje&ed that it would be an ex
tenfionof the executive power. This was not true ; or if there
was any weight in the argument, it would apply against the rea
soning of gentlemen in favour of veiling the power with the Pre
sident and Senate conjointly. If it could be said, that the Prefi
iident's functions and powers ought not to be extended, it could
also be said that t'nofeof the Senate could not.
The constitution he said was lilent on this fubjefl; it was also
iilent refpedling the removal of those whole appointment it had
enabled the legifiature to veil in the Piefidcnt, in the heads of
departments or n the courts of law—but nothing about their re
moval. Now the legifiature, having in pursuance of this autho
rity, veftcd the power of appointing in the President, could the
(.onftitution becarried intoeffett if the legifiature had no right to
determine in whom the powcT of difmiifing Ihoulc reside ? What
was the consequence? Why, in those cases, the power of remo
val muftbe in the President, and the Congress mull, from the ne
celfity of the thing have the right to determine this. Of course,
in cases where the constitution had originally given the power of
appointment to the President, he mull for the fake of consistency
have the power of r?moval. Certainly noperfon would pretend
that if the legifiature should give the President the sole power to
appoint in certain cases, and there was no special limitation of the
otftce, that he (hould not in those cases have the sole power to re
move. Thus then, he said, stood the business. There was no ex
press words prohibiting the power ; and all the ideas collected
from inference pointed out the legality and propriety of investing
the President with the power ; at Icaft they proved that he had
every constitutional right to it, which the Senate, together with
the President could claim. ,
This had, he said, been called a cafe omitted : But in omitted
cases in which a certain provifionwas absolutely elfential to the
acitniniftration, who was to make this provision and supply the
defe£l ? Undoubtedly the legifiature. It was the only authority
in any measure competent to it.
Mr. Laura nce a(ked if any gentleman supposed that the pow
er of expounding the constitution and of providing for the remo
val from office could be more securely trailed to the wildom and
integrity ot one branch of the legifiature than the whole; or if
it would be more fatisfaftory to tnc people to have the power of
displacing officers in the Senate than in the President? He said
the people looked up to the legislature as their great security and
the center of political wisdom. They naturally supposed that
where any provisions were neceftary to be made, conftru£live and
declarative of the constitution, that from this source, and this alone
they ought to From all thcfc circum fiances, he conclu
ded that the Congrcfs had the right, and that it was their duty to
supply the deficiency in the constitution.—The fame constitution,
which had given them the power of eftablilhing offices, had gi
ven them a right of making all the particular provisions, whene
ver the constitution was nlcnt, which were neceiTary to carry
that general power into effett.
In the contemplation of the constitution, he observed the heads
:>f the executive departments were mere servants and aids of the
President. He had the superintendence* the controul, and the
nfpe£lion into their conduct. They were not only to perform
the regular duties of their function, but, to aflift the President
with their occasional council, and to answer all questions which
he (hould put to them refpe&i'ng the execution of their offices.
Thefecircuijiftances would give him such advantages of discove
ring the secret delinquencies, the faults, the deficiency of abili
ties or know lege of those whom he employed, that he alone could
b-competent to an able excrcife of this authority. Under such
:ircumftanccs, would gentlemen deprive him of the power of
pursuing the; intereftso! the United States.
But it had been urged, said Mr. Laurakce, that the trust
cvas fubjett toabufes; that there might be wanton changes of of
ficers, and revolutions in all the departments, on the acccffion o!
"very new President.—He contended that changes were proper,
when he who was the only judge' of their necef&ty thought them
expedient. A new President ought to have the power on hisac
ceffion, to bring forward those men, in whom he was sure he
:ou!d place the highest confidence. Underthe guards and checks
under which the chief mag-.ftrate acted, it whs to be presumed
hat changes would not take place from capricious motives, but
from principles of policy, and propriety.
He said he did not make his calculations of the fafety of the ad
ministration upon the merit of the present chief magistrate, whoft
talents and virtues were the admiration of the world, but he had
the heft grounds to ptefume, that no man would ever be elected
to that exalted office, who had not given abundant proofsof his
anilities, integrity, and other great qualities requilite for such a sta
tion.
He begged gentlemen to consider that the President was liable
to impeaehmcnr, for ha\ ing difplaccd a good man who enjoyed
the confidence of the people.
But it was not proper he said to view the fubjeft on one fide
alone—the difficulties on one fide as well those on another, ought
to be contemplated.—He here mentioned the nece(fity, on the
gentleman's plan, of the Senate being perpetually assembled, or
of the President's convening them for the purpose of a removal,
from the extremes of the continent. He instanced the cafe of a
foreign minister negociating and intriguing to the injury of his
country, who before a sentence of recal could be procured from
the Senate, might have completed his machinations, and involved
the republic in ruin.
Mr. Jackson conceived this to be altogether a constitutional
question. He was convinced of the neceflity of energy in the
executive, but he was sure the liberties of the people deserved
equal attention and care. Of two evils it was proper to chose the
lenft. It had been mentioned, that in all governments the exe
cutive necessarily had the power of difmifling officers under him.
That might hold good in Europe, but it did not apply to our con
stitution, by which the President had not the executive powers
exclusively. The Senate was aflociated with him, and investing
them with any particular authority could not impair the energy
of the executive. If this arrangement was wrong, the fault was only
in the constitution, and it could be remedied only by amendment.
He dreaded the dangers to which this power would expose us .It
would eftabHfh a fatal system of influence in the government. We
(hould have a treasury bench, and a croud of the President's crea
tures in the house. His ministers would intrude here, and lead and
govern the measures of legislation.
The gentlemen, he said, had contended that there might be cases
where the officer was unfit for his station ; by reafonof infnrmity,
\Publijhed on Wednesday and Saturday.
incapacity, and other qualities not punishable—He might fink into
dotage* or be seized with a fit of lunacy. It was proper, therefore,
that some filcnt remedy should be applied. It was t rue this might
happen, and so it might happen to others, whom there was n »
mode of removing. Suppose the President should be taken with
a fit of lunacy, would he not continue in office during his four
years ? Suppose the Senate Ihould be seized, or the representatives
rhemfelves become lunatics, would not the people be obliged to
submit to this mad Congress ? We had alreaty, he faidj seen *
King of Great-Britain a lunatic, and the fame might be the cafe
with our President ; and although it was improbable that a majority
of this house should be lunatics, it was by no means impoflible.
It was also urged, that the judges alone were to hold their offices
during good behaviour. It was admitted that they ought to. Bun
was not a judge, as well as other exceutive officers, liable to the
ast of God, which might deprive him of his faculties and his le
gal knowledge ? Yet he must continue in office till impeached and
convicted of some crime.
Was it politic, he asked, to place the officers in such a situation
as to deprive them of all their independency and firmnefs ? Had
not the Prefidentthe command of the army, and would he not have
the treasury undrr his thumb ? Thefecretiry of the finances would
never dare oppose him, and would leave him unchecked to exer
cise his powers. Then, he said, we might bid adieu to liberty,
and all the blessings of genuine republicanism. He begged gen
tlemen to consider the deadly influence of the crown in England,
where offices were held during the pleasure of the King. Let gen
tlemen turn their eyes to Sweden, and behold the monarch (hut
ting the doors upon his Senate, and compelling them to submit to
his despotic ordinances. He affirmed that the error of gentlemen
lay in calculating upon the merit of the present chief magillrate,
as if he was to continue for ever. With him he was confident
every power might be lodged But he was not immortal ; the
period must come when he would be taken from us. Could we
be sure who would fuccced him ? Might not a man come into the
office who carried a Pandora's box in his breast.
The business of conftru&ion, he observed, was a dangerous busi
ness. One of the favorite amendments proposed to the constitu
tion was, a provision that all power which was not expressly given
to the Congress, was retained. Under this idea, the conftitutioh
was adopted ; and was it proper now to construe the constitution,
so as to give extraordinary powers not before vested? The legisla
ture had nothing but the letter of that compact to go by, and the
moment a deviation was made from this* the House was making!
an arbitrary stride towards an arbitrary government.
Mr. Jackson v/as willing to confcnt that in cafe of a recess of the
Senate, the President might have power to make a temporary sus
pension. If an officer was guilty of any misdemeanor, he truftcd
that there would be always virtue enough in the house of repre
sentatives to impeach him.
Mr. Clymek remarked, that were he to give his vote merely
as it refpefted the conilitution, he should be indifferent whether
the words were ft ruck out or not; for he was clear that the exe
cutive had the power of removal as incident to his department—
With refpcfl to appointments, the Senatt was only a check on the
Picfident, to prevent his filling offices with unworthy men. In
Uie cafe of removal there is not such a neceflity for this check ;
for suppose a worthy man should be difmifed, what great danger
or ineonvcnience would follow from it f Mull he not consult the
Senate in filling the vacancy ? and would he have a better chance
of procuring their consent to advance an improper chara&er, than
in the firft appointment ? The prcfumption therefore, only waft
that one good man would be changed for another.
If the power was not given to the executive, he would want
the btft power of doing good. He would be an inefficient officer ;
would only a£l by the agency of others, and would be,deftitute of
responsibility.
It would be entirely frivolous, he faidj to call the people toge
ther every four years to choose a President, if when chosen, he
ihould be a mere cypher in the government, to nominate for the
Senate to appoint ; and to propose in order for the Senate to re
move. It would be as proper to give the whole executive autho
rity to the senate at once. If this power was denied the President,
he declared that the government would be as destitute of energy
as any in the universe*
Mr. Pace was infavor of the motion. He contended that the
clause would cftablifh a dangerous power in the hands of the Pre
sident, and was in dirett opposition to that clause in the consti
tution which provides for the impeachment of officers. He af
fcrted, that the clause contained in it the feeds of royal preroga
tive. It appeared to him that everything which had been said
inlhe House refpefting energy in the executive, might he carried
to the deftru6tion of a free govercment. This very energy so
much talked of, had led many patriots to the Baftile, to the block,
and to the halter* If the President might take a man from the
hejid of a department without assigning a reafon,he might as well
be vested with a power, on certain occafvons, of taking away his
exiflence. The idea was not confonart to the principles of a free go
vernment, where no man ought to be condemned unheard; nor
till after a fair and solemn trial, He would rather fuffer for a
time the mifchiefs arising from the adminiftratiofl of a bad offi
cer* than to fee a dangerous prerogative vested in the chief magi
strate, which might lead to despotism. He knew that gentlemen
supported the principle from honest motives : He knew they
were friends to the g©vernment, but he thought they were in an
unhappy error.
Mr. Sherman wasoppofed to the clause.—He conceived that
the paragraph in theconftitution refpefting appoirrtmens, was pro
vided for some ufeful purpose; but it appeared to him that on rhc
conftruttion of the gentlemen, it would be defeated. He thought
that the concurrence of the Senate was as necessary to the very
nature of an appointment, as the nomination of the President.—
They were mutual checks and had each a negative. He consi
dered it as an established principle,that the appinting power should
have the right to remove, except where there was an express re
tyriftion, as in the cafe of the judges, who held their places du-*
ring good behaviour. Were it not for that reftriftion, the Pre
sident and Senate might displace them. It was, he said, a gene
ral principle in law as well as reason, that the fame authority
was necclfary to repeal as to establish. It was so in legi flat ion,
1 he several branches whose concurrence was requisite to pass an
a£t, must also concur to repeal it. He supposed that if a lav/ was
parted, giving the Prefidentthe exclusive appointment of certain
inferior officers, he would also have the power of removing them.
Butthis was not an inferior officer. Hewas placedat the head of a
great department, and his appointment was constitutionally vested
in the President and Senate. If gentlemen would suppose that
this was a subordinate officer who was to be in aid of the Pre
sident, there a question might arise, whether his appointment
could not, by law, be vested in the executive ? For being an
executive officer, and the President being the great executive, the
President might be supposed to be properly the head of that de
partment. This realoning however was not to be admitted—He
was an officer within the meaning of the constitution, who might
have authority given him to make subordinate appointments, and
therefore it was necessary that the Senate should have a voice in his
appointment. As the office was a mere creature of the legislature,
it might b« limited in its power and duration: the officer mightbe annually ele&ed, and displaced for certain crimcs,:vS negle£tor
duty. '
Mr. Stone (Maryland) considered it the duty of the House to
determine on the question. He was oppoied to the leaving it so;
the decision ot a court of law or any other power than the legisla
ture.
When the qneftion was brought forward, his mind, he said, wa
in doubt. He had reflected upon it, and had formed an opinion
which was entirely fatisla£tory to himfelf. He thought thatevery
officer should be immoveable by the power that appointed him.
Jt was in the very nature of things. The power ot appointment
?rofe from a powerover the fubjett on which the officer was to ast ;
it was founded on an inttreft which the principal posT fled in the
tranfa&ions of his agent. Therefore in general, appointing offi
cers appeared to be nothing more than authorizing agents for the
dispatch of bufinefc. This was in his opinion an eltablifhed prin
ciple, and it would operate from a Minister ot State down to a
tide -waiter* The constitution, it had been admitted, recognized
this principle, and it could not be denied but that when general
appointments were made, they were during will and pleasure ;
that where appointments weic made during good behavior, they
were exceptions from the general rule, in which the cxercife of
the creating power was limited.
He would examine whence originated the power of Congress
rcfpe&ing these offices. He presumed that if it was veftcd in Con
grefsj by clear deduction from that inftrumcnt, to ere£fc depart
ments,thr-t no gentleman would consent to diminish it, or rcftritt
them in theexereife of it. The Congrcfs had power to levy and
collett tiixcs. This would include to ellabhfh an office ot trea
sury—to regulatecommerce with foreign nations, and with Indian
tribes. This comprehended a power ofere6fing a board of trade,
&c. and in order to carry these powers into execution, they were
to make all laws neceflary to carry the constitution into efTefh
Now it appeared to him that the eftabliihment of this department
was clearly w ithin'ftie constitution, and that as Congress, in their
Jegiflative capacity, had an interest in, and power ovef the whole
affairs of the department, they might appoint and displace its of
ficers. But again, the constitution had limited the legislature
"with refpeft to appointments, and given them to the President
and Senate. The question then wa? whether the Senate, having a
ihare in appointing, did not possess the power of removal as inci
dental to it.
Mr. S:one asked, what qualities were necefTary for an appoint
ment that were not requisite for difmifTing ? Information, impar
tiality, and judgment in the business to be condu&ed. Were not
the fame qualities neceflary in order to dismiss ? He was not able
tofubferibe to the principle, that the executive in its nature com
prehended a neceflary power of appointing or removing officers.
Why did it imply it r* The appointment of officers lequiring qua
lities which are neceflary to judge of the meritsof men—fothe dif
mifTing them—to know what was necefTary for an executive offi
cer—what for a judge, See.
Thisknowlege was acquired by experience, and might belong
to one body of men as well as another. In the nature of t!:in~s,
therefore, there was no necefTiry connexion between the executive
functions, and the power of removal. That body whieh could
best judge of the qualities necefTary to tranfa6l business, were the
most proper dilpoftrs of offices, and if it was contended that the
executive magistrate was in the belt fitnation, and under the belt
advantages to judge of these qualities, still this was a mere matter
of fa6t, whicli might depend on circumltances ; and the nature of
the office did not neceflarilv involve the capacity of 'lidding, or
imply the power of exercising that judgment.
Mr. Stone then took notice of the principles which had been
contended tor, in another view, as it applied to the fnuation of
other nations where a hereditary monarch was eftabliihed, who
had a personal property in the government and administration,
aud who was considered as the natural fountain of honor and of
fice. It wasfuppofed that he had neceflarily the power of choo
fmg and controling those who were to manage his property Eat
this had no application to ourcountry, where the chief magistrate
had nofpecicsot property in the government, and was not the
master ; but the great fervantof the people.
These circumitancci concurred to prove that the President of the
United States had no natural right to be the sole judge of the mer
its of officers ; and as tar as he could conclude from examining the
constitution. it never intended to beflow itupon him.
It therefore struck his mind that all coptroul of officers inde
pendent of the agency of the Senate, was confined to the cafe of
I'uch inferior officers, the appointment of which the constitution
hid enabled the legislature to vest solely in him. It flru6t him al
io that as to the power of pardoning, the President should be pre
cluded from the exereife of this* power, in cafe where the Senate
had convitted an offender. So that it appeared to him, that the
Senate were a body to whom the constitution had given great
weight in the executive scale, and in the administration of govern
ment.
In determining whether it was proper on the score of expedien
cy to give the p wertothe President, or to him with the Senate,
the degree or confidence which was to be placed in those bodies
were to be considered : Was it more probable, he asked, that one
man should do wrong, or that a number of men, chosen with equal
care, and atting tinder the fame obligations, should do wrong ?
Where were the greatest obstacles? Who would have the grcatcft
objects to attain ?
He concluded with proposing that the President should have the
power of suspension, in order to remedy a difficulty which had
been fuggefled in cafe of a rccefs of the Senate, when it became
necefTary to punish i-n officer by removal.
Mr. Madison : I feel the importance of the question before
us, as our decision will be a permanent cxpofition of the constitu
tion in this point, and as on this decision will depend, in a great
degree, the genius and character of our government. On the de
termination which will uow take place, will depend perhaps the
preservation of the government on that equal balance which the
constitution defigncd. It is therefore of the utmost importance
that we weigh the fubje6l with the most cautious deliberation. I
own to you, I feel an anxi ty on thi-s fubje£t. I feel anxious,
becaufel am called on to give my voice on a question which may
cfle£t the fundamental principles of the government. I3ut all
that I can do on an occasion of this kind, is to weigh the argu
ments which have been advanced 'on both fides, with an honest
defireto discover the truth, and to form my opinion under the
influence of an attachment to that spirit of liberty, which this con
ititutioii is happily calculated to preserve.
Several conftru£tiors have been put on the constitution, rela
tive to the point in question. It has been contended that the
power of difplacmgfrom office is fubje&to o legislative difcreti
ori, which is to create and to modify.—At firft fight, Sir, this
<lo6lrine appears considerably plausible. But wh n I consider
that a prime object of the constitution was to maintain a marked
diftin£ri«tn between the legislature, executive, «md judicial de
partments. and when I consider that the legislature, on this
principle of discretion, may transfer at their pleasure, powers
from one department to another—that they may narrow the ex
ecutive, confer new powers on the Senate, and enlarge the gene
jal mr.fsoft eir own authority; when I consider the confequcn
ces of this do&rine, and compare them with the true objects o!
theco' ftitution, I own I cannot subscribe to it.
Another do&rine, which has a very rcfpeftable patronage, is
that when an officer is appointed, he can be removed only by im
peachment, for some mifdemcanor in office. This would give
a permanency to the executive system, which would be more in
compatible with the genius of repubheanifm thnn any principle
that could be advocated. The danger to liberty, the danger of
despotism has never been found to spring so much from the diffi
culty of procuring virtuous men to fill the officcs of government
as the difficulty of displacing those who have been found un
worthv of trull. If it be said that an officer when once appoint
ed, should not be removed without a crime and eonvi&ion, I
would be clad to know what security there would be for a faith
rul administration of the government. —Every individual between
the highest aud lowest link irt the long chain of executive magif
racy, would find a security, which would gteatly relax his fide
lity in the discharge of his duty.
Ado&riiie which Hands most in opposition with the principle
we have contended for, is, that the power to make appointments
mplies in its own nature a power of removal as incidental to it.
If nothing more was said in the constitution than that the Presi
dent, with the Senate, should appoint officers, there would be
forcein the observation, that the power of difmifling results from
the power of appointing. But, Sir, there is another part of the
onftitution as explicit as that on which the gentlemen found their
doctrine : It is that which declares that the executive power lhall
'»e vested in the Prefidcnt of the United States. The afl'ociation
of the Senate with the President in the exercise of one particular
executive function, is an exception to this gen-r il principle; and
xceptions to general rules are ever taken ftri&ly. But there is
still another part of the constitution. which in my judgment,
clearly favors the conftruflion I give. The Prefidcnt is required,
Sir, to take care that thelaws be faithfully executed. Ifthefaith
ul execution of the laws be required at the hands of the executive
magistrate, it should seem that in general the constitution mull
have intended that he should have that species of power m all its
extent, which is necessary toaccompliih the purposes of the de
partment, and'to enable him toanfwer for their accomplishment.
Now, if the officer, when once appointed, is not to depend tor
his official exiftenceupon the Prefidcnt, but upon a diftiuft body,
tor wherethere is a mutual negative, either alone can secure this
dependence) I do not fee how the former can provide for the ex
ecution of tlie laws. It is true, that by a circuitous mode he may
obtain an impeachment, and gain the concurrence of the Senate ;
but will not this deprive him of that controul which is essential to
a refponfibilitv for the administration ?
There is another maxim which ought to direst us in expounding
the constitution. It is the opinion of all great civilians and po
litical writers, that the great departments of government ought to
he prefervedfeparatc and diftinft. That in anycafe wheretliey are
blended together, it ought to be under special reftri&ions and
guards. fhis is iaid down as essential to liberty. When there
fore .we review the fcveral parts of the constitution, which provide
that the legislative powers lhall be vested in two Houses, and the
executive in a President, with certain exceptions, wemuft con
clude that the intention of the constitution was, that these de
partments should be kept perfectly separate, where they were not
exprefjly mixed, and that we oughtto conftru6l the inftrumcnt in
such a manner as to confound them as little as poflible.
Sir, every thing which relates to the merits of the qucftion, as
distinguished from a constitutional question, fecms to turn on the
danger of such a power vt (led in the Prefidcnt. But when I con*
fider the checks which will attend the President in the exercise of
it, I confcTs, I feel no appreheniions. If there are any dangers
incident to that power, th§y must belong to it wherever it exists,
whether you place it in one body or another. I will not repeat
what has been said with refpeflt to the mode of the Prefidcnt's
cleft.ion, and the extreme improbability that any citizen will he
lelefted from the common mass, who is not dift nguilhed by his
virtue and worth. In this alone we have an unusual security for
the faithful exercise of the power. But leaving that out of the
question, let us confidcr the obligations and restraints he will feel
when placcd in that exalted responsible station. Perhaps, as has
been observed, the great danger arises from the continuance of un
worthy men in office; but so is the fyftein contrived that though
the President may be vested by la,w with a power of removal, he
is restrained and prevented from continuing a corrupt officer. For
if an unworthy man be not displaced by the supreme executive,
the House of Representatives may at any time impeach him, and
he may be removed in fpiteofthe Prefidcnt. But it is contended
that the danger confiftsin this, that the President may remove from
office a man whose merit requires that he Ihouldbe continued in it.
Let us confidcr what motives he can have for such an abuse of pow
er, and what will be the checks on him. In the fiift place, he
himfelf will be impeachable for the wanton removal of a merito
rious officer, and will himfelf be removed from his high trust.
-Again, what can be his motive for displacing a worthy man? It
must be with the expectation of filling the vacancy with some un
worthy favorite. Can he accomplilh tlvis himfelf? Must he not
conlblt the Senate? They may rcjeft the pcrfon he nominates. Sir,
)e can have no security forfuccefsin his projects. The Senate will
judge of them by the merits and character of the pcrfon removed ;
and having been guilty of one obnoxious measure, he will him
felf thereby fumifha check tf> his own delign : But let us confidcr
the confeqnence. The injured man will be supported by the pub
lic opinion. The community at large will take fide against the
i relident—and combinations will be oroduccd which may effec
tually prevent his re-election. To displace a man of high merit,
an one who from his station may be supposed a man of extensive
influence, will excite jealousies, and create an intereftcd oppositi
on in the fyfbm, and in the people. He will have his friends, his
dependents, and the public sympathy on his fide,' and if it should
not give birth to an impeachment in the legislature, it would pro
bably produce a fatal impeachment before the community at large
Butfuppofe the perfccuted individual lliould not be able to ac
complish t.ie object of his resentment in thi way, there are other
modes in which he can be very troublesome to the President. Ii
he has not influence enough to direst the vengeance of the who!
community, in all probability he will be able to obtain appoint
ments in one or the other branch of the legislature, and poir fling
weight and talents, he will be able at least to give him confidera
e dl<lu [ We have seen in the history of other nations, ex
amples that.juftify the remark I now make. Though the preroga
iveo t ie Bntifh King is great, and his resources of influence ex
tenhve and commanding, there have been examples of his miin-
Ms jcing opposed, and removed by the decision of one branch of
nn(T fTf '. hlsbC the cafe wlth a hTedicary monarch,
P? - nd ot luth hl S h Prerogatives, and furnilhed with such mean,
,I™' can we luppofe that a President of the United States,
Ii .V ? Ur n on the popular voice,irapcach-
; V ' and not perhaps distinguished in point.of
wea ior ptronal talent* from the head of the department him
can we luppofe, I fay, that in drfianceof all these confldcra
tions, lie will prcfume wantonly to dismiss a meritorious and vir
tuous officer from his service? 1 own it is an abuse of power which
exceeds my imagination, and of which I can form no ration.il
conception But let us not contemplate the dangers onlv on one
lide. V til this power m the Senate, jointly with the President,
and in my opinion you destroy that great principle of refponlibili
t>, which was intended so, the security ol liberty itfelf. Vrft the
power m the President, the chain of dependence is this—The ol
'l, •m ? W .' ft grade, the officer ,of the middle and higher
oeoole' T b ' aCP "' a ; n, 0n lhe President, and he again on the
people— 1 he chain of security therefore terminates in the general
community, who will possess,, in aid of tlieir great original pow
t,o„rh,w!." Ve Cr ' Vn l at J rnpeach ment. Take the other fuppofi
cin i h k P ° WCr ° U l !d r be veftcd in thc *<•'«»•> the prin
o?w-r t o .Power to displace is necelfarily conneftcd with the
The h'-.rl"r t T >ln; ' appointments may depend upon
the headsoi departments—and they must tUt refore remove I fee
re V fo ry nfibMTT P '^ nl Where lhall we find the
refponfibilityi \\ here does it terminate? If you begin with an
ml. nor officer, hejs dependent on his fupcrior, and'he again or
'frf"r c T :othe a permanent
°V y , (• y ' the lingular mode ot their eleflion, existing in
power wh CV b ri h a A* that poffeflts that portion of aristocratic
,r I I ! theconll,tut,on has Wifely eftablilhed. Shall we
. nate rather than the whole community? For though
Senators will not hold theiroffices for life, yet the fact is, that
hey will not pofTcfs any responsibility whatever, which will make
it lafeto trust them with such a power.
Cut, Sir. what an afpeft will it give to the executive depart.
ment? Infte3d of keeping it diiliiift from the legilLtive
fer its bell powers to a bodvin which the conftitution'never'.ft'
ed it ; you render the executive merely subservient to thr nil
branch, you destroy its refponfttrility and defeat the purnof-, f
which an executive was eftabhrtied. Sir, the laws cannot be «
ecuted but by officers chosen lor the purpose; and the contm.i
over the officers mud be in the executive power. If anv th
doctrine be admitted, what is the consequence? certainlyV
that you may go on with equal reason and let the Senate at
head of the executive department. You may dcclare thai ?1I o ft"
cers should hold their places during the pleasure of either brarrh
of the legislature. And by this means you may link to-ethe
branches which the preservation of liberty requires to be°ai '
ftantly feparatcd.
[For the remainder ofWednefday's Debate, fee laji Page.']
Monday, June 22, 1789.
The resolve which came down from the Senate, refp?6li n <r
appropriation of the rooms in the federal hall—was read° 2 nd
concurred. '
The order of the day being called for, the bill for eflablifl,.
ing the department of foreign as rep »rt d from t -
committee cf the whole, with the several amendments, were read
and the amendments agreed to by the House.
Mr. Carroll proposed aclaufeto limit the duration of the
bill: Among other reasons for the motion, Mr. Carroll observed
that he conceived the necelfity of such an officer would ceafeina
(hort time, by reason of the gradual withdrawing of our inter
course witli European countries; and in the course of a very few
years all political connexion with thole powes will be at an end
which would render the fitiblifoment a fuperfluous expencc.
Mr. Pace feconcied the motion—and added, That he could
not conceive the propriety of gentlemen, who were elected only
for two years, wifhlnj to extend" the laws of their to a
period beyond the time, when the use and design of fuchlaws
should exist, and thus perpetuate the power and influence of the
House.
Mr. Ames opposed the addition of the clause as it would be
unfavorable to the liability of government; and was lirtle better
than infufmg a prematureprinciplc of mortality into the executive
department.
Mr. Gerry was in favor of a limitation : He supposed, that
if the expiration of the bill was not provided for, at theprefent
time, it would be extremely difficult to effe£l its rcdu&ion, when
the officers of this department shall have formed connexions
with foreign courts; and by means of those connexions, an
extensive fphereof bufmefs uninteresting to the United States, (hall
be created.
The vote being taken, it patted in the negative.
Mr. Benson proposed an amendment, which he conceived
would more fully expfefs the sense of the committee, as itrefpe&ed
the conllitutionality of the decision which had taken place: The
amendment wa«, to flrike out in the second clause of the bill,
these Words, u In cafe cf vacancy in the fiid office of Secretary of the
i>l ted States \ for thr department of foreign affairs-" and toinfert in
hen thereof the followin r, " Whenever thefaid principal officer,
ffiall be removed by the President, or a vacancy in anyother way
shall happen."
I i is produced some debate, and the ayes and nays being called
for, it was determined in the affirmative, as follow, viz.
[ Meflieurs Ames, Baldwin, Benfon, Brouin, Burke, Car.
| rot, Cixmer, Center, Fitzftmons, Gilman, Goodhue, Grijfin,
Ayes qo. J Hartley, lleifler, Laurance. Lee, Leonard, Madison,
. Moore, P. Muhlenberg, Scot, Sedgwick, Seney, Sinnick
. fori. Smithy (Maryland), Sylvefler, Thatcher, Trumbull,
Wadfworth. —Thirty.
f Meflieurs Cadwallader, Coles, Gerry, Grout, Hathom,
Nays 18 J Huntington, Livcrmore. Matthews, Page, Parker, Pat-
I r2 dge, V a " RmfcUaer, Sherman, Smith, fS. C.) Sturgis,
ISumpter, Tucker, White.—Eighteen.
It was then moved to llrike out these words in the firfl clause,
" removable by the President of the United States."
The principal reason afiigned for firiking out these words was,
that as the bill now Hands, it appears to be a grant of power;
whereas it was presumed to he the sense of the committee, that the
power was veiled in the President by the Constitution. A recapi
tulation of arguments upon this point ensued, and the queflion
was finally determined by ayes and nays.—Some gentlemen voted
in the negative, supposing that retaining the words, would be an
additional evidence of the sense of the House that the power was
veiled in the President.
f Meflieurs Ames, Baldwin, Benfon, Brown, Burke,
j Cixmer, Coles, Gerry, Goodhue, Griffin, Grout, liathorn,
Ayes 91 J Huntington, Leonard, Livermore, Madison, Matthews,
, Moore, P. Muhlenberg, Page, Parker, Patridge. Van
I Ranjellaer, Scot, Sherman, Stnnicfon, Smith, (S. C.)
[.Sturgis, Sumpter, Vining, White.—Thirty-one.
f Meflieurs Boudinot, Gidwallader, Carrol, Contee, Fitz-
Nays jq J simons, Gilman. Hartley, Heifler, Laurance, Lee, Sher
} man, Sedgwick, Seney, Sm'th, (Maryland), Sylvejler,
L Thatcher, Trumbull, Tuckrr, Wadfworth. —Nineteen.
I hefe addititional amendments being compleated, the bill
ed to be cngrolfed for a third reading to-morrow.
And then the House adjourned.
Tuesday, June 23.
The committee appointed for that purpose, brought in a bill
'or f-curing to authors and inventors the benefits of their refper
tive publications and inventions—which was read and laid on the
table.
1 he order of the day was then called for—and the engroffcd
bill for eftablifliing an executive department, to be denominated
the department of foreign affairs, was read a third time.
Mr. Sumpter moved, that the final consideration of the bill
mould be pollponed.
Mr. White piopoled, that the bill should be re-committed to
1 committee of the whole, iu order that the other departments
might be added, and one system formed, which {hould embracc
the whole—this motion after a ffiort discussion was negatived.
Mi Sumpter then renewed his motion for poflponement, and
that the bill lhould lie on the table till to-morrow. —The vote
upon this motion paflVd in the affirmative.
Mr. Laurance moved, that the House should take into con
udcration the amendments to the impost bill, which were yet to
he decided—this motion was adopted.—And the enabling clause
as amended by the Senate being read, which is in these words.
Be it enacted by the Senate and Representatives," &'• r '
1 hatcher proposed, that <{ House of" should be mferted imme
diately before Representatives—this motion was agreed to.
The next amendment which the Senate had not receded from
was, to llrike out the clause which makes a discrimination in the
duty injpofed on distilled spirits imported from countries with
whom the United States were in treaty, and from those with whom
no treaties had been formed—lt was moved and seconded, that
the Houfje should accede to the amendment : This produced an
animated debate, m which many new observations occurred,
and those which had been adduced in the former discussion, wer*-
peated : The vote being taken, it palled in the negative—twen
ty-five being in favor ot acceding, and twenty-seven againlt it.
So the discrimination remains as it originally flood.
The House then'adjourneded.
It is a pleasing reflection, that the attention of Congress to pub
lic bulinefs, has not been interrupted by any unfavorable incidents.
It is near three months fmce the feflion commenced, and only one
member has fallen sick—an evidence of the salubrity of the a. >
and healthiness of the situation of this city.have been not a little surprized to find so
Vopposition by many gentlemen, to the doc-
Bl . u of discrimination in our laws relating to
nations ; as it was in order to poliefs our
l V this ability, that our late revolution in
r V " n °inent was effected. It is laid, that Great
°°- "n has made her trade laws upon maxinisof
lt3 eft and she will not reccde ;it is true Ihe
"•ll'not recede, while we fuffer ourselves to be
,V IJe dupesto them —as hitherto our weaknels has
heen their strength. —It is not gratitude toothers,
I justice to o ur r elves which requires a difcrimi
__jt is ii. our power to place their interelt,
"frelatino- to their commerce witli us, 011 differ
-8 rounds, and effect a relaxation of their pre
Ltllliberal navigation a<ft.-It is in our power
produce the joint exertions of part of their
Iwii dominions in bringing about fucli a relaxa
-011 Thole who have aflerted, that the (abject
of discrimination has never engaged the atten
ion of other governments, could not have thought
onthefubject': So far from this, I believe there
"snot a power in Europe that has not difcrimina-
Jjojis interwoven with all their aifts of a commer
cial kind ; and without an attention to thispiin
ciplein this country, we had better leave trade
entirely to its own natural operations—and what
pr o vcs more than all the propriety of it, is an as
sertion made by a member in the Eritifh Com
mons, that as our government would soon be dif
ferent from what it had been, a different m ode of
treatment towards us would become necessary.
London, Apri l 14.
Sir Peter Burrell yesterday gave his final orders
toMr. Leslie, the highconftable, tc 'ttendWeft
minlter hall 011 Tuesday the 2ill, when the trial
of Mr. Hastings will commence again. Orders
have likewise been iffuecl from the secretary at
war for thehorfe and foot guards to attend. The
doorkeepers and assistants have likewise received
final directions. The Lord Chancellor has de
termined to dedicate three days in each week
until the trial is finally completed. There are
to be two other charges preferred, namely, the
contrails and presents. It is supposed that they
will take a week each, and then Mr. Law will
open the defence. Mr. Haftings's evidence oral
and documentary, will be at least twenty days,
and four days more will be neceila-y to take and
record the votes of Peers upon the four charges.
It is now generally conjectured, that the whole
of this great national caule will be completed in
about fix weeks; and as the Have trade will have
undergone adifcullion in Houfeot Commons,
this parliament will break tip about the early
part of July.
It is reported that the Prince Bishop of Ofna
bnrgh, has written a letter with his own hand to
their Majesties, requelling to be indulged with
the honor of preaching before them at St. Paul's
011 the 23d instant, and, it is said, that the Right
Rev. Royal Prelate's desire will be complied with.
011 Wednesday last the Earl of Caithness, af
terbreakfaft at the Mount coffee-houfe, return
ed to hishoufe, and put a period to his exilVence
with a piltol. We hear that the unfortunate Earl
had been four or five yea;s in expectation of mar
rying Mils Dehanny, daughter of an Irish gentle
man of respectability and fortune, and that the
day ot their union was appointed, when, as the
Fares would have it, Mr. Dehanny, actuated by
principles of avarice, refilled his consent! Hence
the cause of the fatal resolution of his Lordship.
The fortune of the Earl of Caithness was 20001.
per annum, besides what he derived from his
rank as Lieutenant Colonel in the army.—His
debts amounted to between 5 and 6000 pounds—
His house is valued at 3,5001. and he poffelled
near 40001. in ready calii—He was 3 3 years of
age.
1 lie Coroner's inquest fat 011 Tliurfday 011 the
body, and brought in their verdict lunacy.
The last advices from Stockholm fay, the secret
committee grant to his Ma jelly every thing he can
w >ih, for prosecuting the war with vigor.
On the firft instant, the bank paid him the firft
monthly subsidy of three millions of dollars,
ajout ico,oool Ilerling.
his laid, that the King has ordered the nobili
ty to dilcoutinne their ailemblies : and has also,
m his own authority, reduced the number of the
ecret committee from forty to ten members.
DUBLIN, Decembf-r^-I.
is with great concern we announce to our
readers the decease of the Right Rev. Dr. Isaac
j the learned and excellent Bilhop of Cork
* a< Rofs, who departed this life 011 the 10th in
ant, at Lath, full of years, and happy in the
1 pofleffion of the public elteem and
in l" J i" 1 ?' watches the decline of men
far r has for some time palt appointed
a ucceflor to tliis good Biftiop the Rev. John
Barr >' D -D- Dean ofElpliin. 1 J
Ti sto n , (Jamaica) April 18.
ttrfMf ' e nil *o ht came on the court of quar
keepe lo . ns > Halfway Tree, the trial of a book
havii- 1 m f ' Andrew's, on an indictment for
g entered the pen of Mrs. Savers, in the
night, difVirifecl as a negro, for the purpose of
serving a subpoena on the overseer of that proper
ty ; After near half an hour's consultation, the
jury withdrew to the church, where they conti
nued till 3 o'clock next morning, and then re
turned their verdidtGUlL FY. He was senten
ced to pay i jl. with full colts, and fufFer eight
days imprisonment.
Philadelphia, JuneiS.
I he Fourth of July (fays a correspondent)
has hitherto been celebrated in a manner but lit
tle honorable to the United States. Our corres
pondent does not objedr to the pleasures of the
table, iifed in moderation, being part of the en
tertainment of the anniversary of our indepen
dence ; but he proposes that the dinner ihould
always be introduced by an oration, afermon, or
a.n appeal to Heaven, in order to inform the ri
'ln§ generation of the deliverances which has
been wrought for our country. In the oration or
sermon, the names of the princpal persons who
have been instrumental in the eltablifhment of
our liberties, Ihould be mentioned. After this,
the declaration of independence ihould be read.
Odesfuitable to the day, Ihould be repeated, or
fungafter dinner. The toalls (if any are given)
ihould be few in number, and that disgusting
uniformity which has hitherto cliaradterifed
them, fbould by all means be avoided. An en
tertainment thus conducted, will be the enter
tainment of Men, and not of lieafts or Indians.
The religious profeffions of a lawyer are per
haps not so common as in many other orders ; but
there is fometliing in the following extract from
a late speech of Mr. Erikine's on the rights of ju
ries, that deserves the attention and imitation of
all.—" It was the firft command," hefays, " and
council to my youth, always to do what my con
science told me to be my duty, and to leave the
consequences to God. I fliall carry with me the
memory, and 1 hope the pracftice, of this parental
lerton to the grave. I have hitherto followed it,
and have no reason to complain that the adher
ence to it has been even a temporal facrifice ; I
have found it, on the contrary, the road to pros
perity and wealth, and I shall point it out as such
to my children." [_Hibertiia Mag.~\
New-Brunswick, June 9.
We congratulate our readers 011 the profpetfts
of the ensuing harvest, which, we are told, are
more flattering than has appeared for many years
palt, and promise to reward the toils of the la
borious and industrious haibandman with a boun
tiful supply to fill his granaries and barns.
Albany, June 15.
The distress of the inhabitants in the upper
parts of the country in consequence of unequal
led scarcity of grain, is truly deplorable. Many
of those bordering on Lake Champlain, we arc
allured by a gentleman of veracity who resides in
that country, have no other dependance for sup
port than the wild rootsof the earth, and the fifh
which they catch in the lake.
Lalt week a poor man, just able to roufter to
gather the price of two bulhels of corn, and to
nay for horse-hire, travelled upwards of thirty
fix miles to this city, ere he could purchase the
grain. His family, which was numerous, he said,
had little or nothing to support tlieni till his re
turn.
A correspondent, who signs, " Homo sum, ni
liil Hnmani a me alienum puto," sincerely willi
es that fotne mode could be devised, and put in
immediate operation, to obviate the dreadful ef
fects of the present scarcity in the country. He
would fondly hope, that those gentlemen whom
providence has diftinguiflied by blefling their en
deavors with the ample gifts of fortune, would
take the lead which the occasion seems to force
011 them, and diftinguifn themselves as benevolent
citizens and genuine philanthropists ! Religion,
which comprehends every virtue, in the molt for
cible language, inculcates the exercise of charity;
and human nature cannot appear to greater ad
vantage than when engaged in the cause of be
nevolence, nor receive a more ample gratification
than the consolatory reflection of having adini
ftered relief to the cries of diltrel's. A fubferip
tioti set on foot in this city and the towns adja
cent, for buying and distributing grain to the
meagre children of famine, and such other bene
volent purpose as a committee might direct, would
no doubt rapidly fill, and, in its beneficent oper
ations, be productive of benefits of the molt ex
tensive and l'alutary nature.
NEW-YORK, JUNE 24, 1789.
Extra!} of a litter from Savanna, dated Juni 11.
" We have been more alarmed lately with ap
prehensions from the Indians, than we have been
since the commencement of lioftilities with them.
Thirty or forty of them attacked John Lecoutre,
three' or four weeks ago, but were repulsed.
Four of them were killed, and several others from
some appearances supposed to be wounded. Since
this happened, Gen. Clarke was informed by some
Cherokccs, who had just left the Creek nation,
that they were meditating an immediate and for
midable attack againlt our frontiers. We have
however within a few days rcreiveJ more' agres"
able intelligence from Galphin, who was feat b<-
the commillioners with the last talk. He lias in-*
formed the executive, that When he arrived in
the nation, he was told that they, had a few days
before dispatched fix hundred warriors, to attack
the frontier counties ; and that twenty three hun
dred more were preparing to follow them 3 but
that by his own exertions and those of his brother,
they were prevailed on to desist from'the expe
dition, to recall those Who had already marched,
and to consent to meet the comtniffioners 011 the
twentieth of this month, at the place appointed
for holding the treaty. This intelligence of
Galphin's is corroborated by a letter from
M'Gilvray to him. I am rather apprehensive
that from the feeble oppoiirioii which the In
dians have met with, and from the unreasonable
ness of their demands, that it will be difficult,
perhaps impollible, to procure an amicable adjift-.
mentof ourdifputes with them. Should this not
be the cafe, I fupjiofe you will receive early in
ftruclions of the event from the Executive, as we
ihall require federal aid, if Congress flnjuld be
in a situation to afford it.
The present is the maiden feilion of our Ameri
can legislature, and has beer, diftinguiffied by the
predominance of as pure principles of patriotifin,
as ever graced alegiflativeatfcinbly.
No future feflion of Congress, will ever have
so arduous and weighty a charge on their hands.
The business of legillation is always attended
with difficulties, and requires the combined ex
ertions of genius, talents and experience ; but
the present Congress have 110 precedents, that
apply to the circumstances of the United States,
to direct their footfleps—no examples to imi
tate, and no striking historical fads oh which
to ground their decisions—All is bare creation.
They have a constitution to unfold and display,
that is original in its conftrudion and design.
Interests to attend to, that never were before'
blended and made cognizable, by a legislative
body—an example to set original in its formati
on—and anticipations to juftifv that are founded
upon the 1110 ft exalted ideas of hifman perfedion.
Added to these, their materials are few—their ob
jeds numerous—and expedition boundlefs.—ln
such a situation, those that undertake the con
duct of our public affairs upon right principles,
when time fliall do them justice, will rank with
the firft patriots and friends of mankind.
The unfolding, difplaying,and establishing the
various parts of a new and untried system of go
vernment is an arduous talk.
Mankind are as different perhaps in the forma
tion of their perceptive powers, as in the linea
ments of their countenances : Hence a variety of
conftrudions is often put upon that, which has
but one precise and definite meaning ; and that
which in the very nature of things mull be vague
and uncertain, it is often contended has the molt
limited and confined lignification. These consi
derations fuggeftthe importance ofpatience, for
bearance, and moderation ; for those truths,
which are the result of the molV diligent, lioneft.
and laborious investigation, like gold that bears
the liotteftfire, will be found the 1110 ft pure, du
rable, and important.
The science of government, independent of
the eftabli/hing a new Constitution, is intricate
and difficult to a very great degree. A free go
vernment is infinitely more sb than an arbitrary
one: The rights of the citizens require the utmolt
exertions of the human faculties to devise ways
and means for their security—Hence the necellity
of a great variety of laws ; but in an arbitrary, or
a despotic government, there is but one law,
and that is the Will of the Supreme Power.
While our country calls for the exertions of
every individual—and on those exertions, at the
present moment, depend the fucccfs of our new
government, and the happiness and prosperity of
the United States, in all the succeeding periods
of their existence—let all inferior conficlerations
be facrificed to the ennobling one of attempting
to make a NATION HAPPY.
" Mind your Business" said the Congress
under the old Confederation. This is amoft ufe
ful injunction : Let every one attend afliduoufly
to the duties of his particular calling—for it is as
true as it is obvious, that the peace and prosper
ity of the whole are constituted by the happi
ness and tranquility of individuals.
$3" Gatimozin does not come zvithin the limits of the phim of the
Gazette of the United States—but the author is entitled to our thanksJor
hisfriendly design.
ARRU'ALS. NEW- YORK.
Saturday. Schooner Bctfy and Polly, Butler, Baltimore, 6 days-
Schooner Fanny, Burdington, Edenton, N. C. 6 davs-
Sloop Cynthia, llodgers, St. Euflatia, 18 days.
Sloop Bctfy, Higgins, Savantia, 10 days.
Sloop Beverly, Davidfon, Alexandria. 13 days.
Sunday. B>ig Adventure, Joy, Baltimore, 9 days.
Sloop Friendship, johnson, Baltimore, 7 days*
Sloop Union, Watson, George Town, Vir. 14 days.
Monday. Schooner Betsy, Strong, Virginia, 7 days.
Sloop Betsey, Denton, Baltimore, 10 days.
Sloop Christian, Aden, Philadelphia, 5 days.
Sloop Industry, Stone, Boston, 8 days.
Tuesday. Ship Grace, Armour, Amsterdam, 80 days.
Brig Nymph, Palmer, Amsterdam, 80 days.
Sloop Dolphin, Carpenter, Savanna, 10 days-Remaind roj Wedntjduy-s Debate.
But, Sir, another lpecies of argument has been
urged againlt the claufe—lt has been laid that it
is improper or at lealt unneceflary to come to any
decillon on the lubjedt. It has been laid that it will
be officious in this branch cf the legislature to"
expound the conllitution, so far as relates to
tliediviiion of power between the President and
Senate. Sir, it is undoubtedly of as much im
portance to thjs branch as to any other, that the
constitution Ihould be preserved entire : It is our
duty as well as interejl to take care that its prin
ciples be adhered to. A breach of the conllitu
tiou in one point may lead toabreachin another.
A breach in this point may destroy that equilibri
um in the government, by which this House
maintains its Share of authority.—l do not think
we can be charged with officious interference, as
this bill before it can have effect, is to be Submit
ted to both those branches who are particularly
intercfted in it. The Senate may negative it—
The President may objedt to it.
Sir, an objection Strongly urged is, that the
legislature itfelf has 210 right to expound the
constitution ; that whenever its meaning is doubt
ful, you mult leaye it undecided till the judiciary
Shall be called on to declare its meaning. I con
ceive, that in the ordinary coutfe of things, the
exposition of the conllitution devolves on the ju
diciary. But I beg toknow 011 what principle it
can be contended that any one department de
rives from the conllitution greater powers than
another, in declaring what are the true limits of
the conllitution. We have a great charter which
afligns certain great boundariesand fences to the
Several departments of government; if these conr
ftitutional boundaries be brought into quellion,
I cannot conceive why any one of those inde
pendent branches has npt a right to exprel's its
sentiments.
This is perhaps an omitted cafe ; there is no
one government that I know of, in which provi
sion is made for a particular authority to deter
mine the great conftitutionaj limits, and the great
division or power between the branches ot go
vernment. In all systems there are points which
must be fettled by the branches theinfelves, and
to which no other power is competent. If they
cannot be, there is no resource left, but the will
of the community to be colle<fted, cither by the
mode which our conllitution provides, or by a
mode dictated bynecelfity. It is therefore a fair
quellion before us, whpthertjie great point may
not as well be decided by the whole legillaturc as
by a part —by us, as well as by the executive or
the judiciary. As it will be equally conllitution
al,it canrtot belefs fafe that the explanation Should
come from the legillature, particularly as it com
prehends all those branches whose powers can
be effected by it ; belides, Sir, Ido not fee, how
the queltipn could be brought before the judges
were the right of determining alfignedto them.
If there is any part of the government from
which an opinion on this capital point can come
with lingular advantage, it is this house, who be
ing not so immediately interelled can form their
opinion, and express their sense with less bias
than any other. My conclulion from these re
flections is, that the clause is perfedly constitu
tional ; that it exprefles the meaning of the con
llitution as a fair conltruction mull explain it,
and that it is not only conlillent with liberty, but
more favorable to. it than any other poilible in
terpretation.
Mr. Gerry was clearly of opinion with the
gentleman last on the floor, that it was of impor
tance to decide the quellion on its true princi
ples. He declared that he Ihould be ready to op
pose every encroachment of the legillature 011
the jull rights of the executive. He considered
hin.Self bound not only by an oath, but by an o
bligation equally Strong, that of honor. Gen
tlemen had laboured to prove the conlliturion
ality ps the clause. —He said he had lillened to
the;r arguments, and was convinced that the
clause was as mconfiltent with the conllitution as
anv fee of wprds which could be inserted in the
bill.
There appeared to be two questions. One,
whether the people had delegated to the govern
ment at all the power of dilinilfing at pleasure.
The other was, to whom it belonged As to the
firlt, he agreed that the power had been delegat
ed. It seemed to be proved by the arguments of
the gentlemen, that otherwise the clause in the
constitution respecting the judges was nugatory.
As to the Second quellion, it was agreed that the
power mull reft in some department. He believed
that gentlemen in Support of the clause would
agree that the house did not poilefs the power,any
more than the judges—lt lay therefore either with
the President, or the President and Senate: And
if so, it appeared to him, that the clause in ei
ther cafe was nfelels.—For if the Senate would
a (lent to the clause when sent up by the House,
they would aflent to the provifton contained in it
when the President Ihould exercise it. If the Se
nate thought the power ought to be veSted in the
supreme executive, they would freely confentto
his using it; if not, they would re ject this clause.
11l either cale {he clause was nugatory.
Mr. Gerry argued that by the operation of the
clause there would be a claffiing of powers, and
some which the Senate were allowed to pollefs
would be rendered of no efte<ft. Their power of
appointment would be defeated in its object, by
the power of the Prelident to remove ; and the
power of judging on impeachments, would be
rendered vain by the power of difiniffing ; for
a power of judging implied a power of acquittal,
which would in its operation, be totally infigni
ficajir, if the President could immediately dis
place an ofliccr whom they had judged and de
clared innocent.
He infilled that as to the danger of abuses, the
remedy againll them,which had been mentioned,
that is, the power of impeaching the President if
he difiuifled a good man, involved an absurdity.
How could the House impeach the Prefident,when
they had declared that he could lawfully do as he
pleased ? Would they impeach him for exercising
a difcrpticn which they had given him in a molt
unlimited manner ?
If the legislature gave him an unlimited con
troul over all officers, he would have, he faid,the
absolute controul over the treasury. We might
as well give him the appropriation of monies ;
for it would be of little consequence to make
laws, when the President by looking at an officer,
could make it his intcreft to break that law. It
must be expected that from this general controul,
there would rife up a government of revenue in
llead of a government of Jaws. It would be easy
for the President to cover all his crimes by an
application of the revenue to those who were his
judges, and such an application would certainly
be made, in cafe of a corrupt President ; and cor
ruption in him was what it was necellary to guard
againll,
Mr. Gerry further observed, that giving the
President the power to remove, would virtually
give him a considerable power of appointment,
independent of the Senate; for if the Senate
ffiould rejedt his favorite, and agree to his nomi
nation of one less agreeable to him, he might
immediately remove the latter on the recefsof
the Senate, and introdnce the favorite ; for the
conltitution had veiled him expressly with the
power of appointing in the recess of the Senate.
It had been observed, he said, that this was a
cafe omitted ; and that Congress had a power of
supplying thedefedt— But they ought to consider
on what ground they Hood. An attempt to sup
ply such a cafe might appear an attempt at an
amendment to tUp conltitution. The fyltcin had
provided a mode of making amendments—The
legislature could pursue that alone. Any attempt
to obtain amendments in another form, would
be a high crime and mifdeineanor; perhaps some
thing worse. Gentlemen, he said, appeared to
be leading them 011 to what might be deemed
treason agailt the conltitution. The lyltem, it
could not be denied, was in many parts obfeure
and unintelligible. Ifit was once determined that
Congress might explain and declare what the con
ltitution was, it could not be denied that they
could change it at pleasure. This obfeurity had
been one of the great arguments againll accept
ing it. It had been urged that it was remarka
bly obfeure—lt was indeed, he said, moll ftudi
cdly obfeure. By this very a<ft, the House were,
he afierted, ailumiug a power to form a conltitu
tion. If the people of the United States suppo
sed that it is in the power of the legislature to
give conltruCtions to the conltitution, they would
revolt from it. Ihe idea of the legislature ha
ving a right to make any alterations in the con
ltitution was repugnant to the feelings of every
freeman, and to the principles of the revolution.
He then took notice of the argument that the
legillative and executive ought to be kept dif
tinift; and asked what department the Senate was,
when acting with the President ? clearly an exe
cutive one. If so, the argument fell to the ground.
—If they acted as legislative, it would be absurd.
They were a conllitutional council to the Presi
dent, and were completely executive.
If the power was veiled in the Senate, it had
been said the executive would be a two-headed
monlter; but it was already a two-headed mon
ster, and if it was the delire of gentlemen to
make it less monstrous, it ought to be made a
confdlent monller. He thought it would be mon
llrous indeed to give the Senate the power of ap.
pointing, and deprive them of that power of
difmifling officers.
He concluded with aliening that the clause in
debate was useless and unueceflary, and incon
sistent with the conllitution. It was an officious
interpolition of the House in a bufmefs which did
not properly come before it.
Mr. Benson supposed there was a power in
the legislature of supplying the omission in the
conllitution, and determining by what power
officers fliould be removed.—The conllitution
had given the power to the government general
ly to remove at pleasure : for it could not be ra
tionally contended that all offices ffiould be held
during good behaviour.
Could the gentleman be serious, he afkedy
when he fuggellecl that this was a cafe to be pro
posed to a convention of the people for an amend
ment to the conllitution ? Did die gentleman
suppose that when ever a doubt arofc reject,-,,*
any part ot the conllitution, it Ihould be refer"
a convention, aud th at the different doub>t
of different individuals should aH be fettled in
this way f Did he suppose that no part of the
conllitution was to be taken by conftrinSion ►
It was unqueilionable, he said, that no confix'
tion or law could pollibly be formed which would
not involve the necessity of conftruAion.
Mr. Benson proceeded to provethe impropri
ety of veiling the power in the Senate, by shew
ing the difficulty and embarrassments which
would refuk. He would put the cafe ofthe offi
cer to which the bill related. To him were to
be committed the negociations with foreign mi
nillers ; a very delicate trull. The supreme ex
ecutive, in controuling this department, would
frequently be obliged to acft on suspicion, and
that of the inoft delicate kind, and the circum
flances on which it was founded, not proper to
be explained. He would be in a situation which
would render it improper to make ufeoftheevi
deuces of his fufpicion—Was'it to be supposed
then that the Senate would implicitly submit to
his will and his proposal. They would not; they
would certainly require the reasons. Suppose
he should tell them that he fufpe<fted the man's
fidelity, they mull then proceed fafther and in
fill on a full communication. Was it not to be
supposed that this officer would have at leafl one
friend in the Senate, who would contend for a
hearing, and a fair trial ? The President was then
to be the complainant, and a subordinate officer
the defendant; and the Senate would fit in judg
ment between the chief magillrateof the United
States, and one ot his officers. He begged gen
tlemen to tell him if this absurd scene looked like
good government. In every inilance of a propo
rtion tor removal, on account of incapacity, or
any other cause, an enquiry would take place,
for a man would always have some friend to de
mand this in his favor. All tliefe inconvenien
ces "would be done away by giving the President
the power to remove the officer.
One argument, llrongly urged, he said, was,
that the fame power which appoints, Ihould have
the right to remove. But a dillin<ftion properly
took place here. If the President and Senate
were to be confidercd as one body deliberating
together in the business of appointments, and if
the appointment itfelf was their joint ast, and
each individual had aright tomake propositions,
the reasoning might hold good. But on the con
trary, they a<fted as diflinA bodies; the Senate
had only a Ample negative or affirmative ; and no
member had a power to offer an original propor
tion— I he moment this simple principle was de
viated from, the power in the Senate which was
only intended as a check, would become an ori
ginal authority, and the executive department
would be split, divided, and diflratfted.
But it had been proposed that the President
should have the power of suspending. What
would be the consequence of this ? If the Senate
should 011 their convening reflorethe officer, the
President would have a man forced on him whom
he considered as unfaithful, and who was disa
greeable to him ; a man who was properly his
meer instrument. How would business be con
ducted ? What communication—what confidence
could exist between the President, and the re
inflated officer ? The executive administration
would become impracticable ; it would be made
up ol discordant materials, and its operations
would be f'ubjeJt to perpetual divisions and jar
ring—ln short, it appeared to him indifpcnfiblf,
to the exercise of the authority which theconfti
ution had veiled in the President, that he should
have the power of removal; and he was convin
ced that the liberties ofthe people would not de
rive a particle of additional security from re
training or witliolding any part of this power.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) entered into a general re
ply to the arguments in favour of theclaufe, and
was anfwerecl by Mr. Vining. This concluded
the business of Wednesday.
[Being unavoidably prevented from attending the debates on Wcintjwp
l"JI, rue are inileht d to Me Daily Advertiser for theforegmV
importance of thefubjeß to which t/ie\allude, wtll, uie trujl, apologM
Jor the republication.— A. B.—Americanus. —Price Currenl—
and mm\ oth fr articles omitted, will appear in our next.
This Day is puHiJhed, (Prices/6)
And tn be fold by Berry & Rogers, Hanover-Sijuarr, by
Robert Hooct, Cornerof King and Oueen-Street, and by
, the Edi tor .hereof;
TWENTY-SIX
LETTERS,
upon INTERESTING SUBJECTS,
RESPECTING THE REVOLUTION or AMERICA.
Written in Holland in the Year M,DCC,L AAA.
By his Excellency JOHN ADAMS,
WHILE HE WAS SOLE MINISTER PI.E N 1 FOT £HT IA R Y f R nNI
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
FOR NEGOCIATINR A PEACE, AND A TREATY OF COJ!ME»C J >
WITH GREAT-BRITAiy.
A'ever before publijlied.
r Complete fctts from the beginning, of the GAZETTE OF '
UNITED STATES, mix at any time be obtained by those v)ho chvfc
fubferibe for that publication, at the Editor's Office, fio. 9> Mai™"'
Publiflicd by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, MaiP£>'"
Lan s, near the Ofvcego-Uarket, NiW-YoRR. —f r - er> 'J