(barcttV r /^Tratcbv»tatct>,
[So. XVII.]
THE TABLE T. No. XVII.
u The habit of acquiring propertybegets a caution in
parting with it."
MEN who poflefs a censorious temper are apt
to complain, that people lose their incJina
- ititn to do good, in proportion as their ability
creases. This is hardly true in the extent which
£ commonly supposed, and even where the fatft
fxifts it often deserves an apology. When a man
rofp'ers in bufmefs, his friends are too much in
clined to imagine, that they have a claim to par
ticipate in his good fortune ; and it often happens,
that applications for assistance, to this prosperous
man, multiply falter than his property enlarges.
Every one, who meets with a refulal, charges liim
■with unkindnefs, and really believes, that wealth
has hardened his heart, and abated his regard for
bis friends.
It may be granted for once, that the fa<£ fully
authorises the charge, and that men grow avari
cious as they grow rich. Some real'ons, however,
ihoutf be offered to explain and apologize for this
change of disposition.
In the firft place, it may be mentioned, that as
men extend their business they find by experience,
that they sustain more inconvenience than they
expetfted, in aflifting their acquaintance. Ihe
frequent disappointments and lofl'es they meet
■yrith, by advances to their friends, destroy their
confidence in mankind; and they fufpecft all, who
have not given unequivocal proofs of their punc
tuality and knowledge of business. This loss of
confidence is a powerful cause in restraining rich
men from lending assistance to their less prosper
ous friends and neighbours. When they former
ly feemedinore difpofedto patronise others, they
did not anticipate the confequepces,that would re
sult from indulginga temper of undiftinguifhing
liberality.
Another reason for this change of disposition,
which is complained of, may be drawn from the
influence tliat prosperity unavoidably produc.es
over the mind. The sympathetic impulses do not
operate vigorously, where there is 110 fiinilarity
of circumttances. A man, entering into business
with a small capital, has occasion to ask assistance ;
and when it is asked of him, he denies with foine
reiu&ance, because he has a fellow-feeling with
him who solicits it. But when he becomes
independent, he forgets the pleasure and advan
tage that are derived from benevolent aid, and
therefore his sensibility does not, as formerly,
prompt him to grant the favors that are requested.
A third reason results from the nature of the
human constitution. Avarice and precaution are
among the attendants of old age. If therefore
we perceive a man, who was benevolent and
friendly when he was young, afluming a different
character when he becomes old, we inuft, in ad
dition to the other causes that have been enumer
ated, fuppole that he is acting agreeably to a law
«f his nature.
Mr. Fen no,
EVEIIY friend to the rights of conscience, equal
libeny and diffufive happiness, mult have felt
patn on feeing the attempt made by one of your
conefpondents, in the Gazette of the United
States No. 8, May the 9th, to revive an odious
system of religious intolerance The author may
not have been fully sensible of the tendency of
his publication, because he speaks of preferring
imiverfal toleration. Perhaps he is one of those
who think it confident with justice to exclude
certain citizens from the honors and emoluments
society, merely on accbunt of their religious
opinions, provided they be not restrained by
racks and forfeitures from the exercise of that
worship which their consciences approve.—lf
.' )e s riew?, in vain then have Americans
allociated into one great national union, under
the express condition of not being ffiackled by re
ligious tests ; and under a firm persuasion that
tnev were to retain when aflociated, every natu
'al right not expressly surrendered.
Is it pretended that they, who are the objeifts of
an intended exclusion from certain offices of honor
and advantage, have forfeited by an ads, or trea
*Oii against the United States, the common rights
°\ n r at V ,e » or r^e stipulated rights of the politi
cal iociety, of which they form apart ? This the
■wthor has not presumed to aflert. Their blood
•owed as freely (in proportion to their numbers)
t0 ,ei "snt the fabric of independence as that of
ot their fellow-citizens: They concurred
boil P C '' la P s g rea *cr unanimity than any other
.? ■' 01 lne n, in recommending and promoting
*t government, from whose influence America
1 icipa;esall thebleffings of jullice, peace, plen
y> goou order and civil and religious liberty.
v character ihall we then give to a fyftwn of
WEDNESDAY, June 10, 1789.
.
policy-, for the express purpose of diverting of
rights legally acquired thole citizens, who are
not only unoffending, but whose conduct has
been highly meritorious ?
These observations refer to the general tenden
cy of the publication, which I now proceed to
conlider more particularly. Is it true as the au
thor Hates, that our forefathers abandoned their
native home ; renounced its honors arid comforts,
and buried themselves in the immense forefts of
this new world, for the fake of that religion
which he recommends preferable to any other ?
Was not the religion which the emigrants to the
four southern States brought with tliem to Ame
rica, the pre-eminent and favored religion of
the country which they left ? Did the Roman Ca
tholics who firft came to Maryland, leave their
native foil for the fake of prelerving the Protes
tant church I Was this the motive of the peacea
ble Quakers in the settlement of P<yinfyl vania ?
Did the firft inhabitants of the Terfeys and New-
York, quit Europe for fear of being compelled
to renounce their Protestant tenets ? Can it be
even truly aiTirmed.that this motive operated on
all, or a majority of those who began to fettle
and improve the four eastern States ? Or even if
they really where influenced by a desire of pre
ferring their religion, what will ensue from the
facfl, but that one denomination of Protestants
fought a retreat from the persecution of another?
W ill history juftify the aflertion that they left
their native homes for the fake of the Protestant
religion, understanding it in a comprehensive
sense asdiftinguifhed from eVery other ?
This leading fact being so much miftated, no
wonder that the author /houldgo on bewildering
himfalf more and more. Heaflerts that the reli
gion which he recommends, laid the foundation o]
this new and great empire-, and therefore contends
it is entitled to pre-eminence and distinguished
favor. Might I not fay with equal truth, that
the religion which he recommends exerted her
powers to crush this empire in its birth, and still
is laboring to prevent its growth? For, can we
so soon forget, or now help feeing, that the bit
terest eneyiies of our national prosperity profefs
the fame religion as prevails generally in the Uni
ted States? What inference will a philosophic
mind derive from this view, but that religion
is out of thequeftion ? That it is ridiculous to fay,
THE PR OTESTANT RELIGION IS THE IMPOR
TANT BULWARK OF OUR. Co NST IT UTIO If ? Thai
the eftablilhment of the American empire was
not the work of this or that religion, but arose
from a generous exertion of all her citizens to
rt-drefs their wrongs, to aflert their rights, and
lay its foundations on the soundest principles of
jultice and equal liberty ?
When he ascribed so many valuable effects to
his cherillied religion, as that she was the nurse oj
arts andfciences, could he not reflect, that Homer
and Virgil, Dimoflhenet anil Cicero, Thucydidet and
Livy, Ihidias and Apelles flourifhed long before
this nurse of arts and sciences had an existence ?
Was he so inconsiderate as not to attend to the
consequences, favorable to Polytheism, which
How from his reafoning?.Or did he forget that
the Emperor Julian, the subtle and inveterate ene
my of christianity, applied this very fame argu
ment to the defence of Heathenish superstition ?
The 1 recollection of that circumstance may induce
him to fufpecft the weight of his observation, and
perhaps to doubt of the fadl, which he aflumed
for its basis.
But he tells us that Britain owes to her religion
her present distinguished greatness : a gentle invira
tionto America topurfue the lame political max
ims, in heaping excluhve favors on one, and de
prefling all other religions !
But does Britain owe indeed the perfection and
extent of her manufactures, and the enormous
wealth of many individuals to the cause afligned
by this author ? Can he so soon put it out of lus
mind, that the patient industry so natural to En
glish artificers, and the long monopoly of our
uade, and that of their dependencies, byincrea
fing the demand and a competition among her
artizans, contributed principally to the perfec
tion of the manufactures of Britain ? And that
the plunder of Indian provinces poured into her
lap the immense fortunes which murder and ra
pacity accumulated in those fertile climes ? God
forbid that religion should be instrumental in
railing such greatness !
When the author proceeds to fay, that the
clergy of that religion, which operated such
wonders in Britain, boldly and zealously fteppaa
forth and bravely stood our distinguished fentineh to
bring about the late glorious revolution, lam almofl
determined to follow him no further: He is lead
ing me on too tender ground, on which I chufe
not to venture. The clergy of that religion be
haved, I believe, as any other clergy wpuld have
\j?tlblijhcd on Wednesday arid Saturday.]
clone in similar circumstances : But the voice of
America will not contradi&me, when I aflert that •
they discovered no greater zeal for the revoluti
on, than the minilhry of any other denomination
whatever.
When n;en comprehend not, or refufe to ad
mit the luminous principles on which the lights
of confidence and liberty of religion depend,
they are induftrigus to find out pretences for into
lerance. If they cannot discover them in the
actions, they strain to cull them out of the te
nets of the religion which they wish to exclude
from a free participation 6f rights. Thus
this author attributes to his region the merit of
being the moj\ favorable to freedom, and affirms
that not only morality but liberty like wife must
expire, if his clergy should ever be contemned or
legletted: all which conveys a refined insinuation,
that liberty cannot consist with, or be cherished
by any other religious institution; and which
therefore he would give us to underfland, it is'
not fafe to countenance in a free government.
I am anxious to guard against the impression
intended by such insinuations; not merely for
the fake of any one profeflion, but from an ear
nest regard toprcferve inviolate for ever, in our
new empire, the great principle of religious free
dom. The constitutions of some of the States
continue still to intrench on the sacred rights of
eonfcience ; and mepwho have bled, and open
ed their purses as freely in the cause of liberty
and independence, as any other citizens, are
molt unjustly excluded from the advantages which
they contributed to establish. But if bigotry and
narrow prejudices have prevented hitherto the
cure of these evils, be it the duty of every lover
of peace and justice to extend them 110 further.
Let the author who has opened this field for dif
culfion, be aware of slyly imputing te anj set of
men, principles or consequences, which they
disavow. He perhaps may meet with retaliation.
He »nay be told and referred to Lord Lyttleton,
as zealous a Protestant as any man of his days,,
for information, that the principles of non-rt
fiftence seemed the principles of that religion which
we are now told is mofl favourable to freedom; and
that its opponents had g'jne top far in the Other ex—
tremf.*
He may be told farther, that a Reverend Pre
late of Ireland, the Bishop ofCloyne, has'lately
attempted to prove, that the Protestant Epifcoput
church is belt fitted to unite with the civil consti
tution of a mixed monarchy, while Presbyterian-
Lfm is only congenial with republicanism. Must
America then yielding to these fanciful fyfteins,
confine her iiijlingu'tjhing favors to the followers
of Calvi.n, and keep a jealous eye on all others ?
Ought she not rather to treat with contempt these
idle, and generally speaking interelted (pecula
tions, reftited by reaAjn, hiliory, and daily ex
perience, and reft the preservation of her liber
ties and hi;r government on the attachment of*
mankind to their political happiness, to the fe
curityof their persons and their property, which
is independent of religious dotfirines, and not
restrained by .any PACIFICUS.
* Sec dialogues of the dead, ift dialogue.
A SALILH Ut V7JT MUTUAL STATE OF AMERICA. ~
[Continued from No. XVI.}
AS an impartial and able interpretation of the
laws and regulations of a country, which deter
mine the merits or demerits of its citizens, isne
cellary to fecu.ve the life, liberty, and property
of the fubjed:, and ought to be placed in a dif
tindt and feperate body of men independent of
the other branches of government, the constitu
tion of the United States has wifely provided;
for the establishment of a national
Competent to the deliberation upon, and deter
mination of, those disputes and causes, civil and
criminal, between individuals only and between
individuals ;and rhe community, to which the
present existing judiciaries would not have been,
competent, their researches and practices being
rather confined to corporate and municipal law,,
and not involv ing the great and extensive objects
of national jurisprudence : The limple felf evi
dent proportion, thatthe means ought ever to be
commenfuratc with the end designed, points out
the need of a national judiciary ; the inconveni
encies and incompatibilities which must have ne
ceflarily result ed from the interpretation of the
national laws by the State judicial courts, the
partial determinations to he feared from juries f»
iinpannelled as; to have their corporate if not per
sonal interest : iffetfted by the iflue of many causes;
the strong biaji of feperate interests and views,
are so many fstrcafms upon the idea, and appear
so obvioully in lproper to the thinking mind as to
make any mojre particular Uluftratiovs unneces
sary.The perfecft propriety of having a national ju
diciary, to interpret the laws made by a nation
al legillature; and to decide upon the causes
which naturally come within the cognizance of
thole laws, intuitively produces conviction in the
mind, from only a cursory glance of the jubject;
and that this ellablilhment, co-equal with the ob
jects it involves ihould alio be co-exillent with
tliofe objects, is what as readily ltrikes the mind
with its necellity aud propriety : The application
of this will difepverthe need of commencing the
judiciary with the revenue fyltem, as that may
perhaps be almoil as productive of causes subject
to its infpeciioii and deciiion, as of income to the
public treasury; but the multiplicity andvariety
of disputes ana contentions, which the pride, the
anger, the desire of revenge, the avarice, the
knavery, and the operation of the diveri'e pre
judices and paifions of mankind, give rile to re
innumerable, and How as natural from their va
rious sources, as ftr'eains from their several foun
tains—and their recital (if pofiible) would only
lerve to torture the benevolent inind, and wring
with auguilli the Softer sensations of the hulhan
heart: i hat every moment of time,prelents addi
tional reasons for laws aud regulations, among
men, all will be to acknowledge :—How to
form thole laws and regulations, in a manner moll
advantageous, and inoit completely, so as to alle
viate the evils, and foften the ill efFetfts, which
accrue to mankind, from an unlimited lway of
their paliions ; as also to avoid the diladvantages,
which, in many cases, mull spring to them from
these very forms, and the abulie of law practices;
a talk honorable in itfelf, and mull be peculiarly
grateful to the fine feelings which actuate the
mind of the enlightened philosopher and accom
plilhed statesman : Though the national Conili
tution, whjch is no more than general principles
thrown into form, for the guide of our Legillators,
and to be readily recurred to, could not take cog
nizance of every cafe and particular objetft; and
though it has not explicitly provided for a trial
by jury (that inestimable privilege of freemen)
in all causes, yet it has no where oppoledor for
bid it: And the operation of those feelings and
pi inciples abovementioned, will, 1 am confident,
from the characters of the men who have the plan
of the judiciary fyllem now in contemplation,
prompt them to grant every latitude, in this and
all other refpedts, which a regard to freedom and
the rights of human nature demand, and whicS
will not involve in its conferences greater evils
and embarrallinents, than those which it is in
tended to* remedy their uniform patriotism,
their tried integrity, claim this presumption up
on their conduct, and the liberal mind will be
hurt to withold it:—But here fuifer me again to
observe, what cannot be too often urged, or too
strongly inculcated, that in framing the judiciary
fyllem, a l'acrifice of local .views and partial pre
judices, will be found peculiarly neceflary, to ef
tablilh it-on proper grounds—to alfill its great
and good design—to avoid expence, and produce
the moll ease and benefit to the fubjetft.—Private
"virtue, and public liappinefs, are inseparably con
nected ; and while the comprehensive eye of the
statesman takes a view of the happy effect of this
principle, his able hand will be extended by all
polfible means to preserve the morals of the com
munity, in giving every encouragement to vir
tue, industry, and good conduct, on the one hand,
and by the rigid pnni/hment of vice, in all its
haggard forms, oh the other; —he will nicely
watch the various fluctuations, which arise from
many sourceS, to marr the happiness of society,
and carefully endeavour to preserve those ba
lances between the contending pa/Jtons and op
pofingintereftsof mankind ; which, without fwch
direction, mull lead toconfufion and misery, but
with it, may be made to produce Order and hap
piness. AMLERICANUS.
ARTILLERY ELECTION
Boston, June 3. On Monday last, agreeably to their charter,
the Ancient and Honorable Artillery of this Commonwealth held
their anniversary ele&ion.
After attending divine service, which was ,performed by the
Rev. Mr. Barnard, of Salem, who delivered an ingenious ser
mon adapted to the occasion, a PROCESSION was formed ift the
following order, escorted by the company, and preceded by a
Band of Music, all in elegant uniform.
Lt. Gov. ADAMS.—Hon. Mr. Bowi>oin.
The Hon. Council.
Tre/idcnt—and other Senators;
Judges of the Supreme Court,
Speaker, and other Members of the f louse.
The Selectmen, and other Town Officers.
The Clergy.
The Hon. Consul of Franco,
Continental Civil Officers.
Officers of Cadets—CMlle William—Light Infa ntry—Arti'llery**-
Fuzilrcrs—all in uniforms,
Capt. LINZEEy
and five other Officers of jhis Britannic MnjefVy's frigate Penelope.
Honorary Members, &:«
The whole amounting to about 200,- prov! ceded to Faneuil-
Hall, where they all partook at a fumpiuous find elegant enter
tainment.
After dinner, the following, among other fe<§ acts were given,
1. The llluflrioua THE PRESIDENT of the United States—
[three cheers."] His Exc<llency the Vice-Pr. esxdent, and the
Congrefsot the United States. His Excellency John Hancock.
May the influence of the Federal Government 'befell by, and pro
mote the happiness of each individual under it.
After the ftrft toast. the following Ode was sung by Mr. Rea,
Co 1. Waters, Capt. Wills, acd others.
O D £*
FROM Britain's fea-glrt I fie,
Where Flora's richest fmilc
Luxuriant glows—
To this then desert walle,
By Savages polTeft—
To be with Freedom bleil,
In calm repose:
Our enterprizing Sires,
Warm'd with fair Freedom's fires,
Advent'rous came,
Here fchey their dwelling made,
Their ftandaid here difplay'd—»
Beneath the wild woods fhade>
Set up their claim.
By faith lei's foes com pell'd
To tread the sanguine field,
Unfkjll'd in war,
This Injhtution made
To teach its martial trade,
To wield the Ihining blade
The foe to dare.
While the fame martial fire,
did their breafls inspire*
Our bosoms warms,
May we with equal zeal,
Pursue the public weal,
Nor fear the bloody Heel,
If call'd to arms.
Illustrious F'ounders hai!,
This day your patriot zeal,
Your Sons proclaim.
Yoiir names we generate,
Your glOry emulate, * '
And tell our sons how great,
Their grandfires fame.
1 Hark ! The loud trumps proclaim
WASHINGTON'S glorious name,
Charge! Fill again,
Fill the bowl—fill it high,
First born Son of the Sky,
May he never, never die,
Heaven jhout—AMEN>
After which the company marched into the Tquarfc op the
common, prepared for its reception—and ele&ed
Brigadier-Generai HI LL, Captain.
Major ANDREW CUNNINGHAM, Lieutenant, and
Captain TURNER PHILLIPS, £nf»gn.
We miffl not forget to mention, that among the voluntaries >
their Most Christian and Britannic M-jellies' healths drank i
Nor to omit mentioning the polite and plealing deportment of
the officers of his Britannic Majefly'S frigate—who heartily joined
in the universal hilarity—aud who received from everyone pre
sent all due attention, agreeably to the spirit of our memorable
Declaration of Independence, which declares, that " we hold the
King and fubjefls oj Creat Britain, Vu we do the reft of the u>orld,
inlmils j*War, m Peace friends."
The Hall was elegantly decoratcd. At the entrance was a bower,
and at the upper end Eleven connected" Pillars, all of evergreen:
Between the centre pillars was placed a full-length portrait of the
Slluftrious President of the United States, over which was s/n obe-
Jiik, eiglu. feet in length, defigncd and finely executed by Joh n
son, representing at the top the all-pervading Eye y diffufing its in
fluence on our Fabius, with the words, " Fideles Protego t " wrote
over it.—ln the centre, a winged Cherub, crowning The Presi
dent with a Chapiel of Laurel, incircling the words, 44 Premium
Virtiitis"—the words %i Jic itur ad AJiraon a garter extending on
each fide of the Cherub—and from the wall huog several judici
oufiy placed fefloous and clusters—the whole decorated with flow
efc of various tints—<-which, while dispensing an agreeable odour,
struck the eye very p'eafmgly. Two large American colours* half
displayed, and attached to the v/all on each fide The Presi
dent, had a fine effe£l. To the credit of the gentlemen who ex
ecuted these decorations, we add, that the thousands who visited
the Hall to view them, had but one opinion of them-—and that
an applauding one
The PUBLIC GOOD.—An ODE.
DRIV'N out from Heav'n's ethereal domes,
On earth insatiate Discord roams,
And spreads her baneful influence far;
On wretched man herfcorpion flings* \
Around the afliduous fury flings,
Corroding every bliss, and fliarp'ning ev'ry care.
Hence Demon} hence* in tenfold night
Thy stygian spells employ*
Nor with thy prcfcnce blafl the light
Of that auspicious dayj that gives COLUMBIA joy;
But come thou fofter deity,
tairefl unanimity !
Not more fair the star ttyt leads
Bright Aurora's glowing fleeds,
Or on Hefper's front that lhines,
When the girifh day declines ;
Bring thy uiual train alottg,
Festive dance and choral long,
Loofc rob'd fportj from folly frec^
And mirth reftrain'd by decency.
United, let us all those blessings find,
The God of nature meant mankind;
Whatever oferrof- ill redreftj
Whate'cr of paflion, ill repreft,
Whatever the wicked have conceiv'd^
And folly's heedless sons believ'd—
Let all lie buried in oblivions flood,
Aud our great cement be the PUBLICGOOD.
Enough of war thepenfive muse has sung,
Enough of slaughter trembled on her tongrte,
Then fairer profpetts let her bring,
Than hcftile fields and scenes of blood ;
Since happier hours arc on the wing,
Hafle ! let's promote tht. public good.
No more our tears again shall flow,
Shut are the portals of our woe.
Bright ey'd thy pleafmgpower,
Gilds at length the present hour,
Every anxious thought beguiles,
_ Dreftes every face in smiles*
Nor lets one transient cloud the blifsdeflroy,
Of this auspicious day, that gives C&LUMB I A joy.
The POLITICI AN. ' "
# » AN EXTRACT.
A Politician should have $ large and elevated
foul. It is not fufficient, that his penetration is
rapid, that his judgment is acute, that he is pof
fefled of that vast and happy species of imagina
tion which invents, distributes, conneds ; which
fees at once the whole, and all its parts ; which
puts the mass in agitation, and gives warmth and
vigor to all its dependencies : He must join to all
these an elevation of sentiment, or his character
is imperfeiS;.
SKETCH of PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of tht
UNITED STATES.
Monday, June 8, 1789.
Hon. Michael J. Stone member from Mary,
land appeared in the House, and took the oath.
Mr. Goodhue introduced a petitiou from
Nicholas Pike of Newbury-Port, Maflachu
fetts—the prayer of which was, that Congref'i
would pass a law, to secure to hinihis property
in a work which he had published with great la
bor and expense, entitled A COMPLEAT SYS
TEM OK ARITHMETIC —this was referred to
the committee appointed to bring in a bill to se
cure to authors the benefit of their publications.
Upon motion it was voted, that the several pe
titions from Tradesmen and Manufacturer-,
fhouldbe transmitted to the Senate.
Mr. Mad 1 son, agreeably to notice, moved that
the House now form itfelf into a committee of
the whole, uponthe state of the Union, to take
into consideration the subject of amendments a
greeably to the jth article of the Conftitutioni
Mr. Smith (of South-Carolina) fuggelledthe
inexpediency of taking up the subject at thepre.
sent moment, in a committee of the whole, while
matters of the greatest importance and of im
mediate consequence were lying unfinifhed. The
great business of the revenue appeared to him
to claim a constant and uninterrupted attention
till com pleated—he moved therefore, that instead
of referring the subject to a committee of the
whole, a select committee should be raised, to
take into consideration the amendments proposed
by the several Stares.
Mr. Jackson —I am opposed, Sir, to taking
up thelubjectof amendments to the Constitution,
till we have had some experience of its goodor
bad qualities.—Tlie Constitution may be compar
ed to a ship that has never yet put to sea—she is
now laying in the dock-—we have had no tryal as
yet; we do not know how she may fleer—what fort
of a helm she carries—we can not determine with
any precision, whether Ihe fails upon an even
keel or no—Upon experiment she may prove
faultlefs, or he-r defects may be very obvious—
but the present is not the time for alterations.—
Very important and urgent business now requires
the attention of this honorable body—bufinefsof
such consequence as that of revenue, without
which the constitution is of very little importance
in. itfelf considered.—Should amendments now
be taken up, it will be months perhaps before we
can get through with them—mean time the im
portant interests ofour constituents are facrificed.
The State that I have the honor to represent, has
ratified the Constitution without fpecifying any
amendments, they are fatisfied with it, in its
present form ; till experience shall point out its
defects—l move therefore, Sir, that the conside
ration of the subject of amendments be poftpo*
ned till the firft day of March, 1790.
Mr. Goodhue observed, that though he con
sidered it as being premature to take up the sub
ject of amendments at the present time ; yethe
could not conceive the propriety of poftponingthe
matter to so long a period—it certainly was the
general idea that amendments fhouldbe consider
ed, and a regard to the wishes of our conftituenti
required that they should be aitended to asfoon a)
public interest permitted.
Mr. Bu ke made some objections of a similar
import with those which fell from Mr. Goodhue—
■and thought that the fubjedt of the revenue, was
of the greatest importance to be immediately at
tended to.
Mr. M di so N observed, that the fubjeft had
been postponed from time to time—that the mem
bers might have opportunity more fully to make
up their judgments upon it—a fortnight has
elapsed since the firft alfigned period, and if the
motion for a further distant period should be a
dopted,it would be construed into a design, to take
no serious notice of the business—the propositions
for amendments to the constitution came from va
rious quarters, and those the most refpectable>
and therefore to give some degree of fatisfaction,
it seemed neceflary, that Congress ihould as soon
as poflible, attend to the wishes of their constitu
ents—He did notpropofe that a full investigation
should immediately be gone into —but to quiet the
apprehefions of a great many persons, refpefting
the securing certain rights, which it was flip
pofed were not fufficiently guarded, he thought
it neceflary, that Congress ihould commence the
enquiry, and place the matter in such a train as
o infpirea reasonable hope and expectation, that
full justice would eventually be done to so impor
tant a subject—He therefore renewed his motion
for the House to go into a committee of the whole*
that the investigation of the business might at
least
commence.
Mr. SHERMANfuppofed,that takigup the sub
ject of amendments atthis time woulcl alarm more
persons than would have their apprehensions
quieted thereby—He thought that the necessity of
amendments would be best pointed out by t' l(
dcfects, which experience mav discover in the
constitution.■lW' was received from the Senate, inform
i House that they concurred in their
in§ f,V 28th of May—by which every mem
voCe. 1" funiillied with a 4 compleat sett of the
er 1S T- >f the late Congress.
fc' i llF obferved,that thefubjeAofamend
was of very extensive importance—he iup
tl that the House could not, with any pro
v defer their consideration any longer ; lor
P m uVhthe Conftitutioh had been so generally
,l 'si f ve' it was evident, that alterations and
'amendments were expected by perhaps a majority
° f \| he stl'rH (s!C S ) then introduced a propofi
• ' for the appointment of a feled. committee,
tlo «ketfie business into consideration, and repoit.
Mr' PiOEwas in favour of a committee ot the
whole, and urged the propriety of commencing
r enquiry without any further delay, as a mea
fore that would be productive of very happy con
was opposed to the measure forfe
veJ\ ,-eafons—the incompleteness of the revenue
and judiciary fyltems ;_thefe, he urged, ough.
be tiniihed previous to a difculhon ot amend
ments: The judiciary ljitem may provide a re
medy for some of the defects complained, of-and
without giving the Constitution any operation,
it was impossible to determine what were defects,
or not—and what alterations were necefiary.—
He further observed, that he conceived it necel
farv previous to any di<cuffion of the subject,
that it should be ascertained whether two-thirds
of the House and Senate were ill favour ot en
tering upon the bufinel's—he supposed that the
voice of two thirds \»ere as requilite to ian<ftion
the expediency of the measure, as they were to the
adoption of amendments —He was fully of opinion,
that experience alone, could afcertam the real
qualities of the Constitution—The people are
waitiii" with anxiety for the operation of the Go
vernment—What has Congress done ?—Have they
vafl'eda revenue law?—ls p.ot the revenue daily
efcapin" us?—ls it not of iminenfe confequencc
to compleat the system ?—Let us not perplex our
fclves, by introducing one weighty and important
question after another, till some decisions art
made: This mode of introducing one piece o»
business, before a former one iscompleated, tends
to confufe the mind, and incapacitate it from do
ill"- full juityce to any fubjeel—He hoped, there
fore, that the House would not go into a com
mittee of the y>foU upon this business.
Mr. Madiso-j conceded to the motion for chuf
ing a feleci co. urittee—He then obferx id, Tha:
he°:houcht it would be attended with salutary ef
fefts, should Congress devote, at the prcfenttime,
la much at lead one day to this buiinef, to
convince the world, that the friends of the Con
stitution were aS firm friends to liberty as those
who had opposed it: The advocates for amend
ments are numerous and respect ible-—fome . Ite
ration of the Constitution lays with great weigh;
upon their minds—they merit consideration.—He
urged the expediency of the measure, from the
fituatiou ot ''1 ! -in. - ltd an . .\ T o;t t-C u*olina
He had no doubt that it would conciliate them to
wards the Union, and induce tliem to unite, and
again become b> autiies ot ihe gi eat American 1 a
mily.—He was, he obfei ved, in favour of fund'rj
alterations, or amendments, to the Constitution—
he supposed that they could be made without in!
jury to the fyitein—He did not wish are-conside
ration of the whole—but supposed that alteration!
might be made,without effecting theedential prin
ciples of the Conftitution,which would meet with
universal approbation ; —thefe lie would pro
pose flifiuld be incorporated in the body of the
Constitution.—He then mentioned the several ob
jections which had been made by seVeral of the
States, and by people at large :—A bill of rights
has been the gi eat object contended for—but this
was one of those amendments which he had not
supposed very eflential.— freedom of the
piefe, and the rights ofconfcience, those clioiceft
flowers in the prerogative of the people, are not
guarded by the British Constitution:—With re
fpec r t to these, apprehensions had been entertain
ed of their infeeurity under the new Constitution ;
a bill of rights, therefore, to quiet the ndnds of
people upon these points, may be salutary.—
He then adverted to the several bills of rights,
which were annexed to the Constitutions of in
dividual States ; —the great objetft of these was,
to limit and qualify the powers of Government—
to guard against the encroachments of the Exe
cutive.—ln the Federal Government, the Execu
tive is the v, eakeft—the gi eat danger lies not in
the Executive, but in the great body of the peo
ple—in the disposition which the majority al
ways discovers, to bear down, and depress the
minority.
In stating objections which had been made to
affixing a bill of rights to the constitution, Mr.
Ma di so n observed, that objections to a continen
tal bill of rights applied equally to their adoption
by the States—The objection to a bill of rights,
•rorn the powers delegated by the Constitution,
being defined and limited, has weight, while the
Government confines itfelf to those fpecified li
ttuts; but iuftances may occur, in which those j
limits may he evecrlei, by virtue of a conftruc- |
tion ot that clause empaweringCangrefs to make
all neceflary laws to carry the Conltitution into
execution—The article of general warrants may
be inftanced.—lt has been observed, that the
Constitution does not repeal the State bills 01
rights;—to this it may be replied, that some oi
the States are without any—and that articles con
tained in tliofe that have them, are very impro
per, and infringe upon the rights of human 11a
ure> in several refpeiTts.—lt has been said, thai
bills of rights have beenviolated—but does it fol
low from thence that they do not produce salu
tary eftefts : This obje<slion may be urged againfl
every regulation whatever.—From these, and
other confederations, Mr. Madison inferred the
expediency of a declaration of rights, to be in
corporated dn the Constitution.
Mr. Madison further observed, That thepro
po.tion of Representatives had been objected to —
tnd particularly the discretionary power of'di
nin ifhing the number.—There is an impropriety
in the Legillatures' determining their own coin
penfation, with a power to vary its amount.—
The rights of conscience ; liberty ot the press ,
and trial by jury, should be so secured, as to put
it out of the power of the Legislature to infringe
them.—Fears refpedting the judiciary fyften;,
(hould be entirely done away—and an express de
claration made, that all rights not exprelsly giver
up, are retained.—He wilhed, that a declaration
upon these points might be attended to —and i;
the Constitution can be made better in the view
of its most sanguine supporters, by making fonu
alterations in it, we shall not adt the part of wife
men not to do it—He therefore moved for the ap
pointment of a committee, to propose amend
ments, which should be laid before the Legilla
tures of the several States, agreeably to the jth
article of the Constitution. -
Mr. Jackson observed. That th 6 Hon. Gentle
man's ingenious detail, so far from convincing
him of the expediency of bringing forward the
fubjedt of amendments at this time, had confirmed
him in the contrary opinion : The prof petit which
fucli a discussion opened, was wide and extensive,
and would preclude other business, of much great
er moment, at the present jun'Clure—He differed
widely from the Gentleman, with regard to bills
of rights—several of the States had no such bills—
Rho<?e-Ifland had none—there, liberty was car
ried to excess, and licentiousness triumphed—ln
some States, which had such a nominal security,
the encroachments upon the rights of the people
had been most complained of.— Ihe press, Mr.
Jackson observed, is unboundedly free—-a recent
instance of which the House had witnefled in an
attack upon one of its members—A bill of rights
is a mere ignis fatuus, amusing by appearances,
and leading often to dangerous' conclusions. —
I repeat it, Sir, the present is not the time to
bring forward amendments—they inuft be specu
lative and theoretical in the very nature of things,
and may themselves be the fubje«fls of future a
mendments.—This consideration points out in the
clearest manner, the propriety of waiting the re
sult of experiment, to determine the merits of the
Constitution : To that let us refer the fubje<Sl,and
not watte our time in useless speculations.
Mr.'Gerry thought it unnectHary to go into
a committee of the whole upon this fubjedt at
the present moment. —He did not think such a
step neceflary to fatisfy the people,iwho are ful
ly sensible that Congress is now engaged in the
areat objetfts of the government —hevwfhed liow
ver, that as early a day as poflible, might be as
signed, that the mode of another convention
might not be thought of—in which we might
lose the most efl'ential parrs of the constitution—
he observed, that he was not a blind admirer of
the system, there were deserts as well as beau
ties in it but as it was now become the coufti
tution of the Union, he conceived, that the sal
vation of the country depended upon its efta
blilhment, amended or not. —He was further in
favor of an early day,, on account of North-Ca
rolina and Rhode-I/land, as the acceflion of these
States to the Union was very desirable, and good
policy dictated that every proper step should be
taken to expedite that event.—He was opposed
to referring the matter to a select committee
as derogatory to the dignity of the States he
conceived the whole of the amendments propo
sed by the several conventions should come im
mediately before the House-— Ihe faith of Con
gress ought to be considered as pledged to take
up this business upon the most extensive scale—
He moved therefore, that all the various propo
sitions for amendments Ihould be referred" to a
committee of the whole, and that an early day
be afligned to go into a full investigation of the
fubjeeff— and proposed the firft Monday in July.
Several other gentlemen spoke upon the fub
jetfl, when _
Mr. Madison arose and withdrew his lalt mo
tion for a felec r t committee, and then submitted
the House a resolve compriz/ng a number of
amendments to be incorporated in the constitu
tion, these he read for the consideration of the
House.
Mr. Livermore was opposed to this resolve—
he conceived it entirely improper for any indi
vidual number to propose any particular number
of which do not take up the differ
ent amendments piopofed by the several Slates;
Mr. Page and Mr. L e rose to jufti
fy Mr. Madison, they thought theihfelves under
gieat obligations to him, and conceived fhat the
node he had adopted was juit and fail -—and cal
culated tobriiig the attention of the House tp a
proper point in determining ilie fubjecft.
Mr. Madison observed, that it was neceflary
he subject Ihould be bi ought for V.aid hi fonie
form or other.— after wailing a considerable time
for oLhers to do it—he had thought proper to -
propose the form, now fubwiitted to the Houfe —
newspapers and pamphle s were lie epolitories cf
the several amendments—those 'veie not the
proper sources—the resolve is now before the
Houfe,and they may do what they tliink proper
with it.
Mr. Lawrance moved, that the revive intro
luced by Mr. Madison, ihould be ftibmittcd to
he confideratioti of a committee of the whole
011 the state of the Union.
Mr. Boudinot propofeda fcletft committee to
consist of a member from each State.
After a few mrfre observations the motion of
Mr. Lawrance being put was carried in the af
firmative.—The House then adjourned.
Tuesday, June 9, i7s9*
House met perfuant to adjournment.
Upon motion it was voted, that this day fort
night .he House will resolve itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole, to take into consideration the
report of the committee refpeAing the enroll
ment, attestation, &c. of the a<fts of Congress.
It was moved,that the rule of the House which
enjoins a division of the members, in cafe of doubt
as to the decision of any question, Ihould be a
mended,by faying, that the members in the af
firmative Ihould ife in their places, and Hand till
counted —this motion obtained.
The House thenrefolved itfelf into a committee
of the whole, and resumed the bill on the collec
tion of the revenue.
Forts of delivery under consideration.
Previous to making any further nomination of
such ports-»-it was moved, that the Ihores, bays,
rivers, creeks and harbours, be divided into as
many diftricfts as there are po: s of entry in the
United States.—This motion after a difcuflion
was adopted.
It was moved to insert a clause, whereby masters
of ships and other vell'els loaded with goods,
wares, and merchandise, and bound into the Uni
ted States from any foreign port, should be obli
ged to produce duplicate manifeftos of their
refpe<ftive cargoes, to any officers of the cultoms
that mdy demand the fame, previous to their en
tering the ports ofdeftination.
This motion gave rife to a lengthy converfa
ti on which terminated in withdrawing the motion.
It was then voted, that a Collector, a Na
vai Ofi ict k, ,and a Surveyor should be ap
pointed each of the following ports, viz.
Boston, New-York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Nor
folk and Port/mouth, Altxandria, Virginia,; George
town in Maryland, Charleflon, South-Carolina,
and Savanna. —Tfie committee then rose and the?
House adjourned. . ■
NEW-YORK, JUNE 10, 1789.
It is indeed a substantial right,' that all the laws of the country
Ihould be nude by reptefematives chosen by the great body o£
the people. In this the body of the people have strong hold of
-overnment. If they will always keep good hold of this r'ght,
and use it properly, the government will be free and happy. It r
they will be faithful to themfelvcs and their country, in always
urning out and choosing the molt honest and able m< n they have
for their repreferttatives, their rights and liberties will be well fe
ared, and there is no danger but the government will go on well.
It should be feUai one of the moll important and eonfcientious
rlui its, to be honest and faithftil in the c! o . r o; their reprcfenta
tives. But it the body of the people will (la;* at home at such
Mil I. and fuller mm who have nothing but f. If interest at bottom,
to ptifh forward and get to be the law makers of the land, the
new cbnftitution will be no better than lie old One easy max
im well followed, will now keep us all fate, let every man that
has a right to vote, make a point always to attend evety elcfiio«,
ind impartially vote for such, as he thinks mots hontfl and moffc
able to I'eive their country.
There is one advantage which we may promise ourfelvfs from
the thorough investigation of the Revenue System—it will come
forth at last in greater ptrfeftion. .
Perhaps there is no part of legislation so difficult as to devitc
the mod easy and acceptable methods of raising the neceflary re
venue from the pockcts of the people : all wife and patriotic ru-
Icrs arc as folicitousto adjust the public burdens upon the scale of
equity, as they are to realize fufficient funds for the support of
just government.
Extract of a Utter from Bojlcn, dated June 4, i7°9-
{t There has been three important seizures of goods, made by
the revenue officers, within these few days. This w ill pave the
way for an efficient ex cution of the new laws,. t
Since scaling the letter, I am credibly informed, that a rr.o
:ion has been made, in the General Court, by Mr. Henskaw,
that a joint Committee be appointed to prepare an address to the
President of the United States, congratulating him on his appoint
ment —exprefling the attachment of the Legislature to his perfon
ind their intention to give every altiftance to his exertions for
;>romotin t the common good, agreeably to the Federal Conilitu
;ion. The motion being fecooded, palled in the affirmative una
iimoufly. Mr. Hensh at, Dr. Jarvis, and Mr. Mason were
:hofen or. the part of the Ho"l<-."
There have arrived in this port since Friday last, upwards 01 30
"til of veflels. ______
h fiur paper of 30th tilt, roe gave an extract from the injlruftions
of the Duke of Orleans : The fetches handed us on Saturday, do not
correspond uitfi thcn—ive therefore repeji font fatisjaflion as to tmr
genuin^nefs,before they affeaf*Tht RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON-
W EALTH 'EXAMINED.
{Continued from our /<?//.]
Camillus, to spare himfelf reproach and envy,
Dictator as he was, wrote to the senate, " that
by the favor oi the Gods, his own exertions, and
the patience of the soldiers, Veii would loon be
in his hands, and therefore he desired their di
rections what to do with the spoils." The senate
were of two opinions: Licinius was forgiving
notice to all the citizens that they might go anil
(hare in the plunder ; Appius Claudius would
have it all brought into the public treasury, or
appropriated to the payment of the soldiers,
which would ease the people of taxes. Licinius
replied, that if the money should be brought to
the treasury, it would be the cause of eternal
complaints, murmurs, and seditions. The latter
advice prevailed, and the plunder was indifirimi
nate, for the city of Veii, after a ten years siege,
in wliich many commanders had been employed,
i\as at last taken by Camillus by stratagem ; and
the opulence of it appeared lb great, that the
dictator was terrified at his own good fortune, and
that of his country. He prayed the gods, if it
mufl: be qualified with any disgrace, that it might
tall upon him, not the commonwealth. This pie
ty and patriotifm,'however,did not always govern
Camillus : His triumph betrayed an extravagance
of "canity more than bordering on profanenefs ;
he_ had the arrogance and presumption to liarnefs
four white horses in his chariot, a colour peculiar
to Jupiter and the Sun, an ambitibn more than
Roman, more than human. Here the people
were very angry w:th Camillus for having too
little reverence for religion : The next moment
they were still more incensed against hiin for hav
ing too much, for he reminded them of a vow
he had made to consecrate a tenth part of the
spoils to Apollo. The people, in short, did not
love Camillus ; and the senate adored him be
caule he opposed the multitude on all occasions,
without any relerve, and appeared the most ar
dent and aftjve in refilling their caprices. It
wasealier to conquer enemies than to please citi
zens*- This mighty aristocratic grew so unpopu
tT' t^lat ° ne - t * le tr^unes accused him before
the people oi applying part of the spoils of Veii
V > .' 1 l?. own u^"e > a,; d finding, upon cohfulting
, ""iends, that he had no chance of acquittal,
lie went into voluntary banishment at Ardea :
but he prayed to the gods to make his ungrate
ful country regret his absence. He was tried in
his absence, and condemned in a fine.—Had
Nedham s constitution existed at Rome, would
Camillus have iakenVeii, or been made dictator,
or employed at all ? Certainly not. Characters
much more plausible would have run him down,or
have obliged him to imitate all their indulgencies.
In all rhefe examples of Cincinnatus, Curius,
r abius, and Camillus, &c. our author quotes exam
ples of virtues which grew up onlyin a few arifto
cratical families, were cultivated by the emula
tion between the two orders in the State, and by
tneir struggles to check and balance each other,
to prove the excellence of a Hate where there is
but one order, no emulation and no balance. This
is like the condudl of a poet, who should enume
rate the cheerful rays and refulgent glories of the
iun in a description of the beauties of midnight.
Whether succession is, or is not, the grand pre
servative again!): corruption, the United SLates
of America have adopted this author's idea in this
Reason, so far as to make the governor and
ienate, as well as the house of representatives,
annually elective. They have therefore a clear
aim bis congratulations. They are that liap
py nation : 1 hey ought to rejoice in the wisdom
and justice of their trustees ; far certain limits
and bounds are fixed to the powers in beinjx, by
adeclaredfucceJhon of thefupreme authority an
nually in the hands of the people.
It is still, however, problematical, whether
this Aiccelnon will be the grand preservative a
gainlt corruption, or the grand inlet to it. The
elections of governors andfenators are so guarded
that there is room to hope ; but, if we recolletfL
t, e experience of past ages and other nations,
there are grounds to fear. The experiment is
made, ar.d will have fair play. If corruption
breaks in, a remedy must be provided; and
what that remedy must be is well enough known
to every man who thinks.
Our authors examples are taken from the Ro
mans, after the abolition of monarchy, while the
government was an aristocracy, in the hands of
a senate, balanced only by the tribunes. It is most
certainly true, that a (landing authority in the
hands of one, the few, or the many, has an im
petuous propensity to corruption ; ' and it is to
controul this tendency that three orders equal and
inuependent of each other, are contended for in
the legislature. While power was in the hands
of a senate, according to our author, the people
were even in danger of losing their liberty. It
would be nearer the truth to fay, that the peo
* Exccllentibus ingeniis citing defuerit ars qus civem recant
<{uani qua hoftem fuperent. Liv. ii. 43.
' »
pie had ho liberty,or a very imperfed: and uncer
tain liberty ; none at all before the inttitution of
the tribunes, and but an imperfect lhare after
wards ; becaufethe tribunes were an unequal bal
ance to the fenate,and lb on the other fide were the
consuls. " Sometimes in danger from kingly
afpirers." But whose fault was that ? The senate
had a futlicient abhorrence of fach conspiracies :
It was the people who encouraged the ambition
of particular peifons to aspire, and who became
their partizans. Melius would have been made
a King by the people, if they had not been check
ed by the senate ; and so would Manlins : To be
convinced of tliis, it isneceflary only to recollect
the ttory.—Spurius Melius, a rich citizen of the
Equettrian order, in the year before Clirilt 437,
and of Rome the 31 jth, a time offcarcity and fa
mine, aspired to the consulship. He bought a
large quantity of corn in Etruria, and distribu
ted It among the people. Becoming by his libe
rality the darling of the populace, they attend
ed his train, wherever he went, and promiled
him the cons ulfhip. Sensible, however, that the
lenators, with the wliole yuintian family at
their head, would oppose him, he mult use force ;
and as ambition is insatiable, and cannot be con
tented with what is attainable, he conceived that
to obtain the sovereignty would cost him no more
trouble than the consulship. The election came
on, and as he had not concerted all his measures,
1 • Quintius Capitolinus and Agrippa Menonius
Lanatus were cholen by the influence of the se
nate. L. Minutious was continued prasfetftus an
nona?, or superintendent of provisions : His of
fice obliged him to do in public the fame that
Melius affe<fled to do in private ; so that the fame
land of people frequented the houl'es of both,
f - rom them he learned the tranfa<ftions at Melius's
and informed the senate, that arms were carried
J.ito his houle, where he held aflemblies, made
harrangues, and was taking nieafure to make
himfelf King ; and that the tribunes, corrupted
by money, had divided among them the mea
i 111 es neccilary to secure the fuocefs of the enter-
P n ?tl .Quintals Capitolinus proposed a dictator,
and Oumtius Cincinnatus (for the Quintian f a !
mily were omnipotent) was appointed. The
earnest entreaties and warm remonstrances of
the whole senate prevailed on him to accept the
tiutt, after having long refuled it, not from any
reluctance to public fercice, but on account of
his great age, which made him believe himfelf
incapable of it. Imploring the gods not to fuf
fer his age to be a detriment to the public, he
consented to be nominated, and immediately ap
gointed Ahala matter of the horse, appeared
Suddenly in the forum with his lienors, rods, and
axes ascended the tribunal with all the ensigns
of the sovereign authority, and sent his matter
of horse tbfumnum Melius before liiin. Melius
endeavoured in his firft surprize to escape : A
Mcl,us complained that he
was tobefacrificed to the intrigues of the senate
for the good he had done the people. The peo
ple grew tumultuous : his partisans encouraged
each other, and tooxliini by force from the lie
tor. Melius threw himfelf into the crowd : Ser
fworH T h im, run him through with his
lwoid, and returned, covered with his blood, to
r* an ,, a rT t0 , the di<ftaCor of wl «t he had
You ha^ e d " ne wel V laid Cincinnatus ;
continue to defend your country with the fame
courage as you have now delivered it—Madte vir
tute etto liberata republica.'-
he P eo P le being in great commotion,the ditfa-
Iv ki!], V m 1/ and P ronou " ces Melius jutt
y lied. With all our admiration for the 1110
v" " ,odeft y» the simplicity and subli
mity of h ls character, it mutt be confeflfcd that
J'" 6 " ln the harrangue of Cincinnatus more of
the anttocratical jealousy of Kings and oligarchies
and even more of contempt of the
Of a foul devoted to equal liberty, or pofleflbd of
underftandingto comprehend it : It is the speech
of a simple arittpcratic, pofltfled of a great foul
ir,? "PT m Whlch ' such was arittocratical
jealouly of monarchy and oligarchy, Brutus had
pumfhedhis son ; Collatinus Tarquinius, in mere
hatred of his name, had been obliged to S
cate the confuifhip and banish himfelf; Spurius
Caffius had been put to death for intending to be
King ; and the decemvirs had been punished with
coimfcation, exile, and death,for their oligarchy
In such a city of ariftocratics Melius had etneeiv
r:! J'r-° Pe ° f beU 'S a , Kin S- "Kt quis homo ?"
ays Cincinnatus ; and who was Melius ? *' quan
;; quam nullam nobilitatem,nnllos honoresSa
merita cuiquam ad dominationem pandere
fed tamen Clandios, Caffios, confulati
" bus' ftlend Vlra f -I- AliS lna j° rU!,l que honori
bus fplendore famiharum inftnlifTb animos
quo nefas fuerit*." Melius, therefore, was not'
;;
anceltoro, and the lplendor o( their famifie./'—ls their J
maiden aunt Eleanor, of fevnty years of age, in any family "hr
brain is more replete with the haughty ideas of blood [h 3
of the magnanimous Cincinnatus appears P R
~c d in , vaft contempt I The equcftrian order is no honn
nobility; that too is held in sovereign disdain ' Beneficed °°J
charity, „. a most cxaltcd
a traitor but a monster; his cllate nn.ft be con "''
cated, his lioufe pulled down, and theip ot V""
ed yLcjuiiiielium, as a monument of the cr'" '*
and the punifhment,(Liv.lib.iv. c . 13,14, K ,T\
and his corn distributed to the populdce
cheap in order them. This whole !},'
ry u a demonlh ation of the oppreilion of th 6
people under the ariftocraty , of the extreme
jealousy ot that ardtocracy of Kings, of an oli
garchy, and , of popular power; of the constant
lecrct NviL.es of the people to I'd up a Kin- tj
defend them againlt the nobles, aid of thei
readinefs to fall in with the views of any rich man
whoflatteredthsm, and set him up as a monarch
hut it is a.ii.<rrt unfortunate ililtance for Ned'.iaji)
It was not the people who defended the renub'
he agamft the designs of Melius, but thefenate
defended it against both Melius and the people'
Had Rome been then goverened by « IVjarcha
mont Nedham 's right Constitution of a Common
wealth, Melius would infallibly "have b*e~i
made a King, and have transmitted his crown to
his heirs. Ihe necelfity of an independent fe
nate,as a check upon the people, is molt apparent
m this mftance. if the people had been un
checked, or it they had only had the right of
choofingan house ot representatives unchecked,
they would in either cafe have crowned Melius.
ariftocratet were griping the people 'to death by the mod crurl
revenues, aid the Bioftford.d and ava.icious ufurv, was no ™
fIL fT consulships, decetnviratej, honors, ar ,d the
n d :,° flml !' h " h " profound adm.ration Ind
such ' »h y C !' C ! m /" CC ot th,s "ppears in this fpecch, and
was the rcal of the man : And whoever celebrate
or commemorates Ctncmnitus as a patron of libertv
not Jus character, or underAands not t|e nature "
(To*be continued.)
An ESSAY on FREE TRADE and FINANCES^
particularly jhcluing what supplies of public reve
nue may be drawn from Merchandise, without in
jurmg our trade or burdening our people,
[by a Citizen of Philadelphia in, 1783.]
(Continuedfrom No. XV.)
VII When any country finds that any arti
cles are growing into use, and their confumptio,
liicreahng io far as to become hurtful to the pros
perity of the people, or to corrupt their moral*
or (Economy, tis the interest a,id good policy of fuck
country 16 check and diminijh the use and ionfvLtb
on 0} such articles, down to fucli degrees as lliall
conlift with the greatest happi'iefs and puritv of
their people. 1 J
VIII. This is done the most effectually and un
exceptionably, by taxingfuch articles, and thereby
raijing them Jo high, as shall be neceflary to reduce
their confumpDon, as far as is needful for the ge
neral good. The force of this observation has been
felt by all nations, and sumptuary laws have been
tried in all shapes, to prevent or reduce fuchhurt
confumptions; but none can doit lb effectually
as raising the price ofthem : This touches the feelings
ot every purchaser, and connects the use of fucli
articles with the pain of the purchaser, who can
not ailord them, so closely and so constantly, as
, t0 °P erate h y way of diminution or
If ofTuchconfumption; and as tofuch richcr
pt o ,ga people, as can or will go to the price of
such articles they are the very persons which I
t 111 v 1 te most able and suitable to pay taxes to
the State. I think it would not be difficult to
enumerate a great number of such articles of lux
ury, pride, or mere ornament, which are grow
ing into such exceflive use among us, as to become
angerous to the wealth, economy, morals, and
health of our people, viz. diftillcd spirits of all
orts, tlpeoally whilkey and country rum; all
imported wines ; silks of all forts, cambricks,
aw n, laces, &c. See. fuperfine cloaths and velvets;
jc At , or all kinds, &c. to which micrht be added
a very large catalogue of articles, thoueh notfo
capita y t angerous as these, yet such as would
admit a check in their consumption, without any
amage tot he States, such as sugar, tea, coffee, cocoa,
me mens ; all cloaths and fluffs generally used
>y the richer class of people, &c. all which may
be judiciously taxed at ten, twenty, fifty, or one
hundred per cent, on their firft importation ; and
to these might be added, afmall duty of perhaps
live per cent.on all other importedgoods whatever.
1 wo things are here to be confidefed and pro
vt ' * * . at this mode of taxation would be
more beneficial to the community,than any other!
,2 . i hat this mode is practicable, if these
two things are fairly and clearly proved, I think
t leie can be no room left for doubt, whether
tnis kind of taxation ought to be immediately
adopted, and put in practice.
I will offermy reafdnsin favor of tl r '";'opo*
litions as fully, clearly, andtrul-
hope they may be judged wort> , £ ecl yorw.
attention. I will endeavor in tt. n ° r ' n
point out the benefits arising fro* 8 arifi »g fro:
taxatlon - (To be continue 7° be
p ub]^ e r b 77oTr f n^N^ = °> No
'lrear thc Ufr'go-Marktt, Nsw-Yor" York '"