[No. XVIII.]
THE TABLE T. No. XVIII.
« One of the chief Tifipjior.s between a wife m.n
, a holts, that while the latter J,/covers whatever
r ~J, hi o ire ft, the farmer only communicates
tisfvej m*J J"£S e J[> J, J
*kiti>t"t er, ° '
A TALKATIVE, forward youth, was presen
ted to a celebrated teacher of rhetoric, to
k iDftrnded in the art of oratory. The guar-
L, of the intended pupil enquired of the pro
fZr what sum he usually demanded for a courle
Sftraffion ? The inftrudtor without giving a
lea answer to the question replied,
ever was his com 111 on price fortuiuon he lhould
occasion alk a double sum ; ' for, laid
r «. ifcall be obliged to teach tlus lad to hold
fcktoiifrne, before he can with propriety oe learnt
to speak. It is not only necellary that a perlon
ftould know hew to speak but when to-fpeak. I
Jwavs tod trouble in managing a boy wlio is dis
posed to make more use of his tongue than Ins
"somany eflavs have been written on the sub-
ill-timed, indiscreet conversion, tliat
Lhaps no reader will wish to fee luch a topic
introduced. There is, however, one quefhon
connected with this fubjedt, that I have a mind to
X- persons are at a loss to determine which
facceeds bell in the world, a man of a modejl, or
mfuiittt carriage. There is great difference of
opinion on thia point. Indeed the fame perlon,
ar different times, thinks differently on it.
When one observes a man of small abilities,
and a narrow spirit, whose company is courted
in (he rjoft falhionable circles, merely becaule
he favs what he pleases without rellraint, and
fears and regards nobody, it is apt to force a
conclusion that impudence has very attractive
chirms. On the other hand, when a perlon of
dull genius and reserved manners, beguiles peo
ple into a belief that he polielies great wisdom
and penetration, it leads to a fuppolition, that
silence and gravity are the moll iiiiallible means
to secure reputation.
What rule can therefore be formed to diretfl
the Heps of a youth, iniiitroduciiigliimfelf, with
the belt advantage, to the world
Perhaps few directions can be given, that will
be applicable alike to all persons and to all situ
ations. The condutfl and behaviour of any par
ticular peifon must depend on his difpoliuon,
and on the obje<fts he proposes to accomplilh
by his intercoufe with mankind. If he has a na
tural volatility of spirits, and wiihes to obtain
thofepleafures that result from being noticed in
a great variety of mixed companies, he will find
that prattle and vivacity will promote such views
more effectually than a inodeft diltant misdemea
nor. The fact is, he a<fts in his proper charac
ter, and avoids the charge of affectation. He is
trifled with, without being ridiculed ; and at
tended to, without being refpeefted : He is well
received in many polite parties, and cats many
good dinners. Senfiblemen fay he is merry and
harnilefe; and those who have no more under
ftandingtban liimfelf, declare, that he is a man
of wit and humour: His noise and buttle give him
aconfequence with the undifcerning part of man -
kind; while those who ■view him, as he deserves,
donotwiih the trouble of difpnring his pretentions
tofach a degree of eftima:ion,as he acquires. In
ihort, he becomes a privileged mail; nobody of
fend him, «r is offended at liim. He fays what
te pleases to others; while they in their* turn,
% what they please to him, without any ill hu
mour on either fide.
Eat aperfon of a different temper, and who
ias different wiihes to gratify, must model his
manners upen far other principles. A man of a
flow perception and grave call of mind, can only
ofnveimportance by concealing, ss much aspol
"hle, the defccrs of his underltajiding and the
toldnefs of his heart. For this purpole, his in
tercourfcs with men should be few and reserved.
de fliould speak little, and affect such an air of
jcyftery as will make people imagine, that he
back fomctfring much more important than
*hat he communicates. He will no doubt have
*nonlege enough toraake some proper remarks ;
"id he fbould have prudence never to make tiny
frif Those who are as dull as him
c't think he is a prodigy of wisdom; while those
ave penetration to fee through the disguise,
it not in their power to convince other peo-
P eof the deception. This prudent man commits
0 a «, and delivers 110 opinion that can be ur
E e to his. rea ] <JifadvaHtage. In short, he is a
Jgative character, which can stand tlie brunt
« positive attacks.
cm we f ay to appearances that are so
nrutraqictory : They lhew the difficulty of draw-
SATURDAY, June 15, 1789.
ing general conclusions, with regard to our con
duct in life. Men inuft ast in some degree
from their predominant disposition, and from
their accidental situation in society. My obser
vations thus far have supposed that these two
characters ; the one remarkable for sobriety and
reserve, the other for jollity and loquaciousness
were alike void of superior understanding or
attainments. They both gain more estimation
than they deserve, but for different reafbns.
The popularity that each of tliein sustains would
be loft, if they were reciprocally to a&the part,
the other hadalTumed.
The subject (hall be once more introduced.
CHARACTER OF THE FRENCH.
From Sherlock's Letters.
IN England the French have few friends. But
they have one ; and that one am I. They could,
not, I acknowledge, have a feebler advocate; but
while 1 have a tongue tofpeak, or a pen to write,
wherever I go I'll do them juftite.
Let every man who inov/J that nation speak of
it as he found it; if he lived in their intimacy for
years (as I did) and if he found them ill natured,
ill-mannered, treacherous, and cowardly, let him
speak his mind. I quarrel with no man who jud
ges for hiD'felf, and who speaks the truth. But
let the indulgence I grant, be granted to me a
gain ; and let me be permitted to tell the world,
that, however other men may have found them,
I found them good-humored, good-naturedj brave,
polished, frank, and friendly.
They tutre my friendj, faithful and just to mc ;
Bu: ftruius lays they are petjiditus;
And Brutus is an honorable man.
I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke;
Bui here I am to jpeak uhat I do knozc.
I found them all animated with a desire to please,
and always ready to do me every service in their
power. I owe them a thousand obligations. 1
had faults; they corrected them : 1 wanted know
ledge ; they informed me : I was rough ; they
foftened me : I was lick ; they "vilited me : I was
vain; they flattered me : I had need of council ;
they gave mc the best advice: every man has
need of agreeable company; and every man may
be fare to find it in France.
OF THE LADIES OF FRANCE.
Bythtfamr.
WHEN a French lady comes into a room, the
fii ft thing that strikes you is, that she walks bet
ter, holds herfelf better, has her head and feet
better drefled, her cloaths better fancied, and
better put on, than any woman you have ever seen.
When she talks, she is the art of pleasing per
fonified. Her eyes, her lips, her words, her ges
tures, are all prepofTefling. Her language is the
language of amiablenefs ; her accents are the ac
cents of grace. She embellishes a trifle ; she in
terests upon a nothing ; she foitens a contradic
tion ; she takes off the insipidness of a compli
ment by turning it elegantly ; and, when she has
a mind, she fliarpens and polishes the point of an
epigram better than all the women in the world.
Her eyes sparkle with spirit; the most delight
ful sallies slash from her fancy ; in telling a story
die is inimitable ; the motions of her body, and
the accents of her tongue, are equally genteel
and easy ; an equable flow of foftened fprightli
linefs keeps her constantly good-humoured and
cheerful ; and the only objects of her life are to
please, and to be pleased.
Her vivacity may sometimes approach to folly ;
but perhaps it is not in her moments of folly she
is least interesting and agreeable. English women
have many pointsof superiority over the French;
the French are superior to them in many others,
i have mentioned some of those points in other
places. Here I shall only fay, there is a particu
lar idea in which no woman in the world can
compare with a French woman ; it is in the pow
er of intellectual, irritation. She will draw wit out
of a fool.
[• Published on Wednesday and Saturday.]
EXTRACT FROM 44 AMERICAX ESSAYS."
ON EMIGRATION,
Cal'un non animum mutant, qui trans mare currunt;
Quod pttis, hie ejlj
Efl u/nbris ; animus Ji te non deficit aquas.
Horace, Epift. xi. lib. i.
IT is evidently wife and prudent in the Scotch and Jrijh, parti
cularly those of them who are poor ; as alio in the inhabitants of
any other country, alike circumstanced, with refpe& to exceflivc
population, and poverty, and the consequent difficulty of acquire
ing lands, or any other property, and many of them of procuring
even the neceflaries erf life, to migrate to countries more fertile, and
less populous ; where, with a moderate fhareof industry, they may
probably soon become lords of foil, and enjoy a plenty of all the
neceffariesof lite,with new and plealingfenfations of independence,
and cons quence, never fek in tne depressed and servile state of the
poor in Europe : Yet it is by no means prudent, or commendable,
in the present inhabitants ot the eastern States, who in general en
joy all the neceftaries, and many of the conveniences of life, with
health, and a competent (hare of liberty and independence, to re
move into the remote interior country, or Wefiern territory, with the
vain hope of meliorating their fortunes or circumstances.
As I am one of those who have been induced to quit my-native
foil, with the hope of reaping some advantage by tne exchange;
and having seen many different parts of America, from Nova-Sco
tiaeaftward to Weil-Fiorida, 1 am induced to draw this conclusion,
That the new countries, which owetheir population to emigrations
principally from the eastern States, are more indebted to the fertil
ity of human invention, than to the extraordinary fecundity of their
foil, or any other natural advantages ; and though from a compar
ative view of the state of the poor in Europe, I have reason to be
lieve, that they would make a very eligible exchange, in takiag
the chance of any situation within the boundaries ot the United
States ; yet I mull inlift that I have yet seen no country where I
conceive the induflrions inhabitants of the New-England States, par
ticularly the mechanics and farmers, could remove with the proba
ble profpeft of greater real advantages, taken in the aggregate, than
they enjoy at home: It is therefore of the last importance, espe
cially to those who have families, that they consider, and deliber
ate well, before they conclude to reftgn their old friends, their
near and dear relations—their healthy, cheap, plentiful, and happy
country, and proceed to the serious, momentous,aud often ruinous
bufinels of plucking upflakes.
So powerful is the attachment of mankind to the place of their
birth, that however poor, barren, cold, comfortlefs, and ungrate
ful their native country, yet few men emigrate without regret.—
Go to the inhabitants ot Nova-Zembla, and describe the rich lux
uriant fruits, the fertile fields, warm (uns, and constant vegetation
of the tropic clunes ; yet, will they fcora them all, nor dare to
burst their arQic bounds, but fondly hug their cruel pole, and pa
tient delve their ftubbornfoil; there they contented toil afruitlefs,
tedious, half-year's day ; and under fierce relentless ikies, on beds
of bard, eternal ice, wrapped in theirfrigid zone, fre<xe, sleep, and
starve an equal night—few their enjoyments, and their trouble 9
few—they know no luxury, and seal no gout.
Yet as the mind of man is informed, dilates, and expands, so
his. wants and ddires cncreaie; to gratify which, he ventures*
though relu&antlv, abroad ; still the dupe of early prejudices ; he
js frequently led by them into many ridiculous extravagancies ;
R.ufes on the pleafurcs he enjoyed at home; forgets the Tubs ; and
if he meets a disappointment, often rims home, like ftrickea chil
dren to their mothers,and like there otten meets another scourging.
The hardy, brave, and yet unconquered Swiss, hired into foreign
service, meet dangers, and death, in any (hape, with steady front ;
yet tlicxe are certain tunes peculiar to their country, which are »ot
permitted in France to be played in thole regiments ; their native
inuiic having been repeatedly found to produce very serious con
sequences, by kindling such an ardent and irrefiftable desire to re
turn to the;r own homes, and beloved houlhold gods, that no
flattery, or threats, bribes or pumlhmenis, could prevent melan
choly, mutinies, and desertions.
Mr. Kolien relates, " That one of the Dutch Governors at the
" Cape of Good Hope, brought up an Hottentot according to the fafhions
44 and cufioms oj the Europeans—teaching him JeveraTlanguages, and
44 instructing km fully tn the principles ofthe Oiriflian religion ;at the
" Jame tune cloattuvg him handsomely, and treating him in all refpeds
44 as aperfonfer whom he had an high efleem, and whom he defignedfor
44 some bcncjuial and honorable employment. The Goiemour ajUrwards
44 sent him to Batavia, where he teas employed under the CommiJTary for
44 feme time, /ill that gentleman died—and then he returned to the Cape
44 of Good Hope. Hut having paia a visit to the Hottentots of his ac
-44 quaintanie, fie threw off all his fine cloaths, bundled them up, laid
44 tieto at the Governor's feet, anddefiredhe might be allowed to renounce
44 Jus chrifliamty, and to live and die in the religion and cufloms of his
44 anceflnrs ; only requeuing that he might be permitted to keep the hanger
44 ana cottar which tie wore, in token of his regard to his benefatlor.
44 While the Governor was deliberating upon this, Ccarce believing the
44 fellow io be in eamefi, the young Hottentot took the opportunity of
44 running away, ana never afterwards came near the Cape, thinking
44 himftlj happy, that he had exchanged his Europeandrefs for afheep-Jkir. y
44 an j that he had abandoned the hopes of preferment for thefociety of /us
44 relations and countrymen."
44 Tne Enghfk Eafl-lndia Company made the like experiment upon
44 two young Hottentots, with no betterfuccefsSee Millar,oq the
Diftintlion of Ranks in Society, chap. in. page ixg, quar. edit
Hence we fee the almost invinceable attachment of mankind to
the place of their birth, of which few feel the power and operation
till deprived of the enjoyment; this privation we find is fome
t mes insupportable under the most favorable circumstances, as in
the cafe of the Hottentots; it is therefore natural to suppose, it
would not bemore tolerable in cases of difficulties and disappoint
ments, which all are sure to meet with, who are so unfortunate as
to emigrate from polished life and manners, into new, rude, re-?
mote, uncultivated countries. E. C.
MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES.
[London, March 30.] The revolution which
has taken place at Geneva is the more remarka
ble, as it is the firft time these 3 J years, that the
whole republic have, with one consent, made and
agreed to any laws, nor was there ever a greater
day of rejoicing than the 13th ult. On the 7th
the Senate laid before the council of 200, the
laws required, which were approved of, inglobo,
by the majority 133 againlt 9. On the 13th,
they were carried to the Council-General, and
approved o£by 1327 votes against 54.
The moment the fcrunity was declared at the
Cathedral,a general acclamation of joy was heard.
They afterwards went to the town-house, where
all parties embraced each other. The Senate wasiurrounded by 400 youths in uniforms, and three
discharges made from one hundred pieces of
cannon. lir the evening there was a general il
lumination, and the chief club of the old re
presentatives finiflied it by giving a supper to the
principal magiltrates.
1 he affairs ot Poland remain in the fame state
ot uncertainty as they have done tor some time
pall.
Dil'patches have been received from Gibraltar,
which were brought over in the Active Cutter,
arrived off the Mart. They are dated the 10th
111 ft. and contain an account of two Barbary cor
sairs having palled that place with an American
bark in tow ; the corsairs were under jury-malts,
und that provilions were very plenty and reason
able.
Ext raft of a letter from Paris, March 16.
" The Prince of Naflau let offfor Madrid on the
5 th. charged, it is thought with some commiilioii
fioni the Empress to the King of Spain, he being
the only Monarch wliofe mediation Ruliia has 1101
rejec'ted. The expedition of the Prince of Aaf
lau is extraordinary ; for in less than forty days
lie will have paid his court to five Sovereigns. He
stopped three days at Warsaw, five at Vienna,
ieven here, in eight days he will be at Madrid,
and thinks on returning to Peterlburgh before
the Bth of May. It is thought that the King oi
Spain, who, when Prince of Afturias, had a greai
regard for him, will appoint him a Lieutenant-
General, two ol his Cadets, Camp-Marshals, hav
ing already been raised to that rank. He will
likewile have the order of the golden fleece, which
was promised by the late King. Though ftil]
young, his hair, owing to fatigue, begins to be
come grey, but he is in good health, and will
certainly be in the Black sea before the month oi
June, ready to face the Captain-Patlia again."
COMMERCIAL.
The silks imported from Piedmont into Great
Britain, in the course of last year, amounted to
not less than two hundred thousand pounds.
Piedmont and Bologna furnifh the very finelt
wrought silk in Europe. One grand advantage
which we have in the commerce of the Levant,
is, that the Sicilian silks are confined to a parti
cular season of the year, whereas those of the
Levant are brought at all times. The January
are Very richl y loaded with the very
. *l lks > those of February and March contain
an inferior fort. The Dutch, in the course of
lalt year, imported seven thousand bales of silk
from Caflembazzar in the East-Indies. This place
furnifhed, in the whole, that year, upwards of
twenty thousand bales ; each bale weighed one
hundred pounds. The French, in the fame year,
imported into Lyons fix thousand bales of silk
iixteen hundred of which came from Sicily. '
MK. SECKAR,
During the time of hu retirement, wrote a very excellent
work on the importance of religious opinions, calculated to
Item the torrent of infidelity which so generally prev,,ls u, Eu
rope. "It appears to me, " fays he in the introdudf on, •• that
there are interests which may be confidercd as patriotic by intel
ligent and feeling beings; and while the inhabitants of the fame
country, and the fuhjefi, of the fame prince, employ themselves
diligently in one common plan of defcncc, the ritizens of the
worM ought to be incessantly anxious to give every new and puHi
ble support to those exalted opinions on which tlj- true gieatnefs
of their exiffence is founded ; which preserves the imagination
irorn that frightful fpeftacle of an existence without origin, of ac
tlon without liberty, and futurity without hope. Thus alter hav
ing, as I think, proved myfclf a citizen of Jra/ice by my aehni
mftration, ai well as my writings, I wish to unite my'fclf to a fra
ternity still more extended, that of the whole human race; it is
thus, without dispersing our sentiments, we maybe able, ne\c'rthe-
Jess, to communicate ourselves a great way off, and enlarge, in
some mealure, the limits of our circle; glory be to our Junking
faculties for it! to that spiritual portion of ourselves which can
take in the pall, dart into futurity and intimately allbciate itfclf
with thedeftiny of men of allcountries, and of all ages. Without
doubt a veil is thrown over the greater part of those truths to
which our cunofity would willingly attain; but those which a be.
nificent God has permitted us to lee, are amply fufEcient lor our
£tnde and iiiffruftion; and we cannot for a continuance divert our
attention without a fpecn-s of flothful negligence, and a total indif
ference to superior interefls of man. How little is everv thing in
deed when put in competition with those meditations which give
to our existence a new extent,and which in detaching us from the
dull of the earth, fcem to unite our fouls to an infinity of space. and
our duration of a day to thecternity ot tune! Above all it is lor you
to determine, who have sensibility, who feel the want of a Su
preme Being, and who seek to find in Him that support so necessary
to your weakness; that defender,and that aflurance, withoutwhich
painful inquietude will be perpetually tormenting you, and trou
bling those foft tender affeaions which constitute your happi
ness. The whole of this cxcelleat work dcfctve, a veiy attentive
perusal.
[London-Derby, March 17.] It is with the fmcerefl plea
sure we intorm the public, and especially the citizens of Derry
that in confluence of the laudable exertions of the corporation
to forward the ereaion of a bridge over the river Foyle, Mr'
Thompson and Mr. Cox, of Boston, in New-England, arrived in
tlus city They are Itrongly recommended for their
knowledge in bridge building: and, we underltand that they en
tertain not the fmallcft doubt of being able to cocftrucf a bridge
over our river, upon the fame plan of those which they lately
crcfted near Boston. *
The corporation and citizens of Derry have now an opportunity
of accompiifhing a mealure of the greatel! public utility. Every
exertion ftjould, therefor, be used to arrange matters'for begin
ning a bulinefs, which promises to encreafe the trade and profpe.
rity of the city of Derry, and the adjacent conntry.
March 24. Since our last the engineers who lately arrived here
from America, have founded the river across at the Ferry-quay,
and we have authority in faying, that it is their decided opinion,'
a wooden bridge, on the confti uaion of those lately erected near
Bolton, is very pi a&icable at said place.
The tate KING of PRUSSIA'S Character of GEORGE 11.
GEORGE was firm in his purposes, more covetous than eco
nomical, capable of labour, but dcftitute of patience, violent,
brave, and governing England by the interest of his ele&oratc,
yet too little mailer of himfelf to direst a nation whose idoi is li
berty.
Character of the KING of PORTUGAL, by the fame»
THIS country, in the year 1740, made no figure in Europe.
Don Juan was remarkable only lor his extraordinary paflion for the
cercmonies of the Church. By the Pope's brief, he obtained the
right of having a Patriarch, and by a lecond brief, that of faying
mass. Ec cle fistic a 1 fun&ions formed his whole delight; hit
buildings were convents, his soldiers monks, and his miitrello
nuns.
The char after of CZAR PETER, avdof the RLSSI ANNtS t is defcribea
ms forcible in fewer words.
" THE Czar operated 011 the Kullians like aqua fortison iron."
The political rank of HOLLAND is also painted hy a finglefiroke.
AFTER. England comes Holland, which takes its direflion
from the former, like a iznall lhallop from a ihip of war to which
it is attached."
His Prussian Majcjly ikus charaflerfs the POLES.
POLAND is in a liate of perpetual anarchy. The great fa
milies have all of them (eparate interelts,and all preferring them
selves to their country, they agree only in feveritv towards theii
vafials, whom they treat more like beasts than human creatures.
The Poles arc vain, insolent in good fortune, servile in adverfny;
thjy stick at nothingto a mass money, which having obtained un
jultly, they spend it prodigally ; as fickle in their judgments aj
frivolous in their taiies, then meafuies are adopted capriciously,
and abandoned without reason. The unfteadinels of their cha
rattcis is continually pmnging them into difficulties. They have
laws ; but no one observes them, for want of coercive authority."
The KING'S character of HIMSELF, in a letter to Voltaire, 1737.
MY dear Cefanon has given too advantageous an account of me.
How fortunate it is to have such a friend ! But alloy me to unde
ceive you, and to trace my own chara£ler in a few words. I hav<
but little merit and little knowledge, but I have an extraordina
ry love for both, and an inexhaustible fund of esteem for per.
sons of diftinguifhcd virtue. Together with these qualities, ]
feel myfelf capable of all that conltancy which true friend (hit
requires ; with judgment fufficient to do justice to your great ta.
Jents, but not enough to hinder me from writing bad verles."
AMERICA.
Maryland.
Extra# cf a letters torn 1 gentleman in Old.Ttfwn, to his friend here,
dated May 6.
[Frederick-Town, March 20.] " It pleases me much to
hod the Patowmack navigation-info flourifhmg a Hate. I arri
vtd here, on my way to ihe western country. This place put!
me very much in mind of a sea-port, so many sailors, or rather
boatmen, in their (hort jackets and caps, walking the streets, and
the maltr is running up and down, difpoling of their cargoes of
rum, wine, &c. and pureha&ng wheat and bacon to take down
»gain. Since the navigation o» the Patowmack is so far advanced
we have great reason to hope the work will be fully completed'
and th«n the country about the head of Patowmack will flourifh
amazingly."
Extract cj a Utter from Berlin, a town on the Patoumad River, on the
Maryland trait, dated May 21.
May 27. "A few days ago pailrd by this town, five boats,
from Opequan, the South-Branch, and Old-Town, together with
a large raft of pine plank, which floated from abov? 100 miles
back with several horses on it.—One ot the boats belonging to
u J P r P'.'BB' of Old-Town, came from that place with 21
hog (heads of tobacco to Watt's Branch, near the Great-Falls, 111
one day and an half, reckoned to be 180 miles."
[Baltimore, June 2.3 Last Saturday morning, (at a Villa
fr„m C r V ' C T y °' th ! Stown : M n r - J ohn Dublain, a gentleman
from Cape Francois, being in a state of infamty, put a pe.fod to
his exiflence, by Ihuotmg himfelf through the head with a muf
[Philadelfhia, June to.] The wonderful exertions of
this country in (Economy and industry affoid the mod heartfelt
latisfaUion to the patriots in every situation : Men in public ftati
ons in almoftevery State are cloathing ihemfelves in the manufac
turesot the country-thc old branches aredaily improving—new
ones mtioduced—and domejlu manufactures extending bevoud
any thing ever Known heretofore. This f.lent prog,eh of induf
ry in this latter way has been evidenced by the wonderful f 4 le<
of jpinmng uheel iron, in ihisciiy, which in the year last past in
twoftorc, or.lv, have amounted to 5860 sets. It is with high
pleafurt we add, that a great number of wheels have been (hip
ped in the coaiters to the (hores of the Chefapeak.
It is supposed that the great rednftionin the prime cost of cot
ton goous in Europe is owing to the infant eftabliflrmeuts in that
ine m this country, A-hich the European manufacturers naturally
(V / u> dlkoura g<-- If they will maintain a fair rival
ex'euions Cl " notblamc thcin > let it spur us to due
Laftweek John Lucas, Esq. of Boston, fubferibed Hve (hares
to inl this city, -and the 1. giflature of the State
have fubicribed one hundred (hares. The principal objects of
attention have been cottons dyed and printed, fuftians, jeans, de
rnrns,couonades waistcoat patterns and fcederal ribs, all of which
have a cotton filling and flaxen warp.
The mar.ufactory of Taylors threads has been attempted here
and executed with great perfection by three very valuable citi^
machrnes. y ' ICndj " The ' r operations are principally by
We hear that five additional paper-mills are now erecting in
this State, and that the company of paper hanging pnriteis from
Francehave commenced their establishment near this city.
INFORMATION FOR WEAVERS.
<irdl" '™P™ vcm<-m ° n 'he weavers (huttle has lately been made in
Scbtland. tour friction wheels, somewhat thicker than a dollar
are infeited in it so far, as iuft to enable the {hurtle r
the projecting parts with great ease and velocity. The
wheels is made ot wood, and the wheel, of U steel T w„ „ t
Many things (fays a correspondent) formerly fuooofed k
p&rssx&te&igsz, *«Fr
pie to the (landard of truth a H P refer 'ng jatner to raise the peo
furd notions of anv uartofiK tha " to stoop ,0 the''.b-
Chief lylagiftrates
wc ada rets them, than with a high founding tklc.
w.th Highness, Excellency,'Efquire, and Honorable,in .ts pofrT?
romparat.ve, and fuperlat.ve degrees, and let our rulers
when they fee them, fuppoie ihat they are only intended to aifr o «
Ixtraß of a Utter from a person <f experience and judgment intkebUi,
<><><* f'tthng f >■«" country, dated the i s ti of Apr,l, at dJ~,
i on Lake Orjcgo. '
"I think it would be advifeable to take effeflual Heps toward,
ereft;ng pot-ash works in your neighbourhood, (on the
Pennsylvania, near the state line and New-York government,
only tor your own advantag,, but that of the fetllers. The Deem,
here act. for clearing our heaviest timbtr'd lands, four poual
acre, and find theralelves—or to have the alhes forthelr pay L
tlioie who live convenient to pot-alh workschoofe to pavne a Sn
price, rather than give up the aihes. So that ,t is reduced Z I
country'"' aIV ' w '" lor cI «" D S any sand ta 7i^
In order to (hew the extreme danger of trusting all the leirilk.
live power of a State to a fmgle rcprefenlation, we be? leavt ■„
tiMfcnbe a few f litencts from a letter, writteu by the Honorable
John Adams, Esq. Vice-Pietident ot the United States, to 0 a?
ot his friends in North-Carolina, who requeued him to far,„
him with a plan of government for that State, in the year i-fi'
I his ll uftriom citizen, who is lecond to no man in America jt
an inflexible attachment to the liberties of this country, aojto
republican forms of government, writes ajfollow :
" I think a people cannotbe long free, norever happy wh*/ettuni
ment ts in one ALembly. My reafjns for this opinion areasJol.oui
,'• " //'"a 1 ' Ajfcmbly is liable to all the n.es, follies and friilia
of an individual,fubjid to ft, of humour: Start* ofpafhns,- flub,
of entnunafm : partialities of prejudice, and confeauently pruuditc ,(
t.afly refu!t> andabf.udjutL mints. All these 'errors ««•/,( tebecmij.
id, and defeclsfupphed by fume controuling pouer.
2. '• A finale Afjcmbly is apt to be avaricious, and in tinu anil m
It ruple to exempt itjelf from hut dens, which it v,U lay, uithnt lib.
pundion, upon its conjttturnts.
3. A jingle AJembly is apt to grow ambitious, and after at,,„
will not htjltate to vote itfilf perpetual This Ms one fault of the /«,
parliamentbut more remarkably of Holland, whose Ajfemtly ir fl v Jd
themf Ives from annual to fcptenmal, itunfor lile, and after am,H
iJ'fi'" f** r vacanaes happening by death, or other wife, fhtuU ie
pi eapy themselves, without any application to conjlituenfs at all.
4. " Becaitfe a Jingle AJfembly pojfejjed of all the pvicers of goien*
ment mould mute arbitrary laws for their own interefl, and adiud/t all
contmerfies in their own favor." ' 0
If any thing could be ueceiTary upon this fuhjeft, after fudi m
authority, we might here add,' that Montesquieu, Harrington,
Milton, Addifon, Price, Bolingbroke, and others, the wild
lUtelmen, and the greatest friends to liberty in the world, but
lett tcilimonies upon record of the extreme folly and danger of a
people being governed by a single legiftature. "
* A Committee of the Convention, which formed the ConJlitutm,[
Pennsylvania, pubhfhed in the I'ennflvania Packet of OSober it, 1776,
as an apology for one of their Ordinances that was tnought to be ailurs
ry and unjujt, that it was pas/ed " when the minds of the Cenvatu*
were agitated, and their passions inflamed."
SKETCH of PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of tht
UNITED STATES.
Wednisday, June 10, 1789.
In committee of the whole, on the bill to regulate the collec
tion of the impost. b
Mr.TiuMßVit in the chair.
On motion of Mr. Madison, a clause was inserted, whicb
provides, " that there shall be a surveyor at each of the ports of
tk ry c *«pting certain ports to be enumerated.
motion of Mr. Ames, which was withdrawn yesterday,
* again brought forwajd by that Gentleman—and adopted as a
claule, to be inserted id the bill—lt provides, That every maftrr
or ot.er perion, having charge or command of a ship or veffel
bound to any port of the United States, shall be obliged to po
lice, on uemand, to any officer, or per Ton authorised for the
purpo e, two manfclls, fpecilying in words, the true contents ot
rl C c^.& oon oar< i such Ihip or vessel; one of which manifffti
ie o cer is to endorse, and return to the Captain,noting the time
the fame was produced to him. The other he is to trans
mit to the naval officer of the port where the said vessel is bound to.
several other propositions were produced, and debated; but
not accepted.
The committee then rose, and the Houfc adjourned.
Thursday, Junk u.
in committee of the whole, on the bill to regulate the collcc-
Lion of the impost. 5
M r - Trumbull in the chair.
r. rARkIn moved to insert the following clanfe in the bill,
viz. rovided that no ship or vessel, not belonging wholly to
a citizen or citizens of the United States, shall be permitted to e»-
U "i r3t ot^lcr » than the following ports, viz.
is clause, the Gentleman observed, was necelTary to hold up
a preference to our own navigation—to secure to the citizens of
/r» tal ?, S exc j. u f lv ely, thecoafting trade ;it would conduce more
?e,ua y[P ecu ring the revenue, and was a provilion fandioncd
} the practice of other commercial countries.
oeveral other observations were made, when Mr. Fitzsimo.ns
£, ro |?° 1 clause ihould be amended by adding—" nor
r 3 ° r f rom India, China, or beyond the Cape of
o° and bound to the United States, enter, or unlade,
but at the following ports, viz.
This clause, with the amendment, occasioned confiderabledif-
u U 'A° n °ppofition to the firft, it was observed, that the re*
n ion could not with propriety be confined to foreign vefffls,
on account of smuggling, as our own citizens, poffefling fupericr
vantages for that business, would more probably evade the
fSTY V 3O ran S crs : That it would operate altogether in favour of
i d I w "0 employed no foreign (hipping; and as
2 A nC t0 cncoura g c our navigation, it was to be ex
pected that the motion would be withdrawn.—With refpeft to
cne clause rcftndmgveffels from India, it was said, that it would
cn to the creating monopolies— to give an undue advantage to
particular posts, to thei aggrandizement and that of individuals
rending i n or near such ports, while it would deprive those who
!" C 3 from them, and whose capitals were limited,
noma venturing in those voyages, as was now the cafe.
"1 lnpport of the clause, it was observed, That foreigners could
wit propriety be reftrifted from entering those ports, which they
. a accuflomed to frequent— and for this reason 110 in
jury wonld be done to the persons refidino- at such places —but to
K'A Cr r OUr own navigation within narrower limits than it
ecn used to, would be produ6tive of extensive ill conff
quence—it will cut off a great proportion of the trade of the
i> - Mates, and in a manner depopulate the sea coast : Thatex
per-ence ot ©ther countries was in favour of reftrifting foreigners
n..i rower limits than our own citizens; they could not be fup
p *- to be actuated by'any motives of attachment to the govern-
Vvf vf Co s in * r y> to induce a compliance with the revenue laws.
frr>r^ lL f to the reftriftion on India lhips, it was said, That
other > t 3t COUDtr y "were more easily smuggled than any
, ls re^r '^' on wa s of the last importance to the re-
Dofttk 35 ° n f - oat load of lndi£ would pav a greater im
p it than a who e cargo from the Weft-Indies: That it would be
po i tic tQ Juffer this uade to be carried on from ports favorably. f m nf>rlin"; and '' iat ■' been found neceftary to
fcttr'ft B»"' h n<l ' aD m ' pS t0 thC POrt ° f London ' to P revem
frauds U P®? were m3de—when the question onthe
jmcndment propofcd by Mr. Fitisimons being tafeen, it palled
'"rIKWt" being then taken on the whole, it patted also in the
a8 The Mr'ts to be eftablithed by this claufc are not yet named.
Further progress was made 111 the bill, and fcveral amcnd
° ThVcommittee then rose, and the House adjourned,
Friday, June 12-
The House formed into a committee of the whole, on the bill
ulatethe coJleftion of the import oil goods, wares, and mer
chandize imported into the United States.
u Mr. Trumau l l in the chair.
Considerable progress was made in the bill this day, by pafling
of the claufcs, chief of them with amendments—The com
was proceeding in the difcuflion, when a meflage from the
Senate was announced —The Secretary then appeared on the floor
f the House, and informed, that he had it in command from the
S ,ate to inform the honorable House, that they had concurred
«ith amendments, in the bill for laying an import on goods,
wares and merchandize, impojted into the United States—and
hoped'for the concurrence of the honorable House in those amend,
meots—He then delivered in the bill, with a draft of the amend
ments, and withdrew. —These amendments were read to the
House-—and then the Chairman of the Committee having resumed
his place, further progress was made in difcufling the bill.
At three o'clock the committee rose, and the House adjourned
till to-morrow.
fie following are the Amendments to the New Con
ftitutiou, prvpefed by the Hon. Mr. Maddifon—
as mentioned in our laji—viz.
Rf.solvid, That the following amendments ought to be pro
filed by Congress, to the legislatures of the States, to become, if
ratified by three fourths thereof, part of the Conflitution of the
United States.
First. That there be prefixed to the Conflitution a declaration—
That all pewer is originally veiled in, and consequently derived
from the people.
That government is inflituted, and ought to be exercised for
the benefit of the people ; which consists in the enjoyment of life
and liberty, with the right of acquiring and using property, and
generally of pursuing and obtaining happiness and fafety.
That the people have an indubitable, unalienable, and indefea
fible right to reform or change their government, whenever it be
found adverse or inadequate to the purposes of its institution.
Secondly. That in article 1 ft, feaion 2, clause 3, these words
beftruckout, to wit, " The number of representatives shall not
41 exceed one for every thirty thousand, but each State (hall have at
44 lcaft one representative, and until such enumeration (hall be
44 made," And that in place thereof be inserted these words, to
wit, " After the firft attual enumeration, there (hall be one re
-44 prefentative for every thirty thousand, until the number shall
44 amount to after which the proportion shall be so regula
-44 ted by Congress, that thenumber shall never be less than
4< nor more than but each State shall after the firft enumera
-11 fion, have at least two representatives ; and prior thereto"
Thirdly. That in article lft, fe&ion 6, clause 1, there be added
to the end of the firit sentence, these words, to wit:— 44 But no
44 law varying the compensation last ascertained shall operate be
-4' fore the next ensuing ele&ion of representatives."
Fourthly. That in article lft, fettion 9, between clauses 3 and 4,
be itofertcd these clauses, to wit: The civil rights of none shall be
abridged on account of religious belief or worship, nor shall any
national religion Le eftablilhed, nor shall the full and equal rights
of conscience be in any manner, or on any pretext infringe^.
The people (hall not be deprived or abridged of the right to
speak, to write, or to publish theii sentiments ; and the freedom
of theprefi, as one of the great bulwarks of liberty, ihall be in
violable.
The people shall not bd restrained from peaceably assembling
and consulting for their common good ; nor from applying to the
legislature by petitions, or remonflranccs for redress of their
grievances.
The right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be in
fringed ; a well armed, and well regulated militia being the best
fecunty of a free country : but no person religiously scrupulous of
bearing arms, shall be obliged to render military fervicei n person.
No soldier shall in time of peace be quartered in any house,
without consent of the owner ; nor at any time, but in a manner
warranted by law.
No person shall be fubjeft, except in cases of impeachment, to
more than one pun'fhment, or one trial for the fame offence ; not
Ihall be compelled to be a witness againfl himfclt; nor be depri
ved of life, liberty, or property without due prucefs of law ;
nor be obliged to relinquish his property, where it may be neces
sary for use, without a jufl compensation.
ExcefTive bail shall not be required, nor eXcessive fines impoied,
nor cruel and unusual punishments infli£led.
The rights of the people to be secured in their persons, their
honfrs, their papers, and their other property from all unreason
able searches and seizures, shall not be violated by warrants issued
without probable caule, supported by oath or affirmation or not
particularly describing the places to be fearch«d, or the persons or
things to be lei zed.
In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right
to a fpecdy and public trial, to be informed of the caafe and na
ture of the accusation, to be confronted with his acculers, and
the witnefTfs against him ; to have a compulfary process for ob
taining witnefTes in his favor ; and to have the afliftance of coun
sel for his defence.
The exceptions here or elsewhere in the Conflitution, made in
favor of particular rights, shall not be so construed as to diminish
thejuft importance of other rights retained by the people ;or as
enlarge the powers delegated by the Conflitution ; but either
as limitations offoch powers, or as infertedmerely for greater
caution.
fifthly. That in article ift, fettion 10, between clauses 1 and 2,
be inserted this clause, to wit:
No State shall violate the equal rights of conscience, or the free
dom of the press, or the trial by jury in criminal cases.
Sixthly. That in article 3d, feflion 2, be annexed to the end
0 clauie 2d, these words, to wit : but no appeal to such court
will be allowed where the value in controversy lhall not amount
® dollars: nor shall any fatt triable by jury, according to
e courfe of common law, be otherwise re-examinable than may
c °n ift with thr principles of common law.
tventhly. That in article 3d, feftion 2. the third clause be
° Ut ' 3nC * ln be inlerted the clauses following.
ne trial of all crimes (except in cases of impeachment, and
CS . a^ ln .S 'n 'he land or naval forces, or the militia when on
ua service in time of war or public danger,) shall be by an im
partial jury of freeholders of the vicinage, with the requisite of
ammity forconviftion, of the right of challenge, and other
cu omed requisites ; and in all crimes punishable with loss ol
h° r p em ! )Cl ' P re sentment or indi&ment by a grand jury, shall
v!' P relin »nary, provided that in cases of crimes com
c wuhin any county which may be in poffeflion of anene
bv 1 ° r >> n general infurreflion may prevail, the trial may
nJ, 3VV C 2ul horifed in fomc other county of the fame State, as
l„ as ? a y l . &t he feat of the offc nee.
mav KCS r c " mes committed not within any c ounty, the trial
corn" nU i count y as * aws have prescribed. In suits
n on law between man and man, the trial by jury as one
of the best fecuritics to the rights of the people, ought to remain
inviolate. °
Eighthly. That immediately after article 6th, be inserted, as ar
ticle 7th. the clauses following to wit :
The powers delegated by this Constitution, and appropriate d to
the departments to which they are refpe&ively dillributed : So
that the legislative department (hall never exercise the powers
veiled in the executive or judicial; nor the executive exercise the
powers vetted in the legislative or judicial ; nor the judicial exer
cise the powers veiled in the legislative or executive departments.
The powers not delegated by this Constitution, nor prohibited
by it to the States, are reserved to the States, refpe&ively.
Ninthly That article 7th, be numbered as article Bth.
NEW-YORK, JUNE 13, 178^
Extract of a letter from Virginia, dated 'June i, 1789.
<c I never supposed Congress would hurry over the obje&s com
mitted to their deliberations. They are too important to beadled
upon without being di feu fled; aud they arc too numerous and
intricate to be difcufled in a moment. But when I make theft
remarks, I do not mean to insinuate that it is not poiliblc Con
gress may not in some instances attend too minutely to the detai
of business. I know that the habit of difcuflion, like al other ha
bits, has an imperceptible effe£l, and that men fall into thefnare
before they think of it. Those who discuss a great deal upon im
portant fubje&s forget to drop a temper of difcuflion when they
are upon points less interesting. You ask me if the patience ol
people this way is notexhaufted, that so much time has elapsed,
and so little business accompliflied ?—I am happy to a flu re you,
that people do not yet complain, as they are disposed to make
allowances for the difficulties that attend the firft organization ol
the government. Rut how long this patience will continue is un
certain. Impatience is a weakness to which the mind of man i
extremely liable; and it may, 110 doubt, be discovered in this
as in many other instances where it ought not to be."
" Were mankind but as innocent y as blind, they
would in their fondnels lor fafhionable follies,
luxuries, and extravagancies, compleatly re
semble the lamb described by the poet:
The lamb thy riot dooms to bleed to day,
Had he thyreafon, would he skip and play ?
Pleas'd to the last, he crops the flowery food j
And licks the hand that's rais'd to flied his blood.
The cure of evils that have taken deep root in
a community requires time, patience, and reso
lution.—Complaints are unavailing—and perhaps
in no country is it more difficult to fele<3: proper
fubjetfls, on which a general odium can be fixed
with propriety, than in America: Every man
woidd therefore do well to lay his hand on his
heart, and fay, " is it I"—for a general refor
mation, and universal liappinefi, mull begin with
INDIVIDUALS.
While we are obliged to delve and toil to make
remittances to the merchants of Britain for ma
nufactures, many of which we pay for, at jo per
cent, more than we could furnilh them from among
ourselves, we are but a little removed from a
state of tributary slavery.
The young Gentlemen under the care of Mr. Hardie, will be
examined on the Greek and Latin languages, on Tuesday next,
in hisfchool-ioom, near the Baptist Church, in Gold-Street. The
examination will begin at 10 o'clock, forenoon,and at 4, afternoon,
when their parents and guardians, and the friends of literature
are eafnellly requested io attend.
THEATRICALS. 7ohn-Street.
Last night the School for Soldiers, an elegant, tender, sentimental,
ind well conduced Dramatic Entertainment, written by a citizen
of the United States, was performed, amidst repeated buifts of ap
plause, to a crowded house. The principal characters were ex
tremely well supported by Meflri Henry, Hallam, and Harper—
while Mrs. Henry and Mrs. Harper, added greatly to the inter
cft of the a£tion, and often difTolved the audience in tears. A more
profound attention was never known to be given to any piece
through the whole performance; A circumstance, which indica
ted the real interest which the galtery took in the fate of the De
fer ter< ought not to be omitted : as soon as the soldiers on the
ftaae demonstrated their joy, by huzzaing, for the pardon which
was announced to have beert obtained from the late Commander
in Chief for the Defcrter, the audience in the gallery spontaneously
gave the fame proof of sensibility and *atisfa£Uon.
In the Farce of Who's the Dupe, Mr, Morris distinguished him
felf—and the whole performance wasunufuallycorre£l and spirited.
LITERARY ARTICLE>
This Day is published, (Price of 6)
And to be fold by Berry by
Robert Hodge, Corner of King and Queen-Street, and by
the Editor hereof;
twentY-sijc <
LETTERS,
U.pon INTERESTING SUBJECTS,
respecting the REVOLUTION OK AMERICA.
Written in Holland in the Year M, DCC, LXXX.
By his excellency JOHN ADAMS,
WHILE HE WAS SOLE MINISTER HKKIIOTEN TIAR Y FROM
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
FOR NECOCIATING A PEACE, AND A TREATY OF COMMERCE*
WITH GREAT-BRITAIN.
Never before published.
ADVERTISEMENT.
Prefixed to the Letters.
DR. CALKOEN, an eminent Civilian at Amflerdam, to whom these
letters were written, composed, by the means of them, a comparison between
the revolt of the Low Countries from Spain, and the revolution of the
United States of America', in which he concluded, upon the whole, that
" as it was a kind of miracle that theformerfuceceded, it wouldbe a greater
"miracle JIM if the latter should not."—This ctrmpoftion was read by
him to afociety of gentlemen of Utters, about forty in number, who met
sometimes at Amjlerdam ; and by its means juJI fentim nts of American
affairs began tofprtad in that country, and to frei'ail over the continual
mfreprefentations of certain gazettes and emiJJaries—Th'e publications
of General Howe and Burgoyne, in vindication of themfe'.ves, were
procured to be translated intp French,andpropogated, together with many
other pamphlets, which affied in the fame design, and contributed to ex
cite the citizens Ho those applications, by petition to the regencies oj the
ftveral cities, which finally procured the acknowledgement of American
Indi tendency, the Treaty of Commerce, and a loan of Money.
y 1 . JOHN ADAMS.
The firft of these Letters contains a couciie atcount of American
Affairs before, during, and after the commencement of the la;e
war. Dr. CAi-Kotx'spropoJitions and enquiries are as follow.
1. " To prove, by striking fails, that an implacable hatred and
aversion reigns throughout America."
2. " To Ihew that this is general, at least so general, that the
tories arc in so small a number, and of such little force, that they
arc eountcd as nothing."
3* tl To (hew that America, notwit'nftanding the war* daily
incrcafes inftrength and force."
4. " Whether America, in and of itfelfj by means of pur
chasing or exchanging the productions of the several provinces*
would be able to continue the war for fix, eight, or teh years,
if they were ent inly deprived of thetradewith Europe; ortheir
allies, exhausted V.y the war, and forced to make a separate peace*
were to leave them ?"
5. " Whether a voluntary revolt of any orle or more of the
States in the American confederation is to be apprehended : And
it one or mote were to revolt, whether the others would not be
able to defend thetnfelves ?"
6. " That no person, in America* i$ of so tnuch influence*
power, or credit, that his death, or corruption by English money,
could be of any hameablc consequence."
7. " Whether the commoh picople in America are not inclined,
nor would be able, to find fufficient means to frUftrate, by force,
the good intentions of the (kilful politicians ?"
8. " What England properly ought to do, to force America to
fubmiflion, and preserve her in it ? How much time, mo.nevs
and how many velTels, would be wanted for that pur{>ofe ?"
9. " How strong the fcnglifb land force is in America? How
strong it was ai the beginning? And whether it increases or di
minifnes ?"
10. " How great is the force of America? The number of
men ? llieir dicipline, &c. from the commencement of the
trouble* ? Is there a good supply of warlike (lores ? Are these to be
found,partly or entirely in America ? Ormuftthey be imported?"
11. " How great is the present debt of America ? What has
(he occasion for yearly to a£l defenfively ? Are those wants sup
plied by the inhabitants themselves, or by other nations ? If in
the latter cafe, what does America lose of her strength by it ?
Are they not, in one manner or other, recompenfcd again by
sOme equivalent advantage ? If so* in what manner ? What would
be required to aftoffenfively, and by that means (hortenthe war?"
12. " What countenance have the finances ? How much does
the expense exceed the yearly income ? Does the annual revenue,
derived from the taxes, increase or diminish, in the whole, or in
any particulars ? And what arc the icafons to be given for it ?"
13. " Of what resources might America hereafter still make
use of ?"
i - " What is the quantity of paper money in circula
tion ? What credit the inhab'itanns have for it, in their business P
What designs the inhabitants have by maintaining its credit
What by preventing its increase ? And in what manner do they
realize it ?"
15. " Does not the English army lay out its pay in America ?
At how much can the yearly benefit be calculated ? Are not thg
prifoneri provided for in America ? Who has the care of their
maintenance ? How was Burgoyne's army supplied ?"
16. " Who loses most by delertion ? Do the English and Ger
man deserters fcrve voluntarily and well in the American army ?
How can those who do not enter into the army subsist ?"
17. " Whether We have any information that we can rely on,
concerning the population ? Has it increased or diminished, since
the war ?"
18. u Does fufficient tranquility, contentment, and profperi
tv, reign in those places where the war does not rage ? Can one
fufficiently subsist there without feeling the oppreflion of the tax-
PS ? Does plenty abound there? Is there more than is nceffirr
For consumption ? Are the people well afFetted and encouraged
the war, and endure its calamities ? Or is there pover
:y and deje&ion
19. 44 Is not peace Very much longed for irl America ? Might
not this desire of peace induce the people to hearken to proposals
ippearingvery fair, but which really are not so ; which the people
might be too quick in listening to, and the government forced to
iccept ?"
20. 4{ Have there not been different opinions in Congress, with
regard to this (i. e. to proposals appearing fair, which were not so)
From whence animosities havearifen?"
2t. " Are there no mal-contents in America, against the go
vernment, who are otherwise much inclined for the American
cause, who may force the nation, or congress* against their resolu
tions and intercfts, to conclude a peace ?"
22 —23 " General Monk repaired the King's government in
England : Might not one American General or another be able,
by discontent or corruptiori, to do the fame ? Would the army
follow his orders on such an occasion ? Coiild one or more politi
cians, through intrigues, undertake the fame with any hopes of
success, (hould even the army aflift him in such a cafe ?"—244
li The revolution must have made a great change in affairs, so
that many people, though at present Iree of the enemy's incursi
ons, have loft their daily subsistence. Have the accupations,
which come instead of their old ones, been fufficient to supply
wants ?
25, — 44 Dothey who have loft theit pcflcflions and fortunes by
the war, endure it patiently, as compatriots, so that nothing can
be feared from them?"— 26. I( How has it gone with the cultiva
tion of the lai\d, before the troubles, at the commencement, and
at present? Whit change has taken place ?"
27.— 41 How Vrus the situation of manufactures, manual arts
and trade in general, at the beginning of this war? What change
have they fuffered ?
28; " Has America gained, or loft, by the mutual capture of
(hips ? How much is the benefit, or prejudice, of >t,by calculation ?"
29. 44 What are the real darfiages sustained, or still to be fuffer
ed, by the loss of Charleston? And what influence it has had
upon the minds of the people ?*'
■ ■■■*'■ ■*» ■ in ■ ; -
To PACIFICUS.
IF I have appeared at any time to favour any particular feft, or
religious tenets, it is, probably, for the lame reason that you ap
pear an advocate for some other; betaufc each thinks himfclf
right—which may be true, if it be admitted that " as a manlhinks,
"so is he." But as in a publication, in the "Gazette of the
44 United States," No. V. " on religious toleration," I hive ad
mitted the poffibilrty of doubt, in all cases not mathematically
demonstrable, it cannot be rationally fupjpofed, that I (hould I<>
soon after conclude, that every man was in an error who should
differ from me in opinions notoriously problematical;—l will,
therefore, prefutfne, that the inferences wT.ich you have drawn
from the publication to which you refer, do by no means neccf
farily follow : —But no consideration should induce rfie to engage
in religious difput s ; betaufe they have been rarely found, as ap
pears from history, and the experience of ages, to tend to the con
viction of either paity; but on the Contrary) have only ferveu, in
general, to irritate, to inflame, and to fivet prejudices, which
never fail to warp the judgement, mi (lead the unwary, and fre
quently to produce those evils, which maugre your suspicions—
no man can hold in greater abhorrence than I do.—Persecution o£
every species, difqualification, ot even discrimination for differ
ence of opinion in religions matters, appear to me in every view
totally repugnant to the great purposes of religion, as well as to
justice, reason, and good policy; and would probably soon evince
to America, that*fhe had spent her blood and treafurc to no good
purpose :—But while yoii appear to be jealous, and tenacious of
your particular tenets, permit me to urge a doe and decent re
gard to th»fc which I may poflibly thirtkof equal importance, and
deserving equal reverence and respeCt from those who profefs the
fame opinion ; but, at the fame time, I hope never to fee those*
or any other rtligious opinions, supported, defended, or incul
cated, but with a spirit of meekness, and by a conduCt perfectly
consistent with the genuine principles of toleration; wfttt the
most liberal candor, unbounded charity, univcrfal philanthropy,
and every moral virtue. E. O.
In the (ketch of Mr. Madison's Speech ia our last, in 26tia
line from top of middle column 3d page, for 44 out of the power
of the Legislature to infringe" readout of the power of the State
kegiflaturcs to infringe, &c.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
[Continued from our laj7.]
AT the critical moment, when the Gauls had
approached the capital with such silence as not to
awaken the centinels, or even the dogs, M. Man
-1 ius, who had been consul three years before, was
awakened by the cry of the getfe, which, by the
ianctity of their consecration to Juno, had escaped
with ther lives in an extreme Icarcity of provi
lions. lie hastened to the wall, and beat down
one of the enemy, who had already laid hold ot
the battlement, and whole fall from the prccipicc
carried down several others who followed him.
With stones and darts the Romans precipitated
all the reft to the bottom of the rock. Manlius
the next day received in a public aflembly his
praises and rewards. Officers and foldjeis, to
teftify their gratitude, gave him their rations for
one day, both in corn and wine, half a pound of
corn and a quarter of a pint of •wine. " Ingens
" caritatis argutnentam,cumfe vitftu luofraudans,
" detraiflum corpori & ufibus neeeflariis ad hono
" rem unis viri conferre," lays Livy ; and in the
year of Romt 365, the commonwealth gave to
Manlius an house upon the capital, as a monu
ment of his valour and his country's gratitude.
In the year of Rome 370, fifty-five years after
the execution of Melius, and five years after the
defence of the capital from the attack of Brennus,
Manlius is fufpetfted of ambition. Those who had
hitherto excited, or been excited by, the people
to faction, had been plebeians. Manlius was a
patrician of one of the most illuflrious families :
Ke had been consul, and acquired immortal glory
by his military exploits, and by laving the capital;
lie was, in lliort, the rival of Camillus, who had
obtained two signal victories over the Gauls, and
from the new birth of the city had been always
in office, cither as dictator or military tribune ;
and even, when he was only tribune, his col
leagues considered him as their superior, and held
it an honor to receive his orders as their chief.
In lliort, by his own reputation, the support ol
the Quintian family, and the enthuliaftic attach
ment to him, he had inspired. into the nation, he
■was, in fad; and effedt, to all intents and purposes,
King in Rome, without the name, but under the
various titles of consul, ditftator, or military tri
bune. "He treats," said Manlius, " even those
" created with powers equal to Lis own, not as
" his colleagues, but officers and substitutes, to
" execute his orders." The ariftocratical Livy,
and all the other ariftocrates of Rome, accuse
Manlius of envy. They fay he could not bear
such glory in a man whom he believed no worthier
than liinifelf: He despised all the reft of the no
bility : The virtues, lervices, and honors of Ca
tnillus,alone excited his haughtiness and felf-luffi
ciency, and tortured his jealousy and pride : He
•was enraged to fee liim always at the head of af
fairs, and commanding armies. It is certain that
this pracftice of continuing Camillus always at the
head was inconsistent with the spirit of the con
ftitution,by which a rotation was eltablifhed, and
the consuls who had the command of armies could
remain in office but one year. But this is the na
ture of an ariftocratical aflembly as well as of a
democratical one: Some eminent spirit, alfifted
by three or four families connected with him,
gains an afcenclency, and excites an enthusiasm,
and then the spirit and letter too of the constitu
tion is made to give way to him. In the cafe be
fore 11s, when Camillus could not be consul, he
mult be military tribune ; and when he could not
be military tribune, he mult be dictator.
Manlius is charged with envy, and with vain
speeches. " Camillus could not have recovered
" Rome from the Garb if I had not laved the ca
" pitni and citadel." This was literally true;
but ariftocratical historians must brand the cha
racter of Manlius, in order to depress the people,
and extol and adoie that of Camillus, in order to
elevate the senate and, the nobles. But there js
no fo'id reason to believe thai Manlius envied
Camillus, more than Camillus and the Quintian
family were both envious and jealous of Manlius.
The house upon the capital was what the Quin
tian family could not bear.
The truth is, an ariftocratical despotism then
in Rome, and opprefied the people to a cruel
degree ; and one is tempted to fay, that Manlius
was a better man than Camillus or Cincinnatus,
though not so secret, designing, and profound a
politician, let the torrent of ariftocratical hiltory
and philofopliy roll as it will. There were two
parties, one of the nobles, and another of the peo
pie: Manlius, from superior humanity and equi
ty, embraced the weaker ; Camillus and the Quin
tii, from family pride, like that ofLycuigus, do
mineered over the llronger party, of which they
were in full polieffion. Manlius threw hiuifelf
hito the scale of the people ; he entered into close
intimacy and fti i<st union with tire tribunes ; he
spoke contcmptuouflyof the senate, and llattered
the multitude. " Jam aura, non confillio ferri,
" famscque magns malic quam bon2s efle," fays
the ariftocrate Livy. But let us examine his ac
tions, net receive implicitly the epithets of par-
tial liiftorians. —The Roman laws allowed exoi
bitant interest for the loan ot money : An insol
vent debtor, by the decree of the Judge, was put
into the hands ot his creditor as a ilave, and
might be scourged, pinched, or put to death, at
diicretion : The moit execrable arillocratical la'w
that ever exilled among men ; a law lb diabolical,
that an attempt to get rid ot it at almoftany rate
was a virtue. The city had been burnt, and every
man obliged to rebuild his lioufe. Not only the
poorefl citizen, but persons in middle lite, had
been obliged to contra<sl debts. Manlius, leeing
the rigour with which debts were exacted, felt
more commiseration than his peers for the peo
ple. Seeing a centurion, who had dillinguillied
himfclf by a great number of gallant adtions in
the field, adjudged as a (lave to his creditor, his
indignation as well as his compaflion were aroused;
he inveighed against the pride of the patricians,
cruelty of the usurers, deplored the mif'cry ot the
people, and expatiated on the merit of his brave
companion in war ; —furely no public oration was
ever better founded: lie paid the centurion's
debt, andfet him at liberty, with much oltenta
tion to be sure, and strong exprellions of vanity ;
but this was allowable by the cullom and manners
of the age. The centuriontoo displayed his own
merit and services, as well as his gratitude to his
deliverer. Manlius went further ; he caused the
principal part of his own patrimony to be fold,
"in order, Romans," said he, " that I may not
" fufler any of you, whilst I have any thing left,
" to be adjudged to your creditors, and made
"Haves." This, no doubt, made him very po
pular : But, in the warmth of his dernocratical
zeal, he had been transported upon fomeoccafion
to fay in his own house, that the Senators had con
cealed, or appropriated to their own life, the gold
intended for the ranfoin of the city from the
Gauls ; alluding, probably, to the fadt, for that
gold had been deposited under the pedestal ol
J upiter's statue. Manlius perhaps thought thai
this gold would be better employed to pay the
debts of the people. The senate recalled the dic
tator, who repaired to the forum, attendedjby all
the senators, ascended h's tribunal, and ordered
his lienor to cire Manlius before him. Manlius
advanced with the people; on one fide was the
senate with their clients, and Cainillus at theii
head; and on the other the people, headed b}
Manlius ; and each party ready for battle at the
word of command. And such a war will, l'oonei
or later, be kindled in every state, where the twe
parties of poor and rich, patricians and plebeians,
nobles and commons, senate and people, call their
by what names you will, have not a third powei
in an independent executive, to intervene, mode
rate, and balance them. The artful diiflator in
terrogated Manlius only on the story of the gold
Manlius was embarrafled j for the fuperflition o:
the people Would have approved of the apparem
piety of the senate in dedicating that treasure tc
Jupiter, though it was probably only policy tc
ftide it. He evaded the queltion, and descanted
011 the rrtifice of the senate, in making a w&r the
pretext for creating a dictator, while their real
delign was to employ that terrible authority againfl
him and the people. The dictator ordered Kim tc
prison. The people were deeply affeifted ; but
the authority was thought to be legal, and the
Romans had prcfcribed" bounds to' themselves,
through which they dare not break. The
rity of the dictator and senate held them in such
relpect, that neither the tribunes nor the people
ventured to raise their eyes or open their mouths,
fliey put on mourning, however, and let their
liair and beards grow, and surrounded the prison
with continual crowds, manifefling every fi<m 0 f
2;rief and affliction. They publicly said, that the
kdtator's triumph was over the people, not the
V ol fci, and that all that was wanting was to have
Manlius dragged before his chariot. Every thino
iifcovered fyinptonis of an immediate revolt.—
Here comes in atrait of arillocratical cunning a d
caprandum vulgus, much more gross than° anv
cliat had been praCtised bj Manlius. To foften
the people, the senate became generous all at
once, ordered a colony of two thousand citizens
to be sent out, assigning each of them two acres
and an halt of land. Though this was alaro-eis
it was confined to too small a number,
too moderate .to take off all Manlius's friends
flie artifice was perceived, and when the abdi
cation of the dicta tor fliipof Coilbs had removed
the fears of the people, and set their tongues at
liberty, it had small effedt in appealing the peo
ple who reproached one another with ingrati
tude to their defenders, for whom they exprefled
great zeal at firft, but always abandoned in time
ot danger; witness Caffius and Melius The
people paflcd whole nights round the prison, and
thi eatened to break down the gates. The femt-p
at liberty, to prevent the people from
(To be continued.)
ANECDOTE.
A Madhonfe in Germany bein<r comtiVstwl .
the jicliiua requested the Emperor to honor him so fuf as 1 "1'
at the parts of the ft, lure before th*7u£tlc,wSe"ad
muted ; this tne Imperial Joseph coast ntcd to «d whil-I
ln the house, fomc one chalked under th iSfrn!,™ ■ f'*"
The Hofpitat for Lunatic*,
A ' ESSAIi en FREE TRADE ar.i FINA\C"S
particularly shewing whatfuppltcs ofp-.flj, r ~"/;
nue fnay be drawn from Merchandise, without)"',
jitring our trade or burdening our people,
Continuedfrom our laji.
I. This mode of taxation may fafely be raife,l
to such a degree, as to produce all the money Zt
need Jor the public ferviee, or fufficiently near it ■
perhaps a fin all tax in the ordinary way would
be more beneficial to the States, than none be
cause this tax keeps the customary avennes from
the wealth of individuals, to the public u-ealurv
alway's open, which may be uf'ed on emergencies
and the habit and practice being fettled, would
avoid the difficulties naturally aiifing from no .
velty, or innovations. But to return to my ar
gument. 'Tis greatly in favor of this kind of
tax, that it will bring money enough for the pub
lic ferviee ; 'tis matter of great animation in the
pursuit of any object, to know that when accpm
pliflied, it will be adequate to itspurpofes. Fe».
pie all want to fee the end of things, and to
know when they are to have done : This will
naturally produce much stronger efforts, vigor
and cheerfulnefs, than if the thing when accom,
pliihed, would be but half adequate to its pur
poses.
11. This mode of taxation, applies for mncj
where 'tis to be had in grcate-fl plenty, and can he pail
with snofl ease and leaf} pai>i. If we apply to the
farmer, tradefinan or labourer for cafli, they
have mighty little of it, and 'tis hard for them
to raise the neceHary sum ; but 'tis matter of com
mon course with the merchant, through whofc
hands the great current of circulating cajh pajfes ■, he
will consider the tax as part of the ifirft coll of
his goods, and set his price and fell accordingly:
It matters little to him, whether he payshalfthe
coftofhis goods abroad, and the other half at
home, or whether he pays it all abroad, his ob
ject is to get the whole out of his sales, with as
much profit to liimfelf as he can.
111. This mode lays the burden of tax on that
kind of consumption, which is excessive and hurtjtd,
and lejfens that consumption, and of course menis the
trcon'.uiy, and increases the induflry and health if the
people. For'tis plain, that no more money will
be paid for the goods taxed, than would have
been paid for the fame kind of goods, had they
not been taxed : The difference is, the fame mo
ney paid for the taxed goods, will not buy foma
ny of them as before the tax; because the tax will
raise the price of them ; and when the consump
tion or use of such goods is excelT-e and hurtful,
this leflening of it is a benefit, though the fame
money is paid for them as before, for the fame
reason that 'tis better for a man that happens to
be at a tavern with excessive drinkers to pay his
whole share of the reconning but drink less than
his share of the liquors, and go htm: sober, than
to pay the fame reckoning, drink his full fhjre
of the liquors, and go home drunk< 'Tis always
better for a man to buy poison and not use it,
than to buy the fame poison and use it; in the
one cafe he loses nothing but his money, in the
other cafe he loses his money and health too.
For the fame reason 'tis better for a reaper to
drink half a pint of rum in a day, than to re»p
for the fame wages and drink a quart of rum.
This reasoning will hold in its proper degree,
with refpetft to every kind of consumption, which
is excessive and hurtful.
(To be continued.
NATIONAL MONITOR.-—No. VHIT"
" A disposition to complain, creates cause of complaint."
1 ROM the earheji periods of hifiory, mankind have been as tenacms
J the right to criminate or find fault, as if their happiness was tiff
bar ably connected with tt—whereas nothing is perhaps r.ore certain,
than that those nils of which they complain the loudefi, often cm
their exijler.ee to a fpmt of repining.
7he world has kept its ufuai course from age to age, " feed time and
harvejl, day and night, summer and winter, have not ceafed"—*axd then
" i/'l r < a fon to juppofe, that the order oj the natural world,
will he continued, until the final consummation of all things. —To con
p Jin then oj providence, that its arrangements do notfuit our particular
conventency, u impious, is absurd.
I he jate tj mankind we may very fairly conclude, has not receivedt
melioration oj its condition from thefpirit as complaint—and the moral
world owes vety little of its improvement in virtue and benevolence,»
that temper oj mind which leads us to rail againjl the tines.
<>r is the political world any more indebted to this ungratefulpropenj
ty. 7he circumflances of a free country are often brought to a very cri
tical ft tuetion, through the injurious exercise of this right to crimnaU
the conduEl of public cfficcrs. —Perhaps no people upon earth have mart
creative imaginations, are more jealous, and impatient, than the citizen*
of America.— Jealousy has been denominated a political virtue—but
Sue jealousy of fame perjoas is, by its ejfetls, a mean, pitifulfufptciin—
derogatory to the dignity of human nature—and difpifed by every inde
pendent mind which is made the fubjeEl of its attack. —If otir Mtcipt"
tions are beyond the probability oj nature, the conference aiillbe dif'i >•
pomtmert—in such cafe, crimination should begin at home. —Wemaybt
impatient in waiting to realize our cxpeflations ; but this impatience
will add to our chagrin when the moment arrives of a total defeat to our
unreasonable desires.
U fi'% ex P a great deal of gratification from any thin}
dsno mm is so perfectly majler of his own measures, as to be able to
provide jor every contingence, so disappointments withrefpeH to theJ"'-
C( J S °f those under the direction of our civil rulers, should be ficbm'tti
to without complaint, when there appears to be anhorefy of princip c.
It maybe ajjerted with confidence, that an intemperate indulgence to*
Jptrit of complaint, with refpeti to our civil rulers, will produce' fjt
very evils which we fear,by difcouragingthe wife, the virtuous, and'' -
pendent from taking any part at public hje—This will open the tua\forJ" r p
as have no charatlerto lose: Who,white they plunder,abufe and opprifi
people,will alike contemn their complaints, and their J
Publi/hedby~JOHN FENNO, No. 9, TSaTpen -
Laws, near the Ofwe§o-Murke(, Nsw-Yy&K.—*"■!