No. XVI.
the TABLE T. No. XVI.
• Customs are not always so-wrong as they appear to be.'
IN walking the streets the other day, I over
heard two gentlemen conversing ; one of
whom warmly reprobated the practice of pre-en
gasino votes for an election. The unreserved
in which he exprefled himfelf, indicated
peculiar degree of franknefs and honesty. 1
*as on the firll impreflion,involuntarily led into
a coincidence of sentiment ; but upon more ma
ture reflection, I am induced to take a different
fide of the question.
This is one of thole political points, that can
o nly be determined by a consideration of the cir
cnmftances, that attend each particular cafe. In
a community made up of numerous small corpor
ations, where the settlements are frequent, and
the inllitutions offociety so formed, that the peo
ple, as a matter of course, acquire a knowledge
of characters, no benefit results from electioneer
ing. Connecticut is a community that falls with
in'this description. If a candidate for an office,
in that State, comes forward with his pretentions,
it will have, either a bad effect, or none at all.—
Should it so happen, that his reputation is pre
viously eftabli/hed, he has no occalion for any ex
ertions in his own behalf. But Ihould his charac
ter, from any cause, not be generally known, his
solicitude may so operate, as to do an injury to
himfelf, or the public. If he is a man of real,
though unknown merit, he may render it suspi
cious, by an attempt to proclaim it to a people, who
have been accuitomed to seek their own objects
ofpraife and preferment. If he is an undelet
ing man, it is potfible he may, by foine seducing
arts, catch the popular humour, and carry his
point, to the eKclufionof one who is meritorious.
As a general rule in Connecticut, it will be bet
ter for the candidate himfelf, and fafer for the
people, that he Ihould make no bustle about his
election. It may happen, however, that some
extraordinary cases will authorise a departure
from this principle.
In a community differently circumstanced, the
reverie may be proper and beneficial. Where the
difttifts are latge, the inhabitants thinly scatter
ed, and compoled of various descriptions of peo
ple ■, and where the interior regulations are not
calculated to render it for the inclination or con-
Tenience of men to have a general knowledge of
cach other, I believe the public interell is promo
ted by a pvetty active spirit of electioneering.—
The confufion and animosities that prevail on
these occasions, may be disagreeable and hurtful;
but they must be considered as an evil neceflarily
resulting from the nature of the fituarion.
When a candidate offers himfelf for an office, he
puts himfelf up as a public mark ; and, as it were,
calls upon mankind to invefligate his character.
His enemies will cxpofe his demerits, and though
there may be great Intrigue and deception on both
lides, yet upon the whole, if his reputation is no
toriously bad, he will not probably succeed in liis
election. There is no other method, under such
circumltances, for the people to ascertain charac
ters. It is a poor method, but it is better than
none. It is bad doing with it, but no doing with
out it.
Probably men would be worse than they are,
if they were not restrained from vicious or impru
dent conduct, by a fear that their foibles or their
vices would be expoled, When they are placed in
a conspicuous. ftarion. I rccolleCt an anecdote,
whioh may fcrve as a striking instance of the cau
tion, which a prudent man observes, in offering
hiiufeli to the people a candidate of their choice.
A gentleman in a neighboring state was solicited
by his friends to propose himfelf as areprefenta
tive for a certain diftriift. His vanity was flatter
ed witlrthe idea that was suggested to hint. He
hid no other oljeCtion.he faid,againft the attempt,
than that it would bring his character to a molt
critical telt. Though he was hot conftious of any
C'tcumftance in his life that deserved censure, or
that would excite ridicule ; yet it was possible,
ome incident had escaped hiin, which some other
Person might recolleift and urge to his diladvan
•age, "On such an occasion," said he, " the
•neniory of one's enemy is remarkably quick and
nearive ; and behdes, any l?;tle inadvertency,
t was uv ei looked when it happened,may now
e remembered and exaggerated in such ltrong
jOiours, as will give it the complexion of a very
ameable atflion. There is, upon the whole, a
que in defying the World to fcrutlnize .00 exact
) t e diverfified scenes of my life." Such l'ug
fj, 10 , ns . not restrain his friends from repeat
thp 1 'V Rations ; and at length he allured
We^ n,t j tw odays he would give his final anf
v p V he lnea, i time, he had a trying inter
fo hold with his wife. It occurred to him
event, that hrmiglit be pointed at as
From WEDNESDA Y, June 3, to S A T U R D A Y, JunT 6, 1789.
a cuckold. He never entertained the lealt fufpi
cioii offuch a thing ; and was perfectly happy in
Ins conjugal connection. If his wife had ever
made a miitake of that nature, he was ignorant of
it, and it gave him no uneafhiefs ; but lhould lie
uiFer himfelf a candidate for an office, the inmost
secrets ofhis family would be discovered. There
are certain moments, when the mind of a man is
so susceptible, that the possibili ty of an evil afl'uines
the appearance of reality. He could not commu
nicate the affair to his wife, without a perturba
tion of spirits, that indicated real jealousy. .But
his feelings were too critical to be suppressed, and
he liefitatingly described his cafe. After suitable
explanations the matter was amicably fettled :
His wife overlooked the enquiry ; and he fa
tisfied of her fidelity. No difficulty now flood in
his waj. He came out boldly with his preten-
but within three days afterwards, he was
mortified to fee in the new'fpapers, a very severe
attack upon the character of his ancestors. His
grandfather had, by some unjuftifiable a<ft, render
ed hinifelt odious to his neighbors ; and though
the circumstance was generally forgot, yet On this
occasion, the whole tranfaOtion was revived ; and
our candidate, instead of carrying his ele(flion,
had a mean epithet or nick-name fixed upon hiin,
which to this day he wears with lively mortifica
tion.
EXTRACT FROM " AMERICAS' ESSAYS."
On C O M M E R C E. [Continuation.]
THE Dutch were so early prepofleffed in favor
of Commerce, and distant colonies, that even at
that critical period, when they were confideredas
dependent provinces, and were involved in a long,
expensive, bloody war, in order to lhake off the
Spanish yoke, they never loft light of those im
portant objects, by which, and a due attention to
the importance of a NAVY, they were enabled,
not only to support the expences of that war, but
even greatly to enrich themselves ; and at the
fame time, tofurniih Henry the IVth. with men
and money, to co-operate with them against the
com.non enemy, the King of Spain, who was at
that period l'orich, and powerful, from Commerce,
and his colonies, that he only wanted less bigotry,
with common prudence, to have enabled him to
give laws to all Europe.
Although nature has been extremely parfuno
nious of her favors to Holland, not only with ref
pedt to her coast, which is very dangerous, and
her harbours few, and barred, (but the country
itfelf seems of right to belong more to the ocean
than to terra firma, and is only preserved from in
undation by dint of constant Itruggle, labor, and
immenfeexpenfe) yet it now abounds in produc
tions and resources of every kind,the natural fruits
of indultry, extensive Commerce, and flourifhing
colonies.
The Dutch merchants, individually considered,
are universally acknowledged to be the richest in
the world, and Amjlerdam may, at this day, be
considered the second grand mart in Europe ; and
the great Store Hoitfe of the commercial world ;
and it is computed, that the city of Amsterdam
alone, pays more than one third part of all the
taxes of the United Provinces. Yet in all emer
gencies and exigencies of the States, the Dutch
have ever kept in view the importance of Com
merce, and necessity of observing great modera
tion in laying duties or imposts 011 rrade ; having
always considered it their primary and molt cer
tain dependence ; and the event has fully proved
the measure to be wife and politic.
Manufactures, of almoit every kind, are now
carried on to great advantage in Holland ; and
at the fame time, Amsterdam can furnifh the ma
nufactures of all Europe, nearly as cheap as the
countries fchere they are made.
This ideais worthy the contemplation of the ci
tizens of the United States of America. We have
very rich neighbors, who begin to open their eyes
to tneir own particular interelt : We cannot have
better customers ; and nothing is more natural,
or probable, than a very extensive and advan
tageous commercial intercourse, when it shall be
known that we are poffefled of the means to sup
port and encourage it.
Insurances are now publicly made in London,
on veflels and cargoes from that port bound to the
coast of Brazil to be fold to the Portugueze, the
underwriters take all risks, at 10 pr. cent. The
neceflity of a drawback, 011 the exportation of all
goods, which pay a duty on importation, is there
fore too evident to be controverted,without which
it would be fruitlefs to attempt a foreign com
merce, on which the prosperity of Ameiica prin
cipally depends : Should heavy duties on impor
tations into the United States be early attempted,
it is greatly to be feared, that it will encourage at
tempts at Smuggling, which would be greatly fa-
cilitated by our innumerable faf e ports and inlets;
because Commerce, in its prefcnt infant state, can
not be fufficiently productive to support the num
ber ol officers, that would be necellary effeiflual
'y to guard all thole ports ; and at the fame time,
anlwer the more eflential purpofesof revenue: If
therefore only moderate duties are imposed, they
will of courle be more cheerfully paid—will dil°-
coujage all illicit attempts, and be certainly pro
ductive of much greater revenue: Smuggling Js
known and pradtii'ed more or less in all countries :
I here are many who atfedl to think it no crime to
rob the revenue ; and it is well known, that njany
captains of vellels have not scrupled to swear to
the truth of falfe manilefts and invoices; and
have often not been aihamed to avow the perjury,
pretending to believe a cuftom-lioufe oath less sa
cred than any other ; and thereby iinpioufly deny
ing the übiquity ofthe Deity ; but however infa
mous the name of an hifcrt/ter may have founded
in the ears ol the people of America before the re
volution, and however venial the offence may have
then appeared to cheat a king, the cafe is now wide
ly different : In robbing the revenue at this day,
we cheat ourselves ; an Informer is therefore our
friend; a Smuggler is incontrovertibly a pub
lic injury, and therefore deserves the moll igno
minious punilhment ; the fair trader is a public
benefit, and therefor deserves the greatest en
couragement and support ; and as a contraband
trade, with every other species of fraud by which
the revenue is robbed of its duds, directly tends to
the ruin of the fair trader, as well as to the injury
ofthe state, surely no honell man can hefnate
which fide to take, or doubt whether he shall sup
port a friend, or an enemy : None but an enemy
to the country will attempt to injure it ; none
but an enemy will encourage, or even conceal the
attempt.
No natron upon the globe is poflefled of so many
natural advantages for the great purpofesof Com
merce, and Colonization, as the United States of
America : Her coast, and alnioft innumerable har
bors, from her molt northern boundaries to the
river St. Mary, which divides Georgia from the
Spanish territories, are throughout their vail ex
tent, the fa left, most navigable, and most commo
dious in the world. There is no part of the globe
where ships may with equal fafety navigate, where
the risk is so equal in all feafousof the year, not
withstanding the fcverity of the winters on the
northern coast, or where navigation fultains so
few injuries : Nothing more is wanting to ensure
ourprofperity, but to find markets to take off our
almost incxliaultable, and still encreafing fuper
fluities : These markets would probably be most
elfcd.ually secured by planting diflant colonies,where
we could establish a certain exclusive interchange
of commodities,to mutual advantage—or by eftab
lifliing factories in some of the Aliatic provinces,
or elfewhere,totally independent of any European
power—to barter with the natives for such arti
cles, as may either serve for our own use, or to re -
mit where our own produce will not fell, or is pro
hibited.
The establishment of colonies, or even facto
ries, in advantageous situations, particularly in
Alia, (though I would by 110 means confine my
views to that quarter ofthe globe) is evidently an
objed: of vast importance to the United States, as
naturally tending to promote the rapid increase
of their naval strength, which would soon render
them too formidable to dread any unprovoked in
jury, or insult. lam well aware, that the pre
sent exhausted state of our public finances pre
cludes the idea of any early public exertions in sup
port of the prosecution ofany new schemes, how
ever advantageous they may appear ; but there
are private merchants in America, of abilities,
enterprise, and fortunes, equal to any poflible un
dertaking ; and government is always able so far
to promote every measure tending to the public
good, as to secure to the firlt pat iotic adventur
ers, certain privileges and immunities, that lhall
ultimately compensate to them, or their heirs, the
risk, trouble and expence.
The world is wide, and immense tracfts in Asia,
Africa, and America, perhaps some of the richest,
remain yet unknown," or unexplored : these may
hereafter fall to the lot of Americans to clifcover
and poflefs ; and thereby open new sources of
riches—and be a new stimulus to our industry.
E. C.
AMERICAN MACHINE.
It is raid, that ihere is now in the pofleflion of William Pol
lard, Eta. of Philadelphia, a valuable spinning machine on a
new conftruftion, and far superior to any tiling of the kind,
which has yet appeared in Pennsylvania. Britifti emilTaries have,
on former occaiions, purchased and lent off from this countrv,
machines calculated to promote the manufa£hires of America.
Doubtlefsthe present proprietor of th;s machine will be lufficicnt
ly on his guard against negotiations so prejudicial to the United
States.
PRICE SIX PENCfc.A SKETCH OF THE POLITICAL STATE OF AMERICA.
[Continued from So. XV.J
WE have been, in a former number, speaking
of the mode of obtaining money for the support
oi Government, in which various and compli
cated difficulties were found to attend the levy
ing the tariff, or impolt, with an equal hand and
nice discerning eye : we now come to the mode
of collection, in which ltill greater difficulties
ariie ;—ln a country pofl'eHing the extensive sea
coast, the innumerable bays, rivers, creeks and
inlets, we have in America, it requires not a lit
tle f'agacity to conftru<ft those guards and barri
ers, to prevent the evasion of the law, which, in
cases like these, mankind have ever been found
orone to seek opportunities of doing—and per
haps the inventive genius and subtle arts of men
have, on this fubjedt, had their full scope and ex
ercise in all other countries; and to presume on
our peculiar virtue, and want of skill or enter
prise, in such undertakings, will be building on
weak grounds, and doing wrong to the American
character : Private interest among mankind, has
been generally found to predominate over public
spirit—and this principle, so strong in human na
ture, will not be likely to operate less faintly here
than with the reft of the world. These observa
tions being assented to, as I think they mull, the
necessity of purfuingfuch measures to prevent as
far as possible, the effecft of this preponderating
principle, as have been attended with fuccefselfe
where, naturally presents itlelf to view : But here
let me renew an observation before made, that
the general scale or standard which governs the
plan of the Import, will efientially affecft the pro
dutft of the Revenue—and as far as this is found
to be reasonable and judicious, will the need of
coercion be proportionably diminilhed ; for in
fucn n position of the cafe, the risque of finuggling
will exceed the objejfl to be thereby obtained—
which consideration will be ever nicely weighed
by the merchant in his calculations .—But to re
turn to the Ipecific point in view—While every
encouragement ought to be held out to the fair
ti ader by the principles of the system—on the
other hand, every proper caution and preventa
tive again ft the pernicious practice of smuggling
Ihould mark the plan of collection, not only to
secure the reyenue, but to preserve the morals of
tiie community from the baneful contagion ari
ftng from such pursuits. Those embarraflinents
which proceed from the natural situation of the
country, cannot be avoided—and while numer
ous harbors and inlets will neceflarily multiply
revenue officers, yet this reffedrion is in a degree
alleviated, by viewing those harbors and inlets
as so many avenues to the encreafing wealth and
consequent strength of our country ; and frequent
inland navigation may be efteeined amongnature's
choicell blellings. It is not to be doubted that
every particular part of the community will hope
to be freed from the disadvantage of going out
of the diretfl path of their navigation, in order to
make their entries, deliveries, clearances, &c. but
it will be in vain to expect the wifhed-for latitude
on this point, unless they consent to a total facri
fice of the revenue, and view the payment of its
officers as the sole objecft for which it was levied.
Every partial inconvenience, in such cases, must
be submitted to, in order to further the general
good ; and until this principle takes deeper root
in the public mind, on all occasions, national
measures will only serve to present in a morecon
fpicuous light our national imbecility.
The mode of reimbursing the revenue officers
for their services, ought to be as far as poflible so
conftrucftcd, as to make the faithful purfr.it of their
duty fuperiorto any temptation to fraud : It may
be well therefore, to produce this effect, that two
different principles should be adopted in deter
mining their stipends : In large ports, and where
an extensive trade is carried on, let their compen
sation result from a fpecified commifiion on the
a gg re g ate aii'ouut of their negociations,which will
tend to excite their vigilance, and make them
zealous to fill up the money columns in the cuf
tom-honie books : In smaller and less productive
ports, a fixed ialary, in proportion to the probable
service, may be thought a stronger incitement to
duty, or if paid by commilfions, as in the former
cafe, those different powers which in the larger
ports are divided, can here be united inoneper
fon : It will be difficult to exceed in the number
and variety of checks and barriers to prevent falfe
entries, reports, manifeftos, invoices, &c. Here
oct ular demonstrations and critical compares, will
be found serviceable auxilaries to oaths and affir
mations : An immediate dif'charge of duties in
every instance, is rather to be wiihed for, than
expected, where a deficiency of circulating me
dium is evident, and a ready demand and con
sumption often uncertain and irregular : There
fore the giving bond") in i'ufficient security for their
payment at afhort, though future period, will be
iotind expedient—while a discount allowed upon
prompt payment will produce exertion to tiiis
purpose : In regard to articles on which drawbacks
are permitted, it will be found advantageous to
provide public store* for their deposit—lest by
some magic or miraculous power, wine may be
foinetimes converted to water ; and the duties on
merchandize thus dcpofited, will he as in other
cases, bonded for—which bonds ffiall be cancelled
by a certificate from the naval officer of their ex
portation.
But I leave any further detail upon this alinoft
exhauftleft fubjeft, to take a view of lome other
fourcesfrom which the public chelt must alfode
rive its supplies : And here let ine observe, that
as national wealth is but a composition of the
wealth of its individual citizens, from a want of
attention to those general principles, which serve
to fill the lefier springs and streams, the great
common fountain must be less productive, or be
come proportionably exhausted ; and without "in
dustry and economy, those handmaids to wealth
and affluence, among the great mass of the people,
America will in vain expect to reach the zenith ol
national glory and splendor.
AMERICANUS.
(To bt continued.)
THE TRIUMPH OF FATE. A SON nit.
Turn—The banks oj the Dee.
THE beauties of Flora delightfully blooming,
The ladies ofTrenton, arranging difplay'd,
More splendid :n beauty frefh glory alTuming,
When arches triumphal with them were array'd;
The Hero llluflrious had lately arrived,
Who all the past dangers of War had survived ;
From whom all the blessings of Peace are derived,
On whom the whole burden of Empire is laid.
The brilliant aflembly of beauties advancing,
With harmony soothing, and scenery grand;
While smiles were foft dimpling and graces were glancing,
The Hero himfelf condescended to stand.
Before him young Virgins gay flowers w-re ftrowing.
And all their rich fragrance delightfully blowing,
While mulical {trains were melodiously flowing,
Sensations of rapture what breast could withfland.
1789.
SKETCH of PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES.
Wednesday, June 3, 1789.
The bills for the arrangement of the two de
partments of war and foreign affairs were read a
second time—and afligned for Tuesday next, in
committee of the whole.
A meliage was received from the Senate,inform
ing of their concurrence in a report of the com
mittee of 28thult.refpecfting the printing bufmels.
The Senate also sent a ineflage to inform the
House, that their members were this day to take
the Oath required by the Constitution—and re
quelled the original law refpetfting oaths, which
had been yesterday returned to the House bv The
President. 3
In committee of the -whole.
The Bill to regulate the collection of the reve
nue again under consideration—when further
progress was made in filling up the blank, by a
greeing to the following, as ports of entry and
delivery, viz.
Clieftertown,
Oxford,
Vienna,
Baltimore,
Snow Hill, |> Maryland.
Georgetown,
Annapolis,
St Mary's,
Patuxent.
Norfolk, and Portfirtouth,"
Hampton,
Yorktown,
Urbanna,
Alexandria, Virginia.
Kinfale,
Foley's Landing,
Cherrystone,
South (^uay.
Charleston, p
Georgetown, > South Carolina. 4
Beaufort, S
Savannah, -1
Sunbury, .
Brunfwick, r Georgia.
St. Patrick's, on St. Mary's river. J
P epperelborough,
Bath, on Kennebec river,
W ifcaflet, on Sheepfcut river,
Penobfcot,
Machias, [>
Paflainaquoddy,
1 or k. [Barnftable.
Barnftable, in the county of
she Committee then rose, and the House ad
journed.
June 4.
In committee of the whole on the bill to retm
late the colle<sHon of the revenue.
!" Rom the firlt article which provides for the
constituting ports of « entry only" the word
' .only was it ruck out, to insert " and delivery."
The next article which runs thus, " That the: e
shall also be constituted, the following ports
which lhall be ports of delivery only, viz." was
read, and the committee proceeded to fill up the
blank by agreeing upon the following ports, viz.
Kennebunk, Matfachufctts.
Weft Point,
Newport,
Tappahannoc,
Frederickfburg;, ; ... .
Suffolk, f V ' r g""'-
C Burmuda Hundred, |
£ [City Point, |
Rockets Landing. . J
Burlington, 1
Newark, C New - Jersey.
New Brunfwick, J
Mr. Lawrancf. proposed to insert a clause to
this effecft, that all ihips, or veflels, arriving at
New-York, from any foreign port, and destined
to the city of Hudlon, Albany, Efopus Creek
Poughkeepfie,or Newburg, in Hudson River, lhall
enter atthe port of New- York—and having there
paid the duties, or secured them to be paid, they
may then proceed to either of said ports to deli
ver their cargoes—the collector at New-York
putting on board a land or tide waiter—and tak
ing effectual means to prevent frauds. This
clause was adopted.
Mr. Jackson introduced another clause, pro
viding for the forming the sea coalt of the State
of Georgia into four districts, to include ports of
entry and delivery : This division was agreeable
to the laws of that State. This was adopted as
was also a clause, introduced by Mr. Goodhue,
firnilar to that from Mr. Lawrance—which pro
vided that veflels bound up Merrimack river,
should enter and pay, or secure the duties at New
bui-yport. The committee then rose.
Mr. Baldwin, from the committee appointed
to bring in a bill, or bills, for the arrangement of
the Three Executive Departments, reported a
bill for the Treasury Department—which was read,
and laid on the table.
Mr. Benson gave notice that to-morrow he
should move for a committee of the whole, on the
state of the Union—to take up the proposition ref
pe<fting Rhode llland.
Mr. Benfon's resolution is in the following words.
THE Congress of the United States do resolve uni
declare it to be their mo ft came ft dejire, that the legi
ftature of the State of Rhode IJland and Providence
plantations, do recommend to the people oj that State
to choose delegates to meet in Convention, and to whom
the Conflitution »f the United States is to be fubmittei,
conformably to the unanimous resolution of the United
States in Congress ajfembled, of the llth Sept. 1787.
Friday, June j, i 789.
A meflage from the Senate, which was received
yesterday, providing for the tranfmiflion of the
atfls of Congress to the executives of the several
States, was read a second time and received the
unanimous concurrence of the House.
Mr. Wynkoop asked leave of absence for a
fortnight, which was granted.
J lie bill providing for the arrangement of the
treasury department, was read a second time,
and referred to a committee of the whole House.
Mr. Jackson gave notice, that on Wednesday
next, he fliould move for the appointment of a
committee, to bringin a bill for the establishment
of a system of naturalization for the United States.
Mr. Benson proposed, that the House should
then form itfelf into a committee of the whole, on
the state of the Union, and take into confedera
tion the proposed resolution refpetfiing; Rhode-
Island. ,
This occasioned a fliort discussion, which termi
nated in taking the previous question—Whether
the House fliould now fonn itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole for the above purpose ! This
parted in the negative, and so the proposed
resolution was loft.
The House then formed into a committee of
the whole, on the bill to regulate the collection
of the revenue. The article of " ports of deliver■/'
being under confederation,the following addition
was made to those agreed upon yesterday, viz.
Ipswich, ..
Manchester,
Beverly,
Danvers,
Lynn, •
Claarleftown, ; Majfachufetts.
Med ford,
Swanzey or Freetown.
Weftport,
Duxbury,
Peterfburgh, p
Cumberland, f Virginia.
Smithfield, \
Mi. Ames introduced a petition from the Ar
tificers and Manufacturers of the town of
okon which being read, was laid 011 the table.
Mi. Vining gave notice, that on Wednesday
next, he should fubrrrit to the House a resolve,
providing for the eftablifhinent of a fourth fnbor
mate executive department— to be denominated,
the department of the Secretary of the United
ot ™? s ° r Domestic AFFAIRS.
le House then adjourned to Monday new-
ui
\'»utvjy Jo toutaoujdomestic articles.
nucHMOND, May 27.1 DIED, on Monday the
oR instant, in the 33d year of his age, Mr.
tOHN M'LEAN, Printer, at Norfolk, a native
J?rlaArow In this amiable Character were
u tiHpJ the polite Gentlemen, kind Matter, molt
£tnate £iend, and the universal Philan
throphift*
Now mourn ye sweet Nymphs of the Dale,
for the Pride of our Village is fled:
• Let Tcari of Affli&ion prevail,
And descend like the Dew on his head.
Why withers yon Rose in its Bloom,
And why twinkle yon Stars thus so dim ?
The Li"ht which they borrow'd is gone,
And Affli&ion i> fill'd to the Brim.
A Dawn of bright Hope yet appears,
And though our dear Strcphon's no more,
The Heart that difpell'd others Tears,
Shall be fill'd with' Bills evermore.
[Philadelphia, June?.] Wehearthebu.
/; nc f s of calico printing, is likely to be underta
ken by forae Europeans here. There is a great
field for profit, it being supposed, that one hun
dred and fixty-five thouland pieces are annually
imported.
Extratt of a Utter from a Swedijh gentleman in Lon
don, to his friend in this city, dated Feb. I 5.
" All Europe is amazed at the nefarious, and
never hitherto heard of dil'obedience in the Swe
difli army, which has fruftrated the best designs.
The malcontents have long ago rued their crimi
nal folly- The people have with alaudable zeal
i'upported the King in defence of the country.
Corps of volunteers are formed every where. The
little Island Oland * has armed jooo young coun
try fellows : all the other provinces have done in
proportion: the interior parts of the country,
which are lheltered from invasion, have made
large contributions of money and provilions. I
have with the warmest emotions of joy perused the
Swedifti Gazettes for some time part, and am per
suaded that the nation in general feel for their
King and country as true Swedes.—Sweden, like
all other countries, is pestered with some fordid
creatures, who cannot refill; the illurements ol
avarice and ambition. These impudent traitors
pretend to be champions for public liberty, but
every body knows that tliey were purchased by
Ruffian rubles and splendid promifesof indepen
dence in Finlandf.
* An island in the Baltic, 80 miles long and 9or 10 wide.
+ The Em pre (a of Ruflfia had formed a plan for separating
country from Sweden, under colour of making it independent.
[New-Haven, May 27.] A few days since,
a Mr. Pritchard, of \Y aterbury, being on his
land dicing a ditch, dug up a root, which his
curiosity led him to taste of—he soon found him
felfdifordered, and returned to his house (with
the root in hishand) which, as soon as he enter
ed, informed his wife that he had eat of it, and
apprehended he was poifoned—oll which he fell
down, was suddenly fiezed withconvullions, and
expired in a few hours. The root proved to be
what is commonly known by the name of wild
parsnip.
NEW-YORK, JUNE 6, 1789.
Yesterday the following ADDRESS from the
Central Aijanbly of the Prefbytcrian Church, in the
United States, at their late Meeting; in Philadel
' O
phia, was presented by a committee of that body,
consisting of The Moderator,
The Rev. Dr. M'WhortEr,
The Rev. Mr. Roe,
John Bayard, •>
J ' t. F. [quires,
John Broome, )
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
S I R,
THE general aflembly of the Preibyterian
church, in the United States of America, embrace
the eailieli opportunity in their power, to teftify
the lively and unfeigned pleasure which they,
with the reit of their fellow-citizens, feel 011 your
appointment to the firft office in the nation.
We adore Almighty God the Author of every
perfedt jiift, who hath endued you with such a
rare and happy aftemblage of talents, as hath
Rendered you equally neceflary to your country
m war and in peace.
Jour military achievements ensured fafety
and glory to America, in the late arduous con
jitt ior freedom ; while your disinterested con
and uniformly just discernment of the pub
jc uitereft, gained you the entire confidence of
T e people. And in the present interesting peri
-0 ot public afFairs, the influence of your perfo
c laradter moderates the divisions of political
P f r V eS ' . a ! ld p ro 'nifes a permanent eftabliffiment
01 trie civil government.
r°m a retirement more glorious to you than
nrones and sceptres, you have been called to
your piefent elevated liation, by the voice of a
great and freepeople ; and with an "unanimity of
fuffrage that has few if any examples in history.
A man more ambitious of fame, or less devoted
to his country, would have refufed an office in
which his honors could not be augmented, and
where they might possibly be fubje<ft toareverfe.
We are happy that God hath inclined your
heart to give yourfelf once more to the public.
And we derive a favourable presage of the event
from the zeal of all clafles of the people, and
rlieir confidence in your virtues ; as well as from
the knowledge and dignity with which the fede
ral councils are filled. But we derive a presage
even more flattering from the piety of your cha
racter. Public virtue is the moll certain mean ot
public felicity, and religion is the surest basis of
virtue. We therefore esteem it a peculiar hap
piness to behold in our chief inagiftrate a stea
dy, uniform, avowed friend of the Christian re
ligion ; who has commenced his adminiftratiou
in rational and exalted sentiments of piety, and
who, in his private condutft adorns the doiftrines
of the gospel of Christ ; and on the most public
md solemn occasions devoutly acknowlcges the
government of Divine Providence.
The example of diftinguilhed characters will
everpoflefs apowerful and extensive influence on
the public mind ; and when we fee, in such a
conspicuous ftatjon, the amiable example of pie
ty to God, of benevolence to men, and of a pure
and virtuous patriotifni, we naturally hope that
it will diffufe its influence, and that eventually
the most happy consequences will result from it.
To the force of imitation we will endeavour to
add the wholesome inftruiftions of religion. We
shall consider ourselves as doing an acceptable
service to God in our profeflion, when we coil
tribute to render men sober, honest, and indu
strious citizens, and the obedient fubjeifts of a
lawful government. In these pious labours, we
hope to imitate the most worthy of our brethren
of other Christian denominations,and to be imita
tatedbythem; afl'ured, that if we can by mutual
and generous emulation, promote truth and vir
tue, we shall render eflential service to the re
public ; we ffiall receive encouragement from
every wife and good citizen, and above ail, meet
the approbation of our divine mailer.
We pray Almighty God to have you always in
his holy keeping , may he prolong your valuable
life, an ornament and a blessing to your country;
and at last bellow on you the glorious reward ol :
a faithful servant.
iSigned by order of the General Assembly.
JOHN RODGERS, Moderator.
Philadelphia. May 26, 1 789.
To which the President was pleased to return
the following answer.
To the GENERAL ASSEMBLY of the PRESBYTE
RIAN CHURCH in the UNITED STATES of
AMERICA.
Gentlemen,
I RECEIVE with great sensibility, tlieteftimo
nial, given by the General Aflembly of the Pref
byterian Church in the United States of America,
of the lively and unfeigned pleasure experienced
by them, on my appointment to the firft office
in the nation.
Although it will be my endeavor to avoid being
elated, by the too favorable opinion which your
kindness for me may have induced you to express
of the importance of my former conducft, and
the effeift of my future services : Yet, conscious of
the difinterellednefs of my motives, it is not ne
ceflary for me to conceal the latisfacftion I have
felt upon finding that my compliance with the
call of my country and my dependence ontheaf
ftftance of Heaven to support me in my arduous
undertakings, have, so far as I can learn, met
the universal approbation of my countrymen.
While I reiterate the profeffions of my de
pendence upon Heaven as the source of all pub
lic and private blessings ; I will observe that the
general prevalence of piety, philanthropy, ho
neily, iuduftryand economy seems, in the ordi
nary course of human affairs, particularly necef
fary for advancing and confirming the happiness
of our country. —While all men within our ter
ritories are protected in worshiping the Deity ac
cording to the dictates of their consciences ; it
is rationally to be expected from them in return,
that they will all be emulous of evincing the fin
cerity of their profeflions, by the innocence of
their lives and the beneficence of their a<ftions.
For no man who is profligate in his morals or
a bad member of the civil community, can pos
sibly be a true christian or a credit to his own re
ligious society.
I defile you to accept my acknowledgments for
your laudable endeavors to render men sober,
honest and good citizens, and the obedient fub
jecfts of a lawful government ; as well as for youi
prayers to Almighty God for his blessing on oui
common country, and the humble instrument
which he has been pleased to make use of in the
administration of its government.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
i'aajicus will be attendtd to next week ; as will the continuation
of an Eflay on Trade and Finances.
His Excellency GEOIIGE CLINTON, Iseledl'
ed GOVERNOR—and
His Honor PIERRE VAN CORTL ANDT, Lieut.
Governor of the State of" New-York.
The SENATORS are,
Philip Livingfton, John Cantinc,
Philip SchuyLer, Alexander Wcbfter,
Volkert P. Douw, I Edward Savage.
James Carpenter,
THEATRE—JOHN STREET.
Last Evening was prelented that excellent Co
medy the Clandestine Marriage.
The President of the United States and his
Lady—the MoftHonorable Robert Morris and
Lady—the Gentlemen of The PrClident's Suite—
Honorable General Knox and Lady—Baron
Steubhn —and many other refpedtable and dis
tinguished characters, honored the Theatre
by their presence.
The reiterated plaudits bellowed on the vari
ous parts of the performance, designated the me
rit of the atftors—and it is but jult to fay, that,
animated by the countenance of l'uch illustrious
auditors, the characters Were supported with
great spirit and propriety.—Mrs. Henry and
Mrs. Morris,played with their usual naivete and
svith uncommon animation.
One great reason why people are disposed to
evade payment of taxes for the support of go
vernment, is, because they do not realize, that
individual delinquency enters into a total fubver
(ion of the public peace, happiness and security.
Such invaluable blessings mull be paid for : It is
the ordinance of Heaven—and they are worth the
purchase.
The GREAT- WHOLE, being constituted by
the dipititt members of society—it is of infinite
importance, that every one fliould feel their in
tegral consequence in the community: They
fliould realize that they have important rights to
be defended : These can be supported only by
juftand equal laws ; and that government alone,
is competent to their preservation.—That their
personal security, andthat of their property, are
the principal objecfls for Avhich laws are institu
ted : These ideas fliould enter very deeply into
the mind of every citizen.—Reflections of this
kind, would make the importance of good go
vernment appreciate in their estimation, and in- ■
iuce a chearful and cordial payment of those re
venue!, without which, these important blessings
cannot be realized or enjoyed.
There is neatness, conciseness, and perspicui
ty, in the firlt ACT which has palled the National
Legislature : These constitute the true fublinie !
May those ambiguities, fubtilties, verbosities, and
redundancies, which are the source of endless
perplexities, never confound the minds of our ci-.
tizens while learning their dilty from the LAWS
OF THE UNITED STATES.
IF the great principles of religion, honor,
and public spirit, are weak, or loft, what effec
tual check can there be, to controul the unboun
ded pursuits of avarice, ambition, and vanity ?
The effects that are naturally produced by the
vanity, dissipation, and rapacity of a diflolute
people, are, carelessness with refpedt to their
public affairs—debility of genius—and a sense
less facrifice of their dearest interests—till they
become inveloped in a maze of perplexity, and
embarrassments, and finally fall into the hands
of a proud usurper.
A defect in national principles, and manners,
generally precedes the ruin of a people: This
deficiency is a worm at the root of national uni
on, strength, and dignity.
Every great national scheme mult depend ulti
mately, in every free State, uponcorrefponding
sentiments in the great mass of the people ; for
the vigour and success of public measures, are
suspended upon the general opinion of the eligi
bility of those measures in the minds of the great
agent, the people: In despotic governments, this
is by no means the cafe, for there the people are
only the machines of the powers that be.
On the 3d ult. the legislature of the State of
Connecticut, by adt, prohibited the exportation
of wheat, rye, Indian corn, wheat and rye Hour,
and Indian meal, out of that State, by land or
sea. In consequence of this art, his Excellency
the Governor of that State has iit'ued his procla
mation, commanding all persons within the State
to yield implicit obedience to said a<ft.
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK.
H'ednefday, BrigSwanzey, Slater, Cork, 42 days.
Schooner Polly, Travers, Baltimore, 9 days.
Sloop Fanny, Ingram, Turks Island, 22 aays.
Sloop General Green, , Alexandria, 13 days.
Thursday, Ship Ann and Susan, Seeds, Bourdeaux, 43 days.
Brig Patty, Maltiby, St. Thomas, 20 days.
Brig Sally, Raymond, Cape-Francois, 18 days.
Schooner Lark, Lewis, St. Martins, 16 days.
Sloop Amity, Dickenfon, Turks Island, 19 days.
Sloop Rainbow, Cunice, N.Providence, 17 days.
Sloop Active, Greenleaf, St. Thomas, 20 days.
Friday, Brig Isabella, Taylor, Newfoundland, 14 days.
Schooner Pilgrim, Rpbins, York-Town, 7 days.
Sloop Betsey, Goffinger, Richmond, 7 days.
Sloop Dispatch, Summers, Philadelphia, 3 dayj.Tht RIGHT CONSTITUTION *f a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
[Continued from our
It oui author meant another affair of 4 f>, it is
still less to his purpole, or rather still more' con
duit vely againlt him. It was so far from bein*
true in the year 454 , the molt fjmple and frugal pe
riod or Roman history, " that none but honest,
41 generous, and public (pirits desired to be in au
thority, and that only for the common good,"
and that there " was no camaffing for voices,"
that the molt illustrious Romans offered them
selves as candidates for the consulship ; and it was
only the diftreis and imminent danger of the city
trom the Etrurians and Samnites, and an univer
lal alarm, that induced the citizens to call their
eyes 011 Fabius, who did not Hand. When he saw
the fufFrages run frqm him, he arose and spoke •
" Why should he be solicited, an old man, ex
" haufted with labours and satiated with rewards,
" to take the command? That neither the strength
" of his body or mind were the fame. Hedread
" ed the caprice of fortune. Some divinity might
think his success too great, too constant, too
" much for any mortal. He had succeeded to the
" glory of his ancestors, and he saw himfelf with
" joy succeeded by others. That great honors
" were not wanting at Rome to valour, nor va
" lour to honors It was extreme age, not the
" slender advantages of honors," that occalioned
Fabius's dilinclination, as it did that of Cincin
nati on another occasion. This refufal, how
ever, only augmented the desire of having him.
Fabius then required the law to be read, which
forbad the re-eledion of a Consul before ten years
The Tribunes proposed that it should be dispensed
■with, as all iuch laws in favour of rotations ever
are when the people wiJh it. Fabius asked why
laws were made, if they were to be broken or dis
pensed with by those who made them ; and de
claied that the laws governed no longer but
were governed by men f. The Centuries, how
ever, persevered, and Fabius was chosen. " May
" the gods make your choice fucce<sful !" fa/s
the old hero; " diipofe of me as you will but
" grant me one favour, Decius for my colleague
" a person worthy of his father, and of yon, and'
" one who 'will live in perfect harmony with me. "
There is no such stinginess of honors on the part of
the people, nor any I'uchrelutftance to the service
for want of them, as our author pretends ; it was
old age,and refped to the law only: And one would
think the sentiments and language of Fabius fuf
ficiently ariftocratical; his glory, and the glory
of his ancestors and posterity, seem to be upper
most in his thoughts : And tliat disinterestedness
was not lo prevalent in general, appears this very
year ; for a great number of citizens were cited
by the itdiles, to take their trials, for pofleffine
more land than the law permitted. All this ri
gour was neceiiiry to check the avidity of the
citizens. But do you fuppole Americans would
make or submit to a law to limit to a final 1 num
ber, or to any number, the acres 01" land which a
man might poilt is > Fabius fought, conquered
and returned to Rome, to preside in the election
of the new Conluls, and there appear circum
stances which iliow, that the great zeal for him
was chiefly ariftocratical. The firlt Centuries
all ariftocratics, continued him. Appius Claudius'
of consular dignity, andfurely not one of our au
thor's " lionelt, generous, and public spirits "
nor one of his "single and plain-hearted men'"
but a warm, interelied, and ambitious man, of
fered himfelf a candidate, and employed all his
credit, and that of all the nobility, to be chosen
Consul with Fabius, lels, as he said, for his private
interest, than for the honor of the whole body of
the patiicians, whom he was determined to re
eltablifh in the poffeflion of both confulfliips.-—
Fabius declined, as the year before ; but all the
nobility surrounded his feat, and intreatedhim to
be sure; but to do what ? Why, to rescue the
consulship from the dregs and filth of the people
to restore the dignity of consul, and the order of
patricians, to their ancient ariftocratical splendor
Fabius appears, indeed, to have been urged into
the office of Consul; but by whom > By the pa
tricians, and to keep out a plebeian. The Senate
and people were checking each other; ftrugo]i nt r
together for a point, which the patricians ?ould
cany in no way but by violating the laws, and
forcing old Fabius into power. The Tribunes
had once given way, from the danger of the
rimes ; but this year they were not so disposed
The patricians were still eager to repeat the ir
regularity; but Fabius, although he declared he
should be glad to aflift them in obtaining two pa
trician Consuls, yet he would not violate the law
so far as to nominate himfelf; and no other pa
trician had interest enough to keep out L. Vo
* Ouid fc jam fenern, ac perfunftum laboribus, laborumque
p-smns, folhcitarent ? Ncc coipofis, nee animi v.gorem rcma
ncrc eundum, et fortunam ipfam vcrcri, ne cui dcorum niinia
j®m inle fortuna, rt cdnitSiuior, ijuarfi velint humanae res vidca
lur. Et f ; - gloria: feniorura fuccrcvi®, ct ad jloriam l'uam cou
lurgentes alios latum ad fpiccif. Kcc honors mag, ws viiis lortif
fimis, Rome, ncc honoribus decfle fortes vires. Liv.
+ J' 1 " "gi leges, non legcre.
lumnious, the plebeian, who was chosen with Ap
pius Claudius. Thus farts and events, which
were evidently created by a struggle between two
orders in a balanced government, are adduced as
proofs in favour of a government with only one
order, and without a balance.
Such severe frugality, fucli perfetft difintereft
ednels in public characters, appear only, or at
leait molt frequently, in ariitocratical govern
ments. Whenever the constitution becomes de
mocratical, such austerities disappear entirely, or
at least lose their inliuence, and the I'ufFrages of
, the people; and if an unmixed and unchecked
people ever choose such men, it is only in times
I °f diltrefs anddanger, when they think no others
can save them : As soon as the danger is over,
they negle<ft these, and choose others more plau
sible and indulgent.
1 here is so much pleasure in the contempla
tion of these characters, that we ought by no
means to forget Camillus. This great character
was never a popular one : To the Senate and the
patricians he owed his great employments, and
seems to have been feleCited for the purpose of
opposing the people.
I he popular leaders had no aversion, forthem
felves or their families, to public honors and of
fices, with all their burthens. In 358, P. Lici
liius Calvus, the firft of the plebeian order who
had ever been elected military Tribune, was about
to be re-elected, when he arose and said, " Ro
" mans, you behold only the lhadow of Licinius ;
" my ltrength, hearing, memory, are all gone,
" and the energy of my mind is no more: Suffer
" me to present my son to you (and he held him
" by the hand) the living image of him whom
you honored firft of all the plebeians with the
" office of military Tribune. I devote him, edu
" cared in my principles, to the commonwealth,
' aud (hall be much obliged to you, if you will
" grant him the honor in my stead." Accord
ingly the son was elected. The military Tri
bunes conducted with great ardor and bravery
but were defeated, and Rome was in a panic ve
ry artfully augmented by the patricians, to give
a pretext lor taking the command out of plebeian
bunds. Camillus was created Dictator by the Se
nate, and carried on the war with such prudence
ability, and success, that he saw the richest city
ot Italy, tnat of Veii, was upon the point of falling
into his hands, withimmenfe spoils. He now felt
himfelf embarralled : If he divided the spoils
with a sparing hand among the soldiery, he would
draw upon hnnfelf their indignation, and that of
the plebeians in general; if he distributed them
too generously, he should offend the Senate • for
with all the boasted love of poverty of those times!
the Senate and people, the patricians and pie!
beians as bodies, were perpetually wrangling
about spoils, booty, and conquered lands ; which
further ffiews, that the real moderation was con
fined to very few individuals or families.
(To be continued.)
c/VAdßisrfOri #/"M< Methodist Epi/copa/Churc/i,
S I T R THI ?Kl ' IDtNT o{ the United STATES.
WE, the Bishops of the Method,ft Episcopal Church, humbly
St« ' » r Ulme ° L OUI Soclct y collectively in these United
Sutes, to express to you the warm f.elings of our hearts, and our
ot't he fe'fi t w!" 1 °" yo r r appo ' ntm 1" the Prel,dentfh,p
oj these States.—We are conscious, from the signal proofs you
" C i ITZ S J VC "' yOU are a lr,cnd ol mankind ; and under
this established iaea, place as full a confidence in your w.fdom
berti'« h- V h I°' K prefcrVa r t,on of thofc clvll religious li
p' V" . i been transmitted to us by the Providence of
God and the glorious Revolution, as we believer, ought to be re
poled in man. ° UCK "
,HC mofl L grateful ra,lsfaa; ™ from the humble
and entire dependence on the great Governor of the Univerfc
which you hav* repeatedly expressed, acknowledging him the
source of every ble ftng, and particularly of ,he most excellent
Constitution of these States, which ,s a, present the admiration of
tatmT a' Th may its great exemplar for imi
ation . And hence wc enjoy a holy expectation, that you will
always prove a faithful and impartial patron of genuine, vital re
l.gion-the grand end of our creation and present probationary
exiffence. And we promise you our fervent prayers to the throne
a L S "?. r ' ' h " Almighty may endue you with all the graces
nd gifts of his holyfpirit that may enable vou to fill up your
important station, to his glory, the good of his church, thehao
pinefsandprofpentyof the Unite! States, and the wcltetf
Signed in behalf of the Methodist Episcopal Church.
THOMAS COKE^
»t V FRANCIS ASBURY
New-York, May 29, 1789.
To which The President was pleafcd to give the following
t t ti anlwer: 6
one Bishops oj(he Method,st Episcopal Church in the Vihtcd
gentlemen, ° J "
pic. 111 pM suing this line of conduct ho je b v fh" affiftTnc^°"f
fennmlr ,^d ft p^ f t S t^n' , ; i rt r o n / ~ « »
knowfedgflneinj of the eratGpvet
and in proieffions of support to a mft civ'.l Invr ' '' eUlm ' cr, -->
mentioning that, I trijft the Deouil nfn • i ernmenf . After
demean themselves as good citi '~ir will v' who
vinced, ,h« 1 shall Sfe W b'"COn
pati on of genuine, vital ,ci . i uft a!^re ' ? nJ ,m P«ual
1 iu P- «he pJi&TTS
ing your prayers at the throne of grace for me ,u ~
wife implore the divine benediflions on yourlclves,„J llkt "
giou. community. G. WASHWgTo^''"
[The following Ast, being the firft: which has ..(M .u,, •
branches of the National Legislature, received Yh. Sf *''
dent's aflent on Mondaylaft.] «tsi-
An ACT to regulate the T,me ard Manner of Uminijlermg certiia
BE it traded ty the Senate and Rem* e*(nt*ti If*
On,ted States of America, in Congress ajfenbled, That thecal
affir inaiion required by the iixth article of the Constitution nf.l"'
L uited States, shall be administered in thefoim followln.
wit: "'i A. B. do folemnlv swear, or affirm fjj tht c r
that I will fupportthe Conft.tution of the United Suu™ Y $
laid oath, or affirmation, (hall be administered within ihrf, /
after the palling of this a£t, by any one member ot il > S ""
the PieliJent ot the Senate, and by lum to all the membtlT'
to the Secretary; and by the Speaker of the Houleofß f «U
tatives to all the mcmuers who have not taken a similar ™1, t
£l if .°i 4 P artlc " lar ."fulution of thefaid House. and to',fee
Clerk. And in cafe of the absence of any member from the r
v,ce of either House, at the time preferred tor ukCthe r'i
oath or affiimation, the fameffiall be administered to such t
ber, when he shall appear to take hi, feat m ™-
And be "fu,there,.ailed, That at the -firft session of Conrref,
afier every general election of rrprefenta.ives, the oath or aft™
ation aforefaid ffial.be admin,ffercd by any'one mX o l£
House of Reprefentattves to the Speaker, and by him to all *
members preient, and to the Clerk, previous to entering on a£
other bufmefs; and to themembers who ffiall afterwards apW
previous to tak.ng their feats. The Pref.de,n of the Sena" fc
the time being (hall also adm.nifter the fa,d oath or affirmation,
each Senator, who (hall hereafter be elefled, previou, to histak
tng his (eat. And many future cafe of a President of th- Senate
be a°H 7' T. Ct l '"u hf h ' d oalb or affimation, the fame shall
A 2Tw-'t b y any one of the membe.sof the Senate
uffl , /Ui I r' J ),at,he members of the several State
legislatures, at the next feffior.s of the (aid legislatures refpeSi"'
ly, and all executive and judicial officers of the several State- who
have b.en heretofore chosen or appointed, or who (hall be chofea
then be'in offi fh n' i Y°f next ' 3nJ wh °
' 'r C thin onemonth thereafter, takcthefarrt
oath or affirmation, except where tl.ey (hall have taken it before
of .h ST/ . J any person aul horifed by the law
the Stateinwhich (uch office (hall beholden, to admin,Oer
oaths And the member of the feveaal State legislatures, and all
exec,itive and judicial officers ot the several States, who (hall be
eholen or appmnted after the said firft day of August, (hall, before
they proceed to execute the duties of their refpe&ixe offices, take
the foregoing oath or affirmation, which frail be administered by
h™r'l°, n °J P er^ ns ', who by the law of the State shall be ac
thorifed to .dm.mfte r the oath of office, and the person or perfom
a oath hertb y quired to be taken, (hall cause
hv .Z'f ° r Tl' lC r ,h L CrCot to bc madc f-me manner a,
And be "further enadid, That all officers appointed or hereafter
hrtvf aP , P ° mt i Und L Cr the au thority of the United States, Ih.II,
affirm I 7 , , rcf P eaiv( ' «he lame oath or
IhofhTk L 'I' 4 , administered by the p. rton or perlon.
refnrA " b y law to admmifter to such officers their
■ m°a r ° ,° Ilc1 lc , e : aßd such (hall incur the fame
faiW I " ft " llbe * m P°fcd by law in c>(e of
failure n taking their oaths of office
AndU "further tnadei, That the.Secretary of the Senate, and
, of ' he " < " lfe , of Repi efentatives, for the time being, (hall,
»Vk ff" 8 E oath or affir mation aforefaid, eaehtake
-n oath or affirmatlou, ,n the words following, tow,t. " lA.B.
Secjetary of the Senate 01 Clerk of the House of Reprefenta
,, (l ? r " may bc ) of thc Uni,cd States of America, do
(i lolemnly swear or affirm, that I willtruly and faithfully dif
■' and S abiHi-- U " CS fa ' d ° ff ' Ce ' t0 the beflofm l knowW 6 5
Jredsrick Augustus Muhlenuerg,
Speaker oj the House of Jieprefentativts.
John Adaks, V tcc-Frtfidert of the United States,
~. , „ And President of the Saatt.
Approved—Jnne-ift, j 7 Bg. J J
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
NATIONAL MONITOR No. VII.~
1 o think, and to judge araifs, even concerning
tie ways of Providence, is the lot of our iniper
feo: nature."
A people that enjoys for a /tries of years, the lltf
>'"S i °J pence, and good government, will cotifidtr
e ~ L "- r J •■vent that threatens their tranquility, as the
at ir, tger of misfortune : without conftderiug wit
er t eir prtfent situation is the mofl eligible in which
>ey can oe placed ; -without etiquiriug -whether their
future profpefts do not warrant, and call for public
ex irtion and interprife, lulled into a jlatt of fupinenef,
an torpidity, by the charms oj indolence, they -will, if
not titer informed than the generality of mankind
as eenin all past ages, rather fuffer the encroach
ments oj arbitrary power, and loss of freedom, than
the novelty of experiment, to extend their
Iphers oj adion and open a boundless prcfpeCl of felici
ty, to present and future generations .—The late
American war, may be considered in this point of light;
eK J°y tn & 'OjnejUc east and happinefs 9 we engaged in it
with relufiance; unparellelled injuries /lowly rcufed
USiO a L f o,l > an d while clouds and thick darkness re jit A
'" 1 ' 'IF ue > " Me thought that all was againf} us: hit,
Itnce the designs of Providence artfully disclosed, by
' P Lac ?, liberty, and independence of America:
w - r e especially when those designs are contemplated
n ' ne J cene > tlat await our country, under the admi
"J > c...0n of the new constitution. —JVe may -well ex
c aim in the language oj inspiration, " our enemies
igned us evil: but God meant all these things
ror our good". c.
« S Z* hs t UT ' l > m pid Stream, tuhen foul uith Pains,
Upufhing torrents and defending rains,
Z o '}? "M clear, and as it runs' refines,
~nn I dc S r '" the floating mirtorfhines—
«JJ eac/l f 1 ""-'" 'baton its bolder grows,
" d " neuj Heaven in its fan bosom fihows!"
neu, rIAI S * B j SCJiIP Jl ONS S or " :e "COURIER DE BOSTON" 4
ceived n A'/ u"j at Lofton Ir. the French Language, are re
ur iverf ,I' 9 ' Unt ■ [The utility of a paperin atoo!f
auirr T? n^u^ e not be hinted to those. who wish to ac
quire the French tongue.]
FENNO, No. 9, MaJden*
i-ANE, neat the Oswico-Market, New-York.