Sc.
TH£ TABLET. No. XX.
u fcVjliver romantic it may firvm, it is very true, that
there are a fort of people who take great pains to be
.ji tt
TTis vprrby of remark that men, who have no
-1 thint to do,feldom have any leisure; while those,
tin are in Stood earnest engaged in bufinefs,have
b "
aufe they attend to their own bulinefs, and no
'hhc eife; the former want leisure because they do
' tateud to their own business, but to every thing
lfe I have among my acquaintance a character
If each of these defoliations ; one of them is na
med Attentus, the other Übiquitus. It hap
pened the other morning they both called on me,
nearly at the fame time.
Attsntus informed me, that having a kttle
leisure he had waited on me to adjust an account
that lay between us. He tarried but a few minutes,
proceeded deliberately, and accompli shed what
he came for.—Ubi qui tus ran up to the door to
acquaint ue with the great hurry he was in, and
to analogize for his not being able to make me a
vifrt; he continued with me upwards of an hour,
without having any business, and spent molt ot
the time in lamenting hi* amazing haste. —It may
not be ainifs to observe that Ar rENTUi is large
ly concerned in mercantile affairs, and is an ex
teniive dealer in Weft-India goods. No person
ever managed his concerns with more method and
prudence; and by doing every thing as it ought
to be done, and finiihing one thing before he be
oins another, he is at no time in hurry and con
fufion, and often finds moments of leisure and
relaxation.
Übiq-TJITOS, on the other hand, though Ins
whole life is spent in rvifles, takes hold even of
trifles at the wrong end ; engages in many trivial
things at once, and finiflies no part of what he
undertakes. He seems to have no determinate
object of purfuir, and his friends are at a loss to
conje&ure how heemploys himfelf; while he is in
cetiantly complaining of the prefure and anxiety,
vhich are occalioned by the multiplicity of his
affairs. The reader will form a clearer idea of
the difference of these characters, if I relate ex
adlythe conrerfation that palled the other morn
ing.
Attentus calledjuft at nine o'clock, and found
meat breakfaft. After informing me what lie
wiihed, he requested me ro take my breakfaft
leisurely, as he could, without inconvenience,
wait a few minutes. I rose from the table and
handed him the account I had stated, and men
tioned that he could examine it, at his leisure.—
" ltis roypradke," laid he, " to complete every
thing of this kind on the lpot." He loon went
through the examination, made his remarks, and
was again at leisure. I enquired of him if he
knew how the wind flood, and whether the Bri
tilh Packet would fail that day ? " I know very
well," said he, " how the wind is, because I am
looking for a veflel from the Weft-Indies ; but I
knowncthing of the Packet, as I do not deal at
Europe. It runs in my mind, however, that 1
heard somebody speaking of the matter ; but who
the person was, or what he said, 1 do not remem
ber, as 1 never charge my memory with what
does not relate to my own affairsln examining
fame papers 1 was rather flower than common,
and desired Attentus to exenfe me, as I was at
the Theatre the evening before, and had not ta
kenmy usual hours of sleep. " Theatre," cried
he, " are the players in town ; how long have
they been here ?" Six weeks replied I. " Have
they indeed," said Attentus, " I never heard
a word of it before." But, continued I, do you
not read the newspapers ? " I take the newl'pa
pers," answered he, " but I only perufefucli parts
ofHiem as give information about my particular
line of business." It happened in the course of
co»>erfation,tliat I alked him if he had attended
the debates of Congress. He told me he had once
been iif the gallery, that his neighbours should
'lot fay he was an Antifederalift ; but that he
thought the business would go on as well without
his coiapany, as with it, and he should attend no
fore. If you have leisure, said I, you should be
P r e!ent at some of the debates, as they concern
the mercantile interefl, who in the firlt instance
pay the duties. "As to leisure," said he,
1 have some, but my attending at the galleiy
will neither make the duties more or less. I ihall
nd out what they are fact enough. The old du
ties were laid without ray knowledge, but I soon
d people after me to put me in mind of the bu-
Hiefs. 13ehdcs the members of Congress will not
a y tn my store and watch for customers while 1
f® in their gallery" Attentus was aboutleav
trgme, when I mentioned that I would walk a
'* way with him. " Well," said he, "if you
le going my v«y I have no objection." Just as
SATURDAY, June 20, 1789.
we were at the door, Übiquituj came up and in
terrupted my walk.
He took me by tlie hand, and with a perplexed
countenance, said he never was in fucli an hurry
in his life, that he could scarce ilay to apologize
for not flaying longer. However, while he was
making these complaints, he followed me fairly
into the house. I urged him to take a chair and
tarry a few minutes. " No," replied he, 1 could
not wait ten minutes, if you would give me ten
guineas. I have every thing to do tliis morning.
It was my intention to have wrote half a dozen
letters before this hour of the day, but I ihall not
write one before dinner ; and after all, shall not
find leisure ro hear the debates of Congress." 1
continued to urge him to take a feat and recover
a little from his fatigue ; but he l'eemed offended
at the request, and fell into a run of conversation
that I thought he never would have finiihed. He
held one of the buttons of my coat with his left
hand,that my impatience fliould not force i»e from
him ; and extended his right arm, that he miglu
the more emphatically oxprefs the necessity of
leaving me immediately. As nearly as I can re
colletft, the following are a few of the remarks
and queries he made : " Have you heard oj the ar
rivals at Philadelphia from the Eajl-Indies ? There
was an excellent play lajl night, but I could not find
time to attend. Do you not think the address jromthe
Methodifl Clergy toThe PrefidcHt, was modejtly done ?
The Bank I am told are /paring of their difcouuts now
adays. Who do they talk of as Chief JuJlice of the
United States ? 1 fear I Jhall lose a beaver hat ref
bc Cling the ijftte of the elettion for governor. What a
perphxity it is to be so hurried ; you fee my hair is not
combed, and I suppose my barber will call Jeveral
times before 1 can be ready for him. My letters are
unanfweredfor a long while pajl." But, enquired
I, do you not notice your letters as soon as you
receive them I ArTENTUStellsmeheneverleaves
any thing undone, after the proper time of doing
it. " Well hemay," replied Übiquitus, "for
he has nothing to do but to take care of his bufi
r.efs. The cafe is quite otherwise with me. I
have a whole chest of pape;s lying in heaps and
confufion, and I do not even recolletft the con
tents of half of them." I began to be weary
of standing, andasmy friend could not tarry long
enough to fit down, 1 proposed a walk byway ot
relief to myfelf. Übiquitus joined in the pro
posal, and as he had much business abroad, and I
had none, I left it with him to diredl the course
of our rambles. "We will go," said he, " Hop !
1 have fomany places to visit I hardly know which
to call at firft. Upon the whole I will accompany
you wherever you please." My walk did not
give the relief I cxpe<fted, for flop
ped to speak with so many persons in the streets,
that I was almost as still, as before 1 left the liouf e ;
and lam not certain I should have escaped from
my confinement for several hours, if a gentleman
liadnot invited Übiquitus to go with liimtoa
billiard table. This fuggeflion so pleased him,
that he took his leave of me, and I did not ima
gine I should fee him again that day. However
it happened and myfelf were to dine
at the fame place. I called at the hour of invi
tation, and none of the company were miffing but
ÜBiqui i us. When dinner had waited for him
nearly half an hour, he came in so extremely ex
hausted with the fatigues of the morning, that I
feared he had loft his appetite. He cxpreflcd a
little regret that the company had waited for him,
but obfe7ved, that they knew so well how difficult
it was for him to be exa<sl to his appointments,
that no apology was requisite. I perceived, how
ever, that his hurry did not prevent his doing
justice to the dinner and wine, and indeed before
evening he seemed well fatisfied with the position
he had taken.
SKETCH OF THE POLITICAL STATE OF AMERICA.
[ Continued fiom our UJl.]
IN my last number I ventured a few general
observations on the siatureof some of the execu
tive departments, and now proceed to suggest
some further ideas on the fubjed: of a secretary
of domestic affairs and commissioner of trade, to
be permanently established at the feat of govern
veinment; whose duty it lhall be to collect into
one focus all possible information, si om the va
rious parts of the continent, which immediately
or virtually refpeifts agriculture, manufactures,
and commerce, those pillars of national profpeii
ty—and towards this design he lhall correfponcl
with the custom-house officers in the different
States, and from them obtain accurate details of
the amount of our exports, and imports, and
their fpecific qualities—the number of American
veflcls employed in our commerce, with the num
ber of men navigating them—their rates of ton-
\_FubliJbed on W edntfday and Saturday, j
itage, and the nature of the trade they canyon ;
alio how many foreign veflels, and their channels
of trade :—And in estimating the value of our
imports, not to include the charge ot duties —
they being paid by the internal confamer, ought
not to Hand as a debit against the nation—but the
duties on manufactures exported may be in
cluded in the credit, being paid by the foreign
consumer :—This officer will also pay a nice at
tention to the increase of the raw materials and
progress of the manufactures of the country —
ascertaining what each State annually produces
and manufactures, and what proportion the raw
materials of home growth bear to thole import
ed—and be able, well to discern what species ot
manufactures can in our present state be with ad
vantage promoted, and without injury to other
interests of the community —for this end he will
encourage the introduction of machines so bene
ficial in a country having but few hands—he will
also notice the population of the United States,
their annual confuinption, and the ratio of lup
ply and demand—he will devise means to im
prove our agriculture—and promote our naviga
tion—form plans for failing our vefl'els least ex
pensively—thereby aififting our ■carrying trade—
lie will explore the various channels for the
extension of our commerce, &c. —When we
consider the many difficulties which have at
tended the conftru&ion of our revenue sys
tem, for want of proper information from the
several States in the Union, on many subjeCts in
cluded in this plan —when we view the advantage
that mult result from having persons officially
poflefled of such an accurate knowledge in the
general ftateof the community, as to be able on
a proposition for levying any imposts or other tax
es, to determine how particular interests will be
etfeCted thereby—when we contemplate the be
nefit of having a trial-balance of our national
trade, for correcting present and avoiding future
errors—when wc reflect on the great fpiing
which the encouragement of trade and commerce
gives to agriculture and manufactures —when ill
general we know the need of guarding the vari
ous fluctuations of the different interests in a
State—of ballancing them and directing them to
one common centre—the public good :—1 think
these united considerations will evince the pro
priety of such an establishment as above alluded
to, from the tendency it will have to communi
cate general information, to diffufe national
views, eftabliffi national sentiments, to promote
national interests, and to produce that concen
tration, lyltein, and harmony, which must form
the basis of our country's future prosperity and
liappinefs.
In respeCt to a land-office, I have my doubts of
the principle \\ hich in a degree leads to the necel
fyy of such an establishment, viewing any encou
ragement to emigrate in the present state of our
population, as buildh.g up the interior part of
this country at the expence of the atlantic settle
ments, as totally opposed to an early attempt for
manufacturing, as producing an undue propor
tion of certain interests, and being at present of
no essential advantage to" the progress of agricul
ture; but it has been here objected, that the spi
rit of emigration cannot be well flopped, or great
ly checked—this being granted, it will be doubt
less most politic to methodize the settlement of
this western country, and pursue every means to
encreafe their future attachment and obedience
to the present government.
AMERICANUS.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
In the Houfc ojthcUNITED STATES.
Tuesday, June »6, 1789.
[A SKETCH of the DEBATE on the BILL foreflab-
HJhing the EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT for
FOREIGN AFFAIRS, -which took place on Tues
day la],L upon Mr. White'; moving to Jlrike out
the -words " to be removed from office by The
President of the United States.]
.—
Mr. White observed, that the eonftitution had provided fpe
cifically only for the removal of the Judges of the Supreme Court
—but £s it had associated the Senate with the President in the ap
pointment of officers, it was proper that the power of removal
111 the latter cafe, should be jointly exercised, as in the former.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) was in sentiment with Mr. White—heob
ferved, that one of thefetwo ideas are just, cither that The Pre
sident had the power by the eonftitution, or he had not—lf
the power is veiled in him by the eonftitution, the claufc is nuga
tory —if 't is not, the House can have no right to give it—Thisdeli
gation of powc is unconft'.tutional,agreeably to the ideaoffome
very ingenious commentators upon the fubjeft, who have avert
ed, that the Senate ffiould have a voice in the removal as well as
the appointment of officers.—The author of the pieces under the
fignatureof Publius, one of the mofl valuable performance!
extant —has fully exprefled this fentimfnt.
If the eonftitution is examined with attention, we shall find,
that no such power is direftlv or impliedly given to the Prefi
dent —the departments .of government are defined—the power*Vfrftcd in The Prefictcnt are declared—hut 110 such power as this
io pointed out—so tar trom it, the mode of removal is particular
ly fpecified, and that is upon conviction, after impeachment be
fore the Senate : As the constitution is thus express, it follows,
that this house can have no right to confer the power defignatcd
in the clause.
Th» reason for giving this power is the neccflity of removal in
cases of incapacity ; but for what cause can a man be removed
from office, but for mal-praftices or misdemeanors ? Is sickness
or ignorance a fufficient reason ? and who is to judge of incapa
city or ignorance, nnlefs by reason of either some offence is com
mitted ? In that cafe the removal is not for incapacity, but for the
offcncc, ana let me a(k for the instance of difmtflton for the former ?
This clause invests a power in The President, which will be
liable to great abuses ; for we are not always to expefl a chief
magistrate in whom such intire confidence can be placed as in the
prelent—the splendor of whose virtues, some gentlemen, appear
to befo dazzled with, as to lose fight of a proper refpeft to futu
rity. The conilitution is not calculated upon the idea of having
Hie chair always so well filled ; checks and guards are therefore
provided—this is our onlydire£lory : An officer who ia fuhjetled
to the whims of a capricious man, will be in an abject, dependent
state : a mere (lave ; what is the consequence ? we fubjeft a fellow
citizen to lose his reputation, his property, his living without a
trial; men of independent principles will be cautious of placing
themf lvesin such a situation ; as a President ifright have round
him thole who envious of the honors and emoluments of persons
in office, would be constantly intriguing and insinuating fufpici
011s to effe£l their removal.
To be removed from office without a fpecified crime, of with
out a trial is contrary to the spirit of the conilitution; is contrary
to the free sentiments of this people : Some gentlemen hare sup
posed that the present cafe is one of those to be provided for by
legislative regulations; it appears however from the foregoing ob
ligations, that the mode proposed is unconstitutional ; and upon
the whole it is evident, that as the power is not given to the Pre
sident by the conilitution, it ught not to be delegated to him.
Mr. Huntington followed Mr. Smith, and made afeweb
fervations upon " refponfibilitv," Ihewing that its importance
was principally derived from the charatler in which it was fixed
and not from the idea in itfelf considered—he wis opposed to
the clause as dangerous.
Mr. StDCWiCKadvcrted to several cases, which would render
removals from office necessary, which were not provided for by
the conilitution—and which the mode by impeachment from
the length of process, and various difficulties always realized,
■would be found totally inadequate to remedy—he pointed out
the necclity of speedy and prompt decision, when a man had be
come odious and unpopular in his office, without committing a
positive offcnce when his talents were found deficient, and there
was an incurable negligence and indolence in his attention to
the duties of his office—when his political principles were become
odious to the pesple, and his talent>, instead of being exerted for
the public good, were direrted toprofecuting fchemesof persona 1
aggrandizement, in such and similar cases, it would be necessary
to adopt something more summary than the flow, desultory pro
cess by impeachment.
Upon the principle of gentlemen, opposed to the clause the
Senate must be always in feflion—This he hoped would not take
place—but in the absence of this body, what was to be done?
mud the public interest be {acrificed? must justice be delayed, !>v
keeping an unworthy officer in his poll, till the Senate could be
collected from the extremities of this continent ?
The danger of abuses had been enlarged upon; but was their
110 danger on that account ffom the Senate? the argument in Ins
opinion, applied with equal force—and the ptiwer in the hands
of a body chosen from various parts of the union, under the lm
preffion of various and different principles, was as liable to abufc
if not more so, than if placed in the hands of the man, whom the
united voice of the people should call to the office of chief ma
gistrate.
Mr. Madison coincided with Mr. Smith, so far as thai we
ought to adhere llri&ly to the spirit and meaning of the conilitu
tion—He was however opposed to the motion for striking out the
clause.—The preftni quellion was considered in various points
of view ; it therefore came properly before the legislature to de
cide upon it •„ If the proposed clause ismerelya declaration of the
conilitution, it tan do no harm ; If it relates to a doubtfui part, it
lays with the whole legislature to give an explanation : And if the
conilitution is totally silent, Congress may use its discretion ;
The power is a high and important one ; and therefore a decision
merits a tull and tree difcuflion of both fides of the quellion :
When it is considered, that the chief magistrate is to be felc£led
from the mafsof the citizens, by the united fuffrages of three mil
lions of people ; notwithstanding the weakness incident to a po
pular election, he could not suppose that a vicious or bad chara£ler
would be chosen.
If there is a country upon earth in which an effectual fecuritv
is provided against the elevation of an unworthy man to the firft
feat in government, it is the United States. It is evidently the po
licy of the Conilitution, that great responsibility ffiould be lodged
iri The President, with refpeft to the executive department ; but
tlus responsibility is abated or deftioyed so saras the officers to
whom the duties of tlus department are committed, are not ame
i.aole to him : Should the Senate bealTociated with The President
in the power of removal, the officers would very probably reft the
retaining their places upon the favor of the Senate, in preference
to that of The Prtfident, and would accordingly consider them
ielves as accountable principally to the Senate ; in that cafe all exe
cutive responsibility would be impracticable, or the exportation
ot it, unjull.
The officers may by connecting themselves with the Senate in
a cabal againil The President, lay a foundation for perpetual dis
cord, and in that way effectually deflroy his responsibility, and
defeat Che expectation of the people from the inltitution of an in
dependent executive branch.
From an attentiveexamination of the Conilitution upon its true
principle, it is at lcaft problematical whether the House is not
tied down to the conftruflion adopted in this clause of the bill.
So tar as particular powers are inverted in different and particu
lar departments, a different appropriation of those powers is not
warranted by the constitution ; it will therefore be highly im
proptr to blend thofepowers: Iftheexecutive powers are invest
ed 111 The Prefident,the legislature may not interfere in the exercise
ot those powers.
No gentleman will fay, that the judicial power should be veil
ed in anybody, other than that defeated by the constitution •
The executive power is in the hands of The President, and is
there any particular exceptions to this general principle ? There is
an exception : The conilitution hasdeclared. that in the appoint
ment ot officers, the Senate Ihall have a voice, unless in cases of
interior officers, the law fhail othrrwife direfl.
Has Congress a rightto extend this exception? No. Ifthe
constitution has in general vefttd all executive powers in one
branch, the legislature has noright todiminiffi or modify them
any farther than is expressly provided by the constitution.
Trie quellion resolves itfelf into this : Is the power of difplac
mg oiii'fii an execufve, or legislative power ? I conceive (said he)
thar. no powercan be more compleady executive than thatofap
poinung, infoefting and eontrouling those, who have the im
mediate admmiftration of the laws. If the conilitution had tint
provided, that in the appointment of officers, The President
lhould have the advire and coivfent of the Senate ; would it not
beevident that he being poffefled of the executive powers would
have a rightto appoint them ? Could Congress in this cafe, have a
right to fay that the coucurrence of the Senate Ihould be necessary
in such appointments ? Molt certainly not : And if not how can
it be said with propriety, that Congress has a right to sffociate
thcfc.bianchts, in cider to dismiss them.
This claufc may therefore be considered as explanatory of the
conflitution, and if theforegoing reasoning is just, it comports with
its spirit and meaning ; but if it is a doubtful point, it is the du
ty of the legislature to decide upon it.
Mr. Vining observed, that he was sorry that this queflion
was again made the fubjeft of difcuflion.
The committee who brought in the bill, (of which he had the
honor to be one) thought themselves obliged by the former deci
sion of the House to inlert the clause now objected to : TheHoufe,
(said he) has determined that the power of removing officers, (hall
be lodged where the responsibility resides : The circuitous rout of
impeachments has been well pointed out by the gentleman from
Maffacl>trfcK,s, (Mr. Sedgwick) the flow, dilatory and inefficient
procefsby th>at mode, is dcmonflrated by universal experience.
The dafe of Warren Hallings is an eternal itigma upon the fyilem
of'lmpeachments : What delays ! what suspension of the public
service !
Suppofea fecretaryof foreignaffairs in this situation :Thc forms
of a full trial ; the collecting of evidences ; the charges and ar
guments of the parties, and a deliberate decition, may perpetu
ate the bufincfs for years.
It certainly could not be in the contemplation of the Senate to
take away the responsibility of The President: Incapacity is not
impeachable : Mull the public service fufler by depriving The
President of the power to remove an officer thus cii umftanced ?
I trull, Sir, the clause will not be (Iruck out*
Mr. Whir e supported his motion—He considered impeach
ments unnecessary to be applied to upon all occasions : They were
proper as they refpefted officers who were to hold their places
during good behavior : these were The President, Vice-President,
and the Supreme Judges ; but as the principle, that the power of
removal ought to reil with the power that appointed did not ap
ply to the two firfl, there was no mode of removal for them, but
by impeachment before the Senate.
He had no idea that such an officer as the Minister of Foreign
Affairs (hould not be removed but by impeachment : It might be
highly inexpedient to have the reasons of his difiniflion publicly
known : In that cafe, The President, with advice of Senate, might
have power to remove him without afligning any cause : The con
flitution implied this, as it provided that the Judges only Ihould
hold their places during good behavior.
He differed from his colleague in the principle which he had
advanced, That the whole executive power was vested exclusively
in The President in all cases where the Conflitution had not fpeci
fied an exception : The Conllitution had given the Senate a voice
in the appointment of officers, and they ccrtalnly had a power to
dilmifs from office.
It had been urged, that the power could be more fafely entrust
ed with The Prendent ; but the House was bound to adhere to
the Conflitution, that prefetched certain limits, which the legifla
turecould not excecd : No officer could be legally dismissed with
out a trial ; upon the clause in debate, an officer might be retained
in office, contrary to the sentiments of the Lcgiflature.
To obviate the difficulties which it had been suggested would
arifeupon the plan which he thought the conflitution pointed out,
he supposed that The President might be invested with the power
of a temporary suspension and appointment of officers in the recess
of the Senate ; but anabfolute power for those purposes cannot be
given confidently with the Conllitution.
Mr. Boudinot was in favor of the clause; he observed, That
much had been said upon the fubje£l; but its importance was so
great, as rendered a full discussion necessary. and could not be con
sidered as time loft. It the power contended for, could in the
least infringe the Conflitution, or the rights ot the several branches
of the Legislature, he would moll heartily oppose it. But the clause
he considered as a legislative conftru£lion of the Conllitution, which
it was highly necessary to fettle at the present time. Nothing can
be (hewn to prove that removals are to take place only by im
peachments. 1 he reasoning of thole who contend for the power's
being invefled in 1 he President, does not conclude against the re
medy by impeachment ;it only proves that there is another mode
provided in the Conllitution.
It is proper and necessary that the power of removal should re
udc somewhere ; but diis power does not prevent impeachments of
any officer, however protested by the favor of him in whom that
power is vested. Ihe Conflitution fays, that an officer shall be
removed by impeachment; but it does not fay, that he shall not
be removed withoutimpeachment: The Conflitution does not fay,
that that shall be the only mode ; It has given the Senate a voice
in appointing; but this by no means implies a right of removing.
Suppose the President (hould complain to the Senate of the mifcon
dutfc of an officer, what would be the consequence, if the Senate
Ihould take upon themselves to be judges ? Would they not call
upon the accused to Hate the reasons ol his condua ? Would not
such an mveftigation place the President in a situation inferior to
the Senate ? And Ihould the Senate decide in favor of the officer,
what would The President's situation then be ?
He considered the Senate as the only security and barrier between
the House and the President, and in this view, as a Court of Judi
cature, to operate as a check between them. This security ought
to be in a situation always to be appealed to, and to guard against
his mifconduft: If the Senate is not this independent body, there
I j°° r< " leltto the House :If the President was unduly attach
ed to an officer, who was obnoxious to the people, and was deter
mined to support him ;if in consequence ofthe public clamor, he
Ihould be compelled to bring the matter before the Senat , and
they mould decline reinoviug him—would they be unbiassed and
unprejudiced to hear the impeachment that ffiould be made by the
House ? They would be improper judges, having pre-judged and
pledged themselves to acquit the offender: The fame difficulty
might occurin an attempt to impeach the President for refufin K to
dilmifs an unfaithful and odious officer.
In cales oi lickncfs orincapacity, if the President is not inverted
with apower of removal, will the people submit to such officers?
Divest the Piefidcnt of this power, and you deltroy his responsi
bility : We ought not to leave this matter to the flow operations
of law : The government in this cafe would fuffer an interregnum-
We mull leave this responsibility with The President, or we fhali
cnectually defeat the operation of the Conflitution.
Mr Smith (S. CO in reply observed, That gentlemen on the
opposite fide ol the queflion were not confident with themselves.
Some contended that the power of removal was t»iven by the Con
flitution ; others that this House ought to give it ; the queflion
therefore recurred, either the Couftitution has given the power to
the President when it is unnecessary; or it has not given it, in
which cafe it is improper for this House to do it. Gentlemen
have that it is the duty of the Legislature to conflrue this
point ; but this House has no right to expound the Conflitution—
neither hat the Senate : It will be an infringement of the rights of
the Juaiciary ; If one House has this right, the other is equally en
titled ton, and on a queflion in which each was concerned, they
would fee with different eyes, and disagree in their expositions.
Much mifchtef has anfen in the several States froth legislative con
itrucli ns of their Constitutions. It appears to me (Mr. Smith
tj Urt r? r rvc "') House has no more right to foveft the
President with this power, than we have to invert oui selves with it
The mode of impeachment for crimes willnotbe fotedious and
dilatory as some gentlemen seem to suppose : There will be 1.0
juries in such cases ; and to be proteaed from the summary modes
ln foreign despotic countries, is the glorious privilege ef free
men. G' ntlemen have said that the Conllitution makes no pro
vision for cases of delirium, incapacity, &e. let the law then pro
vide tor such cases. The power contended for is not drawn from
precedent; there is no such power given by the State Constitutions
upon the principles of which, the fyilem under which we are now'
deliberating is founded. Mr. Smith concluded by adverting to
several hiflorical faas—and by observing that the forms of law
were deftgn-d to secure the rights of the fubjeQ, and might prove
highly necessary to -uard a oehiving odicei fiom iniultice and
popular p'.irenzy. J >
Mr. Ge» ry was opnoftd to the clause— fie futnnf J ,
invcft a power >.i the President to annul the most cifcntia a ?
of the Conftuution : He thought that if it was considered j.„
iy a quclt.on ot expediency, there was danger of uiakin. a
in the conftuution ; if it ,s a conftitutioual quelf'.on X,r„ !
of expediency should be abandoned. He was for a ffrift ]
rence to the constitution ; lie conceived that no conftruftl' ,
that, would warrant delegating s uch a power to tiie I'refT ,
It was conceded by fomc gentlemen in favour of the clauf I :
the conftuution was not definite upon the fuUft auj if ,h, 1
a aouLt, it did not allow the liberty ofadifcretiondryconlJffi!!'
Mr. Ames observed, that every question which touches the cm'
ftitutiou is a fenous question : In order to obtain the ..H. „„
which are to be expetfed from the conftuution, powers i»jf L
S^ td ' A. To ,? U ? rd a s ainft abuses, checks are provided ■ Than
officer (hould be removed', when the reasons which ave ,T
his appointment, no longer ex,ft, will not be d.fpu,e°d •h„ *
question is, how this is to be done ? There is no roveh'J.
which the officeis hold their places during good behaviour • Th!
officers of the judiciary, from the nature and peculiar delicacvnf
their trust, were formed into a diftinfl branch, and h u ;dl;
°k d S rj"" that , te,mre i but ,n rc fp c « to othery, acting i n aid <rf
the Prefideut, who were appointed upon differed principles ]„*
for different purposes, it is neccifary that thev ftould hold'th,,,
places during pleasure : The confidence which the Mverrm™.
has in the virtues and abilities of an officer, (houid be the ml
giound of his appointment, and the only bond of conrteftion J
tween him and his principal; when that confidence ceases rk
power under whofedireaon he acts, fnoul deertainly have6,U
to displace him. ' rr
There may be numerous and various caufcs of removal which
do not amount to a crime : If it is admitted that officers ought
to be ailmiiled when their continuance operates to the injury of
government, whether innocent or not of any crime, the onlv
queltion then is, how and by whow they shall bedifplaced ? Im
peachments are not the only mode to be resorted to. Jn the Bri"
tifh government officers are removed immediately when thev be
can no longer lender fercice to the public-
V\ hile the forms of impeachment are preparing, the mifchict ir.av
be done : It may as frequently be neceffrry to prevent as to pun.
llh crimes. The lituation and advantages of the supreme execu
live, will furnifli him with the means to deteel a villainous deli™"
before it is ripe for execution ; he might, for example, difcovcJ
in the officers of the a project lor embezzling the public
money ; some sudden and decisive remedy would in fueh cafe be
indispensable.
It is generally agreed, that removals will be a proper remedy •
the quellion is by whom ? If the constitution is against the pow
er's, ueing vested in The President, there is an end of theenquirr
The committee ought to be clear that the constitution is opposed'
The gentleman from Virginia, (Mr. Madison) has made so many
just remarks to prove the constitutionality of this power, that it
is unnecessary to go over the ground again.
If it Ihould be granted thatthe constitution is silent, it certain,
ly comes within the cognizance of the Legislature. The powers
of the several branches ought not to be blended. The President
is the executive ; this is confeffedly an executive power : It is not
creating a new power; it already exists, and is as great now as it
will be when particularly appropriated. Officers should have
the terror of pumfhment constantly held over their heads for de
lmquency.—-The immediate influence and controul of the Presi
dent over his assistants is necessary, it is the eflence of good go
vernment. That responsibility which is so important andabfo
lutely necessary, can never be found in the Senate : besides, the
blending of diltin& powers always produces a corruption of those
powers ; for this reason the Senate should never have the power
of interfei ing : Protection for protettion in office, will be the
consequence, and a numerous train of evils more easily forefeen
than remedied.—Upon the whole, there appears to be three opi
nions upon the fubjeft before the committee, the firft is, that in
verting this power in the President, is against the constitution—the
lecond, that it is not—and the third is, that the constitution is
nlent with refpeft to it: It is therefore necessary that the House
jnould come to a declaration ; if that declaration is right, it will
become a rule ; if not, the Judges will determine it.
Mr. Li verMOKe was opposed to the clause, and urgedfeve
ral reasons for finking it out. Adjourned. '
Wednesday, June 17
In committee of the whole, upon the bill for eftablifliing the
department of foreign affairs—the question whether the clause
which inverts the President with the power of removing officeis
fnould be struck out, still under consideration, and was largely
debated ; but no decision was had upon the question when the
committee rose, and the House adjourned.
Thursday, June 18.
A petition from Robert FrazieU was read and laid on the
table.
1 he Senate sent down the bill upon tonnage, in which they have
oncurrcd with amendments—thele amendments being read, the
order of the day was called for, when the House went into a
committee of the whole ; and the fubjeft of yeflerday's debate
was resumed : The committee fat nntil near four o'clock,and then
rose without coming to a vote upon the question.
Friday, JUNE 19.
House met agreeably to adjournment, and formed itfelf into *
committee of the whole, upon the bill for cftablilhing the Depart
ment of Foreign Affairs. The motion which had been under de
atc since Tuesday, for striking out the clause which empowers
j c ' President to remove officers, still under consideration. Leng'hy
ebates ensued—sketches of which shall appear in our next. The
question upon the motion being at length taken, it parted in the
rae ß?' lve » 33 kcing in favor of retainingthe clause, and 20 against it.
The committee then proceeded in the discussion of the bill.
Mi. Benson proposed the following clause for insertion, viz.
rhat the Secretary for the Department of Foreign Affairs imme
diately after his appointment, be impowered to take into his cus
tody all the books and papers belonging tothelate Departmentot
oreign Affairs established by the United States in Congrefsaf
fembled : This clause was adopted.
The further difcullion of the bill produced some alterations and
amendments, which being completed, the committee rose, and the
c lairman made his report. The Speaker having taken the chair,
a message was received by the Secretary from the Senate, with the
import bill, informing the Honorable House that they infiftedon
°me of the amendments which they had proposed, and receded
from others.
The Secretary also informed the Honorable House, that the
committee appointed to view the rooms in the Federal Hall, had
proceeded in that business and made a partial report, which was
now sent down for concurrence. Adjourned until Monday.
[The Debates of the Hon. House oj Representatives of theUritiiStatu
upon the Clause in the Bill for eflablifhing the Department of Fort'p
Affairs, which empowers The President to remove the Officer at the W
oj that department, without advice of Senate, have been highly inteT(fl~
in i, animated, and ingenious. The galleries hqve been unusually erod
ed, notwithflanding the heat of the weather ; and the mcjl profound ottcn
tion observed. The zeal and earnejlnejs, with which the several
ers have supported the argument on both fides of the quejlion, filly '
monflrate the deep contiElion which they felt of the importance oj the
J ft. This discussion has served to unfold and explain the principle C J
the Conjlitution \ and the extreme anxiety which has beenfhcv:n to dahtrt
to its fpint and meaning, by every one of the Speakers, evinccs thit tka
all consider it as the only rule of their Faith and PraElice- in the to l l'
of their Political Exiflence.~\domestic articles.
Savanna, May 28.
a «r<i letur from Col. Maxwell to Lieut. Col.
Fijhhl'r", 'dated Mtdway ( Liberty-County) May
J < 4 Last Tuesday there was a train of Indians
Sr"for embodying the militia, »mithree small
nrties were collected on the frontiers that night,
n'n Wednesday morning, as foonas Dr. Le Conte s
neeroes turned out of the fort the Indians at
tempted to seize on them. Six fellows went out
»;th mins 5 as soon as the negroes discovered the
Indians they made back for the tort, and the
Indians'purfued them ; there were iome negroes
in the fort with arms, who, with the Doctor, si
.on t hem, whilst those who went out armed
--tacked them in the rear, which soon made
them retreat, with some loss, to a fence, where
thev kept up a heavy fire at the fort, for some
time without efFedt. They carried off three ne
oe's, Several parties of men soon got to the
Bhce but puifued without waiting to colled: a
force' fufficient to attack them. Capt. Frafer,
with a small party, came up with them on the
fide of a fwanip,which they immediately ran into,
and prevented his charging them. It appears
from the belt accounts, that there are atleait fifty
in that party. The next morning they killed
a man at a plantation of Capt. Sander's, just be
low the one which he now plants ; and on Friday
night they attacked a small guard within a mile
and a half of me, the guard beat them ofF wi th
the loss of one man killed. They carried off a
ne°ro wench and a child a small distance from the
place, stabbed the wench in several places with
a knife, scalped her, and killed the child ; the
wench has come in, but is not expected to live.
Yesterday evening, at Mr. Stephen Baker's, three
of his negroes went over the fence, who were fi
red on, and a wench killed and scalped. An
attempt to plunder was likewise made at Mr.
James Wood's on Friday, but the negroes disco
vered the lavages at a distance, and made their
cfcape. They seem to have separated into small
parties, and to be all round us. A party is to go
out to morrow morning. It is thought, by the
ditferent trails that have been difcovercd since,
that there are other parties come into the settle
ments besides that which attacked Le Conte ; it
so, there is no telling what their numbers are."
The two men killed by the Indians in Liberty
comity were, Mr. Grimes and Mr. James Cole.
Winchester, June 3. _
[From a Correspondent.'] " A great majority of
theHoufe of Representatives in Congress, appear
to be a band of patriots : It may be observed ih
the Debates, however, that some gentlemen who
pass for men of sens e, are against adifcrimination
ontonnage. This is a matter of aftonifhinent to
aperfon who fees that the sale of American oil
and rice in France, is superior to all advantages
in commerce that Britain .:an give the United
States. Britain aifplays fucli rapacity for felf-in
terelt and monopoly, that no American of liberal
sentiments can hesitate to make a difcriniination
between her and France. They who do, appear
to be ignorant oftheinterefts of the United States,
or fail to pursue it.
" Do these gentlemen intend that we shall be
aspaffive in our traffic with Europe as the Turks
are ? The Dutch, English, and French, carry their
commodities, an 4 fell them in the Turkish do
minions, and bringback the commodities of Tur
key in the fame bottom: Hence arises the great
difficulty which the Porte labours under to man
and maintain anavy, notwithftandingthe absolute
power of this Court. * Such men discover a timid
diffidence which borders on meanefs—they are
afraid to do what is absolutely neceflary, to eftab
lilh a revenue, and consequently, the credit of
their country,leaft the Britilh should do something
to counteract it: Such pufilanimous conduct will
never command respeCt in commerce or in war.
" It is observed by some gentlemen, that Bri
tain takes our flax feed—lt is not to oblige us ;
itisbecaufc it answerS far better, and with more
certainty ofa cropthan feed from Holland, or any
part of the European continent—that they take
ourpotaih and naval stores. If the bad bloocl which
originated in the armed neutrality, should get a
little more inflamed, Britain would be obliged to
depend on us in a great measure for pitch, tar,
turpentine, and other naval stores. Russia and
Denmark will not supply her, and so many of the
Swedes will be employed in arms, that they can
notfurniih her with a fufficient quantity. 111 this
Situation, I would use the Biitons with civility,
andeftablifh more of a reciprocity in trade, than
their short lighted policy, and interested felfilh
views would permit them to grant to America.
" Besides the other great obligations which the
, 'ted States lie under to France, we owe them a
rj r»e (um of money ; and not with (landing the
Unfortunate situation of tlieir own finances, they
war to press us: Our ingratitude to France
would be next to our ingratitude to Heaven : She
was an inltrument in the hand of Providence, to
nn gvis to what we are.
" A great deal has been said on thefcarcity of
flapping to carry the bulky commodities of Ame
rica to market. It is generally allowed, that the
States to the eastward have more lhipping than is
neceflary for their own carriage : Let them by
all means have the preference—What they get is
all in the family. They are an lnduitrious enter
prising people—and knowing their interest, and
being attached to it, will prevent their being ex
orbitant in their demands for freight, as it would
operate against them, and induce every state to
provide themselves in fliipping as fact as polfible,
to serve their own purpot'es.
" Let a person of judgment, acquainted with
lhipping and materials for building, consider the
immenl'e quantities of live oak and cedar in the
Southern States ; and pines so lofty, that it tires
the eye to look at the top ; many of them four feet
diameter—and he will fee, that an adtive enter
prising people will, in a Ihort time, not only sup
ply the United States with /hipping fulKcient for
their own carriage, but will carry on a profitable
commerce by building, freighting, and felling
the Ihips in Europe.
" It is disagreeable to observe some men infill
on lowering the impost, before they know the
amount of it, or are informed of the fuins of money
neceflary for the fupportofgovernment, the pay
ment of the interest of our debts, and for eftab
lilhing a finking fund to pay off the principal
debts by installments : The fpeeclies of such per
sons serve only to expose then! to ridicule, and
prove how incompetent they are to eftablilh a re
venue, and make laws for a great and riling em
pire.
'' America has great reason to thank Providence
that a large majority of the House ot Reprelen
tatives discover greater abilities and more know
ledge of the Times.
Boston, June 13.
Yesterday the joint committee of the legisla
ture reported to the Hon. Senate, the address to
THE PRESIDENT of the United States.
That firm reliance on Heaven—that spirit of
piety, and moderation—which breathes in every
line which has come from THE PRESIDENT,
will remain a record to posterity, as honorable
as his brilliant atchievements both in the field
and the cabinet—and will perpetuate his fame
more than the fongof the poet —the page of the
hiltorian—the marble monument, or studied in
scription.
NEW-YORK, JUNE 20, 1789.
A FEDERAL SONG.
for the Anniversary of AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE.
To the tunc of u Rule Britannia.
I.
YE friends to this auspicious day!
Come join the fed'ral, teftive band,
And all Columbia—homage pay
To him who freed thy happy land. ,
Hail Columbia! Columbia's Genius, hail.
Freedom ever Jha 11 prevail.
11.
Brave, jufl, artji generous, wife, sincere.
Thy virtues cheer each drooping Son ;
And thy proud Rivals —haH revere
Columbia's Genius, WASHINGTON.
Hail Columbia! &c.
111.
No more (Kail Envy blast our fame,
Or Jealousy our hearts divide,
The BAND OF BROTHERS—now proclaim
The knot indiirolubly tv'd.
Half Columbia! &c.
IV.
No more {hall Difcor.d cloud the day
That gave to INDEPENDENCE birth.
Henceforth we'll fpurnthe —Fiend away,
And drown our fears in wine and mirth.
/Jail Columbia! &c.
V.
Now LIBERTY, by HEAV'N's command,
Returns to bless Columbia's shore ;
Well pleas'd, [he views the—happy land,
And cries, I'll wander now no more.
Hail Columbia! &c.
VI.
In this my last asylum blest,
Columbia ftiall my Empire own,
And HE who won me—stand confeft
The faithful guaidian of my throne.
Hail Columbia! &c.
VII
COMMERCE shall rear her drooping head,
And open all her copious {lores,
Her {hips their lofty—pinions Ipread,
To wait them to remoieit (horcs.
Hail Columbia!
VIII-
Ye FAIR who grace Columbia's plains !
To you my Sons shall homage pay,
And though they scorn a—tyrant's chains,
Shall bow to Beauty's fov'reign iway.
Ilail Columbia ! £?c.
IX.
On this bright dawn of HALCYON days,
Let fed'ral triends in concert join
To pour, while they the —flafk can raise
Libations to the God of Wine.
Hail Columbia! Columbia's Genius t nail -
Freedom everJhall prevail. E. C.
The important decision on the motion, for (hiking Out a clause
in the hill which hadbeenfor several days before the committee
,f the HOufc of Reptefentatives of the United States has quieted
he fears ot many friends to the Union, who had been uneasy,
left the blending of the LcgifUtive and Executive Powers of Go
vernment, should at some future period have produced diflenti
ons, corruption and debility, in the Legislature of the United
M His Most Christian Majesty's Packet Lt Telenaque, L'Hotbi
itß commander, wil! fail for Bourdeaux the fuft of July next.
The President has been indisposed with a fligfitfevex, for ?.
few days pall; but the public anxiety may be abated, by the
ajjurance (.hat he is now much better.
We are'informed, that His Excellency Thomas Jefferson,
Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States to the Court of
trance, has requeiled leave to visit America : and that The Pre
sident has granted him permiflion accordingly.
We further learn, that this event was nii.de known to the Senat4
>n Wednesday last by a m flage from The President, who at
the fame time was pleased to nominate William Short, Elq.
Charge des Affaires for the United States, at that Court, during the
abfenee of Mr. Jefferson.
The nomination, we hear, is confirmed by the Senate.
Every friend to the happiness and freedom of America* con
templates with pieafure, the increase and diffufion of learning in
these rising States.—A laudabl spirit pepades the various socie
ties and associations of citizens, to extend the means of know
ledge and information. Schools and other seminaries of learning,
are continually encreafing—the inhabitants of this city d.Lover a
laudabl® ambition on this account —and the public papers are
daily announcing the literary improvements, and exhibitions oi
the youth, taught atthe several academies.
The exhibition of the pupils of Mr. Hardie, atthe city-ta
vern, bn Wednesday evening, was attended by a very large and
refpe&able company. The performances of the several parts af
fined to the young gentlemen, gave great pieafure to the fpe&a
tors. The grace, the animation and propriety, of the a&ion and
pronunciation of the several scholars, were honorary te> them
lelves, and reflected great credit upon their preceptor.
The nthinft. being the day for the general
aflembly of the State of Rhode lfland, agreeable
to a resolve pafled at their late felfion, to take in
to consideration a motion made for calling a con
vention, to adopt the new conftitution —the fame
was accordingly taken up, and after the matter
was difcufled, the vote was taken, and there was
a majority of eleven against calling aconvention.
The motion made for repealing the tender law
was also taken into consideration, and it also
pafled in the negative, by a majority ot [even.
The diminution of the majority against the Federal Conftitlilion
in theStateof Rhode-Island, is indicative ofthe complete triumph
of reason and common sense over (he power of anarchy, felfilHneis
and party views : Rhode-Island and North-Carolina' will undoubt
edly soon be restored to the Union, when there will be more joy
over two returning wanderers, than over eleven dutiful sons, whi>
have never strayed from the Temple of Union,
The friends to the constitution of the United States, may re
joice in every circumstance that has attended its progress, from the
beginntng : The opposition to it, called forth in its defence and
support the noblest faculties of the human mind- The lull, free
and unbounded difcuflion of its merits and defects, has ser
ved to emblazon its preponderating excellencies in such manner,
that its foundation is extended, and made more firm and durable,
than its mofl sanguine friends could have anticipated.
In proportion as knowledge diffufes itfelf, li
berty spreads its genial rays. The French now
make themselves happy in the idea of a free
press : Those generous spirits who are burning
with the flame of liberty,a. e now engaged in so: m -
ing a fchenie for the more equal representation
of the people in the Etats Generaux; which they
justly consider as the firft gleam of liberty. An
enlightened people colleifted into an aflembly by
equal representation, will soon acquire through
their means every right that belongs naturally to
man.
OUR COUNTRY.
WHAT an happy afyluin does America prefenc
to the wretched inhabitants of the old world!
Here—where vafl: tratfts of country boalt a foil
and climate equal to the inoft fertile kingdoms of
Europe! Here—where no lordly despot ulurps the
land to difpoflefs the swain—where laws, and
equal liberty are the lot of all—Her# are they in
vited ! Industry ! especially in the United States,'
calls for an acceflion of artists; and agriculture
alone is capable of maintaining those thousands
and tens of thousands, who perilh in supporting
the falfe claims of Princes. The men, who mult
lose their lives in a single battle, accompanied
with some of those damfels,who facrifice their days
in convents to family pride under the malic of
devotion, Would easily find that provision in any
of our States, whether new or old, which would
induce them to exchange a life of rapine or of
celibacy, for the comforts of domestic life. Pro
fligacy, which ranges at large in courts, camps,
cities, and villages, would here be rendered ufe
ful to society. Religion, instead of being confi
ned to a convent, like a candle under a bufliel,
might illuminate regions as yet in Pagan dark
nels ; large diftricfts where the foot of man has
scarcely trod, might be turned into Edens ; and
the golden age, which never existed but in the
brains of enthusiasts, might in some degree be
realized in the American republics.
Of STYLES and TITLES.
HOW is it, if titles are not consistent with the
genius of the people of America, as is aflerted
by foine—that in almoftall the Constitutions of the
several States, there are express provisions made,
for titles of diftincftion for the Supreme and other
magistrates ? And how is it, that common fon
fent in every State, so readily agrees to the llyle
of Honorable being given to various officers—fuch
as Counsellors, Judges of various tribunals, Pre
lidents of political bodies, Generals, &c. if they
are really repugnant to the feelings and wijhes of
the people ? Majf. Centinel.
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK.
Wednesday, Packet Telemaque, L'Hotelier, Bourdeaux.
Thursday, Ship Flora, Sinnolt, Newry, 36 days.
Schooner Rebecca, Gale, Nova-Scotia, 24 days.
Friday, Schooner Dove, Riggs, Baltimore, 15 days.
— Sydney, Todd, do. 11 days,
Sloop Polly, Sowers, Ptuadelphii, 3 days.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
Continued jrom our lujl.
If, in reading hi (lory, the glofles and refle&ions of historians
are taken implicitly, a nuftaken judgment will often be formed.
•Rome was an anftocracy, and Livy an ariftocratical writer. The
constitution of government, the principles, prejudices, and man
ners of the times, should never be a moment out of fight. If we
believe the Romans, Manlius was actuated only by envy and am
bition ; but it we Consider his a&ions, and the form of govern
ment at the times we should be very apt to pronounce him both
a greater and a better man than Camillus. To speak candidly,
there was a rivalry between the Manlian and the Quintian fami
lies, and the llruggle was which fliould be the firlt family, and
who the firft man : and such a llruggle exjfts, not only in every
empire, monarchy, republic, but in every city, town, and vil
lage, in the worla. But a philosopher might find as good rea
fi»n to fay that Manlius was facnficed to the envy, jcaloufy,
and ambition of Camillus and the Quintii, as that his popular en
deavours for the plebeians sprung from envy of Camillus, and
ambition to be the firft man. Both were heads of parties, and
had all th - paflions incident to such a iituation : but if a judg
ment mult be pronounced which was the bell man and citizen,
there are very strong arguments in favor of Manlius. The name
cf King was abhorred by the Romans. But who and what had
inade it so ? Brutus, and his brother ariftocrates, at the expulsion
of Tarquin, by appointing religious execrations to be pronounced
in the name of the whole State, and for all succeeding ages,againft
such as should dare to aspire to the throne. In this way any
word or any thing maybe made unpopular, at any time and in
any nation. The Senate were now able to set up the popular cry,
that Manlius aspired to the throne; this r«vived all the religious
horror which their cftabliihed execrations had made an habitual
pait ot their natures, and turned an ignorant iuperftitious popu
lace against the best friend, and the only friend they had in the
republic. The Senate firft talked of afl'aflination and another
Ahala; but, to be very gentle, they ordered " the magistrates to
'* take carc that the commonwealth sustained no prejudice from
" the pernicious dcfignsof Manlius." This was worse than private
a flafli nation; it was an afTafTmation by the Senate : it was judgment,
sentence, and execution, without trial. The timid flaring peo
ple were intimidated, and even the tribunes caught the panic,
and offered to take the odium off the Senate, and cite Manlius be
fore the tribunal of the people themfelvcs, andaccufe him in form.
It is unpoflible not to fufpe£ts nay fully to believe, that these tri
bunes were bribed secretly by the Senators. They not only
abandoned him with whom they had co-operated, but they be
trayed the people, their constituents, in the most infamous man
ner. They said, that in the present difpofnion Manlius could
not be openly attacked without intercfting the people in his de
fence; that violent measures would eacite a civil war; that it was
Jieceflary to fcparate theintcrefts of Manlius from those of the peo
ple : they themselves could cite him before the tribunal of the
people, and accuse him in form. Nothing, said the tribunes, is
Jess agreeable to the people than a King ; a* soon as the multitude
iees that your aim is not against them; that from protettors they
arc become judges ; that their tribunes are the accusers, and that
a partrician is accujed for having aspired at the tyranny, no interest
will l»e sb dear to them zs that of their liberty. Their liberty:
The liberty of plebeians at that time ! What a profhtution of la
crcd terms ! Yet, gfofs as was this artifice, it laid fall hold of
those blind prejudices which patricians and ariftocrates had inspi
red, and duped eifettually a stupid populace. Manlius was cited
by the tribunes before the people: in a mourning habit he ap
peared, without a fiogle Senator, relation, or friend, or eved his
own brothers, to express concern for his fate ; and no wonder;
a Senator, arid a person of consular dignity, was never known to
have been so universally abandoned. But nothing can be more
fajfe thai' the reflexions of historians upon this occasion: 44 So
44 much d-d the love of liberty, and the fear of being enslaved,
<l prevail in the hearts of the Romans over all the ties of blood
''and nature!" it was not love of liberty, but absolute fear which
seized the people. The Sen te had already condemned him by
their vote, and given their consuls di&atorial power against Man
lius and his friends : the tribunes themselves were corrupted
with bribes or fear; and no man dared expose himfelf to arifto
cratical Vengeance, unprotc&ed by the tribunes. To prove that
it was fear, and not patriotism, that restrained his relations and
friends, we need only recollett another instance. When Appi
us Claudius, the decemvir, was imprisoned for treason, much
more clcar than that of Manlius, and tor conduct as wicked, bru
tal, and cruel, as Manlius's appears virtuous, generour, and hu
m-.ne, the whole Claudian family, even C. Claudius, his pro
filed appeared as suppliants before the judges, implo
ring mercy tor their relation. His friends were not afraid. Why?
because Claudius was an enemy and later of the people, and
therefore popular with most of the patricians. His crimes were
cnftocratical crimes, therefore not only almost venial, but almost
vu turs. Manlius's offence was Jove of the people; and demo
rratical mildemeanors aire the most unpardonable of all that can
t»e committed or conceived in a government where the daemon of
anftocracy domineers. Livy himfelf betrays a consciousness of
the inefficiency of the evidence to prove Manlius'sguilt : he fays
he can discover no proof, nor any other charge of any crime of
treason, " reuni crimen," except some assemblies of people, f e _
ditious fpeechcs, generosity to debtors, and the falfe insinuation
of the concealment of the gold. But here we fee what the peo
ple are when they meet in one assembly with the Senators : they
dare not vote against the opinion or •will of the nobles and par
tricians. The ariftocratical part of mankind ever did, and ever
will, overawe she people, and carry what votes they please in
general, when they meet together with the democratical part, ci
ther in a collective or niprefentatrve afl'envbly. Thus it happened
here: fuperftitiondecided. While in fight of the capital, their
religious reverence for the abode of Jupiter, favd and inhabited
by Manlius, was a counterbalance to their fears and veneration
for the Senators descended from the gods. The people could not
condemn him in fight of the capital. The tribunes knowing
what was in them, adjourned to another place the next day. The
capital out of fight, and the Senators present, c ndemned their
e, v rer, and he died a facrifice to the rancorous envy of his
peers in the the consulate, and patrician order, who
could not bear the fight of so splendid a diftinftion and elevation
above themselves, in anyone of their order, as Manlius's houle
upon the capital, and his title of Capitolinus. " Homines pro-
P e quadnngentos produxifTe dicitur, quibus fine foenore cx-
penfas pecunias tuliffet, quorum bona venire, quos duci ad-
dittos prohibuiffet. Ad hasc, decora quoque belli non corn
's P lcT T lora^e t3nt6m, fed prptulifFe etiam confp.cienda ; fpolia
# ; c* forum ad triginta, dona irtiperatorum ad quadra
ginta, in quibus infiegs duas coronas, civicas o£lo. Ad
i] * >E . C crvatosex hoftibus cives produxilTe, inter quos, C. Ser
vilitum magiftrum equitum, abfentem nommatum : et, quum
ca quoque qua: bello gefta efTcnt, pro faftigb rerum, oratione
etiam magmfica facta di&is aequandoj' niemoraffet, nudaffe
* pectus tnfign cicatricibus bello accfcptis ; et identidemcapito-
aum fue&ans Jovem, deofque alios devocaffe ad auxiiium* tor
tun a rum fuarum: precatufque eft. . ut. quam mentein fibi Ca-
p«i.Oiinam arcem protegenti ad falutem papuii Romani dedif-
lent, earn popu'o Rwmano in fuo difcrimine darent : et oraffe
fingulos univerfol'que, ut capitolium atque arcem. intuentes, ut
4 ad deos immortales verfi, de fe judicarent."
By removing the afleinbly from the Campus Martins, where
the people were effembied in centuries fcenturiatim), to the
Qrove (Pcteiinuai Lupum , from whcnce th-: capital could not be
seen, obftinatis animis trifte judicium, with gloomy obflinacy
the fatal sentence was passed, and the tribunes call him down
from the Tarpeian rock. " Such was the cataftropbc," fays li
vy, los a man who, if he hid not lived in a free city, would
" have merited fame;" He Ihould have said, if he had not li
ved in a (imple ariftrodracy, and alarmed the envy of his fellow
arillocrates by fuperiour merit, services, and rewards, cfpecially
that most conspicuous mark, his house the capitol, and hi
new title, or agnomen, Capitoliuus, which mortal .envy could
not bear.
he was no sooner dead than the people repented and regretted
him : a sudden plague that broke out was coniidered as a judg
ment from Heaven upon the nation, for having polutid the capi
tal with the blood of its deliverer.
Ihehiftoryof Manlius is an unanswerable argument against a
simple aristocracy; it is a proof that no m:n's liberty or life is
fafe in such a government: the more virtue and merit he has, the
more in danger, the more certain his deftru&ion. It is a good
argument against a (landing fovcreign and supreme authority in au
hereditary ariltocracy; so fa r Nedhain quotes it pertin;ntly, and
applies itjuftly: but when the fame example is cited to prove
that the people in one supreme atfembly, fucceflively chosen, ar,
the bell keepers of their liber/y, so far from proving the propor
tion, it proves the contraty, because that Camillus, the Quintu,
and Manlius, will all be chosen into that one afTembly by the peoph;
the lame emulation and rivalry, the lame jealousy and envy, the
lame (buggies of families and individuals for the firft place', will
arilc l/rtwecrthem. One of them will have the rich and great
tor his followers, another the poor; hence will arise two or three,
kf "j P arties ' w h ,ch w iH never ccafe to till war and
bloodlhed decides which is the strongest. Whilst the struggle
continues, the laws are trampled on, and the rights of the citi
zens invaded bv all parties in turn ; and when it is decidcd, the
leader of the viilorious army is emperor and despot.
(To be continued.)
An ESSAY on FREE TRADE and FINANCES :
Written by a citizen of Philadelphia, in 1783.
\ContinucdJrom our lafl
VII. This mode of taxing will give our treafuit forte conbenfa.
tion for the monies akuh our people fay towards the tax of other coun
tries which they travel through, ar reside in, when abroad. An Ame
rican cannot travel through any country of Europe, and drink a
bowl of punch or eat a dinner, bit he contributes to the tax of
the country ; and if our taxes, like theirs, were laid on such lux
nous conlumptious as travellers usually indulge themfelve. in,
their people who travel through our country or reside in it, would
contribute towards our taxes, in like manner as our people who
travel or reside in their countries, contributeto theirs ; and as we
cxpedt that the intcrcourfe between us and all the countries of
Europe will be very great, it is highly reafonahle that our treasu
ry lliould receive the fame benefit from their travellers among us,
that their treafur.es reccive from out people who travel or relide
among tl,cm, and a little attention to the fubjeft, will be fuffi-
Cle rt to ir ,n « ai,y """• that thls Jrticle is morc than a trifle.
IX. r.ns mode of taxing, *hich brings the burden of the
tax principa.ly on articles of luxury, or at most on articles of
not the firft neceflity, gives easement and relief to our husbandry and
manufactures, which are in danger of ruin from th, piefent weight 0/
taxes which lies an them. If we tax land, we leflen "its value" and
ot course diminish the whole farming interest. If we tax poles,
we in effect tax labor, which discourages it, and of confequc'nce
wecaft a damp and deadenmg langouron the very firft springs, the
original principle and source of our national wealth, and wound
the great staples of the country in their embrio. Now 1 think
that any mode of taxing, which gives remedy and relief, against
1° great, so fatal an evil, would deserve consideration, even though
it had not these advantages in its favor, which I have before enu
merated * have heard a stupid and cruel argument urged, that
taxing labor has this advantage, that it promotes industry, because
it increales neceflity. This argument proves in a very cogent
manner that 'lis best to make every body poor, because it will
make them work the harder. I Ihould think it would be more
humane and liberal in a government to manage the public admini
stration so that industry might have ail pollible encoura-eme.it,
that it might be rather animated by an increase ot hapoinefs and
hope of reward, than goaded on by dire neceflity, and 'the dread
ful spurs of pinching want. I freely give ,t as my clear and
deeded opinion.that ,us the interest, duty and best polity of every
government, to give all possible ease, . xoneration, and encourage
ment to that industry, those occupations and kinds of bufmefs
which most ennch, strengthen, and happily a nation, and to lay
W J ? 1 fg " V "T?t as tar as possible on those fafhion., ha
bits and practices, which tend to weaken, impoverish and cor
rupt the people, and therefore that any mode of taxing which
tends to encourage the firft of these and discourage the last, is
worthy of the most serious attention. B '
But perhaps the advantage of this kind of taxation will appear
etfeftT™ f " g Bv* u y J C ° nride " nS its P ra6tlcal and general
I thinL ? nv!°" W jdo P tslt > in which view of the matter
I think it will be very manifeft.
a " y ma , nt,fh » whether he be merchant, farmer
TJZj P' nJ y, l "" ff' er »*<> better, i.e. be happier through the
year and richer at the end aj ,t, , n acountry where tins tax is p.ud than
he could I've in the fame country, if the tax was not paid-for*
he tax is laid on ufclefs coniumptions, it would as course diminish
those consumptions, and of course save the firft cost of the part di
wouM " addlt,onal "pence which the use of that p Jrt
would require If a man lives in a country abounding in luxury
he must go in some degree into it or appear Angular and mean and
that part which he would be in a manner compelled to adorn
would probably cost him more than his tax ; but 'tis here to he
con idered.that the frjl co/l ot an article of luxurv, is not near all
the coflof.t One article often makes another necessary, and "hat
tlnroand so on almost ad infinitum, if you buya silk cloak there
must alio betrimmgs and that willnot dj without a hat or bo met
nd there requires a fu,tabic accomodation in every other part of
of anne order to kce P "P a "y fort of dcccncy and uniformity
Dut?h,ffit th " ealf ° muftbe f P em a g r «t deal of time to
put these fine things on, and to wear them, to show them to re
ceive and pay visits, ,n them, & c . And when this kind ol 'luxury
the rnnV" " C ° U "''' y b fJ' ond «hedcgrce which us wealth tan bear
The f qU fi en T' S u P ' P ove "y' d " bt > duns, lawsuits, &c & c '
f" d j the proceeds of the year vanished into trifles'
the merchant and tradesman may fell their uoods inrlrrri k
get payment for them. Every JamilyKSftb
c eased, and the time of the family much consumed in attend
to that very expence. Many families loon becomc embarrass /
and put to very mortifying fhifts to ke- n.mTw '
w h rt h th U f h f a C T UP ' 'l" almost to But
were these families with the fame income, to live in a countrvTf
more ceconomy and less luxury, they would eifilv k
on the luxuries they did trfe kvn n , , - P a Y [lc t^xes
m,sht be camcd »»^
r ere < U' Il ld l^ S,
ahoofe to live in a country where articles of hurtful"Cu va"nd
use less consumption, were by taxes or any other cause raiL f
, m thslr P r ' cf . as to prevent the exceffivc use of ik™ 1
than in a coni-.M-y where such articles were of ' " th "
and the use of them f,, excessive anions the inhabitant. q "". CmCnt '
fume their wealth, destroy their induftrv nnd ascon
and health of th- r- r.r.>. lnclultr y, and corrupt the morals
II I tlimk it is very plain, that articles of hurt.'ul v-J r,
confumpt.on.re making fuel, rapid amo,.„u a"d "
>ng into iuch exceffivc ufc, as to throw tne <xouomv
l.mplicity, and even health of our people i„„, ,1a vcr i !l
iequence rasing theprue of fuel, article, si „ JuIhZIT'
product a prefer cheek to the exceftve vfeof them u.,,11 2V > "
, rent, as when added to a J mall and veiy moderate mpof urUdJ ■
general and nectary coemption, will bang moneunLU Mo th f
he tr afuryfor all the P u, P ofes 0 J the public fe, W« '"'
pose then that all tins is don •, and when this ,s done, we will ii' 1 *
a mom nt and look round us, and view the advanN, , p
from tins mealure, over and above the capital one.rf Jteckm, ° S
"*"»•»« tnat excessive luxury that threatens, if "H?"«
deftru&mn, yet at lealt a tarn.flimcnt of every pnnciple out")
which our prosperity, wealth and happinels mutt ..cceLih,,
.oreverflow. I lay, we'll Hops minu.tanri \ iew the advai, J
tfeOi oi this mealure. The firtl grand clt.ft M h.eli prdw, ,
Ms tomy view is, that our army would be paid, ilrat our
our fellow citizens, who, by their valor, their patience \vi r
leveraace in the field, have lecured to us our vast xte'nfivr -
try and .Hit, bkffiug. will be enabled to return to
and connexions, not only crowned witb the laurels ot tl.e lidd
outrewarded by tbejuft.ee and gratitude of then country, and £
thereby enabled to support their dignity of character, or at l e *
LvT ° n .l S W,dl th , e ' r fc"°w-c«ttens (whom they w
laved; m the procurement of the means of livinr.
r " c next Vantage of this mealure which occurs to me •!
easement and exoneration of the laborers of the community,
landman andtradefman, out of whose labour all our wealth Ji
fuppl.es are derived, by them we are fed, by them we are It
<-d, by tile various modifications of their labour, our ftj»lt Sar .
Tbnnli °"r co " ln > crcc receives its principle, and our utmoi
abundance is supplied, we are therefore bound by every princi.
peo justice, graututude and good policy, to give them encou
Umnttru P tcd Security in their peaceful occupations
and not by an unnatural and ill-fated arrangement of our finances
-ompel them to leave their labours, which arc the grand obied
togo andhuat —
(To be continued],
NATIONAL MONITOR No. IX.
The traveller who o'er trie country flics.
' * cw fubje£U with a just difcernraent spies ;
Ohje&s that pafi [q quick, confound the mind,
4 And no diftiuft ideas leave behind."
, I N , '"g en ">"s tut iter in feme of our public papers,
hath observed, that to compleat the education of th,f c
youth, -uho ma, be deftintd to public life it, ihc
Legijlature of the Union, such an intimate acquaint
ance with the several States is neceffttrjt, as can be ob
tained only by a temporary refideiice in each—and
ji om hcncc inferred the importance of makmv the
tour of the continent.
The knowledge that is derivedfrom fludy, htvever,
fyftematte and theoretic, is often found inadequate
an acquaintance with the real ft ate off*Oi furtnjhet
trreftftable arguments, when the most ingenious theo
ries prove radically defective —hence we find that ex
perience has the advantage of speculation ; and an
accurate idea of pofttive, existing circumjlances, t
great superiority in leading to the be ft decisions upon
all occafienj. J
The tour of this continent is without doubt of as
much consequence to the citizens of these States, at
that of Europe ever was to the inhabitants of Great-
Britain, and in many refpetts of much greater.
In Europe they travel to acquire aknowlege of theba
lits, manners, laws, history, ire. of foreign countries.
Americans should travel to obtain just ideas of tht
various and diverftfied people who compose not a fo
reign nation, but one in whofeJ ate their own is immt
aiately involved.
Let it not be said, that variety, novelty, antiquity,
and splendor are wanting to excite the attention, to a
muse, to animate, and inftrufi the American travel
~r America was always an objefl of delightful con
templation to the phi!ofopher in every part of tlieglobe—
tit ft nee the adoption of the new conftitution —Sbeii
raised to a most refpeftable grade in the scale of nt
"r'r a "d her progress to perfeClion opens anew fieli
of speculation to the human 7>iind. That information
therefore which cats be derived from travel only, is
now become of infinite importance to the legislators, the
jtatefmen and the patriots of our country. C.
(The fubjeft to be continued.)
This Day is fiublijhtd, . (Price 2/6)
And to be fold by Berry &Rocers, Hanover-Square, by
K.OBERT Hodge, Comcrof King and Oueen-Strcet, and by
the Editor hereof;
TWENTY-SIX
L E T T E R S,
upon INTERESTING SUBJECTS,
respecting the REVOLUTION or AMERICA.
Written in Holland in the Year M,DCC, LXXX.
By his Excellency JOHN ADAMS,
V.'HILE HE WAS SOLE IV'INISTER PLE N1 FOT EKT IA K Y FROM
THF. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
FOR NtCOCIATINC A PEACE, AND A TREATY OF COMMERCE,
WITH CR E AT-D RIT AI N.
ADVERTISEMENT.
np rjr - Prefixed to the Letters.
•£>«. IALhOEN, an eminent Civilian at Amllerdam, to ruhom thtj:
ett m tucre written, compofed,by the means of them,a Lornpaiifon bctwu n
the revolt oj the Low Countries from Spain, and the revolution of Mr
United States of America; in which \e concL.Jed, upon the wlu'le,
as it was a kind of miracle that theformerfuceudcd, it uoiMeagrcstir
" miracle Jlill ij the latterfliould not."—This competition was read h
him to ajociety of gentlemen of Utters, about forty in number,
/onetimes at Amfte'dam ; and by its means jufl fenfm nts of America*
djaiTs began to spread in that couhtry, and to prevail oner the continue
mijreprcfentations oj certain gazettes and emi(Janes— The pubheatws
oj eneral How e and Burcoyne, in vindication of themselves, tvcrc
procured to he tranjlated into French, and probated, together until man)
(t er pamphlets, which affifled in the fame deftgn y and contributed to fj
'l le 1 J '.citizens ta those applications, by petition to the regencies of
r l /! a ! les > which finally procured th'e acknowledgement of America*
" pendency, the Treaty of Commerce, and a Loan of Money.
JOHN ADAMS.
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maipen*
La:, e, Hear the Ofuege-Marlct, Nl w-l'ofc*.—[3d3l.tr. an.]