oft/je
Ho. XV.
THE TABLE T. No. XV.
„ tfu Jaws often become odious and ufeltfs,
Irwjthe rajhncfs, the vice, or the folly of thoft
-jjh,extcute,them."
ThFRE is no propensity of the human mind,
that is more couftantly on the itretch, than
f„fnicous temper towards those, who take any
art in the administration of public affairs.Though
L disposition may be indulged to exce's, yet us
Itiftence conltitutes one ofthefafeguards ol pub
fa virtue and prosperity. The clamors of reft
left men, and the vigilance of jealous ones, have
110 doubt an influence, in rellraimng public ofh
«ers front an improper conduCt. As men ioinetunes
complain without lufficient reason, their coin
plaints do not funiiih a certain Itandard, for elh
marinethe merit of persons in the different branch
es of government. There is less probability that
initances of ; eal milcoiiduct will el tape notice
and censure, than that meritorious actions will
escape envy and low intrigue. If it is acknow
ledged that part of the murmurs and uneasiness,
that prevail againlt public men, originates in ig
norance, caprice, envy, or in any other unreason
able caufc, it would ltill be no concluiive argu
ment that public characters Ihould be indifferent,
whether their conduct was blamed or praised.
It iliould atleaft produce this effeCt ; that as they
neet with much in.ur.dkfi reproach, they should
be careful not to make themlelves liable to any
repreheniion that is well grounded. Many honelt
andl'enfible men, who a<ft ill dignified llations,
are so conlcious that they meet with more censure
and oppolition than they deserve, that they are
apt, by way of veiaiiation, to become petulent
and dil'dainVul. Sometimes they carry their feel
ings of rel'entment so far, towards unprovoked
abuse and injury, th; t they afford a luiiicicuc caulc
tor thereturnof that very treatment, which they
are retaliating. Dilgufted by the meaneis, and
provoked by the malice and llander of their op
pofers, they unwarily aflimilate themlelves, by
their mode of revenge, to the characters they pro
i'elsto reprohate.
it is a queltion that may TiPTTTTaIIy be aflced—
What vices and failings, in the ul'ual run of af
fairs, are molt obfervablc in the officers of govern
ment \ This queliion admits not of an anlwer
that is definite, and applicable to all situations.
In different ftjtges of civilization, there is a dif
ference in the predominant vices and weaknelles,
that attend all deloriptions of men. Theerrors,
that art obfeived in the firlt periods of ft govern
ment, often have their origin in an ignorance or
neglect of duty. During the late war, the prin
cip«l lories and'damage the public fultained, were
owing to inattention and waitefulnefs. Few in
itances of deliberate fraud and peculation liavfc
happened, compared with the miltakes and omis
sions that have occurred, merely from the imbe
cility of the motives, that prompted men to a vi
gilant and exatft performance of the diverfified
branches of their duty. It was notunufualto ob
serve aitore-keeper, who was minutely attentive
infccariug the property committed to his care,
from theft or unauthorized appropriation ; and
yet who was totally rbmife in securing it againlt
the attacks of weather, or in counteracting any
inherent caufcs in such articles to perilh from
their own tendency.
Once ir. particular, I recolie<ft to have observed,
a Coniiflarv making application to the command
ing officer of a department, for a guard of soldiers,
to be placed over a magazine of flour. This
Comifiary exprefled an anxiety in the bufinels,
'hat seemed to result from an honert delire to lave
the public property. lie obtained an order for
the guard and placed it, without loss of time, o> er
themao;?rine. The flour calks were without ftiel
ter, and ;n so bad repair, that a moderate ftoitn
ofrain would so injure the flour, as to render it
totally ul'elels. It happened ffiortly that iome
rain fell, and in fpitc of all the sentinels, the flour
Was damaged, if not ruined. The
v °ni:!lary could have prevented this damage, with
10 [ s trouble to himfelf, than he took to obtain the
■oidiers; andtl*e United States fuffered more by
drat ait of neglect, than they would have done, in
te months, by plunder, at that magazine, evfen
•■tough there had not been a sentinel employed
■■He whole time.
( bat peiiod is part, A new government is
-iblif.rcd, and an higher degree of civilization
; confequeiitlv we must look out for a
ere ut clai* of imperfections and vices. In the
ptmation of the executive part of the conftitu
!on diere is an admirable ftiwulus fuggelted, by
-,iicicafin^t he rel'ponfibility of officers, from the
'•inner r.<f their appointment. This will over
-1 and make them attentiveand cir
pea in a complete performance oftheir duty,
11111 le - v In *>y g"in the approbation of tliofe, who
From SATURDAY, May 30, to WEDNESDAY, June 3, 1789
participate in the fame feelings of responsibility.
But are no disadvantages introduced by this ar
rangement ? What are the inconveniencies of this
fpeciesof responsibility, and how may they be re
medied Those, who are to be employed in the
execution of the laws, will be relponfible for their
conduct in such a way, as will stimulate their ex
ertions, and restrain their cfiihonefty ; but as they
are not accountable to their fellow-citizens, they
will feel themselves released from the necelfity
of a civil, refpectful deportment to mankind,
and afl'ume a pride and arrogance of manners to
wards all, who move in a sphere less elevated than
their own. Such insolence of behaviour, may
naturally be expected to refalt from the cafe, and
it will be calculated to render the government
odious, and to fubjectthe laws to the imputation
of being oppreHive. lam far, however, from
anticipating any sudden evils from this quarter.
But as this is to be the vicious part of the cha
racter of offices sooner or later, it may be well to
endeavour to ward of the evil, to as remote a pe
riod as possible. Perhaps no description of men
whatever are so blindly ignorant of the true
principles of human nature, as the various exe
cutive officers in an old-established government.
If we critically examine the subject, we shall find
that the leading cause why officers in general are
so obnoxious to the people, and so many laws com
plained of as grievous, is, that such officers make
it no part of their fludy to understand the various
springs and operations of the human mind.
Every situation in life has virtues and vices pe
culiar to itfelf. Officers elected by the people
can generally find an easier way of obtaining po
pularity, thun the laborious talk of performing
their duty. They can proiliote their purposes
better, by flattering the prejudices, than by serv
ing the interest of their constituents. On the
other hand, officers appointed by the Supreme
JVlagiftrate, can only gain his approbation, by a
rigorous execution of duty. In accomplishing this
object, they feel no responsibility to society in
general, and are apt to neglect those common ci
vilities, which one person usually expedts from
another i and which if they <rt>rerved, would ren
der them agreeable, and their office acceptable.
In either ot tliefe cases, a man of a liberal and vir
tuous mind avoids the errors, into which, by his
situation, he has a tendency to fall. A man well
acquainted with the human character, and who
poflefles lioneft principles, may always perform
his duty with fidelity and honor, and at the fame
time acquire estimation, for liis amiable andcivi]
deportment, from all dalles of citizens.
An insolent, overbearing conductmay be com
patible with the ftricfteft integrity ; but it argues
either a weak understanding, or an erroneous e
ducation. Though a man of this call may not
hi.nfelf connive at any frauds against government,
yet his manners and conversation are so disgust
ing, that he raises enemies against the laws, and
in tliat way, very often provokes fraudulent coin
binations. It is difficult to estimate precisely the
evils such characters produce in society ; but I
believe a considerable part of the discontentment
and knavery, that exist in any government, are in
ftigated by the injudicious conduct of public of
ficers. The people aflociate their ideas, in such
a manner, as to imagine that the occasional mis
management of individuals is a fault neceflarily
incident to government; and therefore suppose,
that an evasion of law is juttifiable, no less than
opposition and hatred to those who exccute the
laws.
The present age is a period of experiment and
improvement. It iseafy for us to trace public dis
orders to their true sources ; but it will be more
difficult to apply suitable remedies. It will not be
attainable to avoid such inconveniencies altogeth
er ; but when we know how liable they are to hap
pen, it Should induce us to guard against them, as
far as may be practicable. For this purpose, it
ihould be one circumstance to be in es
timating the qualifications of public officers, whe
ther they combine such properties as will lead to
an able and faithful discharge of their duty, and
at the fame time, render their services not odi
ous and contemptible to the people.—lt may ap
pear capricious to suggest the idea, but I think it
will occur on a little reflection, that no man no
toriously unpopular, should ever be employed in
any important office. Though I acknowledge,
that popularity is often connecftcd with meanefs
and knavery ; yet I have obfei ved, that charac
ters who are extremely obnoxious, are so defec
tive, either in talents or prudence, as to difquali
fy them from acting in any station, with reputa
tion to themselves or advantage to the community.
Many persons are so ignorant of the principles
of human nature, as to imagine, that they can
only discover an honesty andfirmnefs of conduct,
by a captious temper, and a domineering deport
ment. It seems not to occur to such people, that
discretion should ever be ranked among the ufeful
qualifications of a public officer. By this means,
their virtues, and such good qualities as they re
ally do poflefs, lose their bcneticial influence.
If one were enquired of, whether the propen
sity of the people to complain of publickmea
fures without any cause was greater, than the lia
bility of officers to give attual occasion of offence,
it would be difficult to adjult an answer to the
question. It is evident, that most of the clamors
against public measures, do not proceed from
motives that are pure and disinterested ; but then,
this malignity of motives is heightened by the ill
nature and discontentment, which are excited by
real mifinanagement.
A SKETCH OF THE POLITICAL STATE OF AMERICA.
[Continued from No. XIV.]
A MERE description, or definition, of certain,
powers to be verted in a conltixuent body of men,
has never yet been found to poflefs intuitively
those effects, which answer the end and aim for
which all power was originally delegated; nor
has the molt diffufive patriotifin, operating among
any people, towards the aid of Government, yet
fuperceded the want of that encouragement to
duty, which arises from the emoluments of of
fice : But all nations have uniformly deemed it
neceflary to call for a portion of the wealth of
their citizens, to establish and support Govern
ment in its various executive branches.—This
faCt being established, the most obvious reflection
which presents itfelf is, how is this neceflary sup
port to be obtained with the greatest ease ? And
so as to bear most equally on the different clafles
of the people, and the various interests of the
community i The varying practices of different
nations, make the solution of this question in a
degree problematical, and to depend on a com
bination of circumstances and causes, which it
would require a volume to explore, and far ex
ceeds the bounds of my present design.
1 conceive the best criterion for us will be, to
commence with an investigation of natural prin
ciples, and their corresponding effedls, which an
acquaintance with human nature, will enable us
to develope, and as far as a. detail of reasoning may
be neceflary, that we limit our refearclies to those
cases, which apply best to the confequence.—lt is
to be regretted,that for want of a prior system 011
this fubje<ft, owing to our late unhinged and di
vided situation, we evidently feel the lofsof those
accurate data, and that compleat' information
from the various parts of the Continent, which
would subserve the most valuable purposes.—l
lhall venture a few ideas, on the proper mode of
obtaining such information in future, in some
subsequent paper.
We now coine to speak of the mpft eligible
plan, on which to rail'e the neceflary supplies of
vjovermnent—and shall here find it expedient to
consult the peculiar genius of the American peo
ple, and foine leading traits of the human cha
racter :—There is ever a prevailing jealousy
among the mass of a free people, relating to the
grants and appropriations of their pecuniary pro
perty : It will hence follow, that such a system
of taxation should be adopted, as wjll, in its ope
ration, touch most delicately this tender string ;
and that the objects, for which any afleflments are
made, should be regularly published, except in
cases of war, &c. where the public good makes se
crecy indifpenfible : Perhaps no people existing
ever poflefled, in a greater degree, that kind of
jealousy above mentioned, than the Americans,
and which in some instances, descends to mean,
suspicions: It will therefore be thought proper
in forming the Revenue System, not only to have
a regard to the interests which will be immediate
ly affe<fted thereby ; but to the peculiar nature
and genius of the people to be governed ; let the
" fuaviter in modo" be adopted, but without loos
ing fight of the " fortiter m re." The liberal, or
rather loose principles of government heretofore
existing in America, have been, and without the
nicest hand in future dire<ftions, may continue to
be opposed to bringing into action those great re
sources ofnational wealth, which are to be found,
if explored. The native enterprize of Americans
towards the extension of commerce, affords us a
a fair profpe<ft of collecting an important share
of the public revenue from foreign importations,
ifthetariff is levied with judgment ; and perhaps
for the "present this will be ccnfidered the only
source ofnational consequence: Foreign luxuries
brought into this country ought to be duly noti
ced by our impost laws, as common observation
and constant experience dictate the policy of tax
ing the paflions of mankind, which may tend to
good moral as well as political purposes, and is a.
species of taxation, which will be more cheerful
ly fuftaioed, as men but little value any obftaeles
\
PRICE SIX PENCE.while purfumg the gratification of their natural
or artificial properties: From this cause, Britons
■with all their boalled freedom, consent to bear
willingly the greatelt burthens. I have bee!) speak
ing of luxuries, but in generalobferve, In order
that our expectations may not be defeated, a nice
dillifl%uon ought to be made as to the quantum
each l'pecific article imported will probably bear,
and that while we fnppofe our public toilers daily
increaling, tho faift may not be that a premium is
held out by government to defraud the revenue.
This has been often the cafe where exorbitant and
ill-judged duties have been laid, calculated upon
the iniltaken principle, that the consumer even
tually bears the burthen, whereas experience
teaches us that the original importer is very often
in such cases the fufFercr, as there are many arti
cles which may not bear the additional price of
the duty, and a curtail of the coniumptian fol
lows, leaving the surplus as a heavy tax in the
merchant's hands, the whole duty on which he is
bound to "discharge ; but while a proper caution
is observed as to thole articles from which we
expect to derive an income, there are others we
arc to cons; tier in a different view ; and as they may
relate to our manufactures: here it will be found
our policy to give every encouragement to the
raw materials of foreign growtii, and which our
country does not afford, which ought to be intro
duced without burthens, that we may export them
afterwards with the additional price of the labor
uporv them, which its the molt beneficial pari of
commerce, as employing the greate'll number of
hands—and the cheapness of the raw material
will tend to give a preference in competition at
foreign markets : Lipon like principles every dis
couragement ought to be placed upon the intro
duction of foreign wrought articles, which may
be manufactured with advantage at home.—Some
conliderations on this head may come under a fu
ture number. AMERICAN US.
(To bj continued.)
Of the CONSTITUTION— and AMENDMENTS
to the favie.
THE tranfaiftions which have taken place in our
country, fill every patriotic mind with pleal'ure ;
inasmuch as they realize the confidence which had
been reposed in the native good sense of the peo
ple ; that whenever their public affairs get obvi
ouf.y wrong, they would interfere, and set them
to rights.—The example of changing a conllitu
tion, by aflemb|ing the wife men of the States,
inlleaa of aflembling armies, will be worth as
much to the world, as the former examples Ame
rica has given it.—The conllitution which has
been the result of our deliberations, is unqueltion
ably, the wisest ever yet presented to men ; and
the accommodations of interells, which it has
adopted, are greatly pleasing to those, who have
been anxiously concerned upon this point, having
realized how difficult it was to accommodate thole
interells.
A concurrence of opinion, however,
autliorifes to fay, that this conllitution has some
defects: It is, perhaps, not one ofthe least, that
the important rights, not placed in lecurity by
the frame ofthe conllitution itfelf, were not ex
plicitly secured by a supplementary declaration.
There are rights, which it is useless to surrender
to the government; and which, yet, governments
have been always fond to invade :—There are the
rights of thinking, and publilhing our thoughts,
by speaking and writing: the rights of free com
merce : the right of personal freedom : There
are inilruments for adminilleriiig the govern
ment, so peculiarly trult-wortliy, that we lliould
never leave the legillature at liberty to change
them.—The new conllitution has secured these in
the legiflativeand executive departments ; but not
in the judiciary.—lt Ihould have ellablifhed trials
by the people tliemlelves, that is to fay by jury.
There are inilruments so dangerous to the rights
of the nation, and which place tliemf'o totally at
the mcrcy of their governors, that those gover
nors, whether legillative or executive, lliould be
rellrainedfrom keeping such inilruments on foot,
but in well defined cases. Such an inllrument is
a llandi.'g army.
Such a supplement to the conllitution, where
that is lilent, is wanting to secure us in these
points. The general voice has legitimated this ob
jection ;and though it does not authorise us to con
lideras a defect, the perpetual re-eligibilitv ofthe
Prelidcnt, but three States out of eleven having
declared againll this, it may nevertheless be con
fulercd as one, and lliould the majority change
their opinion, as to this point, yet it is devoutly
to be w.ilhed, that this may remain unaltered, as
long as we can avail ourf'elves of the services of
our great leader, whose talents, and whose weight
of character, are peculiarly necellary, to get the
government so under way, as that it may after
wards be carried on by subordinate characters.
Under the auspices of this conllitution, admi
niltered with jullnefs, firmnefs and wisdom,
our America mull rapidly advance to dillino;uifh
ed eminence, power and prosperity: and the
perfecting this conllitution, by the addition of
such a supplementary declaration as is above fuo--
■rested, may be the result of the lame calm deli
beration and greatness of mind, which led to the
ratification cf the fyitem—for if this cannot be ef
fected quietly and peaceably, the conilitution had
better, infinitely better, be lefc to descend to
posterity as it is, than to hazard so invaluable a
jewel on the ocean of public discord.
NATIONAL POLITENESS.
EVERY friend of talle and fentimenral im
provement, mult wiih to encourage the The a
rk. e , unlels they fuppoie that it is injurious to the
mcvals of the people, and opposed tothefpirit ol
republicanifm.—Jtsut still the heft friend the thea
tre can boalt, may imagine it is liable to errors ;
and among these errors, may it not be reckoned
one, that an Englijhplay should intioduce a trench
character, in such a manner,, as to excite derili
-011 and contempt ? To burlesque and sport \yith
foreign manners, is, in any instance, rather bar
barous and unpolite; but in the cafe of the En
glifli comic writers, it is an unpardonable injus
tice. committed againlt their own countrymen.
Who can be so little acquainted with the diverli
fied qualifications of the Englilh nation, as not
to know that they abound in luitable characters
for every description of theatrical exhibitions ?
Wit, and.ridicule, may have a full scope without
wandering into other countries for objects,—
\V hat excuse can therefore be offered, that theii
comic writers, Ihould neglect their countrymen,
in order to drag the lower orders of Frenchmen
on the stage. Such unpolitenefs reflects more
diflionor on the nation that countenances it,
than on that against which the ridicule is levelled;
I could wilh American politeness may bear telti
inony againlt such partiality and prejudice.
C I V I S.
SKETCH of PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UMI ED SJ AXES.
Monday, June i, 1789.
Mr.BLANP afkedleaveof absence for fix weeks,
which was granted.
A meflage was recived from the Senate, inform
ing the House of their concurring in the report
lent up, respeCting the receiving bills and mella
ges from The Prelident.
It was then voted, that the Chairman of that
Committee, beinftructed to acquaint the Prefideni
with the arrangement upon this subjeCt, adopted
by both House s.
In Committee of the whole.
Mr. Trumbull in the Chair.
The bill, regulating the collection of the Re
venue, lia\ ing been aifigned for the order of the
day, was taken into conlideration.
The firft paragraph being read, which provi
ded, that " there Jbould be ports of entry," Mr. Lee
rose, to enquire into the necelfity of eftablifliin"
ports of entry only.
Mr. Madison answered the enqniry, by fay
ing, that it will be proper to conltitute some
ports of entry in situations where it would bi
productive of unneceflary expense to eftabliili
officers to fuperinterid the delivery of cargoes :
Long navigable rivers afford great conveniences,
for landing goods, as veflels may be proceeding
up such rivers to the port of deltination : This
fraud upon the revenue lliould be guarded aiainit
by obliging veflels to report their cargoes Imme
diately 011 entering such rivers.
Mr. Wadsworth observed, that it would em
barrass trade exceedingly to eitablifh ports ofen
tt y, that lliould not at the fame time be ports ofdif
clutrge : He moved to have the article itruck our
Mr. Lee ltated to the House the difficulties
which nad refilled from fiinilar eftablifhmentsin
Virginia ; and therefore leconded the motion to
expunge the article.
Mi. t* itzsimons said, that inltances no doubt
might be mentioned, which would plainly point
out the necelhty of such a provision as thea/ticle
referred to ; but as there appeared some difficul
ty in the way of determining upon the proper
situations for such ports, he movetl, that 1 lie ar
ticle should be passed over for the present ;
and the next in order taken up: Agreeably it
was voted to suspend the conlideration of the
firit article respecting ports of entry.
A meflage from The President being an
nounced, the committee rose. 0
The meflage was then received—by which the
House was informed, that The President had
approved of an ast, regulating the time and man
ner ot taking certain oaths, required by the con
ititution, and now returned the fame to the
1Io " fe llv1 I v l l lit V, C ori g™ted, with his fignaturc.
1 he CleiJv of the House was dlrefted to inform
the Senate ot the above circumltance.
Hie chairman of the committee then reported
progress in the bill, and a.ked leave to fit again
to-morrow upon the fame subjeCt, this palled in
the affirmative.
Mr. Benson gavenotice, that immediately af
ter the buimefs now afligned, wa<> compleated,
lie should move for a relolution to the following
efiect 1 hat it should be recommended to the le
gislature of the State to calfa
coavention of the people-os that State, in
order to adopting and ratifying the fedora; cor
ltitution agreeably to the recommendation of the
late Congress. jvir. Beiil'on observed, that th
communications which had been received from
the executive of Rhode-Hland, refpetfting the pro
ceedings ofthat State upon the Conltitution, had
hot been noticed by the late Congress, in as much
as they had not followed their directions in the
mode of deliberating upon tnefubjetft.— He sup
posed, that an interference of Congress in foiric
such way as he proposed, might be proper to as
certain whether any tiling decisive had been done
by them in the business or not.
Mr. Baldwin from the committee appointed
on Monday last, to form an eftii,,ate of the con
penfation which it may be proper to allow 7te
Prefidenl, Vice-President, Senators and Reprefenta
fives of tlie United States, reported, that the sum
of twenty thousand dollars per annum, be allowed
The president, exclusive of thelalaries of Secreta
ries, Aids and Clerks—That be allowed
to defray the expenses of houfhold furniture, car
riages, &c. and for keeping the fame in repair.
That five thousand debars per annum, be allow
ed to the Vice-Prefident.
That the Speaker of the House of Representa
tives be allowed twelve dollars per day—and the
members of the Senate and House, fix dollars each
per day ; and fix dollars for each days travelling
cxpenfes, reckoning twenty miles to a dav.
This report was laid upon the table.
Mr. Smith (ofSouth-Carolina) introduced his
motion for the appointment of a committee, to
to bring in a bill for the establishing a permanent
system respecting bankruptcy, throughout the
United States.—This motion having palled in
the affirmative, Mr. Smith, Mr. Lawrance, and
Mr. Ames ,were appointed a committee, accord
ingly.—Adjourned.
Tdesday, June 2.
On motion of Mr. Pag t, it was voted unani
nioufiy, that those members who had not taken
the oath required by the Conltitution, lhould be
called 011 to attend the Speaker, for that-pur
pofe—accordingly eighteen members appeared,
and had the oath administered to them ;—after
which the Speaker administered the requilite
oath to the Clerk of the House.
Mr. Baldwin, from the committee appointed
to bring in a bill, or bills, pursuant to the reso
lution for instituting the three subordinate exe
cutive departments, reported two bills—One for
the arrangement of the War Department—the
other for the Depart?ner.t of Foreign Affairs
Tliefe bills provide in fubflance, for bringing
under the direction of these Departments, by
orders from the President, those national ob
jects which had come within their cognizance,
under the old Confederation.
It was voted, that 100 copies of these bills be
flruck off, for the accommodation of the mem
bers.
The House then refolvcd itfelf into a com
mittee of the whole; and rcfumed the bill tor
the collection of the revenue.
On motion, it was voted, that the considera
tion of the two fir ft articles, fliould be poitponei;
the third article, which is in these words, viz
" That there jhall a/so he confiituted the
ports, which Jhall he ports both of entry and delivery,
to wit was taken tip —when Mr. Livermork
proposed, that
Portsmouth, in New Hampshire, should beoneoi
the poits of entry and delivery,to fill up the blank.
Machias and Portland were next mentioned; up
on which many oblervations were made by differ
ent members—chiefly with res ';>ec r t to the number
of ports for entry and delivery, which it might be
ueceliary to constitute : The committee appear
ed to be divided in sentiment ; and fonie gentle
men having observed, that they were not fuflicient
prepared to decide what ports would be 1110 ft l ol '
table in the several States, it was moved, that the
committee should rife, and make the furthered]-
lide; ation of the bill the order of the day for to
morrow.
The vote on this motion being taken, it
in the negative.
The Committee- then proceeded in filling ll ?
the blank, wlientlie following ports were agreed
upon, viz.
Portsmouth, in Newhampjhire.
Portland, ")
Newbury port,
Gloucester,
Salem, i
Marblehead,
Boston, }. Mafachufe"'-
Plymouth,
Dighton,
New Bedford,
Sherburne, Nantucket, .
New London,
New Haven, K Connecticut. >
Norwalk, J
City of New York, l r ,, T , TV*
Sag Harbour, State of A etui ■■
Perth Ainboy, T
Egg Harbour, I New Jerfiev.
Salem, j JJ '
Philadelphia, Pennfyhania.
Wilmington, Delaware.r he c o)n mittee tfien rose, and tlie Chairman
„.p/| I)l*o2^^
ie P 0 ' rioll was introduced and adopted, that
A r ' C " littee which had reported the bill for col
the f olll ®, e revenue , lhould be inftrueted to pre
lcCtl"gb;]l or bills, providing for the registering
?f C fl j,i 3 'aftertaining their lonnage, regulating
J-djourned.
NEIV-YORK, JUNE 3, 1789.
nr'filNAL, AUTHENTIC, and RECENT AC
-01 cOUNTS/ro/» EUROPE.
t-HESE ftate —That the change in France is such
we can form 110 idea of. The frivolities 01
roiiverfation have given way entirely to politics.
Men women, and children talk notning elie :
That the press groans with daily productions,
which in point of boldness, make an Engliftiman
st are who has hitherto thought liiinfelf the bol
tleft of men. A compleat revolution in the go
vernment of that country, has, within wvo years
/Winning with the Notables of 1 787) been effect
ed merely by the force of public opinion ; and this
revolution has not cost a single life :
That the allembly of the States' General was
to beain the -.:7th of April, in which the repre
sentation of the people will be perfect, but will be
alloyed by an equal number of the Clergy and
Nobility. The hrft question they will have to
decide will be, Whether they lhall vote by orders,
or by persons. It is fuppol'ed, upon good grounds,
that the majority of the Nobles arc already dilpof
odto join the Twrs Etat—in deciding that the vote
lhall be by persons ; this is the opinion a-la-mode
at present, and mode has acted a wonderful part
in the present instance : all the handsome young
women, for example, are for the Tiers Etat— and
this is an army, more powerful in France, than
000,000 men of the King ; add to this, that the
cpurt itfelfis for the Tiers Ei.it, as the only agent
that can call forth resources which, have hitherto
lain dormant in the hands of the non-contributing
orders :
That the King has engaged to relinquilh the
power of laying, continuing, or appropriating
taxes He has engaged also to call the S i'AT ES
GENERAL periodically—to l'ubmit Letters de
Cachet to lepal relti iction—to conlent 10 the free
dom of the prels ; and that all this lhall be fixed,
by a fundamental Confbitution, which lhall bind
his fuccellors :
That a participation in the Lcgillature will be
hi lilted 011—the public mind being l'o 1 ipened up
on all these subjeCts, that there leems now to he
but one opinion : That the C lergy, however, have
an opinion of tlieir own, and different from this—
also the old men among the Nobles ; but tlieir
voice is fupprefled among the general one of the
' nation :
That thewriiings which have been published
onthisoccafion, are some of them very valuable,
bccaule Unfettered by the prejudices under which
the Englilli labor. They give a full lcope to rea
foil, and strike out truths as yet unperceived, and
unacknowledged in Britain : An Englifliman, doz
ing under a kind of half-reformation, is not exci
ted to think, by such gross absurdities as Hare a
frenchman in theface wherever he looks,whether
it be towards the throne, or towards the altar.
■ It appears upon the whole, that France will
''nave as full a portion of liberty dealt our to her as
ihe can bear at prefent,confideringhow uninform
ed the mass of her people is : This circumstance
may prevent an immediate eftablilhment of the
trial by jury.
The pallied state of the executive in England,
is a fortunate circumstance for France, a* it affords
them time to arrange their affairs internally : The
consolidation and funding of their debts, will give
France atredit which will enable them to do what
theypleafe.
It is pretty certain, that the war, for the present
year, will be confined to the two Empires and Den
mark, against Turkey and Sweden : Pruflia may
be engaged : The disturbances of Poland may
break out into overt aiits ; but it will be a power
divided in itfelf, and so of no weight. France and
England may be ready to take the iield next yeas.
The Engliih papers, and the Englilli ministry
fay their King is well. He is better ; but not well.
•No malady requires a longer time to ensure a-
its letum, than insanity : Time alone can
difb accidental insanity from habitual lu
nacy. ,
That nation, however, lias in its own true stile,
run into all the extravagance of expensive re
joicings on this event : How far this spirit lias
been aided by the reflection, that Mr. Pitt, ill
consequence, is to continue at the head of
may not be difficult to determine ; certain it is, 110
minister was ever more popular—nor held that
popularity upon more independent principles.
The Emperor of Germany has made iminenf e
preparations for prosecuting the ensuing cam
paign ; but the people arc heartily tired of the
war, and anxioully waiting for peace, which by
recent accounts from Turkey there is reason
to expert the Porte is difpofedto sue for.
HUMOUR.
[The Humour of the following, will please those who know
the subject; especially as it evinces tint wit and good nature arc
perfe&ly compatible]
From the INDEPENDENT GAZETTEER.
On the Departure of MICHAEL DENNISON,* (for some years
Majlcr of the George Inn, Philadelphia) for England,
HIS hulk encreas'd by ale and venison,
Alas ! we soon must lose good Dcnuijon.
City of Pen* ' the loss deplore,
Although with pain his bulk you bore ;
And England! haste thy son to hail,
Who, alter weathering many a gale
Eager thv glories to behold,
Returns, improv'd in ftelh and gold.
Ah ! had it, Michael! been thy lot,
To boast the virtue of a Stot*
That land, where thou io great haft grown,
Might still !• -ve claim'd thee for her own.
Hut England, w'h pernicious tiniles,
Thoie ions, whom once lhe loft, beguiles,
Beckons them llyly to her ihore,
It worthy to be wafted o'er;
And by her foft, alluring strains,
Whate'er lhe loft in war, regains.
Soon as the planks beneath you crack,
The market {hall be hung With black ;
Michael! her stores might weil content ye;
In Britain none boasts greater plenty.
The bank lha!l with the market join,
To weep at once thee and thy coin.
Thy dollars, rang'd in many a pile.
Shall swell the pride of Britain's i(le,
Whllft England's bank (hall smiling greet,
The wealth which came from Chefnut-Jlreet.
Michael, farewell Heaven speed thy course ;
Saint George take with thee, and his horfe\
But to our hapless city kind,
The watchful dragon leave behind.
Michael! your wealth and fuli-fpread frame
Shall publilh Pennsylvania's fame
More loudly, than the pens of those,
Who long have puffed in verse or prose.
Few in mysterious science deal ;
But all men cither C*- or feel.
Michael, farewell When in Carlijle t +
I laugh to think how thou wilt frnile
At all thedangers thou hast past,
Moor'd in fafe anchoring ground atlaft.
NOTES.
* The counterpart in Jize oj a Fellow-Citizen, Mr. S.
+ Carlijle in Great-Britain.
INSCRIPTION.
T'nrrr arc now la\ ::. n - in the Wnr-Olficc, waiting the orders o!
he Heirs of the late General CiIIEEXE. twobrals Field Pi £c es,
n\ uoundci.s ; tin < uc!. ..1 which is the lollowing Infenpiion, or
nmertfd with wreaths of flowers, and the aims of the United
States, finelv executed in rclitvo—by Mr. Andiew Billings, ol
Poughkeepfif.
TAKEN
from the Britilh army,
and presented,
By Order of The Uuited States in Congress affcmblcd,
to
MAJOR-GENERAL GREENE,
as a monument
of their high sense of the
WISDOM—FORTITUDE—and MILITARY TALENTS,
which diftinguilhed his Command
In the Southern Department;
and of
The eminent Services,
which,
amidst complirated Dangers and Difficulties,
He performed for
Hlb COUNTRY,
october the ißt|i. 1783.
OF MACHINES AND MANUFACTURES.
of a letter from a gentleman m to n
rt -fid:> >: in v.. •; t'u middle St.-tcs cj; \e U>. Cx.t.-u i)th of I'd tj
ar\.> 1789.
'• Notwtthft;n«ding|tbe immenfc bankruptcies in Britain lall
year, yet Britain to my surprise, is in a very flourilhing v ay—
Ireland is alio rising fall, and never was in a more flourilhing
condition, owin:; to her extended and encreafing manufactures,
which (he has encouraged, not only by bountus, but by heavy
protecting duties. The Dublin society give at leaft/'. 25,00 c
llerl. per annum in premiums and bounties; and the trustees for
encouraging Hfheries and manufactories in Scotland, diftnbute
about £. 15,000 per annum.
•• Mills iof fpir.ninglong and combed wool have been eretted
at Dcrbv, Glasgow, See. and go by water—and a mill for fpin
niim flax and hemp by water, is crccied at Dr.rlington in the north
of England—When this lad comes to be general, I dont know
what the spinners of linen yarn in Scotland will do.
" Cotton and flax mills, arc cutting, where there is no
wati rto drive them, they are to go by Ream engine?. There are
jult now models of jenni s, or little hand machines, to spin 40 or
- threads at a time of linen yain, laid before the trustees office
Cloth now can be wove by one nvn, icvrn yards wide'
and an attempt is just now trying Lo make looms weave by wa"
ter.
" The improvements making in machinary in Britain, for the
rednflion of labour, arc vfrv in..ivy. In a count.y so full ol
I t'-.mk iruit be Haitinl at lii.i, but in America if h ma
chine* would be a great benefit.
» Your duri< s upon imported goods rf 2 4>ttC- — "i P CI
mi nrc karcely equal toour cuftom-houie tecs.—l am hopeful.
n-iw-MT, that your new government will lie the means ot ma
kin - yon more refpefted in Britain, where, though you are their
very i < !l cuftoroer, their papers are continually loading von with
opprobrious names, and delciibing you as in a very m:—. 1 fi
xation. .
" The Sunday fehools have been of great benefit in England
and Scotland.—The long peace, ?nd no account from the fle. t
that failed two years ago,fpr Botany Bay, make the number ol
vagrants, robbeis, &c. in Britain very great—The pnfons arc
lull."
The foregoing letter proves to the people of the United Stafts
the"incrcaling advantages of by machines; and at
this enfis it will be a great public fatisfadtion, to hear that tli
ingenious Mr. Robert Lcfl.e, a native of Maryland, has comman
r.d a museum in Philadelphia, for the purpose of collefhng every
model, drawinr. or defr ription, <j>f any machine, implement, or
tool, Wiich is employed in foreign countries, in manufartnix?
the ufeful arts. Mr. Lefltehu been some years a member m
•,e refpeftable company of vvrii h and clock makew in this city,
r.d has given fcveral proofs of dexterity and skill, in the cuiiou:
bufmefs of mechanism.
OF TITLES.
[From a Coirespondest.]
It lias been observed, that Titles are not neces
sary to confer power, or importance : 'l'liis has
been verified emphatically in the Eaft-Indk">—
where a ilmple Governour.-General has proved as
great a terror and scourge to the human race, as
the Molt High, Mod Puillant, and Mojl Omnipo
tent Son of Mahomet with a hundred titles ever did.-
The diftintftions of rank among mankind, nc--
ceflarily include certain Titles, by which ihof'..
diftiinftions may be known : These Titles origi
nate in reason, and are continued and ;>rrangt::i
by laws, by cultoin, and common consent : They
obtain W every country —in every society—'Whe
ther savage or civilized : From this original pro
pensity, implanted in our natures for some valua
ble purpol'e, mankind have been led (as in many
other initances) to gross conclufions—andbecaule
order and diftindtion were neceflary, they have
molt absurdly applied Titles, and Epithets ot dil
tin<ftion to their fellow wonns, which ihould be
appropriated only to Deity.—May we be so wife as
to draw a proper line of diltin<ftion, and not leave
this important fubjecc to chance, to whim, caprice,
or accident, to determine it—by which we may
incur a similar character with those we juftlydef
pife.
If it be true, that " a free people are the most
addicted to luxury of any"—how important is it.
that Government should make such arrangements,
as Ihould abate the fervor of this disposition, by
giving the most favourable direction to the inde
pendent impulses of the free born mind :—Li
terary lnftitutions—Arts—lnduftry—Commerce,
and Agriculture, form the most happy antidotes
to excessive luxury.
It were devoutly ro be wifived, fays acorrefpon
dent, that in the arrangement of the great De
partments of State, luore particularly of the Re
venue, we may be so fortunate, as to steer clear
of those mistakes, which contributed very much
to ihipwreck the power of Britain in America :—
Every person can re'colle(ft the hauteur of deport
bient, and the insolence of office, which marked the
whole chain of dependents, especially in the cus
toms, from the coinmiffioner's board down to the
humblest quill-driver at the delk.
It is characteristic of ignorance and coxcombifm
to affect a contemptuous, overbearing, haughty
carriage—and although it maypafs with impuni
ty for a time, as twenty defpi'ein silence, where
one exprcfles an open resentment ; yet it must be
considered as a nuisance, to have such characters
in office, as bring government into contempt,
and prove highly injurious to the public service.
As the majority of mankind discover their dif
qualifications for office, by exhibiting certain traits
of character that are hoftileto the public interest.
it is difficult to account for many appointments
that take place in various departments—for ai •
though great talents may be connected with a vi
cious mind, yet it will invariably happen, that the
former cannot compensate for the mifchiefs which
may prove the result of temptation to the latter.
In this cafe, how critically poized is the interclt
of the community.
In Maflachufetts, His Excellency Joh n Han
cock, is cliofen Governor, His Honor Samuf. !
Adams, Lieutenant-Governor ; and the Honorable
David Cobb, Speaker of tlieHoufe of Repre
sentatives.
About eighty members of the House and Se
3iate, returned this, were not in the Legislature
of Maflachufetts last year.
The Honorable Theodore Sedgwick, Esq.
is eletfted a member of the House of Representa
tives of the United States—by this event, the ve
prefentation from Maflachufetts is compleated.
The R lyal Society of London have lately ele&ed the Hnnorabir.
J ames Bonvdoin, Esq. of Boston, a member of their illuftrior.'
body, and a Diploma, -we are informed, was received by
Scott. ________________
ARRIVALS.
At the Port of iltto-Yirk.
Saturday. Schooner Little lofeph, Miner, Wa{hington,N.C
Sloop Maria, Elliott, Charleston. 11 days.
Sloop Aurora, Cahoone, Rhode-Island. 2 days.
Sloop Peggy, Cahoone, Rhode-Ifla 114.. 2 days.
Sunday. Shipßetfey, Faith, Jamaica.
Sloop Lively, Tanner, Philadelphia. 3 days.
iUntla- . Sloop Betsey, Burrows, Philrdelp'.iia. 12 days.
Tctfiay. Sloop Be;tfey, Brooks, Philadelphia. 6 days.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
PHILADELPHIA.
. ijifl? exchange,. Londpn, 90 days", 7c
Ditto, 60 days, .
Ditto, 30 days, . ■ 74
Amfterd'am, 60 days, per guilder, gjf
30 flays, x -> ■ 3/1
France,- 60 days, per 5 livres, 7? 1
3° da y s i
CURRENT PRICE OF PUBLIC SECURITIES.
Depreciation funded,and > KCtrJ i n i , nterr fi die 6/6-7/6
militia or state debt, y J
Depreciation unfunded, C>f
New loan, [according to intcrcjl due) Af xQ —5v4
Common L.ind-Officc certificates, on par & intereit, ,5 f
Land-OFRce certificates, for patenting, ,7j6
State money of 133 1-3 to 140 tOr 100
Continental ctrufxczus (indented to Qecetnber 1787) &T
Indents or Facilities, 3
P.iper money of Pennsylvania *4 perccnt difcouiu. • £
Ditto of Jcrfey, 33 to 35 difcounuThe RIGHT GOVERNMENT of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
[Continuedfrota our
But we mult not rely upon these general obier
vations alone : let us descend to a particular con -
federation of our author's exanlples, in every one
of which he is very unfortunate. The retirement
ofCincinnatus to the country was not his choice,
but his ncceflity : Csff'o, his son, had offended the
. people by an outrageous opposition to tlfeir holieit
Struggles for liberty, and had been fined for a
crime ; the father, rather than let his bondfincn
luster, paid the forfeiture of his recognizance, re
duced himfelf to poverty, and the neceflity of re
tiring to hisfpadeor plough. Didthe people in
treat and force hiin back to Roipe ? No; it was the
senate in opposition to the people, who dreaded
his high ariflocratical principles, his powerful
connections, and personal refentnients. Nor did
he difcovcr the least reluctance to the service or
dained luni by the fenatc, but accepted it without
> hesitation. All this appears in Livy, clearly con
tradictory to every sentiment of our author.* At
another time, when disputes ran so high between
the tribunes and the senate, that seditions were
apprehended, the senators exerted themselves in
the centuries for the election of Cincinnatus, to
the great alarm and terror of the people, f Cincin
nati, in short, although his moral character and
private life were irreproachable among the ple
beians, appears to have owed his appointments to
office, not to them, but the Senate ; and not for
popular qualities, but for ariftocratical ones, and
thedetermined opposition of himfelf and his whole
family to the people. He appears to have been
forced into service by no party ; but to have.been
as willing, as he was an able, instrument of the
senate. In order to fee the inaptitude of this ex
ample in another point of view, let the question
be alked, What would have been the fortune of
Cincinnatus, if Nedham's " right constitution"
had then been the government of Rome ? The
answer muftbe, that he would have loft his elec
tion, most probably even in the representative as
sembly : most certainly he would never have been
consul, dictator, or commander of armies, because
he was unpopular. This example, then, is no
argument in favor of our author, but a strong one
against him.
ff we recollect the character and actions of
Curius, we lhall find them equally conclusive in
favor of balanced government, and against our
author's plan. M. Curius Dentatus, in the year
of Rome 462, obtained as consul a double triumph,
for forcing the Samnites to sue for peace. This
nation, having their country laid waste, fenttheir
prinripal men as anibaflaclors, to offer presents to
Curius for his credit with the senate, in order to
their obtaining favorable terms of peace. They
found him fitting on a ltool before the fire, in his
little house in the country, and eating his dinner
out of a wooden dish. They opened their deputa
tion, and offered him the gold and silver. He
answered them politely,but refufedthe prefents.f
He then added somewhat which at this day doca
not appear so very poliilied : " I think it glorious
to command the owners of gold, not to poflefs it
myfelf." And which paflion do you think is the
worfl, the love of gold, or this pride and ambition ?
His whole estate was seven acres of land, and he
laid once in alleinbly, " that a man who was not
" contented with seven acres of land, was a per
" nicious citizen." As we pass, it may be proper
to remark the difference of times and circumstan
ces. I low few in America could escape the cen
sure of pernicious citizens, if Curius's rule were
eftabliihed. Is there one of our yeoman content
ed with seven acres ? How many are discontent
ed with seventy times feveh ! Examples, then,
drawn from times of extreme poverty, and a state
of a vcrry narrow territory, should be applied to
our circumstances with greatdifcretion. As long
as the aristocracy lasted, a few of those rigid cha
racters appeared from time to time in the Roman
senate. Cato was one to the last, and went ex
pretsly to visit the lioufe of Curius, in the coun
try of the Sabines ; was never weary of viewing
it, contemplating the virtues of its ancient owner
and defil ing warmly to imitate them. But, though
declamatory writers might call the conduct "of
Curius " exciUliJJima Rojtiaiiee frugalittitis tiorvia
it was not the general character, even of the sen
ators, at tliat time : avarice raged like a fiery fur
nace in the minds of creditors, most of whom were
patricians ; and equal avarice and injustice in the
minds of plebeians, who, infteadof aiming at mo
derating the laws against debtors, would be con
tent with nothing short of a total abolition of
debts. Only two years after tins, viz. in 465, so
tenacious were the patricians and senators of all
NOTES.
* Plefria concur fus in gens suit: fed ea, nequaquatn, tam lotta
Quinlium vidit; ci imperii nimirtim, et virum, in ipfo imperto
vehementiorem rata. Liv. lib. iii e. 26.
H- Summo patrum studio, L. Quintius Cincinnatus, pater Cefo
nis, consul creator, qui ftiagiftratunt ftatim accipcret, perculfa erat
< pr®bs cdnfulcm habitura, iratum, potentem favore patrum, virtute
iua, tribus liberis, Sec.
J Val. Max. iv. 1. Cic. deScncc. $5. Senec. Epift. v. Cic.
pro Flacco, 28. Plin. Nat. xviii. e. '
lIi«. rigor of their power over debtors, chat V eu
rius, the foil of a consul, who had been reduced by
poverty to borrow money at an exorbitant inter eh,
was delivered up to his creditor; and that infamous
uiiirer, C. Plotius, exacted from him all the servi
ces of a Have, and the senate would grant 110 re
lief : and when he attempted tofubjeCfc his slave
to a brutal passion, which the laws did not toler
ate, and scourged him with rods becauie he would
not submit, all the punifliment which the consuls
and senate would impose onPlotius vrasimprilbn
inent. Tliis anecdote proves, that the indiffer
ence to wealth was far from being general, either
among patricians or plebeians ; and that ic was
confined to a few patrician families, whole tena
cioulhefs of the maxims and manners oftlieir an
ceftorsproudly transmitted it from age to age. In
477 Curius was consul a l'ecoud time, when the
plague, and a war with Pyrrlius, had lalted lb
long as to threaten the final ruin of the nation, and
obliged the centuries to clioofe a severe character,
not bccaufe he was beloved, but becauie his vir
tues and abilities alone could save the ltate. The
austere character of the consul was accompanied
by corresponding austerities, in this time of ca
lamity, in the cenlors, who degraded several
knights and senators, and among tlie relt Ruhnus,
who had been twice consul and once dictator, for
extravagance and luxury. Pyrrlius was defeated,
and Curius again triumphed: and because a con
tinuance of the war with Pyrrhus was expected,
again ele&ed consul, in 478. In 480 he was cen
sor. After all, he was lb little beloved, that an
accusation was brought againlt him for having
converted the public spoils to his own ui'e ; and he
was not acquitted till he had sworn that 110 part
of them had enteredhis house but a wooden bowl,
which he used in facrifice. All thel'e sublime vir
tues, and magnanimous aiflions of Curius, make
nothing in tavor of Nedham. He was a patrician,
a senator, and a consul; he had been taugnt by
ariftocratical ancestors, formed in an ariftocrati
cal school, and was full of ariftocratical pride.
He does not appear to have been a popular man,
either among the senators in general, or the ple
beians. Ilufinus, Ids rival, with his plate and
luxury, appears to have been more beloved, by his
being appointed dictator. Notwithstanding that,
the cenlors, 011 the prevalence of Curius's party,
in atiineofdiftrefs, were able to disgrace him.
It was in 479thatthe senate received an embaf
fy from Ptolemy Pliiladelplius, king of Lgypt,
and sent four of the principal men in Rome, »•.
Fabius Gurges, C. Fabius Piftor, Numer. Fabius
Piftor, and Q. Ogulnius, ambaliadors to J£gypt,
to return the compliment. Fabius, who was
at the head ol the embafly, was prince of the senate,
and 011 his return reported their commiflion to
the senate : laid that the king had received tlieiu
in the 111 oil obliging and honorable manner: that
he had sent them magnificent presents 011 their
arrival, which they had defil ed him to excufethem
from accepting : that at a fealt, before they took
leave, the king had ordered crowns of gold to be
given theixi, which they placed upon liisftatues the
next day : that on the day of their
king had given them presents far more magnifi
cent than the former, reproaching them, in a molt
obliging manner, for not having accepted them :
thele they had accepted, withmoft profound ref
pee r t, not to offend the king, but that, 011 their ar
rival in Rome, they had depolited them in the
public treasury: that Ptolemy had received the
alliance of the Roman people with joy. The se
nate were much pleased, and gave thanks to the
ambalfadors for having rendered the manners of
thePiomans venerable to foreigners by their sin
cere disinterestedness : but decreed, that the rich
presents depojited in the treasury Jhould be rejlored ttj
and the people exprelied their fatisfadtioji
in this decree, fhefe presents were undoubted
ly imnienfely rich ; but where was the people's
care to make the service a burthen ? Thanks of tilt
senate are 110 burthens ; immense presents in gold
and silver, voted out of the treasury into the hands
of the ambaliadors, were no " slender advantages
" °fprofit or pleasure," at a time when the na
tion was extremely poor, and no individual in it
very rich. But, moreover, three of these am
bafladors were Fabii, of one of those few simple,
frugal, ariftocratical families, who neither made
advantage ot the law in favor of creditors, to make
great profits out of the people by exorbitant usury
on one hand, nor gave largefles to the people to
bribe their alfeCtion on the other: so that, although
they were respeCted and esteemed by all, they
were not hated nor much beloved by any ; and
fuili ij the fate of men of such simple manners at
this day in all countries. Our author's great mis
take lies in his quoting examples from a balanced
government, as proofs in favor of a government
without a balance. The senate and people were
at this time checks on each others avarice : the
people were the electors into office, but none, till
vei y 1 .ttly, could be chosen but patricians ; none
oi die senators, who enriched themfelvesby plun
dering the public of lands or goods, or by extra
vagant usury from the people, could expect their
v otes to be consuls or other magistrates ; and there
was no commerce or other means of enriching
themfelyes : all, therefore, who were ambitious
of serving in magistracies, were obliged to be
poor. To this constant check andbalar.eelc'.-vieen
the lenate and people, the production r.ixi the
continuance of tiiele frugal av.d fiwple i:. iciarl
characters and families appear to be owiV<,.
(To be continued.)
An ESSAY on FREE TRADE and FINANCES •
particularly fbcwiug what fupplisr of public Rev:.
nue may be drawn J rom Mercliandile, "attic::: in
juring our Trade or burdening our people.
[By a Citizen of Philadelphia is 1785.]
Having lately publilhed a dilTertation on ths*
political union nnd conftituticn, which is nectf
lary for the preservation and happlnti's in'the
Thirteen United States of North-America, i
go ontocoiilideriome of the great departments ot'
business, which mult fall under the niancremc;.:-
of the great council of the union, and ihcii clKce; s.
The firlt thing which naturally offers it;, n' . l 0
confideration,is the expence of government ; Uiii;
is a Jme qua uon of the whole, and ail its pz::z.
No kind of admininiftratiou can be carried on
without expence, and thefcale or degree oi'pLu
and execution mult ever be limited by it. iwo
grand considerations offer themselves here. (~)
The ejiit/tate oj tin exp4nc.es which government
and (2.) Such ways and means of -
tuoney to defray will Ire „iofl e.ify,
hurtful anil opprtjftvs to the ftbjefl.
The fir ft is not my prefenr principal object : I
lhall therefore only observe upon it, that tiie
wants of government, like the wants of nature,
are few, and ealily supplied; 'tis luxury wkicli
incurs the most expence, and drinks up the
fountains of l'upply, and what is most to be lament
ed, the fame luxury which drinks up the greatest
lupplies, does at the fame time corrupt thabocy,
enervate its strength, and waste thole pqweis
which are designed for use, ornament or delight.
The ways and means of l'upply are the object of
my principal attention at prefenr. 1 will pi eniiie
a few proportions which appear to me to defcTve
great conlideration here.
I. When a sum of money i> wanted, one way rf
rafng it may be much eajier than another. This :r.
equally true in states as in individuals. A Man
mult always depend for l'upply 011 those articles
which he can belt spare, or which he can dimuiiih
with least inconvenience : He fhov'd ii.lt fell
such articles as he has purpofeJy j rovided for
market; if thefeare not enough, then such articles
of his estate as he can belt spare, ahvavs fact in -
cing luxuriesfirft, and necella; les lalt of all.
11. Any intereji or thing whatever, on which !'.;
burden of tax is laid, is divis.iijbed either in yucu:i::y
or neat value, e.g. if money is taxed, part of tic-
Cam goes to pay the rax ; if lands, part of thepo
duce or price goes to pay it; if'goodsj part of the
price which the goods will fell for, goes to pay
it, &c. 0
111. Theconfumption oj any thing, on wricb '''
burthen oj tax is laid, will always be thereby teamed,
because l'uch tax will raise the price of the articles
taxed, and lewer people will be able or willing
to pay such advance of price, then would purchase,
if the price was not railed.: And confirquently
• The burden of tax ought to lie heavicji on such
articles, the hfe and consumption of which drs Iteji
necefary to the community, and iighteft on those ar
ticles, the use and coufumption cf which are tuofl >te
cejfary to the community. I think this so plain, that
it cannot need any thing said on it either by way
of illustration? or proof.
V. The jlaples of any country are both ths forrrcr
nnd measure of its wealth, and therefore ought to
be encouraged and increased as far as poliible.
No country can enjoy or confunie more than they
can raise, make or purchase. No country cart
purchase more than they can pay for; and no
country can make payment beyond the amount
of the surplus .which remains of their ftaplcs, af
ter their cons umption is fubftradted. If they go be
yond this, they mult run in debt, i. e. eat the
calf in the cow's belly, or consume this year the
proceeds of the next, whichisadire<ftfteptoruni,
and mult if (continued,) end in dell ruction.
VI. The great fiap/es of the United States, are
our HUSBANDRY, FISHERIES, AND MANUFAC
TURES. Trade comes in as the hand-maid of
them all-—the servant that tends upon them—the
liurfe that takes away their redundancies aud
supplies all their wants. Tliefe we may coiilldei'
as the great fburces of our wealth; and our trade,
as the great conduit through which it flows. All
thefewe ought i 1 found policy to guard, encou
rage and increase as far as poliible, aruvto load
them with burdens and embarraflments as little
as poliible.
THE PRESIDENT'; HOUSEHOLD.
W HERE AS. all Servants and o.hcrs. employed to pro
provifaons, or supplies, for the Houfebold, of The Presides"
ot lite Un t t feft St at esj w, 11 be fornilhed with monies for those
puipoies. Notice is therefore given, That no accounts. f'''.. tne
p iymcntoi which the Public might be confidei ed ivUXH .V'-i
ire to be opened with any of thein.
Samuel Fraunces, Steward of the Houfciiold.
May 4th, 1789.
rr!iirTu C n' n & U J' e " s f rom the '"g'"'-'"g. of the GAZFJ tt. 01 THt
rir 7 r * m *V at an\ time be obtainedh those tdho chujt U
jubjvribc Jor that publication, at the Editor s Office, Ne. O.
Published by JOHIO'Ef) NO~No7 97" Maj'- • ■
Lane, near the Oswsco-Markit, Ne v-Yosk.