[No. XXII-]
THE tablet.
No. XXII.
,< There are impertinent books as well as impertinent
pen."
rv firnie persons are prevented from acquiring
I uftful knowledge by their intellectual inca
itv • there are others, who pollefhng talents,
?•, nf'important attainments by wearing away
'ir t i m e in trivial studies. A person generally
V Lfpshc cives a fatisfadlory account of employ
;!fbhnfelff when he can fay he has been enga
-lin reading. He may however deceive hnn
as well as others in this reipetft. It is not
more common or more disagreeable to find men
deficient in their ideas, from a neglect of books,
than it is to observe them bloated with notions
that are falfc or frivilous, by an injudicious choice
of authors. An acquaintance of mine, who is
celebrated for his literary tafle and ingenuity,
invited me the othermorning to lookat his libra
ry which is said to be an excellent one If no
velty ?Wes a claim to merit, iny friend deserves
irreat prajfe for his collection of books ; for he
certain! v has filled his shelves with iuch perform
ances as scarce any man but himfelf would ever
think'of purchasing. After expatiating upon a
variety of authors I had never heard of, and a
still Jreater number I had never read, he told
roe he had taken iuunenfe pains to ascertain evs
- minutecircumftance relative to the building
of Noah's Ark. No liiflory either facrecl or pro
fane, that threw any light upon that interesting
lubje'tft, had escaped his notice. It is, he said, to
beregietted that the particulars of that celebra
ted work of antiquity are not more generally
known. The vast delight he had found- in his
rclearches, lie allured me, were not to be descri
bed. As I considered myfelf nfelefsly employed
in hearing his my readers will make
the fame remark, if this ellay communicates a
conversation so unimportant. My friend inform
ed roe of many other, what he called, curious
discoveries or attainments ; and his pride i'eem
edto coufift in knowing what none of his ac
quaintance knew, or had any inclination to
know.
The design of reading is not so much to en
creafe the quantity of our knowledge as the pio
prietyand utility of it.—Men of leisure, who
have patience otirive (ligation, may perhaps em
ploy tliewfelyes in useless enquiries without pro
ducing any hurtful effects ; indeed they may
happen to ill ike upon foine difcovery,from which
benefit will result. But where such an ardor of
curiosity prevails to pufli people into refcarches,
from which no practical advantage is derived,
it difqualifies them for acftive pursuits in life.
Itfhouli be an eftablil}ied rule with every per
lon who rebels, to enquire of himfelf, when he
lays aside his book ; firllly, whether he has gain
ed any ideas at all ; and secondly, whether they
are just and ufeful. To read, and yet to acquii e
no ideas, is at any rate a inilpcnce of time ; but
the mere loss of time is not io pernicious as to
catch sentiments that are fallacious or trifling,
t will close this number with an extract from a
fen'ible author, who in touching upon this fub
jeft makes the following remarks.
" Did\ u/us the gramarian wrote four thou fan d
biahi; wherein he is much concerned to discover where
Homer was horn ; who was JEnc^s's true vioiher ;
'ud whether Anacreon was the greater whore tnafler
or drunkard, with other fopperies, that a mart would
ilhir to forget if he knew them Is it not an impor
tant qucjiiou which of the two was firfl, the mallet or
the tings ?■ Strwe people are extremely inquifttive to
how ho-jj many oars Ulyjfes had ; which was firjl
"Mitten, the liliads or the Odyffes; or if they were
'nth done by the fame hand. A man is never a jot
ssre learned for this curiosity, hut much more trou
'ltftme. Am I ever the more jt'/i, the more moderate,
valiant, or liberal,for knowing that Curius Denta
tjiyes the fir J! that carried eltphanis in triumph ?
l ach vie my duty to provide/zee, to my neighbor, and
to Kyfelf ; to dispute with Socrates ; to doubt with
'tniifdes ; to set up my rtfi with /.picurus ; to mcf
appetite with the Stoics ; and to renounce the
"'ttJ vith the Cynic. What a deal of bufneji there
"> W, to make Homer a pliilofopher ; andfecotid
},i" tuhat clafles to range hint ? One will have him
'^".ultoic, a friend to virtue, and an enemy to plea
a P re -f tr '"g honesty even to immortality itfelf :
"^f r '"akes him an Epicurean ; one that loves his
I ! 'J e a,'dt'jfpend his time in good company : Some
' j in it, that he was a Peripatetic ; and
"at e was a Sceptic. But it is clear, that
Th r"j- a -l these things he was not any one «/' them,
gi.'. opinions do not at all hinder as from
th( main, that he was a wife man.
' rr f ore apply ourselves to those thtr.ps that
dc and even let the reft ale ne.''
SATURDAY, June 27, 1789.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF 1 CONGRESS.
In the Houfc UNITED STATES
Thursday, June 18, 1789.
The question. Whether the Setretary of Foreign AJfairs Jhould he
re moveable by the President? still under consideration.
Mr. White. This question has occasioned a solemn debate,,
tho' some gentlemen have confidcred it so clear or so trivial as to
excite their surprise, that it has again been brought before the
house. I consider it as the moil important question that has been
yet considered ; the molt important that I ever had a voice in dif
ufling or a vote in determining, except that of adopting the constitu
tion itlelf in the convention of Virginia. I confidcr the day on which
the sense of the house is to be taken on this fubjeft as a memorable
day in the annals of America. Sir, Ido not consider it is limply
whether the power (hall be vested in the President, or in the Preli
rtent and Senate, The constitution has determined that point.
Nor do I consider the question to be whether offices are to be
held during good behaviour, or at the pleasure of thtfe who ap
point them. I suppose that on a fair and necessary confti utlion oi
the constitution, that matter is fettled. All arguments tending to
(how that one or the other mode ot appointment or removal, is pro
per or improper, or that they ought to be difpatced by impeach
ment, are inapplicable to the present cafe. But the refpe£tabflity
ot the characters who support these arguments entitle them to
notice.
I shall procecd, Sir, to enquire, whether we are bound by the
constitution, or whether we may grant to others, or aliume to our
lelves, powers which the constitution has not given in exprels
terms, or by necessary implication? This I conceive to be the
qutftion.
It is not contended that the power proposed to be vested in the
Prelident is given him in express terms, or thatit can be inferred
from any particular clause of the constitution. It is fought for
from another source, the general nature of executive power; it is
011 this principle the clause is advocated, or I mistake the gentle
man's argument. It was said by the gentleman, who opened
the debate in opposition to this amendment, that the constitution
having vested the President with a general executive power, the're
by allthofe powers werevefted which were notexprefsly excepted,
and therefore he possessed the power ot removal. Sir, this is not
to be learned in the American governments. Each state has an ex
ecutive magifti ate ; but look at his powers and I believe it will not
be found that he has, in anyone, the right of appointing or remov
ing officers. In Virginia I know that all the great officers are
appointed by the General Ailembly. Tlr.s is generally the fact in
other states. If then the doCtrine of the gentleman is to be tup
ported by examples, it mult be by thoft brought from beyond the
Atlantic—We must also therelook for rules, by which the executive
power, in the latitude of this principle, may be circumscribed, if
indeed it can be limited. Upon this principle,fir, the fame power
is given to thekgiflaturr—they will poflefsall powers not express
ly excepted. If the President has all executive powers which are
no,t expressly excepted, I do not know that there can be a more
arbitrary government. The President, I conceive, will have all the
power ot a monarch ; and the legiflatureall the powers of the most
sovereign legislation. This I take to be a clear and necessary de
duction from the principle on which the clause in the bill is
founded- The President is limited in the appointment of ambaf
ljdors,confuls, judges,and all other officers, and in making treaties.
In these he is expressly limited, and no turther. Take from him
these, and give him all other executive powers, as exercited in
• monarchy, and fee what they will be. There are a!fo eXcep
t '.oivs *o the legislative power ; tuch as that thev shall not tor a time
prohibit the importation of slaves; that direct taxes (hall not be
i-i id, but in a certain mode ; that taxes (hall be uniform ;
'.it *.h( 'v shall grant no titles ot nobility, &c. Ihefe are the
1 xcepti.ins to the legislative : Now givethem all the powers of the
parliament of Great-Aritein, and what kind of government will
you have ? I can not describe it. It appears to me absolute and
a$ extentive as any despotism.
It you go once beyond the boundaries of the constitution where
ran you draw a line with any precision ? and with what fafety to
liberty canthe doctrine of thisclaufe be tupported. I understand
our system different in its form and !pir:t from all other govern
ments in the world. It is in part national and partly federal ; and
though it is moreextenfivc in its powers than most other confedera
ted governments, vet the Congrcfs is not to be compared to nati
onal k giflatures.—To these, general powers aregranted, some with
and some without any particular reservations in tavour of the body
of the people'; and to those only will the gentleman's reasonings
apply.—Here is no analogy.—This is * government constituted
for particular purposes only ; and the Dowers which the people
have thought proper to grant are tpecifically enumerated, and dis
posed of among the various branches, if thete powers are inef
ficient, or if they are improperly difttibuted, it is not our tauh,
nor within our power to remedy. —The people must grant further
power ;—organize those already granted in a more perte£t mannei,
or fuilcr from the deteCt. Wc can neither enlarge nor modity
them.
vSir, this was the ground on which the friends of the govern
ment have fupportrd it ;it was a fate ground,and I venture to la\
that it would not have been tupported on any other. In the State
from which I came, it its advocates had not maintained this prin
ciple, it would never have been ratified.
Mr. White then read a part of the ratification by Virginia, in
support of this afTertion.
Sir, said he, how far the eftabli'hment of the principle con
tended for may affect the completion of our Union, I will not
undertake to fay : I will only remark that the State of North-Ca
rolina has exprefled nearly the fame ientynents as Virginia,
this difference, that Carolina would not adopt the constitution tnl
it was Satisfied of this principle, that we could not by construc
tive a£ts enlarge our powers, in order at a future day to dellioy
the State governments, and with them the liberties ot the people,
Sir, I could likewifc fugged to gentlemen the local situation ot
that country. It is contiguous to kentuckey, which united to
Carolina, form a territorv of amazing extent from the Atlantic to
the banks of the Ohio. 'The people qf this trad are in such a situ
ation as that, a single spark from this house would kindle a flame
which it would be difficult if not impoflible to extinguifli ; and
excite such a dread as would render them utterly irreconcilcable
to our government.
Sir, this is not a vain because the oppofers of the
constitution founded their arguments upon it—They contended
that you would make conftruitions in your favor, and atTume
powers not intended to be vested in you by the people. I with,
Sir, my apprehensions may be ill founded, and contradicted by
the.event. The measure proposed, I acknowledge, is advocated
by refpi ftnble friends to the Union within these doors, and by
many without. But I believe much of this arifesfrom the clause
in question conferring the power on a m an > whom all the world
admires, and who they kilowwill not abufeit. But, Sir, on this
occasion I forget who is President ; but I do not # forget that the
worst of precedents are often cftablifhed in the best of turns. We
may give the power to a particular man in office, because he will
not abHie it: but we cannot take away that power from those who
[Published on IV td/iefday and Saturday.]
may fuccced him. Ido not mean to irifer from this, thai if the
constitution had vested the power in the President, it would be
improper he should have it. That is a question which I will not
undertake to determine. It is unneccflary ; the true question be
fore us being (imply a constitutional one.
Without entering into a detail of the evili that may arise, as
gentlemen have df>ne on both fides of the Houfej let us consider
whether the greater evil will rtot arise from our explaining the con
stitution at this time; Is there any neceflity for it ? If the condi
tion has given the power to the President, can he not exercise it
without our paflingan a&on the fubjett ? Will not the clause be
useless ? It the constitution has not given it him, shall we go be
yond the limits that are set usjin order to extend it to him ? I hope
not. But it seems to be a doubtful point : Some think he has
the power ; others not. Then, Sir, I would leave the construc
tion to himfelf. If it should become necefTary to exercise the
power, let him do it : The Occasion for the exercise of it will be
a better comment than any we can give—lt will better explain it
o the people, and reconcile them to it more perfectly than any
law from the legislature*
It the neceflity of the cafe compel him td exercise the power,
even if wrong, the people will acquiesce. I will give you an ex
ample, Sir: In Virginia, when the operations of the war requir
ed exertions ot the chief magistrate, beyond the authority of the
law, our late governor Nelson, wliofe name must be dear to eve
ry triend to liberty, was obliged to iflue his warrants and impress
supplies for the army. Though it was known that he exceeded
his authority,- his warrants were executed ; his country was be
nefited by this resolute measure, and he himfelf afterwards in
demnified by the legiftature. Sir, I do not wish to encourage
adts of this kind, but I lay it Would be better for the executive to
assume the exercise of such a power on extraordinary occasions,
than tor us to delegate to him an extraordinary power to be cx
ercifed on all occasions;
Some gentlemen have supposed that the constitution has made
no provilion for the removal of officers; and they have called it
an omitted caie, and a detect. They ask, if we inay not supply
that defetk ? I answer, no. For if we can make any pofltble al
teration, we may go on and make the constitution just what we
please. But as a further anfvrer, I fay, it is not an omitted cale.
F r the constitution havingdirefctcd by whom officers lhall be ap
pointed, it does diredl alio by whom they (hall be removed. Ti.at
doctrine was so well supported by a gentleman yefterdav, that I
will not repeat. Sir, this must have been in the contemplation ok
the gentlemen who formed the constitution. Is it probable that
ihey never thought about the maimer in which an officer should
be displaced ? When they provided that the judges ihould hold
their offices during good behaviour, did they not intend that all
others should be held during pleasure ? It is not then an omitted
cafe.
Gentlemen have supposed that the Prefid<*it may suspend, an.d
that as he has a right to make a temporary ippointment, he has
also a right to make a temporary removal. 1 think he has so, as
it is correspondent with his power of appointing. But it has been
said that it the concurrence of v the Senate is ncceffary, they may
retufe to concur when a removal is necefTary.- Sir, it you are to»
suppose that ihe government cannot be executed in its piefent
form, there is no leinedy for such a misfortune; but we arc not
to luppoie it—We are to presume that the Senate will do their du
ty —You may go on without end in supposing. You may lup-*
po£e that the JPrefident may not do what is rignt—You may even
suppose that this House will not do what is rightr What is the
contequcilce ? Why, our constituents must bear with us nil they
have an opportunity for a remedy. But ihall we* becarufe the
Senate may do wrong, give the Present a power ta att without
them. We may as well, Sir, if the Senate retufe to concur m a
favorite bill ot this Houle, proceed to pass the law without them.
But it has been asked, whether a person in the elevated station ot*
Piefident would probably abuse histruft? I presume he will not j
neither do I ptefuine the Senate wilL
A gentleman, Sir, in order to get over the obje&ions made to»
the clause, had recurred to that part of the constitution, which
lays, that Congress may bylaw vest the appointment ot inferior
officers iu the President, in the courts of law, or heads of depart
ments, and has interred that he is to be considered himfelt the
head and center of all those departments. This comes from one
whom I always hear with pleasure, on account of his found rea
son and perspicuity of exprcflion, But, Sir, I must differ with
him. Who are the heads of departments? We have a secretary
for foreign affairs; another of the treasury, <scc, Now are not
these the principal officers in thofo departments f If they arc, they
are the heads. Who are the inferor officers ? The chief clerks,
and all who may depend upon them. The gentlemen who form
ed the constitution would not, it seems, give to the President
at all events the power of appointing these inferior officers to
which that of removal is attached.
Sir, when I set out with faying that the constitution is the pre
cise limit to the deliberations of this body, it may, at fir ft view,
appear 111 onfiftent with what I have said refpe£ling conftru&ioos,
But, Sir, I fay that when a thing is granted in general terms, that
which in its own nature is attached to it, must go with it, with
out particular explanation. Without this principle, Congrefi*
could not execute the fy(lein. To make this clear, the conltitu
tion authorises the government to appoint supreme and inferior
judges. By natural and necessary conllruttion therefore, the le
gislature may fay, how many judges there shall be; how often
and where they shall hold their terms, and what their salaries
Ihallbe. These are natural and fafe conftru&ions —Butconftruc-
tions of every other kind are beyond the limits of the constitution.
Sir, I shall trouble the committee no longer. I should not
perhaps have troubled them so long ; but on a matter of such great
importance, one which lies so heavy on my mind, and for which
I am so anxiously concerned, I could not avoid exprefling my
sentiments fully. lam, Sir, ftiongly impressed with the idea,
that the giving powers, which are not within the letter of the
constitution, will be to the people a circumftancc of alarm and
terror. [Daily Ad.~\
Mr. Pace observed, that he had quite different ideas upon the
clause in debate from gentlemen who supposed that it would en
creafe the refpoufibility of the President—He conceived that ma
king the heads ot departments dependent on him, would in a
great measure, destroy that refponhbility—lt would encreafe
the number of his dependants who would all be interested in sup
porting his admiijiftration, whether according to the principle*
of the constitution or not—and thus he would be hedged in on
every fide—and what then becomes of his refponhbility i The
clause of the constitution which provides that officers shall be
removed for high crimes and misdemeanors, plainly includes all
those officers and crimes which it is contended for, to make the
President the sole judge of.—The Senate is the bulwark of the so
vereignty of the States—They ought not only to have a voice in
the framing laws, but ought also to Ice to the execution of those
laws.
The retaining this clause in the bill, will excite tenfold cla
mours for amendments—lt will be confidercd as making; the
President an independent monarch.
Mr. SsdcwicK: It is contended, that this question is already
fettled by the constitution—That the power which gives, is the
only power tovake away, is true, if the delegation of power sup-poses all that which is requisite to the acquifnion of the object oT
the power. It has been contended on one iide,but is not conceded
on the other; that the power of is not veiled in
the Senate. I hat the Piefident is to nominate and appoint is
evident.—Treaties are to be made by the President, by and with
t.ic advice and confcntof the Senate—Dots the Senate make trea
ties ? But not to recapitulate arguments, it was upon another idea
(M. . Sedgwick observed that) he rose.
i. he institution of the office to be eltabliflied by this bill origi
nates in the idea of the incompetency of man. All the powers
neceiarily devolve upon the President which this officer is to b,
appointed to execut —hence the realon and propriety of the ab
solute dependence on, and responsibility of this oijicer to the Pre
iident. The executive department is extensive, and naturally d.-
videsitfelf into a variety of d fferent branches—.ll these branchc;
«'ie, or ought to be amenable to the chief magistrate, hence his
rc is greatly increased, provided the officers cf these
ieveral branches aie made dependent upon him—but can this re
sponsibility b • reasonably or justly expected of him, while the
persons executing the duties of these departments are independ
ent of him : The truth is, all these executive officers are as so
many auxiliaries-os the supreme executive, and therefore their
r-iponfibility is naturally resolved into that of the President as
cunflituent parts ol it : And without an entire depcndance upon
him the idea of responsibility in him is weakened and deilroyed.
In cases of incapacity and difqualification, which perhaps can be
known only by long acquantance and the frequent recurring of
evidence, what is to be done ? rrtuft the President before he
thall he relieved from the burden of such an officer,or the pub
lic ftrvicc placed in an eligible situation by difplaeing unsuitable
and introducing proper churaftcrs—l fay mult the Preiijentappeai
before a court of impeachment ? mud he be one party and the
aecufed another ? Let gentlemen consider whatmuft be then-full
of such a ,'r nation of things.
'1 he responsibility of the Senate is loft in contemplating the dif
ficulty of impeaching the members of a colleftive'body. It has
been said, that the judges are the only suitable persons to deter
mine this qiteftion ; but troin thc rcafoning ot others this point
is by no means clear : An appeal to the judiciary mull be conced
ed as foreign, and can not engage the serious attention of the
committee at the present moment.
Mr. I.ee replied to the various objeflions of Mr. White : He
then proceeded to state the merits of the qucftion, and observed,
1 .'iat it is a max : m in government, that the legislative, executive'
and judicial powers, should be kept fcparate anddiftintt as possible'
In the formation of the Constitution of the feveral'States, parti
cular attention has been paid to this essential point.
1 he Constitution under which this House is now fitting, is framed
upon the fame principle ; and it lays with this body to'kecp those
powers in that state of separation : It is of consequence that ihc
people ftiould form just ideas of these diftinft powers, and know
where they are severally dpofited, so that by this m -ans, the pub.
Jie jealousy may at all times reccivc a proper dire&ion : On this
the liberties of rhe people depend—that die bi anch
es which ir.vcfts them with the powers peculiar to their original
oeiign, is theonly way to create that responsibility, without which
the government never can be watched and guarded. Tins lefpon
-lhinty muftofneccffity reft principally with the executive branch;
Jt is in vain.to look for it in the other branches :It is that branch
yhich is naturally refprted to as the centre of this responsibility ■
" is congenial to the ideas which we connett with the inrtituti»n'
"t the office of Chief Magistrate ; it is implied in the very expref
lion : Now if theminifters of those departments which are created
to carry into crt'eft the great executive objeas of government, are
independent of he President, or are rendered accountable to the
joint control oi the Senate and the President, it is evident that the
idea of responsibility is dissipated, and in a great measure loft—
will tin be agreeable to the withes of the people? Uponthe whole
1 cannot fee the danger which gentlemen appear to apprehend from
tnat conftruftion of the Constitution which this clause is calculated
to give : On the-other hand it appear, to me perfectly consonant
to its (pint and design ; and it is the duty of the Houfs to uive a
denfive opinion on the cafe.
M.. Boudikot : I have, Sir, attended with the grcateft care to
the arguments which have been offered upon both fides of the sub.
vT rr C the committee, and from the wholeam convinced, that
thee.hcacy of th<*government depends on a just decision of this
question : I (hall always turo my attention to the Constitution
from v r 0n y dl ; tft ° r y ; 1 " nnot a S rer with thc CC"'lcman
Iron, \ irginia, that this Congress cannot with propriety explain
and modi,y the principles of thc Constitution ; for il this'is a fact
■wi h.v.-no bufmefs here : Congress lias a right to exefcife all the
so*' hl| t are rleducible from the Constitution :We are not to
be ins.ii, need by ratifications, or by the fcceding States: I contend
that th.s power is inverted in the President, and that it is the duty
this House to declare it: The powers of thcrefpeaive branches
_ught to be defined and separated : One great objettion to the
Constitution is, that the powers ar not properly separated.
Mr.. Boud.not then repeated the arguments upon .appropriating
e relpefl'^power;, and observed, that officers Were appoint- d
and corrnmffioncd by the President, and not by the Senate : The
ot icer at the head of the department of Foreign Affairs is to obey
leo ders of the President, and confcquently must be dependent
upon him, or else hu obedience cannot be commanded : If we
C to declare that the power of removal is
n the President, thaii we not leave our great executive departments
in confufion, and low the fccdsqlj.-aloufyanddiffatisfjflion among
a fuhftir™. r C "° f government ? Gentlemen have proposed as
fubfli.nte the power offufpenfion ; butthispowcr will be found
as e.xeep iiWable as the other, and liable to greatabufes. Thc Pre
retnf! .fill ca " t,ous , of unncceffHry removals ; the Senate may
refute to fill the vacancies ; what will be the consequence ? It is
painful to refit cf upon the fubjea in this point ofview : The pow
cr must then reft with the President ; it will be impossible for him
to perform thedutn s of his department without it.
fbU l rif ACKS i ON That the decision upon the clause in
this 1 ill involves the fate ot the other two, the War and Treafurv
n P ki' ! n !C k tS : ' lnd , u 1S evidrm) y the object of thc Bill to
eftablifhthc principle in the present instance, before thc department
of the Treafnry is brought forward. 1 tmLnt
I contend Sir, that the several branches of the Legislature are
plainly pointed out in the constitution ; and those of the P.efident
are particularly enumerated: The heads also of the several de
partmcnts ar. enumerated and designated as fcparate ; and the Pre"
lident is not confiderea as the head of the whole :Heis to receive
then atv ice and require their opinions in writing—this is the ex
orlnn "h""' 0 r' " £onft,t "' ion : If "'ey are then meerly parts
or appendages of the executive, this provision in the Constitution
will be nugatory. I l, C g leave to differ from gentlemen in re
gard to conftrua.ons-I consider then, as dangerous : The Con"
ftitution has pointed out these departments—Congress may arran
them; but this is different from confirm,,- ,he fvflem • Tf "
prefumc to define and conftruc the Constitution, there is no limus
o the bu.niefs; if one is made, we may go on from alpha to omc ~
The various branches cannot in the nature of thin-s be (a i- na ,£j
and independent as some gentlemen pretend : r ver t'o ,
excelb nt w, r Publms :He has proved that the Senate are arm
edl Wit" executive power; and on the other hand the IV. fident has
tended fe '? "■ Gentlemen have said, that thc power con
tended lor IS necellary to prevent a misapplication of the public
raonev .but I contend Sir, if we give this power to the Prefid.-nt
he Will have the l,be,ti ;s of the people,,, his hands ; for if the o-'
f.ccs lliould oppose his measures, however bad, he may difola',
them at.pleafuie—and whole hands will the Tneafury then fail in
to The pin It and ;he sword are paramount to all other confid i
ations : Give a man an upcontrolable dominion over these and
POt ' h ' m Wh " e wiU be V o '"
1 U h 'li bt l n fj ' d ' that , thc P^ wcr l'c!ngvefted in the Senate woul.l
be equally dangerous ; but lafk, where is the greater danger from
power, in the one, or the many ? The Senate is con.inually revert
ing to,the mafsot t lie people; the ilatt legislatures will be a check
ipon then?. The Pre/idem has already got the iworti—give him t lie
H-urfe with the army and navy, and what is ther left ? What can
■ no: do ? With the command of the public eheii, he would
• 1 ways be able to iecure his eledlion, and thus perpetuate li s
political exillence. Let us look round us this very moment, and
•e what strides we are making towards venality and corruption.
Ve already hearthehigh founding titlcsof His Highnefs,aad Molt
1 ionorable, whicu ttn years ago would have exalted a man to a lta
iou as hign os Hanun'i : These titles have been echoed
n the newfpapcis oi B >ftjn, a town which fifteen years since
would acknowledge lio King but the Lord of Holts.
Mr. Jackson further oblerved, that the principle lie had repuatcd
y advanced, refpethng the great departments being pointed out
inthc eonftitution fpecifically, and not as neceiTanly connected
with the Pre/ident, had not been attended to ; he called upon gen
' ' cm jn to ihew the fallacy of this pi incip e: It was clearly in his
mind, that it went to ihew the unconllitutionalily of delegating
tins power to the President; and he hop.d the clause would not
oe adopted by the committee.
Mr. Scott : I have listened with great attention to the debates
upon this question, and putting the arguments of famegentlemen
together, they amount to just this ; the raifmg a great number of
nghl ul pictures, which at lirll fight appeal very terrific indeed ;
but when minutely examined, turn out to be the harmless proge
ny of a disordered imagination : Let us extm ne < n or iwo of
t £fe pictures as a sample of the whole groupe ; that we may
P f!i whet ' ier t,lere IS such danger in giving this power to the
re idcnt; and that security which some gentlemen pretend m
ltrikmg out the clause in the bill.
One ot thofc pictures represents the Piefident grasping the mo
ney ( licit, after having arbitrarily removed theofficer whole du
-11 "'he treasury: Then, Sir, in the back ground, wc
e -he Pre.,dent with the army the navy and the money ehelt en
iiga<:«nftthe liberties of America and reducing tbe people to
a jUt ilavery ; so ludden is the alarm, and so terrible the onset,
a we are hardly allowed time to fay Farewell to Libei ty : And
J , "V. s confluence of the Present's having a power to remove
tnc officer ot thetreafury.
I»ut. Sir, the fa£t is, that our money may be in the treafurv
> millwns, and wiilu at Ip,, .oI appropriation l.vtlie K-ifutuu'.
Nt ir ier the Prefidcnt not this officer can touch a farthm -of it
-lefst : This bein, the cafe, I fee as little to
, , y the ot this officer, as dano,, to it,
from his dependence oil the President.
Prefidcnt may come with his army at his back, and
ei. the money chest : 1„ this cafe I fee but little advanta -e in the
J "' ' ! ,! ' ouldftand ln 'he Prefidenfs
>, I think he will be very apt to take him, and the money too.
I 11 ■A A 1 • matter, it appears that gentlemen have
neen ar<;u,ng from prcmifcs that do not ex.ft. , n order that they
iVma.. W " C I 0 " C ; aGo ",! " om '"•<•>• have b,, „ drawl
kimcki r ond k ' to batter thcm d ° wn wit| > thtir
oflherel r ,° f a " fc !" ghlful P ' ftur " is ra,ftd out of a comparison
of therelat.onffiip between the President and the people, with
to th 7' " '" r f"T a " d thc P^P 1 ' - a "d her ewe have run deep
nuo the f Ll e„ee of ealculat,,, ; kindred, and it f,ems to be eonelu
"cd hythefnpportersofthis motion, that the Senate area much
EC r the'P °CA P co P le „ than I he Prd ' d^nt ; therefore this ftran-
Hce'r bfr' T' r"'" bl ' ' ntruft d with 'he removal of of.
nccrs , but our near kinsmen the Senate.
liut thefadfis, that the President, above all the officers of ro
ties'oThls b ° th ' rom,hc " at " r col' his appointment and the L
oTth, P ' nia y J J ftly and truly be denominated The Man
of 11" f OPU ' Whereas the Senate are thc mere repr.Tentative!
wh rW""■ ' St"t " S ° f ,he rcvcral Stal s compoAng the Un on
Td ' S "n eS are tI,C ° n ' y cffcflual bar lhat CJ " he raif.
ham , y execution of lh c federal government, and per
apsavery efficunt chcck to keep the federal government wnh.n
It'tufonal bounds, and which reprefe.natives have
, 'ucially j intle or nothing to do With the people or then in'.erelts
e, I tn, ; C t| Uap r r> tl: '" a,th ""- h '' lls picture is note; ute to 1...J
JT G„o°' ' u w ''i ,,all y phantom, and fool the,, il
Mr. Goodhl e obfenv d, that the great obi ct of t! - nref , i
l ° prOV ' d< ; tlK "" e w-h,ch we lYrel U
Vhi ?I Wam 0t ' " uder Ille " ld confederation :It is clearly
P'iwers wl„"h' """ " - dd ' S:1 ° f thc ' «>•« all thoh
.1, J' " K "" '"'any thc g-v.Tnmuit into ( \ C eu.
, lh u.d be v< iU d in the several branches ; of this defer lot u,.,
Prehdem W and V 'l', l h h thls l "" Jcdar " 11 vdl,d ln ll "
fi-er v«' f | ' llh " a & th,s P owe ' cables him to remove an ol-
President e T" ' m P"chment .efiding in the Senate, th,
eonfent ho continue 3n officer in his place, without the,,
c »nlent, however great a favorite he may be.
* * ," hfc , rvcd "P' jn ' h <- dan and impropriety of tin
Itrue 're v, 'u" "akin ;to expound the eonftitution, or'to con
awr " c , dai,fr ,n bui i-»«iuu x
co-.ftitutinn fc "fe of the committee on thc meamn,, of ,]„
ri-Vator aft' I' 1 "",' U «° b " denominated a de
x :r ~enJcd ihjt Congrta ~ad -
Mi. Sherman : The more I hear the question difculTed th.
power is vested in C th U P "l" k 1U ' S fau! ' that ""
ihn ,1 I r in the President by the eonftitution ; ,f so why
me fwo'uld t C '° yS° 10 tdl "J 1 ' P ' cf,drllt of ? " appears to
' , it would be more proper to leave the matter to his dcterm,
to do " COrdl "S 10 th " eonftitution : The President is author,f< d
do every thing ncceffary to d,fchar,e the duties of the exm
' C • but " '» eontadered, that by reft, iking him from the now ,
lilwllrTk C r vlng Officers at his will and pleat,ire, ,l„
S" ,iSP n" i ' 1 ' /i^hts"anci
adv ee a . S r th ' SenalC a ' l ' c "»' ld » d -a councilo,
merely'an K "f " 0t confldcrcd 'he conftitut.on a :
5 an advifoiy body ; tlieir consent is also nectff.ry in ao
ouentlT Th 'Th 0h 0 / h ° Uld r aVe ' he poWrr ° f d,lm '«i», confe.
,-ommitte whe!',l «!•= „
s mnehT y Wl '°" S: bllt we are l ""'" d to decide We a,
not disingenuous to fay, it is too oerDleved r '
tive. The Senate's power of advice is an excewion f ,
rh.s exception mull be conllrued ftnfllv to J, | m tt,c rul
tution with itlelf- Fur without the power in cue ft, th l Co ""'-
icc t! J at thc '* ws are executed, as he is required i Q ft"'? ca »
control over officers. Take that out of h.siiands a„d h
ped of t.ie power of his offi.e. He is no 1, n-r.r V i' c lsl W
null be made to aniwer for what he cannot V' ht
not only advise secretly, but as then own diftretior, "
They are not answerable. The bl.medividcd „ m ' fo 2 d '" f,;
tail upon none. 8 man ywuj
We are 'crvants, it is true; but wb are w,,,u
Ihould be unfaithful in both characters, if we ihould'fo ad"'" 11
advamag"' "
This power seems, therefore, to fall within thr l„ -
the President, to be nccelfary to controul oiHcers -. ; j
to thc executive his indepe nd nee. ' ' S " d t0 P ref «v=
If gentlemen on the other fide ftiould not be fatiried „,
conflru£tion,a condulion almoftas ftronirrefuits iron • ! ■ ! !l "
as from their assent: For they must br?„, more proif'f
nates power of advifmg, oradn.it thc power to be In fhio/ S "
alone; unlets they prefer renting b'oth
dilpofe of the power as :t may be expedient. Inii,., "''"J 3
dreadful array of obiefclionsdrawn from the Conftitut," lil!
nothing The Constitution has nbt impoildanv dtuy uLT',!.™?' 1
nate, which this conftruaion In favor ol the Prtfid< nt Jill"
being done ; nor is there a (ingle letter or clause whllT""™
lair or unfair conftpiftion, is oopofed to it. The ar eumf JJ
from the Cotiftitution, rests solely upon this princiole wh xh '
to be found m it, but is f.iid to be reasonable that hTi
removal from office is incident to the power of apDoinrin''^^
r C Th t ' S,S i an , if denied, cannot
tc. Certainly it is often not true. But if true Hum P ",
to their doflrine ; for the President has cxpr'cfsiy the nou'r r
norni"it.ng and appoint!,,though he must obtain thecal
s "Wtc He 15 the agent. They may prevent action •!
n °n Ai Xt ,S n 'V afy l ° illuftratc 1 lis point by examples whit
Will exaaiv correspond. But suppose that a man devises to £
ecutor land, to be fold (with the advice of a certain pcrf,m)on»
tain conditions : The executor fells with the consent, and u po „ ft,,"
cond.t.onsrequ.red in the will: The conditions are broken Sy
the executor re-enter for the breach of them ; or has the Jrf
whom he was obliged to advise with in the idle, any powerm
tram him ?1 he executor may remove the wrongful p„,f ir,, rfto '
the land though perhaps by the will he may hold "t in rfZ
feme other person's benefit. In this man,.e'l ,he President mt
advice'of Sena"®"' W '' C " hecann °'si» » withom
M'e arc told that it is dangerous to adopt conftruftions, and that
what 1S not expreWy g.vrn, is retained. Surely it is as improper
in this way to confer power upon the Senate, as upon the PrL „•
he result is, that if the power is not in the President fo.Vy u
clearly not 111 thc President and Senate. For thc very a-™
mens which make the former doubtful, make the latter abfux
oecaufe thequeltion wnsnot fr-efrom doubt, he wasfafein votiii
for the words question. If the Senate ha. not the power whictt
ST n,! r J bO,M ' dtl prOVe with alm o!tequal force,t'henthe
rielirient is veiled with it, or it is luthedifpofalof the Lc-ilkurt
Certainly we lha!l not, of choice, confer it 011 the Smite. fat
the doubt whether the President is not already entitled to t ism
argument against placing it 111 any other hands. H- I,d, s the Senile
is not always fitting-,s not responsible. I. is out of the.rlineof
auty as legislators : They are to try ; not accuse offenders: They
arc not to give orders, but oil complaint to judge of the breach of
We are warned against betraying liberty: We are told that all
power tends to abuse. And yet we cannot avoid truftins it out
of our hands. What is intended by this ?To the p.ople'it is of
no importance as it refpefls their power. Thtv cannot remove
Dart officers : They can neither gain nor lose pow'ei by it. Forthe
queltion is only which of their fcrvauts shall have the power al
rej y granted. Wife and worthy as the Senators are, thc power
in their bands will not only tend to abuse, but cannot tend to an/
thing tlfe. Many free governments have been fufcverted. The
world has profited by their expciienee, and agreed upon certain
I? 3 n' S 1 a " P owcr 'S a trust ; that to pr, vent abuse it mud
• e c, inhuted into tlircc branches, who mult be made indepen
dent, i.nd to watch and check one another. If all power is givei
' f °ft 5 c xecut ' vc » ' s a dcfpotifm. It the senatorial branch is in-
V J, ? 1 . t ! >c exec utive autho:i:y, it is an aristocracy, which of
ll rj nnies is the wnrft. As one usurps thc powers of the other,
°i ajthem conferred upon it, the government will vibrate towards
one o ihelc points. The fe arc to watch one another, and thepco-
P~ rc to watch them all—and liberty may long be fafe. Nrg-
C - n j n' c 'P^ in K these maxims, the ancient commonwealths
u ere ckftroyed. A voice ifTues from the earth which hides their
ru ' ns » an d proclaims to mankind the facredncfs of thofc truths
w icn are at this moment in controverly. It is laid that the con
• tution has in fact blended thc legifldtive and executive powers,
is has been an objettion against the constitution. If is true,
w*c Ihould restrain, not extend the evil But perhaps with the
■> e power of removal in tl>c President, thc check of the Senate in
appointments is proper : Ii is merely a check : It affords the molt
I a, '«wer to the objection. Tncre is much less objedion
1 t *e advisory power in appointments than iu removals from of-
J ||,- f, n p revent a nian » s coming into office ; but the
• ittci lOids him in office. Thc fir(t is thc tranfaftion ot an instant:
•' a^ [ er, a permanent thing It i rcates a continued connexion.
• t is obvious how this will nurse tatlion : How much it will pro
motc mtngue to procure protc£lors, and to shelter tools, It is
u liijr poison into the Constitution. It is an impure, unchaste
f-onneftion : There is rain in it : It is tempting the integrity of
e ena te with forbidden fruit. It Ihonld not be poflible for a
)r,lnc , l tne legillature to hope for a ftiare of the executive pow
1, \\ inch they are bound to watch : For tjhey may be tempted tp
ncrc«. tne executive power, by thc hope of partaking in the cx
rci People are seldom jealous of their own power, and if
cy may become partners with the executive, will they be iuitable
watchmen ? ;
Instead of being champions for liberty, they will become con
pi rators against it. The executive should be so far independ nt,
as to defeat any attempts by eith< r of the legislative branchesro
ILI, P ' u^P rer ogatives. lueverv pofTible event, his power should
>e exclusive of their partnership. But the proposed
mtioul of the Senate is setting that body above the Prtfidmt.
t tends to eftablifli an aristocracy by law ; and at the moment
> endangering the principles of our free and excellent Govern
ment, the people are to be amused with the found of liberty : For
in this lies the danger to liberty : It infufes a principle of mor
a uy mto a government, which the lovers of mankind havewilh
mi3ht hft to the end of the world. With a mixture of execu
tive an (giflative powers, no government can long remain ficc
• itn a corrupt executive, liberty may long be prefervrd. But
•vith a corrupt legislative, it is impoflible. A government lo
formed, would be the most formidable curse that could hefal this
•Probably an enlightened people would forfteanda
mend the error in fcafon. But if time was allowed for fu:ha com
pound to produce its natural effects, it would cither banifli liberty,
1)1 t .e p.ople would be driven to exercise the primary rights 0
nature, ana to deflroy a mnnftcr wbi> h would destroy their..-'
He admired the free principles of the Constitution, and lho"M
vote tor tne clause on account of its conformity to those principles.
[J , j ~, , t . { j , ' v '.' ' i' . V,- 'j ; ■to the impost bill infilled upon by the Senate,
iVakcn iuio confiue ration. .
million of theduucs oufpirit. of Jamaica proof, from
Xhc t»n an< j oli a il other foreign fpinw from 12 to Scents
'sto5 t0 debate; but-terminated in not acceding to the
of the Senate.
amtadnic ■ fed, that the House should requeil a conference
•'"lf, Senate upon the fubjeds of their This pio-
V ' adopted. ~ nd a commute, 011 the part ot Me Houlr
S'n"which couiilted of Mr. B .udinot, Mr. Kitzsimons,
a °n-k l Houfc D proc'=ded next to consider thamendments propof-
J\ the '-a e:o t'.ie bill linpoiing duties on tonnage : 1 nefe
™• ' . wrwfVd'to. - and the bill was referred to the committee
were not acccucu
'Sou"then in committee of the whole, took into confide
,.],rlnllfor effablilhing an executive department to be d -
"Tied tkc department ot war : This bill alter fevcral amend
k w ia--Kid to ; the committee then lose ; and the bill as
""ortcd by tiiechaiiman was taken up by the House, but without
cooing to a full decision an adjournment was called lor.
Thursday, Junk 25.
Mr Wvnkoop introduced the petition of Grigcs,
[ Pennsylvania ; Hating, that he iiad invented a machine tor the
Mre fMtdy"manufacturing ot nails; and praying for anexclu
tven ht 10 the benefit ol iiu invention for a teim of years—laid
cntiietabh. , , r r
The bill for eftabhlhing the war department, as reported by
fcc committee of the whole, was taken into consideration, and
the fevcral amendments being agreed to—it was voted that the bill
uanundidlhould be engrolud. in order for a thud reading,and
to-morrow was assigned for that purpose.
In committee ot the whole on the bill to cltablilh a trcafury dc
partnicnt. .
Mr. Trumbull in the chair.
This bill provides, that there Ihell be the lollop ing officers in
this department, viz. A Secretary of the Trcafury, a Comptroller,
an Auditor, a Trcafurer, a R.gilter, and an Affillant to the Se
crttai y of the Treasury, and principal Clerks to the Comptroller
and Auditor. Si verai amendments were propoft d and agreed to :
But one propofedby Mr. Pagl, viz. To strike out troin the se
cond clause these words, - to and report plans jor the improve
ment and management oj the revenue and the j uppori[of the public cre
dit'' riferrin 4to the duty of the Secretaiy ot the Tk a fury, brought
on an interfclting d.bate, which ended in fubilituting the word
trepan, for repoit. The debate continued till three o'clock, when
the committee role, and the lioufe adjourned.
Friday, June c 6.
The House met this day purfuantto adjournment, but the com
mittee of conference being affeinbled, and a great proportion
ot the members attending their deliberations,it was moved to
journtill to-morrow, which accordingly took place.
public will pleafc to take 11 >tice, that in our lafl Gazette
therewas an error, in .ilTerting that Mr. Gerry was in favor of
Mr. Carrol's motion for limiting tiie duration of the att lor
eftabli uinga department of foreign affairs. Mr. Gerry had no
objection to the objeil oi Mr. Cartel's motion, which he thought
mn'ht be better attain d by a clause providing, " that the fecr. -
tarv of foreign affairs shall be appointed for a term not excedmg
years," but he was againil the motion itfe/j f , because it would
nut the legislature under the neceflity of making a new law lor
the restoration of the department, wiiereas the att might continue
and the officer bedil'miifed, when he was no longer ufetul. Mi.
G. alio thought the motion had a tendency t > invade, the right,
of theextcunvc ; lor at the expiration of the ast, however necef
iaiy it might be to renew it, a party in the house may defeat it,
horn adiflikc to theofheer who had been before appointed, and
may thus controul the conftiiutional authority of the executive.
AMo, \u the last page of this pap r, 2d. col. line 42 from bottom,
inihisfentcnce, 44 power and liberty are niolk complete," instead
of which read, power and liberty are not mojl complete.
JFOW.GN AND DO Ml SI Ji MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES.
PARIS, A)' R I L 5.
TheAffembly of the States-Generaux i.s fti'l fixed for the 27th
iiift. The members are in general choferi ; and notwithstanding
the novelty of popuLi cle&ions, they were conduced with the
utmolt harmony.
LONDON", APRIL 13.
The war in the north- rn part of Europe will be carried on with
peat vigour ; and much 44 bloody work" may be expelled this
lummer.
There are great bets laid, that this country will be involved in
•i War, from her Prufliuii and Dutch connexions, in-less than on
year.
His Majcfly's health continues found; his afliduity in bufiuefs
encreaics, and no dangersaTCentertained of relapse. The King's
physicians are all to be pensioned, by parliament.
A day of general thaukfgiving has been ordered on account of
his Mdjtfty's recovery.
Charleston, (s. c.) June 2.
Wednesday laft,came on in the court of general feflions, before
the Hon. judge Draytor, the trial of Mr. Wefcott, for gouging
and maiming Mr. Bowen.
It appeared in evidence, in proof of the profecntion, that Mr.
Bowmi ui palling the defendant, at the dooi of Mrs. Dewecs, iu
lyng-ftrcn, brushed againfl his arm, which he confide red as an
a .rent, pi:fhed him lo violently thjt he fell down, and ic getting
•'P ftnick the defendant with . frtiall w hip he he ld in his hand.
ilcottthen threw him down again, got upon him, and gouged
out one ci his eyes. }Jc then took the whip out of his hand and
eat him violently with it. Perform who saw the affray interpo
se, the eye w; s replaced in its locket, but the light entirely ex
mguiftn d, ant] the other one at times much aflcfted by it.
n ddence of the defendant, three countrymen were produced,
hft Vlocncc ° 11C whom went to prove, that the ailault was
[\.. . ~C ^n ie P r °fecutor ; and the other two were of opinion,
tne \.ound was received from some kieks which the defen
m owcn v, '^ en be was down on the ground.
i jifa'' 10 ' nc ) observed to the jury, that this offence was
" S i°* a ca P^ onc » and if the offender had beer
bceVr '- 5 ou^t ' for what he had done, his life inuft have
Itnh tuKC . n . <IVI1 V.» bis lenity was by no means owing to am
m from c!ie tender hufnanify of tlie aged pio
lav r° r '" P rcva .^ upon him, bv repeated solicitations, to
r. _ in I r ' l i LllL ' n the manner in which he had done.
tf ft e l am °V nncceffa 7 ' ol lM cx P a^iate on the barbarity
etßcln* j° r T birds of the air and the savages of the defai
niai I'', f llUU,a^ons i* l the dcftru&ion of their prey; but sOl
rionflv Was eil^ow, ( i with the light of reason, barba-
y oUni ; lr ° awa y the fight of 011 cof his own fpecies—for.
y f ais°rnri n ! j° em P'°y ns bands upon an aged pei son, whose
cr 'imp that > U 'f 1 F oltrrunt entitled him to refpeft, was such a
astlir 1 1 . im^ extremely sorry in not having gone as
which acrvwi* ineli Anient was laid for a maim,
punifh'able \< l ° down by judge Blackftone, was
*hink fit Ti nc a l'"' m P l jfo n mentj or othcrwife, as the court
afUhcv coulri mca^urc °* Punishment did not lie with the jury
latisfatiorv 1 ° 10 ITI S u^t y? for which they had very
COurt came tn r be did not doubt but that when the
cntu r ce . thc PWnifhment infliftrd would be
us t0 iai4e the country a monument of juflice
that Would deter others from the perpetration of fucli an unmanly
savage actioiv
The judge fummtd up the evidence, and laid down the law
upon he occalion.
The jury having retired, brought in a verdict of guilty, and the
pnfontrwillbe brought up on adjournment day to reitivelentence.
June 9. Yesterday the court of general kfllons palled the
fallowing femtnee on Mr. Wefcott, for gouging and maiming
Mr. Bowcn: That'he should fland in the pillory, on the green,
near the goal, a quarter of an hour ; be imprisoned for four week,
pay the sum of fifty pounds, and be kept 111 confinement till the
fine is paid.
June 11. On Thursday the 28th ult. in Camden diftrift, a
1-1 uel with piilol. w. s fought between Mr. Jacob Brown, and
C.'pr. Baker, 111 which the latter was kilted, and the former so
adlv wounded, that he died in 12 hours. —Thisduel was fought
it is Paid in a public house, the parties firing at each other across
a table; pcrnaps it terminated as all others should.
Providence, June 20.
Extra# of a letter from a very refpe&able Member of Congress,
to his friend in this State, dated June 13.
" Mofl per Jons here will not believe that your people will be long
held in error with refpefl to thsir bcjl interejls. They consider thefipee
dy accejjion oj your State as a natter of certainty. IVith that idea, the
duty on lime arid barley was Jlricken out of the impojl bill. It was thought
unnecejjary to take any measures to eJfcEt a purpose which of itflf was so
nearly accomplished. The separation of your State is not contemplated
as a possible event. It need not be [aid, how much it would ajfcEl the
union ut large. The means which the government pojjejjes to make the
separation undesirable to your people, are equally obvious Let your
merchants, farmers and manufacturers, consider well how much they have
prospered in a Jlate of union with their brethren, and what may be ex
pected to ensure the continuance of their prosperity, whenever Congress
/hall be compelled to resort to those means. Every government mujt en
force its own revenue laws, and provide for the public fafety and tran
quility, as circumflances may require. Ido not pr tend to fay what
would be the line of conduct, if \our State should finally renounce the
union; but let a thinking Rhode-Island man weigh in his own mind, what
prudence andjuflice will require tobe done.
" I have nut a doubt that. \cur State willfinally accede to the union.
Nature, compact, inte r efl, the ties of honor, and thojr ofblood, bind us
indijfolubly together. Of all political eurfes, the mofl jormidable is dis
union; Jur Ido not know another. which that would not draw after it.
lam flocked to argue upon juch a topic. Yet, if it is only probable that
some party men intend a separation, it would be very proper to warn
your people of the conferences.
44 Of all conditions, that of fear and diflrufl is the mofl pain ful. The
reason why men submit to bear the burthen of government, is to be aflual
ly and to feel secure. What security againjl external force cayu
your people hate? Thefea is open to the fie ts of foreign nations, and ar
imaginary line divides youfrom your neighbours. Either the States will
be friendly, or they will not. IJ laws and oaths, and the aid of all good
men, who will make common cauf of any violation of their r ights, will
not induce you to unite with the States as brethren, on how much worse
fecurit.y will you not trufl them as neighboursf Suppose them hojtile, en
croaching neighbours, what willprotetl your State? Not its own Jlretlgth.
Will they seek foreign p rot erf ion? The idea is delusive. No nation in
Europe would consent to afford it, and all Europe would not long be able.
Would all your property recompence them, if they should? Would a nati
on of /laves —would armies and fleets refpefl your liberties, more than
your own servants?
" What is to become of xour proportion of the public debt? If that
fhQuid be adjufled without the voice of your representatives, and prompt
payment demanded, would the burthen Jail lightly upon your citizens?
The taxes on con sum ah l e articles wilt almojl imperceptably relieve the
States in the union J ram the effects of the war.
" Supposing the idea of ast partition to be disdained, as it will be by
every true American, then the people oj your State mufl consider the go
vernment as their own. If they are to live under it, and it is clear that
the\ mufl, prudence will dilate that they Jhouldvot lofc Vine in acceding
to it. The news-papers willfhew, that almojl very debate in Congref
has involved the mofl precious interejls oj Rhode-tfland. The interejls
of their eaflern breihreu are ivfeparably united with their own. The aid
of your State in Congress has been needed, and earneflly defined. Suiely
there is no profit in delay. On the contrary, you endanger your own
caufe —\oumay dej eat your own wfhes.
il The reafon s why your State should join the government. The
only reason why it should not, is drawn from the supposed tendency cj
some parts of the conflitution. That very reason will be found a very
flrong one why thexpiould accede to it. arid that with all possible expediti
on. The bufinejs of amendments is noio before Congress. If your
people are 1 n earn eft, let them fend their representatives to unite wth those
who are endeavouring to introduce them. They would be very arrogant
and uncandidto fuppof, that a majority in Congress are not as zealoujh
disposed to guard the freedom of America from violation as the people oj
Rhoae-Ifland. But if thev are the only people who love liberty, and who
know how to secure it, the federal conflitution, if it is as defcßive as
they pretend, will furnifk J'cope for t heir talents. Congress is the body
in which fucli people may do good. If they are anxious to improve the
government, why absent th emfelvesfi om New-York? If amendments are
■iot made, who will be less excujable than they? If they objeff, perhaps
the amendments will not be agreed to. The answer is plain, they mufl
Vive under the government as it is. Surely the chance oj their adoption is
less, if Rhode-Iflandfhould be unreprefe"ted. North-Carolina has even
rejefled the conflitution yet they have called another convention, and will
1. cede beyond queflion. Why has that State been blind to the very diffe
rent policy of yours? The example of North-Carolina should be allowed
Jome weight The confidence that some amendments will be wade, has
guided them in twice calling a convention. 1 trufl that the difcufjion oj
the amendments will be liberally managed, and such as are proper wil>
be injerted. A motion for the purpose has been made, and it was urged
that it was proper to delay the confidt ration for some time, in order that
the States which have been mofl difjatisjied might be represented. Rhode-
Island was particularly alluded to, and it was said to be impracticable
for the members of your State to be chosen and sent in a fhorttime. The
w»(ion contains a lill of rights, and many explanation s which cannot
fail toJatisfy any reasonable man. Accordingly the business was allow
ed toJab fide. You may be ajjured, however, that it will be r fumed as
soon as the government is organized, the revenue bill in operation, and
the great departments arranged. At prejent, the House is too closely
occupied with those objefls to attend to any other. It will not be evaded
r delated a moment, and it is myfincere belief that the amendments will
prevail.
" Thus, Sir, the people of your State have the alternative plainly be
fore them. An honorable opportunity presents to join the union. Ei
her they will acccde, or they will not. If they accede, the sooner they
do it the better. I defy any man to point out', even upon antifederal
b> inciples, an advantage that will ensue by delay. There is proof, equal
to demonfl rati on, of many dif advantages and dangers that will attend
t. On the other hand, if they renounce the union, they prefer danger
to fafety, poverty to opulence. It is thus that fear makes men blind:
0 avoid one danger, they of ten rush upon another; and to escape pain,
" jufi}e.r death."
An exafl account has lately been taken of our navigation, by which it
it pears that there are now belonging to this port, 8 ships, 33 brigs, 40
'oops, and 20 fehooners —total 101 fiil, amount ngto 9914 tons. These
.re exclusive of river packets and boats. Of the said vejfels more than
three quarters ai e employed iudiflant voyages, and the whalefifhery.
It may beolfervcd, fays a correfpor, dent, that it is out of the power of
our merchants to fit one of the above vejfels (with a fuitahle cargo) either
for Europe, the East or Wefl-Indies,or even on a whaling voyage, with
out the affjflance of the United States-, our own produce and manufactures
being insufficient Jor the purpose.
Thurflay afternoon the Lady and Son of His Excellency the Vice-Prc
fidcnt of the United States arrived here from Boflon, and this day fail for
New-York: On their arrival here they were visited by a number of
ladies and gentlemen of the town, and yesterday dined with a large com
pany at the house of John Brown Esq. every attention being paid them
which the shortness oj theirflay would admit.
NEIf-YORK, JUNE 27, 1789.
The 24th inft. the feaft of Sc. John (the Baptifl), was celebra*
ted by the ancient Society of Free Mafor.s in this city, with a de
gree oi magnfficence and liberallity, highly honorable to the
craft: A well adapt, d discourse was delivered by the Rew
Brother Dr. Beach, at St. Paul's, to a crouded auditory; and a
very hadfome collection received for the relief of poor debtors
in jail. The proceflion dn this occasion equal if not fuperioi j
in refpeftability. numbers and appearance,to any eVcr beforefeen
in America.
ODE to CHARITY.
Compofedby brother Low, of Holland Lodge, sung on the above
occasion.
REs ITATIVE.
From regions of immortal bliss above,
Impart thy genial emanations. Love!
Soul of our Order ! Patroii oi this day!
Inspire our hearts, and prompt the solemn lay*
Air.
Come, Beauty of th' eternal Sire.'
Whose Justice we adore,
Whose power and wisdom we admite—
Thy smile attra&s us more !
Faith may command thevifual ray*
Futurity to scan ;
And Hope, by Fancy led aflray,
May picture Heav'n to Man j
But thou, blest CHARITY! can'ft give
Companion's thrill divine ;
From thee we heav'nly joys derive j
For Joy and Heav'n are thine!
CHORUS.
And when Faith and Hope shall fade,
When Heaven's portals are difplay'd*
When, with transports vafl and new 3
Things ineffable we view ; (
Then (Religion's source and aim)
CHARITY shall fan the flame;
Love divine shall be our theme,
Love—eternal and fupremc!
This, this alone our constant Heav'n shall prove—
The GOD of Heav'n in everlasting Love!
The world is waiting with anfcious expectation to fee the opera
tion of themw government : Much is julUy expetfced from the
legislature of the United States : The people of America having
set an original example by adopting in peace, without force,
fraud, or surprize, a Constitution, simple, plain, and competent to
their exigencies, a doubt cannot remain, but that all the acts and
doings of the legislature* will be such a comment upon its princi
ples, as will give it that compleat force and operation, which will
crown the wishes of this great people.
The cause of humanity gains ground rapidly among mankind—
H w absurd the idea that it should eve> want a tnend anion; the
human race ! The abolition of African slavery is a confirma
tion d< voutly to be wished—but like other bad habits, ,it cannot
be etfe&ed all at once—however, every man who feels the lead
spark of fcnfibility glowing in his breast, will never ler the fub
jeft reft, till a system shall be f rined upon a scale however fatal!
that shall finally wipe off this foul blot from the annals of civili
zation.
From various part of the eaflward we learn, that there has been
the heavu ft rains known in the memory of man.
Amotion was made and obtained in »he House of Representa
tives of M. ffachufetts, the present fefTi .n, to appoint commit
tee to rec; ive proposals from t lie creditors of gov< nment, of the
conditions on which they will re-lo n thei*" demands, in cale
fufficient funds provided for a punctual r J ifrha'-ge of the inter
est annually ; and the Trcalurcr was apponi'rd for the purpose.
The g<xvernment of Rhode-Island lias prohibited the exporta
tion of grain from that State.
LaftThurfday arrived in this city, in the Hanc >ck Packet, Capt,
Brown, via. Newport, The-I.ad- and Son of His Excellency
the Vice-President of the L T nited States.
The publick exceedingly regret the accident by which the Hon.
Mr. Huger, member from South-Carolina, *vas thrown out ol
his carriage on Thursday last, and unfortunately had one of his
legs fractured in a verv dangerous nrnn-r.
ARRIVALS. NEW -) ORK.
l\'cdncfday y Brig Lucretia Stray, St. Domingo, iq days*
Schooner Tom, Herring, Edenton. N. C. 6 days
Schooner Thomas, Jones, Frederick fkurgh,Vii. sdays
Sloop Nancy, Ventcis, Norfolk, 3 days.
Sloop Nancy, Coffinger, Norfolk, 5 days.
Sloop Caty, Dafhwood, Peterfburgh, Vir. 4 days
Thursday, Schooner Sally, Morgan, York-Town,Vir. sdays
Schooner Kitty, Mead, Charleston, 6 days.
S-hooncr Eagle, Coffin, Hallifax, 12 days.
Sloop Hancock, Brown, Rhode-Island, 4 days.
Sloop Pagy, Cahoone, Rhode-Island, 4 day.
Friday, Ship Lauanta, Docket, Newfoundland, 15 days-
Brig Chriflian Bencdifta, Euk Glad, Leghorn, 84dayj
Brig , Mofley, York-Town, Vir. 9 dayj
Sloop Triall, Barnard, Port au Prince, 19 days.
Sloop Timfon, Portfmonth, Vir. 7 davs.
PRICE CURRENT. NEW-YORK.
June 27, 1789.
Jamaica Spirits, ...
Antigua Rum, -
St. Croix, do. - 478-
Country, do. - - a ?Jio.
MolafTes, - f>. a '
Brandy, ... 5 J6. a 5 (q.
Gtncva ' r 5/3-
Do. in cases, - . - 2qjl
Muscovado Sugar, - - 56/! a 72\f.
Loaf, do. - 1
Lump, do. - - r i/ti.
Pepper, - 2/8.
Pimento, - jJg. a •>[.
Chocolate, - - -
Cocoa, - - "7 bf- a 8 c/^
Coffee, - - ijTg. a I^9.
Indigo, (Carolina) - - 4 f a 6f.
Rice, - - -23 f. a 24/".
Superfine Flour, ... 4 P
Common do. - - 4ifS. a 43/"
Rye do. 26/? a if..
Indian Meal, ... \j\
Rye, - - 4/9. pr. bufit.
Corn, (Southern) - - 4/^
Do. (Northern,) • - a 4J6.
Beef, firft quality, - . 48[. a 50f.
■ Second quality, - - 41/0.
Potk, firft quality, ' - - 81 fd.
— Second quality, . - 7616.
laid, - . BJ. fr.lt.
Butter, - - yd. a 84.
Hams, ... a 71i.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
[Continued from No. XX.J
Nedhain had forgotten the example of Caflius,
■which would have been equally apposite to prove
a limple aristocracy a bad government, and equal
ly improper to prove that the people in their fa
preme aflemblies, fucceflively cliofen, are the
best keepers of their liberty. It is also equally
proper to prove the contrary, and to shew that
such a simple democracy is as dangerous as a Am
ple aristocracy. These examples all ihow that
the natural principles of tilt English constitution
were constantly at work among the Roman peo
ple : That nature herfelf was constantly calling
out for two masters to controul thefenate, one in
a king or single person pofleffed of the executive
power, and the other in an equal representation
of the people pofTefled ol a negative on all the
laws, and especially on the disposal of the pub
lic money. As these examples are great illuftra
tionsof our argument, and illultrious proofs of
the superior excellence of the American conllitn
tions, we will examine the story of Caflius be
fore we come to that of the decemvirs.
The firft notice that is taken of Cafiius is in the
year 252, when he was consul, gained consider
able advantages over the Sabines, and received the
honor of a triumph. In 256 he was chosen by
Lartius the firft dictator, General of the liorfe,
and commanded a division of the army with suc
cess against the Latines. In the year 261, when
disputes ran so high between patricians and
plebeians, that 110 candidate appeared for the
consulship, and several refufed, the veflel was
in such a storm that nobody would accept the helm.
The people who remained in the city at last
nominated Pofthumius Cominius, A. R. 261, and
Spurius Caffius, who were believed equally agree
able to plebeians and patricians. The firft thing
they did was to propose the affair of the debts to
the Senate: a violent opposition ensued, headed
by Appius, who constantly insisted that all the
favor shewn the populace only made then? the
more insolent, and that nothing but inflexible
severity could reduce them to their duty. The
young Senators all blindly adopted this opinion:
nothing palled, in several tumultuous aflemblies,
but altercations and mutual reproaches. The
ancient Senators were all inclined to peace.
a > w bo had obf'erveda fagaciousmedium,
neither flattering the pride of the great, nor fa
voring the licence of the people, beinc; one of
the new f'enators whom Brutus had chosen after
the expulsion of Tarquin, supported the opinion
that the good of the State required the re-esta
blishment of concord among the citizens. Sent
by the Senate 011 a committee to treat with the
people retired to the sacred mountain, he spoke
his celebrated fable of the Belly and the Mem
bers. The people at this conference, which was
in 261, insisted, that as, by the creation of dic
tators with unlimited authority, the law, which
admitted, appeals to the people from the decrees
of any r.iagift, ute whatever, was eluded, and in
a manner made void, tribunes lhould be created,
a new species of magistrates, whose sole duty
should be the conservation of their rights. The
affair of Coriolanus happened in this interval be
tween the firft consul ate of Sp. Caflius in 261, and
the second in 268; in which, probably, he had
adted in favor of the people in establishing the
tribunate, and in defending them against Corio
lanus, Appius Claudius, and the other oligarchic
Senators. This year, 268, he marched against
the Volfci and Hernici, who made peace, and
the consul obtained the honor of a triumph.
Caflius, after his triumph, reprefenred to the
Senate, that " the people merited some reward
" for the services they had rendered the coin
" monwealth, for defending the public liberty,
" and subjecting new countries to the Roman
" power: that the lands acquired by their arms
" belonged to the public, though some patrici
" ans had appropriated them to tliemfelves : that
*' an rquitable distribution of these lands would
" enable the poor plebeians to bring up children
" for the benefit of the commonwealth ; and that
" such a division alone could establish that equa
" lity which ought to subsist between the citizens
" of the fame State. ' He aflbciated in this pri
vilege the Latines fettled at Rome, who had ob
tained the freedom of the city.—Turn primum
lex Agraria promulgata eft. Liv. 1. ii. 41. This
law, which had at least a great appearance of
equity, would have relieved the misery of the
people, and no doubt rendered Caflius popular.
(To be continued.)
SKETCH OF THE POLITICAL STATE OF AMERICA.
[Continued from No. XX.]
AS the circmnftance of having two of tin* Ame
rican States still continue in their refufal to join
in union with the others, is a matter of specula
tion, and engages much of the public mind, it may
not be amiss, at this time, to make a few general
observations on this fubjec r t; in -which it will ap
pear, that ltrong natural and political reasons
uppofe their present di (union, and both must for-
cibly operate to cfFec r t their future junction : We
proceed to examine some of the causes resulting
lrom both these principles—and it may from the
former be fairly argued, that nature has evident
ly deligned these States, at lealt for many years
to come, to be one united nation, and with her
unerring hand, pointed out innumerable blessings
to be derived to the inhabitants of this Western
World from such an union : Kor their encourage
ment to perfeverein completing this noble fabric
as a Temple to the Goddess of Liberty—a relief
from the fcourage of tyranny —the ill directed
zeal of superstition and bigotry—and an aiylum
to the opprelled of all mankind : The reciprocal
wants of men arising from local lituation and other
circumltances, are here provided for by the kind
author of nature, in giving to America a partici
pation of the various climates of the world :—
Here a brother's arm, nerved by the bracing ze
phyrs of the Well:, ihall be extended to the aid
of a brother enfeebled by the lcorching beams of
a vertical fun—Here the riches, which a fertile
foil and favorable climate give to the funs of the
South, /hall be wafted by their hardy brethren of
the North, to every part of the globe—The blood,
become almost stagnant by the chilling froft of
northern latitudes, lhall be forced from the lieait
by the generous juice of the southern grape—The
indultrious worm, wrapt in his little orb, lhall
(unfolded by the genial ray of a tropical fun)
expand his lilken wings over the fair daughters
of Columbia—while the fleecy tribe lhall willing
ly yield their snow white velfment to cloath the
arm by which they are cherished and protected.
Having viewed some of the natural, we proceed
to notice some of the political ties, which ought
to cement this Continent in one firm, efficient un
ion : Ihe fir ft of which arises from the proprie
ty of observing that maxim, foeflential to the sup
port of any government, and more especially a
republican, that the minority Ihould ever quietly
fuomit to be governed by the majority : However,
in objection to this, some fine-l'pun arguments
have been fophiftically urged to prove, that each
individual State poflelles within itfelf all the so
vereignty of a diftindt nation ; but such ideal,
chimerical aHertiona, cannot make an imprellion
on the mind deeper than the furfaceof the paper
which contains them. What do we mean by lb
vereignty, but tlicdepofitof supreme power : Can
there be thirteen depolits of supreme power exifl
ing at the fame time, directed to finiilar ends,
and for the fame purposes : Shall the language
of the several States, to the general government
itill be what McFingal has heretofore welldefcri
bed it,
" You shall be Viceroys it it true;
" But we'll be Viceroys over you."
No—rather let our united language in future,
run thus :
We'll be a nation, it is true,
Anci tor that end, the means purfuc.
It is certain, without pra&ifiug on this princi
ple, we can never claim that character. Of what
avail will be the polleflion of sovereignty in each
State, without the ability to l'upport it! 'i he mad
man fees in the watry mirror a crown dazzling
with diamonds, and plunging to grasp the fancied
object, perishes in the attempt. Who doubts of
the natural independency of every son of Adam ;
but who will contend that both his power and
liberty are most compleat under the operation of
a good government.
These States, in that united act by which they
abjured theßritilh government, not only pledged
themselves to each other for every poilible riiijue
in their contest to be rid of usurpation and tyran
ny ; but also their joint exertions to raise a future
government, calculated to secure their freedom
and hap pin ess—and no one of them has now a right
to recede from the original contract, or oppose
tliofe measures which a majority of their fellow
citizens have deemed as necellary to effect this
valuable purpose ; nor is their conduct in diflent
ing from the union to be juftified on any princi
ple of government—having a tendency to bring
on their country greater evils than those it has
been contending to avoid—the horrors of a civil
war. The States alluded to are indebted to the
others for their joint efforts in emancipating thein
from a foreign yoke : They have a part of the
expence incurred by the war to difcharge—for
which jullice cannot withold her claims : Many
more reasons could be urged to shew the impro
priety and ill tendency of their present defections
—but it is yet to be hoped, that the paflions of
men, their little views, and mistaken interests,
will not be fuffered to fruftrate the benevolent de
sign of Heaven, marked by every circumstance of
our natural situation, and so often exemplified in
ourprogrefs towards the rank and character of a
nation. AMERICANUS
MR. FENNO,
I HAV E with much attention considered the ob
fervations handed to the public,through the chan
nel of your paper, by Americanus ; and am un
der theneceflitv ot fubfcribingto his opinion, in
favor of afecretary tor domestic afFairs ; not from
any regular train of rcafoning which he has used
or deduvftions which he has drawn in support of
this department, but from the dutin he has affion
ed to his fiec'i'-y two very eflential ones, he
has however omitted.—These are the difcevcry -f
the perpetual motion, and the longitude. The fir/'
of these, is in my humble opinion of the tit™,.'-
importance to the United States, particularly in
the article of manufactures, so neceflary to our
existence. 1 apprehend little reasoning will lie
fuilicient to eilablifh this point. It is yenerallv
agreed that motion, is neceliary in aln'foft, evej'v
branch of manufactures, andperhaps some inge
nious philosopher, may yet find it requisite in
every branch. At present this motion is general
ly produced by men ; but this source mult flmrr
ly fail from the infatuation, and niadnefs, which
has taken hold of our labourers for emigrating
into the western country : now when tins ihali
happen, I humbly conceive Sir, that the ferpl
tual motion will be absolutely neceliary to fupniv
this defect. '
Americanus's lalt paragraph is a very extraor
dinary piece of composition : I have 'studied it
with the utinoft care, and with the express dp
%n of fubferibing to his opinions relative to the
western territory, as well as to the duties of bin
dome/lie secretary ; but Sir, his opinions are f..
involved by ■words, without any direct conclusion,
that it was with difficulty 1 could find what he
was driving at. In the beginning he tells us
that hehas his " doubts of the principle,which in
a degree leads to the necessity of such an establish
mem," as a land-ofricc for the western territory
Why this, or any other -writer, ihould have his
" doubts" on the fubjed, is truly astonishing-
The " principle," or rather principles, which
lead us directly to " such an eftablillinient," as
the pointers do to the north pole, are firft, the
country: ficondly,the military bounties: thirdly, the
lales already made by the United States of part
of the territory : fourthly, the l ight that people
have to fettle their own lands, andjifthly, the right
that aperfon has to go from one place to another,
whether on foot, on hotfe-back, or in a waggon.
Americanus, views " any encouragement to
emigrate in the present state of our population,
as building up the interior part of this country,
at the expence of the atlantic fettlcmcnts." If
by difpoling of that country, " the atlantic set
tlements" pay their public debt, the cafe will be
diretftly reversed ; " the atlantic settlements"
will get clear of their debt, at the cxpence of
the western territory.—What he means by "pro
ducing an undue proportion of certain intereits,"
would require a commentator with all the abili
ties of Julius Sejliger, to unravel.—This writer
grants, that if" the spirit of emigration cannot
be well flopped, or greatly checked, that it will
be doubtless most politic to methodise the fettle
inent of the western country." The emigration
cannot possibly be checked while the inhabitants
of " the atlantic States," find it their interellto
remove. The manufaifturers will reside where
they can be the most advantageously employed—
the fame may be said of any other class of citi
zens in the United States; and 110 a ct, without it
is fufficiently energeticxo alter the nature of tilings,
can poflible take away such a right in this coun
try ; and any attempt, to produce such an effeift,
can only have a tendency, to shew the imbecility
of government when dire&ed to improper objects.
The great popular objedion to fettling the
western country, is the loss of our mechanics. —
I his objedlion is founded in mere speculation,
and can only have weight from experience ; and
however plausible at present, will lose its force
if the western country should be more favorable
tomanufacftures, than " the atlantic settlements."
When it becomes the interest of the people to
manufacture, they will attend to it whether east,
or weft of the Allegany Mountains; and when
it is not, no laws nor regulations, can compel them
to it. A. E.
THT. NATIONAL MUNIs Oft.' *Nu. X.
Nothing will conduce more to flrengthen, confirm, and perpetuate
Union of States, than a more perfect acquaintance with
the temper, geniiis, manners, laws, customs, ana habits of each
other.
AMONG tht happy cjfcfis of the late war, may be reckoned the ab
dication Jrom the minis of our citizens, oj many deep rooted prejudices,
which prevented that mutualrefpett for the iharatlers of the several States,
so honorary and benificial to the general interejl of the whole. That in
tercourse which necejfarily arose from the cir cum fiance of marching the
eajlern and northern troops through the middle States, to fight the battles
of their country in the south, andfo viceverfa, was produflive cflajling
and f i/utary consequences: 7 hcujands by this means u-ere made acquaint
ed with the geography ef the country —its imtnenfe extent—its produce
its improvements—its worth,and [hewed them what they faitght for: The
planters were taught to admin the hardihood, the independence and bra
very oj their northern brethren ; and while they contemplated then fern
republican virtues, they unfilled the fame spirit of enterprfe, end acknow
ledged the wisdom of th'ofe injiitutions, which exijled in the eajlern States,
and which contributed so ejfentially to produce an enlightened race oj he
roes in the yeomanry if the country. On the other hand the force oj thofi
republican principles, which inspired the majority of the citizens oj the
fontherti States, was no less an objefl of pleafmg contemplation : Theft
principles were paramount in their operation to all local habits and cufloms:
They burfl the barriers of an education friendly to domestic fervitudc,
ana produced a glorious emulation in the cause of universal liberty. The
war lilcwife produced a great variety of political, commercial,jripidh,
and conjugal connexions—the benign influences of which are continually
expanding, and are among the happiefl concomitants of peace—andther'
is no doubt, have contributed greatly to the produflion of that uniform',
ojfentiment which has led to the present happy prospeCts of this greet re
public. If the casual and tronfert acquaintance oj our citizens in a lirtc
of war, has contributed to these events —what rjiay not be expeflcdfront a
mutual exchange offentiments, and an harmonious irtercourfejorthe bej
oj purposes in a time of peace f C-
(The ftibjeft to he continued.) _
JOHN FKNNO, No. 9, Maiden-
Lane, uear the Ufuego-AJiirktt, IVsw-York..—[3 dol.