Of f/JC %y>
[No. XIX.]
THE TABLE T. No. XIX.
u Sensible men as -well as others aftner have occafiou
to repent of faying too much than too little."
THOUGH I place a new motto at the head of
this number, yet 1 am continuing my last
filiation rather than introducing a new one.
There is such a direrfity of appearances in human
rtint the molt diligent enquirer after truth
Iv come to a stand in his researches He will
L to himfelf, I may as well remain idle, as per
' v mind with enquiries, which cannot ter
minate in a fatisfaCtory solution. This difficulty
'culiarlv attends the cafe now under confidera
■ n It has been fhcwn that in some instances
obvious advantages result from a cold, reserved
deportment ; while 011 other occasions, the fue
l's of aman seems to have originated in an open,
unreltrained communication of his thoughts. 1
will dilate a little upon the circumltances that
attend such a difference of behavior, and leave
the reader to draw his own conclusions. He will
recolleA, that in this paper, I am remarking up
on characters that deserve some eminence for
their abilities.
The different views men entertain of applaule
and influence lead them to strike upon different
expedients for promoting their reputation. One
man has ail ardour of spirits that tliirits conftant
lyafter frefh drafts of flattery ; and like a dram
drinker, he has a spark that al w ays wants quench
ing. This induces him to captivate attention
wherever he falls into company ; and he had rather
be gratified with momentary applause, than to
acquire that which may be durable, if the aequi
firion will fubjed: him to a temporary felf-denial.
The character the reverse of this gains slowly
upon the admiration of others ; but he holds fait
what he docs gain : He never loses any part of
the influence he obtains ; and encreafes the ve
neration of the world by appearing very indif
ferent abont it. _ _ i
While one man is ambitious of exciting admi
ration by the brilliancy of his wit, and the gaiety
and elegance of his conversation ; another avoids
those methods of allurement, and only wishes to
be refpccted for solidity of judgment, and for a
(paring, but pertinent, communication ofliisfen
timents. If one were asked which of tliefe cha
ratfters were molt desirable, he may re])ly that
eacJi of them may be most desirable to different
men, whose talte and views run in a different di
rection. The person of reserve, who seldom
speaks at all, and never but when he can fay
ibmethitig judicious and fingulatTy adapted to the
fubjed:, has more weight and influence in society
than he who always speaks, and often wanders
from the real merits of the queltion. It frequent
ly happens that men of the most active powers of
oratory are dazzled by their ownluftre, and make
many unimportant or erroneous remarks merely
for the fake of displaying their eloquence. Those
who fall into the praiftice of speaking a great
deahnay be certain they will let drop many things
that are neither jult or interesting. Every error
in opinion, and every falfe or improbable afier
tlon will bring a man into disrepute, and render
his judgment as well as veracity liable to suspi
cion. By this mfcans, when he makes an observa
tion that is judicious, it does not receive that cre
dit which it deserves, or that it would receive, if
he had been accustomed to speak with precaution.
It is true the fafcination of oratory, in many in
itances, gives a popularity to fpeeclies beyond
what they merit; but 110 substantial or permanent
influence can result from such captivations of ap
plause. Men guarded in their conversation
eltabliih a more beneficial influence ; their word
is equivalent to truth, and their opinions are ci
ted as authority to dired: the conducft of others.
Upon the whole, afenfible man, if he talks a great
deal may often be applauded ; if he talks but lit
tle, he will always be refpeCted.
A. £. ItiTablet No. XVIII, thefixth paragiaph, eleventh line,
"- r " mifdtmeavor" read demeanor.
A SKETCH OF THE POLITICAL STATE OF AMERICA.
[Continued from No. XVII.]
">S method and system, in conducting the
'ommon concerns of private life,are attended vtitli
''very advantage, and found to ailift greatly in
'he attainment of the objects we have in view,
wis argument applies with additional force to the
and important concerns involved in the eco
nomy of a nation. Tliefe being various and com
plicated in their nature, and indefinite in their
number, _ without order and system, would
e peculiarly liable to derangement and confufi
on - Hence arises the propriety of eftablifning
1| e K rea t executive departments of government,
' * their appropriate powers, and the
WEDNESDAY, June 17, 1789.
objects of their attention and management. As,
affairs relative to revenue and national income to
a financier—military matters to a secretary at
war—foreign affairs to a person specially appoint
ed—domestic concerns to their peculiar depart
ment—to a marine board the iuterell of a navy,
&c. Upon the requilite qualifications for tliefe fe
veral,offices and on the objedts of their commissi
on, I venture a few general observations. In a
financier we hope to find a critical acquaintance
with mankind, and the various thihgs which go
vern the heart—a knowledge of the history of
foreign nations—with a more particular infor
mation of that of his own country—the genius of
its inhabitants—different interelts of the commu
nity—the various sources from which to derive
an income to the public—the practical philoso
pher, and profound mathematician—acquainted
with the operation and fluctuation of money in
a State,and with the means of extending and equa
lizing itscirculation to common benefit; and in ge
neral,with a capacity to economize public expen
ditures,and by other means to eltablifh and support
national credit and consequence. The mechanical
bulinefs of the department of treal'ury or finance
will be to keep a fair and accurate ftateuient of the
national debts and credits, and so contracted as
to avoid embarraflinent, prevent error, and
deteCt fraud. In the war-office we are led to look
for a person of ability and information, acquired
by a long experience in martial purfuiis, a dis
ciplinarian, and well acquainted with the eco
nomy of a camp and military tallies—capable of
directing to the bell means for preserving the
health of the soldiery, of supplying them with ne
ceilaries,offupportinggarrifons and forts,and pur
suing every mode for his country's defence, with
propriety, and economy ; his attention to method
will enable him (whenever called upon for that
purpose by government) to present a full and ac
curate estimate upon every fubjedt comprised
within his department.
To dired: the concerns of the marine, will re
require an early and uniform education in naval
pursuits ; with ability to improve upon the infor
mation thus acquired—an acquaintance with the
best mode for obtaining good timber, &c. for the
building of ffiips and all the necellaries forcom
pleating them ; dlfo with the means to be purfu
cd for encouraging the increase of seamen—the
lealfc expenfivc mode for supplying them, and molt
efficacious method for preserving their valuable
lives, See. in this department will be kept accu
rate registers of the men employed in the navy—
estimates of their supplies and general expendi
tures, and upon a report of which to thefupreme
executive, will receive warrants on the treal'ury
for their disbursement.
The person filling the office for foreign affairs
with a knowledge of his own couiltry, ffiouldpof
fafs a general acquaintance with the history of
other Nations—be able to develope the arcana of
their politics,commercial purfuits,and readily fee
into their connection with probable effects upon
those of bis own country ; and while correspond
ing with our public officers and agents abroad on
tliefe fubje<fts,ffiould be fully capable of rendering
this information subservient to her best interests.
The department of domestic affairs, land-of
fice, national bank, &c. will be duly attended tc
in a future paper. AMERICANUS.
(To be continued.)
MESSAGE of the Governor of Maflachufetts to
both branches of the Legiflamre of that Com
monwealth.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
Gentlemen of the House o/Representatives,
I AM happy in congratulating you upon the
return of this anniversary, established by our free
and excellent constitution.
In a free Commonwealth, extensive enough for
the great porpofes of civil government and na
tional defence, the sentiments and feelings of
the people can be undcrftood and confulted,in 110
other way, than through a representation fuffi
ciently numerous and frequently appointed : The
clear and absolute pofleflion of this privilege,
with the certain right of tranfmittingit inviolate
topofterity, will be conftdered by the good citi
zens of this Stateas a full compensation for their
late glorious aud arduous ftrugglefor freedom.
As my fellow citizens have seen fit to honor me
with the office of Chief Magistrate, it affords me
o-reat fatisfaCtion to find that they have commit
ed their Legislative concerns to men, who so well
understand and can so ably execute the important
trust : And feeling myfelf well assured that the
discussion of the public business will be attended
with candor and unanimity, I ffiall readily con
cur in those measures which ffiall be by you
proposed for the general good of the government,
and the happiness of our constituents : And may
{Publijhed on Wednesday avd Saturday.]
the great Author of mercies so bless our endeavors
as that we, and the people of the Commonwealth,
may rejoice in the continuance of his divine fa
vors,bellowed upon a free and enlightened nation.
Since the adjournment of the late General
Court, anew and important era has commenced ;
the government of the United States of Ameri
rica has been completely oiganized—atthe head
of our infant nation is placed, by the united voice
of his country, One, who from his piety, wisdom
and ability, is evidently designed by Heaven n>
unite the affections of ad his fellow citizens, and
thus united, to lead them to national glory and
felicity.
Fromthe characters which form the two branch
es of Congress, we mull poflefs the liighelt con
fidence in that alterably, and are lead to antici
pate from their nieafures, the blessings of that se
curity and dignity,'which at all times are the re
sult of national wisdom, integrity and jullice ;
and I believe that the good people of the great
confederated Republic, may allure theinlehes
that the principles upon which the revolution was
supported will so forcibly inlinuate tliemfelves
into all the measures of that augult Legislature,
that no place will be opened to tliofe ideas of
monarchy and defpotifin, which have long Icourg
ed other parts of the world.
But it ought ever to be remembered, that no
form of government, or mode of admin iftration,
can make a vicious people happy, and that there
fore, the public felicity will in a great measure
depend upon the exercise of the l'ocial and private
virtues, by the people of this extensive republic.
That this Commonwealth, which constitutes so
important a part of the general government, may
increase its own internal prosperity, while it pro
motes that of the Union, we ought to support and
encourage the means of learning, and all institu
tions for the education of the riling generation ;
an equal diltribution of intelligence being as ne
cellary to a free government, as laws for an equal
diltribution of property.
Our wife and magnanimous anceltors, imprefl
ed with this idea, were very liberal and careful
in the eltablilhment of inltitutions for this pur
pose ; among which, that of our Uni-verlity In
Cambridge, and that of Grammar Schools in our
• n*
towns, were very important : Every necellary at
tention will certainly be paid to the former, and
I cannot but earnellly recommend to your inqui
ry, the reason why the latter is so much neglected
in the State : Should any new laws be wanted in
this matter, you cannot do your country a more
efiential service, than provide them.
Notwitliltanding the just expectations we have
from the government of the United States, yet
the honor and crcdit of the several States are of
vast importance to the citizens of tliem. In this
State we have accumulated in the course of the
late war, a very heavy debt ; individuals of the
community have loaned their property to support
their diltreffed country.—The resources of the
Commonwealth are as well known to you, gen
tlemen, as they arc to me, and I feel myfelf allu
red of your serious attention to measures directed
to the support of public credit, and the ellablilh
ment of public jullice.
Pursuant to a rcfolution pafled by the Legisla
ture in their late feflion, the Sheriffs of the seve
ral counties have been called upon to return, and
fettle the executions which have been committed
to them againlt defective collectors of public
taxes : A Itate ps their settlements I have direc
ted the treasurer to lay before you.
I lhall communicate to you such matters, from
time to time, as I may find to be necellary for the
interest of government, but am very happy to in
form you, that from a state of external and in
ternal peace and quietnefs,no bulinefs is likely to
call for your attention but the common and or
dinary concerns of supporting government.
JOHN HANCOCK.
Bofion, June 8, 1789.
~~A TALK,
Lately sent by the Coinmiflioners of Indian affairs
in the Southern Department to the Creeks cor
respondent.
To the Head Men, Chiefs, and IVarriors of the Creek
Nation.
WE last year appointed a time and place for
holding a treaty with you to eltablilh a Jailing
peace between you and us, that we might again
become as one people ; you all know the real'ons
why it was not held at that time.
We now fend you this talk, inviting you to 3
treaty on your bank of the Oconee river, at the
Rock Landing. We wilhed to meet you at that
place on the eighth of June, but, as that day is
so near at hand, you might not all get notice. We
therefore lhall expect to meet you on the 20th of
June.We liave changed the place of meeting from
that of laftyear ; so that none of you should have
reason to complain : It i» your own ground, ana
on that land we wish to renew our former'trade
and friendships, and to remove every thing that
has blinded the path between you and us.
We are now governed by a President, who is like
the old King over the Great Water. He commands
all the Warriors of the Thirteen Great Fires. He
will have regard to the welfare of all the Indians ;
and when peace lhall be established, he will be
your father, and you will be his children, so that
none shall dare to do you harm.
We know that lands have been the cause of
dispute between you and the white people ; but
we now tell you that we want no new grants ;
our obje>ftis to make a peace, and to unite us all
under our Great Chief Warrior and President,
who is the Father and Proteeftor of all the white
people. Attend to what we fay.
Our traders are very rich, and have houses full
of filch goods as you were used to get in former
days ; it is our wish that you Should trade with
them and they with you, in ftridt friendfhip.
Our brother George Galphin will carry you this
talk ; listen to him, he will tell you nothing but
truth from us. Send us your answer by him.
Andrew Pickens of the U,,,ted State,
7 > for Indian Affairs in the South-
H.Osborne. \ J ern Department.
April 20, 1789. [_A true copy from the original.]
CHARACTER OF THE NEAPOLITAN.
From Sherlock's Letters.
Travellers are often mistaken in judging of the
Italian, especially the Neapolitan. They think
he has no sense, because he wants ideas. A man
can have but few ideas when he has never been
out of his own country, and when he has read
nothing; but examine the Neapolitan on all the
subjeCts with which he is acquainted, and you will
fee whether he wants natural capacity. He re
sembles the foil of his own country : a field well
tilled in Naples produces the moll plentiful ci ops ;
neglected, it yields but briars and thirties. It
is the fame with the genius of the inhabitants ;
cultivated, it is capable of everything ; untilled ;
it produces only folly and vice.
ON MRS. SIDDONS.
A CELEBRATED ACTRESS IN LONDON.
WHAT art thou ! Thou who canst steel foft
pity's tender bread, and at thy feign'd revenge,
teach her to greet the agonizing groan, and eye
the reeking dagger with a smile 1
i hou, who canlt soothe the rooted anguish of
the fmai ting foul, and turn its trickling streams
to bathe thy painted wounds !
I hou, who canlt arrest the callous thief*—
suspend liis pilfering rage—teach him to feel—
and drop an honeji tear 011 thy fictitious grief!
Thou, who canst wring the Stoic's ltubborn
heart, and force the maiden tear !
Thou, who canst melt the Miser's flinty foul,
and make him weep andgive J
What art thou ! the dazzling meteor of a stint
ed day ! A splendid transient wonder! great, but
confin'd ; and where unseen, unknown ; for alas !
thine is a trackless path, where no vestige can di
rect to trace thy glory: The unseen Beauty fee
bly thrills in story ; and as when radiant Phoebus
dii'appears, the pale-face Moon comes forth, and
faintly cheers us for the loss of day—so fonie less
brilliant light, not rilen, or now loft in thy su
perior blaze, when SIDDONS sets, lhall glitter in
its turn, the idol glory of a darker hour. E. C.
* It was said that a thief wasfo much affr&cd with Mrs. SidJon's
actin , that he was detected in the of picking a pocket, by neg
lecting to withdraw his hand.
ON SCANDAL.
- ——" Hcrretlatcri iethalis Arundo."
AGAINST Slander there is rto defence. Hell
cannot boast so foul a fiend ; nor man deplore so
fell a foe : It stabs with a word—with a nod
with a shrug—with a look—with a fiuile : It is
the pestilence walkingin darkness, spreading con
tagion far and wide, which the most wary tra
veller cannot avoid : It is the heart-searching
dagger of the dark Aflaflin : It is the poisoned
arorw, whose wound is incurable : It is the mor
tal fling of the deadly adder : MURDER is its
employment: INNOCENCE it's prey—and RUIN
itsfport. E. C.
LAW and PHYSIC.
IT has been a fubjet r t of enquiry, how it comes
to pals that the profeflions of law and phyftc ap
pear to have preserved a decided pre-eminence
of all others, in all the variation of principles
and manners, that have obtained among man
kind ?—This may be accounted for si om this con
federation, viz : That their obje<ft is the security
of the h:alth and property of individuals. The
most felfiih and effeminate of mankind will al
ways be more attentive to the preservation of
those, in proportion as they are less attentive to the
public welfare, and loft to all generous afFections
and regards.
AN EXTRACT.
To a Young Gentleman—dijfuading him from poetical purjuits.
AND would'ft thou then in talks of vcrfe engage ?
Throbs thy young bosom with poetic rage ?
Oh, trust th' experiene'd ; trust me, dearest boy,
The walks of Pindus leldom lead to joy.
In thole green paths, while yet 'tis morning play ;
Cull the wild flowers that rife along the way ;
In chafing butterflies consume thy prime,
Adorn thy temples with the shoots of rhyme :
A while thou may'ft, if thus thy fancy leads
But range not long in those enchanting meads.
To grave purfuits?.nd serious talks retire,
Ere manhood rises to meridian fire ;
Left thou fhould'ft fee (the noon in trifling past } )
Thy fun descend in poverty at last.
Yet Wisdom's voice, thy foul did wisdom fvvay,
Would wjkint turn thy felf-deluding way ;
Not one short moment given to youthful heat,
One pause of dalliance, in the Muses' feat :
Within their bowers a thousand demons bide,
A thousand snakes within their flow'rets hide.
A plastic God informs the Poet's mind,
He makes the beauteous which he does not find,
Displays th* ideal paradise around,
And fmilesthe barren heath to fairy ground ;
His Midas' hands ennobled objects hold,
And feel and touch the meancft dross to gold.
Ah fatal gift, what comfort canst thou bring ?
Less to the Bard than to the 1 ydian king.
Attendant Fancy, from the wilds of air,
Convokes the smiling families of Fair,
The beauteous elves that o'er creation rove,
Delightful children of almighty Love :
Prompt at her call, the bright ideas throng,
And rush profufely through the bloomy song.
At Fancy's fide, the young-ey'd Paflions Hand,
Sweet blushing boys, in form, a cherub band ;
The foul expands, to lodge the smiling train,
Ah, little fearful of the future pain !
Beneath his wings each veils a barbed dart,
Till deep it quivers in the bleeding heart,
Then marks, with cruel pride, his guilty (kill,
And flutters round, in wantonnefs of ill.
SKETCH of PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
Jn the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES.
Saturday, June 13, 1789.
In committee of the whole, 011 the bill to regu
late the collection of the revenue.
Mr. Trumbull in the chair.
The bill this day received such further discus
fion, as to alcertain the general sentiment ol
the committee ; agreeably to this, several amend
ments were introduced. Many observations were
made refpecfting the most eligible mode of rea
lizing the duties into the public treasury, in ca
ses of bonds, insolvency, and non-payments:
But previous to any decision, Mr. Kitzsimons
moved, that the committee should rife—and that
the bill with the amendments should be referred
to a select committee, who should report a new
bill.—This motion was adopted, and Messieurs
Goodhue,l'itzsimons, Laurance,Burke, Li
vermore,Sherman and Jackson were elected.
Mr. Gerry proposed arefolution, that it should
be a {landing order of the lioufe in future, al
ways to adjourn from Friday to Monday—laid 011
the table.
Mr. Leonard proposed a resolution, that the
conllitution, should be prefixed to the firft volume
of the laws to be printed—laid on the table.
Adjourned until Monday.
Monday, June 15.
Mr. Brown, member from Virginia, and Mr.
Sedgwick, member from Maflachufetts, appear
ed in the House, had the oath prescribed by the
Conllitution administered to them, and took their
feats.
Upon motion of Mr. Goodhue it was voted,
that two members be added to the committee ap
pointed to bring in a new bill to regulate the col
lection of the Import: throughout the United
States.—Mr. Smith of Maryland, and Mr. Par
ker of Virginia were accordingly appointed.
Mr. Scott, from the Committee to consider the
state of the unappropriated lands in the weltern
teriitory, reported—this report contained a very
particular geographical account of that country.
Voted, that this report b<v referred to a com
mittee of the whole upon the state of the Union.
'1 he House then proceeded to the considera
tion of the amendments, which had been pro
posed by the Senate, to the bill for imposing du
ties on goods, wares, and merchandise import
ed into the United States. 1
The enablingftile of the bill, viz. The Con
gress of the United States, was amended
by the Senate, by proposing to insert " The
Senate and R-ep^f.sentatives of the Uni
te dS i ate s—this amendment was non-concurred.
That clause of the bill which made a difcr" ■
nation between States and Kingdoms iii
with the United States, and those which at-' 1100
with refpecft to the duty on distilled spirits • Th''
Senate proposed should be struck out—A ret
tulation of arguments used in the former n?'"
grefs of the bill on both fides of the queftLT
with little variation took place the result
non-concurrence with the Senate. ° Vas '
The following amendments proposed by t }i
Senate, were alio non-concurred by the House v' '
A reduction of the duty on fp'irits of Jamais
proof from 15 to 10 cents—on other lpirus f ro „,
[2 to 8 cents. Dl
The amendment which provides for the re-luc
tion of the duty on the following articles \ vas a "
ceeded to, viz.
Molafl'es from j to 2 1-2 cents.
All Wines exept Madeira 15 t0 iocent"
The next amendments were to reduce the duties
on the following articles ,viz.
Madeira Wine from 25 t0 f8 cents
Beer, Ale or Porter in calks, from Bto $ cents''
Cider,Beer,Ale or Porter in bottles, 25 to 16 cent-
Cables from 75 to 60 c^.'
Tarred Cordage from 7Jto6ocent<
Twine or Pack Thread from 2Ciotoi jocenV
On Coal per bufliel from 3 t0 t cen "
—These reductions were non-concurred.
The Senate introduced the article Indigo, with
a duty of 16 cents per pound—this the House con
curred in.
The next amendment was to add to the follow
ing paragraph refpeeting Teas, viz. On all
Teas imported from China or India in fhipsbuilt
within the United States, and belonging to a
citizen or citizens thereof—this clause, viz. « or
in (hips or veflels built in foreign countries, and
011 the 16th of May last the property of a citizen
or citizens of the United States, and so continu
ing until the time of importation."
This was agreed to.
The next amendment was to enhance the datv
on all Green Teas other than Hyson, imported
as aforefaid from 10 to 12 cents per pound.-
Agreed to.
The next amendment was to strike out the fol
lowing clause—
On all I eas imported from any country other
than China or India, in any ship or veflel, what
soever, or from China or India in any Ihiporveflel,
which is not wholly the property of a citizen
or citizens of the United States, as follows:
On Bohea Tea, per pound 10 cents.
On all Souchong or other Black Teas 1 j
On all Hyson Teas, 50
011 all Green Teas, 18
and to substitute—
" On teas imported from Europe in (hips or
veflels built in the United States, and wholly be
longing to a citizen or citizens thereof, or in Ihips
built in foreign countries, and on the 16th of
May lall the property of a citizen or citizens of
the United States, and so continuing till the time
of importation, to wit :
011 Bohea Tea, pr. lb. 8 cents.
On Souchong, or other black Teas, 13
On Hyson Teas, 26
On other Green Teas, 16
" 011 Teas imported in any other manner,
Bohea Tea, pr. lb.
Souchong, or other black Teas, 22
Hyson Teas, \ 4$
Other green Teas, 27
The following clause was proposed by the Se*
na te—" 011 all other goods, wares, and merchan
dize imported in Ihips or veflels not built within
the United States, aud not wholly the property
of a citizen or citizens thereof, or in veflels built
in foreign countries, and 011 the 16th of May last
the property of a citizen or citizens of the United
States, and so continuing till the time of importa
tion, twelve and an half pr. cent. ad. valorem.
This was adopted.
The next amendment was to insert, " On gun
powder, and paints ground in oil," ten pr. cent.
ad valoiem. Adopted.
Another amendment was to enhance the duty
on gold, lilver, and plated ware, from seven and
an half pr. cent, to 10 pr. cent, and to add there
to gold and lilver lace, and gold and lilver leaf—
this was agreed to.
There were several other amendments to raise
the duties on articles enumerated, from seven and
an half pr. cent, to ten pr. cent.—which were non
concurred.
A general concurrence with the Senate in their
amendments to the bill, was urged by several
gentlemen—They observed, that much time had
already been expended in the difcuflion of [he
fubjec't—that further delay would be lacrificing
the revenne—that there was danger ofourloling
the benefit ofthefall importations—that the hig
duties which had been voted by the House, w ere
contrary to the opinion of a large minority; 1 13 V
ing been carried by a veryfmall majority —to
minority, was now added, the almost unanimous
voice of the Senate, therefore to reje.3 the amend
ments of the Seriate was hazarding the fate 0
the present bill—The sentiment in favor of lo*
duties, was fanJtioned by the invariable e%p
enceof the commercial world—they were al ir 2)-■ r t j ve of greater revenue than high' duties,
latter held cut a powerful temptation to
S -the laws : The public voice it was contend-
duties, and accounts
from mercantile characters in various
K sos the Union, confirmed the truth of this
''bfervation : That as the operation and success
of die laws, i n the firft instance, wuft depend up
on the general opinion of their eligibility, it was
ra(h to riik the popularity of the government in
a cafe where no rilk was neceflary : That the duty
on spirits, in particular, was beyond all prece
dent, and would undoubtedly be evaded, as it
was a premium to smuggle.
On the other hand it -was said, that the duties
were in ceneral conformable to the sentiments
of the people—particularly on diltillecl ipirits
—that on bulky articles, high duties could be re
alized with some degree of certainty—that the
probable amount of the proposed duties would
fall ihort of the exigencies of the Union—the
prcmofed deduction in some cases would curtail
it 50 per cent. —that it yet remained to be ascer
tained whether high duties in many cases could
not be collected with as great facility as low—
the prompt collection of both being matter of
{peculation at present—that it was conceded 011
all hands that a revenue 111 uft be obtained, or the
country be ruined.—Direct raxes could not be
jhoujrht of; and even the excise would be unpopu
lar—Thatthe opinion of refpeAable commercial
characters was in favor of the proposed duties:
particularly the duty on spirits, agreeably to their
ideas could be easily collected, even if it had
been set at a higher rate.
June 16, 1789.
House met agreeably to adjournment.
Amotion was made by Mr. White, and adopted, that feats
be provided for such members of the Senate as please to attend the
debates, within the bar of the House.
The House then proceeded to consider the remainder of the a
mendments proposed by the Senate to the Impoll Bill—when the
following being read, were acceded to.—-viz.
To insert Playing Cards at a duty of 10 cents pr. pack.
Cotton, at 3 cents, pr. lb.
, To allow a drawback on Brandy and Geneva, exported from
the United States.
After the words " exported out of the limits of the United
States" to add the following, viz. as fettled by the late treaty of peace.
Toftrike out the sentence which provided for allowing a draw
tack of 5 cents, pr. gallon, on Spirits, distilled from Molafles in
the United States, and exported out of the fame.
The discount of 10 per cent on goods, wares, and merchan
diCe, imported in veflels built in the United States, and owned
byacitzen, or citizens thereof, extended to goods, &c. im
ported in veflels not built in the United States, but which were
owned bv a citizen, or citizens thereof, on the 16th May last, and
continued so till the time of the importation of such goods.
The House did not concur in the time fixed by the Senate for
this ast to be in force, viz. The firft of July next—and fubftitu
tcd the firft of August.
The House then resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole,
to take into consideration the bill for the cftablifhing an execu
tive department, to be denominated the department of foreign
affairs.
Mr. White proposed that this clause " To be rcmoveable by
the Prdident of the United Stntes" should be flruck out.
This brought on an interesting debate, which continued till
near half after three o'clock, when the committee rose, and the
House adjourned.
A Jketch of this debate in our next.
FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES.
London, March 17. His Roval Highness the Princc of
Wales met with very considerable indignity from the crowd on
Tuesday night last, in going from Carleton-houfe to the Opera,
and was more than once obliged to hold up his stick in his defence.
His Royal Highness had, in a manner, anticipated what might
happen, and therefore very prudently went on foot. We sincere
ly hope that the Prince will not coniider this event as any want
ofrefpeft of the public at large for his person and chara&er.
The Duke of York having heard w hat his brother had related
of his adventure in reaching thcopera-houfe, was prudent enough
toavo:d any difagrceable confcquences in going home; for hear
ing the mob cry out " Pitt for ever," on his getting into the street,
2nd feeling himfelf jostled about, he, with a spirited exertion,
forced himfelf through the crowd back again, and reached the
house, where he pulled off his liar, which enabled him to make
htf second retreat fuccefsful.
Dublin, March 21.
CONTRASTS.
The Pool o f Siloam, at Jerulalcm, so eelebaated in Jewish
story— now a Tan Pit.
The superb columns which once graced the Temple of Diana,
uowp.acrd at one of the gates of the Saraglio, inverted. The
gardens of Nero, formerly watered with the blood of the firft
hriftians, butchercd bv that inhuman tyrant —now adorned with
temple which far ouilhines the ancient glories of the capitol,
«nd dedicated to thcfervice of the fame persecuted religion.
Greece, once the native land of liberty, the birth-place of ge
nu's, the school of h'-roes and patriots.—Greece, in whose he
-1711 pherethe fun of science flamed with unusual splendor, for up-
Ua ! 7 00 vcars. now the land of ignorance, superstition,
| n ,f m °ft abject slavery; religion and politics united to fetter
tne mind and the body, to repress injury, and inspire a
overeign contempt for every book except the Koran.
Hali fax, May 16. Sir Richard Hughes is appointed Admi
,a on thisfktion, in the room of Sir Charles Douglas.
Y' —a, June 11. We have received so much pleasure
3n from a late publication by Mr. Morse, giving
the C °"' ra^" f '°^ cr 'P t ' on tb c United States, that prefuining on
growingpainon for American manufa&ures of every denomi
cannot refrain from recommending it to the notice of
k C1 or < j IUr c °untrymen, as begin to set a proper estimate on the
of°th ? C of thr own country, its manners and habits.—Most
deri C , f ormatlon hitherto given refpe&ing America, has been
littj VC " tne P art ' prejudiced accounts of foreigners,
p e , \ ac( l ua,ntt d with the natural curiosities of our country or
„ F' c ' ; ~r^ e,,ce i it is no wonder that both should be liable to
kafed^' re ? rc^ cntat * ons ' an< * the genius of the people so much de
af W option of the literati in Europe, as to have furnifh-
i cr , JVA inquiry to their most eloquent wri-
America are by historians, that on the firft discovery of
of a\ I'e ,C, P an^ar^s were conndercd by the nat ves as beings
10rdert .° themselves ; that there frighted imaginations
em even into Gods.—Fanciful and accidental diftintti
ons of lupciiority have often given birth to the mod unjust claims.
It appears, that the pride and arrogance of Europe, availing it-
Telf of this firft impreflion on an unfortunate race, would wil
lingly believe it founded in nature, and by an easy transition, ex
tend the degrading comparison to those descended from thtm
lelves.—Such a dclufion inculcated on infant minds, would n<
doubt facilitate their ichemes of tyranny towards us. As it is
Lime our youth should be weaned of their predile£Hons of ever\
lort in favor of Europe, and its manners, we mull hope that a
book, whofe.objeft is to make them intimately acquainted with
their country, and the abundant materials of future greatness
Ihowered on it by Providence, connot fail meeting with the pa
tronage of those entrusted with their care.
George-Town, (Patowmack) June 4.
Extratt of a letter from, a farmer in Washington-county, on Patowmack.
to a gentleman 0) the Patowmack company, dated May 20, 17 89.
" Living near the banks ot this river, and viewing yefterclay
thirteen long loaded boats, and seven this morning, p.ifs down
under full fail, with colours flying and various music, in joyous
trainand good order : Under luch pleafmg profpe£ts,*permit nit
to orfer my sincere and grateful thanks, as a just tribute, due to so
noble an undertaking, in eftablilhing the navigation at present
upwards of 150 miles above tide-water, through a rich and fer
tile country —which, from its various ufeful branches, draws the
produce into the main channel, from 40 to 50 miles on each iide,
exclusive ot the near and convenient communication it has with
the Ohio, which in all human probability will bring on commer
cial connexions, that will unite a tie of laftingintereft and friend
lfrip. The advantage of carriage in the present infant Hate of the
river, already saves from 250 to 3001. on the flour I annually ex
port : compare this with the community' in general—what will
it be when fully accoinplithed ? And it mult lead us into many
plcalmg reflections on your laudable undertaking. Long may
you all live to receive toll—particularly your leading members
who have for many years used their exertion and influence to
bring it on." '
Philadelphia, June 13.
IMPROVEMENTS IN THE POLITE ARTS.
ExtraEl of a letter from London to a gentleman in this city.
' lam now engaged in a work that will cost more than one
hundred thousand pounds ; have now at least forty pictures finifh
ed, lome of which cost 500 guineas each, many 300 to 200. Am
now building a gallery in Pail-Mall, inorder to (hew thepi&ures
to the best advantage : It will cost above live thousand pounds—is
nearly completed, and will be opened this spring. The front is
of stone, ornamented with three statues in a large niche of 11 feet
high and 10 broad—ln the middle is a fine figure 7 feet high of
Shakefpear seated upon a pedestal, on his right hand a beauti
ful female figure, representing Poetry, with the tragic and comic
mafquesupon her head, a lyre in one hand, the other crowning
Shakefpear with a crown of laurel. On his left hand Painting
reprelented likewise by a beautiful female figure, in her left hand
a pallet and pencils, the other presenting Shakefpear to the public.
Shakefpear has his left hand on the Ihoulder of Painting, as if in
treating her to exert her utmost abilities to represent his works to
the greatest advantage."
Extract of a letter from New-York, dated June 5.
" Rcfpe6fcing two of the three great departments or Secretary
lhips, little has been said, as a general supposition prevails that the
prtTent incumbents will be continued. The other is much more
a topic of conversation and conjecture. The eyes ot many would
be turned towards Mr. Morris if it was not thought incompatible
with his Senatorfhip ; but if this obje&ion did not exist, there
would be others raised which would require attention from other
circumstances if not from their merits. There are prejudices
against as well as for him. Three persons have been a good deal
talked of: Mr. Ofgood, Mr. Pettit, and Mr. Hamilton. Which
of these would be the most proper, or whether either of them, I
do not undertake to determine, as I have but little personal know
ledge of them.
" The fir ft is deemed* what is commonly called a good fort of
■ man, but it is thought that a sphere of less extent would be more
suitable for him.
The feeond is supposed to nnderftand the fubje&s which be
long to the Treasury department better than either of the others.
His talents and his integrity are well spoken of by many ; but I
find others, especially some from Penfylvania, do not seem to like
•us political opinions and conduct, though they will allow him
merit and understanding in other refpe&s. If he mnft be in Of
fice they would rather fee him one of the judgesora Commiflloner
of the Customs than Financier. This perhaps may be accounted
for from your state politicks, as he is faidto be nouaf the party
with your members now in Congress.
" The third is certainlv a man of considerable talents for his
years and experience; but it is thought that his present qualifications
are better adapted to the law department than that of the treasury.
He has obtained a high degree of popularity in this city, and if he
has (kill to manage it properly, his consequence must increase.
But when the pulse of party beats so high as it has lately done, the
tide of popularity is liable to great changes. At present the
people of this city think no office too high for him, and hence he
is the most talked of among us for the head of the treasury.
" The appointment of the judges isalfo a matter of great ex
pectation. We are told your State to furnifh a chief.
What your reasons is for this expectation I shall not now enquire;
but this I can tell you, that some of you think more highly of the
man you propose than the people of other States do. Perhaps
you will make a like remark refpe&ing our popular charaCter;
but remember he is yet but in the morning of life, and has not
been long enough above the horizen to have extended his rays so
far as one that has reached if not pasTed his zenith."
Ext raft of a letter from a gentleman in Lebanon, to his friend in this
town, dated May 24.
" The extraordinary cures performed by the Rev. Mr. Willi
liam Stoy, minifterofthe German congregation in this town, on
persons bit by mad dogs, will no doubt remove your anxiety for
the recovery of your friend. He has saved the lives of at least
300 persons within thefc four years past, 60 of whom were cured
lince Chriftmaslaft; some of them were brought with all the
fymytoms of the horrid disorder; in particular a Mr. B ,
a reputable merchant from Ne«v-York, come to this town last
fall, in the height of the hydrophobia, and in fa£t raving mad—
the medicines had the most miraculous effeCl ; it restored him to his
senses in the small fpaceof twenty-four hours. This perhaps will
appear fabulous to some, but the fa£t can be proved by thousands,
who saw the unfortunate object before and since the experiment
took place. Mr. Stoy is about laying his discovery before Con
gress, on condition of being allowed a reward."
Boston, Tune 9.
On Thursday 28th ult. arrived at Providence, the brig Ran
ger, Capt. Bahoon, from a whaling voyage, with 500 barrels of
oil.
NEW-YORK, JUNE 17, J7 Bg.
Extraß of a letter from Bojlon, dated June 6, 1789.
" The period is at hand, when the appointment of officers for
the executive branch of Government will commence. We all
have perfect confidence in the judgment and impartiality of our
illustrious President. If in any instance it is supposed better men
might be appointed, it Ihould not occasion complaint; because
we are led to believe, that the candidates for office must produce
unequivocal credentials of their merit. No difficulty is appre
hended from appointment of chara&ers who are not meritorious ;
but our only fear is, that some modest men, who are eminently
deserving, will not offer themselves as candidates, merely be
cause they are unwilling to be seen in procuring testimonials in
their own favour.—Under such circumstances, is it not rather cri
minal for men, who have reason to believe their services will be
ufeiul, and who ihouldnot doubt the success of an application, to
hold themselves aloof, and by that means keep back their abilities
tr om promoting the public good ?"
While we fuller our lands to lie waste andufe
lefs, which ought to be appropriated as Iheep
walks—while we cut off the prospeCt of a large
and plentiful supply of wool, by killing the lruiibs,
co pamper our appetites—while we liegleCt the
railing of hemp and llax, andlpend our time idly,
uid in unavailing complaints ; fay, are we taking
the neceilary iteps to eltablilb a solid independen
cy, or to raise and support our national character?
While we feel ourselves dtpendent on any foreign
country for the very cloaths that we wear, can it be
laid that we are an independent people.
The rage of the present day Appears to be ex
periment—and in the opinion of many persons
very improperly, considering the particular cir
cumstances of the Union. Every new project is
attended with some surprize, suspension, and re
laxation of the human faculties, till the relult is
known : at a time when every nerve ought to be
on the ltretch to retrieve our circumstances, by
pursuing thole objects which a happy and fuccefs
ful experience has taught us, will conduce to the
general interest—l fay at such a time to be war.---
dcring in the unexplored regions of experiment,
either in enaCting laws that lhall have a sumptu
ary operation, or a temporary influence in favor
of particular manufactures, is foregoing the cer
tain advantages ofßevenuefortlie uncertain and
unproductive effeCts of a fyltem of Projects.
That a Revenue may be derived from the Im
port, trade must be encouraged : That our own
manufactures may be promoted, prohibitions mult
be laid upon foreign article's : thefemay be
made compatible in a series of years, is perhaps
true ; but it may require conlideration whether a
br'tjk Commerce } and a productive Revenue, will be
the immediate consequence of an attempt to
promote trade and manufactures at the present
moment.
" To incapacity and demerit is generally added
infolence —Every low minded fellow looks upon
the man of genius, capacity, and virtue, as his
natural enemy. He regards him with an evil eye ;
and hence undermines or defames him, as one
who thwarts his views, queltions his title, and
endangers his expectations. He must have had
little experience in the world, who has not among
every order, met with flagrant characters of this
kind, and instances of this truth."
" Let it be impressed on the mind of every
American, that honest industry, limplicity, fru
gality aud sobriety, with all the social and moral
virtues, alone constitute the sacred palladium of
our liberties—with these, we never can be en
slaved : without them, we muftceafetobe free—
nay, bereft of these we should be too abjeCt—too
vile, to retain a relilhfor heaven-born freedom."
A motion lately made in the House of Rcprefentatives ot Maf
fachufctts, to petition Congress to take up the fubjett of Amend
ments, fell to the ground, for want of an auxiliary to support it.
Saturday afternoon arrived from Philadelphia,
the Lady and Son of the Hon. Frederick Au
gustus Muhi-Enburgh, Speaker of the Hon.
House of Representatives of the United States,
escorted by Col. Melcher.
His Excellency John Sullivan is chosen President of the
State of New-Hampftiire.
The Legislature of the State of New-York, is, by Proclamation
of His Excellency the Governor, to meet at the city of Albany on
Monday the 6th day of July next.
ARRIVALS. NEW_ YORK.
Sunday. Brig Resolution, Jenkins, Dublin. 66 days.
Schooner Charlotte, Townfend, Island of ? j
St. Johns, Gulph ot St. Lawrence. $ a^S *
Sloop Nabby, Smith, Baltimore, n days.
Monday. Schooner Experiment, Smith, Baltimore. 9 days.
Sloop Matilda, Burke, St. Croix. 19. days.
Sloop Peggy, Little, Curracoa. 17 days.
Sloop San Souci, Crozier, Peterfburgh,Virginia.4days.
Tuesday. Ship Jenny, Thompson, Canton.
Brig Tom, Hand, Glasgow. 71 days.
PRICE CURRENT. NEW-YORK.
June 17, 1789.
Jamaica Spirits, ...
Antigua Rum, - - - f - 5 r
St. Croix, do. - 4yg.
Country, do. - - 2f&. a 2JII.
Molafles, - sf>2. a 2/3.
Brandy, ... 5 J6. a 5/9.
Geneva, -
Do. in cases, - . - 29\Jl
Muscovado Sugar, - - 56f. a 72\Jl
Loaf, do. - 1/3.
Lump, do. - -
Pepper, - - - - 2/8.
Pimento, - IJg. a if.
Chocolate, - \j2.
Cocoa, - - "7 5f- & 80s.
Coffee, - . 1/8. a 1/9-
Indigo, (Carolina) - - 4f. a 6f.
Rice, , - 22 /6- a 23/.
Superfine Flour, - - - 46f.
Common do. - - 42/6. a. 43J.
Rye do. ... 26/ I a 27f.
Indian Meal, ... igr
Rye, - - pr. bujh.
Corn, (Southern) - - 3^9.
Do. (Northern,) - a 4J6.
Beef, firft quality, - - 48f. a 50f,
Second quality, . - - 4\f6.
Pork, firft quality, - - 81/6.
Second quality, - - 76f6.
Lard, - - Bd. fr. lb.
Butter, « - - yd. a 8//.
Hams, - 6d%. a yd.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
\Gontinncd from our la/I.]
The next year, 371 diflentions were renewed
with more acrimony than ever. Manlius, whole
Ipirit was not accultomed to humiliation, was ex
afperatedat his imprisonment, Coll'us having not
dared to proceed with the decision of Cincinna
tus against Melius, and even the jenate having
been compelled to give way to the discontent ot
the people, was animated to attempt a reforma
tion of the constitution. " How long," laid he
to the people, "will you be ignorant of your own
ltrengtb, of which nature has not thought fit that
bealls themselves Ihould be ignorant ? Count
your number, and that of your adversaries ; shew
the war, and you will have peace : Let them fee
that you are prepared, and they will immediately
grant what you alk ; determine to be bold in un
dertaking, orrelblveto fufFer theutmoltinjuries.
Howlong will you fix your eyes upon me ? Mull
I repeat the fate of Calfius and Melius ? I hope
the gods will avert such a misfortune from me :
But tliofe gods will not descend from heaven to
defend ine. You mull remove the danger from
me. Shall your resistance to the senate always
end in fubmillion to the yoke ? That disposition
is not natural to you ; it is the habit of fuffering
them to ride you, which they have made their
right and inheritance. Why are you so cou
rageous againlt your enemies abroad, and so loft
and timorous in defence of your liberty at home?
Yet you have hitherto always obtained what you
demanded. It is now time to undertake greater
things. You will find less difficulty in giving the
senators a malter, than it has colt you to defend
yourfeves againlt them, while they have had the
power and the will to lord it over you. Dela
tors and conjuls must be abolijhed, if you -would have
the people raise their heads. Unite with me ; prevent
debtors from the rigours of thole odious laws.
I declare myfelf the patron and protestor of the
people; if you art for exalting yonr chief by
any more splendid title, or illultrious dignity,
you will only augment his power for your sup
port, and to obtain your dehres.—Ego me patro
num pi ofiteor plebis : vos, li, quo inligni ma«is
imperii honorifve nomine veltrum appellabitis
ducem, eo utemini potentiore ad obtinenda ea
qua vultis."_ Liv. This is a manifelt intention
ol introducinga balance of three branches.
In this oration are all the principles of the En
glifli conititution. The authority and power of
the people to demolilh one form of government
and eretft another, according to their own judg
ment or will is clearly aliened. The neceflity
of abolilhing the dictators and consuls, and giv
ing to one chief magiftratethe power to controul
the lenate, and protect the people/is pointedout.
The senate is not proposed to be abolished, nor
the aflemblies of the people, nor their tribunes ;
but the abolition of cruel debtors laws, and re
dress of the people's grievances, is to be the con
sequence. The arriltocracy was at that time a
cruel tyranny ; the people felt it ; Manlius ac
knowledged it : Both saw the necelfity of new
modelling the constitution, and introducing the
three branches of Romulus and Lycurgus, 'with
better and clearer limitations; and both were
desirous of attempting it.
(To be continued.)
\
Jin ESSAY on FREE TRADE and FINANCES :
Written by a citizen of Philadelphia, in 1783.
[Continuedfrom our /«/?.]
• This mode of taxation, saves the whole sum
of the tax to the States, while at the fame time it
wends the habits and health of the people : For 'tis
plain, that if the consumption of such imported
goods is leflened by the tax, a less quantity will
be imported, and of course a less sum of money
need be lent abroad to pay the firft cost of these
goods ; and this excels of money which is thus
laved from going abroad, (from whence it would
nevei return,) is paid by t.ie tax into the public
treasury, from whence it ifi'ues on the public fer
■\ice, ana is directly thrown into circulation
again through the States, and of course becomes
a clear laving, or balance of increase of the cir
culating medium, and consequently of realized
wealth in the country ; whillt at the fame time
the peopie are better served and accommodated
by the reduced consumption, than they could
have been by the excellive one.
V. It appears from what has been just now ob
served, that this mode of taxation naturally increases
the circulating of the States, and every one knows
what a spring, what vigor this gives to every
kind of bulmefs in the country, whether of hus
bandry, mehcanic arts, or trade. There is no
comparison between the advantages of carrying
on any fort of business, in a country where ca/h
circulates freely, and in a country where cafli is
scarce. In the one cafe, every kind of business
will ftourrfh, and ihduftry has every fort of en
couragement and motive for exertion ; in the
other, all business must be sadly em ban ailed, and
of course make but a feeble and How progress.
We can scarce form a conception, what a dlife
rent face these two circuiultaiices will ghe
a country in a short time; iu the one cafe,
buildings rife, hulbandry improves, arts and
manufactures flouriih, the country is alive,
every part of it abounding with indultry,
profits and delight; the other can produce lit tle
more than languifhment, decay, dullness and
fruitlefs anxiety, disappointment and wretched
ness.
VI. The tax I propose, •will operate in a way oj
general equality, jup ice, and due proportion. A tax
on general consumptions, can not fail to bring
the burden in due proportion on individuals, be
cauie every one will pay in proportion to his
conl'umption ; and the presumption is, that the
man who ipends moll, is belt able to spend. If
this proportion admits of exceptions, they are
generally in favor of the econdmift, the careful
penurious man, and again It the prodigal, who
diflipates his estate, and will operate as a Itrong
check upon him if he is not past all considera
tions of interest. If this is the cafe with him, the
sooner his ellate is run through the better it is,
both for himfelf and the public, for when this
happens, he must either die or work for his living,
and of courf'e do some good in the world, or at
Icaftceafe doing hurt; he will then no longer be
able to let an example of idleness, extravagance
and diUolutenefs, and draw other gay spirits in
to his pernicious pratftifes, and if his constitution
shall happen to outlall his estate, he may by tem
perance enjoy some good degree of health, and
his adversities may perhaps bring on serious re
flections, sincere repentance and amendment of
life, and if his fortune is desperate in this world,
he may at least find Itrong inducements to pre
pare for the next ; so that he is in no sense inju
red by the tax, but may by prudence derive
great benefits from it : Besides, I am of opinion,
that government ought to leave every man mas
ter of his own eftate,and permit him to judge for
himfelf how fact and in what way he will spend
it; he knows well what tax he pays on every ex
penditure, and exery part of it is fubje<ft to his
own free choice, and if his career of dissipation
can not be restrained, it is as well for him, and
much better iovthe public, that he should give part
ol his wealth to the public treasury, than walte
the whole ofit in luxuries and pleasures ; lo that I
do notfee thathe has in this cafe the least ground
of complaint of injury or opprefiion ; belides 1
think that there is a kind of jultice in framing
the public institutions in such a manner, that a
man cannot spend a dollar in luxury and dillipa
tiori, which is hurtful to the public, but he must
at the fame time pay another dollar into the pub
lic treasury, to make thereby some coinpcnfation
for the injury which the public receives from his
luxury.
And as to the niggard, the penurious man,
who does not spend his money in proportion to
his wealth, and of course does not pay his share
of tax ; it is observable that even his very penury
enures to the benefit of the community, for what
lie docs not spend he saves, and thereby enriches
himfelf. and of course adds to the wealth of the
community, for the wealth of the community is
always the aggregate of the wealth of every indi
vidual which composes it; this ought therefore
to be a favored cafe, as the community eventual
ly gains more by a /hilling saved, than it could
by a shilling consumed and loft, though the con
sumer should pay fix-pence into the public trea
sury. In fine, the tax on this principle is carved
out of the expenditures of the nation, not in
deed all expenditures indiscriminately, but is so
calculatcd as to fall lieavieft on those expendi
tures which are the most general indexes of
wealth, and are usually made by the rich who
are the belt able to bear them, and the few ex
ceptions which may be supposed to take place,
will generally operate in favor of virtue and oeco
nomy, and against vice and dissipation; and
where it falls heaviest, and becomes most bur
densome, 'tis designed, and does atftually tend,
to corretfl that very vicious taste and corrupt ha-
which is the true cause of the burden, and
tis always in the power o£*.the fufferer to
ease himfelf of, whenever he plcafes.
Point out any other mode of taxing, if you
can, that finds its way so surely to the wealth of
individuals, and apportions itfelf thereto so equi
tably, that no fubjeift can be burdened beyond
his due proportion, without having a full remedy
always in his ownpower ; yea, a sure, easy and excel
lent remedy, because a man may always avail him
felf of it, without the expence and trouble of a
law-l'uit, or being fubjedted to any body's deci
hons, opinions or caprices, but his own.
VII. This mode of taxing will make the quan
rity and time oj the tax depend on the free choice of the
man who payi it. If aman has a mind to drink a
bowl of punch or bottle of wine with his friend,
or buy a-(ilk gown for his daughter, he knows
■very well how much tax is incorporated with the
pui chafe, and adopts and pays it with cheerful,
nels and good humor ; a humor very different
from the irritated sensibility of a man, who fees
an awful collector enter upon him with his war
rant of plenary powers to deftrain his goods, or
arrelt his perfon,for a tax which perhaps he abhors
either from religious scruples, or an opinion that
he js rated beyond lus due proportion, or because
he is not at that time in condition to pay it— the
good humor of the subject is of great confluence
in any government. When people have their
own way and choice in a matter, they will bear
great burdens with little complaint; but when
matters are forced on thein contrary to their hu
mor, they will make great complaints on final!
occasions, and the public peace is often destroyed
much more by the manner of doing, than by the
thing done. (To be continued.)
Tnis Day is puilifkei, (Price r^/5)
And to be fold by BzkrV & Rogers, Hanover-Squart bv
Robert Hodci, Corner of King and Quecn-Streu. and'bv
the Ed ito r hereof;
TVVENT Y - S I X
L E J T E R S.
upon INTERESTING SUBJECTS,
respecting the REVOLUTION ot AMERICA.
Written in Holland in the Year ii,DCC,LXXX.
By his excellency JOHN ADAMS,
WHILE HE WAS SOLE MINISTER PLENIPOTENTIARY FRO^
THE UNITED STATES OP AMERICA,
FOR NECOCIATING A PEACE, AND A TREATY OP COMMERCt
WITH GRi AT-BRITAIN.
Never before publifked.
I' L A N
Of the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
(A NATIONAL PAPER.)
Published at the seat of the federal government, anitocm.
prise, as fully as pajible, the following ObjeSs, mi.
I. EARLY and authentic Accounts of the PROCEEDINGS
>f CONGRESS—its LAWS, ACTS, and RESOLUTIONS
communicated so as to form an HISTORY of the TRANSACTIONS
f the FEDER AL LEG IS L ATURE., under the N Elf CONSTITUTION.
11. Impartul Sketches of the Debates ol Concreij.
J". tSSAYS upon the great fubjefls of Government itl general,
and the Federal Legislature in particular-, also upon the tutioulini
local Rights of the american citizens, as founded upon the
Fcdeial or State Constitutions ; also upon every other Subject
which may appiar suitable for newspaper discussion.
I\. A SLR lES of PA R AGR A PHS, calculated to catch the
l IVING manners as they ri s e and to point the public
attention to Obje&s that have an important rcfercnce to dome/lie.
loLiu/, and public happinejs.
V. The Intcrefts of the United State?,is connetf td with their li
terary Inflitutions—religiousand tnoral Ohjefts— Imprcvcmentsin
Science, Aits, EDUCATION ;nd HUMANITY—their foreign
Treaties, Alliances, Connexions, See.
VI Every fpea'es of INTELLIGENCE, which mav afTeflthe
■cmmercial, agricultural, manufacturing, or politicM INTERESTS of
he AMERICAN REPUBLIC.
VII. A CHAINof DOMESTIC OCCURRENCES, coMed
hrnugh the Medium of an extenfivc Correfpondencc with the res
pective States.
VIII. A SERIES of FOREIGN ARTICLES of INTELLI
GENCE, so connected, as to fotin a general Idea of tub lie Alfsiriin
'he eajlern Hemisphere.
IX. TheSTATEofthe NATIONAL FUNDS; alfooftht IN
DI\ IDUAL GOVERNMENTS— Courses of Exchange—Price*
Current, &c-
CONDITIONS.
I.
IHE Gazette of the Uniti dSt\t f sfhall bcprir.tci with tic
tame Letter, and on the fame Paper as this publication.
11.
It shall bepubliflied every WEDNDSDAY mi
Ichvered, as maybe directed,to every Subfcriberin the city, onthofeieys.
' 111.
/;!'f" r,ce toSuifcribers (cxclufive of postage) will be THREE DOL
LARS pr. annum.
IV.
hefirjl Jf mi-annual payment to be made in three months from the up*
oearance oj theJirji number.
% SUBSCRIPTIONS
1 recetv cd in all the capital towns upon the Continert; affo at the
lty Cofhe-Houfe, and at No. g, Maiden-Lane, near the Ofwcgo-
Markct, New-York.
Ly a new Arrangement made in the Stages, Subscribers at a
distance will be duly furnifhed with papers.
post sc R i pt.——A large imprejfion of every number will be firudoj-
Jo that Subscribers may always be accommodated with complete Sets.
. To the P U B L I C.
tins important Crisis, the ideas that fill the mind, are preg
nant with Events of the greatest magnitude—to strengthen and
rrTvf T ION °f l^c States—to extend and protest their
i i ILRCE, under equal Treaties vet to be formed—toexplore
l ' le NATIONAL FUNDS—to restore and eftablilh
Tq A CREDIT ~ and ALL under the aufpicesof an untri
en oyftem of Government, will require the ENERGIES of the
patriots and Sages of our Country— Hence the propriety of tncrtajing
the Mediums of Knowlege and Information.
1 1 1 from this period, begins a new Era in her nation
a• fJ C f ' THE WORL I> IS ALL BEFORE H E RThe
Qtatcc" folly the misery and profpentv of the EMPIRES,
. KINGDOMS, which have had their day upon
e great I hcatre of 1 ime, and are now no more, suggest the most
important Mementos—These, with the rapid series of Events, in
which our own Country has been so deeply interftcd, have
thc I cnl,shtcncd of the United States, that FREE
DOM and GOVERNMENT— LIBERTY and LAWS, areinfe
parable.
T his Conviction has led to the adoption of the New Conftituti
n",' or however, various the Sentiments, refpefiing the M£-
> v ° s System, all good men are agreed in the necessity
that ex ills, of an EFFICIENT FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
PFv?> a £x,V herclore ' cfta hlifhed upon NATIONAL, INDE
PENDENT, and IMPARTIAL PRINCIPLES—which shall
a I p r emised Articles, upon a competent plan, it
prelumed, will be highly interesting. and meet with public ap
probation and patronage.
1 he Editor of this Publication is determined to leave noav(T." e
ot information unexplored:—He solicits the affiflance of Person»
lj el u [ c abilities-—which, united with his own affiduilVi
"alters himfelf will render the Gazette of the United Stat is n»-
unworthy general encouragement and is, with due rein'tt,
the public's humble servant, 7 0 UN F E N A 0.
New-York, April , 5 , I? 8 g . '
Publifhedby JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maidfn-
Lane, near the OfwegoMctrht, Nf.w-Yohk.—[3 tlol-pr-"" :