PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 4., BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 35> c/ Vol. ll.j
THE TABLET. No. CXXXVIII.
(Omitted in eur 1.ij1.)
" It is easter to know mankind in general than *-
9y one man in particular."
MY neighbor Sciomnis is thought by his ac
quaintance to have a very philosophic way
of thinking. I can never hear him converse
without k Lairing his talent*, and being enlight
ened by his information. It is remarked of him
that he has inade human nature the chief objeift
of his study. Nor do I conceive, it is paying
him too high a compliment to fay, that he can
analize all the springs and properties of the foul
•with as much (kill and propriety, as the ablest
artilt can define the machinery ot a watch. Yet
my good neighbor has always been unfortunate
in his moll intimate connections, and has fufler
*d innumerable vexations from the insincerity
»nd ficklenefs of his friends. Perhaps no man
has been more frequently deceived in his opinions
of individuals, or Smarted more leverely by list
ening Cp the impulses of credulity.
1 have had the curiofityto fearcliout thecaufe,
why a person so apparently sagacious, is often the
dupe of thoi'e, who are, in all refpecls, inferior to
himfelf. It isdifficulttoallignareafon,whyaman
"who discovers so much dilcerninewt, when speak
ing of" mankind in the aggregate, iliould in all
his perf'otisl concerns never rightly eltimate a
single character. A person of the inolt slender
abilities may easily palm himfelf upon Sciomnis
for a man of lolid underXandiug ; and the molt
barefaced knaves have gulled him out of his mo
ney, by such tricks ana evasions, as scarce re
quired ordinary precautionto guard againit. In
jhort, my learned friend is wife for every body
but himlelf. He can tell his acquaintance, witji
almost a prophetic spirit, how to eltimate charac
ters and jiieafu.-CS ; and teach them with a pecu
liar degree of certainty, .how to cfcape the vices
antLfoTlies j.hatare floatingin Jj?':>e -X ■ But he
himfelf can fleer clear of none of thrm, II»
secrets are often brought to light through the
■weakness of some of his afl'ociares ; and his hopes
are as often blasted through the knavery of o
thers.
I find the myfteryin this whole affair lobe no
thing more than this, that my neighbdr has
strong paflions as well as a ltrong understanding.
His feelings are f« irritable and vigorous that
his reason can never aflame its full sway in di
recting concerns of a personal nature. The im
t>ulfes of some paflion beguile him insensibly,
and foil that discernment which is confpicuoivs
on occasions where lie is totally dilinterefted.
His maxims and reflections bear the marks of a
comprehenlive genius ; while his life discovers a
repetition of imprudent arts, which have flowed
front a heart susceptible to the ffighteffc touch.
If he happens to be flattered he forgets at once
that flattery is an artifice used bydeltgning men,
and in the ardor of his vanity, commits himfelf
without reserve to the insinuations of the flat
terer. This looks very extraordinary, as he
frequently in the moments of reflection, expa
tiates to his friends on the danger of putting con
fidence in men of smooth insinuating manners.
But why do I descend to particulars in designat
ing; the chararter of Sciomnis. It is fuflicient
to fay, that although his knowledge of human
nature is very acute and extensive, yet he is so
much the Have of whatever passion is uppermost,
that he is betrayed into athonfand indiscretions,
and exposed to innumerable difappoiutinents.
He understands mankind in the aggregate ;
while the application of his knowledge to par
ticular cases is'erroneous and unfortunate.
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA. No. XVII
Scs mains, autour du tronc, avee ronfufion,
Scn>»icitt la jaloulie, tt !a division.
AT preient we return to the narration of Da
vila. The Prince de Condi's quality of
Prince of the blood, anil the want of plausible
pretexts, did not permit the Guises, so easily to
dismiss him from court. They tonnd, however,
a favorable occasion to fend him oft, for a
till the new Ministry (hould be well eftabliflied,
by nominating him to the King
of Spain, to ratify the peace and alliance con
tracted a little before the death of Henry lid.
He quitted the court npon this embally, and left
the nej'l open for tlv- perfection ot projects,
(CONTI MU ED.)
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST, U, J 7<K>
which were as yet only in /ketches. The Queen
mother and the Guises proceeded in the fame
manner with all whom they feared : Strongly
determined to confuinmaie iheir designs, they
judged that they could not fucccedj hut by ar
ranging all the llrong places, as well as the
troops, the finances, and all the resources of the
state, under their own disposition ; so that the
inoft important affairs ihould pass through no
hands but their own, and tbafVr f their crea
tures. Neverthtleft, to fliow ih:i y -iey consulted
their interest less than the pnbllc good and their
own glory, they did not elevate to dignities, peo
pie without merit, and drawn fVom the dust,
for fear they should be thought to make crea
tures for themselves at any rate : out they con
ferred favors only on persons, v.-bo added ac
knowledged merit to confpicuotis bitih, and
above all, eflimable in the eyes ol the people for
integrity. This condufthad a doyble advantage,
the fir ft, that the people conimighly applauded
their choice, and their opponent! had no pre
tence to condemn it : the second, that confiding '
in persons of honor and fidelity, they were not
exposed to be deceived, nor to fui'pect their at
tachment, as it often happens to those who com
mit the execution of their designs to people of
bale extraction, or dishonored by their manners,
in this view, they restored to office. Francis Oli
vier,formerly chancellor of the kiijgdom, a per
(onage of known integi ity and inflexible firmnefs,
n the exercise of his employment. The vigor
.vith which he avowed and fuppoyted his fenii
nents, had caused his difmilhon from couvi, from
he beginning of the reign of Henry lid. and the
nitigations of the Conflable had not a little con
ributed to his disgrace. They recalled also to
ouncU, and near the peifon of the King, the
ardinal de Tonrnon, who, in the time of r ran
is 111. grand father of the reiguing Prince,had
he principal condu<st of affairs. By these nich
'ures they flattered the multitude, and fulfilled
lie f*«ie dons of the public, • hout negledt-
ing their own interests
The «robity of the Cardinal and of the Chan
cellor, had rendered them dear to the people,
who knew how often they had declared them
selves agalnft the multiplication of imports,with
which they were oppreiled. Moreover, disgrac
ed by the intrigues of the Conflable, and recall
ed With honftr by the Guises, they must, both
from resentment and gratitude, support with
their cbunfels, and all their influence, the pro
je<fts ot aggrandizement, formed by the latter.
Many others had been gained by similar artifices :
but the fame management was not used with the
house of Bourbon, nor with the family of the
Conltable. On the contrary, the Princes ofLor
rain, drawn away by th« desire of annihilating
the credit of their ancient rival, and of abasing
the royal family, seized with ardor, every occasi
on of diminishing the authority and increasing
thelolles of their enemies.
(To it cotlintiid.)
From the AMERICAN MERCURY.
Publilhed at Hartford, by Mr. E. Babcock.
FEW writingsof theprefcnt daydeferve more
attention than a publication in the Gazette
of tlie United States, entitled, " Discourses on
Davila." The writer I know not, but whoever he
is, he is deeply versed in a knowledge of the hu
man heart and the science of governing. Fully
acquainted with the liittory of nations, he has
developed the springs of movement in political
machines. Unlike ibme noisy demagogues, who
pretend that jealousy is eflential to freedom, and
that the half formed opinions %nd local prejudi
ces of every constituent in the woods, mnft be
consulted by representatives in all their proceed
ings the writer maintains that men are all under
the influence of certain principles,which will war
with each other & produce difcord,unlefs they are
counteracted by a proper balance of powers in go
vernment and by a vigorous executive. Some
men love to bawl about freedom, even in the
Itreets and on the housetop ; but they are utually
the most fond of power who make the greatelt
outcry about tyranny. Fame, intereft,ambition,
these are the springs that must be touched by go
vernment ; and however we may,declaim againtt
titles, titles of office have an excellent effedt up
on trovernors. and governed. The belt inform
ed itiL>n on earth, as a people, are governed more
by imaginaiionthan by renfon.
553
PHILOSOPHICAL REFLECTIONS
ON THE I AT E
REVOLUTION IN FRANCE,
and th r conduct or
THE DISSENTERS IN INGLJND-,
IN A LETTER TO
77/£ AW. VR. FRUSTLE
BY J, COURT ENAY, «8. "• r -
QUO, QUO SCELISTI SVItU ?- H«*
London, printed i?9<3.
SIR
T AM not in the lead surprised that fomeof the mod enlighten
-1 ed men of the present age, equally diftmguifticd by genius,
faience, and taste, are fe. loufly alarmed by the dangerous and ra
pid prugrefs of democracy in France. We had indeed little to
fear, whilst they enjoyed that fcrenc and tranquil state ot govern.
m:nt, uniformly refu'ltftg from the unlimited power or a mon
arch, and the feudal privileges of a numerous, pohlhcd, and gat
lint noblesse. Whilst the various orders bf a pious, ncn, and
splendid hierarchy aixiouflv watched over the temporal and eter
nal concerns ot a docile obfequiouj laitv, preaching up th» catho
lic apostolic doctrine of padive obedience and non-reMkapce-t.i
ternal peace, fubordina'tion, and fubmtffion, were the charatter
iftics of that gay, volatile, and ingenious people. But now, hoY
refco rt/trens, thev no longer acknowledge "The right divine of
i kings to govern wrong and instead of bending their necks to
the vice-gerent of heaven, prefumpiuoufly look into thefaered .rk,
question the condufl of the Lord's anointed, and on abftrait metaw
phyfxciil principle* (unhappily reduced into practice) ali.it the
unalienable right of man to fieedom : The fatal conlequenees are
obvious ; as it is a political tiuth, confirmed by the experience of
ages, that the tranquility and happiness of a well regulated com.
munitv can only be maintained by implicit obedience and uncon
ditional fubmifiion. Tl.e vilions of chimeric*! Ipeculation mult
disappear before the light ofhiflory, and truth and reason again
rcfume iheirrmpfre over the human mind. I lay then, it the
Athenians had quietly and ludicioufly submitted to the domin .11
of the thirty tyrants, Cri.ias, and his council of tuflccr*, would
not have been compelled t., Ilain their hands in the blood of their
fellow ctizens. Socrates might have fayed himfelf and his coun
try, if he had exerted hi* al. lities, like D'. H. by fupportmg the
civil and ecclesiastical « ftabliftiment ol Athens, instead of proudly
and obftinaielv difplaving that fafliousand heretodox Ipint wh.ctt
has always distinguished you. " lus - anii hi» b *"d of Roman
conspirators, had laluted lulius Crfar, king, despotism and feli
city would have been ditfufed ever the world, and an fcnglilh
prelate* would not have d.fgraced himfelf, and his holy funflion,
by pronouncing an eulogium on affaflination, and rccornmendmg
the dangerous and daring tenets of a heathcuifo ballad to our in.
Frnioiv* vouth, in the insidious and captivating language ot c a il
eal eloquence.— Bur let mc, m thcwoic *of J- 1 Bacon. bryi'
this topic home to men's hufirtefs and bosoms. It Mt. Hampden
had meekly acquicfced in Charles* claim to Ihip-mor.ey, the nation
would have been prefeived from the horrors of a civil war ; '< tax
ation, no tyranny," would have become our political ctecd ; A
merica might dill have flourifhed under our auspices ; the ""con
taminated loy*!tv ot tory 11 m won./ have been our own; we thouul
not have incurred the wrath of Heaven for (liedding the loyal
martyr's blood ; we (Wild not have been punished tor that flagi
tious *ft by the revolution ! Nor have hatl a Trince of the Houje
of Brunfwick ttifk/tr for ourjins ! We might still have enjoy, da
Popish liturgy, a Calviniftical Creed, and an Arminun clergy,
with all the fuperadded blcffings of an arbitrary monarchy
The populous and flourifhing Vingdom ot Dahomey on the gold
coafl of Africa, is another finking example of the invaluable be
nefits of absolute power. The king isthere a king indeeo, being
the absolute matter of the lives and fortun.s o his fubjefU !
" They are," we arc told, " a happy people, and have a great
contempt for the fubjefts of the neighboring republics." A funi
lai sentiment is thus beautifully expressed by a 'j or y P oct ; 1
»' St II toourfelves in every place confign'd,
« Ourownfelicy we make or find ;
" The lifted ax, the agonizing wheel,
" Luke's iron crawn, and Damien's bed offteet,
** To men expos'd to pow:r, tho' often Known,
" Leave reason, faith, and conscience all our own."
THE Travilllß.
I (latter mrfelf, that I have already proved to your fatisfaftion
by examples taken both from ancient and modern history, and,
from recent facts—elucidated by moral reasoning, that the vicious
and opprclfive conduct of our rulers can only be efieftually'checked
and countera&ed by patience, humility, and long flittering■ 5 and
that all our political evils solely originate from tumult, inrurrca
tion and rebellion. Let us learn a lesson ol wisdom from the un
tutored savages ot Dahomey ; they preserve their lives and pro
perty from royal rapacity and violence, by a chearful refignatioA
of both to the nod of their sovereign. A reverend divine [Dean
Swift.] eameftly recommends the famefyftem of quieufm to the
fjir sex, as an rff. ttual prefe. vative again ft any pollible violation
of their chafiity. (To be continued.)
* Dr. Lowtk. b!%im vertndum erat ne qurs ityrannidem Pifijlrs
tidarum Athenrs inflaur&re auderet, übi tn omt.ibns lonyhiis, et aque
ab infima plebc in compws, quoHdie cant:tareJu> iliud La/lrjtrati
nefio cuius, fed ingeniofi arte valde bvni civis _
" Quod ft pofl idus Was martias e Tyrttnno&oris qu:fp:am tale ah
quod carmen b'ehi tradidrfjet % in que Svhnram, et fort circuios, et in
ora vulgi intulijfet, adum profeffo fuijfet de partilus deque dominating
Cajaruv): plus mchercule va/uiflfl unum Harmodn quam L:cerov,j
P/iitlrppica opines." Praia'tones Hebraica y p. 15.
This celebratedfong has been thusUanfiatcdbyUr. Cumberland
He is not dead % ovr bejl belov'd
Harmodius is not loft,
3>rt with Troy's conquerors remot d
To feme more happy coafl.
!l.'
Bind then the myrtle's mxflic bough) £
And tuave your swords around,
for Co they fir nek the tyrant low,
And fa their fcvoids were bound.
HI.
Perpetual objefls of our love
The patriot pair shall be,
Who in Minerva's facredgrovt
Struck t and set Athens free.
[W HOLE No. T f 9-3LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES :
AT THI SECOND SESSION.
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Monday the fouith
o January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT to continue in force for a limited time,
an A6i, intituled " An A<ft for the temporary
establishment of the Poft-Office."
T) Eit mailed iy the Senate and Houjt of Reprefentdtires of the Uni
ted Statu of America in Cong,if, ajfenbled, That the pallid
n l fcfflon of Congress, intituled "An »a for the temporary
cftabliihrnent of the Poft-Office," be, and the fame'hercby isconti
nued in force until the end of the next feflion of Congress and no
longer.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prcfident of the United States.
and President of the Senate.
Approved, August the fourth, 1700.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejident ojthe United States.
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
AN ACT for the relief of John Stewart and
John Davidson.
T) E it enacted by the Senate and Houfc of Reprefevtatives of the United
AJ States of America in Congress ajfembled y That so much of the du
ties accruing on eighteen hundred bulhels of fait imported in the
/hip Mercury, into the port of Annapolis, in the state of Mary
land, sometime in the month of April last on account of Messieurs
John Stewart and John Davidfon, as relates to thirteen hundred
and twenty-five buihels thereof, which were casually destroyed by
a flood on the night of the fame day on which thej said fait was
landed and stored, shall be, and the fame are hereby remitted.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vicc-Prcfidcnt oj the United States.
and President of the Senate.
Approved, August the fourth, 1700.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejident of the United States.
(True CopyJ
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State
RESOLVED, by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States oj America in Congress assembled, That the ex pence
of procuring seals for the supreme, circuit, and district Courts of
ihe United Srates, shall be defrayed out of the monpy appropria
ted b> an ast of the present feflion, for defraying the contingent
charges of government.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG
Speaker ofthe House oj Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President ofthe United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, August th e second, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejident ojthe United States.
(Tiue copy.J
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State,
RESOLVED, by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States 0/ America in Congress ajfembled, That the clerks
in the office of the commiflioiier ot army accounts, are intitled
to receive for their services, a sum not exceeding five hundred dol
lars, to be paid in the fame manner and at the fame rateas the sala
ry allowed to the clerks in the department of treasury : And that
the auditor and comptroller be authorized to adjust the accounts
of the clerks in the (aid offi e, upon the fame principles as those of
the Treasury department, agreeably to the appropriation by law.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Refirefentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States.
and President of the Senate.
Approved August the second, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President (f the United States.
(True Copy.)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State-
CHANCE OF THE SPANISH MINISTRY
Extract of a letter from a house in Cadiz to a merchant
J J J
in Philadelphia, dated June IJ, 1790.
I have the pleasure to inform you of a verj fa
vorable change taken place in the miniftiy at our
court, which is as follows :
His Excellency the Count de Florida Blanca,
firft Secretary of State.
His excellency Don Antonio Porlier, Minister
of grants, and justice for the home and Ameri
can department.
His Excellency the Count del Canipode Alanxe,
Minister of war, for the home and American de
partment.
His Excellency Don Antonio Valdes, Minister
of Marine, and in the absence or sickness of
Count Florida Blanca, to a<ft as Secretary of State.
His Excellency Don Pedro Lapez de Lerena,
Minister of the finances of the home and Ameri
can department.
His Excellency Don Geronimo Cavallero, Pre
sident ot the council of war (a new department)
with the fame honors and emoluments as while
one of the Secretaries of State.
His Exccllency Don Diego de Gardoqui, Don
Pedro de Aparicio, and Count de Cafa Valencia,
Directors General of the re ve-. Hies and finances
of the American department, still retaining their
former appointments, with the honors and an
tiquity of ihc Pioyal and Supreme Council of the
Indies.
PUBLISHED
¥ROM WOODFALL'S REGISTER.
PROCLAMATION.
By the KING of FRENCHMEN.
" NEVER have circumstances so urgent requi
red all Frenchmen to re-unite in one mind, to ral
ly themlelves with courage in support of the law,
and to favor with all their might the eftabliih
ment of the Conllitution. We have negle<fted
nothing in order to inspire every citizen with
thele sentiments. We have ourselves given them
an example of our entire and unequivocal confi
dence in the reprerentativesof the nation, and of
our constant difpolition to promote every measure
that might contribute to the happiness of our fub
jedcs, and the prosperity of France. '
" Can it then be polfible that the enemies of
the public welfare ihould still endeavour to inter
[ rupt the important labors which occupy the Na
tional Aflembly, in concert with us, to infurethe
rights of the people, and prepare for their hap
pinefs ! That they endeavor to stir up the public
mind either by vain terrors and falfe interpreta
ons of the decrees of the National Aflembly ac
cepted or famfiioned by us ; or try to raise doubts
as to our intentions, asill-founded as they are in
jurious ; and cloaking their private paflions or
interests under the sacred name of religion ?
" An oppoOtion so culpable would sensibly af
fect us at the fame time that it would excite our
utmost indignation. The continual objecfl of
our cares is to prevent and repress all of such a
nature. We have also judged it worthy of our
paternal solicitude, to prohibit even the signs that
might manifeft divisions and parties.
" Moved by thele considerations, and inform
ed that in different parts of the kingdom, indivi
dualshave taken the liberty to wear cockades dif
ferent from the National one, which we ourfelve*
wear ; and reflecting on the inconveniences that
may result from this diverflty, we have thonghc
fit to prohibit them.
" In confeqoence, we forbid all our faithful
fubjefts throughout the whole extent of our
realm to wear any other than the National Cock
ade.
We exhort all good citizens to abstain in
their speeches, as well as ill their writings, from
every reproach or diftin&ion capable of exaspe
rating people's minds ; of fomenting divilions,
and of serving even as a pretext for any culpable
excess." (Signed)
LOUIS.
And underneath De St. PRIEST."
Paris, May 28, 1790.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
June i.
On the day on which M de Voifins fell a fa
crifice to the unjust vengeance of the people of Va
lence, three other officers were thrown into pri
son and thereby saved from the popular fury.
*1 lie committee of reports proposed in the fitting
of yesterday morning to decree their liberation ;
butit is apower belonging to the executive pow
er,to which the NationalAflembly has referred it.
The Assembly then went into the difcuflion of
the projedl of the Ecclesiastical Committee for
the organization of the Clergy. The Archbifliop
of Aix made a very elegant speech proving the
rights of the clergy were too sacred to bedeftroy
ed.
After some other speakers had delivered their
fentinients on theoccafion, the discussion on the
general question was closed, and the fitting ended
by reading an Address from the Municipality of
Montauban, accompanied by a proclamation
which on the 26th of last month had been stuck
up in that town, to appease the fears of the peo
ple on the approach de /' armee bordelaife.
LONDON, JUNE 3.
The Court of Portugal have jull made public
a decree to regulate the future succession to the
kingdom. By this decree the succession will, on
failure of maleilllie, not only open the succession
to the eldeftfemale but to the second and third
daughters ; and whoever they fliall marry will en
joy the Crown in their right.
Ex trail of a letter fiotn Stockholm, April 20.
" The court martial which has been so long
fitting on the officers who refufed to serve in
Finland, in the campaign of 1788, have at lafl
made public their sentence, which, if not foften
ed by the King, will exhibit a scene of blood
that will astonish aU Europe. General d'Armfeldt
Colonels Haflefco, and Baron d'Otter, and lieu
tenant Colonel KliHgfpot, are condemned to be
beheaded, and to lose their honors and estates.
ColonelsMontgamerie andLejonftedt are condemn
ed to be shot. Several subalterns are also doom
ed death : and a great many brave officers, now
111 confinement, are required to ask pardon of
the King for their offences ; a punifhmentalmofl
as severe as death itfelf, to men who atfed in
discharge of what they thought their duty. We
still entertain some hopes that it will be foftened
by his Majesty."
When the inquest were going their rounds in
a city parish, to weigh the bread of the bakers
and try the scales, measures, &c. of dealers a
baker got notice of their approach ; and in a
554
sudden emergency, he tkruft a number of l,,ir
crowns into fame loaves that he knew to be n
of weight. This was critically observed bv*'
paflenger, who determined to punish him. '1/
went into the fliop with the Inquest, itood j, 6
whilfl the loaves were weighed, and b ou? h[
them in their presence. The melancholy bake
saw his half crowns depart without darine to
Hop them, and for the rirft time in his lift did
not cheat his cultomer. 1
June 7.
Notwithstanding all the reports of Lord
Heathfield's letting out to take the command of
the garrison of Gibraltar with the circumstance
of his arriving at Dover, &c. See. an evening
paper fays, we have refpecfiable authority for fa*,
ing, his Lordlhip has not quitted his house in
London, nor, perhaps, will he, considering his
advanced period of" life and infirmities, refunu
that station which he filled with so much honor
to himfelf, and glory to the nation.
Under similar circuniftances, a veteran officer
in Louis XlVtli'* time, being alked by the Kins,
" Whether he felt himfelf well enough to re
sume his former military station ?" No, Sire
replied the veteran, my former services are fuf!
ficiently recorded by your Majesty's giving me
the choice of again serving you ; but I would
choose to dedicate the close of a long life to
making up the account between God and my
conscience."
By accounts from Stockholm, dated the 18th
ult. we learn, that on the nth, the Swedilh fleet
made an attack on the port of Revel. They en
tered the Bay, and a brisk cannonade took place.
They silenced the forts which defend the en
trance of the harbor, and set fire to the town,
which was soon in very general conflagration.
They took and burnt seventeen /hips, of which
fix were of the line, and the frigates and fmall
erfhips, and destroyed a considerable quantity of
stores. In this bold and fuccefsful attempt,
they loft two fliips of the line, and fuffered a
great slaughter. We must wait for the arrival
of the mail for the particulars of this important
affair ; but from good authority we are inform
ed, that the above is the futyftance.
Intelligence is said to be received from Vien
na, informing, that " Marftial Loudohn had made
a sudden movement with his troops, and advan
ced within two miles of the frontiers of Prnffiafo
unexpetfledly, that the Pruflian troops made a
precipitate retreat, supposing the Auftriaiis in
tended topoffefs theinlelves of Silesia.
Twenty fail of the line is the force preparing
by the Dutch,in confequeoce nf T.prd /VmHwil'i
reqinfition of the succours (tipulated by tktht*
treaty. Admiral Van Kinfbergen has tbe con
duct of this naval equipment, which will here
viewed by the Prince of Orange previous to its
putting to sea.
His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales did
not appear at St. James's, with his new EPAU.
LE n J£, till the evening, it being collar day.—
This piece of jewellery is the moil superb ever
seen at Conrt, and estimated in value at 22,0001.
the form of it is a long shaped oval, the outer row
—a circle of very large costly brilliants—the in.
ner part, filled with a mosaic of diamonds—the
centre of each part of the mosaic filled with afin»
brilliant. The brilliant which formed the but
ton is valued at 4000 guineas—the whole contain
ed near 1000 brilliants of the firft water.
DR. FRANKLIN.
The amiable Dubourg, who gave the writer of
this,the account of Dr. Franklin's death, and who
was the firft Frenchman that openly espoused the
cause of America, in his Ouvrcs de Franklin, in
two volumes, hasinfcribed under theheadofthe
Philosopher, the following inscription,
" II a ravi de feu des Cieux,
11 fait fleurir Irs arts en des climnts fauvages;
" L'Americjue le pl«ce a la tele des sages ;
11 La Grece Pauroit met au nombrc des fes Dicux."
It must now be thewifh of every fcientificpei
fon, to poflefs an accurate life of this great cha
racter ; but where is the historian, who can d#'
lineate the man who controuled the tremendous
fire of the Heavens, and spread the flame of free"
dom over the earth >
Dr. Franklin died imnienfely rich, and bts left
the bulk of his fort une to his daughter, Mri.Btche,
with a large legacy to her husband.
WESTMINSTER 'ABBEY.
The Musical Feast closed on Thursday with a
repetition of the Mefliah, which was performed
before a very numerous audience, not left than
2600. His Majesty and three of the Princefl'es
were present. The Queen was absent, and, it
was said, through indifpofitiori.
Hints to Americans who own lands or other realefiatc
in England.
Persons born in the United States of America
fincetheir independence, are incapable of hold,
ing lands in Great-Britain, as they are not natur
al born fubje<fls of the kingdom. The treaty of
peace secures the present holders, but it does not
iecure their heirs, confequenrly those eft3tes will
be loft as soon as the present proprietors die.—
Does not prudence req -i.e that such estates he
immediately fold ? ' A Countryman.
iCONGRESS.
HOUSE Of REPRESENTATIVES
SATURDAY, AUGUST 7.
THE bill for appointing a surveyor genera] was read a second
lime, and on the question for engrossing was rejciled.
The speaker laid before the house a letter and report from the
Secretary of the Treasury, accompanied with statements of additi
onal sums necessary to be provided for the support of government
by farther appropriations. Also informing the house that a sur
plus to the amount of one million of dollars arising from the reve
nues of the pre feat year, beyond the appropriations made by law
•will remain in the Treasury, and suggesting the propriety of ap
plying the fame towards buying up the public debt in the markel.
The house went into committee on the said letter and report,
and came to the following resolutions thereon :
Rcfolved, That the sum of fifty thousand dollars out of the mo
nies anting from the duties on imports and tonnage be reserved
and appropriated for fatisfying demands against the United States,
not otherwise (pecially provided for ; and that an ast for that pur
pole ought to be palled the present feflion.
Resolved, That out of the monies reserved during the present
fellion for the support of government from the duties' on imports
and tonnage, a sum not exceeding thirty eight thousand eight
hundred and ninety two dollars 75cenube appropriated for the
payment of the debts contrasted by Abraham Skinner, late com
miliary of prisoners, for the subsistence of the officers of the late
army while in captivity.
Relolved, That provision bylaw fliould be immediately made
for the application of the furpltis sum which lhall remain in the
Treasury after all the appropriations made during the present fefli
on (hall be fatislird, in conformity to the tenor of the report of the
Secretary of the Treafurv.
The committee then rose, and Mr. Fitrfimons, Mr. Vining, Mr.
Madison, Mr. Ames, and Mr. Benfon were appointed a commit
tee to prepare and bring in a hill for the purpose.
A report was received from the Secretary of the Treasury, rela
tive to loft certificates ; which was read and laid on the table.
A meifage was received from the Senate, that they had consider
ed the resolution of the house on the petition of Mr. Mentges, and
had non-concurred the fame. Also, that they bad confideied the
bill for the appointment of two additional commiflioners for fet
tling the accounts between the United States and the individual
Slates, and non-concurred the fame.
Also, that the Senate had considered the bill making provifton
tor the disabled foldiersand seamen lately in the service of the
United St ates; and had agreed to the fame.
Another meflage wasrcct»ed fiom tiefe. ateth.t they had passed
tht bill refpefting the completing the Light-HoufeonPortlandhead.
Also, that they had agreed to the bill refpefting the Virginia ces
sion, with some amendments. Also, that the Senate agreed to the
Icfolutiou for an adjournment onTuefday next.
The house then proceeded to the consideration of the amend
ments proposed by the Senate to the bill refpefting the Virginia
ceflion, and agreed to the fame.
The house went into committee on the bill for the relief of A
dam Caldwell, and having made some amendments thereto, rose,
«ual ordered the bill to be engrofled for a third reading.
MONDAY, Auf>uft 9 .
A bill for the relief of Adam Caldwell was read the third time
and palled.
Mr. Fitzfimons from the committe appointed for that purpose,
reported a bill making certain appropriations ; and also a bill for
icducing the debt of the United Stnte*. The said bills were read
a fir ft and second time and committed.
The House went into committcc on thtfc bills, separately ; —
they were both amended and parted.
The House proceeded to the confederation of the amendments
proposed by the Senate to the bill for the relief ot disabled foldi
crs and seamen ; —and agreed to the fame.
A mcfTage was received from the Senate, that they had patted
the bill tor fatistying the claims ot L dy Stirling, with amend
ments —the said amendments being taken into consideration were
agreed to.
A meffjge was received from the Senate that they had pasTed the
bill giving the alTent of Congress to certain a&s of the S;ate of
Georgia, Maryland, and Rhode-Island ; —with amendments.
Also, that they had pasTed a bill to alter the times for holding the
Circuit court in the Slates of South-Carolina and Georgia.
Mr. Gilman from the committee of inrolment, reported that
they had this day preferred three a£ls to the President of the Uni
ted States, for his approbation.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) from the committee, to whom was referred
the accounts of the treasurer of the United States, tor the Jaft two
quarters, made a report on the fame ; —which was read and laid
on the table.
The amendments of the Senate to the bill for giving the a (Tent of
Congress to rertain acts of Georgia, Maryland, and Khode-Ifland,
were taken into consideration, and agreed to.
The memoiial and representation of the Legislature of MalTachu
fetts,on the fubje& of the fifticries,was referred to the Secretary of
State.
Mr. Oilman, Mr. White, and Mr. Smith of [S. C ] were ap
pointed a committee, to join a committet of the Senate to notify
the Prefidcnt, of the proposed recess of Congress.
A icport of the Secretary of the Treasury, on the memorial of
Gen. Hazen, was received, and laid on the table.
The house refolvcd that all surveys of lands in the United States
made under the direction of the late Geographer General, agreea
ble to contrasts for such parts ot said lands made with the late
board of Treasury be returned to, and prcfented by the Secretary
•f the Treasury so as to compleat the said contrails : And that the
said Secretary is hereby authorised to direst the making and com
pleating any other fuivrys that remain to be made, so as to com
ply on the part of the United States, with the fcveral contracts a
iorcfrid, i" ronformity to the terms thereof.
• TUESDAY, AUGUST 10
A me Huge was received from The Prefidcnt of the United States,
to notify the house that tile following Ads had received his a (Tent,
An Ast making further provision for payment ot the public debt
of the United States.
An Ast to enable the officers and soldiers of the Virginia line
on Continental eftablilhmcnt, to obtain titles to certain lands
(herein defcrib.d.
An Ast to authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to take mca
fures for finiftiing the Light-House on Portland Head, in the pro
vince of Maine.
Mr. Gilmanof the joint committee, reported the following en
rolled bills.
An ast lor the relief of d'.fabled soldiers and seamen lately in
Che few ice of the United States, and of certain other persons.
An Ast declaring the assent of Congrcls to certain Acts of the
States of Maryland, Georgia and Khode-llland and Providence
Plantation*.
An A& for the relief of the persons (herein mentioned or de
lcnbcd.
An Ast to alter the times for holding the Courts of the
United Slates m the diftrifts of South Carolina and Georgia, and
providing that the Diftrift Court of Pcmifylvania, rtiali in future
be held at the city of Philadelphia onty.
A mefljge was received from the Senate to inform the House
that they have passed a resolution to adjourn itie 12 th inft. and re
qurft the concurrence of the House.
1 his Resolution was agreed to.
Adjourned till to-morrow, 10 o'clock, A. M.
NEW-YORK, AUGUST u.
APPOINTMENTS. By Authority
THE President of thAlnited States, by and with the adviceand
consent of the Senate has been pleafe4 «o nominate and appoint
the following officers, viz.
- Commissionirs o» Loans
>few-H«mp(hire, Nathaniel Gtfaan.
Maflichufetts, Nathaniel AppttUtl. -
Rhode-lfland, Jabez Bowcn•
ConneSicut. William Inlay.
New-York, John Cochran.
New-Jersey, James Ewing.
Pennsylvania, Thomas Small.
Delaware, James Tihon. „
Maryland, Thomas Ha-nmoi. . ,
Virginia, John Hopkins.
North-Carolina, Wtlfiam Si inner.
South-Carolina, John Ncujville.
Georgia, Richard Wylley.
William Irvine, John Taylor G,/max,»nd John Kctn, Commission
ers for fettling the accounts between the United States and indi
vidual States.
Daniel Benezet,fen. Collector for the port of Great Harbor, in
the state of New-Jersey.
In the bill now before the Senate, making provision for the re
dudion of the public debt, it is proposed that one million of dol
lars now in the Treasury of the United States, be applied to pur
chasing the public debt in the market, while the debt is under
par. Also that the President of the United States be authorized
to borrow Two Millions of dollars, to be applied to the fame pur
pose : The business to be under the direftron of Five Commillion
er«, viz. The President of the Senate, The Chief Justice, The Se
cretary of State, The Secretary of the Treasury, and the Attorney
General ; who, or any three of whom, under the direction of the
Picfident, arc to cause the purchases to be made.
The propofuion for applying the surplus of one million to pur
chasing up the public debt at the market price, while that price
is at a discount, moll meet the apptobition of every friend to the
United Slates : And the pairiolic, independent policy which sug
gested the meafure,is one among many other evidences of that ever
wakeful vigilance which marks the operations of thcTieafury de
partment.
FROM CORRESPONDENTS.
CONGRESS is accused of delaying th£ public business. Fear
generates and hatred. Thotc who feared that it would not
be done at all, or done in a manner that would displease them
more than being neglected intirely, have futfered great anxiety.
The great objects of the feflion have called up the pillions of dif
ferent classes of citizen*. Nothing could be more opposite than
their views, and vet all seem to have agreed in giving vent to their
paflions by accusing Congress. It is time, now the great business
is finifhcd, to re-examine the charge.
All public bodies, whose duty it is to deliberate, will move
flow, and every nation has more to-sear from portion and enthu
fufrn hurrying their representatives into errors, than from over
caution which will waste only time. Alk of a party-man why
has Congress been so long occupied in funding the debt. Perhaps
he will fay, because the State debts were crowded in. Aik ano
ther, he will fay, because opposition was made to afluming the
State debts. A moderate man of no party will answer, that busi
ness was delayed, because the members could not agree how it
(hould be done. If the advocates for the State debts would have
joined the opponents of the measure, they niight have finiftied the
whole in a week. The like would have happened if all the mem
bers had agreed to the aflumption. But did the members use
more argument for and against the measure, and did they perse
vere in the support ot their refpeftive opinions with more zeal
and industry than the different classes of the citizens defircd, and
had a just right to require of them ? The public has been divi
ded as well and perhaps as much as the members. Each man
feemsto have become angry because others who opposed his opi
nions would not yield, and not because his per le
vered in trying to persuade him to do it. He would have been
more difplcafed had he found no support, or a faint one given in
Congress to the great meafurcs which have called up all his patri
otism. The feflion has not been a period of leisure. As the great
fubjetls of contention are now fettled, and a foundation is laid for
union, energy,and public credit, there will be less reason lor de
lay in future. We are just beginning to a£l as a nation. Business
will soon wear itfelf a channel, and flow as fact as it ought.
The business of Congress has been in the highest degree difficult.
The entire business of a diftrefling war has been to fettle. A great
debt, existing in various intricate forms, has been new modified,
and the terms of a new loan agreed upon. Extensive funds have
been provided. The public anxiety has proved the difficulty and
importance of this part of their labor. Provision has been made
for fettling the accounts between the United States and the indi
vidual States. It was forefeen that this would prove an embar
rassing fubjeft, and those who know how much jealousy was en
tertained on this account, and how many well-informed persons
have despaired of its being done at all, will wonder that it has
been accomplished. Tho Congrcfs is charged with foftering fac
tion ; the progress and success of this great operation is evidence
that the spirit of conciliation is note, absolutely banilhcd from the
Federal Hall. The controversies about the State debts, the Qua
ker Memorial, and the feat of government have been carried on
with acrimony. However, it is in the highest degree pleasing to
fee the appearance of harmony, which seems to have returned at
the end of the lcflion. Many apprehended that it would never
return. Perhaps business never proceeded in Congress more
smoothly than it has of late. Altho the very difficult affairs of
this feflion, the moil important in the civil hiftor) of the Union,
have not been tranfa£led in the time, nor in the manner many ear
neilly dcfired, it is to be hoped that the public apprehensions and
jealousies will subside, and that all good men will cultivate that
national spirit which diffufed such a lustre over the firft feflion.
This country wants nothing but a wife and energetic administra
tion of its government, to become the happiest in the world. But
the happiness wc have just cause to expect as a people, will be
hastened in its progress and encreafed in degree by chenlhing that
love for the Union, and that mutual good will which made us a
nation. Those who are industrious to £ow discord ought to be
discountenanced.
A free people will often complain, because it is a part of the
government, and because a free people will soon become enlight
ened, and fee the errors ofmeafurcs. But tl)ofe ate deceived who
suppose that these complaints discover a dislike to government.
If our citizens had not expected much from Congrels, and felt a
sincere regard for the Union, they would not have (hewn such
impatience under the delay of their wilhes. We cease to be a
people if we relax the bandsof union.
Forty eight A£b have been palfrd the present feflion.
PRICE CURRENt. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
Fin Aj. StTTHMSMTs 13/ Indjnts if.
555
Extrat: of a letter fro a gt;;ticma>i in CharUjiofy
(S. C.) to the Editor, July 24, I 79°-
" I was much pleased on the whole with the
observations 011 the Englifli letter in your paper ;
but I cannot fay the pleasure was heightened by
the reflection thrown out against the foiitheru
States. Tis true it would appear from the con
duct of their representatives, [which, I think
will not tend much to increal'e their popularity]
that South Carolina and Georgia are violently
opposed to reltritftions on foreign navigation ;
but I believe, from the little inform., ion I have
been able to gain, that the contrary is the cafe,
particularly in this state, except amongst a few
British merchants, who, though they enjoy all
the privileges of American citizens, make it a
point to injure our trade as much as polfible.—
Every peri'on must know it is the interest of the
inhabitants at the prcfent moment to export their
produce in Britilh bottoms—.but they look for
ward—they are not so iniferly Ihort-lighted, as
to lock up the penny to-day, which might pro
duce them a/hilling by to-morrow.
" I think a writer who wishes to make the pub
lic wiser and better by his speculations, ought
to be careful how he publishes any thing which
may tend to keep alive vulgar local prejudices.
It was the layingafide these prejudices that made
us a nation—it was the revival of these prejudic
es that brought us to the brink of political ruin
—it was the smothering of these prejudices again,
that gave us a government.—And, happy lhall
we be, if their re-animation does not bring us,
not only to the precipice of ruin, but plunge us
down, to rife no more."
The Diftrift Court of the United States for the
diftritfl of New-York, which was opened at the
Court Room in this city 011 Tuesday the third of
Augult instant. closed on the Saturday following.
A refpecflable Grand Tury attended on this occa
sion.
We are informed that a special court will be
held at the Court Room on Thursday the 19111
indant, for thedifpatch of business.
Last week the key of the Baftile, accompanied with a fine draw
ing of that famous building, was presented to the President ot the
United States, by John Rut ledge, jun. Esq. to whose care they
were committed by the illustrious patriot the Marquis ic la Fay
ette, for that purpofc. Mr. Rut ledge atrived in the Chtftcr
field Packet.
Saturday lad a commission pal Ted the great seal of the United
States,appointing The Hon. Gen. Knox, sole commiflioner lor
negociating a Treaty ot Peace with the Creek nation.
Speculation is bouodlefs in its encurfions : Hence the British
accounts contain ninety-nint ctnjeflures andfuppcjitionv for one JaS.
The following will (hew the justice of this reimrk.
//there (houla be a Spanilh war, ths $riti(h parliament will
bedifTolved, and of couriie * new one chosen : IJ there Ihould not
be a war the minister * ill suspend the difTolution : IJ Great Bri
tain Ihould be draggti into a war with Spain, it writ afford an
opportunity for great national glory and advantage : It is a ctn
jeSure that the war on the part of Spain will be defenfive : It is a
conjeQure that the armaments of Spain are defigncd to induce the
National AHembly to commence hostilities against Great-Britain :
IJ the National Aflembly Ihould remain neuter, Spain will proba.
ply have recourse to other expedients ; but i/France ihould arm,
it is conjcSured that a general war is inevitable : IJ the King of
Pruflia deserts the Belgic confederacy, they must encounter the
victorious veterans of Austria, and the probability is, that all tbo
German Princes will make their subjugation a common cause.—
In (hort there is no end to conjc&urei, probabilities, uncertain
ties, anticipations, &c. &c. After all it appears that on the xoth
of June, the date of the latest accounts from Europe, nothing dc
cifive refpefiing the Spanish war had taken place.
Lenses and Reflettori for Light-Houses, have
been found far superior to either coal, or lamps,
as they afford a brighter, and more steady light,
and are seen at a much greater distance than
those which dirctft our mariners on the American
coast.
Several of our correspondents have exprefled
their approbation, in very ltrong terms, of the
new publication called the Bloomfgrove familv.
The learned author appears to have inveiligated
the fubjedi: of education upon its true principles,
and has made it evident that with proper atten'-
tion by the parents, it is easy to induce children
to be virtuous and orderly. Perhaps no publi
cation better deserves a itrid: perusal than the
memoirs ot the Bloomfgrove family.
The " Daily Advertifcr" to be jpublilhed in Philadelphia
next month, by Htnjanin Franklin Bachc, it to be printed on a fn
lio demi, almost «s iarjje again as was firft intended. The terms
of subscribing to remain the fame, viz. five dollars pr. annum.
We hear that the Senate have, in Committee, agreed to the bill
for reducing the public debt, by a large majority,
CONSISTENCY.
THE great, the learned Dr. H
Wrote a long Etay for to (hew
Th' nonsense of Greek and Latin ;
Then in the House, both hands in's breeches,
With twisted phiz, he lards his speeches,
With scraps /ugg'd smoothly pat in.
Thus have I heard a patriot bawl,
And on the very building call,
To witness to his real, iir ;
But yet relentless doom to toil,
His fellow men in bondage vile,
With bosom cas'd with steel, fir.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK
Schooner Industry, Farring, Tobago.
Nancy, Denton, Edenton,
Nancy, Madox, Norfolk, 3 days
Sloop Aurora, Cahoon, Rhode Island, 2 days
Sally, Clarke, St. john't.
Fanny, Tillinghaft, Rhode Island, a day*
Betsey, Brooks, Philadelphia, 6.
Sally, Culver, Peteiftmrg,
Sal'yi Griffio, Si. Mania's. I^.To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
The ADDRESS of the Convention of the UNIVER
SAL CHURCH, a'fembled in Philadelphia. I 790.
S 1 R,
PERMIT us in the name of the Society whom
we represent, to concur in the numerous con
gratulations which have been offered to you since
your accefiion to the government of the United
States.
For an account of our principles we beg leave
to refer you to the pamphlet, which we have now
the honor ti> put into your hands. In this pub
lication it will appear, that the peculiar dodtrine
which we hold, is »ot less friendly to the order
and happiness of society, than it is eflential to the
perfe&ions of the Deity.
It is a Angular circumstance in the liiftory of
thisdo&rine, that it has been preached and de
fended in every age, since the firft promulgation
of the eofpel, but we represent the firft society
profefling this doiflkine, that have formed them
selves into an independent church. Posterity
will hardly fail of connecting this memorable
event, with the auspicious years of peace, liberty
and free inquiry in the United States, whichdif
tinguifhed the adrniniftration o(General Wajking
ton.
We join thus publicly with our afifecftionate
fellow-citizens in thanks to Almighty God for
the -laji of his numerous signal atftt of goodness
to our country in preserving your valuable life in
a late dangerous indisposition, and we affureyou
Sir, that duty will not prompt us n>ore than af
fe<flion to pray, that you may long continue the
support and ornament of our country, and that
you may hereafter fill a higher flation, and enjoy
the greater reward of being a King and Priett to
our God.
Signed in behalf and by order of the Convention,
To the CONVENTION of the UNIVERSAL
CHURCH, lately assembled at Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
I THANK you cordially for the congratulations
which you offer on my appointment to the of
fice I have the honor to hold in the government
of the United States.
It gives me the most sensible pleasure to find,
that,in our nation, however different are the fen
timentsof the citizens on religious dodirines,they
generally concur in one thing: For their politi
cal profeflionsand practices arealmoft universal
ly friendly to the order and happiness of ourci
•vil institutions. lam also happy in finding this
disposition particularly evinced by your Society,
It is moreover my earned desire, that all the
members of every association or community,
throughout the United States, may make such
"use of the auspicious years of peace, liberty, and
free inquiry, with which they are now favored,
as they lhall hereafter find occasion to rejoice for
having done.—With great fatisfaftion, I em
brace this opportunity to express my acknow
ledgments for theintereft my affe<flionate fellow
citizens have taken in my recovery from a late
dangerous indisposition and I allure you gentle
men, that in mentioning my obligations for the
efFufions of your benevolent wiflies on my behalf,
I feel animated with new zeal, that my conduct
may ever be worthy of yonr favorable opinion,
as well as such as shall, in every refpeil, belt
cbmport with the character of an intelligent and
accountable being. G. WASHINGTON.
FROM THE COLUMBIAS CENTIXEL
Mr. RUSSELL,
I SEND you an extract from Dixon's Voyage
round the world, performed in 1785, '86, '87
and'Bß—from which some idea may be formed
of the commercial importance of the obje<!l con
tended for by England, in the present fracas
■with Spain—and, perhaps, some inducement
held out to our countrymen, to imitate the en
terprize of the gentlemen who fitted out the Co
lumbia and Washington. As wilhingto pro
mote the interelts of commerce, I doubt not your
inferring itin, the Centinel. Your's
NOQTKA SOUND.
" THE firft vefiel fitted out for the trade on the
North-Weft Coast of America, was a brig of 60
tons, from China, commanded by Capt. Hanria.
He left the Typa in April, 1785, arrived at Noot
kain Augult following, left that place in the lat
ter end of September, and arrived at Macoa, in
December, the fame year. His cargo consisted
of yco fen-otter Ikins, beside pieces, which were
difoofed of as follows :
140 Ikins at 60 dollars each, amount to 8,400 dol.
175 do. 4; - . 7,87j
80 dn. 50 - 2,400
54 do. 1 . - 82J
5:0 do. TO - - 500
240 pieces fuld for - - 600
JOHN MURRAY,
W. EUGENE IMLAY
MERCATOR,
Total 20,600 dol. J
In the beginning of 1786, the fno\r Captain
Cook, of 300 tons, Captain Lorie, and the expe
riment, Captain Guile, of 100 tons, were fitted
out from Bombay. They arrived at Nootka in
June, and left that placefometime before August,
with 6oofkins. They traced the coaftupto Prince
William's found, without adding much to their
trade ; and arrived at Canton on the 4th of April
following. This cargo was fold altogether at
40 dollars per skin, which amounts to 24,000 dol.
The Nootka, Capt. Mears, of 200 tons, failed
from Bengal, ieparately, and thefale of his car
go at Canton, was as follows :
Jo primefeaotter-fkinsatpi dol. each,4,J Jo dol
jo do. - 70 ' 3>fo°
J2 do. - jo 2,600
j8 do. . 3j 2,030
31 half worn, 20 620
jo do. - 1 j 7jo
26 old and bad, g 130
12 large pieces, 10 120
I7finaller, 5 8j
37 sea-otter tails, 2 74
31 inferiour, . 39
48 land otter.(kins 6 288
14 very bad beaver 3 42
27martin Ikins, 14
The Imperial Eagle, Capt. Berkley, left Of
fend tlie 23d of November, 1786 ; arrived at
Nooika in the beginning of June, 1787, and left
it with a cargo of near 700 prime sea-otter Ikins,
and above 100 ofan inferior quality : They were
not fold when the Queen Charlotte j left China,
but the price put on them was 30,000 dollars.
The cargoes of the King George and
Charlotte consisted of 2552 sea-otter skins, 434
cub, and 44 fox Ikins, which weredifpofed of by
the East-India Company's supercargoes. The
reft, which consisted of 1080 beaver tails, sundry
pieces of beaver ikins and cloaks, 110 fur seal
ikins, about 150 land beaver, 60 fine cloaks, of
the earless marmot, together with a few racoon,
fox, lynx, and other skins, were left with the
Captains to be fald in the best manner which they
were able. Dollars.
The part put into the hands of the super-
cargoes was fold for
The 1080 beaver tails fold for 2 dollars
each, or
The 110 seal Ikins for J ditto
A small parcel of rubbish
The cloaks, and other furs, &c.
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY.
THE Managers as the STATE LOTTERY, present the Pnblic
with the First C'afsofthe Majfachu/etts semi-annual State Lot
terjvwhich will commence drawing in the Rcprefcntatives* Chamber,
in Boston, on the Seventeenth of March next, or sooner, if the
Tickets (hall be disposed of.
SCHEME
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125,000 Dollars, to be paid in the following Prizes, lu'ojett to a
deduft»on of twelve and an half per cent, for the use of the Com
monwealth,
Prizes.
1 of
2
3
6
10
3°
80
90
100
120
161
200
75*5
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
25000.
65 TICKETS may be had of the fevcral Managers, who will
pay the Prizes »n demand—of the TREASURERof the Common
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Store, Franklin's-Head,
Court-Street, and at other places as usual.
BENJAMIN AtiSTIN, jun. T
DAVID COBB,
SAMUEL COOJ>ER, ). Managers.
GEORGE R. MINOT, |
JOHN KNEELAND, J
Bojlon, July 28, 8790.
ADVERTISEMENT.
PURSUANT toa Relolve or att of Congress of the 10th day
of May, 1780, relative to the deftru&ion of Loan-Office Cer
tificates by accident ; notice is hereby given to all whom it may
conccrn, that on the 2d day of January 1780, the house occupied
by the fubicribev in Market-Street, Philadelphia, took file and
wasconfumed, in which was lodged a number of Loan-Office
c rtificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the said
fire : Therefore if any person, hath any objection why the said
Certificates should not bje renewed, agreeable to the resolves of
Congress, they must make them before the expiration of three
months, from the date hereof.
Invoice of Loan-Office Certificates deproyed in the houfepj John Holker
on the iddaynj January 1780.
*■ N °- „ , Dols.
r 1636 i Samuel Cooke, jun. New-York, 600
'673 1 ditto. dc. 6on
Dollars, 1200.
"Ub- |
No.
1636
J673
1778.
March 13.
In tellimony whereof I have signed the present for pub
l.catmn HOLKER.
■A ew-i r*h, JvJy ?6(A, 1790.
556
Total 14,842 dol
Total 53, 765"
Dollars.
icooo is
3000 arc
2000
1000
s°°
200
10 o
50
40
3°
20
10
8
The IRON WORKS,
BELONGING to the Estate of JAMES HUNTER, deceased,
pleasantly fuuated on the falls of Rappahannock River, with
in two miles of the town of Frederickfburg, and on' of Fdlmoutli
and Tide-Waier Confiding of a For jc, 130 feet by 54, eight
fires, and four hammers—a Coal House, 8d feet by 40— a Slittn ;;'
and Rolling Mill, 68 feet by 3P, for Sheet, Rolled and Slit Iror.
A Merchant Mill, 70 feet by 36, with two pair of llont* ; o> ?
whereof French Burr, and every other neccflary apparatus lor.
manufacturing Flour in the bell method.—A Saw Mill adjoining
r he fame, 60 feet by 10. The walls Qf all these are of
Itone, extremely strong and neat, of the bed workmanship. The
running geers, machinery and fixtures of the whole, commodioui
ly and judiciously contrived, and performed in the most masterly
and advantageous manner, on large and improvfd plans. Tni
different departments are conveniently disposed and arranged at
prop r diftanccs, on a deep and capacious canal, calculated to
lupplv more large and works, and future improvements ;
rautioufly secured and guarded again (I casualties from frefheis, or
high floods ; has its source in the main body of the river ; a co
pious proportion whereof, to any reasonable degree of quantity,
is at pleasure colle&rd and turned in by a compleat set of well
conftrutted strong dams, which have not broke, or given wav,
since their formation, near nineteen years past.—The head ?nd
fall of the water operating on the wheels, is about twenty feet:
thegreateft part of the works are in good repair, and the whole
may be rendered so at a small ex pence. In the append - ge< there
to, are a convenient Tanvarrt, variety of (hops and utensils for
mechanical bulinefs of different kinds, houses for the Managers,
Workmen, &c.—And about 4 to 8000 acres of land contiguous,
mostly wooded, including some Farms and meadow land. AIJo,
will be offered for sale, a number of valuable Slaves, such as Ham
mermen, Refiners. Colliers, Forge Carpenters, Wheelwrights,
Smiths, Millers, Waggoners, Sec. These works have advantages
over any in America, particularly in refpeft to the sale of their
pi oduce, as there is none of the kind to the southward thereof, to
mod of which extensive, rich and fertile country, there is easy
conveyance by water ; nor is there any Forge within 90 miles,
nor a Slitting mill at all in this State, which might share the cus
tom, or vie with its manufaftorv—fome other peculiar advantag
es that can best be pointed ouj on the premises, which on applica
tion will be shewn, and the terms of Sale made known, and very
easy for the purchaser, by
Virginia, May 28, 1790.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Proposals uiill'le reccmi at the osct
of the Secretary oj the Treajury, to the frjlday iif OSoter next in.
' c [ u J , ™< J° r oj all rations, which may he requiredfor the ujeof
the United States, from the firji dayaf January to the thirtyfirfl day of
December 1791, both days inclujive, at the places, and within the dijlrilts
j herein after mentioned, tiz.
At any place or places, betwixt York town in theßett of Pennfolvania
and Fort Pitt and at Fort Pitt, '
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and F&rt M'lntofh, 0* the
River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntofh.
At ant place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntofh and the mouth of the Ri.
ver Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufkingum.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Mujiingum, and
up thefuid River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tufcarowas, and Hence
over to the Cayoga River, and down the said River to its mouth.
At anyplace or places, betwixt the mouth of the river Mufiingtm. and
the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth ojthefiid RiverSaotf.
At any place or places, betwixt the month t>J Scioto River, and the ninth
"J t»e great Miami at the mouth of the great Miami, and from thenct to
the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohiof and at the said Rapids.'
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of th> great Mieth'. if.the
said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and tience tver to the Miami Viuagt,
on the river of the fame name which empties into Lake Erie,
j,A' ?' f<Keor 'placesfrom the rapids of the Ohio, to the mouth of tit
Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Poji St. Vincennes, at Pofi Sr. fill.
cennes, and thence up the fiid river Wabifh, to the Miami Villart, h*
fore defaibed.
At any place or places, f rom the mouth of the Wabafh river to the moM
of the liver Ohio.
50,000
2,160
555
50
1000
At any place or places, on the eajlfidc of the river Mifßfppi, from the
mouth of the Ohio river, to the mouth of the Illinois river.
At anyplace or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to the Miami
Vulage.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandujly, and at
jandujky, and from Sandufky to the mouth of Ca\oga river.
At anyplace or places, brt'uiixt Fort Pitt aud Venango, and at Venango.
At anyplace or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at Le Beuf
betwixt Le Beuf and and Prefa'lfle, at Prefq Isle, and betwixt Prela'
ljle and the mouth oj Cayoga river.
At the mouth of Cayoga river, and at any place or places, on the rout
c" the m " lti °f river, by the way of Big Leaver
Dollars.
10000
6000
6000
6000
SOOC5 OOC
6000
8000
45°°
4000
3600
3220
2000
60680
At any place or places, on the eafl fide of the Mi&fippi, between the
mouth of the Ohio andthe rivtr Margof indufively.
At an\t>lace or places,from thefold river Margot, to the river Yazous
inclusively.
At any place or places from the mouth of the river Tennefee, toOcochat
po or Rear creek, on the/aid river inclujively.
Should any rations be required at any places, or within other
notjpeelfed in these proposals,!the price of the fme lobe hereafter agreed
on, betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be fapplied are to confijl of the Mowing articles, .
One pound oj bread or flour,
Onepound'ofbeef t or I of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whijkv, '
One quait of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar, f
Two pounds ojfoap, r * cr ' 100 r&ttons,
One pound oj Candles > )
The proposals mufl fpecijy the Jowejl price per ration. No cre<la is re*
l ulrcd - ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
' Secretary of the Treasury.
125000
By Order oj the Honorable Richard Morris, Esq. Chief Jufticc of tht
N State of New-York. ■
OTICE is hereby given to Lewis M'Donald.of Connefticot,
..i a ".' J bre , n nt. t debtor, that upon application and due proof mad*,
to the laid chiefjuftice by a creditor of the said Lewis M'Donald,
purluant to an ast of the Legislature of the said State, entitled.
An att tor relief again# absconding and absent debtors," paf
cd the 4th April, 1786; he,-ihe said chief justice, has diretked
j j Lewis M'Donalds estate, within this State, to be fciz
ed, and that unless he shall discharge his debts within twelve
months alter the publication of this notice, the fame will be fold
tor the payment of h.s creditors. Dated the 3d May, 1700.
New-York, May y, 1790. (iw. ijr.}
HPHE Creditors of Col. E*LISHA SHELDON, of Salilbury, are
hereby notified, That the Subscribers appointed Trus
tees of said She ldon's efiate, will attend to the business of their
appointment on the firft Monday of August next, at the house of
Jacobus Da v is, in said Salisbury, agreeable to the Ast of Affem
y- The interest of tht creditors requires their general atten
dance" HEZEKIAH FITCH, >
. JOHN BIRD, V Irultccs.
Sahjbury, (Conneßicvt/, June 28) 1789.
FOR SALE
ADAM HUNTER, or / (
ABNER VERNON. J "eeurort.
(3")