PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, >0 4 t BXOAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 34, cf Vol. 11. j
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA No. XVII
/ Scs mains, autour du tione, avec contusion,
Seniaient la jdioulit, a 1a dwifioti.
THE Guises, in their secret conversations
with the King, inSnuated, that if the Con
itable resided at Court, he would be alluming ;
-would think to ircvent h . Majcfly like an infant,
and ewen ro bjiij him r, "t <l*e ferule and the
rod. They tfunted J.; mt-imat?
t»ni; with the Bourbons, the eternal enemies of a
<;rown, to which they had however long aspired.
Finally, they fuggelted, that he could not con
fide in the Constable, without ejepofing his life,
and the lives of his brothers, to the discretion of
people, whole ambition the Kings his predeces
sors had always dreaded ; and whom they had
everiUelJ in a date of humiliation, and at a dif
tajjrfe from Court. Penetrating geaiius easily in
spires fufpi#i6ns into contratffedminds. Nothing
more was wanting to persuade a weak King, to
leek a pretext, honourably to difinifs the Conlta
ble. As soon as the ceremony of the obsequies
ofHenry lid. was compleated, the King over
whelming him withcarelies, figr.ificd to him,that
not being able, withfutticie«ulignity to acknow
ledge his merit, nor the value of the services
•which he had rendered the Kings his ancestors,
he had resolved to difrrharge him from.the cares
and b.irthens of government, too disproportion
ate to his great age : that he would no longer re
quire of hiin, any excessive application to business,
but would reserve him for some occaftons of eclat:
that he ihould always cenfider hiin, not as a fer
\ant and a fubjedt, but as a venerable father :
arid that lie would give him leave to retire,
wherever he saw fit. The Conflable easily com
prehended that this lesion had been taught the
■King, by the Guises, through the mother
and the Queen of Scots : that it would be useless
to reinonltrate : and that it was better to receive
as a recompense, orders, which his refinance
might convert into diftfrare., He thanked rbr
King ; rctomniende 1 to liici his lons «V)9TfTS ne
phews, and retired to hiscaltle atChantiliy, ten
leagues from Paris, where, he had more than
once before, supported viciHkudes of fortune 1 .
As soon as the Queen mother and the Guiles,
had banished the Constable, thcy>ftudied to ciif
embarrass rhemfelves of the Prinre de Conde.
It was easy to forefee, that his fiery temper,
and animosity againlt the Guises, would trans
port him to attempt all the means imaginable, to
thangi the farm of government ejt abitfhed.
It may be remarked in this place, that these
expreliions intimate an idea of reformation of
government, and regeneration of nations, like
those which prevail at this time, in France, and
in many other countries after the example of
America. One would conjecture that the Prince
of Conde, had it in contemplation to establish
committees of con-efpondence, to call a conventi
on, or national aflembly ; to deliberate on a ra
tional plan of government, to be adopted by the
nation at large. There are, indeed, in history,
feme traces of a party, who wiftied for a republi
can government, about this time : but unfortu
nately, their ideas of a republic, appear to have
been the fame, with those which prevail too much
at present, in France. Two hundred and fifty
years of experience, have not yet brought the na
tion to advert to the true principles in nature,
npon which government is founded. The Mar
quis ofCondorcet,the friend ofTurgot andßoche
luucgnjj, so great in geometry, is not more
accurate in the fcijjnce of government, than Eti
eiint de la Boetie, the friend of De Thou and
Montair.e... The fame »eformation is wanting
now, that was so necefiary in 1550. Whether a
J'cvereignty in one single aflembly,' eonftituted
hy a double reprefentation,'as the present allein
lily is, would have answered then or will
now, are questions that' hereafter may deserve
consideration. It ended formerly, after an hun
dred years of civil wars, in the simple absolute
monarchy of Louis XlVth. Time inn ft deter
mine whether the continued deliberations and
exertions of the National Aflembly, will finally
obtain a balance in their government. This is
the point, on which their success will turn, if
they fail in this, simple monarchy, or what is
more to be dreaded, simple despotism, after long
struggles will infallibly return. If the wild idea
of annihilating the nobility fliould spread far,
snd be long persisted in, the men of letters and
the National Aflembly, as democratical as they
SATURDAY, AUGVhT, 7, 1790.
may think tnemfe'vei, will find no barrier against
detpotiiin. The French, as wall as the Creeks,
at this time our refpeiftable gusfts, and all other
nations, civilized and uncivilized, have their be
loved families, and nothing b -t defpotilra ever
did or ever can prevent them f-om being dijhn
-I'iijhed by the p vplc. These h loved families in
France are the nobility. Five eighths of the
" The 11 'ft
ii'eil c.. ■ vv il . . ■ id the attachment
of the people !;? tl«o! • ' in flioit, the
whole power of the nation \ II fall into their
hands, and a commoner will tl :nd no chance for
an elfilion after a huis rim-, unlefo he enlist
himfelf under the banner and oto the regiment
of some nobleman. Forth,:c< this pro
jeel of one aflembly, is t •* impolitic imagin
able. It ij the higfn k ' sriftocracy. To
the royal authority it-5a < >>;>»' y fatal as to the
commons. [11 what inaryyy 7 s nobility ought
to be reformed, owuiiiied, methodized, and
wrought by reprefentaiion or otherwise, into an
independent branch of the l.'giflature? What
form of govermnenr would I ;ve been belt for
France, under Francis Ild.'ai. 'vhether the fame
is not now neceflary,,under XVlth, are
questions too deep and exretlf perhaps for us
to determine. But we are vi < competent to de
monstrate twopropofitlous, fir thata fovereigH
ty in a single aflcmbly, can >secure the peace,
liberty**!- i'afety of the pe;/p:r ' Secondly, that a
federative republic, or in- r. r_words, -a confe
deration of the republic of 1" s, with the repub
lics ofthe provinces, will nut i fufficient to se
cure the tranquility, liberty, , operty or lives of
the nation. In some futc: c _ ne, if neither hu
fi;iefs of more importance,:. :tnufemein» more
agreeable fbo.ild engage v v may throw toge
ther a few thuughts,upon . c_■ queflions. This
may be done without '.he fir'neft apprehenfton
of ever being confuted : fay ■, \:a we Ihould fail
to produce argument? to — . 1 'ce oar readers,
ve '••Uii ; • -*: i'ht.Ljj that 1 ime wSJ 1
supply alt our def'eds, and demoiutranrTnf" or,
:he truth of both the propoEtions.
(To be Continued},
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE US'IT ED STATES.
MR. FEX.YO,
I HAVE o!>fcrved, with fains concern, a re
commendation of Mr. Weifltr'j in the Tablet,
No. IJ7, advifingtheexercife of Fencing to be used
people of sedentary employments, students,
&c. Exercises and amufenients in a republican
government, should at least, be rational—they
should be virtuous—they should be, if possible,
ufeful. I Ihould be glad to know in what the
rationale of Fencing consists, or of what use it is ?
Perhaps we will be told it is of use to enable a
man to avenge himfelf when insulted, or defend
himfelf when attacked. But in allgoodgovern
ments the laws are fufßcieutto proteA all good
citizens. I would therefore recommend students
and perfoni engaged in sedentary employments,
as a substitute for Fencing, to provide themselves
with a few tools of any mechanical branch that
they would phoole, and which would afford some
exercise to the body. No country in the world'
is better calculated for machinery than America,
A student tolerably well versed in Mathematics,
and poflefled of some of the common tools of a
Turner might make some important and ufeful
discoveries in Mechanics—and be of more use to
his country than the whole race of Fen cert, Cud
gellers, and Prize-Fighters, from the creation of
the World to the days of Noah Webster.
A disposition to ape the follies and absurdities
of Europe has too longprerailed in America ; and
it is to be lamented that the InftruJtors of our
youth should make such a falie eftiniate of things
as toadvife recreations inconsistent with the laws
and constitution of our country, and inimical to
the morals of the people. If our youth learn to
fence, they must wear Avoids; because it is a fol
ly to learn a thing for which they will have 110
use. Thus provided with fivords, they will soon
find an opportunity of reducing their theory to
pra&ice ; either by insulting some other person,
or conceiving theinfelves aff-onted upon the slight
est ofcafion.* Edge tools fli' ild not be putin the
hands of fools or madmen ; hey are only fafe in
the hands of men of jears experience, who
have seen enough of the Wc Ito defpifeits vani
ties ; but mep of this deft -.tion do not desire
them. They ave then o;;I proper in the hands
549
of those v hose profeifion is War—by futh let them
be worn ; but let us not imitate frame parts ot
Europe, where every Journeyman Barber to bi
met with has, inilead of a Curling; Tongs, a long
Rapier by his fide. How contemptible and ridi
culoqs it is to fee a nation, in profound peace,
with every one his sword to liis iide, as if tbev
were a nation of Ifhmaelites where every man's
hand was raised against the hand of his neigbijai'!
O quantam ctt ip rebus inani.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
Saturday, May 22.
THIS day the great question on the right of
making peace and war was finally determin
ed. The molt remarkable speech previous to paf
fingthe decree was that of M. le' Comic deMira
bean, who said, that it was. not merely his opinion,
nor the plan of his decree, that he rose to defend,
but, what was far dearer to hini, his character,
whidh had been fulpecfied as unfriendly to li
berty.
He said, many reports had been circulated to
his prejudice ; but he valued them not In order
to be ufefol, he said, he had feafched for trutL,
and that truth he had fpokeu, at the hazard of
difplealing. He then proceeded to defend his
plan, and replied to the principal objections ilai t
ed by M. Barnnve.
]\J. E-arnave, M. le Marquis de la Fayette, and
lev era! other members, then demanded to be
Iveard, but the majority (of the AfleinHy, think
ing there had been enough of speaking on tilt
fubje<3:, determined to close the debate. And
after a number of plans of decrees had been read ;
the following plan of M. de Mirabeau, amsudjd,
obtained the preference by a great majority.
THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY DECREE,
lit. That the right of peace and war being
velted in the nation, war shall not be refqlved
upon, but by a decree of of the Legiflari ve body,
I) l.iall be made 011 the explicit notification of
CJ ' « ■ -
fantftioned by liis Majelty.
ad. That the care of guarding the kingdom
from external attacks and impending dangei s>, the
maintaining irs rights and poffefiions, is com
mitted to the King by the constitution of the
State—to liim also belonged the maintenance of
political connexions abroad, the conduct of nego
tiations, the appointment of Ambafladors, the
power of raising armanents, and making prepa
rations for war, in proportion to those made by
neighbouring states ; the power of distributing
the sea and land forces, as he may judge proper,
and of directing their operat ions in time of war.
That in cale of hostilities impending, or
actually begun, an ally to ailift, or a right to
preserve by force of arms, the King ftiall be
bound to give notification thereof without delay
to the Legiilative Body, and to make known th#
causes and motives thereof. And if the Legiila
tive body is not fitting at the time, it lliall t?e
called immediately by the Kiijg.
4th. That if upon such notification being made
by the King, the Legislative Body are of opinion
that, on the commencing of such hostilities, the
Minister, or other agent of the Executive Power,
is culpable, she author of such aggression ihall
be prosecuted asa State criminal. The National
Afleinbly hereby declaring, that the . nation re
nounces for ever all ambition by conquelt, and
will not employ the forces againlt the liberties of
any people.
jth. fhat if upon such notification the
Intive Body ftial: resolve thrit war ought not to
be made, the Executive Power snail be bound
immediately to take the necefiary steps to pre
vent or stop hortilities, the Ministers being al
ways held to be responsible for delays.
oth. That in cafe of an impending war, the
Legiilative Body fliall prolong the Seilion ; and in
time of war there frail be no recess. This article
is remitted to the Comi?iittee of Conjl itution to be
jnended.
7th. That every declaration of war shall be
made in these terms " By the King, in name of
the nation."
Bth. Tliat during the course of a war, the
Legiilative Boay shall have a power of retjuirind'
the Executive power to negotiate a peace.
9th. That it belongs to the King to negotiate
and design all neceflary conventions and treaties
with foreign Powers for the general good of the
State ; declaring hereby, that treaties of peace,
[Whole No. 138.]
1alliance, and commerce, /hall not be effectual till
ratified by the Legislative B»dy.
10th. That the instant a war ceases the Legi
slative B«dy (hall fix a day on which the extraor
dinary troops shall be disbanded, and the army
reduced to its usual peace eftablifliment; that the
pay of the troops ihall not be continued longer
than such a day ; and if the extraordinary troops
ihall remain undifbanded after such day so ap
pointed, the Minister fhallbe responsible lor the
fame, and prosecuted as a state criminal; that for
that effect, the committee of constitution (hall
be bound forthwith to examine this article, and
prepare a report on the responsibility of Mini
uers.—This Decree received the a[fent of the King.
STATES.
PUBLISHED
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT TH £ SECOND SESSION.
fccgun and held at the City ol New-York, on Monday the fourth
January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT making provision for the Debt of the
United States.
W'HEREAS iuftice and the support of public crcdit require,
that proviliou 1 ould be made for fulfilling the engage
ments of the United States, in refpe£\ to their foreign debt, an."
for fundmg their domefiic debt upon equitable and fatistattory
terms :
Be it tnacltd by the Senate and Houfeof Repref ntativet of the Un ited
States of America in Congref* ujjemb/cd, I hat rekrving out ot the mo
nies which have ariltn liuce tne lail d«iy ot Qeceinoer last patt,
uad which (hall hereafter arrft irom the duties on goods, wans
tnd merchandize imported into the United States, aud on tnc
tonnage of (hips or vclfels, the yearly sum of fix hundred thou
sand dollars, or so much thereof as may be appropriated irom
time to time, towards the support ot the government of the Uni
ted State:, and their common defence, th relidue ot the said mo
nies, or so much thereof as may be nccellary, as the fame shall be
received in each year, next after the iuin reserved as alorefaid,
fhalJ be, and is hereby appropriated to the payment of the mtei eft
vhich lhall from time to time becomc due on the loans heretofore
ynade by the United States in foreign countries ; and also to the
payment ot inteiefl on such further loans as may be obtained foi
dilcharging the arrears of interest thereupon, and the whole oi any
part of the principal thereof ; to continue so appropriated until
the said loans, as well those already made as thole which may be
made in virtue ot this a£l, lhall be fully fatisfied, pursuant to the
contracts relating to the lame, any law to the contrary notwith
standing, And provided, That nothing herein contained, lhall be
eonftrw»d to annul or *lfri ar" aniimi '
And a 6 new loans arc and will be necelTary for the payment of
the aforefaid arreais of lniereft, and the inftaiments ot the prin
cipal ot the (aid loreign debt due and growing due, and may also
be found expedient iur etfeding an entire alteration in the ilate of
the fame :
Be itjurthcr enaflcd, That the prcfident of the United States be,
and he is hereby autnori/ed, tocaufe to be borrowed on behalf ot
.the United Siatcs, a futn or lums, not exceeding in the whole
twelve million ot dollars ; and that so much of this sum as may
be neceUary to the discharge of the said arrears and inflalments,
and (it u can be effe&ed upon term* advantageous to the United
States) to the paying otf the whole of the laid foreign debt be ap
propriated solely purposes : And the Pr lident is more
over further authorized to caule to be made iuch otherjcontra&s
re 1 peeing the said debt as ftiall be found for the intercfl of the
f id States : Provided neverthclefs y That no engagement nor con
lutl ihall be entered into which shall preclude the United States
from rcimburling any sum or fu-ms borrowed within fifteen
years after tne lame ihall have been lent or advanced.
And wnereas it is deiirable to adapt the nature of the provision
to be made for the doioefhc debt, to the present circumllances of
the United States, as far as it Ihall be found practicable, confifl
ently with good faith ar.d the rights of the creditors ; which can
only be done by a voluntary loan on their part ;
U it there fori jurthcr matted, That a loan to the full amount
ex the laid domellic debt be, and the fame is hereby proposed •
»ud mat books for receiving lubfcriptions to'the laid loan be o
pened at the I reafury of the United Siatcs, and by a cominiffion
« to be appointed in each ot the fa.d Sta.es, on the fi.il. day of
Odtober next to cpntinue open until the last day of September
following, .nclufively, and that the sums which lha'll be fublcri
jCrtto, be payable in certificates issued for the laid debt
Jtcnrdingtoiheir specie value, and compmmg the interest upon'
1-uch as bear .mcrcllto.hc laflday of December next, inclufivdy -
•which said certificates (hall be of thefefeveral defer, ptions, to wit:
Those illued by the Regilter of the Treasury.
Uiel,iriJed r by ' hC c " ,nmi ® one " ol in the several States,
. CatCSS,Ue '' pUrfuanttothcaa of Congress of the
fecund pi Japua: t one thousand seven hundred and feventy-nine,tor
™ ,k° 7°l\ Cral cminions ol twentieth of May,
one thousand seven hundred and seventy-seven, and the eleventh
■rf'r °it C j L ° U hundred and feventv-eight.
hole illued by the commiflioners for the adju'ftinent of the ac
counts of the quarter matter, commissary, hospital, cloathing and
marine depaitments.
Those issued by the commiflioners for the adjustment of ac
counts in therefpcftiveftatcs.
r„ r -n!i C .' ff T d by thc hle a " d prcfent paymaftcr-gencral, or com
miiiiom rot army JMcounts.
Those ilfued for the payment of interefl, commonly called in
«ents ot intcrcft. 7
And in the bills of credit issued by the anthoiity of the Unitrd
the fa,!)"i IlT 1 affe ; n '; lcd > s < the rate of one hundred dollars in
e laid bills for one dollar in specie
And be it further enaElci, That for the whole or any part of any
fun, fubfenoed ,0 the bid loan, by ar,v>pc, s on or pe,fLs, or bod y'.
debt the W nhr k r P , a 'r d T "' e P Hnci P al of bid domcllic
the or fuhfenbers (hall be entitled to a ce.tificate
th \ Un,l, - d States owe to the holder or holderl
lonaWo, 't. er ! rt r e ! r a sum to be expressed therein,
percentum° f " n u, fn * id ' bcarin S an °f>*
P cr ann « m > payable quarter yearly, and fubjeft to re
ef Dnncinal pa , ymcnts " ot ""Ceding in one year, on account both
h .ndied o ,T't ,n,e ' eft proportion of eight dollars upon a
hundred of ths sum mentrenW infuch certtficatl; and to another
certificate purporting that the United States owe to the holder or
holders thereof, his, her or their alliens, a sum to be exprefled
therein, equal to the proportion of thirty-three dollars and one
third of a dollar upon a hundred of the sum so paid, which after
the year one thousand oight hundred fhill bear an interest of fix
per centum per annum, payable quarter yearly, and fubjeft to re
demption by payments not exceeding tnorn year, on account
ot principal and interest, the proportion of eight dollars upon a
hundred of the sum mentioned in such certificate : Provided, That
it shall not be that the -United States shall be bound
or obliged to redeem id the proportion aforefaid, but it shall be
underflood only that they have 1 *! right so to do.
And be it further ena&ei> That -for the wltole or any part of any
lum fubfcribfcd to the said any person or persons, or body
politic, which shall be paid in the interest of the said domcftic
debt, computed to the said last day of December next, or in the
said certificates iffurd m payment of interest, commonly called
indents of interest, the fublcriber or fubferibers shall be entitled to
a certificate purpoiting that the United States owe to the holder
or holders thereof, his, -• or their afligns, a sum to be fpecified
therein, equal to that I v m, her or them so paid, bearing an
i tereft of three per cen.am per annum, payable quarter yearly,and
fubjeftto redemption y payment of the sum fpecificd therein,
whenever provision fhi 1 < made by law for that purpose,
And be it further enat , That a commifßoner be appointed for
each State, to refidc :!> whose duty it shall be to fupcrintend
the fubferiptions to th>* loan ; to open books for the feme;
to receive the cert ifiga, J .hich shall be prefentcd in payment
thereof ;to liquidate t ./ScuTvalue of fucn of them mall not
have been before 1 j to issue the certificates above menti
oned in lieu thereof, a ng to the terms of each fubferipuon ;
to enter in books to be imiupt for that purpose, credits to
the iefpe£V»vt XubfcriW <to the said loan for the sums to which
hey shall be relpettiv milled ;to transfer the said credits up*
ou the said books from tnneto time as shall be requisite ; to pay
the interest thereupon the fame fhali become due, and generally
to obferveand perfarn i<;ch directions and regulations as shall be
prefcrib.d to him by $ Secretary of the Treafurv, touching the
execution of his of&cc.
And be it further ena*-'*. That the stock which shall be created
purluant to this ast, fh transferable only on the books of the
Treasury, or of the ijuf .nmiffioners refpeftively, upon which
the credit for the fame IUV ex ift at the time of transfer, by the
proprietor or propriet •of such stock his, her or their attorney :
But it shall be lawful fa lie Secretary of the Treasury, by special
warrant under hishanc #nd the seal of the Treasury, countersigned
by the comptroller, and - lftered by the Register, at the request
of the refpi ttire propr ,e rs, to authorize the transfer of such
stock, from tho books oi one commifTioner to those of another
c unnnflioner, or totjlo. f the Treasury, aod from those of the
frealuiy to those of a cotr "-rflioner.
And be it further enaH That the interest upon the said flock as
the fame (hall become due, flbalJ be payable quarter yearly, that
is to fay, one fourth u thereof on the last day of March ; one
other tourfh panther*. the last day of June ; one other fourth
part thereof on the 1? - iy of September ; and the remaining
•urth part thereof ontl ft day of December in each year, be
-1 lining on the last day r March next enfu ing, and payment shall
be made whensoever t - credit for the said ftoek (hall exist at the
time (lk h inter ft shall mc due, that is to fay, at the treasury,
the credit for the fam. II then exist on the books of the trea
sury, or at the office of t« * «■ ommifljoner upon whose books fueh
eiedit shall then exist. * if the interest for one quarter shall
nt be dem ndvd befpre the expiration of a third quarter, the
fame shall be afterward d mandable only at the treasury.
And as it may happeuthat some of the creditors of the United
States may not think fr > become fubferibers to the said loan,
Be it further enafledy ut nothing in this ast contained shall be
conlt ued in any wife i« r, abridge or impair the rights of those
creditors of the Unite* , es, who shall not fubfenbe to the said
loan, or the et)nfrafti . • rrfpriQive elatms ar<
.iA. Uui : .id rights shall remain in full force and
virtue.
And that such credit v -. may not be excluded ftom a participa
tion in the benefit ntmded to the creditors of the United
States in general, while said proposed loan (hall be dependia E ,
and until it lhall from the event, thereof what farther or
debt' arra "S cmcnts ma y be aeceffary refpeftjng the said domestic
Kc it therefore further led. That such of the creditors of the
tailed States as mdy notfubferihe to the said loan, shall neverihe
"«ive during the year onetlwufand fcven hundred and nine
one, a rate per centum oa the refpe&ive amounts of their respec
tive demands, including bereft to the laftday of December next
equal to the interest payable to fubferibing creditors, to be paid
at the fame times at the fame places, and by the fame persons as
thereinbefore dircfted, concerning the interest on the (lock
which may be created in firtue of the said proposed loan But as
ome of the certificates now in circulation have not heretofore been
liquidated to specie value, as mod of them are greatly fubieft to
counterfc.t.and counterfeits have actually taken placc in numer
ousmftances, and as emfcrrakment and imposition for
t . reasons, attend the payment of interest on those certificates in
their present form, it shall therefore be necessary to entitle the said
creditors to the benefitofthe said payment that thofcof them who
do not possess certificates issued by the Register of the Treasury
for the registered debt, (hould produce previous to the firft day of
June next, > their refpeftive certificates, either at the Treasury of
the United State?, or to some one of the commiflioners to be ap
pointed as aforefaid, to tha; end that the fame may be cancelled
and other certificates,ffue<l in l.eu thereof; which new certificate!
lhall Ipecify the fpccieamount ol thofein exchange for which they
are given, and (hail be oth wife of the like tenor with those here
toforc issued by the said Register of the Treasury for the said re
gistered debt, and shall bejraiwferable on the like principles with
those d.refled to be issued on account ot the subscriptions to the
loan hereby proposed.
And be it further enafltd, That the commissioner, who thai! be ap
pointed pursuant to this a a,ffiall rcfpeftively be entitled to tWfol
ftTof f 7 : The toamiiSwr far the
ir f W "^ a^ P r' r ' <h "™* rr a«.! fifty dollars : Thecom
miffioner for the (late ot Mafftchufetts, fifteen hundred dollar, '
I he commissioner for thf *i»l««f Rhode-Island and Providence
Plantations, fix hundred dollars : The commissioner for the ft ,re
of Conne&icut, ope thousand dollars: The commissioner for the
fate of New-York, fifteen hundred dollars: The commissioner
for the state ot New-Jerky,feven hundred dollars : The commis
sioner for the flare of Pennsylvania, fifteen hundred dollars • The
comm.ffioner for the state ,1 Dcleware, fix hundred dollars'- The
commissioner for the state of Maryland, one thousand dollars •
The commiffionerfor the ftrtiof Vrrg.nia, sis teen hundred dollars ■
The commissioner for the fete of North Carolina, one thousand
dollars : The commissioner for th, Hate of South Carolina one
tioufand dollars : The eoromiffioner for the fiate of Georgia
fion"oraltfe °"V W ' ! ' Ch falanCS mjll be '» fu " ™m 2
tion 'orall fervicesand expellees. r
And be itjurther enacied, That 'the before thev
enter upon the executionoftheir several offices, (hall refpefiivelv
f d apd faithful 3
? ' a , nc < (hall aifo >,ecome bound with 0n.,0r mor'eTurc
°fthc Secretary of the Treasury, in a penalty
wi hcL r ' f hOUl l nd ' nr ' than ten thousand Ca^
tTvely " r S ° oi behavior in their said offices reipec
bylhe Un l iteTs,'ar PrOVifi °M I°' ' he deb,s of ,he "fpeftive State,
econo mica I and eff>A w " be greatly conducive to an orderly,
TS, effectual "ringement ot the public finance, :
J rejurtner cnaSsdy That a loan be proposed, to the a
550
mount of twenty-one million and five Wadded ihoufand
and thit fubferiptions to the said loan be received at the fame ti.-Des
and places, and by the fame persons, as in rclpe£l to the loan here
in before proposed, concerning the domcftic debt i f the Uaitel
States. And that the sums which shall be fubferibed to th« fa-.d
loan, shall be payable in the principal and interest of the certifi
cates or notes, which prior to the firft day of January last, were
lffued by the rcfpe£live States, as acknowledgments or evideneef
of debts by them refpettively owing, except certificates lifueri Ly
the commissioners of army accounts in the ftdte of North-Carolina
in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-fix : Provided,
That no greater sum shall be received iu the certificates of any
state, than as follows : That is to fay,
1 In those of New-Hampshire, thiee hundrei tbou{a»d doflarv. -
In those of Maflachufetts, four milfiou dollars.
In those of iUiodc-llla»d.and Providence plantations, tw»jiuau
dred thousand dollars. ' •
In those of Connecticut, oue million fix hundred thgufael d«r»
lars.
Iu those of New-York, one million two hundred thousand dol
lars.
In those of New-Jersey, eight hundred tUoufatd dollarv ,
In those of Pennsylvania, two.million two hundred thfJuCipft
jAellar*.
In those of Delaware, two hundred thousand dollars.
In those of Maryland, eight hundred thoufaaid doilais.
In those of Virginia, three million five hundred thoutand dol
lars.
In tho& of North-Carolina, two million sous hundred thousand
dollars.
In those of South-Caroliiia, four million dollars.
In thofc of Georgia, three hundred thousand dollars.
Andprovided, That no such certificate (hall be received, VBkh
from the tenor thereof, or from any public record, ast, or docu*
ment, ihall appear or can be ascertained to have been iflfued for
any purpose, other than compensations and expenditures for (*u
vices or supplies towards the profeeution of the late war, and the
defence of tt.e Un::ed States, or of Come part thereof during the
fame.
Provided also, and be it further eneSed, That if the total amount
of the sums which (hall be subscribed to the said loan in the debt
of any state, within the time limited foi receiving fubfcrpiions
thereto, (hall exceed the Cum by this a£l allowed to be subscribed
within such State, the certificates and crcdits granted to the rcf
peftive fubfertbers, (hall bear such proportion to the by then
refpe&ively subscribed, as the total amount of the said sums Ihall
bear to the whole sum so allowed to be subscribed in th- debt of
such State within the fame. And every fubferiber to the said loan,
(hall, at the time of fubferibing, deposit with the commillaoiier the
certificates or notes to be loaned by him.
And be it further enafled, That tor two-thirds of any sum sub
scribed to the said loan, by any person or persons or body poli
tic, which (hall be paid in the principal and interest of the certi
ficates or notes issued as aforefaid by the refpeftive states, the fub
feriber or fubferibers shall be entitled to a certificate, purporting
that the United States owe to the holder or holders thereof, or his,
her or their afligns, a sum to be expressed therein, equal to two
thirds of the aforefaid two-thirds, bearing an interest of fix per
centum per annum, payable quarter yearly, and fubjeft to redemp
tion by payments, not exceeding in one year, on account both of
principal and interest, the proportion of eight dollars upon a hun
dred of the sum mentioned in such certificate, and to another cer
tificate, purporting, that the United States owe to the holder or
holders thereof, his, her, or their afligns, a sum to be exprelfcd
therein, equal to the proportion of thirty three dollars and one
third of a cellar, upon a hundred of the said two thirds of such
sum so subscribed, which after tlie year one thousand eight hun
dred, (hall bear an interest of fix per centum per annum, payable
quarter yearly, and fubjeft to redemption by payments, not ex
ceeding In one year, on account both of principal and
proportion of eight dollars upon a hundred cf the sum
in such ccrtif.cate, and that for the remaining third of any info f>
subscribed, the fubferiber or fubferibers (hall he entitled to a cer
tificate, purporting that the United States owe to the holder or
holders thereof, his, her or their afligns, a sum to be exprelTcd
therein equal to the said remaining third, bearing an .ntercftof
three per cent, per annum, payable quaitcr yearly, and fubje&to
redemptionby payment of the sum fpecified therein whenever pro
vision shall be made by law for that purpose.
And be it further enc&cd, That the interest upon the certificates
which shall be received in payment of the sums subscribed towards
the said loan, (hall be computed to the lad day of i.he year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety one iuelufivtly ;and the interest
upon the stock which shall be created by virtue of the laid loan r
shall commence or begin to accrue on the Err ft day of the ye«r one
thousand seven hundred aid ninety two, and (hall be payable
quartei-yearly, atthefame time, and in like manner as the interest
on the stock to be created by virtue of the loan above proposed io.
thed»meftic debt of the United Stares.
And be it further enabled. That if Uie whole f»m allowed to be
subscribed in the debt or ceftificates ofany State as aforefaid, (hull
not be subscribed within the time for that purpose limited, lucfr
State (hall be entitled to receive, and (hall receive from the Uni
ted States, an interest per centum per annum, upon so much of the
said sum as (hall not have beenfo subscribed, equal to that which
would have accrued on the deficiency, had thefame been subscri
bed, in trust for the non-fubferibing creditors of such State, who
are holders of certificates or notes lijued on account of fervicesor
supplies towards the profeeution of the late war, and the defence
ol the United States or of some part thereof, to be paid in like
manner as the interest on the stock which may be created by vir
tue of the said loan, and to continue until there ihall be a fcttle
ment of accounts between the United States and the individual
states ; and in cafe a balance (hall then appear in favor of such Siate,
until provision (hall be made tor the said balance.
But as certain States have refpe&ively iflfued their own certifi
cates, in exchange for those of the United States, whereby it might
happen thai interest might be twice payable on the fame funis:
And kit further enabled, That the payment of interest, whether
to States or to individuals, in refpeft to the debt of any State, by
which. iuch exchange Ihall have been made, (hall be suspended,
until it fhail appear to-the of the Secretary o£ <bc
Treafur), that certificates iflued for that purpose by such Suns.
have been re-exchanged or redeemed, or until those which Ihzll
not have been re-exchanged or redeemed, (hall be surrendered to
the United States.
And be itjurther enaffed, That so much of the debt of each State
as lhall be fubferibed tp the said loan, and the monies (if any) th*t
(hall be advanced to the fame pursuant to this ast, shall be a charge
agaitiftfuch state, in account with the United Stales.
And be it further enabled. That the monies arising urtder the re
venue laws, which have been, or during the present fesi° n 0
Congress may be pasTed, or so much thereof, as may be necessary*
shall be, and are hereby pledged and appropriated for the payment
of on the stock which shall be created by the loans ?-
forcfaid, pursuant to the provisions of this ast, fir ft paying th-®
which shall atffcon the stock created by virtue of the said
mentioned loan, to continue so pledged and appropriated, until
the final redemption of the said stock, any law to the contrary not
withstanding, fubjeft nevertheless to such reservations and prion
ties as may be requisite to totisfy the appropriations heretofore
made, and which during th« orefent session of Congress may e
made bylaw, including the sums herein before rcferved and ap
propriated ; and to the end, that the said monies may be invioifj
bly applied in conformity to this ast, and may never be lVerlf
to any other purpose, an account (ball be kept of the receipts an
difpofjtion thereof separate and diftinft from the product or any
other duties, imports, excifcs and taxes whatsoever, except luc.ft a*'tsgff&x
■wards fupplyin,, anu fnrt, " . ® ma )' bt fquifite 10-
lor the paymentof the thall 1 fU " P r,w,li °n
be created by virtue of the afl J, i 3CCrUC thc *«* to
terms thereof refpetfiveiy and a™ J "» conformity to tha
tifica.es to be grantedforth! fcm r" 8 *° the te!,or ot cer-
And be it fuuh e r,naZ,A*l?l PUrfudm to thls a «-
Jhall be made of lands in 'the wefternTe ° f ' he sal " which
that may hereafter belon >to thc Tin!. !T« V "° W bclon g'ng, or
kereby appropriated towards (ink. in A, difch ' hJI b< "> and
for the payment whereofthe United d ' fcha 'g'r.g thc debts,
this aci may beholden and (fc .11 h ? , o .* arc or b y virtue of
1,1 the flld debts (hall be fully (atisfied >P ' y'° th " ufc un "
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG
Arp*#viD, August 'li S """ e '
GEORGt WASHIVPTAv n FOURTH, 17QO.
(True con .j SHINGTON, Prcjidcnt of thc Unit-d States.
„ , CONGRESS.
house of representatives
FRIDAY, JULY S '
f O Z'r dmer * " fthe Scnate t0 ?"»d.
S UiJ > t0 "IT""" "part of the State Debts.
(CONCLUDED.)
Twit i lackson.
cmT'n- b." ' B overnm "". tht f.«r will
A gentleman from Maffachufrm /tor. a \ ,
tendency of this meifure will hero i 1" I ? CS ' hasafked if the
benefit—-he i.of .he on °~
"vague queftion—lff, r the allows this to be a
Will not adopt it H■' fevs hnw " V ]? KUe °' dubious . iurcly he
ference betwVn theW* ,hat I " w '" i„,er-
Pr Th n t ' ' hC of ™»POnT e o' t t' bH °' "* Um ° n ' a " d
ha ! 1 W l" Srant the gen.
thing left to usurp. The States will be I j Wl " be no
but the (hadow of power—they wi'l ber V" Y
mere colonies, wit Lot even The p o w„thcvoJA' °'
to the revolution. Y previous
«i... r , ,„d t, t „r£ P ,, P f,°^v; d r„r "":" ld <■<
mcnt therefore goes too far, wb n,t tend S tn ß n u*
power we give the government, the belter wc LpT T-'
S.r, the com petit ion so far from btin - an injury is „ mvT""
benefit—jealoufies are necefTarv to aiMV. " * y Opinion a
asthofejcaloulics ex,ft, the pople w'll be fcfe"'k"
""clearly proved that the Stairs comnbu'te to '
portion to the number of inhabitants The L P r pfQ "
fachuf«tts his likewifc n, ,; rr j .i,;_ gentleman from M.if
the consumer p,£ b „I dent thaTl f C & gC " :l<?m " n
pulation—they contribute fir, agreeably" to n' t l} P °~
nanufaflurrs a greatdcal, and On- .mports little '
faftures nothing, and imports every tiling. Therefore r m,l " U '
akho her population is not near folaree comrik , Gcor « ,J >
puhhetrrafur y by import. ontributes more to the
« ar *; ,mf r- and *
arguments so far as refpeif, the aiTumpi.ouTuaW i"l«
Zth'so „°cX X or'Vh« U ""' S " d °" ly bc P<™ d
u- it i, -ttzszuFttzztt «*«»«
stead of burth-ns and reftritlions it is th/'i" ' ™ Jf? 5 thllt m "
£ pptx. tt::i Sra
sk r ; h r e i the r
prore in finr power chan ofd *£%£
Theone.seq,, lly g,ven us with the other, an 1 carry the idea nf
rSI ux'mo r" f n " CmCn wilh »> »"d you may carry d,-
Con rT?' "• T e arc noC co,l " ncd >" °ur powers and f
1 C ,aX t ' ,c o . c " ,zcns lo 'he whole .mount of their
35&^<aaera& aa £
B'n,H° ~Sr JJ received no in.ercft norexp tied any-they
JWrted with the certificates a. ihcy flood, without m en ft-the
« fc. U tM . ! h n ° W th Tl anH contrar y '° the tenor of the ccr-
Ikev w!|| h ' n ternt '°** t>f the Siate, and the contra ft t . ley mad
«i«. The on mU :: "- H " C will bc 3 prodigious diftinc
othe'rs mo 'he creditors olf Georg-a receiving interest the
will hV n r'T ' 5 V"u° be rCCOUC,Ird ? Brides, fir, rhe debt
t err# ,T,' me ' ,h " C W,U bc a » debt, if
feddoll T "r " ho,e L os thrce hundred and fifty thou
tl lou f Jn j " rs > f u PP" r '"S, the debt to amount to seven hundred
<4 the&r' h he ° r,g ' n;, l hold L er whodid lhe fcrvieeor furnift
th'n /:T P y r, f fCOntCn to be taxed to iupply this interett, I
1 he himfelf was not allowed it ? |
oot ar S umcnt af tfcs now against the measure which did
continl , t o rmCr cxcife whlch had to set the
dv Ae' j ? rc if ftcd - Are there members har
themfelv c ° f f'°" a " d a<io P t 11 now . after they have exerted
Xre tl ~ K r must bc the Cafc « or lt be a
i 'cjcCtcd—Will this house at I before msotioned, be like the
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Sectary ofStatt
'a& are tlie ways and TOam l ' re J tft " ? Where elf
If our , mpoft is ftrctched to the £"«*> this ace, mutated ddht ?
not onlv opprels the peoDle bin kJ y ° U g ° farth^r
"oceed todireft , axatlon 1 h f you ; revenue- w. II y 0 „
Pie w,II not submit to it ' &"«!>««> informed thatthe peo
•f-The refpcQive States ought 'f" " the P enuc
Qiould appear the reftilt. , and tke meafurr
of deliberation, whichallouri. f l s""' but the rcfull
'P ? «ranceW-lf^:" e^ r ""f J"' 1 «• -a
now aher so many decision. £ i_ w f °"ner, if adoptee
to the warning „f a Hancock ,ct us llftei
fignaturefirft pronounced to'u aLf „ H u 7 * s ' who b V h '
patriot expressing his doubfs of " ' hf vcncrji>i
pest without the confont of * ?*!? *" this ,t!
Her Legislature, in j ? tes firft obtained
prefentativej—this was done »!►►. Senators and Re
bout that cou'rf U.rlf Boo < a
her otieen. borne down with the wrilhr !rf debt ' a "<
have done the fame ? V„„ I, ?§ f '««—What othe
fwo States only which are Caro, ' , »—so that thi
inftruflionj from their Leeiflamr,. » bufmefs have reccivet
thofetwo States have received '"V* '
efted, if the other States Ihould »mAT' r er , c so mu ch inter
tlicy art to receive no benefit from T and w ' , S ri
Hoafc.jp ,hi„i of d\tz£s^r t *-» £.
a'ldatfcftto poftpone 't Until the before it is too lat,
«» will be goo/ ,heV_if SjfT l "--. l ' 1115 S°°d «»«
•[ :t is.(Turned at the Present ftffi^ r fti n ?, W I """ then J but
the power of relieving ourfelv« t , bound withou
not exhibit a to u
fcrving republican manners by ap' & '"Poffib.h.y of pre
"ig the foundations of our ; a " o,>s and la y-
Sir, out times, happily I bel,evT£l'l' mrncnfcdeb '«-
ptriug—We shall return to the mlfc!?,), country, are near ex
'» the burthen, we impofe--When,££, 8 J7 P T P a ' tic, P a »
arrive#—happy indeed will it h#» f Ul gatior
° p P P^P l '. we have not"o cj'd """""" °
1 to °li»ve been guilty of t - condera nation-.
and this debt of fetter, on the pe<»le Am° "c the nati ° l
ways think, as is the falhi„ nof X' Z "? Slr ' W! " not al
iron ban«l of tytanny is f e h j,„ ? c da y i and when th
wlyi by imposing enorm'ous anl? "* W '" fall 'hof,
gar the people and bind them ,n cW^" 01 * debt> will be '
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST a
An engrofled bill declaring the aflen* „fr
grefs to certain adts of theVate ofm i°T
3F«.?#asS=3
I t A " lc %« was received from the
Houli had received his alli,„_ vi 2? ™™f01,,,,
debtorll,. f °"s'
zes impoi ted into the United Stares mrl 1
tonnage of/hip, or vefle"J , ""
V imitCd dme 3n ""itTed';
-J "ffl for the temporary eflablifhment of the
W e^e r apnoimed! !r ' 3 " d Mr " Wadfworth
in abKad A nmit!C^ t0 P re P are and bring
in a bill to add two commiflioners to the board
already eftablifced for the fettle,nent of the ac
r a rfta b t e er een thc the fssz.
The house went intd committee on the bill fur
"°fn'f provjfion forthedebt of the United
dLhr V I 1 a* rer ? e<fts the aflumption of the
debt of the state of Georgia • ifrJ r™L.•
spent thereon, the committee rose and reported
certain amendments. ported
On the quefbon to order the bill engrofled it
M ne Kr ' a " d so thebill was rejected.
/* irom the committee appointed
presented according to order, a bill to add two
commiflioners to the board for fettling accoums
rW •Tfn Cnt into committee on
the said bill—and after some debate it was agreed
to—Ayes 36—Noes 19. -greea
The committee rose, and the bill was ordered
to beengrofled. cu
Mr. Boudinot reported a bill to fatisfy the
LoTsS' W,dOWOfthC '* e General
, THURSDAY, AUGUST 5.
• W , C, e P afli?d to bc «ngrofled this day
viz. A bill making an appropriation todifcharge
ihe Sarah Stirling,widow ofthe late Major
Gen. Lord Shrltng—A bill authoring the Secre
tary of theTreafuiy to take measures for finifhine
r ™- L, ght-Houfe at Port,and Head intheDiftrift
of Maine—provided the expence shall not exceed
1500 dollars.
, j C - L or adding two Commiflioners to the
board tor letting the accounts between the Uni
ted Slates and individual States was pafled.
A message was received from the President of
the United States, informing ihe house that the
atft to provide more effedually for fcttlina the
I ™ c ?" nts between the United States and the in
dividual States had received his assent.
Mr. Blood-uiorth's motion for appointing a com
mittee to prepare and bring in a bill to repeal for
a limited time the sth fecftion of theatfl for estab
lishing the temporary and permanent feat ofthe
government of the United States,\vas taken up.
551
noes.
Messrs. Ames, Afce, Baldwin, Brown, Cadwal-
r r °Jt Cly ~ er > C ° ,eS ' GIIJ,
Madifnh m° f UC ' J 'ckfon, Lee
plrkir P -!f WS ' Mo ° le ' P " Muhlenberg, Page
nickfon Srlel c' Se " ey ' She ™«>>
Wh w e ' ° n *' Sum P ter , Tucker, Vininr
White, Wynkoop, Williamfon. M . ' £ '
r H ° u . fe resolved, that a Surveyor-Ger/eral
le United States, be appointed who /hall
Sn .Ttji m" " 'i e o"'° £"
in^thefe e f WaS u eCeiVedfrom the Senate return
cwded *t "2? an,endmeilts - The house prZ
mai l, ° C °" fide r r £ I he said •mendments, and
made foine progress therein.
A petition of A, Macomb, and IV. Edgar ref
ffssrr? chey kave
Secretary of the T Wa r a " d referred to the
rjof tfee Treasury Adjourned.
T , tR / DAlr » AUGUST 6.
.1,, J j e . blll making an appropriation to difchar^e
the claim, of the widow the bni
'SB? ta:
rC3d th _ e th »d time and palfed.
Winn introduced the following refo
utnonzed to close the prefeiit session -md
dj ou ra the refpe<ftive houses on Monday next
to meet again on the firit Monday in
»? ~
"■>~=»ber," and ,o X
Cm, . del ,„e, „ d was Snail, negated
Mr. . wing introduced a refolutiou to the sol
a™rage"s"f«fi 'tL'tef
i he amendments of the Senate to the bill mat
atS fi ° n for the P^-nfoSdTb^
ot the United States, were taken up.—The hmifi!
proceeded in the consideration of the amend
s '"ndrj alterations were proppedit
r„dt e h no :,"^f d ,o —■ l xi M™
■ tilths (S. C.) to itriko oat 12 cents Mi» l
on fait for the porpofe of inft,"ng I cents
cafioned a considerable debate The ane<V '
ttriking o», Was determined toU^S"
a,, Th. r°r 3 °' "«<»'' I ™r S Z7i
The houle went thro the amendments
agreed to the whole with very few a T r !" " d
A niellage was received f L tL P
the United States with the f' efident of
State of New-Terfey of he , *T'° n thc
fed by Congress to the constitution of the UnlLd
States ; New-Jersey has ratified all the amen/
menu except the fccond and thirteenth
[ Ameliage was received from the Senate
the bill to compensate Thorn,, Barclay f or ' va .:
%f T eS J concurred with amendments
r -/r^ ; rep ° rted a blll f ° r the relief of
fondtti ' Whkh W3S rCad the se
a C ) moved for leave to brinp- in
a bill foi altering the times of holding the
in South-Carolina and Georgia fids-l"™!
till co-morrow ro o'clock. djourned
NEW-YORK, SATURDAY .AUGUST y.
APPOINTMENTS.—BY AVT\UORtT¥. '
John Stoics, Judge of ihe North r' o fciver Ohio—
R. Da 'ic, declinfd. Samuel V j"' Wlll 'a®
Maiblrhead, vice, Richard ft . h ? P""
furvevor of the port of Patuxet, vice lnhn A f "? MtuUs.
chned. Thomas AmtU, furvevor of fh/ „ 5'l on „ y Aborn, de
vice, Job Comftock, declined. Joshua i f u 'iT' l4,
ful ot the V. S. of America f*r X. J of Maryland, Coa
iridgc Updike, surveyor of the port of°N h * Daniel Ei ~
John Street, of Fayal, ViceConfal of tht'u s'f i R -"land.
Aarfrt •«»-
uon now in this city Chiefoof theCreeltna
preachcd'by > Dr °™ alio ». "ill bo
Old ta "«
Mr V.nmg moved the previous question or.
I.ers* ! °n on ' *"/?■ be ' ng fu PP° rted ' b Y five menj-
Quett^n) q! ' eftlon ™ s ' taken " Sball tl >e maia
called 10WpUt/ the Yeas and Najs were
For patting the main question.
M „ AYES.
Meffi s Benfon, Bloodworch, Burke, Floyd, Fof-
Lawrance r r ° UC ' atilc "; n > Hu ger, Huntington,
e-u nce » Leonard, Livermore, Renflellear
cyT' *■**, (M.) sS
rl, " K ' ,er . Trumbull, WziC-LONDON, May 12.
YESTERDAY, in the House of Commons, a
meflage was received from tlie Lords, that
they will proceed further on the trial of Warren
Hastings, Esq. on Toefday next.
Mr. Secretary Grenville moved that an account
of the number of vellels and their tonnage em
ployed in the Southern Whale Fishery be laid be
fore the house.
• Mr. Fox wished that an account m'ight be added
of the trade to Nootka Sound.
Mr. Grtnville said, he had applied to the per
sons engaged ifi that trade, from whom such in
formation us he could obtain Ibould be laid before
the house. '
Mr. Fox and Mr. Sheridan said, it was extreme
ly nccell'ary to have as coirett an account of this
as could be obtained—and also to be informed
■whether any fectlcment, and of what nature,was
forming, or intended to be formed 011 the coast.
Mr. Grenville said, he was not yet prepared to
give any information oil either I'ubjett.
The report of the Committee of Supply was
brought up, anil 1 he resolutions' being read,
/lir.. Fp*- said, he u'uderftood the geuei al intent
of the vote of credit .10 l?fc, to provide for the un
certain expences that mult neceiurily be inenr
ed, ftiould the hopes us the country be disappoint
ed, and Spain refufe an amicable accommodation.
Hut he had heard that orders far ah augmentation
of the forces by feu and land were already ill'ued.
If this was true, he saw 110 reason why the elim
inates of tliefe augmentations might not be refer
ed to a Committee of Supply—a committee of
"Ways and Means voted the money necetfary im
mediately—and made provision for paying the
interest of it. No maxim in finance could bet ru
er, than that the means of paying any expence
iliuuld go hand in hand with the expence itfelf.
There was 110 end to the mifchtefs arising from
fpcliding money one year, and providing for the
payment the ntxt. The public also lhoiild know
a: once the extent of any expence, as nearly as
possible, in order to judge of the expediency of
it. The House, therefore, had a right to be in
formed why a vote of credit, without an eflimarc
had been p.eferred to the other mode.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer laid, to have vo
ted estimates in Committee of Supply would
have implied," that the augmentation of the F6l
- was 10 be kept up for the whole year—and
money mull; have been boirowed, and taxes im
paled to pay the interest, before it was known
certainty that either would be wanted. Al
tUo i: was ti ue that augmentations were already
ordered, these augmentations might nor be com-
another—and if the hopes of an fcrriitbble accori- ]
tnedation Ihoald be disappointed, provision might j
be made Iqr the additionalexpence, which would
then becotne neceiiiiry, by as early an application
to Parliament as public convenience woiild admit.
Mr. Fox said, lie ncvertneant to nU'ertthat esti
mates voted under the bare apprehension of war
would be fufticieitt, if war fhotild actually ensue,
but that the augmentations already ordered
tnjght have been voted and provided for in the
regular way.
'The Chancellor of thi Exchequer said, that would
have been to continue, for a whole year, aug
mentations, which, in the event of an amicable
accommodation, might not be wanted for so long
a time, or mightnot even be all made.
The refutations were agreed to.
The House resolved into a committee, and the
Chancellor 1 of the Exchequer, after Hating thea
lnount of the claims given in by the American
Loyalids, the amo:r,u allowed by the Commillion
ers, and the sams already paid, moved
That the film of 22/\,odo\. be granted for further
payments —and t
The sum of ;;,oooi. to make good the lodes
fqftained by cer.ain persons, inhabitants of the
United States of.America.
Some of these, he said, had (attained very hea
■ vy loffj-s by a conduct that entitled them to the
nyunlikentc of f his coumry—and it was found,
oil enquiry, taatttae res Ton why they had not ap
plied in per Jon for conipenfation, v, 4 g, that their
lofles bad dcpi i . ed thtrni of the of leaving
America.' <
These were rhe loaons formoney lie -meant
now to make—bin hegave notice, that, on Thurs
day next, lie should propose a compenfatjon in
tliie way of perpetual annuity to the Penn family,
/•.vliofe lofles were eftiinated by the Comniiflioners
at 500.0001. andalfo for some other claims not yet
provided for.
The resolutions were agreed to.
He then moved a mode of conipenfation for
frtch pcvl'ms as fnftainrd lc'i'esby supplying the
army or the navy u ith itores Or provisions, &c.
For i nch us fufiVred by loflcs of income ai ifing
from office.".
These resolUtions were also agreed to.
Mr. SKiriJa;: fai-J, lie had :i motion to make,
which he knew not whether he had worded pro
perly.; but the purport of it was, to'obtain in
formation whether the trade to Nooika Sound,
and the fettle merit forming, or intended to be
formed there, was undertaken under the fauui-
on ami authority of Government, or merely as
an enter prize of private perlfons.
The Chancellor of thf Exchequer wished the mo
tion to be portponed till the information promis
ed in his MajeftVs anl'wer to the Address could
belaid before the House. Licerifes to trade to
Nootka Sound had been granted ; and he knew
of 110 authority for tfeat, or any other purpose,
J l)iit such as those liceMes contained.
.ilr.'&heriJ.i/! laid, what the house had now
heard, that the fettlcment was a private enter*
prize, was very material.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, whether
the fettlcment was or was not a private enterprize,
there could be no d.nbt that it was incumbent on
the honor of the country to demand fatisfadioii
for any insult or injury offered to its fubjedts,
whether in their pri ate capacity of traders, or
acting under the more immediate famftion of go
vernment.
Air. Sherid in said, if the Right Hon. Gentleman
meant to insinuate that he did not think i he coun
try bound in hdi; Jt *v protect every futjedl from
insult or injury .. M 6 put a conihuiiiion on his
Words which they w*tlls not bear.
The motion was poUponed.
JUNE 4-
The information contained in the m«»(l authentic letters from
Madrid, »:vc as a rcafon for the laigc armaments fitting out that,
as a general Coßgrefs II to be fhoitly balden at Franckfort, to
whii.-h ambtlTadorl from all she-powers in Europe will'be lent,
the kin ;of Spain has thought fit to place his naval and military
eftabliihmema on a iclpe&ibl-.; fcoting, to give a p.oper conle
quenec to this embiify.
The Ducal class ot the Peera r, independent of Rcga! Tales, L
Twenty in number, flxtinfiinrl wilty ,-t Ho vci v d Aant peiiod,
rcducc it to Seventeen ; add as the Hottfe of Hano\n i s likely t"6
extend its branches, we undci stand it to be the S weriign't deter.
niina:ion to raifc n« other fu ; j. tt but ihofe of the Blood Royal to
\ tins superior latik of Bvitifii nob'ifiy.
At the Grand MulicalEmtitairiment in Westminster Abbey,on
(Saturday the 29th May, there 12&0 pcrformeis piefent.
Major Sc«tt, me nber of ?jiij»menf, was reprimanded by the
Speaker, 101 a fcandiloUE »■ I hrelluus paper, reflecting on the
and honor ofthe H0 > . and* an the conduct ot the manage
rs of the Impteachineint ol Warren Hallinjk, Eiq.
There were tn the prit'j. s of the ChateKs in Paris, on the »6th
May, fioo prifnm is.
Last week died at Portfin©uth,'m the 70th year
of his age, Mr. William Chantreil, a matter in
his Majelly's navy, who particularly diftinguilh
ed himfelfat Tt incomale, in the East-Indies, 011
the 16th of December 17J,7, by the cool intrepi
dity of iiis condutfr, on an occasion where tew
would perhaps have ibevvn the fame contempt of
danger, lubtingii from the magazine,
one of tlie boats blevr up, and a large fire brand
£cll blazing into an.rher boat, in which was for
ty-five barrels of pov ler, covered only by a fail,
j stove one of the bar.; is, and mull inevitably have
lint -all U c lii-t !Ly rt
into the' /la! i.\A Mr. Citamiell t&ken the
burning brand from the powder, thrown it over
board, and then, quenching the remains of the
lftre which lay upon the fail; rcftored all to fafe
ty and quiet. The late Commodore Boys, who
was then Capt. of the Pearl, from this circum
itance, immediately look the fubjetfl of this para
graph under his protection, and he was fortu
nate enough in the war before last, to secure a
handsome competence.
A peiTon who fills an inferioi situation in one
of the public offices in this city, and who has
resided at a village within seven miles, for some
years pad:, from a frugal turn of mind, has ac
tually picked np as many bricks npon the roatl,
onhiswiy home (fan evening, as have latcy
built him a neat dwelling-house I—No trivial
lellon of prefeverance.
NEIVTORK, AUGUST 4,
On Monday the . 2th ult. there was a violent |
rempeft at Leomihfter, Maflachufetts, attended
with hail w"hich wm of fucli a size, and fell with
such velocity, that the stoutest Indian corn was
beaten into ftired*—vaft quantities of apples
were beaten from tHe tOes —not only the fruit
but •te trees received great injury, the bark be
ing broken from their limbs ; the windows brok
en in the hotifes, and the fences received such
, impreflions, as to Jie discovered at 90 yards dis
tance. Many of the hail (tones were as large as
liens common size was a little more
than an inch in diameter. Twenty four hours
aftei it fell, of it were mcal'ured at the
foot of a hill, and found to be 26 inches deep.
The Saturday following great datnag# was
done by hail at Shrewibury, county of Worcester.
Of all the curfei that can befal a fi;ee_people,
therein none perhaps greater, tfran to be hood
winked and led blind-fold. bjr. demagogues and
State Empirics. ' '
Demagogues will cry up an appeal to the peo
ple, but then it is only when they have previous
ly poisoned their understandings—when the
people are left to the natural freedom of their
own minds, they difcovcr and despise the ravings
of the faiftious. A pragmatical orator told a
great man at Atjftris, that whenever the people
were in their rage, they would certainly tear him
to pieces ; yes, ftys the other, and they will do
the fame to you whenever they are in their wits.
It is ill arguing from particulars to generals^
552
EXTRACTS.
and therefore the character of a country fliocid
not be drawn from the samples exhibited by yij
divicfuals ; especially when it is coniidcred that
whim and vanity fend many abroad.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UHIT ED STjtTF,$.
It may bea profitable I'ubject of enquiry, what
i are the principal causes which produce the fub
veriion of free governments—luxury, ambition
and avarice, are undoubtedly the three great lead
ing principles ; but the operation of ih'.-fe,
pears in an almolt infinite variety of fornis. F.co
nomy is a darling virtue in a republic—thii finen
leadsto impatience under the necellary expence-,
delay* and procrallinations of popular afleiublicj
and the people, from controlling the tardu.clt
of public measures under the direction of a nume
rous body, with the prompt and rapid move
ments of an energetic executive, are gradually
led to depreciate the former, and unduly to e(ii
mate the latter ; theconlequence is juiily to l;e
dfeaded ; for when the public confidence and rc
fpeift, is transformed from one particular branch
of the government, and centers in another, a
preponderation of influence necefiarily takes
place, which commonly proves paramount to
the barriers of freedom. How far the/e'reflec
tions will apply to the pre fen t situation of ai'«
fairs, is left to the profound, penetrating, sagaci
ous, jealqus politicians of the day. One very
obvious reflection obtrudes itfelf, and that is,thac
it isofinfinire importance that all the branches
of the government should harmonize as much,
as polfible j for an indignity offered to one,ftr&cS
' at the vital exiften'ce o{all three.
FOR SALE
The IRON WORKS,
Belonging to the Eftatc of james hunter, dec ear<&,
plcafmtly (ituated 011 the falls of Rappahannock River, with
in two miles of the town of Fredenckfburjf, and on of fa)moult*
and Tide-Water Cpnfcfting of a forge, 130 feet, by 54, rjgHt
fires, and four hammers—a Coal House, 80 feet by 40— ? Slitting,
and Rolling Mill, 68 teet by 3c, for Sheet, Rolled an 1 Slit l>on.
IA Merchant Mill, 70 feet by 36, with two pair of flor.es ; one
whereof French Burr, and every other neceilary apparatus for
• rnanufa&un'ng Flour in the belt method.—A Sjw Mill Wjoinioz
rhe fame, 60 teet by 10. The walls of all these are of
Hfonc, extremely strong and neat, of the be ft workmanship.
running geers, machinery and fixtures of the whole, commoaiouf
ly and "judiciouHv contrived, and performed in the moll noafteily
and advantageous manner, on large and improvtd plans. The
different departments are conveniently disposed and arranged at
di&arices, on a dpep and capacious canal, calculated to
(upply more large and extensive works, and future improvements;
cautiously secured and guarded againll casualties trom frefaets, or
high floods ; has its source in the main body of the. riv:r ; a co
pious proportion whereof, to any reasonable degree of quantity,
is at pi afure collected and turned in by a cotnpleat set of Veil
lUwij, dawt. wl.i-b h-ve ::c;t r i —
icetheii formation, near nineteen \ f r? pad.—The head t?A
fall of the water operating on the wheels, is about iwcrt-y r <.ei
the grcateft part of the ks are in good repair, an J the whole
may be rendered Coat a small cxpence. Iri the appendage l there
to, arc a convenient Tanyard, variety of (hops and utenul* lor
mechanical bt)finef» of different kinds, houses lor the Managers,
Workmen, &c.— And about 4to 8000 acres of land contiguous,
inoftly wooded, including some Farms and meadow land. Aifo,
will be offered tor sale, a number of valuable Slaves, fucb as Hjtti
raermen, Refiners, Colliers, Forge Carpenters, W-heclwiights,
Smiths, Millers, Waggoners, &c. Tbefc works have advantages
over any in America, particularly in refpeft to the sale of tnfcir
produce, as there is none of the kind to the Southward thereof, to
mod of which cxtenfivc, rich and fertile country, there is easy
conveyance by water ; nor is therc any Forge within 90 mites,
noi a Slitting'rfiill at ill in this State, which might (hare the cus
tom, or vie with its manufactory—fome other peculiar advantag
es belt be pointed out on the premises, which on applica
tion will be (hewn, and the terms of Sale made known, and very
€•' fy for the purchaicr, by
ADAM HUNTER, or ) v 9prntan
A3NER..VERNON. J ExCCUI°rS
(3W-)
yirzir.id, May 28, 1790.
JuJI publijhed,
In II Vols, bound and lettered) and to he fold by the Editor of
this paper, Pri(.e 131.
MEMO t R S
BLOOMSGROVE FAMILY,
In a scries of LETTERS to a Citizen oj Poha-
[)E LPHIA.
Containing Sentiments on a '
MODE of DOMESTIC '
Suited to the present state of Society, Government, and Manrtifi, ' n
the United States of America,
And on the Dignity and Importance of the '
FEMALE CHARACTER.
Interspersed with a variety of AMECDOTkS.
By ENOS HITCHCOCK, D. D.
The following account cj the above, is contained in a letter to a gen
tleman m this city.
" The design of this work is to show the great importance of
, early education, by exhibiting the portrait of a family in which
this great objett was attended to. In this family were .a f'vn a'- I ®,
daughter, wnofe early education was fupcrintended by their pa
rents, and particularly by their mother. The fever,al ftcps which
were taken to inflil into their young minds, sentiments of virtue,
' and to form good habits, are represented in such a manner, as 10
render the whole a mofl pleasing piclure. The letters are '" ter ~
Iperfed with judicious observations, interesting anecdotes, and re
fined sentiments, tending to develope the fubj«£l. It is written
'in an agreeable mannner, and a familiar style : Precepts are en
forced by a pleasing narrative ; the bell way of communicating
inftruflion. The scene is not laid in any particular place, but u
ii left to the reader's imagination to place it in what part of Am<
I rica he pleases.
This day publijhecl,
And to be fold by THOMAS ALLEN, Queen-Street, corner o
Fly-Market,
A COLLECTION OF
ESSAYS AND FUGITIVE WRITING
OF THE
On various fuhje&s.
By Nqah Webster, jfuri,