PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, N,EAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 33, cf Vol. ll.}
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA. No. XVI.
(CONC tCDED.)
r ~*pposant, fans rc!£-:hc, avec trop de prudence
l.cs Guises anv Condeu et la France a U France.
Toujours pict" i s'imir avcc fc* rnnrnn*
it ciumgcrfin d'intetrr. He rivnux, ct cTan.i's.
Y OUIS, Princc of Condc, brother to the King
3~A of Navarre, full of ambition anil inquietude,
•j<l not reft raided % -si • few with
n-ief the mediocrity of his Fortune, anfwerfa ill
j the splendor ofhis birth. Without offices,go
'erninenis, or employments to support him, he
:ould not bear, bvt with a difcoritent which he
ookno pains to Conceal, the exceilive grandeur
■f the Guises, who monopolized for themselves
he firft dignities and fairelt employments of the
kingdom. To his personal mortification he join
ed the disgrace of the Constable, wliofe niece Le |
lad espoused. He was lo ltriftly connctted with j
»im, and with the Marchal of Montmorency his
"on, that he saw in the humiliation of their houie,
he completion of his own misfortunes. TheAd
niral of fhatillon, and D'Andelot, his brother,
nitated him itill more by their advice. The fir It
a'as an ambitious, but an able politician, who took
i lecret advantage of all occasions, to profit of
to raise himfelf to high power. The
ither, fiery, natfionatc, continually occupied in
intrigues ana plots, ceased not, by his diicourfe
snd example to nonrifh in the heart ol Louis, the
hat.ed already too deeply inkindled. This Prince,
transported with rage, and almolt reduced to des
pair, law no resource for him, but by canfing a
revolution In the State.
Such was the function of affairs—fucli the jca
loufies ntul animolites of the Grandees, ready, on
the flightelt occasion, to break out, in an open
f'Kiirf, when, in the month of July ISJ9»* ,a l 1 '
,1 eel the nncxpe&eddeath ot Henry lid billed
b accident in a tournament by Gabriel Count of
i ' iitmo' ~ncy, one of the Captains of hi 1 ? guard
•„Vanci«lfJ_ UitfldtH m h a weak undec^
ending, anil a delicate cotilcitiuioTr; rucceeiled
' 11. l'hofe evils, which even under his father
had been expected, hatlened to make tbemfeNes
i-lc, under his feeble reign. Secret enmities
v jreeaiily changed into declared hatreds—and
v-courfe was soon had to arms. The youth and
it lbecility of the King rendered him incapable
ot "(jvernin™,. It »as necellary tint lie should
Jtive not a guardian, bccaufe h~ had palled the
are of fourteen yean, the term fired for the ma-
Wity of the Ki-ngs of France ■, but Miuiflers,pi w
'.ieiic aud laborious, who should govern under his
■authority',' until time should have lortilied his
THiderlka'iiding, and invigorated his Conltitution.
'he ancient u(age of the kingdom, called (lie
IVincesof the blood to th > place—and indicated
j ne King of Navarre, and the Prince de Coude,
".ho united to the proximity of blood, an ejlab
' filed reputation The Duke of Guise and the
ardinal of Lorrain, uncles of the King, by his
• -art wiih the Queen of Scots, pretended that
-his honor belonged to them, in confederation ol
leir lon-r labors and services to the crown, but
[pccially because they had in faift enjoyed it,
tfrVn* the life of the late King. Catherine ot
iedicis, mother of the King, expected to govern
lone: She depended on the filial tenderness of
, ei - son fever a I examples authorised herpreten-
but !lte founded her itrongeft hopes on the
iivifionsof the Grandees—and theterror of each
ac r tion, Ica'ft the other should carry the point,
facilitated herdeiign. ■
The Guises were fenfiMe that they wan red the
advantage «f being of the blood, to which tiie
laws and c-uftoms of thertation had ufuallyconn
-ledthe'go c mnent of the kingdom. They fore
"iw moreover, the empi e which the ceroncijs ol
mother would have over the mind of her son,
'till yonng and without experience. 1 hey re
!blved therefore, by joining and acting in Concert
vith her, to 'divide h power which they cielpa.r
----d of obtaining entire. The Queen, a Pr.nceft
of rtfinM renins and mnfcriline courage, knew
♦hat the Pvinres of the blood, fuflcrc<. with im
> uienre t ire r.uthoritv and grandeur of Queens.
Jilie nhopght also, thai a-- a ftrat.ger and an Italian
jhe had occalirn t<> for: Tv hevlelf, with the fup
•port of fonte tafiion. She con '-nteci there.ore
cheerful!v to combine-with the Guises, whomfhe
f.w dilpofed to accept of part of t.iac authority,
which the bourbons would have pretended to ap
onriar eto rhemfclvcs « : bout partition. ' hei e
wajb.it one oWlaclc so the Primary ot tfc.s Un.c - ,
«. K i •• -V*.; tbe ontnefc- connexion of theG,
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST, 4, 179°«
Fes -with the Dutchefs of Valentincis, who had
pofiefled the heart of the late Kinj;, to the time
of his death. The occasion was piefling, and the
importance of the bulinefs would not admit ot
delay. On one hand the Queen, to whom dif
fiin ulation was not difficult, agreei.l to appear, to
forget the past, with the fame moderation which
(lie had (hewn, in bearing with J;e» rival during
the life of her hulband : On the.jUther, the Gui
tar p««n[jictt -wlrcrHy -cricU their prffistt interest,
easily betrayed their friend, by -mfenting that
the Outchefs fliould be disgraced and difmitled
from the Court—They only required that she
flioujd not be totally ltripped of those immense
riches, which mult one day revert to the Duke
ofAuinale, their brother.
The King of Navarre, was then al>fent, and
very discontented witli the King and the Court,
who, in the treaty concluded with Spain, had
given no attention to his interelts, nor to the rcf
citution of his States. The new coalition at Court
had, with great address, diflembarrafled them
(elves of the Conltable, by deputing him to do
the honors of the obsequies of Hciirv the fecoml.
The personage who has that commilfion, mult
not absent hirofelf from the placewhere the bo
dy isdepofited, during the three and thirty days
that the funeral pomp continues. Artifice and
accident, having thus removed the two great ob
ltacles, it was not difficult to obtain, of t rancis
the second, seduced by the careiles and the charms
of his Scottish Queen, an arrangement by which
heplaced the reins of government, in the hands
of his nearcft relations. JLvery thing which con
cerned the war, was committed to the Duke ot
Guile. The Cardinal had tlis departments of
Julticeand Finance —ami the Queen mother the
luperintendance of all parts of the government.
To eltablilli their fneafures, which had so well
succeeded, and thatthe com plaints and intrigues
of the difafFetted might not (hfike the resolution
ohheli*»-«iAJilirxaiin;e theirjjlan.thete was
"rio dtrnrrrbut the tim. inrnur-rr-rticir
fall upon the Conltable, whole prudence and cre
dit were dreaded by theGuifts, and againlt whom
the Oueen had for some time entertained a secret
aveiiion. The Guifts feared him, on account ot
the jealousy, which for a long time had openly
divided their houfes—bccaufe, notwithltanding
the fall of his favour at court, the reputation of
his wisdom, preserved him a great influence
throughout the whole kingdom. In 'heirieciet
interviews with the King, they artfully drew the
conversation to this fubjec't, i.nd exaggerated to
him the reputation which the Conltable enjoyed.
TRANSLATKI)
[OR THE GA'/.ITTI OF THE NIT ED STATES.
PARIS.
INSTRUCTIONS KOR THE COLONIES,
Prefer,ted to the National AJJemil), in the name of
the Committee appointed Jor that purficfe, the 2
Mart/>, 1790.
Kv Mr. Bar nave, Deputy !rom Dauplrny.
CONCLUDED.
ARTICLE TWE 1 KTH.
1 2 tli TV at the time when the parochial Aflcm
-1 bly is formed, there ihould exist in the
colony, a colonial Aflembly antecedently elected,
and if this Aflembly has not declared that it
judges it advantageous to the colony to replace
it bv a new one, the parochial Aflembly (hall be
oin by examining the question themselves ; It
(hall weigh all the reasons which can decide or
authorize the existing colonial Aflembly, to fnl
fil the functions pointed out l<; the decree 01
rhe National Aflembly, or to fui-.lirurein its place
a new Aflembly, eletfied agreeably to theprelent
inltrinJlion. ~ . „, , ,
1 »tb. The parochial Aflembly fliall be bound
to make up its opinion within fifteen days, reck
oning from that when the proclamation ftiali have
been"made, and to give immediate knowledge
t'iereof to the governor of the colony, and to the
colonial Afl'embly. Its opinion (hall be reckoned
for so many votes as it ought ro lend deputies to
the coloni.il Aflembly, in conformity with this in
ftrinftion. . ~ , ...
14 h. Whenever the term in wnich all the
pariihes Ihould have explained themselves, lias
elapsed, ihe Governor of ihs colony lhall verity
the number of the parifi.es which have given
c eir opinion in favor of a new Aflembly ; he
nnll make the rei'ult thereof known by publica
with the names of all the pariihes which
c deliberated,the choke which each has made^
545
and the number of votes which it ought to have,
in proportion to the number of its atftive citizens
he ihall notify likewise this fame result to all the
parishes of the colony.
ijtli. If the desire far forming a new Mont
hly has not been expreffcd by the majority oi
i the votes ofthe several parishes, the colonial Ai
, fembly already elected, Hial 1 continue to cxiit,
and shall be chargcd with all the functions indi
cated in the dccree of the National Aflembly,and
consequently tbey iliall not proceed in the parifli
es to new elections ; if on the contrary, the de
sire for forming a new Alfembly is exprefl'ed by
the majority of the votes of the parishes, all the
powers of the existing colonial Atfembly shall
cease, and they (hall proceed without delay in
all the pariflies, to new elections, in the fame
nianneras if no colonial Aflenibly had existed at
the arrival of the decree ; oWerving that the
| members, either of the colonial Aflenibly or of
the exilting provincial Afleniblies, may he elect
ed upon the lame conditions as the other citizens,
to the new Aflenibly.
16th. The colonial Aflenibly formed or not
formed in the manner abovementioned, fha'l or
ganize itfelf and proceed as appears suitable to it,
and (hall fulfil the functions set forth in the de
cree of the National Aflbmbly, of the Bth infh
observing to conform themselves in their labors
on the constitution, to the maxims announced in
the following articles.
17th. In organizing the legiflativc power,they
will recollett, tliat the laws designed for the re
gulation of the colonies, meditated and prepared
in their bosom, shall not have an entire and defi
nitive exigence, before they have been decreed
by the National Aflenibly, and functioned by the
King ; that if the laws purely internal, can, in
cases of pressing neceflity, he provisionally exe
cuted with the fandtion of a governor, and re
lerving the definitive approbation of the King,
and oi the legillitnre of trance, the Jaws that
and which can in no wife change or modify the
connections between the colonies and the metro
polis, can receive not even a provisional executi
on, before it has been confccrated by the national
will ; it being understood however, that the mo
mentary exceptions, are not comprehended un
der the denomination of laws, which refpecl the
importation of prdvifions, which may take place,
in cafe of prelfing necessity, and with the fandlion
of the governor.
iSth. In organizing the executive power,they
shall obfeive that the King of the people of
France, is, as well in the colony, as throughout
the empire, thq only chief and supreme head of
this part of the public power. The tribunals,the
administration, the military forces, shall ac.
knowledge him for their chief ; he/hall be re
presented in the «olony by a governor, whom he
shall have appointed, and who, in cases of pressing
necellity, shall exercise his authority provisional.
ly ; but always ebferving the express refervatioH
of his definitive approbation.
■DRAFT OF A DECREE,
Propofcd by the Com?nittce.
The National Aflembly, after having heard
read the injlruftions digested by the committee of
the colonies, iii execution of its decrees of the
Bih inft. for the colonies of St. Domingo, to which
are annexed the small Islands of la Tortue, ]a
Gonave, and Me a Vaches, for the colonies of
Martinico, Guadaloupe, to which are an.-.exec!
the small Island of Defirada, Maria Salante, les
Sain:s ; the i'rencli part of the Island of St. Mar
tins, Cayenne and Guiana, St. Lucia, Tobago,
the Island of France and Bourbon, has declared
its approbation and adoption of the said induc
tions in their fulleft extent ; consequently it de
crees that they fliall be tranferibed 011 tlieprocefs
verbal of the feflion, and that its President {hall
wait upon the King, to pray him to give them his
approbation.
It moreover decrees that the King fliall be sup
plicated immediately to dispatch the said instruc
tions, as well as the present decree and that of
the Bth inft. refpetfliiig the colonies, to the gover
nors established by his Majesty in each ot the
said colonies, who shall observe and execute, the
said inftrucftions decrees, as far as concerns them,
under penalty of being responsible for theeonfe
quences, and without the necellity of their being
regfltered or published by any tribunals.
Moreover the National Allembly declares, that
it does not mean to e)iu<st any thing for the pre-
[Whole No. 137-1Tent With respect to the French eftabliikments in
the different parts of the world, not mentioned
in the present decree, which by reason of theii
lunation, or being of less importance, have not
appeared deserving of being comprehended in the
dilpolkions decreed for the colonies.
This inflru&ion is calculated for all the colonies
mentioned in the decree, with this difference :
lIK That with refpeft to Martinico, the firjl place
of assembling the colonial Ajfembly ftiall be at Fort
Royal; at Guadalotipe, Baffeterrc ; at Cayenne,
Cayenne ; at St. Lucia, the Carenage ; Fort
Louis ; the lfle of France, Fort Louis ; at Bourbon,
St. Dennis.
2d. That in Martinico, Guadaloupe, the I fie of
France and Bourbon, there shall be appointed in the
parijhfs, one deputy jor every yo a (live citizens ; in
Cayenne and Guiana, one for every 2 J ; in St. Lucia,
one for every 20; in Tobago, one for every 10, ob
frrving the fame regulations at at St. Domingo, for
the fraiiional numbers, andfor thep.irifbes which have
not the number of citizens mentioned.
3d. That in the i*Jlrn{iionj fr>it t<r these colonies,
there fhatl be fupprejfed in the firjl article, what con
cerns the provincial jiffemblies, provided none exijl
tut at St. Domingo.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
•" ' y
THIS day the Count tie Mirabeau piapofed ti
he Aflt-inbly an amendment of one of the articles
A' the decree on the right of making peace and
tvar, -viz. " That no treaties that lhould be at
my time entered into with foreign powers, whe
ther of commerce or alliance, lhould be valid, till
ratified by the National Aflembly." This amend
ment was agreed to. He then proposed an ad
ditional article, viz. " That all treaties, or con
ventions, that had been entered into with foreign
powers in the King's name, down to the present
time, IhalJbe examined by a special Committee,
chosen by the Aflembly, who lhall, previous to
the end of the present session, make a report
thereon, to the end, that the Aflembly may de
termine which of them ought to be ratified, and
to what extent they ought to continue in force-
This article meeting with general disapprobation,
M. de Mirabeau consented to withdraw it, and
the question was adjourned.
Two letters were then read from the Munici
pality of Montauban, stating that tranquility
was restored in that city, that the National
guard was new modelled, and that the Protestants
forgetting their difaflers, were intent on contri
buting tothe happiness of the people. The Mu
nicipality eypreilcJ r- «t«. ...btj-*
on the bad consequences offending a detachment
of the militia of Bordeaux to Montauban, and re
quelled the Aflembly to coiilider the subject, and
make a new decree. The two letters were or
dered to the Committee ofßrports.
PROVIDENCE, JULY 24.
Last Saturday afternoon we had loine rain
here, attended with sharp lightning. The wind
blew heavy in the bay, ana one vefiel was in
danger of fouoderingat her anchors. The lloop
Venus, of Norwich, bound from hence to New
port, came to anchor under Warwick neck, and
was afterwards ftrnck by a fla/h of lightning,
that tore off several feet of her mast, which, with
the rigging, went overboard ; the remainder of
the malt was ffiivCred, the splinters flying to a
cooliderable diltance, and several buts above wa
ter were started, but providentially none of the
people were injured. She was next day towed
into Newport.
A correspondent at Rehoboth informs, that in
the thunder-storm on Saturday afternoon the
lightning struck a row of button-wood trees, in
to which vails had been let for fence, within
three rods of the house of Dr. Samuel Allen,
and ran from tree to tree upon the fence, shiv
ering the rails, throwing fpliiuers many rods in
all directions, and ploughing the ground in se
veral places. Its effects were discoverable on 13
of the trees. Five men that had been reaping,
and who were within a few rods of the place, as
nlfo the people in the honfe, Iclt a Considerable
{hock, but happily no person wis Hurt.
An excellent niachinefarclearingdocks, deep
ening the beds of rivers, &c. on a most ingeni
ous model, has been conftrufted here, and is
jiow in operation.—
BOSTON, JULY 28.
Extraof a !ett:r from the Right. Hon. Viscount
de PONTEVES, to M. de LETOMBE, dated
cu board //;; Illuftre, Fort Royal, June 24th.
" I HAVE the honor to fend you duplicates ef
the papers inclosed in my dispatches of the 17th
—Eighty of the banditti have been taken up
— several of whom will probably be severely pu
niflied here, and tiie others sent to France. The
Mulattoes have been relcafed-—eight only re
main now in jail.
" Ihe Colonial General Aflembly conflicted
directly in conformity to the decree of the Nati
onal Aflembly, will re-unite and accomplish the
Jieceflary measures to secure a durable tranquili
ty, whirh is the only means favorable to com
merce."
NOTE
MonJ.i-
May 24.
THE TABLET No. CXXXVII.
" Uis impoffiblc to love a seCond time the thing that we have once truly
ceajed to love."
WITHOUT examining whether this maxim be true in all
cases, 1 will A:left a few in wiii'ch its tiuth can
not be queflioned. I believe it will beconfeffed that a man, who
has dace loft his attachment to his country, cannot afterwards
view it with any degree of complaccncy. That men do not love
their country from any abftratt reasoning about its merit, appears
from this circumitance, that the inhabitants of the worit country
in the world may be ardently attached to it; and those of the belt
country may be violently averse to it. The mod powerful and
univertal cauie of love to any country, is, a residence in it, at that
period ot liic whtuftrft impreflionsare formed, and when the force
of example is strong and irrefutable. Such a glow ot affc&ion
may be excited in favor of a local situation, that it will require an
extraordinary incident to eradicate it. The difficulty of destroy
ing this attachment conftuutes the difficulty of reviving it. The
foul cannot cafily torget the agitation it mnft have been thrown
into, by so violent a cause, as that whjch can extinguish the love
of country. A man, who from an inherent perverfenefs of heart,
becomes a traitor to his country, must ot courfc lose his love of
»t r because being perpetually-conscious that he is hated, ana de
fervts to be so, his own feelings must acquire a congenial cast. In
like manner, a perfoij >#ho fertoudy believes, he has received some
flagrant injury front l>if country, may be so irritated by a sense of
Ins wrongs, that his totally absorbs every delightful
(en fa lion in its favor. iHis former aftVdlions become transformed
into hatred and revenge and he can never enjoy any impulses of
pairiotifm afterward.
I It isan observation no less true than common, that the mod
violent and lasting disputes exist among those who were once in
I habits of the ftri&eft intimacy and triendfhip. When friends
fcrioufly difagrec, it can only result from some circuinftance caJ
culatec to excite so high a degree of provocation as cannot easily
be forgotten. Family quarrels are, of all others, fiie moil bitter
and unrelenting. There may be a fulpenfion (of friendfhip upon
lome flight causes of disagreement, but this is very different from
those severe and deep-rooted enmities, which create in the heart
sentiments of real difgufi and malevolence. Thcfe Once formed
in the breaftsof persons, who have formerly been on a footing of
cofdial esteem and good wilj, will perhaps never be eradicated.
I he maxim contained in the motto may therefore be true as it ap
plies to a friend ; that we can never love bim a second time, whom
we have once truly ceased to love. This view of the iubje& ftiould
induce us to guard againlt chtrifhing any causes of diiguft either
againlf our friends or our country ; for it is a moil melancholy,
as well as a most difgraceful circumstance to have a heart in which
the fentimerits of patriotism or friendfhip delight not to dwell.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY, JULY 23.
Dcbals on the Anicn4m:nt of the Senate to the Fund
ing lit//, to afume a part of the State Debts.
Mr. Jackson.
The second argument of the genile.nan is, that kmr States
have taken upou themfelvcs greater Sums than then/ propyl
tions or abilities to pay.
This, Sii, I think dubious, nor can it be ascertained but bv a
settlement of accounts, which alone can determine. But Sir
let us examine on the principles of equity, the claims of the two'
States which complain the motl, Massachusetts and South-Caro
lina. The forni.-r has, it is fmd, greatly 7 exceeded her quotn. The
fair method to jud ;e of this, is to compare her exertions during
the war with her ability. This foiid principle of judging, has
been loft fight of, although contended for, when the bill tor the
settlement of accounts was before the house. At the commence
ment of the war there is no doubt but the citizens of Massachu
setts in and near Bolton, fullered cor.Gderabiy ; but from the eva
cuation of that city to the end of the war, the felt the advantages
rather than the difadv linages of war—She carried on the medium
of commerce for the Union—her merchants and her country of
cotirfe were enriched—ihe became enabled therefore to make
greater c xertions, and no doubt did her part. Contrail this with
some others of the Slat's—overrun by the enemy houl'es and
plantations destroyed—commerce arretted—merchants and citi
zens totally ruined, and the mod opulent families beggaied. I
will leave to the ger.tltfmen from Malfachufeus themftlves—l will
appeal to their candot to determine tf their debt was double the
amount, which was thp better fate.
South-Carolina I shall however be told is on the other scale
and in a great mcafure, I will grant it.
The <: .faculties of that State have been great—the merits of her
citizens many, and her fufferings out of proportion with mot!
hut not all of the States. North-Carolina and New-Jerky fuf'
tcred nearly as much, and Georgia more. A great proportion of
the wealth of South-Carolina was preserved by persons who took
proteaion, or who resided in Europe the greatefl part of the war
—this was not the cafe with Ceorgia, her ci'izens were totally
beggared, and her country left a wild uninhabited defart ■ few of
those who took proteflion remaining. That wealth preserved
lett South-Carolina yet in a State of arllucnce- the would in the'
former Congrtfs have felt hcrfclf infultcd >1 the had beru consider
ed second in refourcc » any State in the Union. She is as -reat
now inrefource, and I btlicve that I speak wiih iuftire wVn I
advance that of the back inhabitants of that Sta c are
oppof.d to the meafcre Sir, they are republicans who hav.
fougi t and bled for the cause ot liberty, and know the value ol ,t
I know and regard them, such, and although I wish not to wound
the feelings of any gentleman prefer,t, I assert that they will fee
through this thin veiled artifice to take their poruon of Statepow
er from them, and they will feci that continual drain ol foecie
which muftt,kc place to fatisfy the appetites ot balking fmcula
tors at the feat of government.
The 3 cl. argument is t hat the funds out of which those debts
ought to be paid, are by the conftuution put under the direftuih
of the federal eovernmem, and this done by the people for the
express purpose of paying the debts of the United States ot which
tnele are a part#
' • T <?'V' r P men s ' S ' g,eat mea^ure done away—Conjrrefs have
i'sfak-n '.nrf X .h- " "J"* im p'°pct—■ ttrc impost alone
is tak.n, and this .s not grumbled at—the States gave it years a
;o when the payment 0 r State debts was not thought of tL
TbTs ft n, 'f' haSrCfl ' r,Cdto d ° CS r<- include the State
dbts the impost of s per cent, was required from the States for
the payment of the real debt of the Uu.on-fuppofe all the "J-el
olTebts ? thatraeaC " rC ' W ° Uld ' hc V noc ftiS have paid ,tu
The 4th argument that irrpofis and can V,,. k\n .J ,
tncier one f a , ls the
I hope ine hourc have no intention of briawincr-.h-m ') *,
,;n r , that Congrtfs will n,t be
•0..C. tnem in K.tct whiiu-h -prnly tti f aVOJr 4mea^"
546
The - sth argument of»the gentleman if it is notTully refuted
my reply to his firft and second, can be easily accomplifhcd.
It is, that equal jultice ought to be done to all the creditors, buc
this cannot be done by individual States ; Come of them bcin r un
able to make provifiow ; burthened beyond their quju, ana de
prived of former revenues.
By the prtfent mode, the argument is defeated, for the credit
ors are not on a footing—the whole .is not alfumed—j proportion
will therefore still be left to the mercy of the States, which ma/
be as backward in their payments now, as formerly. Without
the alfumption at all, the diftin&ion was not hard to be borne.
Jlt was to be borne. It was only b tween the Slate creditors and
those of the Union. At present, the diftin£tion is between the
lame State creditors—those who will benefit are the speculators
rtear the feat of government, and those near the commiflioncrs -
| whilst thole at a distance and who in moil probability arc the on-,
i ly original holders, will not be benefited. The creditors of one
State are not even on a footing with those of another. Maflachu
! setts, South and North-Carolina, have the one half of 21,000,000
allotei them the two former havt? near their whole debt. I
will call on gentlemen to know if any within this house, can/up
pofe they have a ballance of 10,000,000 due them ? The amount
of the debt of Georgia is more than was supposed, it amounts to
ftven hundred thoulaud dollar*—three hundred ihoufand of which
are onlv to be aflumed. If the measure is wile, the whole
lo be assumed.
I am not for this partial method—either the assumption ought
to be proportioned Co the rtprcft .Ation, or gem-rally, or
certificates ought to issue to the States for what they have funk as
to individuals.
Thf 6th argument is, that the measure is founded in good po
licy, as well as justice, as it will promote harmony amonj credit
ors and d.ffercnt States, attach them to the government and facil
itate operations.
That it is not founded in justice I think has been pretty well
fhewn—lts policy was clearly proved at a former day, to have
been a consolidation of the government ; and Sir, I believe with
it a consolidation of the people's liberties.—The object certainly
was the absorbing the whole of the Slate powers within the vor
tex ol the all devouring general government—seven years were we
[fighting to establish props for liberty, and in leli than two years,
finer the adoption of the conftitntion, arc we trying to k.ck them
all -away, and he is the ablest politician and the be ft man of the
day, who can do 1110 ft to deilroy the child of liberty ot his own
ratfing. A friend Sir, to ihe Slate governments, or the liberties
of the people, is as much loft at the present day, as if he had be
onged to the last century, and had a refurre&ioa in the present
°" C
Sir, il so much of this patriotlfra is loft near the feat of go
vernment, let us not fuppofe-it is the cafe with the whole of the
United Slates—The Slates will not tamely submit to a nuafure cal
culated todiftrefs, and manifeftly founded in injjifticeand the ru
in of the State governments.—So far will it be fiom producing the
harmony the gentleman has supposed, that I thinii I cai. venture
to prophesy, it will occafjon discord and generate rancour againlt
the Union. For it it brucfits inn patt of the United Sta-es, it op
press another. If it lulls the Shayfes of the north, u will route
the Sullivans ofthefouth. (To be ccntinaci.)
MONDAY, AUGUST 2
MR. GILMAN of the joint committee for en
rolled bills reported, that the committee had
examined and found duly enrolled the follow
ing bills—
i. "An A<ft to provide more effe<flual)y for the
collection of the duties imposed by lawi/ifgoods,
wares and merchaixtjLtr imported into the Uni-
the tonnage of (hips or veflels "
7 A " f° r r,lL ~ relief of John Stewart,
and John Davidfon."
5. " An Art to continue in force for a limited
eut ' tlei '> A A for the temporary
eltabhfhment of the Poft-Office."
4- " An Art making provision for the debt of
the United States."
The above were then signed by the Speaker—
and afterwards prefen»:ed to the President of the
United States for his approbation.
The Report of the Secretary at War on the
petition of Lady Stirling, was read the second
time, and agreed to.
The following Resolution was then parted, viz.
A efolved, 1 hat there be paid to Sa; ah Stirling,
the widow of the late Major General Lord Stn -
nig, the sum ot iix thoui ,nd nine hundred and
seventy-two dollars, being the half pay of a Ma
joi-General in ihe late American Ariny for the
term of seven years.
Mr. Boudinot, Mr. Thatcher, and Mr. A(he r
were appointed a committee to brine; iu a bill for
jhe purpose.
Mr. Jackson gave notice that he fliould to-mor
iow move lor leave to bring in a bill to provide
sOl the aliumption of three hundred thousand
dollars State debt, on account of the State ofGeor
gia, in addition to the sum in the Funding Bill.
Mr. Ames moved that a committee be appoint
ed to bring in a bill to declare the consent of Con
go's to an Act of the State ofßhode-Ifland, pass
ed before the adoption of the Coaftitutionbv that
State, laying a duty on Tonnage for the purpose
or enabling an incorporated compaify to improve
the navigation of Providenceßiver.
Mr. Smith, (M.) observed, that the provision
ought to be general—There are, said he, several
other rivers in States that have incorporated com
panies for the purpose of improving the naviga
-1011 of those rivers. He mentioned the Pot>w
nac, and Petapfco rivers.
After some debate the motion vras amended I®
adding Savanna river in Georgia, and Petapfto
river in Maryland—and then a committee was
appointed, confuting of Mr., Ames, Mr. Jackfoir, *
and Mr. Seney, to bring in a bill.
The Speaker introduced a letter from the Tre»-
fiuer of the United States, eudofini his account*
for the lalt quarter.
The report of the committee on the petition »£
Henry Emanuel Lutterloh, was taken into cob
fiderarion. The report being in favor of the
i-itioner, considerable debate eufued. The report
was finally negatived'.
Mr. Parker gave notice that lie should to-mar-i o w move for leave to faring in a bill to enable the
Stales of Virginia and North-Carolina, to open
an interior navigation between those States by
•utting a navigable canal.
Mr. Smith laid two resolutions 011 the table
refpeding the disposal of lands in the Western
i erritory,during the recess of Congress.
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, AUGUST 3.
Several petitions wcTe read.
motio.l for leate to bring in a bill authorizing the
tesof \ irginia and North-Carolina to open an inland naviga
tion bet ween those States, was taken into consideration.
ConGderable debate ensued refpeaing the proprietyofConorefs'
interfering in a this kind ; a committee vvjs finally
pointed to bring in a bill, confiding of Mr. Burke, Mr. Parker
Mr. Williamfon, Mr. Steele and Mr. Wadfworth
Mr. Jackson (agreeable to notice given) moved that a committee
be appointed to bang m a bill making further provif, for the
debts of the United States, so tar as refpefh the debt, of the State
of Georgia , this motion after some debate, was agreed to, and a
commitee appointed. anaa
Mr Ames reported a b;ll declaring the alTentof Congress to cer
tain a its of the State, ot Rhode-Island, Maryland and Georgu,,
d 7°" '°"" dgr ° f fl "P sor veffel S , enter,nglhe
ports of Provident. Petaplco and Savai na ;ik bill a f (t . r f omt .
amendments, and going through the cuftom.ry forms, was or
dered to be engrolfed for a third readin
™',""
Mr. Madison laid a motion on the table for appointing a com
mitteeto bring in a bill for adding t wo Commiffionerj to'the pre
sent board, appointed to lettle che accounts betweni the United
States and individual States. A.ljourtud. UnKe "
ERRATA.
S sil e e h ' nOUr ?th patagraph, for
i : Blh P a «g"ph, inftrad of Ncw-Hampftirr
and Georgia ought to receive, if a just S uota was allowed as the
f/a ii.ft «' r " d .. Ntw j Ha,n P (h >re and Georgia oa ? htto' receive
Jl olT? n " T I' tnrec flx, y- fifth pa»s of 2i,000,0c0
--99»>3°7 dollars each ; gih paragraph, instead of " if state debts
thenatc ought to pay the debts, /c " rea j if n„, j„i„ „
ought ,0 pay th. d P cL of other'su; '
lor «' argument" read arguments. ° * ' '
Advices by the Packet ChefterfieU.
NAMUR, May 24.
YES'rERDAY our troops, to the number of
6000, divided into three columns, the firlt
comm'nded bythe Count de Lanoy, the second
5h ,>f? Daln > and the third by General de
W « ' n | a r jan actack u P on the Auftrians,
5 e routed, one column after
nition ih W1 c a° fS j f 14 cannon > their ammu
nition, above 800 ft and of arms, carriages of eve
ry kind, and iome cheits. They thisjday return
'. ° C a:ta ' dlv,ded i»»t° three columns, and
were again routed, with the loft of one fix poun
cheFnrr " a, V° ner ? iece ofa fina,ler bore. Ro
chefort is full of our killed, who, with the
wounded, are reckonedSoo, 82 take,, p,if
oners. Ihe Auttrians in the affair yefterelay liad
four men and one horse killed, and this day'they
ad, according to the accounts we have received
five men killed,/ and 16 wounded.
LONDON, June 1.
A private letter from Stockholm, of the 7th
instant, mentions, that Baron Hamilton had lull
arrived in that city, with the important intel
th ft /v Ge ", eral Armfeldt, who commanded
the post of karnakofki, having been attacked on
the 20th ult, by a large body of Ruffians com
fnirlr'l / r Gene,al Igelttraiu, had made so
J"Y p * j nC ? ChaC iie beat back the enemy,
who left 200 dead on the field. The King being
fWmTI °i r atta , ck 0,1 Gene,al Armfeldr,
ft I , gn t0 dislod g e Ruffians from
e pott they then held. Accordingly, his Majesty
n conference of this resolution, put liimfelfat
rhe head ofmne battalions of infantry, and two
iquadrous of horse, and attacked the enemy with
the greatest impetuosity. The victory was
warmly contorted, and remained indecisive for
four hours but at last the Ruffians .gave way
when, they few General Denifaw, their command'
braverv Vi T, ft*"^ sou 8 ht with the greatest
y, ut lort anuniber of men, and many pri-
K WfT - ake,, V The a,ne letter adds, that^he
times ivJfl" 11 ' 810 the g reate " hardlhips, and fome
of any kind neai ) fl° llo " !S w >thout nourishment
isnffo <VI ' k l epS ln a tenton the graft- It
take tll t0 3 doubr » that the King will
lies now " mn,a ." d ' ln of «he fleet of gal
ncs now preparing. 1
coJfirtth/f™ Conftantin °Ple of a late date
Grand V 7" T aCC ° U ' US ° f thc d " th the
Th n I'r e venerable Haffan Pacha —
This old and faithful miniiter of the Forte is
fa,d ,o have fallen a facrifice to the intrigues of
£ a S ,OWre^ Ued tu ■-veanCeiny
to their meafurcs at the head of tbeir armv —
S C a ffSn of "f Ibdd1 bdd Hamet > ,oved hi '»
rlf.rU 3 facher » and on the news of his
it is laid, to have followed his advice had lie
ved, an d entered into a treaty for the re'-efta!
bhihment of peace. But the majority of the Di
viei?ed n to Vie' Wa > °f thinking, he has
Jielced to tiieir opinion ; and orders htve been
rig" r '»« »« WW, .he «, no fl
JtfNE 3.
\ eftcrday the House of Lords proceeded far
llier on the iVia, of Warren Haftbgs, fit
t0 0t affain in Weft »infter Hall on
, SxtrACi of a letter from Vienna, May rg)
A courier arrived by express in this capital
? d , 17 " wuh di (patches from the Court
o» Berlin—A Cabinet Council was in confe
rw" I,n " ,cd i ate 'y "'led, and from the orders
that we underpaid have been since sent to Mar/ha]
Laudohn it is the prevailing opinion here, that
rupture between the two powers is inevitable.
As to the war with Turks, we are prepa
ing for a vigorous campaign. The Prince tif
Cobourg is at the head of the army appointed to
act against VVidin ; and he has alread v caused tern
porary bridges to be conftrucfled over the Danube
w?h w*ni ■° 25?- ° pen the c °mn,unication
AitLr hAI ?' lh,rt; y-two vertels have been
dilpatthed by the commander in chief at Belgrade
a en with artillery and ammunition, to ailiit in
this undertaking.
It appears that two hundred persons loft their
lives when thegrandmagazine, belonging to the
Auftnans lately blew up at Cladova, and that
Widiu h; ' S la / ed bombardment of
. JUKE 5-
During tne present fitu«lion of affairs between EnMan 1 rmH
e P a S r 200d C .n r h kCrs ' UVe 'Tu " WOr "' " ,clr " t " lc » expnd
,3d King ' S birth day ' Hi » Majesty entered ti,
mL C i r t y amoT t t he a i CCO,,ntS j™* bcenrc « ived ofthe disposition so
uinult among the lowei ...ders o( the people of Ireland TI.
mfmelsof the tyilies seems to be the moll obnoxious
-ecre o urv o '"&»% 9 f r " 'k" C«»"t Schuleubcrg de Blumherp
,h He^a
ut hT/bJain," ' n ' be,n? t0 3pp " r at Potzdj "'. blev
a7on C Ia, P I r 'n llJls ' i "" fufin f quarter to toe Patriots after the lat
halar'omewTord P ' ' athcr from '"imed.ate refentmen
if.. .V, ' P , orders > Or any permanent intention ot cruelty
Vf.er the example of ibe unfuccefsful barbarities of Philip the fe
ond a fld the Duke „f Alva, committed in an age when fucl
s excited Uls abhorrence than at present, Leopold inul
<ave loft all feme of interest and use of history, if he has eco3
0 CI uelty as an inftriuntm of wai*. 7 rf
Vutkland 5 ou7a"k ma >' bf rclied that Lor.
" d, our Ambassador extraordinary and minister nlen-no
eiit.ary at the Hague, has f.gh.fied to their high mHitinetfs '?h
ratability of our requiring the fucconrs stipulated for in the de
har «£ ty WrC " lhc tW ° roumr '". a " d received for J i.fwc,
hat they should he granted as soon as demanded.
I lie mod vigorous preparations are makino for a fecrete*neHi
«0O the Spanifk mam. direttly that anv lo.favoraMe or eou,
calanfwer is received from the court of Madrid : fix renme.it
nediaie e X J" l'"'" COm | p,n " sos artillery, are preparing im
'--v.- ,rc..„ 111, c ,; av „ v 0
M P»- T' 1 c n gate and two lire (hips.
Mr. Pitts demands on the court of Spain for the late t,
u commerce and the infi.lt to the British Hag. are fa.d to be,
2' A full fc« r 'em mrorhetngmh in NootKa Sound
%-.he ,hc ' ncidmal cxpcn - cs
3- The full payment of the Manilla ransom in the war 1 ,60 I
"i1'1mr.,.,1 The whole to be fiqu.dated ,n three yelrs ' ' b
Admiral Barr.ngton left town yeiterday morn.na- to take >h
« Portsmouth, whi/h confi^ffcventee,
day. ' 3nd " ' S fatd will proceed to sea th,
filverto be contraband, as it is a jn ew %( dcdarcd
!
in the ports of Greaußritain °"
rrivate accounts by the Packet Hale. That the (him of r
Britain now eqaipped and rc»Av for f-, P 1 Great
tu . i nana ready t°r lea amouru to sixty fail nf
aiS S: —^
»i s aatttt SfcSt %ssSKtft2f'
five and .Tcfcufive ° f advama S eous tera " for an alliance offen-'
x , HUNGARY.
kingdom ln fluenza of Europe pervades the provinces of this
U eTefllve aVe ' h " r P°P U '" «H»« the Crown
' d' "° objCa ' On l ° Choose L ™P°>d for .heir Cove
" And finally, that the ftandine armv rorf# „(•„,. 1
Left this political ferment should subs.de "tofr!l°£ PS '
r ■ S
thC m 0 °f'dependenceTndlZxTc"-"
THE EMPEROR OF MOROCCO
indeed 14 no more ; but he did nnr A' b r utal Monarch
death. , not dlc an ""natural orviolcm
°s^ llthof Apfil 31 about 4 o'clock in the after-
NEW-YORK, AUGUST a.
Amrri!°/n Inter "a f" IMc " tC of the
I cannot be sorry that I ZJ" f " end h Y*~
by the pub],cation of Mr. Tc/cot'slmr 0 " f ° r 'I ( "" Drfence >
publication I was inti.ely ignorart that M 'a" tl,nc of lhi »
ed any opinion with rcipea to the fp * M 1 h,d deilvfi-
Tukcot's letter, to JZ,he hJobfc&S V"hf M ''
,s to America, and >u some of them 11 Wt " fcver 'l
mention thi, publication, and to , y ,h a , ? ' tdKen . occ » f >™ to
0 "> that I am couvtnccd of the
547
main point which it is intended to prove ■ and th., , „
inserted a note to (igmfy the differ,nee of '0p,.,, b L 5
Turcot and me on that point. Thefubieftof '1Z""" ' M
next to religion, is of the highell importance
now I believe, better understood than wer , t was !. Mu f • "
defence will furnifh a help towards fanhei im, ■ Ad ' U!
the United States will I hope, give such a,, examp'e'^h- 1 '
piovement as will be ufeful to the world P Lll,s
Tkefollomng accompanied the "A3 mzVing further brcmiC /
Mas the United States," a* amende Jby the Senate an </ "
si r,"lt ° f R P r 'S ent "t"'" yeflerday. ' ~ f n "» ■ ■
ts 1 iMATE of annual Intcreft to be immediately pa,d on ,k
gmal Debt of the United State, P ,heot
On the Principal of the liquidated ) l ''* Dilldr >- Os
dept, J 383.917 70
On ihe Specic Value of oftliquida- > „
ted debt, ukeu at c 800,000
28,.83,917 7°
On the Intcrcft to the End of the ) 4P ' 1,127 '3i 5
prcfciit Year, including indents, \
At 3 pr. cent. 390,905 0 .
Dollars, t, 5 ,8 12 6:
Interefl on the Foreign Debt for
Estimate lor the current Scrvice J4 2 'i99 t
1 000,000
OoUart, 2,663,8677,
WAYS AND MEANS. ' ; ==-~
Efti mated of the present Dutiej,
. NCREA SEofDuTizs, viz
i ,000,ooS Gallons of Wine, mean incrcafe 11 Cents
4,000,000 do. diftillcd Spirits, ditto ' '
2,000,000 lbs. Tea, , , |
1,600,000 lbs. Coffee, ,
12,000,000 ibc. Sugar,
260,000 lbs. Pepper, *
540,000 lbs. Pimento,
1,500,000 Buihels ofSalt,
6,000,000 Gallons of Molaflbs,
Increafc iti ad valorem rates,
Expence of Colle£iion and Dnwbacks, $ pr . cent.
Dollars,
M ./, W, <W g fA 7»„,, /r „ W Lnien> (0
it A at y-
evL / freedom ,s rich-it produces bow
ever among a variety of excellent plants, (hi
f the lankeit weeds ln creation—These fo-ne
titnes flourifh to the deftrudtion of the generous
a±l:r , i^ n ™" oi, - a,,dwh ™W«»
"hor ' r noll ' hr S but briars and
| ujoius arc found therein.
mankind an ih h ° no^, ai ' e rarc l ual 'tie S among
mankind : What with the different ideas men
roZ-Z° £ the * local biafles of
princio c in' 0 // r eS of others—and the felfilh
principle in all—\ Q extremely difficult is it for
flative -° felecfltl,e best characters for le-i
---f apponitments, that the business is reduced
(he 1,1 Whkh cx P er ' e 'ice too often
shews that there are more blanks than nriz-s
attheExcS a s n t, ih SUPr f eme p°r ,t of thc Unucd Su,i ' s mct
7a v associate i* J "*■*<"«. his honor Chid Justice
John ,/T," 7 "" U1 djki ,r,
l 0!" 1 V """SU<\- of the State of Del.-
•dmitted Counfdl ' f"u * ° State cj Connecticut, were
amitted Councilors o( the Supreme Court of the United States.
err i nc-r . advertisement.
Lp' WeCn pol " jra T " rm dnd lhe »««>* I".of
ifSwlll wV TUE Sf ""A«v or th t Tkea.ukt,
ceivc the thank- <f I vei wl " return it to the Owners (h-ill re-
N 3 The drf, H COUnt , ry -, PUIiUC CREDIT.
tobeth- cne ad' r' U - B °° k ' sent ljft weck - ''"PP" fcl
to dc tiK one advertized, isnot the work in quellion.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YOR}'
Sioop Federal-Hall, Pasture Norfolk a
f 'g Peggy, Clay, Aux-Caves, 22 '
—Edward rt,t Th C ' f™ 1 "- St - Tho mas . „
su "™'. Jhomion, Shelburne, 7
~ J P P -cket, Shaw. RhoHr-1 ,
NEW-YORK-CITY-LOTTjiRY.
I City of Ntw-Yori, ff
* C ° MMON Mdon MM,y thc /W(& . *
present » w- 1 79®; , .
.w rr'His.T
T „, ~ „ , ASSISTANTS.
J ku",
There/ore, ' dn,Wln 8 "weof flull have commeaced:
Tifke^rr!he T d, a a",L M s?h ge r rS ° f th ® Lotter y <*» ■><>' WUny
The Hnarrl v l^e Lottery shall commence. • ,
fold by the uimTtnifth* rer °' vcd that Tickets Hull be'
Have commuted and the oltcr y aftcr ,'h* drawing thereof (hill
gets, thatthere ar'e ihll ' nlorme < i 'he. Mana
manyof the Citizens and or h re , ma ' nln g on hand, andthrt
-purcfeafe k u Qtheis have thisday applied to tfaeoitg
fng of the Louerv "L d A°"? Ae " " hich ?
able toluDolv aH if., a I 10 COll ""ence, they have not been .
give thofc w!» wilt» J* Cin '' :IN ORDER
t«)ntng Tickets " ° Adventurers au opportuaity of «b
---til Thurfdlvnr^* 1 '^ C drawing of the Lottery be postponed 110-
in/po& i, ' " tCn ° clock iath ' foten«oa,and (hatthedrtw
be fold X COmmcnce ° n da y: which, poTickctt .
Extraftfrom the minutes,
ROBERT BENSON, CkrL
,)
Dollars.
1,800,00©
IIO.OOC
200,000
1 20,001'
24,00,1
1 IC,QO«>
10,400
i6,s<
4
3
£
i
#>/**>
2jO,OC<
2,)<>0,60$
*38.03*
.»'• 'Dover, (Ne w-Hamphire.)
Among the numerous writs which came before the Inferior Court, which
teas opened at the Court-lUufe in this town on Tuesday lafl, there was
one with the following return on the back: —
BY virtue hereof I've taken poor Hill,
Who to pay the demand has both flomachand will;
But fails in ability—Cash lie has none,
And cursedly plagu'd with the gravel and itonc .
If to goal he must go, his joints, nerves and marrow
Must move flowlv on, in a coach or w'neeloarrow ;
For on a Car-horse he can't poffibl) ride,
So feeble his limbs, such a flitch in hisfidc—
Your Sheriff thus mak.es his return, and he thinks
'Tistrue,every tittle, witness Sim Jenxs.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
CURIOUS SPRING.
MR. FF.NNO,
Ifhould be gratified by the ixftrtim of the following, if feme of your plii
lofophic readers would furnifh a solution of the phenomenon.
\ D lOINING Soutli 1 iver( which empties inio theßar' tonjthere
XV is a spring of water from which a family is plentifully suppli
ed for conflant°ufe atall fcafons of the year ; even in thedriefttimes
a (mall stream issues from the fpring,'excepting when the wind
continues to blow from the North-Weft, for more than two days
lucceflively, when the water (lops running—and if laded out, the
spring (or rather the calk lufcrted -1 the ground) will remain
emptv until the wind chartgcs fiom that dioe£lion—when it again
becomes jail and flows out as before, although the weather con
tinu-s fair all ihe time. It is lituated not more than t& or « 00
yards from the river, and is very Utile elevated above the furiace
of the water in the river, perhaps four or five feet (by estimation.)
It is in a frnall valley or gully, vet not in the lowest part ; the
ground to the Weft and North-Weft rises gradually to J conftder
able height. From some reservoir in the adjacent hiu* it
iuppof-d the Tprinc; receives its supply ; that the North-Weft
winds Ihould have such an effect as to (lop that supply alter two
days continuance and not until then, appears to me extraordina
ry • many springs are known to ebb and flow regularly, but I dt»
not recolfeft any account of one similarly affe£led ; 1 hope , t will
ari eft some attention from those who have accuflomed thrmfelves
to contemplate the works of nature, and examine with fcrut.ni*
inj attention, when any thing occurs different (rom what we are
generally accustomed to meet with. A. S.
New- Jersey, July "4> 'TP 0 '
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE STATES.
MS. FENNO,
AS I live near 300 miles from the feat of government, in this
part of the country we depend upon your Gazette, for in
formation refpefling our national government.
The Funding Bill, as reported in committee of the Senate, ap
pears to everyone in this quarter to be, in one particular at lead,
extremely wrong, viz.—rating interrji below principal. We think
it violates all the%ftablilhcd principlesof equity, and the common
fenfc of mankind.
id. It has ever been eonfidered that intered was at lead as good
as principal, in all pablic and private contrasts and ncgociations ;
and in cases where the intered was not duly paid, v as in the pre
sent cale), justice required compensation for fucli delay of pay
ment. 2d. Going upon the universal principle of mankind, ina-
Tiy foldierr, and others, being under the neceflity of felling fom
of their securities, they fold principal ; supposing, if government
made any provision for payment, it would firflbe for the inter, ft ;
and they were confirmed in this belief, by the t&xcj whith Con
crefs required to be paid in Indents. 3d. Foreign purchases, have
been of the principal, therefore the bill is calculated to •enrich fo
reigners by injnrin r our people —and in violation of all the fit '-
biifhed maxims of juftice—confequeii'.ly the government would be
eonfidered as capricious, and must fink in the ejlimation of wife
men, at home and abroad, 4th. If the revenue is not equal to the
wants of government, let equal justice be done, and the wife and
good through the world, will juftify our mcafurcs —but such par.
iiality mult inevitably destroy our national charaft<-r. s th. The
rrnort of the Secretary met with the approbation of the people,
as'it was calculated to do equal justice, pnd conformable to the
date of our country—(and it is th- general opinion through eight
of the dates, where I have travelled within two months pall, that
if the Secretary's report had been adopted five months ago, the
advantages to the United State* by this time, would have been
million", as thereby the fecuritics would have risen, and the vast
sums Burchafcd by foreigner , would have brought so much more
money into the country). 6.h. Eveiy debt, due in money, whe
tbn for I'upplies, pel foual Cervices, for intend, or tor any thing
else, where the faith of government has been pi dged, or juflice
and honor requires payment, is eonfidered by all impartial men
as equal -and whenever government fund or pay their debts,
(here can be no diftinaion. These arc the prevailing sentiments
of the people of eery class, and thev are undoubtedly founded
in the reason of things, consequently ought never to be departed
from. .
We thitfk, Mr. Printer, it is neceffjry that the opinion ot com-
Tnon people, tar from the feat of govcrnmrn!, Oiould be pub'.ifoed
as well as the feotinunts of the learned in the great cities ; for
good rulers with to know the Centiments of the people and when
government proceeds upon r»ne plain and eqoal feale, the people
can ke the line of jail lcc, and wiiHove au/t support the govern
ment. But ifone man's certiorate for money dueto him from the
public, is made more valuable than another man's, tor ?.b equal
sum, wh.o can think, it right ? A SOLDIER.
Extra fr of a /filer from Corlfinr.li/iop/e, Feb. 20.
"The discouragement afidsjloom folately pre
valent here, has now given way to the spirit of j
a<ffive preparation and bustle. The cause is the
new alliance formed by the Porte with Pruflia.
The iniidiiltrwn now entertain the most fatignine
lopes that the aTiftance of Pruflia will enable
them to repair the lodes fuffered in the late cam
paign with Ruflia a.d Auftrja. The thirst of
battle fully pofiefles the Mahometans : Abun
dance of recruits flock in everyday, and are im
mediately drafted off to some particular deflina
tion. The Minifby do not fail t<- profit by this
appearance of zeal and ardour among the peo
pie : Nor are the common people only eager to
teflify their zeal ; fcvcral opulent individuals
have made offer: ot logrcat presents to the Sultan,
as to enable him to defray the expenccs of the
•war. These, however, the Sultan refnfed ; al
ledpiifg that he does not want tor them, and that
his refourtfes are fhfficient for the war ; a third
campaign, therefore, is inevitable.
The ?mnd Swedi.'h fleet is at fca, and was fpo-
LONDON.
ken with by several Ihips off Bornholm, an die 3d
instant. It consists of 25 fail of the line, 15 fri
gates, and a prodigious number of other armed
veflels.
Dr. Franklin recommends, in one of his let |
ters, what he calls " Air Bathing," or riling ear
ly in the morning and fitting without clothes,
half an hour, or an hour, accordingto the iealon.
In confirmation of the Dr's idea, is daily exper
ience, for no disadvantage Icarcely ever follows
from leaving off a thick garment and putting on
a thin one, provided it is done in the morning.
A correspondent who has pradt'.fecl on the Dr s
plan recommends it to thole invalids who have
found the shock from fea-batbing too severe for
them. ___
FOR SALE
The IRON WORKS,
BELONGING to the Elhtei of lAMBS HUNTER, deccafed
pjeafanily situated on tha River, with
in two miles of the town of Frcderickiburg, and one of Falmouth
and Tide-Water Confiding of a Forge, 130 feet by 54, eight
fires, and four hammers—a Coal Hont«, 80 teet by 40 a Slitting
and Rolling Mill,. G8 tcet by 30, for Sheet, Rolled and Slit Iron.
A Merchant Mill, 70 feet by 36, with two pair of stones ; one
whereof French Burr, and every other necessary apparatus for
manufacturing Flour in the bed method.—A Sjw Mill adjoining
rhe fame, 60 feet by 10. The walls of all these butldidgs arc ot
ftorte, extremely strong and neat, of the bed workmanship. The
running geers, machinery and fixturcsQt ihe whole, commodiouf
ly and judiciously and performed in the most masterly
and advantageous manner, on large and improved plans. The
.different departments are conveniently difpnlcd and arranged at
proper distances, on a deep and capacious canal, calculated to
supply more large and extensive works, and future improvements ;
cautiously fecurcd and guarded againd casualties from frefliets, or
nigh floods ; has its source in the main body of the riv:r ; a co
pious proportion whereof, to any reafonablc degree of quantity,
is at pleasure collected and turned in by a compleat set ot well
condru&ed strong dams, which have wit broke, or given way,
lince their formation, near nineteen years pad.—The head and
fall of the water operating on the wheels, is about twenty feet :
the greatest part of the works are in good repair, and the whole |
may be rendered so at a small expence. In the appendages there
to, are a convenient Tanvard, variety of (hops and utensils for
mechanical business of different kinds, houses for the Managers,
Workmen, And about 4 to 8000 acre* of land contiguous,
modly wooded, including some Farms and meadow land. A!fo.
will be offered for sale, a number of valuable Slaves, such as Ham
mermen, Refiners, Colliers, Forge Carpenters, Wheelwrights,
Smiths, Millers, Waggoners, &c. These works have advantages
over any in America, particularly in refpeft to the sale of their
produce, as there is none of the kind to the southward thereof, to
mod of which extensive, rich and fertile country, there is easy
conveyance by water ; nor is there any Forge within 90 miles,
nor a Slitting mill at all in this State, which might (hare the cus
tom, or vie with its manufactory—fome other peculiar advantag
es that can bed be pointed out on the prrtnifes, which on applica
ion will betbewn, and the terms of Sale made known, and very
easy for the purchaser, by
ADAM HUNTER, or } r
A3NER VERNON'. 5
(3 W -)
Virginia, Xlay 28, 1790.
Treasury Department,
July 13, 1790.
NOTICE is hcrebigiven, that Propofah will be received at the office
of the Secretary of the Treasury, to the firjl day cf Oflober next in
c/ufive, for the supply of all rations, which maybe requiredfor the use of
the United States, from the frjl dayaf January to the thirty firJl day of
December 179 , both days inclujive, at the.places, and within the difirids
herein after mentioned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in theJl&te of Pennjylvania,
and Fo r t Pitt and at Fort Pitt.
At ar.\ place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntofh, on the
River Ohio. and at Fort M % lntojh.
At ai\place or places, betwixt Fort Wlntofh and the mouth ojthe Ri
ver Mujk'ngum, and at the mouth oj the River Mujkinginn.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth oj4he River Mujkingum, and
np the said River to the Tvfcarowas, and nt the Tufcarowas, and thente
over to theCayog.i River, and down the said River to its mouth.
At anyplace or place*, betwixt the muuth of the river Mvfiingurr, and
the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth ojthe (hid River Scioto.
At any place Of placet, betwixt the month of Scioto River, and the mouth
of the oreal Miami at the mouth of the great Miami, and from thence to
the Rapids, 'on the Falls oj the Ohio and at the/aid Rapids.
At any place or placs, betwixt the mouth of th; great Miami, up the
hid Miami, to and at Piquetozvn, and thence over to the Miami Village,
on the river of the fame name which empties into Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids of the Ohio, to the mouth of the
JValtaJh, thence up the fuii Wakafh to Pofl St. Vincennrt, at Pofl St. Vin
ccnKcs, and thence up t!i said river Hafafh, to the Miami Village, be
fore defer xhtd.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the W'abafh river to the mouth
of the y iver Ohio.
At any place orplae's, on the eaflfie of the river Mifjifippi,from the
mouth of the Ohio river, to the mouth of the Illinois river.
At anyplace or places, from the mouthtfthe Miami river to the Miami
| Village.
At any place or place', from the .Mijni -Village to Sandijiy, and at
andufky, and Jr en Sandufky to the monthof Cv\oga river.
At anyplace or places, betwixt Fort Pit£mdVena*ga.and at V,
At any place or places, betwixt t'enanjumid l.e Beuf, and at Le Keuf
bet-vixt Le Beuf and and Prefij'lfle, a: rrefj' Isle, and betwixt Press
JJle and the mouth 0} Cayoga river.
At the mouth of Cayoga river, and at any place or places, on the rout
from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Caysga river, by the way of Big Beaver
creek.
At any place orplaces, on eajl fide of the Mijjifippi, between the
mouth of the Ohio anithe rhi-r Margot triclufrely.
At any Mace or pieces, from the fiidrrpr fiUrgot, to the river Yazous
inclusively •
.At any place or places from the mouth )f,the rivet Tennefee, toOcockap
io DT Bear creek, on thefaid river inclufaly.
Should any rations be required at any places, or within other dijtrids,
not/pee',' din these propo fait,thefricc ojiie fame toie hereafter agreed
onjletuiixt the public aid the contraßor. • '
The rations to be f applied are to cavjijl of the following articles, on.
One pound oj biend or flour, (
One pou*4 of beef, of-iff a ptn&ofpork,
HalfajiUof rum, handy or tukijkt, ■..
Qne ftitt fffrh, ). {
Two quarts of vinegar, f per- 100 rations, ,
Two pounds ojfiiap, [
One pound of Candles, ) 9
Stcutary cf thc Trfafurw
548
BOSTON;
TRICE CURPJ.Hr. NEW-YORK-
AICUI
Ik M AIC A Spi r its, 5/6.
Antigua Rum, 4/9. a 5/ ■
i*t. Croix, do. 4JB,
Country, do.
MolafTes, if\.
Brandy* ?/.
Geneva, 5/3.
Do. in cases, 28f.
MuscoVado Sof. a 72J.
Loaf, do. 1/4.
Lump, do. IAJ.
, Pepper, 2/9.
Pi menu), 1 1/6.
Coffee, 1/3.1 si-
Indigo, (Carolina) 3J. 6/.
Do. French, 18/. 10/
Rice, 25/.
Superfine Flour, 56f.
Common do. szf.
Rye do. 3cf. a 2sf.
Indian Meal, 18f. 20f.
Rve, 5 A pr. bufii.
Wheat, &/*. a qJ.
Corn, (Southern) 3/6.
Do. (Northern,) 4/
Beef, fuft quality, 54 A
Pork, firft quality, Boy]
Oats, 2/2. '
Flax-feed,
Ship bread per cwt. aiyi
Country refined > a ,
bar-iron, ) 0
Do. bloomery, 251. a 26!.
Swedes do. 451.
Ruflia do. 301.
Pi/;-iron, 81 10f. a 91.
German Reel, 9^.per lb.
Nails American, by cask. ) 14d.
per. lb. 4d. )
Do. do. do. 6d. 12d.
Do. do. do. Bd. q£d.
Do. do. do.
» Do. do. do* i2d.( Ij, 01 j
1 Do. do. do. 20d> 7^*8^-
Do. do. do, 24d.)
I Pot ash, per ton, 42!. 10f.
Pearl ash, 551.
Bees-wax per lb. 2f.
Mackarel per barr. 26/. a 30f.
Herrings, 18[. 16<f.
Mahogany, Jamaica, {
per foot, 5
Dominico, do. 9^.
Honduras, do. *jd.
Logwood uncliipped,pr.ton. 81. 1
Do. chipped. 14!.
2 inch white oak ) .
, . > tOi. \OJ.
plank., perm. J
1 inch do. s],
2 inch white pine plan*:, 81.
it> inch do. 61 10f
-1 inch do. 31. *of.
2 inch pitch pine do. 101.
Do. 22 inch do. il. &J~.
Cedar 2 it»ch do. xK los
inch do. 61. tqf.
1 inch do. 41.
; Pitch pine scantling, 31. B<f.
Cyprus 2 fret Ihingles, il. 1 of.
Final Settlements 12/6.
By Order of the Honorable Rickeid Morris, Efj. Chief J*ftice of the
State tf fievi-York. 4
NOTICE is hereby given to Lewis M'Donald.of Conifcfticut,
an absent debtor, that upon application and doe proof made
to the said chief justice by a creditor of the fai(l tew.iiWlkwld,
purfuontto an ast of the Lepiflature of the said State, ewitled,
" An aO for relief against abfeonding and ahfrttf debtors," pa(-
fed thp4th April, 1.785; he, the said chief justice.' hai direflert
all the fciid Lewis M'Donalds ellate, within this State, to be feir- -
ed, and that unless he {hall discharge his debts within
months after the publication of this notice, the fame will bf tola
for the payment of his creditor* Dated the jdMay, tyjo.
New-Yori, May 7, 1790. v 1 w. ly.>
PURSUANT to a Rcfolve 01 a£l of Congrcfi of the loih day
of May, 1780, relative to the deftru£cion of Loan-Offiq£ Cer
tificates by accident ; notice is hereby given to all whom it may
concern, that on the 2d day of January 1780, the house occupied
by the fublcribei in Market-Street, Philadelphia, took, fire and
was consumed, in which wai lodged a number of Loan-Otficot
certificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the said
fire : Therefore if any pcrfon, hath any obic£lion why the said
Certificates (hould not be renewed, agreeable to the resolves of
Congrefa, they must make them before the expiration of three
months, from the date hereof.
Invoice oJLoan-Cjjfice Certificates deflroyed in the houfc of John Ilo'kc
on the 2d day ofJanuary 1780.
1778. No / Dols.
/larch 13. Samut/l Cockc, jun. New-Yoik, 60c
ditto. do. 600
1636
i6r3
In testimony whereof I have frgned the present for pub
lication. HOLKER
K(W-York, July 26th, 1790.
THE Creditors of Col. ELISHA SHELDON, of Salifoury, arc
hereby notified, That the Subscribers V»eing appointed Truf
tees'f said She loon's estate. will attend to the business of thei**
lppointment on the firft Monday of Augufl next, at the house of
J a cob us Da v is, in said Satffbury, agreeable to the A6l of AfTerr,-
>ly.-—The intcrell of tht creditors requires tbeir qeneral atten
lance. HEZEKIAH FITCH, ) ~ „
OHN BIRD, $Trust«»
Jvurt -
Salijbury % (Conne&ieuijt June 2&, 1789
And to be fold by THOMAS ALLEN, Queen-Street, corner ofi
Fly-Market,
A COLLECTION OF
ESSAYS AND FUGITIVE WRITINGS,
On various fubjetts.
By Noah Webster, Jun.
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59, to No. 187, Water-Street, near the
Fly-Market,
WHERE they negociate all kind? ofPUBLICK
SECURITIES— BILLS OF EXCHANGE. Sec. asufuil.
Ntic-York, April 8, 1 -if.
'ST 4. Dollars at
Do. inch do. i'.' (J-
Do. »8. uich do. 18/
Butt white ofk ilaves, 30y
Pipe <io. do. 91.
Hogshead do. do. 6!. I°/
Do. do. heading, 81-
Irilh barrel do. staves, 3 • ,<;/•
Hoglhead red oak do, 51.
Do. French do. 5!.
Hojthea-d hoops, 4'-
Whiteoak fqiiare timber J in/ f_
per square foot, >
Red wood, per ton, 161.
Fufttck, 101.
Beaver, per lb. 1y- ' '«/■
O'.t r per flyji, 9f 33/
Grey fox, 4/7.
Martin, 4J'°-
Raco;>n, 3/6/27/6.,
Mufkrar, lod. a \
Reaver hats, 64 f
| Castor do. 48\f
I Chocolate, 14d.
Cocoa, ytojf. a Bos.
Cotton, ?f.
Tar, pr. bar. n/6.
Pitch, 12/ n 13 C
Turpentine, 22/. a 23f
Tobacco, James River, 4d.
Do. York, 4d. a 3£</.
Do. Rappahanock, 2d a
Do. Maryland, coloured, 5 - 77 '-
Do. Weftcrn-fhore, 2df a
Lead in pigs, of cwt. 6of
Do. bars, 68/1
Do. Shot, 68f.
Red lead, 68f.
White do. dry,
White do. in oil, 5/. 12/ i
Salt-petre hams, l\d.
Spermaceti candles, yf-
Mould do. nd. a lj.
Tallow dipt, qkd.
Soap, f)d. a Bd.
C a (tile soap. 9d. a 10d.
English cheese, pr. lb. 1 $d.
Country do. §d. 6d.
Butter, Bd.
Hyson tea, qf.
Sequin do. 6/6.
Bohea do. 2^.
of. a
Staich Poland, *d.
Snuff. 9J 2-
r\llum fait, water mcc- ? r
fure, pr. bulh. > J V
Liverpool do. ?j.
Madeira wine, £ ,c„ r :
pr. pipe, S
Port, 46/.
Lifhon, pr. {J
TcneiiiF, ,\f.
;vall, 3/3.
• permaceti do, 6..
i'iake r down hh('>. 3JO
>«tch gur-;)owder,pr.cvvt,r ,f~>j
'. rods, pr. ton, 34/. 36/.
intfeed oil, pr. gal. 4J.
Vhale do. 50 a 59/"
Indents yf.
ADVERTISEMENT.
This day pubhfhed,
Dollars, 1400.