.
of the ?6 s Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
'Number 1272.] ' THURSDAY EVENING? OCTOBER 6, 1796. [Volume X.
Washington Lottery. 1
The Twenty-fourth& rwenty-fifth Days' Drawing-os
tKe Waftmgton Lottery, No. ~ arc received at the office
No *14, Market-street, where tickets may be examined.
N. bT Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
paobcr 1, 1796- dt
Great is Truth and mufi prevail.
- •
JUST PUBLISHED, j
Andforfa'-e at No- 41 Ckefnut-Jlrcet By J. ORMROD,
An Apology for the Bible,
By R- Watson, d. d. f. s. s.
Bi/iQfi of Landaff, &c.
Being a complete refutation of Paine's
Age of Reason,
Aid the only anl'wer to the Second Part.
August j°- dtf j
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By W. Young, Mills and Son,
[Price 50 cts. in boards, 62 1-♦ neatly bound] j
, An Apology for the Bible,
In a series of Letter/,
Addressed to Thomas Paine, atithor of a book entitled ,
The Age tf Reajon, part ihe fecottd, being an in
iveltigation of true and fabulous theology.
By R. WATSON, D. D. F. R. S. Lord Bishop of <-
Landaff, and Regius ProfefFor of Divinity
in the University of Cambridge.
Sept. 16. 1 " t'j&f6
Epi/lle io Porcupine.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, by T. BRADFORD,
9pSK~. 'No. Sum!, FrDtdflicctj. 5
A congratulatory Epistle *
To the redoubtable Peter Porcupine,
On his " complete triumph over the once towering but
fallen and despicable fadlion in the United States."
A P 0 E M, t0
BY PETER GRIEVOUS, jun.
T 0 which is annexed,
The Vision, ioi
A Dialogue between Marat and Porcupine in the in-
fernal regions.
oa. 4- 3
~ THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED, j
By Mathew Carey, 118, Market-flreet, .£"
A Piflertation on Slavery, M
WITH A PROPOSAL ' ht
For the Gradual Abolition of it
In the State of Virginia.
By ST. GEORGE TUCKER, ProfeJJor of Laiv in
the Univer/ity of William and Mary, and one of
the Judges in the General Court in Virginia.
" Slavery not only violates the Laws of Nature and <"/
" Civil Society, it also wounds the bed forms of govcrn
« r>wm . in a Democracy, where all men are equal, flave
««' ry is contrary to the (pith of the constitution."
f xVlon tefqvieu.")
JfSept. 29. 6
THIS DAY PUBLISHED,
'By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price It l-a Cents)
The President's Address
To the People of, the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life V'
at the expiration of the present coriftitutional term of 1
presidency.
September %0. d
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By W. YOUNG, MILLS and Son, ]
Corner of Second and Chefnut Jlreets,
Price li 1-2 cents,
>,Xhe President's Address 4
To the People of the United States, ,
INTIMATING —
The resolution he has iermed to decline.feeing considered
among the number of those out of whom a choice is to
be made, at .the ensuing ele&ion of a Prefidcnt of the
United States.
Sep. 10 - ws6 Prii
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of thefhip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal, .
CONSISTING op " '
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras r '"r
CO ITON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins,•
Dorcas, tsV. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, T~
In boxes and bags—and PEPPER, .
ForSjleby ' thc c
Willings Ssf Francis, the
No. *i Penn Street. botf
June 8 § tick
ticki
India Tamboured Muslins. Po *'
exar
A finally handsome ajfortment of Mujlins, and
viz. Cert
&C
Fine tamboured Malda and Santipere Muslins, various
patterns and prices.
Plain 6-4 Jaconet. P
Corded and cross-barred Muflln Shawls.
Ditto ditto 6-4 and 4-4 Dorcas.
Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarse. Y/\
Japan Muslins, and * <
A few pieces extraordinary fine Long Cloths.
roR sal E by mon
Thomas Tingsy, e ,
No. 121, South Third-ftrett. any
Sept it. tutf&f will
TAKE NOTJ.CE. _Sf
r_ r , HE fubferiber intends to make application for a r«-
1 newal of the following certificate, iuppofed to be .. .
loft on the passage to England in April 1794 : | j
Certificate No. i0;;35, dated 15th November, 1793, and
for 283# dollars and 91 cents—Six per cent, domcltic
debt, oft the books of the -Tre*fury of the United States, rtquc
in the name of the Hon. John Trevor.
ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's.
Philadelphia, August 30th, 1796. *tu&f6w ' Se{
j For Sale,
feci' ea ds of choice New-England
ned. Rum,
ther finding fremthe fchoooer John, atVanuxem'swharf.
For terms apply to No. 71, Noith Water Street, *t the
head of the wharf.
_Ofl. ."!■ dtf.
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPI Ai,v CATHCART, si m A'i•: 2:; 1 and Lis
bon, ia:i ::ng at the fubfcribcfj'wharf—
28 Pipes of Brandy
!, 18 Bales of Spanish wool
3 do. of Annifeecf
7000 Bulheis of belt" Lilbon Salt
So'Boxet of Lemons
£ S For faie by WILLINGS Jc FRANCIS.
ALSO,
' Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the (bip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart, ,
— from Kingston. 1
Sf yt. 13. d
LANDING,
From on board the Brig Domhic Davine,
p Master, at Philip Care's Wharf, and for Sale by the
Subscriber,
!ed London Particular Madeira WINE, t
„ In Pipes, Hogihcads and Calks.
There are in the above parcel 10 Hhds. of CHOICE
0 f OLD WINE, fit for immediate use.
Ribert Andrews, •
Sjpt. 6. mw&f No. 86, So. Wharves.
Thomas Ryerfon
TITAS ju/l received, by the liiips Molly and Hamburgh
' II Packet from Liverpool, and the JLight Horse from
Bristol, and is now opening for sale, at his store No.
177, Market-street, an cxtermyp afforttnerit of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware
at and Saddlery.
The (hip Caroline, pow on her passage from Liverpool
to Philadelphia, brings the remainder of his fall impor
tation.
N. B. At fW above (lore may be had, a few elegant
Mahogany Cases for Table Furniture; also, a good af
lortment of the best kinds of Knives and torks.
n . Sept. n. ' d C!
Wm. HOLDERNESSC, "
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
the East Indies, a well fele(s!ed assortment of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdaftery Goods; which
ht will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowed terms ;
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
Some fine India rtiuflins embroidered with gold and (Hver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
~ Do do do do Handkerchiefs
, Some extra black taffeties.iutsftringsanii colored i'crfiar.6
J Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and (hort Nankeens Ji
1 English Mantuas of the firft quality
1- Damask table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hoficry, an elegant aflortmsnt
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—gracn 51k, oil'd do. and do clath , h
French cambrics, very fine
Irish Linens, do. &c. &c. June ia <5
FOR SALE, A
PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND GIN, of tht firft qualities in Pipes.
5 FRAUNCfeS and VAN REED,
Brokers and.Commi(fion Merchants, No. 63,Se.jj'd St.
e Who discount approved NOTES of hand.
lf N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted. ra
Stptember T 4 - , mwf of
For sale by the fublcribers, 'J
IN PtNN-STRFF.T,
130 quarter Chests fre>(h Hyson Tea ;f
i©o ditto do. freih Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing small tea l'etts of 41 bli
pieces;
4co pieces Bandanoes.
Willings Francis. P
' January 30 tt&f cil
i BO R SAL E, mi
By N. and J. FRAZIER,
NO. 95, S. Front-llreet,
Prime Boston Beef, in barrels.
Georgia Cbttou.
Carolina Rice and fr\digo.
SKerry and Tcneriftc Wines, of excellent quality.
Ravens Duct. c,e
Indio BiTidanno*s.
Sewing Silks, various coloura. & n
s CoffahsandGurrahs. {
Sspt. 17. ttS4W. Re
,• Lottery and Broker's Office, P hi
No. 64, South Second strest. 1
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prize? paid in i er
the late lottery. j Sec
Check, Books kept for eiaminatlbn and registering, for ! '
the City of Walhington, No. 1, and Pattefon Lotteries, ' Rr
both of whieh are now drawing—information where tlie
tickets are to be had, knd prizes exchanged for undrawn ! '
tickets. A complete lift o£ all the prizes in the late New- Lo
Post L©ng-W{iarf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for i at 1
examination. ; j je
The fubferiber foficits the application of the public ! 1
and his friends, -who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock?, t }, e
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Hou'fes, f e (r
&c. or to obtain money on deposit »f property. t | lL ;
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Auguf 18, 1796. mt h ho!.
NOTES LOST.
WHEREAS two notes drawn >y Benjamin Halkell e
and George W. Kirkland, dated Boston, the 24th
February, 1796, payable to Jefeph May, er order, in 18 ~
months after date, one for Or.e Thousand Dollirs, the *
other Fifteen D6llnrs, weie stolen with Tome other papers 10 r
out of a trunk on the Lancaster road It is requeftcd that Fri<
any person to whom thfy may be offered for negociation tic k
will give notice thereof to the fubferiber. S
GARRETT COTTRINGER.
30- ttstf *
Diflolution of Partnerfliip. ~ re< s;
•yilE Partncrfhip between' ROBERT ANDREWS and
DAVID MEREDITJi, under the firm of ANDREWS
and MEREDITH, being didolved. All person, „h0 are
indebicd to, or who have claims again!! the (aid house arc
requeued to apply for fcttlen-.ent to the '
ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, So. Wbaives. A
Sep 1.6,1796. d L{
John VVhitefides & Co.
H:ii>e fur Suie,
Vtnetitß Red,
lr f SpamfH Brown,
at t f,. W Ute lead, ground ill oil;
Shot, io. i, 1, 3, 4, 5.
Its. Lo/idc > Porter, in casks and bottler,
' Grccc
»nt Severn crates Queens Ware, irf setts, with aefert
~ ? t'itro cp> 3^le»t.
'4 cteel,
©ernjar, ditto.
Sept: ji.
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
s * An Invpice of Cordage,
Confiding of different fires, from 11 inch cables down
i ' to rrpe ul z inches, of different lengths: Imported in
1 ' the (hip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 27. dtf
nankeens,
ine » Of the frjl quality, FOR SALE BV,
RD. and JAS. POTTER.
For any quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, a li- 1
> beral credit will be given. R. &J. P. 1
September 11. T tf t
fCE ; .
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the bejl quality a?id on reajonable terms, <(
S. FOR SALE BV
— Philip Nicklin y Co.
■ Attgtft 26. dtf «
It Philip Nicklin & Co. ;
No - HAVE FOR SALE,
Souchong -
Hyson Skin /
Young Hyson >- FRESH TEAS 1
,00l H y son a »d N a
sor- Imperial J I
Yellow Nankceps '
ant China Ware, aiTorted in Boxes .and Chests
as- Quiokfilver B
Handanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in 1
_ chtfts
London Market MADEIRA WINF.
London particular >in pipes, hipgflaeads, &
New-York Market ) quarter "casks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes aod hogfkeads ,
Sugar Candv by the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
u . ch Lead in fteets °
' 3 Casks of Cutlery afiorted
ver A few chests of Mai(chcfter Goods, aflorted thick- i<
sets, cords, striped fvankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks »
an 6 X Tierces Virginia Snake-root. «
Nails aflforted in calks «
July 13 mw&f "
' —— - (.
Wanted to Rent,
A convenient, well furm/hed Bed Chamber, "
Wkh a good fire-place, in an airy and healthy part of „
the ciry. ihe person vvh© wants [6 rent such a chamber, it
would have no objeiftioß to boarcl, or bteakfaft only, with
I t!ie faniily occupying tlx house, as miy be moll agreeable. ,
Apply to the printer.
Septeaiber 20. taw
{ .t ' in
Public Notice is Hereby Given, tii
St. r T" , O the Freemen of the City and Comity of Phila
• JL cVlphia, and the County of Delaware, that a gene
ral election v.'ill bt iield on Tuesday the eleventh {lay j. ,
of Oiflobet ntxt. —The ejeftipn to be opened oftween
the hours of ten o'clock in the forenoon, and one
o'clock in the afternoon.
When the freemen of the City of Philadelphia, are In
to meet at rfie State-hoilfe in the' fa'd city, to eleil
Six :V,presentativesfor faidcity in General Afiem
-41 bly,
One Representative for said city ia the House of Re-
ps tfte United States.
Twenty persons for members of the Common Coun
pil-
~ Twelve persons for members of the Seletfk Com- L
mittee.
The Freemen of the City and £ountyof Philadelphia
to eleifl
One person fpr Governor
1 Two persons for Coroners
One person for County Commifiion;-
The Freemen of the County of Philadelphia, to
eledt f-j
Six Representatives for said County in General As- J
fembly. on
One Representative for said county in the House of Jei
Reprefentawves of the United States. A al
The Freemen of the City and County of Philadel- the
phia, and County of Delaware, to eledt f c j,
One Senator for the State •
.» The Freemen of the townlhip of the Northern Li- Pn
in ; berties are to hold their eledlion at the town-house in
I Second Street continued, above Coats's Street.
or | The Freemen ps the townships of Germantown,
-S, Roxborough and Bristol, are to hold their elefliou at
re the Union School House in Gcrn*intown. (
•n ! The Freemen of the townships ef Oxford, By berry, ed
v. Lower Dublin and Moreland, are to hold their election 'cr>
x at the house of the late John riarnfley in Bufsletown, in
the township of Lower DubJin.
ic ; And the Freemen of the DiftrWt of Southwark, and
k\ the townships of Moyamenfing, Paflyunk, and King- 1
s > fefling, are to hold their ekaion at the State-Houfc in
the City of Philadelphia.
The Constables of each Ward, Diflrifl, tic. are to , F
hold their eledlion, in the-different diftrids to choose c .
; 1 heir infpeflors for the ensuing year, and to give their rf'
; attendance »t the time and refpedive places. '
" Sept. 26. JOHN BAKER, Sh.riff. _
Bi' ■ -
e * ' The Electors of Chester county are requefled
:s to meet at Hunt in Eaft-Caln township, on -r
lt I'riday, the 7th day of Oiflobcr ensuing, to farm a ; n x
j, ticket for the ensuing cle&ion.
September 12, 179 6? 7T"
_ OQI
** The Inhabitants of the county of Chester are
requested to meet at the house of Abraham Marshall,
.n the township of Weft-Bradford, in said county, on
the jth day of Oaobtr.next, in order to consult on a .. '
p gfnetal ticket for tue ensuing eUdVion. ®
September J4, 1796. and
tend
rr a w t e d, tbe „
An APPRENTICE to the Printing Business. Z
En«jinre atthis o®te. y yea ,.
WANTED,
Thief. JOUJiNETMEN BOOK BINDER?,
GOOD steady workmen will met: with conftait em
ployment, and good wages; by applying to JOHN
.CURTIS, No 43, Noith Fourth-fired.
N". B. BOOK-BINDING in all its different branches,
exscuted with neatness and dispatch. Public and private
lib raries rtpaii c.d in the naatefl and bed manner.
September 20. t & 2*v
r •
New-England Rum,
__ In hogfhpsds,
Welih's bell Bpfton Chocolate,
r> And
■ HYSON-SKIN TEA, in quar-.e'r chests,
FOR SALE, BY
3wn A. MARPI.E & ISR. W.MORRIS,
I in No. 6c. Dopk- ftrect.
Sept* 14. co6t.
— No. 154.
DiJlriß of PennfyivSnia, to wit :
f "O R it rcmemiiered tha; on the 26th dayof Sep.
j seal 1i t ember, in the twemy-firft year of the Inde-
CWJ 3 pendenee of the United States of America, A-
L li- braham Bradley, junior ©ftl|E laid Difti i<3,hath deposited
in this office, the title of a Map, the right whereif, he
f claims as author in the words following to wit,
« Map of the United States exhibiting the fixations,
" connexions & diflarrcei of the Poft-Oftkes,
" Counties, Ports of Entry and Delivery for Foreign, yd'
" lcla, and the principal rivers,
" By ABRAHAM BR ADLKY, jun."'
In conformity to the A& of the Congrels ofth« United
States intituled " All a,5l for the encouragement of learn
lnS by fecuruig the enfiesof maps, charts, and books to
the authors and proprietors of luch copies during the
times therein mentioned. - '
Samuel Caldwell, Clerk,
Diftrha as Pamfylvania.
The above map may he had of the author at .the General
'Poft-Office, next door to the War-Office in Fifth-Street,
and at his houf-, No. 78, corner of Crown Street and'
Brewers Alley between 4th and Jth, and Vi'n» and Cal
lowhill Sreets. Prices from 3Jto 5 dellars each, accord
ing to the manner in which they are finilhed. The pro
gress (or arrivals ani departures) of the Mail on the Main
Line may be had separate for J; 1 ccents.
in . , OA. 3. iaw6w.
& No 152.
lyijlrtd of Pennfftyania, to ivU t
BE it remembered, that oil the fcvenceenth day of Sep
tember, in the twenty- rft year of the indt jwndenee
of the Unitpd States ps America, William Mitchell, of
thefaid diftrift, deposited in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof lie claims as author, m the words fol
iowing, to wit:
« A new and complete fyftcm of bookkeeping, hy as
" improved mcthod.of doable erttry, adapted to Mail, do
" racftic and foreign trade; exhibiting a variety of 'tranf
" ailions whicn usually occur in bufine/s. The whole
" comprised in three sets of booksthe tail let being a copy
" * '-of the f.comi, according to those fyftenw 'moil generally
" in use, is given in order to exhibit, by a comparative
" view, the advantages of Ihe fyftcm now laid down. To
of " which is added, a table of the cities payable on goods,
" wares and merchandise imported into the United States
"of America. The whole in dollarsimd cekts.
" By William Mitahpll."
c ' In conformity to the a'cft of the Congress of tht United
States, intituled," An aft fer the encouragement of lcarn
_ hig, by securing the copies of maps, charts and books t9
the authors and proprietors of such copies, during the
times therein ihentiofted."
a . SAMUEL CALDWELL, elk. did.
Pennsylvania,
N. B. The above IJook is now publilhed, and may be
v hid of the Booksellers O&ober j. *iaw4w
' e Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
re Including theNoRTHESN Liberties and diftrift of
Sour H war k ,
1- Publilhed, and fold by'
BENJAMIN DAVIE S,
No. 68, High flreet,
(Price one dollar.),
THIS plan is 2,6 inches square, and has been en"
graved by one of the firft artifls in the city, from a late
and accurate fiirvcy. Purchafsrs are entitled to a para
phlet with each plan, giving some account of the
II city, its population, trade, government, &c.
J u 'y '9 tn&ftf '
Mr. FRANCIS,
0 _ (Of the New Theatre)
r 'X'AKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
- A fcholart and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters fcimfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any pcomifes of candu&ing his future
schemes on the molt liberal and ftriaeft terms, of pro
priety, totally unneceflary. /
N. B. Private tuition as usual.
' J" ne 3 law
; BRAN D Y,
OF 1 ft and 4th proof, and equal in quality to that imporr
' , from France, may be had of the fubicribcr at his Diftil
-11 l^ ry ' u n' 115, Story or between Third and
1 where the public, upon application, may
Judge for thcmfelves, and will find it an obieft well worth
j their attention. 1
RUM and GIN in any quantity, for expsrtation'or homt
conlumption, and of superior quality— by
Thomas Cave.
J K P ' S MA V T ' . BaRLEY ' ai; d MELASSES, will
be pur chafed, or taken ,n exchange for fpiriti, upon appli
r fnTr d l tto,'on A "° aßy qUa<Uity ° f ° r —
Auguftsgh, 1796. m . 4W
University of Pennfykania,
• October 5, 1796.
The Medical Ledures will commence the'firft Monday
1 >n November. tawjw
Society for the relief ,f dijirefed Pi lets,
their Widaws and Children.
0- Agreeably to the aft incorporating
the S.ciety for the relief of diftrefWPilot., their Widow,
and chddren, the Members thereof are requ'efled to at
tend their general meeting at the Carpenters'-Hall i„
the Court leading up to the Bank «f the United State,
on Monday theioUi mllant, (OJtober) at fix o'clock in
the evening, in order to eled their officers for the enfuW
year, ani traufacl ather b«finefj of said Society.t: ' THEON,
'■d Amphitheatre,
• For Equestrian and Stage pcrfotmances. Corner of
Chefnut and SiJctli-ftreetj, will be opened on MON
DAY, Ovflober the iotli, with a
BriHiant Di/play xtf Scenery,
—- AND ORNAMENTAL PAINTINGS,
Neia lights, and a great variety of
SUPERB DECORATIONS.
t , Mk. RicKrTTS will endeavor to make the entertain
ments of each evening as agreeable at possible, being re
solved to use his bell exertions to render fatisfadlion to
his friend and patrons.
The doors will open at 6 o'clock—Performance
commences at 7 —Boxes 7s. 6d.~Pit 3s. 9^.
Tickets to be had at the ticket office of the Pantheon,
and at CEllers's hotel.
Evenings of Performance to be Monday, Wednef- ,
day, Thurftfay and Saturday.
No. 153.
DiJlriS of Pennsylvania, to wt.
EE it remembered, that on the twenty-fourth day of
September, in the twenty-firft year of the independence
of the United States of America, WiJliam Cobbett of
the said diftridt hath depefited in this office the Title of
I'Book, the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in
the words following, to wit.
" The Political Censor, or Review of the most inte
renting pplitical occurrences relativoto the Ignited States
"of America—By Peter Porcupine"—ln conformity to
the Acl of the Cor.grefs of the United States, intituled
"An Acl for the encouragement of learning'by securing
the Copies of Maps, Chaits and Books to the authors
and proprietors of such Copies, during the times therein
mentioned." SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk
Diftriit Pennsylvania.
i-1 : *
* pr Charter,
Ksfsfi JL The Danifli Barque Beneventura,
4 Samuel Stub, mailer, .
A good veflel, of about two
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WAI.N.
Sept. 17. dtf • ]
H or -Charter,
The Ship Dominiclc Terry, ,1
jScob De Hart, mailer: an excellent ;
of about 3000 barrels burthen. ,
Jeffd Ssf Robert Wain. |
September #T., d c
For Cork,
Tfye Ship Mary Ann, c
la.' Francis Stuart, matter: is a ftrang, a
■ Clip, fails fact, and has good accommo a
datiohs for passengers. Great part of her cargo "being a
ready, fhc will fail in ro days! For freight or pafTage .
apply to the Captain on board, at Mr. wharf, r
Or to Stuart & Barr. 1
Sept. 29. dtf No. 100, South Ront-ftrcet.
FOR LONDON, r
The capital ship CERES,
fail soon:—For freight or pafTage
apply to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or ?
3
'John Vaughan, d
September 10. Front-flreet ft
DISTRICT COURT, \ ff si
Pennsylvania Diflijid). y JJ*
IN pursuance of » writ tc me directed, from the l '
Honorable Richard Peters, Esquire, Judtje of the Dif- ti
tridt Couft of th- United States, in and for the Pennfyl- it
vafiia Diftriit, will be exposed . o Public Sale at the
Merchant's Coffee-Honfe, in the City of Philadelphia, r
on Wednesday the 12th day of O&ober inft. at 1 % o'clock
at noon, the SHIP called ■ 11'
The JOSEPHUS, J,
all and Angular her tackle, appa- at
.■ and furniture, as the fame now arc, at
.'hip having been condemned to pay mariners'
wages, &e. WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marfkal. *
Marshal's Office, 4th Odcber,. 1796. J ' tr
For Sale, 1 £
Thc remarkable fact failing CO
JEM££. SCHOONER LIVELY, gc
■ now lying at Hamilton's wharf, built in 1704 bv Mr. da
Yard at Ker.fington, of live-osk and red-cedar— her di
mensions are 68 feet 3 inches length on dcck— ,9 feet 6 , .
inches bread'h, of beam—B ieet 4 inches hold—and car- h "
tics between 5 and 600 barrels floun— The Lively bcinu c '»
well tyown here, any further description of her is nnne- ch
CC ff^'7"[ U r C "'° fay ' lhat fte »• not inferior to any Ai
vessel of her size in any refped whatever—For terms aD- A
P I Y to EDWARD DUNANT, ,
... - J^°- J 49. south Front-street.
Who will have landed on Wednclday morning next, from Fr
on bMrd the B.iginuneLlßEßly, Captain MLHiPHEY, lip
•t laid wharf. ' r
100 Hogjheads prime Havanna Molasses. fh«
■ He has likcwife f or f a | f
PA F ack^" ot CALCUTTA GOODS-Conf.fting of,
Fungim Cloths, .Humhuim, Tiekerys, Baftaes, Coffaes P U
J? PuH'Cat and Bandanno Handkerchiefs, Guienahs! 17
&1&I a'iTo' PPa 4 " S ' Gurrihi ' Pa[n » Chimin th,
Oftobcr o. r » *
2 • 6t. * vcr
0r GlasgOW, tro
The good brig COMMERCE, fuc
E. Tai.lm.av, mafler. Ed
Will fail from New-York, the 9th inft. havin £ two wb
th.rds of her cargo ready to g. on board-She is intended ma
to return to Philadelphia very early in the.Spring. For tier
treight or passage apply to THOMAS SIMPSON, w j,
_ _ - Breck, iun'r's, l
* « Soutn Third-ftrcet,
. -Opposite Mr. Chew's Gardens. " l:
or Boston, g"
The Schooner JOHN, apj
conftajit trader. Peter Cofim, mafler, fini
lym; it Mr. Vanuxem's wkerf, will fail in all next week, has
or Freight or passage apply to thc Captain on board or to (a
Edward Stow, jun. be i S
Who has r-c.-rred by the above vcfiif, to
Some excellent Pickled Salmon, bin
and a few quintals of the the
Very best kind of -Dumb Fiih. St a
September dg e d
New-York, Newport, }" n
Providence, Q f
The new Sioof EAG LE, - Th
Jotu £arl, muter . will iail in skw diys . haa e] a (f c
-accommodations for passengers, and -will take irci K hl on mai
moderat, term.. AppW t. the tn.ftir on board, to f P ,,
ea .w,.y
dts no 1
> From the Columbian Mirror, and Alexandria
r Gazette.
JN-
To the Freeholders of the counties of Frince Wil
liam, Stafford and Fairfax. *
Fellctv Citizens,
IT hat ever been my opinion that the fuffragei
tain- of freemen, at all elections, ought to be given in
g re- the mod free and utibiafled manner, and, therefore,
>0 to disapprove of peifnnal applications to individuals
for their votes, a pradtice which ought to be dis
countenanced in a republican governmeit, where
eon the inteiefts of the citizens so materially jepend on
the proper exercise of th« right of fuffraje.—But
Inef- it is also my opinio* that the political fentmentsof i
every man who offers hinafelf as a candidate for '
any office ought to be well known and uaderllood. '
„ , I will, therefore, disclose mine to you, as far as '
• relate tp the of this address, with that free- ;
j n ° e dom and candour which become a republiean.
tt of When 1 fitft offered myfelf as a candidate for
leof your fufTrages, as an elector of the Piefident.and 1
,in Vice President of the United States, at the ap- 1
proaching election which will take place at your 1
tates rf fp f^'ve Court houses on the fir ft Monday in No
yto vei "ber next, I had a hope that the great and good '
uled man, who has so wiiely and happily administered '
ring the firft of these important offices, would not have c
hors maae it neceflary at this period to choose his fuc-
ccfTor. In that hope I have been '
He has requested, in a paternal and affectionate ad- 1
dress to his fellow citizens, that he might not be
conlideied among the number of thofeout of whom
a choice is to be made. f
RA ' I hold it essential to the prosperity and felicity e
of our country, that the'fucccffor of our beloved 1
3re President be one who will condu& our public as- P
J ' fairs upon the fame principles which have gjverned P
his administration, as well with*efpeft to all foreign
nations, as with refpeft to the several Statej—Un- P
de r this persuasion, if it (hall happeH that I f(
•the honour to represent you at the cle&ion, I'/hall, 3
lent after obtaining all the information in my power
n - refpefting the differeHt characters, give a vott for L
him who will most probably persevere in the cotrfe h
— of h . t! predecessor as nearly as ciaumftances will u
admit. il
Mr. Patrick Henry and Mr. Thomas Jefferon, 81
of Virp.n.a Mr. John Adams, of Maffachufitts, n "
oo d and Mr. Thomas Pinckney, of SoOth-Carolua, ,!
no are the gentlemen who will ptobably be voted /or' 1,1
■aef and a ' thou Kh I determined, should Ibe your tl
arf, rc P r «entattve, not finally to decid. on the chiac- ,0
tersfor whom I shall rote until the meeting- of the
electors ; yet I am free to declare, that if 1 main ' n
— my present impreffioiu, I /hall vote for Patrick Hen- va
ry and John Adams. co
Mr. Henry's character must be well knavn to th
you. Hh early and manly opposition to the ufur
or P allon o{ ' he Parliament, which brcught 3,1
abaut our Wappy revolutwn ; his diligence and wif- M
dom while at the head of the gorernment of this 1
_ state ; his exemplary and praife-wortby corduft co
fine, the adopt,on of the Fedetal Constitution ; his 1 1
love 01 oider and hatred of despotism, whether of ch
he the one or of the many, united to his great abili- m :
'f J'!?, , , . attachme n t to republican principles,' cn
J ult, y entitle htm to universal confidence. co
ii! f• , f r ' l , Adams ha . s fer,rc:d hia country ufefully and hit
ck V ?T % h ' gh P olitical stations, from at
the firft dawn of the.revolut,on to the present time Wl Ul
1 know no man more likely to persevere in that In
policy which has fa long promoted the prosperity P 0
,a- and prefcrved the tranquillity of the United States Sti
rs' 8 k,- )- 11 nc,t l her wife nor generous to discard nel
a pubhc servant who has faithfully served hi. coun- th(
— beenTakVn h" r W£my year '" But pains have of
been taken by forne among us who were opposed to tirt
the adoption of the federal conflituuon, and who wh
continually abuse the administration of the federal
government, to induce you to believe tha*Mr A. to
r. dam. ir a friend to monarchyjnd hereditary titles. mil
6K' , j-ff melUlon of l .he confidence reposed in us
r- '.'T' 3 'different and trying periods, by his fellow ln '
chaige. Jrom the time of the eleflion of the firft mei
7 American congress, until the year J770, Mr A- d -"
dams was a member of fhat patriot,"£dv A N
bout that time he was joined by Congress with Dr nMj
I: -
s, 1782 he was appointed mh,ifter plenipotentiarr to >
', , r gen r al ° f ,He Uni Ne.herlandsZne
(r £ ot,ate d ail advantageous treaty, and obtained ave
ry conhderable and seceffarv l«=n f l
vernment for the United Stages I n thTf R °' 1
he w?s one of the commit', . , same 3' ear wai
treaty of jieacc with Great Hr't " W ° lade P l 'h
fumed that his co-patriots, with whomT. hafe* fcd
with his political principles >or "t"' , ac< l usinted bril
'■ have entruiled the most im 'n , %h 7 Fra
. Uuited Slates to a citizen lntCrefts of the 1
his republican principle, ?nd° 1T eV " lCed tha '
good ? Soon aCthe P concl U , PUbKc fti P
kim, i„ , ht ,„ r k? t C"
the Constitutions of Governmp , r P nc f °f the
States of America," has with " tit Unite d beer
ed out the fupeiior & 7 P° lnt - °f r
vernment j and yet feme are "hard" rCp , can K°"
' fert that, in that bookT he *° as "
of a monarchy to any fZ e 1
The following cxtrait will [,W t g ° VernmeR t. 1
affcrtioo, to the fatisfaCtion of e' prove arm:
pare every constitution we h.v.f, •i ? C ° m "
the United States of Amen"! and 2 ° f be «
no reason to bluih for cur couotrv Ttb 6 affc<£
country ;on the csntia- l e fj ,
- ry, we fljall fed the ftrcngeft motives to fall upon
our knees, in gratitude to heavenfor having been
dr'ia giaciuufly pleated to give us birth and education in
that country, and for having deftioed us to live
under her laws—We (hall have reason to exult if
we make our comparison with England and the i
* Euglith conftirution. Our people arc undoubtedly
fovcreign—All the landed and other property is
3 y. e} in the hands of the citizens—nouonly their repre
n;n fentatives, but their senators and governors are an-
p orc nually chofeits There arc no hereditary titles, ho- ;
Urals nor», offices nor diJlinftions. The legiftative, exe
j|- cutive and judicial powers are carefully separated
liere from each other. The powers of the one, the few i
jon and the many, are nicely balanced in their leg 1 (la- ;
g ut tures, I Trials by jury are prefer ved in all their I
sos glory-, and there is no (landing army. Tbt habeas i
£ or corpus is in full foA.e, and the press is, the mod free I
in the world ; and where all thrfe citcumftances '
r as take place, it is unneceflary to'add that the laws i
" ree . alone can govern." ]
What words could Mr. Adams have used which I
f or would more fully expr-efs his preference of ail cleft 1
and ' ve chief raagiflrate-and an elective tenate, 1
a p_ hereditary monarch or»chief magillrate and ail he- >
, our reditary ieirate ? ,
jvj 0 . Attempts are made to excite your fears for
ood ,I,tereßs Potomac, and to induce you to believe
:red l^at our ea fteru brethren are not friendly to the Fe- 1
lave City. i
fee. " One of the ex|rcdients of party to acquire in- f
ted. uence with particular ciiftrifts, is, to misrepresent 1
ad- t ' le opinions and aims of other diftrifts." Can you J
be believe, my fellow-eitizens, that the congress of the c
10m United States, after pledging the public faith by a r
solemn aft, ellablifhing the permanent feat of gov. r
:ity foment of the United Stales on the Potomac; — f
ved l^e expenditures of money, as well by the f
a s. public as individuals in that city, confiding in the 1;
ned P u b!ic faith ; arid after having guaranteed a confi- o
ign derable loan for the purpoie of carrying on the ii
Jn- P u bl'c buildings—will be so regardless of the pre
™ fervation of the union, and the principles of juttiee, p
all, 3810 re peal that aft. But if any are so uncharita- li
ver bly disposed as to-believe, that a President of the t!
for U n 'ted States will regard the local advantages of a
r f e his Own (late more than the general good of the p
vill union, they have nothing to fear on that score, ei- c
ther from Mr. Henry as a Virginian, or Mr.'Adamj
>n, a ® a Maflachufettenfian. The geographical Gtua- f
ts, t ' on ol Massachusetts, precludes the expectation I
,ia, , ' lat of government can ever be eftabliftied 'I
th«re ; and it i.) evidently more to the interclt of C
iur the people of that itate, that congress (hould remove
ic- Potomac, than that they (horrid remain in Phila
he dclphia or any other large town : but if it remains
t i n in Philadelphia, they are excluded from every ad- tl
vantage arising from the feat of government, in c j
consequence of the great wealth and population of , £
to *«t city. r r £
lr . I think it unneceflary to Rate, in a public address, G f
ht I J 8 " ° f my P rcferencc of Mr. Henry and | c
if- fr-.Adams, or either of them, to Mr. Jeffcrfoo ;yet a s
lis 1 tl,lT) *rt my duty to declare, that Mr. Tefferfon's t e
conduct, when governor of Virginia, in the year
lis 1781, in abandoning the trust with which he was <
of charged, at the moment of an iuvafion of the enc- m
11. my, by which great confufion, loss and distress ac- id
cru< - d th * state, in the deftruftion of public re- J c f
cords and vouchers for general expenditures, and to
, d his retirement from the office of fecrctary of state, pe
m it 3 jc C Whe " lhe pcace asd tranquility of the at
e H , y n,ted St V« 3 appeared in extraordinary peril, are, w j
at in my opinion, strong objections against his ap
y P elnt ™nttd the office of President of the United
6, itateß - J liefe 'nftances (hew him to want firm- an
dI V 1 "l"?" wh ° stall once have abandoned all
the helm in the kour of danger, or at the appearance
. c or a tempcll, seems not fit to bd tiufted in better ke
0 times, for no one can know ho\x soon, or from
0 whence a storm may come. Nt ,
jI to t l Z B t gh 1 l 7 C J eC t ed P rffent f^»ments
'* mina * T r ° f Mr ' Henry and Mr - Adsma ' i
it mind (hall be open to convifti„ n ; and 1 Aiall holj poi
11 ■ d dut y> as'" obtaining all the information l^ro
in my power, rcfpeftipg the characters .who may
a be nominated, to vote for those who, in my jud/- Scl
11 TJnV 1 ' Tv S U 'r lfied 10 fi!l the officcs of Prcfi- Up
- ? nd V'ce-Prefident, and v. ith whom the peace, '
" 3nd "Vf S i " hc Unil£d S' 3 '" o - be wit
foel,;entrufted.-And, as I flrould vote for at
. Geoige Vvaftimgton, if he could be prevailed en wit
• 'V° nt,nue !on K Cr »'»> office, in preference to any of .
f nrin ' C )" IZ * n A ' llall 1 re & ard a coincidence in gat
8 principles and sentiment? with that illullricus citi- rics
t «en, as the best recommendation of his successor
r ' c CHARLES SIMMS."
> A'exandna, Sept. 27, 1736.
— (
BOS I ON, September 29. the
" We hear thft on Thursday last the feleftmen Th
• mTr ° n t" Adet ' milliftcr of the French re- 10 '
- ? l ' bllc ; t'ie cha.rman, citizen Price, addref- pr °
led him nearly a 6 follows : gar:
Miuifter of France, at
! _ Tl,c Seleflmen of (tic tou- n 0 f Boston, ».r, P iat
1 Wiu,,, -
! Fr " ce over \) e a ,™» of the combined defpo , 1
I , Tlle y would take this opportunity to 00,1
• fr.ip which now tibfifts between the ur r conl
• France and the United S ,«c. of A«ncri ca
| continue to the end of time. . mcn «, may , h<;
ITo which the rr,Snifter made the following reply • chJ,
! roeiic'an f ° '¥?'■" " 1C A " h "
; gave him on being waiJlpot, by h "£°" ')
he metropolis of Massachusetts I , f,? cf 1
been so early and determinedly en °h" ' l the
of republicanism and the right. f
fe<flionate manner in which thfv py c u • * nc(
fureon, his arrival at Boston made a " r i"" the
on him too deep to be forgot,'™ the,
ihe copgratuhitions on the success of lb* V - P rcc
armies, gave him the highest plcafure m y l
from the republic of F r , 1 a """'C.er r
. joined them in prayer that the t <incere! y rivet
more fir m l y Li ed in Lt T° mi S hl brin
affeftian, and ,ha no hint , ' ° f ! r,e " d «»'P of (
pon NEW-YORK, Oftobfr 4.,
>ecn Yclterday arrived at tliig Ichoaner CJs
n in ra, Capt. Lefc,omb, in 60 days from Botirdeaux.
live By Capt L. the Bourdeaux corrcfpoudent of the
t if Argus Editor hat sent a file of Paris and Bou'i
the deaux papers—from Paris to July 26, and Bo Ul "
:dly deaux to July 31, incluiive.
yis The national felUvai was celebrated at Bourdeau
pre- the .26th July in the utmoll tranquility ;at whicl'l
an- with the triumvira) throne, was committed to the
ho- flames, the ruins of the tribunal or\ which the ral
cxe' litary commifiion was besieged. The editor of the
ated Bourdeaux paper observes, that there were bin v :
few ry few of the national guards at this solemnity—
lfla- and assigns, as a natural-reason, that between t1..-
heir Old and new organifatK.n, which is not yet termi.i
beat ted, the citizens were at a lof# vvhut companies the*
free belonged to, and their uniting under rtie-famc-fk
ices was more difficult than usual—but, he cannot afli .-i
aws the fame reason why the burning of the throne, la.
king of the ballile, See. were unaccompanied by
lich military discharges—public feltivkis, fays he, fhoul.l
eft speak to the senses, and clmradarife the kili vc
van band, in refped totheohje-ds of the fcftisal. There
he- were patriotic songs, lyrick hymns, and dancing.
Our correlpor.dent writes as follows
tli?- Bcurdeaux, July 31.
ieve " Never was such a feriis of as has sol-
Fe- lowed the republican arms of France ; every day
new battles, and Jways vidorious. The German
in- princes all demanding feparate,peace—the states of
lent Italy all subdued, and honorable terms of peace
you granted for th£ people, but heavy contributions or
the church and state both in money and provisions •
y a near 700 pieces cannon taken this spring by gene*,
ov. ral Buonaparte—the army on the Rhine and Mo-
; — fell, equally victorious. In (hort the Auftrians are
the put to the rout in every diredion ; and, as at the
the lad gaff>, they now commit every ad of barbarity
nfi- on the poor dcfeneelefs men, women and children,
the in their retreat.
.re- " A general peace on the continent mud take
ce, place immediately, as nothing can withstand repub
ta licin bayonets. L» VSBdee is totally <Mirmrd •
the their chiefs (hot ; the people swearing allegiance'
of and submission, except a few Banditti who rob and
the plunder, indiscriminately, ariflocrats and republi
ei- cans. All is peace in Frauce.
Ms " Price Current at Bovrdcaux, July 3 1.
ua- Flour 3610 40 or 6 to 7 Crowns pei barrel,
ion Rice 17 t® 18 or 3 CroWns pet cwt.
red Tobacco 45 per cwt.
of Coffee 36 sous per lb." Argus.)
j«- WETZLAER, July 15.
ins It has already been announced in several Journals
'• ia rench had proipifed to reiped the Ar
"l 1 hives of Wetzlacr. It is to the good offices and
of recommendation of ihe King of I'ruflia that the
Empire is indebted for this moderation on the part
i». of the Republicans, as will be fern by the following
letter upon this fubjed by the Miniiter of Foreign
« affairs to M. de Santoz Rottin, Minister Pletiipo
' « tentiary frorti his Pruffiau Mnielly at Paris.
" '.Sir,
as '• TheDiredory in pleased tocondefcend tothede- <
e- mand made by you in the name of his Pruflian Ma
c" j c '' V' 'n favor of the archives depoliled 5rJ the city
e- of Wttilatr. 1 have fertt an 01/ier to gen. Jourdan
id to refped them religiously, in tafe tho warlike
e, perations should be carried on that fitfe. Receive
>e at the fame time the assurance Of the confideratioo
f > with which I am, &c.
j ' "DELACROIX."
d This morning the Magistrates put all the blue
1- and green cloth in requisition zs they likewise have
d all the horses.
.e Ihe Palace of the Prince of Tour and Taxis is
tr kept in readiness for General Jourdan.
11 Every communication with the Upper Rhine is
now entirely cut off By the pfogreisof the French.
.6 The fir it payment of the Frankfort coutribu: ion
yis already prepared in ready money—and it is sup-
J posed that the second will be procured on ciedit
ti from fon'.e other Imperial city.
y Ihe court of Darniftadt has been rcnioied t®
- SLliweinnirt, and veileidsy a French General
i- up hit residence in the Palace of'Darmftadt.
', i h.e minister of the Eledorate of
e with the Pruflian and tleffian ministers still remain
r at Frankfort, »nd is treated by the French generals
n with great tefped as a neutral minifler. The arms
y of Brunfwick are still affixed at hislioufe, ant, the
11 gates arc ordered to be opened to him and his livc
- rics.
—— 0
COLOGNE, July 22,
[l.xtiacl of a private letter J
" The Auftrians are felling all their inagaxmesto
the magiftrates.of the places which (hey abandon.
, ma gaiihes at Manheim have equally been fold
.10 c ' t y f° r 'he purpose of furnifhing it with
• P r o v i(ionß. The t -vftrians have not left a strong
garrison for its defence : they have done the fame
at Philipfbourg ; but tit garrison at this latrer
place i»"compofe<J, t ' n a great rheafure, only of the
I troops of the empire and the palatinate."
j ~ TOULON, July 9.
I he day before yellerday the frigate La Justice,
j c °ming from the Dardanelles, entered ourhaibour
Wa ' C ' English ships along the
, Ycfterday a small Spanish Tartane was funk by
the fire of one of our batteries ; a figr.al was made
to her—flie would not answer ii ; the battery dis
charged one gun, and the vessel went down in two
hours aftet : the whole crew has been saved.
• LONDON, July 29.
In confrquen t e of the outrages committed by
the enemy's cruizers on Ame.ican property dellin
ed for this country, the Briri/h government have it
in contemplation to fend an additional naval foree to
the coall of America, for the purpose of protcdinj
the trade of our new commercial allies irpm the de
predations of an insolent, daring and faiihlefs ene
my ! !1 6
Captain Woodward, of the America, which *r
nved at Cowes on Wednesday from the-Eart Indies,
things in'eijigence' of thtperfrd fafety of tfieCape '
°' Oood Hope; and contradi&s the report of >
■ c \P l " rc of several hom*waid-bound Jodiamery'
the Dutch fleet. - / V
' ' V-.Philadelphia, r
THURSDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 6, 1796.
Citizen Adet, Minifler from the Republic of France
to tljc Uni ted States, returned to this city on Monday lift
from Boston.
On Sunday last a young mtn, a native and citizen of
New-Jerfery, was called on by one of t)le city constables
to affi'l in apprehending a negro who had robbed his maf
tt-r and ran away. The negro declared his intention to
murder the man who should attempt to take him, and
inftautly difchafged a muflcet, heavily loaded, and lodged
the contents in the young man's leg, which is so severely
wounded, I.hat it is teurecl an amputation mult take place, t (
The villain was, after considerable difficulty, secured and ,
committed to jail.
At in elfcSlion held at the City Hall on Monday the '
t 3d inft. for Truflees and Treasurer of the Mutual As- '
lurance company, for injuring houses from' lofn by fire, 1
s the following gentlemen were duly eletted, to wit : t
Truflees, ;
Matthew Clarkfon, William Richards, f
Isaac Jones, Jol)n Morrell,
Thomas Ewing, Robert Wharton,
John Knight, Godfrey Haga,
James Read, Daniel Smith. c
Thomas Allibone, Cftfpar W. Morris,
George Wefcott, t
Treasurer, ( a
Joseph Sims. t
JOHN JENNINGS, Clerk. v
A T a meeting of a large number of the citizens of
the county ol Philadelphia, fonvened by public notice n
on the 4th of October, at the town-house in the Nor- a
j thern Liberties, for the purpoieof nominating a proper I
person as Governorot the Hate, a-Reprefentative in the p
Congress of the United States, a Senator and Reprefen-- ti
tatives sol - the State L giflature, it was agreed to sup-
port the following ticket—
Governor. „
Thomas Xiifilin.
Congress.
Blair M'Cler.achan.
Sennter. 0
John Pearfon, Delaware County. a
AJfemhly. al
Richard Tittermary.
Isaac Worrell, tl
. Michael Leib, £
Manuel Eyre,
William Linnard, *
George Logan.
Pijblifhed by order of the Meeting, 31
JOHN BROWNE, N. L. Chairman.
JAMES ROLPH, Secretary. at
Mr. Fenno, g!
I accidentally came acrofsthe following- among bj
some eld English letters ;by the date, it wai writ- an
ten many years fmce.
To the Rev. Doflor Moobr.
P , May 4, 1764. ge
Sir, fifl
In the course of the current year, adiuated by qu
motives I trull confident with the principles of u- tai
niveifal benevolence, 1 fubferibed to a colle&ion Bi
which was made for defraying the expence attend of
ing the repaiis of your Parish Church. The Society J«
were pleaied to accept of my fubferjption, and it cri,
is g"-eot pleasure 1 observe, that the building Jo
is, in a tair way of appearing in it» o< igiunl fyhmgorr -ttn
It is well known that long before the circumflance off
of the fubfeription took place, I proposed offering arj
my services to reprcfent the ccunty in the next wii
Parliament : but, as it may be insinuated, that his
iiuifter motives have a&uatcd me in my small do- un;
nation toyour society, I have torequeft; that none tw
of the membeis thereof would consider themselves gif
under the fmalled obligation, on this account, to ma
give me their fuffrage, I had rather lose my e- ter
ledion than your society (hould forfeit the character vai
of Independhnt FREEMENTor that my i4onor ley
and generosity fhduld be impeached, by affoid- tha
ing the remotest cause of imputation on cither. I Gr
hare also to request that you would make the con- thr
tents of this lcttej extensively known. bifl
ex(
Mr. Fenno, nif
Please to publish the following article from of
theAuroia, with the remarks annexed.
Yours, C. wh
AN ELECTION ANECDOTE. is t
A certain great Merchant having some business [
to tranfafi with John Swanwick, the present evii
Member of Congress from this City, and candidate app
for the fame llation at the approaching election, not
took the liberty to represent to the member, that afid
he was injuring his pecuniary intered by the part
he had takc.i in politics. John Swanwick re- r
plied, " that he would rather facrifice his |fhole dar
fortune than abandon his principles." The great yes'
merchant having related this occurrence and dated offii
the reply, which does so much honor to the firm- qui
ness and patriotism of the little member, concluded as i
by emphatically alking his auditors, " whether such aftc
■ man was fit to represent the city of Philadelphia," feiv
What an opinion must the merchant (who in jus- tow
tice to the American character, it Ihould be dated, cba
is a foreigner) have had of the citizens of Philadel- he 1
phia, when he supposed that so praise worthy ade led,
•votion to principle in the member lefTened his claim not
f on the approbation of his fellow citizens ; and how,.thei
indelibly doe« the merchant's observation, mark his H
head and heart with the stamp of folly and depravity thei
If the above is true, it is so partially only. What
Mr. Swanwick's principles are, remains to be known. I
, It is.however, well known what those of his support
ers are; and if Mr. Swanwick's arc the fame, they /
are hortile to the Constitution of thei 'United States, and
to the peace-and prosperity of the people—the u- upo
rion of the dates, and the republican maxim, that tinu
the majority ought tQ govern. Mr. Baclie would Lo\
ehligliten his readers refpedling Mr. Swanwick's
principles by re-publi(hing from your paper of last
Evening, thepiece figned —A Pennsylvania!*. we,
■■■■■ii n 1 mor
BY THIS DAY'S MAIL. Ci*
reafi
ALBANY, September 23. opin
More Counterfeit Money.
i Yclterdr.y a person was taken tip in this city, and
<x;:mi. td befoie Mr. Recorder Taylor, on a charge
ot having knowingly palled a Counterfeit 40 dollar, prefi
hill of the bank of the U«ited States. Several >
counterfeit bills were found upon him. He is com- J
mitted to goal. s
, ran e NEW-YORKT oaober s.
"loft We hear from Duchess county, that on the 2d I
of last month, about II o'clock at night, the houfc I
and (lore of Robert Johndon, esquire, of Carmel-1
en of 'own, was consumed by fire, with a considerable I
tables pioperty. The lofsisfaidto be edimated at 7col. I I
mas- ' ' J J
oa Prom late London Papers.
, and I 1
>dged LONDON, July 28.
erely Yesterday the five Sepoys and three Lascars, who I ]
1 and i Came ° Ver '". the frum Bengal, and who e
weie, some lime fincc, shewn to the king bv Mr. j a
Dundas, at Wimbledon, attended at St. James's c
j the a P elitio "> Paying to be feut home by an f
1 As- ear 'y *hip- Mr. Dundas read their petition, which v
fire, wa * g ia '>tcd, and every sttention ordered to be paid d
t ; to their comfort. 1 hefe men were in the king's J t
presence chamber, as the company pasTed to aRd I o
from the levee, by whom they wer' much noticed. I I
General Jourdan's army marched againd the I c
Auftriang in seven of which confided J a
of 10,000 men.
.The extravagant luxury displayed at Vienna, by [ u
the marquis del Campo Danchania, the Spauifh Ii
ambassador, is the objedl there of general atten- | d
tion. The firft bill of exchange that he received w
'• was for 500,000 Auttrian florins. His sovereign 'I
sos ' laS j°' w ''h him for secretary of legation, aI fc
>tioe ma " who long in that quality at Versailles it
\for- at ar ' s > known for his attachment to lal
, per French politics. But his majesty under the present a
, the political circumdances has thought it prudent not fa
en . to receive him ; he has therefore been tefufed, like Ita
U P baroti Engelftrom, ambaflador from Sweden, and Ipi
for the fame reasons. s;, ai
TRIAL OF THE BISHOP OF BANGOR, h
AND OTHERS, FOR A RIOT. ta
_On|luefday morning about 9 o'clock, the trial v<
of the bishop of Bangor, and others, indicted for cs
an aliault and riot, commenced at the Shrewsbury is
assizes, before Mr. Justice Heath. di
Mr, Adam was brought down from London by I te
the profccutor, and Mr. Erflcine by the defendants. n<
Each of these gentlemen, it it supposed, were paid j th
4 or 500 guineas as a fee. te
The indi&ment had been preferred and found [ vii
at Conway, and was moved by a writ of certiorari, J nc
to be tried at the aflizes for the county of Salop, I m
at Shrewsbury. ■ j f r(
Before fix i*'cJock in the morning, the court be- J 1:1
gan to fill, aßd at half pad seven it was crowded J th
ng by all the neighboring gentry, who were very Iha
'it- anxious to hear this extraordinary trial.
Mr. Ellis opened the pleadings. J wl
The indidtment set forth, that Samuel Grindley, j ce<
gentleman, is aeputy regifler of the episcopal cod- I frc
fiftoVial court of the bishop of Bangor, in contt- Iwl
by quen'e of which he has a right to occupying a cer- J th'
u- tain office room adjoining the cathedral church' of j eel
on Bangui, called the rcgiftcr office, for the purpose Jof
id- of tranfafiiug the business of the said office ; that Iwi
ty J«hn Warren, lord bishop of Bangor, Hugh Ow- jmr
it en, John Roberts, John Williams and Thomas jow
ig Jones, being evil disposed pcrAm*,- -p? of di. Iwh
,T - "-"'tili.g kjiiimtl Lrriri'cHey ;n the exe-.utiol) of liia j raT
ce offiae of deputy-regifler, did, on the Bth of Janu- am
ig aiy la It, moled a'nd diduib the peace of the kmg, J 1101
xt with :he view of removing the said »rindlcy from re f
at his office, by force «f arms. For this purpose they j bui
0- united themselves with persons, to the number ol the
ne two hundred, who broke and entered the said re- I fen
es fitter office, where they remained for an hour, llt
to making great noise and didurbar.ee, and greatly j be!
e- terrifying the said Samuel Grindley, and his fer- jfo
er vant, apd did make an assault on the said Grind I eve
>r ley, whom they did violently beat and wound, so |by
d- that his life was despaired of, faying, that the said tail
I Grindley did unlawfully afTume the said office, and I Eu
n- threatened at the fame tim«, his life ; that the said cot
bifhop.of Bangor, &c. dirrcd up the multitude to Ik
expel the said Giindlcy from his office, to the ma- his
nifeft didutbance of ti»<r kiifg's peace, the danger afli
m of breeding a riot and fpillitig much blood. too
Ihe indiflment contained several other counts, we
which were mere fpecifications of law. The above the
is the whole substance of the indi&ment. dar
f> [Here follows some pleadings, examination of are
n evidence, &c. tut Mr. Erfkine's speech docs not t,ha
le appear—the novelty of the has induced us to vey
u, notice it—we (hall cite only Thomas's evidence, '
at afid the veroift, which was, not guilty.] rop
rt JOHN PHOMAS, fivorn. land
f- Ihe bishop entsred the office in a great paflion, |be
le damping his feet,faying, "fine work, fine work 1" I tre:
yes, said Grindley, fine work in breaking open my of
d office. \ our office I said the bishop ; you mud and
'■ quit it. Ihe bishop then went towards Grindley, ton
d as if he had a mind to collar him. The bishop unii
h afterwards grappled Roberts, one of Griridley's imp
feivants,'by the collar, and attempted to pudi him mai
towards the door. Roberts, chaplain to the bishop, Frt
1, challenged Grindley out to fight, but Giindley said
1- he would meet him another time. y The bishop cal- An
" led > " turnthem out, turn them out." He did tiv<
ti not hear the bilhop fay, the public records were moi
w there, and they mud not remain in improper hands
is The jury consulted about ten minutes, and gave tha
y their verdict that all the defendants were net guilty. Ist
July 30. trfl
( ABRIDGEMENT can
'• Of the STATE or POLITICS, - 0 f
TOR THIS HESK. ta b|
) Affairs have certainly taken a most fcrious turn. Get
1, and the war may be said to draw towards an issue hea
upon the continent. If the torrent ot fueeefs con- moi
t tinucs with the French atmies upon the \jpper and liev
d Lower Rhine we (hall soon tremble for * the
The very Heart of Germany. ons
1 / /" Ita'y der;
we, have never despaired of feeing things afTume a ger
more favourable afpeft ; and though we have still to v
to record events that the bulk of mankind will in
title as successes on the part of France, we fee no and
reason to depart from our early hapes and original I
opinion. The violation of the neutrality of hen
Tufcany, pre |
1 /tnd the fsrcihle Entrance of a French Garrifan at
■ _ Leghorn, whe
r. present, indeed, a fpe£Ucl« which it is difficult to froE
- - ■ » - * •• +V ;
eral look upon, uthout feeling the return of all those
sm- pitied and ja<rd fentifnents, v. i'.h which we have
long behel*} tiat people trampling, with irrpuaity,
upon the lav* and liberties of nation). But if it
is to he coused as advantage, and estimated as fuc- :
2d fucccfs, weisave a very serious protest against that I
use mode of co lidering it. In the firft place, their I
lei- views of t
llumhr of Brttifa Property, i
oh have been diappointed .n aimoii the "whole, by the <
wisdom and of thi'meafures adopted and t
executed byihr ;
FaHory and the Fket. ;
ho In the next,their aimies have been Hill more weak- f
ho ered and dlprrfed.—And laltly, the resentment t
lr. and hatred ps all Italy, have been redoubled and
9*B confirmed. The Brftifr fleet, however, js expelled
an from the 'pott of' Leghorn, and our commerce, a«
eh well as our military lupphes, has been diflurbed and ]
lid diminished in the Mediterranean. If this state of f
;'s things is supposed to be lalting, if the eftablilhment v
Rd of its conquerors is to be esteemed permanent in L
d. Italy, no doubt this acqtiiiition is of the gteatelt f
he coniequence to France, and of serious detriment t
ed and prejudice to Great-Blitain. ']
It becomes necefiary, however, as often as any a
jy usurpation of territory is effected by arms, to con- .f
fh fider its advantages under two very different and a
n- points of view—and perhaps under a third, v
;d which is the-complicatcd r'efalt of the two others, n
tn Theufesof any conqneft during war, are very dif
a ferent from tta final benefit .which is to arise frotn
es it, fuppofingit to remain with the acquirer in peace
to able jioffeffioD at the close of it. In war, to seize
nt a fortrefs or a bairen rock, is often decisive of its
at fate, or at loft prodpdtive of the great eft advan
ce tages; but the occupation of the most fertile and
rd populous territory, which in peace would enrich
and fttengthen the conqueror, is frequently even ®
I, hurtful in war, from the force it requires to main-
tain it ; or can only be eltimated as a negative ad
al vantage in the inconvenience arddiliiefs it may oc
>r cafion the enemy. When ihe robbery, however,
•y is made from a weak and neutral power, in whose
difficulties and calamities the conqueror has no in
y tereft whatever, even this negative advantage is ®
s. nothing ; ahd it can only be considered Amply, whe-
d ther the uses he derives from it, 'more.than coun
terbalance the inconvenience of extending and di
d viding his armies. That the French in Italy can-
i, not, without extreme hazard and imprudcnce, thus °
), multiply themfelve* upon every point, is evident
from the necefiity they have experienced of with-
■- forces from the siege of Mantua into
d the Milanese, and another retreat, of which we
y have already taken notice, '
The hopes, however, of the impel ialifts in Italy, '
which do not only redouble with these circHtnftan- ®
, ces, but with the frefh armies they have received
- from the Rhine, are dearly bought with the danger ®
- which that frontier of the empire has incurred from ')
- the withdrawing of so powerful a force, •■and so ne
f ceflary to its own defence aud security. The armies
: of the emperor, outnumbeied and outflanked (not
t withstanding that heroic valour which gilds the
- morning of every combat with success, and yields ai
s only tothe perfeveranceof atiscks & the frelh troops ' c
■- whi.:h the enemy produce in fcrccJEuj) rticfc ai- ''
> inics, we Cay, nave d"HTy"a~ choice of difficulties, " J
and even of lofies ; for it is there where they can- u
, not he, that.the fuperioiity of force secures to the
i republicans thole successes which they call cwnqueils, (t
but which are in fftdt, furrenderi of places, which
the Aultrians are obliged to facrifice for the de- 111
fence of others, which they eHeem more important.
It is the eternal shame of the court of Prussia to at
behold (from a base a jealous policy) these armies,
so dear and so revered in Europe, struggling with
every difficulty, worn down by fatigue, outweighed
1 by the mass of an enemy they always conquer in de
tail, by giving lessons of valour and geneiofiiy to g
Europe, which she is unworthy to rtceive, and too
corrupted to imitate. Does this sovereign forget -
Ik is I German ? or will he reft upofi his arms till
his own turn comes of fubje&ion and insult, and
assume the defence of the common cause when it is
too late, when it i; tfefperate? Upon this fubjett
we ?rc obliged to leprefs ourselves ; the sagacity, Ei
the ientimentt of our readers will leave us in no
danger of becoming obfeure; and besides, there ~
are,men whose very name involves and exprefles ah Oi
t,hat the bitterness of invective and satire can c»n
vey.
This however appears to be the true policy of Eu
rope at this fatal crisis, to'determine i t any price, j;
and with a/iy facrifice, this court to be virtaoui, to St.
be patriotic, to be German 5 to put an end to that on
treachery which admits the French to the conquest tai
of its country j to that disloyalty, to that obsolete '
,and untimely fpiiit of fail ion which the lad iilep- 1 i",
tors as Bradenbourg could scarce have maintained fir
under the fame danger and prefluie, under the fame mi
impending rdin of the common country of all Gcr- j wi
mans.
Frankfurt ha: fallen, and Mentz. it onct more threat- ha
tned ly the Enemy. ■ of
Are there no arguments, no inducements, no mo- va
tives more powerful and persuasive, no interetts nc
more dear and valuable to J '
Frederic the Third, ' n 'j
than a tolerated crown and a dependant authority ? lar
Is there a vile and malignant fatisfedlion in the dif Col
tress and danger of the Chief of the Empire, wKich VCI
can counterbalance or extinguish all fear, all sense W "
of his own ? Is the calamity of a rival more accep- Ro
table than the commbn advaatage ? the conqucft of an.
Germany less dreaded than the prdfperity of its the
head ? We are obliged to contain ourselves once ai "
more, but still we shall be understood ; and we be thc
iieve our readtrs will agree with us when we state Lo'
the motives we have for p.efling these confiderati- daj
ons upon the public with more than our usual mo- thc
deration. It is because there is an immediate dan- & iv
ger of the Enpcror being forced by thc numbers
to which he his nothing to eppofe, into an —
Immediate Peace
and into what'a Peace ? \
It is not btcaufe we entertain any serious appre- %
henfions from being left alone in this war, that we vw
press the neoeflity of once more engaging 0 f
The slrmi of the King of Prujfia ; be I
who have isheady derived thc greatest advantages
from thc oppafitioit the French have met with on
'
iofe i the continent ; and if it were to eeafe before these
ave thoughts can be printed, we have been placed in a
ity, situation in which it is difficult to eonceive bow we
f it can be injured or even attacked by that nation. But
uc- it is important to the peace, independence, and li
hat bertics of Europe, that %he Continental refinance
leit should be protrafied till France her con
quefta as she has abandoned her principles. Other
wise there is no alternative, that we are able tp dif
the cover, to prevent its final lubjedtion, and overthrow,
ind but the equal partition of power between France
and England : to this the continent will mediately
and eventually belong entirely ; while, to tfiat will
iK- fall the monopoly of the world's commerce, and '
rnt the unqualified sovereignty of the seas.
,nd •
led COWES, Julv 27.
as The America, captain Woodward, from the
nd Isle of France, arrived here this day. She failej
of from St. Helena on the firft of Jijnt, in company
'nt with the Standard rran of war, and 13 homeward
in bound lndiamen, besides country (hips, in all 25
elt fail, and parted with them two days after they left
:nt that place, and touched at the island of Ascension,
The Rodnev, Minerva, and as.other had
ny arrived at St. Helena ftom the Cape two days be
in- fore the fleet failed, and brought intelligence that
nd all was quiet there. Captain Woodward left a home
d, ward-bound fleet off Sciily, under convoy of two
rs. men of war.
if.
>m " '»■ kiiiw hiMn 11 — ■
:e- GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST,
ze ■
its PHILADELPHIA, Oftobcr 6.
Ki
nd
ch . ARRIVED. Days,
en Ship Eliza, Barrowdale, Bourdeaux, 6^
ig Eliza, Yardfly, vHamburg, 6o
- Mary, Jemmeny, Brefl,
,c- Mary, Every, Bordeaux,
:r, The Arethufe, Cook, arrived at CoWes, from
,fe Philadelphia, tnd failed for Amfteidam July 27.
n- 03" Ihe letter bag of the ship Auroia, captain
Suter, for Covves, will be taken from the poft-of.
c . lice this afternoon, the 6th inft. at 5 o'clock,
n- Norfolk, September 29.
li. Yeflerday arrived the ship Charles Carter, Capt.
n- rom London ; she left the Downs the ift
us August, but brings no late newt,
Ql \i /r 1 1 r • tx Boston, September 27.
h . Vefiels left in Demarara, by Capt. Hatch, of the
to . brig Lucy.
Ship Aurora, Brantes, Baltimore.
Brigs.—Friendftiip. Milliken, Poitland } Olive,
y. Tap ra| , Boston: Reb«cca, Jones, Por;fmouth";
n . Bpfton Packet, Prentice, Bolton,
sd e Schooners.-Betsey, P ce le, Salem , Columbus,
cr Smith, Wifcaffet ; Fanny, Cumber, Bolton ; Pol
m Z' ' een,a . l, » ditto; Clarissa, Moulton, Old York •
e _ Hawk, Nicholfon, Plymouth j. Cate, Sangef, n!
cs London. °
'* vrj • , NewburV-Port, Sept. 29.
le Tuesday arrived here sloop Nancy, Capt. Sew-
f rd ' ' 8 da >' B from - Bermuda. Spoke, lat. 41,
p8 ong. 67, 20, the Lynx British ILop of war, V
«* ?"!""? fguad.oH. Spi-ke brnr
Sj Atlantic,, of C 010.,, 3 days horn Portland, bound
Grcndda - Lchat Bermuda, bng
le . ftcr Brown, New-York. Off Bermuda, 4 ,h Sep
•> "™, bcr » m " wlth j" heavy gale, wa, difmalled, loft
i w
6; The fltip Mary, Samuel Swett, matter, of New.
5 tffi. " I*"°°'« ° f
a ßß ,ved: Yo "' oa ° u ' D "- 1
„ * Mary, Tabor, Fa,al .ad Sr. C»r g ° ? £'
ft mini 11 ■■
5 '.for s7Z7,
3 FT,. f le S ant fi ay Hotfe,
-I Fifteen hands hiijh, four vmt« r»i,4
Enquire at No. r ° und -
Oitober 6.
0 , .*»
•e "
1. 0» Wcd'i'Jday evening, the tub infi. at ? a ,
' //y«? LoJfc'e-Hoiife y
Will be Sold by Public Auction.
AtARGE elegant, and well ftMiVd thrc-
HOUSE, (the late refidenct of Gen. Waiter
0 3tewart,|' with a L.ot of Ground thereunto
, t on the Weft fide of Th.rd-ftfeet, near
ft !^ ,n e in 3» f«t, and in depth 100 feet to ,n
e | leading into Union-street. The House is 3a f ee t frlT
.IHd s ° fcct de^P ' the fev cral rooms contained jn it ai ' '
commodious and compleatly finiihed j the two
d firft stories are each tnirteen feet hiVh • therV
P mahogany doors in the house, a geemetnc.d stair-ease
with mahogany rail., and a good fcy-light ■ t h r ti! i
!!" « llir ' Which ," -uUJSei?is '
' f n: i 811 OVen, ' lewho) " and a fcrvanti
*i nf a h nd , larSe W ' ne CCI W Owning tne kitchen, in front
|of which is an area in which is a pump, t |' L ?
vaulted Communicating w.th the said building 'U a
s neat, three-story Brick HOUSE, on the North fide 0 £
Jnton ltreet, contaißing 20 feet front ly Jo ieet
the louver .part of which is at present occupied as ato P '
mg-lioufe, and the upper part divided into wdl
1 large chambers: this Koule, may, at a imall exp.ni" b
convertcd into a convenient, dwell.,,v: the hrre, T'
, ver y- handsome, and the iront and back ha™ V ? "
\v.ndo>v-fliuttcrs. Adjoinine- the laiJ •»' f ycnetiau
e upon the Io L belonging to the firlt are' !"V° at< £ hol,fe » .
- Rooms, e ie g likewlfe ve?y H l,',g
---f and Stables, finiflled equal (or 4 w
5 the city, on a lot, containing on Union-ltre«", I
c and in depth on the Weft, fide of the laid alley ,
there are good cellars under the whole ol the hi , f
and a Wine Room over a part of the Stal lr •, 1 U S»
: Loft over the remainder. -Tpplved not. "
. days will be taken for one half of the purchafc ""
. the remainder on like notes at fix months f»
. given on ihe premifa until 'he whole is '°
. 40«. f °- otman * Auia,
— ' dtiath
be sent to sea at a small cx ? encc. For 7
; oa 6 Gurney Ss 5 Smith.
' dtf.For Sale,
AThrea story BRICK HOUSE and L#t, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second ftrscts, in which
• Messrs. James Calbraith 3c Co. Rave for man> years (and
now do) carried oh business.
i. PofTefljon will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM 2EI-L, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH. jj
April ti. ' }
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufaaory, filiate j
in a convenient part of the city ; the works alm'oft new, T
on an entirely original conftruftion, and built of the best 1
materials, and may be set tp work immediately. Pcrfons
whowifhto pur chafe, are requested to'apply at No. 273, .
\ bouih Second Street. c " n
September 13. t t f tf
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63.'South Third ftmt,rppofite thf national new Bank. T7
CAMUEI. M FRAUNCES and JOHN VAN REED, I
O have entered into co-partnership, under the firm' of cen
: R A -UN CKS & VAN REED, in the bnfinefs of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fijll on commiflion every species of Hock, notes of hand,
bilk of exchange, houses and lands, See.
Money procured on deposits, &c.'&c. all kinds c r i
■writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and 5
dil patch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the 2C
most correct manner. Constant attendance will be given. 10c
They'folicit a share of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavouf to deserve it. —
N. B. secrecy observed. 23
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, 40]
]OHN VAN REED.
Philad. AvgijS -1796. m&wtf 6^l
Valuable Real Eflate, >»g
Forfait at Auction by Cafptr Thtell, of Hamburg,
late the property of fames and William Kinnear. tfl ,
For faleby public auction, on the 9th day of November ; n 1
next ensuing, at the sign Gen. Wafliington, Wood's ; n 1
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county,the follow
ing real e(late, viz. cor
j A TRACTof land containing 465 acres with raa
xX allowance for toads, called the Pufchafe, s ou
fiuated in Brunfwick fownftip, Berks county, patented, ets
iljth 01 Jan. 1788 This trtfi, of which about 15 acres ]
sre cleared,;.s of good foil, fuuated on the or
jilttle Sehuylkill, well waterad and timbered, on which is
eretfled a good log dwelling house and liable.
No. 2. A traftof unimprovedUnd, containing £84 a
cres, with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented 2<ith —-
Odlober, 179 c, situated in Brunfwick townlkip, -Berks
county, foil good.
No. 3. A trafi M unimproved land, containing 376 a- D
cres with allov/ance, &c. called Hillfourg, patehted 48th
Oflober 1790, situation, &c. as No, 2. TA
No. 4. A trail «funimprovcd land, containing 38? a- cit
eres, with allowance, &c. patented 28th of OAober, 1786, '
situation, &c. a» No. 2 ami 3. ( dai
No. 3. A trail of land, containing 268 acres, and 57 tor
perches, with allowance, &c. situated ir. Brunfwick town- me
}hip, Berks county, on Tomagua, or little Schuylkill, 5 anc
miles above the town »f Hamburg, on which is ereiled a
well finifhed two story squired log dwelling house, 22 of
feet by 35, within the distance ofioo perchesfrem a forge, 'wi
with the advantage of a firry and public house; these ad- 1
vantages render this tracSt very valuable. tht
No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, with a Jioft ap]
and rail, or board fence, containing in front, 60 feet, and
in depth iße feet, fubje& to a ground rent of 7/6 per an- pr
num.
No. 17. A town lot in Hamburg, enelofcd as 110 16, to |icc
which it adjoins, being of the fame dimensions, and fubje'd hoi
to the fame ground rent, on which is ere&ed a log liable, rej
16 by 18 feet • ..." at
No. 18. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No. 17,
a corner lot, fronting'tm Maift and Schuylkill llreets, di- tht
menfions the fame as No. 16 and above del"crib<d, sub- re<
jeclto 10J0 per annum ground rent. Op this lot is ex
cited a large 2 story dwelling house, 45 feet front on Main exi
street, by 34 feet in depth on Schuylkill street, pleasantly lar
asd advantageously situated for a ftorej hn
N. B. The above described three town lots wilt be (bid fer
feparatcly or together, as may best suit the purch fers. inj
Cdnditions of file—One third of the purcbafs money
to be paid to the lubfcribers, of either of them in Philadel
phia, at or before the expiration of one month frem the
Hay of sale, vhen a deed of conveyance v 11 be executed ;
the residue payable in2equalp*yments, at 6 and 12 months [S
with intereil.the payment whereof to be secured by mort- J
gage on the premises.
fames Henderfon, _ *1 Assignees to ' P '
Frederick-MontmaUin, '/the estate of -jS
Thomas Rogers, /"James &Wm. S( f
Jbftph D. Drinker, J Kinnear. ft
September a 6. m & th.
—— — f
Treasury Department, [[
September 28, 1796. «
N'OTICE is hereby gi\-n, that proposals will he re- j "
eeived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury '«
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en- «
luing, for the supply cf all rations which may he required \"
for the use of t.ie United States, from the firft day of "
Jnne, 1797, the thirty'-firft day of May, 1798, both "
indufive, at the places and within the dillriils here- «
.Uter mentioned, -viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara ; at «
Pjefqije 10e', at Sandufey Lake, and on Sandufky "
River . at Detroit; at Micliilimackinac; at Fort-Frank- "
. un; at Pittlburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hanailtoa ; «
at Fort St. CLiit; at Fort-J«fFerfon ;at Grenvillc; at kl
Picque Town and i«raniie« Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort W<yno; at Fort Dsfiancc ;at any place iwloftf Fort I,
Defiance on the M ;i, mi River to Lake Eriej at Fort n:
;at Fort Millie ;at any place from Fort MafEac fc
(o the south boundary of the United States on the river p
Mituf.ppi; at Fort ICaox ; at Ouiatanon. ci
If fuppltcs. Iball be required lor any polls or places not is
rcqutioned in this notice, all such fti-pplies shall be fur- g
Bifhed at. prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
'polls before recited, wts maybe hersafter agreed on j
■ between the United States the Contractor.
The rations to be flip plied are to consist of the fol
l«-vi(ig viz. ■ t / c
One pound two onn-rss of bvead or flou*. ol
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen o*oe«s of ft
pork or bacon. ij
Hair a gill of rum, fe.rdj cr whifcay. v
Oat quart and half a pint of salt."> n
"Vv. 0 quarts of Vinegar, ( , , ~. . a
, „ , > per hundred rations a
1 wo pounds or Soap, \ »
One ptawd of Candfet, j
The ration.iare to be furnifbed inluth quatftities, asthat c ,
there (ball at all'times during the said terra, be fwfiicient' /j
for the ct)nuimpi-< n of tbe'troops at Michiiiitiackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the terfti of fix months in
Iv.ince, and at each of th: other posts, for the term of
at least three month; in rdvar.ee, in guod and wliolc'fome
provisions, if the fame Rwil be required, it is-to be un-
Hrllood, that the ContraiSor is to beat the ex »e nee and
. ;»v of ISuir-r»be fuppli.s to the troops ateach foil, and ,
that all loffci fufiained by tbe depredations of an enemy, or I
by means of the troops of the United States, shall be pai4
for at the price of the, erticlcn captured or on
the depolitions-pf tv.o or more person-? cf credttable ch .-
■ jelese, andthe certificate of a commiffioncd oCioer, as-
the ot the lols, and the amount
•fft * ai'ides lor whith compiufation fliall be claimed.
OLIVER WOLCOTr,
Secretary of tht'i reafHry.
JOtiN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
t No. 8, CHESNUr STREET,
* Have Imported in the late vefTels frem Exope, &c.
1 JKO HAVE lOR SALE, V
A general afforttHent of GOODS, suitable to tit Teafonj— W
Amongst w'hich are,
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
Plain and twill'd COATINGS, St;
Rose striped aad point BLANKETS,
FLANNI'LS andBAIs'F.S,
HATS alforted in eases,
e IRISH'LINENS, S<
n INDIA GOODS, generally, \
1S A Confijned Invoice of IRONMONGIRY,
. Comprising a capital alTortment to open a npro—> nc ; u "
ding Thirty of NAILS. This < invoice will be fold
entire on very advantageous tcinar.
Septchiber 29.
Lottery
;. TT'OR raifmj fix thoufind fix hundred and sixty-seven
), I. dollars sr.dfifry cents, by a dedu&iaii of fifteen per
if cent from the prizes, and not two blanks toa prize, viz
s,' 1 Prize of 5000 dollars is tlvliars 5c:00
d I 1000 I°°°
1, X joo 500
J 200 IDCO
20 100 acoo
d 99 $0 495°
ie 200 25 jooo
1. 2000 10 « 10,000
j Last drewn numbers of 1000 dollari aach, 5000-. _
2332 Prizes. 44>450
401° Blanks. J
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars eacfi, 44>45°
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftaMft
mg WefulManul'aiSlures, the fupericitendants of the Pat
erfon liOttery have reqUeftcd the Managers to offer the
' for»g(»ing Scheme to the public, and have directed them
to rf fund the money to those persons who have purehafed o _
T in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets tor tickets _
s in this Lottery.
she lottery has aiStually cqhimenced drawing, and will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blar,ks and Prises .j."
h may be fe«n at the. office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
-> south Second street, who will give information where tick-
I> ets may be procured. ' ■ as
;s Dated {his 17th day of June, 1796.
r J. N• CUMMING, 7 th
15 JACOB P.. HARDEN BERG, > Managers. .
yVNATHAN RHEA, } th
; a " atfe,> w
Samuel Rfchardet,
Respectfully :nfor ms tbe Gentfemc.n <«
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY * x ~
TAVERN an 4 MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSB in the
- city of Philadelphia; .
>, TJiC Subscription be furnifhed wit! all the
daily piipers published in Philatfelphia, NeVz-YorV, Bos- ,
7 ton, Baltimore, together with tHose of the princip-«l coir> - n
1- merciai citi*s of Europe—They will be regularly filed
5 and none jpermitted to be taken away on any account. 27
a Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety ot
2 of Frefluh Liquors; together with the ufuai refrefhments, m
c, will at'all t*nes be procured at the bar.
I- Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with ™
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
ft apppcrved Malt Liquors from London qn\l other breweries. J
d The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earlleft '
i- productions of the Season. , r
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be J 6
:o accommodated with BreaVfafts, Dinners, o * Suppets, at
A hours mod convenient to themfelve*—a cold CoilatioT. is
e, regularly k«pC for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
it'tnG uai. _di
7, The Lodging Rooms completely hiriiifhed, and cs
i- the titrioft attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
5- requisite.
r " Samuel Richardet will be happy to receive, arid
in execute the commands of hrs Friends, and the Public at J :
ly large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges o:
himfelf that nothing on his part ftiall be wanting to pre- C
Id serve that patronage with whiah he hasbeonio diftbaguifh
ingly i'loncred.
:y Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
:1- —
Treaftlry of the United States. a
VTOTICE is hereby given to all pcrfons who are or
, t _ i\ may be Creditors of the United States, for any funis
of the Funded Debt,l>r Stock, bearing a pMfent intenji of fix
■per centumper bHnum. .
t" ill, That pursuant to an Adi of C««gre£i palfed on the
iSth day of April, T796, intitlcd an a<sl in addition<o an -
n. S( «i j intituled " An aCI making further provision for the
fypport of public crtdit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," fee faiddebt or Hock will be reimbursed and
— paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be made <>n the lallfiays of March, June and Septertv
" bet for theprcfentycar, andfrom the year Ofiethoufand f
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou
e- j « sand tight hundred & eighteen indufive, at the rate of ■
ry " one and one half per centum upon the original capital,
n- ! " Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of r
ed December for the present year, and from the year one
of " thoufapd seven hundred and ninety-fever., to the year r
th " one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at (-
"e-' '• the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
»t « ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma eon the last f
cy " day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun- $
k- «« dred and eighteen, of such liira, as will be then a.ie
»; " quatc, according to the ctj'ntraA, for the finaj redemp
at kl tion of tl'.c faii ftodk."
at . 2d. All diftinftion between payments on account of
irt Inter'H and Primifrl being thtis abolished by the eftablilh
)rt mesi of the permanent rule of reimbursement abova de
iic fcrfted, jt Iras become ueceilary to vary accerdingly the i
'er powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public "
creditors will therefore observe that the following farm 1
lot is eftublifhed for all powers of attorney which may b» f
it- granted after the due promulgation ot ihis notice, viz.
the KNOW ALL MEN SV THESE PRESENTS, Hat C
™ I a s I
do make, ecfijiitute afJ appoint
oj my true and lawful At
torney; far me y and in t/fy name y to receive tbe dividends nvbtcb are,
or jbnti be payable according to laiv y on tit (here, dcfcribing the 1
ftoclc) fl.i>td:nr in my nxrhein tbe booh of (here delcribiflg the £
books of the Treasury or the Comniifiioncr of Lc£s,
where the llock is credited) from (here mfert tiie com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
, ns attorney is to coßtinue) ivitb po-iver also an attorney or atior
nies lender him y for that purpefe to make andfvfylilttfe, a/idt<9 Jo all
Lrwful acls r^qmfitcfor ejfc&rng tbsprcmifcs i hereby ratifying and
confirming all that my [aid Attorney or bitfubflit:itc Jball taufui
ent ly do, by 4/irtue hereof. ,
De- in IVitnefs hereof I lave hereunto set my Hand et-.d Seal tbe
* in Jjy of in tbe year j
of Sealed and Delivered c
>nie M prcp-fuccfy ]
un- BE rf KNOWN, that oa tie day of i
an<l cfcre «< perfanally earne
and wit bin named and acknoivledged -4be above IcUr of attorney to be '
'• or bit act and deed. 1
>ai4 In tejlioiony rvbereof 1 have hereunto set >ny Hand mnd affix
on /./ Seal the day and year afcrefaid.
:ha- Given under my Hand at Piiiladdphia, this t^ren
»af- tieth day of July 1796, purfuaat to direelions
from the Secretary of the Trealury.
MEREDITH,
Ireafurcr ef tb} United States.
f. July w & >t I J.
For Sale,
A Complete Font of Brevier,
T?Ntircly ne« , and yet unopened. The w «'g ht of t! " s 1
Fj font is about 3.* lb". It is from die Foundery of
Wiifon & Soirs,Gtafj*ow,and will lie fold at colt & charge . t
Alio for Sale, a pair of Super Koyal Chafes. a
Enquire art the Office of the Gazette ol the Unite t ,
States, 119 Chefnut-ftrcet. ■
September 27, _ ill—
City of Waihingion.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
fOR tHe IMPROVEMENT 0 , THE
federal city.
A" magnificent 1? 20,000 dollars, Sr. ? <0,000 -
<Jwellii)g.-houle, 5 "ft l 3°j° o0 > are 3
1 ditto 15,000 & cast 25,000 40/100
1 ditto 15,000 & csfh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & call) 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,0h0 & cash 5,600 10,00®
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cafli prize of lo.ooo
a do. 5,000 each, are * 10,00®
to do. T,ooo - • 10,000 ■
ao do. 500 - - 10,006
Co do. 100 - - 10,000
ioo do. 5° * *■* 10,000 r
400 do. a 5 - 10,000
1,000 do. 20 - ,10,000 (
y,00<3 do. 1 Jo " -150,000 t
i15,7,-j9. Prizes.
3.iz6i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollan, 400,000■
N. B, To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the pi ize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, arwl the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, fecttring payment in either monsy
or prizes, in ten day? atter drawing, will be received for
any numjprnot less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Wafhingtcn— (
Two beautiful designs are already fele.<fted for the entire (
fronts on two of the public squares; fromthefe prav'ings I
it is proposed to erect two centre and four Corner buildings, 1
as soon as pofiible after this lottery is fold, and to convey - (
them, when cotr.pletc, to the fortunate adventursfs, ]
the manner described in the fchemcfor the fiotel tottery. t |
A nett deduflion of five pet; cent. Vill be made to defray
the necelTary exper.fes of printing, &c. and the surplus *
will be trtade a part of the fund intended for the National '
Unjveriity, to he erected within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
f<*ld off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days -
sifter it is firtifhsd ; and aHy prizes for which fortunate ,
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after ths (
drawing is clsfed, are to be confiiered as given towards j t
thefuni for the Univerfityj it being determined to fettle ;
the whole bufuiei'i in aye ir from the ending of the draw- (
ing, and to take up the bojid» given as security.
The real Securities given for the payment of the Prizes, t
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank i
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a- -
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen tfho by appointment of
the kite Commissioners afiilted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are Yequefted to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf ef the public ; a fuffici<i«it num
ber of these having kipdly accepted.it is hoped that the,
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jedls may continue to favor the design. ,
By accounts received from the different parts of the ;
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets ;
have been font for sale, the public are assured that the ]
drawing '■ '11 fnee*"-'v eommrhap, arrri that the cart and
caution unavoidably n;ceilaryToTnfun: a laic unpuiai
th« tickets, lias rendered the Ihor; fufpeufion indispensable,
' SAMUEL BLODGET.
„§, Tifkets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; o
Janies Wcfl 3c Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Boston
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Walls
Copper's Ferry. eo
Watson's Answer to Gibbon.
JUST RECEIVED,
And for laic by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Cheftmt-flreet,
Apology for Ohriftianity,
In a /trie 1 of Letters, addrejfed to
E3ward Gißßoto, Es<^.
. Autitor of tbe History of the Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire:
; By R. WATSON, d. d. f. k. s. Bifliop of LandafT.
. (Price 75 cents bound.)
1 V/at lon's Answer to Paine,
> To be had at the fame place.
; , T^~ : °f Rfligion are awake ! Let not her
1 friends jlccf.
j Sc ° t ' I- mwftftf
• noti c e.
I 'HE Subscriber, haviag been reduced in his circum
; 1 fiances, by sundry misfortunes, and beinir thereby
. nuiblc to latisly his jiift debts, hereby t<f his
Creditors and tball pcrfens concerned, that lieintendi to
" apply to the General Affcmbly of Maryland at th-ij next
feliion to be held 011 the firll Monday of November ne»t.
for the benefit of ti: aA of insolvency.
" s ■ ' WILLIAM EDMONDSON
t(1 of ■ g;h month. 1796. lawtiftMN
!!- Tobefold, ~
A PL ANT AT. ON, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Glnucclter, and itate of contai'n
c IU S about one Kindred and fifty acres ; a faitable proper
-1 tion oi wnieh is woodland and improved meadow. A
„ great part of the "rablc land is in a high (late of cultiva
tion, and very tiatural to the prdduflion of Red Clover
* °" f a ' d plantation ihfre is a g.-ntcel two-story brick honfr"
with four rooms ..n a fl«or, and a goed dry cellar under'
the whole? together with a barn, cern-cribs and carriacre
- hsulc r f h f w .l a, «e» and contains a goSd collec
tion of the bcit Kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees •
e the orchard consist. of abo.t three hundred grafted applet
e " C "' r P" ! ° n iHdined 10 Purchase said premifes,may
be informed of the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER
f *9 j
To BE J>OLD,
dt AO. 128, North Second-Street, and by feneral oj
tbe Apothecaries in this City.
'|"*R AN >FF.RS of the right to remove pain, and inllamma
pcd ™»!'» thehuminbody, asfccared to Dr. ELISfJ A
irA I l y P alcnt ' wllh i'lfttuments and direftionj „e-
C 'i r°c i'^ e l 5"" - r h,s mo<}c us treatment is particu
larly ufeful is rthev.og pains in the head, face, teethrbrcall,
lice, ltomach, back, rheupiatifnis, recent eouis, &c. &«
Notwuhftanding the utility of this practice, it is no't pre
w Turned but there aie cases , a which thi, and every othc.
remedy may fometimea fill.
r- l une x .
— ■ ■ — ■ ... - law
1- A o be disposed of,
„ '-THE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
A has between f»ur and fiv< years' t,. fc rv , • She
can be recommended for her sobriety and For
particulars enquire at No. ijz, Chefeut-ftrcet
AU * Uft3 - wjUtf
Waihington Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland hi* sat horifaj
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fin tll.oufand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the puipofe of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, from, tk P»-
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME oi No. I.
Viz -I Prize of 10,000 dollars, K5,( joo
I ditto 10,000 K>,(X)9
« 7lad drawn}
Tickets, each } s ' ooo JStooo
6 ditto 1,000 6^ooo
10 ditto 400 4,500
10 ditto 100 lyooO
55 ditto 50 a, 750
S7S° ditto 12 69.004
To be railed lor the Our.al, 2<i,yo
5850 Prizss, If} ,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.'
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Comniiflioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid ail for the pun&uai payment oi
the prizej.
The drawing sf tins Lottery will commerace, without
delay, at soon as tl*t Tickets are fold, of mi hich timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months aftef the
drawing is finiihed, shall be considered as reisnquiftied for
the benefit of 'the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NO-TLEY YOUNG, °
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOJS,
GEORGE WAI.KER,
Wv. M. DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Waihington, Feb. fcl. $
iViordecai Lewis
HAS FOR SALE,
NANKEENS, 10115 and fkort.
China, well allotted.
Quicksilver.
'Diapers
Baftas.
Cofias.
. Bandano Handkerchiefs.
Roll Brimstone.
Sept. 6. tt&fim
At a special meeting of the Bdard. of Du
rcdort for ejlall'ijhmg ufeful Manufactures fholderi
at Paterfon, July 8, I 796,
Tj ESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock-
J\. holders of the Society be called on the firft Monday,
being tha third ay of O&ober next, at I'aterfon, by tea
of the clock of the fame day; then and- there to take
into confidcrdtion the propriety of dissolving the said
corporation, agreeably to the law in such cafe made and
provided—and the Stockholders are earneflly requefled-,
to'attend the said meeting in "person or by proxy.
August 17 dt.;4thO
. i/or Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
Three-itory Brick House,
(The late refTdehce of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOT of GROUND thereurtto belonging
the weft fide ef Third-ilreet, nuar Union-itreet
containing in front 32 feet, and in depth 100 feet, to aa
alley leading into Cnion-ftrcct. The house is 32 feetfrent
» and 50 le£t deep $ the feveVal rooms contained in it are
large, commodious, and completely finifhed; the two firft
ft° rtes are cac h 13 feet high; there arfl-ao.mahiiiianjT
' - 1390r5-irr d. c--hu-rrt", gunneri-icTTt iTirtrcafc, with mahftga
• ny rails and a grjod iky-light. The kitchen is in the cell
ar., whioh is spacious and. convenient, and finiihed with am
1 oven, and pantries, a servants* hall and large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, ia front 'of which is an
» area in which there w a pump The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the fajd building is a neat three-flory
brick hovfe, on the north fide of Ujiion-Oreet, contain
ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; the lower part of which
is at prcfent pccupied as a coxnpting-houfe, and the upper
part divided into well-linifhed large chamber#. This house •
f may at a small eXpense be converted hjto a convenient
dwelling : The ftrpet door is very handfomfc, and the front
and back have Venetian wii}dow-lhutten»* Adjeining the
last koufc, upon the lot belonging to the fir A, are erciled
bathfiig-roonis, &c. There are liftewife very good couch
; house and stables finiihed equal (or nearly so) with any in
the city, on a lot containing on Unipnftrect 30 feet, and
in depth on the weft fide of said alley 52 feet. There vrc
good cellars unde* the whole of the buildings, and a wine
ro®m over part of the (liable, with a hay-loit over there;
niainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD Sc CO.
At their Office No. 64. Dock-ftjeet. between Walnut & Pear
t&f ftreeu.
6fb momh 24th, 17^6.
F 0 R S A L E.
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT 11 miles from this City, situate in Abing
ton Townihip, Montgomery County ; containing
70 atrcs, a new Oone house, two (lories high, 1 rooms ona
tloor, lire places in each, a Hone kitchen and Hone si ring
house, over »n excellent spring of water, a barn, fbWea,
(heds, barracks, See. A large apple orchard, and a Variety of
other'uit, about 12 ocres of good meadow well waicrcd,
and wood fufßciewt for fire, and fencing the place. Poitefli
on njay be had the rft of Ap: il next. Property in this city
w ill be taken in exchange, or MO-RRlSand NICHOLSONS
. Notes in pavmcnt. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, September 13, 179b. ttftf
; FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED r IVI rrEN HA My situate in the
township of Upper Derby, and county ot Delaware,
_ 71-2 miles from Phiiadelphia, and half a mile frogi the
new Wtftern road: containing 23© acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of pi ime wood
l land, and the relt arable of the tirft quality. There are
y on the premifec a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
on n floor, a*id cellars under the whole, with a pump-we3
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, tables,
and other convenient buildings ; a fn\oke-houfe and Itone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are allin clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid put as to have the advantage
1 of water in each of them, whick renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
l.'he iituation is plcafant and healthy, and from thehigk
cultivation of the land, the gjood neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is vary luitable for a gentleman t
- country feat.
' foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harmani
_. deceased, and offered for sale by
. Mordecai Lewis,
Oft. i). tt&f Surviving Executor.
0 PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO,
® —No. 119 —
C H E S H W T-S T R E E T.
[Tricc Eight Dellarj per Annum,}