#afette States, Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
, WEDNESDAT EVENING, NOVEMBER 2, 1796. • (Tmiw/S X.
Number 1295. J _ _
.. ■ " " — I f-. 1 T»L!. T\ * TO" 1- 1 */l . J
" For Freight or Charter to Europe, er
I the Weft-Indies.
The new Brigantine
AMERICAN,
is in romyl'at w-'.-r, and in readme!* for receiving
raodations for pKen- Apply to C.lley,
o» hoard said velM, laying Ae upper fide of th_ iall-
Iloufe wharf, Southwark, or to
Isaac Harvey, jun.
No. i, So. Water-street.
. ,0 diw.
nth mo. lit..
FOR NORFOLK,
Brjgt. Olive Branch,
' Powers Etheridge, Matter.
To (in about the sth November. For freight, apply to
IhecsDtainon board, at Walnut-ftrect wharf, or so
philip Nick/in & Co.
October 31.
'
To be fold by au&ion,
rfTft-. At the Merchant's CofTee-Houfe, on 4th
day, the second of next month, at 6 o'
clock iii the evening,
|BjfjzThe Ship WILLIAM PENN,
!•, Philadelphia built, of cedar and live-oak; burthen
about 360 tons; flic is in good order, now ready to tulce
in a cargo —This ship being well known, it is needless
giving a detail of further particulars, as any person in
l dining to purchase may he kite" d thereof by enquir-
ing of the Cap'ain on h -it I Robert Wain, er
The terms' nfnavmcnt will be approved notes at
fa, 4, and 6 months.
»orb too. 59th. dtW
Bor Charter,
"The Ship Domtnick Terry,
Jacob De Hart, matter : an excellent
vessel, of about 3000 barrels burthen.
Jeffe & Robert Wain.
September 2T. d
Gr Charter,
The Danilh Barque Benhvfntura,
Samuel Stub, matter,
good vessel, of about two hundred
tons bnrtheu. JESSE & ROBERT WALN.
Sept- 17- ' dtf
jr-* FOR LONDON,
The capital ship CERES,
&V*j] T° fail soon :—For freight or passage j
to DAW, ROBF.RTS & Co. or \
John Vaughan, 1
September in. ' "mnt-flhjd* '
For Sale,
X' : 7he Brig MARY,
It*- I.yingat Mcflrs. Willingsand Francis's
wharf,burthen zoo? barrels, built in Philadelphia in 1793 J.
. of live oak and ted cedar.—She is well found, and may
be sent to i'ca at a small expence. For terms apply to
Gurtiey & Smith.
* oa. 6. dtf . d
Just arrived, and will this day be lan- e
ded from on board the brig FAV ORITE at Chefnut 1
street wharf. ' 2
25 Tons bejl Rujjia Clean HEMP, 2
s 6 Tons old Sdble flat I RON, 11
too Coils'bell Ruflia CORDAGE.'aflbrtcd sizes) ''
400 Pk'ccs brown Ruflu SHEE TINGS, a
100 liolis Ruflia DUCK, ti
240 Pieces Ravens do. u
20 Half-down feather beds, and v
A few pieces assorted DI PER. v
FOR SALE BT h
Joseph Anthony and Co» tl
rO-v The above mentioned BRIG I
fi''o 3 fev.- days, and tak- freight on 1
terms tor Bnfton or Salnm, for K
wife»iSiji'-r*,which or pa(fc<>e apply on board or as above
FOR j
-1 he SHIP MART, t
fUkll'd S AMU£L PARKER, Master J
•wo hundred tons burthen; Applv to tl
„ i „ . J° SEPH ANTHONY, & Co. h,
h the M. iR {is not fold in a few clays, she will take ra
freight tor Hamburg. Apply as above. ■ hi
C)d>ober jr. * j
a w
For Boston, Newbury-Port and Ports. }°
mouth, New-Hampshire, e.-i
J"" The Schooner LUCY, l \
\ ® aniel Prowfe, matter; will- fail J„ ag
J ', thtf cour,> of Y veek > and take freight th
f' on terms, for which, or frc
- panage, apply on board, or to ha
Qflober,,. J ° feph Amhon 7' CO. an
For SALE, ica
Schooner INDUSTRY, fm
, »■«.JtttLi'Jtyv c '-, 4
freight very low for Boston. ' 1 take
, OAobcr 24. [ "
' "* d 7 ' 1 '
For Freight or Charter, "
jGKL Ihe . f] "P COMMERCE
NATHANIEL CURTIS vn ' t
r
eam. v terms apply on board at Bright'. w h a ,f " nr f
Joseph Anthony & Co
J -or Sal.' on bout J the above Vefjel \
A quantity 0 f excellent COAL. S
ed mfod th"*r'perafiu 4re e " ncftl y "quest-
Oißobci 41.
diot r
er at* For BRISTOL,
™ e sHip
PHILADELPHIA,
J Therfdore Bliss, miller.
A new (hip, on her second voyage, with the heft
accommodations for patTengers, and is intended tofai l
with all (XDeditien. For freight or palfagf apply c
, , tt.e Matter on board, or to <
,u! Thomas & John Clifford:
Who have just imported in fiid vefftl, and have for
sale, besides their general aflortment
<-f IRONMONGERY,
A quantity of fine drawn and common fllarp at d
j flat point NAILS ; double & single rolled Sheet Ire 15
Iron Pot 3, Kettles, and Iron Weights, ot all ftz-3; (
London and Briftoi Pewter in calks, assorted ; br te:
r, of Tin Plates; cases of Men's, Women's and H ys'
Hats ; crates of earthen and flint Glass Ware ; crate.*
yto of Phials; boxes of Window-Glass ; boxes of ong
and short Pipes ; Copper in Sheets ; Oval Quart Bot
tles in hampers; also, a few casks of bottled Ileer,
and two bales of Superfine Broadcloths and Caffi
meres.
Oflofcer 27. m&thaw
4th For Sale,
' °' By Jehu Hollingjworth, & Co.
25 hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
W 5 Barrels best Indigo, and,
. A few thousand bufliels of Turk's Mand fait.
h f n oa. 17. ' i.
ake l .
Sale by Audion,
lir- — 1
er To be fold on Saturday evening the sth of November, at
7 o'clock, P. M. at the Merchants' Coffee House.
'■. 'Itt» j u;v^r4f<X7coMw i.i'cut KU
nortli fide of Market,between Seventh andEighth-ftreets, '
r each house with the priviledge of an alley is 16 i-a.feet
front lot is 150 in depth.
One two story brick house in Zate-ftreet, commonly
called Sugar alley. The house is 16 i-z feet front, on said
alley, with a good kitchen ; the lot 15 90 feet in depth.
Oae vacant lot,adjoining the said house, in Zane-ftreet,
16 i-z feet front, arid 90 feet deep ; ,at the end of 90 feet
CIU the said lot widens 33 feet; and runs back of the Marke'
street lots in feet, 33 feet wide.
One two story brick house and kitchen in Zane-ilr ,
16 Z-1 feet front; the lot 45 feet in depth. 1
45 acres of excellent meadow land in Greenwich,,
which will be fold either by small parcels or 12 acre lots.
50 tons of excellent upland hay. Enquire of
KA t HF.NRY SEC]£EIj,
GEORGE COQFFR,
d HENRY SHE \FF,
re ABRAHAM WILT, or
EDWARD FOX, Auiftionser.
osober 19.
I ... r
The Creditors of Clement Biddle & Co.
are requested to meet at the City-Tavern, 011 Thursday
e the loth inft. at 6 o clock, P. M. in order to procure
R from the aflignees a fettlemrnt of theii affairs, which -
or have lain »ver thsfe twelve years: the fobferiber's de
mand is for a returned bill of i.oool. sterling, damaTes %o
percent, and intcreft.
- George Meade. ~
Nov. 1,1796. lot
FOR SALE,
n An elegant HOUSE, No. 78, Walnut- " J
iy m street;
WHICH is 25 feet fror.t, by 171 f eet deep, with a
lot adjoining, ao 1-2 feet wide, by 72 feet g' inches
- r feP ' L,?!? J S back ot ' house occupied by
George Willing, Elq.) The house is completely fmifh
-- ed in every refpejt. It i s J0 feet de , us twQ
,ut large p .rlours, the front ode 24 feet, the back one is v
22 feet, by i 8 1-2 feet, a handlbme drawing-room,
24 1-2. feet by 24 feet. The rooms helow, the draw
ing-room and the chambers adjoining, have mahogany
doors, and these as well as the rooms above them have
a commurncation with each other. The height in the
hrll *],t second ltory is 12 feet, arid have ftoco cor- "
n.ces and nine rooms up flairs, besides the garrets,
whichl are: divded into three rooms, a good kitchen
wash-house, milk and bathing-h'oufes, a large ice- T
house, a pump 111 the yard, and a 3 feet ■> inch aliev - 1
that leads into Fourth-flreet, The cellars "are laid with _
lime, and floored with two inch plank, and plastered P
on The yard is well paved, and the house is clear of „
or S rou " d -rent. All the rooms have bells in them and
bells nr.gin the. garret, as weltas j' n .j, V
flairs. All the chambers havet hte" e,
: xCe Pf, th - n --t to the drawing room, M
a» w ell as the drawing-room and the two parlours be
low, marble chimney pieew. The drawing-room, the 1
» jf« b, k i,uii£nj.* ' t ?,™ ;£"■ 'iiTh/™;, *" d
tsrift-T ,i,u " r •" ;::L
- , w ' h ; (he whole cellar and the ceck
- t n" e a V V t P ' aftcrtd any room in the h ou £
ed P°offi.ffl e fl!'« ! f ev(,ry , ' tf P ea completely fr,i(h-
I f g ' ven in te " da Y s the ho; . e re '
S fold. Two brick liable, in Walnut-street, with
two coach houses. one of them will hold two cl
n ages, the other one. The smallest 'tahu ar ' —
r front on Walnut-ftrefer by 50 feet, , inche- rle P n TV, Oi
have excellent lofts over them. The buiMin '
S Sr? :r "°-™ h '■ 4
- ren riflb 1 P 'P eS of wina : clear of ground' *
on Fourth-ftrpflf Kxr c 1 ' '''• «eet riont
on rourtli ltreet. by 50 teet deep, which might at a K <
fnwl. expence beturned ihtoa handfomcdwelling house Sw
having been so contrived iathe building. ItZiVv°"rd
48 feet 6 inches wide, by 24 feet deeps has a rain wm
. er pump, and other conveniences, and the celhr is la,d Ch
with two inch plank, and is now rented a' 10 <] II tfca
per mo nth . This building i.s fubjecl to a Sos Ya
■1 do lars 3-4 per annum. The i ore and LhWT wl U Bt:
give immediate pofleffion of. re and ltables I would flu
George Meade, 6d _;
oa. 26. No " Walnut Street. of I
FOR~salet~ — ~
f l ' 6 °°. acres of Land,
and Beech C^eks/ifficounty/s^ 1 C
four separate Patents, for tern"' I [" ~
Wm. Blackburn,
Otfofcirjr. *4, S»uth Second-, 'Ireet. 1
ir-vftf j
For Sale,
Carolimßice in whole and half tierces;
A Cotton of Cayenne and Trinidad, «
> Soal Leather, entitled to drawback,
Botlnn Beef, and
; U M.mld _*!id dipt candles.—Apply to
V|l Isaac Harvey, juh.
c No. 5, South \V»tor-ttr*st.
For Sale,
° By f. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Conftflhig of different ftzes, from 1 z inch cables down
„ # to rope of 2 incites, of different lengths: Imported in
; the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
P Sept. 27. . dtt "
£ JOHN MILLER, Juu. & Co.
of- . No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
er. Have Imported in the late vessels from Europe, &c,
AND HAVE 10 R SALE,
\ general assortment of GOODS, suitable to the feafori—
Amongfl which are,
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
Plain and twill'd COATINGS,
Rose striped and point BLANKETS;
FLANNELS and B \ISES,
HATS assorted in cases,
IRISH LTNENS,
INDIA GOODS, generally,
_ A Confignrd Invoice of IRONMONGERY,
Compriling a capital assortment to open a {lore—inclu
ding Thirty Cadksof NAILS. This invoice will be fold
entire on very advantageous terms.
at Septgmr.fr 10. d
Ad. Sales in India Goods.
tc The Cargo of the ship Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
l>ct cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
l] 7 A Large and general afloetment of Bengal and.Madras
a,d l\ COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
«t variety fine worked and plain Mujlins,
e t Dorea;, life. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent .Sugar,
» In boxes' and bags—and BL'ACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willfngs & Francis, *
No. ai Penn Street.
J«ne 8 §
For Sale,
AThree-ftory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second ftrcets, in which
JamesCalbraith & Go. have for many years (and
now do) carried 011 buftnefs.
PcffMlion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
a * ' HECTOR CALBRAITH.
" April 11, «
ch ——« - —;
!e - 70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
ZQ • /
Of the bejl Quality and on reasonable terms t
or s • 1. r. B Y
Philip Nicklin Co.
Auguf* s6; dtf
For Sale,
This d<vj Landing from on hoard the fijip Concord,
Captain Tbompfov, from Amjierdam,
G'n, iii pipes ]
a Empty Gin Cases
cs Hock ill cases of 4 doz.
ly Glass Tumblers in chests
:i- Sweet <i 1 in e?.fcs
r o P -tte GfalTe Cheese in boxes, &c.
is Alf 6 Landing, by ,ibe I.outfit,, Capt. Bell, jrom Lijbon,
1, 60 Quarter-casks LiiTaon Wine.
v- On Hand,
,y A quantity of Brandy, Hazle-Nuts in fades, &c.
Peter Blight.
u Prober 17. daw eo2w
r- : —— — .
s> Just Arrived,
'> By the Fly, Captain Hubber, from London,
Double racked, Brown Stout PorTer,
in hogsheads.'
J. Painters' Colours, in 1-2 and 1-4 cwt. kegs, packed in
hogsheads.
Copperas in hogsheads. \
' Whiting, «c. For Sale by
£ Peter Blight.
is O&ober i 5. t dxttsaw
; e " The Cargo of the Polacre Indeperfdent,
0 pAP TAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif- 1
n VJ bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
.{ i 8 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanish wool R
e 3 do. of Antiifeed K
„ 7000 Bushels of best Lifbnn Salt n
, So Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hoglheadsof prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
. recen-ed hy the ship Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart, L
t from KingUon.
- d 4
; landing,
. Out of different vrfe/s from England, and for file SI
__ h 'be fubjeribers on reasonable terms,
1 Sup;ifine ar.d common cloths, and caflimers
Ribbed and liriped do. do.
Blankets , mottled green and silk rugs.
Suptrfine blue, Claret, and cemmon costings,
Kerseys, Bear-flcins, plains and Halfthicks'/
Swanikins, SergC3 and Flannelsj
British Ingrain Carpeting,
jlatsafforted in cases of 1 z doz. each. 3
ChocoluL- chintzes, printed Callicoes and Handkerchief: C
Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
\arn, WoHlcd, and Cotton hosiery, *6e,
Beavers, 1 hickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, £cc. &c.
BuFapd drab oenoa Cords of a superior quality.
6d. bd. iod 12d. aod. nails, and frying pans,
An assortment of Ironmongery, Cutlery and a variety —
of India cotton, and silk goods.
Thomas & JoJhua Fisher.
«,r , , No - 5, Dock-Rtrect. ofl
Also by the Glasgow from Dublin,
1-8 ajid 4-4 Irifli Lirens affortedin boxes of 30 pieces, we
do. Brown, Glazed Linnen.
oft - r ?- dtf. -
University of Pennsylvania, F
Oflober 5, 1796. 4
T he MedicalLedurertcill commence the firft Monday
in Novsmber. taw 3 w
This Day is Publifhsd,
And fold by JOHN ORMROO, No. 41 CI» Triut-ftr«t,
f Price oneJixteenlh of a Dollar.)
A POEM
' On reading the Prisident's 4 .ddrefs,
WITH A SKETCH OF THJ
CHARACTER of A CANDIDATE*
r o -a rue.
P RtSlVt % ft C Y.
This elegant little Poem is printed in a form to be bound
, with the President's fareWeil adiireis,lately published by
John Orrarod.
November i.
vn Imported in the late arrivals from Europe and the
Wejl-Indie.',
Holland Gin, in pipes
— Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique Molafiss, in hogsheads
Choice old Lisbon Wine, in jjipes and quarter-calks
, c London Particular & London Markef Madeira Wine",
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-calks
Malmsey Madeira Wine, in pipes and quarter-calks
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes
Russia & Flemish Sheeting and Ravens Dusk, in cases
Window Glass, 8 by 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in calks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in bo*es
Also, or. hand,
A few cherts of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bjrk ; Affafce
tida arid Tapioca ; and a few ba ! es of Cofiaes,
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Mifflin Harcdker
!u- chiefs, and a complete aflortment of 5-4 3'.J 6-4
Did Botilting JCloths.
For Sale by
Pragers £f? Co.
Oflober djwmJt'hirr
al- A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS.
ras John Miller, jun & Co.
Exclusive bf their own Importation now opening,
r Haye received by the William Penn, Caroline, and Diana
CONSIGNMENTS,
Which comprize a capital aflortment to open a
Dry Goods Store.
—Amongfb them are—»
Common, Fuper and fuperfine Cloths,
Plain, twilL'd and Itrip'd Coatings,
Baizes and Flannels,
Point, rose and dufifil Blarikets,
— Plain and puritea CafTimerefc,
Swan/downs,
lUt Printed Calicoes,
Seotch„Threads,
nd H°fiery
-1 hey will be fold either in whole, or in part, by the
package, on terms which render them an ebject worthy of
attention to purehafers. dtf Oil. 21.
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGHr STJfEET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Well SeltSed sfsSOKJTAtFVr rf
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, en the very
lowest terms ;
"> Amongjl which are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muflini
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
n> Mantnas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firit quality, afTorted
lriih Linens, very fine, and Table Linehl
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets afTorted—&c. &c.
Oiftobsr 26. j
Country Rum,
And a few pipes of Vinegar,
' For Sale by
n Ezekiel Hall,
At the stores of Mr. Edward Stow, jun. No. 4,' South
Watcr-ftrcc-. October to. d
Printed Calicoes.
: JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
f. Hav e received per the William Pcnn, in addition to
their own alTorment,
A consignment of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele
gant London patterns ; also a few cases of handl'ome
•iuttons Which will be fold at a short credit, on very
reasonable terms, by the package only.
° a - T 4- dtf
Irifli Linens, &c.
Imported per the /hips Glajgozo, from Dublin, Liber
ty, from Cork, and brig Mentor, from Bel faff,
4-4 and 7-8, Wide IRISH LINENS*
In whole and half boxes,
AfTorted from i id. to 4s. sterling—Also 5-4 w ide
f Sheetings, and low priced yarn and worsted Hose. *
On Hand,
7*B Wide Lawns.
Diapers and Table-Cloths
A few boxes Tickens and Checks
A few bale' s Fir anels
Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, Nos. 1 and 6
25 Boxes } f" 6 by 8,
10 Ditto J. Window Glass, < 7 by o
J Ditto J C. 8 by 10.
\ t . Th , e above mentioned Goods are all entitled to ths
'drawback, and will be disposed of by the package on
0, -afonable terms.
v James, Clibborn & English,
. , No. 6, N. Front-street.
10th mo. 19th.
Washington Lottery.
The 32 and 33' d Days Drawing are arrived at the
office No. 147, Chefnut-ftreet.
Prizes in the above Lottery are exchanged for ticket*
warranted undrawn.
° a - *7- tt&s
At No. 63, N. Seventh-flreet,
Four Gentlemen may be accommodated with
Boarding and Lodging.
November 1.o
Hit PANTHEON,
And Ricketts's Amphitheatre,
For Equestrian and Stage performance*, Corner ot
Chefnut and Sixth-streets.
THIS EVENING, Wednesday, November z,
Will be presented,
A variety of pleafingEntertainments,
EQUESTRIAN exercises,
By Mr. Ricketts and the reft of the Company.
SURPRISING
FEATS on FOUR HORSES,
By Mr. Ricketts, iMr. F. Ricketts, and Mrs. Spinacuta.
AND FOR THIS NIC-fir ONLY.
The whole to conclude with the favorite and fpiendid
PANTOMINE, of
DON JUAN;
Or, The LIBERTINE DESTROYED.
Under the direction of Mr. Sully.
As performed at COVENT GARl)EN?forty nights
with unbounded applause.
Don juan, Mr. Sully.
Commandant, Mr. Tompkins.
l over, Mr. Durang.
-Fisherman, Mr.Cofiie.
Sailor, 'Mr. F. Ricketts.
And Scaramouch, Mr. Spinacuta.
ift Fi(herwo»afl, Mrs. Durang,
id ditte. Miss Robinson.
And Donna Aana, Mrs. Spinacuta.
An accurate description of the Pantomime to be hsd at
the ticket-office.
The favorite Ptntomine of the Death of Captain
'Cook, is in rehearsal, and will be brought forward in
a few days.
jf. Mr. Ricketts assures the public, that he will spare no |
expenee or pains whatever to make the entertainments
of the Pantheon as agreeable as possible.
TO-MORROW EVENING. Nov. 3 ,
Will be pvefented,
A variety of new Performances.
[Particulars To-Morrow.J
gT Days of Performance to be Monday, Wednef
. day, Thursday and Saturday.
gjF Box, 7s. 6d.—Pit, 3s. 9^.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Ford, at the ticket office in
Chefnut-flreet, from ten to three o'clock each day.
On fhurfday morning at 10 o'clock, on Morris's Wharf
near toe Drawbridge, •will be fold for cash in lots »f
S hogsheads
Seventy Hogsheads of Coffee, 1
Of a superior quality, and 6 barrels do. do.
Landing from the copper-bottomed Schooner Expe
dition from Port-au-Prince.
FOOTMAN &
Nov. i, ' n.
Three 100 dollar Notes.
WERE LOST This Day, about zz o'clock, j
One Hundred Dollar Bank Notes of the Bank of ,
Pennsylvania, between the Banks of PennfyWania and
North-America, in the alley that leads into Chefnut
flreet, or in Chefnut-ftreet. Whoever will brirtg
them to No. 48 Chefnut-ftreet, (hall be handsomely re
warded. October 29. jt
WANTED,
A \¥©MAN who is capable of taking care of a Child
and who will occasionally do other ftrvice in a fmail fa
mily ; a good character will be necessary. Apply at
No. 109, Sprace-ftreet. o<sfc. 27. 6 j
Just Imported,
Jn the fchoouer Lucy, Capt. Prows, froft* Maderia,
and to be feld by
ELLIS TON & JOHN PEROT, \
Best London particular Madeira Wine, J
Three years old, j
In pipes, hogiheads, and quarter calks, lit for im
mediate use.—They have also for sale, .
A few bags of Juniper Berries. x \
Ofloher 2s. W&S4W
just Landing,
At South freet-viharf, from cn hoard the /hip Sedg- 1
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peterjburg,
The following Goods:
Russia Sail Duck, firfl quality.
Do. Sheeting 40. 1
Do. Diaper. i
Do. Huckaback. t
Do C«Mfeh : c
Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to lb. of "tire j
English size.
Do. White Candle Tallow. c
Do- White So;.p m small boxes. "*
Do. Cordage of fine yarn. 1
Ravens Duck. j
Isinglass, jfyand 2nd fort.
Horse Hair uncurlcd.
Russia Bar Iron.. • '
Do. Hoop Iron. 1
Df>. Nail Rods. #
10 Tons Oakum and Junk. (
St. Pcterfbtirg Hemp;
For Sale by \
Philips, Cramond, & Go. ]
OAobei* 12.
11 ■ , ■—— i
Benjamin and Jacob Jofenfon, '
No. :47, Market-street,
Have received by the Lift arrivals from Liverpool and !
Hull,
A very generalafcrhnent of DRT GOODS,
WelJ suited to the approaching fnfon, which tliey wil
Tell on the lsweft terms by the piece or paika~e
oawb "- <•>■ nw 4 w
Imported in the late arrivals,
An/' to be Sold by
JACOB PARKE, -
No. 49, "North fide of High-street, Philadelphia,
A CENKRAL ASSORTMENT OF
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c ,'
AWOKCST WHICH ARE j !
SIMirHS Anvils, Vices, and Files; Saw-mill, Croft- ! .
cut, Hand, and other Saws; Carpenters' Plaues, Chisels 1 ,
and other l ooI«j Carving Chile!* and Gouges; Locks'l
Hinges, Bolts and I.atcles; NaiU, Sprigs, Tarts, and j
Screws; Frymg-Pans J S.no.thing.lrons; Shovels and
Tongs; Coffee Mill.; Candlrfhcks; Smrtfcr,; Warminc- '
Pans; Taole Knives iuid Pork. ; Hiding V. hips • '
low Pen, and other PoAet Kniv,,; R *2o„7&iW 1
Needles; Ivc;> and Horn Combs; best Kirby Fish
Hooks; hi aft tab.net Furniture; Boxes ; Sheet ,
Brcms; plated and t.n'd Briait Bits and Srirruos- dirm
Sa c dle Nails; ( i.th ajld Straining Webb»; wit]' niof)
kids of Iroumoogcry, Cutlery, iadlery, Bract Wares '
See. Ax. » |
OA«b«r 24. * _ r,
tnwf6w i
For Gazbtte of the United bfATts.
PHOCION—No. XIV.
IT will not now be denied, by any person ac
quainted with the state of pDblic affair* at the a
larming crisis io the summer of 1793, of which we
, have been fpeakmg, that Mr. Jcfterfon wr.B averse
to the President's ifTuing his proclamation of neu
trality, and that he.advised the calling together of
congress, deeming the proclamation a step too im
portant tn reft on t-he Prefident'i bare authority.—
. Whether this advice proceeded from "a secret with to
involve us in tvar, or from a conßitutional timidity,
is immaterial to the present queltion : certiin it ife
1 that such a ttcj) would have been fatal to the peace
and tranquility of America : certain it is, that Ge
net, and all the Jacobins of the country, and all
the democratic focietiej, were exttesnely anxious
sos such a step: and while they rested all their hopes
of war on the meeting of congress, there was no man,
' who valued the welfare of this country, who did
not then shudder at the idea of such a calamity.—
For had congress been convened in Philadelphia in
the summer of 1793, bringing together all the pas
sions which had been artfully excited ia various
partsof the Union, finding a mass of pafiions ready
prepared in the metropolis, operated #n by all the
wiles and intrigues of Genet, and the mancsuvres
of the democratic foeiety, congress would, malt un
t doubtedly, have been driven to some intemperate
aft, of which war would have been the immediate
1 consequence.
' If it was so difficult to restrain a parly in congress
( from carrying hojlile measures in the winter follow
ing*, when ihe passions had confidetably abated,
when the pnblic mind had manifefted a marked wifii
for neutrality, and when Genet's influence was al
most fruftrated, how imjjoffible would it have b:l£
to have refilled them, in the midst of thelc agita- 1
tions, which convislfed the whole nation, in
summer of '93, in the midlt of those political trm
pelts and whirlwinds which were then directed by
Genet ? The few rational and moderate lovers of
peace, instead of being listened to with that atten
tion which their opinions afterwards excited, would
have been silenced by the overwhelming acclama
tions of a faftttioas entkujiafm, and swept away from '
- their ground by the itrefi/)ij>lc torrent of exafpera- '
f ted passions. '
We-ll might Genet wish for the calling of cod-j ]
igrefs,* when he found that he could not mould the-: 1
executive to his views : well might he rave and
threaten, when he found the advice of the secretary
of state, on which he had depended, over-ruled in 1
the council, by the difcrction of the two other fe- :
eretaries, and by the wifclom and firmnefs of the !
Piefident! '
ihe letters which Mr. Jefferfon afterwards wroft t
to Genet and to Mr. Morris, and which have been ]
quoted by his friends as evidences of his opposition
to Genet's intrigues, prove only, that Mr. JefFerfon '
pofTe'Fed political sagacity enough to forefee, that '
had he, after the public fentimcnt was fixed, per- ®
lifted in encouraging Genet, he would, like his less 1
cunning fucccffor, have been difgracefuliy JifiT.rffed 5
from office, and, like htm, rutned in the public ef- !
timation : for, like the friends of the iiifun eftion .
when they saw the government strongest, he there- j
fore made an ostentatious display of " his leal t» '
maintain our independence and fclf-goveru|tient."
It is evident, that Genet considered this conduct as
a defedion'from his eaufe ; for in his letter, referred
to iu the note, be complains bitterly of Mr. Jeffer
fon's treachery and abandonment. He tifcs, in
that letter, these remarkable expressions : '• Bcfides
fir, whatever may be the refnlt of the *tckimment
of which you have rendered yourfclf the generous
inflrument, after having mass me BtLtEvt that
row wbre mt ritEND, after having initiated m: \
into mysteries which have inflamed my ha '
TRED against all those who aspire to an absolute '
POWER, there is an aft of jtiftice," Sic. page jo. '
Here Genet complams of, jefferfon's treache- !
roufly becoming the inltrument of his recall, after
having per Wed him that he was his friend, and '
initiated him into myferies of state, which had in- '
fkienced Genet's hatred against the President, ant! J
the reft of the adminillration ; in fact, after having
caballed w,th this foreign agent, ?nd by calumnies
against the executive, inflamed him to hatred arid
excited him to resistance. Again, page 73, Ge
«et lays to him, in the language of rep.'jach, " If
L have fhevsn fnmnefs (in opposing the President)
it is, became it was not in my chara3cr to fpeai as
many people de, 111 one -way, and att in another, to
an language, and a language con-
HDKNTtAL." 0
Nothing further is necessary to prove, beyond a
doubt, the improper encouragement which the se
cretary of ft..te bad given to Genet to refill the
Ptefident 3 authority ; were any further proof re
<jmr,te we might refer to the writings ot Uelvi-.
T* written in the month of ¥ 0 / r by a f «.a.
W friend of Mr JefFerfon, f or \{
pose of provtng that the President had no authori
ty to iffiie the proclamation of neutrality, and in
vmng the people todjfobey it; we might refer to 1
the "vatio#* which prevented the recall of Gt
net, which did not take place till the 161 L Augufr
£2Sr as -7 i .!° r d " hcd,h < P "f'dent
a, early as June, and which objedio.s , nd J rlay
must have an.en altogether ftom the division of 1. f
which ex, the cabinet; ,0 what lifer
cause can we afenbe the delay of demagog the
,recall of a totngn agent, who had gro% ; tl f a ; te3
' * In his letter to the feeretary of state (printed C«r
< timents of the -henhi- to £, /. ' aK e the true fen-
United States, dec£ he
suspend, or tighten, their bonds'with France"
measure, wcnld have avoided to the
much contridiclion and fubtetfyg?." £o»"nmcnt
f These writings were so much suited to Gehei'-
vieiA-s, that, ui his letter to feffrrfrn 1 "
h f & y. .7 -ai join tb7ttl
- which I meant to nrnfi-f# f c £ l
have been published here, such "J'l'aok o7v'"
*uv»«u s ," Sec. Page 70 ° f Venta8 '
? the government of the country, from the begin
ning of June to the middle of Aug lift, but to the
powerful ftippurt which that agent found, even In
the department, where his conduit was molt noto
rious, and against which his attacks had been the
c " molt outrageous ?
a When finally the meaTure of recall was agreed
ve upon, and the fecrctary of 3ate was at no loss fur
' e materials, on which to predicate it, when the Prefi
u" dent's opinion, as well as that of the public, be
came too i.npofingto admit of further hesitation,
n " then the fecrctary, to whom the talent of epistolary
- composition is not denied, produced an ab.e ietUr,
to in which he endeavored to make atonement by ele-
T> gance ;ind energy of (tile for his pit'vious mifcon
dudt apd oppclition.
:c 1 shall conclude this number with the following
f " remarks; id. Thecircumitance of Mr. jefFerfon's
being an enlhujiaflit admirer of the French cause
** (as Hampden delcribes him to be) is far from re
es commending him," in the judgment of all real A
"> mericans, to the prtrfidency. The President of the
d United States ought to bc~jm enthufiaflic admirer of
- no cause, but that of his own country; enthusiasm,
in in a politician, is closely allied to error and pa//ion,
f* both of which are the bane «t good government :
ls but enthusiasm for a foreign country leads dire Sly
y to subservience and- devotion to foreign interejls :
ie a chief magistrate, tntba/iajiicelly attached toFrance,
:t will therefore soon become a devoted tool ef France
>• 2dly. 1 cannot discern the merit of Mr. Jeffer
e sow, of having, as Hampden exprefTes it, forborne
:e to faenjice the independence and ftlfgovernment of
hi& own country even to the glorious cause of
fs France; what attachment mult that man have to
r- his own conntry who could, for a moment, consider
1, thu, as meritorious ? Were the fact as Hated
!i (which I deny, and the contrary of which I have
I- proved) I (hould never be induced to view, as rqe
£ ritorious, the mere forbearance to be a traitor to
i one's country, by Sacrificing its independence and
fclf-gove i ament to the views of-»
• PHOCION.
,f fOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
j MR. t^KNNO,
THERE is lomething so very extraordinary in
Q thc fubflance of the communication of Citizen A
det, in the mode by which it is notified to the pub
lic, and the particular junflure of doing it, that it
mult exoite no less alarm, than enquiry into the cau
e; fes which have led to it.
The principle laid down by Citizen Adet as the
bsfisof the late decree, is neither wai/nnted by the
I ulage of nations nor the laws of neut/ility, k would
' annul all treaties, as soon as either of the contrac
e ' ting paities found it convenient, for he eftablilhes it
as a principle, " that a nation at war is not bound
t " to observe 3 treaty, whenever that treaty tends to
;1 " her detriment, by being advangeout to her ene-
" my " What use is there in a tieaty if either of
the contrasting parties may break it, as soon as
t they find it injurious ? Was not the article of the
treaty, to which the decree alludes, made with a
view to a w,ir between France and some other na
j tiojuJis United States remaining neutral ? Did got
i'rance know when (he agreed to that article, that,
1 h 'he law of nations, French property would be li
able to feizute in American bottoms i Was not the 1
law of nations so dated to be by Vattel, a writer
, of high authority in France ? Did not France then
_ make the (tipulation with iu>, in contemplation of that 1
j inconvenience, of which (he now complains, with the
expectation of being compensated for it bf the ad- '
n vantage she would derive from the operation of
othei parts of the treaty ? What pretence then can '
• file have now tor complaint, when the United
s States have pursued the law of nations, the '
law cf neutrality and the treaty ? None whatever. 1
France may, for a time, avail herfelf of superior
force to moit'ft us, but her condudt towards us malt 1
be condemned by every impartial tribunal.—The 1
mode of announcing the communication is no less '
remarkable than the eommunicatien itfelf : an of- 1
r c ' a ' u °tification by a foieijjn ruinifter to the <rxecu- 1
1 ''ve of the United States, is printed in anewfpaper
(hoJßle to the executive and to the government) be- '
I'n' r , "" c [''' ve l' as l een >' '• ■' The Jirfl notice the 1
, 1 "Jidtnt will have of this communication and de
-6 C , rCe , Wl i be . thc read "'g 'I in Bache's paper ! ! and
. , ltfc !f dcclar « th.it it, Jhall hot be
ted ! ! Ihe time it which it is siadeis no lels worf
f 5* ot 110 tice—Citizen Adet he will cause this
note to be printed, i» erder to make publicly kaiwn i
s V ®k'ch,at,tlie prtfent junflure, influence '
3 f republic-. Why at thc f rrfent junSure,
wnije the American nation is engaged in the
choice of their chief m.gillrate, when the f,m,cau
a es have exifterf Jot ibret yean, vvitl#.ut producing
. thls c4crec • Citizen Adet tells us " that the Frcnth
t xovernmint find> itfelf, with refpeS to America, at i
- .< \ Ue i ctrcu, rjl a »ces fimijar to ihtfe vf '
93- I'ellov. C i i/CKS ! remember '93 • Genet
then openly iiuerfued in the diredion of our no
. V^ n,mL ; nt » difl.-ed to the President, and appeal. 1
- j 1 , f "rt ' U lhl » pnbliea.ion of Citizen A
- tVrt "u 'L a ". apt ' alihe 11 is lime > h <
people flioiild be heard.
Nov. I, Q n( 0 J p eo p] e _
• FCR THE GArETXE OF THE UNITED STATES.
, Amongst the extraordinary circumitance, that 1
• fiom daily oblervation we experience, there is none I
mote rema.kdble, than that the greater the advanta
i f. C ' lhe ( o derive from their liberty,
iiTV ~: r a, r r !hf critica! jS
r ave JHtSeito foond out bur,
1 I" 1 « «*her they mult under- ,
hn! cA,vdy « ov< : rn and h frt i
they will become both governors and the govern'*!
u? t m th vcrr lm » P ; aAu able over ,l,is 1
y, or they must be governed by their reprefenta- i
Wh< "? the y have constitutionally appointed to 1
ST-J5 Whe " «« tl,e y l-e determined up
r"CW o - IV « ?° dC ' 31, d haVC their I
3 w iue m nf r ' ge i: aie Ch f oi " ° f re P ,c 'entativci ) ,
y attempt on thc part of any number of indivi i
' arirt is abfoiute nfuipatioti and down- I
, t And yCt ftrai '* c as 11 ma y seem, ,
a certain set of men amongtt us, who affJme the ,
' ariftocra ° f 3Rd down wit! '
= anftocracy, arrogate to tlicmfelve, a «. o^ill , le ,
i- power with those they have chosen to cotaama,
c them. Incapa.le of bciring the very power
« have intruded, they want to dociery thin? o f th-m
'• reive*— to debate for the fame, to judge for "the
e magiflrate, and to enforce the laws f«i the
tive. u '
d Were thi. the cfe. generally, virtue could no
,r longer ex. ft » the republic. I will alk, what che
i ceult) the confiitutien have contained, which is „ n T
to be found m that instrument, restraining the re
i, prefentative from opprcfltve measures '• He "
y fanaion no law which will not have it, full
-, on .limfelf, as welhason the whole society T'
, has always been deemed one of the strongest ,i es T v
, which human policy can conn,-A the- ruler, a,
people together. If a spirit of domination
r ever be introduced, so as to tolerate a law not „i
, gatory on the legiflaturc, a, well a, 9n the peon!,'
: ' he f C L °P le W1 " be -o tolerate any i
. but liberty. Duty, mtereft, gratitude, arc -l lc j*
. gaments which bind the repreieniatives to hdilitv
= al,d fy»P«tl»y with the great mass of .he comm.!
t »ity.
, What then are we to underrtand by theobjedßo# '
, which this paper combats Jx What are we to ex, e >
: from the men who profefs the mott flying zj for
' re P«h'.camfm, yet boldly impeach the funi.menH
: principles of it > wno pretend t« be champions for
, the right and capacity of the people to chufc their ,
own rulers yet maihiain that they will prefer tfcofe
. only who will infallibly betray thetruft committed to
' ,he ™ ? Nothing but anarchy and confuiion, difor.
ganifation and disunion. The charge of a eonfpi
racy against the libei ties of the people, and the ner
■ petual changes which have been rung upon 'the
wealthy and the well born, have been such aato in
fpirc general difgutt, and excite the indignation of
every one who feels within himfelf a refutation of
thr calumny.
Let us now pause,- and ask ourselves, if the un
warrantable mil" -qncfen utiuas jxjnch have been
pratitwert-, and-wt« varmtts faliehoodS .7S>kYf have
been industriously circulated to influence the ap
proaching election, defeive not the reprobation of
all honest men,- and be not of a nature to demand
great precautions against the repetition of those
pra&ises, which ha*» undermined the foundations
of society, planted diftrult in allclaOViof citizens,
occasioned an almost universal prostration of raotals,
and finally ifliied in the subversion of good govern
ment.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
BOSTON, OiSober 25.
FOREIGN NErrs.
We have again an opportunity of presenting to
the public the latest news from Europe. The treaty
between France and Spain, is clearly demonftrativc
of the inevitability of a Spanilh and Engli k w.,r;
a sudden pease only can prevent it. Jourdaa conti
nues his retreat ; and private accounts fay, hie ar
my baggage has aheady re-crofTed the Rfiiiu
Frankfort is re-taken. Moreau is said to have re
ceived a check. From this gloomy.informati®n, the
ftiends to French fnccc-ffes may turn with rapturcift.,
the official kttcis of Buonaparte, whdfe vidoriet,
in quick succession, increale in brilliancy and im>
portance.
1 here are no official letters either from Jnordan
or, Moreau, in the papers we have received, later
than those publiftied incut tail.
I he king of Naples, it is said, is again in hofli
lity with the French—(Bojlon Mercury.)
Extract of a letter fiom a iioftonian in Bordeaux,
* September 14.^
" A decree has been pafi'ed by this government,
wlrtch permits their armed velfels to take any refFels
under neutral colours, which may have enemy's pro.
perty on board; declaring, I hat, in futurt, the flag
(hall not neutralise the goods. This, you will rc
colleft, is diredly contiaiy to an exiiling tieaty. —
One belonging to Chatlellon, and bound to
that place from Bremen, was, in coofcquence of
this decree, brought in here a few days lince j but
nothing could be proved againlt her, and she li3s
been released, with a very handsome sum for de
murrage—which is some confutation for wanting
faith in'treaties.''
A letter wxsyeflerday handed to us dated Havre,
September 6, Hating* a report was in circulation,
|j that itlr."Moiirec ism *iJ*iru h. IWtfi
ty-four hours, and that war was to be declared a
gainlt America. In conftqucnce of the alarm ex
cited by this report, the writer inveighs mo# acri
moniously againlt our treaty with England, and its
makers ; but a few days proving the eiror t>f the
rumour, probably restored him to good husnoyr.
Veibal information from Halifax dates, that ad
miral Gaiunei', wilh a fleet of ten fail of the I ne,
had arrived on the baiis of Newfoundland. Sevt
' ral victuallers had arrived at Halifax from England.
Tho' accounts of Newfoundland mention Bull's
Bay as a hamlet of huts and hovels we are told,
there were many large and handsome houses there.
Late/} of the Army of the Sambre and
Me use.
ENGLISH ACCOUNTS.
From the London Gazelle, Sept. 23*
Dispatches, of which the following are copies.
hsve been received from Capt. Anfliuiher, by the
right hon. Lord Grenville, his majelty's principal
fecretaiy of llate for foreign affairs.
Head-quarters of his royal hishnefs thearchduke
Charles, Windeckcn, September to.
My zok'Dt . , ,x •
I haveihe'fatisfaAionof informing your ordlhip,
that the progress of the AuliriiUi arms continues to
• be marked by brilliant and uninterrupted fuccets.
His royal liighnefs thearchduke, having qJ'
his camp near Wuirzburgh on the 51b, pu!he< on
a strong advanced guard, under* the corji'aiii o
lieut, gen. Kray, to fecurethe De Bone wo tie
Spefrart. That officr, arriri.ig in the neigto"^-
hood of Afchaffeobourg in 'the afternoon oMne
9th, found the enemy, to the number of tw« 1 °
faad men, polled so as to difpuie the pa » ,
sorest. After a severe cannonade, which laßra 3
considerable time, he attacked them wilh much Ipi- |
tit, diovc them froin ilicir advantageous ■
and hi* cavalry, dill purluing them wit iout I
: tiou through the town, dispersed them m the W0014... I. ihe other fide of the Mcjn. The loss of the !
I -lemy oa this occasion amounts to above a thou
,:d men, of whom fix hundred are prisoners.
The archduke advanced on the 7th to Afchaf
fe wheie the main body halted on the Bth
—but intelligente being received that the enemy
F hi'! abandoned Frankfort the preceding night, the
* advanced guards were pushed on-fuccelfively to the
Ki tzigand the Nidda.
On the 9th, his royal highness marched to Det
tingen, and on the 10th to Windecken ; the ad
vanced corps occupying the important point -of
Friedfcerg.
£ " Ten thoilfand men, drawn from the garrison of
Mayenc*, have advanced towards Konigftein (which
v»as abandoned by the enemy on the Bth) and will
|£ be .1 very effentiai reinforcement of infantry la the
I army.
Tlie coiifrquences of these rapid and decisive
[ movements have exceeded the of the
' molt ting nine, and have unifoimly fruftrated the
tlefigns and efforts of the enemy.
Jourdan, jwlio after the action of the 3d, had
\ dirtied his retreat on to Fulda, was Hill in hopes
of gaining before the archduke, the strong pofi-
I lion of Bergen, where, reinforced by the two di
t vt(i*irs which had been left behind in the neighbor-
I hood of Frankfort, he might have checked for a
ttirr.e the progress of the Auftrians. In this view
he arrived by forced matches at Sehlaititern, on
ft. the great road from Fulda to Hanau, in the even
irg of the 6th ; but finding that the duke was al
ii ready matter of Afchaffenbourg. he gave up his
P- attempt ; and, turning to the rijjkt, directed his
Jf march across the VogelTberg, towards Wetzlaer,
\Vhere, it is reported, he is endeavouring to assem
ble his army.
From information of the mod authentie qature,
relative to the ptefent firuation of the French troops,
i I can venture to assure your lordship, that they are
Bjn a state of the uttnoft eonfuflon and despondency.
A great part of the iftf<Tr,tr/"liave thrown away
' their arms, and are almost naked. Their retreat
has, all semblance of order, and has become a
tumultuous flight.. Excefiive fatigue has probably
destroyed more of them than the sword ; and the
continual dread they apprehend of a general rising
K- of the peasantry in the countries they traverse, has
spread a panic among them, which renders thqm
deaf to the commands of their officers. The loss
i which Jourdan has fultained since he advanced from
may be estimated, without exaggeration,
jff at twenty tboufand men ; a number which must be
F daily increased by desertion, in the piefent (late of
his army.
\ The condu£t of the French, during their abode
C jn this country, has exhibite.l a scene of depravity,
which is degrading to human nature. Robbery
and peculation have been universal in every rank
P »nd in every department of the army.
Every species of violence has been exercised an
the persons as Well as on the properties of indivi
* duals. Many villages have been reduced "to ashes,
6 without the existence of even a pretext for this aft
; of barbarity; and the countries, through'- which
their armv has pasTed, exhibits every where a spec
k lal'lr of the ntmoft d«folaii(>!'_an<l_Htftr<-f».
I have the honor to be, &c.
r. anstruther;
Capt. 3d Guards.
ARMT OF IT ALT—French Accounts.
•Buonaparte, gen. in chief of the army of Italy, to
the executive directory.
Head-qtiarters at Trent, 20th Fruftidor, Sept. 6.
*' Citizens Directors,,
« The division of general Maffena, pasTed the
, Adige, 011 the 16th, (Sept 2,) at Galo, and arri
ved at the Alps on the 17tb, following the great
a road of the Tyrol; the fame day, at two in the
morning, our cavalry, sabred the advanced polls of
-the enemy, and took from them fix pieces of can- .
non. The division of general Angerau quitted Ve.
rona at the fame time, and bore upon the Heights
p that feparatethe Venetian dates from the Tyrolcfe.
" The division of general Vaubois departed at
the fame time from Storo. By the left fide of the
lake of Garda, his advanced guard arrived at Tor
gola, where he was joined by the brigade of gene
ral Curetife, who had himfelf embarked at Salo, on
the lake of Garda ; his advanced guard, comman
ded by the gen. of brigade St. Hillaire, met the
I enemy at Sarca, routed them and took fifty priso
ners.
" On the 17th, at night, general Pigeon, com
manding the light-infantry of general MafTena's di
vision, informed me, that the enemy in force had !
< retained the village of Seravale, that he had recei
ved orders to attack it; that he had forced the ene- 1
my, and msde 300 prisoners.
" On the 18 (Sept. 4), it day-break, we found
on'rfclves in the presence of the enemy ; one of
their divisions occupied the impregnable defiles of I
Motco ; another beyond Adige, prote&ed the in- f
; trenched camp of Mori. General Pigeon, with a 1
part of the light-infantry, attacked the enemy with f
his riflemetf ; brigadier general Victor, with the '
18th demi-brigade of infantry, pierced b,y, the great <i
' road ; this inflant gen. Vaubois attacked the camp c
of Mori ; after a vigorouscontell of two hours, the fl
enemy every where fell back. t
Citizen Marois, my aid-de-camp, carried an c
order to gen. Dubois t« advance the. id regiment
of Huffais and pursue the enemy. This btave ge
neral put himfelf at (heir head, and decided the as-
fair ; but he received three balls, which mortally
wounded Mm. One of .his aids de-camp had just 11
been killed at his fide, an instant afterwards I found "
the general expiring—" I die (said he) for the re
public—WoulS that 1 had time to know whether
the victory is complete,"—He immediately expired, a
" The enemy retired to Roveiedo. I ordered b
general Rimpont to pass with the 32d brigade, be-, o
tween that town and the Adige ; general Vi&or, in o
the mean time, entered at full charge, theynain- .tl
ftieet ; the enemy again fell back, leaving a great
number of dead and prisoners. During this time
- gen. Vaubois forced the entrenched camp of MoVi,
and puriued the enemy on the other bank of the
Adige. It was one in the afternoon, the enemy
profited of the difficulties of the country to front
us in 41 the defiles, and effected their retreat to
Trent. We had then only taken three pieces of
eannon, and loo© ptifeGers.
r " General Maflena caused all the half-brigade 1 !
1- to rally, # and give a moment's repose to his division,
during which we went, with two fquadroosof ca-
F- valry, to reconnoitre the Hiovements of the enemy
h in their retreat. They rallied before Callieno to
y cover Trent, and give time to their head-quarters
e to evacuate the place. Though beaten all the day,
C their position before Callieno was inattackable. The .
Adige almost touched the steep mountains, and for- j
:- med a pass of 40 toifes broad, closed by a village,
I- and elevated castle, and a good wall, which joined
if the Adige to the mountain, wheie they had placed
all their artillery. New difpolitions were neceTary.
if General Dammartin began a cannonade with eight
h pieces of light artillery. He had chosen a position
II which commanded the narrow parts of the aaoun
e tain. Gen. Pigeon pasTed with the light-infantry
upon the right: 300 riflemen threw themfclves up
e on the (hore of Adijje to commence the fufil
e lade ; and three demi-brigades, in a cl?fe column,
e and in batalions, pasTed the defile; the enemy har
raffed by the lively fire of out artillery, and the
3 boldness of our soldiers, did not refill the m»fs of
s our columns, but abandoned the entrance of the
- pass. Tertor spread through all their line. Our
- cavalry pursued. Citizen Marvis, with 50 hufiirs,
• gained their head, and (topped the whole column
a of the enemy. He crofTed it, and was himfelf fur
/ rounded, thrown upon the ground and wounded ; a
11 part of the enemy's force marched over his body ;
- he is severely hurt, but none ef his wounds are mor
tal. The chief of the ift regiment of hulTars is
s killed. Citizen Flifliere, captain of my company
s of Goides, saw two pieces of cannon, on the point
, of escaping ; he flew upon them with five or fix
- guides ; and, notwithstanding the efforts of the ene
my, (lopped the pieces.
, " Six or seven thoutend prisoners, 25 pieces of
, cannon, 50 caiflooas, seven (tandards—fuch
e fruits of the battle of Roveredo, one of the mofl
. fuccefsful of the campaign. The other loss of the
r tSTiiVy omft have been contrtierabhf.
t "On the 20th, at Bin the morning, general Maf
i fena entered Trent. Wurmfer had quitted it in
1 the evening, to take refuge by Baffano. General
: Vaubois, with his division, soon marched in pursuit
r of the enemy, whose rear-guard was entrenched
3 L#vis, behind the river Lavifio, and guarded the
i bridge which it was necessary for us to pass.
j " General Dellcmagne, not without much diffi
-1 eulty, pasTed, under the fire of the enemy, at the
, head of the 25th demi-brigade. General Murat
; passed at the- head of a detachment of the ioth J
f chasseurs, carrying an equal number of infantry. L
General Leclerc, with three chasseurs, and citi
: zen Defaix, chief of the brigade of Allobrogi, n
, accompanied by twelve carabiniers, had been *
r able to turn the enemy, and place themfclves in 1
: about half a league in advance. The
enemy's cavalry, as they were saving themselves at
1 gsllop, found themfclves flopped. Eeclerc was
. (lightly wounded. The enemy endeavoured to open
, a passage, but the 12 carabineers crossed their bay
onets, and formed an inattackable rampart. The
1 night was already dark ; 100 of the enemy's huf
. fars, and 3or 400 infantry, with one ftandaid of
Warrn(er J ' bvffs-W, taken.
" You may soon expect a more bloody and de
cisive battle.
(Signed) "BUONAPARTE."
BULLETIN TELEGRAPH.
LISLE, September (9,
" The army of Italy, pursuing its conquest, hat,
beaten the enemy in fix fueceffive battles—takcß
16000 men prisoners, 20(tandards, 70 piecesof can
non, imrr enfe magazines, and 45 leagues of coun
try. The wrecks of the army, with the general,
are surrounded by the lepublican army.
(Signed) «• CHIAPP..."
Philadelphia,
1 — •
WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER a, 1796.
The President of the United States arrived in town
the night before last from Mount Vernon.
GLORIOUS FEDERALISM of VERMONT.
RUTLAND, Odtober 24.
At the late election of a for the
eastern diftiift of this state to eoiigrcfs, the whole
number c# votes was 3,018. Ofthefe2,93i were
for Mr. Bnck. The scattering votes amounted to
but 88, of which not "more than three were for the
fame person.—We are happy to find that Mr.
Buck's exertions, "and federalifm, haVe met with
the universal approbation of his constituents.
lonbon, Sept. 23.
Hoffman is retimed from Paris, whither he had
been dispatched by the Danilh rainifter for a pass
port for a confidential ageßt of ours to repair to;
Paris tor the purpose of opening a negotiation for
peace. Mr. Hoffman's reception it is /aid was fa
vorable ; and the answer which be brings from the
direaory, though not divulged, is said 'to be con
ciliatory. [Other accounts state that the French
dill infill on the redu£tion of our fleet to 40 fail of
the line, and the ccfliou of Gibraltar and Jamai
ca.]
At a meeting of a number of citizens, at Qg.
den's tavern, New-market ward, Odtober 29, 1796.
The two tickets for eleanrs, which have been pub
lifted in the news-papers, were read, and it was una
nimously agreed tofup®ort the following as a trutly
Federal and Republican Ticket.
The fame having been framed and recommended
at a refpeftable meeting of a number of the mem
bers of the legislature, and other citizens, the Iriends
of order and good government, from different parts r ii
of the state, immediately previous to the rifino- of'
.the assembly, viz.
Israel Whelen, Philadelphia,
Samuel Miles,
Henry Wynkoop, Bucks, bo
John Arndt, Northampton, v • . on
• Valentine Eckhart, Beiks, ne
Thomas Bull, Chefler, mi
Robert Coleman, Lancaster, re '
John Carson, Dauphin,
William Wilson, Ncrthumberla-nd,
s Samuel Pofllethwaite, Cumberland,
, Jacob Hay, York.
Benjamin Elliott, Huntingdofi,
f Ephraim Douglas, Fayette,
o John Woods. Allegheny,
s Thom?.t Stokely, Washington.
» On thotion it was resolved, that the following
e address to the citizens P.:nnfylvania, be signed
" by the chairmsn and published.
Fellow-Cititrnt,
At a period when the peculiar situation of our
country calls f»r no common (hare of wifdotJt, pa
triotism aod finnuefs in the- chief magillraie of the
United Stales, are we summoned to the choice of
ieleflors.of a PrrGdent and Vice Ptefident, and on
the ptwdence of tbat choice, will in a great tnei
fure depend our future p ace and happinefg. Whilll
the desolating sword of War isdeftvoying the fail
ed countries in Europe—Ametica is kept in peace.
The wife and prudent system of policy, adopted by
our present adniinillration, dispelled the ck>nds
which for a while darkened our political horizon,
and ft cured to our country prosperity a«d happiness.
We are now to determine, whether, approving
of the meaiures adopted by George Wmfh'ington, and
fenCbleof the tleffings they have conferred on our
co»ntrv, we will choofc eleflors who have uniform
ly evinced an approbation of hiscondudt, and may
therefore be expedted to give thyr fufTrages in fa
vor of men who will probably continue the fame
fyltera of wilt and patriotic policy.—lf such be
our determination, the perfbns now recommended
will naturally become the objects of our choice.
To the prudence of those republican eitiiens, sin
cerely attached to our national government, we may
fafely eutruft the power of making appointments
so important and interesting. «
With na'defire of dictating to our fcllow-cili-
zens, and with no interest but what is common to
all, do we address you. The hapjiinefs of our coun
try is in-- 'jived in the choice that (hall be made, and
we thererjre solicit your warmest exertions in sup
port of eta rafters whose fuffrages will ensure the
, peace and prosperity of the United States.
GEORGE LATIMER, Chairman.
Attest. JOSEPH HOPKINSON, Sec'y.
New-York, Nov. t.
Arrived at this Poit. Days
. Ship Union, Wallace, Copenhagen, 68
John, Hoffljore, ditto, 69
Brig Hunter, Pcrker, , Leogane, 34
Sloop Almina, Bebee, St. Thomas, 10
The (chaoner Atlantis ftom New-York to Ja
maica, is carried into Aux-Cayes by a French pri
vateer v -
List of Prizes and Blanks in the
VVa/hington Lottery, No. 11.
33d Days Drawing, Odl. 23.
No. Dels. Nv. Dels. No. Dolt. No. Dolt
287 10 12445 10 *8<73 691
593 39207 906 10
885 346 40046 10
10 54 561 63? 181 50
£;i - 6yj -ytf 10
7j7 848 10 347 10
364 15J04 853 10 527
250 593 929 10 546
2/4 847 997 JO
362 10 16149 5° 30205 691 10 '
492 *'5 "7 10 971 10
7?« 10 371 270 41168
849 10 1741J 10 574 10 654 10 1
3J49 18167 10 597 812 10
3.55 191 672 948
533 246 684 41144 10 '
4779 10 640 31491 405 1
950 19663 954 10 953 I'O
5C03 31291 986 43626
823 22036 32681 to 820 ' r
851 10 919 10 898 908 10 <
6363 if 46 33053 44029
815 30P02 10 055 067
7°3* 120 10 134 331 (
252 10 348 314
43» 35 362 10 361 10 780
Bxßl 867 833 45268 (
309 to 938 34595 46881
580 34511 803 10 * 968
9763 to 25344 33553 47631 10
772 391 725 49928
10635 709 36036 063 10
78l 10 363C8 3702? J I4 , 0
111S9 346 10 188 365
376 10 562 38113 20 678 10
595 17582 10 833 763 10
603 28404 39189 850
897 10 344 »
33d Days Drawing, October 34. S
Nr- Dolt. No. Dolt. No. Dolt. No. Dais.
5»» 9067 to 19334 36376 ' 3
1166 223 10749 10 361 10 *
34* 987 813 10 561
35 s Ilioj 31672 10 788 3
890 xo 729 10 23979 10 900
a 'j7 9 6 3 33169 38768 a
342° 13418 499 yyj v
587 10 13280 34643 39058 ■'
860 639 35312 10 40523 g
9-8 ie 824 486 10 540 r
4321 898 10 571 41148 10 A
380 14398 27056 10 332 c
4? 3 533 835 583
492 15403 29235 899 I
578 443 654 41039
°9 2 5C6 946 .43006
7°5 545 30581 45047
9 34098 553
S ° 3S °5 7 733 744
3°7 516 815 892
31' 18118 33104 46788 10
048 10 IBj 34*39 10 981 1
"49* " 6o» 35635 47569 t
730 19035 36137 4925# f
*593 20 101 186 369 5
Error in the 30th days drawing—lnftead of 38607, '
read 39697. blank. '
GLASS ENGRAVER!
Mrs. Dejcamps, from Paris.
Informs the Public that (he has just opened her store,
North Third Street, No. 95, where (he engraves with
borders, flowers, garlands, cyphers, figures, escutche
ons, &c. Ib the mod elegant, fafhionable, neat, and
new stile, all forts of glades, and glass wares on the I
molt realonable terms. All orders will be thankfully 0
received and pun<S~ exaiuted. '
Glazie? rfCampS CXeCUtCS My thin s ' n tbe l' na of a a
Nor. 2. . „
Jt. .
To be Sold,
AT PUBLIC VENDUE.
On Thurfuay the 6tb day of April next, at 12 o'clock.
at Dougherty's tavern, in the town »f U'inchejler,
. in Virginia, the following lands, situate in the /'aid
a
No. 1.—430 Acres,
Of excellent land on the waters of Back-creel:, in
Frederick county, on the great road leading to the
South Bjanch, aliout ten miles from Winchefler, 100
ir acres of which is rich bottom, "a fine ftreim running
through it, with several fpi ings, the trees in the bottom
e are chiefly sugar maple, black walnut, hickory and !o
cuft. There is a log dwelling and o'lt-houfes, ibme
m-adow made, and 40 acres of upland cleared. Otx
n this trafl there is a gcod roillfet, where an under
'■ shot-milt might' 1-e tfefttd.
II No. 2.—800 Acres.
Situate in Hampshire county, on the north branch
r. of the Potovrmack, snd on a branch called Cabbin-run,
„ about eight miles from Fort Cumbcumd. On this
l s tra<S is a large quantity of rich bottom, fit for mtadovtf
or the culture of heiftp, the upland remarkably good,
'' being chiefly timbered with walnut and hickory. The
'• ; above tra«ft is in two surveys of 400 acres each.
£ j No. 3. —200 Acres.
J Situate in Franklin oounty, about ten miles from
ir Winchester. On this tratfl there is a dwelling house
1. and par' of the land is cleared, the remainder is finely
„ timbered.
No. 4. —A Lot of Ground.
In the town of Woodftock, Shanandoah county,
whereon is eredled a two story house, and other im
e proveraents, and a ten acre lot for the couveniency of
c ' laid tov.n lot.
No, 5.-—250 Acres.
1- Situate about two miles from Woodftock. . Part of
y this trail is in eultivation, is finely timbered, and a good
5 quantity of meadow maybe made.
No. 6 —400 Acres.
j_ Situate in Hampshire county, on George Andes's mill
run, on a branch of the Cafapckoa. This trait is finely
timbered, there is good bottom land, whish might be
easily converted into meadow.
d No- 7. —One moiety of 5000 Acres.
Lying on the waters ef Hughes's river, in Harrifon
e county. This was purchased atone quarter of » dol»
iar per acre, cifl> a,bove 8 yean ago.
1. No. 8—41,900 Acres.
Lying in the counties of Wythe, Washington, and
Grayfon (the greater part in Wythe,) on the water*
of Cripple creek and Fox creek, branches of New Ri
ver, and on the south fork of Holftein.
'» No. 9 — io,ooa Acres.
8 Lying'in the county of Hardy, on the waters of Grefit
9 CUcapion and North River.
4 The terms of payment will be one third part of the
Q purchase money to be paid in haud at the time of ex
u erutirg the deed or deeds of conveyance, the remaining
. two thirds to be paid in equal instalments, it 12, 18,
and 24 months thereafter securing those payments by
mortgaging the premises.
Should any person wish to purchafc at private sale,
t application may be made to John Holker, Esq. near .
Wincheiler; David Holmes, Esq. as Winchester; or
by letters, (poll paid,) to the fubferiber in Philadel
phia, being the owner of said lands, who >yill person il
( ly attend the sale en the day abovementioned.
George Meade.
o Philadelphia, ad of November 1796.
c diww&s 1 MdtA.
0 __ . _
To be Sold,
60,400 Acres of Land.
Lying on the river Alleghany, in the county of Nor
-3 thumberland, in the State of Pei:.fylvania.
. 400 Acres Land,
In Bald Eagle tewnlhip, Northumberland county
3 aforefaid,
3 60,000 Acres Land,
Lying on the waters of the Oconee a'nd Canouchee
5 rivers, in the couuty of Wafhinjjton, in the state of
Georgia.
3 174,000 Acres Land,
Lying on the waters of the Ohopee and Caaouchee
rivers, in the county of Montgomery, in the state of
3 Georgia.
31,033 Acres Land, '
Lying ik Orangcburgh diflnfl, in the state of South
Carolina. And,
9 . , >46,986 Acres Land,
Lying in Charleston diftriifl, in the said state of South
Carolina.
An Half acre Lot of Grond,
In the town of Richmond, Virginia.
The above Lands will be fold low.—Apply to
> - George Meade.
, Philadelphia, 2d November, 1796. diww&stf.
' Caution.
The following NOTES have been STOLEN from
the lubfcriber, on the evening of the 31ft ult. allper
ions are hereby forewarned from receiving the fame.
One, Robert Morris to John Nicholfon, dated March
3d, 1795, and payable April 8, 1796, for dollars
1 823. 93.
And one John Nicholfen to Robert Morris, dated
and payable as above, and for the fame sum.
The above notes with other papers were contained in
a Green Morocco covered almanack, and were ftolcn
with a quantity of slothing, from the piazza ofthefub
•fcriber. The clothing aonfifted of one drab coloured
great coat, 1 do. clofr coat, 1 dark mi*ture do, 1 olive
mixture do. 1 brown silk morning gown, 1 old black
, silk cloak, 1 child's giett coat, coating, ; do. cloak,
cloth. '
A handsome reward will be given for the Pocket
Book and papers, by
James Tadd,
No* 26, So. Front Street,
uthmo. id. drw. '
A HAT loft. ~
' THE gentleman who, in mistake, took from
Jfudge Peters s chambers, on Tuesday morning, at. en
tirely new and falhionable round HAT, and left in its
Head another much worn—by fending the fame to No.
j6, Fourth-street, will receive the thanks of the own
er, and his own m return. - Nov. 2.
> ■—■ ' *
Sheridan's Dictionary,
ITHK SIXTH EDITION, ,
Is this Day Published,
Br jr. rouNc-, mills y son.
Corner of Second and Chefnut streets,
■ In one large 81>0. volume, price •? dollars.
! A COMPLETE DICTIONARY of the ENGLISH
r LANGUAGE both with regard to found JS
' one raain ob 3 e<a of which is to establish a plain and uer
m^ en ' J St^ dird ° f Pro " unci " ion - which is prefixed
i a Profodial Grammar. r *
BT THOMAS SHBKWAN, A. M.
October «. üßuOLD
London Particular Madeira Wine,
> '
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter-ca/ks,
Landing this day at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, and
for sale by w!
Joseph Antheny Sc Co. 1
'Nov. j. d
J3eft Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbls.
47 bbls. prime Coffee,.
Best Boston Beef,
Codfilh in hdi.
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 „. T
Northern j
Mould and dipt, tailow candles, of a superior
"quality. " eh ,
A few boxes excellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent I.itbnn Wine.
A tew sacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muslins.
FOR SALE BT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
OiSlober 31. d
set
■ No. zB, NORTH SECOND-STREET.
John Gireen & Co.
Have for Sale, on low terms, for Cafli «r the ufutl .
credit,
A General /Ifforlment of \
ironmongery, Cutlery, Brass and Ja
panned Wares,
And a quantity of Ground White Lead, and Spanish
Brown in Oil and Powder. ] ol
LIKEWISB,
fjnafl invoice of Hats, of different qualities. _
Oftobcr 26.
To be Sold, 1
At No. iaS, North Second-Street, and by federal of
the Apothecaries in this City.
TRANSFERS of the right to remove pains and inflamma _
tions from tlje human b<*dy, as secured to Dr ELISH A
PERKINS, by patent, with instruments and dire&ions ne
cessary for the ora&ice. This mode of treatment is particu
larly ufeful in relieving pains in the heat, face, teeth, bread,
fide, stomach, back, rheumatisms, recent gouts, &c. See. ri
Notwithstanding the utility of this practice, it is not pre- J
timed but there are cases in which this and every othei
fcmcdy may sometimes tail.
June i, law A
Loft Last Evening,
At Rieketts's Amphitheatre, (supposed to be taken by
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket) _
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK, X
Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes
of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and 306, da- /"
ted 12th lift August, payable 60 days after date, to the
order of Paul Siemen, together for 5150 dollars; an'ordar
of Mrs. Ann \ acpherfon, from Paul Siemen, on Lach- *
lin Mac Neal, Esq. at Port-au-Prince, for 100 dollars ;be- u
fides several letters and papers of no use but to the proprie
tor. The notes of hand and order are without endorse- J !
ment. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD !s offered to <t
any person who will discover and feenre the thief, and <(
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing The above menu- i(
oned notes and papers at No. 119, corner of Front and (<
Malberry ffreets. d o<st. IX. ff
U
To be Rented,
A Small and Convenient BREWERY, at
Morris Ville, oppo/ite Trent an. <(
ALL the Apparatus for Brewing new and irj good „
repairs A number cf Barrels and Half Barrels will «
also be rented. Possession may be had at any time. ~
{Inquire of' Mr. Garrett Cottringer in Philadelphia, «
or Mr. Robert Morris, jun. or Daniel Mun at Morris-
Ville. /,
Oftnber go, 1-96. mth&saw m
fc
Brokers Office, and p<
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third street.opposite the national Sew Bank. „
SAMUEL M FR UNCES and JOHN VAN REED, b '
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of .
FR.V UNCES & VAN REED, in the buftnefs of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell on commiflion every species of stock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c'
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch: ..ccouuts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
tnoft correct manner. Conllant attendance wilTTjc given. w
They solicit a share of the public favor ; they are deter- n
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED. "
Philad. August 17, I7<j6. m&wtf i
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Can&J Lottery, No. a, for sale—a
Check Book for examination'—and prizes paid in
the late T
Check Books kept for examination and r?grifteriflg, for /,
the City'oT Walhington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
Tht fnbferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friebds, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchaiige or Notes, Houses, Lands, .
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
*,' Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollers each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring. ,
tVm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augnfi 18, 1796. mth <
Mr. RICKETTS i
BEGS leave to inform the I.adies and Gentlemen, that 1
lie will open his RIDING SCHOOL on the lit of Nov. '
for the infttuftion of Ladies and Gentlemen in the ele- ]
gant aceomplilhmcnt of riding and managing their horses
With ease to themselves.
Mr. Ricketts has well trained Horses for the vccom
ttiodation of Ladies and Gentlemen for. exercise, to pay
monthly. Pupils to pay by thefeafon, or by the lcfibn.
Horles trained to the road or field.
October 14. d
WANTS a fituatinn as CI-F.R K, in a m6rcantilehoufe
in this city, a young man who can be vrcll recom
mended : he is well acquainted with book-keeping, and
writes a good hand. Enquire of the editor of the G'a
«tte of the United States.
Oilebcr »,?. d 6,
v
, . . ' ■. • • '',4 " • • »
FOR SALE.
PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND GIN, of the firft qualities in Pipes.
FRAUNCES and VAN REED,
Brokers and Commiifion Merchants, No. 63,50. jd St. bi
Who discount approved NOTES of hand. ft
N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted.
September 14. mw^
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
Souchong ~
Hyson Skin / %
Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS
Hyson and \
Imperial ■*
Yellaw Nankeens
China Wart, ifforted in Boxes and Cherts
Quicksilver _ . .
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in •_
ehefts ~
London Market MADEIRA \V INE
London particular Vin pipes, hogfiieads, &
New-York Market ) quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogflteads A
Sugar Candy by the Box K
Sail Canvas No. I a,B E
Lead in Iheets I:
3 Calks of Cutlery afldrted «
A few chests of Manchester Goods, afTorted.thick- K
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c. A
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
. Nails alTorted in calks
1 July 18 mw&f
\ Washington Lottery. I
The 32d and 33d days' drawing of the Waftiißgrton f
Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office No. 234, Mar- c [
ket-ftreet, where tickets may be examined.
1 N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other jj.
lotteries may be procured. # tc
O&ober 27, 1796. <i hi
" ar
To be Sold,
The Time of a smart, attive Negj-p Lad,
j Who has Eleven years to frrve.
Enquire at-No. South Front-ftrett. th
-Oflober 18.
THIS DAT PUBLISHED, pi
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
, (Price I» l-l Cents)
- The President's Address re
1 To thi People of the United States, at
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
at the expiration of the present conftitutiotal term of
presidency.
September 20. ' .. d
y Treasury of the United States.
* "\T°T'CE is hereby given to all persons who are or f e
XN may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
of the Funded Debt, or Stock, taring a present inter?] 1 of fx
per centum per annum. —
i ft, That pursuant to an Aft of Cctfigrefs palfed on the
lßth day of April, 1796, intitled an aft in addition to an
aft, intituled " An aft making further provision for the
support of public cr«dit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the faiddebt or stock will be reimiurfed and
' paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be made on the last days of March, June and Septem
j « her for the present year, and from the year one thousand
l_ " seven hundred and rtiriety-feyeiii to tie year or.c thou- £
j " sand eight hundred & eighteen inclufivc, at the rate of
" one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
_ " Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of
" December ior the present year, and from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year £
,/ " one thousand eight hundred and seventeen indufive, at JJ
" the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
. " ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma le on the last
.. " day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" died and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
" quate, according to the contrast, for the finaj redemp
'> " tion of the said stock."
'* id. All diftinftion between payments on account of
Interest and Principal being thus abolilhad by the eftabiifli
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abov« de
scribed, it has become necessary to vary accsrdingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; th.: public
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
is eftablifhec) for all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation olthis notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that
31 j r
s 7
do make, conjlitute and appoint
of my true and lawful dt-
' torney y fur me y and in my name, to receive the dividends lubieb are,
, or Jball be payable according to laiv, on the (hert describing the
stock) Jianding in my name in the books of (here deferibingi .the c
1 books of the Treasury or the Commiffioncr of Loans, P
i where the stock is credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of tkne foi- which power of
attorney is to continue) xvitb power also an attorney or attor
n'tes under bim, for that purpose to make andfubjlituie, arid to do all
laivjul acts requ'ifitefor effecting tbepremifes, hereby ratifying and h
confrming all tbat my said Attorney or bisfubflituU, Jball lawful- C
ly do, by virtue hereof. o
- In IVitnefs hereofl have hereunto set my Hand and Seal the
day of in tbe year x
Sealed and Delivered
in prefer > •
-a BE IT KNOIVN, tbat on tie J.y of
,n efcrc meperfonally came 1
within named and achno-wledgei tbe above letter of attorney to le 1
or bit atl and deed. ,
" s > In testimony -whereof I have hereunto set my Hanitni affix
od Seal the day and year last afortjaid. t
vn Siven under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen- |
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions 1
■° r from the Secretary of the Treasury. ,
MEREDITH,
Treasurer of the United States.
j 7*b ) 1 > tfi
Is, 1
Mr. FRAN CI S,
' n (Of the New Theatre)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
- demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfetf that his attention to h»3 pupils hi
lat 'herto renders any promises of conducing his future
JV . schemes on the raoft liberal and strictest terms, of pro
le. priety, totally unneceflary.
Fes N. B. Private tuition as ufuai.
. J"" e 3 raw
rtlr :
»ay Boarding and Lodging
Dn ' TWO GENTLEMEN may be accorumoda'ed with
Boarding and Lodging, in a private family and pleafaat
part of the city. Apply to the Printer. Oft. 11, tts
use ~; —-
WANTED,
in< ' As COOK, 1.1 a private family, a woman of g»od eharafter
ja - and who can be well iccomoiended.
Enquire of the Printer.
6, October gi. d? t .
Madeira Wine.
30
A few pipts of Madeira Wi'ne, landing from on
. board the schooner Lucy, Capt. Prows, at Chefnut
ftreet wharf, and for falc by the subscriber.
Robert Andrews,
0&. 14. raw No. 86, So. Wharves. T(
. V ■ - -—r w
New Hat and Hosiery Store, se.
Wholesale, and Retail, I
By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
No. 134, Market Strict, 3d door from the corner
of Fourth, South Side.
Mens' Black American andEnglih Hats, of various qual
itie» and prices.
Ditto Drabs and Green-undtrs. *
Ladies' ditto black
n And a large aflortment of fancy ditto
Coloured Beavers a
With a great variety of elegant and
j, mings l <scc.
Youth's black and drab coloured ditto.
Children's fancy ditto
All kinds of silk, filkand cotton, cotton and thread hose
Knit coloured Pantaloons
Ditto Drawers ,
Ditto Breeches Patterns
Bilk Gloves
" Knotted, coloured ditto, ootton
A quantity of mending cotton, sorted colours,
N. B. The hatsfinilhed in the newest falhoß.
Oft. 17- eodim.
Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
» TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
" city of Philadelphia. q U
The Subscription Room will be furnilhed with all the
daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com- <je
taercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed tlo
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupse, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety d ri
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrelhments, ((,,
1 will at all tinr.ea be procured at the bar. — —.
Gentlcmcn may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and aarlieft
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours mod convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is _
i regularly kspt for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at ths bar.
The Lodging Rooms mill be completely furnilhed, and y
p the utmost attention paid to cleaolinefs, and every other f
requisite. cel
S\Muit. Richardet will behappyto receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part fliallbe wanting to pre
fer ve that patronage with whiah he has been so distinguish
' lHgly fionored.
Philadelphia, April 19 ■ mwf %
This Day is Published,
' A SATIRICAL POEM, CALLED —
He would be a Poet, **
! Or, " Nature will be Nature Jlill —
An HEROIC POEM. 63
I To which is annexed*
- A Thanksgiving Epistle on Electioneer-
ing Success. foi
f Br GEOFFRY TOUCHSTONE. to
e Printed for the authar, and fold by Mr. Benjamin jn
r Davies, No. 68, Market-street, and the principal > n
t Booksellers in the City.
Oilober 26, *eo3 co
1 m.
Just I mported, foi
Tin Plates in boxes etl
Sheet and bar Lead
Shot—all sizes, paten h and common
f Copper bottoms and sheets
English shoes and boots in cases
Taunton Ale in calks of 10 doz. each
c Basket Salt
c Wool Cards
a Gold Watches.
For SaVe by >
t Simon Walker,
Oft. 7. mwfim Dock-street j- u
To be disposed of,
THE time of a healthy NEGitO WQMAN, who I £
has between fsur and five years to serve: She a j
e can be recommended for her sobriety and honefly. For p
s, particulars enquire at No. 13a, Chefnut-ftreet. R
[- Augull 3. W&ltf li:
* STOP ft THE THIEVES!!! £
II Wednesday Evening, October 19, the F
id beursotyand ioo # clock, the bed 100 mof Ricketts in D
/- O'EUer's hotel was eniered, either by means of ialfe keys, S'
orat the window, by some villain or villains, who mutl have tc
been acquainted with the fituaiion of the house (as the door
was found locked after they had committed the thefi) who
took away from amoii«ft several trunks," ONE which can-
;ained a valuable partcf Mr. Rickett's property, but of which n
he is not yet able to ale rtain the contents particularly. Af
ter bringing the said trunk away, and emptying it of up- F
wards of a thousand dollars in cash and lank notes, the vil
lains left it behind the circus, during the time that the per
formances of the evening were going forward*
It is earnestly rcqueiled, that all tavern-keepers on the stage
roads, and the ferry houses, as well as all civil officers, may
n " be watchful in securing suspicious persons, who may have a P
ns redundance of cash, which their appearance would by no
means bespeak them tD be poflelfcd of.
One Hundred Dollars Reward
■ t will be given for Iccuring tbc thief or thieves, and a fur
ther reward for fecuiing them with the property.
Oft. 21. d
~F~O~R S~A~r~E. 1
;» A PLANTATION, '■
a ' \ BOUT 12 miles from this City,fituate in Abing- 3
-j e ton Township, Montgomery-County ; contaihing *
I*l_1* 1 _ 7° a new stone house, two itories high, 2 rooms on a T
floor, fire places in each, a stone kitchen and ilone spring
house, over an exceilent spring of water, a barn, stables, ,
°" sheds, barracks, See. A large apple orchard, and a variety of ,
other fruit, about 12 acres of good meadow well watered,
and wood fufheient for fire, and fencing the place. Polfcffi- 1
1W on may be had the ift of April next. Property in this city 1
— will be taken in exchange, or MORRIS and /
Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Street. ' c
Philadelphia, September 13, 1796. ttftf
; Bt A Manufadtory FOR SALE.
i—. A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa6lory, fituatc
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new, 3
on an entirely original conftruftion, and built of the belt
er, materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
whowiihto parchafe, are requcfted to apply at No. 273;
South Second Street.
September lg. * t t f if
Madeira Wine.
30 Pipes of the very bell quality, and fit for immediate
ufc, jult imported in the schooner Lucy from Madura
and for falc by '
'John Craig,
No. 11, Dock-street.
Who has for Sale, ,
TenerifFe Wine, ia pipes, hoglheads, and qr. calks.
Window Glass.
Segars, &c. Sec.
Two trunks of the best Cotton and Silk
Hosiery.
October 4. mwftf 'J
Washington Canal Lottery,
No. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorif«<j
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thoufana
tvro hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, fro«n th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I,
Viz -1 Prize of . ao,ooo dollars, Jo,ooo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn 7
Tickets, each j si° oo 35>000
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
ro ditto 400 4)000
io ditto 100 a,OOO
55 ditto 50 2,750
J750 ditto ia 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,150
5850 Prizts, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
1
■■ V.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
£5" The Commissioners have taken the Securities re 1
quired by the aforefaid aift for the pun&ual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as thtf Tickets are fold, of which timelv
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after tht
drawing is fmifhed, shall fee confidfi-ed as relinquifted for
the benefit of rK.Xi.n.l .. 1 — -»-* >
f Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS, i
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wafliington, Feb. \t. 5
Lottery
FOR raifirtg fix thonfand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen *.er
cent from the prices, and not two blanks to a priza. viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5009
If 1000 100®
i 500 509
S aoo ioco
30 100 ■ aooo
99 jo 495°
ao® , 5000
4000 10 10,000
5 Last drawn numbers of 1060 dollars each, 5030
1334 Prizci. 44,450
4018 Blanks. »
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44.456
By order of the Directors of the Society for establish
ing Ufeful Manufa<3nres, the fuperirtendants of the pat
erfoe lottery have Managers to offei tfie
foregoing S»heme to the public, and have diredled them
to refund the money to thpfe persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
The lottery has aSually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office of William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may b« procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- GUMMING, ~)
.JACOB R. HARDENBERG, >• Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
dtf eo
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re
ceived at the. office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the firft day of March-next en
suing, for thefupply of all rations which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftri&s here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagary at
Pjefque lfle ;• at Sandufky Lake, and on San Julkf
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Harailton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfoji ; at Grcnville; at
Picque Town and I.oramir* Store: at Fort Adamv, at
Fort Wayne ; at Fort Defiance ; at any place b«low Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort MafTac ; at any place from Fort Maflac
to the foutk boundary of the United States on the river
Miffifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies shall be required for any posts or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies shall be fur
nifhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contra&or. i
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
c One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
j One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces 01
a pork or bacon.
3 Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiskey.
One quart and half a pint of fak."")
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( hundre d rations
Two pounds of Soap, ( 1
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities, as tat ■.
there shall at all times during the said term, be fuflicient
for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De- *
troit, Niagara,'and Ofwego, for the term of fix month* in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term 0 j
at least three months in advance, in good and wholesome
provisions, if the fame shall be required. It is to be un
£ derflood, that the Contra&or is to beat the exfence an B
a risk of iffuirg the supplies to the troops at each post, an
6 that all losses sustained by the depredations of aa enemy. oT
J by means of the troops of the United States, lb?)) be pai j
| for at the price of the articles captured or deftroyeo, on ■
* the dcpofitions of two or more persons of creditabk c
y raScrs, and the certificate of a commiffioncd ofliccr, a
s certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the aniou ■
*of ths ai tides for which compensation shall be claitnc
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury. 9
I PRINTED BY JOHN FENN 0, |
'! —No. 119—
I' cHE S N T-STRH ET.
[price Right Dollars per Annum.}
. A