[ 1 JCr . rty
of the 6 s Philadelphia Dally Advertiser,
tivwz* 1205.] WEDNESDAY* EVENING, JULT 2c, 1 79 6. fFoxy/^X.
For Sale or Charter, I r
1 T H E SNOW
BOSTON,
B! ; RTHEN afiout 2000 Bbls. of flour—fee may be sent
tli fcJ It J finall expellee, her Tails and rigging being in 0
vviy good order—apply to , j
fames Campbell, or
George Latimer.
*pril,»o. § -
J? or J>ale,
(wjttrffcl (On a liberal credit)
The fall failing copper-bottomed BRIG
Amiable Matilda,
!N coropleat order for sea, with a freight on board. Ap
piy t0 SAMUEL SMITH, Broker.
July 7. §
know Hebe.
r—s_ FOR SALE,
The Snow H E li B,
A firthfnt PhiladdphiaTiuilt vessel, car
- ries 1,3000 bushels of grain or 2600 barrels flour, is rea
dy to take in a cargo. She is about four years old.
' iy t0 PETER BLIGHT.
Who hasfcrfele, _
Si Coffee, Cocoa, and Pimento.
Also,
Jf Pared of CHOICE PORT WINE. 1
T,, r CO
For Sale,
The Schooncr . 4
■ ■ LARK,
J ONE hundred and twenty tons burthen. A
, V--"' vessel ; well found, txU-«W
■ft, ana well built. For terms app!£ to, *e
board, or to JOSEPH ANTHONY and CO.
IF the above vessel is not fold by Saturday, fee will
tike freight on very low terms for Boston.
PNI" - *—
CABLES,
Ftom 16 to 9 i inches, for sale by
Jeremiah Wprdei \
No 11 north Third-llrert.
July 11 i- i
Lottery 'i
FOR raffing fix thonfand fix hundred and sixty-seven v
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per e
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz. v
I Prize of 5000 dollars i« dollars 5000 ti
t 1000 1000
, 500 s<=°
_ goo toco ]
40 ' JOO scoo.
00 JO 49J°
,bo 1J i co °
3000 10 20,000
5 Last-drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, jooo
1332 Prizes. 44>4J0
4018. Blanks. . *v
(5350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, ' • 44,4,50- —
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftiblilh- r
Jng Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperintendants of the Pat
er?on Lottery hive requeued the Managers to offer the
foregoing Ssheme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to th.ifc persons who have purchased
in the former lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
The lottery has a&ually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ol William Blackburn, Na. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of Jur.e, 1796.
J. N GUMMING,
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, >■ Manager:.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
June 18 eo
" PROPOSALS.
By J. TURNER & A. BROWN, jun.
For Pablifhing by Subscription,
LETTERS TO TOUNG WOMEN
married a »d single,
By Mrs. GRIFFITH.
" Beauty in vai 1 her sparkling eyes may roll :
«' Charms firike the fight—but Merit wins the so il."
CONTENTS—Of religious duties-—Fortitude—Char
ity—Affeilioii due to an huiband—Refignation, aiidtruft (
in Go;!— The importance of thole accomplishments mot
agreeable to the hulband ; and on ret remcnt, diffipatiou, 1
&e.—Economy—Do.meftic amusements, tnufic, &c.—
Public diversions, cards, and * efs—Complacescy ; Pa
tience—Secrets—Servants, The importance of ear
Jy cultivating the minds of children,and of giving them j
the 1 earliest ideas ot truth and benevolence. Their early!
inllruelior. in the beauties ofnattire,atrd in humility ,com
paffi9;) imluftry, See. The propriety of instilling early
ideJs of religion in the {ninds of children. On their rea
ding, and on the use o>;. money to them —The use of wri
ting early recomnieDiled for children ; thoughts 011 vari
-lus duties th;<y should acquire, as contentment, &c—
Thouji L 3 on their negative education, and their turn for 1
imint'*. a On the acquirements of girls in the knowledge
«» l-.iufic, needle-work, draw log, dancing, &c. Thoughts
bn the education of the heart, in j&eferencc to the fcewy
accompljlhmcnts.
To which will be annexed,
The Vis ion of Fan ale Excellence.
CONDITIONS.
This work to be comprised in two handsome duo
decimo volumss of 250 pages each, Deatly bound and
lettered.
Tfie price to fubferibers will be One Dollar per vol.
to be paid on delivery.
As loon a3 500 lubferibers are obtained, the work
will be put to press.
Subfcribcrs' names to be affixed.
ON the utility of this work the ptiblifhers deem it
Hineceffarv to descant. —In the refinement of the fe
male mind Mrs. Griffith's Letters have been eminently
i 1,-cefsful; and the general estimation in which they
!:ave been held by the lovers of intellectual improve
ment (the best criterion of their merit) will, they hope,
"Mifure to their proposals a welcome reception from
the "fair daughters of America."
" Delightful talk 1 t-o rer.r thc tender thought,
To teach the yoi'ng idea ic».' to (hoot,
To pour the frefh in(iru<Stiou o'er the mind,
1 To breathe th'enliveninjf spirit, and to fix
Tive generous purpose in the giow:ng breast.*'
Sublcriptions received by the publilhers, at the office
the Philadelphia Minerva, Ne. 224 Market-Hrecet.
wf&m
Take Notice,
r I 'HAT the Subfcrib-r intends to matt -*
1- tion for the renewal of a Certificate, No. 1609, I
for 40co dollars, dated the 14th December, i79s,beariup
intcreft at 5 per ceftt. from ift January, 1796, iu riic
name of David Dunderdals & Co. of Leeds, in Yark- C 1
1 fliire, merchants. 'I'he fame is supposed to have been 101 l ,
1 on its way to New York, under cover to Bicecker & 1
March, of that placc, on the 6th of January last*
Thomas M'Euen.
Philadelphia, t2djune, 1796. S6w
A small Invoice
PER the Ali i Harriet, capt.Thomas W. Norman, front tl
Hamburgh, eonfifting of _ a
Ravens Puck,
Damask and 1 a P
Diaper j
Holland Linen fl
" Cambrics, &c. r ,
ADSO, a(
* NEAT ASSORTMENT
Gold and silver Watches.
Which will be difpefc4 of together or by the package. *'
Apply to e .
Is ate Harvey, jun. h
No. 5 South WuUtr Street. b
June if §3W fe
. ii." ir
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo »f the fliip Gunges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal, §
CONSISTING OF
A Large and general afforttnent of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMOtjO WHICH AHE
A variety fine ivhrked. and plain Mujlins, 1
- Doreis, (3*o. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
la boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER.
[1 T-ct Sale by
Willings & Francis,
No. it Penn Streets
June 8
Twenty Dollars Rewr»^-
WAS STOLEN, last evening, from tl- jiafture of the
Tubfcriber, a black Rockinv l -' in GELDING, 15
hands high, has a liar,---«n"d some white under his
throat, (the part beinj formerly chafed) ;has a leather on
hit neck, the mane on the near fide, his foot-locks fretted
n with a clog, and is a horse of much bone and size. Wlio
r ever fecurcs him with the thief, lhall have the above re
ward, or for the Hoxfe alone a very generous comptnfa
o tion. JOHN LAWRENCE.
0 J«iy 1 eo4w
0 ~ 1
° New Hat and Hosiery-store, «
0 WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,
By WILLIAM M'DOUjG. at i
0 No. 134. Market flreet %
Third door tiom the corncr of Fourth, to
z Men's Black American and Engiilh HATS, 6- ,- s
lilies and prices
■i. Diuo Dr;ibs and Crcen uudexs ■.
Ladies' dmo, bULK, and alirge affouineiu c
ty. Coloured Beavers, With a great variety c
Trimmings
Youth.s Black, and Drab-eolouted do.
e Children's faacy do.
n , Allkiadsof Siik. Silk&Cotton, Cotton & "h*eadKOSE ' v
d Kr.it, coloured Pantaloons
:s D<r. Drawers
Do* Breeches Pattern!
il Silk Gloves
:s Knotted, coloured do. Cotton
4 A quantity of Mending Cotton, sorted colouri.
> The finifiied in the newest falhioa.
Juae 87. coim J
For sale by the fublcribers, i
IN ftiiTi-STREET,
130 quarter Che (Is frefn Hyson Tea ; 3
100 ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea; c
300 Boxes China, containing small tea setts «f 44 r
pieces;
400 pieces Baudanoes.
Willing Frana L
Ja "" lr V 30 • I j
Yazoo Lands. H3I
May be had at the Editor's OJjicc 119, Cfjefnut-Jlrsd,
r- A few Copies of " a Report of thfe Attorney ! '
Genergl to Congress j" containing a ColleAion ol j "
H) Charters, Treaties aud other Documents, t
_ relative to and explanatory of the Title to the Land
a- situate in the South Weltero parts of the United
r 1 States, and claimed by certain Companies under a •
l" j law of the State of Georgia, passed January 7th, ,
n- 1 795 1 *
)y -
a- For Sale,
A Thrte story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
rI " /l street, between Front and Second ftrcets, in which
Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
or ! now do; carried on business.
6 e Poffcfiion will be given in one month, or sooner.
118 For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
V V HECTOR. CALBRAITH.
April zi. £
TO~BE~ LET.
A LARGE Commodious dwelling House, NOJ.H4,
Spruce street, with a convenient liable and Coach
ic] Hsufe, —Also for sale a Chariot but little the werfe for
use- June a. eott
bL VVm. HOLDERN ESSE,
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals froai Europe and
the £aft Indies, a well fcl cd assortment of Silk
lit Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberd&ftiery Goods ; which
fe- he will fellj Wholefaie and Retail, on theloweft term#;
tly AMONGST WHICH ARE,
ey Some fine India muffins embroidered with gold and friver
,-e- Superfine Book, Jaconet, aad Mulmul ditto
>e, do do do Handkerchiefs
)in Some extra black and colorad Persian;-
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Lonj'and short Nankeens
English Mantuas of the firft quality
Damask table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk HoCery, an elegant assortment
Tnead and cotton do
• ce Umbrellas—green si lk, oil'd do. a»d do cloth
, £t French cambrics, very fine
t Iridl Linens, do, &c. June 14 §
Samuel Richardet, 1
"O ESPECTFCJLLY iiiforms the Gentlemen ,
Merchants, that he iias this day opened the CITY I*
TAVERN und MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the j
ci: ' of Philadelphia. 1
'J'he Subscription Room will be furnifhed with aU the
dally papers publiihed in Philadelphia, N:w-York, Bos- |
ton, Baltimore, together with thofi; of the principal ;om- I *
m.rcial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed 1
and none permitted to be cakey away on any account.
Tea* Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, lee Creams, and a variety
oJf ¥rc*eh Liquors; together with the usual rcfrefhmaits,
will M times be procured atihetar.
Gentlemen may depend on bwir.g aicommo<Uicd with
the choiccft of Wires, Spirituous Liquors, and t£e most
approved Malt Liquors iromLondon and orher bre>vcries. '
The Lai der will befupplied with the prime and earliest
pFodudlions of tho Season. t
Large and small Farties, cf Cngle Gentlemen, may be ;
accommodated with- Breakfaft-., Dinners, or Suppers, at t
hour 6 most convenient to thcmielves^—a cold Collation is
regularly jtept for conveniuncy, th« Biliof Firet? be had
at th& bar.
The l.odginj Rooms will be completely furniflied, a«d
the utmoll attention paid to clcanlinefs, and every cthef
fequitite.
S \MtTEL Richardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, aiid tht Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on,his part fti'all be wanting to pre
fer ve that patronage with which he has Been lo diftinguifh
ingly tanored. ' . .
Philidelphia, April 19. .... §
City cf WafhingtQii.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 40,000 dollars, & }
dwclling-houfe, ) cajh ,jo : ooo, are j '
1 ditto 15,000 & calk 25,000 40,000
' 1 ditto 15,000 & oaftk 15,000 ap.ooo
I ditto 10,000 & calh io,ooo 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cafe 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,,000 &. cash 5,000 10,000
1 calh prise of 10,000
• 1 do. 5,00© each,are,' » 10,000
10 dc i,»oo - - 10,000
ao dg, 500 - - 10,00s
—'too • ' .10,000
»x> do. , 0 s. . IO,0(JO
1,,000
i.ooe do. 20 . i 0)C00
15,000 do. 10 . 750,000
16,739 Pr«es. : .
34,261 Rlanka. X
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 4q,©000
N. li. To favour those who may take a quantity ol
Tickets, the prtte of 40,000 dollars wiH be the t X»T
tickct, nnd the 30,000 the last but one*:
And approved notes, fccuriog payment in cither monsy
or prize*, in ten days atter drawing, will-be roceiwed for
. number not leli than 30 ticket?.
i'his Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
-2 buiiJingF t6 be ereSedin the City of Walhington—
o beautiiul .dcfigns are already f«le>sled for the entire
.itiou two of tlicpublic fquarcs; from these prawings
two c fo^rcorne r buiUingb,
■> -6011 a* poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
m, When ("■;r.»j.l -<t~, i_q the adventurers, in
mamierdefcribed in the scheme for the iJoteTljOttery.
4 iett deda&ion of siva per cent. Will be made to defray
. necessary expenfes.of prin'ing, &c. and the surplus
' .. Ibe made a part of the fund intended for the National
. verfity, to he ereded withih the city of Walhington.
"he Drawing wilt commence as soon as the tickets arc
fold off.—The lv.oaey prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finlfesd ; and any pr ies for which foftunate
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be confidertdas given towards
the lun.4 for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and' to take up the bonds given as security,
The real fecuyities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Dire&ors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointmeht of
the late Commiffionets aflilted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
fccond time on, behalf of the public 5 a fufficient num
oer of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National Univbrfity and the other federal ab
jefts may continue to favor the design.
Py accounts received fr#m the different parts of the
>ntinent as well as from Europe> where the tickets
I k *ve been sent for sale, the public are assured that the
j Rawing will speedily commence, and that the carc and
i caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafc disposal ot
th« tickets, has rendered the ihur fufpfc.alion indifpcnlable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tieketsmay be had at the Bank of Columbia \ of
Jaihes Weil & Co. Baltimore ; of Feter Gilraan, Boston ; j
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wills, i
Cooper's Ferry.
Loft,
■ *
/AN i hurfday 30th Jcne, on the road from Philadelphia
U- to the Falls of Schuylkill, and about the fifth mile,
a brown and white mottled POINTER DOG, anfwersto
the name of Don, had on round his neck a collar engrav
ed Waller Phillips, Philadelphia. Whoever will bring
him to Mr. Kid, No. 192 Market-flreet, will rcccive a re
ward of ten dollars.
N. B. The owner fufpe&sthat the Dog is tied up, else
he would have returned. The above reward will be giv
en to any peifon giving that information if true.
dhien d'Arret perdu.
JEUDI le 30th Juin on a perdu fur la route de Philadcl
phie aux Chutes de la Schuylkill, a cinq milles dc la
Ville, un Chien d'Arret marque de taches blanches et
brunt's. 11 reponde au nom de DON et parte un collier fur
Irqucl font grave les mots Waller Phillips, Philadelphia.
I Quiconque mcnera ce chicn chez Monfieut Kid, rue du
Marche, aura di* gourdes de recompense.
Uyalieu dc foupconncr que le chien eft tenu attache
1 quelque part; autrement il feroit deja revenue de luimcme.
Ondonnera la dite recompense a celni qui peut indiquer le
lieu ou ce chien fe trouve maintenant.
July 16 *3'
JUST ARRIVED,
175 Hogfheails of Choice
ST. CROIX SUGARS.
Also, 1
A quantity of Rum.
For Sale by
James Yard.
July »5
11
By an Artist rcfidtrut at Mc. Qellci s's Hotel,
'miniature LIKENESSES
!• A RE taken ami executed in tUat*clega«f and dcittaw:
| A (lilc, which i» so e;cc:Tury to render a Minutute I'te- >
j ture an iitterciiiug jewel.
He will wari?Bt a strong and indifnatable fe
I b lancet and he takes tfce liberty to lay Ware the jiuh'ic
) of this place his most earnest iuteatiac ta dci'crvc their uj T
tronage liy h** bcil endeavors to ploofe.
N. B. Specimens are to he fern.
May 12. 5
Washington Canal Lottery.
N° . I.
the State of Maryland h-<« a-.iti.orifed
♦ » tho underwritten, to rsife twenty-lix thsufand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the pufpotcof cutti».»
a Canal through th. City of VTamiii»tan, from th<i i'o
tomac to theEailern Branch Haruour.
The following it, the SCHEME of No. t.
Viz I Prize of »0,000 dollar*, iug 0
I otto 10,000 *• 10,000
7 last drawn")
Tickets, each J '30 3->> coa
6 ditto I,coo 6,c00
10 ditto 400 4,'cco
40 ditto * 100 J)Coi
SS ditto jo 2;7i0
5750 ditto 12 .69,008
To be raised for the Ci»i!, x.1,250
5850 Prires, I7JPOO
11050 Blanks, not two to a prize.
1 ->joo Tickets, at Ten Dollars, . 175,000
£f The CommiiEoners have taken the Securities r«.
quired by the afcrefaid aft for the punctual payment «f
the prizes.
' The drawing of this Lottery will commcnce, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
drawing is feiShed, fta'ri be eonfidcred as rclinquifhed for
tile benefit of tli<? Canal, and appropriated accordingly
iSi S uUj NOTLEY YOUNG, ''
DANIEL CARROLL, tfIS
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCAXSON,
THOMAS LA W,
JAMES BARRY.
City of WaUringtoii, Feb. 11. j
For Safe,
a large elegant aud veli FiNisiiEb
Three-story Brick House,
(Thtf late refr.lence of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOI' of GROUND thereunto belonging,an
thewta fide of Third-street.near Umon-itrect
,1 v >ntaining in front 32 feet, and in drpth too feet, to aa
u ally leading into Union-ftrcct. The houfj is 32 feet front
and :0 f e et deep; the federal rooms contained in it arc
y KtrSimodiews, andcompletoly finifhed; the two £rft
r Tories aie each 13 feet high; there are 20 mahogany
doors in fcoufe ; a geometrical staircase, with mahoga
- rai J s good fky-lighti The kitchen i* in the cell
. ar, which is h* c j ous an( j convenient, and finiflieJ with an
c oven, pantries, a servants' hall and large
s v. int-ccllar adjoiiiito the kitchen, in from of which is an
>, * rea ln w c Llerc i< a pump. The yard is vaulted.
v Communicating with building is a neat three-It,**
n brick ho*le, on the north fide 01 XJiiToiv»J|rcct, cantain
partfwhich
I part divide,; ii.tt, well.finifl.ed
| may at a small expeitfe be converted into a convenient
dwelling : The ftreetdoor is veryjiandfome, acd the front
e and back have Venetian window-inutters. Adjciningthe
, s last hotife, upon the lot belonging to the fir ft, are creeled
c bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good coach
g house and (tables finifhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
[ 5 the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
e in depth 011 the w«Q fide of said alky J2 feet. There arc
good cellars unde. the whole of the buildings, and a wine
room over part of the liable, with a hay-loft over the ro
s mainder.. For further particulars enquire of
fc EDWARO BONS-LL & Co.
a At their Office }>'». 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Rear
co streets.
6th month 24th, 1 ;g6.
Now Publt/bing by the Printrr,
1. No. 149, Chefnul-Street, and No. 3, L*titia Court,
,e delivering to Subfcribcrs, and to be hid at the different
1- Book-Stores in tails City,
The Firfi Number of
j c 5 Berriman & Co*&
•e CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
f { The HOLY BIBLE.
e. Containing the Old and Naw
Tcflaments and the Apoc'typha, with marginal notes and rr»
of erences. An Index jor an account of the moil remarkable
~ paflagesin the old and new Tertament, pointing to the places
j' whereiu they happened, and to the plices of fcriptuie where.
' in they are recorded.—A Table of Time.—Tables of scrip- t
ture measures, weights and coins: with an appendix, contain
~ ingthe method of calculating its MF.ASO*»sof subfacic
hitkcito wanting™ Trcalifci on this A Table of OJUep
and Conditions of men.
ia CONDITIONS
e, i» The size of this-Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO,
to printed «n a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par
v- ticularly for k, It will be published in Numbers, notto ei
ceed 30, one of which will be delivered weekly to fubferib
e. cm, at aquarter of a dollar. Thofo fubferibers who prefer
receiving ihe work comp'.cte, will be atttnded to by Ggnifying
C e the fame on any of the fubfeription papers in rhe Bookltoie*
in this city.
z. There willbe an advance in th« price, on fubferibingf
_ after the fitft of next.
3. In the eourfeof the Work will be given an elegant
Fronlifpiece—FicTn an Engraving of the celebrated artiff,"
Gkicnion.
[ a ' Berriman t Co. gratefallyacknowledge the very liberal
et encouragement they have met with; and havereafonto believe
• that the execution of their edition will answer every expec»
tation, and speak its turn fraije.
I l ' May »6 jafoww.
FOR SALE*
W \ FOUNT of BREVIER, half worn ; about four hac
-1 - jl\. dred weigkt. Enquire at the Office of the Gazette
' e of the United States, No. 119 Chefnut-ftreet. §
Just Arrived,
— In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, matter from lii,-
verpool,
5000 Buflieli SALT ;
100 Crates QUEENS WARE; and
An Assortment of SHIP CHANDLERY;
r O R SALE
lOn board, at Pine-flrttt wharf. Apply to
yames Campbell, or
George Latimer*
1 Ajril ij. S» -fl
• Foreign Intelligence.
E A S T 1 N D 1 E. S. >
The new Nabob of Arcot hat fhewH a difpofiti- c '
on to conttft the authority of Ac Englith Q
took a speedy and decided course, and r
give him to understand -that he expe£ted him to
maintain ihe relations that had so happily subsisted
between his Father and the Company, with regula
rity ; and a* a test of this, demanded that he ftiould
order his Troops to keep within the limits which c
they had formerly occupied ; and there wa4 no
do jbt'but- this would be complied with implicitly.
The Dutch Ordnance found in the garrison of f
Cochin is -very considerable ; it confilts of 200
.pieces of cannon, Ijoof which were mounted ;
they-arc for the most part brass. It is added, that
tire re are about 4000 (land of arms, and proporti
--osate aftim-unitioa with fix months provisions, un
touched.
At a place on the Island of Ceylon, called Ta- j
.pia, and which had fuitendered to the Forces com
manded by Colonel Stewart, was found 140 pieces j
of ordnance, and 70,000 lbs. of powdei.
CAPE OF GOOD HOPE, March 12.
' Every thing remains tranquil, and nearly in the
fame state as when I last. wrote. We have had ru
mours here of a French fleet having left the Medi
terranean to pay us a visit ; 'f they come, they will
meet a warm reception ; the garrison ie in excellent
health, ar.d capable of. refitting greater fojee than
it is probable France will, or Holland can, fend
ajpaiuft us.
A most extraordinary circuwilance occured here
a few days ago. The Gotteaburgh, homeward
.bound Indiaman, of Gottenburgh, richly laden, by
forae unaccountable accident was wrecked in cur
harbour. The night was remarkably light and fe-
Tene ; the crew were saved, but it is believed the
greater part of the cargo will be 1011.
Tippoo regards with jealousy our increasing do
minion in this hemisphere, but he is too weak to of
fer impediments. The iutercourfc between him
and Lord Hobart has the appearance of cordiality
aad Frieqdfhip.
January 20.
The King of Candy has entered into a Treaty
of Axnity and Commerce with the East India
Company, and,dispatched Ambaffadorsto Madras
to ratify it.
MUN A R, January 5.
On the redu&ion of Jaffratatnatn, a Gnjiall de
taebment was sent against this« Fort whic:; is situ
ated in the Eallern pact of che Island, and com
'«iands theGulph of the fame name. The Dutch,
•on our approach, -surrendered. Colonel Stewart '"«*
now -preparing the fieg-e of Colombo, where 'he
enemy has assembled a considerable force are
determined' on resistance. Our army ojmpvifes
8000 effective men. The appearance c/ Admiral
Elphir.ftone's fl<*et will, I presume, ind' ce a change
of fontiment. -Our troops are «ma* a hly healthy.
LONDON, AprPi6-
Twenty ton? of ox-bones wot last week imported
into Liverpool, from JJublin ; for the purpose of dif
-tillation.
" r r,rr-^r"" rrrTfr T r9m Omagb (Ireland) April 8.
« On Saturday last Thos. Riehardfon, Esq. and
Mr. Ben. put on their trial for the alledg
ed crime of being Untted Irishman- ! ! They flood,
charged upon the oath of Robert Robinson, with acon
fpiracy to join the Catholics 0! Ireland,for the purpose
of overturning the government and constitution of th e
•country.
" Robinson produced swore that he had been
' in for the aboVe purpose, aid that he had
attended meetings bf Uhitcd Irifntnen -where
Meflrs. Riehardfon and Brown were present—he con
fefled however, that he.had since made an affidavit that
he had*b«n terrified by the Orange men, and suborned
hy Mr. Armftrung of D'jngannon, vho had promised
a reward of -150 guineas to lodge examinations a
gainst the United Jrifhmen and that every word he had
sworn in said examinations .was ntterly falfe and un
true. On being asked which of the affidavits he would
nowftandto, he said he would ftantl Hy the first-
After a variety of contradictory testimony, the honour
able Jtidge (Jultice Kelly) ordered him dowji, and
the pnloners not thinking it necessary to produce any
\fi£nefifs to refute so ridiculous a charge, f» ill fup
portad, Justice Kelly, cnarged the Jury/-who in three
minutes., returned a vcrdiil of Not Guilty. Two
other persons who had been committed upon the fame
charge, were instantly liberated without trial.
" This being the firft attempt made in Ireland, to
punifli men for promoting harmony among the differ
ent religious perfusions, and flopping tlie progress of
that ianaticifm which has disgraced the county or Ar
magh, and its impotence appearing in so conlpicnous a
manner, caused the raoft universal joy in every counte
nance. Should we ever live to fee the day when the
promoters'of brotherly love and affection among Jrifli
inen were ounifhed at criminals ; then indeed it would
"be full time to lay that this is " the land qf tonnenterj—
the place of the damned'
Sunday morning, about three o'clock, a most
cruel and Inhuman murder was perpetrated on the
body of Mrs. Ann Sawyer, wife of Mr. Wm.
Sawyer, the King's Barge Master, at his house,
Bishop's Walk, Lambeth. The villains had fitft
broke open the house, and packed up all the valu
ables they could find, but Mis. 5. hearing a noile
in the house, had got up to fee what was the mat
ter, when they knocked her dawn, flatbed her in
{itveral places, and put one of her eyes out ; this
noise awoke the servant, and she 'got up and called
the watch, when they all made off in a bpat with
afft their booty.
On Wednesday evening, as a man was palling by
a recruiting ferjeant, beating upfot recruits near the
ObiJifk, St. George's Fields, he remarked, " He
'.vas a ftrnngc figure to wear a fworif." This obfer-
so incensed the ferjeant, that he immediately
ran his sword into the unfortunate man's body. He
hied much,«nd was carried away for surgical affif
tjnee." The ferjeant was taken into' custody.
tin Saturday last, the Lord Ctiancellor finiflied
the motion, refpefling the Lead mine, in which the
Ear.: of Pomfret and Sir Charles Turner are con
cc-m-d. • His LorJfliip rcfufed to niter the verdict
of 1704, which fixed th.elimits j but ordered a new
(Tue tohe tried at common law at th" next \oil k
Assizes, refpeding the general light to Vhe proper- c
•v of the mine. This cattle has been ninety-three n
yei's in Ktigation J
Saturday's Gazette was in the ufuai flile of tno t
dein gloiy ! With five columnd us army promoti
ons, and two banking houfc3 among the c
rupts to—applaud the deed 1
The contraflors for the barrack dung ought to c
be carefully watched. A]l contraftoi s are liable io f
become rogues, and thefc new ones may double
their profits by bribing the furgeops to put 'he ;
corps under a course of physic. 1
State Papers.—Tlie term given to articles of i
this nature by the Indians, is peihaps tfcs best ex
planation that can be given of their true mean- <
ing—they aallthem Palsrers.
1 Sir Wm. Dawes, Archbilhpp of Yoik, was ve
ry fond of a pun. His clergy dining with him, I
the firft time after he had loft his lady, he told i
them, he feared they did not find-things in so good ]
order as they used to be in the time of poor Mary ; I
and, looking extremely forrowful, added with a deep |
sigh, " She was indeed, Mare pscificum !" A cu
rate, who pretty well knew what she had been, cal
led out, " Aye my Lord, but <he was Mare mortu
um firft.''Sir William gave him a living of 2001.
per annum, within two months.
BARRACKS.
IT appears, that the principal use of thefc edi
fices, is to keep the soldiers from being tainted with
(editions doctrines. Abltraftedly considered, it is
a good thing to .keep th« soldiers from being taint
ed with feditiou» doilrines j but in order to carry
this principle as far as it will go (and a principle
is good for nothing if it be not applicable miverf
rri/y.f it would brirectfTary tlyit not"only twenty
thousand troops (tlve®number stated IVynd
ham) but the whtile troops of the kingd«.m ftould
be kept under the fame wbolcfome rej'imet j con
fined in barracks, and their principles eiamined
d|iily, as well asthcir accoutrements..
Bat-this is not the cafe. It appears that some
soldiers have not only beeji allowed to think, but
to express their thoßghts in a very public manner.
( By the " Hillory of Mr. Pitt't and Lord Gren
vilU't Bills," just published, we find that »o less
than ninety military hodies, of hor'fe and foot, ad
drefTed his majesty in Javour of those afis. Now
this is surely granting a libertyof thinking to iol
diers, which wc should call unprecedented,: if we
did not retolleft that Oliver Cronrr.v. ' tin t.qie.
, -afd what was the confemi^ ? . Ihe c ? nle "
5 quence *as, that the poor being permitted
to think Sr, one'fide, a f-'^ ards , took e t0
, think on'tie other' hat 033 happened may hap.
pen again, fame cawfes generally proddce
the fame . I
I„ artier, therefore, to give the barrack system
Jtr full those in Westminster pught to be
under the tlrifteft confinement, for their charge is
of the higlieft importance, and no changes of re
* giments ought tQ be permitted, before the new ae
" ceflions have undergone 'quarantine, been duly exa
j mined, and purged of ail fedilious do£trines. In
„ deed, are ptrfuaded, that it would afford a
complete fatisfaftion, as well as fe uiity to the
people, if the soldiers were to be so ftriiSly confin
ed, as never to be seen at all, for the people yet
have an old fafhioned opinion, that the civil power
may at all times be fufficient to quell diflurbances,
—. jif however cleansed,
purified, and claiified from seditious principles.
CAMBRIDGE (Eng.) April 5.
Lady Web fie' has a butler of the extraordina
ry age of on« hundred and sixteen. His name is
y Incall.
- c Mr. Ir.'c'Jjam's Corr fpondenee.
c t'.K which bears the name of- his Majes
ty, but wliK . is dated from Mr. Pitt's house in
n Downing street, and by the other state papers, our
cl readers will perceive that the flattering hopes of
' peace are for the present entirely done away. The
t war is, at ieafi on our part, to be pt*ofeeuted wtth
d renewed v'-'or.
d On the firft perusal of the state papers, it must
1- -surely excite surprise (if any thing could) to find
d that oer miniftars have a&ed in the very fame man
'j ner in which the French Rulers did at the com
menccmerit of the contest. They have iappealed to
Fiance, and not to the Executive govertfmeist.
3 No acknowledgement whatever is made of the
y French Republic,. Uuder these circumftanees we
>- do not wonder that the Directory have treated
:e note of our minifteis as a piece of Jesuitism, caleu
-0 lated only.to deceive the worlij.
,e Deterring farther observations till ministers have
„ explained themselves to parliament, we have deeply
r . to lament, that Britain is doomed towafte the re
if maißder of her blood, and treasure, for the fake of
r * German princes, and German territories, for these
a it appears are the only bars to negociation.
By the excellent speech of Mr. Francis, in the
debate of Monday last, we learn the adraii&le fyf
j tcm, by Mhich the unhappy negroes in the Weft
_ Indies aie governed. The attempt to meliorate
their f.tuation has totally failed. The house (not
!l with (landing the compliment paid by Mr. Fox) a ft
« ed in charadcr, and rejected the motion without a
1. divifioD.
On the above qccafion, we cannot biii admire
ft Mr. Pitt's prudence,in being totally silent as to the
1- -charge of insincerity, brought home to him in'fuch
e plain language by Mr. Francis. When the minis
:- ter, however, expressed his conviaion, that the le
n giflature would ftiorily abolish the trade, did he im
is agine there was a firgle person either in the'houfe
d or on; of it, simpleton enouah to credit him !
1- Mr. Wilberforce, it ought to be noted was ab
sent, during the above debate. [Cam. int.
J April 5.
Ie A beautiful hunter had his two fore legs and his
la neck broken, last week, near Dublin, by bein?
r- forced upon a leap of a stone wall, for a wager of
iy half a pint of tsjhifley between two grooms. The
\e cruelties of man to the auimals him, as
f- the borfe does, and prcteft and love him, as 'the
<% does, are among the most horrid parts of his
d hillory and character.
Ie The hair-powder tax fell <hort bv Jo.eooL of
si- the sum ex>c£led. Hundieds have given over the
£1 use of powder since last year, and what can be ex
w pc£ted now I—The majwity of those who have ta
ken licences, -rtmahkn fe11,.-, *r poW
on the wrong W* of//,, to hule the bonoraj.'
maris of lime! Man v. of th« gectlemen JikewiU"
! .*ho fcave taken out licence*, |J r P c, '« )
to hide the AeftOtpj' the.bead i
Contrast. —How-jntich is maa the creature o,
circtlntftancV Sn<l fitmjibn ! —In England in or ei
to fapprefsr and, if ■ potfMe, ft.ffocate ail rcpjjHi
can principles, no political queftioa can be aguat
ed in any ebb or foci's!y gf mors than 49 persons.
—And In France, in orJ.r to maintain repubheSi'
principles, and (hut out, monarchical ones/no" po
litical clvb', of more (hap fa people, can afembie
together. . .
Extraordinary memory. — A child of . nine year,
of age, Hying i' l Dame ilrett,'Dirbli", who u
nearly deltit'ute of light, by bearing the Pfa'.ms of
David frequently repeated, is already so much m.i>
fter of fixtyfjx of them, that on any one line'be
'ing repeated he can tell the psalm ; the verse, and
procecd through the whole wit fount committiiijSflhe
flighted mistake. His memory is so quick that be
gets off twelve or thirteen v. rfes in an hour, and
"remains afterwards in fail pofTeffton «f them.
ALEXANDRIA, July 14.
J T e had a very severe gull of trind on Tuesday af
ttinoun, accompanied with rain. During the blow
afawtookthe weft end of jhe Prcfbyterian Meet
ing Howfe, fo-ced in the gable eiid, and tore off
full two the roof, part of which r ellon a
small frame dwelling, and did it material isjurv ;
the remainder of the rooAhat was blown oft, with
several pieces of heavy timber, were driven agaijitt
the houses on the oppofue fide of the Street. The
gallery at that.end of the house, was emirely thrown
down, wliiiAl in its fall ciufhed the pews below it.
Tbcrt.was 110 damage done in any other part of the
town, exeeptthe blowing in of a few fathes and
lights of houses which lay in the diie&nw of this
vein.
The Rev. Dr. Mnir very providentially cfcaped,
being in the house at the time ; and it is laid, had
but a few moments before the aocide: t happened,
removed over.!o theeafl end ofit<
From an Englif: paper.
THE EXPENCE 9T ECONOMY.
DO you know, Mr. Editor, that I am in the
: Jjigh road to be ruined by economy. Never did a
pay so dear in otder to save moivey, and
it is t* e th e C fy that you and others haiie
i set up Ebcnft-ts^j-cjt lam fairly driven out
> of my ow.i am the laughing stock of
■ all my neighbours. -pi
: '/i-h itiull know that I hav4 the good for:une to
enjoy the bed wife in the world ; she is a patten,
1 to all her acquaintance ; she looks into every thing
: herfelf, is quite notable, a great manager, an cx
s cellent market woman, and hnows the cheapest {hop
■ in town. 1 his is not only a great eomfort as well
• as saving to ourselves, but a great convenience to
- our friends; for when any of them want to buy a
- gown, ura ponnd of raifin6, they are sure not only
i to confuft my wife, lut to take her with them, for
: fear they should be imposed upon, and the kind foul
- is every day upon her feet trudging into the city
t with one fWend or another, becaufe'really in the
r citv things may be bought for—half this
, ' you is true, f rom the extraordinary
, b. __,ains that she conflantly makes.
But, Sir, to my misfortune, I need not tell you,
Sir, who have. so well described the present scarci
ty, that every feeling heart is anxious to lefTen the
s confumpuon of wheat, and to make as great a sav
ing as pofliblf of bread in these hard times. The
number of fabftitutes for flour which have been
- fugged by the ingenious Sir John Sinclair, Prefi
i dent of thp Board •! Agriculture, and others,
r (track my wife very forcibly. " Dear me," she
f said one morning atbreakfatt, " how fmiplethe re
e ceipt is, jult one half floOr and one half potatoes ;
i 1 declare I will try it, and then we (hall make our
own bread, and what a saving that will be ! It is
I but having a little cast iron oven put up at the fide
i of the kitchen grate, and it will be the melt con
■ vrjenl and handy thing in the world ; il will bake
- a pie, or a few tarts upon occasion ; and you know,
> .-ny love, it wiU keep your leg of mutton hot and
- torn fort able any Wrap that you should happen to be
s detained Lloyd's. What do yon think of it, ray
' f?A Vu", a " ° pi,,ion of m ? own on any
e fubjeft of this kind. My wife is fovereigu out of
"!, M CO ?" n H" h r eUfc ; Which is only territory.
My far, fays I, « , olf koow beft _ h
ely the duty of every one to leff.n the contraption
' f Wh s t ' "d/ you think a mixed bread wiU an
• fwer, I would have y eu try it ; but, my love,
r'f I T l°lT ke . yOUr S nd lend the
■ '° at to bakehouse, and not buy an oven till
you fee ho # u answers." "Oh-dc ?r , no, by no
: means; now that n always yaur way. My God !
- trust abaker wuh an experiment when he is to be
xttl T CU ' bm lfU 'No. 1 thank
c you. \\ hy he would burn it on purpol'e." There
t .. no arguiug with my wife, she is so clever; and
- befidee, when once she takes np a thing, (he finds
1 !T™"l advantages in a minute, that did no,
her at firft, tha£ the fecortd reafo»s a.e ofte.
c more forcible than the original inducement. This
: as the cafe about the little call iron oven,
1 a was thought of only for the fake of this
bread but such a vanety of uses for au oven cam S
- crowding upon hermind that /he wondered how
• we had ever been able to go on without an oven.
S An oven would save 4tfdf in two months in the ex
A\ dedar;d ' for h£l ' Part,
- .hat liked baked meat as well as roast, and when
" eVC ,l' IT ;"' the chi,dr « could do very
well With a bit of beef ft a Ice pie, or , baked fho"
s derot mutton ; and, besides, a call iron oven was
* f ' heraw fold at an auction J
s When I came home to dinner mv vrifi-1 11
with great jov, that she ha 1 , l mc<
f bricklayer and the
e she had only paid , 'J,V
■™ 33 as new ; .here was no , " f ] '\ Rmi "
- about it, and It «a- rn, 1 ■ ' crac k
, • Aa - r ru:e charmrrg ; th.r- wa s
only one thing tha" fihe d'H r.ot know how to ma.
oa „ e , there was nm rnom Uji tjje the hfe-for
u,°o'ven without she was
flire, if the bi ifkJayer' iv'U ntjt bic<> an vs.
!,av; contrived ir folUcfupw : But, harr* Jhe copper,
it was not wanted often, it might be pat in the lit
tie back cellar under the coifming-hpuit. It w. ..„i <
!*eeafv, the bricklayer to carry up a tW. I %
[ saw ihe had fettled tliewlule pltti, and :lie enter
■aincd me during dinner \vith the prep.-i'aitioas (he
[ had mads for our new bread. She OS Aire, flic
I fa id, that potatoes woujd be dear, Leraufe every
body was going to eat them, ? '■$ toe Hfecl
I the precaution to buy in as many a& (he thought
would serve us for the winter. " Go" : God ! r.'.y
dear, they vv.iii where can you &ep th<ifn > '
" I warrant yi u I'll h d joom,' fays :u~, " and
ag to their spoiling I lianlyver for them ; ho*v ;]o I
preserve pears till the month of Jv.ne. and fureiy
they are more drlicaic than potatoes." I know
how clever my wife is at tbefeihing? ; her pteferv, s
are excellent, and there is not a week-but tome of
our friends are forced to fend to us for a pot or two,
wlien their own aieall spoiled ; and my wiff alway*
takes care to have enough ofl that very account.
W«l),fir, next day my wife begged of me o '[oe
a; the coffee-houfe, because 1 km iv he kitchen
would be quite taken up with the bricklayer, aijd
(he was determined to lose no time, sot (he 'would
have a loaf to put in as soon as the oven was few} '
Well, fir, I went >v Slaughter's coffer-houle, ainl
♦old fry friends how neccft'ary it was for eve-v !jo
dy to set an example in thefc ba'd times of eating
i mixed bread, and that 1 was d'.-ter miiied tointo
duce it in my own family. Indeed 1 said mv wile
was actually about it. " Aye, Mr. C-tkelwj,"
said a neighbour, •* you are the man to lead urthe
way ; y«u have a wile that k:>ows how every
thing ; I'll be bound tfcat toe makes bread At for a
prince if ihe lets about it." This is the way, Mr.
Editor, that all my friends speak about my wife,
the has got fii'h • name for cleverness. So 1 went
home quite full ofourwewbread—No, quite dated
I m«9B, sot ok, Mr. to this day. and it •
0* weeks ago since we began to bake, I have not
got a bellyful of home made Dread.
I 'filh I had time to go through all our experi
ments. One time our loaf would not rife, another
time it would not come ou{, it ftuckfaft to the bo. -
torn, it wanted fait, it had two much fait,it w.'.s too
wet, it was too dry, it -was fome'l'mes qirte dough,
but in general it waslnirnt to a cinder. It went
on this way far the firft week ; my wife anc I
conld not dife'over the reason. We had tried po
tatoes in every way ; we had.bailed them, rn filed
ttum, pulveirfed them, poured water after xv,
over them to make them white ; we had reduced
(I fay we, for being a national object, 1 was
to take a part, befideF, I own I was a little on tne
alert, for I promih d n friends at Slaughters
to bring them a loaf) 2olfes. of potato.s to 2,' and
had made excellent starch of it, though "ve'cuuld
not make bread. We had consumed half the ftc.k
of potatoes that was to serve us all w:• u•, w'htuj
getting a single loaf thn-t was eatable. My wj/e
cried for vexation ; (lie was fCi'e thru miift be son •
thitig in the matter that we iriit of, for
(he knew as well how to make bread a r y I
in England ; but (he would find it out before Oie
i lept- v — • ' ■
An old who had now turned lL t.r f flnr,
of our acquaintance, was called in, rot becaule (1(4
did rot know as well as any baker in E nc h,c»
to make bread, but there be fdme knack, i#
managing the ovenihat (! e was unacquainted.
something in the way of hea:mg i:, pr of putiing
the in i', or of raking it out. In llirit, for
onee (he would take adyitc. " 1., ,'d, Ma'am"
fays the floue fatlpr, " it is no wonder y.>u could
not fuccced : why Ma'am, you have got one of
thrfe kickshaw iron ovtns. Eord-bWts you, thry
do'nt anfwtr. They'd burn all the bread fu the
world before they'd bake it. There's no doing any
good with an iron oven" My wife wss flruck
dumb, but yet (lie was fatisfied ; {he was completely
acquitted ; the fault did not lie with her j but, how
ever, it would be easy to alter it, a small oven might
be built for a mere trifle on the good old plan ;and
an oven I accordingly got.
But mark thCconfcquences. The ki i hen chim«
ney |»-ss torn down, ( and foi'ne how ar other the flue
was injured. It was tmpoffible to live in it for fjnoke.
My maid gave us warning (he could not live in it,
and 1 vvas forced to dine at the coffee-houfe every,
day. My wife, however is a woman of resource ;
the applied to an ingenious mechanic who has great
- ' 10 chjmnies j this man has invented a fine appa
ratus for a kitchen } <• las a ratige that does every
thing; it boils, roa.ts, stews, ar.d bakes all by the
fame fire, and the expense is nothing, for it saves
itfeif in fire in a twelvemonth. Nothing would fa
tisfy my wife but to have this new fafhioned range,
and accordingly, at an expence of more than 50).'
1 have got my kitchen metamerphofed, and I am
making mixed bread at no allowance.
My wife has got into the way ; the cast iron o
ve„ on the new pl nn succeeds to a miracle ; and I
should be quite happy,g t were notfor the expend •
But really Mr Editor, there is nothingJoK
iconom) , I calculate that, every quartern loaf of
bread which ! make co(U me half a c*wn ; and
18 no T t , th . e wor!1 '«< sometimes wc all cr et the '
Rnpes ; I believe my apothecary's bill will come to
<k«
K d n n ° l afcr;be ,l " s to m y wife (no fi r n f ,
the bed woman upon earth, but you know that it
wa, natural that (he should „y all m f„ uret . so I*
SLTery a and ü bar ' ey, i 3nd ,bat the
J , ' y .'. ncxt day we had a mixture of pat
jneal, and that put our blood into a fever ; on the
third we had potatoe bread, and then we had indi
gestion. In (hort, without knowing a! firft tl e
£;• 7 h ""» >>«»"»»». i»«di ■
fion for th; apoiherarj. ; an(t n . e afe a || ;
again without venturing, however, to fay so -f
Mv°LF lS ° ld btC3d f-nvhe baker. ,
this nnt S ' 1 j ) T UrS V f somehow or another fourd
erin,lv h ?' y ,0 he P i|: -' « afl< me
toa nf t , hundred weight ofpot'ato,® ®
, r,C i; MI ;. . a " d *e very flour factor that
dlo L m y the Laugbourne
Wild ffoffce-Houfe, that ifthis saving wentw • ; . h £ • r
& /
J®. / Ul . t-
Br v • T *"" ~, '>"
P- * I I ,
im alt tlfc flour i'.: the kingdom would b? witßsd, and
It Ihe t ruth I to think fo'.
CHRISTOPHER CAKELING.
CrMielounu; Alley,, DtC. '23.
*«r«- " «• . . ••.-«■ >!■ 111 I -! immiMH " (_>■ "''WWf W" '-
I'hiladelphia,
WEDNESDAY EVFNING, July ZO, 1796. "
T'ie intelligence from Martinique announces
tin the f>"res with which the Englilh promised
th?mf Ives the conquefl of the Windward Islands,
?re about to fail for St. Domingo ; which island
they .cMfe'rtain tb : expc&ation of redu&ing entirely
uhdrf their <J«miiiio!i. They are momentarily ex
pe&H at the Mole, where they are without doiybt
aChyjiiy arrived ere this. They may possibly pof
"feiV !h»-mfe'ves of the coafls, but the interior of
the country vvtll never be in their pofleilion ; and
t' v will cxpofe themselves by the m?af«re they
1i 1 ken, to tin* mor ifying safe of rendering use
lels-all the forces sent to the Antilles
Courr. Ifranc.
ARRIVED AT THIS PORT.
DAYS. !
S»i>-Manrhefter, Shewell, Liverpool j8 ,
Polly, Ober, Paffamaquoddy ~20 ,
Maria, Bowcock, Alexandria io ,
Sloop Mothihg Star, W-Men, Virginia 3 (
CLFARrD.
Schooner Mary and Helen, Davis, N. Carolina
'Sloop Unity, Hu d, New York.
Arrived at Fort Mifflin.
Brig Weft fndnfi, Carlton, Jamaica
Superb, M'Fat lane, Haranna
Schr.-Sa-!v, Hitchcock, Demarara
B ril • Hollond, Shockley, St. Kitts '
IfabeHa, Drifcol, Jamaica .
, Connell, Aux Cayes
Sloop Mitand.), Hatris, Demarara •
Sloop Miranda, Harris, Demarara (
The brigs Lucy and Alexandria, schooner Hope
from Weft-Indies. j
Ship Pennsylvania, was spoke June 15th from ,
Philadelphia bound to Bourdeaux. (
Capt. Belcher, May 22, in lat. 45, 7, lon. 23, ;
fell in with a fleet of 40 fail, 6or 7 of which ap. (
peared to be (hips of the line, Hearing W. S. W.
was hoarded by the lieutenant of the Latona Bri- j
tifh frigate, who examined the brigs papers, and in- ,
formed that the fleet was from England bound to j
the Ea(l and Well-Indies.
The /hip Active, Blair, was at St. Übes May
15, to fail in 20 lays for Philadelphia.
The Argo, Frankford, has arrived at Havre |
from Philadelphia. '
BAD ROADS.
The roads in the neighbourhood of the city have '
been so long neglected as to become a disgrace to '
the country : 1 at present allude to the German
t.Avn and Wiflahicon Roads; which during the
winter were not paflable without the utmolt da - 1
ger ; and at the piefent moment, are fuffered to 1
be full of deep muddy holes, which at a trifling ex
pence, in ditching, might be rendered perfectly I
good without the charge of hor'.es and carts. Near 1
ttre of the r.eu*- unci old Gtrmantown road it 1
became so extremely bad,' that a load of good hay
tt i lately overset in the mud, ;.nd entirely perilh. 1
ed ; but it isfaid that the owner has commenced a '
suit againll the oveifeers for damages. This vile
hole is ivuv meT.ded ; but'there are a number of o
t!'-r» beiw en Mr Norris's grourfds at Fair Hiil,
a d Mailers s mill dam, on the Four h-Street road ;
a d alio on the Wiflahicon road, from the Robin
Hood to Callowhill-Street, which ought to be im
media-ely repaired, and will only require small diljj
ches for drains ; —the bridge over the mill race of
Mailers's dam, is moll dangerously broken, and
should an accident happrn at this place, very heavy
damages would doubtlefa be given tw the fuft'erer ;
whether it falls under the notice of the overseers or
the ownerrs of the mill, is immaterial:—A little to
the northward of Meredith'stan yardtheie is a moll
fhumcful gully in the road.
The longer thele places are unattended to, the
greater will be the exponce to the town (hip ; and
if the inhabitants ftiffcred no more than in their poc
kets, no traveller or stage-driver would pity them.
On the contrary they would be gl*d to hear that
theexpence was four fold, by way of punishment
for cis.oofingoverfeers so negle&ful of their duty.
STOCKS.
Six per Cent. - - , - . . . . i-ff,
Three per Cent . ...... . io/6.
,y£ rier Cent. l£,
4 per Cent. - - ....... T4 y
De!crr> I Six per Cent. ... - 13/6107
BANK United States. .... 24 pr. cent.
— P»nnfylvariia, .... iij
— North America, ... - 45
iniurance Comp. North-America y 14 .25
Pennsylvania, 9 0 roper cen
Exchange, at 60 days, . . -165181662-3
O- NOTICE.
Thert wlfl be fold or\, Tliuritlay the 4th of August, at
the Merehants' coffee houfe> in Second street,
One thousand ihares of the stock of
the North America Land Company.
If not previously difpofedof.
Philadelphia, aothjuly. dts
— :
THIS OAY IS PUBLISHED,
(Price thret-lixt.enths of a Dollar)
No. I,
[Elegantly printed in quarto and embellifeed with a
superb engraving representing the lirfl introduction
of the Maid of Orleans to Charles VII
To be continncd in weekly numbers 'fill completed J
HISTORY°'OF E FRANCE,
! ; rom the earliefl times until the conclusion of the pre
sent war.
'"*! IHE firfl number of this work and conditions of
-L publication may be lien at the following placi s,
where fubicriptrcus are received, viz.
Mt(Trs. Thomae Dobfon, No. 41, so I,lth Second
ftreet ; >M.-\thew Carey, No. HI, Market-street: John
Ormrod, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, bookfellcrs ; and by
K. I. Denoon, bookbinder, Farmer's-row, Dock-street;
John Aitken, No. .193, south Second lireet j at Bic
rtn .md Madan's priuting-otfice, back ef 77, Dock
(lrc'et, Philadelphia. d4t,
« ' .
' BY THIS DA.Y's TAILS.
BOSTON, Ju! v i>
Extras of a letter from Capt; Wyat Sr. Barbs, of
t?!!3 town, Coinmaacijfr of-tiir Hnp Ehterprife of
WifcafTet, to the Marine Society of tliia t jwu I
Tenerrffe, March 22.
" I chartered my (hip to Mr. Soien, ef the
houfa of Holy >ke and -Soren of Boilon, for a voy
age from Hamburgh toSu -rinam and back to Harp
burgh, and left the river Eibe on the sth of Ftb'.
'all, andion the 25 h being in lat. 44, 1,
K. long. 18,33, W - at 2 M. saw alar K e (hip in
the S. W. quarter, appearing' to be iri distress
made immediately for her, anrt at 4 P. M. fpokc
her, she proved to be a Britit'h tranfp rt with troops |
on board, fiom Cork, bound to the Well Indies in I
a l.'akly and didreil fihia'ion—bpth pumps coti
(lantly going. She was called the Ifabell, of Liv- ,
erpool, Charles Potter, com-naiider—Capt. Potter
immediately came on board my_ Ihip and infor:n-d •
me of his fitnation, aad requeftei that I (hotild fee ,
him fafe intoCarona or Lisbon, I told him my (hip ]
I was chartered at a very high freight, and that my
Voyage would be very much injured by.goinct bick c
to er her of those places—but that 1 was willing a
to fee him fafe into the wetlern Hlands',Madeira, or
she Canaries, and to render him every other service '
in my power, that I was willing to accoinmodatc as .
many of the gentlemen offices, as 1 conrer.ien ly 1
could, and hnd them in any of the aforefaid Islands. h
With this Potter seemed fatisfied and said he belied ;
ved that aiould do—that he would feud to the com
mander of the troops for his approbation—but in. ;
(lead thereof, he sent an informal ina that my (hip c t
and cargo was French and Duteh property and of
course a good and legal prize, and requc ».d imme r
diatc affiilance, which he was soon supplied with,by
an armed party who then drove Mr. Sorcn, mv fu I
percargp, and mv chief mate, with 8 of my sailors
into his boat at the point of the bayanet and lent 1
them 011 board the Ifabell prisoners, all this was
done before Potter had seen any of my papers t
My Chip then being'manned from the Isabel with
an addition of fourteen soldiers, two officers and a
doctor, on the next day, Potter thought it proper
to inform me, chat the ihip Enterpriie was his,and
that he (hould, after arriving at Lisbon difpaich us i,
for Barbadoes—for he w 9 positively sure t
had a double set of papers, and that the caigo was 0
Dutch and Fiench property—after examining all g
my papers both public and private, taking from me t
my invoice, bills of ladi.g, (hipping paper, clear- <
ance from Hamburgh, and federal others, which he j
thought proper to keep. He then went into the /
hold and broke open several cases and boxes—ta t
king out from each what he thought proper and <]
carried them off with him, all this was done in re
tahaiion for my kindness and humanity to him— f
after our arrival at this port, Potter detained Mr.
S. and my chief mate prisoners two days on board
the Ifabell—and also endeavored to detain ipe a
piifoner on board the Enterprise until- the British
consul who Was then at the Grand Canarie (houh v
arrive, Potter taking the liberty to load the En'er- ,
prifewith baggage (lores and soldiers from bis oid- ;
(hip Ifabell (which is flow condemn«d for'being rot
ten and in danger of fi..king in this road) he i«-d«-
tcr mined to take us to Barbajoes, and there to con ■ ,
demn'(hip and oargo, he has taken every means to ]
corrupt my sailors in order to make them swear t
that the ship is either Dutch or French property,
no matter which, for which reason he has kept
them on /hort allowance of bread and water, and ,
has kept my carpenter several days in irons. I t
have had 'he Jplealing fatisfaflion linee our arrival,
to have been in company with every one of the
Briti(h officers, who have declared not only tome ■
but to many of the principal merchants in this <
tyhce, that when Potter boarded my (hip, he sent ,
»his boat back and demanded immediate affittaoce,
informing that the (hip and cargo was a lawful prize, ,
■vhen as I before related, he hat) not seen one of my •
papers. I cannot fay too much in praise of the com
mander and officers of the Britilh troops, for their kind '
polite and genteel behaviour, to Mr. S. and my '
fhretmate, they speak very highly of the Civilities re
o lved from those gentlemen during their flay on board
the Iflabell. Porter told Mr. S. that I was pofit'rely
aFren hman and that the cargo was also French pro
pertv, and llfo that I was one of the greatest Rafcalj on
earth, and that he had papers lafflcient to-hang me ill
England (a fine reward indeed for fa.ving the lives of
near 300 of his Britaaic fubjeat) at the fame
lime told Mr. S. that he did not think he could con
demn iiis property, only part of the Cheese as being
Dutch Mr. S. quits me here, a.d intends for En
gland, by whom I (hall fend my ptoteft agaiuft Potter :
now Gentlemen, I am confident If juilice akes place on
our arrival at Barbadoesl (hall be acquitted with honor,
licing conscious of not having a liugle paper of any
thing else 011 board of my (hip, that can gainfjfy or con
tradict what I have always profeft myfelf to be, and
what you have always known me to be a citizen of tke
United States of America—l (hall write you from Bar
badoes, as loon after my arrival there as I know my
fate it is peculiarly aggravating to rae, to know that
mod of my cargo will be rtiined before a decition takes
place.
N. B. The owners of the Ulabell are Mcfirs. Tarl
ton and Blackhoufe, of Liverpool.
APPOINTMENTS—by authJritv.
Jonathan Jackson, Esq. of Newbury-port, to be
Supci visor ot the Maflachufetls Diftricl, vice hon.
Nathaniel Gorham, dee.eased.
John Brooks, Esq. of Medford, to be Infpe£lor
of Survey, No. 2, vice Jonathan Jackson, Elq.
appointed Supervisor.
Samuel Bradford, Esq. to be Marshal for the
Dillridl of Maflaehufetts, vice John Brooks, Esq.
appointed Ir.fpedlor.'
It is certain, we are almost alwaysaflifted in our
dilemmas, by the French. We hardly entcitaiu
doubts on a fubjeft, before they dilfipate them.
SALE OF FRENCH PRIZES.
It is afaft that may be relied on, that the duties
received «t theCudom House on French prizes
lent into the port of Boston only, (ince the begin 1
ning of the prelcni war, amount to the sum of
twenty three thousand dollars—exclusive of {On
nage and wharfage. [Chronicle.
1' 's a fa£t, that if the Englidi and Spani(h crui- j
zers had been allowed to have brought their prizes 1
11 here, and f !.] tfierti, as well as the Fiench, dtir
. )g the prcfeut war, oar Cuflom Hoijfr would have
■ -w«d mare than Twenty three thousand dollars
.n duties, exclufiveof tonnage ! !
J. An 1■ h alio a fact, that it we had originally ta
<eii a'itheie prizes ourselves —the immediate hene
til to our country, would have amounted to feve- 1
ral millions !
It cvPtainly i? unbecoming the dignity of Rcpub- !
ncans to .enquire, whether such proceedings would
!:.ive been ronfiftent with honefiy
" Honor's the Tie of Slaves I"
[ ft-Tercury. .
Capt, Jowrdan, of the brig Fame, of Portland, i
was taken a«d carried into Grenada, May 25, and ! '
detained for trial, on pretence that (he had been j
fmuuglwg, hccauf there were ten pieces of Nan- .
kins l.naeeounted for. The Capt. was, k ? pt ou ;
(hole. H.uvcver, oil the ill JWAeJ at iiigfrt, the
mate and trew, joined by a pait of the men of 1
war's men, retook the veflel. and put. to sea.— '
Sinwc whi h ptrio*. (he has not been heard of by the 1
(>1 pi ai 11 who has now ariircd in town by the way of 1
Philadelphia. ,
On Wednesday a Frenchman was committed to jail .
charged with afTin-It ng a black man the eveningbefore,
and cutting him fever ely in the faee, with a hanger. r
At the late fire inClurlellon, a negro mm cjirtibed.
up the (Iceple of a house of worlhip, denominated " the
Old L.lurch," and by his personal exertions preserved c
the biukiing. The j?en«roity of the citizens of Char- t
ldton 011 his occafioil, was not- lei's notable than the r
hiToifm of the Negro; he is to be-let free, and receive
300 guineas asa reward for his courage.
Wednefda), Ju|y 13. Armed schooner Venns, J
Smith, 1 obago, 28 days. Left there, capt. Townly, '
of Portsmouth ; and capt. Sheppard of New-Haven, i
Spoke nothing. c
1 hurfday July 13. Arrived schooner Polly, Dela- i
no, ot. Phomrs's 17 days. Nothing new.
May _io, was spoke, brig Po|ly of Salem, from
Lisbon, bound to London. *
Ihe Iwo ,Bratheis, Moreten, from hence, is at
Philadelphia. <
Ihe Hope, Chandler, from hence for Liverpool, was '
f'polce 9 days out. in long. 58. Mr. Wainwright, of 1
this town, was apafienger.
NEW-YORK, July 19. 1
FROM FRANCE.
I he Ihip E»rne, Capt. Albin, arrived vefterday
lin 46 day* from Bourdeaux. Her advices from !
thence are to the id df Ju«e. We could not hear <
of any papers being brought tjyuny ot the paffen. ,
gers, or that were r.ceived !,y any peifo B3 i u the ci ,
ty* Letters received contain u*i intelligence, fur
ther, than that all kinds of American produce had
iallen lately near 25 per cent, at Bourdeaux. Capt.
Albin informs, verbally, that a peace had been con
cluded between the French a'nd the king of Sar
dima, on veiy favorable terms to the Republic. He
also flutes that the French were said to have bee'. '
fuecefsful in lome operations in the Mediterranean '
—but de could furnifh np particulars on the fubjefl.
from St. Vincent*.
We yellerday received, via Maitinico, the St.
Vtifcents Royal Gazette ps the nth June, from
which we have, givsn, this day, the particulars of
the '.te reduction of the principal fprtrefs 1a that
island.
vipf. /\oii on the 30th, June, 30 leagues to
the welltva d of Cordavan, spoke the (hip Eliza,
Joltn Bass, matter, from Charleston bound to Bor
deaux, 42 days out.
A larjje Daniih, tvith a great number of paflTen
steis, failed from Boiirdeaux for New-York, in
company with capt. Ablin.
Capt. Sheffield was to fail from Bordeaux, for
New-York, in a few days after Capt. Ablin. Out
other American velTcl was lying there, name not
recolledted.
Yesterday arrived here the (hip Nancy, capt. For
reft, in 46 days from Newry. with 450 pafiengetsj)
They express themfclvts in the molt flattering terms
of the obliging difpofitiou and good conduct of the
captain during the voyage.
June jj, spoke the ship Pennsylvania, bound to
Bourdeaux wiUi paflengers.
June 18. spoke tlfe Columbia, from New-Yoik,
bound to London.
Arrived at this Port,
Days,
Ship Minerva, Clarkfon, Halifax 14'
Nancy, Drnromond, \ Newry 65
Sloop Fanny, Foster, St. Thomas's 14
Ship Plato isfafe arrived at Jamaica from Bolton.
Brig Indultry, Baldwin is arrived at Cape Fran
' cois from this port.
Biig Caroline, Cotton, from New-London is
arrived at Jamaica.
Brig Polly, White, is arrived at Cape Nichola
Mole from Newbern,
Sloop Governoi, Riley, fafe an ived at Cape Ni
chola Mole, from Charlelton.
Ship Riling Sun. Davidfon, is arrived at Am
sterdam from this port in 35 days.
Trarflations from Dutch Papers, by the Three Friends
Continuedfrom yefierday's Argus.
, , May 12^
In the feflion of yesterday of the National Aflem
blv, a letter was brought forward from General Bour*
nonville, itating a edition of arms haviHg taiten place 1
betwien the Kepublic and the king of Sardinia,
until the terms of peaea fiiould be agreed upon, and
that by way ps security the Krench were put in poflef
fion of Coni, Alexandria and Ceva ; and the king of ■
Sardinia had agreed to the paflage of the French
through his dominions to Lombardy.
The fame day it was agreed, that a commission of
five members ihouid be chosen out of the National
Aliembly, to take, advise and dispose of the goods of
the late itadt holder.
In the fitting of the izth» the President made men
tion to the Naticnal Aflembly, that he had, late in the
ni»ht, received intelligence from the Provincial As
sembly at Amfierdam, Hating, that a body of armed
eanoniers foic,cd tlieil- way into the Aliembly room,
and demanded the said Aflembly to open the jail;
that the populace upon their refufal, had broke open
the lame, and set all the prisoners at liberty.-—ln con
sequence ot which tbe National Aflembly immediately
dilpatched two squadrons of national cavalry for the
proieftion of the committee of the National Altcni
bly. and two Ajuadrons of French cavalry to their '
v ft
♦ '7' ' -
i
afliftitnee, -wKcf! flopped at H-rVir. in tbr n : ?ht of the
riiK, arid marched 01! tbe I tth >r!y i.. ••criiisg'
■vith the garrifiift oi" fairt try Yhtt'vhc .an •*« at
Amsterdam a mut 10 o\h;ck mc , /
Some of tht Convention th'..ik.lt r. fHirv tor
fortity the i'rontifi's as I'o.jii as ;-.oflihle ; tr.tt it
may We proh a. '*, that the A®iLr;ans ipjEcrd tc
the greatest exfrrt.oaf fi> make up totiVi in 1t...y,
bv sn attack o!) tii Rhine. Indeed it may be
in cafetfre Frci.c'h fhojld get totally beat, {«• hi■ ,b m?y
b>-th'e.cai.-) tiiat the Prufli iiis will ri:'k an attack, up
-011 this counjry, to reltore ftadtkolder to lus Old
Titration.
Ma.iy debates took place o*s this. figWeif) ; and tie
j qucftion- was delayed until, the next ieilion.
j By a letter from Stockholm, dated tlie. a<s't> April,
I it appears, that they ate IliJl preparations lot
war throughout that country: Their squadron, con
fining of JielKiks, galleys am) gun boats, will foflit
be in readitieis, ar be c»i ire.:■ e*l by Admire! Sted
ing, brother of the r >r at )Vteribiu'j;h»
J he grand fleet, conltftin>; ui .about .;a fad .at Carlb
croon, Will be soon ready, lor La, coir.iriandetl Ijy ad
miral Nerdenklkield. Bar •11 Slot kellien- will h!lve
the command 0!' the land fore?, conClling of about
10,000 men, which artiiy the inhabitants* of FinUtid
are fully . Inclined to double, in cafe" of Hecefli^y,
Ihe King of Sweden hasreceived he Du. h am
bnfTador at Stockholm, and has acknowledged the
new Conltiuition,
BRUSSELS, May 9. ,
Gen. Mat'ceau, who commands the .light wing
of the army on theSambreand Meufe having brought
his tiocpsinto fiich a position by particular move»
ments upon the Hundfruck,,that the Aulitian Ge
nerals thought neceilary to enquire into the rcafon ;
which they have received from the French 10 their
fatisfaith.n, viz. " on account of the -jKlories gained
by the French, the troops are very much en
courjged, ivifbiiigforJiruilar TRIUMPHS.''— The
Aultrian Generals, meantime, make all possible
fpeedto put themfclves in a state of defence, but
do not appear delirous of makiug the fit It a'tack.
1 lie Aultrians take all necessary precautions to
defend thcmfelves, though they seem not to be in
clined to ancjthcj attack. They have raised large
batteries and llronglymanned the Iflaridbefore Val
lendar, wkich pott they declare they will defend uti*
til the last moment.
■ The Frcnch have likewise strongly fortified the
Ifiand oppolite Neuwicd
Letters from Luxembourg mention, that there
had arrived there about jo© Aultrian defevers,
chiefly eavalry, which after the sales of their horses
vsftre ient to Mctz. The desertion of tic Atiftriant
in general is very great.
From the Village Mejfenger.
OF all the things beneath the fun,
To love's the greatest ctufe j
If one's deny'd, then he'a undone;
If not, 'tis ten times worse.
. Poor Adam, by his wif», 'tis known,
Was ttick'd some years ago ;
But Adam was not trick'd alone,
For all his font are so.
Lovers, the (trangeft fools are made,
When they their nymph's pursue,
Which they will ne'er believe, 'till wed,
But then, alas 1 'tis true.
They pray* znA tk»y ador*,
'Till weary'd out of life ;
And pray, what's a!! thit trouble for i
Why truly, for a wife.
How odd a thing's a whining sot,
Who sighs in greatest need, ,
For that,.which soon as ever got,
Doel make him sigh indeed.
Each maid's an angel, whilst (he's woo'd»
Bpt when the wooing's done,
The wife, mftead of flefh and blood,
Proves nothing but a bone
pis, more or less, in human life,
No mortal man can shun :
But when a man has got a wife,
He has them all in one.
The liver of Ptomctheus \
A gnawing vulture fed,
A fable, that the thing was thusj
The poor old ttnn was wed.
A wife, all men of learning know,
Was Talitalus's curse ;
The apples which did tempt him so,
Were nought but a divorce.
» Let no fool dream, that to his (hare
A better wi.e will fall ;
They're all the fame, frith, to a hair,
For they are women all.
More joys, a glaft of wine does give,
(Wife take him that gainsays)
Then all the daughters sprung from Evft
E'er gave in all theii days.
But come, to lovers here's a glass,
God wot, they need no,curfe;
Each wi(he» he may wed his lass—• x
No foul can wi(h him worse.
Just Publilhed,
BY THOMAS DOBSONj
At the Stone House, No. 41, south Second (Ireet,
neatly primed in one volume quarto, price fix
dollars the fine paper, or five dollars the com
mont _ . .
The Four Gospels*
TR ANSLATEDfrom the GREEK, with PRE
LIMINARY DISSERTATIONS, and notet
CRITICAL and EXPLANATORY,
By GEORGE CAMPBELL, D, D. F. R. S.
«. . .
I lincipal of Marifchal College, Aberdeen.
* # * The character of the Author fi»r aeutenefs
and etudition has been established by bis eflay on
miracles in answer to David Hui.e," the greatest
masterpiece of the kind ever published, and by hit
" Philosophy of Rhetoric," and to the merit of
the present work, the result of nearly forty year*
itudy and application, and the fubltance of hit
couife of lectures in his official capacity, the
reviewers have given'ample teltimony, but their ac«
count, however honorable to the woik, is too long
for a place in this advertisement, the work howev
er is now presented in an American edition at nat
more than t\plf the price of the London copy.
' J«ly zt. 4WJW
» 1Sfe 1 3 S.
Diftrifi of Pennsylvania : to wit.
BIS >t remembeied, that on the twenty-fourth day of Juue,
in ihc twentieth year of the Independence of the United t
cs Airerica, John Ormror\ ®t the said Dillricl hath v^-4
r*cpifitcd in iMs office the title of a book, theright whereor 7 x .
he claims as Proprietor, in the wo?ds following\ to wit : new
*• A fr.ort and candid Enquiry into the proo!s of Christ's
44 divinity; in which Do£toi Prieftlev's opinion concerning
*• Christ is occasionally considered. In a letter to a triend.
4 ' By Ch.ulis H. Wharton, D. D. and Member of the
Piiilofophical Society of Philadelphia. ej
41 Whosoever denieth the Son the fame hath not the Fath
i% cr. Let that therefore abide in you which ye have heard . (
«• from the beginning ;if that which ye have heard from the P rin
*S beginning lhall remain in you, ye also ftiall continue in es.
" tht-(on and in the father. St-John, lftEpift. c. ii. v.23, ande
« 24." of ?
in" conformity to the aft of the Congress of the United States veni'
intituled 44 Art aft lor the encouragemeni of learning, by fe- T
•curing the copios of Maps, Charts and Books, to the authors eulti
«iud oroprietois of such copies, during the times iheraift T i c j r
mentioned.* SAMUEL -CALDWELL* cour
Clerk of the Diftrift of Pennfylvar.ia. -p
Jt:re-2Q ia 4 ww dece
All perions having demands
on AN THONY ROLAND BUSSIER, are requested to _
bring in their accounts on or before the firil day of August
next, or they will be excluded from, a dividend then to
takeoiace. WILLIAM CHANCELLOR,") Fl
JONATHAN JONES, > Auditors. /
JO SI AH TWAMLEY, }
July 7. * __ _ _ *eod3t
Tor the use of Schools. 1.
Tomkins's Text, Round, and Running
hand copies. n
JLfST. publifbed, and for f»le by W. Young, the corncrof cier
Jccond iiid Cbefnut (lieets, and J Ormrod, No. 41 I
Chefnut-ftreet. Price of pr6ot impreffioni on fine paper, 1
dollar. Common, 75 cents. Executed in a ft vie superior , s e!
to any'that have been formeily engraved in the Uniied States,
and not inferior to any of the kind imported from Europe., «
Tune 30. 2jy«'.tw the
JOHN PAUL JONES. {-
INFORMATION is hereby giw.i, that ths late John tiof
Paul Jones was a proprietor of five shares (amount- doe
ing to about 5867 «cres) in a trail of lanct purchaftd by con
the Ohio Company, in the territory of the United States cert
of America, north-weft of the river Ohio ; and that his like
heir*, or legal representative, on application to the direc- fide
tors of said company, at Marietta in the territory afore- tho
VTaid, will receive a deed of the said five shares, or rights sets
of land.
The application may be made personally or by an agent, voli
but proper documents mad be produced to prove the "
claimant or claimants the legal heirs or representative of bo!,
the said Jones ron
n.b. As it is not known in what country tho person wh
or persons interested reside, it will be an aA of benevolence met
in every Printer in America and Europe, who lhall insert feS
this advertisement in his paper. f° r <
In behalf of the directors of the Ohio Company, isgi
HUFUS PUTNAM. and
Marietta, May 20,1796. [June 4 ] Jawgw «rid<
— r — — ~ acc<
AN extensive assortment ©f
Books and Stationary,
Wholesale and Retail] now opened and for Sale by ;„: t
WILLIAM YOUNG, ma,
£*okfeller, A T s. 52, Corner 0/Second and Chefnut-jlreets. tha
AMONG which are Enclish, Latin, and Grekk cor
Classics and Dictionaries, Divinity, Law, His- gra
torv, Travels, Voyagis, Miscellanies, and the mofl lufi
cfteemed Novels. l u '
WRITING AND PRINTING PAPERS, ne3
TrdßrtkeJmamilafliirers in Europe, and from hit ma- j '
nufao-orj 011 Brandywine, viz. imi
Imperial,plain and wove fl&tSmall folio poll, plain the
Super-royal do. do. Ditto gilt ten
Royal do. do. Blossom paperafforted ant
Medium do. do. Transparent folio poll feli
Demy do. do. Sup»rfi»e and common foolfc.
Glazed and kot-pre(T«d folio Marbled papers. Pri
and 4to extra largr poll coar.se papers.
Thick post in folio dito do. London brown, affonei
Ditto in 4to. ditto do. Hatters paper
Folio wove post, lined Stainers' paper
Qiurto ditto do. Common brown -p
DTtto gilt do. Patent Iheathing • f
Common Dze folio post. Bonnet boards ,wj
Ditto quarto, plain Binders Boards* a |
folio and quarto post, gilt, . I t
Also, a variety of other Stationary Articles, vir. F lO
Wedgweod and glass philosophical ink flands, well affort
ted ; pewter ink chcfts of various sizes ; round pewter ink
Hands; paper, brass, and polished leather ink (lands for the
pocket. Shining sand and sand b..«s, pounce and poance
boxes, ink and ink powder. Counting bouse and pocket pen
knives of the bell quality, ass (kin tablet and memorandum _
books. Red and colored wafera, common size, office ditto.
Quills. fiOm half a dollar, to three dollars per hundred,
aiack lead pencils, mathematical instruments, &c- &c.
All forts and furs of Blank Books, ready made or made
to order. Bank checks, blank bills of exchange and notes of 1
hand, executed in copperplate, bi Is of lading, raaaifefts J
•'eamrn's at ticks and journals, &c. ic. w ;
june 18 MW 3 W da
This Day is ptiblifhed,
v in,
BENJAMIN DAVIES, No. 68 Uigbjirvet, 3r
And m
WILLIAM COBBETT, Sccond-Jlrut, oppofitc CbrijFi b-
Church, 37
The Second Edition of ' «
Porcupine's Bloody Buoy,
With additional Notes and a copious Appendix.
July ti oaw4t
" The PANORAMA,
IN High-street, exhibiting a view of the cities »f Lon- |
don°and Weftminller, will positively dose on Tuesday
evening, the 19th inllant, and will not be exhbitcd in
Philadelphia again. J
July 13 6 1 J
Philip Nicklin & Co. i
HArE FOR x SAL£,
Souchong
Hyson Skin /
Young Hyson > FRESH XEAS
Hyson snd \
Imperial j
Yellow Nankeens ■
China Ware, assorted in Boxefr and Chests 1
Quicksilver
Bauda»r»o Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
ctells
London Market MADEIRA WINK
London particular >in pipes, hogiheads, & '
New-York Market ) quarter calks
Tenerifie Wine in pipes and fioglkeads
Sugar Candy bythe Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in flie«ts
3 Calks of Cutlery assorted
A few chests of Manchester Goods, allotted thick
f<», cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small pdekages of black fewing-Glks
ii Tierces Virginia Snake-Mpt.
„ Nails assorted in eaflu 1
1 July 18 mw<Jlf
F 0 R S A L E,
A. very Valuable Eflate, 4t
CALLED TWITTE NHA M, fit«ate in the _
township of Derby, an l county of Drlswatc, \
7 1-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a tmleffrom ths. p£i
new Weflern road: containing acrcs o£ excellentlana, ccil,
45 &f which watered meadow, yo of priir.c wood
land, the reft arable of tha quality; i here ai« nde
on the preroifesa good two story briclchoufe, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under t:he whole, with a puimp-weli u.r
of excellent water in front; a large frame br.rn, ftabl *cn
and other convenient buildings ; a fir.oke-houfe and (tone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of pe icb
es. The fields are all in clover, except those ininiediately
, Under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con- r~t
\ venient for grazing. 1
The situation is pleaiknt and healthy, and from the high er
I' eultivntion of the land, the jjood neighbourhood, and the
1 vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman s ]
country feat. po 1
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob ma
deceased, and offered for sale by ths
; Mordecai Lewis, tin
Oi£l. 9. eo.] Surviving Executor. of (
v PROPOSAL i, th!
0 By BIOREN 'Sf MADAN, kn
For publidiing by Subfcriptmn, that celebrated Work,
5 Godwin's Political Justice.
Prom the last London Edition.
t e -r m s:
I. It will be publiflied m two large voluir.es.dnodccimo. h[[
11. Price to Subfcribers,two dollars, handfoincly bound, th(
to be paid on delivery of the work, ac ]
111. As foonasa number of Subscribers appear,fuffi
>f cient to defray the expence, it shall be put to preis.
1 IV. The names of the Subscribers lhall be prefixed.
■ The following Chara&er of this work c 0
)r is extrailed from the Monthly Review, p. 311, for
■' Match, 1793. tic
" We have no small degree of pleasure in announcing
tlicprcfent work to our readers t as one which from the
freedom of itsenquiry, the grandeur of its views, and the
fortitude cf itsprincipl-s, is eminently deserving of atten
n tiof). By this eulogium, we would by no means be under
t- flood to fubferibe to all the principles which these volumes
y contain. Knowledge is not yet arrived at that degree of T
:s certainty which is requilute, for ttny two men to think ft
is like on all fubje&s; neither has language attained that con
:- fiftent accuracy, which can enable them to convey their w j
:- thoughts, even when they do think alilK, in a manner per- UD
ts feiftly correel and mtslligibde to both. 1 hefe difficulties
are only to be overcome by a patient, inccfiW, and bene
t, volent inveftigatien. "
ic " Many of the opinions wk<ch this worrc contains, arc
>f bald ; some of them arc«"vcl ; and some doubtk-rs are er
roneous but that which ought to endear it even to thofc
n whose it may offend, is the strength of argu
:e ment acUuced in it to prove, that peace and order ir.oft ef
rt fe&ua'.ly promote the happiness after which political re
formers are panting ; —that as the progress of knowledge
is gradual, political reform ought net to be precipitate;—•
and that convulsive violence is dangerous not only to indi
viduals (for that result comparatively would be of small
- account) but to the general cause of trath. It is the pp
pofitecf this principle that infpirei the enemiisof politic
al enquiry with sb much terror ; it is the supposition that
change mull inevitably be attended by the turbulence apd
injullicc of comnaotior.-, and that innovation cannot be
made without t.v: intervention of evils more deftroctive
l j. thau thofc which are intended to be reformed. Under the
,k convi&ion of this philanthropic fentimsnt, of calm and
s- gradual reform, (whichin its proper place "he has fully il
iß luflrated) Mr. Godwin proceeds without fcruplefirft t.o en
quire into present evil, through its essential branches, and _
next to demouftrate future good.
3- " DividinghisjKfii'kintoeight books, and making jfp,
r~ IMPORTANCE OF POLITIC A L~INSTITtrTHrrTT thtr fubjef [
the firft, he begins by an attempt to prove tbr omnipfr- t
tence of government over the moral habits of mankind; [
and that on these moral habits their -wifdonj, virtue and ar
felicity depend." aI
fc. Subscriptions received by the publiftvers at their CJ
Printing Office, back of No. 77 Deck-flreet, Philadelphia. yi
Jnne 18 jrweoim al
JLsJheton and Jamts Humphreys,
CONVEYANCERS,
TTAVE removed their office to No. 01, Valnut-flreet,
. A next door but two to the corner of Deck-llreet, .
where ail INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn at e<
a moderate charge, with care, accuracy and difpatcli.—
They likewise buy and fell Real Estates upon commif
ftons, and procure Money upon Loan on good fccurity.—
The business of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NOT A- _
RY PUBLIC is also tranfailed at the said office as usual
■he by ASSHETON HUMPHREYS.
nce N.B. Good Notes discounted.
en " July 5. eo6w _
um ' J ; I
Ten Dollars Reward v
,de Ran away,
►of "PUNE 23d, From Brian M'Laughlin, living at Henry
J Clymer's placc at Schuylkill point, a Young Woman, n
who passes by the name of Polly Morrison, low set,
r darkifii complexion, ftnall grey eye 9, about feventeenror c
eighteen years of age, had on a dark-colored fliort gown, J
and linfey petticoat. She stole and carried away a trunk
W a cocfiderable sum of money, and a great many other *
articles. Left behind her a cloak of coating lined with
green baiie, whidi is supposed to be stolen. The owner,
j? 3 by proving property may have it. Whoever lodges her in
any goal, so that fh« may be brought to prosecution, shall
receive Ten Dollars Reward.
Jane *8 xaw3« BRIAN MCLAUGHLIN. «
>
, t Law Book-Store,
No. 3*3, High Street.
GEORGE DAVIS begs to inform his proftffionM '
friends, that per the Ceresjuft arrived from Lon
don, he has received the following fcarceand valuable
books. State Trials, n so!. in 6 and n vol. Ruff-
g t head's Statutes at large, 16 vol. Woods' Inftitutej,
— C»ke*s Entries, Raftell's do. Browne's do. Hearnes
pleader, Coke's *d, 3d, and 4th Inilitutes, j vol. Roll's
Abridgment, Brooke's do. Bulftrode's Reports, 1< oil's
do. a vol. in I, Floyers Pro£lor's praAice, Clarke's
Admiralty, Rutherford's Institutes, Deinoiogy, or the
Eloqaence aud Logic of the Bar. These with his very
large collection from Dublin now on hand, will enable
him to fupjjiv an entire library or a (ingle book, as
gentlemen may have occalion on their immediate ap
plication.
July 14. awto
r j> n ■
The Public are refpeftfully
' iarorzned, that all business in the line %f a BROKER con
' tiancs to be traulailed at the office of the fubferiber, No.
Is 4, next door to the land-office, who re
turns his rhanks for the patronage he lias already been fa
vored with.
Lands, &c. for sale, in various parts of the United
St?t» —Particulars of which may be seen on application.
Corr?& numerical btoks will be kept of die Walhing
rick- ton and Canal Lotteries, No. 2, and information given
where tickets may be had
Money procured on good notes at the Ihertell notice.
MICHAEL GILL.
N. B. A complete assortment of Patent BOLTING
If CLOTHS, American manufaderc. July .8. faswiw
To be Sold, /
At No. 128, North SuihJ-St'.it, and by fiveral cj
th» 4b6ib-'caries in this City. _ m „
-TRANSFERS of rhe rightlo rc.We p.ins a "' l ""'j^ (lA
' ti6»« f'oro the human bsdy, as fecuredt
FKRKINN, by pnrentT wi'h ...flratncnts and d.rc..
. erlTisy fbr the Wa fVice. This mode of treatment »IpV£
brly itfeftil iu relieving p««» »> th " ' ,cjd 3CC ' J5 ': '
• fide Arnvh. bark, rhwmatifms, recent
Notwrhßaading «he utility of this piaHice.it tno P
I fuinert biH there arc cases m which this 2nd every o.her
, remedy may sometimes fail. |aW «
June itt,
• War-Office of the United States, Ph
; May 4th, 1796- im
• nnHE following Rules explanatory of thi»fe Ra
1 the 15th ."jjbru-iry, 1789, are to be onierved by al t ] u
1 yierfons entitled to Lands, in purfu-sce of relotves (.1 hj
Every certificate of the acknowledgment of a deed 01
power of attorney, either before a notary pubUc or other
magistrate, must, in addition to what is ufnal, fet-torth
that the person making the acknowledgment is known to
the notary »r orlier magistrate -, for which purpose words U
of the following import must be infci ted in the certificate.
"And I do moreover certify that the iaid A B ™ ,ll ißg |
this acknowledgment has been for person all)
' known to me."
If (he notary or ether magistrate has rcafon to Relieve _
that he is the person he represents himfolf to be, lie wn
atfo certify it. ,-e-i
Andifthe proof Tie made by a or
theymuft fweartofome general ftateof thcirknowledge 0. >•,
'• him,- which,matter must be jfef forth in the certificate ; and
'' the notary public, or other naagi;lrate, before wh»iti tj
acknowledgment is made, "must aifo set f6rth that the wit
' ne3 or wit'nefles has or have been for upwards oi j ir
pertc-nally known to him. 1 ' c l (
If a justice of the peace is employed, the clerk of Ihe
court of the corporation or eounty nmft certify that filch
,r person is a juftkeof the peace of th; county or corpora
tion as the fcafc may Ik, and that full lakh is .tee t« his
£ iSs as fuck. JAM£S M'HiINR-Y, _
ie Secretary.ol War.
Mav 12. iiwim
>- , L_ —
;; George Dobson,
)f T) EOS leave to inform the Store-Keepers in Town and j
i_ Xj Counrrv, that he has removed from Market-Street |
N°* 25, iouth Third-street, „
il where he is opening a Large and Elegant A (fort meat 4bc
r " undermentioned articles —viz.
-' K Superfine London Clothfi and Kerfevn*®^»
-- "Yorkfhiie second Do. 3ft.
do. do.
c M TSS Blue Cd9tingt
r- Flannells,&c. T
fc Manchester Printed Caliicoet,
i- London Chintz ditto',
f. Blue and ditto Furnitures,
-India ditto,
re Long Cloths, Coffaes, Baftas, Batti!las& Conjevrcmait
L 4"4 9"® 5"4 6-4 Superfine India Sook Muslins,
• lm 4-4 and 9-8 India Book Handkerchiefs*
U 4- «v and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 &6-4 plain do. Mailtos, gi
3 ~ 4-4 & 6-4 British jaconets, ai
c " <6-4 BritithChecks and gripes, p
4"4 n^'a do. do, do. t j
4-4 ditl« Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, See.
)e A large affortmcnt of figur'd and plain Muflineti, —
rc ■Quiltings, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
ie Fancy Wailkoatings,
id Ginghams of the firft Quality, fubjeft to Dra^-back,
!l- India Nankeens, '
n- Men's White and coloured Silk stockings.
jd May 9
For Sale,
M A Valuable Grift and Sa.w Mill. jl
TN New Jerfcy, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbour.
' j A The Grift Mill is fnety by forty feet, two water wheels,
and calculated for four run of Stones, with screen, fans
and boulting-cloths, &c. The Saw-Mill has two faws,and
; lr capable ofcuttingfiveto 6 100 thoufandfectof Beards per
la - year. A valuable piece ef Cedar Swamp, within a mile
_ : and a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
of a Landing The Lumber, &c. may be taken by water }
from the mill tail.
Also FOR SALE,
Several Valuable Tracts of Land,
In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be receiv
ed in the notes of Messrs Morris and Nicholfon, or in (
~ Cash.
For further information apply to the Printer.
Ma r 1 7 - law "
-i " JOSEPH COOKE,\ -
) GOLDSMITH JEWELLER,
The corner of Market ami Third-streets, Philadelphia; s
— TyT OST re tpe<slfully informs his friends and the public,
IVi that he has received, per the last arrivaks, a com- H
plete and general assortment of almost
Every Article in his Line; 1
iry Immediately from the manufaaures of London, Bir- j
in, mingham, and Sheffield, all of which are of the newest
• e » i falbion-, And will be fold, wholesale and retail, onthe -ow- g
m eft terms, and the Notes of Mr. Robert Morris, and Mr. n
irn,' JohifNicholfon received in payment at their currjnt value, p
tik N- B- The upper part of the House fn which ht now
tier to ile lgt < furnilhed or unfurnifhed. raw 6
Lottery and Broker's Office,
• i* A 7O -64 South Secondfirect, "
tall pCKE PS in the Canal Lottery No. 11, are now rea-»
'■ dvgfor sale, a Check Book kept for the examination ''
• Tickets, and Prizes paid, without dcdu&ion.
— The Subscriber solicits the application of the Public or '
any oi his friends who wish to pureh;,fe or fell Bauk Stock, :
Certificates, Bilk of_ Exchange, or Notes, Houfcs, Lands, <
Lott3 or Merchandize of any kind, or to obtain Money ;
. on deposit of property. ,
WILLIAM BLACKBURN, ■
lb ' e Lat< Agent for the Canal Lattery Company.
0- Shares an i Tickets in the late Newport: Long
\V harf, Hotel and Public School Lottery examined; a
nes complete lift of all the prizc'9 haying been received at
>11 s this office.
)11'« Jnne 6. w&5
<e s t
the Public Notice is given,
"Y sO the merchants and others concerned in th* (hipping
>ble 1 at State-liland, under quarantine, that a Cart will
, at attend every mo.ning, sundays excepted, from nine to
ap- ten o'ebek, at the Health office, No. 31 Walnut-street, to
convey provisions or other Refrelhments to the Hospital
1v and for the use of the crews. '
It is expe<sted that the Bag,, Bafcets, or other packa^
. es with supplies, will be directed with the name of the vef
1V fel and captain they are intended for, to prevent millakes
con- at deliYcry.
No. , B T, ordcr of . of Health for port of Phil*.
> re- del ,P t ; la ' LEV! HOLLINGSWORTH, Chairman,
.fa- JillM 5
,- lKd Insurance Company of N. A.
tbn. Dividend agreed upon by the Directors, for the
ing- X lail fix months, is One Dollar and One Eirhth of a
iven Dollar on each (bare of ftocTc in thU Company; whlch
will be paid to the Stockholders or theirl ; J rJprefenU
:e. tives, at any time after the lift instant.
B r order of the Direacrs,
w Inly I j EBENE *SR Sec'ry.
For Sale,
A Few Ca&sof i niVQuafey
I N I) I G O.
Enquire at Nk 71, South VVar«r fh-eec.
May *
GEORGE HUNTER,
CHEMIST,
No. 114 South Second Street,
H\S for these two years pall introduced a new fpccies
' of PERUVIAN BARK, called YELLOW
BARK, which after rrpcated trials by the principal
Physicians of th.s city, is now preferred in all cases of
importance that require it, to tie belt lt»d and Pale •
Bar):. It is a powerful Aftrinjrent fitter, fits well on I
the ftoraach, is certain in its and requires only
' half the ufnal quantity for a dose.
Many of the citixeiu of Philadelphia are how ac
quainted with its virtues, the knowledge of which
ought to be extended over the Union. He has a large
1 'Aipply of the Yellow Bark, and a general aiTorrment of
- Drugs, Colours, Gla/s, Dye Stuffs isV.
LIKEWISE,
; Salt Petre, Jalap, and Camphor,
By the Quantity.
May 19. * law ?L_
: FIFTYI)OLLARS REWARD.
: nAN away from the fubferiber living near Chur,ch
! t\_ Hill; Qu"en "\«ns County in the State ofMaryland'
sbout thefirtk of January last, a black negro man.uamed
Sam, about thirty years ef'age, J feet $or 9 inches high, .
his a crooked finger on one hand, and one leg and foot
fmallcrthan the other, fsmcwhat round-fbouidered, his
clonthing unknown. Any perfou who will secure »r
bring said fellow home.fe that I may get him again CuH
have the above reward withceafonable charges.
WILLIAM JACOBS.
Tune 4. 'lawwn.
Mr. FRANCI S,
[Of the New Theatre J
1 r T" , AKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
I J. fchobis and Us the public. Mr. Francis intends,
u i on hb return froja Maryland, to open a public ac«-
jiicmj for dancing, hpon a plan entirely new. He
■ flatters hiuiielf that his attention to his pupils hi
le theito renders any prouiifes of conducting his future
fthemes on the tnoft liberal and ftri&eft terms, »f pro
priety, totally nnneceilary.
jV. B. Private tuition .is ufuil. ,
Plans ot the city ot Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Lib-kkties and diftriiS df
Southwark;
Publjfhed, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High street,
( Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is a 6 inches square, and has been en
graved by o.ie of the firft artifti in the city, from a latt
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
eity, its population, trade, government, J&c.
■My 19 t« & ftf
Choice St. Croix Sugar ts 5 Rum,
NOW landing from on board the Brig Willian Peil
nock, Capt. Thomas Haileday from St. Croix and for
£ale by
Pragers & Co.
J" ] y *9- dms
-ilpr For Sale,
I," By Ifiiac Mofcs and Co.
ns 37 Casks & a half of RICE,
Low for Cath er a (hort credit, alio
ie 585 Salted, prime winter Hides
le Enquire at Mr, Sears' Tavern, North Second Sfa
er No. 59. July, 19. M;?t
■PROPOSALS
FOR CARRYING THE
Mails of the United States,
[n ° n the following routes, will be received «by ihe Poftmaflb
At Savannah, until the ftrll diy ol icpiciwbcr next.
1. From Savannah by Sunbury to Newport iJcidgc, ont: J
week.
Receive the Mail atSnvannah every Saturday by Q A M, ar*
, rive at Sunbury by 6 P M, and at Newport Bridge on Sun
day by 10 AMs Returning. Leave New port ijridg-oi Sun|
*»ay by 3 P M, aad arrive at Sunbury in the evening, and at
a > Savannah on Monday by 5 P \l.
,C ' «■ From Newport Rridgeby Darien and Brunfsvick, to St.
n* oncc in tivo weeks*
Re/eive the Mail at Newport Bridge every othei Sunday
noo/, and arrive at St. Mary's the next VVed«elda» by j P M.
r ™ urH '"S- , Leave St. Mary's the next day, Thursday by 8 A
Ift ',?* arri y* at Newport Bridge the next Sjnday by to AM,
;! . Notc I t"" ,ero J route, arc allcedbyh-.o during the cm*
N- miiuncc cj the Lonlraas y the Contratlor is td oijerve fcck alterations
Ir. in carrying the m*it, and his pa\ :r to be encrtaftd or dimi lulled, in
ie , to tht I,fiance » r dimmed h, fudi alte.jtio:
w /in 1 e Contracts are to be in operation on MP firjt day ef
Oc.oberncxt, andto continue for ,four years until the "iOth SeUan
— oer, xßoo, inclufii e. ° r
Note 3. I htPojl Mafler General may alter the times ol arrival
and departure at any time during the continuance of the Contrails, he
a-, prewiujly flipulating an adequatecovpenfatim /or any extra exbenfe
on that may be occajioncd thereby, '
„ NOt< i l" "Homed for owning axdekfin,
or the matl at alt ojites zvherc no particular time is fpeci/iec/.
, k . No i c i- for every hour's delay (tn avoidable accidents excepted)
dl: 'i rr/ aJt v':, e »■ °»y oJmI
' P Mat me dollar And if the delay continue until tie debart
y "" 7my T' 1 ' wherti y " ,c !°r such de.
t.^dXj2T^. the forfeit tin dot,or,
JOSEPH HABERSHAM*
»ng Poft-Maltcr General.
• a General Post Office,
lat Philadelphia. June 28. , 7Q 6. , lw6w
Urbanna Mill Seats
c ITU ate in Cecil county, Maryland, on the bank, .
. , river Sufquehanna, about one mile abeve tide wa
;ng ter, and commanding; the water of that important river
vlli ? C r ! n c amg . th<: trade of which omes f 0 near"
t0 , 1 H Mil " T ? !t con V e nient to speak the tsc
' t0 Iji T ? fituatedas to receive thc.m along their
tal, walls. and by w -cr hftstake in theircargoes. S
There is a power fufficient for many and anv nf
a?" ufrful Water Works, and so iwuch may be iuftlv said ir t
,ef " f°j? lr "® ndatlo " of thls Seite as would bs incoHvcuicm t, f
ikes in^-rt a newspaper pnblication.
finlfh fe 7 1 ? 0 may , l i efi , re to be c *ncerncd, willprfibablr
f Pr a °" viewing the (ituauoj,.
locales for any term of years mav A v»o'n a i*
§ catlon to thc fubferiber, living on thepremifes. "*
\ April ,0. CLEMENT HO L LTD AT.
taw 3m
the
if a
lich —
ita- PRINTED B Y JOHN FENT NO,
—No. iig~—
chesnut-street.
JPrjtc "Eight poiiari v-tr Absi-mb.}