'I S " ' ♦ ' l - | . , f ' •' »
ette of the Unites Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
' > • SATURDAY EVENING, AUGUST 27, 3796. £Pozwi« X.
Number 1238-] ■ 1 V n ~r~- "" T •
: ~ HfH.DF.RNKSSE. i. . , . •'"? Ar " ved '. FOR SAt$L
for Charter
T0 THE X'EST-INDIES,
® The Snow HOP*-, |-T t
JVEKJ— Capt. Rindge, now ready for a cargo, ]v[ercg
will «"? 1000 barr ,^ ls - , If " 0t - e ." g f!' he wil
in five day- will take freight tor
*. Boston and Portland. Som
" For terms apply to .. S"P
Samuel Breck, |utu Son
\ v Where may be had, Lm
; A qtmrrfSf Bopn DOtr, Ntot or a, En,
AUg. 2<4- • tr- Sill:
FOR SALE. Th,
The Brig PUNCH ' h
iew vessel, built, finjfliedl and fitted
«r appiy to r:
August ib, 1796. ,— T $ 10 V- Po ,
UNITED STATES, ? Sa>
Pennsylvania District, j Ap
tn pur fiance of a Writ to me directed frota the Hono«r
---\ able Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the DiAriA
Tnurt of the United States for the Pennfylvama Diftrnft,
Will be exposed to Public Sale, m P 1
At the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe, in the City of Pluladel-
J phia, on Monday, the 29th day of August, instant, at li
ThcSS L Op0p caHed the
Rebecca,
I ?11 and singular her tackle, appa
rel and Furniture, as the fame now are ; the fait! sloop
having been condemned, to pay Mai in"' wages, &c.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marfhah
Marlhal's Office, 19th August, 179 f- —
For Sale *or Charter,
I 'wWy BOSTON, H
' BURTHEN about aooo Bbls. of flour—fhe may be sent
to sea at a fraall expellee, her fails and rigging being In (
'cry good order—apply to The
James Campbell, or
I George Latimer. . Is
| April *9, _ L- y H
For Sale or Charter,
ij™"?— l THE fast-sailing ship
LIGHT-HORSE, —
LYING at M#ff. J. & R Wain's wharf,
hundred and seventy tons burthen, a stout, strong
vtflel, and well found. For terms apply to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
I ao"
I AV S-'t 1 £L— -\'
I , —- baie, j
Or for Charter to th&We/l-Indies, ~
I' •' Built,
Live Oak and Red Cedar, burthen.about 350 C bar-
CJ rels, now discharging at Latimer's wharf. ThisVel- JS,
ft fel is in excellent repair, well fouud and will bear a tho- (
rough examination, andas'foon as discharged will be tea-
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to ek
Tohn Vaughan. m!
3 u 'y» s . ——— ov
At South-ftreet.wharl,
"VTT"ILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft. August,
W by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and sloop bally,
from Port-au-Prince, , . ' th
300 Hhds. COFFEE, ya
70 Hhds. SUGAR. *
Jiljo, the cargo of the Sioedi/h brig Gujlaf Adolphe, ;
capt. Rcimfre, from Gibraltar, bs
ift and /.th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds. gi
Hazle Nuts in sacks tc
St. Ufces SALT, for sale by %■
PETER BLIGHT. la
j-ws, For Charter,
— The faid'brig ' "
j Gustaf Adolphe,
' '4 A, Swede, with a Mediterranean pass, r
A SCScliii «-? a ver y vessel, about 200 tons bur- 0
then. Aug. i8:~ §z W tOW R
For Sale, e
The SLOOP
Friendship,.
rjURTHEN 300 Barrels or 1400 t
£5 bufliels Coal, an excellent frame, r
Live Oak and Cedar, and well-found with cables, an
&c. fit for fea —now lying at Al>nond-llreet wnart, 1 ho
mas {"enrofe's. The terms will be made reasonable.
Aoply to the Owner, No. U» f°uth Front-street, next
door to Jonathan Penrofe, Efq - Aug. >9 I[e°4 —
FOR SALE, j
A Complete Font of Brewer, „ . ,
I7Ntirely new , and yet unopened. The weight of this
1, font is about 3" lb. It is from the Foundery of ;
Wilson 5c Sons, Glasgow, and will be,fold at coll & charges.
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chales. ,
Encjuire at the Otfice of the Gazette of the L nited
Stated, 119 Chefnut-ftreet. Aug. 19 §4 W
Wants Employment,
TN a genteel-family, resident in town or country, a 1
i French lady lately arrived in this city. Shchasre- ,
ce'ived a andean be well recommend
ed. She wishes to undertake the tuition of children, i
and will teach them to read, write, and speak the_ 1
Fcencii language, in a Ihort time, by principles fitnple.
but viry intelligible. She will also ins!ru<ft them in
history, ravthologie, &c. and will be careful in' paying
llriA attention tcr their morals ; her terms will be very
moderate. Apply at No. 15* Lombard-Street, Phi
ladelphia. Au£uft r °t
Prime St. Croix Sugar & Rum,
Landing at Cliffords Wharf, from on board the brig
Pra'gtrs, tspt. Thomas Watson—
And For Sale-by
Praters & co.
Aa3ul?i6. diot.
Wm. HOLDERNKSSH, |ntlei
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and 5000
the.East Indies, a well feleftcd assortment of Silk j<-. 0
Mercery, Linea Drapery and Haberdashery Goods; which An A
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on theloweffc terms ;
AMONGST WHICH ARK, Qjj
Some fine India muslins em'oroidered with ji(old and Giver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, afltEMulmul ditto
Do do d.» do Handkerchiefs
Some extrablack'taffeties,luteftringsand colored Persians Apr ;]
Batidano Handkerchiefs
ihort Naakegp | ~
English Mantyas of the firft quality
Damalk table linen and napkins, very fine -
Silk Hosiery, ail elegant adortmsnt _ >
Tbead and cotton do (
Umbrella* —green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth For i
French cambrics, very fine - Au »'
Irtfli Linens, do. &c. See. June 14 §
t For Sale,
r A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
±\ flreet, between Front and Second streets, in which
'' Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on bufmefs. A
PofTeflion will be given in one month, or footer. of Mav
For terms apply to , WILLIAM BELL, or aiice ol
HECTOR CALBRAITH. pole.—
.... & all cam
' A P nI 41 " r S kept by
; ■ FOR SALE, SSI
j WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, For sn ,
' in pipes and hogsheads , '
Chret, gennin« old, in cases
2 Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates ,
Balket Salt, in hngfheads
Shot. Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Ear Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Rullia, in barrels
a " Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas,
J P Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by
P THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND-
Inly tp I—-
ELEPHANT.
this Animal is to be seen in High-Street, between
1 the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street.
HE will positively leave Philadelphia thc-tenth of Sep- p Qr gn|
tember, for Baltimore, in his way to Clurlelton,
where he will winder. „
ADMIFTANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar TtK
for Children. oiticc f H'o"'
The PANORAMA, or the VIEW of the CITIES oi 0 f Sep
LONDON and WESTMINSTER, Carria
Is to be tilt the. loth of Scptbmber, and the sub- oi Ph.
; jest will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE- fount
IH A """ for the PANORAMA, leffed
One quarter of a Dpllar.
, August 3- _? - TO
f> French Goods.
,n 'g Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-de-
Grace, qu»,rs
20 Trunks "> T al jies' SHOES of all colors forts and sizes a' the
J I Cafe j iucli 1
1 Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS
I Ditto Fine LAWN
IE _ Biu..tift (w-wwiiit _ —18-. ifei at
I Ditto Ladies'beft lhammy and GreiiobletJ roves Cff
For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KETLANQ. , PniU
AUg. 34
A very valuabi: Merchant Mill, r-p
"""" A DISTILLERY and BREWERY, and sundry STONE 1
V K e fx (QUARRIES to be let Reg
1 will rent my merchant Mill at the little Falls of Po- wb j (
tCa " towmac, for any term. not less thanfeven, nor more than 1
eleven years, from the firft day of September next. The
ir.ill-ftouf ' is 41 by 40 feet, three stories high, built with
§ stone, and has in it tluie pairs of French Burr Stones, two
— overshot 18 feet water-wheels, and Evans's machinery
complete, with every other thing proper and necelfary for
m. carrying on the bufmefs with dispatch, and at as little ex- mll
=?, ' penfc as pofiible, all in good order.—From the mill to my l
y ' landing 011 the Potomac river, (wherecraft, of any bur- L,cc
then may deliver grain and take in flour) it is about 40 aI T'
yards, and from thence by water to Geoi'ge-Town and b
the City of Washington, about 3, miles, and to Alexan- fto (
, , dria about 11 miles. This situation, aided by a fufficient last.
P ' capital, will command the produce of a very extensive
back country, where large quantities of wheat and other
"rain is annually made, the diilance to it being from 8 F
to 10 mile? let than to any raaiket town upon the navi- —
gation of the Potowmac. There are on the premises a p)
large stone Coopers' 01 Dp, a stone granary, and a commo
dious miller's house. At the landing aiorefaid a bridge
is now building over the Potomac, which is in great for
wardnels and probably will be finiihed the e'nfuing fall.
, There aie alio on the premises,. a Brewery and Dittille- |
pass ry, built with, stone, in them are three stills, two coppers A
bur- or boilers,'with every neceitary article, all ngw, and in | e
, w jrood order, and fufficiently large to carry on the Brew- f'' 1
ery and Distillery upon a very extensive plan. This prop- 1 e
erty 1 will rent for the fame term of years.
Upon my lands adjoining the premises, and along'the
banks of the river, where craft may lsa4 with ease aiid dil- * a
* patch, is an iaimenfe quantity of building and lounda- "
1400 tion-ftoF.es. Four quarries are now open, and as many *" le
rame more may be opened with ease : the stone taken from these er
ichors quarries is better, and has the preference at this market, "
Tho- to any other stone brought to it. I will reni these quarries IL
separately or together as may best suit. |
next On thc top of the hill, and about 260 yards from the ;
eo 4 mili, is a stone Dwelling-house, large enough for the ac- I^'
t commodation of a family: also, a kitchen, dairy, fmbke- j ?
houle, &e. and a garden, enclosed and in cultivation, the ®
foi of which is equal in goodness tojmy in this state. I •
r . • will also rent this property.
. f Adjoining to the Brewery and Distillery is a Smith's
A y 0 Jhop, in which is a compUte set of Blacksmith's tools, 0
urges, j a [j o rentj an d if agreekble I will hire to the ?
'nited tenant two negro blacksmiths, one of them is a complete
• , w workman.
LZ It 1 rent out the stone quarries, I will fell three crafts , »
which were built for the purpose of carrying stone : they
will altogether bring, upwards of 90 perch. Immediate
try, a poffeflion will be For terms apply to the fublcrib- _
las re- er in this towp.
mend- The Mill, Brewery and Distillery, with their appurten
ildren, ances, will be deliverod to the tenant or tenants in good T
ik the repair, and muftbe so returned, at the expiration of the
imole ' lease or Icafes,
en s ; n PHILIP RICHARD FENDALL.
3a yi n? lexandria, Aug. 16—a; W J
'l"y lobe fold,,
Phi! a- j
t d On Twelve Months' Credit,
If applied for immediately,
' br . One Hundred Thousand Dollars,
And one hundred aiid eights thousand acres of g'ood
LAND, ,
In the state of Virginia! Appl) to the Printer.
diot. Aug. 15* 5 '
, Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, ltiaffer from Li- (iQEp;
verpool, 10 COTT
5000 Rufhel. SALT ; .--i SOAL
ICO Cr<te OUgENSWARP, an 4
An Afloil. lie; _of SHIPGHANCLE«Y; BOST
FOR S A 1- E App
(Jo board, at 'me-ftreet tfltarr. Apply to
James Campbell, or Bmc
George Latimer.
April 19. ' f
Landing, w»
From on board the Schooner Expedition, 3' 00
St. Croix Rum&Sugar, 400
For Sale by F. COPPINGER,
Aug. 11 Front-street._ j am
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Flo
1 Notice is hereby Given,
I «"pHAT agreeably to an aft of Congrels of the United
JL plates of Amcrica, pailed at Philadelphia, the 28th day
of Ma-4 1796 ; laving duues on Carriages, tor the convey- *2.
ance of persons, and repealing the former a&s fpr that pur
pose.—That there.(hall be levied, collected and paid, upon 1 1
all carriages lor the conveyance of pewons, whi,ch shall be
kept by or for any person, for his or her own use, or to let
out to hire, or for the conveying of passengers* the several du- Frdm
tics and rates following, to wit. teTi
j For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon etfery Chariot, 12 dols.
uponeveiy Poll. Chariot, dols.-
upon every Post Chaise, 12 dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top, 9 dols
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work above,
with blinds, glallesor curtains, 9 dols.
opon four wheel carriages, having framed polls and
roj,i witblteel lprings, 6 dols.
i> U r <>.< tour'vhcel top Carnages, with wooden 01 iron j\]
grafc * * . ; W; . •• ; - ". fs
UpV® • icitrt with aols. t
upon chwies with tops, 3 doU. C
uponjhaiis with tops, 3 dols. Vj
upon fuKvies with tops, 3 dols. gf
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols. „ ,
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or iron fpnngs, •
3 dols. op
'* For and upon »H other two wheel carnages, 2 dols. .or
I I u pon every four whe»] carriage, having framed po.ts Ij
and topi, and reftiug upon wooden spars, e dols. Vv
,r The Collcflon of the Revenue qf the firft iurvey of the Q c
Diftriflof Pennfylvanij, v. ill attend daily, until the 30th day
as of September next, for Lhe purpose oi receiving ihe duties 011 g (
Carriages, at No. j 17, in Rece or Saff«fras street, in the City .
b- ol Philadelphia, at tlie houle of Dar.icl S. Clan , Kfa. in the
i- County of Montgomery; 2nd at the houfc of Abraham Du
bois, Esq. in the County of Bucks; of which all perlons pol
ieffed ol luch Carriages aie defued to take noiiee.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers i;i Wines, and foreign drftilled fpii i-
tuouciiquort, that licences will be granted to theta ; one li
cence'for carrying 011 the business of retailing of Wines, in a ft
less quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one
licence for carrying qi> the business of retailing Spirituous li
quors in less quantities than 20 gallons, at the fame time and
:3 at the fame places, by thc olßccrs legally authorized to grant
fuck ltcences. .WILLIAM NICHOLS, And
Infpeflor of the Revenue of the firft survey
of thc dillnft of Pennsylvania. V
— r " V o* ing
Philadelphia, 21ft July, ) . |rt tity
"taken OTICE, 5
, rpHAT application-wilfbe made for '.he renewal of C on
NE 1 t be following' certificates, iffuetTby Joseph Nourfe, '_J
Register Of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Gril'
Po " woid, Esq. of Norwich, Conneaicut—
ran ! ccftificnte, fix per cent domeflic (lock, Tso. 1.3,907 !
l ' he —dat.vl the 17th December, 1795. bearing intcreft from V 1
lth the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,59.7 65-100 dol
,vo 1 ditto, three per cent, domestic Itock, No. 10,682
er y —dated December 16, 1795, bearing interest from the W1
firft day of Janu-iry, 1791, l° r 994 30-100 dollars. for
CX I ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,166r dated the 17th get
December, 1795, bearing interest from thc firll Jann- ere
AO ary, 1801, .for 798 83-100 dollars.
anc j Said certificates are fuppofed»to have been loft or
can- ftblen in this city some tinje in December or January »<;■
.Ave hft ' JOSEPH THOMAS, M '
ther No. 59, North Front-street. th;
m 8 Philadelphia, July 11, 1796. d6w. tio
avi- — — — ~~Z Y~
« a Philadelphia, WeH-Cheler, Strajburgb,
Xe LancaHer, York and Frederkk-tewn ed
for- STAGES. ™
'""T'HE proprietsrs of the above Stages, return their b«ft fai
1 thanks to their friends and the public in general, for
* ' the encouragement received in this line of business, and beg
leave to inform the public, that they arc determined to run
,ew " their tlages through from Philadelphia to Lancaster m
' r<l P one" day, commencing on Tuesday, tne 14th July Infb.nt,
in the following manner,—via. A Stage will set out on
?7? that da- at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the house of
, George Weed, Market-street, Philadelphia, and run by Tf
" t he way of Weftcneller and Strafturgh, arrive in Lancaf-
T7 ter the fame evening, on Friday Iv.orning.tun to Wright's cc
•w ferry and exchange passengers with the York and predej- a )
r • j ick-town stage, return and arriyfi in Philadelphia' on Sat- al
aines urday, and 011 .Monday mornmg following, at 4 o'clock, l a
.. ! said stage will set out'from the said Gaorge Weed's, Phila- 'ft
" r thifphia; and arrive at Lancaster the fame evening, on d
16 ? C " ! Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out from the house n
, e " !of Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia a .
!' J the fame evening, and will commence again on ThOrfday 0
lC " morning following, and continue every week—The pricc v
•., for each paifenger from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three a
, s dollars and a half, to York, four doll-ars and threeqqua-t
too ' s ' terS) to Frederick town tight dollUrs, the like sums so* b
I s o'weight baggage, with the »fual allowance of 14 lb.
nplete grat ; s t<J " eac h paifenger, and 5 pencc a mi'e for all way ;
:rafts, 3°~§4w ,
they jona Reilly, 1
edi^ c George Weed. '
Jicrxo- & j
urtcn- Sales of India Goods. ]
good oi rgod f the flup Ganges, Tingey, from Cai
t"e cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF .
A Large and general'affortment of Bengal and Madras
SE A CO 1 TON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARK
A variety fine worked and plain Muslins,
Doreas, X&c. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
i.RS» |joxes and bags—and BLACK. PEPPER,
rood For Sale by
Willings Sff Francis,
No. il Pei.n Street.
5 ' June S
FOR S'ALE,
COFFEE, in (lV.ds. hbls.'& bigs")
COTTON, of Demerara, .ami v—- T -' *
SOAL-LEATHK" AMb,
BOSTON BEEF, and Mould and Dipt CANDLES.
Applv to ISAAC HARVEY, Jur..
No. j south Water-street.
B.mo. 10. _____ ■
"""" For sale by the fublcrjbers,
IN PtN»-STRF ; £T,"'
130 quarter Chcits frsto Hyton Tea.i
loa ditto' do. tiefil Souchong Tea ;
300 Boxes China, containing small tea setts of 4*
pieces;
400 pieces Bandanoes.
Willings & Francis.
January ,"?o - ■ 3taw.
INFORMATION
TS given daily of the drawing of «b<- WASHINGTON
1 LOTTERY, at the Office
No. 147 Chefnutjlrccl,
I between Fourth and Fifth'ftreets. Also,. where Tickets
' may yet be had. *»g- , .eo .
0- The Fourteenth and Fifteenth Days drawing «
a arrived. |
, e t Landing
• From on b®ard the Nancy, William Belcher, mas
ter, from Bourdeaux, a cargo, confitting of
360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET,
232 Cases of 24 bottles each, Claret,
286 do. of 24 do- WHITE WINE,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, aod
e i TRU&K of RIBBONS,
For Sale by
ld F. Coppinger.
>n .lyty 23" ■ —•—
• Nev;-England tvlHvi 1-n iIU3 s«
COUNTRY GIN in barrels,
JUNIPER BERRIES in Calks,
SPERMACETI, }
COMMON WHALE, and V OIL.
" ' TANNER'S )
SPERMACETI CANDLES,
.[ls Tallow Ditto, Mould and Dipt
Is. White SOAP, in Boxes '
;h ' Boil Boston BEEF, in barrels and half barrel*
la V CODFISH, in hhds,
°" Best Boston MACKREL, in barrels, and
V A few choice frnoaked SALMON, For Sale by
lhc • JOSEPH ANTHONY & £0.
jf' Also, a small invoice of well ailorted •
INDIA GOODS,
JUST ARRIVED.
J Aug. 23 ■ P°—
II a week iui!l be fuhm tted to public inJjbef?k)P>
The PROSPECTUS
and Of a New Periodical Work entitled
rain lbs United States Magazine,
And Rcpofitorv of Ufetul and Entertaining Knov
vey , ' ledge ; k
Which will be,conduced on a new, liberal,and intfreft-
Itig —e..ch number containing i" efu.es the usual quati*
tity of letter press, two npat erigravings, and* favourite
song set to music.—Price only one fourth of a doltar ; the
publication to commence on the ift of February 1797.
lof continued monthly.
irfe, August
3rif ' i ie fold by public sale,
' Wedriefday, the 7th day of September next, on
U the premises in Mount-Holly,Burlington county, by
j-i. the Subscriber', .
,682 Tbe Dwelling-house and Lot
1 the Whereon it ftar.ds, having been in part occupied as a store
5 for fever a 1 years past, and in a goodftand for bufiaefs,to
17th gether with the store-house, (table and buildings thereon
ami- ereAed, having two large cellars under them. Also, the
shop (roods and household furniture. A clear title will be
> or given to the purchaser on payment of the money or iuf
' ficLnt bond therefor, and possession of the premises will
be given in the said month of September.
The sale is to continue 'till the whole is disposed of.
Mount Holly having become rh« County Town, makes
this property more valuable than heretofore. Ihe condi
w - tions iilbe made known at the time and place of sale, by
—7- PETER SHIR AS.
-gb, N. B. All pcrfons indebted to the subscriber.are requeft
tj ed to dilcharge the lame immediately, as he intehds scon
to remove out of .this (late, Any perfen having a just de
mand againil th& fubferiber, it requcfled to produce the
rhtfl fame !cr settlement. H§»w
1, for I Mount Holly, Augufl. x 6, 1796.
0 run For Sale,
:er in a large elegant and well finished
Three-story Brick House,
ife of ' (The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
in by TT7TTH a X.OT ef GROUND thereunto belonging,
ancaf- \'V the weft fide of.,Third-flreet, near Unicn-ftreet •
-ight's | containing in front 32 feet, and in depth 100 feet, to an
redej- I alley .leading into Union-street. The house is 32 feetfront
1 Sat- and sc! feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
'clock, ' lai-o-e, commodious, and completely finifhed; the tyvofirfl:
Phila- stories are each. 13 feet .high; 'hereare 20 mahogany
lg, on doors in the house ; a geometrical staircase,. with mahoga
houfe jny r .ails and a g«od flcy-light. The kitchen is in the ccll
lelphia I ar) which isfpaciou6 and convenient, and finifhed With an
urfday j oven, slew-holes and pantries, a servants' hall and large
S pricc | wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an
s three area in which there is a pump. The yard is vaulted.
qvrar- j Communicating with the said building is a neat thrcc-ltory
,ms Co.\ [ brick house, on the north fide of Union-street, contaiii
-14 lb. 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; thelower part of which
|1 way j ; s at urefent occupied as a compting-houfe, and the upper
§4w p ar t divided into well-firii(hed large chambers. 1 his houie
1 may at a small expense be converted into a convenient
I dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the front
I and back have Venetian window-shutters. Adjoimngthe
last house, upon the lot belonging to the fir ft, are ereded
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good coach
hc«fe and flablcs finifhed equal (or nearly so) w.th any in.
u Cal-I c ; ty Ol ialot containing on Union street 3°'"'' Bn
in depth oil the waft fide of said alley s*f«t. There are
good cellars unde, the whole of the buildings, aiidawine
Madras j room p art of the Cable, with a hay-loft over the re ,
I niuindfr- For further particulars enquire of
— SONS .IX & Co.
iflins, rAt their No.
I CO
I 6th mpiAh 24th, 179 6 '
I \ Handsome, well-broke
5R * SADDLE HORSE,
;is, For Sals : enquire at the Cozeftago S:able s, '.he own
Street. I having no use for hisa. mfcfivv
| Aug. 2»KiCES CURRENT-
Philadelphia, Augutl 27. p
rEtt dUANTITV-DOLLARS XT 100 y
Dolls. Cts. a i
" AtJCHOnS, pr.B,. » ,3 «
-— A,: Z*txK:i. 11 - v "- rr f'f" rlh ' 2 n
r n,til> OH, Unfed, per gall- 1 3> W
4rrr.cl, * r ratio*,. -—ditto, per caje," 9 (
2Kk«, Shtvlitr.tr.-a. 10 Swel, b'ft, ■» t
, Ftittkes, 13 »'PPr' r lax K 10
common, X 60 ditto bajkets, II
-Comae, »>*s bttles, 7 '
Hmfcih.'ferttH, 80 Spermaciiiprgall I 06 f
Uriels, fur M. 7 Train,per bbl. IS y
Br ar, Jbip, per cwi. 6 Whale ,jer gal. 40 a
Sit/o, pilot 9SO P cri < r P" '"J l ' 7 • 3P 1
' Ditto, fmatt' -water .London, IjO •
<Vr keg, 9° ——American do. bott. I
B/er, American, in lot- ,nc " 1 • V
tie,, per dozen, lot- Pitch-, per HI. 4 u
ties included, I 60 Port, Burlington, per
Ditto, per barrel, 6 . barrel, 19 *» »°
Boards,CedarjerMfctt 30 19
3° * Carolina, 16 C
Mw England.jfiJa- Peas; Albany,, pr buffs. 93 t
- -mil, 26 Pepper, pert!,. 3« r
' Merchantablepine, 28 Pinrento,' 14
i/o. l 8 Raiftns, bess per leg XI
Mahogany,pr foot Ditto per jar, 6
The above are th /ha/lop Ditto per box 8 !:
prices, for the yard Rice, per c-wt. 5 V
price pr-ec, add idol- Rofm )>er barrel J S° fl
tar, $3 cents, pr M. Rum, Jamaica, pr £al. I 67
trim/lone in rolls, per Antigua I 54 *
cru t, 1 iS I iViudward I 40
Beef, Bofion, per ill.Il"al6 Barbados I *7 li
Country, ditto f- 4 Country, N. E. 97 e
Frejh'cwt. J" 8 Saltpetre, per c-wt. $0 g
Butler per lb. l 8 a JO Saffafras, per ton
in kegs 14 Sio '» 60
, Candles Sperm, per tb. 56 Steel, German, per lb. 14 v
—Englijh, lliji.pr c-wt. 1Z 24 j f,
■ Myrtle Wax iO —American, per ton 1,33 33 2
i Afou/i /a/W 18 to 19 —Cro-wleysipr faggot f
, Dipped IS finale root, per lb. 35
Cheefc, Englijb, per lb. 1% Soap, brown per lh. 12
Cbocotatf*" * V il
CmMWM 66 S< «" A ■ , 14 t
Cloves X 50 Snuff,pr doz bottles JO n
Cocoa, Per cwt. 18 Spermaceti refined pr li.
■ Coffee, per lb. »J '» I? Sfli/ e/o ' A . #»•
Coal, per bujbel, 30 54° 1, per yard, 33 b
topper as, per cut. 3 80t10n,N0.1,d0., 3°' t
Cordage, American, per _____ N0.1,d0. t
cwt. 16 a 18 Sigtar, lump, per li. 15
Cott™, per U. 33 I' 4° Loaf, Jingle "f 2 7
Currants 10 Siito double ditto
Dud, Russia, per piece, 15318 Havannah, -white 20 f
Jai/CTj II 50 Ditto brown 16 t
Dutch Sail Dud 14 —Mufcovadop.fiwt.ixiti 67 f
Feathers, per lb. 66 /»</«, /r.
//a*, ditto XX c-wt. 14 66
Flaxfccd, per bujlel X Sp. Turpentine pr gall. 66 E
Flour, Sup. per U. 10 50 i 11 a//«CT, />r 66
950 aIO —Liverpool 56 c
middlings, bell, 8 IO —C.;Ji* 60
——i- , 7»A'an 433 *66 t—LiJhn 63 .
A'tto 4 S3 i 66 Si// builfing IP, 0.
f-ufft'l- 3 J O4 4 frames per ton 11 67 i
Fujlic per ton, 15 D!tto Llvc 0ai > * 6 1
<?/«, Holland per cafe, '7 50 Do. Red Cedar prfoot -
D». I 93 Shingles 18 inches,pr
Glue, per lb. xi M. 4
Ginger,-whilerace,perevitl% Ditto 1 feet 9 14
jC',7/0, ccmmon 16 X>i'«o 3/«< 16 1
Ditto, ground 14 Staves, pipe pr 1000, 60 J
Ginseng, per li. 30 -white-oaihogshead 45 33 (
Gutpo-wder, cannon,per ——^Red-oak ditto 28
? r. 23 iftjfan 26 33
Ditto, fine glazed, 28 Barrd 30
Grain,Wb'atprbujhl.SCal Heading 44 , 1
Ry, 1 v Skins Otter, beHpr piece 3 33 i
__ Oats, 60 —Mints 26 1
—Indian Corn, 90 1 93 -—ft*, grey to <0 5 4
Barley, I 10 —Ditto red X 20
bejijbclleipr.lt. —Martini 50
1, 1 Bucl-wheat per —Fitcrs 5 7
75 3
Rams, pr.lb. *3 —Racoons 6e
Himt, imported, per 37
1 3®o —Beaver, per lb. 162
American, per lb. 10 —Deer, in hair 25 i 33
Herrings, per bbl. 6 Tar, N. f ess. H gall.
Hides, raw pr. lb. Sto 9 per bit.
Hops, 10 —Carolina, $lgal!. IJO
Hog/head hoops per M. Turpentine, per bbl. 320
Indigo, French per lb. 167 Tobacco, J. River beji
— Carolina, X ICO/tS. "J a %
Irons, fad pet ton 133 33 ~-P;tcrfhurg ba6 JO
Iron, castings per cwt. 4 3a 5
—Pennfylv.bar f caret Georgia 6a 7
120 4116 67 Carolina 4 a 5
Russia per ion 97 Tea Hyson, per li. Xto %
./>;£ 32 —Jim, '83
—Sheer, 224 33 —Svuekong, , I*ll3
iVaiV rods, 133 33 —Congo, .JO
Junk per c-wt. $ —Bohea, 35
Lard, bogs per lb'. 14 Tallow, refined, per lb. 14
Lead in pig!, per cut. J33 Tin, per box 16 50
m Mfj, Manilla, per lb. 10 a 24
awhile, 13 33 Verdigreafc, do. X
9 Vermillion, 1 50
Leather, foal per lh. 11 Varnish, per gallen,
Lignum viti£ per ton, 24 IVax, Bess, per lb. '33
Log-wood, 40 Wbale~bznc,long,pr lb. 12
Mace, per lb. 12 limine, Madeira pr p. 226
ATackarcl, beji per bbl li ——Lifoon, la 6
—feco'id quality 8 . ——' —Tcneriffe ,prgal. 80
Madder, beji per lb. IO Fay at, 67
Marble wrought pr foot 60 Port per pipe 150
Mast /"pars ditto 60 —■ —Do. in bott.pr doz
Molajjes,pp r gall. 56362 —Claret,perenji 4o/050
Mustard, pC lb. 46 ; Sherry, per gallon XSO
——flour, in bottles doz. X 20 ——Malaga, 84
pel dozen, I 20.
Valuable Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
A Soap and Candle Manufactory, standing in 1
convenient part of the city. The works are almost
new —or. an entire new conftruftion—built of the best
materials, and ready to set to work immediately.
Alfa,
acres of the firft quality of Land,
Lying on the Buchlnan and Big Sandy waters, state
of Virginia This trail of Land is highly recommend
ed by difintcrefted psrfons—-further proofs of it* good
ntfc may be had at the office. A proportion of the
amount of faleswillbe expeded in cafil—Mefirs. Mor
ris Bl Nicholfon's Notes will be received in payment of
the refiduc.
f.roo Land on Baldwin's creek, Cfc»ming |
townlhip, Tioga county, state of New-York. This
tract lies near the county Court-house,' was originallv
surveyed to Judge Piatt of New-York, and
as valuabje^proptrty.
Apply to FRAUNCES & VAN REED,
Brokers, No. 63 south 3d street.
Who discount approved Notes of hind at the ftiort
eft notice. Aug. 2s &«ta
' a. >
(OR THE GAZ£TT£ W)£ UNITED STATES. g
Public schools. ur
' No. VII. . , {a [
TT has been insinuated in the papers (hit the dm
•j K,,r sihfurd as i' is, there are lomc peiions
1 who'really do,' or pretend to believe in its exiilence. tnl
They fay these schools will be transformed into po- t.Ol
SS., i" which dodlrines w,llbe: .ncu ca- tab
tedon U,c vouvhful mind entirely subversive of all
those principles cn which the peace and J ° opt
civil society in the Un.ted States depend. That, ftrc
in the remote lettlements of th. state efpec.ally, eve
5 persons will probably Se employed as inftruftois eve
who are unfriendly to the government of «he umon pie
' and of the of thetv.ld theones of fra
3 levelifm and infubordinattar, who from an excess; of fan
zeal common to peliticalinnovators and enthu.iads, noi
. will exert themselves to maice proselytes to their a j
ophiions, and thus lay a foundation for infurrec- ler
tions and anarchy. Sc far am 1 f.om accecmg to fpi
the juffnefs of these th:>t the conie- ouj
quences to be expe&ed appear to me to'be diredtly to
5 the r.veife. Consult the hiltory of all partial infur- the
! reflions, and it will be found that the mass of peo- •
1 pie concerned in them, have been uninformed and tat
illiterate, and consequently proper machines in the tic
hands of a few crafty uuprinctpfcd demogogues to ,th<
vyoi k mifchief. Credulous, suspicious and ignorant, on :
5 flattery, llanders,and fallhood inflate their vanity, toi
, gratify their spleen and dupe their judgments, hai
5 This is the fiKeefsful routine of djforganizers, who Ai
' litft deceive and then- betray thof;, who for want of mc
education are always ready to relit the laws when- ou
ever their numbers inspire 'them with confidence of rat
fucctfs. It is general ignorance that renders go- jut
[ verr.ment precarious, life, liberty and property in- I -
1 fecurc. Public schools Ihould not be political the
! academies. The design is to place within reach of ap]
every citizen, even the poorefi. in the common- .en
, wealth, such an education for his children as may
; JxJjxza equal participate
'■ in the advantages of a advan- ann
[ tages cannot be Justly 0T duly appreciated by an ig- mi
> norant people, and consequently will never be priz- cei
ed or aflerted tby them. There is an impaflable fp
5 barrier between ignorance and knowledge wherever
3 \ they I —while an enlightened community voltin- ed
tarily supports the laws-—the obedience of the ig- ga
' norant is the work of compulsion. to
iti the commencement of the business of public to
3 schools a few simple objefts'will be'found fufficieut hi
to engage the whole attention of tke children— hi
' reading, writing and arithmetie wil! form a series
j of avocations that will allow of no spare time for K;
5 political lectures.
f> These will be the primary objedls in the infancy n{
® of the inftitation—and it is not hazarding much to
0 fay that if the plan" of public schools Ihould be
3 formed embracs a more complex system, thofc ; n
7 schools will never be eftablilhed, the whole business ] 0
will be airefted at the threshold, and be rendered jjj
abortive.
Altho'it is'my opinion public schools ought not w
j to be conSituted political, seminaries, yet in a Re- t ;
public i' would be the grofleft absurdity to sow the j,.
.feeds jof djfafiisAloa gov lit!- -
3 country in the minds of the rising generation. To ( j e
prevent so fatal an abtife of the wifeCt inftitation
3 ever projeded by the human unde/ltanding for the
preservation of freedom, cate must be taken that the t(
3 in(lru£lors (liall be in principle and conduct, friends c ;
to the constitution of the TJ. S. attached to this w
£ country in prefeiencc to all others. t )
E
7 ■' 0
e CONTINUATION OF ci
7 • • n
2 Foreign Intelligence.
FRANCE. I
° — h
0 COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED. 0
h
O 2 1 FttAIRIAL, JUNE g. n
The death of Ltfage of the Eure and Loire e
Was annouiTced. This melancholy intelligence was
3 received with much regret. ■ \h
3 Froger, Fhilippe Dslleville, and Dumolard, all it
Members of the Council, complained of having tl
: 4 been atrefted in the night by some officers of the h
;o police, who, notwithllauding their characters of S
National Representatives, carried them before the n
Central Committee, under a pretext that they were e
>0 Ex-Conventionalists, and fubjeft to the law of the i'
. ? 21 It Floreal. v p
[2 Montmayou said, that there exifte'd a Mandat a
d'amener (order to appear) againlt him ; that ths' v
measure was something more than mere contempt, si
6y it was a maafure of malevolence, and therefore he 1
jo moved, that the leals (hould be immediately put .
upon the regitteri of the central bureau. r
Dumolard moved, that the constitution (hould »
not be'departed from, and that information (hoold I
be obtained from the directory, of the measures that f
->• had been taken to repress the attack, and to prose r
cute the anthors. J
Taliien decbred, that for a month there had
a been mouchards ffpies) attached to the deputies,
oft a . tiiey penetrated into the mod private par- t
e ft ties of the deputies. He denounced as Roya'iiits i
and correspondents of the Princes, several principal 1
• chiefs of the police. He- added, «I f« w i th c
grie'i 'hat for the last ihree months a reaction has ]
>te been operating."
Ih" 1 W = tnuftnot brf surprised at this, since at the !
he r , P ohceisa Baron de Batz, and by the] t
tide oi that man, one DefTouville the agent of A- f
° f mar, who, under the reign of Terror, proscribed I
the Patriots. Since such men have pHfll-ffed.au- i
ng thorny, the energetic Republicans have been pro ;
b.. scribed. Every where, I fay, the reaSion is pre- i
"y paring, and— r -
I allien was here interrupted by the mod violent 1
agitation 1B the Council. A croud of membeu ]
lexpref.cd by loud cnei and geltures, the indignati
on which they felt at Taliien, and at, his accufati- I
onsagaicA the go vera meet, « a time wh.n muck t
VT,-nri Tjiin.Jtfrtfi Doulcet, .ar
fermentraion exn,.v. t . - • , ■ n
Cadroy,TisusTj&vnd L:v.baudeau, to the tn 1
bune and def.re «o be heard. Sever, p.her members D
surround Tallien, reproach hi*. with .us pa.t con- w
dua, and his eternal contradictions : in. lucuffive
attachments to all partus, and his raily .ng pom .
which he is endeavoring now to prefcnt to those
' whose leaders are under the hand of the law.
Tallien all this time remained tranquil in the
tribune, in the midit of alnlolt d.fapproba
tion and general tumult. At .ength filcnce was e -
tab!i(bed by the Prudent. r , , W
I Tallien in continuation—" 1 have declared my
• opinion ; 1 move myfelf that men who ™J o df
, ftroy the constitution be prosecuted. Tor the reft,
, every man has a right to date what he thinks of the
; events that are passing. If my advice docs not
i please, I ihall.be refuted ; with refpeft to myfelf, I th
t stall speak what I think in this tribune with the in
" fame courage that I have evinced "> circumftanc-j
, not'lefs perilous for the public weal. I know that
• a public man ought to despise calumny, and pre- £
. serve silence upon it ; but When he fees the puo it fh
» spirit enfeebled, and national liberty m danger,..he
■ ougflt to make an appeal to all patriots, and to lay an
• to them " Rally round those who have founded ov
- the Rjpublic;" ' ' A
- • It is at this moment in which an attack is rncdi-
I tated againlt the National Representation, and par
i ticularly againll the peifons of those who have had
) ,the pourage to brave-the dorms of the Revoluti
, on, of those who spoke when others held theii
, tongues ;of those men whose undisturbed courage
has braved and surmounted the united forces of
) Aridocracy, Royallfm and litis in this
f moment that opinions ought to be disclosed with- 1
- out being exposed to the charge of being a confpi
f rator, as was done by those who furrouoded me
• jtift r.pw. I leave the Tribune :o those men, and a
• I hope that in the midst of the reproaches which
1 they mij call upon me.—(Violent murmurs of dif
f approbation, prevented Tallien from finifhing his cc
• sentence.) _ "
He concluded in the following manner :
: " 1 support the motion of Dumolard, because I
am convinced that if the threads of the attack, com
- mitled upon the persons of our Colleagues, be tra- P
• ced out, we {hall discover a more dangerous con- P
: fpiracythan that from which we have juftefcaped.'' 1
r (Tallien,, fays the Eclair, feetned, as he deliver- !
- ed the foregoing speech, to be no longer the ele- J r
- gant husband of thc.handfome Cabarras. He came
to the Council on foot, contrary tq his ufugl cuf- c
c torn ; his dress was negligeut, his hair unpowdered,
t his air disturbed, his visage pale ; every thing about
- him concentrated the attention of the Council.) c
s Some voices tailed out for the,printing of'Tal- c
r Hen's speech. (Violent murmurs.)
Thibadeau.—" It belongs not to us .to pro
y nounce upon the intentions of the central Bureau— c
° whethet it was'guilty of simple contempt, or whe
|. e ther its conduit was the consequence of intrigue, c
,c imports us little to know at this moment. It be- j.
k longs to the Tribunal to examine and decide.—l.. ,
therefore fnppoit Dumolard's motion.
«' But the dignity of the Council requires that
)l we should not leave unanfvvered thofe'truly wvalo.
tionary declamations, wliich, I know not for what, t
' e have found a place in *? .oatufST The
time is j>a(t in whicli an audaeious falfhood repref
° 1 fed a timid truth. , £
n " What does Tallien pretend to by those abun- <
lc - daut reproaches and fabl£s which he has presented t
!e to you ? He' speaks of a re adtion, when the good
: ' 3 citizens have fcareely loft fight of those daggers
ls with which the Brigands threatened tbem ; when,
the plots oi the aecomplices of Robtfpierre and
Babceuf, every <day deltroyed, are every day te- 1
- oewed ; when they ate making every effort so save )
their Chiefs, wlio have been arrelted in their Com- ,
mittees of Revolt, and. with all their papers that t
attclt theii dreadful plot, and its imme-nfe ramifica
tions. The agents of these wretches are every
where ; every where are are they active; every
where do. they conspire to obtain the authority that
has been wrested from them, and yet we hear talk i
of a re-adtion. People think they fee it (n the :
hopea of the good citizens.—Their joy is even
made matter of accusation, and the intentions of <
the victims are calumniated by theeagernefs difplay
re ed to juftify Ae executioners.
as " Yes, we mult reveal it to all France; there
1 ihas been a re-adtion, it has been long and terrible •
ill it Hill lads, it menaces us with new llavery. It is
lg the work of that execrable fadtion, which, after
be having bathed itfelf in the torrents of the, blood of
of September, ib again found wherever a crime re
he mains tobe committed it is the fame faction that
re eredted its empire upon the dead bodies in the pri
he lons ; it is to retain that empire, that from that
> period it has never ecaied\ to precipitate all the
at movements of the revolution ; to have recorufe one
ha- while to inttigue, another while to maffiicre ; te
,t, flatter or oppress the people, to caress Or fucceffive
he ly to aKafiinate the different parties, ever indiffer
ut ent to the inilruments it makes use of, and the
means which it employs, provided that it preserves
ild its power; it js that fadtion which, on the 31ft of
'Id May, served to decimate ihe Convention. En
,at flnve us, No, No, the fadtion of September shall
f c . never euflave us." (A great number of Members,
No, No.)
ad The motion of Dumolard was adopted,
es, Rouyer.—■' lam charged by your commission
ar- to acquaint you, that this night the conspirators
il.s intended to ea.rry into execution the plots that you
pal had leen organized for several days past. Thev' had
rth circulated a report that the' two Councils and the
las Directory were about to quit P_r{, . an d t hey even
mentioned the day of their departure, and the ilace
:he of their retreat (Fontainbleau); but lam happy
•he, to fay that meafuresate taken to unmallc their dc
a Their place os-rallying was in. the Vert.
>Ed street ; it was from thence they were to disperse
ju- I into the diffeient fedtions. The signal was, "To
ro arms ! To arms! let ms (Ig\j the roguesVtnean
re- ing the Direaory and the Legislative Body.) ~20
or 25 persons, dressed in the habits of Reprefenta
cnt tives, were to animate the difaffeded, and to im
eit pose on the people.
iti- «« Their place of rallying i t now io the Faux-
S«. Antoine. There they expert the fee
,c of oraviUiera, FjifiHerre, and others, who
. m
ire to force other citizen's to march with *1 , *
The Committee, afiures you of the wifdorn uf'flT
Dire&ory, and the good disposition of jhe ' " '
who will soon restore tranquillity."
Ah ! ah ! exclaimed several members.
Philadelphia,
SATURDAY EVENING, August J 7 .
married] On Thursday last, by the R e . n:*
White, Mr. Richard Bavley to Mlfs Has/,, 0 ? "
Whitesides, both of this city. "
IMAGINATION.
If the following article (hould appear in a Fren h
nswfpapcr, and Aould chancc to escape the contempt of
the Eurepean public, it would be difficult to excuiv.
from the ridicule of the world :
..
* Paris, Augufl jo.
» Yesterday arrived at Havre the ithip Columbia, Cant
Cornplanter, from Philadelphia—ln her came paffeiio cr \
Citizen Paschal; from whom we are very happy t0 lear '
that the United States are by no means offefidcd ■
'having made treaties with the despots of Prussia, Spa n
and' Sardinia; aftd that our fears of their interference in
our projeded treaty ef amity and commerce with Algiers
is unfounded; for (jlitizen Ptfcha: allures us, that"the
American government do not confidcr the French repub. "
lie as. a colony of the United States." [Cel. Cwtirul.] '
COMMUNICATIONS. '
the tyrants of France, with Robefpierrt
at their head, were exercifipg their revolutionary
vengeance <>n the people «f that country, the •
fiiendsof Liberty and Humanity, not only in En.
rope but in America, united in execrating the mon*
fters who perpetrated those cruelties; and at the
fame time disapproved of that Cor.ftitution under
which such sanguinary scenes could be faniftioned.
A\ that time there were not warning those in this
country Who juflified under the pl?a of " imperi.
ous necessity," those infernal tranfa&ions, and rfiout
ed to the flcies what the 'real oMrjiti rif France ?
term the sanguinary code, the ConflTtution of '93.
Since the overthrow of the Jacobin faction, the 4.
proceedings of the Frcnch government have been
over almost without a single compliment on
1 the part of their former eulogists ; nay, so far from
this, the fall of Robespierre has been more than
indire&ly lamented, and the present Conftitutioa
has heen damned by the " firft praise" of our "ex.
clufive patriots."
The lats nefarious cotifpiracy against the Frcnch
' CdnftitutioTV, is reprefentcd as a bulinefe of vcrvin
confiderable importance, and the principal perfcni
concerned in it (though mem rs of the litoCou.
vention, eledled by tfte people) are reviled as men
of no influence or abilities. Si
How far this representation agrees with the ac
" counts published by the government of France, it
* is unneceflary to fay. Had the confpiratwS [tie
• ceeded, it is fairly iff be presumed that they would
have had a different character; our " tfxckifive pi.
triots" d 11bbed theni thefaviors of their
country.
' The present Conditution of Fianccis wttie Ja
-111. .tort. V, wfrfrt -tftc- fem»(i4*ivUoii of
> the United States is to oui's—their averfioa.
e • _
The Executive Directory of France-have tetra.
Ed the late conspiracy " a terrible plot." The
" " exclusive patriots" of the United States deny
this.
i
1
n s HEW A S—
j I don't care a cent what he was—l wish to knovr
what he is. T?eople like the Americans, who sfl'efi to
despise ancestry, ought not to use the past tepfe con
c c.ei ning charailer. What fignifies it, if Miss
'• was married to common sense ten years ago, I know
t that nvui the poor girl is a widow.
I_ [Ainner t Weekly Afufcum^
y - ii
y
it The drought in some parts of the Eastern (Utfi
k is so severe, that the pasturage is totally deftroved;
e and farmers are feeding their cattlc un hay. The
n firli crops were abundant, but the maize will be
if cut (hurt by the draught. ¥
r- [New Tori Paper..]
— —■ —
•e Publi/hed by T. STEPHENS, No. 60, South Secod
; r A'eet. J •, I
" The Group;
;r , Or, An ELEGANT REPRESENTATION
ILLUSTRATED.
Embeiliftied with a beautiful head of
at S. VERGES, C. 5".
i~ r publiiher thinks it a mark of refped, due to a
a t X liberal and enlightened public, to inform them that
K this is the Poem for the publjihing of which he hasbeco
»twice dragged from his house, and is nferyr laboring under
lc a vexatious prosecution. He is conscious that the piece
tc contains nothing cither criminal or offeufive, nnlefs on*
C- ginal wit, decorated in elegant language, ba criminal or
r . dlfgufting to the prevalent tafle ; and, a's he trufU that
neither of these is the cafe, he submits the work to
public with a full aifurance of its meeting with a favora
ts ble reception.
He would beg his prosecutors to call to mind (if they
n- have ever read it) the following apologue to a wfll k:i >wn
all romance—" A young painter, indulging a vein of plea
santry, Iketched a kind of Converfeiion Piect> refpe&ing a
3 bear, an owl, a monkey, and an ass; and to render ic '
more striking, humourous, and moral, distinguished eve
ry figure by some emblem of human life. Bruin was
exhibited in the garb and attitude of an ofd, Joothlefsy j
drunken soldier; the owl perched upon the handle ot a
,i! cofiee-pot, with Xpc«slacles on his nose, seemed to contem
pi: %£ a newspaper; and the ass ornamented with a huge
ad tye-wig (which, however, could not conceal his lor.g -
he ears) fat Jo r his pidlure to the monkey, who appeal td
cn with the implements of painting. Tfeis -
afforded some mirth, and met witii general approbation,
1 until some mischievous wag hinted tncV.hcle was a >am
? 7 poon upon an old officer, a phyftcitn, and a mernber o
Parliament *, an inlinuation which was no foomr circulat
rt- ed, than these pctpie began to be uiirmed, and cyfen to
r f c fancy themselves fignified by the several fy;;ures in
n piece. Ihe furious group it 11 ujscn the | ainter, ,viio ac
° clared that he had no deHgn to give offencf, or to c* a
n" r a eft erne particular persons. They affirmed, ibt refcmo.antt
20 mas to? palpable to be overlooitdj—-and taeir clanwu. s eirg
Ca- overheard by the public, the Capfain a-bear, tne
jjj. Dodlor an ?fs, and the Senator an owl, to their oyiiig
day." If a limilar fate Ihould attend the persons who
will, insist upon being the members tbi- group, tv? >
,x " public will do the the juftic -0 rcmcinber *
it is no fauk of bi»» , ,
ho Aujruft sti■- - borde
BY- THIS DAY's MAIL.
NORFOLK, June 20. l™ l e \
WEST-INDIA INTELLIGENCE, a
Received by the brig■ Abigail, Capt. Elliott, arrived w hem
here from St. Vincent's. that t
— Engli
St. VINCENT'S JuW 16. coafii
On Monday last orders- arrived here the turne'
Comttiander in Chief at Martinique, for the imme Or
diate removal of the Caraibs from this Island. in wit
In confequeufcws of the orders above dated, the ec j ( a[
Caraib chiefs v&i immediately required by Majsr J The :
Ceneral Hunter to attend him, and several were | t h e ir
accordiagtyefcorted into town yerterday by a party •£(
of troops ; when they were informed of the Island va g U ,
of Balhfeau being appropriated for their temporary that <
TeWStrre, in which fitbation fhey would be fnpplied t (, e a
with fufficient provisions and water'for their tubfift- Q f tl
ence, and in their ultimate removal, be furnilhed w^;c |
with every article that could either be necessary or jug ti
U feful for their existence. They were also forcibly 0 f t h,
given to underftatid by the General, that if they t { 9n
did not surrender by Tuesday morning, hostilities e< j.
would 'then inllantly commence against them. in th
saijvt riNCENT, difpo
PROCLAMATION. w hii,
Sy Hh Excellency James Seton,'Efq. Captain got ,
General and Governor in 'Chief, in and over bis w £tli
Msjejly's JJlands of St. Vincent, Dequia, and an o]
such other the IJlands commonly e tiled the Gretia- an( j
dines, as. lie to the Northward of Carriacou, Chan- retui
cellar, Ordinary, and Vice Admiral of the fume, £
He. &C. . of tl
WHEREAS there still exists a great demand R a b
for many articles of rhe growth produce, and ma- {^ac
nufa£ture of the United States of America, and of wou
the Southern Continent, and of the Islands in the certl
Weft-Indies under the dominion of foreign powers -]
in amity with Great-Britain (of which there is no Cha
prospect of receiving supplies in British bottoms) b ratl
1 have therefore thought it fit and expedient, by u s j!
and vyith the advic? and consent of his Majesty's by (
council, to issue this my Proclamatran, hereby per- rebe
mitting and allowing for the use of the inhabitants, pn'f
the free importation into this island, in any vessels
whatever belonging to the fufcje&s of any power or f or
date in amity with hjs majesty ; tar, turpen- fih j (
tine, masts, yards, bowsprits.slaves, heading, boards, w jj|
timber, shingles, and lumber of any fort ; live stock j ron
of all kinds, bread, biscuit; flour, pease, beans, po- , def
tatoes, wheat, rice, oats, barley, and grain of any jj )a ,
fort, such commodities refpeftively being the per
growth and production of any of thi territories
of the United States of America, or of the sou- be
them continent and islands in the Weft-Indus as
aforefaid, for the space of fix months from the date fur
hereof. , do[
And it is further permitted that sugar, molafks, sou
runl, coffee, and cocoa, be bartered for any of the ; f j
aforefaid commodities, and exported in such yefTeU
within the time limited. col
Given under my hand and seal at arms, at a ,
KingUown, this 19th day of July* m i
and the 36th . 0 / (
. soy aSceUency'* command, "j
I Jamei Seton, Sec'ry.
Cod save .the. King.
KINGSTOWN, My 23- f
On Saturday and Sunday last a considerable ntim- he
ber of Caraibs, exceeding 600, came from their
camp in the heights, and took position between our gr ;
ports and the sea, at about half a mile diftanc*.— £! r;
The chiefs and heads of families were dispatched to '- r
inform us, that in consequence of their being daily th;
harraffed by parties of the Rangers and other mi
troops, they wilhed to ,place themselves under our foi
' protcdion, until they could comply with the orders ou
of the commander in chief, which they all repeat- fci
cdly promised to do. On Monday, thefon of Cha- lal
toye, in the prcfence of Lieut. Col. Haffey and fe- ed
veral other officers,addrefled himfelf to the attendant di
Caraibs to the following efft£l. " It is 110 disgrace as
to us CaraiHs to fufrender to a great nation. The w
fubje&s of France and all great nations, even of at
England, are obliged to fubrnit to each other, cl
when there no longer remains the means of refill- al
ance. What else is now left for us ? Have we in
powet to continue the war ? No, we have not the w
powers —To-morrow morning I will set you the 11
example of fnbmifiion, by bringing my family to 1
Col. Haffey, that he may fend us immediately to
the General. You may do as you please, 1 can on- ii
ly be accountable for family and myfelf." a
Young Chatoye'sobfervation6 seemingly had the &
effect he pretended to defiie, and the Cataibs uni- e
verfally promised with the devouteft afTeverations, t!
to accompany him. But being too well acquainted i<
with their perfidy, not to entertain strong doubts f;
of their compliance with these promises, Col. Has C
fey on Tuesday morning, at 3 o'clock, oidered his a
carps under arms, and feit Captaiji Lauder with d
two companies to line the deep ravine to the north- p
ward of them j Capt. M.uriro, with two other com- n
panics, to line the ridge ta the fonth ward ; and the u
Col. himfelf, with a company qf Louvenftein's e
(wnich was attaehed to his corps) polled himfelf to
the yveftward of them ; the sea being to the eafl- 1
ward. Captain Lauder, when he had made the j
nccefTary arrangements, proceeded alone, topievent 1
alarm apd to persuade the Caraibs to resort imme- j
«3iately to Col. Haffey, but he found their number 1
very much reduced, for upwards of 300 had fled to t
tlieir retreat in the woode, and among the number ]
-was the orator Chatoye himfelf, and-all of those 1
who had been the moil liberal in their promises of '
fubmiflion. Capt. Munro in closing in with the 1
enemy's campy took 102 of them who were re- 1
treating towards Colonarie, who, with others that
w<#e that day made prisoners, amounted to 280.
These were the people who were on Wednesday
conduced to Calhaqua, and afterwards transported
to Ballifeau. .But instead of being voluntary cap
tives, it appears that they owe their present fitua
tton more to the judicious precautions that were
taken against them than to any regard for their
treaties cr promises of surrender.
'n< ate atylifhment of the promised surrender
*>( lh« Grand Sable Caraibs, v.as left to Lieut. La-
I
I borde of Major French's Rangers, who proceeded media
to Du Vallc's anJ Dufon's, with a party to efeort -*4-& a
them and the people of that diftri£t to Mount fufFet
Young, agreeable to their piomife on the preceed
ing evening ; but he found their houses abandoned, and tl
and about 200 of them armed on a hill, from were i
' whence their chiefs called to him and'affured him, fitting
that they would never surrender,. for the knew the day tl
Englilh.intended to deceive them. As our party 11
coniiftej only of 30 men, they very piudently re
'• turned to their poll. Oling
On Tuesday no&n also, Lieut. Mackenzie fell Dreai
in with a few othtr Caraibs, one of whom he kill- negro
; ed, anothergwas |taken, and three others escaped.
: The Rangers had then - dtftroyed about 1000 of
; I their huts.
< The accounts we have Tircc Tuesday, are very St. !
vague and cpntradidlory. It however, n ]
f that on Wednesday morning the greater part of
' the army marched in different directions in feareh '" ai
* of the enemy. Lieut. Col. Graham's d' v fio n ,
1 wjiich took the route of Colonarie river, after hav
r jng traversed it a great way up, fell in with a party
Y of the enemy on Thursday, who had taken 3 pofi-
Y ti»n at a strong pass or fall, which they had fortih
s ed. They invited him to advance, which the Cal.
in the fulleft confidence of their fineerity and good
difpo'lition did, followed by his party, holding 3 g t t
white handkerchief in his hand ; btR when he hfd
" got within a few yards of the enemy, he was saluted
,J with a heavy and well directed fire, which killed j
d an ofßcer ofSanteur's corps, wounded the Colonel,
■' and many others. Our party, after this accident,
.returned.
f > Lieut. Col. HafFeys Rangers fell in with acamp
of the enemy's about 4 miles from the Sea above
Rabaca, which they carried with some loss. Lieut.
J " Mackenzie is said ou this occasion to be mortally jy
wounded. The loss of the enemy could not be as-
ie certained.
re " The perfidious and artful condudl of young
10 Chatoye, will perhaps vety easily call up the remetn
s) brance (at least of every inhabitant of this colony) q
of the limilar mode of deceitful elocution, exercifet) ,j t( .
' s by his countrymen at the commencement of their
:r " rebellion : when they so strongly teftilied theirfur
!8 ' prise at our fufpieion of their fidelit", and x airurcd .
: ' s us, in the most solemn mannei, that their gratitude
or for our forgivenefs and kiadnefs, rendered it imffcf- j
n " fible for them to adopt views at once so iticonfiltent j^j a
5 ' with their own interests and out tranquility, and NAI
c k immediately afterwards sealed their faith, by mur
lo* der, plunder, and devaltation. It is to be hoped, £Q
"y that the present instances of their iniincerity ansi
J ie perfidy, will impress those more deeply with their
,es former atrocities, who had not the unhappirtefs to (
>u " be witness of them. That they (houlri again at.
as tempt to use the -fame modes of deception is not ,) el!
3te surprising, when _we know they ha/e so often a- Q f
, dopted them with success. Now, if it should tie ~y
- 8 ' found necessary to lift the sword of the destroyer, it
is happy for us that we are so well juftihed in the
eyes of the world, by having done every thing that
could- pofflbly be done to avoid it ; and through we
at have been led to complain of this lenity to our ene- Q f
mice, we eiK-em it a happy circumftancc, since the
- order of their expulsion has come at lalt frors the g] (
man, so muchdiitinguiflied for his tenderness and >4
!> tiumanity. bii
GRENADA, July 2.
On Monday a court of oyer and terminer, and ha
genetal jail delivery, was held at tlie Court-house M
im- here. _ . . !< -
lf j,. The lift of jurors being called over, and the bu
our grand jury sworn in, the chief justice addrefTed the
grand jury in a pathetir speech of conf/derable in
3to length, describing the distresses and misfortunes an
aily that have befallen this colony since the commence- th
,hcr meat of the infttrredtion, a copy of which, we are M
our sorry to fay,.we have it not in our power to gratify
tiers our readeis with; after which the prifouers de- T
cat- scribed in the aft of attainder pasTed by the Legif VS
latureof this island last year, and who were confin- b<
J fe. Ed in jail, were brought to the bar, in different of
dant diviftons, in number forty-nine, where they were
race asked by the Bench what reason they "had to plead
The why execution should not be pasTed ;
1 of at the fame time they were informed that if they
her, chose they should have Counsel afiigned them, and
efift- all of them requtfting Counsel, the Bench accord- g
r we ingly appointed the Hon. Thomas Turner Wife,
the who craving forty eight hours to prepare for enter- 5
the ing 011 their defence, the Couit allowed him until
ly to Tiiurfday mottling at nine o'clock for that purpose.
Iy to The Court being again met on Thursday morn- S
n on- ing, his Majesty's Solicitor.Geneiel opened the tri
al with great ability on the j».irt of the Crown,
dthe Mr, Wife proceeded on the defence of the prifoß
uni- ere, in a speech which did equal justice to them and
ions, the laws of the country ; but their petfqns being J
inted identified by the witnefles who were called to the
jubts fatisfa&ion of the Court and the petty Jury ; the I
Has Chief Justice then addrefTed them in a most feeling 1
d his and pathetic manner, recommending them, to en
with deavour to make their peace with God, in whyfe
orth- prefencethey must very soon appear; he then pro
com- nounced the sentence usual .in cases of high treason, 1
d the upon the prisoners, after which the Court adjauin
lein's ed until this morning.
?lf to .Early yesterday morning a strong guard of his I
east- Majesty's troops, yart of the St. George's militia,
e the and Uie constables, attended at the jail, and a little ;
event hjfore nine o'clock conduced seven of tli-ofe mife- 1
mme- fablq wretches from thence to the place of execii
imbcr tion ob the parade, where they were launched into
led to eternity without (hewing the lmalleft ligns of re.-
lmber pentance j and after hanging until they were t!ead,_
those they were taken down and their heads cut off, his
fes of Honor the Lieutenant-Governor having been ple.i'f
h the ed to remit the remainder of the sentence.—The
re re- constables, with a guard of soldiers, went back to
s that jail, and soon after returwed with eight more, who
1 280. were all tied up and the mallet lifted to knock off
refday the drop board, when Mr. Oliver, one of the tram
sorted ber, addrefTed the furronnding fpe&Sfcars, in a
y cap- speech, the substance of which we forbear mention
fitua ing, as no doubt it will be the fuhjeft of public ir.-
were veftigation, but in consequence of which an appli
their cation was immediately made to the Governor tor
a respite foi Oliver, which was granted for the
render space of forty-eight hours, he was then taken down
t. La- and conduced bask to jail, and the reft were im-
. mediately exetuted. Tisii ftTpite fias been enlarg- Cap?,
■*" —oi only to him, but to al! those vondemaed tn fionj St
fufFei deatluuntiTSatwday ihe gth inft. failed si
Th; Court m*t at nine a'elock this morning, on the i
and there being little buGnefs before it, the juries joined b
were difchareed at noon, but the bench continued and proi
fitting until half past ohV, adjourned to Tuef- Chriftop
day the 12th. t:fh frig:
The names of those hung are as ♦oliow— La Penl
De Suze, Pascal Mandcl, Pierre Guadalc
Olingre, Battarell, Charpentier, Clozier d'Ajcuil,
; Dreaux, Centimel (a mulatto) and Hippolite
degro) Mataufte, Boudbn, and Barbaroux. >*cee, t
The following thirteen whites and two mulattoes vercly (1
" were executed on the 9th July— mas.
Louis Frahcois Bontems, Gtiillaume, Boncaud,. Anot
St. Marie Clozier, Louis Delifle, Gerbert Du- The
' mont, L. M. Ladonceau, Bernard Labaftide, Pie Thomas
L ne Lafcat, Joseph Ralph, Marc Sibitiet, Piene cargo ol
, Villard, Alexandre Delabaille, Jean Forteau. tender c
Edmund Rapier, Charles Forgerie, Tortola
tefldti^-
FAYETTEVILLE, August 13, () f f w iv
We announce with pleasure the re-ele&ion of the f a Q .
hon. B. Grove, to represent the division of Fay- c j erSj w
etteville in the ensuing Congress,' by a very great ca ptain
J majority of the fuffrages in the counties eompofiag f rgm si,
the division. J to keep
State of the polls for a member of Congres, for neccfTai
Fayetteville Division. I cannon
IV. & Grove. D' M'Farlan. | ammun
1 Richmond county, 890 227 ti(h col
' Anfon county, 701 1 I Hope':
' CurtiberlansTdo. 640 21 3 j might
Moore do. 358 under
f Robefon do. 361 3® 1 can (hi
* — intoSl
2,050 1,068 1
J Majority for W. B. Grove. 1,882 I Brig I
& Philadelphia, August 27. '
A — I Thi
On the 4th and sth inft. eleflions throughout 1 KntH ,
: . b the state of NOl th-Carolina were held for Members I pnvati
ir of Congress. We have heard the result of Diftri£t I Ari
'* No. 9, for which Mr. Thomas Blount was ele&ed I Dexte
f by a majority ok more than two to ohe. J rinam
Married lall evening by the Rev. Dpftor Samuel j
nt Magaw. Mr. Robert Gili.es?ie, to Miss Han-I
nah Estey, both of this city. I Brig 1
d > CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES. I?r
»« In SENATE, Jilhe \JI, 1796. I F
\ lr On moiioi by Mr. Mart in, that it be j
to fl R e f o ] v ed, That the han. William Blount and j r 0 f C p
lN William Cocke, efqtiires, who have produced ere-I g ue j
lot dentials of being duly elected Senators for the (late J a^ou(
of Tenngffee, be admitted to take the oath necelfa- I j n f ()r|
k e ry fcjr their v qualitication, and their teats according-1 ,
he K , - v flood
ne It was in the negative, jeas 10,1 j^ oa _
,flt Nays 11. _ I hove
we The yeas and nays being required by one fifth I at j s
le ' of the Senators present, . I p
Tfiofe who voted in the affirmative, are Mr I , y
Blaodworth, Mr. Brown, Mr. Burr, Mr. Butler, I y
Mr., Mr. Langdon, Mr. Martin, Mr. 11 o I
binfon, Mr. Tattnall, and Mr. Tazewell. • j £cr j.
Those who voted in the negative, are Mr. Bing ,1
tnd ham, Mr. Bradford, M l '- Foster, Mr Latime', I as
uft Mr. Livermore, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Potts, Mr. I
Read, Mr. Rofs, Mr. Rutherford, and Mr. Turn-1
the bull, so the motion was 1011,
the The reaibn given by the Members who debated I
ible in the negative, was, that- the credentials of Willi-1
nes am Blount and William Cocke, bore date prior to I Brig
ice- the a& of Congress, which admitted Tenneflee, a I &
are Member of the Union. I .
tify At a General Assembly held for tha date o f | m j
de Tenne(fee, lince the above refelution was passed ; J east
gif. William Blount and William Cocke haVe again I pan
ifin- been elected, to represent that state, in the Senate I bou
rent of the United States. joft^
vere —bbbii»ii» ■■ | „
, . «ait
leao GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STJTES MARINE LIST. I J, OU
ed ; —j
■hey PHILADELPHIA, August ij. Jul;
ar ' d ARRIVED. " p
ord " Snow Eliza, l<yan, Havannah 17 ov '
Cleopatra, Chriflie, St. Jago de Cuba iz
iter- Brig Active, Williams, Di:to 17 J'
jntil Malabai,. Mitchell, Port-au-Prmce 31 -
,of e . Sally & Berfey, Rofs, Jeremie 15
10rn . Schooner Sally, Jones, Aux Lay«s 19
. • Minerva, Andaulle, P®rt-au- rince 15
■ Sloop Supply, Stubbs, St. Bartholomews 18
3W "' Maria, King, New-York 3
ifoß. Triton, Gibhs, North-Carolina 7 r=
i and CLEARED.
ieing Ship Oneida, Sheffield, New-York
the Catharine, Farraday, Retterdam
■ the Brig Amiable Creole, M'Keever, Port-au-Prnice» Nq
eling Schooner Harmony, White, Currituck
g Peegy, tynes, Porto Rico
> en - Lucretia, . Hnbbs, Portland FR
,h « fe Nancy, James, Norfolk , Co
P ro Ship Star, Vantieman, 80 days from London, is ar- fgji
afon, rived at the Fort. _ bii
sum- The (hip Richmond, from Surinam for this porf,
and the (hip John of Philadelphia, from Surinam wi
,f his for Amsterdam, are taker, by a Brilifh frigate and d.i
ilitia, carried into Martinique. The Richmend and car
little go are insured in this c»ty, to the amoimt of 90,000 m j
mife- dollais. _
xecu Copy of a lejter from Capt. Smith, of the (tup
1 into Harmony, to his owner in this Ci; y.
>f On board the (hip Harmony, Aug. 8, 1796. _
t;«ad, Bear Sir, .
F, his' lam sorry to inform you, that on the 6th of this
pWf instant, I was brought to and boarded by the Bn
-The tifh (hip La Raifon, Capt. Beresford, and after a
ick to detention of fix hours, they put an officer and crew
, who on board and ordered rre for Halifax. They ni
k olf examined my papers, ana broke open all the letters
i num- On my arrival at- Halifax I (hall cond.ua myfetTin
in a every refpedt for your interest, as lam fenfib ei
ntion- kave no plea againlt either (hip or cargo, it bemj,
ilic ir.- all American property, as 1 can prove, I (ha enu,
appli- a regular protest againlt-their proceedings.
:: ; h °l 1 am ' & robert smith
i down c 3* The Harmony was laden entirely with cotiee,
:re im- < and bound to Amsterdam. '
1
[ Capt.Charoock, in the brig Lavioia, 12 days
fiom St. Chriltopher's informs, that a large fleet
failed from that island with a very ftrorg o>r»oy,
on the 27th ult. bound for Engjand ; they were
, joined by a number of merchantmen at Tortola,
and proseeded for Europe on the Ift ifift. At St.
Christopher's Capt. Charnock saw I/Aimable Bri
tish frigate of 32 guns, that had been engaged with
La Penfee a French frigate of 44 »■•--
Guadeloupe : thev f-s 1 -. *»*' K la(T f> v '' he ;'
Britift. frigate attempting to board, which the
French frigate avoided by (heerißg off a (hort dii»
Taase, the a£iion ended, both the (hips beinjj fe
i vercly (flattered. -L&-P*afe? went into St. Tho
mßS' . t
, Another frigste is crmfiflg out of Gualaloupc.
- . The fhip'Hope of this port is arrived at
Thomas On her' passage a
: cargo of wine and brainy, (he was chafed by the
tesdsr of the Bull Dog Britilh sloop of war, off
Tortola; ss tii* ££upst continued hetxowrfe, the
tend«r—talked under her quarter, 2nd began a firing
of swivels fleet s her to fhortcA
e fail; the Hope being armed with two four poun
" ders, which Hie has carried for several voyages, the
* captain spoke the cutter, and desired them to desist
£ from firing; at an American vessel, and warned them
to keep off, which being disregarded, he found it
ir neeeffary to aft on the defenfive, and pointing hi®
cannon over the ftern,he made so liberal a use of his
»• ammunition, that the tender's crew struck the Bri
-7 tifh colors and called for quarters ; whereupon the
I Hope's crew gave three cheers, and told them they
3 might depart. At this time the sloop of war got
16 under way from Tortola and purfupd the Ameri-
II can (hip, but ifie very fortunately made her escape
~ into Thomas.
•8 Arrivals at Norfolk —Augujl 20.
' 2 Brig Democrat, Chapman, Jamaica
■ - Bell, Jeffery, Cape-Nichola-Molc
Schooner Swallow, Moore, do. ,
Providence, August 20.
The sloop Joanna, Hunt, and sloop Sally, Smith*
lit Utk of iW poit, have been taken by a_ French
:rs privateer, and carried into Leogane far trial
& Arrived yeflerday, (hip General Washington,
B< l Dexter, and (hip Mary, Jaekfon, both from Su
rinam ; biig Dolphin, Brown, Turks-Island.
PORT of BALTIMORE,
August 25.
N " ENTERED.
Brig Charlotse, Steer, ' Madeira
Snow General, Wrangle, St. Übes
' ' Sloop Union, Bryce, Bollon
Federal George, Arnold,' do.
The Ship Euplnafia, De Butts ; Snow John &
nd Joseph Clark j Brigs Rover, Smith, and Harmoey,
re " Buel ; went out of the capes early on Monday last,
®. te about 3 leagues to the Southward of the cspes our
(i * informaht saw three large (hips lying to, supposed
to be Englilh frigates, about t 2 o'clock one of them
flood iu,for the cape and went up to Hampton
10 ' Roads, another at tile fame time flood after the a
. bovemerttioned veflels, the third remained at hep
,ftl< ftatian.
The brig John, Stdry wns lying in Severn
I r on Monday last, botiftd to fca.
' ct ' The Thetis frigate hns not been into Hampton
Roads wi h an American prize as pablifhed in yes?
terday's Journal.
' The (hip Dolphin of Boilon from St. Croix,
rT' was spoke on Tuesday, a little below the mouth of
Potomak. bound to Baltimore.
UUl * Afquare rigged vessel was seen (landing in for
rhe Capes 011 Monday morning last.
ft 111- Arrivals at New York—Augujl 25.
ir to Brig Fox, Nichols, Jamaica a»
ee a Irig Hind, Hodges, fr»l* Calcutta, last from Salem.
Feb. 29, past the ship Rob-uft, of New-York, in the
f river Hogley, bound up to Calcutta.
£,° May 10, tpoke the British sloop of war Finks, to the
. ; east ward of the Cape of Good Hope. She had in com
>gal" pany with her the (hip Elizji, of Bofton.from Batavia
mate bound to H Hand. They captured her to the eafiward
of the Hie of France.
August 23, spoke the William and Mary, to the
«aftward of Nantucket shoals, of and from Norfolk,
ST * bound to Liverpool.
Brig Fox, capt. Nichols, 29 days from Jamaica.—
July 31, was boarded by two French privateers off
cape \ntonio, one a sloop, and theother a lchooner who
overhauled his papers a.,d difmifl'ed him politely.
17 August 3, law the Englilh fleet, 1at.43, 27, long.
1 21 83, about three hundred tail, under convoy Of a 74's>
\ l " j 64'!, 2 frigates and 2(loops of war
J 21 " Augult ji, capt. Nichols put into Havannah for
water The fame morning capt. N. fays three
! 19 French frigates went in search of the Engjifti fleet
j which failed from Jamaica Auuruft 21. Capt. Nichol*
! 3 loft one man overboard in a fqualh
1 7 — 11 ; .--r*... ■ M, =e
■York Brokers Office, and
- COMMISSION STORE.
Vmce* g gouth Third street.opposite the national new Bank.
"d OAMUEL MFR iUNCIS.and JOHN VAN REED,
> Rico j Jave eßtefe d into co partnership, under the firm of
rtland : & VAN RF.ED.in the business of Brokers,
Orfolk ! Conveyancers and Commifiion merchants. They buy and
is ar- j f e n on'commiflion every species of flock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
i port", Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all
rioam writings in the I'V":
e and d.fpatch ; ißfultcd, and book, fettfcd, in the
, nioft correa manner. Coaftant attendance will be given,
d car- They solicit a fliare of the public favor; they are deter-.
0,000 ra i, lc d to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmolt secrecy observed.
/.• SAMUEL M. FRANNCES,
ie lnl P . JOHN VAN REED
- Philad. August 27. I?9 6 - m&wtf
90. — L
. . 7bis Day is Publified,
tT- 3 Bv WILLIAM COBBETT, opposite Cbrift
aftera Church,
dcrew Anew Drawing Book,
e y firt! From the Studies of the best Ma tiers.
letters Price 1 Dollar and 25 Cents.
y felf in to Drawing Mailer#,
>le they g eok Sel!c „ an( j Stationers. — ~
; being August 27: 5t
ill enter S —
ARISTOCRACY,
TH. An EPIC POEM,
1 coffee, In j Cantos, may W had at B. Dais's Bookstore- In.
68 High-ftre«t. A*g- 3*
Treasury of the United States. $
NOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums ,
o( the Funded Debt, or Stock, Baring a present i/itereji of fix
fer centum per annum. c€
iff, That pursuant to an Ad of Congress passed on the
18th day of April, T796, intitledan adk in addition to an ■
■— " An acl making further prevision for the
and for the redemption of the ,
public debt, reimburfedand ,
paid in manner following, to wit. " ~Flfclt, (lends 1
" to be made on the lad days of March, June and SepteH§r"
" ber for the present year, and from the year one.thoufend,, '
" icvtrt hundred and ninety-seven, to tie year one
* e - farid hundred & eighteen Hrdnfiye,at die. /ate ol
k< one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
Secondly, by dividend* to be made on the day ot
44 Decemb#r for the present year, and from the year one o
" *houiUifld-&v?n hundred and ninety-seven, to the .year
" one thousand eigfirhiindred and seventeen inclusive, at
u the r2te of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" filial capital; and by a dividend to be ftia !e the -
in the ytjar one thoufeifci-erght hun
drcd and eighteen, of such fumvas \vT4 be then acie
" quate, according to tKeTontra«sl, for the fitisT redemp
-44 tion of th* said flock."
2d. All diftindtioh between payments on account of
Xnterefi and Principal being thus aboliflied by the eftablifli
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abov« de
fci ibed, it has become neceflary to vary accerdingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
ercditors will therefore observe that the following form
iseftabfifhedfor all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that
I of in
,jjh. do make, confitute and appoint
of my true andlaivful At-
Urney, for me, and in my name, to receive the dividends ivbich are,
#r Jhall he payable actording to lam, on the (here describing the
stock) funding in my name in the books of (here defending the
books of the Treasury or the Commifiioner of Loans,
where the {lock is credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) ivitb peiver also an attorney or dttor
nies under him, for that purpose to make and fubjlitute, and to do all
foivful ufts requiftttffor effecting the premises, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that my said Attorney or hisfubfitute, Jhall lawful
iy do, by virtue hereof.
In IVitnefs hereof, I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal the
day ef —intbgyear. ,—;—-— -
Sealed and Delivered
in prefenc^pf,
BE IT KNOIVN, that on the day of
lefore me personally came
ivithin named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be
bis att and deed.
In tejlimony tvheretf I have hereunto set my Hand *nd affix
ed Seal fbe day and year left afortfaiJ.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to dire&ions
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
1 reafurer ef the United States.
July *J« TV & St 1 J.
Walhington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, from th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haroour,
The following is the SCHEME of No.!.
Viz •-X prize of so,coo dollars, ao,ooo
I ditt» io.coo 10,000
7 lad drawn 7 , ■
Tickets, each j *' 000 3 * oo °
6 ditto 1,000 6,c00
10 ditto 400 4,000
40 ditto 100 a,coo
55 ditto 50 2,750
5750 ditto 11 69,g08*
To be raised for the Canal, 26,150
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Commiflioners have taken the Securities re I
quired by the aforefaid aft for the punctual payment ol
the prizes.
The drawing of this I.ottery will commence, without
delay, soon as th» Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will begiven.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finilhed, shall be considered as relinquiftied for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed ) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL,a/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
WM. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of WafhingtoH, Feb. 11. ,5
W A jV T E B, .
An APPRENTICE to the Printing Bujinefs.
Enquire at this Ofiite. Aug. 19
Lands of the United States
Treasury Department, Augujl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN purluar.ee of an a£t of Congress, passed on the 18th
day of May, 1796, entitled " Am ait providing " for
thefale of the lands of the United States, in the Territp'
ry north weft of the river Ohio, and aboyc the mefith of
Kentucky river," that the feftions or lots of land descri
bed in the annexed schedule, lying in the seven ranges of
townlhips, which were surveyed in pursuance of an ordi
nance of Congress, passed on the twentieth day of May,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and efghty-five,
' will be exposed for sale at Public vendue, in the town ol
Pittsburgh is.Pennsylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
Ofiober next, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the ftnt-O-x o''December enfuiag, unless the said lots shall
be sooner fold, in tfie maitntt, nn c terms and con•
ditions herein after mentioned, to wit;
ill. The said fe£Uons or lots (hall be fold under the di
reSion ef the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter
ritory, and such person as the President of the United
States rvlay specially appoint for that purpose.
id. The said feitipns or lots shall be fold to the highest
bidder, but no sale can be made for less than two dollars
per acre of ths quantity of land contained in such iot or
leilion.
3. The highest bidder as before mentioned, must depo
sit at the time of sale, one twentieth part of thepurc'i.afe
money, in the hands of such person as the President of the
United States fha'.l appoint to attend the files for that pur
pose, which will be fcrfsited, if a moiety of thefumbid,
• including the said twentieth part, lhall not be paid witnin
thirtydavs from the time of sale.
. 4th, Upon payment of a moiety of the porchafe money
in the manner before mentioned, the r"— k -®=r will be
entitled to one "7 - the remaining moiety ;
—ti receive, from the Governor sr Secretary of the
Wcftern Territory, and the person who (hall be appointed
• by the President of the United States, to direct the sales.a
certificate describing the lot or 1.-fiion purchased and d'e
elating thefnm paid onaccount, the balance rJmaininir due
the time when luch balance becomes payable, and that'
the whoJ« land therein mentioned, will be foi/eited if the
said balarce is,not then paid ; but if th^aUr^aß^-fivill
be duly difcharged,by paying thifa-M to tile fr., urer <.
the United States, the purchaser or his aflignce or otlu
!e<T;il rcprefentative, ftiall be patent tor
fr.?d lands, on his producing of State a re
ceipt for such balance endorsed upon the certificate.
V any purchaser shall of ths whole of he
purchase money, at>rl£ne when the payment of the j
firft moiety is to b • made, he will be entitled to a
per centum on the part for wh.ch a ere-
.lit isaut!i6vized tobi given; and his patent H:all be im
.medi*f:*>' I'lued. . . de(
Sfven under my hand at Philadelphia, the day and
rear above mentioned.
' OLIVER WOLCOTT, "V
Secretary ©f the Treasury
Schedule of feßions of toivnfhips, or fractional parts ( ] a
of to wn/hips, to be fold at Piitfburgb, in ptirfuar.ee ur
of the '6th fcflion of an a(J of Congress, pajfed on qt
the 18th day of May, 1796.
la i i
■s l| I I § qi
£ 1 s| g B'-ss r " 1
ift Rangs. 6thTown(hip. 6th Range. g t
ift Town(hip. fiaia 64ojeacb iftTownfhip. m
28 5 (55 14 6401 ,17 3 20 th
29 256 95 *7320 640 each 112 270
30 250 75 25336 640 each ,21 850 ni
34 240 90 BthTownJhip. 22 166 40 bi
35a36 640 each 3ai4 64oeach 23 427 at
2d Townlhip. 17 a2O 640 eacTi 24 640
19 140 23 640 27 151 80
10 170 70 15330 64oeach 28a3o:64oeach b '
21 185 33336 64o)each 33 158 11
22 230 iothTownlhip. 34a361640|each P'
25 488 80 iai (640 each 2d Township.
2632764© each 5 ai4'64o esch 1 126
28 560 17a20[640 each 2 440
29 551 60 233361640 each 3 448 e .
30 564 nthiTowndiip. 4 456
31-36 640 each 1314646 each 5 464 t ;
4thTownlhip. 17320 6 472 b<
19 64 23336)640 each 7 340 ce
2 -5 640 . s i R Sau^o" l * g.
a 6 387 60 n,-' 17a20 640 each
--if- 36 ; 7T flnp ' i3a-,6 640 each \
31332 640 each 6 * S° 3d f ovnfljlp.
33 616 '30 440 1 47 °
34 445 20 34 61c 1 478
3 / IS ° 35336 640 each 3 4SA
*tfh;n idTownfhip. 4 494 o
I sthTown(h,p. 2 i 6? 6 P 5 50i fu
? 3a6 640 each 5 10 ! th
12 479 30 J 4 7314640 each
17 304 15 ' * 17320 640 each
.18 63850 -> , *3336 640 each
23 450 75 12 stc sthTownfhip.
2 4 «4o ' 3 1 ,18 t
29 ' '^ 4 ~,,.1 t, 2 526 ra
17320 640 each ~
hi 23336 S4O each 3 ,34
11 111 3dTown(hip. 4 *
36 iai 4 640 each . ' t
ad Range. I7a2o64oeach
iftTownlhip. 640 each 73x4 / 4 ° pa^.
o . n • 640 .aCfl
28 720 s thTown(h.p 3 4 c each
34 ! 6| 50. iai464o each «,•„
3 dTowDlhip. (7320640' each
640 each 23a36 640 each 1 '
a 8 499 16 7thTownfhip. 1 '40
29 640 ia2 640 each 3 ,
31333640 each 537 640 each 4 5
4thTownlhip. 12313640 each '93
11 »6 40 iiaio6 4 oW)i — - , ,
12 397 50 25 640' 7314 640 each
A 13 51 50 30336640 each '732c6 4 ceach
15 27 50 9thTownfhip. ' 4 ° *
!6 259 20 i3i 4 |64de3cV 9'h Township.
17 524 17320 640 each 1 314 640 each
18 640 • 23336 640 each '7320 640 each
19 635 1 ithTownfhip. 23336 64oeach
20 584 80 iai 4 6 4 o|each " th Townfh,p.
21 636 21 17320 640 esch iai4 640j«ach
22a36 64c eash 23a36640 e3ch 1 7 a 2« 64oe3ch
sthTown(hip. i3thTown(hip. each
5 1314 640 each 13'fcTownMp.
6&7 04c ach 17420640 each ial 4|^4C
23a25 64c ach 23a36640each i7 a *cp4oeach
37ar8 64c each ,„ = a 36 e3ch
3233664 c 3ch IsthT°wnfh,P
-ythTownlhip. o ow P. 1314,640 esch
- 16401 1 274 40 i732o|64o;each
BthTownihip; 22 87 -5° 23 336 64o,each
135 640 each 23 427 50 7 th Range.
6 1 26 70 rft Township.
7a 14 640 cad- ; i 4120
17320 640 each 7 W2O 36 |x J,O
23336 64oeach " 4 , idTowisftiip. *
9 6 hi 64o n ' ,P ' $If " 4 625
S22:S * '?»»'u"'j c,ch
23336 640 e3ch 3 400 i;3iS 640 each
3d Range. 5 45 6 14
2d Township. 6 464 80 20 ,
15 640 7 250 23324 640 each
1 16 6co 8 618 ? 5
20 55750 9314 640e3th 2 l 3 i 4 °l
' 21322 640 each 17320 640 each 4 owfalrup.
23 609 23336 64clcach 13141640 each
f 25336 640 each 4th lownlhip. 1 732c|640ea(h
jd Town (hip. 1314640 each 23336 64c esch
9 188 60 17320 6 4 oeach
' *0 34'4 23336 64oe3ch la i4|64oeach
I 11 267 6thTownfhip. i 7320|640 each
F 12 152 1a 14 640|each 2 i a , 3 l 4 ° "
1 14 2C2 50 17a20 64c|each Bth 1 ownlhip.
1 15 630 23336 64c each 13i 4 640 esch
16218640 each BthTownlhip. 17110 640 each
J9 217 50 1 ai4|64c each 23336 64c each
20 616 75 1732 c 64c each 10 l ownlhip.
31a36 64oeach 23a36640e3ch 1314 64c each
ii 4thTownfhip. iothTownfhip. 17320,640 each
» 170 1314 140 each 2 3 a 3« 6 40|e3ch
2 544 1732 c 640 each) l4thTownfh 'P
s 3 320 23336 640 each! 1 3i4|54C|e2ch
r 4 45° i2thTownfhip.| * 7 a 2cJ64c each
_ 5- lie . ■■ 238j6]6^c|each
6 640 1732 c 640 eachl l4th 1 'ownfcip. "
c 7 23 336 640 each' 1 3i4,64o|eSch f
a 9 64c each |i4thTownlh:pJ J 7320 6 4 o|each
10 54c 80 iat 4 640 each! 2 3 a 3 6 6 4C each
11 529 70 1732064 c eachj 16thTownfhip.
12314640 each 23336 640.each- la l4 640 esch
;y ya2o64oe3ch I 17 a 20 640 e3ch
i*e 23336(640 cachj I 23336 640 eack
; NOTE.
* fe * ml '7"%* be
a Un ted States and a lso of thofc r the
■- gregate quantities in the several Z'tt- ~7 a C 3g "
e. parts of township,, have been al 7" ?1 07 £ s3^ onal
« vey ; the ? aua ' fur -
Lanbs of the UiiitfeJ ; s *
Treafiiry Department,
jfiigvfi S. 1796.
Public Notice is hereby given,
TN nurfuance of an ad of Corigrefs palled on the 18th
I los May, 1-96, entitled "an aft providing " for
thefale of thel.ands of theUmted States, in the.territory
north-weft of the river Ohio, and above " the mouth o
Kentucky river," that the Quarter Towsihips of land
deicribfd in Ae annexed schedule, lying in the leven rang
es of townlhip, which werelurveycdin pursuance of an
ordinance of Congrels, patted 011 the twentieth day of
T "av in the year one thousand fevsn huodre(|and eighty
five will be for sale at PUBLIC VENDUE, at
he Merchants' Coffee-Houfe >» Philadelphia, on the 4th
day of January next, and thenceforward from day to .ay,
until the'tenth day of February enfuihg, unlcfs the laid
quarter townfcips (hall be foonar fold, in the manner and .
,011 the terms and coHditions heremaftcr mtiuiOßcd : viz.
ift. The find quarter townships (hall be fold to the
hicheft bidder, but no sale can be madfrfor less than two
dollars per acre of the quantity of land contained in luch
wwi t;d( j er as before mentioned, mud de
nofit'a* the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur
chase money, in the hands of the Treafurerof the-United
States, which will be forfeited if a moiety of the fumbid,
including the said twentieth part, (hall notbs paid within
thirty days from the time of sale.
3d. Upon payment of a moiety of the purclrafe-mo
ney in »he manner UeforMnentioned, the purchaler will
be entitled to one year's credit for the remaining moiety ;
and (hall receive a certificate describing the quarter tovvn
' (hip purchased, and declaring the sum paid on account,
the balance remaining due, the time When such balance
becomes payable, and that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not then
paid ; but if the said balance (hall be duly discharged, by
paying the fame to the Trcafurer of the United States,
or his assignee or other legal reprcfentative,
(liall be entitled to a patent for the said land, 011 his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
endorsed upon the certificate: But if any purchaser (hall
make payment -of the whole of the purchase-money at the
time when the payment of the firft nioitty is dire&ed to
be made, he will be entitled to a deduction of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to be
given ; and his patent ffiall be immediately iiTucd.
GIVEN under my hand at Philadelphia, the day
' and year abovomentioned. ,
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Trcafury.
SCHEDU LE
Of Quarter-Townlhips to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
suance of the 6th fedtion of an ail of Congress passed on
the 18th day of May, 1796.
_ . —
•-
m to C 3
d. .£" £ s
Q> J2. hi >
hJJ r— *—-• C 3 Q
5 c § u. E-i
« ft 3 O
O
L_i M 5J <L>
V- rz re
O 1- V p v
U-. C
6 - r g, .£
Zos * »
2 O | 02
C- •
2 Soath East 5120
North East 5120
. South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480,
3 J South East 5120
Nu'ili j1 iu —; r
South Weft 5120
North Well 5120 t
20,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft j1 20
North Weft 5120
20,480
9 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft
5 120 II
20,480
it South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120 ,
North Weft 5 120
30,450
4 4 Seuth East 51:20
N;»rth East 5120
South Weft 5 120
North Weil 5120
'20,480
. 6 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Well 5120 j
30,480
S South East j 120
North East
South Weft 5 120 ' '
North Weft 5120
— 20,480
10 South Eall 5120
North East 5120
Sonth Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
12 Soijth East 5120
North East j 120
South Weft 5120.
Nortb Welt 5120
20,480
5 3 .South East 4602
North East 4654 j
South Weft 5120'
North Well 5120
19>49 6
5 South East 5 110
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Well 5120
20,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
- 69 South East 5120
[] North East 5120 1
r _ South Weft 5120
'e North Well 5120
' { — 20,480 .
« d.
.2- £ -
* . «S g.g
S .9* So <*-o
ed <5 a ri £ H
5 H t b.a
° I s £ e 2
3 E-» C < a "
>7 rs c a
<<* • 3j ——
C 7 2
C ?3
- . U .
5 ii South East $i 20 |
North East 5 120 .
South Weft 5140 I
North Weft yiao
20,480
13 South Eaftsl20j
Noith East yi2oj
South j 120
North Weft 5120.
j 20,480
6 4 South East 4630^
North East 4620
South Weft 5120':
North Weft 5 120
19,490
6 .South East 4730'
North East 4715
South Weft 51 2o !
North Weft 5 1201
1 19,685
8 South East 5120
North East 5 120
South Weft 5 120
North 5 1 20
' 20,480
10 South East 5 120
North East 5 120
South Weft 5 120.
North Weft 512 c
20,480
12 South East j 120
North East 5 1 20 _
S6unrwrit JTTO - "" pj
North Weft 5 120
20,480
14 South East 5 120
North East 5 120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
7 3 South £aft£i2o
Noiih East j 120 .
South Weft 5120
North Welt 5 120
20,480
J South East 51 20
North Ealt 5120
• South Weft 5120
North Weft j 120
20,480
7 South East cilp
North East 5 120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
( • 20,480
q South Jlio ; /•'
North East 51 zG — _
3otnn Wei< 5T20
North Weft <• j 20
20,480
I I South East 5120
North East 5 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft Jl2O
20,480
13 South Eafi ji2o
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
15 South East £I2Q
North East $12©
South Weft 5 120
Norrh Weft ; j
' 20 l
20,480
NOTE.
THE quantities of Lands in the several townships br
fore rnentianed, arc exciuiive of the Se&iohs ieferved by
the United States. The aggregate quantities is the seve
ral townships. have been ascertained by a&'ual survey ; but
the quantities in the quarter tewnfhips, have been no
otharwife ascertained than by calculation.
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the bejl quality and on reajonabk terms*
FOR SALE BT
Philip Nicklin & Co. .
August 7,6. dtf
In the Press,
Andfpeedily will bepublijhed, by W. Young, Mills
8c San, Corner of Second and Chcfnut-Jlreet,
An Apology for the Bible,
In a series of letters addretled to Thomas Paine, author
of a book entitled The Age of F eafon, part the second,
being an investigation of true'ahd fabulous theology.
By RICHARD WATSON,. D. D. F. R. S.
Lot-d Bishop of Llanda", and Regius PrefefTor of Divin
ity in the University of Cambridge.
Aug. 23. §*>
A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's placc is wanted by a pcrfon properly quali
fied, and whose charadler will be found uncxception*
, able. -Apply to the Pointer.
Aug. 11
Tables,"
From 16 to 9 £ inches, for /ale by
Jeremiah Warder,
July 2J $ No II northThird-ftreet.
! * ■ — • 1
Elephant.
THB Public is informed that this animal will leave Phi
ladelphia on the FIRST of Septembecjnftead of
icth, 'till which time the Proprietor will continue to cx "
hibit him as usual, in High-street near Tenth-ftrcrf*
Aug. aa 3
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—NO. 119—
CHESNU T-S TREET.
£Pricc Eight Dollars per AnatunJ
.