."ajcttt rn tanttettStates,if Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
■niESDAT EVENING, OCTOBER 2J, 1796. [Volume X.
Numbs* .288.3 _ — 7— ~ 7T, —— r . H n ,w ia
Landing this day,
From on beard thi Brig Caroline, at Chefnut-Jlrcet
wharf,
FORTY PIPES
London proof Holland Gin. w
for Sale by fel
Joseph Anthony h Co. _
OSober it. . **
Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbU. (ai
47 bbls. prims Coffee, th<
Bnfton Beef, A;
Codlrfb in bds. _
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and J Q[ L.
Northern J
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a luperior
quality. ft r
A few boxes excellent brown soap, and
A few bales India Muslins.
FOR SALF. BY
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
October 11. dx ft
Tuft arrived, and will this day be lan-
J ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at Chefnut
street wharf. to
Tons bejl RtiJJia Clean HEMP, th<
.6 Tonsfcld S»ble flit IRON, _
toe Coil. bell Ruff.. CORDAGE, affbrted file.,
40® Pieces brown Ruflia SHEETINGS,
too Bolts Ruflia DUCK,
340 Pieces Ravens do.
»o Half-down feather beds, and
A few piecesafforted DIAPER. Ii
FOR SALE BY
Joseph Anthony and Co.
The above meotioned BRIG g
will fail in'a few davs. and tak~ freight on
moderate terms for Boston or Salem, for
or passage, apply on board or as above —
October 24. 101<i
The Schooner INDUSTRY, I
fizty-feven tons burthen, almeft 3 new M
vessel and well found. Eor tcims apply to he
Joseph Anthony Es* Co.
If th« Industry is not fold in a few days, she will take
freight very low for Boston.
Aug. 24. d7t
For Freight or Charter,
jrari The fti P COMMERCE,
NATHANIEL CURTIS, Master.
Almofta new vcflel, 244 tons burthen, and will
be ready to receivea cargo in a few days. For
terms apply on board at Bright's wharf, or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
For Sale "on boavtl the above Vcjfel, _
A quantity of excellent, COAL.
6ST Peifons having goods en board, arc eameftly re<jucft- j
tj* u> r#«d their permits. *
O&ol)er21. ri!» f
™IEOR SALE,
9 HE'sHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
"Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Jf the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
October 21. diot
T
For Boston, Newbury-Port and Ports
mouth, New-Hampshire, \
The Schooner LUCY,
, Daniel Prowfe, master; will fail in
■ 'jijV the course of a week, and take freight
P on moderate terms, for which, or
A- passage, apply on board, or to
Joseph Anthony, fs 5 Co.
15. dx ,
For Norfolk, ft
(Te fail in three or four days)
The brig Zephyr,
Captain Hinchman; lying at Landenberger's wharf— „
She has excellent accommodations for paSengers—For *
which or freight, apply to the captain oh board, or to
Samuel Breck, jun.
No. 89, South I hird-ftreet:
Where may be bad
A quantity of N. E. Rum, Sherry Wine
in quarter-casks,
Sail Cloth, Nns. 1 and », and a few hundred pieces -t
of Bandanna Handkerchiefs.
Oilober 2®. 6
The "Brig MART,
Lying at MefTrs. Willings and Francis's
wharf,burthen 2003 barrels, built in Philadelphia ill 1793
of live oak and ted ccdar—She is well fOHnd, and may
be sent to sea at a small expencc. For terms apply to 1
Gurney & Smith.
o». 6. dtf.
i— FOR LONDON,
The capital ship CERES, £
Oon : —^ or f re '?ht or paflage j
to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or t
John Vaughan,
September 10. Front-ftrcet.
jM&Tp. Charter, 1
Barque Bzneventura
! lwy%rPst' Samuel mafler, ]
good veflcl, of about two hundred
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WALN. 1
Scpf. 17. dtf !
i' or Chatter,
The Ship Domiriict Terry,
1)6 Hart » maft ' r '• an excellent I
V>fcTafisSgveffcl, of about 3000 baxrels burthen,
JeJfe Sis Robert Wain. ,
September si. d
Benjamin and Jacob Johnson,
No. 147, Market-flreet,
Have received by the last arrivals from Liverpool and
Hull,
Avery general of DRY GOODS,
Well suited to the approaching season, which they wilj
fell on the I«weft terms by the piece or package. 4
October 14. taw<w
To be Let,
Two Rooms, furnijhed. or unfurnifhcd, j
In a three-ftjry Brick Houfc, at a very small dif
taucc from ihe Mcrchanta , The use of 4
the Kitchen may be had, and that of a Cellar*
Apply at this Office.
Oiftober 14. 4 £
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of Madeira landing from on
board the schooner Lucy, Capt. Prows, at Cheftiut
ftreet wharf, and for sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews,
OA. 14. mwf No. 86, So. Wharves
For Sale, - <
By J. WARDER, PARKER bf Co. ■'
An Invoice of Coifdage,
CJpnfifling of differerit Czes, from 1 a inch cables down
to rope of 2 inchcs, of different lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 17. '
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
Have received per the William Pcnn, in addition to
their own aflbrment,
A oonfignment ef twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele
jriftt'fcwtiiw? -partem* 5 alio a few cases of handsome
Buttons—Which will be fell at r. ',tm credit; on "very
1 reasonable terms, bv the package-only.
: oa. t 4 . dtf
Wm. HOLDERNESSIi,
No. 7.6 High Street,
HAS received, by the latelt arrivals from Europe and
the Eafl Indies, a well feleiSed aCortment of Silk
r Mercsry, Linen Drapery and Haberdashery Goods; which
he Will fell, Wholesale and Retail, an the lowest terms ;
amoVjgst which are,
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and fHver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aad Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black colored Persians
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and short Nankeens
' English Mantuas of the firfl quality
Damask tabic linen and napkiits, very fine
' Silk Hosiery, an elegant afTortment
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas —green Clk, oil'd do. and do clsth
French cambrics, very fine
Irish Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
-———— . , ,m
.Just Imported,
Tin Pistes in boxes
Slieet aad bar Lead
Shat —"li sizes; patent and common
Copper bottoms and flteets
English shoes and boots in cases
Taunton Ale in caiks of ,10 d»z. each
ißafket Salt
Wool Caids
> Cold Witches.
For Sak by
; Simon Walker,
Oil. >. mwfim DpcWlreet.
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and JLif"
bon, landing at thefubferibers wharf—^
28 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanirfi wool
3 do. of Annifeed . /
1 ?000 Bufliels of best Lisbon Salt
r 80 Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGB jk FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hogfheadsof prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the (hip Deminick T«rry, Capt. Be Hart,
from Kingston.
Sc Pt- t3- d
For Sale,
ir This day Landing from on board the Jlip Concord,
Captain Thompfor., from Amjttrdan,
Gin, in pipes
Empty Gin Cases
Hock in cases of 4 dos.
GJafs Tumblers irj chest*
2 Sweet Oil in cafei
Patte Graffe Cheese in boxes, fcfe.
s Also Landing by the Louisa, Capt. Bell, from Lijbon,
60 Quarter-calks Lisbon Wine.]
On Hand,
A quantity of Brandy, Hazle-Nuts in sacks, &c.
Peter Blight.
Oflober 17. d 2w eolw
, 5 This Day is Puhlilhed,
y By William Cobbett, opposite Chrift-Churrh,
An Anfvver to Pained Rights of Man,
By R. Makenzie, Esq. of Edinburgh.
To which is added,
A Letter to Citizen Swanwick,
Ey Peter Porcupine.
The whole is dedicated to Bo&or Joseph Priestley,
Fello v of the Royal Society of London, Citizen of
: e America, and Deputy Elect to the National Conven
>r tion of France.
OA.IB.
JJANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUG ALL will open his school on Mon
day the 31ft inft. at ten 6'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant P\etu Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets
- d of tu , kio " young ladies, frpm 10 t B , o'clock
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
- rsrr 6to 9 ° ,cleck ° n the evcnings °
In addition to a number of new cotillions, he means to
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Node. The firft praitifmg ball to be on Tuefdav e
at th f firft of November, and to be continued every
tuesday, durmg the season. '
For terms, &e, enquire at his house, No. 134, Market
I 041, ir.
eotf.
For Sale,
By Jeha £oWngpworth, Iff Co. 0>
is lAds. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
5 Barrels be ft Indigo, and, I y R .
, A few thousand bufhclf of Turk* a Island fait.
' 0£l " *>• Su
' 1 ■ ■ ' ' ' "
Irish Linens, &c. sv
t ' B.
Imported per the Jhips Glafgonv, from Dublin, Liber- H
ty> fr-jm Cork, and brig Mentor, from Be If aft, CI
f 4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS, y
h» v/li®le and half boxes, g,
AiTorted from nd. to 4s. Kerling-r-AK# 5-4 wide jj
Sheetings, and low priced yarn and worsted Hose.
On Hand,
7-3 Wide Lawns. of
Diapers and Table-Cloths
j A few boiwsTickens and Checks
„ A few bales Flannels
Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, Nos. I and 6
55 Boxes f 6by 8,
10 Ditto S Window Class, < 7 by 9,
s 5 Ditto J C. 8 by is.
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
drawback, and will be disposed of by the package on
reasonable terms.
James, Clibborn & English,
No. 6, N- Jjjdnt-ftreet.
n loth mo. 19th. dtf
a r > — ' h
Just Landing,
- At South firtet-tuoarf from /in board the (hip Sedg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peter/burg,
The following Goods : c
Ruflw Sail Dwelt, firft quality.
0 Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
e Do. Crash. ®'
I>«. Mou!tl Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to the lb. of jlic **
Enghlh size.
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Dq- White Socp in fmsJlhaxet.
Do. Corda*e of fir.e yam. P
Ravens Dock. , *'
lfinglafs, ill and end fort. -
d Horse Hair uncurlcd.
k Ruflia Bar Iron.
h Do. Hoop Iron.'
Do, Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
'r St. Petersburg Claan Hemp. ri
Fof Sale by a
Philips, Cramond, & Co. E
16 OAober ia. °
STOP THE THIEVES !!!
LAST Wednesday Evening, O&ober 19, between the
ioo'clock, the bed room of Mr Ricketts ia
O'Eller's hotel was entered* either bv means of falfe keys,
or at the window, by some villain or villains, who mufl have
been acquainted tvi h the Giuation of the house (as the door n
was found locked after they had committed the thef:) who i
took away irrrv amongst several trunks, ONE which con
tained a valuable part of Mr. Rickett's property, b"*t of which
he is not yet able Jo as the contents particularly. Af
ter bringing tlie said trunk away, and emptying it of up
wards of a thorifand dollars in cash and bank notes, the vil
lains left it behind the circus, during the tim# that the pcr
{•jimafites of tlie evening were forward*
It is earneflly njquefted, that nil tavern-keepers on the flage
roads, and the ferry houses, as well as all civif officers, may '
be watchful in fcainng iufpicious perfoos, who nlay have a C
redundance of ca(h, which their appearance would by no
means bffpeak them ta be pciTclTed of.
One Hundred Dollars Reward <
Will be given for securing tbc thief-or thieves, and a fur
ther reward for fccuring them with the property.
Ott. a> d.
-f f
1 For Sale, i
Carolina Riee in whole and half tierces,
Cotton of Cayenne arid-Trinidad, I
Soal Leather, entitled, to drawback,
Boston Be«f, and 1
Mould and dipt candles.—Applj to
Jfaac Harvey, jun.
No. 5, South Watcr-ftrett.
roth mo. 17. d3W. £
5 i 1 '■ ■ •• "" 1 " 1 ■ 1 '■ •* 1
£ ' Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo ef the fliip Ganges, capt, Tingty, from Ctl
— cutta and Bengal,
consisting or
A Large and general aflortment of Bengal and Madras
<t, MX. COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICII ARE
A -variety fine worked and plain MuJ!im y ,
Doreas, ft. Also,
\ A Quantity of Excellent Sugar y
In botes and bags-—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
«» Willings ?sf Francis, (
No. 21 Peon Street. 1
June 8 § ,
New Hat and Hosiery Stoke,
Wholfsali, and Retail, ;
By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL, :
No. 134, Market Street, 3d door from the corner
' of Fourth, South Side. 1
Mens' Black American and Etiglih Hats, ef various <jual- ■
ities and pricej;
Ditto Drabs and Grecn-undera.
Ladies' ditto black
And a large aflortment of faiicy ditto
Coloured Beavers
With a great variety of el«gant and falh ionable trim
mings' &c.
Yoijfch's black and drab coloured ditto.
Children's fancy ditto
All kinds of fiik, filkand cotton, cotton and thread hose
Knit coloured Pantaloons
Ditto Drawers
Ditto Breeches Patterns
Silk Gloves
l. Knotted, coloured ditto, cCtton.
;k A quantity Of mending cotton. sorted tolours.
or N. B. The hats finilhed in the newest falhon.
0 °ft- >7 ' codim.
to iWafhington Lottery.
c- The 30th. atid 31ft days'drawing of the Walbington
ry Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office No. 134, Mar
ket-street, where tickets may be examined.
:et N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
O&oht: io, 1796. 4
'
LANDING,
Out of different vejfcls from England, end for sdk
by the ftibjcribers on rtafonable terms,
Superfine and common cloths, and caffimers
Ribbed and ftripcd do. do.
Blankets , mottled green and silk rugs.
Superfine blue, Claret, and cimmon coatings,
Kerseys, Bcar-fltins, plains and HalMvick*,
Swanskins, Serges and Flannels, *-
Britilh Ingrain Carpeting,
Hats assorted in ca&s of n doz. each.
Chocolate chinties, printed CSllicqes and Ha*dkercWfs.
Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Saail,
Yarn, Worftcd, and Cotton hoficTy,
Beavers, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. See.
Buff and drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality.
6d. Bd. lod 3 4(5. add. nails, and frying pans,
An afTortment of Ironmongery, Cutlery and a variety
of India cotton, and fiik gouds.
Thomas Iff \JoJhua Fisher.
No. Si Dock-fttteet.
,Also by the Glasgow from Dublin,
1-8 and 4-4 Irilh Linens aflorted in boxes of 39 pieces
do.' Brown, Gla-zed Liimrn.
<s<st. 17. dtf.
11 '1
A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS. " v
John Miller, jun. & Co.
Exclusive of their own Importation now dpesir.g.
Have received by the William Penn, Caroline and Diana
CONSIGNMENTS,
Which comprize a capital aiTortment to opea 1
Dry Good* Store.
—Amongst them are—
Common, fnper and fuperfine Clothe,
Plain, twillM and Itrip'd Coatings, (
Baizes and Flannels,
Poitit, rofc and duffil ElankeU,
Plain and puntea Cafimeres,
Swanfdowns,
, Printed Calicoes,
Scotch Threads,
Hefiery.
They will be fold cither in whole, «r in part, by
package, on terms which render them an •bjeil worthy of
attention to purbhafers. dtf OA. 11.
- , A
To be Rented,
A Small and Convenient BREWERY, at
Morris Ville, ofpoftle Trent in.
ALL the Apparatus for Brewing ne,\* and in good
repair: A number of Barrets and Half Barrels will '
alio be rented. Poffei&on mty, be. had at any time.
Enquire of Mr. Garrett Cottringer in Philadelphia,
or Mr. Robert Morris, jan. or. Din id Mun at Morris-
Ville.
O&ober io, 1796. mth&s2w
c THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
S
By Benjamin Davies,
e No. 68, Higb-Jireet,
n The American Repolitory of ufefttl
* information, for 1797.
CONTAINING,
L Calendar for the year
A complete Regiitcr of the Executive, Legiflatiy*,
and Judiciary Officers of the General Government. '
e A Lift of thd Military Fortes of the United States*,
y Poft-Office Eftablilhment—times of re jiving tni
a clpfing the Mails at Philadelphia.
o The poftrostds and towns, apd their distances
Times of holding tfei Supreme, Circuit and DiftriA
Courts.
A table of Impost duties,, alphabetically arranged.
A lift of the cuftom-houfs officers ind their fees.
Rules for reducing the currencies of the fevefal
- states into one another, and all "of them into the mo
ney ef the United States.
Ufeful tables of the value of pound*, ihillings and
pence, in dollars and cents.
A register of the officers of the civil government of
Pennsylvania.
A gardinar's calefrdsr for Pennsylvania.
And a great variety of other articles' of ufeful informa
tion. Embeilifhed with twelve elegant vignettes, an en
graved title-pagf and frontispiece,—making together, a
handsome, M well as very ufefu>, little pocket companion.
Ofiober so. aawtf
Country Sum,
And a few pipes* of Vinegar,
a# For Sale by
sEzekiel Hall,
. At the ft ores of Mr. Edward Stow, jun. No. South
* Water-street. OSober 20. d
Imported in the late arrivals from Europe and the
Wefi-lMics,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Gh»ice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique Molaflis, in hoglheads
Choice old Lilbon Wme, in pipss and quarter-calks
London Particular ic London Market Madeira Wine*
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-casks
Malmsey Madeira Wine, in pipes and quarter-calks
Teneriffe Wine, in piprt •
Rufiia & Flemilh Sheeting ahd Ravens Dusk, in caf<#
?f Window Glass, Bby 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in caflcs
J. Mill Siws and Crols-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on band,
A few chtfts of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; Afl*f«-
tida and Tapioca ; and a fe-jr bales ps Coffaes,
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs. and a complete aiTortment ef 5-4 and 6-4
Boulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers & Co.
Prober 10 d2wml{thim
SAILCLOTH.
On Monday., the 3 ijl injl* will be Sold
at Public Sale, at the Store of Mejfrs.
George Hunter Sis Co. No. 153, Pearl
Jlreet, New-York,
275 Pieces of the Befl
on English-West Country Sail Cloth,
By fomc persons called East Coken, and.by others
let Weft Coken.—lt is of known excellency; wears
white, and does not mildew.
October ti dtl9th.
1rHE PANTHEON,
And Ricxetts's Amphitheatrr,
"or Equeftrtar and Stage performances, Corner of-
Chcfnut and Sixtk-ftreets.
TO-MORROW EVENING, Weduefday, OA. t6,
Will be presented,
A variety of pletfingEntertain merits,
HORSEMANSHIP.
Mr. RTckettf will pick up a pin from the ground,
thehorfe in full speed.
•And in partisular for this night, Mr. Ricketts will leap
over a pole ten feet hi|h, the horses in fall speed.
. After which will be prefen'ed, »
A COMIC DANCE,
•By Mr. Durang, who will change from a dwarf three
f*rt high,Vi a woman lixfrer high.
EQUESTRIAN EXERCISES.
Py Mr. Ricketts and Co
•And (by detire) will be presented for this night,
The Sports of Newmarket ;
Or, The PONEY RACES.
And (for this night only) Ihe whole to conclude with
a Pantomime, called,
The TRIUMPH of VIRTUE,
Or, Harlequin everywhere,
Among other scenery will be represented,
An elegant view of
Broadway and the Government-House in New-Tori.
AlsO,
A grand view ef the Delaware and Jersey Shore.
To commence with the original Overture of
OSCAR and MALVINA.
Harlequin, 1 Mr. Sully.
Lover Mr. Tompkins.
Pantaloon, Mr. Durang.
Punch, Mr. Coffie.
Palliafo, Mr. F. Ricketts.
Piero, Mr. Spinacuta.
Arfel, Mrs. Tomplcins,
And Colnm'oine, Mrs. Spinacuta.
MANDARINS,
Meflrt. Griffin, M'llroy, Grant, Snider, Milb,
Troft, Scc.
Sailors, Watchmen, Sec. by the reft of the
Company.
In the eourfe of the Pantomine, the favsrite
y song of
ICH bin kieterlich.
By Mr. SULLY.
The whole to conclude with the view of a
Superb Temple,
AND A
DANCE by the Characters.
*»" The Ladies and Gentlemen who feeure (tat* m
the day time, are requested to attend pun&ually at 7,
as the performances are so arranged as to conclude by
Jo o'clock—the doers will opea at 6.
$5" Box, J3. 6d.~Pit, 3*. 9d.
Tickets to be had of Mr, Ford, at the ticket office in
Chefnut-ftreet, from tws to three o'clock each day.
gf Silver TickeM, to- admit for the felon, to be had
by applyisg to Mr. P icketts at the Pantheon, or at Oel
lers's Hotel.
LODGINGS.
WANTED TO RENT,
plainly furniftied, (bedding* excepted) a Parlour or
fitting Room, iwa Bed-Chamfees, and a Kitchen A
line addressed to Jv J. at rhe Printer's, No. 119, Chef.
Bnt-ftrcer, will- be attended to.
o<slober it.
) 1 —
Boarding and Lodging
TWO GENTLEMEN may be accommoda-ed with
Boarding and Lodging, in a private family and pleasant
part of the city. Apply t. the Printer of the Gazette of
the United States.
O&oberii. tt&stf
Mr, RICKETTS
BEGS leave to inform the Ladies and Gentlemen, that
he wiil open his RIDING SCHOOL on the ift of Nov.
for'the inttrudion of Ladies and Gentlemen in the ele. 1
gant aecomplilliment of riding and managing their horses 1
with ease to themfclves.
Mr. Ricketts has well trained Hotfes for the accom
modation of Ladies and Gentlemen for exercise, t. pay
snonthly. Pupils to pay by tha season, or by the lclTon.
Horses trained to the road or field.
October 1-4. d j
Lofl Last Evening, i
At Rieketts's Amphitheatre, (supposed to be taken By
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket) I
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK, ,
"Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes j
of hand of Rofsand Simfbn, No. .104, 305 and .to 6, da
ted 11th ] aft August, payable 60 day* after date, to the '
order of Paul Siernen, together for 5150 dollars; an ord.r
of Mrs. Ann \ acpherfon, from Paul Sicmen, on Lach- f
ljn Mac N«al, EOj. at Port-an-Prince,fnr 100 dollars; be- r
fides several letters asd papers of no «fe but to the propria- f
tor. The notes of hind and order are without endorse- ,
Tnent. ErGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to 1
any pfrfoti -whe will dileove- and feeure the thief, and *
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above mcnti- t
oned notes and pipers at No. 119, comer of Frolit and
Mulberry ftr«ts. d OA. 11.
50 Dollars Reward. I r
Loft, a red Morocco Pockei-Book y *
BETWEEN the Center House and the White Horse in J
coruainingtwo to dollar bank-notes, *ne
ef jc dollars, and one branch.bank-note of one dollar ; j
George Weed's note of hand for 2JO dollars, eudorled '
A. Jostnt; a note of ■■ Jackson for 100 dollars; a- 1
note of Mr. Carr for 100 dollars; a note for 75 dollars, t
v and one «f Mr. for 65 dollars—and levcral other r
ootcj, belonging to the fukferiter. 1
t he. Public are rcfpe<Sfully deSred not to recefve any
of those notes, as they can be of no ufs to any perion but ®
the owner, payment being ftopsed, Whoever wHI deli- v
-ver the fame at the office of this Gairtte shall receive the f ;
above reward. AARON JOSEPH. r
o>3ober 7J.
To be Sold, J
The Time of a smart, a£trve Negro Lad, e ,
Who has Eleven years to fer\e. w
Inquire at No. _jB, South Front-ftrtet, .1
Oflobei 1!. j
Wants a Place,'
Either as Clerk or liock-Ketpcr in a Store, a Person
whe can produce good referencet as to tharidter, &c. c<
Apply at the Office of thi« liaaette, b'
.. Wlober 14. j hi
1 * «
1 F*r the Gazette of the Unitfd Statss.
PHOCION—No. IX.
IN the tall number 1 have disproved Hampden's
5, charge againlt Mr. Adatns, us having uniformly vo
ted in the senate again ft the opinion of the repre
fentativet, and have produced a ftrorg instance to
'' fliew not onljr the fcbfolute fa!f«hood of the cbarg«,
but that Mr. Adams had laid it down as a rule, to
vote with the reprefentativet, in cafet of equal divi.
(ion in the senate, unlefi his judgment vat very
clearly and (tiongly convinced that he ought to vote
l P differently.
1 could produce some other inftanees of his ha
ving pursued that line, but #ne pointed cafe was fuf
ficient to convict Hampden of a falfe aflirtion
This specimen of his liberality and candor will give
a jult idea of the credit to be given to the rell of
his aflertiofM, The refutation of this, and the pre.
ceding charges. Jo pofitiveiy made, will also pm the
good citizens of this country en their guard againlt
similar charges produced by Mr. Jefferfon'* parti,
j, zans, againlt Mr. Adams.
Where did Hampden find the fa£t > if in the
journal* of the senate, let him produce the cases,
for they tie all dated in the journals ; if those be
resorted to, I am convinced as many instances can
be found Where Mr. Adams voted on the one fide
j as ou the other. Hearsay and mere report are not
fuffisient grounds of condemnation before the en
lightened tribunal of the public J the mere alTerti
ons of Hampden will certainly not be credited after
this- detection. It seems to be the peculiar charao
teriftic of those, who itile themMvet in thit Coun.
ty, the excltfivepatrittt, the true democrttf, ta build
up their own reputation-oa the ruin of their adver
saries, and to support their fyllem *«d importance
by inceflant del ration and the word barefaced falfe
hoods. But however they may have hitherto sup
ported a momentary confluence with a few unin
formed citizens, the fight of truth will ere long dif
t pel the baneful naifti of calumny, with which they
have enveloped the bed mm among ut, and rtsakc
e these defining hypocrite*fculk. back into their na
ttve obscurity.
If Mr. Adams fiat sometimes voted differently
from the reprefenwives, it is to be fairly presumed
that his judgment so directed him, nor oan it be
presumed that in such cafst he was clearly on the
wrong fide ; when so enlightened a body as the se
nate are equally divided, the question will be allow,
ed to be a nice one, and altho' it may have been
carried in the representatives, yet the majority there
may have been small, which indeed we k*ow to hare
t been aftnlly the cafe in very important qneftions.
It by no meant follows, as Hampden suppose*,
, " that the opinion of the reprefentstives must be I
always the opinion of the people." If so, all the i
senates, all the qualified negatives of the executives
t ought to be abolished : the afTettion it a libel on all
the American constitutions, and a severe censure on
Mr. J«ffer£»n's do&rine, for he calls the rliere will of
tbfc representatives (unchecked by the senate) an
eleaive tyranny, the very definition of despotism. If
Mr. Adams ought, againlt his decided j'udgment, to
vote with the itprefcntative* on every equal division
of the senate, that body would be a fuperfluou*
member of the constitution, and the conllitutien,
now Co much admired, converted to a« elective des
potism. ,
The ttniverfal eftabfifiiment of senates in the U
nited States, proves however, that our citiwns think
differently from Hampden on this fubje&, and their
frequent approbation of the eonduft of the senates
and executives, in refilling the will of the reprefen
tatrves (frequently ih« momentary will of a wicked
fa ft ion,) proves chat they do aot alwaya-cenfider
their will as the opinion of the people. No aft of
the President's whole life has been more grateful to
the people of America, or has added taore to the <
retire of his fame, than his resisting the will of the i
representatives on the late call for papers ; which I
call is no# viewed throughout the union in its true i
light, as a meafute 4f party, merely deCgned to an- 1
fwer certain party views. t
Thus we find Hampden's reasoning as falfe at hit 1
fact : he firlt affumet- a fact, inr oiiliftem with «
truth, and then argues on it on principles, totally I
mconiiftent with the principles of the conltitution t
and of public feedem, and in direst opposition to h
the very principles of hit friend and patron.
Airong the other meritaof Mr, Jefferfon, at sta
ted by Hampden, we find «* bis attachment tr> the I '
civil and religious rights of his fellow-citizens:" *
for the proof, we are referred to his writings and ! I
»OBLtC CONDUCT. h
We have fern some specimens of his writings r 1 f
trom tome parts we may infer a pretty ftromr dif- !
pofitton to entrench on feme of the evil rightt of 1 °-
his fellow citizens, particularly in his projedt of a I '
senate, which would undoubtedly, ou his plan, etta- i "
an "riflocracy, very injurious to the nVhu of I
the poor daft of hit fellow-citizens. i P
B«t the proof of a rteady attaofcment to the ci- I /?
V n f h, * of onf '' Wlow-citizen, o«ght not to reft\ si,
«,,, . this attachment ouirht to be 'a
evinced by pui/u eendud, by aflion, and in time, of ai
danger ; then the hazarding of personal fafety for d
he prefcrvation of our evil rights i, the hightlt «,
teitimony of rhere „ no *
10 composing, in the cabinet, i„ of tranquil
ity, essays on c.vU rights, which are frequently done
to obtain popularity, and without any riflt of D er
fon*l inconvenience. P
a h ,TT' ,hst Mr - jefferfi,n ' a b ;
I if C r n L d ' h " £ CHerall y facrificed the ct" ,!
i fafet'v W C n mrymen ,0 h, ' s own P Crf
\ V e arc , ° Id ' ,B a P ublic addiefj, by Mr
Charles Simms, of Virgisia, w ha mult hav< been ni
well acquainted with the circumltanee, "• that Mr
Jefferfon, when governor of Virginia, in the year "
ed at'the'm > rv J l *hich he was chlrg
ed, at the moment of an invasion by the enemy. L o
which, great confufion, lefi and difiref* 5
e | ft,Uflion ° f pub,ic and in
.vouchersfor general expenditnres.
Now here was a period of public danger, when fr <
Mr. Jefferfon , attachment :o the civil right, of his n!l
coun t7mcn ht have ftionc v conf ; !cu ' lac
by faemg and averting the danger, l.e.e woufd th '
have been a fine opportunity f or bin to have d.£- %
5? plaj'ed fpiiit in bravely rallying round
the ilandard of liberty and civil rights: Hut, tho'
in times qf fafety, he could rally round the stand
ard of his friend, Tom Paine, yet when real dan
ger appeared, ths governor of the antient dominion
n ' s dwindled into the poor, timid phtlofophtr, and in
ra" stead of rallying his brave countrymen, he fled for
re * fafety from a few light-horsemen, and (hjtmefully
to abandoned his trust * ! r
?«» Again, when the peace and tranquillity of the
to United States were in extraordinary peril, when it
v '* required the exertions and talents of the wisest and
•7 bravoft statesmen to keep the federal (hip from
ste foundering on the rocks, with which (he was en
compassed, he, when his aid was most essential,
,s- abandoned the old helmsman > and, with his wonted
l, f* caution, fkullced away to a snug retreat, leaving
P others to buffet wtth the storm, an<T if they were
lve cast away, to bear all the obloquy and public dif
®f gra'feT
rf * How different was the conduct of the fptrited
' !e and truly patriotic Hlmilton \He wished to re-!
n jl tire as mutb as the phil"fopher of Montecclli ;he
"■ had a large fartiHy, and his little fortune was /ait
melting away in the expensive metropolis, but with
» Rowan's spirit, he decla-red " that, much ay he
:8 » wished for retirement, yet, he would remain at his
post, as long as there was any danger of his coirn-
SH try being iivulved in war."' How different the cou
c'e dust of the great WASHiHBTotr ?He tells us. that
ot he had refolded to retire before the last election,
1" but the then perpltxed ana Critical situation of tjie
country forbad such a step. How different was
" even jtjferjm himftf, when ca lift tily and f'f'b
c * writing ins Notes on Virginia, from wnat -he was
n - when called upon to ad in times of peril ? iff his
W Notes, page 13.5, in reprobating the proposition
T * made in the Virginia assembly in December 1776,
p e to appoint a diSator, he exclaims, " Was this mo*.
e - ed on a flippofed right in the movers of abandoning
?• their pcjlt in a moment of dijirtfs f Our laws forbid
n * the abandonment of our pojs, hen on ordinary tcca
f- fori."
7 Whether Mr. jefferfon forefiva the toefern infur•
te reflion, and either conscious of hiawant of courage
or capacity to aft on l'o trying an occasion, or of
Fiia good wishes toward some of the promoters of
ly it, not determine, but it is our duty to
Hate some fa&s ; the comment* on them will be
'* left to a discerning public.
It is certain that Mr. Jefferfos resigned the «f.
See of fciretary of state in January or February
•n *794' a 'hat the infurreflitH broke out the July
re following, having manifefted threatening symptoms
■p some months before. Citizen FaUebct, of glorious
memory, in his intercepted letters, (which canfed
#> the dismission of citizen Randolph, also of glorious {
>e memory, the virtuous author of the frewas con
ie has the following passage—" Mr. Ran
.s dolph came to fee me with an air of great eagerness,
jj and made to. rat the overtures 0 f which I have
in P> V *P you an account io my No. 6.—Thus with
»[ f ,m ' tbuufunds of dollars, the republic (if France)
n c 0 ",,, Ut " e derided on CIVIL WAR,or on peaee !
[f ,hus 'he tonfciences of the pretended patriots of A
-0 merica Lave already their prices! What will be the
n old age of this government, if ft is thus early
14 'ecreptd! Still there are patriots, of whom I de
light to entertain an idea worthy of that impofinfr
p_ title. CONSULT Monroe he is of this num- !
ber: he had apprized me ms the men, whom the I
r. current cf events had dragged along as bodies de.
k. vo ' f ' of wt, g hl : hh friend Madison is also an ho
r . raan: Jjff er f en < °n whom the patriots calt
' I" ' u< ' cee( ' PreCdent, HAD FORE
. SEEN 1 HESE CRISES : he prudently retired I
. in order to avoid making a figure AGAINST!
r His INCLINATION in scenes, the secret of }
f which will thon or late be b*»ught to light."
' j',^ e e ar » hy the newspapers that Ran.
; dolph has been to visit Mr. Jeffstfon, and has an. 1
; nounced Ins determination to serve, if elected pre- f
v lident ; lie has not yet announced hi# own deter- f
; m.nation to return to his former secretaryship, if
. his friend ftould he preffdent: but his aSivity in
tanvaj/ing for htm leaves no r.om for doubt, as to 1
1 his ti'ijbes and expcßations : it is apprehended, how.
1 ever, by some of the friends of both these eha
lafters, that a late legal call on on, of them for
1 'he immediate settlement of f oa3e old accounts and
I balances will prove highly injurious to both.
' ft'riking instance,
: abandonment of his trust at very
, tnttsalmoments, 1 cannot omit the following f tn f lbl^
i L em Kf ° f M V ChSr ' M Thefefnfta ces ti
|he observes, few Mr. Jefferfon / 0 u,a»t 1
, and a mar, (h ß tl one- have abandoned the'
:of a lift T T'' ° rat at «
'1, i rm ' tn "> be trusted nf better d,
times, for no,ne can Inou, Lo-u,fion or from -whence I
a storm may C f,me." w I
'' t,.,Kll hefC W j"J' e ac^ a, ' «"'th Mr. Adams's I
i public conduct, from the very commencement of
«Kr. Pi
,o "" u " 1 '" 1 »
phocjon. u
enquiry into t ? ,n * a > after I
and "ihgrity, hut altogciVer V,.v«7 h,s is
frmne/s, whkh had keen ♦flewufe of h fl' T""' "A bc
r.lt wm nalural f° r hit iriends in the ass n J""
«>lh over the buf.nefc a, well y'° var " th S
danger kei nfr » a ft t hc r <- 1, P ,„ y tou, d» and the j ,
" in that flair ° f
I ceeding, not fro™ any cnml n .li,'v h n ' KtU pro_ I
I tutisnal weakneft of ncrvei it L' u '! rom a conlti- I<n
to get such a v„,<. t h r o U}: h the affemhT d ' fficu!t r ">»«er Pis
ly as the cbmrafhr oi the 5 '."? ore efpecial-1 the
m the bufinef, than that th , governor "" pliclted anc
fr«>m France, wcrrpre'uale Prcfldent J pa,
Uted States, and not ai h,« n® J'™"** tl > «h« U- I P
lace in Pari, worth"form^ool' ° ! * P»"
the purchase of which he L guinea, (and for ? m
Paper) it i s net p r(jUab!<r tc ' 1 Par " «wf
fo°«. * O°C WlfteJ returu quite /„ Co
, n J fOR THS CAZBTTk OF THE UNITED STATES
Jj' FOREIGN INFLUENCE.
an- ~ f erfe 7» 08t. 19.
Mr. Fenno,
A short time since, a certain S. S. rcGding at
for Trenton, who is said by fame peiions to be a refu
,Hy E ee fro ™ England, sent me the inclosed paper
A large packet of the fame was sent to our town
the dlre^ed a num ber of the citizens; and, as 1
,jt have since been informed, they were circulated thro'
ind all part* of this and the neighbouring states. ]t it
om headed at Boston ; but there is bo doubt of it»
e „ having been printed at Philadelphia, under the au-
j a j spices of a certain club A similar artifice vvna
>et J pradtifed by the fame club, in regard to the pen.
tions againlt the British treaty. Large packets of
those petitions were dispatched to all pang 01 the
( . f _ Union ; a«d thus the opinions of those men, whoiti
America, France, and all the world abhor?, \w«
ed attempted to be palmed on the of tie
re . U * S - a ' thc of the American people.
he In the present initance, the fame game is play,
ait '"S -1 qucfttoo ii. whether the electois oi' the
United States wiH exerciife their own unbiiifTed
h . judgments, or submit to the controul and influence
vs ° r " a J* cob: " clllb » by the exertions of a fo
reign incendiary.
Aj these reanglers of the work of Mr. Adam*
have molt impudently garbled and altered their pie
tended extra&s ftom hi, book, 1 have referred to the
h ' P^S e » quoted in their lying handbill, ana have tran-
lcibed the sentences at ia.gg, which 1 requrd yon
to inlcrt immediately uider it j And I mitt the tan
a's ° f thu,e P rintflti wh « have publi&ed the fiift,
will lead them to inlert these alfo—lt is bu: juilice
to their readers aird the public,
g" A SUBSCRIBER.
V Bojlon, 7.yh Sept. j 756.
AT this important crilis, George Wafhmgtoi*
' having declined ferviug as President of the United
"• States, after the 4th of March next, and John
Adams having been held up as a candidate to fuc
r" cc«d him n» that office, it is conQeured a duty to
l e submit tu-the consideration of the cftiaens of the
" United States, ft*ndry political dodrines and opi
-5 nions on government, written by Mr. Adams, whillk
mimfter at the court of London, m his buuk, en*
lc titled, " A Deftnee of the American Conjlitutian."
Letthe independent citizens of America now de«
f. termine, hofr far Mr. Adams has apoltatifed from
y all his former sentiments in favour of American 1?-
y berty and independence, writing this eulogium
„ of monarchy and the Biitilh conttitution, and con
1, lequently, how far he in to be regarded as a fit per.
d ton to be ele£Ved President of the United States.
is Amskicanus.
-Vol. I.
i. Page 8. A limited monarchy may be jufUy de.
r, ' nominated a republic.
e 110. Wealth, birth, family pride, refpe&ed
h by ail people.
f 116. Wealth, birth and virtue, form the belt
f men.
'T9- A commonwealth can no more consist of
s a people without gentry, than of a gen
y try without people.
to 6. Kitig/y government belt; Tyranny word,
r No city is more wretehed than that
under tyranny, nor any more happy
e than that under regal power.
194. If the power of negotiation and treaty
be in one man,. there can be no ia
t t rigue.
321. Had Epamtnondas lived, to display his ta« '
/ lents as a legillator, the world might
have been blessed with an Englijb con
s ftitution two or three thoalaud yeai#
sooner than it was.
325- Limited monarchy the belt government |
superior to republica-nifm.
3.60. Diftitiftions »f poor and ricft, as necessa
ry as labour and good government—*
Poor are destined to labour j the rich,
by advantages of education, indepen
dence and le.fuie, to superior itatiens.
J73. Men of property and family, fitteit for
public service.
375' R'ch, -well torn, until educated,'mlift be
preferred to offici, otherw(fe the
people themfelvcs will delpifc them.
379* Mmifters of the executive only ought to
be rcfpoubble.
Mr. Adams's work is no! entitled A Defence ef '
the American Conjlitution. When the firtt volttrou
was printed, that conltiuition was not in exiltence*
The London edition is now before me.—
Page 8. Does not contain a sentence to warraßt
tlie above intinuatien.
no. Contains nothing to jtiftify the sentiment
alluded to.
it 6. Ditto.
1 59° 1 l ,e paflage ran* thus—" Harrington Uyip-
Ab army may as foldierj without
officers, or of ofSceis without soldiers, as a com
monwealth eeoliA of a pfopie without a genuy» of
of a gentry without a people."
306. Contain* part of the 9th book of Plato-
Plato is defcribtng the tyrant that springs out of
mad demooacy, and contrasts him with a legal fo
vereigii or king. Ihe whole lenience runs lhu»-i»
" Let us finitii then «ur worst man. He «-ill bea»
wake, fucb as we described him asleep, and he wtw
appeais the most wicked, shall really be the moA
, wietcWd. Aa many men, as many minds: as city
is to city, as to virtue and happi/iefj, so will man
be to m3n - r kingly government i» the bets, and ty
ranny the worst. So city is more wretched thaa
that which is under tyranny, nor any more happy
than that under reg.l power." On this Mr. Adams
makes no comment } but, the letter concludes tlmf r
•n the next psge—» Thus, lir r you have fotr.e of
, » fentuneoti on morals and politics ; how much
t ey are to Mr. I ingot's purpole, we may ihew in
another letter."
294. I tie real passage {lands thus—" And if the
power of negociation and treaties, and the whole
exvcuttveiiad been in one naa, c»uld the perfidious
anibafTadors of Sparta, and Hates, have
intrigued, and embroiled every thing as they did ?'
omparc this with the gaibled fciitcace set againd
page 394.3ii. TVs passage tn the bsok i. a. folUws—" It
it much to be regretted, that Epaminoodas did not
Sve to display his talents a* a legislator; the world
might fofflbly hare been blefled with fomttk'mg lile
an Englilh cotaditution, two or three thousand
years sooner ft wag."
314. The paflage from which the diflorted sen
tence it drawn, dands thus—" In a learned and in
genious discourse, delivered by himfclf, ft he baron
de Hert(bergJ he has attempted to (hew'the advan
tage! of Ample monarchy over all kinds of republi
can governments, even that best species of them,
limited monarchies"
360. The fenience in this page Hands thus—
The didinflions of pnor and rich are as necefiary
in dates qf confiderabie asctent, as labor and good ,
government,. The poor are dedined labor ; and 1
Ihe rich, hy the advantage* of education, indepen
dence and leisure, are qualified for superior fta-
is." The word qualified is omitted by the can
did qtioters.
373. The fenience in quedion runs thus—"the
general, even without being sensible of it, will na
turally fa'! in with the views of the aiidscratical L
body, in promoting men of family, preperty and ,
abilities ; and indeed, in general, it will be his
duty to do this, as such are undoubtedly, in general,
the fitted for the service."
Thegar'olers have here omitted the word abilities.
275. Mr. Adanis it here depi&ing, the pernici ,
ous effeds resulting from a (ingle branch govern
mint. The fenfence Hands thus—*' the American '
provincial congrcfs had experience enough of this ; j*
and gentlemen were more convinced by what they
there saw, heard, and felt, than they would have
been by reasoning or reading ;it was generally a V
greed that the appointment of officers by lot would "
have been a more rational method—but this is not l '
all : the army, the navy, revenue, excise, cudoms,
police, justice, ana all foreign miniders mud be gen
tlemen, that is to fay, friends and connexions of the
rich, well born ;.nd well educated members of the
house jor if they are not, the community will be h
, filled with {lander, fufpicioa and ridicule against ri
them, &c. The paifage it appears is directly level- ft
led againd the doctrine of the wretched garblers. I"
f37g. The Centcnce ttands thus-~" I had alnaoft
ventured to propose a third assembly for ihe execu
tive power, but the unity, thefecreey, the dispatch
of one man has no equal ; and the executive power
fltould be watched by all men ; the attention of the c '
whole natian (hould be fixed upon one point, and N
the blame and renfure, as well as the impeachments '1
and vengeauce for abuses of this power, (hould be g
solely dire&ed to the ministers of one than.'' as
* The foregoing quotations may serve to de
velope the Impudence an<J roguery of a set of the
mod abandoned calumniators that ever attempted 5'
to impose on ihe people of any country whatever U
IMffWer __
v 1 1 1 ; 5 iv
Philadelphia f h
cb
TUESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER tj, 1796. Us
■ Ull
SUCTION KETVXXS, ha
de
Cheder County, W
Governor—Thomas MifHin 1688
Aflembly—Roger Kirk 1701 be
Thomas Bull 14.37 3"
Robert Frater 1329 >2, sri
Abiah Taylor 1311 ? th<
James Hannum 937 J of
Andrew Boyd 79a his
David Denny joj hi
Jot- M'ClelUn 4.63 i»j
Coagrefs. Del. Co. Chester eo. Total. at
» Richard Thomas 499 783 i2Bjchofen. tie
William Gibbons joi 941 114.3
Senate. Cheftet. Montg. Bucks. Total. to
Wm. Chapman 230 827 591 1648 cho. fer
Jof. M'Clellan 1124 330 164 1618 pa
Thomas Jcnks 326 70 664 1060 "ral
Amos Gregg \% 196 711 926 bu
Further Tratftuhtns from Hamburg papers by the to
Jh'tp America. Ai
UPPER RHINE, Sptember 6. ma
The fceneof war is fhifiing back from Franco- of
m'a to the environs of the Lahn and Lower Rhine, tot
The Frenchare every where retreatingaftera bloody dai
battle which took place the 3d 111 ft. near Wurtz* eoi
burg, wherein the Imperialists were vi&arioni.. . cet
\ Wurtzburgh the citadel thereof, Sw.nefurth, Geln- tbl
haufen, 4c. are in the hands of the latter. On the anc
id inR. a severe engagement took place between nac
the French general Moreau and the Imperial ge- bat
neral Nauendorf, in which the ImpenjlilU at lad low
got the better.
/ WURTZBURGH, September 3. W,
// The jd ad and 3d inft. were remarkable days nen
/for this city. On the id ind. half after two P. M- acc
ihe alarm was given, that the Imperialids were at cen
jthe gates, and almod in the fame instant a detach- hot
anient of Au(lrian light-horse earoe along the-ftreet whi
the Auguftines towards the Mayn bridge. The con
French, by no meant prepared for such a visit, hur. the
rted some into the houses, some into ,tbe fortrefs ; den
those who fell into the hands of the Imperialists, tffei
were cut to pieces. The Imperialids galloped e- i
very wherethrough the city, and nothing could eflei
wtthdand their bravery. Tow aids evening more Lef
troopi rode into the city, and others encamped covi
round the fame. The enemy now commenced a med
dreadful cannonade from the fort which laded from the
5 o'clock in the afternoon of the jtt, until three f
o'clock in the afternoon of thethiid without any Gbt
intermiffioM ; the terrors of the inhabitants were ihe
to much the greater as they fired into the city, and ed t
some people were killed and others wounded.— at C
Twenty (hot fell on the city hall only. The garri- C
fan of the fort absolutely refufed to surrender, tho' fron
furrour.ded in some parts already, and tho' the heavy he v
artillery, fortunately for us, had been removed fame malt
days before. lutic
On the 2d towards noon General Grenier arri- wait
ved vyith his division from Aindeis, and towards prov
4 o'clock in the afternoon one of the hotuft en- the
gsgements commenced which laded till late in the on t
night but was not decisive. General Jourdan who of t
had been all along in the neighbourhood of Swine-, ry ft
v 1 , >,
It furth, arrived in the night with his whole army,
I not and towards morning Archduke Charles likewise
rorld wiih 8000 men cavalry ? With break <Jf day the
like battle began in the neighbourhood of this aity, with
sand unexampled obdiuacy ; long was our fate in fur
pence ; at lad at 4 o'clock in the afternoon we
fen- heard, that the Audrianshad obtained the vidtorjr.
1 in- Soon after General Hotze made his entry into
aron this city and was received with loud acclamations j
van- the dead of the French lay in heaps, 4000 are said
lbli- to be taken prisoners. The French in their re
em, treat burnt 5 villages, a number of waggons with
wounded Auftrians arrive here likewise. W
is— Jud now the fort wrs summoned again, but thi/,
fary garrison will not surrender, unlrfs a free pafTage im 1
ood granted them, because the French haye a great dsaf/
and of money there. 1 fj
BY THIS DAY'S MAILS.
CHARLESTON, September 15. J
na- tl,e L y dii » ftom New-York, a gentleman of ,
ical thi,cit y recc > T(;d * remittance of 150 dollars, from v
1B( j M r - Ricltetts, the celebrated equeltrian performer
for the benefit of tUe fufferers by the late fire in
ral, ,hilci, r- _ '
■ it NEW-YQRK, Oflober 24. '
c j A Halifax paper of O&.. Bth isjud put into our jj
m- ' landa 34 the paper is going t® press-it contains
, an two letters from John Dormer, dated September 19,
; 8 . and at L'Ance a L«i.pe, in which he dates that he "
ip ' had received intelligence from a Mr. Hine, at Tem- '
ive P !e ® av ' *" l^e e Streightsof Belifle, that the J
a Que!4.- merchant (hips and the French fleet were
ild ' n snd fofnier would probably be
•®t taken ; . 1
ns, Late Foreign Intelligence,, a
"ii- By the Ceres, from Liverpool. Ij
he DOWNING-STREET, Sept. 18. «
he Dispatches, of which the following are copies, ci
be have been received from Capt. Andruther, by the oi
nft right hon. lord Grenvilie, his raajedy's pjiricipa! hi
el- fecretsry of date for foreign affairs. si
Head quarters of his royal highness the archduke m
oft Charles, Zell, near Wurtzburgh, September 4, it
ru- 1796- K
ch My Lord, ,{,
rer Your lordlhip is acquainted with the unfortunate jgt
he circumstances which obliged colonel anr? Mr. Ipr
nd R- Craufqrd to remain for a time at a didance from re
its 'he fccne of operations. The ahfence of these ir
be gentlemen st a moment so particularly interrfting of
as the piefent, must be regretted, as a loss to the A
; e _ public service ; which, though as their requtft, I fa
nsw attempt to detail to your lordship the late pro-' on
ed ceedl ' ,, J> , 'he army, I feel myfelf inadequate to be
t fu P'?'y- . . " tri
our lorijlhip is already informed of the move th
JJJ ments of his royal highness the archduke up to the
31ft ultimo; at which period the light wing of mi
the army was assembled in the plain betwixt For- ofi
cbeim and Bamberg; and the left, confiding o| mc
upwards of twenty battalions and fifty re;
um'er the command of lieutenant-general Brzary;
had reached Eberacb ; and threatened at once, b) cai
detachment*, the points of Schweinfurt and oi
Wurtzburgh.
Early on the 31ft the archduke entered Bsir
berg; and, from the information there received of th(
the enemy, determined t® pu(h on with the who), pr,
army towards Wurtzburgh ; a. being the point on Pr
the occupation ef which depended the pcffibility pr<
of forcing Jourdan to abandon the Meyn, and take an,
his retreat through the-country of Fulda, on the qu
Lahn. His royal highness proceeded in the even wit
mg to Bourg Eberach—General Kray took post wh
at Lltmann, and general Stzary advanced to Klo
1. Iter Schwartzach.
On the id ot September the jsrehduke marched p"i
to Ober Schwarjzach, general Kray to Gerolddtof
,. fen, and general Staary to Kitzingen, where he
pafled the Meyn : his atlvanced guard under gene
ra! Hotze, took poffeflion of the town of Wurtz
burgh, the French garrison retiring into the citadel. ,
In the mean time the enemy drained every nerve
v to reach Wurtzburgh before the main body of the P °?
Auftnan army (houid come up ; and by forced P m'
marches arrived at Kornaeh, within three leagues
" ? L T*' ,he / ,me which g""' 1 Hotze 7
. took poffeflStn of ,t. Next day (the 2d) Jour- ? ,m
v dan attacked, with the atmolt impetuosity, the { f"'
corps under general Stzary ; but though he fuc- der '
- C " dfd ,n f° rcin K some of his pods, he was not T
• ,b tt °"' lie 7 impr.ffian on the main position; ° '
e and retired t» the evening to the camp near Kor! eldc
1 nach. There he resolved to abide the event of a '
- battle ; and ,n that view, podeJ himfelf in thefol- on
t (owing manner; dep
Hi. right wing to the Meyn, a little below fev<
Wurtzburgh, reded on a very commanding emi.
i nence ; in front of which a deep river rendered the r
. access extremely difficult. The fird line of hi. t Tr
: centre occupied a long, narrow wood, skirting the
bottom of a chain of heights, on the ridge of l
which his second line was jjoded. His left wing
• cor fid wig alm „ft entirely of cavalry, was placed in fe
• the spacious plain in f.ont of Kornach ; but confi-
i r '^, thrown back, in order to receive the more \
tttedual support from the infantry in the wood. mai ,
A numerous artillery wasdiftributed on the molt ,k e
T7u POint ' al ° ng h " front - The divifmn of f ron
e e vre remained poded behind Schweinfurt, to The
cover the great road to Fulda, and a f ßa ., intcr .
mediate corps maintained his communication with com
the army.
His royal highness Halted the 2 d in his camp of
Ober ; whild a bridge was thrown on °
.he Meyn, near Dettelbach, which was not finifc. =
«o°Jo
General Suary, in the mean time, judging
from the force and usual condufl of Jourri.n, thft n
iTiCrf wT hi ' tffor ' B t0 rtnd « himfelf 0r »
ktfj Jf J * ; g ' tmbra " d the fpiri«ed refo.
wahL°f T- " a t ,anC V ng a S ainft him > ,h »" of A 1
waiting for him m this pofit,on.->-The archduke ap- A 1
proved of this idea, and, determined to facilitate
oa e thr UI, °" ° f , by maki "8 a CDmbißtd P
of i c r r^ o - ,ake piace ta,i y in ,he n Pr
rv fl U — r "itcntion was, that general Book
ry should move forward ag.iqll the cotps which q<
inoy, wai ojipofed so fifrti; that ttie m*in body, e '<f"rr
ewife the command ef general Wartenfleben, p?fling,tbc
r the bridge at Dettlebach, should attack the centre of
with the enemy ; whiltt general Kray, croffiaft the rirer
fur- at the point nearest Geroldhoffen, should turn4)is
i we left wing.
lory. Soon after day briak, accordingly, General St.
into zsray advanced, and drove back the potts of the e
sns j nemy ;as however the other two columns had a
said considerable march to make, and met wish much un- j
• re- y*peftrd delay in the paflage of the river, he soon
with ffottnd himfelf engaged alone by very superior num- :
/bJts ; and was not only obliged to relinquish the
tbtl ;*aund he had gained, but had much difficulty in
fe iajj maintaining his original position.
do// At this gritical inlfcjit his Royal Highsefs feat 8
' orders to gen. WarteufJeben, re sard the river with? j
""'the whole of his c»va!ry ( a »d advance dire&ly sgaiult '
the left of the enemy.
This jhfliclous man«*uvre had the desired effect. £
Jourdan feeing himfelf rrenaced in the mo.l efiVn
tial paint of his pofitton, withdrew from his right "
' 0 thetroops with which he was jirefling Gen. Stcaray»
rorTI who thus gained time to rc-eftablifti himielf in his o
mer post. 5
ln The cavalry now charged the left tjf tbe Cnemy v
and drove it frnns its ground ; but. the enemy re
tiring behind the wood, the Audrians remained ex
posed to a fire of tmifquetry and grcipe, which obli- j ( .
°. Ur gcJ them to abandon the advantage they had gain
ed. A secOnd atterr pt of the fame nature had a si- j ,j
*9' milar fate ; and after fruitlcfs endeavors to draw the _
c enemy into the plaip, his Royal Highness resolved
tT t0 awalt arrival of Gen, Wartenfleben's |
,e without which- it waj evident thepofition of the e- I
" c nerr.y could forced. I E
r At length the infantry appeared advancing frem
Dettelbarh ; and general Srzaray moving forward Ps
at the fame lime, a combined attack wjs immediate-1
ly fotmed againfl the wood which covered the ene» I W
my s front. Eight battalions of grenadiers ad van-I
ies, ced for this purpose, with equal order and impetu- |
ihe ofity, r?gardlef» of ihe swarm of Tirailleurs who I ~
pal harrafLd them j they gained the wood without I j
firing a shot ; and in a few minutes drove the enemy 1
ke not only from theilcc, but from the heights beyond a
4, it. This advantage, and the appearance of Gen.
Kray's column on the right, decided the fortune •fj
the day. Jourdan made no attempt to recover the j
ite ground heiiad loft, bpt began hisietreat on every j —
Ir. point, this he for some time conduced with much
m regularity ; his cavalry preserving- considerable coun- I
■fe trnance, and forming repeatedly, ur.der proteftipn
-ig oftheir light artillery, to check the.pilrfuit of the j , ]
he A jillrians. At length however cont'inually harraf-1 ber
ftd by the hufT. rs, and overpowered by a prodigi J !
o- ous fire of artillery from the heiehts, the onfufion ~
to became general ; the ekvefiive fatieue of the Auf-1 A
trians, and the coming on of night, alone saved
e them from total deitrudmn. I e
The loss of the Au'trians on this occasion a- ( f
of mounts at tnw.ft to 800 men, araongil whom arc no I wi ' l
r- officers of diftiiittion ; that of the enemy is by far J —
of more considerable. Two thousand prisoner. are si
s ready bro' in, and the number of killed and wouo- I
y; ded cannot be smaller. One colour, fix pieces of **
>; cannon, and a great number of ammunition and I zctt
r'j Wsggfins have fallen into the hands of the C
, conquerors. [
p Ihe success which or) this occaCon has attended I
the Austrian a ms, is to be ascribed chiefly to the
!•' peifoaalconduft of his royal highrefsthe archduke. I
'« Present every where, whete the danger was the most J .
y prefiinjf, he animated the troops by his example, J
■e and preserved them in order by the coolncfs and
If quickness of his martruvres f and at length fefzed,
w ''. h in( Wi'f judgment, the true -point of attack
it which decukd the vi^ory,
>- The army palfed ,the night on the field of battle,
and the next day crolfing the Meyn ai 'different '
poinfs, tncamped near thi* place. I <
I have the honor to be, <cc.
e (Signed) HOB. ANSTRUTHER.
Wtlhclmjbadnear Hanau, Sept. 3d, 1796. ]
! In confluence of the late aaion*, the army «f J
e Jourdan is retreating in the most disorderly manner
e poffble, in different diredtions. About 3000 men
d P .^ f d thlS place flnce y morning ; almost
a all of them without arms, and dragoons and buffars
c on foot having loft their horfea. The peafaats have I
almost every where riftn upon them, and, when in
e imall numbers, either killed or disarmed and plun-|
. ,h ? m : A gwat many have passed Steinhrim,
t coming from Afchaffenburg, but the greater part I
of the army seems to be direSingits retreat by Fi-1
- eld l' l ° wards order to pass the Rhine, f 1
* l u ranc ' t^ort ' a "d eTfr y where in the neigh' I
. oorhood the enemy seem to tie prepariag for their | i
departure. They have again taken hostages from I
, ,everal P'icm belonging to the Elector of Menti. I |
| From the Aacus. j
j C Franjlattd f-om Dutch papers received if the Atnjler- I '
4am arrivals en Saturday. 1
' ' CASSEL, Sept. 6.
According to the most probable accounts ganeral 1
: Jourdan, with the French army of the Sambre and <v
Mculc, remained at Schwenfor*, j c
NEUWIED, Sept. 6. <
i efterday the division of gen. Pancet, which '
mained to invest Ehrenbreitftein, have marched to
: the Mem, and many more troops are on their march t
from the exterior of France to the kmc place— 5
Ihe pea fan ts in some of the villages of Franconia, sc
who had taken arms agamft the French, and made a J
common cause with the Auftiians have received at
their reward by the burning of several of their ril- «
lages. I 1
* 48
On Monday next will be Published,
A satirical POEM, CALLED j 66
He would be a Poet, ? 5 4 ;
Or, "> Nature will be Nature Ml •"
An heroic poem. ' I 0 8,
ATV ir T" CMb, °b '■> annexed,
A 1 hankfgiving Epiftk on Eledioneer- 8
ing Success, Frrn
Print s r ( GE k OI7FI ? Y TOUCHSTONE. ItBB, ,
IT 1 '" d >■' Mr. Benjimln
Oflfeber ac, m " n
J e°3 Ei
V*<pr ii. \mmm_
CstzETTt e» the virrrtD iTATts rtAaiNE list.
tre or
r riyer • *■'■«■> ■■■■ ■
rn |, ;s PfJILAPELPHIj, October «j.
i o. ARRIVED.
* Brig Fly, Hubber, tendon 2 «
had a c<lpl ' Hubbfr 4'. 4<l long
•hun- 30» f P°k e hr>> America, 34 from Liverpool
' s o( n " bound to Kenn«be> k, 18th, lat. 18, Irtn. -jo,
°" 1 56, spoke fchwoner Amelia frcm New-Havca
VVeft-lndiek, out JO days.
. In the Ffy came 9 pafTecgerr.
,y ,n One hviadrcd and forty ships, snows, briglr,
f >nt "'^°"" erg hare »f"*ed at the port of Fh.'ladel
witir ph '* two Weeks—.4B of which are
aii'll r " m
''' Ship Catharine, Starbuck Arrived at Dnhlin ia
ff eft 3S d »y« rrort « 'hi. port. Ship Hebe, Cook, and
•ffen- br, f Fa,r Hfhr ' Eld ridge, both from Philadelphi? k
r j ht arearrjff4*t Amflerdam.
aray. . , Oflober*!.
~r B ,i e 5 S^t h 4 Litt r' *
; Elista, Smith, s ,. Üb« \l
ohli r n homas, capt. Parday, from Liverpool,
°.ii: JLorn Me'., J.
'a ft- o Ut , 25 ° ' Sr - *4» lat
>th hS-lqng. 10.
lived T n . . ' . 'JV!
imn, I J 11 " Arrived,
,e c * IT\ y \ Ca f* a i J Rubber, from Ltndon,
Double racked, Blrown Stout Porter
Frem in '
-'<1 Pal T g ft C c o a^' , , 4 tWt - kc «'' .»
iate- I Copperis in hoglhcads.
ene- Whiting scc. Fot Sale ij
Mn " Peter Blivlt.
ei . u " I Prober »j.
- Landed this Day, ""
emy At Mort * n ' ! lVhar f> f"»> the brig Fame, Captain.
j| , Kti ox f
jen. quantity of Barbadoes Runi & Sugar.
. s [ j Fsr Sale hy
the , Kearny IVbarton.
rery J(>
«ch NANKEENS
I?"" I °f the quality,. FOR SALE *R7~,
\TI v . R]x and JAS. POTTER.
tne _ For any quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, aHi
raf-1 beral credit will be given It a- r p
'g>- J September ij. ' ( j.
s° n I — •
>us- A C t °' iE COACH, whKi ha. run about j monthj,
ved r "pair of brown, able-bodied bouses, for iaie
Street tcrm '- A r p, r at No " fp U j. THM-
Ia- j ps. The eoach i« more panic.l.rly C.'culaied for the
n " "'SSI?? ' V " ,g '"« e e'-t* =r«J Woctian blind,"
far J ~ diw
1,1 W AN l S ' sitUation a » CLERK, in & mercantile honfi
l, °- I m !Lj m ' h ". C!, T' a y°ung man who cin be well recom'-
I mended, he IS well acquainted with boak-keeping
°! writ " » Enquire of the editor of tbe' ct
inn I zetteof tjx United States. —
the I O&obir 23.
fed J '" T '/ and Blank, in th, tCa/hmgtm
he J Lottery Nt. 2.
Ite. I 30th Dty'f Drawing, OS. ty
oft M IM,. f . zw,. M.
,le, 1010, , i63i ff-f"
"d JK "°3« ' M to
•d I i-a® 1 *• Set
>.' 4 I •*4' : 9 '9 (4,7 »
ck 7,6 856 .» II *
I o' 9 9 « 959 s.a
le, I 43 ,J " 6 '» , 3'B» L
' I IJO* t4 jc 4*®
■nt j 89 4 4 Jfii M '•
3.89 .0 a $ 4....
ft- 93? " *7,1 "
P - ,S ° ' «'<•
• f A 4 mS z F 5
: s: % i. 3 -
Jft 6,9 •• M 4 4. ™ «««3 -
,r ' 3°7S It'i 19699 * 6 « 8
ve >•> «• 95? %°s*j
q $ - sf -5 •" "B -
dJ" ;;s» •• J*
c - 2% ?A "* '59 «.
3,3 •■•j® l a«• ifs
ir 88. .. 697 , 5 , 7 °S Jf| ,c
m I ®4®* ** 800 •• 77c ...
Ba jl IO *3* S *
»j« «• «ii 47 is ge.J, "
»?• *** 9'i «•
r- "* «« 37'«»
j Jill D.y'j Drawing— Monday, OSkobcr if.
al 37529 a Prixe ,f Dollar.,
f*
671 ip\ $.0 v 3% ss«.i»
f lo'e M9t 73i 9*«
h° 'i;;" 5
■ - « ««
»s'»° •• ~;s
il «'.6 '"-n ■» «=>
674 "4>73 S3S '*
I 745 90® »8«69 to aiSij,
: *687* 10 9>4
•:s "a «'• "
6643 SMa6 < 6t8 4
7457 8 3 9 S , 0 31 |H 10 «•
J 1© 1907 i „ AAA j 1 10
» 6«s ofg 33 |'' 99°
Bc6 t« : 6 , .„ 49' 22 7
1 ao«j . 9 *2 408 ,0
68, I°' 463
o J 3672 a ir>
3 10 Bjo 10 37163 3THIS PAT PUBLISHED, ;| JC
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefout-ftreet, i
(Price I» 1-2 Cents) I H&ve I
The President's Address
T» the People of the United States, , ge»er
"Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
at the expiiatibn of the prefcat couftitutional term ei
presidency. ; Rofc
September Jo. a FLA]
Watson's Answer taGiBBOK. , hai
irvlbi
JUST RECEIVED, IN^'
And for faie by J. OfcMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftriet, c<jm
Apology for Christianity, I ding Tl
In a ferte' of Letters, (tddrejfed to Septi
Edward Gibbon,
"Author of the Hiitory of the Decline and Fall of tie
Roman Empire;
Br R- WATSON, D. ». F. K. s. Eifhop of Landiff. "C'OR
(Price 75 cents bound ) f do
Wktfoirs Answer to Paine, <*ntfr<
To be h*d at the f:ime plate. 1
The enemies of Rih&ion are awake I Let not' her *
friends sleep. ~
Sept. 1. mw&ftf t %
Philip Nicklin & Co. j*
HAVE FOR SALE, io co
Souchong >. 5
Hyson Skin '■/ . —<—
. Young Hyson FRESK TEAS 133*
Hyson and \ 4018
: Imperial ; — 1
*' "Yellow Narifceens " 6350
China Ware, assorted in Boxes and Gheftt By
Quickfilyer _ _ in 8
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in erfon
forug..
London Market 3 MADEIRA WINE tores
London particular >in pipes, hogfteads, & m «* c
.New-York Market } quarter calks m "J 1
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogfi«eads
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sad Canvas No. x a 8
Lead In Iheets _ ct , m
3 Calks of Cutlery affortecl
A few chcfts of Mai.r.heitcr Goods,
f&i, eords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black.fewing-'filks
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-rom.
Nails alTorted in calks 1
•yuly iS
70,000 Pieces Nankeens, j^:
Of the befi quality and on reafor.a&le terms,
iok SA£K BV a
tPhilip Nicklin & Co> 01
Autptft t6. daily
For' Bale, • £"; (
A Three-story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, In Chefnut ir( ; ,
street, between Front Mid Second ftraets, in which -j-
Messrs. lames Calbraith & Co. have for many (and of F
Bow do) carried on bofineft. w j[]
Foffeffion wijl b« given in one month, or sooner. G
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or .v-
HfcCTOR CALBRAITH. ( "
April X,. L_
A Ma.nufadory FOR SALE. |P™
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, fuutte accc
in a convenient part of the city ; the wopks dlmoft new,
on an entirely original conftruflion, and built of the b«ft
niatCrials, and may be fel to work immediately. Perfoils *y
who with to purchase, arc requested to apply at No. 273, a ~ _
Suuth Second Stteet.
' "" September 13. „ ttf tf the
-—— y — reqi
Brokers Omce, and i
COMMISSION STORE. Igg!
Hoi 6j S*uth Third street, opposite the national new J l ; n
C jA IRAUNCFS and JOHN VAN REED, fen
u hawe entered into co-partnerfhtp, under the firm of If ;n , T
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
C<»»veyaiicerj and CommiHion merchants. They buy and
fell on commission every fpeeies of stock, nbtes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &C.
Money procured on depoflts, &c. fee. all kinds e r "K
writings in the rt>!iveyaf>ciO£ line, done with neatness and J.
iifpatch; accounts adjiifted, and books fettled, in the )of
. »ioft correct manner. Constant attendance will be given. ! per
They solicit a fliare of the public favor ; they are deter- 1
Blined to endeavour to deserve it. 18
N. B. The titmoft a A
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, fuj
JOHN VA'N REED. pu
Wijlad. August 47. 1790- m&wtf 1 pai
Trcafury Department, i I
September zB, 1796. j"
NOTICE is hereby given, thit proposals will be re- "
ceived at the oflke of the Secretary of the Treatury | "
until the expiration of the firft day of "MaJ-ch rlext en- 1 "
fulng, for thefupply of all rations \#Ktch may he required j "
'for the use of the United, States, from the 'firft. day of "
jrane, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both "
riays inelufive, at the places and within tne diftrids lure- "
after mentioned, vii'. At Ofwego; at Niagira ; at "
Pjsfque lfle; at Sandu&y Lake, and on Sandulky "
River ; at Detroitat Michilimackinic; at Fort-Frank- "
lin; at Kttfburgh ; at Cincinnati; at ForfHamilton j "
at Fort Et. Clair; at Foi't-Jw-fifrfon; at Grenviile; at ''
Picqiie Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayjle; at Fort Dcfiance j at any pdace- below Fort Tt
•Defiance on the Miami River to La&c Eric; at Fort m
Steuben ; at For; M; at any place from Fort MafTac fc
to the foutk boundary of the United States oh the river pi
'Miflifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ou id tan on. ci
If fuppliej shall be required for any polls or places riot is
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies fball be ftlr- %
nilhcd at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls beft!re recited, or as maj* be hereafter agreed on 7
between the United States and the Contractor.
The r'afions to be fdpplied are to confiil of the fol
lowing articles, viz. /,
One pc'uajl two ounces of bread or flotir.
One pound fwo Otuiecs of beef, Or fourteen duncel of fl
pork or bacoii. t
■Half a gill of rurij, hrantJy rr whiskey. t
One quart and half a pint of fait."} , t
85?»."ysr :
Ore pound of Candles, j 1
The rations are to be furrifhed in such quantities, as that c
there Iball at all times Juriug the said term, be Pj&cient /
- for the consumption of the troops at MichUimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, -and Ofwrgo, far the term of fix month# in
advance, and at each ot the other posts, fo*the term of
at least three'months in advance, in good shh wholesome
provifions,iffhc Tame &au"be required. It is to be un
derload, that the isto be at therjt«ente and
Ti(k of ifftiirgthe fuppliss <o the troops at each post, and
that all lofles fultained By the depredations of an enemy, or 1
Yy means'of the troops of the United States, ihall be paid
for at the price of the articl.s captnred or destroyed, on
the depo(jtions of two or more persons of creditaible cha
radters, and the'ccrtificatc ot a commifltoncd officer, af
certainiug the circumstances of the loss, and the aniouut
of ths at ticks fin which compensation (hall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
( -Secretary of the Treasury.
I
I JOHN MILLER, Jun, fe Co.
No. 8, CHESN,UT STREET,
1 Have Imported in the late vessels from Europf> occ.
i . AND HAVE bQR SALE, B r
A general afiortment of GOODS, to the fca.on
Amongst which are, I
C T>ROAD and narrow CLOTHS, , AC
JD Plain and twill'd COATINGS, LAN(rn
Rose striped a*d point BLANKEI*S, one ina
FLANNELS and BAISES, manent
HATS alTorted in cases, , a Profs
| ' IRISH LINENS, -I
INDIA GOODS, generally, , Oifto
t A Consigned Invoice of RV,
Comprising a capitalaffortnwinto open auore—inclWr »
. ding Thirty Catfm of NAILS. This invoice will be lol<\ - 11,
entire on very advantageous terms.
September 10. .
a£ Lottery
ff. t-'OR raising fixthoufand fix hundred and Cxty-fevcn ,
r dollars and fifty cents, by a dedudtion of fifteen per
cent frdm the r-rizee, aitd not two blanks to a prus. viz TH
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000 g r ivec
I tooo 1000 and ac
Hr t 500 J- 00 phlet '
5 ioo .city, i
— 10 ISO ICO ° Jul'
jo <95° —
Zl '-i
zoao lo .ipoo
5 Last 'dwWE tiwubers ef 1000 doliars each, <000 j
1331 Prizes. 44,4J0 A 1
4018 Blanks. 1° a«i
floor, ]
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,fi° l,oufe,
By order of the Directors of the Society for eltabhm
ing Uiciul Manufactures, the foperiutendants of the Pat- ot hc r f
in erlon Lottery hive requested the Managers to offer the JIK I v,
forgoing S.heme to the public, and have dircfted them otl ma
to refund the riioney to those persons who have purchaled wiilb
& in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets Notts
in this Lattery. , , ; u
The lottery his iSually colr.menced dfawmg, and will
continue tintilfitiilhed. A lift of the and PnZcs |
may be fcen at thcofficc oi William Blfrcltburn, No. 64
south Seeotid street, who will give iuformatian whei etitt
ets may be procured. iVI
. , Dated this 17th day nf June, 1796. w;)r
jck " y. N- GUMMING, 7. VV X
JACOB R. KARDENBERG, >■ Mafiigets.
JONATHAN RHEA, 3 Stat£l
1 . . . dtfe ° r Sef
Samuel Rjchardet,
■ o ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen Th
£v Merchant*, that he has this da'/ openers the CITY
TAVERK andIvIERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the pr
city of Philadelrhia. warr
* The Sttbfcription Ro i oni will be furr.ilhed with au the ■ q
daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-"\ork, Bos- „<
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial citirt of Europe—They will be regularly filed
:fnut md none permitted to be taken away on any account. At .
rhich Tea> Co ff ce> Spupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
( 11,(1 of French Liquors; together with the ulual refrefiitiicuts,
will at all tiihes be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with r^ K
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors iromLondon and other breweries. |
§ The Larder will befupplied with the pruhe and earliell
I produ&ior.s of the Season. s um .
Large and fnaall Parties, or Angle Gentlemen, may be rtm(
ltutte accommodated With Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
r ' cw ( : ; hcmrs most conv nient to thimfelves—a cold Collation is <ui.
-rfon- rsgulariy kept for couvenieticy, -the till of Fare to be had
"j,, at tho bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniftied, aao
tf the tftnioft attention paid to cleanlinefb, and every other
requilite. _ ;
SaUuel RieHAßDET\vill behappyto receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
Batik. ' himfelf that nothing on his part (hall be wanting to pre- .■, ,
.EED, serve that patronage with Wfciah"he has Veen so diftinguilh- v
■m of h ingly honored.
okers, PHKadelphia, April 19. ! mwf
ly and ■ ;
hand, Treifury of the United States.
ads c r "KTOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
:fs and IN may be Creditors of the United Stales, for any funis
in the of the Fwiu.d C.it, or Siocl, baring a fttfenl infr,jl v/fx
given. ! per centum per ennurrt. -.
deter- 1 ift, Thri purfuan; to an A<st of Congress passed on the
aßth day of April, 1796, intitledan ait in addition to an
' aA, intituled " Au a<St making fuither provifmn for the
ES, support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the said debt or stock will be re-imburfed and
tf 1 paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends 1
" ! " to be made on the'lall days of March, June and Septenv
i " ber for theprefe'ntyear, andfrOtti theyear onethoufasd T
]" seven hundred arid ninety-seven, to the year one thou- 2'.
be re- ' " sand eight hundred &. eighteen ioclu&ve,at the rate of -
reatury j " one and one half per cetrtum flpon the original capital. J
ext en- " Secondly, by dividends to be matk on the last day Of —
tquired |" December for the present year, and from the year one 1
day of : " thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year Tic
5, both " one thousand eight hundred and feveuteen inelufive, at Cid
s " the rate of tbree and one half per centum upon the ori- j
ra ; at " ginal capital; and by 4 dividend to be male on the last ar
ndufky day of December, in the year one thoojind eight hun- all]
Frank- " dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then adc
nikon } " quate, according to the cotitrad, for. the final redenip- Vat
lie; at il tion of the farfftock."
ms; at ad. All dlftindion between payments on account ef fro
w Fort TnStrtfl and Principal being thus aboliltad by the eftabiitti- it.i
at Fort ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement above de- as
MafTac scribed, it his becfltne neceifarv to vary accordingly the the
te river powers of attorney for receiving dividends-; the publid th<
creditors will therefore observe that the following form A
ices riot is for all powers of attpjifJy which may bo thi
be far- granted alter the due promulgation ot this notice, tiz. wi
d at the ° KNOW ALL MEN Br THESE PRESENTS, that Ui
reed on / • of
, do make, conjiitutc and appoint 1°
the fcl- r* my true andllivfitl At
tortey, fjrme, andin fry name, to rbitw tlx dividends iljfooh are, °u
or jLll 111 guarding it lav;, on ibt (hei# defcribitlg the
of stock) finding in my name in the books of (here defcribing«ihe th
books of the Tieafury or the Commiffior.er of Loans, th
the flork is credited) from (here infirt the com- ' n
- mencemeni and expiration of time for which the gpwer of
1 fiti"!i» artjOrtHiy it tO"cb»tinOe) vAfb poti.tr afo an attorney or attar- ir
nies under hint, for that purpuft to make andfubjiitute, and to do all ''t
laivful acts rcqjifttefor effecting theprentifej, hereby ratifying and m
s, asthat conjtrming ail that my said Attorney cr bufsJtituU,jZdll lawful
fj&cicnt ly do, b'i virtue hereof. tl
nac, De- In iVitnefs hereof, I Lave hereunto Jk my Haxi and Seal the H
lonth's in day of in tie -:ut . a
term of Sealed and Delivered x b
holefome I tn fl
to be un- BE IT KNOIVN, that oh the 1 cj' I
»ence and efore me personally came
post, and within named and iulnoiulc4gcd the ahtve Utter of atiorniy to be C
-near/, or Isa QC } and J.mj. h
li be paid J n tejlimwy, •whereof 1 have hereunto set my Han i end affix- d
"oycG, on ed Seal toe day and \aar lap afohjaid. C
table cha- Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen- t
jfliccr, as- tieth day ps July 1796, pursuant to dirc&ions.
e amount from the Secretary of the Trcafury
SASIUEL MEREDITH, ]
Ireofurer of the, United States. C
reifury. J v l y & ,ti J. (
i *
Sheridan's Dictionary, •'
THB SIXTH _fqir/ov.
Is this Day PublHhed, . ;n No „
Br W. TOUNC-, M I'LL sJS SCIv,
Cerirtr of Second a»d Chefnnt ftteets,
In one large Z-vV- ■volume, price 3
A COMPLETE DICTIONARY of the EKOUiH
1 LANGUAGE. both with regard to found and cicam.ig,
one red in objefl '■( which is to cftabjilh i, plain «">'!*£;
manent Standard of Pronunciation. To which 15 prefixed, (
a Prol'edial Grammar.
Br THOMAS SIJERID.INy A. M.
Oitober 14. . . tt r s
' plans of the city of Philadelphia, , he
Wuding the Northern Liberties and dillria of feffi
SOUTHWARK, p"
' . Publilhed, and fold by
BENJAMIN davies,
1 3No. 68, High street, - 3
r (Price one dollar.) . 4
THIS plan is 46 inches square, and has been cn to
» graved by one of the firft artists in the city, from a lave 39
3 and accurate ftirvey. Purchalers are entitled t» a pam-
3 phlet with each plan, giving » feme account 0t the
J citv, its population,'trade, government, &c. x
0 , I-
® FOR SAL E. •
1 A PLANTATION,
~ a fctf'JT 13. miles from this City, (Uuate in Abii.g-
Q /V ton Townftip, Montgomery-County i containing
■to ««, a new ftbile house, two ft.ties high, » looms oil a
floor, tire places in each, a ilone kitchen and (tone fpnng
0 liaufe, over »n cJtcellent spring of water,* barn, (tablet,
Iheds, barrcclcs, &c. A large apple oichaid, and a varietyol h'>
other fruit, about 12 acres of good ificadow well \' ck "
«= jn d wood futricicot for fire,and fencing the place. rolloHi- JJrav.
m on may be had the ift of Ap, il next. Pmperty in thi. c*T p., 01
;d will be taken in exchang", or MORRIS and 1« I,
ts Notes in payment. Enquire at N0..37, Arch-otteet. Jvfcl
Philadelphia, September 13, >796. J£2L J am
c! For Sale, -
' 4 A Complete Font of Brevier,
L " 17 Htirelv ««•» /and yet unopened. The weight of this . r;
Xli font is about 312 lb. It is froift the Poundery ot a ij^ v
Wilson & Sons, Glasgow, and will be told at colt & enarges. ing Q
, Also for Sale, a pair of fcuper Royal Chafes. are r
Enquire at the Office of the Gaictte of the Uiittd uria]
States, 119 Chefnut-ftreet. Oi
— September 4,7, , """ '
_ —■—>■>. - —— y
YVa&ingtoti Lottery.
f" The 38th and 31ft Days Drawing are arrived at thi
. office No. 147, Chefnut-'ftrett. \\l
hc Prizes in the above Lottery are cachanged for. tickets
. warranted undrawn. , aCa
7 '■ torn,
to BE SOL»,
C At No. 12S, Iforth Second-Street, and by fever al oj
tt y the Apothecaries in this City.
Its TRANSFERS of 1 the right to remove pains and inflamms
-*■ tions from the human b®dy, asfecured to Dr. I.LISHA
: t h PERKINS, by patent, with inflrumenu and diteft ions ne
ccfl'ary for the practice. This mode of treatment is particu
-1 Ull y r clievmg pains in the head, lace, teeth, brealt,
• .y ' fide* stomach, back, rheumatisms, reccnt gouts, &c. &c.
the utility •* this practice, it is not pre
. fumed but theicf are cases in which this icd dvciy 6thei
remedy may fumctimes tail.
»at June I,
1 is - y . —— — —
ha ' J City cf Waftiington.
and "» '' r A w C
!ier SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No.Tl,
ant , FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE Ps
FEDERAL CITY. del a
'S! . A magnificent ) 40,000 dollars, & 7 #0 notl
• iiwslßng-houfe, 5 cajh 30,000, arc > 0
1 1 ditto 15,000 & cacti 45,000 40,000 d^ a 1
f 1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000 thc
1 ditto 10,000 & cash tc.ooo . so,ooo
'1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5)00(5 10,000
or I tjft! prize of 10,000
urns 4 do. 5 ,000 each, are • 10,000
r J* x 10 do. i : % 0 ■ • So,ooo
'io do. 500 • - 10,000
00 do. ico - - 10,000 _
0 1" soo d» *JQ - - 10,000
400 do. 4j - - 10,000
1,060 do. 40 • 40,000
, JK I, 15,000 do. JO • - 150,000
:snv- ————— ..
fasd "t« ) 739 Pnzes. tn «
hou- 33.»6i Blanks'.
,ital. 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Bolkii, 400,000
y a ;' ci
■ one N. B. To favour thufe who may take a quantity of
year Tickets,the priie of 40,000 dofterswillhethe Ln»T drawn 01
u, at ticket, and the 30,000 the last but' out:
: ori- And approved notes, fecuting payment in either mor.«y
c kit or prizes, in tei days after drawing, will be received for
hun- ally number not Ui's than jo'tickets, el
atle- This.Lottcry "a ill afford an elegant specimen of c .
cmp- Vate buildings to t:a ereiled in the City of Washington— f
Two beautiful'de'jgns are alriady ftlftSed for the entire ? '
lit ct fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings tDI "
biilh- it.ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
s de- as soon as fioflible after this lottery Is fold, and to convey ]
f the them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in "
mblit the mannerdefcribed iti the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
form A nett deduction of tivf per cent, will he made to defray
ly be the ucceffary expenses of printing, &c. and the furphis
tiz. will be made a part of the fund l'.ittcded for the National f
I, tint Ueiverfity, to be ere<Red within the city of Waihington. V
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets arc 7
fold off.—The ivoney priacs. will be payable in thirty days ne
1 / At- *'ter it is finifliad ; and any prizes for which fortunate. 45
>4 are, numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the !ai
ng the drawing is Clalsd, are to be confidercd as given towards on
lgUhe l he fur.«i for the Univerlity ;it being determined to fettle 011
oans, - the whole bufiaefc in a year from the ending of the draw- of
com- i n g> and to take up the bonds given as security. v au
,ver of rhc real fccurities given for the payment of tKePrizes, lp
Hilar- are held by the Prefidetit and two Diredtors of the Bank es
>do all of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a- ur
71g and mount of the lottery. v of
dviful- The twenty tovrr gentlemen who by ftppoiutmsnt of vt
the late Commit Goners a&ilfed in the management of the
itvl the Hotel Lottery are requefled to undertake this arduous talk ci
a second time on behalf ef the public ; a fufiicieet num vl
ber of these hating kindly accepted, it is hoped that the c<
friends to a National UniVersity and the other federal ob
jects may continue to favor the detign. J
By accounts received from the difterent* parts of the
ly it, ic Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are assured that the
1 d affix- driving will fpledily coif.meiwe , and that the care and *
i. caution unavoidably neceflary to insure a fafc difpoLU oi •
i twen- the tickets, has rendered tlie ltvor' fufptufion indifpeni'able. t
edions. &4MUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; cf
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilmin, Boston : '
fftito. of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard W«llf,
IJ. Cooper's berry. ca
' "Wniverfity of Pennsylvania,
OP.ober 5, 1796.
The Medical Le&ures will commence the Erst Monda
in November. MW3W
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
Stuth SecondJlreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For riififig Sixty Thousand Dollars, agieiably to an Aft of
the Legislature of PennlJvasia, faffed during the Iji*
feflian, for building a i>to«e Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Ridding, in the County c.
Berks. Dolljrr
1 Crize of so 00a Dollars - so,e;-*>
t do. of 10,000 do. • . 10, Co,
3 do. ef 5,4.00 do. - . - 15 .' so
4 do, of 2,000 do. 'fc - B,oco
80 do, of ijQoo do, . e 0,000
; 39 do. of 500 do. . .4 ig-joa
80 do. of 200 do. . . . 16,009
, do. of ido do. - 2c/
300 do. of jo do. . 15,000
1 do. of £00 to be paid the pofleC- )
lor as the firlt drawn no. J
5 <Jo. of 3,000 do. to be paid podeflTors >
of the five lalt drawn iios $ >s:°°®
j 5,400 do. of «5 do. : . 141,000
Prizes 1300,000
r ftfcllks — 1
a '
j, 30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
AH (hall be paid fifteen da\ s "f'er the dividing is
I finifiicd, upon the demand of a poflefi >r of a fortunate
, ticket, fulled to a deduction of tv.cn'.y per cei.t. The
- Drawing .will commence as foonas the Tickets are difpoft'ii
y of, or perhapsfooner. of which public notice will begiveu,
j Philip Miller, Ptfer Kerjhner, William IVitman,
Hitf.cr, Jmucs Ditruer, 'J 60mas Dundas,
- James May, John Otto, Jbhn Keim, bantu Crat£\
ScbaJliatrMilkr, Commissioners.
Reading, May the g:h, 1595. >
'* Tickets in tkcCanal Lottery, No. 1, to be had at the
above office, where the earliefl iniormation of the draw- f j
'• ing of the Wafilington No. a, and Pattcrfon Lr.ttery'i,
are received, -andchetk biteks for examination and regtf«
tering are kept.
j; Q&ober 7. law tf
"* Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
n°. 1.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorif«<i
ia the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hnndred, and fifty dollars, for'the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, Trow th P«:
- toma: to theEaftern Branch Haruour. r
i The following i# the SCHEME of No. 1.
Viz -T Prizetoi ao.ooo dollars, 2c,00a
■J x ditto 10,000 1 10,000
V 6 ditto 1,000 6,005
Jj* ;iO ditto 420 , i
o" ao ditto uo 2jooo
is ditto JO 1,75®
e _ 57S° d ' tto 11 69,0^3
, ei ■ To be raifnj (or thi Canal,
,5850 Prizes, 1 yjpoo
- '11650 Blanks, not two tot prize.
17500 Tickets, atTcn Dollar*, - 175,00s
£js* The Qitnmiflioners hav# taken the Securilie* re
J quired by the aft for the punctual payment of
' the prizes.
The drawing ef tins Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of whidh timely
notice will be given.
Such prices as are not demanded in fix months after'th«
drawing is Sniffled, flial! be corifidered.as relinquished for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.,,
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of IX
LEWIS DBIiLOiS,
GEOUGE WALKER, .
Wm. M. DUINCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Feb. 11. $
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 1, for sale—i
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and rejiftering, for
the City of Washington, No. 1, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets arc to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
, r tickets. A complete lift of all tilt prizes in the late Ncw-
WB Pert Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fuhferiber solicits the application of the pnhtie
and his friends, who wilh to purehafe or fell Batik Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houf«, Lands,
• &c. or to obtain money on deposit of property
*,'* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dolkrs each, which will be drawn early in
n ' TS the Spring,
ng„ b , Wm. Blackburn.
vey Phrladclniiia, Ausufl 18, 17^6.
- n — — -
ery . F 0 R 6 A L ii, j
A. very Valuable Eitate, •
anal /CALLED ¥W IT TENH AM, situate in thdL
in. t«wnlhip of Upper Derby, andcountyof Delaware^
are 7 1-2, miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
iays new Weilernroad: containing a 3©▼-res bfK xcelJent l an^» r '*
nate. 45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 oi prime wood
the Iwid, and the reii arable of tha f:rft quality, lhei c are
ar-ds or thepremife6agood two story brick houle, with 4 rooms
ettle on a floor, aijd cellars under the whole, with a pti^lp-werl
:a\v- of excellent water in front; a large frame Win, liajkb,
and other convenient biiiidings ; a smoke-house and itone^
izes, fpring-lioufe ; two good apple orchards, and one of peaui- #
sank cs. The fields are allin clover, immediately
e a- under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of waterin each of them, whick renders it peculiarly con
nt of venient for grazing. .
F the The iituation is pleasant and healthy, and from the m£h
5 talk, cultivation s os the land, the good neighbourhood, and tn«
uum vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a P
: the country feat.
dob- The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman r
decealed 3 an 4 offered for falc by
f the Mordecai Lewis,
fthe Oa. 9. tt&l' Surviving Executor.
•e and ; 1 ■... ——-
Cal oi — -
labie. PRINTED BY JOgN FENNO,
a ; cf NO. 11 9
CH ESK VT-*TREET.
[Price Eight DeKars p«r toM'i