? :' : N - ' x - ' ' >; i ' V • . s, ; V; . m
. - grrg ■ 25* . . ' ' ; . ' - • - . ... r,
• " ' * ' ' f , • , , ■ ' . ... . . ' -
oftbc UlliteXJ States, <&• Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
NUMBS* 1319.] ' ' WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 30. plume X,
. 1 —— ■ WT « r rt mn r* A rn T XT
ilSgjSr* f° r Sale or Charter,
Brig Lady Wajhington,
Built in New-England in 179°'
completely repaired the present year; (he is 133 to" 8
burthen; has flowed 515 hhds. of feed, and u.oooM. I
staves, and is now in good order to perform an Europein
voyage with little expense. For particulars and terms
»f payment apply to the matter on board, or to
Samuel Coates,
No,. 81, South Front-street.
Also, tm bnarrtfaul wffeh for sale.
Forty hogsheads Newbury Rum.
November aa. *
For Newport and Provi
dence,
The remarkably fad failing
NEIV SLOOP, EAGLE,
J»hn Earl, jun. matter.
Will take lreight low, and has elegant accommoda
tions for paffcngcrs. Apply on board at Chefnut-ttreet
wharf, or to
Joftph Anthony and Lo.
Nov. H6 - -
For Freight or Charter
I T° Europe or the W.lndies,
Tht new Brig FAIR AMERICAN,
Richard Calley, Matter; burthen 145 tons; has
good accommodations, and is now ready to receive a
cargo: —apply to the Captain on board, firft wharf
above the Still-Mouse, Swuthwark, or to
Jfaac Harvey, jun.
Who has now for sale, at hi« store, No. 5, South
> 82* UW»ter-ftreet,
A quantity of "Clynrne and Trinidad Cotton
Spanilh Soal Leather
And a parcel of Carolina Rice, in whole and half
lierces. nth mo. daw
' For Madeira,
Tie Jhip Concord,
Capt. John Thomson. For freight
SeiSSiitfiesa*oor palfage apply on board, or to
Peter Blight ;
Who has for fait, a quantity of
Brandy, in pipes
Whiting and Copperas, in hogsheads
Old Hock, in cases
Dutch Cream-Cheese, in boxei
Window Glaf«
Empty Gin-Cases
Glass Ware, in boxes
flamters' Colours, ground in oil
Sweet Oil, in cases of a dozen bettles eaeh
Hazlenuts, in fatks. Nov. 11. dim
POR LONDON,
lliiv r^^ie ca P ,ta ' CERES,
T° fail soon :—For freight or passage
SSSSSaPfespp'y-** DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
yohn Vaughan,
September 10. Front-street.
~FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MARY, j
SAMUEL PARKER, Maiter,
-v"; w0 hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, she will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as ?bove.
Oilober 31.' d
Just arrived, and will this day be lan
ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at Ghefnut j
street wharf. j
25 Tons beji Russia Clean HEMP,
$6 Ton* old Sable flat 1 KO&,
200 Coils best Ruffta CORDAGE, afTorted fires,
400 Pteecs brown UuflTn SHEETINGS,
100 Bolis Ru{fi - DUCK,
. 240 Piece* Ravens do ]
so Half down feather beds, and i
A few pieces afforded DM PER. <
Fnfi SALE BY i
Joseph Anthony and Co. 1
KThe above mentioned BRIG
f " '* a few ays ' **'" freight on
jjfefT m "^ e >,e tcrm ' for Boston or Salem, for
■■■■ ■ [iaiMr- Which or passage. apply on board or at above
( ■.: kit ''. j
For Charter,
jfla The Ship JOHN BULKELY, \
•_ ,-3C.j AvEEs Stockley, Matter.
.^ n excellent live-oak and cedar built
a ' 3out 3°oo barrels burthen.—Ap-
JeJfe & Robert Wain.
Nov. 1
— (
For London, <
fo'P William Penn, ■
JoCah, matter. Will fail with all !
speed. For freight or paffaee
apply to the Captain on board, or to
Jeffe and Robert Wain. !
November 10, 1796. j .
For Liverpool, J
The Ship DO MI NICK TERRr, 1
Jacob Dkhart, Matter.
a part of her cargo engaged.— J
For freight or pafTage apply to the mas
ter on board, atthewhar of the fub
faribers, or JESSE & ROBERT WALN. ,
Nov. 7. d
THE Partnership of JONATHAN HARVEY & Co; 1
being this day Diflolved by mutual coni'ent, those indebt
ed to said firm arc requelled to make fpefdy payment to
Jonathan Harvey, who is authorized to receive the fame,
and those wh« have any,demands will please to bring in
their actoants to him for settlement
c ihe Bujinejs laill be Continued
By Jonathan Harvey,
AT BIS STORK NO. 106, S. FRONT-STREET;
W'lf'e he has for Sale,
A general affortraent of Dry Goods, j.
Isovcuwct 14, 1796. $im a
1 ♦
CSsL For Sligo and Killibegs,
' -A mertcan Ship Nancy,
l Cuthbert Riggs, master.
_ Will fail with all convenient speed. For
. freight oc passage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunk» Printed Cottons, well aflbrtetl
3 Baits Irish Flannels, and a boxes Linens
15 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine s Indigo RyfTu M :t>.
Alio,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
.OATMEAL, &c.
November xi, 1796, mwftf
FOR CHARTER,
1- tA| , The fine Philadelphia, cedar and lit?
WSm*k Shi P FAVORITE,
John Thompson, Matter.
Burthen by register three hundred and ten tons, about one
1 year old, completely fitted pnd just coppered, is now
ready to receive a cargo and proceed to any part of the
world. She is a fail failing yeffel, and stands A. N. at
Lloyds.
Also, the fine Philadelphia, cedar and
IVfflk live oak built
KggiShip AMIABLE,
, Dan. C. T'lUinghafi, Majlcr.
j Burthen by register two hundred and
a fifty-three tons, just graved. She is fonr years old, and
f stands A. N at LUyds.
Thole (hips are deemed equal to any out of the port of
Philadelphia, being fitted in the best manner, and com
manded by experienced, sober, steady men. For terifis
1 apply to JEREMIAH WARDER,
No. iz, North Third-street.
Ncvembw 89. eoiw
f 10 hogfheadi St. Croix Rtfm,
5 Pipes Vinegar,
For Sale, by
Kzekiel Hall,
No. 2o y Penn Street.
Nov. J. '
Just Arrived,
In the brigi Twins and Rambler, a quantity of
Choice St. Croix SUGAR and RUM,
and about
150,000 Weight of Fine Green COFFEE.
For Sale tiy
"James Tard.
November 24. dx
An interejling Novel.
, THIS DAY it publiflied, by Thomas Bradford,
Ne. 8, South Front-street,
The.
Castles of Athlen and Dijnbargne.
A Highland llory.
For justice bares the arm of Cod,
And thejrafp'd vengeance only waits hit'nod.
—« — TBy XJmrttwrtifiV
Authoress of the Romance of the Forefl, Mysteries of
Udolpho, &c.
T. Bradford has lately publilhed—Romance ofthe
Eoreft, Royal Captivts, Ccjunt 1 Roderic's CaftU, Mar
tin's Law of Nations, Hunter on the Blood, &c.
Nov. 29. 1 d3t
' This Day is Publiflied,
(By WILLIAM COBBETT, opposite Christ Church)
The Gros Moufqueton Diplomatique j
OR,
Diplomatic Blunderbuss :
Containing Citizen Adet's Notes to the Secretary of
f State,, as also his Cockade Proclamation; with a preface.
By PETER PORCUPINE. Nov. 28 'i t
Just Publiflied,
By WILLIAM COBBETT, opposite ChrifttChurch,
The History of Jacobinism,
Its crinaes, cruelties and perfidies: comprifiugan enquiry
into the manner of dilfeminating, under the appcaranoe
of philosophy and virtue, principles wliich are equally
subversive of order, virtue, religion, liberty and happi
ness. By William Piayfair, author of the Commercial
and Political Atlas, &c. With an appendix, by Peter
Porcupine. Containing a
r Hilloryof the American Jacobins, commonly de*
: ' nominated Democrats.
IN TWO VOLUMES OCTAVO. F
" History, who keeps a durable record of all our ails,
and exercises her awful censure over all forts of iove
rcign«, will not forget tliefe event*."
Nov. 1%. j t
[ Loft Lall Evening,
At Ritketts's Amphith«tr», (supposed to be taken by
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket) 1
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes
of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and 306, da
ted 12th last August, payable 60 days after date, to the
order of Paul Siemen, together for 5150 dollars; an order
of Mrs. Ann \ acpherfon, from Paul Siemen, on Lach
lin Mac Neal, Esq. at Port-au-Prince, for 100 dollars ; be
sides fcveral letters and papers of no ufc but to the proprie
tor. The notes of hand and order are without endorse
ment. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to
any person who will discover and fecare the thief, and
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
oned notes and papers at No. 129, corner of Front and
, Malberry streets. d '/ Odt.ix.
. CONSTITUTIONS.
This Day is Publijhed,
And to be Sold by W. WOODHOUSE, No. i,
South Front-street.
T IT E
Constitutions of the United States,
JtCCOKDING TO
The Latejl Amendments.
Ty which are annexed,
The Declaration of Independence,
AND
1 he Federal Constitution,
IVitb the Amendments thereto.
Thii Edition the late Constitutions of New
mplhire, Kentucky, and Tenneflie, not ia »nv for
""one - Nov. afi. |,a
FOR SALE,
A Share in the New Play-House,
And an ANNUITY, en the lift of a Lady who h
about 6ft years old.—Approved notes, indoried, w<»l
be taken at fix months. Apply to the Printer.
Nov. 1796. $ 1W
For Sale,
A Hand/ome Saddle-Horfc.
W* v to Hire, in a Private Family,
A Servant Man,
WTio understands either Cookery or Waiting at Table.
Enquire at No. iSSa, Mulberry-llreet, or of the Pruiter.
November 24- ' a ' w
For Sale,
By Jehu Holling/worth, & Co.
3j hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
5 Barrels best Indigo, and,
A few thousand bufhelsofTurVs liland fait. I
o<ft. 17. ■ .
SALT PETRE.
A large qoantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. aj, South Third-street.
November j.
Imported in the late arm- ill from Europe and the
Weji-Indies,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Hum
Martinique Molafiis, in hogsheads
Choice old Lilbon Wine, in pipjs and quarter-casks
London Particular tc London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-calks
Malmsey Madeira Win«, in pipe» and quartar-caUcs
Teneriffe Wine, In pipes
Russia & Flemifli Sheeting and Ravens Du<»k, ia cases
WindoW Glass, 8 by 10, in boxes
Coifee Mills and Straw Knives, in calks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes >
Also, on hand,
A few chests of Bohea Tea ; Jclgits Bark ; Afiafcs
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of Coflaes,
Baftas, Gorrahs, Bandanna and Muilin Handker
chiefs, and a complete aflortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Bjulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers Iff Co.
Oilober 30 dawm&tham
Irilh Linens, &c.
Imported per the /hips Glafgew, from Dublin, Liber
ty, from Cdrk, and brig Mentor, from Belfa/i,
4-4 and 7.8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In whole and half l|pxei,
Assorted from lid. to 4s. fterUug—Atfo 5-4 wide
Sheetings, and low priced yarn and woriUd Hofc. I
On llaud, •
7-g Wide Lawns.
Diapers and Table-Cloths
A tew boxes Tickens and Check*
A few bales Flannels
Cork and Bell'aft Sail Cloth, Nos. 1 and 6
a 5 Boxes ") f 6 by 8,
10 Ditto £ Window Glass, < 7 by 9,
5 Ditto 3 C. 8 by ip.
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
drawback, and will be disposed of by the package 011
reasonable terms.
James, Clibborn & English,
N:->, 6, U. Front-street.
loth mo. 19th. dtf
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo if thelhip Ganges, capt. Ticg«y, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
consisting or
A Large and general aflortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine -worked and plain Muslins,
Doreas, i!fc. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings £sf Francis,
No. ai Penn Street.
June S $
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open hisfchool on Mon
day tbe 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the inornfag, at his
Elegant New Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 .o'clock
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for ( \
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o j '
the fame days. / . 0 . <
In addition to a number of new cotillions, he means to 1
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels. ! '
Note. The firft; pra&ifmg ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuefaay, during the feafou.
For terms, He,enquire at his house, N0.134, Market
flreet. ;
°A- >7- . tthf ,
Just Landing, <
At South Jlreet wharf, from on board the Jhip Sedg. '
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Petersburg,
The following Goods:
Russia Sail Duck, firft quality. <
Do. Sheeting do. 1
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback. t
Do. Crash. , ' :
Do. Mould Candles, 4, j and 6, to the lb. of the
Englilh size. ]
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White Soap in small hoxas. 3
Do. Cordage of fine yam. 1
Ravens Duck. 'I
lCnglafs, ift and jand fort. <
Hotfe Hair uncurlcd.
Russia Bar Iron. t
Do. Hoop Iron. 1
Do. Nail Rod*.
10 Tons Oakum and Tunic.- <
St. Petersburg Clean Heinp., I
For Sale by '
Philips, Cramond, & Co. '
Oaeber ia. f " 1
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOB SON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and fhiped Spinilh SwfcMown
Clouded Krminats and Moleikins
Striped do, and do.
Figured. Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. Csffinets and Cafiimeres
Superfine printed .Quiltinps, ncwefi patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general affortiftent of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the prcfent and approaching fcafon.
November 5. " , dtf
TM CARGO
Of the Polacre Independent,
CSptain Cathcart, from Alieant and Lilbon, landing
at the subscribers' wharf
si* Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spaniih wool
3 do. of Annifeed
For faJe by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Sept. 13. d
The brig Weft-Indian's Cargo
Will be Landed on Monday morning
The 7 \JI injiant.
At South-ftreft Wharf,
From the North JiAc of Jamaica.
ISO Hoglhcsds and one barrel Coffie
13 HogUieads of Sugar
105 Hogflieads high proof Rum.
For Sale by '
PETER- BLIGHT\
November 19.
Washington Lottery.
The 40th and 41ft days' drawing of the Waflungton
Lottery, No. s, are rettived at the office No. 134, Mar
ket-street, where tickets may be examine a
N. B. Inlormation given where tickcts in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
November 17, 1796. d
: , :
For Saie,
AThree-ftory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefitut
street, between Front and Second ftruets, in which
Meflrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and ,
now do) carried on business.
Possession will be given ia one month, or frfoner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH,
April ai.
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER Ss 5 Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from 11 inch cables dawn
to rope of 1 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 27, dtf
Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbls.
47 bbl». prime Coffee,
v Best Boston Beef,
Cudfifh in hds.
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 n. T
Northern f J U
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a ftiperior
quality.
A few boxes excellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lisbon Wine.
1 A few sacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muslins.
FOR SALE BT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Odlober 31. tj
OLD ~
London Particular Madeira Wine.
In pipes, hogfhtads and quarter calks,
Landing this day at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, and
for sale, by
Jojeph Anthsny & Co.
Nov. I. J
PATENT SHO T. "
THE general onfumptioie ol Patfiit Shot having, been
prevented by the high price it has I.ithrrto bear fold
! at, the Proprietors take this method r>f informing- the
j Pubhc that they may in future be fupph. ct with -hat am
cle at the fame prices as c< mmon Sh 1:, by outerir.g their
' Correfponpents to apply to Walkers, kt.cj &Co.
Lendmi - "ov <) wtm 4 w
Samuel Richardet
D ESPECTFUI.Iv lortns the Ge,t| enwi
Merdhants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
| city of Philadelphia;
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the
dady papers published in Philadelphia, New-York Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal' com
mercial cities of will be regularly filed
and hone permitted t* be taken away on any account
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the ufaal refrefhments,
Will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the cholceft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mo ft.
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
productions of the Season.
Large and small Farties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners. or Supper, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation i s
regularly kspt for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at tns bar.
Lodging Rooms will be completely furniflied, and
requite* attention paid to cleanliness, and every other 1
£5" S\moel Richardet will behappy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
huge; and with gratitude for Lheir favours, he „klre»
himfelf that nothing on his pa.t fhal, t, wa^tin/t025
Philadelphia, April ip. mwfWm. Holdernesse, No. 76,' 1
> V NIGH-STMEET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
lV A IVell Selected Assortment ps \
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and j
Haberdaftiery Goods,
Which he will fell/ \\holefale and /etail, an the very '
lowest term; ,
Amongst <wbich are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns ,
Ditto Fnrniture ditto
Oitto Dimity
1 amboirred, Book, and Jaconet Muslim
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, assorted
lrifli Linens, very fine, and Tabic Linens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets afforted—&c. &c.
O'floScr 16,
IMPORTED
Per the Jhip Perut/ylvania, Captain York, from
Bordeaux,
*8 Pipes Cognac Brandy
60 Hogsheads Claret
IS * Cases ditto
to Ditto Sauterne Whit# Wine
*30 Ditto Soap
198 Ditto Ruflia Candles
88 Ditto Sweet Oil
per the brig Bride from St. Thomas's,
43 Hogsheads Sugar
9 Puncheons Rum t
' t Bales Cotton
And per the schooner Mellona from ditto,
40 Puncheons Rurn
I Hogshead Sugar 1
For Sale by
F. Ccppixger,
No. Nx, S. Front-ilreet.
Who lias.
An invoice of Irish Linens,
Imported per ship "Olafgow.
November a?. §6
LAND IN G,
Out of different vejjth from and for sale I
by the fubjeribers on reasonable terms,
•Superfine and common cloths, and caflimers
Ribbed and striped do. do.
Blankets , mottled green and silk rugs.
Superfine blue, Claret, and common coatings,
, Kerseys, Bear-fkin6, plains and Halfchicks, 1
Swan&ins, Serges and Flannels,
Britifli Ingrain Carpeting,
Hat6afforted in cases of \i doz. each.
Chocolate chintzes, printed Callicoes Handkerchiefs.
Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
Yarn, Worflcd, and Cotton hosiery,
Beavers, Thickfctts, Velvets, Corduroys, See. £cc.
Buff and drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality.
Gd. Bd. i©d. izd. aod. nails, and frying pans,
An aflortmcnt of Ironmongerry, Cutlery and a variety
of India cotton, and silk g«ods. >
Thomas & Joshua Fisher.
. No. 5, Doek-fttreet. «
Also by the Glasgow from Dublin,
J«8 and 4-4 IriflTLinens assorted in boxes of 30 pieces,
do. Brown, Glazed Liruira.
OA. 17. itt
Imported froth London Elf Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, in crates and hogfheadi, well
assorted
Wine Bottles in hamper*
Window Glass of all fi*e»
Two cafei of ftationaryi
t One chest of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A small consignment of Rose Blankets, Flsbmls, " n
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &c.
Paints of various colon.
Basket fait in hogfbeads. m;
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hogsheads and
quarter calks Jai
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality t»e
Anchors of different sizes
A few trunk* of ladies French fines assorted
Silk nankeen,&c.'
Likewise an affertment of Dutch good*, consisting of
"Ofaaberf s, tickleabergs, bed-ticks, stripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Britannias, &c.
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas tff "John Ketland.
Walnut-street Wharf.' lias
Nov. M. <*ntf hat
Just Imported,
In the schooner Lucy, Capt. Prows, from Madeira,
and to be feld by
ELLISTON Ess JOHN PEROT, rcp
Best London particular Madeira Wine,
Three years old, are
In pipes, hogsheads, and quarter calks, fit for im-
Bltdiate use.—They have also for sale,
A few bags of Juniper Berries.
o<slober»B. ' w &s4w
__ _ thei
Old London, particular, Madeira Wine, the
Xanding from on board the barque Eagle, Capt. Bates dfai
»nd for sale by ROBERT ANDREWS, ' '
No. 86, South Wharves. and
November ly. cecitf 2
FOR SALE, ~ fea 3
About 1,600 acres of Land, an d
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh t ' ,e
*nd Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, I'cnniylvama,' in f ron
four feparale Patents. For terms ct sale apply to 4
Wm. Blackburn, pro!
No. 64, South S'cond-llrtct. to t;
Oflober 31. mwftf
Davis's Law Book Store, dm'
No. 313, HIGH-STREET. 6
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeff.onal friends' ' e "- c
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the 7'
Union, that his laieimportation of BOOKS is now £rmi e f oun
ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volume to emir,. ]j •
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding J O vT ln! ' ,
prices, which for ft vera I years paJt have iu so a i
manner recommended to notice. g
Printed Catalogues combining the most extensive collec
tion cf thelateft Engliib and Iri(h Editions ever imported j
into this country, arc pMblifhtd,*ud xviJl be delivered gia;is 1
on application. h
_ Orders addressed to G. D. in wiiiing from any diftancc erect
shall be punctually attended to. I . .
A number of "IKUNKS for Sale. turn,
ALbO, TO BE LET, I I
A convenient LOFT, near Street Wharf. tile i
v Nov.B. of oa
AUCUSTA, (Geo.) Nov. it.
The following returns of the general ele£lion,
for memberj of the ilate legislature, two members |
and f®<" Congress, and four eleflors for Prcfident and |
Vice-Prcfident of the United States, held on Mon
day lift, are come to hand
very . RICHMOND.
Robert Walton, Esq. senator,
, new Robert Watkim aod George Walker, Esquires,
reprefentattvet.
Reprcfentativct te Congress.
John Milledje, 259
Abraham Baldwin, 291
Thomas P. Carnei, 237
Francis Willi*, go ' '
George Navlor,
A. C. G. Elholmi % (
El/Sort.
Thomas Gfafcock, j
j George Walton, 277
Edward Telfair, 2134 '
/ „ James Jackson, ( 200
' John Milton, (
Charles Abcrcrombie, jji j
Burril Pope, lQ g ,
Benjamin Taliaferro, ,
John Mathews, 2 j
William Barnett, 4
COLUMBIA.
James M'Neil, senator.
James Simms and John Foster, Efqrs. reprefen- ,
tatives. .
Reprefentntives t* Congrtft.
Baldwin, 42 „
Milkoge, . 74
Eleflort.
Jackfen, 41 g
- K" 405 I!
Abtrcrombie,
Pop't k 305 p
Glatfock, 0 ; P
56_ BURKE. ' ' c
D. Emar.uel, Esq. senator. j.
James Lefter, Thos. Lewis, and Abm. Jackson,
sale Efqrs. reprefentativej.
Reprefenlativet to Congrtft.
John Milledge and Abraham Baldwin, Esquires. >}
Ehaors. "
Charles Abercr»mbie, William Barnett, Edward b
lelfijir, and James Jackson, Esquires.
JEFFERSON.
Solomon Wood, Esq. senator. tl]
; e fj Colonel John Cobbs, reprcfentativy:. 0 j
Representatives to Congnft.
Abraham Baldwin, " ,0.
John Milled ye, 01
Thomas P. Carnes, 2Xo j C
win,, 2 »
George Naylor, t ,
Elefhrc. t ',
1., Jackson, _ e
John Milton, I°* «
ees, Thomas Glafcock, j,g
Charles Abercrombie, „ >~
Edward Telfair, V T .
George Walton, x ~f
William Barnett,
Benjamin on k
John Talbot, 9 l
CHATHAM. t
George Jones, senator.
James Jones Charles Odingfell,, J. B . Waxwell,
and James Jackson, representatives.
' Rtprejentativcs ts Congress ,
Abraham Baldwin and John Milledge. had the Z
majority -of votes.
EleSors. .
ind Charles Abercrombie, William Barnet. lames
KS Eiw " d *?*■ £
FRANKLIN. !i!'
Larchhn Cleveland, senator.
of Thomas P. Carnes, representative. .1
T , „ K'P r <f<""»>*es to Ctnigrefs.
icc, Thos. P. Carnes, and Abraham Baldwin, Efqti. i c f
EleSors.
James Jackson, Thomas Glafcock, Benjamin Ta
ha'd IZ'h-"t ft harkt Abe ; cr ° mbic > we'hear Br
...\ ha d tne highest number of rotes
WIL K E S
rl David Crefwell, Esq. senator.
■ f
p a. 1 , If"
' u Baldwin » and John Milledge, E qrs , !
are fa,d to have the highest number of votes. '"s f
BOSTONrNov. 21 . t 7 e '
Tuesday last ,h t Mar.ne Society celebrated »eu
th: ! f o r- al •' Concert "Hail. After dmne. Tio
drank ° W ' nS Pf " ment and patriotic toafls were «
'■'> , . feuf
and io thr ■ ~T y '. teverhe to charity U°rc
and to the principles of our Iffftitution. ' ' 1
3 ThVp r ;<:j 1^ e i IBt ° 'he haven of content, pra*,
and faithful qujrj *£'
5 llw?-"-' •
to take jhe benefit of the tide liU. CPn, ""' Ue "
»**•■ s.'
'inte, furnifh an admiral for the federllfleet"' dUC thfy
6. American commerce—-mav Wfl ru I C,)^IV
s , Itfted bvviolenceor treachery Unm ° limc!
: .i« pit I™. ».».♦
; 9 : tu7^T,:s:Lz h , ;js S5
( ged and. well manned ' >Fy neatl - v rI S"
htm, on every dangerous coait. Warnl Ada
Our infant navv f l Umti
:the protection of our commerce ! u < " qU ' l t0 in,,oc
of oar coasts. ■ and the defence mas,
Uwy<
5H9 12. A total lufi of the fliijj Tyranny, wiiliout
, benefit of falvsgc to the tindciwritert.
13. A leaky (hip, heavy galas, leesfhore, dark
ftion, night,and no light-house, to the enemies of freedom
mbcrs I Q (lr f orei "g n miniflers and consuls—may they
t and f CC ure rcfpeft to our flag and national chara&er.
Mon- fi ee p or t S) (hort voyages, and good mat
kets.
16. A speedy upon the furface of the great I
political oceaH of Europe. i
uires, I
RICHMOND, November 22. ;
EleSnrs of a Prejident and Vice Preftdent jn Virginia <
99 Daniel C. Brent, for the diftrift of Fairfax, &c. a
9 1 Leven Powell, for Loudoun, Sec. I
37 , Jofiah Riddick, for Norfolk, &c. f
9° John Mason, foe Stiffex, Sec. t
'4 Robert for Dinwiddie, Sec. a
1 .Gcrge Markhaia for Ch- fterfiekl, See. t
Nathaniel Wilkinfon, for Sec. o
43 M. Hunter, for Fiederick,/&c. c
77 John Eyre, for Accomack, See. b
34 Wilson C. Nichiilas, for Albermarle, See. e
°9 Benjamin Temple, for King William, Sec. w
4 2 £atefby Jones for No'thumberiand, Sec. c
3 1 David Saunders, for Bedford, See. ~ h
°9 William Terry, for Halifax, *c. f(
54 Peter Johnfton, for Prince Edward, &c. si
21 John Taylor, for Caroline, Sec. rr
■4 William Madison (and not Lewis Connor as men- I c
tinned in our lad) for Spattfylvania, &c. 01
- The other four diltrifls in this 'Commonwealih t]
elen- „ e h ave „ ot f rom , c v,.
ni
' ( ;■
29 From the ConneSicut Cour ant.
74 — C(
THE PEOPLE'S ANSWER. 9
l ® Doubtlefcf citizen Adet, as you have made a pub- va
>5 lication, by way of an address or appeal to the peo- so
>4 pie, yon wish tt» know what effiCt it has, and ex- ha
>5 pest an answer. to
'• Know then, that we are 33 little flattered as de- ju
ceived,%y your opening a correspondence wiih us. ju:
Having ordained and dignified our dear beloved Pre- pe
■' on » fident to rtcstive and answer ministerial addrefTes, hi:
and whose heart you will find found entmgt., and' wl
head long enough* for the trust ; it is insulting us wl
ires. t h at Ilot confine yourfelf to him. It is true, ab
yon haveadopted the revolutionary mode of doing tic
bufi-nefs; but, thank Qod, we have no occasion for res
•a revolation just now. ft e
you thight, one would thiak, have learned some coi
thing of your predecefTdrs. Genet,• the fir ft apolUe cip
of the republic to this country, in pursuance ofhis op
orders, publicly preached peace, and privately dealt cpi
4 out comroi'hons of war. Wliile devout in afTuran- Ima
ces that trance wi/hed us to remain neutral and J del
9 happy, he was rapidly fomenting a war which was wh
0 to be charged to the British ; and all things work- bee
1 ed we'll till, impatient for.the rupture, he threaten- wh
ed an appeal to the people, which blasted him in a J cot
9 moment. The cloven toot was cut, aud he could I A
1 do no mort. Ito
8 He of couife was taken away, and Fauchet, who pal
1 undeikood the game ot luhijl better, was put in ja ri
7 his place, with sorrow for what happened and lov- I ticc
*• mg aflurances for the future. Fauchet preserved del
4- a fair exterier, and might th«reforcj unfufpeited, j his
? have remained here to this day, had not the down
) sal of his patron Robespierre, tendeied it necessary I
to facrifice him too : and yet he was by no means J
idle. Hsr took precious ctrf/Jions, dispensed dci I
''' g'atias, of which he found a fen thousand were I
sufficient for American patriots ; and prophesied— of
to his own court, not to us—of JEFFERSON to neg
tne come; whefe way he prepared. dut
But you, at afingle dafli, havi overset the whole 1
buunefs. You must needs lug into your address, I hav;
tie* the very name of JefFerfon, for no earthly purpose
inn- but to discover the real object of it! And now, fati
ther# is not an eledior, on this fide the Delaware, that
t at would not be sooner fliol, than vote for him. I *uor
Unversed in diplomatics, it cannot be expe&ed i
that we should meddle with the question, whether a D.
nation, three:time. regenerated by Tom Paine, whom Kev,
I«• and his disciples exalt above 1 Moses or Jt- pre!
ius, is not absolved from tie fuuh of treaties, and why
ear V*lTr ""J*? ° f * F,c " ch ''*> b y fi »ding a Hev«
•>1 itifh lie to match it—Nor with the question, whe- Ibe e
ther the French may not lay aiide the Wof na the,
as the law 0 f God, and fnbftitute in fecu
he room of both, mptriotu circumjlances, as more He
• adapted >0 the energy and principles of a pure rcpub
nc-Nor yet vy.th what is Kfs doubtful, whether P°fi:
the French, when reversing all other maxims, midii i»du
• not reverse th« ancient one, that right of dominion he rr
is "Uiided , a grace, and found that right in the any
Z W L A' *T ; a 3! ? d T th " W "y make uut their ti- H
tie to dnca and plunder us in common with other clerl
ed "iw"pT • x Y e pAin,s rffrr y° udu 'y
",\ T ly U ' g for thc P ress at J ultimately W
re r° r ,ea^ w 8 1 * f tlme - But one thing we have judg
y , \ cords IfZT that baiters arc r.»t she proper rcadi
It is not neceflTary, citizen, .hat we should con- who
lit elude with the ufunl nMiUa.iou, M vo„ are so fully opini
to r i! 1 8° v «"0r Adams's proclamation for that
| d thankfjg'iving. THLPEOPLE. tnat
p " f " rt
ExtraS from a Virginia paper. j .into
" Men of modesty submit to the calumny with I "18 '
out attempting ro repel the parts of their a'dvcrfa-1™"" 1
lies. Conicu us of the pinky of their intent' I
6m y TV' ,he J ustice ° r country, aad I bla ®'
nt.uH their repuiation to the reason of calmer to bci
times and more lmfartia! judircs. I
"As total silence, however, is liable to ht con I
ftrued into a confctoufnef* of guilt, it berimes a I
i a
• ,hin £ Bto theunbiaffed mitte,
" With these views, gentlemen, I beg leave to chief'
c f 1 "t;"" "■
u. TO ns
0 1
f
itliout cmUnd relics liberty san c, r fy and A - ,
patriot ; a ftrenudus advocate Lc the right* I
dark country ; a f,,Aful defender of he, „.fn[J '
■edom lege,, and an undaunted and vigorous oppoS";
1 they the eacroachme.it. and tyranny of the BmiiK
te, liament one who InflueU by Us
raa.. vtneed, persuaded and animated byhia L'r
who repelled danger by his vigilance an,! ,£
great fruit rated the designs of our eoemies by hi, «Z h
ened councils, and defeated their be ft con lc ?"i
plan,—one whose superior foul, glow,™ >
ardent flame of liberty, coined
■gtma dtfficult.es deemed utfurmou,.table by inferior mini
&c. and contemplating the resources of his C( m llt
fought with eager expedition iheiffuc of the ; rn
pending contefl—one who regarded his wealth V
i.™;..d Ifc-hMf.. p ,4„,, ,«
and to advance its mterdts, voluntarily hazar' *t"
them on the precarious event of Hie unequal
one whose generous spirit wa, never fubjeft . 0 ,Z
contrwlmg influence of avarice or iclf i, Uc J
but whose virtue and dif.ntereftednefs (hone mo't
eminently ,n times of trial asd danger, in
Tl 'fv uT 1 r wxdeßt ~< IS
chtrj o, falfe friends fh-ok the foundation of our
hopes and threatened our deftruftion, a»4 w h 01e
fortitude inspired our councils with decision and
lupportrd the languishing spirits of his countrr
men m the darkest season of the revoluiion-a d'
nen- legate to the firft continental congress, and a leader
on the grand question which gave birth to the liber.
allh ty and national exigence of this country An am
ballad or to different power, of Eur o p V e; to whole
negociations the United State, are indebted tor the
acknowledgment of their independence by t | le
Hate, general of the United Netherlands, for the
completion of , treaty of amity and commerce
with that republic on principle, of reciprocal ad.
~ vantaffc. for the procurement of a seasonable loan
>eo- for the fuppou ps our crcdit and ral.ef of «ur ex.
ex- haulled finances, for the enlargement of our terri-
the security of our (liberie,, and in eon
de- junction with hi* honorable calleagues, for the ad.
us. mflmeht of the articles of the dcfVriimc treaty of
re- peace--A man, whose virtue and talent, procured
ies, him a gracious reception at foreige courts, and
and ' whose embafly was rewarded with Angular success;
rus who was courted by men of eminence and refped.
ue, ability, and received an honotarv mark of diltini.
ing tion liom the citizens of the metropolis in which lie •
for refidcd, as a teiiimony of their veneration and e.
Ileem A man wlio undertook the defence of the *
ne con it it ut ions of his country, in oppoiition to pnn«
Ille ciples unfriendly to good gwv-ernmcnti ;»nd to an
his opinion at that time entertained of their being in
:alt competent to the prefeivation of c! il libertv—a
an- man whose uniformity and consistency of character
ind dcmonftrale the goodness of his principles, and •
vas whose conduit from the beginning #f the war h<is
ik- oeen one Uniform series of public services, and for T
sn- whole petfevering iriduftry and unabatirig zeal, bis
1 a coutitiy is a* much indebted as to any of her foni-p
ild A man who is the delight of his friends, a bleflii:g
to society, and an honor to his country ; whole
ho palt services have a claim (as far asmeiit can claim)
in a right not only to the gratitude, but to the jtll
)v- tice of his country, and whose prefci.t pretentions
ed derive strength frptn a comparifoii wiiii thafe of
id, hi, ««mpetitOT,.*!~ —
rn- —'
T For tht Caietie of the United Statei.
n»
/« Mr. Fenno,
■rt Mr. Dallas mult pardon the abuse, as he calls it,
—• of I ennfylvanienfis, as it was engendered by liw
to neglect of what he himfelf acknowledges to be hi,
duty.
ile In your paper of 21 (I ind. he was charged wiih
fs, having omitted in tiie llatement of the law the word '
f e -within, by a correspondent, who said that he had
,v, iatisfied himfelfj on examination of the cafe as listed,
c> that it was not Jet forth <witf> accuracy am/jhat the
■word within was omitted.
Here wa» the charge di'eftly made. If Mr,
a D. thought it his duty, as he fay, lie does, to re
m lieve the public mind from the effett, of a oiifre
f. prcfenrttion relating to any official tranfitfioii,
d why did he not immediately do his duty and thtic re.
a lieve the public mind, before hi_s long silence cotild
j. be tonftrued into an acquiescence in the justice of
the charge ? Had he done so he would have bcea
n fccure (on that score at least) from anonymous abuse:
■ e He would not then have permitted his fellow-citi
>. Zens to be juftifiable, as they now are, in the fup
•r polition that anonymousaluse has a greater effect in
it inducing him to aifcharge his duty, than any wish
n he may have formed to relieve the public miad from
£ any misrepresentation whatever. v
i. His endeavor to lay the blame on a tranfenbtng
■r clerk will not fail, without any comment, to be
0 duly appreciated.
y Mr. D. calling it an indecent supposition that the
c judges had given their opinion on the law, without
r reading it for themselves, has much mistaken my
intention. It. was generally fOppofed by thofs
who were willir»gto apologize for the extiaordir.ary
y opinion of the judiciary, that they had.formed
r that opinion on the mutilated extradf, and l think
tCat it really i, the be ft exeufe that can be oijered
for them.
It was my sole wilh to bring these tranfafit'oas
.into the serious confii'.eration at my fellnw citiztr,
—that objedt is attained. Let those whose duty^
it is investigate the matter and lee whether (as hi<
excellency the govornor himfelf txprefied it) fair
play hag been {hewn, and if there has not, let the
blame reft on those fhouiders that are bell ei.tuicd
to bear it. PENNSYLV ANIENS IS
, Fer the Gi'iitti or rat UNirrn STATri.
To the Electors of Frejidcnt and Vicc-Prejit!ent-
A TRULY important and sacred trull is com
mitted to you by your countiy —to you fs delega
ted the duty of feledtin-g a proper character lor th*
chief magiltracy of the United Stnte,. Igthcdi!-r
charge of this duty, it beiiaves you to lay aiiJe
party and tool conflderations, all recurrence to the
immedfate causes which have procured you this if
pointmeßt, and to reflect feriouffy and solely on-t^
critical llation in which you are placed, and the m
ture and confeqiiences of the funiftion you areabi.lit
to fulfil. Ponder well each of sou, ray fellow ci:i
----1
i ' *?zcm, before you wate, wliioh rr.sy issue in the
furore peace and prosperity, or in the future corifu
fion and misery of your beloved country. —The
powers committed tby the.constitution to the Prcfi
dent of the United State!, are of the molt mteref
ting nature, as they concern our foreign relations.
At all times, bat more especially during the recess
of congress, the executive may, by his ptoceedings,
effrntially contribute to the maintenance of peace,
or involve us in difficulties, which rmift terminate in
war.—How important then is it to our tranquillity
and happiness, that yeu should fix your attention
on that man, who, uninfluenced by prepolleflions
for any other nation, but solely devoted to the in
tercßs of his own country, (hall be mod likely t<rj
pursue that wife policy, which has maintained our
happy neutrality amid ft the dieatjfiil catnap which
, . has .defolatet) bther"ri»tfnii,. If amoog the candi
dates, nor.e fhp.ull appear totally diveftcd, tn yeur
opinion, of feme partiality for one or the other of
the great rival nations of Europe, it is your duty to
elect him, who has, during the present war, manifef
ted the lea&t attachment to one, or antipathy to
the other of the belligerent powers. If (itherof
them should, during the lad four years, have given
Bianifell proofs of an enthufiajlic admiration of the
one, and a deep-rooted abhorrence of the other, of the
belligerent poweri, ask yourselves this quefticn—
" will inch a man conftilt the true interests of his
country alone in his tranfattion* with foreign pow
eis i"—My fellow-citizens, the of all Ameri
ca are now fixed upon you—your country waits, in
awful fufpence, the result of your choice—remem
ber that the volt of every onu of you will be here
after known to all the world.
Should any of you bejeduced by flattery, by in,
trigue, by party-conncxiou, or any other unpatrio
tic motive, to vote lor a candidate who will hereaf
ter pursue measures, predu&ive of intestine broils
or fpreign war, your name will be j»4iy devoted to
public infamy, and your charaller to universal execra
tion. The present crisis is new in our affairs—this
, m the Grit chief magiftntt for the uni
«n, (inceour inrTep'ehtTnnce, in which the public opi
, iiion has been divided and tire ifTue doubtful. On
. former occasions, the pre-eminent virtues of
Washington united all hearts. But that great
charadler is resolved to'retirs to private life, at a
junihirc when perhaps, much as ever, his wis
dom and pairiotifm are neceflarv for our preffcrvati
on. Let not yourehoice of a successor realize the
apprehenfioos of thefriendsof America—let them
not justly accuse you of making Washington's re
tirement a national calamity—let not posterity fay,*
" that W aihington, after forty years service* to his
country, after vindicating her liberties by his va
lour, aiid preserving her peace and prosperity bv hi*
wisdom, like another penelope, unCid, in the even
ing of his days, the gloiious work which he had em:
> ployed near his whole life in conttrufting." Choose
a fucceflbr, who by his wife and virtuous adraini
ftration, will allow history to, record this lafi a<ft of
the great Washington, as a splendid termination of
an illullrious career—and the bleffingsof a grateful
country will immortalize your names.
WARREN.
FOR THI o* TtTE'VKtT ID sTatSs"
No. X.
To the EleSors of the Prejident of the United States.
RespeCtable fellow citizens,
CREDIT lias been very erroneotifly given to
Mr. Adams, as agreeing with the Prcfident, and
the executive officers, and.indeed with the govern
ment in upon the fubjeft of all the rj;ea
fures which have been purftted under the federal con--
f flitution. It is a well known faff, however, that
Mr. Adams has never been considered or treated as
an executive officer The office of Vice-Prejident
has been kept in a perfefily dormant (fate, in an ex
icutive lenfe. Mr. Adams has not at all participa
ted or co-operated in the executive councils or bufi
uefs of the United States. He has been always
considered and treated,only as the President of the
Senate; that is, as the speaker, or chainjian, of
that branch ef the legislature. Hence, he has not
resided at the feat of government, except during
the feflion of congress. It is also true, and it it of
very grfat importance, that he is ftrengly opposed to
the great operations of the financial system of our
country, though adopted by congress, approved
- by the President, and confirmed by repeated legis
lative and executive ads. We mean here explicit
ly to affirm, without fear of contradidfion, that
Mr., Adams greatly disapproves of the funding and
banking svflems, and that he does not hesitate to
speak of them as matters that hare and will produce
extreme and extensive jlls»l Phocion will net deny
this: and every man must perceive what use he
would mike of the fame fct&e againll Mr. Jefferfon,
could he bring such forward. • He has attempted,
to eliminate Mr. Jrfterfon, on the score of our fi
nances, by arguing from particular allegations con
cerning the opinion of forae, who are rep.resented
as nnder his influence. But here are no foch wire. <
drawing, of Mr. Adams's opinions. That gen
tleman will never hesitate to admit, that he has of. 1
ten spoken of the funding system as certainly to
bring upon this country evils the mofl extreme— \
'1 here u not a citizen of tyual cOnjderatioh in the ,
Untied Staus, whose fenttments, upon the funds
and the banks, ate more opposed to the opinions of
every person, who ever has been, or now is, an of.
ficer of the trealury depamnent. Let all, who are
concerned in their efta'.es and political withes, con- i
ftdei and exariiine well into this matter. 77v t
it true, and the importance of it is irj- '
menfe. 'Thcfejlrong ohfei vat ions proceed from no '
malignity to Mr. Adams, but from a Ung refl e aed
nrtd sfttUJ cputian,^that the great Jnanctal opera- '
tions of our government, were <wise, necessary, and }
tntvtttU*. a kidekalist: (
■ C
For the Gazette of the Unitsd States. c
— r
Serious confideratioDS addressed to the Eledlors of '
President and Vice-Prefident.
GREAT paths Ua-ve been employed to prejudice
<cu ngsinff John Adams, and to bias you in favoi i
«f '1 iiomai JcffeiTon. —Ever fines the formation of o
He the federal coullitution, John Adams has been the
I."* Vice-Prelident of the United State* —It his
e been a prartiee in all regfllar governments, and
:fi- ticularly in republican governments, to tied to an
? ffice the mas ) who held the offiie next iiigheil in
ns- importance, unless there exilied fatisfaftory reasons
e for puffing him by—This praflice is founded in
?s, jujlice, in -wisdom and in poTtcy, It is jttft to re
:e, ward old and faithful ferva»ts, with higher digui
ln ties; it i* wise, by this kind of civil promotion,
ify to diftingnifhed chsrafters to fetve the
public ; and it is politic, by this regular advjnce-
I"' mcnt ' prevent as much a? puffible the collifitsk;
m- of fa&ions and intere.ts, whicW~fnay terminate here;
to as they among the Crccian republics, m defpo
ur nfm or anarchy This policy has been religiously
Ci follnTved in the caik-rri ftatt-s and in
Ji- Conneilicu', f<> confpicuoua for public order, tran
ur qu.llity and liberty.- It it perhaps peculiarly i m -
Of portant wi a government like that of the United
Stateiß-a departure' frora it mult neceffari!)' encou
rage tbt ambitious to thrufl themselves into the
t° exnlted ftatTon 0"f Prefident,by resorting to intrigue
of or corruption, and to fubjeft us inevitably every
en four years to the. machinations of foreign powers,
he Thus this inestimable privilege with which we are
he blessed may soon be converted into the engine cf
— our cleftruAion.
lIS . policy pofTefs then these valuable features,
"■ it i* demonftrablej, that, unless there be against
'• John Adams a serious, positive, fpecific, and w«ll
in fu jftawtiated chargc, his claims anc prctcn/ions arc,
n- on the retirement of Pielident Washington, pecu
e- liarly pre-eminent.
Mr. Adams hn» been near thirty years in the
n- service of his country, in various Rations-r-he was
'> a zealous and an active prpmoteraf our independ
|f- ence—he rendered essential services in various fo
i'» reign embafiies—on his return from Europe in 1787
to he was honoted with a vote of congress, declaring
a- " that congress had a high sense of the services
>3 which he had. rendered to his country in various
'J pot tint trujls, and prefentMg him their thanks
for the patriotism, perseverance, integrity and di
>n ligcijce with whjcb he had 'ably and faithfuu
ut L y ferve<l his country." He was soon after cle£-
at cd Vice-Prefiuent of the Uixjted State*, and has
a continued jwer since in that station. All these
f- things are ndmitlld, not by life for such a
t- ' man can have no enemy among Americans, hut Ly
ie the fuYuds of his rival ; they have not wbifpe.ed
m a reproach again/t Mr. Adams's conduct, public
'• or private—both ate allowed tobe ii reproachahle—
r,' his morality, virtue-and patriotism have long borne
13 the left of public scrutiny and have been found
a- without a flaw—his abilities, talents, firmnefs and
is undei ftaading are not denied—of these he has given
abundant testimony in all his public'ttanf»aioos,
y particularly in his ncgociatio^s—gut, he has writ
'e ten a book—Eledlors—have you read that book ?
<- Lay your hands upon your hearts—appeal to your
3f own confeitnces, and lay—Ought yoo tocaft aside
3 this faithiul old servant upon vague rumour,
ul upon mutilated quotations and artful publi
cations ? Is it not your duty to read tiitt book,
before you give a vote, which is to degrade
a pirtrirtr.-ffTio " ffever* liaiJ" a wilh, in
confident with his country's good ? \
- _ t* to fay any thiry, refpefting
Mr. Jefferfon, if you are iinpreifej with the advati-
Xage of preserving regularity and (lability in our
government, Admiiting that citizen's claims to
„ be equal in other refpefls, the principle I have Ad
d verted to gives Mr Adams a pteferable claim. By
»- a °® nc 'oning so ufeful anj important a guide, you
l- Wl!1 take awa y every stimulus and incentive to great
a ? ,P? tr ' 0 "' C yo" will lay the foundation
lt of faction and intrigue. ORDER
is ————————.
it
Philadelphia,
1-
. WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 30, 1796.
8
* *,* An inttrview is requefteil with •' Juhisperitu s."
t The magnificent Dutchi Church in this city, de
p, ftroyed by fire i» 1794, has since been rebuiJt, ancfc
y was opened for divine service on Sunday last s
° r There was a report in circulation yefterdav that
the French fleet had arriyed off Sandy Mooii—The
r New-York papers by this day's mail contaim no infor
mation on the fubjedl.
t EXPEKIMENT
1 ON THE CULTIVATION OF RICK,
3 Without covering it with water—Worthy the aften
e -ion of Farmers who have a go«>d proportion of low.
y rich foil.
e Extras of a letter from DoSor James S. Outing, of
A envbern, (N.L.J to one of his friends in Ne<w
j Yorky dated September 35, J796.
"As it is probable Dr. Mitchell never saw Rice
" grow, 1 have sent him a bunch the growth of ehis
summer, and the product of one grain. It
i redftd in my garden without the <ctfijiance of wer, '
. excepting the dews ants rains. The feed was put into
. the ground in June, and the crop ripe for gathering
this day. This hint may possibly be of service, as
, 1 ba ™ no doubt that many ef the low Meadows in
your climate -would produce it tn perfeaion—zuA you
" may fee by the sample I fend you, there is no grain
; that increases equal to it."
F '
' < COMMUNICATIONS.
Mr. JefTerfon fays, " The manufaßurUg mohs of
• great cities 'are like fores on the human body He
iays, " 'I hat the Emigrants from Europe bring with
I tkijra into America pernicious bubitt and an unbounded
lictntsoufnejs; —He alft f»,,, « | hat the cultivators
, the earth are the chosen people of God:"
l Wh "P art of this had the
Jefferfon ticket the great,eft majority ? Answer, From
a great city, and from the ultramontane counties in
habited by Emigrants, Whiikey-Boys and h/urjints
Queliion 2nd, Where had the Adams ticket t'i.etreat
e I " a J orit y ? Answer, Erom the cultivators ot the
earth-,he cliofen people of God-the honest, inde
pendent yeomanry, beyond the reach of foreign i„
. trigues and corruption, Question id T« i
therefore, is the result of '
mofl honourable? Unqnefti.nably to John Mams.
- A . corr <[p°r-dent observes, that the fertility of '
"venjion of a certain party seem* to be eaualled
on > y the di.tress into which tbcreturu»of the
% 1 v
•• ' ;
e e'; . a .iV»ii» of the Piefident aK Vice-Pre-1
o. :iikn: has thrown them. There never perhaps was I
a mate baref.iccd fii:iatement of the fehtiments of j
n me-', thjttj hzi been YefteTelay in Mr.
n BicheYpaper, of the probable ifltie of fin- rotes of
s the elei&r#,' The writer of the statement alluded
n , to, has rjjodeiUy declared, that Vermont, who has
- chofea is to have no vots on the occasion.
The following -will he found mtrcforrefi.
I Adams. Jefferson.
South4S»roh'na, 4 •, 4
;• ...-k.' " T '
' * 4 17
Kentucky, _ 4
Maryland, 4 6
Delaware, 3
I Pennfylvam'v 2 '3
New-Jersey, f
New-York, 12
| Veimont, 4
' Conne&icut, 9
Rhode-Island, 4
| MalTachufetts, 16 (
P New-Hampshire, 6
79 59
' Majority for Adams, 20
7
! BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
SALEM, November 22.
! Sailing of a Spatii/Jj Fleet. j
Capt. Mug ford arrived here on Sunday last from
Cadiz He failed the 26th September in company
with a SpaniCh fleet of 22 fail of the line, and 18
frigatesand floopsofwar, reported to be bound to
The Admiral's ship carried IJ2 guns.
While capt. M. lay at Cadiz, two Portuguese J
armed fhipj of about 500 tons each, from the Bra- t
zili were sent in there as prizes. They were very
valuable, and were captured by a Fiench privateer 1
fchoonerof j 6 guns, said to be in part owned by e
capt. Barney.
Of the Capture cis Admiral Jervis.
Capt. Pediick, of the biig Fox, arrived at Mar- a
bleiiead 011 Sunday last, from Lifboi\ He failed
in company with capt. Myritk, of Boston, who
brings the important intelligence of the capture of
admiral jerv-r's flert, &c. "We have seen two gen
tlemep of Teraciiy ftom Marbkhead, who conversed
with Capt. Pedritk,' and made the tifual enquiries
for news on his arrivaj, and he did not even mention
the important reports brought by capt. Myrick ;
he was not atked particularly the quell ion relative
to the capture of Jervis's fleet, btcaufe at the time
the report was not in circulation ; but it is certain- "
ly very fitigtilar that capt. Pod rick heard nothing
of rhi» imporrant intelligence, or if he did, and
made so mention of it.—We iruli wait patiently,
tor the arrival of the fl/'op at Button, which was to '
fail the next day after capt. Myrick, for* confirm*- i
tion or contradiction of this highly important re- <
port. ]
£Citizen£ireenlcaf would explain this by faying !
that Mr. Somebody, the owner, was not question
ed on the fubje&.j *
EASTON, (Maryland) Nov. 22. (
The celebrate!} Mi. He:iry (PatHck) of Yitglf
nia, it is said, oppoles Mr. Jefferfon. Mr. Henry\
has long been convinced, that from the amendments
which were adopted into the constitution, as weH as V
from the fuecefs of the adrt-iniflration of our federal j
government, all real cause of honest oppoiition had
been taken away. When talents, and a sincere '
heart like his, unite, we have invariably seen con
verts made to federal measures. Some_of the most
celebrated men of our own state, are evidences of
this remark. Conceited ignorance, however, makes
ifs accufiomfcd stand here, as it has done in all conn- I
and at all times, agatr.fl every light— except
Uhe light of « darkness vilible,"—a ligljt extremely c
flfeful to fallen spirits. Their fore-runners were si
milarly circumstanced, if we may credit Milton—
" Darlcnefj visible
(Served only to dijeover Jj 3 bts of iuoe
Regions of sorrow, dglcful (hades, where PEACE
And reft can never dwell - »
What a pidure of those gloomy spirits in this hap.
py country, vfflo fee slavery in the energy of good
laws—nobility in a common title of refpetf and
monarchy 10 the birth night ball of Washington !
—
gazette of the united states marine list.
PHILADELPHIA, November 30.
k Boston, Not. 2?.
"W SHIPWRECK. 3
By Tetters from Portsmouth received yesterday,
" rn * that "P l, Gibbs arrived there o« Sunday
aft, 6 day. from Halifax, who informs, that a *
from Le.th, Scotland, vyith J
™llcd the Betsy) was cast away on the 1 fie Sable : r,
fel 1 ,r P T! W " f pr ° bal:ilit ) f favctl, but vef
iffi t }'e r e ,"- r r at Halifax fem H Vessel to P
'r . " a ( r ! ' afttr bavip K landed 'hree men 0
f, , r" rhro ' I}r cfs of weather, to 0
f without elFefting any relief. There were f
A govern- i
0 r pp ° r ' d ' "°"" i kt di, f"" hrf
New>York, November 28.
Ship Alliance, Wotd kIVED ' t P Jyt
M.„,, Ferris, ' »
Bri S Colurnbi., Baktr, ' S l£', 3
Ship Amacoftia, DeT Anna K T 1 '
Scbr- Fly, Ban, ' aq °*- PS'V ,no °
9 wt* 1 noma 18
o» • CLEARED, L
Sj j&jr:
T.O S i»„, T>,
L«cy, Gore, ' weft.ladies
' #?< v .£&•/
■- 1 -Tie Alexander Hamilton, airived at Liverpool,
s in 24 days from this ptJrt.
f The D"ani/1» fliip A'ytoniellt, Hendricks, is ftfe
arrived at CedtE from this p<>rt.
f Veflels failrd in companV with the Alliancf, Capt.
1 ' Wood, Oftobw 16, from Liverpool,
s for B idon—Shiji* Alligator, Harris ; Polly,
. Adams; Berfey, Kennedy; Caroline,. Motley.—
Brij , 'Saltlit.'- Schr. Sally, Stone.
For New York—Ship Commerce, Delano, brig
■Polls; IJ.CJiminond.
For Virginia—Ships MonteeUma, Howard ( Vir
ginia Packet, Wills.. Brig William and Eliza,
■Luc?. ' '
For Baltimore'—Ship Cwliimbiti. Towns, Bng
Orion, Shore.
For Wilmington, N. C.—Brig Betfcy, Norton
do Aydalnt,
x For Philadelphia—Brier Rebecca, Thompson.
For Savannah—Ship Diana.
Novem'ber 29.
Rum at Audion.
6ft fri'diy. nejet, the and December, at II o'clock,
on Walnut-street wharf, will be Ibid by au-Sion, for
appro /ed indorsed notes at 60 days,
40 Puncheons Weft-India Rum.
FOOTMAN & CO. Audlioneers-
November 30, 1796.
To be Rented,
A Large Vault and Cellar,
That will contain see pipes, lkuate in Walnut
between Fourth and Fifth-ftreets. Also a COACH
HOUSE and STABLE, with Stalls for five horses.
N. B. Goods Stored by the month. ■
November 30. mwfl»
Dancing.
MR. FRA NCIS HeMsilJisitre, in coßjtMjp^i
I and principal dan
cer of Covcnt-Garden Theatre, now of the New-Theatre
—will open an ACad;my at Mr. Oellers Hotel, on Mon
day, December 11, where they propose to teach in the
most new and approved methods, dancing in its various
ufeful and ornamental branches.
Mr. Byre's recent attention to the dances of London
and Varis will enable him to complete this branch of
education in his scholars in the most finished style.
Favorite Scotch reels will also engage their particular
attention. 4
For farther particulars enquire of Meflrs. Fransis
andßyrn, No. 70, north Eighth-Areet.
Private tuition as usual. j
November 30. mw&f
For Sale,
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 36 wac f
£f'The MEMBERS "
Of St. Andrews Society, .
Are rtquefted to .'."Mend tli«ir im»vtrfary raeet'nj
at Oellers s Hotel, on tht 30th iuftant.
Dinner to he on the table at » o'clock. The mem
bers will please apply for tickets of admission to either
of the following gentlemen, viz. MelJVs. I'homu
Leiper, Gaven Hamilton, jun. Dr. Andrew Spende,
Robert Henderfon, James Henderfon, William H.
Tod, or John Shields. The officers of the society
will please give their attendance at one o'clock.
By order of the Society,
RICHARD LAKE, Sec'ry.
To be Rented,
v A tomplcte Coach'Hcufe,
L t y r ' l ' l tabling for four horses ; Ctuated near the
i'mverfity, with a passage into Market-street—apply,
terms, at No. 49,' South Front-street. ti
Nova 3. j
i- AROBBERY.
Three Hundred Dollars Reward.
L WHEREAS the Stores of the fubforibers, situate neat
i Ult : ftraet whatf » w « e > 'n the night of Saturday the
3*th mil. broke open, and robbed of a variety of arti*
fa, contained in two chests, (which ware also forced
pen) and of which the following are afcartained, viz.
17 One piece-London printed muflinet, 38 i-a ydti
I One ditto ditto *7 3-4
a 9ne ditto fine Marseilles Quilting ij
' 3 Three ditto ditto French Stitch do. 4* i-»
4 Five ditto ditto Marseilles Quilting 77 3.^
6 Two do. print Quilting 15 3.4
« One ditto ditto Dimities 33 i-»
K 9 Two ditto ditto Muflinet 46 1-4
to Four ditto ditto ditto 100
13 One ditto clouded stripe fine Quilting j« !
1 5 One ditto Corded Dimity 8 g
ql6 Foui ditto ditto ditto i OJ ~A
One ditto while Jeanett a 4
No. a One ditto ha If-cII clouded Nankeen »♦
4 One ditio aitio Fancy ditto 21
«i One ditto halyard olive Ihickfett g 3 ■>
11 Two ditto ditto olive ditto J,
13 Two ditto ditto mud ditto 46
14 One ditto ditto olive ditto '
it> Two ditto ditto bottle ditto A
A reward of one hundred and fifty dollars will be
paid for the return of the goods, and in proportion for
any part of them ; and the further sum of one hun
dred and fifty dollars to any person or persons who
rebbe P ry Uto C ° nvi£Uon tke P tr P«rator» of the
An iron crow bar, with which the door was forced,
pointed at one end, and marked with the letters P< F
on the other end, was left in the store, by the villain."
committing the robbery j who are supposed to have
f off by water as a boat was taken the fame night
fttn 11 Tf Whar £' a " d was left to a
shallop at Almond street wharf.
PHILIP NICKLIN y Co. ~
Ncv - "9-
Sheridan's Dictionary,
THE SIXTH EblTlOlf,
Is this Day Published,
Br m young, mills & son,
Corner of Second and Chefnut street.,
4 /n»o,'X B r'„ w/ " mf ' P rice 3 dollars.
LANfiSI K W^ ON f Y of the en glhh
LANGUAGE, both with regard to found and mcaian: ,
one main objeS of which is to establish a plain and D eJ
m p Cn f ' of Pronunciation. To which is pr^fiLd,
a Profodial Grammar. * r.\,
rvo . fir MW«« SMMRIBIH, A . M .
OctoberImpcrtad in the late arrivals,
And to be Sold bj
JACOB PARKE, t
No. 49. North fide of Higb-flreet, Philadelphia,
V GKytI.IL ASt9KTM£HT Of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c. c>uc
AHOV6IT WHICH A**
SMITHS' Anvils, Vice., and Files; Saw-mill, Cross- <
cot. Hand, and other Saws; Carpenters' Plana, Chifeln, *
and other Tool,; Carving Chifeis and Gouges; Locks, on :
Hinges, Bolts and Latches; Mails, Sprigs, Tacks, and _N
Screws; Frying-Pans; Smoothing-irons; Shovels and
Tangs; Coffee Mills; Candlesticks; Snuffers; Warming-
Pan»; Table Knjxfs ind Forks; Riding Wfcips; Bar
low Pen, and other Pocket Knives; Razors ; Sciffars; §(_
Needles; Ivory and Hons Combs; best Kirby F:fc
Hooks; brass r»binet Furniture; Waggon Boxes; Sheet
3rd aft ; plated and tm'd Bridle Bits and Stirrups; itto
Sa die Nails; Girth and Straining Webbs; —witfe most /
kinds of Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, Brats Wares, >,(}\
See. Sec.
Ofteber 14. mwf6w
A Short Delay
In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery,
Tn Washington city, has been unavoidably occasioned
by the unforeseen intervention of Mr. Blodgrt's Lottery
—but as the major pa: tef the tickets STe now disposed
«f, this is to inform die public that the drawing of the Ca
nal Lottery will certainly commence without fail, on the
firft Monday in January 1797, and those holding tickets,
aje hereby requeued to fend a ftntement of those fold, and
those on hand. , I
NOTLY YOUNG, ;
DANIEL CARROLL, of Daddington, .
GEORGE WALK.rUI,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY,
W. M. DUS'CANSON.
The Printers who gave eur advert ifemeutr a place In
their newspaper*, art reqaefted to give this notice admis
sion, as the remaiting tickets are expected to be soon above vf
par, and we wife adventurers to be timely informed ,IC *
Nov. ti. •
■ — ® r 1
RA NAWA r, "i
About the ill of O&ober fail, from the plantation of **'-
Mr. Thomas F. Brooke, (in Prince George's county) to
whom he was hired, a NEGPO MAN, tamed CfIJSAR;
33 years of age ; abouc 5 feet Bor 9 inches high; well 11 "
made ;of a yellowish complexion; a little pockmarkcd: 48 1
*as, when spoken to, rather a down look, and submissive t ' ,a
tone of voice; ths clothes he had before he abfeonded
were of plain, such as labouring Ne;roes usually wear, A 1
hut these he may probably exchange for others : he will the
endeavour to pass for a freeman, having, as I wil
have been informed, affum-d the name of Bntler: I have Un:
reason to believe that he went to Baltimore, from whence 1
he is said to have gone to some part of the S«%jehannah, old
probably with a view of getting to Penafylvania. A afte
reward of Thirty Dollars w3l be given to the person who n«r
may take him and so secure him in some jail that I may dra
get liim again, if taken in this state, and Fifty dollars if, the
taken ont of the flaw, and if brought home or feeured in the
the jail of Prince George's county M reasonable charges ing
will be paid by ALEXR. COVINGTON. 1
Maryland, Prince George's County, ") are
and November, 1796. J Jith*t&f4w of
________—————————— 1———— mo
A Manufa&ory FOR SALE. the
A Vallate SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, situate a si
in a convenient part of ihc city ; rbe works almost new, ber
cm ao entirely original cooßiu£tion, and builiofthe best frie
materials, and may-be fct to work immediately* Persons
who wish to purchase, are requested to apply at No 275, ]
South Second Street. September 13. t t f it
— — hai
Treasury of the United States. dra
OTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
may be Creditors of the Umted States, for any sums 4
Futdcd Debt, or Stmt, baring a present inlerefl of Jut
*cr centumper annum. '
ill, That pursuant to an Aft of Congress passed on the J* n
98th day of April, 1796, intillcd an aft in addition to an °
aft, intituled "An aft making fuither provision for the _
support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the said debt or stock will be reimbursed and ,
paid in manner following to wit. " First, by dividends j
" to be made on the lail days of March, June and Septeir**"
" her for the present year, and from the year onethoufanS
« seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou- j
"'sand eight hundred & eighteen inr.lufive, at the rate of
" one and one half .per centum upon the original capital.
" Seeondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of
" December lor the present year, and from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year P
" one thousand eight hundred and feventeeU inchifive, at »
" the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be made on the last
day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun* —
•• dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then adeJl
" qoate, according to the contrast, for the final redemp->
" tion of th -* said stock."
ad. All diftinftion between payments on account o£ Fi
Inter eft and Principal being thus aboliihed by the eftablilhj »r
ment ol the permanent rule of reimbursement abovs de
cribed, it has bccome necessary to vary accordingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; th pnblic
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
seftablilhedfor allpowers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation ol this notice, viz. ™
KNOW ALL MEN BT THESE PRESENTS, that lY
v / '/ pi
do stake s corJUutc and app?:nt
if my true and lawful At• —
t,rnty,f.r me .and in my name, to receive the dividends which are,
orjtail be payable wording to lavi, on the (here describing the
stock) jlandiny in my namein the hooki of (here defcribmgithe
books of the TreasUry or the Commiffiener of Loans, h
where the flock 1* credited) from (here insert the com- C
mencement and expiration ol time for which the power of k
attorney is to continue) with power alf* an attorney or attorn *
a its under bhn,for that pvrpoft to make andfukfiitute, and to do all C
itrwjul ads rnuifiU f*r cffcSing tbef>rtmifes, hereby ratifying and J
confirming all thai myjaid Attorney or bufubfitute.Jball la-wful~
ly do y by virtue hereof,
In IVitnefs hereof \ I have hereunto set my Hafld and Seal th v
day of in the %oar «
Sealed and Delivered 1
BE IT KNOW N,that on tie day of >
efarc me psrfonally came
within named and acknowledged tic above letter of attorney to be
Hi aS and deed.
In teflimoay whereof I have hereunto set my Han {and aff.x
od Seal the day and year last afory'aid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tietlrday-Df July 1796, pursuant to directions
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAIMUEL MEREDITH,
Trcafurtr of tic United Stater.
July 13. w UTr tlj
WANTED,
As Coox, in a private family,
A YOUNG WOMAN who can produce good re
commendations of an unexceptioflihlt chtrsficr. En
quire of the Printer.
November tj. Jtf
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchsfed or tr(>o]
exchanged for prizes, at the Offiee, No. *47. Chefnut-
street, where a correct Numerical Book is kept for publ 1: pof a
infpeftion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or CT " next
changed forpriets djawn is the Waflungton Louery, 01
which the 40th and 41ft days returns are received* The
ty Th» Business »f a Broker carried on as ulual. T
v A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fold y
on rnfonable terms.
NQvem'oer 14. tot^
City of Wafliington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, \ 7 0.11,
FOR THE IUPROVIMENt 0 t THE >j
FEDERAL CITY.
A magaifiecDt > 10,000 dollars, h. ? 000
.dwePiing-houfc, j ciih jo,o<x, are 5
I ditto if,ooo k calii 15,000 40,000
I ditto Tj,ooo & calh 15,000 30,000 -»■"
I ditto 10,000 & cafli 10,000 io,oco
I ditto j,OOO & calh 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & c«fk 5>00" io,o«e
I cafli prize of 10,000 J (
» do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
so do. 1,000 - - 10,000 Pjc(
10 do. 500 " • - 10,000 Kivi
00 do. 100 - - 10,oc* jij, ;
9JO do. 50 10,000 „ f
400 do. 25 - 10/>oo Piccj
r,ooo do. io - 10,000 Fori
15,000 do. SO « Ije,ooo Defi
Sten
16,739' Prizes. so
31,261 Blank*.
II
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400/100 men
ni&
N. B. To frvour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, :he prize of 40/300 dollars will be the 1a st drawn bets
ticket, and ihe 30/000 the last but ow« i_ _ T
And approved notes, securing payment in either money l° Wi
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, willbe received for O
any number not less than JO tickets.
This Louery afford an elegant specimen of the pri- P°rl
vate buildings to be erected in the City of Wa&ington—-
Two beautiful deGgns are already feleftod for the entire 0
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it is proposed to erect two centre and'fonr corner buildings, T
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey °
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in T
the mannerdcfcribdd is the scheme for the Hotel Lottery, ther
, A nettdedu&ion of five per cent, willbe made to defray ; fort
the necessary rtpenfes of printing, the surplus troii
will be made a part of the fund intended for the Natiana! adrt
Uaiverfity, to be elected within the city of Wafliington. at 1<
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are pro]
old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days I derl
after it is finished ; and any prizes for which fortunate • risc
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the that
drawing is clofcd, are to be eonfidered as given towards by 1
' the fund for the University; it being determined to fettle j for
the whole buliaefs in a year from the coding of the draw- the
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security. raft
The real fecmrities given for the payment of the Prizes, ent
ire held by the President and two Directors of the Back °f
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
moant ol ths lottery.
The twenty lour gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commissioners aflifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake thi. arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufScieiat nun j
, ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
t friends to a National University and the other federal «h
---1 jofts may continue to favor the design. p
By accounts received from the different parts of the j
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are allured that the o bfl
drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and beei
. caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of cun
- the tickets, has rendered the kior.* fefponfion indw'penfabi*. I
SAMUEL BLODGET. that
•S* Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of P ur
, James Weft & Co. Baltimore ;of Peter Oilman, Boston ; e
j of John Heplrius, Richmond ; and of Richard Walls'
. Cooper's Ferry. «o
= Twenty Guineas Reward.
* RAN AW AY from tlie fubferiber on the ijd Odober,
a Dark MBLAITO BOY, named MOSES; 11 years
j old ; about 5 feet 8 inches high; had on a mixed green j u jj
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons; J
r a striped veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boou much worn. It is probable be may change by
j his name and dress. He has been accustomed to driving -]
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be «d,
paid for fccurmg him so that the fubferiber may get him ftuc
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by the
Robins Chamberlaine. p ul
ft. Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 f Imiawtf p" r
% James M'Alpin, Taylor, 'p™
No. 3, South Faurlbjlreet, a«r'
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his fob
as Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement, abl
if and begs leave to Solicit a continuance ef their favors. frit
e- He has on hand an ex ten five assortment of the 'be
£ Moji Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the best quality, suitable for the season.
Be At this stop Gentlemen can be furnifbed withthe best g ;
materials, and have them made up in the neatest and most
Fashionable manner, and on the Ihorteft notice. He will "~
,<rt thankfully receive any orders, and pay a. prompt and
punctual to them.
November 10. ws
Brokers Office, and r
he COMMISSION STORE. *
No. 63 South Third ftreet,oppofite the national new Bank n
m . OAMUEL M FRAUNCES and JOHN VAN R£JED, g,
of O have entered into co-partnerfiiip, under the4rm as f
or- tRAUNCHS & VAN RhED, in the bulinefs of Broker%
all Conveyancers and Commission merchants. They buy and
aid f«H on commiflion every species of flock, notes of hand, p
'ul- biM of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Monzt procured on deposits, &c. See. all kinds «' u
thi writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnsfs and
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the •
most correct manner. CoHftant attendance wall be given. •!"
They solicit a {hare of the public favor; they are deter
mined to endeavour to daferve it.
N. B. The utmost focrecy observed. " 11
» be S AMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED. ' -
tjm- PhiUd. august 97, 1706. m&wtf '' "
en Hories tak,en in,
ions For the Winter Sea/on,
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, 19
miles on the Bristol Road, where good stabling is pro- c
*• viJed, and great care will bt taken of them '
L WiltiMm Bell. ]
N0v..»3. mwfawmtbtf.
To be hold,
1 re- The Time of a smart, a&ive Negro Lad, '
En- Who has -tTeven years to serve.
Enquire at No. j«, Sauth Front street.
tf Oftoher it. f
Philadelphia, November 6,1796.
ALL perfoM desirous to ccntracl for furnifhiug o;
Rations and Quarter-Maftcr. (lore., for the
troops iu Philadelphia or Port-Mifflm, on Mud mind,
duri»g the year 1797—are requefledto fend their pro
posals fealcd, on or before the firft day of Becember
t0 TENCH PR \NCIS, Purveyor:
The component parti of the Rations, are
t pound of Flour or Bread For
I pound of Beef or 3-4 of a pound of Pork
1-2 a gill of Rum, Brandy
or Whilkey *
t quart of Salt
i quarts of Vinegar , p OT 100 Rations
s pounds of Soap
1 pound «f Canaiea .
Nor. 9
Treasury Department,
Stptemier 28, 1796. *
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals w»U be re- -
eeived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the ,firll day of March next en
suing for the supply of all rations which may he roquired
for the use of .he United Statss, from the firft day of *
June, 1797, «° the thirty-firfl day of May, 1798, bote **
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftrids h.re
after mentioned, via. At Ofwego; at Niagara , at
Pjefque lfie ; at Sanduflcy Lake, and on Sanduflcy
River; at Detroit; at Michifimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittfturgh ;at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton; j>
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jcfferfon; at Grcr.ville; at fi n i|
Picqut Town and Loramics Store; at Fort Adams; at tick
Fort Wayue; at Fort Dtfianc* ; at any place btiow Fort Dia
Defiance cb the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fcrt of,
Steuben ;at Fort Maffac ;at any place from Fort Maffac ,
to fVr- south boundary of the United States on the river
Milfifippi; at Fort Knox; at Ouiatanon. .j a
If fuaplies shall be required for any pqfts or places not J
nien tinned in this notice, all fucn (applies &*U be fur
niiked at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the *
[ p*iU before recited, »r as may be hereafter agreed on
1 between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be fnpplicd are to confflt of the fol
t- lowing articles, viz. .
t One pound two ounces of bread or flour. " ,
One pound two ounces sf or fourteen Mocn c.
. pork or baron.
Half a gill of rum, brandy cr whilkey.
. One quart and half a pint of -j— ■
, Two quarts of V i negar, (p a hundrCT j
rations : JL
i t Two pounds of Soap, C ce3l
J One pound of Candles, J
2 The rations are to be furnilhod in such quantities, as that
•here shall at all times during the (aid term, be faScient
y | for the consumption of the troops at Mißiilimackinic, De
, 1 troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, far the term of fix months in
I advance, and at each of the other polls, for the term of
at least three months in advance, in good and wholesome
t provisions, if the fame fliall be required. It is to be un
s ! derftoad, that the Centra&or is to be at the expend and
e rifle of iffuirgthe supplies to the troops at each post, and
e that all losses faftained by the depredations of a* enemy, or
s hy means of the troops of the United States, fhail be paid
e ! for at the price of the articles eapturpi or destroyed, on *
. the depositions of two or more persons of creditable ch2-
ra4«rs, and the certificate of a commiffioncd officer, as
, certaining the circumllances of the loss, and the amount
j' of the aiticles for which comper.fation fliall be claimed ir £
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury. ' or
J — s°'
< . SWANN'S, nt
1 Riding School, Forfe Academy if Infirmary.
e Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street. co_
I T. SWANN rou
RETURNS his sincere thanks to thole gentlemen by whom eu
ie he has b»en employed, during his refideoce in this City, and ]
a flatterihitnfelf that the success of his efforts, in the numerous,
16 obstinate and dangerous difeafet in Horses, in which he has
d been cnnfulted, together with hit moderate charges, will Oe
>f cure their futurefavors and recommendation.
«, He now begs leave to inform tbem and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premises, erected for the
3 f purposes above described are epen for the recepiioo of pupils
!. of either £tx, who wifli to be iaflru&td in the Art of Riding,
Mid the right method of governing their borfes, so as to ride
them with cafe, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
- carefully aud expeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient to the will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are (hut up m them, will be unfolded by art, calling
' forth unilormity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
" all those beauties of aflion which providence has so bounti
" folly bestowed on them. tic
'J Also, at hit hospital, every diforJer to which the borfe is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed i
' e by long and'repeated experience.
'8 The utility of the above infiitntioo has never been qoeftion- 'y
>« ad, that it has long been wanted in this city, everjj gentleman's wl
m stud will manifefl, and T. Sw.nts as the fiift cftablilher of ch
>J theveterenaryart, folicitt and relies upon the fuppoit of that ; ly
public (which he is ever anxious in feiving) to enable him to | nc
• bring it to perfection. The idea of a fubicription for that
_ purpole has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wiQi to £ u
1 promote the inflitution—the amount of each fubfcripiion to
be returned by services in any of the departments, he profefTes,
agreeable to the rate of charges Rated in his hand bill. Such —
lis fubferiptfon is now open, and the signatures of many refpefi
lt, able geoileaeu already obtained. He therefore injorms hit
friends and such Ladies and gentlemen' to wbom he has not
'he honor of being known, that he shall in a few days Lake T
the liberty of waiting upon them and soliciting their support "
and protection. T v
N. B. Horses arc properly prepared for those Ladies and a
' Qeiulemen who with to be inftrutled.
oft Nov. ■ tth&r.
'ill
nd James Mufgrave,
GOLDSMITH Gf JEWELLER,
Ne. 44, foutb Second-flreet,
HAS just received an aflortment of Plated Ware
and .Jewellery, Plated Tea and Coffee Urns, Coffee
sots, Tea ditto, Castors from J to 8 bottles, Sugar and
Cream Basons, Bottle Stands, Baskets, high Candleftics,
Brackets and Chamber ditto. Branches, Sconces, a variety
™ of Silver and Plated Shoe La cheu, Spurs, Vs. 13V. war
r4J ranted of the heft plate; Ladies and Gentlemeas Gold
in . Watch Chains, Seals and Keys; Necklaces, Neck Chains,
» Eear Rirgs, Finger Rings, Lockets, Breast Pins,. Stone
f Knee-Buckles, with many other aiticles in the above
• branches.
He has likewise received an exteafive afTorttneiit of
1 e tea and coffee Urns, persian, blue, brown,
black and gold. '
L " All kinds of work iathe gold aud silver line; minia
• tures set, and hair work executed as usual.
November 9. tu th & f 1
• * The Elephant t
IS RETURNMD FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpc&fully informed, that
this animal is to be ieen every day, from 8
o'clock in the raotning till fun down, in Market
ftreet, No. 106, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-flteets.
Admittance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
—— tizen may fee him.
CQ* At the request of many perfens it will be
exhibited on evenings from five to eight o'clock,
' at half a dodar each.—The room will be well
lighted.
§ November 7. d
.By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, Ko. 64,
South SecondJlreet.
SCHEME 4 aXOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thoufaod Dollars, agroably to an A& of
the Leg flaiure of Penmylvaaia, passed during the Itj
)'rill on, for building a Stone Bridge over the R:ver
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in Ujc County 0 f
Berks. Doii a „,
1 Prize of 10,000 Dollars - *s,c?o
1 do. of to.oco do. - - »c,ooo
3 do. ef 5,000 do. - - - i s>ooo
4 do. of z,*» do. 8,03,,
10 do. of 1,000 do. . - - - 80,000
39 do. of 500 do. - . ig, 5 03
80 do. of ioo do. . . . i6,oc«
too do. of ico do. - sf,ooo
300 do. of 50 do. ' - >5 °oo
1 do. of joo da to be paid the po&f- >
lor #f the firit drawn no. J Q~ a
f do< of 3,000 do. :c be paid polTcrtors /
of th« five ialt draws cos j
9,400 do. of 15 do. : - >41,000
lo,oj4 , Vri»fi 300,000
10,046 Planks
30,000 Ticket! at Ten Dollars 300,00®
All Prizes dull be paid fifteen days after the drawing ij
fini fiied, upon the demand of a polTefior of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence a» (oon at the Tickets are difpgftd >
of, or perhaps foooer. of which public notice will be gives.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Wit man,
Jofrph Hicjler, Jarr.et Dietner, Thomas Dundaij
yamet May, J(-hn Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graej~,
Sebajlian Miller, Cokmissiokers.
Reading, May ibegth, 1796.
Tickets in tie Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the
above office, where the earlicft information of the draw
ing of -the Waffiington No. a, and Patterfon lottery's,
are received, and check books for examkiauon and regif
tering are kept.
O&ober 7. jawtf
PaterfoQ Lottery. r •
FOR railing fix thousand fix hundred and fixty-fevea
dollar* and fifty ce«ts, by a dedu&ion of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prise. viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 500 a
X 1000 loca
l 500 590
J 300 lOCO
10 100 a coo
99 SO 49i<>
a 00 if 5000
1000 10 10,000
5 Lsft drawn numbers of 1000 dolkrs each, ;ooa
I 3333 Prizes. 44,45*
| 4018 Blanks.
. 6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Directors of the Society for dtiblilh
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperiatendants of the Pat- •' -
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Ssheme to the public, and have direfiod thru
to refund the money to those pcrfons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickcw
n this Lottery.
rhe lottery has a&ually commenced drawing, aad will
continue until finished. A lilt of the Blanks and Prizes
may befeenat the office of William Blackburn, Jfc. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
»" «ts i*Sy 5*
1 Dated this 17th day of Jane, 1796.
J. N- GUMMING, }
* JACOB R. HARDENBERG, [ Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
e I Prize of jooo ... toco
1 1000 ... 1000
g 1 500 ... 500
e 5 100 . 100 a
1 20 100 - - - iooo
*90 50 45 00 .
5 165 25 - 4"5
'I The five last drawn tickets, ioeo e_ch, 5000
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
2 As the Lottery is considerably more than one third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great,
ly increifed, and it is worth the notice of tbofe
»t who hola tickets in ths old scheme, that they can ex
if change their tickets for thole in the above, if they ap
»t ly soon, and at a moderate advance considering the
0 now real value of an undrawn ticket.
" The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing ia
0 future will be often**, and the Lottery loon finifhed.
° November 13. mw *
*1
VV aihingtbn uanal Lottery,
o! NO. r.
Ie TT THERE AS the State of Maryland has arthonfrd
■rt VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fir Uioufand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpote of cutting
id j Canal through the City of Waffiington, froxi th Pi^
tcmacto theEaftern Branch Har./our.
_ The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -I Prize of 30, 000 dollars, 40,000
t ditto 10,OO* 10,000
1 "*°°
re 6 ditto 1,000 6,000
; e jo ditto 400 4> c^o
3d jo ditto JOO 1,000
cs 55 ditto J°
;; C 750 dkto ii 69.°=*
J. To be raised for th» Caaal, 7.6,15°
as, 5850 P""«. 175.°°°
ne 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Ticket», atTen Dollars, - 175P 00
0 f The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
„ quired by the aforefaid aft for the pan&ual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing as this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prize, as are not demanded in fix nsonths after t.is
drawing is finifhed, lhall be considered as relinquished for
the bsnefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordin^iy
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
... DANIEL CARROLL,c/D.
a LEWIS DEBLOIS,
1 8 GEORGE WALKER,
et * Win. M.DUNCANSON,
ind THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
ci- City of Walhipgtoo, Feb. 11. 5/
be ■■ Z
ck, PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
ircll —No. 119
CHESNt'T-STREST.
[Prlcc Fight Dollars per Anew.]