#actte of the Unites States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmbeil 231.] FRIDAT EVENING, AUGUST 19, 1796. [Volume X
F° r Eofton,
The brig Neptune, F ™ {
James Tower, Mailer,
WILL fajl o;Sunday next. For freight or passage apply
te EDWARD STOW, Jun.
Aug. 16 § No. 76 South Front Kreet.
For HAMBURGH,
J-**- THE SHIP
J G H N ' I
Robert Jackson, Mafler, J
iM/.'JS'lttjCS' To fail in fifteen diys,
A VINO two-thirds of cargo en
gaged oi ready to go on board. For freight or passage |
apply a the matter on board at Wain's wharf, or to T T
John DcnnaTdfon, li
No. »4 Walnuf-ftteet. I Mer
Jily it. §6eotf be v
XSjV The brig Mary
J§§F4 FOR SALE, I "
' AND may be seen at Abiah and William 1 g
Brown's wharf. She is about 800 barrels I l
burthen, strong ' uilt, and well but-bolted, has elegant I £
accommodations, is a good fa iter, only 10 months old, I j)
and may be sent to f«a immediately. Apply to Si
James Brown, t
No. 119 South Second-street.
Who has for sale, a few puncheons high proof
Jamaica Spirits. —
AN© A FEW BARRELS SHAD.
Aug. 13 ff6 I
For Sale or Charter, j the
B O S T 0 \\
SUJKFHEN about 200p Bbls. of flour—lhe ma;» be sent I
to sea at a small expence, her fails and rigging being in I nQw
tcry good order—apply to I p
"James Campbell, or
Geerge Latimer.
April ay, § J *
This, Day commenced Landing, I
At V iffliHS wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop J .
St. Jago, from St." Ja go de Cuba—consisting of
White and Brown Box SUGAR.
MOLASSES, of an excellent quality.
COFFEE.
HIDES and HONEY. Also,
For Sale or Charter.
The brig LUCY,
\ out ' ® ron g vessel, will carry a- |
XX bout I joo barrels, and may go to
c - sea with a very small expense.
The aboVe will be fold for cafn or approved notes. 1
Samuel Emery, ~
No. 64, south Second-street. J
July 1796- - dtf " 7"i
tor : 1 "L
Or for Charter to the Well-Indies, *
C E "^"' E S » t"
Vj.v' > Philadelphia Built, i
Live Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 3500 bar
rels, now discharging at Latimer's wharf. This vef- j j,. (
fel is in excellent repair, well fouud and will bear a tho- . Pi
rough examination, and as soon as discharged will be iea
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to
John Vaughan.
July 18 §
At South-street wharf,
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft August,
by snow. Hope, from Jamaica, a«d Hoop Sally ,
from Port-au-Prince, % 1
300 Hhds. COFFEE,
70 Hhds. SUGAR. 7
Also, the cargo of the Snvedifh brig Gujlaf Adolphe, 1
cnfl. Ramfre, from Gibraltar,
tA and ivth proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds. |
—- Haile Nuts in sacks
St. Übes ?ALT, fcr sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
4-—*. _ For Charter, I
" The said brig
\ Gustaf Adolphe,
{■' A Swede, with a Mediterranean pass, I
J a ver y g ne vessel, about 200 tons bur- I
the a. Aug. 18. $zweoiw j
I
Tc be fold by public sale,
ON Wednesday, the 7th day of September next, on
the premises in Mount-Holly,Burlington county, by
tie Subscriber,
The Dwelling-House and Lot
Whereon it Hands, having been'in part occupied as a ftere j
for 'fever-1 years part, and in a good ftandloi buhnefs,to
gether with the store-house, liable and buildings thereon 1
erecfted, having two large cellars Under them. Also, the . <
{hop goods and household furniture. A clear title will be
riven to the purchaser on payment of the money or fut
tocknt bend therefor, and pofleffion of the premises will
be given in the said month of September.
The lale is to continue 'till the whole is disposed ot.
. . Mount Holly having become the County Town, makes
this property mire valuable than heretofore. The condi
tiohs v, ill be made known at the time and place of sale, by
PETER SHIRAS.
N. B. All persons indebted to the fubfctiber.are request
ed to discharge the fame immediately, as he intends soon
to remove out of this state. Any' person having a just de
mand against the fubferiber, is requested to produce the
fame-for fettlenient. » H i lw
Mount Holly, August 16, 179^-
WANTED,
A STORE and Cellar or Compting house and Cellar,
for the Whelefale and Dry Good business. Enquire
atNo. 119 Arch-street.
For Sale at the above place,
500 Boxes Window Glass, 8 by 10, 7 by 9, &c.
too Cream Cheeses in the bed order, imported from
Holland, and entitled to drawback. Enquire of
Peter Borger, '
Au 16 aaw3w
Landing
From on board the Nancy, William Belcher, mas- tj j
ter, from Bourdeaux, a cargo, conliftinjj of—- IA.
360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET, TAV
C'ifes of 24 bottles eai h, Claret, 0
286 Hi. of 24 do. WHITE WINE, "[ h
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and ?*'■<
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS, . „J c i
For Sale by imd n
F. Coppingcr. of '^
J U 'f 2 3- V wiU »
Wm. HOLDKRN ESSE,
A r o. 76 High Street, Th
I TTA3 reteived, by the Jateft arrivals from Europe and , produ
IXX the East Indies, a well feleiftcd assortment of Silk | La,
I Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdaihery Goods; which iccorc
Ihe will fell, Wlwief.ile and Retail, on the lowed terms; , hours
AMONGST WHICH AKE, reguli
j Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and ftlver at the
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto Th
1 Do do do do Handkerchiefs the u t
Some extra black taffeties,lut«ftrings and colored Persians lequi!
I Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and (hort Nankeens eieru
I English Mantuas of the firft quality large;
I Damalk table linen and napkins, very fine himfe
Silk Hosiery, an elegant affoKmunt [crvc 1
Thead and cotton do ingly
j Umbrellas —green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth Phi
French cambrics, very fine
| Irish Linens, do. &c. Ac. June 14 5
Wanted,
\ Partner with a small capital to unite in the buGjiefs ]
1 il of a Mill aid Dillillerj in Virginia. Inquire of
j the Printer. Aug. 9 §iw
_i EnE_Sa.Jp,
j *' Three story BRICK HOUSF. and Lor, in Ckefcut * 1
I /l street, between Front and Second streets, in which
; I MelTrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for manj years (and
I now do) carried on business. chef!
j Poffcfrion will be given in one month, or sooner.
Foi* terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
1 » April 11. $
FOR SALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
1 in pipes and hogsheads
j Claret, genuine old, in cases
j Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, injioglheads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9 -
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead -* 1
Steel, German and Ruflia, in barrels
. I Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas, S.
0 Tin plates —An invoice Stationary, by
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. r_T
July 19 $ 11
1 — ~ wht
ELEPHANT. * ™
This Animal it to be seen in High-Street, between f lon
the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street. The
T TTE »;.i —» TTiHcnpcn-ttie tenth of Stg~ Ki'
IXX tembcr,for Baltimore, in his way to CESrtefton, by
where he will win er N
ADMITTANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar Ji
The PANORAMA, or the VIEW of the CITIES of
LONDON and WESTMINSTER,
r " I Is to be open till the 10th of September, and the lub- 11
f- will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE
| PHANT. 5
a- ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA,
One quarter of a Dollir.
August 3. . _L <)„
Sales of India Goods.
I The Cargo ef the (hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal, . 1
ft, I CONSISTING OF
ly, I A Large and general assortment of Bengal aad Madras
XX COTTON and SILK GOODS. -r-i
AMONG WHICH ARE \
j A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins, j P i»,
P I Doreas, Also, j J
ie ' I A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER #
For Sale by .. - Inc
Willing® Francis,
No. a 1 Penn Street.
I June 8 §
j For sale by the fubkribers,
IN PENN-STREET,
ifs, I 130 quarter Chests frefb Hyson Tea; gr.
ur-I 100 ditto do. frelh Souchong Tea; aw
r I 300 Boxes China, containing small tea fttts of 41 ph
I pieces; tit
I 400 pieces Bandanoes. Ju
Willings & Francis. ~
on I o
,by January 30
India Goods at Audtion. j r
ere Friday next, at 10 o'clock in the morning, will be
,to- V/ fold at auition, at ; No. 56 South Front-flreet, about -r
eon bo bales of India white Goods, entitled to the drawback, X
the consisting of— t h
1 be Long Cloths ; m
fuf- Baftas
will Gurrahs fr(
Emerties ' th
of. Coflaes th
ikes Humhums m
adi- Tanjibs si(
. h 7 Mull Mulls.
'; ft . Edward Fox, Au&'r.
roon Aug.n. w
the Salt Petre.
W . A few tons of excellent
EAST-INDIA SALT-PETRE,
| FCK SALE BY
Samuel Breck, jun.
ar * All?* 9« co 6 Rofs's Wharf.
uire . . & y 1 —
Landing,
From on board the Schooner Expedition,
St. Croix Rum&Sugar, (
, For Sale by F. COPPINGER, a
w Aug. 11 § South Frent-fiieet.
Samuel Richardet,
"D ESPEGTFULLY Informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVEfeN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Phifcdeljhia. where
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with underi
daily pajur-i pubUlhed in Philadelphia, N:w-York, Bef' S U P
ton, £jltimore, together with tboie ot th,e principal com- Yor
mercial citi«s of Europe—TJtey will be regularly filed tlal
none permitted to be taken away on any accojnt.
Tea, Coffee, Jellies, lee Creamv and a variety
of French LiqirOM.; together with tfce ufaai refrefhmeiJts, a
wiU a' all tiaies V procufad at the bar.
C»ti»tlemen may dipelvi on being accommodated with j ()£ j
the ehoiceft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the 00S j_ or|
approved Malt Liquors from Lor.don and other breweries.
The I.arder -will be iupplied with the prime and earliest
' productions of the Season.
Large and fcnaU Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
I accommodated .with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at 4-^
. hours mod conv.-nient to themselves—a cold Collation is 6-4
regularly kept for conveniency, thit Bill of Fare to be had 4-4
at the bar. 4"4
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnilhed, aid AIJ
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other Qui
reqni.ltc. ■ n
Richardet will behappy to receive, and Gin
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at "
large; and with gratitude f»r their favours, he pledges *
himfelf that nothing 011 his part lhall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has bee# so diftinguiih
icgly iionored.
Philadelphia, April 19. eo q
Philip Nicklin & Co. _ 1 -
FOR SALS, W
Souchong conti
Hvlon Skin / alley
Young Byfoa > FRESH TEAS and;
Hyson and \ large
China Ware, assorted in Boxes and Chests »y rs
Quick.lilrer ar, v
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in ovet ?
chefis wine
Lo»don Market MADEIRA WINE a [ ea
London particular >in pipes, hoglheads, & on '
New-York Market J quarter calks . rici
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogfceads
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in Iheets dwe ]
3 Calks of Cutlery assorted an( j
A few chests of Manchester Goods, assorted thick- }
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c. bath
3 Small packages of black lewing-filks houf
ii Tierces Virginia Snake-root. the c
Nails assorted in calks in de
July 18 mw&f good
■ — ■ roon
, Asfhcton and yames Humphreys, mair
CONVEYANCERS,
HAVE removed their office to No. 61, Walnut-ftree',
next door but two to the corner of Dock rtreet, 611
where all INSTRUMENTS ="^ drawn at
a mbderate charge, with eve, accuracy and dispatch.
They, likewise bay a«<' W Real Estates upon commif
' fions, and procui' ione y "P on Loan on g ooJ security.—
The bufinef' oUn ATTORNEY AT LAW and NOT At J ]
- rY~E37SUC is alio tranfafled at the said office as usual .
"TtBSHBTON-unußHiisviu. 11
N.B. Good Notes difcouuted. ( .
r July 5- eo6w
f a Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li- A 1
verpool,
<000 Biilhel. SALT ;
ioo Crates QUEENS WARE; and J
An Assortment of SHIP CHANDLERY ; j
foßsa l e Un
- -On board, at Pine-street wharf. Apply to
fames Campbell, or J i
George Latimer. I s f a
April V). _i_ COE
A middle-aged Woman, \C
WHO has been used to the care of children, and can 1
give reference for her reputation, may hear of a Or.
f, i place, as child's maid, by applying to the Printer. no.
I ; ; T- 5 - ful
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and diftria of aCt
Southwark; .
Published, and fold by N '
BENJAMIN DAVIES, j
No. 68, High street, I Ri
(Price one dollar.) I So
THIS plan is 26 inches square, and has been en-J
graved by one of the firft artists in the city, from a late
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam- t
41 phlet-with each , plan, giving " some account us the j J.
city, fts population, trade, government, &c. j ce;
July r 9 tH &f tf
Letters Patent,
Granted to the Subscriber, for the Cure of
Incurvations and Dijlortions of the Spine, _
he- By an improvement in Stays and an Apparatus.
° Ut TT VERY thing has been studied to render this applica- I
ck, JQj t ; on fafe, easy, effeiftual, and generally ufeful, and I _
that if necessary, it may be accompanied with any other ~
i mode. _ I
Thafucc'efsof the Patentee in the cure of distortions, I
from Incurvations of the Spine, the Wry Neck, &c. in
this city and in different parts of the United States, under j "•
the inflection of eminent phylicians, when every other I
mode bad failed, will, it is hoped, afford the public fuf- ln
ficient testimony of the utility of this application.
N B. He makes an apparatus for restoring dillorted I ,c
feet in children—Bandages in of various I f c
deleriptioos, and one in particular on a plan entirely new,
_ which in some cases is found so answer better than any lirI ir
other. I
He returns thanks to those medical gentlemen in differ- I Cl
ent parts of the United States who have honored him with |''
tlicir patronage and confidence.
The Ladies are refpedtfully informed, that he has I e
an elegant assortment of Snys and Corsets for Sale, which 1
will be altered if necessary, free of extra charge,
f. LUNDIN M'KECHNIE, j
Aug. 16 aaw3w No. 17 Dock-street.
A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's place is wanted by a person properly quali- j
fied, and whose character will be found unexceptitfti- I
able. Apply to the Priatcr.
:t. Aug. 11 tf I
George Dobson,
BEGS teive to inform "the Store-Keepers in Town and '
Country, that be has lemoved from Market-Succt i<>
N°* 25, south Third-street,
where he »s opening a Large ai>d Elegant Ailbrtmcui of the
undermentioned article*—viz.
Superfine London Cloths as:d Kerfeymerev,
Yorkfhue fecowd Do. Do.
EialUc do. do.
M ix 'a and Blue Coatings
liiiinrlUt
Manchester Printed Callicoes,
Luircou Chintz ditto,
dtfW> Furnitures*
India (Jitto,
Long Cloths, CoflTacs, Baftas, Battillas&Conjevrema*
4-4 9-8 5-4jft 6-4. Superfine India Bo«k
4-4 and g-£ India 800k Hand kerchieft,
4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 &. 6-4 plain do Mdfnns,
4-4 & 6-4. B/iti(h Jaconeii,,
6-4 Britiih Checks an<i Stripes,
4-4 India do. do, do.
4«-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs. <3cc.
A large assortment of figur'd <.*4 pjain MudiocU,
Quiltings, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
Fanty Waiikcoaungs,
Ginghams of the jfiriQuality, fubjeft to Drawback,
ludia Nankeens,
Men's White and coloured Silk (lockings.
May 9
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOI of GRO UND thereunto belonging, ,
the weft fide of Third-street, near Union-street
containing in front 3a feet, and !n depth 100 feet, to 2:1
alley leading into Union-street. The house is 32 feet front '
and. 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
large, commodious, and completely finiihed; the twiifirft
stories ire £adi l.i jfeit highi there are 50 mahecsuiy
doors in the house ; a geometrical ftaircale, with roato.'z
ny rails and a good iky-light. Th« kitchen is in the «i].
ar, which is fpac.aus .nd cor.veaicnt, and finiihed with.an
oven, stew-holes and pantries, a ferVants"' hall and larjr
wine-celiar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which* is in
area in which there is a pump* The yard is vaulted
Communicating with the said building is a neat three-story
brick house, on the north fide of Union-street, contain
ing 30 feet front by so feet deep; the lower part of which
is at present occupied as a compting-boufe, and the upper
part divide.' into well-finilhed' large chambers. Thishoul'e
may at a small expense be converted into a convenient
dwelling : The ctree t door is very handsome, and the frortt
and back have Venetian window-ihuttcrs. Adjoining th -
last house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are erected
bathing-rooms, &c, There are likewise very good coacfi
honfe and liables finiihed equal (or nearly so) with any in
the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet and
in depth 011 the weft fufc of faidalley 52 feet. There arc
good cellars unde, the whole of the-building's, and a wi»-
room over part of the liable, with a - ~
mainder. For fiirtjvrr nMIL.. 1 T" Tj _ . .
■ TtDWARD BONSHLL 3c Co,
jic Bum office No. 64 Dock-llieet. between Walnut & Pear
eo lb ecu.
6ih month 24th, 1796.
- PROPOSALS"
(By William Cobbett, opposite Christ Church, Phila
■delphia, for puljliihing by fubfeription,
The History of Jacobinifrn ;
Its CRIMES- rRHF L/i IKS and PERFIDIES,
COMPRISING an Inquiry into the maimer of dissemi
nating, uiijier the appearance of Philosophy and
Virtue, principles which are equally subversive of Or
per, Virtue, Religion, Liberty and Happiness.
By WILLIAM PLAVFAIR,
Author of the Commercial Atlas, Sec.
With an Appendix,
Br PETER PORCUPINE,
Shewin'g the close connexion which has ever subsisted
I between the Jacobfnsat Paris and the Democrats in the
1 United States of America,
j CONDITIONS.
I I. This new, entertaining and inftru&ive work, which
I is at once a history of Jacobir.ifm and a complete history
I of the French revolution down to the end of 1795, will
consist of two volumes, o<£avo, each containing about
300 pages. It ibail be well printed, on a new type and
I fine paper.
n 11. The price of each yolume, bound in boards, will be
a I One Dollar and a Quarter, paid for on delivery ; and to
I non fubferibers, a Dollar and a Half.
111. Asfaon as a fulficient number of copies fliall be
- | fubferibed for, the work will be put to the press, and fin-
I ifhed as expeditioufly as a ftrid attention to neatness and
jf I accuracy will admit of.
Subscriptions taken by the publilher, and the prin
! cipal Bookfelleis of Philadelphia; MelTrs.Spotfwoodand
I Nancredeof Boston ; Mr. Rivington of New-York ; Mr.
Rice of Baltimore ; Messrs. Pritchard and Davidfon of
1 Richmond, Virginia; and Mr.' Young of Charleston,
I South Carolina. Aug. 11
te Lottery
"C'OR railing fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
le J f dollars and fifty cents, by a dedufiion of fifteen per
j cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars jooo
I l 1000 1000
I 1 S°o 500
5 % aoo icco
ao 100 acoo
?, 99 jo 4950
I 200 25 joco
a _ I aooo 10 a O,OOO
nd S Last drawn numbers <w 1000 dollars each, joca
Prizes. 44>4J0
ns I 4018 Blanks.
in I
ler 635° Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44.4J0
ler I By order of the Dire&ors of the Society for eltablifti
if- m g Ufeful Manufafiures, the fuperintendants of the Pat
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to ofi.r the
ed I foregoing S«hetne to the public, arid have directed them
)us to refund the-money to those pcrfon. who have purchafc-d
W; 1 in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets so? tickcts
n y lin this Lottery.
I rhe lottery has actually commenced drawing, and wilt
■ cr _ continue until finiihed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
; t [, I may be fecn at the office of William Blackburn,. No. C- r
I south Second street, who will give information wht re ticL
|,as I ets may he procured. -
icli I Dated this 17 th day of June, 1796.
J. N GUMMING, ")
JACOB R. HARDENBERG,>yimgers.
JONATHAN RHEA, J
I June 18 eo
CAB L E S, '
a ''" 1 From 16 to 9 \ inches, for sale by
Jeremiah Warder,
f I July 21 J No la aor'JiThii^-ltrot;.Philadelphia,
FRIDAY EVENING, Aucu.t 19.
A Brew.house and a Distillery ace now ere&ing
at Ptttfburgh, on the fcite of the Old Fort du
Quefner
USEFUL AGRICULTURAL HINT.
From a Liverpool paper.
The not permitting sheep to lay long upon the
ground, when firft put to turnips, but to move
them about at stated intervals in the day and ni/ht,
has been found to preveßt that fatal disorder called
ti\e water in sheep, which arises from their gorging
tl.emfelves with turnips, and then temaining with
out exercise to carry off the beginning of the com
plaint. This method is fuccefsfully pra&ifed in
Northumberland, at the small expence of a little
trouble to the shepherd.
In the little work of Dr. Carmicbael Smith, con
taining experiments made with nitrous acid, to
check the infeflion of a fever on board the Union
Hospital-Ship ; it appears that the noxious effluvia,
generating fever, may be so entirely deftroyea,j by
the simple process of extricating it in the form of
vapour» in an affe£led apartment, as to render it
perfe&ly Yafe to the attendants, and others necef
fatily employed about'he perfonsof the sick. When
twenty or'thirty fever patients were carried daily to
the hospital, from on board the Ruffian (hips, by !
this simple means, not only the further esUenfion
of fever was checked, bat the generation of the 1
morbid matter was so much ftibdued, that only a J
Few cases of fevei occurred during the space of seve
ral months, and then on the vapour bring extrica
ted in the apartment once a day, instead of twice, f
which had been found neceTary during the height j
of tbedifeafe. , (
—————■""■nHHBSn*""
PROGRESS OF SCIENCE* \
HALIFAX, (N. € ) Aupift r. — r
We are informed that the semi annual examina- [
tion commenced at the Univirfity on Monday the 1
I ith of July, in the presence of his Excellency the J
Governor, President of the board, a confidcra'ole c
number of the Truftees,and the Committee of Vi- J
fitation ; thebufinefs was not finifhed until Friday n
the 15th, when the judgment of the Committee
refpefting the examination was publicly pronoun- f
ced in the presence of all the Students and the Fa- u
culty of the University 4 several clafles and feme of j
the Students received the marked approbation and r
applause of the board and Committee.
It was said with great truth by the French Con- f
vention " that as in every free Government, the f
law emanates from, the people, it is necessary that
the people should receive an education to enable
• . the law, and the political part of this
education ItKiuntrDe pr ; nc i p l es 0 f
the Constitution under which they ] an
of education efiablifhed by the board of Truftefs 3
appears to be predicated upon this principle, and
designed to form ufeful and refpe&able members of
society—citizens capable of comprehending, im
proving and defending the principles-os our govern
ments ; citizens, who from the highest impulse, a J
just sense of their own au<j the general happiness, r
would be indnced to praflif? the duties of T6cfal v
morality. A deep and fixed conviflion that it is j
degrading to be tributary to other dates or coun- (
tries for ou'r literary and p-rblic chara&ers, a general
and strong desire to promote education and exalt &
improve our national chara£ter, have given a tone
to the public sentiment, and bestowed a decree of 1
emulation upon individuals from which the mod r
happy tffe£is may be expe&ed.—Near one hup- l
drcd of the youth of our country are now Students h
at this National InFiitution, and we are authorized si
to assure the public, that the examination was high- si
ly fatisfa&ety to the Traftees, and that the pro- o
grefsof many of the yqung gentlemen was not on- v
"ly marked by the strongest evidences of industry a
and attention, but accompanied by a display of the I
molt prcmifing talents. it
(£/■ The rooms in the University are full, but d
boarders will be taken by refpeftable families in the tl
village. ei
From Sir B. Thcmpfon, in the Philosophical Tranf- 5
•actions for 1794.
" THE light of an Argand's lamp is to that of
• a lamp of the common coi;.ftruftion, with a ribband
wick, as 187 to ico, and the quantity of ligh
with a given quantity of oil in these two lamps is 1
about 15 per cent. The light of the lamp when
compared with that of a wax candle three fourths
of an inch in diameter, was as j to 12. In the f
produSion of light, 100 paits of bees' wax are
fqual to IOT of tallow, 129 of olive oil, 12 Jof cr
rape oil, and I2oot linseed oil A candle burnt
twice at fajl when not fnuffed. It is not true that, ar
in the latter circumftanee, it givei less light ; but
a black opaque body, in the midst of the flame,
eclipses * grea't part of the light. Besides when
a candle is fnuffed, the inflamed tallow evaporates
from a much smaller fur face, than when it is not m
. fnuffed, and as the flame is hollow, less tallow mult ; t
be burnt. The whole merit of Aigand's lamp de- nc
pends on its being a ntb lid, rather than a cone of
' flame, and even the middle part of the ribbon is
hollow. The transparency of the flame con
• jquence of its being hollow. A good candle oc
lafionally fnuffed, when it seemed to need it, vari- w
cd in irs light from 100 to 60. An ordinary can- j
cHe in 29 minutes varied fiom 100 10 16. w j
.mi il 1 1 11 m 1111 l le
' From late Englijh papers.
CAMBRIDGE, May 14. R,
We should have thought it impofhble for any A
khcrr.e to have entered into the brains of a bed- m«
larcite more frantic than some of those pursued by mj
our ministers. But the apellate Fiizwilliam his G<
roved us mistaken. li* the House of Lords on
Ttiefday last, his Lordship declared ir. strong lan- wi
. " that he was against any fort of peace be- the
iig concluded with France, and that he'was decid- tri;
1 1v for the helium internecinum"—that is, the war thi
lolute extermination ! Happy is it for man- vai
kind, that the noble idiot has not the means of put- bly
his wishes in execution.
60 Saturday lafl, his Serene Highneis Prince
™ William of Gloucefler, wj:h his aidt-de-camp and
suite, arrived at Trinity Lodge, for the purpose
of taking his degree of Do&oi of Laws in this
university; and on Mondav he was admitted to the
j® said degree in full Senate, being presented by the
Ull Rev. W. L. Manfel, the public orator, wha deli -
vcied in his ufhal graceful and impreflive manner,
an elegant Latin oration, but which we ate sorry
to fay, was full of fulfo«t« compliment, not only
j,,. to the prince, but to some of the prominent vices
)ve of the times. The orator's zeal was warm " loh
ylt tra^Aemocratici!"
j cc j It is supposed there were between two and three
n g thousand per funs aflembled on the occasion j'-and
Ij. the ceremony was conducted, with much elegance
m- a'"l dignity.
j n His Serene Highness is now in the 21ft year of
t j e his age, and his manners are affable and plealing.
In theCouit of King's Bench on Friday, an ac
tion was brought by James v. Wright on a note of
in . hand for 1 il. When this note was put in and pro
, ved, Mr. Mingav, for the defendant observed, that
on James was a pnblican, and lived nearCarnaby mar
|a ket ; that the defendant was formerly a butcher, but
' now liad also become a publican, so that both par
0Y ties were publicans ; and he was afraid before this
j t cause was Over, it would appear that they wete
,j- both likewise Sinners.
. It appeared from the evidence that the plaintiff
t0 and defendant fat down in the plaintiff's Houfc to
play at whist on a Sunday morning ; and that the
t ' n defendant loft 121. for which he gave him the note
e in qucftion, payable in 18 months. It wa» alfu 1
a proved, that the plaintiff had afterwards offered to 1
e _ lell this note to a third person for 2gs. Lord Ke
a. nyon, in his summing up to the Jury, cxpreffed <
c great indignation at this business, and lamented that i
lt gaming had so deeply pervaded the whole mass of <
the public. Said his Lordship, "it is extremely '
to be lamented, that this vice has descended to the 1
very lowest orders of the people.'—lt is to be la- t
mented that it is so prevalent amongst the highest f
of" foefftj jr wliv» U.ivt L—x \l-.o jq '
l " inferiors, and who it seems are too great for the 1 1
ie law. I wifli they could be panifhed. If any pro- '
e fecutions are fairly brought before me, and the parties ■ c
e are juflly conviclecl, whatever may be their rank or I
'• flatten in the country, though they should be I
V THE FIRST LADIES IN THE LAND, they shall CCr
e tainly exhibit themselves in the pillory. When I
speak of the highest classes of society, I mult be (
'- understood to mean fubjeHs, for these observations a
do in no refpedfc apply to those of the very highest t
d rank in this country, who hold out for the imitati- 1
on of their fubje&s the brigHtest example of every f
'- public as we'll as private virtue !"—Verdift for de- I
e fendant. i
it
Tranjlated for the Gazette of the United States.
13 HAGUE, May 3. f
The hotel called de alte Hof, destined for the c
accommodation of the Hereditary Prince, is grant- <!
«-? by government to the Ambaflador of the French e
Republic. a
FRANtTORT, May 3. a
Strafburg papers mention, <hat a (hort time ago x '
'* printed invitations to desert tothi^ m y Q f Condc, P
a were diftribated among the republican \roopß ; the '
result of which was, that the ,' n
? which a 24 sous piece was wrapped up, were torn h
13 in pieces, and the money turned into the chest of t
the army.
DUMOURIER. t
From the Gazette of Erlonegen, April It.
e Letters from Copenhagen mention—" On the t
>f 12th «f Odlober, last year, a small sized man ar- c
ft rived here, who announced himfelf for a French ,
1- American, and soon after departed in an American
:s bottom for America. Afterwards we were in- „
d formed, that it was the famous Dumourier, who t ]
1- finally despaired of re establishing the Constitution „
i- of 1791. He was here not attended by any fer- r ,
1- vants, but received frequent visits from a lady, who
y also took a passage with him for America. When t j
e Dumourier got apprized that the French deputies, t ]
imprisoned by the Austrian monarch, were tp be |,
t delivered to the French, he appeared to be sensible [,
e that there remained no hopes for him any more to
emerge in Europe."
The following is a continuation of the interesting tl
Intell'igemce contained in the Paris papers to the ni
j -2 2d of June, brought by the brig Ruby, Cap t\
Lloyd Jones, in 48 days from Bourdeaux, and u
t tranUated for tbe American Daily Adyertifer. 'C 3
C€
1 Extraß of a letter from Munich, June 6. p (
' An extraordinary courier is just arrived here
[ from liifpruek, with dispatches for Gen-WurmFer
[• g' ves the following news, and which has C
created much alarm. re
On the 2d instant the vanguard of the French an
' army was before the town of Trente, from whence fr<
the Prince Bifliop and the principal inhabitants im- th
| mediately took flight. The-fame alarm is spread to
1 the towns of Botzen and Brixen. ha
The result of the news is, that the French ar- Ci
m yr which has treated with nearly all the states of ve
Italy, and which dilated conditions of peace that
. none of them had the power to reftffe, is about to th
rect all its operations against the hereditary states Bt
of tin: House of Austria, and that a route is to be las
opened in Iftria and Tirol.
In the consternation caused by general terror, en
we know nothing positively of the arwiy of Beaa-' thi
lieu ; it is said .that he is encaujped at Campera crt
where he expe£h the tardy reinforcements which lea
he was promrfed from Vienna. ; nt
Letters inform us here, that the Empress of wi
Kuliia has guaranteed GalKcia to the House of -
Aullria, and thst Gen. Harnoncourt, who com
mands an army there, has been ordered on his da!
march, to join, as foot) as possible, the army of inv
ueneral Beaulieu. ;
It appear, decided that the Arch Duke Charles of
vy.ll follow the plans of the Marshal Clairfayt i„ ma
the present campaign ; and it is laid that the Auf. cot
triijn forces being much more considerable than
they were lalt year, the consequences mull be ad
bly'relaxed reP ° rtS ° f « ollfideia - J"'
DUSSELDORF, June 12. agi
e the ualon of the graud French army wi,h vcr
md that of Geneial JCichir-, it has procc'-dn! by forced
ofe marches; a part of the army under Gen. Wirtem
his berg, and his head quarter*, have beeti taken by
the the French ; the principal treasure of the Imperial
the army at Wifbaden, and all the magazines between
eli- tlifc Lahn and the Main, fufficient to maintain the
ler, irpublieah army for a month, have alio fallen into
rry their hands.
nly Generals Bernadotte and Cbampionnet have
ces blockaded Mayence on the two banks ot (he
on- Rhine, and General Lefebre is before Frankfort.
The Imperial army has pafled the Mein in great
ree halte. Gen. Marceauhas carried a new vidlory on
md the Glan, by forcing an intrenched camp which
nee the Aultrians had cftablifhed there.
On the 91b, General Morcau, having had iufor
of mation that the anny of Gt*n. Wurmfer, polled in
t. the mountains of Nieufladt, were making move
ac- ments to fall back towards Martnheim, and judging
of by thaiUlvat he could not support his polition, he
ro made an attack upon him in front and rear, with
ist the principal forces of the armies of the Riiine
ar- and Molelle. The issue of the coirbat is not yet
>ut known.
ar- FLORENCE, May 28.
his Citizen Miot, minister plenipotentiary of the
;ie French republic at our Court, departed on Monday
lad for Milan.
tiff We learn from Leghorn, that Adm. Jarvis con
to tinues to cruize off Toulon. He has sent some of :
he his ftips to Corsica to water.
>te The French minister at Genoa has pub'ifhed an
Iso adveitifement addreflfll to Frenchmen residing in
to the Batespf that republic, to the following effe<3 : 1
x- " The Executive Diredlory l»is fixed the prin- '
"ed ciples which ought to be attended to by Frenchmen 1
iat in foreign.countries. France, being a republic, I
of can acknowledge only those Frenchmen for citizens 1
■ly who accept of that form of government ; all others 1
he will be considered as proscribed. It is essential <
a- thai the republic of France ftiould bu assured of the
;ft fidelity of those of its citizens who are momentarily '
•ir lemoved from her territory, and who are allowed to *
iT' return at Oltrr pleasure.- The tn->,uU..wJ-covW e '
0• is the sign of this fidelity, and the wearing of it f
es cannot be dispensed with in any place whatever.—
or I declate therefore that 1 (hall 'acknowledge no •
ie Frenchman who bears not conitantly this cockade." £
r- BOLOGNA, May 25. t
I On Saturday lad, D. Azara, minister of his a
ae Catholic Majesty at Seig, arrived here from Rome, I
ns accompanied by the able Evangelist, firft officer of >
:ft the Secretary of State. The day before yesterday '
:i- he continued his route for Parma. It is said that I
ry he sent a courier from this place to the camp of the ]
e- French general, fixing Milan as the place for open- i
ing negociations relative to peace. t
RENNES, June 10. t
" General Hoche, who arrived here on the 20th T
from Laval, and yesterday set out for Vannes, has
lc charged me to inform you, that the Chooans of the
t . department of Mayence have followed the good
example of those of the departments of Maine 0
and Loire and Loire inferior, in giving up their a
arms, and in submitting themselves to the laws of I
o th* Republic. Nearly 2000 fy/ils have been de- J
Cf polited at Laval, and the disarming continues with
ie iuccefs
" The bande of ihe dtfwrtK.ntj fTf-ffie-arrtMrrt? "t
rn lame to surrender themselves, especially in b
3 f the diitrift of Baine ; the chiefs of those of the
diftrift of Rhedon amount nearly to 900 men, so f
that the armed and unarmed fpea'k of submitting. si
" The chiefs of the divifipn of Morbihan wished a
to have a conference on the 24th inft. with generals 3
r " Quintin and Mermet. General Hoche
h the molt happy success from ir. The design of a,
"> his journey to Vaunes, is to Xmooth the obllacles z
which may oppose themselves to the*furrender of ei
0 the Chouans of this department, or to puifue them
,n with greater fprrit than ever, if they persist in their c<
r " rebellion.
0 " All the operations of Gen. Hoche; the con- :1
n tinual marches of his columns, always diredted to
'» the points where it is the moll important to strike • n<
'I us P ri, dence in the combination of his plans, and m
his firmnefs 111 their execution, cause him to £uc
-0 ceed ;n his com-miffion beyond all hope. th
bctoofoon to hear of the submission
ot all the Chouans, who have so long desolated oc
? these unhappy countries ? perhaps the moment so d<
r much Wl(hed for is not far distant. The tranquili
■ ty_ enjoyed by the inhabitants of ihefe dep,rime, its G
4 which have already depofitsd their arms, very effi. of
cacioully seconds the efforts which General Hochc
ceafci not to employ to accomplish this great pur
pose. (Signed) «T. Hsoou villi." w!
e PARIS, June iS. ha
, Wi- learn from Cherbourg that the privateer Sans to
s C_u.otte, went out of that port on the 17th and
returned on the i 9 th Prairial, with the Enterprize M
1 an Enghfli cutter and a Jersey packet boat coming
: from Southampton, richly laden with plate and o
ther valuables.
. The Minister of the Marine and of the Colohies
have just learned from Rochefort, that on the ioih
• (.apt Barney, of the'Vengeur, brought in cl,Ven
F vends taken from the English.
: ii. °A,l he 'r r d J l7th were br «'Kht into Rocbelle
' r C » , uc f, " a " d the E,uamiia Queen, of
; Briflol ; the firft laden with hides and rallies : the
lalt with wheat.
It appears that whilst the Auflrians aredeftroved
en maje, the Euglifh commerce fuffers ia detail • for
there scarcely passes a day in which Republican
cruisers do not bring in some of their vessels We Be
learn t° day officially that there has been brought tor
Bo "' og " c ,wo —f™- <** ?»
- OFFICIAL. flj
Buonaparte has written to theDiredory, under bly
SeVed h' 20 ranal (JU " eB) that Mantua is a,lc
alreidv 7 V°u P V gCneral Serrurier "
afreadj master of the Faubourg of St. George and
; ; T ' le Aultrians op,
10 before our troops in the Palatinate, rep
June 22. ,
Tunc 'IT C ° Un< i il °. f Fivc Hundred, on the 9 th of /T,
June, Rouyer, , n the name of the Infpe&ir.f com- ed'i
agiutio" 6 '•'? : TliC faafons ceafc n °t their eafi
vererf , V r ", g 3 movemeilt h » 3 been disco- ]
J • -r,d it B-ould have been carried into efteift moi
ced but for the vigorous measures taken y tl 4e general
em in chief, who has marched his troopsinto the city
bv amongll the fecit!iaus. If the malcaHnts redou
;n'a! ble their efforts, lean assure you gwerument re
•eeri doubles its activity ; it is sure to delroy the sac.
the tions. A report which was sent to onr commif.
into lion, hy the Minister of Police, 'informed them of
the place of meeting ; twenty five brands, difgm.
,ave fed as Representatives of the People, mdeavoured
ihe to excite the inhabitants of the Fauxboirgs t0 r< ,
on. volt; their rallying cry was, To arms, ~ t ii^ enj ~0
i eat the members of the directory, to the the coun
on cil; down with these -villains !" This nwn'®, tl "*
lich commissaries of the feftions were sent to tic p\ ce .
but I repeat to the Council, that,the gmer nmetlt '
for- have taken allneceffary ileps hud if any mcvc TOe , lt
lin be attempted, the factions will be cruthed."
ive On the 2ttfof June, in the fame Council," » n tht
ing proposition of d'Efchafferiaux, the followim refa
he !«tions wera come to.
'itb I. There shall be given to the difpofm'on if the
ine Minifler of the Interior the sum of four trilliois to
yet serve as an encouragement to national manufaaires
principally to those of wool, lilk and cstton. *
2. One million of this sum to be made in W
the mediate advances to the manufaaurers of Lyois
Jay who (hall ttand in need <?f it to re-eftabliih their mi-'' s
nufaftures.
an- 3- Tha reft of the four millions to be employed
of for the encouragement of manufa&nrea of the pro
ductions of the foil.
an MADRID, May I.
in Tfiere ate arrived in the Andaloufie, sear fifty
a ; thousand men, a part of which seemed dellined to
in- reinforce the camp of St. Rocli, and perhaps it i,
,en said, to lay siege to Gibraltar, and the reft to em
it, bark either on board thefquadron.of admiral Solano
;ns ready to set fail for the Havannah, or on board 12
"rs vessels of the line which are arming in the Port of
ial Cadiz.
he We hear from Cadiz that there isarrived there the
ily St. Gabriel from the Eaft-lndies, and several other
to vessels richly laden with piastres. One of the con
vt,jr»-wppeiTS'a
it fix French vessels of the line, and four frigates —
_ The commandant of this divifon offered to the Spa.
no nifU vessels every succour in their power. This
good undemanding between the two nations, and
the preparations which are making for war in Spain
lis appear to have wrought a notable change in the dif
ie, Jjofrtions of the British cabinet. The Englilh pri
of vateers have contrary to the faith of treaties, taken
ay Spanish vessels, uot only on the shores iff Europe,
,at but on those of America ; but, for some time the'
he British Admiralty made rellitution for molt of these
n- vessels, so that England begins to find out that her
true interest connfls not in leaguing all the mari
time powers againll her despotism.
as BOSTON, Augufti2«
he IMPORTANT!
>d The following Resolution of the Lefhtive Body
ne of Franee. upon the sale of Maritime Prizes, was
:ir adopted on the Bth Floreal, May 27 afier Marboit't
of Report which was published in the Centinel of
e- July 20. - [Chronicle.!
ih —
. - .appeals from the decves of the
il- boards of trade (half be carried before tile civil tri
in bunals of the fame depar;hi«nt.
re Art. 2. ihe Consuls of the republic in the fj
(o reign ports, into which French prizes may be bra't
g. shall cause their chancellors to fulfil the formalities
;d attributed to the jufticcs of peace, by the law of the
Is 3d Brumaire.
; d Art. 3d. The Consuls and Vice-Confujs shall
if afterwards pronounce upon the validity of the pri
es zes, and they faall fulfil in that refpedt the duties
jf entl ulled to the boards of tra*de.
m Art. 4. The appeals from the decisions of the
ir consuls and vice-coiifuls, fliall be brought as those
from the boards of tradfe, before the tribunals di
1- the department, viz.
o from the Consuls eflablifhed on the Mediterra
; nean, before the tribunal of the department of the
d moutheof the Rhone.
From those eflablifhed on the north seas, before
the tribunal of the department of the North,
n I'rom those eflablifhed in the other portsofthe
d ocean, and in AMERICA, to the tribunal of the
0 department of inferior Loiie.
And from those eflablifhed beyond the Cape of
s Goud hope, before the ttibunal of the department
I- of Morbihan.
c
A Dutch Fleet of four 74's and four frigates,
was spoken March 9, in lat. 30, long. 14. They
had taken 23 English vessels. They were bound
s to Mauritius and Batavia. '
J ' '
e [While we are rj'miring with the warmest fatisfac
j tion every struggle which is made in asserting
and supporting the " Rights of Man," and
while we bitterly detest every despotic attempt
to keep these rights from our view, or abridge
1 them, we should recollect that NATIONAL
1 RIGHTS AND SOVEREIGNTY, are ai
inherent, lraprefcriptable and important, as ia»
: dividual. And with the fame sentiments that
f we view the exercise of despotism or infringe
ments upon the one, should we feel the like a
bufts on the other. J Bojlon Mer.
Lausanne, April 18.
■ Extra 3of a letter.
The firm and dignified answer of the Canton of
Berne, to the insulting note of the French Direc
tory, has inftjfed a spirit of unanimity i»
mind, and a spirit of vigor into every heart. There
is not a Swiss who does not swear to repel, and
flatter himfelf with the hope of revenging, agreea
bly to the invitation of the inhabitants of Bade,
and even of puni/hing, the aggression with, which
we are threatened by the French Republic.
It is impossible 10 form a just idea of all the mi
serable tricks which the Dire&Ory have played
upon the neighbouring dates. The ur.fortunate
republic of Geneva, which the French sffefted to
companionate, after the bloody scenes.to which
they had condemned her, is at this moment involv
ed in a dispute, which, whitnfical as it appears, oc
eafions her no inconsiderable alarm.
It appears that the French resident had beea
mortified-by a part of the answer of the Syndics to"his fpecch, onhis reception, in which said, rate to
f "'•> Whenwe (lull be able, in our turn, to cong>a- by folet
tulate you on the rcftoration of a general peace, of the I
"and on your internal prosperity m those happy mauder
tini'-s we shall both of u« forget the cruel scenes the ex.
which we have been doomed to witness, See." tate the
The French resident, by way of punishing them from th
for having deferred the congratulations which he mand, a
exDetted, to so distant a period, .presented them taclimei
with the tri-colored flag, accompanied by a demand, head of
that a kind of civic feftival should be celebrated on appea're
the day of its reception. The Syndics, who were j reudy
perfe&ly aware of the objeA of this demand, and J and fid
were fenfib'.c that such an absurd feitival might be j his m?
produ&ive of trelh disasters to the Rcpublie, and j the me
affront the coalesced powers, refufed to comply loss wh
with it. The French resident then threatened to advanti
quit the place, and to write to the French Direc- right t(
t„ry on the fubjeft ; but the Syndics replied, that, them,
in that ease, they should fend two deputies to Paris rit, wh
and so the matter ended, the national flag being fidence
received incognito. rals ' 1
When the Syndics went out of office on the 3d troops
of April, and rendered an account of their con- their d
dqft, they were tailed upon to explain this bufi- ! by a
ness. " The ceremony of the reception of this j guard
flag," said they, "was by bo means a rpatter of'-time,
indifference; and bn an objedl of this nature, it and to
behoved the Council to be circumfpeft, on account iuffcr f
of the fmallnefs of out Republic. Besides, the the wh
principles of Equality between natioHs rendered it proacl
a duty in us to purfuethe fame simple form* which u> 'he
were observed by the National Convention, at the perfua
reception of our flag.- It has bees deposited in cause
the temple of St. Peter, by the flags of out anci- con fid
ent allies, the worthy Cantons of. Zurich and folly t
Berne." . *' en g
The French resident took umbrage at this de- gr« c
claration ; he observed, that he could not avoid 'elf, a
fending it to the Ditedory, and that he could not that 1
answer for the cor.sequences. ™Bht8 ht
He .seems the more anxious to terrify the people Cx° vei
of Geneva, because they no longer affect to con
ceal the deep re»e«"~»~ 'W <« faience for the which
(hare which the French induced them to take in all pi
the revolutionary schemes which have disgraced wrtho
their territory. Since thje depattnre of the troops, race,
by which they were surrounded, for Italy, the spi
rit of the Genevefe hasrecoveied i'sformer vigour, and [
and renewed its attachment to the antient laws of we ca
the countiy. A proof of tiiis change was Vxhi- 'his 1
bited, in a particular manner, at the ele&ion o! c°mn
the new Syndics; for the chiefs of the revolution, the ti
who had the presumption to offer thcmfelves as «
candidates, were rejedted by an'iinmenfe majoiity ;
and the people chose four citizens, who, withouv
indeed being memb rs of the antient government,
are distinguished for their probity, and for the hor- Lett'
ror which they have invariably teftified at all the ' h
tranfa&ions of the revolution. 1
Their firft care was to bring to trial a man b) '
the name of Conte, secretary to the old revolu- £
tionary tribunal, who was accused of having Rolen _
or misapplied different fiims of money, during the 0 ■
collection of the forced lon. He was condemned w
to make amende honorable, with a lighted torch in
his hand-—a punishment which he underwent, t<> .
the great latisfaftion of the people, who fee with c ;
plealure, t*hat the iroinal author* ot the revolu- -
tioii will soon lie brought to trial. xi ..
_ V 'iV 1" .
BY THIS DAY'S MAILS.
1 - "■ Let
N£W-YORK, Augttft 18.
The Baron de Stael, Swedish ambassador in H
France, has publicly notified that all apprehensions '1
of a rupture between Sweden and Raffia arc at an arttl
end. , r r • Rliri
General Tatleton is returned member for .Liver- f ar
pool to the next British Parliament. the
Lord Hawkefbury (ci-d;vant Mr. Jehkinfon) WC
has been created Earl of Liverpool—a new title. ne ,
Ext'.a&of a letter fiom Kingflon, Jamaica, da'.e.. co[
July, 17, 1796. at
" Hismajefty's {hip Alfrsd, of 74 guns, brought
in here ye!l(rday a French Republican .frigate oi
4.4 and 250 men, called the Renommee, tak
en off Altevalla. She is a fine xew ship, and re- p r
markable fall sailer. She was taken in confequeucc
of her supposing the Alfred to be an East India- £,
rnatu with troops, as the Alfred's guns were hous
ed, when firfl she got fight of her. Monsieur gave
chace and came down boldiy until she was well m(
within gun (hot, when the Alfred luffed round and eu
gave her such a dose, as astonished Monfjsur, and m
fully convinced him he had got a Scotch prize." F,
Yefleiday arrived the Pearl, Capt. Jenkins, from th
Cork, from which place he failed on the 2d of f
June, and on the 3d in the morning, was brought t J
to and boarded by the British {loop of war Hazard, ar
Capt. Parker, who pressed 12 passengers and one tl
of the seamen. rr
Twenty-fix passengers arrived in the Pearl, War- C(
Ten. from Liverpool bound to Philadelphia ; the
ship Three Brothers, from Norfolk to L nddn,
and brig William, from Machia.s bound to Lisbon.
Yefteiday failed the elegant new ship Franklin,
H. Allen, matter, for England ; in her went fe- J
veral passengers, among others Mt. Jefle Brush, of
the honfe of- J. asdS. S. Brush of this city.
CONTJh UATIOK OF
Latest Foreign Intelligence. *
Received b\ the, Adelaide. t
MENTZ, May 31. I
The following general orders have been publish- f
ed to the Imperial array : t
11 The nnreafonable demands of the insolent 1
Government of France having dispersed all hopes t
for peace at present, and a new campaign becoming r
lieceffary, the armistice has been declared at an r
end by his Imperial Majesty, and hostilities will re. (
commence on the 31ft inft. between the hours of
eleven and twelve in the forenoon. His Majesty
having been p'iafed to confer on me the command | 1
of the army, at this ciitical period 1 feel it my duty ;
to exert all my powets, and I wish and hope, that
all the troops under my command, on whose brave
ry depends she happiness ot our native land, and
the obraining cf an honourable peace* may be ani
mated by similar zeal and patriotic sentiments, and
that they way vigorously and indefatigably co-ope-
Until
rate to gain this important object, to which I here- have m
by solemnly call Upon them. Reciprocal confidence other pi
of the troops in their commander, and of the com It ha
mauder in his troops, is the only means to favour armies,
the execution of this grand design, and to faeili and wh'
tate the fulfilling of duties so noble. Tills I service,
frpm the ar.'ny, wHkch 1 hire the honour to com- differen
mand, and 1 think I deferire it, by my sincere at- nerals h
tachment to them. lam proud of being at the ing plat
head of one of and best armies that ever Buona[
appeaT-ed in the field, ard which has in this war al- 27 fu>j
j rev'.y given so many proofs of courage, braveiy, rations
• and fidelity. Withivit partiality for the troops of pursuit
■ ; his majesty's hereditary dominions : I shall value Feat
i | the merit of any ipdividual, and feel alike at any lia of 1
loss whatever. Oar situation, our views, and our closed i
1 advantage#, are so clofcly conncfte'd, that all have a worKec
. right to exped in the lame degree, my regard for ers.
, them. We mult all be animated by the fame fpi
i rit, which is founded on reciprocal eftrem, anjJ.con- "aP
p fidence originating from experience.—The Gene- ■
rals, I hope, will endeavor to heighten, in the Qn (^e
1 troops under their commind, the compliance to i n^t
_ their duty, by flrong sentiments of patriotifui, and Mincio
. i by a noble impulse for honour an(V glory—to fall bat
s ■ guard them againlt that enthusiasm of the present but we
f Uime, which serves to seduce the public opinion,
t ! and to dissolve the bonds of society ; they will not J
t fuffcrfingle members to undermine the firmnefs of inac je 1
e the whole body by unguarded words, premature re- an d Ni
it proach., and political quarrels ; they will maintain proper
h in the principal part of the German nation a firm own A
c persuasion, and a warm feufe of thejuflice of our have b
n cause ; a"nd they will establish in the private foldiet a !
j. confidence in his commander and in himfelf. It is
d folly to despise an enemy, at least in regard to his -phis r
'Atength and valour : but it is also the highest de- o ns; a
gree of pusillanimity to value him more than one's preven
d (elf, and to ascribe to him a superiority of which to rect
)t that enemy given no ptoofs whatever—We tn^ u "
fight for every thing that is dear to us, Religion, I
| e Government, Property, rtal Political Liberty, Or y^ ct
n . der aod Laws, against the attacks of a nation, g U i n ai
le -Jtfhieh tramples on all the bonds of fociet), deflroys inflnei
[n all property, and which attempts, wttTiSTTC"fai!hi~ feroci
■J without r*ligion and confciencc, to ruin the human j then.
, S) race. Wc fight for ,th<viights of civilized nations : |
,j. Germany has confided to us the care of her welfare j S
and preservation ;we mull fulfil her expedta.ions— j
of we can, we will doit. The Field Maiflial takes ; t ] le
a . this opportunity to acquaint the troops under his jan ad
o( command with his sentiments, and to assure them of this I
,H the full confidence he places ill the known abilities ' aws
as iif their Commanders, and in their own valour." ■ "t-u'eh
y ; " THE ARCH-DtTKE Charles, Field Marshal." ert
'Ui - at tin
Tt, PARIS, Jnne. 16. • Freni
3r . Letter from General MO RE AU, commander in on of
he chief ofihe army of the Rhine, and Moselle, to damn
the Exe< utive Directory. t0
at Artebeim, 21 Prairiai (Jnne <).) ln 1,1
| u ; . Lad night the enemy evacuated Tripftad, Key
|eil ferlautern, Newfladt and Sp res, and have retired yj
t | ie to the environs of Manhcim. In puffiling the n tion
led we iave la ' len between 150 and 200 prifotiers. hour
j (i The aimy at present occupies the polition of thee
to Speyerbach. Head-quarters this day will be tranf
; t |j fered to Edickhosfen. By the next courier 1 (hall pj
»lu- vc y°» farther fiarticuLivs of our fittration. .Du <•
1 ing three days 1 have not been from off my horte. cami
_ Never were our affairs in lb good a train 011 the Oer:
Rhine.
(Signed) MOREAU.
Letter from the Commissioner HAUSSMAN to
the Executive Diieitory.
• n Head-Shiyters at Artz-im, 29 Prairiai (June ().)
ions The Aufttian army, which so bravely broke the w | u
tan armistice, runs in full fpeei without firing a fit.gle g ei ,
gun. Our advance guard pulhed on yesterday, as beei
ver- f ar a3 Durckhjiim, without being able to overtake t° a
them. Kayferlauterw, Neuftadf and Spires, are 1 ®
son)
occupied by our troops. About a hundyd prifo- vc
neiG were taken by our Generals, who were re- we
ated connoitriug the enemy. These prisoners are joyful arn
at this adveuture, which (hews to what a pitch of Lul
B g*'t difcouiagement their arfny has arrived.
e of; (Signed) HAUFFMAN.
tak an(
i re- From a printed handbill, received from Bourdeeiux var
leticc by the Di/palch. P r<
ndia- Extraftof a letter from Beaulieu to the Council of
houf- 1 v the Emperor.
gave «« I demanded of you a General, and you sent COl
well me Argenteau. I know that he is a gfeat feign- all
d and e u r , and that, by way of recompense for the judg- wi
, and ments I have pafftd against hien, he is-to be made
e." Field Marshal of the Empire. , I forewarn you,
from that I have 110 more than 20,000 men, and the c f
2d of French have 60,000 —that 1 (hall Jly to-morrow, i n
aught tie day after to-morrow, and every day, until 1 th
izard, arrive into Siberia, if they pursue mci My age au- m
i one thorifes me to speak the whole truth. In a word, co
make the utmolt haste to conclude a peace, on any
War- conditions whatever." , ' w
; the LONDON, June 17. Pj
"n ' gy the proceedisgs of the Council of five hun-
, n " dred, which we yesterday laid before the public, it C(
" "j' 1 ' is plain that France still is divided by patties. In t >
"n C £ overthrowing Robespierre, both Terrorists and Mo- ti
, ° derates united ; the present government was then o:
formed chiefly of the modere Terroifts, who, at l e
its institution were the predominating party. They ?
were oppofedboth by the Moderates, and the most
' violent of the Terrorists, but they have reconciled c
the former by gradually adopting their system, and f,
have diminished the oppositions of thelattet, by
üblifh- v j n g employments to all who would accept of f<
them. The prudence and success with which the d
nfolent Directory has fteertd between these two patties ; »
I hopes the fl<ill it has shewn in gaining their friendfhip, or
:oming reducing to infigiiificance the'dangers of their en- f
at an raity, proves the wisdom and policy of the French f
will re- Government, much more than the victories on the c
>urs of Rhine or in Italy.
yinjefty We are ferry to observe the little reason there is
mmand | to hope for a speedy reconciliation between two
ry duty great personages.. There is no doubt that the gen- f
e, that tleman has acted witii great impropriety towards I
: brave- his wife, and that the lady has behaved with some '
nd, and degree of peevilhnels towards her husband ; but we
be ani- are well assured their personal disputes might have
us, and been accommodated, had it not been for thejealou
co-ope- fies and livalfhip of the gentry of the houfhold, who |
have made discord between man and wife for no ,'s upon
other purpose but to extend their own influence. and En|
It has been the cuftomto employ as leaders of The
armies, none but men who had grown grey in arms, ed to tr
and whose experienee had been purchased by long The
service, The French, however, haye adopted a here on
. different policy. Many of their molt famous Ge- Buon
nerals had seen little service previously to their be- Genoa;
■ ing placed at the head of their armies ; and General has sent
r Buonafiarteaffords an example of a young man of Rhine ;
. 27 futpaffinj the oldell Generals in vigour of ope- lie. F
rations ; in intrepidity of attack ; in celerity of have be<
f pursuit ;in iiilitaiv flcill, frience and experience. taking ;
; Feathers lave Taken flight from the parapherna- will not
r lia of our fashionable Belles. The head is now en- Letl
r closed in a jjold or silver net, or rnuflin turban, infurgei
a worjeed withlilver, witn artificial flow- the vie
t era. confirm
June 20. —
It appears that Prince Charles has sent a reinforce
mcnt to the Prince of Wirtemburg, with a view to C ' A "
enable him to check the farther progress of the enemy
e on t i»e Ifthn. '
0 In Italy, as was before stated, Buonaparte croflcd the
d Mincio on the 17th ult. and forced the Auftrians to
o fall back, with the loft, as he aflerts, of 2000 men; g,.j
it but we know this assertion to be falfe, as Col. Graham,
, in his letter to Lord Grenville, represents the number c ° n
' of Auftrians killed and wounded as not exceeding 300
men. The Colonel alio mentions a fuccefsful attack Sloop
made upon the French by a detachment of Austrian Jum
and Is eipolitan cavalry, which Buonaparte has thought j n W |,J
In proper to fupprets, as well as the capture of one of his „ atcs .
m own Aids-de-Camp, and his lol's of men, which must
lr have been considerable. , . , '
It appears too, trom both these statements, that Pu- " n g u(
E -' onapartc has failed in his main attempt, which was, weeks,
! s to cut off the retreat of the Auftrians to the Tyrolele. Currai
' s This retreat has been secured, in spite of all his exerti
e- ons; and General Beaulieu is now so situated, as to *X"h<
:'s prevent the entrance of the French into Germany, and j>j antu
:h to receive reinforcements from the neighboring coun
tries of Carniola and Carinthia. , hi
Buonaparte's own account of his condufl in fuppref- w * ®
ling the attempt of the people to throw ofi the iron > h
ycjteot the French, is such as proves him to be a fan- gane,
' n > guinarv Tyrant, fesking to enforce obedience by the Tli
ys influence of terror) and truly worthy to lead a horde of o g an e
h,~ ferocious banditti. His maflacre, in cold blood, of all
an the n.agiftrates and civil officers of Pa/ia —his deter- ,
s. I minatioi) to reduce that beautiful city to aflies, if a fin- ou
' gle Frenchman had been slain in the laudable attempt to
11 e j er.flave the inhabitants ; the conflagration of a whole
j village, because the peasants had taken up arms ; and Barqu
tes • the Daughter of a hundred' of them was not deeemed Brig
his ' an adequate punishment to fatisfy the vengeance of I
of i this Republican leader ; the oppressive and tyrannical Schoc
ies ' laws nqpofed 011 the inhabitants «f the Milanese ; — Sloop
I ail exhibit, in a llrong pqint of view, the profligate Ca
~, cruelty ami abominable despotism of a man, who has days
liberty and fraternity cqnftantly in his mouth ; and, ug t
at the fame time demonltrates the real projects of the p ren
French government, whose ambitious l'pirit, in violati
'in on of all the pacific principles they have so loudly pro- ° llr '
to claimed, leads them to grasp at universal empire, and Capt
to fettle tr.eir Uepublicau throne, not in the hearts, but Molt
Q I in the blood of vanquifbed nations. g ates
j" BRUNSWICK, May 29. rope,
' . Extract of a piivatc letter.
red yjjg f o n oW i n g ; s ;hc: tenor of the letters of convoca- ..
le n t ; on addVelfedby the king of Pruflia, as duke of Magde
bourgh, ami of the duko of Brun'.wick, as co director of t ' c ' «
of the circle 6f Lower Saxony, to the different flatss deftir- mew
f_ cd to enjoy the advantages of the neutrality—
, ~ •< We, tfy th-Grace of God, Frederick William King of
Pruflia, Charles Wtlliampake of Brunfvvick, &c. Th '
Du " l'*,; r,.—'w ninj'; or a ilc'Vv 11
U'lc. campaign with Trance, ana the new dangers to which Ct re
the Germany will be v.xpoftd by the chance ot a war that has ton,
already been 16 r atal to her, have determined us, the w |fe
king, in confnjuence of our solicitude and patriotic at- j« tuj
tachment, and in confequenc: of the pacific relations
sj Jo "which we maintain with Franc ,to difiri'oute as much as
polfible ts our co-estates of the North, the ineflimable
. blcflings of rcpofc and security from the troubles and TS
I'y misfortune? of war ; tfiat is to fay, as far as these State* J[ j
: tlie will on their part accord with ovr inten ions which are of
t.gle gei eral utility. To this end negociations have already, [, etv
y, as been entered into with the French government relative may
take to a new line of neutrality ;ant in order to be able with
~r e the more efficacy to assure that neutrality, and to afford
,' r protcAionf and fafety to the States comprised within it,
"* wc the king are ready to march a considerable army, and
: rc wethe duke have also taken a resolution to reinforce that
ayful army with our troops, the cle&oral court of Brunfwick "Tj 1
*h of Lunenburg having also manifeftcd the fame intentions. I j
These combined troops being therefore to proted the Wil
neutrality of the north of Germany, it is as just as it is J
absolutely indispensable, that they iliould be provided 1
and provifion<.d by the States which (hall enjoy this ad- Stal
Jedux vantage, and that t'.ich, individually, fliould hasten in —
proportion to its means to procure them the neceff;>ry
JJ of provisions But this object requires, on account of the
urgency of circumstances, the most Ipeedy dispositions.
The most proper means for attaining this end, is by the I
sent convocation of a common and extraordinary assembly of 68
feign- all the Upper States, of the Circles of Lower Saxony —
judg- with the States of the Lower Rhine and of Westphalia,-
made a ' well as of the other States that shall be comprised in
the line of neutrality, in order that we may be abU to de
y""' liberate upon this fuhjed, and "o regulate the distribution
'" e of the maintainance ef the troops upon an equitable foot- _
irrow, ing, proportioned to the faculties of each State; tor on rr
ntil 1 the speedy furnifliing of the objeds necessary for this u
ye au- maintainatiiie, will alone depend the maintenance of the
~ : common fafety of the North of Germany. t;
worn, „ q- llofe) therefore, whose territory is comprised in 1
>n an y the said line of neutrality, and which, consequently, Cc
will enjoy the benefit of this proteaion, boing princi
pally implicated in this cafe, we have, in our quality
* hun Prince and Director of the Circle of Lower'Saxo- pj.
:,. Ny, addressed to them conjointly the present letter of „•
"ic> it convocation, in order to unite tlum to assemble, by
s - their deputies, furnilhed with the necessary inftruc
d Mo- tions, 011 the 10th »f the monthtof june, in the town
is then of Hildeflein. We have no doubt that they atknow- 1
ho, at ledge, in its full extent, the urgency of the cafe, and
TKev a<^''a ' conjviniSlions as well as the importance it jj.
,1 is to procure to the North of Germany security and
e n ' u , repose ; and that in consequence they will adhere and
onciletl contl iuute every thing that can attain the common end,
m, and fufficiently in time to avoid being surprised by danger,
et, by «' We, the King, shall depute to the common As
,-ept of fembiy of the State,, our intimate Counsellor de Dohm,
ich the directorial minister to the circle of the Lower Rhine
allies • Weltphalia, and Plenipotentiary to the Electoral a
, • ' Court of Cologne, furniihed with necessary powers ;
up, or we entreat, very amicably, th.s Assembly to give I
heir cn- f rort! t his ti*ie faith apd confidence to all that he may i
French propose on pur part, upon the l'ubjcci of the affairs in 11
on the queflion.
April, 2X. 1
there is PARTS, June 18.
:n two The King of Spain lias puDlifhed a proclamation
he gen- forbidding all tribunal*, even the inquisition itfelf,
towards from constraining the French in their religious
h some worship. In the fame proclamation he declares '
but we that he will acknowledge as Frenchmen only those
ht have who fhal! wear the tri-coloured cockade. This
: jealou- oruer is dated the Ift of May.
»ld, who J The best informed men are of opinion that war
i .r jr\ «#•
•';v. - | J -f> /
is upon tlie point of being declared betwixt Spain
and England.
The King of Naples has two envoys here, charg.
Ed to treat for-peace with the Dire&(i'y.
The Duke of Parma has two plenipotentiaries
here on the fame business.
Buonaparte has already sent f<ven millions to
Genoa ; 4 ten millions more are yet to arrive. He
has sent more than two millions t® the array of the
Rhine ; that of Italy costs nothing to the Repub
lic. Fatigued, after so many victaiies, which
have been like so many rapid marches, he is now
taking a little breath. We believe, however, he
will not be long before he resumes his career.
Letters from Leghorn (peak of the Coifican
, insurgents as having fcized upon Baftia, and taken
the viceroy Llliott. ihi# news, however, wants
confirmation.
GAZETTE OF T.HE UNITED ST.ITES MARINE LIST.
T ■ ■
PHILADELPHIA, A*g«Jt 19.
ARRIVED.
' Brig Minerva, Long, Cadiz 56
r Schooner Two Brothers, Norton, Boston I a
„ Sally, Griffin, New-York 3
k Sloop Two Friends, Parker, New London 4
n June 29, off the Western Ifhmdscapt. Long fell
' in with an English fleet i(f 61ailofthe line, 2 fn
'* gates and a fire (hip, and was boarded by the Phse-
L ton frigate, one of the fleet. They had been etui
j. ling between that Ration and cape St. Vincent's 6
5, weeks. In lat 33, long. 41, spoke (hip.Nancy,
e. Curtan, from Cadiz bound to New York,
i- BOSTON, Augull 15.
0 The fliip Joanna, Capt. Fofdick, has arrived at
Nantucket, from the coatl of Peru, after a two
1 years voyage, with iioobbls. sperm. and 400 of
•f. whale oil.
)ii The Ann, Capt. Gibbs, from hence, is at Leo
n- gane, libelled.
he The Arr.ie, of this town, is condemned at Le
°u ogane.
3 The Britannia, Capt. Yciung, of North-Yar
n" mouth, is in at Leogane, for trial.
t0 Arrivals at Ne<u>*Yorh.—AvguJi 18.
Die BAYS
nd Barque Letitia, , Turks-Island,
,ed Brig Pearl, Jenkins, Cork, 7°
of Peggy, Lawrence, Amlterdam, 03
cal Schooner Succels, Hodgkins, Wilmington, 5
— Sloop Polly, Nichols, St. Croix, *4
ate Capt. Bunker, of the barque Letitia, in 12
has days from Turks-Island, has obligingly informed
us, that previous to his arrival at that place, two
I ' lc j French frigates passed the island; and that a few
1 hours before he failed, a brig, commmded by a
U1 j Captain Spraggs, arrived therefrom Cape Nichoia
but I Mole, bringing intelligence, that the abeve sri-
I t,ates had fallen in with an English fleet from Eu-
I rope, urtder convoy, ane had capturcd a confidera-
I l»le number o( them.
j Ca;«t, Leader, of the brig Betsey, which arriv
'r of ] ed here lalt Tuesday in 13 days from St. Bartholo
lir-J mews, informs, that on the 25th July, in long.
I 56, 0, lat. 8, 46, he spoke the Sea Nymph, Ha
?°M llcy, of Philadelphia, captured by the prrvateer
newi Thomr.s, B.>f«iell r and was carrying her into
(iich I Grenada ; and the ship Lydia, Chapman, of Bof
hasl ton, Blfo captured and deflined for Grenada. Lite- ■
the I w ;f e a numbet of pther Ameiican vessels, similarly
. at " I situated.
:10ns I _____
able . INFORMATION
and I TS given daily of the drawing of tbe WASHINGTON
tates 1 LOTTERY, at the Office
re ot I No. 147 Chefnutjlrect,
eadyj between Fourth and Fifth streets. Also, where Tickets
ative I ma y yet be had. Aug. 15. eo
w ' t^l l The Thirteenth day's drawing is arrived.
fford I
"and I FOR SALE,
; that I A Complete Font of Brewer,
wick J T?Ntirely ne\», and yet unopened. The weight of this
tions. j font is about 31a lb. It is from the Foundery of
L the I Wilson & Sons, Ghfgow, and will be fold at cost & charges,
it Is 1 Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
vided I Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the United
s ad-J States, 119 Chefnut-ftreet. Aug. 19 §4w
in in I
fll\ ARISTOCRACY,
tions. j An EPIC POEM,.
y the I In 1 Cantos, may be had at B. Davies's Book-Store, No.
bly of I 68 High-ftrcet. Aug. 19 §6t
axony J - —
)halia,l A STATED MEETING OF
tod" American Philosophical Society
juiion WILL be held at their Hall this Evening at 7 o'clock,
efoot- AU S- '9
UNITED,STATES >
of the Pennsylvania District, 3
IN pursuance of a Writ to me directed from the Honour
able Richafd Peters, Esquire, Judge of the Diflrift
lently, Court of the United States for the Pennsylvania Diftrid,
irinci- Will be exposed to Public Sale,
juality t ] lc Merchants' Coffee-Houfe, in the City of Philadel-
Saxo- phia, on Monday, the 29th day of August, iuftant, at 14
tter of o'clock at noon,
' le ' ty The SLQOP called the
e town R.EB ECC A,
know- With all and singular her tackle, appa
e, and re j ah( j Furniture, as the fame now are ; the said iloop
ance it having been condemned, to pay Mariners' wages, &c.
T and WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
re and ftforfhal's Office, 19th August, 1796.
langerl Sale,
ion As The SLOOP
°Hhine Friendship,
leifloral T?URTHEN 300 Barrels or 140s.
owers "' bushels Coal, an excellent frame,
to eive Live Oak and Cedar, and well found with cables, anchors
he mav & c - f° r —now lying ut Almond-flreet. wharf, Tho-
Sairs in mas Penrofe's. The terms will be made reasonable.
Apply to the Owner, No. jll south Front-street, next
door to Jonathan Penrofe, I'fq Aug. 19 feo4
To be fold,
Twelve Months Credit,
-liirious If a PP licd for immediatcl ) r >
declares One Hundred Thoufa?nd Dollars,
y those And one hundred and eighty thousand acre of good
This LAND,
In the flats »i Virginia. Apply to the Printer.
3at war Aug»ij . • • 5No. .r^4-
iisl of to wit.
HE »t Remembered on the 23d Hay cf May, in the
twentieth <}f the Independence of the United States
ot America, Francis Shallus, ot the laid diilrift
dtpofitea in this office,'the title of a book, the"right whereof
he claims as proprietor in the words following to wit THE
DISAPPOINTMENT, or THE FORCE Or CREDULI
TY, a new Comic Opera in three a&s, by Andrew Barton,
Elq. 2d edition reviled arid corre&ed with large additions by
the author."
" Enchanting gold ! that a oft conspire.to blind,
4< Mans* erring judgment and misguide the mind,
" search of thee, the wretched worldling goes,
41 Nor dangers fears, tho' fiends of night oppose."
In conformity to the aft of the Congress of the United
States, entitled " An aft for the encouragement of learning,
by fecuriqg the copies of and books to the auth®rs
and proprietors of such copies during the times iherein men
tioned. Samuel Caldwell, Clk Dift Penn.
The, above Optra tviU be publiflied in the ceurfc of two or three
Vt'ks. July *1
F Q R SALE,
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED *T IVI 7" TENH AM> situate in the
township of Upper Derby, andcounty of Delaware,
71-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
new Western road: containing 230 acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reil arable of tha firft quality. There are
on thepremifes a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front ; a large frame barn, ftabfes,
and other convenient buildings; a smoke-house and itone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from theJiigh
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
deceafedj and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Q<st. 9. eo.] Surviving Executor.
Mr. FRANCIS,
(Of the New Thcatrt)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
scholars.and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any promises of conducing his future
ichemes on the most liberal and itri&eft terms, of pro
priety, totally unnecessary.
N. B. Private tuition as usuaL
J unc 3 law
To be fold,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Gloucester, aad ilate of New-Jersey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
tion of which, is woodland and improved meadow. A
great part of the arable land is in a high state of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover.
Onfaid plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
heufe. The garden is large, and contains a good coliec
tion of the best kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees ;
the orchard consists of about three hundred grafted £pp'e
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premises, may
be informed of the terms by applying to
Andrew Hunter:
;
To BE —S©ir&, —
At IVo. 128, North Second-Street, and by fevered oj
the Apothecaries in this City,
TRANSFERS of the right to remove pains and inflamma
tions from the human body, as secured to D r. ELISHA
PERKINS, by patent, with inftrirments and directions ne
ceflaiy for the practice. This mode of treatment is particu
larly ufeful in relieving pains in the head, face, teeth, breast,
fide, ftornach, back, rheumatisms, recent gouts, &c. &c.
Kotwithftanding the utility of this practice, it is not pre
sumed but there are cases in which tni« and every other
remedy may sometimes fail.
June 18, *aw
■ ————— r
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TCKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
•Check Books kept for examination and refiftering, for
the City of Washington, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes'exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Motel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
llie fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Baiik Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lauds,
&c. or to obtain money on dcpofit of property.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Auguf. IS, >796. taw
Treasury Department, Augujl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN purfuarfte of an aft of Congress, passed on the 18th
day of May, 1796, entitled " A» a<st prpviding " for
the sale of the lands of the United States, in the Territo
ry north 1 weft of the river Ohio, and above the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the fc&ions or lots of land descri
bed in the annexed schedule, lying in the seven ranges qf
townships, which were surveyed in pursuance of an ordi
nance of Congress, passed on the twentieth day of May,
in the.year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five,
will be exposed forfale at Public vendue, in the town ot
Pittlburgh ia Pennsylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
Otftober next, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the firft day ofDecember enfuiag,unlefs'the said lots (hall
be sooner fold, in the manner, and on the terms and con.
ditions herein after mentioned, to wit:
ift. The said feiSions or lots shall be fold under the di
rection ef the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter
ritory "and such person as the Preiiuent of the United
States may fyecially appoint for that purpose.
2d. The said fe&ions or lots shall be fold to the highest
bidder, but no sale can be made for less than two dollars
per acre of the quantity of land contained in such lot or
leilion.
3. The highest bidder as before mentioned, must depo
sit at the time ef sale, one twentieth part of the purchase
money, in the hands ps such person as the Prelident of the
United States shall appoint to attend the sales for that pur
pefe, which will be forfeited, if a moiety of the sum bid,
including the said twentieth part, Ciall not be paid within
thirtydays from the time of sale. /
* 4th. Upon payment of a moiety of tha purchase money
in the manner before mentioned, the purchaser will be
entitled to one year s credit for the remaining moiety ;
an. lhall receive from the Governor or Secretary of the
Western Territory, ana the person who shall be appointed
by the President of the United States, to direct the fales,a
certificate dticribmg the lot or fe&ion purchafed,and de- ,
daring theftini paidonaccouut, the balance remaining due, 1
the time when such balance becomes payable, and that
the whole land therein mentioned, will be forfeited, if the !
«►
fa:U balance is not then paid ; but if the Rid balance shall
be duly difcharged,by paying rise fame to the Treasurer of
e the United State*, the purchaser 01 his affigr.ee or other
•s legal representative, Shall be entitled to a patent for the
said lands, on his producing to the Secretary of State a re-
ceiptfor such balance endorsed upon the certificate. But
if any purchaser Avail make payment of the whole of the
" purchase money, at the 'time wh .n the payment ot the
jirft moiety is directed to be made, he will be eititled to a
deduSian often per centum on the part for wnch a cre
-dit is authorized to be given; and his patent Hall be'im
mediately issued.
Given under my hand at Philadelphia, tie day and
year above menti»ned.
d OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary ef the Treasury
Schedule of feSions of toionjhips, or fraStlrial parts
of town [hips, to be fold at Piti/iurgh, v pursuance
of the 6th fe Elton of an afl of Congress, passed on
the 18th day of May., <796.
O \ 0 'e •
■ J, CO co 2
,e I—l 1 £ -= u .5
•s 1 & on t t Bm.
d<so< 2 o < 2
r 11 « !z
1, . .—. ■ ■ -rmir ——: —~—: — -
l " ift Range. 6th Range.
e rst Townlhip. Bai2 640 each' iftTownlhip.
28 ' 5 65 14 640 ,47 320
19 256 95 17320 640 eacl; iS 270
I' 3c 250 75 25336 64oeach 2r 850
*' 34 240 90 BthTownfhip. 1 22 166 40
' 35336 640 each 3ai4j64oeach ;23 427
2d Township 17 a2O 640 each : 24 640
19 140 23 [640 i 27 151 80
20 T7o 70 25a3oj64oeach 28a30640e3ch
h 21 185 33336 64c each 3 J j 8
e 22 2 3<5 lothTownfhip. 336 640 each
a 25 488 80' ia2 1640 each 2d Township.
26327 640 c*3ch 5 3i4;640e3c1i l 1126
1, 28 560 17320640 each 2 '440
29 551 60 23336)640 each 3 . ; 448
30 564 12th Township. 4 '45.6
2~i»3i 640 each 1314 64c each 5 ,464
4thTownfhip. 17220 64oeach 6 1472
19 64 233361640 e3ch 7 14°
, 4thRrNGE. 64° each
26 387 60 lftTown|hi i7«o 640 each
36 —~r ; 3-5-25° QiOjsaca.
31332 6 4 oeach * ?o To^rfhip.
33 616 * 9 b , ib 50 1 470
e •" 30 640
34. 445 20 , 2 478
t' 3 { "A J ° 35 a MO each 3 485 i
3, 16 „ 20 2dTownlhi P . 4 W
sth Township. j 502
6 3a6 640 each 6 , .
12 479 3° _ j 0 7*14640 each
17 304 15 o , i 17320 640 eacU
18 63850 ' 3 , 23336 640 each
23 45c 75 sthTownfhip.
1- 24 640 -J , iS 1 jig
l ~ 29 184 - , , 2 526
, 17120 54c each
V 50 o 23336 640 each 3 534
, 35 3 2 a4T 4 540
== 13141640 each; i
:, 2d Range. 17320 64c|eacb ,-J ,
rift Township. 23336 640 each; I , 4 ' eaC ,
o .iTt' /i- 1732064 c each
- 28 j7 20 sthTownfh.p , 4 ceath
34 ! 65© iai464o each; H« .
> 3d Town'hip. t7a2o|64o|each '
24326)64: each 233361640 each '
y 28 499 16 7thTown(hip. j 40
29 64c ia2 640 each .
3 Ta 33 64° each 537 640 each 4 5 s °
4thTown(hip. 12313 640 each ,
11 126 40 ißai9 640tach . „ 0I ,
» T397 J 540 '
/ 13 51 50 30236640 each /•z 4Ceai "e
15 »7 50 9ATownfhip. 3 40
16 259 20 iai4 64oeach ' ownlhip.
,7 524 I 7 a2o64oeach »M«4°je«h
18 640 23336 64oeach
I" 19 635 nth Townlhip' ? 3a , 3 V 64 °I ach
20 584 80 1a 14 640 each
.. 21 636 21 17320 640 each 4 L 4CtaC e
t 22336 64c eaeh 23336 64oe3ch ,| 4 °, eac^
jthTownfhlp. i3thTownfhip. i« h
j 1314 640 each: I3th > T i r n | fh,P^
637 64s «3ch 173201640 each, al 4 >4Cjeach
«.36 6«,.ch
: 3 ;sfrJ£JS
■\6m\ 4 ® x each
BthTownfhfp fI7 50 *3f»36^4o;each
;, ias 64oeach 3 J s ° 7th Range.
e 6 440 2 £ ill Township.
n 73l 4' 640 each JQ 30 |4J 20
17 320 640 C3 C h 2 g 3« !132 50
r 23336!6 4 0|e3ch }9a3o64oeach 2dTownfhip.
9? Townlhip. Jg j 35
6 . 640 32 584 80 4 t
I* Sf2 30 3^36'64ceach a 6 64 5 each
11 4C , 2dTowrf(hip. 9 296
13314 640 ?3ch 4 tgo) ioai2 64c e3ch
I9 a 2o 640 each 14 30
23336 640 each J7aiS 640 each
3d Range. 5 456 I 9 * 4
»d Township. 6 464 80 * ' ,
15 640 7 2J. 23 * 24 64 °" ch
1 16 600 8 618 > 8c ,
r 20 557 50 9ai4 640 each 040 " c
- 21322 640 each 17320 64c each t
f .3-609 23 336 6 4 oe3ch; " 4cca^
j 25a36 64ceach 4th townlhip. ! 5 A 4 ° eaC .
f 3dTowiifhip. iai4 6 4 o|each 23a3^ 64c ". ch
9 i«8 60 17320 640 each 6th fownfhip.
10 344 13336 6 4 c4ach »J4 « 4 oeach
a 11 267 6thTown(hip. I 7 each
12 152 1 3i4 6 4 oe3ch ; 23a^ 640 " C h
1 14 202 50 17320 640 each SthT °wnfhip.
1 15 630 23336 64c eschj lal 'i '4ojeach
16318 6 4 oe3ch BthTownfhipJ I 7a2c6 4 ceach
19 2t7 50 l a t 4|6 4 o.each; 23a3^4ce3ch
20 616 75 17320 64c.|each w 1 Township.
21336 640 e3ch 23336164 c Ij3ch 1 314 640 tach
1 4thTownihipJ lothTownfhip. 1 r 7 a 2o 4oe3ch
1 170 111464 c 336 640 each
I 2 544 i 7 32c 640 each' I2thl"wn{h'P
s 3 23336 64c»eacb lai 4
r 4 450 ixthTownfhip. 1 J 7 a2 4cpach
5 I2e 13i4'16 4 c|ea c h l l3 Vt 4C '^ h
6 64c 17320 64c each' I4th 1
7 564 23 a lai #4oi*ach
Ba9 64c each !i4thTown(hip. J 7 a2 o 640 each
' 10 54c go ; iai4|64oieachj t 3 a 3»
' 11 519 70 64c each!
I2ai4 64c each each lal 4
173.2 c 64c each I I 7 64o.each
e 2 3a36j640 each | I a 36 6 4 o|each
; NOTE.
e THE quantities of Lands in the federal townships be- i
d fore mentioned, are exclusive of the Lots reserved by the
a United States and aifo of those formerly fold—The az
- gregate quantities in the several townlhip, 0r fradiontl
parts of townships, have been ascertained by a&ual fur
* vey ; the quantities in particular lots or fe«ion», have
e been n. othwwife afcittainod thw by calculation.
Philadelphia, W'e/l Cheter, Stnjlurgbs,
Lane after, York and Frederick-town
STAGES.
THE proprietors of the above Stages, retorn their bcfi
thanks to their friends and the public in for
the encouragement received in this line of hufuiL. , And beg
leave to inform the public, tfeaMhey arc determined to run
their ilages through from Philadelphia to Lartcifrer in
one day, commencing on the 14th July instant,
in the following manner,—viz. 1 .Stags will set out on
that day at 4 o'clock in the mornhg, from (he house ot
George We'd, Market ft net, PHiadelphia, and run by
the way of V/eKcneftcr and Strafbu.oli, arrive in Lancal
ter the fame evening, on Friday n-.orting run to Wright s
ferry and exchange pafTengers with tie York and Fredej
ick-town flage, return and arrive i.' Philadelphia on Sat
urday, an'd ou Monday morning following, at 4 o'clock,
said ft age willfet ou' from the said Gaorge Weed's, Phila
delphia, and arrive at I.ancaftcr the fame evening, on
Tuesday morning at 4 o'ciack will fct out from the house
of Mr*. Fdwards, kancafter, and arrive in Philadelphia
the fame evening, and will commerce again on Thursday
morning following, and continue every week—-Th- price
for each pafcinger from Philadelphia to Lancaster w three
dollars and a half, to York, four'dollars and three quar
ters, to Frederick town eight doHars, the like sums foi
150 weight baggdge, with the usual allowance of 14 lb.
gratis to eachpaffenger, and 5 pence a 'mile for all way
passengers. 3 0 ~~§4 W
John Reilly,
George Weed.
TAKE NOTICE,
TTIAT application will be madefor the renewal of
the following certificates, iflucd by JofcpK Nourfe,
Register of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Gril'
wold, Esq. of Norwich, Conned icut—
1 certificate, fix per cent domel'ic flock. No. 13,907
—dated the i7thDecember, 1795, bearing interest from
the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65-100 do!-
1 ditto, three per cent, dorneftic flock, No. 10,68 a
—dated December 16, 1795, bearing interest from the
firltdayof Janairy, 1791, for 994 30-ico dollars.
1 ditto, deferred flock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th j
December, 1795, bearing interest from the firft Janu
ary, 1801, for 798 83-100 dollars.
Said certificates are supposed to have been loft or
- -Ooiea ln thhrciiy fbinc thus tn "Dccenrner OT Jrtrittsrf
last.
JOSEPH THOMAS,
No. 59, North Front-street.
Philadelphia, July 21, 1796. d6w.
Washington Canal Lottery,
nO. r.
WHEREAS-the State of Maryland has anthorifed
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand.
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpofc of cutting
a Canal through the City of Wafliington, from th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz 1 Prize of 10,000 dollars, 10,000
I ditto X 0,000 10,000
7 last drawn")
Tickets, each f 5,000 3J,00 °
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
20 ditto 100 2,000
55 ditto 50 1,750
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for tha Canal, 26,250
5850 Prizes, 17J,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
The Commiflioners have taken the Securities r«
quired by the aforefaid ad for the punAual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets ar« fold, of which timely
notice will bgiven.
Such prize* as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finilhed, Ihall be considered as relinquilhed for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
W«. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Washington, Feb. 11, 5
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a£f of Congtefs of the United
States of America, passed at Philadelphia, the «Bth day
of Mav, 1796 ; laying duties ou Carriages, for the convey
ance of perions, and repealing the former a£ta for 1 hat plr
pofe.—-That there (hall be levied, collected and paid, upon
all carriages tor the conveyance of persons, winch lhali be
kept by or for any person, for his or her own use, or to let
001 to hire, or for the conveying of palTcngcrs, the fcveral du.
ties and rates following, to wit.
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chariot, li dols;
upon every Poti Chaise, 12 dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top, 9 dols
upon every Coachee, 9 dolji
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work above,
with blinds, glafles or curtains, 9 dols.
upon four wheel carriages, having framed polls and
tops with ft eel springs, 6 dols.
upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
springs or ja«ks, 3 dols.
upon curricles with lops, 3 dols.
upon chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with ileel or iron springs,
, 3 dols. r
For and upon all other two wheel caniages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheel carriage, having framed ports
T 1 _ , tO P*» a °d reltiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols
rvl r L r , S of '- hc Rcv " ,uf of 'He firft furvev ol th,
ce of Ptnnfylvania, will atte.ld daily, until the 30th day
of September next, for the purpose of the duties on
" 7 ;"' I Race °r Saifafrai street, in the City
ot Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Efq in the
County ot Montgomery j and at the house of Abraham Du
, C . OUIHy ° f Bucks ' of which persons pot
, IclTed of fueh Carriages, are desired to take notice.
Nofce is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign diddled spiri
tuous liquors, that licence* w,U be granted to them ; one K
cencefor carrying on the bufmefs of retailing of Wines, in a
e squantuy, or in Itfs quantities than 30 gallons-and one
oZn„ 7, C u rry '°! l hC buflne,S of rc ' aili "g Spirituous 1-
T an 'T , tha V° ? allors ' at the «nfc and
'id. Winces y offiC " S authorized to grant
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeftor of the Revenue of the firft survey
ore r» r the diltiidtot PcnuftlYaoia,
Office of Infpef>ion,at > «
Philadelphia, 21ft July, ijgg.J "* 3
City cf Wathin srton.
SCHEME of the LOTT V. RY, No. i , k
FOR THE MPRWeMMf Of TH£
federal city.
r A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & >
' dwelling-lioufe, ) cafli 30,000, art )
1 ditto 15,006 & cat's 2j,000 40,00u
1 ditta ij,«eo & r.a(h 15,000 30,000,
I ditto 10,000 & calh jo,ooo 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & cask 5,00 a 20,u00
I cash prize of to,one
„ 4 do. 5,000 each, art| - is,ooo
10 do. 1,000 - - io.sjoo
to do. 500 - . 10,000
, 00 do. TOO • . 1«,000
zoo .'to. 50 10,000
1 400 do. 1$ ' - 10,000
f 1,000 do. 2£ • 20,000
* 15,000 do. 10 « »50,oo»
y
e i<>»739 Prizes.
e 3tb*6i Blanks.
' 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will ue the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, feenring payment in either money
er prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number cot less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to lie ere&ed in the City of Walhington—-
f Two beautiful designs are already feledled for the entire
fronts on two of the public I'quares; from these prawings
J- it is proposed to erect two centre ana four corner buildings,
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner describe J in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A uett deduclion of five per cent, will be mado to defray
I the necessary expenses of printing, &c. and the furpluj
1 [ will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
e J University, to be erecled within the city of Waftiington.
Th* Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
1 j fold off.—Tbe money prizes will be payable in thirty days
" after it is finiftiad ; and any.prizes for which fortunate
numbers at e not produced within twelve months after th«
r -drawing is dosed, are to be considered as given towards
f tKe"KnTfor the U niveriiiy"; it being determined te fettle
the whole business in a year from the eiding of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes
are held by the President and two Dire&ors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are vahied at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment o£
the late Commiflioners affifled in the managemen: of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake thisardnoustafk
i a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num
1. ber of these having kindly accepted, it is. hoped that the
; friends t» a National University and the other federal ob
jects may continue to favor the design.
By accoants received from the diflerent parts of.the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for (ale, the public ace aifured that th«
drawing will speedily commenee, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
this tickets, has rendered the fnor: suspension indifpenfeble.
SAMUEL SLODGET.
„§, Tiekets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boston;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wills,
Cooper's Ferry. ee
FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD.
T1 AN away from the fubferiber Jiving near Church
~ IliH, Qu-cil aII 'n C'uunt VJ u ihc Staco of Maryland 4
about the firib of January last, a black negro man.namei)
Sam, about thirty years of age, 5 feet 8 or 9 inches high,
j has a crooked finjjer on one hand, and one leg and foot
smaller than the other, somewhat round-lhouldcred, his
t cloathing unknown. Any perfbn who will secure «r
t bring said fellow home,fo that 1 may get him again, stall
have the above reward with reifonnble charges,
e WILLIAM'JACOBS.
r Junrf 4. "lavnin.
Diftricl: of Peanfylvania: to wit:
it remembered, that oA rhe sth day of August, ia l f
the twentieth yew ci the independence ©f the Unit
ed States of America. William Cob*ett, of the said
diftri&, hath deposited in this office she title of a book, f
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words
following : to wit.
44 The life and adventures of Peter Porcupine ; with a
" full and fair account of all his authoring tranfaclions:
" being a sure and infallible gaide for all enterprising
" young men who wish to make a fortune by writing
" pamphlets, by Peter Porcupine himfelf. ♦
" Now, you lying varlets, you ihall fee how a plain
" tale will put you clown." Shakespeare,
j in conformity to thea& of the Congress of the United
r States, entitled "an aft for the encouragement of learn
ing, by securing the copies of maps, charts and books__to
the authors and proprietors, during the tlm^ B therein
! mentioned. Samuel CaLdwell.
Clerk of theDiftri& of Pennfyivania.
Aug. 8 t M4W
Noiv Publishing by the Printer,
At No. 3, Lcetitia Court, delivering to Subfcriberv
and to be had at the different Bodk-Stores in this City*
Berriman & Go's
CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
The HOLY BIBLE.
C -ntaining the Old and Naw
Testaments and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes anthre
erences. An Index ; or an account of the mod remarkable
paffagr. in the old and new Testament, pointing to the place*
wherein they happened, and to the places of I'criptuie where
in they are recorded.—A Table of i ime.—T ables of scrip
ture measures, weightsand coins : with an appendix,contain
ing the method ol calculating its measures of surface*
hitherto wanting in Treatises on this Jubjed. A Table of OJficcs
and Conditions of men.
CONDITIONS
i. The size of this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO®
printed on a beautiful new type, and good paper, made pas
ticularlyfor it, It will be publilhed in Numbers, notto ex
ceed 3'o, one of which will be delivered weekly to subscrib
ers, at a quarter of a dollar. Thof« fubferibers who
receiving the work complete, willbe attended to by fignitying
the fame on any of the iubfenption papers in rhe Bookstore*
in this citv.
2« There willbe an advance in the price* on (übfcribiag
after the Jirft of August next.
3 In thecourfeof the Work willbe given an elcgantr
Frontifpiecu—From an Engraving of the celebrated arLilt»
Gkigniok. _
Berriman 3c Co. gratefully acknowledge the very liberal
encouragement they have met with; and havereafonto belteve
that the execution of their edition will antwer every expec
tation, and speak its own prat fc.
May 26 30WCTM.*
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119 —
, C H E S N U T-STR E £ T.
[Price Eight Dollars per Annum./