• x % ?V ' V ' c . , S / i/
'• * *- ;'j .
b> Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
...30 ate*gmfPSl. ,7?i- J%gg4i
1 . IMH Clin » •— - ,J J • -
For Boston, ~ *0
< —1| i i
CAPTAIN COFFI*
T TTIIX rail on Sunday "ext. For freight or pafcaje ap-
W ply to . . X*
Edward Stow, jun. j®
For HAMBURGH, J*
. - -_ THE SHI*
john,
Robdit Jackson, Matter, j
f-To fail in fifteen days, 1 $S
. ,';J*S^iii3efe«3 HAVI j^ G . W o-th:rdj of her car jo en
(oEcd and ready, to go on hoard: For freight or passage | JgZ
apply to the matter on board at Wain's whr.rf, or to newl
Johh • TO P
Na. »4 Walnut-street.
July it. - § 6catf
For Freight,
THC B,UG * Q 1
Benjamin Glasier, Mojft', A^d
FROM Liverpool. Now discharging at P. Care's wharf,
and will immediately afterwards take in Freight for
NEWBURY-PORT and BOSTON.
To fail in all next week. For freight or passage, apply to
eapt. Glafier, on board, or to _ I
Isaac Harvey, jttn. W
No. 5 South Water Street.
Rtnr oak,
yo. ay for
Adveitilement.
On Saturday the 30th inft. will be fjld at public auc- ,
tion
__ The new (hit) At
Jpgh*. LIBERTY, v
-OURTHEN 310 tons, with her
13 masts and spars as delivered by c
tie carper, ter, food judget have pronounced that; (he j.
is a faithfully built vcflfcl, of goo. 1 , and well feiioneti
materials, one thoufaod dollars will be required of the
purchaser at the time of Tale, and fir the remainder a
credit will be given of 3, 6, 9, and 11 months, the pay
ments to he secured by notes negotiable at the Bank or
Alexandria, with approved endorsers. JJ
JOHN MANDEVILLE, J Tr „ f „ tie '■>
GEORGECLEMERSTON, & [
' creditors of Jns. |
ELISHA C. DICK. J Hiciaan Ct.
XT, d t 30th. — _j
For Barbados,
The Brigantine
■ fcghg- F A fvl E, i
Francis Knox, Matter, inn
TJAS good accommodations for pas-
fingers, ants is cxpcil;d to fail on
Thtrfiay nm For'fMfcht -of * few buttk or passage, on
For Sale, Freight, or Charter, J
The Scho incr
ML ANGELICA,
hundred and twenty tons burthen— y
\ / fix months old, a (launch,, faithfilly- j"
tnliU, faft-failingr vclTel, handsomely linifticd off, and weft
found inevety particular. For term*apply to l c
B. RHODES,
On board said febooner, lying, at Bickley and Bohlen's
wharf, the firfl above Market street.
WHERE THERE ARE FOR SALE,
A few half-bbls. Prime Me/s Beef.
July 24 §
For Sale or Charter,
THESNOW
BOSTON,
XtJRTHEN about aooo Bbl*. as flonr—fhe mary he fe*nt
to sea at a fniall expence, her fails and being in ""
vcty good order—apply to
fames Campbell, or
George Latimer. at
■Apiil 19, § te
" ■ — cc
For Sale,
Or for Charter to the We ft-Indies, «
C E TH R'k S,
. Philadelphia Built,
OF Live Oa*t'?nd Red Cedar, burthen about 350 c) bar
rels, now ciifcharging at Latimer's wharf. J*his ves
sel is in excellent repair, well fouud and wilLbeara tho
rough examinatkm, and as soon as discharged will be ie&- r j
dy to take in a-cargo. For terms apply to
John Vaughan.
Jtaly 2? ' §
: ■ i
CABLES, i
From 16 to 9 i inches, for file by
Jeremiah Warder ~ !
July it § No 11 northThird-ftreet. ;
' —- r
Landing 1
-From on board the Nancy, William Belcher, mas- ,
ter, from Boiirdeawx, a cargo, conlifting of—
360 Hfuls. CHOICE CLARET,
2J2 Cases of 24 bottles each CLARET,
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS,
For Sale by
F. Coppingei.
July 23. dt f.
Just arrived,
220 boxes be ft Claret.
' j.itatr.ing lw« "dozen each, for Tale, 'Vholefale £r Retail, by
William Sheaff ,
•d 6 Julys?. No, 168 ili^li-tirtet.
fe" Schooner LITTLE JOHN. f
F 0 R -S A I. F; . , r ; : .
The ScriQo*'R LITTLE J O " {s,
C APT AIN BOYD, of Ma
-gM-t \ SOtJT 18 trioniha old, a very fact ,ncc °
A fiil'mg vessel, on Virginia Pilot bo;;t'
now laying at South ftreat whar:,
- aCa^,!y t o PBTER BLIGHT. y'."'"
July 19. joteod •
For Sale,
| Tl> e Schooner
I Dispatch,
TJURTHEN hundred barrels,
• c ' a— -D a (launch, gobd vessel, two years old, is
newiy ihcathed, and in com pleat orJ.».'r to proceed on a
* voyage.—For terms apply to '
Joseph Anthony <£? Co
July 27. \ 4 r -
Just Arrived,
la the (bin MoJIy, John Frolf, Master, from Liverpool, |
,5000 Bu(hels Beftfine ftovedSALT, F<wa
6co Bulhels HOmE COAL,
And nßCrat*of QUEENS WARE afforirt!.,
rf, FOR SALE BY Th
Philip Nicklin & Co.
to _m -, - N. C^rri
Ship MOLLY, c'oul!
TS for S ALE or CM (he » 5 boi»,
1 years old, Philadelphia built, of white fcl f cc
osk, w*well faltrd and c»rrie» aboat ba.rfU of Fi^ur.
- For terms apply, at above, , ,
July 23 dll T<
- — tUOU!
This Day commenced Landing,
At IV ifflin's wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop |; CCU
St. Jago, from St. J ago de Cuba—conDlling of qa:r
White and Brown Bo* SUGAR. at ih
er MOLASSES, of an excellent quality. i«ch
'y COFFEE.
he HIDES and HONEY. Also,
For Sale or Charter. 0
The brig LUCY, Pht|
y " A ftoot ' wi " carr V a ' r
of bout 1200 barrel-., and may go to
„fca with a very fcnall e*p<nfo.
tic The „bove will be fold for cafb or approved nctti. V '
Samuel Emery,
Ct. No. 64, south Second-street. "! rt
. riff 1
_ July 27, >79 6 - , witi
Take Notice,
--pHAT the S'.bfcriber intends to mate ipplica- uo[
J. tiort for the renewal of a Certificate, No. 1609, j
for 4000 dollars, dated the 14th December, 179 s,branny - _
. ineereft at 5 i per cent, from tft Jartuary, 1796, «
•"* name of David Dunderdale Jc Co of Le«l , ;:i *crk
on {hire, merchants. The fame isfuppdfed to h.-.ve beenloji
? e ' on its way to New York, under cover- to Bi. cdcer t-
March, of thai ptacc, on the 6th of January last- J
_ • Thomas M4i.uen.
PhilacMphia, aid June, 1796- S w
n — ,Q n
Wm. HOLDERNBSSE,
No. 76 Will Street,
1 — TT AS received, by the latcft arrivals from Europe and
"y- LL the East Indies, a well feledcd assortment of Silk —
* cH Mercury, Linen Drapery and Habcrdafhery Goods; which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lc we ft terms ;
AMOMOST which are,
:n * Some fine India muffins embroidered with gold and frivdr
Superfine Book, Jacriuct, aad Mulmul ditto O
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra Mack taffetie.,hi tarings and colored PcrGans til
§ Bandana Handkerchiefs
Long and short Nankeens
Englifc Mintuas of the firft quality —
Damaik table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant affortnunt
Tliead and cotton de
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth J
French cambrics, vefy fifle Ri
sent Irifii l.'.nrtis, do. &c. 3cc. June 14 » Wi
s in Public Notice is given, _
the merchants and others concerned in the shipping
at State lfund, under quarantine, that a Cart will
attend every mo. ning, fumiays excepted, from nine to _
§ ten o'clock, at the Health office, No. 34 Walnut-areet ,to
convey provisions or other Refrefhments to the Hospital,
and for the use of the crews. _
It iscipeded that the Bags, Baflcets, or other packay- u
e; with supplies, will be with thr« name of the vef- M
fel and captain they are intended for, to prevent miftawes
at delivery.
By order of the Board of Health for the port of Phila- la
delphla, LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH, Chairman.
bar. J"
'.t THE SALE OF
tea- The TOWN, and OUT LOTS of the TOWNS
of ERIE, WATERFORD, FRANKLIN
and WARREN. '
§ A DVERTISED for falcby the State Agents, m the Phila
■ l\ delphia Gazei'cand Universal Daily Advertiser, to be
Sold in the City of Philadelphia-; will cammed « the City
Tavern or Coffee-Houfe in Second-Street, in the said city, on
I Monday the 25th day of July inft. at 7 o'clock in the even
-1 ing.and becominued fey adjournment from day today, from,
il2 o'clock at noon, un 4 ] two o'clock, and from 7 uAtil g
ct. o'clock in the evening, until the whole of the said LOTS and
OUT LOTS are difpofcd of. The conditions of sale will be 1
made known, and the plans of the said LOTS and OUT
LO 1S be Ibewn at the time and place of sale.
Rv order of William Irvine, Andrew FJlic ft and George Wiljtn 2
mas- AgtKt.. EDWARD FOX, Aucliontcr.
_ i July 22. -
ales of India Goods.
% ■■ ,
The Cargo ©f the fttij* Ganges, capt. Tingsy, from Cal- g
« cutta and Bengal, (
CONSISTING OF t
A Large, arrd general aifortmcrrt of Bengal an<f Madras |
CO FTON and SILK GOODS. i
', AMONG AVHICH ARE
dtf. A -variety fine worked and plain Muslins,
- Doreas, Alio,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
ill bnzes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER.
P« For Sale by
( Willings Eif Francis,
'/, Ho. ai Penn Street.
irtet. June 8
vDUT.Y ON CARRIAGES. ,
Notice is herebv Given .
agreeably to an a£k of Congrrfs ot tb? Lnftcr.
inerua. i?aHVd at 48th day .
of Mav, 796 ; layin> duties on Carriages, tor tno^convey-*
a nee or t>c ; ons, nnd rt the for pur
.—-That iViere fha'l be
ries an 4 Tates following, to wit. .
Fotand j'-:on every Coach, i t .; dols. JiX .'
ti»v>o every Chario', 12 dois. Pr MejTrs
u>j«v every Post Chariot, 1 / - Jg now d
upon every Pott Chaise, 12 dtfls. PoH
us J.) every Phaeton, withor vv uhout top, gdols*
i»on every Coachee, 9 dols. * • ,
yuon other Carriages, having panne i woik
Vith blinds, glasses or curtains, 9 dols. j -
, 1 pon four wheel carriages, having framed posts and j
; / tapj with steel fpiings, 6 UtjK, J
L r ipop. four whetfl top Carriages, with wooden or iron j
) dots " , ' the lu
witn tops, 3 dols. t 1
with tops, 3 dolsi j fOfl
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols.
t ifou tulkies with *ops, 3 tUls. j
jpon other two wheel top 3 doU.T ,
jpon two wheel carriages, with ftccl or iron springs, j
3 s «
) For and upon all qrtitr two whefcl can iages, 2 dols. J
upon every lour wheel carriage, having Iramrd polls 1
and tops, and relliilg upon wooden spars, 2 dols. J A
The Collc&ors of the Revenue of the "tirjt survey ot the J
Dirtri&of Pcnnfylvanu* attend daily, until the 30 th day j
of September next, Cor the purpose of rcGeuing the duties on | J u
Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or Saffairai Urtet, in the City J -
of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel & Clzit » £.1q in rbe j
County of Montgomery; and at the houle of Abraham Da- 1
bois, Esq. m the County of RucKs; of whicli all pcrfons pol J
e feffed of such Carriage s are deftred to take notice. J cxtei
Notite is also given, J rivel
TO all retail dealers in Wines, an 4so distilled fpiri- 1 fram
tuous liquors, that licences wilt be granted to them ; one li j a lai
cence for carrying on the business ot retailing ot Wines, in a J high
'.6fsquantity, or in lets Quantities than 30 gallons—and one j br£a
P iiceuce for carrvinß on the bufuicfs of retailing Spirituous li- I e( j v
quars in lefsquan.iiics tlian 20 gallons, at the fame time and I turc]
at the fame pljces, by tiic officers legally auihoiired to grant j q cat
iich licences. | Can;
WILLIAM NICHOLS, J cftn>
Inipeftor of tlie Revenue of the firtk fuivcy j p
of the dillrid of Pcnni ; lvania. J *
Office of Infpe6;ion, at ? |
Philadelp"i<», 21 ft JuK', 1796. ) Sr t 3° j
Twenty Dollars Reward.
WAS gjTOLEM, tail eveniiip, from the pafturt of the I
fablerlher, A black Rotkihgham GELDING, 15 I j
,-v hmdi hat a star, and i'ome white under, his j £, 011
throat, (the ;>»rt being formerly ch»ftd) ;has a leather on I
hi. neck,.thc ijiaite <>41 the near fide, his foot-locka fretted J
- ivitha (.lojf.aad isa horse e£ much boneand size. Who- J[ n
ever fteures I,lm wi'.h'tlie tKief, fiiall have the afcove rv- t
Wiird, or for the Hotfe »lone a very generous compepfa- I ,
a " t ion JOHN LAWRENCE. tof ,
% JUIT? ■_ -_c 4 - _v to * w «
Just Arrived, . J^'c
j; In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, mafteTfrom La- I I
vsrpool, | tha
jooo Ilridiel. SALT ; J alfc
3co WARE j arwl 1 j -
AmAllorttMut of SHI? CHANDLERY; | the
FORSALE f hm
Oir board, at Pine-ilrtet wharf. Apply tft • I th^
James Campbell, or
George Latimer. j pi;
nd April 19. 5 1 '
ilk — ■ - cdl
£3- N O T I C E.
' • There will be fold on Tliuriday the 4th of Apgnft, it ait
j£[ ib e Merchants'eo&t house, ui Second itneet/ j
One thousand fharesof the stock of _
ins the North America Land Company.
If not previously disposed of.
Philadelphia, a oil. July. <1" IJ.
TAKE NOTICE, P
TKATb"pfication vrill he made for the renewal of xl
tlie ifTued by Joseph Ndurfe, fio
Register of the Trelfury, in the name of Roger Gnl Tf
> woM, Esq. of Norwich, Conneflicut— R'
1 certificate, fix per cent ctoineftic stock, No. 13,907 by
—dated the 17th December, 1795, bearing interest from
the- firft djy of Janojry, 1791. for 1,597 6/-ioo dol
-1 ditto, thre* per cent, domestic stock, 10,68s
10 —dated December 16, 179J, bearing interest from the
firft day of January. 179'' for 994 30-100 dollars.
' ' I ditto, $tfetr€<\ stock, No. 9,166 dited the 17th |
ao . December, 1795> bearing intertft from the firll Jatiu-
vcf. ar/, 1801, for 79" 83-100 dollars. , . afl
ikes certificates are supposed to have been 101 l or
stolen in this city Tome time in December or Janua:y
lila- last. , M
JOSEPH THOMASi
§ No. 59, North Frorit-ftreet.
— Philadelphia, J«ty ai, 179*- J6w - '
N3 Lottery ' ?
IN T?OR raising fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven tt
r dollars and fifty cents, by a deduSion of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
hlla - j Prize of jooo dollars is dollars 5000
0 , be . 1000 1000
G "y , «oo s°o
'• c JOO I<SCO
* en - i ' ICO ICOO
rom, v*
nil q 99 5° 4950
.and lbs « S°°°
II be »000 , zofioo
JUT 5 Last drawn numbers «f 1000 dollars each, 5000
dfwi 1334 Prizes. 44,4J0
r ' 4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars earh, 44>4J°
By order of the D:rcdor» of the Society for eftablilh
mg Ufeful ManuiaSures, the fiiperintendant* of the Pat- '
Cal " erfon Lottery hive requested the Managers to offer the I
foregoing Ssheme to the public, and have dire&ed them
to refund the money to those pcrfons who have 1
adras j n f oPmcr Lottery, or exchange the tickets tor tickets 1
in this Lottery.
I'he lottery has aflually commenced drawing, and will
'ins, • continue until finifiied. A lift of the Blanks atid Prizes
.may be seen at tin' office ol WiHiam Blackburn, Nt#. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procr. 1* "i.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- CUMMING,
JACOB R. HARDENHERG, V Managers,
■et. JQtfATit AN RHEA, J
June 18 eo
; — ; ; » - - r ,
To ek Lr.t,
A large convenient thrc* (>oTy liricV House, plcifinr't
Stnated, onthi t of Sccohd'-Stfcct, b'-ppofiTtc to tlV*
48fc*y.--Market; -occupation of Henry Clyin.#-
App<yto
tf jMam Bingham.
. 6t.
.a. ■ ;
.1- , &'*, ■ -vtfftf flftft
L X ur«;et, between '.runt ami Second streets, in whicM
MeiTrs, jamc* Cllbraith Si Co. many yean (and
now do) carried on business.
PoiTeffidn wiH be jjiven'in one month, or sooner.
»jr terms apply to WILLIAM B&l.l, or*
HECTOR. C.ALBRAITH.
.April tl. §
Just Arrived
In the brig petfey, from Jertmic, and for sale by
the fuhfcriVteu.
Forty thousand \vt. of very prime Coffee
in hdgfheads and bags
Alld, in thfc fuhoonec Hope, from New Orleans.
BEEF
COTTON
HIDES ani
j Logwood.
s. I A liberal credjf will be |;ivtn for Approved Notes,«
I'l Richard and James Potter.
>0 I July 17- dtf
2 A Country Seat to be fold.
f* I s even acres and a half of land near the three
I I\ mile ft one on the foad leading to Gray's gardeHs and
j extending witlingentle declivity from the falfi foad to the
I river Schuylkill—on which ,arc erctSed, a convenient
i- I &inu house fuitahle for a tenant, a frame bam and stay?,
li I a large Brick House forty-eight feet front, two stories
a I high, a very elegant piazza fronting the Hvcr, the whole
nt j breadth of the house supported with turned piHafs, fioor-
I ed with cedar plank, 1 commanding an cit en five aod pic*
n<J ' I turefque view of the Middle Bridge, Gray's Gardens, the
"" j Seat of Wm. Hamilton, Esq. the Turnpike Road ar.d
I Canal. The improvements are all new—and the ground
I conveniently divided and inclosed by new cedar fences.
c,v 1 For terms apply at No. iji Market-street.
July 37 *3t
| . -
— i War-Office of the United States,
I May 4tb, 1796.
1 I' I 'HE following Rules, explanatory of thole pumifhed
' I J. the 1 jth February, 1789, are to beobferred By all
j persons entitled to Lands, in purfiisnce of refolvcs of
| Cdngrefe.
01 ' I Every certificate ef the acknowfedgnfljllt of 4 deed or
e J power of attorney, eitlier before a notary public or other
10 J magistrate, mull, in additicrn to what is uiiial, set furtk
1 J that the pttfott making the acknowledgment is known t®
1 a " J the notary or other magillrate ; for which purpofc words
F of the following import iSuft be inferttd in the certificate.
I " And Ido moreover.certify that the said A B making
j this acknowledgment has been for perfotiaily
I known to me."
La- I If the notary cr ether itragiftrafe has rcarfoa te believe
j that lie is th. pefi'on he r«prefents himfeif t« be, he wit
| also certify it.
J Amlifthe prcaf tw made by a witftersorwitneffesjh'ot
I they mud fweir to sortie genera} ftatecf their knowledge of
| him, which matter mtrft be fetforih'in the certificate ; and
• ] the notary pirMie, or other magidrate, before whom tjj|
I ackß&wledgiitin* is ntarfe, must also set forth that ttre Wft*
I neisor wimefTeshas or have been for upwards of
j piflbhiHy known to hints.
5 I If a jultice of the peScs is employed, the cjerfc wT the
_ J coiirt of the corporation ct county must certify that fuck
I person is a jifftife of the peace of the county or coTpora-
I tion as the cafe nxf be, and that lqtl faith is dne to hi»
, at ads as fuck. JAMES MCHENRY,
Secretary of Wif.
of] May ii. _ ia-.vT.tn
17. Asjheton and Jamei Humphreys,
CONVEYANCERS,
ts IT T AVE removed their office to Ne. 61, Wahrut-ftreet,
—t I JLI next tfoor but two to tlie corner of Dock-flreet,
wfiere all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn at
I a moderate charge, with care, accuracy and dispatch.—
■1 ps I They likewise buy and fell Real Estates ugon commif- '
1 r 1-, fions, and procure Money upon Loan on good fecufity.—
3ril The bufmeftof an ATTORNEY AT LAW ani NOTA
RY PUBLIC is also tranfafled at the fa id office as ufuai
,907 by ASSHiTON HUMPHREYS,
rum I N. B. Good Notes difcotmted.
dol- July 5. eo6w
; 6 University of Pennsylvania,
; I , Julyl79 s '
nth Summer Vacation will take place on Monday next,
■ 1 the 18 hinfl. and continue for Four weeks. —Tbedtffcr-
a,lU" ent Schools wiih the ftveral Tutoh wi'y accordingly re
, a(femblc on MondiV, thre l|(h day of August.
' or Bvihe Faculty. Wm Rogers, See'?.
Waihmgton Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
j XT THERE AS the State of Maryland has authorised
I VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand.
J two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
' a Canal through the City of Waldington, from the P®;
seven tomacto theEaftern Brancfc Haruour.
t per I The following is tHe SCHEME of No. I.
viz. I Viz -I Prize of aopoo dollars, ao,ooo
joooj I ditto 10,00® 10,000
r£Sl 3SW
lOCC j 6 ditto 6,C>oa
aooo I ro ditto 400 4,000
49501 ao ditto 100 afioo
50001 55 ditto 50 a,75°
0,000 i7J<S dkto 1* 69,008
JOOO I To be raised for tho Canal, 16,15®
4,4J0l Priz«s,
11650 Blanks, not tw®to a prite.j
4 4JQ I 17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
lb'lilh- I C 5" Commissioners have taken the Securities re.
i Pat- 1 quired by the rforefaid aA for the punctual payment of
:r the I the prizes.
them The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
chafed delay, as soon as the Tickets ate iold, of which timely
tickets I notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after tn®
id will ] drawing is fini(bed, (hall be confideredasTelinquiftied for
Pri7.es 1 the benefit bf the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
Jo 64 I ( Signed J NOTIFY YOUNG,
etick- i DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
| LEWIS DEBLOiS,
OEOKOE WALKEiI,
Wm.M. duncanson,
lagers. 1 THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
eo I Cky «f Wa&inijto*, tcb. 11. 5SfC"* V ~- — ■-•— «vvm<rr&9-z--z
To be Told,
A PLANTATION, in of Wo- !bt?ry, coun
ty of Gloucester, anrl state of New-Jerf-y\ contain
inrr about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
tion of which rs wood'&nd and improved mea 'ow A
great part of the arable land is in a high state of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the produdlion of Red Clover
On said plantation there is a gentce] two-story brick house,
with four rooms on a floor, and a goad dry cellar under
the whole; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
henfe• The garden is large, and contains a good collec
tion of the bed kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees ;
the orchard consists of about three hundred grafted app e
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premiies, may
be informed ©f the terms by applying to
Andrew Hunter.
July 49 t
PRICES CURRENT.
Philadelphia, July 29.
PER QUANTITY DOLLA R , AT 100 CENTS.
Sails. Cts. Dolls- Cts.
Anchors, pr.ih. 10 Nails, &/, 10j. hj,
Allum, Eng!ijh,pr cwt J and lod, per lb. 13
Ditto, Rach pi* lb. II Nutmegs, per It. II
A/be,, pot, per tan, 170 I Oil, Unfed, per gall. I4J
Pearl, I JO Olive,
Arrack, pergallon, 1 ditto, per cafe, 9
Paeon, Shoulder,pr. lb. 10 Sweet, be/1, in
Flitches, 13 fixfis, per box, 10
"Brandy, common, I 60 'ditto bafiets, 11
~Coniac, I 67 a 2 bottles, 7
BraziUtto, per ton, 80 Spermaceti pr gall 106
Bricks, prM. 7 Train,per bbl. 18
Bread, fbip, per cut. 6 Whale, per gal. 45
Ditto, pilot II Porter per ca/k, 73°
V-tto, Jmall water London,per do*. 150
■per legt 90 1 ■ 'American da. bott.
Beer, American, in bat- I in:!. 4
ties, per dozen, bot- Pitch, per4tbl. 3 JO
ties included, I 60 Pork, Burlington, per
Ditto, per barrel, 6 barrel. 19 /o 20
Boards,Ce/far,per Mfeet 30 wLtncer county, 19
—— Ml art. 30 ■Carolina, r l 6
New England, 1680 Pea,, Albany, pr bufb.' 93
Oak, 26 Pepper, per lb. 38
-—Merchantablepine,lß Pimento, 14
Sap, do. 18 Raifinsf be/)per teg II
- Mahogany,pfifwt Ditto per jar, 6
The above are the Jballop Ditto per bot 8
price,*\for the yard Rice, per cwt. 5
price price, add I del* Rosin per barrel J JO
JT lar, J 3 cent,, pr M. Rum, Jamaica, pr gal. 167
Brimfiane in rolls, per Antigua I J 4
„„t. 46l ' IVindwari 140
Beef, 80/ ton, per bll.ll* 16 Barbados I 33
Country, ditto 14 ■ Country, N. E. I
. Prejh, cwt. J toS Saltpetre, per cwt. JO
Butter per lb. 18 i 40 Saffafra,, per ton
in kegs 14 Shot, ditto, <0
Candles Sperm, per lb. J 3 Steel, German, ptr lb. 14
——- Wax —Enghjb, blijl.pr cwt. 14 24
Myrtle Wax 40 —American, per ton 133 33
Mould tallow 18 fa 19 —Cwowley s, pr faggot
. Dipped IJ Snake root, per lb. - 3 J
Che tie, EnaKJb, Per Ih. i 8 Soap, brown per B>. 14
Country SI i 13 ~ !Vi " >4
Chocolate IS- —Co/tile 44
Cinnamon 66 Starch X 6
Clove, I J°
Cocoa, ter cwt. X 8 Spermaceti refined pr lb.
' Coffee, per lb. 4J to 1% Sail cloth, Englijh. No.
Coal, per buficl, 30 i4O 1, per yard, 33
Copperas, per cwt. J 80/ ion, No. T , do. JO
Cordage, American, per No. 4, do.
cwt. 16 « 18' Sugar, lump, per lb. 4J
Cotton, per lb. 3J t» 40 . -Loaffingle res. 17
Currants 10 Bitto double ditto
Dud, Rujia, per piece, 18 Havannah, white 40
Ravens II JO ——Ditto brown ' 16
Hutch Sail Duct 44 -r-Mufcovadop.cwt.\\a\e, 67
Feather,, per lb t 66 £afi India, pr.
'Flax, ditto II «"'• ' '4 66
Flaxfeed, }er bufiel 60 Sp. Turpentine pr gall. 66
Flour, Sup. per barrel 10 JO Salt, allum, pr bufcell 66
—Comm/m, lo —Liverpool j6
——Bur middling,, bell, 8 —Cadiz •°
Meal, Indian 4 JO —Li/ton 63
ditto Rye, J Ship building IV, 0.
Ship fluff per cwt. 333 frames per ton 11 67
Fujlic per tnr, 4J Ditto Live Oak, t6
Gin, Holland per cafe, 7JO Do. Red Cedar prfoot
Do. per gall. I 93 Shingle, 18 inche,,fr
Clue, per cwt. A,
Ginger, Ditto 4feet 7
' Ditto, common 16 Ditto 3 feet dressed 16
Ditto, ground 44 Staves, pipe pr 1000, 60
Qinfeng, P ,r ih - 3® wbite-oakhogshead 4J 33
Gunpowder, cannon,per Red oak data 48
fr.safi, 4J Leogcm 46 3}
Ditto, fine glared, 1$ Barrel 4»
Grain, Wheatprbufb I-JOjt Heading 44
Rye, I Skial Otter, beflpr piece 333
Oats, 60 —Mink, 46
Indian Cor*, ' 93 —A*. g r *t *° uS 4
Barley, I»0 —Ditto red 120
bejtjbelled pr.lb. —Martin, JO
Buckwheat per —Fibers J7
bufiel, 75 —Sear, J
Hsmt, pr.lb. 13 —Racoon, 60
Hemt, imported, per —Musk-rats, 37
300 —Beaver, per lb. 164
American, per lb. IO — De;r, in hair »J «33
Herrings, per bbl. 6 Tar, N. J erf. H gall.
Hide,, raw pr. lb. Xto 9 per bbl.
Haps, 9 —Carolina, 3lgell. *
Ho it jhead hoops per M. 30 Turpentine, per bbl. 3iO
Indigo, French per lb. 167 Tobacco, J. River befi^
—Carolina, I 100lb. 7 a %
Irons, fadp r ton 133 33 ! Peterfiurg 6a6 JO
Iron, callings par cwt. 4 Potrwmac 3a J
— Pcnnfih.barfcarce 113 33 Georgia 6a 7
Ri</!ia per ton 97 Carolina 4i J
Pig 34 Tea Hyftm, per lb. Ito 2
Sheet, i' 24 33 —Hyson fiin, Sj
Nail rods, 110 to 126 67 —Souchong, Xa I 13
Jub* per cwt. J JO
Lard, boss per lb. 14 ~—Bohca, 35
Lead in per not. J33 Tallow, refined, per li. 14
in bars, 7 Tin. per box _ 16 JO
yilVr, »3 33 ran*la, per lb. 10*14
reiy 9 VerHgremft, do. I
Leather, foal per n. 22 VevpiUu n, 1 JO
ZlgnUir. vite per ton, 24 Kirnifh, per gallon,
L vwood, 4° !V -"' 3 "'< t" lh - . 33
Mace, per lb. II Whale-bone, long t pr ib. 14
Mackartl, befi per bil 11 Wine, Madeira pr p. 226
—second quality -8 ——Lijbon, 126
Madder. left per lb. 20 Tmerffe,prg*l. 70
Marble wrought prfoot 60 ; Fayal, 67
Mast furs ditto **C Port per pipe 133 33
Mole%. , per galL 66 Do. in butt.pr daz
Mvftard, per lb. 46 Claret,percufi 4C& JO
-«t'r, in bottles. Sherry, ter gallon X JO
per dozen, 1 %C. Malaga, 84
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Or. London, at 30 days,per jf.ico iler!.
at 60 days, 16J I-»
at 90 days, 161 i l6a 1-1
Amftardaiu, OP days, per guilder, 4*
5s days, 40
i»r- ; 1 " ' .
s roc a s.
Six per Cent. ------- - 37/7
Three per Cent. - - 10/7
pcrClnt. - -- -- - - - 1
4! per Cent. - - nor.e for file. - -
Deferred Six per Gent. - - - - 1.1/®* o 7
BANK United States, - - - 24 pr. ceat.
P«rinfytrar»ia, - - j°
— North \meriea, - - - 46
Infuraace Comp. North-America, 40for cent. adv.
—— -Fennfylvar.ia, 9 <0 toper cent.
Exchange, at 60 days, - - - t6j t«r66 2-3
WASHINGTON LOTTERY.
A h'tjl of Prizes anil Blanks in the IVa/bingtor:
Lottery No. 1. <
SIXTH DAY'S DRAWING—JuIy 23.
No. Dais'. No. Dols. No. Dols. No. Dols.
J9 10 UJ47 27738 40266
301 10 791 '30030 J37 i°
711 10 14214 J46 648
918 10 837 31204 911 10
l»?4 14306 10 64J 10 931
306 10 466 10 32478 4MJ7
266J IJ7H 610 99 1
687 16483 33268 4»347
946 40 7jj 10 880 790
4334 993 346J4 I" 963
404 17798 717 10
Bj3 974 10 3JJ34 10 70?
J034 18153 764 7?8
6383 599 36339 10 ' 786
934 10 98J - 371J3 44822
8396 40 19012 10 .140 813
7J6 I» J4l 38020 4J74J
9214 921 xo 426 ,4j 91?
33J ia 40J71 778 47*34 io
9?4 41497 39 2 39 593
10094 42460 3JI 10 803
804 J34 10 424 io 48071
BiJ 2410J 478 137
936 23981 10 jiß 493 1 J
11476 270J9 40209 10 816
SEVENTH DAY'S DRAWING —July aj
No. Deli. No. Dols. No. Dols. No. Dols.
4*4 2 j 15484 27.539 37023 10
674 16259 10 6i5 811
4496 n 1704J 647 Jso73 10
537 i 10 061 833 10 634
jji 18293 10 864 39420
664 19173 870 10 j7O 10
3413 317 28258' 702 10
744 10 992 10 669 40070
jaoS '10 40125 73J 396
JU 9SB 49694 jj6
6830 21347 10 908 10 41173
7364 10 24698 10 3'•016 4*j69
SBJ 10 7J3 3 J 334 686 40
8474 • 871 Ho 34363 43843 10
9143 43178 739 44640 10
640 I® 865 ' 898 773 10
10441 949 10 JJO64 10 45277 10
733 441J2 10 144 684 10.
140J4 4JOOS 440 46710
JIJ 10,000 390 I« 440 10 47631 10
J29 461 697 48019
13082 10 JJJ 36219 67s
468 77r 10 423 10 921
14076 46767 10 514 49466
1J391 to 27014 98J 543
■ ; , • | . 1
By an Artist resident at Mr. Oeiicra s Hocel,
MINIATURE LIKENESSES
ARE taken and executed in that elegant and delicate
stile, whifh is so necessary to render a Miniature Pic
ture an interesting jewel.
He will warrant a strong and indisputable resem
blance; and he takes the liberty to lay before the public
of this place his mod earnest intention to deserve their pa
tronage by his b';(t endeavors to plea(e.
N. 8.-Specimens are to be seen. ' >
May 14. 5
TO SE DISPOSED OF,
> ' I 'HE time of a strong, healthy NEGRO MAN, who
' X has from Bto 9 years to serve. He is acquainted
; with farming and houfe-wcrk.
Enquire at this Office.
J ul r *9 3
A collection of Papers,
ON the fubjeft ef bilious Fevers, prevalent in tha Uni
ted States for a few years past
Compiled by NOAH" WEBSTER,
Is this day come to hand, price One Dollar. Sold by
f W. YOUNG, MILLS & SON,
Booksellers and Stationers, No. J2 Second-llreet, the eor
l 11 er of Chefnut-ftrtet.
July 49 3t
\ LONDON.
J • LITERARY.
, Noble authors. It is with pleasure that we heir
j that men of elegant minas employ the leifnre which
they derive from fortune in the homage of theMu
-5 fcs. There are three Dramas ready for the Siage
' by noble writers.
j A Comedy,with Song 6, by the-Duke of Leeds.
A Tragedy, fiy the Earl of Car'ifle.
A Comedy, by Lord Vifeount M.iuntmorres.
Mr. Jerningham is about to present his poetical
' worts to the public, as his final adieu to the Muses.
The public will accept of the present for the fake of
3 tha motive,
The Duke of Leeds' Comedy is said to be a ve
ry faithful pidlureef fafhionable life. It introdu
ces all the Dramatis Perfonae in perfect harmony
I with one another, and leads ttcm through the po
j lifhed jealousies of uppsr life to its usual cataflto
» phe—-feparahon.
i The state into which the French have thrown
' the'allied armies i« Italy fully juflifies Mr. Wind
bam'a assertion, that they are " enemies to all or j
der."
> _ _ May 3.
Singular circnmjlanci.—The audience at Drory.
' laneTljealre on Saturday evening, was focomplete
ly tired that they ordered the curtain to drop in the
middle of the farce of" All the World's a Stage,"
> and completely hooted the offtheboards 1
' Prince William of Gloucester the degree
1 of L. L. D. at Cambridge on the gth instant.
May 4.
1 Feathers are much falWn off in fafhion, since the
f fmnitbead has presented the true proportion of na
ture.
Silver and gold bandeaus are fu.Ttrie rage.
B're and pink spotted Jmuflins are much worn
by our fafhiona'-le belles ; and the open straw hat
pr-mifes to be the spring favorite, without any trim
ming whatever.
~,, 11 i mi ii ———- ±iMwne>T--~rr>-mtaamam
' the Soilowing VerTcs on a jtoungii-ir's coining of age
are from Dr. John/ion.
LONG expected on®-and-twcnty
Ling'rmp year, at length is flow# ;
* rid; and pleifure, pomp and plenty,
Great are pew your own.
Loofen'd from the minor's tether#
Free to mortgage or to ft 11,
Wild as wind, and light as feather,
Rid the fpns of tjirift farewell. ■ ,
Call the Betlies, Kates and Jennies,
All the names that banilh care;
Lavish of your grandfire's guineas,
Shew the spirit of an heir.
All that prey on vice or folly •*
Joy to fee theii»quarry fly :
There theTjaTiefter light'and jolly,
There the lender grave and 3 jr. /
Wealth, my lad, was made to wander,
Let it wander arit will;
Call the Jockey, call the Pander,
Bid them <?orrie and take their fill.
When the bonnv blade carouses,
PoSets fall and spirits high—
What arc acres ? what are houses ?
Only dirt or wet or dry.
Should the guardiap, friend or mother
Tell the woes of wilful wafle:
Scorn their counsel, scorn their pother—
You can liang or drown at lait.
PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
For the Gazette of the UnitebStates
n<>. nr.
THE Constitution of the United State 3 is fotin
ded on principles oF equality—Every citizen is
born with a right to participate in sit its advanta
ges. In this refpedt we all ftait from the fame
point in the journey of life—but alas! how soon
do the advantages of education, which fume enjoy
over others, enable them to dillauce their contem
poraries !
It is this which creates those difparitics, that en
genderthe bitterneflei of social efciftence—Envy on
'he one hand, and ambition on the other. It is ac
knowledged that nature sports an endleis, variety
in forming the human mind. Genius however, is
more equally d'fpenfed than may at firtl view be
imagined.
in the prifent difeuflion, this consideration has
little weight. The objeet is to taften this idea un
the mind, viz. That the people being born
rights, ju.tice requires that the government should
as far as possible place them in a capacity to enjoy
those rights. We complain of monopolies—of the
power of riches—of the burthens of Society. The
causes of these complaints wiH continue and accu
mulate, so long as the present monopoly of learn
ing continues.
A monopoly of all others the most injurious, be
cause it will in time acquire an inveteracy ; which
it will be unpopular to attempt- to remove. This
monopoly is disregarded by those who fuflfer from
its effects ; and generally in the fame proportion.
Its operation tho' fatal, is gradual, and therefore
the less obvious. Those who Inoiv nothing, feel
few irjmies; it is the\:apacity for enjayment which
originates in an extension of the humait faculties
that enables mankind to dillinguifh negative misery,
and positive good. I know that this observation
has been obtruded on the world in defence of keep
ing the majority in ignorance. Ueiefted be the
policy. It is the meafnre of tyrants to (laves or
rather it is the connedtirg link that binds the lat
ter to the former.
The Conftituiion of the United States, has le
velled all the pretensions of fupeiiority, which are
not founded on fupetior merit. It holds out the
moll powerful motives to excel in all those estimable
endowments, which give worth to the human cha
rter, by placing within probable attainment, by
the cluldien of thepoorcft citizen in the Republic,
the highest honors of the union—between them, and
these objects, what is there that intervenes, but our
own negligcnce i
The Legislature of this Commonwealth labored
twofeflions on the fubjeatfeducation, and brought
nothing to pass. Some fay that worse than bare
creation is before an holt of prejudices
impede iheir way. In addition to these difficul
ties, it has been afTerted in a public paper, that the
men of property opposed the business. Ido not
believe this foul aspersion on their understandings,
has a balis to support it. If it has, it will fh'ew '
that as the completion of this business is peculiarly
the interest of the general mass of the citizens, so on
them alone depends the bringing forward men who
will honeltly adopt and pursue those' measures,
which will eventually result in the accomplrftiment
of this important objed—ln my next, I propose to
point.out some of the methods neeeflary to be re
sorted to, on the part of those who realize how im.
portanc a general diffufion of kaowledge among the
people is, to the piefervation of the Republican
chara&er.
■■■■■Ui.ii E "
l rom the Fakmer's IVeesit Museum.
" V'i/t t^su well to be angry for the gourd?
OR to fret, at any of t * petty accidents of
life ? 1 hou discontented mortal, undoubted defend
ant from Jonah, and his peevish tribe, why dost
thou fuller a cloud to gather on thy brow, because
there re a hjtle one, no bigger than a man's hand,
riling in the sky ? Be serene thyfelf, and it will
import little, whether it raint or'blows.
Of all vile habits, that of fretfulnefs is the lead
tolerable. Many offenfive things, which vulgar
people do, are sometimes laid aside, and their neigh
hours are occafiorially freed from annoy. But fret
fulnefs is a kind of perpetual motion, excited no
lef. by a creaking rioor, than a fit of the gout. It
is a voracious monlter and f« ds upon -|inme as
wH as vast vexation. Let us drive, therefore, to
pluck off this blitter from the heart, and, even in
the hottest, and most opprefTive days of life, care
not wUeth-uhe duller of a « goard" be expended
over us, or token away. I | iave „l wa -«i
ever bnce the fchoolmuiref. bid me rrad, with a
loud voice, Jonah's journey to Nineveh, tl at tir
prophet fkeuld ch jfe, like a i WZ ed brute of t5-v
" Secatife a goard, a flfoft lived cbnf of tf, e
t 'light, had wi hered I: amjeais to me, even if
jh» fiin beat fiercely upon hishheatd t and the er.tl
wind blew (harpljr upon his breali, that the prophet
might have found so much alleviation of his mis.
tort 11 c?et», in beholding " sixteen ihoufand" peopie,
aid » also much cattle" spared from deft rust ion,'
that a deid «« goard" would not give him the fpleeo.
I cannot help feeling a degree of indifference, and,
perhaps, averfioi. towards this ftetting
to the Ninevites. 1 have a profound "nlptd r,.r
all, at;d a warm afFe&ion for molt of the othe pro
phets. Many were courtly, as well us ingenious
I admire the sublimity of liaiah, tbefe-i
---fibility of Jeremiah» and the iretieroug zeal of E
zekiel. Eveu the lowly Amut, t1 I" ' of ~
'l-rfcoah, on-, i of Ills edußast'Ai"
has indueed a degree of rudenci* tx> his wririnig •
ilill I believe t« be as honest a prophet, . s ever u -
tered a pteditlii.n. But as for Jonah, fctting alidc
his disobedience, feltifhnefs and vanity, he was so
sulky a;id lo morose a mortal that I never could like
his character or his principles. I am not f« un
charitable, as to with that he haj actually beep Ji
gefted by the whale, which swallowed him, but he
ought to have kept no better company ; for not •
the " irreat Leviathsn of the deep ever floundered
more impatiently in his element, than dilcomented
Jonah, in the voyage of life.
On a review of what 1 have, thus far Written,
I believe (bat there is qo occafiou to look so far
ba> k as th* history of an eminent prophet for an
iiflance of anger employed upon trifles. If J
fliould lift the window sash of my ftiidy, 1 Ifoouid
dilcern, whole companies fretting and fuming foe
the "gnard."
Walking in a ltudious mood, by the fide of a
s neighbour's garden fence, I observed him flam ping
upon the ground with filch disorder, that 1 con
e eluded he was in convullions, or pradtifing a dance
i of $t. Vitds. Humaniig urged me towards him,
ir and I meditated medical rather than moral aid.
- But to my eager qticftion of " what aileth thee
he replied to my astonishment, that the bugs had
- blighted all his cucumbers, and was not that enough
a to raake a wife man mad ? 1 endeavored to compose
his perturbated spirits, and quoted to him Seneca
I Upon tranquillity of mind, and part of one of Ba«
s lil's homilies, but all in vain. He appeared to be
e possessed ; and it requited an abler exorcist than my.
felf to drive his devil away. I retired ; and, think
s ing of Jonah aid his " goard" could not help al
a legotizing a little in Bimyan's manner. My neigh. .
;l bour Irritable's forefathers, quoth I, probably cul-
J tivated cucumbers without the walls of Nineveh ;
y they fretted when tfee fruit was cut off, and my
e worthy friend here* I find, has not yet. been cured
e of the Jumtly taint 1
THE LAY PREACHER.
NEW-YORK.
j Out country presents us, in all quarters, with most
abundaßt crops, The hay is iu vast quantities, and
of the bed quality. The rains of May and June
p caused a full growtji, and the fucceediiig- dry i-fi
j then enabled the farmer to gather and it in.the
bell manner. Ihe oats and flax are equally abund
s anl,
1 Never were greater crops of wheat and rye. In
a few particular iituations the wheat is blalfed, but
_ as a general rcmaik, the wheat is excellent, and in
f greater quantities than ever has been before known.
r Unulusl quantities of old wheat also remain en
hand. The spirit of speculation and monopoly had
hoarded immense quantities for a high market. E
ven the farmers, in some places, had flored their ■
wheat and flour, in oar market-towns, waiting for
an increase of price. The sudden fall of price has
disappointed their hopes, and made them repent
their foil*.
_ The fatal consequences of the fall of provisions
In Eutope, upon a great number of American mer.
j chants are sincerely to be regretted. Yet these con
r f quences were expected, and Tiavc been repeatedly
foretold ; and nothing would repress the daring
j spirit of speculation. The great art of profiling by
speculation, is to be the firft to observe changes in
. 'he ffiaikets abroad, and engage e</r/y in supplying
} tl.em. The moment a good market bet'omes '«*//
. known, and competition it is time
, for a prudent merchant todefill.
Thete seems, however, more than human pro
vidence and arrangement, indisposing of the profits
r *of business.. Men, who, by gr«at successes, haie
r accumulated immense sums of money, or vsfl ef
t tates in land, and who appear to be lapidly pro
( greffing to the poffefiion of dangerous power and
wealth, seem doomed by heaven to perfilt ,in their
. designs, till they lose mod or all their acquisitions.
( It is a lamentable, but common truth, that men
fiiddenly rsi fed to wealth and power, lose a great
, portion of their mod efteernable qualities. Mutual
. wants are the nurses of foeial virtue—place a man
, beyond those wants, and he instantly lofts those fine
feelings of sympathy and benevolence, whith God
Almighty dellined to coaflitute the principal fcur
ces of public and private virtues. No country on
earth can furriifh more examples of these truths, tbaa
America within a few yeats.
f Yet how few of all those who once appeared to be
hafteoing to fortunes like principalities,have arrived
to the point of their wi(be» 1 The moll dangeioos
chara&eis have been arrelled in their career, and
reduced to want or mediocrity. Whether this i*
j called destiny or the special interference ot a lu
pveme intelligence, the consequences are auspici
ous to our country. This fatalityy attending e
normotu speculations, while, in a few inflances, it
has prpved a severe afßiftion to the fufft rers, is a
moi.g the happiell arrangements of Providence, and
, will contribute to preserve the morals of our country
and the equality «f circtimllances,which is belt suit
. ed to our republican government. •
, Nothing is more remarkable, than that a fuMen
! acquisition of grjat wealth rendeis the poffefforof
i f either a disagreeable or a tifelefs member of foci- »
| ety. It is equally true that aJlow accimiula'iou of i
property preserves the induftrv. the morals and the
virtues of the individual, and thus renders him ufe
u. ty society, in proportion to his acqi-ifitiorcs.
Minerva*» ■■'■ P river ye
I Philadelphia,
FRIDAY EVENING, July 19.
( Communication.) All 1
THE people of the northern dates are advised r °ns of
to be upon their guard against the means, which we ' d '®
are bow praftifing to induce them to porchafe lands !u *e C
in Pennsylvania alleged to be owned under Connec Rhine,
ticvt titles. If they Ihould pay their money, or 'hem ti
once give their bonds or notes of hand, they will .
be involved in trouble *r.d certainly loose their pro ,? "; 0 ' c
perty. The court of commffioners, appointed under ce've '
the late confederation, A. D 1782, were aut'noriz- with th
ed finally to decide the controverly between Penn '' c
f,.i ond Knowing the macni- French
' —tude of the business, and iW iln.ii -dacue was-tr>- -chy »»
bc final, ibe-Commiflioners fat seven weeks, in cordin<
order to give a full, fair, patient and deliberate hear- an > H<
ing. Their decree would have been valid and bind- from a
ing, if it had been by any three of the five com- in'he
miffioners, but so clear was the cafe, that they were diers,
all five unanimous The court began its feifion the ot Br
I 2th of November, 1782, and 011 mind.
Monday, 30th December, 1782, verses
The cou't met as before. The agents for the two probal
parties again attended. The court pronounced the paratu
following sentence and judgment, viz. campa
" This cause has been well argiied by the learn- opene
ed counsel 011 both fides. The court are now to ken a =
pronounce their sentence or judgment." protecl
"We are unanimously of opinion, that the state Lei
of Connaftieut has no tight to the lands in con- Jourd
troverfy." . .
«We are also unanimously of opinion, that the INinr;
jurifdiaion and pre-emption of all the territory ly- 'he w]
ing within the charter boundary of Pennsylvania, tachei
and now claimed by Conne&icut, do of right belong to rei
to Pennsylvania."
William Whipple,
Welcome Arnold, coipo
William C. Huuflon, «de 4
Cyrus Griffin, soon
David Brearly. make
"Trenton, December 30th, 1782. OH - ,
•' The court adjourned without day. termi
M Attest. other
~ William 'Vhipple, President,
(Signed) JohnNelfon, Clerk."
It is -well worthy of remark, that in their re- _
fpe&ive applications to Congress, Pennsylvania and *he
Conneaicut both pr;)ed that the decree of jndg reign
ment might be final and concluflve. Ihe comniif- , ou !'
fion, ifTued in purluance of the confederation by him r
Congress, authorized and directed a final or con- Koch
clufive decision. The articles of confederation de
clare, that the decilions of such courts of commif- C
fioners (hall be final and conclujivl. Will any piu- r
Jent or worthy farmer give away the fruits of his : f rm
labour and the bread of his family, for lands pre- tion
tended to be held UHder such a title, when he can only
buy as good lands, with good titles, for Can
jess money? Doth the feller under the Contur&icut *'
t itle to the unfufpeUing farmer or fir anger, diffei
him " <who leadeth the blind out of his way ?" w "^
— «B*mosiiH ■■■ . fra I
BY THIS DAY'S MAILS. , f f'
th*t
e """" na;
NEW-YORK, July 27. fron
[Continuation of foreign advices received by the mar
(hip'Btifeis, Capt Breath, from Bourdeaiix.] ber
Transited for the Daily Sldvertifer. baft
—— ■* 1
Extra&sfrom the Courier du Carps du Legiflatif, a "
28th May. . !ro[
— neu
Military situation of the Republic, dlfTolutipn of
the Armistice upon the Rhine.
The pen can icariely follow the impetuous march hi:
of the general who in less than fifteen days hath 'be
conquered the whole North of Italy, hath vanquith- 1
td one of the most famous generals, and hath struck a P
one of thpfc masterly fl'okcs which hath iu denly y' l
changed the political face of Europe. Already the 111
neighbouiing powers have purchased by lubmiffion ln
and by military contributions, the preftrvatioii. of
their estates : the others press forward, not 13
to acknowledge the Republic, but to sue for its |
friendfhip. The court of Naples and of Rome be j 112
gin to feel their most important intcrefts. 1 ufcany t v
itfelf upon its. neutrality : Venice
drives from its territories, the emigrants, together
with their chief, and fefufe3 an asylum to Beau
lieu and his vnquifhed army. Th.e explosion of Fi
this thunderbolt, hath resounded on the banks of pr
the Rhine ;it hath inflamed our armies with emula- th
tion, and hath tilled those of our enemies with con- b«
ftcrnation. The court of Vienna for not know. g<
ing how to renounce ihepofleflion of some ungrate- m
ful and rebellious provinces in the North, now be- pi
holds the most rich and the most beautiful part of m
all its estates efraptng from it in the South. Shag
ten by the fame blow England in vain attempts to ol
avenge itf«lf of our fuccefles by new perfidies, lhus a]
Fiance which they would have effaced from the tl
map of Europe, has become now the most diftin- z
guithed part of it. That republic which they h
thought to have divided and (hared, now limits the ti
estates of its neighbours. Its immense resources, a
doubled by the fpirit'of liberty which refinance has r
•ited by the has.it of conquests to which they d
vc forced it, by the force, of a constitutional go t
rnmert which they have ftiengthgd by attempt- £
to overturn, now affureto it an influence as ex- g
■ .five as fUendid. While we are yet wondering t
i. the inconceivable rapidity with which ttie Sardi '
ian and Austrian armies hare been overthrown by r
the fii ft fiiock of our watriors,—armies whose union r
formed a "mass so formidable for its numbers, but t
which appeare 1 weak to those who contemplated 1
the superiority of freemen over (laves ! While we i
are yet adm'ring the (kill with which they were fe- 1
perated from each other, by the manoeuvres of our j
generals, and fuccefiively destroyed—while these j i
lplendid scenes are yet before our eyes, (hould tli'ey ; ]
not inspire us with hop: s that our numerous and
. warlike armies on the Rhine will soon faitsfy that 1
impatient desire of victory which a noble emulation
itV t?ited ill the breads of thois heroen who com
t"if! and thai by a her«ifm equal to ihat of
:rsin Italy, they willihortlj subjugate a
river yet famous for the batflti by whieji the and wi'et. l
ent GauL rendered its batiks illustrious. ir.cnt.'
If t
BRUSSELS, 4.Prairial, 23d May. royalil
All the Austrian troops which are in the envi- cal bul
rons of Siegebourg d'Erenbeitftein, and of Nsn- the nat
weid, after having received orders from the Arch- They
■hike Charles, marched suddenly for the Upper withoti
Rhine, in order to cross that river, and to march they w
rhem to Hundfruck. They hstve only left upon out it t
| >he Lower Rhine about 12 or'i 4,000 men, divided
iftlo several small corps. Perfuns think they per
r ceive in new arrangements, a« underftandmg
with the king of Pru'Hia, who according to authen- Extra<
tie letters from Wezel, has engaged to prevent the Du
French from penetrating into Germany by the dut- Dii
v -chy of wfaich-they niigh' xafiljf eflVft. Ac*
1 cording to the fame letters the Prussian, Hanoveii- " 1
. an, Hessian, and Brunfwick troops, are in motion that si
. from all pans, to repair to their rendezvous. They rent,
. in the whole, amount to about eighty thousand ful- of tlx
p diers, of which one-fourth are cavalry. The duke 1 nearly
e of Brunfwick has definitively accepted the com
mand. Upon the whole, notwithftandihg the re
vcrfes of the Auftrians in Italy, it does not appear
D probable that a peace will soon take place—the pte
e parations for war are redoubled on all fides, and the
campaign on the Rhine is conlidered as ready to be A(.
i_ opened. It appears that the armistice will be bro
-0 ken as soon as the A uftrian army is united for the Th
prote&ion of the interior of Germany. ons bi
e Letters from Coblentz mention, that General i "rely
7. Jourdan having-received advics that the Auttrians fes in
had tuarched confidcrable forces in the environs of advift
ie Nahe, upon the Hundfruck, and generally upon nited
y, the whole of the Upper Rhine, had on his fide de- for h<
a> tached several large bodies of infantry and cavalry
t g to reinforce the army under the command of the
general of division Mat'b'au. peace
The final fupprefiion us all the Abbeys, religious weep
coiporat ions, and generally of all the clergy, is d<r- a "d 1
cided for the nine re-united departments, and is g ln *
soon to be executed. They hav* already begun to to pe
make praparations for putting this law in esecuti- profii
on. It appears that the French government is de- gricu
termir.ed to place us on the lame footing with the ft r an:
other departments. " ,vlt<
the a
VIENNA, May 3. *"Y
e . changes have taken place in the ministry. gel Q
The Baron de Thugur, formerly mini.fter of so- blrffi
reign affairs, i? nominated minister of the Cabinet tilth
|f. Council —The Count de Lehrback has fucceedrd
t,y him in the office of foreign affairs. The Count de
tn „ Rochenhan, chancellor of the eourt, is nominated L
] e minister of conferences, and the Count Collorido, Bda
us. G. Chamberlain. * f^ie
lU _ The unexpected event 6of the Milanese have de- men
hjg fermined the court to fend with the utmoit expedi- vate
re . tion to the army of Beaulieu, all the garrisons, not Am
■an only of Tyrol, but also the troops of Stirre, of and
f or Carinthia, of Carniole, &c. &e. It is even fear
cu , ed that they will ,not arrive in time to check the .arji
Pf el impetuosity of the French, the consequences o! *'bi s
?" which are dreaded. '"'tbi
The Court of Vienna, alarmed by these fuccef
fes have, ii is iViid, sent orders to Genertil Wurm
fer to detach 4000 men from his army to reinforce Gu
' that of Benuhen, which'has retired under Monto rri• ■ ■
na ; at the fame tirfle to march fix battalions, drawn inft
-from Hungary, to the fame place. I o hafteu the not
l ' ie march of these troop 1 :, they have ordered a num- at
J ber of waggons to follww, to carry their arms and
baggage, _
If we are to believe a Teport which gains credit
jlif dai'v, the courts of Turin and Florence, derailied fh
from the ooalition, will not be allowed to hold a (
neutrality inconvenient to, the French Republic,
ii of victorious over its enemies. The peace with the
king of Sardinia leaves 110 doubt with refpeft to
arch : hose opposed to the French—but they add that
hath 'he French government has demanded from the to
ui(h- T-ufcan government, that they (hall no longer give vo
ruck a partial asylum in its ports to the Englilh squadron
ienly which hath been hitherto plainly proted\ed, even cri
t i le iu maritime violences, against the French cruisers j,
)yi nII in the port of Leghorn. Ed
n 0 f It follows, from the a£lual situation of the lta
lian States, that they will find themselves obliged
jr its t° renounce the apparent neutrality which they et
ebe ! have affected. if they would wish to avoid haiing c(
[cany | ( he French for their enemies and conquerors. ] a
eaice ' tz
PARIS, 17th Prainal (26th May.) r j
3eau- Never perhaps was the general opinion of the
5n of French people less equivoeally (hewn than at the o
ks of present momentous crisis—hatred for the Jacobins, c
mula- the fear of falling under their domination, joy at t
1 con- being from it by the wiflom and vigilance of d
mow. government, appeared evidently on the hrft infor- t
grate- mation of the conspiracy. The general wi(h of the p
w be- people thus uniformly dirc&ed the measures of ad- t
art of ministration. The department of Marne diftin- f
Sha- gutfr.ed itfelf above the reft by a proclamation lull f
pts to of wisdom, and which merits announced in j
Thus all the Journals. The excellent administrators of 1
i) the that depaitmene made an appeal te all good citi- r
diftin- zens—they have made a permanent -fitting, and
i they have given the most explicit ordeis to have a wateh- t
ts the ful eye upon all ftratTgers, vagabonds, and upon t
lurces, all anarchists, who as. here, tor a few days i
ce has raised their audacious heads, and who since their t
1 they discovery are again plunged in their caverns. At ]
al go the end of the address is a proclamation of the 1
tempt- fame magistrates, informing the people of the dan i
as ex- ger which they have run, and of the precautions \
dering taken by the magistrates to prevent them in tuiure. <
Sardi " Citizens (it is said in this proclamation) "it is <
iwn by not in blood and carnage that a Republic is found- 1
: union rd ; it is raised by courage, and it is not preserved I
s, but but by virtue—Miftrnft those hypocrites who lond- 1
lplated ling your trifling ills and your refeutments, accuf
tiile we ing the government of the evils of a Deccaiviral I
rere fe- reign, invite you 10 change j those who would lead
of our you from revolution to revolution are aflafiins ; they 1
e these ; are your implacable enemies, who wearied of no
Id tfi'ey j longer being permit ted to oppress yop, would wish
lis and to overturn the magillrites chosen by yo«, putiing
fy that themselves in their placcs, that they might fell tb
1 illation you the execution of the laws. Your enemies are
10 com- those who, gorging with wine and thirsting for
that of blood, sigh vehemently after that infernal conftito
ugate a tion which vro«l4 again invigorate those abandoned
wi-tt.-- a dio haw been overthrown by the goverri make
ir.cnt." Y 1
IF the ctnfpiracy of Babotruf is a conspiracy <>: !*•'■
roy.ililm, ;s there has been discovered some po:i •">;!' ■
cal buffoons irt it, government may rell allured, that to pre
the nation withes neither for royalifm or anarchism. ' 11
They wish ardently for a government, because
without it tkere can be neither peace nor fafety.
they wish a government just and wife, because with- On
out it there is neither liberty nor happiness. close t
. widow
PAU3, 9th Prairial, 2S:h May. turdai
ARMY OF THE SEA-COAST. atte „.J
Extra# of ■* letter from the General of Di»ifion, f evera
Dumefny to the Members of the Executive led, n
DireftorT. with t
Head Quarters of Alencon, acth Floreal, every
"I in form you with pleasure, Citizen Direftoi 8, „ e f 9)
that from the.firft Pluvoife, to the twenty fifth cor- trefTei
j rent, the Chcuans have loft in the eastern division readir
|of the army us the sea-coast, 2,800 men, and that f orrc
] nearly an equal number have been wounded. Devo
Health aud Fraternity, (eflin<
DUMESNY." her n
illnefi
BOSTON, Jufy 21. latior
» — to be
AGREEABLE INTELLIGENCE. g i ve .
Aiicant, May 10, 1
The cloud which lately obfeured the negociati
ons between the United States and Algiers, is in
-1 I tirely dissipated : A letter from one of the firft hou- Man
5 fes in Aiicant, fays, " Our subsequent letter will
f advise you, of the final settlement between the U
i nited States and the Regency of Algiers —all veffel| h ave
. for here are now fafe." his b
{ RETROSPECT. . bere
e More tranquil than Europe, America lives in t | lref
peace. Full well persuaded of the difference bet- havii
3 weep the beginning and end of a war, (he fees ; t j on
iT and fears the event, when her pafliions bid her be- t his
3 gin. Restrained by her prudence, and obstinate rfl ) u
3 to persist in it, (he is-enriched by her caution, and t ; rc ,
profits frorathe folly of more ancient nations. A- 4 j a y j
. griculture invites her thousands, and a(ks every
e stranger (he can foiicit to her regions. Commerce f ollr
invites her fails to the riches of every clime, and mes
the arts are waiting her necefiities, to be busy at e- one
very wheel for her support. May the guardian an- ] ea (t
•, gel of Columbia continue to us these inefiima !e
blessings which have reared her to her present ze
■t Tilth of prolpetity and refpedlability !
d ' I
e NEWBURYPORT, July 23. 'the
d Last Wcdnefdny, Capt. Seward arrived here, the
8 days ifrom Bermuda, bringing information that f e ] v
the inhabitants of that place vgre expe&ing attach- 1; i
e- menu from the court of Great-Britain, on their pri )ah><
i- vate estates, to refund the ptoperty belonging to
at American citixers, which had been illegally taken e ff e
of and unlawfully condemned by their courts of Vict
r Admiralty. The/ hud flopped the sales of fevera/
tie cargoes, one 1 f which was that of the Caroline, of t ell
of v'.his port. Tliofe articles that were fold were pro- ex(
bv a-vn-y-heavy dutyr
c f CONFIRM ATION.
m Tiiuridsy capt. Gtinnifon arrived, 19 days from
ce Guadaloupe. July 9, lat. 27, boarded by a Bet- t h
0 median privateer, papers examined, difmifled, am' c h
ivn infoi med that American property in future would t |,
lie hot be Hopped as they were not allowed to libcs it f u
m- at Bermuda. Nt
nd -mmmtmrn***- tn
FRANCE. of
dit 1 ■
ted The Minifitr of the Marine and tie Colonies, to ah at
1 a the Mariners of the Military pofls, belonging to the p
lie, Frencn Republic.
the (1
to 1 learn with the utmost astonishment, that the o
hat tonorable obligation, the sacred daty of every sailor I
'he t o peiifli if nec&ffaty, in orderto prcferve the con
live vo y f or t he protc'iion of which fie is employed,
ron (as in (hip-vrecks a uaptain is bound to prefetve his £
:ve " crew as well as himfelf), I learn, I fay, that this
f ers duty so essential to your fundtions, is not periorm
ed by some among you.
I ,?| - 1 learn likewise, that ths military commanders 3
IgeJ have dared to boast of haying escaped from the
:hey eßem)r ; by abandoning botfi their pofl and their
<in g convoy, which they fliould have defended to the
last, under preten e of its being of more impor- 1
tance to the Republic to preserve its military ma
rinc. , .
'the Thus prejudices always tend to lupply the
the of principles ; thus the veil of prudence often con
bins, ceals a want of energy.—Well, what would you
5 y at think of one of our brave armies, should it aban
ceof don the magazines of the Republic, and fly before
nfor- the enemy, only to preserve to its country a few re
>f the giments ! Do not you perceive then, that far from
f ad- benefiting the Republic, by leaving merchant (hips
[iflin- for the fake of benefiting those of the state, you
n full firik'e the <r,oft fatal blow to its profpenty. It is
ed in just the fame as if a man should fuffer his heart to
rs of be pierced in order to save his arm. Citizens, the
citi- marine is the arm, commerce is the heart.
, and But it isneceflary that I should recal to you the
•ateh- end ef your institution ? How have you, who are
upon the children of commerce, been able to forget, that
days it is commerce alone which conUitutcs the foul of
their the marine : you who have been created only to
At protect,the marine trade, its veflels and etlablifh
f the mints, as the gendermene had been instituted and
; dan fpryad over the country, only to defend and con
jtiens voy the : nterioi trade ?—Bcfidts, need it be repeat
iture. Ed loytu, that without trade there would be no
it is occaflon for a marine. These are truths so appa
ound- rent, anc principles so Ample, that the ignorance of
"erved them is scarcely to be endured—how blameable
fond- thercfoie, are those by whom they are unknown,
jeeuf Marirers, it is my duty, and afluredly I will per
nviral form it, to oppose myfelf, with all the force of m
i lead flruftion and authority, in order that the prejudi
; they ces of the ancient marine may not exist in the new.
of no No ! tlie absurd and pernicious f)ftem of confider
d wish ing commerce as subordinate to the marine, shall
utiing never, be adopted ur..ler a Republican regiment.
ell to 1 entreat you, Citizens, to reflect with the great
ies are eft attention upon the principles I.have laid down
ig for for vou, that the rewards of Government will not
nftitn- be bellowed but on account of the f*rvice» which
doned you (hall render to its trade, and believe me 1 will
make it my sole happiness to obtain them for yo'.t.
Your duties being tht-s pointed out, I trust j'otl
will render noy for I'.er ccmmtnt upon them Htine.
peiTary ; and 1 conjure you, in the name of the law f
to pref rve your convoys above every thing.
Philadelphia, Jttiy 2g.
On the 2id Inft. died in city, jnll at the
close of f«:r 68th year, Mrs. REBECCA DOZ,
widow of the late Mr. Andrew Doz ; and on Sa
turday evening; her remaios weie mo(t refpeftfully
attended-to Chrilt Church bitvyiiig ground. Her
feversl departments in life (lie Had uniformly fulfil
led, not oidy with a conscience void of offence, but
with that felicity of manner, which gave pleasure to
every one concerned. Firmnei» of mi«dy gentle
ness, .difcretioi*, tendered perception of hum,ln dif
trefTes, whertver (he l>iw or heard of them ; and a
rradinefs to relieve according to her ability, were
forrc of the traits ii.i her charafUr.
Devoutly resigned to the will of the Almighty, pof
fefling peace and exemplary patience, which forfoi k
her not a moment, during a long extremely painful
illness, (he exhibited manifell proof« of the conso
lations of religion, such, as a perfun happy enough
to be the fubjed of them, niigiu be cxpedled to
give.
Mr. Ffnno,
'TWERE gieatly to be wished that Admiral
Mann would permit Monsieur Rithery to go about
his bufmefs. It would really be a .great relief to
havtf the Admiral removed from that pert whc.ice
'I have ifTued so many fleets of lies in confrquence of
his being there. The printets irt particular would
be relieved from the necefliiy of publishing every
n three weeks a frelh ffoty of Admiral Richery's
'• having arrived in the Weft Indies. Thepubliaa
's j tion too of " Authentic Intelligence" enc of .
this event, and the anticipation of the consequent
:e reduction of all the British conqucfls, and the en-
tire contradiflion of the authentic intelligence next
L " day, would also be at an end.
7 Although it is not doubted but some ather
:c source would be difcovercd fmm whence to derive
'd means of humbugging minkind ; yet a very fertile
e " one would certainly be removed, and we Ihould at
least have a littie joi variety to amuse as.
!c Q.
c- . .
y
" Knaves of all Countries, /ire the fame."
, It appears by the last accounts from Paris, that
the nefarious fia'4/n which lately conspired agaii.ft
C e > the Co.iftitution of that R public, afTumed to them
ia' selves the i ppellation of exclusive PATkiOTS.
h" It is remarkable, that the fadtion which has been
labori g for *-verdl years pad, to subvert the con
to ftituuon of the United States, have leng since, i»
effed, affumtd the fame title,
icc . .
ra j The following extract contains a sample of unin
of telligible jarful, which we believe has seldom be:n
r0 " exceeded.
From the ARGUS.
Citizen Greenleaf,
om WHOEVER corifiders with the least coolness
se>- the temper which prevails on the powerful public
ln< ' charatfen of the Union, will perhaps agree with
•uW the difgtiifed sentiments and coudud of those who
1 »' fuppdit l"hcir culpable indifference, that we could
not be much worse circumstanced had the Revolu
tion never taken place, than as men and members
»f society we now are.
I know, .hat you will not agree with me, and I
'0 alt am awaie that the geneiality of honeft-thinking.raen
9 the pi -fer the independence which they now enj iy, to
that obfeqnious and limited state of life wliioh we
should undergo, were We now the fumble Colonists
the of the mild and benevolent government of Great*
ailor Britain. (
>yed, ARRIVED AT THIS PORT.
e his Brig Twins, Keder, St. Croix 17
this ArieI > Gardner, D 0 It
orm- SehrMary, Foulke, AuxCayes i 5
Polly, Davis, Miraguanc 35
Ranger, Lone, Boston 1Q
n " Sloop Sally, Wing, St. Croix 17
1 the Betsey, Pope, Cayenne 35
their Favont*, Sage, Edenton 1*
) the Ct,SARE».
npor- Brig ClaiifTa, Brewtori, St. Bartholomews
ma- Harmony, Pennifter, Barbados
Little Maria, Duncan, 1 Gibraltar
place Susannah, Parrock, New Yorlt
icon- t Schooner Paragon, Dominick, Porto Rico
I you Mahaly, Merrinchew, Cape Nichola Mole
aban- Hancock, Bvrne, Hifpaniola
iefore Mary, Pinkham, St. Thomas
:w re- Betsey,- Barnet,' Norfolk
• from Sally, .Hitcheock, New-York
t fllips Lively, Ballance, Edentott
, you Sloop Nancy, Barker, Nantucket
It is P f g"By, Willis, , NOl folk
irt to 'Capt. Houftyn, of the Brig Amelia, in teh days
s, the from Jeremie, left there the Brigs Abigail, Lake,
and Fame, Churnfide, both of Philadelphia, to
ju the f a il J n 7 days.
arc Arrived at Fort MiffPtn.
t, that Brig Molly, Medlin, Port-au-Prihce
jul of Schooner r, Wheeler, Gonaives
ily to By the latest aci»ints from the Well-Indies it
ablifh- appears that admiral Harvey is arrived at the Mole
:d and —, an( j t ha bis force there consists of 15 (hips of
J con- war> aim.) ft all of the line. He brought out with
epeat- j,; m transports with 2000 troops. The British
3e no have r e taken Fort Bompard, afterbeingia pofTeflloti
»ppa- of the French 4.hours. Flour at Port-au Prince
nee of was st 16 to 16 1-2 dollars per barrel. ?
neable
Inper- FOR SALE >
of 111- WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
reiudi- in pires and hogsheads
J Claret, genmneold, in cases
: new. in uipes, from Holland
nfider- Earthen Ware, in crates
t shall Basket Salt, in hogsheads
, t . Shot, Nos. 6, 7r I and 9
great- Bar Lead, Red and white dry !<*d
" Steel, German and Ruflia, in barrels
down Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolirt canvas,
ill not Tin plates —An invoice Stationarv. br
which THOMAS & JOHN SETLANP-
I will July 19 |Just Fublifhed,
BY THOMAS DOSSON,
At the Etor.e f?oufe, No. 4T,fouth Second Srcet,
neatly printed in one volume qjzrto, price fix
dollars the site paper, or five dolfcra the com-
moo; y i
The Four Gospels, f
TRANSLATED from the GREEK, with PRE - - 1
LIMINARY DISSERTATIONS, and notes 1
CRITICAL and EXPLANATORY,
8j GEORGE CAMPBELL, D. D. F. R. S.
&c.
Principal of Marifchal College, Aberdeen.
*#* The character of the Author for aeutenefe )
and eiudition has been cftablilhed by his e(Tay on
miracles in answer ta David Hu i,e," the grcatell
maftcrpiece of the kind ever publfflied, and by his
" Philofcphy of Rhetoric," aod. to the merit of
the prdfent work, the result of nearly forty years
study and application, and the substance of his
cotirfc of lectures in hit official capacity, the
wviewers have given ample tetiimony, but their ac |
count, however honorable to the woik, it too long i
for a place in this advertisement, the work howev
er it now presented in an American edition at not
more than half the price of the London copy.
July 20. 4W2 w
UNITED STATES, ~
Pennsvlvania Dhtsict, j "•
IN THE NAME AND BY THE AUTHORITY
OF THE UNITED STATES,
By tr ILI IA M ,V 7CHO LS,
Msrffii! of the Pennsylvania X) ift r ict, —
A PROCLAMATION.
WHER-EAS the Congrets of the United States, at
ths firflfeflion of the fourth Co.ngrefs, to wit, on
ihe twelfth day of IMay last pad, pafitd an a&, to repeal
so much of an a ft, intituled " an a& to establish tht
Judicial Courts of the United States", as diro<3s that the
alternate feifiont of the Circuit Court for thjj Diftri& of
Pennsylvania, fls&H be holden at Yorktown ; and for other
/yurpefes, in the follov ing words, to wit.
-Poofth of the United States :
At the fijrft lefiiun, begun and htld at the city of Phila
delphia, in the State of Pennfjlvania. on Monday, the
seventh of December, one theufond seven hundred and
•nifce y-fivc, v f ;
An A A to repeal so mucb of an ail, intituled " an a£ io
eflabltfh. the judicial courts of thfe United Sites'*, as
redls that afcernate sessions of the said circuit coHrt for
the district of Pennsylvania (hall b« holden at York
town and for other pur poses. I
Se&. I. itcna&cd by the Senate and House of Re- 1
preventatives rf the United States of America, in CoB- I
grefs aflembled, Thatfotrfuch of the flfth of t&s
a&, intitu-'cd xt aa a& to eftabKfli the judicial counts of ]
the United State©'', as directs that alternate sessions of the i
circuit court for the diftrLfl of Pennsylvania shall be hold- 1
en at Yorktown, be, and the fame is hereby repealed; |
iod that all the feffionsol tfcfe said circuit court shall, fro;n
and after the pa/sing of this aft, be holcen at the city of
Philadelphia, excepting only, when at any fef!:on of tKe
{aid court, the judges thereof shall direst "the nd'xt session
to be holden at Yorktown , whlcj> they are hereby autho
rized and empowered to do, whenever H (hall appear to
them to be necessary.
Sect. 11. And be it further enaAed, That all such pro
eefs of the said Court, as may have ifTued before the pass
ing of this aft, and all recognizances returnable, and all 1
furts and othec proceedings that were continued to the t
said circuit court for the diflrift of P-ennfylvania, on the j
eleventh of October next, in Yorktown, shall now be re
turned, and held continued, to the fame court, on the
ijame at Philadelphia. And to the end that suitors,
and ajl others concorncd, may have notice of
the alteration hereby made, the Marflial of the said dif
trift is hereby required to make the. feme known, by
flamation, oo cr bsforethe fir ft day of August next.
Jonathan Dayton,
Spteaker-of the Hcufe of Peprcffcntativei.
Samuel Livermoue,
President of the Senate, pro tempore.
Approved, May the twelfth, 17,6,
George Washington,
President of *he United States.
Dcpollted among the Rolls, in the Olßce of the Depart*
•®i4at of State,
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
1 DO HEREBY MAKE KNOWN, that all such
yrocefs of the said court as has, or may be iiTued, and all
recognizances returnable at Torto-urn aforefeid, on the ele
venth day of Gftuber next, Mrlll he returned to the. Circuit t>f
the United States, at the Citjr Hall, in tbe city of Phila
dtlphia, onTuefday, the elaucrtb day of October next, at
eleven o'clock in.the forenoon, And that all ftiitsand o'her
proceedings that wt re continued to the said court at York
tfcvn, will be held and continued at the said Circuit
Couifc, at Philadelphia, on the fame Rlexwth day of Ofto- -
her next, of which all persons concerned are deiired to r
*%ke notiee, and give their attendance thereat, * (
under my hand, at my office, in the Diftrift
of Pennfylvania,'the twenty-fe*cnth day of c
in year of our Lord one thousand leven hun- t
dred and rinety-fix, and of our Independ«pce the i
a
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal. '
h}yj*7 1
~~ L ""FOR SALE, : t
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED rIV irr EN H A AX, situate in the I
townjilip of Upp.'rDerby, andcountyof Delaware,
7 i-» miles from Phjiad.lphia, and half a m:le from the 1
new Wettcrn road i containing a.30 acres of land, '
of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood- 1
hed, and tTie reft arable of the firft ijuality. There are ;
on the premiTes a good two (lory brick honfe, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well 1
of--excellent water in front; a large frame barn, fiabLs, 1
and other convenient buildings; a smoke-house and !tone|
spring-house; tw good apple otchar<H, and one of peach- 1
«. The fields are all in clover, except those, immediately 1
aftder tillag", and arr laid out as to have the. advantage 1
q| water in each of /hem, which renders it pec»!i»r.lycoij- '
venient fir grazing. i
The situation is pleafint and healthy, and from the high
cultivation of the land-, t})<; good neighbourhood, and tfie
vicinity to the city, it U very suitable for a gentleman's
country feat.
The foKgoiiitj i» part of the eftat* of Jacob
iecttfcd. and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
.Ofl. .9. f-3 Surviving Executor.
FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD. «
RAN away from the- fubferiber livihg near Church 1
Hill. Qo-cn ' nn&lCounty in the State of Maryland' '
about the frrtt r.i January iaft, a black tiegro man, named 1
Sim, about thirty years of agif; 5 suet Bor 9 indies high, 1
has a crooked Sngcr on one hand, and one leg and foot
smaller than the other, somewhat round-Htouldered, his
eloathing unknown. .Any perion who"wilt fecurr ar |
Vrinj said fellow home,fo that 1 raay get him again thai! 1
have the above reward with reifonable charges. I
WILLJAJH JACOBS.
4- *law2m.
Mr. FRANC! S,
- ; (Oflhe AVji fhea'.r:)
TAKES this opptii tunity of rcturnin; thasks to his
scholars and to the public. Mr. 7unc-s intends,
or, his return from Maryland, to open i public aca
demy for dancing, t>pon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfelf tint his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any p/omifes of conduct ng his future
fcliemes on the most liberal and ftriileltterms, of pro
priety, totally unneccflary.
N. B. Private tuition as ufiiil..
June 3 law
_
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Nohthers Liberties md dillrid of-
South wark;
Puhlifhed, and ioi j by
BENJAMIN DJVIES,
No. 63, High ftre»t,
(Price one dollar.^
THIS plan is 16 inches fqnare, *id has been en
graved by one of tbe firft"*artifts In the city, from a latt
and accurate survey. Purcbafers areentltled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " fom< account of the
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
July 19 tu & f tf
For Sale,
A LAItOE ELECANT .U'D WELL FINISKEB
Three-story Brick House,
fThe hte residence of General Waller Stewart)
WITH a LOT of GROUND thereuito belonging,
the weft fide of -Third-street, neir Union-flreet
contaimncrin front 32 feet, and in depth 100 feet, to an
alley leading into Union-ftrcet. The house is 32 feet front
and 50 feet deep ; the several room* contained in it are
t lafge, commodioias, and completely finilhcd; the firft
1 stories are each 13 fc;et high; there are 20 matUcrany
I doors in the house ; a geometrical (laircafe, with maly»tra
-1 ny rails and a g®od lky-light. The kitchen i* in the oft.
: ar, whidi is fpacipus d convenient, and with
t oven, stew-holes and pantries, a fcr»ant.>' hall and large
r wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which i« an
area in which there is a pump The yard i« vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat three-story
- brick hotffe, on the north fide of TJn contain
: ing 30 feet fronf ao.fect det-p; the lower part of which
i is at present occupied as a cpmptAgf-uo and the upper
part divide 1 into wall-finifhevi chambers. This house
j may at a ftnall e!sperfe be converted iuto a "convenient
- dwelling : The door is very handlome, and the front
r and hack have Venetian V. Adjoining t^e
- lafl hoafc, uporfsthe lot bel<?hgiag tathe firft, are creAed
bathing-rjiom*, &c. rherc are Jikewife uery good coach
• • EfcHfe-and (tables finifhed r£ual (or !iearly so) with any in
• the a l<ft cormmng on Union llrect 30 feet, and
; in deptnoii the we of said alley 2 feet. There are
f good cellars unde/ the whole of the buildings, and a wine
: room over part of theftabfe, with a hay-loft over the re
• maiijder. for further particulars enquire of
; I EDWARD 6c Co.
1 j At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walout &r. Pear
f to streets»
oih month 24th, iygW
[
; George Dobson,
BEGS leave to inform the Store-ICeepers io Town and
Countrv, thai he has lemoved from Market-Street to
N°* 25, iouth Third-street,
J where h? ij opeaiag a Large and Elegant Aifortreent of the
: ; undermentioned articles—viz.
1 j Superfine London Clathsand Kerfeyraerej,
Yorkshire second Do. Do.
: Ela (lie do. do,
, M«x'd and Blue Coatioas
f Flannells, &c.
Maocheftrr Printed Callicoes,
London Chintz ditto,
Blueaad ditto Furnitures,
India ditto, 1
Long Cloths, CofTaes, Baftas, Batti!las& Conjevrems,
4-4 9" 8 S'i & 6-4 Sup«Hirie India Book Maftios,
4-4 and 9-8 India Book UandkercliicU,
4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 & 6-4 plain do Muffins,
4-4 & 6-4 British JacOnets,
6 4 Bi itilh Checks and Stripes,
4-4 fridia do. do. do.
4-4 ditto Chillocs, Madras Handkerchiefs, Jke.
A large affoitment of figur'd and plain Mpllioets,
Quilting, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
{ Fancy VVailtcoajings,
I Ginghams of the firil Quality, Drawback,
India Nankeens,
Men's Whitoand coloured Si'k fto«kin^s.
May 9
r 1 ■- i ■
Samuel Richardet,
O ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
• Merchants, that he has, this day opened the CITY
» TAVERN and MERCHANT*«*>a|£E HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia. •
The Snbfcription Room Will be furnifhed with all the
, daily papers publifti«t inlNnlidelphia, N:\v-York, Bos
• ton, Baltimore, together with those of the priccip>l'com
: mercial citi.s of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of Frencn Liquors; together with the usual refrelhraeuts,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
thechoicuftof Wires, Spirituous Liquors, and the gioft
approved Malt Liquors from London acd o'her breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the pnra; and earliest
produdlions of tho Season.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlenen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafis, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours molt convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fire to be had
at tho bar.
, Tha Lodging Rooms will be completely ftrniflied, and
I the utmost attention paid to cleanlinefi, and every other
requilite.
, iJ" Richardet will be happy t» receive, and
. execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre
fervethat patronage with which he has been so dilfinguilh
mgly lionored.
, Philadelphia, April 19. eo
For Sale,
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
IN New Jerfcy, near the Forks of Little E-g-Harbeur.
The Grift Mill!* sixty by forty feet, two wattr wheels,
and calculated for four run of Stones, with fcr-en fans
. and boulting-cloths, &c. The Saw-Mill has tw o raw«jnd
capable «fcnttingSve t0,6 100 thousand feet of B.ards ocr
, T« r - A valoihle piece ef Cedar Swamp, withii a mile
, and a half of the Mill, and within three quarters «f a mile
1 ° f a L^ Rriin S The Lumber, &c. may be taken iy water
from tke mill tail.
. ALSO rOR SALE,
Several Valuable Trafls of Land,
r In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be rec-iv
'cf ft BOt " ° f McffrS Molri « aDd Nicholfen, or in
For further information apply to the Printer
May Ij. ■ ww
Philip Nicklin Sc Co. *
'HAVE FOR SJLE,j
Souchong -v
' Hyson Skin )
Yo.inc Jfyfon > FRESH i
Hyiim and \
Imperial
Yellow Nanl:?en»
China W'jre, aTjrtt;:Hn Boxes and Clients
Qjii.kfilwr
I'i.uj laiuic Handkerchiefs of excellent quality ill
," " Iv.mlou Market } MADEIRA WINE
London parifcuiar >ia piyes, hogtheads, k
New-York Market J quarter casks
1 Teneriffe Wine iu pipes and liojjOitadJ
Sugar Candy bythe Box ' '^-*'=0
Saii Canvas No. I a 8
Lead in Iheets
3 Casks of Cutlery sfle-ted
A few thefts of Mancheflpr Goods, aflorted thick -
feU, cords, liriptd Nankenu, &c. 1
e 3 Small packages as black ftwing-filki
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-iwot.
e ' Nail« alforted in caiks
July 18 , fmwftf
JOHN PAUL JONES.
INFORMATION is hereby givan, that tha Late J«Hn
Paul Joiies was a proprietor of fire (hares (amount
ing to ah out 5867 icres) in a traS of land purchafcd by
the Ohio C otnpany, in the territory of the United States
•f America, north-weft of the river Ohio ; and that his
heirs or legal representative, on application to the direc
tors of said company,at Marietta in the territory afore
n said, will receive a deed of the said five ffiares, or rights |
it of hnd.
e The application maybe made personally or by an agent, ,
ft but proper document* mull be produced to prove the
y claimant or claimants the legal heirs or representative of
1- the said Jones.
I- n.b. As it ie nat known ij what country the person i
X or pcrfons interfiled reside, it will"be an aSI of benevolence
e in every Printer in America and Europe, who Shall insert
n ;hijadvertifemc;nt in his paper.
In behalf of t!>; direfljors (>f theOhiio Company,
7 ' : JUIi'IIS PUTNAM. .
1- Matietta, 796 [June 4 ] jawqw
h ■ — __ 1
fe Law Book-Store,
'*■>0- 3 l»J, High Street.
|e EORGE D WIS Iwgs to inform his profeflional
j V_T friends, th*t per the Ceresjuft arrived from Lon
doii, ht has received the following fcarcs and Valuable
n books.' Stife Trials, 11 vol. in fy and ii vol. Ruff
d Head a Stjlutes at large, 16 vol. Wood*' loflitutes,
■e Coke's ries, Rcftell's do. Browne's do. Hearnes
ie pleader, Coke'a 2d, 3d, and 4th fnftitutes, 2 vol. Roll's I
Abridgment, Brooke's do. Bulftrode's Reports, Roll's
do. 1 vol. in 1, Plovers Prober's pra&ice, Clarke's
Admiralty, Rutherford's luftijures, Deinology, or the
< r Eloquence aad togicof the Bar. These with iis very
large collefl ion from Dublin now on haad, will enable
him to supply an entire library or a single book,
gentlemen may have afcafion an their immediate ap- ;
plit^'ion.
d July 14. 2wiv
0~""'" " "" — ■ ■
(Jity cf Wa,fhing}:on.
" SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent J 30,000 dollars, & )
dweUing-houfe, ) cafo 30,000, are 5 ■ so,so °
1 ditto 15,006 & calls 25,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,009
r ditto 5,000 & cadi 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
, I caih prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are, • 10,000
lo do. i,aoo - - >0,000
ao do, 500 -■ » iq,ooo
oq do. 100 - - 10,000
».30 da. 50 10,000
400 do. 25 - 10,000
I,#oo do, 10 - 30,000
15,000 do. 10 - 779,000
16,739 Priaes.
35,261 Blanks.
5.0,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 40,0000.
N. B. To favour those who may rake a quantity of
n Tiekels, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the L.-. st drawn
ticket, and tlie 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, Securing payment in either money
or prize-!, iq ten days alter, drawing, will be received for
any nc.mber not left than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will aftjrd an elegant specimen of the pri
■ vate buildings to he erected in the City of Washington—
" Two beautiful designs arc already ftlcded for the entire
fronts on two. of the public squares ; from these prawings j
it is proposed to erect two centre and four corner buildings
' soon as possible after this lottery is fqld, and to convey
' them . when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, io
a " lc mannerdefcribed in the theme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduflion of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus
• will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
Univeriity, to be crcded within the city of Walhington.
. The Drawing will commence as. soon as the tickets are
" fold off.-.-The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
s 43 nniihod; and any pr zes for which fortun**c
numbers aie not jproducetl within twelve months after the
drawing is clofeu, are to be considered as given towards
j f !® Jfor thc University ;it being determined to fettle
tlle whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
1 lecur - t,cs '?' v - e« for the payment of tbePrizes,
, "* "If'" b r ; he Prefiderit and two Diredors of thc Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount 0} the lottery.
- u T hC eßty . four £ ent ' eracn who by appointment of
the late Commiflioncrs aftiHed in tbe management of the
Hotel Lottery are requefled to undertake this arduous talk
a fecoud time on behalf of thc public ; a fufficient num.
ber of these .'.aving kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
Inends to a National University and the other federal ob
jecU may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the diflerent parts of' the
• Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
> have been sent for sale, the public are aflured that thc
drawing will speedily commtwe, and that the carc and
caution unavoidably neceifary to insure a fafe disposal of
' tht t " ±e "< ha » rendered the mor: suspension indispensable.
. . , SAMUEL BLODGET.
x T a £ § * J'a £V? ay Jl had at the Bank of Columbia ;of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Fetcr Gilman, Boston •
of Johii Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper s Ferry.
FO R SA L E %
A aboat fourh.n-
" e, | ht - Squire at the OHiee of the Gazet;c
o£ the Umt«4kuw|| No. 5
To be Solo,
At No. I is, North Vetm >-St ert<% <:a bt jhfral of
the Apothecaries in lb:, Ciiy.
'TRANSFERS of thr r;j{ht«K» rem >v? p/rns mi 1 tlSmmi.
* tion« from the human bady, as tecured to Or fcLis4\
PERKIhfS, by patent, with mltru ncnUa.jd directions no
ceflary for the practice. Tiis mode <*' treatment u piriicu*
iarly ufefuJ in. relieving pain* in tbe :?ea-j -i»cc t isf-tij, brta!l,
Gde, stomach, b* k, rheuinatifm*. recent goitffe &c. Jkc.
the utility of this praiiice. »t it not pre*
fumed but ibere are cases m mriiich this and eve y other
a remedy may foroetime* fail.
June 18, i AW
k PROPOSAL
FOR CARRYING THE
Mails of the United States,
On *he following *outes. w»jj_hn ... A.i.y*tin.
um~n l^e? iHt day of Sep*ember next.
l . /rom Savannah by Sunbury co Xcwpo-*-audge, pnce <r»
awt.
Receive the Mail h Savannah every Sa'ardiy br 9 \ M ar .
rive at Suabury by 6 PM, and at Newport Bridge on Sun
day by 10 A M. Returning. Leave Ne a port Bridge 0-1 Sun]
day bv 3 P M. a»ci arrive ar Sunbury ui tae evening, and at
Savannah oa Monday by 6 P \l.
e. From Newport bridge by Darien and Brunf-.vkk, to St.
Mary'iy once in two weeks,
the Mail at Newport Bridge every other Sunday
*r6on, and arrive at St. Mary's the next Weduettav by 5 PM.
Returning. Leave St. Mary's the next day, Tmirftiay by 8 A
M, and arrive at Newport Bridge the next Sjndav by io A M.
1 Note 1. 'f either of the routes areaiteredb\taw, during tfucon
• 11 nuance of the Contracts, the Contrail or is to obfr 1 e such alterations
' in carrying the mail, and his pay is lobe encrcjfel or dimihifked, in
< proportion to the iifUnce encreafed or diminiflict by such alteja&n.
s Note 2. The Contracts arc to be in operation on the firjl day of
O&ob* rext, and to continue for four years until the 30 tk Sepicnx
. j bcr, 1800, imlufi •e.
. I i\ T <>te 3. ThePoft } Mafler General may alter the times oj arrival
i departvrl at any time during the continuance of the Contrails, he
prevtoufly fliputating an adequate compensation for any extra exper.fe
\ i Mj? may be occahoncd thereby.
- " Not e 4. Fifteen mmjdcs shall be allowed fbr ofreninr andUojing
,I he nu *rl at all offices whe~e.nopartjcklar time is fpecifiza.
1 Nottjg. Fir every hour*s delay (unavailable accidents exceptedJ
! in arriving after the times prefnibed in any contrail, the contractor
[ball forfeit one dollar And if the delay continue un it the dep'rU
■ ure of any depending mail, whereby the mrnlf dcjlmed for fuoi dc
- pending mail jhall lofeatrip, the contraSor {kail forfeit ten doUon
! —to be icduHtd from his pa*
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Port-Matter Genera!.
Gfvekal Post Of pics,
Philadelphia, Jun? 28. 17q6- iaw6w
1 Lottery and Broker's Office,
A ° 64 South Second/Ireel,
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery No. U, arc now re«-
dv lor fait. a Check £o£>k kept for the exuuinatiC'B
| of Tickets, and Prize paid, -without dedu<2io».
1 The Subscriber solicits the application of the Public or
any ol his friends who wist to par h fe or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of_E X chin s c, or Notes, Houses, Lands,
Lotts or M'Tchaodlse of any kind, or to obtain Mgrc?
ou deposit of procerty.
WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
Late Jgtnt far the Canal LeK-ry Company.
0- Shares an l Tickets in tie late ' Newport I.onr
harf, Hotel and Public School LoiEKT ctsniiiicd \ a
complete lift of all the prizes having been received at
this •ffice.
June 6. w3w
For sale by the fubferibers,
I IN PEW-STREET,
X3O quarter Chefls fre(h Hvfon Tea :
«» dhw do: rrelh Souchong Tea,:
30a Boxes China, containing small tea setts of At
pieces;
400 pieces Bandauoes.
Willing hf Francis.
January. 3 o 3 , aw>
Urbanna iVjjH Seats ,
QITUATX in Cecil connty, Maryland, on the banks of
he , riVer SuC l about one mile above tide wa.
ter and commanding th« wa «r of th.n important river,
Ae channel condnding th. trade of which come, so near
. : Se - ts f " , - kc ;t convanientto speak tlic boats;
and Mills naay he so fftaatedas to receive thein a 1..,. 2 their
walls, and by watcr-llfti tuke in their cargoes
r r , I, 0 , 14 3 P ° Wcr fu/ficient for ".any and any kin ! «f
comm tA 1" W °r k l' m3y juflly said in
c.mmenda t .oaof this Sate a, would (k- inconvenient to
iniv.rt in a newspaper publication.
find »lem7^r y n efi , rc^- be Conccrncd . will probably
find emfdves well pleased On viewing the GtuJion.
f' r"r n L te T of , 7Ca " raa y 1"-'"obtained on appK
cation to the fubferjber, living on the premises.
April ,0 CLEMENT HOLLY DAT. '
law^m
w ,On Monday (Jai^)
ft T t whirs . of Superb,
Miig of*" ' frotn j araa 'ca and Havanna, cort
l Molafles in Hogsheads,
Coffee in hogsheads, barrels & bass-
FCR SALE BY '
PETER BLIGHT,
Who has also for sale,
A quantity of Jamaica GINGER,
Pimento 8c 1
Cocoa, | In Ba gs,
And ,50 boxes Hambro' WINDOW GLASS, 7 by o, will
befoid c^o.
u y 2 °_ diot & tuth & s lot
No. * r
Dijlrift of Pennsylvania : to wit.
Bio .hrT c' that °" the day of June,
the of the GUed
denofited ln rhi« Ca 'fK 0 U mrod ' thc Dillria hath
he claims as Pr °• e '"' e °f a book, the right whereof
•' A short r^ P "^° r ; ,n the w » r <ls following? to wit :
" divinity; of Cl,ri ! l ' ,
u Chrifl is tw r 11 P"c(Hcv s opinion coacerauv
"Sv H™' W CO,, ,dCrCd - 10 ' 10 3 f ""
Pnilofoni.ir »l 4 Wkmtoh, n. D. and Member of:
"' W ;" lioc ' e, y ° f Philadelphia.
"er Let^r.h'""r"" thC hmr hath nnt ,he Ti
'•-|rAmThil Cr orcah dc you whli' ye hj»e" he
■ - C 55„ nln E' .'''at which ye have heard from i
" 3 rcma ' n you. ye also {hall continue
.. >> 1 in the father. St-John, ,ft£pift. c. ii. v. a.
Ir,£r?!7 tO A h ; afl of the C »"g-r« of the United State.
curiniT the mri- J cr tht c " cou "gemeni of learning, by fe
and « • • t Charts and Books, to the authors
mention*!'' ' copies, during the times <herei»
mCnUoned - SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Cleik of the of Peniifylvania*
Juneig ujww
.lafiniwM -■ ■ 1 1— *
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—-No. 119 —
CHESNUT-STREET.
IPrisfc Eight Dollars per Annum.]