| #a?ette of the Unites States, & Philadeiph ia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmsx* 1328-] SATURDAY J*VENIN§, DECEMBER 10, 1796. ['Volume X.
For £>t. Croix, Ms
— The brigantine FAME,
Francii Kwox, Matter.
T at Wilnot Street wharf and eipeft- Dt
or three day.. For passage only apply qu ;
,0 th= captain, or, KEARN y WHARTON. fir,
t 5 6t -
P«e- 6 • G<
For Sale,
I at
The Ship ADELAIDE, cq
•JfoTjp. Of New Tori*
1 Lying at the fubleriber's wharf—bur- tk
,* W tons, <he is a stout well bu.lt d<)
veflel, Wl< built by the day for a Houfc Jar
is New-York,under the infpeftion of a '°^ e F^ d
in Her— ha, been only one voyage t# London and Charltf __
I„n and fails fatter than any vessel out of the port of New
York—Apply to WILLIAM BELL.
Who has received by the said (Hip from Charleston— fit
I? Tierces frelh Rice, and a few calks of Ground Nut!. ha
Dec. 6. * " mi
_ ftr
For Sligo and Killibegs, -
The American Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, master.
w;il fail with all convenient speed. For A
( „;,hiorp.«is"»ppiy>» wn|iamßcll .
Who has for sale, <
. Trunk* Printed Cottons, well aflprted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and » boxes Linen.
t< Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Russia Matts. J,
•Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
-O.VTMft-AL, &e,
f November 11, 179&, mwftf t<
*, For Madeira,
The /hip Concord,
Cap l - J° hn Thomson. For freight el
-y-,f-nr passage apply on board, or to h
Peter Blight; 0
Who has for fate, a quantity ®f
Brandy, in pipes
Whiting and Copperas, in hogiheads
Old Hock, in cases
Dutch Cream-Cheese, in boxes
Window Glafi
Empty Gin-Cases
Glass Ware, in boxes _ _ I
v " Painters' Colours, ground in oil
Sweet Oil, in cases of a dozen bottles each
Hazlenuts, in sacks. Nov. n. dim
FOR SALE,
SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
T * Joseph* anth'onv, &co.
If the M ARY is not fold in a few days, fhewill take _
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
October 31.
For Charter,/
The Ship JOHN BULKFLT,
■ijU&gt AVRES STOCKLEy, Master.
An excellent live-oak and cedar btnlt
of about 3000 barrels burthen. —Ap-
yeffe Iff Robert fff aln.
Nov. * ' d -
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
w!o'SyJt Samuel Pile, Master,'
W£slvLi*'Burthen 105 47*95 tßns register, built in
Philadelphia in the vear 1791, of live oak
aid red cedar, and was sheathed 13 months ago, (he
has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be lent to lea
at a very trifling expence.
BSPsL For terms apply to
~pl)ilip Nickhn tsf Co.
Who have for fait on beard said vessel,
#7 rafks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing slates.
1 box ink stands and note presses.
14 hales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
teas.
Souchong )
ao,ooo pieces Nankeens of the fi-rft quality.
19 tubs Qmekfilver.
2 chefis Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chests Manchester goodswel! aflorted in Cor
duroys thicksets, Gnjgharas, Muflinets, Dimities, &e.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
lisp ci-atcs Q'n-ens ware well auorfced.
10 tows sheet lead.
Nails assorted, flat and (harp points.
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes
1.W.0n Market, r an( j hogsheads.
New-York Market, J
40 p;p»s and 10 hogsheads Tenenfte wine.
8 tierce* Snake Root.
130 logs Mahogany. ttKVftf
Nov- 7.
A FOR SALE.
A VJurble SOAP Mid CANDLE Mannfaflory, filuate
i„ . part of the city ; «hc works ne *'
, «rnm emitrly original crathuftion, and built o
m«.k r.M p»v !.e fct to work immdM^
who with to purchtfe.are rcqucfted to apply at No 273,
Sou'h Sccpmt Street. September 13. til tt
for sale,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL filiated, laving on and between Marsh
ar.J Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four separate Patents. For terms oi sale apply to
- Wm. Blackburn;
No. 64, S»mh
OcVotier yt. mwitf '
J
EZEKIEL HALL
HAS REMOVED hi» Compting-Room to No. 42,
North Water-flreet, where he has for sale
f Boflon Rum, Beef & Mackarel.
December 8. 5
f * 1 ta:
1 For Sale at thit Office,
Twenty-fix Letters, upon inte- ci
s ruling fubje£ts,
h Refpefting the Revolution of America ; D
Written in Holland-in-Hw Year
s > bis Excellent?. JOHN ADAMS,
lt Whilelie was so e Minifler Plenipotentiary from the r
United States cf Amtrica, for negociating a Peace,
and a-Treaty cf""CtjrnMerce, with Great-Britai*. —
A few-topirs-of'tefcbove pamphlet are yet on hand, No
— j and mavibe had at office of the Gazette of the United
Stato, >}e. 119, r^; tt
Dec. .5. §6
E, THE fartnerfiiip of JONATHAN HARVEY & Co. J);.f
ie being this day DilTolved by m»tual confcnt, those indebt- j) r „
at ed to said firm arc requested to make fpcedy payment to | p; ne
e- Jocathan Harvay, who is aflthorized to receive the fame, j^ ov
and those whd have any demands will please to bring in
thpir accounts to him for fettlemmt j~j
The Bujinsfs will be Continued —
By Jpnathan Harvey, 1
«. AT HIS STORE NO. 106, S. FRONT-STREET;
' Where he has for Sale,
A general afTortment of Dry Goods, wii
November 14, 1796. $im Tw
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76, .
BTGH-STREET, A f
, Hai received by the late arrivals, Bai;
A IVell Selected A s sortMZtrr of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and Ej ''
Haberdashery 5
Which he will fell, wholesale and rtuil, on the very
loucft terms ; Hoi
— Amongjl which are Am
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8. Chjlntzet and Cottons, new Af<
patterns Silli
* n Ditto Furniture ditto Lik
bc Ditto Dim-ity Oft
en Tamboured, Book, and Jacoact Muflint Mo
Ditto in Gp'ul and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fre
Miintuas of the firft quality
Silk srnd Cotton H<sfiery
Umbrella:: of the firft quality, affbitexi J
feriili Linen*, very fine, ar.d Table Linen —■
Marseilles aiid Cotton Counterpanes
Rofc Blankets affertcd—&c. &c.
o(ftob?r 26. d
Iriih Linens, &c. fci;
Imported per the jhips Glafgo<ix>y from Dublin, Liber
ty% from Cvrk, arid btig Mentor, from Be If aft,
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
y In whole and half boxes,
Afiorted froni lid. to 4s. sterling—Also 5-4 wide W1
.^hoetings, and low priced yarn and werfted Hofc. cei
f _ On Hand, i 7"
WWic '■nirj. •* - a
Diapers and Table-Cl®th?
A lew boxesTickena and Checks ll '
A few bales Flannels
Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, No«. 1 and 6 aTI
25 Soies •). C 6 by 8, e J
ic Ditto > Window Glafi, < 7 by 9, 1-3
5 Ditto ) C 8 i>y 10. atl
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
dravvb*k, and will b« difpo.'td, o£ by the package on an
reasonable terms.
tU James,' Clibborn & English,
No. 6, N. Froat-ftreet. —
loth mo. 19th. dtf
Befl: Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmsn !a bbla.
47 bbU. prime Coifee, *
Bell Boston Beef,
Codßfh in hd».
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 nI T
Northern j U
Jo. Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior
J_ qu^liiy.
A few boxes excellent brown soap,
6 Bale» of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lilbon Wine.
1 t ' lc A few sacks of .Feathers.
A few bales India Mullins. t
T FOR SALE BT n
y JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
th. Oflober 31.
pth *
■■for Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received per the Diana, front London, a
r 7be Clouded and striped Spanilh Swanfdown c
Clouded Erminats and Molelkins f
Striped do. and do.
Figured Manillas (
Scarlet figured Erminets t
« Printed Florinetts (
Do. Ciffinets and Caflimeres \
lne ' Superfine printed Quiltings, newest patterns ,
Also, per different arrivals, I
k3 A large and general assortment of Dry |
cases Goods, <
Suitably to the present and approaching season. 1
November 5.
1 - 1 -'- 1 ■ ' 11
Cheap French China.
afo»- THE fubferibers finding it impossible to fnpply their ,
Taes, ore w ,i,h a py roo re China from France, the prices t
Iker- being too immoderate in the majiufadlories, give no- 1
6_ 4 tice that they will fell at prime 1 oft the remaining ;
fleck on hand, consisting of '
DeiTert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
m Separate Cups and Saucers
Groupes and Figures
Alabaster Vases
Looking GlalTes. in gilt frame*,
Befidcs India Jzpan'd Toilet Dciks, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille & Co.
N«. 91, Soutii Second-llreat.
d. December sth. tts
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
Ko. j 68, HIGH-STREET.
Has for But, Wsolesaie and Retail,
Madeira wine, of ift quality,
Old Sherry, Liifcon, and Port Wines,
Cognac Brandy,
Jamaica Spirits,
Wine bitters and
Claret in ciltz.
Also fer file,
A few barrels of excellent Beef.
December 7. d*
For Sale,
e By George Defchamps, No. 91,
- NOR TH &IXTH-STKEET,
Nova-Scbtia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels "
Ditto Herring and Mackarel. •
r- Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
'• Ditto Salmon, by rtie d'oien or fingfe one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals
° j Fine and cparfe Salt
: ' Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and gTound, for manure and stucco-work
December t.
Imported from London Ss 5 Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, in crates and hogfijeads, well
' aflbrted
Winj Bottles in hampers
'» Window GUfs of all fi?e«
Two cases of stationary
One chest of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A small consignment of Rose Blankets, Flannela,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plain*, &x.
Paints of various colors. I
j Basket fait in hoglheads,
- * Alfa on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hegfi*cad» and
ry quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
j Anchors of different fi7.es
:w A few trunks of ladies French ftioei aflbrted
! Silk nan keen, flee.
j Likewise an affartment of Dutch poods, consisting of
I Ofnaberj'S, ticklenbergs, bed-ticks, stripes, checks,
j Morlaix linen, platillas, ra»ens duck, Britannias, &c»
And for i'ale by the package only by
Thomas & John Ketland.
Walout-ftreet Wharf,
j Nov. ij. eotf
j SALT PET RE.
I A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
1 sale at No. is, South Tbird-ftreet.
November 5.
Dancing.
S, -
MR. FRANCIS of the Ncw-Theatr«, in conjun.lioo
ids I with Mr. BYRN, late Ballet-mailer, and principal dan
cer of Covent-Ciardeii Theatre, now of the New-Theitre
I —will open an Academy at Mr. Oellers Hotel, on Tues
day, December 73, where th*y propose to teach in the
moS new and approved methods, dancing in its various
I ulefuland ornamental branches.
Mr. Byrn's recent attention to the dances of London
itid Paris will enable him to complete this branch of
education in his lcholars in the most finiftied.ftyle.
I Favorite Scotch reels will also engage their particular
I attention.-
the for farther particulars enquire of Meflrs, Franci*
on 1 andßyrn, No. 70, north Ei);hth-oreet.
I Private tuitian as usual.
November 30* mw&f
CONSTITUTIONS. *
''' This Day is Published,
And to be Sold by W. WOODHOUSE, No. 6,
South Front-street.
T H 4
Constitutions of the United States,
I ACCORDING TO
The Latest Amendments.
r j or j To which are annexed,
The Declaration of Independence,
AND
The Federal Constitution,
With the Amendments thtretc.
I This Edition contains the late Constitutions of New-
HampQiire, Kentucky, and Tennessee, not in any for
mer one. Nov. 26. Jit
'• 1 TO BE SOLD,
A LEASE for frven years, from tie 2 $tk March next, in tint
capital and beautiful FARJ\d % called
PROSPEC T-H I L L,
I Situated within oae quarter of a mile from the Brandywinc
I Mills, and hall a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
<"pHE dwelling house is built of stone, two (lories high,
A gentcrlr finifhed, and containsfour handfomc raomi on
a floor, besides an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
cellars. It is generally thought to commjnd the most a
greeable profneft of the Delaware, from the source of that
I rlvsi to the Capes. This prolpeft ia greatly embellished by
I a full view of a vafl body of meadow, through which the
Clirilliam and Brandy wine creeks are seen winding in beau*
| titul meanders. Nesr the house are a Kitchen, a fpaotoua
I stone and hayloft, a barn, a carriage house, mflk-
I hoafe, &c. 'and a well of as puie as any on the conti
nent. The garden coutains an acre and quarter of land, a
bounding with fruit, and particularly with peach trees, of
[) r y I the very belt kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear.
' \ ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a young, apple
i orchard begining to bear, and leveral old trees that produce
jn. I abundantly, besides cherry and other ornamental trees, in
great numbers. The farm confiftt of near sixty acres of land,
| of good quality, and clear of incumbrances, except taxes,
twenty of which aren»w in exoellcnt clover and timoihy,
and ten more will be ready for Towing nexl spring. A r«-
thtir Hderice et nearly 8 years has convinced the fubferiber that
jrices Vhe fnuation is remarkably healthy, The great poll toad
v no- from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within seventy
ining yards of the house. In a word, the beauties and conveni
ence of this situation cannot be enumerated in an advertise
ment, and when examined, will probably command the at
tention of any person who is difirous of living at one of the
mod elegant country feau on the continent. The puretwfrr
may enter on the premihs neit spring, or perhaps, this fait,
if application be immediately made to Dottor NICHOLAS
WAY, i* Philadelphia, to WHARTON, on the
premiies, or, iu his ab'ence, to Mr. CEORGE TRUITT, in
'ables Wilmington.
Co. A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the groand, some
■»t Stock, <scc, may he had by the purchaser at the time of (ale.
' tts No- . 7 . .QdtfNew Theatre.
On MONDAY EVENING, December it,
Will be presented, a TRAGEDY, called
The Fair Penitent.
Sciolto, Mr. Warren.
Altamont, Mr. Fox.
Horatio, Mr. Cooper,
(being bit second appearance..)
Lothario, Mr. Moreton.
RofTano, * Mr. Darky, jun.
Califla, Mrs. Merry.
(being her second appearance.)
Lavinia, Mr«. Francis.
Lucilla, . Mrs. Harvey.
To which will be added,
A F ARC £, in two ait 9, called
Who's the Dupe ?
DoiW, Mr. Morris.
Sandford, Mr. Wi^nell.
Granger, Mr. Moreton.
Gradusj Mr. Harvjooti.
Servant, Mailer Worrell.
Miss Doi'ey, Mrs. Francis.
Charlotte, Mrs. Harvey.
Box, One Dollar 'wenty-fiv* cents. Pit one Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.
0" Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's fiook-ftore,
No. 5-9 High-flreet, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precilely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to be taken at the Office in the
front 'if (he theatre, from 10 till i o'clock, and from
10 till 4 pi) the days of performance.
Ladies'and Gentlemen are reqtielied to fend their
servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as fiion is the company are seated, to
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
No money or tickets to be retu ned, nor any
person, on any account whatsoever, admitted behind
the scenes.
VIVAT RES PUB Lie J!
' Os SATURDAY EVENING, the roth Dectmbcr, at
6 o'clock, a' the Merchant's Coffee-Houfe, will be
fold, the following
Houses, Lots, and Meadow Ground :
TWO Beat w«ll finilhed three story brick houses, 16 l-»
feet front, with convenient kitchens, north fide markfet
between Sevenfji and Eighth-ftrcets. Each house has the
privilege of an alley. The lots are 150 feet in depth.
On« two story brick house in Zan» Street, commonly
tailed Sugar-alley ; the house is 16 1-2 feet front on said
Jtllty, with a gootl kitchen. The lot is 90 feet in depth.
One vacant lot adjoining the said house in Zane-(lr«et,
16 1-3 feet front, and 90 feet deep, at the end of 00 feet
-■ the said lot widens to 33 feet and runsback to the Market
street lots m feet.
One two story brick house and kitch n in Zane-ftreet,
16 I-i feet front, The lot 45 feet in depth.
One other lotlituated at the diftancc sf 92 feet from the
etftfide of Eighth street, containing inU ngth eaftand well
40 feet, and in breadth north and south 10 feet, fubjeil to
a yearly ground rent of 40s;
I? 1-1 acres (according to the origual deed) of choice
meadow ground, with a whirs on the river Delaware,
Paffyunk township, late the estate of the widow Parker.
Three acres and 6 perches of meadow ground, in Paf
fyunk tevnftip.
Any person inclinable to treat for the above property at
private sale is refuelled to enquire of George Cooper,
corner of maiket and Fourth ftrcets, south fide.
Nov. 17. dtf.
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth-Jlreet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Wends and the Public for thsir liberal encouragement,
«nd begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive alfortment of the
Moji Fajbionable GOODS,
Asid of the bjl quality, suitable for the frufon.
At this shop Gentlemen can be furnifhed withthe bed
materials, and have them mide up in the neatest and mod
Falhionable manner, and on the (hortcfr ftotite. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
punAual attention to them.
November 10. . wi
Old London particular Madeira Wine,
Landing from en board the barque Eagle, Capt. Bates,
and for sale by ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
November 113. c'dtf
Just Arrived,
In the (hip Dispatch, Captain Morton, from Havre
de-Grace, and for sale by
Isaac Snowden, jun. No. 141,
SOUTH SECOND STREET,
An invoice of Gloves of various kinds, Men's
White Silk Hose, lilack and White Laces, and a few
pieces of Black Silk.
December i. £xv.
Ten Dollars Reward.
LOST, last evening, a small packet of French Pa
rr*?, among others, an -account due to the Citizen
Martinet, and a poxyer of attorney to the Citizcs
Whoever has found the fame, and will
leave it with the Primer, or with Cit'zen Thibeaalt, No.
ftjl- South Second-street, (hall have the above reward.
December 7. *3
Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
For Two Gentlemen, may be had at No. 6.5, south
Third-street, opposite the New Bank—Where a few
Gentlemen may be accommodated in the belt man
ner with Boarding only.
December 5. *4
WAN T E D; v
A WOMAN of good to undertake the
tare of a child,' and who would occasionally do other
work in t family. Apply at No. 109, Spruce-street.
stli December. f -j-j
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Ofiice, No. 147, Chcfnut
f;reet, where a correfi Numerical Book isktpt for public
infpeAion. Alfio Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for.ptiZLS diaw>: in the V'alhington Lottery, of
whieh the 44th aud 45 ih flays returns are received.
<& Th» Business ut a Broker carried on as usual. 1
».*A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fold
«■ reafrmable terms. Dtctuibcr g ttstf
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Season,
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, 12
wiles on the Briflol Road, whrregood (tabling is pro
vided, and great care will bs tJitn of them
William Belt.
Nov. Ij. mwfjwmihtf.
Philadelphia, December 10.
d Yeltcrday at twelve o'clock, both hotifci of the
Legislature of this commonwealth, being affeflfibfed
in the Senate chamber, the Governor delivered to
them the following %
SPEECH.
Gentlemen of the Senate, aid
Gentlemen of the House of Reprrfentativci ;
INVESTED with the arduous, though honour
able trust, of legislating for a free and enlightened
people, you w ill be gratified in contemplating so fa
vourable an opportunity, for the peiformance of
your duties, as theprefent feafo*of peace and prof
pen'ty.
To provide for the prefcrvation and admtnidra
tion of the republican system, under wlii- h our
eountiy has 8-iuridicd beyond example ; —to im
prove and protect the inilttu'tiohs, that are design
ed for the advancement of vir ue, (he flidemination
of knowledge, and the adim nftration «f juHice ; —
and to multiply the means, by which every species
of honest indudry, m>y be effectually encouraged
and rewarded ; are the great objeSs confided to
r » your wisdom and patriotism. For thefeobjects (it
mud be allowed) mush has already been done ; but
it is implied in their vciy nature, that mueh will al
way» remain to db : the increase of population,
ie the extension of agriculture and commerce, the
progress of arts, and the inevitable viciffi'udf of
e human puffions and purfui:9, cs» never fail to fur
" nifh occasions, for the of legislative care
.1 and authority.
j While affording the aid to your deliberations,
0 which the conftitu:ion requires from the executive
migiflra'e, permit mc, gendemes, so suggest some
of the amendments, of which our laws, on these
y fundmental points, appear to be susceptible.
in lelittion to the organization, and the operati
ons of a representative republic, the rights and rules <
_ of el'cflion, demand peculiar attention. From the 1
complex character of our political association, the 1
e rights of fiffrrtge may be acquired in various modes >
—by birth,hy natural 7-ation in thiicommonwealth,
; or by naturalization in a;iy of our filter common- 1
2 wealths ; —but the fucceilive changes of the (late '
t and federal constitutions, have so deranged the pro- '
e visions which the law had previouHy made, that a '
declaratory has become necessary, it is thmght. 1
j to render the fubjedt clear (it it ought to be) to '
every undemanding. The atlop i 11 of fueh a mea
:, sure, extending to a general rtvifion of the election 1
c laws, I trust it will be deemed expedient t® iucor- '
' porate into one system, all the regu'rions that rt?f- 1
peift the federal, as well as (late offices, and to in- 1
troduce additional fanflions, for fecuiing,' at this ■
e lource of the health and vigor of the body politic, (
1 purity and independence, vigilance and impartiality, '
3 The difficulties, which have arisen in the '
E election and returns of the electors of a President '•
:, and Vice-PiefiJent of the United S ates, have re- I
• cently attracted the public attention, and are pecu- '
liarly calculated to enfurce any rccoitmendatioß, on 1
t the iiitet*fji'ig fubjeift, ta which I l ave just adver- '
> ted. By the law, it is made the duty of the pro- \
tho-notarics te dv'.iv«nlt«-Tcttt™a oi thrtTTefpeei 1
tive counties within 14 days after the election ; and '
it is made the duty of the executive to enumerate 1
the votes, to proclaim the electors having a tnsjori- 1
ty t>f votes, and to cause those elcitorg to be uoti- 1
1 fiid of their election, on, or befoi* the last Wed- {
nefday of the month. In a few of the counties, )
however, the votes of particular diltr'cU for various, t
reasons, wvrc not included, in the general returns-; f
and the returns of several of the remote counties c
were not received, when the term, pr-fqribed to 1
the protho-notaiies, for executing their trust, hud "
j expired. By the precedent, aftablifhed on the opi- r
nion of the judges and the attorney-general at the '
ele£tion of eledors in the year 1792, and confirm- t
rll in the fame manner on the late oecaiion, the li- 0
mitatLn imposed on theprotho notaries, could only 1
be conftdered as directory with refpeft to the/'reon- 'J
du£t, and not as an exclusion of returns delivered t
at a subsequent period : The limitation imposed r
likewifeon the executive magistrate mud be confi
dered as' Hill referring it to his difcrrtion to delay : a
enumerating the votes, and proclaiming the public , n
choice, for any period, that.was com r aub!e with 'tl
the delivery of official netifications to the eleilor»v J ti
on the dry designated by the Legifliture. Witb )It
this authoritative exposition e>[ the law of ti
positive infoimation that elections had been held in ' p
all [j** countics ; and concluding from repeated d
ftatenients communicated to me, ihat the returns n
had been fraudulently intercepted, or accidentally tl
postponed, I determined, contraiy to my fiiit m- | ti
tention, but upon matuie confideratior>, a r,<J wl " t h h
the advice of the law offi.ers of the C* e, to defer A
the enumeration to the luted h..ur that 1 legally p
could ; and, in the mean time, to give a full and p
impaitial ojsportunity,.for i'upplyitig the tjgliejeucies, «
and correcting the errors of the general returns! '1
As the best pi oof of the propriety of this deter- d
mination, it now appeart, that bad I puc'ucj a con- I
trary course, the real voice of the people of Penn- a
"fylvaria, fairly given, and accurately ascertained, ft
would not have been announced. A neglect of the r<
judge# of election, to deliver :n foi m, the returns ai
of two diftri&s in Northumberland and Lycoming ft
counties ; and the ad of fending the irnil which m
contained the returns of Weflmorcland and Fayette c
counties, from Grcchfburgb, the pl;,ce of dep. fit, tl
or some subsequent ft'ge to Pitt(bucgb, iultead of h
being forwarded, as it ought to have betrt, to the c:
city of Philadelphia ; were the circumitaiices ( h« ci
latter of which will, lam perftiaded, undergo a tl
drift fcrtuiny fn the propel departmenr) that, with- ' (h
out any otherimputable negh'gence, or delinquency, ! et
in the voters, or in the returning officer', bf the bi
date, had occasioned the deh y and difficulty, wlkjch I pi
I have defciibed But, upon the whole, 1 am pi
confident, that you, Gentlemen, that every can- ! ct
did citizen, will agiee, confoimably to the opi." : p
ii>n and advice upon which I have site', that ct
no fm-ll fraud, force or ac. ident, diould be a'. ' th
lowed to divert or defeat, the regular operations
of the public ch-ice ; and thut whenever the real ot
sense of the pec.ple can be authenticated, the re- of
mifiicfs, the mjliakcs, th« malverfatu»;>» o£ cS- ta
' ft
5 cer*, who are appointed meiely fn pr<-fi|'vt so. m
and order, in tranlading the bufinef# of ule&ions,
cannot be fufficient to preclude investigation, in
contradidion to evidegceand reason, nor toefiablirti
he error, at the expence of truth and justice. It is
id that the ail rifpedtng the choice ofeledors,
to nas not provided a fpecific mode for examining and
deciding upon the controversies- which have arifcn,
and, probably, will often rife, at election* of such
importance j but it is the conflitutional duty of the
executive to take care, that all the laws
of the (late (hall be faithfully executed ; and it is
ir- my earned wish, that the expression of the legiflv
ed j tive will, may - always be made so explicit and fa
Fa- ample, as to leave nothing for conftru&ion to ex
o'f plain, or discretion to supply.
jf. It will be universally acknowledged, that to
guard a republican government again ft internal en
•a. croachments, or external violenet, a well organized
ur and well difciplinrd militia, is the only fafe and ef
ti- ficient iuftrument 5 and yet, it is, also, obvious,
n- that the police of Pennsylvania is not, in any re
in fpe&i fore feeble ahd defective. Let it then he
_ remembered, that the dang-r of for»ign hostility
es ( hough I anxionfly hope it is remote) il not a vi
sionary evil j aud that the emergencies will fome
to times anfe in the beil ordered communities, which
it the power of the civil magiflrate is not competent
ut to encounter. In either cafe, if the militia ca not
il. be seasonably embodied, it will be found hazardous t
n, and improvident, to ttuft the defence and tra-quil 1
jc lily of the date, to the only alternatives that oc <
of cur; —a permanent military force, or the casual |
r- exertion of volunteers. Upon this topic, hower- <
re ver, gentlemen, every opportunity has been em- <
braced, to engage the attention of the legiflatute ; t
s, par.icularly, at a period, when the reputation, if <
te nor the security, of our government was menaced j 1
ie and when a greater expence was incurred to obvi- r
fe ate, in a lingle inftancr, the cinbarraflTments prp- t
duced by the imperfe&ion of the existing law, than -i
[. W 'uld be neeeflary for conftamly maintaining, in
a Hate of preparation and energy, a judicious and t
, e liberal eltablirtiment of the militia. Referring, r
ic therefore, to the records of the general aflembly, a
tB and to the report of the adjutant-general, which 1
), will be laid before you, for a fpecification of the r
). impiovements efifentially requiftte, I can only add e
e an opinion, fortified by every day's experience, t
). that the duty which we owe to our immediate con- I
a ilituents, our federal obligations, public convetii- v
t. ence, and genuine ecotromy, concur in recommand v
0 ing a prompt and radical reform. i
j. That a general diffufion of tifeful knowledge
n mong the citizens of a republic, serves invariably a
p . to repress the spirit of licentious reft, and to che- t
f. rifh a sense of rational liberty, the history of na- I
1. tioils, and the speculations of philosophers, are, r
; s alike, calculated to demonstrate. ImprefTed, -in- p
deed, with this important truth, the framers of v
r t our eonftitution have emphatically imposed 3n ob- t
e ligation upan the legislature, to devise and establish t
it as) (l< mof education, "in ftith'manner, that the r
poor, throughovit the (late, may be taught gratis." e
1. Independent, therefore, of the motives, which it
n wc uld, otherwise, «<Sluare every wife and benevo- ».
■. lc:it statesman, all the offspring of indigence and o
penury have an interesting Sc incontrovertibly right ti
. to the enjoyment <>f a public premfttm, Pir the il- 13
J Inmiiiation of their minds, and the cultivation of t
e their faculties. But, (till, regarding the inftitu- ti
tion only as an auxiliary to perpetuate the bleffirtgs .it
[. of a free government, and to assimilate the lan- a
|. guage, feutiments, a\id manners of the ciCzcns, v<
S) you will sot, lam confident, gentlemen, allow it ti
to be retarded by the fuggeftioiis of a parsimonious ti
. policy; nor to be fettered by any reftriiflion, pro- w
s feeding from local jealousy, or habitual prejudice, o
0 Every of the community is i:ttere(led in the ti
j well being of the whole: the-fecurity of each d
. member will always, in some degree, depend upon e
e the intelligence and virtue of the reft: And thus, tl
. the measure now contemplated, as well as every si
. other measure for the public benefit, is nothing tl
y more, in fad, than a common medium, through
. which all the individuals of the fame faciely, (how- It
J ever clh'fed, and wherever (ituated) infallibly de- p
J rive a jail proportion of advantage. fl
so this branch of our review, maybe properly ti
j 1 annexed the considerations thut refpcA the depart- o
: | ments, and public offi es, in which the business of o
1 ■ the (late is tranfacled; since it must be nugatory 'I
v , to u-cogfiize the theory of a free government, , un
> j less the mode of adminiSering it, (hall, at the fme t<
f | time, be arranged and enforced, on a corresponding n
1 principle of order, simplicity and energy. | n the t(
1 depart -ient of accjunts, and the land office, fevc- tt
j tal i.nprovements will be suggested by the reports of tl
I the relptctive officers ; but it is incumbent op me is
.j to represent, that the de ith of the state trtafurer c<
1 having o:c|fioned a vacancy in that offi e ; a-,tl pi
r fume doubis entertained of the coniiitutbnal ft
of the executive, to mike a temporary ap. Y
1 pointment, during the recefa of the legiflatur?, .1 ti
, } was h ppy to find, that neither the intercJt, nor at
. j the credit, of thr government would fuffer, by ik in
- decli tiug any direil interference on the o rafiori. C
- It will be pioper, however, to provi ie, l;y la-.v, ti
■ the inconveniences, that may tefult from a ei
, similar fit nation at any future period : And you will la
r re dily excufn my reminding you, that an adequate fit
s arrangement has not yet been mad'e, for establishing to
f suitable buil ;iugs to contain and prtferve the public d<
1 records; particularly such as relate to the land- of
• offi.e, to the office of the register of wills, and to ci
, tlie office of the pro;honotancs of the several courts m
t held in the city of Philadelphia, which ate now ni
' ex puled, to conflaat danger from fire, and other ac- th
1 cidfms. If, indeed, the removal of the feat of cl,
1 the Cede'l l government, or any other occurrence pi
.| (houid prevent the building, which has been lately
, erected by the (latr (and of which an account will 131
t. be Ktd before you) from being permanently occu- pr
>1 pied according to its original dcilination, it mighr, th
1 perha,,s, be cor.vcnientlf appropuated to the ac- m
commodation of the legiflaiive ard executive H e - tu
pjrtments, so as to preclude the n«ccfihy of in- th
j tuning ar.y additional expence, kr the i-rrpofe ta
■ tnf.i has been intimated. * f t j c
Proceeding, gerulerr.ei, to a consideration of T
our public injtitutions, for promotinpr the pradice lis
of virtne, and rhe adminifttation justice, the an
lanthropic and patriotic »in 4 will discover i B the j in,
m, iiiicyfs tlut 1i» !»Itl-er*« ex« C r<*
i, the noblest wwaid, at weU » Jt »e V
in to perfeve-ance. Ihe penal code of Pennfvlvi '
Ih purified from Ft. ancient faoguinaty liuin, ou'min ■',[ ■
i. to evtnre it. efficacy in pruducin* rhe only rc f'v
■8, that can be defined from the inflation w au ■'
id ment—the reformation of offender., and the f™ '
n tjr of the public : while the gen.nl
•h our courts of juU.ce, leem, ooljr to wan, , p:)r! ;,
le of the equitable power, of a court of chan L
•' u aet r , :o , b l C ° rae eora P letel y "perati.e. | t m fjl
is be useless, however, on the firft of thrfe fubi-a. t,t
v submit to your eonfideratmi the expedien t" u / r .!
ducing all the penal laws into ose aft ; and on -h
t- other, to recommend that some
be adopted, te render the remote circuit, »[ u
» court* of common plea*, more convenient to
l- officers,as well aa to the citizens, wlio attend the n
•d The education of the poor being already
f. oned, it is o.rly necessary here to add, that i„ft lU) "
s, twins, cal<?nlatud to ftipply them at H ll felons, Vr ;
the materials for labour, and to afford the m an a !V.
e htm, when age or infirmity sfflia,, m'ift p lOVl ' a "
y powerful guarantee for that purity oPftioulj a „d
i- manners, to which idleness and extreme indigence
art incessantly and fatally opposed. The poor Us
h th,' laws relative to the ellablilhmentof work-houlVs'
t and the laws affording a le gl fl*tive patronage id
it public hospitals, claim, with this view, an early
is and careful revision. The temporary and gratuit.
ous aid granted for the relief of distressed French
emigrants, ha* been faithfully and effe£tnal!y ap.
il plied ; and independent of it* charitable uses, |, as
driuotlef*, produced many salutary effects a* an ad
of policy : but you will perceive, by, the report u[
; the agent* employed in distributing 'it, that there
f are (till some of the emigrants, to whom the cor, i.
» nuance of your bounty is necessary, as the ouljr
- means of fapport, and for whom, at this season Jf
i. t 1 e year, your humanity cannot fail to be deeply
i -interefled.
i Directing year attention, gentlemen, to the
3 means by which the iodtiftry of our fellow citizen
, may be encouraged, and rendered mi ll produce
, and beneficial to the community, it will at once be
l difcernod, that'the intetefts of foricty arefoin i.
; raatclv interwoven, and so mutually dependant, th„t
1 endowments, which might fupe.-ficially feetn to !«
, the immediate and exclusive advantage of-a particts
- lar art, science, or occupation, may always, nel
- verthelefs, be accurately traced throughout the
whole circle of our avocations and purfuii*, diffuf
ing a benign and salutary influence.
But the relations of agrictiltuie and commerce
r are, at this period of our national independence,,
the mod obvious, and perhaps the mud important,
to be canfidered cultivated. In order,' theiefore,
, reciprocally to promote' tbofe effentiil iatereii ■,
permit me earnestly to recommend a liberal perlc-
F vetance in tfie policy, of extending and fact .
• the communication between the different parti of
i the date by every practicable mode, of roads, of
■ rivers of bridges, and t/Snals. Indeed, the fpiritul
' example which your prrdtceffora g«vc, has excite',
i in one of our lifter Kates at let it, aa emulation I >,«/,
».£tive, as to demand fotne extraordinary cjcerliVr '
on out part, merely for preserving. that portiofc T
the benefits grifing'from an fnterecarfe >y?& the
WCElilll w Atsr*, to local
: tion, and other natural advantages, have jtilily en.
titled us. The towns that have been laid out, anj
i jn part fold (at a corifh'wable price) on lak* Erie,
and the western bordeis of the state, seem, like- i
wife only to require the means of free communica
tion, to ensure a rapid population,, and profptrous
i trade. But it may be prcptr here to revive the idea
which was intimated to the legifljturc on a former
occasion, that if a part of e*ch of tlie reserved
tra£t» ill the neighbourhood of those towns, wsj
divided into farms of convenient extent, and grant. Jaj
td, for a moderate coiif/deratiort to aftual-iculers,
the rneafure wotiid sfford additional fecurrty to the '
frontier inhabitants, and at the fame time enhance
the value of the remaining public property.
1 n all these efforts, however, to augment the opu
lence of the state, by extending the sphere of po
pulation and settlement, every poifibie ptecautien
(heuld be obfeivtd to prevent the feuds and litiga
tions which aie produced by thecollilioH of tides,
or by a Ipecieus oppotition of the equitable claim
of an or the legal rights of a patentee.
The appearance on our weliern trams r« th s
refpedt, of a nature to excite some and
to demand immediate care : nor will it be foum!,
upon examining the documents which 1 hi>v» direc.
ted to be laid before you. that the territorial cor.
troverfy at Wyoming, which has so long violated
the public authority,-and disturbed the pHblicpeicr,
is at all abated in its virulence, or audacity. In
compliance with the request of the legislature, a
proclamation, rtlatsve to the latter object, was is
sued, and communicated to the governors of New*
Yoik, Maffael.ufet;*, Rbode-Ifland, and Connee
titut ; and it affords me great pleasure publicly ">
acknowledge the alacrity and decision with which,
in every iuftance, except perhaps in the intt?nce of
ConneAicut, I was honoured with the aurhorit?.
tive co-operation of those magillrates. But it is
evident, from the systematic proceedings oi the
lawleft intruders on the Wyoming di(tri6t, that mes.
fures, more opeiative than those which hive hither
to been fan&ioned by the legislature, miift he n
dopted,'to evince the power, and aifert the right",
of the commonwealth ; Unless, under the pe. uh»r
circumi'lances of this controveify, it fltsil be th< t
mttft equitable and prudent, to promote a compp'- t
mile between the parties, by allowing either .
them to take, in comimitatiwu for the lands no n
claimed, a proporcional quantity ar iiuapproprtatr
public lands, in apy other part of the (late.
When considering the direct aid vvhLh the
lattire may afford to commercial itidnttiy
prize, it can scarcely be neceffaiy to rema:*., i-1
these ought ever to be diltinguifhed in then trea.-
ment, as they ate ever diltinguilhable '« t fir na
ture, from the wild and faicinating movements o
the fpjrit of fpe.ulation—a spirt: that never feus "
taint the morals, and to blight the credit o, the ra
tion which is exposed to its malignant influence.
Though it i* imp' ffible, tndcr the pii'fen' c,rc
ftaneesof our c..u»try, to avoid noticing tlri" <
and perhaps laraeriti that our governmei -, ' )
jindifcriraioate falc of the pub'ic lanes, -i- 8hated ta create it ; 1 will not pretend, gentlemen,
that it it in my power to fugged, or in your's to
provide, an adequate remedy. Some reformation,
however, w#uld probably be produced, by aug
menting the penalties again [I all kinds of gambling
—by amending the laws for the relief of insolvent
debtor*—and by reviving the aft for the regulation
©f bankruptcy. It must be remembered, likewise,
that every measure which tends to annihilate a fic
titious credit, and to counterafl a fraud in trade,
will, with equal force, invigorate the real capital of
our commerce, and encourage its fair and salutary
operations. And if, after the eftahlidiment of a sys
tem that will do ample justice to creditors, by pre
venting their debtorj from committing a wr.de or
concealment of pioperty, you (hall I e riifaofej to
abolilh the practice of imprisonment for debt, the
principles of our couditutio-, of tK? common law,
and of found policy l will, in my opinion, warrant
and approve the aA.
At the opetrng of the lad session, it was intima
ted, that tlie footing on which marine insurances,
inland bills of exchange, and promissory notes, ex
ited in Peanfylvania, might be rendered more se
cure and fa isfaiftory to the public, by adopting, in
relation to the refpe&ive objects, fnch of the po
sitive regulations of foreign countries, as experi
ence had proved to be beneficial. Allow me, under 1
the preflura of encreafing inducements, to renew
the recommendation at this time ; and particulaily
to observe, that the preference given hy law to pro
mifTory notes, discounted at the bank of Pennfyl
vinia, (an inditution in which the (late has veiled
its pecuniary capital) has been deemed a singular
departure from the disinterested and liberal policy,
that charafierifvs onr legislative code.
Having thm reviewed the general fitua'ion of the
public affairs, and cursorily pointed-out the princi
pal improvement that may be made in our police,
I proceed, gentlemen, with the highed fatisfa&ion.
to inform you, that the date of our finances will
assure to all your undertakings, for advancing the
interest and happiness of our corfftituenn, an abun
dant and constant supply of_ wealth. Ti-e debta
and duties paid into the treasury, from the fir ft of
January to the firft of November lad, (to which
(everal important payments have finee been added)
amount tothefumof 265,580d011ars and 82 cents;
and this fum,together with the pre-exilling bjlancc
of 90,189 dollars and 52 cents, c»ndi;ute a fund
355'77° dollars and 24 centß, which is much
moie than fufficient to meet all :he.contifiger* i<.j of
the expiring year. For, the dedudtion to he made
during the correfpording period, in order to de
fray the expencesof government, to discharge the
public debts, to advance tl.e public improvements,
(including the fcveral grauts for enlarging the Penn
sylvania liofpital, and finishing the house intended
for the accemmodation of the President) and to
supply the variety of miscellaneous disbursements,
dated in the report for the department of accounts,
amounting only to the sum of 282,444 dollars, will
be found to have left in'the treasury, on the firft of
November lad, a specie balance of, at lead, 73,326
dollars. . ,
The principal fourees of revenue, which ha*c
been edablifhed, preclude, likewise, (as I have da
red) the spprrbmetion of failuve . ur disappoint
ment, in prosecuting on a liberal and judicious scale
the important obje&s of your admtuidration.
From the public capital, veded in the Bank of
Pennsylvania, an ahnual dividend of 90.000 dol
lars mrty be confidently expefied. From the dock
of the United States, which is the propeity ol Penn
sylvania, an annnal sum of about 6,679 dollars is
now enjoyed ; which, when enereafed hy the e
*entful produfl of the deferred Rack, will amount
to an annual sum of about 35,690 dollars, liable,
however, upon the payment of the principal, ac
tording to the dipulated indalmcjai.jf the arts of
Cdngrefs, to be gradually diminifccd, and finally
extinguished at the close of the year 1818. Frcm
the duties k fees colleflcd o« tavern & marriage li
cences, on sales at audlion, and in the public offi
ces, we may compute an annual accumulation of -
50,000 dollars : And the combined result of these
ftveral items, con flit utir.g the ascertained revenues
of the date, fumilhei an income of 146,69 a dol
lzrs.
But it .mud, also, be taken into our view, that
the contingent refourcesarifmg from the arrearages
of tuxes, from the salts of the town and out-I»;s on
.Lake Erie, and on the western frontier (including
the forfeited lots in the town opposite Pittsburgh,
which I direfled to be disposed of,-J "frum the re- I
ceipts of the Land-Office, and from the coIIe&ioH
of various debts, will in the piogrefs of several years
greatly augment the eliding capital of the date. i
Gentlemen of the Mtvfe of Repn/entatives, 1
In this bright, but foitiifol profptiS of our Fi- I
nances, poflVffing all the materials for aiding, in .
your peculiar province, upon the pririplrt of an 1
enlarged and generous policy, you will not, lam |
« confident, be warning in the dlfpofition, or the wif- i
dem to impiave them. For the expences of go- 1
verr.menf, computed at the annual sum of 135,000 '
dollars, for the drcreafing claims of the Pension c
lift, new computed at the sum of to,COO dellara ; »
for the unfunded Rate debt afjertained during the *
reee's, to the amount of fifteen hundred dollao, and a
for the other unavoidable coflfingeticjes, in admi c
ni'dering the public ?ffairs, yon will, doubtless, make '
the ord : nary appropiiations during the prefewt fef- i
ftuo j but allow me again to recommend the reim- t
burfement of the loan, obtained from the bank of f
North America, on a pic 'ge of the duties atiftsg t
f uni f.iles at auftn/ii ; and to press upon y. ur con- n
fideration the expediency of eftabjifhtng a general \-
rule, for employing the furpltis specie, which accu- p
mutates from litre to time, in the treasury ; and u
which, according ro the exiding f) stem, will often, I
for a corfiderable period, and to a great amount,
be us less and unpioduflive. The policy recom
mended in this addrtfs, and your own patriotic re- -
feerclies, will falisf?flori!y indicate the proper ob-1 »
je&s of ftich an arrangement.
Gentlemen cf the Senate, and
Gentlemen of the Hcuje of Reprefentalivet,
In add rion to the papers to which I have alrea- [ 1
dy referred, the Secretary is directed to present, for
your information, copics of the proclamations, re- "
fpeiVnt; the election of eltftors ot a Preiidcntand
Vite Pr iiJent of the United States, aud of the
, cleAion of reprefenhtira, in the cor#» e f,
co[ y o t. e procisedings to supply the vacancy in
, the present eongrefs. occasioned by rhe re(le
- natton of Daniel Heifter-, general datement
; ot the progress that has been made io execur
-1 >ng t.ie contrafta for improving roa J s and ri
' vers ; a copy of a report, f rom which it ap
. P ears , that the new edition of the laws, is rear
- !y reaoy to be delivered : and a fchj.'u'e, fpe
, cj ymjr t which, on account of their re
r ipeer ivc limitations, will cU'm a (hare in n>ordcli
r beration. You will indulge me, while (Tuhjoin,
- to-tJtefe ta ,fcellaoeow matters, a personal roqued,
- that bills, after passing both bradches of the legif.
r latiire, may be so seasonably prcfented for examin
> atton, as to rescue me, in future, from the dilem
• nsa, of either giving the executive fandicin to the
, laws, without due Conrid.-ra.tion, or prat rafting the
: sessions of the general ajcmbly, beyond tl e period
which the conveniency of the members might pre
- lcrihc. 0 1
, A perfect view of the inrereds of Pcnnfylvama,
leading us naturally to contemplate her relative si
■ tnation, a member of the Union, it will not,
1 gentlemen, be deemed ohtrufive or improper, at
• tVis important a;ra, to close my communications
j wuh a reference to the general tranquillity, order,
and profpe.ityof the iider dates. f'Our
had fcarce.y rtcruiieo the (Irength exhanded in her
revolutionary contell, and fcajcely surmounted the
embarrafTmeDts produced by her firft feeble confe
dera ion, when the fndden and irreliftable explo
sion, which dill (hakes the p ilincal atmosphere of
Europ-, nrged to a severe and painfuj ted the pas
sions of her ci'< Bert's, and the energies 'of her go
vernment.—The love of liberty and the fenfc of
obligation created in the A merican mind an honor
able predileflipn for the CEufe of the French peo
ple; but the duties and the intereds of a neutral
charadler imposed upon our government the adop
tion of a fyrtem, !>y which .u.ne of the belligerent
powers might have renfon to complain of ihe"viola
tion iif niir faith, and all would be compelled to
acknowledge rhe rcftitudt of our impartiality. The
fame fkiiful and patriotic hand that had led ns, tii
umphaiiily, through he and conflict of a
seven year's war, wn» again employed, at that ar
duous peuod, ia pointing out the p*'h of judice,
and peace; and the effefls of ihe.atifpicioßs
couife that his been purfned are visible throughout
the land. Notwithstanding the inconveniences and
outrages to which our coiiimcrce has been uuhap
pily 'xpoftd, the citiea and ti w 3 of th«
have flourifhtd lii arts .itid opulence ; the face ot
the country has beer improved and beau
tified ; and all the ilople proJuflsof the American
foil have been cultivated ami m itttred beyond the
med Enticipatidn. The blessing of be
ing prefervrd frr m a participation in the European
war, has been consummated by the cessation ~f In
dian hcdilities on our frontiers; nor will it be elli
matrd as a gratification of ineonfiderable value,
that the exertions of the federal government have,
at length, releeled our unfortunate fellow-citizens
from the Algeri-e enpfivi'y, fedori-ig them to ci
vil freedom, and Jomcftic comfort.
But/at this moment, gentleme'ff, circumdancei
•wfis w!f t h are calculated to cad a (hade upon the
fptendour of the scene that has been defrrihed, ani'.
to iutertupt thecurrent of our enjoyments Yn'ti
will ieadi!y perceive that 1 allude to the Prefident'-
retreat fiom public life—and to the diflatisfafliip
which tlie French republic has exprcfled at the con
duit of our government.
NWith refpefl, however, to the latter of thef:
painful events, we may impii itly expe*3, that' tit
probity, moderation and wisdom, of the federal au
tharity, and the judice and magnanimity of thecx
ecutive direfloiv, will speedily furnifh an effeaual
relief, by restoring the natii>ns to that date of con
sider e, concord and amity, which can alone be con
genial with the popular feelings, and the political
intereds, of both the republics. But in r< linquifh
ing the adtive services of a patriot, who has so me
ritorioirily swayed the fffeftions of hii fellow-citi
zens ; and so fuccefsfully executed the councils of
his country ; we mud, in vain, attempt >0 calculate
the loss, and can derive confutation frorr. this reflec
tian alone—that, while the grateful love sad vene
ration of his ctrmporaries (hall give to his retreat
all the solace that this world can bestow, the rich
inheritance of his example and his fame (hall be the
palladium and pride of our lated posterity !
" Thus deprived in our public trar.fa&ions of the
benefit of those virtues and talents, that might well
inspire univtr sal confidence ; and of those aufpicet, |
which have hitherto given a propitious damp to the
fortunes of America ; the crisis will demand from
every department of government, from every mem
ber of fociery, a zealous and faithful eo speration.'
Let us, then, gentlemen, by laws judiciously
mcd, and pu"dually executed ; by private exam
ple, as well i.a by official vigilance ; discharge [
important trust confided t» us ; discountenancing, 1
at all times, aud by all means, the ungenerous aspe
rity of party spirit; and inculcating the principles
of benevolence and haimony. By the observance
of a policy thus enlightened, you will confirm the
virlue and happiness «f your conflitaents, and raise
a lading monument of your own wisdom and patri
otism You will perpetuate the individual prospe
rity of Pennsylvania, and enlarge the scale of her
influence, in maintaining the rights and dignity of
the union. In a career so glorious, I shall chear
fully, though diffidently, accompany you with all
the powers of my office, and all the faculties of my
mind—enjoying the bed of all rewards, if, at the
\-lofe of a long and.afGduous political life, I shall
prove to my fellow- itizens, that I have not been
undefceving of the generont partiality, with which
I have been uniformly honoured and fu-port«d.
THOMAS MIFFLIN.
Philadelphia, December 9, 1796.
1 1 11 """ 11 ■' =53a»i , ■ m
Philadelphia and Laficafter Turnpike
Road, Company.
A Meeting of the Stockholders for the Ileflion of
a President, Manager!, and other officers, will lit
held at the Company's office on Monday the 9th Jan.
next, at 10 o'clock.
By the Board.
WM, GOVETT, Sce'rr.
December S, J1796. lawtidj.dtg ii
n
Philadelphia,
it
- SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER its, 1.796.
>-
The reful: of the eleflion for President a_nd Vict
President at Harrifburgh, in this Siate, is as follows :
Jejferfon, 14
Adams, I
1 Burr, I j
■ Phlckmy, • 3
FIRE AT NEW-YORK !
Letter from Nenv-Tork* yth December, 1796, to the
Editor.
e This morning at I o'clock, a fire broltt out on
c Murray's wharf, below the Coffee-Houfe, and con
j fumed the whole bloik of buildings from that Slip to
the F'y Ma-'ket, about 50 or 60 in number. The
b :i!ding3 coniifted of large warehnufes filled with
merchandize, and good houfes.—lt was one.of the
' richest blocks in the city. Much property is saved —
mora loft.—The amount is incalculable. The princi
, pd fiifferers are Robert Bowne, John Murray, John
t Taylor, John Marfton, Stewart & Jones, Robinson &
s Hirtfharnt, Loomis 3c Tillinghaft, David G. Hubbard,
David Wagltaff, £cc. &c.
r\ —~
r NEW THEATRE.
MACBETH.
The performance of this Play, last evening, contrary
[ *• expedition, drew a full house. Many of the charafl.
crs ill the play were weakly oast, and the piece was, of
courft, not given with that strength we had been accus
tomed to fee in it. Some amends were, however, made,
r by the fpleiidor of the new dreflcs and decoration*, and
the fine performance of Cooper.
Commenciug his Thcat ic> 1 carrer in America, as he had
j done in England, with the chara&cr of Macbeth, the ul
timate ifluc will probably be very different- If Mr. Coo
per's Macbeth hag been thought, v orthy of cenfuri* in
FngUr.d, we fh*ll, wi-h all del deference to the London
Leviathans i/i Critique, tuke the liberty of forming an opi
, n,on wholly oppoiit*. Whrther this is to be at ributed
. rf> a decency of judgnKnt-in the. wrtfer of- these remarks
or rhe performer's advances in improvem nt in the in
terval, 1 know r.ot: th? general applause of a numerous
i au :it sice, is at once a ftrikinsj reinforcement of the latter
opinion, and forms a decided teftimony , to his merit,
Mr. Cooper had, however, attained the highest refpeifl
ability, previous, to his departure from Fngland.
In America, if Mr. Cooper be thought by some to l ave
been iurpafTed by that excellent performer, Fennell, his
I Macbeth jk opinion, entitles him at least to an equal
rank. TJp * in point of figure he will not bear a com
parison vritti that performer, yet the chaflenel's of his ac
tion and hi c com# gcfticulation, effaced any ideas of a de
ficiency to that refpeifc.
Mr. Corper's voice is clear and sonorous ; and though
he did not perhaps come up to Fennell in energy of tone
3!>d cocntcnance, he certainly pofleffrs in an eminent de
gree, all the flamina of a firft rate a&or.
The principal fpeechcs were given with nice difcrimina
ti?n and accuracy of judgment, above all at his death.
It appears not to have been a favorite cmHoiii with the
Immortal Bard, to put lengthy fpeechefl into the mouths of
his dying heroes. Wherever these occar *hcy are to be
traced to tlie hinds of moderß reformers. Nature and
' »Sh-.kefpeare ! bothfufifer from their labours.
" Time was tha;. whsn the breath was out,
" The rvmi would die.''
To make a man deliver a labored fpcech a quarter of an
t hour in length, after he is 'huYt even to death' is a palpa
ble abfurtiirr.
I| is a pity the Drama in America cannot lhake off the
trammel* on it by European prejudices and faJfe
1 idea*.
However in our recoJVflioß mny be the excellence
of ?,Trs. Whitlock, in L»«.dy Macbeth, we arc ®f opinion
ihat the applause beftowedon Mrs. Morris, in the flceping
scene, was richly merited Her taste and judgment, in
regard to her atrire, demand the palm of pre eminence.
Upon the whole, though we cannot be of opinion that
the characters of this ph.) were, generally, well yet
justice require the tribute of applauieto Mr. Cooper, in
Mr'.cbcth, for the eminent fati*fu£lion afforded by h;s natu
ral performance of that arduous chara&er ; —to Mr. War*
ren ? in Banquo, for his chafteneGi and excellence and
to the Managers, for their liberal and expensive exertions in
brlngmg foi ward the tragedy in so elegant a flyle.
! Mr. Cooper n said to be a young gentleman of only 24:
His talents are uncommon fcr his years; and by having
judiciously marked out the line of nature for hispurfuit, he
bids fair to attain to the highell honors of his profeifion.
w -
Last evening, Mr. Cooper from CoM-nt Garden
Theatre, made his firft appearance in the chamber
of Macbeth. His figure is handsome and bit
countenance expfeflive and interelling—he played
1 wi.h finfc difen'mination and great effect. During
the 2 fitft aftshe fecmed Jefvctive in energy, which,
perhaps was owing to the embarrassment of hi 6 situ
ation ; but his fubfequect scenes could not fail to
' rmprefs the public with a favorable idea of his ta
-1 lentj. There wa» no violent ranting or pompous
; dccjatmtion j hut he copied nature, and nature in
is fme to please : we wish, however, to fee
, Klin in two or three more charafttrs before we form
j yhj decisive judgment on his merits.
"j The farce of the Prize, was played with infinite
| huraytt by Mr. Harwood, Mr. Francis, and Mrs.
Oldmixen—the latter sung her burlesque Italian air
with inimitable drollery.
We could wi(h the managers would obviate the
tedious delay that takes plat* between the aits ; it
is irksome to the and contributes in a
great msalure to, detaiß them to very unseasonable
hotfr*. DR AM ATICUS. v,
WALPOLK, (N. Hamp.l Not. 2Q.
CONGRESS
Are t» assemble at Philadelftliia on Monday next.
We anticipate a fdfion less turbulent aud divided
than the latt. By this term, the political effervef.
occaConed by the treaty,.is abated ; and iren
naturally txpeft, that even the southern members
will be " f»ber minded." Notwitliftanding the
vulgar plea of the youth of our couatry, it is now
fttfTicidiitly mature to sorter the arts. It is hieh
time for Amerieani to think less of foreign rela
tions, and more of her internal polity and improve.'
mcnt. The ufeful and the fine arts, have a claim
upon the attention of Congress } a claim, which is
paramount ta both the French and the Bririfh in
tcrelt. It is \ matter of the highest moment, that
works of public utiliry, and natiokal and dome/-
tic cescerns, fliould employ the statesman's care.
Genins, invejitiun, merit, are much more
confcquential than citiaen Ai'et ; and better is it to
cherifu o*e deserving American, than to pronounce
a fcofe of speeches, m ptaife of French magnani
mity.
■ <
NEW-Y(sßK,"tJ«cember 8.
1 l' e highest compliment perhaps ever p-ild to
lie virtue has been exhibited by the legislatures of
several States, in ordering the late address of the Pre
sident t« the people of the United States to be entered
on their Journals or published with their Laws.
( omoared with this testimony of approbation, ex
prefled by an aJTti\ionate and grateful people, the
triumphs of a Roman general leading kings in chain*,
and of a French conqneror, bearing Randan's, pic
tures and (latnes from the vanquilbed, into the hall of
the Convention, dwindle into infigrificant puerilities.
More plcnfure thus the Grvuivt PATRIOT f tU,
" Than Cefar 'with a Senate at bis bech."
RICHMOND, Dee. i.
In Council, Dec. I ft, 1796,
Virginia, to wit :
The following are the names of the perfor« who
have been returned Electors to vote for a President
and Vice-Prefxient of the United Sta'et, vi*.
William Nlmmrv, Nathaniel Wilkinfijn, John
Taylor, Wilfnn Cary Nicholas, William M.ciifnn, '
Benjamin Temple, Riddirk, John Mason,
Robert Walker, George Markham, Peter Johnson,
Nathaniel Terry, David Saunrffcrs, Catefcy Jones,
Daniel Carrol Brent, Levin Powell, Moses Hun
ter, Archibald Stuart, John Bowyer, John Brown
and Robert Crocket, inquires.
Advertised by order of the executive, pursuant
to an aft of the peneral aflembly, entitled, " Ai «.
ad for appointing EleAors to choose a Prefideut
and Viee President of the United States."
_______ A BLAIR, C. C.
Davis's Law Book.Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to bts proteflionsl friend*,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his larc importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and r.-ady for Sale, from a Ongle volume ta ao entire li
brary, without any advance Lpon his former exceeding low
prices, which forfsveral years past have in so diftinguiihed a
mannet recommended them to notice.
p.inted Cnilngucs combining the most extensive collec.
tion cf the latefl Englilh and Irish Editions ever imported
into this country, are published, and will be delivered gratia
on apolication.
o>ders addrefltrd to G. D. in writing from any distance
(hall be punctually attended to.
A number of ! RUN'KS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Maiket Street Wharf.
v . tufrfjur
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
A'e. 99, North Second Street.
Im ial, r Hyson 9kin.
Hyson, > Frefo Teas. < Souchong.
Young Kyfi n, j (.Bohea.
cc - 9- jtawjm.
FOR SALE,
A valuable Plantation,
IN Frederick Cousty, Virginia, bounding nearly hre«
miles on the river Shenandoah, between A(hby's t Gap
and Snickcr's Ferry ; 66 miles from Alexandria, and the
jlike dillar.re from the Federal City. It contains 107 4
acres, 600 of which are cleared, the refldue finely tim
bered ; the whole Limellone or River Bottom ; abounding
in fine dreams and springs; above 80 acres on the hin'c
of the river may be watered at pleasure. It is capable
of being divided into Lots ol ioe> acres, with water id
»ach, which rend.rs it peculiarly convenient for grazing
or culture. Its fituaiibn for Health or elegant improve
ment is not to b$ surpassed in any inland country, and t
deemed-too large for one Farm, may be divided into two
or three Imaller ones, uniting in common advantages.— 1
There is now erected on the Eltate a good Merchant-
Mill, with two pair of ftanes (on a large limehoue fprin'-)
that rents for 4<>6 dollars per ar.n. and en another nevt r
failing-ipring a good Saw Mill, with a flutter wheel ;
there is plenty 01 pine timber in the neighboring moun
tain, and a llream I'ufß. icnt for another Mill with fm r
pair of Hones—these are adjacent ta or immediately «ti
the banks of the river, the navigation whereof is about
being opened into the Potomak and for more than ico
miles above the mills. The other improvements on the
Estate are a new commodious Barn, the loft of which i*
capable of containing 1530 hufhel ; the tSrcfhrng-floor is
4* feet square, well planked : another (double) LOS
Barn, with flieds all around : a Difksllery, with three
large Stills, and a Or. nary above that will contain 50®
bulhels, well covered with shingles, and a ftreara of wa
ter, conduced by troughs, running thro" it; at a small
distance is a large Cow-Houf« and Stabe, with flails for
22 cows, paved with stone in the European manner, witla
room for above 40 waggon loads of hay: a little further
is a strong ftone-walkd Spring-Honfe, completely fitted
for a Dairy. The whale of these Mills and Buildings
are at a proper distance from each other, and from the
Dwelling, which consists ef three commodious Frstm-
Buildings, with the neceflary conveniencies. A well en
elofed Garden of the fineft foil, with a dream of water
running thro* it ; two Urge Apple Orchards; several
good Quarries for building and limeftor.ej a number of
Out-Houfes fer Managers, Blackfuith, Cooper, and lodg.
ings for Men of Colour; —add greatly to the convenien
cies and value of this Estate.
The Purchaser, on paying one half the price agree 4
for, may be accommodated with a considerable credit for
the remainder, and with the Cattle, Horfes,'-Waggon 5,
Farming Utensils, and Furniture, at a reasonable* valua
tion. For other particulars, application may*bs made t®
the fubferiber or. ths Estate, to Thomas Fitrfimoni id
Philadelphia, or Matthias Slough, Lancaftcr.
J. Holder.
Spriaglbury, igth OAober, 1796. —Sift iaw6
it U K HAL K,
A very Valuable Eltate,
CALLED TIVITTENHAM, situate in the
township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 s-a miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
new Weflernroadi containing zjo acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow,-90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of ths firft quality. There are
08-the premises a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-wc)l
of excellent water in front; a large frame bam, flabl.s
and other convenient buildings; a fmifce-hovfe and ltone
f P r 'ng-houfe ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. TV fields are all in clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the hk!»
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and tn« '
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harrr.an,
deceased, and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Ofl' 31. Taw .Surviving Executor
Washington Lottery.
The 44th and 45th days' drawing of the Walhingtorj
Lottery, No. s, are received at the office No. 134, Mar
ket-ftrcet, where tickets may be examined.
- N. B. Information givec where rickets in *11 the ether
latteries may be procured.RAN AW AT,
About the ift of O&ober last, from the plantation ot
Mr. Thomas F. Brooke, (in Prince rfeorge's county) to A
whom he was hired, a NEGRO MAN, named C omr
33 yean of ape; about 5 feet Bor 9 inches high; well q U j rc
made; of a yellowilh complexion; a little pockmarkcd: 1
v has, when spoken to, rather a down look, and fabmiflive
tone of voice: the cloches he had before he abfeonded
were of plain, fach as labouring Ncsroes usually wear,
but these he may probably exchange for others : he will
doubtless endeavour to for a freeman, having, as I j—mr
have been informed, aflumedthe name of Bntler : I have
reason to believe that he went to Baltimore, from whcnce
hc is said to have gone to some part of the Sufquehannah, o clc
probably with a view of getting to Pennsylvania. A ftrcc
reward of Thirty Dollars will be given to the pcrfon who Foil
may take him and so secure him in some jail that I may £
get him again, if taken in this slate, and Fifty dollars if
taken out of the ft ate, and if brought home or fccured in
the jail of Prince George 1 # county all reasonable charges CT
will be paidT>y ALEXR. COVINGTON. exh
Maryland, Prince Gecrge*s County, "> at -
Md November, 1796. j nth*t&f4 w ]JgJ
SWANN'S; J
jßiding School, &orfe Academy & Infirmary,
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his fjneere thanks to tbofe gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his residence in this City, and j
flattershimfclf that the fucccfs of his efforts, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horles, in which he has 01
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fc- Cre
cure their future favors and recommendation. Bra
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large of *
that his spacious and commodious premises, erected for the ran
purposes above de-scribed are open for the reception of pupils Wa
of either fcx, who wish to beinftru&ed in the Art of Riding, Eea
and the right method of governing their horses, so as to ride Kn;
them with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be bra
v carefully and expeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and j
wade obedient to the will of the-riders ; the natural powers .
which are shut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that Tioble animal
all tbofe beauties of action which providence has so bounti- J
v fully bestowed on them.
Alfo,at his hospital, every disorder to which the horse is J
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by leng and repeated experience.
The utility of the above institution has never been qneftion- tt/-
cd, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's '
stud willmanifeft, and T, Swann as the fir ft eftablifher of
the veterenary art, felicits and relies upon the support of that
public (which he wever anxious in fating) to enable him to ■ *
Dringit to perfection. The idea of a fubfeription for (hat
purpose has beeu hinted gentleman, who wish. to c
promote the institution—the amount of each fubfeription to air
t>e returned by services in any of the departments he profefTcs, or
agreeable to the rate of charges Hated in his hand bill. Such Nc
fabfeription is now open, and the figna:ures of manyrefpefl
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore his
friends and furh Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he (hall in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and folieking their support
and prote&ion. Q
N B. Horses »re properly prepared for those Ladies and
gentlemen who wish to be inftru6ted» PR
Nev. 5. Vn
'' j 1
Lottery and Broker's Office 1 , tal
No. 64, Smth Second street.
WI
TCKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 1, for sale—a dif
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in m<
the late lottery. 1
Cheek Book» kept for examination and re;i(tering, for mi
tlie City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public g|
*nd his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
■ Also Tickcts in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
{ale at Ten Dollars each, which will be drawn early in gg
the Spring.
Wnt. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Avgvfl *8, 1 mt^
" Treasury of the United States.
* 7 OTICE is hereby given to all persons who are oi*
X\ may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
• f tti Fsnded Debt, or Stock, baring a profent interej! of fix
ter ecntvm per annum. I
i ft, That pursuant to an A A qf Congref* patted on the
»Bth day of April, I796,intitledan aft in addition to a*
act, intituled " An aft making further provision for the
support of public credit, and lor the redemption of the
public debt," the said debt or stock will be reimburfedand
paid in manner following, to wit. " Firll, by dividends
« to be made on the last days of March, June and Septcm- -
" her for the present year, and from the year one thousand
«« seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou
«' sand eighthundred & eighteen inclufive,at. the rate of
•« one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
«« Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lad day of
" December for the present year, and from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year x
" one thousand eighthundred and fcventcen inclusive, at ti
" the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma con the last 0
" da/of December, in the year one thousand eight hun- a:
« dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
" quate, according to the for the final redemp- v
" tion of th -faiddlock." 'I
ad. All diftin&ion between payments on account of f,
Jhltrrfi and Principal being thus abolished by the eftablilhj ;i
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abova de- 8
cribed, it has become neceflary to vary accordingly the t
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; tic) public t
tredrtors will therefore observe that the following form j
seftablifhedfor all powers of attorney which may be t
granted after the due promulgation of this notice, viz. ,
KNOIV ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that \
i 1 "/
do mahc, conjiitutcand appoint i
my true and laivful At- :
to r niy,for mc, and in my name, to receive the .SviJenJi which are, l
er tball be payable according to la-w, on the (her* describing the i
stock) flan <i»f in my name in the books of (here defcribmgvthe I
books of the Treasury or the Committor,cr of Loans, i
where the stock is credited) from (here inf. rt the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to contim(e) laiih pott er also an .iltorncy or attor
nin under him, for that purptfe to make andfuhfitute, and to do alt <
fatvjul a&l reliefer cffcHin* the premises, hereby ratifying and 1
confirming all that my said Attorney or hisfuipjuUjoatl lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof.
In WHnefs hereof, I have hereunto set my hand and Seal thi
day of *bc tear
Sealed and Delivered
in presence of,
BE IT KNOWN,that on tie day of
if re meperfnally came
within named and acknowledged the above leti-r vf attorney to he
hit art and d*ed.
In teftirrony whereof I basic hereunto fit my llaniand afjix
fj Seal the day end year last afor.jaid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to diredions
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Ireafurer of the United States,
fmijl3. tlj
' •-'/ /- . -1 r''
'wanted,
As Cook, in a private
A YOKING WOMAN who can produce good tc- 11
comipenditions of an unexceptionable charafler. En- ,rjal
of ! hc p,lmef - j t f Unit'
November 17. ■'
The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM SALT/MORE. Ps
THE public are relpertfully informed, that * —
this animal is to be ieen every day, from 3
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Market- j
street, No. l®6, south fide, between Third and
1 Fourth-flreets. . by tl
Admittance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci- —-bi
| tizen may fee him. "V'
, 03* At the request of many perfanß- it will be nan
exhibited 011 evenings from five to cijjht o'cidck, ]
at half a dollar each.—The room will be well [hof
lighted.
November 7. '
Tames Mufgrave,
GOLDSMITH & JEJVELLERt
No. 42, south Second-flreet, »
A TTAS just received an afTortmcnt of Plated Ware thci
f Jtl and Jewellery, Plated Tea and Coffee Urns, Caffee Con
Pots, Tea ditto, Castors from $to 8 bottles, Sugar and pur
- Cream Basons, Bottle Stands, Balkets, high Candidaes,
Brackcts and Chamber ditto, Branches, Sconces, a.variety
re of Silver and Plated Shoe La chets, Spurs, ar
« ranted of the best plate; Ladies and Gentlemen* Gold w „
Is Watch Chains, Seals and Keys; Necklaces, Neck Chains, d
Eear Rirgs, Finger Rings, Lockets, Breast Pins, Stone
Knle-Buckles, with many other articles in the aooyc
'J branchesi . f
d He has likcwlfe received an cxtenfn e ahortmeit of I
rs iapann'a tea and coffee Urns, perfun, blue, brown, on I
S i black and gold. . . J,™
i. All kinds of work inths gold and silver line; miilia- the
tures set, and hair work executed a» usual.
is November 9. tu i h _ & JL I
Any Person
Who is well acquainted -with the River f
rf M I S S I S 1 P P I, hr c
il And will give Direitions for failing into the fawre, —
° t that can be depended on, shall be ger.e-roufly rewai c.-
0 cd for his information, provided he will leave the
to directions with Mr. John Fenno, printer, Philadelphia, T>
:s, or Edmund M. Blunt, Newburyport. 1V
:h November lawsm , 1 A
1- ——— — city
z Brokers Office, a&d J
« COMMISSION STORE.
,rt No. 63 South Third street, eppofite the national new Bank. | n fe;
SAMUEL M FRAUNCtS and JOHN VAN REED, an d
have entered into co-partnership, under rhe firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the bufmefs of Broker-', 0 f
Conveyancers and CommiiTion merchants. I hey buy aiu* wil
fell on commission every lpecies of stock, notes of hand, (
hills of exchange, hoftfe« and lands, Se.c. the
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c r ;t
writings in the conveyancing line, done with n«atnefs and
-a iifpatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the p rc
in mod correct manner. Conilant attendance will be given, ]
They solicit a share of the public favor j they ire deter- acc
or mined to endeavour to deserve it. hoi
cs, N. B. The utmoll observed. Reg
■ re SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, at •
vn JOHN VAN REED.
w- Philad. August 17, 179 m&wtf the
01 City ot" Washington.
•t c SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
' FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 s THE h; *
FEDERAL CITY. f«
r A magnificent \ 20,000 dollars, & ) ir ?
m HSwelHng-houfe, j ca" 1 30,000, are 5 '
I ditto 15,000 & caOi 15,000 40,000
x ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000 a 1
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,0w0 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000 <c j
2 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000 a J
J'* to do. 1,000 - - 10,000
t [, e to do. 500 - - 10,000 ? '
aB 00 do. 100 « - 10,000
the 200 do - 5° " " IC '° oo a£
t l, e 400 do. 15 * , ■ 10,000
i„d 1,000 do. 10 - 20,000
nds 15,000 do. 10 • 150,000
:;it- _ , —
md 16,7J9 Prizes.
otl " Rlanks.
of — A
tal. 50,000 TickeU, at Eight Dollars, 400,000 1
of UJ
one N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of fu
r e>r Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the drawn so
• at ticket, and the jo.ooothe last but one : Ji
ori- And approved notes, securing payment in either money d:
last or priies, in ten days after drawing, will be received sol as
iun- any number not less than 30 tickets. P
ide- This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri- R
iwp- vate buildings to be ere&«d in the City of Washington— lii
Two beautiful design* are already fqjeited for the fntife at
t of fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawing* P
it ispropofed to erect two centre and four c#rncr buildings, I
de- as soon as possible alter this lottery is fold, arid to convey L
the them, when complete, to the fortunate adversnrsrs, in S
ijplic the manner deferibed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery. t<
orm A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will be made to defray S
' be the necessary expenses of printing, the Airplus
n - will be made a part of the fund intended for the National n
that University, to be trecled within the city of Waftiington. 11
The Drawing will commence as soon as tht tickets are p
old off.—The money prizes will be payable ia thirty days b
At- after it is finished; and any prize» for which fortunate
'1 are, numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the i.
gthe drawing is closed, are to be confid«rcdas given towards
rvthc thefun«t for the University ; it being determined to fettle
Tan s, the whole business in a year from the eViing of the draw- :
torn- ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
er of The real fecuritrts given for the payment ot the Prizes,
ittnr- are held by the Pfefident and two Dire&ors of the Bank
do alt of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
s and mount ot the lattery.
tvful- The twenty four gentlemen -who by appointment of
the late Commiffloners affiled in the management of the 1
althi Hotel Lottery are reque.-ced to undertake this arduous task i
a second time on brfialf ef the public ; a fufficient num 1
her of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a NationalUniverfity and the other federal ob
jeils may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
■ to be Continent as Well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are assured that the
affix- drawing will speedily commeme, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
:wen- the tickets, has rendered the fhor: suspension indispensable.
aions SAMUEL BLODGET.
,§, Tickets may be had at the Be.nk of Colombia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Boston :
tes. of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells'
if Cooper's Ferry. eo
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
Tho Stockholders are hereby rotified, .that the an
trjal £Ua,on for Officers for the enluing ye?r,j wul
hi held at the Company's office, near the Barm: o. the
United States, on the firft Monday in January nex ,
it lo o'c'o?*, A. M.
t By the Board of Managers. ,
IV.M. MOORJi SMITH, rv>
PhiS'leloWln Dec. !, foebtlD
— 1 " fc
A Short Delay s<
In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery,
In Washington city, has been unavoidably occasioned
by the uAfortYecn intervention of Mr. Blodget 9 Lotte y
ibut as the major pan of the tickets are now d.fpofed
of, this is ;o inform the public that the drawing-os the Ca- ,
nal Lottery will certainly commence without bd on th^
firft Monday in January *797, and those holding tickets, |
nje h rebv requested to fend a flatement of those fold, and »,
those on hand. ''
NOfLY YOUNG,
D ANIEL C ARROI.I., of Duddington,
GEORGE WALKiR,
THOMAS LAW,
TAMES BARRY, 3'^
W. M. DUNCANSON.
rh» Printers who gave our advcrtifcmcr.ts a place in
their newspapers, are reverted to give this notice adnnt
fion, as the rcmainingtickets aie expected to be [aobi above
par, and we wiih adventurers to be timely informed /
. ' Nov. «». fini
ticl
DANCING SCHOOL. d„
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open his school on Man- ot »
' day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his ■
Elegant heiv Ball Rooms, J'i
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets. J"
F Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock
, on Mondays. Wcdnefday, and Friday mornings; and for *
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
. the ftmedays.'
In addition to a number of new cotillions he means to ">g
introduce a variety of Scotch R.cels
Mot-. The firft praftifiwg ball to be on Tuesday e- ten
veiling, the firft of November, and to be continued <
Tuesday, during the feal'oll.
For terms, &c, enquire at his lioufe, No.l34,Market
ftreet. TT
QSt. 17. nhf j
cen
j Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this- day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
' city of Philadelphia. i
The iubfeription Room will be furmlhed With all the 5
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bof
t«i, Baltimore, together with those of the principal coir.-
:• I nfercial citi«s of Europe—They will be regularly filed
', and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
>f Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, !ce Creams, and a variety a 3.
=, of French Liquors; together with the usual refreflimcnts, 4°
4 will at all times be procured at the bar. —
1, Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with o;,.
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the raoft
J approved Malt Liqnor't from London and other breweries, mp
d The Larder will be supplied with the prime and earliest erf
.e productions of the Season. ''
1. Large and fm4ll Farties, or single Gentlemen, may be to
r- accommodated with Brcakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at in
hours most convenient to thcmfelves—a cold Collation is nt
regularly kept for couveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at the- bar. COl
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifced, and mi
the utmofl attention paid to cleanliliefs, and every other fen
requite. " J " ~~ ~ ets
0" SiMUEt Richardet will be happy to receive, and
[ execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
' large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himlelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly ;'ionprcd.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
i Twenty Guineas Reward.
RANAWAY from the fubferiber on the 13d O&ober,
Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 11 years
Id; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green
oat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
•hole boots much worn. It is probsfble he may change
is name and dress. He has been accustomed to driving
carriage, and waiting. The above reward will !»e
aid farjecuring him so that the fubferiber may get him di
gain, and if brought home all reasonable chargjs paid '>y ly
Robins Cbamberlaine. ■ "j
Eaflon, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 §imiawtf
Treaiury Department, 1,1
September 28, 1796. f (
\ TOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re-
L't eeived at the office of the Secretary of the Treafiiry
mtil the expiration of the firft day of March next rn
uing, for the supply of all rations which may he required
or the use of the United States, from the firft day of
une, 1797, to the thirty-firll day of May, 1798, both
(ays inclusive, at the places and within the diftri&s lwre
iftcr mentioned, vi*. jAt Ofwego; at Niagara ; at t ,
Prefque lfte; at Sandulky I.ake, and on Shmduiky a
iivcr ; at Detroit; at. Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank- t(
in ; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hami'.'on ;
it Fort St. Clair; at Fort-J«fferfon ;at Grenville: at
Pkque I'own and Loramics Store; atFortAdamr; «t
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
Steuben ; at FortMaffae ; at any place from Fort Mafiac
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
MifTitippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If fufiplies (hail be required lor any polls or places not
mentioned in thisnoticc, ail such supplies fliall be fur
iuflied at prices proportioned to thole to be paid at the
polls before recitod, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contractor.
Tlie rations to be i'upplicd are to conftft cf the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounc»s of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon. (
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiikey. ,
One quart and half a pint of fait.")
Two quarts ef Vinegar, ( , . ,
,n- ' , r c > per hundred rations •
Two pounds of Soap, f r
One pound of Candles. J
The rations are to be furnilkod in such quantities, as that
there-fiaall at all times during the laid term, be fufficfent
*«ii | for the confumptionof the troops *t Michilimackinac, Dc
um , troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the terra of fix months in
the 1 advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
1 ob- j at lealt three months in advance, in good and wholefnme
j provisions, if the fame stall be required. It is to be un
the 1 derftood, that the Centrador is to be at the exvem.e and
:kets i ritk of ilTuirgthe fupplias to the troops at each poll, and
th« I thac all losses sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
; and j by means of the troops of the United States, Cnall be paid
il of I for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
ablft. j the dvpofitioßs of two or more persons of crcditable cha-
I rafisrs, and the ccrtificatc of r. commi(Honed officcr, af
-1 ; of 1 certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the amount
(lon ; of the abides for which compsnfation fliall be claimed
Wis* OLIVER WOLCOTT,
S«er»tary of the Treasury.
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. £ 4 ,
South Second-jlreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
for raising Sixty Thousand DoMars, j oa n ci
the Leg'fhture of Pcnifylvaaia, parted during the la >
fcflion, for building a Stone Bridge over ihe Ri v ,.,'
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the Co. ln t v of
® cr^s * Dnliar
1 Prize of 20.000 Dollars - 2 r ' rS
1 do. of 10,000 do. - - .
1 c 1 ,0 -.000
3 do. of 5,000 do. - . V .J*
4. do. Of 2*300 do. . .
so do. of 1,030 do. - . - 16 oto
do. of' 500 do. - . , Q
80 do. of 200 do. - - _ lb,oca
200 do. of ioo do. - 2C,000
3°o Ao. of s ° d °- - - 15,033
1 do. of 500 do to be paid the poll I-)
for »f the firlt drawn no. J sct>5 ct>
5 do. of 3,000 ,do. to lie pa'd portertors!
of the five lad drawn nos 5 'S'" 00 |
9,400 do. of 15 do. : - 141,000
16,054 Prijn 300,000
•j0,046 Blanks
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,00 i
All Prizes (ball be paid fifteen days atier the drawing 13
finifhed, upon tly: demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as foonas the Tickets are difp.lcd
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given,
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjlncr, William JVitman,
Jofepb Hiejler, Diemer, Thoma: Dundas,
jfamtr May, Jvhn Otto, John Keim, Daniel Grnrjf,
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Heading, May the gth, 1796.
, Tickets iu the Canal Lottery, No. 2, to be hid at the
above ofTae, where the earlitft information of the draw
, ing of the Walhington No. s, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and check books for examination and regjf
teriiig are kept, t
Odober 7. lawtf
Paterion Lottery. . g
TTOR railing fix tftoufind fix KuhdrsT3?nl - luCty-TevJ'S
1 dollars and fifty cenw, by a deduction of fifteen jvr
cent from tlVc prizes, and not two blanks to a pme. v:i
I Prize of joco dollars is dollars 50 3
1 X 1000 loon
t ' JOO sco
. 5 103 loco
10 10 O 2 TO
c 99 50 A9S"
100 S*v is 5 00a
. 100 b 10 10, ops
1 5 Last drawn numbers of i-oo© dollars cach,
, 1331 Prizes. 44,4j»
3 4018 Blanks.
a 6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44>1J®
I By order of the Directors of the Soeiety for eftablifn
. ing Ufeful Matti|fti&ures, the of the pat
\ erfon Lottery hive requested the Managers to offer the T
foregoing Saheme to the pubHe, and have dire&ed them
c to refund the money to th«fc persons who have purchased
t in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
5 n this Lottery.
i The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prifts
d may he seen at thr office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
r Couth Second street, who will giveinformatipri where tick*
=a .f**. ,rr a uf 1 ' —g 4 "
d Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
lt J. N< GUMMING, 7
s JACOfi R. HARDENBERG, > Managed
JONATHAN RHEAy )
" STATE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Prize of 5000 ... SCOW
I 1000 ... Iboo
I 500 - y
5 aoo - 1 8 -o i
r > 2Q 100 » - looaj?
" 90 ... 4J co
ICS IS - " * .
J The five last drawn tickets, iooc ecch, s oe ®
Bfcing all ti»€ valuable prizes, besides a full propor-
L tion of the 10 dollars.
, e As the Lottery is considerably than one third
m drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
jy ly increased, and it is worth the notice cf those
who hold tickets in -the old scheme, that they can ex
change their tickets for those in the above, if they cp
ly soon, and at a moderate advance cordering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be oftener, and the Lottery soon finifhed.
e " November 12. mvt ' i
l \V afhington Cans 1 Lottery,
Of N°. I.
th TTTHEREAS the State of Maryland has suthoriM
e " W the underwritten, to laife twenty-lix thou and,
at two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpole of tutting
<y a Canal through the City of Wafliington, from th ro
k- tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
1 ; The following is tlw SCHEME of No.!.
at Vi z ~j prize of 10,000 dollars, 10,000
<t 1 ditto 10,000 »0,000
,rt 7la il drawn > _ 3.f,C0«5
Tickets,cach J J '
sac 6 ditto I.oco 6,000
'er IO ditto 400 4'°°°
10 ditto 100 a,ooo
tot ss ditto jo ».75°
Jr " J7jo ditto 12 69,008
the To he raised for tke Canal, 16,150
5850 Prizes, _
cl " 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, atTcn Dollars, - 17S> CB0
The Commiflioners have taken the Securities re _
paired by the aforefaid tit lor the pundual payment ol :
the prizes. . . .
The drawing of this Lottery will commence,'.vithoii
f,ns delay, as soon as thf Tickets are fold, of whuh One 1
notice will be given. .
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after tt
~at drawing is finifhed, shall be confidercd as rolinouiflicu for
, fnt the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
Vc ' (Signed J MOTLEY YOUNG,
em DANIEL CARROLL,ofT>.
1 °f LEWIS DEBLOIS,
,me GEORGE WALKER. ,
un " Wm. m.duncanson.
an ' l THOMAS LAW,
r an JAMES BARRY.
paid City of Feb. 11.
' on
cha- — ~~
, as- pw iNTED BY JOHN FE N Nt),
—No. 119—
CHFSNUT-tTHEET.
y. [Prico Fight Dollar* per j