#a?ette MtlitetJ States, 6- Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
, rVolume X.
Nrnmn 1 - SATURDAT EVENING, AUGUST so, < 79 6.__ —
SSUMBEX 1232.J - r —. fl-cvan.V TlnwSOW.
The brig MarY W
MSi FOtf SALE,
AND may be seen at Abiah and William I—l
rr» Brown's wharf. She is about 800 barrels
burthen, ltrong built, and well but-bolted, has clegaat
accommodations, is a good sailer, only 10 months old,
and may be feat to fta immediately. Apply to
James Brown, Supe ,
No. 119 South Second-ftrtet. Do
Who has for sale, a few puncheons high proof Some
Jamaica Spirits. £fg
AND A FEW BARRELS SHAD. Engl
Aug- *3 ■ »** lo
For Boston, Umt
The brig Neptune, gg
■»» James Tower, Mailer, -7
WILL fall on Sunday next. For freight or passage apply
t0 EDWARD STOW, Jiui. A 1
AOS. 16 § No. 76 South Front-street. XX I
' — Melifrs
UNITED STATES, J §£u
Pennsylvania District, 3 ' f>
IN pursuance of a Writ to me directed from the Honour
able Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the Diflrifl Apr:
Court of the United States for the Pennsylvania Diftrid, ;
Will be expofej to Public Sale,
At the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe, in the City of Philadel-
phja, on Monday, the 19th day of August, instant, at 14 in pip
o'clock at noon, '
The SLOOP called the (
J||ijßgp Rebecca, • i
,3l9B.H£i2Cw«. With all and Angular her tackle, appa- '
rel and Furniture, as the fame now are ; the said sloop J
having been condemned, to pay Mariners' wages, &c.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Mw&aL i
MajfHal's Office, tyth AugTift, 179 ft. ___
For Sale or Charter, ?»'
4000 Bbls. of flour—fhe may be sent TX 1
to sea at a small expenee, her fails and rigging being in
very good order—apply to ' ,
James Campbell, or for c
Gearge Latimer. The
April 49, § i 6
This Day commenced Landing,
At ]\ ifflijis wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop
St. Jago, from St. JagodeCuba—confiiiing.of
, White and Brown Box SUGAR. A;
MOLASSES, of an excellent quality.
COFFEE.
HIDES and HONEY. Also, A
For Sale or Charter.
A ft out, strong vessel, will esrry a
jljL bout 1200 barrels, and may go to for £
n fia with 0 very small expense. l?et j l
will he 10Id for caih-»t approved aorta. c , re^
Samuel Emery, <f«>p
NO. 64, south Second-street. give
July 4 7 , 1796- dt /l LI
For Sale, M o
Or for Charter to the We/l <• Vies, this
THE SHIP tl0t!
C E R li S,
Philadelphia Built,
and Red Cedar, burthen about 3500 ba-
(J rels, now discharging atLat.mer swharf. fan
fcl is in excellent repair, well fouud and will,bear a tho- }
rough examination, and as soon as discharged will be tea- _
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to
John Vaughan. ,-
lulv 48 '
- pU
At South-street wharf,
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th in ft. August,
by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and sloop bafly, T
from Port-au-Prince,
300 Hhds. COFFEE, ce
70 Hhds. SUGAR.
Also, Tie cargo cf the Sivedijh brig Gujlaf Adolphe,
copt. liamfre, from Gibraltar,
ifl and 4th proof Bramlv, in pipes and hhds.
Hazle Nuts in sacks
St. Übes SALT, fer faleby ,
PETER BLIGHT.
>—a For Charter,
" Thefaidbrig 4
I Gustaf Adolphe, *
t' Swede, with J Medittrranean pass,
3-. ver y fi ne veflel, about 400 tons bur
,he». Aug- -8- _$4weo4w_ .
To be fold, ;
On Twelve Months Credit, ;
If applied for immediately, i
One Hundred Thouland Dollars, (
And one hundred and eighty thouftnd acres of good ]
LAND, I
In the state of V irginia. Apply to the Printer.
*ig- 19 - 1 ■*
FOR SALE,
A Cemplete Font of Brevier,
ENtirely new, and yet unopened The weight of th.»
font is about 3" <1 l°l uY °
Wilson & So,".s, Glasgow, and will be fold M cost & charges.
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
Enquire at the Oflicc of the Gazette ol the United
States, 119 Chefnut-ftrret. Aug. 19 §4W_
w C A BL E s,
Froni.i6-ta9 \ inches, for fale-by
Jeremiah Warder,
j u!y tJ § No 14 north Third-street.
A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's placc is wasted by a person properly quali
fied, and'whofe charader will be found unexception
j' able. Apply to the Printer.
Aug. U
Wm. HOLDERNKSSE,
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latett arrivals from Europe and 500 c J
the East Indies, a well fde&cd assortment of Silk ' 10 0 1
Mercsry.Linen Drapery, and Habsrdafbery Goods; whicn All A 1
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on theltfweft terms ;
amongst which are, On boari
Some fine India mullins emoroidered with gold aod (Hver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, imdMulniiil ditto
j) 0 do do do HaiidkeriliK-fs
Somee*tr* : blai'>4 Aj'
Bandano Han'dkerchicts "~™
Long and short Nankctm |
Engliih Mantuasof the firft quality j t
Damask table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant aflortmait V]
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth a„
French cambrics, very fine .
Irish Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 $
y For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second streets, in which
- Messrs. James Calbraith «c Co. have for many years (and J Su(
now do) carried on bufihefs. Q f May
PolTefiion will be given in one month, or sooner. ancc of |
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, cole. —
r- HECTOR CALBRAITH. ; llcarrl .
ft April 41. §_ kept by
FOR SALE, gSS
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, FOl anc
E4 in pipes and hogsheads
Claret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, in hogsheads
, a _ ' Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
op Ear Lead, Red and white dry lead ,
SteeU German and Riiffia, in barrels
_ bunting, tarpolin caiivii,
Tin Dlates —An invoice Stationary, by
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
July iq i-
ELEPHANT.
This Animal is to be seen in High-Street, let-ween
the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street.
TTE will pofitivcly leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep- f or an(
2 " n rl tember, for Baltimore, in his way to Charleston,
where he will winter.
ADMITTANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar The
for Children. R"}™'
The PANORAMA, or the VIEW of the CITIES of ofSepl
LONDON and WESTMINSTER, Carna,
Is to be opea till the 10th of September, and the sub- ol Phil
ie<St will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE- oum '
PHANT. rt ,
sop ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA,
One quarter of a Dollar.
Aufuft 3. TO
— fold by public sale,
ON Wednesday, the 7th day of September next, on | e r sqll
the premises in Mount-Holly,Burlington county, by liceno
the Sl'bfcl'iber, quars
The Dwelling- House and Lot a r^ e t
'a' Whereon it flands, having been in part occupied as a store
oto r (everal years past, and in a good ftandior bufinCfs,to
fliop goods and houlehold furniture. A clear title wil, tie i>
given to the purchafur on payment of the money or lu -
:f. ficient bondtherefor, and polTeffion of the premises will
be given in the said month of September. P
The iale is to continue 'till the whole is dnpov-d 01. X
Mount Holly having become rhe County Town, makes [{ e g
this property mere v.iiUable than heretofore. The condi- wo l c
tions will be made known at the time and place of Tale, by j
PETER SHIRAS. _ d;
N. B. All persons indebted to the fubfctiber,are request- '
ed to difchargethe fame immediately, as he intends loon
, to remove out of this state. Any person having a just de j
mand against the fubferiber, is reqyefted to produce the firft
" fame for settlement. § lw j
• iea- Mount Holly, August 16, 1796.
~~~A middle-aged Woman,
\TTHO has been used to the care of children, and can
§ V V give refetence for her reputation, may hear of a
"" place, as child's maiJ, by applying to the Printer.
AUg. >5 i—
' Lottery J
Sally, T7OR raising fixthoufand fix hundred and sixty-seven ,j,
1 dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 500©
I 1000 1000
Me, I s°o S°° r T
' s 400 lOCO J
, 29 100 4000 the
ls> 00 jo 4950 lea
100 45 5 000 the
2000 10 40,000 on^
c Last drawn numbers ®f loo® dollars each, 5000 in
' thi
4334 Prizes. 44>450 Gt
T7 4018 Blanks.
tei
n P 1^8 ' 6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45° fe '
is bur- Q . rder of the Diredors of the Society for eftablilh- ""1
02W i n g Ufeful Manufa&ures, the of the Pat- " r
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the fa
foregoing Seheme to the public, and have direiled them de
to refund the money to those persons who have purchased |T
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets | ° !
in this Lottiry. ; 1
adc rhe lottery has ailually commenced drawing, and will ®
. continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes f«
g ood may be seen at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64 «'
south Second street, who will give information where tick- te
ets may be procured. 1
£ Dated this 17th day of June, 1796. K
. — J. N- GUMMING, 7 P
JACOB R. HARDENBERG,
JONATHAN RHEA, )
;/ r th „ f To be fold,
cliarges. A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun-
J\ ty of Gloucetter, and state of New-Jerfcy, contain- 1
United ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
.4w tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
E»veat part of th« arable land is in a high state of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover. .
On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
with four rooms'on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
1 the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
ftreet. heufe. I'he garden is large, and contains a good collection
tion of the best kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees;
the orchard eonfifts of about three bundled grafted app'e
.. trees. Any person isclincd to pur chafe said premises, may
y be informed ef the terms by applying to
xt " ep luI1 " Andrew Hunter.
tf July 49 F
Just Arrived, <
In the Snow Boft.n, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li- r> EGS 1
verpool, 13 Coun
5000 ,Bnfhels SALT ; 1
soo Crates QUEENS VVARE; T and • wWhcl
AnAlTortmentof SHIPCHAJfPLERY; underraen
F O R. S A L E Supcrfit
Onboard, at Pine-street wharf. Apply to Vorklh
Jame; Campbell, or •vt'-'d-
Latiftier- FUa«ti
«. i
■■ ;—C. , — Loncjoi
I Landing, • »'«**
Of: India
From on board the Schooner JZppedition, LongC
St. Croix RunvScSugar,
For Sale by F. COPPINGfiR, 4-4 am
Aug. II 5 >.»T South Front-street. 4-4 &<
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. &\%?
■ 4-4
Notice is hereby Given, ifarg.
j rp>HAT.agreeably to an a& of Congress of the United Quiltti
X Statesci America, paiTed at Philadelphia, the 28th day ?, a . ac X
of May, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey- Gingh
ance of perlons, a<\d repealing the former acts for that pur- 1
p o s e , —Thai there {hall be levied, collected and paid, upon Mtns
all carriages sos the conveyance of persons, which (hall be ivia
kept by or lor any pcrfon, for-his or her own ule, or to let
out to hire, or for the conveying of pailengers, the fevcral du
ties and rates following, to wit. '
f For and upon every Coach, 15 dols. j
upon every Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Port Chariot, 12 do\n (-*
upon every Poll Chaise, 12 doU.
upon every Phaeton, with or without tpp, 9 dols V V
upon eVery Coachce, 9 dols. contain;
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work, above, alley le;
with blinds, glafles or curtains, 9 dols. and 50
. upon four wheel carriages, having framed posts and <
top* witbttcel fpt ings, 6 dols. stories
S, -Carriage!. *Ub wooden* »on Jo<^
fprtugs or jacks, 3 dols. - ; „y ra ;i :
upou auricles'with tops, 3 dols. ar
upon cliailes with tops, 3 dots. ov ' en
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols. wine-c
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols. 1
upon two wheel carriage*, with steel or iron fpnngs,
3 dols. bnck 1
P" For and up»n all other two wheel carriages, a dols. ing 30
'ii, upon every four wheel carriage, havir.g framed polls is at p:
and tops, and relliug upon wooden spars, 2 dols. part d
lar The Colli tlors of the Revenue ot the firft lurvey may a
Diftriftof will attend daily, until the 30th day dwelli
of of September next, for the purpose of receiving rhe duties on an( j b .
Carriages, at No. it;, in Rate or Saffalras street, in the City ho
,b- of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Eq. in the bithll
E. County b' Montgomery ; and at the house of Abranam Uu
bois, Esq. in the County of Hncks; of which all persons pol
leired ot tuch Carriages are delircd to take notice. m d
Notice is also given, goo d
_ TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri- room
tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to theifi ; one Ii maim
cerice for carrying on the business ol retailing of Wines, in a
on less quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one At thi
by licence for carrying on the business of retailing Spirituous li- I
qfors in lets quantities than so,gallons,at thelame time and $ih
at the fame .places, by the officers legally authorized to grant
ore lucb Ucciacc-. WILLIAM NICHOLS, ( B V 1
to- InfpcQor of the Revenue of the 61ft survey
'Office of Infprflion,at ?
Ibe PhiladelDlii.. aift l"lv, 1796. S
K TAKE" NOTICE, C
-THAT applieition will be made for the renewal of Vutl
ol "- L the following certificates, iiTiiecTby Joseph Nourfe, I per,
ikes Register of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Oril
ndi " wold, Esq. of Norwich, Conne&icut— Au
by I certificate, fix per cent domifticftock, No. 13,907
S " -dated the i 7 tliDecember, 1795, bearing mtereft from j
f ft - the firfl day of January, 179 1 .^'l 97 M " lo ° it S!
°, on 1 ditto, tlires per cent, domestic stock, No. 10,681 bgtv
1 d , e —dated December 16, 1795. bearing interest fromthe Uni
: firfl day of January, ngi, for 994 30-100 dollars.
W 1 ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,166— dated the 17th ,
December, 1795, bearing interest from the firil Jauu- is at
ary, 1801, for 798 8 3"l«° dollars. °ft
' Said certificates are supposed to liave lolt or eon;
r a " stolen in this city some time in December or Janu>;y 300
01 a , ~ ' fine
r ' JOSEPH THOMAS, i:
_2 No. 59, North Front-street. 1 On<
Philadelphia, July n, 1796- d6w ' no J
a fo ; e ° PMladelfihia, WefaCbefier, Strajburghi g
viz. Lane after, Tork and Frederick-town Lcc
JOO ° SIEGES. '
1000 n I CI P
500 THE proprietors of the above Stages, return their bed Na
lOCO i thanks to their friends and the public in general, for Ri(
2000 the encouragement received in this line of business, and beg j Ri(
4Q CO leave to inform the public, that they arc determined to run Sw
,000 their ft ages through from Philadelphia to Lancaster m -
iO,OOO one day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July instant, 1
5000 in the following manner,—viz. A Stage wdlfet out on
that day at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the houle ot I
...jo George Weed, Market-street, Philadelphia, and run by s
the wav of Weftcnefter and Strafburgh, arrive in Lancal-
terthe'fams evening, on Friday morning run to Wright's ?
,4 4(„ ferry and exchange passengers with the York and Fredej- ne
abliih- iek-town stage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on bat, 4j
ie p at . urday, and on Monday morning following, at 4 o clock, , a|
Fer the said stage willfet out from the said George Weed s, Phila, or
[ them delphia, and arrive at I.ancafter the fame evening, 00 or
rchafed Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out from the house los
tickets of Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive m Philadelphia ar
the fame evening, and will commence again on 1 hur.day fp
nd will 1 morning following, and continue every week The price le.
Prizes f° r from Philadelphia to LancaXter i» three lU]
No. 64 dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three quar- 0
re tick- ters. to Frederick town eight dollars, the like sums for J v
1 <>o.weight baggage, with the usual allowance of 14 lb. I
gratis to each palfenger, and 5 pence a mile for all way I £
passengers. _ 3 0, ™"S4W I v
nagers. John Reilly, U
j George Weed. I c
Sales of India Goods.
r, coun- rT ,. . , I
contain- The Cargo ef thefhip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal- 1
propor- eutta and Bengal,
ow> A CONSISTING OF
cultiva- A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
Clover. -Ml COTTON and SILK GOODS.
■k house ' AMONG WHICH AKF.
ir under | A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins, J
carriage- i Doreas, \Sfc. Alio,
it threes • Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
■d app'c- In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
iles.may For Sale by _
Wilhngs Sff Francis, 1
<?er. No, si Pccn Strsct.
F June 8 §
George Dob son,
Begs leave to inform the Brorr-Kwpcri in Town and
Country, that he ha« removed from Market-Street to
N°* 25, south Third-street,
where he is opening a Large and Elegant AlTortmeßt o, the
undermentioned articles —-v>*.
Superfine I.rtndoftClothsjnd Kerfeymeret,
Yorkfhiie lccond Do. Ho-
Eljlftic <io. do.
Mijc'd and Blue Coalings
FlauiirUs, &c. ■ • ■
Manchctter Printed CtllicOst,
London Chintz ditto, [
Blue and ditto Furnitures,
India ditto,
Long Cloths, Coflaes, Bafts«, Baiullas& CoijevremJ,
4-4 9-8 5-4 & 6-4 Superfine India Bosk MUslins,
4-4 and g-8 India Sook HandkerctilcU,
4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4&6-4 plain do. Muflicu, .
4-4 & 6-4 Britilh Jaconets,
6-4 BritiUi Checks and Mripes,
4-4 India «io. do, do.
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, &c.
A large assortment of figur'd and plain Muftinets,
Quiltings; Dimities, and Striped Nankeeus,
Fancy Waillcoatings,
Ginghams of tfie Quality, to Drawback,
India Nankeens,
Men's White and coloured Silk Shakings.
Mav 9 foweott
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT A'>'D \«ELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of -General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOT of GROUND thereu.nto belonging,
the weft f:de of Third-street, near Umon-ftrcet
containing in front 31 feet, and in depth too feet, to un
alley leading into Union-street. rjie house is $2 feet front
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms in it arc
large commodious, and completely finilhcd; the two lust
ftorics are each 13 feet high ; there arc 20 mahogany
0 the Iwrtrfc ; a geometrical staircase, with mahajja
ny rails and a good sky-light. The kitchen is in the cell
ar, which is spacious and convenient, and finilhed with an
oven, stew-holes and pantries, a fervaiits' hall and large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen,, in front of which is an
area ill which there is a pump. Ihe yard is vaulted*
s, Communicating with the laid building is a neat three-llory
brick house, on the north fide of Union-street, contain
ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; the lower part of which
Us is at present occupied as a compting-houfe, a-nd the upper
Is. part, divided into wGll-finilhed large chambers, 1 *iis house
he may at a small expense. be converted into a convenient .
ay dwelling: The street door is very handsome, and the front
on and back have Venetian window-lhutters. Adjoining the
'V lafl house, upon,the lot belonging' to the firft, are crefled
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewlfe very good coach
house and Habits finilbed equal (or nearly to) with any in
' the city, onalot cqataiinug on Uaion ftfect .30. feet, and
in dep_n 011 the wuft fide ot laid alley .5 1 feet. There are
good cellars unde, the whole of the buildings, and a wine
ri- room over par.tof theliable, with a hay-loit over there
li maindtfr. For further particulars enquire of
1 a EDWARD BONS.sLL & Co.
" ,e At their Office No. 64 Docfc-iftreet. between Walnut «Sc K r
li- ?o flreets.
§! h month 24th, 1^96.
ant PROPOSALS,
(By Wiluam Cohbett, opposite thrift Church, Fkila
ve delpbia, for publilliing by fubferijition,
; T l !* (\ <-> rjT J'lr- r. 1 —1
Its CRIMES, CRUELTIES and PERFIDIES,
— /COMPRISING aa Inquiry into the manner of diflemi-
nating, uiicjcr the appearance of Philosophy and
los ViRTUt, principles whiih are equally fubvsrlive of Or
rfe, per, Virtue, Religion, Liberty and Happiness.
Jril By WILLIAM PLAYEAIK,
I Author of the Commercial and Political Atlas, &c.
9071 With an Appendix,
■om p T peter porcupine,
* I Shewing the close connexion Which has ever fubfiftei
I between the Jacobins at Paris and the Democrats in the
I United States of America.
I CONDITIONS.
[7th I j _ This new, entertaining and inftruflive work, which
illu * i is at once a history of Jacobinism and a complete history
I of the Frenth revolution down to the end of 1795, will
t or I eonfift of two volumes, ocSavo, each containing about
J»;y I 300 pages. It flw.ll be well printed, on a new type and
I fine paper.
11. The price of each volume, bound in boards, will be
J One Dollar and a Quarter, paid for on delivery ; and to
Iv. I non fubferibers, a'Dollar a:a Half
I in. As soon as a fufficiont number of copies ffeall be
■ 0 U fubferibed for, the uiork will be put to the press, and fin
's ' I ifhed as expeditiously as a strict attention to nSatnefs ami
I accuracy will admit of. • ; j
I Silbfcriptioris taken by the publilher, and the prin-
I cipal Bookfeller9 of Philadelphia; Mcffrs. Spotlwoodand
r bed J Nancredeof Boston ; Mr. Rivington of New-York ; Mr.
'' or I Rice of Baltimore ; Meflrs. Pritchard and Davidfop of
j Richmond, Virginia; and Mr. Young of Charleston,
0 run j South Carolina. Aug. I a
ftant, J F 0 R S A L E,
"re °of I A. very Valuable Estate,
in by J /-called TJVITTENHA M, situate in the
incaf- j township of Upper Derby, andcountyof Delaware,
ight s| j I_l1 _ 1 m ;i es from Vhiiad Iphia, and half a mile from the
redej-I newroa j. containing 230 acres of excellent land,
1 I 45 of which.are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
clock, I [ an( and the reft arable of thu firft quality. There are
Pti.il:.- lon p rem |f es a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
'g» otl I on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
houfd 1 0 £ e!(Ce ll £n t, wa ter in front; a large frame barn, stables,
lelphia I ;in( i other convenient buildings a smoke-house andftone,
ur,day I fp r i n g_houfe ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
- P rlce I es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
»three 1 un( j e r tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
IHar"1 Har " los water 111 each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
mS 'ik 1 ven ' ellt f° r grazing.
14 lb. I The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
11 way I eu itj va tion of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
$4W I vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
I country feat.
The foregding is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
I deceased, and offered forfait by
Mordecai Lewis,
• | Oil. q. eo."l Surviving Executor,
m Cal- -
Landing
Madras 1 From on baard the Nancy, William Belcher, imf-
I ter, frora£ourdeaux, a cargo, eonfifttnj* of—
360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET,
Ujltns, J 2 , 2 Cas es 0 f 24 bottles each, Cbret,
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINEi
% 1 BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and
ER . I i TRUNK of RIBBONS,
I Toe Sale \xy
CIS » I F. Coppineer.
Strstt. I
§ I July 23.Philadelphia,
SATURDAY EVENING, August 20.
A duel was fought a few days ago on the banks
, of ih»- Schuylkill—the partiea foreigners, one of
which was mangled in one of his arms. Three or
four (hots were fired by each. The cause we did
uot learn.
The floating bridges over the Schuylkill hare
been complained of; numerous are the accidents •
that occur on them in the course of every year : '
The week before last a carriage and horses wwe
precipitated into the water from the bridge over the
lower ferry at Gray's. The horses, a very fine ,
pair, were loft, and some of the company in the
carriage had a naVrow escape from drowning. The '
railing on these bridges, either from the form of '
their conftru&ian, or from carelessness, affords a
■very feeble prote&ion.
We hear that Genera) Charles Cotes-worth
Pinckne*, of South-Carolina, is to succeed Mr
Monroe, as Minister Plenipotentiary of
tiiteil States to the French Republic.
Mr. Pi n/:kne y is a gentleman of the firft abi- 1
lities, a firm Republican Patriot, and a decided &
unequivocal friend to the Conftitation and Govern
ment of HIS OWN COUNTRY.
Notwithstanding the superiority of the naval
power of Great-Britain, the French traverse the •
ocekn, and make immense captures. It is highly
probable that great part of one of the Jamaica
fleets, lately met with by an American veffei, ow
ing to the fmallnefs of the convoy, will be captur-
ed ; as a fnperior'force of the French went in pur- j
suit o£ them, aiid were within five or fix hours fail. -
STOCKS.
Six per Cent. - - - - - - u . J
Three per Cent. --»... . j o fj
4? per Cent. - - none for sale. - - (
J| perCent ... x ir6
Deferred Six per Cent. .... ij/6 to 7
BANK TJcitwl States, - — - - 12 pr. cent.
— Pennfylvariia, - - - . 30
—— North America, - - - - 46 I
Insurance Comp. North-America, 40 per cent. adv. -
Pennsylvania. 5 percent. '
COURSE OF EXCHANGE. <-
On London, at 30 days, per £.100 fterl. par. '
■ at 60 days, par to 1621-3 '
• at 90 days, 161 a 163 1-2 (
Amsterdam, 60 days, per guilder, 41
— 90 days, , 40
A letter from London by the last arrival dates—
that great apprehensions had been entertained that c
the (hippersof Rice from the United States would C
sustain great losses, in consequence of the great i
quantities of Rice imported from India—'but these ~
appreherrfions\ had' entirely fubiided. The Rice l f
from'lndia had turned out fa bad, being of an in- /
ferior quality, that American Rice had got up to f
255, flerh'ng per cwt. f
Married, on Wednesday evening last by Bifliop
'White, Mr. Charles Maltby, to Mils Sarah _
Sweirs—both of this city.
From late Engli/l papers. G
CAMBRIDGE, May zj.
The bill fer affording some trifling relief to that
refpeftablt body of Christians, jhe Cfciakers, w >th
has, owing to the opposition of the archbishop of G
Canterbury, and the bifliop >of Rochester, been G
thrown out by the House of Lords. The latter
(Dr. Horflcy) confeffed that he had no idea of the q
fcrupoldUs conscience of a Quaker. His Lordship —
lpoke currefYy. He doubtless judged of other —
. people's confcic rices by his own.—Que re,—Does —
his Lordship understand even the meaning of the
Word ?. Prudence, however, one might have hop- _
ed, would have suggested to our prelates, uot to
be so very ftiff on the fubjeft of tythe oppressions H
But the testimony of all ages unhappily proves,
ttyit. churchmen are the last to learn wisdom, and A
to prevent even their own ruin by timely reform.
The Jacobin fattion at Paris have happily been H
defeated, in their attempt to overthrow the g°- "
vernment by infurrettion. Although the men who H
now rule in France, loverturned the couftitutional
governed by the fame accutfed means on the 10th
of Augttft, 1792, yet we hope such means will In
never be again attended with success, against any —
conftitu*ion, whi h, whatever may be its form or ~~
defects, like the republican constitution of France, "
has in it the genuine principlesof liberty, found.-
Ed on the RIGHTS OF man. j,.
Norwich Theatre exhibited, last Saturday, a L *
scene of confufion, loyalty and bloody nrfes, oc
casioned by the officers of the diffetent regiments ~
there, infixing on the audience hearing the song of _
"God save the King," with hats off. The com- Le,
marid did not suit the disposition of the people, and L 'l
a general fcuffle took place, which terminated in
touting the officers, who fled to their barracks and
quarters for protedlion. Several of them loft their
swords and hats. It is to the credit of two or M,
three of the officers present, that they did not join M '
in the difgraceful scene. M '
. Mi
' ' *"• ■ 1— " - " I" 1 M:
New-England RUM in Hhds. ~
COUNTRY GIN in barrels,
JUNIPER BERRIES in Calks, —
SPERMACETI, ")
COMMON WHALE, and £ OIL.
TANNERS 3
SPJiRMACETI CANDLES,
Tallow Ditto, Mould and Dipt &
White SOAP, in Boxes
BeR Boston BEEF, in barrels and half barrels
CODFISH, in hhds,
Bed Bofteo MACKREL, in barrels, and
A few choice fmoaked SALMON, For Sale by p
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co. ?
Alio, a fmallinvoice of well aflorteu
India Goods, jujt arrived. J?
Aug. 23 ' jio
Valuable Manufactory. °^ r
FOR SALE, to
A Soap anil Candle Manufaitorv, standing i>) a On
convenient part of the city. The works arc almost ] an ,
new—on an entire new conftruflien—built of the best
materials, and ready to set to work immediately.
Apply to FRAUNCES& VAN REED, trol
Brokers, No. 63 south. 3d street. awi
Who discount approved Notts of hand at the short- 20t
cfl notice. Aug. the
11
PRI CE S CUR RENT.
•1" Philadelphia, August 20.
rIR OOANTITY DOLLARS AT XOO CENTS.
° r Soils. Cts. Dolls' Cts.
Anchors, pr.il. 10j N a ;is, id, 101, \ij,
Alhtm, £n<rli/l,pr ctol 7 75 I and ZOd, per lb. 13
ire Ditto, Ruch, pr U>. I! K«tmcgi, per Ik. II
nts AJhet, pet, per ton, 110 Oil,, hnfeed, per gall. Ils
Pearl, 15° | oliw >
Arrack, per gallon, I ditto, per cafe, 9
WC Bacon, SUuldcr,pr&. 101 Siveet, best, in
he Flittbes, 131 flap, per box, 10
ine Brandy, common, I 6o ditto bnjlsts, I?
he — Comae, ils I Utiles, 7
'U _ Brazilttto, per ton, ,8o -Spermaceti f>r gall I o6 (
r Bricks, per M. 7 Train,per ill!, 18
01 Bread, flip, per cut. 6 -Whale, per got. j 40
3 Ditto, pilot 9 501 Porter p;r caJK,' J r 73°
Ditto, small water London,per dot. 2SO
per It eg, 90 American do, bott.
Beer, American, in bot- I ind 3
It ties, per dozen, bot' j Pitch, per HI. 4
LJ- tUs included, 160 Port, Burlington, per
Ditto, per barrel, 6 | barrel, If) to 20
Boards,CedarferMfeet 30 Lower, county, 19
Heart, 3° Carolina, 16
Mew England, 26 80 \ Peas, Albany, pr bufi. 93
n- Q ai ° if, Pepper, per lb. 38
Merchantable pine, 38 j Pimento, 14
. Sap, do. 18 \Raiftns, bcjlper teg II
Mahogany,pr.foot Ditto per jar, 6
he %he above are thefoallop \ Ditto per box 8
lly prices, for the yard Rice, per civt. 5
!ca price price, add Idol- \Roftn per barrel SJO
W- lar, 33 cents, pr M. \ Rum, Jamaica, pr gal. 167
Brimjlone in rolls, per I "Antigua _I 54
,r " civt. 3 6l IVuidiuard I 40
"• Beef,Bo/loa, per b1f.13 al6 Barbados I 27
lil. Country, ditto 14 Country, N. E. 97
Frejh, cwt. sto 8 \ Saltpetre, per c-wt. 50
Butter per lb. 18 a3O \SaJafrts, per ton
— in tegs 14 j , ditto, 60
dandles Sperm, per lb. 56 I Steel, German, per lb. 14
IVa* I —Englijby blijl.pr cwt. 12 24
■ Myrtle IVax 201 —American, per ton 133 33
Mould talloiv 18/o 19 —Crowley* t, prfaggst
1. Dipped 15 I Snale root, per lb. -1 35
Cheese, , per th. 28 Soap, Lrotvn per ib. .. 12
Country TI a 131 —White 14
Chocolate 25 a 30I —Cajlilc * 22
Cinnamon 661 Starch 14
Cloves I 50 \Snuffipr dsz battles JO
Coqua, tier c-wt. 18 I Spermaceti refnedpr IL
Coffee, per lb. 25 to 28 I Sail cloth, Engtyb. No*
Coal, per buflel, 30 a 401 I, per yard, 33
Copperas, per cwt. 3 | '"Bollon, No. J, do. 3 0
Cordage, American, per | ■-—No. 2, do. t
cwt. 16 alB I Sugar, lump, ptr lb. 25
at CottOn, per lb. 33 to 4Q| ——Loaf, Jingle res. 27
Id Currants 101 Sitto double ditto
at Duck, RuJJia,per piece, Ijal&J— Havannab, wb'rte 20
r Ravens II 501 ■ ■ Ditto brown 16
Dutch Sail Duck 24 I —Mufcovadop. cwt 67
Feathers, per lb. 661 ■ ■ Eajl India, pr. '
n * Flax, ditto 111 cwt. I 4 66
to Flaxseed, pfr bujhel 60J Sp. 'Turpentine pr gall. 66
Flour, Sup. per bl. 10 50 a 111 Salt, allum, pr bujbell 66
—« —Common, IO I —Liverpool 56
Bur middlings, bed, 8 lOJ ——Cadiz 60
'P Meal, Indian 4 33 a 66 j—Lijbon 63
H ditto Rye, 433 a 66 j Ship building IV k 0.
ShipJluffp ct. 3 JOa 41 frames per ton 22 67
Fujlic per ton, 2J I Ditto Live Oak, 26
Gin, Holland per cafe, 7 Do. Red Cedar pr foot
Do. per gall. I 931 Shingles 18 inches,pr
Glue, per lb. 181 M 4
Ginger,whiter ace,per cwt 18 I Ditto 2 feet 9 12
jf Ginseng, per lb. 30 hogshead 45 33
, n Gunpowder, cannon,per Red oat ditto 38
> r qr-cajh, 33 I Leogan 26 33
Ditto, fine glazed, 38 I Barrel 30
ie Grain, IVheatprbuJbl .5 oJ 3 Heading 44
P Rye, I I Sims Otter, be/1 pr piece 3; :
:r Oats, 6c —Mii/ts 2 (>
;s Indian Corn, —Fox, grey 40 /054
r Barles', I 201—Dittoed I 20 1
befl(belled pr.lb. —Martins 50
Buctiuheat per j —Fi Q/ers e 7
O bujbel, 7j I —Bears j
3 Hams, pr. lb. 13 —Racoons (, 0 '
Hemt, imported, per I—Musk-rats, 37
J '" I > 3®° I—Beaver, per lb. 162 '
American, per lb, IO I —Deer, in hair 2j a 33 I
Herrings, per bbl. 6 I Tar, N. ferf. 24 gtll.
n Hides, raw pr. lb. Bto 9 I per bbl.
- Hops, JO I —Carolina, 32 vail. 250 !
0 Hoafbctid hoops per M. 30 I Turpentine, per bbl. 320 1
1 Indigo, French pet lb: 167 I Tobacco, J. River bejl J
, 1 Carolina, I | lOO.'b. 7a 8 r
™ Irons, fad perm 133 33 Peterjburg ba6 50
II Iron, cajltngs per cwt. 4 Potrwmac 3i 5
y —Pcnnfylv.barfcarielliis\ Georgia 6a J ?
r R«f[<a per ton 97 Carolina 4i ; »
P'B 33 \Tea H-fon, perjb. Ito 3 V
' Sh "'> 234 331 Hyson Jtin, 83 ,
' rr /w '' " Bl s\—s«*t<mg, rill, f
Junk per cwt. 5 \— Congo, 5 0
, Lard, hogs per lb. 141—Bohea, 3 5 r
_ yLeadinpigs, per cwt. 533 W/ro, refined, per lb. 14
8 m bars, 7 \ Tin, per box 16 50 ti
r white, 13 3^3 Vanilla, per lb, 20 a 24 O
» 9 j ?rdivreafe, do. I i
. Leather, foal per lb. 32 \ Vermillion, ~0 11
j Lignum vita: perton, 34 Varnijh, per gallon, b
, L«p>>oad, 40 I Wax, sL, per U>. ~ «
Mace per lb. 12 \lVhale-bone,long,p T ib. Z1 n
Mackarel, bejl per bbl 12 IVine, Madeira pr p. 236 ,|
' second quality 8 Lfli,, 1 16
• Madder, best per,lb. 2C Teneriffe,pr ral. 80
, Marble wrought pr foot 60 Fayat £ »
M'stfpar, ditto 60 Port 'per pipe „o 31
Molasses per gall. 56462! Do. i„ bott. Pr doz ft
"ftsr , per lb. 46 I Claret,per cajh40/050 t |
four, ,n bottles doz. 130 Sherry, ter gallon i, O p
per dozen, \2O .1 Malaga, g 4 B
——
Foreign Intelligence. "
By, lie lajl arrivals from France and England. in
GLASGOW, June 9. f e
Yesterday morning arrived in tnc Clyde, the 01
Dutch fngate the Jason, of 36 guns and ao. men, to
r-: ,V onckum ' commander. Thi* veffei. th
whish failed tram the Texel on the 23d of Februa- Pi
17 loft, was, as appears from the depolition of the' w;
Captain now before us, one of a fleet of 17 f a || th
four or five of which were of the line, and twelve m
of which wrre bound to the East-Indies, under ihe -
command of Rear Admiral Lucas ; the rema.nder of
to Surinam, under the command of Admiral Braak. A
On the Bth ot March, between the iflandsof Shet- hit
land and Ferro, Capt. Donckhum met with a gale er
ft wind, which (htfted hi, ballast, separated him -
from the reft „f the fleet, and obliged him ,0 bea, P<
away for Dronhtheim, whete he arrived about th al
2°th of the fame mouth. After refitting a- Dron mi
theim, Capt, Donckhum, on the 20th of May he
am* prosecuted his" voyage toward, Surm.nn, without
*ny remarkable occurrences until the 31ft ot that
month, when, 50 leagues to the weft ward of Broad
haven in Ireland, he fell in with the Mary Ann of
this port from Nevis, which he captured and .funk,
after taking out of her fouie rum and (lures. Capt.
Cts. D. theikbeat about by contrary winds in the fame
latitude, until the 4th iuft. when his crcw, d:fpleaf
-13 ed at the finking of the Mary Anne, which 'jo
privad them of their prize-money, or it may be,
incensed at their nfficers for appropriating to their
own life the rum and stores taken from the Mary I \
Anne, muynied, eonfintd Capt. D. and his prin
-1 cipal officers, put the frigate under the command
of Capt. Crawford, of the Mary Anne, and order- 1
ed him to pilot her into the fir It British port, with
0> " an intention, it ia said, of delivering up the vefTel I
40 to government, and entering themselves voluneeers 1
30 on board the British navy. ]
5° HAGUE, May 26.
State of the army of Holland. 1
The national army of Holland consists of seven *
hqlf brigades of infantfy, organized on the new i
plan. Every half brigade contains a battalion of t
light-horse, a battalion of artillery, and a regiment t
of cavalry, which are all in good condition. The 1
light-horse especially form a molt beautiful corps, t
14 They intend yet to raise a half brigade of infantry, (
25,000 French soldiers form the principal of their 1
foreign troops. 3
The Republic has, besides, five battalions of t
J0 Waldeckers, and two of Saxe-Gotha, in pay. They a
67 are about to re-organize them in brigades, and are
54 now in negociation with the Princes of Waldeck
4° and Saxe-Gotha.
There are, besides, in Holland, three disbanded
battalions of Swiss, but who will be retained on c
the pressing solicitation of the Dutch minister, ci- h
tizen de Witt, in Switzerland. f
14 All jhefe united troops, national and foreign,
** make a force of 49,000 men. t
The fixed maintenance of the twenty.five thou- a
35 sand French soldiers in the campaign, amounts to o
in twelve millions of florins per annum ; they are en
-14 tirety at the disposition of the Republic, and their if
chiefs are under the supreme command of the *1
jo Dutch National Contention. Their plan is to k
augment the army from time to time by nev* bri- f<
gades. d
•33 In the mean time, the plan of arming the citi- b
• 5 ° sens as National Guards has pafled ; they are to
' 2S the number of 62,000, the sixth pari of which n
*7 en g ß g e t0 serve, in cafe of neceflity, in campaign (
or in garrison. p
The greatest difficulty in this disposition was to tl
determine, whether the ci-devant companies of
Orange, who were accustomed to place themselves h
66 annually before the palace of the Stadtholder, ft
66 should be comprised in this organization ; after I
some opoofition, it was agreed that they should be 1
of the number. o
63 The maritime force of the Republic will eonfift b
of 22 veflels of the line, 31 frigates, and 16 cut
-67 ter*. To call forth a desire for the sea service, they tl
have established certain premiums for the encou- 6
ragement of seamen. «
ROME, May 18. tl
i* On Friday last the banker Bottoni receired an
Clmrtt Crnm Tl*- (-
verse, who sent him a letter from the commiflioner ft
Salicetti, wherein the latter declares, that the ri
33 French are determined to enter the Papal domi- it
nions, and that they will allow the Pope but 20 tl
days to treat with the Republic. (In order to un
derftand this, it is necellary to know, that this
54 Bottoni was commiflioned about a year and an half d;
20 ago by the Pope, whose only confidence he pof- A
So feffes, to negociate with the minister Villard.) T
57 Bottoni immediately communicated these important n<
60 i |fp tches to the Duke Brafchi, nephew of his Ife
37 Hoiinefs. It was not difficult to make the Dnke pr
6z 'e» the necessity of immediately commencing ane
3j gociation, for he is a feniible man ; but this was an
not the cafe with the Holy Father. The Duke M
;o introduced Bottoni into his uncle's presence, and m
}0 it was with difficulty he made him perceive the m;
great danger wherewith the holy fee was threau.r- ye
P l- ThePo PPscf Wh °f e refolutlon « aie always the
e e . of a momentary impulse, immediately decided
to give powers to Bottoni to treat with the General it
rn Chief and the Commiflary of the French go- ini
v ""n ? ent. But the Duke of Brafchi finding that fai
S3 the banker Bottom had not the requisite abilities in<
, q or a million of such acknowledged importance, wf
15 S' td ,lis uncle > that k wou,c) be of the an
-4 nigh eft importance under the present circumftancea, ftr
° '° f Ve T ; ecoHr^ o th e ehevalier Azzara, minister ma
ot the King of Spain, who had repeatedly offered H
o the mediation of hi. Court. The Pope, prevented zai
by a sentiment of (hame to have recourse to a person of
3 " h °J e ff°°d office he had so often refufed, would rot
a not follow t he pr udent advice of his nephew; who ere
thereupon proposed, that Mr. Bottoni thouid be Gr
0 ! C , C m°,T a ,r D hy tW n personS of dirtindion, a „d an,
1 and the mV Pn " Ce * a KS onie9 > senator of Rome, ter
o »nd the rniff.onary Marcfihalchi, one of the forty offi
fenatorsof Bologna: the.Holy Father confentcd
o ill, ■ uTr " 0t fuffcr ,he departure ef
° Bottom to be deferred for a single
, ** fame time that the Pope and his nephew has
' f C n the Car dinal Zelada. fe- lerr
a T of state, who knew nothing of all this ed
o7°|!is hT7° ,h^Cheva,icr Azzara in the name
in onW°" quest .' n ? I»'™ to come to Rome bet
ftatc fA" Cr f le W ' th thc congregation of an^
te refptding the dangers of the holy fee. The rea
• ouYanTord 7 had , W,i " e " from «al with- has
' to hisV fr r° m .' he Hol y Father a "d contrary feq,
' iho S hfr ß ? Umt Tr THt S P- i;h ""'""I"
' P,,n j C ° l " 0t refl,fe an ' nvi, ation from the I
■ was h'isT Ca r ', mmed,atfly from Ticol! - What Ital
■ wh ? rr* at Rom<; he
■ miflion' ' h7 th' u u OUt ° n an ;m P°'«ant E
"• —The Duke rTk ■c Y Wa " ,ed to ir ' fl,lt him - 1
of ilate ilf" informed by the fee re tary hor,
Azzara t „T to the Chevalier dep
■ him many excSi'and S"' Th<
: Si
Pope of what had ( ° lnf ' rm toe
-rxri—-
• hclinefs to tak« fifth a fteu ' aUCr to e "S a S c his and
a itep. He nevertheless effec- pofi
» •
cut I ted it at last, aflifted by the eloquence of theChev
hat lier Gandi, who has much ascendant over the P CD I
>ad- His holiness saw the Chevalier Azzera, and requef
of ted him to lay alide afl resentment, and to j ßlei ! »
nk, pose the meditation of the King of Spain in favorof
ipt. I the Church. The SpaniPn minister gave way ' 0
ime the Pope's requelt, and they embraced very cordial
eaf- !y. Yelterday Mr. Azz?ira, accompanied by the
£r- Al>be Evanglifte set out for the French head-quar
be, [ ters. Government had already dispatched a mef
leif fenger to Mr. Bottoni, with orders to.fufyend all
,iry j negociations until the arrival of the SpaniJh m [ R ;.
rin- fter.
and In order to finifh the history of this broil, I have
ler- to add, that the Secretary of State fearing that tl\»
'ith Pope would be very angry at him for having wr j t .
ffel ten without his orders, immediately sent inhisrefzg
:ers nation. The holy father accepted the fame with
I plcafure ; he gave indeed his acceptance immediate
ly in writing, and delivered o the Abbe E»ange
j lifte in order to carry it to the Cardinal. But thi»
ren Abbe being a creature of the Cardinal's, and fear.
iew ing that he should loose all his credit if his proteg
of tor loft .his place, instead of carrying the accepta
ent tion to the Secretary of state, went 10 the Chrve-
Her Azzarau, informed him of what had pafled
ps, and entreated him to engage the Pope to keep the
ry. Cardinal Gelada in his place. The miniSei took it
cir chearfully upon him to intercede for tht Cardinal,
jbJ the Pope, who could refufe him nothing under
of the present circumltanees, agreed to withdraw hit
ley acceptance.
are LONDON, June 20.
:ck The Marquis de la Cafas, the new SpanilhiAm.
baffador, made his entree at St. James's, and had
led his audience of the King, on WedneGlay the 21ft
on of October. The odds are very confidirable,. that
ci- his excellency will not complete his twelve months
(lay in this metropolis.
r n , Baron Jacobi, the Prussian envoy, who about
this time last year went to France, is said to be
iu. again preparing to visit the capital of the republic,
to on a diplomatic errand of no small importance.
:n- Manfieur. the brother of the late wretchedJtin^,
eir is now at Rothemburgh, on the river Neckar,
he where he enjoys the luxury of being still called a
to king ; and what is more material, where he ha«
ri- some pretty Neckar wine, that need not have been
disdained, even by the last James, when difehargei
ti- by us, and living on charity at St.Germain's,
to The following intelligence was on Saturday an
ch nounced at Lloyds in a letter from Chriltian&nd,
gn j (Norway) dated 3d of June, tranfmiued fey the
provost of Edinburgh to Mr. Bennet, matter of
to the coffee-houfe :
of " There are now cruising in the North Seas, in
res lat. 57, eight French and Dutch frigates, and
:r, some (tout armed veffcls, under the orders of.Capt.
;er Le Bozre, of the French frigate Republican.—
be They have already captured (ixteen Britilh veffcls,
one of them belonging to Thouburn, commanded ' '
ill by David Halket."
it* j A letter from Edinburgh, which accompanied
ey j the above, expresses much appjehenfion for the
iu-1 fafety of a fleet qf 70 fail of British vessels, which
I were appointed to fail some (hart time since, from
I the Sound, under convoy of three frigates,
an J Adm. Macbride is Hated to have been off Bergen
*- I tit. 60) on ihe 4th ; a (loop was
er J from Leith, in quest of him, immediately on the
he J receipt of the above intelligenc, and we tru!l com
li- J municated it to him in fufficient time to prevent
so j their return to port.
n GLASGOW, June 14.
lis I By the Ohio, which arrived in the Qlyde yefter
»lf| day, in 24 days from New-York, we have received
'f- American newspapers up till the 16th of May.—.
— j Ihe States seem determined to preserve adrift
nt I neutrality, a bill having passed t?.e house of repre
ss I fentatives on the 13th May, to prevent the sale of
ce I prizes in the potts of the United States.
s The Penguin sloop of war, a cutter her consort;
as I and ihe Princess of Wales Eacife (loop, Captain
:e Murray, arrived in the Clyde on Sunday, and are
,d moored near the Dutch frigate the Jason ; the
e marts and yards of which we are informed are not
1- yet struck.
c | . June 19.
d I A conliderable part of the crew of the Jason,
il I it is said, were in the service of Great-Britaiu dur
i-1 ing the American war, and, from the time «f their
t failing from the Texel, were afilduoufly rrprefent*
s I ing to the reft of the crew the great advantage#
•, I which British .seamen enjoy over thufe of France
e I and Holland : they often reprsbated the war ift
1, I strong terms, and expjeffed their diffatisfa&ioa, on
r I many occasions, with the «ew order of thiega in
j Holland, particularly with the device of fraterm*
J j zatityi on their flag, which they termed /the wkor*
) I of France, an A which is now flying reversed, iuf-
J j rounded by the Briti(h flag. Numbers of the
3 I crew are daily on shore, parading the streets of
r J Greenock with the Orange cockade in thcir.hats;
J and it is expedted that the whole of them will en
, ter volunteers with Capt., Ramfey, the Regulating
, I officer.
fj PARIS, 15 Prairial, June 4.
j We learn from Basle that the canton of Zurich
1 j has officially announced to our amb'affador Barthe
- j lemy, that all the Swiss Cantons have acknowjedg
, J ed the French Republic.
; I Letters from Florence f»y, that the differenee
: I between the value of gold and silver is 8 per cent.
FI and that the Louis Men loses there in gold. The
■ I reason of this difference is, the Duke of Modena
I has be°n obliged to procure at Leghorn 140,000
I (equina (70,000 louis) to pay his contribution t®
I the French army.
j More than 1500 French emigtants ba*e quitted
I Italy to seek an asylum in Germany.
June 7.
EXPEDITION AGAINST LEGHORN.
I 1 lie march of the French troops against Leg-
I horn, to taka pofleflion of the Englifii prqpf.rty
I deposited there, was fixed for the 14th of May.
The body of men destined for that service amoun-
I ted to hve or fix thousand, under the command ps
I Gen. Maffena. This officer has the ftriftett orJer*
j to conduit himfelf with the greatest moderation in
I the 1 ufcan teriitory, to refpeft property, to pay
in ready money for all that his folsiers may nfe,
j and to spare every thins; but the Eng'ifh wealth de.
J posited at Leghorn. "I'hc French this appa<violation of. a neutral territory, as a just rcpri
'i vi }or the seizure of a French vessel by the Englilh
in the harbour of .Leghorn; without any refiffance
* cm the part ot the Tuscan government, and for
the partiality with which the grand Duke has per
mitted ;he English merchants to make Leghorn the
great depot for their Mediterranean trade.—What
ever may be the justice or suspicions of these com
plaints, the French will probably be fuccefsfulin
their plan for giving a dangerous wound to the Bri
ti(h Mediterranean commerce, as there is no force
. its Ttifcany which can make any (how of refillance.
They flatter themselves in Italy, that the territo
ries of the Pope will be regarded as neutral. Let
■ ters from Verncs, however, announce that several
French privateers have appeared in the Adriatic,
which captute the Roman and Neapolitan vessels.
This leaves not a doubt of the intentions of the re
public, with refpeft to the Pope. Moreover the
iate Proclamation of Gen. Buonaparte to his army,
clearly announces thedefign to enter Rome, and to
operate there a change of system.
Extract of the Proclamation of the Commissioner
Salicetti and General Buonaparte, published at
Milan; 30' h Floreal 4th year.
The army is about to pursue its vi&ories, and
drive entirely out of Italy the despot who holds
Lombardy in chains. The independence and hap
pinefg of this country are connected with the fuc
cefles of the French. Lombardy ought then to
direst every effort towards this delirable object.
To feeure the march of the troops, we demand of
you provisions, which the army cannot receivefrom
France on account of its great distance from the
frontiers. It ought, therefore to find fupp'ties in
Lombardy, into which vi&ory has conduced it.
The rights of vrar ean -command us, and friendfhip
ihould hasten to offer us fucconr^,
This has determined us to impose a contribution
of 23,000,000 of iivres on the different provinces
of Lombardy. The wants of the army demand
it. The periods of payment, which ought to be
as soon as possible, (hall be fixed by particular in
ftru&ions. It is an easy contribution for so fertile
a country, above all, when the advantages which
may result from it are weighed.
The distribution of the fufh to be raised might
certainly have been made by the agents- of the
French Republic, and nothing would have been
more lawful; but they have confided it to the local
authorities and to the junto of state, pointing out
to them only its basis.—This contribution ought
be divided among the provinces, in the proportion
in which the impost, that Lombardy paid to the
tyrant of Austria, was levied. It ought to fall sole
ly on the rich, on peifonsin easy circumstances, on
the ecclefiaflical bodied, who have been too long
priviledged, and wf)o have hitherto had the address
to free themselves from imposition. In general,
the indigenf'eMs mud be spared as much as poffi
b,e -
If reqnifitioris of property are made, the general
in chief, and commissioner of the government de
clare, thai there Thall be no fur-charge of contribu
tion. They (hall eftimatc hereafter the value of all
the obje&sin requisition, and they (hall be paid for
to the vender out of the produce of the war .contri-.
bation above fixecj. '
(Signed) BUONAPARTE
SALICETTI.
LEYDEN, Mny 28.
From Arofterdam we learn, that in consequence
of the notification made by General Bournonville
to rhe Municipality, relative to the fending a gar
rison into Amfterdam,the Council of that city sent
> deputation to him, to requefl that he would not
impose upon them the neceflity of receivings gar
rison. But the General replied, by letter to the
Council, that the arrangement in question was the
indisputable effedt of a military plan, according to
which a line was to be formed from the Helder to
Dollaert, and that this would require the placing of
s garrison of 12 or 1400 men in Amsterdam.
ITALY, May 24.
General Buonaparte has Ordered an army of
25,000 men to penetrate into the Ecclefiaflical
State. Deputies from the Pope have, however,
already entered into a negociition for an armistice.
1 he proposals of the French General are the fame
kind with those which she Duke of Parma has
been compelled to accept. Buonaparte requires,
besides the Apollo of Belvidere, the Laocoon, and
•bther valuable statues, fifty pidlsres, at his own .
choice, and a contribution of fifty millions of liv
res, either ia ready money or silver plate. The lat
ter condition, it is expefled, will be moderated by
the mediation of the Spanish Ambassador at
'Rome, to a fmallerfum.
MILAN, May 18.
The inhabitants of this city aflembled on the
square in front oftfieCatliedral,tohear the patriotic
speeches of several orators. The Music of Milan
played the cherished tunes ps liberty ; Ca Ira, the
Marfeilloife and the Carmagnole. The people af
terwards fwoie to live free or die ; hatred to royal
ty. &c.
I was this'morning in the popular society. Dif
conrfes breathing a great deal of patriotism were
pronounced here ; they denounced a libel, which'
was said to have been published bj; the monks and
the r.obles with a view to deceive the people. In
another society rhey said that the arch cluke who
had thought fit to run away had feiit word that the
Emperor had made peace with the French, and
that he would soon return to brjng all those to re>a
fon who had dreamed of declaring themselves a free
people. All this does not discourage the patriots
of Milan ; on the contrary, it renders them fliU
- more vigilant. I fe«l inclined to hope, that they
will fyccced in their generous undertaking, and
that jhe satellites of despots will do best to make
a journey to Germany.
I (hall fend yotl, by thb next poff, the speech of
the' president of the society, and also a patriotic
{long which was handed to me.
The citadel has not surrendered yet ; but I be
lieve it wflP soon be* besieged and easily taken.
LONDON, June 14-
The pope, it is said, has quitted Rome. He
has taken the route ©f Naples.
An 'ipulent farmer, tenant of a Noble Lord
*bo rented nearly a thousand a year of the eilate
of the latter in SnfTcX, previous to the falling in of
a ie&fe of a frrialler farm adjoining his oWh, of the J
rent of eighty pounds, lately applied for the lease
of it, offering one hundred and thirty pounds, a
The terms were accepted, and he had the farm.
Soon after the original poffetTor applied for a re
newal, and had the fortification to hear it was dis
posed of: in vain be pleaded that his family had I
been in-pofTeflicn for nearly a. ccntury, and that c
the rents had been regularly paid—the new lease r
was signed, and could not be cancelled ; however, t
hisLordlhip told the man to call in a few days, and 1
he would think of other means of accommodating a
him, this he did, and was then informed, that, as t
I fomfe kind of recompence for his having loft his p
small farm, if he so chofc, he might have the lease 1
of the larger one, which was in the pqffemon of 1
the man who had taken the smaller one—the lease a
of which was nearly expired, The offer appeared !
of a magnitnde which at firft daggered the appli- a
cant, until he was farther told, that, with whate- 1
ver money he might be in want of, as neeeffary to t
so extenlive an undertaking, he (hotild be accom- t
r modated. The bargain was on these terms acced- .1
t ed to ; no doubt with gratitude on the part of the
tenant, and wot less heart-felt Satisfaction on that <
J of the noble landlord, who had thus an opportuni- 1
sty the next day, of informing the avaricious spe
culator, in turn, that the lease of his farm was also 1
. disposed of, and to the very man he had been so <
) adtive to deprive' of the means of procuring an ho- 1
nest subsistence. % •
f Sir Joseph Mawbey, and the Rev. James Lip- <
i trap, came up to receive the sentence of the court 1
e upon a convittion of mifcon'dudt apd corruption in
i their eharafter as mag;ftrates for the couuty of Sur- '
. rey. 1
■> Mr. Justice Afhhurft pronouueed the fentetjee,
which was, that Sir Joseph Mawbey be fined tool.
I and Mr. Liptrap 501. The money being paid in
s Court, they were both discharged. 1
J Andrew Robinson .Bowes, who was committed '
e for an assault upon Lady Strathm&re, and who ha» '
- been in prison eleven years, was brought up, and
e in confeqnence of the sign manual produced in
h Court, containing his majesty's most gracious par
don, was discharged upon his own recognizance.
t A singular instance of the hardness of the times
e occurred a very few days since—
n Fourpriefts of the order of Black Friars, took
il the following medicine, as an emetic and antidote
t to apoplexies, so frequent at this period :—
0 Two boiled fowls, with proper sauce ;
n Two roasted ducks, with green peas ; .
e Eight pounds of fre(h salmon, with a fufficient
quantity of lobiterand (hrimp fauqc :
n And four legs of lamb, with cauliflowers, &c.
£ After swallowing the whole dose, which operat
s ed violently, and working it off with copious li-
I, batifens of warm punch, they retired, much indif
i- posed ; but we are happy to hear, that they are
all perfedtly restored to health ; and have recom
il mended, in the most feeling words to their poor,
not to try the like powerful medicine, but content
1- themselves with the usual emetics, and work off
II their fkknefs with water gruel.
ir MILAN, May 9.
!-. The French troops continue toobfervethe drift -
eft discipline, and pay money for all they purc'nafc.
The/pirit of liberty makes daily rapid p'Ogrefs.—
The republican fetes continue to draw the people
of Lombardy from their torpor, and to excite po
e pular enthusiasm. On all fides we hear Austrian
e defpofitifm spoken againft,.and vows never to re
turn to it. The nobles, the priests, and the wo
it men are ever occupied in preparing means for the
it establishment of liberty, but the popular societies
- contribute the most efficacioufly to stir up thepeo
e pie to defend their rights, and to overturn royal
ie and ariftociatical despotism. The republican spirit
o is not confined to the capital, it spreads peaceably
o through the reft of Milan and Lombardy, Pavia,
)f Lody, Cremona and other towns, are eager to fol
low the example of Milan. Every thing (hews
that a revolntion will be rapid, if peace between
sf France and the Emperor be not concluded too fud
al denly arrest the progress of patiiotifm.
r, The reclamatians of phr popular fooietiqf and of
e. the Milanifeto the generafagainft the provifionary
ie government established by the Archduke befure his
is departure, and against the general Council and Mu
s, nicipality, have prevailed with the French commif
d fioner and Gen. Buonaparte to abolilh them—th'ey
•n have substituted in their place a Council of sixteen
v- members, taken from the eitizeas without aiftinc
t- tion of rank or birth, which is provisionally char
iy ged with the adminiflration, civil, political and e
sl conomical. The aimed for«e will be under the
orders of General D'Efpinoix, Commandant of the
place.
Ie The French have not yet raised any contribution
ic on the Milanese ; they have taken what they found
in in the public treasury, and the tity furnifhes fubfift
ie ence to the army.
f- The Council General before its suppression, put
il- in requisition fortheFreoch 12,000e11s of white
cloth, 500 ells of scarlet, 3000 ells of fine blue for
f- the officers, and 3000 ells of green for the dragoons;
re besides these article* the city is obliged to furnifh
:h> 20,000 shirts, 10,000 pair of llockings, 5000 pair
id of (hoes, aod 2000 hats,
n. PROCLAMATION,
10 IJfutd by General Buonaparte en the \6th.
Ie " A milled multitude, who have no real means
d of resistance, proceed in several communes to every
t- kind of excess* retufe to acknowledge'the republic,
:e and menace the army that has triumphed over so
ts many kings. This insanity is deserving of pity. It
11 will conduct the people to their deftruftion.
y " The General in Chief, faithful to the princi
d pies of the French Nation, which makes not war u
;e pon the people, is still defifous of leaving a door
open to repentance. But those, who after a delay
)f of 24 hours, do not lay down their arms, and take
ic a new oath of fidelity to the French republic, Jhall
betrcated as rebels,and their villages (hall be burnt.
:- The terrible example of Binafco ought to open their
eyes. The fame fate threatens every village and e
very town that (hall remain obstinately rebellious "
e June 17.
Joel Barlow, the celebrared literary champion
d of freedom, is appointed the American Minister to
e A'giers.
1
f Lajjy Sanitary patronizrsthc Long Wajle., like wl
Mr. Pitt's profufe of Gold ! ve:
c The Cavendishes, one and all, intend now to vote Sli
. against the war, when it is almoll too late.
June 18.
NEGOCIATION ivhb the POPE.
It now appears that the intended march of the
i French troops to Leghorn, was set alide, solely in
t consequence of an alteration of circnmftances, that
e rendered this naeafure unneceitary, which was, that
, the offers of hisholinefsto negotiate, being (tronjr
d ly backed hy the Court of Spain, had been finally
; agreed to. Gen. Buonaparte, it seems, previous •<*,
s to this, had ordered a column of 25,000 men to
s proceed to Rome. The terms proposed by the
i French General are, that hi# holin'ols (hall deliver qj
f ujj_the Apollo of Belvidere, the Laocoon groupe, J3l
e and fevpral other magnificent statues, with 50 paint- jCa
j Ings to be fele&ed by the French, besides paying
- a Contribution ofso millions of French livres in rea
dy money, or plate. This lad condition it was -j-,
o thought would be mitigated by the mediatiori of g C
1- the Spanish ambassador at Rome. In the mean f-o
I- .whilea cefiiftionofarms'has been,. agreed upon. jca
e The Pope, it is said made an application te the
t emperor for leave to reside at Vienna, tohich was (gc
i- rejeflad. _ j 7.
Most of the French cavalry in Italy, are mounted j
0 upon Spaniih horses, and number of Spaniards jB:
"o are among their armies. The arch-duke Ferdinand
>- has feat most of his efFeds to Vienna. He is (lill j
at Padua. At Pavia, and several other places in Bi
>. the Duchy of Milan, National Guards are establish ta
rt ed after the French mode. *•,'
n The French Generals in Piedmont have ordered
r- their troops to against the peafanty of that
country, who, having threatened to destroy the N
r, villas of the Nobility, obliged the latter to take re- hi
1. fuge at Turin.
n General Carteaux, who commands the left wing
of Keilcrman's army, has marched through the Oe- al
d noefe territory with 20,000 men, to reinforce Bu- n <
>» onapawe. Another division of the fame army has
d passed through Aofto towards Cotno.
"! ~ A
r " GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST. w
— ffc ta
:s PHILADE LPH lA, August to N
k c<
ARRIVED. 4 '
e Schooner Pomona, Gardner, Boston 8
Sally, Wade, St. John's 14 01
Sloop Sylvia, Macey, Nantucket 5
CLEARED. r
,t Brig Liberty, Dewar, St.Kitts
Schooner Little John, Kemp, Dittto J
Maria, Merchant, FredericJjfburgh '
Sifters, Jackson, Ditto
V .Sally, Williamfon, Currituck *
'• Sloop Nancy & Peggy, Tatem, Ditto q
f- Diana, Pearfon, Alexandria
re Arrived at the Fort. x fi
1 SfcipTabrus, Havannah 17 n
r , PROVIDENCE, August 13. u
it Capt. Whitney, who arrived here a few days
ff lince fiom Cayenne, on the 30th ult. spoke the
new fliip General Mifflin, out two days from Phi c .
ladelphia, bound to Gibraltar. The (hip crank,
V- btft all well. ■»
c . PORT of BALTIMORE, c
_ August 16.
; e Arrived—Schooner Union, Rose, 16 days from
a _ Petit Guave : left there schooner Beaufort, Con v
in way, of Baltimore ; fchooser Brothers, Bradifh,
». of ditto; brig Charlotte, Cufhing, of Philadel I
5" P hia " . . (
le Schooner William, Murphy, 17 days from Do
cs minique : lefr there schooner Polly of Philadelphia, t
D _ o fail next day.
al ® r 'S Comiperce, Isaacs, IO weeks from Leg- g
; t horn : lat. 30, long. 70, spoke (loop A&ive, 1
|y Fisher, from , bound to Fort-Dauphin,
a out 7 days, all well; a few days after spoke brig c
j. Haddock, from St. bound to New- h
York. g
, n Schooner Edward, Penrice, 24 days from Su
rinam : Captain P. failed in company with about '
thirty American vessels, the brig Paramarabo, of
0 f Baltimore, was the only one recolle&ed. j
r y Capt. Gorfuch, of the schooner Peggy, left at
,j a Jaquemel, fehooner Eagle, Bomberry, of Balti- I
j, more; Rachel, Pannel, of ditto; (hip Mary, Pat- b
f. ton, Philadelphia ; fch'r Hope, , Charleston ;
,y Tchooner Adeline, Stanley, of Baltimore, failed
» n for the Bite :—lat. 24, spoke a (loop bound from
c . Port-au-Prince to Philadelphin, all hands sick. a
r . Capt. Isaacs, of the brig Commerce, fays, that f
e . it was currently reported at Leghorn, and general- t
[, e ly believed, that a peace had been concluded be- .
tween the French Republic and the Pope ; that
the Pope was to pay them four millioHs sterling,
j n and two of the principal paintings in St. Peter's f
Church—that the King of Naples had made pre- r
(j. parations to march, in person, at the head of his f
army against the French, but that he had thought
„ t better of it, and resolved to stay at home, and afi r
te on the defenlive—Capt. Isaacs left Mr. Donaldfon ]
at Leghorn, waiting for the arrival of the money 1
~ tor tUe ransom of Americans in Algiers.—Wag
(h brought to bjj an Algerine galley, in the mo Ah of t
,; r the Straights, and detained two hours, but per- , ,
mitted to proceed. j
NEW-YORK, August 19.
ns Capt. Drummond of the (hip Nonpareil, which
r y arrived here yellerday from Hull, in 81 days, in- 1
c forms that on the i6rh inft. in lat. 40, 10, long. '
f G 70, spoke the schooner George, of Old Yoik,Maf- '
j t fichufffHs from Tortola, bound to Boston, the cap- j
tain of which informed him, tlir-t in lat. he
had taken up tWe crew off the wreck of tha»fchoon
n. er Independence, ef Baltimore, capt. Cuftman.—
or The schooner had been upfct 5 days before the
3 y Georee fell in witl[ her. All hands were saved ;
but being under a frefh breeze, Capt. D. could
a |] not obtain any further particulars.
it. August 3-, in lat. '43, 41, long. 54, 43, spoke [
»j r the (hip Montezuma, Captain Howard of Kenne
e. beck, ijound to Liverpool—all well.
" August 8, in lat. 42, 33,' long. 58, 30, spoke I
the (hip Light Horse, capt. Renfelaer, of New- '
on York, from Bristol bound to Philadelphia, out 36
to days—all wall.
Capt. Drummsnd, at hi* departure from Hull,
- ' ///
e which was on the 17th June, left th« following
vefTeh there, viz.
e Ship Severn, Farley, New York, loading for
New-York
Peggy, Bunee, do. do.
Adventure, Swain,- do. do.
e Rebecca, Curnan, Peterfburgh, loading for
n Baltimore
t Prudence, Mille-, Philadelphia, do.
t Swift, I■ , New-York, loading for
Philadelphia.
7 ■ —
IS faffing. rin a brig from 'Jamaica, d feui days ftnet, fimurrd
0 US with thefMoivtnglifl of jf/Hcritil) wjfcls taken and carried
e into Kingston, 'Jamaica, by llritijbJbipS of "war.
Schooner Voluptas, Hall, from Gonaives to Platform,
!l j Oliver Thompson, owner,/ Baltimore; cargo confining of
J 3l,ocSolb. coffee,3oobis. flour, 100 bis.beef, j6po dollars.
I Capturad by the Severn, December 1795 ; condemned on
„ the 17th May, 1796 ; was bailed for 7501 failed April
the >6th, for Baltimore.
January-22, 1796. Schooner Swallow, Stubbs, James
Trifail owner, Boilon, from Cape-Francois to Boston, car- '
>F go 30 hds. 19 bis. sugar, ] 7,000ib. coffee, 31 "hides, a bis.
n , pocoa, 1 tierce molasses, 1 package c0tt0n,5313 dollars ;
by the Argonaut—Condemned.
lc ! 10. Schr. Paragon, Bal!nrd, Moses Miers owner, Nor
folk ; fnhn Arkein St. Domingo, to Noifolk, cargo
, Sooolb. coffee, taken by do. condemned: was bailed for
j 7Jol. failed in March for Norfolk.
:d j Feb Schr. Adelaide, Stanley, Oliver Thomson owner,
] s j Baltimore, from Jacotnel to Kingston and Aux-Cayes 5
j ' cargo 8,3001b. coffee, condemned ; was bailed for
.. | failed in Mai ch for Baltimore.
Feb. Schr. Aflive, Scomton, Oliver Thomson owner,
in Baltimore, from Baltimore to Jacomel; cargo dry goods 5
1- taken by ditto—condemned.
Feb. Schr. Fortitude, R. Rofs,owner,from Leogane to
•d Au . x " Ca y e3 5 cargo, coffee, taken by ditto—condemned.
Bailed for 7001. failed April 26, for Charleston
3 March 10. Brig Dolly, Polding, Stiggs Folks, owner,
ie New-York, from Curacoa to t*few-"York; cargo, 4000
C- hides, 24 bags coffee, 19 bales cotton, taken by do.
March 13. Ship fndoftan, Marmaduke Wyvill, J. J. f
Boireau,owner, Baltimore, from Aux-Cayesto Baltimore;
cargo 12,0001b. sugar, 18,ooolb ceffee. Bailed by Lindo
e and Sons, but would not let the captain take possession,
1- nor any other pcrfun take polleflimi in his place.
as March 17. Ship Regulator, Deland, Gafpus C. Schut,
owner, Charleston, (S. C.) from Aux-Cayesto Charleston;
cargo, 37,0001b. coffee, 15,0001b. cotton, taken by do.
- Arrived in Anato Bay on the 23d March, with 3 1-2 feet
water in her hold ; two tons coffee in bags wet, not yet
, taken out.
MaichiS. Schr, Eagle, Towles, Moses Miers owner,
Norfolk, from AuxyCayes to Norfolk ; cargo, /3,0001b.
coffee, taken by do. Bailed for 5251. failed for Norfolk
2d May. -
g The four preceding vessels were condemned on the 4th
[ 4 of J u 'y-
March 30. Sloop Eliftia, Cottrel, Ail a Ofmore owner,
Middletown, ConnedHcut, from Anato Bay, to St. Jago,
ts Cuba, four negroes and 1000 dollars, talten by the Cormo
rant ; had no clearance, condemned, Ofmore bought her
rh again '
> April 6th. Schr. Charlotte, RamdiH, George Mali#.
, peace owner, Boston, from Leogane to Bollon ; c;rgo
33,0001b. coffee, 20 bis. sugar, taken by the Leviathan.
Condemned 4th July.
,a 7th. Brig Sally, Rice, Seth Wilmore owner, Boston ;
\from Leogane to Boston, cargo sugar, coffee, cotton and *_
17 molasses ; taken at L*ogane, cargo taken out, brig given
up to Captain at Pon-au-Prince.
y s 21ft. Schr. Willian Wafs, John Panvean owner, Bos
ton» ro p* Cape Nichola Mole, to Port-au-Prince ; cargo
01 provisions, taken by the Ipnig nia; given up after the
'' cargo was much damaged—failed for Boston May 26..
k, May 6. Schr. Richard, Pratt, John Newfiw. and Sled
well ownerj, New-Yoik, from'Aux-Cayes to New-York ;
cargo 51 hds. molasses, 24 bis. sugar, taken by the Samp.
son.
m May 6. Sloop Friendship, Ofborn, Garrick, Weftfalt,
owner, New-York, from New-York to Gonaives ; car-o
n wine and dry goods, 61
"h* May 6. Ship Blenham, Baird, Oliver Thomson, owner,
el Baltimore; condemned the 4th July.
17. Sloop Polly, Keen, Willkm Trenholm, owner,
|q _ Charleston, S. E. from Jacomel to Charleston S. G. cargo,
33 bags coffee, 30 boxes soap, 80 bis. pork,and dry goods,
,a > taken by the Argonaut.
17. Ship Crefar, Hampton, was seized for having, dry
g. goods on Board, although he endeavoured to enter them at
te, the Custom House for exportation, and condemned.
j n June 10 Schr. Margaritta, Clark, Bilious Ward Of
. ' born owner, New-York, from Jacomel to New-York ;
'£ cargo, 45,0001b. coffee, sooclb cotton, 5 cailks wine, 18
w* bis. sugar, 500 hides,soo dollars, taken by the /-vgon.^ut,
given up the 2eth June.
Iu- '°* Schr. Lion, Doyle, Ferdinand Oourdon, owner,
ut Philadalphia, from Aux-Cayes to Philadelphia ; cargo
72 hhds sugar, 30 tierces ditto, 29 barrels ditto, 36
barrels coffee, 6 bales cotton, 1,400 dollars ; taken by
ditto.
a * 10. fteflor, Mold, Ferdinand Gourdon, owner,
ti- New-'V ork, went to Aux-Cayes trading ; having two
it- barrels of shot on board, was seized and condemned ;
; the captain bought the schooner again.
Ed 10. Brig Friendship, Smith, of Boston ; seized for
, m having 41 pipes of Madeira on board, though she had
been to several English ports to windward, and at her
arrival the captain mentioned it to the officer of the v
iat fort at Port-Royal what he had on board; was seized
al- the next morrtin?.
>«• a
iat PROVIDENCE, August 13.
'?• The fiequent ialtances which occur of barns,
1 a filled with new mown hay, beinjr struck with light-
n '"g> ought to serve as a caution against taking
j ,s fhclter in them during a thunder ftorra.
Ray Greene, Efq of Eaft-Greenwi£h, is in do
mination as a candidate at the enfifng ele<Sion of
Representatives in place of Francis
Malbene, Esq. who declines.
a ® David Howell, Esq. fat out for Boston on Sa
turday lait, from thence to proceed for Halifax on
the business ot his appointment, as commiflioner
for fettling the eastern boundary of the United
States.
ich w FOR SALE,
in- COFFEE, in hhds. bbls. & bags^
ig. COTTON, of Qfmerara, and > entitled to drawback
5 SOAL-LEATHER )
a _ Also,
P' BOSTON BEEF, and Mould and Dipt CANDLES.
he Apply to, ISAAC HARVEY, Jun.
:>n " No. 5 sou.th Water-street.
—— 3 mo. 20. wr
j. Wants-Employment,
llld T N a g ent eel family, refldent in town or country,' a
A French lady lately arrived in this city. She has re
>ke ce ' Tec ' a g°°d education and can be well recommend
ed. She wishes to undertake the tuition of children,
ne " and will teach them to read, write, and fprak the
French language, in a short time, by principles simple,
>ke but very intelligible. She will also iitftruil them in
rw- history, mythologie, &c. and will be careful in payinj
ftridl attention to their morals ; her terms will be vcr/
moderate. Apply at No. I'Sr Lombard-Street, Phiia
.. ladelpbia.
ul ' August so. iot d.. Lands ot the United States 1
Treasury Department,
. B .' 179<5 *
J Public Notice is hereby given,
TN pursuance of an a& of Congrds passed on the iß{h
J. day of May, 1796, entitled " an a& providing "for
the sale of the Lands of the United States, in the territory
north-weft of the river Ohio, and above " the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the Quarter Townlhips of land
deicrihed in the annexed schedule, lying in the feyen rang
es ot townlhips whieh were surveyed in pursuance of an
ordinance of Congress, pa fled on the twentieth day of
May, in the year one thousand fevefi hundred and eighty
five, will be exposed for sale at PUBLIC VENDUE, at
the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe in Philadelphia, on the 4th
day of January next, and thenceforward from day today,
until the tenth day of February ensuing, unless the said
.quarter townships (hall be sooner fold, in the manner and
on the terres and conditions hereinafter mentioned : viz.
ift. The said quarter townships shall be fold to the
.highest bidder, but no sale can be made for less than two
dollars per acre of the quantity of land contained in such
quarter towrfhip.
2d. The highest bidder as before mentioned, must de*
posit a* the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur-
Chafe money, in the hands of the Treafurerof the United
States, which will be fwrfeitedif a moiety of the fumbid,
including the said twentieth part, (hall notb« paid within
thirty days from the time of sale.
3d. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchafe-mo
fiey in the manner befor*mentioned, the purchaler will
be entitled to one year's credit for the remaining moiety ;
and (hall receive a certificate describing the quart«r town
(hip purchased, and declaring the sum paid on account,
the balance due, the time when such balance
becomes payable, arsl that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not then
paid ; but if the said balance (hall.be duly discharged, by
paying the fam£ to the Treasurer of the United States,
the-purchaser or his aflignee or other legal reprefentitive,
shall be entitled to a patent for the (aid land, on his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
endorsed upon the certificate. But if any purchaser fliall
make payment of the whole of the purchase-money at the
time when the payment of the firft moiety is directed to
be made, he will be entitled to a deduction of ten per
centum on the part-for which a. credit is authorized to be
given ; and his patent fliall be immediately iflued.
GIVEN under my hand at Philadelphia, the day
and year abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of (he Treasury.
SCHEDULE
Of Quarter-Townships to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
fuancc of the 6th fe&ion of an a& of Congress paiTed on
the 13th day of May, 1796.
k. • i
.0 a.
• —
52 ® c
a. .9- U c
I=l 1 S s
« J J , 12
o*< H "
£ 4 S 3-S
* 9. | 3
2 South East 5120 ' ' "
North East 5120
South Wet 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
5 5 South East 5120
No'th East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
— 20,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5120-
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
9 South East 512©
North East 5 120
South Weft j 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
11 South East 5120
.North East 5120
j South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
4. 4 South East j 120
North East 5120 sot
South Weft Cl2O t ' ll
North Weft ri 2o
o t" £
20,480 (V
6 South East 5120 ~
North East 5120
South Weft 512 C) j
North Well 5120 | ' j "T"
20,480 *
8 South East swo tw
North'Eaft c 120 ' a '
South Weft 5120 tor
North Weft jiao
20,480
10 South East 5120
North East 5120
SonthWeft 5,20
NorA Weft 5120
20,480
12 South East 5120
North East 5 120
South Weft 5120
North Weit 5120
20,480
3 |£outh East 4602
North East 4654
South Weft 5120 3k
North Weft. 5120
' 19,496 del
■> 5 South East 5120 no
North East 5* 20
South Weft 5120 %
Worth Weft 5120
20,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480 (
9 South East 5120
6 North East 5120
/ South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120 j
l — 20,480 68
—
- . o
,'g. t
. <= reg
« -- I
£ E" 1 - s
Bth • | t, Z c «
for 6 H I < I "
:ory 2 g, JZ S
>of d
and C-.
5 II Smith East 51 20'
North East 512 c'
lt y- South Weft 5120:
, at North Weft 5120;
4th 20,480
' 3 7: 13 South East 5120
Notth East J 120
viz. South Weft 5120
the North Weft 51 20
two 20,480
uc ' l 6 4 South East 4630
jg. North East 4620
iur- South Waft 5120
ited North-Weft 5120
bi s- 19,490
6 South East 4730
tie- ' North East 47 *5i
will South Weft 5 120
ty ; North Weft 5 120
19,685
in ' 8 South East 5120
North East 5 120
ken South Weft 5 120
by iNorth Weft 5120
£es ' | 20480 ,
10 South East 5 120
ice, North Eaft.sl2o
lall South Weft 5 120
the North Welt 5 120
to I 20,480
12 South East j 120
North Eaftsi2o
lay south Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,4 80
14 South East 5120
North East 5 120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
- 7 3 South East 5 120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
5 South East j 120
North East 120
South Weft 20
. North Weft 5 120)
'. 20,480
—■ 7 South East 5 120 ,
North East 5 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
9 South East 5 120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 9 I2Q |
20,480
II South East 512Q 1
North East 5 120
South Weft 5 120
■ North Weft j 120 \ I
20,480 '
13 South Eaftji2o
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
—20,480
15 South East 5120
North East 5 126
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
NOpTE.
eHE quantities of Lands in the fevers] townships he
for mentioned, arc cxck'five of the Sea.oils referveri by
the United States. "The aggregate quantities in the seve
ral townships, kave been ascertained by adual survey ; hot
(he quantities in the quarter tewnlhips, have teen no
otherwise afccr-ained than by calculation.
VV alhiiigton Canal Lottery,
no. r.
WHEREAS tj\e State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to Taile twenty-fix thousand,
twoliundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
« a Canal through the City of Wafliington, from th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Ha^uour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz •-1 Prize of »0,000 dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn")
Tickets, each j • s ' ooo 35^000
6 ditto / 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 2,000
5 j ditto 50 a>7JO
5750 ditto II 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,150
585° Prizes, JTSfiOo
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize,
17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
gjp The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aft fbr tke punfiual payment el
the prizes. 1 J
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, li soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prize, as are not demanded in fix months after th.
drawing ls finifoed, fliall be confidercd as relinquished for
th* kenefjt of ihe Caaal, and appropriated accordingly
(Signed j NO! LEY YOUNG
DANIEL CARROLL,
lewis deblois,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. m.duncanson
THOMAS LAW, '
r 0.. JAMES BARRY.
City of WaOimgtOß, Feb. ij.
A R I S T O^TRXcTY
An EPIC POEM, '
0127 bc had at B - Davi»-« Book-Store No
68 Aug. rj §6t
| Treasury of the United States.
| JLTCjTICE is hereby given to all periods w 10 are or
may be Creditors of the United Srites, for any f'.iins
of the Funded Dibt, or Stoci, beiring a present interefl of fix
per centpn tier annum. .
i ft, That pursuant to an Afi of Congreft passed on the
28th day of April, 1796, intitlcdan ait in addition to an
1(3, intituled " An aift making fuitber prevision for the
support of public credit, and for the redemption at the
public debt," the faiddebt or flock will be reimbuncdand
paid in manner following, to wit. " Firfl, by dividends
- — "to be made on the last days of March, June and Septejn
" bcr for the present year, and from the year one thousand
" seven hacdrod and ninetv-feven, to the year one thon
" land eight hundred & eighteen ini'lufive, at' the rate of
" one ami one half per centum upon the original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lafl day -of
" December for the present year. »»d from the year one
" rhbbfar.d seven hundred ar.d r.inety-feven, to the yeaj
f oue thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at
" the rate oi' three and one half per centum upon the ori
" ginal capital ;and ?7 a dividend to be ma e o£ the lat!
" dayof December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then a te
" quate, according to the conuad, for the final redemp
" tion of t'a : laid ftoclc."
sd. All diftinetion between payments on account of
Intcreji and Principal being thus abolilhed by the eflablifh
ment of the permanent rule of reimburfemer.t above de- ,
scribed, it has become neceflary to vary accujdingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
' is eftablilbedfor all powers of attorney which may be (
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN Br THESE -PRESENTS, that 1
I of in 1
do make t conjlitute and appoint
tf my true and laivful At- ,
and in try rtarrre, to receive the dividends lub'tcb are .
cr shall be payable according to latv t on thg (here describing the
flock) flanding in my name in the books of (here defcrlbing the
bocks of the Treasury or the Contmiflioner of Loans,
, where the flock is credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of 1
attorney is to continue) with poiuer also an attorney or attor
nies under him, for tfjat purpose to male andfubjlitute> and to do all
lawful acts requiftefor ejfecibig the hereby ratifying and i
confirming all that myfaid Attorney 6r hisfubfityte,fhall laivful- ! _
ly do, by virtue hereof.
In IVitnefs hereof t I have hereunto fit my Hand and Seal the !
day of in the year "
Seeled and Delivered
1 in
BE IT KTVOH'N, that on the day of
lefre meperfonally came 11
wit bin named and acknowledged the aGove letter of attorney to he
bis aci and deed. 2
In tcftimorry whereof 1 have hereunto set my Hand and affix- °
ed Seal the day and year la ft a foref aid. n
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to dire&ions
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMTJEI, MEREDITH, »
2"rcafurer of Vje United States. j?'
July 23. w&st 17. ! r
a J«
Spanijh Treaty Ratified. c
THIS DAY, Publlflied by J. ORMROD, No. 41, h
Chesnut-Str'"eeTj in a handsome pamhlet. a
(Puce 12 and 1-2 Cents.) c;
A TREATY »f FRIENDSHIP, LIMITS & tl
NAVIGATION,
BETWEEN the United States of America, and his
Catholic Majesty—with the Preftdent's Proclamation J'
announcing its ratification. 0
ORMROD has lately Publilhed the British and Al-
gerlne Treatiei, which match in iize with the above.
Also, Burke's celebrated letter to the Duke of Bed
ford, and Wharton's-anlwer to Pricftlcy. I
August 13. 4 t§mw&f.
Philip Nicklin 8c Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
Souchong .
Hyron Skin )
Young Hyson S- FRESH TEAS g
Hyson and \ a
Imperial ' p
Yellow Nankeens c
China Ware, afiorted in Boxes and Cherts T
Quiakfilver
Bandanna Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
cnefts 1 1
London Market MADEIRA WINE J
London particular Mn pipes, hoglheads, & *
j quarter calks
TenerifFe Wine in pipes and hoglkeads
Sugar Czady by the Box
Sail Canvas No. i a 8
Lead in (heets
3 Calks of Cutlery afiarted „
f A ftw cheftsof Manchelter afTorted thick- <'
lets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
t 3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
i Tierces Virginia Snake-root. ir
Nails aflbrted in calks
JuJy 18
' mw&f ix
~ —- - . --— ; tl
d Samuel Richardet,
i R. E m PI T CTF V LI , jY informs 'he Gentlemen -
tavcdm" as this day opened the CITY
city ofpM^I I^ CHANTS C ° FF EE H9USE inthc A
rhe Subscription Room will be furnillicd with all the a '
55?3 safe t.
will at all times be procured at the bar. er
the cWft C of I Win'! eP c' <1 comm °d"ed with
- —-<» z
lt -
hours moil convenient to n P, P '"
. pr
' thfum,filed, aod ec
1 requifitc. eanlinefs, and every other eu
« eiefute the cemiuanji ""r" t " :ha PPy t0 receive, and 'h
r ' ar ? e ; andwt t ; 8 fX n iV nd Pubi:,; «
himfelf that nothing ,t favours, he pledgee r
fcrvc that patro^ge^ahl^ul l^ 'pre- as '
■ Uigly i'lonorcd. ' ha '" be en lo difiinguilh- fr
Philadelphia, April 19. ♦ (J.
• eo
l ? or faie by the fubicribers, 2
*N PfcNN-STREET rat
is d q r er v* a H
300 ; Chini ' C ° C &'all teaMtts of 42 =
400 pieces Bandanoes. I
January 30 ] W'Mgs & Francis.
3taw.
CiH cf Wafhinjrton.
z SCHEME of the LOTTERY, \c.
FOR THE IV.PPXWfMc.vr OF TUi
FEDERAL CITY.
the A r > 20,00 c doli.irs, & f
the dwelling-houfc, j cash 30,020, ire J
t jj e I ditto i-.oao & cafw 25,000 40,000
in j l ditto 15,000 & rash 15,000 50,0 1
I( j s 1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 "20,000
m . 1 ditto 5,000 &. Cifh 5,000 10,00.
,na 1 ditto 5,000 & cath 5,000 ld t uou
in- 1 cash prize of 10,00 a
of » do. 5,006 each, are • 10,000
al. 10 do. 1,000 - . 10,1 «'m.
of 20 do. 500 - - 10,000
ne OO do. 100 - . xo,ooo
:aj 2i-JO do. 50 10,000
it 400 do. 25 - 10,00 a
r> 1,000 do. 20 - 10,000
al - 15,0:30 do. 10 , ts0^)00
in-
e " 16,739 Prizes.
P" Blanks.
5Q,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
le~ r- ~ 1 "—
he 3 - To favour those who may take a quantity
lie Ticket,.the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the LASTdrawii
tipket, and the 30,qp0the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either mor •
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received fur
any number not left than 30 tickets. ■
in 1 This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of thepri
vate buildings to be creeled in the City of Washington—
•t _ Two beautiful deQgns are already feleAed for the entire
■e f r ° nt 3on two the public fquafes ; from these
le ' it ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner building
le as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
s them, when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, ii'
y the manner described in thie scheme for the Hotel Letter;
j{ A nctt deduction of five per cent, will be m.\de to defray
_ th s necessary expenfts of printing, &c. and the furphu
will be made a part of the fund intended for the Nations
:J University, to be ereok'd within the city of Walhington.
l_ ; Ihe Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
1 fold off.-—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
a ft er it is finifhad ; and any. prizes for which fortunate
numbets ate not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be confidercd as given towards
the funti for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the elding of the draw
ing, and to take op the bonds given as security.
The real fecurihes given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President aud two Directors of the Baak
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
s the late Commissioners as lifted in tie management of the
Hotel Lottery are requeued to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public; a fufiicieut num
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jects may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the difierent parts of the
Continent as well as from where the tickets
, have been lent, for sale, the public afe allured that the
drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necelTary to insure a fafe difpotal of
' th« tickets, has rendered the ihorr lalpeaGcu indispensable, 4
SAMUEL BLODGET.
s »§. Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ;of
, James Weft & Co. Baltimpre; of Reter Gilman, Boston;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells,
Cooper's Ferry. c 0
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties aud diltritfl of
SoVTHWARK;
Publifiied, aud fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High street,
( Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 26 inches square, and ha 6 been en
graved by one of the f.rlt artists in the city, from a late
and accurate survey. Pur chafers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
city, fts population, trade, government, &c.
July_£9 tu hi tf
a Diftridt of Pwunfylvania :to wit:
BE it remembered, that on the sth day of Augui, in
the twentietl year of the independence of the Unit
. States of America, William Cobbett, of the faii
diftriil, hath depefited in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words
following: to wit.
" The life and adventures of Peter Porcupine ; with a
" full and fair account of all his authoring tranfadlions:
" being a sure and infallible guide for all enterprifinj
" young men who wifli to make a fortune by writing
" pamphlets; by Peter Porcupine himfelf.
" Now, you lying varlets, you shall fee how a plain
" tale will put you down." Shakespeare.
in conformity to the a A of the Congress of th« United
States, entitled " an aift for the encouragement of learn
ing, hy securing the copies of maps, charts and hooks to
the authors and proprietors, during the time» tfietMo
mentioned. Samuel Caldwell.
Clerk ef the DiftriS of Pennsylvania.
, Aug. 8 IM4W
Now Publijbing by the Printer,
; At No. 3, Laetitia Court, delivering to Subfcribm,
and to be had at the different Book-Stores in this City,
: Berrirnan & Co's
CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
1 The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the Old and Naw
Tcftaments asd the Apocrypha, with marginal notes wicTrc
crences. An Index ;or an account of the mod remarkable
paOagcsin the old and new Testament, poiniing to the places
wherein they happened, and to the places of scripture where
in they are recorded.—A Table .of 'lime.—Tables of scrip
ture mcalures, weights and coins ; with an appendix, contain
ing the method of calculating its measures ©f surfaces
hitherto wanting in Treatjcs on this fubjed. A Table of OjjiccJ
and Conditions of nyn.
CONDITIONS
1. Thefizeof this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO,
printed on a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par
ticularly (or it, It will be publiihed in Numbers, notto ex
ceed 30, one of which will be delivered weekly to fubferib
eis, ai a quarter of a dollar. Thole 'üblcribtrs who prefer
receiving ihe work complete, wili be attended,to by Ggnifying
the fame on any of the fubferiptiou papers 19. rhe Bookllore*
in this city.
2» There will be an advauce in the price, on {uWcribiu;
after the firft of August 1 ext.
3 In the courfeof the Work will be givesi an elegau-
Frontifpiece—Froni an Engraving of the celebrated arti4,
Gr icnion.
Berriman & Co. gratefully acknowledge the very liber* -
encouragement they have met with; and havereafonto believe
that the execution of their edition will anlwer every expert
tat ion, and fpeok its own. praise*.
May 26 |ovee*'
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNP,
—No. 119 —
C H E SS UT-ST R E E T.
[Price Eight Doikr. per Annum.]