#a?ette of the tUnttelS States, Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
Numbrx 1332.3
For Boston,
Tie lri s NEPT UN E,
James Town, Mailer, 6
Lying at Wilcocks's wharf, will fail
with all convenieat speed—For freight or paflage apply to
the maftcr on board, or No. 76, North Front Street. ]
Dec. 13. $s'-
For Sale by Public Audtion,
jit the Coffee-Houfe, on Saturday the fjib inft. al 6 j l( ,j
o'clock, in the evening, o ' c
The SNOW WILLIAM,
tr- SAMUEL RINKER, Maste*. j
Vv> f yln' r at Bethell and Coopers
f wharf—hurthen one hundred and
_ "eighty tons, or thereabouts, is fup
p®f?d to carry 3000 barrels : She is a good
veflel, and may be sent to sea at a small expence,
having been completely fitted last voyage. Inven-
fnry maybe seen, by applying to Captain Rioker
on board, or at the counting honfe of the fubfcri
l-iers. FOOTMAN «c Co. Auctioneers. In
December 12.
For Sale,
The Ship ADELAIDE,
jwg&vl-" Of Nero Tori. \\
Lying at the fubferiber'. wharf—bur- pi,
£ ato tons, Ihe is a (lout well built
J veifel, was built by the day for a Houfc —
in New-York,under the infpcftion of a oeefon concerned
in her—hasbeen only to London andCharler
ron and fails fader than any vessel out of the port of New
York.—Apply to < C
F WILLIAM BELL. J,
Who has received by the said (hip from Chariefton— c
aq Tierces frefli Rice, and a few cifks of Ground Nuts. »
Dec. 6. $"•
For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nanct, I!
Cuthbert Riggs, matter. \
vvill fail with all convenient speed. For C
freight or paflage apply to
William Bell ; A
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottor ~ well aflbrted
3 Bales Ivifh Fiannels, and 2 boxes Linens
15 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine i Indigo. Rnflia Matts.
Allb,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &e.
November 11. 1796, mwftf
FOR S ALE,
7 HB SHIP MARY,
SAMUEL PARKER, Mastir,
Two hnndred ton. burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, she will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above,
Ofloher si. rt
For Charter,
EUEKELT,
i&Mfflr Ayris STOCKLty, Matter.
tJSjg'S'J An excellent live-oak and cedar built
kjlljSSpifhip, of about 3000 barrels burthen.—Ap-
V 7 J e Jf e & Robert Wain.
Ko«- • 1 J
For Sale, or Gharter,
The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Matter,'
Burthen i°s 47-95 [ ° n » rc B itltr ' I l ? u ' !,t
Philadelphia in the year 1792, ot live oak
aid red and was Iheathed 13 months ago, (he
has just had a compleat out-fit, and miy be sent to sea
at a very trifling expenre.
For terms apply to
pbilip Nicklin isf Co.
Irho have for sale on board said vessel,
57 calks of line yellow paint.
q boxes and 12 bundles of writing slates.
1 box ink ftandi and rote prtffes.
14' bales of fail .canvass.
And onkkan t
H,CS.d.? TEAS
SS?S~. M
vo tubs Qui^kfilver.
•. Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chitts Manchetter goodswel! aflorted in Cor
duroys, thickftls, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, ic.
- boxes hlackfewnnv'filk.
i»o crates Queens ware well afiorted.
10 tons (heet lead.
K«i> aflbrted, flat and Ibarp poults.
"London Particular, 1 Madeira Wine in pipei
London Market, f md hoglheads.
New-York Market, J
4 o «p« »»<! Teneriffe wine.
g tierces Sn.-.ke Root.
330 logs Mahogany. tth&ftf
Nov 7. —
Muran'ce Company of North-America.
THF STOCKHOLDERS in this compapy are desired
» .«take not ce that the second Tuesday in JasiuarT, berrg
the totli da" of the month) i, the day fixed by charter for
if twenty-five Dire«ors for the enfumg year.
will be held a. their oflice, and commence
" " The the' bye-laws of the Oorporatiop will be
fnV,iu<d to their Wry
tthioj.
X/«e. n
FOR SALE,
A PLAN I'AT I ON,
t EOTT i» miles from this City, situate in Ahington
/'V Towftlhip, MowtgomeVy-Connty ; containing 70
%7, a new stone houfc,two I'orics high, 1 room, on e
,: oor ,( ire places in each, a ftose kitchen and tton. Ipri.'g
„v.:ran excellent fprirg of water, a barn, ftajle
rv << Ac. A laigo apple orchard, and a vauotj
•r* ood m " dow ,v v l "■
. wood fufiicient for fire, and fencing the place
: K b*A the .ft of April »e*.
1 j, y wi» be taken in exchange, «t No. 37,
"■X't'ii» -eyMwiC* '3. 1 79 6 - ttf,f
THURSDAT EVENING, DECEMBER 15, 1796.
For Sale,
By the SuMcribers—la PENN-STREET, A
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Ea^le.
WILLI N'GS & FRANCIS. A
Nov, 30
Bank of North America. , cj
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified tint an
eleil inn for twelve tlircaon tor the cnf«vrg year will be .
held at the Bank on Monday the 9th or January at ten
o'clock. *•
RICHARD WELLS, Cefiiief.
Dec. 6. _
For Sale, a-
By Jehu. HollingCworth, & Co.
IS hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof, A
5 Barrels bell Indigo, aad,
A few thousand bUshels of Turk s lfland fait#
oa. 17. d -
Jult Arrived,
In the (hip Dispatch, Captain Morton, from Havre
de-Grace, and for faie by
Isaac Snowden, j«n, No. 141,
SOUTH SECOND STREET,
An invoice of Gloves of various kinds, Men's V
White Silk Ilofe, Black and White Laces, and a few
j pieces of Bljck. Silk.
1 December 2. ft xv*
[ Imported in the tate arrh'ih from Europe and the
IVeJi'lndies y
Holland Gin, in pipes
1 Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
1 Martinique MolalT.s, in hogsheads
Choice old Lisbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-calks
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-cJfts
I Malmfev Madeira Win*, in pipes and quarter-calks
I Teneriffe Wine, in pipes
I Ruflia & Flemish Sheeting and Ravens Duek, in cases
I Window Giafs, 3 by to, in bctee
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in calks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Sa«'s, in boxes
Also, en hand, J,
I A few chells of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; Afiafca
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of Co.Taes,
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Mufltn Handkrr-
I chiefs, md a complete alTortment of 5-4 and 6-4
1 Bjulting Cloths. c
For Sale by
Pragers Isf Co.
October 10 diwm&thim
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 168, HIGH-STREET.
Has torSSab, Wtiolf-sals and Retail,
MADEIRA WINE, of ift quality,
I Old Shrrry, Lisbon, and Port Wines,
I Cegnoc Brandy, '
Jamaica Spirits 1
I Wine bitters and
Claret iH cases.
I Also fcr sale,
A few barrels of excellent Be: f.
I December 7. dx
~~ For Sale,
■ \By, J. WARDER, PARKER Is? Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
I Confiding of different sizes, from 11 inch cables down
j to rope of a inches, ot different lengths: Imported in
" the fliip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept.--7- dtf
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
M SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
a j Has received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and striped Spanilh Swanfdown
Clouded Erminats and Moleficins
1 Striped do. and do.
I Figured Manillas
I Scarlet figured Erm:nct«
j Printed Ploririetts
I Do. Caflinets and Caftimtrei
I Superfine printed Quiltings, newest patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
j A large and general aifortnuent of Dry
Goods,
I Suitable to the present and approaching season,
I November j.
] Old London particular Madeira Wine,
r- Landing from on board the barque Eagle, Capt. Bates.
c . and for sale by ROBERT ANDREWS,
I No. 86, Seuth Wharves.
November 19. tedtf
Cheap French China.
,j I THE fubferiber' finding it impossible to supply their
(lore with any more China from France, the prices
1 being too immoderate in the manufa&ories, give no-
I tice that t'ney will fell a' prime colt the remaining
I (lack on hand, conlifling of
1 Dcfiert Setts,
;f -Tea-Table Setts
I Separate Cups and Saucers
a. I Groupes and Figure.
Ed 1 Alabaster Vsifes
rg Looking GlaflirS, in gilt frames,
for Belidcs India Jjpan'd Toilet Deflts, Chairs, Tables
ar -1 rud Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIEK & Co.
we I Ns. 91, South Second-street.
December sth. i! s
be Davis's Law Book Store,
I No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
1 GEORGE DAVIS announce to his prolefllonsl friends,
~ anil the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
1 Uni(*i, that his laie importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volume to an entire li-
I brarv, wiihout any advance upon his former exceeding lo»
!0n 1 prices, which forfeveral years paik have in so dillmguilhed a
1 manner recommended them to notice.
1 " f .inted Catalogue, combining the mod extensive oollec
'''B tinncf thelateft Englilh and Inlh Editions ever imported
>le, J i r;o ,hii country, are pnblifhed, and will be delivered gutir
e ty Igo apelication.
er- [ Orders addrtffed to G. D. in writing from any distance
ice. | n-.sHhe punctually atte"dtd to.
in j A nuinber of T RUNKS lor Sale.
37, ALiO, TO BE LET,
i A convenient LOFT, ne»r Market Street Wharf.
| Xov.B. tu&f 3 W •
RAISINS.
A few Calks and Boxes of Excellent Fresh RAISINS,
just received, and for sale by
Jofepb A nth any & Co.
Also anew n 1-2 inch CABLE, no fathoms long.
December 5.
THE Parmerfhip of JONATHAN HARVEY & Co. I)
being this day DifTolved by mutual content, those in debt- ]")
ed to said firm are reaucfted to make tyeedy payment to pj
Jonathan Harvay, who is authorized to receivc the fame,
aad those who have any demands will pteafe to bring in
their accounts to him for fettlemont
The Bujinefs will be Continued
By Jonathan Harvey, E
at his stor;; no. 106, s. front-street
Where he has for Sale,
A general alTortment of Dry Goods, w
November 14, 1796. $ tm T
Wm. Hoi.deßnesse, No. 76, ?
HIGH-STREET, A
Has received by the late arrivals, '
A Well Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery GooSs,
Which he will fell, wholesale and rttail, ®n the very
lowest terms ; "
Amongjl twbieh are
S<»me elegaot 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new A
I patterns
Ditto Fnrnitore ditto L
Ditto Dimity C
I Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslin* IV
Ditto in Goid and Siiver
Ditto Ncckcloths, very fine
I Mantuas of the firfl quality
Silfc and Cotton Hosiery
S Umbreltai of the firft quality, aflortrd
J lrifli Liuens, very fine, and Table Lincu*
MarfeilUrs and Cotton Counterpanes
I Rose Blankets aflorted—&c. See. r
J o<iVob«r 76. d
Irilh Linens, &c.
j Imported per the Jh'tps Glajgawx, from Dublin f Liber
j ty y from Cork, and l/tig Mentor, from Be If aft t
j 4-4 and 7.8 Wide IRISH LINENS, «
In whole and half boxes,
Afiorted from nd, to 4s. fterttng— ; AK® 5-4 wide 0
I Sheetinjrs. and low priced yarn and worsted Hose. v
On Hand, J
I 7-$ Wide Lawn*.
I Diapers and Table-Cloths
I A few boxesTic'iiens aad Check*
A few bales flannels
Cork and Sail Cloth, Nos. I and 6
I i$ Boxe* "*) f 6 i<y 8,
10 Ditto > Window Glass, < 7 by 9, 1
I 5 Ditto J C, Bby 10. ' <
j The above mentioned Goo ls are all entitled to the 1
J drawback, aid will be disposed of by the package on
J reasonable terms.
James, Clibborn & F.ngiiih, <
No. 6, N. Front-street.
j io'.h mo. 19th. dtf
I * ;
Best Boston & Nova-Seotia MackarcJ,
ExceHeiit Halifax Salmon in bblj.
47 bbls. prime Coffee,
j Bel! Boston Beef,
I C<«3ft(h in hd».
, Speimaceti Candles,
1 j Spermaceti, and 7 Oil
1 Northern 3
Mould atvd dipt, tallow candles, of a superior
I quality.
I A few boxes excellent brown foep, |
I 6 Bales of Corks.
I 40 Pipes excellent Litbon Wine.
I A few lacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muslins.
FOR SALE BT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
I Qflober at. d
Delaware and Schuylkill Ganal.
The StocklioWcrs are hereby notified, that the an
-1 mral Eleflion for Offiaers for the ensuing year, will
I be held at the Company's office, near the Bank of the
y I United States, on the firft M»nday in Jitiuary next,
at 10 o'clock, a. m.
By the Board of Manager*.
WM. MOORE SMITH, Sec'ry.
— I Philadelphia, Dec. 1, 1796.
TO BE SOLD,
J A LEASE fcr ftven years,from tie "15th March next, in that
capital and beautiful FARM, called
P R O S P E C T-H ILL,
j Situated within one quarter of a mile fron the Brandywine
I Mills, and half a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
„j r I dwelling house is built of stone, two stories high,
I genteely finiftied, and contains four handf>me rooms on
I a floor, befidcs an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
°" I cellars. It is generally thought to command the mod a
1g I greeable profpeft ot the Delaware, from the source of that
I live! to tW Capes. This profpeft ia gieptly ernbeliilhed by
I a full view of avail body ot meadow, through which the
I Chriilia/ia and Brandywine crccks are seen winding in beau-
I tiful meanders. Near the house are a Kitchen, a spacious
I stone flable and hayloft a barn, a carriage house, mifk
-1 house, See. and a well of as pute water as any on the conti
j nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land, a-
I hounding with fruit, and particularly with peach trees, iof
I the very belt kind, brought tiora Maryland, and in tull bear-
I ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a young, apple
I orchard beginUw to bear, and leveral old trees that produce
118 1 abundantly, bcfide* cherry and other ornamental trees, in
I great numbers. The farm consists of near sixty acres of Und,
I of good quality, 'and clear of incumbiances, except taxes,
I twenty ot which erenow iu excellent clover and timothy,
ds, I and ten more will be ready lor lowing next spring. A re
the I fid;nceot nearly 8 yearj has convinced the fubferiber that
np- I the fituatien is rcmvtkably hcalihy. The great post road
it- I from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within seventy
ow I yards of the house. In a word, the beauties and conveni
d a I ence of thiifituation cannot be enumerated in an advertise-
I ment, and when examined, will probably command the at
iec I tention of any person who isdcfimus of living at on« of the
ted j moll elegant country feats on the continent. The purebefer
ni! I may enter on the premiss nCstfpnnf, or perhaps, this fall,
j if application be immediately made to Doctor NICHOLAS
nee j WAY, in Philadelphia, to Do&or WHARTO.I4, on th«
j premises, or, in his abience, to Mr. GECMG&TRUIIT, in
I Wilmington.
I A quantity of excellent Hsy, Grain in thr ground, some
I *?tock, &c, may be had by the puicbafcr at ;!.c ;iine of sale*
v I Nov. 7 cadtf
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrel? and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kcntals
Fine and coarse' Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Flatter of Paris, in the ftonc
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December r. §tf
Imported from London £5° Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, in cratci and hogiheads, w«'i
assorted
Wine Bottles in lumpers
Window Glass of all ii/ei
Two cases of stationary
One chest of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnctta
A small cpnfignment of Rose Blankets, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &c.
Paints of various colors.
Basket fait in hogiheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hogfkeads and
quarter caiks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different fires
A few trunks of ladies French {hoes a (Tor ted
Silk nan keen, &c.
Likewise an aflortment of Dutch goods, confift'.ng of
Ofnafcerps, ticklenbergs, bed-ticks, stripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Britannias,
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas & "John Ketland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
Nov. 15. eojf
MR. FENNELL
Rt/prfifidly fubhiits to the public patronage his in
tention of delivering, during the ensuing winter,
A OOliRSk Of
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining }
Consisting chiefly of detached picces, JeleiTted frqjm
the molt admired authors, in prose and ver.fe: —Ar-
luch .a planner as to exhibit a linking display
of the human passions, and the gradml influence of
vices on the mind contrasted with that of their Oppa
fite virtues, in affesi»g th? happiness of man and the
welfare of natieas. Ihe readings will be uccafionaUy
interspersed with observations on the ipoft celebrated
authors,
And the ART of SPEAKING.
The whole intended as a eombiued system of moral,
critical, historical, and oratorical inftrwilion, calcula
ted to form the patriot and .the mas, and lay a fomi
daiion for the science of moral and political govern
ment.
The coarse will consist of thirty readings.
Each reading will be delivered in the morning and
evening of the fame day.
The dayi of reading will be Tuesdays & Tluirfdays.
i he morning readings will commence at 10 o'c.ock,
and the evening at 7.
None but fjbfcribcrs will be admitted to the morn*
ir.g reaiinj».
The evening readings will be publie, tif wTiTClllU#
fubferiptions will be received.
SuWcriptioo to the moruings 8 dollars.
Subscription to the evening readings 10 dollars.
Oceafional admillion tickets to the evening reading*
half a dollar.
Subscriptions are received by Mr. Foul
fon, jun. at the Library, to whom the Ladies and
Gentlemen who may be inclined to honor the underta
king with thrir patronage, are refpe{lfu)l/ requited to
\ fend their names.
Dec, it. W*-
For Sale,
A capital (land for buGnefi— rhat well known tavern,
the Ewe aud Lambs, North Front Street, No. 333* 111 th*
Northern Liberties! a brick house containing nine fire
places, and ten rooms well finiftied ; good (tables and
„ chair-house, with a frame-houfe on Water street ; the
building (lands on four lots, seventeen feet front each, ma
king a front on front-ftreet, thirty four feet, and nearly
the fame on Water-street, and is one hundred and forty
i* feet deep from ftrcet to flreet, fubjeft to £S. 10s. each
il I lot per annum, ground rent, this property is near the hay
le scales, and public docks, easy communication with the
t, Delaware waters and aivantageoufly Ctuated for buGfteft
of various kinds.
The above premises are now re«ted until December
neat at £.17,5PPr* r annum.—Enquire of toe Printer. —
Dec 11. §iwaaw6w.
On Wednesday, the 28th inft.
at At 6 o'clock in the evening tvill be fold at Public-Fen
due, (if not before disposed of at private fate J at
the City-Tavern,
ne All that capital mansion-house, ftabies, out-houfes, See.
and three contiguous traits »f land fituare on the Weft-fida
H, of Schuylkill in the township of Blockley and cOnnty of
>n Philadelphia, generally known by the name of Lanfdown,
"t containing 199 acres let perches more or lefsand a nitlu.
a- age plantation and tra£t of land in Blockley township a
at forefaid.adjoining Lanfdown, containing 64 acres one
?V psreh. ,
hc The premises are so well known as to nted no particular
u " 1 description. Few feats in America can compare with
ul ! Lanfdown for convenience and elegance; it commands *
.* variety of rich beautiful profpeds and is remarkably heal
" t>.y. Terms »f sale will be made known by
PHILiP NICKLIN, ■) Attoraiej in
° AND f fact to
le ROBERT E. GRIFFITH, J James Greenloaf.
ce Dec. la. $tig.
j™ Mrs Grattan refpedtfully inforais the fubferibera
to the
y* Ladies' Concert,
e " That the firft will be 011 Thursday the 2ind of
December, and Mrs. Grattan takes the liberty of re
" questing the fubferibers to fend for their tickets any
day after Thursday the 13th, at No- 39. N. Sixth
fe- street.
it- Mrs. Grattan begs leave to inform the Ladies ana
he Gentlemen of the City, that the subscription-book ia
xt m her house, No. 39, North Sixth-flneet, for the re
"» ception of those names who wish to honor her with
their commands. A fubfeription for eight nights
sixteen dollars, inckding a Gentleman and Lady'»
,D ticket, both transferable. Half fuHfcriptions eight
T,e doliars, iifcluding one ticket. Single ticket two dot*
lirs.
December 7. I IW
[Volume. X»Nstr Theatre.
On FRIDAY EVENING, December is,
W 'ill' be Arefenteti,
A COMEDY, in four a£U, called
The Child of Nature.
f-From the French of Madam Genlia, by the author of
Every one has bh Fault.
Marquis of Almanza, Mr. Wijnill. »
Count Valantia, Mr. Mtrcton.
Duke Murcia, Mr. Warren.
Seville, Mr. Wmrrell.
Grenada, Mr. Worrell, inn.
jft Peasant, Mr. Cooper,
id Peasant, Mr. Mitchell.
Marchioness Merida, Mrs. Morris.
Amanthis, Mrs. Merry.
-End of the Comedy, a new Pantomime Pallet Dance,
{coinpofed by mr. Byrne) called
Dermot and Kathleen,
Taken fom the favorite opera of the Poor Soldier, art
performed luttb univetfal applauje. upwards of too
nights at Covent-Carden Theatre. -
Patrick, Mr. Worrell, jun.
Dirby, Mr. Blifett.
Father Luke, Sig. Doflor.
Mother Kathleen, Mr. Francis.
Norah, Miss Mi'lboiirne-
And the parts of Derront and Kathleen,
. By mr. and mr». Byrne,
ieing their feeond appearance in America.
To which will be added, a FARCE,never performed
here, called
Animal Magnetism.
Marquis de Laijcy, Mr. Mo r Hon.
JL.a Fleur, Mr. Har<wood.
X)ocstor, Mr. Francis.
Picard, Mr. M'Dmald
Francois, Mr. Warreli, jun.
Jefcry, Mr. Blfrtt.
G#nftance 9 Mrs. Har-vey.
Lifette, Mrs. Frnncff.
. , ' ——-
twenty-five cents. Pit one Dollar,
Gallery, half a dollar. j •
£jF Tickct6 to be had & P- Rice's Book-store,
No. 50 High-street, and at the Office adjoining the !
Theatre.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
PUces for the Boxes to be taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from to till o'clock, and from
JQ till 4 on the days of performance.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clocTc, and |
to order them, as soon company are seated, to ,
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit- ! (
ted to remain.
No or tickets to he returned # nor any i
"person, on any account M'hatloever, admitted behind (
the fecnes. 1
FIFAT RESPUBLTCA! f
Stated Meeting of f
The American Philosophical Society, l
WIL.L. b« held at their Hall rert Friday evening-at ?
6 o c.ock j when the annual Magellanic Premium is to be 1
•Warded.
The Society arc also desired to meet at their 11*11, ©n !
Saturday next at 11 o clock, in the forenoon, to proceed
from thencc to the, 1-refbyterian Church, in High-street , f
where an eulogjum to the memory of their late President, f
Dr. David will be pronounced before
them at 12 o'clock. Dec 14
—— —. t
Notice.
IT AVJNQ Prppofals to communicate, of great import-
XX anee, both to those to whom lam indebted, and to 1
znyfelF, I request the favor of all perfoii# who Jxave dc- a
mands acraixift me. to meet at the City-Ttvern on Friday c
next, at 6 o'clock in the evening.
_ . JAMES GREENLEAF. I
Philadelphia, Drcerrtber r y 1796.
Hibernian Society. c
A dated meeting of the Hibernian Society, will be held
It Mr. M'Shane't Tavern, rhird-ftreet, on Saturday the
17th inft. at 7 o'clock in the evening.
Supper will be on the tabic at half after nine. r
Dec - MATHEW CAPEY, Secjy. ' „
N^v-England Rum, Salmon, Beef,
Chocolate, Rice, Boston mould and dipt Candles, a
few quarter-calks of Sherry Wine, aud a few barrel of tr
Cyder—for file by I
Ezekiel Hall, e>
No. 42, North Water-street. y<
December 14th, 1796.
FOR sale, ~
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
. , No - 99» N»rtb Second Street.
i?P er{a ' ? filyfon Skin. Yl
«yfon, < Freth Teas. J Souchong r
Young Hyson, J sri
ttawtm. ! c:
A Genteel House.
FOR SALE, a new, conv<ni.-nt, thrrec-ftory HOUSE, of
«tuate in Fifth, near S P rHce-ftn-ct. Poffcfliou may be
had ia two months, when i« will be finifhed in neat B ,
modern style. For aj piy at No. io, ; , ruci .. tl "
jticct, or 109, So, Watcr-ffrcct.
December 8. , ,l
■■ §* th<
W A N T E D, wil
As Cook, in a private family,
A YOUNG WOMAN wT,o can produce good re f ° C
«ommcndation» of an unexceptionable charadler Fn
-lU'-~ of the Printer.
November r-. y 0
Jult Landing, * \
jit South JJreet wharf, from rm board //5s [hi[> Srrlr.
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peter/lurr,
The following Goods :
Riiflla Sail Dhclc, firfl quality.
Do. Mieeting do.
Do. Diaper. J
Do. Huckaback. pat
D* Cralb. . an< j
Do. Mould Candle,, 4, s and 6, to the lb. of the as r
Enghlh fizc. r
Do. White Candle Tallow. ? '
. Do' White Soap in small boxes. t:m
Do. Cordage of fine yarn. Con
Raven*, Dnclt. toc
lfinglaft, ,ft and ; fß d fort. are i
Horse Hair uncurlt d. S
Ruflia Bar Iron. " Ul
Do. Hoop Iron. dees
Do. Nail Rods. inha
10 Tons Oakum and Jimlt. on tl
«t. reterfburg Clean Hemp. pmv
For Sale by altift
vcv.Uru Phiii P s > Cramond, & Co, I
§ noj'fc
w—iwinjmmj'wv-'. or..*-*, - m i sun
October 18.
Kxtrnflsfrom the fpceeL of the lord lifMenant of
. Ireland, on opening the lrifh ParKainent, OSo
bcr 13.
" My lords and gentlemen,
"I have his majesty's commands to sequafnt you
' V that he has thought it neceflaty to require your at
tendance in parliament at this early period, and to
rcfort to your deliberative, wisdom at a time when
the ambitious projects of our enemies hare threat
ened to interrupt the happiness and prtifperiry of
his people, hy making a dcfcent on this kingdom
and Great-Britain. And nltboagh his mij.rly
looks forward with the utrnoll confidence to the
fpiri', loyalty, and ability of hi. faithful people of
Ireland to repel ftich an atij, k, it will yet become
nee, your wisdom to neglect no precautions -which may
preclude the attempt, or fccure the fpeedieQ means
cis turring it to the conltifion of tlve enemy..
-DO ' III! mjjrfty Jias been graciously pleafrd to di
rect an addition to "be made to the regular.forces in
this kingdom, by troops feot from Great-Britain,
the greater part of which are already arrived ; and
in pttrfuance of his majesty's commands, I have
also encouraged the loyal and zealous clifpofition
which has generally displayed itfclf, to aftociate in
arms under his majilly's authority for the better
ica. property, -and the preservation of tran
quillity and good order.
Ned " My lords and gentlemen,'
The expediency of the vigorous menfnres
which you have adopted in the 1 ft feflion of parlia
ment has been amply proved by the .tmtrages,
which they were inten«ie»! to suppress, having in a
great mcafnre fubli led. I am, howevet, to lament
that in one pait of the country good order has not
yet been entirely relUred, and that in other dif
tniils a treasonable system of fecrct confddeiatirw,
by the adminiflering of illegal oaths, rtill continues,
altnough no means within the reach of government
tar. a * c ' cft untried to countetaft it.
j " The prosperity and of the king.
If' I I°|?' unproved by your meritorious care,
! (l ' l, """in uunimfaired by the prcjfure of the mar;
he and 1 trull to your unremitting attention for the 1
further advancement of our national prosperity." I 1
HALLOWELL, Nov 26.
cir I.aft Saturday afternoon Henry M'Qaufland,
nd (who is confined in gaol in this town for the murl
it° I Wing of Pittfton, and burning
" j Church there, in Otftober 1794, had hfs trial at
ny 1 Wifcafiet, July, 1795> judgment was fufpen
nd ofl ftippofil ion of his being infanc) after ha
ving Solicited Mr. Pattidge, the gaoler, for three or
four days to tome into hisrtjom and clean his (love
- —he accordingly went in and took the a flics out & '
(arriedthem to the door,and while he was doing this,
, his child, about two years old, followed him in, t
at and M'Csufland, a» ufui.l, careflVd the child—Mr.
then ftept out for to carry atoay a
on the ashes in, and M'Caufland immediately feircd k o
ed ' ar g e cl "b which he ha*d concealed in his bed, and n
t, ftrutk the child on the head ; the mother, wfio ti
it, nood near the door, heard the blow and flew to the 0
re chfld, but did not reach it before he had repeated b
- the blow on the head ; it was apparently l.fVlefs,, tl
b«t revived in about ten minutes, and there trq il
t . hopes of its recovery, although the scull appears
to to have been craekcd by the blows.—Whllft the 0
e- attention of the family wns taken up with tlie »
>y child, M'Caufland rail to the door and attempted
P n' bUt W3 ' P reVfr "lt is fjppofcd tha' tl
M Caufland intended to have killed Mr. Pjtricige «
- and make his escape ; but, perhaps, feaiing he ta
could not efTeft this, he struck the child.
Ie , "
n efl '° n e for a "eprefenntive in the pl
, Conprets of the United States, for this dUfrift c om- f
_ mences in the different wards of t&is City.
t At a meeting of the. AlTociated Underwriters in er
* I Clty it being unasimoufly agreed til
,f tr.exprefs the thanks of that lfody to capt.Sharpe, la,
•"» Britannic majefly's packet Swallow, f nr his he
exeruons at tl,c late fire-the following letter was , h
. yeftcrclay addrefled te him by their president. „
John FiRRERs, fec'iy. if
SIR, New-Yoik, Dec. 10, 1796. "o
The Associated Underwriters of the city of New-
York, take the opportunity,-before your depatturc C o
tram this port, to express the sense that they en
tcrtam of the feryiccs you rendered the commercial i„
iriterells of tn.scity, by your ready affiHatice nnd |
exertion, at the fire which happened in the night | hot
. of the Bth infi. to which null be attribute, a h a ,
great degree, the fafcty of a number of veffei, fr u m pi/,
the consequences o{ that calamity. F - J
.k IhhrC > r thc f "" n,T ° { r ou to difttibMte an'
the enclofedfum among thofeperfons who aided you
with their services on that occ^fion.
. I beg leave to fuhferibe myfrlf, in behalf the As- fie
fociation, Wrh much refpeft, fir, rcp
Your vety obedient servant, to '
<r » SANDS, president, dila
John Sharpr, efqwire, commander ( i
01 his Britannic mojefty'a packet »
Swalluw. 1
wer
To which captain Sharpe retuined the following (Jan
answer. 6 J
sre, . -
It gives me infinite fatisfaftion to find ,h at any
and H"ft 7 a' ' he 'ft
and distressing conflagration, fhot.ld be considered witl
so , e df g"e, the attention of elofi
efpc«a..le a 1 body of merchants ; at the fame that
time I beg to affiire you, on that calamitous occa firft
fion, I felt ,t no Icfs my duty than my inclination, met
to exert my bell endeavours to flop the rapid pro- mem
grefsof an enemy, which threatened the total de- Frer,
Itiuflion of so great a commercial city. I feel, si, tI) , 1
deeply for tl,e very heavy lofTes which many „ the oj
inhabitants of New.York mult have experienced mi*
on the occasion, and lament tjiat it was no, i„ my „ e ®
Knee. rendCred thCm mOTe #fftaual " id
m<• rr no ; u m i' to fxrrcf ' to y° u ' h ° w mu ch i f rc i par M
"'debtedto Dr. Wm. Dache, for hi. inde . inya
595 fatijsMt exertion* and r.Sifta.ice on board the two
firfl (hips traufported from the fl<unes.
Nt 0 f she funs of money whicFf you have so liberally
Ogo- vo ' ft 3 -'be dlflributed agreeably t« your vrifhes.
I have the honour\o be,
With the utmost refpe£t, fir,
t y o ,i" Yonr mod obeuient humble servant,
„r«. ... J. OHN SHARPE.
nd to s Britannic majefiy't packet Swallow.
w ; ien Comfort S inbs, esquire, president
treat- '''" Alfociated Underwriters.
ry of, Dec. t2, 1796.
*dom '< _ —
ij.rly r ' Saturday. Nicholas Low, esquire, president
1 the °/ t ' le Un.ted lnlurance Company, went on board
pie of 'he Britifli packet Swallow, at the desire of the
come CQm P» n y. to offer their thanks to captain Sharpe,
may bm lli; "Of being on board, Mr. Low left the fob
leans lowing note—
' Mr. Low called to have the pleasure of paying
o di- re 'P <r<^9 t0 captain Sharpe, nnd the gratifica
e« in *' on com rtHinica; ing to him the acknowledgments
tain, "f ,l,e United Infnrance Company, in which Mr.
and * jaw ,las ~!r honour to preside, for his exertions at
have t * lc !® tc fclaneholy and dillreffing fire ; but molt
ition particularly to return the grateful thinks of the
:c in cc ; ,n p a iy captain Sharps, for preferring the (hip
etter * V^al ilcia, in which the company arc interelied as
tran- ""detWriters, from deftruiSion. Mr. Low wiflied
also to know from captain Sharpe, the names of
the persons who assisted him upon that occa/ion, in
"ures or^fr that lie might make them a pecuniary com
rlia pctifation."
ige*, 'tis captain Sharpe has since returned an an
in a w er, littiilar to :he one addrtHed to the president of
nent tlle Aflociated Underwriters, and in which he xc
not kn owledges the receipt of the pecuniary donation
dif- ®entioned in Mr. Low's note.
i' ln , ! ' —
ues, j 3 roeeting of the President and Directors of the
lent New-York Infnrance Company.
Resolved unani'moufly, that the exertions of cap
ing. tam Sharpe, of bis Britannic majelly's packet
are, Swallow, and his officers and crew, in prelerviog
ar . the (hipping in the harbour of New-York, during -
the calamitous fire on Friday morning the 9th inli.
" deserve the thanks of tins company.
An extract from the minutes.
By order ot the president and (Jire&ors, I
BAN. PHCENIX, fee'ry. 1
<nd, J — ~. | <
Xj CONGRESS of tsi united states. \
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVFS.
ha- v
;or Wednesday, December 14. ,
ove A communication wa3 received from the Secre
: Sc tary of theTreifury, with apian for direst taxes. n
his, Tbe petition of Mr. Hill was re-committed to 0
in, the committee of claims.
4r. The report on the petition of Thomas Lloyd, P
»ar and Thomas Carpenter was taken up in committee fl
da of the whole. The report contemplates, that each ®
ind member (ball be provided with . copies of
4> the debates propoftd to be publiflied, at the choice c
the of each member. - The report was rejected, 19 mem- "
ted hers only rising m the affirmative. The report of f !
:fn, the committee of the whole agaioft the report of "
cr<> the feleft committee was agreed to, c<
ara he order of the day in committee of the whole, cl
he on the draft of an answer to the Prefid. nt's fpeecls li
lie was then taken op, Mr. MiJlilenberg in the chair. u
ed On motion of Mr. Venable, the word interior in ai
,at the fecund paragraph was (Iruckout and the word w
ge iL'eJlcrn fubitituted, so as to read—" and to main- 01
he tain the tranquility of the -wejlern frontier."
Mr. Giles did not approve of the expressions eon- fr
tamed in the reported answer to a very important P 1
and delicate part of the Preiidtnt's address. The
he present he said 'was a very important crisis of our 9'
affairs with refpeft to France. He considered a "<
uipturchctweenthiscountry ard France as a threat- 01
ening danger, and in that view he did not altou-... vv
the. approve ot theclaufe io the report that had re- ,0
e, lat,*, to the fubjefl. lW was fojne diffic«ltv, •>'
" 3 h , e fu amending the paragraph ;he would
as incrcrorc oftcr an smendmeni more wiin a view of nc
expreffiug hit objedion to the report, that it micrht,
if the committee concurred with him, be recom
muted. He wished th, house to express unequi
voeaUy their wish for a preservation of peace with to
the trench Republic, that was the ohjea of his re<
»- motion, and he conceived the of it Q,t
re cou.d he hell modified by a recommitment for
His motion was to introduce the words marked ' lio
»l m Italics into the following sentence; Ihe
d » Your endeavors to fulfil that wist, au J t y a // ' l an.
it honourable mem, to prefers peace Wio rt nJ e , ht I
a harmony and aJcßion -which havt hmtofore so hat,- me
n pilyMM'J let ween the French RepMic and the U- j he
e melt'n!" ihtrcforc '° ''"tej-eft our ! the
" M , r - Smilh T - S. C. had no ohjeflion to the a- \l<
. mendment. He considered it as merely an ampli- rbi
- ncation of the fent.ment already toinained in the bee
report He believed it was the wish of every one to
to preserve peace ; and he could not objeff , 0 in r
dilating on that fubjeft in the answer, if it was the wna
wi(h of any one member. v j
Mr. Ames wiffied to know whether the motion t'»,
went to concluding the paragraph with the words of I
above dated, orwhether the remainder of it was to I
hand as in the report.
Mr. Giles fi'ggefted that there might be a dif- vine
tirct amendment introduced to the latter part of for
the paragraph after the present had been d fp.fed of. Inc.
Mr. -snes w.fficd the .mentions of the member dc£l
with refnea to the whole paragraph might he dif. be c
„He ' a well fitio
that members when they agreed to amplify the that
part °/ ,! ? e clause f1,0,,!d underlbud what r,as on v
meant to be a, teredin the latter part. By the a
mendment great reliance w*. to be placed on the crisis
French for the maintenance of harmony, and if cd t
Uft P ara g ra P h was to be ft ruck out, ens r
none would seem to be placed on ourfelvej. It curre
n»ght be more patriotic, in the opinion of some If
gentlemen to pU-e this great reliance on a foreign sense
nation, and little on ourselves j but for his own the I
part this was not hi 9 opinion.
Mr. Giles said that he had no idea of propofin* 'hat .
"inyamendment to the remainder of the clause £ 0 f ..
two sny manner com eAed with the prefenf. He wifli.
Ed the House to exprefo in the firft instance une.
crally qutvacally their feotiroems with refpea to the pre
ifhes. (ervation of peace, and not leave their opinions oir
this important head tg be deduced hy conftruflion.
He did not wi(h this to be done by referring to
ant, what the President had exbrefled j but that the
E. House Ihould express their Swieleelings on the 6c
llow. carton.
He contemplated, he said, fdbmitting another
amendment after the present one was decided.
Though he conceived no connection between the
two, yet he would here, he said, mention it by way
ident of information—Thi« amendment was to the lit
oard ter part ot the sentence. The drift of it was, by
the a trifling alteiation, to express the reliance of the
irpe, House on tha mutual justice and moderation of the
■soU two nations for a continuance of harmony, and
not a reliance on the moderation and justice of
ying France only.
fica- The question was put upon the firft amendment
lents and agreed to, nem. con. as was also the second *.
Mr. mendment.
is at Mr. Parker ohjefied to the last claafe but one
nod in the report in which Americans are msde to stile
the therrtTelvs the fretjl and mojl nation in
(hip the ruirld. He meved for striking out those words
(1 as observing, that though the fact werefo, weouoht
Hied not to be the heralds of our own praise.
sof Mr. Harper wilhed to make a motion that would
, in fupercede the last, it was to strike out of the istter
om- pa; tof the additfa, all that part which related to
the Prefideftt's services, talents, virtues, &c. and
an- to fubflitute one paragraph expressing fentitnents of
t of refpeft for his much mure concisely
ag- We could not catch the words of the fubftiiute'
ion as it was but once read. *
Mr. H. observed, tha: he did not make this mo
tion, bee.:life he himfelf difapprored »f any thinfc
the contained in the report as it flood ; but the fublti.
tute he proposed was more simple and coneife ; and
ap- in this way he conceived the fer.timems would be
ket expressed with better effect on the public mind
wg and more fu.taljy to the dignity of the House an 1
ing »t the character addressed. Amplification, he re
nil. traiked, ofien dimii.ilhed the force of expreffiom
Mr. Giles said he had oLjeflions to fere,,l p . ra
■graphs o. the report; to the whole of it from th.
sixth clause inclufire. He wished the whole of that
to e flruck out and the report recommitted, not
_ doubling but that the committee will be able to
Si! { rr rd Tr" a fl,ape more
With thefee.ingsot the House, and more agreeable,
indeed, to those of the President.
wn^'"'f rtl .' ,h ( S - C 0 wifl,cd ,M know whether ft
, be ,n , order ta strike out clatifei of
the report already agreed to.
re . n>e Chairman decided that such clauses as had
e3 . not been amended might be moved to be ft ruck
Mr Harper was opposed to (Iriking „ u t for the
d ' Trbfe H p ood "doners, hefaiil,
" r J ' C p, "" D S off an " lfw « to the Pre. '
e(l fident till to-morrow, when it could as well be
o{ done to-day. The committee of the whole, he
ce conceived, were as well qualified to make any „-
n . me. dment now as ever. When all the parts of a
of yftem were to be weighed and balance* orw .
of ter of fa ft to be eoliedted, a reference to a Meo*
committee was neccfTary'; but on t),e present
f. a ° n he ™uldf;e n .° fucl > necessity ; tvcrvlnforma
•ll ee" an7fh ry ° f ,h ' e
T- U '' Jnd thc y wcre now as competent to decide on
; n any amendment as they ever would be, and they
1 he motion was declared to be on .Iriking out
n - 'nclufively, as that motion fu
nt pfroe'lrd that of Mr. Harper, as ft included more.
" aul f / r' J called for a division of the
Jr question, so that a separate motion should ba cut
3 Z par ' g ? ph - r He W3S °PP-fe» to ftriklg
w" chL P , 'u' M '"Z' ot ' h < Ho <4
« n «tved ought at this time particularly
he H"r v. adlTrt<:d '° 'he address of
'' 1,11 rt - elca,on o{ the President and
Id ?«> the glowing language then used ; why should it
'/ e°fion bC " gl ° W ' ng ° n the P rt f«' o,:
1" . , A ', th '' S P"f'cularly, the House onght not
to be backward He conceived th„ no objeflion
h to language ought to operate a, an inducement to
, recommit. It was impossible to use such a phrase.
1 U ';' bc P frfcil, y agreeable to every per- .
I ~l f j' le ifitiments exprelfed were not ofejec.
i j , ne h °Es d . an y "rbal criticisms would r«, t
| heotem.d a fufficient inducement for (Inking out
7 ! and recommitting. s uc
' | Mr " Gi, « fald not objea to every fe„,;.
" : rnent exprefTed £ the portion of the reporl whfch
; i™d°rV°n, n c u out: he u * d °°
, the address (hould be complimentary, bin wiftied it
to be so with,n the bounds of modJr'ation afd 0 f!
V". would state the parts which he conceived
• objectionable. He objeaed to the 6th paragraph
because he conceived it unnatural and unbecoming
to exult at our profpenty by patting it pointedly
in ('omparifon with the calamities of Furore It
was not neceflary , 0 tell persons unfortunalely in.
thtnli:°y aC Th"^ Hat "7 Were f ° mud ' ha PP ! «
of the house. ' °° f '' 0 " W " h ,he bufinef «
In the next place, if he stood alone in the opi- 4
mon, yet he would declare, that he was not con
viDcecl that the administration of the government
for these fix yeais'laft past bad been wife ?P d fi!Z -
Inceed he had opposed every measure of theirs ref
praing our foreign relations,, aad unless he could
be convinced that he had been wrong in th.t 000 l
fition, he could not be made to feel the exitercr f
that wisdom. If the measures of thlt admfnift",;.
on with to foreign powers had been wife
we fhou,d not have been brought to the pre-'ent
ed the r f , W ' rd ' >m and firmnef » conduct
ed the affairs of the nation to a c.-rif lß which threat
curred" 1 " " lha " a " y that ha " oc
If the report had been f 9 framed a. to express a 1
Ik P a " Mtlfra ' virtue and uprightLfs of
rose ' t r m ' , \ t have obtained the unanimous
rose of the houle ; but .t was lo be expeaed
that many of the members should so far l o se fight
of Itlf refprtV a, to condemn by one „tc thehole cotirfe of their own political eondu£. If «
vew was taken, indeed, of our internal fituationit
v ouid be fecrn that circumstances exist »ot usually
tendant ion a (late or prosperity; public and pri
vate credit is shaken, arising in a great degree from
the fif?al operations of the adminillratiow.
Another sentiment in the report he could not agree
in. He did not regret the Present's retiring from
oifice. He hoped he would retire and enjoy the happi
ness thaj awaited him in retirement. He believed it
would more conduct to that happiness that he fliould
retire than if he should remain in office. He believed
the government of the United States founded on the
broad baiis of the people; that they were competent
Co their own government, and the remaining of no mail
>n office was necessary to the success of that govern*!'
- mtnt. The people would truly be in a calamitous a
fituationof one man were essential to th« exiltesce of! r
tbeir government ; he was convinced th.it the United i I
States produces a thousand citizens capable of filling
the Prel'idtntial ch.iir, and he would trust to the dif- *
eernment of the people for a proper choice. Tfco' the J
voice of all America should declare the Present's retir- '
ing as a calamity, he could not join iu the declaration, c
because he did not conceive it a misfortune. He hop- a
ed the President would be happy in his retirement, and p
he hoped he would retire.
He reverted again to that part of the report which ! j
declared the admiuiftration to have been wife and firin ' ?
in itsmeafures. He had always disapproved, he re- j °
peated, of the measures of that administration with res- i 17
pett to foreign relatons, and many members of the | ai
noule had also, he was therefore surprised that gentle- r
men would now come forward anri wifii him in one tr
breath to disavow all his former opinions without be- cl
ing previously convinced of having been in an error. f r
For his own part he conceived there was morecaufe T
than ever for adhering to his old opinions, thfcourfe of T"
events had pointed out their propriety, and if he was ' u
not much mistaken a crisis was at hand which would w
confirm them. He wished that while gentlemen are ui
willing to compliment the President, they would pay h<
foir.e rtlpedk to the feeling of others.
He then adverted to the lad paragraph but one.
Even if the United States were in fa<ft the most free
#nd molt enlightened nation in the world, it was no .
evidence of it, that they fliould ltoop t® publishing it m
themselves. Befidesa declaration of that kind had no- ch
thingto do with the hufinefs of the house. m
, H« next adverted to the sentiment exprefled in the oil
fame clause «that adulation would tarnish the luflre,
ice." and ob'crved that those words introduced in a v
parenthesis appeared to have forced themselves upon the ]
committee as in fail felf-coodercning what had been "
written before in exalted p.'aile of the President, co
He concluded by a few lemarku oil the last clinic of di:
the report, which exprelTed a wifli that the Present's kr
fuccefTors may keep him in view as an example wor- cri
thy of imitation. It would be time enough, he laid, to p,
fpe»ik ofh s fuccefior when he should arrive. His ill?- .
ceffor he did not doubt when he did come intooffue r
would exert his bell judgment »»d abilities for the
good ofthe United States, an* would pursue the course tcl
without any example. en
The objectionable parts of the report he ol.ferved toi
were so interwoven «ith the reft, that he hoped his mo- rzi
tion toitnie out a:vl recommit would prevail. cr ;
Several numbers spoke after Mr. Giles at cor.fidera-
We length. There was no decision.
The committ> e reported progress, and the honfe ad- JJ'
Journed. f The tortgoing (ketch is from the Aurora.-] an '
~ J am
FOR THI CAItrTE OF THE UNITSD STATES. f,
Mr. Fenno, V'
WH EN the electors of the President and, Vice ' '
-Pfefident of the United States, took their feaia at
the council-table in the court-houfr.it H |
Robert Colrman, rfquire, moved, that a president
or chairman Ihoald be appointed of their hody, for
the purpdfe,of proceeding to buiinefs. It waa a j
matter of aftonilhment to every person prcfent, but
the other fourteen electors, when he was anfweted, f '
that they bad already chosen a president, that the pj e
chief juiiice was chosen : they accordingly proceed- f
ed to business, and Mr. Adams had one solitary
v °fe.
I hope we may be allowed to rematk, that the
conduit of the Jefferfon gentlemen was not very de
ficate, in making an appointment that refpedtrd the 0 c
eleflion, without the privity of Mr. Coleman.—
Pray let oor friends in Philadelphia know, that we |( v
ire not much obliged to them for their interefl at ( j n .
the lafl general election. However, if we had got j-j
in all our ticket, the eledtors would have been e- n f '
qually divided, and we would have ha(i the mortifi- c j )a
cation to be lurched of our own choosing. me[
From the specimen they have given of their Ikill, tcr j
I liope not one of those gentlemen who were pre- rec ]
sent at forming the V/helen ticket, will ever pre- (j an
tend to, or be present at, the forming any ticket
in future, for the federal interefl in this state,
I hope any gentleman, hereafter, named as an s on
elector to support a particular intireft, if he is not j-.1 c
in that intercft, will deelore it publicly, and in j ay
time, that he may be understood, and that the peo-
pie may i . Se deceived. When I vote for a legif. r
litor, 1 i*.ird the privilege that he is to cxercife ~
iris own judgment—lt would be abfutd to prescribe Q f ;
the delegation. But when I voted for the Whelen
ticket, I voted for John Adams; and if Israel had «
got in, I think he would have had sense enough to t,- .
know it, and candour to adt accordingly. What! ]
do I chufe Samuel Miles to determine for me whe- c|r .
*seer John Adams or Thomas Jefferfon is the fitteft
man for President of the United States? No I i
chufe him to ad, not to think. Did the enlighten.
ei counties of Wafhirigton, NorthumberlarJ and fl j ( y
Philadelphia exert every nerve, and cheat into the f t
bargain, fr.r men that would hesitate between the Bot
two candi-iatcs ? Certainly no!. When two tickets ■< jj
:Te formed, does half of the (late take up fifteen ] em|
men to uftirp the privilege of thinking for them t |, e
upon jonc plain queltion ? No thenc u more sense in ,
thccoontry than'that. Did the glorious county of ces
York, that federal gem, turn out its honed inhabi
tanls, and give Mr. Miles three thousand votas, for 7iy ,
'He purpose of furthering Mr. Jefferfon's eleflion I coni
No, no, no. j j (
Now the affair as to tss is over, and not much to al] j
my mind, yet T honour the thirteen Jefferfon ehrc- j n a
tors, jutl as far as respects the circumllance of vot. t (, at
ing for Mr. Jefferfon : the contrary would have j j
been an imputation upon the good sense of the peo- j lc
pie *'ho chafe them, and would have been betraying „ et j,
trull. lam of opiuion, that the chief jultice ] earr
hinil?!/ ( who has as goud a light to change fides, ),|
ard tbii kas he picnics, as any man in Pannlylva- |,| OO
nia) wwiM beenhis»e with us,ifl>e had been placed '. rc . ;;j
in our ti. k;t ; for, when at Harri&urgh before,
an eleetcv, no man spoke so highly of Mr. Adams
«s be did. ■ « ■
i
Ip T""'' ,f '"h our fepuWicsn federal
« u, Cnt ' Va 'e' ,hat thc feJeral the lion
/ °" r ' b L \ e co " n 'y ° f Y °*> be the firft to aft, at
a " ««We« where good wine is drank, and eood rare
jm roall beef eaten. An ADAMITE.
•Uauphtn county, Dec. 9, 1736.
rec ——
>m for the gazette of the unitsd states,
NEW TH~E AT RE.
he MACBETH.
a AS l p OOPER ' s r epu:a:ion as an a&or had
■a* flown before him, the public expectation was much '
, us awakened, when the tragedy of Macbeth was an
of . noil,icedl for hts firft appearance. The character of I
Macbeth is to try theutmoft talents of <
J any nerfortner, a,,,]'fuccefj ensures a solid reputa i- '
he : ,Ir - Coo P" be aware that !>« placed him- ]
Ir- 1e1 .'. 1 ? 8 "eonfpjcuous situation, full in the eye of {
n> cntlciftn. If critieifm ts candudted with candor r
p- and decency, he cannot complain tho' it difap- j
id prove : while those wliofe expeflations have been A
I gratified may indulge the pleating task of commcn- *
I dation, he mull expect that those who have not
e _ I beon thus gratified, will express their disappoint- J
, r _; ment and mark his errors. 1 mull confefs lam 5
, e j among the latter class, and that Mr. Cooper fell ve
e-j ry far short of my idea of Macbeth/ i feel the
>e more confidence in my opinion, because Dramati■ ~
cvs, the 11 lend and panegyrilt of Mr. Cooper, in
k forms me his Macbeth was not well received in
>f ~ on doj» } becaiife I underlie,nd lie wa, not more
ls luccefsful in Baltimore ; and beennfe I know he
d w*s not so here. When Drcmalicus speaks of the 01
e universal applause given to Mr. Cooper on Friday, ft
y he mufl be conscious he has Brained a point to serve p
his Trierva. 1 bi?p!a«di:s were as unfrcquent, fnint
j ®" d cold ' co _"'d be given to any to'lerable per
-0 on his firft appearance. It cannot be dc- th
1 n ' t " at r - Chalmers (tho* very unequal to the
. charaScr) received vaflly more applause ; and 1 Ci
mult confefs, if I may judge from the interefl (fx
e cited in tny own heart he dcferVed the preference :
> this opinion 1 fliould scarcely have ventured to e ffer C "
. it I were not ftrerigtbeued in it, by finding it pre- fir
i "tlmg among o,oft of those with whom I have co
convened 01 , the fuhjeft, and many gentlemen of
f dtHinguifhed Ineraturc and tafle. Mr. Cooper 1,11
' kn °w to ° veil what the uiviverfal applause of a\ ™
crouded theatre is, to believe that he rccsived it on
' rnday night.
' r Ii? e ? rft . ,h '. n K ,0 ht 0 fcrved '"" lhc pffformance re'
; of Macbeth, i» the striking Jnnjien of hisch..r,c
---: Cer 7-^ a cbeth, the noble, brave, and faithful, is
entirely diihiyft from Macbclh, the murderft, trai-
I tor, and regicide : this difcriminatioa of his iha
rafte •is finely observed by Mr. Ruliardfon, iu his D;
criticisms on f#mc of the piincipal charadteia of 4 l a
ohakefpeire : -lie has traced wilh much talte and Fr;
judgment the progress of this change in the mind
and character of Macbeth. Mr. Cooper wa, o„e,
and the f.me man, acting in different fittiations, lu:
from the beginning to the end of the play ;he "
was not at one time the dignified hero, and then
the rel'hite, abandoned, despairing villain. He fen
not only f,iled in diflinju.fhing the change in Mac- tt><
bell's character, but by itrfqrrte fort lifemjing'thrm, pai
loft both. His whole demeanor, aCtio-i u..d ap- ' l 0
pearante was not that of the dignity of aanly ~r . c f ■
tue, struggling under too much temp'ation, and sal r A' !
ling thro' the ambition and artful intrigues of a da
rrng woman ; but that of a cowardly affaifm, who fori
feared, the dritS'tcn, not the conmlJjF.on of his crime, ous
IHe created nointeteft for Macbeth—no fytnpothy fro
for his fall—l followed him, from bis crime to his ■■
punifhr.-Bt, with no other fecli.igs than I should
have had at the exesution of an Italian a'ffaffin.
There was nothing dignified—nothing foblime, in Rtl
his mariners and deportment. Through the whole
of the firft adt he was aukward and uninteresting.
from the commencement of the zi adt he rose, but 1
never rose to Macbeth. His manner and aaion
throughout the whole pl*y, were forced, embarraf. Ov
fed, and very deficient in grace. The expressions Sor
of Mr. Cooper's countenance were forced and me- c< "
chanical ; not arising immediately from the fenti- Ital
ments and feelings of liis foul, or fpecifically adap- Mil
ted to them. His emphasis was frequently rnifpla
ced. An-, -ng others I recollect one remarkable in- i '
fiance. WJien the king was out of the way there Son
was nothing to obftruft the full completion and Prii
fifety of Macbeth s ambition, but Banquo and his Ov
son. He recollected the predidlion of the wayward
fillers on this fubjeft. He represents to himfelf the J
daritg Jpirit ai d dtunlhf, temper of Banqwo, and Gei
his fears of him. As an evidence of this daring
spirit, he fays, narr
He chid ths fillers when they put the name p '
of king upon me"—which Mr. Cooper repeated Hal
thus * ■ Sin
"He chid thzjijlirs whet) they put the name of b
king upon ltie." fubl
If 1 understand the meaning of the line, the rhl
emphasis should be placed thus— sixl
" He chid the filters whan they pot the nameef
ting upon me. A
The spirit of Banquo is shewn by his daring to
chidt the fillers ! And for what did be chide them M C
—for putting the name of king upon Macbeth and
not on him. The beiutiful soliloquy which begins beh
" if it were dune, when 'tit done, See." is a so- vern
lemn deliberation in the mind of Macbeth, upon
the deed befoie him, viewing it in it's most horri
ble filiations, its deepest confequen. jr,
ces. If this is the cafe, it should not have been ]
spoken with the angry violence which Mr, Cooper
gave it—At thephrafe " we'd jump the life to
come," Mr. Cooper gave a motion to his body,
imitative of jumping, by riling suddenly on his toes
and bending forward j this may be called punning
in In short, it was evident throughout
that Mr. Cooper was aßing.
If he is to be eonfiderrd as a young performer,
he is certainly very promifir.g; but if as the com
petitor or Itibftitutc of Mr. Fennel! ,he has much to
learn and acquire. Hii addrtfs to the airy dagger
-his return from the murder of Duncan, with the H;
bloody daggers in his hands—and his recital of that <1°".
beautiful speech, "(he should have died hereafter,"
4c. were peculiarly fortunate.
CANDOUR.
" Ttie Pisce here alluded to, was signed" W." E. D<
hoci- " "
l » »t Philadelphia^
rare ——
E- THUTISDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 15, i rs 6.
is. election returns.
Return OF Porks ~ " ? "
10* t 5 | t
PRESIDENT f *
ANB i, ?
had VJCE-PrtESIDENT <A 3
uc Ncw-Hjmplhirt;, ' 1 r~
an- Mafiaciiufetts,
rof Khodelftand, ,
1 of Connedlicut, 9 4
~j. Vermont, |
im- N'w-Yorlc, „ „ -
of Y -' ?! 7
Pennlylvania, , ,U ,
.- or Delaware, ,i -
ap- Maryhnd, 744' 3' ?
een Virginia, I jjo jto, 6 5
cn- Kentucky, I ']
lot T*onefle», 4
I)t _ Nortli-Caro! ••>," j
South-Carolina, - E
" rn Georgia. E
v «- • _
the Total, I j
iti- —— «i
in Philo-Theatricus to-morrow.
he r< " ar s ,n f or '"<>d, and communicate the infor- r
he mation w.th pleofurej that the fire at Momfvillr de.
IT< ftroyed the grift-mill only, where it firfl caught.
int if " letter fr*m Savannah, dated jctb. No- -
-vember 1795.
,1 ir C i ,nftant 1 '"formed you by pod of -
e- the dreadful calamity that had befallen us the night Ue
he fore, .11 having■loft two thirds of the building, in our
1 \ Sl .late the inclosed half (heet has
<X- from there mains of Powers & Seymours press.* c *
, . Jt gives mmy opinion a just representation of the
; circumftamres attending that unfortunate event. in
„ K " on futh occafiotu we have had the cries of ch
fire repeatedly iince but no furth.r misfortunes were the w
vc conlequenres.
° f f , he lofr :» luftalnedhere w. do not doubt-will excite or
fr the humanity of our Northern Friends, no community
a rhTf fl° mO ' C ",V. He / d ° f their 'ffiftan.e-many of "
-he fufterer. are .Widows, and orphans.
n,'■ |ofc Pj? cu y» fe "- Thoma. Young, and John Ha- '
ce npceWe^lloHan oris.'' ' he C ° r P or " io » t0 .
c- j I üblifticd in.lftft Tuesdays Gazette. ce
a- ~, EXTRACT. m 3
is n V, ' ,a!wn " lf ' h " cb «i"he condurt of the French ' us.
if the American Miniftrr had publiflied an
, !, bora ' <; ' »d inflammatory addref* to to the people of an
■ j'TVr?. government, reprobating the con- ed
,d tUM ofthofc in power, and extolling that of the part* Fa
t, oppoltd tewm ; they would have doae as the Par- att
s> Uamem of England did in 1727, when the Emperor's
ie. "Xr'iSP" ® d ,* n ! nfolent memorial to the kine, and an
pd liftedlit next day in tilt newlpapers. *Jall parties
expfeiiing ti;e higheii indignation and re
fentrrust at the affront offered to the government by ~
;- the nittaonal deiiv£,ed by Monsieur palm, and mote
5) particularly at this audacious manner of appealing
j. irain the government to the people under the pretext
r. ®* foe reparation MU! redrefi of fappofed iniu
-1 2?'r in e«*-'4"* n "®P» n «Mrel»fioiii bot&'houfes f 1
Mbnfie.il Pattiwas ordered to quit. England immedi
atc.y. And uit not neceftry. that we ftbuld adept
remedy adeqwaie to'Jhi. evi:, «n avoid these feri-
' SliCnCt * h ' :a y o'htrwife be apprehended 1
18 fc— -■ >1 n' -OTT H wf. cvtpr^ryry^^pr-— rrw—l
d f ~ '
I. MltS. G RATTAN ,
0 Refpe&fully inform, the Ladies and Gentlemen of the Fri
City, that the lirft ...j
LADIES' CONCERT
; Will he on Tuesday next, at the AiTembly-Uoom.
" -Act I. h j
" c ,VCrtU L C ' o P!M
---s Song, Mrs. Grattan, "Angel, ever bright," Handel. Fad
• , ! KCr, ° J uno Fortt , Mrs. Grattan, Krumpbohx. thai
• ;' a ' a " '' ,a " Harp, Mr.. Grattan, Milico. P lln
Mifccllaneou. Quartette. >
Act 11. —
. H ar P Lefton, Mrs. Grattan, Cardan.
Song, •< Ah feperdo," Mrs. Grattan, Sacchim.
■j Sonato Piano-Forte, Mr. Reinagle, p/ oe /
1 Pnmrofe, ballad, Mr.. Grattan, Wehbe P
s Overture, AM Vj
i *4-* To begin precisely at 7 o'clock. 1 1
t Mrs. Grattan beg. leave to inform the Ladies and "5"
J Gentlemen, that the fubfeription-book it at herhoufe land
, Wo 39> North Sixth-ftrect, for the rcctption of those 0111
names who with to honof her with their commands.— on a
. lubfcription tor eight nights 16 dollar., including aof e
I u frr 3? B a Lfc'y's ticket, both taansferrable— and
Ha 1 t iubfcrjptions 8 dollars, including one ticket.-— fp r "
Single ticket i dollars. cs.
f r ur lrS L GrltCa " ukc ' ,hc 'iherty of requeOing the undl
iublcribers to fend for their tiekct. any day after of v
: j hurfday, the 15th of December, at No. 39, North vfßi
Sixth-ftrest. T
P Decrmher ic. eulti
A number of the Creditors of the late Ton,
, House of Blair M'Clcnachim and P. Moore, and of B. T
( M'Cleuachan, wishing t® have the opinion of the Credi- dcce
tor. generally on the mea(«rc» ncceflary to be pnrfued
under present circumstances propose, that a meeting (hall
1 be held on Saturday next, at n o'clock, at the City Ta
. vern, and liope for the attendance of all concerned.
1 Wedncfday, 14th December, 1796. d£a
Elegant Brussels k Turkey Carpeting, T
For sale by George Dokfon, No. 2J,South l'hird-ftreet.
December If. H,f HOI
• N
Bailiff Pennfylvahia, ijll Dec. 1796. N
The Stockholders are requested to meet —
At the Bank onThiirfday, the twenty-ninth instant, at
10 o'clock iH the morning. /%
By order of the Board, _l\.
ROBERT RALSTON, Cashier, ii^a
§ ta 9tn pro tem. . tion
Womens' Cloaks. f- r "'
tion,
GEORGE DOBSON, with
N°- South Third-street, the w
Has jnft received, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, riaLon- '>*uf<
don, an assortment of tion (
Sc "l« > the o
Drab / Cloaks trimmed with fur and trees.
Purple and Q trmine. be in!
Pearl J
December 1/. j j u
Q/MTTI Of THE VNITto SfjlTfS MARINE LIST.
06 PHILADELPHIA, December 15.
ARRIVED. Day..
Ship Newport, Robiofon, Boston ;8
Brig Rebeeca, T'liompfoß, Liverpool jo
Delaware, Dunphy, Port au-Pnnce 35
—_ Ami'nbV, Creole, M'Keever, dn. ? r
Schr. Betfcy, Holland. Sliockley, Virginia 5
| Capt. Tliompfun left L verpool 25th OAober—
about 20 fail of vefiTels left that place, bound to dif
ferent pons of the United St .tea, abput 8 day«
~ before. The Brig Sea Nymph, M'Doiipal was
to fail next day for this psrt. In the Rebeeca
came 6 pa®e ijers, among them is Capt. Bully of
the briir Alexis, of Dartmouth, (Eiijf.) who had
been taken by a Frencji privateer of 14 guns, which
Capt. Thompson fpok'e on the 22d November.
STOCKS.
l> P er Cent. . . .... 16/ioto I)
Three per Cent. ...... . , o yfc
per Cent. - - , 4 y
si per Cent. ..... ... i<sy 4
Deferred Six per Cent. . uyg to 11/^
BANK United States, ... to 30 per ct
Psnnfylvania, ... . 13 to 14 dm
— North Vnerica, .... 40<0 45 do.
Insurance Comp. N. A. (hares, . 37 I-» to 40 per ct.
-Pennfylv. % 1-1 to J per ct. below par.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, par to 175
• at 60 days, par to 170
- - ■at 90 days, i 6» 1-1 to par.
Amiterdam, 60 days, per guilder. 40
" 9° d »y»> 4*
of - —- . ISi
!u r " V/afhington Lottery.
has TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchnfed or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chcfnut
the rect > where a corredfc Numerical Book is kept for public
infpe&i6n. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex*
o j changed for prizes diawn in the Walhington Lottery, of
the an d days returns are received.
7h® Burflnefs of a Broker carried od as ufiial.
ite *** A SHARE mAe THEATRE to be fold
on reasonable terms. December 15. ttstf
Dancing.
to MR. FRANCIS of the New-Theatre, in conjunction
with Mr. Bit RN, late Ballet-mailer, and principal dai*
cerof Covent-Garden Theatre, now of the New-Theatre
—will open an Academy at Mr. Oellers Hotel, on Tues
day, December 13, where thsy propose to teach in the
moll new and approved methods, dancing in its various
:h ulelul and ornamental branches.
an Mr. Byrn's recerit attention to the dances of London
of and Paris will enable him to complete this branch of
n- education in his scholars in the moll finifhed flylev
ty Favorite Scotch reels will also engage their particular
ir- attention.
p*s < For farther particulars enquire of MefTrs. Frtneif
id and Ryrn, No. 70, north Eighth-street.
cs *»* Private tuition as usual.
e- November 30" mwfcf
2 _ FOR SALE,
■p About 1,600 acres of Land,
J_ WELL situated, laying on and between Marifc
. and Beccb Creeks, Mifflin county, Per.nfylvania, in,
four separate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
pit Win. Blackburn,
i No. 64, South S'cond-Areet. \
■d Odtober 3 r. mvr f t f
1
• James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth Jlreet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to kit
ic Friends and the Public for th»ir liberal encouragement,
r.nd begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive aflbrtment of the
Moji Fajhionabie GOODS,
And ofthe bell quality, fuitahle for the fcafon.
At this shop Gentlemen can be furniflied withthe best
/. materials, and have them made up in the nested and mod
/. FalhioniMe manner, and on the fhortcft notice. He wdl
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
>, pun&ual attention.; to them.
November 10. w ,
FOR SALE,
I A very Valuable Estate,
/~IALLED TWITTENHAM, situate in the
f. Vi township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 t-» miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
new Wedern road i containing 130 aares of excellent land,
3 45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
e land, and the reft arable of »ha firft quality. There are
e 011 the premises a good two story brick house, with 4 room*
- on a floor, and cell** under the whole, with a pump-weH
l of excellent water in front j a large frame barn, fables,
- and other convenient buildings; a smoke-house and done,
. fpring-houfc ; two cd apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are iHn clover, except those immediately
c un<i er tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
r of water in cach of them, which renders it peculiarly cou
t venient for grazing.
The Ctuation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
eultivntion of the land, the gflod neighbourhood, and rTr«
. vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman'*
! country fast.
The forogomg is part of the estate of Jacob Harmi*.
. deceedcd, and offerod for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Oil* 31. iaw Surviving Executor.
To be Rented,
A Large Vault and Cellar,
That will contain aco pipes, situate in Walnut
between Fourth and Fiftb-flrccts. Also a COACH
HOUSE and STABLE, with Stalls for five horics.
N. B. Goods Stored by the month.
November 30. mwfn
TO BE SOLD,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Gloucester, and state of New-Jersey, contain*
ing about one hundred and fifty aeres ; a suitable propor
. tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
great part of tht arable land is in a high state of cultiva
tion, and very the produAion of Red Clover.
On said plantation there is a genteel two-dory brick house,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
houfe. The garden is large, and contains a good collec
tion of the bed kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees;
the orchard confids of about three hundred grafted app'e
rrees. Auy pcrfon inclined to purchase said premises, may
be informed of the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER.
i 1Horses taken in, |
For the Winter Scafon-,
And fed on clover bay at the Subfciibers 'place, 12
miles on the Bristol Road, where good {tabling is pik>-
-vided, and great eare will b« taken of tiiem A-J
William Bell,
Nov. 43, mwfowmthtf. Br .
: SWANN'S, ~~
Riding Sfhool, Horfi Academy Ssf Infirmary. w ,.
Adjoining the Public Square, Market bireet. p.
T. SWANN Kn
"RETURNS hi® sincere thanks to those gentlemen by whom br:
lie ha* been employed, during his refideuce in this City, and
"tlattrrsliim.felf that the success of his ettoits, in the numerous, j a p
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he has
been cnnfulted, together with his moderate charges, will se
cure their futurefavors and recommendation.
He now begt 4eave to inform tiicm and the public at
that his fpacioui and corrtnodious prttnifes, ercfled for the —
purposes above described are open for the reception ol pupiis
of cither sex, who wilhto beinftruftid in the Ait of Rjding,
aud the tight methrul of governing their horses, so asto ride jt
them with cafe, elegance, and falety—their hoifcs will be
carefully and expeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and
"Uiade obedient to 'he will of the riders ; the natural po.vers
which arefhutupin them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all thole beauties of adlion which providence has so bounti
fully bellowed on them. _ .
Also, at his hofpital a every difor erto which tne porfe is or
liable wtll'be treated according to the ruies of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experierce.
The utility of the above intlitution has never been qnetlion
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
stud willmanifeft, and T. Swann as eftablilher of
the veterenary art, solicits and i-elies upon the fuppott of that
rublie (which he is ever anxious in fetving) toi enable him to
ring it to perfection. The idea of a fubicription for rfiat
purpose has been hinted by federal gentleman, v;ho wish to tl
promote the inllitution—the amount of each fubferip ion to
be returned by services in any of the depjrtments he profefTes, tJ
agreeable to the rate of charges-Oated in his hand bill. Such b
Aibfeription is now open, and the of niany refpeft- ti
able gentlemen already obtained. He therelore informs his t j
and filch Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has no: p
the honor of being known, that he lhall in a few day* take e
the liberty of waiting upon them and folicking their iuppor:
and prote&ioo. a
N B. Horses are prope*Jy prepared for those Ladies and
Gentlemen who wish to be inftru&ed. ;
Nov» $- tth&f.
The Elephant j
IS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
I rPHE public are refpeflftilly informed, tit at
X this animal 16 to be leen every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Market
ftre?t, No. 106, foufh fide, between Third and
Fortrth-ftieets.
Admittance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci- '
tizen may fee him. j
(C/* At the requtft of many persons it will be ]
exhibited on evenings from five to eight o'clock, ,
at half a dollar each.—The room will be well 1
lighted. November 7. . 1
A Short Delay
In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery,
In Wellington city, has been unavoidably occasioned
by the unforefeen intervention of Mr. Blodget's Lottery
—but as the major pait of tie tickets ;»re now difpofcd
of, this is to inform the public that the drawing of the Ca
nal Lottery will certainly commence without fail, on the
firft Monday in January 179T, and those holding ticltcts,
aje hereby retjuefted to fend a statement of those fold, and
those on hand.
NOTLY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of Duddington,
GEORGE WALKoR,
THOMAS LAW,
1 AMES BARRY,
W. M. -DUNCANSON.
Th« Printers who gave our advertif mcnts a place in
their newfpaper§, are requeHed to give this notice admis
sion.as the remaining tickets are.expe&ed to be soon above
par, and we wiSh adventurers to be timely informed
. Nov. n.
Treasury of the United States.
V] OTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
JN may be Creditors of the United States, for any lums
the F.ndfd Ditt, or Stick, hiring a pr/ftnt iitlenf of fin
ker centum py ait:turn.
1 ft, That pursuant to an Ad of Congress palled on the
48th day of April, I796,intitledan ail in addition to an
a£h intituled " An ad makinij fuithcr proton for the
support of public crsdit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the faiddebt or ftockwillbe reimhurfed and
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
u to be made on the last days of March, June and Scptem
1* er f or . the present year, and from the yelr one thousand
11 seven hundred and ninety-seven, to tlit year one thou
-41 sand eight hundred & eighteen inclulive,:it. the rate of
n one and one per centum upon toriginal capital.
<« Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of
«« December for the present year, and from the year one
** thousand seven hundred and nincty-feven, tp the year
one thoufandeigtit hundred and seventeen inclusive, at
'? the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
*• rrinal capital; and by tl dividend to he ma c on the lali
•! day of December, in the year one thousand eight hu'n
« dred and eighteen, of fucli funi, as will be then arle-
according to the ebntraft, for the %nal redemp
*• tion of th- laid stock."
id. All diftindion between payments on account of
Tntcreft and Principal being thus abolished by the eftablifhn
ment of the permanent rule of reimbrrfement above de
cribed, it has become rteceflary to vafy acc»rdingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends ; th. public
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
seftablifhedfor all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that
*
do maie, cortJiitule and appoint
tj my true and lawful At~
torn V. fsme, and in my name T to recti'je the dividends ivbicb are, 1
or Jball ke payable, according to lata, on the (hert describing the
jlandina in my name in the books of (here defer ihrilg* the I
books, of the Treasury or the Gommifiioner of Loans, j
where the stock is credited) from (here uifcrt the com- ;
mencement and expiration of time for which .the.power of
attorney is.to continue) ioilbpower also a/t attorney or attor
miis under that purpose to make andfuhjlitute, end to do all
Jazv/ul a&s requiftlcfor effecting the prcmifs, hereby ratify in<r an>i
eon firming all that myfa'd Attorney or hisfubflitutc ,fball lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof.
In lYitnefs hereof y I have forevnto set my Hand and Seal thi
day of in the vear
Seated and Delivered
in preface of
BE PT KNOIVN, that on the day of
if. re ne pirfonally came
v.iibin named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be
iu aSI and d.ed.
In teflimony voberaf J have hereunto set my Han i end affix
ed Seal the day andyear lap afonjaid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pyrfuant to direAions
from the Secretary 0} the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Iretftrer of the United States.
Jvlytt' w tij
James- M-ufgrave,
GOLDSMITH & JEWELLER, *
No. 42, fou.h Second-ft'reet, a j e
HAS just received an assortment of Plated Ware
and Jewellery, Plated Tea and CoiTeaUrns, CuO.e
Pot«, Tea ditto, Castors from 5 to 8 Bottles, Sugar and
Cream Basons, Bottle Stand?, Balkets, high Candleftics,
Brackets and Chamber ditto, Branches, Sconces a variety
of Silver and Plated Shoe La'cheta, Spurs, tsfc.isfc. watr
ranted of the best plate; Ladies and Gentlemens Gold
Watch Chains, Seals and Keys ; Necklaces, Neck Chains, V
Eear H»ngs, Finger Rings, Lockets, Ercaft Pin&, Stone t\\>
Kn«e-Buckles, with many other a*trclei in the above a (
branches. tOE
He has likewise received an extensive ajTortment or
japann r d tea and coffee Urns, perfun, blue, brown,
black and gold.
All kinds of wr»rk inthe gold and silver line; minia
tures set, and hair work executed aii usual.
November <). tu. th & f
Any Person
Who is well acquainted with the River
MISSIS I P P I,
And will give Diredlions for faili-ig mtd the fame,
that can be depended on, (hall be genarouily reward
ed for his information, provided h< will leave the
dire<ftioii9 with Mr. John Fenno, printer, Philadelphia,
or Edmund M. Blunt, Newburyport.-
November 3. q.
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
in
r "piCKETS in the Canal Lotlcry, No. a, for sale—a
A. Check Book for examination —and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Cheek Books kept for examination and rr j-iftering, for
the City of Washington, No. 2, and Partefon Lotteries,
both of which arc' now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf,. Hotel and Public for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the Application of the public
and his friends, who wifti to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, lioufet, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property-
V Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Ldttery for |
sale at Ten Dollars each, which will b« early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
. Phrladelphia, Augufl 18, 1 * mt^
1 Brokers Office, and
COMMISSipN STORE.
- No. 6 s South Third ftrtet-oppofite the national new Bank. , s
SAMUEL M FRAUITciiS and JOHN VAN REED, |
have entered into co-partnerfliip, under the 6rm of ] -
c FRAUNCES & VAN REED, bufinef, of, Brokers, i
' Conveyancersand Commifiion merchants. I hey buy and 4
1 fell on commiflion every fpccies of stock, notes of hand, -
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &e. t
Money procured.on depoftts, &e. &c. all kinds (''
writings in the conveyanciiig line, done with neatness and 1
dispatch; accounts adjuiled, and books fettled, in the t
most correit manner. Constant attendance will be given, f
d They solicit a share of the public favor ; they ;.re deter- t
y mined to endeavour to deserve it. i
d N. B. The utmost feereey observed. 1
SAMUEL M. niAUNXES,
r JOHN VAN REED. ,
b, Phllad. A.gufl 17, 1796. ir.&wtf 1
: —; —:
City cf Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No.tl,
FOR THE IMPROfUnEfiT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
' n A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & ?
vdwclHng-houfc, j cafl> 30,000, are > '
1 ditto i/,000 & calk 25,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5, cOO & cash 5,000 *0,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 io,oco
1 cash prize of 10, poo
% do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. r,ooo - • 10,000
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
in 00 do. 100 - - 10,000
k e 2iX) do. 50 10,000
h c 4CO do. 25 - *0,000
l»ooo do. 20 - 20,000
ds 15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
n- 1 ■' ■
ad 16,739 Prizes.
u " Blanks.
al. 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
of
ne N. B. To fivour those who may take a quantity of
Tickcts, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
at ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
r '- And approved notes, securing payment in either money
aft
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be for
n ~ any number not lels than 30 tickets.
* e - This Lottery wifcl afford an elegant specimen of thepri-
L P _ vate buildings to be ereAed in the City of Washington—-
Two beautiful designs are already fcledled for the entire
°f fronts on two of the public squares; fcom theft prawings
it ispropofed toereel two centre and f*»ur corner biiFdinjrg,
e_ as soon as polfible after this lottery is fold, anji to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, ic
'lie the mannerdeftribed in the fchemc for the Hotel Lottery.
rm A nett dedu<9tion of five per cent, will be made to defray
be the necessary expenses of printing, the ftirplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
hat University, to be erecled within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.—The raoney prizes will be payable in thirty d?ys
dt- after it i 6 finifhed ; and any prize* for which fortunate
ire y numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the
the drawing isclofed, are to be confidared as given towards
the the fun«l for the University ; it being determined to fettle
ns, the whole business iri a yaar from the ending of the draw
m- ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
■of The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
l or- are held by the Prefiaent and two Dire#ors of the Bank
all of Columbia, and are valued at more than half tl»e a
%nd mount of the lottery. '
r ul- The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of |
the late Commissioners aflifted in the management of the
tbi Hotel Lottery are requeft«d to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jects may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
jbe Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are assured that tha
fix- drawing will speedily commcnae, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
en- tha tickets, has rendered the fhor* suspension indifpenlabla.
ons SAMUEL tiLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the B-ink of Columbia ; of
James Weil & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Bolton :
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Walls'
1 Cooper's Ferry.
SALT PETRE.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre <or p L
sale at No. 25, South Tbird-ftreef.
Noveaiher
_I : Ki
WafhmgtonCamil Lottery, p
NO. (•
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has -authofiftd D
the underwritten, to taife twenty-fix thousand, .
two hundred, and fifty dflttstrs, for the purpofc ot cutting
a Canal through th? City of Waihlngton, froxi th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHKME of No. I.
Vis 'i Prize of 20,000 dollars, 00,000 _
l ditto 10,000 10, COO
7 Uft<Wnl 35,000
Tickets, each J
6 ditto 1,000 £ 6,000 v
10 ditto 400 4,000
20 ditto 100 a,OOO
55 ditto JO 2,75°
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for tke Cana! ! , 26,25©
.. . — o
5§50 Prizes, I75» 000 y
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize. cl
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175*000 ;ii
The Commiflioncrs havo taken the Securities re
quirei by the aforcfaid a<st lor the punctual payment o« v
the rrizes. 'J
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as thr Tickets are fold, of which timely fl
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finilhed, shall be consider d as relinquished for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signt.'j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANiEL CAUUOLL,o/D. {
/ LEWIS DEBLOIS, £
, GEORGE WALKER, ,
WM. M. DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW, *
JAMES BAfyRY.
City of Wa(hipgi.on, Feb. 11. $
Paterion Lottery.
FOR raising fix thousand fix hundred and fiity-fevcn
dollars and fifty cSnts, by a deduction of ltftcen ycr
ccnt from the prizes, and not two blanks to a rnza. viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars jooo
X 1000 1000
1 500 500
aoo ioco
zo 100 * 000
99 JO 495°
aoo 15 socs
.' 3000 ftojooa
1, j 5 Last drawn numbers of rooo dollars each, 5000
f j
; , i '233Z Prizes. 44i4J0
d 4010 Blanks.
1,
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44>45°
' jy order of the Directors of the Socicty for eftablith
d ing Ufeful Manufailures, the fupermtanuarlts of the Pat
•e ejlon Lottery have requested tlie Managers to offer the
i- foregoin;; S.'heme to the public, and have directed thein
> to refund'the money to thafe persons who lave purchased
in th* former Lottery, or axchange the tickets for tickets
n this Lottery.
The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lid ot the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
' south Second flreet, who will grve information where tick
ets may b« procured.
Dated thii 17th day of Jv.ne,
J. N- GUMMING, 7
JACOB K. HARDENBERG, >■ Managers.
' JONATHAN RHEA, J • )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
j Prize of 5000 - 50OC
1 1000 • 1000
I joo - - • s°°
5 100 - 1000
20 100 •» * 2COO
,90 *© " " " 45 00
165 25 " - - " 4125
The Ave last drawn tickets, 1000 e«ch, jo®«
Being all the valuable prizes, betides a full propor
tion oi the 10 dollars.
' As the Lottery is considerably more than one third
drawn, the 'value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly ihcreafed, and it is worth the notice of those
who hold tickets in theold fchemc, that they can ex
change t-heir tickets for thoie in the above, if tiiey ap
ly icon, and at a moderate advance co«fidering the
now real value of an undrawn tickets
The tickets beirfg nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be oftener, and' the Lottery soon finifhed.
November 12. raws
By Authority,
of
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
m Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Secondjlrect.
- SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
* For raising bixty Thousand Dollars, agrembly to an Aft o!
, ihe Leg 1 (laiure of Pennfyivaaia, palled dining the Jaft
' frftion. for bailding a Stone Bridge over the River
e y Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in ihe County of
1D Berks. Dollars.
r Y' t Priae of 20,000 Dollara - • ao,ooe
1 do. of io.ooo do. - - »0,000
l ui 3 rto. of 5,000 rto. - 1 ' - - 1,5,000
4 do. of «,000 do. - - 8,000
20 do. of 1,000 do. - . - 20,000
ire 39 do. of 500 do. - - \9*6°°
80 do. of aoo do. - - - i6,0c0
ate 200 do. of icq do. - - 20,00 c
the 300 do. of $0 do. - - »5.000
rds i do. of 500 do to be paid the posses- £
rtjg for ®f the firtf drawn no. £
w - 5 do. of 3,000 do. to be paid polTcffors )
of the five lad drawn nos $ •*'
:es. 9,4©0 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000
10,054 Prizes 300,000
10,046 Wanks
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prizes Ihah be paid fifteen days after the dra wrr.g is
finifhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
im tickct, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
tlie Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are difpoftd
°k- of, or perhaps sooner. of which public »otice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjlner, Williavi IVitman,
thC HttflWi James Diemer % Thomas Dumlas,
ths Jame r May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel CraeJ,
and SebapanMilter, Commissioners.
of Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
bit. Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, to be had at the
above office, where the earlitft information of the draw
; of ing of the Walhington No. •, and Patterfon Lottery\
on : are received, and chfitkb®oks f«r ctarniiuition and regif
ills' tering are kepi.
Odober 7. aawtf
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENT IST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Demi ft to the
King and Royal family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Pari#*
Keeps a complete aflbrtment of every thing neceflary
to be used for the
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice ifi powder; Opiate; exc-ellent Elixir for
fwectening the month and preserving the teeth —he
also furnilhes Brushes and foft Sponges.
* # * He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
Fourth-flreet.
November 26. tti
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open his school on Mon
day the 31ft uift. at ten o'clock in the morning, at hi»
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefuut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
the fame days. •
In addition to a number of new cotillioas, he means to
(introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firtt pra&ifißg ball to be on Tu-efday e
vening, the firfl of November, and to be continued every
Tucfday, during the feal'oll.
For terms, See, en-quire at hi 6 house, N0.134, Market
ftrcet.
OA. 17. tthf
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANpLE ManufaSory, situate
in a convenient part ot the city ; the works almolk new,
on an entirely original couftru&ion, and built of ihe bell
materials, and may be fit to work immediately. Pecfons
whowifhto purcliafe, are requeued to apply at No 273,
South Second Sircet. September 13. tt f tf
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AWAY from the iubferiber on the 23 J O&obsr,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES.; 21 years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable !ie may change
? his name and dress. He has been actuiiomed to driving
J a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will fee
3 paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get him
5 again, and if brought )xo:\ e all reasonable charges paid by
j Robins Chamberlahie.
•) Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 £jmiawtf
3 Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlempn
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia.
5 The Jaubfeription Room will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, Nsw-York, Bof
~ ron, Baltimore, together with those of the principal coir*
E mercjal citics of Europe—They will be regularrly filed
1 and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
1 Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
s of Frcnch Liquors; together with the usual refreftynent#,
will at all times be procured at the bar*
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated witb
s the choiccft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
4 approved Malt Liquors frorr.London and o'her breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
productions of the Scafon.
J_.argc and fmnll Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
■' hours most convenient to thcmfelves—a cold Collation is
regularly k<pt for coaveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at tho bar. »
n The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniflied, and
~ the utmoil attention paid to clearalinefs, and every other
Q requisite.
Samuel Richardet will be happy to receive, and
° execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
3 large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
G himfelf that nothing on his part fhali be wanting to pic
•s fervcthat patronage with which he has been so distinguish*
0 ingly honored.
Philadelphia. April 19. mwf
Treasury Department,
k September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofalx will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the firfl day of March nent en
ie suing, for thefupply of all rations which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
n Tune, 1797, to the thirty-firll day of May, T798, both
days Inciufive, at the places and within the diftricis here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
_ Pacftjue Me; at Satidufky Lake, and on Sandu'flcy
River ; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin ; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jcfierfon ; at Grenville; at
Picquc Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayue; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at ForfcMaflac ; at any place from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of the United States on the rivsr
Mifiilippi; at Fort Knox ;.at Ouiatanon.
If fupplics {hall be required for any post; ir laces not;
01 mentioned in this notice, all such supplies Wll be fur-*
aft uiihed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
cr pods before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
of between the United States and the Contra&or.
rs * The rations to be fuppljcd are to cotifitt ef the foK
30 lowing articles, viz.
30 One pound two ( ounces of bread or,flour.
30 One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
00 pork or bacon,
00 Half k gill of rum, brandy cr whiskey.
One quart and half a pint of falt."^
~i t™ srsr' 1p" <*«
One pound of Candles, J
:o The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities, as that
rfiere Ihall at all times during the said term, be fuflicient
30 for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, Dt>
>0 troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month'-# in
— advance, and at each of the other ports, for the term of
do at least three months in advance, in good and 'wholesome
— provisions, if the fame shall be required. It is to be un
derftojd, that the Contra&or isio be at the ex*ente and
00 risk of issuing the fupplias to the troops at each poll, and
' 5 that all Jofies fullained by the depredations of an enemy, or
,lc by means of the troops of the United States, fhali be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
ta the depolitions of two or more persons of creditable cha
:n' racers, and the certificate of a commiflioncd ofliccr, at
certaining the circumflances of the loss, and the amount
of the ai tides for which compensation fball be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
;he tmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
? s PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO f
: if —No. 119—
CM FSNUT-STREE T.
r [Pricc Fight Dollars par Annum-]