/ ; • ... a 7 P ~
oj the %
& Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Y , If WEDNESDAT EVENING, AUGUST to, 3796. [Volvm* X.
— ; : ; ~ T-.a , UNITED STATES, ") nr
Jamaica pints.
JU3T arrived, will be landei on Tuesday n xi, at
Stamper's wharf, a' few puhcheocs high'p'roof Jamaica
■Spirits. F° r Sale b y ®
James Brown, A
4 No. 119 South SecooH-ftreet. y*
Who offers for Sale or Charter, thi
r*""[V_ "i'i.c Brig po
M A R 2, «
fc* / '-£j, BURTHBN about 800 .barrelv-ia- months- '
old •vil' 4t __
For Madeira,^
James Wickham. Matter,. ||j
Expc«sled t.O fail in all next week, J
WIl L take a tew barrels on freight. Apply to she mas- bo
ter 00 board at Stamper*s wh*rf, or to foi
John Donnaldfon,
No. 2? Walnut-ftrect.
* ~ ~ " —
• For Boston,
SbST Friendftiip,
Joseph Mathe«s, Matter,
A stout, (launch vessel—will positively fail on ?atur,
day nert, and will take freight on very low terms. %
Enquire of the matter on board at Hodge s wharf.
Aug;- 8 ... —.— —— J
A well-finiftied, commodious q
house . fe 0 *
1 For Sale, and immediate pojfejion -given, ™
SITUATED the north fide of Spruce-ftsjcet, No. vtt,
between Fourth and fifth streets. Thelwufe, piarra
and back buildings are three (lories in height, end pet fedtj
ly well adapted for the accommodation of a large family,
as they contain twelve good rooms, exclusive of two ciel
ed garrets. In (he yard, which is neatly paved, there are
two pumps ; one in a rain cittern, the other of as good
water as any in the city i The cellars are dry and large.
The terms of payment will be easy : a great part ol tire —
purchase-money in all probability may lay for years Qn n>
tereft. Apply at No. 109, next deor eattw ard.
July 3° s^--—-
Philaaelphia, Weft-Che far, Strajburgh,
LancaHer, fork and Frederick-town
STAGES
THE proprietors of (he sbove Stages, return their best
JL thanks to Uieir friends and the public in general, for |
the encouragement received in this line of bufinefs.andbeg
y leave to inform the public, that they are determined to run -
their stages through from Philadelphia to Lancaster in (o
one day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July mttant, v;
in tl)e following manner, —vix. A JJtage willfet out on
that day at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the house ol
George Weed, Market-street, Philadelphia, and run by
the way of Weftcnefter and Strafburgh, arrive in Lancas
ter the fame evening, on Friday morning run to Wright's -
terry and exchange pzffengars with the York and Fredej
ick-town stage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat
urdav, antkon Monday mormyjjallOwinff. at 4 o'clock, _
said Sue willfet TuTfrofiithelwdOeorgeWteir*, rtrtta-■ 5
delphia, and arrive at I-aucader the fame evening, on <w
Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack wUI set out from thc house
*0f Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive 111 Philadelphia
the fame evening, and will commence again oil Thsrfday
morning following, and continue every week—The price
for each passenger from Philadelphia to Lancaster » three
dollars and a half, to York, fptir dollars find three quar
ters, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like sums for
I to'weight baggage, with thi usual allowance of T4 lb. „
gratis to each passenger, and 5 pence a mile for all way oi
, passengers. 30-§4W F '
John R eilly,
George Weed. A
elephan 1.
7'his Animal is to be seen in High-Street, between
the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street.
HE will positively leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep
tember, for Baltimore, in his Way to Charleston,
where he will win'er.
ADMI CTANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar
' for Children.
'I he PANORAMA, or the. VIEW of the CITIES of ■
LONDON and WESTMINSTER,
Is to be open till the roth of September, and the fuh
jea will then be removed to Baltimore With die ELE
PHANT.
ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA,
One quarter of a Dollar.
August 3. _ H
UNITED STATES, 7
P<£nns ri va nia Dismicr, 5
Notice is hereby given,
THAT pursuant to a Writfo me direfled, from the ho- .
iiorable Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the Di-'
stria Court of the United States in and far the Pennfylva- £
nia Diitria, 3
. ' Will be exposed to Sale,
at the Custom-House, on Monday, the 15th day of Au
gust, ) 3 Bags of COFFEE
I Bbl. SUGAR
1 Half do. do.
2 Do. do. TAMARINDS
% Kegs do.
« • a Bags of Sugar and
, 3 Do. Coffee
Th? fame having beta libelled against. profeeuted, and
condemned as forfeited, in thefaid court*
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
Marshal's Office, 30th July, 1796. '
TAKE NOTICE,
-T-.HAT application u ill be rpade for thr renew»l<of 1 f
X the following certificates, iffired by Joftph Nourfe,
Kegifter of the Treofury, iu the name ot" Roger O/il
wold, Esq. of Norwich, ConneiSicUt—
1 certificate, fix per cent domestic (lock, No. 13,907
—dated the 17th December, 1795, bearing interest from
the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65-'°° dol
-1 ditto, thre« per cent, domestic flock, No. 10,68)
r-d itad December 16, 1795, bearing interest from the
firft day of January, 179J, for 994 30-100 dollars.
1 ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th
December, 1795, bearing interest from the firft Janu
ary, ißol> for 798 83-100 dollars.
Said certificates are fuppoied to liave been loft or
fto'en in this otv some time in December or January
lall.
JOSEPH THOMAS,
No. 59, North Front-street.
' Philadelphia, July 21, 1796- ,
i
For Rotterdam,
t The ftip I 'h
1 Catharine, f
John Fahraday, Mafitr,
v'-yfirft T'WO thirds of her cargo Will be on |
board this week. The remaining I
third.wi!l be taken on freight if offered soon, as she will 1
positively fail in all next week. A few passengers can be j
well accommodated. For terms of freight" of patfage, 1
apply to the captain on board at Mr. Thaddle's wftarf, or I
> to , i JOHN CRAIG,
AUgi 8 § No. 12 Dock-llreet. 1
For Sale,' Freight, or Charter,
The Scho«ncr I
jSmL ANGELICA,
hundred and twenty tons burthen — I
Jjp£|gsyj £l x old, a staunch, faithfully- I
- built, vessel, handsomely finilhed off, and Well I
found in every particular. terms apply to I
w , B. RHODES, } c
On board said schooner, lying at Bickley and Bohjcn's 1
•wharf, the firft above Market-street.
Where there are for sal*,.
A few half -bbls. Prime Mess Beef,
34 _ _ §_
For Sale, ;i
Or for Charter tothe WeH-lndies,
c k h k"e s,
Philadelphia Built,
g Live Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 3500 bar- J
rels, now discharging at Latimer's wharf, rhisver-l
' (elis in excellent repair, wellfouud-and will bear a tlw>- I
rough examination, and as soon as difchafged wiH be tea- I
' «ly to take in a cargo. For terms apply to J
!' t John Vaughan.
tg July 18 §_
?• For JEREMIE, |,
S The schooner Hope, ,
» Brig Bet ley. |
THEY are fall-failing veflels, and have elegant accommo- I c
dations. For paflage only, apply t® j >
~ Richard & James Potter, 1
Aug. 5 § No. 8 north Front-llreet. I .
For Sale or Charter,
•ft the snow
■g 4M BOSTON,
in , | f
BURTHEN about 1000 Bbls. of flour—lke may be tent I ;
111 to sea at a small erpetice, her fails and rigging being in I j
very good order—apply to i
o" fames Campbell, or '
>y George Latiiher.
i' s April 29, § I
j- Juil Arrived,
In the Ihip Molly, John F'Oft, Matter, from Liverpool. I
5000. Hnrti<?la Best fine ftoved SALT,
,n 600 HOU"iE COAL, 1
fe And r»BCrates of QUEENS WARE afforif <:.,
ia FOR SALE BY
»y Philip Nicklin & Co.
" -v - N. B. THE SAID
- Shi P MOLLY,
or TS for SALE or CHARTER, (he is 5
tb. A years old, Philadelphia built, of Mfhite I
ay oak, was well failed »-nd carries about 4800 barrels of Flour. I
For'terms apply as above.
July 83 dtf I
This Day commenced Landing,
_ At V ifflins wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop I
St. JagO.fromSt. JagodeCuba—confining of
White and Brown Box SUGAR.
en MpLASSpS, of an excellent quality.
COFFEE. |
■p- HIDES and H6NEY. Also,
, For Sale or Charter.
lar The brig LUC Y, . I
A ft°ut, strong vessel, will carry a- I
xV- bout HCO barrels, and may go to j
r 1 with a very small expense.
J V lite above will be fold for calh or approved notes.
,E " Samuel Emery,
■ No. 64, south Second-street. I
July ay, 796. dtf.
L For HAMBURGH,
THE $HIP
f -jTyi^y'Robert Jackson, Mailer, I
' lo " To fail in fifteen days,
Di-' *"^^ k -*^* two-thirds of her cargo en- I
va- • gaged and ready to j-o on board. For freight or paflage I
apply to the matter oir board at Wain's wharf, or to
John Donnaldfon,
u " No. 24 Walnut-lhcet.
July it. ■ §Scots
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut 1
street, between Front and Second streets, in which
Meffls. James G»lbraith & Co. have for many year» (and
now dp) carried on business.
811 PoflefUon will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
'• HECTOR CALBRAITH.
_ April 21. 5
los Wm. HOLDERNESSE, |
rfe, No. 76 High Street,
}j-ij TTAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
XJL the East Indies, a well feledled affortmcnt of S.'k
o 0 - Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdalhery Goods; which
•om he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowed terms ;
Jpj, AMONGST WHICH ARE,
(•o Some sins India muslins embroidered with gold and fiiver
f | lc Superfine Book, Jacnnet, and Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
' 1 Someextrablack taffetiee,lut«ftringsand colored Persians
' Bandano Handkerchiefs
lliu " Loug and (hort Nankeens
Englilh Mantuas of the firft qnahty
? r Damaflc table linen and naphins, very fine
ia -y Silk Hofitry, an elegant aflbrtmsnt
The*'' and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
v. IrUb Linens, do. &c. Sic. June 14 §
/
Just Arrived | U p'
In th brig Betsey, from Jeremie, and for sale by in
the fvblcriWers. * 1
Forty thousand wt. of very prime Coffee
in hoglhead&and bags
And, in the fchoener Hope, from New Orleans.
BEEF
COTTON \A
IUDES and ..'
\ LOGWOOD. ,!
h liberal credit will be given fier Approved Notes. 1 j u jj
Richard and James Potter. 1 I altel
I*r»- ■ : ; OL p p s;
Just Arrived,
In the Snow BoftUn, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li- I
vis pool, [/ |
<000 Bulheli SALT ; ' I .
100 Crates MTEENS WARE ; and
An Aflbitment of SHIP CHANDLERY i e]
F O R S A L E | r(
On board, at Pind-ftreet wharf. Apply to I t)
fames Campbell, or | t<
George Latimer. J pr ®
April »9- * I pre!
FOR SALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, I '
in pipes and hogffleads I en
Claret, genuine old, in cases I an( j
Gin, in pipes, from Holland sn( )
Earthen Ware, iterates I phi
Basket Salt, in hoglheads said
Shot, Nos. 6, 7,' 1 and 9 I to 1
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead j riz<
Steel, German and Russia, in barrels J the
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpfthn canvas, I £
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by | cef
THOMAS & JOHN ing
Jiei - r —„ S
Twenty Dollars Reward.
WAS STOLEN, lad evening, from the pasture of the
fubrcriber, a black Rockingham GELDING, 15 I
1-2 hands high, has a star, and some white under his j
throat, (the part being formerly chafed) ;has a leather on I
his neck, the mane on the near fide, his foot-locks fretted I .
with a 1 clog, and i* a horse of much bone and size. Who- 1
ever secures him with the thief, Ihall have the above re- I
ward, or for the Horse alone a very generous compenfa- I
tion. JQHN LAWRENCE.
Inly 7 eo * w I
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
agreeably- to ao aft of Coogrefa of the U/»rcd
Stales of America, palled at Philadelphia, the «Brb day I
of Mav, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, far the convey- J
ance of perlons, and repealing the former acts for that pur- I
oofe.—That ihere fhalt be levied, collected and paid, upon I pn
all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which (hall be I rec
kept by or for tny person, for his or her owl die, or to let I vn
out to hire, or for the conveying of paffengeri, the several du- I
ties and rates following, to wit. | de
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols. I e / £ •
upon every Chariot, 12 dols. I p r
upon every Poll Chariot, 11 dolt< I » Q ,
upon every Post Chaise, ildols. I"p f
nprt" riuc (jj) v wiik .vr w iiKout lop, 90°" I
upon every Coachee, 9 doss. I
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work aobve, I
with blinds, glaffesor curtains, '9 dols. j
upon four wheel carriages, having framed polls artd I
top 3 with steel springs, 6 dols. !
upon four wheel top Carriages, with w.oden or uon I
springs or jacks, j dols.
Upon curricles with tops, 3 dols*
4 upon chaises with lops, 3 dols. f
upon chair* with tops, 3 dols.
ujon talkies with tops, 3 dels.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols. I —
upon two wheel tarriagej, with steel or iron springs, I
3 dols.
For and,,upon all other two wheel carriages, » ool», n I _
upon every four wheel carriage, naviog framed poits I I
and tops, an<J refliug upon wooden spars, a dftls. I 1
The Collcftors of the Revenue of the firft survey 01 the w
Dillriftof PennfyWania, will attend daily, until the 30th day I a
of September next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on X
Carriages, at No. 117.in Race or Saffafrai street, in the City I
tff Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Efq in the j -p
County of Montgomery; and at the house of Abraham Du- R
bois, Esq. in the County of Bucks; of which all persons pol • j
felled of such Carriages are desired to take notice.
Notice is also given, j
TO aM retail dealers in Wines 'nd foreign diflilled spin- I
t6ous liquors, that licentes will b? granted to them ; one ll I
cence for carrying on the business of retailing of Wines, in a I
lef| quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one I
licence for carrying on the bufiuels of retailing Spirituous ll- j /
qaors in less quantities than ao gallons, at the fame time and I
at the fame p the officers legally authorized to grant
such licences, I 11
~ WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeflor of the Revenue of the firft survey I -
of the diflrift of Pennsylvania.
Office of Infpefltoii, at ?
Pbila3elphia, sift July, 1796. > . I
Bank btock.
: A number «f Shares of- the 6tock of the Bank of the t
United Sttttes, for sale. I a
Enquire of the Cafcier of the said Bank. . j t
AUg-9 2L- j
Wanted,
A Partner with a small capital to unite in the business j
of a Mill and Diftillerj in Virginia. Inquire of
1 the Printer. Aug. 9 § IW I
1 Landing
From on board the Nancy, William Belcher, maf-1
ter, from Bourdeaox, a cargo, confining of— I
360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET,
.232 Cafe# of 14 bottles each CLARET,
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
BRASSY, SWEET OIL, and
j i TRUNK of RIBBONS, I
t For Sale by j
* ,F. Coppinger.
July 23. dtf- I
r FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN away frorrt the fubferibet living near Church I
Hill.Qu''en 4ftns'County in the State of Maryland' I
about the firit of January laft,ablack negro man, named I
Sam, about thirty years of age, .; feet 8 or 9 inches high, j
has a crooked finger on one hand, and one leg'and foot I
fmallerthan the other, fomcwhat rOund-fhbuldered, his I
cloathing unknown. Any person who will secure «r |
bring said fellow home, so that 1 may get him again lhall I
have the above reward with reifonable charges. 1
WILLIAM JACOBS. I
I June 4. "la-.ram, 1
UNITED STATES, /r
Pennsv LVANiA'DimucT, J
IN THE NAME AND BY THE AUTHORITY
OF THE UNITED STATES,
By ir ILL IA M NIC HOLS,
Marshal of the Pennsylvania Diftrifi, —
A PROCLAMATION.
XTTHEREAS the Cengrcfs of the United States, at
VV the firfl session of the fourtj Congrtfs, to wit, on
I ihe twelfth rfaj of May last pail, piffini an ail, to repeal
[so much of M} aft, inti'aled " an a$ to eftabliffi th«
I judicial Coorts ef the Uhitea Sfate»", as di're& 9 that the
alternate sessions of the Circuit Court for the Diltri& q£
Pennsylvania, (hall be holden at Yorktown ; and for ether
purposes, in the follov ing words, to wit.
Fourth Corigrefs of the United States :
I At the firfl feffioh, begun and held at the city of Phila
-1 delphia, in the State of Pennsylvania. on Monday, the
I feverith W December, ons thousand seven hundred and
I ninety-five.
I An A& to repeal so mucb of an a ft, intituled " an a<ft t»
I eftablifli the judicialcourts of the United States", asdi-
I rests that alternate sessions of the said circuit court ior
the diftriit of Pennsylvania (hall lis holden at Y»rk-
I town ; and for other pur, ofes.
Sed. I. BE it enabled by the Senate and House of Re-
I prefentatives of the United States of America, in C6»-
I grefs assembled, That so much of the fifth fedtion of the
1 a<S, intituled "an adl to establish the judicial courts of
I the United States", asdirefts that alternate sessions of the
I circuit court for the diftrid of Pennsylvania lhail be hold-
I en at Yorktown, be, and the fame is hereby repealed ;
1 and that all the sessions of the laid circuit court fha.ll, from
I and after the palling of this a<st, be holden at the city of
I Philadelphia, excepting? only, when at any session of the
I said court, the judges thereof (hall direil th« next session
I to be holden at Yorktown , which thdy are hereby autfto
j rized and empowered to do, whenever it (hall apptar t«
I thenvro heneceffary.
I SeA, 11. And be it further enafled, That all such pro
[ cess of the said court, as may have issued before the pass-
I ing of this &<X, and all recognizances returnable, and all
I fitstft ami other proceeding!) that were continued to ,th« • 1
I said circuit court for the diftriA of Pennsylvania, on the
I eleventh of October next, in Yorktown, Ihall now bere-
I turned, and held continued, to the fame court, on the
I fame day, at Philadelphia. And to the end that suitors,
I witnesses, and all others concerned, may have notice of
I the alteration hereby made, the Mailhal of the said dip-
I tridl is hereby required te make the fame known, by pre-
I clam at ion, on or before the firft day of Aiguft next.
Jonathan Dayton,
Speaker »f the House of R eprefelitatives.
Samuel Livermore,
President of the Senate, pro tempore.
I Approved, May the twelfth, 1796,
Gforoe Washington,
President of the United States'.
I Deposited air,org the Rolls, in the Office of the Dcpaifr
-1 I meet of State,
< I Timothy Pickering,
■ I Secretary of Stite.
I DO HEREBY MAKE KNOWN, that all iuch
* I process of the said court as has, or may be issued, and ..11
" L recognizances retcYiraJle at Yorhwn afori&id, on the eU
-1 I ventb day of Otttier next, will be returned to the Circuit of
• [ theljpited States, atthiCity Hall, in the city of Jhila- •
I dolphin, onTuefday, the eleventh day of O&ober next, Ft
I tl.-veno'clock in the forenoon, "And that all l'aits and oilier
| proceedings that w. continued iu ihenCafd court at York-
I town, will be held and centinoed at the said Circuit
LZCourt, at Philadelphia, on the fame ElneiJt day of Oilo
| tcer of wHich all persons concenlj'd art JfirrtcTTa
■ • 1 tajte notice, and give their attendance thereat.
GIVEN under niy hand, at my office, in the District
i I of Psriufylvania, the twenty-seventh day of July,
I ih the year of our Lord one thousand seven hifn
n I dred and ninety-fix, and of our Independence the
■ twtnty-firft.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Mdrjbal.
I July 27 Siw
5 ' Asjheton and James Humphreys
CONVEYANCERS,
Is TTAVE removed their office to No. 61, Walnut-llreet,
1. I IX next door but two to the"porner of Deck-llreet,
«e where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn at
iy I a moderate charge, with care, accuracy and dispatch.—
in They likewise boy and fell Resfl Estates upon commif
lY I fions, and procure Money upon Loan on good fecuritv.
,e I The bufmefs of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NOTA
i' RY PUBLIC is also tranfadled at the said office as usual
by ASSHETON HUMPHREYS.
| N.B. Good Notes discounted.
I July 5- eo6w
U Prime Rice.
M j One- Hundred Tierces of Prime Rice,
nt I Just arrived in the brig Welcome Return, from Savan-
I nah, far sale by FOOTMAN & CO.
Aug. 6 c
ey :
Waflungton Canal Lottery,
N°, I.
I 'TTrHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
I VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
I two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
I a Canal through the City of Waffiington, from th tPo ;
I tomac to theEaftern Brlnch Haruour.
— I The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
I Viz -I Prize of 20,000 dollars, 10,000
I 1 ditto 10,000 10,000
£ f s I 7 last drawn ">
°f j Tickets, each j 35»0°0
6 ditto 1,000 6,00 a
jo ditto 400 4,000
I 40 ditto, xoo a,oo®
I JJ ditto jo 1,750
J J 750 ditto l» 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,150
5850 Prizes, I7Ji°oo
I J1650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17J00 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
j The Commissioners have taken the Securities r»J
I paired by the aforefaid aS for the puniSual payment of
I the frizes,
f. 1 The drawing of this Lottery will commence, withouE
— | delay, as soon as the Tickets ace fold, of which timely
, . I notice will be given.
rch 1 Suchprizes 'as are not demanded in fix months after th*
|]( j, j drawing is finilh'ed, (hall Be confidercd a» relinquished for
j I the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
«T (SigT'cdj NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, »/D.
v i 6 ] LEWIS D£BLO!S,
, r GEORGE WALKER,
Mil I W*. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
. I JAMES BARRY.
I City of Washington, Feb. 11.
-J *' -■ c ' .V - , ' .% • »• •'».
Auction Sales.
This Evening, ?
At 7 o'clock, £
WlLfc BE SOl.rf BY AUCTION, at the Coffee- u
House, the following
"> > Building Lots, in the City. |J
No. I. A Lot ojj the north fide of Filbert-street, at the tr ,
* v — dift'nce of about 180 feet from the North-Haft cor-
N < tier of Tenth and Filbart-ftreet, and extending north
wardly 140 feet, to where an 18 feet allc? is intended
to br opened.
No. 2. A lot East of and idling lot No. I, 10 feet
front on Filhert-ftreec, and extending 140 feet, to the T
said intended alley. •
Nn. 3. A lor Eail of and adjoininj No s, and. ot the •<
fame dirtienfiohs. w
No, 4. A lot East of and adjoining No. 3, a»d of the ur
sam« dimensions. , ,
No. 5. A lot East of and adjoining No. 4, and of the
fame dimensions. • .
No. 6. A capital lot, on the north-eift c»rn«r of Tenth
and Filbert street*, being 20' feet on Tenth and 100 feet
011 Filbert-street. ,
No. 7. A'lot north" of and adjoining No. 6, and of the
fame dimensions
No. 3, 9 & 10.-Three lots, north of and adjoining No.
10, each 20 feet, making 6»feet front on Tenth-street,
aad 140 feet deep to the said intended alley.
No.ll. Alot north of and adjoining No. 10, having 20
Ffeet front on Tenth-street, and 140 feet depth to the
said intended illey.
No. t». A lot north of and Adjoining No. 11, and of the
feme dimensions.
Edward Fox, Audt'r.
Aug. 9. '
' Cargo of the ftiip Union Fraterna,
'from Leghorn.
ON Friday nest, at. 10 o'clock in the morning, 011
Messrs. Rofs & SimfonS whatf, will be fold by auc
tion, (and continued from day to day, till the whole is
fold) the cargo of the Venetian Ihlp UniomFratera, from -|
Leghorn, confiftijig of the following articles. J
Florence OjJ in cases of 12 bottles, and flafks of 50 a
Caflile Soap iri cases-• a
Tallow Candles , c
Anchovies . I
■ ■ Caiero • ■ \
Olives ( '
I _ Juniper Berries id bale* 1
Mama, Flakey
Ditto,, in forts '
Almoijds
Perme'an Cheese •
Frenth in calks
' Ditto, in bottles i
r Twine - ' ■
Hair-Powder
Pomatum.
The conditions of sale will bt—all sums under 50CI.
to be paid in calh : frotiVsoo to in approved
notes at 60 diys: from 1000 dollars upwards, in ap?
proved endorsed notes at 90 and 120 days.
Edward Fox, Au&ioneer.
**' X
Aisguft 9 • • ' y
A Great variety of elegant Globe and Vase
LAMPS.
TpOR halls and entries, of the best London glass, with
J- pullies, balance weights, and every neceiTary appen
dage, of fizcrfuualjU'ft accommodate buildings w all
• C dimensions.
Also, an aflortmentof Lamps, adspted for the use
. -at pirlours, thambers, counting-houfee, with patent
burners, wick, glasses, &c.
Jufl Imparted, and Far Sale by
W. P O Y N T E L L,
' 'Jfo. 7®, Chefnut, between Second and Third Street 3.
T Also, a handsome alfortment of mahogany knife ca
ses for fide hpards.
♦ August 4- fmw3t.
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
Souchong -v
Hyson Skin /
Young Ilyibn S* FRESH TEAS
Hyson and N % , *
Imperial
Yellow Nankeens
China Ware, assorted in Boxes and Chefls
Quicksilver
Bandaimo Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
chefls '
■Lo.don Market } MADEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, hoglheads, &
New-York Market J ' quarter efflts
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogfteads ,
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in (heets
3 Casks of Cutlery assorted
m A few chests of Manchester Goods, assorted thick
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
S Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Natls allbrted in calks
July 18
Lottery and Broker's Office,
64 South Second street,
TICKETS ;n the Canal Lottery No. 11, are now rea
dy for sale, a Check Book kept for the examination
of Tickets, and Prizes paid, without dedudtion.
The Subscriber solicits the application of the Public or
any ot his friends who Nvifli to purch/fe or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange, or Notes, Houses, Lands,
Lott» or Merchandize of any'kind, er to obtain Money
ondepofitof property.
WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
Late jf?efl for the Canal Lottery .Company.
Shares an Tickets in the late Newport Lfcng
Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery examined ; a
' complete lift of'all the prizes having-been received at
■» jTjnC 6. ,
On Monday next, asthlnft. (July,)
Will be landed ai South (Irfct Wha. f, t)»e cargoes of Superb,
Vv, i> In ian a*d Habilla, from Jamaica anil Havanna, coo
fifting of . -
4 Mobfles in Hogflitads,
% .GdiPte in togiheads, barrels. & bags,
' . .1 * r?R SALE BY
.* \ • PETER BLIGHT,
, 1 Whtf has also foriale, «
id i'A quantity of Jamaica GINGER,
« ' "7 In '. B
Cocoa, ) •
.' And 1 ,0 boitrjHarnbro' WINDOW GLASS, 7 by 9, will
' * ' be foid chcap.
liily.«o ■« dlot & la'h & 1 jot
«
si' AN AX?SST, ,
i.- Refiner.', at Mr. Oiltcfs r s Hold,
JVC I N I A T U R F, LIKENESSES
\ RE taken f.ld executed in that eleEant and dehcat,
l\. stile, which is so ncceffary to render a Miniature Pic
ture an interesting jewel. rd'em- 1
He will warrant a strong and mdifputable reje
blance; and he takes the liberty to lay before the
OS this place his moil earnest intention to defcrvc their p - i
tronage by his best endeavors to please. c
N. B. Specimens are to be seen. f
May 12. " 1
George Dobson, |
BEGS leave to inform the Store. Keepers in Town and 1
Countrv, that he has removed from Marlv-Slrcit to
N°- 25, south Third-street,
where be is opening a Large and Elegant Aiforiment <)f the
undermentioned articles.—viz.
Superfine LondonClotbsand Kerfeymcret,' ■ ' !
Yorkthire second Do. Do. |
Elastic do. do.
Mix'd and Blue Coatipgs ' (
Flannelis, Ac.
Manchester Printed Callicoes, 1
London Chintz ditto, i
Blueand ditto Furnitufes, ,
India ditto.
Long Cloths, ColTaes, Baftas, Battillas& Conjevremi,
4-4 9-8 5-4 & 6.-4 Superfine India Book Muslins,
4-4 and 9-8 India Book Handkerchiefs,
4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 &6-4 plain do. Muslins,
4-4 & 6-4 Britilh Jaconets,
6-4 Britilh Checks and Stripes, 1
4-4 India'do. do. do.
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs. &c.
A large assortment of figur'd and plain Mullinets,
Quiltings. Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
Fancy Waiftcoatirlgs,
Ginghams of the firft Quality, (übjeCt to Drawback,
India Nankeens,
Men's White and coloured Silkjlockiags.
May 9
Twenty Dollars Reward. *
RAN away this morning from the Subscriber, living
in the county of Monmouth, New-Jersey, remark
ably black Negro Man; named BEN—about 4® years of
age, 5 feet 9 or 10 inclits high, stout niade, bald on the
crown of his head; had on and took with hipragtey
ho'mefpun coating coat and jacket, a brown clcth coat,
with a black collar, homespun tow lhirts and irowfers,
with other fhirU and small cloaths wbich cannot be enu
meraf ed. He is a complaisant, artful and deceitfal fellow.
Whoever will take up and secure the said Runaway, so
that his owner m.iy him again, ftiall have the above re
ward, and rcafonable # charges paid if brought home.
Elijha Laiurance.
July 18—Aug. 1 §2w
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FIN-I3HED
Three-story Briek House,
(The late residence of General Walttr Stewart)
' .XTTITH a'LO I' of GRQDND thereuntobelof ing,
<1\ the weft fide as Thirfl-ftreet, near Uhion-flrect
containing in front 31 feet, and in depth »oo feet, to an
alley leading into Unjpn-ftrcet. The houfs is 32 feetfront
and 50 feet deeps; the several rooms contained in it are
' large, commodious, andcompletfly finifhed; thetwofirft
stories are each 13 feet high; there are 10 mahogany
doors in the house ; a geometrical staircase, with mahoga
-1 ny rails and a geod Iky-light. The kitchen is in the cell
- ar, which is spacious andconvenicnt, and finifhed with'aH 1
I oven, stew-holes and pantries, hall and large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in frent of which is an
; area in which there is a punm The yard is vuil"*l»-
t Commtinicattng whtr the f»id tuiliflng is a neat ttirel-ilory
brick house, on the north fide of Union-street, contain
ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; the lower part of which
is at present occupied as a compting-houfe, and the upper
part divided into wall-finilhed large chambers. This house
• may at a small expense be tonverted into a convenient
- dwelling: The street door is very handsome, and
and back have Venetian window-shutters. Adjoining the
last house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are ere&ed
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good coach
honfe and flables.finifhed equal (or nearly so) with " any in
the city, on alot containing on Union street 30 ftet, and
in depth 011 the weft, fide of said alley 52 feet. There are
good cellars unde, the whole of the buildings, and a wine
room over part of thejlable, with a hay-loft ov>r the re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD BONS.'iLL & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Pear
eo .streets.
6ih month 24th,' 1796.
n For Sale,
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
IN New Jersey, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbour.
The Grift Millis.fiity by fort) feet, two water wheels,
and calculated for four ruYi of Stones, with screen, fans
and boulting-cloths, &c. TheSaw'Millhastwofaws,and
capable ofcuttingfiveto 6 100 thousand feet of Boards per
year. A valuable piece ef Cedar Swamp, witjiin a rnilel
and a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
of a Landing The Lumber, &c. ma»be taken by water
. from the mill tail. v
ALSO TOR SALE™
Several Valuable Tra£ts of Land,
In Pennsylvania, for all of which pigment will be receiv
ed in tlie notes of MelTrs Morris and Nicholfon, or in
Cash.
For further information apply to thfe Printer.
May 17. law
- JOHN. PAUL JONES.
n TNFORMATION is hereby given, that the late John
1 Paul Jones was a proprietor of fWe lhares (amount
r ing to about 5867 icres) in a trail of land purchased by
the Ohio Coirlpany, in the territory ef the Uilited States
s ' of America, north-weft of J;he river Ohio ; and that his
heirs, or legal reprefent;ative, on application to the direc
tors of said company,3t Marietta in the territory afore
faid, will receive a deed ef the laid five-fhares, or riehts'
of land..
The application maybe made personally or agent,
" but proper documents must be produced, to prove tlie'
• claimant or claimants the legal hei»6 ov "of
tb{ said Jonei"
■"n.b. As it is n«t known in what country the £erfon
or perfonsinterefted refidg, it will be an ail of benevolence
• in every Printer in America and Europe, who
- -
(i " 'In behalf thediredo*of theObio Company,'
)- ' " ItIJFUS PUTNAM.'-
Marietta, May 20,1796- Quae .J < 3awgw
To be difpiofed of, ~ .
THE time of a healthy WOMAN, who
has between four and five Jear« to ferv» : She
be recommended for her sobriety and honelly. 'For
enqtiire at No. 132,-Chefnul-ftrtet.
Am. mi ll ). , «. • tf.
OniviSrluy of Fenafylvania, '
July 16, J7q6
•yHE Summer Vacation will take place on Monday ~c xt
t!rc-ißth,iidl. and continue for Four weeks.—-Thediffer-
II ent Schools withth: several Tutors will accordingly re!
alfemblc on Monday, the 15th day of Aauitt b
• By ihc fruity, Wat, E.o<. llttj S«c'y,
'• •
»
v ■ %1C";•
Foreign Jnicliigi-ii^'
LONDON, May 21. -
Wcbear, that it is at length finally concluded
that tlx; Princess Royal is to give her hsnd to the
Prince of Wirtemberg. Count Z ppcli it is said
has been the fuectfsful suitor for his prince on the
occasion. _
The Autfrian general Argenteau, second ill com
mand, has been arretted ona charge of mifcondutt
during the late campaign in Itidy, mio is to be
brought to a court martial. He is a priiofier ai
Mautua.
The report of peace is again very prevalent in
London, and the return of Mr. Netmai/ from Pa
ri* is anxiously expected. This gentleman has been
associated with M, Charretier, as agent for French
prifonens in this country, and approved of as filch
by our Ministry. He was formerly under M. Bar
thelami," in the service of .the French Ambaflador
in London ; and was sent off on Monday fe'night
express to Paris, supposed to be charged with a
mission of importance. An express was sent off to
Dover 12 hows before Mr, Nctman left London,
with a letter from the,. Duke of Portland to the
Mayor, to let this gentleman meet with no delay,
and that a packet mighf be in readiness to receive
him. He failed from Dover to Calais under a flag
oftrueeand was only two hours and a haif on his
paflage. Mr. Charretier accompanied him to Do
ver, but not to France.
Scarce any thing of the events which have occur
red in the progress of the French revolution arc more
extraordinary than those of the present day. Al
most in the fame fitting of their k«giflative bodies,
theyconfult on the firft movements towards peace,
made by Mr. Wiekham to Mr. Barthelemi, they
receive news of victories decisive of the fate of Italy
and the submissive proposals for peace from Sardi
nia and Naples, aod in the fame breath they an
nounce to the. people that a conspiracy has been just
discovered in the perpetration, headed by men of
the firft abilities, ibme of them of the legislative bo
dy, threatening the mafiacrc of all the conftitutcd
authorities, and the re-establishment of the bloody
fyttem of 1793.
The conspirators accuse the present powers of
intending to restore the monarchy they retort the
charge on the conspirators and urge the nation to
oppose the reftoratiori of the conltituticro of 1793
to the utmost, as the o<ily means of ettablifhing the
Republic and the liberty of France.
L 0 N D O N, May 30.
A letter from the Hague, of the 18th inft fays,
that the Committee of Union having communica
ted to the National Assembly the contents of a note
from Gen. Btouinonville, in which he infills, that a
commander in chief of the army of the State (hall
be appointed without delay, the Affcmbly nomina
ted Gen. Bournonville to that office, and invested
him with full power.
The Louis d'Or fold at Paris, on the 18th infti
for the>enovmouß price of 8,400 livres in Affig
nats 1 ; and Rescripts or Promises of Mandates,
r *ben bore a discount of 88 per cent.
At the close of the. Poll for Weftmiofter, on
1 Friday, Mr. Fox and Home Tooke addrefled the
" mob, in pretty long speeches :—that of the former
; Gentleman was the molt inflamatory we aver heard.
t He said (among other strong thinga)- he re
: mcmbered but two Wars in which this country lias
1 been engaged—the one directed against the Liber.
ty of America, the other against the Liberty of
j France—both caused by the despotic principles of
. the existing the present War
a was nothing more nor less than a combination of
- despots to overturn the liberties of Europe. That
a constitution was good, exadUy in proportion to
r the (hare that the people" had in tjie government of
the country—that the sovereignty was in th»peo-
P le - . ,
He cautioned the people against entertaining the
fantaiiic notion—that ail exiftingconftitution might
not be destroyed.
He spoke of Mr. H. Tooke as a gentleman
>. whom he refpeded, and whom he «onfidered as the
I injured and perfected man alive ; this speech
r might be called a canvass for Mr. Tooke.
s. Mr. H. 1 ooke said, I uat he would o6t conti
c nu,e a candidate, if heconceived, that by so doing,
r he would endanger Mr. Fox's eleaion. He agreed
in every finglc fenliment that Mr. Fox had ut
tered.
Is there not then a coalition in principles atvow
i ed between Mr, Fox a«d the Chief of the Cor
responding Society.
Extract of a letter from Cadiz, April 29, 1796.'
1 give you «n abftiaft of a letter, dated Alii
cant, April 10.
„ "On the 10th inft. an American brig came in
- three days from Algiers to this place ; reports, that
T the Moors had just carried 9 Danish veffcls into that
» port they were all loaded, one had Sicilly a(h for
London, some others wine and brandy. The
S rol,ud ° f ,his unexpeaed hostility seems to be
, this :_Some time ago, a Dane, bringing , 00
Moors from Conftam.nople going to Algiers, l as
. (topped by a Tuscan man-os war, and carried into
f i.iples, where the Moors are detained. The Dev
ot Algiers makes Denmark answerable for them •
„ and, we understand, that he. ha, intimated ,0 the.
i, . ( r on{ ° l t * lat ! he y mull be returned within a
inuudtime j tWat if they wrre, he would conti-'
nye a friendl to Denmark, -and release the vcffels
d?iained, and if they were not, they would be fold
a j Screws made slave, ; the Danini flag- decla
. red enemy, anfcthe Co ß ful turned out of Algiers
, •"Asit is so.Be timelinre the Consul ha/been
e writing for cornp.omifing the master at Naples, it
r may oe hoped he w,« be able to pacify the Dey. in
which, cafe the Prizes would be restored
_ " This intelligence "may be depended upon, btH
however it is not improbable that you may, ere
th.s leaches, be .informed of this circumstance."
rl rj he - Treaty with the Airlines, it
_ seems „ „ great forwardnefs, and .he ex
pcaed to depart da,ly f rom Algiers. Mr. Donnald
fon, it was likely, would be *bk tQ a;ceffinod^t
matters on a permanent footing tei'tlt the Rcjeney
of Tunis and Trpoli—and when . this tak<« [lace,
the Americans will have nothing more to appre.
hend'from the Barbary jjfii wrei s.
From the (Bklfafi) Northern Star,
COUNCIL OF I JVE HUNDRED. %
PARIS, MAY 19.
The Council of five hundred.had conn
tp no rcfjlution relative to the treaty.ctecludcd-be* la
twcen the French republic and the King of Sard!-'
ilia. A 'coniTiffion was appointed to ex-arriine it,. ?
and to deliver in their report this day. ■ The com.
miflioners are Boiflfy d'Anglas, Leftierer, Syeyes, J
Jean Debri, and EfchniTeiieaux.—The Council
again to day will fotm itfeif into a secret «aimmit- «
tee to receive the 1 report
May 20. ,
Dumas is the member who presented to the 1
Council «f. Elders, the report in the name of ihe
qonamiffion appointed to examine the treaty of
with Sardinia. His speech, tho'
studied in a'few hours, was-a work of a coniidera
fele extent, and a well drawn picture of the prefcnt
situ at ion of Europe, and of the new relations of
the republic with refpefl to the other powers.
Of the war, Dumas fpeke with profefiional know
ledge. The plans of the campaign he praised in
the highest terms, and was liberal in his
praifeof -those who concerted them, and of those
also who put them in execution. He appreciated
the merit due to the political dexterity of thnfe who
condu&ed our negociatiqns ; and paid a tribute of
applause to our generals, to the 'heroes of the
North and of Italy ; to Buonaparte, to Berthier,
and those who emulate their glory. He exprefied
his wilhes and his hopes for a speedy, wife, and ho
norable peace ; a peace such as it becoMn France to '
grant to Europe, that now loudly calls for a return
of its blefiings. >
Buonaparte Commander in chiif of the arm*
of Italy. 4
.„TO'HIS BRETHREN IN ARMS.
HiuH'Quarters, Cherafco, April 26.
" Soldiers,
" You have iu a forfnight gained Six victories,
taken 21 stand of colours, 71 pieees of cannon, se
veral tlrong phces, conquered the richest part of
Piedmont ; you have made' 15000 prisoners, and
killed or jvounded more than 10,000 men.
" You had hitherto fought only for fterite
Vocks, rendeied illustrious by your courage, buc
useless to the country j you have equalled by your
services the victorious army of Holland and the
Rhine. Deprived of dvery thing, you, have suppli
ed everything, you have won battles without can
non, made forced marches without shoes, watched
without brandy, and often without bread The Re
publican phalanxes, the foldieis of Liberty were
alone capable of fuffering what.you haye fuffered.
" Thanks be to you, Soldiers;the grateful coun
try will, in part be indebted to you-for her pwpfpe
rity ; and if when viCtors at Toulon, you predicted
the immortal campaign of 1794, your nrefetit vie
tories will be the presages of more brilliant victo
ries, The two armies which attacked you wi h
audacity fly difhrartened before you. Men wLo
' failed at your roifsry and rejoicoLlii thought at tie
idea oFthe triumphs of your enemies, are con
founded and appalled—But it mufl nqt, Soldiers,
be concealed from you, that you have nothing,
since fometliing remains yet to be awe. Neither
Turin nor Milan are in your power. The athesof
the conquerors of the Tarquins are dill disgraced,
by the«fiafliiv» of. Bafleville. At the commence
ment of the campaign you werf dellitute of everyt
thing, now you are amply provided ; the magazines
taken from your enemies are numerous, the artille-
ry for the field and for besieging is arrived.
" 'Soldiers, the country has a right to expedl
great things from' you { juftify her expeflajions.
The greatest obstacles are undoubtedly overcome, .
but yon have still battles to fight, cities to take,
jivers to pafs.—ls there one among you whose
courage it dimiuifhed i Is there one who would
prefer returning to the summits of the Alps ajid
the Apennines ? No, there is not one amongst the
conquerors of Montenotte, Millelimo, Dego, Mon
davi. All burn with the desire ef extending the
glory of the French. All wish to humble tile
proud kings who dare to meditate putting us again
in chains j all wish to dictate a peace that shall be
and that shall indemnify the country for
the imtnenfe facrifices which she has made ; all of
you burn with a desire to fay on your return to
your home, 1 belonged to the victorious army of
Italy,
" Friends, I promise this eonqueft (o you, but
there is one condition which' you must swear to
fulfil, it is to respeCt the people whom you deliver,
to repress the horrid pillage, which some wretches
mitigated by our enemies, praetifed ; tinlefS yoti
do this you will be no longer the friends bat the
scourges of the human race ; you will no longer
form the honor of the French people, they will
disavow you ; your vi<3ories, your fileceiles, .the
bl6od of brethren who died in battle, all, even ho
nor and glory will'be loflf. With frefpeCt to myfelf,
to the Generals who poflefs your confidence, we
(hall blush to command an army without discipline,
and who admi,t no other law than that of force.
" People of Italy, the French army comes to
break your chains. The French people are the
friends of all people, come \pith confidence to
them, your property, religion, and culloms shall be
■ refpedted.
'* We make war as gcnerMis enemies ; W»m'
only to make war against the Tyrants who oppref3
you."
(Signed) ' Buonaparte.
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the NgrthkrM Libirties and diltriiSt of
SOVTHWARK i
Published, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High ftrett, » ,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 16 inrhe square, and has been en
graved by one of the firft artille In the city, from a lat«
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a "
phlm with cacji pian, giving " some account of the
city, its popufatiau, trade j c';v;ra«aeiK, fee-
July iy :« & f rf• jfatfa— m»« U'« !»■■■■ urn «sa
) ' » 1 y b'iL'del'ybta,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, Adoust jo.
SfrrTlSt; it Perth Vmb'.y, hy the Rer. Mr.
ifeofej M . 1~1 em r y Bemb idse, to Miss Sarah
Truxtun, daughter as fftimas Truxiun, Esq. 3$
of this city. . • fill
y —• « ' adj
— O.n evening, at New-York, by the not
Rev. Dr. M«>ore; C- B. Penrose, Esq. ®f Phila- wit
delphia, to Miss A. H.Bingham, of that city. Str
Exlrr.cl rif a letter from Londonderry, dated ijl of u/
May ore
I '**1 never knew people going to America an
than firm- a> e this year. We have had very trou. i^rfl
times with Defenders fnc} Perp o'Day -M
■ boft'l but during the circuit many have been hung, va "
and the country is at present quiet. About Ar- &c
magh people dare not ttir out after dark, and pa-
are kept about their houfesand bleach-greens. 5°
Roman Catholic can now keep a gun except<ke fqu
have a freehold of ten pounds per annum, or 3001. Go
-eafli, which has i.n 3 manner totally deprived ral,
them of this privilege.—Every man must re.gifter the
his arms at the quarter feffiona, and if any magi- the
ftrate chooses after this day to search the house of . f 'rc
any man, he may do it, and fine'every man ten fail
pounds with whom a gun is found.—This is a hard
Uaw." »
\ En
S TO C K S. in
— tur
Six per Cent. - - - 1-7/7 th:
Three per Cent. - 10/7
per Cent. - - none for sal:. - - 14/"
51 pet Cent. - -- -- - - - jt,6
Deferred Six per Cert. - j. - . \sfb to 7 res
JJANK United States, - - - - 24 pr. cent.
■ Psnnfylvania, 30
—— — North America, ... .46
Insurance Comp. North-America, 40per cent. adT.' .
■ Pennsylvania, 5 percent. " 1!!
Exchange, at 60 days, - - - 165 te 166 2-3
. ' ,
ARRIVED AT THIS PORT. to
Ship Jofephus, Haile, Teneriffe 35
Brig Morning Star, Steele, Londonderry 56 bo
Schooner Two Cousins, Duval, Havannah 17
Friends,' Hughs, Windsor (N. S.) 19 ph
Betfcy, Afhby, North Carolina 9
Peggy, Atkins, Penoblcot 14
Sloop Rover, Malonc, Jeremie 17 59
Millriver, May, Richmond 9 an
Nancy, Levinus, N'W-York 6 wi
CLEARED.
Schooner Jupiter, Burbank, New York frc
Philadelphia, Harman, Hifpaifiola gil
Little Jenny, Cox, New Orleans
Eliza, BefTom, Norfolk frc
Winfield Packet, M'Neron, Dn. vie
Sloop Hero. Brewfler, Hifpaniola
William, Whittlefea,' * to
Fair American, Decker, Suffolk so
Ship Eliza, Little, Norfolk
The Jofephus failed from Teneriffe, July 6, fu A
company withthe Ship Adlive, Blair for Philadel
, phia. Left at Teneriffe the sloop James,'Durcan, H
Philadtlphia. Snow fair American, Vannefs, New pc
York. On the 24th July, -Iff. '*7» 34» ' on g> , in
spoke the brig Georgia Packet, M'kt.cver, ont 5
days all well. August 2, fat. 37, 26 v loug. 73, m
30, spoke a schooner frwi Philadelphia for Cape- C
Nichola-Mole —name unknown. at
- — i
Arrivals at New-York. V th
Ship Matilda, Afopugh, Montego-Bay. dt
Belvidere, Ingraham, Havre-de Grace
Penelope, Bunker, Dtiblis hi
' Brig Mary Ann, Glenny, Washington, N- C.
Columbia, Claik, Kennebeck. B
Arrivals at Boflon, Augujt 2. fe
Brig Sally Linzee, Oporto, 49 days. Left there tl
eapt, Stoddard of Boflon, for St. Übes. June 23, fc
lat. ij.o, 41, long. 30, 39, fpokfe brig Olive, Pal
mer, of Portfftiouth, from Cadiz. July 4, lat. 43, ft
long. 45, spoke schooner John 4 Fry, ftom St.Ubes
for Marblehead. July 12, lat. 44. 34, long. 61,
38, spoke {hip Juno, Harvey, of Boston, from
Havre de-Grace, for New-York. July 3, lat. 43,
long. 45, spoke schooner Orion, from Bolton, for
Cadiz, 10 On the ill inft. about two
Irag ies from the Boston light, was boarded by La
Raifon, detained 5 hours, and had two English- \
men imprefled, viz. Fftcr Grimes and George Peal, r
Aug. 3. Schooner John, Tr.efry, St. UVs, 30 J
days. Left there, Pomona, Men ill, of Ports
mouth, to fail ir, 5 days ; Lenard, Hacket, of t
' Newbury-port, 15 days ; Fortitude, Cllft, of Bos- j g
ton, ij days ; Voax, of do. lis days; id
Mary, ■——, Portland, 15 days ; Minerra, Eld- J
of New-Bedford, 10 days; Active, B4air, t<
of Philadelphia, for Teneriffe, £jj«Jays ; , 1
Rhodes, New-York y A&ive, Robertfotv, of Phi 1 t
ladelphia, ij days ; Neu<ra!ity, Jenkins; for Bos- a
ton, *5 days. Nothing r.ew.
Schooner Harcum, Utley, Halifax, 10 days, i
Saw; La Raifon lying too, off Cape Cod. 1
Aug. 3. Schooner Fair L ai ly> Bruce, Ham- i
burgh, So days. Left there, brig' PoSy, Camp- e
bell of New York; (hip Harmony, Moote, Phils- t
delphia; (hip Cleopatra,. Martin, Baltimote ; Hup T
George, Ranj/dell. New-Yotk ; ship Antonia, a
Lombard, do. fhipCygnet, Johrion, ditto ; {hip r
Eli>a, Swain, Rollon ; brig Mary,.Moiilton, New- <
bury-port ship Warren, Stanton, New-Yoik ; ]
brig Almira, Wait, Portland ; (hip Adventure, i
Lombard, Boiion ; brig , Delano ; (hip t
, Robbins, ; ship Randolph, Green- 1
,ough, Portsmouth, N. H. Ship Statira, Edwards, f
ditto ; {lrp Three Friends, Bradford, Jiofton;
schooner Polly, Irvine, Baltimore ; ship Voltaire,' e
Bowen, Philadelphia ; brig Neptune, Barr, Sat
lem 5 {hip Lucia, Wilder, • TJofton ; snow Two ft
Friends, Bartoll, ditto. Spoke, July 21, lat. 4.3, t
just W. of the Banks, ship Lydia, of Newbury- 1
port, 10 days friitr. Virginia, for Lisbon. July 27, i
lat, 42, 56, spoke fllip Polly, Adams, 4 days from t
.\Vifcaffirt, tor Litferpool. Same day, (poke fchri 1
Pilg-iitu, 33 days from Liverpool t
. The Mercury, Brooks, of Bofiqn, 5 days from c
Virginia, for Cadiz, was spoke, July 12, lat. 39, ]
!r,ng. 65. 1
I ■; »
BJ THIS DAY'S MAILS. P*
PORTSMOUTH, Aupuft 4.
Arriv*d"here the fltip Pomona, Capt. Merril, in ex
38 days from St. Übes, who informs that our Con
sul told him our affairs with tire Algerines were so
adjusted, that the commerce of these Statrs was g.
not in the lead hazardous, and our l veflels might,
with the greatest fafety, go to any port of the
Streights without meeting any obftru&ioh.
Merril, the day previous to his lfuvi "R St>
' Uses, Tead London papers to the gth of June, in at
one of which he' perfectly recoiled!s to have read te|
an account of a battle o"n the Rhine, in which the
French, as usual, were vidlorious, having taken r OI
' | pnfoncrs, killed many thoiifands, taken
vad quantities of ammunition, baggage, waggons,
&c. &C. , g.
Arrived here the brig Olive, Capt. Palmer, in
50 days frort Cadiz, who informs that Richefy's
fquaSion was flill at Cadiz the 18th June. The *
Governor of Cadiz sent off to the English adroi-
ral, to know if his was in a state of blockade,
the answer was not knowti when Capt. Paimer left w<
there ; the admiral hai, however, ordered the fqua
..flron immediately off the coafl, and it had actually w ]
failed two days before Capt. Palmer left there.
NEW YORK, Au£u., £ th
It was'currently reported this moroiiig, that the la'
English frigates Prevoyante and Thetis had fallen th
in with the French frigate Concorde, and had cap- th
tured and.sent her into Halifax. Capt. Cochran, of ab
th: Thett9, was said to have arrived at Sandy-hook of
and to have received a wound in the fids during fe
the engagement. We have endeavored to trace the pi
report to its origin but Without effect. hi
L?ft evening arrived bere, the ship Belvidere, tu
Capt. Ingraham, in 63 days from Havre. lii
Captain Ingraham spoke the following vessels on so
hir, passage —
June 12, brig Eliza, Capt. Wilfun, from Guern- in
fey, bound to London, 35 days* from Gharlefton fe
to Guernsey. n<
Ship New-Jerfer, Capt, Hefs, from Havre, la
bound'to Liverpool, tl
Ship Concord, Capt. Johnfton, from Philadel- V
, phia, bound to Amsterdam. oi
July 13, br<£ Eagle, Capt. lfrael, of New- pi
York, bound to Madeira, out 15 days, in long, ci
59, w<ft. The Belvidere being in want of water w
1 and provisions, CaJjt. lfraelfurnifhed her with some tl
i water, flour, bread, &c. b
July 23, spoke a (hip-belonging to New-York, ti
from Virginia, bound to France, out 6 days, lon- d
1 gitude 58. b
i July 25, spoke the ship Alliance, Capt. Wood, ft
from New-York, who very kindly supplied th« Btl- e
- videre with some neceffaiies.
1 August 4, spoke the American Eagle, of Bos a
1 ton, bound to Virginia, out 3 days, and received t
: some neceflaries from her. n
: Capt. Ingraham left at Havre about 30 fail of n
1 American vessels. .* "o
Two French frigates and three corvettes, left. ;
, Havre tlic day before Capt. Injrraham failed, fup
t posed with an iutention of joining the Dutch fleet v
, inthcTexel. v . • r
; By the arrival fef- Capt. Afcougli, from Jamai- J
, learn, that th&floop Lady Washington, .
- Capt. .Barnatd, was 101 lon the north fide of Cuba, <
about five Weeks ago ; part of the cargo saved, *iz. t
25 puncheorts rqm, carried into the Havanna, and 1
there obliged to be fold, for the benefit of the un
y, derwriters. <
e About i fortoight ago, Capt. Afcongh was' f
s boarded by a French privateer, and treated politely. (
Capt„"A. spoke the ship American Eagle, from 1
;. Boflon, bound to Virginia, all well.
The brig Nancy, Capt. Seton, of this port, was
seized in Monteg® Bay while Capt. lay"
■e there, on account of a few rolls of tobacco being
;, found on board, but has lince been liberated.
I- The following gentlemen came paflengers in the
;, (hip Matilda, from Jamaica —
:s Mr. James Vanzandt.
1, Mr. George Tighe, of 83d regiment.
rr. Mr. Grn. Temple, »f do.
?. ———
3r KINGSTON, July t.
r o Arrivals at Port-Royai since our lafl.
jZ The Neptune, Blanchard, Portland; Eliza,
li- Williams, Norfolk; Mary, Boye, Africa ; Cla
il. rifTa, Congdon, New-York; Lirc'inda, Barnett,
O North-Carolina.
f- We are happy to have it in our power to con
sf tradifl, upon goad authority, the account with je
>f- | gard to BpciMrde, inserted in this paper «n Sptur
s; I day unde-the Falmou h head, and copied from
d- Jamaica Merctny. The following extract »f a let
ir, t«r from'a gentleman at Cape Nichala Mole, dated
-, 13th inft. to his correlpondent in this town, con
li tair.s a corredl flatemeat of the particulars of the
>f- affair.
•' I rifle this letter by an American schooner that
'6. is to fail this day, to acquaint you of the taking of
Bombard'e. On the nth it fuirendered, not be
n- ing able to.hold ottt longer : the forccs in it obtain
p- ed very advantageous terms ; although the only al
ia- teroative left them was, bptig carried by afTauh, or
ip Turrendering at difcretian ; the commander in chief
ia, alone signed the terms, the other general officers
ip refuting to do it, as humiliating to our'army : in a
iv- word, not only the troops belonging to Port-de
; ; Paix, arid the inhabitants of that place, who were
e, in the fort, were allowed to go to Jean Rabieli con
lip dudted by an Eflglifh,guard; to a certain distance ;
n- but even defetters from the Mitrechaufee de Con
3s, fade, arid from the HufTars, reccivsd the,fame fa- ;
r; vor: loldiers who quitted their colours to join the/
re," enemy, and whoi by every rul/of war, defeiVji'
la- to be hanged, have been treated as fimplc retyQni
f/o General Whytc arrived here some
.3, with a convoy of transports, having on. bo an, some
ry- fay 1800 merij others a great deal less ; h/ppilj( he
7, remains to command heie, as General Forbes goes.
>m to Pprt-au-Prince. Jean Rabel will, I think, not
in be long in poffeflion of the Republicans: its cap
tu'e is ncceflary to frcure the Mole ; for it is very
>m certain that Mr. Vincent, chief engineer of the re
9, publicans at Cape-Francois, rr*ditnted strongly to
dired all kis forces agaiufl the Mole; convinced
»
tTvat, kelrtgonr# mftirs of the Re- With
publicans wt>uld soon be in pots'™ of all the E "' P r °cu
glifh territoiy i-i St. D.>miogo w,l!cll ' n f »& cou,d
fcarccly be tenable. But we ITe Bot that to At
—our fecuny will be augmefd by the force we
exped ; Admiral Chriiiian, :h 4=o° ™t n > being Hi
hourly look id for." cludii
During tie time the Ma Cuineamtm was at Creel
Barbadoes, a veflel ariived" 6re rom Grenada, cellcn
with 40 invjids from woundcd the dif- infon
ft.rent a&ioij on that idand | bey
A mallei of a veffrl re' r,J t thi"middle of last us, ti
mopih,'tlrat(ll kin3t of pr^P" B were scarce both into t
at Port-de-liix and Cape-?ancois ; that at the lit* fourc
ter platfe, tlry had not >4 tban half allow- rahee
ance of brea and fah prof' oll ' f° r their troops for as th<
fdme ti«*e;Uhat ph'var rs were dispatched to | The
bang in *11 American vefi a l®aded wi(h provisions. the p
_ Indi?
Ext rail of a letter fronfbf Supercargo of an A- the <
merican ve<pl, in the fench port of St. Dotnin- tion,
go. prise.
" Hearingiof an in re reform of the French tend<
Adminiftratiol in the it* of Leogane, in confe- with
quence of a niona! dcee in favour of Americans, thou
weleft Jacqueqtl for fariguane, but by fatal ex- prop
perience find fc law Inds a set of rascals, whose deter
whole study isp cheatheir country, and fob the nion,
Americans un<jr the pecious name of friendfhlp ; not:
this they ireft opposition to their own the <
laws j and whcfcold fit are not afha.-r.ed toconfcfs Fi
the fa£), pleadfg nfeflity ha 9 110 laws : and al- tions
though this is Jtrir ecufe, adminilhation are fully ble t
able to pay evfy Afenc-an his due, piovided the we (
officers were hoed ; jut they take fpeaial care to is, t
feaihertheirowbeftswhi'ie in their power to accom- ble c
pli(h it, whichiieylo by placing into each other's aco
•hands, and lea{£ t(gether to prey upon us unfoi> gove
tunate America. The coffee that fliould be de- tent;
livered to us foriurcargoes by them, is fold and
for cash and p r et:d by the officers. °P lll
" The Anieriiniplaccd.far toomuch ccafidence by f
io the honour 't Ftenelimen, they forget the dif- V
ference bet weeithe iesl patriots of France and the flats
noisy denaorratfor liberty. The ignorance of the
latter* is.hardlyioncei'eable, it is common to find
their principal firers unable to figw their names. I
When we Hfirftlrrivei here ar:* found the fituati- I
on of things, Ilemaided a permit to depart the I
port ; their a.ifer va3, we intend to .hire your I
. cargo before ya g>. Immediately 15 soldiers I His
were placed orboarf ; I demanded to know if I (
: they would tab it by force ? They replied no ; j
but wvuld kecjis, and not allow us to fell an ar- I
, tide, id to government. We waited 14 I w ; c
■ days, and founj&thtrs had lain 60 days, and then I w j,
been Qcmpeited | give up, we concluded it va:n to I
, Handout, and Htveii only knows what will be the I Q a .
- event." j t
Between twve and one o'clock on Monday I ,
aftemoon, the [hooner Induflry, on her way to | |
1 the Turtling Krs was flruck by a very heavy sea, j
nearly oppoiitetc pallifadoes,and went down int- jyj
f mediately. Ha crew confjfts of four hands, two j CJ f )
which werejrowned. The other two gained Ihe
«. jne fhure, by teafliftar.ee of a piece of timber. j
In confequeß of some -mifunderllanding a duel I cel
t was fpu-ht orNonday evening, between two *Rj
at Pjtic's Mount, in which o/ie of them, j at
Ms V. La Vy\ fcit hislife. An inquest wai held Iwa
, «n tin; body n Tuesday morning, when -the ver- Ig,
1, diet retnrucctiis, tfiat til'died by a ball fired from 1
:. a pillol by atrfon unknown, which entered his jao
d right ficK', Scco as to ocofion his death., 1 f e ]
1 A mal's cfjietjl, much incumbered, with (tones Iw,
and sand, walicked yp on the Lolfg mountain a| c 0
is fewdaysago.lt appeared to have been in that j y
f. situation a ccideiable number of years, and when j
ti refir.ed yieldel 7 ounces of gtild.
is emmunicalcd jur the Diary.
y — . . . le<
g ExtraSfd frfl the Registry of his J
Curt of Appeals for Prizes.
16 Saturday thiwenty third day of April, in the year I
ofuur Lo one thousand feren hundred and nine- I ,
ty fix, atie Council Chamber, Whitehall ; - I
.PRESENT,
EailManield, Lord President of th« Council. I
Sir Richd Pepper Arden, Knight, Matter of I
the ROII3* I
Earl Spe-'er, ! 5
* 1 ' Lord Aikland, I d
a " Lord WCnghatn, 0 ft
l > Sir Willin Wynne, Knight, • I'l
SylveftcrOouglafs, Esq. I "
111 the pfence of Robert Jenner, Notary Public
oue of the )eputy Regillers.
ae COL'MBIA, "j For Sentence on the
Abifha Beiard, msfter. (• fecotid Assignations "
Bufb, Hafeltine. > and Iriformationa.
n " The Lcj3s having heard the proofs read and ad- v
lc ai>ifi'o<Slois on both fides thereon, by inter- j'
locutaj;y do ee pronounced for the appeal, reversed '
a ' the fentenc appealed from, and retained the princi
pal cauife ;knd therein admitted the claim for the ''
e " ship and *go, pronounced the {hip to have belong
*d as clairtd, the fame to be rellored,
or the valii thereof paid to the claimant for the use
or of' the oijffrs and proprietors fliereof ; but direfl- ?
eo * urther>r°4>f to made of the property of the
18 car gS> al ' ordered a monition agairtfl tht captor*. c
ato bnng account of sales upon oaih, together 3
e " with tile roceeds of the sale of the ship aiid cargo. I
,c '•• A-: ARDEN,
n " Regilfsef His "Majesty's Cout,; of Ap- • .
' ' j>eal/or Prizes. c
nt
"a- ■ 1 1 1
X %/ A'UQUDTAf Jul; 13. '
fff 1 J Mr. failflfH, 1
of fdute at the hite treaty with the Creek lit- c
ne dians, in the accomplishment of the obie£t of tbe
he state of (eorgia, as yet remains t « the '
its. public, crept by a p»rtial arid anonymous. ptibK- i
ot cat it>n at Savannah. The following letter, on that - t
ip- fubjt£l, In the Commissioners of the United '
ry StiteSj Uitten upon the spot, -with apparent can I
re- dour, am under the impression of official refponfi- <
to bility,<;xffcins the cause ; and its publication there-- i
cci fore, canist but bs very famfactary to the citiafni. 1
• Witk this view a copy from the original has been
procured, and i* committed to the-prefii.
A CITIZEN,^
Auguftz, July 20, 1756.
Si?.',
Having terminated our miffiiin h<re, by con
cluding a treaty of ptface and fiietidlhip wiih the
Creek nation, we feel it a duty we owe to your ex
cellency, to make this communication to'you ;to
inform you of the pacific difpolition of thfc'Crecks.
They have, among other things,- ({ipulatStl with
us, to carry the treaty of New-Yoik completely
into effect, and !•> aid in running the tine, from the
source of the main fork of the Oconee to the Cor*
rahee mountain ; at such time and in such manner,
as the President of the United States (hould difffS;.
The expeditions formed by your Rate relative to
the puS-chafe of certain lands guaranteed to the
Indinns, are frullrate'd. The Representative o{
the Creek nation came inftruScd by the whole na
tion, not to part with the lands. We*rere not ap
prised dt this, 'till our oegociation had been ex
tended to all the objects con'.edted immediately
with our miffiou. We on being informed of it,
thought it our duty, to examine whether any im
proper interference had been used, to produce this
determination of the nation, and we are of opi
nion, after the necessary enquiry, that there was
not aa/fuch iuterfeience, on the part of any of x
the citizens of the United States.
From the long, repeated aad, friendly conven
tions we have had with the chiefs, we have been a
ble to draw from them forae information, which
wc owe to our flotations to give freely td you: It
is, that it will require fomc time, and a confidera*
bit degree of prudence,, to impress on-the Indians,
a confidence in the uprightnefsof the views of your
government, and in the friendly and peaceable in»
tentions of its citizens, who inhabit the frootiecs ;
and until fueh confidence is established, we are of -
opinion, that all attempts to acquire land from them
by fair and open purchase, will be incTFeftual, v
With our bell for the prosperity of the
Hate of Georgia, >
We have the honor to be,
I SIR,
, I Your obedient fervanti,
B. HAWKINS,
: G. CI.YMER,
r I A. PICKENS.
s I His Excellency Jarer Irwin, '
f I Governor of the State of Georgia. ,
: WILMINGTON, Augujt
" I Yesterday arrived at this port, the ship Swan
-- I wick, eapt. Sylvc&er, from Belfail, 6 wjeks out,
1 I with 150 pafTengers, all in perfect health.
0 BALTIMORE, Augi.ll 5.
K I Capt. Richard Flinn, of the brig Triton, lying in
I the port of Leogane, hasfent the following ad»
y I vertifement for publication, and reque.fls that it
0 1 should appear in every paper in the United State*.
'» { BE it known thioughout thJ'Unitcd States, that
" I Witlipm Camp, fearaan on board the brig Triton,
0 1 of, Philadelphia, and a native of NeW-Jersey, (as
jhe hasfworn by. a certificatefigned byCltment Bid-
I die, Esq. of Philadelphia) has informed ths offi
e' cers of the prirateers fitted out at Leogane, that
'* j'Richftrd Flinn had taken goods on boa/d said veflel
ri ' at Cape NidiSla Mole, and that part of the cargo
was Dritifh propei ty and owned by a French en)!- *
r * gi*nf. In consequence of which the said brig wife
j detai led sot trial, and the said RichUrd Flinn denied
118 I access to her, although it fully appeared by the vcf«
I fel's papers, that the whole of the cargrf on boat d
es j was truly and bona fide American property, and
a Iconfigned to said master, who is a citizen of the
at I United States, and the veflel has been plundered of
en I her cargo, withou condemnation.
Dated at Leogane, 115 th July, 1796.
I Richard Flinn.
I ' We whose nxmes art hereunto fu'bferibed, do
j certify and declare, (hat full f»ith and credit is due
§" I (in oUr opinion) to the above declaration.
W'illiim Smale, 1
rar I George Revell,
ne- I , James Philips,
- I Thomas S. Hodgkin.
I Leogane, 13th July, 17964 . ■
of MIDDLETOWN, (Conn.) Augoft S .
I Thomas Starr, of this city, is eommittti to pri-
Ifen, to have tiial at the next Sup*rior Court for
I dangerously wounding Samuel Cornwell, whom he
-1 dabbed in 7 different places with a penknife, on
I Tuesday lad, Cornwell is yet alive !
slic PARIS, May 15. 1
COLLOT AND VARENNES.
the Pomme, one of the Colonial Deputies, haran
ons nounced to the Council of Five Hundred, that
Collpt d'Heibois, and Billaud Varenncs, who
ad- vvere tranfpsrted to Cayenne, began to tyrannize
ter- over that co,on >'' as ,! 'ey had done ui France. Col
•fed !ot cau^fd himfelf to be proclaimed.king. He
nci- h,,tJ the fyflem of requisition, the mdxi
the "* lim » and revolutionary committees and tribunals.
He was also preparing to set up a guillotine. Pom- .
red, me l^cn deman<^e< '> the colonies ought thus to
u k be infefled with those wretches, whom France was
compelled to drive from its territories ?
tbe A committee is to be formed, for the purpose
:or». coufidering what fhail in future be the manner
' he *' and deftinatiyi to be fixed upon in cafcs of trans
portation. '
FRANKFORT (Germany) May 14.
They complain very muph at Vienna of the eon
dud of the J'icdmontefe troops, and RHi more of
the government of Genoa. They observe that the
— French themselves declire in their reports that the.
Imperial troops fought witb the greaKli,
they conclude.from thertce tha'r the»"i'fi/erfc thry
have experienced may be attributed to fume secret
lit- cause. So faysjhe Gafcette of Mayefice. .
tbe Letters front the army in Italy aa
the nounce that general count d'Argenteau is ncciifi/J,
ibk- if not of t.reafon, at It-ast of failing f» transmitting
that- to the generals who comm4nded under bim, the or
ited der of monf. Beaulieu. Monf, - d'Argenteau and
can feverjd of his officers have been arr;!Vd by the
jnfi- commander in.chief, and coudue'tad to Pavia, where
'*r<- the firft ho been already fubje&id to djveri inter
tni. rogatories. y
si. lu/Li-■'23\ *Treasury of the United States.
NOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are er
may be Creditors of the United States, for any funs»
of the Funded Debt, or Sio-k, fairing a prfeni intereji of Jtx
per centum per annum.
• ft, That purfuanf to an Act ot Congress passed on the
»Bth day of April, 1796, in titled an aiJt in addition to an
intituled " An ad making further provision for tha
support of public cradit, and for the redemption of the -
public debr." the laid debt or ftoek will be reimbursed and
Paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be qjade ori (he lad dayj of March, June and Septcm
" ber for tie present year, and from the year one thousand
" seven hundred~and niliety-feven, to the year one thou
" sand tight hundred & eighteen inclusive, at the rate of
" Hoc and One half per centum upon the original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lafl. day of
* Deccmbar for the present year, and from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
'' one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclufivo, at
*' the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" gitfal capital; and by 3 dividend to bt ma'c on the hft
" <Uy of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" Wred and eighteen, of such l'um, as will be then aile
'' quate, according to the contrail, for the final redemp
•• tion of the {aid stock." ,
2d. All diftin&ion between payments on account of
Interef and Principal keipg thus aboliihed by the establish
ment ot the permanent rule of reimbursement aboy« de
scribed, it ha« become necellary to vary accordingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
is eftabtilhed for all powers of attorney which may be
granted aftpr the due pramolgation ol this notice, viz.
KNOir ALL MEN BT THESE PRESENTS, that
I of in
v da make, conjlitute and appoint
ilf my true and lavrful At'
tomey,for me, and in my to receive tbr dividends •which 'are,
\ or fb.ill be payable aesording'to law, on the (here describing the
stock) Jlanding in my name in the boots of (he-re describing the
books of the Treasury or the Commissioner of Loans,
where the stock is credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
/ attorney is to continue) with pcrjjgr also an attorney or attor-
Hics under him, for that purpofc to make andfubfiitittc,andto do aU
lawful a£is rcqiiifttefor cffeiling the premises, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that my said Attorney or bisfubjlitutc ,Jball lawful
ly. do, by virtue hereof.
In Witness hereof, I bepue hereunto set my Hand and Seal the
day of in the year
Sealed and Delivered
in presence of,
BE IT KNOWN, that on the Hay of
before me personally came
■within named and ackrlovledgci the above letter of attorney to be
kil aft and ditd.
■In tejlintony whereof I have hereunto set my Hand and affix
ed Seal the day ■ and year last afbrefaid..
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pUrsuant to directions
from the Secretary of the T rdSifury.
' SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Treasurer of'the United States.
July*!. w & st Z J.
War-Office of the United States,
May 4th, 1796.
THE following Rules, explanatory of those published
the 15th February, 1789, are to be observed by all
persons entitled to Lands, in purfuanee of resolves of
Congress.
Every certificate of the acknowledgment of a deei -er
power of attorney, either before a notary public or other
magistrate, milt, in addition to -what is usual, set fortji
that the purfon making the acknowledgment is known to
the notary or other magistrate ; for which purpose words
of the following import must be inlcrtad in the certificate.
" And I do moreover certify that the said A B making
this acknowledgment has been for personally
known to me.".
If the notary or other magistrate has reason to believe
that he is the person he raprefents himfelf to be, he wil
also certify it.
Andifthe proof be made by a witnefsorwitneffes,h« or
theymuft swear to some general ftateof their knowledge of
him, which matter mult be set forth in the certificate ; and
the notary -public, or other magistrate, before whom
acknowledgment is made, must also set forth that the wit
nelsor wituelffeshas or have been for upwards of
penonally known to him.
If a jufticC of the peace is employed, the clerk «rf the
court of the corporation or county must certify that such
person is a justice of the peace of the county or corpora
tion as the cafe may be, and that full faith is due to his
ads as such. JAMES M'HENRY,
Secretary of W*r-
May 12. ta<u/3m
INFORMATION
IS given daily of the drawing of tbe WASHINGTON
LOTTERY, at th« Office
No. 147 Cbefnut Jireet,
between Fourth and Fifth ftreots. Also, where Tickets
may "yet be had. Aug. 5. eo
The Ninth day's drawing is arrived.
Samuel Richardet,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlwner
Merchants, that he has this day opened Che CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia
The Stibfcription Room will be furniftied with all the
daily "papers publithed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial 'eitits of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and nor.e permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, JeHies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times be procurod'at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the cWoiccft of "Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the 'most
approved Malt Liquors froaiLondon and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and eaflieft
produdtionsef the Season.
Large and small Parties, tn- (ingle Gentlempn, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hoitrsnsoft convenient to thamfelves—a cold Collation is
regularly kopt for coiweniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms win he completely furnifhed, and
the utmost attention paid to deanlinefs, and every other
reqtrifile.
gf S*Mt)EL Rich audet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Priends, and the Public at
large; and with for their favours, ■he pledget
himfeK that nothing 011 His part lhallbe wanting topre
fervc that patronage with which lie has been to di£tingel(h
ingly :'»onored.
Philadelphia, April 19. . . eo
Insurance comp. of the state of
Pennsylvania.
The Directors have declared a dividend of fixtcen dol
lars on each (bare of the capital of said company, for ths
lalt fix months whicl. will bepaidtothe ftnckholders 01
then legal reprcfentaiivcs on every day after the JMt
iadant.
S. W. Fijher,
Secretary.
August 1. «iiet.
\ .
Sales c India Goods.
The Cargo of ths ihCanges, capt. Tingcf, from Cal
> j«ta and Bengal,
«SISTINC. OF
A Large and of Bcr.gJ and Madras
CO TTOand SILK. GOODS.
AM ip WHICH ARE
' A variety fine wked andplain Mujlins,
l Dore, &c. Also, —
A Quantity f Excellent Sugar, .
J In boxes ?mi bags-and BLACK HLPPE3.,
ForSaltby
f Wiings y Francis, ce,
No. 21 fenn Street,
f June R .[ $
r The Nw World.
' SAMUEUi. SMITH,
t TNFORMS the public, thaencou raged by a liberal pa- 1
A tronage, and in complijtc with nuirarous rcquefts Jc
from Subscribers, he has detmined to antidpate the pub
lication of The New World/The firft »imbcr will ap-
pear on Monday, the I jth A tuft. Thofiwho have seen 2
C his proposals are fuflieiently aeiainted will the plan and
terms on which it is designed t conduit Bis _
_ For the information of those peons who ire not acquaint- ,
e ed, it is neceflary to obfervithat it"vill be publilh-d
twice a day, in the morring an cvininsr that the price
n is only Eight Dollars, being tlwfame wi» that of news-
c papers pfinted but once a day ;ind thatts plan will be
com*rehenfwe and liberal. to
it £T The Puhlifher offers a hbial compnfation to any
l(j person well qualified to make a cirefl ai full report of
" the Debates of the Federal and Site Lejflatures, whiah
it is his intention to puhlilb in th(New Vorld. C 8
c *,* Apvertifements will be int-ted; km the appear- m
ie ' anccof the firft number until fulher mice, lvhen Dot
exceediag a square, for forty centsor thmrft, and twen
ty cents for every subsequent inferion ; ad a confidcra
t' kle abatement will ba made when tey ar fteadi 1 y infert
j ed. Those gentkmen who have esreffe their intention
r _ of fending Advertisements, as welhj the who have such
U an intention without having exprtfed are informed
that the paper of Monday, August 15, rill be open for
their admiflion until the evening of jatuiay preceding. —
N. B. It isearneftly requested thit aliiibfcriptionfa
!je pers not yet returned, may be feat to ti prists before
the day of publication.
A faithful Pressman wanted.
Aug. 6 eot j ;th
City cf Waliingttn.
SCHEME of the LO"TEIY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT C THE
FEDERAL CITT. v
A magnificent 20,000 hollas, & J
i 8 dwclDng-houfe, j cafli 30,000, ire J s*> G#a j
I ditto is,ooo & cafli 13000 40,000
I .ditto 15,000 & cash 15000 50,000
I ditto 10,000 & ca(h iqooo '20,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10..000
1 ditto 5„ooo & cask 5,00s 10,000 n
1 calU prize of jo,ooo n
a do. 5,000 each, are, • 10,000 "
10 do. 1,000 - . io,oo» tl
jl 20 do. 500 - - 10,000 si
00 do. 100 - , . je, 000 c
aoo da. 50 - - 10,000
9r .400 do. »j - • 10,000
er *,000 do. 20 • * 20,000 c
15,000 do. IO - 150,000 ''
to <
is 16,739 Prizes. B
e. 3i,26l Blanks.
ly 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
>e N. B. To favour those who may tjcei quant icy of y,
il Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will betfct,*sT dra\vn
ticket, and the 30,000 the LyiST but one: v
»r And approved notes, securing payment ilither money
of -or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will treceived for v
id any number not less than 30 tickets.
a This Lottery will affordan elegant fpecina of the pri- -
it* vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Vlhington—
Two beautiful designs are already felcAed r the entire
fronts on two of the public, fquares;'from tie prawings
he it is proposed to erect two centre and four coifr buildings,
ch a3 soon as poilible aftpr thi? lottery is fold, dto convey
a- them, when complete, to the fortunate aenturars, in ]
lis the maimer described in the scheme for the h:el Lottery.
A nett dedu<ftio*i of five per cent, will beetle to defray
tJie necessary expenses of printing, &c. an<thc surplus 8
will be made a part of the fund iritendei} foabeNatianal
— University, to be eredled within the city of Vlhington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as thickets are
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable ithirty days
'N after it is finifhsd ; and any prizes for whi fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve mohs after the
drawing is closed, are to be confideredls gin towards ■
Ets the funJ for the .University ; it being determed to fettle
the whole business in a year from the eidiog , the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as fec'uri.
— The real fepjirities given for the .payment otbePfiees,
: are held by the President and two Directors' the Bank
qf Columbia, and are valued at more than :alf the a (
fp mount ot the lottery.
*Y The twenty Biur gentlemen who by app'ntmeftt of
he Ae late Commilfioners a (lifted in the manageent of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake thisduoui taflc
he a second time on behalf of the public; a fuffient num
of. ber of these having kmdly accrued, it is hopl that the
m . friends to a National University and the otherederal ob
ied je<ftsmay continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different |rts of the
jty Continetit as well as from Europe, where he tickets
, tSi have been sent for sale, the public are assure that th«
drawing will speedily commenoe, and that tl care and
ith caution unavoidably necessary to infurfe a fafe ifpofai of
oft tha tickets, has rendered the fnor ftifpeufion indpenfable.
es. SAMUEL BLODJIT.
ieft .5. Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colmhia ;of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilma, Boston ;
be of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richsd Wells,
at Ferry. ;o
■»' FOR SALE, **""
A very Valuable .
her P ALLED . T WITT EN H Alts, fit U! e in the
VJ townlhip of Upper Derby, andcountyof lelaware,
, 7 *-* "I'les from Philadelphia, and half a miltfrom the'
new Western road! containing 230 acres df exctk'nt land,
; 45 of which are good watered meadow, 90" priie wood
£ land, and themft arable o£ t4w -firft- <fuaKty. I lcse are
on the premises a good two story brick house, wit 4 «ooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pmfi-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame bar, (tables,
and Other convenient buildings-, a smoke-house ndione'
— fpring-hotrfe ; two orchwds snd one f^each-.
QJ The n eids ire all in-clever, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to havtrfhrtvantage
of water in each of them, which renders it pecui irly con
venient for grazing.
dol- The Ctuatiop is plca&m and healthy, aad frorrthe high
the euhrvnfcon of the laud, the good neighbourhood and the
sor vicinity to the city, «is very suitable for a gerlesnan's
r*Rh country feat.
The foregoing is yart of the estate of Jacob larman,
deccaicd, and offered for fcde By
?■ Mordecai Levis»
" OA. 9. *0 ] Exeaitor.
For sale by tht fubfcnbers» d
IN UN* * f REF.T, . * n
tso quarter Chests f.'efli Kyfon sea;
100 ditto do; fVelh Souchong -ea !
390 Bores China, containing small te- letts o 4»
pieces;
400 pieces Bandanoes.
Hillings y Fffincis.
January 30 " taw-
Lottery
FOR railing fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollar* a/id fifty cents, by a deduction of ''Keen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
I Prize of 500 O dollars ; i« dollars 5000
I 1000 1000
1 500 s°°
j 200 lOCQ
20 100 » & .°® -
99 jo 495°
*5 , S°°°
2000 1 0 10,000
■5 Lad drawn numbers of 1000 dollar* each, 5000
2331 Prizes. 44>4SP
4018 Blanks.
I •
6350 Tic Vets at Seven Dollars each, 44.45°
By order of the Dirc&oVs of tjie Society for eftablifh
mg Ufeful ManufaiStures, the fuperintendayts of the Pat-,
erion Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing S«heme to the publi®, and have direiSted them
to refund the money to those persons who have purchased
in the farmer Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in thisT.ottery.
The lottery has a&ually commenced drawing, arvd wiil
contiuuenntil fmilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
sooth Second street, who will giv« information where tick
i ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- GUMMING, 7
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, £ Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA-, J
June 18 eo
Just Published,
BY THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stoat HouJl, N#- J1 South Sccond Street,
neatly printed in one volume quarto, price fix
dollars the fine paper, or five dollars the com
mon:
The Four Gospels,
TRANI ATED FROM THE QREEK;
With preliminary DifTerta ions, and Notes critical and eXT
planatory.
By GEORGE CAMPBELL, D. D. F. R. S.
Isfc. Principal tf Marifchul College, Aberdeen.
%* Th» chara&er of the author, for acutenefs
and erudition has been cftablifhed by his essay an' .
miracles in aofwer to David Hume," the greatest
masterpiece of the kind ever published, and by his
" Philosophy of Rhetoric," and to the merit of
the prefeot work, the result of nearly forty years
study and application, and the fubitance of his
course of le&ures in his official capacity, the
reviewers have given ample tettimony, but their ac *
count, however honorable to the work, is too
for a place in this advertifemeht, the work howev
er is now presented in an American edition at not
more than half the price of the London copy.
July 29. 4W2W
LANDS, ~~
In Harrifop. county, Virginia, for Sale,
f TT'ttUR iVaSs containing 5000 acres each, and a moiety
a JL of one other tradt of 5000 acres, all fitusted on the
waters of Elk and Hughes's river.
J For further particulars enquire at No. 70 Chefnut-S reet,
r where the Pater.ts may be seen.
Aug. 6 . - . . fw&m.tt
This Day is Pnblilhed,
e By WILLIAM COBBETT,
3 Ni>rt% Second-Jlrcet, eppoftte ChriJPt Church,
y The Life and Adventures of
"PETER PORCUPINE;
With a full and exa&. account of all his authoring tranf
a&ions in America. By Peter Porcupine himfelf.
j *3t_
CABLES,
r s From 16 to 9 J inches, for sale by
e e yeremiah Warder,
1, July J » § No 12 north Third-street, J
Treasury Department, Augujl 3, 1796.
Public Norice is hereby Given,
s > IJS-purfuancejftfin ail of Congreft, passed on tke . l£ih.
k A day May, 1796, entitled "An adt m-oviding " for
a tile sale of the lands of the United States, m the Territo
ry north weft of the riyer Ohio, and above the. mouth of
of Kentucky river," that the feftiohs or lots of land defcri
htd ia the annexed fehedule, lying in the feveo ranges of
flc townfcips, which were furveyediq pursuance of an ordi
b- nance «f Congress, pafled on the twentieth day of May,
tie in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five
b- will be*xpofed forfaie at Public vendue, in the town ol
Pittsburgh in Pennsylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
iie O>ftober next, and thenceforward, from day to day until
:ts the fe-ft day of December enfumg, unless the said lots fliall
he be sooner fold, in the manner, and on the terms and con.
nd ditions herein after mentioned, to wit:
or lots aII be fold under the di
le. region «f the Governor or Secretarv of the Western Ter
ritory, and such perflSn as the Prefio'ent of the United
of States may specially app«int for that purpose.
M I ,' he fl!d fe . aions or lots ftiall be fold to the hleheft
Us, bidder, but no sale can be made for less than two dollars
_ acre of the quantity of land contained in such lot or
lection.
3. The highest bidder as before mentioned, must depo
sit at the time of sale, one twentieth part of the purcl jife
the the j?? nds of such P erfoa President of the
re United States Ihail appoint to attend the sales for that pur
thc P 0 ,' whlo ' 1 W1 " bo forfeited, if a moiety of the fnm bid,
nd, we said twentieth part, fliall not be paid witr.iu
< thirty days From the time of sale.
are . U F oa of a moiety.of. tie parciiafe money
ims m 1 , ™ arincr I><for(: mentjoned, the purchaser wi.l be
fell Cnt flf „° one y e " 8 crcdit for the remaining moiety :
las, ?"* (hiil " Ceive fTom the Governor «r Secretary of the
me, Jr e r r " T «iitory, ana the person who fliall be appointed
ch- 7 r c Ptefident of the United States, to direct the sales, a
el certificate describing th« lot or fidion purchased, and de
age V ai lcethe f um P a 'donaccount, the balance remaining due,
■° n - t "?!i W , , rU L Ct blU,lce hecomes payable, and that
?'jT 1 » em mentJO " ed . will be forfeited, if the
ligl. no '' l,cn -, but if the said balance (hall
thc TT •Jo rge '^ 5 ' t!,e fame to tie Treasurer of
an's , y mtcd States, the purchaser or his aflignce or other
Tentative, Shall J, e entitled to a 'patent for the
nan, I:u . d °" J llß , prodscing to the Secretary of State n re
,72 r cndorfed U P°» the certificate. But
any purchaser fliall make payment of the whole of the
. '' c mone y, at the time when the payment of the
r. firft moiety is direfiod t<f bcmjde, he will he sntitled to a
»
deduiti»n of ten per centum on the part for which a. '
dit is authorizod to-be gives; and his patent (hall be
mediately iflbed.
Given under my'hand it Philadelphia, the day
tear above mentioned
Or.IVFR woLCorr.
Scci' tar v of the Trca^tuv
Schfdule of fe Slant of townjlips, or frattijnai < •
of toiunjhipi, to be fuU at Pi:tjburgh,-i*purfiu..
of the 6th feSian of an aft of Lopgrcfs, pjfid
■ the 18th day of May, i 796.
*Z I oil. i .
!s £ 1«: i!i
°i| § 6 . Hll ° -<: s.
j 1 1 •" 1 jgf 1 ■ 1
id Range. 6[hTownihip. 6th Range.
lit TowYifftrp. Ran 640 each iftTdwnfnlp.
28 « 65 14 1 7 3 »°
29 256 95 17310640 each xB, 270
30 250 75 25336 6 4 oeach 21 gSO
34 240 90 gthTownlhip. 22 166 40
each 3314:640 ?ach 23 427
2d Township. i7ajio 64oeach 24 64c
19 140 23 |640 27 151 So
20 170 70 25a30i640each zßajo64oegch
„ 21 185 3.?a36,64o|each' jj <r8
22 2 30 iothTawnfhip. 34336 64oeach
25 488 80 ia2 1640 tach 2d Town (hip.
26227 64oe3ch 53i464oeach x 126
28 560 17 a2o 64c each 2 440
29 551 60 13-336:640 each 3 448
jq 564 xithrfownfhip. 4 456
31-36 640 each iai4 640 each 5 464
4thTowufi)ip. 17320 640 each 6 472
19' 64 233361640 each 7 340
6 f , 4 thRrNGE. 640 each
*6 38760 lftTownnii i 7 a»o 640 each
a 7 36 > > £ 23336 640 each
31 a 32 6(40 each 4 r,,6 -o 3dXovnfl,ip..
33 616 30 4o 1 l 4
34 445 .20 J 2 1478
« "V{° 3533? S4O each 3 4*6
3, ' „.° adT ownfhip. 4 \ *' 4
jthTowiifhip. 5 J0»
6 l »l»° 3a6 4-each 6 '{ IO ■
12 479 3o J 6 zo 7.314 640 eieh
17 3°4 15 g " each
18 6^B ;° 9 ai2 Uo each each
S3, 45 o 7,5 T , •• jthTownfbip.
24 fr '4 '40 1 < 18 l
30 640 «7«c HO -3cj, * g
»„ 2333- >4oe.ch J
16 64a f 3dTown(bip. I 4 " .
—r iai4j64oeach ? 54°
ad Range. 17320
iftTownfhip. i3a3.fii(i4cUa.ch 7214.4' eath
18 I 7| so sth Town fl>ip4 ' )4 eac^
34 161 50 1214640! each !fif-p ' 4 V :a ' '
3fiTownlhip. each ' ownihip.
®4a26 640 each 23336 640 each 1 '
28 499 16 7th'i'own(hip. 1 40
29 '64c ia» 64©e3fh 3
3*. each 537 64oeach 4 -'J 1 6°
4th I'ownfhip. 12313 6»,0 eafh b
11 26 40. i£ai9 640 each . ,
12 39; 5 C 25- 64b 7a 14 j 4 c «ach
13 5 J 5° 30*36 64oeach encb
15 27 50 Oth'l ownftip. '3 a v?o each.
16 250 20 1 ji £tl 1 owr.fhip.
ij 524 17320 64cieach i aI 4 640 each
18 64c 13 '7«o64=:eack
|,1J 63, 1 Jtli.Townfllip. J 3 a 3® 640 each
' 20 58, 80 n.4 .',4?ea ( *r. *' on* nfmp.
21 |1536 21 17320 640 each J "4*64- each
S2a3664cjeath 640 each , 7 a 640 each
sthTown(hip.' nthTownlhip. *3 *36 640.each
5 'iai 4 64o|ea<h
637 fuc .ach 17320640 each 1 ai4
43325 64c. each 23 .ach '7>2e
17 atß 64c each ~'= 1 3 HO each
3233664 c ach n tsthTo ; vn p : :
JlhTownlhip. 1*14640.0^
|6 40 j 18 2 74 4© 17MC 640 eacii
BthTownWp " 87 *3»36 64o|rach
ias 64o|each 427 5° 7 th R.iNGf.
6 44c 4 ift Tew'nfhip.
7a 14 640 car! ' 30 I 4:20
17*20 640 each 3V 36 I 132! 50
*3'3« 640^ h 29a>01640each 2dTowrifti ? .
9 ? T , ap- 31 18 3 z 3s
6 640 co 4
8 312 30 4 °t, 5a6 <"'4oeack
r „ c.r ■ 33.336640cach •>
, . 2<lTowi)fnip. .
J3ai4 64c each n ,** 10311 64c eadi
, ,2 100 20
if a2O 64c rach 14 30
»j336 64o;ach I7ais 640 each
3d Range. 5 456 'J i
ad Township. 6 464 80 ? h
" 15 «4ot 7 %»>
16 6co 8 618 , a V i ISC .
ao 557 jo 9 ai4 640 each l a^ o 4 °4 J ;
aiaai 640 each 17 320 64c each _ ,
23 M° 9 'Vi 6 640 " Ch 1" A4O each
aj a3fii4oeach 4th owninipf. 6 | 6 ach
SdTown/lup. 13 M 640 each Townlhi
9 18860 i7*ao 640 each
10 344 23*36 . .?LT
11 267 fithTownftipji J»ogo|each
12 152 I ai^64 9 each | Qmn(k -
Y, j
16218 640 each SlTownlbifi.J'JJJ jJ t>rfl !
19 217 JO iai4 6 4
30 616 7J 64c *ach j r (h
41 336 640 each 2333664 c each j 6 , c leach
4th Townihip. lothTownfhip. 1 540.Lch#
I 170 ■ Townlhlp .
: 1 544 [ 7a»c » 4 0-ach;. 6 K
3 320 j 3 a 3 6lD4cleaclijl - 6 J e ach 1
4 4jo iathTownfh.p.j| 1 66 L C h
«. 5 IM> W«4|64e eacV,^ Towl laip.
64c n«heH| allfi 64oe3ch
7 J<>3 23a36|6 4 c|e3ch! ch
Ba 9 64c each uthTownlh.p? - 6 6 ;aeh
10 54c 80 13T4
11.51, 70 1732 c Meach, ach
f iaa#4 64© ach 23»3^64«|ea t h -L e3[h
! 233301640 each
1 NOTE.
a THE quantities of Lands in the several townlhips be •
_ fore mentioned, are exchifive of the Lotsrcfervedby the
United States and also of thofc formerly fold.—The ag
t gregate quantities in the several townfhirs or frailina "
e parts of townships, have been ascertained by aiftual fuv
[| vey ; the quantities in particular lots or iedliots, hav
,f been 110 other wife ascertained than by calculation.
r •" ,1,1,, 1 mil" -
£■ ' " " ;
■" PRINTED BY JOHN FBNN'
% —No. Ix 9—
LC CHtSKUT-SIRItT.
a fPrke Eight Dolkis per :