* • t • ■> ;Q
. j:
#a?ette UllttetJStates, 6 s Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Numbs, 1!4 6.] TVESDATEVEIffA'G, SEPTEMBER 6, ,796- £ frouw _
_— ' 11 ' T,.tt A vvi irorl I Unfrn 1 1 nrtu S».
ROSS & SIMSON,
HAVI FOR S LE, A
EXCELLENT FOURTH P ROOF /\
Jamaica Spirits; J now
And to dispose of, , °
The fine, fafi-failing fehooner
SWAL L OW, Ap
of BJiimore, about 140 tons burthen.
August 1)9. J*2 /
For Sale or Charter,
THE F AST-S AI LING SHIf .
LIGHT-HORSE, A *
I.VING at Me IT. ]. & R. Wain'? wharf,
two hundred and seventy tons burthen, a (lout, ftsong
vessel, and well found. For terms apply to
Joseph Anthony & Co. u
Sept. 1. —
— Men
At South-street wharf,
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft. August, So
by snoW Hope, from Jamaica, and sloop Sally, Su
from Port-au-Prince, D <
■?00 Hhds. COFFEE, so
70 Hhds. SUGAR. ®*
Alh, the cargo of the Swedijh brig Gufiaf Adolphe, El
capt. Ramfre, from Gibraltar, D
ift and /,th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds. Si
Hazle Nuts in sacks J
St. Übcs SALT, far file by £
PETER BLIGHT. Fi
fjk— a. For Charter,
, >At- The said brig
\ MMmS GUS-IVAF ADOLPHE,
A Swede, with a Mediterranean pass,«
SSESSrfe.'- a v fioewflel, about 2t>o tons bur
" Ao g .:r.
FOR SALE, I 1
The Ihip STAR, w
1 John Vanneman, Master, IJ
T TING at H'alnut-ftriet wharf. Philadel- r
?—3 I 1 phia built, of live oak and cedar, will
carry about 3-200 barrels'is two years old, and in com
olea order to receive a cargo —For terms apj*y to
plea oraerto THOS 3c JOHN KETt.AND. p
Who have also for sale said vessels cargo—conflfting of— ! v . y
Wine and Porter bottles, abli
Window G ass, 6 by 8 to 16 by 12. 1
Pipes in boxes
T.arthen-WaA in crates. _
' Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, &c.
W9 , rl,. , £
For Sale, I Wi
Or for Charter to the Well-Indies, ■
*£8S c e'R'S S, -
Philadelphia Built,
/~yp Live Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 350= bar- f
U rels, now difchargulg at Latimer's wharf. I'hisvef- >-
fel is in excellent repair, well found and will bear a tho
rovgh examination, and as soon as discharged will be rea
dy to take in a cargo. - .Far ttrroj.a>fi}y to —£2
John Vaughan.
July 28 ?
"Siv FOR SALE -
The Brig PUNCH,.
"Aa entire new veflel, built, finiftied and fitted
in the bed manner. One hundred and thirty-fix
tone burthen, and will fail remarkably fait, tor
terms apply to Mr. N. Sage, at the George tavern,
or to JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
Augvfi 26, 1796. 1.1 ~
For Sale or Charter,
B O S T. O N, to
BURTHEN about 2000 Bbls. of flour—fhe may be sent m
to sea at a small cxpence, her fails and rigging being in
very good order—apply f , ° y
'James Campbell, or cc
Geerge Latimer.
■April 19, — la
CABLES, v
From 16 to 9 i inches, for sale by d *
j'eremiah Warder, Ci
j u jy § No 12 north Th-llirdrcet. b
TAKE NOTICE. «
THE fubferiber intends to make application for a re- .
ne wa of the following certificate, supposed to be d
loft on the passage to England in April 1794- ; s
Certifies!e No. 10335, dated 15th November, 1793,
for I'i \a dollars and 92 cents —Six per cent, domcihe
debt on the books of the Treasury of the United States f
in the name of the Hon. John Trevor. 0
ROBERT BIRD, at Johii Warder s.
Philadelphia, August 30th, 179 6 - * law 6w f
~~ "notice. '
nhHE Subscriber, having been reduced in his circum b
fiances, by sundry misfortunes,, and bemg thereby j.
nuable to latisfy his jull debts, hereby gives notice to his t
Creditors and to all pcrfons concerned, that he intends to n
apply to the General Alterably of Maryland at their next
felon to be held on the fir ft Monday of November next. ,
, ht W-fc -- - '
Eafton, ift of the 9th month, 1796. iawtiltMN r
: FOR SALE.T 1
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, 1
in pipes and hogsheads
(3stretj genuine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland i
Earthen Ware, in crates ,
Basket Salt, in hogiheads ,
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead ,
Steel, German and Russia, in barrels f ,
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpahn canvas,
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, -by ,
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
July 19 " :
W A A T T E D,
An APPRENTICE to-the Printing Bufmtfi.
Enquire »t this Office. Aug. 19
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut lp
street, between Front »nd' Second streets, in which
Messrs. James Calbraith &Co. have for man> years (and S c
now do) carried on hufmefs. J
PoffefTion will be given in one month, or sooner. A
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH. On 1
April 21. §
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the best quality and on reasonable terms,
fOR SALE BY Qf
Philip Nick/in iff Co.
August 16. dtf Lan<
'i Wm. HOLDERNKSSE, A
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals i from Europe and
the East Indies, a well feleelcd assortment of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Halaerdaihery Goods; which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest term» ; A
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
' Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and (fiver
'* ' Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulirful ditto The
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffetiis.luteftringsand colorod Pcrfians
Bandano Handkerchiefs A
Long and Ihort Nankeens i*J
e > Englilh Mantuas of the firft quality
Damask table linen and napkins, very fine j{
Silk Hosiery, an elegant assortment
Thead and cqtton do
Umbrellas —green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
lriih Linens, do. &c. &c. Junf 14 §
• *»
French Goods.
r Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-de- J
I'!' Grace,
20 Trunks "> [ a( j; e3 - gHOES of all colors forts and sizes rr
— I Cafe j
I Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS
I Ditto Fine LAWN Re !
I Ditto best fine CAMBRIC wo
I Ditto Ladies' best fhainmy and Gre ioble Gloves ]
el- For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. -c
rill Allg. 24 the
A Book-Keeper, _<
OR Clerk'? place is wanted by a person properly quali- firl
fied, and whose charader will be found unexception
able. Apply to the Printer. De
Aug. 11 ar )
FOR SALE, ftj
A Complete F.ont of Brevier, la'
TTNtirely new, and yet unopened. The weight of this
Lj 'font is about 312 lb. It is from the Foupdery of
Wilson & Sons, Glasgow, and will be fold at cost & charges. —
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette ot the Unitde C(
States, 119 Chefnut -street. Aug. 19 C(
New-England RUM in Hhds.
, ar . /COUNTRY CilN in barrels, B(
,ef- V>i JUNIPER BERRIES in Calks,
ho- SPERMACETI, }
ea- COM IMON WHALE, and [ OIL. g
TANNERS 3
SPERMACETI CANDLES,
Tallow Ditto, Mould and Dipt
L_ White SOAP, in Boxes Pi
Best Boston BEEF, in barrels and half barrels
CODFISH, in hhds,
Best Boston MACKREL, in barrels, and
A few choice fmoaked SALMON, For Sale by —
ted JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.. y
C IX Alf®, a small invoice of well assorted
For INDIA GOODS,
:rB ' JUST ARRIVED. T
Aug. 13 fio -»
(# - - ' 1 b'
' A very valuable Merchant Mill, o;
A DISTILLERY and BREWERY, and sundry STONE ir
QUARRIES to be let. C(
I will rent ray merchant Mill at the little Falls of Po- P
towmac, for any term not less than seven, nor more than "
eleven years, from the firft day of September next. ' The
f ellt mill-house is 42 by 40 feet, three stories high, built with -
S V stone, and has in it three pairs of French Burr Stones, two
overlhot 18 feet water-wheels, and Evans's machinery
r complete, with every other thing proper and neceflary for
carrying on the business with dispatch, and at as little ex
pense as possible, all in good order.—From the mill to my r
$ landing on the Potomac river, (where craft, of any bur
then may deliver grain and take in flour) it is about 40 0
yards, and from thence by water ti< George-Town and a
the City of Walhington, about 3 miles, and to Alexan- p
dria about 11 miles. This situation, aided by a fulficient a!
capital, will command the produce of a very cxtenfive k
et. back country, where large quantities of wheat and other 0
grain is annually made, the distance to it being from 8 "
to 10 miles less than to any market town upon the navi-
gation of the Potowniac. There are on the premises a
U> be large stone Coopers'lh ap, a stone granary, and a commo
dious miller's house. A* the landing aforei'aid a bridge
is now building over the Potomac, which is in great for-
! '' 0' wardnefs and probably will be finiftied the ensuing fall.
1C 1C There are also on the premises, a Brewery and Diftille
a ' ry, built with stone, in them are three stills, two coppers
~ or boilers, with every neceflary article, all new, and in
,S" good order, and fufficiently latge to carry on the Brew
nv ery and Distillery upon a very extensive plan. This prop
erty 1 will rent for the fame term of years.
Upon my lands adjoining the premises, and along the
cum banks of the river, where craft inay load with ease and dif
:reby p atc h, is an inmenfe quantity of building and lounda
:o h' 6 tion-ftones. Four quarries are now open, and as many
to more may be opened with ease : the stone taken from these
next quarries is better, and has the preference at this market,
next " to any other stone brought to it. I will rent these quarries
separately or together as may best suit.
Q n t jj C to p 0 f the hill, and about 200 yards from the
IMN m ;i[ ) tt stone Dwelling-house, large enough for the ac- 1
commoda'tion of a family : also, a kitchen, dairy, smoke- (
house, &c. and a garden, enciofed and in cultivation, the 1
s old foi of which is equal in goodness to any in this state. I ,
' will also rent this property. 1
Adjoining to the Brewery and Distillery is a Smith's 1
Clop, in which is a complete set of Blacksmith's tools, !
which 1 will also rent, and if agreeable I will hire to the
tenant two negro blacksmiths, one of them is a complete
workman.
If I rent out the stone quarries, I will fell three crafts,
which were bnilt for the purpofc of carrying stone : they
will altogether bring upwards of 90 perch. Immediate
nvas, pofleflion will be given, for terms apply to the fubferib
er in this town.
D. The Mill, Brewery and Distillery, with their appurten
§ ances, will be deliverad to the tenant or tenants in good
repair, and muftbe so returned, at the expiration of the
lease orleafes.
fs. PHILIP RICHARD FENDALL.
Altxandtia, Aug. 16—85 .jflw
Just Arrived,
Ip th« Show Boston, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li-
verpool,
; 5000 Buihela SALT ;
100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; and
An Assortment of SHIP CHANDLERY;
FOR SALE
Ou board, at Pine-flreet wharf. Apply to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April 29. 5_
St. Croix SUGAR and MOLASSES* %
' A 1
Landing from on board tta fclioohcr Little Tom, Capt.
Thomas Dennett, at Race-street wharf,
A choice parcel of St. Croix Sugar,
and a few hogsheads of Molafies. t.
1 ' For Sale by
' Pragers and Co.
August jo d TO 41
r Sales of India Goods. y
The Cargo the fiiip Ganges, capt. from Cal- —■
cutta and Bengal,
IS CONSMTI&G OF
A Large and general affcrtment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS. j}
AMONG WHICH ARE * :
A variety Jine worked and plain Muslins, 7 1
Doreas, ite. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and .BLACK. PEPPER, t
For Sale by
Willings Francis,
No. ai Penn Street. n
June 8 ■ §_
TAKE NOTICE,
i r-pHAT application will be made for the renewal of
X the following certificates, ilTueJ by Joseph Notrrfe,
Regider of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Grif
wold, Esq. of Norwich, ConneiSlicut —
I certificate,-lix per cent»domeltic flock, No. n
—dated the i7thDecember, 1795, bearing interest from
_ the firft day of January, 1791, fw i>597 65-100 dol
~ 1 ditto, three per cent, domeltic Aock, No. 10,682
—dated December 16, 1795. bearing interest from the Q[
li- firft day of January, 1791, for 994 dolla''s
n- 1 ditto, deferred stock : No. 9,166— 'dated the 17th
December, 1795, bearing interest from the firft Janu
ary, 1801, for 798 83-100 dollars.
~ Said certificates are fuppoltd to have been loft or
fto'en in this city some time in December or January
last. JOSEPH THOMAS,
lis No. 59, North Front-street.
of Philadelphia, July 1796. « d6w.
FOR SALE, P:
de COFFEE, in hhds. bbls. & bags^
COTTON, of Deraerara, and >• entitledto drawback
SOAL-LEATHER } Ot
Also,
BOSTON BEEF, and Mould and Dipt CANDLES.
Apply to ISAAC HARVEY, Jun.
No. 5 south Water-street. <~
8 mo. 20. W -
Prime St. Croix Sugar & Rum, 'tv
Laiiiling at Cliffords Wharf, from onboard the brig a
Pragers, Capt. Thomas Watson— cc
And For Sale by gi
Pragers £9* co. J
AuSuft 26. 1 ot ' p
At a special meeting of the Board of Di- b
reaors for ejlabl'i/hing ufeful Manufactures, holden h
at Paterfon, July 8, 1 r
RESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock- £
holders of the Society be called on the firft Mon »*y,
being the third " ay of OtAober next, at Paterfon, by ten
of the clock of the fame day ; then and there to take
vj£ into confederation the propriety of dissolving the said _
corporation, agreeably to the law in such cafe made and .
Po . provided—and the Stockholders are earnestly requested
L„ n to attend the said mocting in person or by proxy.
Th e August 27 dt3Qth° '
two duty on carriages."
lery i
ex- Notice is hereby Given, \
my yHAT aerecably to an aft of Cougrefs of the Uoited (
JUr- 1 States of America, palled at Philadelphia, the 28th day f
40 of May, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey- j
and ance of perlons, and repealing the former acts that pur- £
tan- pose.—That there ftiall be levied* collected and paid, upon {
ient all carriages for the conveyance of persons, whictl shall be
ifive kept by or for any person, for his or her own use, or to let (
ther out t0 bire, or for the conveying of pallengers, the »:veral cu- J
m 3 ties and rates following, to wit. (
av -_ for and ujion every Coach, 15 dols.
upon Chariot, 12 dols.
s a upon every Poll Chariot, 12 doln
mo ~ upon every Post Chaise, 12 dols. '
*ug e upon every Phaeton, with or without top, 9 dols
or * upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
1. upon other Carriages, having panne/ work above,
:ille- > * with blinds, glafi'es or 9 dols.
pers upon four wheel carriages, having framed pods and
1 in tops with Iteel springs, 6 dols.
-ew- Upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
rop- fpriugs or jacks, 3 dols.
upon curricles with tops, 3 aols<
r the upon chaises with tops, .3 dols.
[ dif. upon chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dots.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dol*.
j upon two wheel carriages, with steel or iron springs,
rliet ' For and upon all other two wheel can iages, 2 dols.
rries upon every four wheel carriage, having framed potts
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
; be Collfftors of the Revenue of the firft furvev o'*-he
2 ac " t)i!tnd of PennYylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day
ioke- of September next,for the purpose of receiving the duties on
, the Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or SalTafras street, in theCi^y
:• I of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Cfair, Efq in the
County of Montgomery ; and at the boule of Abraham Oto
lith's hois, Esq. in the County of Bucks; of which all persons pol
tools, fclfed of fucb Carriages are defl.ed to take notice.
a the Notice is also given,
P' ete TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri
r tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to them; ope li
ra , ' cencc for carrying on the business of retailing ot Wines, in a
y less quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one
;d,ate licence for carrying or the business of retailing Spirituous li
rcrib- _ u „r S in lefsquaniities than 20 gallons, at the fame time and
at the lame places, by the officers legally authorised to graut
rten- rnffe licenses*
eood WILLIAM NICHOLS,
if the Infpeflor of the Revenue of tlie firft furveji
of the diftriftof Peonfjlvania.
,L. Qftreof Infpeffion,at ) 3*
/ Philadeiphw, 21ft Jaly 1 1796- 5 '
Dutch Goods,
Received by the Pennsylvania, from Amjlerdam.
GIN, in pipes
Morlaix
Ticklenburgs > In Bale>
OfnabuTgs J
Gernjcn "> Stripes, in cases
Haerlera }
HoUands \ DUCK,'"in ditto
Ravens
fiedticks, in ditto
Brittagne. 7 ; n ditto
Platilles 3
For mic ij THOMAS JOHN KETLAND.
AUg. 29 [
For sale by the fubicribers,
IN PtNN-STRF.ET,
tjo quarter Chests frefh Hyson lo;
ico ditto do. frefh Scuchong Tea ;
300 Boxes China, containing small tea setts of 4*
piecet;
400 pieces Bandanoes.
Willings y Francis,
January 30 . S taw '
Carolina Rice,
In tierces—
A few pipes of fourth proof Brandy,
7 by Q and 8 by 10 Window Glass,
For Sale by
Gurney & Smith.
August 3>. ' - ■—.
landing,
Froni on baUrd, the Jhip STA R, Capt. Vanneman,
About 150,000 Bottles,
from Bristol -For Sale by
F. Loppinger.
Aussft .
, JUST PUBLISHED,
And fir Sale at ihc /hop of WILLIAM COBBETT,
tppqfite (Jhriji Church,
a Pmnt, entitled
The SWAN and the WICK,
Or the Treaty of Amity and Commerce ftornfuily
rejeilad.
Ally le ha tot the fame place—*
PORCUPINE, a print.
The BLUE SHOP, a pamphlet.
A PILL FOR P. P- do -
The IMPOSTOR DETECTED, do.
Sept. S
' Published by T. STEPHENS, No. 60, South Second
flreet.
The Group j
Or, An ELEGANT REPRESENTATION
illustrated.
Embellished with a beaufiful head of
s. Verges, c. s.
THE publisher thinks it a mark of refpeil, due to a
liberal and enlightened public, to inform them that
this is the Poem for tiie publilhing of which he has been
v twice dragged from his house, and is now laboring under
; a vexatious profecuticn. He is conscious that the piece
contains nothing either criminal or offenfive, unlets ori
ginal wit, decorated in elegant language, ba criminal or
dtfgufting to the prevalent talfe ; and, as he trusts that
neither of these is the cafe, he fubniits the work to th e
_ publit with a full assurance of its meeting with a favora
■ ble reception. _
He would beg his prosecutors to call to mind (it they
have ever read it) the following apologue to a well known
romancc—" A .young painter, indulging a vein of plea
santry, sketched a kind of Gonwrfatitn Piece, rtfpc&ing a
C " bear, :.n owl,' a monkey, and ah ass; and to renJef it
y ' more flriking, humouroui, and moral, dilKngiKffied eve
ry figure by some emblem of human life. Bruin was
J exhibited in the garb and attitude of an old,
', drunken soldier ; the owl perched upon the handle o£ a
" co ffce-pot, with fpedtacles on his nose, seemed to contem
plate a newfpapcr; and the ass ornamented with a huge
tye-wig (which, however, could not conceal his long
ears) fat for his pi<slure to the monkey, who appeared
with the implements of painting. This 'whimfcal group
afforded some mirth, and met with general approbation,
until some mischievous wag hinted thfc whole was a lam
poon upon an old officer, a physician, and a member of
Parliament; an insinuation which was no feoner circulat
ed ed, than these people Vgan to be alarmed, and evun to
ay f a n C y themselves fignified by the several figures in the
y- piece. Ihe furious greup fell upon the'painter, who de
lr" clarcd that he had 110 design to give offence, or to cha
raileri?s particular pei Tons. Thev affirmed, th; rrfetnhlanct
bc vat too palpable to be overtooicd, —and their clamours being
l<;t overheard by the public, the Captain was a bear, the
Dofior an ass, and the Senator an owl, to their dying
day." I?.a similar fate should attond the persons who
will infill upon being the members of this groui, the
public will do the publisher. the justice to remember that
it is no fault of his.
August 27. dtf
»=, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
Versus NED CATON, a NEGRO MAN.
" \ \ THO was committed to the jail of Dauphin county,o
VV his confefSon of having robbed the w g? n of a
certain ]<Shn Grace, Coppersmith and Tinman, belonging
to Philadelphia, of Tin, Copper and Pewter ware. Spoons,
Knives and Forks, some of which was found on the said
; also, was found on him, a Morocco Leather Pocket
Book, in which is wrote the nami WILLI AM WESTON s
it torftains sundry papers, which corroborate the f'jfp cion of
the book having been stolen ; amongst which areSu Lotte
ry Tickets, one in the Canal Lottery in CharJejton, one in
Harvard College, one in the Federal City, two in the Penn-*
jft, fylvania Canal, insured, and one in Patterfon Lottery, New
,i« Terfev, all in the poffeffien of
J 5 ' ALEX. BERRYHILL.
Uy Hamfburgh, August »?th, 179" co 3
™ TO BE SOLD,
the At No. 128, North Second-Street, and by several of
) u . the Apothecaries in this City.
of- TRANSFERS of the right to remove pains and inflamms.
I Hons from thfc human body, asfecured to Dr.fELISHA
PERKINS, by patent, with iriftrumentsand directions ne
ceflary for th praHice. This mode of treatment is particu-
M- ) ar ]y ufeful in relieving pains in tne head, face, teeth, brcall,
li GJe, stomach, hack, ineumatifms, recent gouts, Sec. itc.
n " Notwithftaijdmg the utility of this piaQicc, it it not pre
)nc fumed but there are cases in which thia and every other
1h- temedy may fotnetimcs fail.
>nd i une ,8, «aw
ant *
A Hand some, well-broke
SADDLE HORSE,
For Sale, enquire at the s«neftogo Stable's, the owatt
having no use for hiw.
, Aug. %% m&fawIf
WANTED,
1 A STORE and Cellar or Comptilig house and' Cellar.
-Z"a. for the Wholesale and Dry Good business. iir. tjuire
at No. I 29 ArcK-ftreet.
Fc/r Sal: at the above place, \
joo Boxes Window Glass, 8 by 10, 7 by 9, &c. .
500 Cream Cheeses in the best order, imported from
\ Holland, and entitled to drawback. Enquire of 1
Peter Borger,
Aug. 16 %
aawsyr I '
_ No - '39-.
Dijtrift of Pennjyfaania to tvit <
BE it remembered that on the nineteenth Day of July <
in the twenty-firll Year of the Independence of the United ,
States of Ameiica Thomas Dobfon of the said Diftridt
hath deposited in this Office the Title of a Book the Right
whereof he claims as Proprietor in the words following '
to wit ». <
" Sele&ae c veteriTeftamento Hiftoriae or fele<st Pafla- <
<c ges from the old-Testament. To which is added an (
alphabetical Vocabulary or Dictionary of the words
,c contained in this Book wherein the Primitives of com
" pound and derivative words are minutely traced and 1
" the Irregularities of anomalous Nouns and Verbs are 1
l< particularly mentioned—For the use of those who aie
entering on the Study of theGreck and Latin Languages. ,
" Quo citius, quo facilius, eo melius.
By James Hardie A. M. Teacher of the Greek and '
" Latin Languages"— 4
in conformity to the a6t of the CoMgrefs of th<? United
States intituled, "An A<st for thje Encouragement of
Learning by securing the Copies of Maps Chart* and <
Books to the Authors and Proprietors ©f such Copies
• during the times therein mentioned.
Samuel Caldwell, Clk. Dift. Pennfylv.
No. 140.
Diflrifl of Pennflvania to wit
BE it rememb.red that or "the 19th day of July in the
twenty-firft ycar of the Independence of the United States
®f America, Tnomas Dobfon of the laiddiftriit hath de- *
■pofitcd in this office the title of a Book the right whereof t
he claims as proprietor in the words following to wit >
" Unitarianifm explained and defended in a discourse
•' delivered ii the church of the Univerfalifts at Fhiladel
" P h ,' a 1 79 6 - B y Joieph Priestley, L.L. D. F. R. S. &c. '
" That they might know thee the only true God and 1
" Jesus Christ whom thou haft sent. John XVIJ. 3. 1
so us there is but one God the Father of whem are c
«' all things. 1 Cor. VIII. 6. t
By evil report and good report as deceivers and yet
V true ; . I Cor. VI. 8.
in conformity to the a& of the Congress of the United 0
States intituled "An AA for the encouragement of learn- t
ing by securing the copies of maps charts and books to v
the authors and proprietors of such copies during the *,
tunes therein mentioned."
Samuel Caldwell, Clk. Dift. Pennfylvi
No. 141. •<
DiftriH of Pennsylvania to wit *'
BE it remembered that on the 19th Day of July in the
the twenty-firft of the independence of the United
States of America Thomas Dobfon of the said diftrift t'
hath deposited in this office th« title of a Book the right ,i
■whereof he claims as proprietor in the words following
t« wit 6 g
" Discourses relating to the evidences of revealed rcli- fl
' dfl'vered in the church of the Univ-erfaliih at ' "
Philadelphia 1796 and published at the requsft of ma- ti
'"7 °f the hearers. By Joseph.Priestley L. L. D. F. R. n ,
S. _&c. &c.
„" Se re ady always to give an answer to every man that ™
aiketh you a reason of the hope that is in you. S
" » Pet.lß*. 15." c<
in conformity to the aft of the Congress of the United p.
States inutuled «An Ad for the encouragement of Q
learning by securing the copies of maps charts and books q
to the authors and proprietors of such copies during the ,
tnVies therein mentioned • th
Samnel Caldwell, Clk. Dift. Pennfylv. fa
- — pi
No. 144. ca
Di/lrifi of Pennsylvania to wit w
BE it remembered that on the nineteenth day of Tuly ar
in the twenty-firft year of the Independence of the United n c
States ef America Thomas Dobfon of the said diftriS
hath deposited in this office the title of a Book the right
whereof he claims as proprietor in the words following '*
tow.t , s <j t
■. « Corfiderations on thedodrine bf Phlogiston and the Y
«4ecompofition of Water—By Jofe ? h Priestley, L. L. X
" !>• &c &c.
" Qualem cemmendes etiam atque etiam afpice." tn
. " Horace." ' rl
in con.ermity to ad of the Congress of the United m '
States intituled " An A eft for the encouragement of ot!
learning by securing the copies of Maps Charts and Books br,
to the authors and proprietors of such Copies during the .1
times ther in mentioned " ,n:
Samuel Caldwell, Clk. Dill. Pannfylv. ° n
rot
F 0 R SA L E, p=
A very Valuable Estate, ha
CALLED TW- ITT ENH AM, situate in the tta
townlhip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware, n -,
y 1-4 miles from Phiiad lphia, and half a mile from the £
new M efterr road: containing i -)o acres of excellent land,
4.! ot which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood- tfu
land and the reft arable of the firft quality. There are JOl
on the premifesagood two story brick honre, with 4 rooms of
on a floor, awl cellars under the whole, with a pump-well TV
of excellent water in front} a large frame barn, ftablcs, 0
and other convenient buildings; a smoke-house and stone, S P
fpring-houle; two good apple orchards, and one of peach- nu l
es " .„ olds are allul c| over, except those immediately wa
Tinder tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly cot
vement for grazing. mc
The situation is pleafantandhealthy, ami from the hieh v
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is v«ry suitable for a gentleman's
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the edate of Jacob Harman.
deceased, and offered for faie by
Mordecai Lewis,
Ofl. 9. CO.] Surviving Executor.
TO BE SOLD, crii
That Neat and Convenient Housed i u<^
"fTTHEREIN the fnbfcriber now lives. There are foui wai
V V rooms on a floor : the house is ttf o ftorie„ inft
with a good garret above : under tJii whok i, an exce?l- the
ent cellar with a dry well, in -which is a convenient an j
framed chamber for preftrvmg meat, butter, &<. in warm •
weather. Attached to the house is a Stable for three tlor
horses, hay-los , granary, and cariiage-houfc, a wood- j ull
ya-d pavc»! with stone, and a garden with foil of a fine ! Sev
quality. An mdifputable title will be made to the pur. th*
chafer. For farther particulars a rp ly to the fubferiber 1B ! .
Princeton, or. in her abfenee to V homas D. Johnlon Ela
or the rev. Samuel S. Smith. ' he <
ANN WITHERSPOON. to
Princeton, Aug 44. aawtO whi
INFORMATION I c"'
Pfeßt HtSS!" " ' bC """WTO*! W
A'o. 147 Cbefnutf.reet, IQ V.
between Fourth and Filth ftrcets. Also, where Tickets!
may yet be had. Sept. t. eo '•Sni
0- The Sixtwth and Seventeenth Say* drawing it
arrived. 1 . _ :liy.
H ar> From the Wt stern Star.
t uire Mr. Andrews,
THE following Certificate fell into my hands
by accident. But as it purports to be intended for
public benefit, I think the author of it can have no
rom objection to its being publilhed'in the Star. You
are thciefore requeued to publidi it, and you will
' oblige Yours, Candidus.
WII.LIAMSTOWV,- August 22, 1796.
" This eertifies that in frequent c#nverfations
" with the Hon. Thompson J. Skinner, Esq. at the
July « time when Congress were deliberating about ma
nted „ jjj n g appropriations for carrying into effeiS our
" Treaty with Great-Britain, he fully and repelt
ving " edly expressed his sentiments to me, and to
" others in my hearing, in favour of making the
affa- ii neceflary appropriations, and pafltng the necef
ord" " far y awt or l^at purpose.
:om . " I'his I freily certify, an an aft of Judice due
and " from me, and not with any view to interfere in
are «< the approaching ele&ion of a member of Con
-1 aie 11 g re f s from this diftrift any further than certifying
'g cs - it t |)i s f (that the Freemen may on good infor
an(j " mation aft their own" independent sentiments)
" may be so confideied. Ebenszer Fitch,
' te£ i Pre/ident of William College."
tof u 1 hereby certify that the above is a true Copy
p" es "of the original, fubferibed by Mr. 1 itch, and
" which is in my pofieffion,
William Walker."
SPRINGFIELD, Aug*ft 30.
From Gorrefpondenti.
.'.J " WHAT think ye of the treety now?" This
de- question was asked by a writer ir» the Gazette of
reof the United States, and it seems to have roused the
wrath of the Aurora. A paragraphift in the latter,
def W '" 001 a " ow , * iat we are to { h'"k it a very great
matter to have the ports, because, (and is not this
and * vei 7 foolfh reason) we ought to have had them
;. long ago; TJiis argument, if it may be called ar
are gument, Ihews that we ought never to have had '
'• them at all. 1
yet If the war party had ruled the road, we should 1
ted not ave them. They would have had no :
rn- treaty, how then could we have gained them ? By '
;to They said so, ani swore to it. According !
tne to their own story, therefore, (and its strange to '
find any fact accsiding to their story) we owe the 1
poflVflion of the pofis to the treaty.' This makes j
it proper to'pm the question, again and again, Ja- 1
toi'tns, -what think ye of the treaty now ? " 1
the The writer in the Aurora observes, by the by, 1
ted 'hat the British are guilty of of the trea- v
-i(st ty, because they held the polls SIX weeks after '
? ht the tirft of June, when they oughj to have been 1
' ng g l<ren up according to the treaty. Son of. confef- '
sli- 'here we catch you. The Aurora has filled
at mote than an hlindred columns to prove that the
na- treaty was not binding on our government, at lcaft 1
R - not upon the representative branch of it, 'till it l
was fashioned by Mr. Gallatin, Ms. Findley, Mr. f
Swanwick, and all other foreign patriots, who have *
come over to teach us what liberty is, and how to 1
:ed pronounce our mother tongue. The name of 1
>ks Get "S e Wafll ' n g ton . W4tl » the seal of the United °
h« was a bauble that made the instrument nti
thei one thing nor the other, 'till the House had n
said it would do. Be it so, for a moment—Then h
_ pray, Mr. Inconsistency, was the treaty broken be- a
t cause it was Hot fulfilled before it was made ? It t>
was voted in the House on the 30th of April to
ily appropriate money to carry it into effect. It did l '
not Leeome a law, and appear in our gazettes for b
weeks after. Then to fend notice to Detroit wodld v
"g ,a k. e evera ' wc fk'. Then to fettle the manner of n
delivering of the polls would consume more time, p
et t ' l,s 18 a the treaty by the British ! it
L - »his accusation proves clearly that the new doc- »
trine of Mr. Gallatin, refpefting a ft are of the r<
treaty power for the representative branch, is no h
sd more believed in by one party than the other ; si
of otherwise they would not charge the British with
breaking the treaty, while it was their own song ft
that it was nothing, a mere dead letter, depending m
on their voice to call it into life. But who looks fc
_ for consistency from the anarchists. It is like ex- te
pe&ing giapes from th»rns, or figs from thirties.
People addicted to a certain pradtice, should te
have good memories. When a law of Congress to
ie stands in the way of a treaty, said the Gallatin
■ e ' P ar, y> il is necefTary that it should be repealed by fit
d> Congress, otherwjfe the treaty cannot operate. So bi
1- they said and lung, and so to.their disgrace fay the
re Journals of the House. Who believed one word gr
il a " ,his • Sure 'y n( * the Gallatin squadron ex
s, . ver y ™ en who vote(l in this way, voted for the th
e! treaty, although that treaty direAly an- da
j. nuls a law, and although Mr. Goodhue explicitly ve
y warned them of their inconsistency. After this, it ole
;e will be an up-hill draught to maintain that certain ty
men were sincere and acted from principle. No th
h doubt their constituents will stick a pin there. Un
WHITESTOWN, August 16. Ih,
On the evening of the jyth inft. a murder was sr
' C °Tn te a, " thC h ° ufe ° f J° hn Wem P' c - O- so.
neida Castle : an Indian ofthat tribe well known by Ca
the name ot Saucy Nick, is upon very good grounds du
• lu PP°'« d be the perpetrator of this greatest of
,nfor ™ atlon of the murder, upon oath,
Judge VVhtte, without one hours delay, issued his the
I "T*" 1 . for the L a PP of the murderer ; with abl
th h rVV ° 't0 rnake a Ppl«:atio n to me
- the chiefs of the nation, and demand the offender; 100
1 ami we are hapyy in the information, that the na- wii
. '"i vef y teldll y delivered over the accuftd t» the fca
* v ftatC ' 10 be P Unifhcd cur l aws Z
-1 fhtUn Th' " a r° n accoxll P anied the officer to yo.
'' Slhi' * f ? murdered ' wa » a white man, Eg
j and th. .nformahon rece.ved, j«ftifi« a belief h ' ■ %
he was from some part of Long lfl aiK i, on hi "
to the nuhtary tra a, to explore a lot of 171 th
wh,ch he acquired by hi, ferv.ces a, a soldier in the da
revolu.ion-war—his name ia supposed to be He h
>. f» . Mr. Ond,rd.„k rf Un s ' £
! *r. "i P»ift ,t£l 'i-s
Bail
\ J
t
fm . From the Fa&mir's WfEKtV Museum.
" And he fa'td unto vie—what feefl thou ?—
in j s And I said A basket or summer fruit."
I for EN every annual revolution there are certain pe
eno riods, at which men indulge ideas ot afTociation.
sou whence they may derive, either the pleasant or the
will profitable. Thtts, the gradual approach of cheerful
spring, the youth of the year, naturally induces us
to speculate upon the youth of hutnan life ; The
•' naked beughs an'd droppingleaf' of tjhe autumnal tree
l °? S remii'.d us of mortal decay. On the (irft of Janua- I
ry, we pander on the pad, and project tor the su
m tuie :by thecortimand of custom, we i >te thean-
T niverfary of oirr birth, and, by the command of the
(o law, times te ivcep and to laugh weobfeive with reli- 1
the g' ous folejtinities.
V These periodical habits are of peculiar utility,
and deserve to be studiously cherished. 1
j u „ ferious/eflcftion, and communion with one s lelf.
. They fugged at lea to, plans of reformation. "In
0H castle building," as a sagacious philosopher has re- ]
* marked, "no man is a villain." Though our in- \
f or . tended gooddeeds terminate as they begsn.in reverie, (
lts) dill it is better for our thoughts merely to hover f
round the temple of vinue, than to be utterly r
,' f „ stagnant. Among the forcible arguments ingeni f
jpy oufly urged, by the pious advocate for theobferv- /
jn j ance of the sacred day, that is not the lead im- t
preflive, which proves that by going mechanically
> to church we (hall, at length, go religiously theie. t
For these and other reasons, a sermon on the sea- j
sons may be ufeful. Whatever iccalls man from (
low cares v to extended views, whatever rouzts in- tl
sensibility, andexcitesto gratitude, and to love of
u s nature ii surely meritorious. The Lay Preacher, J
t] l( . fmce the commencement of his weekly labors, has
:er fcen, and has attempted to moralize the natural ope- g
eat ' rations of January, of May, and of June. The be- b
his ginning and middle of a favored year have palfed
em in review before him ; but the rich maturity re- b
ar _ mains to be considered, and extolled. Though e ,
, a d curious aud thediflipated of our cities boast of their
expensive exhibitions; though, with rapture, they h;
j],j gather round the tutored quadrupeds of Lawlson, h;
no and of Rickets, still there are "Jights," easily and
gy cheaply to be seen, which are ineomparably more
„g amusing and gorgeous. To the beauteous show <vi
t 0 of the season, men and brethren, you are invited, C
not by the advertifemeht of an adventurer, not by a .'I
tea juggler's devices, but by the voice of natHre. Her il
f a . tickets are inscribed on the green leaf, and the corn
blade, and her spacious amphitheatre is open to you lil
hy t without a fee. All may now, discern in reality, tb
ca . what the prophet saw, in the obfeurity of a vifiou th
tcr " A lajlct ef summer fruit," ripe and plenteous,
. en teilifying the»goodnefs of the year, and crowning it E
' e f. with gladness. ve
led Spring and Summer are periods of expe&ation tli
he The farmer beholds the com fall into the boforo of B
aft the ground, and the young shoots rife, but all is
it uncertainty, till the produce is ga hered into the
Ir. garner. Many an anxious look is cast up to the
ive varying sky, left the farmer and latter rain should
to too scantily, or too copioiifly descend, left the fun he
of (hould too fiercely glow, or mildewing vapours float, ve
ed on vegetation. But, when the grass is dried and ou
ti- secured, when the mellow fruit of the orchards is Ft
ad melting into his casks, and the harvejl moon lights is
O, his reaper to the lad wheat sheas, then is folieitude to
e- appeased, and he, exultingly, exclaims " i have si- tri
It milled."
to The present, is the very period, in which harvest, tai
id that " consummation" so " devoutly to be wished" in
1)r by every husbandman, takes Of those Di- qu
Id vines, who use themselves to preach oecafional fer- th(
of mons, 1 perceive it is the pradticc, to paint, and to be
e. prsife the benefits of ahtf particular year, in which ms
,i its eulogium is composed. But, although of the
c. numerous good days which happy Americans have
i e reckoned, those, which conjpofe the current year
,o have (hone among the fai.eft, yet, it is not the de- in £
• j sign of this discourse to speak only of the fruit baf- kcl
h of the present.season. Our basket, are always an,
,g full ours are those regular alterations of heat and inh
g moisture which beget plenty to the husbandman, the
» for we have " a south land," and « springs of wa- pa,
t- tei., we have the « upper and the netherjprings." tioi
At *" t,m «> America seems a priviledged quar- ed
d ter of the globe " Fruit" ever abounding, fubjeft col
e s e " Wan< l ulllt y m "k S our hap- to ,
n pydiftina.on. I hefe toprcks being slightly con ket
y fidered, the patience of the reader /hall be relieved the
o by the close of the fermoft.
e feiitorical volumes, or system of geo- o'th
d graphy we peruse, we find that mod countries are out
- exposed either to baleful vicissitudes of climate or ni,,
e the capricious violence of tempest, drought or inun- the
i- dation. In the hallowed voW, almost every hca
y v erse, allusive to the naturr.l history of Palestine, i n tan ,
t old time, contains lomer#morial of the irregular!. Sat
II h°' Cafona - A g rfeab ly to modern traveller,, two
0 the inhabitants of many parts of the Ealf, flill f mar , cau .
under the scourge of the elements. In Syria Tain Z
is witnefTed, tor months, and who has not heard of I
the torching sands of Arabia I The Nile the «1 „
■jf f «'tilizer of Epypt, like an ove, f on d parent
f " J * nd faddev: at their long May " °
' . w,; ru "ey regions of happier temperature still
. he journals of their weather ma ke extreme'var,- !
1 ablenefs, and, m many years, their '"baskets offum- Mr
' mer fruit are not high oiled We r i , .
answer, like him i The rains do nL A f j "° aco
the floods come iff such torrents as to'd qU '"
Plain, The gieen corn i« not b'unit hy venical fm»
beams, nor overthrown by a mighty wind The fh "
WdsreguMy y.elcl meat j and, in'our Samaria T
there „no gate, where the ponrefs isfamine , T
Wnen the harveft,of America are ripe for th,
Gckle, the i, completely ours, without h Z' *
duftion. According to Brvbonk, a lazr l or d'
hog eats, what the flavi(h Sicilian n M r a n, u r ls b
derate takes of a Federal Government wring not a
penny from the farmer. Lolling luxury is exciivd
tor its eoach, bul the plough ;,nd the cart go free.
To close the entimeratHi > of our blessings, we
i pe- pluck out full ears, and we * ; uhem in fafety. In
iog, France, the "'dogs of war," have ( trampied the
the vines of Champagne, and weeping Flanders lias ex
rrful changed the tilled for the " tented field." But
sus thanks to our Supreme Guardian—thanks to Wa
rhe shington, and the "peacemakers," we behold the
tree " baskets," the orchards, the vales of " furamer
iua- fruit" and not a single pikt, not a distant gleam of
fu- horrid steel mars the view. Fortunate America,
un- like Israel of old, you " dwell in fafety alone," your
the " heavens drop down dew," and your " fountain
eli- is upon a land of corn."
The LAY PREACHER.
;, y» ===
From late London Papers.
1 What with disputes about Prizes taken on the
rc " High" Seas, and disputes between Men and their
in- Wives, business goes on fwisnmingly at Doctor's
ne > Common.). The encreafe in the lalt ,veri
,vcr fies the eld Proverb : " When a couple are newly
rr 'y married, the firlt month is honey-moon, or fmick
-H' smack ; the second, hither and thither ; the third,
~v" thwick thwack ; and the fourth, the Devil take them
' ra ~ that brought you and me together.
illy Patents.—Among all the Patents in this coun
:ic> try, nothing has more curioiity than a Sign board,
a - in the neighbourhood of Hackney, on which a
om Gentleman proclaims that he deals in Patent Ve«e
tables!
°f ' A ridiculous circumstance lately happened in St.
,cr » James's street. .As Mrs. Burton was crossing, (he
ttooped un !er the head of a coach-horse, the htin
pe- gry animal seized herSt:aw Bonnet, which he eat,
,e " before it could be rcfeued from his javys.
fed Mrs. Piozzi sojourns at a rural cottage in the
■e- beautiful Vale of where {he has just finifli
ke ,ed a Poem, eniitled, " The Sports of the Goats."
eir A certain Gentleman at his nnarii»£e thought he
ey had got a Lamb—but as Mungo fays, " ado44ie
n, has got a Tartar 1"
nd LITERARY .—PARIS,
ire A new Play, entitled, L' Jnterieur des Canutes Re
>w volutionaires, (the laterier of the Revolutionary
d, Committees) was given on the 16th inft. at the
' a .Theatre de la Cite, and received with the mod cn
er thufiallicc btirfts of applause.
rn Four large volumes in Bvo. will shortly be pub
au liftied, which corttain the crimes committed under
y, the four different Legislatures, and efpeciaily under
an the reign of the Convention.
is, Antonelle, Publicola, Poultier,.j»nd all the other
it Editors of the Terrorfft Journals, continue to in-!.; 1
veigh against the Diiedtory, the Members of which
n they state to be man Iters. They (pare none but
of Barras.
is *
INSPRUCK, June 5.
le Yefterda" the following notice wa£ publilhed :
Id " The government informs the public, that the
in head quarters of the Imperial army ate now at Ro
t, veredojand that in confrquence every attention
id ought to be (hewn to that quarter, and towards the
is Frontiers of Tyrol, which join Italy ; and that it
ts is necessary to fend a3 irnrch provisions as poflible
Je to them. The imperial troops still cover t>ic coun
i- tries of Tyrol, and as yet the enemy lias net ap
peared on the frontiers ; therefore the brave and
t, faithful Tyrolian troops ought to hold themlelves
" in readineU to march,-if should re
i- quire it. It is also efi'ential riot to lose light of
r- the Vintfehgan, and the Oberinthal. Arms will
0 be distributed as soon as ttyey arrive, according as it
h may be judged molt convenient.
le
' e LONDON, June 27.
r, We on Saturday mentioned, that on that mern
; ■ ing, two old houses in Houghton ftieet, Clare mar-
C- ket, occupied by several poor famines, fell down,
s and involved in their ruins the major part of their
d inhabitants. About four o'clock in the morning,
1, the watchman was alarmed by the falling of fevetal
1- panes of glass ffom the windows, and, on observa
tion, discovered chasms in both houses* He alarm
- ed the tenants of each ; but, through fotne unac
-1 countable apathy, they could not be prevailed upen
- to move. The landlord, a but'erman in the mar
ket, was applied to, who, in vain, warned them of
1 their danger. About half part eight , both houses
fell ; in one there were sixteen perlons, three in the
other : seven were, in the course of the day, diig
; out dead, Conic of them children, fuffocated, and
r nine aiive, but mifeiably bruised. A woman of
■ the name ps Moore, nearly 70 years of age, was
' heard in some of the lower parts crying (or affif
* ,anc e : her body was not found till about eight oil
- Saturday night, when life had left it. There are
1 two still among the rubbish, which the people are
cautious in removing, dreading they ftiall be buticd
by the fall of the adjoining houses.
In the evening while some workmen were era
ployed in propping the adjoining houses, part of
the wall fell in, and threw down the ladders upon
which they were Itanding. The men were so much
ruilcd by the fall* that they were carried to the
riofpital, in a dangerous state.
July 9.
Mr. WHITBREAD'S WILL.
m r f T c 71 f ? llowi "g ars some of the principal heads of
Mr. Whitbread's will, and of those who are bene
fited by it—
To his fan, Samuel Whitbread, Esq. he hai
equedthed the whole of his freehold estates, toge
t ier with the brewery concern;, except a part t*
dau the wife of Mr. Grey, which was se
cured toher in her marriage iettlement. To his
1 i n fxn'- Jam " Co, don, Esq. to his nephews,
Jacob Whitbread and John Wingate Jennings, EC
quites, he has bequeathed 50001. each ; also 100001.
oeing the amount of tfuee bonds given by Lord
John, his foh-in-law, to whom he left 1000 L
the amount of another bond, also given by him.
1 1 ° Vf: ee hcad ciaks > Mr - Sangiter, Mr. Yel
lowly and Mr. Green, he has left 5001. each, who
arc ajltruftees for the management of the brawery.
.-°, " arm an, his, private clerk, cool. To
»s u. er 100!. apd toe»ery servant throughout lis
concerns, including clerks, domtllics, draymen, and
everj other he hag left a token of tit
\ 'V
/ _ ■ -.< ~~.• '
regard, besides various sums from 1001. to iol. in
Ai.ijlimes; to old fcrvams, and widows of ljtvß9t|.
He has aifo made a clause in his will, which sets
forth, tnai ihouU his clerks, Mr. Gieen, Mr. Yel
lowly, and Mr. Sangfter, at any time be desirous
ot purc.ialing a share in the brewery concerns, his
ion than accede to the proposal, and give them cre
dit for any sum they may want for that purpose, on
their owrti bonds, not exceeding foo,cool.
1 o the different hospitals in the metropolis and
t elsewhere, he kas bequeathed upwards of 15,000!.
among which are St. Bartholomews, Bethlem, Ly
ing-in, St. George's, Small-Pox and St. Luke's-
To two charitable schools (a boy's and girl's) 5001.
e/ich, in the parish of St. Luke ; alio to the re
paying ot th* gaol at Bedford 3001. and towards
the buildiag of an infirmary Car the above place
40001. and towaids the maintenance of it 40001.
* The many legacies left to old acquaintances, friends,
rectors, curatcs'and tenants, and distant relations,
are incredible.
Moody, the a£tor, went down to the late Staf- ;
ford election, and there performed his part ancom.
monly well, and was well paid for it. He was afk
cd whether he had a note ? " No,but I have a voice,"
was his reply, " and if I do not receive 400 hard
•anted guineas before jto-morrow morning, 1 will
make such a speech on the Hustings as will make
iome folks ltare!"—He reeeived the money, and'
mum became the order of the day.
btveral thousand cwt. of damaged ricc were fold
by the Eaft-lndia Company, at eighteen pence per
cwt. it answers excellently well for feeding poultry,
pigs, &c.
1
!
• Philadelphia,
1
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 17516. ,
<
By Capt. R. Mease, of the schooner .Lively, 15 days '
from Cape-Frsncois, we learn, that some days previ- 1
eufly-to hia fill. Ujt. the,jiniua.had taken polleiiion of
Monte Chrillo, by express invitation from the Spani- ,
aids, who sent to the Mole for fhs; purpose : This step, ,
however, was not deemed of any consequence at the 1
Cape, and certainly was very imprudent in the Spa- 1
niards, as by treaty their whole pofleffions are ceded '
to the $rench, in St. Domingo j and those concerned 1
in this affair will no doubt be made to fufl'er for their 1
temerity and folly. Since the sanitation of Etienne I
and Barraftall, two noted chiefs of the blacks, by the |
order of government, the negroes have burned l'eve- .
ral plantations near Port-de-Paix : 400 men from that ,
place, under Gen. Pageot, marched against them and '
forctd them to retreat to the mountains and ravines, '
where it was impofiibie for white men to follow them. '
jpj Perroud, one of the former-adminiftrators of Port-de-
Paix, is appointed minilter plenipotentiary from the
republic to the leeward neutral islands. and one Tfci
beaux is appointed in his place. Buftnefs of every
kind very dull at the Cape.
On his pafiage home, Capt. M. saw a (loop of war
on lhore upon the Weft Caicos, and supposed her to be
the La Serieufe French corvette of 20 eighteen
pounders, that failed from the Cape the day before—
The violence of the gale-which blew at the time, pre
vented him from rendering any assistance. In lat. 3?,
30, long. 7j, saw three frigates standing to the S. W.
which he supposed to be > Barney's division.
[Am. 1). Adv-2
From the COURIER. FRANC A IS.
A courier dispatched from Port San-Domingo reach
ed Cape-Francois on the 18th August, and brought in
telligence, thata French corvette just arrived at Sari- f
Domingo had announced, that the fleet of Don Sola- ]
110, which, united with'that of Richery is composed
of jalhipsof the line, may momently be expe<3ed,'
the corvette having been only a few days a head of the
fleet. J
The island of Dominica has been taken by Victor *
Hugues from the Englilh. j
_ Tortola, one of the Virgin Islands, has also been ta
ken, and 60 Englilh merchantmen were captured there t
by the Republicans.—The island is entirely ruined.
The Bntifli have almost entirely Lucia, f
where they occupy only Morne Fortune from which I
they will also soon be driven. *
v
Tranjlatidfor the Gazette of the United States, g
Sketches of the Character of Buonaparte,
From a late Paris Paper.
June 3.
Buonarparte is of the age' of 27; By birth a
Corfican—but educated in 1 France. He early en- 1
tered into the artillery lchool, in which his industry v
. and application soon procured him the rank of cap- £
;/ tain. Hisafpiring foul delighted no less intheftudy 1
, of Hißory than of Mathematics and Tactics. He
is of a small Itature 3nd very thin-—his countenance 1
pale—but bold and warlike. He keeps his fang f
froid amidst the greatest dangers, and feeirs to be
entirely unacquainted with what is called fear.
"f hp' he be involved in fituatioi\s ever so trying and °
intiicate, it is not his nature to despair of success in
his enterprizes. He fsems to be in his element when
contending against obstacles and difficulties. Like
Jourdan and Pichegru, when in large circles, he is
serious and (ilent. In social circles he will enter in
to couyerfuion freely, and express himlelf wrth per
spicuity and precision. Literary, philosophical, fc
- and political conventions, pofkfs equal allurements b
for him. In a narrow, diminutive bad v, he bar- la
bouis an intrepid foul, a noble feeling heart, and a v e
mind exquilitely.cultivated. He is a dutiful son, a h<
warm friend, a' tender husband, and of course, a H
good citizen. *
— ni
| VIENNA, June 1. T
BEAULIEU. ex
Thi? most deferying o! Netherlander was born in be
the small town of Jodoigne, in the Dgtchy of Bra- en
so
He commenced his career by serving in the German ' 1
regiment of infantry, Bayrmth, which was Rationed rC
for a long time in the Netherlands, and chiefly at Lux-
' E«
Whsn in the year 1757, during the Prussian war, In
*jie flaff of the army was eltabliihed in favor of in
Tcld Marlha'l Count Daun, Bcaulieu, as an engineer rni
of acknowledged merit, was admitted ; and his signal {■„,
services ill that quality procured }jj)m the cross of the i
iriilitar'y order of Theresa. The peace of Hubert P
l concluded in 1763, lit attended theFftld Mar- an '
thai to Vienna m quality of aid-de-camp, and made ■«
at this time those fine improvements the garden and
tfanai -or the cattle of Some years after Sh
,in this he was, on account of infirmity, permitted to
its repose, and was appointed Commandant of the city of
sets ' n Brabant, with the rank of a Colonel.—
r el- ' disturbances in Belgium having broken out, he
3US mftantl y °f ereJ s services again ; when.ha was ap
his p . omt . ed General of the small army
then in those parts. In this capacity the eminent fer
re- vices he rendered are well known, as also those lir.ee
on against the French.
Beaalieu now upwards ef 70 years of age, is well
md n^ ai^e > thin, and of a very brown complexion, with
oi. piercing looks, which a r e heightened hv his black hair. 1
He is a widower, and has had two children only. Am 1
y only and promiling son, a captain in the corps ofchaf- I
■ • !eur;, was fhbt by the Belgium malcontents. This loss
01. almost bereft the old man of his reason. His daughter 4
re- he gave in marriage to the Baron de Maelcamo, son
rds of an Imperial major-general, and a netherlander, on
Ice c °naition of!his adopting the name of Beiulieu. He is
ol no « r a captain in his Walloon regiment, and his second
aid-de-namp. ;
; PARIS, June 3.
Jourdan's army confifls of uo,ooo men, and his van- f
ar- guard of 20,000 grenadiers,
m- — .
J; BY THIS .DAY'S MAIL.
'ill PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) August 27.
ke The neccflity of a.Consul being appointed by the
ndi authority of the U. States, to reside at Dema- '
rara, will clearly appear, we think, by the fol
lld lowing copy of an original certificate delivered J
>er to a gentleman, residing there for publication,
-y, WE the fubferibers, citizens of the Q. States of *
America, do certify by these presents, the necessity
of having a person in the colony of Demarara (to C
- reside there) in the capacity of Consul from the 5
Lnited States of America ; to aflift with his good
advice those captains and traders that vifitthe place .
for the purpose of aifpofing of their cargoes ; and
as we have (from the time of our residing in this
colony) experienced great difficulty, for want of '
lys sdvice and not understanding the languages, have
vi- met with great lofles, by felling our merchandize 1
ol to peqple unknown to us, by- which means some Of
m- us .have grpat sums of money outftatiding, and will
P. with difficulty be colleded ; that we have frequent
)a_ ly been in diftref. for want of a place to deposit
ed our dead, also to provide for sick seamen lodgings
ed convenient for them in their diltrerted situation. all 0
eir which taken into consideration, we do think it ab
ne folutely tieceffary, for the citizen, of the American f
■ c States, as well as for'the commfrce of this place, f
.at" * h 'l ex , cellenc y President of the American p
nd States (hould for this purpose appoint a capable per- i,
;s, ,0n to reside in this colony as a Contul from the U. si
m . States aforefaid "
le- Witness our hands, Demarara, 13th April 1706. a
he James Dryburgh, Charle(lon. f,
Samuel Lathrop, Boston. ' c
r y Richard S. Tibbits, Portsmouth N. H. t
ar Charles Nutter, Philadelphia. ' t
b e Samuel Low, Providence. j
e „ Jofiah Shackford, Portsmouth N. H. si
- JoUn Philadelphia.
e- William Lawrence, State of Nevr-York.
Thomas Reilly, Philadelphia, _ „
Samuel Leighton, Boston. v
Joftua Gage, BoSon.
Thomas Hunt, Philadelphia. t
h- NEW-YORK, Sepfember j. (
n- Mr. Monroe is undoubtedly recalled. A letter h
a- from Paris of [tine. 7, dates that '« the Executive v
Direflory of France havs not the most favorable h
opinion c.f the abilities, of the American minilter." i
he Ca . pt Seton of the bri S Nancy, arrived from
Jamaica, on Tnefday last between the Cap.es of the f
0( Chefapeak and the Capfs of the Delaware, saw
Admiral Murray's squadron with a frigate in tow. f
a- By late letters from Jamaica, we arc informed, t
re the Island is very extreme drought
continues, and nnmbeis of cattle die daily ; which f
: h ,heir effluvia, has caused a dangerous t
Epidemic, that affects the inhabitants in general, as
well as the new comers. The South fide of the g
Island does not furnilh any vegetables or plantains, f
S ' and corn is as high as a pistole per bushel.
E ' SAVANNAH, August 16.
* CITY COUNCIL,
Savannah, Aug. ij, 1706.
a A letter from the honorable John Edwards, in- 0
n _ tendant of the city of Charleston, on the 1 ith inft
ry was received, incloling a Resolution of the Medical 1
p. Society of that place, of the 10th inft. transmitted '
| y to the inteiidant and wardens of Charleston, (hew- a
le IB g that th e'e does not exist at present, in Oharlef- g
■e '°. n » ' 3 "7 contagious malignant fever known to the P
g laid ioeiety. |j
>e Whereupon Ordered, That the Resolution of c
_ Council, of the 3d inft.be rescinded, and that the
d communication between Charleston and Savannah,
„ tree and usinterrupted. o
n Extract from the Minutes, e '
;e THOMAS PITT, C. 0. si
is —' — w
i- CHARLESTON, Augufl 23.
r- We are informed that, in addition to the fub
1, fcnption for the relief of the unfortunate fufferers
s by the late fires, received ftom the citizens of Phi- F
■■ ladelphia, MefTrs. Jones & Clarke who lately remo
a ved there this city, have directed their
a here to present, on their behalf, the sum of FOUR
a HUNDRED DOLLARS. j 0
Ihe Intendant has also received from Mr. Da
niel Bowen, of the town of Boston, the sum of D '
being the proceeds of an T .
exhibition of his Mufpum, which he gave for the
1 benefit of the fufferers by the late fire. Mr. Bow- Fe
- en informs the intendant, that a fubfeription is on
foot in Boston for the purpose of affording further Be
; relief to the fnffecers. Al
' Died, on the morning of the 12th infts Mr. James Pa
Earle, portrait painter, a native of M.ifTachufetts.
, In the line of his profipflion he was excelled by none
in America, and by very few in Europe. His a- ~
miable disposition and agreeable manners, maice his
sudden death rauch lamented by all who had the
pleasure of his acquaintance. He has left a wife a '
and thfte children in London.
August 23. P cr
James Hardy, Efq» of Ne,w-York, lately sent ' a '^
S'x Barn'it of Flour, to hit friend in this city, as s
1 /
Id a contribution From him for the relief of the f.;fft;-
°f erj by fire here.
PCp C NORFOLK,, August 29.
jy By a pilot arrived in town this morning, we learn
•r- of the arrival of Captain Barney off our Capes,
ce with a 74, and two 74's cut down to 50 gun ships
-11 ~ Came a '°"£ l ' le fr° m , ' l -* southward,
in company with several American fchoouers, and
; r . ma de the Capes yesterday afternoon. There were
m tvvt> BtitJfli frigates and a brig to the eastward of
if- the Capes, who on them flood off shore
>fs N. E. and the French /hips crowded fail and flood
er s# er them j when last seen, they vvere but a (hort
uiftance apirt.
is fchodner from the Mole, 14 days, (now in the
id Roads) was boarded by one of the French frigates,
and an officer learnt iheir forte of
, men, which he said was 1600.
The above squadron arrived at the' Havanna"
n- from the Cape, on the 9th instant, and failed from
ihence on the nth. ' (Herald.) <
August 30.
By a pilot arrived here yesterday, we learn of i
the arrival of four French ships of War off the 1
le Cape—they camefrom the Southward in company -
with several American vessels.— There were two "
j British frigates and a brig to the eastward of the 1
I£ j ca P e > w ho on discovering them crowded all fail and
fleered N, E. and the French {hips gave chace
when last feeiS they were but a small distance apart. <
A schooner from Cape Nichola Mole, was board- -
a by one of the French frigates, and from an offi- •
cer learnt their force and number of men, which he
said was 1609.
''^ c a bove squadron it is supposed is commanded
j by Captain t Birney, and each frigate mounts 44
* s guns. C.iptain Barney failed from the Havanna
two days before Capl. Hatton, who arrived here
on Sunday, via Baltimore, on a cruize, to intercept
e the homeward bound Jamaica Fleeti
>f (Am. Gazette.) 1
t From the f Baltimore) Teiegrapre, r
it Friday, Sept. 2. 1
;s Yesterday arrived (hip Frederic* and Henrietta,
11 of Bremen, in nine weeks from Plymouth. '
)• Ihe pilot who brought up t¥e above (hip in- '
n forms, that on Sunday last, about 2 o'clock, P.. *
>, M. a French 64 gun ship and two frigates (fup
n posed to be Capt. Barney) (landing eaflvJard, and
-• immediately after saw llx British.ships of war within
'• fight of land to the eastward of Cape-Henry ; one
of the Bnt'ifh vessels, a frigate, being a consider 1
5. able distance io advance of the others, threw out 1
figrials and fired five guns, upon which the others
crowded all fail and followed her ; at this time
there was a calm, but a ftiff breeze springing up,
the British were wafted" within full hull fight of the r
French before the breezy overtook them ; in this
situation our informant loft fight of them. t
Saturday, Sept. 3. j
Arrived last evening, the brig Polly, Capt. Ham
mit, in 12 days from Aux Cayes. Theonlynews a
which Capt. Hammit brings, is, that a large bpily j
I reojeh troops had left -Aujt-Cayes, with an in - \
tention of proceeding against Jeremie. Capt. H. t
left a number of vessels from "this port at Aux- ;
Cayej, but could not recollect their names. On \
:r his passage was boarded by the Capt. of the Pre
e voyante, from on board of which vessel a man»who j
'e had been formerly impressed and ill treated, Was put t
into his vessel to be conveved to Baltimore. I
n Arrived, ship Union, Capt. Dafhield, 54 days
s from Lisbon.' . ,
v Aiij+uft 29, lat. 37, 38, long. 72, 30, spoke the 1
r. schooner Atlantic, Taylor, from New-York, bound
!, to Jamaica, 3 days out, all well. ,
it August 31, lat. 37, 40, N. long. 72, 30, W. I
>, s P oke the brig Peggy, Stoddart, from New-York,
is bound to St. Thomas', three days out, all well,
is Monday last, Capt. D. saw three French fri
e gates and a la/ge ship, which he took to be a prize,
>, (landing to the eastward.
From the Mart land Journal.
> September 3.
Mr. Thomas Jones, pilot, informs, that he saw
on Sunday last about 10 o'clock, A. M. three ]
Franch (hips of war, two of ihem were frigates,
;1 the other appeared to be a 64 or 74, at the fame
time fix British ships of war were in fight, two 64
.. and three frigates and a (loop, who ir^piediately
gave chace to the Frenchmen, the latter who ap- 1
e peared to be very much unconcerned until the Bri
tish vvere within a few miles of them, when they
£ croaded all fail and pushed.
e Some fuppcfe that the above French fhipt are
> those belonging to Commodore Barney, but from
other intelligence, it seems very improbable, how- £
ever should it be the Commodore, we have full 6on- 1
fidence in his manoeuvres, being persuaded thej I
will never catch him, unless paying very for it. C
STOLEN,
From the Compting-Hoiife cf RALPH MATHER,
No. la, Quarry-Jlreet, on Saturday or Sunday night
lajl, the following Notis, CSV.
Dollars.
John Nicholforr, to Moorhoufe, due Nov. ,
I, 1797, bearing interest, - - 5000
David Alliibr, to James Craraond, due in
JVitvrch last, - - - - 4075 A
J.*W. & W. Gibbs to Ralph Msthcr, at 70
days, August loth, ... jggj
Fefdinand Gourdon to Ralph Mather, at four '
months, Augyfl. 17th, - jg 4 __
Benjamin Chamber lain, at 60 days, August 6, 313 53
Aißeck to Jos. Bufwell, at 6 ninths, dated
May - - - - 180 64
Parker and Greaves to Ralph Mather, on de- . * n
mand' - 1 00
A bill by Harford, to Harford, not accepted, 1811. fter
ling^
Likewde, the Titles of some Estates, Mortgages, &c.
Whosoever brings the thief or thieves to justice, (hall
have a reward of twenty dollars.
As the papers in queflion can be of no use to any other £ r
person, the bills having been (lopped payment, request
the perpetrators may be searched after with all imagina- ph
ble care. -tit
Septtmber 6. 3t
PAMPHLETEERING.
rn WHENCE the source of all this triih ?
, s Itching palms—devoid of cash,
' If like gudgeons, folks will bite,
P s Every blockhead soon wiN write,
All the tribe of garretteers
id UJi pr fav'd their ears ;
re 'Scap'd from foreign Jails, (hail come)
0 f For the bre.adthey Uck'd at home,
re Nick'd by neck in hempen noose,
, 'I'raid to dance Without their ihoes—
Patriots these of such a frze,
rt Scarcely fan J c wixt earth and ikies,
Come three thousand miles to tell u s ,
ie George & Co. are scurvy fellowa !
Sj Take my word—you need not try 'em
jf They'll piUyour pocket if you kuy em.
ia " STOCK S.
n ___
Si* per Cent. - - .... . t ,/.
Three per Cent. . iof-j
H per Cent. - • none forfait. . . 14 /- laftnnce
, ji perCent 16<6
Deferred Six per Cent. ... . j,« ,0 7
e BANK United States, • . . . io pr. cent,
y Psnnfylyariia, - . . . \j
0 —— North. America, >- - - .46
e Insurance Comp. North-America, 40 per cent. adV,,
j PennCylvania, 5 per cent.
1 COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
• On London, it 30 days, per £.100 fterl. par.
at 60 days, par to 161 l-»
i- at 90 days, 161 a 164 j-z
e Amnerdaro, 60 days, per guilder', 4»
90 days, 40
+ GAZETTE OF TtW UNITED STATES MARINE LIST.
\ PHILADELPHIA, Scptvnkr 6.
ARRIVED.
Brig Gov. Brooke, Kuly, Cuba, 17 days.
Ihe Ship South Carolina, Capt. Garman, ar
rived at Charleiton on the 2 tft uit. iu 4 days from
the Capes of Delaware.
~ _ Arrivals at Cbarlejion—AuguJl 23.
Ship South Carolina, Garman, Philadelphia
- Schooner Peggy, Newton, Jeremie
Sloop Nancy, Dimond, Salem
Polly, Giadding, Bristol (Mail')
i . Ma! 7> Taber, New-York ,
n Discovery, Perry, Hifpaniola
Pert of Norfo/6 —AuguJl 30.
Brig Nancy Corran, Corran, " Cadiz
Schr. William, Linneh, Jamaica.
e NEWBURYPORT, Augufi 3,.
Saturday arrived brig Sally,- Janathan Young,
e matter, 9 weeks from Malaga'.
s July t, came through Gibraltar gut ; saw a fleet
of British ships cruiiing } spoke several and treated
politely.
July 12, lat. 36, 30, long. 38, was boarded by
s a French brig of war, belonging to Rochfort, who
Y P ut a Portuguese captain and two boys on board,
1- which theyliad taken two days before'. The cap
tain s (lame was Francis Dielt of a brig burthen
:• 200 tons, from St. Michael's bound to Madeira,
n with a load of corn.
July 24, lat. 39, jo, long. 40, spoke a Portu
-0 guefefnow from the Brazils bound to Lifban, out
it two months; put the abovementioned captain, and
his two boys on board.
s July 29, lat. 39, 10, long. 47, saw nine fail of
vellels standing to the eastward which appeared to
e be part of a Weft-India convoy.
d August 10, lat. 42, 50, long. 50, spoke a .Da
nijh bng from Norfolk bound to Gottenburg, and
. ship Hopewell from Charleiton bouncj to Liverpool,
,17 days out.
August 1 I lat. 42, 23, long. 37, 30, spoke the
bng 1 oily, ot Portland, Joseph Cleinmens, matter,
■, from Norfolk, boutid to London, 12 days out.
Auguit i'j, lat. 41, 40. long. 59, 30, spoke the
ihip Fox, Capt. William Gardner from New-York
bound to Hamburgh, 12 days out.
cn. Allg / U ? 'B*lat"8 * lat " 4 2 '3°> lo "g- 6+» 30, spoke a
nihing lchooner from Chatham, bouDd t-o th« Grand
Bank, who infoimrd that the day before he'fpoke
, a ihip belonging to Boflon, Capt. Broughton, from
Nantz, who was taken on the coast of France by
a French lugger, carried into Bell Isle, and had
• his cargo condemned.
f Mordecai Lewis
e has for sale,
1 NANKEENS, long and ihort.
China, well assorted.
Quicksilver.
• Diapers
I Baftas.
Coflas. •
Bandario Handkerchiefs.
Roll Briraftone.
Se P l - 6 - tt&fim
; Valuable Manufactory
FOR. SALE.
A SOAP and CANDLE Maoufa£toiy, Handing in a con
venient part of the City : the works are almoll new J
entire new conftru&ion, built of the best material#,
.and ready to let to work immediately. Apply to,
FRAUNCES and VAN REED,
Brokers, No. 63, South Third Street.
Who dffeount approved Notes ot hand at a (hort notice.
September 6th, <796. m. w. & s. tt.
• ■
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and diftridl of
SOUTHWARK, <
Publiihed, and fold by
BENJAMIN DA VIES,
No. 68, High street,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is a 6 inche? square, and has been en
graved by one of the firtt artists in the city, from a late
-»Tid accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving«« some account of the
•city, its populatisn, trade, government, &c.
. J«'y *9 ■ ■ tuf&ftf.
J Letters Patent, 2
Granted to the Subscriber, for the Cure of th
Incurvations and Di/lortions of the Spine, j. e !
By an improvement in Stays and an Apparatus.
I^ VERY thing has been studied to render this applica
-J tion fife, easy, effeSual, and generally ufeful, and
that if necessary, it may be accompanied with any other
mode.
Th« fuceefs of the Patentee in the cure of .distortions,
from Incurvations of the Spine, the Wry Neck, &c. in '
this city and in different parts of the United States, under
the infpe&ion of eminent physicians, when every other
mode had failed, will, it is hoped, afford the public-fuf
ficient testimony of the utility of this application.
N. B. He makes an apparatus for restoring diftorteii
fiet in children—Bandages in general—Truffcs of various
deisriptions, and one in particular on a plan entirely new, S
which in feme cases is found to answer better than any
other.
He returns thanks to those medical gentlemen in differ
ent .parts of the United States who have honored him with
their-patronage and confidence.
gjf* The Ladies are refpe&fully informed, that he has
an elegant affortmcnt of Sfys and Corfetsfor Sale, which
will be altered if necessary, free of extra chargi.
LUNDIN M'KECHNIE,
A'lg. 16 lawjw No. "f} Dock-flreet
Tp b« fold by public sale,
ON tVednefday, the 7th day of September next, on
thepremifos in Mount-Holly,Burlington county, by
the Subscriber,
The Dwelling-House and Lot
Whereon it stands, having been in part occupied as a (lore
for several years past, and in a good stand ior bufinefs,to
gether with the ftore'-houfe, stable and buildings thereon,
ere&ed, having two large ' ellars under them. Also, the
fliop goods and houfeholcl furniture. A clear title will be
given to the purchaser on payment of the money or fuf- •
ticient bond therefor, and possession of the premises will
be given in the said month of September.
The sale is to continue 'till the whole is disposed of.
Mount Holly having become rhs County Town, makes
this property more valuable than heretofore. The condi
tions will be made known at the time and place of sale, by
PETER SHIRAS.
N. B. All persons indebted to the fubfejiber, are request
ed to discharge the fame immediately, as he intends soon
to remove out of this Hate. Any yerfon having a jufl de
mand againfl the fubferiber, is requested to produce the
fame for settlement. • I§2W
Mount Holly, AugHft 16,. 1796.
Great is Truth and mujt prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale at No- 41 Ghefnut-fireet by J.ORMROD>
An Apology for the Bible,
By R. Watson, i>. d. f. r. s. .
Bijhop of Landaff, <Sjc.
Being a complete refutation of Paine's
Age tif Reason,
And the only answer to the Second Part.
Aug;uft 30. dtf
Watson's Answer to Gibbon.
JUST RECEIVED,
And for sale by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
Apology for Christianity,
In a feriet «f Letters, addressed to
Edward GibboH, Es^.
Author of the Hiflory of the Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire:
Br R. WATSON, D- d. f. r. s. Bishop of Landaff.
(Price 75 cents bound )
Watson's Answer to Paine,
To be had at the fame place.
The enemies of Religion are awake ! Let not her
friends si
Sept. 1. eotf
A Valuable PAPER-MILL,
FOR SALE.
SITUATE in Lower Merion Township, Montgomery
County, between ten and eleven miles from the City
of Philadelphia ; with fnety acres ef Land. The Mill is
in gocd order, and on a never failing Aream of water. For
further particulars ; enquire of the Subscriber on the pre-
GEORGE HELMBOLD.
September ift T 1796* . * co 3
* For Sale,
A new Printing Press,
PRICE NINETY-FIVE DOLLARS, CASH.—Enquire
of the Printer.
Sept. 3. fdgt.
To be disposed of,
THE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
has between four and five years to serve: She
can be recommended for her sobriety and honesty. For
particulars'enquire at No. 13s, thefnut'ftreet.
August 3. 1 oawtf.
Lands of the United States
Treasury Department, jiugufl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN pursuance of an of Congress, passed on the 18th
day of May, 1796, entitled " Aa z£t providing " for
the sale of the lands of the United States, in the Territo
ry north weft of the river Ohio, and above the raouth of
Kentucky river," that the fc&iora or lots of land descri
bed in the annexed fchedule.f ying in the {even ranges of
townships, which were surveyed in pursuance of an ordi
nance of Congress, passed on the twentieth day of May,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five,
will be exposed for sale at Public vendue, in the town oi
Pittsburgh in Pennsylvania, on the twcnty-foiirth day of
October nfcxt, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the firft day of December enfruag, unlets the said Jots stall
be sooner fold, in the manner,and on the terms and con.
ditions herein after mentioned, to wit:
ift. The said fe&ions or lots fcall be fold under the di
rection ef the Governor or Secretary of the We&ein Ter
ritory, and such person as the PreKdent of the United
States-may specially appoint for that purpose.
3d. The said fe<3ions or lets shall be fold to the highefl
bidcfer.but no sale can be made for left t3aan,two dollars
per acre of the quantity of land contained in such kit or
iticSion.
%. The highefl bidder a* before mentioned, must dfpo
iit at the time ef sale, one twentieth part at the parctiafe
money, in the hands of inch perlon a»the PrcCiieiit oftho
United States fha!l appoint to attend the fries for that pur
pole, which will be forfeited, if a moiety of the turn bid,
including the said twentieth part, fca.ll not be paid wittiin
thirtyday9'from the time of sale.
4th. Upon payment of a moietv of the porctiafe ntsoey
in the manner before mentioned, the purcfaafjer will be
entitled to one year s credit for the remaining moiety ;
ani shall receive from the Governor «- Secretary of the
V.'iitern Territory, and the person who fhiU be appointed
ty the President of the United States, to direct thf filzs.a
' Ccrtifrcate describing tha lot or f;3ion purchafrd, aod di
ohrlngthefum paidonaccount, the balance remaining Aie,
thr time when such balance becomes payable, and that'
v.-fcplc land therein auetwiW ; will be /orfei'td, if tha
'*•'*» i
fajd balSfncc is not then paid ; but if the fan! balance shall
be duly discharged.by paying the fame to the Ireafurci of
the United States, the purchaser or his adignce or other
legal representative, shall be entitled to a patent for the
said lands, on his producing to the Secretary of State a re
ceipt for such balance endorsed upon the certificate. But
if any purchaser shall make payment of the whole of the
purchase money, at the time when the payment ol the |
firft moiety is directed to be made, he will be entitled to a
deduction of ten per centum on the part for which a ere-
dit is authorized to be given; and his patent shall be itn-
mediately iffucd.
Given under my hand at Philadelphia, the day and (
year above mentioned. - „ r j
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary ef the Treasury
v - .he
Schedule of feSions of townfhif>s, or fractional parts
of townjhips, to be fold at Pittsburgh, in pur ft nice lin
of the 6th fetlion of an aS of Congress, passed on 1=»
the 18th day of May, 1796.
—. " . ~2 his
0 • • I o . 9 <1°
|h § 8
d < 8 5 < M ° P°
M|l £5 1 ' ch;
ift Range.' 6th Towßfhip. 6th Range.
ift Township. Bai2 640 each | iftTownfhip.
28 5 65 14 64S : 17 3 20
*56 95 J7a*®64o,each 18 270 ne
30 250 75 25336 640 each 21 g jo
34 240 90 BthTownfhip. 22 166 40 an
35336640 each 3ai4j64ojeach 23 427 fhi
2d Township. i7a2o 64oeach 24 640 thi
19 140 23 | fi 40 27 15 1 80 be
20 170 70 25a30|640ieach 28330 each t ; c
21 185 33 a 36i640|e3ch 3 j 58 pa
22 2 30 lothTownfhip. 343361640 each pa
25 488 80 ia2 (640 each 2d Township. th<
46a27 640tach sai4:64oe3ch 1 f26 fh:
28 560 17320 640 each a 440 du
29 55 1 60 23336)640 each 3 448 en '
30 j: 64 i2thiTownfhip. 4 4 ;6
31.136 64c each iai4 64oeach j 464 tin
4thTownfhip. 17320 640 esch 6 472
19 64 23 a each 7•- 340
3 1 * Bai4 640 each S"
26 387 60 lftTown(hi 17120640 each
27 36 . , J 23336 640ieach
3ia 3 t 640 each * 3 5 3d Township.
53 6i6 30 S4O 1
34 445 20 £ 2 478
H 35836 640 each ' nf
36 lo 40 JT ' • 4 404
jthTownfhlp. - z °? j P ' 5 502
r 6 , 3»6 640ph 6 510 rtx
il 479 30 0 l 6 , 73X4 640 each _
17 3°4 15 Q ~0 17320 640 esch
ll !to« 9 ai2 esch 6 4 oe3ch
23 450 75 ' s I sthTownfhip. j
It 6 *° 14 640 Sf
•,0 17*20640 each 2
~ o 23336 640 each 3 '34
A II o 3dTownfhip. 4 o
— 13i4]640.e3ch 5 5* 6
ad Range. 17320 6 4 g each 6 55 6 Z
iftTownfhip. 233361640 each 7 a J4o4oeac
28 I 71 20 s thTownfhip. I7«o64°=ach
34 ! 6| 5® iai 4 |64cjeach J 3 % 66^ h ~
3d Township. 17a2o|64o!each ' fowiifhip.
124326 640 each 233361640 each 1
28 499 16 7thTownfhip. 1 40
29 64c 142 64o[each 3 ij
3Ta33 640 each 537 64c|e3ch 4 "O
4thTownfhip. 12313 640' each 5 593
11 26 40 ißai9 64»'each 0I .
12 397 50 25 640. 7"4 640 each
13 5J 59 30*36 640 each I 7a2o6 4 oeach
15 27 50 9thTownfhip. *3®36 640 each
16 259 20 i3i4|64o|e3ch ' Township.
tf 524 17320 64oeach lal 4 640 each
18 640 23a36 ! 640!each r 7 a 2o64oeach
19 635 nth Township. 23836 640.each
20 584 80 i3r4|6 4 o!each 111 °Township.
•»i 636 21 i7a2o 64oeach 1314 640|each
22336 64c eaeh 23*36,640 each 17a2 * o4oieach
sthT«wnfhip. i3thTownfhip. 23*36 640 teach
5 636 iai4 64ofeach
6a7 64c e3ch 17320640 each I*l4 640 each
43a25 640 each 23336640jeach 17*20640 esch
27318 640 each ,„ == *3*3® 6 4 o|each
136 64c each 5 ftT? AN i- < t 5 ° wn P.
ythTownfhip. iai'4|64ojc3ch
3 16401 1 174 40 *7*20!640je3ch
BthTownfhip. 21 S? sa 23*366 4 oieach
las 640 each * 3 427 50 7 th R™nge.
6 440 , 26 £ Township.
7a I 4 640 cach 7 3 o . 4 | ao
17*20640 each "4 jq
23336640 each , oaio^„„ch 2dTowHfhip.
9 thTownfhip. 'j jg 3 35
A 640 30 640 each 5*6 640 each
, 1 2dTownfhip. 9 296
!3ai4 64oe3ch „ r 10312640 each
19320 640 each 1 liio z0 14 3 o
n 23336 640 each 3 43° I7 aiß 640 each
3d Range. 5 456 *9 14
2d Townfiiip. 6 464 80 20
15. 640 7 25c *3*24 640 eacl
16 600 S 618 *5 3 gc
20 v 557 50 9ai4 64a esch: 16a 37 640 each
21322 640 each 17 a2o 64c eachi 4th 1 ownfhip.
23 609 23 a 36 64oleach' 1 *141640, each
35*36 640 each 4th Township. "7 *20 04deach
3d Township. iai4 64oeach 2 3 a 3 •^4cieach
9 188 60 17120 64oeach 6tniownJnip.
10 344 i3 a 64o|each iai4 r
11 - 267 6thTown{hip-j 1 7 a2
.12 152 1314640^' s 3 a 36 6 4 o|each
14 202 jo 17320640Uach, ownfhip.
15 630 23336 64cpach 1214640 each
l6aiß 640 each BthTownfhip.i '7*20 64c each
19 21750 iai 4 640 each ( *3*36 640 each
1 20 616 75 17220 64c each 1 lo^ Townfhip.
Sia36 64o|each 233:36640) each 1214640 each
4thTownfhip. iotHTowpfhip. '7220 640 each
1 170 iai4|64oeach 23*56640 each
1 544 t7a2C 640 each 12 Township.
' $ 320 23a36i64o!each 1 aI 4 64c.each
4 4jo !2thTownfhip. 17*20 640 each
5 12c Ist 4 |64C{each 23*36
6 640 17220 64c each *4thTownfrip.
' 7 563 23336 640 each i*i4|64o|earh
Sa 9 640 each i4thTownfhip. 17*20 640«ach
10 j 4 c 80 j I*l4 640ieach 23236 64cfeach
, II 529] 70 17320 640 esch i^thTownfhip.
i»ai4 640 each ajajd 640 1 each 1 * r 4 640 each
~ 1732 c 640 each j 1 17*20 640 each
e 33336)640 each I • I 23336)640 sack
; NOTE.
j TH of L*nds in the fcvcral townships be
a the Lots "served by the
* ; Ln ilea States ard also of those formerly fold—The ag
- quantities a the several townfhio, or frsflional
■» pansof townlhipi, have been ascertained by aflual fur-
• tK# particular lots or fediotts, have
- bun DO otherwise afccrtaiued than by calculation.
.
Lands of.the Unitoil States.
Treasury Department,
Augujl 8, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby given, '
TN pursuance of an a eft or Congress passed on the 18th
1 day of May, 1796, entitled « an acl providing _ for
the sale of the Lands of the United States, in the territory ;
north well of the river Ohio, and ahove the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the Quarter Tow.lhip. of land
d' lc»ibcd in the annexed schedule, lying 111 the seven rang
es ot townlhips whieh vyere surveyed 111 purfuapee of an
ordinance of Congress, passed on the twent.cth day of
\lav in the year one thousand fevsn hundred and g y
&villb= r e X pol-edforfale at PUBLIC VENOUs,,»
.he Merchants' Cotee-Houfe in Philadelphia, on the 4th
day of January next, and thenceforward from day to day,
until the'tenth day of February ensuing, unless the said
quarter townlhips (hall be foonsr fold, in the manner and
on the terms and conditions hereinafter mentioned : viz.
xft. The laid garter townfnips (hall be fold to the
• hiffheft bidder, but nofale can be made! for less than nvjj
dollars per acre of the quantity of land contained in such
'' 2d The hightft bidder as before mentioned, must de
posit' a> the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur
chase money, in the hands of the Treafnrcr of the Uni
States, which will be ferfeited if a moiety of the turn bid,
including the said twentieth part, shall not b« paid within
thirty days from the time of sale.
3d. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchate-me
ney in »he manner beforementioned, the purchaier will
be entitled to one year's credit for the remaining mojety ;
and (hall receive a certificate describing the quarter town
(hip purchased, and declaring the sum paid on account,
the balance remaining due, the time when fuck balancc
becomes payable, and that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not then
paid ; but if the said balance (hall be duly discharged, by
paying the fame tevthe Treasurer of the United States,
thfcpurchafer or bis affigneeor other legal representative,
ihali be entitled to a patent for the said land, on his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
endorsed upon the certificate. But if any purchaser shall
make payment of the whole of the purchase-money at the
time when the payment of the firft moisty is directed to
he made, he will be entitled to a deduction of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to be
given ; and his patent (hall be immediately i(Tued.
° GIVEN "under nay hand at Philadelphia, thfl day
and year abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
„ .1 I
SCHEOULE
Of Quarter-Townflrips to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
suance of the 6th feftion of an ait of Cong less passed on
the 18th day of May, 1796.
~~~\ " """ 5 oT
- s S
4 .5- J* u I
bo <£ q = * o
® c S- <*- H
k > o
~ O r° » > I- -5
r_~ M U «
"o w • u -2 8
U- \t <4+ G
4 a * = - 5
2o * S
H
2 Soath East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
3 5 South East ,5120
North East 5120
South Welt 5120
North Weft 5120
' . ■ 20,480
7 ISouth East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
9 South East £120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
it South East 5120
North East 5120
Soath Weft 5120
North Wed 5120 [ J
20,480
4 4 South East 5120
North East j 120 ®
South Weft ci 20 1
North Weft j 120 I
'20,480 c
6 South East £120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North \yett 5 120 j
20,480
8 South East. 5120 !
North East 5120 ,
South Weft 5 120
North Weft j 12° j
20,480
10 South East 5120
North East 5120 *
SonthWeft; 5120
North Weft j 120
20,480
12 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Welt 5120
20,480
5 3 South East 4602
North East 4654
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
j South East 19 ' 49<5
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
„ 2©,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5! 20
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
' 2©,480
6 9 South East 5120
North Ealt 5120
lr _ South Weft 5120
ve North Weft 5120
i.J 1 20,48® i
¥' .o .
cu.
1 t '£
& . 1
3 J- so Eh
cd <£ 9 ® J-
s \! o -2 y
• o «J <J § u
O H £ p. er
2 h rz
r ii South East 5 1 20
North East 5 120
South WeO ji'zoj
North Weft >120!
— 20,480
13 South feft 5 120
North East yt 20
South Weft J 120
North Weft 5120,
j 20,480
6 4 South Eafl 4630
North East 4620
South Weft 5120
1 North Weft 5 120
I '9»490
6 South East 4730
North East 471$
I South Weft 5120
; Nor.th Weft 5120
-— 19,685
\ 8 South East 5 120
North East 5 120
1 South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
' 10 South Eaft;sl2o
, North Eaft;sl2o
1 South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
12 South East y 120
North East 5 120
' South Weft ST2O' ~~ —
North Weft ,5 120
20^480
14 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5 12°
1 NortkWeftyi2c4
' 20,480
• y .3 South East 51 20
Noith East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
5 South East 51 20 1
, North East 5120
South Weft 5 120
North Well 5120
20,480
7 South East 5120
'North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
9 South East 5 120
North East yi2o .
South WeiT j 120 J
North Weft $120
—•— 120,480
ii . South Eaftsl2o
North East 5 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft yi 20
20,480
13 South East 5120
North East J l2O
South Weft j 120
North Weft j 12° .
20,480
15 South Ea/ 1 yi»o
North Eafl 512 a
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
NOTE,
THE quantities of Lands in the several cownfhips b«.
fore mentioned, are exclusive of the Sections reserved by
the United States. The aggregate quantities iH the seve
ral townships, have been ascertained by adtual survey ; but
the quantities in the quarter townships, have been no
otherwise afeertained than by calculation. _
Washington Canal Lottery,
No. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for,the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, from th ?0 \
tilmac to theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz--j Prize of »0,000 dollars, -j,ooo
x ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn 7
> Tickets, each f J>ooo 35,000
6 ditto i,opo 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
TO ditto 100 2,000
55 ditto 50 2,750
5750 ditto II 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 16,250
5850 Prizes, 175,900
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
$j" The Cemmiflioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aft for the punctual payment of
the prizes. •
rhe drawing as this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timeljr
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
drawing is finilhed, fliall be confideredas relinquished for
the fcensiitof the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signtd) NOT LEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
, JAMES BARRY.
City of Waihingtow, Feb. it . $
PKINTED BY JOHN FEN NO,
—No. 119 —
CHRSNyr-STRES T.
\ l p 4ec Eight Dinars per :.nnwn,}
-
■ i , 1