of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Ncmbes 1229.] WEDNESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 17, 5796. |To/.wre X.
" For Boston,
The brig Neptune, 1
James Tower, Matter,
WtLLfallon Sunday next. For freight or paflTage apply
te EDWARD STOW, ]un.
Aug. 16 § No. 76 South Front street.
For HAMBURGH,
TilE SHIP
J. O H, N,
/7 Rostrt Jacss'qn, Maftcr,
To fail in fifteen days,
i £S HAVING two-thirds />f hr cargo en
gaged and ready to t r o on board. For freight or passage
apply to the matter on board at Wain's wfiarf, or to
John Donnaldfon, j
No. 24
July »8. § 6rotf h
The brig Maky
mmi FOR sal&,
AND may be fen at Abhh and William
A'm JtL Brown's wharf. She is about 800 barrels
burthen, strong built, and well but-bolted, lias elegant
accommodations, is a good sailer, only 10 months old,
and may be ferit to sea immediately 1 Apply to
James Brcxvn,
No. 119 South Second-street.
Who has forfaJe, a few puncheons high proof
Jamaica Spirits.
AND A FEW BARRELS SHAD.
Aug. 13 .
For Sale or Charter, j
1000 Bhls. of flour—{he may be font j
to sea at a small exfieiice, her faiis and rigging being in ]\
tery good order—apply to n
James Campbell, or
Gebrge Latimer.
April 29, §
This Day commenced Landings
Atfr'ifflins wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sldop
St. Jago, from St. JagodeCuba —coniiftingof
White and Brown Box SUGAR. 1
MOLASSES, of an excellent quality.
COFFEE.
HIDES and HONEV. Alio,
For Sale or Charter.
\ ® out » st ron g vtflel, will carry a-
Wsr xV bout 1200 barrels, and may go to
sea with a very small expense.
The above will be fol'd lor cafli or approved noteS.
Samuel Enitry,
No. 64, south Second-{ireet.
July 47, 1796-
. For Sale,
Or for Charter to the Weft-Indies,
c E™R HP fl S,
Philadelphia Built,
OF Live Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 3,?oo bar
rels, now difchargihg at Latimer's wharf. 1 his ves
sel is in excellent r'-pair, well fouud and will Bear a tho
rough examination, andasfoon as will be rea
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to
Toll a Vaughan.
July 28 §
To b$ fold by public sale,
ON Wedncl'day, the 7th day of September next, on
thepremifes in Mount-Holly,Burlington county, by
the Subscriber,
The DivdUrvs- Hc /fc and Lot
Whereon it stands, having been in part occupied as a flore
forfcveral years pad, arid in a goodftandior bufiriefs,to
gether with the store-house, liable apd buildings therein
ere&edj having two large fellars under them. Also, the
shop goods and houlehold furniture. A clear title will be
jjiven to the purchaser on payment of the money or fuf
' ficient bond thei efor, and patTcflion of the premisses will
be given :r. the said month of September.
The Caie is to continue 'till the whole is disposed of.
Mount Holly KavliTg bccovnc County Town, makes
this property more Valuable than heretofore. The condi
tions will be made known at the time and place of sale, by
PETER SHIRAS.
N. B. All perfohs indebted to the Ihbfcriber.are request
ed to discharge the fame immediately, as he intends fobn
to remove out of this Hate. Any person having a just de
mand against the fubicriber, it requested to produce the
fame for feitiement. I§lw
Mount Ko'lfy, August 16, 1796.
~~ WANTED,
A STORE and Cellar or Compting house and Cellar,
for the Wh«lefale and Dry Good bufincfs. Enquire
at No. 12$) Arch-flreei.
For Sale at the dbove place,
500 Boxes Window Glafsi 8 by 10, 7 by 9, &c
;00 Cream Clieefes in the bed order, imported from
Holland, andentitle'd to drawback. Enquire of
Peter Borger,
Aug. 16 1 2aw3w
Just Arrived,
In the Sriotv Boston, JbmisKrkpatrick, maffer from Li
verpool, '
SOOO Bulhels SALT ;
' 100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; and '
An Aflbrtment of SHIP CHANDLERY;
FOR SALE
-On board, at Pine-street wharf. Apply to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April 2Q. $
A middle-aged Woman.
WHO has been used to the care of children, and can
give reference for her reputation, may hear of a
place, as child's maid, by applying to the Printer.
-*-U<r. 15 $
Apprentice wanted
TO CAXFING AM) GILDING.
\ Youth about 14, of rcfpedable parents and can be j
a. ! well recomii' end eel. one other need apply.
Enquire of th« Printer. Avg- ij 3^l
~ . — 1. —
Landing
From on board t'ne Nancy, William Belc'ner, mas- -i
ter, from BoiirdeSnx, a cargo, confiding of— J
360 Hhits. CHOICE CLARET, !
Cases of 24 bottle 3 each; Claret, c
286 do. of 24. do. WHITE WINE,
BRANt>Y, SWEET OIL, and '
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS,
For Sale by a
F. Goppmgeir.
Jii'7 23. dtf.
Wm. '
a
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the iateft arrivals from Europe and ' p
the East Indies, a well fcleded aflortment of Silk j
Mercery, Lineu Drapery and Haberdalhery Goods ; which a
he will fell, Wholcfale an(i Retail, on the lowest teriJs ; ' h
antongst which i ri
Some fine India muilins embroidered with gold and fiiver a
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs tl
Sonie extra black taffeties,iut«ftringsand colored Pcrfians r<
i Baridano Handkerchiefs
Lonp: arid iliort Nankeens ' e:
, Englifli Mantuas of the firft quality h
Damask table linen and napkins, very fine h
Silk Hosiery, an elegant aflbrtment fc
Thead and cotton do ii:
Umhreflas—green fifit, oif d do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irish Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
Wanted,
A Partner with a small capital to unite in the business
of a Mill and Diftfllerj in Virginia. Inquire of
the Printer. Atig. 9 §iw
J >!.-•- ' A| ■-— / m-tfTi I •
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chef
street, between Front and Second streets, in which
Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for man) years (and C J
now do) carried on business.
Poffeflion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAjM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April 21. §
FORSALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
in pipes and hogsheads
Claret, genuine old, in qafes lc
Gin, in pipes, fiom Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Baflcet Salt, ili hogfhiNirts
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, I arid 9
Bar Lead, Red and White dry lead
Steil, German and Russia, in barrels
1 Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpoliu canvas,
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary by ,
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. t ,
July 29 §
CABLES, p
From 16 to 9 £ incHes, for sale by t
yeremiah Warder,
July 21 § No 12 north Third-ftrttt.
ELEPHANT. i
This Animal is tt be seen in High-Strtef, between 1
the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street.
HE will pofitivt'ly leave Philadelphia tht tenth of Sep- 1
tembcr, for Baltimore, in his way to Charltflon, r
1 where he will win'cr
ADMITTANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar
for Children
[lie PANORAMA', or the VIEW of the CITIES of
LONDON and WESTMINSTER,
Is to be open till the 10th of September, and the sub- i:
n will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE- t
y PHANT. ?
ADMITTANCE f6r the FANORAMA, t
Oiie quarter of a Dollarl (
, e August 3. 1
Sa es of India Goods. 1
The. Cargo of the ihip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal- t
j- cutta and Bengal,
•j, CONSISTING OF
ALargb and general affortmeiit of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
eg * AMONG WHICH ARE
ii- A variety fine worked and plain Muslins,
yy Doreas, isfc. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
. In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
e ° For Sale by
he Willings ?£f Francis,
No. 21 Penn Street. !
_ J une 8 § ,
A Book-Keeper,
re /""iR Clerk's place is wanted by a person properly quali-
V J iii d, and whose charafler will be found unexception
able. Apply to the Printer.
Aug. II tf
m ;— <
For sale by the fublcribers,
IN PENN-STAEET,
130 quarter Chests frefh Hyson Tea;
i©o ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes Chink, containing small tea l'etts of 42 :
pieces;
400 pieces Bandaaoes.
Willings y Francis.
January 30 3taw.
! 1
Lottery and Broker's Office,
N Q * 64 Sou/i Setond flreet,
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery No. 11, are now fea
dy sot- sale, a Check Book kept for the examination
of Tickets, and Prizes paid, without dedudliori.
The Subscriber folicifs the application of the Publics*
any ot his friends who wifli to purch fe or fell Bank Sto'ck,
m Certificates, Bills of Exchange, or Notes, Houses, Lands,
a Lotts or Merchandize of* any kind, or to obtain Money
on deposit of property.
WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
Late Agent fnr the Canal Lottery Company.
Shares an Tickets in the late Newport Long 5
Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery examined ; r a <
>e I complete lift of all the prizes having been received at \
ithis oflice. (
June 6. w&s
. ; -
Samuel Ri chard et,
"O ESPECTFUI^IA r informs the Gentlemen J
IX. Merchants, sLat he has this day opened the C?ITY :
TAVLRN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOtJSfe in the
city of rhihdehhia. v
The SufeftriptiOn Room "will be furnil!ied with all the u
daily in PHiladdphia, N;vi r -York, Bos
ton, Kaitlmore, together with those of the principal com
mercial citiis of Lurope—ThCy will regularly filed
and none to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Sotfpes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and 'a variety
of Frci • > L,iqucys; together with the lifual refreT!im'ehts,
will at all ninr-'S be procured'at the bar. / /
may depend on being .acccSmmodatcd with
the choiccit of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, apd. the mod'
approved Malt Liouors froniLondon and other breweries.
The Larder wilt befupplied with the prime and earliest
; produ<slions of the Stafon.
j Large and smalL Parties, or single Gentlemeni'ma?y be
j accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
; hours motb conv nient to themselves—a cold Collation is
! regujarly kept for cenvehiency, tlie Billof Fare to be had
at the bar. N
The Lodging Roomi will be completely furniflred, and
the utqaoft attention paid to cleaniinefs', and every other
reqnifitg.
t S -! muel Rich ardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large J and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part fhali bfe wanting to pre- .
patronage with which he has been so dtftinguift
ingly.iionored.
Philadelphia, April 19. eo,'
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE, *
Souchong j,
Hyson Skin / ,
Young Ilyfon > FRESH TEAS ,
Hyson and , \ r
Imperial J
Yellow Nankeens t
va - -
Handkerchiefs of excellent quality lit
chests
Lomdon Market MADEIRA WIKI.
London particular in pipes, hogiheads, &
New-York Market J quarter calks
TenerifFe Wine in pipes and hogflieads
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in flieets
3 Calks of Cutlery aflorted
A few chests of Matichefter Goods, assorted thick- ,
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, S;c.
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks j
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-root. j
Nails assorted in caflcs (
July 18'' mv " &f r
FOR SALE, " ;
The Cargo of th- fiiip Potomacit Chief, consisting of '
450 Hhds. Tobncco, ;
chiefly from the upper warehouses on South Potomac, and j
of a good quality. j
This fliip is char'ered to proceed to Falmouth and one j
port in Europe without the Streights and Baltick a 65f. ,
fterlisg Freight and s.per cent, primage, and willbe clear ;
to fail by tßie iqft. from Alexandria., ,
For apply to ' EMANtjEL WALKER. .
Aug. II ' tfE&w ]
Information , ;
TS- given daily of the drawing of tbc WASHINGTON
1 LOTTERY, atthe Office
No. 147 Chefnut Jlreeti
between Fourth and Filth streets. Also, where Tickets ,
may yet be had. AU'r. 15. CO ■
The Eleventh day's drawing i> arrived -
Xobe fold,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Gloucester, and state of New-Jirley, contain
in£ about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow A
great part of the arable land is in a high slate of cultiva
tion, and very natural'to the produdion of Red Clover,
On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
with four rooms on a floor, and i good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
lisufe rhf garden is large, and contains a good collec ,
tion of the bed kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees;
. the orchard cotififts of about three hundred grafted apple
trees. Any perfop inclined to purchase said premises, may
be informed ef the terms by applying to
s ■ Andrew Hunter.
>'y *9 F
Asjhetoii arid James Hump hreys,
CONVEYANCERS,
HAVE removed their office to No. 61, Walnut-street,
next door but two to the corner of Deck-flreet,
where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn at
a moderate charge, with care, accuracy and dispatch.—
They likewise boy and fell Real Effctes upon commif
fioris, and procure Money upon Loan on good security.—
The business of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NOTA
RY PUBLIC is also tranfafled at the said office as usual
" b; ASSHETON HUMPHREYS.
N. B. Good Notes discounted.
July j. co6w
For Sale,
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
- TN New Jersey, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbour*
J. The Grill Milli* sixty by'forty feet, two water wheels,
and calculated for four run of Stones, with screen, fans
find boulting-cloths, &c. The Saw-Mill has two faws,and
capable ofcuttingfiveto 6 100 thoufandfectof Bolrdsper
year. A valuabl.piect of Cedar Swamp, within a mile
1 arid a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
of a Landing The Lumber, &c.may be taken by watet
from the mill tail.
ALSO FOR SAtE,
Several Valuable Trails of Land,
[ In Pennsylvania, for a!i of which payment will be receiv
ed in the notes of Mcflrs Morris and Nicholfon, or in
Cash.
For further information apply to the Printer.
- May 17. 4 aaw
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
r Including the Northern Liberties and diftriift of
, South war K;
, Published, and fold by
Benjamin davies,
No. 68, High street;
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 26 inches square, and has been en
graved by one of the firfl artifls in the city, from a late
1 and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " some accbunt of the
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
July 19 ta&ftf
George Dobson,
BF.GS reave to inform the Store Keepers in Town anA
Cotitttrv,that he has removed frQm Maiket-Slirct to
N°- 25, south Third-Jb-eet, "
where he is opening a Large and Elegsnt Aflortraent of the
uAde rtnen cioYied a r ticles—v Iz.
Superfine LondonOlotbs'and KcrrftVrficre**
YorkOiue fetond Do. Do.
I Elastic do. do,
Mix'd and BluV Cf itirrs
Flamulls, See.
■ Manchester r.ir.tcd CalSir'^es,
London Chintz ciiuo, ,
Hlue and ditto Furniunes, ;
India <*Lrtb,
Long Cloths, Coffa«v Caftas, Batti3las&-Ctrnjc^renS*.,
4-4'9-8 5-4 & 6-4 Suoetfine Indw Bo<*k Mofiiris,
4-4 and 9-S India Book Handkerchicfs,
4-4 land 9.3 Scotch ditto,
4-4 &<>-4 pbSn do. Muifcita,
4-4 &~6-4 Br it i("h Jaconets,
6-4 Briiilh Checks and Stripes,
4-4 do. do. do.
4-4 ditto'Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs. &c,
A large aftoument of figqr'd and f iain f&ifltnets,
Qui 1 tings, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
Fancy VVailtcoatings,
Ginghams of the fir ft Quality, fubjeft to Drawback,
India Nankeens,
Men's White and eoleured St!k'dockings.
May 9 iiwrtt
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RAN away tfiis morning from the Subfcribcr, living
in the county of Monmouth, NeW-J, rby, a remark
ably black Ncgrb Man, nimid BEN—about 40 years of
*g<V 5 fcet )or tx> inch"! high, lie,at mads, bald on the
crown if his head; had On and took with l.im a grey
homespun costing coat and jacket, a brown cloth coat,
with a black collar, homespun tow fliirts ind trtfwfers,
with other sHirts and fmail cfoaths wb.ch cannot lie ei u
merated. He is a compUifant, artful and deceitful fellow-.
Whoever .v.'ili take up and ficure the'faid Runaway, so
that his pwner m.y him again, (hall have th atove re
"~'J ~ J — J ~' a " JL jjatyjfdl 'JSuMk-Wmfi-.
' July 2s—Aug. 1 § iw
t For Sale,
A LARGE elegant and well finished
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOI of GR^tU ND thereunto belonging,
the weft fide of Tiiird-llrcet, near Union-dlfeet
containing in front 31 teet, and in depth 100 feet, to an
alley leading into Union-ftrect. The house is 32 feet front
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are*
jarge, commodious, and completely finifhed; the twofiift
stories are each 13 feet high ; rhere are lu mahogany
doors in the house; a geometrical ilaircafe, with mahoga
ny rails and a gsod iky-light. The kitchen is in the 1 e!I
---ar, which is fjtacious and convenient, and fini&ed with an
oven, ftew-hoies and pantries, a servants' hall and
iwirfe-ccllar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which i -a
area in which there is a pump The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the faidbuilding is a n'>at three-story
brick house, on the north fide of Union-ilrcet, contain
ing 30 feet front by 29 feet deep,; the lower part of which
; is at present occupied as a compting-houfe, and the'ujjner
• part divided into wq-ll finijlied largn chancers. Tiiishoufe
r may at a small expense be conv:rted into a coivjnient
dwelling : Th'eftfcetdoor is very bandfome, and thffront
and back have Venetian window-fluitter". Adjoining the
last house, \lp.on ths lot be'ontyng-io the fir ft, are treated
bathing-rooms, &c. There ar; li'- Wifever'y food coach*
, house and llables firfiflicd equal (or nearly so) with any in
the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
in depth 011 the weft fide said alley 5a feet. There are
good cellars-unde. the-whole of the buildings, and a u itie
y room qver part of theftable, with a hay-10l t over the re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
1-D'VaRD HONTS LL & Co.
At their OfSee .Vo 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Pear
'O llreets.
6th month 24th, 1796
- Just Published,
BY THOMAS DOBSON,
'. AV the Stone House, No- 51 South Sccond Street,
neMfy printed in one volume quarto, price fix
r dollars the fine paper, or five dollats the com
mon:
The Four Gospels,
TRANLATRD FiiOM THH GJiEEK;
J With preliminary Diffcrta ions, and Notes critical and el
planatory.
By GEORGE CAMPBELL, D. D. F. R. S.
&c. Pr<nci*al of Mar if chat College, Aberdeen.
* # * The cliaiafter of the author, for acntcnefs
and etudition has been rftablifhed by his tfTay on
t, miracles in answer to D>vi<J Hun e," the grcatell
t> masterpiece of the kind ever published, and by hi#
u '• Philosophy of Rhetoric," and to the merit of
J_ the present work, the result of nearly forty years
_ ft tidy and application, and the fubilance of his
l- course of ledhires in his official capacity, the
teviewers have given ample t'eftirhony, but their ac
count, however honorable to the work, is too long
for a place in this advertifemcnt, the work howev
er is now presented in an American edition at net
more than half the price of the London copy.
July 20.
Landing,
18
d From on hoard the Schooner Expedition,
; e r St. Croix Rum&Sugar,
le For Sale by f. COPPiNGER,
:r Aug. 11 $ hi South Frofit-drcet.
Spanijb Treaty Ratified.
THIS DAY, Puhliflied by J. OHMKOD, No. 41,
7 ~ Chesnut-Strkiit, in a handsome pamhlet.
n (PaiCE 12 and 1-3 Cents. )
ATRJZATT of FRIENDSHIP, LIMITS is"
NAVIGATION,
_ BET'WEEN the United States of America, and hi*
Catholic Majesty—with the Proficient's Proclamation
announcing its ratification.
ORMROD hSs lately Published the British and Al
giTine Treaties, which match in lize with the above.
Also, fesrke's celebrated letter to the puke of Bod*
ford, and Wharton's answer to Priestley
Augurt 13- 1 4t§mw&f.
To be diTpofed of,
; e TT'HE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, wI;o
1- i lias between four and five years to serve: She
ie can be recommended - her sobriety and hnnefly. F«v
particulars enquire at No. 13a, Chefnut-ftreet.
Auguft3. 2awtf.----- —j~— - n — j ixjgi .pyjr i.,,1 lirnm
/ row the Farmer's I'/cekly Muftum.
" J)o thyfrtf no har.n."
a '« injunctions, this appears at firfl fight, tie
rapft UnnrcefTary. One would suppose thai the fel
•i.nncfs of our nature wonld be a fufficient pledge
for ahftaimng from injury to ourselves. Yet, strange
to tell, although we are persecuted with a thou
sand misfortunes from without, we are dill so in
iove with pain, tliat we strive eageily and p.ffi.luouf
y to harm ouifelves, and invite the vulture and
4 « Vl P tr v 'ces to their prey.
Paul iifed tlie language of my text,
to the alarmed goalerat Philippi, and I am surpri
zed, that when the apostle was no longer in du
rance, and writing coolly in his clofct, admoiritory
-iters to the Romans, Corintlyans and others, that
» - ''' ' "ot repeat his iirju£tion. Few but what
-ould profited of luch a le(Ton. For nine times
out of ten, even in this unlucky world, men fuffir
Wore from their own, than others harms. The firil 1
ci us of injuries beget a bitterer remorse too, thsn '
the second. When lightning scathes the oak of 1
our sorest, or hailstones T)eat the harvest into dull : 1
"■■en mildew taintg the fields, or tempest unroofs '
habitation ; when pestilence discharges the volley 1
of death at our perforts, or scandal, arrown of poison <
at our fame, in all these cases men sooth themselves f
with the remembrance that Arch things are inevi- c
tabic. But when mifchie-f is of our own seeking, v
"•e are then doubly tortured on the rack of repent- 1
lam sorry tnat so shrewd a remarker as '
Sterne,, (hould have afTerted that «' a (hattered t;
fortune and >a Mattered fame are but light affliifh'- °
ons, i, we have the falh/aSion of /battering them ')
our,elves." These were careless words dropt from °
the pen of an ingenious author, in the moment when b
a iparkhng psrodcx beguiled him from truth anc!
realon. The mam, who beholds his health, his al
iortune, or his virtue prostrate, and knows that he vv
was the author of the mighty ruin, fuffers greater in
purnfhment, than Sicilian tyrants ever invented, or
tT , ' le a^''e ever beheld. tii
.. °yr man J r mfatuated mortals employ life in de- P e
viling schemes which mult inevitably terminate in th
fnriery to. themfelve#, -M<?n wouM re T* n t L-..-,..is- :r ;
in- aciguoour thoulct wrong .them*even -tn-theme- to
red trifles, but ourovvn evil affe&ions are more ve
pernicijus than the secret withes, or the open aflault J e<
of a vengeful foe. th
' v Addifon, in one of his Spsaators, a work which rei
for pure morality, may rival the sermons of an
Archbilnop ; Addiion, who ought to have been a eri
prelate, rather than a politician, tells us that when
lie ueiioids a luxurious banquet spread, he thinks thl
he can discern Fever and Gout skulking among the thl
dishes. 6 b th<
Thus the toper's bottles, the (harper's cards, and Cr
the worldling's plans, I have thought were so ma- ow
«y javelins and fwortfs, which men lifted against
their own exrftence. I-believe that no one will fay f n<
that my morality is impraflicably rigid, but still I ' nt
mud think though wine and play and wealth in mil
moderation are innocent, yet 1 mud forbid their in- anc
ceflant purfmt, f or 1 wish that the world would not
da ' l J e >f no harm. pla
The CAY PREACHER.
I , —WTiTTyißwi fait
XThe fU~ UGU S T J Uly 28, ' P
Lt he following protest of the State Commissioners, derl
and the answer »f the Federal Commissioners, by I™
letter to the kxecuttve of Georgia, cannot but be' at fl
tnterejting to our readers.J COUI
peni
117-r 1. , C° LEK -AIN, 2cth June, £nt ]
WE the undersigned Commissioners of the state for ,
ot Ueorjfm, appomted on the part of the state, to Indi
attend a treaty wrth the Cretk Indians, now held R
at this plaee under the "authority of the United !n
• State., m pursuance of the triad reposed in us Cre£
11 our duty, which we owe to'
our country to pmtell, and we do hereby PRO - g t h'
TEST against the Commissioners of the Uni ted Coni
States, and their fuperintendaot of Indian afFair,, «• ha
for certain proceedings affecting the object of the " «
ltate of Georgia, the relinquifhment of the Indian " tei
claims to certain lands contemplated in an aft of "
this date entaled " an ad for appropriating pan
° f ""located territory of this date, for pay- « th(
ment of the late date troops, and for other purpo. th,
'herein mentioned," puffed the 28th Deem.ber, "
1794, as the causes of the failure thereof, as sol- " r
lows ; s ons |
t , protest against certain regulations of ' ' h ? f U
the Commissioners of the United States, signed ofor
Benpmin Hawku's and George Clymer, ported up j the ri
th ° f Colewin » an( l dated her, b
the 26th day of May lad, and which regulations P>
are 111 t.ie words following, to wit. " The Cn™ ler °f
" for holding a treaty tvith the Creek 1 - S J. X '
« Nation of Indians, order t6 prevent quarrels, : ? h f° r
improper behaviour, or mal-praftice during the j
:ZS n ' 7 j,:d u gCd 11 P ro P-> in virtue of I veafs
« Tni authority vested in them, to ! foverei
(i Vi owin ß regulations." treaty
lit. The Indians are to be encamped on the river I l )rer ' :n
Ld "> ">= f P""S , "rt
»»hl; " hi ' " Mc ° ce Hf?
3d. Np citizen of the United States is to be of par'
permittee, to encamp with, or near the Indians, ex- ,lle u "
cep. such as are under the direction of the fuoer the y lo
intendant. - 'uper- fcvera ,
4th. No citizen is to be permitted to enter the aU ! ,frei
Indian eamp in arms. rjelanc
Jth. No citizen is to visit the Indians, or hold °wf
acycoi.verfation with them, except with a permit »Co
fi.qm the Commissioners of the United States or ma<le 11
eti.ier ot them. , or which,
6th No citizen hto be in arm, in the garrison f' P ' U " der
or neighbourhood of it, and on the arrival of 5 ™as
vK.'or vrtHj ffify travel with arms, they are to be 1 TC °
of this order, and requeCed to conform ,aiX
No citizen to Ke permitted so ivii r of
nfli.hy gift, fpuitaous liquors to the Indians" or "to which*
I * ve any commercial traffic with them. ~h 1
8J:. These regulations are to'be pod-duo 3
!x two gates of the garrison and a* t',/ rf P*rt
if the fuperintendant." ' ' rc ''tience dilated
By which reo nation, the cifctmiffionei* of the
In
V . ( w
date liTve beer, debarred from cosciliari-g the as.
feitiong of .he Indians, and can)eq\ier.tly elTefting
the object of their mission—the civil and a-:fua!
ight, tl e jurifdiftionil rights of the state have been infringed,
the fel- and her confequtn.-e in the eyes of the Indians, j
t pledge much lefTrned, who will be taught by the conduit i
, strange we have experienced, being liable'to donpage by
a thou- *h | ? cenfi "els, without passports from the Federal
ill so in ron our own ground, and within the
fliduouf- adtual limits of the fovereigntv of Georgia, from
ure and catering their encampment, that the citizens of the
date, however high their comrr ilTbn, are inferior in
ny text, consequence and rights to themfilves, and may be
1 furpri- insulted with impunr.y.—
in da- Secondly. We protest against the manner of con
loiritory during the said treaty : The fame bfeing ordered
;rs, that hv the President to te at Colerain, and to be con- ;
t what du&ed in a fair, open and honorable manner, and 1
le times so the talk or invitatiofi of the President, ar.d the
1 fuffit . talk of Georgia were given, in a fqtiwe or bower,
rhe fird erected in the garrison for that purpole, since which,
0, thsn without any known reason to the Commissioners of
oak of th* Rate, the place has been altered to Mufcoghe,
0 dnft : the tefidence of the fuperintendant, where {he talk
unroofs °f the Indians, inanfwer to the talk delivered bv
: volley us wa3 manufaiftured, and where the Commilnon
poifon ers of Georgia, owing to the regulations before c
Mfelves protested against, had no acctfs—The said preten- ii
inevi- ded answer or talk of the Indians not being deli: ii
■eking, v ered in the usual open mariner in the square, face ti
repent- to sace > before the of Georgia and ti
ker as tll<: United States, but penned in the camps of cer
ittered faln Agents or Interpreters, Hnder the command tl
ifHiai- 'he fuperintendant, and transmitted, not direst- tl
them IJ. but through the channel of the Commissioners c
t lrom o( the United States to us, without being certified b
: when °y them, or by arty attesting witnesses, Chief, tl
hand Agent, or Interpreter. And for this also, that in c;
h, his to attend one of the conferences, to ft
bat he which the Commissioners of the United States had ar
reater 'nvited the Commissioners of Georgia, we were in- o!
:d, or lu'ted by the stoppage of our Secretary by the cen- bl
tinel of the garrison picket ; and he havingour pa- ci
in de- P ers we were compelled to return, in obedience to tl:
ite in regulations before-mentioned. Pr
.«me- for not permitting us to 'lo
more * er f f ntiments, during the negociation, on the sub- qn
1 Adult our particular mission, without being under du
their controul, and overruling arbitrary 'interfe
vliich rcnce - alt
>f an further protcd againd the said Commission- an
een a s ''°r eva '' v e conduct towards the date and her Tl
when Commissioners, in offering their services to procure wil
(links at oße period, and openly declaring at ano. Api
g tjje ther, in open council, that it was not the with cjf noi
the Commissioners of the United States that the rea
, and < ~ recks Ihould part with the lands without their the
3 ma- own del 'rf.
;-ind Thirdly. We protest againd the fuperindant of are
11 fay ~ ndian "ffairi for not countetaaing certain reports ed
j introduced into the Creek Nation, that the Georgia and
hjn militia were to encounter the Indians in this plaee, we.
r in- and ccrta >n sent there persuading the Indians did
ould n ° c relinqmfh their claims, to the lands contem- obf
, plated to be purchased by the state, in the invita- thei
1. of 'he"President and the aft mentioned afore- lyin
n lTl h J y ' , V Yf. pro f efta g alnft ,hc t'me and place an- til
pointed for .holding the treaty, both of which we >m- J t ,
Indfan' (T recomme nded by the fuperinundant of '
r, by 4 "° ,a " anaira, on account of the fcareity of provisions
country—The fuppl.es of the former swelling the ex- ''
altW L a " en °'" mOUB , a 7 lount ' and 'the latter being, (tbo
s; b
l eid. . Fifthly. Wt protest against anyTscfflon of land, with- lßth
'ted th ® territorial limits ot the Georgia bv the tlon
us, r 4. ,ans ' t0 the United States, whetlier for the thee
"J Bth fedlon, of the firft ?r t,cl/of the StaS T
ted Conftitutron which declares, " the Congrtfs lhall H
irs, '• have power to exercise exclusive legislation in all y ° U 1
• « taiit"?^ oeVe \' oVerruchd ' stria (""t exceeding u P on
lan « n™r ,e ° T re) " may by cession °f Particular with
ot " " ftat nf aeeeptance of Congress become the were
art „ I ' t of the Unrted States - and to in vo
exercise Jike authority over all ulares nitrrXof \ i '
ay- t£ theconfent of the legislature of the state, in which
1Q - „ ,he flme r he for the erefl.on of forts, maea n '
and other needful bull
ol" rj 1-' ° on for tradin g toufes ahd earn- Ha,vl
the United aPP^ d , f ' 0r Comn-.ifhonS of furnif
of f'ft rT' 'and adjacent for finck, and to by tt
ed ; G^ia, par r
tip 1 the rights of the state, and be prolog Jed on
Ld h B n ° W t0 be C(,nc!u ded on at a public treat
z |« by ,h[ a?-.
Gl ' pl, ™'°" '° d P |," POT
,0 ! requtfl
I S-K power of the Onited States under the ,alk >
; s k
. rc "
? at the time it was made, and if the United
a right to take a retrofpetfive view and 'ffV n to ,hc '
,e o P ar t of a Sate, made before their authority exilled* ni ' ,anl
C - Lroff"'? t m ; y make different ceTo-nsTunti Mr.
r - X hc \ { if one state. the; ma ' ers, ca
e He at,
att.' <-'4 'SLtrs ss?,
! faid W C C om^ h ff Proteft 3gainft the^<>ndru<ni n „ of the- ?' ou!d 1
m 1 , as to the property the Indian? arc ''oners
r whfrl fl fl-" nd^r the fa'd treaty of New-York theyw
f C ° nfineS the demand fo r Property peruf.,;
exauiin!
' frai'ufT' k We therefore protest a- T
5 ' he P a 7 m ent cr liatility of payme.ft rf m a,terd ,h
-y»
: SKtfr?" i '«- «-«f &"e" e »
which so far from being conduced in a fair, open J'" *
1 1 notable manner, the answer of the Indians Genr B' a:
one party thereunto, if so it can be called Wh , Thc c<
dilated to them in ferret - 1 et -> has been Indtanstl
"ce and cannot be confidereTtheir SZ 'Id
t Ut the slate of Gcorgia nQt .J rA ,
; : he as- opportunity to contrr.£l for tt:- Ijjids, 'he
clTettinji j plea of the chiefs, openly dftia'ed by A-leck Cor
el a.:lual I nek and the Biid Tail King, then*ipcakers, new
ifrjilgei', j being, that the refufal to giving np ihe land was
Indians, I fully determined oil in tTie nation, and that the :
conduct j chiefs came inflrtifted to abide by that determine.
>*ge by tion, wlrich if true is a fraud on the /tare, and a ;
Federal trick unwort dignity and hpnor of the United j
thin the States, tranfadled through their fnperintendant to c
a, from fiing one half the expence of a treaty to serve their |<
sos the own purposes, on an individual ftafe, which could
feriorin possibly teap no benefit thereby; and we do in r
may b*e conference protest against any payment or liability
of payment by the tt.ite of (Jenrgia as aforefaid y
of con- for or* on account of the fame, unless it'nhay be Inch n
ordered nei efiniies as ilie commtfluners of Georgia or their
be c"on- guard or household may have drawn, and for which £
ler, and only the state ou°ht tri be accountable. a
and the JAMES HENDRICKS,") Q
bower, JAMES JACKSON, i 3 a
which, i JAMES SIMMS, J f (
>ners of By order of the Board of Commissioners.
fcoghe, . THOMAS ROBERTSON, Sec'ry.
he talk
re 'J_ hy Sir, Co/erain, J>n/y I, 1796. ' tl
nilnon- \THE day before the Commissioners on the part
before of~Georgia lait us, they fecit us a paper, purpart- tl
preten. ing to be a protest against certain proceedings had ci
g deli- in relation to the wilhes of the Hate of Georgia, w
e, face to acquire certain lands from the Creeks, at the bt
;ia and treaty concluded 011 the 29' h ult. at tin's place. fa
°f cer- We read it with that attention due to t»en in fh
nmand their situation, and we can attest, extravagant as
direst- the protest is, that it if of a pie,* with their whole
fioners conduit during their residence at this place. The wi
:rtified bell answer to it probably would be drawn from vo
Chief, the paper itfelf, by every refleding mind, after a
hat :n candiJ perusal of its contents. We feel, notwith- I thi
es, to dancing, a desire to remove fotne impressions, which to
es had are intended to be produced by it ; and this is the Jas
ere in- object we have in giving your Excellency the trou. wh
e ceo- ble of reading otw comment. .It would be fuffi- we
ir pa- cient for us'to refer you to pur letter of this date,
ice to the fails therein being incontrovertible, all the ex- j rel
xiUil* -JW» jveignt, am. But we muTE emer ) did
r deli- iomcwhat into detail. Your commissioners, fre- we
e sub- quently Ipeaking of over ruling and arbitrary con- the
under dud, forget that it is only applicable to themselves. ner
terse- -*It may be neceflary to observe, that they have gcr
altogether m.ftaken the natuic of their aothority, she
iHlon- and have a/Turned a high diplomatic charadler.-L had
w , e must suppose, or otherwise, that they had obi.
ocure willingly flighted the terpis and condftions of their pe£
-ano. ,appointment. Such high, felf created pretensions ofFe
' ,, q Dot be,H S y ft Wed to on our pan, is, no doubt, the tiar
'«& ,h ™ sh "' z:
nt , T',eregulations mentioned under the firft head, coir
nt of are literally in conformity to inflations, fugged- mis,
ports ed, we can conceive, by the expenence of the pad ; be f
orgia and conform cxa&ly to our sense of rignt We 1
Jaee, were furpr,fed that the commissioners of Georgia ant 1
Lu3 . themselves discover a special interest in the F
tern- observance of feme fueh regulations, considering S
v. a- their tendency to obviate some of the difficulties Liffi
w , a 7 of ,ht,r "wn objed, had it been I und<
attainable at this treaty, as they were aware of the treat
Z ' in a " ,hl ' ngß relatin s to fw
in is Irate. |
t of rjv, gp • J gave
(ions \ hc comment on these regiiletions in the protest, o a i„
jing we do not. pretend to urxlerftand. ud<
: ex- The fec<?nd ;in answer to this, which we hope, I T
mg, (though against appearance) not to be defignedlv fumu
en, m.J-cprefented we have to state, that the'com^L^
J m f^° ncrSoof,f f , ,e Unitfd S <3tC6 did > on '7'h debt
,8,{ UnC 'i fr ! C C0 L mmiffio " erS ° f Geor B' a on the prote
ith- . a adrefs tne chiefs at the square 'of negocia- of th
the tion in the garrison ; that after the latter addtefs, anfwt
the the commissioners of the United States said to the it can
out Indians-" You have this day heard the talk of Lounc
ltC s °T br ° therS ' the flovcd «e» °f Georgia. It i s ; n the
ull K ~° ne ' and cont *' ns m3n J things. We request "the
S y °" W,il a "r y° U,felves ' u ®eient tLc to confide! Cote
ng u J? ()n 't- 1 hat you will consider upon the lubiedl now t
Ur with as much coolness and deliberation, as if you w,-s t
the were within your own square or your own councils chiefs
7 MTvT' l" r " PCrf?dt faf^at this tion."
ch f J choo(e y° ur g'o"nd fordelibera- To
;a- r!™' a ? d all be secure from all interruption." 0 f the
il- H ' C , c " lefs ' after consultations, applied to ilr. « T
ri " [ an . d «q«fted that he would have thj.m view o
of fuin.fted with a copy of the talk delivered them mal e,i
to by the commissioners of Georgia, and all other think I
0 papers referred ,0 in it ; they wished to have them 'r at
- \T nc,!s h ,hat mi « ht under «- d you
ery part, bifore they mads up their minds t„
v " S ? H c M d' i i aWki r apph.tdtoMo Simms, and of'c"!
hour. ' W Pr ° mif,;d thcm in half a " t ween 3
to jM«i 19. This day the Indians applied for the F
° e fhe P cl P T led the f V Cnerday ' £nd we to We
tne commissioners of Georcia " Th/. l
ie talk you addrefTed to them ytfterday, lh at thev ' , 8
u may be able to examine it leifurelv in their A '
CI, Wcha V e p romi^-itVothl, n an?:X n e"
*If [y'f °[y° a to an authentic copy fc c ™ e j
■s of the fpecch, together with the papers ref-rreH •
;■ " h,ch "« c "pUinrf , otl «
il Mr - R°bertfon, the secretary to the commission r'l-A
e«, called pi us snd delivered the talk, certified to f
S ' 63 Ti C ? Py ' and — ts f'o- some of tbe pa ' h "
e per. alluded to. He said the :,. lper containing sh e ZT
claims aaainft the Indians, was an original • that it f. 7
> would take three" days to co»,v • that th, • v ard
, <» «• °" io r
, ihc, »„„| d fticw it to tia. if «.« were ™ > ™'™
sssl r misi "
1 7-
T l' „ , lhc y were ordered acco.din 2 l v . •
rherelultof this conlultatior, being iel.veted mm. S ,a » we
gave Uto tbe comm,m on er s of Georgia WC
Georgia: 3 ' Xtra£t fr ™ a note to the commissioner, of (
Indians thHlt? °J t
met. at the f J ln<Jijn
aars H: -
1
1 -- ■ • Q~: j /
nds, 'he Georgia; and cctoduA .cheiy *o -the Ir.dian fqoare <rf i
r a lull. t> OC: -
° " Extract from a letter t\ the eommifTtonera of P
ers, now relative to !he stoppage of ffreii ; cor gu
land was " A circumflance gratine to ..hi I. eJin gs ,.& c w[)ic |
that the are {arr y so li "C«*- Tuillcj! has beer, so polite ns n
onus, to allure ui ic was contrary, to orders " «* am •
;!ermina- are of opinion vvi,h Caot. Tinflev, and thank hitn lor
e, and a attention; we cannot forbear to e\pre's," & c .
e United The eommdfioners c> Georgia attended, and ih c COll ■
■mlant to °P" ed " - f . TI ■ ,
. The of the United States bv Mr u
rve their ki ns _ ' mr Haw,
ch could Representatives of the Creek laftd, this paoer whir!
■e do in "° w to™ y° u - ls lhe P»P« you sent us, i„' ai ,r wer ~, ,i
r lt. beloved men of Georgia. Wc have flirwn it »•
! ; ab ' ! r .y ate „o W together lace 7o faee; I iha,l 1
Iferciaicl y o |j may know whether it is your talk, and your ' ' •
he inch nations ' ' etermU
or their Th f tal £ L w3s rcarf M"graph by paragraph, and
~ . preted. The commirfioiiers enjoined it on'al! m '
" Wh ' th «**«• * r ic»..r, as they vlere
a question to the chiefs. P ut
1 P I« t! " s lhe lalk you made i» Mllc?
«- and sent to the beloved men, commiffiancrs 'f
j 3 Georgia ?
s. A. Tes ; if is the very woids we spoke.
:c'ry. By the commissioners cf Georgia.
Why did you not fay this face to face to us
796. ' the square, vrhen we spoke to you ?
he part a. The ehiefs would give no other reason t| )a
lurpart- that they chose firft to fit down together in 'court"
igs had cil with then interprets, and reduce their talk to
■eorgia, writing. But that they were ready to give j t ver °
at the bally when digelted at any time, and in the square"
ace. face to face; if the oimmiffioners choose r!,,J
Wen in should do so. '
jant as By the commissioners tf Georgia.
' whole J3 this your usual custom, to carry on talks in
The writing ; or do you alwiy's give them from the
) from voice in the public square ?
after a a. There are no rules reduced to system ; when
>twith- they talk among themselves, it is usual to ta'lk face
which to face, and to fend beads to affilt the memory. But
is the as ye had, in this inttance, a talk to deliver to
e trou- white people, and having our Jinguifters all present
fuffi- I we chose to fend our answer in writing.
> date, j As to the charge of evasive condufl, we might
he ex- I rely on the conclusion of the charge, for an ac
■aaaasrg
fre- we had no w»fh, that the Creeks (hould part ' w ; tfl
f con- j their lands without their own consent. By the m ,„
fives. J ner of stating this charge, one would suppose the
' have gentlemen of Georgia had such a wish, W« told
or,t y> the commissioners of Georgia we were inftr«£
J7, . n an^. Wfre disposed to further the
y had , objeds of their mifficn. We did at one time, ex!
then- pec. they would come forward and make a serious
ifions offer ; and that we, with the funds at our difcre!
t, the j tian, should be able to obtain the object they had
' ' n view ' b y to the Creeks, that tie
. , sum Wa ? an equivalent for the lands, and ai this ac .
head, commodate might have a tendency to remove all
naft • r uf " nde . rftasi l , "g f tWfcn <he parties, that it would
part , be for their mtereft to part with them
We Third and fourth. We refer to the fuoc,i„,end
orgia | ant to answer for himfelf. r
t the j Fifth. Needs no comment.
lltTes m -m' Xth " 7 h ' 8 |s "ninteHigible to us. The com
ilt.es miffionersof the Up,ted States are of opinion, that
been under the old confederation, the authority to make
ito ft e fl eS ""I V Con S rffs » »nd as to the cos-
S to ftrudlion relative to the treaty of New-York, wr
the words ofTUe ueafy, and the Tame are a
' « ai " ">f e »ed in the treaty we have reccntlv eon.
I eluded, 1
°^ C ' rT! S ent,eman commissioners set out with an as-« "
edly .umption of power unwarranted, and close their
°m- mission in like form. Being unwilling to pay a
7th debt eon traded at the request of the state, the*
the protest againftthc payment or liability of payment
ca. of the (ta { e of Georgia. They charge, that «,h«
Is, anfwerof the Indians, one party thereunto, if so
the ,t can be called, has been dictated to thetn in secret
|of couhcil by undue influence." , This the gentlemen.
is in the fame sentence desy themselves. They fay
j " the P ,ta of tf >e chiefs, openly declarer? by Aleck
der Cornels and the Bird Tail King, their speaker.
tu the refufa! to giving up the !an da
. WR *f ul 'y determined on 111 the nation, and that the
wis ehieftcame inftru&ed to abide by that determina
nis tion.
fa- To this declaration we may add from our diary
V e 25th, the folio wing :
" T f hc commiffionew then took a retrofpeaivc
; m V,ew of , what had been said, recapitulated the Bioft
-m material parts and concluded, we hope you wilL
er think seriously on thefc rhiffgs, we have com- a
•m great way to fettle your difficulties, and we wish
nrf you would to-morrow conje and fit down in tern
to per and talk over your affairs with the beloved Ln
d of Georgta. We will hear yon, and arbitrate be
an tween you Your great father has sent us here for
that purpose,"
to w / US f rCHE E MICO replied,
We do not know what more can be said to the
ve ccm-miffioners of Georgia. We have given a de
cided anfwer 1 to the requisition for land. If Geor
■y gia has any other bufinels to introduce, let them
re" .TrTf"' that may k " OW what bufinti's will
iy b r U K- tf Were to talk a R a,n > it would
d j*f t^ e / a ™e thing over again. The talk already
ie fenut ' 8 T tCl m ' nCd VOke ° f he who,e re Prc
from v"'' 31 notO " e ° f thcm «" be difWed
S fl T ,MI n OC ~ Anf proposition on the
0 fori ,? r? A mect thc fame answer ; there.
° fore thls f " h 's done with, and I cannot fee the
Propriety of further conference. I have already
t | v ° e h^°d U | 'h £ ° Ur la 't U ' ere so cont 'a<fted, that
wion wo,dd Vt ® r ° Un t0 hun t u p°n ; and that the
t more land/' "° " '.'° part with
J fu[ S " unnc «.fTary to fay any more on this
. lubjett, but to conclude, that it is remarkable
• SnS? t,,e p ; oteft> ,hat
■ wavs d J °U ther ' a " d the c °ncluGon, drawn,
1 always deltroy the premises.
' ffi ha' T' fhCS f ° r the P ros P erit y of Geor
g» we h ave the honor to he,
(Signed ° h ' edient serVant »»
BENJAMIN HAWKINS,
GEORGE CLYMER,
ANDREW PICKENS, '
His Excellency the Governor 1
of Georui*. r 1•*? 1 .. — - ■- — - ' " 1 Ir«
CONTLW/ITIOK OF £
Foreign Intelligence.
. ' LONDON, June 7. ™
The following extraordinary circumflance is re
ported to have recently occurred at Anghrim, on jn
th; bordere'of the county of Wexford, in Ireland : p l,
A young woman employed in the field fell asleep, vi)
and as (he lay on the grass, an jfp crept down her ft:
throat; on awaking die became vety ink, and for
some time continued very ill, with all the lymptom,
of a rapid decay : a surgeon was as length applied a ,
to, and on communicating to him these eircum f u |
(lances, he gave Iter medicine, and ordered that fhtf ex
should be fttfpended from the cieling, with her head m:
down, as lang as she could bear to remain In that "n
petition j the confeqnence was, the repiile, of a
greenilh yellow colour, about four inches long,
and one and a half in circumference, came from ed
her mouth, attended by eleven young ones. The m
young woman i« uow perfe&ly recovered.
June 8.
Capt. Haley, of the Hope, arrived in the Downs
on she 23d of May, in lat 46. 11. long. >2. 30,
saw seven line of battle ships, a frigate and * cutlet
brig (leering about W. S. W. the cutter brig ly
ing to windward, burning and dellroying several
vessels, one of which blew up a league or two ahead so
of us ; by the explosion I supposed her to be bad
cued with gun-poVer. In lat. 40, 30, .long. 8.
was boarded by a lugger privateer of logons, who fl|
examined our papers (American) and fufFered us ail
to pass. From the number of En'glithmen on board hs
they mull have taken a great many prizes.
Received at ClMrleflon, by the Federalijl, capt. Pratt.
LONDON, June 9. £
Wc are now enabled to Hate some particulars re- ta
fpedling the disagreeable news from India. We in
are not yet in poff-flion of the detaiJ, although we
hive received the Madras Gazettes down to the 9th p
of January-lad, which probably may be precluded
fruiTJ ptrbJt+Hing 6n y fucb (je'ves.
According to private letters received from a jjen- B
tleman high in the company's service in India, we
learn, that the 25th battalion of Sjjpoys, com
minded by Capt. Grant, having been ordered to },;
Batavia, the troops refufed ta embark ; on which oi
the governor-general and council ordered this corps
to be disbanded. The troops refufed to deliver up tr
their arms; the 29th battalion ot Sepoys was or- ct
dered againll them, and at length filed on them, m
by which several men were killed. ' m
Some days after, four other battalions of native if
troops were ordered to Ganjam, on the coast, bat R
refufed to proceed., until the 2Q»h battalion was pu
■ ifhed for having firad on theircompanions. The ; r
native troops remained in this Hate of mutiny when j 0
the latest accounts left Bengal; audit is even re- p
ported, thA the governor had ordered all the 1
Jlery from Dum-Dum (not far diflant from Calcut v '
ta, and where a great quantity of ordnance isuus- al
ally kept) into the fort ef Calcutta, as a place of al
fafety. But we cannot vouch for the tiuth of this v»
latter intelligence. 31
Private advices from India also mention, that 6
feveral^of the Brilifli office™ of 'he company's efta
blifhment wete in a Hate of mutiny ; that an offi
cer of high rank a&s as their president,. and that 4
they have a regular chain of corrcfpondence "
throughout India. We (hall be very happy to be
tocontradidl these rumors, which are truly
alarming, but there is some confutation in know
ing," that the (hip which earned out the regulati a
onsot our government, for placing 'he company's n
officers on the fame footing as the king's, was seen
going up the Bengal tiver, as the Major Pinckney
(American (hip) was coming away. n
June 10. ■ F
The funds, on account of the supposed termina- c.
tton 01 the armistice on the Rhine, of which we I
entertain no doubt, continue to fuffer a daily de
prcllion. Some'bargains were yesterday done at j
one time so low as 60 for the consols in July ; and
the India (lock fell to 195, some odds. .
CORSICA. ;
Ihe Insurgents, by the of Sir Gilbert i
Elhot, have been completely subdued. ■
I he rumors of an engagement on the Rhine, in
which the Auflrinns are said to Inve been defeated,
have greatly contributed to affecl the interest of the
(tockholdejs ; but there is no authority for the de
feat which had been so indurtrionfly circulated ;
and we hope, that the next news conti
nent will present a very different afpeft of affairs.
Philadelphia,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, August 17.
S T 0 C.K S.
Six per Cent. - - .... . jjjy
Three per Cent . 10/7
4 i per Cetjt. - - none for fair. - - 1
Si perCent - . 16,6
Ueferred Six per Cent. ... - to 7
BANK United - - -24 pr. cent.
— Ptniifylvania, ... - 30
— North. America, ... 46 x
Insurance Comp. North-America, 40 per cent. adv.
—— — Pennsylvania, 5 per cent.
Excuance, at 60 days, ... 165 to 166 1-3
[We take pleasure in publishing the following
Decree of the Crown of Poitugal, tianfmitted by
a commercial hottfe ia LKbon, to their correipond
entsin this city, in a letter dated the 7th of June
last, and congratulate our merchants on the advan
tages which are likely to result to the United
Slates, from the ellabliihnvcnt ot a free trade with t
the port of Lisbon."] Daily Adv. t
"I am pleased to eftabliOi Lisbon a sice port, from {
the ift January, 1797, for which purpose 1 haveaa- t
pointed the waie houses and fort of Janquei.a with
the adjacent grounds to make therein the neqe.Tary ac
commodations, for the receiving and depofuing all *
merchandizes and goods whaifoever (excepting for '
. the present sugar and tobacco) as well from foreign I 1
ports as from the national ports on the other fide of I \
the Cape-os-Good-Hope : and such goods, having (aw- c
ful entry, may, at the will of tlx; proprietors, be dif- t
. 'patched for the consumption of the kingdom, on pay- x
ing the competent duties, or may be exported to fo
reign ports, and to national ports on the other fide of
, the Cape-os-Good-Hope, on paying in benefit of ir.y
royal tresfary, and under-the title of prote<flion ind s
de 4 ofit one per cent, of their value according to their t
invoices, signed and f-.vo-n by the mailers cf vefiels or f
their coniigjiees; and there ih-II be free liberty for £lf f,
Ihips to come in and fail again with their cargoes on j
observing the eflablifhed forms: and Ibe eby suppress
all duties, and revoke ail diipofitions, which oppose
and confine the libeity & which constitute the
advantage of the present ellab'ifhmtnt. ''
" In order to animate and promote an ahundar.ee
and concurrence of grain of the firft necessity, I am ri
pleased to declare that every quality of grain atid pro- -
visions which are free from duties on entry, not only |
fhal! enjoy the privilege of exportation, but (hail be
free from the afoi%faid dntv, on making the proper en-'
tries at the refpf dlHve boirds. ''
'■ In cafe the Crown of Portugal fbonlil enter into (
a war (which God forbid) with any power whose I
fubjeifls have property in the said free port, without a
exception of grain or provisions, there fball not be
made on it any arrefl, embargo, fcqueftsr or rep ifal ;
on the contrary, it shall be as free and a": if it
were in their own houses, and they may dilpofeof the
fame as they may judge convenient."
The letter ioclofing the above, fays "it is imagin- ti
ed that the reftri<flion*on «id tobacco will be re- t
moved." e
1.11 111 I
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
NEW YORK, Augufl 16. , j
There were 16 arrivals at this port yeiterday. j
| Thd Sarah, from Barcelona, ought to have given us
| something new, but nothing has been obtained.
Traijlated for the Aigus '
Continual Victories on the Rhine. c
A paflenger in the Dispatch, capt. from
Bourdeaux, kas politely handed in the t'Courrier KepitbUc* t
5 a/«**, of June 19 an<i xo, printed at Paris, from which we t
1 have hastily trar.flated the following t
LATE AND IMPORTANT ARTICLES'.
PARIS, 29 Prairial, June 18
It is generally reported in the Council of 500, that a c
courier is arrived who in the natne of the Emperor re- <
quests an ARMISTICE, and proposes that several iqipor- j
- tant places, such as MENTZ fhali be held as pledges dur- t
? ing the negociatlons. I
It is further added, that the principal difficulties were
obviated this night, and that the PRELIMINARY OP 1
J PEACE is signed betwe.n the Dire&ory and the Envoys
' of *rf~Vn,nna at Pari*.
McJNSJER, (Muynfeld) June 7. ,
Bulletin of the Armies of the Sambre and Meufe, ps Prairial'l9,
. June 7. j
Th« principal part of the division under general Le Fe
vrehas pajfedthe LAHN^ t the remainder is.upon the right J
1 bank, with that of gen. Colaud, as well,as almoit all that <
t of Grenicr.
s Gen Bonnard, with part of this lafl division, and other
-j troops, forming a body of 7to 8000 men, will this night
encircle Ehrenbreitfiein j which he is goirjg to blockade.
Gen. Championnet this night passes the Rhine at the
> mouth of the river Lahn* with his division; by which
means, besides the troops employed before Ehrenbreir- ,
itein, there will be to-morrow oh the other fide oi the
Rhine, 50,000 men, ready to a&.
The divjfions of general Marceau, Poncet, and Ber
nardot, continue to occupy the Hundidruck; they -keep
in check the army of prince Charles, which it is said ha?
just fentconfiderable reinforcements ro that commanded by
prince Wirtemburg, •which is ENURE LY" ROUTED.
The headquarters of the division of Hundfdruck are ad
vanced.
A coiifidcrable body of Auftrians have retreated to Kirn
" and have taken a very advantageous,'pofition ; but they are
f absolutely cut off from the reft of the Aufcrian army, with
s which they can have no further communication. The}
are so far surrounded that they will soon be obliged to lay
down their arms for want of iuccours and provif.o s. „
Gen. Ernouf, who from NieuXyied, returns to
morrow (June 8) to eftablilh himfelf. In the dffaur near
- Nicuwied. I informed you that he took from the wierray
t 4 pieces; I was mi ftak'en, for there were 12 ; besides this
c wc have found in the \vhich have fallen in ou*
hinds 13,000 quintals of flour, 300,000 bundles of hay,
and 30,000 bufhelsof oats.
y BONN, June 9.
General Bonnard, who has the command of >he block
ade of received counter orders the mo
-8 merit he arrived at Huningu m.
Tlie flefign ©f his expedition was, to seize upon all
the enemy's posts on the banks of the Rhine, and he
y has fulfilled it with as much presence as bravery, Hf
now returns -to his cantonments in the environs ot
Bt>nn and Cologne, while the two battalions which he
*- commanded have joined the division of GrenieT near
r e Ehrenbrcitltein..
p June 10.
at are informed, that head-quarters are to be tranf- I
, ferred to Neuwied.
IU We have taken at Neuwied a very considerable ma
gazine of forage ; another of every kind of provisions
at Hackenbourg—a third of flour at Montaubauer j
rt in (bort, a fourth and the bed furnilhed of the whole,
at Limburg.
j n This moment the news arrives, that the army of the
J R! ine and Mefelle hasbegun its operation with no less
' vigour than that of the 3ambre and Meufe, and that it
had advanced as far as the heigths of Frakenthal.
e " JARDIN, Editor.
ti- PARIS, Jdne 20.
The council of 500 waited yesterday for ttte melTage
- from the Direcflory, which was expedfed would h.we
announced peace with the Emperor. The mellage did
not come ; but this expectation was not without cause.
Every thing induces us to believe, that we (hall not
long be miltaken.
By the schooner Difpa'ch, Capt. Dndfworth, in 48 da< »
from Bordeaux, we have received Paris papers to the fi'.h
June, four days than before received. They contain
no aitic'es of impcrtance.
We have translated a few articles, haying received papers
at a i»te hour.
The Austrian accounts of on the Rhine, arc
among the moll material.
'• The artny of Gen. Klrber is advanced as far as Lahn. It
is said that Ehrenbreitllein is already blockaded.
From the Gazette Francaife — and
ig 16th June, 1796.
<y Tianflated for the Daily Advfrtiser.
d- Extradl of a letter from the Head-Quarters of the
ie Archduke Charles, at Mayence, the sixth of
n- June.
:d " The battles which were fought yesterday and
:h the day before,in the environs of Lanteriek, a (Irong
town about eight leagues ftom Dctix Pont, will,
m form an epoch in the annals of warfare, on account
?' of the bravery and obstinacy displayed by our troops,
'k General Jourdan attacked us upon our centre
jj with a boldness which seemed to aflure him vitlory.
3r Our troops repulsed him twice with considerable
•n I loss ; he retufned a third time to the charge and
as I with such impetuoufity, that our troops, in spite
v- of their lirm'refiftance were obliged to retieat ; this
' they effedted with good orderto Oppenheim, V7in
waller, and Mayence in order to preserve a commu
o£ nication with Field Mardial Coui t Wurmfer.
y We le irn at this moment, that the centre of his
id army has been attacked by three Itrong ipoluiuns of
ir the French, who have marched from the valley of
Rupetfweflfc* Anvei!l--r, e -numan-W hv Ge*- SI
Murtau, in pcrfon ;hut a« the principal pofrion i
Kaiferlautern, Itat'iics from Worms defended
by the brave General Merzaro*. appear 1 ! imprcgn .
!>V, we believe they will not there have the fame
fnceeii. v
The number of prisoners and wounded which ar
rive here, prove, that in the affairs of the 4th and J"
sth, thelols has been eopfidtrable on both tides. B)
the tirlt opportuniry you (hall have the-detaiU. '
, The French not content v\ i h having made them- Bi
selves malters of Lantern, McfTeiiheim, 1 Creutfnach, thl
G-mmerlheim & Kimmerem, a city upon the Su
H'.nr.dfnj.ck, ai-.nCt 5 le agues from Ehrenbreitfteii.
and the pofitiona have advanced by a ou
forced march,and >;tve out that they will again
round opr attty."
BONN, Jime 6. ' W
" As I ir.fotroed you yclterdiy the French have
made thiltifelves mafieis of Aldenkirchen, and, the
tormidable intrenchments which the Auftria»s had
ere£ted on the heights. They were attacked the o
4th of June by the divifionaiy General Colaud.—
The enemy fought wit h the greatest obstinacy, and C j
the 1 vi£tory was liifputed from nine in ihe morning
till one in the afteinous. In the mean time the dc
Prince de Wurtemburg had feat an officer of the
huflars with orders to abandon that poliuon, but
the officer and dii'pat Jics fell into the hands of the
French. The enemy fought in conltant expeftati of
on of receiving a reinforcement, till they found them A
selves furroundej by the republican troops, then
they attempted to open themselves a pafTage, and
twice they were repulsed with immense slaughter— Li
they finally surrendered after having seen a vafl
number of their comrades fall. Among the slain tl
are a lieutenant colonel and two captains. Yelter- at
day afternoon there arrived here near two thousand
prrfoners, among them are 39 officers, the mod of G
them of the regiment of Jordes. The Colonel of n
tl*t regiment iscxpedted to arrive today with the B
relt of tli/ prisoners. P
COLOGNE, tßth Prairial.
A courier" an ived this morning informs us, that ~
the left wing of the army of the Sambie and the 1
Meufe, pursued its victorious march to the right G
bank of the Rhine. The following is the official [j
account' which confirms the capture of the Autuian f c
entrenchments at Aldeskirchen.
Head Quarters at Lin/., 17th Prairial, F
4th year of the Republic.
Bonnarde, General of D'vilion, to the General of
Brigade, DaviTnot, at Cologne*
" I hallen to a> quaint you my dear comrade with v
the contents of a letter which 1 have rti is moment n
received from the Etat Major »>f General Klebtr, c
that ill the engagement of yeflerday the heights o( b
Aldenkirchen were turned with Inch rapidity, that
all the artillery wkn h defended them were taken, "
together with a battalion of Jordis 1500 ttrong, as
also its colours, the colonel and many other prison j
ers, and »hat the route of the enemy, was unexam t
pled. We know very well that our brave army will i
in its turn gain as brilliant viiiories as thole of *
Italy. *" 1
Vive la Repuliiqne. f
BONNARDE. |
An armiftief ;s to be concluded with the
King of Naples, who has sent the Duke de Pigna- C
lelli, as an enyoy to Paris, to obtain peace. It is t
not fai 1 how much the armiilice will colt the King '
of Naples.
We are affined that two millions in gold, had ar- 1
'ived from Italy, and that in forwarding them, j
Gen. Buonaparte has written, that he will take u
pOn hirufelf to pay all the bills of exchange of the 1
'overnment. , " 1
They write from Er,gland of the ift of June, that
they are preparing for the Pretender of France, the '
Royal Palace of Kensington, about 4 leagues from '
London. t
GAZETTE OF THE VNITKD STATES MARINE LIST.
PHILADELPHIA, 17. '
Ship Camilla, Williarnfon, from Philadelphia, is ar
rived at Dover.
The ship not loft on the Nore, as stated"
in a Charleflon paper*" ihe drove ashore in the Downs,
but got off agais.
A fliip was in fight of the Fori this morning.
A latter I rum Cape Francois dated July 29, mentions
the arrival there of a fraall fquadrpn from Rochefort, un
der the commafed of capt. Barney. Alio the arrival of
the brig Sally, Jackson from this port.
Captain Barney failed 48 hoars aher hit arrival.—This
news may be depended on.
>he brig Neutrality, King, is arrived at Hifpaniola
from this poi t.
ARRIVED,
Schooner Greyhound, Daniel, North Carolina j
Sally, Williarnfon, Currituck 5
Commerce, Faucett, North Carolina 5
Gardner, Wilmington N. C. 13
Betfi?y, Lawfon, St. Thomas 17
Industry, Green, Virginia 13
Sloop Fanny & Catharine, Slack, do. 4
Lydia & Betsey , Ward, do. 17
Salem, Elkins. ~ do. 5
Morning Star, Sunbridge, do. j
VESSELS AT >'ORT MIFFLIN. ' "
Brig Fame, Churn fide, Jcrem-e j
Florida, Woodmaif, Havanna I
Seven Brothers, Herring, Jamaica
r Commerce, Reynolds, Jacquemel
Betsey, Hunt, Port-au-Prince
Schooner Minerva, Coltu, ' Havanna
Polly, Cronan, Dominique
3edty, Paddock, St. Thomas
Chaining Betsey, Lark, Antigua
Sloop Eliza, Nicbolfon, St. Croix
Mary, Taiem, do.
Sally, Watts, Port-au-Prince I
Arrivals at' New-Tori—sluguji 16. 1
Ship Plato, Buck, Jamaica '
Brig Sarah, Douglas, Barcelona
Two Sillers, Stran, St. Bartholomews
Eliza, Mil er, I St. Croix 1
James, Trowbridge, do.
Fox, Flower, Jeremie '
Industry, Smith, Jamaica '
Eox, Colden, do.
Marietta and Huldir, Savage, Anguilla-
Hull Packet, Defbon, Oporto
Schooner Nymph, Clark, Lancevaux
Vulpes, Dillingharn» Curracoa
, Dlfpatch, Dodfworth, Beurdeaux
Hiram, Beekman, St. Bartholomew s
Lucretia, Betts, Hifpaniola
Americana, , Charleston
Betsey, Clark, Gonaivei
/ J /
Sloop , Clr-leftoii
Trimmer, Bclfoia, V -& vrg
Courtney, Peterfkridge, Newfcuuoiand
Ship M'Gilvra is life arrived at Auitterdam* from
$d4timorc.
Snbw, Camilla, is arrived fafe at Halifax.
Brig Freeman is at St. Thomas's.
Capt Dudfvvorth failed from Bourdeaux on the 28th of
June. 10 puffer gsrs came in theDifj ateh. Is* lat. 40, ao>
long 62, 30, spoke ship .Columbia, *?earfe, from thin
j-Crtfor Amftcid rA, oVit 8 days—-all well
Arrived last evening, the febooner Hiram, Captain J.
Buchanan, in 13 days from St, B*rtholemews, and fpokft
the following vMfMs or* his paflfirge :
Auguit 3 Bjißetky, belonging to New-London, from
Surinam, * 2 day* afc't, aU
August 6 HngU;tifus, ijom New* York to Hifpantola,
out 20 days.
Augutt 9. Hrie Unit*', froitfi St Uarfcholernews, bound to
New-York, q day's olit.
"Capt. B»>char\an Jetc from 10 to 12 fail of American vef
feis at St Bartholomews.
3 he it.ip Si illy of was at St. Baitholemews taking
in a cargo for Europe; Ca,,t. B could not recoiled her par
ticular port of deftmation.
Captain Dcfhoo, ol th<* HuTl Packet, ,68 days from
Of «ito> (pftkr the foHowing or* his paYTzge :
Junr 59. ft, oke the biig Jofcph, Caprain Babcock., from
Chatlcfton, bund to the coast of Guin.ea, 20 days out, lat.-
,38, long. c 5.
July ii. A Swedish brig from Gibraltar, bound to Phila>
deiohia, 30 days out, long. 53, 30 *
July 30. Schooncr Urn, Cap ain Lylley, from Kenne
beck to the Weft-Indians, out 10 clays lat. 39, 32, long
6a> 30.
Capt. Doddfworth left at Bordeaux, the ftiio Small wood,
of Philadelphia, Captain Johnson, and a number of other
American vcflels, nafnes not rec»lle&sd.
1 he Ruby, Capt- Lloyd Jones, of a-nd for Philadelphia,
failed in company witty Capt. Daddlworih.
Captain Beth, cI the fchoo.ier Lucre ia, 21 days from
Leoganc, left there the following American veflels :
£N. B. Those marked with the letter i are for trial, bein£
sent in by French privaieos, or their barges they aie au
tr»orifed t take all Americans bound toil. Mack's or Poit
an-Pi 1 nee J
Names of Vrffeh and Majliri, and these for Trial. , •
Sch'r Regulator, Standwood, from New-Y.,(k; brig
Glasgow, Codwife, from do. 1 ; Chariot.e, King, do.
lliup Nancy, Small, Phi adelphia, T ; fl*op sincerity.
Boyd, do. T; fljop Huggins, do. T( fl op Dol
phin, Moray, do. Triton, Flinn. do T;. brig Expe
rience, Houfiftn. do. Tj fct.oonrr Bfice, Robeir, ,jo» Ts
Ichnoner FeiicuyT7"®' ce > do - brig Indullry, MifTcy, fial
limore, T; tchooner Hannah, Philips, do. fcnooiicr Nancy,
1 uttle, Charlcftoft'; 'cti'i , Andrews, do. Aictae, Mann,
George-l own, b. C. T; brig Eli/a, VVhitefield, WiUning
ton, N. C." T; fioop Joanna Hunt, Providence, R.I. . I
fl'op Sally, Smith, do. Tj feb'r Ann, G lbs B -Its Tj
feb'r Jano, do. T; fl Britannia, Young, N. Yarmoutn, f.
From the log book of the ship Atalanta, Capt. Iloi
brook, arrived here on Sunday, 8o days from Li
verpool.
AugiJt 5. —Saw a (hip, having a signal of distress—
bore away for her. We hodted out our yawl, and
went on board - (he proved to be'the 'Htue, of Bultj
more, that failed from Amsterdam May 7, undtr the
command of St. John Farrier, with- 350 palTrngers,
bound to Baltimore.
v\ hen they had been a few week l ; a? fca, a number
of them was attacked with ACQiitagicus diftetrcper, of
which the Captain died in a few ilavs. <it the time
we boarded her, there were i'even ie'ad, the firifc and
second mate, and many of the palfengers confiued to
(heir birth?, and only three har.rls left capable of work
ing the veifel ; tbey had then loft by this fuknefs up
wards of 100 persons, and every thing exhibited the
utmost *li|trel«.' —Captain H. a man on board, to
3 Tift j n f akirg her into the most convenient port, and
fuppliedthem with some stores, which they were much
in need of
• July 29. —Spoke the brig Peggy and Polly, from
Cadiz to Boston, 4odaysojt, lat. 40, 24, long. 67 —
two days before, carried away her main- matt, foretop
mafl, boats, &c. in a squall. r
Augult 4. At 10, A. fpbke the ship Governor
Mifflin, John Love, master, from Philadelphia, bound
to Leghorn, la-. 39, 38, long. 64, 30, out 6 days,
bound to Leghorn 2 —all well.
August 9. - Spoke the ship Fame, of and from Phi
ladelphia, bound .0 London, 6 days out, lat. 38, 5,
long. 7«.
Atrguft 13.—Spoke the ship Ganges, Capt. Green,
from Philadelphia, bound to Bengal, 4 days out, lat.
lat. 38, 46; lon». 72— Ml '.veil.
Arrivals at Bnjlon, dugufl Igl
Ship Goverm.r Bowdom, Oaks", "L.fbon, 47 days.
July 24, lat. 38, 27, leng. 52, spoke schooner Eliza,
Arnold, 11 days from Philadelphia, for Malaga. Aue;.
5, hit. 41, 43, I >ng. 64, lpoke fh'p President, Boynton,
3 days from Wifcaffct for Liverpool.
Brig Columbia, Lovell, Liverpool, 68 June
7, offScilly, spoke the Hunter, Nye, 40 days from
■ New-York,for Gliernfey. June 15, lat. 48, 23, long.
18,13, spoke the Joseph Stone, of Portland, 11 dayn
from Liverpool for Philadelphia. July 25, off Isle of
Sables, spoke Diana, Brown, 35 day 3 from Marble
; head ; had carried away her top mafls—but lud erec
. ted new ones. Aug. 4, spoke brig Jane, 24 hours from
Portland for Liverpool.
Ship Minerva, Eldndge, St. Übes, 49 days. Left
1 there, just arrived, brig Dolphin, Kipley, of Boston.
BngKaty Rider, St. Übes,-47 days. Left there,
ship Sarah, Doggett, of Boston, to fail foan. July 23,
lat. 40, 30, long. 51, 29, spoke ship Lury, Smith/; days
from Salem, for. Madeira. July 24, lat. 41, 5, long.
S3> *5> spoke ship Virginia Packet, 7 diys out, for
n- fU c y 3 r' ljt ' 42) 5 " 6 ' lon ?- 6l ' r ftip
Wilcaflet, Stetson, ? days from WifcaCTet for Liver
pool. Sailed in company with brig , Voax, for
Boston.
. Aug "'V Arrived b'rig Hope, Voax,'St. Übes, jo
days. The Fortitude Cl.ft, for Boston, to fail soon af
te)-. July 2J, lat. 41, 12, long. 54 , ,6. lpoke fliip Polly
and Harriet, Abrams, 35 days from Cadiz for Boston.
Ju.y 24, fell in wirh the wreck of a vgflll, «hich from
. many preceding circumstance» they judged had blown
op. J u [y 2 7> lat. 43, long.'6o, 45, spoke ship Mary,
Jones, of ;i days from St. Übes. July -i,
[»'• 43 >, J, long. 62, to, spoke fchr. Pro /idence, a Mar
blehead fifterman ; had fprunk her foremaft danger
ously. 0
CMAULESI ON, August 9.
A gentleman in this citv received bv yefierday's port
a remittance of four thousand dollars', from the com
mittee of the citizens of who opened a sub
scription in that city for the relief of the fufferers here
bv the fire of the 13th of June
- - " .i-m
india Goods at Auction.
ON Friday next, at 10 o'clock in the morning, will be
fold at auction, at No. 56 South Front-street, about
to bales of India white Goods, entitled to the drawback,
consisting of—
Lo»g Cloths
Baftas
Gurraha
Emerties
CoiTaes
Hum hums
Tanjibs
Mfill Mulls.
Edward Fox, Au&V.iPI * - , '
Lands of the United States
""Treafury Department,
Auoujl 8, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby givers,
IN puj-fuance of an a«st of Congress palled on the 18th
day of May, 1796, entitled " an a& providing " fc(r
thefalcof the Lands of the United States, in the territory
north-weft of the <iver Ohio, and above " the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the Quarter Townships of land
ddcribcd in the annexed schedule, lying in the seven rang
es of townships whieh were surveyed in pursuance of an
ordinance of Congress, passed on the twentieth day of
r*£ay, in the year one tfeoufand seven hundred and eighty
five, will be exposed for sale at PUBLIC VENDUE, at
the Merchants'Coffee-Houfe in Philadelphia, on the 4th
day of January next, and thenceforward from day today,
'until the tenth day of February ensuing, unless the said
Quarter townships fba.ll be sooner fold, in the manner and
on the terms and conditions hereinafter mentioned : viz.
'Ift. The said quartet townships fliall be fold to the
hrgheft bidder, but no sale can be made for less than two
•jiollars per acre of the quantity of land contained in such
quarter township.
dd. The hi'gheft bidder as before mentioned, must de
posit a l, the time of sale, one, t ventieth part of the pur
chase money, in the hands of the Treasurer of the United
States, which will be ferfcited if a moiety of the sum bid,
including the said twentieth part, shall not be paid within
thirty days from the time of sale.
3d. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchase-mo
ney in the manner beforementioned, the purchaier will
be entitled to one year's credit for the remaining mo.'ety \
and shall receive a certificate describing the quarter town
ship purchased, and declaring the sum paid on account,
the balance remaining due, the time when such balance
"becomes payable, and that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not then
paid ; but if the said balance shall be duly by
paying the fame to the Treasurer df the United States,
tjie purchaser or his aflignee or other legal representative,
shall be entitled to a patent for the said land, on 1m pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
endorfedupon the certificate. But if any purchaser shall
make payment of the whole of the purch&fe-money at the
time when the payment of the firft moiety is dire&ed to
be made, he will be entitled to a deduction of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to be
giveti; and hi* patent shall be immediately ifTued.
- -€HVISM -trader my hand nt -Philadelphia-, the day
and year aboyementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
SCHE* DULE
Of Quarter-Townships to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
suance of the 6th feiSion of an l a& of Congress palled on
the 18th day of May, 1796.
* £
Uh • —
6 ■ A .S. S 1
£I= < a j
j i £ H /
o o -2 <u
* <1 6
►5 it / 2 .5
tZ •' K , a
6 & la
-I. „
2 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
3 5 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
7 South East 5120
North East j 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480 V
9 South East 5120
Nqrth East 51 20
South Weft 5120
North Wefi 5120
; 20,480
11 South East' y 120
North East 5 120
; South Weft 5120
North Weft
5 120 j
20,480
-4 4 South East j 120
North East, y 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120 I
20,480
6 South East 5120
North East 5120
SputhWeft j 120
North Weft
5 120 I
20,480
8 South East 5129
North East 5120
5120
. North' Weft 512°
20,480
> 10 South Eaftj 5120
North Eaftj 5120
Sonth WeftJ 5120
North Weft j 5120
\ ! 20,480
12 South East ! 5120
North East; 5120
South Weft y 120 j
North Wed 5120
20,480
5 3 South East 4602
North East 4654
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
'9>49 6
5 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft: .5120
; — ; 20,480
6 9 South Eaftj 5120
North East] 5120
South Weft; 5120
North Welt 5120
1 1 20,480,
m oi • —
.2-
<u O £3
seC . £
i .9» j> «g'j°
v; S 4j "S
I £ 2 < I s
O L* i- J- <-
K . ~ -5
r* o
5 11 South East 15 120: I
; North Eifftjy 1201
iSottth Wefi yl2oj
Nortli Weft 5120
, 20,480
13 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft y I 20
North Weft 51 20
20,480 |
6 4 Sooth East 4630 j
North East 4620 ,
South Weft j 120 1
North Weft 51 20
19,490 j
6 South East 4730
North East 47 1 £
Sonth Weft 5 120
North Weft y I 2g|
19,63 J
8 South East 5120
;North East 5r 20
South Weft 5120
>North Weft 5120
| 20,480
10 South East 5120
North Eallj 120 1
South-Weftiy 120
North Wcll:5120
20,480 1
12 South East 5 120
: • North East 5120
South Weft j 120
North Weft 5 12° 1 h
— 20,480 1
14 South East y 120
North East y 120
South Weft 5120 *
North Weft 5
120 1 I '
20,480
7 3 South East y 120
North Eaftsl2o
South Weft y 120
North Weft 5 120, , it
20,480 :
5 South East y 120 '
North Eafl yi2o
South Weft y 120
North Weft y I 20|
20,480
7 South Eaft|yi2o
North Eaft|yi2o
South Wefi y 1 20
North Weft y 120
20,480
9 South East y 120
North East y 120
South Wefi y 120
North Weft y 120
5 20,480
11 South East y 120
North East y 120
South Weft y 120
North Weft yi 20
20,480
13 South Eafty;i2o
North East y 120
South Weft y 120 ,
North Wefi y 120
20,480 i
iy South fiafl yi2o
North Eafl 5120
South Wefi y 1 2G
jNorth Wefi 5 120
j 20,480 !
NOTE.
THE quantities Lands in the several townships be
fore mentioned^ arc excluf;ve of the Sections reserved by
the United States. The aggregate quantities in the fcvc
ral townships, have been afcei taired survey ; but
the quantities in the quarter townships, have been no
otherwise afcertalned than by calculation.
No. 134. ;
Diftr;£fc of to wit.
BE it Remembered that on the 23d day of May, in the
twentieth year of the Independence of the Uni.ed States
of America, Francis Shallus, of the said diftrift h th ,
depolited in this office, thetitle of a book, the whcrt#f 1
be claims as propi ietor in tne words following to wit * i THE
DISAPPOINTMENT, or THE FORCE Or CRtDU'LI
TY, a new Comic Opera in three a&s, by Andrew Barton,
ETq, 2d edition reviled and corretled with large additions by
the author."
" Enchanting gold ! that doll conspire to blind,
" Mans* erring judgment and misguide the mind,
tl In search of thee, the wretched worldling goes,
" Nor dangers fears, tho' fiends of night oppose."
In conformity to the aft of the Congress of the United
States, entitled " Anotlfor the encouragement of learning, ,
by securing the copies of maps,charts and Hooks to the authors
and proprietor* of such copies during the times therein men
tioned. .Samuel Caldwell, Clk Dift Penn.
The above Optra will be publified in the conrfe of two or three
axels. July 22
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Eft ate,
Galled rivit re n ham, ; n the
townfnip of Upper Derby, andcountyof Delaware,
7 t-l miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
new Wcfternroadf containing 230 acres of excellent llmd,
45 of which are good watered mesdov/, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of the firft quality. There are
on the premilts a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellare under the whole, ; with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a lirgc frame barn, flablcs,
and other convenient buildings; a i'moke-hoafe and ftanej
good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The Marc allin clover, except thofc immediately
under t"d!agi, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con-
for grazing.
The ttuaiion is pleafcnt and healthy, and from the high
cj.tivßlioacf the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
v. mjtv to the c lt y, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
country feat.
parr of the cftate of Jacob Karman,
decealtdj and offered for laic bv
Mordecai Lewis,
Oil. 9. eo.] Surviving Executor.
! Philadelphia, We r uChe'ier, % ,/(burgh,
Lancafler, Tork and Frcdcrich-toiun
'STAGES.
THE proprietors of the above Stage*, return their best
thanks to their friends and the punli: in general, for
the encouragement received in this hnc of bufinefs,and beg
leave to inform the public, that they are determined to run
their stages through from Philadelphia to Lancafler in
one day, commencing on Tuesday, the I4tn July instant,
in the following manner, —viz. A Stage will set out on
that day at 4 6V!ock in the morning from the house ol
George Weed, Market-flreet,* Philadelphia, and run by
the way of WeftcAeftcr and Strafburgh, arrive in Lancaf-
fame evening, 011 Friday morning run to right s
ferry and exchange paftehgers with the York and Fredcj
ick-toWn stage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat
urday, and on Monday mornu g following, at 4 o clock,
said ii&ge will set ou: from the fnid Gscygc Weed's, Phila
delphia, and arrive at J/ancafler the Tame evening, on
Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out from the hoiife
of Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia
the fame evening, and will commence again on 1 hurfday
morning following, and conu'nuc'every week—The price
for each pallcngrr front Philadelphia to Lancaster is three
dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three quar
ters, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like funis for
150 weight baggage, with the usual allowance of 14 lb.
gratis to each passenger, and 5 pence a mile for all way
paflengers. 3 0— '§4 W
John Reilly,
George Weed.
TAKE NOTICE,
THAT application will be maiW'or the renewal of
the following certificates, ifiueifby Joseph Nourfe, ;
Rcgifler of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Grif '
wold, E.fq. of Norwich, Conneflidut —
I certificate, fix per cent domeflic flock, No. 13,907
—dated the 17thDecember, 1795, bearing interest from
thefir'ft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 6J-100 dol- ! J
1 ditto, three per cent, domestic flock, No. 10,682 j ,
—dited December 16, 1795, bearing interest from the ,
firftdayof January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dollars.
1 ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th j
December, 1795, bearing inler-eft from the firft Jann- :
ary, 1801, for 798 83-106 dollars. !
Said certificates are fugpofgd ta l»a»o Uegtt laflLor <
[lolen in this citv forne time in December or Janua:y 1
last. ' 1
JOSEPH THOMAS, i
No. 59, North Front-street.
Philadelphia, July 21, 1796. d6w.
i
Washington Canal Lottery,
N°. I. I
WHERFAS the State of Maryland has authorifad .
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand, |
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting j
a Canal through the City of Wafhingtpn, from th Po :
tomacto theEaftern Branch Harbour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I. (
Viz -l Prize of 20,000 dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn 7
Tickets, each j *> ooa 3J,°00 J
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
20 ditto ioo 2,000
55 'ditto jo 2,750 ;
5 7jo ditto 12 69,008 I
To be raised for the Canal, 26,150
jßjo Prizes, 175,000
11 Blanks, not two to a prize. 4
17 joo Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
s£s° The Commiflioners have taken the Securities re 1
quired by the aforefaid a<st for the pundtual payment ef '
the prizes. '
The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without '
delay, as soon a$ the Tickets are'fold, of which timely '
notice will be given, '
Such prizes as are not .demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finiftied, (hall be considered as relinquilhed for
th« bsnefitof the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, e/D
LEWIS DEBLOJS,
GEORGE WALKER,
WM. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW, 1
JAMES BARRY. 1
City of WafhingtoH, Feb. 11. 5
■- " ' (
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. !
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an a£l of Congress of the United ]
Slates ot America, pa {Ted at Philadelphia, the 28th day
of May, 1796 ;1 laying duties on Carnages, for the convey
ance of persons, and repealing tht- former for that pur- 1
pose.—'{"hat there be levied, colle&ed arid paid, upon 1
ail carriages for the conveyance of persons, which shall be
kept by or for any person, for his 01 her own use, or to let
out to hire, or for the conveying of paUcngers, the several du
ties and rates folio wing, to wit.
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, I 2 dolt. !
upon every Post Chariot, 12 dols*
upon every Poit Chaise, 12 dols.
upoa every Phaeton, with or without top, g dols
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panne i work above,
with blinds, glafles or curtains, 9 dols.
upon four wheel carriages, having framed posts and
topi withJfteel fpsings, 6 dols.
upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron 1
fpiings or jacks, 3 dols.
upop curricles with tops, 3 dols.
uponchaifes with tops, 3 dols.
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or iron springs,
3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carnages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheel carriage, having framed posts
and tops, and refliug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
Golleflors of the Revenue of the firft survey of the
Diftriftof Pennsylvania, yill attend dailfyurtil the 30th day
of September next, tor the purpose of receiving the duties on
Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or Saffafras street, in the City,
of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Efq in the
County of Montgomery; and at the houfe : of Abraham Du
bois, Efq, in the County of Burks; of which all perfonspof
fefied of such Carriages are desired to take notiee.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiii
tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to them ; one li
cence for carrying on the bufihefs of retailing of Wines, in a
lefsquantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one
licence for carrying on the bufincfs of retailing Spirituous li
quors in less quantities than 20 gallons, at the fame time and
at the fame places, by t-he officers legally authorized to grant
fuck licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeftor of the Revenue of the firft survey
of the dittri&of Pennsylvania.
Office of Infpeftion,at ) 3'©
Philadelphia, 21ft July, 1736. 5
City of Wafhmgton.
SCHEME Vthe LOTTERY, No.II,
FOR THE ;wm vr r/i'£
L FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent > 20,000 dollars, 3c >
dwelling-house, 5 cacti 3p ; tjpO, are j ' <io °
1 ditto 15,000 & caiio 25,000 40,009
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5, oo» & cash 5,000 lo,ooa
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of io,oo&
2 do. 5,000 each, are, * io,o(jo
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
200 do. 50 10,000
400 do. 25 - 10,000
1,000 do. 20 - 2*o,ftoo
15,000 do. 10 * « 150,00 a
16,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eijht Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantify 0 f
Tickets;the pri-zt of4o,ooo'dollarswillbethe last drawn
ticket, and the last but one :
And approved notes, seCuring payment ih either money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not lei's than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will' afford ah elepit specimen of the pri
vate buildings to-be ereiStcd in th * cy of Waffiington—-
Two beautiful designs are already lelesiSfcd for the entire
front? on two of the public squares ; from these prawings
it is proposed to ereel two centre and four corner buildin< s,
as f®oh as possible after this lottery is fold, and to contey
thetn, when compile, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fcherne for the Hotel Lottery.
! A nctt dedu<3ion'of 1 five per ceht. will be made to difray
the neccfiary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part of' the fund intended for the National
Uuiverfity, to be erected within the city of Wafliineton.
The Drawing will cdntimence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prizes Will bepayablein thirty days
after it is finifhad ; and any priz&s for which fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve-months aftef ths
drawing is closed. -',rr to be conftdered as triyen
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year frorii the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bohds given as Security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
i mount ot the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiffibners alfiflc'd'in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requeftcd to undertake this ardudus'tafk
a second time on behalf of the public ; tl fufficient num
ber of thefc having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends ta a National University and the other federal ob
jeiftsmay continue to favor the design.
By .accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are assured that the
drawing will speedily commenee, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of •
til* tickets, lias rendered the Itior: suspension i«)difpcnfable a
SAMUEL BLODGET.
„§ t Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of»
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilmah, Boston ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Welli,
Cooper's Ferry. co
FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD.
"O AN away from the fableriber living near Church
i\ Hilly Qu-ep Ara>»-C<ata.aty: in jjsad*.
about the fir it of January last, a black negro m?.n, named
Sam, about thirty years of agie, 5 feet 8 or 9 inches high,
has a crooked finger oh one hand, and one leg and f coif
(mailer than the other, somewhat round-fliouldered, his>
cloathirig unknown. Any person who wfl! fecitfc er
bring said fellow home,{jt> that 1 itiay get'him again Ibali
have the above reward with reaionable charges.
WILLIAM JACOBS.
June 4. , « *iaw2ra,
Diftrift of Petrnfy ivaiiia : to wit :
BE it remembered, that on the sth day of Aujjuft, ii
the twentieth year of the independence of the Unit
ed States of America, William Cjb4ett, of the said
diftruSl, hath depofite j in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he clainjs as proprietor, in the words
following: to wit.
" The life and adventures of Pdter PorcHpine ; with a
" full and fair account of all his authoring tranfa'ctions:
" ,being a sure and gaide for all enterprifiif?
" young men who wish- to make a fartune by writing
" pamphlets, by Peter Porcupine himfelf.
" Now, you lying varlets, you flva.ll fee hoiv a plain
f tale will put you down." Shakespeare.
in conformity to theadl of the Congress of the United
States, entitled " an ail for the encouragement of learn
ing, by securing the copies of maps, charts and books to
the authors and proprietors, during the times therein
mentioned. Samuel 'Caldwell.
Clerk of the Dift'i i£l of Pennsylvania.
AUg. 8
"Now Publijhtvg by the Printer,
At No. 3, Lsetitia Court, delivering to Subscribers,
and to be had atfhe different Book-Stores in this City,
Berriman & Co's
CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the Old and Naw
Testaments and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes and re
erences. An Index ;or an account of the mod remarkable
paffagesin the old and new Tcftament, pointing to the places
wherein they happened, and to the places of scripture where
in they are recorded. —A Table of Time.—Tables of scrip
ture mealures, weightfcand coins : with an
ing the method of calculating its measures©! surfaces
hitherto wanting in Treatises on this futjtd. A Table of Ojues
and Conditions of men.
condition s
l* The size of this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO,
printed on a beautiful new type, and good paper, made part
icularly for it, It will'be ptfblifhed in Numbers, not to ex
ceed 3c, one of which will be delivered weekly to sub fori ti
ers, at a quarter of a dollar. Those fubferibers who prefer
t receiving the work cornptcte, will be attended to by Ggni/ying
the fame on any of the fubfeription papers in rhe Bookstore*
■ in this city.
2» There will be an advance in the prtcc» on Xabfcfibiog
after the fnft of August next.
3. In the Work will be given an elegant
Frontifpiecc—From an Engraving of the celebrated jartilt*
Grignion.
Be r r 1 man & Co. gratefully acknowledge the very liberal
encouragement they havemet with; and havereaf6nto believe
, that the execution of their edition will anlwer every expec
tation, and Jpcakits own praift.
May 26 goi&Mt'
* -♦ — ;
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119 —
CHFSN V T-S TtIEET.
[Pricc Dollars per