' y- . * i i•• ■ , . - 1 . i
#4ettt I*6l HtltteuStates, te Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
THURSDAY EVENING', ?Uf.r «8, >7*. , *"
Nvmbex i2i 2. j — r-n-nr i htity DM CARRIAGES. , Tore Let. ;
Advertisement.
On Saturday the 3 cth i.A w.llbe fcld 'at public auc
tion
The neW £ hi ß T Y
t-v UR.TH E N 10 tons, with her 0
B r.iafts and spars » delivered by ,|£
iuy. h.ve
is a faithfully bu.lt vessel of*» dos , he
materiali, onejhoufand do.laro w.U be
purchaftf at the time of We, and Ur , ; u
CI --4it wil! begivsii of 3, 6> 1 Hank of —r —
W.a be secured by notes negotiable at the Bank
With approved endorsers.
IOHN MANDtiVILLE, 1 tA/e>'fir ttt n_
GEORGE CLEMERS.TON, & \<&*.
ELISHA C. DICK. J 0 Co " gj
*3 d t ~, 7? «&s
~ TA K E NOTICE, ne<
rrhat application «iU te made for the renew* of voya ;
T the following certify, iflwd by J f
Register of the Treasury, 111 thf name of 1 e Ja
—dated the 1 7 thDccember, 1795. bearing from
the firft day of January, W* *©<
, ' tb VZo tliVe- ptr cent, domdtic flock, No. »*.«. jO
-dated December 16, 1795> b - ari HS ,nt And
firft day of Jafnrrrjv iaai.f^'994
ilolen in this city some time m December or Jan aa...
hft ' JOSEPH THOMAS, Jf
No. 59, North Front-fti eet. tor ,
Philadelphia, July 11, Ji
•~T-- ••• for Barbados,
. - The Brigantir.e
F A ivi E, Atl
Francis Knox, MaCtr, V
®y faITT AS accommodations for pal- j,
j!" fevers, and is expeded to fail 011 C
thursday next For«sght of a few barrels or passage, J-
Take Notice, .
THAT the Subscriber intends to mate apphca-
tion 'for the renewal of a Certificate, No. 1609, J
for 4000 dollars, dated the 14th December, I 7?£ b f v |?«* -]
interefl: at 5 £ per cent, from ift January, 1796, in the
name of David Dunderdale & Co. of Le-ds, in York
shire, merchants. The fame isfoppofed to have been 101 l
on its Way to New York, under cover to Bleeckit tx J
March, of thatplacc, on the (kh of January lait-
Thomas M'Euen.
Philadelphia, vid June, 1796. S * v/h
-——— ; ~ — oft
Just Arrived, fc
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, rnafter from Li- r. j
verpool, ' T ec
5000 BuflkAl* SALT ; tV( .
100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; and IJ
An Aflortment of SHIP CHANDLEI'.;
for nit
On board, at Pine-street wharf.——Apply t»
James Campbell ■, or
George Latimer.
April 29. ?_ y
' _t? NO TICK J;
There will be fold on Thursday the 4th of .\ugnft, at V
the Merchants' coffee honl'e, 111 .Second ilreer,
One thousand shares of the stock ot
the North America Land Company.
If not previouliy <iifpofcd of.
Philadelphia> aoVhJuly.
For Sale, Freight, or Charte^
The Scho«ner'
Mk* ANGELICA,
fe. : v-d, p|NE.hundred ahd twenty tons burthen —
fix months old, aft a u neb, faithfil'y-
Tjuilt, fact-Tailing V ffcl, handiomcly finifiicd off, and v.cll |
found inevtry p,«:ticular. For termsappiv to j
B. RHODFS, |
Cia hbitti said ftjiooner, lying at Dft^klefy 1 and Bohlen's .
wharf, tKe lirll above Market street. • ]
WHERE THERE ARE FOR SALE, te
si ffij balf-bbls. Prime Mess Beef.
July 24 §
- - CJ
For Sale or Charter, u
THE SNOW
BOSTON, J
BTJR'fHKN iSbat icoo BbLs. of flour—lie may be fer.t
to sea at a !':iiall expence, her fails and riggitis; being in
very good order—ipplf to r
James Campbell-, or
George Latimer.
April, V). §
* CABLES, 5
' j
From 16 to 9 i inches, for sale by I
Jeremiah JVarder,
July 11 $ No 12 north Third-ftrest. j
' 1 ~ 1
Landing
From on board the Nancy, William Belcher, mas
ter, from Bourdeailx, a cargo, confiftiny; of—
360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET,
232 Cafe 6 of 24 bottles cach CLARET,
z'Stf do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS,
For Sale by
F. Coppinger.
-July 23. dtf.
Just arrived,
220 boxes btft Claret,
Coaiainmg tyiro dozen each, foe sale, Wholcfate& Retail, by
William Sheaff,
*45 July 22. No, 168 High-ftrcet.
Schooner LITTLE JOHN. 1 J
FOR S AI. E. *
The Schoonvr LtTTLE JOHN, i sia
CAPTAIN BOYi), of Mr.
. A BOUT 18 month? uld, a very fact "ice ?f
Xx failing velTel, on Virginia Pilot boat
.Stßzk/ p' an « »° w Wm." So,i .' h w --- ir ' tcpttv
■•ytyVCt'lScarries r.ear 9»o.barrels, -s ren./ to ts :« i
$£2532 i» a cargo.; aliber»l civdit vri'l begiven. ~ , n ' f
Apply to PIiTEK BLIGHT. i\j\ and
. . July 19. * taie * A
* ~
For Sale,
< Tiie Schooner
- htM'A Dispatch,
TJURTHEN about twelve hundred barrels,
- 1) a (launch, good vcffel, t .vo years oW, is .
newly fceath';d, and in compleat order to proceed on a
f voyage.—For terms apply to
, Jpfeph Anthony & Co.
' J«fy *7- ____ 4t V
7 just Arrivf
lln the fcip Molly,J&hn Fiflft, MuVr. U^r P o. ; V »
2 5000 Bufhcls Bell finp ftov::d b. .i. !«»..
e 600 Bushels HOUSE COAL,
„ r
/-pTnllpTSfiv ' •. 6c
- N. B. THI : lo
V Ship M O LY, £ .
TS (or SALE or CH \RTCR, r - :s l>eh,
1 years old, Philadcipi l :>a ■ 1 o«
carrier about 4400 t«.
For terms apply as above.
Tuly 23 • dtk
•> 7 J tuou»
This Day commenced Landing,
At A' ifflins wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop Uctnc
St. Jago, from Bt. JagodeCuba —confuting of' «
White and Brown Box SUGAR- lL 1 c
'f- MOLASSES, of an excellent quality. luth
COFFEE..
;e, HIDES M..: HONEY. Also,
Sale or Charter. oi
- The brig LUCY, phih
A ft° ut > strong vefiel, will carry a
:a- A bout 1200 batrels.and may go to
'9> - tea with a very small expense. '
ng will be fold for caih or approved notes. (
| lC Samuel Emery, Q !
k : No. 64, south Second-street.
oft , , , dtf. othe
& July 27, >79P- ]i
LOSTVr left,
At some place in the city or vie riity of Philadelphia,
vVliich is not known —A note drawnhy .feac Beers r-.q. , j
of the Citv of New. Haven, (Conne£hcUt,) Jon jo dol
lirs drawn in favor of the fubfenber, payab.e lßtoiji % ,
Li- r,.*t. As the note was not indorsed and payment in Itop-
■pert, it can be of no use to any one but the swner. W "o- hl< ,
ever has found tue said now and delivers the fame to tiK
IV inter a-. No. 119 Chel'nut Street, or it the fabfcr.hc-.
No. 25 Carters Alley, ihall receive ten dollars rcwaru.
Cbejter Atdoater. tior
July ift. -- . -
Win. HQLtjUjR-N^SSr?,
No. 76 H'lf h Strict, At
HAS received; by the latest arrivals from Europe and
the East Indies, a well feltfied assortment ol .>.ll.
Merccy,l-inenDrapery and Haberdashery Gooas;wnich
at he will M, Wholcfale and UetaH, on the lowed terms;
AMONGSt WHICH ARE,
Ol Setae fine India maflins embroidered with «old and iflver
Suiwrfine Book, Jaconet, afld Mnlmul ditto
y. nJ Jo -do do Handkerchiefs Trl
Some extra black tafFetics,lut«ftriugsand colorsd Persians crc
' bandant) Handkerchiefs P a "
Long and short Nankeens w 1
Englilh Mantuas of the firft quality | n
Damaft: table liny • and napkins, very fine mr
Silk HoQery, ar. elegant assortment
Thead and cotton d« anc
Umbrellas silk, 01 d do. and do cloth
n— French cambrics, very fine
illy- Irilb Linens, do. &c. &e. June t4 p r ;
W4: " y Public Notice is given, I
the merchants and others concerned in the hipping t
len's j I it State Illand > under quarantine, that a Cart will j rcc
attend every mo.ning, sundays excepted, from nine to ; th<
ten o'ci.ck, at the Health office, No. 32 Walnut-street, to < ; n
' convey proviiions or other Refrefhments to the Hospital, |
and for the use of the crews. .Jafi
5 It is e.tpeiled that the Bags, Baskets, or other paclcag-
es with rutjplie*, will be directed with tht name of the vef- Fr
fel and captain they are intended for, to prevent mlltakes G
YdeUvery.
By order of the Board of Health for th.: port of Phila- en
delphla, LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH, Chairman. th
1 jiily 13 § a
ag in THE SALE OF
TV TOWN, and OUT LOTS of the TOWNS
* of ERIE, WATERFORD, FRANKLIN
ai)d WARREN.
§ A DVERTISED for sale bv the State AgenW, in th- Phila
- - A delphia Gazette and Univcrfal Daily Advemfer, to be
Sold in the City of Philadelphia ; will commence at the Cily
Tavern or Coffte-Houfc in Second-Street, in tht feiAcity, oa
Monday the 25th day of July inft. at 7 o'clock in the even
ing. and be com it»ued by adjournment from dav today, from,
iao'clwclcat noon, unril two o'clock, and from 7 until 9
f o'clock in the evening until the whole of the said LOTS and
OUT LOl'Saredifpofed of. The conditions of sale will be 3
made known, and the pians of the said LOTS and OL L
LOT Sbe shewn at the time and place of sale.
» By order of tt'iltijn Irvirit, Andrew Ellit tt and George VI ufon
mas- Aftcni.. EDWARD FOX, AuHiohccr.
July 22. .
Sales of India Goods.
, " 1 ■ ; ,
The Cargo «f the (hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
/ cutta and Bengal, ,
CONSISTING OP
and general assortment o( Bengal and Madras
COT/ON and SILK GOODS.
r. y AMONG WHICH ARE
dtf. A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins,
- — Doreas, Iffc. Alio,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER.
T* " Fot Sale by
t?il,by Willings ?sf Francis, J
ff, No. it I'ewn Street.
rect. June $
9 -v > •
" DUTY ON CARRIAGES. j
Notice is hereby Given, : fit^
THAT »zrc»(.|y lo an ad of Congrcfs ot J Ni-«-lV
1 S,ai«..t me -a. paiTei# at PhiU.!elphu, the »B<h day
of Mav, J7ab ; laying dutitt on Carriage', tor tne convey
nice of ptrh.ns. m.d iviv.aliii<; the I'ormer acts tor thai put
oale.—Chat (litre iha'.l be levied, collected a«j. p..td, up.m
'ill 4<»r the convcyarrcs- of pe#ia:«», wnicn ir.all DC
kept bv Qi tor any perlon, for his or her O.vu me, ot to et
Jot to hire, ar Cot the coflvtying ot tne ieveral c*u.'
~ . „,m s [•ilio.virrr, t:> >*. t. JV j
fo\and u. n c-ciy Coach, 15 u. jL 1
' vriVvr r v CnariOi, 12 dols. Pvlefft s
up6nevery Pflj| dols; now di
U{»o every Poll Cu«»itc, 12 « cfs. ' l'-jiT
upon evtry Phae on, wuhor without to,|>, gdols.
upon every C'-acncc, 9 dois.
upon Carriages, having panne 1 W4'rlt a^ovc,
blinds, gkifles or curtain?, 3, dols. .
upou four w netl carnages, having framed polls anc
\cioj vvtfh ftec! lpiings, 6 dols.
upon spur wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
' ipringsci jMcks, 3 dols.
upi'ii curricle* with tops, 3 colj. ' '
upon c aifes with tops, 3 dols. T Oil
upon chairs with tops 3 do is.
upiii ;ulk.iv.» with tups, 3 ciwls.
upiwi oilier twu wheel top carriages, 3 cols. #
upoj# t -vo wkeel carriages, with ileei 0/ iron fprmgs,
'J
Jur and upon all other two wheel carnages, 2 ools.
upon lour wheel carriage, having warned polls
and taps, and rcftiug upon wooden 1 pars, 2 dou. j\ ]
T' - GoJlt&ors of the Revenue ot the thf It turvey ot tne
O.ifHt Ji fennfylVania, will attend daily, until the 30 th da>
■ .umber next, for the purpose of receiving ihe duties on jui
• - j,atNo. 117, in Race or Saffjfras ftrcct, in lI " Cu>
ifi delphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Liq in l lC l\
>f Montgomery; aad at the house ot Alr.aiiam L>u
bc-f q. in the County of Bucks; of w iich all periods pot
'< u ! i . inch Carriages are desired notiee. extern
" Notice is also given,
j river
TCVall retail dealers in Wines, and foreign difti.led fpiri- fraa'.-.
tuous liquors, that licencerwill te grantedTo ißem ; one li ahr
cence for carrying on the bulinels of retailing o ine., in a high,
lelsq tantity, or in lets than 3b gallons—and one
licence lor carrying on tho bulinels of retailing Sp.ruuous 1
qtinl in lets qualities than 20 gallons, at the lame time and
at the fame places, by the officer* legally authonzed to grant
foch licences. . T Cena
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeftor of the Revenue of the survey
of *he dilli of Pennsylvania. *
Office of InfpeOion,at )
Philadelphia, 21 il July, 1796 > ' *" 3° •
A Young NEGRO GIRL, 'T 1
~i'. Of Four I ten years Old, FOR SALE,
Qhe has near El veil Years to serve, is healthy, and well P
O aeqtit.inted Vfith the buftnefs of a Ckamber Maid, ana
other h. use work Enquire of the Printer.
July *5- I_l_ mag
that
, Twenty Dollars Reward. ti««
• r ~?X TA3 S*FOl.EN>'laft. evening, fromthe pasture of tfhs i(
VV fuhferiber, a black Rockingham GELDING, ij
1 1-a ha.ii.is high, ha, a ttar, and some. white under his kno ,
" throat, (th. purt being formerly chafed) ;has a leather ob lf
■ hi. neck, ilie mane on the near fide, his foot-locks fretted
" v.-h c.or, andi;»hOrfe of much honeaud size. Who- a(fo
' i.ti.T. :- Mnr w h , fhali have the atoVe rt-
L v'»i-{L or for the Korie alone a very ,
•on JOHN LAWRENCE. |
July 1 tO4W the
" — ■ ■■ ■ I aclci
Noiv Pallijbh? by the Printer,
At No. 3, Lsetitia Court, delivering to Subscribers, »"jj
J 1 and to he had at the different Bookstores in this City, cqu
i'i Berriman.& Co's pet
CUE A P AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
The HOLY BIBLK.
Containing the Old and Nw —:
teftamems and die Apocrypha, with marginul notes and' Y
eas efences. An Index ;or an account of the ffloft remarKabfe I .
palTaceiin the old and new Tcftament, poinung to the plates
wherein they haooened, and to the places of fcriptuie where-1 yj
in they are recorded.-A Table of Time.—Tables of scrip
ture mealurej, weighlsand coins : with an appendix,contain- w j.
iot» the method of calculating its m«asu**s »| ,
hitherto watting')' Trratifes tm thtsfubjttt. A Taole of (.Jftccs
and Cer.diticns of men. 1 r lO
CO N~DI t ion s I '
I. Tlitfee of this Edition will .be a LARGE FOLIO, _
- printed on a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par
tieularlyfor it, It will be publilhed in' Numbers, not to ex- by
ceed qo, one of which will be delivered w<ekly to fthfcrib
! ers, at a quarter oi a dollar. Thole fubferibers who prefer .
1,1 ! recriWifctbe work willbe attended to by Ggnlty.ng ~
to I the fame on any ot the fubfenption papqrs in rhe Sookitores
f'i in this city. . . ~ . ... ,1
al, j , There willbe an advance in the price, on lubf.ribing I H
| after the fit li of /luguft imxt. _
Ig- ' Irt the cowrie of the Work willbe given an elegant en
ef- Frontispiece—From an Engraving of the celebrated artifl, a (l
kes Gricnion. , , , , ... .I _
Bekriman & Co. gratefully acknowledge the very liperal
,1a- encouragement they havemet with ; and hivereaionto believe
that the execution of their fdition will answer every expec- I
• tation, arid (peak its owh praise. I
L May 26 3KOWW.
Lottery
IN T?On. raifinc fix thousand lix hundred and faty-feven tc
dollars and fifty cents, by a of fifteen' per J
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks toa prize, viz.
, 3 " 1 Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000 I
!,. r iooo 1000 I
- ,ly , 50s 500
' ott c aOO i°c° I
' en " 100 2COO I
om > 29 I
il q 99 495° I
and 25 s°°®
Ibe 4000 IO 20,000
ic r s drawh numbers or 1000 dollars each, jooo j
ifi*
»33i Prizes. 44,450 I
4018 Blanks.
6ito Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 1
By order of the Directors of .the Society for ellablilh- I
„ , iiH. Ufeful ManutaiSures, the lupcr in tendinis of the Pat
fn'cn Lottery have rcquefled the Managers to offer the
foregoing S»heme to the public, and have direSed them
to" refund the money to rhofe persons who have purchased
l " ras in the former Lottery, or eSchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery. j -n
Ihe lottery has a&ually commenced dfjwmg, and will
ins, continue Until finifi'.cd. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may he seen at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second Srert, who willgiveinformatioH where tick
ets may be procured,
Dated thu 17th d.,y of June, 1796.
J. N CUM MING, )
JACOH R. HARDENBERG, r Managers.
; et. JONATHAN RHEA, )
June 18 eo
j To be Let,
A targe convenient thro? 'Wy nleafant'y
; lituated, 011 the weft lid.- o£Secdai?«itreM, oppof.tc to t'i;
Wcw-Market; how jfl tire oi Henry Cly.n*
Apply to
Wi! Ham Einghpm. I
July *7- (t -
For .Sale,
A Three 1o SBICK HOli.-t' ,«l Lor, in JCheGnt
ftriet, between t'r'out aiid/SecbV.d F.r.i i:; which
Messrs. Ju> cs Calbciith 5. Cp. have fur incajr year. '
now dos carried an bufineii. .. .
PofleMon will be given in Onemiohtb, or foop.er.
Eor terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITM.
' April 11. §
I
Just x\rrived
In the brig Betfcy, from Jerenn', and for sale by T
ihs f'lhfcriWers.
Forty thousand \vt. ofvery prime Cotter
in hoglheads u»:i bags
And) in the fchooucr tlujx.-, from New Otlcaiij.
beef*
.COTTON
HIDES- and
s LOGWOOD.
A libera! credit will be given for Approved Notss.
' Richard and James Potter.
n July 27. _
>e A Country Seat to be iold.
ABOUT ftven acres and a half of land near the three
mile uone on the mad leading to Gray's gardens and
extending witliftgefitle deoivity from the said road to the
river Schuylkill—on which are ere tied, a convenient
l ' iuitafefckfor a tenant, a frame bara and ft able,
1 a large Brick Home forty-eight feet front, two (lories
a high, a very elegant'/Lzza fronting the river, the whole
! c breadth of the hdufe lupported with turned pillars, floor
jl ed with cedar phiih, commanding ail and pfc-
I turefyuo 'view of the Miutile Bridge, Gray's Gardens, the
II Seat o/ W.m. Hamilton, Esq. the lload and
Csaial. The improvements are all new—and the ground
a y conveniently divided and inclosed by «iw cedar fences.
For terms apply at No. 15 1 Market-ftretit.
Jufy*7 *3*
_ War-Office of the United States,
May 4th, 1796.
THE following Rules, explanatory©!' thpfc publilhed'
the 15th February, 1789, are to be observed by ajl
c jj persons entitled to Lands, in purfUwnct of resolves ©£.
• Congrcfs.
Every certfljipiti of the acknowledgment of a deed or
power of attorney, either before a notary public or o i cr
magistrate, rpuft, in addition to what i$ ufua.l, set fprtk
that the person making the acknowledgment is known.te
the notary or other magiilrate ; for which purpofc words
, of the following import iiiufl be infer t£d in the certificate.
" Arid I do moreover certify that the said A B making
this ackriowledgnlcnt lias been for personally
known to me." •
oi * If the notary or ©ther magiflrate has reason to believe
f that he is th person he represents himfelf to be, he wii
l ° also certify it.
Y £~ Andil the proof tie made by a witnefsor witneUesdv' or
they must fvWar to fbme general atteof.their knowledge of
I lant, which matter mull be set forth in the certificate ; *id < .■'
v I the notary public, or other oaagiilrate, before whom tJJ'
1 — I acknowledgment is made, mull also set the wit - ,
ne)6 or wit no lies has or have been for upwards of
[ per'>nally known to him.
?rs ' I If a justice of the peace is employed,* the clerk «f the
*y> j court of the corporation or county must certify that such
I person is a juflice of iTic peace of thi. county or corpora*
I tioii as the cafe may be, and that full faith i, due to hi.
ails as fuck. JAM£3 M'HKMRY,
Secretary of War.'
I May ti. lciivsm
abl" I Jsfheton and James Humphreys,
laccs CONVEYANCERS,
iefe- j TJT AVE removed their office to No. 61, Wilnut-ftrcet,
-rip- JtTl „ L . x t door but two to the corner of Dock-street,
:,iin * where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn at
c a' moderate charge, with care, accuracy and dirpatch.—
I" a Xh y iikewift boy and fell Real Estates upon comntif
fions. and procure Money upon Loan on good security.—
, n The bufinefi of an AI'TORNEY AT LAW and NOT A
' RY PUBLIC is also tranfadfed at the said »mce as ufaal
I by ASSHETON HUMPHREYS:
crib-1 N.B. Good Notes discounted.
refer j. July J. '■ 1— <y ..
University of Pennsylvania,
j July >6i >796-
ibing rpHE Summer Vacation will tike place on Monday ne*t,
j 1 the J3'"h iiid. and continue for Four weeks. Theditter
egaitf ent Schools withthe.fcvcral Totoks will accordingly re
artift, I assemble on Mo,.day, the 15th day of Au.uft. _
Bv the Faculty, Ww Ros t: rs, Sec y.
eiievc jyv C*anal LottGiy,
x P «- NO. I.
, w TTT-HERFAS the State of Maryland has authorised
' I VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting:
a Canal through the City of Washington, from ths Po
r,«<.n I tomacto theEaftern Branch Harbour.
seven fol!oWing U the SCHEME of No. I.
• I \\i .1 Prize of ao,ooo dollars, io.ooo
s0! l c I I ditto lO.CCO ' 10,000
1000 jlaftdrawn") 35£°0
,oo Tickets, each j .
J I 6 ditto . 1,000 6,000
Jcoo 10 ditto 400 4,000
4950 20 ditto Ibo
?200 55 ditto -5° /' 75 »
10 000 I J 0 ditto 11 691008
' ;°°° To be raised for the Canal, a6,ijo
5 000 I # ■
lAjcol 5850 Prizes, " ilSflb*
I j i6jq Blanks, not two to a prize.,
ml 17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - ITS,OOO
1 riv '■& The CommifTioners have tiken the Securities re
le Pat'- quKd by the aforefaid y& for tl»c punctual paymeat «f
Fer the 1 1 h^j- he^drawtnfr of this Lottery will commence, without
rchafld delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
tickets notice will be given*
1 Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
nd will drawing is finilhed, fcall be consider Aas relinquiAcd for
Ptizes the benefit of the Canal, and approfA'-ted accord.ng l y.
v T. (Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
.et'ick DANIEL CARROLL,^
ret LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEO.KGE WALKER,
I WM. M. DtJNCANSON,
inaeers. 1 , THOMAS LAW,
8 I " JAMES BARRY,
eo ' C'ty of WalhisgWH, Feb. XI. 5
i
.faAJLhiVi (Mass.) JuW 19.
We hear from many placis of the gencrnus ex I
ertions to relieve the city of Charlellon. We lean
itom good authority, that the lodes do not exceed
the films mentioned to the public, but that they
ial! very heavy upon the middle class of citizens,
a"?d f> are more prcper obje&s to an enlightened '
Ciin'y. The fraternity of Masons dispensed with
their usual feaft« in the city, and gave a generous
aiiillance to the fufferexs. The words for the mil
fio of th« Prefbyteriao church in the city upon the
Occasion of a charitable contribution were happily
adapted. At a-time of public distress, every man
is ready to propose something to prevent the like
Calamities. It his propofrd to furnifh the ci
ty with drains which may be filled and emptied at
p'e?.fure. Weils also at the public expence in par
ticular situations have been rr entioned. The po-
of the city alio becomes a matter of ferioos
cire, and fueh things are noticed as lead to ftich
melancholy evils. The licences for public ho-ufes,
and to retail -fpiriruout liquors are to be publilhed,
wuh the names of the perforis who recommended
fueh as hold the licences. The Vagrant Ad\ of
that irate is also recommended to the public notice.
It has been proposed to give frem the steeples no
tice of the place of any fires which break out ;to
form fire companies; to institute badges ot fueh ]
companies; and to oblige fsmilies to provide water.
Resolutions have already been taken about widen- |
ing the flrects. Charitable conitibulions are fcri
oufly demanded from the wealthy and the good,-of
all our towns, remembering we are liable to the
fcrae dethu&ioH. The reccmmer.dation.t to attend
to health are in all thefonthern papers. Mitchel'j
facts during the prevalent sickness of New-York
allure us of the advantages of water. While it
wts unhealthy near it was fafe at ancho £
rage at a little distance. No evaporation from ponds (
was attended with ill confequence6 till the mud was
bare. Rain showers did always relieve, and wet c
cloathfs in the wind. Fogs and damp weather
were evll«. He recommends tc. attend to the qua t
lities of water used for drinking, and to provide
Cold fair water to walh cloaths, placing a due ft reft a
upon walhing of the body, cleanlincfg and frelh „
cioathifg.
Dr. Priestley having compared " the principles j a
of the Heathen Phi!of»phy, with the principles of n
CJjiifiianity, in bis late difcomfe observes, ,
" On the whole, we may finely fay tiat, had
modern unbelievers found in the scriptures any of n
the doctrines, which 1 have (hewn to have been pro- t
feffed by .the pliilolop'hers of antiquity, had they t
found there the dotlrin- of two co eternal princi
ples, that of the emanation of all fouls from the ~
substance of the fupretne being ; the absorption of j;
them into it again ; with their repeated emissions 0
aod reflations to all eternity; had they found v
there the doftiina of the formation of all things Q
by the fortuitous concontfe of atom?, that the air v ,
is filled w;th demons of diff-r nt characters, Sireft- j,
ing the ass irs of the woild at their plaafure, and u
giving intimations of future events by omens, and
divination; had they founfl in the scripture the
do&rinc of tbe pre-exiltence of all human fouls,
their lapse into gross bodies, where tliey are con
fined, nnd also contaminated by their connexion [,
with so uebafing a companion, the purification of
their embodied fouls by su'lerity and mortification,
their transmigration through th« bodies of animals,
by way of prepaiation for their ascent to the im- t(
perial regions ; had they there fotisd the doflrine
of one common principle of intelligence, or foul of
the univeife, in all men and animals, without giv
ing to each a permanent exillencr, had all or any
of these dodlrines been found in ihe scriptures,
would tliey net have exclaimed against fus.li crude
notices and wild conceptions, and have rejedled
the system without farther examination? It was,
in fa£l, the finding no such opinions as these ifl
the scriptures, that firft led Christian philosophers
(after having adopted several of them from a hea y
then fuurce, and having long endeavored to hold a ]
them in conjunflion with their Christian principles)
that led them to fufpeft their truth, and further j
reflexions on the fubjeiS led many to explode them
altogether. Thus is the world indebted to Chri
•flianity fqr the deletion of errors, which were the
disgrace of hnman reason, though patronized by
the ovott eminent phihifophers of the heathen world
—yet modern though lying, with the | f
reft of the world, undet so great obligations to
Chiillianitv, are now busily affcirlting.it with every '
weapon of reason or ridicule. Its friends, howe-
'ver, are under no apprehensions about it. This
very ftateof things was forefeen and foretold, by (t
its founder. Revealed religion is so far from ftr ink
ing from, that it invites, the llrittefl examination.
Its friends being thofc of reason and truth) engage
in its vindication only as flip ported by reason and ji
truth, ar.d as favorable to the bell intercflj of man- ,
kind."
_ '
Lall Monday week was the annualrifitation of ( |
the schools in tfiis town. Within a few years, new
febool hobfes have been erected, and new a;>ange
mems have Ireen Made. The schools for young ' n
girls have, been opened, and the schools for the
boyg have been put under new regulations. At j
the violation, the ftfhoolcommittee were accompa
nied by the feleftmen, overseers and piincipal town- V
officer j, with private gentlemen and the clergy. '
In the weft school under matter ker, pleating
fpecimims of reading and writing were given. The —
att of writing is here taught with great fueeefs. £
In the center writing school under Mr. Gray great
improvements were visible, and among the youth
was the fun of a free African, named Titus Caesar
Atigullus, who dillingni/hed himfelf among the
scholars. In tire eallern school undar maftcr Lang, ch
the children were fuiall, in some degtee owing to ell
the convenient private ichools -nesr tlie eommon, T
at which tfre larger boys complete their school edit- an
cati<>->, and ijy Englilh grammai, navigation, mi
French, furvey.ng, drawing, &c. In the ed
mar school under master Rogeis, we have some of be
our mult promi!7ug youth, who rtudy the Ivarnetl pr
languages, grammar, geography, mathe- of
matics and penmanlb'p, from whom we havt« ihe J set
grcattft expetiationi. By the continued care of art
the committee, and the fidelity of the mailers, we j em
f
* etped to render our pu!;!i • fchp-.ls a diftwguiftsd
honor to ,he town, and adequate t» the -liigheft
ex purposes of their inflitution. riieir impoitante is
in universally acknowledged, and we trtift that :hey
:ed will have tbe patronage of all good citizetw. Tli ir
icy present success is an agreeable ftibjeit of public
ns, congratulation.
.ed'
ith *
■us FAYETIEVILLE (N. C.) July 16. ,
in At a numerous and rcfpedable meeting of tire ,
he inhabitants of the comity of Cumbciland and town
ily of Fayetteville, at the court-house in Fayettevilltf,
an on Wednesday, Joly 14, 1796, convened by pub
ke Jic advertisement fur the putpufe of expieffing their
-i opinion 011 the late measures of Congress.
at George Elliott, Esq. was chosen chaii man, and
ir- Joshua Winflow, Esq. clerk.
O- " Refnlveil unanimously, That the condu<S of
as William B. Grove, E(q. during the late fefiion of
:h Congress, meets our warmest Kpprobaiion ; and
s, that a committee of five pcrfons be appointed to
d» draw up an address on the occasion, expressive of
the fentimcnts of the meeting." «
of The committee appointed pursuant to the above
resolution, repotted an address, which being tead,
3- was agreed to.
0 On motion, a committee was appointed to pre
h sent the fame to Mr. Grove.
r * Ordered, That these proceedings be requefled to
]- be published in the Nonh-Carolina Minerva
GEORGE ELLIOTT, Chairman.
Joshua Wixslow, Clerk.
Ie , 1
d THE ADDRESS. j
To William B. Grove, Esquire.
k Sir,
'' HAVING entru!led to you the guardisnftup of
1 our conlHmtioiial rights and political welfare, and
!' being fehfible that you poflefied superior epporty- "
IS nities of ii'fonnation. we forbore intruding opini
' or -S> ordiAating inftruiflions during the late im- J
T portant discussions in the Houfeof Reprefentfliives '
of the United States. 1
? Convinced of the integrity of your principles,
and fatisfied that your judgment would alone be
a giiided by what Ihould appear bed for the interest
of our common country, we remained silent, though 2
'J. anxious refpefling the event—Happy i„ the enjoy- '
m "t of every political blefling a bountiful Provi- 1
dence can beKow, we were greatly alarmed, left c
j in the eonflia of parties and warmth of paffians,
measures might have been adopted, pregnant with [
- fatal confequentfs and with evils the mod .calami-
) r tous and distressing. a
Although we regret the difference of opinion ?
e which fubfifled between you and the other repre- F
fentatives of this (late, on the important question °
5 of making for the British treaty, I
we are happy to afTure you, Sir, that your vote
8 on that occasion meets our fulled approbation, and
r we believe that of your constituents generally. Jt f
- is to us a frefh pro.f of that independent foil it and ?
unbiassed judgment, which hath ever marked yoar
J political condua, and (hould ever govern the re- F
; prefentative of a free people. a
Endeared to us by this manly, firm and inde- '
pendent conduct, during the moll erifu tkat
' has been experienced since the adoption of the fe 1
deral Conftitntion, you may refl assured, not only '
' of the continuance, but of the encreafe of oar F
' confidence and elleem ; a«d that we will endeavor V
to make your iclidence among us, curing the re- 3
cess of Congress, as agreeable as poffiblc. 0
; THE ANSWER. c
To George Elliott, Efqoire. 'j
; THROUGH you, Sir, I beg leave to offer my
| grsteful acknowledgments to thofc of my confti
ments who have thought proper to express their "
- confidence in my integrity, and approbation of my *
conduct 111 Congress, as contained in the address
you have \ ecn so good as to present from them G '
I can fay with truth and honest pride, ihat on
all occasions hnce I have had the honor of being a P
[ reprefentatiye of the people, ray votes have bee..
dictated anddirtfted by a pure define to advance
the uttered and hsppinefs of my countrymen, and
to secure to them tfic blessings of peace and good !'
government. ° n
| Unanimity is certainly desirable , ,„d no man can
tegret more than 1 do, the necessity which compiel- 7
, mc t ° difTcr.t from my colleagues ; bit, defira
b,e as it is, it ought not to be obtained at the ex
pence of facr.ficirig the judgment, to my coun.
try and constituents 1 am alone lefponfible fur m y
; votes and public conduct, and therefore I could not ft
■ 1. k ado P tln g the opinions of others, however ! "
reiyecrable, when they differed from what I con- ' 1,1
; ceived to be my duty in giving my assent to the I
1 a PP ro P"a.t«o«B for carrying the treaty with Great- i''
bntain into effedl J it being a measure. whith I ! 8
had reason to think and hope, would ensure the ' tf
harmony of out common country. j '<
"1. h fent;men,s of r <-gard I return my warmed I
thanks to my friends and fellow-citizens, for their j P 1
kmd assurances of esteem and encreafed confidence tc
in me, and their obliging wilhes to add to my hap- r
piHtls while I remain among them. Y {
1 / f y°"' Sir, and the gentlemen who are present, si
I feel myfelf particularly indebted- for your polite ll
am. friendly attentions, and sincerely offer you the K
thanks of a grateful heart. bi
WILLIAM B. GROVE. 10
oi
Ex'raft frbra an Oration, delivered at Newport **
R Eliery'" 4°f ■ }Uly ' ' 796 ' Ai ' rilham
"At the head of our government presides the fr
chie., the state.man, whole name excites the warm-! th
ell emotions of grat.tude, aff.dion an d veneration D |
o the name of Washington—-a name so g.eaw I
and had intended to annex my feeble e>co-' :
mium ; »Lut the share he fills in my rn'md is lia'Jow dt
ed- nor dare I even pra.fe him ; that he ever W be
been eenfured, can be accounted for only lipon that h(
principle, which bad, men, through the obliquity
ot their undedlandtngs, the ing.atuude of their
j feelings, and the perverfenefs of their hea.ts, to ha
arraign even the wddom and good IK fe of Prcvid- n<
cncc. '
1 fiv
*
*
, n
I
«
:ed " sfa::ricar.t I when ». ci aTsiSer like this i» at
eft ttrap'eH to be traduce/!, it is a diiecl attack upo
• is all ; it is Wounding yirtne and paffwtifii), in tb
i C y petl'on »f their m .ft uiiliiigmthed votary and illut
ir trione fupportrr : When a character like this i
lie fuffered 1o be reviled—is fuucrccl to be treated wit I
wanton indignity*—where will you find ths man
who has talents to exert, who has n character to b<
injured, or feelings to be wounded, who will ventun
to serve his country ! What integrity of life—wha
tve exertion' of patriotism—what accumulation of fcr
vn vices, will fheher tiim ? Who can expect to efeapi
|(l obloquy, when thans of calumny have been aimec
b. =it a bosom which nfever knew dilliunor, or felt re
•jr proach V'
foreign intelligence.
ot PARIS. •
id Letter from the Ov:?i nijJary of tbt Executive DireSory
0 near, the armies of Icalyand the Alps, to the Exe
jf ctitive D'neHory.
4 Lody, 25 Floreal, 4t!iyear.
re " Citizens,
j " The enemy being connquered at Lody, as 1
' hare informed you, had filed towards Mantua, by
the toad of Pizzighitonc ; they were pursued on
the 23d, and finding it more pr-udent to fly than to
wait lor us, they precipitated their retreat. Piz
zighitone being however, ocftipkd by the enemy,
General Buonaparte firft caufcd it to be furroimded
—then attacked—and this place was soon taken ;
the garrifwri,confining of about 1.00 men were made
priforiet'S j 'we have also taken 4 pieces of cannon
a' ' n howiflH
:>na, is this moment occupied troops
j. other tide aur ran guard muit be in Milan,
wiir hjad quarters will lie eltafelifhed there to-mor
row ; we there expect to rrfre.li ourselves a few diiys
not so much on our own account, as on that of our
troops, whom it can be eafi'y fnppofed, aremuch
fatigued by a month's continual marching andiight-
i g ' *
From the I'Eclair May 29.
Tbf reports of the day, give us the hope of an
approaching pcace betweenthe French Republic and
1 Austria, and confequeatly with all the continental
powers.
' A letter from Mayenre of the 12th May, in
forms us that the truce 011 the Rhine, is prolonged
' two months, and that the Arch-Duke Charles has
1 been ordered to Vienna, on the other fide we are
aflttrtd at Paris, that the citizen "Defcorches, late
Miniiler of the republii at Conllantinople is em
-1 powered to negociate wiih the Emperor. One of
our moll elleemed papers even goes so far as to fay,
(hat he has departed to Vienna fer that purpose.
| This departure ilots not appear to us to be very
j liksly. It is not in our prcftnt fituatiou to be, Fup
pofed, that the Directory would choose the capital
I of our principal enemy, for rhe feat of negociatiop ;
brcaufc it would appear by this as if we sued for
peace. We may then helieve that negociations are
about to be recommenced, but irot at Vienna, ana
that this place is not the destination of Defaorcbes.
Lebois, the Editor of the pretended Friend »f
the people [L'aroi du Pruple] a paper printed in
the Spirit of Marat's, is arretted. Seals! hare been
put on the press of the Journal des Hommes Libre*
which daily defended the cause of Babceuf, Drouet
and others. We mnft however believe that this aft
of rigor has not been oxeu-ifed against them on ac
count of their opinions, but as the ao-tflTaiies of the
co'nfpiratori. Wis it not so, it would be an attack
on the liberty of the press, »hi«h we would be far
from approving
In the ijgfit of the 2d of this month, some move
ments were perceived in the Fauxbouig Saint Mer
cean, but a patrol of cavalry soon dispersed the fe
diti«.tis. In gen<»l, the police of the night is well
conducted, since Cochon is .miniQcr.
The confpirstor. of Pa. is had prepared, in com
pany with molt of the adminiftr»rions not elsfted
by the people, several .of the commandant?, mem
bet sot Ibe popular societies, and revolutionary com
mittees,, the meafuresby which the horrjW. scenes
they intended f«r the capital were to be repeated
in ttie departments.
Tranjl.it. u for the Gaxette of the United Steles, from
late European Papers.
1' AR I April 22.
j On the 29 th instant, the fealt of the married per
sons w>lf b«celebrated. For that purpose the Di
leftory has liTutd a particular direction to the Mu
nicipalities—purporting that
1 £ ac j! A M«" !e >»h'ty frail endeavour to find in
their diftuft fuel, mariied peifons as have diftin
guifted themfelve, by an bono.able action, «r who,
tho incumbered by a family of their own, have
retcivcd one or more orphans into the fame. Then
, the Municipality shall write the t.smcs of such cou
| pies on a roll, and publish them on the d«y apooin
ted for the feaft, and in the name of th/iun
ry, prelcnt thtfe p-rfons witli civi« crowns. The
young couples married one month ago, or fincethe
tl ort- ffi ti niiJl bC ,0 —1
he proccflion. Ihe women to appear in whita
Lt" tH' I TTh' h B e "T' S a " d rib
• Jn the altar of the country, a speech fui
-ah c to the ofcafion fltal, be dclivL'ed, JnTpuU
pied bv ' " g " P la «s of honor to be occu
thetlcV i" f>ar ?" ° f b " h f -«' Surrounded by
f 1 * n" U g,an(i children. He vvhoZ
\ m *
the civic ,! ] n-i, dbe chatgtd to dirtribute
tTownß. i lip rYf(*tititi » I" rt
pie ceiemony, v,uh all the touching cha.ms of so i
. iemnity Hue to the frme. "t.msotJo-
elterday the beginning wms made of .t,
cempt:oh of the im It rr ot ,be re " !
helow, f„rcoppered so) '' and ;
houte of Communes. b "" s d^".th e ,
.p. ... May 8. '
Ihe viftortts obtained by our tro-vn* ! n I, 1 '
helve bll P J i.3!t,
- 1
al- Intlead of stockings, the f<iMi- s [J, e ; r f
>on with old linnen and (hi-'.-p fkini; iufVad of breat." >1
the soldiers for fotne time only rt. ei-r 1 ,7 tlry Cli T
of- nuts, partly, rotten. V<m are in of cv-rv "
is said Gen. Buonaparte to the foMirry,
ith opened the Campaign in Italy. Force you, (
an, fageto Milai), and you will have any thing .
be and other representations encouraged the io'id' '
ure even to enthusiasm.
lat Citizen Murat, Aidde Camp to Gen. Bonn
lr- parte, was *ell received by the Piemontcfe, Gen
ipe Colli, and the Sardinian Minister of War.
led When he arrived at Turin, the people U nen„j.
re- »ocnlly exptrfied their admiration of the French'
and inclination for a speedy peace.
rrn. Madame de Soucy, who'attended the daimhter
of Louis, on IterM-av to Vienna, was murdered at
Vitiy, a lea,;u; from Paris, in the house which lately
was attacked by 32 robbers, who killed alboli eve
ly person in the house.
Irj The Comroiffaries in the different departments
tt- have been prohibited to use the title, " Cumnnfldry
General,' which some have aflumed'in- their funs
tions.
There arep |';.l 13 gun boats on the Loire a .
I bove Nuitzs, to fecuie the Navigation of that river
and to prevent the communication between the
armed R'jyalilis on both hdts jof the river. D'An.
<0 . tichamp, Kofuier, and the Brothers Debrtie, « ov „
2" are their principal leaders.
T> At I) I, the Chotians loft in a bloody engage.
ment, their chief Lavieux Vi'de. The fokiierj
; fciitd 500 louis, and j number of Entrlifh Bant
!e Ncyjrs upon him. -—•
n Gen. Foltboiinc, has been rmifcJ'ered near Mar
seilles. »
>s Count Carletti was favdqred by the Arcbduke
t. of Tufenny on his return with a and a
r considerable oft ate, a circumstance on which our
•s papers make different observations.
r Rewbell.and Lijjßeveillere Lepaux, are
h the members of the dtre&ory, the mult opposed
t* to the Urrorifts. ,
The coat and waistcoat, of Charette, were fold
at Rouen, for 26 louis d'ors. ,
n London, Ma}' 10.
d Off Cherbourg, our vefiels captured the priva
-1 teer Pichegru of 12 gunvand 41 men.
Arrived at Sheernefs, frum the North seas, the
- Dutch Cutter De Vltfgheir, of 12 guns, Captain
J Van Efch, and the French Cutter Lc Petit Diable,
s of 10 guns, Capt. Reynier, taken with f.>me of
e their priies by the Kite, armed veflel off Chrillian
e sand. • /
Appreher.fions are entertained, left out home
s ward bound Ealt-India fleet, way £.11 in with the
, Dutch fleet, that failed for the Cape of Good
- Hope.
f Capt. Sidney Smith, has informed one of his re
- lationsat he is decently treated at Paris.
I Ihe army of Great-Britain at piefent, conftftg
; of 154 regiments, amongst them are 45 regiments .
r of Cavalry of 16,500t8en ; the infantry amounts
e to 88, coo, so that the whole regular Britifli army,
i excepting the militia, mid volunteers, consuls of
104,500 men ; besides we have foreign subsidiary
f troops to the number of 17,000, to wit j 12,030
t> Hanoverians and 5,000 Helfian*. The whole
i number of officers in tbe army is 1628, including 3
s field Marfhalls, 31 Generals, 55 lieut. Generals,
t 151 Majors General, 122 Colonels, 565 lieutenant
I Colonels, and 701 Majors, This elat, by an ap
proaching promotion will be augrrjeuted with 316
• officers.
r TRICINT, in Tyrolia, Mav 3.
A number of troops dailv defile by forced narch
- ca for Italy. At Infpruck, 3 companies of Tyro
• lian Riflemen are railing.
1 BOSTON, July 22.
• COMMENCEMENT.
The annual commeucertieut, at Harvard Univer
f:ty, was observed on Wednesday lail, with that
brilliant dilplay of erudition and genius which has
' generally diftinguiflied the occa/ion. The number
' of the young gentlemen who commenced Undents
at the Univeifity, was conliderablc j and the Gra
duates numerous.
! t he Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Member*
of the Council, Senate, and a large number of pri
vate gentlemen, forming a lengthy cavalcade, pro
ceeded from ;hi< town to Cambridge, to be present
at the gratifying exhibition of the talems of their
country.
The accuflomed formalities preceded the exereife*
of the day, which terminated in the forenoon.—
1 he Orations, Dialogues, &c. were on the follcw
ing fubjecls—which palled the ordeal of an en
lightened and difccrning audience, with great ap
probation.
BY THE BACHELORS.
1. A salutatory oration in Latin,by Francis Da
na. 2. A For«iilsc disputation upon this question
—"Whether the ele£lric fluid be the cause of the
Aurora Borcalis ? By Thomas Mafou and Nathan
1 ilton. 3. "Time," an Englilh Poem, by
Charles Pinckney Sumner. 4. A Greek Dialogue
upon " The learning of ancient Greece," by Leo
nard Morse and Benjamin Rice. 5. An Enghfh
conference upon " The comparative advantage' of
agriculture, manufactures and commerce to the U
nited Stales," by Charles Cabot, Samuel Welles,
and Luther Wright. An Englilh oration upon
" The .Triumph of Philofaphy," by James Ken
dall. 7. A foienlic disputation upon this question
" Whether Re3fon,unaGilleJ by Revelation,would
have led mankind to jaft • notions, even of the (irft
principles of natural Religion, by Samuel Dana
and Peter Thatcher. 8. A Latin dialogue neon
" The advantages of a public education," by
Wendell Davia ami William Tudor. 9. An En
glish coufe\ence upon " 'i'hecomparative influence
ot a principle of curiolity, a propenlity to units
tion, and a difpolition to form habits, in determin
ing the human chara&er," by James Jackson, Ed
mund Toppan, and George Wingat#. 10- An
English dialogue upon " The par.er of falhion,
by Charles"Davts and JtHin Leighton 'i'uttle. ll«
A forenfic difputalion upon this queilion, " Whe
ther ccmttuaity of goods tends as much toof focitty m cxclufive property by -««n
(f T, Tinas Barron ?.nd Jo'barn Bender. «2. " Beau- red t
. "an Eighth Po»m, by William Boyd. 13. *ai.s
•' 'A eoltoquUl Panegyric upoo claffica! 'earing, event
f 1:1 E. gli h, by John Pickering and William VVeiles. mind,
11. " Envy wishes, (Hen believes,'' an Enghfh 0- crattc
r..ii..n, by Leonard Woods. . " ei '
young gentlemen were admitted and
ro the degree of Bachelor of Arts, via. 3
John Kidder, « L '
Samuel Top!iff
Henry Abbot J°h« Pickering nun,
Thomas Barron Benjamin Rice L"H<
Jotham Bender David Sm'W P c
Charles Bianchard Cha.le, !'. Sumner A
Wil'iam Boyd Peter Vh^ her *V P
Carles Cabot Nathan Tilton wf ,
•-h .-.lsrs Cufhing Edmund Toppan a ", >
FranS Dana B William Tredon ted
Samuel Dana John W"'"" Tuttle
Wendell Davis Samuel Welle.
Ciarles Davis William Wells Wjfl
Moses Everett Francis Williams will
Samuel Hunt George Wingate " e
Tame. Jackson M'» Win.hrop Mad
James Kendall Leonard Woods Mon
Thomas Mason Luther Wright pies,
Leonard Morse 0
And the following gentlemen were admitted to itep
the degree of Mailer of Arts, viz.
Charles Jackson, A. B. 1788.
Joseph Warren, A. B. 1790.
Phineha. Adams Charles Jackson men
Charles Angier William Jones wer«
William Aftiley --Fxancis Cabot f,r*vc,l aft
'John Avery John Byles Marshall tans
Samuel Brown Charles Paine ,
Charles Csffin Daniel Peters mitt
Ward Cotton John Pierce t
Charles Cutter' Ifa»c Story Ma;
Jonathan Dwight Joseph Slower. nor
Caleb Ellis Fredcria A. Sumner tha
Samuel Farrar Samuel Thatcher erec
mam belp
BY THIS DAY'S MAILS. ' \\Z
, part
NEW-YORK, July 27. /
[Continuation of foreign advice, received by the 1 tice
/hip Brifeis, Capt. Breath, from Bonrdeaux.J rniei
Trarjldted for the Daily Sldvertifet. 1
ExlraS from the Courier Fsanjois. cvei
FRONTIERS OF TURKEY, April 30. Au
The Porte at last convinced that Russia pursues °' te
' with obstinacy the proje£t of invalion and war, L
which it combines with tire courts of Vienna and
London, prepares itfelf 011 all (ides (o oppose against
those violences an adtive resistance; besides the ar- mOl
my which meets at Andrianople, which is become
in a manner a place of arms, whence all the troops P' 0 '
destined for the defence of our places in Europe " r!
will be drawn, numerous garrisons meet at Bender eon
Choczina, and in all Moldavia. It is added, that wat
the germ of the confederate army of the Poles, -
who endeavours to re-conquer iheii liberty, increaf- "P 1
es daily, and the Divan entertain. already, some P l! '
hopes of treaties of defenfive alliances with fume
European powers concerned in preventing the-dif- awi
memberiog of the Oroian Empire.— It is also
repyrfed.that the Grand Seijnicr ha* concluded a n
treaty with one of the parties who divide. Persia, '" e
and that party has engaged itfelf to make a flroog " e
diversion in Georgia, in cafe of a rupture with vcr
Russia. T1 at rupture is so much the more certain " '
that the Ruffian general Subor, is about marching
with »f 2-4,000 men, to attack that part
of Persia which efpotifed the cause of the Porte.
The number of Turkifti troops who have already l ' u
met at Andrianople, is computed already at 2co,eco
men, and it isafTerted that army is abundantly sup
plied.with every thing that is neceflary to open the ®i
campaign at the fit ft order. One mnft know
frugality of the Ottoman armies, not to be ado
niflied at the facility with which the Divan looked m
for all the fiipply of provillons and victuals which
they were in need of. lri
w
Extra&s from the Courier of the Legislative Body,
of Floreal 24, May 13. ry
Department of U'ar.
TOULON, loth Floreal.
Yeftfrdtry a Spanifti armed brig entered this port,
A general flag of truce is also arrived, having on .
board pan of the crews of the French frigates J
lately captuieJ at Turn's by the British.
EOURDEAuX, 13th Floreal. n
Gabeat;, brother to the famous Gabeau of Port
au Priner, whom General Laveau sent to France 0
as a 'late ptiloner, hi. been transferred to Chateau 1
"de lia.
a
PARIS, 23d Floreal.
Three Septemberifcrs of those who murdered '
the prifonen of Chatelet were yellerday tried and
acquitted. 3
In anot: er room, the malTacreerS of Laforce had r
also their trial, which lalted until one h'clock, A. 1
M. when one of thtm only w'as condemned to re
main 20 years in chai s ; the others were acquitted. r
To-morrow the murderer, of L'Abbaye are to c
be tried. ' 1
— \
We have a' number of the laift Paris papers,
from which <we f&lefl the following articles. 1
Tranflatjdfor the MINERVA. t
Tfie following ex'iaft of a letter from a eitizen of
the United States, to the Editor cf-the " Repub
Haiti du Nord," appeared in Paris in the Gazette 1
Frr.ncais of 27th May.
" The English government has received a very
important paper from America, by the Ranger
packet, Capt. Carifbrook arrived in 21 days from
It is a message from President
Wafr.ington, to the house of representatives, foun
ilcd as he pretends, on the Con I'it ut ion ;he refufes
a comply with a demaud us the house, to lay be
rnre t'ncm a copy of the inttrii&ions to Min'Ker
jay, to iirtgoeia e a treaty with his Britannic Ma
-1 \j—alfo the coriefpoTidence, «nd all other papers
, 'ative to the laid treaty. This message was badly j
R • "v
reeeivid tiy the house, and was immed'atelv refer- H'f'-e
red to a committee of the valin e. Our Cabinet plaet,
wails with conlleroation the relult of this c rri " eHeirr
event, knowing the general (late of the people's ahle r
minds in Anerica, and the triumph of the Dcmo-,| killed
cratie party in tlis house of icprefentatives. Ano- I man 1
ther event no less important at the present moment iheir
and which will not fail to accelerate the rupture, is brave
a battle which has just taken place off the heights ed to
of Cape Jeremie in the Antill. s, between an Ame- tor-k
rican and Englifb vessel, in which a coulidcrahie The
number of men were killed on both fides, the perfet
English attempted to board the American to im- Tl
press some of the fai'ors. due ti
A rupture between the President and House of I rec<
Representatives appeared inevitalile ; and in that Leha
cafe, that infamous treaty, which Thomas Paine 1 r
an;! you, and all the true Republicans of the Uni- Fron
ted Suites cannot read without indignation, and has n
whose myfterics seem not designed for profane eyes, sage i
will fail for want of execution. Washington ! (O tions.
Wafliii'.gton, thou art dear, but liberty is dearer) — not j;
will at leal! be constrained to reGgn—Adams and
the Englilh party will b« cruihed ; Jcfferfon and
Maddifon will appear again' upon the stage, auJ
Monro, giving full scope to his democratic prmci- BuOr
pies, will appear at Paris the true Reprefenutivt*
of his nation, the friend ai\d real ally of the », rench
1 Republic.
COUNCIL OF FIFE HUNDRED. wour
May 17. y«o ;
The direflory sent to the Council frefh dotil- \ 1
ments relative to the eonlpiracy. 1 hefe papers fioa
were found in a wall—among them is the original Parn
aft of infurreftion, and apiece containing the de- the r
tails a fitting of the committee of infu 11 e^tioi.. othei
These papers were signed by the infurreition com- piec<
mittee : referred to the Commiflion of seven. 1 y ba
Babeuf, the conspirator, wrote to the Dire6Wy the!
May 13, that he feared not death in any (hape, some
nor transportation—He (hould have the fare of ther
tha Sidneys, and Barnevelts. and thortly have altars wort
erected to him, as the patriots had prepared for Ro- A
befpjerre. He invited the direftoiy to declare the i
there had been no serious conspiracy, and pronufed their
them, by way of recompense, full security on the
part of the French Democrats. Com
A Brussels account of May 13, fays, the Arinif-
e I tice on the Rhine wapnot then broken, but the ar
naics were in motion ; th advanced polls were with-
in two mufl'et shot of each other, and hoftilitiei p
every moment expetled. Yet the French and
Aulttian officers were very social, dining together
s often, and indulging 111 balls and other amnferaei tj.
[What an odd farce is this Rate of the world !— J
j different parties shaking hands in high glee to day, .
[j and fuiiotifly cutting each others throats ta-mor-
r . mor-ow ! wre
e When the guard., sent yesterday to arrtft the
)S plotters, made their appeaVance ;iu Rue-de»la- s
Grande Tuandery, a woman cried to them not to
. r come in, for they were armed Viith pillols: fu. h
j! warning could not flop fotiKers taken from the
s> French armies. The door was therefore foori broke '
f. open , the confpiiators were in fa£l all aimed wi'h .
u pitlols, but nt>he durll fire. Evgn the greitcft pari ' .
le of them, as foan as'thev fnw the t- >ops, thiev |
f_ away their armi that they might not be found with j ,
f () them.—Drouet upbraided ttie guurd who (topped
a him with serving tyrants. Biibeuf being afke'd by 1
, the tninii'ler of the police, what were the means '
*' , , r ■,1 ■ /~> lra
,g he had to carry on a conlpiracy ag;;inlt ttie I ,
!(, vcrnment and the L gifliiive Body, answered, I
" T!»ofe means used against tyrants." I
' r 8 ; PARIS, May 18. 1,0
A Courier has Arrived and brought the news of I
),, the taking of Milan. I
~ 0 Head-Quarters at Pluifance, 2Qlh j
p. Floreal, May 9, 1196. I . ' '
h c Buonaparte, Commander in Chief of the army ef I
Italy, to the Executive Directory. 1
l H I have informed you, Citizrns Directors, by I
;ec ] my Ihlt, of the retreat of the Aufti iar army, whieh I 1
[ c [, had repaflfed the Po at Valence. They were en- 1
trenched along by Terdoppio, and Tefin, I
with a view to defend the eptrance of the Milanese. I
After different marches and movements, milita- I
ry and diplomatic, to induce a belief that I inters I
ded topaf6the river at Valence, I pufheefby a for- I w
ted march to Cartel St. Gioamer, with 3000 gre- 1
nadiers and 1000 horse. At ti o'clock at night,
the chief of battalion of artillery, AdreofTy and ad-I
'' jutant-general Frontin, advancing with a hundred I
1 cavalry, along the bank of the Po to Plaifance, j
took 5 boats laden with rice, some officers, 500 ftck
men, and all the hospital stores of the army. j | 0
ort At nine in the morning we arrived at Ihe Po, jar
ince °PP t 'f ~e Pla'fance ; two fqmdrons of hulTars at- I n
tempted to dispute our paluge—we three ourselves
ir.tothe boats and landed on the other fide—after t |
a few musket lhots, the cavalry withdrew. |
The chief of brigade, de Lafne, as brave as in rc
cred telligent, was the firft to tlep hi. foot 011 shore- n
and T' l ® divisions of the army, which were ditlributed
at different distances, hastening their march, the mo- e
had ment the movement wa. unmatkej, and palled in Ic,
the couife «>f the day. | a
re . In the mean time, Beaulieu informed of qur I
ted. march, was convinced, but too late, that the fortifi
eto catiotis of Teffein and the redoubts of Pavia, xVere -
useless ; that the French Republicans were r.ot as
weak as Francis 1. He ordered 6000 men, and .
r, 2000 cavalry to march to meet hs, to oppose our -j
landing, or attack lis, before we had time to forjn—
he failed in his calculations. At tiocfi I learnt <1
tha: a division of the enemy fa. near 11s—we I 1
marched—the enemy had 20 piece's of cannon, and 1 f
nof were entrenched in the village of Fombio. The
[pub■ General of brigade, Dallemagne, with the grerta-1 1
iette diers, attackrd on the right ; the adjutant-general I -
Lannus, on the bank, and the chief of brigade, 1
very Lafye, on the left. After a severe cannonade and I -
tiger a well fuftaiued refiftanee, the enemy founded a re- I
from treat ; we purfoed them to Acida. They loft a I
idem patt of their baggage, 300 horses, and 500 men
oun- killed or prifonere, with many officers.
fufes During the night, another bt)dy # of .5000 Au
y be- ftriaus, which was at Cazel, departed at 4 o'clock
n'iter to fuceot'-r the troops at Fombio. Flaving arrived
Ma- near Codogno, the heid quarters of Gen..Leharpe
apeis at two o'clock in the m«nung, they unt forward
badly j some men who fileoccd the centinela. General Le-
S " ' * ' '
pipunted hi» horse to learn what was takisg
placfc, lie oldened a half brigade :o advance, the
enemy was beaten and difpej-fed, but by an irrepar
able misfortune for the army, Gen. Leharpe was Q n
j killed by a cannon (hot. The republic- lias loft a Jn j|j- n
I man much attached to her cause, the army one of Mr. Jo
.heir belt Generals, and all foldieri a comrade as age.
brave i * rigid in discipline. Gen. Ber'.hier repair- The
ed tc itnmediately.he pursued the eucray, 'j;'"
tor k Cazel and a quantity of baggage.— P" u '
The 70th half brigade and Gen. Menarf, behaved
perfvttly well.
The success at Fombio is, in a great meafurc, ever v
due to the bravery of liie chief of brigade, Lafne. that in
I recommc.fd to the Drreftory thefon of General be con
Leharpr, for the place of Lieutenant ef cavalry. what a
l're'qtieft the confirmation of adjutant genera!
Fruntin.who, not ir.cltided in the labor# of Prairinl, j ( -
has never eeafed to serve with courage. The pas- j |3 n ' T p
sage of the Po is one of the mutt important opera-, *" p,
tions. There had* been bets laid that we (huuld A
uot pass it within two months. 1!
(Signed) BUONAPARTE.
Head-quar'fer9, Plaifanee, 20 FWeal.
Buonaparte, General in Chief of the army of Ita
ly, to the Executive Directory. J '' 1
Citizen PiefuleiH, • Its 'l
The brave Stengel i» dead, in confeqtience of his | '•
wounds. I have frnt to'his family the letter which in iSa
you adJrefled to hirer.
You'will find subjoined the articles "f a fufpen- c '
fiori ot arms which 1 have granted to the Duke of ~~™' r
Parma. I will transmit to you, as soon r.s possible, Qui „'l
the moll beautiful pidures of Corregio ; among J> "
others, one of St. Jerome, said to be his miller
piece. I declare to you that this Saint takes a ve<
1 y badtimeto go toParis. Itruft you >vill accord him 1"':'"
the honors of a museum. I repeat the requefl,that a "
some known artills may be sent to make choice of
the molt rare curiosities, and fucb as they {hall think c 10 '
worthy of being conveyed to Pans.
All the arrangements are made for the supply of
the afiby of the Alps, there will be no difficulty in .
their pillage. '"P
(Signed) Buonaparte. _
le&ei
Conditions of a suspension of arms concluded bet- Bi
ween the French armyand the Duke of Parma. the 7
Sufpeafion of arms concluded between the French Jii
army of Italy, and the Duke ol Panna, and of saw ;
| Plailancc, by the means of the Geu, Buonapai te, unde
iommander of the French army, and M M. fchoi
the Marquis Antonio Pallivicini, and Fillipo Dal- an
la Rolf, Plenipotentiaries ol the Duke of Parma, undc
under the mediation of the Count of Valdepa- fcho
' rifon, 'Minister of Spain at Parma. and
Art. I. There (hull be a suspension of arms, bet- Jl
I wren the army of tire French Republic, and the Indu
■I Duke of Parma, until peace shall be illablifhed
between the t\v» dates. The Duke of Parma (hall
pleoiuoitn iaries to Paris, to treat with tire
Executive Oireitoiy. to k
Art. 11. I'he Duke of Parma (hall pay a miii- ,j tr e
I taty cort-fibmion of two millions ot livtes, money of was
France, to be paid in bills of exchange on Genoa, tain
.vhether in plsre or money. There (hall be 500,000 tL ' r "
J ivrespaid in live days—the relt in the following
d Art. 111. Tbe Duke shall fumilh twelve htin- u^s
I fell draft l.orfrs with the four hundred §
| Irarroons, wrrh the accoutrements, aifd one hun- —si
laddie hoifes f>r tire fopcrior officers of the ar'my. Prii
'' J Art, IV He (hall transmit twenty paintings at I
I ihe choice o! the commander in chtef h jni among
.hole now pufcrved in the Duchy.
Art. IV. He Hull within I; days turn into the 0 f
magazines of the army, at Toitona, ten thousand gle
quintals of corn, five thousand of oats, and have Yo:
' J twd tlroufai'd beeves at thedifpofal of the commif- Lei
, f;-.ry general, lor the ufe'of the army.
B I Art. VI. Excepting the above contribution! | 3 n
j the eftatesof the Duke of Parma shall be treated as
j neutral Hates, until the end of the negoctations t j, e
which are about to be entered upon at Paris. dot
(Signed) BUONAPARTE. :
I Antoiiia Pallavi. ini, Fillipo Dalla Rosa, ;
Head Quarters at Plaifance, 20 FloreaL
A true Copy.
II BUONAPARTE.
)r I Head-Quartrrs at Chambeny, 24 Horeal Msy 13.
rc- 1 — \
nCellerman, commander in chief of the srmy of the 'K
'd- j Alps, to the Executive Dire&ory. -3
ed 1 Ciliten Prrjident.
ce, I learn, by an txpref#, that Gen. Buonaparte has < fe!
ick. dilpatehed to the Directory, the orjer of march ro ,
lor the half brigades,Jwhich I have detached to the dy
Po, army of Italy. The right column will pass by the
at valley of Sture—that of the left by the valley of
vcs AHle. I hwe communicated to these half brigades —
lter ike opinion which the Diteftory entertained of
| their courage and discipline. I can alfute the Di*
in re&ory beforehand that they will merit the teftimo- _
,re ' ni?s of fatisfaftion which they are promised.
ited '['he DireiSoty may count pn my efforts in the
[I 1 0" execution of thelall plan contemplated. 1 will fe
' cond my colleague in tjia fame manner as tho' both
I armies were one. T
pur j Health and refpeft. c
tih J (Signed) iCELLERMAN-
? re TTTcks.
t as
a Six prjCent. - - -- - - "
our Three per Cent. ------ " lc /1
n— jt per Cent. --- -- ... it,6
arnt per Ccr.t. - none far sale. - - its
-we I DclVrred Six per Cent. - - - t0 7
_ n j BANK United States, - - - -24 pr. cent. j
' Putrr.fylvania, - - - - b
' '' c North \merica, - - - - 46
I Infrrrance Cornp. North-America, 40 ptr cent. adv. ,
ieral | ———— PennfylWitia, 9'o toper cent.
ade, I F.xchangi. at 60 days, - - - 165 t» j66 2-3
and — ————— —————
J re . 1 By au Artlll relrdent at Mr. Oelierj's Hotel,
;,(l ' MINIATU II E LIKENESSES
mcn ARE taken and executed in that elegant and delkatt
lLiic, which is so uccciVary to render a Miniature Pic-
Au- ture an imercfting jewel.
lock l' £ will warrant a itrcng and indifputaWe refem
r|VC(j hlance ; and he takes the liberty to lay before the public
1 of this place his molt carneft intention to defervc their j>a
mrpe trona g C hy his bert endeavors to plcafe.
ward jj, b. Specimens are to be seen. «
1 Le- May IS. I
1
THURSDAY EVUNIKO, July
On ivff.netav, the ajth' ir.it. departed th'.a il i'fc
an il'nels of eight davs, Mia. Ii: ;er Meaf" w.fc'>f
Mr. John Ifleafe, of this city, in the 4ot(r ),arof her
a ? e :
The amiable difpnfitiott and propriity of dejsoAmeut
of this excellent lady, endeared tier to <>il «'i.o had the
picture of he. Acq iarntan^e.
TO CORfi£<rCS'D£XTS.
We have received No. lijrned 'iionefttrs'. TiJo«r
---■ ever -aell founded the al'egaiio.'o 1; con: -. -is, we thirl
. that iiia per/Shal interview w;tli tlie author, be r.j -t
I be-corivmied . .atrhi'yare or a nature to co'Jnter.ut
what appears to be bis oUjeft,
1 ARRIVED AT THIS PORT.
Ship Old Tom, DmoVjij Kingdon 24
' j brig Pianrer, Hawkins, Stv.roix i»
New-York Paeiiet, Strorag, Clurletton 8
! At lelii, Hoult'oi., Jeverrie 10
Bttfey, Meniminger» Do. 1*
PORT of fiMORF.
July 26.
(hip Julrn, Cspt. 6$ uavs from
Dublin. Spoke, July 3, the f hooner Sally, Capt-
JoneSi from Boston for J .rtiaica, oUt 12 days, hlngi
s | 68, lai. Ky July 18, was boarded hy an Etigli(h
frigate, who prtffcd two men from the John.
■ Arrived oh SaltrfvaVt
Schooner Liberiy, Tier, 20 days fhotn Jamaica
p —rt'.m and ftrgat — Louts Foullt. Left, brig ln
duflry, Williams, of Baltimore.
Ship Carolina, I.tiflrei, 6 days from Charlellon.
r Arrived on Sunday.
Schooner Nirtirod, Farland, 16 days from jac-.
n qiiemel J coffee aud cotton; Nichols,'HaDctos^
t and Co.
Lift of veffi ls, left at Jocqucmelj July 3.
Schooners Eagle of Baltimore, - Bitttlbery
Abeoua, - Bunker
,f Peggy, - - Gorfuch
n Adrlire, - - Stanley
Ship Maty of Philadelphia, Patten.
Several other American vessels, names not recoil
leftal. . ,
t- Brig Commerce of Philadelphia, Barnard, failed
the 9>h July
h July 13, when pafiing the island of Heneaga*
as saw a sloop and two small fchooneis lying at anchor
e, under the lee of the iflnnd. Same time saw a
f. fchoouer standing after ns, which we fupjjofcd to he
rl- an American bound home. One of the schooner*
a, under Heneaga got under #ry, and spoke the
a- schooner, and immediatily both hauled their wind
and lli-od iii for the island.
:t- July 19, in lat. 17, 20, long. }6, 25, fpeke the (h'p
he Indufiry of Portfmcuth, from Savannah, bound to
f( j Barbadocs, out i days.
a ]l July i'l at Ic > A, M. Cape-Henrv bearicg N. W.
■ about 3 leagues diftaut, was brought toby the Prevoy»
16 ante frigate, Capt. YVeyms. He fjnt his boat on board
to know where from, cxaryincd our papers, fheu or
li- dered me on board the frigate with them, where I
of was politely received by Capt. W'eyms, but w=s de
ia> tained for further examination, About two hours as*
00 ter, fell in ar*! spoke with the Thet.s, Capt.Cochran
—then » ent on Iviard the Thetis with Capt. Whynis,
where I. was alio politeiy received and treated. Aftrf
again examininjj my papers, and a/king a few qtiefti'
1n " ons, was permitted to proceed.
Ed Sioop Sally, Saunders, 16 days from Port-au Prince
jn- —fugaf—Cafenave and Walker. Left at Port at!-
r. Prince 1 , Ihip Hope, Coward, do.
lat & ri ? Clio, Ball, 7 weeks fmra Madeira s-wines, &c.
( —Stewart and Sons. Spiled from Madeira between
"k the 17th of May and ift of June. Left there, (hips
Aflrej, of Salem, Capt. Prince, for India ; Harriot,
'' lf of Peter(btirgh, Kent fordo. Jane, of Wifcafiet, In
>nd e , for Bristol j—brigs Panther, of Boflon, for New
avc York Farmer, of New-York, for Cape-de-Vurds'
iiif- Left at Fuurhail, strips Veuus, Campbell, of boston,
for India ; Argonaut, Collett, for d" ; —brigs. Fair
American, Eve, ol Philadelphia, for Cape-de-Verds ;
, Polly, Hooper, of Marblchead, for Bolton ; the ship
as Nelly and Kitty, of Baltimore, touched at Furchall
°" s the day Captain Ball failed, on her pafisge from Lon«
don to the Well-Indies.
Ship Lyd'.a. Todd, 6 days f Charlefion.
Sehnoner Ir.duflry, frona Pmrad-lphi?.
For Sale,
Or for Charter to the Wt/l-Indies,
'>•< c s >
. Philadelphia Built,
OF L,ive Oak and Red "Cedar, burthen about 35oot>kf»
reh, now discharging at Latimer's wharf* i his vef*»
fldß J feV is in excellent repair, well fouud and will bear a tho
jrt " rough examination, and as soon as discharged will be ica
ihe dy to take in a cargo. For terips apply to
the John Vaughan.
iof July 28
For Freight,
, Binjamim Glasier, Majler,
T.' 1 ROM Liverpool. Now discharging at P. Care's v.harf,
11 fe- X? and will immediately afterwards take in Freighi for
both NEWBURY PORT and BOSTON
Tofail in all next week. For Irelght or passage, apply t»
capt. Glalier, on board, or to
M. Isaac Harvey, jurt.
■ — Ne. j South Water Street.
7 mo. >7 ■ * §iw
For HAMBURGH,
J. -. THE sai*
,%mk j 0 i{ N >
Robdkt Jachson, Matter,
To &<i in fifteen 'days,
—""HAVING '.wo-thirds of her cargo en
gaged and ready to go on board. For freight or paflage
•apply to the mailer on board at Wain's whart, or to
John Donna'dfon,
' No. 24 Walnut-fticet.
" July li. , §6eotf_
' Q For Boston,
VrHE 3Cliool,JE,t
SS JOHN,
CAPTAIN COSFW,
refem- tvt ILL fail »c Sunday r.eit. For f.eiglit er passage ap
public VV ply to
lt:iri "" Edward Stow, jun.
No. 76 Noith Pront-ftreet.
J July it t tSJust Published,
BY THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone House, No. 4i,fouth Second street,
neztly printed ir» one volume qusrto, price *fix 0
dollars the line paper, or five dollars the j
mon: il
The Four Gospels, J.'
TRANSLATEDfrom the GREEK, with PRE- ''
LIMINARY DISSERTATIONS, and notes '
CRITICAL and EXPLANATORY,
By GEORGE CAMPBELL, b. D. F. R. S.
&c.
Principal of Mai ifthal College, Aberdeerv.
* # * .The character of the Auliii«< for acutenefs I
and eiudition has h»en eltabliihed by his e(Tay on
miracles in anfuver to David Hut.c," the greatest
mafterpieee of the kind ever published, and by his
" Philosophy of Rhetorie," and to the merit of
the present work, the result of nearly forty years
fludy and appli*ation, and the fabrtance of his
eourfe of leftiues in his official capacity, the \
reviewers have given ample teltiraony, but their ac j
count, however honorable "to the work, is too long i
for a place in this advertisement, the work howev
er 'u now presented in an American edition at not
tmo'e than half the price of the Loudon copy.
Joly 20. _ 4w2w
UNITED STATES, * Yir "
Pennsylvania District, j '!•
IN THE NAME AND BY THE AUTHORITY
OF T HE UNITED STATES,
By IV 1L L IA M XICII 0L S,
Marfhil of the Penufylvania Diftiiit,—
APROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS tke Congrelf* of the United States, at
the iirftfeflion of the (curth Congicl's. to wit, on
ihe'lwclftli clay of May last past, -palied imaifc, to repeal
«{b rmich of an aA, intituled 44 an a& to establish ths
Judicial Courts of the United States,", as dire&s that the
altern'-itefelfionfc <3! the Circuit Court for the DiftriA of
Pcnnfylvinia, lHali be golden at Yorktown ; and for other
purposes, in the follov ing. words, to wit.
Fourth C ongrefs of the Uniced States :
At the firll fcflion, begun and .held at the city of Phila
delphia, in the 'State of Ptnnf) ivania. on Monday, the
ftvehth of December, one- thcufan'd fevefl hundred and
% #jne y-fiy-e.
An AJ. to repeal so mucb of an adt, intituled " an aft to
eftabjifh the judicial courts of the United States", as di-
TecU that aitfr*riat'cfdfio'ns of the said circuit court or
thediftriil of Pcnnfylvania shall be holden at Ywk
town ; and far other put ofes.
Sed. I. B£ it enacted by the Senatd and House ef Re
presentatives of.the United States of America, in Cob
grefs aflemtled, That so much of the fifth ie&ion of the
intitu od "an atft to establish the judicial courts of <
the United States", as dire&s that alternate sessions of the
circuit court for the diUriift of Pennsylvania ihall be hold
*n at Yorktown, be, and the fame is hereby repealed;
and that al! the i. Hions ol the said circuit court lhaU, from
and after the palling of this ad, be holden at the city of
ffiiladelphia, excepting Only, when at any lefiion of the
said court, the judges thereof ihall dire<st the next fcflion
to be holden at Yorktown , which they are hereby autho
rized and empower-d to do, whenever it Ihall appear to
thtm to be aecelTary.
Se.fl. 11. And be it'further enaited, That all such pro
eefs of Sie f id court, as may haVe issued before the pass-
Jng of this aift, and all recognizances returnable, and all
fu.ts and other proceedings that were continued to the
said circuit court for the dillriS of Pennsylvania, On the
eleventh of O&ober next, in Yorktown, Jjall now be rc
turned, and he-id continued, to the fame court, on the
fern: day, at Philadelphia. And to the end that luitors,
witnefTcs, and all others concerned, may have no ice of
the alteration hereby made, the Marshal of the said dlf
trift is hereby retired to mal-.e the fame known, by pro
ijamation, on or b-.forc tlie'firft day of Augull. next.
Jonathan Dayton,
Speaker of the House of P eprcfer-tatives.
Samuel Liviirmore,
PreCdem ol tiie Senate, pro tempore.
Approved, May the twelfth, 17,6,
George Washington,
PreEdent of the United States.
Benefited among the Rolls, in tile Office of the Departr
tfi'jit of State,
Timothy Pickering.
Secretary of State.
I DO HEREBY MAKE KNOWN that a,l such
process of tiie fsrid court as ha<, or may be issued, end all
sltfoogEK'.anc-s leturnable at ren'ife/f aforefaid, on tl>e rk
with d<iy IJ OSfber iltM, wifl be returned to the Circuit of
the United Status, attheCity Hall, in the city of Phila
delphia, on rUcfclay, the e'.nenti day of Odolaer next, at
ttsvtn o'clock in the forsnooß, And that all fnitsand other
proOKdinps that wree jctinued to the said court.at York
town, will be held and continued at the said Circuit
, .Court, at Philadelphia, on thefame Eh mtk day of Octo
ber ltt^f, ofvhidh all persons concerned are de&red to '
take notice, and'jrtc rtttir attendance thereat.
GIVEN under nlyi hand, at 'liy office, in the DJAriet
ot PiinnArlviuiia, ttic twenty-iev l nth day of JtiW, ,
in t.h". year of ohr l.ort! one thoufarid i. ven hun
dred and ninety-Ci, and of our Independence ths
tweilty-ftrft.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhah
-t r. Saw
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED TIV ITT ENH A M, fitnate "in the
townfhif of Upper Derby, and comity of Delaware,
7 1-2 miles, ftftoi Philadelphia, and half a mile fro, 11 the
sew WcUern road 1 containing 130 acres of exceßem land,
4.? of which are good watered meadow, 90 of,prime w-»od-
Uai, and the rtffl arable of tha firft quality. There are
oil the premises a good two ftoi y brick house, with 4 rooms
on a flcor, and iilhrs under the whole, with a pump-well
of encdltnt water iri front; a large frame barn, stables,
and otlier coiiTenient buildings ; a fmoke-honfe and llene'
fpring-haufe j two godd apple orchards, and one of peach
<*. The fiel4s ape all in clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out an to have the id vintage
«rf water j» each of them, whick renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The situation is plaafant and healthy, and from theh'ijrh
eultivition tof the land, tha good neighbourhood, artd the
vicinity to the city, it is viry suitable for a geßtleman's
'•suntry £aat.
The fongoiDg is part of the estate of Jacob Harratu,
dcceafed, and oitered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Surviving Kxecutor.
FIFTY DOLLAkS~RTWAKiSr
RAN from the fubferiber living near Church
Bill, nns Cottnty in the State of Maryland'
>teut the 61:1 of January last; a black negro man,named
Sam, about thirty year, of age, 5 foet 8 or 9 inehes high,
.J>,6 a crooked finger on one hand, and one l«r and foot'
fmallcr tha/1 the otlier, fomcwhat round-(heuldeied, 5-Js
eloathing unknotrn. .Any jierfon who wHI secure .r
bring said felloe hOme.fo that 1 may get hiiu again ihafl ,
have the »b«Ve #c%vird with reasonable charges.
WILLIAM JACOBS.
J IU,e 4' "iawam,
a
■ f _• ' >
t
I
Mr. FRANCIS,
[Of ike Nc<& Thcatrt)
TAKES this opportunity of returning t'Wks tohu
scholars and to the public. Mr. franc s iuteims,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. «e
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pflpil'i hi
therto rtnders any prsmifes of his future
schemes on t'ne most liberal and firiilcft tetms, of pro
priety, totally iinnerelT.iiy.
' N. B. Private tuition as usual.
June 3 law c
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
s Including the Nort» esn Liberties and diftritft ot
• Southw.Mt K ;
, Publilhetl, and fold by
J BENJAMIN DAVfES,
f No. 6E, High street,
(Price one dollar.)
8 THIS plan is t6 inche< fqnare, and has been en
s graved by onf of the firft artists In the city, from a late
e and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
(j city, its population, trade, government, &c.
- July. i{> tu&ftf
it 1 — ——
For Sale,
A LARGE ELtC.IXT ASD WELL FINISHED
Three-story Orick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOT of GROUND thereunto belonging
tiie weft fule ©f Third-street, near Unioa-ftrcet |
containing in front 32 feet, and in depth 100 fee#, to un
alley leading into Union-street. The house is 32 feet front
and 50 leet deep ; the several rooms contained in it .arc
at large, commodioas, and completely fini&cd; thctwofi'rft
311 flories are each 13 feet high; there are 20 mahogany
sal doors in the house ; a geometrical itaireale, T. ith raali®ga
tie ny rails and a good iky-light. The kitchen in the eell
tie ar, which is spacious and convenient, and finifhed with aw
of oven, stew-holes and pantries, a servants Hall and large
er wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which i* au
area in which there is a pump. The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building isn neat thrce-ftory
a- brick hotfe, on the nortli fide of Union-street, contain
lc ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; the lower part of which
id is at present occupied as a coirrpting-houfe, and the upper
part divided mto well-finifhed large chambers. This house
to may at a small expense be converted ii/to a convenient
li- dwelling : The street door is very hanrifdmc, and the front
or and back have Venetian window-Ihutters. Adjoining the
k- last house, the lot belonging to the Rrfl, are
hatjling-rooms, &c. There are very good coach
e- house and stables finifhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
a- the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
he in depth 011 the woft fide of said alley 52 feet. There arc
of good cellars unde* the whole of the buildings, and a wine
tie 1 room over part of the liable, with a hay-lott over there
ci- mainder. For further particulars enquire of
KDW4RD BONS nLL & Co.
m At their Office No. 64 Dock-lireet. between Walnut &c Pear
eo Rreets.
lie €th month 24th, 1796
m •—
t ° Q " (jf.okge Dobson,
BEGS leave to inform the Storr Keepers in Town and
Countr\, that he has lemoved from Market-Street to
N O, 25, south Third-street,
1 where he is opem-ig a Large and Elegant Assortment of the
' 1C undermentioned articles—viz.
Superfine London Cloth# and Kcrfeymeres,
e- Yorkfhirfcfecond Do. Do.
(Ie Klaftic do. do.
•s, Mix'd and Biue Coatings
of x Flannells, &cc.
If- Ma.ichefter Printed Callicoes,
0- London Chintz ditto,
BJueand ditto Furnitures,
India 4itto,
Long Cloths, Coflaes, Biftas, Battillas& Con-evrrim,
4-4 9" 8 5-1 & 6-4 Superfine India Book Mufliiis,
4-4 iM.d 9-8 India Hook Handkerchiefs,
4-4 and g-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 Ac 6-4 plain do Muslins,
4-4 & 6 4 Britilh Jaconets,
€-4 Bi itilh Checks and Stripes,
t- India do. do. do.
4~4(i'itto Chiiioes, Madras Handkerchiefs,
A afToument of figur'd and plain Muflinets,
Quiltiriß'i, Dimities, ind Striped Nankeens,
;K Fancy Wailtcoatrngs,
ill Ginghams of the firSOueliry, fubjeft to Drawback,
India Nankeens,
0 f Men's White ami colsured Silk flookinjs.
a- _ Ma y 9
at —
k r . Samuel Richardet,
it "D ESPECTFVLLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
to l'AV£pN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in'he
city of Philadelj-hia.
5 f hc Rbom will be furnilhed with all the
1, daily papers puUjidisd in Philadelphia, Nilv-York, Bof
o- ton, Baltimore, t JK ethcv with those 0 f the priuciu >1 com
mercial citws of Europe—Tkcy will be regularly filed
and n<>ile permitted to be taken away on any account.
1 ea, Coffee loupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
Liquors; together with the ufaa! '
wul ar all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choiccfl of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the tiioll
approved Malt Liquors and orher breweries.
I , hc^* rdcr Wiil ' jsfo pplie<l with the prime and eirlieft
be productions of tho Season.
c, 1 - lr S t xnd small Parties, or fingleGentlertwn, may fee
accommodated with Breakfafb, Dinners, or Supper, at
d, hu "« moa conv nient te themselves— n cold Coiiation' is
(J. regularly kept for con»enier>cy, the Bill of Fare to be had
re at tho bar.
„ s ihe Lodging Rooms will be eompl.-tely furnilhed, and
-11 " le <^4 noft attCG tioa paid to deanlmefs, and every other
s, reqmUte. ( '
,e SAMUEL RicHAßDE.Twi!Hjehappyti» receive, anil
execute trie -coniniands of his Friends, and th- Public at
with graiitnde for their favours, he pledccs
J C himfelt that noth.og on h.s part Ihall be wanting to pre
«• W!th Wh '' h hi * V!en so diftinguifh
rh Philadelphia, April 19. eo
le
'* s For Sale,
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
IN New Jersey, near the Forks of Little Eeff-Harbmir
1 h; Grill MillU lixty by fort) feet, two water wheels'
and calculated for four run of Stone., with lcr. fn, fans
- &e. The Saw-Mill has two law.and
capable 01 crafty five to 6 roo thoufan l feet of Boards oer
A ®f Cedar Swamp, within a mile
d' '" d aba: \ of and within tWee quarters of a mile
i from^lremiUtail. ' yfctak<n byw3ter
AL-SO roa
Js Several Valuable Tracts of Land
•r | In PennfylvanU, foraH of which payment will be rec-ir-
Cam UOtC ' M ° rrls Nitho^®u . or in
For further information apply to tire Printer.
' May 17.
J ' . 22W
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE F-3H SjJLJI,
ynic'iong -v
H 'tan Skin /
Young Hyfo« FRE* H 'IEAs
Hyfor, and \
'liiip-rriil J
Yellow NTankeens
Ch-ni Ware, «(H>rte<l ispo.t.-'s ami Chests
Qui.-kfih-r-r
B.:ii Unno- Handkerchiefs of exceSknt quality »
Ch " ll L ndsn Mark* MADEIRA WINl?
London particular /in pipes, • hogfn.-adj, &
Market j . yuarter calks
Teaeriffe Wine iiVpjptc and hogfiseads
Sugar Candy by the IJox
Sail Can .':is No. I a 3
Lead iw Hiffis
3 Calks us Cutlery a.Terted
A fc*ctie»sof Mutichelicr Goods, aflotrted thick -
sets, cords, llriped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black levving-fjiki
8 Tirn-fi Virgin!* Snak«-*»ct.
Nails alforted in cases
July 13 mw^lf
JOHN PAUL jCjNES» .
INFORMATION is her.'by given, that the late John
_ Paul Jones was a proprietor of lire (amount
ing to about ,5067 icres) in a trail of land purchased by
the Ohio Company, la the territory of the United"Status ,
ui America, north-well of the river Ohio ; and that his
heirs, or !.',;il representative, on application to the direc- 1
tors of faid'company, 8S Marietta in the territory aforo 1
j said, will receive a deed of the said five scares, or .rights
I of land.
}~ Ihe application maybe madcpcrfonally or by an »§ciit, '
I hot pro-pLr documents riiwtt he produced to prove the
claimant or tUniaots the legal heirs or representative of (
the said Jones
N.B. As it isnnt known -in what country the person
or perl'ons intenetlcd refiile.it will be an ox benevolence
in every Printer in America and Europe, who Shall insert j
thisadvertifementin his pilper. I,
111 behalf of of the Ohio Company,
RUi'US PUI'NAM.'
Marietta, May 10,1796. [JIIIIS4 ] 3awgw j
Law Book-Store,
No. 3! 3, High Sir net.
GEORGE DAVIS begs to inform his profeflional
friends, tfyat per the Ceresjuft arrived froia Lon
don, he has received the following scarce and valuable
books. State Trials, Ii vol. in 6 and 11 vol. RusT-
Uead's Statutes at large, 16 vol. Woods' Inftittites,
Coke's Entries, Reftell s do. Browne's do. Hearnes
pleadar, Coke's zd, 3d, and 4th Institutes, z vol. Roll's
Abridgment, Brooke's do. Bulflrode's Reports, Roll's'
do. a vol. in 1, Floyers Prodler's praiflics, Clarke's
Admiralty, Rutherford's Institutes, Deinology, or the
Elct;ucncc- and Logic of the Bar. These with his very
large collection from Dublin now on hand, will enable
him to supply an entire library or a single book, as
gentlemen may havc««cifion on their immediate ap
plication.
July 14. iwiw
I
City cf Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IV.PRCVLMEST OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent J ao,ooo dollars, & J
dwtllmg-houfe, 5 ea!h 30,000, are 5 -J®' 9o ®
I ditto 15,000 & c'af* 15,000 40,000
1 ditto i.t,oteo & calh 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & ciih 10,000 Jo,ooc
I ditto 5,000 ■& calh 5,000 10,008
1 ditto j,oco & calh 5,000 10,000
1 calh prize of loJboO
2 do. 5,000 each, irt, • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - — j o,oco
10 do. 500 • - - 10,000
00 do. 100 . . 10, coo
zro do. 50 10,000
4co do. 15 » . it,ooo
I,©OO dtj. 20 * 3tS,CC®
is>coo do. to - - 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,161 blanks.
Tickets, JtEgMßfefllrs, 40,0000
K. B. To fi*oar those who may take a quantity of
Tidcfifey.he prise of 40,000 dollars will be the 1.,3t drawn
ticket, andlhe 30,000 the LAST'but one :
And approved notes, fecuriug payment in either money
or prizes in ten days after drawing, will be received for
aivy number not I«6 than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimeft of the pri
vate buildings to be erected in the City of W»ftin*ton—
Two, beautiful,defijnf are already feleited for the entire
Fronts on two of the public squares ; from these prawinej
it ispropefed to erect two centre and four corner building
* soon " pofGbU afttfr this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete,.to the forfimjte adventurers, in
the manner dcfcribed in the scheme for the Hoxl Lottery.
A nctt deduSion of five per cent, will be made to defray
t.-.e aecclTary tTcperifes of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part of the fund Intended for the National
Univeriity, to be erecled within the city of Waihinmon.
The Drawing will conimeiic.; a» soon as the tickets are
iold off.-.-The .v oney prizes will be payable in thirty day,
after it is finifhad ; and any pr zet for which fortunme
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the
drawmgisclofed aretobe conflicted a, given towards
the wholly f ¥? ,ver "y ; " determined to rettle
the whole hufirtelt in a year from the e -.ding of the draw
mg, and' to take up the beadk given us i'ec'urity.
1 he real recunt.esgiven for the payment 01 the Prizes
of £ Pro . fideM a "'' ; wo 9'reaorsof ihc Bank'
mount ot the'lattery"' tlUa half thc a
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment o r
rtj Unll^ ' orl<r, a(Med in tke mlna gcment of th-
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous, talk
a fccond time nil behalf of the public ; a fufficieat mini
her of these having kindly accepted, it fj bor.-d that th,
friends to , Nation,l Univerflty and the other federal ob
j nrAy continue to favor the cfefign.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
;
drawiag will ipeedily commniic, and that the car, and
caution unavoidably necessary to inftire a fare difnofd 01
the tickets, has rendered the m,r Mpe,™, LiffS.f
for sale
A ;,af!oUffe « h »
of thcUaiuiSUtes, So/ ( f-'"
To 15 E Sou\
At No. ijß, North &tcon;?-S!S;- \ . ,i St faxral > •>'
the Apnhttiatits in /in s Citr.
TRANSFERS of the right to*#no»e |»jini jnd)M Jmn .,
* tiorj* the human body* a* fccured tij r) r f| ;
PERKINS, by paTcm, with ii>liiu>nsnt»"id'direftiJ.j ,'.
celliiyfnr the prafticc. Th:« mode iff t:eatm;nt is p V r ci c ,
lurly ufeful in r.-licving pains i.i the 'iiriij teeth, brtj "
fide, stomach, back, rhcunt-itifms, recent <*6utv £-c A- '
N.jtwithlUndiiig the utility of this pw;t.dt. it i s „,j ..
fumed but there are cases in which this and every o ••
, remedy may fometimej fait.
June 13, Uv
PROPOSAL
JOi< CARRYING TIIE
Mails of the United States
On the so! I< ■ wiiiy route*, will be tecfived by the Poitn
atS.tvann.ih, until the firH day of Senttnibtr next.
1. IrdmSivarfna.t by Suitbury to \V<vjxm Bridge on't n "
week. ° ' "
Receive the Mail at Savannah every Saturday by a A M
rive at Sunbury toy 6P M, and at Newpurt Bridge on S U T •'
day by to AM. Reluming. Leave Newport Bridge on S m ~ ■
day bv 3 P M. and afnvc at Sudbury in the ev-euine. and a ,
Savannah on Monday bv6 P M.
2. From Newport «ridget>y Darien and Brunfwick to St
Marv'ty once in (wo weeks.
Receive the Mail at Newport Bridge every other Sunday
*/<oit, and arrive at St. Marv's the next Wcdnefdjv bv s P M
Returning. Leave St. Mary's the next day, Thursday by 8* *
M, and arrive at Newport Bridge thf next Sundav by io A M
Note I. if either of the routes unalteredbxlacu, iurinr the con'-
tmmit of the Contracts, the Contra flor is to obfirre f-rti alterations
in carrying the mail, unites fa\ is tube encreafed Ir Hmhifhtd. i»
proportion to the distance encreafed or dimini/hed by fach alWaim.
Note z.' The CantraSi are to be in operation on the firjl day it
08oi*ae*t. Mid to continue for fouryc.osur.til 44. 3 o th Scbicm.
f>er, 1800, ihclufirc;
Note 3. ThePo/l Mafltr General may alter the tithes of arrival
and departure at any time during for continuance of the Contrails, he
previvvftyfnpuiatiSage -adfquatt compcnfitiou for any extra exbenle
that may be ocrnficned flurcfi-;. '
Note 4. Fifteen ,n,rules fhdl be allowedftrr optnhganiclo&n*
the wail at alt offices ti'herc no particular time is■ fpaijied.
Note 5. Fur every tout's delay fun avoidable accidents exacted!
'n "»'?"!■* ' Ur fyfi.' dK y the MtraSor
sb all forfeit one dolLtr And rf the delay continue uniil f'e depart
ure of any depending r„til, thereby the math deflined f& such ie.
pending ma,l /hall hft a trip, the contractor fhatl forfeit ten dotkfi
—in be dcduUcd frm /its pay,
'JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
General.
General Post Office,
j Philadelphia, June 28, 17C>6. 1-aw6w
Lottery and Broker's Office,
A r<> 64 SaitiS Second jlree't,
TICKETS in the Car.al Lot;<rry No. I!, are aotv rea
dy for fate, a Check Book kept for the elimination
■ of Tickets, and Prizes paid, without deduction.
| The Subscriber folkits the application<rf the Ptrb+ic cr
I any ot his friends who with to pttrch feor fell Sank Stock,
| Certificates, Bills of Exchange, or Ncltes, Hotife, Labdj,
! Lotts or Merchandize of any- kind, «r to obtiin M'Atcj
•n depoCt of property.
WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
Late *4gent for the Canal Lottery Company,
Shares in: Tickcts ih the lfcte Newport
Whart, Hotel and Public School Lottery examined; a
complete lift of all the prizes having been i*eceived &
this olUce.
June 6.
For sale fubferibers,
IN P£NN-STRE£T,
130 quartir Chefta frefh Hyfuii Tea;
lao ditto do. freth Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes CV.iftst, containinjj small tea felt's of 4a
.piecep;
400 pieces DAiutanoes.
Willing b 5 Francis.
January 30 3taw.
- - ■ 1 . / ■ i.
Urbanna Mill Seats ,
SITUATJS in Cccil county, Maryland, ®n the banks of
the river Sufqtiehanna, about one mile above*tide wa
ter, and commanding the water of that irtip'drtaht rivtr,
the channel condudlicg th* trade of whieh comes'ft) near
the Mill Seats as to make it convenient to speak thebo'atT*,
and Mills may be so fituatedas to-reccivethem along their
■walls, andbv water- fiftf take in their cargoes.
There is a power fufficient for many and any-kind ps
ufeful Water Werks, and so much may be"juflly said ill
commendation of this Scite as would inconVttlient tit
insert in a newspaper publication.
Those vrho may desire to be concerned,' wiHpiiobablj'
find thcfiifelves well pleased on viewingthe situation.
for any term of years may be obtained on a'pptfr
cation to the fubferiber, living-on thepremifes.
CLEMENT HOLLTDJT.
April 19. iaw3m
New Hat and Hosiery-store,
WHOLESi!J.E AND KIfAIL,
By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
No. 134 Marhet-Jlreety
Third do<»r from the corner of Foarth, feuthficle
Men's Black American and Engltfh HATS, of vaxious cjTi>-
litics and prices
putcj r Drabs and Green unders
Ladies' ditto, bifck, and a aflortment of fancy do.
Coloured Beavers, With a great variety of elegant sjd
fafhior»ai>'e Trimmings
Youths Black and Drab-colourcd do.
Children's fancy do
/.llkindsof Silk, Silk & Cotton, Cotton & Thread HOSE
Knit, coloured Pantaloons
Do. Drapers
Do. Breeches Patterns
Silk Gloves
Knoited. coloured do. Cotton
A qumtity of Mending Co'.ton, fort?d colours.
tyZT The Hats finifhed in the newefl falhion.
June 27. t&km
> » — ~. .—- ■
On Aionday next, 25thinft. (July,.)
Will be lauded at South flrcet wharf, the cargoes of Superb,
Weft Indian and Ifaix lia, from Jamaica and Havaona, cou
-ofling of
Molafles in Hogsheads,
Coffee in hogsheads, barrels & bag?,
FCP. SALE BY _
PETER BLIGHT,
W'ho has also tor sale,
A quantity of Jamaica GINGER,
:
And , 5 o boxes Hambro' WINDOW GLASS, 7by 9,
be fold cheap.
; July iO ( <Ji°t & tuth & s i® l
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO,
—No. 119 —
CHESNU f-STK EET.
[Prke Eight Collar. p<r Atutim-j