of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmbsh 1346.] SATURDAT EVENING, DECEMBER 31, 1796. ' [Volume X.
.■> M w n I > f * /I 1 -v T TT» T> \T T1 1 1 Tt O 1 Tk T
To the Public.
IT ha? been the wish of almost every class of citi
zens in America, that a Gazette might be published in
the Metropolis, once « week which would exclude ad
vertisements altogether. A Urge sheet, en this .plan
would contain all the intelligence, foreign and domes
tic ; —it Would come t« the fnbfcribers at a small ex
pence, compared with that ot the Daily paper.,* a
great proportion of which is necefTariiy filled with ad.
vertifemente ; —it would beeafily preferred and bound
in a volume at the end of each year, or be convenient
ly transmitted to correspondents in any part of the
iVorld.
The ftrft number of 3 paper on this plan to be entit
le
THE UNIVERSAL GAZETTE,
will be published in the city of Philadelphia on Thurs
day the sth day wf January, 1797. It will be printed
with an elegant type, on paper in size and
quality to that oh whieh the Philadelphia Gazette is
printed ; and it will eontain every article of foreign
and domeflic news, including the arrival of veflels —
price offtock&c. and a correct account of the pro
ceedings of Congress, with an authentic copy ®f the
laws ot the United States, from the begimng of the
prefeat session of the Federal Legislature.
The price of the Universal Gazette, exclusive of
postage, will be four dollars per annum, to be paid In
advance, in Philadelphia, yearly ; unless inftruflions
lhall be given by the subscribers to their eorrefpond
ents in'he city, who will engage to pay the lubfcrip
tion money as it becomes due
Orders for this paper, poll paid, are to bc addrefTed
to Andrew Brown, at the office of the Philadelphia
Gazette, No. ly.Chefsut-ftieet, who will be anfwer
ahle for all money advanced on account of the Univer
sal Gazette.
* A Daily Paper, by post, frnt any distance within
tne hundred miles, costs the ftibfcribers twelne dollars,
end twelve cents, per annum ; any distance beyond
one hundred miles, it costs thirteen dollars and fixty J
eight cents, per annum, including p'ft age.
The Universal Gazette, by excluding advert fements
will contain all the intelligence of the week, and cofi the
fubferibers by pod, any distance within one hundred
miles, only four dollars and fifly~two cents, per an~
num ; —any distance beyond one hundred miles, it •will
coftortly four dollars andfeventy-eight cents pet 1 annum,
including postage.
Dec. !<)• '
Elegant Brussels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, No. 2J,South Third-street.
December 15. ' dtf
FOR SALE,
The fact -failing fehooner ORION;
Seventy tons burthen ; fifteen months
» Cr * ram ® w^te
oak : she is a faithful built vessel, haridfomely finiftied off
and well found in every particular ; is ready to receive a
cargo on board, and can be put to fee without any ex
pence on her hull, fails or rigging : she flows fix hundred
barreta; has a kandforae cabin and steerage, and a halt
deck which will flow from feventy-five to eigh. y barrels ;
fete been newly cxulked, graved and painted. For term*
apply to BENJAMIN RHODES,
At No. 170, corner of Market ahd Fifth-ftreets,
Or to the Captain on bbard said fcheoncr at Messrs.
Willis and Yardfley's wharf, adjoining Chefnut-ftreet
wharf; where there is for l'ale
Excellent pkkled Salmon in barrels,
thebeft of American Mess Beef, and fome,very excellent
Boston manufactured Chocolate.
December 26 $
jfjifcL For Sligo and Killibeg6,
The American Ship Nanct,
Cuthbert Riggs, matter.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or passage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflorted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and z boxes Linens
25 Pipes Brandy
''Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Ru{Fia Matts,
Also,
A "few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, mwftf
~ FOR SALE,
7 he ship mart,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
hundred tons burthen. Applv to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, {he will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Odlob,er 31. d
For Sale, or Charter,
jg&vX, The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Master,'
Burthen 205 47*95 tens regifttr, built in
" Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live 01k
and red cedar, and was (heathed 13 nrvmths ago, (he
has just had a compleat out-fit, ami may be sent to lea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
phiiip Nicklin O 3 Co.
. Who have for sale on beard said vejel,
17 calks of fine fellow paint. _
* boxes and 12 bundles of writing slates.
1 bcrx ink stands and note presses.
14 bales of fail eanvafs.
And on hand,
Imperial ~) „
Hvfon, and, f TEAS.
Souchong )
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the ftrft quality.
19 tubs Quicklilver.
1 chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chests Manchester goodswell aflorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities,&c.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
180 crates Qneens ware well aflorted.
10 tons (heet lead.
Nails aflorted, flat and {harp points.
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, r an( j hogsheads.
New-York Market, )
40 pipes and 10 hogsheads Teneriffe wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
230 logs Mahogarty. „i,*rrf
Nov 7. " hiia
NOTICE.
Those Gentlemen who hold any of the undermen
tioned Notes o>" Draughts (whether due or net J are
requested to meet at the City-Tavern on Wedn e'sda y
nixt, at 6 o'clock in the evening ; at which time an
arrangement will be [xopofed which it 16 expefled will
be fatisfaftory to the holders.
Edward Fox's notes in favor of James Greenleaf.
James Grecn'e-i's notes in favor of Edward Fox.
Jimes Greenle*f?s draughts on Edward Fox.
Abraham Dubois's nose to Edward Fox,
Edward Fox;'s note to Abraham Dubois.
Jaraet Greenleaf's draughts on Abraham Dubois.
At the request of a major part of the Gentlemen
interested.
EDWARDTOX. I
Deeember 29. dtw
A P R I N T. ]
MR. SAVAGE begs leave to infbrm the fubferibers
to the Portrait of David Rittenhouse, l. l. d. f. r. s. ,
President of the merican Philosophical Society, that it ,
i 9 ready for delivery,
Subscribers may have their prints put into elegant gilt ;
and burnished frames, finiflied every way in a much ,
better manner than those things afe generally done, at '
nine dollars each, print included.
Third door weft of Tenth-ltreet, in Chefnut-ftreet. ;
December 29. x I 3
WANTED,
A MECHANIC, to ereift Spinning and Weaving
Machines by water, such as are used at my manufac
tory—Apply to JAMES DAVEf. PORI,
No. 401, North Front-llreet.
N. B. None need apply but a complete mechanic,
and a maa of {lability.
Globe Alill, December 29, 1796. $
SALT P E T R E.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Sait Petre for
sale at No. 25, South Third-street.
November 5.
~ A CARD.
I
If Monficur G N. SoHLt, .
Who left Bordeaux the.2oth June last, and arrived
it Boston ; bout the middle of Augnft, in the fehooner
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he is requested to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, who
will give him Comt i»formation of importapce.
December 24, Jy<)6- }
North-American Land Company.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Stockholders that
an election will be held at the company's office, on Sa
turday the 31ft December, agreeably to the articles of
aftbeiatien, far aboard of managers, to eonfift of five
Direflors and a Secretary.
g 3 t-
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DIBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Hits received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and striped Spanish Swanfdown
Clouded Erminats and Molelkms
Striped do. and do.
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured F.rminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. Callintt6 and CaSimeres
Superfine printed Quiltiugs, newest patterns
Also, per diffVrent arrivals,
A large and general aifortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season.
Nov«»fnbtrr 5. dtf
Insurance Company of North-America. ]
THF STOCKHOLDERS in this company are desired
to take notice that the second Tuesday in January, (being
the 10th day of the month) is the day fixca by charter for
the election of twenty-five Dire&ors for the enfuingyear.
The ele<stisn will be held at their office, and commence
o'clock, A. M.
The fubjeA .f th« bye-laws of the Corporation wiH be
submitted to their consideration at this meeting.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry-
Dec. 12. tthioj
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial } THyfon Skin.^
Hyson, v Freih Teas. •< Souchong,
Young Hyson, j QBohea
Dcc. 9. 3taw.^m.
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, tha f an ele&isn
for thirteen Dire&ors to serve for one year, will b« held
at the Company*s Office, on Monday the 9th January next,
at II o'clock.—And agreeably to the acl of incorporation
a statement of the affairs of the company, will then be
laid before them.
SAMUEL W. FISHER, Sec'y.
Philadelphia, December 19, 1796. d t 9th Jan.
Imported from London & Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, in crates and hogftietds, well
afTorted
Wine Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of all fi7es
Two cases of stationary
One chest of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnctta
A small confignraent of Rose Blankets* Flannels,
B. i7es, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &c.
Paints of various colors.
Bafltet fait in hogsheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hogfltcads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors cf different sizes
A few trunks of ladies French shoes aflorted
Silk nan keen, &c.
Likewise an assortment of Dutch goods, consisting of
Ofnaberjrs, ticklenbergs, bed-ticks, stripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Britannias, &ci
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas & John Ketland,
Walnut-ftrett Wharf.
Nor. jj.
A few hoglheads of choice N. E. Rum,
and a quantity of LARD, for sale; <
Enquire at No. 71, North Water-flreel. f
December 24 dtw <
Fresh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c.
Thi9 day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick,
front London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Second-streets,
A mojl capital and txteii/i<ve sljfortment of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Among which are,
Five kinds * Afparagu9 Three kinds CrefTes ]
Four Ecrecolc Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radifti
Six Beets Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocoli Fifteaa Pea 9
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
Six Carrot l 7 our Parsnip
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber
Common and emon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Patfley
JPot Marygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel V\ r urtzel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clovet Timothy, &c. See.
With a curious collection of the raoft esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOFS,
Being the mod extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in Londen, and
are warranted frefh anu gpod.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17. dtf. t
Just Landing,
At South Jlreet tuharf, from on hoard the ship Scdg- 1
ley, Captain Hedge, from St. Petersburg,
The following Goods :
Ruflid Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do Crash.
Do. Mou T d Candles, 4, 5 'and 6£to thejtb. of the
Engliih size.
Do. WJkite Candle Tallow.
Do* White Soup in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
lfinglafs, jft and 2nd fort.
Korfe Hair uncurkd.
Ruilia Bar Iron.
Do. , Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Peterlburg Clean Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & C«.
O&ober 11. §
Old London particular Madeira Wine,
Landing from on board the barque .Kagle, Capt. Batet.
aud for sale by ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
November 29. ■ * eofttf.
Cheap French China.
THE fubferibers finding it impofnble to
{lore with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the manu'-aiflories, give no
tice that they will fell at prime cost tho remaining
flock on hand, conlifting of
Deflert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers
Groupes anil Figures
Alaballer Vases
Looking GlaETes, in gilt frames,
Besides India Japan'd Toilet Desks, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIER & Co.
Ns. 9.1, South Sceond-llreat.
December sth. tts
For Sale,
By y. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from 11 inch cables down
to rope *f a inches, of .different lengths: Imported in
the Ihip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 27. dtf
S W A N N'S
Riding Schobl, Norse Academy iff Infirmary.
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. .SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks to those gentlemen by whoifi
he has been employed, during his refideiice m this Cky, and
flatters himfelf that the success of his efforts, in the numerous,
obftinat-c and dangerous difeaftfs in Horfcs, in which he has
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe
ure their future favors and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that Ins (pacious and commodious premises, ere&ed for the
purposes above dr-fcribed are open for the reception of pupils
of either sex, who wish to beinftrufted in the Art of Riding*
and the right method of governing their horses, so as to ride
them with ease, elegance, and (afety—-their horses will be
carefully and expeditiouiiy broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient to the will of the riders ; the natural powers
which are shut upiu them, will ke unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of and giving to that noble animal
all those beauties of a&ion which providence has so bounti
fully bestowed on them.
,A!fo,at his hospital, every difor ler to which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repealed experience.
The utility of the above inffitution has never beenqneftion
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, gentleman's
stud willmanifeft, and T. Swann as the firft eftablifher of
the veterenaryart, solicits a*d; .clies upon the fupportofthat
public (which he uever anxious in serving) to enable him to
biingit to pei fe&ion. The idea of a fubfeription for what
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wish to
promote the institution—the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned by ferviccs in any of the departments he profeffts,
agreeable to the rate of charges ttated in his hand bill. S«ch
fubfeription is now open, and the fignaturesof many relpcff
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore injorms his
f'icnds and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he hw not
, ihe honor of being known, that he lhall in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and folicking their support
and prote&ion.
N B. Hojfes arc. properly prepared .ftr those Ladies an<J
Gentlemen who wish co be ir»h rutted.
Nov. ft
New-England Rum, Salmon, Beef^
Chocolate, Rice, Boston mould and dipt Candles, a
few quarter-calks of Sherry Wine, a few barrels of
Cyder, and a few quintals of excellent T ible COD
FISH—for sale by
Jtzekiel Hall,
No. 4», North Water-ftseet.
, December l/fth, *796.
Just Arrived,
Per fchootur Daphne, Captain Morse, frtm AtOe-
Cayes,
A Cargo of Sugar and Coffee.
dljo, per brig Betsey, Captain White, from the Ifte
of France,
7X Hogflieads, 1 puncheon, and 45 canifteri, «f
Batavia Sugar
45 Hogsheads Pepper of Malabar
65,330 lb. Coffee
*3 eoo Cotton
4,e00 Indigo For Sale by
F. Ceppinger,
No. mi, South Front-street
Deeember 11 §
For Sale,
" By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINOS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&f
Bank of Pennsylvania.
AT a Meeting of the Stockholder* of the Bank of
Pennsylvania, at the Bank, December 29th, 1795,
It was unanimously refolvejl, That, from th« informa
tion this day .given by the Board of Directors, and cbe Do
cuments exhibited, the Stockholders do fully approve the
conducft of the Dire&ors; aud that the thanks of th»
meeting be returned to the said Directors for their a<stivi
ty, zeal, and fuecefsful exertions in the discharge of their
dnties in relation to the abuses lately pradtifed upon thit
Institution.
Resolved, That the foregoing Resolution be[publifhed fa
the Newspapers of this city
EDWARD SHIPPEN, Chairman.
BFNJAMJN CHEW, Jr. SccieUry.
Dee. 30. fit
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 15, South Thtrd-ftteet,
Has just reecived, per Eagle, Capt. FoMick, via Lon
don, an assortment of
Sc»rl.t
Drab ( Cloaks trimmed with hir and
Purple and ( ermine.
Pearl J
December 15. §
A Gold Watch was Found
A few days ago, in the lower part of Second-street.
The owner, on calling at No. 117 in said street, and
proving it to be his or hers by a description in writing,
miy reeeivo it on paying for this advertilenaent.
December 29 3 -
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE AND PRICE,
No. 79, Market-street, Phiiadeipmj,
HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals from
London, 1 large assortment .f H r Jl R Rvl NT E D
WATCHES, confiding of horizontal, capp'd afld
jewel'd ©old Watches, with fecosds, of fnpmior
workmanship and elegance j also capp'd ar.d jewel'd
and plain Gold Watches ; .capp'd Jc jewell'd, capp'd,
seconds, day of the mouth, and plain Silver Watches;
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks
with marble framos ; eight day and thirty hour, bras*
works, 4cc.
Defemhet 21, T dim
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Well Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on the very
lowed terms ;
Amongji uhich are
1 Some elegant 4-4 ind 7-8 Chintaes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslim
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
, Silk and Cotton Hosiery
I Umbrellas of the firft quality, aflbrted
( lrfih Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
5 Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blanket/ aflorted—Sec. &c.
06to8kr 26. A
'■ For Sale,
» 7
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
i Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine anrid coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone -
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
1 December X. §tf
FOR SALE,
A PLANTATION,
1 fk BWUT t2 miles from this City, situate in Abington
' Townfliip, Montgomery-County ; containing 70
» aeres,anewftonehoufe,two stories high, 2 rooms on s
' floor,fire places in each, a (lone kitchen and stone lprir-g
" houfe,overan excellent spring of water, a barn, ftablt,
Iheds, barracks, &c. A large apple orchard, and a variety
of other fruit, about 12 awes ©f good meadow well vratei
~t ed, and wood fufficieat for fire, and fencing the place.
Pofleffion may be had the ift of April next. Property in,
\ this City will be tak£n in oxchange. Enquire it No. 37,
Aixh-Strcet. ,
Philadelphia, September 13,1796. tfcftfNzu 7jib Jrun.
Oj MONDAY IVENING, January*,
Wfll be -presented,
An HISTOJIIGAL TX.AGEDT, (Written by Shike
fpeare) called
Richard 111.
Henry IV, Mr. Warren
Prince Edward, "Miss L' Eft range
Duke of York, Matter LfEftrange
Duke of Glofter, Mr. Ctoptr
Duke of Buckingham Mr. Wigiull
Earl <tf Richmond, Mr. Moretan
Duka of Norfolk, Mr. Francis
Ratcliff*, Mr. Morris
Catefby. Mr, Barley, just.
Treflel, Mr. Fox
Earl of Oxford, Mr. Bliffe-tt
Lieut, of the Tower, Mr. Warrell, jun.
Lord Stanley, Mr. L'EJlrange
Xord Mayor, Mr. Warrell
Tyrrel, ' Mr. Morgan
Queen Elizabeth, Mrs. Morris
Lady Ann, Mri. Francis
Duehefi of York, Mrs. VMJtrangt
End of the Tragedy,
'A Seotek Pantomimical Ballet, .(compobd by Mr.
Byrn) called,
The New-Year's Gift ;
Or, Highland Frolicis.
Stndy, Mr. Byrn
Jamie, Mr. Warrell, jua.
Young F«dlar, "Master Bates
Father Oibby, Mr. Sliffett
Mother GibWy, Mr. Francis
Poggie, Miss Milhournt
Annie, Mrs. Byrn
Highland Lads and Lafles-—me<Tr«. Doflor, J. Dar
ley, Mitchell, T. ' Warrell, Macdonald, Morgan,
' -M. Poignand, M. Lavancy—Mrs. Harvev, - mrs-
Mechtlcr, mrs. DocSor, miss Oldfieid, raifs Anderfon,
-mUe. Sophie, and raif'L'E ft range.
, To whieh will be added a FARCE called
Animal Magnctifm.
Marquis De Lancey, Mr. Moreton
La Fleur, Mr. Harwood
Doft»r, Mr. Francis
Picard, Mr. M' Donald
Francois, Mr. Warrell, jun
Jeffery, . Mr. BliJJett
Conftanco, Mrs. Harvey
Lifette, Mrs. Francis
Bo*, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit one Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.
£5° Tickets to be hud at H. & P. Rice's Sook-ftore,
,JJo. 5® High-llreet, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
Places for the Boxes to be taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from lo till 2 o'clock, and from
la till 4 on the days of performance.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
"Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
fervanti to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as soon as the company are seated, to
•withdraw, as they c-aHnot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
, nrAT RES PUBLIC A !
College-Hall.
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining,
Mr. FENNELL
Refpeilfully informs the Public, that
On SATURDAY EVENING, December 31, at 7
d'clock, (by particular defirt, and for the last time)
will be repeated
An Explanatory Address.
• After which will be recited an Allegorical Poem, in
three parts, called
The CAVE of NATURE;
"Or, A Plfturc of the Virtues, Vices, and Passions,
of the Human Mind.
' The n«*t Reading will be on Tuesday the 3d of
January, 1797* —The course will be continued regu
larly every Tuesday and Thursday evening.
No repetition (if any should hereafter take place)
will be given on the evening of either of the above
days. Subscribers' tickets (net transferable) admit
to all repetitions.
Subscriptions are reeeiredby Mr.Zachariah Poulfon,
jun. at the Library, where the Ladies and Gentlemen t
"who may be inclined to honor the undertaking with
their patronage, aje refpeafully requested to fend
their names and receive their tickets.
OecaConal admiflion tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfon,
Jun. at the Library ; at mr. M'Elwee's looking-gtaft -store,
No. 70, Sooth Fourth-flreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Book- j
feller, Market-street.
M/tS. G RATTAN
RefpeAfully informs the Ladies and Gentlemen of the
■ City, that the second
LADIES' CONCERT'
Will be o» TUESDAY NEXT, the 3 d of January
at Mr. Oellers's Hotel,
Act , I.
Grand Sinfonio, % Haydu.
Holy Lord, Mrs. Grattan, Handel.
;Concerto Violin, Mr. Dillingham
Trio and Chorus, Siege of Belgrade, Storace.
Act 11.
Concerto in Bb. Mrs. Grattan,, Daflek.
All non fai, Mrs. Grattan, g ar(l '
Quartett, p, el ;
<jfand Chorus Pirate, Storace
*4.* The Concert to begin at half past fix ; and at
half past eight, the mufic,will attend for the Ball.
Mrs. GratUji beg' 'ejve to inform the-_ Ladies and
•Gentlemen, that the fubfcriptioH-book is at her house
No 39. -North Sixth-flreet, for the reception of thofc
names Whp wish to honor her with their commands.
A fubfeription for eight frights 16 dollars, including a
and Lady's ticket, both Uansferrable—
Malffubfcriptiens g dollars, including one ticket.
Single ticket a dollars.
Mrs. Grattan takes the liberty of requesting the
fubferibers to fend for their tickets any day after
Thursday, the 15th of December, at No. North
Sixth-ftreat.
£F Single ticket! to be had the day of the Concert'
only, at the Bar of Mr. OeUew's Hotel.
,X)eteinber 30. j
CONGRESS of ths UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Tuesday, Deeember 17.
[CONTINUED.]
Mr. Cnik said, he was eqaally surprised »n3 afto"
nifttcd with his colleague at the decision which haj
just taken place. It was conceived by gentlemen
who opposed this report, that it contained fomc fe
«ret poison—some dangerous principles which did
not appear upon the face of it; they referred to
the fpecch of the President and to the memorial of
the commiflipners, and charged the report with in.
tending to carry into effe& the molt extensive plan
there contemplated. For his own part, Mr. C.
said, he was free to confefs, he ftiould have been
ready to have (hewn the wisdom and policy-os ctta
blithing a national univetflty. It had been said
that the President had taken nie opportunity of
recommending this meafme, as it was the last time
he would have toaddrefs them —-This recommenda
tion, Mr. C. said, was another proof, in his opi
nion, of the wifdfrin of that man. But, added
he, neither the speech of the President, nor the
memorial of the commissioners after t fie report. He
thought the commiflioners seemed to have- antici
pated the obje&ions which would be made to a na
tional university. They had had the fame ideas
which he entertained of the eligibility of such an
institution ; but, forefeeing that the plan would be
obje&ed to, they relinquiflied that idea, and request
only an incorporation for th& purpol'e of receiving
donations. They did not, he said, call upon this
house to put their hand in the public treasury on
their account. He thought tbe commiflioners were
entitled to some credit for this forcfight. They
called merely for an aft, which no other power
could grant them (as had been (hewn by his col
league Mr* Sprigg) to enable them to receive what
might be given to them for this institution—to re
fufe which was an aft of the highest injustice, since
it was a requelt which they would have had no dif
ficulty in obtaining from the ftatc government,before
the ceflion of the territory of the United States.
• Truly lamentable, 1«.- said, would be the situation
of the people of that Jilt rift, if they were to be
thus treated.
Nothing could be more extraordinary, Mr. C.
said, than the do&rine aflerted by gentlemen who
opposed this meafuie, viz. that if the house en
tered at all into the business, they would be oblig
ed to go through with it. As well raigh. it be
said, when Congress removes to that diftrift, if
they are applied to for a law to build a bridge, or
make a road, they will'bind tbemfelves to go thro'
with the expence. The two cases, he said, were
perteftly similar: and if the people who were fet
tled there could not receive vhe privileges to whieh
other citizens were entitled they might be looked
upon as outcatts of society.
The objeftious of gentlemen, Mr. C. (aid, did
not go-so much against the expediency of the mea
sure, and the conveniency of tbe people who ask
for the iullitution, as against the danger of legif
latiog at all in this buiinefs- He would again fay,
he was surprised to hear the opposition come from
the quarter whence it did come ; for he would fay,
there was a great want of public femi'naries in that
country. Was there any man, heafked, who took
a view on the south fide of the Potomac, and con
sidered the probable incrcafe of population which
was likely to take place there, who would not fay
that such an institution was a defiratile objedt ?
Or that would fay that the period of that popula
tion ought to be waited for before luch an institu
tion was set about ? It was his opinion that such
objects (hould grow up with the growth of a fet
tlemeal, and strengthen with its lirength. Tho*
furh a seminary could not be eftablifhtd now as
might be rftabliflied fifty years hence, should they
refufe the power to persons to receive donations
for the ereftian of such an one as they could find
refourccs to complete ? If there were ftiong claims
for this interpolition, they had nothing to do with
the funds which were to carry the fcl.eme into et
feft. It was well known there was a fund in the
hands of the President of the United States, which
he wilhed to have employed in fome'hing of this
kind, and he wondered gentlemen from that quar
ter (hould be opposed to its having an opportunity
of being employed in this diftiiA.
If gentlemen did uot wi(h the growth and im-
I provement of the diftridt which they have taken
, under their direction, and wouW fay so, he should
not be at a loss to account for their cor.dust. If
they were determined to (hew the people of this
dißrift, that they were Jeiit-d common justice,
I every man would avoid thisfjut, as enjoying fewer
privileges than any other.
He hoped, therefore, that when it was seen that
the report did not contain more than appeared on
the face of ft, nor than would be granted to any
other part of the union, that the oppofitiojj which
had been raised against it would be withdrawn. He
hoped the fubjeft would be permitted, therefore, to
lie over for further confideratioa.
It was moved that the business should lie ever
until the second Monday in January.
Mr. Sprigg wished the report to be re-commit
ted.
Mr. Coit was against a poftponerntnt—The fub
je&, he said, had undergone considerable discussi
on, and he doubted not the house was as ripe tor
a decision then as they would be hereaftfr. To
polipone was to protract the dispatch of business,
and consumed double and treble the time that would
otherwise be occupied on any fubjeft.
Mr. Harper hoped the postponement would take
place, because it would give gentlemen an oppor
tunity of putting the business into such a form as
to be more acceptable to the house. the
principal objection made to the report was founded
on an apprehension that the house would be impli
cated in future expense by agreeing to if, if some
method of introducing the fnhjeft could be hit up
on, which could obviate that objection, it via* de
ferable it should be done. He thefeforo wiflied
gentlemen to have time to do this.
Mr Nicholas thought it unnectfiary to postpone
the buiinefs. The objection in his mind did not
atile from any implied promise, but from the in-
Rant that Wife gave the authorl: y aflctd for, In
believed they should be considered as haying given
a fanftion to the piaceeding ; and then confiitency
of conduct, dignity of govcriitnenc, and other cob
fidetations, would oblige them to fuppert the in
stitution. Any determination now made to the
contrary, he said, would avail nothing. If the
bulinefs was entered upon at all, it would end in a
national university.
Mr. Nicholas denied that he had any intention
of disregarding the wifbe* of the peoplte of that
diftrift. If an opinion of that furt went forth,
the gentleman (Mr. Craik) must attribute it to
himfelf. When he was up yesterday, he had said,
that when the people of that diftrift wanted a pub
lic seminary, he would be ready to afford them eve
ry afiiftancc. Bot, said your officers, and they
alone, are the projeftwis of this bulinefs. Men
who went there to execute public bttfinefs. Was
refilling their request, then, Tefufmg the request of
the people of that diftrift ? He thought not. He
thought it had been Veil, therefoie, if these ex
pressions had been spared. He never 'either made
or felt them.
Mr. Nicholas asked with what view donations
would be given to this institution ?—Would it be
for a seminary of learning for a diftrift <of country
ten miles square i He believed not ; but that every
donation made to this institution, would be made t«
it as a national university. If gentlemen viewed it
in any other light, they were deceiving the public.)
He hoped, therefore, they fhouid negative the pre
fect question, and disagree to the report of the fe
left committee.
Mr. Brent said, he was at a loss to know how
gentlemen cduld raise the objections which they had
made to the report in question. He was sure they
could not arise from the report itfelf. This did
not reeognife the university as a national univeTfity.
The matter appeared to b>m to be fiKiply this, that
several individuals in the federal city, who were
greatly intcrefted in its prosperity, were of opinio)*,
than an institution of this kind would not only ad
vance the interests of the city, but be a mean of
difieminating learning ; tbey had therefore prayed
an incorporation for the purpose. Why his col
league should call this a national utiiverfity, and
that by a mere aft of incorporation, they should
pledge themselves to fapport it, was to him afton
ilhing and incomprehensible. If any particular
body of men fhoald apply for an aft of incorpora
jion, by granting it, should they pledge themselves
to carry their fiheme into effect ? The thing was
too unreasonable to be supposed.
Mr B. said, if he was of opinion that the in
coiporatinjjr persons to leceive donations for this
university would oblige their to fofter this establish
ment, he should be one of the firft to object to it.
He should object to it en eonftitutional principles ;
because, whatever had been the praftiae of that
house, he was of opinion, that imposing a revenue
for fuel) a purpose, would be unconstitutional, and
arrogating a right which they did not pofTets.
Under the afpeft which the fubjeft Ipefore them
bore, he trusted all objections to it would be with
drawn. A 'free government, he said, had its
foundations in wisdom, and the legislature of such
a government ought to encovirage every institution
which tended to infoim and enlighten the people—
a contrary procedure were to ftifle knowledge, and
introduce barbarism.
Thc speaker reminded the house. that the ques
tion of p»ftponement was before them.
Mr. Swanw'ick was against a postponement, be
cause he thought the question could as well be de
cided then as at a future day. As the application
now itood, he was ready to give it his negative, be.
cause he did not think it was proper tojallow any
charter to the commiffioncts. He should therefore
vote against the report. H» should have wifti
ed to have made some further observations on the
fubjeft ; but in this flagc of the business, he wras
doubiful whether they jvould be in oider, and there
fore he should withhold them.,
Mr. Giles was in favour of a poftpooement, nnt
that he wanted time to consider the fubjeft—He
was ready to vote against it, but because the advo
cate* of the meafuie wilhed it. He himlclf was
opposed to all kiuda of corporations ; but he did
think the prcfeni fubjeft had not berfn fully discussed,
& wished more time to be allowed for gentlemen to
bring forward the queltion in any other way which
they might think would be more acceptable to the
house.
Mr. Vcnable said he was opposed to a poflponement.
it had been repeatedly laid that there was nothing a
larming or under cover in this report.—For his part,
he believed it to be connected with t National Uui
verfity, and that it was introduced in this fliape be
cause it was apprehended it would not pass if brought
into the House without disguise-
Mr. V. wished the bufincft not to be postponed, be
cause the Maryland legislature was then tkiiS'g, and
Jhe commiflioners nightapply to it and get their bufi
nels done ; for whatever might have been said to, the
contrary, he believed they could as well incorporate
them, as foreigners to hold lands, a navigation compa
ny, Columbian bank company, Jtc. and if they could
do this, he believed it would not be said, that when the
federal government took peffeffion of that diflriil that
corporation wouldnotbe valid. If a local seminary
was only intended, he thoaght this the best way of pro
ceeding.
Mr. Craik believed the period for which the idl
.was pal Ted which had been mentioned, would expire
before the year 1800.
Mr. Murray said, it weuld be no indulgence to the
friends of the present measure to dispose of the busi
ness then, that tuey might apply to the Maryland Le
gislature ; because he believed t hat Legislature was now
riien. He hoped the House would therefore agree to
a poftpoaement.
The question for a poflponement was put and car
ried 37 to 36.
Mr. W. Smith moved to call up the resolution he
ytftcrJaylaid 011 the table refpefting an allowance to
the fufferers by the late fire at Savann-ah ; when, on
the fenle of the house being taken whether it should be
taken into eonfideration or not, there appeared only 16
votes in favour of it.
Mr. W. Smith gave notice he should to morrow
again move to have it taken into consideration.
The house went into a committee of the whole on
the bill for relief of John Seats, which was agreed to
wirhout amendment, taken up in the house, read a
second time, and ordered to be engrofled for a third
reading to-morrow.
Mr. D. Foster moved that the report of the Com
mittee of claims on the petition ef Willam Parsons be
committed to a Committed of the woole. Agreed and
made the order tor to morrow. Adjourned.
Wednesday, December 28.
Mr. W. Smith wifked the house to resolve itfclf
into a committee of the whole on the Tefolution,
which he had the other 1 day laid upon the tablr,
proposing to afford fame relief to the (ufferets l.y
the late fin at Savannah. FOl his part, he said,
he could fee no reasonable objection which could be
made to so benevolent a proportion. A gentleman
in the house had got a plan of the ruins of the ci
ty, it wa§ indeed a Hull diftrefsful scene. There
had never occurred so calamitou» an event of the
kind in the United States, or which had so strong
a claim upon the general government for relief. He
said they had granted allirtance to the fuflerers by
fire at St. Domingo ; and surely if it were juttitia
ble to grant relief to foreigners in diltrefs, it was
at lead equally so when the objects were our own
citizens. If gentlemen had objeiSions to the mea
sure he wished they would state them. 1 lie fjiw
with which he ftiould think of filliug up tjhe blank,
would not be fueh as to materially affett oar finan
ces.
Mr. Milledge said, if the unfortunate had any
claim upon gove'rnment for relief, none could have
greater than the citizens of Savannah. Few hou
ses, he said, were remaining of that city, and
-thofc few were the leafl valuable. Not a public
building ; not a place of public woilhip, or of
( public justice ; all was a wide watte of tuin and
desolation, such as scarcely could be conceived, and
fiich as it were impoflible to describe. He hoped
some relief would be tfiordsd to distress so uuexaaj
pie#.
Mr. Cooper said, it was a very unpleasant thisg
to come forward to oppose a measure oi this foil ;
but when they looked into different parts of the
union and saw the loffcs which had been fattained at
New-York, Chariefton, &c. it would appear only
reasonable, that if Yclicf was ifforded in,one cafe,
it ought to Tie extended to another ; and if this re
fclution were agreed to, he fliould cfcrtainly move
to have some relief afforded to New-York. He
hoped, however, the business would »iot be pro
ceeded with. If the principle were a good one,
it would bear going thiough with ; but it would
te seen, this would, on the contrary, pmve a dsn
geroiis-one. What they did to day, lie f..'d» would
require repeating to sionow. If they were to 1* ke
good losses by hr«, there would be no occasion for
| Insurance Companies, nor any inducement t» fitiild
with brick in preference to wood. Hcfcll as muck
as others for the distresses of tbe people of Ssvan
nah, but was of opinion it was not a proper buS»
nefsfor the interference of that house.
Mr. W. Smith thought with the gentleman fro«»
New-Y.ork, that they ought to attend to the ptin.
ciples upon which they acted, and not do a thing-,
to-day which they ought not do to-morrow. He
trusted the house would not beoften called upon to
relieve a calamity like the present ; nor need they
be alarmed at the gentleman's intention of bringing
fciward New-York for relief. Charlellon, he said,
had experienced great distress by fire, yet he had
not moved that house for any relief. The quelHon
was, whether this was not a peculiar cate of dis
tress ; and if so, whether they had not the power
of affording relief ? And as to this being brought
forward as a precedent, it was as he
hoped they fiiouid net again fooo hear of four,
fifths of a whale city being burnt so ashes; but if
such an inltance should occur, he should vote for
affording the fufferers relief. He thought the
jeftiuns did not apply.
On the quethon being taken whether the house
would then refolvc itfelf into a committee of the
whole on the fubjeft, therfc appaaied 38 for it, and
39 against it.
A (notion was then made to discharge the com
mittee of the whole from any farther confideralioo
of the subject.
Mr. W. L> man hoped the business would not be
disposed of without going into a committee of the
whole. Ke thought more refpedi*6vas due to the
feelings of the fufferers than to dispose of the fob
jfA without diktffion. He hoped the committee
would not, therefore, be discharged. .
Mr. Hartley trusted the committee woyld not
be discharged. He believed the dellru£tioa of Lis
bon by an earthquake did not oecafion greater raif
chiefs than the late fire had doae at Charletton.
The legislature of Pennsylvania, which had no
greater power than the general government to af
ford relief to these fufferers, had given 15,000 dol.
lars. Indeed he thought it more the province of
the general government than of state governments,
to afford-relief in such cases. He referred to what
had been given to the fufferen at St. Domingo, aud
to the parliament ofEnglatid having given l.icooeo
to the people of Lifbun, after the earthquake there,
though connected with them only commercially.
Mt. Kitchell was in favor of the committee of
the whole being discharged, because, if the fubjeft
lay over, the legislatures would beat a loss to know
whether any thing would be done by the general
government, and would keep back their donations.
If it oame within their power to relieve them, he
should wife to do it, tut not othcrwife. At any
rate, he thought it had better be determined at
present whether any (hing would be done in their
behalf or not.
Mr. Sprigg, jun. hoped the committee,
not be difdiaiged, but that they would go into the
business at an early day He said he had «*>t ma»e
up his mind how far they had a power to afford re
lief in a cafe like the present. There was an in*
ft a nice, he said, in the iclief afforded the daugh
ters of the count de Grafle, as well as that given
to the fufferers at St. Domingo. He wished for
further time to make enquiry on the, luhje&. If
there were not insuperable objections to the rac&-
sure, h« hoped relief would be afforded.
[To be continued.J
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
arc llereb >' notified, that the an
nual L edlion for Officers for the ensuing year, wiil
be held at the Company's offiee, near the Bank of the
United States, on the firft Monday in January next
at 10 o'clock, a. m. '
- IBy the Board of Managers.
p., .. , . _ IVM - MOORE SMITH, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia. Dec. J, 1796.Philadelphia,
SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 31, 1796.
Return of Votes P~] ,5
FOR 4 I £ £t- • ? '"§» o
PRESIDENT cs| . I .!! -1
and
VICE-PRESIDENT N "o
Ncwf-Hainpfliire, 6 . ~' P£
MaiTachnfetts, 1613 21
Khode-Ifland, 4 4
Conne<siicut,j 94 j
Vermont, 4 4
New-York, 12 iz
IMew ferfey, 7 7
Permfylvauia, ST«a 14 13
Delaware, 31 3I | |
Maryland, 7443 1
Virginia, t 110 I 15 31
Kentucky,
1 T'nnnTee,
* >iorch-Caroli»a, I I it 6 1 f
South-Carolina, j 8 S
I4j I 4
Total, •* 71 59;6i»3 ij 2 5 7 % in
In North-Carolina, one vote was given for Charles
Pinckaey, and three for Judge Iredell.
FIRE.
About 8 o'clock last evening, an alarming site
broke out in the roof of a house in the College
yard, the property ef the Univerlity of Pennsylva
nia, and occupied by the Rev. Dr. Andrews.
The fire having got to a great height before the
■citizens aflembled, the utmoll exertions could npt
arrest its piogrefsi 'till it had destroyed the whole
upper part of the house, as well as the one adjoiri
ing.
Various ideas have g»ne forth refpeftiog the o
rigin of this fire. It appears, however, from a con
sideration of all the circuriiftances, that it could
not have been kindled with design.
In a late paper we inserted some obfervatisns of
a European, strenuously recommending the use of
Holes, to be screwed on the Engine, in lieu of
the pipe, and of Efficient length to ejOend to any
qd3rter of the house : It clearly appeared that by
the help of one or two of these, in the commence
ment of the fire, its progress might have been
speedily arretted.
* # * Dr. Roesits begs leave in this public man
jier to return his wanned thanks to his friends and
fellow-citizens, for their exertions in the securing of
his property, during the alarming fire of lad evening.
Extraft#f a letter from Baltimore, Dec 28.
«« Repeated attempts have been made by indivi
duals to burn this town. Almolt daily alarms.—
Great numbers are dcte&ed and confined for trial.
Thismorninp, a biick dwelling house was set on
fire, and principally consumed, by a negra woman,
who endeavoured revenge on her matter for fevere s
treatment. She is also confined. The house be
ing near the water, thelTfc was got under, foai not
to communicate with any other."
To the Inhabitants of the City of Philadelphia.
The great inquietudes, terrors and apprehensions,
excited in the minds of fobcrand ton&derate citizens,
ky the very absurd and difgraceful practice, which for
many years pad lias prevailed in and near this City,
of firing guns on or near new year's day, induc ed the
Legiflitureof Pennsylvania to express their disappro
bation thereof by a law pafleU in ihe year 1774, where
in declared 'obe " a disorderly pra&ice, which is
"frequently attended with much mifchiet', arid great
•' lydiilurbs public peace," and in order'ro fupprels
the fame, certain fines and punishments arc infiidted on
petfons who thereafter should be convicted of having
offended against the said law. Notwithdanding which,
ptrfons have been found in this City, in every year
since the palling of the said Ail, who, in contempt of
law and good order, have repeated the unwarrantable
praAire iforefaid, and have thereby terrified and dif
tui'bed the peace and tranquility of good citizeus, and
endangered their lives and property.
In order therefore to redrain unprincipled and in
considerate persons from the commiflion of similar
outrages at the close of the present and beginning of
the next year, the Condables of the City are hereby
required and enjoirted to use the utmod vigilence and
diligence during the last night of the present year to
apprehend and confine in the common prison, all per
sons whom they shall find in the ftrcets attempting to
•disturb the peace of thi City ; and the citizens who
lhall then patrole the City for the protection thereof,
ire requeded t» assist the Condables in preserving the
tranquility ot the City, and bringing offenders topun
ifhment.—
It is deemed necessary, for the effeflual fuppreflion
of the practice aforelaid, to carry the laid law rigor
ously into execution, and therefore it is wifbed and
hoped, that none of the youtli3 or other inhabitants of
this City, will expufe themselves to the disgrace of be
iny coafitlered and treated as disorderly persons, and
diflurbers of the public peace.
HILARY BAKER, Mayor.
Philadelphia, 30th. Dec, 1796.
COMMUNICATIONS.
■ Demociatic v ; r tut is at an uncommon ldw point
of dejection and discouragement. It haa been the
delusion of several, (one or two Jacobins born,
and at lead two new converts) thai the Vice-Presi
dency was within the gtafp of each of the four
pretenders. Each took his chance, andadedCa
.as to make the mod of it. But, alas 1 what Gg
tiifies duplicity ? what avails a coronet ? To be the
tool of Jacobins, en this very profpeft, is nothing.
The claims of a law chief, and once federalift, are
iiothing : since we fee, that if a man dicks to his
like a Buna, even Virginia will faoner vote
for old Scratch, than for him.
The scratching governor of MalTaehufetts has
become remarkable by the name, as well as the
deed.
THE PLUNDERED STATUES, PAINTINGS,
AND MANUSCRIPTS.
Carry these preeions curiolities, fays the Aurora,
from Italy to France, —where they may4o fomt good;
that is to fay. take them by force from the country
■w! re they are almost worshipped, because they aug-
TiieiU its wealth, and ill&drate its own glory and that
the atti ■, and carry them int« the country which
warand anarchy have made a chaos-'-whel'e properly*
principles, men and government, are all revolutionary
and changeful as the winds. In spite of all the affec
ted veneration for the arts, Franpe has shed mjre of
the blood of the literati, and of clergymen, than the
pagan persecutions of the ehriftian religion, and de
stroyed not much less ©f the precious remains of the
arts and sciences, than the old Gatbs and Vandals
_ i
What a hard (hip our Jacobins submit to ? To
defend Fiench principles after their authors have
given them Up, is a tough bufmefs. The edufe of
liberty, the rights of man, the happiness of the peo
pie, are itords, and very clever words, to collect
a mob. None are better to itop that cursed think
ing on facts that have flopped every Jacobin
rasuth in France. But fafhions will do far us after
they are worn out in Paris. The Boston Chronicle
is at this of time day the fitted tool of foreign in
fluence, becauf.- it is the dulled. Ignorant of prin
ciples, and heedless of experience, the thick head
ed paragraphias of the Chronicle go oo to extol
the happiness and liberty of F'ance. The very
words found ironically. Lit us repeat them—The
happiness and liberty of France ! The knowing ones
t.f the club, already laugh at these droll woids.
To oppose Chronicle lies, take French evidence
" T.he laws with(»ut execution: The cunftituted
authorities impotent and disgraced : Crimes tinpuu
ifhed : Property of every kind attacked : Pcifonal
fafety violated : The morals of the people corrup
ted : N<> constitution, no government, riojultice."
— C Brifot's appeal to his confiituents J
1 his is ihe liktrty, the happiness, the Chronicle
extols. The readers of that venal Gazette knb*,
it is hoped, what it leads to in America. Folly
has had its day ; and Mr. Adet's appeal to the peo
ple, has cured many who tefufed all other mediefne.
SERIOUS TRUTHI
Without good morals, it is allowed, there ean
be no free, fepublic. The democrats have talked
as loudly as others on morals, but they have
tlbne more thaw all other men to corrupt them.
! heir admiration of French examples, has been a
contagioi. They extolled anarchy, and they vin
dicated ferocity ; and for a time, it feemtd as if
the meafnres in Pai 13 weie approved well enough to
be imitated. How mueh ien'.iments so falfe and
so tiuly hortid, as have had their da\ of popularT
ty in our country, have changed the milk of chari.
ty and human kindness, that wewfed\J« have in A
maiica, into vinegar and aqua fortis, cannot he
certainly known. Confufidn if the democrats
could bring it about as they wilh, would (hew how
much more of the blood of fa hers and brothers a
fetond American revolution would shed, in coufe
quence of our being taught and accu.'tomed to
think so much more lightly of shedding it, than
we did during the firfl. God of his uiiircy forbid
that th* matter fliould be teiied by experience I
Anothet veiy great cause of the general corrup
tion in the United States is this—Lately, vice and
villainy have found a way t» hold up their heads,
not only without thame or fear, but toith audacity.
Clubs receive difgractd men, bankrupts, swindlers,
over d-.f.wers at the banks, renegadoes from Britain
and lieland. Party combinations protedl men who
are shunned and abhorred by their btethren of the
fame profeffion. Is there no itiftsnce of a
merchant despised by all other merchants, trullcd by
n£ne, driven from their company, whe huds sup
port from other quarters, and gets int« power by
club influence ? The public is invited to attend to
glaring and foaudalous infla.ices of diltinction,
power, and public trust conferied upon individuals,
from whom ill pii»ate trust has long ago been with
drawn : nay, more, who are thus advanced for the
very reason that their beggarly circuiuftances, their
profligacy of principles, and blaited chara&era,
qualify them to serve the party. For a conspiracy
againlt a free commonwealth, Catalinc is fitter to
be trusted than Cato. The paity judges right, it
is admitted. '
But is not the power of public opinion counter
ailed and wholly perverted, when knaves thus
mount above their altsnifhed accufcrs ? when they
pofTefs at leali public marks of honour, and hurl
their calumnies even agaiaft such virtue as'Wafh
ington's ? The democrats have certainly impair d
morals, which is one Sep towards fubverfing order.
Warning from the sfukQRA.
Fanchet, i» his intercepted letter, calls the de
mocrats and the whisky infqrgents the patriotic par
ty. As Mr. Bache oftfen applies Ihe name to hit
rlan, it is lucky that we know its true meaning.—
The famtpatriots who rose in arms, and were quell
ed at the expence of a million and a half, he tells
us, will' have a place of shelter, if the French
fliould obtain pofleflion of the Spanilh country be
yond the Miffifippi. There, he faye, wilt be an
afyium for the patriots.- Another whisky infurric
tion maybe hoped for the sooner, bccaufe Bradford
& Co will then have a place of refuge, a t'afe asy
lum. This, Mr. Bache allures us, will be a great
advantage to the United States. t
Some perfous make the fuceefs of French prin
ciples an affair of duty, not of simple truth. H»
ly infurre&ion, and fcttiug up the governed agaiuft
the governors, has been called the cause of liberty,
and thofc among us who denied, or even doubted,
the good tendency of such Wh'tfkey and Shays prin
ciples,' were denounced, oppof'ed and hunted at e
le&ions, or, when cliofen to office, fhndered and
news-papered aimed daily.
Will their Jacobin high mightinesses permit . b
to i'peak out, now that in their, fallen date they
cannot help it ? Has French republicanism fuceeed
ed ? Has not the experiment wholly failed ? Has
not American republicanism, as the President ob
fetved in' his Speach, facceeded wonderfully ! It
lias, and every farmer's, every mechanic's, and e
very merchant's experience, at lefts it. The causes
of this marked and signal difference depends 00
circumstances which every man of sense should in
veltigate calmly. Americans, he will fay, may be
and God grant they may ever be republicans.
The French are, if we may trust experience, un
fitted sot it. It is not our fault that they have fail
ed, nor is it our misfortune. Great cities we have
not, morals we have, uui "citizens live difpafed,
> they know fomethlnjr, anj they poflVij forhething.
I lie success of our government is therefore onr pe
p culiar and perhaps our finale felicity. If these
, »re true* it it any crime to offer thism
. to the public confiieration.
Bache having piiblifhed at last the statement of
the returns into the Colle&or's office, of the Port
, of Philadelphia, wherein it appears that FOUR
Ameiican seamen, and no more, hare been
ed by the British ; —only a faint regard to charac
ter will now be requisite to prevent the continua
tion of those ahfyrd alTfrtions on this head, the
falfehood of which has disgraced even the Aurora.
BY THIS DAY's MAIXS.
NEW-YORK, December 30.
A gentleman who came passenger in the Hunter,
Montague, from Bristol and Ireft, has politely in
formed us, that when he left Brest, O&ober 26,
about 1J fail of thfc line lay in Brest waters, nearly
ready for {*. ; that several vessels were repairing—
and that there were about 26 armed veflels, belides
a number of privateers which were fitting.
The Hunter was boarded three days out of Brif.
tol by the French privateer fhlp Buonaparte of 16
guns, Oapt. Raymond, who treated them politely
except putting on board them 16 prisoners againlt
the will of Capt. M. Having the prisoners on
board Capt. M. fleered for Brelt, where he debark
id them, and reprcfented the faits tc the admiral
and tl»e owners, who highly disapproved of the
conduit of Capt. Raymond, who had n» orders to
diHrcls the Americana. The Buonaparte had been
out three days, and had taken three prizes, one of
which wSs the Duke ot Clarence Weft-India mai,
valued at 25,«c0l- iterling, the other two were de
stroyed.
ARRIVED. Days.
St. Sand&ery Packet, Hariifjii, Port au-Pr.ince 33
Ship Camilla, Wiiiiamfon St. Übes 73
Venue, ditto —
Schoonei Nymph, Johnfdn St. Croix 52
Sloop Alcnifna, Folfome Richmond 6
Snew Harnjony, Williams, from this port, has
arrived at St. Croix.
Schooner Favorite, Allen, arrived fafe at New
port, 51 days from Surinam.
Brig George, Richards, from this port, artived
at Brelt in 48 days.
Ship Planier, Capt. Montague, 70 days from
Bristol, and 63 from Brelt.
OAober 23, th* (hip Sally, of Boston, was fsnt
into Brest by La Vengeur privateer, being bound
from Limerick to Lilboti, and having on board a
bout 45 tons of butter. Also was fent,in, an En
gliili brig from Ceik Dound t# Barbadoes, captured
by a cutter.
Oito'oer 2,7, the (hip D ana, of South Carolina, I
from Liverpoon>onnd to Savannah, was carried b)
a privateer into Bred.
N ivemhef 10, spoke the (hip Walliington, from
Philadelphia to Hamburgh, all well.
November 12, spoke the (flip Wilson, Capt.
Allen* from Coik to Philadelphia, out 17 days,
Ib\. 42, 53, long. 36. v
November 20, fpwke the ship Thomas •'.Vilfon,
lat. 40, 23.
November 24, fpokc a brig from Baltimore for
Bremen, out J days, lat. 3?, 23, long. 65, o.
November zj, spoke the brig Mercury, from
Philadelphia, bound to Hambuigh, out 3 days,
lat. 37, 10, long. 65.
December 5, fpwke the brig Grace, from Phi
ladtlphia boui.d to Amllerdam, out 4 days, l»n
gitude 63
December I 2, spoke the brig John, from Charles
toe, bound to New-Yotk, out 22 days.
December 18, fpi)ke the brig Two Friends,
from St. Thomas, f«r New-York.
BALTIMORE, Dec. 19*
A numbtr ofcitizen soldiers from Fell's Point, con
fiding of eaptain Weaver's artillery, captain Stew
art's Hioernia buigade,Yapt. Reating's grenadiers and
one or two companies of infantry, yesterday paraded
before commodore Barney's door, to wish him the
compliments of the season, and congratulate him on his
arrival once more among hi» old friends and acquaint
ance.
Yesterday morning, about 8 o'clock, a fire broke out
in a house belonging to Mr. Maubry, near Prat't-ftreet,
1 j between Hanover and Charles-street. From some
I threats of a negro girl belonging to the family, and
I from its breaking out in the garret, it is supposed (he
designedly set it on (ire. It was an happy circum
| ltance (he did npt execute her wicked def.gn until day-
j light, as from its h gh and inaccelTible lituation, the
j flames mull have spread far jnd wide before effectual
I means of prevention could h»ve reached the place.
By the exertions of the citizens the fire was soon got
1 under, without much other damage to the house than
the loss of-an old roof. Uncommon regularity and
. alacrity were observed in forming and preserving lanes
for the supply as water.
We are requested to fay. that the citizens rtfidiag
on that part of Howard's hill where the fire broke out,
cannot opuit acknowledging the grateful sense they en
tertain for the signal services of meflieurs Daniel Fi(b
er, John Lee, Samuel Lee, and others, whose manly
and generous exertions, in and on the top of the house
on fire, saved it in a gait measure, with little other
loss than the toof, which was thrown off; by which
theflames were loon extinguiihed and prevented from
I spreading "their ravages to the adjacent buildings,
which are compol'ed of wood and very combustible
Since writing the above we learn that the nrgro girl,
! on examination,"cot.fefied she set her mafters's house
a fire j and has accordingly been committed to pri
• son.
SUSSEX, (New-Jersey,) Dceember 16.
We are informed that the following persons were
s put in nomination in this county, for reprefenta
) tivej ia Congress, and we aie happy to obfervethey
- are all Federal—the election Will be held in each
r township, on the second Tnefday in January next.
Mark 1 hompfon, Jonaihan Dayton, James Im
lay, I homas innnickfon, Jjitics Schureman, A-
Hraham Ogden, Joseph Bloomfield, William Crane,
e James Linn, Charles Stewart, John Blackwwod,
, , rhoaias Luwrey.
MFOkMATIOHi
IF Ann Burns, who cam? to Philadelphia from
Oriftol, in the (hip Four Friends, Cifytain Wad«
i Jell, in May last, will apply to JefTe and Robert
Wain, she will receive very agreeable and interest.
dtf Dee. 31.
THE SUBSCRIBER
WISHES to ascertain, whether a certain EDWARD
NEVILL, by trade a stone-Cutter, or Brick-Layer,
who quitted Ireland 1*783, or 1784, and came intd
this Countryj ('tis supposed to Philadelphia) about
fojir years since, be living or dead. As this intelli
gence is of thehigheft importance, it wilibe thankful
ly received, by GEO. DAVIS,
No. 313, High-street
December 3t. w fcf im
Pennsylvania Populatioil Company.
THE Stockholders arc herfljy notified, that an elecftioa
For Officers for theenfuing year, will be held at the Com
pany's D'flicc. No. 53, North Fourth-ftlfect, bn Wtduef
day the nth January next, at la o'clock.
By Order of the Board,
SOL. MARACME, SECRttAnr.
Decembef ji. . s. w. & w.
FOUND,
At the Daneing AfTembly, last Thursday evening,
29th inft. a GOLD BRACELET.—The owner may
have it by applying at this of&ce •
December 31 g
The Elephant,
Now exhibited, was bought for Teh Thousand
Dollars.
. He is 3 years old, < feet high, growing to 18 feet.
He eats 150 weight a-day, and drinks a barrel of
water ; he has drank some days forty bottles of porter*
drawing the corks with hu trunk.
He is perfectly inoffenfive; travels loose, at the
rate of five miles an hour, and istiie greatcfl curiosity
ever brought to this Continent.
He i» to b« seen 'till the 15th of January, in
Market-ftrret between Third and Fourth-streets, at
a quarter of a dollar, that every one may fee him—
after which time the former price of half a dollar will
be resumed.
He will leave Philadelphia as soon as the weather
will permit.
Dccrmber 31 d
THE STOCKHOLDERS
Of the Bank of the United States
Are hereby informed,
THAT, according to the Statute of Incorporation, a
General ElesSicn fur Twenty-Five Directors will be
held at the Bank of the United States, in the City of
Philadelphia, on Monday the second day of January
next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon
And, pursuant to the eleventh fe<ftion of the Bye Laws,
the Stockholders Of the said Bank are herehjt notified to
affemhle a General Meeting, at the fame place, on Tues
day the third uay of January next, at five o'clock in the
evening. * _
By order of the Board of Directors.
G. SIMPSON, Cafhitt.
*nd Fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of the Direflors in ofScc
exclusive of the President, (hall be eligible for the nest
succeeding year, but the Director who (hall be Prefidcu*
at the time of an eleAioc may always be re-eie&ed.
' eftel.
THOMAS DOBSON, '
At the Stone House, A'#. 41, South Stfondjlrctt,
Philadelphia, ,
HAS FOR SALE*
A large and very general assortment of
S TA TIQNARr.
Drawing and Writing Sell and second SWan Quilli
Papers. Black and red Ink Powder
Antiquarian Ditto Liquid Ink
Double Elephant Penknives
Atlas, Desk knives
Elephant Superfine red and black S«ai«
Imperial iag wax,
Super Royal Beit vermilion and coloured
Royal wafers
Medium, Large and fmatl office w»-
Demjr fers
Thick Post folio Red tape broad, middling k
Thin ditto narrow v
Extra thin ditto Slaftic gum, in bottles ef
Thick Post Letter pieces
Ditto plain Pounce
Ditto gilt ivory poUnee boxes
Ditto lined Cocoa and bone ditto
Thin Post Ivory paper-knives
Ditto gilt Slack sand
Mourning «aud box«s, japanned
Ditto plaia, or lined Lignumviue and cottSmeß
Bank Post Gur.ter's scales
Small Post cap fixe Brass divider.
Bed- English and American Leaden preffart
Foolscap, various qualities Black lead pencils
Superfine Pot iliding ditto
Second ditto Japanned card racks
Blofiom and grey Blotting Writing parchment
Paper Ditto vellum
Wrapping paper Morocco writing defkl
Letter files and laces Spanifb tambour ditto
Paper cases, various files All elegant variety
Bonnet paft*board» ink-llandiihes
— Large, middling and fmali
Merchants' Account Books, pewter ink ftandifhes
viz, Large, middling add fmali
Ledgers, fmglc or double, counting-house ink-pots
ruled for 1. s. d. or dolls. Ad elegant aflortment of
& cents, ol Imperial or Su- chryftal and Wedgeweed
per Royal, with or with- philosophical ink-pots
out cross lines Irik-glafies various sizes
Journals, Day Books, In- Leather & paper ink-piece*
voice Books, Account cur- for the pocket
rent Books, Sales' Books, Small gilt visiting cards
Letter Books, and P ecord Blank meftage-cardsj large
Books, of Imperial, Su- and fmali, gilt and p'ain
per-royal, Royal, Medi- Boxes of marking-types for
, um, Demy or Foolscap, lined.
crols ruled or pUiu. • -f
Receipt Books Bills of lading,large & fmali
Bank Books Bills ef exchange
Memorandum Books Elegant copperplate ditto
Bill of l ading Books Cuftom-houfs entries
Bill Books, payable and re- Manifefts
ccivable Seamen's articles
Bank-Check Books, ef vari- Blank bonds
ous fixes and for different Judgment bonds
banks* Judgment bills
Cyphering and Copy Book* Mortgages
Common place Books Arbitration bofi'ds
Apprentice's indentures
Bed Dutch Quills, No. 1, », Powers of attorney
3. 4 and 5 Bank chocks, &c. &c. &c.-
December 17. 6S
To be Rented,
A Large Vault and Cellar,
That will contain 200 pipe 3, ikuate in Walilut
between Fourth and Fiftli-flreets. Also a COACH
HOUSE and STABLE, with Stalls for five horses.
1 N. B. Goods Stored by the month.
> Enquire of Benjamin W. Morris,
Narembw jo. >Treasury of the United States.
OTICE is hereby given to all perfJns who are or TH'
IN may b® Creditor* of the United States,for any sums eIe«M
of the Fended Debt, or Stock, tearing a prefeni interejl of fx held 3-
o clod
tcr Oentvm per annum. •
ift, That pursuant to an Ad of CoHfrrcfs palled on the
aS.h day nf April, 1796, intitledan aa in addition to an Bet
aft, intituled " An ad making futther provision tor the
support of public credit, and tor the redemption of the yV
public dekt," the said debt or stock will be reimhurfed and
iaid m manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be made on the last days of March, June and fieptem- VT!
'« ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand V V
" seven hundred and ninety-foven,to tht year one thou- twoh
•' sand eight hundred & eighteen inclusive.at the rate of a Cai
« one and one half per centum upon the original capital, toma
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day ot
" December for the present year, and from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
" one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at
« the rate of three and one half per centum npo:. the ori
«• «inal capital; arid by a dividend to be ma e on the latt
'■ day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then a.le
" quate, according to the contrail, for the final redemp
" tion of the said flock."
ad. All diftinaion between payments on account ot
nterefi and Principal being thus abolished by the establish
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement above de
cribed.it has become necessary to vary accerdingly thi
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
reditors will therefore observe that the following form
s eftablithed for all powers of attorney Which may be g
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz. quu
KNOW ALL MEN Mr THESE PRESENTS, that the
I °f 1 ..
do make, conjlitute and appoint
0 j- my true and lawful At- n °t
ttrneyyfor me , and in my name, to receive the d.vidcnds which are, J
or (ball be payable according to law, on the (hers deicribmg the
stock) Handing in my name in the books of (here defcnbing, the the
books of the Treasury or the Commiflioncr of I,oans,
■where the stock is credited) from (here tnfert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power ot
attorney is to continue) tilth power also an attorney or attor
niu under him, for that purpose to maie andfubfitiete, and to do all
Uwful alii requifttefor effeAing thepremfes, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that my said Attorney or bisfubjiitute,jball lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof. '
In Wltnefs hereof, I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal th>
day if •" <b> near
Sealed and Delivered r
in presence of, 1
BE IT KNO WN, that on the day of cel
tfore me personally came
within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be
tit aCi and deed.
In tejiimony -whereof I have hereunto set my Han Itnd affix
ed Seal the day and year tap afcrtjaid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, parfuant to directions
from the Secretary of the Treasury , c
SAMtJEL MEREDITH,
Treasurer of the United Statu.
July** W tIJ - V
CAUTION. _
6.
WHEREAS very large and heavy de">ts are juftty
due and owing from ineffrs. Blair M'Clenachan and in
Patrick Meore, of the city of Philadelphia, merchants, ei
trading under the firm of Blair M'&ltnachan and P. \ «
Moon, and from Blair M'Clenachan in his separaTe . K
capacity ; to which, by the laws of the land, all the ( ir
joint as well as separate property of the said Gentle- 1
men, ie, and ought to be, liable. And whereas |
it is clearly and fatisfaftorily ascertained, that mr. |
Bletir M'Clenachan, of the said firm, has conveyed ; f<
sway to mr. John H. Huflon, h-is foil-in law, to his e
daughter, miss M'Clenachan, and to his son, Gorge
M'Clenachan, several large and valuable reai estates,
as well as confiderab'.e personal property, in the city
and county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancas
ter, in the eounty of New-Castle on Delawtre, and
elsewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts. —
This is, therefore, to forewarn all pcrfons whomfo
•ver, against the purchase from the said grantees, or
«ith«r of them, of any portion of the said real or per
' fonal property, as the moil vigorous measures will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
j(h« just demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas F'tfzjlmons,
Philip Nickltn, I
Isaac Ybarton, > Committee.
W'uliarn M'Murtrie, I
Samuel IV■ Fifber, J
Philadelphia, December 17th, 17961 20th.}
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into public prints,
warning all pcrfons against purcbafing from the
grantees of Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
large, real and personal estates he conveyed away to
fais fon-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberatioa had upon the fubjeft by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenaehan and P Meore as of Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust confided in the fubferibers by
those creditors: a step which it would have been a
breach of .duty and honor in them to have omitterl.
The very statement of the fadt therefore must dif
pcl the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or visdictive." It originated in a desire to secure
the property of the debtor as a sand for the pay
ment of his just debts. It was fanflioned by the
•dvice of council as a measure necejfary to the fafety
of the ceeditor3. If the advenil'ement has been
injurious ta Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his (Twn unjuftiliable conduct, not to the fub
feribers who have merely piibliflied the truth iB
terms as mild as the fait would admit, and who
mean to in*eftigate in a high court of justice the
validity of thole purchases of which Mr. M'Cle
nsehan so confidenily speaks.
The fobicribsrs therefore are bound by a sense
as duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
caution against purchasing of those grantees or
, either of them, and to extend 4 the terms of it to a
purchase from any other persons (if such there be)
* to whom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made finailar
conveyances.
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W. FISHER.
Philad. Dec. 21, 1796.
#3* Those printers who have been requested to
puhlifli the firft Caution, are defirsd to -publilh this
also-
Bank of North America. y
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an
eleilion for twelve Direaors for the ensuing year will be A(<
held at the Bank on Monday the gt'n of January at ten re ilea
o'clock. _ . vhlsH
RICHARD WELLS, Calhter, v ' t)ea
Dec. 6.
_ , .. * — Nc
Walhington Can-al Lottery,
N°. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authored WIL
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand, da
two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpofc of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, froxi th Po
tomac to theEaftern Branch Haruour. In
■The following is the SCHEME of No. I. H
Vis -I Prize of 10,000 dollars, ao.coo on!
t ditto jo,ooo 10,000 y°ui
7 laftdrawr.-> Js>ooo the'
Tickets, each $ . 111
6 ditto I.OOS 6,000 intr<
IO ditto 400 4»°o®
20 ditto 100 a,OOO veni
55 ditto 50 »,75° Tue
5750 ditto u 69,008 1'
To be r-aifed for the Canal, 16,150 lire'
i 0
5850 Prizes, *75> 000
11650 Blanks, n-ot two to a prize.
I 17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - I7J>° 00 f
; &y- The Commiflioners have taken the Securities re ; n a
quired by the aforefaid a& tor the punaual payment ol on ;
t the prizes. . ma'
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without wh.
delay, as soon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely Sou
. notice will be given.
. Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after tht*
e' drawing is finilhcd, fball be confiden das relinquished for 1
the benafit ef the Canal, and appropriated accordingly. a I
rS.gned) NOTLEY YOUNG, old
DANIEL CARROLL, c 0;
)f LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
II Wm. m.duncanson, ms
id THOMAS LAW, "
/- JAMES BARRY. P g
City of Wafhipgton, Feb. %
Paterion Lottery. _
FOR raising fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a dedudion of fifteen per
cent'from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000 li
be j 1000 1000
t 500 J°°
*- s 100 ioco K
10 100 1000
n - 09 jo, 4950 p
,ns »oo 1-5 i°°°
1000 16 10,000
5 Last drawn numbers of K3OO dollars each, 5000
1331 Prizes. 44>450
4018 Blanks. p
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44.41° _
lly By order of the Diredors of the Society for cftablifli
nd mg Weful Manufaaures, the fuperintendants of the Pat
its, erfon I.ottery have requested the Managers to offer the
p i foregoing Saheme to the public, and have directed them
a '( e 'to refund the money to those persons who have purehafed ; j
t^e ' in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets , c
,i ! n this Lottery.
' j The lottery has anally commcnccd drawing, and will ! &
ea ° continue until finilhed. A lift ol the Blanks and Prizes | .
I1r ; 1 may be seen at the office o) William Blackburn, No. 64 r
south Second ftrcet, who will give information where tick- a
ets may hi procured.
r £ e Dated this 17th day of June, 1796; c
tes > J. iV CUMMING, 7 >
-"T JACOB R.'HARDENBERG, > Managers,
-as' JONATHAN RHEA, J t
a d n e d _ STATE OF THE WHEEL.
i, 1 Prize of 5000 ... 5000
nfo- 1 1000 - - - 1000
,or I 500 - - » S°° j j
per- J *°° - - • - ioco I ,
w iU 10 ico - a°°o 1
eto 9° -5° ~ 45°° ;
165 15 - - - - 4i25 ,
The five last drawn tickets, 1000 e-ch, 5000 1
Being all the valuable prizes, betides a full propor- . 1
tion of the 10 dollars. 1
C; As the Lottery is considerably more than one third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly increased, and it is wofth the notice of those
.4 who hold tickets in the old scheme, that they can ex- !
change their tickets for thole in the above, if they ap
ly fodo, and at a moderate advance considering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in j
IBts future will be oftener, and the Lottery soon finilhed.
November iz. mw< I
the By Authority.
iy to
ll °| Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Jla ' r Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
' ena " South Second-Jlreet.
.ecu- —
» by SCHfiME of a LOTTERY,
ren a p or raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agrefably to an Aft o(
tterl. the Leg (lature of Pennfylvaaia, passed during the last
jjf ictfion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
. * Schuvlkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Itate Berks. Dollars,
■cure 1 Prise of 10.000 Dollars - «0,000
pay. 1 do. of to,ooo do. - - 10,000
f 3 do. of fi,ooO do. ... 15,000
1 do, of b,ooo do. - - 8,000
atety ao do, of 1,000 do. - 90,000
been 39 do. of 500 do. . - »9is°®
siurv <l0 ' 400 " " 16,000
*V J aoo do. of 100 do. - - a®,ooo
ll 'b" 300 do. of 50 do. - - 14,000
hin 1 do. of 500 do. to be paid the polfcf- )
w ho for of the firft drawn no. 5
. S do/ of. 3,000 do. to be paid polTelTors > MO
' ' of the five last drawn nos
'Cle- g t^oo o 15 do. ! - 141,000
sense 10,054 Priies 300, o®o j
10,046 Blanks —
tneir 1
es or 30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
: to a All Prizes (hall be paid fifteen days after the dra wing is
e b e ) finilhed, upon the demand of a po (left or of a fortunate
• J , ticket, fubjift to a deduction of. twenty per cent. The
JRllar D raw i n g will commence as soon as the Tickets are disposed
of, or perhups sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Milter, Peter Kcrjbner, William Witman,
Joseph Hicfler, Jamts Diemer, Thomas I)undas,
Jamer May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graejf,
lE, Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
, Reading. May the 9th, 1796,
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 1, to be had at the
above office, where the information of the draw
ing of the Walhington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
ed to arc reC eived, and ehfcek books for examination and regif
h thii teringare kept.
Odobsr 7. 4»wtf
liorfes taken in, j
For the Winter Sea/on, Tl
A&d cm clover hay at the Suhfcribers place, I'i I •
relies on the Bristol Road, where good stabling is pro- -
Yided, and great care) will be taken of them I
William Bell* I whic
Nov. 23. mwfawmthtf. I 0
DANCING SCHOOL. J*
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open his school on Mon- I
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at hii I
Elegant hew Ball Rooms, J R
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut streets. J Fr j e
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o cloek 1 an( j
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gc*tlernen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the eveniags © |
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new cotillio*s, he mean* too J
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels. I
Note. The fkft pra&ifirag ball to be on Tuesday e- mat
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every tail
Tuesday, during the season. | 1 a '
1 For terms, &c, enquire at his house, N«.134» Market- j p*n
ft*cet.
Pit. 17. tthl I ~
A Manufactory FOR SALE. J A
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufaaory, fihiate I
in convenient part of the city ; the works almott n^ w * I
' on an entirely original confttudlion, and built of the belt j Siti
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons I
t who with to purchase, arc rcqucfted to apply No 273, jrl
I South Second Street. September 13. tt I ti I 1
Twenty Guineas Reward. I*"
r RANAWAY from the fubferiber on the 13d Oflobar, j g, (
a Dark MtILATTO BOY, named MOSES; 21 years .iv
old ; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mked greeu a f
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons; 1 Cfc
a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted puttaloons, and j tifi
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change jho
his name and dress. He has been aceuftomed to driving «°
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will he 1" c
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiher may get him 1 "
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by j
Robins Chamberlaine. or '
F. aft on, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 imiawtf jah
n Le Breton, ot
;r SURGEON-DENTIST,
,o Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the j ™
;o King and Royal Family of France, member of the I[h
30 College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris, jf,
:c Keeps a complete afTortment of everything necefTary j y.
50 to be used for*.he 1 er
5° Preservation of the Mouth and 1 eeth. <r
Patent Minoral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
?° Dentrifiee in powder; Opiate; excellent Elixir for n
l'weetcnitig the mouth and preserving the tteth—he it
. D also furnilhes Brushes and foft Spi'ngek. V
*„* He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, abeve p
Fourth-flreet.
?0 November 16. tts g
Samuel Richardet
he "n ESPECTFULI-Y informs the Gentlemen
:m Iv Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
fed j TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
cl s ■ city of Philadel*hia: £
I The Subfcriprion Room will be furnifhed with all the
'ill | daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bof
ze9 I ton. Baltimore, together with those of the principal conr>
64 : mercial cities of Europe—They will be regwlarly filed
ck- an( j none permitted to be taken away on any aecount.
Tea, Coffee, Soupet, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
■rs. Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mofl
approved Malt Liquors frgmLondon and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
300 productions of the Season.
300 ! Large and small Farties, or Gngle Gentlemen, may be
>°° ! accommodated with BroaVfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
3co hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
500 regularly kept for convenicncy, the Billof Fare to be had
500 at the b;ir.
"5 The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
300 | the utmost attention paid to clcaulinefs, and every other
lor- ; requifitc.
I gj" Samuel Richardet will behappyto receive, ana
lird execute the commands of hi 6 Friends, and the Public at
sat- large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
lose himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre
ex- i lerve that patronage with which he has diftinguilh
ap- ; mgly honored.
t )j e i Philadelphia April iq mwf
; Treaiury Department,
' j September 28, 1796.
1C ' ; -X TOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will he re
... j lN acivcel at the office of the Secretary of the Trcafury
j until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for the supply ofall. rations which may he required
for the use of ehe Uniuf States, from the firlt day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the pia«es and within the diftri&s here
g. after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
Piefque llle; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sanduiky
River; at Detroit,; at Michiliitiackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ;at Cincinnati; at Fo! t-Hanailton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jsfferfon; at Orenville; at
■® of Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
'"ft Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
* iv " Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
'Y of Suuben ; at Fort Maffac ; a: any place from Fort Maffac
to the foutlt boundary of the United States on the river
>,oco Miflifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
),000 . lf fuppiiej (hall be required for any pods or places not
j' 000 mentioned in. this notice, all fuoh supplies shall be fur
niflied at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
3 '°°° posts befpre recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
•p 00 between the United States and the Contraaor.
s'ooo The rations, to be supplied are to con lift tof the (ol
i,ooo lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
Sco5 co One pound two ounce* of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiskey.
,000 One quart and half a pint of fait.")
Two quarts ®f Vmegar, (per hundred rations I
>,o®o Two pounds of Soap, ( r
~ One pound of Candles,
The rations are to be furnifhed infmch quantities, as that
3,000 there shall at all times during the said term, be fufficiem
"g 15 f or t he coafumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, Dc
una't tro ; ti Niagara, and Ofwego, fer the term of fix months in
,] advance, and at each of the other posts, for thej term of
P 0 0 at lead three months ill advance, in good arid whoiefome
P Ven ' rrovifisns, if the fame shall be required. It is to be un
derstood, that the Contraaor is to be at the exj»ence and
nd/it, ri(k of ijfuipgthe supplies to the troops at each post, and
raejf, that all loffcs sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of thetr»ops of the United States, fkall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or deftroyod, on
it the the depositions of two or more persons of creditable eha-
Jraw- racers, and the certificate of a commillioncd oSccr, af
<'.rv's, the circunaftances Of the loss, and the amou&t
reirif of ths ai tides foi which oompenfation shall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
wt f • Secretary of the Trcafary.
Waftiington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefnut*
£reet* where a corrc& Numerical Book is kept for public
infpe&ien. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes diawn in the Wafhingtoa Lottery, oi
which the 50th and sill days returns ire received.
£$• Th» Bufincfs of a Broker carried on a* ufaaU
A SHARK in the NEW THEATRE to be fold
en reafonable,terms. December 49 ttstf
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
Ne. 3, South Fourthfireet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to hi*
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their tavori.
lie has on hand an extensive assortment of the
Mojl Fajhienabte GOODS,
And of the quality, suitable for the fe*fon.
At this shop Gentlemen can be furnifhed withthe best
materials, and have the*i made up is the neatest and most SP
FaihiOnable manner, a*d on the shortest notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, pntl pay a prompt and
punctual attention, to them.
November 10. w *
r O B E SOLD,
A LEASE for /even \cars ,from the 2 $tk March next, in that
capital and bermtijul FARM* called
P R O S P E C T-H ILL,
Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Brandywjne
Mills, and hall a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
dwelling house is built of (lone, two stories high,
* genteflv firnfhed, and contains four handsome rooms <m
a floor, besides an entry, with Capital garrets, and convenient
cellars It is generally thought to command the most a
, greeable profpe& of the Delaware, from the source of that
3 rivet to the Capes. This profpe& ia greatly embdiifhed by
1 a full view of a vast body of meadow, through which the
; Christiana and Brandywine creeks are seen winding in b«au
i tiful meanders. Near the hoafe are a Kitchen, a fpaciou®
e hone liable and hay lot, a barn, a carriage houle, mihe
t ftoufe, &c. and a well of as puie water as any on the conti
q nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land, a
a bounding with fruit, and particularly with peach trees, of
v the very Deft kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear
ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a voung, apple
orchard begining to bear, and Veveral old trees that produce
abundantly, besides cherry and other ornamental tree«, in
great numbers. The farm consists of near sixty acres of land,
of good quality, and clear of incumbrances, exccpt taxes,
twenty of which are now in excellent clover and timothy,
and ten more will be Teady lor sowing next fpiiag. A re
sidence ot nearly 8 yeari has convinced the fubferiber that
e the situation is remarkably healthy. The great post road
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within seventy
T yards of the house. In a word, the beaities and eonve»i- .
ence of this ntuztion cannot be enumerated in an advertise- U
[ ment, and when examined, will probably command tne at- t
tcntion of any person who is delimits of living at one of the
' most elegant country feats on the continent. The purehafer
)r may enter on the premises nextfpnng, or perhaps, this tail,
ie if application be immediately made to Doctor NipHOLAS
WAY. in Philadelphia, to Do&or WHARTQN, on the
fC premiles, or, in his ablence, to Mr GEORGETRUI IT, in
Wilmington.
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, some
Stock, &c. may be had by the purehafer at the time of sale.
Nov. 7 codtf
"y City of Wailungton.
hC SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
he fOR THi IMPROVEMENT 0 fXHL
t FEDERAL CITY.
Ed A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & ) qoq
f,tfwelling-houfe-, 5 "ft l 30,000, are 5 '
1 ditto 15,000 & caf. 25,000 40,000
t6 > 1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & c&ih 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 io,oo»
1 cash prize of 10,000
» do. 5,000 each, are ~« 10,000 g
j, c lo do. 1,000 - r 10,000
at ao do. 500 - - 10,000
; s 00 do. 100 - - 10,000 /
lad 100 do. 50 10,000
400 do. 25 - • IP>OOO
md l,ooe do. 20 % - a«,ooo
kcr 15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
ind 16,739 Prizet.
, at 33»»5i Btanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quantity of 1
1_ Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will'be tke la drawn t
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but out :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received for
r6 ~ any numbernot less than 30tickets.
ur y This Lottery will afford an elegant fpeeimen of the pri
cn* vate buildings to be erected in the City of Washington—
red Two beautiful designs are already felefled for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawingt
ot ' l it ispropofed tocrecl two centreand fourcorner bsildmgn,
- re ' ms soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
at them, when complete, to the fortunate adventursrj, in
ifcy thc
manner described in the scheme for ''» Hotel Lottery.
A nctt deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
on > tl:e necefiary cxpenfes of printing, the surplus
at will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
■ at University, to be eie&ed within the city of Washington.
•ort ih e Drawing will commence as soon as the tiekets are
' ort old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty day.
Ac after it is finiflied ; and any prizej for which fortunate
IYer numbers aie not produced within twelve months after th«
drawing is closed, are to be considered as given towards
not the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
■ ur " the whole blifinefs in a year from the ending of the draw
t'le ing, and to take up the bonds given as fe^urity.
on The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Diredltfrs of the Bank
k*" of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of j
ol the late dommiflioners aHi (led in the managers (-nt of the 1
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous tafic
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num 1
ber of these having kindly accepte<|, it Is hoped that the
ions friends to a National University and the other federal ob»
jeilsmay contisueto favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as weft as from Europe, where the ticket.
;1 5 m have been sent for sale, the public are aflurod that th«
." drawing will speedily commcme, and that the care and
caution unavoidably nec.fiary to insure u fafe disposal of
™ 0 th« tickets, has rendered the Jtiort fufpetifion indifpeniabfe.
; nmc SAMUEL BLODGET.
""j «§« Tiekets may be had at the B«nk of Columbia ;of
ail j James Weft & Co. Baltimore ;of Peter Gilman.'Bofton ;
an of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard W«ll»f ]|
Coo P er ' s Ferr y- eo
i, on ~ , i
, " "
r,af- prinTED Bt JOHN FES NO,
> ouat _No. 119—
CH ESN UT-S TREE T.
ry. (Prifcc Eigiit Do Hal's j»®r