Ay..
of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmbu'ip7-1 FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 9 , i 796,9 6, [Pmw#* X.
For Sale,
. The Ship AD EL AID K,
Of New Turk.
I wSSv Lying M subscriber's wharf—bnr
- / yj l ' ■•'ftils then mo tons, ftie i« a stout well built
f ytjfcl, was built by the day for a House
in New*York,under the infpeftion of a oerfon "ncerned
Z tier- has been only one voyage to London and Charles
ton.and fails tatter thin any veCTel out of the port of New-
York. Apply to WILLIAM BEL!
who ha. received by the bH ihip from CbarlelW
-o Tierces fre&Riee, and a few calks of Ground Nuts.
Dec, 6. *"•
For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, mister.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
William Bell;
Who has for fa4e,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and a boxes Linens
»; Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Rnflia Marts.
Also,
A few barrels Poime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, I79<>, » mwftf
For Madeira,
The Jhip Concord,
Capt. John Thomson. For freight
pafiage apply on board, or to
Peter Blight;
y~- xUuv W tjr fsle, a quantity of
Brandy, in pipes
Whiting and Copperas, in hogsheads
Old Hock, in cases
Dutch Cream-Cheese, in boxe»
Window G|afs
Empty Gin-Cases
Glass Ware, in boxes
Painters' Colours, ground in oil
Sweet Oil, in cases of a dozen bottles each
Hazlenuti, in sacks. Nov. n. dim
FOR SALE,
Ajaht IHE SHIP MART,
SAMUIL PARKER » Master,
JSs ? Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY,' & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, fee will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Odlober 31. , d
For Charter,
| The Ship JO HN B UL KEL T,
Ayris Stocklev, Mailer,
excellent live-oak and cedar built
K-gjpJJ 'jp* 1I1!0, ni about 3060 barrels burthenAp-
JeJfe & Robert Wain.
Nov. ' d.
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Mailer,'
iS#'' Rurthen 205 47-95 tons regifttr, built in
I Philadelphia in the year 179 a, of live oak
and red cedar, and was sheathed 13 months ago, she
has just had a compleat out-fit, »nd may be sent to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Ihllip N'tcklin y Co.
JVho have for fate on beard fold, veflel,
»7 calks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 11 bundles of writing slates.
1 box ink Hands and note preiles.
14 bales of fail canvafi.
And on hand,
Imperial
Hyson, and, £ TEAS.
Souchong j
4»,ooo pine e 1 as the fecft tyaality. '
19 tubs Quiekfilver.
2 chcfls Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few ehefts Manchelter goodswell alTorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes b'ack sewing silk.
l&o grates Queens ware well alTorted.
10 tons sheet lead.
Nails assorted, flat andflurp points.
London Partic.tlar, } wins pipe ,
K-YorfSlL, 5
40 pipes and lohoglheads Tenerifiewine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
130 logs Mahogany.
Nov 7. tth&frf
Oh SATURDAY EVENING, the loth December, at
6 o'clock, a' the Merchant's Ooffee-Houfe, will be
fold, the following
Houses, Lots, and Meadow Ground :
TWO neat w*H fipilhed three (lory brick houses, 16 i-»
feet front, with convenient kitchen*, north fide market
between Seventh and Eighth-streets. Each house has the
privilege of an alley. The lots are 150 feet in depth.
One two llory brick house in Zane Street, commonly
•ailed Sugar-alley ; the house is 16 1-4 feet front onfaid
alley, with a gooJ kitchen. The lot is 90 feet in depth.
One vacant lot adjoining the said house in Zane-flreet,
16 1-4 feet front, and 90 feet deep, at the end of 90 feet
the said lot widens to 33 feet and runs back to the Market
street lot* ill feet.
One two story brick house and kitchm in Zane-ftreet,
16 1-a feet front, The lot 45 feet in 1 cpth.
Orre other lot situated at the distance :>f 92 feet from the
tact fide of Eighth street. containing inlr ngth eafl and weft
40 feet, and in breadth north and south 10 feet, fubj«& to
a yearly ground rent of 40s.
i> 1-2 acres (according to the origittal deed) of ehoice
meadow ground, with a wharf on ths river Delaware,
towtzlhip, late the estate of the widow Parker.
Three acres and 6 perches of meadow ground, in Paf
fvunk towrfhip.
Any person inclinable to treat for the above property at
private sale is requested tQ enquire cf George Cooper,
comer of market and Fourth flreets, south lide.
Nov.. 29.
Mrj. Grattan refpeafully informs the fubferibers
t» the
Ladies' Concert,
That the firft will be on Thursday the 4J nd of
December, and Mrs. Grattan takes the libertr of re
setting the lubferibers to fend for their tickets anv
ctreet 1 Thurfdiy ,he th » "N* 39> N - Sixth
Mrs. Grattin begs leave to inform the Ladies and
Oentlemen of tht City, thtt the fubfcripticm-book is
at bcr house, No. 39, North Sixth-ftrcet, for re
ception of those names who wilh to honor her with
their commands. A fubfeription for eight nights
ftxteen dollars, including a Gentleman and Ladies'
tickets, both transferable. Half fubferiptiona eight
dollars, including one ticket. Single ticket two dol
lars.
December 7.
A Genteel House.
FOR SALE, a new, convenient, three-story HOUSE,
situate in Fifth, n«ar Sprwce-ftrect. Pofieflion may be
had in two months, when it will be finifced in a neat
modern style. For terms apply at No. 109, Spruce
ffreet, or 109, So. Watsr-ftreet.
December g.
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confifling of different sizes, from ia inch cables down
to rope ol 1 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the (hip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 17. dtf
Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS are horeby no tified that an
ele&ion for twelye Dire&ors ior the ensuing year will be
he! .1 at the Bank on Monday the 9th of January at teA
o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Ca£l.ier
Dec - *• St?J-
To be Rented,
A Large Vault and Cellar,
Th*t will contain 100 pipes, situate in Walnut
between Fourth and Fifth-flrects. Also a COACH
HOUhE and STABLE, with Stalls for five horses.
N. B. Goods Stored by the month.
November 30. mvrfu
For Sale,
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLI NGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&f
Just Landing,
At South-Jlreet-iuhatf, from on hoard the fhtp Stdg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Ptlcrjlurg,
The following Goods:
Rnflia Sail Diick, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Crash.
Do. Mould Candles, 4, j and 6, to th* lb. of the
Englilh fiz».
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White Sosp in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
ICnglaft, Ift and jand fart.
Horse Hair uncurlcd.
Ruflia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.^
St. Feterfburg Clean Hemp:
For Safe by
Philips, Cramond, & Go.
O&tfber l». §
PATENT SHOT.
THE general confurnptios of Patent Shot having been
prevented by the high price it has hitherto b£en fold
at, she Proprietors take this method of informing the
Public that they may in future be.supplied with that arti
cle at the fame prices as common Shot, by ordering their
Correfponpents to apply to Walkers, & Co.
London. Nov. 9 wfm.jw
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DI NT IST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Du'-i , late Dentifl to the
King and Royal Family of France, m tnber of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at i J aris,
Keeps a complete afib-tment of every thing neceflary
to be used for the
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder j Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
iweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth—he
also furnifhes Brushes and foft Spunges.
* # * He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
Fourth-Ilreet.
November 26. < tts
Imported in the late arrivals from Europe and the
WeJI-lndies,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique Molaflis, iri hoglheads
Choice old Liflron Wine, in pipes and quarter-casks
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and tjuarter-cafts
Malmsey Madeira Wine, in pipes and quarter-casks
Tetieriffe Wine, in pipes
Ruflia & FlemiJh Sheeting and Ravens Dusk, in cases
Window Glass, 8 by 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in caflis
Mill Saws and Croli-cut gaws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
A few rhefts of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; AfTafa
tida and Tapioca j and a few bales of Cofiaes,
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete affortrtient of 5-4 and 6-4
Bouiting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers 1$ Co.
OiSkiber ao dawm&thim
For Sale,
By Jehu HollingPworth, Co.
a; hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d aad 4th proof,
5 Barrels best Indigo, and, '
A few thousand bulhels of Turk»liland fait.
Oil. 17-
EZEKIEL hall
MAS REMOVED his Comptiag-Room to No. 43,
North Water-street, where he has for sale
f Boston Rum, Beef & Mackarel.
December 8. £
1 For Sale at tbit Office,
, Twenty-fix Letters, upon inte
» resting fubje&s,
I t£stßing the Revolution of America ;
Written in Holland in the Year 1780,
' Br hit Excellency JOHN A D A MS,
t he fo'e Minifler Plenipotentiary from the
United Mates of America, for negociating a Pcace,
and a Treaty of Commerce, with Great-Britain.— '
A few copies of the above pamphlet arc yet on hand,
- and may be had at the office of the Gasette of the United
State*, No. 119, Che(n*t-ftreet.
Dcc. t . <"6
, THE Partherlhip of JONATHAN rt.iKVJiY & uJ7
E being this day Difolved by mutual content, those in debt!
t ed to said firm are requested to make fpcedy payment to ■
. Jonathan Harvsy, who is authorized to receive the fame
and those who have any demands will please to bring in
their acconnts to him for settlement
The Business will be Continued
By Jonathan Harvey,
AT MIS STORM NQ. 106, S. FRONT-STREET t 1
Where he has for Sale,
» A general assortment of Dry Goods.
II November 14, 1796. § jm
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
e A IVell Selected A SSBRTNKNT of j
* Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and :
Haberdaftiery Goodb,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, en the very ]
lowest terms ;
Awongjl ivbicb are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
* Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Din>ity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslins ]
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine 1
Mantuas of the firft qtiality y
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of thefirft quality, assorted
lrifh Linens, very fine, and Tabic Linen*
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rofc Blankets assorted—See. &c. 4
O&obsr 26. d J
Irish Linens, &c. ]
. Imported per the flips Glasgow, from Dublin, Liber
ty, from Cork, and bi ig Mentor, from Belfajl,
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS, 1
In whole and half boxes,
Assorted from I id. to 4s. fterling—Alio 5-4 wide '
Sheetings, and low priced yarn and wonted Hose.
On Hand,
7-9 Wide I.awns.
■ Dnpets and Tablc-Clerhs
A few boxesTickens and Cheeks
A few bales Flannels
Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, Nos. 1 and 6
IS Boxes -) r 6 by S,
10 'Ditto > Window Glass, < ; by 9,
S Ditto J C 8 by 10.
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the '
drawback, and will be disposed of by the package on
reafonablc terms.
James, Clibborn & Englilh,
No. 6, N. Front-street.
loth mo. 19th. dtf
, Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbi's.
47 bbls. prime Coffee,
lied Boston Beef,
| Codfith in bdi.
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 Of T
Northern J ° 1
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior |
- qualiiy.
A few boxe6 excellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
1 40 Pipes excellent Lilbon Wine.
A ew sacks of Feathers.
A tew bales India Muslins.
, FOR SALE Br
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Odlober 31. d
' Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received per the Diana, from London,
e Clouded and striped Spanish Swanfdowu
Clouded Erminats and Moleskins
Striped do. and do
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. CafTmets and Caflimeres
' Superfine printed Quiltings, newest patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general assortment of Dry
> " Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season.
November e. dtf
** •
Cheap French China.
THE finding it impottible to fnpply their
' store with any Itiore China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the manufactories, give no
-1 tice that they xfrfll fell at prim? cost the remaining
flock on hand, confifling of
Dessert Setts, •
Tea-Tablo Setts
Separate Cups and Saucer*
Groupes and Figures
Alabaster Vases '
Looking Glades, \tt gilt frames,
Besides India Japan'd Toilet Defits, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIER & Co.
Ne. 91, South Sccond-ftreet.
December ;th. tti
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 16S, HIGH-STREET.
Has ton Sal*, Wholesale and Ritai£,
MADEIRA WINE, of jft quality,
Old Sherry, Lifbuii, and Pert Wints,
Cognac Brandy,
Jamaica Spirits,
Wine bitten and
Claret in cafea.
A!fo fcr file,
A few barrels of excellent Beef.
December 7.
RAISINS.
A few Calks and Boxes<of Excellent Fresh RAISINS,
just received, and for sale by
Joseph Antbsny St Co.
Also a new It i-j inch CABLE, i»o fathoms long.
December £,£ '
Just Arrived,
In tbe (hip Dispatch, Captain Morton, from Havre
de-Grace, and tor sale by
Isaac Snowden, jun. No. 141,
SOUTH SECOND ST REE r ,
An invoice of Gloves of various kinds, Men'a
White Silk Hole, Black and White Lice*, and a few
pieces of Black Silk.
December 2. Jiv.
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and k«gs
Ditto Salwon, by th« dozen or single ooe
Dry Codfifh, from one to fifty kcntals
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the {tone <
and ground, for manure and flucco-work
December i. £tf
Imported from London $3° Liverpool,
EARTHENWARE, in crates and hogsheads, well
assorted •
Wine Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of all fizea
Two cafe* of stationary
One chest of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roil Arnotta
A small consignment of Rose Blankets, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &c.
Paints of various colors,
Balket fait in hogsheads. '
Also on band,
Madeira wine, vary old, in pipes, hoglhoadi and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different sizes
A few trunks »f ladies French sHoes assorted
Silk nan keen,&c.
Likewise an assortment of Dutch goods, conliftin; of
Ofnaber.'S, tickli#l>erg«, bed-ticks, stripes, cheeks.
Morlaix. linen, platillas, ravens duck, Britannias, &c«
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas &f John Ketland.
Walnut-llreet Wharf.
Nov. 15. eotf
Old London particular Madeira Wine y
Landing from on board the barque Eagle, £apt. Bates,
and for sale by ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. #6, Sauth Wharves.
November 29. eodtf
SALT PETRE.
A large quantity of Doilble-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 15, South Third-street.
November 5.
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth Jireet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for thsir liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors. 1
He has on hand an extensive assortment of the
Moji Fashionable GOODS,
And of the bed quality, suitable for thu jfrnfm.
At this (hop Gcmiemen can be furniftied wr.. S'ft
materials, and have them made up in the n -ir t and tnoft
Fashionable manner, and on the Ihorteft n - He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay j. prompt and
punctual attention to them.
November 10. wg
1
Dancing.
MR. FRANCIS of the New-Theatre, in conjuntftlon
with Mr. B\ RN, late Ballet-master and principal dan
cer of Covent-Garden I heatre, now of tl tw-'Theatre
—will open a« Acad my at Mr Oeilers Hotel, on Tues
day, December 13, where th«y propolt to teach in the
most new and approved nuthods, dancing in its various
ufefuland ornamental branches.
Mr. Bym's recent attention 10 the dances of London
and Paris will enable him to complete this branch of
education in his scholars in the molt finilhed style.
Faverite Scotch reel* will also engage their pait.cular
attention.
For farther particulars e quire of Messrs. Franeis
and Byrn, No. 70, north
*„* Private tuitisn as ujjual.
November 30* mwStf
CONSTITUTIONS.
* ——
This Day is Published,
And to be Sold by W. WOODHOUSE, No. 6,
South Front-street.
THE
Constitutions of the United States,
ACCORDING TO
The Latefl Amendments.
To which are annexed,
The Declaration of Independence,
AND
The Federal Constitution, *
IVith the Amendments thereto.
This Edition contains the late Constitutions of New-
H'ampfhirc, Kentucky, and Tennessee, not in any for
mer sne. Nov. a 6.New Theatre. —
On FRIDAY EVENING, Dtcembet 9,
Will b« presented, 4 TRAGEDY, called
X MACBETH.
> , m*..*,.-
■ 1 Mache'h, Mr. Cttrper,
Theatre,
being hit JirJl appearance on this Jlage.)
Duncan, Mr. L EJlrange,
Malcolm, Mr. Fox.
Donalbaine, Matter If'arrell. '
Macduff, Mr. Moreton. m
Banquo, Mr. IVarren. «
Lenox, Mr. Warrell, jun. __
Siward, Mr. Morris. Ar .
Sjyton, * Mr. Darky, jun. jf a ,
Doclor, Mr. H'arreV. _
Messenger, Mr. Mitchell. Br,
Lady Macbeth, , Mrs. Morris. —
Gentlewoman, . _ Miss (Udfield. Br,
Hecate, . Mr. Darky. Bn
First Witch, ■ Ml'. Wignett. , Bn
Second Wjtch, Mr. Francis.
Third Witch, Mr. Hafivood.
With* the origiiflu'lfcufic and Accompaniments, "by
• ; ' Matthaw Locke'.
•** Tht'Yccal parts by Meflri. Darlej, jun. Mitchell, '
Warrell, Ifarrell, jun. Bli/fett, mrs. Warrell, mis. '
Oldmixon, mrs. Harvey, mrs. Gillingham, mrs. Doc- &'■
tor, mrSfMcehtler, mrs. V EJlrange, mi it' MHtrournt, *
jjnifj L'EJlrange, lie. .
. With new Drefles and' Decorations.
4 To which wjll be added,
.j? f iAsQQMIC. OPERA, in tacts, called —
'■'* J \ >The Prize, T>
« - ■«* Or, 2: 5. 3.. 8.
' LeHitive, • Mr. Harwood.
Alr.jHfartwell, Mr. Fox-,
' Mr.TjKdy, Mr. Jfarrell. g,
LibaKT' • Mr. Francis. _
ii. . BtJy, f.'- Master IVarreU. _
Juba, * Mil's Milbturne. Bi
: Mrs. Caddj', Mrs. L'EJlrange —
' Caroline, Mrs. Oldmixon. Ct
* * On Monday the tAIR PENITENT, and —
WHO'S THE DUPE.
Box, One Dollar, twenty-five cents. Pit, one Dollar. CI
AttA Gallery, half a dollar. —
Tickets to bj h«d at H. &P. Rice's iSosk-ftore, CI
No. 5© High-street, and at the Office adjoining the c '
Ifcea<re. C J
Pljtes f»r the Boxes to be taken at the Office in the
frontjgf the At-atre, from 10 till 1 o'clock, and from C '
jq ttTrio'n the days of performance. 1
The Docys ©f the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Cwtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
' rirAT RESPUBLICA! &
OLD THEATRE. %
TO-MORROW EVENING, Saturday, Dec. io, ■?
Signior.f ALCONI %
Will have fjversl new Experiments, too numerous Ft
to be. «xpre(fed herein, among which will.be in- F>
trodiiced a principal Piece, called —
» Theophrajlui Paracelsus.
this pifirfiyiriiiaitee. ■exhibits to view a little solid I _
1$: sealed up m a tumbler, and will _
e&ry queflion put to it.—This Agent p
or*Ofc!d in ctr#r*<y » new" difeovery, and has always c
'incited the admiration of the connoifcurs.
The SURPHISING WATCH, G
Which mly be handled by any of the company— G
The exhibitor wUJ cav.fe. it to flop or g», at the plea
furepi the Jpecta'.ors, without touchi»g it.
A curious ii'ji inftruiflive experiment of C
Jfugtneniing or D'ttninijhing the IVeight ttf Gold. G
Stiver, Diamonds, and Prccitus Stones.'
The PALENGENES'IS. G
The wonderful one of the Pi J
And, for the third and last time, the celebrated and I _
-mtich admired _
Thunder-Storm, -<
With many improvements and amendments, which
" will render'it highly inftrefting, and cannot fail to
excitt more aftoniflirnei.f and approbation than it has f
ytt done. j
The'IRISH FARMER,
And tr/rious other turioup interludes A
To conclude with the ROPE DANCER, |
t • Who will display himfelf in a more masterly alan- /
< jier and with more aclfvity than he has hitherto done. /
Tickets to be had at Mr. North's, next door }
to the theatre—Boxes may be taken at place. /
No money received at the door.
4x: so .begin J o'clock. I I
Waihington Lottery.
The 44th and 45th days' drawing of the Waftington
Lottery, No. a, are received at the office No. 234, Miir- ~
ket-ftreet, tickets may be cxaoiintd.
N. B. Inlormation given where tickets fn all the other ~
- lottrri may be procured.
December 9, 1796. ■. d . 3
' "the STOCKHOLDERS i
* r Of the Bank of the United State's I
Are hereby informed,
-THAT, according to the Stattite of Incorporation, a 1
General Elciftion for Twenty-Five Directors will be 1
■held at the Bank 6f the United States, in the Glty of I 1
Philadelphia, en Monday the second day of January J
next, at tan 6'clock in the forenoon * j
Arid, pursuant to the clevtntli fe&ionof the Bye Laws, -
" tfcr. Stockholders of the said Bank are hcrehy notified to
aflemblc a General Meeting, at the fame placd, oa Tnef
day.the third djiy of January next, at five o'clock in the
evening.
By order-os -the Board of Dire&orff.'
* G. SIMPSON, Caihiet
ind Fundamental Article.
-Not more than three'fourths of the Diredtrrs-in dffice
ixclufive «f tbu Urcfidept. Ibjlfies-cligilils far the ajxt
Succeeding year, but the Dire<ftor who shall be It
.at the time of an elation may alw.iyt bj: elected.
tTi be
i. A PLANTATION, in tke town o( Wnodhury, eflfcC]
il ty as GlbuceftcT r aad lhtf of Ne^>]rif-y,'tQ<tAf f
' < ir>g abouk'onc hundred v aud fifty aci e$ ;' a'.
tio'n oi which is \vo6dland and imjiroved
great put bf the arabU land is in a |
flon,~'and verv natural to the prod of j
7 On i-aii plantittori there is a gentfel
iwithiouj' ropms cnt a ando good dry c'AQtW
the wkole ; togctffcr with .1 barn, cwrn-crifct*ajfa«a|l| i
Iftule l'hif 'earilen is large, contains J ;
tion or the belt kinds of grafted mnailated fruitVntfs j
the orchar'dcoflfillsof abatit thrVl }
• ""tj-ees. Any person iitcjftied laid .
- be informed as the ter»s by applying to
ANJJRIiW, HUNTER. ■
J>'.!y»9
•< '•■■■» " ? ; v
PR IC ES-CU RR E N i".
Philadelphia, Dec. 9. t>
O'
fta QUANTITY DOLLARS AT 100 CENft. g
DM. Ctr. DoHr Cts "
AtfCHOR* per H. ii Wai/i, Si/, i<* ltd, (l
Al'um, EnMp.tr c-wt 10 and tod, per lb. T3 (<
Ditto, Rod,, pr a- " - , „
Alhrs, tot per tsn, OU, J*JM, per g.lt. 133
n--' 100 Olive, a
Jrr..-t, ?< r , e f> . *
fiacon. Shower, fir. a. —S,Ocet he". m
—mute,,
Brar/i, eom-r,", Is° A >» **M'' « ,
Crvt'. ' % bottles, 7 u
BptOU», 9° StermackiprgM- I 06 „
Erich, ? er M. 7
Bread, flip, p er evet. J53 per gsl. 4<=
Ditto, pi',t 9 Porter pet-e,:jk, 733
DM, [mull luttcr Lndon,jpr /«. 15° »
, ptr ty, « 8o America, do. I»tt. I
Beer, American,inbot- * S
tie,, per dozen, lot- Pitch, per iU. 4 "
' " tie, included, * Btirlhgton, per
' Ditto, per barrel,- & lar "'' '9 10
Board,, Cedar per Mfeet 30 Loivef countyi 19 V
' Heart. 3° Carolina, 16 x
A4wf.fW.i6 6 0 Pea,, Albany, prbifi. 93 ,
Oat, Pepper, per lb. 3&
Merchantable pine, IO Pimento,, 14 .
j jrih, do. 17 Riiftni, befiper keg IO J
Mahogany,pr foot v 12 Ditto per jar, 45° ,1
the abobo are the fballop Ditto per box 8 i
price,, for the .tard Rice, p» tint. 5 t
price, add I dollar, *»> P'r rrtl 450
Slant,, ptr M. Rum, Jamaica,pr gal. 167 .
Brim/lon. in roll,, per Antigua 1 5° 1
c7V f 3 IVin diva rd I JO r
' BeeJ,BoP.on, perbll.l6a 18 -Barbados I »7 ,
Country, ditto .15 Country, N. E. 90 (
prrfb, "eivt, s'» 8 Saltpetre, ptr c-wt. S°
Butter per lb. 18 a JO Saffra,, per ton
in ler, 14 ■««', ditto 140 «
Candle, Sperm, per li. 56 Steel, Germni per lb. 14 I
Wax —Engljh,blifl.pr civt. II 14 ,
J Myrtle Wax to —American, per ton i-J3 "33 ,
Mould tallow 18 to 19 — Crowley, ,pr faggot 13 33
Dipptd IS S "" { ' root, per lb. 35 1
r. Cheese, Englififer 11. zi Soap, brown per ih. II i
country II al3 —White 14 I
~ Chocolate *5 4 33 —Ca/lile 1% (
c Cinnamon 66 Starch 14 ;
Clove, 1 5° Snufpr doz bottle, 5 53
, Cocoa, Per cwt. *0 Sfiermaieti refined pr lb. j
_ Coffee, per lb. Sail cloth, Englijb. No.
Coal, per bushel, 3° *4° I, per yard, 33 ;
Copper a,, percivt. IJC -* BoHtn, No. I, do. $0
' Cordage, American, per No. 2, do.
cwt. I6itß Sugar, lump, ptr lb. 14
Cottoa, per lb. 33 {> 5® Loaf, jingle res. *7
Currant, 16 ditto double ditto
Duel, Rujfia,perpieie, Ijalß Havannah, white 10
Ra-jens II Ditto brown 16
Dutch Sail Duet »1 —Mtrfccvadop.cwt 14»7
' Feather,, per lb. 66 Eafi India,- pr.
Flax, ditto 11 ewt. 15
IS Flaxfeed, per bujhel I Sp. Turpentine pr gall. 66
j. Flour, Sup. per bl. IO S° Salt, allwn, pr iufhell 66
Common, IO —Liverpool 51
Bur miadl. bell, 6a 8 —Cadiz 60
Meal, Indian S —LJbon 56 .
d ditto Rye, 6 30 Ship building IV. 0.
11 Shipfuffp-et. 167 frame, ptr ton »I6J
11 FufHc per ton, »5 Ditto Live Oal, s 16
f» Gin, Holland per cafe, 75° Do. Red Cedar pr foot
Do. per gall. I JO Shinglet 18 inctc,,pr M
Glue, per lb. l 8 M- 4JO
— Ginger,whittract,prswtl% Ditto ifeet 9 II
j- Ditto, common 14 Ditto ifeet dreffid 17 ,11
Ditto, ground 14 Staves, pipe pr 1000, 65
Ginseng, ° ptr lb. 30 wbilcealhogshead 45 33
J Gur.powder, cannon,per *—Red-oak ditto l 8
ijr.caJk, 10 Lagan 16 33
Ditto, fnegOtXed, 18 Barrel 30
Grain, Wheat pr b I jja I 5® Heading 44
Rye, I Siin: Qtter, belipr piece 3 33
'd Oat,, 40 —Minis l 6
rlndianCorn, 97 —for, grey it to S4
—: —Barley, I 15 —DitUred I 10
, bejlfbelledpr.lb. —Martins ,;e
Buckwheat per —Fibers 57
bujhel, 75 —Bears 3
Hams, pr. lb. 13 —Rjcooirs 60
Hemp, imported, ptr —Mush-rats, 37 :
ton. 3«0 —Beaver, per Ih. I 6l j
American, per lb* IO —Deer, in hair 15 i 33 '
Herrings, per bbl. 6 Tar,
n " Hides, raw pr. lb. S/09I —Carolina jsl gat I. %50
Hops, 14 Turpentine, ftr bbl. 3 XQ i
or Jiotrfbeud Loops ptr M. 30 ' Tobacco, J. River befl
C. Indigo, Ftench per lb. 125 lOOlb. $ 9
Carolina, I Pcterjhurg 7*7 5°
Irons, fad ptr ion 133 33 —— Potoivmae 5*6
**■' Iron, cajfirgj 'prr crcl. 4 —— ■ '6 ? 7
—Pennfylv.bar scarce Caiekia 6»6 50
i2O £12667 Tea Hyson, per lb, I to 1
r _ --— Rujjia per ton 97 —Hyfvh Jhin, 353
Pig 32 —-Soucbptig, I a I 13
cr -Sheet, 224 33 Congo, 50
—Nail rods, *33 33 —Bchca, 35 •
Junk percivt. J Tallow, rejined, per lb. 14 '
— Lardfjiogsper lb. 14 Tin, per box it 20
Learfinpigi, per ciut. 533 Vnniila, per 2o a 24
" ■ in bars, 7 Vtriigreafe, do. • X
• lubite, 13 33 Vtfrmillion, ts^
— r«/, 9 Farn jb, per ga!?on y
a Leather, foal per lb. 20 IVax, Btes, per lb. 33 j
be Lignuth vita per ton, 24 Whalebone, ik. 12
of IlogrvOody 50 Wine*, Madeira pr p. it 6
fy Mace,, per Ik. 13 —~~Li[bon, 133
Mackerel, bejl per bbl 12 *fcner 'ijfc,prgal. 70
r», ■ second quality 3 ■ Fdyal, *60
to Madder, befl per lb. 20 Port prr 160
ef- Garble, tDrought, prfoot 60 • - Do. in bnti pr doz 6
he Ma(l-fpars, per foot 60 Claret,per ca/k. 60
Molasses, per gall. 56168 — Stfrry, ter gallon I 42
Muflard, per lb. 46 —-—Mulaga, 90
flour, in bottles,
per dozen, I 20 *
\cc '
JftANK. sr4t»i, v - - - 19 to aopcr^t
* Wn-Tylvaf?- -V - - 13 to '.4 do.
North Amerifa, -• - - - 401045 do.
ljifuraiy.e.Conip» W. A. ftatfs, - 37 l-lto 4opef ct.
-JU. v i 1-2, to 5 per ct. below par.
COURSE OF EXCUANGE.
London, at3odiy«, par to 175
»iy J* at 60 days, par to 170
-r*~* at 9° d»y#» 161 i-i to par.
60 days, per 40"
,] 90 day., '
,V ' *
■■ : " ' -
i JJ !>*. 1 j"LL* .gJ ! 11
Irom the Mwlahd it(sumo.
le
- Mr. Cowan, . . -
YOU will oblige a correspondent by mlerting
the following extract of, and remarks on, an address
of the Executive of the French republic, to the
Spanish nation. 0 |
it Ancient an<? natural allies of France, dtgnihec
r " people, generous and loyal nation, &c. Sec.
'• We have not both of us the fame form of go-
. « vtnmtnti France is forever a republic, and you
» have placed in the hands of a fugU man, the au-
| <> gufi elcpofst of year latut. But it is not the refem-
<■ S/anct of conjlitutions that forms between two na-
" /inns the firmefl political tie : the truest and bell
" alliance consists in their national interest*, aid
" above all, in the honourable profeflion of the <■
" fmne principles of morals, loyalty and umverfal
' " joftfee, Sic. 1 ' cc
In the golden days of Genet and Fauchet, the
. rtverfe of this dodrfne was held up to our citizens
3 as the only found faith. It was the interest of
France to, inspire oar citizens with such a hatred a
gain 11 all monarchies, as to indispose them to endure
any. fort of conned ion or treaties with crowned
heads. It was the interest of the French to pre
vent the United States from fettling their disputes
with Great-Britain, because, as she wished us to
I make a ™ common cause" with her in the war, (he
, naturally saw a greater profped of bringing us to
join in the war, while the old dilputes with
o land werq unsettled, than in a (late of things where
'in these difference* (hould be amicably adjafled hy
treaty. Her minifteis and her minions of course
° 7 attempted to dired the nation's will, by propagat- '
o ing political sentiments and dogmas, co-operative
0 rowards views upon this country. A favourite
7 piinciple among these abfti aft philolophcrs was, that P
republic! ought not to form auy treaty of amity or e
commerce with Hogs t and that, refcmblance in forms
of government was the best basis of friendfhip, al
-4 liance and intcreourfe between nations. We now
* perceive, that as it became the interest, so it was
the avowed policy, nay, theory, of the French di-. P
re&ory t® propagate a different fentirncnu In the .
1 address, they set out with the proportion, that
4 though France is a republic, and Spain a raonar
-2 chy, in which the king i> " the aoguft depoflt of ln
* the laws," it is not a refeuiblance of conjlitutions that
forms between two nations the firmefl political tie.
Thus, it isfaid, and so it will be with us, as long
3 as we are prone to accept as proper, those fenti- P'
A ments which the Biitirtl or the French find it con- P :
yenient to inspire. Common reason will tell eveiy
'* man, that every nation has enough to do to take P'
care of itfelf: and a very small knowledge of po
io litict is fufficient to convince every man, that inter- F.
6 efi is the great objed of every government on earth. P 1
' 7 The above dodiine, as laid down by the diredory tc
of France, U a Angular demonstration, added to ""
>6 other proofs, of the danger we run in greedily em
>6 bracing foreign dogmas. Many people were, for 1
!* some time, diftradedly delighted with tlubs and
.5 fraternity } and some were almost enamoured of the
' guillotine. These, and fomc better and wiser thai u
>7 these, adopted the principle, that a republic (itauld
hold no friendfhip, no treaty with a monarchy '
All this delufivc fanaticifm, and, in many, this '
, 0 philanthropic error, will, if they proceeded from ''
[2 imitation of the French, ccafe, when the rotation of'
la every year for three years patt, has brought for. '
ward, for fre(h imitations, modes of political faith,
direftiy the reverse of such as had, like a dress, f '
~ been a little while belore in vague, and are now t!
out of fafliion. Clubs are now abolilhed in France, l '
not as here by contempt, but by law. "Refem- 1
33 blance of constitution" is not now the>beft tie be- J
tween nations in France ; and we find our good ally 1
Jq and fitter republic, drawing closer the bonds of ami
;c ty and eternal friendfhip with her good and " na- 1
57 tural «lly" the kind of Spain ; who, "king, is "
very well: but ar. the fame time,' thir;">.Ugufi: de
posit of the laws, is, by hereditary "-titfe, one of 8
J the In;ii\ abfulute misters of his fubjefts that our a
3.3 ' republican filler could have found in Eurbpe. J
j France is right in. so doing, if her interest leads
s ° her to it. All that can be inferred is, that the U- (
j nitre) States have the fame right, when their inte
rests leads them; and that Frantt, or her roiuiiler )
$o here, k t<i have no pretence to objed to the c*ercife 1
of it, so long as we so exercise it an not lo violate J
the rights of France.
5 " 22A Nov. 1796.
S3 ""
,3 From a London Paper. <
35' GENERAL PICHEGRU'S' CAMPJIGNS. ]
14 . ,
10 This very interesting tfork contains a number of
curious anecdotes, a few of which we have ex- (
traftcd.
50 s 1
Ina briik engagement which took place between 1
33 ; Cotirtray and Ingeimtinßer, the 20th regiment of <
12 cavalry {offered their cannon to be takm. Gene- 1
ral Pichegru gave orders that neither this regitnent, :
■to nor any other that thou};! lose their cannon, should ■
60 be fnpplied with any till they had taken an equal
mimtxr from the enemy. Within three days after 1
thisutrarr, the 20th regiment took four pieces frem
the enemy. ;
90 In the engagemont between Moreau'sdivilion and
troops, near Lincclles and Blaton, fifty ]
ef the enemy's hyfe made their way into out park 1
of artillery. Some B c 'gian recruits, who were left <
to guard the park, threw down their arms and fled.
Our cannoneers snatched up their rmilken, and plarv I
• l 7 itJ lUemUlues the am«u»iitloii waggons, fi
red upon the troo'pers, and killed several, and ton
•pelled th<f remainder to take to flight. This pre
sence of mind saved the artillery of that division on
*■(9 this occasion. ,
During the siege of Ypres, a (hell fell on the :
knapsack of a soldier of the second battalion of La
ct. Conezf, which cut the (traps of his knapsack, and
'»r. a pot of batter that he had placed above his
nec<JTafiej. This volunteer, who was a native of
Liinoufin, was not at all affected by the danger,
but, looking eagerly at the fragments, cried in his
provincial dialed, " Ah I grand Di, mourt toupide
! urra !de quel larai yau mo foupo Ah, Cjod !
iiiy poor pot of -butter 1 what ihall I do now to
make my soup ?
battle of Huugledcn, the 62c?, ot ih e
24th demi-brigade (I cannot recoiled* w },ich
these it was) wai potted by the fide of the road
leading fiom Jloufficlaer to Hooglcden. TWe ie.
giment of Latojir, which is one of the fined rai
ment of dragoons in the Emperor's service, ad»a n .
ced along the road, covered with their cloaks. The
chief of this defni brigade, not feeing the uniform
of the Auftrtans, thought it wa» a detachment of
our cavaljjjr ; *ud when his njes' were preparing to
fire, he eried, " Stay, (lay, I think tbey belong , 9
11s." The commanding officer of the dragoons an.
fwe red, 'Yes, we are Trench. But what do you
do in that dangerous position ? You will have the
whole army of the enemy upon yon. Take n r
advice and change your position.' Ai he finiM
these words, he discovered his uniform. Our offi
inilantly gave orders for his men to fire, and i
sharp engagement ensued. An entire (quadron n f
the enemy were '.eft on the field. The road *3.
covered with the carcaflcs of men and horses. The*
carnage wai (hocking.
Through the whole of this campaign our bifan
try flood the shock of the cavalry with perfect ft ca *
dinefs. There was no aharge in which ihey were
broken or thrown into confufion. This is the in
credible steadiness of pur foot soldiers, which haa
made our armies invincible. Its conduit will f orm
a period in the history of military tranfaftions.
The moment the infantry fuffer tbeicJelves'tobt
broken by the horse, they expose thetnfelves to be
«ut to pieces But if they have the courage to
main firm, they feldorn or ever fail of gaining the
advantage. TJie cavalry of the enemy have often
beeh fcen to charge our foot,on the full gallop. The
firfl rank of infantry difcharjred their mulkets and
presented their bayonets. The second and third
kept up a constant fire, and the horses were com
pelled to retire with loss. If our battalions had fuf
fered themselves to be broken, the cavalry would
have made a terrible carnage, and we could have
fuccceded in no enterprise.
Gafpard Thieric, colonel of the 9th regiment of
Hll (Triis, was reconnoitring with his regiment; »aiL^
placing feme Lro»p««~ In-u STftTJow way,
he propofsd to draw the eaemy into it, by provok
ing them to a&ion, and afterwards flyinjr before
them. He ordered his hussars to insult the enemy
in every possible manner. They accordingly advan
ced pretty near the Auflrians, calling ihem the
(laves of despots, and giving them such other names.
The abuse was returned by the enemy, who re
proach* J our troops with being compelled to take
paper food, with killing their king, and me'ting
down their church-bells. Tbey, mean while, fnf.
pcfled the snare, and could Bot be tempted to move.
One of our hussars, at length, losing all patieoce,
galloped up and killed an Austrian trooper with a
pistol (hot; but the enemy, instead of being drawn
to seek revenge for this insult, cried out Bravo !
mention honourable 1 insertion au Bulletin! Bra
vo ! Honourable mention ! insertion fn the Bullc
-1 tis 1
A hussar of the 9*h regiment, whose name was
Petre, was sent to a village itj'-Brabant, to protect
| the inhabitants from marauders. A party of these
I entered the place, and fcarchinjr for concealed ef«
fefts, dug up a small box, in which all the inhabt
, tants of the village had deposited their money. Pe
! tre arrived at the very moment when they were car
fi i"ying °ff their booty, and drawing hii f»bre, by his
intrepidity and firmnefs, he induced the plundered
to take to,-flight. He called together the inhabi
' tants, who opened the box in hi« presence. Itcon
' tained ninety thousand livres, and Petre was desired
to take what he pleased from it. Petre thanked
' them, and only added " I have done my duty, and
you owe me nothing, but 1 would advise you to
' hide your money better in future."
It rarely happened that the emigrants fuffeted '
themselves to be taken alive, especially in any great
numbers. The brigade of Jourdau, however, took
S Putty-fix belonging to the Legion of Rohan, the
r greater pertot whom were convi&ed of emigration
and condemned to be (hot. Among them was a
young man from the Department of the Pas-de-Ca
lais, who declared lie had been diiven to quit his
' counijf on tie grea;elt extremity, and to escape
from the fury of Lebon. He heard his fentencfi
with of an innocent man ; and hav
' ing begged pcrmifli™ Jo w.ite to his brother who
C was serving among the Emigrants, he expressed
e hirafclf on tbci»ax in " De "J
brother, at the time you will receive tins Iffttef, I
(hall be no more ; I beg of you to fell my camp e
quipae*, pay my debts, and take the remainder to
your own use. You know 1 was driven so it to
>. save mvfelf from dying of hunger. The greatell
of all crimes is to bear amis against our tommy.
,f After we had entered Nimeguen, it happened
that I was.left alone at the head quarters. A beau
tiful woman, accompani«3 by her maid servant, en
.l tcred the room in which I fat, and with marks of
if extreme terror, threw her arms round my neck and
cried. " Dear General, I hope they will hot fne
t. any more bombs on the town." "No madam,
d wc arc now mailers of it."-" But will not the
»] English fire upon us "I do uot think they
:r will," I answered. . .
II She fell senseless, being quite overcome with fear,
and when (he came to herfelf, (he told me that fe
d veial shells had fallen 0.1 her \loufe, and made it a
y heap of ruins; and that one of them fe 1 very near
k her, from the terror of which she could never
i. I offered every argument my mind could fuggell
V to calm her apprehtnfions, hut without any effett.
i-. A te.ror like this is with difficulty conquered.
gfr-—-- —' I 2ZZSS22'"
■■ • Wa(hington Lottery.
n TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be pure■ ae or
exchang»d fop prizes,.at the Office, No. 14 > , j- £
ie street, where a corred Numerical Book » P P
a inl'peftion. Also Canal Lottery Ticket* £or fa '= " r " {
A changed for prize. d> awn in the Waflungton Lottery,
which the 44th and 45th days returns are re l ■
14 \-"T Tha Business of a Broker owned o" as uiu .
of V A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be old
r, on reasonable ternu. Dtccpabtr 9 _—
WANTED,
, A WOMAN of pood character, to «ndertike^the
■ rare of a child, and who would occaliona,.v
[<) work in a family. Apply at No. 109, Spruce- r .
jtL December. ... '
1 > '
, 5-r.v- /
.. * -M_- " 1 ' T1
' BERMUDA, altat 7. ot
Somim'S It lands. J ""
hi. excellency JAMES CRAUFURD, Esq. fo<
captain general, governor, commander in chief, ws
and vice-admiral of these iflandt.
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS by my proclamation, bearing date K°
the 23d day of July iaft, licence was granted for
the importation of provisions and sundry ether ar- rn:
ticles therein particularly fpecified, into certain 9'
ports in these islands, in neutral vessels, for a limit on
ted time ; and whereas the said proclamation is now
expired ; and whereat the present circumstances of P°
this eelony render it.neceflary that such licence
ftiould be renewed a<>d prolonged. Ido therefore, nrl
by and with the advice and consent of his majesty's ln l
council, hereby declare tha" it (hall and may be law- \ r '
fill import into rhe ports of St. Gwgt and Ha- *»
milwn, in these islands, (out no other) in foreign ..
ieffelt, belonging to the fubjeds or citizens of any
ration or state i* friendfhip with Great-Britain,
floor, rice, pcafe, potatoes, bread, Indian corn, live
flock, fait beef, fait pork, and evety other fort of
provifiont ; soap and candles ; pitch, tar, turpen
tine and resin, matte, spars, yards, and lumber of all
kinds, from and after the date.hereof, tmtil the twen
tieth day of January, 1797 : And I do father- y
more declare, that all such foreign vessels, impur- J c
ting the several articlet above mentioned, or any of an
them, within thetermabove limitted, into the said
ports of St. George and Hamilton, or either of
them, (hall have liberty to purchase and carry away
Weft-India and other produce (fubjeft nevertheless
to such duties at the fame are or may be by law fub
je& to) to the full amount of their refpe&ivc car- c ' ;
goea. And I do also hereby pnblifti and make
known, that no foreign vessels of the above defcrip- *-
tion, which may load at the aforefaid port of Ha
milton, (hall bt obliged to come to the town of St.
George for the purpose of obtaining a clearance at n "
the enftom-houfe there, but that the personal atten. th
dance of the master of every such vessel at the said P {
custom-house, in St. George's, (hall be fiU£. ieiit to 10
entitle Htm eirftomary clearaa«v*>f
which the officers of the customs for these islands,
and all others whom it doth, (hall or may concern,
»re hereby required to take notice, and govern them
felvet accordingly. - d<
Given coder my hand and the great seal of these pi
iflinds thia *7th dayot Oft. 1796, andin the cl
37th y»ar of his majesty's reign. fe
By his excellency's command, r.t
HENRY TUCKER, Secretary. C
GOD save the KING I ti<
01
OAober 29. el
On Thursday the 27th inft. hi» majefty't eoun tt
*il met, and presented to his Excellency the Go- if
vernor the following address, to wit: el
•v To>his Excellency james craufurd, Esq. Cap- tc
taifl-General, Governor,. Commander in Chief, cr
and Virt-Admiral of these islands, and Ordinary ft;
in the fame— tt
The Address of his Majesty's Council. T
May it please yout Excellency, tl
We his majesty's most dutiful and loyaj fubjefts, tc
the council of Bermuda, beg leave before your ex- C c
cellencj't departure, to exprefc the sincere regret
we feel for your excellency's removal frem the go- 0 I
vernment of these islands. The immediate causes «•
ef that removal we arc but little acquainted with, r<
and we wish not, nor would it indeed become u», C i
to take the liberty of enquiring very particularly c «
into them ; but we nevertheless cannot refrain upon
the present oecafion, from rr plating the folcmn de- tc
elaratiens we have already made to your excelien. si,
ey, that tne Jacobinical principles imputed to you, hi
and thfdifaffeflion y»u are fatd to havie been ac
» tufed of entertaining towards our admirable confti
t lit ion, are charges, in our opinion, so totally
greundlefs, that they could only have been dictated tl'
by the most inveterate and rancorous enmity. We /
flatter ourselves, however, and it is our earned
prayer, that the clouds which now hang over your
excellency, may soon be dispersed, and that they
may be faccecded by better and brighter profpefls, £
-—persuaded as we ate that your excellency hat
conscientiously discharged the trust icpofed ia
you by our most gracious sovereign, and that you f v
have made his majesty's ferrice and the prosperity t(
of this country the sole rules of jour admioiftra- f (
tion, we have every reason to hope, and believe,
that (his mß!t be the cafe. n
Permit us t« return our warmest thanks to your i 0
excellency for the polite attention you have honor- : ai
ed us with ; to assure you, fir, of our unfeigned t ]
esteem and regard, and to add cur most ardent
wi(hes for your excellency's future prosperity and p
bappinefs. | n
By order of the board, 1 r ,
HENRY TUCKER, PieGdent. \ y
©Sober 27, 1796. n
To which his Excellency returned the following an
swer. 2
Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Coijncil, j|
I beg yon will accept my sincere thanks for the ■ a
▼fry kind address you have done me the honour to a
present to me oa my departure. The regret you
exprefson that occasion, will be to any perfont ac
qnainted with your charaEteis, a sure proof, that I f
have been afhiated in my whole condnft in this K ov -J /
eminent, ! zeal for the king's service, and an eat nelly
desire to promote the prosperity cf thrfe islands.//
In whatever light fomc wicked perfbn may con
tri?e to repreftnt my conduct to his m»jefty's mi
nisters, yet I rely with confidence for redress on t
the benign virtues of the Wing, on the integrity
and love of j'jftice which lam persuaded govern j
thcselion» of his misifters, although they appear j
in my cafe to have the misfortuae to have been de
ceived and led into error. L
'•» I shall always remember »he council of Bermuda h
with fentimentt of unfeigned esteem and regard,
and (hall, wherever I may be, feel a warm imereft
in wha'ever concerns the welfare of the inhabitants
of these islands.
JAMES CRAUFURD.
C./uncil chamber, Oct. 27, 1796.
1 Hurfday a council was held at the Government
houfe, when his enc'elleney James Craufurd, esq.
gave up, h s cosomiffion as govtruor of these islands.
1 »
The of c . urf e Mei t0
•f the council (the honorable Hen.y Tucker, esq.)
until the arrival „f Willi,* Campbell, esq. who is
soon expeaed here in the Asia man of war, which E
If winT" * tbc 9th inft,nl ' in 8 « ale r<
His excellency embarked this day on board the a,
government (loop for P„„ Royal, ,„d is to take el
his passage ,n the schooner Louisa, John Tucker,
matter, for New York, which fail, j, a day or two. t<
On his departure, he was saluted by ?he artillery "
on the parade.
We hear, that a new governor (Fcrbes) is ap- ci
pointed for New-Providence, in the room of lord • n
Dunntore, who is ordered home. Wh«t with an 1
arbitrary governor, and an obstinate and overhear C
•ng set of aflVmblymen, that colony has been dif-' «
trafteJ for mmy years, and government cheated of' si
>t» rights, revenues, | b
~ v
Philadelphia,
—^
FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER p, 17,4.
We learn that the Electors of Prefrtent and Vice ' v
President ofthe United States forthe State of New. 1
Jersey, have given their voles far John Adams, v
and Thomas Pincknet. | _
Yeftetday the Hnufe of Representatives of this ! „
state chose Peter Bay nton, Esq. for their clerk. t
At twelve o'clock this day the addref. a
fed both Houses of the LegiQature, in the Senate f
chamber.
— ' !
Extract of a letter from Camden, to a gentleman
in Charlcfton, (S. C.) • tl
" We have most nbnidant crops, new com is e
n»w felling here at one (hiliing and fix pence, and
the freight being but ten pence, you may soon ex- t
pedt a rapid fall in price, which must be glad tidings r
to many of your industrious chizeas." t
[Chjrljlon paprr. ] t
COMMUNICATIONS. 1
The Demos speak with, bitter contempt of the
do&rineof checks and balances. When the peo j r
pie choose their officers, what need is there of [
checks ? It is folly for the people to check them- '
selves ! Not less than JOO columns of this frothy '
r.otifenfe have been dr'awn up in b?.ttle array in the
Chronicle aad Aurora against our batjneed confiitu
tion. Instead ot arguments, it may nnfwer for
once, to quote against these ce
elaimers — One governor claims a didretion against
the letter'of a law so extensive, as to become aJmoil 1
if not quite the arbiter and absolute disposer of rhe e
election of a President ; and he piaftifes according
to hit claim. Anuthei governor steps into the fe r
crcfary't office, where the a£ls and laws of the J
(late are depoii ed in their fupp >feti inviolable f*ne- a
tuary, and detaces a law by feiatrhing out his name. '
The legislature of a southern ftata go beyond even *
thitj they actually taakt a tlieirlaws and .
iccprdt, and join with a mob lu huzza over the '
conflagration.
*: do these faSi conßin the f<m>eth opiniu:- !
ef the Demos that offic crs chosen by the pcOjlh' j '
wilj do right wiihost checks in the fyftcrn of go- 1
vernment ? Or are not Come further guardt and fe- '
curities over and above firr.ple popular cle&ion oe
ceffary to prevent such outrages ? '
Not a bene. Tbe Democrats united their fuffrages
to make this fcratcbing governor an Elector of Pre. '
fident aqd Vi~e President. His. conduct evincet '
his fit'nefs. for the trust. i
Mr. Fenno,
Yeu are requested to puhlifn the following, with 1
the note fuhioined. '• 1
■ St
» J>ram the Aurora.
* British guineas.
• How many were deposited at Shipprnjbargh to j
mtke ihetPinfourgh mail retrograde to Pittffiurgh? j
How many were given for the'fuppieffing of one »f j
' the Allegheny c»unty returnt ? many were
1 distributed in two adjoining counties to produce
1 such an extraordinary poll } How many have fallen
to fh« lot of a lean hungry figure,* wht» is famCis
for his falfehoods and fcurnlities in a certain gazttte?
' How many were diltributed upon instruments to
menace the governor into a premature proclamati
r ' on ? How many have fallen to the lot of writers of
i anonymous letters ? How roany to the bearert of
' them, and for thrusting them under the governor's
£ door ? How many were scattered ahroad for the
' propagation of iies'againft Mr. JgrFiRSON ? How
i many have bten employed upou the whole, to car
; ry tfe electoral eleflion ?—Anfwer these qneftiont,
Iye pretended " friends order and good govern
■! menl."
* If thitabufi/e attack is intended for the'refpeft
able but highly refpri» r ible'janthor of the ' Ftderal
j ill,' it Is, coufidering the quarter whence it comes,
: i a new proof as the bafenefsof the Jacobin faiftion ;
5 and oaght to be a caution to that unfortunate wight
1 qevpr te pot any confidence*in them again.
y /CONGRESS or rat UNITED STATES.
f HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, December 7.
This day precisely at 12 o'clock the President of
1 , the United Statet met both Houses of Congress
V in the Hall of the Reprefentatrvet, when he ad
-1 dreffea them in a speech (for which fee Wednef
r day's gazette.)
*. / The President was accompanied by hit Secreta
ry, the Secretaries of State, tbe Treasury and
a War tbe Attorney-General, &c.
' The hall wat tilled at an early hour with the largest
* assemblage of citisest, ladies and gentlemen, ever
' collected on a similar occasion. The Englifti, Spa
r.ifh and Portuguese ministers had featt assigned
them, and were present.
The President and Senate having retired, the
Speech was read in the houfc, committed to a com
[. rniltee of the whole houfc for to morrow. Interim
!. jffdered to be printed. Adjourned.
IP -
Thursday, December 8. « G
Mr. Scwall, from MafTachttfetts fin place of
Mr. Goodhue elected a Senator) and Mr. George
Ege from Pennsylvania (in place of Mr. Heifler
resigned) appeared and took their feats. Mr. Scl
D.ivenporl and Mr. Craik, who took th»ir sea's
an Monday, were in the placet of Mr. Hillhoufe,
elected a Senator. and of Mr. Crabb resigned.
Mr. Grifwold, from the committee appointed
to bting in a bill to amend the aft for the morege-\ Sic
neral promulgation of the laws of the United I
States, reported a bill, which was twice rend, and J
committed to a committee of the whole House to- '
morrow. ' , C
Mr. W. Smith presented a petition from Thomas!
I Carpenter, praying encouragement to the work I Sh
; which he has adrertifed of a report of tbecongref.
to be puhlilhed iu weekly num.
j bers. This petition was referred ro the committee
so which Thomas Lloyd's, on the fains fubieft, B*
was referred.
Mr. Dwight Foster presented a petition from
William Clark, for a penlion, and another fiom
the executrix of Joseph White for the payment of Sc
a reward which had been advertised for the appre
henfion of a perfwn who had committed a forgery,
whom the said White hacj apprehended.
| Mr. Foster did not know that these petitioners
■ were entitled to any relief, but would mow that the!
positions (hould be referred to the committee off i n f
claims. The Speaker informed that no such com-f
mittee at present ekifted, he moved that a commit
tee of claims (hould be appointed, which was done
accordingly. The above petition! were then re
feired to'it.
Mr. Williams mowed a refolutio* to the follow-l Sc
ing effect, which was. agreed to : ( Sli
" Resolved, that two chaplains of different de-|
nominations (hall be appointed for each House, toj
exchange weekly." if
Mr. W. Smith moved the order of the day ol
the President's addreft. The House accortfinglyl ■
resolved itfclf into a coormittee of the whole o:ll Sh
that fubjeft, Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair, w!ien,l Sc
the fptech having been read by'tfcc'clerk,
Mr. Dwight Foster moved the following refolu-J
tion: *7
" Resolved, r l|\at it is the opinion of this cora l
mittee, that a refpefttul address qttght to be pre-J
fsrited by the House of Representatives, to tlx St
President of the United States, in answer to hii
fprech *o both Houses of Ccmgrefs, at the com Sc
mencemenx of tliis feflion, containing alfurances SI
that this House will take into cocfideration, the .
various and important matters recommended tol
their attention.''
This resolution was agreed to, & Messrs. Ames,! J
Maditon, Sitgreavci, Baldwin and W. Smith, weisr
appointed acommitteeto prepare the address. J
Mr. W. Smith presented a petition worn the pott 1
mafler of Charleston, praying an actional com
pecifation to his present allowanced It was read r
and or.lercd to lie upon the a Handing
committee (hould be appointed j/r business of this
k.ic'l. p
Mr. Thatcher moved a resolution to the follow\
ing effect : " 1 n >
«• Resolved, Thre a committee be pppointed toj
• ;tci i-e if an*-and what nheiaiioiu arej>eceflary inl
the aft for Wtablifhing Jfcß-ofi-es and poll-roads'
wit!\in the United States, and to report by bill orßt
otherwise." J •
The resolution wai agreed to, and a commitieel /'
of mite 'membeis was appointed. J
Mr. W Snoith said, the romrpittee of claimsl
made a repoit op ;Ue c-.fr of Henry K2I too late inl
the lalHfeflion.'to b? taken up. He wished that re-I
port might now be referred to a committee of thclj
whole house. be
Mr. Macon had already observed, that acommitAj w
j tee of revifal and urffinifhed bwfjnefit had been ap I k
pointed, and ]ie thought it would be more regular!
to wait for theitreport, .whieh would of course iaJ _ i(
elude this business. S
Mi. W. Smith di#ne* fe«the »ecefl»ty of wait- ar
J ing for this report. He nderftood that it was the T
. business of the committei of revifal and unfinifhed
' bufipefs, to take cogmfan -eof, and to make report
r 00, such fubjefts as raigh othcrwife elcape the at- ct
: tention of the house, and not to prtelude member*
1 from bringing.forward *ny business on motion.— q
' He believed this had beer the praftiee of the house.
Mr. Macon allowed tl at it had been the p raft ice b;
'of the house to bring forward business of this fdR on It
' motion ; but that a cotimittce of revifal and un- ~
( fini(hed business had beer appointed in order to do
away thepraftice.
8 The Speaker said,' tha the present, with ail o
e ther unfini(hed business, vas sent, or would be feat,
" to the committee already appointed. The house
might however take up tht present report fcparatcly,
but h« did not think it #ould be so regular a* to _
wait for the report of the\ committee.
Mi. W. Smith thoughnthat it would be putting
too much power in the ha ids of such a committee
always to wait their report before an unfini(hed sub-
jest could be taken up. It would be in their power
' greatly to piotraft neeeffai y business. e<
r Mr. Baldwin was of opinion, that if the present
business was not of a parti i-ular urgent nature, it
would be most regular to Ivait the report of the
committee. It Isould m«rt soon, and the report
would doubtless be made fcrarly ; ?nd when it wu
made, the house would of tourfe take up such ob
jects a* were mod piefiing. I
Mr. Williams said, on Anraining the journals, f
i he found that this made a*
» early report, and that ther* Jthere
'• incenveaience fuffered in
• A MrJfc-Saiith his' 9ioti«n,.and th«
house adjourned. *' J/
i- . *
? A RICHMOND, Nov. 30.
[I On Friday lafr the General Aflembly of this ,
•r commonwealth, elected PATRICK HENRY*
1- Efq ; governor, in the room of his excellency Ro
d bert Brooke, Efq : who"h«h accepted of the of
fice of Attorney-General, vice James lanes, Efq [ j
e refined. , . «
Ycfterday STEVENS THOMPSON MAV i
» 'SON, Efq { was re-ekfted Senator from- ijbis Rate*
in the Congress of the United Sta;
/ r - Hi ?— »
IW J A
■\ .GAZtTTK OF THE ONITtD tTJTtt MAIIXI tIST.
PHILADELPHIA', December 9. '
ARRIVED. Days.
Scht. Delight, Orofs, Bolon 18
Minerva, Eikinl, ' Richmond 10
Ouon,. Rhodea, Boston 23
Carolinr, Bush, Norfolk 5
i Good liifcnt, Feffet, Virginia 5
\ Sloop Silly, Potter, Norfolk 6
I Experiment, Pottl, Virgioia 5
Sally, Dickey, Richmond 5
' Sally, Cole, Virginia 5
Friend/hip, Cote, Norfolk 6
I CLEARED.
1 Ship William Penn, Jofiah, London
Fame, Wilton, Cette (France)
Dominbk Terry, Dchart, Liverpool
S*. PoUcre Independent, Robertfon, Algijra
Brig Sally, Hayes, Antigua
Lady Walhingtotf; Gerrilh, Charleftoo
Sea Nymph, Halite, St; Crait
Columbia, Clark, • Boston
Schr. Morning Star, Art, Trinidad
Enterprise, Xnderfon, ' Norfolk
Dolly, Vanfife, C. Fr»ncoi»
Dick, Brown, Trinidad
I Ruby, Slocum, Nova Scotia
:J The fehaaner Metomkin, Capt. Allen, -belong
j ing tin New-London, was cast away on fhoaU
| near the Hook on Sunday—vcflel and cargo loft.
1 Bermuda, November 12.
\ ARRIVED.
Brig Lawfon, New-Yorfc
Diana, Fairchild, t do.
Schr. Ranging Polly, Bunbpry, Virginia
Sloop Perfeveraoce, Whit*, N. Btunfwick 4
I jane, Wainwright, Newfoundland
Mentor, B. Wells, Ne**Bfcui>fwiclt
Swift Jc Easy, Burrows, Caicdes'i
NorfoH, Navrmler 28. .
ARRIVED.
Shrp Virginia Packet, Wills, Li»erpo<»l
Schr. Ranger, Brown, St. Martin's
Amazon, Chapman, Jamaica
Dove, C r ocker, St. Bartholomews
Three JoCephs, Stambls, Martinique
New-Tori, Decemier 6.
ARRIVED. Day*
Ship Ann, Caitwrigbt, St. Übes 70
Commerce, Delanos Liverpool 40
Schr. St. Patrick, Gardner, Bermuda 19
Sloop Hergulcs, Colrer, Norfolk 5
Pantheon,
AND RICKETTX't AMPHITHEATRE.
>1 For Equestrian and Stage Performances
T Corner of Chefnut and Sixth-street*.
I' Days of Performance, for the remainder of
thc&aibn, to be Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
1 TO-MORROW EVENING, Saturday, D«e. Ip,
> Will be displayed,
« A FARIETTOF
Pleasing and Novel Entertainment?,
Both on the Stage aid in the Equestrian Depart
ment.
> The whole to caudurle (so- the third time) wi^
1 The Grand Serioui Ptmtomim*
!j> Oscar and Malvina,
I;■ Or, The Hall of Fingal.
4 f Under 'be dire fl ion of Mejfrs. Sullji and SpinaevtaJ
J (Taken from the foams 01 Oflian.)
A The music felefled by Shield, principally from
■ David, Rezzio, ind several Scotch Bards.
' 1 With new DrtfTes and Decorations.
"J The new Scenery painted by Mr. Snyder.
c /j From the great in which this piece ha#
/ j heen htld by the public, (having been performed up
\| wards of ijfo nights at Covent-Garden theatre, in
J London, ykewife at Mr. Hickett's Royal Circus,
I Edinburgh) he flatters himfelf that, having spared n»
expence, it will meet the approbation of a generous
'i public.
A Defctiption of the Pantomime, with the Songs
and Cboruflts, to be had at the Pantheon and at the
e Ticket Office.
d —
t IT3~ Doors to be open at 6 o'clock; performance to
.. commence at 7.
' Box, 7s. 6d.—Pit, 3s. 9d.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Ford, at the ticket office in
~ Chefnut-ftreet, from ten to three o'clock each d»y.
gj* Silver Tickets, to admit for the season, to be had
e by applying to Mr. P icketts at the Pantheon, or at Oei.
n lcrs's Hotel.
o FO R SAL E,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
Jie. 99, North Second Street.
'» Imperial, ") fHyfon Skin.
f« Hyson, ' f FreOi Teas. < Souchong,
r, Young Hyson, j C Bohea.
; 0 Dec. 9 . _
For Sl Croix,
The Ir'tgtniint F A M £,
*" Francis Knox, Matter.
er Lying at Walnut Street wharf and exp»<s.
Ed to &il in twe or three days. For passage oaly apply
, K£ARNY WHAItT OH.
;; Dei. >. sfh.
n Horses taken in,
" For the WinUr Season,
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, tt
miles on the Bristol Road, where good stabling is pro
vided, and great «acc will b« ukea of them
William Bell.
MJa v. ' mwfawmtfatf.
Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
/ For Two Gcatlertien, may be had at No. 63, south
Tkird-ftreet, opposite the New Bank—Where a few
Gentlemen may be aceommodate* in the Weft man
ner,with Boarding only. —
Y, .-. Ten Dollars Reward.
)T LdST, lall evening, a small packet of F**ncis Pa.
p**s, among others, an account due to the Citizen
' Maktihat, and a pewdr of attorney to the Citixea
Whoever has found ths fame, and w;H
ve is with the Printer, t>r with Cit zen Thibeault, No.
I. South Seiond-ftreet, fcajl hayt the above reward.
De%ember 7.RAN AW AT,
Ariit the ift of October last, from the plantation of
Mr. Thomas F. Brooke, (in Prince George's county) to A \
whom he washired, a NEGRO MAN, named CJESAR; comm
J 3 years of age; abont 5 feet 15 or 9 inches high.; well «j U ; re
made ; of a yellowifk complexion:; a little pockmarked;
has, when spoken to, rather a down look, and fubmiflive ___
tone of voice: the clothe* he had before be abfeonded
* were of plain, such as labouring Ne-;roes ufuaily wear,
but these he may probably exchange for others : he will
doubtless endeavour to pass for a freeman, having, as I r■ \
.hive been informed, assumed the name oFEtitler : I have I
Toefon to believe that he went to Baltimore, from whence A
-ke is said to have gone to some part of the gufquehannah, o Cloi
probably with a view of getting to Pennsylvania. A street
reward of Thirty Dollars will be giwn to the person who Four
may take him and sb secure him in some jail that 1 may
get him again, if taken in this state, jnd Fifty dollars if -■
taken out of the state, and if brought home or secured in
the jail of Prince George's county all reasonable charges CC
will be paid by ALFXR. COVINGTON. exhi!
Maryland, Frince George's County, at b
\ .2nd November, 1796. J Ilth*t&f4w ligh;
' 1 SWANN'S, " Jl
Riding School, Norse Academy & Infirmary.
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
R ETURNS his sincere thanks to those gentlernen by whom
lie has been employed, during his refidencc in this City, and I—l
flatters himfelf that the faccefs of his efforts, in the numerous, JJ
obftinate and dangerous difcafes in Horses, in which he has Pots
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe- Crer
cure their futurefavors and recemmendation. B rac
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large of S
that his spacious end commodious premises, ere&ed for the rant
purpofet above deferibed are open for the reception of pupils Wat
of either sex, who wifhi to beinftrufted in the Art of Riding, Eeai
and the right method of governing their horses, so as to ride j£ na ,
them with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be rar
carefully and expeditigufly broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient to the will of the riders ; the natural powers .
which are (hut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble anima!
all thofe'beauties of a£lion which providence has so bounti- A
fully bestowed on them. * ur£
Also, at hishofpiial, every which the horse is
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repeated experience.
The utility of the above inltitution has never been qneftion- yjy-i
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
stud will manifeft, and T. Sw a nh,as the fcrft eftanliftier of
the veterenary a t, solicits and relies upon the fuppoit ofthat
public (which he is ever anxiou; in serving) to enable him to
to perfe&ion. The idea of a fubfeription foi that *
purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman* who wilh to eu
promote the institution—the amount of each fubfeription to dire
oe returned by services in any of the departments he profefTes, or 1
agreeable to the rate of charges stated in his hand bill. Such No
fubfeription is now open, and the fignaturesof many refpeft
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore injorms his:
f friends and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he (hall in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and folicking their lupport j,j 0
and proteftioo. O,
N B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies and
Gentlemen who wilh to be inftru&ed.
Wav. j. ■ uh<tf. Coi
Lottery and Broker's Office, [tn
No. 64, South Second street. 9 J
wri
TCKETS in the Canal Lot»ery, No. a, for sale—a difj
Check Book for examination—and prises paid in mo
the late lottery. 1 h
Check Books kept for examination and rcgiftering, for mn
the City of Washington, No. 1, and Pattefon Lotteries, 1
both of which are now drawing—information where
* tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all ths prizes in the late Ncw
• Port Long-Wharf, Motel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who ivifh to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or>Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property \ I
\* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollars each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augufl »8, mt^
Trealury ot the United States.
OTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
JN may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
«f the Fsnded Debt, or Stock, luring a prefeat intcrejl of fx
ber centivnper annum.
I ft, That pursuant to an A6l of Congress palled on the
48th day of April, 1796, intitlcdan a4t in addition to an
intituled " An adl making fuithcr provision for the
support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the said debt or stock will be reimbursed and
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends 1
«' to be made on the last days of March, June and Septem- —
«« ber for the present year, and from the year one ihoufand I
« seven hundred and ninety-leven, to the year one thou- 3
•' sand eight hundred & eighteen ineluf|ve,ut the rate of
" one and one half per centum upon the original capital. <
«• Secondly, by to be made on the last day of
" December for the prelint year, and from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year Xi
« one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at tic
" the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
*• ginal capital; and by a dividend to be made on the last or
«' day of Pecember, in the year one thousand eight hun- iB
« d r ed and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
« quate, according to the contrail, for the final redemp- va
« tion of th; said flock." T
ad. All distinction between payments on account of f r
Inter*,l and Primipal being thus abolilhed by the eftablilhf ; t
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abov« de- ag
cribed, it has become neceflary to vary accordingly the !
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public tl
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
s cftablifhed for all powers of attorney which may be rf
granted after the due promulgation oi this notice, viz. w
KNOW ALL MEN BT THESE PRESENTS, tbat t
/ •/
'do make, conjiitute and appoint c
my true and lawful At- a
icrneyjer me, an Jin my name, t» receive the dividends which are, n
or flail ie payable according to W, on the (here defcribklg the d
(lock) Handing in my name in the hooks of (here deftr ibmgvthe t
books of the Treasury or the Commiflioncr of Loans, t
where the stock is edited) from (here mfert the com- ii
mencemcnt and expiration ol time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) -with power also an attorney or attor- 3
nits under him,forthat purpose to make andfuhfitute, and to do all c
Uwjul acls require for effecting the premises, hereby ratifying and r
rnnfwming all tbat my said Attorney or hisfubJliiaU,ftaU lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof. t
in IV'ttn/fs hereof, I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal tb> 1
day of in the year a
Sealed and Delivered |
in frefene'e of,
JSEIT KNO WN, tbat on tie day of )
tfire meperfonally came
■within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be <
bis aH and deed.
Jli tefiimony whereof 1 have hereunto set my Han i end affix- <
gj Seal the day andycar la/i aforyaid. I
Given »nd«r my Hand .t Philadelphia, this twen- (
tieth day of July'l796, pursuant to directions
from the Secretary of the Treafvuy.
SAMUEL MtREDITH, .
1 reafui er of the United StaKu
July »y " l£ "'
' , «»
WANTED,
As Coox, in a private family,
A YOUNG WOMAN who can produce good rc- Th
commendations of an unexceptionable cha.-a&er. L*- rtual J
quire of the Printer. i c , T e • e
November 17. tf Unite
— at 10
The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE. Ph
THE public are refpeftfully informed, that -—
this aaimal is t» be leen every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun doWB, in Market- x
1! street, No. 106, foulU fide, between Third and
3 Fourth-ftieets. . by tl
r. Admittance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci- —liu
n tizen may fee him.
■» (O* At the requefl of many persons it will be
exhilited on evenings from five to eight o'clock, h
at half a dollar each.—The room will be well [hose
lighted.
November 7.
; -x. 1 —
James Mufgrave,
GOLDSMITH & JEWELLER.,
No. 42, south Seoond-ftreet, 1 . .
"] TTAS iuft received an assortment of Plated Ware men
' s ll and Jewellery, Plated Tea and Coffee Urns, Coffee fion,
,5 Pots, Tea ditto, Castors from sto 8 bottles, Sugar and par,
e- Cream Basons, Bottle Stands, Baskets, high Candlelhcs, __N
Brackets and Chamber ditto, Branches, Sconce;, a variety
ge of Silver and Plated Shoe La chets, Spurs, (<fc. 'Sc. war
he ranted of the best plate; Ladies and Gentlemess Gold WII
ils Watch Chains, Seals and Keys; Necklaces, Neck Chains,
'g, Eear Rings, Finger Rings, Lockcti, Breast Pins, Stone
Knae-Buckles, with paany other a/ticles in the above
branches. .
nd He has likewise received an extensive alfortment ot H
:rs iapannM tea and coffee Urns, persian, blue, brown, on J
" s , black and gold. .... W\
ti« All kinds of work .athe gold aud silver line; minia- 1
tures set, and hair work executed as usual. 1
is November 9. tu th & f n
Any Person
'X Who is well acquainted -with the River f
«f M I S S I S I P P I,
And will give Direfliont for failing into tire fame, —
lj a ° t that can be depended on, ihall be genoroufly reward
-10 ed for his information, provided he will leave the
to diredlions with Mr. John Fenno, printer, Philadelphia, 1)
fes, or Edmund M. Blunt, Newburyport.
ich November 3. lawam TA
a- -— —— " city
% Brokers Office, and J {
ike COMMISSION STORE. ton
ort N0.'63 South Third ftreet,oppofite the national new Bank. mer
SAMUEL M FRaUNCES and JOHN VAN REED, an d
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of I
FR \UNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers, of 1
-— Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and vrill
fell on commiflion every species of stock, notes of hand, C
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c. the
« Monev procured on depolits, &c. &c. all kinds of app
writißgs in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and 1
—a dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the pro
in most correct manner. Comlant attendance will be given. J
They solicit a (hare of the public favor ; they ire deter- acc
for mined to endeavoOr to deserve it. hot
ies, N. B. The utmost secrecy observed. teg
xre SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, a t t
wn JOHN VAN REED.
:w- Philad. August 17, 1796. m&wtf the
for ~ City of Washington.
bl i c SCHEME of the LOTTE.RY, No. 11,
'T' FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 I THE hi ,:
FEDERAL CITY. L
' or ) 20,000 dollars, & >
111 dwelling-house, 5 30,000, are J '
1 ditto 15,000 & calh 25,00 a 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
h I ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 »o,eoo
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,o«o 10,000 a 1
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000 °' c
or 1 calh prize of 10,000 co •
ur ' ls % do. 5,000 each, are ■ 10,000 a j
•' x 10 do. 1,000 - - Jo,ooo
the 4o do. 500 - - 10,000 a ls
,an 00 do. 100 . - 10,000 .
t he 100 do. 50 - - 10,000
the 400 do. 45 - 10,000
and 1,000 do. ao - ao,ooo
;nds 15,000 do. 10 • 158,000
eiii-
sand 16,739 Prizes.
lou- Blanks.
e of X
ital. 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000 J.
f of -■ 1 Un
one N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of fu:
year Tickets,thepriae of4o,OOodollarswillbethe last drawn so
at ticket, and the 30,ooothe last but one : Ju
or '- And approved notes, securing payment in either money da
: last or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for as'
hun- any number not less that) 30 tickets. P.
ade- This Lottery will afford an elagant specimen of the pri- R
:mp- vate buildings to be ereSed in the City of Walhington— lit
Two beautiful designs are already fel«aed for the entire at
it of fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings P
ilifhf it ispropofed to creel two centre and four comer buildings, Fi
' de- soon as polfible after this lottery is fold, and to convey D
r the | them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in Si
üblic the manner deferibed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery, tc
form A nett deduaion of five per cent, will be made to defray It/
y be cfce necessary expeufes of printing, &c_*«nd the surplus
r'tz. will be made part of the fund intended for the National it
', tbat University, to be ereAed within the city of Washington. n
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are p
old off.-—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days b
I At- after it is finifhed ; and any prizes for which fortunate
rhare, numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the 1<
lg the drawing is closed, are to be confidercd as given towards
g.the the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
.oans, the whole business in a year from the etding of the draw- p
com- ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
ver of l'he real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
attor- are held by the President and two Direaors of the Bank
do all of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
ng and mount ol the lottery.
rwful- The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late afiifted in the management of the t
eal tbi Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake thijardudus talk f
'X a second time on bAals of the public ; a fufficieot num t
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the ;
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jea« may continue to favor the design. ;
By accounts received from the diflerent parts of the 1
y to be Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are assured that the
i affix- drawing will speedily commenee, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
twen- the tickets, has rendered the inort suspension indiipcnlable.
:dions SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
t James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boston ;
fteu of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells'
tiy Cooler". Ferry. M
/' v „ m
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
Tho Stockholders are hereby notified, that the an
nual Election for Officers for the ensuing year, wul
be held at the Company's office, near the Bank of the $OJj0Jj
United States, on the firft Monday in January next,
at 10 o'«tock, a. m.
By the Board of Managers.
WM. MOOtLE SMITH, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia, Dee.' I, 1796. focStlD ° r^
A Short Delay sd
, In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery,
In Wafliington city, has been unavoidably occasioned
by the nnforefeen intervention of Mr. Blodget a Lottery
* —but as the major pait ef the tickets are now disposed
of, this is to inform the public that the drawing of the Ca- s ,
- nal Lottery will tertainly commence without fail, on the 3
firft Monday in January 1797, and those holding tickets, 8
J aje hereby refuelled to fend a flatement of those fold, and to
those on hand. 3°
NOTLY YOUNG,
-DANIEL CARROLL, of Duddington,
GEORGE WALKiiR,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY, , 9*
W. M. DUNCANSON.
The Printers who gave our advertisements a plaoe in
e their newlpapers, are requested to give this notice admif
e Con, as the remaining tickets are cxpe&ed rt> be soon above
d »ar, and we wifti adventurers to be timely informed A
». '*• Z t^ 6w " finiQ
r _ tick)
DANCING SCHOOL. Dr„
d WILLIAM M'DOOGALL will open hisfchool on Mono <
s ' day the 3 lift inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his 1
Elegant hew Ball Rooms, J°J>
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets. J an
>f Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock
», on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for R
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
i- the f.ime days. _ ? 01
In addition to a number of new cotillions, he means to ln g
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels. are .
Note. The firft pra&ifing ball to be on Tuesday e- tern
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every 0
Tuesday, during the season.
T For terms, &c, enquire at his house, No.l34,Market
fteeet. ■ rr(
Oft. 17.
e, — — —- t
d _ cent
Samuel Richardet
a, p ESPECTFULLY informß the Gentlemen
IV Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS OOFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia*. *
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the 9
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- 10
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principil com- 100
ik. mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
D, an d none permitted to be taken away on any account,
of Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety *33
rs, 0 f French Liquors; together with the usual refreihmente, 4®»
nd w iU »t all times be procured at the bar. "
•d, Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with 635
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most £
of approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries, mg
nd The Larder will be with the prime and earliest eric
he production? of the Season. f° r£
;n. Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be to r
sr* accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at in t
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is n
regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had '
at tha bar. con
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniftied, and ma;
_ the utmost attention paid to cleamlinef®, and every other sou
Tequifite. ets
0" SAMUEL Richarhet will behappy to receive, and I
: T execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
> large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre
fervethat patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RANAWAY from the fubferiber on the 23d Oflober,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
old ; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mked green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped veil ; a pair of dark spotted p.intaloons, a«d
whole boots msdi worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has bepn aceuftomed to driving tlO
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may get him °r.
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by ly
Robins Cbamberlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 Cjmiawtf
Treasury Department, n0
September 28, 1796. f u
XTOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will he re-
JN ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury —
Until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
yof suing, for the supply of all ration® which m«y he Required
aWn for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firll day of May, 1798, both T
>ney days inclusive, at the places and within the diftridts h*re-
I for after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at tvv
Pjefque lfie; at Sandu&y Lake, and on Sandulky a
pri- River ; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank- to]
oi Un; at Pittsburgh ;at Cincinnati; at For;-Hanailton ;
itire at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon; at Grcnville; at
ings Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort at
ings, Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ;at any place bslow Fort
nvey Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
3, in Steuben ; at Fort Mafifac ; at any place from Fort Mafiac
tery. to the south boundary of the United States on the river
:fray Miflifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
rplus If supplies lhall be for any posts or places not
ional mentioned in this notice, all such supplies {hall be fur
on. niihed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
i are posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
days between the United States and the Qontra&or.
mate The rations to be fupplicd are to conftft of the fol
r the lowing articles, viz,
sards One pound two ouaces of bread or flour.
fettle One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces
raw- pork or bacon. qi
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiskey. v t ]
rizes. One quart and half a pint of falt."^
Bank Two quarts of Vinegar, t hundred rations d
le a- Two pounds of Soap, ( r n
One pound of Candles, J
int of The rations are to be furniflied in inch quantities, as that j
'f the there lhall at all times during the said term, be fufficient t]
istalk for the confv.mption of the troops st Michilimackinac, Dc
num troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month* in
t the advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
al ob- at lead three months in advanee, in good and wholefomc
provisions, if the fame shall be required. It is to be un
jf the derftood, that the Contra&or is to be at the exj ence and
;ickets rifle of iffuirg the supplies to the troops at each post, and
it the that all losses sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
re and by means of the troops of the United States, fliall be paid
sal of for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on .
liable, the depofitioas of two or more persons of creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a commiffioncd officer, as- •
ia ; of certaißing the circumstances of the loss, and the am oust
ofton ; of the at tides for which compensation shall be claimed
Wells' OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treafar^.
v
By Authority. «
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
S»:d by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Sccond-Jlrcet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of
the Legislature of Pennsylvania, patTcd during the lait
fefllon, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at (he Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dolbrs.
1 Prize of ao,ooo Dollars - 20,000
1 do. of te.ooo do. • . 10.000
3 do. of 5,000 do. . . 13,000
4 do. of «,000 do. - - 8,000
so do. of 1,000 do. - eo,ooo
39 do. of 500 do. . . 19,50#
80 do. of soo do. - . . 16,000
so® do. of ioo do. - ao.ooa
300 do. of jO do. - . 15,009
1 doj of 500 do to be paid the pofTef- )
for of the firft drawn no. J
5 do. of 3,000 do. to be paid poflelfors >
of the fire last drawn oos { 1 i'®°°
9,400 do- of 15 do. 3 - 141,000
10,054 Prijes 300,000
10,046 Blanks —
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,00*
All Pri«s lliall be paid fifteen days after the drawing it
finidied, upon the demand of a podeflor of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are difpofei
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kcrjhncr, William Witman,
Joseph Hiefler, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
Jamet May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Craeji,
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the
above office, where the earliaft information of the draw
ing of the Washington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are received, and oheck baoks for examination and regif
teringare kept.
Oflober 7. aawtf
Paterion Lottery.
FOR railing fix thousand fix hundred and fixty-farea •
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen par
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a price, viz
I Prize of .5000 dollars is dollars 500 a
I 1000 1000
l soo 500
5 iOO lOCO
ao ' iOS aooo
99 SO 4950
100 1-S 5000
~ aooo 10 to,ooo
5 Last drawn numbers of rooo dollars each, 5000
, a33a Prizea. 44.450
j 4018 Blanks.
t 6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,459
t By order of the Directors of the Soeiety for eftablilh
. mg UfefulManufadhires, the fnperintendauts of the Pat
t erl'on Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Saheme to the public, and have dire&ed thim
; to refund the money to those persons who have purchased
t in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for ticket*
s ft this Lottery.
1 rhe lottery has actually commenced drawing, and "will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
1 may be seen at thf office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
r south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may bt procured.
i Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
t J. N- GUMMING, --i- V'
s JACOB R. HARDENBERG, > Mmagm.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Prize of 5000 ... 5000
1 1000 - 1000
1 500 - J OO
5 aoo • • Igo#
r > ao ico - - - aoo9
: ® 90 J® 45
165 a 5 • - - ■ *"S
] The five last drawn tickets, 1000 e.ch, jooa j
, e Being all the valuable prizes, belides a full propor
tion of the io dollars.
,e As the Lottery is considerably more than one third
n drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is gre&t
iy ly increased, and it is worth the notice of those
who hold tickets in the old scheme, that they can ex
change their tickets for thole in the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance eonfidermg the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be oftener, and' the Lottery soon fisifhad.
November it. mws «
7
£ Walliington Canal Lottery,
Of N°_L
lh TXTHEREAS the state of Maryland has authorifsd
«- W the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
at two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
ty a Canal through the City of Walbtngton, from th Po;
k- tomac to the Eastern Branch Hari/our.
1 ; The following is .he SCHEME of No. I.
at Viz .1 Prize of ao,ooo dollars, 20,000
at I ditto 10,000 10,000
>rt 7 last drawn 7
;rt Tickets, each 1
ac 6 ditto 1,000 6,000
er 10 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 a,OOO
ot 55 ditto so a,750
ir " 5750 ditto la 69,008
he To be raised for the Cwal, «6,ajo
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars. - 175,000
The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
1 quired by the aforefaid aft for the punctual payment of
* the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
,n» delay, as soon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes us are not demanded in fix months after tha
lat drawing is finifhed, (ball be confidercd as relinquifaed for
i nt the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
3 f" (Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
"" DANIEL CARROLL, »/D
---oi LEWIS DEBLOIS,
lDie GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M. DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
" or JAMES BARRY.
>'aia City of Waftupgion, Feb. 11. $
r
ofl ' ' ' -- —
:ha-
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
mat XT J
—No. 119 —
C H P S N U T-S T R F. E'T.
(. [Pricc Fight Dollars per Anmim.]
V