of the UlUtetl Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NeMßJtx 1345.] FRIDAT EVENING, DECEMBER 30, 1796. \Jolvme X.
A CARD.
If Mtnfitur GH. Souls, _ '
Who left Bordeaux the loth June lift, and arrived f
st Boston tbout the middle of Aisgnft, in the schooner a
Jane, it ia Philadelphia, he it rrquefted to call on
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Chefnut-ftreet, who
will give him fomc information cf importance.
December 14, 1796. §
1 J ■ ■ ■ ,1 .
Clocks and Watches.
LESLIE and PRICE, .
Nt. 79, Market street, PaiLADtLPHiji,
HAVE IMPOR TED, by the late arrivals from
London, 1 large afiottment of WARRA \ T E D
WAt CHE S, ccnfifting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with seconds, of superior
workmanlhip and tlejranct; also capp'd and jewel'd t
and plain Gold Watehei ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd, 1
seconds, day of the mouth, and filain Silver Watches; i
•ight day k chamber Clocks; elegant French Clock*
srith marble frame* ; eight day and thirty hour, brass a
works, &c. *
Decern bet ti, 1796. dim '
Imported from London £9° Liverpool,
EARTHtr; WARE, in crates and hogsheads, well
•flbrted
Wine Bottles in hampers 1 ,
?rind«w Glass of all li7e» t
wo cases of stationary
One chest of yellow Jefbits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A fmafl eonfignment of Rose Blankets, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &c.
Paints of various colors.
JUfket fait in hoglheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, rery old, in pipes, hogfhoads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quaUty
Anchors of different sizes
A few trunks of ladies French (hoes assorted
Silk nankeen,&c. ... ,
Likewise an assortment of Dutch goods, confining ot
Ofnaber<*s, ticklenbergs,.bed-ticks ft: ipa s, checks.
linen, plstillas, ravens duck;, 'Vitannas, &c.
And for sale by the package only b V
Thomas £5* John Kct.and.
Walnut-itrert Whirl.
V.r. tj. con '
F O R S A L E,
The fafi-f a'lling Jc Montr OKI -V;
Seventy toni burtitea i fitteer. mqnti>s
_ nM : her frrjne is ot -the bell 0 f white
J?k" the ia 'lithfnl built veflel, handsomely finilheo off
and well found in every particular; is M;-iv to receive a
targo on board, and can be put to sea without any x
pencf on her hull, fails or r.gg.ng: fcellawsixhu dred
barrels; has a iandfomc cabin and steerage, and a halt
deck which will flow from feventy-five to eighy barrels <
lias been newly caulked, graved and painted, for terms
apply to BENJAMIN RHODE!.,
At No. 170, corner of Market a&d Filth Arrets,
Or to the Captain an board laid khooner at ivteffrs.
Willis and Vardflcy's wharf, adjoining Chefnut-ftreet
wharf; where there is for sale
Excellent pickled Salmon in barrels,
the best of American Mess Beef, and l'ome very excellent
BaSon manufafitured Chocolate.
Dccembw 26 »
I
-»For Sligo and Killibegs,
The American Ship ISancy,
Cuthbert Kiggs, master.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or passage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted
3 Bales Irilh Flannels, and i.boxw Linens
»5 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Rnffia Matts.
Also,
- A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 179 6 > mwftf
FOR SALE,
THE SHIP MARY,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONX, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, Ihe will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Oilober 31.
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Master,
"MlffifflL Burthen 105 47"9S tons bui!t in
Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live oik
and red cedar, and was Iheathed IJ months ago, fte
has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be sent to sea
at a vtry trifling expeiice.
fbr terms apply to
Fhilip Ntckhn & Co.
Who have for sale on beard said vejel,
I 'ay calks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and tz bundles of writing slates.
1 box ink stands and note presses.
1, bales of Tail canvass.
And on hand,
ISCU* teas.
Nankeen* of ihe qaifity.
10 tubs Quickfilvcr.
, chests BandanßO handkerchiefs.
A few chests Manchester goodswell assorted in Cor-
thickset., Ginghams, Muflmets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
ISo crates Qneens ware well allorWtl.
10 tons (heet lead.
Nails assorted, flat and sharp points.
London Particular, , Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, r , an( } hoglheads.
New-York Market, J .
pipes and 10 hogsheads TtnenSe wine.
% fierces V.ake Root.
ijo log? k tth&ftf
Nov f»
NOTICE. A
Those Gen lcmen who hold any of the undermen
tioned Notes or Draughts (whether due or netJ are
requested to meet at the City-favern on Wednesday
n> XT, at h a'clock in the eveaing ; at which time an
arrangement will be j;ropofed which it is expeAed will t
be to th« holders.
Edward Fox's in favor of James Greenleaf.
James Grecn'eif's notes in f avor of Edward Fox.
J.mes Greenieaf's draughts «n Edward Fox.
Abraham Dull is's note to Edward Fox.
Edward Fox's n»te to Abraham Dubois.
.James Giveuleaf'o draughts on Abraham Dubois.
At the requejl of a rnajer part of the Gentlemen
inUrelled. -
EDWARD FOX. C
December 19. '^ tw
A P R I N T. F
MR. SAVAGE begs leave te inform the fiibfcrihers f
to the Portrait of David Rittenho»se, l. u. d. w. r. s.
PrefiJ.ea': of tke m&ricaa PhLofophical Society, that it gj
is ready # for delivery, g
Subfcrihers may have their print 9 put into elegant gilt -j.
and borniflicd frames, fimflied every way in a much
better manner than thole things are generally douc, at
nine dollars each, print included. p
Tbird door weft, of Tenth-street, in Chefnut-ftreet. rj.
December aj. 3
WANTED,
A MECHANIC, to erea Spinning and Wcsving
Machines by water, such as are uled at my manufae
tory —Apply to JAMES DAVENPC-3RI,
No. 401, North Fro»t-ftr«et.
N. B. None need apply but a eoMplete mechanic,
and a man of liability.
Gliie Mill, Detember 29, 1796 J
SALT PETR £.
1 A large quantity of Double-Refined Sak P«tr< for
sale »t No. 15, South Third-street.
N..vc.uber 5.
North-American Land Company.
' NOTICE is hereby given to the StockM4tr* that
. an elet'lir.n wili beheld at thecompaay's office, on Sa
turdav the ?l f t December, agreeably to the articles of
affoeiaiien, for a board ot managers, to eonfitt of five
and a Secretary.
< ?3*-
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
= SOUTTI TIiIR.D-STR.E6T,
F Has reef W per the Diana, from London,
I CliuJed and flriped Spsnilh frwanldown
j Clouded Erromats jynl Moleikins
f Striped do. and do.
Figured Manillas
J Scarlet figured F.rminets
Printed Florinerts
1, Do. and Caffimeres
~ Superfine printed newest pattern*
t Also, per different arrivals,
A large and gcnera,l afifortirvent of Dry 1
> Goods,
lt Suitable to the present and approacHng season.
.Nevemhw j. dtf
r Insurance Company ps North-America.
THF, STOCKHOI HERS in this compa -y a« desired
to take no'iee that the f-eond Turfdiy in jinuarj, (beirg
the 10th day of the month) i< the day fixed by chsrtor for
thceleftion »f twsnty-five Dirctftor. for be enfiiiflg year.
>r ""he flexion will fee held at their and commence
I at'jt o'clock, \. M.
fhefubjeift ,f the bye-laws of the Corporation will be
' fuUmitsed to tlwir ation at this meeting.
EBENF.ZER HAZARD, Sec'ry
t/ec. 11. tthioj
FOR SALE,
At Whiteiides' Tea Ware-House,
A'o. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial f f Hyson Skin.
Hyson, > Fresh Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyson, J C. Bohca
— Dec. 9 -,tawjra.
Insurance Company of the State of
Penniylvania.
THE Stockholders are hereby noiiSed, tha an tlciftion
i for thirteen Directors to fetve for one year, will be held |
t0 at the Company's on Monday the 9th January next,
at II o'clock.—And agreeably to the a& ot incorporation
, a fUitiiwont of the affairs of the company, will then be
e laid before them.
SAMUEL W. FISHER, See'y.
Philadelphia, December 19, 1796. dt 9th Jan.
Davis's Law dock Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREtT.
J n GEORGE DAVIS announce! to his profeflional friends,
k « nd the Gentlemen of the Law, genefally, thrash ih<
Union, that his late importation ol BOOKS i» now arranp
. Ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volume te an entire li
a brary, without any advance upon hi* former exceeding lew
prices, which forfeveral yeats paA have in so distinguished a
manner nc«ommended them'to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the most extefifive collcc
tion cf the latest Englift» and Iri(h Edition* ever importee
into this country, are publilhed, and will be delivered gtati?
on application.
Orders addressed to G. D. in writing from any distance
fhallbe punctually attended to.
A number of TRUNKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Maiket Street Wharf.
ov.B. tu&f3«r
TO BE SOLD,
A PL ANTAION, in the town of Woodbury, conn
tyof Gloucelter, and state of New-Jetfey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a Vuitable propor
or" tion of which is woodland and improved insadow. A
® cc " great part of the arable land is in a high ftste of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the produdion of Red Clovsr
On said plantation there is a genteel tw«-ffory brick hoiife,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
heufe The garden is large, and contains a good collee
e * tioH of the best kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees ;
the orchard eonfifts of aboHt three hundred grafted app e
trees. Any person inclined to parchafe said premiles,ajay
be informed of the terms by applying t»
ANDREW HUNTER,
ftf July r? I
A few hogsheads of choice N. E. Rum,
and a quantity of LAUD, forfait;
Enquire at No. 71, North Water-ftrect.
December 14 d iw
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flswer-Seeds, ®
Roots, isfc. &c.
This d*J landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLD i'HWAIT & MOORE, p;
Corner of Walnut and Second-ftrcets,
ji tnojl capital and rxunfive Afirtmcnt of
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, See, See.
*. Amoog which arc,
Fire kinds Asparagus Thres kinds Cresses
Four Bertjcole Twelve Onion
Twenty-five Beans Thirteem Radifti
Six Beets Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Broceli Fifte«» Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage Si* Savoy
Six Carrot Four Parsnip mm
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon
Five C-lery Twenty-one Lettucc
Tea Cucumber
Com man and emon Thyme
Curled leaf and (prigged Parsley £
Pot Marygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
Leek Kail Shallots £
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timet! y, &c. Src. E
With a curious colle&ion of the most esteemed T
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS, F
Being the moll extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17. dtf.
r ' ~ ~ tl
Just Landing, i>
At South Jhreet -wharf, from n board the ship Sedg- P
Icy, Captain Hodge, from St. Peterjhurg,
The following Goods : t
H-uflia Sail Dtick, fir.l quality. j
Do. Shewing do.
Do. Diaper. J
Da Hiwkaback. '
Do CraDi.
Do. Mou'd Candles, 4, 5 and 6,' to thejlb. of the 0
Fnglifh fise.
00. White Candle Tallow. n
Dn' White Soap in small boxes*
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Raven* Dilck.
lfinglafs, id and and fort.
Horse Hair uncurlci.
Ruflia Bait Iron,
Do. Hoi>p Iron.
Do. Nai\ Rods.
10 Tons Q|kum and Junk. '
St. Peterfl>frg Clean Hemp;
For Sale by \
Philips, Cramond, & Co. J
o&ober ra. -• $
Old London particular Madeira Wine,
Landing froir. Yn board the barque Eagle, Capt. Bates
ami for sale by ROBERf ANDREWS,
1 No. 86, S«\)th Wharvea.
November co.ltf
Cheap French China.
THE fubferibers finding it impossible to fiipply their
(lore with any more China front France, the prices
being too immoderaU in the maimlad\orie», giv* no
tice that they wii! fell at prime cost tl»e regaining
fisck < n hind, coufillmg of
Deflert Sett?,
Tea-Table Sett»
Separate Cup. and Saucera
' Grotipe* a»d Figure*
•Alabailer Vases
Looking Glaflti, i-n gilt framet,
Befidca India J*pan'd Toilet Defies, Chaira, Tables
nad Quadrille Boxe*. PASQUIER & Co.
N». 91, South Second-itreet.
December jt-h. tt«
For Sale,
f By J. WARDER, PARKER & Ct.
An Invoice of Cordage,
i Confiding of different fixes, from 12 inch cables down
i to rope «f a fcches, of different lengths: Imported in
, • the ship Swi&f from Hull, and entitled to drawback,
i « Sept. 17 dtf
* SWAN N'S
Riding School, t<orfe Academy C 3* Infirmary.
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks tot' ofe gentlemen by whom
he has been employed, during his residence in thi> City, and
flatfcrshtmlelf tha. the fuecefs of his efforts, in«tne n urtierous,
1, obttmate and dangerou* diseases in Horses, in which he has
c beeu oonfulted, together with hi* moderate charges, will le
ure their future favors and recftmmeiKiatien.
He now begS it*«ve ro inform them and the public at large
k ihw his !pacious and commodious orcmilob, ere&ed for the
a purpose& above d&fcr.bed are open for the reception of pupils
of eitnor lex, who with to beinlhu&ed in the Art ui Riding,
and the light method of governing their horses, so as to ride
e chesß with ease, eiegance, and laiety—theij horses will be
i« catcfully and expeditiously broke, for every purpoft, and
made obedient to the will oi the riders ; the natuial powers
;e which are Ibut up iu thetn, will be untoldod by art, calling
lorth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all thole beafitict of a&ion which providence has fv bounti
rulh beftowod on tnetn.
Alfo,_at his liofpiral, every difor :er to which the horse is
lidb)? will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by l»ngand repealed experience.
I he utility of the above inttkution has never been qncftion
ed, t|jat u h<4s long been waoted in this city, every gentleman's
\- Rud willmaMifeft, and T. Sw.-vwn as the nift <ftf#Hiher of
1 the veterenary art, folieits and upon the support of that
r- public (which he is ever envious in (eiving) to enable hiua to
\ bring it to perfection. The of a fpb.cripUon for that
a_ h<*« beeu hiuted by feve.a 1 gentleman, who wish to
r promote the institution —the amount of each fubferip ion to
e be returned by services in jkiy of the departments he profeffes,
,r a g rec able to the rate of charges fleted in his hand bill. Such
e lublci iption is now open, and the figriatures of many refpeft
c able emen alieady obtained. He therefore iojorms his
friends and fu'.h Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
' the honor of being known, that he shall io a few days take
e " tbelibertyof waiting uponthem'and folic king their support
l 7 *nd piot ft ion.
N Hoi fes are properly prepared for those Ladies and
Gentlemen who wish 10 be inflrnded*
Nov. y tth&fs
"Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET)
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Well Selecled /IsSortmsNT »f
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and- retail, on the very
lowed terms ;
Amortgjl •which are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chin rati and Cottons, n«w
pattertM
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Mufiios
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuat of the fir ft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of tie firfl quality, alTorted
Irtfh Linens, Very fin&, and Table Linens
Marfuilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets afforted—&c. &c.
O&obtr 16. 4
" For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel. .
Smoaked Herring in barrels and keg»
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or {ingle one
Dry Cedfifh, from one to 6tty kentals
Fine and c-ciarfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, ill tile ftonc
and ground, for manure and ftucco-wstk
December i. <
For Sale*
A capital (land for bufinels —1 hat well known tavern,
: the Kwe aad Lambs, North Front Street, Ko. J33, in the
Northeru Libcrtiasj a britk house contacting nine £r®-
' place*, and. ten rooms well finifbed i good ftabks and
chair-house, with a frame-houfe on Water flreet ; the
building (lands on four lots, leventeeK' feet front each, ma
king a front on £ront-flreet, thirty' four feet, and neairly t
the fame on Water-flifeet, and is one hundred and sorts
teat deep from flreet o (lre«t< fubjfA tOj£B. 10s. each
lot per annum, ground rent this property is near the hay
fealss, and public docks, easy communication with the
Delaware waters and advantageously situated for business
of various kinds
The above prcmH/s are now rented until December
next at £-175 P« ifinum. —Enquire of tec Printer.
Dec. ia. §iwiaw6w.
CAUTION.
WHEREAS very large and heavy debts are j'iftl/
due and owing from mefTrs. Blair M'Clenachan awl
Patrick Moore, of the city of Philadelphia merchants,
trading under the firm of Blair M'Clenachan and P,.
Moore, and from Blair M'Clenachan in his separate
capacity i to which, by the laws of the land, all the
joint as well as separate property of the said Gentle
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereas
it it clcarly and fatisfa«Slorily afccrtained, that mr.
Blmr M'Clenachan, of the laid firm, has conveyed
away to Mir. John H. Hujlon, his foil-in law, to hit
daughter, mil's M'Clenachan, and to his son, George
M'Clenachan, several large and valuable real (estates,
as well as eoitfiderable personal property, in the city
and county of Philadelphia, in ths county of Lancas
ter, in the county of New-Castle on Delaware, and
eifewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to.de"
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.—
This is, therefore, to forewarn all persons wliomfo»
ever, againlt the purebafe from the said grantees, or
either of them, of any portion of the said real or per
foi.al proper y, as the most vigorous measures wfU
without delay be taken te render the fame liable to
the jufiL demands of the Creditors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thotnaj Fitzjlmons, "J
Philtf Nicklin, I
Isaac /barton, r ComtnitteeJ
William M'Murtrie, I
5 Samuel ff- Fi/her,
Philadelphia, December 17th, 17961 40th.}
' TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the public printj,
warning all persons purcbaGng from the
grantees ef Blair M'Cletoachan, any portion of the
H large, teal and personal estates he conveyid away to
n his fon-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation hod upon thefubjeft by a general and
_ numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P Moore as of Blair M'Clena
ehan individual!j. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trull confided in the fubferibers by
those creditors i a ftcp which it would have been a
„ breach of duty and honor in them to have omitted,
d The very ftatomeat of the fait therefore mull dif
■> pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
!* or vindictive." It originated in a desire to secure
the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
[e ment of his just debts. It was fanftiened by the
" advice ot council as a measure necejfary to the fafety
of the creditors. If the advernlcment has been
le injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
,e to his ovrn unjufliliable corduft, not to the iub
d fciibers who have merely publidied the truth in
g terms as mild as the fact would admit, and who
al mean to investigate in a high court of justice .the
validity of those purcbafes of which Mr. M'Cle
js naehan so confidently fpcaks.
d The fubferibers therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in genetalto repeat their
1 ," eaution against ptirchafing df those grantee* or
,* either of them, and to extend the terms of it t» h
at purchase from any other perfong (if such there be)
0 to whom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
at.
_ tfonveyances..
io ( Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
«, P. NICKLIN,
h ISAAC WHAHTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIEjr
SAMUEL W.FISHER.
« Philad. Det. 11, 1796.
irt __
)( j ItT Those printers who have been ■ equ-flcd so
publish the firfl Caution, ire dt£r«d to pub iih tbitNEW Theatr'B.
Oa F RID AYEV ENI NG, December 30,
Will be presented,
A CO ME DT, called
The Wheel of Fortune.
Written by Richard Cumberland, Esq. author of the
Jew, Weft-Isdian, &c. and performing at the
Theatre Drury Lane, London, with tfhbounded
applauffe.
Sir David Daw, Mr. Francis
Terapeft, Mr. Harivood
Penruddock, Mr. Cooptr
Wotjilrille, Mr. Warren
Sydenham, Mr. K'igneJl
Henry Weadville, Mr. Mcreton
Wearle, Mr. Blifett
Weadville'* Servant, Mr. Mitchell
Officer, Mr. H'arrell
Jenkins, Mr. Darley, jun.
Jainei>, Mr. Warrell, jna.
Richard, Mr. \t organ
Harry, ' _ Mr. M'jio/iald
Thomas, Mister Wurrcll
Mr*. Wood villa, Mri. Morris
Emily Tempest, Mrs. Merry
Dame Dunckley, Mrs. Dci&or
Maid, Mis* Milbourno
After which will be performed by the French Com
pany, a celebrated OPERA, in one a<Jl, called
La Melomanie.
r Th»re will be no performance an Saturday next
on account of the preparation* for forac new piece* for
the ensuing week.
0- On Monday the Tragedy of RICHARD 111.
• new Ballet composed by Mr. Byrne, and the favor
ite farce of ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
£jT Bot, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit one Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.
Ticketi to be h-id at H. ic P. Rice's 4ook-ftore,
No. jo High-flreet, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
Place* for the Boxes to be taken at the OXce in th«
front of the theatre, from io till j o'clock, and from
till 4 on the days of performance.
The Doors of the Theatre will opqe at'j, and the
Curtain rife preciSfly at 6 o'cloek.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requeued to fend their
servant* to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as feenss the company are seated, to
withdraw, as they caiinui on any account be permit
ted to remain.
riFAT RESPUBLICAI
College-Hal].
Readings and Recitationi,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. FENNELL
Refpe&fully inform* the Public, that
On SATURDAY EVENING, December 51, at j
•'dock, (by particular desire, >and for the latt time)
will be repeated
EIFMNATOir AogRtSS.
After which will be recited an Allegorical Peera, in
three parts, called
The C A V E or NAT U'R E ;
Or, A PnAuec of the Virtues, Vices, and Paffiois,
«f the Human Mind.
The next Reading will be 011 'fuefday tfcV 3d of
January, 1797.—The course will be continued regu
larly every Tuesday and Thursday evening.
No repetition (if any (hould hereafter take place)
will be given on the evening of eithrr of the above
day*. Sabfcribers' tiukets (not transferable) admit
to all repetitions.
Subfcnption* are received by Mr.Zarhariah Poulfor,
jun. at the Library, where the Lames and Gentlemen
who may be inclined to honor the undertaking with
their patronage, are refpeafully requested to fend
their names and receive their tickets.
Oecafioral admifhen tickets to be/.ad of Mr. Prmlfun,
Jnn. at the Library ; at mr. M'Slwee's looking-gjnfs-rtere,
No. 70, South Feurth-ftreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Book
fellcr, Market-street.
To the Public.
it . _
IT has been the wifb of almaft every class of citi
zens in America, that a Gazette might be published in '
the Metropolis, once a Kveek which would exclude ad
■vertifements altogether. A large sheet , on this plan
would contain all the intelligence, foreign and domes
tic j—it would come to tfte fUbferiber* at a frnall ex
pence, compared with that of fee Daily paper*,• a
great proportion cf which is neceiTariiy filled with ad.'
vertifemente ; —it would beeafily preserved and bound
in a volume at the end of each year, or be convenient
ly traiifmitted to correspondents in any part of the
world.
Tke firll number of a paper on this plan to be entit
led
THE UNIVERSAL GAZP.ITE,
will be publi/hed in the city of Philadelphia on Thurs
day the sth day of January, 1797. It will be printed
with ail elegant type, on paper equal in sue and
quality to that on which the Philadelphia Gazette it
printed ; and it will contain every article of foreign
and domestic news, including the arrival of veflels—
price ot stock Sec. snd a correal aceounr of the pro
ccodwg* of Congress, with an authentic copy of the
laws ot the United States, from the beginiiig of the
prefeat-feDion of the Federal Legislature.
Ihe price of the Universal Gazette, exclusive of
postage, will be fnur dollars per annum, to be paid in
advance, ill Philadelphia, yearly ; unless inftru&ions
ftiall be given by the fubferibers to their correfpend
ent* in the city, who will engage to ygy the fubfcrip
tian money as it*bccoiue« due
Ort'ert for this paper, post are to be addrcfled
.to Andrew Brown, at the office of the Philadelphia
{Jaaette, No. ay, Chefnut-ftreet, who will be aufwer
able for all money advanced on account of the Univer
sal Gazette. >
* A Daily Paper, by poll, sent any di/lance •within
one hundred miles, cofis the fubferibers twelve dollars,
and twelve cents, per annum ; any di/lance beyond
one hundred miles, it cofls dollars and Jixty
eigbt ecnts, per annum, inc/udi.p'jlage.
The bniver/al Gatsetle, by excluding aclvertifementj
swill contain all the intelligence of the week, and cojl the
fubferibers by pofk, any Within one hundred
miles, only four dollars e-iU fifty-two cents, per an
num ; any dij.ance beyond one hundred miles, it quill
eofl only four dollars and fever, ty-eigkt cents per Annum, .
including r oft age.
Dec. ty. » Jt
CONGRESS OF the UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Monday, December 26.
[contin»E»t]
Mr. Nicholas fa id lie had not been convinced "by
the observation* of gentlemen wba had fpuken is
. favout of this report.; thit all the mifchiefs would
[ not follow thil measure which he before predicted
He enquired into the purpose of establishing a na
tional university. The President had said, and the
commiffieners after him, it was to efUblifk an uni
formity of principle* and nanners throughout the
union. This, he believed, could not be effected by
any iiillitation. If, said he, yeu incorporate men
to build an university, aie you not pledging your
felvn that you will makeup any deficiency ? And
as the building mult be commensurate with the ob
ject, they would hare an enormous empty house
continually calling upon them for contribution* to
its support. Whatever moderation had been obferv.
Ed in framing this report, Mr. N. said, it was like
many others which came before them—it was so
covered, as not to (hew half the mifchiefs which
woald attend it. If a plan of education was want
ed for tha' didri&, let members from that part «f
the country fay so, and he would be ready to af
ford them every ncceflary a ft,lance s but he would
not think of going into the scheme of a national
university.
Thediftriftof country from whence he came,
mi(,'ht Rand in great need of femioarie* of learning
as had been hinted by the gentleman from Mary,
'and (Mr. Craik) but their ignorance nauft conti
nue, u'ltil they were sensible of their want of ia-
Rm&ion. He believed there was no federal quality
in knowledge, and no federal aid was neeeffary to
the Ipread of it. Every diftrift of countiy was
■ competent to provide for the education of its own
citizens ; and be should not give his countenance
to the national plan proposed, beeaufe the eipence
would be enormous, and beeaufe he did not think
it would be attended with any good effect, but
with tnu.-k evil.
Mr. R. Sprigg, jun. eonfidered the report before
them as of a vrry harmlef* nature. The President,
he said, bad appropriated land upon which to erect
the niiiverlity in queftioa. They were not called
upon to fanftion that appropriation. His power
to give it was foil and ample. The thing was done,
and he had promised a future donation. The ap
prehenGons of the gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
Nicholas) fcemed to arise from his conceiving they
were about to fanftion a national university fueh as
had been recommended by the PreHdent; if this
were the cafe, although the reprefeil'ative of that
didrift, he should not give his vote in fopport of
the measure. On the contrary, he iaid, tbey were
called upon merely to authorise proper perfous to
receive donations for an university. .What fort of
indention this should be, would he for the future
consideration of Congref*. Mr. S. said, he (hoald
always be ready to give his fuppott to every mea
sure which had a tendency to spread knowledge
throughout the United States, as he believed the
progress of knowledge <nd liberty Kould accompa
ny each other. The gentleman from Virginia
feeined to think this inftitation would only benefit
a small circle. He did not think the iate of Ma
ryland would be much benefitted by it, as they had
already two good universities, b»t he thought it
doing no more than) justice to the owners of pro
perty in the federal city, that this institution diould
be encouraged. What was aflted ot them, would
not commit them at all for any thing forfher; and
it would be a mean of taming the attention *4 the
people to the support of an inftitutiou of this kind.
For these reasons, he hoped the hoafe would agree
to the rvport.
Mr, Livingfton said, he was in favour of tke re
port of the committee, until, by a recurrent* to
the aft for eftablifliing the permanent feat of gov
ernment, he was convinced there was something
more in th» measure than met the eye. The inten
tion seemed a good one, but what hindered the
(late in which this diftrift lay, from granting tke
incorporation desired i There needed to have been
no ditficulty in this. But something farther was
intended—public patronage was wanted to the in.
dilution. They were delired, at a minute's warn
ing, to fay they would establish a national universi
ty- It was true, they had been called by a respec
table authority to do this ; but it was a matter of
moment, and required consideration. How far
the commissioners were aathorifed to give land for
this purpose, he conld not fay. He thought the
words " public use,'' would not authorise them to
do so: for if they gave land upon which to erect
an university, they might K ive it for any other
building which was to be enjoyed by a number of
people ; for school* and uniferfities, he said, were
not public, put piivste concerns. The effect of
the resolution would be, as had been justly said, an
entering wedge ; and hereafter they should be toldt
they must go on, and all the fine things which had
now been urged, would then be brought forward,
with ten fold force, in favour ®f a national univer.
Gty. If this kufiuefs was perfectly hairalefs, as it
had been represented, he should willingly have sup
ported it : but, as he conceived it to be far other
wifr, be conld not vote for it.
Mr. Madifsn was far from thinking that this
was a quedion which went to pledge Congress
support a national university. He did not think
the agreeing to the present proposition would pledge
Congress to pay a Angle farthing. He eonfidered
th« qneftion merely to be whether Congress would
encourage an eftablifliment which was to be sup
ported independent of them. The Prefideat had
thought proper to give to this inttiiution the fifty
(hares in the Potomac navigation, which had been
prefer,ted to him as an acknowledgment of his f«r
vices during the war, but which he declined ac
cepting for his own use. All that the commilW
ers prayed for was to have this property secured,
with any other which might be given for the fame
purpose, by grar ting due poweis for the pisrpofe.
This was the simple view which he had of the fob
jeft. The gentleman ftom New York (Mr. Li
virgfton) firmed to think there was no necefiity
for the interference of the United States in this
bufinefj. Mr. M. laid Ccogufs had th ' fote jurif-'
uiflion over this diftrift of country. It w.is indeeJ
necefTary that the laws of Maryland (hrjuld operate
over it for the prefem, but they do so, said lie, by
authority of Congreic, and Coß«refs only can <aake
j a law on the present fubjeft. With this idea, the
commiflioiters had applied to them. The report
before them, Mr. M. said, did not call the univer
sity a national aniverlity ; it fp£aks of it as an uni
verftry in the diftridi of Columbia. He thaugbt
there was a material difference between calling it
an univerlity and a national aniverfity. Congress,
he said, might form an institution there, which
could not be confidercd an inllitution of the Unit
ed States, which Heverthcicfs, have all the
good of a national inHitunun—and it was in this
qualified light in which he viewed it.
Mr. R. Sprigs, jun. said it had_becn enquired
why the Legiflaturc »f Maryland couli not have
■ granted the what they now pray for
He answered they coald make no law for that oif
tridt which fttnuld extend pad the time at whivh
the feat of government was to be removed there.
H: mentioned some inflancci which had taken
place whilll he was a member of that legiflaturc.
This, he said, accounted for the application of the
; commiflioners ta Congress.
On motion, the committee rose, and had leave
to fit again.
Mr. Ckriii* exprefied mueh diflatisfafiion with
the fcttlciaent which had been made at the war of
fice in relation te the accounts of captain Robert
Harris, wha had only been credited with f.x'een
dollars for eighteen mouths fervise, owing to his
not having called at the precise time for payment
at which he oaght to have eallci. He therefare
moved a resolution calling upon the war department
far a statement as the number of officers aad the
amount of tbeir pay who flood ex;tsly in e,iptain
Harris's fituatian, in order to fliew no great in
convenience waald arise from a re fettlcmerit. Af
ter a number as ablvrvations on the fubjeft, the
motion was negatived.
Mr. Nicholas obtained leave of abfrnee for Mr.
Hefcth, for 20 days.
Mr. Parker laid a resolution to the following ef
fect upon the table':
" Aefolved, that the President of the United
States be requested ta cause to be laid before the
house, what measures have been taken for carrying
into effect the treaty between the Uaited States
and the Dey and Regency of Algiers, and also
whether aay aad what further legislative aid may
be for thai purpafe."
Mr. Gregg prefeated the petition of William
Alexander, prayißg compesfatian for ferviccs as
aa affiltant furveyar; which was referred to the
committee of claims Adjourned.
Tuesday, December 17.
Tke bill from tbe Senate, granting an addition
al allowance ta the clerks ia the office of the fecre
Wry of the senate, was read the feccind time, and
referred to tbe committee on the fubjeA of com
pensations.
Mr, S>vaawiek piefented tke petition of Jane
Adams, praying for relief 011 account of a certifi
eate for 500 dollars, which (he had received for a
price in the lottery, and loft.
Mi. Ljvingftoa presented the petition ps William
Conllable and others, holders of what tva« termed
New Eirt'Con Bills, praying far relief.
Mr. Midifoa presented the petition as John Por- :
{ er, a {tidier ia tbe late war for compeafatioa. |
The *hov« petitionj were feveralljr referred to
the conauttee of el/fms.
Mp Kitchell presented the memorial of John
CI eve Symmes, on the fubjeft of kit contrast with
the United States, for certain landa, and prayiag
that his purthafe might be eompleaied. Referred
ta the cammittee of the whole, t» whom was de
ferred the report of the attorney-general on this
fubjefl. ' *
Mr. D. Foster, from the committee of claims
made report* on the petitions of Gilbert Deach,
Thomas Miller, Thomas Curtis, Joseph Shalk,
James M'Calmant and Ricnara Keys Theie re
ports were all against the petitioners, were several
ly twice read, aad concurred in by the house.
| Mr. Swanwick, from the committee of com
merce and manufa&ares, made reports on the pe
titions of Charles White, Stewart and Barr, Da
vid Scudder, Elcazer Scudder, Samuel Berrien k
others, Aaroa Sheffield, Legara, Pearc e and Prio
lo, wliich were fevera!ly v againft the petitioners.
They were twice read, and (except the two lalt,
the derision on which was poftponcd to Tuesday
next) agreed to by the house.
Mr. Hartley presented the petition of Robert
Horner, for compensation for ferviccs during the
wa.', which was referred to the committee of claims.
The order »f the day was eallcd for on the re
port of the committee to whore was referred the
memorial of the commiflioners of the Federal city,
and that part of the President's fpecch, which re
ferred ta the cftablifhtnent of a national Hniverlity.
The house accordingly resolved itfe'.f into a com
mittee of the whole ou that fubjeft, Mr. Coit in
the chair, when, the resolution, reported by the
felcift committee, having been read, no gentleman
rifiug on the subjeCt, the chairman enquired if Jie
committee were ready- for the qucllion, "and, 011
being answered in the affirmative, the queilion was
put and negatived by a great majority.
The committee then rose, and thf house took
up thefubje&, whea
Mr. Murray exprcfTed his surprise at the decifi
an which had just taken place. He thought the
question mud have been mistaken, or it had not
been fufficiemly di feu fled. He regretted deeply
that a fubjeft so intereftirig should have had so lit
tle confederation. The report of the committee, he
said, was moderate and just, and he coufefTed he
bad heard nothing from gentlemen, who were op
posed to it, that was not either founded ia millskes,
or in an overheated imagination of evils, with
which the repart was unconnected. One would
have supposed, said he, to have heard the argu
ments used oh the eccafion, that the report had
propafed ta lay the foundation of a national uni
versity, which should have called far rofeurces from
the whole unian. On looking iuta the report, he
faund na such thing ; in referring to the memorial
of the commtifioncrs, aethivg like it was to be dif
coveted ; the i-eqieft was (imply *St,t Congrcft
would do, what Congress alone ceulii do, viz. au
ihoi ife proper persons l« receive f*ch rfo«ition< a*
liber?) and well difpttfed perfo'-s might be inrltucd
to give towards carrying into effefl the iaftitatiort
of an tsmverlity. Yet the rote of the commi'tee
of the whole jaft taken, weat te crush thi* perfect
ly harmless, but desirable measure—• measure
which went to the planting a little feed of learn
ing is that diftrift. It aflced neither for.protedi
en nor bounty from the United States ; it requited
nothing mote than the li«ip!ea&of incorporati»n.
Hi»colleague (Mr. Sprigg) he said, had ihcwn that
the legislature of Maryland could not grant the in
corporating power wanted, iince they did not ex
tend their power beyoud the period of lßoe, at
which tiaae iht general gjveru»eul waj k) be si..cd
withia that diftrift.
If C»»grefs refufe to comply with the request of the
petitioners, laid Mr. M.tkey will smother In the Snd
the efforts of individual!, incline 1 1te give donations for
the encouragement of learning in this new c.jty. Si»
ungenerous a resolution ke could not have believed
pafful a body, who had the ckaraAer of
liberal and enlightened—such a vote would appear
particularly humiliating in the eyes of foreign nations.
Where, he alked, would be the evil of agreeing t»
the report ! We could fee none. The Pi cfiaeut had
generously fignified hit intention of giving about the
valueof 5,0001. sterling, and the write <tnu liberal in
all parts of the Union would probably follow hia ex
ample. A seminary 01 learning would be let about,
proportioned to the resources for its support. ln
ftead of allowing thi» to be the cafe, every puffible
abuse had been imagiaed to take plate -y was t<k
be extravagantly lquandered, a large vu
te he eredled, and Corigrefs wa» to be called upon t»
complete tke defifn. Why, ke said, fuppei'e ail this
abuse ? Wai it' not more probable, that enlightened
men, desirous of promoting fwch an inititutiou would
a<fti a more prudent and rational part, -particularly
when~thc law held out to them no idea of support f
Upon the whole, he thought no reasonable ohjeAion
could be made to the report j he keped a final dei if.
ion therefore would be delayed; for he could not be*
litvt, when gentlemen took time to confidcr the fuis
| je<!t, they could aA so unenlightened and illiberal a
j part as to rejid a request so harmless and reasonable.
Mr. Madil«H propol'ed to strike out the word pecu
niary trom the report, that the expression might ex
tend to all lortl i>f donations.
The Speaker said it Was net in order to amend the
report in that ft&ge of the hufinefs. '!'» amead it, tke
I report must be recommitted.
fTo-Jje continued.J
Wadncfiiiy, December 2S.
The bill fur the relief of John Sears, was read
the third time and paficd.
Mr. Hindman presented t.vo petition*, one tfom
1 Alexander Furitiva), poftmaftc of Baltimore pray
ing for additional ccmpenfition to his prcfent al
lowance ; and another trom James Curue, and o
tbers, for recompencc for fe; vices the war*.
The former was referred tathe committee ot eom
petclation, and the latfer to the committee of claims.
Mr. Coit, prefe*l k -d the meinoiial of Hannah
Welch, praying for payment ol iyicarages due to
Uer late hafbatid for fervicei as captain of a vcffel
during the war, in which he wai killed figging oa
fV'irc at Fenabfccrt, ar.J alfa for commutation due
to her brother, who had aifo ierved in the war—.
Refcired to the commit'ee of claim*.
_Mr. Coodiich presented a pet it inn from the cem
miQioner »f Loans for Conne&icutt, praying for
an inereafeef salary. Referred to the committcc
of cempeafatian.
Mr. D. Foster moved that the petition of Mo.
f«» White, which had latUcfiiun been u-ported u
pon by the committee of claims, hut which report
had not been decided upon by the house, (hmiid
recommitted to the committee of claim#, 011
count of some r.ew facts which v.ere pioduced.
Agreed.
Mr. W. Smith then called up bis resolution re.
littivc to affording relief to the fuffererg at t!avann»h
which oceafioned confideiablc debate, and was at
length negatived 55 to 24.
Notice.
THE Advertiser is a pcrfor. regularly bred, and ha»
earned on in an extensive manner for these 30 tear,
past.the various branches »f Goldsmiths' a«d Jew
ellery, plated and hard ware Cutlery, and Irfimoonre
ry l.ofinrfs, and has general of the Dry
Good and many otherbulineffes. He has a particijar
tafle for budding, las built txtcafively {». hi ßl ftlf,
kas conduced buildings for others, and isaf ooi*i« a
that Ins services to any gentleman that m.ght be in
went of a person to conduct any 6f the aforefaid baft
nefles, would not only be ufei'ui'but an acquisition M
he will enirage on liberal terms, either as c salesman
or to feii. as an ageut, as a.partner or
take the care of a mauufa&ory, or fiiperimend build
ing, Sec, He is a marked man, ansi having no family
but his wife who ould a<il as a saleswoman or houle
kceper. No objedlion to any par t of til* Southern
ltates, or to take a voyage to Europe as a fuuercareo
A line direded to J. C. to the care of the printer,
will be piindtually attended to.
N. B. He is well acquainted with most ef the E nr .
li!h, Irilh, and Scotch mauufadloi'ies, as ke carried on
business for tea years in London, but on account of
unavoidable misfortunes in his country, ke is now fOP
ced to leek for a living for himfelfand wife in thit
way, and he Hatters himlelf that he will x i ve entire
iausfa<flion to his employer. And as he is well known
m this.vity, and to the molt refpeaable tharaaersou
the continent, doubts nor but his chaj-atfer, moralitr
and indefatigable industry, will bear tbe ltricteft ea
quiry j
Dcc • ' taw tf
C. XV. PEAL E
To the Citizens -of Philadelphia.
Willing-to contribute my mits to aflift the f u ff«- e „ , t
Savannah, I propoie to appropriate the nro<]u4* 01 the
Museum, on Wednesday, the 4 tl> ef Jannar'y rrt- f or t h^ t
express purpose. The conftan: call for my daily exerti
ons, t# prapare the numerous fu'hjeAs for the museum
has, aud will for along timo tsccmr, prevent me from
giving my personal attendance on the visitors «f this re.
pofitory : But o» this particular occaflon. it i«my inten
tion to he present the w hole day 5 and it will girt me much
pleasure to fee the rooms croudad from the early morn
until ten o clock at night.
N. B. C. W. Peali during the lad nine moaths, has
made uncommon exertions to cnrich and improve the Mu
seum, and although a it not yet .what it oughi te b« with,
iheaid ot the C.:y of Philadclpliia, the proprietor at
fures the public that it is daily pregrcfljug i n ufefulnefv*.
and the conflaat visitor will always find some additi, ' '
to elevate his mind, and call forth fentinur.t.s of W .
der and admiration of the wifiom oi K^u t Ci -' ' V °"7
all things.
Muftum, Dcc. a.
* 4—»PHILADELPHIA^
niDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 3 0, 1796.
Autuum at Votas " 1
m : =s -3 8 J St
PRISIDENT f| c |.II 8 1 |
VTCE-P RESIDENT »s a, >» Q K
N^TFT
ampftiire,' 1- 6| > 1 j j Tj
Massachusetts, I6'li , .
Khode-ffUnd, 4! 4
ConneAient, f' 4 s
Vermont, 41 4
New-York', 12 it
New Jersey, 7 ? <
Peanfylvauia, i ; 2i 4 ij
Delaware, i i\ I I
Maryland, , -j 44! j'
Vn-ginii, I not 115 31
Kentucky, 1
I'Bnefiee, 1
North-Carolina, I I II 6 ,
South-Carolina, 8 S |
Georgia, 4 | 4
Total » hi S9 6 ' I *3 *5 ts 7 2 111
North-Carolina, one vote was given for Charles
Piackney, an 4 three for Judge Iredell.
Married, on Sunday last, it the honfe of Da
•iel St. Clair, Efq, ia Montgomery County, Mr.
Samuel W. Jertis, to Mis» Jani St. Clair,
daughter of the ban. Arthur Si. Clair, Govcraor
•f the Western Territory.
AUTHENTIC.
XxtreS »f a letter from Captain Henry De Butts ta
the Secretary •/ War, dated Pre/fue-IJe, 1 itk Dec.
" It is with extreme concern I difebarge the me*
laneholy duty ©f announcing to you the death of
Major-General Anthony Wayni, who, after an
exceedingly painful vifitatiom of the goat, expired
this moaning between the hours of 1 and 3 o'clock.
'' This difordei attacked him abont th« i;th ultimo,
during a very favorable pafTage irom Detroit hither,
where we arrived on the evening of the fucjeeding
d*y—it by turns his feet, knees and Hands,
with ceafiderable inflammation and a great degree of
pain, unti. about the 30th ; when the violence of both
beginning gradually to abate, inspired flattering hopes
©t" his fpcedy recovery:—but alas! these were of
ihort duration j for on the morning of the 3d intt
it appeared that the gout had taken poffeflion of his
ftomaeh, where it remained with unconquerable ob
llinacy and extreme torture, until it put a period to
his exifter.ee. His remains w.U be interred to-morrow
within this fort with military honors."
PITTSBURGH, December 14.
DIED, on Wedneiriay night, the 14th infl. at Prefqu'
Isle, fan excellency ANTHONY WAYNE, commander
in chief of the Federal army, ■
The birth of some great man, or death,
Gives a celebrity to 1 pets of earth ;
We fay that Montcalm fell on Akram's plain :
That Butler presses the Miami bank ;
And that the Promoatory of SigtHm
Has Achillas' tomb.—
saw W*r»« expire ; and there, ,
The traveller (hall fee hi 5 monument ;
At least his grave'. For this,
Corroding jealousy will not detract j
But will allow a mound—
Borne little fwclling of th« earth, \
To mark the interment of his bones.
Brave, honest Soldier, flutp——
And let the dewi weep over ttiee, t
And gales that iigh acroft the Lake ;
'fill men ikall rcoognixc thy worth.
And, coming to the {hall aft,
"Is this where Watn* is buried ?"
C A U riON.
The inhabitant* of this city would de well to
cenfidcr the importance »f carefully attending to" 1
♦xtinguifh their fires when they go 10 bed. The
hint is suggested from information that some of the
patrolcs, lall night had oteafion to call up a family
who left their Hrc burning in a cellar.
A dated meeting of the Pennsylvania Society
for Promoting the Abolition of Slavery, fcc will be
held at the usual place on the ad of lit mo. (Jan.)
J79 jr, at 6 o'clock m the evening.
BENJAMIN KITE, Sce'ry.
nth mo- 30th, 1796.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
& SALEM, December ao.
A,gentleman of this town hat receiv«d a letter
from his friend at Liverpool, Neva Seotia, wherein
ia mentioned the arrival «t Halifax of a packet
from England—which bring! an account of the dif
ferences with Spain being accommodated,and a hap
py profpeft of the negotiation with France bring
favorably terminated. The letter is dated the 22d
vlt. Thepaffageof the packet is not mentioned.
The above letter mentions, that a division of
RicheTy's fleet destroyed property »ri the Labra
doie (here Hrlhe amount of £ 25,090 sterling,
belonging to one house, and burnt a 20 gnu Ihip,
loaded eniirely with 6(h. The defirudlion on the
whole coast by the French fleet under admiral Ri->.
chery has been very great, and mast be fevetely felt
the lower class of citizens—the property destroy
ed confining of filh, provision* and articles of the
6ri ncccfity.
BOSTON, December jj.
Letter from Nantucket, December 16.
These will inform yon, that last night the ftiip
Alliance, Capt. Pease, arrived here from Wool
wich Bay, last from St. Helena, which he left
Sepiember 28, in company with five other whale
fr.ips for this port. Capt. Pease informs, that a
Dutch fleet of two 74*s, two frigates and a sloop
of war, were at Saldanna Bay, and that the En
glifli fleet lying at the Cape-os-Good-Hope, got
information and immediately proceeded against
tliem, and captured the whole squadron without
difficulty. Capt. P. also informs, that Mr. Leaeh,
a meichant of St. Helena, told him, a (hip belong
ing to Boston (her name and the cap ain's he had
forgotten, but certainly neither Sigonrney nor Do
ble) fro Ti India, with a freight for Europe, had
been c<.Lt away to the northward"aati eallwaid ol
the Cape-os G»t>(i -H>»pe, vefTe! and 6argo loft ;
the people were roughly treated by the natives, but
no lives were 101 l j the crew had taken i»
the fleet for Europe. Capt. P. on his paiffage, lat.
21, long. 58, spoke brig Ann, fiem Surinam for
Boston, had loft her foretopmaft. Alfs, spoke
W* Ann, Coffin, from Hifpaniola for Philadel
phia. In lat. 4r, 35, 67, spoke brig ,
Brown, 39 days from Surinam for Providence^—
(hort of proviiiens ; Capt. P. being also short of
provifiond, could afford no relief. Left the Janus,
wkaleftiip, Folger, matter, for New Bedford, in
lat. 2, S. long. 28, W. No other news than here
detailed.
NEW-YORK, December 29.
Several of the vefielt reported below ia yefter
day't Argm came up to toWo yesterday—vide Ma
rine lift.
Capt. Black, of the Niagara, failed from Hull j
on the 13d O&ober, and brings no Ister London I
accounts than before receivsd. |
Capt. B!a k, on the 27th October, being about
30 leagues from Bred, fell in,with a fleet of Britilh :
men of war, 18 ia namber, who fremed unwilling
ta speak him—and next Hay, lat. 46, was board
ed by the French frigate Felicity, one of Admiral ,
Richery'j iqua.li'mn of three 74 gun (hips, one 80,
and three frigates. liounH from Newfoundland to j
France. Capt. Black informed them, that he had
just left a British fleet ; from which circmnttance |
wc conclude, that he did not jnmp into the Lion's |
mouth, but altered bis course to avoid them.
Capt. Bia. k gave his latest papers to the captain
of the Felicity.
Yesterday the brij Poll Cary, Captain Prince,,
got under way from this port for St. Croix ; when
being in the bay, die went down so suddenly, that
the people had hardly time to save their lives—her
■Bafts arejult discoverable.
ARRIVED. Days.
Ship Niagara, Black, Hull 60
Planter, , Bristol
Barque Neptuae, O'Connor, Martha Brae 20
S*.w Ceres, , Cork 70
Brig Malabar, Kenyon, Cape Francois 45
Schooner Minerva, , Port-au Prince 45
Sloop Fox, Brooks, Baltimore
——, Watson, St. Thomas 25
BUONAPARTE.
Extrafl of a letter from a gentleman of
in Paris to his friend in this city, dated 9th Ther
midor 4th year ;
Dear friend, ,
" The hkenefs of General Buonaparte being just
come out, I fend you two copies; oue for yourftlf, the
other for my friend R—. I am sure it v. iil p!ea l e
you so much the mor<, at a Angular dif.overy has lately
been made the place of his origin. He
happens to be a countryman of yours, and even one of
-your friends, inftezd < f beu'.g a Corfwan, as firft re
ported, Buonaparte is an afiumed name ; his family
name is Shaler, from Mid Jletown in # Coiineilicut.
You will, ao douht l>e able to judge of the Wt>th di
rectly ; and not fail to ascertain the fact in, cafe the
people of Vmerica may have any doubts about it. I
expect they will rejoice at an evtnt which has afforded
mt and procures me the advantage of receiv
ing from him at this very mutuant every mark of
friendfhip, in consequence of our form*, acquaintance
in America.
" Salut and Fraternity. - " C——
KINGSTON, (Jamaica*) November 12.
The Royal Edward, on ker passage, spoke an
American veilel from Cayeuse, and was informed,
that a lirjng French squadron had arrived there,
and was to cruile on the coast of Brazil. The
captain of the Thetis, of London, bound to the
Welt-Indies, bnt captured and carried into Cay
enne, was on board the Americau veffcl. The In
dian Queen, Englifti Eatt-Indiamen, was captwr
ed and carried into that place, a fkort time before
the American left it.
The Ftench brig Cetf Volant, prize to his ma
j'-fty's (hips Magicirnne and Quebec, was sent into
Port-Royal on Wednesday.
She was taken on the firft of this month, oft
Altavela ; said to be bound to Plymouth as a car
tel, but from circumstances lufpeAed to be a&ual
ly on her way to Old France with three deputies,
carrying dispatches from Rigaud for ihe exeeutive
dtre&ory. To rover their deigns, they had on
board a few Englilh prifonert, with some French
officers of the Renommee frigate, formerly brought
in here and exchanged. After a ftrid fearck the
difpatchee weie found, with which capt. Ricketts
immediately proceeded to tke Mole.
The brig was frcm the Barradiere, where oar
- 1 people had been put on board with the aflurante
1 that (he was bound to Aux-Cayes, from which they
: ' were to be dirtdly feat in a cartel, to Port
, Royal.
- | November 19.
; ] A Spaniftt fchroiier, with a quan
-1 | tity of fpeeie on board, came in on Sunday from
| the Havannah, which (he left fix days aj;o. Twelve
f , (hips of the line were in the harbour when (he fail
" I ed
, A merchant veflel had arrived at Martinique,
, which fell in with a homeward bound Eaft-lndia
e fleet, and learnt that admiral Pringle had taken,
- without firing a gun, and carried into the Cape of
t Good Hope, the Dutch fleet, going out to tke
- East-Indies, confiding of three fail of the line, one
: fifty, three frigates, and a sloop of war.
Capt. Glegg, has feixed and carried into Mo
rant-hay, a Spanilh veflel, said to have upwards of
2»,ooo'dollars on board. His own ve(Tel, crnifing
for the prote&ioaof the trade of this iflaad, has
> been stripped of her handt by the Diligence, and
- (he i* not able to proceed to sea.
t November 16.
t The Penelope Cartel, capt. Spinks, from Cape
a Nichola Mole, arrived on Satqrday, having carried
* from Aax-Cayes to the Mole, 135 officers and
Seamen, mostly belonging to the Salisbury.
t Certain information is said to be received, that
I general Abercrombie may bt daily expeAed in St.
1 Domingo; with 4.000 men from the windward if
1, lands, where general Stewart succeeds to the com
;- mand.
d , Shortly after general Aberctombie's arrival at
>• St. Domingo, general Bowycr may be expeAtd
s here with 12at) infantry, and a cempauy of actil
il lery.
The 3ifp Hape, Harier, 60 days from Green-
with a valuable carg® of dry goods, cordagf,
herringi, & c . was wrecked on the Pallifadocs, near
Plumb Paint, en Monday night. She was endea
vouring to get into Port-Royal, but being taken
back hy the wind, and very near the shore, was
overpowered by the (urge. All the people on board
escaped : but as there is a fcaman miffing, belong
iog to his majesty's ship Success, which sent a beat
to her assistance, it it feared he is drowned.
We ltarn from St Domingo, that the vicompte
de Burges, with a- very considerable force, has pe
netrated so fuccefsfully into the republican tcrrit©
ry, that he is now encamped at Donnon and La
lanueric, about iz miles from Cape Francois.
A Dominica paper, containing an account of
tbe captttreof the Dutch fleet by admiral Pringle,
w.ts biought in the Cuiacaman, but was detained
by an officer belonging to one of the ftiips at Port-
Royal.
The Henry failed from Liverpool the 22d of
September, la lat. 13.45. 'O"K*0 "K* 35'45- 1»e fclr
in with aad took the Aip Abigail, a chartered vef
fcl from Batavia, nearly fire meriths out, loaded
with sugar, coffee, pepper, tea, See. bound to Am
ftcrdain. A Dutch gentleman was pafTenger in
her. The Abigail is arrived with the Henry.
FALMOUTH, Not. 22.
Friday moraing arrived at this port, from the
Grand Caymanas, the schooner Pally and Betsey,
Capt. Bordon. The Sampson with 14 fail of
merchantmen. pafTcd the Caymaaas en Sunday
morning the 23d inttant. Capt. Bordon saw a
brig to the northward of that island, half full of
water, her fails torn to pieces in a gale, and no
hands on board ; name on her stern, the Sally of
New-York
MONTEGO-BAY, November 19.
Tnefday arrived at Falmouth, the barque Nep
tune, C ft. O'Conner, from New York in 13 days.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Mr. Fekno,
The following article appeared in the Aurora
yeflerday.
Such an open avownl of the wijiei of those da
rr.eflic traitors whether native or foreign, whose ma
chinations threaten to involve out country in war
and bluod, has scarcely before appeared. On the
principles heie advanced, it is the duty of our ci
ti*«ns to invite a foreign power to take the United
States into keeping. What panders of prostitution
would the Jacobin faction prove, could they but
once debauvn the people of this country, and de
fttoy their •' sslf respf.ct." ' C.
ExtraS from tie Aurora, ■
" Attempts are made te fprcad alarms refpeft
ing Louisiana, as if the possession of that country
iiy Fiance would sot be of the utmost advantage
considered in every relation ; firft as an exemplary
warning agaicft the growing spirit of arifltcracy
among us; fecoudly as an aid agaiaft the wicked
arts of Britain to entrap us into an ejffeujivc and
difcnfive alliance ; and third as a fafe and >ec afy
lum trom tyranny in the event of the majority •{
ourMlow cni«en» being betrayed inta fa diabolical
••n alliance, in so a tame a futTender of republican
freedom at the feet ot arijltcracy and kingly pa
f; eantry !"
WastverMiy country, Poland excepted, so abo
minibly ini'ulted at our own ? A foreign miaifter cotnifs
here and levies war, while the government and the na
ton pcoelaim neutrality. Another tarns his back on
the cunftituted authorities and his impudent face to the
people j yet while he pretends to coax he dare« to
threaten and on* voicc as indigattian is raised
against him. Heedless of that voice, the hired press of
the rainifter audatiouily declares that the French will
afford an asylum in Louisiana for perfccutcd patriots—
such no doubt as David Bradford. Aad that a French
army marching through .the United States would not
do much mifchicf. In the Aurora we read, with pro
per edification, the threats of an American citizen,
commander of two French (hips, against his country,
if we ehufe Adams Prefidcnt. The Boils* Chronicle,
to cover the whole, ealls our difpofitien towards France
rebellious. What kind of malleable ijuff do theft
infulters imagine the American nation are made of h
Every American who laves hit country well,
readil* acknowledges that aur very Dear Allies
for four years past, and at the present time, give
undeniable proofs of their being our very dear al
,lie«, if the fpaliations M our Cemaurcc- to the
amount of 4 ir. illions of dollars are any evidence—
yet this is the nation, that talks of tieing the bands
of Friendship more clafely, this is the nation which
the Genetifed, mongrelifed amerieans fay ought te
be laved better than our awn—A very clear sample
of Love—but a piratical way of (hewing it, this
is like a lover eourting his mistress to ileal her Jew
els —If the French King loved us well enough to
lend us Eiyht millions aad the Directory well
enough to difpoil by their ardeis our merchants of
foui millions—to which ought our Gratitude to
ilahdf the King or llie terrible reputlit—
Gratitude as per Favour.
In a paragraph in the Aurota of WednefSay,
which contains as many falsehoods as could well be
conpreflcd within its limits, it is said, that " the
JirJl French art'ijls arc employed in the trahfportation
of the statues and pi&ures front Italy and this
is almoß the only palliative offeted to foften the
criminality of the plunder. How abundant soever
auiils may have been in France, the revolution has
operated as an ostracism ta them, which few have
escaped. But if they have the firft artifls, that is
te fay, packers, waggon-drivers, See. to emplay
for this puvpofe, their conduct, with regard to-the
whole tranfaihon, will remain the fame i. and (in
the opinion of the be& men in France) wherever
the trophies arc exhibited, they will be regarded
as monuments of disgrace arid infamy—They will
pr*ve a beacan to warn the nations of the earth
from any connexion or intercourse with the French ;
till at length, tired and finking under the intolera
ble load of infamy, they will, as' the only means
left to retrieve the honor of the Ftench-name,
tranfpovt back again, their ill gotten plunder ; and
instead «f korfcrwr mules, they will cause the pic
| tures an(? ftatwej to be li-trmfpoMed by tbe base
I inlhuments of their deportation.—And God fend,
■ 'hat citizen Buonaparte may live to be one of the
! train.
Mas. Gif AT TAN
Refpe&fully informs the Ladies and Gentlemen of the
City, that the second
LADIES' CONCERT
Will be on TUESDAY NEXT, the 3d of January
at Mr. Oellers's Hotel,
Act I.
Grand Sinfonio, Haydn.
Holy Lord, Mr*. Grattan, Handel,
Concerto Violia, Mr. G"illin»ham
Trio and Chorus, Siege of Belgrade, Storace.
dCT 11.
Concerto in Bb. Mr». Gratta», Dlflek.
Ah non fai, Mrs. Grattan, Sarti.
Quartett, Pleyel.
Grand Chorus Pirate, Storace.
*4"* The Concert to begin at half pafl Gx j and at
half past eight, the music will attend for the Ball.
Mrs. Grattan bigs leave to inform the Ladies and
Gentlemen, th t the fubfeription-book i» at her iaoufe
No 39, North Sixth-street, for the reception of those
names who wifli to honor her with their commands.-—
A fubfcriptiou for eight nights 16 dollars, including &
Gentleman and Lady's ticket, both nansferrable—
Half fubferiptions 8 dollars, including one ticket.—
Single ticket 1 dollars.
Mrs. Grattan takes the liberty of requeuing the
fubferibers to fend for their tickets any day after
Tharfday, the i;th of December, at No. 39, NorA
Sixth-street.
0? Single tiekets to be had the day of the Coaeert
only, at the Bar of Mr. Oellcri's Hotel.
December 30.
Bank of Pennsylvania.
AT a Meeting of the Stockholders of the Bank of
Pennsylvania, at the Bank, December 29th, 1796,
' It was unanimoafly resolved, That, fro* the informa
tion this Jay given by the Beard of Directors, and the Do
cuments exhibited, the Stockholders do fully approve the
oondmft of the DireAors; and that the thanks of this
meeting be returned to th« said Directors for their activi
ty, zeal, and fuccefsful exertions in tho discharge of their
daties in relation to the abuses Utelj pra&ifed upon, thia
Institution.
Rdolved, That the foregoing Resolution bejpubiifced in
the Newfpaptis of this city
EDWARD SHIPPEN, Chairman.
BFNJAMIN CHEW, Jr.' Scc.etary.
Dec. 30. § s t
A Ball.
J. DOZOI.'a Ball will be held on Friday next, the
30th December, at Mr. Oellers's hotel, and continue
every fortnight during the season.
Gentlemen's tickets at one dollar each, to be had at
the hotel, where ladies who choose to honour hina
withtheircompany may also be supplied with ticket*.
J. Dozol refpeitfully informs the ladies and gentlemen,
that he still continues his daneing lihool at the abovte
hotel, and the hours of attendance for 1 dies are from
ten to one in the morning, and for gentlemen from fix
to nine in the evening, on Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, during the season.
N. B. Private lessons will be given, either at hi»
school, or at the houses of those who may chcofe to fa
vor him. " ' ,
Dec. i». fit.
Women's Cloaks.
GEO R. G E D © ON,
No. ts< South Third-street,
Has just received, per Eagle, Capt. Fufiick, vial.ca
don, as affortnaent of
Scarlet
Drab f Cloaks trimmed with tur and
Purple and f ermine.
Pearl J
D ccn t' v 15. ' §
A Gold Watch was Found
A few days ago, in the lower part of Second-ftrees.
The owner, en calling at No. 117 in said iircet, and
proving it to be his or hers by a description in writing*
may aeeeive it on paying for this advancement.
December 29 3
For Sale,
By the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLI NGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 3» w&f
- — " u ■■ ■ ■ ....
Elegant Brufiels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale Jiy George Dobfen, No. 25.South Third-street.
December Ij. « dtf
»
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Miffliu county, Pennsylvania, in,
fonr faparate Patents. For terms ot sale 'apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South S<*cond-llreet.
Oflober 31. mwftf
To be Rented,
A Large Vault and Cellar,
That will contain tco pipes, Gtuate in Walnut
between Fourth aad Pifth-flreets. Also a COACH
HOUSE and STABLE, with Stalls for five horfcs,
N. B. Goods Stored by the month.
Enquire of Benjamin W. Morris.
November 30. towftt
Just Arrived,
Per fchotnir Define, Captain Marfe, frtm dux*
Cayet,
A Cargo of Sugar and Coffeb.
Also, per brig Sttfcy, Captain IVbite, from the Isle
of France,
12 Hogfceads, 1 puncheon, and 13 canisters, of
Batavia Sugar
45 Hogsheads Pepper of Malabar
63,900 lb. Coffee
13.000 Cotton
4,000 Indigo For Sale by
F. Ceppinger,
No. 211, Sonth Front-street
December at $
New-England Rum, Salmon, Beef,
Chocolate, Rice, Boflon mould and dipt Candles, a
few quarter-casks of Sherry Wine, a few barrels of
Cyder, and a few quintals of excellent T ible COD
FISH —for sale by
Ezekiel Hall,
No. 42, Ner.h W?ter-ftrs*t.
December 14th, 1796.New Books. Bo^
Robert Campbell & Co. Dut
men
No 40, South SecondJirect t j
Are just opening a large and estenfive assortment of
tlie lat|ft and best London .editions, arnon £ which | p
are the -following new, -valuable and scarce Book 6. I rea |
CollcAion of State Papers, relative to the present wars j j
between Eaglaad and France, containing authentic copie J —■
of all the treaties, manifcltoes, proclamations, &c. made |
by the different powers, 3 vols. 8 vo 1
Stedmfan's Hiitory of tbe American Revolution, 1 vols* I
4to, with elegant maps, plates, 6cc.
Fergufon's hiftory,of the Roman republic, 3 vol 4 to. j
Britiih Poets, 75 vols, witiithe lives by O*'* Johnson. Joe
S. 'Ie book, 44 vols i nn
:Kin, oi fc'rufika's works ao vols. Bvo French. JFo
survey ®f the Ottoman Empire, by Hawkins, j
4 vo!?. j t *
Wira ieau's speeches ; in the Natioaal assembly, tranflatcd J
by-Wbite, zvols- J
travelling anecdotes. 1 CX
Secr< c hii ory of Charles 11 1 vols. j at
Britiih Plutarch, 8 vols. 12 mo. j Jjg
Coiirtreau's aonieffions 2 vols. I __
Venya's history of Calilor?-ia, % yols, Bvo. I
account oi China, 8 vo. I
Beaumont and Fletcher's works, 10 vols. Bvo.
' Ell's journey thro' -JFsanders, Brabant and Germany to j r-j
Switzenand, Svo. I J
Wyndhama's travels thro' Europe, 4 Bvo. J
Smyriiove's lurvty of the Ruffian Empire.
Foilitres northern voyages, Bvo J
Varieties of literature-, a-vol. 8 vo. I bo
Grozier's defer os-China J tic
We lion's Un iverfal Botanist, 4 vols. ■
Elegant extrads in Natural History, 1 vols. Svo I p c
Guthrie's.hiilory of the world, 11 vols 1 eoc
X)'Anviiie*s compendium -of ancient geography,! vols.!
with maps, lie I an
Blackftone's commentaries on the laws of Englaad, by j
Chriilian, 4 vols. J &
John Hali stephenfon's works, 3 vols. Svo.
laanghorn's Plutarch, 6 vols, lam j f a
Beauties of the Drama, 4 vols. I th
Muller's Illuflration of the Sexual systems, 1 vols. Svo. J
with plates
Priestley's leAures on history, a vols. Bvo. I _
"Ch.imners'sDiilionary of arts and sciences, by I>r. Rees, 1
5 volt, folio.
Beawe's history' civil, commercial, political and htorsr-y 1
of and Portn/al, 2 vols in oue, folio, |
Mamlein's memoirs ol Ruflia, from 1717 with I
maps, p.ans, &c. 4to. I k
Forrcil's voyage to New Ouinea, with plates, I F
Wright's travels ihro'France, 2 vols. Svo jc
Doug ai® on the anclquiry of the earth, 4to , j fe
Clavigero'shiliory traniiated by Cullen, ivols j
4t(»" plates. 1
Contiorcc-'s life ofTurgot J w
Maretu's travels thro' Cyprus, Syria, &c. 2 vols. 1
Lava.er's efTays on PhyfiogHomy, 3 vols. Bvo. J n
World Dilplay'd, 20 vols, bound in 10. J \
Memoirs de Dumouriez. . In
foundling hofpitai for wit, a collevftion of fugitive pieces, 1
10 vo s. I v 2iHO.
X»etters from Paris in 1791 anH '92, with a repreientation |
oi 'he capture of Louis XVI. at Varennes, a vols.
Vo ' rs
Woore's view of Society and manners in Italy, France, 1
Switzerland and Germany, 4 vols. Bvo.
Ruffcl's nroaern hurope, 5 vols.
Gibbon's Roman hiupire, a vols, abridged.
Andrew's hi&o<yof the war with America, France, Spain !
and Holland', 4 vols. Svo with portraits, maps, plans, &c. 1
Ribeaut's inftory oi the French Revolution.
TJlloa's voy age to South America
Burke on .he sublime and beautiful '
Neckar on the *iminiftratien of the French Sna.ee.
JMortuner'a complete duAionary of trade and coisancrce
so 10. *
Northern antiquities, ivoli. 8»o. j
DoUllcy » collection of Poems 6 vola. B*..
Radcliife's journey thro' flolland, 4to.
Peimant'i hiitory of Quadrupeds, with elegfnt engravings,
2 vols. 4to.
Philafopkical Dictionary, 4 vol. n mo.
Belingbroke'a works, 5 vol. 8»o.
Antiquit«l'i memoirs ul the Coart «f Louis xvj. % vol. It.
Children's friend, in Italian, 4 vol Svo. •
Home's element's 01 criticism, a vol. Svo.
Collection of prologues, &c. 4 vo . X 21110.
Buchan's life of Flcichwaud Thornton, Bvo.
Gaj'c fables, with elegant engravings, t vo.
Kcimeuyon Garaening, 1 vol Bvo,
Ab-rcronibie's Gardener's ljiAionary, 3 Tol. 11 mo.
Remartaule infiane.s in ancient and modern hilt.ry, ej
emj/iiiied by t fketchts.
Biugrapnieal liiitto. ary, containing t!u livei .f the most
can cat pi»fons, Bvo.
Comparative diiplay of different opinions on the French
revolution, 1 -ol
Complete art of tiook-keeping.
Biograpnicai anecdotes ol vv". Hogarth thePaintar.
Bu ton'", .atu'ral history ot Birds, 9 voi. Svo.
Elegant exua<St», prose, verfe.cpiftle and l'crmons 4vol Bvo.
' M'ar.unere, lc Grcnd D ilianaire Geographique at Cri
tique, t j vol. folio.
New fylb m 01 natural History, 3 vol. 8 to. with plates-
Plans lor the government of British India, publiflud un
der the aulpiccs of Mr. Dundasas Secretary, 4to.
tjßj-r', Hawk liiury on the conduit of Great-Britain, to
nations.
Hoyle's Dictionary, or treasury of music, Jvo.
Hiitory of Franca, from the firft eftabiifliment of that
monarchy, to, and including a narration of the late
revolution, 3 vol. Svo.
History of Spain, 3 vai-
Galdfmith's experimental F hilofophy, 1 vola. Svo.
Kippax's Fneory and Praciice of Commrree.
Purtlock'a and Dixan'a Vcyagesv
Family Brewer. >
Travels of Anaicharfis.
Thorapfon's Seasons, elegant edition
Payne's Geographical Extra&»
Sy'itcm of natural lultory, 1 vol. from the German of
ProftlTor Raff
Williams's letters from the 13th of July to th* esta
blishment of the constitution of '95
Frend's Algebra
Chalmers's colleilion of treaties, 1 vol.
Six on the conftrudtion and use of thermometers
Ned Evan»> 4 vol.
Clarentine, 3 vol.
Sullivan's view of nature, 6 vel.
Bsloe's trailflation of Herodotus, 4 val.
Pindar's works, with a new volume
King of Pruffia'i work, 20 vol. in French
Alarfhal's rural ornaments, 2 vol.
Hook's translation of Ariofto, 2 vol.
The kifles ef Johannes Secundes
Bellfham's memoirs of the reign of George 18.
Letters of an Hindoo Rajah, 4 vol.
dward's history of the VVefi-lndies, * vol.
Bells British theatre, 25 vol. elegant
Jones's do. icvol. do.
Ouvres de Voltaire, 70 torn. do.
Works of the king of Prussia, 13 vol. (Snglifh) do.
Abbe de Calonne's view of the political Itate of Europe.
Swift's works 27 vol.
Letters from Scandinavia, 1 vol.
Gibbon's milcellaneous works, 3 vol.
Gibbon's Roman Empire, 6 vol.
Collection of Farces, 6 voL
R. C. fc Co. have received an immenle colle&ion of
Books in every department of literature —-London and
Dub.:n editions —amongli which art a capital ailort
ment of LAW-BOOKS, MEDICAL BOOKS, &c. ijeM'
all in the neatest and some of them in the raoft fplen- o ' c i o
did bindings.
Public and private Libraries supplied on the molt
reasonable terms.
December 24 y
The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE. TT
THE public are refpe&fully informed, that \\
this animal it to be ieen every day, from 8 two
o'clock in the, morning till fun down, in Market- a C.
ftrcet, No. i©6, south fide, between Third and tom
Foarth-ftieets.
Admit l micc a q.yirtcr rtj a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
•CJ" At the request of many persons it will be
exhibited on evenings from five to eight o'clock,
at half a doilar each The room will be well
lighted. November 7.
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second tTRiET.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale—-a
Check Book for examination—and prises paid » n
►he late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and regiflering, for
the City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries qu ]
both of which are now drawing—information where
ticket! are to be had, -and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete Uft of all the prizes in the late New- ,j e i
Port Long-Wharf, Kotelwid Public School Lottery, for no j
examination. !
The fuWcribw solicits the application of tie public <j r;
and his friends, who wish to purchaie or fell Bank Stock,
Certifieates, Mis of Exchange or Note., Honfes, Lands,
See. or to obtain money on deposit of property
Also I'ickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dsllsrs each, whieh will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Flvrtadslphia, iß t
Brokers Oftice, and
r COMMISSION STORE.
No. 6t South Third ftraet, oppofito the national new Ba.lr. | Tj
1 QAMUEL M FR UfJCLS and JOHN VAN REED, 1.
o have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of cei
FR -.UNCES & VAN REED, in the bufioefs of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commission merchants. They buy and
fell on commission every species of flock, ootesof hand,
' bills of exchange, house* and lands, &c.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds of
writing* in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; aeceunts adjuftcd, and books fettled, in the 5
mod correct manner. Conllant attendance will be givers. at
They l'olicit a fliare of the public favor [ tlsey are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it. —
•» N. B. The utmost secrecy observed. »:
S.*MUKL M. FRAUNCES, 4<
a JOHN VAN REED.
«• Phflad. augaft »7, m&wtf 6;
e, Horses taken in, ir
Ftr the Winter Seafotu, £
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, U j (<
in rules on the Bristol Road, where good (tabling i» pro- i(
c. I vided, and great eare Will b« taken of them c
William Bell.
Not. *j. mwfawmthtf. «
City cf Washington. *
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No.II,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 10,000 dollars, & ) •
>dwelling-honf», 5 °ash 30,000, are ) '
I ditto 15,000 & cafli aj,oo« 40,000
T * I ditto 15,000 & cafe 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & oafli 10,000 10,000
I ditto J-,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & e«fl> 5»oo» 10,000
1 calh pri«e of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each# are ■ 10,000
to do. 1,900 - r 10,000
•i. iodo. jot - - 10,000
06 do. 100 - - 10,000
oft *00 do. 50 • * 10,000
400 do. 15 " 10,000
ich ' 1,000 do. 30 • 16,000
15,000 do. 10 • 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
31,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
;M " N. B. To favour those who may tale a quantity of
un " Tickets,tHe priae of 40,000 dollars will be the t.i »t drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but oni : /
t® And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or priies, in ten days after drawing, will be received sot
any number not less than 30 tickets.
hat This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimcn of the pri
late vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Washington—
Two beautiful defigus are already felefled for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it ispropofed toere<3 two centreand fourcomer buildings,
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the HoKI Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will he made to defray
the necefTary expenses of printing, Second the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
r Univerl'ity, to be eteded within the eity of Washington.
" 0 The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
„ old off.- -The money priies will be payable in thirty days
after it is finifhed; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve montha after the
drawing is closed, are to be confidtrad a 9 given towards
the fanS for the University ; it being determihed to fettle
the whole business id a yosr from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The r«al securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Dire&ors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lettery.
The twenty tour gentlemen who by appobtmant of
the late Commilfioners alfifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk I
a second time on behalf ef the public ; a fufficient num
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jects may continue to fayor the deiign.
By accounts received from the difterent parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, whcr« the tickets
have been fant for sale, the public are afTured that the
, drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necefTary to insure a fafe disposal of
°P e * the tickets, has rendered the lUcr fufpeufion indispensable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colambia ; of
James Weft &Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boftor.:
of John Hopkins, Rkhinoßd ; and of Richard Walls'
Cooper's Ferry, eo '
Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby rtotified that an
ele&ion for twelve Dire&ors for the enfuinj y#ar will Wl]
hel«i at the Bank on Monday the 9th of January at ten
o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Cafhter. '
Dec. I. 9 J. lB
Waihington Canai Lottery,
NO, I. the
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised . 1
the underwritten, to raise twenty-Ox thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City ot Waihington, froMi th IJol J o
tomacto theEaftern Branch IlaruouJr. u
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -1 Prize of ao,ooo dailars, 20,©00
1 ditto 10,000 jq,goo
T«CJir} ««•
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
IO ditrto 400 4.000
ao ditto 100 a,OOO io
55 ditto 50 2,7j0 on
j 750 ditto 13. 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, *6,150
—— ——— SOl
5850 Prim, *75>°°o
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
1750® Tickets, atTenDollars, - 175,000 a
0" The Commilfionera have taken the Securities te 01.
quired by the aTorefaid a<S for the pmndual payment »f co
the priies. 1 ■ ■
The drawing of rim Lottery will commence, without w
delay, as fqon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely hi
notice will be given. a
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the p:
drawing i» finilhed, (hall be confidercd as relintjuifhed for aj
the benefit »f (he Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed ) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, nf D. -
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
CEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW, r
JAMES BAItRY.
City of Walhiogvon, Feb. 11 ■ i j,
Paterion Lottery.
FOR raising fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven 1
dollars and fifty cents, by a dedu&ion of fifteen per
f cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz J
I Prize of 5 000 dollars is dollars SCOO f
J 1 1000 1000 j,
l 50® s°°
' £ • fIOO XOCO j
r 20 100 2000
1 09 50 49J0
e »oa »< S°°°
f, ICOO 1© *0,000
5 Lafl drawn numbers as roco dollars each, 5000
133* Prizes. 44>4J0
40«8 Blanks. '
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44>45° '
By. order of the Dimeters of'the Society for establish- 1
ing Uteful Manufactures, the fuperintendants of the Pat- 1
orlon Lottery have rcquefted the Managers to offer the -
foregoing Sjheme to the public, and have diro&ed them
1 | to refund the money to those per'ons who have purchased
*" in the former Lattery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
a this Lottery.
rhe-lottiwy has a&ually commenced drawing, and will
contiuae until fijtifhod. A lift of the Blanks and Prize.
_ may be seen at thr office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second ft-raet, who will give information where tick
ets lAay be procured.
Dated this 17th day of Jane, 1795.
J. N CUM MING, 7
' JACOB R. HARDENBERG, > Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL,
1 Priae of 5000 - 5000
i ,000 - . - 1000
x 500 - s°°
j ' aOO . 1000
10 J CO - - 3000
90 jo • 45°°
165 35 " " " 411 -5
The five last drawn tickets, 1000 e.ch, 5000
Being all the valuable prizes, belides a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is confidcrably naore than owe third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets it great
ly mcreafed, and it i* worth the notice of those
who hold tickets in the old fdieir.e, that they can ex
change Uieir tickets for thole in the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance considering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all feld, the drawing in
future will be ofttner, and the Lottery soon finilhed.
November it. mwt
fe> ' By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
far Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, A r c. 64, 1
South SecondJlrect.
>ri- __
£ SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
ngs iFor raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agretabiy to an Aft ol
* the Legtflature of Pcnnfylvaaia, pafled during the last
™ leffion, for building a Stone Bridge over the Rivei
• SchuvlkilL at the Borough of Reading, in the County ol
B*ks. Dollars.
■ 1 I'Hie of ao.ooo Dollars - 20,000
r . 1 do. of t® 000 do. • • ao.ooc
3 , 3 do. of 5 000 do. - * 15.000
)n 4 do. of a,OOO do. - - 8,060
n * 20 do. of 1,000 do. - 20,000
are 39 s°® " " *9*s°°
lays > gQ do, of 200 do. - » - 16,c00
late 100 do. of 100 do. - - 20,00 c
the do. of 50 do. ~ - i^,ooq
irdf 1 do< of do. to be paid the poffcf- > Q
; ttle for of the firft drawn no. {
aw- 5 do« of «,o©o do. to be paid polfclfors )
9 of the Bvc lad drawn nos IS »°
zes, 9,400 • *5 d°* ! - 141,000
ank ~ _ ,
, 10,054 Pruds 300,000
10,046 Blanks
lt ° f 30,000 Tickets >t Ten Dollars jao.oeo
All Prises fisali be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finilhed, upon the demand of a poMoi ef a fortunaK
u ™ ticket, (übjea to a deduaion of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are difpot c
ob " of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjbner, William IVilman,
V™ Joftpb Hiefter, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
the Jennet May, John Otto, John Kclm, Daniel CraeJ\
and iebajlian Milltr, Commissioners.
tl of Readieg, May the 9th, 1796
able. Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. %, to be had at the
above offitw, where the earliest information of the draw
; of ing of the Wafkington No. t, aod Patterfon
ton : are received, and csietkhabks for etaawaaMon and regif
fells' wring are kept.
i Oflobor 7.
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOOGALL will «?en *is fch»ol o» Mo«.
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in th« mornmg, at hit
Elegant hew Ball Rooms, <
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Street*.
Hours of tuition for young ladi.s, from 10 to 1 o cloak
on Mondays, Wednafday, and friday Biorninga; and ior
young gentlemen from 6 *0 9 o'clock ©n the evening* •
the fame days.
In addition to a namber of new cotillioHt, he mean*
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The 6rft pratfifißg hall to be on Tuesday e
vening, the ftrft of November, and lo Ve continued every
Tuesday, during the feafoii.
For terms, 4cc, enquire at his hoafe, M#.1 3 4, Market
ftreet. <
Oft. 17.
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufaftorv, fittoit* J
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new, J
on au entirely original conftiu&ion, and built of best
materials, and may br. set to work immediately. >.
who with to pure hate, are requeued to apply at No 173,
South Second Street. September ij« t t f tf
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AWAY from the fubferiber cm the ajd OAobor,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 11 year*
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had en a ninc-d grees
coat, with a green velvet eape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped vest ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
Jiis name and dress. He has been acttftomed t« driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will b«
I paid for feenring him so that the fubferiber may get him
a"ai», and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
Xaften, Maryland, Nov. IP. 14 xmiawtf
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a eomplete a (Ton in cut of every thing neceflary
to be uled for*he
i Preservation of the Mouth and Teethi,
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Treth ;
Demrifice in powder; Opiate; rxeellent Elixir for
3 iwecteniug the mouth and preferring the teeth —he
3 alio fiirnifhes Brulhes and foft Sponges.
3 * # * He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, abeve
3 Fourth-street.
3 November 16. tt»
0 „ .
I Samuel Richard,et
O "P ESPECTFULLY infarms the Gentlemen
_ 1-V Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
o TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
sity of Philadelphia:
Tha Subscript-ion Room will be furnilhed with all the
0 daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bof
i- ton, Baltimore, t6gether with those of the principal coir.-
t- mercial cities of Europe—They will fee regularly filed 4
Le and none permitted to be taken away on any account .
a Tea, CofFee, Son pes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
:d of French Liquors; together with the usual reheftimenw,
ts will at all times be procure! at the,bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
iH the choice ft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the moll
eiJ approved Malt Liquors front London and other brewerios.
>4 The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
k- produAions of the Season.
Large and I'mall Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours molt convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
■8. regularly kept for conveniency, the ISillof Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, nnd
the utmost attention paid to cUaulinefs, and every other
30 requHite. ,
30 Samuel Richardet will hehappy to receive, a-nd »
80 execute the commands of his Frifnds, and the Public at
do large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledge®
3© hi pifelf that nothing on his part flaali be wanting to pre
-00 fcrve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
-15 iagly honored.
GO Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
>r- ■■" —
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
}fe XT OTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re*
IN ceived ac the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
*" until the expiration ef the firft day of March next en
suing, for the supply of all rations which mqy he required
for the ufc of the United the firj day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, '.798, both
in days inclusive, at the places and within the diilrl&g here
afeer mentioned, via. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
Pjcfque lfte; at Sanduflcy Lake, and on S.-mdulky
River i at Detroit; at^Michiliitiackinac; at Fort-Frank*
linj at Pittsburgh; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton jr
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-JefFcrfon; at CSrenville; at
Pitque Town and Loramies Store; at Eort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
M"> Steuben ; at FortMaffac ; at any place from Fort MalTac
to the south boundary ol the United States on the river
Muhfippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies required ior any poftsor places not
G l mentioned in thii notice, all such supplies fliall be fur
|a nifked at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
[vet posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed eft
ot between the United States and the ContraAor. '
ars. The rations to be supplied are to consist of the sot*
3GG lowing articles, viz.
»oc One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
3QO One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces et
o<^o pofk or bacon.
i>oo a gin 0 f rum, brandy or whiskey.
s°° Ohe quart and half a pint of falt."\
Do ° Two quarts of Vinegar, ( , , , .
30C Two pounds of So a ;, ( P er huß<Jred
One pouiid of Candles, J -
joo Xke rations are to bo furnifhed in fach quantities, as
there ihall at all 'times during the said term, be fuilieient j
300 for the confuraption of the troops at Michilimackiiiac, Do- I
)pc troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, f®r the term ©rfix months in
advance, and at each of the other pofls, for the term o(
•joo at least three months in advanee, in good and wholefonie
orovifions, ii the fame lhall be required. It is to be un-
Jerliood, that the Cojitra&or is to beat th« exp»ence and
00c rifle of iffuirgthe supplies to the troops at eech post, and
gi. that all losses sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
iat< I>y means of the troops of the United States, (Uali be paid
The f or at the price of the articles captured or deiiroyed, on
»t c rhe dcpofitions of two or more perions of credueblo cha
'CD racers, and the cercifisate of a commiilioncd ©llicer, ai"-
srtabiing the circumilanccs of the loss, and the amount
las, of th* a 1 tkles for which oompenfation (hall be claimed
le ss OLIYER WQLCOTT, g
Secretary of the Treafnrjr. "
the ' T* —
ow PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
£? -No. 119 —
C H E S« UT-BTR E E T.
t£ [Prix Fight Dollars ptr _ w