f> • y : * » s •-? j ' iK " •:\ ?? .'■•***■'+' . ' ■■' 1 :•' .. " j 'v *'• . X- " *w
#a?ettt ifn* b-Philadelphia tidily Advertiser.
, s wriipjr FVENIIsX;. NOVEMBER 11,1796- [Tows X.
W««. .3°4-] I ,„r 1 ' , lO HN MIL! IK, Jun. & Co.
For Freight or Charter
•>V To Europe or the W.lndies,
Th» new Brig FAIR AMERICAN,
Calley, Master ; burthen 14J t has
rood :aiodationH and is now ready to receive, a
C»rg„ ;— Apply te the Captain on board, firft whuf
above tirf Still-House, S.uthwark, or to
Jfaac Harvey, jun.
\Vh; for sale, at his itore, No. 5, South
YVater-ftreet,
of Cayenne Cotton
Soal Leather
And a parcel of Carolina Rice, in whole ™d ha»
tierces. nth mo. nth. " 2 " r
" For Madeira,
The Jhip Concord,
Capt. John Thomfan. For freight
or passage apply on board, or to
Peter Blight;
Who has for sale, 1 quantity o£
Brandy, in pipes
Whiting and Cnpperat, in hojftieadt
Old Hock, in cases
Dutch Cream-Cheese', in boxes
Window Glass
Empty Gin-Cases
Glass Ware, in boxes
Painters' Colours, ground in oil
Sweet Oil, ii» cases of a dozen battles each
Hazlenuts, in sacks.
November 11. d 1 ™
• ' Wanted to Charter,
/Jwll A fajl-failing Vessel,
B That will rarry 5 or 600 barrels ; t°
-SiOsisfc:. load immediately for the Weft-Indies-
Ajply ro
Peter Blight.
November 10. - '' dx
For sale, freight or charter,
Stephen Smith, Master.
AN entire {few vessel, ninety-three tons burthen, com
plettlf rotjnd, and may lie sent to sea without any
npenfe. Fdr terms, apply oh board, at Clifford's wharf,
•r to JOSEPH ANTHONY & CO.
NOV. 9 6§
For Sale.
-jeag"- The Ship CHARLOTTE,
A flout veflel, about >jo tons bur
"" wc " f° un d may be sent to
JStwrTi k* at i f" 13 " expence.'
Apply to
Joseph Anthony Arid Co. ...
Nor. 8. dx."
FOR SALfe,
7 HE SHIP M ART,
SAMUR i- PARKER, MA«tbr,
Two hundred tons burthen. Acrlv to
— A f\ 1 .VUjM f , litfi.
If the MARY is hot fold in a few days, she will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Oflober 31. d
r-£">-v For Nfew-York,
I The Schooner Mary,
SSftSfl Tnfiah Douglafs. matler ; will fail in a
few days, and take freight very low. Apply to
'Joseph Anthony & C&,
Nov. 3. 6
Just arrived, and will this day be lan
ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at Chefnut
llreet wharf*
25 Tons befi Rujfia Clean HEMP,
56 Tens old Sable flat IRON',
sbo Coils best Rultia CORD AGE, affortcd fire%
400 Pieces brown Ruflia SHEfcTINfCS,
100 Bolts Ruflia DUCK,
240 Pieces Ravens do.
no ftalf-down feather htds, and
A few rfecet assorted
FOR SALE ST
Joseph Anthony and Co.
Th* above mentioned B R I 6
few days, and tak: freight on
tfrrns for BoOon or Salem, (or
o passage, apply oft boafd or as abovt
October 31. d
1 * ' + ,
For London,
Th ship William Perth,
, master. Will fail with »U
*" :S - K?J " 3f: «= iSS cenveicnt fpe<d. For freight or passage
»f ply to the Captain <n boa'rd, or to
Jefe and Robert Wain.
November id, 1796 d
•, -
Rr Liverpool,
.-The/hipDOMINICKTEZRr,
lacob Dihart, Miftcr.
Haia part of her cargo engaged.—
for fright or passage apply to the mas
ter onboard, it the \i har. of tht fub
feribers, or,
*)effe if Robert Wain.
Nov. 7. , - ' d
lor Liiton,
ijßC«fcr TheDanifhharquc BENEV«NTUiiA,
Ssmum. Stub, Mailer,
A good vessel of aho'it two hundred
»nn« For freight' or pjfTagc
ip^lytft
JcJe & RobertWaln.
Nov. 71 d.
~, n r . rf« r -rr-' ill M j
For Ciharter,
The Ship JO HNB U. KEL T,
Ayrf.s STOc'kl«Y, 1 after. ,
An ejcelfent live-oak art cetlar hnilf
of about 3000 barrels. hrffrcn,~-Ap-
Jefft & Robcf Wain.
Ifovy d. '
*-
FOR LONI)dN t *
The capital (hfp CERES,
J fail foou For freight or passage
M apply to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
a John Vaughan,
' ;f September 10 ■ Front-ftrcct.
The Creditors of George Meade, Esq.
h to meet at the Citv-Taveru on Monday
e%'Ri:ng the 14th inft. at Six oMock, on l.ufincfsl of
im(?l>rtance to themselves; _it_js t " refoi# cXfcflcd
even' ene will attend.
If GEORGE LATIMER, }
WILLIAM BELL, > Assignees.
PETER HLIGHT, 3
Philadelphia, loth Nov. 1796. d
Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarcl,
Jt Excellent Halifa* Salmun in bbs«.
47 hbls. prime Coffee,
Best Boston Beef, ,
Codfilh in hds.
Sperraaccti Candles,
Spermaceti, and ? OIL
Northern J
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior
quality.
A few boxes extellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lisbon Wine.
A few sacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muslins.
FOR SALE BT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Oflober 31. d
t Q — —
*• Printed Calicoes.
John Miller, jun. & co.
Have received per the William Penn, in addition to
their own afforment,
A of twenty, trunks of Calicoes, ele
gant London patterns; alfoafew cases of handsome
Buttons —Which* will be fold at a (hort credit, on very
rcifonahle terms, by the package only.
oa. 14. dtf
"y Irish. Linens, &c.
Imported per the Jhips Glnfeoiv, from Dublin, Liber
ty, from C.or.'t, and 61 ir; Mentor, from Belfa/i,
" 4-4 and 7-8 Wide" IRISH LINENS,
In whole and half boxes,
r _ Assorted from I Id. to 48. sterling—Also 5-4 wide
, Sheetings, and low priced yarn and worsted Hose.
Oti Hand,
7-g Wide Lawn*.
( Diapers and Table-Cloths
A few boxes Tickens and Checks
_ A few bales flannels
Cork and Belfafl Sail Cloth, Nos. x and 6
1$ Bo*»i r 6 by 8,
10 Ditto > Window Glass, < 7by 9, »
; Ditto J C 8 bf 10. .
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
o drawback, and will be difnafed of by the packaac_on—
riSlMiauie tuiii^.—^
« James, Clibborn «EngnTh,
No. 6, N. Front-street.
loth nio. T9th. dtf
10 hogsheads St. Croix Rum,
S Pipes Vinegar,
For Sale, by
Erekiel Hall,
lio. ao, Penn Street.
Nov, 7-
- Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
H:ts received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and striped Spanilh Swanfdowa
Clouded Ermiuats and Molerttins
Striped do. and de.
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed FlorinettS j
t)o. Caftinets and Cafiimeres
Superfine pvirftcd Quiltings, newest patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general assortment of Dry ,
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season.
_ November j. dtf
Just Landing,
At South-Jlreet wharf, from on board the /lip Sedg
. ley. Captain Hodge, from St. Peterfourg,
;e The following Goods :
Reffia Sail Dock, firft quality. I
Do. Sheeting do. >
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Crash. (
Do. Would Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to the lb. of the
Enghlh size. ,
* Do. White Candle Tallow. j
IX" White Socp in small boxes.
- Do. Cordage of fine yarn. ;
Ravens Duck.
lfinglafs, jft and [2nd fort.
Horse Hair uncurlcd. t
Ruflia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron. (
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk. >
St. Petersburg Clsan Hemp. j
> For Sale by j
Philips, Cramond, & 6e. (>
P n.
Sheridan's Dictionary,
1/IS SIXTH FDITIOW,
Is this Day Publiflied,
BY IV. TOUNG, MILLS 3 SO N,
( orncr of Second and Chefnut streets,
In one large ovo. •volume, price 7 dollars.
I,ANr^r P F LF i 11 l D : C " noNARY of the F.NGLHH ~
, LANGUASE both w,th >egard to found and meaning,
one mam objed of whith to cflablilh a plain and per
manem Standard of Pronunciation. Te which is prefixed 1
% rroloaial Grammar.
BT THOMAS WKMD/IN, /». M.
0*ob« n, tt&3
For Sale,
By Jehu Hollingfworth, Iff Co.
35 hhds. Well-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
e j Barrels best Indigo, and*, .•*
r A few thoufuid bvftiels of Turk's lHand fait.
oa. n. d -
OLD
• London Particular Madeira Wine,
r In pipe?, hoglheadj and qtiarter-rafks,
' Landing thi* dav at Chefnut llreet Wharf, acd
1 » for f-lc by
Joseph Antheny & Co.
Nev. I. : d 1
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER b 5 Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from 1 a ir.ch cables down
to rope of 1 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, frort) Hull, and entitled to drawback. J
Stpt. S7. ~
TO BE SOLD,
A LOT of GROUND, 164 feet 7 inches front on South
f Water-street, and bounding on the Delaware about the
fame width, with a wharf thereon in good repair. On the
fide adjoining I'un alley, is a urge and well built
dwelling house, and counting hotife, communicating with
each other, 47 feet Wide, a spacious kitchen, and other
well planned accommodations, and below ihefe r. stack of
stores, 61 feet in front, by 93 feet in lfcngth, built a few
years ago; on the remainder of the lot on V.'ater-ftreet,
there are two ancient brick dwellings, a Gosper's shop, &
a frame ftofe, now occupied by Mr. Alexander Tqd, and
bounds adjoining the ftore»of the heirs of the late Joseph
_ Wharton. It will be better dcfcribeVl by drafts and pans
of the ground, and buildings, to be-feen at JOHN WIL- .
COCKij's compting house, on the premises, ;.ri4&f vrflSm
purticnlan as <ala may be obtained.
The whole will be fold together, or detached at may
best suit the purchaser.' Nov. 5 §
For Sale,
e A Three-story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
E\ street, between Front and Second jlrsets, in which
' Meifrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on bufi^efs.
PofTeflion will ht given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
Apr?l at. 5
Sales of" India Goods.
> The Cargo «f the ship Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTiNC OF
ALtrge and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
CO FTON and SILK. GOODS.
AMOMO WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Muslins.
Dorcas, ttfe. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boiet and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Salt by
Willings & Francis,
i_ , >-» XX Penn Stici:—
JTBTT« 8 -
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAP IAIN CAT HCART, from Alicant and Lis
bon, landing at tht l'abfcriliers wharf—
■a.B I'ipes of Brandy
18 Bales of 9pani& woo!
3 do. of Arrnifred
7030, Hulhels of best Lisbon Salt
89 Boxea of litmbut ' .
For file by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hogflieads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the ship Dominicjt Jerry, Capt. De Han, ,
from Kin^fton.
Sept. 13. > '
— —— *
A CApItAL ASSORTMENT OF '
DRY GOODS.
John Miller, jun & Co.
F.xclufive of their own Importation now opening ;
Have received by the William Penn, Caroline and D.'ana 1
CONSIGNMENTS, <
Which coftiprize a capital assortment to open a '
Dry Goods Store, 1
r —Amongst them are—
Commoji, fup«r and fuperfine Cloths,
Plain, twill'd and ftrip'd Coatings,
Baizet and Flannels,
Point, rose and u'uffil Blankets, J >
■ Plain and puntea Caffimeres, 1
Swanfdowns,
. , Printed Calicoes, t
Scotch Threads,
Hoiiery.
They will be fold either in whole, or in part, by the .
package, on terms wh,ch render them an objefl worthy of '
attention to purahafers. dtf 21
L AND I N G, "
Out of different vessels from England, and for sale
by the fuljertbers on renfonahle terms,
Superfine and common clotht, and caflimers
P.ibbed and striped do. do.
Blankets, mottled green and silk rugs. - h
Superfine bine, Claret, and common coatings,
Kerseys, Bear-skins, plains and Halfthicks,
Swanikms, Serges and Flannels,
Writifh Ingrain Carpeting,
Hatsafforted in of 12 doz. each
Chocolate dilntles, printed Callicoes and Handkerchiefs,
scarlet Cardinal, and Starlet Snail,
Virn, and Cotton hosiery,
Velvets, Cordutoys, &c. See.
Bi. and drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality. 0
A <r " d ' ICd- naili > and f'Ting pans, fl
of hidfa r» m « nt ° c ;[ imongcrry ' tutle ry and a variety I
0! India cotton, and fiJk go^fds.
Thomas Joshua Fijher. t ;
A if. l , 5, Dock-fttfect,
Alio by she Glasgow from Dublin,
'".io" nr' 4 Llrl , ens ® (r ° rte d in bones of 30 pieces, 6
do. Brown, Glazed Linnen. a
oa - I? ; dtf. li
To be Sold, ~ '
The Time of a smart, adive Lad
Who has Eleven years to frrve
Enquire it No. j«, Sovth Front street. f 3
Oolober it. 13
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. .S, CHESNUT STI\EET,
Have Imported In the late veiTefs from Europe, &c.
AND HAVE 1 OR SALE,
A general affortnsent of GOODS, fuitabif to the feafos—
Amongst which are,
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
Flain and twill'd COATINGS,
Rofeftriped and i>oint BLANKETS,
FLANNEJ-S and*BMSES,
HATS allotted in cases,
IRISH LINENS,
INDIA GOODS, fcneraJW t
A Coafifpfed Invoice 6i
Comprifinjr n capital aJTortmemto npeii aflorf—inclu
ding Thirty Casts of NAIL 4 *. This iitvoite wiii be fold
entire on very advantageous terms.
September 20. d
Wm. Holdernksse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
~A Well Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, an the very
lowed terms ;
Amongji which ore , *
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cot(oni,-new
patterns , _
Ditto'Fnrniture ditto
Ditto Dimity . , „
Tamboured, Boot, and Jaconet MuCipt,- ,
Ditto in Gold and Si'vor
Ditto very fihe ,
Mantuats of the crft quality
Silk ard Cotton Hoficrjl^'
Umbrellas of the aborted
Jritfi I.iiiaM.-t! r rvl::ic. and TriGfe Liiicrff
and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets alTorted—tec. ice.
Oisob«r 2<S. d
Loft Last Evening,
At Ricketts's Amphitheatr-, {supposed to be taken by
some villain out of a gentleman'spotket)
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; thcee notes
of hand ofßofsand Simfon, No. 304, 305 and,3o6,\ dv
tea Ilthlafl August, payable 60 dafs after date, tifhhe
order of Paul Siemen, together for 5250 dolltn j »n or ji/r
of Mrs. Ano N acpherfon, from PaufcSiemen, on Lsch
lin Mac Neil, Esq. at Por't-au-Prifiee, for 106 dollars; bp
fides several letters and papers of iwj us. Kiikto the propria
tor) The notes of hafid and orSsr afc without cndorle- > .
meat. EIGHTY DOLLARS is offt.e4 te
any person who will discover S4?d ftcuVe th'e thief, asd/
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the a\ove
oneu notes and papers at No. 119, corriff tff Front I*artd1*artd
Mulberry Greets. d Oct. 11. '
The Creditors of Scott and M'Michtfel,
formerly merchants of this city, arid who failed in the
year 1763, or 1764, (and frOm Whom the jpur
chafed bills of exchange to amount of several hundred
pounds tterUng, which have lain r>y him ever finefc,) *fe
rcqueftfcd, evirt man ot th*m that is lining, to meet at
the City-Tavern on Tucfday, the ijth'oTNovembtr re*t,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, in order to oblige Churlas
Coi, formerly of this oity, now of New-Jersey, and John
Bayard, formerly of said city, and fyeaier of the House
* r.a ..iifwicki^fcw-Jerfey,
assignees ot said Scott 8t M'Michapl, to con\c forward aad
pay over the monies they have had in their hands belong
tng to the creditors thele ji or 33 years. Some years a
go the creditors were called together ; Mr. Cox appear
ed in behalf of himfelf and Mr. Bayard, arid alfegcil tV.t
they were apprehensive they might be brought into tro'ii
ble*if they parted with the. money (wh?ch I apprehend is
some thousands,) as his Britannic Majefly had a debt dtie
him sot government bills: it was however agreed by the
creditor! met, tli it the afiignee*. feoul 1 take the opinion of
couniel; they did so, and it was that they would be fafe
in dividing the money among the creditors. I m-gtd Mr.
Co* td bring thebufmefs to a finklclnfe ; his ac,fwer w as,
it would be but a trifling sum ; my reply was, if ever so
, :rifiing, I would have my proportion of it. It has how
ever lain over. -
I therefore h®pe the creditors -will now corae forward
and oblige the a£sghses tojdividt whatever thtyhave, and
they onght to pay intersfl too,
George Meade.
Philadelphia, ad November, 1796. df 1 jtT*
The Creditors of Clement Biddle & Co.
are reqttefted to meet at the City-Tavern op MondayJhe
14th inft.—ia order to oblige tiicf assignees to a fcttlcpi«nt
of thc.it affairs, which have lain these twelve years:
the fsbferiber's demand is for a returned bill of i,oool. ficr
ling, damages ao per cent, and interest. j , .
George Meade.
Philadelphia, 3d November, 1796.
N. B Charles Biddle'*
name byo miflafec
as an aflignee. It appeari he is only aa agent apftoiutod
by them.
The foregoing advertisements are a good
assignees. I could give a further one if it nuas necejfary
Wine.
30 Pipes of the best quality, and fit for immediate
use, just imported i* the schooner I.ucy from Madeira
and for &le by
"John Craig, .
No. 12, Dock-street.. •
"ho has for Sale,
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes, Jwjg&eads, and qr. ca&».
Window Gkifs.
S«gars, &c. Sec.
X'wo trunks of the best Cotton an(J Silk
Hofierv.
mwftf
The Elephant
TIS jRETUIbfSD FROM BALTtMORF
HE public are re/peQfully informed, thai
this animal is to be leen every day, ftora g
o'clock tn tho motnmg till fun down, in Market
,®6 ' folrth fide ' Third and
Fourth-ft*eet».
,h "" ,cry d -
C 5" At thi request of many otfrfong it vvjll be
excited oa evening* from t0 eirht o'clocJc,
h a each.— room will be well
November 7. . •
SALT PETRE. ~
A large quantity of Double-Refiued Sartre fen'
sale at No. ay, South Third-street. c
Novirmber .5, ' ~Pantheon,
Jh'D RICKETTS's AMPHITHEATRE.
For Equestrian and Stage performances, Corner of
Chcfnut and Sixth-ilreets.
THIS EVENING, Saturday, November 11,
Will be piefented,
A Grand and General Display of
Pleasing and Novel Entertainments ;
To commence with
Manly Feats in Horfemanjhip,
By master Franklin, (from Aflley's Amphitheatre,
Ixmdon) Mr. F. Kickrtts, and Matter Hutchins, a
joung American, ( a child only 6 years of age) will,
Jor the firfl time, perform Handing on i single horse
in full speed.
MR. FRANKLIN,
From the Royal Circus, London,
\v;n malce his third appearance in the Eqiicfirian
Jpepartment; and, in .particular, Cjir th.« night, be
v.-11l carry maftcr Hutchins /landing on his hands,
the hCrlef in full speed. ■
Clown to the Horfemmfljip, Mr> SULLY.
Ground and Lofty Tumbling,
By mr. Frank'in, mr. J' - , liicketts, mafttr Hutchins,
maflci' Franklin and rar. Sully.
Clown to the Tumbling, mr. SPINACUTA.
The Horfeminfbip to conclude, for this night, with
The Taylor Riding to Brentford,
By mr. Ricketts,
On the Hunter and Road Horse.
[The Hunter is a remarkable fine horse, and was at
the battle of Guilford Court-House in N. Carolina J
And, by Desire of the Indian Chiefs,
The whole to conclude with the Grand Serious Pan
tomime, inder the immediate dire&ion of ,
MefTrs. Sully and Spinacuta,
The DEATH of CAPT. COOK,
In the lfland of Owyhee, in the Pacific Ocean.
With the Original Mufir, Dances. Decorations, &c. '
The Scenery Painted by Mr. Shnydore. j
Captain Cook, (of the Resolution) Mr. Slrfly |
Fir/l Lieutenant, Mr. Ricketts ,
Midflsipman, Mi. F. Ricketts
Sailors and Marines, Supernumeraries
Tereboo (Kivg of Owyhee) Mr. Tonrpkmi
Ptrea, (the favorite iover of Lmai) Mr. During \
Pried, Mr. During '
Warriors, Supernumeraries. 1
Koah, (revengeful lover of Kmai) Mr. Spinacuta t
Bmai, (the Kings daughter) Mrs. Spinacuta j
female Islanders, ? Mrs " T «mpkjns, Mrs. During, |
) and Miss Robinson | t
In a<sl I. the method of courtship and ce
remony in Owyhee, with a beautiful View of the '
lUand.
Manner of a Single Combat, with Battle Axes.
In ad 11. the arrival of Captain Cook in the (hip
Resolution; ha reception bv the King and Warrior*
of Owyhee ; a War Dauce by the Natives , their
I reparation for War, and manner of Sacrifice, with
An exact representation ,
Of the Death of Captain Cook, by <j
the Warriors. u
In afl 111. the Funeral Ceremonies made use of 11
it Owyhee, with a ProctCion of the Natives to the "
Monument of Captain Cook, with Military Honors. ft
The whole to conclude with tl
An awful representation Of a Burn- e,
ing Mountain. u
. — ~ ,JJ
Mr. RICKETTS takes this opportunity of inform- W
ing the Ladies and G-ntlemen who attend the R : ding- rt
■School, that he has, at conlidcrable expense, engaged
Mr. Franklin, to give lefl'ons in the art of riding and tt
hunaging Horses, as ke finds it impoffiblc to attend to jo
it himfelf, in confequcnce of a variety of bafinefs C a
which he it at present eugigtd i n . ' (^
» The Ladies a«d Gentlemen who feeure feats iti te
the day time, are requefled to attend punfloally at 7, re
at the performances are so arranged as to conclude bv °'
100 clock—the doors will open at 6. J
€? Box. 7s. 6d.—Pit, ~s. 9 d. ;;
Tickets to be had of Mr. FVird, at the ticket office in .<
V-heiniit-Itreet, ten to three o'clock each day.
0- Silver Tickets, to admit for the faafon, to be had
by applying to Mr. Ricketts at the Pantheon, or at Oel- "
Jers's Hotel. „
j ° f Pe , r f ormarltf t0 bc Monday, Wedncf
«U.y» lhurldav and Saturday.
. ' ]
SWANN'S,
Riding School, Horse Academy & Infirmary
Adjoining the Public Square. M„ ket Street 3 "
T. SWANN b( '
RETURNS hi. fineere thank, tothofe gentlemen by whom T
«*ha, been employed, <1«, ,„ s |,i 5 refidmce in thU City, and th
W,himfelf that the f«ref, ol his eHo, ts, the n,n,erous, op
obstinate and dangerou:. d fcaf iin Horse., i„ wh.ch he hai w,
%een eontuVrf, logethrr wuh his rnodera'c ch;>r £ „, v. ,11 f c . .
cure their future favors at»d rcc®mißcadatJon.
He now begs leave to lIIIOIM ilirm and the public at J a r»e co
1 ? tpacjous and commodious premises. erected tor [he pe
purposes above defcr.bed arc o ulll for the lecep.lo„ G t pupils L
of eitner sex, wU wtfh to b,i u n,u£lui in ihe°'wt of rE ° r '
and the right method ol .he lr horses, so a slo rid e wc
thtm with cafe, elegance, and fafetv—their hoifc* w.il k. R(
•a.etunv and expediuoufty troke, for every purpofc aru^
>nad.: okedieut to ihe will ot the riders ; (hr ~ •
which are Unit up in thun, will be unlold.d by a,t t!l
I'" 1 6 ivin « 10 lhat »«W« animal t*
W lch p,o r ,dc " ce so bouni -
""Viiror'eno which the horse i, °[
lisWe «i„ he treated according to the rules of art, confirmed ,hi
»y long ai.a repealed cxpcrli net. cn
The utility <>f the above iuitiiution has never lyen qncll.on ess
lhat u has long been wanted in ibis city evcrv vr ,i •
?f T - swa »» bU
the veterinary art, fohc.ts and ,elu s upon ,he fuppouof tha, tbl
public (which he u ever anxious w lining) to cnab: c him to of
b,".g,t toperfeW The ,de» o) a f U b.er,p..,on for"ha, Z
purpofc has been h.nted by lever al gentleman, who win, , Q
promote the iiifliuiion-tlie imoum of each fubfcrip', on lo art
W retUrjred hy fervenanyof thedepanmenu hrnr.teffl "f
Lt ■ r " e ° f c B rs aa»d in hi, haud bltt ' de .
fubk, iptlOß 1S now openi J: . d (ht figu<lurcs Qf • de 1
aMe RC nt!cmeu already oUaintd. He there ■ J C
•. zts&z** 2
N B. Horses are properly prepared lor thofr I j 0111
G n kmen who with to U mftruiiecl. L «l'«a«d
Ntv. 5.
• . ' . uh&f. tie
£r Any of the Inhabitants
who uj iv be difuofdfl in ,
Ger^ fcrr»en with and LODGING few
-pX >SS£* I&s&sdl "»
PhUidtl'phia, November ° S ' CLAXI ™. wit
and
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MK. Fekno,
IN yottr paper of jrefltrrfajr I read this fentcree
in a piece signed a Ftdcraliji :
" Here we might offer exculpatory remarks eon
" cerninjf the d'tspofitions, which a concurrence t>f
[ S . " circumjlatuei like these might nattirallv excite in the
' " bosom of Secretary Jcjferfan ; perhaps we might
" fully eflablifh his mfhit on the »ccafion."
Tllo' this very ft tidied fentencc k ait Fully couch
lg' a ' ed in the Ftmbiguous, cautions, and appYopriati lan.
vill, ytiajre of the writer, enough is said to discover a
orfe timid willingness to becomc the apokgift of Mr.
Jefferfon, and to vindicate hisconjudl, in reference
to Genet's intrigues. That this is the drfign of
the writer is explained by his introdueiirtr the l'ro
'1" clamation nf the king'of England against France,
|K i s and the order yf 6IJ» November, agaihft our tom
mercc, inimedittely previous li> his remark, which
he begins with " Here we mi;;ht octet," &c. rsft
injftli t cxctilpstion o( Mr. jefferfon on those fafls.
Why does not this writer come boldly out and vin
infj dicate hie favorite ? The public would be inftrtift- I
ed by his exculpatory remarks, and delighted at 1
the fame time with the ingenuity of a writer ca- 1
nth pabie of juttifying the condudt of Mr. Jefferfon in '
July, 1792, by a proclamation and an order, not J
' iffned 'till the OP.oler and November following—Let
him be plain and explicit, and if he can prove to <
sat the public fatisfaftion that any aft of a foreign gov- '
J ernment, however hostile towards us, can juftify <
our Secretary of State in furremdering to a foreign !
, agent our felf government and independence, then '
an- it will be acknowledged, to borrow the exprcfiions
of the writer, that the opponents of Mr. Jeffer- 1
" son have unconsciously fleepefl their pens in the r
" acidulated gill of felt-deceiving prejudice." F
This writer affects to speak well of Mr. Pinclnry,
See. who is underfiood, he tells us, to be set up by the F
friends of Mr. /tdams ; and that no objeflions have /
been made to him by the aiitifederal and jacobin par-
ty ; for very good reasons, because they dare not ?
make any objedt ions to that virtuous anddiflinguijh- '
ed citizen ; it is trne that the friends of order aud 1
good government and its government have set up n
Mr. Pinckney with Mr. Adams and that the friends P
of Jefferfon can fay nothing againll him : but does 11
1 not this writer, who is in the secrets of the other c
party, know that they don't intend to vote for
tg, . him, thnt their trtket is JiJJerson and Burr, and ''
ce-' t>la .' t,l ' S " as a K rted u P on at a meeting of the pat- n
h c 'y be^ore riling of Congress ? p
AN ENQUIRER. »
"P fOR THI GAZETTE OFTHZ UNITED STATES. tC
,r * _ * tl
Mr. Fen no, tl
THE Minifterof tfce French Republic, in his "
late communication to our Secretary of State, has _
y declared that France means to consider hcrfelf as to •'
us, in the fame situation as in the year 1793. He pl
of intimates the discontent of the French nation at the I?
le eonduft of our government, for not having been Ul
lufficiently friendly, and there are people, calling
themselves Americans, who are ever ready to re-echo
[- every attach upon our jtittice and national character,
which eomes from that quarter. Thus, in the year lil
Genet, at the r->" . ■ Huftm 0.-. th
wcre drying every mark of friendfhip for Francc 11
- ™ del r attacked the President and the government
, d for unfriendly conduct towards France, and then kl
d the fame ap»Jlate citizens, like a well trained pack of
0 joined in the cry. Yet even Jefferfon, in 37
ca P aclt y. was compelled to give a flat denial to all na
their charges. The following cxtrtft from his let
ft tcr . of ; 6 ' h Augull, 1793, applying to the now > c
re ?'™ d charges of citizc. Adet, as well as to those
Y °4 hl « P r edecefTor, Genet, will convince ever, the 4 l
Jacob,nes .(though they are not cxpeded to avow ilr
it) that •' for all the things we have done for France ,ri
•« (as Jefferfon expresses if) her miniflers reward ni
d " us by endeavors to excito discord and diflruit be-
I. " tween our citizens and those whom they batfe en
" truued with their governb)
f " AN AMERICAN. oti
_ Extract of Mr. J-.fferfon's letter to Mr. Mortis
i6th August, 1793. '
" Confcions, on our part, of ihe fame friendly
and fineere d.fpofittons, we can with truth affirm
both for our nation and government, that we have
n never omitted a reasonable occasion of m a niF,fti n „ P "
d tliem. /or I will not confidei as of that ctiErafter T
~ opportunities of sallying f ort h from our port, to
;« waylay, rob, and muider defencelefs merchant. ,nd V \
others, who have oone us no injury, and who were r
, coming to trade with us in the confidence of our
c peace and amity The violation of all ,he law. of
1 moral,ty wh.ch bind mankind together ,hc
• vvould be offering to a j„ft nat
V Kecurrmg then.nly to recent things, after so afflic p,i '
f 2 « SUh we recoiled, will, fat fh ,
K /T 7 ' t*»oyears, by unceajing exertions, we
~ pa,dupseven years,arrearages andinjl a l men ts of our
- debt to trance, which the inrfficacy cf our firit fm-m Rrf
s lfrr ent S rcd ,o b —l-iK (i 0!
1 ,hat "" ft,n to 'he entire fulf,l mtm <)f * ' P ar
engagements,we have facilitated to Mr. Genet tl ►
- effect of the in(lalment6 of tht prefmt ttar 1*
, s ble him to fend relief to his fellow-citizens in France n
t threatened with famine; that iit the fir ft ° ' van
t 'heinfurreaion threate.ed the co! ( nTof imt
,St • Do " Un g r '' "'Ppp'd forward to their relief In], '
, arms and money, takmg .freely on ouifdvcs the risk " CUr
, of au unauthorized aid, when delav virouhi ka t llcc
ab.hues the wretched fugitive, f rom The £ro dor
t phe-of rise principal town of that colony, „-ho Tf d ° ,!
: capmg from the sword, and fl ame , by
' ,h, t 7 ' hem J e ! v '»,«»»B naked .ndhouWrf,'; S
I out food or friends, money or other means tl' ' r to c
cult let left and abfordsd in the depth of 'th -r"
trelles ; the rxckfive admifiion to fell here \tr ' r "£'
«s made by France on her envies, i
war, though unjlipulated in our treaties and , f
Ad mkroun ot i n ,j, al rf Mer ■J vUn ' add
. we believe, the spirit manifefied by the ba^
, jury .» l ''eir proceeding, ,g a i M , those wl,„ had a.M I
ed the enemies of France with arms and im, I Grt
of war ; the cxprcffion of attachment to V Cmer " s
with ivhich Mr. Genet wa, welcomed on h" " a "° n *
; and journey, from (bah to north, and Bril
ro&BiAKAKCi under his o&ast usurpations av»
5, OUTRAGES OF THE' LAWS AND AUTHORITY <it
our country, do not bespeak th# partialities intima
ted in his letters, and for these things he rewarps
nee us by endeavours to excite discord and dillrufl, be
tween our citizens and tbofe whom they have en
on- trusted with their government, between the different
of branches of govetument, between our nation and
the his. But none of these things we hope will be
»ht found in his power." -
ch- F»r the Gaiette or the United States.
an- ■
r a PHOCION—No. XXL
/[ r MANY other specimens might be furnifhed of
3C e the partial complexion of Mr. Jefferfon's cc/mmer
of rial report : a few of them, in addition to the t.:£ls
ro _ already slated', will more than fuffire to (hew that
ce, '* e gratification of certain anti-national prejudices i
, m _ was more an object with that Work than the pro
[t-b motion of our national prefperity.
• ft. The firft. ctrcumllarice which strikes us, in read
}s. ing the introductory letter to the speaker of the
in- reprefentativos on transmitting the report, is the
ft. bringing tip the report only to the trmc, when
a t tilings, as the reporter fays, were in their fettled
ca - order, that is the summer cf 1792, (when the
in monarchy of France terminated), and yet, in the
10 t fame letter, informing the reprefrntatives that
France had proposed to enter into a ne*U treaty of
to commerce witisthe United >States r on liberal ,
iv- »-nd had, in the me.in time, relaxed femp of her
[fy commercial restraints ; nil of which fufls were sv b- i
rr n SEQUENT to the period at which he hdcl os s d hit ]
en report. ,
m Now, as he had fixed upon a ceitaln period, at
. r . which it was proper to cli>fe his report, for the 1
(, e reason he had afligned, namely, becaufc it was ims
poflible to dtferibe all'the changes which the war t
,y t had occasioned, aud because the report was pro- r
) Je perly adapted to a time, when things were in their j:
vc Jetthd order, he certainly ought rro: 10 have intro- i
r _ duced the commercial measures of France, jultt« t]
3t cuent to that period; or if he did, he ought like p
I. wife tohaveflited all the changes which bad fubfe
l(j quently taken place in the meafuie* of the other *
,p nations, he ought also have ftatrd that since that si
period, France had brele her cxifling treaty with j (1
eg 11s; inftir.d of which, he rcmaiks, that to have! g
»r endeavored to have described nit these changes would "
}r have been asendlefs as useless, since thefcenes would t(
lt j have been (hifting while under description. He e
r . mast have well known that the liberal treaty ti
proposed by France required that we should be- r
come a party in the war; he mull have well .
known that this proposal of a new treaty ciroft al- w
together out of the then exijling war, and was in
therefore no more a circumstance connefled with b
the settled order of things, than any other war mea■ ft
j 5 sure of the other belligerent power. tf
Here in the very introduction then of his report, pi
0 fee departs altogether from the plan laid down, on if
f purpose to impress cungrefs with a belief that
e France was difpefed to a liberal treaty with fp
n us, when he knew (what Genet's cbliflied UJruc- w
e soon "0 'hat the fine qua non of this pi
, 0 liberal treaty was our £kg aging in the war. ar
, . fpeoi'ying the duties imposed on our produc- ej
r t ions by G. B. the report Bated that our tobacco, for n;
- jhew con fu n> ption, paid lAfteilmg the pound, th
, tu,l *>rn anrl fvAife j fltavy vjyjimw vj cosies" at
t Uon . TFOTTie negle£led to Rate, what he mull have th
„ known, that if our tob.cco paid ,/ 3 , ,l lc tobaCto th
, °\ countries paid nearly ,relit that sum. u.
3/6.-He was direfled "to report to congress the
, nature and extent of the privilege.r and reltriftions re
- " °"f commercial.ntercourfe wirh other nations;"! an
V > ct ' „" on to a ver y important article of ex- th
e port, he Sates the 1/3 duty imposed on our pro- na
6 <uftion, and omits a duly nearly treble that sum, m;
r imputed on a firr.Ur prod.iftion of all other com,, ab
lr i'»/ I , l ! ,OU^ I ,be L vc, 7 book of rate, which fnr- th
j n.M l„m with the one f.« mull h,« exhibited an
tnc other, ciole by v$ fide.
. This supprejfa'n was attempted .0 be jußified, m.
b> alleging that the h.gher duty on the tobacco of tai
other nations was not worth noticing, because G. re,
Bn am imported no tobacco from auy o.her coun- wc
try than the United States—Then the duty of , /v% us
on our tobacco could wo, kno injury t0 us / th J> oui
wit improper, in the Arcretary, to notice the heavy wo
expences of collcS, because, there being
petition o( foreign tobacco, these heavy expences, tin
fumer . if there was no tobacco, but that of the pl»
Umted States, cor Wed in Great-flHtain, in that U
cafe, the duties would not injure us, but the con- I «tnl
tLTf ,'h tbere »'« « compel- I me;
then tobacco of other countries with our's, Re
then the preference given to our', by the 'tifcriml Dri
TZJ&gZS-**** f
wb iC h 1, MJ u z"Zi z
grefs to make the proper inftnnces. Thisomlf the
the more extraordinary, as i„ sol Xr
parts of the report, where he (late* a cothmerci-l Mr
regulation of Great Britain, which is to oth
t 'is counuj, heenceavors ,0 detraS frcn, it bv ber
fume quahheation ; thus, after mentioning an J '
vantageous diftinftion in favor of our barton he
immediately adds, «of which artide, however' ic 1
J»»ot produce .enough for our own use *,» 2 cir
cum (lance well known ,0 every one, and vcr
neccffaiily miroduced ; thus, again, after havimr
slated that our exports to Great-Britain and '
dominions were twictas great as to France and her " a "
dominions, he takes care to oua/ifv thf« - ! cafe
by endeavoring to prove that the greater par Ncf
what the fcimer received fiom us vvas rr e i tcra
to other countries. " fC eX P orted i cha,
With this disposition thus to aua'ifv j-\ ' bow
rage, every advantage, would it noS I t'
ss
cou n trie^irevTar W l ithftinding<Xporfed !t t0 oth "
Britain, amounJd"o GrMt "
"pwaros ot to, coo dollars. nunc
Avr — .vcflel*pay f M Kght SntJ {r - , .
ror m„c .Kan „ F v.d by British f ni p Sj '"J*. d «',
,m »- i >o " '~£. ,£ London f but he o *ir, the folloSL" the
kßps ml circumftanees, ift. That the «fr, a S """*
, be- a Britift (hip pays in our port, more ,1"^' whicl >
• cn- merican il„p, i s preater than , h , ' oan A.
:rent an Amencsn (hip pays ii, the Rnr.fl. wl >icl»
and than a Brrtifil fh.'p ; 2 d|y. That our m ° rt
11 be a better footing in the ports of G*at.B&P
"'I "f any other nation, for while th™ 2,1
thr iwi.pt of f„ ml „ th(it
dHtic, imr (hips are exempt from them. "*
Hi' lays R4 eat (frel's upon the excluf'in„""r
vessels from the British Weft-lodie, hu " *
los altogether nnticmur their free a.u;ffi, • f om »»
«r >*** i«i». 'a,
'; w CB >°y h y 'he admission of our vt-flVly into ,h T" We
that Welt Indies ; but he is file,,,
i,C " i ?(ft of tnc » «c!ufion fr, m the French Eall l"j- '
pro- In extolling the liberal policy of Fra£ f , ''
the United States, he entirely overlooked thi 4
l f lc "'Stes that our woods are free ofa
the Great-Britain, whilst tl.ofe of other co U .„ r ; 7 "
hat only some small duties ; when, on , nquirv " p3y
of peared that instead of small w,? ' a r*
ms,. other natrons paid very high duties.'
her , There are some other rrrori of smaller m „
?" J"' 1 ' 6 ort ! . v - , ' ith w oull have bee,, overlnobi
bts had not the fried, of the author made fuchaj
rade of it s merits. •
at In the firft p: ge, in the lift 0 f expor( , .
mar y importance, ftip S are infencd, L t M X
m annexed, though the proposed objefl of ,h« lift j!
>ar to the value of each article: theartrVlr v
ten
eir pains taken, in the cornle of three years' \ n .J,7
ro- i.. ..W ; ,h« U..1 |rf, i„ SR-.-5-
//. denceof carelefTnefs and inattention not l 0 > "
U peeled in a work, pretending to luch accuracy. "
in the 14th page, »n reeoraraentlinir the fvftrm
ler «f free trade, he remarks that, » v.ould even a
>»t single nation begin with the United Slate, this fy.
ne,r .°' fr , ce commerce, it would be advisable to be-
Z ?/" " w ! ,u that l-e then gravely cd d«_
I d fiace nIS one by one only that it can be ex ended
j 10 8,1 ' lo be s ure » 't rauft be, one by one ; *h«
e . vcr ex P to make tie .ties with all oilier na.
ty t.ous at the fame instant ? However .me the re.
>e- mark, it is ccrtamly a very frivolous one.
ell -In the 16th page, he <• «e,e the odAK,
»1- which is the common property of th. open to the
as isdiiflry of all, so that eveiy peVfott and velTtlfhonld
th be free to take employment wherever it could he
a■ found, 1 lie United States would certainly not fct
the example of appropriating in themfeives any
t, poition o( the common flock of occupation. But >■
>n if particular nationsgrafpat undue (hares" &c,&c.
at In this pafrage, which in not a little olifcure, he
:h speaks of the freedom of the oceak, as if thut
c. were obflrutfed by the reflriftions of which hee»m.
is plains; which is not the cafe : the United S:a;;s
are not prohibited, in time of peace, or to uie his
c- eipreffion, during the fettled order of things, from
jr navigating freely and uninterruptedly every part of
Ih. ccean i r ' ,e freedom of adaiifTion info the Cerlt
"■ wrtiorltl M dthfi- "fiflMlii |< quire a afflfere^
.'e thing, and has conneaion with the freedom of
0 the ocean ; yet the whole of his r< a fonin e tarm
1, upon the supposed obflruflion of the ocean.
le Nations have a to make what commercial
is fey illations they plcale, loncerjiing their into pulf
and territories, and other nations may reciprocate
.them : all this is done without obfW>iog the fret
1- navigation qf the ocean, about which the reporter
1, makes such a'fad larr enta'ron. Ir is with rtwfidir.
i- able ielu£lauce we dtfeend to thcfertmaik?, which,
r. tho , dcmonflrativc of great wcffneilniTs of fl!Ie
d and inaccuracy of retfoning in a work of three ye?rs
labor, yet may bethought, by some, to partake too
!, muc iof a mete verba! criticism. They would cer
if tainly have been spared, had not the friends of the
, lepoitei ridu uloufly over-rated the merit of this
work, a:,d ILizcned the wonderful talents and genu
Yus 'he writer, avpuedly to 06/cnre, by an iuvidi
t out contrafi, thofeof a competitor, whose frierds
y | would have been well content to have left ifie pit
- | tendons of both candidates altcgeiiier to the rc/lec
, j ting and sober choice of the ptcpfe, uninfluenced
. either by a.< exhibition of iher defects or by a dif
t play of their excellencies. Bu; ihe antecedent (lcj)l
t i which have been pursued on toe one tide, hare not
- j tfnly juftified, but e»en calld for, the retaliate!/
- j meafurct "which have been alopted by the cthcu
, Retaliatory meafuret are not only judified on the
. principles of felf defence, buteven on the very fm
■: ciples of Mr. Jefferfon bimtelj in the report now un
der consideration. If his jacnis feel fere at ihe
s expofureof hisenor?, they fiKonly themfelveslo
1 | accuff their conduct has povojitd, n»y even n
. > tor leu an examination, which :he inclination alone of
. |th c examiner could never bavtfujfgefted. Ihe na
lurc and i/rm'ency of the comiftml miasurn «hicb
[ Mr. JefFerfon recommended!o counieraiiUhof: rt
1 other nationi, will fwi m the fitjeft of another num
ber.
PKOCION.
For the Gazstts of the Ukitsd States.
Mr. Pinno,
A WRIFER in your piper under the affiKii>d
name of a fcdcruiijl has taket up the pen to
care Mr. Jefferfon's opinionson the fubjeft '^ e
. Negro (laves of the United Srates, and weakly a'*
| 'eraptf to remove theincotifjlendes which Phuctvn M
charged him with on that (übjtft. Let u« cxM™
I how he fu-cceds. The charge wis that Mi. J t '"
ferfon, at me period, contidered the bUcif* a* 49
feriur race if animals, and at another, a» being c
to the whits. Now llie writer »Jmih ihe te"""
part of thijtharge in fubtiance, and even A |IVC '
from thencs" ah evidenceo/ Mi'- JefFerfon
fur the black, and the general freedom 0/
so much the yenger, as he may think the black is
rior to the'rhites "if Mr. Jefh-rfea, fay* the
writer, conoive* this illfated dcicripiion of
teiior to oufeli'eß in the present powers ot ' " lf
minds, it is hiely humane, and tntjiuuttmom 10 P r "pose For them the elevating condition of political
freedom."
The writer evades the second part of the charge,
which mark* Mr. Jefferfon's inconsistency, viz. Lis
letter to Banneker, the Negro, wherein he assert* the
equality of the natural genius of the black* with
the white* ; he i* totally Went in refpeft to that fa
mous letter, which was a direct contradiction to his
opinions, exprefled in the note* on Virginia ; but
he proceed* to explain Mr. Jeffetfon's emancipati
on scheme, which he telis us was only to operate
in favor of the posterity of the Negroes. This ex
piai.nti.in makes the matter worse, a* far as it would
h«v. afc-fted the interefb of the Southern states :
the pirfent holder* of (laves would not thank Mr.
Jefferfon for leaving them all the old, ftiperannua
tc< -['<*. useless Negroes, and liberating all the voting ,
and ui'cfui or.es ; such a scheme woulJ be indeed a . , ,
«eP'ifvation of the injury. What piov/Tion is a '
Souihern planter, whoGe whole wealth is derived ' i
from Haves, to make for his children, if =11.the I ]
young Negroes are to be set free, as soon as born, j |
or at the age, when they begin to be ufeful, and all , <
the old Negroes are to be left on the estate as a bur- ;
den ? If Mr. Jefferfon's scheme is to take place, (
much Letter to liberate them all at once, old and t
young. c
The writer next attempt* to apologize for Mr. c
Jefferfon'* ttanfportation projefi, by alfcrtiag that
there was to be no feiziog and (hipping and bind- t
ing, but they were merely to be colonized, he does g
not fay where, but thinks the interior part of Vir- f,
ginia or Kentucky: this, however, by no means fl
agrees with Mr. Jeffeifon's views, for he expressly p
fays in his Nates, p. 154, "the Have, when freed, g
mud be removed beyond the reach of mixture;"
and thereforecolonieing them into the isterior parts
of Virginia would not prevent the evil apprehend
ed, that of staining the Wood of the white*. If
is evident then that his object was to (hip them to
fomeforeign eeuntry, that it wasfome projefillike
that afterwards adopted by the Sierra Leone com
pany, who sent a number of free persons to the
v eoaft of Africa, where many of them miserably
peri(hed.—The term Colonizing impoits a fend,
ing to some remote country ; and the other part of
this wild projedl, namely, " the fending veflels, at
the fame time, to other parts of the world for an si
equal number sf white inhabitants," clearly con- w
firms it. The idea was, to fend of these emanci- h
pated black children in the vessels which were to F
bring back an equal number of whites. This very r<
Extravagant proieft the apologifi dwell* on as an F
evidence of Mr. Jefferfon'* humanity and mae;nani- d
mity. The black children, it i* to be observed, t;
were to be, against their cohfeot, feparatcd frcm g
their parents, and colonized to fame dillant region P
Suppose they rcfufed to go, mud they not be feix- w
ti, bound and compelled to go ?—lf not, the ai
proje<a would fall through ; and to complete the t<
humanity and magnanimity of this noble scheme, d'
the poor old parents, thus bereft of their children, R
were to remain in slavery, deprived of that which
•lone can render old age comfortable, the aid and fl'
company of their children. 01
Such was the pr. jea of this great p 1 ilofopher, si
philanthropic an A fhilontgrjjl! b<
The writer attempt* to retort the charge of in- b<
confiflency on Phpcion, for accusing Mr. Jrfferfon cii
atone time of degrading the blacks, attd at anorher
of lefriending them : Piiociori stated the fa 3, to (hew
Mr. Jefferfon's inconsistency ; the truth is that Mr.
Jefferfon has injured his chara&er with many of the
friends of abolition by his degrading opinion of the
black*, and he has alarrped many of the Southern
citizens by his projed of emancipation ; andthtts
it alway* is with inconjijlent charters, who aim at
pleafmg every body—ihefe half-way politicians mult
, count upon perpetually ititangling 1 hcmfelves in con- ,
traditions. ">
The writer is furpri«d that Mr. Jefferfon Iksiild f°
ke censured for wishing to emancipate the blacks, |"
when all the Southern dates, except Georgia, have
prohibited the (lave trade. Does this writer sup- J l "'
pose that the people of those states are so blind, as
not to fee the difference between prohibiting the im
portatton of any more slaves, and emancipating those
already in the comitry ? Mr. Jefferfon, he tells us,
had proposed an article in the Declaration of Inde
pendence, censuring the king* of Gieat-Britain for °[
annihilating the American laws to prohibit the flave
trade. Mr. Jefferfon carried the firfl law in Vir- d<
ginia for abolifting the slave trade. Mr. Jefferfon 1,1
in conformity with the equal birth rights of men! f"
prepofed in Virginia a plan for emancipating all "j
slaves born after passing ,h e Admit all this, f 1
yet the fame Mr. Jefferfon did propose that, when b .-
freed, they (hould be transported or colonized to
some d.ftant region, beyond the reach of mixture. "
, 1( . a P?" rs from lkc »ery explanation given bv •
the apdog.ft himfelf that the scheme was rathe'r
worse than was slated by Phocion, not only as i, >
regarded the matter, but a, it Regarded the slave • th
for a, to the former, all his young (laves were to be
emancipated, w,thorn nny compensation or equiva- F '
lent, leaving the old ores a. a burden on hi* dilate re
MI to the latter, the children were to be torn'
red off o' P i rem,, J ' nok r' VO,e '"' ,ranf P°"ed, (hip- ve
P«d off or eolonued to some distant region.
PKILO-PHOCION.
Patterfon Lottery. th<
STATE OF THE WHEEL. del
I Prize of -'1 thi
1000 . . - -< 000 1,
, 500 . ' 1000 qU
J SCO . J®' ™
10 j CO " IOC ° wh
90 ,0 " . ' " ' 2000
165 J 5 • 4JOO
The five !aft drawn tickets, icoo elch, *
besides a t
Artist™'? " c f on r ,dtrlb 'y more than one :h,H vol
rahNr !n r 1 "J 'he undrawn tick«, i.eonf?/-.-
"ii y holH r , I ' " wor,h not"' of Cu-
Who hold tickets in the old scheme, ,ha t thev can «
change their tickets for tho.'e in the above ,f tkev a
liowT'l "1 " r moderl,e advance eonfide-ing the ""
now real value of an undrawn ticket. E
future 4 i'lrU b /'" S a " fo,d » dnwine in C
NovernlVr A '' aDd £te Lott « r y r °"> Sniftfd.
chc
ical mmmmrnrn nimn in mvm mo .hum
Philadelphia,
•«<;> .
his SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER it, 1796.
the
,ith GEN. FRELINGHUYSEN's RESIGNATION.
: fa-
hi* An obliging Correspondent ha* favored u* with
but the following letter. ,
at '- Trenton, November 9, 1796. 1
rate Sir, I
ex- IMPELLED by the duty which I owe to a i
uld laige young family, lam conlfrained to resign, and I
es : Ido hereby resign my feat in the Senate of the U-
Mr. nited States of America.
ua - In doing this, I anticipate, with no small degree
of pain, the cenfureof fomegood men, unacquaim- t
a 1 1 ed with my circumllances, who may conceive thft 1
» a j 1 was in duty bound to continue in that (laiion nfi. I
l 'ed . til the expiration of the conllitntional term. But
the ] ] trult they will be convinced of the propriety of
rn, j my cosduft when 1 sincerely assure them that the
all | derangement of my private affairs, by so long an
ur- abfcnce ftom home, and the consequent fa;rifice I '
ce, have made, have so greatly exceeded my expefta- 1
md tions, that could I have forefeen them, no existing n
conffderation, at the time of my appointment,
fr. ceuld have induced me to accept of it.
'*t I cannot, fir, in justice to my fueling*, conclude
'd- thi* letter, without exnrefling my (incere and lively v
gratitude for the confidence placed in me by my v
i" 1 - fellow citizen*—A gratitude which it shall be the
n * study of the remainder of my life to evince, by a
>ly perievering attachment«to their light* and privilc
'd, ges. al
•" 1 r
< I am, fir, c<
" ts Your mod obedient servant, f £
d- FREDERICK FKELINGhUYSEN.
To the honorable James H. Imlay, Esq. chair- l '
man of the ioiat meetins; of the Leeiflature of c<
" New-Jcrfey. ta
n- lirr<TtlT — 01
ly BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
of CHARLESTON, October 25. b
at By a gentleman who came paffenirer in the brig b:
in Aurora, arrived heie in 33 days from Ainlterdam,
n- we are informed, that, while he lay in the Texel,
:i- he received two letter* from Amsterdam, dated 19 ol
to September, one of whi.h mentioned that it was fe
ry reported that day, that in consequence of the g;
sn French army retiring towards the Rhine, after Jour- w
11- d.m's check, the Imperial army had advanced and cs
d, taken pofl'eflion of Frankfort. The other 1 letter
m gave it as the report of the day, that the king of
n Pruflia and the prince of HefTe Cafie! had declared '
z- war against the Emperor. The Northern French
be army, which was in Holland, had received orders
tc to reinforce Jourdan. In consequence of these or
e, ders, 20,00 c French troop* had marched for th& S
n, Rhine. c
:h When capt. Philips left the Texel, the Dutch
id fleer, consisting of sixteen fail of the line and eight S<
or ten frigates, was there, completely manned and
r, fitted for sea. T here was no appaevance of peace
being concluded between France and either of the
n . belligerent powers, when the Aurora left Amfter- Y
d,ra '-
w NORFOLK, November 8. p
Late ft accounts from Newfoundland, received by
i e l^e Lynx, Britifli (loop of war, arrived in
Hampion road, from Halifax.
n HALIFAX, Oftolier 21. 0
is Wednesday arrived here capt. Warren, in a f-hr. Si
it from St. Johu's, Newfoundland, in 21 days pafT
[j Capt. Warren informs, thst on his way here,
v he touched at the Bay of Bulls—that he'found
that whole settlement burnt and destroyed, and
:j some of the inhabitants who had fled to the woods,
had returned, and were endeavoring to put up imall '''
fe ' hut* to (lielter them from the winter. Amon»lt "
vessels destroyed at the Bay of Bull*, was a va.
luable brig from London, which had touched there
and had had net discharged any part of her catgo.
f * She belonged to the house Hill & Co.—No account*
6j had been received at St. John'* of the fleet having
e ! been al a "y other principal harbour of the iilaud,
or of their having done so much damage as from
e _ their force have been expeaed.—They have
r _ destroyed a number of bankers, and we do not find -
that they have preserved any of the vefTel* which
[ aVe [ allen lnto hand,. At St. John'* they
U have been under no apprehension of an i.ttack from A
f them ; neverthclefs, every measure had been taken
, n ' b 7 " r J ame ' Wallace to give them a warm £recep
q tion, (hould they have the folly to attempt it. Up.
e wards of 4000 men have been embodied there for A
the defence of the place. Captain Warren also
rr ,n 7 >r ® B » ,bat intelligence had been received at Sr.
it l a ß ' ' hat tl,e Qii ebf cfleet had got fafely thro' r ' ]
. the ft'«ght*of Belleifle. A flag of truce, with a
,e " , . ,rnb ® r persons who had been taken by the ~
( French, nad arrived at St. John's. Captain War
•> "r '"J 0 :™ 3 ' that 14 days ago he spoke a M
n (hallop from Fair-Island, and learnt that another «
* e " e l had arrived at an adjacent harbour, with a *
number of master* of vessels and others who had ha
*«u prisoner* on board the admiral's (hip? By ni.
tht* vessel they were informed, that seven fail of ™
: the fleet had gone into St. Lawrence harbour, in
the bay of Placentia, and that they were expeain?
the return of ,* 0 of their (hips, which had been
detached to the northward, and immediately after
3 lt;! r p°"T ,h r C ru eet ' " Wa ' fu PP° fed ">ey would
3 th r ft * , y hiid bce " imo St. Pierre's,
, and l, at l burnt the church and government-bouse ed
= which had been left Banding.
t ALLXANDRIA, Noernber 8.
3 thlf, 1 the Cl °. fe ° f ' he poil °P ened yesterday for
" si » Tr C « U " ,y ' t0 choofc an Elff< or of Pre-
fident and Vice Prefdent of the United States, the 1
1 vote* stood as follows : _J
For Charlts'Simms, Esq. .0,
D. C. Brent, Efq ,
We have not yet heard from the two other coun
. "es compoling thediftria.
anc
1 fh' 01 f !, on ? Vir £ Jhi * that Mr. Brent i,
elected—-'and that col. Powell would probably be
chosen forthe neighboung dillria-J j
™f 'BALTIMORE, November 9,
IN CONGRESS—Oaoher 5, 1787.
On a report of the secretary for foreign affcirs, to
whom were re/erred two letters from the hon. John
Adams, of the 24th and 27th January iaft.
f. Refolded, That Congress entertain a high sense
of the services which Mr. Adams has rendered to
th 'he United States, in the executien of the various
important trusts which they have from time to time
committed to him,«.nd that the thanks of Congress
he presented to him, for the patriotism, perseverance,
a integrity and diligence, with which he has ably and
»d faithfully served his country.
J. C. THOMSON, Sec'ry.
Meffra. Yundt & Brown,
ee Please to inferc the above as the highest proof
it- that can be obtain*-'!, of Mr. A'lams having served
jit his poujijtfy ,to the fatisfaAion of thofewbo had the
R. - belt oppwtunity to judge of his condvl&.
jt A CORRESPONDENT,
nf BALTIMORE, November 10.
te As the Election iviil continue three days longer,
ln it was judged improper to publish a statement of
1 the polls, until finally c-lofed ; we however,
). that the votes for the county flood lad evening
g nearly in the following proportion :
t, For Col. Howard " 302
Dr. Areher, 127
e We have not learnt precisely, the number of
y votes for the town, but are informed that Mr. Du
jr val is cor.Gderably ahead.
. NEW-YORK, November 9.
The aflembly have pafled the bill making certain
alterations in the appoint'meut of the charter offi
cer* of the cities «f New-York, Albany, and Htfd
fon. This bill takes away the neceflity of appoint
ing those officers en a particular day, and enables
the Mayor and Recorder of New-York to hold a
p court, without the attendance of an alderman, re
taining however a right of an Alderman to a feat
on the bench at before.
The of adjournment has this day been
taken in the Senate of this ftatc, and carried by the
calling vote of the Prefident—fhouldthe Aflem
bly concur, the Legislature will remove to Al
-5 bany.
NEW-YORK, November it.
, The quettion of adjournment, on the resolution t
J of the Senate, was ycltcrday taken up in the al- 1
s fembly. The previous quell ion was moved and ne
: gatived by a majority of one—The main question
- was then put, aiH after considerable debate, was "
1 carried in the affirmative, by a majority of three.
r
f "
j GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST. j
b PHILADELPHIA, November ii.
. ARRIVED. Days.
'■ Ship South Carolina, Garman, Charleston 10
Sch. Regulator, Ruflell, North Carolina 7
' CLEARED.
t Schr. Lively, Clark, Surinam,
f Nancy, James, Frcderickfburgh
; Brig Neptune, Rhodes, from Boston, via Nor
. folk, bound for Philadelphia, is put into New
. York.
Nfw-York, Nov. 9.
arrive®. «
Brig Apollo, Robinfoh, Savannah
Sloop Romeo, Charleston
CnAM.rsTON, Oftober2C, d
AKRIVF.D.
Brig Aurora, Phillips Amsterdam 33
Schooner Joseph, Deflion, « Boston 7 '
jd " "V
j Pcjl Office, Philadelphia, I llh Kov. '96.
| LLI I ERS for the Biitifh Packet for Fal 1
mouth, wil be received at this Office, until Tuef c
I day the inft. at 12 o'clock noon.
- d
——————T— ■ if. f
EMANUEL WALKER, J
Ao. 70, South Front Street,
( Has for Sale, o
30 Hogflicads tobacco of Richmond infpeiflion. v
'5 do. do. ef Pet«rfbur* do.
' l 'o. do. of Frederickftmrg do. '
1 S° do. do. of Alexandria. a
Nov. la. t mwicfit.
I _____ T
For Sale by John J. Parr*,
N«. 38, S. Second near Che/kut-Jfriet, h
| A few excellent GOLD WATCHES, '
From Forty to One Hundred Dollars,
And SILVER WATCHES, ti
Of various prices—all warranted. ri
An afiortment of Chains, Seals, Keys, and Trinkets,
Eight Day Clocks supplied, and Clocks & Watches £
repaired with dispatch and great care. h
Best Watch GlafTes by the groce. f c
November 11. ■ tuf&saw ir
To fail the 1 jth injlant,
. The new ship Philadelphia,
1 heodore now on her second voyage; ,1
has elegant accommodations for passengers fails re- | p
niarkably fact.—For freight or passage apply to the tl<
matter, or to as
Thomas and "John Clifford. th
Nov - '»• tts r
Philadelphia, 6th Nivmber, 1796.
ALL perfonsdclirous to comrafi to ftirnifli for the Ar- J'
ly of the United States, the {allowing articles, or any por- us
tion of then), are requtftcd to fend 111 thrjr nropofals leal- Tk
ca on or before the 15th December next to
Tench Francis, Purveyor.
sjs Pair of leather breeches, -i
25a Pair of boots, I he pauerni maybe
1042 Artillery hats, I viewed w Samuel Hodg-
4icß Infantry hais, fdpn'i, Esq. public kore
4600 Pair of (hoes, No# 1: lon lile " rlt wtl »rf above
8000 Pair of (hoes, No. a. J
Noven ' br '' 8 - tu & f|D,
FOR SALE, " I
About 1,600 acres of Land, ''°
a nj V R LL v, ® tUa ! ed ' ' a L in g on and between Marsh ,h°
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in oil
fe P ara " Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn, on
n t, . S»uth m,
Oflober 31. TOwftf
%
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
Price 37 12 Cents.
to The Pretenficns of Thomas JefFer
fon to the Prelidency,
fe EXAMINED,
0 And the Charges againfyjohn Adams
„ JiF FITTED.
lc Akdrefled to the Citizens of AiTurica in general,
r and, particularly,
. s To the Electors of .the Prcftdcnt.
J Sold by
W. YOUNG, MILLS k SOIf, Corner of Second
and Chefnor-ftreets.
November t!s_
,f This Day is Published,
d F*r the Author, (price 25 ceil J J
e And Sold by B. DAVI ES, No. 6,4, High-ftrect,
and by the other TViokfellers in the City,
TIT FOR TAT;
Or, A Purge for a Pill.
» Bei(sg an answer to a scurrilous pamphlet,! stely pub
s lifbed, entit'ed, <c A Pill for Porcupine."
, To which is added,
r A Poetical Rhapsody on the Times,
Describing the Difajlert of an Emigrant.
44 To hear an open dander is a cur'fe.
11 But not to find an answer is a worfc."
, " This yh\i get, Booby Squirt,
" Because you would ctnattcr :
41 Since youVefor flinging dirt, .
We'iltry who best can fritter."
Padlj Whack
November 4. aogt
Lottery and Broker's Ofßce,
No. 64, South Srccnd stkeet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
* the late lottery.
3 Check Books kept for examination and r-gifterin?, for
. the City of Wafhiiigton, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries,
t both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of ail the prizes in the late New
' Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
; examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his frienjs, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bill* of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
*»* Alio 1 ickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
) sale at Ten Dolltrs each, which will be drawn early in
. the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
j Philadelphia, 18, 1796. mth
FOR SAL JS 9
A very Valuable Eilate,
CALLED T IVI TTEN HA M, situate in the
township of Upper Derby, andeountyof Delaware,
7 1-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
new Wcftern road*' containing 130 acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, go of prime wood
land, and the reft araftle of th# firft quality. There are
' on theprenoifesagood two story brick house, with 4 rooms
1 on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-weH
of excellent water in front; a large frame bam, flablca,
. and other convenient buildings; a smoke-house and stone,
1 fpring-houfc ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
. es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
. under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the 'dv intage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con*
venient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
eultiv.-.tion of the land, the good neighbourhood, a»d the
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman'*
1 country (est.
I The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harir.an,
deceafcd, and offered for sale bv
Mordecai Lewis,
1 Ofl. 31. Taw ■ Surviving Executor
Samuel Richardet
D EfiPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
tavern and merchants coffeehouse in th*
city of Philadelphia:
The Subscription Room will be furniihed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bol
■ ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—Tfcey will be regularly tiled
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will as all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated witk
the choiccft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most '
approved Malt Liquors from London and othar breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
produiftions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or Cngle Gentlemen, rrniy be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for cortveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifeed, and 4
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and everv other -
requilite.
gj" Samuel Richardet will behappyto receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledge,
himfelf that nothing on his part fhallbe wanting to pre
serve that patronage with whieh he hat been so diftmeuifh
ingly Honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mw f
TAKE NOTICE.
C " d "° r,of Gi-übb and Paine, late of Lancaftrr, or
• v. , ? a " P 'V p OUDl,e '> Me.d»nt, ; are hereby informed
that the fut fcriber, are appointed by the Court of Common
Pleasof Phi adelphia County, as Commiffioncrs, toaudit. f-t.
tie, ar.d finally adjust the account, of Mordecai Lewis, trulfee
appointed by Peter Crubb, for the benefit of the creditor, of
the fa,d Peter Grubb and William Paine, as well a, the debt,
and demands of the creditors of the said Grubb and P a i ne
1 herefore, this is to give notice, that we have agreed to m-.t
a the C.ty-Tavern at Philadelphia, on Sat.rdav the iqih mft
« fix o cluck in the evening, when and where, all those ih„t
have any demands, are hereby requefttd to present and etta
blifh their claims against ihefaid Grubb an<i PaiiK- r,.K r*
they will be excluded from iheir
JOHN VAUGHAN,
BnYi? H conyngha-m.
p. ot JRANICS WES'i\
Pmladelphia, Bth November, 1796,
FOR sale.
A PLANTATION,
A B ,?n U T " £' ,e 'J r ron th " C ' ty ' f,turte Abii.r
floor hre places in each, a stone kitchen fnd l(one f,°L*
other fruit, about ia acres of good meadow well arielv ,°
" m W a ;thatthT/ft Of Ao?U P'3Ce
will be taken i 0 exchange, or MORRIS an^CHOtVoNiJames Mtifgrave, *
GOLDSMITH & JtIf'ELLER,
N«.4i, south Serood-ftreet, -»
IT AS just received an vi Elated
X i »nd jCM."tilery, PlatedTca and Coffee t.ins, Oeff-e
Voft, Tea ditto, CaftpraJfci.i Jto 3 bottles, Svga.r an-.. , ,
v ,t)!ream Basons, Bottle Jtjnds, B<iVcts, Jftgh Cindlei'ici..
.Brackets and Chamber ditto, Branches, 9xonce», a variety
flf«£ilver and Plated Slice La' chits, Spurs, 'je.lfc. war- u
ranted of the bed plate; Ladies and Gold !c
Watch Chains Seals and Keys; Necklaces, Chains. ai
Ecar Rii gs, Finger Ringi, LocHet?, Brcaft Pins, Stone
ICnte-Buckles,-with many other tides in the above L
branches. Zl
He has like wife retti vert an eitenfive ilfortment o,
japam.'J tea and toffee Tfrr.s, persian, • blue, ~
black and gold. .
All kinds of-v-ork in the gold and silver line; minia- .
tures set, amlTiair work elevated r.sufual.
November 3. til th St \
DANCING sCHOOL.
'WLOAM M'DOt'G.ALL will open bfcfc'iool on Mon
day the 3til inll. at ten o'J'.uch iti'the morning, at his
Elegant bew Ball Means,'
In Fourth, between Chilnuc aVid Wal.iut Streets.
Hours oI tuition for yh'jng uir -s, £to u 7 ■1 o .:i<vx
oniMoudiys, and l : ri njortiings; and for
young gentie;»en from 6 109 o'clock on the evening' o
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new cotillioms, he ir.eufs to —
introduce a variety.oTscotch Reels 1
Note. The firft praetiftag bait to be on Tuefdiy e
▼eniitg, the firft of November, aira to be continued every
Tnefday, during the feafoji.
For terms, to, enquire at his house, N0.134, Market
ftreet. **
OA. 17. tthf J
Treasury of the United States.
V OTICS is hereby given to aU ptrfbns who are or c
JIV ' may be Creditors of the Ur.uea States, for any funis .
ef the F.nJ:d Dtit, or Sh.i, itJrug a fn-Jtnt t.Ur.f •/j<x"' ~
ttr trnhm fir annum. j
1 ft, That pursuant to an Ad of Coxgreft puffed oa the -j
igth day of April, 1796, ir.titled au ad in addition to an p
aft, intituled " An aft miking byther provision tor the [{
support of public ciadit, and tor the redemption of the v.
public debt," belaid debt or i;ock will be reimbursed and j_
paid in ••vit. " Finl. by dividends B
«' to be made en the Hit djiyi of, June and Severn- s
- ber for the prefect year, and from thitf t•'frgjfe;*' l ' u v aad k
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the jtflPJpc ftou-
<«" sand eight hundred ic eighteen in>iuvi*r,ar the rate "of
" one and one half per ceuium upon the original capital. _
" Secondly, by dividenos to be made on the Uft day of
«' December for the present year, and from the year one
" thoufacd feren hundred and ninety-feveo, to the year /
•' one thoufandeight hundred and l'eventeen iqcjufive, at
« the rate of three and one half per eontuni upon the ori
-1 < ginal capita!; and by a dividend to be ma eon the Last r
" day of December, in the -ear one thousand eight hun- a :
« dred and eighteen, of such fn*i, as will b= then ade- }:
" quate, according to the contrast, for the final redemp- c
" tion of the said stock." V
2d. All diftinftion between payments oa account of
Jntertfl and PrUtipjl being thus aboiifhed by the eftablith- _
ment of the permanent rule of reimiiurfement above de
scribed, it has become necessary to vary accerdingly the
povers of attorney for reserving dividends; the public
creditors wiH therefore obferv- that the following form
iieftablifliedfor all powers of attorney which may be '
jranted after the due promulgation oi this notice, viz.
° KNOW ALL MED BT THESE PRESENTS, ti £
T •/ ' \
do mah, confiitutcand appvnt
«f 'my true and Irtufu! At
tfrntp, for me y and it my wsnrr, to receive the dtv 'tdcads yjlich are,
cr Jocll oe payable acterJiii? to tbt 'htrs defrribin^thc
ftock) Jfading in mymnxrin the bqpks of (here delcrib»ng»the p
books of the Treasury or,the Commiflioacr of Loans, r
xthere the stock is awdite<f) from (here nifert the com- j
jciencement and eipiration oi time for which the power of
is to coilttntfe) xvilh-farcer aifo or. attorney cr cttor
lies -jr.itr tbat pkrficje to make andfubftitute, and to Jo all X
Uwjufc'i' r?quijtsjvt lotfremtfej, eenby ratifying an i J
. unhrmins JiJ that my fail i;'ufebiU w<r,.Mi lawful- r
kerccf. ' «
In ftfyhrfc bereefc J half hereunto set my k
day c* i* i~~ H
Sealed and Delivered
in C
BE l~r KNOfVN t that on the diy
tfcre me J»rJmalJy cdme j
within named and acknowledged the above lett-r of attorney 1o be
bis a& and deed.
In teflimcny -whereof I have hereunto set 'my Han 1 end affix- 5
ad Seal tte day and year la/e aforyaiJ.
Sivea cnd«r my Hand \t Philadelphia, this fven- -
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions
from the Secretary or the Treasury
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Ir:cfura of the Utiled Siatej.
-w IS"f ;l J t
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold iy WILLIAM BLACKBURN, Ne. 64-, r
Stuih Secondjlreit. '
SCHEME of 1 LOTTERY,
t%r railing Sixty T&oufami Dollar*, Aft»f r
the of peniifvlva«ia, p«iTed dunug the lalt
session, tor baildirtg a Stone Bridge o*c the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in ihc, County of
Serks. Dollars {
\ Fiize of fo.ooa Poliars - sc,oco
j do. of te,oco do. • - 10, coo
g do. of 5,000 do. — 15.000
4 do. of <7505 do. - - 83555
•O do. Of 1,000 lio. 2C)CCO
39 CO. of. do. - - >/) ,50©
So do. of 200 do. - i6,ccj&
sco do. of 100 do. • . %o t ooo
do. of go do. - I^jQQO
1 do. of 500 do to be paid the po&f- )
the firit drawis r.o. £
5 dow of 3,©co do. 10 be paid poiTeflo#* (
of the five iaii dfawii oo» J , -5» 000
S*4®° - - 141,000
10,054 Prites
10,046 BiaoLs —
30,cce Tickets at Ten DolUn 300,000 ]
All Prices £hali be paid fifteen cays after the drawing is
iniihed, upon the demand of a pofteflor of a iortunaie
ticket, to a dedu£fcoo of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as loon as the.Ttckcu a»e difjjoftc
oi # or perhapilooncr. of which public notice will be gi»e«v.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhrtfr, li'lWiam Hitman,
Jofefh HieJUr, jfftnet Diemer, Tbomtu Duruias,
Janet May, Jttjn One, Jeih Knm, Ltaniel
Sebajtiar. Mtiler, Commissions*.
Rcaaiug, May Ike 9th, >736.
" ___
Tickets !■ the Canal Lottery, No. s, to be "had at the j
above office, where ths eariicft iniormatiqu of the *dtAw-'
ing of the Wafaington No. a, a- 1 Patterion lottery's, j
are received, and check books for aj J regif- i
tering are kept.
Odobtt J.
l> ■* "'Rom.yi^p
GOLD SMITH & JEWELLER, 1
■No 36, Ch«snut-Strift;
HAS iuft opeaed a lar3,and elepant; affertmefit ot
PLATED WARE ahd JEWELLi KY, , s
ed Tea and Coffee UrriT; of different patterns, ivojj-
Handled Knives and Forks, Kniie Cases, sc;. . p
< he above articles (paticularly the piaitd ) are oi a vrr>
luperioi'quality, it is prefi:tncd wIU raeiit ihe'at- *
tent ion of thole who ui(h to purrhale, to whom t..c> c
are rcfpeilfuily offered en equitable terms.
P. S. Setts o£ Silver I late, Mourning rings and a
Lockets, Miniature Settings, a.nd every thirij; m Gold (
and Silver, made in the belt manner. i:
Nov. g. t th s (l
1 ; — t
A few.Pipes of VVIN-E,
Inirofted in trw FA*vi3, from to be io.d .
\,y MORDKC A I LEWI S,
Whp h-if sl'o tn .iioofc of on iealou?ble terms, t
IUIStt'LINSffSr v eil assort -d '
BANDANNA H 8
WII>E NANKEKNS '
COSSAS AND bAFTAS ,
HAVENS DUCK . ,
DIAPERS • fV-
QtUCK SILVER t
CHINA ' )
ROLL BRIMSTONE, &c.
Oher 27-
Imported in the late arrivals,
Aiul to. be St>!d by
JACOB PARKE,
No. 49, North fide ot High-flreet, Philadelphia,
,< GEhtkAL ASSORTMENT CF
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c. s
AMOVOST ViilCH AXI
SMITHS* Anvils, Vicea, and Fifes; Saw-mitl, Crof«-
cut, Hand, and other Saws; Carpenters' Planes, Ciiacis,
\ pjjr.d other Tools; Carving Chiiels and Gouges;- ix>cks,
Bolts and Latches; Nail®, Sprigs, Tack®, and
Screws; Frying-Pans; Smcothing-Ir6r.s; "Shovels and ,
Tongs; Coffee Mills; Candlesticks ; Snuffers ; \V*rmlng-
Pan? ; Table Knives and JForks; Riding Whips; Bar
low Pen, and other Pocket Kniws; R^ors-; Sciflfars;
Needles; Ivory and Horji Combs; best Kirby F:ih '
Hooks; brass Cabinet Furniture; Waggon Boxes; Sheet
; plated and tin'd Bridle Bits and Stirrups ; itto
Sa die Nails; Girth and Straining Webbs; —with mod
kind* of Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, Brass Wares,
See. &c.
Qjiftber 14. • mwffiw
To be Rented, 1
A Smalt and C'tnventenl ' B RJi WE R Tat '
MorriiVilU, ofpojile Trcrtan. * ,
ALL tb«Apparatus for "Brewing new aid in got'
repair: A number of Barrels and Half-Barrels will
fclfo be rented. Polftfiion may be bad at any time. ;
Enquire of Mr. Garrett Cottringer ia Philadelphia, ' Q
or Mr. Robert Morris, jun. or Daniel Mun at Morris- !
. ViHe, • \
October 10, i"g6. mth&siw [
William Gardner, No. 62, a
SOUTH FRONT-STREET,
Has received by the late arrival* from Liverpool
and CUjioli, a
An ajfortment of DRV GOODS, t
Which he will diCpofe of upon low terms, for cash
or the afual credit, by the piece or packa^c—
Ccvfijlwg c/
CAMBRICKS. Pruned Caiigoet and C.hintiei j
Piinted Sandkerchiefs and Shawls
Jaconet and Book Muflini, well afTorted
■ Do. do. tamboured do. t
. Do. do. Handk's and Skau-rt do. ' c
'■ White a ttd colourtd threids
' Diaper and diaper table clotht
Cotton check and clwck handkerchiefs '
Striped and coloeretf nankeens
CD.iKTKiet a_nd quiltings
Ta 3t-i ar>d ge ters.
Cotton couriterpa»i®
Mens and womeni gloves ' j
Plats and flockißgi
Ofnaburgs, bed-ticks and btown llollar.d
Stationary, sic. See. &c. * (
November 3. mts <
! To be Sold,
60,400 Acre# of Land. (
Lyin» on the er Alleghany, in the county of Nor
thumberland, in the State of Pennsylvania.
400 Acres Land,
In Bald Eagle township, Northumberland county ;
aforefaid.
60,000 Acres Land;
Lying on the waters of the Oconee and Canouchee
, rivers, in the county of Wafhinfitoa, ia the fUte at ;
Georgia.
174,000 Acres Land, 1
Lying on the waters of the Ohopee and Canouchee j
lf rivers, in the county of Montgomery, in the state of ;
t Georgia.
r 3' -033 Acres Land,
if Lying ia Orangeburgh diXlrkcl, in the state of South
1 Carolina. And,
146,986 Acres Land,
0 Lying in Charleston diftri<sl, in the said Hate of South
0 Carolina.
o An Half-acre Lot of Grond,
o In the town of Richmond, Virginia.
o The above Lands will be fold low.—Apply to
° Georg: Meade.
PhHadelphis, nth Nov. 1796. tofc 19thD
, JN iw Hat and HosiE/tr Stome,
o Wholesale, and Retail,
By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
Ne. 134, Marc, t Sirtet, 3d door from the Corner
of Fourth, South Side.
„ Mens* ffitdt American and Englih Hats, as various qial
i, itics and prices.
te Ditto Urabsand Creen-ondsrs.
tie Ladies' ditto blact
la And a large affortmect of fancy ditto
*. Coloured Beavers
n, With s great variety of dsg*nt and fa&ionahle trim
1/, mmgi* &c.
Yocth's black ani drab coloured ditto.
"' Childiai'sfaocy ditto
All Vindt nf fiHt, liUeasd cottoa, cotton and thread hefe
K ait CO loured Pantaloons
Ditto Drawers. „
he J Dit:o Breeches tax.ros
»- I tdk Glows
S, j Knotted, coloured ditto, ootton.
I A qvar-tity as mending co--.on,foneda>lcnri.
N. B, ihc Ji4a finiTicd 11 the ucwell faihoa
1 ' eadiiß.
1
r •;
TO BE 3 01. t),
££.«£/or/■»« van,fro* tht tyb *&'">•**■■ ir - '' - J
capitdlanJbmttjfql /:
PRO.SPE C T-ff™, v
. Situstrd within one qsmter of » mite from the Brandy* •&«
Mills. and-hall J mite from the Km-otioh of Wi.nHi.gioii.
T'HE dwelling house is built of ftonc, two Hones tngH, _
1 ger.:eclv fin,(feed, and contain.four handi «»c r ioms on
a fbotVbelidcs -acniry, with c>plta!._g*r rctt,
cellar It is generally.'JwiigSt to command the
jiroiiw'4l o? the Dc>«warr, from cne lource ot thi!
Wi if the Capes. This prolpeCt la g.eatl> cmbdiuW Uy
a in!] yew cf avail body of meadow, throuj* »»« l!te
ClinlliMia and Brandy wine cretLs ate fecii wmdm? m beau- .
tifui onanders. Near tht liuul'e aie a Kitc.ien, a fpaeious
(ton. tubie and hati ioft a barn, > carnage lionfe, Bi.lk
houfe, and a kill of as pure water as *y <*>!>* »«"-
nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter ol Und, a
bounding with fruit, and particularly with peach irees, o!
tiie veiy L>cit kind, brought from Maryland, and in fall Hear
in* There is, moreover, on the place, a fou*g, »pple •
or. nard in leverti o!d trees thai produce
afaiuiiiitly, Ulidca chcrry and uihei oinamerttl trees, in p
great Humbert. The farm confiflt of near fixt) acrci ot Unit,
of good Quality, and clear o! nicumbijnecs, except taxes, -
twenty of which areoow 10 excellent clover and timotti).
and ten more will be ready lor lowing :..xi fpitng. A ic
udence of ucdily £ veari has convinced the fubicriber that
the fnuation is remarkably healthy. The great pest , oar. «
item Philadelphia to ti:e Southward runs within teveoiy
sards of the house. Jo a word, the beauties and conver.i- in
, iefcre oI :his filiation eannol fee enumerated ia a» advertise- cr
menr, ai»d when examined, will probably command the at- \\
temion of any person who i* defifoit* of living a> one ol
moil eie/*aftt country ieats on the continent. The purer: Act
may eruer on the preinifis next ipring, or pei haos, thin tall,
if application be immediately made to Doctor NICHOLAS
W.-Y, in Philadelphia, to Doflor W'H J RH)N T , on tl «
premifw, or, in hi* abfeocc, to Mr. GEOfl££ T HUH 1, in
Wilmington.
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground fame
Stock,' <scc. may be had by the pyrchafer at the tsme ot
Nov. 7- codlf
To be Sold, tQ
JT PUBLIC VENDUE. '*
On Thur/Jay tht 6jli Jny of Apt •- next, at i I o'tJoci.
at Beughei-ty*t tavern, in the town of i incAtfitr,
f in Virginia, tin tandi, JiliuU* in tht fail
* Jlatf, viz.
» • No. f.—450 Acres,
Of excellent land on the waters of 3ack-creek, in
Frederick county, on the great road leading to the
South Branch, anout ten miles from Winchester, 100
teres of which ii rich bottom, a fine stream running
j through it, with fevwal iprings, thetrees in the bottom
{ arc chiefly sugar maple, ualnnt, hickory and
Lcuii. There is a log dwelling and ont-houfe», lome
m-adow made, and 40 acres of upland cleared. On
, this trail there is a good mili-feit, where an under- q\
);.ot-aiill might be ereAed. t!
No. 800 Awe*.
Situate in HampJhire on the north branch di
of the Potowmack, and on a branch, polled Cabbin-run,
about eight miles from Fart Cumberland. On tins
trafl is a large quantity of rich bottom, fit for meadow
! or the culture of hetap, the upland remarkably good,
being chiefly timbered with u alnltt and hickory. The
above trail is in two ftirreysof 400 acres each.
No. 3. —zoo Acrei.
Situate in Eranklin county, about ten mile* from
Wincbefter. On this triiS there is a dwelling Itoufe 1
and par'of the laud is cleared, the remainder is finely
timbered.
No. 4. —A Lot of (Jroand. _
In the town of VVoodtlock, Shanandoah county,
. whereon is created a two story house, and other im
provements, and a ten acre lot for the conveniency of
-j-iiiitown lot. r
. lie. Acrts.
Situate about two miles rram Wiradftock. Part of
this traul i> tn cultivation, is finely timbered, and a good j
quantity of meadow may be made.
No. 6.— 400 Acres.
Situate in George Andes's mill
run, on a branch of the Cal'apchon. Vhis trail is finely
timbered, there is good bottom laud, which might be
easily couverted into meadow.
No. 7. —One moiety of 5000 Acres.
Lying on the waters ef Hughes's river, in Harrifon i "
couaty. This was purchased at one quarter of 1 dol
lar per acre, cash abeve 8 year* ago. f,
No. 8.—41,900 Acre,.,
Lying in the counties or Wvthe, Wafcington, and
Graylsn (the greater part in Wythe,) on the waters
of Cripple creek and Fox creek, branches of New Ri
vet, and on the south fort »f Hollleit,.
No. 9 —x 0,000 Acres!
Lymgjin the county of Hardy, on :he water* as Great
Cacapion and North River.
Inetterms of payment will be one third part of the
ptirchaCe inonsy to be paid in haud at the time of ex- -
ecuting lh«j deed or drcd6 of the+emaining
two thirds-to be paid in equal inftaimeuls, at ta, 18,
and 14 months theieafter iscuring those payments by
nicrtg'iging the premises.
Should any person wife to purchafc at private file," !
1 application may be made to John Holker, Esq. rcr
Wmehefter; David Holmer, Esq. of Winchefier ; or 1
by letter}, (poll paid,) to the fubferiber i:i Plulade!- 5
t phia, being the owner of said lauds, who will perl"oi.il -
• sy atter.u on the da&' abovementioned.
George Meade.
id of 1-96.
- - diw w3u lMdtA.
For Sale.
1 7 cases coarse hats '
Copper bottoms an 4 ftceti
Shot, all fixes, patent -r.d commoir
Sheet and barr lead >
Engli/h ftcesand boots in tafej
Tin plates '
GoldVat^et
Taunton ale in cases. ■ I
Apply to 1
« Simon Walker, \
„ J *4i So. Fourth Street.
W «• d M t.
— i I
Wa&ington Lottery.
, v T , Le 36 1 h alld 37tb days' drawing of ihi WUhington
Or . V' are L rttt4Ved « <' e "ice bio. 334, Al«-
ia Y n«y be ataaiined. I
N. B. Inlomatioo given tickctfc in 41 the other
lotteries may be procured.
November 10, 1796. .
*• *
just Imperted,
la the schooner Lucy, Capt. Prows, from Madeira,
and to be fokl by
ELLISTON is JOHN PEROT,
Belt London particular Madeira Wine,
Three year* old,
In pipes, hogflicads, and .quarter cafltj, fct for im
mediate ute.—They have alio for £ale,
A tew bags of Juniper Berries.
~
FOR SALE,
A few i.o£-fheads of choic* Ne.v-England RUM
ft ' irthhn oi barrels <>f BEEF, and PORK, '
n:j(l fem kegs of LARD, of a fuperior quality
at N». ft, north Water-Hreet.^
NovembJf'B, I dlf
■. •*,., _ —: -a • |
James Taylor,
Ne. 3, South FturthJirect,
Rt Tpll jiTS Irs grateful -ckquwledgraenfs to hi; *
friends ari.l the Public for tt)<ir liberal entoueagciuca
and begs leave-to fo'icit a continuano; ol their favoit.
lie ba» on hand an eit.nfivc afTortment of the
Meji Fajhionable GOODS,.
And cfthe bell quality, fuitaUJt for (itk feafnri.
At this (hop Gentlemen can be furrifred with the heft
materials, and have them made up in thj neiteft and Ibo)
J-'aftii.onab!t: manner, and on the fticrtcft r.otk< He will
thaiikfully receive airy orders, and pay a pr»n.pt i:.d
pun>Slual attenti r. to them.
Novttr. jer 10.
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be pnrchafed or
exchanged for prizes, at the OtEee, No. 147, Ch in.-,
tVreet, where a ccrred Numerical Book is lc. pt for ptiuli;
inspection. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or cr
changed for prizes diaww in the Washington Lottery, of
which the jdth and 37th days returns are reccivel. ''
0" Th* Bufn.rfj of a Broker carried on a»u!uaL
November 10. ttjtf
Waflimgton Canal Lottery,
No. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland authorised
the underwritten, to rarfe tv.enty-fit thousand,
two ljundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of
a Canal through th City of Washington, froxi tb Vo
tomacto theEaflern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No.
4 Viz .1 Prize of 20,000 dollars, 46,c00
1 ditto 10,000 10,000
7 lad drawn 7
Tickets,each J 5,000 $#9*
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
JO ditto 400 4,000
20 ditto too 2,000
55 ditto 5° 2,750
j 7JO ditto 12 69,0 c!
To be raised for the Cap.al, 26,1.5®
5850 Prizts, 173Ac0
1 i6jo Blanks, not two to a prize.
I75°C Tickets, atTen Dollars, - r7J,000
p- The Commiffioneri have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid ad for the pun&ual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing cf this Lottery will commence, without'
delay, a. soon as thp Tickets are fold, of which thneJy
notice will be gt»en. "
Such prizes es are rot demarHediti fix months after thr
drawing is finifhed, (hall be con.Qdtr.-d as relinquifced for
the benefit of the Canal, ai:d appropriated accordingly.
( Signd) MOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D.
LEWIS DEBLOfS, i
GKORGE WALKER,
VVM. M.DUNC ANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Walhirglon, Feb. xi. $
THIS DAY PUBLISHED,
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Che£nut-ftreet.
(Price is i-2 Cei ts)
Address
Tu the People of the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring fren» puMit Trfa
at the expiration of the present ConSatutkmal term 81.
prefidcncy.
Seftcrwrier 20. d
To be Let,
A l»r» c cellar, in WalniK-fttect just abo rs FovnlfeSrrret,
j is flotJrcd With two inch plaok, and will hold upwards of toe*
I pipes of w : nt. |
Also, a Stable and Coach-h'ujfe* that will holtt'ftarfctfr
fes aod iwerctrria-ges; and several tiorcs ia Fourth Strtd- /
Apply to %
George Meade,
Who has for sale, /'
*5 df Castile fosp
Red Liftioo Wine
A few pipes of bill of enebinge wine
A few barrels oUtifhuiefs beef -•
And * tew barrels of {hipbreadi
Nov 4.
: . ■ ' —«^ r g> ;
Philadelphia, November 6.1796.
ALL persons desirous to contra for funa(h:ng »f
Rations and Quarter-Mailers flores, for the
troops m Philadelphia or Foit-Mitßia,,on Mud li.ai.a,
durihf the year 1797 —are requeued to fend their pro
posals fealcti, 00 or before the firft Jay of Decrmter
•est, to ,
TENCH FR ANCIS, Purveyor.
The component parts of the Rations, are
I pound of Flour or Bread
j pound of Beef or< 3-4 ot 2, pound of Fork .
i-i a gill of Rum, Brandy L
or Whiskey
1 quart of Salt 1
2 quarts of Vinegar I p or , o0 Rations
2 pounds of Soap
1 pouiid ef Candles J .
Nov! 9 WJ.
STOP THE THIEVES 111
LAST Wednesday Hveniog, Octobf ii>. ■*
hours of ; »;:d 10 o'clock, the bed 100 m i.f ''' r .
O'Eller's hotel was enrered, either by mear.s 01 •*!
or at the window, by some v iliain or villains, wl lo 1^ u " ''
been acquainted wi .h the situation of the houx * 1 e
ull found locked alter thev ad coo"tni':e.i 'bet u■ )
took a«ay from amonjft fertral truujri, O.»'F. ,
I uiorda valuable part cf-Mr. Ritkett's properly, w' **
he isndt >xtableto aieertain ibecoeteiiss pa r - it ifut,-
tcr bringing the said trunk away, and erop-'T ,B S
1 wards of a ihoufand dollars iu ca(h and bank ao!es ',.
- bins left it behind the circus, during the time trjt P
fcimanccs of the evening were going iorward 1
r It isearneftly reaurfled, tbat all uvera-keeper« "
roads, and the ferr'y hemfes, as well a. *8""' ,
be watchful lutecuring lufpicious persons, who m ■
redundance of (>oi, which their appeaj-afles ■>»
meinsbefpeak them to :e Douiired of. ,
One Hundred Dollars Bs*»rd
' Will le gi*en for feculjnj the thief or ti»e»es, an
tber rewud lor fecttriag them with ihe projerty-
oa a
- PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119—
CHESMHT-JTREf T ' .
[Price Fjgbt Collars per Ann«»f