of the MtlltetJ States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
- r NuMBER 1255 . FRIDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER \6, 1796. . X
For Norfolk and Baltimore, | Th<
The Sloop NONPAREIL, I
yjp*, £L JOHN HAMLYN, Matter,
jV^~v-■ Will fail in all this week- F6r freignt
£ arid passage ; apply te the Capt. ori board,
Nortr, fide of JESSE and ROBERT,
Wains wharf, or to the Subscribers, 70
Who, have i&w landing from [aid Sloof,
A few H'nds. of proof Antigua ROM. Ft
The NONPAREIL is intended as a constant trader, be
tween Baltimore and Philadelphia, it fuiuble encoaragemerit ,g f
-jSff C ef vvi WOT T.TXfiSWORTH. & SON. j
September 13,179 s - 5 " i
—FOR LONDON, •- -
The capital (hip CERES, I J
To fail soon:—For freight or passage J
f•-^£s-, r plv to DAVY, ROBERTS Sc Co. or I
°Jotm Vaughan,
September io. Front-street. J
F 0 R-S A L E, s<
The Schooner LAX K,
yifjf One Hundred and twenty tons burthen. I
nSjviSr A new Vessel well found, well built, & J
fails extremely fad. For terms apply! FOl
to the matter on board, or to I j
joseph Anthony & Co. u
If the above vessel is not fold in a few days, Ihe will j i
take freight on very low t,ernls for Boston. j
Se V l - , i Ab
For Sale or Charter, j£|
V THE SNQW Ba;
boston, 1*
BURTHEN .ibout 1000 3bls. of flour—fWe may be sent Ch
to fca at a fmj.ll expence, her fails and rigging being in j Cir
very good order—apply*® l_C=)
'f 8 flic's. LuriiptTen, or
George Latimer. F "
At>ril to, 5_ I' 9
—— — I Ga
FOR SALE, Gr
jrj-X The {hip. STAR, £
John Vanseman, Mailer, Gr
T YING at Walnirt-ftr.et wharf, Philadel- |
V ' phia built, ps live oak and cedar, will 1
e „ry »bo *3190 barrels, is two years old, and in com- «•*<
olea order to receive a cargo—For terms apply to
plea orue THOS. 5c JOHN KETLAND. |
Who have also forfale said voffels cargo—confuting of—
Wine and Porter be * %
Window G ass, 6 by 'S to 16 by H.
Pipes ir. boxes , j —
Earthen-Ware in crates.
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, &c. I
2 9 _ S thi
At bouth-ftreet wharf, Nc
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft. August, lot
by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and Hoop Sally,
{rem Port-au-Prir.ee,
7co Hhds. COFFEE,
70—Hhtiex •STTCS-.'cß..
Also, the cargo of the Swtdi/h brig Guflaf Adolphe, in
cap!. Ramfre. from Gibraltar,
ift and 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhdj.
Hazle >" lacks
St ui ci iALT, for faleuy
bt ' PETER BLIGHT.
< >—a For Charter,
The said brig
Gustaf Adolphe,
s- A Swede, with a Msditerranean pass,
very fine veficl> about 200 tons bur
then. Aug. tB. ffawcozw
For Sale or Charter,
th-e fast-sailing sh»p J_
iMi LIGHT-HORSE,
LYING at Mess. J. & R. Wain's wharf,
two* hundred and seventy tons burthen, a stout, strong
vessel, and well found. For terms apply to ft
Joseph Anthony & Co. o
Sept. t. ' dtf ,—. '!
INDIA SALES. p
ON '1 hurfdaT Ttie IXU n'fl. Jflu u'ukiLK, A. -t<
be fold at the stores of Willings and Frane.s, a large tl
quantity of INDIA GOODS, impoited in the Ganges, y
from Bengal, conflfting of
toco picces Gurrahs
ICC3 do. Baftas, different kinds £
3500 do Coffas, <I°*
450 do Humhumt, do. 6
600 do. Patna hdkfs. for women
rco ho. Addaties 1 ®
£0 do Table clo'Jis ,
joo do. Emerties • .
'80 do. Panjums T
300 do. Fine Mutmuls
%oo do. Fine Ducca hdkf*.
100 do. worked Muslins
too do. Dorcas ,
I<jo do. Book Mullin
TOO do. bbek and colored Perfiam or Taffet.es
I2CO do. bandar.nocs, chocolate, red and blue
lao do. Choppa RomaK .
40 quarter ca&s of Hyson Tea of go«d quality
An Souchqng '
The coarfc goods wiU be (old by th 3 bale, the taffetas
ir.d banaaniHies in lots to fait tn P u ,he " 3S
the chofl. The whole is entitled to the drawback,and .
he fold for approved notes on a hbcralxred...
The gcodi iiuy be fcefi irom the 15th mft. to the da, 1
previous to the lale. CONNELLY, ASionecr. 1
September 8- — [
Dissolution of Partnerthip.
T HE «».ner(hio between ROUERT ANDREWS.and '
-* D»V 1D MF.REDI IH, under ihe firm of AN DREWS
ad m: Reditu, being difloived /JJ, m ■
.. r, -a to, or who have chums 'V* ho " fc ' ,
e,celled to apply for lettie.ent, .he ,»
No. "86, So. Wha.ves.
, • d .f .
stpt.6,1 7QQ. —•
' • FOR SALE,
A Cr.mt>lete Font of Brevier,
. and yet unopened. The weight o ~m
1L tontLbout " i- from thc IT CZ rl
Wilson & willbe :old at cost & charge .
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal C.-.afes.
Squire at the Olfice of the Gazette ol the Lmtde
Stats;* ixjChefnut-ftreet. Aug. 19
1 The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
APT AIN CATHCART, from Alicint and Lif-
VJ bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf — .
,t I 28 Pipes of Brandy -
A, 18 Bales of wool
r, I 3 do. ol Annifeed . 5;
I 7000 BuQieis of best Lilbon Salt the £
80 Boxes of Lemons {ion
For sale by WILLINGS ic FRANCIS. a
e- I ALSO,
nt I Seventy Hogfheadsof prince JAMAICA SUGARS,
j received by the fiiip Dominick Terry, Capt. DeHart,
from King^t-n.
_ I Sept. 13. d
\ JUST ARRIVED, frvmLiJbon, A
e J And for Sale by the Subscribers, Mefl
Lisbon Wine, no ™
111 pipe« and quarter-calks;
5000 Buihels Lisbon Salt.
— JeJJi iff Robert Wain. —^
i Sept. 10. dtf
j 1 ,
l\ MAILS, O
ply I For the following Pojl Offices, will be closed at . A
I Philadelphia ON Friday afternoon at sun-set :— "
j Mails from the fame Pofl-Offices mill arrive on
fill I Friday morning— Ji
j Abbotftown, P. Hanover, P. PITTSBt'p.G, P.
— I Abingdon, Va. Hagerftown, Md. Rockingham c.h.v
I Bardftown, K. Harrodfburg, K. Sharpfbursh, Mdi
I Bedford, P. Hancock, Md. Shepherdfbwn,Va
j Bathc.h. Va. Jonefboro', Ten. Springßeld, K.
j Bourbon, K. iCnoxville, Ten. Stever.fbursh, Va.
1 Brownsville, P. Lancaller, P. Stralburg, Va.
I Carlisle, P. Leefourg, Va. Staunton,Va.
rent J Chamberfburg, P Ltxiagt«n, K. Sweet Spring?, Va.
lin I Cincinnati, c. w. t. Lexington, Va. I'aney-Town, Md.
I C ".) K. TTinr^::, 11.I 1 .
" ;:.3 WarfeftS. n.w t." Wilhington,' P,
I Dcnv^inglown, P. Millerftown, P. Washington, K. '
I Frankfort, K. \Jartit.foarg, Va. Williamsport, Md.
5 1 Kredericktn. Md. Montgomery, c. v. \'.'inchefter, Va.
1 Gallipolis, n. w. t. Moigantown, Va. Weft Liberty, Va. Th
J Grecnfburg.'P. Nashville, K. Wheeling, Va.
1 Gettilburg, P. New-Market, Va. Woodllock, Va,
1 Greenbrier c.h. v. Oldtown, d. Wythe c; h. Va. A
I Green eville, Ten. Peterfburgh, P. York P. L
acl» I •
will.! Tlie MAIL from Lancaster, P. arrives at Philadelphia,
om- I every Monday, Wednefd y and Friday, at 6 P.M. and A
1 closes at Philadelphia the fame days, at 7 P.M.
) [ The MAIL for Potffgrove, Reading, Lebanon, and
[ Harrilburg, wilt close at Philadelphia, every Tuesday,
I Thunday and Saturday, at 7 P. M.
I General Poft-Olfice, September 13,1796. d 4t.
Washington Lottery.
r I THE Twentieth and Twenty-firft Days' Drawing of -
I the Washington Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office
No. aj4, Marker-ftrcet, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
511 ft, lotteries may be procured.
ally, I September 15, J"
— — £
FOR SALE, ,
WINE, London particular i.ladeira, 4 years old, , n:
'pbr, in pipes and hogsheads co
I Claret, genuine old, in cases .
Gin, in pipes, from Holland to
Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, in hogsheads
1 Shot, Not. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead •
Steel, German and Rviffia, in barrels /
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas, '■
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by v '
' r THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. -•
!£: L
— A very valuable Merchant Mill> p ,
■J A DISTILLERY and BREWERY, and sundry STONE ~
£V QJJARIUES to be let.
I will rent my merchant Mill at the little Falls of Po
tow mac, for any term rot less thanfeven, nor more than
' eleven years, from the firft day of September next. The
tron K mill-house Is 4Z by 40 feet, three stories high, built with ! -
stone, and hasin it three pairs of French Burr Stones, two j
). overshot l 8 feet water-wheels, and Evans's machinery 1 ol
f complete, with every other thing proper and necessary for ar
——• carryingon thebulinefs with dispatch, and-at as little ex- p<
penfe as possible, all 111 good order.—From the mill to my al
u I■ ■! tii-g ■-» .tV>a P-*-,— -- ( >f any bur- |k<
large then may deliver grain and tike in flour) it is about 40 i
mges, yards, and from thence by water to George-Town and "
° the City of Walhingtos, about 3 miles, and to Alexan-
dria about It miles. This situation, aided by a fufficient
capital, will command the produce of a very extensive
back country, where large quantities of wheat,and other
grain is annually made, the diSance to it being from 8
to to miles less than to any raaiket town up in the navi
gation of the Potowmac. There are on the preniifes a
large-ftotie Coopers' fh .ip, a stone granary, and a commo
dious miller's house. At the -landing aforefaid a bridge
is now building over the Potomac, which is in great for-
and probably will be finifhed the ensuing fall.
There are also on the premises, a Brtwery and Distille
ry, built with stone, in them are three stills, two coppers
or boilers, with every necessary article, all new, and in
good order, and fufficiently large to carry on the Brew
s try and DiftiHery upon a very extensive plan. This prop
erty I will rent for the fame term of years.
Upon my lands adjoining the premises, and along the '
y ■ banks of the river, where craft may lead with eafeand dis
patch, is an i nmehfe q-iantity of building and founda- j
iffetas tion-ftones. Four quarries are now open, and as many
■ as by -more may be opened with cafe : the stone taken from these j
d will 'piarries* is better, and has, the preference at this market, c
to any other stone brOHght to it. I will rent these quarries (
le day fcparately or together as may best suit. ' _ c
On the top of the hill, and about too yards from the 1 (
ccr . mill, is a stone Dwelling-house, large enough for the nc- 1
j' comniorktion of a family : also, a kitchen, dairy, smoke- 1
house, &c. and a garden, enc ofed and in cultivation, the
foiof which is equal in goodness to any in this slate. I
'Sand will property. > ,
lEWS Adjoining to the Brewery and Diflillery is a Smith's
ho a r e (hop, in which is a complete set of Blackf.nith's tools,
fc jic which 1 will also rent, and if agreeable I will hire to the
tenant two negro blacksmiths, one of them is a complete
workman.
et . 1 I rent out the stone quarries, I will fell three crafts,
lif which were built for the purpose of .carrying stone : they
will altogether bring upwards of 90 perch Immediate!
possession will be given. For terms apply to the Mifcrib
cr in this town.
of this The Mill, Brewery and DiftiHery, withthe'.r apptirtcn
erv of ances, will be delivered to the tepant or tenants in good
i»rges. repair, and muftbe sb returned, at the expiiation of the
leafs orleafes.
L T nit de PHILIP RICHARD FENDALL.
54W Alexandria, Aug. «6 —
For Sale,
(In an excellent situation far bulinefs,) O (
A three-story brick House and Lot of
Ground,
Eighteen feet front and twenty-five feet in depth, on £
the South fide of Market near Front-street, now in posses
sion of Samuel Read.
Apply to KtC
Israel Pleafants, or
Charles & Joseph Pleafants. 4 °^
dtf I Di
For Sale, Id!
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut IDi
street, between Front and Second streets, in which Foi
1 Messrs. James Calbraith ScCo. have for many years (and -au;
now do) carried on business.
Poflefuon will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or -Of
HECTOR CALBRAITH. Houf
. April *1. y §_ Front
A Book-Keeper, C
OR Clerk's place is wanted by a pcrfon properly quali
fied, and whose chara&er will be found unexception
able. Apply to the Pointer. A?:d
, Aug. 11
Dutch Goods,
Received by the Pennsylvania, from Amjlerdam.
GIN, in pipes Bei
„ Moriaix
Ticklenburgs > In Bales
4 Ofnaburgs J
pt' } «*<■— —
Hollands \ DUCK, in ditto And
Ravens 3
Bedticks, in ditto
:: asr } "» Lai
UorSahHry TSGMAf JOHN XfftW.
2 <> ' ' §
d ' Sales of India Goods. Bioc
a. The Cargo of the Ihip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF g e i C
A Large and general afTortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
j a • AMONG WHICH ARE All
id' A variety fine worked and plain Mu/lihs,
Doreas, Is'c. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, JL
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
_ Willings Francis,
No. II Penn Street. TJ
of ' T""e 8 _i_ Me
At a special netting- of the Board of Di- be i
; ' reclt H for ejlablijhing ujeful ManufoSures, ho/den g
at Paterfon, July 8, 1 E
RESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock- I
holder of the Society be called on the finl Monday,
heing the thi/d ay of at Paterfon, by,t-en 1
: f -the clock of the feme day ; then and there to t ,ke I
d > r.lto w Tctir i tide ration the propriety of diffolvjng the said
corporation, agreeably to the law ki such cafe made and |
■provided—and the Stockholders are earnestly requested ;
to attend the said meeting in person or by pre icy. _
August 27 dtjathO
HIBERNIAN SOCIETY. j
A QUARTERLY MEETIHG of the Hibernian
S'ictsT y for the Relief of Emigrants from Ireland,
"* will bs held at Mr. M'Shar.e's tavern, in Third-street, on
Saturday the 17th inft. at seven o'clock in tl* Evening.
Maiurw Caret, Sec'ry.
— 1796. J.
P. S: It is particularly requested the members will be
> punctual in their attendance.
NE duty on carriages.
Po
•1" Notice is hereby Given,
'ith i ~pHAT agreeably to aft of Congress of the United
wo i 1 States ot Amerjca, paiTed at Philadelphia, the 28th day
ery 'of Mav, 1796; laying duties on Carriages, for me convey
for ance ot persons, and repealing the former a Sis for that pur
ex- pofc.—'That there (haltbe levied, collected and paid, upon
my air carriages for the conveyance oi otrlons, which shall be
ur _ ; kepi by or for any perlon, for his or h«r own use. or to let
, 3 out tQ hire, or for the conveying of palfengers, the several du
ties and rates followi&g, to wit.
For and apon every Coac?h, 15 dols.
upon Chariot, la dols.
Nt upon every Post 12 doln 1
lve upon every Poll Chaise, 12 dole.
" er • upon every Phaeton, with or without 9 doll
n upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
»vi- upon other Carriages, having panne i work above,
ts a with blinds, glaifes curtains, 9 dols.
mo- upon four wheel carnages, having framed posts and X
dge topi with steel fpriugs, 6 dols. cc
for- upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
springs or jacks. 3 dob- *
ilJ e . upon curricles with tops, 3 dols.-
p ers upon chaises with tops, 3 dols.
i ; n uDOn chairs with tops, 3 dols.
' ew _ upon lulkies with tops, 3 dols.
_ upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
°P" upon two wheel carriage*, with steel or iron springs,
1 , 3 dols.
~.e For and upon all other two wheel caniages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheel carriage, havir.g framed posts
| ao< j tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols. ®
ian T The Collectors of the Revenue of the firft survey of the 4
hefe Diftrift of Pennsylvania. will attcud daily, until the 30th day -
of September next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on
rries at No. 117, in Rlcc or Saffofrai street, in iheCttv
of Philadelphia, at the house ot Daniel S. ia ' hc 11
the > Countv of Montgomery ; and at the house of Abraham Due
: r.c- bois, Esq. in the Co»>nty of Burks; of which all persons pol- |
oke- fefTed of Uch Carriages are defned to take nouee. t
. the Not'ce is also given, j
' TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri- ■
. , tuous ice nee, will be granted 10 .hem ; One 1.
: ;*' Cence for carrying on the_ business ot retailing ol Wines, in a £
°°' s > iefsauantity, or in lels quantities than 30 gallons —and one 1
» the licence for carrying 00 the bu&nefs of retailing Spirituous li- 1
plete quors in lefsquan ities than «o gallons.at thelame time and ,
at the fame places, by the officers legally authoriaed to grant
fucii licences.
they ' WILLI M NICHOLS,
(iiatef Infpcftor of the Rt venue o! the fifil farvey
cr ib- of the d?drift»t Pennf)lvmoia.
Office of Infpeflion, at { ,3®
rtcn- Philadelphia, 21ft July, 1796- J
good — 1
1 tne wants L,
X. An APPRENTICE to ihe Prirti6g Buf.ncfs.
Enquire at this-05ue. Aug. 19
1 ■ f Jt' ■' "* m • -
Just Landed,
96 Bags of Prime Coffee,
Entitled to drawback,
For Sale at 117, South Second-street.
Sept. 15. ' * d 3 ,
French Goods. ,
Received by the Seily, Mitchell, from Havredc
Grace,
zo Trunk. ■) La( . ies } SHOES of ail colors fopts and Cze»
I Cafe 3 •/
I Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGo
1 Ditto Fine LAWN 1
I Ditto befi: nnetjAMEWG"
I Ditto'La3ies* befl (hammy and Grenoble Glores / '■
For Sale by TUOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
•tug- *4 -
A Single Woman,
<• Of a good charafler, that would take part of a
Houfc, may hear of one by applying at No. 110, North
Front-street Sept. £4. dj
Great is Truth and mult prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for fate at No- 41 Chefr.ut-flrett by J.ORK :: ODi
An Apology for the Bible,
2sy R. JVATSON, D. D. F. *>'
Bijkop of Laniiaff, dc. . ,
Being a Complete refutation of Paine 3
Age of Re a fen,
A"sd thfr only anf»er to the Second Part
August 30. ■ . *
THIS DAY IS PUBLIiHtIJ,
And fold by WJL I.IAM COBBE VT, opposite .
C'hrift Church,
MISS WILLIAMS'S
Last' LefTon to the Admirers of French
S Liberty. |
Let thbfe who doubt of the Lifts fiated in Porcupine's
Bloody Suoy, read here and be convinced-
At the fame place may be had,
Watson's Apology for the Bible ;
Being a complete refutation of that hLfphttOous work
is falfely called the " Age of Reason."
As Alfi
All the Grub-flreet Pamphlets, vomited forth from
, the lungs bf filth and falsehood, against
Peter Porcupine.
Sept. 14.
Wm. HOLDERN kSSh, _
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals four. Europe and
the East Indies, a well feleScd assortment of Silk
— Mercery, Linen Drapery and Habcrclafhery Goods ; w.uch
jf_ he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, en the lowcft terms ;
amongst which are,
°' n Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold ana L.ver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aad Mulmul ditto
D / do do do Handkerchiefs
SomeeXtrablacktaffetics,lut«ftringsand colored Peruana
en EanJano Handkerchiefs
ke Long aud short Nankeens
id Enjlifb Mantuas of the firft quality
n d Damaflc table linen and napkins, very fine
ed Silk Hosiery, an elegant affortm-mt
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas —green silk, oil'd do. and do cleth
— French cambrics, very fine
friih Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
3d, QJ- the bejl quality and or. retfonable terms,
On * SALE BY
°g- Philip Nieklin- & Co.
Auguf: 16. 111
he Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li
verpool,
cooo Bushels SALT ;
100 Crates QUEENS WARE; and
An Assortment ot SHIP CHANDLER ;
F O ft S A L E
j ed On board, at Pine-street wharf. Apply to
%l James Campbell, or
ur - Gear re Latimer.
>°n " c
be April 19* I
£ CABLES,
•' From 16 to 9 £ inched, for salt by
Jeremiah Warder,
July 41 § No 15 north Third-ureet.
• N Lottery
5¥t ' T7OR ra'iCng fixthoufand fix hundred and sixty-seven
and Jf dollars and fifty cents,, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
iron 1 Prize of 5000 dollars it dollars 500.0
loco 1000
t 500 J°°
40.0 icto
A 100 1000
99 S ° 49^
200 s°°°
inßs ' 1000 10 . „ *o'ooo0 ' 000
5 Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, jooo
C:.
f the .4018 Blanks.
1 day —
■son 6, ro Tickets at Seven Dollar? each, 44.4J0
City By order of the Diredors of the Society for eftabnfh
-1 the lrl „ ufefulManufa&ures, the fuperkitendants of the 1 at-
Du- erion Lottery hive requested the Managers to offer the
P of " foregoing Selicme to the public, and have direAed theni
to reiund the money to thofc person. who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
£'!!" n o'ietoueT/has dually commenced drawing, and will
in . continue until fin.lhed. a lift of the Blanks and Prize.
I one may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
usli- south Second street, who wiU give information where t.ck
e and ets may be procured.
grant Dated this 17th day of June, 1796
f. N- CUMMIXG, 7
JACOB R. HAKDENBERG, V Managers,
unrey JONATHAN K.HE-J, J
dtf eo
A Handsome, well-broke
— SADDLE HORSE,
For Sale , enquire at the Omeftogo Stable's, the ownet
ft. having no nfe for hits. „,3cfjW
Aug. »»ily '■ OK.?-! A h ids
76 j: •v- ai!v sf.thc d-an-ing of toe WASHINGTON
1 LOTTERY, at the Cfiic?
No. 147 Chef nut Jlreet,
bctvrcsp Fourth arid Fifth streets. Alio, where Tickets
may yet be had. r Sept. 15. t'f
The ict{-. and ilft. Days drawing i» arrived.
■ ' j .11
Rofs and Simfon
Have for Sale,
A few casks Bees-Wax,
Of an excellent quality,
And a parcel of Lampblack.
Sept. 14. . d
FOR SALE.
PORT WINK, and
HOLLAND GIN, of fh-. firft qualities ia Pipes.
FRAUNCES and VAN REED,
Brokers and Commiluon Merchants, No. 63,50. 3d St.
Who discount approved NOTES of hand.
N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted.
September 14. owf
WANTED,
A Middle-Aged WOMAN, who can be well recom
mended, to take charge of t{ie entire management of
children—Such a person will meet with suitable encou
ragement, and may hear of a jjlace, by applying to the
printer of this Gazette.
Sept. 14. - mwf
TAKE NOTICE.
THE fubferiber intends to make application for a re
neval of the following certificate, supposed to be
Joft on the palfage to England in April 1794 :
Certificate No 10335, dated ijth November, 1793,
for 2830 dollars and 94 cents—Six per cent, domcflic
debt, on the books of the Treafuryof the United States,
in the name of the Ho.n John Trevor. ,
ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's.
Philadelphia, August joih, 1796. *tu&f6w
LAN D I N G,
From on board the Brig REBECCA, JJominic Divine,
Msfter, at Philip Cart's Wharf, and for Sale by the
Suhicriber,
London Particular Madeira WINE,
In Pipes, Hogsheads and Quarter Casks.
There are jn the above parcel io Hbds. of CHOICE
OLD WINE, fit for immediate use. >
Robert Andrews,
Sept. 6. mw&'f No. 86, So. Wharves.
India Tamboured Muslins.
A /mall, handfme ajfortment of Muslins,■
viz.
Fine tamboured Malda andsSantipore Muslins, various
patterns and prices.
Plain 6 4 Jaconet.
Corded and croft-barred Maflin Shawls.
Ditto ditto 6-4 and 4-4 Dorcai.
Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarse.
Japan Muslins, and
A few pieces extraordinary fine Long Cloth#.
TOR SALE IY
Thomas Tinge j,
No. 121, South Thjrd-ftreet. j
Sapt 11. tu&ltf
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALS, ' '
Souchong ,
Hyson Skin / 1
Young Hyson I FRESH TEAS '
Hyson and y > 1
Imperial ' j
Yellow Nankeens
Chi»a Ware, assorted in Boxes and Chests
Quicksilver
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in 1
ehefls , ]
London Market MADEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, hogsheads, & I
New-York Market J quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogfieads t ,
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8 '
Lead in sheets (
3 Casks of Cutler--afTorted f
A few chests of Manchester Goods, aiTorted thick- i
sett, cords, striped Nankeens, &c. c
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks j ,
!i Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Nails assorted in caiks
July 18 mw&f 1
- • ___ r
Watson's Answer to Gibbon. t
yusr received, f
And for fileJ. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-flreet, A
Apology for Ghriftianity, *
In a ferit 1 of Letters, addressed to
Edward Gibbon, Esq..
Author of the Hiftqry of the" Decline and fell of the | l v
Roman Empire: «'
3v R. TVATSOT., p. t>. f. r. s. Bishop of LandafT. g
(Price 75 cents bound ) t
Watson's Answer to Paine, t
To be b.ajd at the fame place. <1
The enemies of Reltgimi are awake ! Let not her ,
friends Jleep.
Sgpt- '• mw&ftf !
THIS DAT IS PVBLISHKD, a
[Price one quarter of a dollar]
Embellished with a curious FrontispifcE,
The Adventures of a Porcupine ; F
Or the VILLAIN XJNMASKED, t
BEING the Memoir* of a notorious Rogue lately in -
<he British army, and ci-devant raember of an menfive
TiOHT-i iNotser, association in Eugland Containing a '
'larrntive of the mofl ixtraordinsry and unexampled ■ dc
praviry of conduct perhaps ever exhibited to'the world, 1
>n a Letter to a young gentleman in New-York. ,
" rhefe th ' n £s we flrange, but not more firans-t than
'rut, 0 * v
, which, is added, c
A Postscript to Peter Porcupine: f
Being remarks tin a Pamphlet, lately publiflicd bv him, 1
entitled, his " Life" and Adventure*." * f
DA KIEL DST£C TOK.
c ' I'll tell the bold fae'd villain th3t he lies."
Sold by A. & J. O. Hekbujum, cornar of Relief and
. 'V.~ ' 7l of No 77, Dock street, and by the ;
uookfel!ers in this city. J
JfPth mwfcf i
To be disposed of, t
• pHE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
X has brtv.-ecij four and five yr:f: s to fervc- She
'.as; be recoiiifritndcj for her sobriety and koneflv For °
particulars enquire at No, x it , Chvfnut-ftrcct. 1
A'suaj.. *
< I
For it* Gazette of the Jniteb Statss.
Mr. Fenno,
Notwithftandinp thr malevolence of Peter Poi"
cupine againll the ftiends 3i:d clfarnpions of Liber"
— ty, I have always been inclined to think weil of his
principle* ; imagining that liis bittcrntfs proceeded
from his education, and that all his far«afm», how
ever severe, were the feelings of his heart.
I have, howt*ver, like many others, been difsp
pointed. In a pamphlet, published. by Mr. Brad
ford, the public are presented wj:h aletter written
by Peter Porcitpine again ft himfelf, which he sent
to Mr. Bache to be published, as coming from the
democrats. Such baseness and deceit, I think, can
result only from a disposition long hardened in
gtiilf; & that the writer should podefs so mu#h ma
3t. lignity as to submit even to forgery for the purpose
of annoying his enemies, is what I never could
have believed.
How can Peter expect, after such an inllance
of meanness and falfehood, that any of hi's aiTer
tions will be credited ? or how Avill he convince tis,
" j that bis scarecrow letter is not also a forgery, and
even all the letter! that have been written against
lie him ?
i recollect reading an address in one of our pa- :
pers some time ago, to the citizeirs,of this place,
urging them to check the writings of this
author, and alledging, at the fame time, that such
«l»ufe would be pardonable *in a native American ;
but that no such liberty ought to be granted to a
3, foreigner.. Such a sentiment excited my contempt
■c at the time; and I have,fince feeu it commented
i6 ' upon, in one of Peter's pamphlets. . ,
' The idea of confining the freedom of the press
to the natives of this country, is too grossly absurd
ever to have been the real wish of asy.perfon ; and
I am now firmly persuaded, that the fame wascoun
terfeited by Peter, and intonded by him as a han
e die to his'enemies, upon which he might ground
some cehfures at a future day.
Let any person consider, whether frich a senti
ment, at once so base and so ridiculous, could be
E the cool opinion of any man amongst us ; and if
his judgment acquits tbefe, whether we mjy not
justly charge it upon him, who has since shewn
himfelf capable of similar mifcondu£l.
VERITAS.
EXTRACT 1
>' From Colonne's political Jlate of Europe, at the
commencement of 1796.
" " When, in the month of November lad, I be
gan to writea few articles that were fucceflively in.
ferted in the Courier de Londrea, under the title of
Tableau de I'Europe, I was very far from forming
the deiign of composing a regular work. I only
wished to aflill the editor of that paper, who has
every just claim to my moll tender interell*. Soon,
however, the variety and importance of the lub
t. j e( -^ s tthich fell under my conlideration, the differ
ent questions tS>-at arose from the circumflances of
the moment, and the deep attention which, fram
the impression they-made on my mind.'l was indu
ced to bellow upon them, carried me much beyond
my oiiginu! intentions. The horizon widened by
degrees and 33 I wished to be wholly direfleii by j
the course of the different events, which then follow
ed each other, with so varied and rapid a fucccffion, |
it became impofiible to adopt a regular plan, and I 1
was obliged io give way to digreflions, which de- (
manded more or less illuflration, according to the ]
importance of the occurrences of the day, and the ,
peculiar inteieft of the moment. ,
■ I have had two principal objects in view :
< the one relating to that part of the French, as well
within as without the kingdom, that is well inten
tioned ; the other relating so all the powers of Eu-
rope, but.especially Englartd. '
First object. lam firmly convinced that the re
eftablilhment of order in France, which is no lon- ;
- ger to be eXpe£ted from the mere force of arms, !
I can only l>e effe&ed by a general impulse and una-
I iiimous resolution of the whole nation.
I am convinced that the nation, exasperated by
the numerous and accumulated evils which it expe-
riences, is very well disposed to receive this im- c
pulse. f
I am convinced, that what chiefly obftrufls this c
favourable disposition, proceeds from this circum. '
, fiance, that the nation being in general defirousof
a change, does not precisely know what kind of a
change it would be for its interest to adopt, and has
no fixed rallying point to which it can direst its t
jviews. " ■ f
lam convinced, that in order lo give every de- i
gree of dtcilion andailivity to this disposition of 1
the people, it becomes indispensable, that every par- f
ty, every power, that is an enemy to the present 4
government of demagogues, which opprefies France 1
under the fpecieus r.ame of a republic, should unite
in one desire, be animated by one spirit, and concur
in one plan ; and that they should unanimously
agree In printing to the eyes of the natiop one 1
fjsigle objefL that might command the general ap
probation, and gain an univeifal eoitcurrence. [
I am convinced, that this object should not be
to compel the p.opie to resume what'they have re- f
jetted with so much violence, what they evince '
such an unconquerable repugnance tove-adopt, what '
in short, 11 incompatible witb their present' prepof- f
, lemon 5 for, inltead of attempting the frenzy ci 1
their mind, mftead ef reclaiming their wild and be
wddered imaginations, it would be a measure the
nioft repulsive to their feelings, and would only re
plunge them into their former errors, to announce
, tot * zm > hat thty tan find no other issue out of re
publican anarchy, but by reentering into that fitu
[ *' My brother U among the number or emicrants
wWivethar present fufcuflence from their own L
duftry — Hctas devoted himfelf to a very faflidicus la.
bour.Uw he might rot becomc * burthen to any Wy\
I h,s hird aeceffity „ oot a fubjta of fhau-.: but
of tnrapb to tTcry good freoc iunan.*
a-B. !h " a ttriiute
ef lb. tr.Mb cbtrgft.r n j^ li!r
- J; -'/«! >• suit to B»ft *J ahi hrp in.
» atwa.whrt'li iW jia'e b*n ict} >© confi kr •<* tl-a
eaufe of a!! their evils, and from which tiiey forced
thcmfelvesby the molt terrible convulsion. It will
not conciliate tlieir mwds to f a y them, re aritnite
what you have so completely deprived of all exist
■ ence : re-e(tabii(li what you view wih'fueh dread
" and horror, and expect nothing of what you lo av
? dently deiire.
I am eonvlnced, on the contrary, that in orcer
to induce the people to adopt a good government,
it is necessary to present oncwhich has at least the
appearance of being enentii.liy new, and totally dif
ferent from that which they hare slellroved ; that
? it is necessary 'o acknowledge the deleft* •>( the au
-1 cient in order to fecui.e the favourable
" reception of that in which these impetfeflions
1 (hould not exist ; and that, in the present moment,
' the only certain m?ans of turning the iide of popu.
lar prejudices in favour of monarchy* would be to
j declare, in a solemn manner, and to ddnfcre to the
declaration, that monarchy {hould be created on a
constitutional basis, regulated !)nd tempered by laws
that should have a fufficient Safeguard to render
them fixed and immovable.
j Lastly, lam convinced, that it is nat only pos
t fible to form such a tnonurchy, to appropiate it to
the French character, and to adapt it to the fafcty
aftd pr'ofperity of the kingdom ; but also that,
from the point where we now are, it is a much
j (horter way to arrive at that reformation, than it
( would be to return to the ancient order of things.
. Besides, there is now no choice left; one Avay lies
i open and accelfiblej whilst' the other is obftru£ted
by insuperable difficulties, and by obftaclcs that are
| now bccorne infutmountable.
, Second objeit. To appreciate, with justice and
1 impartiality, whatever I have permitted myfelf to
observe. in the course of this work on* the coriduft
of the coalesced jiowers, on the political ftatc of j
Europe, at the present moment, and on the proper
rneaffs to obtain a speedy and solid pacification, it ,
becomes necessary to r«cal to mind what was the o- !
rigin of this war, with what 'fpii it tfcie powers de
clared they entered into it/ and what (till (hould be ■
the real object of >i 7 relative Ws lire ul tunrtrt - -
of all civil society. ,
It is inconteftible that the French were the ag- ,
greffors : tin h - real motive was, that the revolu
tionary chiefs were in need of a war, to keep the |
nation employed, and stood in need of armies, the i
better to enslave the people j but their ostensible
motive, expressed in their declaration, was to de
fend their liberty, and their new conftitutitfn, a
gainst the supposed intention of the sovereigns to
deprive them of both.
On the other hand, the powers considered that
the French revolution!lts, a6ting on a fyltem found- '
ed on anti-social do&rmes, had become the enemies
of all nations, and of all public tranquillity.—For
this reason, a: the very time they armed tc repel '
their attacks, they formed a confederacy, with a
view to deflroy the foctis of a .contagion which
threatened every empire ; and they announced it to
be their principal object, " ,to consolidate in France '
the baiis of a monarchical government, equally '
suitable to the/rights of sovereigns, and to the '
welfare of the French nation."
Thx'e were the terms of the declaration fig Bed '
at Pi'nitz, Augult 27, 1791, between the Em
peror and the King of Prussia.
That which was publifned in the name of the
fovereignß, by the duke of Brunfwick, as gene
ralifiimo of their armies, at the opening of the
campaign of 1792, equally expresses that " their
Majesties bad no other objedt in view but the hap
piness of France, without pretending to enrich
themselves at her expence, by conquests."
" It is the full assurance of these intentions,"
said the Bourbon .princts at that time, " which
justifies us in urtiting our (landards with those of
the foreign powers. By publishing their inven
tions, they have legitimated their proceedings
and our Wiftes for their firccefs, are conformable
with those which we have aever ceased to exprtfs
for the good of our country."
When, afterwards, England joined the con
federation, (he manifefted (till more plainly, the
fame fentlments. His Britannic Majelty, in his
declaration, dated Odtober 29, 1793, far from
(hew iug a desire of taking any advantage of the dis
orders of France, exhnrt»d »)1 F»nwefam»n foully
immediately round "the monarchical government,
referring it for another opportunity to discuss tlie
necessary modifications.
" He invited themto.unite under the empire of
the law, of morality and religion, in order to in
sure a petmanent peace v.sh tlieir neighbors, the :
internal tianqujllity of the country, a just and true i
lilierty, a wife, modeiate and beneficent govern- !
ment, and the enjoyment of all the advantages
which may secure the bappintfs of a great and flou-.
tifhing nation."
These v.ords, which Wisdom herfelf seems to
have uttered, by the mouth of George 111. are
the text of the whole political part of my woik.
My continual efforts are to demonstrate that now,
more than ever ; every plan and cvery-ftep (hould
be directed toward* the eltabli(hment of that " wife,
moderate and beneficent government, which alone
can insure a iuft and true liberty, can re-tftablifh
the empire of the law, of religion, and morality,
and reltore peace to Fiance as well as to her neigh
bors."
" By infilling on the execution of such noble
resolutions, I ouiy refer to intentions announced
by all the powers ; and by combating every depar
ture from thi6 line of condu£t, 1 only continue to '
pay homage to those fame iatcntions too \*brtl;y of
the allies not to be durable. If I express in this
writing an unwillingness to believe, that the cabi
net of London has abandoned tkem, and that what
ever appearances may be, it is actually determined
to acknowledge tne chimerical and momentary gp
vetnment which now exifls in France ; I reft folelys
9 n the very ptinciples of his Biitannic majesty, i.i
culcatcd in that declaration ; and no subsequent cir-
i»ave 'oeen an inducement to ~ban. |
den themi.finee there esifts :he fame indifpeniable '
, necessity for all Europe to dc!hcy that which wi',l j
A I urn Europ:f it fuffcr- i
edtolubfilL
■ ■ .
%
Put LAbsLPHiA y
FRIDA\ EVENING, r6, 1751
We have received a Idler from Port-au-Prince 1
ted the jotl. August, which after mentioiiin the' a
ot Capt. jeUup, his cruel treatment by JL, p ,r 4
&c. which have already been fully detailed iij Ui,.?"''
zctte, goes onto Hate—that "al at ence t; e
ings againtt Pigot were Hopped, and i o poi t iLPI' .
" the ,iioct of all ovii," iotiened all the i\ u l' f
healed Jeffu/s beaten back—Boo glittering golaen
ne-as laid lo be the cure. .V e hope on i m arr lv t
America, he will be able to shew tlu; he is not that"l '? '
picable wretch we here take him to be."
American produce is iow—flour 11
18—beet 14 —We have a report this day, that r
Rigaud is gone againlt leremie. 'Ike finglith
heartily tired ot the poiicai<jH»'iß«yliisjd»iaTEwlf'
The American veffeu are .plundered m thele I'e't'b*
Row Barge?, the crews ot' wtoich'jre moltiy
of Ntgroec and Mulaitofcs, runaways from
and other dlands ; thole termed Brigands of s t iT*
mingo are a Imall proportion of ; title delperadoes, "*
It is Hated in a Southern paper, that there was on
board the (hip lately taken from Capt. Barney's lq ui
dron, " 600 men, 150 of which wer, lick, aoodruajj
and the remainder had mutinied"—U hey '
been in a deplorable iiiuation if ihe.veffcl 14^0'nl- a ja
gun lhip, astjie New-jfork Argus has atierted/ We
do not however believe the ttory. 1, 1, not t/a-tna
raAer of Frenchijiftt to get drunk. Spirits are kldom*
used on boawl 1 lie French navy, except irjeuta iu ,;'
Count Vaudreuil's fleet, of x 6 or 17 fan of ta e *'1*
which was in Bolt an arter the deic.it of De o aifc'
had 10 or 14,000' ieanien on board, great numbers o! :
which were on shore daily, and a tingle initaiicc 0 f
intoxication was l'eidom if . ver oWerved.
War between Portugal and the S.tates of Holland
appears to be highly probable. We have already stated
that the court of Ltfooa has laid an tmoargo-on\iie
Dutch Ibigping in their ports, li is True, that
the Batavian government ha? taitcn tiie fa*ie Sep w ' t ',
reipecfl to thj Portuguese vellcls in thijr pints. '
Extraß from the French OarMtt pitbl'i" .-J a t
_ —... 2L— ""
The Ga?ette ef Aucayes lays,' ffist the
the Colonial Directory had ,ordered Rigaud to af l s ,i
the celebrated Prnchinat, charged with The confpiSw
which broke out at the Cape in March laii, the touri
felior and ioul of all the atrocities imputed to ihe
men of colour for five years pail.
Rigaud informed that his refearchjs had been i«
vain ,' but paffeirgers in the lalt veliel from' Caves i. v"
that before their departure, Pinchinat had bee'.i tak-H
and carried to the prii'on of St. Louis.
/ .»
0" \ -stated meeting of the Philofophicai Socicty will
be held" at their Hall this evening at 7 o'clock.
Sept. 16.
FROM THE PROVIDENCE GAZETTE.
To THE ErMTORS.
AS many of the admirers of MrV Paine's Age
of ReafoM (who ate revolutionists in religion as
wcli as in politics) may think the encomium onthe
bilhop of Landaff's publication in your Gazette,
was the recommendation of Come polemical diviaej
and confcqtienlly unworthy of uotfet ; I ou
an extract f, om—feeorid part of the
Rights of Man.
" Among all the writers of the Brit,ft church
" clergy, who have treated on the fuhjeft 0 f reli.
" g<on» tl't prtfent bishop of Levari, has not bun
" excelled; and it is with pleasure that I ( £ ]j e
•« this opportunity oflxprelfing this w re .
" fpe£t."
When this great champion of inficlelily public,
ly avows hu reiped for his aniagonift, hit tollowers
will be induced to peruse him with more attentien
or forfeit their claim to candour. Applaules from
an eremy are generally well founded:
NO FANATIC.
9
AMPHITHEATRE..
Mr. Ricketts is on his return from Boston t»
this City—he will perform a few nights at New-
York, previous to opening the Amphitheatre in
Philadelphia, in which place it is said the C imps
ny will pass the enl'uing winter.
NEW THEATRE.
Snftertftm 6f E.ntcitaMrunli"nt liaiiimSft,
After the dropping of the curtain, at the end
of the comedy, 011 Saturday evening 10th inft.
Mr. Moretos itcpped out, and addrefling the audi
ence in a very feeling manner, returned she grace
ful thanks of both managers and performcs, t»
! the citizens of Baltimore, lor their very fpii ited and
liberal support—Hated thefituation ©1 the theatru
1 ca.l corps, regretted that imperious circumSances
: should compel thrtn tp fnfpend the entertainments
for a (hort time—and concluded in giving waiTO
and pleasing aflurances of of the pt«»
sent absent manager,-Mr. Wignell, to biing for«
ward a llronjv and timely reinforcement, and ren *
der their luture, not lef6 deserving of public patro
nage, than their former exeitione.
BY THIS DAY'S MAIL.
SALEM (MalT.) Sept. 9.
The following is a letter sent by an Arrencai
captain, confined on board his Britannic Mnjtdy's
(hip Monitor, addrefTed to the American mailers at
St. Pierres, Martinique.
" Gshtlemem,
" I am sorry to inform you that it is out of sy
I power to come on shore to fee you, as 1 am con
fined on board the Britilh ftip Monitor, a 74,
whic|v arrived here yellerdsy fiom Fori - Royal,
where they left my (lisp, though i have been csp
tured tor three months, and was firii carried te Bsr
badbes, where they took me on board this (hip*
and 1 have bet <1 confined ever since, and all com
munication denied me. They threaten to cany
me lo Englavd. I was from Nantz, bourtd to
Guncjaloupe, with 73 French p.tffeiigerfi, tn;n, wo
men and children-—raoft of ihem inhabitants of
that lfland. Thej tell me my (hip is condemned —■
' but I have not yet seen any official information 09 .
' the fubjeft, or any account ot her trial—and it i»
t ' couisly au unprccedeoteil piece of bufioefj for »
1»i.-r to Iwwc Th 3 property taken frum him, a:u! b!
iemnid, withoul knowing for win*, or being c«
• :'<rd a (ingle queilion about tlie btifinefs. I am
, k?pt confined and debarred from feeing any one. hi
My motive in writing this, Gentlemen, is to be- B
I'.ech you to afe your interest to get me extricated, th
Sv petitioning the ConfuJ, or some other means, in
i had hoped after the ratification of the celebrated It
treaty, that we (hould have been treated with less ti
lt-verity ; but, alas ! we have nothing to hope from v<
their civility. My (hip's name' is the American pi
Oongrefs, of Alexandria. Whether her name ex- pi
> ;;ed the cruelties and indignities I have fuffered, w
1 am at a loss to determine—but heaven grant the
irn? may come, when Ve (hall put our jhoulden
to the wheels.
" Your obedient servant, *
- « JESSE HONEYWELL."
, Capt. Ropes, the bearer of *he above, with a
I\wuand malter, went on board the Monitor, and 0 i
tupplied Capt. Honeywell, with every neceflary he f,
was in want of. The other American captains did tl
:i'.n go, it being hii.ted that it was probable they r ,
Lifo ti»igbt be detained by the commander of the £
Monitor. n
BOSTON, September 10. tl
. We (lop the press, to notice the arrival here, this V i
morning, of Capt. Swaine, 56 days from Bremen. n
£ He brought no papers :—However, by the polite- r<
nets of the Cspt. we arc enabled to date the follow- n
ing interelhng particulars :—That on the T 2th
July, about a day's march from Franktort, a severe r |
engagement took place between the French and ri
Aultrian armies, which ended in the tot'al defeat of 5
the latter, the loss of 12,0c0 killed and taken pii- p
foners, together with their baggage, artillery, &c. d
That the French immediately pulhedon for Frank- I
fort, and it was supposed' at Bremen, when Capt. ]:
i Swaine failed (July 15) that the French Were al- n
! ready in poflejilion of that plaee. This intelligence y
arrived by express from the Autlrian army, and was t
confnmed by the Andrign soldiers who had efca. j (
ped. It appears, that the French effedted this de-
teat by ilr«iagem ; -icgimcnt of - a
their uoopsin Audrian uniform the evening prcce- f,
ding the battle, they were made to feign an attack v
on the French ; who retreated—the Auftrians ob
serving the French falling back, cume on wich all I
their forces ; and when the French decoyed t
them far enough to efFetl the/r purpose, they tarn- t
fed 011 them, and made a mod complete victory. t
(Col. Centinel.) J]
• By the Outram, Capt. Weld, from London, we t
■ Team, that on the 21ft ult. a bt;ig from Bremen, in (,
3.5. days, for Bolton, informed, that an a&ion had i;
taken pl»ce between the French and Auitrians, on v
the Rhine, which terminated in tke compleat de- 1
feat of the latter. Brejnen is advautageoufly situ- r
ated ta obtain early Information of events on the t
northern theatre of war. r
Tiie Hon. Mr. Gore, arrived at London, in
June —wly:rc he is preparing ta enter on the duties ' |
of his office. The Americans in are r
much pleased with the appointment. y
NEW-YORK, September 15. 1
.Capt. Mease of the (hip Margaret, ofPhiladel
phia, arrived yederday Irom Bourdeaux, having 1
carried away her mall on the sth in ft. put in, in 3if- 1
tress. Left the city on the 20th July, brings '
Paris papers to the 17th. 1
Capt. M. informs, that two engagements had
taken place on the Rhineabout the ill of v Ju!y, in
both which the Auftrians were DEFEATED.—
All the states of Italy had concluded a peace with
their conqueror Buonaparte. We are promised 1
some papers, and much pains will be taken ta give
a general view of the politics on his departure.—
Those papers contain official accounts of the fur
tender of die citadel ot MILAN, in which 2,800
priloners, and 250 cannon, with Urge quantities
of warlike (lores, were taken.
The head quarters of Gen. Buonaparte were at
LEGHORN, the 10th Meflidor, (June 28) he ,
had qrdered the Consul of the French Republic to
put seals upon all «he property belonging to the e-
Berries of the republic'—and iiad demanded fatisfac
tion fqr an insult to the French flag, by the British
in that port.
An affair tortV between Mni-fan's ,-irmy.ant}
the Auftmns call ward of Offcnburg, called Frea
•Temdadt, which poll was taken by the French, by
a general charge of the bayonet, notwithstanding -
the previous arrival ot an Aultrian reinforcement
of 15,000 men from the Lower Rhine, 600 prison
ers and feveritl pieces of tknnon and caifons were
taken ;; the killed and wounded immense. About
50a families had quit Mentz and Frankfort, in ex
pectation of those places becoming the theatre of
war, as arch-duke Charles was retreating from the
Lower' Rhine, towards Mentz, where he expe&ed ;
to ellablilh his head q'uarters.
In_ short; victory continues 10 be the order of j
the clay in all the French departments.
All contrails in fbuire, by a new regulation,
made in specie will he paid in specie, and all con*
tr_3» in mandats, paid in mandats. Argus.
LATEST FRENCH INTELLIGENCE.
By the biig Mary, captaiu Waie, arrived on
Tnefday, and the (hip Margaret, Mease, arrived
tefKrday, irom Bourdeaux, we have been favoured
'.vith Paris papers to (he 14th of July : from the
Jjsteft of which, we have translated a few of tne
mad material articles ; those being the official ac
• c -ur.t of the taking of the of Milan by the
French, and general Buonaparte's account of the en
try of the French troops into Leghorn. We (hall
continue to translate what may appear to be of im
stance.
Tabu the courier »u corps legis
late.
Translated for the Daily Ad-vertifer.
PARIS, July 7.
The Americans lately celebiated the anniversary
! American Independence. Amongll the guells,
«lro were '.o the number of 200, we cbferved fev
<.fa! amba(Tsdotsi the lrfiniller Charles Lacroix, and
iijVeral of his principal friends—thirty deputies,
•uch as J'cvtulis, Barbe Marbois, Dttmolard, Lan
girfi&is, Louvet, and $ all-en, who was more hum
t ' ■ 'r r ■.
ble, and- more fiVnt, in the wliic!< pre
ced and follow ed tht 13th Vendsmaire.
Louret paid his reckoning to-day by relating in Bb
his Journal the different toads which were drank.
But we know not why he Ivas forgotten to mention
the toast, drank with such eclat, to President Wnfh
ington, as alto that to the majority iu Congress ? gli
It it true, that Charles Lncroix hasrefufedto drink 50
i that toad, and declared, in a deliberate tone of cai
i voice, that hfc was for the minority. But Louvet, cai
perhaps, thinks witb Charles Lacroix and Rohef- ant
■ pierre, that virtue is in the minority throughout the fer
, world ! thi
— fix
GAZETTE FRANCO IS E, July 12. >' e
Buonaparte, to the Executive Directory.
Head Quarters, Bologn, July 3. vai
1 While a division of the army, citizens dire&orsj au
' occupied Bologn, Ferrara, and Fayence, another re '
from Reggio advanced t» Pilloja, from whence it f"
I threatened to make itfeif mader of Rome by Flo
' rence. The grand duke of Tufcany sent to me at co
; Bologn, the marquis Monfredine, to icprefent to vel
me, that having retufed apaffage to the Neapolitans,
it would be unjtift for us to violate a territory which
th? coalefccd powers had refpecled. After some con- ne
verfation, he appeared fatisfied with a proposition f '"
which I made to him of not pafling through Flo
rence ; and it was agreed, that that division (hoald W1
march to Rome by Sienna.
On the Bth, the division of general Vaubois ar
riven at Pilkjja. On the raoirow, the general Mu
' rat, at the head of the advanced guard, followed
■ by general Vaubois, with the 75th half brigade,
■ pa(Jed the Arno at FufTecchia, and the next day fud- °P
• deniy changed their route, and marched rapidly to '''
■ Leghorn. The reft of the division remained at °f
• Pilloja. 1 sent citizen Mar'mout, my aid-de-camp,'
■ K> Florence with the letter, a copy of which 1 fend
: you ; he relrfrned at eight in the morning, with
s the answer which is enclosed. I then let out to
• join the column which was then at the gates of Leg- tri
horn. An English frigate went out of theharbonr P r
f ana ««» iimi upon, trot we were not in time. A ta
- few hours before our arrival, more than 40 Engli(h
: veflcls, i*>aded, failed from Leghorn.
I arretted the Chevalier Spannochi, the Grand ta
1 Duke's Governor of that city, who lud favored
1 the departure of the' English, who had endeavored nl
- to excite the people againll us, reprelenting to at
them the fmallnefsof our numbers, and who a few
hours before had fuffertd an English frigafe to take
e tyvo French diips under the cannon of his fort. 1 at
1 sent him off to I'lorence under the guard of his «yvn 1
' loldiers. The G. Duke has put him in prison and cr
I wit! puiiifh him severely—That officei is known in
Leghorn by his. hatred to the French ; he has com- lr
• manded a Neapolitan frigate agiiilfl us ; he is fold \ h
e to the English.— 1 ftu will find enulcted a copy at '
my letter and ihe Grand Duke's ar.fwer.
II You will find subjoined hereto the order which 1 t0
6 ' have given to the French Consul, who app<ars a ™
e man *>} probity, and one in whom confidence can "
be placed.—He has already placed seals upon the
E'iglilh magflcines, and he hopes this capture will
lie wortji feve'n or eight millions to the Republic.
| I lia condei nation at Leghorn was but moraen-
tary—the good .co|jdud of the troops hath quiet- t(
f. Ed the inhabitants. I have left there a drong gar- i
■j, rifon—and General Vaubois ta command them with a .
the encljfi'd inilrudtions.
d I left it the following day; 1 pafied through
n Florence with Berthier and a part of rny suite ; a
_ we were made moll oerfecUy welcome. The Grand
h Duke gave ui a dinner, which I thought proper to
J accept. 1 hey a(Ture hie that they have always at
• £ Florence disapproved of the condudfc of those at „
- Leghorn. The Mioifter of the Republic at Flo
r. rence lias personally aflitled tny different operations.
, 0 ihe Grand Duke, although foliciteJ on all fides
:s t0 K° awa j'« hath refufed to lend an ear to his and t
ourjenemies; he has remained fiim in his capital, t
3t surrounded by our troops, reposing himfclf upon t
le , Fiench integrity—this eonduft has given him a
:o place in my esteem. The Republic ot Lticca have I
e- voluntarily furnifhed me with 6000 fofils of which
c . the army had great need, the campaign having
fh considerably injured our arms.
(Signed) BUONAPARTE.
July.
'y ARMY OF ITALY.
ig -
tit Head-Quarters at Pidoja, June 26, 1796.
I- Buonaparte Commander in Chief of the Army of
re Italy, to his Royal H'ghnefs the Grand Duke
it of Tufcany.
• The flig of the French Republic is condantly
0 insulted in the port of Leghorn ; the property of
1 the French merchants is there violated ; each day is ,
; | tliere'marked by some attempt againll France, as '
| injurious to her interest as it is contrary to the laws
01 ;of nations. The Executive Diredlory have repeat
edly laid their "complaints before the miniller of
"» your royal Highness at Paris, who has been obliged ,
n " to acknowledge, that it was impoflible for your j
highness to reprefsthe English, and to maintain the j
neutrality of the port of Leghorn. The Execu
live Directory hath from thence tho't it to be their
)n duty to repel force by force, and to make its com (
:d merce refpefted ;it bath therefore ordered me to j
:d march a division of the atmy wlfieh J command,
be and to take possession of Leghorn.
I have the honour to inform your Royal High- 1
c- nrfs, that oif the 10th of this month, June 28,8
be division of the army will enter Leghorn ; it will j
n- conduct itfeif in that city agreeable to those princi
ill pies of neutrality which we come to maintain. The
II- fiag, the garrison, and the property of your t.oyal
highness and of your people, will be scrupulously
refpe&ed. lam moreover chafged to affuie your
royal highness of the desire which the Fiench go
vernment has of feeing the continuance of that
friend!hip which unites the two Bates, and as your
ry royal highness ha 6 daily witnessed the excefles of the
is, English vessels, without being able to *pply_,a»y re
v- medy, they are convinced you will applautl'tTie jud,
id neceifary and-ufcful measures which the Executive
?s, Directory have taken. I am with edeem and jef
n- pest for your Royal Highness.
n- BUONAPARTE.
/
Head-Qu irtcn at I.'ghorn, I 111
$ MeJJidar, June zB. Shi
Bwonapsrte Commander in Chief, &c to his Roy- Br;
al Highness the-Grand Duke of Tufci.iy.
Royal Highness, fhif
An hour before we arrived at Leghorn an En- g<d
jrlffti frigate carried off two French (hips, valued at •
500,000 livres, the governor ftiffered them tq be brij
carried off under the cannon of his fort, which is Ha
contrary to the intention of your royal lrighnefs '
and the neutrality of the port of Leghorn. I pre- a "d
sent thii compkint to your royal highness, againlt boil
this governor, who in all hisa&ions hath (bowed a con
fixed hatred against the "French, he endeavoured '
yefterdayat the moment of our arrival to raise the °f 1
people againll us, and there is no fort of ill treat- '
ment which he hath not attempted againlt our pd- Ajj
vancFd guard. 1 (hould without doubt have been hot
author/fed in trying him by martial law, but from l°d
refpett to )*>ur royal highness and from a firm per- But
foafion of the spirit of jullice which marks all your J
anions. I have preferred fending him to Florence, ( a
convulsed that you will give orders to have-him fe
, vercly ptttiifiied.
I ought at (he fame time so make my acknow- sett
to your Royal Hi°hnefs for your good- g e3
ness in directing General Storaldo to-procure for is n
the army those things which were necessary. He of 1
has fulfilled the orders of your Royal Highness infi
I with as much zeal as success. f ,c l
(Signed) BUONAPARTE. but
— in
GAZETTE FRANCOfSE, July 14.
I The citadel of Milan has surrendered to the JAs
French arms, fourteen days after the trenches were >
opened. A letter from general Defpinoy informs ]
, that he has taken 2800 prisoners, & 200,000 wt. 1
t of powder. <
The following ii a proclamation, signed 11th
j MefliJor, june 28, at 3 o'clock in t,be morning, at
, head-quarters in Milan. , r <
" The citadel of Milan will be given up to the ">g
. troops «f the French republic, with its artillery, its bai
r provifums, its magazines of all kinds, its mili- 8c "
tary ehefts and effcits, precisely at 5 o'clock in the his
j morning. As soon as the present capitulation is w '>
signed, four companies of French grenadiers will g rt
j take poffefiion of thegateof Milan, and of the baf- ce^
1 tion3 Vclafco, Do Pietro and Danigna. The gar- ot '
j rifon of the citidal (hall march out at the fame time mc
3 at the gate of Milan, aod (hall file along the glafcis P°
, of Va:ulimes, before the French troops, with the
„ hQnoursoi war, arms arid baggage only. Arrived ot
j at Puint Naviftis, they lhaJl lay down their arms, ,ul
and surrender themselves prisoners of The
j emigrants and dekrters (lull he delivered to t{ie vei
! French general. The sick and wounded (hall be 'y
treated with all the care due to humanity, and to m 2
the generous eondtnS which lias ever diitinguilhed wt
j the Fiebch nation, The garrison shall be furnifh- wa
ed with the means of tranfpor.ting their equipages
I to the place of their deflination. If any uifagree- ' ul
ment antes in the execution of the above articles, lel
! they (hail bs con'trued favourably to the French. . wl
, ■ «'• Sigf.ed, DESPINOY and LAMY." ftr
~ . at'
—x®"—- lot
MARTINSBURG, (Virg } September 8. wi
I'w.-Utey morning-came orr here, before afpecial
court, the 1 xarninatio 1 of Capt. R. Blackburn, hi
charged with the murder of Mr. George\Thotnas, vi
«t Bath. The court, which was veiy full, after ex- to
zmining a number of evidences, 3c attending to the fc
" lengthy an.! able pleadings of the counsel for the w
' Hnfoitunate prtfoner, which*continued till late last ju
evening, adjudged htm for further trial at the Dif- ti
" tiidt court to be held at Winchester the eufumg d
month, tie is to be cfcorted there this day, under
II a lining guard. ♦ ei
ir
8 " PITTSBURGH, September 10. ' n
We hear that the grand juty of this county if- f
ter completing their ordinary business, proceeded! ti
! '> to speak of a ticket for the ensuing election, when u
,n the following av?.s generally adopted.
a Governor.—Thomas Mifflin. « c
Vlf Congress.—John Woods. li
-h * Senate Thomas Morton. t
'S AlTcmhly.—Samuel ,Ewait, Ebenezer Denny, t
Three different commissioners were named, Geo. i
Adams, Nathaniel lrifh, and John Bryan. c
11 . t
GAZETTE OF Jf H E UN/TED STATES MARINE LIST j
PHILADELPHIA, September >S. '
of t
ke ( Arrived at the Fort. 1
Brig George, Marriner, Kingston (
. , Lady Walterftorff, Gutteifon, St. Croix ■- c
V Ann, Richard, y. St. Thomas <
Betsey, Enuis, |St. Auguftinc t
Schr. Kitty and Maria, Logan, Port-au Prince 1
as A brig is below—name unknown.
ws °
it * r*
SalSm, Sept. 9. 1
0 Capt. Benjamin Webb arrived since our felt in j
c the brig Sally, alter a five months from
ur Batavia.—He spoke the following vessels, the ma- |
le (lers,of which kindly supplied him with refrefh- j
u " ments, viz. I
?lr August tt,lat. 26, N. long. 57, W. thefchoon- ,
T ' er John Jay, Jofiah Buior, multer, from Boilon,
for Trinidad.
* Augult 17, lat. 30, N- long. 60, W. the schoo
ner Ha«vkc, llaac Hunt, matter, 23 days from
Philadelphia, bound to Antigua, all well.
Augult 28, lat. 37, N long. 66, 30, W. the
ship Commerce, of Netrf-Bediord, Lewis Tobey,
master, 8 days out, bound to Brazil Coalt, on a
' e whaling voyage—all well.
' a ! DISTRICT OF SALEM AND BEVERLY.
! 'y ARRIVED. from' :
ur Ship Betfity, Beffom St. Petersburg
Brig Sally, Webb Bitavia
at Neptune, Barr Litbon
ur Schooner Active, Lovett Bilboa
he
re- ' New-York, September 15.
ft, ARRIVED,
ve days
ef- Ship Margaret, Mcafe, Bourdcaux 45
Schr. Betsey, Taylor, Kingston, (Jam.) 23
Sloop Sally, Potter, r Richmond, (Viig.) 7
•
- — •>
y v ' -
\ ♦. . . r
1 f CLEARED.'
Ship Minerva, -C!?.rkfon, Amftercm
Brig Essex, Waddel!, St. Crcix
Capt. M. Auquft 10, lat. 40, long. 32; (poke
(hip Minerva, of .Salem, out 4 months from Ben
gal, bound to Hamburgh, all well. v
Augiifl 28, lat. 41, 50, long. 54, 30, spoke
; brig Trial, capt. Knox, of Philadelphia, bound to
1 Hamburgh, 15 days out, alt well.
> SejJt. 9, lat. 40, long. 72, spoke fchr. Alex
andria, capt. Newcomb of Boston, from J.imaiee,
: > bound to BoR-in, all sick but three. Capt. New
-1 comb informed capt. Mease, that the principal part
of theciewsof the brilifh ftiips at the Mole had died
. of the yellow fever.
Capt. Ware, ofthe brig Mary from Bordeaux,
Ayg. !6, lat. 39, 30, long. 31, spoke (hip Grey
-1 hound of Charleston, 180 days from Bitnvia, (eatl
1 Indies) bound to Hamburgh, captain and all hands
but seven had died.
Aug. 30, lat. 39, 40, long. 4;, spoke (hip Ivioi*
, (a Whaler) from Nantucket, 5 4 a y«. all well.
We are informed that at Sheffield in MaQV.chu
fetts, 25 milct east -ward of Kendeihook, a fever ra
. ges which cariies off numbers ; that one ot its lireett
r is nearly deserted, and flags ere&ed at the entrance
; of it ; the usual signal in New-England to denote
s infeflion to be avoided. Also that by means of a
sick person's going from thence a:.d dyingat Wood
bury, the disorder was communicated, and prevail*
in Woodbury. N. T. paper.
■ As the fate of Wefton, the great Speculator and
; Swindler, has been mentioned in some late pa
-3 pers, we (hall give our readers the following a
necdotes of this remarkable man from the Lour
don Pyblic Ledger.
, WESTON.
t The following fa&smay serve as inftanees of the
llrength of crcdit of this departed youth. Want
: ing 4 or SCOOI. he applied to a gentleman of the
s bank, faying, He had occasion for that sum for
. a few days, and that as he would place ia
: hi 6 hands, Scrip to the amount of 3® or 40,000 on
s which some payments ha« iieen made. It was a
-1 greed upon, andTVefton lodged for the loan, a por'
eel of blank paper sealed cisfcrip ! Enabled by lomc
. other fuccelslul manoeuvres, he mide the re-pay
(. ment, and received back his fupptfed valuable de
-3 posit.
e 'At another time de firous of n similar sum, he in
;) formed his patron (Mr; Cowan) that a fine oppor
tunity offeicd of nv.king a considerable per-centage,.
K Mr. Cowan listened, but aufwered it vtl% incor.-
e venieut to spare mote ihan 4or joocl. immediate
e ly. Wefton* ever prepared, tcld himne had already
u made application, and, that the house of Hoare
j would accommodate him wmU« any sum he might
want,on lodging the feenrity of government j he.
, s accordingly acceded to Welton's propofala, and
._ furoilhed him with the required sum. Wefton, pre
s tending he had lodged the script purchased there
with, brought to Mr. Cowan a seemingly legal in
strument properly executed by Mr. Hoare, and
attested by himfelf, agreeing to return tha scrip or
loan, on repayment of the advances made thereon,
with interest.
a! Mt. Cowan, well pleased, carefully loclted up in
a, his iron theft the agreement of Mr. Hoare, not ha«
s, ving the smallest doubrt of its authenticity. Strange
s- to tell 1 no fitch agreement ever existed—no fuck
ie scrip Was ever purchased. Wefton fabricated the
le whole to obtain 4006!. trom Mr. Cowan, but in
ifl jullice it must be added, that he replaced the money
if- to Mr. Cowan, and the agreement being thus re»i
ig dered a nullity, no enquiry ever ensued.
cr By ways ac.d means such as the above, he war
enabled to jobb to an amazing extent. His deal
ings in three years cannot have fallen short of one
million sterling ; his 'ciTcs in lottery insurance, at
if- Pharo, in the Alley, and Ha.zard, having amoun-"
eA ted, by his own confeffion, since conviftiun, to up- »
en wards of 53,000! I '
Confidence was the mod wonderful trait in hit
character, and though it helped him through many
hait-breadth escapes, yet how a young mind, agita
ted as his muli. have been, could attempt to facc
>y. those he so injured and so duped, is truly aftonifhr'
so. ing. The reader must have observed, that his re
quisition was generally for 4 or 50001.
t To obtain fueh a sum, he once applied to Job
ber for Sciip to a considerable amount, offering for
r payment the acceptance of Sir H. P. Walter s.
they were taken and the scrip delivered. A fewr
days before, the drafts became due, he applied again
to the broker, begging au exchange of Sir H. P.-
Walters drafts for the fame amount, at a few days
lon date, dtawn by him on Mr. Cowan's banker ; thi*
oix ■ also was dhne, and though Mr. Cowan was ignorant,
nas of the tranfa&ion, he had the resolution to invites
me the broker and his family to a meeting »f convivia
ice lity with Mr. Cowan and hisfamily at his chamber*
—and, notwithflanding the probability and danger
of an explanation between the parties, which must
have destroyed him, he left them together for a con*
ln liderable time. Nothing transpired at this meeting.
om But the loan has been, and {till is, a mbjedt of
na " litigation ; tlie Scrip was fold, and the produce dif
'"l" iipated by Wefton; and it remains for the Bench.
to determine, who is to fuffer the loss, Mr. Cowam
on " or the Broker.
on,
00 . . THIS BAT IS PUBLISHED,
om By W-. Youno, Mills and Son,
[Price $octs. in boards, 61 i-l neatly bound]
the An Apology for the Bible,,
e y- In a Jeries of Letters,
1 a AddrelTed to Thomas Paine, author of a book entitled
The»f Reajort, part the fecand, being an in
jY. . vejligation of true and fabulous theology.
om' By R. WA'i'SON, D. D. F. K. S. Lord Bishop o£
urg LandafT, and Regius ProfefFor of Divinity
lv l a in the University of Cambridge.
Son Se P r - l - tu^f6
boa For Boston,
The Schooner Olive,
ays Percc Driokwater, master, will pefi-i
J . t'vely (ail on Tueftiay the 10th mft.
45 having part of her cargo engaged. For freight or paffagi
23 apply to J. JENKS,
) 7 S«pt-. 16. jo, North watcr-ftrect*"» / '
■ Samuel R-'chaidet, k^i*,
Respectfully informs ihe Gentlemen theun
Merchants, thit he has this day opened the CITY legal r<
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFF£E HOUSE in the sri
city of Philadelphia; f® 1 ?* 1(
The Subfcriprion Rooni will be furaiftied with all the "any
daily papers publiihed in Philadelphia, New-York, Brff- P u J* c " e
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com- ™
merciai citi«s of EuVope—They will be regularly filed U - 1
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice-Creams, and a variety medial
of French Liquors; together With-the ufuai refrefhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may cfepend on being accommodated with
thechoileft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the moil
approved Malt Liquors from London apd other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
produ&ions of the Season. r
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be J
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at of
hours mod conv nient to thetnfelves—a cold Collation is tht
regularly k«pt for convfcniency, the Bill of Fare to be had _—
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
the utmoft-attcntion paid to eleanlinefs, and every other
requifitc.
Samuel Richardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
larg£; and with gratitude far their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part fhalibe wanting to pre- 3
fervethat patronage/with whioh he has been so diftinguifti
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
City cf Washington. J ;
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magrtfficent ) 20,000 dollars, &") ooQ
dwclling-houfe, 3 305000, are J 5 2(
I ditto 15,000 & cad* 25,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cafb 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000 3:
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000 a
1 cafh'prize of 10,000
2 do. 5,000 each, are ■ 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
20 do. 500 - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000 3
200 do. 50 - • 10,000
400 do. 25 - 10,000
1,000 do. 20 - 20,000 I
15,000 do. 10 • 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,261 Rlanks.
.50,000 Tickets, it Eight Dollari, 400,000
N. B. To Civouj those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize 0f40,000 dollars will be theLAST drawn J
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money j
or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received for J
any number not less than 30 tickets. J
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpecimcn of the pri- j
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Washington— j
Two beautiful designs are already felefled for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it is propoftd to ereel two centre and four corner buildings,
is soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey 5
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the mannerdefcribed in the fchemcfor the Hotel Lottery. I
A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will be made to defray ,
the neceflary expenfeg of printing, &c. and the surplus!
will be madea part of the fund intended for thcNational
University, to be erected within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prizes will payable in thirty days I
after it is finifhad ; and any prizes for which fortunate I
cambers ate not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be considered as given towards
the funi for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the eidihg of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security. J
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes, 1
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a- j
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
this late Comxniffionefs a (lifted in the managemen: of the I
Hotel Lottery are requefledto undertake this arduous task
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num
,ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends'to a National University and the other federal ob
jects may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the difierent parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are allured that the
drawing will speedily commcwe, and that the care and
caatior. unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of I
the tickets, has rendered the inorr fufpe.nfiou indifpenlable. 1
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may he had at th,e Bank of Columbia ; o j
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boston I
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Coooer's Ferry. eo
Lands of the United States
Trea ury Department, dugujl 3, 1796. j
Public Notice is hereby Given,
JN pursuance of an aSt of Congress, patted on the lßtli I
day of May, 1796, entitled " An a& providing" for j
the sale of the lands of the United States, in the Territo- I
ry north weft of the river Ohio, and above the mouth of j
Kentucky river," that the fe&ions or lots o£ land defcri- J
bed in the annexed schedule, lying in the seven ranges of j
town {hips, which were furveyedin pursuance of an ordi- I
nance of Congress, p:\ffed on the twentieth-day of May, I
in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, I
will he exposed for sale at Public vendue, in the town ol j
Pittfburghin on the tweaty-lbiirth day of I
O&obernext, and thenceforward, from day to day until!
the fir ft day of December ensuing, unless the said lots lhall 1
be sooner fold, in the manner;and on the terms and con- |
- ditions herein a/ter mentioned, to wit : 1 f
ift. The said fe<flions or lots lhall be fold v.nder the di-1
region ©f the Governor or Secretary 06 the Western Ter- I
ritory, and fuck person as the President of rhe United I
States mayfpecially appoint for that furpofe.
2d. ihe laid ie&ions or lots fliall be (old to the highest I
bidder,but 110 sale Can be made for less than two dollars I
per acre of th« q*iantity of land contained in fiich lot or 1
ieAion. 1
3. The highest bidder as beforoanentioned.mnft depo- l
fit at the time of sale, one twentieth, part of the purchase j
TOoncy, in the hands of such person as the President of the j
United States lhall appoint to attend the sales for that pur- j
poQ", which will be forfeited, if a moiety of the sum bid, |
mcluding the said twentieth fuall not be paid witnin j
thirty t&ys from the time of sale.
4th. IJpc-n payment of a moiety of the purchase money I
in the manner before mentioned, the purchaser wßt be ]
entitled to one year s credit for the remaining moiety ; 1
an 4 'lhall rcceive from the Governor er Secretary of die!
Western Territory, ana the person who (hall bt;appointed |
by the President of the United States, todirc& ihe lale»,a l
ctxtiGcite defcribxbg tho lot or f :»Jiion purchalx'd,aiid de- j
faring thefum paid on account, the balance remain mg due,!
rhe time when iuch balance fcecomet payable, aid that!
ih land therein mentioned f wi»l tc feifated, if the |
f•! is riot then p/.d ; >>«*'» the faii ra'.ance fa" L
he dulydifcharged.hy paying thefaijic tothe Trearurer e* r
the United States, the pntehafer or his aflignce or otlie
legal representative, Siall be entitled to a patent »ur
said lands, or. his producing to the Secretary of State a re
ceipt for such balance endorsed upon the certificate. -
: if any purchaser shall make payment of the whole ot t . y rJpu
purchase money, at the time when the payment ot t J
.' firft moiety is direfied to be made, he will be enat ° f^lc
1 deduition of ten per centum on th; part for waicn a non h.i
dit is authorized to be given; and his patent fhi. ~ KePv 11'
, mediately iffuad. , dekrih
) '. Given under mjr hand at Philadelphia, the day ■ es ot t
year above mentioned. ordina
OLIVER WOLCOTT, °
Secretary of the Treasury %
.he M
* Schedule of fed'wnt of town/hips, or fraßional farts day 01
e of townjhips, to be fold at Piufburgh, inpurjuanci ft(
lt of the 6tb feSion of an aH of Congress, pijjed on on th
is tbe lSth dtiy of May, 1 I " : '
d -highe
- J g dollai
■r f 2 i U 4 tt |
• < v < 2 6 < 2 pent
A £ 2 jz chafe
it ' State
:S ift Range. 6thTownfhip 6th Rangi;. inc l u
ift Township. Bau64ojeach ift 'I ownlhip. thirt;
j. j8 56j 64c j 17 310 3d
29 256 95 i*7aao 640 each ig J7O ney i
30 150 75 64o!each ,21 8 5° beet
— 34 240 90 BthTownfhi'p. ' 22 166 40 and I
35836 640 each 3ai4)64° eac h ! 417
2d Township 17320'640 each j *4 640
19 140 23 640 '27 151 80
' 20 170 70 25330 64oeach 28a3©:64oeach tione
21 185 33336 640cach j 33 58 P a ";
22 230 jothTownfhip. 343361640 each P*)" 1
25 488 80 ia2 1640 each 2d Township. fl-'aU
26a27 64oeach 5314 640 each 1 126 j^ cil
s8 560 i7a20'640 each 2 440 enJo
29 55 1 60 2333.61640 each 3 448 mak(
30 564 i2thiTownfliip. 4 456 t ; me
640 each iai4 64c each 5 464 w
4thTownlhip. 17320 640 each 6 471 centl
19 6 4 133361640 each 7 340 givei
15 640 8314 640 each
26 387 60 17220 640 eauh
27 36 «T" :»3a3»«4o«ch
31332 640 each \ * , 3 . 5 3d Township.
33 616 30 4o 1 4 ?°
34 445 20 3 4 2 478
35336 640 each 3
5 3 thlow„fhi P . 4 £4 of(
6 ° h i J lO ua.
12 479 30 3 *2Q 7ax 4 640 each -
17 304 15 ' J 17320 640 each
x 8 63850 5 3 e , 640 each
2 3 450 7-5 I 9" 'Ac s th Townfhip?
° f 14 6 o° 14 540 1 5 18 M
H \l 110 17320 S'toeach » 526 c
isy -hi 80 13336 640 each 3 534
s 36 8 ° UdTowXp. 4 «8
— i3i4 64oe3ch ■> 54 Q .
r i_ i 2d Ravge. 17320 64o'e3ch 55° >2
_„P ift TownfMp. 23336 640 each 73i46 4^each
281 71 20 s thTownfhip. 640 each
igs! 34 1 6|jo i3i 4 |64o|each 3664^ h —
gs, 3d Township. 17a2d!S4o'each /'"Township. 2
:ey 24326 640 e3ch 23 336,640 each 1 S°°
in 28 499 16 7thTownfhip. 2 s7 ' 40
ry. 29 640 ia2 64o(each 3 57 °
rQ y 64c e3ch 537 640 each' 4 5®5 00
lus 4thTownfhip. 12313 640 each! { 5' 3
nai II 26 40 18319 640eaehj " al - , ' 3
X 2 397 5° 25 640 7314 640 each
13 51 50 30336 640 each '7320640 each
a J 15 2750 9 thTownfhip. *3>3«|6 4 0 each
"' I 16 259 20 iai4|6 4o |each Township.
rds 17 544 17320'640each 1214 640 each
ttl 18 64c 23336 6 4 oleach '7320
„ 1963; ,«hTownfhip. 336 640 each
20. 584 80 iai4 64o'each uthTownfhip
ses, 1 11 | 6 3<> 21 17320 64o|e3ch ***4 «4ojeaeh
ink 2233:6 640 each 23136 640 each 17320j640.each
a . sthTewn!hip .l3thTownfiiip. 23336 640 each
5 636 1314 640 each l3thTown(h,p.
tof 637 64G each 17420 640 each 131464 c each
the 23325 6 4 r - each 23336640 each I 7 a ic 640jeath
task 27318 644- ach , = 23336 640' each
um -ach s'li Range. Is thTownfhip.
the 7thTownfhip. I -ownlhip. iai4]64o|cach
ob- 3 16401 18 3 74 40 17320(640 eseh
BthTownfhrp || " 8 7 50 23336 64o;each
the 135 640 each 427 5° 7 fh rXnOE.
W\ 6 4AC llt ift Township.
j 73 14 640 cac I- 6 70 Jo ,JO
sos 17320 640 e3oh 27 394 20 j, 32 i 5<J A
. J 2333-6 64oe»ch 28 |6 0 4 -dTownfhip
ble " 9 thTownfhip. 2 9 130 640 each 2d lo*n ».p. .
6 640 31 i 8 ■„ I' di
fel 1 8 1 3a 536 640 each
| 13414 640 eac M To 10 ai2 640 each
19420 640 each 1 18020
, | 23336 64ojeach 3 43° I7al ß 640 each
3d Range. 5 45 6 19 '4
ad Tpwnlhip. 6 464 80 20 4 9*>
15 640 ' 7 25c 23324 640 each
:Bth 16 600 8 618 25 38c
fori 20 557 50 9314 640 each 26337 040 wch
ito- j 21 a 22 640 each] 17 sac 64c each 4th J ownlhip.
hof 23 609 12^3361640each I3i4|64deach
fcri- 25336 640eachi 4th i ownfhip. »7320 640,e3ch
£s of j 3dTownlhip. iai4 640 each a
"■di- 9 i 7 a2o64oeach 6thlownfhip.
10 344 ' U3336 64oe3ch iai4)64o,each
fivc - II 267 6thTownfhip. 17320|6 4 0ie3ch
I 12 152 1 314 6 4 oleach |23336 6 4 o|each
?i I 202 -5° 1 7 a2c 540i2ac}i ! 2thTown(hip.
fS 15 630 23336 640 ,ach i 1314 640 each
IBau j 16318 640 esch I BthTownfhip. »7«c 640 e3ch
l<) 217 50 1314 64oe»ch |2 3a36|64cieach
e di-1 2° 616 75 1732064 c e3cbi: Ict "Township.
Xer-| 213361640 each 23336 640 each 1 1 a l4|64cieach
nited I 4thTownfhip. UothTownfhip. : I 7 a 2p 640 esch
I 170 iai 4 j64ojeach '233361640^25 h
gheft I 2 544 |i7aaC; 64okach lithTownfcip.
oilan 1 3 320 ■ | 23336 64cleaoh ; 1 314164c,each
lot or I 4 450 IjiathTownfhip. ; I 732c|j4o|;3ch
5 no j 13141640! each 23a3 6 ! 6 4cieach
depo- i o 640 Hi7a2c|64o|eaeh j l 4th 1 ownfhip.
rciiafe I 7 563 . 1233,36p40|e3ch i I3i4j64c|each
of the! 8a 9 640 each'^thTownfhip.'*732o 6 4 ot3ch
ipur-l 10 L- 4 c 2o 1 iai 4 |64o(e3ch 2 3336 64c each
II hid, J II '529 70 17320 640 each iWnTpwnSiip.
vitnin J 12314 64c each 23336J64c|each la l4 640 each
I 1732 c 640 each 17320 640 e3th
money! 336)640 each i 23336 640 each
nil be 1
°iety 1 NOTE.
, THEq««nllties o! Lands in the fcveral townfhins be
,ZT, focniiooal, xvcxcMvt ot the Lots referred by the
! j I t,n ttdStat " and also cf thofc formerly fold —The ae
r quantities i, A. fcveral townfhirs or frafiiontl
l ?T C ' j paruof townfliips, have been ascertained by adtual fcr
thet"Dl^eVn or feclioti have
•, -f tne I bcMi eo wherwifeafcertaniad than by calculation.
Lands of the United States.
Treasury Department
Jugujl 8, 1796. a
Public Notice U hereby given, «
» 6# -»« »«
" -? -
Tn®""*" l *" f l "'
unfit a' the time of sale, one twentieth past of the pur
chase money, in the hands of the Treasurer of the United
= States which will he forfeited if a moiety of the mm, b.d,
including the said twentieth part, lhall not -e paid wi.hm
thirty days from the time of tale. •
,d. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchafc-mo
ney in the manner befor-mentioned, the purchaler w.il
be entitled to one year's credit for the remaining moiety ,
and fliall receive a certificate defcribiog the quarter town
fliip purchased, and declaring the sum paid on, a "° UHt _>
the balarice remaining due, the time when such bala -
becomes payable, and that the whole Land, therein men
tioned will be if the said balance is not then
paid : but if the said balance frail be duly diicharged, by
paying the Tame to the Treasurer of the United States,
the purchaser or his aiTignecor other legal reprefent«,ve,
shall be entitled to a patent for the said land, on his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
endorfedupon the certificate. But if any purchaler shall
make payment of the whole of the. pwchaftf; money at the
time when the payment of the firft mowty is diredted to
be made, he will be entitled to a dedu&ien of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to be
given ; and his patent (hall be immediately lflued.
GIVEN under nay han4 at Philadelphia,, tha day
and year abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
SCHEDULE
Of Quarter-Townlhips to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
suance of the 6th fedion of an aft of Congress passed on
the 18th day of May, 179®*
— ""J '• T~
& ■§-
» s ■=
D. u 5
« S «| .a |
I* * "
& C r° » »" 'S
U, H V X a
" ' - jj g "
„• O - < 3 C
55 4 3 -3
o , ©
p
-2 ISouth East' 5 120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,48®
3 5 South East 5120
1 North East 5120
1 South Weft 5120
1 North Weft 5120
• • 20,480
7 South East 512 a '
, North East 5120
!. South Weit 5 120
h North Weft 5120
h 20,480
g South East
'/ North j 120
South Weft 5120
h North Weft 5120
>. 20,480
h 11 South East 5120
h North Eal! 51 20
South Welt 51 20
North Weft 5120
——1— 20,480
4 4 South Eafti 51 20
North East 5 120
■ South Weft 5 120
North Weil ji 7"
h 20,480.
€ South East 5120
h North'Eaft 5120
, South Weft j 120
North Weft 5 120
1 I
K 8 South East 5120 |
lN >rt.h East 5120
H South Weft; 5120
*• North Weft SAO
f 20,480
10 South East. 5120
jp. North East 5 120
ch Sonth Weft 5 120
ch North Weft 5120
ch ! . 20,480
'P- 12 South East 5120
c , North East; 5120
South Weft 5120
ip. North Weft: 5 1 20
ich 1 '20,480
ich 5 3 South East' 4602 !
'.ch North East 4654
'P - South Welt 5120
North Well 5120
ich * 19>49 <5
lip. 5 Squ'h East J 120
ich North East 5120
ich South Weft 5120
\ c k North Weft 5120
ach' ~ 20 '4 ? °
ach 7 South East 5120
lc li North East 5120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5 1 20
|>P* he- 20,480 j
dby the .5 Siuth East 51 20
T^ a «: North East 5120
■actional 0 1 «« r »
stir- south Weft 5120
ij have North Welt 5120
- t 20,480 j
3. .
D. %
Vi cn • —
a. c 5
• . — .1-
' bC . « b i ~i'
S •= * O £
ci <£ a i 2 H
= Eh V o -
• ■ 1 - 5 -2 3
« ■£ =3
o H t: s _
Z =i -•=
a S-a
' c
5 11 South East 5 120
North East 5 120 !
South Weft 5 120
North Weft c f zo
i
20,480
l 13 ISouth jgtft 5120
I fNoith Esft 5120
ISou'll-WPR g-t-t* •—i I
North Waff jtzo I
3 ■ I rs
[! _ — . 20,4.80
6 4 South palt 4630
> North Eafi 4620
South We!i 5 120
j d North Weft 5 1 20
ri ' '9.49°
6 South East 4730
North East 47 1 5
II South Weft-5 120
' North Weft 5 I 20
£ - — -19.685
ce 8 [South East 5120
a- .North East 5120
:n 'South Weft 5 120
| North Weftiji 20
Z I __ — 20,480
0- 10 South East ji2o
North. Eaftlc 120
l " South Welti J 1 20
• North Welt 5*20
er I 20,480
be 12 South Eaft|5 120
North Ealt 54-20
ay , South Weft 5 1 20
9L : ,
— —— 20,480
14 South Eafi 5120
North East 5.13s
South Weft 5 120 ♦
ir . North Weft 5 120
on 20,480
1 3 South EaH 5120
?= Notth East 5120
South Weft 51 20
North Weft 5 1 20
20,480
5 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5 12©
North Wei! 5120
j 20,480
7 South East 5120 1
s=r North Eilft 5 I 20|
. South Weft 5 [ 201
North Weft 5 120
20,480
9 South East 5120
North East 5120
South W«J- 5 i_io . • - e
North Weft 5120
20,480
11 South East 5 120
North East 5 i 20
' South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5 120
—; 20,480
13 South East 512-0
North East 5 1 20
South Weft 5 1 2Q
North Welt 5120
20,480
15 South East 5 120
North East 5 120
South, Weft 5 i 20
Nor.h Weti 5 120 i
I 20,480
NOTE.
THE quantities of Lands in the several townships bff*
fore mentioned, are excl«s.ire of the Sect ons reserved by
the United States. The aggregate quantities is the fjve
ral townships, have been ascertained by actual survey ; but
the quantities in the quarter tewnfliips. have been f.o _
,1 UL I, 1 11l 1 1.-JlllJ U.J.. IJJ IJULIIUiIJ...
Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
WHEREAS the State o'f Maryland has authonfed
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix th'ouland,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
! a Canal through the City of Washington, frosi th Poj
| . tomac to theEaltern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -i Prize of ao,ooo doiiars, 2,0,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 laft drawn") MJEWO
Tickets, each J i
6 ditto 1,000 6jOCO
10 ditto 4°° 4> co3
20 ditto 100 a,OOO
55 ditto 50 2,75°
5 750 ditto 12 69,00$
To be raised for the Canal, 36,25°
j 5850 Prizes, 175j 000
1165 c Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175*°°?
The Commiflroners have taken the Securities rc
quired by the aforefaid adl for the p ungual payment o
the prizes. f
The drawing »f this Lottery will commence, witnou
delay, as jfoon as thp Tickets arc XoM, us >viiien timeif
1 notice will be given* ,
Such prizes as are not demanded In fix months after tne
drawing is finifhed, shall be considered as relinquiihetyO
the benefit of t,he Canal, and appropriated accordingly*
/Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CAItROLL, e/D>
) LEWIS DEXLOiS,
GEORGE WALKER.
WM. M. DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY,
j City of• Washington, Feb. H. 5
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN N0»
—No. 119 —
I CHESDWT-STRIET.
j JPticv Eight Dollar• per j4hjuu*-J