• -
of the Ulllitetl & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
_•%. • - 1 •
\Nvmser 12.56. SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 17, 1796. ,\Vqlumz X.
' 1 " """" '— ■ "i « 1 1 ■ _ . - » 1 ■ . /• i r~i • f*
For Boston,
The Schooner Olive, *
Peres Driakwater, matter, will pe£- I
V ' * :** , tivcly fail on Tucfday the 20th mft
havtag part of h«r cargo engaged. For freight or passage 0o
apply to J. JENKS, g
Sept 16. No. 70, North water-il rcet. p or
—~—. — ——- ————
For Norfolk and Baltimore, s^v
The Sloop NONPAREIL, receiv
JOHN HAMLYN, Matter, from]
Will fail in all this week. For freight Sep
and palfage ; apply te the Capt. on board, _
North fide of JESSE and ROBERT,
~~- Wains wharf, or to the Subscribers, J £
Who have now landtag from J,'aid Shop,
A few Hhds. of proof Antigua RUM.
The NONPAREIL is intended as a constant trader, be
tween Baltimore and Philadelphia, il suitable encouragement
is received.
LEVI HOLLINGSIVORTH, & SON.
September 13, 1796. S 5'
FOR LONDON, '
The capital (hip CERES,
o- To fail soon :—For freight or paflage
apply to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or For
John Vaughan, Pl
September io. , Front-street.
FOR SALE, Abi,c
The Schoorfer LARK, A bii>
Qne fjundred and twenty tons burthen.
A new velTel well found, well built, & _ . '
fails extremely fact. For terms apply Bpu J.
t« -the mafier on board, or to Brov
fafph 'ifittbvnj *fr~G+~
If the above vefTel is not fold in a few days, fhc will Char
take freight on very low terms for Boston. Cine:
Sept. 10. Cum
— Dam
For Sale or Charter, I Dow
1 Fran
BOSTON, Gre<
BURTHEN about 1000 Bbls. of flour—Die may be sent G^(
to sea at a small expence, her fails and rigging being in Gre(
good order—apply to , „
James Campbell, or
' George Latimer. dof.
i Har
FOR SALE, Thu
CfeL The ship STAR,
Mg&£R| John Vanneman, Matter,,
A T T'N G at Walnut-ftract wharf, Philadei-
I 1 phia built, of live oak and cedar, will J
™ y about 3100 barrejf, is two years old, and in com- the
nlea- order to receive a cargo—For terras apply to No.
plea, order to TH & OS. & JOHN KETLAND. *
Who have also for sale said vessels cargo—confilling of— fott
Wine and Porter bottles, S
— WiJ 9, fn ift by Tl. 1
Pipes in boxes
Earthen-Ware in crates.
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, &c.
Aug.ag 1_ in l
~~ At South-street wharf,
WII.L BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft. August,
by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and Coop Sally,
from l'ort-au-Prince,
•joo Hhds. COFFEE,
70 Hhds. SUGAR.
Also, the cargo of the Sivedijh brig Gujlaf Adolphc,
capt. Ramfre, from Gibraltar,
rfl and 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds. _
Hazle Nuts in sacks
St. Übes SALT, for sale by 1
PETER BLIGHT. *
>—a For Charter, x
JWWvjt"" Thefaidbrig
GUSTAF AdOLPHE, file
A Swede, with a Mediterranean pass, mi
. a very fi ne veflel, about joo tons bur- fto
.ben. Aug. .8. „ £
For Sale or Charter, ca
P—l_ THE FAST-SAILING SHIP P c
LIGHT-HORSE, | a h
LYING at Mess. J. &R. Wain's wharf, yi
♦^tuS"and seventy tons burthen, a stout, strong til
vessel, and well fsund. For terms apply «° °
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Sept. T. — i g 1
— INDIA SALES. »
» /-vN Thursday the aid inft. at 10 o'clock, A. M. wil, S
O be fold at '.he stores qf Willings and francs, a large d
quantity of INDIA GOODS, imported 111 the Ganges, ._
|i from Bengal, confilling of w
iO(?o pieces Gurrahs
ioco do. Bifras, different kinds r
3500 do. Coffas, do. 0
450 do. Humhum*,do. , „
600 do. Patna hdkfs. for women c
100 ho. Addacies e
go do Table cloths
300 do. Emerties b
So do. Punjums f
' -560 do. FineJVlulmuls t
T. 0,0 do. Fine Dacca hdkfi. r
ICO do. Worked Muslins c
100 do. D ore as t
tco do. Book Muslin a*
TOO do. black and iolored Pcrfians or Taffet.es
j 20D do. Bandannoes, chocelate, red and blue ,
140 do. Choppa RomaW ' (
40 quarter cases of Hyfort Tea of goad quality j
An Souchong j
The coarse goods will be fold by the bale, the taffeta,
rKSS:»a,,;
previous to the sale. JQHN cqmnELLY, Aaioneer.
September 8. - - . : 1
DTlTolution of Partnerlhip.
ip.t-tnrrlbip between ROBERT ANDKEWS
«V* s\ti\A PTIF ni r H, under the firm of ANDRtwa
nA big d.tlvcd Ml perfen, who are
indemed to, o, who have claims
rcqjefied to apply ior a'nQRHWS,
No. 86, So. Whaivet.
f d tf
Sept.6,l79S.
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent, p
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lis
bon, landing at t.he fubfciibers wharf— . ,
28 Pipes of Brandy A til
18 Bales of Spanish wool
3 do. of Annifeed jjigV
7000 BuQiels of belt Lilbon Slit the So;
80 Boxes of Lemons {1011 of
For sale by WILLINGS k FRANCIS. Aj>p
A L S O,
Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SyCARS*,
received by the ship Domlnick Terry, Capt. De Hirt,
from Kingston. Sept
Sept. 13. d
JUST ARRIVED, from Lisbon, A"
And fer Sale by the Subfcribcrs, MelFrs
Lisbon Wine, no^
' lo pipes and quarter-cases ; p
5000 Bushels Lisbon Salt.
Jeffe & Robert Wain.
Sept. 10. . dtf
M AILS, 2'
r For the following Post Offices, -will be closed at U 1
Philadelphia ON Friday ifternoon at sun-set
Mails from the fame Pojl- Offices will arrive on
Fridiy morning— -
Abbotflown, P. Hanover, P. IPITTSBIIRG, P. jy
Abingdon, Va. Hagerftown, Md. Rockinghamc.h.v 'j
Bardftown, K. Harrodfburg, K. Sharpfburgh, Md- q
Bedford, P. Hancock, Md. Shepherdftown, Va • q
, Bathc.h. Va. Jonefboro', Ten. SpringfielJ, K. J
" Bourbon, K. Knoxville, Ten. Stevtnfburgh, Va. j.
Brownfville t P. Lancaster, P. Strafburg, Va. H
r»T ® ' Va. Utaunaaa,VaL. , -t- I
ill Chamhefiburg, P. Cfenngten, K. ISweei bprings,Va. .
Cincinnati, n. w. t. Lexington, Va. Taney-Town, Md. j
Cumberland, Md. K. Union, P. fof
~ Danville, K. Marietta, n. w t. Wifh;ngt6n, P, Atlf
Downingtown, P. Millerfiown, P. Washington, K.
Frankfort, K.' Martin&urg, Va. Williamsport, Md.
Fredericktn. Md. Montgomery, cv. Winchester, Va.
Morgantown, Va. Weft Liberty, Va.
Greenfburg, P. Nalhville, K. Wheeling, Va.
Gettifbtirg, P. Mew-Market, Va. VVoodftock, Va.
n Greenbrier c.h. v. Oldtown, Wythe c. h. Va.
111 Greencvjlle, Ten. Peterfburgh, P. |York P.
The MAIL from Lancafler, P. arrives at Philadelphia,
every Monday, Wednefd.y and Friday, at 6 P.M..and
closes at Philadelphia the fame davs, at 7 P. M-
The MAIL for Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon, and
" HarrUburg, will close at Philadelphia, every Tucfday,
Thursday and Saturday, at 7 P. M.
General Poll-Office, September 13,1796. d 4t.
el- Washington Lottery. ju
rill THE Twentieth and Twenty-firft Days' Drawing of
m- Wafltington Lottery, No. s, are received at the office At
No. 234, Market-street, where tickets may be examined. rl
N. fy- Inlormatian given where tickets in all the other m
— lotteries may be procured.
September IJ, 1796.
1 FOR GALE, I'l'ti
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, into
f in pipes and hogsheads • corj
— Claret, genuine old, in cases prot
Gin, in pipes, from Holland to at
. Earthen Ware, in crates A
" ' Basket Salt, in hogsheads ■
y ' Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Raffia, in barrels \
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas, IS
; Tin plates—Ah invoice Stationary! by will
>be ' TIIOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. Sat,
July *<) $
A very valuable Merchant Mill, p J
A DISTILLERY and BREWERY, and sundry STONE
QUARRIES to be let
I will rent my merchant Mill at the little Falls of Po
towmac, for any term not less thanfeven, r.oi mors than
eleven years, from the firll day of September next. The
>afj, mill-house is 41 by 40 feet, three stories high, built with <-p
bur- stone, and has in it three pairs of French Burr Stones, two i 1
u . overlhot 18 feet water-wheels, and .Evans's machinery jQ f
complete, with every other thing proper and neceifary for anc
carrying on the bulinefs with dispatch, and at as little ex- pof<
penfe as possible, all in good order.—From the mill to my all 1
landing on the Potomac river, (-.vhrre craft, of any bur- kep
then may dsliver grain and take in flour) it is about 40 °, ut
barf, yards, and from thence by water to George-Town and | '> es
rung the City of WafhingtoH, about 3 miles, and to Alexan- sol
drii about !i miles. This situation, aided by a fufficient
capital, will command the produce of a very extensive
back country, where Urge quantities of wheat and other
grain is annually made, the distance to it being from 8
to 10 miles less than to any market town upon the navi
, gation of the Potowtnac. There are on the premises a
1 ' large stone Coopers' (hip, a stone granary, and acommo-
3 C s house. At the landing aferefaid a bridge
"8"' is now building over the Potomac, which is in (rreat for
wardnefs and probably will be finithed the ensuing fall.
There are also 09 the premises, a Brewery and Distille
ry, built with stone, in them are three stills, two coppers
or boilers, with every necessary article, all new, and in
good order, and fufficieotly large to carry on the Brew
erjuind Distillery upon a very extehfiye plan. This prop
erty 1 will rent for the fame term of years.
Upon my lands adjoining the premises, and along the
banks of the river, 'where craft may lead with ease and dif- *%
patch, is an i nmenfe quantity of building and founda- !
tion-ftones. Four quarries are now open, and as many j
more may be opened with ease 1 the stone taken from these ! p
quarries is better, and has the preference at this market,
to any other stone brought to it. I will rent these quarries c
fcparately or together as may best suit. jot
5 On the top of the hill, and about 100 yards from the c
mill, is a stone Dwelling-hoUse, large enough for the ac- !r
commod'ation of a familJ: also, a kitchen, dairy, smoke- fe
V lioufc, &c. and a garden, enc ofed and in cultivation, the
foi of'which is equal in goodness to any in this state. I
aftetas wil i a lso rent this property. J „
:as 5 Adjoining to the Brewery and Distillery is a Smith s £
ldwill fliop, in which is a complete set of Blacksmith's tools, )(
which 1 will also rent, and if agreeabie I will hire to the
M da y tenant two negro black&r.iths, one of them is a complete 0
workman. . # a
eer# [{ I rent out the stone quarries, I will fell three craits, r
vy-hich were built for the purpose of carrying stone : they
will altogether bring upwards of 90 perch Immediate
jnd poffcflion will be given. For terms apply to the fUbfcrib
,F,v's er in this town.
The Mill, Brewery and Distillery, with the.r appurten
f»° are ances, will be delivered to the tenant or tenants in good
1 a ' re pair, and must be so returned, at the expiration 01 the
leaf* or leak's
: (t PlilllP RICHARD FEND ALL.
1 tf Alexandria, Aug. 16— tjj W
>i- For Sale,
(In an excellent situation for bulinefs,)
A three-flory brick House and Lot of
Ground, A
Eighteen feet front and twenty-five feet.in depth, on s e p,
the South fide of Market near Front-street, now inpoffef-
fioii of Samuel Read.
•Appiy to /
Israel Pleafants, or 9
Charles & Joseph Pleafants,
Sept. r.v dtf Sep!
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut R
street, between Fron< and Second ftrcets, in which
Metfrs. James Calbraith &Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on bulinefs. 40 ' '
Poffedion will be given in one month, or sooner. I Cai
For terms apply to WILLIAM BEI.L, or i Dit
HECTOR CALBRAITH. I Dii
April *L § 1 2-'
— — I Dn
A Book-Keeper,
/\R Clerk's placc is wanted'by a person properly quali-
vy fi s d, and whose charaiSler will be found unexception
able. Apply to the Printer. Of
r Aug. II s_. Houfc
; Dutch Goods, _ F i=
Received by the Pennsylvania, .from Arrflerdam. G
GIN, in pipes
Morlaix ")
v T ifklenburgs > In Bales /l n dj
Ofnaburgs J a
Hacrlem } in
Hollands 7 DUCK, in ditto
Ravens j .
r- j: ";- Ben
i ?££" }
For Sale by THOMAS W JOHN KETLAND.
Att?. 19 §
d. Sales of India Goods. And
The Cargo of theihip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF Lad
A Large and general assortment Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
ia ,' A variety fine worked and plain Muslins, B ioo<
Doreas, Itfc. Also,
nd A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
iy, In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER, Bein;
For Sale by
Willings Francis,
No. 21 Penn Street.
June 8 §
tic! At a special meeting. of the Board of Di
ed. reStnrs for i/Jlabliking ufeful Manufactures, holden
ller • at Pater.fan, 'July 8, 1796,
r) ESOI.~V£D, That a special meeting of the Stock-
,"v holders of the Society be called on the firlt Monday, |—I
l;tidg the third ay of OAober 'next, atPatcrfon, by ten
of the clock of the mrd tK.r. >f' t f-- y
lid, confukraticn the propriety of dissolving the said
corporation, agreeably to the law in such cafe made and
provided —and the Stockholders are earr.cftly requested g
to attend the said meeting in person or by proxy. 11
Aug,ll 17 dtjOthO
' "hTbernian society.
A QUARTERLY MEETING of the Hibehnian I j-
Socie'i v for the Relief of Emigrants from Ireland, s
will held at Mr. M'Shane's tavern, in Third-street, on -j
). Saturday the 17th inll. at seven o'clock in the Evening. ;
j Matbsif Caret, Sec'ry. I 1
September 13, 1796. d J I
P. S. It i 8 particularly rcquefted the meipbers will be J
piineHinl in their attendance. '
INF ■ I
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Po-
The Notice is hereby Given, j
with 'p>H AT agreeably to en aft of Congress of the United
two 1 Slates of America, passed at Philadelphia, the ißih day
nery jQ f Mav, 1796 i laying duties 011 Carriages, for the convey- I
y for a,ice of pcrtons, and repealing the former acts for that pur
e ex- ' pole.—That .here (hall be levied, collected and paid, upon
omy all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which (hall be
bur- kept bv or lor any person, for his or her own use, or to let
t 40 out to hire, or for the conveying of paffengcr., the levcral du.
1 and ' ( ' ts an d rates following, to wit. I O
n - For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
'. upon evel y Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chariot, it doll.-
' ve upon every Post Chaile, 12 dols. ; I
ut "er , U p Qn evcl y phaeion, with or without top, 9 doll j -
om 8 upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
navi- upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work above, j
ifes a w iih blinds, glaffesor curtains, g dols.
nmo- upon four wheel carriages, having framed polls and |
ridge ' top) with steel fpiings, 6 dols. 11
: for- upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron | .
ill. I'prings or jacks, 3 dols.
ftille- upon curricles with tops, 3 dols.
,ppers upon chaises with tops, 3 dols. I
nc l | n upon chairs with tops, 3 dols.
3, ew . upon lulkies with tops, 3 dols. IJ
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols. |V
"* upon two wheel<ariiages, with steel or iron springs, j
x 1 3 dols. ,
'j i-r 'Jbr*nd upon all other two wheel carliages, « dols. ' |s
id «lil- upon every four wheel carriage, having framed polls I
,url " a " and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols. I
many The Colltftors of the Revenue ol the firft lurvev of the I
1 these ! oj(t r jft of Pennl'ylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day I
afket, of September next,for the purpose of receiving the duties on I
jarries c at No. 11 y,in Race or SalLfraj street, in the City I j
of Phifadelphia.'at the house of Daniel S. Cl.ii, Efq in the I
m the 1 Countv ol Montgomery ; and at the houie ol Abraham Du- j >
he ac- bois, Ehq. in the County of Bucks; of which all persons pol- I,
moke- felled of f»ch Carriages are defued to take notice. I ,
m, the Not'ce is also given,
ltc " 1 TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri- I '
, tuous liquors,that licence, will be granted to them 1 one li 1
>mitl\ s c( , rcc f or carrying an the bulinefs of retailing of WioCs, in aj '
i tools, lcts g llaiulty) or lels quantities than 30 gjllonsr-and one !
to the licence for carrying on the bufinels of retailiag Spirituous li- I
mplets 014 in ( e li quauiiiies than no gallons, at the fame time and I
at the fame places, by the offtcers legally authonaed to gr.ut
craits, fucte liccncts.
; they • • WILLI M NICHOLS,
nediate Infpeftor of the Revenue of the firft lurvey I
ibferib- of the ditlrift of Penuf.lvania.
Office of Infpeftion, at ? -,3°
purten- Philadelphia, 21ft July, 1J96. S
n good 1 1-1 " I
01 thc w ANTED,
ALL. An APPRENT j'CE to lit Prirting Bufmfs.
•jw Enquire at this Office. * u £ - 9 »
_ ——— " "V
Rofs and Simfon
HaTc for Sale, • •
A few calks Bees-Wax,
Of an excellent quality,
And a parcel of Lampblack.
Sept. 14. ■
Just Landed,
ij6 Bags of Prime Coffee,
EutilUJ to drawback.
For Site at 127, South Sfeonu-ftrcet.
Sept. IJ. _ ***3 .
French Goods.
| Received by .the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre di*
Grace,
40 Trunks ■> Lad ; es > SHOES of all colors forts and fizc*
I Cafe j
I Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS
I Ditto Fine LAW N
I Ditto best fine CAMBRIC
I Ditto Ladies' best (hammy and Grenobl * Gloves
For Sale by THOMAS S JOHN KE 1 LAND.
AUg. 14 '
A Single Woman,
Of a good chara&er, that would take part o.t a firall
House, may hear of one by applying'at No. 110, North
Front-street .Sept. 14.
Great is Tauth and must prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for fait at No- 41 Cbefnut-ftreet ty J- Ok:'\QD>
An 'Vpdioi'V tor the bible,
By R. PVjtson, d. d. f- r. s.
Rifhop of Lav. 'ass, .
Being a complete refutation of Paine s
—hgs oj lXZaJorr; — :
i. Aid the onlv answer to the Second l'jrt.
August 30. ,Jtt
THIS DAT f- ' vB- I rlt'.lJ,
And fold by W ILL I A M C O BBETT, oppoiue
1- Christ Church,
MISS WILLI IMS'S
1S Last Lesson to the Admirers of French
Liberty.
Let those who doubt of the f-db Rated in Porcupine's
Bloody Buoy, read here and.be convinced-
At the fame place may be had,
Watson's Apology for the Bible ;
Being a complete refutation of that hhfphctnous work
falfcly called the " Age of Rcafoi>."
As Aifo
All the Grub-street Pamphlets, vomited forth from
the lungs of filth and falsehood, against
— Peter Porcupine.
Sept. < 4-
Wm. HOLDERN ftS;•> ,
'No. 76 High Street,
T TAS received, by the latest arrival-! from Europe and
' y ' li. the East Indies, a well feletfed assortment ol Su.t
f n MerceryJLinen Drapery and Hoberdathery Goods; whic.i
r ...
, amongst which are,
"j Some fine Ipdiamutlinsembroidered with gold and fflver
Cd Superfine Bock, Jaci.net, and Mulmut ditto .
1 do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffetic9,Uiteftringsand colored Perfianj
I Band»no Handkerchiefs
1 Lone and short Nankeens
1 Entrfith Mantuas of the firft quality
AN J Damatk tabic linen and napkins, very fine
nd > I Silk Hosiery, an elegant aflortment
on Thead and cotton do .
ng. I Umbrellas—green silk, oll'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
I Irith Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 $
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
J Of the bejl quality and on reajonable terms,
I FOR SALE BY
Philip Nicklin iff Co.
I August 36. —-
ited Julf Arrived,
day m t he Snow Boston," James Kirkpatrick, master from Li
'eV I verpocl,
oon I s©°° Bulhcla SALT ; I
? Z 100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; and
> let An Assortment of SHIP CHANDLERY ;
<J U . I FO R SA L E
On board, at Pine-street wharf. -Apply to
Jams Campbell, or
George Latimer.
I April 19-
CABLES,
'° Ve ' From 16 to 9 i inches, for sale by
and I Jeremiah Warder,
iron July It S No it north 1 hird-ftreet.
FOR SALE,
A Complete Font of Brevier,
I T7Ntifely new , and yet unopened. The weight c I this
li, font is about Jixlb. It is from the Soundery of I
I Wilson & Sons,Glafgow,and will he fold at co.. & charges.
rings- 1 Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette ol the Umtde
_ I Krltse.'llO Chefnut-ftreet. Aug ,19
pods 7 , — •*— ——
oUhe FOR SALE-,
A very Valuable Estate,
<*City OAI.LED 7WITTENHA M, situate in the
in the K J tow-nfhip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
n Da- L 'a miles from I'huad lphia, and half a mile from the
lS P 01 " I new Western road 1 containing 130 acres of excellent land,
Lt of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of the firft quality. There are
I on the premises a good two scry brick house, with 4 rooms
If 1" on a floor, and cellars under the whole with a pump-well
s in a of excellent water in front; a large frame barn,
'd one and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and ltone,
ions li- spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
ne and es. The field* are all in clover, except those immediately
o grant under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con*
lurvey I situation is pleasant and lical thy, and from the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
I vicinity to the city, it is very . iitable for a gentleman s
- I °The^foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob
1 de-eased and offered for sale by . _
J Mordeeai Lewis,
x 'f s ' I q£l. 9. tt&i Surviving Executor., RAY :n R R TAYI. OR,
Music Pxorsssoji,
' : v> No. 96, North-Sixth Street.
T5 informs his Scholars, that "he has
iV re-commence'd his attcndancc after the fummcr va
cation ; and, as \ifual, teaches* Ladies Singing and the
Piano Forte. Sept. 3. '3S
■»
WANTED,
For any Ufm from one to four years,
A HOUSE, J>leafantly fituatcd In any of tbe principal
Erects within the pavement, and not very distant -from
the Statc-.Houfe, capable of accommodating afmallfami*
' ly ; the house must have stables and coach house, and
•fcteuld be required to be ready by tl>e fir it week in No
, vrmber next —Eu«uire of the printer.
Septi 14. ttf.
"the PUB LI C
IS hereby cautioned not to trust any pcrfon ot
persons on my recount, under any pretext whatever, as I
shall not pay fucli debts as may have been, or hereafter
may be contra&ed without my knowledge. -
THOMAS
Sept. 13. tt&f3
" FOS "sTA~L~E.
, . A PLANTATION,
ABOUT 12 miles From this City, situate in Abing
ton Town (hip, Montgomery-County ; containing
70 acres, a new stone house, ty/o Tories high, 9 rj,>oms on a
floor, fire places in each, a stone kitchen, and Hone spring
house, over an excellent spring of water, a barn, ftab)e!».
sheds, barracks, &c. A large apple orchard, and a variety of
other fruit, about 12 acres of good meadow well watered,
and wood fufficiertt for fire, and fencing the place. PoffciTi
on may be had the ift of Apijl next. Property in this city
viU betaken in exchange, or* MORRIS and NICHOLSON.-
Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, September 13, 1796. ttftf
To be foldT
ATLANTATfON, in thetoton of Woodbury, coun
ty ps Gloucetler, and flattof New-Jersey, contain
about one hundred and fifty acres ; a Ui it able propor
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow A
—■ ■■■■-■' nr inw m'Tfrm * u&tcol *<iluui!* 11
tion, and very natural to the production of Red-Clover.
On said plantation there is a genteel two story brick house,
with four" rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage-
Jioufe. The garden h large, and contains a good collec
tion o>f the best kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees;
the orchard consists of about three hundred grafted app e
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premiles, may ,
be informed of the terms by applying to
# ANDREW HUNTER.
J°'y d
No. 139.
Dijlricl of Pennsylvania to wit
BE it-remembcred that on the nineteenth Day of July
in the twenty-firft Year of the Independence of tkc United
States of Ametica Thomas Dobfon of the faid,Di(lri<ft
hath iepofited in this Office the Title of a Bock the Right
he claims as Proprietor in the words following
to wit
• " Seledtx e veteri Teftaraento Hifloria or feled PasTa
" ges from the old Testament. To wliieh is added an
" alphabetical Vocabulary or DiSionaty of the words
" contained in this Book wherein the Primitives of com
" pound and derivative words are minutely traced and
" the Irregularities of anomalous Nouns and Verbs are
" particularly mentioned—For the use of those who ai e
" entering on the Study of theGr«k and Latin Languages.
" Quoeitius. g''n fariNu.
•• By James Hardie A. M. l eachlr of the Greek and
" Latin Languages"—
in conformity to the ad of the Congress of the United
States intituled, " An A3 for the Encouragement of
Learning by feeing the Copies of Macs- Charts and
Books to the ( Authors and Proprietors of such Copies 1
the times therein mentioned.
Samuel Caldwell, Clk. Did. Fennfylv.
No. 140.
D'l/lrifl t f Penvflvania to wit
BE it rememb.red that on the 19th day of July in the
twenty-firfl year of the Independence of the United States
fcf America, Thomas Dobfoij of the laiddiftria hath de
posited in this office the title of a Book the right whereof
he claims as proprietor in the words following to wit
" Uttitarianifm explained and defended in a discourse
" delivered in the church of -the Univstfalifts at Philadel
" phia 1796. By Joieph Prieltley, L;L. D. F. R. S. &c.
" l^e T might know thee the only true God and
«« Jesus Chnft whom thou haft sent. John XVII. 3.
'• To us there is but ou God the Father of whem are
?, U i hir e»- I Cor. VIII. 6.
By evil report and good report as deceivers and yet
. true l , »~Cor. VI. 8.
:n conformity to the aft of the Congress of tke United
States intituled "An Av2: lor the encouragement of leaxn
ing by fecunng the copies of maps charts and books to
the authors and proprietors of such copies during the
> times therein mentioned;" 6 ,
Sarnuel Cald-juell, Clk. Dift. Ptnnfylv.
No. 141.
I)if:riß of Pennsylvania to wit
BE it remembered that on the 19th Day of July in the
the twenty-firft jtarof the independence of the'Unitcd
States of America I homas Dobfon of the said diftrid
hath deposited in th ls office tfcs title of a Book the risfht '
'' tl wk '" rroprietor m words following
" Difeourfes relating to the evidences of revealed reli
|K.n ,n the church of ,he Univerf»lift s at
Philadelphia , 796 an<l pnbhfhcd at the requ.il of ma.
" S' V &c &c '' By J ° ftph Prfeftle y L.L.D. F. R.
„ ,'Z\ r " dy alw 7' to Sive ? .n answer to every man tl>at j
y° u a r «l° n of the hope that is in you.. ,
in coßformity to the ad of the £ United !
States mntulea "An Aft for the of >
earning by fecarmg the copies of ,:,,ps charuLd books 1
to the authors and propr.etors of such ccp.r , d urin „ the ,
times therein mentioned." S a
Stmrnl Caldwell, Clk. P r „ n fjJ v . '
No. 14s. <
Dtfiris cf Pennsylvania t9.mil 1
BE it rem«».ibercd that on the nineteenth day of lulv 1
m the twemy-Crft year of « Independence of the fired
, J| , r tT' c !. TI ' oEas Doblon of the said diftriS »
Hath deputed jn tins office the title of a Book the t E ht ,
whereof he claim, as proprietor in the words follow* g t
« Cot.fiderations on the doflrine of PhWiHon and t'ae 1
« d'TR 0 Tic
" quufcm commendes etiam atque etiam afpice." J
in conformity to the aft of the Congress of V
States intituled " An Aft for ti,/ en to ura„. f'
learning by fecurirg the copies of Map, Charts and iLnl
$ vroprietprs of ijh
times therein me; t >ned. ,> r^auungtiit
Samuel Caldwell, Cik. Dili. Ptfuofylv. b
PROVIDENCE, September to.
O'l Wednesday la"tl wss celehratrd, the annivsr'
fary comrr.enceci-nt of Rhode-lfljind college. Ttie
is proceflional train was formeo at ufusl, ar.d at ten
i- o'clock, a m. proceeded to the'Bapiift nu'eting
-16 house. The exercifen of the day were introduced
by a prayer, delivered by the Prcfident.
The .performances of vhe forenoon' were,
I. An bration on the drama, with the salutatory
addrelTes—by Benjamin B. Simom.
j 2. An intermediate oration, on the importation
of foreign luxuries—by Abraham Bianding.
p 3. An intermediate oration, on the importance
id of the knowledge of civil rights—by Nathan
J " Whiting, i
MUSIC.
4. 2d difpote, on the policy of eflablilhing a
uniform fyftemof education throughout the United
States—between Horace Senter, Joseph Holmes,
j and Asa Kimball.
:r 5. An oration against religious eftablilhmfnts—
by John Holmes.
6. An oration, on the msnifeftation of Deity in
his works—by John M. Roberts,
MUSIC.
7. Astronomy burlefqucd, a conference—be
tween Abraham Blading and Nathan Whiting.
8. An oration, on the neceflity of fubjefting the
g paflions to reasons—by David Cra,ne.
a 9. An iniermediate oration, tin attachment to
particular systems of religious opinions—by A/a
'f Aldis.
The degree of Bachelor of Art's was conferred
on the following young gentlemen, Alumni of this
1 College : Asa Aldis, Abraham Bland ing, Bezer J
Bryant, Tristram Burges, Oliver Cobb, DaviH
Cr*ne, John Holmes, Joseph Holmes, Philip Hay
* ward, Asa Kimball, David Kinpy John M. R<?-
berts, Horace Senter, Benjamin R. Simons, Ben-
Shmtleff, Ignatius Tomfon, and Nathan Whiting.
The'iegrte of Mailer of Arts was conferred on
- the followiiiir gentlemen. Alumni ? f this CoW •
\ ,iaMtT 1 cwtrfn IT&fcTT, lhomaai,. Hal.
ley, William King, Eli Smith, Lemuel Wadf
worth, Isaiah Wefton and Abram Cummings.
r ' The honorary de'gree of Master of Arts was con
> (erred on the following gentlemen : Rev. Laurence
Butteruortii. Rev. James Bieheno, and Rev. An- j
j drew Fuller, of Gteat-Britain ; and 011 Foster
y Swift, Esq. of Taunton, MaflVichufetts.
AFTERNOON. 1
MUSIC.
1. An intermediate oration, on individual and !
national greatness—by Philip Hayward.
2. Ifl dispute, on this question, Whether chris
tianity has augmented the temporal happiness of '
man .'—between Benjamin ShurtlefF, Oliver Cobb,
t Bezer Bryant.
t 3. A dialogue—between David King, John M.
; Roberts, and John Holmes.
MUSIC.
' 4. A difleration in favour of female education '
J by David King. . j
5. An oral ion, " pleadfng the cause of man," /
I together with the valedidory addresses—by Trif
! tiam Burges. # j
An address was then delivered to the graduates
I The day was closed with Prayer by the Rev. I
Dr. Slillman. '
At the annual meeting of the corporation, on
the Bth inltanl, John Brown, Esq. refigncd the"
•' °®. C t ° f , T . reafu,er 10 ,he College, the dulies of r
whieh', during a period of 21 years, he had uni- •
formly d.fcharged with reputation to himfclf and
advantage to the seminary ; for which the oorrb- ■
ration voted him their acknowledgments, and una
n.moufly ele&ed Mr. Nicholas Brown bis fuccefTor
in that office. 11
r
SPRINGFIELD (Mass.) Sept. i 3.
ANTICIPATED NEWS ! " v
By a gentleman from the western diftrift, on fl
whole Informal ion we can rely, the votes of all "
the towns for a Representative in Congress, in the f<
place of Mr. Sedgwick appointed Senator, are for P
the several candi4ates in the aggregate, es follows, M
Vl2. tl
Hon. T. J. Skinnir, Esq. 1.320 a
Ephiuuk Williams, Esq. ,'^o
Scattering volt* ' Vr
Sn that if due reiurn be made to the Secretary's
office, Mr. Williams will be by a majority
of fifteen votes.
i he campaign has been very warm ; and febe
" L!^' he rMpfy P°int even the enerai\_ of
Mr. Williams, in electioneering, from policy, were
compelled to borrow i's virtues—they (trained eve- rr
ry nerve ta keep up its appearance. Shrfuld ,tht pi
above (tdtcmeMt prove not quite so accurate, as it ai
ts believed to be, and there (hould lie no choice— of
°" t " al » there a doubt be admitted c i
of Mr. Williams' election.
COMMU N1 CAT lON,
IHE Legidatiire of Maffachufettg has at last w
grdnted a turnpike on the g.eat road"in this coun- p;
ty. Ihe example is valuable, because it will hasten or
the decide of the prejudice, against tin's mu*. Ec
needed improvement. J u a country of ,1,
is their great ir.tereft to have good markets; and •}'
What avail* a good .narket if you cannot go to it re
« rtb your produce, or not without loling y our mo- H
a £ m T 7 L i "' C 3 ,ax °" ,he farmers of the hs
wort! kind, for they operate to discourage, and of an
Ctmrfe to prevent the produdtioas of the earth. In
I a , y ' u 7f e i,Cavier and more oppressive on fef
-his fiatc lhan the war tax of 1781. . •
taXC V C "° some towns, dr
they aflie.s large sums yearly, which probably is th
many cafe, are equal to an eighth, perhaps a x '•
of the cod of a turnpike—and yet when the mo i
eey is worked cut, 4 pafTengtr would be puzzled t^
to know-that any thing had been done. This .s
payingdear for !roo d roads without having them, ho
If at, Uft tve buy wn, U will U a good' penny 1„
is 1
BOS I ON, St*ptember ic,
number of Candidates it is pro- ric
b»ble there «iil not be a of all the Federal i Q
2 Represents*. of Mev,-i 'an ■■■ ' e "■> ' -•
al, The towns we have litarri ln,m, gi.».
Mr. JeVcm:»h Smith, - ■ 53''
Abicl Porter, • - -
WiHnrrt Goroon, - - 4°S
Natf.'t, Rogers, - - * 2 73
-
Hon. W. Langdon, - - 3-14
Thomas Cogfwell, - ■ 276
John Qilley, - - I 7° ■
Nathaniel Peabody, - - 234
The foot firft .compose with othcr9, who have
many vote?, the federal ticket.
Ctirittopher Champlin, Esq. is elected in Rhode
" Ifiind. He is a firm fedevalift.
n The Hon. Mr. Elmfley, is appointed Chief-Juf
tice of Can-ida.
A London pap?r favt, Sir William Geaiy, in
gaining hi» ele&ion, has lolthis e ljte.— ; lt is com
puted that expended upwards of 20,000!. in tjie
S ' contest. To answer the demands of the es
tates of the la e Admiral Geary, are advertised to
be fold.
For the CENTI.NEL.
" Mr. RvJJtll,
I F fhoqld fee'm, that the diforganizers of the
-United &;>tes, are the only vilifiers of their coun
try to be found. In every other parrot the world
the American ehar?£ter a«d ,government, ate spo
ken of in terms of the highell 1 efpi.(ft I,}' all the
liberal and enlightened. In' France not a breatij of
r obloquy is vented*—in Holland, and in fbort, -
ptare 1 have heard from, we are nat only mention
j ed with piaife, but tffey appear happv in our prof
peritv. A circumstance, though in itfelf apparent
ly trifling, will convey the sense those who di-
ie£i affairs in Holland, have of the Executive of
the United States:—One of the new Dutch drips 1
of the line, has lately bean named Wiihington—
an'honor no; conferred on any of the sages and pa
triots in their own Revolution. We also fee, in a
Gazette'Nationale, which I fend you, the account
of the celebration of the ami'Ywfarv nf thy
p -Mniriiif imiMVH," a|ig of the brilliant' entertain
ment giien by Jt Joel, the Minister of the French
Republic, at tHe Hague ;in which the following
toast wa? giveu :—" The United States of Amc
nra—May a robust and numerous population, flou- j
rifliing commerce,,profound security, and unaltera- '
ble tranquillity, be the result of their union ; and '
may a happy alliance with the French and
an republics, fourtdsd on a drift regard to their in- 1
terefts and principles, render common to the three
nations the means of their rcfpefhve prosperity."-—
Or giving this toast, Citizen Dumas, Charge d'af
. faires of the United States, a refpefl'abie old man,
f replied to it with the liveliest frn sibil it jr. '
PATRIOTISM. '(
Pll rSBURGH, September to. f
Died, in Canonfburgh, on the aß:h of August, f
John Oliphant, A. B. lately from Philadelphia, f
on a tour through the wefterri country.—This I
young gentleman was the fotj of the late Mr. Wil- c
( ham Oiiphant, teacher in the tinivarfity of Penn- c
fylvania. Of a fair and amiable chara&er, libe- f
rahj eJu&ted, and pronfifed fair to be a very va- I
'liable member of society. He was seized with a t
' vioU-it dyfcntcry aqd"nrrronVTevei', wliicTi in two" V
weeks put a period to his days in the 21 ft year of t
■ his age. q
! WASHINGTON -(Penn.) Sept. 6.
; .On Sunday evening last, Mary Stewart, a little n
Riil or nine 01 ten years old, was found murdered f<
| 1,1 t,le hoilfc of her step father, James Ridgway, a
o.n Crufs creek, in this county—lt seems the de- ij
eeafed was left in charge of tlje house, while the r
reft of the family were at meeting ; and in th»ir p
ahftnee some person committed the above lioirid
murder, by dashing the child's bnins out with an j(
axe, and afterwards robbed the house of a sum of ir
money amounting to near too dollars, together ! h
with fereral other articles. A man calling himfelf! C
lometimtf James Stewart, &at other times Brown, ir
who was seen loitering about the neighbourhood a tf
few days before, is ftiongly fufpefled. Seveial w
peHons are in purfuj? of him, and it is hopeH he
will be fhortiy apprehended ; anrf if guilty mcet
that_punifhrnent. which the pe.petrator of so horrid m
a cnmc richly re
' ' BBfIPHKn-amwn. 1
BY THIS DAY's MAIL.
at
NEW-YORK, September 16. V
LAI'EST ENGLISH ACCOIJNTS.
Ev a gentleman who came pafienger in the Jen. is
ny, from London, we have received London pa i
pers to the 28th July. Among the most import- ibe
ant article, are the-official sccounts/f the advances '
of the French aim.es to, Lnd thi capture of the St
city of Frankfort, which we ha<re this day given at '
largf. Oiler articles begin to speak more confi to
dently of a nrgocation for peace having taken place ' ha
with the Emperor ; those ander the Vienna hrad ' th
partisularly, althotigh wr do not find any oUß.ial B:
or pofjtn-e oata on which the circumstance is found- ha
ed. On tiie fubjeft,. however, a letter from a o-en- fei
tlrman at Deal to his friend in this city, datej i6:h mi
July, and received by ihe Jenny, has the following frc
IW T! ' J! ' ,na " dcd P' ace from m '
, , ,S l s P°Q" ve news that the Emperor
1 f 10 proposed by the French,
and that peace will fliortly take place."
be »" Wa3 " cfda y «f'«"oon a'fevere though ,b<
wHs i °' ra - ° ram ' lllU,,dfr lightning,
lifted unn! midnight. Our ft reel s have been
she atrr M f -c l> ' U,nc,it3of rain, and Fr
the atitiuTptiere purified by the thunder and light
mng Ihe house of Mr. Joseph Bufwell, i, W,-
ter- heet near the Fly was struck, the roof
ho.r, V,t: V"t "" b ' ll ~" '
, lc , V *k, but not mu-.h injured as w. ■
learn; the balloon house, and the ballot, ,'tf.lf "it Jer
is laid, were blown away by the rust
ed i4ufllWit ' k - WlflU was T
by iigluning yesterday evening. • jP,
Atthccelcb.ationof the.fete i, hon 9 rof Ame- i her
ncan Liberty, by the citizens of the United States ' wir
'o -ns, on ,fc, 4th 0 f j Hly lalVa . toyn .
.. agtt « jJjc< referred whJch c j*:y gucii „
j with feelings of at:d rdgrct. tfpo..
} rr.vr.t wc><i fyced a paper with this iiiferij/tiun : "
|< 7 mere Ila Fayettf, Comma:.Her of the Auut /»•,;*
; 4 ;:»•/'•' tyduty-" ,
j .Mr. Gore ihe American Commifljoner iu Eng«
! land wis presented to the king j (he 13th Jolv, j.'r
Mr. Pi Hckney, the American MinifUr.
Died, on the inlh much lameMed bv his
aumjrous friends and acquaintance, Mr. Simvel
P. Lloio, Merchant, or this city,
re , —
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,'
f. By the Jenny, Captain Channcey, a>ri
ved yejier day in 4 2 days from London.
n - —. ,
i- F R A .vc E.
,c council of Ancients.
f- Sitting of July 8.
0 The Council had been in a general comm tee
from 12 o'clock. At two, the fitting became
public, when the President announced that the
Council were to proceed to the appe! nominal, lor the
;e purpose of voting by private ballot 011 the impeach
i- ment of Drouet.
d All the member appeared in crftume. The in
i. dividual called upon was not permitted to approach
e the bureau to depolit his vote, until the member who
»f preceded him had returned to his place. Two tJc
cretaries, placed one on each (ide of the Prefidekt,
i. Sfliiled in infpe&ing the urn where the fuffra ges
- were deported. One of the Secretaries afterward#
received.thebulletins regularly from the President,
j. after he had read the Contents, and exhibited them
if to the view of the Counqil. The moil prufmind
s silence prevailed during the fitting. The membeis
_ who did not answer to their names on the fiift call
.. werf called again.
a On catting up the votes thete appealed,
t Prefect 199 Absent 51
JwJIU-<).Va{.ll.i< — npo -
Against it - - * 58 1
j Majority 82
The Council then . declared, that there were
. grounds of accusation againll Drouet, Repr.-fen.
. tative of the people, and accordingly configucd Hint
1 to the High Court of Jultice, for trial.
] he Council rffened to the committees a variety
. of resolutions which had been received from the
• Council of Fire Hundted.
—V 4,6
PARIS, July 20.
, . We ma y important and fpecjy chang« V
i:i the politics of Europe. It is certain that the
•government of England refufed to pay the Emperor,
for two reasons : the srft is, that money is vc y dif
ficult to be found j tho fccond :s, thai the.govertj.
, ment would rilk the losing of it, because tie Em.
, perer would onlj- be enabled by it to cencJude a
s feperate peace, which the French armies aw nego.
. ciating with great adivity Every thing aimqun.
. ccs that a feperate ptace with the Empeior i» not
. far off. We are affined that the Marquis tie Gaiio
- has made some proportions on thefuljjeft at BJlej
1 that the Ai<f Bjftnwi'mi iw.vi , M
1 \iiit each other; that the hitter has required from
f the Auttrian minilUr the arrest of the ci Mar.
quis de-Potterat, who had r/ude several j j'urmcs to
Switzeiland and Vienna.
On the other hand the EmjJveft of Rufiia is
rot herfelf fufiicicntly sure of the fuppott ofAullrij
so terribly weakened by the war ; nor of the afiift.
v/L 'j n tl' snt '> ' s hcrjtlf negotiating, am! -uihi,
• if the docs not conclude a fep.ratepiaee, may have i»
refifi afl the efforts of the French and Dutch Re
publics, a)T\lied perhaps by Spain.
J he Emprcfs appears i:i confluence to have ad*
journed he r projects againtt Turkey. She is offer.
1 mg an alliance with Turkey at the moment in which
I her troops marched, an# v.cre about to attack the
j Ottoman Power. She confines berfeif to coi.quefis
in herfia, and uumd the Caspian Sea. She Übi*
to fu.round the Turks by degrees, and then itw
will be able to attack them without danger.
rp, . . (L* Eclair.)
i he elections began to day in Paris for the for
mation of the Municipalities. Hitherto only Bu
re?;,lS have been formed. Every thing is t^_
July 2i7
We fee with regiet that the Piimary Assemblies
are not very pumerotfly attended : they are, how
ever very ttanquil, and occupicd alone in the ohieft
for which they were convoked.
From Infpruck we learn, that general Wurrafer
is aruved at lioveredo.
i he camp that was. in the plain of Grenelle hMf
| been lemovcd t6 Vinctnnes. '
I _ A private letter from General Movlins, dated
Stralbotirg, annotißces that the Princc of Wurtiai
! berg haj sent two miniftets to General Moieau,
| to treat f«ran armistice ; that as hiscommissioner.
. had not returned, and might have been taken by
p c u^nans » ' le f cnt two more commissioners to
» that l! 'e ' at, er, on their arrival at Basle
having heard of the fuccefles of the French, and
fearing that they should arrive too late to save their
maflet's territories, went direfily to Sira/burg, and
from thence to head-quaiterj to treat with the com
i mander in chief.
• ( Tiableau de la 1 rnnce.)
The affemblagcs continue in the Thuilleries; Le
•gendre occafioiiaHj walks there—but is not fecn is
the group.
ARMTcf the SAMS RE and MEUSE.
Official Details,
From Oi# aimy of the Sambrc and Meufe, to the
Executive Diredt'orv,
Head Quarters ai Benema t,
' 26th Meffidbt, July 14..
" Ctt:?ens Dt'reQors.
" In my communication of the 21ft Mcflidor, I
had the honpMi to acquaint y,- u , that ."he army un .
v-er my con.mar.d had palled the Eahn. I have
how to you with 4 detail of their opcratwrs
up to tun d y.
he! * h a V ft 'r 'v C !cft " ini? Under « encra! K,e
ber, cro. Ed the Lahn tu tl,,ee divifiors. The left
tvirg, commanded by general Lefcbvre, a
P- -age ttc.r o-ie. sn; un^riliefJk/»••. < . _ V ■ ,
_ jojhr; nd of general CulHad, at W.'iiaer; and
■ tyt (Si. die right at Lenn. Generals Ix
ftbvte and Bnr.nard di.l not fall in with the enemy ;
hut the advanced guard of general Colaud's divifi
i on, commanded by adjutant-general Ney, engaged
in ihe plains in front of BtitzSack, general Ney'g
detachment, _ Rationed in the vicinity of Oberrr,eil,
Mauiheim and the Wetter, with the whoje of his
cavalry, in front of Nidermeil.
" General Kleber, at the commencement, confr '
defed this battle only as a ficirmifh between the ad
vanced guards; but the engagement presently af
firmed a ftrioug and most portentous afpedt. Ad J 1
jutant-general Ney, much inferior to the enemy in '
cavalry, advanced, and supported by the demi- i
biigadc of light infantry, gained in an instant the
fu'mmit of the firil height, General Kleber, re- '
juiced at thefuccefs of this effort, and observing '
every c< lumn stationed where they had been direst- i
ed, ordered general Ney to avail himfelf of his-po- '
fit ion. and eltabli(h bis ports ; but on receiving in
formation that the enemy were in motion, and in- ]
• dicated a dilpofition to make an attack, he diredted '
general Colaud, who was encamped in the rear of '
Butzbach, to take a position in front of Oberweifel ]
for the purpose of supporting his advanced guard.
" While these arrrangements were making, feve- 1
ral charges of cavalry were effedtad, in which the
11th regiment of dragoons, and the 6ih regiment
i of chasseurs dirtmgtiifhed thcmfelves. The ifirft of
these corps having made a feint to retreat, contriv
ed to lead the enemy'a cavalry into an smbufcade
of infantry, who discharged a volley of small Ihot
cafe (hot. Hie carnage was dreadful.
" The viilage r of Obermeil, of which our troops
had previously taken poffefiißn, was funounded and
attacked by the enemy with the utmost vigour ■ —
Adjutant-general Ney chatged them with the great
est impetuosity, and repulsed them. The enemy
rallied, returned to the charge, and took the post,
after being four times repulsed ; tjut adjutant-gene
ral Ney having rallied his troops, attacked, in his
turn,and eventually iucceedej in taking the village,
jj »Thi» obstinate and sanguinary conflidt, terminated
at g o'clock in the evening,
«' The detachment under the command of gene
ral Grenier, which had filed oft by Weilburg, did
not fall in Tvith the enemy. The detachment under
general Championet, which had filed off by Lim
burg, met the enemy at Oberfeltera. General
Championet attacked, and the enemy retreated to
Camberg, where, on their arrival, they covered the
plains with their numerous cavalry, And planted
(their infantry in ambuscade, in the wood of Wir
ges. General Championet, at the head of his in
fantry, gained poffeflion ot she heights on the light
aid left of Camberg, and general Klein, at the
head of the :zth dragoons and the 12th chasseurs,
charged the enemy's cavalry with fueh impetuosity,
that- they were totally routed with dreadful (laugh
ter.
" The battle was long and terrible. The enemy
left the field of battle covered with dead bodies.
>Thirty-five waggon loads of their wounded have
been collected, and £0 prifoner3 taken, among
whom is an officer of diftin&ion, and ijo borfes.
I " Alter this.-dtteat« the enemy , hrrmtrht frefh
tioops into the field, apparently to t'ake their r.e
ve ;ge ; but a brigade of cavalry of reserve, having
come up to fup'port the 12th dragoons and I 2th
chasseurs, and several cannon being discharged
while their operations were suspended, induced them
to prefer a retreat. The conduit of the republican
troths,* in this battle, merits highelf eulo
. giums, and entitles them to the gratitude of their
country. General Klein distinguished himfelf in an j
eminent degree, by his courage ant) military talents.
" On the 22d; general Kleber Was informed that
the enemy had taken poll at Friedberg. He sent
orders to general: Lefebvre, who was on the left
t>awk of the Wetter, to push advanced guard to
ward Bauei nlierm and Offenheim, to follow with
his own diviiion, and to attack the enemy, but not
to attack thtm until he was informed of the arrival
of general Lefebvre. But the enemy having, in
fadt perceived tbi = manoeuvre, retreated wiih pre
cipitation, but afterwards rallied, and drew up in
order between Allenfaueibach and Rofback. They
made prodigious efforts to hinder the division of ge
neral L.efebvre to pass by Offenheim and Fouer
back ; but, in faite of their reliftance, that divi
. heights and maintained their posi
tion.
" I he advanced guard of the division under ge
neral Colaud,. commanded by adjutant-general NcyV
advanced in pursuit of the enemy as far as Ockftadt.
General Jacobin, at the head of the 43d half bri- 1
gade of infantry and the nth regiment of dra
goons, marched against Freidburg. The gates of
rfiat cit-y were forced open, in despite of a bride
fire of mufquetry and artillery ; and this column,
encouraged by its general, the adjutant-general La»
eroix, and citizen FrideKheim, aid de-camp to ge
neral Colaud; entered the town, drove the enemy
from thence, after havsng killed upwards of 200
men: a 13 pounder, and a standard, N after having
been taken and retaken several times,remained with
our troops.
" T lie division of general Colaud and general
Boqnard having arrived, the enemj found them
selves preffrd on both flanks, and were,compelled
to letreat. General Richepaufe and adjutant-gene
. nil Ney, purfned them until night. Beside the
piere of artillery taken at Friedberg, 2 others were
taken on the plain before that town. The loss of
enemy, in, the affairs of, the 2lft and 22d, may be
cilirßated at 2000 men, of whom 500, including 8
I <fr"ei's, have been made prifoneis.
" We have loft the citizen Rouilly, aid de camp
to general a:i officer of the greatest me
rit, and whale zeal and valour could only be exceed
ed by his modeiiy, and the excellent qualities of his
heart.
" Ihe column commanded by general Grenier
I !»!! in with the rear of the enemy behind Hora
• ' Ir g. General Oliver, at the head of two fqua
dsons,.attJcked, routed arid purftrcd them with rm
. pcttlofity. He took 130 pr ifonei'6, of whom, two I
S are ofii 'i-rs. The enemy left frxty dea<i upon the
field of battle.
" "1 he column command-ed by general Champi
onet found the enemy at EMi. They were at tack
•:d •-rid repulsed, but the grsund was dHputed the
wl
whale dajr, an 4 it »»*» noi Hnti| eight o'clock in the .
evening thnt general Championet reached the
hei*-hts of Kanigltein. The column of general
Bernadotte engag>*d the enemy on the heights of
Neuhoff. They were driven near to-Wifbfden, I
with the Ms of some men killej and
twenty prisoners, of whom o.ie wnf a captain.
" On the 23d, the army halted to wait fftr pro
vitmns, but in the mean time general Championnet
inverted the fort of Konigjlein.
" On the 24tk, the army was again on its march.
1 h» wing passed the mountains and advanced
to the plain of the Mein. The left wiVg after ha
ving passed the Nidda, took a pofitionbefore Frank
fort.
" On the 25th, the magistrates of Frankfort ,
were summoned to open the gates of that city.
Thq Aurtrians who were then 111 garrison, opposed 1
it, so that the day was passed is deputations from
the magistrates to us and to the Auiirian generals.
But as the enemy seemed difpoftd to pecupy the
place, our artillery began to fire at ten o'clock at
night. In a fh'jrt time one quarter of the town j
was on fire—-Then the Aui'tians began to offer ,
propositions, and a capitulation v.-as signed, of which
I fend a copy. On the following morning we en
tered into Frankfort. 1
" The troops have fought in all these actions
with their usual courage.
Signed, ' « JQURDAN." '
The Commissary of Government with tlie Army
of the Sambre and Meufe, to the Executive Pi
reft or y.
" Citizens Dire&ors. ' I
" The enemy made no refidatice, as was expec
ted, in their position at Bergen. They entered
Frankfort, where they threatened a defence, which
had no other object tha-n to gain time to evacuate
their mdg'azines. Frankfort is out of the reach of
, a coup de main'j it is defended by a ivall and a
ditch filled \ri:h water.
1 " The inhabitants yefters'ay sent fsveral deputa
lions to Gen. Kkber and Jourda;), to .pray that
| they would not (ire on the town. These measures
only proved their want of power to compel the
. Auftrians to depart. It became necessary there
| fore to quicken the decision. Every prepara ion
- was therefore m a( Jefor a vigorons attack, ant) dujr
ing the night a continual discharge of howitzers
| f«t many houses on fire. In the morning ankles
i ot capitulation were proposed. We are taking all
. the necessary meafnre6 to iafure to the Republic all f
[ the advantages which it has a right to expect from {
.. the ccnquelt of this gieat city. J
" Ihe commander ih chief is preparing to pur
t f.ie with vigour the operations of the campaign.
. The enemy is in a ftatc of difcomfiture ?.p.d dilor
, gani/.atiort. A report prevails here that the Sax
j 011 troops are again preparing to ft/psrate from the
. CofWeed armies.
" Heajth and Refpefh
Signed, " JOUBERT."
LONDON, July 14.
! Letters from Madrid, of so late a date as June
14, were received by the late Lisbon mail which
1 afford an additional eontradi&ion to t-he r.-nort -nt
■ the Piince oT Peace having made a hollile d'edara
; tion to the Briti(h Minirter. They ftatc, that thr
1 Maiqtus ot Bute having made repreferr.ations to
I :he fcpanifh Minuter of the proceedings of the
1 French crujzers in the Mediterranean seas, which
1 greatly annoyed W trade, the Spaniih Minilter re
■ turned for nnfwer that, according to a secret article
r 111 the late treaty of peace between Spain and
1 France, French crni/ers yvere permitted to tail in
. and nut of Spanish ports as often as they cliofe so
t totdo, and to bring in their prizes : but in or
t der to avoid all jealousy of pref'erenc>", Englifli
t (hips (liould have the fame permiffian, as well as to
- victual in Spaniih potts. Admiral Jems, in con
) fequenceof this p.ermifllon, has stationed a frigate
t and two cutters between Gibraltar and Alicant,as
1 well for !(;e purpose of watching the motions of
1 the French cruizers, as for affording protection to
the Englilh Hade.
l July 15.
f The intelligence from Italy is. most important
- The French have compl ted their conquests in
- Ijombardy, by the red jit ion of the ciiadel of Mi
- lan. They have however been obliged to convert
- lhe<iegeof Mantua into a blockade, after several
attempts, particularly on the 6th, 7th and Bth of
- Ji:nc, to take it by ftoun. In these attacks, it is
' j allowed, in the French papers themfelvcs, that they
. loil a great number of men.
They have therefore very prudently changedtheir
- plan ; and to prevent any- further unnecedary effu
f fion of blood, they have relolved to wait till Man
c tua rtiall fall by want ; as it inevitably mull, unless '
, the Imperialists should ba able to take the field in
» superior force to the French ; a circumttance which.
• from late events, must by the tnoit sanguine be
1 r considered as hopclefs.
> Advices were yerterday received at the Admiral
; ty office, from Admiral Sir John Jervis in the Mc
-1 diterranean, and from General O'Hara, Governor
of Gibraltar
1 The accounUfrom Sir John Jervis (late th»fuc
- cess of Captain Macnamara, of the Southampton
1 frigate, in capturing a French frigate of 24 guns.
The English commander-had failed into the road
: of Toulon with a view of cutting out this vessel,
: which they had nearly aecomplifhed, when the Cap
I tain of the Frenchman fired at Captain Macriama
" ra, but beißg immediately returned, theFrcKchof
i ficer fell; in 1 confeqiience a general engagement
took place between the sailors belonging to both
-1 vessels, when 20 of the enemy «ere killed, and
the "French frjgate towed out of the harbor by the
Englilh seamen, amidst the fire from the fort, with
s the loss of (inly one man.
The Emperor, on account of his ill health, is
gone to drink the waters of Bifden. . . '
The price of gold is becoming more formidable
every hour.
The arrears of the civil lift, &c. &c. still conti
-1 nue. No money, nor order for any money, is yet
: issued. - ' ■
The outward bound Mediterranean convoy has
been (topped from proceeding, at the reqaeft of
the merchants, who presented a memorial to that
effeiS to Earl Spencer. Sir Hyde Parkei's fqua-
drtjn, bow tinder otders for fulling for those seas,
is to be reiritorted.
The couife cf exchange \vith Hamburgh an:
Altona yesterday continued 33, 7 and 8. Tli
Dublin was 9 1-2.
July if>.
A COMPLETE COPY OF THF. ARMISTICE,
Between the French Pepublic and the Foil.
1. WISHING so give a proof of that tefpeil wliicV
the French government entertains for his Majesty th.
King ot Spain, the c<.?nmanrter-in chief and the eivi;
commiflioners of the jrmy.of Italy grant atufpenGon
of hcftilities ta his Holiness, counting from this day
tiU T.ve days after the close of the negociatian, which
ihali bejjpeaed at Paris for the coriclufion of a defini
tive pr.icf. 1 >
1. The Pope fha.ll fer.d with all p.ifiible expedition
to Paris 1 plenipotentiary, in order to obtain from the
Executive t)ire<sk>ry a definitive Peace, by offering
the neCeflary reparations for the outrages and n.rultc
which the French enduVed in his Hates, arid particular
ly for the murder of Bafievillf, and the recompence
due to his iajn ly.
з. The individuals detained in the territories of the
Pope for their political opinions, (hall immediately be
set as liberty, and re*entei into the pofieffion of their
eflecfls.
• 4- l'he ports belonging to the Pope's slates (hall be
shut toallveiiels belonging to the powers-at war with
the French republic, and open to French (hips.
5. The French army shall remain in poflfeflion ef
the legations of Bologna and.Ferrara, and shall occupy
that of Faenza.
6. The citadel of Ancora shall, in fix days, be put
into the pofTeifion of the French troops, with its artil
lery, floret and pruvifions.
7. The city of Ancona shall continue under the civil
government of the Pope.
S. J he Pope fhaii yield to the French Republic a
hundred pidlures, bulls, va&s and statues, at the
choice of commissioners, to be sent to Rome, among
which are fpecifically comprised the busts in bronze of
Junius Brutus, and that in marble of Marcus Brutus,
both placed in the capito!. The Pope shall also deliver
up five hundred roanufcripts, at the choice of the laid
commiiTioners.
9. The Pope fti 11 pay to the French Republic ir
millions of French money ; of which fifteen millions
five hundred *toful'atid Hvrci (hall be in (pecL- or in
gots, the remaining five millions five hundred thou
latid liyrcs in goods, merchandize,' hotfes, &c.
{o. The fifteen millions five hundred thoafand to be
pnid in three inft.il newts: five millions in fifteen days,
five mi' ions in the fcilowing month, and the remain
der within'three months.
, 11. The five millions five hundred thonfand livres in
goods /hall be faithfully delivered acCprding to the de
mand* made from the ports of Genoa Leghorn, and
those places occupied by the army, which shall be poin
ted out.
и. Those 2; millions faall be independent of the
contributions \Vhich shall be livied on Bologna, perra
ra and Faenza.
i> The French troop 1 - fhlll hive a free paflage
through all the teriitorics bf the Pope..
July 20.
The accounts from the Lower Rhine mention,
that t,he French were rapidly advancing to Frank
fort. On the night of the 6th, the Aultrian camp
at Neurkirchen was turned and attacked on all fidis
—the contest was very desperate ; but the French
were fuceefsful, and the Aul'rians were defeated
with great Lfs, An article from \Vefel, dated on.
the even ng of the 9th, fays, that after the battle
of NVuikiroben, the Fiervth QeiteralJuefebvre paf
feJ the Lahn.
His Pvuffian Majesty has taken pofTeffion of Nu
remberg »nd ' His claims upon these two
placcs are founded upon some decrees of the Cham
ber <-■? tiir Empire, of so old a date as year
1583, ar«! 1587.
Jii'y. 2S.
Tin: homeward -bound Well India fleet under
couVoy <-f Ihe Grampus, of 54 guns, arrived on
fTuefdav evening off the Isle of Wight, and pro
ceeded fbr the Dawns with a fair wind.
T he Paris papers which we received this morn
ing enable us to adij but little to the details .xtrze
ted from the papers that arrived yesterday. From
the armies of and Moreau there is no news.
The Duke of Bainfwick's jxiinilfer has notified to
f the imperial ministers at Ratifbon that an army of
> ..troops, belonging to the King of Prussia, the Duke
®f Ertmfwick, and other dates of the empire, is
aflVmbltd for the purpefe-of preserving- the tran
quillity of the North of Germany, and forpreven
-1 ting any invafton of that part of the empire.
It is very llrongly rumoured that Parliament will
I be fumraooed to meet in the month of September
1 next.
f The French have certainly gained rftore battles
( Had more terrirory in a few weeks than any con
querors have done before in any war, but Mr. Pitt
fays 0e mull have indemnity for the past and fccuri
" ty for the future.
Mr. Pinckney, the American envoy, had an au
- dicnceof leave, on his returß home, and immediate
ly after, Mr. Ling had a closet audience to deliver
■ his letterj credential, to which they were severally
■ introduced by lord Gienville, Secretary of slate,
and conducted by Mr. Cuttcieil, alCltant matter of
the ceremonies.
ExtraS from the official Bulletin.
FRIBOUKG, 14 Melfidor,, July 2.
A very feyerc. adfion took place yeflerday, be
tween Cvpel and Eudcngen. After an obiiinate
engagement, ilie Auftriang were obliged to give
way, and'the emigrants of the corps deConde, were
put to route. From that moment the Aultrian ge
neral declared he foutid himfelf obliged to abandon
1 the Brifgau, and that every one must save himfelf
if he could. The emigrants disbanded ; they flew,
but were he'mmed in 011 all fides; they,endeavoured
to pass by the advanced guard of the French troops,
but the peasants, armed wiih pick-axes aod forks,
would not be deceiyt'dby them ; they killed a great
number.
The baggage of the Auftrians and Emigrants is
already upon the confines of the Black Forest.
The hospitals, and part of the carriages, take the
road of the foteft towns of Canftance, by Rhetn
fclden.
PARIS, JULY 10.
We are afTurcd that the troops which we have at
present in Italy, amounts to 66,c00 men, and that
Buonaparte wants to march with his army to Vien
na, not to Tyrol,but through the Venetian States,
across which tfie route is more easy and shorter.
Buonaparte expedls all the prodigies of enthtiGafm
and boldness from ao army to frequently victorious.
|> " v e "rea's on : y toolorijf an 3. fl .iv!ty, and tne iic.it3 „
•r 1 iitr dug diy'.
We expect i:i a few* days at Paris, an Ambnfia
ior from the Bey of Tunis, who pa{Ted" through
Lvons on tiiegtl) Mefiidor (J■ »r»27) his name is
Mahomtnad-GoiTjja ; he is Cornm.i;.dcr General ot
the navy of Tu."is In his pafiaoe through Ly
ons, he was allow ed a guard of honour.
< "f **«■»<n" n'j m*mmmi'musn*fit l *' nui'.<
Philadelphia,
; SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 1796,
1 . ■
.GAZETTE OF THE UN IT Kb STATES MARINE LIST.
f ' = ~~ ■ - L
ARRIVED.
Ship General Waflii'i rton, Perry, Liverpool 60
Schr. Lucy, Bolt*; k. North Carolina £
Sloop Mill River, M >y, Virginia T
Patience, Webb, New-Y.ik 7
Polly, Hill, N. Carolina $
Capt. Perry of the General Washington, fpr»k.c
the (hip Federal George, on the 17th of Augtift,
(rum Lifb_>n, bound to Bolton, the captain of which
r informed, that war was declared by Fiance, against
the Queen of Portugal. Oil the 27th spoke the
ship Hope from Salem for Bourdeaux, out eight •
■ days,
New-York, September 15-
I ARRIVED,
dar»
; Ship Diana,—, ■Aux-Cayes
jenny, Chsuncey, London
Brig Lewis, Chadwich» Port-au Prince
( Schr. Sally, Robinlonj Wilmingtotl
Ship Jenny, Captain Chauncey, 42 days fioia
1 London, failed in company.with the following vef-
Ms:
Ship i. air American, Goodr ich for New-York
; —brig.Eliza. Wilson, do. /hip Henry, Stanton,
for Alexandria, (hip Charles Carter, — .Bal
timore ; Rebecca, of Philadelphia, for Philadel
phia ; ship John, of Boston, bound to Boston .
, :<bout twelve fail of American vessels bound to St.
Übes.
The Ship Elice'. Harvey, was to fail the follow
ing day.
t . Augn(l Iz, in lat. 46, 36, was boarded by the
. Tartar frigate, one of the convoy of the Gibraltar
fleet, coiiliiiing of 70 fail, under convoy of 8 then
: of war.
" , Aug. ij, lat. 48, 13, fptke the fchr. Clary,
Irom Bourdeaux bound to N. ,01 k.
oftip Jimes of New-York, capt. Conklin, arri
ved at Falmouth while the jenny lay in the-Downs.
, Capt. Mease, of the Margaret from Bourdeaux,
. sPokef P oke go]*g np the rivrr to Bourdeaux as he came *
) the Thip Fame of Philadelphia, cap*. Wilson.
g On the 4th 6ept. spoke a Bremen (hipfiom Bal
-1 timore bound te Bremen, out 6 days, all well, lat.
} 39, I, N. long. 66, 39.
Schooner Betsey, Capt. Taylor, from Jamaica,
5 weeks, in lat. 23, 37, N. long. 91, 15,
.vlatanzas in (ig?it, bearing S. by W. diliant 10
I ay ties ; Mary, of Liverpool, in tow,
which loft ah her maPiS, m a her:w
gaie of wind, and a tranfpoit in company wiih
them, which Ifad loft her ; they part
* ed the relt of the fleet on Tuefdayj the 291(1 Au
yufl ; /he told us several werg diitreffed greatly.
Providente, September 10.
r _ From a Correfponden! at Halifax.
n American vefFels captured and sent into Halifax,
tor trial and adjudication.
Ship Success, Badcock, from Bourdeaux so» Phi
. ladelphia,taken the 7th of July. Condemned, for
rcafo.nj unknown to the mailer.
n Brig John, Smith, from St. Domingo for Phila
delphia. On trial. •'
3 Brig Friendftiip, Smith, from Aux Caycs for
f Baltimore, taken off Cape Henry, the Light?
r house 2 leagues dillant, with a pilot on board* oa
s tf, e '4 th J u lj"» *»y the Prevoyantc ; one man im
__ prefled, a native of Newbuiy Port, although h?
pioduced a prote£tion. l On trial. ■
1 , STOCKS.
r
Sit per Cent. - - .... ■„
s Three per Cent. ------ _ to j-y
- 4h P cr Cent - *. - none for sals. -• . t,f laftprice
t 5\ per Cent. ..... ...
Deftrred Six per Cent. .... 13/6 to 7
BANK United States, .... 20 j )r . cent.
Psnnfylvariia, .... jy
— North America, - . . .46
Insurance Camp. North-America, 40 per cctit. adw
r Pennfylvatiia, 5 percent.
1 - COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
' On London, at 30 days, per £.100 fterl. par.
at 60 days, par to 162 l-a
at 90 days, 161 a 162 I-a
Amflerdam, 60 days, per guilder, 42
- 1 90 days, 40 t
: NOTIcI
Person who so miraculously succeeded in
taking away a Horse-Whip on Friday evening,
at the house of Mrs. Marlhall, Glolier-Point, is re
-1 quested to return it to its owner, otherwise he will hear
f ef—fometving else.
, »7- . I
! FOR SALE,
By N. and J. FRAZIER,
t No. 95, S. Front-street, •
Prime Boflori Beef, in barrels.
5 Georgia Cotton.
Carolina Rice and Indigo.
; Sherry and Teneriffe Wines, of excellent quality.
: . Ravens Duck. '
- Indio Bandanno's.
Sewing Silks, various colours.
CoiTahs and Gurrahs.
s »pt- ' 3taxv 4w.
or Charter,
Barque B2NEV£Ntura»
Samuel Stub, reader,
good veffcl, of about two hundred
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WaI.N
Sept. r;, dtfA FOR SALE. fed
♦ Vfttiubie SO- - P and CANDLE Manufactory, fiiuate '
•; 2 c'>oveiUent part*-of the citi the works alfliott new, J
oci Za entirely original conftru&ion, and buiii ot ibe Left,
piatc-rials, and nuv b? to work immediately. Persons * aic
who wiili to requeued to apply at No. 2.735 f^ 1 ]
South Sccond Street. l * a
September 13. t t f tf pui
Treasury of the United States. de,
NOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or dit
may be Creditors of the United States, for any lamb me
of the Funded Debt, or Stock, bcirtrfe a present interefl vf fix
P"r centum per annum.
i ft, That pursuant to an Ad. of Congrefc pafled on the
28th day of 1796, intitied an ait in addition to an
*A, intituled " An aft making further pro vision tor the
f-ipport of public credit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the faid'debt or (lock will be reimbursed and " tl
paid in manner following,to wit. " First, by dividends
to-be made" a:; the lalt days of March, June and Scptem
" ber for th-iprefent year, and from the year one thousand
"' seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou- _
44 sand eight hundred & eighteen inclufive,at the rate of
u one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last. day of
" December for the present year, and from the year one
44 thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
" one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at -
il the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
-4t ginal cajjital; and by a dividend to be ma e on the last
44 day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
**. quate, according to the contrail, for the final redemp
-14 tfion-of the said ftofck."
ad. All diftin&ion between payments on account of
Intercfl and Principal being thus aboliflied by the eftiblifh
jnent of the permanent rule of reimbursement abova de
scribed, it has become necefiary to vary accordingly the
.powers of attorney for receiving dividends ;th public
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
is eftabiifhed for all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MENBT THESE PRESENTS, that
I of ln
do make, conjlitute and appoint
of my true and lawful At
torney, for pic, and in my name, to receive the dividends wb-cb are,
or fiall be payable according to law, on the (herfe dcfcribing the
{lock)- flanding in my name in the books of (here describing the
books of the Treasury or the Commiflloner of Loans,
where the (lock is credited) from (here insert tfie com
mencement and'expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) with power ulfo an attorney or attor
nies under him, for that purptfe to male andfubflitute,and t» do all
lawful ails requifitefor effecting tbe prtmifes, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that my said Attorney tr hisftbflitute,fhal I lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof.
In Witness hereof \ I have hereunto fit my Hand and Seal the
day of in the year
Sealed and Delivered
in prefenc\of\
BE. IT KNO WN, that on the day of
efore meperfonally came
within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be
bis. a6l and deed.
In teflimony whereof I have hereunto set my Hand and affix
ed Seal the day and year la (I aforefaid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Ireafurer ef the United States.
July w tg* st I J.
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOT ef GROUND thereunto belonging,
the weft fide ef Third-street, near Union-ilreet
containing in front 34 feet, and in depth 100 feet, to an
alley leading irto'Union-ftreet. The house is 32 feet front
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
large, commodious, and completely finifked; the twofirft
■stories are each 13 feet high; there are 20 mahogany
doors in the house ; a geometrical llaircafe, with mahoga
ny rails <iad a good Iky-light. The kitchen is in the cell
ar, winch is fpacioijs and convenient, and finilhed with an
oven, slew-holes and pantries, a servants' hall and large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an
area in which there is a pump The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat three-story
brick house, on the north fide of Union-street, contain
ing 30 feet front by 40 feet deep; the lower part of which
is at present! occupied as a compting-houfe, and the upper
part divided into w«U-finiflied large chambers. This house
may at a small expense be converted into a convenient
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the front
and back have Venetian window-lhutters. Adjoining the
last house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are ere&ed
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good coach
lioiife and ftablrs finilhed (or nearly so) with any >ri
the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
in depth 011 the waft fide of said alley 54 feet. There are
good cellars undej the whole-os the buildings, and a wine
room over part of the liable, with a hay-loft over the re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
f DWARD BGNSrtLL & Co.
At their Office No 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Pear
t &1 (Ireett.
6'.h momh 24th, 1796.
Lands ot the United States
Treasury Department, slugujl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given, .
TN purfuar.ee of an ail ofCongrefs, pafled on the 18th
A day.of May, 1796, entitled " An ail providing" for
the sale of the lands of the United States, in the Territo
ry Horth weft of the river Ohio, and above the ihouth of
Kentucky river," that the fcftions or lots of land defcri
feed in the annexed schedule, lying in the seven ranges of
townships, which were surveyed in pursuance of an ordi
nance of Congrefs,paffed on the twentieth day of May,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five,
wil! be exposed for sale at Public vendue, in the town ol
Pittsburgh ia Pennsylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
October next, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the firft day of December enfuiag, unless the laid lots {hall
be sooner fold, in the manner, and on the terms and con -
ditions herein after mentioned, to wit:
ill. The said fe&ions or lots fhill be fqld under the di
reflion of the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter
ritory, and such person as the President of the United
States may specially appoint for that purpose.
2(1. The said fe&ions or lots ftr.U be fold to the
bidder, but no sale can be made for less than two dollars
fer acre of the quantity of land contained in such lot or
teflion.
3. Thehigheft bidder as before mentioned, mufl depo
■Ct at the time of sale, one twentieth part of thepurchafe
money, in the hands of such perfoo as the President of the
United States lha!l appoint to attend the sales for that pur
pose, which wilt be forfeited, if a moiety of the sum bid,
including the said twentieth part, shall not be paid within
thirtydays from the time of sale.
4th. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchafc money
in the manner before mentioned, the purchaser will be
entitled to or.e year s credit for - the remaining moiety ;
W ilialj receive frem the Governor «r Secretary of the
Western Territory, ana the perl'on who {hail be appointed
by the President of the United States, todiroi trie CUei,a
certificate describing tha lot or f vlion purchafed,and de
claring the sum paid onaccount, the bs lance remain in 5; due,'
the time when luch balance becomes payable, and th?t i
th whole land therein tter.tioned ,wiil b j fcrfeiicd, if 'Jte j
kid balance is not then paid ; bvt if the CaiA balance
"be duly difchirged,by paying' - - fa?ne tothe rreafurer o*
the United States, the pu'rchaftr or his affignce or other
legal representative, 9iall he entitled to a patent for the
said lands, on his producing to the State a re
ceipt for such balance endorsed upon the ceffncate. But
if any purchaser (hall make payment of the whole of the
purchase money, at the time when ,the payment of t.ie J
firft moiety is diretfled to be made, he will be en' itled to a
deduction of ten per canrum on the part for which a ere-
dit Uauthorised to be given ; and his patent shall be >m-
mediately iffuad. _ ( | e [
Given under my hand at Philadelphia, the day and
year above mentioned. -
OLIVER WOI.COTT,
Secretary of the Tfeafury
Schedule of feßions of townjliips, or fractional parts da
of town/hips, to be fold at P'ntjburgh, inpurfuance
of the 6th feaion of an aft of Congress, pajfid on
the 18lb day of May, 1796.
—• hi;
0" i 1 i dc
J 8 » Jl B J
■s S3 •« •t so o|o
«5 < O o < 2 o < 2 O.
Z . 2 Z I Z t
— • • - St
iftRAJfGF. 6t h Township. 6th Range. in
ift Townfiiip. f!ai2 64o!each iftTownlhip. t {,
a 8 J65 14 ' 17 3| 10
29 256 95 17320 f»4ojeach 18 270 n<
30 250 75 15336 640 each : 21 gSO b<
34 240 90 BthTown(hip. 11 166 40 ar
35136 64ojeach 3ai4 64o|each 23 427 fh
2d Townlhip 17320 64c each £4 - 640 f ' !
19 140 23 640 !27 iji 80 b<
»o 170 70 253301640 each 28330640 each ti
-11 185 33 a -^ 6 640 each j33 58 P;
22 2 30 iothTownfhip. '34136 640 each
15 488 80 xa2 1640 each 2d Townlhip. Vj
a6a27 640 each ,sai4 i 64oeach 1 126
28 5*60 i7aio-|640 each 2
29 551 60 233361640 each 3 44 g
30 564 i2thTownlhip. 4 456 t ;,
640 each iai4 64c[each 5 464 | 1(
4thTown(hip. 17320 640|e3ch 6 472 ce
19 64 23836)640 leach 7 340 g i
2 l ''X f, B^464oeach
26 38760 lftTo^nfhr 1732064? each
2 ' 36 a.C 2 S a 3<> 640 each
21332 64oeath a'l°(, . 0 3<i Tovnftip.
33 616 39 640 1 470
34 445 20 34 615 4 478
2 "l .55336 640 each 3 4
jlhTonulhip. rfTownllip. * «J 0
4■» ,1 Siih ■» „ s
12 479 so \ I 7 ai 4 640 each
17 3°4 IS o ' 17320 640'cach
ll 9a 12 each
®3 450 ?5 ~. jthTownlhip.
24 64Q , * I rtg 1
29 I«4 14 40 , 2 26 I
on 17320640 each 4 a
3 , 12 g 0 23336 54oeach 3 J34 0
36 640 3dTown(hip. 4 54 ° 1
3 = 1 ar 4 6 4 0 each { 548
j ad Range. 17320 64c-jeach >% $$ .
j iftTownfhip. 640 each 7*14640-^
28 I 7120 s thTownlhip. I " il ° 640 esch
34 6150 iai4]64oleach * 3 , a i. 4c«ac
-3d Townlhip. f732oj64o'each
34»»6 64°-sch 23236:640 each 1
28 499 16 7thTownftiip. 1 40
j' 29 640 132 64o(e3ch 3 S7 °
37333 640 each ja7 64o'e3ch 4 60
4thTown(hip. 12.373 640 each •' 593
11 26 40 18319 640 e3ch CTI • .
1 li 397 50 25 640 each
E 13 Ji 5° 30336 640 each '7 az °64:each
: 15 2/ 5° 9thTownlhip. 23336 64« each
t 16 259 20 iai4|64oje3ch" i ovnlhip.
17 524 178120 64oe3ch i3i4 64ojeach
18 64c " -23336 64cteach ?7 aj ° 64c?jeach v
19 635 nth Townlhip. i3 a 36 6 4 oeach
1 20 584 80 i3i4k)4oe3ch' nth Townlhip.
: 21 63611 17320 64o'e3ch] !3i4 64o;each
i[ 52336 640 e3eh 23336:640 esch i7 a i0640 each
sthTswnfhip. 131hTownfhip. 2 3 a 36,640 .tacli
f I 5 636 1 ai4l64oleach JthTownlhip.
617 64©e3ch 17320:640 each 131464 c each
1 23325 64c each i3a36|64o}each 64C|each
r 27318640 each 23336 640, each
e 32136''64c each 5 n i AN^ F " tst>'Townlhip.
' 7thTownfhip. I" iowjiihip. iai4|64o , each
1 3. 1640J 18 ' 2 74 40 I7ato|64oieach
BthTownAip. 22 •5® 23a36!640e3ch
d l 135 640 each 23 417 50 7thR = GF .
n 6 440 lb - Q xfl Townhip.
d 7a 14 640 cach 20 7° , D .
J 17320 640 each 11 W*o
£ IthfoMp. *9330640 each idTowsfiip.
f.r.r, 3* 18 3 35i
8 312 30 32 '-< 84 80 4 a L
11 640 3333664 c cach 536 640 each
i?aii 6ac-3ch 2< lTownfliip. 9 *96
3d Range. 5 456 14
id Townlhip. 6 464 80 20
15 640 7 250 13314 640 each
li 16 600 8 618 2 5 38c
r l 20 557 5° 93i4 64oeach 16337 64o|eich
2X221 640 each 17320 640 each 4thTownfhip.
f »3 609 2333616401 each lal4 6 4oje»ch
i-I 640 e3ch 4th t ownlhip. 6 4 oeach
)f 3d Townlhip. 1314 640 esch 2 3 a 3 6 64cleach
9 188160 17320 64oeach 6thTownlhip.
" I 10 344 23336 640|e3ch 1314]640.e3ch
=' " 267 6thTownlhip. I 1 ?3201640 each
14 152 tai4 6 4 oJeach *3336 6 4 o|each
j. J 14 20250 17a20 64cb3ch | SthTownftup.
II .1 *5 630 23336 64 o[ ;ach ; 1314 640 e3oh
; j *6318 640 each «thTo\vnfhip. , 1 7 a ic 64c each
19 117 50 1 314164 C eavh 13336 640 each
j. 1 . 10 616 75 17120 6*o each lothTownfcip.
T . I aiaj6 640 each 13336(640 each 13 14 640 esch
:dl 4th Townlhip. lothTownlhip. x 7320 6 4P esch
1 170 lai4l64oleict« 2 3336 64c esch
:ft| 4 544 :732c 640K\ch iithTowrilhip.
irs] 3 340 23a36164c1eac1i | Ilr 4 6 4 o,each
or! 4 450 1 zth Townlhip. il?»4c. 640 each
5 Il<? 13i4j6401e3ch *3 a
c-1 6 64c 1732c|54c4e3ch I4, hTownftip.
lfe I 7 563 i3a36l64o!eSch ] la M|64o]each
he J 829 64c each MthTownfhip. i7320'6 4 o | !each
>r-I 10 54c 80 , zsi4|s/joie3ch i 2 3 a 36 64c each
id, J II 529 7 o I 7 S2C 64c!esch i^hTownlhip.
Jin J *2314 640 each 43a361640|eac1i | la i4 64olesch
I 17340 640 each : ji7S2o 64ojeach
I 33336 640 each 1 1143336 64o|each
DC 1
r;J f note.
THEquantides ol Lands in th» several townlhip,'be-
Tl "L To£ the Lots « served !>y the
i Un "f State « alfo v of formerly fold -The ag-
th. several tow„lhir s or fraAional
W1 P °L taw n&'ps, save been ascertained by afiual fur
-4 I ~ZL ; 2 Baa^ ,CT ; n P art 'cilar iots or fedior.., have
1 hcca 00 oWKTTvife afcerra'mpd ihan by calculation
Lands of tHe United State;-.
Treafary Department,'
August B', 179^-
'Public Notice.is hereby gfren,
: TN pursuance of anna of Con-reft patted on the iMh
L dar of Vlav 1796, entitled "-n a& providing _ fox
1 the sale of 'the Lands of the United States, in the terr.torj
north-weft of the river' Ohio, and above " t:.= mou 1 .
' K • ltucky river," that the Quarter 1 owsfli.ps of lan,
t deVcHbed'in the Annexe,! fchcdulc, lying>* theleven rang
es ot tow" (hips which were surveyed in pursuance ot at
es.at towamipj d tvrentiet h day o
until the tenth day of February tnfuing. tolcfs the. fai
' quarter townrtiips !hall be fosnsr fold in the manner an.
1 t [, c tcriss and condition? hereinafter mentioned . viz
ift. The said tjuarter townlhips ihall be fold to .h
- h'-.'iell bidder, but no sale can be made for less than tw
dollars per acre of the quantity of land contained in fuc
Id The highell bidder as before mentioned, must dt
oofit'a* the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur
chare money, in the Hinds of the Treasurer of the Unite
= States, which will be forfeited if a moiety of the sum b,
including the said twentieth part, Ihall not b« paid with.
thirty days from the time of sale;
id Upon payment of a moiety of the purchafe-mt
ney in the manner befor-mentioned, the purchaier wi
be entitledto one year's credit for the remaining moiety
and shall receive a certificate defcribmg the quarter towr
(hip purchased, and declaring the fun. paid on accoun
the balance remaining due, the time when such balam
becomes pavable, and that the whole Land therein mei
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not the
paid ; but if the said balance shall be duly discharged, b
paying the fame to the Treasurer of the United State
the purchaier or his affign-e or other legal reprcfentat.v
Ihall be entitled to a patent for the said land, on his pre
to th- Secretary of a receipt for such balanc
endorfedupqn the certificate. But if any purchaser fha
make payment of- the whole of the purchaft money at tl
time wlvn the payment of the firft mowty is direded 1
be made, he v 1 be entitledto a dedutfion of ten pi
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to 1
given ; andhia patent shall be immediately issued.
GIVEN under my hand at Philadelphia, tha d;
and year abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
SCHEDULE
Of Quarter-Townships to be fold at Philadelphia, in pu
fuaiKe of the 6th fed ion of an ail of Congrcfs passed <
the x Bth day of May, 179 6.
o cx
00 2 c:
A S c
• u. ~ >
<u •- r; y >
r~ 19 O
= c 5 H
«! O » u ~
<3 5 I 5
o 0 Z - < g.S
£oS ~ «
£o I 3
E-<
2 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5129
North Weft 5120
s*— : ' XC)ifOe
3 5 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
j 20,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
9 South East y 129
North Ealt 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20.480
11 S&uth East 5120
North East 5120
South Weil 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
4 4 South* East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft
5 120 I
20,480
6. South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft j 120
NortfyWeft 5120
20,480
8 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
10 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft; 5120
| 20,480
12 South East J 120
North Eaftj j 120
South Weft 5120
North Welti 512s
[20,4^0
5 3 South East! 4602
North East 4654
South Weft 5120 ■*
North Weft 5 20
19,49 6
5 South East 5120
North East 5120
• South Weft 5120
North Weft JI2O
—— 253,480
7 South Eas Jl2O
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
NorthWeA 5120
be- j 20,480
the £> South East 5120
North East 5120
Sjuth Weft Jl2O
have North Weft 5120
j 20,480
»
J ts ~
± i's j\ H
£- -s « I ; ill
*" C . Q • J
It i j
3 H £! J! —
U- > y "5 " J 1
9 Ji • C rt
. r° S < s u
or" 1 j- £ ,s"» 1
' "ij i
I —■* J * i
, ~~c II ISoutb Eafl|sl2o
f ' iNorth EaHJy(2O
South W-ft 5 12,0j
North Weft 5 i zo }
-—' 20,480
( 13 South East 5120;
1 jNoith £.1(15120'. ■ i
(South Wefi j 120, i
North Weft j.i 20' |
I —t-; 20,480 !
6 4 South East 4630:
North East 4620'
South Weft 5 1 20' j j
I I North Weft 15 120' 1
n 1 I ! 9.490
6 South East 4730 i
North East 4715
" Sou h Weft ? 120
' iNerth Wcft|s 120
t, ■ j. | —!' 19.585
:e 8 South East 5120
1- [North East 5120
n South Weft 5 120
y .North Weft 51 20
9 ' D
c, | 20,480
>- 10 South East 5120
=> North Eajl|s!2o
" South Weft'sl 20
North Welt 5120
:r . | 20,480
ic 12 South '
,y South Weft 5 1 20
North Weft 5t20
20,480
14 South Eafi ji 20'
North East 5 120
South Weft 5 1 20
r _ North Weft 5 120
in 20,480
7' 3 South East 5 120
= North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120 v
20,480
f South East 5 12c
North East 5 [20
South Weft 5 12©
North Weft 5 120
20,480
7 South East 5 120
North' East 5120
South Weft 5 120
Nofth Weft 5 120
20,480
9 South East et 20
~ ""North LaH 5 iToT
South We'' 5:1 20
i North Weft j 120
20,480
11 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft y 1 20
, 20,480 '
13 Somth Eaftji2'o
North East 5 120
South We!! j 120
North Weft 5
120 I
' 20,480
15 South Eafi y 120
North Eafi 5 1 2a
South We(' j 1 20
North Weft 5120 >
i I 20,480
NOTE.
'THE quantities of Lands in the feweraltownftips hi*
fore mentioned, are exclafive of the S;&:ons jeferved ' a Y
the United States. The aggregate quantities in the fevc
ral townihips, kave been afcertjjir.ed i>y a&ual survey ; but
the quantities in the quarter tewnfhips, have been no
otherwise afcertalned than by L_ —
Washington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has suthoriW
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
hundred, and fifty dollars, for the pytpofe of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, froHi th
tomacto the East em Branch Haruour. ,
The following is '.he SCHEME of No- '•
Viz 'I Prize of 10,000 dpliars, 40,000
1 ditto 10,000 10,000
7 lad drawn 7 „ , r^ n
Tickets, each j *' Co ° 35,00 °
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4>°°o
40 ditto zoo a,OOO
55 ditto jo i,7J°
J750 ditto 1 x 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, *6,450
,JESO Prizes,
Il6jc Blanks, not two to a prize.
17.T00 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - J7J.000 ,
The CommiHioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aft for the punctual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as loon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given,
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after ths
drawing is fir.ifhed, (hall be coniidert d as relinqulfted for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, c/D>
LEWIS DEBLOJS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. m. duncanson,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Waihingtoa, Feb. ii/ $ ' '
PRINTED BY JOHN f£NNO. s
—No. 119 —
C H ES » VT-STREET.
£?rjcc Eight Collars per AdjiCSS.J