of the lilted States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser. ;
* Nvmjm* 12AC.1 MONOAT EVENING, SEPTEMBER 5, 1796, ITgM'Mf 1.,;,
„ — — i J 1 r* 1- .. n : . . I
ROSS & SIMSON, 4
HAVE FOR SALE, *
EXCELLENT FOURTH PROOF
Jamaica Spirits; I
And to dispose of,
The fine, fact-failing schooner
Tggj&W SWA LLO W,
Of Baltimore, about 140 tout burthen.
August 2g. dtt
For Sale or Charter,
THE faßt ' sailing ship
te&tgk* LIGHT-HORSE,
lying at Me,r - j- & r Wain ' s whar{
two hundred and seventy tons burthen, a flout, ftreng
vessel, and well faund. For terms apply to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Sept. I. -
• At South-street wharf, '
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft. August,
by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and sloop Sally,
from Port-au-Frinee,
300 Hhds. COFFEE,
1 70 Hhds. SUGAR.
Also, the cargo of the Swedish brig Gufaf Adolphc,
capt. Ramfre, from Gibraltar,
ill and 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
Hazle Nuts in sacks
Sit. Übes SALT, for faleby
PETER BLIGHT.
'a For Charter,
* The said brig
Gust a f Adolphe,
f*~ i. A Swede, with a Mediterranean pass,
a very fine veitel, about 200 tons bur
-tW— Aug. >g. _ jzweoaw
FOR SALE,
JGjklr. The ship STAR,
J ohn VahnemaN, Master,
T YINO at Walnut-ftrtet wharf, Philadel-
Lj phia built, of live oak and cedar, will
carry about 3xoo barrels, is two years old, and in corn
plea':: order to receive a cargo-—For terms apply to
THQS.&JOHN KETLAND.
Who have also fbr sale said veffek cargo—confining of—
Wine and Porter bottltes,
Window Glass, 6by 8 to 16 by U.
Pipes in boxes.
Earthen-Ware in crates. ,
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, &c.
[ : *"g-29 _ *
For Sale,
Or for Charter to the Wei-Indies,
*§§&; c e"r""e s,
v Philadelphia Built,
F Live Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 3500 bar
' / rels, now discharging at Latimer's wharf. lliis ves
sel is in excellent repair, well fouud and will bear a tho
rough examination, andasfoon as discharged will be tea
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to
J ohn-Vsragkar*.
July 2% 5
FOR SALE.
%||!||> The Brig PUNCH,
~ An entire new vessel, built, finidied and fitted
in the best manner. One hundred and thirty-fix
tons burthen, and will fail remarkably fact. For
terms apply to Mr. N. Sage, at the George tavern,
or to JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
Au°u/26, 1796. £'°- .
For Sale or Charter,
B 0 s T O N,
fitTRTHEN about 1000 Bbls. of flour—fhe may be sent
to lea at a fm.xll expeuce, her fails and rigging being in
v-ry good order—apply to
fames Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April 29, . §
CABLES,
From 16 co 9 £ inches, for sale by
Jeremiah Warder,
j u jy ji § No 11 north Th-ftirdreet.
~ TAKE NOTICE. "
THE fubferiber intends to make application for a re
newal of the following certificate, supposed to be
loft on the paffjge to England in April 1794 :
Certificate No. 10335, dated 15th November, 1793,
for 1830 dollars and 91 cents—Six per cent, domcftic
deit, on the books of the Treasury of the United States
in the name of the Hon. John Trevor.
v , ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's.
Philadelphia, August 30th, 1796. *zaw 6w
. ~' " NOTICE.
rr>HE Subfcriber r having been reduced in his circum
X itances, by funary misfortunes, and beiag thereby
nuable to latisfy his jult debts, hereby gives notice to his
Creditors and to all perfens concerned, that he intends to
apply to the General AffemSly of Maryland at their next
fefluin to be held on the firft Monday of November next,
for the benefit of an ad of insolvency.
• WILLIAM EDMONDSON
Eafton, ift of the 9th month. 1796. lawtiltMN
FOR SALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
in pipes and hoglheads
Claret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
B;fket Salt", in hogiheads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 3nd 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Rufiia, in barrels
Anchor*, cables', junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas,
Tin plates—-An invoice Stationary, by '
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
July 19. §_
IV ANTED,,
An APPRENTICE to the Printing Bufimfs.
F-cquirc at this Otlicc. Aug. 19
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut 1
street, between Front and Second streets, in which
Meltrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for man) years (and
now do) carried on business.
PolTefTion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH. I
April ai. §
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the hfjl quality and nn reafonahle terms>
ITOR SALi. - . <
Philip Nicklin 'iff Co.
16. dtf I
Win. HOLDERNKSSE,
' No. 76 High Street,
TT AS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe ani
II the East Indies, a well feleftcd aflortmsr.t of Silk
Mercsry, Linen Drapery and Haberdashery Goods; which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms ;
AMONGST which are,
Some fine India mullins embroidered with gold and fflver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto .1
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffetics.luteftrings and colored Pcrfians
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and Ihort Nankeens
English Mantuas of the firft quality
Damask table linen and papkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant affortmiint
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd de. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irish Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
French Goods.
Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-de-
Grace,
2° Tranlcs all colors forts and sizes ,
1 Gale J % •
1 Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS
I Ditto Fine LAWN
j Ditto best fine CAMBRIC ,
I Ditto Ladies' best (hammy and Grenoble Gloves
For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KEI LAND.
Aug. i_ I
* A x ßook-Keeper,
OR Clerk's place is wanted by a person properly quali- \
fled, and whose charafler will be founil unexception
able. Apply to the Printer.
Aug. 11 'f
' FOR SALE,
( A Complete Font of Brevier,
ENtirely ne\i , and yet unopened. The weight of this
font is about 3121b. It is front the Foundery of
Wilson & Sons, Glafgow,and will be fold at cost 8c charges.
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Choice.
Enquire at the Officc of the Gazette oi the Unitde
States, 119 Chefnut»ftreet. Aug. 19 §4W
New-England RUM in Hhds.
COUNTRY GIN in barrels,
JUNIPER BERRIES in Calks,
SPERMACETI,
COMMON WiIALE, and [ OIL.
TANNERS )
SPERMACETI CANDLES,
Tatts"w PKIJ," xtTguUl a>id '■. ■ , ■
White SOAP, in Byxes
Best Boston BEEF> in barreli and half barrels
CODFISH, in hhds,
Best Boston MACKREL, in barrels,. and
A few choice fmoaked SALMON, For S;le by
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
Also, a fmjll invoice of wellafl'orted
IN X) I a 1 GOOD S,
JUST ARUIVED.
• Aug. 2} fio
A very valuable Merchant Mill,
A DISTILLERY and BREWERY-, and sundry STONE
QUARRIES to be let.
I will rent my merchant Mill at the little Falls of Po
towmac, for any term not less than l'even, nor more than
eleven years, frohi the firft day of September next. The
mill-house is 41 by 40. feet, three stories high, built with
stone, and has in it three pairs of French Burr Stones, two
overshot iS feet water-wheels, and Evans's machinery
complete, with every other thing proper and necelTary for
carrying on the business with dispatch, and at as little ex
penfc as pofiible, all ill good order—From the mill to my
landing on she I?«ltomac river, (wherecraft, of any bur
then maydeiiver grain and take in flour) it is about 40
yards, and from thence by water to George-Town and
the City of Walhington, about 3 miles, and to Alexan
dria .'.bcnit 11 m:!< 'lili- fif-.in* ,t>n, aitied by a fttf&eienl
capital, will command the produce of a very extensive
back country, where large quantities of wheat and other
grain is annually made, the distance to it being from 8
tp 1 o miles less than to any market town upan the navi
gation of the Potowmac. There are on the premises a
lai*ge stone Coopers' Hup, a stone granary, and a commo
dious miller's house. At the landing aforefaid a bridge
is now building over the Potomac, which is in great for
wardnefs and probably will be finilhed the ensuing fall.
There are also on the premises, a Brewery and Diftillc
ry, built with stone, in them are three stills, two coppers
or toilers, with every necelTary articlc, all new, and in
good order, and fufficiently large to carry 011 the Brew
ery and Distillery upon a Very c&tenfive plan. This prop
erty I will rent for the fame term of years.
Upon my laads adjoining the premises, ?nd along the
banks of the river, where craft may lead with ease and dis
patch, is an inmenfe quantity of building and lounda
-1 tion-ftones. Four quarries are now open, and as many
more may be opened with ease : the stone taken frqm these
quarries is better, and has the preference at this market,
to any other stone brought to it. I will rent these quarries
separately or together a? may btft suit.
On the top of the hill, and about zoo yards from the
mill, is« stone Dwelling-house, large enough for the ac
commodation of a family : also, a kitchen, dairy, fmokt
houfe, &c. and a garden, enclcfed and in cultivation, the 1
foiof which is equal in goodness to any in this state. I
will also lent this property.
Adjoining to the Brewery and Distillery is a Smith's
(hop, ii) which is a complete fct of Blaekfmith's tools,
which I will also rent, and if agreeable I Will hire to the
tenant two negro blacksmiths, one of them is a complete
workman.
If I rent out the stone quarries, I will fell three crafts,
which were built for the purpofc of carrying ftor.e : they
will altogether bring upwards of 90 perch. Immediate
1 potfeflion will be given, l'or terms apply to the fubferib
er in this town.
The Mill, Brewery and Distillery, with their appurten
ances, will be dejiverad to the tenant or tenants in good
repair,'and must be so returned, at the expiration of the
lease orleafes,
PHILIP RICHARD FENDALL.
Alexandra, Aug. 16 —25
JufF Arrived,
In th« Snow Boston, Jarnes Kirkpatrick, maltcr from Li
verpool,
5000 Bushels SALT ;
100 Crate s QCTEENS WARE ; and 7
An Afiortnient of SHIP CHANDLERY ;
FOR SALE
On board, at Pine-flreet wliarf.- Apply to
'*> fames Campbell, or
George Latimer.
Avtjl *9-
St. CroTxSI'GAR amfMOLASSES-
Landing from on board tlv. fchooncr Little Tom, Capt.
Thomas Dennett, at Race-ftrcet wharf,
A choice parcel of St. Croix Sugar,
and a few hogsheads of Molasses.
For Sale by
Pragers and Co.
Auglift 3c dio
Sales of India Goods.
.The Cargo «f the (hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta aud Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
A Large and general aflortment of Bengal and Madras cc
CO ITQN and SILK GOODS. *
AMONCt WH'CH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Mu/lins,
Doreas, Isfc. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, "
In hoxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings lsf Francis, c b :
No. 21 Penn Street. ni
June 8 - §_
"take notice,
r_ T 11J AT application will be made for the renewal of
1 the following certificates, iH'utJby Joseph Koui fe-
Register of the Treasury, in the name of Roger'Gril'
wold,' Esq. of Norwich, Conneilicut—
I certificate, fix per cent domestic ftpek, No. 13,907
—dated the 17thDecember, 1795, bearing intcreft from
the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65-100 dol
-1 ditto, thre' per cent, domestic stock, No. j0,68a
—dated December 16, 1795, bearing interest from the
firft diy of January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dollars.
I ditto, deterred .stock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th c ]
December, 1795, bearing interest from the firft Janu
ary, 1801, for 798 dollars.
Said certificates are supposed to have been, loft or
fto!en in this citv some time in December or Janua.y
last. JOSEPH IIIOMAS,
No. North Front-street.
Philadelphia, July 21, 1796. d6w.
~ FOR SALE,
JCOFFEE, in hhds. bbU. & bags f (
COTTOM, of Pemerafa, and>catitledto drawback
SOAL-LEATHER )
Also,
BOSTON Mould and Dipt' CANDLES.
Apply io ISAAC HARVEY, Jun.
No. 5 south Wator-ftreet.
mo. 20. 0 j'- v 1
Prime St. Croix Sugar & Rum,
i-anding at Cliffords Wharf, from on board the brig (
Pragers, ( apt. Thomas Wat.on—
Aad for Sale by
Pragers & co.
Au3afti6. diot.
At-a Jpecial meeting cf the Board of Di- *
reSors for ejlablijhing ufefiil Manufaciurer, holden
at Paterfon, July 8, 1796,
RESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock
holders of the Society be called on the firlt Monday,
being the third ay of Odlober next, at Paterfon, by ten
of the clock of the fame day; then and there to take
into consideration the propriety of dissolving the said 1
corporation, agreeably to the law in such cafe made and I
provided—and the Stockholders are tarneftly requsfted
to attend the said jji»eting in person or by proxy.
August 27 dt3othO
DUTY ON j
Notke is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably tp an a6i of Congress of the United
States of America, palfed at Philadelphia, the 28th day
of May, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey
ance of persons, and repealing the forrtier a&s for that pur
pol'e.—That there (hall be levied, collected and paid, upon
all carriages for thr conveyance of persons, whifih shall be
kept by or for any person, for his or h«r own uie, or to let ,
out to hire, or for th? conveying of passengers, the fevcral du
ties aftd rates following, to wit.
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols. 1
uprtn every Chariot, I 2 dols.
upon every Post Chariot, A i dols.'
upon every Post Chaise, 12 dols. 1
upon every Phatfon, with or without top, q dols 1
upon every Coachee, 9 dojs. 1
updn other Carriages, having panne < work above,
with blinds, glaffesor curtains, 9 dols. - <
upon four wheel carriages, having framed pods and
top* with steel springs» 6 dols. .
upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron {
I'pringS or jacks, 3 dols. ,
upon curricles with lops, 3 dels.
tiponchaifes with tops, 3 dols.
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols.
uj.on sulkies with tops, 3 d^ls.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with flcel or iron springs,
3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel caniages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheel carriage, having framed ports
and tops, and relViug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
The Coik&ors of the Revenue ot the firft iurvey of the
Diftrift of Pcnnfylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day
of September next, for the purpose ofreceivkig the duties on t
! C<"'r.ages, at No. 117, in Race or Saffafras street, in iheCuy (
ot Philadelphia, at the houfc of Daniel S. Clair, Efq in the
County ot Montgomery ; and at the houfc of Abraham Du
bois, Esq. in the County of Bucks; oi which all persons pof
felfed of such Carriages are defircd tu take notiee.
Notice is also given, •
TO afl relail dealers in Wir.es, and foreign diflifted spirit
tuous liquors, that licences .will be granted to them ; one li •
cencefor carryingon the bulinefs ot retailing of Wiue6, in a t
less quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one ;
licence for carrying on the bufiii-ls of retailing Spirituous li
quors in less quantities than ao gallons, at the fame time and
places, by the officers legally authorised to grant
such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeftor of the Revenue ot the firft
' of the dillrict of Penufyivania.
Office of Infpe£Hon,at J
Philadelphia, 21 ft July, <796. {
Carolina Rice,
In tierces—
A few pipes of fourth pr oof Brandy,
7 by 9 and 8 by io Window Glass,
For K:Je by
Gurney & Smith.
August 31.
Dutch Goods,
Received by the Jrom AniJlerd&Tn.
GIN, in pipes
Morlaix
Titklenbiirgs > 1b Bales
Ofnaburgs J
gfe } ■ s ""-
Hollands DUCK,Tin ditto
Ravens 3 - i .
Bedticks, in ditto
Bnttagne, >
Platilles j
For Sale by THOMAS \5? JOHN KETLAND.
AUg. §
BRA NDY,
Of lft and 4th proof, and equal in quality to that import
ed from France, may be had of the fubferiber at his DiiUl*
Icry, No. 115, Story or New-street, between Third and
Fourth-ftreeu, where the public, upon application, may
judge for theinfelvesj and will find it an obj£& well worth
their attention.,
RUfv} and GIN in any quantity, for or home
consumption, and of fupef»or quality—by
Thomas Cave.
P.S RYE, BARLEY, and MEHSSES* will
be purcbafed, 01 taken in exchange for spirits, upon appli
cation as above. Also any quantity of Claret or other wine
fit for diftiliation.
1796. M^w
Philip Nicklin & Co.
' >7 HM T E FOR SALE,
Souchong
Hylon Skin /
Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS
Hylon and \ .
Imperial
Yellow Nankeens
Chi%a Ware, aliorted in Boxes and Chells
-Quiokfilvi r
Bafiiiarmo Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
chests
London Market } MADEIRA WIN li
London particular }-in pipes, hogfliead6, &
New-Yoik Market ) quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogli-eads
Sugar Can2y by the Box
SaifCanvas No. I a S
I,pad in flieets
3 Calks of Cutlery ?.fTorted
A few elicits of Maiichefter Goods, aflbrted thick
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
' 3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
8 Tierces Virgini4 Snake-root.
Zails aflbrted in calks
July 18 mw&f
PRINTING PRESSES7~& C r
The fubferibers ha'e for sale two complete New Mahogany
Printing-Preffes. one of' which will toke in a sheet of
fupet-i oyal. They have liktwijg on hard..
r Cases, brass rules, and all kinds ot Printer's fumltßre, &.c.
Also, Smith's Work of all kinds, done at the (hoiteft
notice, by /
John Innes £if Co.
Back of No. 77, Dock-ilreet, corner of Carter's Alley.
- 31* eo3
a Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third ftrset,-oppcfitetbenationalnew Bank.
f , OAMUEL M .FR-iUNCiiS and JOHN RKED,
n O hive ente/ed into co-partnerfliip, under the firm of
:e FRAIjNCES & VAN'REED, in the business of Brokers,
d Conveyancers and Cooimiflion merchants. They buy and
4 fell on commimon every species of stock, notes of hand,
d .bills of exchange, houses and lands, $cc.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and
difp.itch; accounts adjusted, and bocks fettled, in the
moll correct manner. CoSllant attendance will be »iven.*
They solicit a lhare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to defer ve it.
N. B. The utmoll secrecy observed.
j SAMUIiL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. August 17, 1796. in&wtf
n Lottery and Broker's Oifice,
K No. 64, South Second stxsst.
" 'T'ICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. s, for fa I*—»
J. Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and rsgiftering, for
the City of 'Waftiington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes'exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New
e. Port Long-W narf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wilh to pwchafe or fell Bank Stock,
10 Certificates, Bills of or Notes, Heufes, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, August 18, 1796. taw
Diftrid of Pemnfylvania: to wit
s, T)E it remembered, that on the sth day of August, in
13 the twentieth year of the independence of the Unit
ed States of America, William Coibett, of the (aid
' s diftiid, hath depofiied in this office the title of a book,
3 ' the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words
,£ following: to wit.
y >< The life and adventures of Peter Porcupine ; with a
" " full and fair account of all his authoring tranfaflions:
y " being a sure and infallible guide for all
j. " young men who wilh to make a ferlune by writing
■j «• pamphlets, By Peter Porcupine.hinifelf.
" Now, you lying varlets, you shall fee how a plain
" tale will pnt you down." Shakespeare.
in conformity to the a& of the Congress of the United
States, entitled " an aft for the encouragement of learr
' ing, by securing the copies of maps, charts and book, to
8 the authors and proprietors, during the times therein
c mentioned. Samuel Caldwell.
Clerk of the Diftriit of Pennsylvania.
'" t AOg- 8 . '
A Hf.ndfome, well-broke
SADDLE HORvSE,
y t '
For Sale, enquire at the'Coneftogo Stable's, th« owser
having r.o vfc for khx.
Aug. it «r.*fjw/; Gnat is. TfV-ru and mu/i prevail.
PJ U S T PUBLISHED.
And far fats at No- 41 Chefnut-Jlreet by J. ORMROD,
An Apology for the Bible,
By R. Watson, d. d. f. r. s.
Bifkop of Landaff, &c.
Being a complete refutation of Paine's
Age of Reason,
Aid the only anf»ver to the Second Part.
August 30. dtf
Just Published, " ,
From the Press of MOREAU DE ST. MERY,
ind to be h <f at the principal Booksellers in town,
(price one quarter of a dollar)
A PAMPHLE7 ENTITLED
The Blue Shop;
Or Impartial and Humorous Observations
on the Life and Aavmtures of
Petur Porcupine.
With the real motives which gave rife to hit abuCe of
our distinguished patriotic chara&ers.
TOGETHER WITH
A full and fair Review of his late
Scare-Crow. / -
£5" This produ&ion'is inicrcfting to all parties. 4
August: 30. dtf
Porcupine, a print,
To be had at MOREAU DE ST. MERY's, Book-Store,
No. 84. Corner of Front and Walnut-streets, and
at the principal Booksellers of this city.
Sept. a. » *3
Published, by T. STEPHENS, No. 60, South
flreit.
' The Group ;
Or, .An ELEGANT REPRESENTATION
, ILLUSTRATED.
Embellished with a beautiful head of
S. VERGES, C. S.
THE publisher thinks it a mark of refpeift, due to a
liberal and enlightened public, to inform them that
this is the Poem for the publilhing of which he has been
twice dragged fr6m hishoufe, and is bow laboring under
a vexatious profccutionr~He is confciotre that the piece
contains nothing either criminal or offenfive, unless ori
ginal wit, decorated in elegant language, be criminal or '
dlfguftiilg to the prevalent taste ; and, as he trusts that
neither of these is the cafe, he submits the work to the
public with a full assurance of its meeting with a favora- >
ble reception.
He would beg his prosecutors to call to mind (if they 1
have ever read it) the following apolcrgue to a well known
romance—" A young painter, indulging a vein of plea- 1
fantry, (fetched a kind of ConDerfatian Piece, refpefling a
bear, an o\*l, a Vionkey, and an ass; and to render it
more striking, humourous, and moral, distinguished eve
ry figure by some emblem of human life. Bruin was
txhibited in the garb and attitude of an old, toothless,
drunken soldier ; the owl perched upon the handle of a
coffee-pot, with fpe&acles on his no'fc, seemed to contem
plate a newfpapcr; and the ass ornamented with a huge
tye-wig (which, however, could not conceal his long .
ears) fat for his picture to the monkey, who appeared
with the implements of painting. This ivhmftcal group
afforded some mirth, and met with general approbation, 1
until some mischievous wag hinted the whole was a lam- '
poon upon an old officer, a physician, and a member of :
Parliament; an insinuation which was no l'eoner circulat- '
ed, than these pnople began to be alarmed, and even to 1
fancy thcmfelves fignified by the several figures in the '
piece. The furious group fell upon the A painter, who dc- '
clared that he had no design to give offence, or to cha- '
ratfterize particular petfons. They affirmed, the refenthlance '
•was M palpable to be overlouked,—and their clamours being 1
overhear* by the public, the Captain was a bear, the :
Do<3ot an -fs, and the Senator air owl, to their dying '
day."- l#*a similar fate should attend the persons who j
will infill upon being the members of this group, the 1
public will do the publisher the justice to remember that
it is no fault of his. t
August 27. dtf 1
George Dobsqn,
BF.GS leave to inform the Store-Keepers in Town and ]
Country, that he ha» removed from Market-Street to i
N°: 25, south Ttjird-ftreet,
where he is opening a Large and Elegant Assortment of the
undermentioned articles—viz.
Superfine London Cloths and Kerfevtneref,
Yorkshire second Do. Do., •
Elastic do. do. ,
MiVd and Blue Coatings
Tlannelle. See.
Manchester Printed Callieoes,
t London Chintz ditto,
* Blue and ditto Furnitures,
India ditto.
Long Cloths, Cofifaes, Baftai, Battillas& Conjevrems,
4-4 p-8 5-4 & 6-4 Superfine India Book Murlins,
4-4 and 9-8 India Book Handkerchief*,
• 4-4 and 9.8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 & 6-4 plain do. Muslins, <
4-4 & 6-4 British Jaconets,
6-4 British Checks and Stripes, <
14-4 India do. do, do. t
4-4' ditto Chiilocs, Madras Handkerchiefs, Sec. i
A large affoitment of fi£ur*id and plain Muflioets,
Quiltinps,• Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
Fancy Waiftcoatings, *
Ginghams of the firft Quality, fubjeft to Drawback,
India Nankeens,
Men's White and coloured Silk (lockings.
, Mav P 1
x Lottery
FOR railing fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduiftion of fifteen per :
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz. 1
I Prize of jooo dollars is dollars 5000 1
I 1000 . 1000
1 SCO sOO
/ 5 2co loco '
20 , 100 acoo
99 50 4950
5000 1
4000 10 40,000 '
5 Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, .5 000 1
Prizes. 44 , 4 < Q '
4018 Blanks. 3
6350 Ticketsat Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Directors of the Society for, eftabliih
ing UfefulManufa&ures, the fuperintendants of the Pat- ■
erfon Lottery have requested the Manager, to offer the 3
foregoing S.heme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to-thofe persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the ticket, for tickcts
in this Littery. ]
rhe lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
eontinue untilfinifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office of William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will giveinfortnation where tick
ets maybe procured.
Dated this j7th day of Jnne, 1796. >
J. N GUMMING, ■)
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, V Manurers. t
JONATHAN RHEA, 3 j
dtf co
1 - .
For laic by the fubferibers,
IS PFNN-STRKET,
130 quarter Chefts-frefh Hyson Tea;
, 1 <do ditto do. frell) Souchong ;
300 Boxes"Chiria, containing fkiSa tea setts of 4J
pieces;
400 pieces Bindanoes.
Willings & Francis.
S Januay JO
RAYNER TAYLOR,
Music Professor,
No. 96, North-Sixth Stkket.
' O- ESPEOTFULLY informs his Scholars, that he har
iV rs-commcnced his attendance after the funimer va
cation ;-and as ufual,teaches Ladies Singing, and the Pia
no Forie. 3■ *3' s ;
T.O BE SOLD,
That Neat and Convenient House,
WHEREIN the l'nhfcriber now lives. There are four
rooms on a floor : the house is two flories high
* with a good garret above : under the whole is un exCt 11-
ent cellar, with a dry well, in .which is a convenient
framed chamber for prefcrvingmeat, butter, See. in warm
weather. Attached t6 the house is a Stable for three
horses, hay-los , granary, and c3rriage-houfc, a wood
-4 'yard paved with stone, and a garden with foil of a fine
quality. An indisputable title will be made to the pur
chaser. For farther particulars apply tojthe fuhferiber in
Princeton, or. in hef absence to Thomas D. Johnson, Esq.
or the rev. Samuel S. Smith. 1
ANN WITHERSPOON.
Princeton, Aug 24. zawtO
FOR SALE,
i A. very Valuable Eft ate,
CALLED T IVI T-7 EN H A 'M, fituite ih the
townlhip of Upper Derby, andcountyof Delaware,
7 1-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
I new Western road: containing 230 acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadcrw,' 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of ths firft qiTality. There are
on the premises a good two story brick house, with 4 rofcms
1 on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
t of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, llabh s.
1 and other convenient buildings; a smoke-house and stone,
r spring-house ; two good apple orchards, !and one of peach
-1 -v. field* Are all in clo-vcr, cxcept those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
■ of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
£ venient for grazing..
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
cultivation ef the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is wry suitable for a. gentleman's
r country feat.
1 The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
. deceased, and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
[ Ofl* Q» so.l Surv'ving Executor.
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AMD WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(The late rcfidence of General Walter Stewart)
t ii' a LOT ef GROUND thereunto belonging,
, VV the weft fide ©f Third-street, near Union-street
i containing in front 32 feet, and in depth too feet, to an
alley leading into Union-street. The house is 32 feet front
■ and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
large, commodious, and completely finifhed; the tVo firft
, stories are each 13 feet high; there are 20 irrahogsny
. doot-s in the house ; a geometrical Oaircafe, witli mahoga
. «y rails and agpod flcy-light. The kitchen is in the cell
ar, which is fpaciou6 and convenient, and finifhed with an
. oven, stew-holes and pantries, a .servants' hall and large
. wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which i-jn
\ area in which there is a pump The yard is vanlted.
, Communicating with the sard building is a Beat three-story
• brick house, on the north fide of UniorWlreet, contaiu
, ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; the lower part of which
t is at present occupied as a compting-houfe, and the upper
part divided into w«ll-finilhed large chambers. This house
may at a small expense be converted into a convenient
dwelling : The street door is veryhandfome, and the front
and back have Venetian window-lhutters. Adjoining the
last house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are creeled
| bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewifevery good coach
houfc and stables finifhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
.the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
: in depth 011 the waft fide of said alley 53 feet. There are
good cellars unde, the whole of the buildings, and a wine
room over part of the stable, with a hay-loft over the re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
a l • , EDWARD BONSaLL & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Pear
~ , eo flreets.
6ih mcmih 84th, 1796.
Samuel Richardet,
D ESPECTFULLY informs tTie Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFER HOUSE in the
city of Philadelyhij;
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with thofc.of the principd'com
mercial citits of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments
will at all times be procured at the b;>r.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and Mrlieft
produihons of the Season.
, Large and small Farties, or single Gentlemen, may be
. accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers at
hours most convtnientto thcmfelves—a cold Collation is
, regularly kspt fortonveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
j at the bar. ( '- -
) , The L ° d g'"ig Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
> thc attention paid to cleanlmefs, and every other
5 requisite. 1
, S\muel Richardet will behappyto receive, and
j execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
> with L g" titude f". their favours, he pledges
, Welf that nothing on his part shall he wanting to pre
; s^nr nagew " hwhichMhasbeeniod " fia^ft r
Philadelphia, April 19. eo
, ~~
A E \v? d i (: V el i lar °j F° house and Cellar.
X X for,the Wheleialcaud Dry Good buiinefs. Ettquire
. at No. 129 Arch-flreet.
For Sale at the above place 9 ' (
500 Boxes Window Glass, 8 by ,o, ) by n, &c .
C^ ecfes in 'he best order, imported from
Holland, and entitled to drawback. Enquire of
Prter Bor S CT .
2aw3w
' To be disposed of,
■"THE time of » healthy NF.GKO WOMAN, who
A has between four and five years to ferva : She
can be recommended for fctr fobfiety and honesty. for
particulars at No. iji, Chefnut-fVrect.
, i „ wi f.
jp- -UmmWMH 1 1,| , || —-■ ■. -I"aC7?T.:rTJMBW»gM—
For the Gazette of lbs-Unitei>,Statbs.
Mr. Fenno,
> THE f llowing extrsA from a Pdem entitled
" The Gkoup," publilhed by T. Stephens, 13 replete
with truth and genuine wit. Its poetic .exi-e!!ence
has feldorn been equalled, perliaps never excelled, by
any votary of the muses in the United It cei
tainly merits a place in every ik wlpaper that is friend
ly 10 the " peace, liberty and fafety " oFt>ur country.
OLIVER.
" WHEN Britain, fmaVting for an Infant loft,
Pour'U WarVWack tempest round our trembling coafl,
le Deep, and m'ojje deep the gjrh'ring vapours croud,
l* And Death's red Standard glitier'd in the cloud.
This did they fee, and all the jac'bu*. crew,
Appall'd, to lurking holes of fafety flew,
While"Tburft the din of battle on :heir ear,
And in their coward.caverns flunk for. fear.
Th' brave did then in many a phalanx join,
And Jufiice gave new vigour to the line ;
' Then did our Chieftain wave his warrior arm,
" Hide in the whirlwind and dirsft the storm,"
* Thro' many .1 lUeplefs nigfct and labour'd day
Bring g'ory, happi-.efs, and peace away ;
, c YVhiic Siller virtues every fhpre,
i. Embofi'd the tributary wreath he Jvore,
' c And Heav'n, his foul approving, ftoop'd to hear
■_ The voice of Conscience sing lb sweetly there.
n But danger past, the aggravated rear,
1- Of. hurtling War, and Carnage, lieard no mote,
Why the)#could in fafety from their den>
And bid each dastard hair lie smooth again ; •
. View his meridian beam with fiutt'ring gaze,
Or (hut their orbs of da'rknels on the blaze.
Could, ever anxious for the fpcrls ef ftrife,
Blalpheme tbe"ir Country's dearest name, and life ;
e Wing the black fhaft, protrude their blades of lath,
. And fpitiheir froth, and venom found his path.
e ' Thrice brilliant fouls, to you each Gnome Ihilf raise
The ft out of triumph,"and the song of pra'.fe,
. And every Urchin i f the dark abode
e Shall scatter wrecks of havock in your road.
s The hour is haft'ning, when Gn equal feet
1 Exalted virtue, and low vice Ibad meet; ■ •
When Envy, Falilion, Indolence lhall rage,
' Iji one wild tempest, thro' the.troubled age :
" Then human dignky lhall ftieet it's doom,
' Devotion perish, jeaibn, worth, a tomb,
In the rude waltes of ignorance, lhall find,
And true equality lhall bless mankind.
1 So when the Kamfin of the desert flies
. 'Twixt ardent lands, and summer kindled Ikies,
The trav'ler meefs the arid death.
And, prefirate in the dust, rdign» his brea'h.
Then lhall 110 pedant Priest, with learned pride,
Point out the sacred volume for our gui e ;
No more the eivil law, or moral page,
1 he arm lhal! fetter, or the foul encage ;
. But pile on pile the file of Arts lhall raise,
And knowledge of all ages blaze.
As when the Gothic conflagration hurl'd,
Itsfmoky volumes round the sleeping rid :
The fiend of ruin, with demoniai yell,"
Flits round thte flame, diredhthe works of Hell,
With Iheets of sulphur wings the driving gale,
And lhakes definition from his dragon tail.
l Vet, not as then : the once extinguilh'd ray
Shall ne'er relufcitate another day ;
. Here, science, thy last llage of being lies !
Ko other Phoenix, from thy dust, lhall rife ;
. And no fad vellige IhalKremam to tell,
. The temple's balis, where thou lpv'dft to dwell.
■ ' 1
ROYAL ANECtiOTE. |
During the Royal residence at Cheltenham, it i
was remarked, by the keepers of the fevetal turn
| pike gates, that his majesty in his Ihort cxcurfions* '
paid no toll. The right of his Majesty to pass toll- '
, free happening to become the fubjfft of converia
: hon in «a large company at Worcester, Robert
t bleth, an honest blunt fellow, ? nd keepei of Bar
i ba " S ate > urged that his majesty, in his '
• P nvate "pac.ty, was liable to the toll, declaring, at '
, the lame time, that though he> refpeded his fove
-1 vcifr ever he came to Barban gate, he Ihould not
: pass till the toll was paid.
A short lime after, honest Robert's resolution 1
was P ut to the tell, for his majesty, in his route to ]
Worcester, came to Barbau gate. On the ar.ival
r of the firft horseman that preceded the royal car
riage, Robert having prcvioufiy locked the gate, 1
flood with the keys in his hand, and demanded the 1
toll. I he: Equerry, man accent of perturbed I
patience, said, "Open the gate iaftantly, for his '
mffjefty is at hand."— 1 " I know that," replied 1
Rooert, out his majesty is not at the head of an ar-' !
P.y, and mud pay the toll. The servant remon- 1
trated with threats and indignation, but Robert
was not to be frightened; he heard him_«uh- pla
c.d mdifferen,; nil hi, m.jefty's carriage came" 1
fight. Lhe attendant was now reduced to tl.e ne
r ceffity of naving resource to polite entieaty, af
> funng Robert, that the person who followed his
« ofthi/ T ria>?e T ld Pay tke re S ular
On his aflurance the gate was opened, and the j
whole cavalcade, accompanied by an immense 1
t «owd ; passed, but Robert received not one penny. '
h °wever, was aware that his majesty would 1
: return, to Cheltenham the following and must -
pass the gate agam. Accordingly haviW heard (
j that the royal equipage was approaclu.ig, he lock- >
ed the gate, and took kis station as before. The 1
' fame M«rry preceded the carriage, and began a- 1
• f»» 2«™»ttr«e, butho.eftSlihfwore S. 1
: Ts?""' «
Callcd to an account for his ccndflA. 1
from the (New-York)' liliNSßp-jt. f
na is": r -
" • ?-■> '
■h« I, a f, ThTd PI " Ei ° i! "" '
that country as «p|] • ' I' dtrsoprats in
quente of ienorant nllll , J^ enn g confe- v
■ S-a - ;
perience r , n K" ,s - Despising ex- j t
of eoad'fenk thTf'w! themnxims j t
* g lenk > thf ? ,he of theje
~ legiflaturc into two branches. That, fays Drr
tiie head-os the plot lately found out'and p„. , v,'
c>l in out gazet'rs, that is E ;!iih, nothing n > • -
'is wanting to make it a mo ,nrhy, but a k
This Teems id have been the spark that kindled ]
" te wild pafli-ms to plot the mo i horrid crimes
ce burn, rob and kill. The French Caialine wa»
)y like the accent.
r- Mark it wfcll, wife men of America, our der,
4- crats hold the very fame principles. When tl ■■
y- speak out, they condemn the senate as useless a .
arillocratical. When they are afraid to fp ,!
their aftioss explain their views From the very
firft, they have abused the senate in every o- azett
' and very laiely they did their titmoft to m a \ e '
body and the president nothing and the house of it',
prefentatives every thing. %
Drouet eftabhfhed an i/ifurredionalcommittee; in
like manner, our democrats have their infurre&ioii.!
clubs. The French plotters pretended to be exctw
foe patriots. This is the very character afl'umed
by the prlrty in Bache's, Grecnleaf's, and Adams's
anarchical papers—who forgets the changes thev
' have rung upon the words patriotic party, I alandi
in government. The have an early claim to then,
tie of exclusive patriots—let them wear it with ag
much honor as Drouet and his accompliccs and with
rather more fatety to their precious necks.
Simple democracy is certainly going into disgrace
in France and America. Let it go. A fingieaf
fembly may begin lioneft, but if it has the whole
power, it will soon become not only rash and wick
cd, but will lose its own liberty and independence,
and become the invader of the rights and property
of the citizens. These are old truths i£ this coun.
try, our government has ever proeee4ed on tne true
republican principles of a divided legislature. Re.
publicanifm equally tequilas a ftngle, responsible
and'energetic executive. Yet very lately one of
the democratic gazettes extolled the French confti.
tution for having Jive. This betrays no little ralh.
ness and ignorance of the faience of politics. For
at this time of day, who that knows any thing jj •
ignorant that where the executive power is too .
weak there can Jul .no ftrettgth -tV >W-4-w3.
means of for the public liberty ?
Let us remain at peace, and if our infurteCtion
al committees, our exclusive patriots, the tertorifts
who would have driven the constituted authorises
into a rejection of the treaty, if they should not
be able to erect the guillotine upon the ruins of law
and liberty we may not only continue ( to prefer
our heads, but to be <«s wc now are, the happidt
people on the globe.
BOSTON, August 27.
.INTERNAL IMPROVEMENTS.
We are happy to learn that a few d*vs since, the
water had a tree course through Mr! Blodget's 1
Canal, at the F ? lls in New-Harapfhin?. He hai
perfeyeied nearly three years in this/ laudable un
dertakmg.
From Lanfmgltirgl), dugu/l rg.
A few years ago, there was but one .S:aae be
tween this town and Albany ; it was cilabliihed and
maintainedatgreat expence.and for confidence tune
had little encouragement. At this day, this mode of
travelling, has increased, that twenty"Wages dai
ly pass and repafs between the neighboring towns
of Lanfingburgh, Troy, Waterford and Albany,
am) the av«Ta g ~ numbe, -of-paffejigcrs exceed i
■ This weihiiik BO iiidiffereht proof of the growth "
and profpenty of this fiourilhing part'pf United
ana Happy America.
UPPER -CANADA.
; Col. Simcoe, governor of Upper Canada, hasfai!.
, ed for Englaua Ihe hon. Pc;er Ruilil, Esq. fuc. '
ceeds in the government of that province.
LONDON, July 7.
Last Saturday two Ruffian ships of fail
-1 M k°T , r ,nK ' Uth ' l " order to '"einforce aLjral
( Macbnde s squadron.
| Singularities -.The Parish of Drarne, county ,f
Elgin, in biotland, contains 1040 inhabitants, and
. has a seaport. There is no lawyer, writer, altor.
. »ey, phyhcan, fargeon, apothecary, negro, Jew,
gypfey, Engl.fhman, Irishman, foreigner of any
, defer,ption, nor family of any te li g iou S feft or de-
I nomination, except the eltablifhed church ; there
. has not been an inftanceof filicide during the thir
ty-twro years of the present minister's incumbency,
nor has any native of the parifi, been hanged or
. baiullied in the memory-a^nKm^
' ' ['Mrir 0 ™!? aboUt ten after eight
0 clock, W,lham Henry Wefton pnd John Roberts,
a,.as Cohii Ricqulirt; convicted of forgery, vers
1 Tu\' ed ,°PP° lit .V h e debtors door of Newgate.
A little be ore e.ght o'clock they came on .hefof-'
. so.a, attended by a clergyman ; and Wcfion, either
from a wifli to conceal his countenance, or from
the agitation of his mind, kept /handkerchief
dole to his face, from the time of his coming out
of the gaol till the cap was drawn over hls-eyes, &
died with it in his hand ;he appeared to pay very .
httte attention to any thing around him, and when
his fellow fufferer offered to shake hands with him,
he teemed to rtfufe, by turning his back ; he wa*
very handsomely dressed in black, with his hair
powdered. Roberts appeared to meet his fate with
great fortitude. On IWday night, Wefton was
inculged in his cell with ™e company of a Diviqe
and five friends, who remained with him till heaf.
cended the fcaflold. The concourse of people wat
immense. Each of their bodies were afterwards de
livered to their friends.
It is reported that the mother of Wefton died a
few days ago, in Ireland, of a broken heart.
Kingston, (jam. )juiy 28.
It was luppofed that after trai,qui!ifiiig St. Vin»
St. Lucia and Grenada, general Sir R. Aber
crombie would-withdraw the troops to iiarbadoe*
till the hurricane months were pat}, and then would
an OB Guadaloupe.
ihe crews of the American vefiels in this har
oour, whether composed of British seamen cr not,
wt cannot fay, have lately made it a p#;&icc to leave
their vefiels: a few n:ght6 ago an Ameuean
j"queli)Jt'her whole crew, they carried vrith theas
1 ,e boat, and vrheii left her they rtia an iron
| crow through h k -,/fy • ,
j PARIS, June 11.
■Four Journals continue here tdpreich/ilp Ja:obiiiifm
and Revolutionary meai'urcs, viz. Louvet's Sentinelle,
L'Ami des Lcix of the ex-monk Poultier, the Journal
des Hommcs Libres, and the Journal de 9 Patriotes de
1789. Notwichflanding the e*.ertio:is which are made
to spread these Journals, they earinot muster ia the
whole 4000fubfcribers,a convincing proof of the small
number of their partizans in France. The moderate
Journals on the contrary, to the number of or 20,
have upwards of 1; 0,000 lubferibers.
Lettersfrorft Ayde in Languedoclc state, that the Spa
nish Consul in that place has been 'afTafftiated by four
Terrorists.
In the fitting of the Council of Five Hundred on
the nd, it was announced by the Directory, that in 5 ;
Departments, 46,310 offers have been made to purchase
national efiates, and that the lum total of those offers a
mounted to 79 millions.
In the fitting of the Council of Elders of thcajd, the
- quetlion was difr.uffed, " Whether a verbal process
fliouldbe drawn up concerning the secret fittings, which
are held on thefubjedlof Drouet," which was decided
in the negative. Drouet is to appear this day, the 15th
to make his defence.
PORTSMOUTH, July 6.
Yeflerday .the Prince, of 98 guns, was cut ia his
Majesty's Dock-yard in order to be lengthened ;
and this day the parts were drawn asunder 17.feet
- 6 inches, the intended length —This is the firft
(hip of her magnitude ever known to be cut to be
lengthened.
1 in. 1 11 1 1 11
- Philadelphia,
» '
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER j, 1796.
Married, On Saturdiy evening last, by th»Rev. Dr.
Metier, Capt. Francis Atkinson Hunt to the amiable
1 Mils Sarah Dunton, daughter of Capt. William Diinton
of this city.
The United States frigate, building in Southwark,
under the direction of Mr. Humphreys, is -n fueh a
Hate of forwardnefs, that it* is probable she might be
launched befors the 'ensuing winter, ihpuld occasion re-
It is with pleasure weobferve that the ufeof Oxen
in lies of Horses, for the common purposes of farming
and for draught, is daily becoming more prevalent
throughout the state.
One drover lately brought down near three hundred
head of cattle in one drove to the vicinity«of this city,
from the weiterh parts of the state, which he very focn
tliffiofed of—A large proportion of these were fleers.
The advantage which the use of Ojten gives over
Horses, consists in the following particulars ;
They require less feed,
Will perforin more labour,
Make better manure,
And, When they have become so old as to be unfit
fotj fcrvice, will fell for (laughter, and bring a confi
scable proportion of their original cost • A Horse,
on the contrary, when worn out, is good for nothing.
The rontinuance of the very high prices of all kinds
of flour atxi bread, is one of those extraordinary things
f.r which it is difficult to acconnt or afiigrvany rational I
cause. The spirit of {peculation in grain has raged to
such a dpgree, that there is no doubt we should have been
fcrcoght to a state of starvation had not the couiltry been
inexhauftiblc. h has been said, that there is. at this mo
ment, notwithstanding the immense quantities of which
the cJnited States have Ken drained, a fufHciency of grain
of the fcift yeta-V crop tofcrve for the ordinary consump
tion 'tijl the ensuing hnrve/t, witliouf' aid fra;n the
crop of the preient year, which is well kiiown to have
been abundant. This being the cafe, is it not very unac
countable, on any just principles, that the article of grain
{hculd be higher here than in France, Spain, and Great-
Britain, to which countries we have been for twelve
jnejuhs past pouring in such enormous supplies ?
BY THIS DAY's MAID.
BOSTON Augufl 30.
ARMED NEUTRALITY
A junction of the Swedish and Danish Grand
ftetits, took place early in June, and they immedi
ately proceeded on a cruize into the North Seas, to
protest their commerce from being diflurbed by
the cruizers of the warrinjj nations. These power
ful neutrals have been almost as frequeistly damaged
by the tyrants of the o«ean as America. Our na
vigation is now tolerably secure, thanks to negocia-.
tion—and they are obliged to equip a large and
expensive fleet, sot the prote&ion of their's.
This remark, however, is only good as it rcfpeifts
English cruizers. The French indeed,. have com
menced a partial boftility on our vessels : but this
it more to be attributed to the advice of some of
our " Patriots," than any bad disposition
of the French.
By a brig which arrived on Sunday, in 64 day?
from Gibraltar, we lparn, that the Emperor of Mo
rocco, has issued orders for the capture of all ves
sels bound to the ports possessed by hi? revolted
brother, under the appellation of enemy's ports.
Under these order?, a Dane, a Swede, a Portu
guese, and an American, have been taken. The*.,'
latter was tl\e brig Emmeline, Prentifs, of Boston :
(lie w'as bound to Safea. The formei vessels were,
cleared, in coHfideration of their failing previous to :
the general promulgation of the orders. The A
merican Consul at Qibraltar, was trying to get the
Emmeline released, and 1 it wSs would fuc- 1
ceed. j
FROM SURINAM.
Capt. Stover, from Surinam, "which he left
Aug. 2, infotms, that two English frigates lay at
ihe giouth of the river, in fight of the Dutch
(qriadron, at New-Fort. The Dutch Admiral ;
brought <Ajt with him Danish regiflers, for the
.♦nerchzntmen at that place ; the English knowing
this, capture all veffelg,under Daniffr colours ; yet 1
norwithftanding the certainty of being taken by 1
the frigates below, these merchantmen are sent out <
daily, captured, and sent to Demarara. Five fai} ]
weTe captured one day in fight of a Dutch frigate
which lay down the river. The admiral is fiifpc£l
ed of connivance at these captures. ( Tbe English
are expc&ed to take pofi'tfiion of-Stirir.am, arid it -
is .thought little lefiftance would he made. Capt. 1
Stover believes neither British king's ships, nor Bef 1
oiudian privateers, molest Ameiican vtflels at pre
sent ; as he was very nsar such vefftis on his home- 1
wsrd .bound passage. Markets were exceeding low-
Beef 10 dolle. Pork 14. Flour 10, &c.
( From GUADAioOprir
We hear, that in ccnfequence of t.he rnifconfiucl
' of an Atnericaircapta.n, who after engaging -his whole
\ e car g° t° government, fold it to individuals, the g°'
verument there has decljredj that no veflels shall he
ie permitted to an entry at any other ports but those
U of Bay Mahou, Point Petre r and Port .Louis. And
ie as soon as they-arrive at either of these places, a
3, guard is put on board that continues with the vcffc-1
till all the provisions are out of her.
Capt. Stover, about 12 days before his arrival,
n fp°ke brig , Plumer, from New-York, Ju'ft to
2 the southward of Bermuda. Left a number of
l"e American vcffels at Surinam, of which we suppose
1- the following a corredl lift.
Henry, Ho!den, of Providence, Captain Sick ;
brigs, Hannah, Brown, Providence; Rebecca,
Feijner, do. jofeph, Francis, do. Three Friends,
d Indieot, Saicai ; ,fcbooner Rover, Joh ifon, Bos
h ton, Seaflower, Gardiner, do. Fame, Tilden, of
do. Sloops, General Greene, Borden, Charleflon ;
Smithfield, B. Alger, Providence. Sailed in
company with the following vessels, ■•sffter being
is embargoed two months, viz. Ships, General Wash
; ington, Dexter, Providence ; Maria, B. At-nold,
t do. Richmond, Newel, Philadelphia ; John, Wliit
fl well, Amsterdam ; brigs, Paramarabo, Greene,
e Baltimore ; Sally, Lord, Boston; Ci:icinrtatus,
, Philadelphia ; Elizabeth, Cisats, Titeoipb,
1 Newbuiyport ; Lydia, E. Shelby, Salem ; Sea
Nymph, , Amsterdam ; Couriet, J. Spen
cer. Charleflon, Si C. Nsncy, Strong, Amiler
dam; fclrooner Edward, Penrife, Baltia.ore ; fljop
Friendship, Brjggs, Providencc—and a number of
other veflels ; some bound for a fliarket, and others
for different parts of America, with about 20 fail
of Danes and Swedes.
n On Saturday last failed from this port, on a voy
age to the north-weft coast of this co'ntinent, the
brig Hazard,. Capt. Swift ; and this day, weather
permitting, .will fail the (hip India Packet, Capt.
a Cafwell. Both these vessels, as well as all employ
e ed in the fame trade, are elegant specimens of A
meriean naval a.-chitc<S.ure—and are equipped in a
style, equal, if not superior, to the much praised
" Packet of Great-Britain. There are now al-
molt as many ships employed in these enterpriling
voyages from this port, as a few yeaw fmce a£hial
d ly belonged to it, however different their route of
'» trade.
" August 31.
Yeflerday the Honorable Supreme Judicial Court
was opened in this town. The Honorable Chief
Jullice gave a short, though compreheufive charge
to the Grand Jury, in which lie noticed the pieftnt
prosperous and happy situation of our country,
t After which the throne of grace was addressed by
" the Rev. Dr. Thatcher,
' The unfortunate event of the Tobbery of the
Nantucket bank, will, we learn, come before the
s Grand Jury this term. A great number of the
® inhabitants of Nantucket, are in town, as evi
dences. It must be the with of every patriot, that
1 the be such as (hall restore confidence and
! good ueighbouuhood to an island, which promised
- before this event, the attainment of the hightft
1 prosperity.
1 Yeflerday the British frigate La Raifcsh, arrived
s in Nantafket road. .It i# said, she h.is had a brvjh
• at sea.
NEW-YORK, September
Air. McLean—Pit aft to publtlh the following in
your Gazette.
Having seen an anonymous piece in yesterday's
Ar,jus, entitled " Bite the Biter,,' wherein it was
said, that the ftiip Eliza had been a prize to the.
Thetis, British frigate, and that since the accideot
oflofmg her spars, she had he'en captured by about
a dozen iMnkces! In' answer to which, 1 think
] proper to state the following facts : Being board
. Ed within three miles of Henry, by the above
, frigate, and a prize mailer put on board,' who not
f knowing well how to proceed, he, by some. fatality
. or other, got within Sandy Hook j where, meeting
j with no opposition from the crew, I took poffeflion
ot my own ihip, and brought her fafe to'this port {
in the performance of which, no violence was used
j by any pevfon on board.
G. G. HUSSEY.
NAVAL ENGAGEMENT.
3 ExtraS from the leg-book of the brig Tothil/, Captain
f Lovell, arrived yejlerday from St. Croix. . '!
1 On Satttrdaylaft, the Chesapeake bearing about 1
W. N. W. saw three (hips of war standing to the
r welhvard, one of which altered her course about
- ii, A. M. and flood to the northward, the other ;
two continued vfoeir course to the westward, and ;
I passed us about a mile ahead, without sheWing co
. lours, or offering to speak us; we soon after saw
■ a signal made by one ot the two, and the ftiip to
the northward immediately tacked .and flood 'after
: them ; we continued our course to the yonhw^rd.
, Next morning, early, we discovered three other
> ships bearing-about weft from us, dfflance about 3
- leagues, Cape-Charles then bearing about well, di
: fiance about twelve leagues, tlje ships shaped their
■ course for us, but on some guns firing, which we
took to be near the Chesapeake, two of the largest
ships tacked and flood for that place—the other,
which appealed to be a sloop of war, continued
her course for us, but about 9, 011 a signal made
1 from the other /hips, she tacked and flood for them,
1 an(l about l J o'clock they were out of fight, at 12
we discovered them standing to the east ward under
I full fail, and soon discovered four other ftiips in
chafe, which continued until about 5 o'clock, when
one of the ships coming up with one of the ships
t ihafed, an atlion commenced, which lasted but a
1 few minittes, and as Coon as the fmoak cleared away,
3 so as to difenver the ships, we miffed one of them,
- which we are persuaded must have funk, another
1 ship then coming up with the one which had been
t engaged, they continued their course after the
. other two, which at dark appeared tp be about a
league diitance.
We are furthar informed, that the Hope, Capt.
- Cook, saw, on the day following, Monday, fix
,■ frigates in company, off the Capes, standing to the
eafhvatd; but thsy shewed nocolouts
f".
Extract of a letter from an officer oThigh rank, at the
Core of Coik, to another in Dublin, dated June 45.
" Our fleet lately brought in large veflcl under
Swedish colours, but iufpe&ed to be Dutch property".
,no papers were found on board to condemn her; the
' prize wis doubtful, and was lent to England to be
" tried. * ;
1 " Yeflerday a fifherman, off the harhor, hooked a
. jar corked, to which a hatchet was tied for the purpose 1
| : of linking it.- On opening the vessel it was found full ,
of papers, which Were brought to Admii*al Kingfmill. ,
't'iicy were the very papers of this ship, proving herto
be Dutch, and the property French ;,and naming, feve- '
1 ral American (hips fitted out in the fame way." 1
> [Extraordinary as this circumstance appears, we ■
f pledge onrfelves for it's veracity.] ]
Halifax papers received yeftrrday by the armed fchoo- ■
r.er Charles and Mary, Capt. A. Kidllon, in 11 days
• from Halifax, contain.the Following.
> HALIFAX, Aiigiiit 13. ,'
We arc sorry to hear that his majesty's snip Active, 1
having on board Lord DoYcitefter and family, is wrcck
r ed on the i'iand of Anticofti, The paflengers, officers
and crew, were fortunately saved. ,
I Yesterday arrived the Shark (loop of war, in tj days
1 from Newfoundland- A ihip from. England fell in
with a fleet of five French frigates cru'ifing off the
■ Banks ; but being provided with a fi&itioti! let of pa
, pers, had the good fortune to pyfuade the frenchmen,
{he was American property —and thus eft.aj.ed, aini
arrived a few days after at Newfoundland.
Augvr; no.
Monday failed for Englaad his majefly's ship Huf
' far, Capt. Rowley, having under her convoy, the Tre
lawny mast Ihip, and two transports.—-In her went '
pafleugers—Major Vefey, Mr. and Mrs. Belcher of !
. chjs town, &c. ■
, Same day arrived his majesty's snow Earl of Moira, '
Capt. Fawi'on. In her have arrivsd his exccllency the 1
right hon. Guy Lord Dorchester and family.
'fuefday arrived his majesty's ship Pearl,' Capt. Bal- 1
lard, with the crew of the Active frigate, lately J
tfd on the island of Anticifti.
Arrived also, his majesty's ships La Raifon, Captain >
: Beresford, and L'Efperance, Captain Rofc.
La Raifon has brought in with her the ship Harmo* '
ny, from Philadelphia, bound to Amsterdam, and the '
brig Polly, from Havre, bound tojjoltoli.
Wednesday arrived the Sloop Portland Packet, in '
4 days bpm BofUm—in which cime paflengers ; the
Hon. David Howell, Esq. Commiffiener, and the Hon. 1
James Sullivan, Esq. Agent on the part of the '
States, for afcertaimng the St. Croix boundary, Mr. 1
Samuel VVehber, Profeflor of Astronomy at Cam- ]
bridge, Mr. John Sullivan, son of the Hon. J.Sullivan,
Mr. Smith, Merchant, of Newbury-port, and Mr. San- '
ger, Merchant of Balthnore. .
Thursday failed his Majesty's armed fnjw Earl Moi
ra. Capt. Faivfan for Lunenbyrgh.—His excellency
fir John and Lady Wentworthr—J. M. F. Bulkley, esq. 1
aiid'capt. ThcfTiger, of the royal Nova-Scotia regi- .
meat, have gone in the fntiw, on a pleasurable excur-
Con to' that part of the province.
Thur-fday arrived the American ship Argo ; sent in
by La Raifon frigate ; ai)d on the fame day, La Rai
ftn failed on a cruize.
Capt. Ward, of the brig Julia, arrived yesterday, in
a&.days front Demarara—on the. 9th August came un
der the lee of Martinique,' and saw a number of Bri
tish cruisers. On the nth, put in at Nevis, to fill up
water. While Capt. W. was there, the sloop Com
merce of New-York, Capti Swan, from Martinique,
arrive,d, the captain of which informed, that 4o Ame
rican and 4 Danish vsflels from Surinam and Demara
ra, were carried into Martinique -by the firitifh crui
sers, and he supposed they would be condemned.
Capt. Ward, spoke on the 41ft August, a brig from
Baltimore, bound to Hifpaniola, Captain Bunker, u
days i n!, lit 4, long. 67, 00.
Mr, j. C. Ten iiofch, came pajfenger in the Julia.
SALEM, August 23.
Eroffssor EBELING,
Of Hamburg, has sent into America the third
volume of his American Geography, of which we
gave'a fpccimeh lately under tffe article, Salem.
This i y elligent and ingenious inquirer into the
1 history of our country has considered his work as
the continuation of Bufching, whose work com
prehending the Geography of Eurppe is in eleven
volumes in the last edition, ProfefFdr Ebeling gives
in his firft volume New-Hampshire and Maflachu
fetts ; in Uia fecotrd, Rhcide-Ifland, Connecticut,
Vermont, and New-York ; in the third, he conti
nues New-York and New-Jtrfey. He la» been
careful to collect the bell authorities, and has had
great success. A French tranllation is bow print
ing at Paris, and we hope that an American transla
tion will not be forgotten. The plan of Bufehing
has not been fallowed by any works we now have,
and it so well unites the statistical accounts with
the geography and local divifiohs, including all the
works known either as " States of Countries, Geo- "
'■ '■ graphies, or Gazetteers," as to demand a prefer
ence. The edition of Paris will have several cor
: ' reftions, and a new German edition is expedted.
: This geographer, with profeflor Hegewifch of Kiel,
; has begun an American Magazine ; of which the
firlt number hat reached us, which \frill be a re
pository of our most ufeful statistical and commer
cial information. There fs also publishing, under
his infpedUon, a colledtion of Maps of Amcriea, by
> the Geographer of Berlin.
For the Salem Gazette.
Mr. Carlton,
Please to publish the following translation from the
-firft mimber of the American Magazioe, publtfh
tdl at Hamburg by PrefefTors Hegewifch, and
Ebeling, 1795 —it being intended as a just Ki
buieof refpefl to our countryman.
" Diflertation on the character, death and refur
t'e&ion of Jesus CHrilt, and the evidences of his
golpel, with remarks on some sentiments ad
vanced in a book, entitled, The Age of Rea
son. '
» (
By J. Belknap. Bvo. Boston, <4<spage»-
" PAINE'i vork Toon reached North-America,
1 where it was repiinted, and much noticed, not on
-1 ly from the high character of his works in that
1 coiißtry, but on account of the bold manner in
1 which he employs ridicule in opposition to the doc
. nine of faith. Prieflley and others have written
agaiiift him. The present work is from one of the
1 most worthy divines of the United States. This
: learned and well written diflertation, as well as his
' excellent " History of New-Hamp(hire," and his
" America* Biography," which by its continuance
would furnifh the best materials for <he history of
that part of the globe, difcovcisrefearch, judgment
and lalle. It shews him with honor in his proses-
Hon, in his evidences clear, and animated, without
'? „• W" J
any angry espreffions against those who differ fratjj
him in opinion, and it employs the truth* oI Clm*
ftianity to support the hopes of virtue.
The-arguments, tho against Paine, are compie*
henlive, and are adapted to a found underltanding,
and to the hearts of sober, tho' Unlearned met*, it
is also a merit in this work, that the great object is
regarded, with great advantage to the writer, with
out the rude reflections which the person against
whom he writes, without the least regard to deceit*
cy employs. The spirit of the whole work exalt*
the author above common theological difputa .ts.—
His oppofercan scarcely be named above a poGtive
man, writing for popularity. The wonders whiclt
Piine's writings may perform in America must ever
be invifibie. Allen Another American, -and ,
woAderful that), with his oRACt-F.s of rhasov,
which had uo realoa in them, juit appealed and va*
uilhed.
CHARLESTON. (S.C.) Augtift Ig.
Extract of a letter from i gentleman in Nail'au, New
Providence, to his friend in ttiis city, dated July 14,
" AboHt ten days agii there was a fleet of merchant
men failed fn m this port for London, convoyed by
the Njrcifliib of thirty-four' guns, and Swallow of
twenty-eight ; the firlt that ever was entirely loaded
with the produce of thele liknds, confining chiefly of
cotton, eftimattd to be worth 90,000!. Previoun to
their failing, the merchants gave a molt elegant enter
tainment to the officers of the navy, &c. On Mon
day afternoon July 3d, an account wai brought to town
by a negro who efuaped in an open boat, that fix ves
sels carrying from fifty to one hundred and twenty
tons, which failed on Friday from Nallku harbor tor
the out illands, to bring cotton, were all taken by a
French priva;eer. ■ The inhabitants immediately beat
up volunteers, it was then four o'clock : by nine the
fame evening they manned and victualled a foow, two
galleys, arid a Tchooner, and went off in que't ef the
enemy to retake the vcffels. On Monday the schoo
ner fell in with a cart«l sloop from Cape iNiehola Mole,
who from her appearance fht judged hoftilely inclined ;
boarded and brought her in. She put to lea in
quest of the veflels, when, afterfhree days fail, fell ia
with the privateer; the captain perceiving hecouMnot
escape, quitted the privateer, and got on board the fa li
cit sailer of those vefiels he had captured, taking abcftlt
two thousand dollars with hint. The fchOouer captu
red the privateer, and recaptured five of the lix fail,
Tnere were eighteen prifoiiers on board the privateer
when taken. I'he'Swallow gave chace to tne qther
Vcllel, which it was supposed Ihe would soon come up
wi h. The ialvage on the re-captura of those vefleis,
together with the privateer, will be above noo pounds
to the adventurers."
GAZETTE OF THE ViVIfXD STATSS MARINE LIST.
PHILADELPHIA, September
ARRIVED.
Brig Schylkill, Irwin, Jamaica 24
Cruger, Tinker, St. Bartholomews 17
Schor. Andrew, Montayne, do. 2?
Delight, Wiley, Richmond 9
Lively, Mease, Cape-Francois 1 2
Sloop Nancy, Small, Leogan 18
Planter, Hammond, Nsw-Pr<jvidence 9
. Rainbow, Gannon, Newbern 6
CLEARED.
Ship Molly, Frost, London
Two Sifter*, Henry, Hifpauiola
Jolepfe, Stone, P,tland
Brig Ariel, Gardner, St. Crok
Neptune, Tower, Boston
Snow Hope, Rindge, Portland
Schr. Three Josephs, Weft, Martinique
Potly, Bonticue, ' St. Thomas
P-yne, Mann, Edenton
: Sloop Polly and Nancy, Mackie, Newbern
Saily, Stevens, New-Bedford
Providence, Pritchard, Frederickslbnrgh
Rambler, While, Currituck
1 Sloop Eliza, Nichjslfon,' St. Vincent*.
Capt. Irwin, on the 14th August, in lat. 23,
28, fell in with two French 50 gun (hips, and or.e
of 40 guns, "under command of Capt. Barne-,' 5
and was boarded by an officer from the 40 gun
ship, who informed Capt. I. that their force con.
lifted of 9 fail of cruising vessels on that ttation.
Shortly after he fell in vyith another 50 gun French
(hip with her tender ; but did not speak them.
Arrived at the Fort.
Abigail, Pinkham, St. Domingo
Arrived at New York—September 9.
D ays. r
Brig Nancy, Seton, Jamaica, 29
Jul lay , Dtmarara, —
Schr. Argus, Allen, Anx-Cayes, 17
Hope, Cook, Martinique, 22
Charles and Mary, Kidfton, Halitax, 11
The snow Amelia, Capt. Elmflie, from the W.
Indies, is Cafe arrived at Halifax, Nova-Scotia,
loaded with cotton and sugar.
i _ ■
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the /hop of WILLIAM CO BRETT.> * -
oppojite Cbr'tjl Church,
A Print, entitled
The SWAN and the WICK,
Or the Treaty of Amity and Commerce fcornfully
reje&ed.
May be bad at the fame place-** «
PORCUPINE, a print.
The BLUE SHOP, a pamphlet.
A PILL FOR P. P. do.
The IMPOSTOR,DETECTED, do.
Sept. J 3
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including th« Northern Liberties and diftridt of
-Southwark ,
Publilhcd, and fold by
benjamin davies,
; No. 68, High fireet,
, (Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is a 6 inches square, and has been en
p graved by one of the Jirlt artists in the-city, from a late
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
: phlet with each plan, giving " feme account of the
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
I July >9 • tufSJtfINFORMATION £ iJ ,
IS given daily of the drawing of tbe WASHINGTON , e 0
LOTTERY, at the Office j™ a
No, 147 Chefnut Jlreet, f ai j
between Fourth and Fifth ftreots. Also, where Tickets. ce >p
v may yet be had. Sept. I. eo jf ar
.£5" The Sixteenth and Seventeenth Days drawing is p un
a "'ved. firft
City cf Washington. a; t d
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, Mo.II, ™ c
fOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & 7
dw?lling-houfe, ) cash 30,000, ire > ■5 0 ' 000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 40,000 Scb
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000 c
1 ditto 10,000 &, cash 10,000 20,000 c
I ditto 5,000 &cash 5,000 10,00 a ' t
1 ditto s,ocw & cash 5,000 xo,ooo
1 cash prize of 10,000
2 do. 5,000 each, are - 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - . - 10,000
20 do. 560 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
200 do. 50 10,000 —
400 do. 25 - - 10,000
1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
15,000 do. 10 • - 150,000
115,739 Prizes.
33*261 Blanks.
50,000 Ticket?, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets,the prizeof 40,000 dollars will be the iast drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the Cast but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days atcer drawing, will be received so
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of tbe pri
vate buildings to be ereited in the City of
Two beautiful designs are already felecled for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complew, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fchemc for the Hotel Lottery.
A nott deduSion of five per cent, will be: made to defray
the necessary ejepenfes of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for theNatisnal
University, to be erected within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finilhad ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after th«
drawing is doled, are to be considered as given towards
the funi for the Uiiiverfity ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Dire&ors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
' The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiflioners assisted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num
bar of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jects may conti»ue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the difterent parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe 1 , where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are allured that the
drawing will speedily commen»e, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafc disposal of
the tickets, has rendered the lfcort suspension indifpenlable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; o
James W> ft & Co. Baltimore ; of Feter Gilman, Soften
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. eo
To b« fold by public sale,
ON Wednesday, the 7th day of September next, on
the premises in Mount-Holly,Burlington county, by
th« Subfcriher,
The DweUing-Hott/e and Lot
Whereon it fta .ds, having been in pari occupied as a ftote
for several years past, and in a good stand for business, to
g«her with the store-house, fteble and buildings thereon
created, having two large cellars ui.der them. Also, the
shop goods and household furniture. A clear title will be
given to the purchaser oft payment of the money or fuf
ficient bond therefor, and poffeflion of the premises will
be given in the said month of September.
The sale is to continue 'till the whole is disposed of.
Mount Holly having become'rh« Comity Town, makes
this property more valuable than heretofore. The condi
tions will be made known at the time and place of sale, by
PETER SHIRAS.
N. B. All persons indebted to thefubfcriber,are request
ed to difchargc the fame immediately, as he intends soon
to remove out of this state. Any ptrfon having a just de
mand again ft the fubferiber, it requclled to produce thi
fame for settlement.
Mount Holly, August 16, 1796.
Lands of j:he United States
Treasury Department, duguji 3^1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN pursuance of an ail of Congrels, palled on the 18th
day of May, 1796, entitled " An ail providing" for
the sale of the lands of the United States, in tbe Territo
ry north weft of the rivSr Ohio, ar.d above the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the fcSionsor lots of land descri
bed in the annexed schedule, lying in the seven ranges of
townships, which were lurveyed in pursuance of an ordi
nance of Congrcfs, palled on the twentieth day of May,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five,
will be exposed for sale at Public vendue, in the town ol
Pitt (burgh in Pennfvlvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
Odlober next, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the firft day ofDecember enfuing,unlefsthe said lots shall
be sooner fold, in the manner, and on the terms and con
\ ditions herein after mentioned, to wit:
ift. The said fe&ions or lots shall be fold under the di
re&ion of the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter
ritory, and such person as the President of fhc United
States may specially appoint for that purpose.
2d. The said feilions or lots shall be fold to the highest
bidder,but no sale can be made for less than two dollars
per acre of th« quantity of land contained in such lot or
leSioE. 1
3, The highest bidder as before mentioned, mufi depo
sit at the time ef sale, one twentieth part of the purchase
money., in the hands of such person as the President of the
United States fha!l«»ppoint to attend the files for that pur
pose, which will be forfeited, If a moiety of the film bid,
including the said twentieth part, Stall not be paid within
thirtydays from the time of sale.
4th. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchase money
in the manner before mentioned, the purchaser wi:l bf
entitled to one year s credit for the remaining moiety ;
an«t shall receive from the Governor or Secretary of the
Western Territory, ana the perfoa who (hall be appointed
by the President of the United States, to dirc<s the fates,a
certificate deferibmg the lot or f:dtwn purehafed, and dc
daiingthelum paid on account, the balance remaining <llic,
the time when such balance becomes payable, and that
the whole bad therein mentioned, will be forfeited, if the
t
said balance is not then vaid ; but if the laid baUr.ee !V.a'.j
. be duly djfchargediby paying the fame to the 1 res. urer 01
' tlie United States, the purchaser or lus affiance or otter
legal representative, Siall he entitled to a patent ■o. ■
said lands,on his producing to the Secretary o.t are
s ceipt for such balance endorsed upo. 1 the cert:a.ate.
if anv purchaser shall make payment of tht whole ot t..e
• nurchafe money, at the time when the payment ol t lie | J
firft moiety if (iirefted to be made, he will be entitled to a f
deduaion of ten per ccntum on the part for *h;ch acre
dit is authorized to be given; and his patent shad be 1m- Ken
mediately issued. v j
' Given under my hand at Philadelphia, ti.e t-ay an.- Q |
year above-mentioned. ordi
' OLIVER WOLCOTT, Ma ,
Secretary of the Treasury
.he
Schedule of feßiom of town/hips, tit fraßtonal parts dzy
of town/h'pi, to be fold at Piit/bargh, mptrforinct unt
of the 6th feilton of an all of Congrefsj pjjid on
the 18th day of May, 1 96. z
- 1 r ' hip'
o" O O . . dol
S: . (T i_J , n co
?!<•?! 1 Ml 1
*r sli" - 1 ' - g
ift Range. 6th Xovrslhip. 6tji Range. Su
ift Township. Bai2 640 each iftTownfhip. '^
28 J65 14 40; 17 3
29 256 95 17aaa 640 each 18 470 nt ,
30 150 75 25336 640 2i 8 50 he'
34 240 90 BthTownJhip. l 22 166 40 an ,
3 640 each 3ai4|646each 1 23 427 fhi
2d Towufhip i7a2o|64oeach ; 24 640 the
19 140 23 1640 !27 151 So be.
,f 10 170 7c 25a30;640each 28330640 each tio
n 21 185 33336 64c each j 33 58 pai
12 2 30 iothTownfliip. 34a36 64oeach pa;
y 25 48S 80 ia2 |640 each 2d Townlhip. the
0 »6a27 64a each 5 314640 each 1 126 'ha
28 560 17320 640 each a 440 du'
i- 29 55 1 60 23336 640 each 3 448 cn <
30 564 iithlTownfhip. 4 n . ld
' e 31-36 640 each iai4 64c each 5 464 j 1 "
? 4thTown(hip. 17120 640 each 6 472
s > 19 64 233361640 each 7 1340 cer
1 6 }\ 4 th Bat 4 S4=^
» 26 38760 tft Township.
v 17 36 2a 616 co 640 each
18 640 each V 6 50 3<l Townfh.p.
il " 616 I r 1 470
34 445 10 J 2 478
3 1 "A 1° bleach 3 486
f® 3 , _ Lr, 0 2dTown(hip. 4 494 r
£e JthTownfhip. 6 ; 5 502;
6 139 »o 3 ; 6 5 4 c each 6 { to . 1
is xl 479 30 J J. io 7^l464oeach
le 17 3=4 15 o o 17320 640 each
1863850 4 each 23336 640 each -
»3 450 7S ». c.. sthTowiilhip. c
f 24 640 14 640 1 t
1 7 a20 640 each 1
30 ,!! 3 3®3'. each 5 1:34
of / " 3dTown(hip., 4 :4 „ 0
™ J = 1314640 each
(V 2d Range. 17320 640|e3ch "
n Ift To wnfhip. 23436 640 each 7314 40 elc
"e «8 |71 20 sthTown(hip. I7 "°6 4c t3ch
b- 34 ' 6)50 iai 4 |64c|e3chh 31 4. 664c fl ; ath
3d Townlbip- '7a2<J64oleach ' own
he 24326 640 -3ch 233361640 cach 1 ?
:ts 28 499 16 /thTownfhjp. j ® 40
h« 2-9 640 ia2 64&(c3ch 3
llli 3' a 33 640ieach sa? 640|ea.A 4 -
4thTown(hip. i2ai3 64oeach £93
' e * 11 26 40 18a19 640 each , OJ ,
P. 12 3*7 50 25-640 j ?» 4 640 each
• ' 13 5150 30a 3 6 64oeaclil , 7"^4ceach
» 15 17 50 gthTownfiiip each
1U 16 259 20 ia,4|6 4 o|each
_ 17 524 17a20 640each 1 la 4 64oe3ch
18 64c 64oeachi '? a3 °64ieach
19 635 nthTownfhip.;
? n 20 58.80 . 1 " ,hT ";vnlh.p.
21 6362, t 7 a2o 640 each »i, 6 4 o|each
23a36 640 each z 7 a ?® 40^ ac Jj
jthTownfhip. i^thTownlhip. 1 2^fur r 64 °I a .
»w 5 xai 4 6 40 jeach
-° - 6a7 64s each i7a2064c each: * a Mb4c each
on 23a25 64c each 23336 640 each; X7 a 2c 640 each
he e 7 atß 64c each ... = 23 a 3 4>4o|each
b t c 3243664 c :ach 5^ AN 1 E - »wnfhip.
t 7lhTownfhi P . iftTownfop.l 1314(640 each
rill . 18 274 40 j 17320 64o i each
JthTownfhip 11 87 J* 2 3 a 36 640 each
® " las 640 each 50 j 7thR4NGP.
£ 6 440 I* 64 ° ill Township.
b 7a 14 640 cach ,o*2o'' 30 1 4 1 10
17510 640 each 2 7 39 j36 |ij*l 50
;ft -- 2 \ 3 »9>3064-oeach
OD 9 thTownfhip. ' • < 3 351
le 6 640 , 4 62;
;ht . ® I 1" 30 4 ° each
t3ai 4 64c each ' 10212 eacl >
— 19320 64c-ach j I 4 30
23336 64ojeach £ i7aiß 64oeach
3d Rangb. 5 456 ' r 9 14
sd Township. 6 464 80 : 10 4 9-1 ,
X 5 640 7 250 | 640 each
!. 16 600 8 618 3
or 20 55750 9314 640 each l a l 3 7 r 5, JC
to T 2ia22 64oeacli 17 1201640 each ; 4 " wn , P*
23 609 !23a3616401each ! lal4 |^ 4 3"^
of 25336 64oesch: 4th lownftiip. ,7320 64oe3ch
X 3d Township. ',314 6 4 ojeach
„ 9 188 60 I 17320 6 4 3 each «thTownfl»ip.
% 10 344 23336 6 4 3 each "Mj^o.each
oi 11 267 6fhTownfhip. X7a2o64oeach
of 12 152 ! 1 ai 4 i64oleach T?
ntil \ 14 202 50 | i 7 aao|64c each BthTownfhip.
lall 15 630. I 23a36[64c|each xai4 4 ceach
an- l6aiß 6 4 oteash; BthTo-s.'nfhip. J 732 164c|each
19 217 50 I iai4l6 4 cjeach 13 f 3 #4c|e a ch
di- 20 5x6 75 17a2d64c each xothl ounfhip*
er- 11336640 each 23a 3 6|64cleacii x 31464 c each
ted 4thTownfhip. iothTownfliip. X7 a 2O 640 each
1 170 1 ai4j64o|each *3 336 640 each
keft 4 i7a2c|s4ojeach Township.
* :rs 3 320 23 33616401 each i«i4^4ceach
Lor 4 450 lathTownfhip. 1 ea 'h
5 12c iai4|64deach 6 4C esch
6 640 i732C.|64cle3ch I4'h 1 ownfh.p.
7 563 23a36j64o|each x ai 4j64o|tach
Sa 9 64cJeach i 4 thTownfhip. I7a2o!6 4 o^ach
bid", 10 540 So 1 2 3 a 36 6 4 ce3ch
thin ' 11 529 70' 1732c164c]e3ch
1231 4 640 each 23a36i640|e4ch | X3J4|64o(each
me „ 17120 640 each .I 1 } a2o|6 4 oleach
[be 23236640 each . (13336|640|6ic1»
;ty ; NOTE.
'nud r of Lands in the several townlhips be
f, r7f?A«?° t ,he Lots by the
d'e- SUt£ ' a " d * K °' rf r thofe f °rmerly fold- The ag
dt f ant " l « »Ae [ e «"l twwnfWtw or fraaiontl
that' taVC bcc " 3fcertained by actual fur
fA- Z Y ' am ! t f l£s r ui particular lots or feclions, have
no otherwifcafcertayjod tha a by calculation.
Lands of the United States.
Treasury Department, *
Mgujl 8, i 7 9 - |
Public Notice is hereby given, *
TN curmnce of an ** of Congress patted on the 18th .
I 1 aV of M»v 1746. entitled "an ail providing • 3
iLfale of L Lands df the United States, in the territory 2
n^rth weftof th* river Ohio, an i above " the mouth of
Kentuckv river," that the (garter Tows/tops of land
defcrihed in the annexed fchedpfc, lynff "> thefeven rang
t oMownfaU.* were surveyed in of an 5
J- of ronir-*efs patted on the twentieth day ol
May, in the yeato'ue thqufand fcv<ro hundred aniwghty
fivc Willie 'ey.Dof-d for fa!e at PUBI-IC VfcVDUE, at
he Merchants 1 Coffee-Houfe in Philadelphia, onthe^th
r day of January next, and thenceforward from day to day,
until the tenth dav of February ensuing unless the said
, quart r townthips ftali be fsoner fold in the manner an.
' on th e terms and condition? hereinafter mentioned: Viz.
Ift The said garter tov,nflups ihall be fold to the
" hieheft bidder, but no&le enn b •madetor less than two
dollar; per acre of the quantity of land contained in fu„
, t ] , he h ; g hift bidder 3=. before mentioned, must de
pofita' the time of sale. one twentieth part of the ffor
chafe money, in the hands of the Trealurcr of the United
States, which will be- forfeited.! a moiety o« thelumbid
including the said twentieth pare, (hall not b« paid within
thirty days from the time 01 sale.
id. Upon payment of a moiety of the purcha.e-m©-
ney in the manner befor':rv ; ntioned,-the purchaler_ will
be entitled to one year's credit for the remaining moiety ;
and shall receive a certificate describing the quartar town
fhippurchafed, and declaring the sum paid 011 account, _
the balance remaining due, .the time when such balance
becomes payable, and that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not then
paid ; but if the said balance shall be duly d.fcharged, by
payinr the Tame torthe Treasurer of the United States,
thipurchafer or his assignee or other legal reprefentat.ve,
ihall be entitled to a patent for the said land, on his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such Balance,
endorfedupon the certificate. Cut if any purchafcr Ihall
make payment cf the whole of the purchafe-radney at the
time when the payment of the fir ft mowty is directed te
'be made, he will be entitled to a deduction of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorised to be
tnvtn ; and his patent stall be immediately liiued.
' GIVKN under my harftl -t Philadelphia, the day
and year abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
SCHEDULE
Of Qim-ter-Townftops to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
suance of the 6th fedion of an aft of Congress passed on
the 18th day of May, 1796/
'-rf " — J
<-** • —
A w c:
• s. ' t g
.9- •= o -c
" <£ "f " £
5 c .5 H
co > > O
6£o » u ~
*h- § I ®
c c
55 4 " -a
z o I «a
H
■ ' - fw.. sin «r u ■■ ' lAcaaacM—r
2 jSoß'.h Ealt 5120
North East 5120
South Welt 5120
North Well 5120
20,480 1
3 5 Sooth Eafl 5120
No r th East 5120 -'
South Welt 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
7 South East 5120 v, • ,
North Eafl 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
9 South Eafl 5120
North Eali 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20 ; 480
11 South East 5120
North Eafl 5120
South Weft jj 20
North Weft 5120
20,480
4 4 South East 5120
North East 5120 1 ?
South Weft *
- North Weft 5120 th
'20,480 «t
6 South East 5120
. North Baft j 120 |
South Weft 5120 I
North Weft 5120 I
X>,4So t .
8 South Eh ft 5120 a
North East 5120 tt
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
to South East 5120
North EaiV 5120
Sonth Weft 5120,
North Weft 5120
j 20,480
12 South E-"ft 5120
North East 5c 20
South Welt! 5120
North Welt 5120
! 20,450
5 3 South East 4602
North East 4654 ,
. South Welt 5120 1
North Welt 5120
19,496
5 South East 5120
North East 5120 ,
South Weft 5120 1
North Weft| 5120
: 20,480
7 South East: 5120
| North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 1 5 120
i b«- [ — 20,480
• 'he 6 9 South East 5 120
: North East 5 120
"fur- South Weft 5120
have North Wett 1 5120
, 20.48©
- ' . ' ,*_■ jl—a- 4
a.
e- S'J
& . <| a I
— o« > u o
• — > 0 £~»
GJj «S r 9 o° v
s H £
I Use (J
• o S < §5
• »L-. *-» ~ S
or" >s c =
i z ® ?!•
i
T~ ii South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120'
20,480
j' 13 South East yi2oj
rf North East 5 120
s. South Well 5 120!
f North Weft 5 120
o ; 120,480
<5 4 South East 4630
»_ North East 4620
r- South Weft $120
:d North Weft 5 120
?'■ 19,490
6 South East 4730
5 - North East 47 15
ill South Weft 5120
'« North Weft 5 120
£ , '9.68;
ce ' 8 South East 5120
n- North East 5 120
:n 'Soiith Weft 5 120
>y 'North Weft 5120
; e s ' j I 20,480
0 ' 10 iSouth East 5120
:e, iNorth East 51 20
iH South Weft 5 120
lle North Weft 5120
" 20,480
be 12 South East 5 120
North East 5 1 20
ay . South Vv r dlil2o_ '
North We!! 5 1 20 1
14 South East 5120
North East j 12c
fr _ South Weft 5120
on North Weft 5120
20,480
_ 7 3 South East 512 c
North East 5 1 20
South Weft 5120
North Weft j 120 >
20,480
5 South JJsftsi2p
North East 5120 1
South Weft j 120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
7 South East 5120
v North East 5 1 20
So&th Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,486
9 Sauth East 5 120
North East 5120 Jr.. _
South Weft 5 \ 20
North Welt $ 120
20,480
II South East yi 20
North East 5 1 20
South Weft 5120
North Well 5 120
20,480
13 South East 5 120
North East 51,20
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
L 20,480
15 South East 5120
North East 5 12&
South Weft 5 120 1
'North Weft 5120
I 20,480
NOTE. j
THE quantities of Lands in the several tawnfliip* b«»
fore mentioned, are exclusive of the SeA'ons reserved b r
! the United States. The aggregate quantities in the feve
| ral townships, have been ascertained by-a&ual furv'ey ; but
the quantities in the quarter tewnftrips, have been np
other wife ascertained than by calculation.
Washington Canal Lottery,
N0 . I. T.
WHRREAS the State of Maryland has authored
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, from th P®'
tomacto theEaftern Branch Harbour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz 'i Prize of ao,ooo dollars, • ao,ooo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
T&ltT} J<*°
6 ditto r,ooo 6,c00
10 ditto 400 4.000
40 ditto 100 a,oop
55 ditto jo a,7J°
5750 ditto 11 69,00?
To be railed for the Canal, 26,250
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
gj* The Commiflioners have taken the Securities *e
quired by the aforefaid aift for the pan&ual payment of
the prizes. ,
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are pot demanded in fix months after ths
drawing is firtifhed, Jhall be considered as relinqaifhed for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, a/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
WM. M."DUNCANSON#
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Walhingicn, Feb. 11. §
PRINTED BY JOHN FE N N
—No. 119 —
CHESNUT-STREtf.
{Price Eight Dollars per >jiinr.,l