#a?ette <fthe MnitetJ States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
' ■ItfSit i"i6l TUESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 2, 5796. [Volvmz X. •
Nvmbz* X2I .J 4 a t> t t? c r~ DUTY ON"CARRIAGESI T To be Let.
M«" J _
For HAMBURGH,
. Ta* s*i»
JOHN,
Robert Jackson, Master, July
iKqYfPffiyjg To f»il in fifteen days,
J /3SSEL; HAVING two-thirds of her cargo en
. ,„i re2J . v t0 E0 on board- For freight pr passage
apply to the master on |>oard»t Waln'vwharf, or to
. John Der.naldfon, tj
Ms. 14 Walnut-fttcet. li
56e«tf Mer
Tiily at. — h&v
For Barbados, S(
The Brigantine s ,
A F A in E, I
Francis Knox, Maf'er, | g
TTAS good accommodation for pal- L
fengers, and is expend to fail on £
Thurfdarnntt For freight of a few barrels or passage, D
, Knex at Hamilton « wharf, or g)
' KEARNY WH'.RTON. T
For Freight,
_ THE BRIO Ir
Benjamin Glasikr,
tTROM Uverpool. Now diftharging at P. Care's wharf, (
r and will immediately afterwards take m Freight for
NEWBURY PORT and BOSTON.
To fail in all next week. For freight or passage, apply to
cajit. Glafier, on board, or to . So 1«
Isaac Harvey, jun. t>v
No. J South Water Street. Mo
7 mo. *7 . J IW - Jfc
For Sale, Freight, oFegf c£,
— The Schooner gw
ML ANGELICA,
ujroSL&'L hundred and twenty tons burthen — 1 Age
vj fix months old, a (launch, faithf illy- _J
vefTcl, handsomely finiihed off, and weli
found in every particular. For terms apply to
7 r B. RHODES,
On Board said schooner, If try. at Bickley and Bohldn's T(j
wharf, the firft above Market-street.
WHERE THERE ARE FOR SALE,
A few half-bbls. Prime Mejs Beef. \
July 44 §_
For Sale, A
Or for Charter tothe Well-Indies, >.
C E*R E S,
jHtSMSr- Philadelphia Built,
r-vf Live Oak and Rid Cedar, burthen about 3500 bar
reb, now discharging at Latimer's wharf. I'his vef- 1
fel is in excellent repair, well fouad-and wni bear a tho-
rough examination, andas soon as difchartjed will be tea-
Ay to take in a cargo. For terms apply to
John Vanghan- - »
' . —§ ] att
J ' ■ ten
For Sale or Charter,
, THE SNOW
BOSTON, «
iooo Bbls. of flour—(he may be lent
t* sea at a small eXpenee, her fa'ds and rigging being in | del
very good order—apply to
fames Campbell, or —
Geerge Latimer.
April 19, § J
This Day commenced Landing,
At V ifflint wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop
St. Jago, from St JagodeCuba —confiding of th
White Sid Brown Box SUGAR. le:
MOLASSES, of an excellent quality. I th
COFFEE. or
HIDES and HONEY. Also, in
For Sale or Charter. j
\ (lout, strong veflel, will carry a- j t«
■ig? '. 4 A bout 1 too barrels, and may go to fe
1 >W}y' i fca with a very small expense. ic
The above will be fold for cash or approved notes. u:
Samuel Emery, K 0
No. 64, fouthSecond-ftreet. L
July 27, 796. dtf " o
Just Arrived, „
In the (bio Molly, John Frofl, Master, from Liverpool, f,
5000 Bushels Best fine ftoved SALT,j <J
600 Bu(b Is CO \L, x
And .18 Crates of QUti.MS WARt affortf<l„ '
FOR SALE BY
Philip Nicklin & Co. F
j. - - S B. THE S AID
Ship MOLLY,
for SALE or CHARTER, (he is 5
1 years old, Philadelphia built, of white |
oak, wiv.-cll (ahed and carries about 4*oo barrels of Flour.
For terms apply as above, I
J".iy - I
Landing
From on board the Nancy, William Belcher, maf-j
ter, from Bourdeaux, a cargo, confiding of— I
360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET,
, 232 Cases of 24 bottles each CLA RET, ,
do. pf 24 do: WHITE WINE, 1
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS,
For Sale by
F. Coppingei.
I'.'iy 2}. dtf.
Take Notice,
HPHAT he Snbfcriber intends to mane applica- J
JL tion foi the renewal of a Certificate, No. 1609, j
for 4000 dollar, dated the 14th December, I"9s, bearing
intercft at f { f>y cent, from ift January, 1796, in the |
-i-me of David [..nderdale & Co. of Leeds, in York
(hi'-e, merchants. The fame is supposed to have been 101 l J
on its way to New undtf cover to Blceeker & I
March, of tltatplace, p n the 6th of January last- 1
v Thomas M'Euen.
Philadelphia, 2zd June 1 §w
' ' ' v.• J
j CABLES,
Fiom v 6 to 9 j inches, for sale by
yeremiab Warder, I^h
July 11 S No ia northThird-flreet. of
— ance a
Wm. HOLDERNESSE, C;
No. "]6 Strcetj , ...»
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and 10
the East Indies, a well feleiftcd assortment of S.lk
Mercery Linen Drapery and Haberdalhery Goods; which
he- will fell, Wholcfale and Retail, on the lowed terms ;
amongst which ase,
Some fine India mufiias embroidered with gold and friver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aad Mulmul ditto
Do r do do do Handkerchiefs
j Some extrablack taffetie 9 ,lut«ftringsand colored Pcrfians
! Bandano Handkerchiefs.
Long and (hort Nankeens
Englilh Mantuas of the firft quality
Damalk table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant affortmint
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irilh Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
" THE SALE OF For a,
The TOWN, and OUT LOTS of the TOWNS
of ERIE, WATERFORD, FRANKLIN T hi
and WARREN. . u . D /«»
\ DVERTISED for sale by the State Agents, in the Fula- ot sej
Lx aelphia Gazette and Univerial Daily Advcrli^-'
Sold'in the City of Poiladelphia; will commence • '«>
Tavern orCoifee-Houfe in Second-Street, in the he ;
Mondav the 23th day of July inft. at 7 o'clock, iii <
ing. and becontinued by adjournment Irom day ic.-
r» u'-lotK «' noon, until two o'ciocK.and from 7
o'clock, ib pvyning, whole of the ford lAJ
OU rLOTsare"difpofedof. The conditions of sale v. iii
made known, and the plans of the said LOIS anv, OJI 5
LOT S be (hewn at the time and place of sale.
By order of William Irvine, Andrea/ Ellic. ttand TVitfm , ■
. EDWARD FOX, AuSiorttr.
j J"'y at th
Sales of India Goods.
' The Cargo of the (hip Ganges, capt. Ting«y, from Cal
cutta and Bengal, P
CONSISTING OF
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE In t
A variety fine worked and plain Muslins,
Doreas, 15"c. Also, 5
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, ;
Iu boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by ' 0 n
Willings Francis,
No. XI Penn Street.
June 8' $
>- — -
Public Notice is given, —
1"0 the merchants and others concerned in the (hipping
.« 1,-mrtit.f Jnifailti. if . fh.it a will
j attend evety morning, sundays excepte37"Tront nine to
„ ten o'clock," at the Healthoflice, No. 31 Wninut-ftreet, to
convey proviTions or other Refrelhmcnts to the Hospital,
and for the use of the crews.
It is expefled that tjie Bags, Baskets, or other packag
es with supplies, willbc direifted with'thn name of the ves
sel and captain they are intended for, to prevent midakes
at delivery.
it By order of the Board of Health for the port of Phila
in delphla, LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH, Chairman. „
J u 'y 13 § 1
— ——— * Ke
Philadelphia, Weft-Che tier, Strajburgb, w0
Lane after, Tork and Frederick-town
STAGES. Z
' I 'HE proprietor! of the ■above Stages, retufn their best 1
op 1 thanks to their friends and the public in general, for —,
the encouragement received in this line of business, and beg
leave to inform the public, that they arc determined to run
I their [Uges through from Philadelphia to Lancaster in jj £
I one day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July instant,
in the following manner, —viz. A Stage will ftt out on ,
tbat dav at 4 o'clock in the morning, front the house o( -
i George Weed, Market-street, Philadelphia, a..
\ the way of Weftcnefter and Strafburgh, arrive =r.I :c?f- .
a- ter the fame evening, l on Friday morning run to ». r:pv
to ferry and exchange passengers with the York and . ■ 'i.
ick-town ftagc, return and arrive in Philadelphia
urday, and on Monday morning following, at 4 oVioc
said stage willfet out from the said George Wee' : .
delphia, and arrive at Lancaster the (arn« aveiii
Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out ftr Mc
I los Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philaddphia ' ex ,
the fame evening, and will commence again on Thtirfday j rlv
morning following, and continue «very week—The price i f ra
'» for each passenger from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three 1
F ] dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three qaar- , jj
' tei s, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like funs for
| 150 weight baggage, with the usual allowance of 14 lb. e( j
I gratis to each passenger, and 5 pence a ir.i'e for all way tu
passengers. 30— §4W Sc
John Reilly, ci
George Weed.
hull T0 L eT, " -
A Large Cellar, .
Under the Meeting-House in Walr.ut-ftreet j
Enquire at No. 5i Sccond-llreet, corner of Chefnut»ftreet.
July 30 3t
» f 'j The FLEPHANT.
I ' | 'HIS surprising animal is arrived in this city en his way
J. to Charleston. He is to be seen in High-street be
tween Tenth and Eleventh streets, from fix o'clock in the
morning to Sunset.
Admittance—Half a Dollar—Children, a quarter of a
Dollar. July 30 §6eotf
A well-finiflied, commodious
rf. HOUSE
— Eor Sale, and immediate possession given,
I OVTUATE on the north fide of Spruce llreet, Ne 111, '
lica- | between Fourth and Fifth streets. The house, piazza I
609, an d back buildinjrs ?re three (lories in height, andpeife&i
rinp ly well adapted for the accommodation of a large family,
the j as they conta a twelve good rooms, exclullve of two ciel
8i k- |ed garrets. In the yard, which is neatly paved, there are
i loft j two pumps ; one in a rain cistern, the other of as good
r & ! water as any in the city : The cellars are dry and lu' ge.
The terms of payment will be easy : a great part of the
I purchaff-money in all probability may lay for years on in
-1 ter-'l. Apply at No. 109, i.est d»or eastward.
w July 3 & slw
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
TMAT agreeably to ati aof oi the Lniced j^ ew .
Siateiol America, paifcd ac PhilacJeJphia, the «BiK day
of May, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey*
ance of pcrlons, and repealing the forme* acis for that pui
pose. .t- Thai there (hall be levied, colicfted aud paid, Jul
ail fur tive cooveyancc of pcrfont, which inail b'
ktpf u, ot'ior «i*y foi bis or her owu ule, or to i«-<
out to bire, pr forxhe conveving of palfcagcrs, ihs fcvcral du
ties anc! rates following, to wit.
For upon every Coach, 15 dols. A
upon every Chariot, 12,d0!5. *- **
upon tvery Post Cbajiot, 12 dol's. Meffr
upon every Po»t Chaise, 12 dols. bow .
upon every Phaeton, >vitb ot without top, gdols Pol
upon every Coachee, 9 dols. ]
u]43f» other Carriages, iaaving panne 1 work above,
with blinds, glafies or curtains, qtiols. / A p
upon four wheel carriages, having Tramed posts. and
tops with Heel springs, 6 dols, -r —
upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
ipnugs or jacks, 3 dois. p E
upon curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon chaises with tops, 3 dols, , . IN
upon chairs with U>ps. 3 dols.
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wherl top carriages, 3 dols.f
upon two wised carriage, wi:h flccl or iiou fpringfc,
3 dols.
For and upon all otf»cr two wheel caniages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheel carriage, having framed posts AV
and tops, aad-reftiug upon wooden sparS, 2 dols > v
The CoIIc&ots of the Revenue ot the firft lurvpy ot the ihe t
Diftrift of Pennsylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th da\ 1q n
of September next, tot the purpofc of rece " tng the duties on Jud'h
** V<% %x 7, in Rice or Saffafrai street, in the Cuv alter
.he house of Daniel S. Clair, Efq irt the p eM
;y ; and at the house of Abraham Du- purs
of Bucks of w ich all personS pol
* -re desired to take notice.
is alio given, dei P
cr-- in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri- 1W:
ceg will be granted to them ; one li
be business of retailing of Wines, in a An .
icisqtiaincy, oi iu *tls quantities than 30 gallons—and one ei
licencc or carrying on the business of retailing Spirituous In jj
qucrs lefsauantities than 20 gallons, at the lame time and th
at the {.me places, by the ofHcer» legally authorized to grant tc
fucb licnices. St
WILLI M NICHOLS, pre f
Infpeftor of the Revenue ot the firft survey g Te {
of the ot Pcnnfylvania. ac^
Offic<of lnfpeftion,at > j 3° the
Philade.pni*, 21ft July, 1796 J A civd
Just Arrived, I and
In the Snow Boftan, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li- and
verpool, ' Phi:
5000 Bulhels SALT : iaut
100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; and to t
An Assortment of SHIP CHANDLERY 5 r z.
FOt SALE [h 1
On board, at Piitt-llreet wharf. Apply to
fames Campbell, or
George Latimer. ; u .t
April J9. 5 ' aid
_ . ele\
J_ 1 m ■ n c- a —— ——
the Merchants' coffec house, in Second ftreetj the
1, One thousand shares of the stock of
the North America Land Company.
If not previoully disposed of.
s Philadelphia, aothjuly. ts
>- TAKE NOTICE,-
application will be made for the renewal of
the following certificates, ifiued by Joseph Noiirfe, 1
Register of the Treasury, in thf name of Roger Gril me
'» wold, Esq. of Norwich, Conne<aicut—
i certificate, fix per cent domestic stock, No. 13>9°7
—datejthe 17thDecember, 179J, bearing interest from I
the firt day of January, 1791. for 1.597 dol- F
ft 1 ditto, three per cent, domestic stock, No. 10,6X2
>r —date! December 16, 1795. bearing interest from the ™
; g firft day of January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dollars.
in 1 ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,166— dated the 17th
in December, 1795, bearing interest from the firft Janu
ary., 1801, for 798 83-100 dollars. , 0 ,
Said certificates are fuppoled to hive been loft or p (
■ jitv-foine time in December or Janua y g e
71 : 'Iryp" t»i
VH THOMAS,
No. J9, North Front-street.
SI, 1796. d6w. J
■ 1■ — . - ii m ' 1 ' ■ I
? Seat to be 1' Id
: 5 . and a half of land near the three I
I mue lioiieon the road leading lo Gray's gardens ind
ia ! extending wituagentle declivity from the said road to the 1
; r ; ver Schuylkill—on which are ereflsd, a convenient
ce j frame house l'uitable for a tenant, a frame bara and ftabje, I
ee : a large Brick House forty-eight feet front, two (loriet
: r " < high, a very elegant piazza fronting the river, the whole j
or breadth of the house supported with turned pillars, floor- 1
ed with cedar plank, cemmandißg an exter.five and pic-
-y turefque view of the Middle Bndge, Gray s Gardens, the I
Seat of Wm. Hamilton, Esq. the Turnpike Road and
Canal. The improvements are all new—and the ground I a
conveniently divided and inclosed by new cedar fences. 1
For urms apply at No. Ijl Market-street. I
July 17 *7' I
FOR SALE, ~~
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, J
in pipes and hogsheads
:et " * Claret, genuine old, in cafe 3
L Gin, in pipes, -from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, in hog [heads
"»y Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
,)C Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
the Steel, German and Russia, in barrels
Anchor , cables, junk, bunting, tacpolin canvas, I
>f a Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by
■L. THOMAS * JOHN KETLAND,
us J»'r L.
Just Arrived
In the brig Betsey, from Jeremie, and for sale by I
the fobferi' ers. |
lzza ' Forty thousand wt. of very prime Coffee
"edti in hogftieads and bags
lilt. And, in the schooner Hope, from New Orleans.
ciel- BEEF t
: are COTTON |
rood HIDES and
i'ge- LOGWOOD.
the A liberal credit will be given for Approved Notes.
Richard and James P6tter.
W July 17. . its J( (
To be Let,
A large conventjmt three (lory Br'ck-Houfc, pi ifanr'y
situated, on the weft fide of vppo&e ■ * the
Mew-Marker.; nirtv m the occupation of Henry Ctymur
Ai>i»lyto
Wtlftam Bingham.
July sy. 6ti
— ——, —j -ft •
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
facet, betw xa Ftont and Second Otrv'tfs,';n which
Messrs. Janeea Calbraith & Co. h'atfe fqi many years (and
now do) carried on hofineft.
Poffeflion will lit given in one month, or foonri, ' .
For terms apply to WILLIAM EELL or
HECTOR !
April tt. j
united states, fj-
Pennsvlvania Distjuct, j
IN THE NaME ANTJ-BY i rtE
OF THE UNITED Si ATES,
By IVILLI A M A* ICHO LS,
Marshal of the Fennfyfvanja DiArist, —
APROCLAiMATIO u T .
WHEREAS the Congress of the United it res at
the firflfeflion of the fourth Cpngrcfs, to wit} on
ihe tjvclfthday of May laftpaft, pallid an ail, to r-yai
so much of an ail, intituled •' an ad. to cftubliin ,h«
1 Judkia I. ourts of the United States", a? direitv that the
alternate lefiions o( the Circuit Court for the DiVirVti of
; Peimfyivaliia, lhalJbe holden afYorktown ; andfor other
purposes, in »he follov ing wore?, to wit.
Fourth -Con°;iv{s of the United States •
At thefirt ftffloa. beguo. and b« Id a*-thcsilsiff Phila
delphia, »u the "V'cniif. iv«rta/on Mc.ndVy, the
seventh of December, one thuufand seven hunch ea and i
nine y-fiye
a An Act to repeal so mucb of an a-ii intituled "an a<ft to
eitablifli the judicial courts of the United States", a;di
p:ifU that alternate leffions of the said circuit court or
i thediftriil of Pennf) lvama shall be lioluen at York
' town ; and for othtr pur ofes.
Se&. I. BE it enacted bytheSenats and Huufc of Re
presentatives I.f the United States of America, in Cos
y grefc aliembled, That lo much oi th, filth fcdlion of the
, acl, intitu ed «an acft to etiahlifh the judici; com sos
the United States", as directs tljat alternate sessions o. the
circuit court for the diilrift of Prnnfyivartia shall 1 ~d-en
en at Yorktown, be, and the fame is h i y d.;
and that all the leflions oi the faiei circuit Vou't t f i rom
i- and alter the palling of this aft be holden at !».e city of
Philadelphia, excepting only, when at ..ny feiWi .1 '.he
takl court, th« judges thereol fh„il riireei the Kif Xtffion,
to lit holden at Yorktown , which they are hereby autho
rized and empower, d to do, whenever it shall appear to
th.ru to beneceffary.
Seit. 11. And oe it further ena&cd, That all luch pro
cess oi the fcid Court, as may have iiTued befote the pafs
ng of this ad, and all recognizances returnable, and ail
fu»ts and ether proceedings that were continued to the
said circuit court for 'lie aillricl of Pennfylvar.ia, on the
eleventh of October next, in Yorktown, fh .ll now be re
turned, frit,,,?, ~
lame «>■ , ir[ . Tr^,r . | „ nnf . rn .^ | ma y l iayc ~,, ; ce 0 {
the alteration hereby made, the Maifhal of the said dif-
T triiit is hereby required ta make the lime known, by pro
-0 lain at ion, on or before the fit P. day of Atlgufl next
r, Jonathan Dayton,
Speaker of the House of P tprvfer.c. ives.
SaMVPA- LIVbRMORE,
President of the Senate, pro tempore.
Approved, May the twelfth, 1^96,
GfokGE W.i*iHNGTON,
of President of the United States. '
!e, Deposited among the Rolls, in the Olliceof the Depart
rii' meai of State,
Timothy Pickering,
37 Secretary of St^te.
,m IDO HEREBY MAKE KNOWN that ail such
process of the laid court as has, or may be iflued, and all
gj recognizances returnable at Ivritmvn aforefaid, on the tie-
J, e ncntb djyuf QSlaicr next, will he returned to the Circui of
the United States,, at the City Hall, in the eity of l'hila
delphia, onTuefday the tUv.-rrtb day of Oilober pext, at
lu eleven o'clock in the forenoon, And that all ftiits and o>her
proceedings that w> re continued to the said court at York
town, will be held and continued at the said Circuit
or Court, at Philadelphia, on the fame Ele evil' day of Oc.o
---1 y ber next, of which all persons concerned are desired to
take notice, and give their attendance thereat.
GIVEN under my hand, at my office, in the Di"r el
of Pcnnfylvania, the twenty-fev.-nth day of July,
1 in the year of our Lord one thoufaiid lev.ll hun«
— I dred and ninety-fix, and of our Independence the
[J I twer.ty-finl.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
-nd j Marjhal.
the I July'a 7 §iw
ient I
bje, t — -
ioie W Canal Lottery,
>°r\ nO. 1.
P', c " I ■*TTHEREAS th? State of Maryland has authorised
'j I * ' the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thoufaftd,
all< ! 1 two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
lUn I a Canal through the City of Walhington, from the Paj
I tomacto tht Eastern Branch H?roour.
The following; is the SCHEME of No. I.
LL- I Viz -I Prize of 20,000 dollars, 10,000
x ditto 10,000 10,000
7 lafl drawn") J>ooo 3J 000
old; | Tickets, each J
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
J 10 ditto 40s 4,000
ao ditto 100 a,OOO
SS ditto 50 4,7,50
1 J7J° d' tto 11 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 46,250
58$0 Priz«s, lysfioo
I 11650 Blanks, not two to a prise.'
ivasj I
n j 17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
A I ' ,£ Commissioners have taken the Securities re '
_v j quired by the aforefaid aft for the punctual payment of
I the prizes. t
I The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
.e by J delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
I notice will be given.
>ffee I Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
I drawing is finifhed, shall be consider das relinquis"ed for
I the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
ns * I (Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
t DANIEL CARROLL, e/D.
1 LEWI* DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M. DUNCANSON,
Btei - I THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
its 1 Cit® of Fe ll *. tt a'WiJ-l'lJ— ' ■*" »■■■■■ lliat xj ■
d7T~77aT- the ml
Philadelphia,
*1 TUESDAY EVENING, August ». -pp]
Died on Saturday last, after a (hort illness, AR-* cipatia
CHIBALD ENGLE, Esq. Deputy Colledtor " COB<
of the diftrift of Pennsylvania. " e j"'
In Saturdays gazette we announced the death of c
Mr. Kennedy, late Secretary of the Land-Office other i
of this (late. Of this gentleman the following no- ns
ticcsarea tiibute of jwflice to civic and private a P'
merit: Mr. Kennedy died after a few days illnafs, P ur ;
in the 55th year of his age; upwards of 20 ot " n
which hs had b«en in public ferrice. In difcharg: uirer
ing the duties of his office, Mr. Kennedy was affa
ble, punctual and conscientious. In private life g'°
complacency of temper, benevolence of heart, and a '
•he circle of Christian virtues, formed the promi
nent features of his character ; and viewed as a huf- 13 Y
band, father, friend, or faithful servant of the pub- |' on
lie, his removal from life is a public and private lrt °
loss. His remains wete interred in Arch-llrect 1
burying ground on Sunday morning, attended by
a numerous train of citizens. '
Our treaty with Spain was ratified by the king ' e*"
on the 26th April, and the ratification received er
here last Saturday. -°™
From "a Correfponrlent.
» SPIRIT OF 1776.' 0U
Our Jacobins pretend to feel the spirit of -p
What was that spirit ?It was all pure American, r
without any adulteration or intermixture with L " c
French taffia or democratic whisky. Congress in 0 v
the declaration of independence spoke the language "J" 1 '
of Americans—the language of manly go#d lenfe . '
and real national dignity. They declare that as to tl ™ ]
Britain they will, "be enemies in war, in pcaee P sltl
friends." ,
The war whoop Jacobins exclaim, we arc ene- u
miesto Britain. A friend of Britain is a foe to e *
our liberty and independence. Is this the spirit of ur
'j6 ? U U dire&ly contrary. It is the firft ar
ticle of Jacobin duty to be the enemies of Britain
in peace. Yet aflc them, whether they would go
to war with that nation, they fay and swear no, no, othl
no. It is tiuly said ofthofe who will /wear that t ere
they will *** te i
The spirit of *76 was pitriotic. No country ftrn
was then loved or refpe&ed so much as our own—
The Jacobins lately toasted the French constitution
and gave nine cheers. To our own they gave on-,
ly three. Citizen Jacobins, is this like' 76 ?
The spirit of' 76 was magnanimous and heroic. t hii
We appealed to heaven, and defied the hods of in \
Britain and her hireling Germans. No one then 01
desponded or shrunk from the crisis. What is the l 'f
languageof the-Jacobins at this day ? It was France
and France alone that won liberty and independence thj
for America. _ Ms
Our liberty cannot be maintained, if the French ths
are defeated. We mud become slaves uolefs the Ai
French hfcld their conquests of Flanders, Holland D;
and Savoy. Their cause is our cause. (
Is this the spirit of '76. No, it is the language * v {
of cowards and traitors. It is the language of fu- th
oitiyf» from a land of slavery and who bring the t0
Spirit OT tiavcs wnii un.w,
maintain with the native Americans that are th.
now infinitely more able" in refpeft to power and re
sources and not any worse disposed than we were in tn
'76 to maintain our liberty and independence.
The fpitit of '76 was really independent. Con
gress with indignant firmnefs rejected every attempt
of Britain to treat \|ith us as Colo™"- But our
Jacobins, with the spirit of Coloniils, orrather with
the dastardly spirit of slaves, reproach our Govern.
ment with having made a treaty without consulting
France, deny the right or propriety of any treaty Wl
with her foe, and rejoice to read the miserable in- et
fultsand threats that are copied from the Paris tv
news-papers, or fabricated in this country. P'
Tske a review of the conduct of our disturbers 'Y
and it will appear that there is no resemblance bet- te
ween their principles and those of '76 which they ra
affect to hold in veneration. There is a muchnear
erlikcnefs bctwven the Jacobins and the Tories of c< -
'76. The tories said at that day, America cannot > e
govern herfelf—(he must be dependent on Britain P ;
to protest her. _ P (
The Jacobins parody this sentiment and exclaim g
forever, draw close and closer the bands of brother- V
lv union with France. Our liberties depend fulely
on this union. If France throws us off, we are loft
and undone. Our,political salvation is staked upon H
the alliance. Men of' 76, if you are not in your v
graves, are you not angry to hear Jacobins take 11
yotir names and disgrace them ? 11
Kxtrads from the AURORA. a
Certain violent enemies to 'the trade of kings
think that the French have made an indifferent f
bargain with his Sardinian majesty ; and that he _
Ihould have been at once turned out of a throne of 1
which his tyrannical government, and the proverb- a
ial perfidy of his ancestors have rendered the whole !
family so remarkably undeserving. The terms of <
the Treaty, if examined with attention, willjullify c
the French. They are to poflefs his fortrefles till 1
the end of the wai, and after that time, till a trea- <
ty of commerce is concluded between the parties. <
We may readily guess what kind of treaty is, under <
such circumllances, lik«ly to be made. The terri ]
tories which the French now hold are liable to con
tributions, till restored ; and the mal contents in '
the royal dominions are to be indemnified. Add to 1
this, that about two fifths of his continental terri
tories are taken from him, and the reft more than
- half fiiriounded by the French conquests. It must
then beevident that he has paid pretty smartly for
his snare in the confpiracj of crowned heads ; and'
that he is now but a pageant exilling by the in
dulgence c£.'he Republic.
Buonaparte has begun to collect the paintings
of Coiregio in order to be transmitted to Paris. It
aly will undoubtedly be Uript of a great part of its
paintings, statues, and other' valuable monuments
, of ancient and modem genius. It was 1 litis that
the old Romans tieated Corintb, Syiacufe and
Carthage.
The two Republics of Venice and Genoa, lying
on the twooppoflte fltores of Italy, are now at
the mercy of the French. One of the firft steps
of the latter will likely be to interdidl them from
any further commerce will* Enaland i In
that Brififtftrade in the Levant will te cut through
the middle. Qua
THUS we find that the amount of the eman- |hef<
",rr«ii .ft««»L'»"»»: 52
r ded by French Conquests. The paintings aii -
' o f herprecioui articles are colleftcd and sent te Pa- los
r A "It was thus, that the old Romans [whom dif,
" all enlightened men have denominated thieves fay,
' plundereu and tyrant, of treated tend
f Corinth, Sycacuie and Carthage. Carthage.
' filler Republic ! Carthage who for daring to vie is
with a « fitter Republic," was levelled with the g
■. ground, and her citizens consigned to Qav|ry. A - _
d ter all that has been said, nothing is more certain
f than this, that Republics can hate «ch other as cor- h=
I da, - z
tion is overcome, by the tame are tney a B wjl]
Is this what Mt. Bache means by_ihe everlafttng mil
| jargon-the French cause, the cause of Liberty . are
y I, it, pray tell us Mr. Bache; is it our cause, or fttc
lff the catiie of Liberty, that the French (hobld plun
i der the paintUgs of Milan, the silver vases of do-
Rome, or break open thcbaoki of Genoa or Ve : ere
nice? It is the cause of Liberty that every one
{hould have his own.
6 From the Courier Francoit.
From Francs we learn, that there are on the
t u [locks, in tr.e several ports of the republic, 19 6
• of war, which will be soon ready for sea, foi the 7
„ e utmott adlivity is used in the conftruftion °fJ"" 1,
ff e The government has purchased at Hamburgh, ship
t() timber to the amount of ten millions, which they
)ce paid in ready money. It appears, that France ha- °
ving subdued the continental powers, means to turn
nc . its attention to England ; and th-' n—"""
t0 escape if France ferjoufly wiiht
0f Further accounts from the . '' %
ar . Defeat qf the Aafirt. <- ['■*>'
New-Yoi .
alB WE have taken much fruitle! p.iic- ; j
2° papers, by the Fair American -they '• • .*#*-. • I
■°» other hands. We are informfd they 5 r: . v
hat terefting matters of the progreia ui 3a»Sijjai
te in Italy, who was approaching KoME will rapid f a
try strides. We cannot learn whether minute nlations
refpeding the northern army are contained in them :
Paris wis tranquil,, as were the principal tewns in L
10n France, and plenty abounded. m
on "' OF THE BATTLE ON THE RHINt, m
—A paflenger relates that there was but on t ; that al
oic. this out battle lasted tfuo days, and that it terminated ac
1 of in favor of the French, by a complete REPOSSESSI-
hen ON of those important posts which General Jourdan a j
t h c left in his retreat lasl campaign. This information was
received at Nantes, from Paris, on the iStli June —
and as the poll from Paris to Nantes goes in tlree days, 0
:nce the Paris accounts which are said to contain this infor- c
mation were probably of June 15, three diys- later w
>nch than the papers said to have been received by the Fair n
the American, and now in the hands of the Editcr of the
land Daily Gazette. j
Some of the palfengers (which are 41 in tumber) .
aver, with bitterness of foul, that the yacabitti,{Ar,ubt- 1
1 ess meaning th? republ\:an rcvclutionifls )ha.ve too much c
' the lead ik France : and they exptdl here, f
the t 0 g ac ] j government more congenial to thei- wlfhes. t
1J —'• '• j j bufC tIT"C~S C*«, CCfit lOh," J
are the royalijls and chouans have been almo.t subdued.
J re- To-morrow we hope to be able to give some ex
re ; n trails.from the Parij papers.
2 on . PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
•mpt Ft the Gazette of the UnitedStatis
our No. IV.
w j t [j THAT the bufmefs of devifiag and carrying in
rern. e *ecution a public plan for the general diffufion
Iting ' ear ning among the citizens of this Common
.eaty wealth is arduous and attended with peculiar dlffi
e ; n _ eulties, the flow progress' made in the atttmp at
Paris 'wo fefiions of the legislature, seems abundantly-to
piove. Since the project was firft darted inPenn
rbers fylvania, the government ot New-York has crigina
bct- compleated a system, which is now n ope
they rafton.
near- I* i» con ft fled that there are difficulties to be en
es of countered in this state, which do not perhaps' pre
innot sent themselves in so formidablr ? 'haoe in any other
-itain P art l ' le Union. They ate hov--*er a* -j
porary kind, and must from the i:
claim give way to the aflimilating !'
rther- will promote the good of th'
solely dered as an unfurmountah'
e l o ft (titution of the Ufiited St 1
U p on many various interefls, t
your were incompatible with each other, that it wouiu l>«.
take impossible to adapt the laws and regulations grow-'
ing out of the system to the views, wilhes, feelings
and interests of a people so divided by b«bits, and
kings local prejudices. Events have (hewn how little
Ferent foundation there was for such apprehensions,
at he The people of this commonwealth may be divided
>ne of ' nto f° ur great clafTes—native Ameiicaris, German
jverb- al "l l"" 1 fettlcrs, and Quakers. I mention the last
whole as a class, besaufe tho'compofed of native Ameri
rmsof cans, they form a very diftin£l body from the
juliify others, in relation to the fubje& under corifideration.
es till With refpedt to the firft class there will be no diffi
i trea- culty—tlity so justly appreciate the benefits of edu
arties. catian, that an iaftitution which (hall extend them
under equally to all the children of the commonwealth
: terri- will receive their support almost univerfailly. The
0 con- The lrifh settlers will also be found cordial friends to
nts in the plan—they realize that the oppreflions they
Idd to fnffered in their native country are principally to he
; terri- attributed to the gross ignorance in which the land
e than holders keep the body'of the people.
!t must 1 have heard of some objections 011 the part of the
ly for Germans; they arifc from the fame source with
; and' those which have been urged by the Quakers
the in- These two deferiplions of citizens, too mueh under
the influence of what the French term I'Efprit du
intings Corpt, justly estimating the immense Imponance of
is. It- education, have formed extensive eftablilhmcnts for
of its the advantage of their refpedlive denominations,
iments Thefc eKabli(hmenti are supported Ly what is
is that called a voluntary expence. They are cxclufive in
e and nature, being confined to the children of thoft
particular descriptions. They fay that a law which
, lying ftiould compel them to contribute to support fchooli
ow at from which they derive no immediate advantage it
1 (leps tinjuft. That it will eventually undermine and de
-1 from ftroy their particular seminaries, in which alone
nd ila their Hirous mindoles allow them 10 educate thei:
Qg*m :• » »"«"»> "T. Zr J. So,
SSEEH&ss s=
t t tin r Pfifops of fortune, and some without., mtjdef
?££Tno SribacMo", cynic, and phi have ,
lofophers without fouh-thefe object to being tax- k.ngd
S he fuppo.t of indentions from winch they the ofl
,',h y lc,i,c.»i»m«i ,« -b"« »»; " h .
S S. .te p°»' »"e'" » »' T°"V or »»'
learning m.k-. .hem Mfc, id proud. Ol =»
L Jd.&rip.ioo, God, «r » d,r ' 3;
-g
methods which,appeared neceffaty to be adopted on )
the pan of the people ,o obtain juß.ee 1. this hi- 1u.,«
terefling bnfmefs. The preceding fetch having be cc
alreadv exceeded the preferred l.m.ts, tbe fub,ca . do« ,
will betaken up in my next. Medntime, it is sub- ,
m'itted, whether these objections, formidable at they king
are (and I think they cannot be placed in a mueh I wor
ftionger point of light) ought to arrest for one I (?«*£«
moment, the progress of a plan on which the free- ■
• dom and happiness of this prcat, and rapidly en- you,
S;; >r fofp-nd-d . TUob-j » -
. ieftions to be noticed in a future number. E. ".era
From the Columbian Centinel. " c ' e , r
Mr. Russell, be ,h
J. TESCHEMAKER, Esq. of EfTeqmbo, a ver
nowrefident in tbis town, having been confined '
I bv one of the inferior officers of the Biinfli forces word
' in that colony, was liberated by Col. Hillop, the Wha
" commanding officer. Jnftice is due to all men; k«o«
„ and as an evideifte of the gentleraan-like conduct curie
' of Col. Hiflop, you are dcfired to insert the- en- thele
' closed in the Centinel. Yours, J. C.
" To John Croydon, Esq.
Starbrock, June 5, 1796. that
ISj «j k wife
' 1 -vVAIL myfelf of the earliest moment to woul
los the reftilt of my_caaverfation with" your
nor. relative to the arrellation of MefTrs. P™'
ker and Dekoker.—The eircumftantes the 1
V it ippears atttn<Jed that of the firlt menti- ever,
utti ; g t ...leman, are of a nature which could not «>t hi
d fail to impress me with the deepefl concern; and have
18 it is my particular with in having the pleasure to dual
: accede to your desire for his immediate enlarge- after
° ment, he may be perfeßly afTured thereof. The note
measure was wholly without my knowledge, being ope.
at absent at the time on the east coalt when it was ele
•<1 adopted ; and had I thought it requif.te to consider
J - Mr. Tefchemaker, under the dcfcription of a dif
in affeded person to the Britilh government, I (hould «nt.
" not have forgotten the delicacy which is due to milt
~ one of his property and consideration, in the exe- tiar
, r I cution of my orders. Harsh or abrupt nicafures and
er will never be permitted, far less countenanced by yea.
iir me ; and ydu may be assured, Sir, that 1 have too tim.
he just a sense of my duty, and too highly value the one
Britifli name, to treat with feveiity, or the least ocl
LV improperly, those whom lam sent in its name to LHc
, c h defend ; trusting always, that their affeftioH will sure
re , fully entitle them to the courteous pioteflion of ten
ies'. theii kins. I beg that tliefe ftntunents may be t">r
Mi 9 iully expfaTheH and understood. Thty will ever
be found to be the sole regulator of my conduit in —
ex " the discharge of the duties of my situation. I
could wi(h that some enquiries were made into the
ciicumdances of the outrage alleged against Mr. Dtj
Dekoker. In the mean time he is also at liberty.
I have the honor to be, 1
in IR '
Your moll obedient, humble servant, eal
THOMAS HISLOP, ne<
•jjj' Lt. Col. Cummanding. to
' In a letter to Mr. Tefchema'ket, Col. H. fays, wi.
; that he had learnt, with concern, that he had ex- abi
perieneed a degree of severity and hsrihntli, from &c
I a Mr. Haniett, who was sent with a detachment do
of troops to arrest him. " 1 wi(h,'' adds the Co. inj
lonel, " you may be convinced such conduct has wa
en merited my utmost displeasure, and will ever be thi
wholly unauthorised and difeountenanced by me ; cic
and I am equally persuaded that the pfficer who so.
frnt the detachment, never had an idea, that the ci.
as to perform, would have been fulhed ed
if ' oeeedings of the pcrfont before mention- pl<
u are at liberty, Sir, to return to your fa- w;
y there remain without molestation." be
LONDON.
J L>«. t' OK KING'S BENCH, MAY 7.
row-' The King v. Ryd IVakt.
ings The Attdrney General moved for the judgment ot
and of tie court on the defendant.
little Mr. Jutlice Afhhurft pronounced sentence as sol- P
lows— m
ided '« Ryd Wake, You have been tried and found ,v
tnan guilty upon an indictment that has been preferred j ll
: lad against you, which ilates, that on , the 29th ot 11
neri- October, in the 36th year of his present majesty's w
the reigo, his majetly was going t<? the Houft of Peers j 1 !
tion. to meet hit Parliament ; and that you, being a 1
diffi- person of an evil d.lpofition, and also a great num- 1
edu- ber of others, beinjr persons of violent and fediti- P
them ous mind* and difaffefted to his majesty, and in- 11
ealth tending to break and disturb the peace, and to in- a
The fult and vilify our lord the king, and to move and t]
ds to incite Vis majesty's fubjedts to hatred and contempt
they of his majeily, did, for the purposes aforefaid,
to be unlawfully and riotously meet together to disturb a
land- the peace of our lord the king, and afiembled round '
hit coach, and made a very great riot, tumult and 1
>f the difturbancc, by hissing, hooting and groaning, and c
with used divers indecent, contemptuous and disorderly u
ikers geftnres ; and did riotously, tumultuoufly asd fedi- '
under tioufly"life and proclaim aloud the following fuan- [
rit tlu cllous words—No IVar Down with George—No
ice cf George, and did for a long time continue thus riot-
ts for oufly assembled, and committing Hie fame out- r
>t. rages. i
bat is " Upon this indiflment you have been found 1
live in guilty on very full and clear evidence. This insult, 1
those which you have offered to your fovertign, is of a i
which very flagitious and atrocious nature, and (hews a <
rhoolt very bad and malignant heait. Indeed, if there 1
age is had been any wilh tu fticteh the laws to their ut- i
id ae• most rigour, it may be doubtful, whether the crime
alone, of which you liave beeo' [y.vilty might ,not liave a
wml mCunted loy?, cii-HS o! a much deeper die; for it
has a man.ifeft tendency to withdraw the affrSion
of hit inajefty's fu'-jeCts fiom their lawful sove
reign, and l© excite the m >b to and ie
bellion. This is the return you have made for the
prote&ion you have enjoyed under th- fcufpiciotis
government of the bell nf kings, and under the
mildest and most excellent fvftem of lr.ws. 1 wo Id
have you remember, that there is perhap* 110 other
kingdom in the world, where, for futh an offence,
rhe offender's life wouid not have paid the forfeit.
In the affidavit which you read, tn mitigation of
punishment, when, you were lift brought into
f court, yon endeavored to (he" that the contempt.
. uous gestures and behaviour imputed to you to
wards bis majefly, We)*owi gto your ihort fight"
; ednefs, and that your eagerness to gratify yourcu
i -riofiry in feeing his majelty, occafior.ed those mvo
- luntary dittortions she countenance, which might
be coollruei into contemp.uous gestures. This /-
t does not seem to be very natural. But supposing
. j it were the fact, your zeal and eagerness to fee the
y ' king did not necessarily occasion your utteiing the
i j word* imputed to you, namely,—Down •with
t : George—no George—no War. And yet these words
! are sworn by two witnesses to have been spoken by
i_ | you, and often repeated. And even you yourfc'if
. 1 do not dare upon oath to deny the fpeakinjj of
! them. You have not dared to fwrar that you d-i
never utter these w k -rds ; but you fav it can never
be thought that you (hould speak them. This is
, a very Angular way of denying them.
j "You have said further, that none of these
•g words have been proved to be spoken by you.
e What your idea of proof is, [ do not pretend to
. know, but this I know, that two persons have con
curved in pofnively fweaiing that you did speak
j. these words; and the Court and Jury are equally la«
lisfied that you did.
" You next urge as a matter of compaflion.
that you are a msi ried man, and that you and your
wife depend on your daily labour for support. It
o would have been well if that thought had influenced
mind~before you committed the flagitious a&
S, proved upon you. ©rTe i» TorTyt4.*«-tr '»-*+™
;s the innocent to fuffer with the guilty. That.how-
J. ever, will fometitnes necessarily happen in the course
3 t -of human events, but the claims of yoiu country
have a much louder call than thofc of any indivi
to dual whatever ; and I hope when you think here
e- after on the misery you have brought on your in—
noxent family, by your qwn mifconduft, that it will
ig operate as a ohetk to restrain you frtrm future mif
as chief, and will iikewife be a warning to the reft ot
fr the world.
if. "It now becomes my duty to pronounce the
ild sentence of the Court ; which is, that you be con*
to mitted to the cultody of the keeper ol the Pleniten
te. tiary house in arid for the county of Gloticefter,
res and be kept to hard labour for the space of five
by years ; and within the firlt three months of that
00 time, that you stand in and upou the pillory for
he one hour, between the hours of eleven and two
aft o'clock in the afternoon, in fjme public street in
to Gloucelter, on a market day ; and that you give
vill sureties in locol. for your good behaviour for the
of term of ten years to be computed from the expira
be- tion of the said five years ; and that you be further
vVr inipfif<JH«Ttrtt'Tsß find thei'aia lureties." 7"
in • . ' :
I VERMONT,
the Bennington, July 6, 179-6-
vlr. Defcriptlon of Q newly discovered Cavern, an the
ty. North Eiijlend-of Mount Anthony, in this town.
Some time last year a hole was discovered in the
fide of the welt mountain in Bennington, usually
it, ealled Mount Anthony, (ituated on the east lide,
near the north end of the mountain, large ei.ough
to admit with lome difficulty, the body of a man,
ays, widening in itsdefccnt, and apparently of confider
ex- able depth, as wasjudged by the dropping of (tones,
rom &c. into it". Aftei a while fume nen ventured
lent down by the means of ropes, asHar as the firlt land-
Co. ing from the mouth ; when from the dropping of
has water, &c. within, which founded loud and hollow,
be they supposed the Cavern to be considerably fpa
ire ; cious. In the course of the last spring, an hospital
who for the lmall-po.x being fixed in a house in the vi
the cinity of the mountain, several of the infefled vifit
llied ed the cave, when by the help of they etc -
ion- plored the firlt apartment, and found a partition
r fa- wall reaching from the top to within fix inches of
bottom. By liltening at this aperture, the found cf
the dropping of water within, give the idea that a
much larger room than that explored lay; beyond,
which would afford a fliiking view, if pofiihje to
get into it. This induced numbers, and among
T)cn , t others the editor of this Gazette to vifitit, having
previously provided themselves with necessary im
-1 sol- p' emcn t® to remove obftru&ions : at this period the
mouth of the Cavern was about eighteen inches by
aund ,wo eet over > t^e a tree ,r 4
*rred medium ofdefcent to the firft landing, which is a-
D f bout fifteen feet perpendicular from the mcuth,
■Itv's widening as it defeends. By a pdeket conipafs it
Peers appeared, that the direction of the Cavern was from
|ip a hence, about two points south of weft. A pretty
num- descent of about eigfit feet led to a narrow
editi- P a sf a 8 e ~ear twenty-four feet in length, the roof
j n in forr.e places lofty, in others so low as to occasion
Q;n a man to Hoop. Here the partition befote raen
, sn( ] tioned is situated, arid was found to be too hard to
emi)t be wrought on with the bar or a hand lledge.
-said With these implements however, and the addition of
ilturb 3'l 0e > a pass a g e under the partition was dug in a
ound ' JOUt an hour, fufficient to admit a man to crtwl
t through on his belly, and in that manner tj&jjj*. i
all( j company past. Here an arched concave is
■derly irregular form, and in the loflieft point, w
1 fedi- was ascended to with difficulty, with the 0
ftan- faplin pruned of its limbs, thirty-five te '' r
jfo The whole length of this apartment i f 5
; riot- f cet i 'ts breadth irregular, frem that
out- room to a fix feet entry, its direction * ' ,' r V"
and south. To explore the Cavern fa'
found here necessary to ascend lo a projeft"«P ,
insult, rocks of the passage, about ten
i of a from whence two holes were fiW
lews a enough to admit a man's head wh/ t,r
and frparated by a large itone
ir ut-' inches diameter. By hoLing /cant
crime and looking through tue otU r » an ® -
ave a- room or cavity W2t drfcovcr/. *
for it at the end o. c it-: after anha'-'r gpppWj,h- bat and fledge, one ;be ho,fS was rctlde i rfd so
r":;.?W e rthaawhen differed, a* to adm.M Vejd
'—11 nun so crowd through, and with a little fu'
-*r tttnion a«d considerable difficulty of patty, ><drat.
;"c Xle company that fir* discovered it crowded depofi
throueh. Immediately after palling this strait, <• prema
beil (haned apartment presents itfelf, the roof 10 po ltive
highest altitude forty feet at Waft, -fifty from -übth
the floe# of the other apartment. This room u fecreU
twenty-four feet long, a',, at the end, in a I nbun
a little northward of weft, has a narrow low passage, whde
of about four or five feet, through which the cam-
pany crawled to another apartment, aboft twenty dUlruft
Four feet in length, beyond wh.ch there is a covered t.ons o
way of seventeen feet, »hich terminates< „e Gave. M n
The curiosities exhibited by the different degrei. i» fg
,f pctrif.au,n, baffle defection 1 het walls -
are in many places as smooth as polilhed marble, and fjch
5* as if encrusted with ice :in fk*. «h. H
appearance of flowing curtains, folded below, ap- wrtl be
pear peculiarly magnificent. In others cttf.ous fret Waal
woik and etchings of various kinds P rcf '"| to vl !"[ ' • „ n6
in every apartment pipes or tubes refemb mg « r '
hana from the roof and jutUngs, of every length Keput
and fize,from the eighth of an inch or two inc .
or more diameter, and from three inch,, to three
■feet long, the lefTer for. perfeflly hollow, he large Do
very porous, and hard in proport.on to f.z«. At
,he end of many of them the pendant drops of wa- J
■J, from the region of the lights, prefenKd a blood
lustre equal to the brilliance of a diamond. U °"
The-racks of some animal or other was thought valoil.
to be perceived on a bank of fine clay in the Caver,, the Jo
and the entire feulMsone of some fmal! creature most the tr
probably of the squirrel ki:id, was found in the third barb*
apartment, on the firft visit to it, but no part ot the 1
Cave anoears to be the .efidence of any living crea pcara
r Crfne
turc at preient. . ,
The forgoing is given from recolle&ion, an, 1 'noug
may possibly be corre« ; a fuller or mbre correct eoura
account would be received with thanks, atld handed ganti
. terror
to the public.
enter
BY THIS DAY's MAILS. tw
ten h
NEW-YORK, Augnft i. "!"«
ACTION ON THE RHINE. afrau
We have not been able to trace the accounts on T!
this fubjeft to any thing farther than the report of laugl
Capt. Glad, us dated in crur last. Letters from neral
Paiis, as late as the lith of June, we are inform- havif
ed, fay nothing refpedling fueh intelligence. Our lanth
papers (The Courier L'Egalite) are not later than our (
those by the Brifeis. D. Adv. them
Translated for the New-Totk Gazette. pear
Friday evening arrived at this port, tha (hip Fair as so
American, Captain Gladd, in 41 days from
» Nantz.—The Editor has been favoured with a L'ar
regular file of Parit papers from May 20, to
June 12. (which is several days later than the
<-ec«unts by the Brifeis) —Exiradls follow :
PARIS, June 10. —LONDON, May 23. F
There is at present a considerable fermentation pani
here. The Miniller is much disconcerted by "he from
prodigious fuccefe of the army of Italy.—We are to F
apprehenfiye of feeing England soon abandoned treat
even by Aultm. and obliged to sustain alone the armi
Butden of the War-, wh.cn wilTbesome more formi- Mar
dable, aj the French will be able to npply their torb
whole indultry and resources to the encreafing of Eve
their navy. by (
Such is the uncertainty ef events, that the funds the
have fallen within 8 days from 66 1-2 to 60 per to r
cent. 'hei
A period like the present is not likely to feciire of !
to the Court, elections in favour of Mr. Pitt— at
What is still more embarrnfling to him, is that the kn<"
Bank has jull refuted him I,ioocSool. to supply his Ca;
present wants. set
The KING of GREAT-BRITAIN's PRO the
CLAMATION, for dissolving the present Par get
liament, and calling a new one. Ed
GEORGE REX, ' im
paving rhought it proper, with the advice of
our Privy Council, to dissolve the present Parlia
ment, which remains now prorogued to the Jth ot E:
July next, we have for this effeif made public this
our Royal Proclamation ; and the-faid Parliament
\ is he»eby difTolved. The Lords spiritual and tenji
poral, Knights, Citizens arid BurgefTes, and the ca
Repiefentatives for Counties and Burghs, ate pr
therefi. e excused from mretingon Tuefdav the sth ci
of July. It being our desire and refolutton to th
meet our people and have their advice in Parliament ca
as foan as possible : We hereby make known to all h:
our loving fubjefts, our royal will and pleasure, to pc
convokf a pew Parliament ; declaring also, that by qt
theadvu-eof our Privy Codtu il, we this d: y w
given to our Chancellor of G. Britain, to fu
expedite writs in form for calling a new Parlia- if
ment, to bedr date the 2lft of May inft. and be of el
foTceon Tuesday the 12th of July next. p
God save ti>c King. r<
The Coach in jvhich his Majofty rode to the g
House of Peers, was a fort of moveable fortrefs, 1 si
conftruded in a manner fufficient to refill every fpe- f.
ties of attack, and so hermetically slofcd up, as to
conceal the Monarch from the view of his faithful
fuhjefts. n
The King hascreated fifteen new Peers, and two si
Earls—Admiral Hood and Bridport are ip the v
number of the firft. i
The Compiler of the " L'Ami de Loix," who
would b« happy in effeding a revolution in the C
island of Malta, is much ■ ndid by the French 1
governments fnfTeiing a diplomatic Agent to reiide t
, at Pans, from the Grand Matter of the order of 1
' Malta. t
Mr. Ochs, Tribune of the state of Basle, is
arrived here ; he comes in behalf of the Council i
of that Caaton, to confer with the Directory on I
the fubjefts which have lately in some degree dif- !
turbed the harmony which the Helvetic body, and
particularly ths Canton of Basle, wi(h to prfiferve
with the French republic. Mr. Ochs is elieeme'd
a mini of good r enfe, prudence, and intelligence,
and well acquainted with the interests ot his
Country. H-' is to be introduced !o the
to dav, and we have -eafon to tliink the clouds
which have arisen on 'his fnbject, will be easily
• diflipated, by their mu ual, candid, and amicable
exp'auatvons. A circjmftanse which confirm! thi^
i .g,.
preti'Aion, i« recal of Balfal, formerly rector of thanked 1
Ve'failies, and hitherto entruftfd with a mission to been give
fjafie, in eonfrquene« of that fatal tyftera which it is the v
iillrafted the firft ineafures of'goverr-meu. ; h!»
deposition has been announced in the public papers our rt-pu
prematurely, as it is only a few days since hi was 1 court ot
positively recalled. BafTal was holding committees 13 ®
with the ci-devant Marquis de Potera, Lebrun, his l' avl:, g
secretary, formerly fworil of the Revolutionary ( France,
Tribunal, and a certain ex-conventional ferjeant, ;
whose name is pretty well known. It appears R e P" lf
that the effect ot these meetings has been to create 1 ia tion,
dillruft and doubt in our government, of the inten- j 1,1
tions of the Svvifs. \^\ a
It now appears that thisjealoufy was unjust and j } rcnc '
1 ill founded ; and we.have a right to hope, that by | n K e " tel
i reducing to nothing the authors and contrivers of I . P'°
i such dangerous plots, the ties of friemifiiip and i'• *,c %
good neighbourhood between, the two republics, j r „
will be strengthened in a manner not to be broken. ,
t We already know that the Canton of Schwits, 3;e "
• yielding to the votes of the majority of the Can- ■- cvera
« tons, has consented to acknowledge the Fiench P" weis
« , ot conv
1 Rt P ubhc - to a cc:
e Extract of Gen. Jourdon's answer to the Arch J I^ tIVL^ tf
Duke Charles, taken from the Journal of. An- | IW, "£ c
1 has beci
" Butchers, yoa with then for more human to
a bload ? Well, monster, againll my will I will cause ltltute
it to be shed —1 vvill only attack you once—but the
it valour of Ftenrhmen will tit ike with aftonilhment .
1, the four quarters of the wo:ld—you {hall pay to Um^ cll
ft the troops, whom I command, the tribute of your naH j' o
d barbari: y." tide of
ie This highflown metfage has to# much the ap-
s pearance of boslting to induce us to believe it
General Jourdan's. It is neither the flylc nor the 11
,1 thought of a commander, confident of his own
St courage and the valor of his troops—it is the tfi- _
;( 1 gantic bnmbaft of a Bathaw, endeavoring tc 1
terror by empty threats. When Darius '
enter Scythia, the King of the Barbarians si
five arrows, a frog, a mouse and a bird ;»» see , '
which the great king found terrible ; had I
ten him a letter, fays RouflTeau, the more
ning it had been, the less would Darius have b
afraid ; he would only have laughed at it. _
311 The Arch Duke Charles would no doubt have '*
of laughed at being treated as a butcher by the Ge- ra! j o j|
m neral of a nation, which may be reproached w,th
n- having shed but too much blood. Those who gal
ur lantly fi«ht us in arms are not butchers, they are ma|J j
an our enemies : let lis be fatisfied with conquering
them, and let us not insult them.—lt would ap
pear that our Generals have not so good fecici.ities
iir as soldiers for fu
im Extracts from the French Paper, ( ,
1 a L'ami de la Justice and la VERiTE.of the 24th P°"
to Prairial (June 12.)
he ITALY. Affer
ROME, May .4.
Four Plenipotentiaries of his Holiness, accom- . .
on panied by the Spanilh AmbatTsdor, havejiift set out (
he from here. It is presumed two of them are going
are to Paris to negociat %* ft ace—the two others to
led treat with General Btionaparte for a fufpeulion ol c >U(1(
he arms. The last arc the Senator Rczzonico, arid
ni- Marquis Matfini. His h iiinefs has ifTnvti »n i4iA
eir torbidding any emigration from his dominions—
of Every hour fomi couriers arrive here; they arc sent (| j
' by the governors of the towns »n the frontieis, and
nds the senators and magistrates of different provinces, .
per to receive the Pope's orders refpe&ing the conduct j.
they are to pbferve in the present critical situation
nre of Italy. The Senate held on the loth, a meeting
t— at Bologne ; bqt what was resolved, H not >C ' de. i
the known. OnthtJ2lh, the Senators MaUafia and
his Caprara, and the Confulter of the Senate, Pitlorini,
set out in a caniage with four horses—they took
10- the road to Modena, probably to meet the French . j
far general. A Cornier was at the fame time ditpatch- ~,
ed to Rome to the Ambassador of the Senate, who
immediately had a lons audience with the Pope. ,
• of SWITZERLAND.
trlia- FRIBOURG, May 23.
bot ExtraS of a Dispatch from Field Matjhnl Count de
this Wurmfer, to the Helvetic Body at Basle. 'ami
ment Cfntli-mfn,
tern- " Your answer of the 26th April, is by no means, I ,
the calculated to remove my uneasiness the •
are prefervatiou of the line of Neutrality ; tcv -
ejth cions are so much the more grounded, that ! c- ,r
n to that time, I have learnt the French have forweu .
"ment camp in the environs of Brifdruth, without you
to all having deigned, any way to oppose it. ' 'he la
•e, to portant poll lam entrusted with, obliges n-<: toie
it by quire for my own security, other guarantees bences
sd: y writings; for the enemy in the enthusiasm of their 0
in, to success in Italy, will soon think thimfelves allowid, n
'arlia- if it favours their design, to break the neutrality,!
be of especially when there will be nc other barrier to op- P u
pi.fe them but indeterminate words. I therefore
request you gentlemen, and for the last time, to ' Ul
9 the gather on the frontiers means fufficient to repulse '
rtrefs, force by force; without which I (hall take all the
y fpe- fivere measures which ciicumltances will require." |Uj
as to ExtraS of a letter from Basle, May 28. ;
lithful " Our situation becomes evety day mote and
moreala.ming ; the troops which our Cantons have
d two sent, are returning in great nnmbers into our city ; a . c
ip the which has rendered it-neceflary to form three Camps >
in the environs. j .
' who " The Magistrate in compliance with Field Mar- j
n the thai Wurmfei's request, has sent an cxprefs to the ; '
'rench French General, to desire him not to go beyond P.'
reiide the limits of their Frontiers, that hostilities might :
ler of be avoided ; Tlie Swiss being constrained to oppose j '
the most aflive resistance to the least insult. The
is ji(H Fiencii Generals returned a very polite answer, at
'onncil faring the Helvetic Body, they might rely on the
>ry on drift observance of the neutrality ; that those col-
ee dif- leClions of men had no other end in view than to
ly, and prevent smuggling, and cause the imposts to be re
rfiferve guTarly paid on that fionlier.
leeme'd P. S. As thevCotirier departs, the Mai! from a
igenee, Italy arrives—Report circulates, that the city ot
of his M antua has furtend«red to the French, by capiiu
re&ory lation.
clouds Translated for the Daily /idvertifer.
: eulily HAGUE, April 26. '
micable A note from the nair.i'.ler of Portugal.was refter- '
day read in the Convention, in which, after having !
thinked the Convention for aftftatiae which had futile nnfr
been give.i to a Poriugucfe «t!Tel, heabferves, that them air.o
it is the wiili of hij court to prefeivc the good tin- encounter
denlai'ding which at present fubfills between it and to treat,
our republic. We have fren with pleasure the certain re
. court of Li(bon thus recognizing our government, we canno
It is a matter of alfonifhment, that Spain, after miiponors
having djawn Portugal into the coalition again!! In.ian ei
France, by obliging it to furniili a contingent of <h< m, wi
i troops, (houl! have concluded a peace with that cotnauHK
; Republic, without inclurftog in it her ally and re- militia gu
lation, b/whuh inattention, the commerce of Por- the pro!e
tugal has been fubjeited to frequent lofles,Several the Hate,
! of her merchantmen having been captured by the bidlandii
French. The court i« propetly pnni(h«d for hav- aflual lin
ing entered into a coalition from which it could not at which
■ j have promised ijfelf any particular advantage. Such ers, as ir
| it the gratitude of the great. teq.ience
| , \ . May 8. er*
! The fittings of the Bntavian National AfTembly, the lndi
have been for these fume days pall very important, their mi
' Several motions were-made tending to augment the the talki
! powers of the assembly, and to regulate the mode rainc, b
of convoking it. The business been been referred within tl
to a committee for examination. Difcufiii>ns re- fioners o
1 lative to the arming of the citizens, occalinned a from cm
j fining of seven hours on the 6.h inft. The aiming i; seems,
has been decreed, there is in confeqnence, an ad- thinking
n drefi to the Batavian nation, and letters to the con- quell.
• itituted authorities upon the fame fubje£t. in the a!
e May 15. coghe,
t The Batavian National Affembfy has been a long ulual an
time engaged upon two important questions. the Cop
id. Whether Bournonvillc (hould have the com- the ncx
rrand of thr Batavian army agieeably to the ar- coifimill
ticle of the treaty, which declares that the com-, the Pre
: t lined for: es of the tw» Republics (hould be com- ihe
' )C nanded by a Freilch General. .gia. rei
2d. Whether the combined army (hould be im- b
nediately put in motion. The latter proposition flopped
was decreed in the fitting of »he 12th of May. Mufcoj
;_ 1. v.. th.* • Republic, Noel, has and ent
no tit the Batavian Conven- were tc
' ;«gjW em that the PruiTtatW Nation
*:h - I*,plained of some priva that it
£c o ■ -ie Eetns, an English that th
'■ -Hiy, as a violation of that th l
a-i. • note has been 'sent to 1 his tl
the commifficn of foreign aflaiis. clarilig
Upon a rejort from the commissions »f confede- The cc
ration and of foreign affairs united, it was proposed in cons
a j to the Conveition to decree that the army of the the ca
fiate, when h the field, (hould b? under the com- fuperir
mand of G<seral Boarnonvile, who might at all protest
times march them where he thought proper, he by the
giving an account of his operations to the commit- pence
tee of confutation, to whom also he (hould apply fair, o
for fupphes fur the troops. The dikuffion was from t
. oollponed until to-morrow. It "
'• h May 2J. _ _ this d.
The day before yesterday. the Batavian National
AfTembly kdd an ele&ion for a new President, for
. the succeeding fortnight. There appeared a ma
jority 'in faiour of Citizen Rutger John Schim- f u fficie
melpennins, deputy from one of the departments Wc
of the city of Amiterda n. His predecefTor, D. and h:
l( C- De Leuvo, eould not complete his term on ac- States
°, count .of »» ext renie indisposition, his duties vrere P erm "
performed by the lall President, Bilker, who at
Uv " iFe (itting'of thej2inor «J, ll*llt wTletr
to finefhib ondu£\ of the pieceding night approv- pious;!
'"! Ed of by a very large majority. poorr
ai The quettion was, a diflurbance or arm or lio'
ed iiifui 1 e£tioi , which had taken place in the city behol.
. of AmiUtdam: and also refpefting the meafurcs
''. ,P laken under the direction ot the President of
"" 8 National -\iTembly, for the re-e(Lbli(hment of 01 '
Ye' •
' , der m the city.
3 .". A partof the cannoneers of the cfty militia had
committed such exeelfct in knocking down he ci
nC ," tizens, a»d in other violences, that the municipal
'"l ity h'ad, an ordinance publish d the 10th of
tc . h " May, directed them to be difarmrd ; the confe- «
w 0 quei'ce wis, that the fame cannoneers to the nunj- own
C " ber ot 300 collected together, entered the city- vall °
hotel, forced the Council Chamber, threatened the °ccu
■ members, and above all, put the President's life in »' e
° e danger, rtfufing all obedience to the constituted e
authoiities. They broke open the prison, and took 1111
from thence two prisoners belonging to the city
teans, , r there some months,
tiio: rally wounded a peacea- '1
- -.'So I 1 jke open the lioufe of .
• a former member of a r ' !
: smprifoned for dlllutbing the c 1
>'?" 4 f the city-horse, and also a par- ..
!B " v.. of rv, . w«(f eTufed to suppress the D, f
eU tircumllances some mrmbers '
of the municipality of Arofferdam, went to demand
1 a military force, to prevent the defttu&ion of pub
( 9 lie order with which the city was threatened 5 the r
r y * : provincial adminillration "of Holland, to whom be
longed the right of difpofuig of the troops in its 9
ree ' S jurifdiftion, for the preservation of peace and the
j*,? suppression us and revolts, applied to
T'! the president for his consent, to employ on this
' , C , prefling occasion a part of the garrison of the
! ulre - j Hague, fur without the advice of the President of 1
i * the National Aifembly, this could not be done.
6 , a " The President gave his confrnt, and rendered an
account of his conduct at the opening of the fit-
C " yi tings. Citizen Vreede, Valences and some others, n J
" ampS ; wish.a to throw a censure upon the President, giv
,»» i ing as their reasons among others, that the civil
/" I broils and c'ontefts of citizens, were not to be fup
,to ® I pre (Ted by a military force. This was not the fen- r
y0 "/ timen.ts ps a majority of the assembly ; they agreed V
r that the principle of the cor.ftitution, and under
° P^ C ! which the president aded, applied flke the one un
' , , C der consideration, to a cafe where the lives of the i;
AL ? constituted authorities had been put in the moil im a
'r" , rainent danger by «n armed force. A majority of
°K 69 to 2 7> fnliy jiiflified the conduct of the prefi
an id who, during a long and animated difcuflion,
° rt ' preserved hi< place with the greatest composure,
f and only replied a few words at the moment they
31 it Un ( were proceeding to take the queflion.
'capiiu- —.
SAVANNAH, July is-
WE promised our readers in our last, some par
ticulars on the fubjeft of the failure of the late trea
-9 vefter- ty. The Indians we are informed w: e prejudiced
r having in the nation ags'.nft the diipofal o£ the lands, by
■s f'4L i
1 / -
I some unfriendly periods ; and report.s declared to
I them atr.oi g » variety cf others, that they were to
enccunter tilt Georgia militia when they carr.e down
totrest. Whether this was the re*fjn or not, of ,
certain regulations ot the Federal comm : llione*s,
we cannot fay ; tut by those regulations, the cora
miiponurs of liie flaje were forbidden to enter th^
In mil encampment, or hold conv-riations witli
ih'm, without the pafi]«>rt or permit ofoneofthe
lOtr.tn.flioners of the United State# ; and a fm 11
militia guard, which the Executive had ordered foe
the pruteflion of the Indian articles, procured by
the ftatr, for the purpo'fes of the ttcaty, were for
bid landing with their arms, although'within the
aAnal limits and ordinary jtirifilitlion of the slate—-
at which offence was taken by the state com million*
ers, as infringing the rights and leflenintf the con
sequence of the state, and debarring the ccmmifii.>~-
cr» froYn jhe nieanv.j'f cot" dialing the.affection of
the Indians, and thereby prucuring the objedl of
their mifilot). Jt alio a (.years that the t r
the talks was at full withii) the garrifan ot" Cole
rainej but was af.erwards altered to Muf-o: he,
I within the Indian encampment, vvhete the commil
- fioriers of Georgia had no necefs, wii hour a permit .
i from one of the Federal commHli..n«rs,,and to which
; it seems, our (tate commiffioneis did nut condefccnj
- thinking, it beneath the dignity of the state, to re
- quell. The Indians drew. op.'.heir ;a'k in writi"g,
in the alfence of the llate commiiSohtu, at Mul
coghe, and ciid not deliver ii viva vac., is evet 1
j ulual among the Indians, but delivered it thiou h
the CopimilTioiieis of the United Sta'.esj akho.u: h
i- the next day, they gave a tall; viva %>occ, to the
- coifimilTtoucrs of the United States, m answer to
i-. the President's i.m.iiation.
' The Indian# in their anfwerto the of Ceor
.gia. refufe to gne up their lands, in another effort
i- by the commiffioeers ot Georgia, they were
n (lopped by the Federal piquet j and after reaching
Mufcoghe, under the auspices of a Federal offi er,
18 and entering on the fubjedl us the purchase, they
i- were told by Aleck Cornels, a chief in the Cretk
ii*B Nation, and one of the United States Interpreters,
a that it was ufelefrto fay ar.Jr more about the land )
9i that they came determined not to part with it, and
if that they did ilot want to hear any more about it.
to This the Birdtail King afterwards CO' firmed, de- ,
elating that their refufal was fixed on in the nation.
e- The eommifiioners of this jlaiehave, we are told,
:d in consequence, protelled againlt the proceedingsof
be the cpmmiffioners of the United States, and the
n- fuperintendant of Ifidian affairs : and have further
all proieftedagalnft the payment Or liability of payment
he by the (late of Gtergia, ot any (hare of the ex
it- pence attending the treaty, as not having had a
>ly fair, open, and hanorable opportunity of purchase
ras from the Indians.
It is said the law of the United States, inserted in
this day's piper, for regulating trade and imercouxfe
with the Indian tribes, arrived a! Coleraine dujint the
: treaiy, and was very forcibly explained by the Com
mifiioners of the United State*. Had the Indians been
M " difpoftd to cede their lar.ds prior thereto, this iow was
m * fufficient to make them retrifl.
Nts We hope our citizens will endeavor to pre/erve oeice
D. and harmony, by refpedling the la* f of .the United
j C - States ; but how far the frzi'ties of* human nati re will
„ r( , permit our,citizens op the frontier to refrain from , -ifT
t i*g the line after their own property, and pcrjta'ps witl -
in theirview,.*' ■tu-.iM-U';..n mt' J-— - 1
"wTleTTtnat propenyTtlay be th? only negro, er only
JV " plough-horse, and of coitrfj the only dependence of a
poor man, with a numerous family si r their fubfi etvre;
rm or how far they will p-rmit his neighbours cjiietly to
•ilv behold this industrious man's being confined nil ede
)rt's ral Garrison, and earritd to Noith or South-Carolina
k for Vial remains yet in embryo.
Philadelphia, Augujl 2.
a d j, ~"
, c ; ixtraß /rem th.' Gixte'.te Trcncatfe of New-fork.
Da ] Jffonday, Augnft I.
iof By the J riend of jifiice $3* Truth (French Jou'r
mfe. nal of Paris) of .the i 2th June, we have the soU
um- lowing details, ill. New victories in Italy 2d. In
-itv- vafion of Venetian territory by the Fiench, who
| t j ie occupied Verona, Pefchiira, and 3d, Many new
fe in viftaries' obtained by the French ttpon the Rhine.
uted We will give fucccflively the particulars of tkefe
took in the sequel of this paper.
Nt Arrivals at New-Torkt
acea- Ship Fair American, Glad, Nantz, 40
~ e Donna Anto, Philadelphia 3
0 f a Brig Vigilant, — , Jamaica 23
. t ) )e Sch'r. Hannah and Na*icy, Norfolk 4
ar Two Brothers, Dermot, Baliimore 3
! t j le Bttg Rebecca, Alden, Tobago 30
nbers Ship Fair American, Capt. Glad, from
Nanta : left there the following veffeU.
m Dub . Hope, Marbleheai
• the Minerva, T. Paine, Charleston
The following veflelf failed from Nantz, on the
in its 19th of June:
.d the Bn£ Susannah, Horn, Philadolyhia
ied to Speedwell, Wetherell, New-York
nth ; 3 Lydia, Speek, t do.
f the the 281,1 J une l^e a ' r A me " can wal
'cnt of by a brig Which fired fevcral (hot at her, without
(hewing her colours ! by superior failing the Fair
d aii American scaped being troubled by htr.
he fit- Spoke (loop Induflry, from Boflon to Marti
others, nique, lat. 31, long. .
t,gj y - forty Dollars reward. '
e etvil
befup- Ran a'way,
lie len- the 10th April last, a NEGRO MAN, named
agreed V_/ Jack, aged about 39 years—about 5 feet 6 inched
under high, the fingers on one of his hands very much contrail
cd.
one mi- Whoever will return said negro to the fubferibsr, li-f*
1 of ipg in Snifex county, state of Delaware, lhall receive thtt
noft im above reward, R.AL.PH. ROBINSON.
ority of Aug. 1 ,
e prefi- """" ' BY AN ARTIST,
fcuffion, Reftdent at Mr. Oelkrs's Hooel,
rtey MINIATURE LIKENESSES
\ RE taker, and executed in that elegant and delicau
xl ftilc, which is so necessary to render a Miniature P»c»
" ture an intereltiug jeWel. .
He will warrant a Itrotig and indisputable refem
£ D as. blance i and he takes the liberty to lay betor: the public
of thii place his moll earnest intention to delerve their pa
late trea- tron ,g e j,y his bell endeavors to plesfe,
rejudtced . 3, specimens arc to be feuc.
ands, by May la. ITreasury of the United States.
NOTICE is hereby given to all perions who are or
may be Creditor* of the United States, for any fumt I
of the FurnUA Debt, «r Stock, tearing a present intcnf of ft*
per centum per annum. '
rft, That purfuartt to an A<s of Congress paHed on the
28th day ef April, 1796, intitlcdan a<ft in addition to as 0
aft, intituled " An aift making further prevision for tlx 1
support of public cr.dit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the said debt or Aock will be reimbursed and. '
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends 0
" to be made on thelalldays of March, June and Septem
" ber for the present year, and from the year onethopfand
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year oprflfhou
" sand eight hundred & eighteen inclufive,at th« rate of 1
one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of 0
, " Deccmbsr for the present from the year one "
" thousand fever, hundred and ninety-seven, to the year '
<jr.» thousand eight hundred and seventeen at
" the rate of three and one half per centam irponthe ori
f ginal capital; and by a dividend to be made ob the last
" day of December, in the year one thoufend eight hun- "
"died and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then a He- I
" quate, according to the contrail, for the final redemp
" tion of the said stock."
id. All diftin<sHon • between payments oft account of
Tntercfi and Principal being thus abolilhed by the eftablilh- r
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abovs de
ferred, it has become necessary to vary accordingly the f
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the pnblic. „
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
is established for all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation of this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that g
I of in
do make, conjlitute and appoint
cf my true and lawful At'
me, and in my name, to receive the dividends ivbcb
or shall be payable aceording to /aw, on the (here tht' ,
ilock) flanding in my name in the books of (here describing ,
books of the Treasury or the Comraiffioner of L«ansi
where the flock is credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power p
attorney is to continue) xvitb poiver also an attorney or attor
nies under him, for that purpose to make andfubjiitute, and to do all
laivful r,3s requifttefor qffe£ting tbepremifes, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that my said Attorney or bitfubjlitute ,Jbali lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof.
■In Wiintfs hereof I have hereunto Jet my Hand and Seal the
day of in the year
Sealed and Delivered
in presence of, :
BE IT KNQJVNt that on the day of c
before me personally came a
•within named and acknonAedged tbe above letter of attorney to %e a
(lis aB and deed. • t
In tejiimony tu hereof 1 have hereunto Jet my Hand and affix- {
ed Scat tbe day and year lafl afor said, c
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, thistwen- r
tieth day of July 179.6, pursuant to Aire&ions 2
from the Secretary of the Treasury. (
SAMUEL MEREDITH, >
Irea/mrer of the' United States. <
July %$* &stl J. (
Plans of the city of Philadelphia, !
: Including the Northern Liberties and diltri<a of !
SOU TRW ARK ;
Published, and fold by ,
benjamin davies,
No. 68, High street, , J
( Price one dollar.) '
THIS plan is s6 inches square, and has teen en
graved by one of the fir# artists In the city, from a late '
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam- '
phlet with each plan, giving " some account of tbe \
city, it* population, trade, government, &c.
July 19 ta fcftf _
Samuel Richardet,
T> ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia;
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the i
daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the ufuai refrefhments,
will at all tima be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the raoft
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
productions of tho Season.
Large and fnaall Parties, or Angle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Coliati#n is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at tho bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniflied, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every ether
requisite. <
Samuel Richardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
larg«; acd with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre
fer ve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly uonored. ,
Philadelphia, April 19. e0
Philip Nicklin & Co.
have for SALS, s
Souchong (
Hyson Skin / ]
Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS ' <
Hyioa and \
Imperial
Yellow Nankeens
Ccina Ware, aflTarted in Boxes and Chests ,
Quicksilver
Bandtn&d Racdkerchiefs of excellent quality ih !
chests
London Market } MADEIRA WINE
London particular in pipes, liogfheads, &
t New-York Market j quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogfceads
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in sheets :
3 Calks of Cutlery assorted
A few chests of Manchester Goods, assorted thick- 1
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
■ < 3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
K Tierces Virgi»ia Snake-noot. '
Nails assorted m calks
T» lyl ß. mwflf
Twenty Dollars Reward.
WAS STOLEN, last evening, from the pasture of the
fubferiber, a black Rockingham GELDING, I r
1-2 hinds high, has a star, and some white under his
throat, (the pan«j;ing formerly chafed) ; has a leather on j
his neck, the mane on the near fide, his foot-iocks fretted
with a dog, and is a horse of much bone and size. Who- t
ever secures him -with the thief, (hall have the above re- '
ward, or for the Horse alons a very generous compensa
tion JOHN LAWRENCE.
7 CO4W
JOHN PAUL JONES.
INFORMATION is hereby given, that th" f late John ]
Paul Jones was a proprietor of nvc (hares (amount- - 1
ing to about 5867 teres) in a tract of land purchased by
the Ohio Company, in the territory of the United States w
of America, north-weft of the river Ohio ; and that his u
heir*, or legal on application to the direc
tors of said company, at Marietta in the territory afore
faid, will receive a deed of the said five faare§ ? or rights
of land.
The application maybe made personally or by an agent,
but proper documents nmft be produced to prove, the
claimant or'claimants the legal heirs or representative ol
the said Jones.
n.b. As'it isftot -kaown in what country the person
or persons interested reside, it will be an a& ps benevolence
in every Printer in America and Europe, who shall insert
this advertisement in his paiper.
In behalf of thediredors of the Ohio Company,
RUFUS PUTNAM.
Marietta, May 10,1776. [June 4 ] 3awgw
UNITED STATES, ?
Pennsylvania Distsict, 3
Notice is hereby given,
THAT pursuant to a Writ to me the ho
norable Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the Di
ftrift Court 0i the United States ir. and fcr the Pennsylva
nia DiftricS, • ~
Will be ezpafed to Sale,
at the Custom-House, on Monday, the ljth day of Au
gust, 3 Bags of COFFEE
I Bbl. SUGAR J
1 Half do. do. »
1 Do. do. TAMARINDS ,ti
2 Kegs do. g
» Bags of Sugar and t:
3 Do. Coffee c
The fame having bees libelled prosecuted, and v
condemned as forfeited, in the said court'
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal. h
• Marlhal's Office, 30th July, 1796.
For Salt, |
A LARGE ELEGANT A EI
Three-story Br * |
(The late residence of Genersi
■tTTITH a LOT of GROUNI < J
VV the weft fide ef Third-u . V-: i ,
containing in front 3% feet, and . ect - ; •
alley leading into Union-street. iteuuxi. a „
and 50 feet deep j the several rooms containd in it are n
large, commodioas, andcompletely finifhed; he two firft x
flories are each 13 feet high; there are K mahogany (
doo-s in the house ; a geometrical flaircafe, wth mahoga
ny rails and a good Iky-light. The kitchen isin the cell
ar, which is spacious and convenient, and firtifled with an
oven, stew-holes and pantries, a servants' hal and large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of .yhich is an
area in which there is a pump. The yard k vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neatt|iree-ftoiry
brick hcj/fe, on the north fide of Union-street, contain
ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; the lower part of which
, is at present occupied as a compting-houf«, ani the upper f
part divided into wsll-finifhed large chambers. This house
may at a small expense be converted into a convenient
dwelling: The Sreet door is very handsome, andthe front
and back have Venetian window-lhutters. Adjoining the
last hoirfe, upon the lot belonging to the firft, ire erected
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good coach
house and stables finilhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and J
in depth on the waft fide of said alley 54 feet. There are
good cellars undei the whole of the buildings, aid a wine .
room over part of the liable, with a hay-loft or.r the re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
-i —r . ~ Lt/vv #KU BUNS ALL St Co. '
At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnst A Pear 1
~ , TO , streets.
6ih month 14th, 1736
FOR SAL E,
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED rwiTTENHAM, situate in the
townlhip of Upper Derby, andcountyof Delaware, J
7 t-i miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the \
new Wefternroad: containing X3O acres of excelfent land, '
45 of which are g6od watered meadow, 90 of prime wood- '
land, and the reft arable of th« firft quality. Tlere are '
on the preniifes a good two story brick house, with » rooms '
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well !
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn stables,
and other convenient buildings ;,a smoke-house ajd stone,
spring-house ; tw» good apple orchards, and one o: peach
es. The fields are all in clover, except those imntdiately I
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage <
of water in each of them, which renders it peculia*ly con- (
venient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very P'tVok :" r
country feat.
The foregoing is part of tb
deceafed, acd offered for sale >y
\
Oft. 9. eo.] So ' \*
Lottery and B
N" 64 Souths...
TCKETS in the Canal Lottery No.. 11, are now rea- 1
dy for sale, a Check Book kept for the examination
of Tickets, and Prizes paid, without dedu&ion.
The Subscriber solicits the application of the Public or
any of his friends who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock
Certificates, Bills of. Exchange, or Notes, Houses, Lands',
Lottsor Merchandize of any kind, or to obtain Money '
on deposit of property.
WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
Late Agent for the Canal Lottery Company.
■SJ° Shares an 1 Tickets in the late Newport Lone
MTharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery examined * a
complete lift of all the prizes having been received at
this office.
j« ne 6 - w&s
Jsjheton and James Humphrey?
CONVEYANCERS,
TTAVE removed their office to No. 61, Walnut-street,
t. D^ t , T two t0 t^lc cornc r of D®ck-ftreet
where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn"'
a modeme charge, with care, acc.racy and dispatch.-
They likewise buy and fell Real Estates upon commis
sions and procure Money upon Loan on good security.-
MPmnr a ",r ATT ??f AT LAW audNOTA
RY PUBLIC is also tranfafted at the said office as usual
M R I « , r ASSHETON HUMPHREYS.
N. B. Good Notes discounted.
eo6w
hifurancecomp. of the state of
Pennsylvania.
The DireiSors hare declared a dividend of fixtcen dol
larsoneajh fcareofthe capital of said company, for the
last fix months which will be paid to the stockholders or
thntjrgal reprefenutives on every day after the loth
S. W. Fisher,
'• ""SJ
George Dorson,
BEGS leave to inform the Store-Keepers in Town and
Couftfrv, that he has removed from Market-Street to
N°- 25, south Third-ftreer,
' where he is opening a Large and Elegant Aflbrtmeat of the
5 undermentioned articles—viz..
Superfine-London Cloths and Kerseymere*,
Yorkftiire second Do. Do.
> Elaltic do. do.
Mix'd and Blue Coatings
, F1 annc* lis, &c.
Manchester Printed Caliicoes,
[ London Chintz £itro,
Blue and ditto Furnituies,
, , India ditto,
Long Cloths, .CofTaes, Baftas, Battillas& Conjevrems,
, 4-4 9-8 5-4 & 6-4 Superfine India Book Muflin\
4-4 and 9-8 India 3ook Handkerchiefs,
4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 <5c 6-4 plain do Muslins,
4-4 & 6-4 Britifn Jaconets,
6-4 Briiilh Cheeks and Stripes,
4-4 India do. cfo. do.
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, Sec.
A large afloument of figur'd and plain Muflinet«,
Quiltings, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
Fancy Waiftcoatings,
Ginghams of the firftQuality, fabje& to Drawback,
India Nankeens,
Men's Whireand colaured Silk (lockings.
May 9 .
, - — 1
To be fold,
A PLANTATION, in thetown of Woodbury, coun- 1
ty of Glsucefter, and it arc of New-Jersey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propo'r- '
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
great part of the arable '.and is in a high state of cultiva- !
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover. '
On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house, •
[ with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under 1
the whole; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage- '
house. The garden is large, and contains a go»d codec- •
tion ®f the bed kinds of grafted and moculated fruit trees ; 1
. the orchard confiftsof about three hundred grafted apple
*~ees. Any person inclined to purchase (aid premises, may '
be fonSsed «f the terms by applying to
Andrew Hunter.
J-'r 19 f i
On Monday next, 25th infl. (July,) 1
( be landed at South street wharf, the cargoes of Superb, ! !
Weitlndian and Isabella, from Jamaica and Havanna, con- 3
nuing of
! MolaiTes in Hogsheads, ;
Coffee in hogsheads, barrel? & 1
FCR SALE BY
; PETER BLIGHT\
Who has also for sale, .
1 A quantity of Jamaica GINGER,
Pimento & 7 T n
; Cocoa, } Inßa S 8 '
And 159 boxes Harabro.' WINDOW GLASS, by 9, will
. be fold cheap. '
: July 20 diot & tuth 4 j lot
; FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN away from the fubferiber living near Church
t Hill, Qu'en Anns County in the State of Maryland'
j about the firll of January last, a black negro man, named '
„ Sam, about thirty years of age, 5 feet 8- or 9 inches high, 1
I has a crooked finger on one hand, and one leg and foot
] smaller than the other, somewhat round-Ihouldered, his
cloathing unknown. Any perfon.jwlio -wilL •, —
feTtng laia rellow home, To that I may get hira again ihall 1
r have the übove reward with reasonable charges.
WILLIAM JACOBS.
Jtaife 4. "iawim.
For Sale,
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
e TN New Jersey, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbour.
1 Th.-Grift Millisfixty by forty feet, two water wheels,
' and calculated for four run of Stones, with screen, fans
and boulting-cloths, &c. TheSaw-Millhastwofaws,and
capable ofcuttingfive to 6 100 thousand feet of Boards per
~ c year. A valuable piece ,ef Cedar Swamp, within a mile
s and a half of the Mill, an 4 within three quarters of a mile
. of a Landing. The Lumber, &c. may be taken by water
from the mill tail.
also ri>R SALE,
I' Several Valuable Tra£ts of Land,
f In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be receiv
e ed in the notes of Messrs. Morris and foichelfou, or in
- Cash.
For further information apply to tl.e Printsr.
1 May 17- , saw
No. 134.
A of Pennfylva»ia, to wit.
tj QI -membered that on the 23d day cf May, in the
eth year of the Independence of the Uni.ed'States
Frakci. Shallus, of the said difltia hath'
this office, the title of a book, the ri K ht whereof
... .; v s, proprietor in the words following to wit "• THE
■ APPOiNtMSNT, or THE FORCE Or' CREDULI
-1 w Comic Opera in three acts, by Andrew Barton,
Uie Ijthor »° n ,CT ° ° d with lir 6 c Editions by
n " Enchanting gold ! that dost conspire to blind,
« Mans- empg judgment and misguide the mind,
r In search of thee, the wretched worldling goes,
:, " Nor dangers (ears, tho' fiends of night oppose."
i, e In conformity to ihe aft of the C«ngrefs of the United
y States, entitled "An aft for the encouragement of learning
by fecnng the copies of map,.charts and books to the authafs
.nd propr.etorsoffuchcop'esduriHg the times therein men!
tionea. SamuilCaldweli, Clk Dift P-nn
in " U c °» r f c °S"»'"r thru
g __1 I 4t
,t Twenty Dollars Reward.
RAN away this morning from the Snbfcriber, living
in the county of Monmouth, New-lerfev a
" ably black Negro Man, named B£N—about 40 years of
age, 5 feet 9 or 10 .nehes high, ftrfut made, bald on the
crown of his head ; had on and took with him a grey
, homespun coating coat and jacket, a brown cloth coat
t, with a black collar, homespun tow shirts and trowfers'
« with other fh,rt» and small cloaths wb.ch cannot be e, u
f. m wh n * comp'aifant, artful .and deceitf«l fellow.
- W t"P a " Cure the said Runaway, so
that hu owner may him again, thall have the above re
ward > an d reasonable charges paid if brought home. ,
Eli/ha Lawrance.
July 38-Aug.,
f Wanted,
THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATIC
from September, 1?95 , to the ArtlJt
1. P t,ce Wlil be given. Enquire of th a Editor S
AU?. t f
- 6 *§6t
I disposed of,
I HE time of a strong, healthy NEGRO MAN who
has from 8 to 9 years to ferv<» ' •
With farming and " acquainted
Enquire at this Office. V
July »9
3
City cf Wathington.
i SCHEME i)ft he. LOTTERY, No. II•
j for 'rut: wPßortuEKr of the
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) so,poo dollars, & )
dwelling-house, 5 30-000, ire 5 -s°'®°°
I ditto 15,000 & cask 25,000 40,000 '
I ditto 15,000 & oafh 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,0 00 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ca(h prize of " 10,000
2 do. 5,000 each, are, « ic,ooo
10 do. 1,000 - - io,coo
so do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - • 10,000
200 do. 5.0 - -■ xo.ooo
400 do. 25 - - i«,ooo
1,000 do. 40 - 20,000
15,000 do. 10 • • 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
3i,»6l Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 40,0000
N. U. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawa
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not lets than 30 tickets. ,
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ereiled in the City of Wafhington--
Two beautiful designs are already felecfted for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from tnefe prawings
it is proposed to erect two centre and four corjter buildings,
as soon as pollible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necelfary eipenfes of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part of the fundintended for the National
Univerlity, to l>e cteded within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finilhad ; and ary pr.zes lor which fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve months afttr the
drawing is closed, are to be considered as given towards
| the fund for the University ; it being determined to
the whole business in a year from the elding of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the Prafideot and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
1 The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment o£
the late Commiflioners aflifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous tafic
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficierit num
ber of these having kindly Accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National Univeifity and the other federal ob
jects may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the diflerent parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
I have been sent for sale, the public are allured that the v
drawing will speedily commerce, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necelTary to insure a fafe disposal df
the tickets, has rendered the fnor- suspension indilpemable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
! «§« Tickets may be had at the Bank of Colum'iia ;of
, James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilmafc, Boston ;
j of Jo!m Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells,
Cooper's Ferry.
S Univerfitjrof Ppnnfvlvania,
r July 16, 1796.
1 r "PHE Summer Vacation will take place on Monday, next,
*■ the jßih inft. and continue for Four weeks.—The differ
ent Schools wiihthe several Tutors will accordingly re»
aifemble on Monday, the 15th day of August.
By the Faculty, Wm, Rogers, Sec'y•
For sale by the fubferibers,
IN PENN-STREET,
J 130 quarter Chests frefh Hyson Tea:
j sto ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
r 300 Boxes China, containing small tea setts of 4»
. pieces;
. 400 pieces Bandanoes.
r Willings Francis.
January 30 3taw.
; Lottery
FOR railing fix thousand fix hundred and fycty-isvett
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
I Prize of 5000 dollars k dollars 5050
I 1000 iDoo
I 500 500
. 5 200 JOCO
g 20 IQO | M ' 2QOO
1' 99 5° 4950
f 200 25 5000
1 2000 IO 20,000
5 Last drawn numbers of XOOO dollars each, 5000
'» ————— » ' ■
1 2332 Prizes. 44,450
4018 BLinks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Directors of the Society for establish
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperintendants of the Pat
r erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
' s ' foregoing Stheme to the pubjic, and have directed them
to refund the money to those persons who have purchaftd
in the former Lottery," or exchange the tickets for tickets
, e in this Lottery.
The lottery has adually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office of William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ill ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
>f J. N CUMMING, 7
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, > Managers.
I JONATHAN RHEA, )
s ' June 18 eo
I- "
■ 0 " To be Sold,
At No. 128, North Second-Street, and bj several of
the Apothecaries in this City.
r I TRANSFERS of the right to remove pains and iaflsmma*
-*• tions from the human body, asfecured to Dr. ELISHA
PERKINS, by patent, with iriftruments and dirf&ions ne
ceffaryfor rhepra&ice. This mode of treatniec'- is particu
larly ufeful in relieving pains in the hcatl, face, teeth, brealt,
fide, stomach, back, rheumatisms, recent gout/» & c « Ac.
5 Notwithstanding the utility of this prafticc. it is not pre
is b ut there are cases in which this and every other
remedy may sometimes fail.
June 18,' iwa
10 PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
d —No. 1 /9 —
CHESHUT-STXEST.
[Prise Eight Dol'm per 4nnn*7.]