■
'
of the UniteQ&tatt*,- <&* Philadelphia Dally Advertiser.
.
Number 1234.] TUESDAT EVENING, AUGUST 23, 1796. \VPLUMS. X.
fjjj&r The brig Mary \
FOR SALE >
AND may be fecn at Abiah and William
Byown's wharf. STie is about 800 barrels *-
burthen, strong built, and* well but-bolted, has elegant Merc*
accommodations, is a good sailer, only 10 months old, Wl '
.and may be sent to fca immediately. Apply to
James Brown,
No. 119 South Sedond-ftreet. 1 j) Q
Who has for sale, | few puncheons high proof I . g or
Jamaica Spirits. Jjj
AND A FEW BARRELS SHAD.- En]
Aug. IJ f}lo Da:
__ Sill
UNITED STATES, \ „ Th
Pennsylvania District, 5 f«
Tfl purluance of a Writ to me directed from the Honour- I Iril
1 able Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the Diftrift I ""
Court of the United States for the Peanfylvania Dulritft, I
Will it exposed to Public Sale, I A
At the Merchants* Coflfee-Houfe, in the City of Philadel- ] *- _
ehia, on Monday, the 19th day of August, instant, at 12 I Melfi
•'flock at noon, | no^
The SLOOP called the Fo
Rebecca, j Ap
_ '■g&.siiiJzCi- With all and lingular her tackle, appa- ■
rcl and Furniture, as the fame now are ; the said iloop I
having been condemned, to pay Mariners' wages, &c. !
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal. ; n p ;
Marshal's Office, 19th August, 179 ft. I
For Sale or Charter,
1000 Bbls. of flour-—fhr may be fen* |
to sea at a small ctpence,-~h«» fiilt and rigging fieufg nrt—ss;
tcry good order—apply to j
"Jama Campbell, or J"
George Latimer.
April 19, rhh
This Day commenced Landing,
At V iflins wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop TJ
"St. Jago, from St. JagodeCuba—confiding of 1
White and Brown Box SUGAR. I w f*
MOLASSES, of an excellent quality. 1 A (
COFFEE. iST 1
HIDES and HONEY. Also, Ihe
For Salo or Charter. j - ts
The brig LUCY,
A (lout, strong vessel, will carry a- '''
/\ bout jsoo barrels,and way go to I
| f«a with a very small expense. j
Theabove will be fold for cash or approved notes.
Samuel Emery,
No. 64, south Second-flreet. j
July 7.7, 179 6 - dtf- — U
For Sale, the!
Or for Charter to the Well-Indies, wR
c & 7H R-k g
Philadelphia Built, Tftio J
and Red Cedar, burthen about _ 3 joa.bar- giv£
C ) rck now discharging at Latimer s what f. I his el g j
Wis in excelled repai?, well fouud and will bear a tho- be
rough examination, and as soon a, discharged will be tea- \
dv to take in a cargo. For terms apply to Mo
John Vaughan. this
July 18 — — J
At South-street wharf, L*
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft August, tOl
by snow Hope, from Jamaica, a»d sloop Sally, mJ]
from Port-au-Prince, I fan .
?oo Hhds. COFFEE, J
7 o Hhds. SUGAR.
Also, the cargo of the Swedi/h trig Gufaf Adolphe,
capt. Ram/re, from Gibraltar, J
ift and 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds. j —
Haile Nuts in sacks
St.ULesSALT, ferfaleby _
PETER BLIGHT. j]
For Charter, . *
' The said brig I
. Gustaf Adolphe, ' n
* itith a Mediterranean pass, I p r
' very fiae vefTel, about 200 tons bur- I
then. Aug. '8. ' j»weo»w hij
For Sale Wp m'
Friendship,
TJURTHF.N 300 Barrels or 140"
l, u fl,els Coal, an excellent frame,
Liw Oak. and Cedar, and well found with cables, anchors 1
itc. fit for sea—now lying at Almono-ftreet wharf, 1 ho- I
ma, Penrofe's. The terms w.ll be made reasonable.
Apply to the Owner, No. 311 south Front-flreet, next
door to Jpnatha* Penrofe, Esq. AU S- T 9 '° 4 J
To~be"fold, "
Qn Twelve Months Credit, I
If applied for immediately, I |
One Hundred Thousand Dollars, I
And one hundred and eighty thousand acres of good w
LAND,
In the (late of Virginia. Apply to the Printer. I
Aug. 19 I
~ FOR SALE,
A Complete Font of Brevier, • J
ENtir«ly r.ew, and yet unopened. The weight of this
font is about 31a lb. It is from the Foundery of
Wilfon&Sons,Glafgow,and willbtlold at cost & charges. I
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette ol the United
States. 119 Chefndt-flreet. *»g 19 |4W__
CABLES,
From 16 to 9 i inches, for sale by 1
"Jeremiah Warder,
fulv II S No.ia northThird-ltrert.
" "a"Book-Keeper, 1
/no Clerk's place i» wanted by a perfoii properly qmli-
O fii'd, and whose character will be found unexception
able. Apply to the Printer. J
Aug. ii |
Wm. HOLDERNESSE, , Btl
No. 76 High' Street y
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and 50
the Eafl Indies, a well fele&ed assortment of Silk 1
Mercery,, Linen Drapery and Haberda(h£ry Gopds \ which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms ;
AMONGST WHICH ARE, Q n \
Some fine India muslins with gold and stiver
I Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
Do do d« do Handkerchiefs
I - Some extra hlack colorctd Persians
I Bandano Handkerchiefs —
I Long and (hort Nankeens.^
Englifti Mantoas of the firft quality
I Damaflc table linen and napkins, very fine
I Silk Ht>fiery, an elegant aflortmcnt
j Thead and cotton do
I Umbrellas—green "silk, oil'ddo. and do cloth
I French cambrics, very fine (
- J Iriih Linens, do. &c. 3cc. June 14 $
For Sale,
I A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
I j[\ street, between Front and Second streets, in which
j I MefTrs. James Calbraith Sc. Co. have for many years (and T"
I now do) carried on bufmefs. , ,
I PolTeffion will be giver, in one month, or foonet. 0 1
j For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or? * ncc
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April 11. i k- pt
f . FOR SALE,
j WINB, London particular Midtira, 4 years old, f or
I in pipes and hogsheads
Ckret, gennine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Balket Salt, in hogsheads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, I and 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Russia, in barrels (
■vt J Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas,
THOMAS Jc - .
I July t«)
ELEPHANT.
■ This Animal is to beffe n in High-Street, betwten
the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street.
TJE will positively leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep- Fot
j irl tember, for Baltimore, in his way to Charlcl'ton,
I where he will win'er.
J ADMITTANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar D;ft
I for Children. s ot S
The PANORAMA, or the VIEW of the CITIES of
LONDON and WESTMINSTER, „ f F
) * Is to be open till theToth of September, and the sub- Cou
j jea will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE- boj .
, PHANT. feffi
ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA,
One quarter of a Dollar.
AlJ g uit 3- : — tuo,
Tc be fold by public sale,
I Wednesday, the ?th day of September next, on lice
j the premises in Mount-Holly, Burlington county, by q UC
I the Subscriber, at t
The Dwelling-Uoufe and Lot fucl
Whereon it stands, having been in part occupied as a store
I and in a good (land lot
I (J-ether with the store-house, liable and buildings thereon ,
- Linuct
I (hop goods and houfebold furniture. A clear title wiil be*j -
lr " j riven to the on payment of the money or fuf
ef" j ficitnt bond therefor, and polTeffion of the premises will 1
10 " be given in the said month of September. J
I The sale is to continue 'till the whole is disposed of. Rc
Mount Holly having become rhe County Town, makes w£
this property more valuable than heretofore. The condi
-1 tions will be made known at the time and place of sale, by
L PETER SHIRAS. ;h
I N. All persons indebted tolhefubfcriber,are reqmeft-
I cd to discharge the fame immediately, as he intends soon
jto remove out of this state. Any person having a jult do
"y. maud against the fubferiber, is requested to produce the
I fame for settlement. 11 § lw j,
I Mount Flolly, August 16, 1796. ar
WANTED,
' h '> An APPRENTICE to the Printing Bufmefs. «<
Enquire at this Office, auj». 19 a
Wants Employment,
ITN a genteel family, reriSnt in town or country, a -
I 1 French lady lately arrived in this city. She has re- £
ceived a good education and can be well recommend
ed. She wifties to undertake the tuition of children,
and will teach them to read, write, and speak the
lifs > j French language, in A short time, by principles ample, r "
| but very intelligible. She will also inftru6t in
" 1 history, rnythologie, &c. and will be careful in paying tl
stria attention to their morals ; her terms will be very le
I moderate. Apply at No. 15, Lombard-Street, Pliiia- -
I ladelphia. °
August go. 10t d
-1400 I C
Elephant.
rhn S I T'HE Public is informed thaf this animal will leave Phi- ''
1 ladelphia on the FIRST of September instead ot the
n . Y . joth, 'till which time the Proprietor will continue te ex
,4 I hibit him a 6 usual, in High-street near Tenth-street. j-,
I Aug. 14 3 J
I— " 1
George Dobson, «
r> EGS leave to inform the Store-Keeper, in Town and '
D Countrv. that he has removed from to {
RS, n°* 25, south Third-street, c
od where he is opening a Large and Elegant Assortment of the t
J undermentioned articles—viz. ]
Superfine London Cloths and Kerfeymeret, j
- 1 'YorklhiTe lecond Do. Do. j
JL- I Elastic do. do.
Mix'd and Blue Coatings
j Flannells, &c.
L . 1 Manchester Printed Callicoes,
' t " l< London Chintz ditto,
r T 01 Blue and ditto Furnituies,
lr g es - India ditto, „ „
Lonp Cloths, ColTaes, Baftas, Battilla;& Conjevrems,
nited ... a-8 5-4 & 6-4 Superfine India Bo„k Muslins,
4W j 4-4 and g-8 India Book Handkerchiefs,
I 4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
I 4-4 & 6-4 plain do. Muslins,
I 4-4 & 6-4 Britilh Jaconets,
I 6-4 Britilh Checks and Stripes,
I 4-4 India do. do. do. ,
T 4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, &c.
I a affoitment of figur'd arid plain Mufliaets,
Quiltings, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
Fancy Waitlcoatings,
quali- Ginghams of the firft Quality, fubjeft to Drawback,
ption- India Nankeens, .
Men's Whiteand^oloured Silk stockings.
tf May 9 wecl *
Just Arrived, I
In the Snow Bolton, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li- (
verpool, Vj
5000 BufheU SALT ; SF
100 Crates QUEENS WARE; and C(
An Aflbrtment ot SHIP CHANDLERY ; T.
FORSALE SF
On at Pine-street wharf.——Apply to T;
James Campbell, or vv
George Latimer. c \
: April X?. 5_
Landing, A
From on board the Schooner Exptrlition,
St. Croix Rum&Sugar, ]
For Bale by F. COPPINGER,
Aog. ti S an South Frent-flreet. Ai
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. ~
Notice is hereby Given, co:
THAT agreeably to an aft of Congrefa of the United
State* ot America, palled at Philadelphia, the *Btb day
of May, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey- B'OS
ance of persons, and repealing the former acts for that par- \
pose.—That there (Kail be levied, collected and paid, upon
all catriagcs for the conveyance of persons, which fHali be g
kept by or for any person, for hi* or h«r own use, or to let ■ ..
out to hire, or for the conveying of puiTcngers, the feverai du
ties and rates following, to wit.
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, 12 dols. «
upon every Post Chariot, l* dols; "
upon every Port Chaise, 12 dols. Con>
upon every Phaeton, with or without top, 9 dols lie*
upon every Coacbee, 9 dols. mat
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 abov«,
with bliods, glasses or curtains, 9 dols. O _
upon four wheel cairiages, having framed posts and ?
\ tops with iteelipiings, 6 dols.
upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron of
Spoti chaises with top*, 3 dols. " anK
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols. rjj> *
us on fulkics with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel with Aeel or iron springs, 5
3 dols, taw
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols.
upon every four wheel carriage, having framed posts fur\
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols. as V
The Coll'&ors of the Revenue of rt>e firft survey of the
Diftriftof Pennsylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day
of September next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on
Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or Safiafras street, in Oity «
of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Efq in the —
Countv ot Montgomery j and at the house of Abraham Du
" bois, Eiq. in the County of Bucks; of wnich all perfoni pof
IcfTed ot such Carriages are defned to take notiee. oC-
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri
" tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to them ; one li
cence for carrying on the buTinefs of retailing ot Wines, in a .
less quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallon*—and one
I licence tor carrying on the bufinels of retailing Spirituous li
i quors in lelsquan.ities than 20 gallons, at the fame time and
at the places, by the officers legally authorized to grant
such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpe&or of the Revenue of the fiift survey
of the dirtriftof Pennsylvania.
— - -
.1 Take notice,
II application will be made for the renewal of I
I t he following certificates, ilTued by Joseph Nourfe, |
r - Register of tI(E Trcafury, ill the name of Roger Gril 1
: 5 wok!, Esq. of Norwich, Connetficut— j
i certificate, fix per cent domestic stock, N«. 13,907 j
7 —dated the i7thDecernber, 1795, bearing interest from I
> the firlt day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65-100 dol- j
1 ditto, thres per cent, domestic stock, No. 10,682 I
T —dated December 16, 1795, bearing interest from the
,» firft day of January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dollars.
1 ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th I
December, 1795, bearing interest from the firit Janu- tk
- ary, 1801, for 798 83-iao dollars? , „ |
Said certificates are supposed to have been loit or of
flolen in this city feme time in December or Janui;y #n
_ lafL JOSEPH THOMAS, va
No. 59, North Frontrftreet. I 1
Philadelphia, July 21, i79<>' d6w. I sri
■e- Philadelphia, West-Chester, StraJburghA as
d " Lane after, Tork and Frederick-town \[ h
ZSIAG E S. * U
le, HPHE proprietors of the above Stages, return their bed ■
in X thanks to their friends and the public in general, for I
ng the encouragement received in this line of bufrnefs, and T>eg I
ry leave to inform the public, that they are determined to run
u tf;eir stages through from Philadelphia to Lancaster in J
one day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July inllant, I
in the following manner, —vi?. A Stage will set out on I
L_ that day at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the house of
Gcofge Weed, Market-ftrect/Philadclphia, and run by I
the way of Wtilcnefter and Stralburgh, arrive in Lancaf
, . ter the fame evening, on Friday morning run to Wright's I 1
f c rry and exchange passengers with the York and Fredej
ick-town stage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat- 1 1
eX " iurday, and on Monday morning tollovving, at 4 o'clock, I °
said stage willfet out from the said George Weed's, Phila
| ddphia, and arrive at I.ancafter the fame evening, on
Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out from the house tl
of Mrs. Edwards," Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia I f
the f3me evening, and will commence again on Thursday |
■ morning following, and continue every week—The price j?
''° for each passenger from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three j'■
dollars and a half, to York, four'dollars and thtee qHar- ]'
the teis, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like funis for l
1 jo'weight baggage, With the usual allowance of 14 lb. 1 J
gratis to each pafl'cnger, and j pence a mile for all way I
passengers. 3°-s4w '
John Reilly, L
George Weed. j
Sales of India Goods. V
The Cargo ef the (hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal- j 1
cutta and Bengal,
CONJISTINO OF X
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras I
COTTON and SIUC GOODS.
among which axk
A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins, I
Doreas, isfc. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, |
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings fc? Francis,
No. Penn Strict 1
:lf June 8 5 I
New-England RUM in Hhds.
i- /COUNTRY GIN in barrel*,
JUNIPER BERRIES in Cases,
SPERMACETI, >
COMMON WHALE, and > OIL.
TANNERS }
SPERMACETI CANDLES,
Tallow Ditto, Mould and Dipt
White SOAP, in Bcxes
Best Boston BEEF, ia barrets anil half barrel*
CODFISH, in hhds,
Best Boston MACKREL, in barrels, and
A few choice fnioakcd SALMON, tor Sale bV
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
Also, a fraall invoice of well afibrted
INDIA GOODS,
JUST ARRIVED.
Aug. »3 § »o
FOR SJIE,
COFFEE, in hhds. bbls.(& bags
COTTON, of Deraerara, and > entitled to drawback
•d SOAL-LEATHER 3
ly Also,
>- BOSTON BEEF, and.Mould and Dipt CANDLES.
r - Apply ta 1 ISAAC HARVEY, Jun.
>n I No. 5 south Water-street.
"i 8 mo. 30. $3W
et i ..— i — .. L
Valuable Manufactory.
FOR SALE,
I A Saap and Candle Manufactory, standing in a
I convenient part of she city. The works are almost
I new—on an entire new conftruflion—built of the belt
I materials; and ready to set to work immediately.
*> I Also,
ld 8,000 acres of the firft quality of Land,
Lying on the Buchanan and Big Sandy waters, state
on jof Virginia This traift of Land is highly recommtnd
| ed by dilinterefted peifons—further proofs of its good-
T -*v oy app 1 yiXljut SiTlTc'«i*txCC. nr - cVr*'
J amount of sales will be exposed in cafh—MefTrs. Mor
{ rii oc Nicholfon's Notes will be received in payment of
I the residue.
I 5,a00 acres of Land on Baldwin's creek, Cheming
' I township, Tioga county, state of New-York. This
I traiS lies hear the county Court-house, waft originally
ids I surveyed to Judge Piatt of New-York, and conlidersd
Is- I as valuable propc-rtv.
'he Apply to FRAUNCES & VAN REED,
' a y I Brokers, No. 63 south 3d street.
on I Who discount approved Notes of hand at the ftiort
j eft notice. Aug. 20 st&s
'j" Cit) cf Walhington.
J SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE. MPROPIMENT OF THE
r|- FEDERAL CITY.
1 I A magnificent i 20,000 dollars, & >
mc 1 dweHing-houfe, ) cash 30,000, are ) S©,°°o
lj. I 1 ditto ij.ooo & cash 15,000 40,000
mc I 1 ditto 15,000 & c;i#i 15,000 30,000
aut I 1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 io,oo«
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 to,uoo
,s y I I cash prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are • . 10,000
_j- IQ-i.e- . it§ss> - - 104oaa
00 do. 100 • - 10,000
[0f I »oo do. 50 >• - 10,000
r f ej I 400 do. 25 - - 10,000
j r i| I 1,000 do. 20. - ao,ooo
I 15,000 do. 10 • - 150,009
307 1 ~ _ .
om Prizes:
iol- 1 Blanks.
the I 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
7th I B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
inn- I Tickcts,the prize of 40,000 dollars willbe the last drawn
1 ticket, and the 30,000 tha last J>ut ost :
I And approved notes, securing payment in either monsy
I or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
ia *y any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri-
I vate buildings to be eredled in the City of Wafhington--
I Two beautiful defijns are already fele&ed for the entire
I fronts on two of the public squares ; from these prawings
' it is proposed to ere<3 two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
I them, when complete, to the fortunate adventur«rs, in
I the manner described in the fchemefor the Hotel Lottery.
* I A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will be made to defray
I the necessary expenses of pruning, &c. and the surplus
j or I will be made a part of the fund intended for the tvutioilai
I Teg I University, to be erefled within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will'commence as soon as the tickets are
cr in J °®- he money prizes will be payable in thirty days
jnt 1 after it is finilhad; and any prizes for which fortunate
lt on ' j numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the
fe of I drawing is closed, are to be considered as given toward*
Q C bv the funi for the Univcrlity ; it being determined to fettle
nc f- I w^°'c bufinefsin a year from the ending of the draw
ght's ' n S> and t( > take up the bonds given as security.
edea- I The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
Sat- I ire held t^ie President and two Diredors of the Bank
lock I 01 " Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
'hila- 1 mount ot the lottery.
yon The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
noufe the late Commiflioners assisted in the management of the
! p hia I Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous task
rfday 1 a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num.
price 1 ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
three friends to a National University and the other federal ob
quar- I je&smay continue to favor the design.
11s for I B y accounts received from the different parts of the
lb. I Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
way I have been sent for Tale, the public are affurcd that th*
, w I drawing will speedily commcn»e, and that the carc and
| caution unavoidably neceflary to insure a fafe disposal of
I th» tickets,has rendered the laor; fufpenGon indifpcnl'able.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
J # §. Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia.; o£
1 James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Boston ;
1 of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells,
Cal- j Cooper's! Ferry. eo
Landing
ladras j From on board th« Nancy, William Belcher, mas.
I ter, from Bourdeaux, a cargo, confiding of—
360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET,
lins, j 2 , 2 Cases of 24 bottles each, Clatet,
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, acd
l > I 1 TRUNK of RIBBONS,
For Sale by
~ F - Coppingcr. .
j 1 July 23-
1 *i
From the Farmer's Weekly Museum.
*
" And he left the oxen, and ran after Elijah, and
/aid, Let me, J pray thee, lift my fathfr atd mo
tber, and then / will fallow thee.
IN the reign of King Ahab, Elijah, the Tifh
bite, and the prophet, possessed a power, little short
of the regal. Saintly, charitable, wife, and prrfci
ent, he gained the affections, and suggested the
plant, 'of the Israelites. At that period, popular
belief was ftrongljr attached to prophecy, and po
pular applause surely would not only be acquired,
but merited by him, whose life wa» given to all the
<3utittt of benevolence. It seem«, that Elijah had
the strongest claims upon the attention, the grati
tude, and respeCt of his fellow-citizens. As a man,
as a prophet, he had filled up the measure of ufe
fnlnefs. The Zidonians, though proverbially " care
less and secure," had felt the cbaflifement .of the
ikies, which retained their dew, and their rain, and
the dusty and parched region, attefled the drought
of years. Among this supine race, the observing
prophet,-had recognized an individual, a wornjn of
Zarephath, " Looking well to the ways of' her
household," and providing food for her little son,
by the common calamity. Her signal
display of charity, at a time, when felfifhnefs would
aver, that charity itfelf must fail, induced the grate
ful Elijah to invoke miracles to her aid. The bar
rel and the cruse, which hunger had emptied, were
perennially supplied, and the darling child of the
widow, was reanimated, by the prayer of the pro
phet. Nor was this the only pafiage in his life, to
excite the wonder, or fecute the veneration, of his
people. H« had, r.rft by ridicule, a»d then by ex
periment, confounded the wotfhip of Baal, and ref
tdred the religion of she Jews. From that " little
cloud," which a servant could not, during seven at
tempts, behold and which at length, seemed mi
nutely rising from the sea, " like a man's hand,"
the enlightened eyes of Elijah could discern torrents
defcendingto "water, and revive the parched grounds
of paoiiyia, F.xnoOfj. to jibe i£--I»^cheL
a vindictive and powerful prineefs, the fugitive pro
phet seemed to be the peculiar care of Providtnce.
Ready to perish, under the scanty shade of the
mournful juniper, food was supplied bim by ange- :
licH hands, and a celestial voice vindicated to the
repining seer, the ways «f heaven.
This enumeration of the peculiarities of Elijah's
life and office, will not be deemed impertinent, by
those who, with the Preacher, trace the context,
and find the prophet by the fide of the yauthful
»fha. To him the reputation of the sage was
orious. He had heard his prophecies, he had
•ritneffed their completion. He saw the venerable
philosopher, inverted with the double power to
anoint a Syriack king, and a Jewish prophet. He
mufl havei conjeCtured, that the mysterious mantle
of his predeceflor, would soon secure to Elifha an
Elijah's praise. What powerful incitements to the
pride, to the ambition of a young and oblcure man.
How would an ordinary, how would a felfifh cha
racter have been engtoffed by vain speculations.
" How great, how wife, hov,' courted," he might
whisper, " shall 1 be, about to possess the faculties
of a pfophet, whose fame has been resounded
through Palfftine, andwhofe mighty works ajjgj?
mon.candidate for such an office, would have forgot
ten his connexions, his country, his duty, every
thing, but bimfelf. But Elifha was not fotiazzled
by the blaze of a prophet's glory, as to become be
wildered in the paths of duty. He remembered
the injunction from Mount Sinai, to honor the
more immediate authors of our being. He reflec
ted th3t his Parents ought t-o be apprised of the
new dignity of their son ; they would rejoice at his
prospeCts, they would shed their benediction. In-
Head, therefore, of instant compliance, the dutiful
EHfha pauses, refieft upon his beloved home, and
the aged couple at its fire fide, and makes the affec
tionate response in the text, " Let me-, I pray thee,
iifs my father and my mother, and then J will follow
thee.--Verily, Elifha, thou proved a good fort, -and
I love thee moie, $or iememberi-;g a Mother I '/-love,
than for all thy miracles. They may pass away,
but not one jot, nor one tittle of thy filial piety
(hall pass from remembrance. Divided Jordan, a
sweetened spring, and a miraculous gush of waters,
might own thy energy, but thy tender concern of
thy Parents, revealed thy heart. When hearing
thy pathetick tequeft, Let me lift my father aid
mother, the Cherub charities of life drew near, and
wept—and smiled !
The duty implied in the text, is acknowledged
by all, but I fear is felt, except by few. The ha
bit of domeftieiting with parents, during our in
fancy and childhood, induces a mechanical affecti
on, and an obedience of eourfe. But when the
calls of bofinefs urge us from home, the world ope
rates as an opiate, and benumbs every filial fenfati
on. We leave.it to the nurse to talk of the cradle,
and the endearments of a mother* and to the ftew
frd to compute the sums ihat a father's indulgence
has given, without reflecting upon the gentle offi
ces of the one parent, or the bounty of the other.
But reflection will convince any man that, general
ly speaking, he never fouud falter friends, than his
parents. Mutual interefl, natural affeCtion, and
long habit, all ft em to conspire to bind parents and
progeny in the union. Nor is it a small debt
we owe to them for twenty one years service. LifI*,1*,
its means, and Education, these are the important
items of their accompts against us, and /hail we
carefefsly forget the obligation :
When'cbildren are in their full (Irength, parents
are commonly advanced in age. " Age hath pains
to footb," and who so proper to practice " lenient
arts, make languor smile, and smooth the bed of
• death," as a daaghter, or a son ? What fervicc i
cote grateful, whftduty more clear i
The amiable son of Sirach knew this truth i
well. I can add nothing to his fanftion, his ener
gy, or his tendernefc. " He that honoreth his
mother, is as one that layeth up treafarc—and the
relieving of thy father shall not be forgotten. In
the day of affliction it shall be remembered ; thy
fins also shall melt away, as the ice in the fair warm
weather, ' >
Tbs lay packer.
From the Farmers Weekly Mufe-im.
F From lie Stop of Mejfrs, COLON c* SPvNDEE.
, The Runner, or Indjan 1 At.s.
d [Of Savage Nations the polifiied European, and even
American, fpeaki with contempt. We rcfort t(>
them for examples of the Werner passion*, unconsci
ous that we too hate, and we revenge, bul in the
i- silken garb of ervilmatior. ! It 7 luch a ijove.ty
■» could be found, as a Creek or Cherokee Prejs, m
■ Indian Editor might publiii a paper like the follow
" > n g : 3
advertisement.
ir MONS. BELLISLE, Hairdresser, Complec
tioniit, and Perfumer, from Efquimeaux, at the
'* Talapoofa, dresses young men's heads for the War
Dance, with or without Snakes and Feathers ; he
is matter of the Cherokee cut, the Mufkogee braid,
'* and the ChoCtaw twist. He paints faces to adrr.i
' ration, with his genuine crow blacking; he raifes_
the cheek bones, and affords the true rattlesnake
call to the eyes ; he gives to the mod fquaw-faced
c young man, thai! horrid manly look so frightful to
the enemy, and so pleasing to the young women.
1 He ha?, at great expense, procured the genuine
* Hottentot, Caffrean Pease Bladder, from the Cape
* of Good Hope.
r N. B. Monf. Bellifle was body Hairdresser to
! Little Billy.
' Vermillion, Red and Yellow Ochre, Lampblack
and etherr Cofmeticks; Deer's leg Oil, Efqui,
meaux Blubber, Bear's Grease, and other perfu
mery, wholesale and retail.
e Extraß from the IVhite Men's Puilie Talk. From
the great Council Tout, on the Sehtyliill.
3 "The Old Beggar, who- was found starved to
» death, on a dunghill, in this city, proves to have
- been a soldier, who served with reputation, during
- the whole war, in the late continental army.''
E " The body of a young woman -.vat found in the
- water, near a wharf in this city, with her throat
cut from ear to carj By other marks of violence
' on the corpse, it appearst that this unfortunate
s young person had been firft ravished, by some
s villain."
from our brethren of St. Tammany, at Ktw-Tork.
" Yesterday was executed in this city, seven men
: for forgery, three for perjury, and ten for horse
- 'stealing. As these fights are common, few per
: sons attended.
" We hear from Black River, North Carolina,
a that on Sunday, the day dedicated by white tn
( to the Great Spirit of Love, a set battle was
, fought, for forty-oue guineas, between Sawney
1 Mac Broughton, and Frank ap Dowfc, to the in
s finite diveifion of a numerous collection of gentle
-1 men and ladies. Broughton, with inconceivable
: dexterity, broke the jaw-bone of Dowse, and the
> odds were in his favour for twenty minutes, whea
: Dowse gouged both the eyes of Broughton from
: their sockets, which decided the battle. The ,
l parties shook hands, and drank a quart of whiikey
: together, to shew that they had no malice at t
. heart."
Front Charlejton, South-Carolina. (
t " Lad Sunday evening, a duel was fought in
s this city, between Col. Carte and Lieut. Tierce, (
1 in which ihe latter was dangerously wounded, and
1 f-lr-n—■ '.iviiii i * fc If i* 'V"i 1 ■' J 1 1 * tT 1 ' ' -]
. tilt hart, i hele gentlemen were particular friend*. !
. The dispute arofc about the charafler of an aCtrefs.
- The panics seemed inclined to adjust this difference '
1 amicably, bu: the rigid laws of honour prevented. •
. Tbey shook hands before they fired. The Col.
I has left a widow and five small children to lament
his loss, which is the more inconfslable as they de
pended entirely their deceased parent for their 1
education and support—But the seconds fay, this (
i affair was conducted according to the Jlrtdtfl rules
of HONOUR.
From*e-ver tie Great Pond.
" The young Sachem of the Bul; tribe, over
'he Great Lake, owes seven beavers' (kins. His
father, the Mad Bull, has offered to pay his debts,
if the Bull Nation will give hira from their hunt
ing flock, two beaver's skins every twelve moons,
until the fun and moon shall be funk io the swamp f
without boiders."
" We hear from Franee, that our ancient bro
thers, the French, the friends of the Hurons,
have tomahawked their chief Sachem and hit
Sqii3w, ard half starved the royal papoofei. They "
have scalped and tomahawked more men, women
and chilcjren, than are in the Chickafaw, ChaCtaw,
Creek, MilTouri, and Five Nations, and ail of thjir
own tribe. It ij said they made great canoes, and f:
bound their brethren, their filters, and their infants, ft
with moose thongs, and then funk them in the n- tl
ver, without allowing them time to sing their death ei
song." v
Great Spirit ! Those who give these accounts of ir
themselves in their public talks, are the people who a:
call thy red children barbarians and savages. rr
[Indian Editor. 1 ei
Shucwegee, who visited the Great Wigwam in a;
Philadelphia, twenty and sixteen mooos ago, fay la
n- U B°V n, I e ' 8 * f olr,n,on 'r believed, that the al
Big Book of the white men teaches them all that d
deceit, cruelty and ferocity, which they exercise v<
one towards another; but that in one talk of it y
they arc expressly commanded Co love one another, o
and even to love their enemies. Tho' we appre- fc
hend from the white men's doings, that Shucwcgee, tl
net well undemanding their tongue, mufl have k
mistaken this talk. No-No— Doubtless their Biz tl
Book tells them to deceive, hate, gouge, scalp, g .
tomahawk, and murder each other. ft
»• _
tt
THE MONITOR. . u
ma "' 85 white - fay, was d
' : beeaufe he was made of red earth,
he was a red man. You, who are nearest to hirr at
in co«our, are mod excellent among his children. r<
Do you aCt with th«- spirit of red men. The n,
wnite men, who have been adopted among us, must fc
not let the white of their faces fink into their j*
livers; but shew the tribes, that ity. pcffible for a rc
white fkia to cover an Indian spirit. 0 ,
"fWBLIC SALE,
ia k« fijldj by pine knot, twenty pil« c f muf.
« ken, twenty bundles »f pifct»> twei •} of
•treat war horses, twenty heap* 0 camp kettles—
f taken at t!tc fight of the Mianfis, frovn the great
wWite runner, St. C—r, with a crtrious- crutch,
•n supposed to belong to some Great Captain ; ado
one bat horse, taken one day's journey, from the
:i * cimo of the flaming warrior Wayne.
Ie
BEN. SCALFUM,
Manufa&urer, from England, at Lake Erie,
near the Miamis, makes and fells cutioes, scalping
knives, and tomahawks, and has on hand a large
quantity of biimftune matches, and seasoned pine
ie knots, for the tormenting of prisoners.
ir N.*B. Wanted, a young lad of good disposition,
ie as an apprentice. '
OBITUARY. >
rs Gone to the world of Spirits, TalotheJke; he
e was a great Cherokee wnnor, had twenty scalps j
d in his wigwam, 1 and the cup he diank his black
o drifck from, was' the feell of a chief. His wife
r. has dreamed twice that ihe has coaverfed with him, .
e and is soon, therefore, to go to him ; his wolf dog
,c was sent to him yesterday.
Also, at Tulcorara, Fox Feet, the great hunter ;
o" he killed more Wauppanaaghs, than Fcenchmen
have Frenchmen; he would dive the falls and |
catch a salmon ; he changed the religion cf his fa
il ther because the Je-fuit Powwow told him that St.
i. Peter, his chief Sachem, was a good filherman, j
and would teach him to take mummychog in the
lakes of the moon. 1
n 1
MARRIAGE.
0 Yesterday deposited fciver3 of the lite oak,
e Ouabi, the son of the white chief, ind Azakia, '
5 the daughter of Ouabi the big warrior, who raa- 1
ny moons ago ru(hed into the land of Spirits, to '
e ' demand of the Great Man, why he was not before <
1 called to bis feat beyond the woods anp waters. t
e \
« BOMFSTIC TALK.
e Last moon, a party of the big knife, of fifty r
— young men, cape •» SfaWfl—--unit- '
-tflf WT"a!rbl3 man, his iquaw, three young wo- '
men, and four children, and barbarously murdered -
n them. c
Yesterday thirty white warriors, supposed to be *
Yankees, by their trail of Molafles, Hole two horses 1
from the banks of the Chataluithe. Same day, c
they got an ®ld Cherokee drunk, and stole his
n beaxr pack. 1
s Last moon, Natewego delivered an Elegant, v
» Spirieid Talk, or Oration, in commemoration of •
the Bloody Majfacrt at Wyoming.
It is said, that at the grand council of the Mif
e fouri, a Shawanefe chief proposed to fend a large '•
c nnmber of eanoes to take possession of a ceitain j
a savage Isle in the Great Lake, called. Rhode-Island,
" to bring away some of the inhabitants, to learn (
e them their language, and then fend them some *-
T warriors to civilize them, and some powwows to ®
1 teach them the true religion. f
When the white prisoners, taken at St. Joseph, I
were carried among the men of the Bear Nation,
1 they would not allow them to be in the fame tank
of man with themfelvcs. Doubtless, said,, they,
j their ancestors were red men, as we all came from j
j on? crijnrnqn (lock : but these creatures are whueo_ _
_ c■ °y ciieafe, like the decayTngTeavcs of the wood?.
T hey therefore painted them with red earth and £
: coali, to make their appearance supportable to the
young men and women.
| Pulljbtd at Taiapo»sa—One firing of IVam fun K
for twelve Motnt, and one Talk each Moon. "
r
' GAZETTE of UNITED STATES, d
• C
PHILADELPHIA-. t\
TUESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 2J. tl
- — C
CO NT/A VAT 10X OF m
Foreign Jntelligence. ll
Reived by the flip Light-Horse, from Brijlol. £
[The MowW i, the ; n the London
C L;I, f ° { ? Cn ; I*"** » account of
defeat of a div:CoD of his army under Lepeivie
Our readers w.ll perceive that it varies in some particu- fci
lars from the tranfladdo before published.? f„
of the s ambrl and MEVSE. t
The General in Chirf, Jousdan, to the Exe- t.r
cutive Directory.
" Quarters, Mont. batier, June 17.
1 haje the honor to inform you that what I fore- ,'t,
jaw, has happened The enemy,after having recalled m,
rom the left to ,h. right bank of the Rhine almost
the whole ef their force;, the Aich-duke having 1
ercreafed his army by some from that of
rm L k? r a " ?Cd ,0 the Lah " ith rauch
more considerable forccs than I could colled there : an
and profiung by their advantage in bei 9 g able to f
move wuh greater expedition shan I, thfy aSnd" t
ed the Upper Lahn, so that when I ordered the ' ,
advanced guard to p ,f s i t 0 n the 15th, by P
9? Cral Lcfebv ", who coa.raar.ded it, was rl
did'ro't h ya f ftr ° ng iorpS " Th ' S br " e General ?v
did rot choose to ret.re w. hout fighting, and a
T ery bn(k , ensued, of which give'
y outhedetad. ] will immediately fend you I refou
of this engagement, in which the enemy, although
Z r S O°Tf ,h3R GenCra ' - riv
than he. Our loss may amount to 250 or .300 men vis
tf a ' ft W ° ,lnde C 'n d pnlot,erS - ' The ""mber of th<
the last « very small, and we hste made a 1
ft PkcCS ° f Cannon rc m?iine(l in ihc
be pcOeffon of the enemy, who attacked the bat
impetuofity ; but who did Hot
attacker Z nt WOU,d , r : ot J have me frcm
attack,ng the enemy th„ day, a, the army had ai- pr«
z ' : SX.'Sj; .5
will T' r (o " mo,row to Ccblentx, Where I w
«• fad you iht particlar,, 3c d y=u G s
s
sof the.difpcfitions I have made. It is cot pof,
t — blc for me to write to you at greater ler.gth to-dav.
real "JOURDAN."'
:ck, St. Cloud, the magnificent palace of the unfor.
also tunate Queen of France, and ail the parks and roy.
the il domain, is to be fold under a National Cor.vcn.
lion title, for the trifling fom of 5,006!. ttcrlin- •
the palace alone cost 500,000!. in building, 3 nd the
parks and other deraenfe lands amount at Jtail t0
rie, 4,000 acrcs!
; nf r DIVORCES.
rgr An account has ju2 been publithed in Paris »f
line the divorces which have taken place in the caoi i|
for the last fifteen months. They amount to 5,994,
on, of which 3,870 were demanded by the Ladir.,
, and 2,124 by the Gentlemen ! —lt nogrcjt
honor on the good citizens of Paris, that the num
ber of Ladymakonleais ftouid be in the proportion
he of near two to one, and this notwithflaading the
ilpj scarcity occasioned by the -war !
jck A Proclamation of the F'ench General in Chief
rife in Italy orders the tailors of Milan to make 12,000
im, jackets, aHd 10,000 pantaloons for the French
log soldiers ; and the municipality of that to#n to
furnifh 12,500 ells of white cloth. 13,750 ells of
er; linen, 20,000 (hirts, 10,090 pair of (hoes, j,ooo
len pair of spatter-dashes, 2,000 hats, 2,000 ells of
ind green cloth, &c. icc. for the Republican army,
fa- These requisitions are in an trxa& conformity with
St. the Revolutionary System. "To rob those who
an, possess something, for th« benefit of those who
the have nothing." Should the application of this
principle become more genera!, there certainly caa
remain no Sans-Culottes in Europe.
LONDON, June 7.
jk, Althaugh the rapidity with which the French
:ia, have improved their advantages in Italy, be trsly
aa . alarming, and those advantages themfrlves truly
to formidable ; yet to those who have read the biftory
3re of the Wars waged by the French Kings, Charles
the VIIIth, and Louis the X,llth, is Italy, they
will aflprd no ground for despair.
The Alps, like the Rhine, have never yet been
ftv repalTed by the French, without a diminution of
-A»«f«j-greaTfy TUB re ttrcn equivalent fo~anyadvan
,o- tagc obtained by the pafiage. Whether the efta.
- e d blifhrtient of a Republic in the Milanese, and the
diffufion of their mad principles of Democracy, ia
t, e which they seem to be busily employed, will make
f es the modern French more fuecefsful than their Aa.
ceftors, remains to be proved.
hig The attempt to murder Sir Alan Gardner, ot»
Friday night, is another proof"of the great refpeft
r.t, which the Jacobin Party entertain for the freedom
of sf Election. Sun 1
if. PORTSMOUTH, June 6.
ge The following Ships are ordered on a cruize, viz.
lin London/ 8 j Vice Admiral J. Colboys,
id, \ Captain E. Griffith,
rn Queen Charlotte, no Captain Sir A. S Douglas,
ne Calar, 80 Captain C. E. Nugent. r
t 0 Mars, 74, Captain Sir C. Cotton, •
Marlborough, 74 Captain H. Nichollj.
h, Bellerophon, 74 Captain J. Loring.
n, Niger, 32 Captain E. J. Foote,
ik Sailed the Rattler on a cruize. <
y, Admiral JJligh is going to sea with the
™ Brunfwkk, 74 {c. C p
1,, Alexander, 74 Capt. A. Philip, '
,d Adventure, 44 Capt. W. G. Rutherford.
DOVER, Juae6.
Thursday evening His Majesty's Shop the
m Racoon, Capt. Roe, fell in, about sis o'clock, ivirfc
two large French Gun boats,convoying five fail of
m Dutch ivferchantmen from Oftend to Flushing \an
- engagement ensued, and continued till half pa*
). eight o clock, when the Gun-bqats and three of the
Canvoy returned to Oilend, and escaped ; the other
two were captured by the Racoon, and arrived in
the Downs yesterday. It is thought the Enetny'j
Gun-boats muit have fuffered very severely in their
men, as the Racoon's guns were ©bfcrved to rake
them sure and aft. The Racoon had one man
wounded, and Capt. Roe received a violent coeiu
fioa on his arm,
I
of _ VIENNA, May 17.
e. eight o'clock this morning, the Traitor Tsuf.
1- ferer received his sentence in public, before the pri
!°n of the Etat Major. |-Je was condemned, ac_
cording to the Military law, to be degraded from
his~Nobili:y, and afterwards hanged. He at firft
appeared very much unconcerned ; but when the
Auditor (as is the cuitom) broke the Staff, and
threw the two pieces at his feet, he began to tretn
£ ble, an£ was so mueh agitated, that he was obliged
to be fupportefd in returning to prison. The exe
-5 cution is fixed for the day after to-morrow, at eight
.o'clock in the morning.
T^ e Infant Child of Lady Jersey died fad week
' anc iuch is the grief of the Countess on this me
jancholy occafioß, that her own hoiife has become"
int /:erable to her, and /he has therefore left it to
e pay a visit to her daughter, Lady Ann Lambton,
m Berkely.fquare. Indeed, so exquisite is her fen
fibihty, that it is confidently said, it* will be necessa
ry for her to visit l.ifbon,in order to repair the ra»
® , vages which this fhoek has made an her health,
t - LEGHORN, May 6. *
1 . e 3®'* l °f last month an English Frigate sr.
e rived here, with foui French vefTcls laden with pro
, visions and Military equipage, which fce topk ia
i trie road of Vado. Tliejfi.tpublican Troops fired
son the Frigate, which answered with grap^
1 Ihot.
FRONTIERS OF ITALY, May iS.
t it was on the iuh, as we have before stated,
' that the advanced guard of the French army arri
ve.d at Milan. A deputation of the Municipality,
1 with the Archbishop at their head, were sent to
- present the keys of the town to General Ma3ens (
commanded this advanced guard. The foi.
e lowing day, the tiee of liberty was planted in the
Square of the Cathedral j the Imperial »rms were
J taken down, and the Inhabitants engaged to wear
1 t«e i>atio»al Cockade. On the and 13th,
t more French troops arrived, and the Castle was in
vetted; The Garrison is iSso'flrong, and very
"eH provided with and ammunition,
1 ; Geneial Maffen* haricg iiuatacatd it, reccired i
4, IC! rative reply- It is thought that the French will
content themselves with blockading this Fortress.
S ims of their detachment* having been sent beyond fro
Milan towards Como, in all probability, to raifc t8
contributions. —We are informed, that the body of ha'
their Army has made a movement, which feemsto as i
indicate an intention of penetrating beyond the dia
Adda, into the environs of Mantua. fur
County of Berks.—At theclofe of the fifth and
last day's Poll, the numSer were,
Mr. Dundas, - - 1332 C o
Mr. Vansittart, - - 1332 a ,
Mr. Luveden, - - 846 h j ß
Parson Home, alias Home Tooke, when he t ' h ,
talks of bis Patriotism and Consistency, (hould re- j, c
colled his former treachery to Mr. Wilkes, whom qll
lie betrayed-in the moll base and unprincipled man
ner. We (hall oscafionally refrefh his memory on ; n
this head, and revive fame few of those Anedotes, m ;
which exßiblt him in his native colours. j-
Citizen Hull, who loft his Eledlion at Maid- 3r .
stone, is the fame gentleman who was eaimined s O ,
a before the Priry Connsil a (hort time ago.—The pu
Poor Citizens have been moll cruelly treated every
where * , . « . . . be
The perfevermg itinerant Candidate, Citizen a( j,
Waddington, gave up the contest for Hertfordfhire,
when he found his principles did not at all take
with the worthy Ele&ors.
Of all the various addresses to conftituentg which ' n
we havp yet seen, that of Mr. Alderman Combe is f c
$he mod strongly marked by folly, arrogance, and °
vanity ; and exhibits an apt specimen of those ex
ertions which are to be expected from the introduc- .
tion of such a mind into the House of Coramons. "
This modest gentleman tells the livery of London, '
that by el££ling him, they have manifefted to the 01
World, an unequivocal difapprobationof the }Var,
and a spirit friendly "to Parliamentary reform ;in tr<
other words, that they have virtually ret rafted all ' ei
their public declarations on the fubjeft of the War,
and been guilty of a complete dereli&ion of princi
pie. Mr. Combe it vain enough to believe, that
his wnoderful abilities have made converts of all the
citizens of London "; >nd, > n the pSmi/iV ps hU ce
arrogance, overlooks'.the trifling objection arising co
from the re»eleftiori of three, Candidates, out of "
four, who have invariably supported the War,and ,
tigoroufly opposed th'at line of politics, which he 3^
has thought proper to pursue. But, it is not at all '
surprizing, that the extreme inconsistency of the
livery, in returning a man, whose principles tjiey Vs
had publicly and repeatedly reprobated, (hould
have exposed them to the serious charge preferred 1
against them by this Civic Popinjay. If they have 1
a just regard for, their own chara£ter, they will
take some speedy means of convincing their new
Member of his error, in as public a manner as that
in which he has been pleased to propagate it. °
Sit Watkin Lewes had, on the score of services, 1
|>y far the ftrdflgeft claim to the fuffrages-of the 1
city* of London ;and he wpuld have had those fuf- *
frages, if the other Candidates, who had fat with
him in Parliament, had not faqrifieed the cause to
a narrow and ftlfifh policy, 1 which induced them to
: look only to their own individual return, and, with
that view, to solicit fiuglc votes. The four old
Members (hould have joined hands in support of tr
the cause they all profefled to-efpo«fe. and in that <"
catc thecity ot LondoiA'would not have beer. repre- »
fentcd by a jacobin.
EDiNBUBGH,. June +. tl
Thursday the Right Honourable the Lord Pro.
,voft, Magistrates, and Council, give an elegant en- a
Certainment at H»n'er's tavern, to the Right Hon. r
Henry Dundas, Representative in Parliament for
this City ;to which a gtcat many refpcdtablc Ci- k
tizens are invited.
Frem Italian papers.—Tranjlaled for tht Aurors. I
PIACENZA, May 31. [
On the 26th inft. the French made a general at-
tack upon Beaulieu's army which extended from
Verona to Rovevedo and confided of no more than
14,000 men, infantry, cavalry and the late rein
forcements from Germany included ; they repulsed
the Aullrian light-horse and compelled Beaulieu to
rttrfat.
It is therefore believed that the Auftrians crossed i
the Adige and took the road to Trent. They 1
eould consequently not fall in with the corps of a- <
bout 30,000 Republicans of General Kellerman's '
army which passed through Brescia and filing along
the lake Di Garda advanced through Valteline in
order to reach the road of Rovetedo and cut off the
retreat of Beaulieu.
It is supposed that Mantua was invested after this <
battle. The garrifim of that place does not amount '
to more than 7000 men, which could not find time
to join Bea'ulieu's aimy after his defeat.
General Rofelmini commands the troops in the
fortrefs and the General of Engineers Orlandim
dire&s the artillery. The fortreis is provided with
amnHunition and above three hundred pieces of ar
tillery, but provisions are very scarce. Before the
place was blocked up the inhabilants sent to Ferra
ra for a lupply of provisions; but the papal legate
in that city prohibited immediately the exportation.
BOLOGNA, M»y3«-
The Cardinal Archbilhop of this eity. has ad
dressed a circular letter -to all the mDnafteries, con
vents, panfhes, Sec, by which he, being authorised
theieto by the Pope, ordains and commands, that
all the ehutch plate, gold and silver vases not indif
penflbly necessary (hall be weighed and kept ready,
for the u(e of the state.
The Arehbifhop exhorts the superiors, Sec. of
the monasteries, convents, parilhes, See. to be faith
ful and punctual in fending within siva days, the
demanded fpecification of all the plate, gold and
silver vases exiftmg in their refpeftive houses.
The prelates observe here: We ought to re
aiembcr that are citizens all and every one of
us. We ought therefore all to partake of the bur
den which divine justice choofcs to inflict upon 11s.
He concludes by assuring them that no more of the
plate than is indifpenfibly necessary, (hall be taken,
r;d that the state obliges itfelf to pay to the re-
churches the annual interest proportionate
to the intrinftcal value of the plate. This circular
letter is dated May a3, and signed by, D. A. Car.
Gienetti, Archbifhep and Apoftolicai Legate.
K v..-- < >' . t
i
•s.
' MOt)ENA, May 18,
Yesterday ten waggons laden \.vith money set off I
I from here for Milan, and we expedt momently foli<
180,000 gold sequins from where we thai
have sent aur silver coin to be exchanged for gold ; mig
1 as soon as the above sum arrives, it will be imme- ; trie
: diately fijnt to Milan, in order to make up the full (
futn which must be paid by the 22 inft. life
' May 15. S eT "
Ic affords us particular pleasure to hear that the
Count St. Romano, our ambaflador, has met with .
a most gracious reception from the French. At |,n '
his arrival at Piacenza, h# was complimented by 1 8
: the French commandant, who informed him that j
he had ordeti to escort the ambassador with a pic i
1 quet of hussars to Milan. -
The caih and nncained silver and gold collected ! '' ar
1 in thts state, amounts altcsdy to more than three j
' millions ; yet * whole million is wanting to pay the ' en .
sum due to morrow morning. The neccltary steps
' are already taktfn to procure the ftim wanted be
' fore the time expreflea, and also to' procure the P°'
'■ pun&Ual payment of the remaining sums. Our to .'
r Archbilhop, th* sooner to induce the clergy not to !*"
be backward in concurring to favc the ft<*e, has
1 addressed the most prefflng foliaitations to them.
; PARMA, May 24. dr.
The time allowed for paying the flipulated con-
1 tribntion to the French army, beifig this day olap- ,j a .
s fed, the whole sum has been remitted to the general
of brigade, Cervflni, who was detained here fliefe
several days to fettle that affair.
"Mr. D'Azara, the Spanish Minister at the court
of Rome, is arrived here, on his route to the French
Head-Quarters ; he is charged to negociate a peace
for his holiness.
We hear from Piacenza, that all the French c
troops left that city and marched to Cremona, as- '
I ter they had eonftrufied a bridge over the Po, rai- ®
fed some redoubts, and left a fufficient garrison at 1
' Piacenza, for the defence of the bridge,
t ROME, May 20. cri
e HisHolinefs Wishing in the present circumftan
. ces toprcfervitrannttiiUy-toutlieflLatcsof the Church,
* convoked the Cardinals and other ministers of go
if vernment, and agreeably to their decision, rcquefted *7
j Mr. Nichola d'Azara, minister of his Catholic Ma
jesty, yielding to the solicitations of the Holy Fa-
H ther, set out last Wednesday on his journey to the 0
French army ;he is accompanied by the Abbe IC- u '
vangelifti, chief afltftant to the Secretary o| State. §'
j • Meanwhile the Holy Father has resolved to open 31
j the'treafures of an abundant indulgence to his dear- m
eft fubjefts j duringthefeholy exercifesthe theatres n '
n will be (hut, and all kind of entertainment inter- °
# difled. .
lt The Cardinal de Hertzan, minister ef the court m
of Vienna, set out last Saturday for Ancona, where u
he will take his passage to Trieste. It is said that 111
ie * the British Prince, Augustus, might very well ftiake w
p a journey to Naples in order to take a palTage for 0
1, London in a vessel of hisown nation.
II 11
0 LONDON. I
h LORD HOLLAND AND LORD WVCOMRE. [(
d These are two young men, of whom the com
-3f munity need not be aftiamed, of whom they may j
e. ing qualities, too frequently the lot of hereditary '
wealth and station. We believe and expedt that
they will be good citizens, meritoriously a&ive for
the common weal. f
-0. They have been much together' while abroad ;
n- and they did not separate until Lord Holland was
n. returning home. jj
or Lord Holland arrived in the last Hamburgh pac»
li. ket, and he caSie to London on Saturday. Lord
Landfdowne, among other friends, eaine to town .
to meet him, and yesterday he was at Landfdowne a
1. House. He is a fine young man, and fortunately
for him, he seems very like his uncle Charles. Ac- j
i( compliftifiients, manners, temper, and we think
countenance too, indicating that temper cannot ea.
fily have more praise. Thus Lord Hulland t
and thus we hope he will be.
1 " —" Nor blame uj, if we check the plaufive firing 1
ed nQO to the'wtyward wori4 —confirm the reft'
to " Be what the purest mule would wish to fiog." a
Lord Wycombe, better occupied, stays behind n
ed in happier (cene# 1 in a country where Hnaccurfed I
ey with the blading, all ; deftroying gviilt and mifehief v
a- of corruptiofl, there has not been a war for above 1
n's two hundred years! . p
ng This inftruftive delicious countty is the Svvifs i 1
in Republic ! I r
he , Lord Wycombe is at Coper, the residence of , t
Mr. Necker! where the lake of Geneva uprising ; t
his against the garden wall, ; Mont Blanc, and the : f
int hig'.ieft Alps to Dauphine in the distance, ; r
me magnificent aslhey are, seem to (hrink on a com- j i
parifon with the objfftstn the imaginary perfpeft- ! t
:he i v c ! where with Voltaire at one end of the lake . <
ini and Rousseau at the other, amidst the concurring [
ith energies of, Haljsr, Eulet Barnouellet and Mau- «
ar- pertius, the mind advances to the more popular (
the scenes of the Democratic Cantons, where William i 1
ra- Telfand his associates, rid their country of all the
ate hideous horrors from dull, deftrtrftivc German deft
an. potifm ; where Willtam Tell and his associates sol- i
lowed by centuries of not unworthy successors, con- i
ad- tinue to illuminate and cheer the world 1 with the
an- .divine demonftration6 of truth! I
fed A man, who is desirous to fee another |
hat has oiHy to wish that his enAny would be 4 candidate \
lif- for a feat in Parliament, and if th« el?&ion is con
idy- tested, he may depend upon being gratified by
every Ipecies of merited censure or unjust reproach
of es. A gentleman, who offered himfelf for a bo
th- rough in Yorkshire, was so much impressed with
the the expe&ation of being reviled, that previous to
jnd going upon the Hustings, he assumed a veiv seri
ous face, and asked his Lady, if foe had ever been j
re- falfe to'his bed ? On her expreffmg some surprize ;
of at the question, he begged (lie would be frank in ;
iur- her answer, and added, " whether you have or not,
us. I (hallhear of it on the Hustings."
the " This eountry gets more and more polished every
:en, year : a ftiort time since there was a mafquerarle at
re- Wrexham in Noith Wales.
late A {hort waijl is graceful and feminine ; but the
alar folly of extremes has of late allowed r.o waist at all !
?ar. the stjlus (hould be worn three inches below the pre- 1
sent fafhion ; our beauties are now literally in a Jack'
' ' \
Sr.RCTrON OP M.-\l9tfS ">F PAR'r.t'fKUr. M
A common txpreflidn with i'ome old members, ing t
folicittng their cpuftituents to re-eledt them, is, T
that they are tried servants of the public $ so.me A
might fay with truth,, that they have not only been 3CO
tried, but ought to*be tonvicled. A
One of otir Pioneers modestly enough adver- have
tifes a Freehold Eflatc pojfejfmg a dejirable eontin- by tl
gency, too well known, and too highly ejlimated, to aca;
require comment or description i but another, in plain
English, informs the public that the sale nf a feat
in Parliament for the borough of , is unavoid
ably postponed! rj
lt is said that there are two persons how alive
who voted at thw* ele&ion of members to serve for K j
the borough of Southwark in thi last triennial Par- " '
| liamentv A .Sir John Lad was then their member,
! and upon th» oecafton ■ Quaker ohferved, " wc «
sent a I.arhipon an eriand tor three years, and he
(laid seven."
When Sir Robert Walpole had any material g; x
point to. carry in the House, he was accustomed Thrt
to aflc thole Members wl.o were his friends to sup 44,1
with hitn on the preceding evening, and ho Mini-
fter erer poured out more copijus libations to Bac- g^j,
chus, than he compelled his vilitois to lwaltow.
A. friend once sfked him, on what principle he ——
drenched them so unmercifully ? " With the fame '"f lll
*iew that yo dr basket-weavers ftecp their pliers the
day before they work them up ; that they may q
bend the easier.'*
„ HHiTrnrwtTmnnrtMwttw, •
BY THIS JDAY's MAILS. *
NEW-YORK, August 19. f
Saturday arrived here, his Britannic Majesty's '
Packet Halifax, Capt. Stanhope, 8 weeks from j an(
Falmouth.—She bvings London papers to the 21ft u j t
of JuYie (oneday later than by the Adelaide) but t j, e
they contain nothing of conference. w ; t
TheThifbeand Topaz, Biitifh frigates, were am ,
cruising off the Hook on Friday. ■
RUTLAND, (Vermont) Atlguft is. ottr
On Tuesday last died in this town, Mr. JjtMts c j, e
KiRKAtoiL, tfgecf 216, late printer of the Rutland
Herald. Mr. Kirkaldie was born and educated at y a
Edinburgh, and came to New- Yo-k but a few years col
ago. From November 1794 he has had the care t jj e
of the Printing Office in this town. Labouring
under a complication of diseases, he was obliged to an|
give up the bulinefs of his profeffion in May last, [ }Ul
and attend to the recovery of his Jiealth. Every
method of relief proving unavailing, the powers of a)J|
; nature have beea gradually wafting ; the Springs
of life ceased to flow, and he fell asleep August 10. j aj
His relationsand friends at New-York, are hereby
informed .that he has uniformly fuftainedthe eharac
ter here,of a* able and faithful printer, of an upright «
man, and of a serious cbritlian. Every attention a j
. was paid to him duiing his licknefs, that his (ituati- f lc
. 011 required : and 011 Wednesday his remains were w j
committed to the dust, with a decency and folem- j ai
nity suited to the occasion, and expressive of res-
peA to his memory. He has left a forrowful wi- p
dow, two young children, and friends here ca
to lament his death. on
; NEW-LONDON, August 18. T
F.xtraft aS ■»J«tt'rr f-nm ageiitUman at Port Inut e{ j
pendente, (alias Coneought) in New-Conne£ti
' cut, dated July 5, 1796, to hi* friend in Lyme. fe
' *" I arrived here yelterday, 5 .o'clock, P. M. in j n
r company with fortv-feven men and two. women,
fifty in all. I was in the frent party, walking the f c
' beach with three of my brother fuiveyors, and an
3 agent and two hands; having arrived at the weft w
line of Pennsylvania, we took a stand at the firft
point of the ieferve, and gave three cheers for
New'Conne&icut 5 we then came on two miles to
s this place, and at 6 o'clock our boats and cattle j
e arrived, and a salute of fifteen guns, to cOmmemo- w
1 rate independence, was fired, and a volley for New
Conne&icut, and a number of toasts drank with | 1(
1 great chearfulnefs. Th'* firft toast, given by Gen.
u Cleveland, was Port Independence, which is to be cJ
[' the future name of this place. It it a creek, and C£
has a ftnart ■current, tho' now uncommonly low,
and is a secure harbbur for boats, and generally
admits four or five feet of water, and is a moil
d noble mill stream. The shore of Lake Erie, where
d I walked yeftirday for twenty miles, is the best
:f watered with springs of go»d water of any country <
e I ever fawi no part of New-England is its equal.
j The land here is most beautifully interspersed with
fs i hill and dale: the (hagbark, English walnut, cher
i ry, maple, and all kinds of oak, faffafras, elm,
if | beach and ehefnut trees, art: wry plenty, and all
g : the vegetation most luxutiant. Wear# now pre
te : paring our instruments, and shall traverse a few
:, miles of the this day, and "to-morrow the g
whole gang of surveyors will set out to run dowt\
t- the Pennsylvania line, aud parallels of, five miles g
ie : d'tftant back to the lake. The only savages herea g
g ' bouts are from twenty to thirty 'of the Miflifago
i»- or Ottawa nation 5 but they do not pretend to
»r claim, any land louth of this lake, and appear to g
m be peaceably inclined. The geographical (lories
ie •of serpents here, are most delusive lies; for in tra
f- versing about 150 miles of this (hore, I have seen
>1- no more than two striped and three speckled snakes,
n- and those very small. 4 ' '
te Thomas'Starr, of Middletown, stabbed Samuel
Growell of that place a few days past, and he is
dj since dead of his wounds. The aflaffin is commit-
tt ted to prison. j
n- —— illillliaß—B—«*—
)y From a late London Paper. j
h " REMARKABLE OCCURRENCES
i)» THE YEAR, 1796-
to Tke Civil Lift in arrears fik quaiters. 1
ri- Tiie election of a member for an independent bo- .
en rough, who wasknqvynat the time to be in a state
ze i of menial derangement.
in ; A war minister led in triumph through the streets
>t, of Norwich by two ladies, who had him by the hair, -
while at the fame time a party of his friends carried
ry before him a bowl ot blood in honor of certain pro
at 1 penfities.
The said gentleman ele&ed for a great city, a- 1
he midst much exepiation of its inhabitants :
II! A gallant admiral flying from the Hustings, the
;eJ moment he was chosen, to escape Ac cetrplimeats
tk' of his conftiluems,
, f |
»*' » , /
V 1 u
Mr. Pitt making'two loans, and the people pay
, ing tor them. -
The Stocks fallen near 40 per cent.
And bread, and meat, and wine risen 200, nay
I 3CO per cent 1
And finally, the ministers and their abettors, who
■ have to aofwer for so much mifchief, again chofea
. by the people !
) ;|H » lIHIMH.I H..JI u»i ■miiTOHUiiii ■»
J ) Philadelphia,
TUESDAY EVENING, August 33.
The bridgt over HowWud's Ferry, which con*
ne&s Rhode-Island with the contine it rebuilt,
r and so far Compleated aS to be pafiable.
A London paper of the 18th June fays, that
' the price of the louis d'or at Paris was
e Kvres in affignats.
s foUH s.
Six per Cent. - ------ iifj
d Three per Cent ------ - - idfj
p per Cent. - - none for sale. - - 14/"
•_ si per Cent. --- -- v. - - t i,s
Deferred Six per Cent. - - - - 13/8 to 7
BANK United States, - - - 12 pr. cant.
'• Psnnlylvania, - - - - 30
e » '■ North "Ymerica, - - - . 46
c Insurance Comp. North-America, 40per ccnt. r.d*
Pennsylvania. 5 per ccM.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
y On London, at 30 days, per £.ioo fieri, par.
*>» at 60 days, par to 161 I-»
? at 90 days, 161 a 161 1-1
Amsterdam, 60 days, per guilder, 42
t- *- 90 days, 40
fOR the Gazette of the united states.
8 The Editor of the Sunbury and Nbrthumher*
111 land Weekly Advertiser, in .his paper of the 16th
ult. has published an account of the celebration of
II the anniveyfary of our Independence at Sunbury
with fever&l curious Toa/h,'drank on the occasion,
rc among which is the following—
" 14th. May the Yankees who are now invading
o«r t?rritori<o rom ihs fnic " of YVTiifkey boys, (3
" cheers.".}
ld It will be hardly necefTajy to refnatk that the
at Yankees to are the inhabitants of Luzerne
rs court y, who purchased and began the settlement of
re the territory said to be invaded more than 4.0 years
'8 ago. How well a toast of that malignity lmts the
anniversary of liberty 1 will not pretend to decide ;
' but I {hall run n» hazard in remarking that ft wr.t
T perfe&ly coygenial with the spirit of the company,
0 I a«d such a toalt as one might suppose would be
S 3 drank by a horde of/peculators, drunken furveyjrt,
land di/coverers and mountajn'Jelltrs at Sunbury.
I The editor, with his ufua! correttnefs and ele
*c - gance, concludes his account in these words:-*- ,
I " About sunset the muficiaris embarked on board
°? I a fail-boat and plaid some delightful pieces of mu-
I sic as they failed upon *he Sufquehanna; among
:rc I which was noticed with peculiar pleasure, the old
rt l" I favorite Yankee Doodle " It will not be doubted
I that this tune was more comfortable and more </. j
* I I'gktful to a Sunbury audience on that meriy oc»
cre I calion, than it had been to them on snore solemn
Jones, wljen played by the Tanked themfebes»
1 Thij tnne like the mufie of Orpheus hath perfornj.
.' jed wond"ers. Pinnket and his Northumberland sni
" 1 litia en! fe'lt its captivating power, and marched eft
n f' I retrogade to its mufie ; and- recently, did the afpir.
I ' n g poles of Northumberland proilrate
c "' J themselves before ,a eomp'any of Yatikecs at the
' c I found of this "favorite" tune.
a " J Let it be reeollected that th?fe sons of mjrtb
' ' I who are now so anxious to bring the Tankeet apd
' 1 I IP hijley-loys in one fate, were lately the moll ttfr
-01 I bulent oppofers of our government; so that it be
-1 !o I came neceflary to fend a company of Taniecs from
u8 I Luzerne, to reduce them to order; and that it
? 10 ' I was expedient too, for the Governor of New-Jer
' I ley, with some of his light-horfc, to do them tb«
'' 1 j honor of a visit on his return frorti the vveftwari—
e"' j Nay, so zealous were these people in the whilkey
' I cause, that they indited their chief military of£-
I cers for reading the riot a£t and proclamation to
3 !?' I the mob!
A YANKEE.
101 I Lucerne Comity, Attgufi id, 1796.
ieft j «iui" "»■ » 1 ,
itiy I GAttTTS OF TflE VffirKD STAGES MARINE XlSl*.
Lia). 1 J' . . , —— ' * 1
,; th fHIL AD £ L tHI A, eg. '
Kr . ARRIVED.
j rn< J Ship Greyhound, Green, Barbadoes, 18
a j| Brij; Lavinia, Charnock, St. Kitts, !2
Jte _ I Schooner Kitty,. Harper, Bordeaux, 56
f ew Amelia, White, Norfolk, 3
t^e j CLtAREtV.
I Ship Alexander Hamilton, Kiikbride, Liverpool
liles r^om ' Heron, Kingston
rea Schr. Expedition, Swain, Port-au-Prince
■ j Sloop Atkinfon, St. Thbma*
Ito I Swift, Mackie, Currituck.
r tQ I Arrived at the Fort,
• j Schooner Friendftiip, Monteith, Cape Franeeis
tra j Poll, Woodward, Jsremie
seen I From the Star, of London—June 22.
1 I Arrived at Liveiyool, theSulTex, Atkins, from
j Philadelphia.
nuel I .
le is I Arrivals at Nezu-Tork.— 22.
mit-1 D*y«*
I Packet Halifax, Stanhope, Falmouth 56
I Schooner Return, Norris, Jamaica 26
Larey, Bradbury, N. Providence 18
| Brig ArAerica, Whaden, Montferrat 13
Experiment, Robinson, Havatinah 18
Unity, Rogers, St. Bartholemews 20
I The Mars, M'Kennie ; Pigou, Sinclair; and
l I Young Eagle, Lord j are arrived at Liverpool from
ftat ; New- York. .
reets In the Press,
hair, J fpeed'tly will bepubiijhed, by W. Young, Mills
rried I Son, Corner of Second and Chefnut-Jireet,
pro-1 An Apology for the Bible,
In a series of letters- addressed to Thomas Paine, autnor
r, a . j of 3 book entitled The Age 'of P eafen, part the feconc,
j*beingan kiveihgktion of true and fabulous theology.
. I By RICHARD WATSON, D. D. F. R. S.
' >c I L.rd Bishop of Llandafi, and Regius Prefeflcr of X)ivin«
j ity is the VWvtrfity of Cambridge.
i Aug. . f6For sale bv the ftibfcribers* f 4id i b
J - " i>e du
IN PENK-STH F.ETj , ..
130 quarter Chests frefh Hyson Tea; j
jeo ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea; * j- a j<i ]
300 Boxes China, containing small tea fitti ef 42 ce jp t
pieces; if an}
400 pieces Bandanoes. purcl
Willings Ssf Francis. firft 1
January 30' 3taw. de^'
WANTED,
A STORE and Cellar or Compting house and Cellar.
for the Wholefsle and Dry Good business. Enquire
at No. 129 Arch-street.
For Sale at the abeve place,
500 Boxes Window Glass, 8 by 10, 7 by 9, Bcc.
500 Cream Cheeses in the best. order, imported from Sche,
Holland, and entitled to draw"back. Enquire of 0 J
Peter Borger, of
Aug. 16 aawjw th
Salt Petre.
A few tons of excellent
EAST-INDIA SALT-PETRE,
FOR SALE PT
Samuel Breck, jun. — :
Aug. 9. eo6 Rofs's Wharf. y
Lottery arid Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
' J 'ICICETS in the Canal Lottery, No.' 2, for fair—a
X Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery. .
I Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes'exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination. *<
The fubferib'er solicits" the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase orfell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property. 3;
Wm. Blackburn. 4
Philadelphia, Aupifl 18, 1796. taw
'INFORMATION
IS given daily of the drawing of tbe WASHINGTON
LOTTERY, at the Office 3;
No. Chefnul-Jlreel,
between Fourth and Fifth streets. Also, where Tickets
may yet be had. Atrg. lj. eo
gj* The Thirteenth day's drawing it arrived.
To be disposed of, -
TKE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, wh«
has between four and five years to ferv#: She
can be recommended for her sobriety and honefly. For
particulars enquire at No. 13a, Chefnut-llreet.
August 3. aawtf.
Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
NO. 1.
TT THERE AS the State of Maryland has authorised
VV the underwritten," to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, from th Po I
tßmacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I. I
Viz >1 Prize of 10,000 dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 IQ,ooo I 1
*2KSS"}
6 ditto 1,000 6,000 3
IO ditto 400 4,00 c
20 ditto 100 2,000
jj ditto jo 2,750 I
5750 ditto l* 69,008 \ I
To be raised for tin Canal, a6,2j0 I
5850 Prizes, I7JPOO
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000 I
gy- The Cemmiffioners have taken the Securities re I
quired by the aforefaid for the pun&ual payment ol I ,
the prizes. |
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without I
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely j
notice will be given. 1
Such prizesas are not demanded in fix months after the I
drawing is finifhed, shall be considered as rdinquilhed for I
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly. I
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, s/D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of WafhingtoH, Yeb.-tf. $ J
ARISTOCRACY,
An EPIC POEM,
Tn i Cantos, may he had at B. Davies's Book-Store, No. I
68 High-street. Aug. 19 §6t
Lands of the United States
Treasury Department, Jlugufl 3, 1796. j
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN pursuance of an aft of Congress, pasTed on the 18th j
day of May, 1796, entitled " A« aiSt providing " for I
the file of the lands of the United States, in the Tej-rito- I
ry north welt of the river Ohio, and above the mouth of I
Kentucky river," that the ft&ionscr lots of land defcri- 1
hed in the annexed schedule, lying in the seven ranges of I
townlhips, which were surveyed in pursuance of an ordi- I
nance of Congress, passed on the twentieth day of May, I
in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, j
will be expefed for sale at Public vendue, in the.town oil
Pittsburgh in Pennsylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of 1
O&oher next, and thenceforward, fiftm day to day until I f
the firft day ofDeeember enfuing.Tinlefsthe said lots-(hall J
be foone» fold, in the manner, and on the terms and con -1
ditions herein after mentioned, to wit:
ift, The said feAions or lots shall be fold under the di- I
rc&ion of the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter- I
ritory, and foch person as the President of rhe United 1
States mayfpeeiaity appoint for that purpose.
id. The said feflions or lots shall be fold to the highefi: I
bidder,but no sale can be made for less than two dollars J
yer acre of the quantity of land contained in such lot or 1
lection.
3. Thehigheft bidder as before mentioned, must depo- 1
fit at the time of sale, one twentieth part of the ptsrciiafe I
money, in the hands of such person as the President of the I
United States fha'.l appoint to attend the sales for that pur- I
pose, which will be forfeited, if a moiety of the sum bid, J
including the said twentieth part, shall not be-paid within I
thirtydays from the time of sale.
4th. Upon payment of a moiety of thb purchase money
in the manner before mentioned, the purchaser will be
entitled to one year 9 credit for the remaining moiety ;
and shall receive from the Governor er Secretary of the
Western Territory, and the person who shall be appointed 1
by the President of the United States, to direct the fales,a
certificate describing the lot or fjition purchased, and de
claring thefum paidonaccount, the balance remaining due,
the time when such balance becomes payable, and that
the whole land therein mentioned, will it forfeited, if the
said babnee is n«t thei paid ; but if the said' acc
he duly dilcharge'u,t>y paying the fame to the 1 restorer ei
the United States, the purchaser or his aflignce or o. ci-,
legal rcprefentative, fliall be entiiled.to a patent nr e
said lands, on his producing t'i the Secretary of State a re
ceipt for such balance endorsed upon the u
if any purchaser shall make payment of the whole ot the _ N f
purchase money, at the time when the payment o t e |
firft moiety is directed to he made, he will be entitled to a
deduiftion of ten per centum on the part fdr which a ere- nort j,
dit is authorized to be given; and his patent shan b« 1 n jj entl
mediately iffned. . ■ , . „„j defer
Given under my hand at Philadelphia, the day . cs 0 f
year abovt mentioned. ordin
' OLIVKR WOLCOTT, M
Secretary as the Treifury
—— . he ft
Schedule of feSions of to<wnfhips, or /rational port j day 1
0/ townjhips, to be fold at Pittjburgh, hi pursuance until
of the 6th fetion of an aft if Congress, Plffed on t
the 18th day of May, 1796. if!
~ 1 1 —Z TT h 'K h
<? . ? .. A J £ » dolla
s- £ •£ u. t; ■£ quar
*■ < i < 2 d < 5 V
o S. Dofn
H_ l * " chaf<
ift Range. 6thTownfhip. 6th Rangk. Stat<
ift Township. Ran 640 each lft Township. inch
28 565 14 640 17 '3|W> th,r!
19 256 95 17320640 each 18 i7O :
30 250 75 2/336640 each 21 850 ney
34 240 90 BthTownfhip. 21 166 40
35336 640 each 3ai4|64oeach 23 4^7
2d Township 17320 640?3ch 24 640
19 140 23 [640 27 Jsl
»o 170 7® 25 a 3 0 j640eacii 640 each
21 185 33336 640 each ai<i
22 230 lothTownfhip. 34 a i6 640(each £
25 488 80 132 640 each idTownfhi)?.
*»6ai7 640 each sai464oeath I (h a ll
28 560 17320640 each * 440 uc ;
29 551 60 23336,640 each 3 44* endc
30 564 12th Township. 4 456 mak
640 each 1314 64c each 5 464 time
4thTownfhip. 17a20 040eath i 473 ben
19 64 234361640 each 7 34° cent
-a %*,
.1 i* nijUtc-Mh
31332 64oeach 3*! Township.
34 44? 20' 30 do 50 I i7 °l
\1 d sr
11 479 30 3 , a6 7314 640 each _
17 304 tj I , A 17520 640 each
18 638 50 , , 640 each
23 450 75 I!' sthTownfhip. ,
14 640 13 I3Jl 3 J 1 fl« M
29 184 , 2 a 6
17*10 640 each ' OcJ
3 iJ 1314 640 each f, :z
2dR A NG£. .7320640 each u £ o fa r ch
ift Township. 13.36 640 each „ o6
28 j 720 66 aLh I
34 1 6| s ® 1 >14 640 each , thTownfhip . 2
3d Township. 17320 640 each T
I 24326 640 each 233361640 each S I
28 499 16 7thTownfhip.
29 640 ' 132 640 e 3ch g 6o
37333 64c each 537 640 each, 5 J
I 4ownfliip. TTtfrj each i _ I 5
I, 26 40 ißai 9 64© eachj ?ai4^each
» 397 50 25 640 l ao 640 each
13 51 50 30a 3 6 640 each 6 6 ach . j
15 27 50 9thTownfhip. thTown(hi
16 259 20 iai 4 64c each , 640 each
17 524 i 7 32o|64ee3ch , 7 „ 06 eleh
I A 4" 4 L i l 3 a 3«64oeach"
19 635 1 «hTownfhip. irthTownfhi
20 584 80 i ar 4 640 each 6
2! 636 21 , 7 3»0|640[«ch f „. 640, each
22336 640 each 23336 640 epch ' 6 I ach
! JthTownfhip. i^thTcwnfhip.
T it v lal4 M i3i 4 6 4 c|each
«*7 64«e3th 17 4206 4 0 each c6 M ch
ie 23325 64c cach 7. 3 a36|6401e2ch
ir I 27at 4C.ac JthTownfhip. J
1 ~iT„™„n.- C iftTownfhtp. iai4!6i}o|each I
JthTownfhip. ig j?4 .P 1?M0640 L h
> SthTownfhip. " g ' -5® 3 6 64o!each
I J35 64oeach 13 417 50 7th Range. I
6 440 w 40 ift Township.
7314 640csch 2 30 1 4! 20 I a
I 17120 640 each 1 io 36 J132150 j
33 ,bT 64 °r h each *aTow,fhip.
_ I 9thTownfhip. ' * 3 35 I
6 640 „ ,9. s n 4 6il: 1
8 312 30 ' . 640 each I
II 64c 33136 640 " Ch 9
0.l 13314 640 each v ou n^ l 'P- ieai2 640 each I
19320640 each 4 18010 14 30
I 23336 640 each 3 43« ijaiS 640 each I
— 445 ~ I
3d Ranch. 5 456 ' 5
2d Township. 6 46480 6^cleh
15 640 7 2 e *8c
or ' 6 600 8 6 ' B So each
" »° 557 50 9 ai4 640 each 4th 3 | ownflllu .
"«*« 4 *«ch 17 >20 64c each
ri- 13 , 6 ,° 9 . J3i36 64 l e . ich 1 7 320 6 4 oeach
of I' 4 23136 64c!each
li- 3d Township. 1 ai4 6 4 o|each
9 ,8860 i 7 a2o6 4 oeaA .
'e, I 1° 344 13 336 640 each elch
0( « 267 6thTownfhip. 2,336'640 each
of 12 152 1314640 each jjthTWnftup.
itil !4 202 JO 17320 6 4 oUach K
allj J 5 630 13336 6 4 cp3ch 4 4 , I
, n .} 16318 64c e3ch BthTownfhip. 17a " 4C eac^
j 19 21750 13.4 640 each 640 each
di- 10 6*6 75 17320 64c each LothTownfhip. I
er-I 21a36 640e3ch 13336 640 e3ch ! lal 4 040 each 1
ted j 4thTownfhip. lothTownfhip. I7a2 ° 40 eac J l I
1 170 la.4f64oleachi J 3»3^ 4 oleach
2 544 17 a2cp4o|ea-ch 1 Township.
lar ' , | 3 32° 23 a 36'64oienh i 1314 '4<"ieaeh I
-I 4 450 nth Township. |I7"< ->4 c -a<h j
I 5 lit lai4l64cleach > 43 fA r I
P 0 "! 6 64c i7a2cH 4 c|each JthTownfhip. 1
iafc 7 563 J3»36|64o|each! lal #4o|each
c I Ba9 64c each '14th! ownfhip. 640 eacn
! u '"| 10 54c 80 iai 4 |64o|each 23336 6 4 c each
•"?'! II 529 70 17aic 640 each "thTownfhip.
laai4 64G .;ach 23336*640 each ial 4 64o|each
1 7 32 c 64° ;ach 17120 640 each j
[be 22136 640 each 1 1 I
-ty; NOTE. j
f the THE-quantities of Lands in the fereral townships be- I
nted fore mcnt.oned, are exclusive of the Lots reserved by the |
es,a Un ted States and also of those formerly fold.—The ag. |
gregate quantities in the several townfhins or fractional I
due, parts of townships, have been ascertained by adlual fur
that vey ; the quantitiasin particular lots or fed ions, hive
. the been no otbtrwife »fcertai H «i than by calculation.
Lands of the United States.
Treasury Department,
Augujl 8, 1796. =
Public Notice is hereby given, e*
TN purfuanceof an a<Sl of Congress passed on the 18th
1 day of May, 1796. entitled "an ait providing " for 6
the fall of the Lands of the United Satis, in'the territory 3
north-weft of the river Ohio, and above " the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the Quarter Townlhips ot land
delcribed in the annexed schedule, lying in the I>jveil rang- -
, s „t townlhips which were furvcyed in pursuance ol an
ordinance -f Congress, faffed on the twentieth day of
Mav in the rear one thousand sevan hundred and eighty
fivZ'will he expefed for sale at PUBLIC VENDUE, at
he Merchant?' Coffee-Houfe in Philadelphia, on the 4th
day of January next, and thenceforward from day to day,
• until the tenth day of February entiling, unless the fmd
. quarter townlhips shall be'fooner fold, in the manner and
on th« terras and conditions hereinafter muitiowed : viz.
lit. The laid quarter townlhips shall be fold to the
' hifrheft bidder, but no sale can be made for less than two
dollars per acre-os the quantity of land contained in such
quarter towwfkip. ,
id. The bidder as beforS mentioned, mult de
oofit a' the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur
" chafe tnon«y, in the hands of the Treafttrerof the' United
States, which will be forfeited if a moiety of thefumbid,
including the said twentieth part, (hall notbs paid within
thirty days from'the time ttf sale.
id. Übon payment of a moiety of the purchafc-mo
ney in the manner beformientioned, the purchaser will
be entitled to one year's credit for the remaining moiery ;
and (hall receive a certificate describing the quartar town-
Hip purchased, and declaring the sum paid on account,
the balance remaining due, the time when such balance
becomes payable, and that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not then
paid ; but if the said balance shall be duly discharged, by
paying the fame to the Treasurer of the United States,
tljrf-purchafer or his aflignee or other legal representative,
lhall be entitled to a patent for the said land, on his- pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
endorfedupon the certificate. But if any purchaser shall
make payment of the whole of the purchafe-raoney at the
time when the payment of the firft moiety i« directed to
be made, he will be entitled to a deduiftion of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to be
give« ; and his patent (hall be immediately i(Tiled.
QWF.N under ray hand at Philadelphia, the._iay
and year abovementioned."
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary vf the
SCHEDULE
Of Quarter-Town (hips to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
suance of the 6th feftion of an aft of Congress palled on
the 18th day of May, 1796.
5 'eu
» g £
6 -.s* K |
bC r°
s c 5 u. ft
St > o
« o 3 u z-=
c_ H u n "
*8 Z - Z 8 3
U- <u flirt G
0 ° r ■ .s
Zos 4 "
z o | -a
2 Soath East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
-20,480
3 ■ South East j 120 ' ■
, East 5120
South' Welt 5120
North Weft 5120
■ 110,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5! 20
South Weft j 120 1
North Weft 5120
— 1 20,480
1 9 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 1 20 I j
• 20,480
I II South East 5120
North East 5120
j South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
— 50,480
1 4 4 South East 15120 •
I North East 5120 f«
South Weft 5120 ''
North Weft 5120
— 40,480 o
j '6 South East 5f20
I North East 5120 -
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
j 8 South East 5120
North East 5120 1
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120 c
20,480 I
10 Socth East 5120 1
North East Jl2O a i
Sonth Weft j1 20 <
North Weft 5120 1
j 20,480
12 South East; 5120
North East 5120.
j South We(t 5120
North Welt 1 5120
| I 20,480
I 5 3 South East! 4602
North East 4654
South Weft 5120
J North Welt 5120
19,496
j 5 South East 5120
j North East 5120
, j South Weft 5120
t I North Weft 5120
I 20,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5120
' 1 vSeuth Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120 I
5 be- J 20,480
y the I 6 9 South East 5 120
ag " I North East 5 120
'fur- I Seuth Weft 5120
have! North Weft 5120
—— 20,480 J
' 3
'V, : ' . • •
CU JZ
• • — u —
U rC O C
bC . W
§ ..£• s «« •
; f H t i%
'■ d 5 < Is
a, ** s, s.c
z <§> =':
j 11 South East 5 120 ~~ ~
North East 5120
South Wefl 5120
North Weft 5120!
i 20,480
13 South Eaftjwoj
North East 5 12Q'
South Weft 5 1 zcy
North Weft 5 1 20!
f 20,480
6 4 South East 4630
North East 4620)
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
19,490
6 (South East 4730
North East 4715
South Weft 5 120
North Weft j 120
191685
8 South East 5120
iNorth East j 120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
10 South Eaftjiiol
North East 5 120
South Weft j 120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
12 South East 5120
North East 5 120 ~
- £ „ _____ South Welt 5 rw» .
North Weft 5 120
110,480
14 South East 5120
Nwth East 5 120
South Weft 512 c
1 Norik Weft 5120 |
20,48®
•7 3 South East 5120
Noith East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 12° I
40,480
5 South East 5120
North East 5120
' South Weft 512°
North Weft j 120
10,480
» South East 5 130
North East 5 120
South Wefi 5 120
North Weft 5
120
20,480
9 South East 5120
North East
South Welt 5120 — jjs* L^: "
North Weft ? 120
20,480
11 South East 5 120
North East 5T 20
South Weft 5 720
North Weft 5
120 i
20,480
13 South East 5120
North East j 120
South Well 5 120
• North Weft 5120
20,480
15 South East 512s
North East y1 2®
ISouth Weft 5 120
(North Wefi 5120
| 20,480
NO|TE.
THE quantities of 'Lands in the several towtifbips be
fore mentioned, are cxcluGve of the Sections reserved by
the United States The aggregate quantities in the feve
ral-townlhips, have been ascertained by a&ual survey ; but
the quantities in the quarter tewnlbipj, have been 00
otherwise ascertained than by calculation.
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick Houfc,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOT ef GROONl) thereunto belonging,
the weft fide of Third-street, near Union-street
containing in front 31 feet, and in depth 109 feet, to an
alley leading into Union-ftrcet. The houfa is 31 feet front
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
large, commodious, and completely finilhcd; the two firft '
stories are each 13 feet high; there are 10 mahogany
doors in the house j a geometrical flaircafe, with mahoga
ny rails and a g»od Iky-light. The kitchen is in the cell
ar, which is spacious and convenient, and finilhed with aa
oven, stew-holes and pantries, a servants' hall and large
winc-cdllar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an
area in which there is a pump. The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat three-story
brick house, on the north fide of Union-street, contain
ing 30 feet front by feet deep; the lower part of which
is at pfefent occupied as a compting-houfe, and the uppef
part divided into wall-finilhed large chambers. This house
may at a small expense be converted into a convenient
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the front
and back have Venetian window-lb utters. Adjoining the
Jaft house, upon the lot belonging to the fir ft, are erected
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good coach
house and ftablesfinifhed equal [or nearly lo) with any '«
the city, On a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
in depth 011 the wait fide of said alley ja feet. There are
good cellars undei the whole of the buildings, and a wine
room over part of theftable, with a hay-loitover there
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD BONS.M-L & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Doek-ftreet. between Walnut Sc Pcir
co llrccu.
6th month 24th, 1796.
' ' • 1
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119-—
CHE S NUT-STREET*
[Price Eigkt per Ansmr.,]
5