) ,
of the llmfCfc States, 6 s Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NUMBER ji 9 i.] SATURDAY EVENING, JULT 2, \YOl.vmu X.
For Sale or Charter,
I"T' THE SNOW
BOSTON, £
BUX i'aut 2000 BbU. of flour —fee may be sent
to <ti at 1 i .nil expnce, her fails and riggin* being m »
▼cry good order—apply t« v
"James Campbell, or
Geerge Latimer.
April, 2<J. t —
Imiow Hebe.
—FOR SALE, £
I'm Show 11 E It E, ci
A fiit'i.'ul Philadelphia built veUel, car
n?T-ooobuaielsot" grain or 2600 barrels Sour, is rea- -
rJSy SktU 'pErtß r SG°HT. .
Who has for file,
Sugar, Coffee, Cocoa, and Pimento.
Also, i,
A Parcel of CHOICE POkT IVINE t
June 6 u
For Cadiz, ai
To fail on or about the 2,5 th inft. from 3
The Ihip Hazen,
Excellent accommodations for palfengers. For piflage
only apply to Miller and Hoop;, at N:wA r ork; or to -
the Printer hereof. [June Ij. jjwj
FUIR. SALE, ]
THE c-areo of the Ihip Catharine, John Farraday, mas
ter, from H'.fpaniola, at the wharf of Messrs. Jeffe & Ro
bert Wain,
Consisting of
156 Hog&eadsof SUGAR
fj Haglheads") COFFEE
s?8 Bags i
44 Hhds.of Clarified MOLASSES
72 Bales of Cotton
, ALSO ro* SALE,
The said fiiip,.
BURTHEN about 24 or 1500 barrels—
Stroog, well found, and may be sent to
at a frnall expense. Apply to
John Crhig.
fuce IX §
-UNITED STATES, ]7f ,
Pennsylvania District, j
Notice is hereby given, 0
That in parfuanceof a Writ to me dire&ed, Jrdnatfie i.
honorable Richard Peters, Efquite, Judge of tb<e j.
jßifiridl Court of the United States in and for tlse Penu-
fylvania Difl.ri<si, will be exposed to Public Sale, at the c
Merchants* Coffee-Houfe, in the cjty of Philadelphia, on
Tucfday the sth day of July next, at 12 o'clock at noon, f
Xhe Schooner or *efTel<*lled the
With all a»d singular her tackle, &c The
fame having been condemned within said court for the
payment of Mariners' wages, &c.
William Nichols, Marjhal.
Marflial's Office ") " —§
June 11, 1796. / "
For Hamburg,
THE AMERICAN SHIP
g|g& HARRIET,
Thomas W. Ncrman, Commander,
A remaikable fine, fail-failing (hio, with excellent accom
faodaiions for paflengers. "A confiderablepartof ler cargo i§'
engaged and read\ to go on board, and is expe&ed to fail in
10 days. For freight or passage, apply to the faptain on
board, the lower fide of Walaut-ftreet wharf, or to
Peler Kuhn.
' «, ,June 28 ? o
T. NOBLE; ~
BROKER,
TD ESPECTFULLY informs his friends and the j
public that he has removed his office to his house Mo. ,
i 47»Chefnut Street, next door to his former residence, where, {
Bbfinefs in the line of a Broker, are faithfully tranf*
afbe d : Money procured to any aoiount at a momerJi's r.etice. ! t
also, i e
WILL be kept a numerical book of the drawings of *W ;
the Lotteries now extant —Eor the purchase of Tickets, infor- | '
mation w|ll be given asufual. Canal Tickets iff the second {
Claifs.are now for sale. From every information received*,
Lottery will abfo'utely commenced a few day*.
June 24. d t.f.
~~ Mr. FRANCIS,
j. (Of the New "Tbealrt)
TAKES this oppormnity a£ returning thanks to his
frholars and to .the public, Mr. Francis intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aea
dpmy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. H$
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any promises of conducing his future
Schemes on the moil liberal and ftri<fteft terms, of pro
priety, totally unneceflirv.
N. B. Private tuition as usual.
TO LET,
Readv furntftied, for three or four months, certain,
\ GENTEEL three hrick house, No. 70,
/\ North Eighth-street. For terms enquire of '
Mr. Francis as above.
ywie. 28. 1
Landing,
Tlrfo Day, at Willings & Francis's wharf, from Jtbe Brandy
wiae Miller,
A cargo of Rurn &
from St. .Croix.
For Sale by
John Nixon & Co.
•Jonr-rig ;" .
4 Poft-Chaile wanted.
« WANTFD immediatelv to ourchifc, a fWone-hand Pjft-
Chaise, \yith Haruefs for two horses and Brass Furniture.
It mult be in good cond'.iioo. ~
Enquire at No. 73 south Froht-ftreef.
" *3 _
Bank of North-America.
J*ly i, 1796.
AT a meeting of the Dl'tSirs, = Dividend «!< o«cUred
&ix rr* cknT. for ihc bft half \ear, which will
bt ptiil 10 ihe&octbold«i» any time ifier the : oth ii.Han .
By crtder of th- B^ari,
bo JOHN NIXON. •• T'cfideni.
Take Notice,
' 1 'HAT the Subscriber intends to mass applica-
X tion for the renewal of a Certificate, No. 1609,
for 4000 dollars, dated the 14th December, 1795, bearing {-
interefl at 5 per cent, from/ift January, 1796, in the
name of D2vld Dunderdale & Co. of L»eds, in Y<irk- *
1 fliire, merchants. The fame is supposed to have been loft e
on its way to New York, under cover to Bleecker &.
March, of that place, on the 6th of January lalV
Thomas M'Euen.
Philadelphia, sad June, 1796. §6w
Wanted,
A YOUTH of from 12 10 i£ years of age, of rcfpe&able
character js an Apprcatlce to the Mer
cantile bufmefi.
Apoly to the Printer.
.1"" e 8
CINCINNATI.
THE Members of this Stare Society are herebv notified I
that theii Anniverfiry Meeting, for the purpose ol e!e£b»
ing Officers of the Society, and tranfa&ing such other bufi- PI
ness as may come before them, will be held on the 4th day of bl
July next, in the Stare House, at 10 o'clock in the morning :
where their pun&ual attendance is rerj efted. After the La- Y<
sines» is the iiciety will adjourn to Mr. O'Ellers s; e
Hotel, in order to celebrate the birth-day of our Fr e edom
and Independence. The dinner will be on the table at
1 3 o'C'ock. The Members of the other State Societies of the In
Cincinnati, who may be in this city on that day, arc particu
larly invtied to join in celebrating it. *
By order oft the (landing Committe,
ROBERT PORTER,SecVy.
, J une *4
A small Invoice o
PER the ship Harriet, capt.Thomas W.Nprraan, from
Hamburgh, oonfifting of
3 Ravens Duck,
Dam?(k and 1 Tjblc c , o , hs
JUiaper j
Holland Linen i
Cambrics, &c.
AD SO,
/ o<
a skat Assortment or
Gold and silver Watches.
Which will be difpefed of together or by the package*
Apply to
Isaac Harvey, jun.
0 No. 5 South Water Street. .
June 2s §3w I
TEN DOLLARS REWARD. T
LOS T, «
JUNE fjth, between Shippenand Market streets, a red
\ OROCCO POCKET BOOK, containing a Check f 5
on the Bank of the United States, drawn by Peter and lC
e Henry Mierckenin favor of Mr. R. Potter, (or i ,oOC» dol- "
J lars. axtd fevecal' rotes of hand past due; together with a
~ share in the New Theatre, and several Other papers of no
e conlequencc but to the owner.
n Whoever will bring it to No. 136 Market street, shall
» receive the above reward. , ,
Payment of the Check is flopped at the £ank.
Jane 15. § a]
e Sales of India Goods.
■ a;
The Cargo of the ship Gan^ 5 , capt. Tmgey, from Cal'
cutta and bengal,. r ,
CONSISTING OF a(
A Large and general affoftment of Bengal and Madras
CO PTON and SiLK GOODS. -j
AMONG WHICU ARE r<
A variety fine worked and plain Muslins,
- Doreas, Isfc. A!fo,
A Quantity of ExceVtnt Sugar, i;
4n boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER.
15 ". i. . For Sale by
" Willings & Francis,
No. m Pern Street.
June 8
Fifty Dollars Reward. j!
L 0 S Ty ' c
THE last evening, between 5 and 7 o clock, a larpe Red
MOROCCO POCKET-BOOK, cootainin® 20 or 30
e Kotesof Hand (inclosed in a Parchment) to a confioarable a
mount. Also, sundry pa)wrs. l "ol • 6 per crnt.
• Hock, a deed of a house a id lot in Middjetown, Stc <4; &c.
f* j The above reward wiH be paid on delivering the fame t«
j the Printer hereof. Asiiisdl great confeqaence to the own- v
; er, it is hoped it will not be withheld. u
| The payment of the Notes is stopped.
ill j June 99 v
f I New Hat and Hosiery-store,
J f WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,
_ By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
No. 134 Marhet-Jlreet,
Third door from the corner of Fourth, feuthfide
Men's Black American and Engtifh HATt, of various qua
-1 litics and prices
Ditto Drabs and Green unders
Ladies' ditto, black, and a large aflorrmertt of fancy do.
. Coloured Beavsrs, With a great variety of elegant and
lI " fashionable Trimmings
re Youths Black and Drab-coloured do.
o- Children's fancy do
All kinds of Silk, Silk & Cotton, Cotton & Thread HOSE
Knit, coloured Paataloons
Do. Drawers
Do. Breeches Patterns
, Silk Gloves.
o, Knoaed, coloured do. Cotton
G f A'quantity of Mending Cotton, sorted c«Tonrs.
The Hats finifhed in the newest fafhion.
June 27. eo«m
Rofs & Simfon,
HAVE FOR SALE, 1
French Checks 1
Stripes
Printed Cottons
Mufline:s
Table Cloths and Napkins
Nankeens of an excellent quality per the package, fit
for the Weft India market, and entitled to the Drawback
~~ Grey jn bags
Superior cldSKerry in quarter calks
A few pipes and quarter calks Lisbon Wines
June 22 5
For sale by the fubferibers,
IN P£NK-ST*EtT,
130 quarter Chtfls frelh Hyson Tea;
ico ditto do- frelh Souchong Tea;
360 Boxes China, containing small tea setts of 42
' f d pieces;
- 400 pieces Bandanccs. s
Willing Francis.
January 30 3taw.
*
—
Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the lateil arrivals from Europe and
the East It dies 1 well fele&ed affortmexit of Silk
Mercery, Linen DrapeTy and Haberdaibery Goods; which
he will fell, wholesale and Retail, on theloweft terms ;
a,mongst which are,
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and silver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aad Mulmu! ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some ettra black taffeties,lu« firings and colorad Persians
Bandano Hanakerchiels
Long apd fliort Nankeens
EnglWh Mantuas of the firft quality
Damatk-tabfe tr.cn Mdimpkins, fiaS,
Silk Hoficry," an elegant assortment '
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irish Linens', do. &c. &c. . June 14 $
A Genteel family wiih to rent a CO(JN FY SEAT? *
in an agreeable situation, within a few miles of
Philadelphia." If Furnilhetl, it would be more agreea- r
ble. V "
Apply personally or by letter to Mr. Taylor, at Dr. 1
Yeatman's, No. 225, South second street, corner of
Second street- June 6. j
Just Arrived,
In the Soow Boston, James Kirtpatrick, master from Li- I —
verpool,
Jooo Bulhels SALT ;
ico Crates QUEENS WARE ; and
An Aflortment of SHIP CHANDLEKY j I ✓
forsale |V
On board, at Pine-street wharf. Apvly to 7
yanies Campbell, or nc
George Latimer.
April 19. $ on
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and 1.01, in Chefnut | ar
street, betweea Front and Second ftrcets, in which f p
Meifrs. James Calbraith &.CO. have ior many years (and cs
now do) carried on business. ! ur
Pofleflion will be given in one month, or sooner. 1 G f
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or Jve
HECTOR CALBRAITH*
April 21. $ jeu
Samuel Richardet, co
p ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen |
fv Merchants, that he has this day opened the CrrY j dc
TAVERN and MERCHANTS C©FFEE HOUSE io the I
city of Philadelphia. j
The Subfcrii "ion Room will be futnifhed with all the 1
daily papers puMiftied in Philadelphia, New-York, Los- I
ton, Baltimore, together with thoie oi the princ»p?l com- I
merci&l citi%s of Europe—They will be regulajiy filed 1
and none pcr/iiitted to be taken away oil any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety ;
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments, I Cu
will at ajr times V.- procured at the bar. I
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with J
the choicoft of Wines, Liquors, and the moil 1 P
approved Malt Liquori froLC.Londcn and other breweries. J L
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest | S;
of tho Season. J S<
Large and fniali Parties, or single.Gentlemen, may be 1 V
accomodated with Breakfafta, Dinners, or Sappers, at 1 C
lionrs mox*! C3nv nientto themselves—a cold.C.dfl 3 " oll Q
reguUrly kept for ccnveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had I
arths bar. j
' The Rooms will be completely furniftied, and 1
the attention paid and every other I
requiiitc. v • ' £>•« I
gjT S\mbel RiCHAapET will be hsppy to receive, and I
execute the commands.of his.Friends, and the Public at j
large; and with gratitude ior their lavours, he pledge J
himfelf th*t nothing on his part fhalt be wanting to pre
fer ve th4t patronage with which he has been so diftinguiih- 1
ingly itor.ored. N
P'nifadelphia. April 19. [ I
TO BE LET.
\ LARGE Commodious dwelling House, No. U4
ML Spruce street, with a convenient liable and Coach, j _
House, —Also for sale a Chariot but little the worse for j
nfe. June 2. eott
George Dobson,
BECS leave to inform the Store-Keepers in Town and
Coumrv, that he has lemovci from M»rket-Street to |
; N°- 25, south Third-street,
• where he is opening a Large and-Elegant ASortment cf the I
cnderme«Moned articles—rvia- | t
Supeifine London Cloths and Kerfevmeres,
Yorklhire second l)o. . Do. I
Elastic do. ao
Mix'd and $iue Coatings
> Flannelli, Sic. J
Manchester Printed Callicoes, j 1
London Chintz ditto, 1
Blue and ditto Furnitures,
India ditto.
Long Cloths, CofiaeQ, Baftai, Battillas& Conjevrems> i
4*4. S"H u P cr^ne India Book Muslins, j {
4-4 and 9-8 India Book Handkerchiefs, 1 t
4 4 aod 9-8 Scotch ditto, I i
4-4 £.6-4 p'aindo Muslins, j <
i 4-4 &. 6-4 Britifti Jaconets, 1 (
6-4 Britilh Checks and Stripes, I ]
4-4 India do. do, do. j j
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerch'ffs, t
A large abutment of figur'd and plain Mufltnets,
Qyiltings, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
Fanev Wairtcoatings. j '
Qifighims ol.ihe firft Quality, fubjearto Drawback,
India Nankeens, 1 .
Meu's White and coloured Si 'k ftockiugs.
M,y Q 1
Yazoo Lands.
May be haJ at the Editor's Office 119, Chefnul-JlrtJ» t
A few Copies of " a Report of the Attorney j
Geneial to Congress containing a Colledion of ■
Charters, Treaties auj other DoctiMTNTs,
relative to and explanatory of the I ltle to the Land I
Imiate in the South Weftem parts of the United I :
States, and claimed by certain Companies under a j
it law or the State of Georgia, passed January 7th. |
: '795- I
Lottery and Broker's Oflice,
N Q 64 South Secant! street, _
' npiCKF.TS in the Canal Loticrj'. No. 11, are now rea
-1 dy fer sale, a Check Book kept for rise erimin ition
of Tickets, and Pr:ze= paid, without deduSiou.
The Subscriber solicits the app!ic;rion o'. the Public or |
any ot his iriends who wilh to purch fe or fell Bank Stock, 1
Certificates, Bills.of Exchange, or Notes, Houf-'-, Lar.ds,
„ Lotts or M rchaudiie of any kind, or to obtain iVJoney |
on depoCt of property. '
WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
Late Ager.t for the Canal Lottery Company. [
June 6. w&s
RECEIVED,
By the Brtg iPetc'-mc Refiin:, Jrbm Savannah, ,
27 Bales COTTON.
tSy the Schooner Ali'ail, from Cnjrlefln,
100 Caiks Prime RICE.
And, by the Schooner '"John, from Bcuon,
SEWING-SILKS, various colours,
GURRAHS
COSSAHS, and India Bmdanno Hmdkchfs.
For Sale by
N. & J. Frazier,
No. 9?, South Front ftre*t-
V/h: hatx clfo ■on band, and for Sale,
Prime Bniton b££F-, its — .
feE 1 ,] W.KSS,
Carolina INDIGO, &c. &c.
May 31 mw&fim
r .
A Small I;."Joict if
CAMBRICS,
Sitle, by
N. & J. FRAZIER,
No. 95, -SoutU Front-Street.
June 18. rwjiatrt
FOR SALE,
A. very Valuable Estate,
ALLEB TIV J T T£-N H A M, fituatc in the
I V>i towrJhip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaw: re,
1 7 1-2 miles from Phiiad Iphia, and half a mile from the
I new Weft cm road: containing 230 acres of excellent land,
1 45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prfine wood
-1 land, and the reft arable of the firll quality. There arc
on the preroifes a good two story brick house, with a rooms
j on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
jof excellent water in front; a large frame barn, liabLs,
: and other convenient buildings.; a smoke-house and ilone,
1 fprmg-houfe ; two good apple ordiards, and one of peach-
I I es. The fields are ail in clover, except those imme<tiate!y
1 under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
I of water in each of them, whick renders k peculiarly con-
I venient for grazing.
The situation is pleafar.it and healthy, and from the h»~r
j cultivation of the land, the good and th:
vicinity .to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
country feat.
! j The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
' j deceased. and offered Jorfale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Oil. 9. eo.J Surviving Executor.
: China Goods.
I ' I H E Ship Atlantic, SHuj Swain*, -Commander,
. J A ' from Canton, will commence the difciaarje. of her
I cargo to-morrow mOrning at VVilnut-flreet wharfr
I _ ConJJling of
1 Yellow and white Naukeeu&of excellent quality
I jPcrfiao Taffetics, black and coloured
i. Luftrinps, do. do.
1 I Sat tins black as various qualities
I Sewing silks in allotted colours
c J Vermillion in boxes *
£ 1 Cassia in cheils , ,
' I Quicksilver in jars
d iJOHEA, 1
;| "SOUCHONG, j
d HYSON SKIN, *; T, /i, nr
r young hyson > *reln leas.
, BEST HYSON, I
? IMPERIAL, J
s J CHINA WARE, ornamental, with Table and Tea
[ Sets generally afibrtsd.
WHITE SUGARS, and a quantity of
I Fi)H quality Bengal SALT PETRE.
For Salt-, by
Philip Nicklin & Co.
4 April 8. t.th&s
J
>r PROPOSALS,
By BIOREM Vf- MADAN,
~ For publishing by Subscription, that celebrated Work,
d Godwin's Political justice.
to From the last London Edition.
I TERNS.
I. It will be ptibliihedin tw» large volumes, diiode«imo.
K j II; Price to Subscribers.two dollars,handfotntly bound,
I to be paid on delivery of the work,
I . 111. As! soon as a number of Subscribers appear, fuffi-
I cient to defray the expeHce, it Iball be put to pref*.
I IV. The names ef the Subscribers shall be prefixed.
J: .. The following Chara&er of this work
is eitrafled from the Monthly Review, p. 311, 312, for
1 . . Mkreh, 1793-
I !' We have no-fmssll degree of-pkafnre in announcing
j the work to our readers ; as one wh eh. from the
I lietdom of itseoquiry, the grandeur of itsviews, and the
j fortitude of its principle, is eminently defersing of atten-
I tion. By thfreulogium, we would by 1.0 means be under
j stood to fubferibe to all the principles which these volume
j contain. Knowledge is not yet arrived at that degree of
1 certainty which is requisite, for any two men to think a
j like on all fobjeds; neither has language attained that con-
I fiftent accuracy, which can enable them to convey their
thoughts, even when they do think alike, in a manner per
fe&ly correct and intelligible to both. These difficulties
I are only td be overcome by a patient, inceflant, and bene
] volent inveftigatien.
" Many of the opinions which this work contains, are
I bold ; foaae of them are novel; and fomc doubtless are er
' roneofc —but that which ought to endear it even to those
— whose principles it may offend, is the strength of argu
ment.adduced in it to prove, that peace and order moll ef-
I feSually promote the happiflefs after which political re
formers are panting ; —that as the progreli of knowledge
L-y ! is gradual, political reform outfit not to be precipitate ; —
of and that coiivntfive violence is dangerous not only to icdi
s vidaals (for that rcfulc comparatively would be of small
accoffnt) but to the general cause of truth. It i< the op
-1 polite cf this principle that inspires the enemi?scf pofitic
—■' I al enquiry with so much terror ; it is the fn 'pou" ion that
a j change muft'inevitably be attended by the turbulence and
h, injullice of commotion; an.l tjlit innovation c r.not be
j made without the intervention of evils more dettru&ivc
— than those which are intended tpjaexelormed. Under the
I cocviclion of this philanthropic sentiment, of calm ami'
I gradual refcrm, (which in its proper place he has fully :i-
I luftrated) Mr. Godwin proceeds without firlltoen
" j quire into prefeut evil, through its effetitial branches, ar.d
I next to dciijomtrate future good.
I "" Dividing his Work into eight books, and making tjil
c ,J iufHTiNCC or Political institcti«vs the iubjeci of
| the £rft, he begin s by an attempt to prove th* omnipo-
I tence of government ovy the moral habits of mankind ;
' 1 »nd that cn thele moral+abits their wisdom, virtue an.l
I felicity ceptnd."
*'übK-ript; oni received by the. publifhcrs at their
I PnuLing Office, ' Bi ck of ]<J 0 .77 Dock-ftrcet, Philadelphia, i
s Jane 18 § iweoimIN- sa A: tiil relHe:;! a'. "<ir. 'Qeflm's Held,
M I N I A. T V II I K V. N E S S'KI
\ R- *vnd executed in ih-tt elegant and dei::?.te
V v.-irdi is so neccffary to render a Miniature P;c
tan urerefilug jewal.
lie will warrant a f*rong and indisputable refem-
Mafchce; and he takes the liberty to lay before the public
of this plate his moll earnefl intention to deserve their pa
tronage by his best endeavors to please.
N.-&. Specimens are'to be seen.
May j2. §
A itated Meeting of the Pennsyl
vania Society for piomoting the ABOLI TIONof SLAVERY
<Scc. &c• See. Wif!l be held at the usual place, on the fourth
instant, at 8 o'clock in the evening.
.BENJAMIN KITE, Secretary.
J«'y i-
For the use of Schools.
Tomkins's Text, Round, and Running
hand copies.
JUST. publiTbed, and for faleby W. Yqung, the corner of
and Chefnut (treets, and J. Ormrod, No. 41
Chcfnut-ftrect. Price of proof imprdfxons on fine paper, 1
dollar. Common, 75 cents. Executed in a flyie luperior
to any that have been formerly engraved in the United S&tes,
and not inferior to any of the kind imported from Europe*
junf 30. 2av^3w
To be Sold,
At No. 128, North Second-Street, and by. federal of
the Apothecaries in this City.
TRANSFERS of *he right toTemove pains and inflamma
tions from the human b®dy, asfecured to Dr. ELISHA
'PERKINS,.by paten:, with inftrumentsand dire&ions ne
ce(Tary for the pratti«e. This mode of treatment is particu
larly ufeful in relieving pains in the head, face, teeth, brea!\,
fide, ftomacTi, back, rheumatvfms, recent gouts, &c. &c.
Notwithstanding the utility of this practice, it is not pre
sumed but there are cases in which this and every other
remedy may sometimes fail.
June 18, lawtf.
FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN away from the fubferiber living near Church
Hill, Qu-en '\nns County in the State of Maryland'
about thefirlt of January Jaft, a black negro man.named
Sam, about thirty year« of age, 5 feet 8 or 9 inches high,
has a crooked finger on one hand, and one leg and foot
fmallerthan the other, somewhat round-shouldered, his
cloathing unknown. Any person who wili secure or
bring said fellow home,fo that 1 may get him ftiall
have the above reward with reasonable charges.
WILLIAM JACOBS.
June 4. "iawjm.
GEORGE HUNTER,
CHEMIST,
No. 114 South Second Street,
HAS forthefe two years past introduced anew fpcciet
of PERUVIAN BARK, called YELLOW
BARK, which after repeated trials by the principal
Physicians of this city, is now preferred in all ca.es of
importance that require it, to the best R«d and Pale
Bark. It is a powerful Astringent Bitter, fits well on
the stomach, is certain in itsefTe&s, and requires only
half the usual quantity for a dose.
Many of the citizens of Philadelphia are now ac-'
quainted with its virtues, the knowledge of which
ought to be extended over the Union. He has a large
fupplyof the Yellow Bark, and a general afiortment of
Drugs, Colour's, Glass, Dye Stuffs, iff c.
LIKEWISE,
Salt Petre, Jalap, and Camphor
By the Quantity.
May 19. *iawyt
Twenty Dollars Reward.
AN away from the SubTcriber, living near
_ county of Dauphin, and Stateof Pennsylvania, on Sun
, sth inft. A NEGRO M - N, named SAM, about 17 or
it, ears of age, 5 feet, 7 or 8 inches highj has no particular
mark, but apt 10 look down when iharged with a fault. Had
on and look away, a home-made cloth coat, and overalls of |
striped jean jacket, felt hat, almost fiew, calf skin
shoes, and white !hirt.
The aboveTeward will be paid to any person who will se
cure said neg«*o in any goa], so thar his master may hear of
the fame, and\eafonable charges paid, if brought home to
JUCHARD BEAHMOND.
June 29 *eodi w
Ten Dollars Reward.
Ran away,
TUNE 23d, from Brian M'Laughlin, living at Henry
J Clymer's place at Schuylkill point, a Young Woman,
who passes by the name as Polly Morrison, low set,
darkish complexion, small grey eye?, about seventeen or ,
eighteen years of age, had on a dark-colored ihort gown, '
and linfey petticoat. She stole and.carried away a trunk
and a considerable sum of money, and f great many other '
articles. Left behind her a cloak of coating lined with i
green baize, which is supposed te be stolen. Tie owner, |
by proving property may have it. Whoever lodges her is
any goal, so that fh« may be. brought to prosecution, Xhall ,
deceive Ten Dollars Reward. '
June 1% iaw3* BRIAN M'LAUGHLIN.
General Pojl Office, Philadelphia,
March 16, 1796.
WHEREAS sundry Letteis, transmitted in the Mails
of theUnited-States, te and from Norfolk, an the
Hate of Virginia, were opened, and Bank Notes of feve- ,
ral denominations fraudulently taken from them at York,
in the state aforefaid, in the months of Oflober, Novem
ber and December lad: and whereas a part of said notes
and some caih have been recovered and are now in poffefli
on of the Poll Master Gene.-al. In order therefore that
i'uch Bank Notes as shall be identified may be re/lorcd to ,
:the owners thereof, and that the remaining notes and ca(h
he equitably distributed among those who are entitled to '
them. NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to all persons who '
havefuffeied by fuchfraudulent pradices, within the pe
riod, and ob the route aforementioned, to exhibit their t
claims without delay, supported by such reasonable proofs ;
as may be Heceflary to fubftantiatc them. Such notes as
./hall be identified will be reeeived by application to the
General Post Office, on or before the firft day of July
next; and the.residue of such calh and notes will then be
divided among the claimants in proportion to their respec
tive losses, to be.afcertiined by the neceflary proofs, which
on «r,before- that day shall be-producedtothe General Pod
Office. (tawijujy) JOS. HABERSHAM.
JOSEPH COOKE,
GOLDSMITH ts" JEWELLER,
tThe corner of Market and Third-streets, Philadelphia;
MOST refpeAfully informs his friends and the public,
that he has received, per -the last arriTals, a com
plete and general assortment of almost
Every Article in his Line;
Immediately from the manufadures of London, Bir
mingham, and Sheffield, all of whicH are.of the newest
falhion, iind will be fold, wholefaic and retail, om the -o»v
---r ; terms, and the Notes of Mr. Robert Morris, and Mr.
JohnNicholfon received in at their current value.
N. Is. '1 he upper part ol the House in which he now
il .'.vtc bclttj furoilhcd or unfurnifhed. law
riAladclbhia. -
* 1
SATURDAY EVENING, Jotr a, £796.
Monday next being the anniversary of llifiAme
riean Independence, and the grand Jubiice of t!ie
Friends of tl»e United States, the next number of
• this Gazette will not be publifhcd 'till Tuesday, the
fifth instant.
marrieb.] —On Thursday evening by the Rev.
. Mr. Meeden, Mr. John David to Miss Susan
- Bartow,
1 1
CCS*THE Officers of the militia of the oityand
liberties of Philadelphia are to meet at the
. Statehoufe on Monday next, the 4th July, at 11
o'clock precisely, to proceed from thence t» pay
their compliments to the President of the United
■ States, and to the governor of the State, on the
anniversary of American Independence,
f JOSIAHHA'RMAR, Adjutant General.
1 Philadelphia, June 30th, 179#.
1 1 -
' Extracts of Letters from Charleston, dated 14th
and 19th June.
" 1 informed you of a dreadful fire having hap--
pened, by which 60 or 70 houses had been confam
p cd ; bnt alas ! it feetns the ruin of Charleston is de
termined on. Since yesterday, 3 o'clock PM, till
now, 7 PM, at Jfeaft 250 dwelling-houses are in
a(hes by an Incendiary. The fire caught behind
Penman's and Coirie's Stores : the latterjoft a good
deal. All the north fide of the Bay, from Pen
man's new (tore to Church street, all the oppoiite
part of ftieet, great part of Union street,
all Lodge alley, great pait of Union street contin
ued, all the east and weft fide of Church street,
from Qneen to Broad street, M'Kenzie's, Doctor
Joseph Kamfey's, and Blacklock's houfe# and the
north fide of Broad street to the Beef market, and
from thencc to Queen street, none but two houses
are (landing.
The fire was partly flopped in Whitman, the
Silverfmith'shoufe, which being of Brick, and til
ed, prevented it from spreading farther. The wind
was high at the time, and 1 expe&ed it to cross
Broad-street, after which all the southern part of
the Bay would have gone. Only five houses on the
Bay, from the corner 1 of Queen ftreft, were burnt.
lCinloch's house, all Kinloch's court are in ruins ;
the old Church steeple was three times on fire, but
saved by a great reward and greater exertions. Dr.
Carter's lioufe and the neighbouring ones were pul
led down ; a great number of Houses were blowft
up ; several lives were loft, and many worthy peo
ple were hurt.
I was present at the fire of 1786 t but that, as
well as erery other I have ever seen, was a mere il
lumination in comparison with this ; the column of
fire was tremendous, and spread in different directi
ons at the fame time.
Again "! a frefh fire, from u(hich I just now
came, the Bake-house of Gaillard, in Elliot-street,
was on fire, but happily extinguished. The streets
are almost impassable for the furniture and'goods
■saved lying all about. The general loss is immense.
19th.
" The confufion the whole town has been fhrown
into by the late dreadful fire, is the reafen of the
delay the vessel has experienced. I add only a few
lines to the endofed narrative. Since Monday
night, every day one or two frefn attempts have
been made to set on fire the remaining part of »he
! once flourifhing city of Charleston. This morning
' was pgain noticed by an attempt, all or mod by
Negroes; who, when surprised and taken, shew
handfuls of money, which they fay they received
from whiie-fac'd villains, to encourage them in this
.lifaftrousbulinefs/ Where it will end, God knows.
The inhabitants are worried out with fatigue. Con
stant watching, patroling, and doing duty onguaid,
is enough to cut down the healthicft man. 1 shud
der, when going home, to pass through a long lane
of fmoaking ruinr., where you are conttantly expof
cd to falling chimnies or threatening walls. The
distress of so many families, lying in Churches and
out houses ft ill fmoaking, makes my heart bleed.
In Broad-street, Mr. Jack's house .flopped the
flames.
«' The villains always watch the wind, ta make
a new attempt on a freth quarter. Had we but
once a plentiful shower, I should deep found. All
business is at an end : and if the Banks had not i
come to the enslofed refolutiohi, every note would
have been pretested.
" May your city never experience a like difaftet, 1
■is the sincere wish of, yours, &c."
Philadelphia, July t. 1
At a meeting of citizens convened at the Coffee-
House for the purpose of adoptiug a plan to afford 1
relief to the indigent and distressed persons who fuf- 1
fered by the late fire at Charleston, f
Thomas Fitxfimons was chosen Chairman, and i
Jacob Shoemaker, Secretary.
Resolved, Tbat fubfeription papers he prepared, 1
and distributed through the different wards of the t
city, to obtain signatures for the relief of the fuf. t
ferers abovementioned-
The tollowing persons are accordingly nominated c
to obtaii) and collet fuhl'criptions in their tefpeaivc *
wards: vis.
North Mulberry Ward. £
Godfrey Haga, Thomas AUibone. t
South ditto. e
Andrew Geyer, P au ] £ eck-
Upper Delaware. a
John Perot J acob Shoemaker. ' „
Lower Delaware.
John Duffield, Chamlefs Allen.
South Ward.
Ebenezer Large, R. Smith. n
High-Street Ward. v
Jacob Baker, M. Hutchinfon. f
North Ward. 1 n
Caspar Morris, Laurence Seckle,
Chefnut Ward. a
John Stifle, Meeker. t j
Walnut-Street Ward.
James Cox, N. Frazier. k
Dock Ward. (
L. Hollingfworth, B. W. Morris. t i
New-Mar!: t tViitf.' 1
D. Peterfon, Levii-iis Cliiitfon.
Resolved that John Barclay Esq. be
_ to receive the monies which may be cojledled
on the different fubferiptioli papers, and to
ie .forward the fame to the Intendant oi the eit-yaf
>f Charleston to be distributed as may be judged prop
ie er by him and the city council to the fufferers
who (hall to them appear the mi/!t diflrelfed and ne
ceflitous.
t., By Ofder of the Meeting,
u JACOB SHOEMAKER.
TRUE AFRICAN WIT:
d And a Fad.
OLD Cato on his death bed lying,
Worn out with work, and almoll dying,
With patieitce v heard hi* friends propose
What bearers for him they had chose—
There's Cuff & Cesar, Pomp & Plato?
" D«y will do bery well," quoth Cato,
And Bantam Phii-ips, now For t'other
We mull take Scipio, Bantam's DTotheu
" I no like Scip," old Cato cries,
"Scip rascal, tell about me lies,
And get me whip'd,'* ki, "tis all one,
Scip (hall be bearer, Scip or none.
" Mind me,'' quoth Cato, " if dat cur,
I Dat Scip., come bearer, I wont dir." '
j • EPITAPH.
' [ Publifhcd in PorcupineCen for, for May.*]
WHEN the wight, who here lies beneath the'
cold earth,
Pilft quitted the land that had given him birth, ,
He coinmenc'd the apollle df blood shed and (trife, .
And pradiis'd the tiade to the end of his life. ,
Sedition and nonsense and lies to dispense.
He took up the title " Old Common Sense
Taught poor honell men how rich rogues to keep ,
under, ,
Excited to pillage, and fhar'd in the plunder ; .
But when there no longer was plunder to (hare, ,
Hi» " common sense" led him to seek it else- ,
where.
. To his countrymen now he rcturn'd back again,
The Wronger of lights and the Rightcr of Men ; ,
He told them they ltill were a nation -of slaves; ,
That their king was a fool and his ministers
knaves, I
And the only sure way for the people to thrive [
Was, to leave neither one nor the other alive.
But Phomas, who never knew when he (Itould flop,, s
Went a little too far, and was catch'd on the hop,
In ihort, it was determin'd that poor Tom (hould
lole f
His ears at a poll, or his fife in a noose.
" Old Common Sense" boggles, then (kull* out n
of fight, 1
Then packs up his rags and decamps in the-nigbt. f
His arrival at Paris occasions a fete,
And he finds, in the den of aflaffins, a feat:
Here he murders and thieves and makes laws for J 5
a season ; "
Is cramm'd in a dungeon, and preaches up *' Sea- b
son ;» e
Blafphenaes the Almighty, lives in filth like a hog, U
Is abandoned in death, and interr'd like a dog. ° v
Tom Paine for the Devil is surely a match ;
In hanging Old England he cheated Jack-Catch, f«
In France (the firft time such a thing had been C
ieen) 1,
He cheatcd the watchful and (harp Guillotine, d
And at last, to the sorrow of all the beholders,
He march'd out of life with his head on his '1
(houlders. ; r
SPECIMEN.
<. Fron the Aurora,
The following i s translated from the Patriote
r rancais, a French newspaper publilhed in Charles
ton, S. C. By giving it a p ! aC e in your impartial l]
paper, you will oblige many of your fubferibers. 31
June 8. z f a
. CHARLESTON, May 19 . fj
I here is not a person in Charleston who.has not *
been a w.tnefs to the activity and ardor which the a]
trench citizens exerted in giving the most prompt li
succours in the last conflagration : The newfpa- ol
pers of this country have paid them, -in that refped ri
thejuft tribute pfeulogium. Every one has heard
f oUh . e Serous aft of that brave mariner «rf the
fame nation* who, the day after the fire went up &
to a man, who did not know him again, to return «!
bim four thoafand pounds, which had been confid- «
thellr.r thewome "V vhen lhe si making «
a • ravages. Nevertheless there have beeu aa
Americans unjust enough to throw on the French ec
the most odious suspicions. There is yet in the "
U-nited States a leaven of royalifm of which the e '
firft Jegiflators of America have been very wren, "
in not ridding their country. That inveterate cl J ° r
terhS°A y W ° tbC d3rk ' a ° J W,U end b T ,H
tShf V C \ aneW ' and *7 Tivitt ' n £ forever -
l! ' flbe > rremai » f "pi"e ; there is no in- icl
nv no Wbat , thcfe P Ht in m otion ;no calum- fa
on'th °f 7* What Ae y i ! went to impose an
on the credulous and timid clifs of the people
which is always afraid of losing. P P nc
It is thus that we are made to pass for people to ac
eared ; it is thus that a perConal dispute, which ed
en mt I P bef ° rC y eflerda y> been tak a "
en up to make of it a national quarrel. so
What does it import to those Leopards, who of
oSriil^-^ tl ' e ' rorigin ' t0 sPinf P in »he blood of *1
of their fellow citizens and that of an allied people
provided they can serve the tyrant who kee/s tC th
Americans 1 you know not the French > thev
never strike a coward', blow ; they are r
with you ; they are in your country, they will re
sped your laws and will submit iri .K.
murmuring, If they were voirr p . without w <
how themfslves to you face to fa Wo . U ' d an
attention to numbers, for the French Pay '" g C ' :
their enemies but after havino- n c °unt of
Why will v„! , 7 g them. R,
way win jou icduce us to thenecelTit. r •
king of ourselves ? Why will von f pea " W1
o your recolledlion our iMneroG^y"ami l °-^
„ Uißt > u £
that you are but ? people of yeftcrJay, that with
out the aid of the French would yet be a n En
?c glifh colony, after having been punifticd as rebels ?
;d Recolladt the fixation of America at the Epoch
to when De GrafTe airived in the Bay of Chefapeak
cJF —remember York Town ; have you forgotten
p. how many thousands of Frenchmen have spilt their
rs blood to aflilt you in gaining your liberty ? What
c- generosity has not France, since the beginning of
her revolution ftiown towards you.
• Nevertheless, what have you done since the be
ginning of the adtual war as an
for all thai ? When you thought us crulhed by the
number of our enemies, you have not known us.
What has been the condudt of the captains of
your merchantmen in oiir colonies ? who have
spread in oui Islands Co many bad half joes ?
Do not your banks yet overrun with gold and
silver ingots atlfing from the melting of the plate
and jewels of the unfortunate inhabitants of St.
Domingo ?
Hat there not been found.at the last affair of Le»
ogane, numbers of American among the dead, en
emies of France? and yetwe.have been silent.
Have you treated us better in your own coun
try ; while you were forbidding us all purchase of
arms and ammunition of war, you were permitting
theEnglifh to have ai} enclosure at Nerfolk, and to
buy in Virginia horses to aflilt in-carrying on the
war againlt us in the eolonies, contrary to thefaith
■ of treaties ; our prizes on the enemy have been ar
retted by your tribunals, and the amount has not
yet been paid to the crews.
Your pilots have run our vefTels agrpund.
The new treaty which we proposed has been re
jected under trifling pretexts. When the flavea
who waged war agairilt us were beaten, you sent an
ambafiador to Paris, but at the fame time Jay ar
riving at London i and you know for what fpurpofe
and yet we have said nothing.
You boalt of having afforded us a hospitable re
ception ! Great efforts ! -we bring into a newewun
try a population of several thousands of persons of
all ages acui sexes;; we bring you the refiduc of
wealth weaver?able to save from the flames, and
what is more, ourindultry, our arms, our am, one
manufactures, and you reproach us -with it.
We bring into your ports the immeufe riche*
which we take from the enemy and it js molt!}- yon
who profit by it.
Since we are among you rhe circulation of specie
has doubled. Your cultivators fell their produce
better ; your proprietors in town have tripled the
rents of their houses,; your lands are better cleared,
and you leproaoh us with it.
Have we not also given you the ifirft leflbrwin the
fine art# ? before us who were your artifls in paint
ing, sculpture, mufiq, dancing, &c. &c. perhaps we
may one day even teach you how to enjoy unadul
terated liberty, for you cannot be looked upon as a
people perfedtly free, as long as you show more ar
dor to defend your pecuniary i mere da than your
Independence, as long as England and the petty
kings of Africa fliall abuse you with impunity, as
long as you (hall be kneeling and that you shall trem
ble before the earthern flatue which you have erect
ed with your hands ; as long as you fliall be unjufi
towards your allies and bfcnfible to the faireit of
virtues Gratitudp.
French Republicans ! Let not, however, your
ientiments pass the limits of fil«nt indignation
Continue to refpe& the laws of ehc country yoti
e .'"J an swer to calumny by an irreproachable
conduct, by new adts of generosity, by new virtuei
—and recoiled Montesquieu's motto : 11 eft grand
! eft beau de faire de» ingrats ; It if noble to wake
ingrates.
From the Centineu
Mr. Rujpn, ~
That there has cxifted in this country, ever frnce
the arrival of Genet, a set of men hostile to its peace
and happmefs, is a truth supported by ten thou
proof". _ They assume a visible exiltence, on
every event,m Europe or Ametica. They magni
fy every thing French and belittle every exertio* of
American patriotism—With them no condud of
all the French authorities under all their conllitu.
trons has been, or can be wrong—and no condud
, J!? c, .' al lias been, or can be
right—T. herr curies have been utter*! againlt ev.
ery weafure of the Prefident-whofe reparation
they have endeavored « to .demn to everlafling
ame. Eft any true American review their wtit
mgs and speeches, for .four years pall—See their
execrations on every measure, which has been tak
en to ptefcrve the blcffings of our country—Peace
and Independence ! —Let him recoHeft the changes
continually rung ,n our ears, of " Aridocracy,"
Brmfh influence," and other infinua.ious lalf
e than hell is ftlfcj and then let him turn his at.
tentlon to the reiterated endeavors, by fawning at
, a " d threatening at another to Colonize
the I nited States, and to .make us wholly fubfer.
vient to trie Independent French Republic. I f av
:et any true American review the conduct of the
fadtion, and then let him lay his hand on his heart
J Y 'r ™ lle,her h,s country ljas not been mcnaced
now ore oe graded, by a viperous faction, which
rt ' ys J ° n US Vlta ' s - Men whom he has been
" andli° r€VCre /, rd refpea W b "" traduc- ,
I'Jtv K 13 7 gr ° Wn vencr able from
foo bv mr! C . rVo atCd 3nd trßm under
Of hrirwill,U 7 pe ? "° ° ther laws ' ,han those
,n «"y mind, on reading
theeflays, iigned "Paulding," which have t
copied into the Chronicle from the Anrora I
' eflays, (the effufions of the fnme mJI
P which ha, aheady beeSUeera?rfi„^, ?
ratter of «r l r<t r cxeerated !n 'he cha
wc fee th if Observer," and " Valerius,")
anc«fo r m ° ft " VC r { patriotifm, and vigil
tv " i f f"? ep,thft of " Cu 'umbiau Majei:
r"" BY THIS DAY's MAILS. 1
—c-rrr 2
NEW-YORK, July i. 1
CHARLESTON, June 22. 1
CIRCULAR LETTER agreed upon by the *
citizens of Charleston, June 19. ,
Friends and Fellow Citizen r, j_
United co you by the endearing ties of private
friendlhip, and a common citizenship, vise feel our- | £
selves encou'aged to apply to you for aid in the
work ot benevolence, imposed upon us by the defo- f
latingfire, which has recently ruined a fair portian g
of our city. I t
Scarcely liad we recovered from the confufian
and distress arillng from ttie fire, which laid wa!te
the upper part of the city —scarcely had we enjoyed
the melanCholy x pleafure of diflributing the fruits of
the benevolence of the citizens, to the amouut of
10,000 dollar#, amongst the sons and daughters of
affli&ion, than we are agin aflailcd by a heavier ca
lamity. A fire more rapid, extensive, devouring rl
and irrefiltable than any we have experienced for
nearly twenty years, sweeps off a great part of the tt
city, deflroying houses, forniture, and goods, to
an immense amount, and reducing many indulirious
families to famine and to ruin.
Time has not yet allowed us to calculate the ex-
tent of the loss, but a partial view exhibits the mi- "
ferable picture of 300 houses reduced to aflies,
and of4oo families driven for fh«lter into the hou- n
fes of their friends—into the buildings appropriated P
to the comfort of the poor, of the orphan, and olf a
the helplefis—which being inefficient to afford
(helter, some of the unfortunate vidtiifts have been 1
obliged to convert the House of God <into the a- ®
bode of man, and to take refuge at the altar# P
Many are reduced from affluence to beggary— R
almotl all who have been burnt out have fullaiied n
great losses, and are placed in circumstances which 1
call for immediate relief. "
Every exertion is making by the citizens of the
town to alleviate the miseries of these unfortunate *'
fellow creatures. Every heart feels for their dif- *
trclTcs. Every hand is open for their relief. Much i
has been done and more will certainly be done—but ll
much remains for the exercise of the friendly affec- T'
tions. The resources of the inhabitapts of the city 1!
already exhausted by the almofl continued draughts
made upon them, by the unfortunate of oui own, as
well as of foreign coun ties, are inadequate to meet
the exigence of the present eiiormous evil. n
Where can we turn for assistance so natwally, or l '
we trull so efficacioufly, as to our friends and bre- P
thren of the country, whose interefl and whose as-
feftions are bou.id up with ours, and who fhsre in 1!
our prosperity, and in ouradverfity—we are com-, "
manded by the voice of this community, to rmke P
the appeal to the feelings of -our fellow citizens in
the country; and we make the appeal in the cotifi- 1,1
dense that it will be effectual ; and that they will "
readily seize the occasion of co-ope r ating with lis, "
in ths great duties offeeding the hungry, cloathing
thp naked, fhehering the houseless, and eomfortiiig
■the afflidted. ®
John Matthews, Chairman-; Charles Cotefwott'n
Pinckney, William Washington, David Ramiay, P
Burke, John Huger, Robert Smi:h. H. ?
W De&fFtire, James Ladt.in, John Bull, ! i *
Holmes, William Someffall, John B Holmes, A
dam Tunno, ,'Keating Simons, Daniel Caiir,.><r
Win, Johnson, Yen. William CraftS, J. S. Crips ;
Richard Furman, Thomas Waties, Nathaniel Kuf
ifell, Anthony Toomet, John Blake, William Mat
{hall, John Champrays, Thomas Lee. i
Charlellon, June 18, 1796.
[Gffl. Finekney's draught of a petitian.~\ .
To the honorable the Speaker and the other Mem
bers of the House of Representatives of the [
.V State of.South-Carolina.
The Memoiial and Petition of the citizen* of' f
Charlellon, i
Refpeftfully fheweth, • ' r
That a confjderable part of their city has been- r
lately tedueed to ashes by two dreadful and deftruc-
Vive fires. j
That the frequency of fires, and the extent of t
their devaluation in this city, has been chiefly occa-' t
fioned by many of the houses having been built v
with wood, and by mote having been covered with t
Ihingles. ]
1 hat the building and covering houses in this c
manner, not only endangers the prope ty of the e
proprietors of them, but renders insecure the hou- 1
fes of other citizens in their vicinity, built of brick c
or Hone, and covered with slate or tile. t
T hat thrfe fires do not only oecafion great loss <
and damage to those whose properties are immedi- t
ately cohfumed, but the injury sustained extends r
widely, and involves many others in the ruinous con
fequeuces ; they even cause a diminution ot the t
public revenue, as vacant lots pay a much less tax 1
to the slate and city, than lots improved. 1
That as it is contrary to the social compact for 1
any person to make fitch ufeof his property as will 1
be to his neighbour, and as your petition- 1
-ers are thoroughly convinced, by fad experience, of ]
the pernicious consequences of their building with i
wood or coveting with shingles, they most earnestly
request yon to ordain, that the outfiJe of all buil
dings,hereafter to be erected in the city of Charles- 1
ton, or within half a mile thereof, be henceforth
built ofbrick, (tone, tabey, or fon»e other in combus
tible material, with party walls of the fame ; and that
ah buildings which shall hereafter he covered within
the abova limits, be henceforth covered with either
ilate, tile, ftone,brick, tabey,or some other in com
bullible materia!; and that you will make such fur
ther provision, as to your wisdom (hall seem meet
to prevent, as far as human care and forefight can
prevent, the repetition of the dreadful calamities
they have fuftered.
I ___
FORT OF BALTIMORE,
June 28.
ARRIVED.
Ship Active, Jenny, St. Übes
Brig Mentor, Feelenborg, Bremen.
CLEARED.
Ship Diana, Dtfhon, Martinique
Harmony, Robinson, Ditto
Brig Mentor left at Bremen brig of Cli 1*- si
! J tnn. The Anthony iiangitf, apjvej there live , fc
2 tit of April, in 60 days from Baltimore. Lat. 1 e
74, 46, lonp. 21, 14, spoke (hip Pacific, of a
Chaileiton, fn>m Surinam, bound to Amllerdam. c
Lit. 63, 6, long. 57, 32, spoke brig L.idy Eli
zabeth, from Charlellon to Hamburgh, 14 days
out, all well. Lat. 72, 43, spoke bng New Proof,
(Nye Prove) Peter Hanfen, from Philadelphia to
Hamburgh, 4 days out.
Capt. Reeves, of tke brig Paddy, from Jeremie, (
left at that port, snow John & Joseph, and brig
Thetis,of Baltimore to fail the next day ; fchooti- t (
er Trent, Jewel, to fail in 8 days, and schooner tl
Betsey, Story, of ditto, to fail in 3 days for Chsr- J
lefton. ' j- (
■ -J-i--- ' ■ , ■■■ tl
Foreiga Intelligence. tl
„i n
Dublin, April 16. n
REEPF OF THE SESSION OF-PitRJ-'IAMENT. n
Yesterday the session dosed - ; it may be ufetnt-To—'
review it. t<
The opening oti the part of, government was 'I
moderate confiftrnt and firm ; on the part ef oppo- v
fition, insidious and malignant. a
Administration recommends an attention to the e
state of provisions, the restoration of internal tran • a
quillity, and the moll vigorons means of profecut- b
ing the War, if peace could not be obtained.
Pledged on the war, oppofitian acquiesce-; oti the w
meafuic offecttrity, they attempt todelude the p;o- d
pie by unm»aning inquiry into the Ilate of the poor; si
and as to internal tranquility, they make aft effort
to decry the means of preserving it, and to cerffure S
the per sons who had been molt adtive in suppres
sing They fnrther endeavor to im- h
put-e to government a design of introducing religi-. tl
gious per'fecution 4 and try the temper of parlia- «
merit on the exploded principle of introducing Bri- si
tifh party as the engine of Irish opposition. The h
druggies of la ft session are attempted to be revived
—the authors of the renunciation aft are reprefen- -e
ted as the enemies of Trilh Indeprndenre 4 Mr.
Fox i» held up at a Comet, id whom Ireland is to t'
jbe the the Briffotint experiment of appealing ii
to the people againfl the government of England, is t
revived; and the sedition of Francis [treet Chapel, h
! is repeated in the senate with all the aifeftation ef o
fludied plagiarism. si
The country gentlemen of Ireland were not to o
be enraptured by their language ; neither sedition p
nor difaffeftion, nor British party, were lures to
their underflanding: they thought their livr-s,their
properties, the constitution, their country in
danger ; they felt that the adminiltrarion was act
ing sincerely and hotielliy for theii preservation, v
( and they refufed to be the dupes of disappointed '
party. P
Oppofition,hnding no support, and that every at- 0
to gain strength disclosed increasing weak- e
ness, soon relaxed their efforts, and funk 'by degrees
into a faint approbation, or faint abuse, of the mea
sures of government.
Lad year the magnitude of the supply had been
extolled and le great eft effort of
Ireland, -nd ly - tii.'.tc -o the unexampled
popula.ity r ■ Hiof the day: this
'e has been car
. ;e* v. but -~-ithiiUt sny parade.—
' in » two icjih is this—that the
ame fos-v - » was lalt year p <*ii' d'by a loan
' if 5 'I. us the cur re at icrvice, is this year
uppoijed by a loan of 700,000!. only. Such has
been the economy of government, that a faring of
joo.oool. has been brought to the public credit.
A judicious floppage of the expert of grain, en
fured plenty to the people, and a wife invefligation
diflipated alarm. The price of corn through
out Europe had encouraged a great fpectvlation in •
Ireland corn was bought up in great quantities for
export, and hence the temporary high price : but
speculation has ovei'fhdt its mark ; corn is falling t
in England ; the profpeftof the next harvefl is pro t
mifing ; of course adventure will soon cease, and f
reasonable and cheap prices will return.
No parliamentary measure has been taken for the 'si
poor : mod .wifely—for no parliamentary measure f
can serve them. When government proclaims that c
the kingdom increases in prosperity year after year, 1
whether in war or peace, it follows of ccturfe that t
the situation of the poor mult be daily meliorating , t
Prosperity arises from an increased supply of pro {
duce and manufactures % but thefeare the result of I
employment and induflry the poor -can only be
benefited by employment and industry. If then the
country .gradually prospers, it is a sure ted that in'
dullry and employment are increasing, and confe- 1
quently that the poor ate better supported ; for as 1
there is more demand for labor, the price of labor >
rife* with the demand.
With regard to the diilurbanees of the kingdom, <
the conduct of the government has been niafl judi- «
cious; it has avoided committees of inqniry, from- : 1
unwillingness to produce materials which might 1
llamp either disgrace or suspicion on persons or par- ' <
ties, where convicting evidences could not be always ;
fubflantiated : it has relied more properly on the
public notoriety and the public feeling. In apply- 1
ing the remedy to diilurbanees, its policy has been
preventative and not vindrftive : it has aimed itfelf
with the greatell powers, but confined the right of
exercising them to the dillurbed diflrifis alone. .
The infurrcftion law is the policy of the day 5
the operation ofthe civil bill jtirifdiftion is a mea
sure of perpetual efficacy. The government of
Lord Weftmoreiand had much merit in placing the
most efficient characters on the bench ; the present
government has ensured the continuation of that
wife policy, by increasing the fahry of the judges,
so that even the place of a puisne judge will now be
1 an object to men of leading business in the hall.—
i This is, however, a measure in which I ihink go
vernment is peculiarly felf interefled ; for if any 1
thing more than another can attach them to the j
constitution of their country, it is the confidence 1
that jufiice at all times will be ably and impertially !
adminiflered. A bad judge is of more disservice
i to government than the most furious opposition.
. In increasing the salary of the judges, a wife provi
sion is introduced to fecurt their going circuit ; the
; defalcation from their salary is made so great as to
> b« an efFectual counterpoifi: to indolence; the as
r. j. fi/.e-i A'lll be tefpe&aK!«; for the biiinefs of civ!' ?
us j bills being removed, thejudges will hive Itifure to' tl
t. ; complete tlie business of their circuis creditably. 01
>f and they will no longer be crowded aid tumultu- fe
l. ous. ti
s LONDON, Apil 27. 11.
f > {HOUSE of COMMONS. ei
0 April 26. P 1
Tlte house resolved itfelf into a committee of
-> the whole hpufe, on the slave carrying bjl.
S Mr. Wilberforce said, that what he now meant "
'* to propose went merely to make some alteration in
r the number of ilaves that were to he carried, in or- ®
der to prepare the islands for abolition, which was e
so great an object with many. He wilhed to render]
the (laves somewhat dearer, in order to encourage
the good treatment of them, and to prevent ,e
new settlements of them being formed. By this m
means a total ahoKtion might be effe&ed in the mm- _
• nrr moft-Jgtired by in u>c uuur..
_Jscfherefore would move that the number of slaves
to a ton Ihould be limited to one for every ton, when
.5 the tonnage of the ship was zoo, and four for ea r
). very five tons above that quantity of tonnage.—
and likewfe that no more (hips (hould tie allowed to
e ei»ter into tiie trade tlian those now engaged in it ; ' e
i. and he proposed that the blanks in the bill should T<
be filled up with that proportion. as
A long and desultory conversation erifued, in
e which Mr. Jenkinfon, General Tarleton, Mr. Dun* ' c
1- das,' Mr. Baitman, General Smith and Lord Shef
• field spoke against the motion. l '
t Mr. Ryder, Mr.-Francis, Mr. Pitt, Mr.
e Smiih spoke 111 its fufport. 01
f. Mr. Wilberforce, howeverconfented to withdraw «
t- his motion, as it feenvd to be the general delire of
i- the house to enquire into the degree of mortality
1- which the present mode of importing slaves occafi
i- fions, and to grant fach accommodations as their
e health requited.
d The house being retained,jMr. Hobart report- S
. <d progress and alked leave to lit again.
Mr. Rose moved, " That there be laid before S
o the house an account of all the cargoes of negroes S
5 imparted from the coafl of Africa from the year
s 178910 1794 inc'lufive, mentioning the number that
I, have died from rhe time that they were firll taken
>f onboard until their arrival in the Weft Indies j al
so diftinguiflung each year, and the different parts S
o of the coast of Africa from whence they wete im
-11 ported." n
o m iL-r.4,jii_rrr»n
'nr LEXINGTON, May 21.
On Tnefday lait theeleftors for choofingthe Go-
vernor and Senate, assembled at the Capitol in
J Frankfort for that purpole ; and after having ap
pointed their cleric, i*cc. proceeded to the elciSion
t of a Governor, and James Garrard, Esq. was ®
elected. ' _ 1
' The Senators for the different counties are-: 4
For Jefftrfon, A. S. Bullit C
Nelfbn, Wm." M'Clung B
Shelby, David Sandford
){ Hardin, Benjamin Helm
j Logao, James Davis Ii
; s Washington, Matthew Walton
Lincoln, James Knox,
M-.-reer, Robert Mc Iby
Madison, Green Clay
n Clarke, Hubbard Taylor
ir Fayette, John Campbell (
Woodford, Robert Alexander
Tkot, William Henry t]
Bourbon, John Edwards t]
Mason. 4 John Meehir. a
. . . . V
" 19R THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES. u
n ■ c
>r Mr. fenno, "
it The following paragraphs, translated from the g
g Courier Fruncois, and published in the Aurora of
v this morning, #re strikingly corroborative of the in
d formation contained in the Letter from Cape
Francois, inserted in your Gazette a few days
ie 'since. There are some afTertions contained in -
re these paragraphs which are too gross for the rnoft
jt credulous Gudgeons of a foreign Junto to swallow.
r, It is important however to the oitrca«*ile Intereil
at to know with pre'ifion, on what tooting their
g commerce is hkelv to be placed. As these para
o 1 graphs may afford something Jike a clue to the
of bufinefa, they ought to be extensively known.
3e Yours, C.
Ie * c
n- Lerters from Charleston inform that British pri
*e- vateers have lately taken and lent into the ports of 1
as his Britannic majesty 16 American vessels from j
or French ports, and among the number the fehooner £
■ Polly belonging to Mr. Trooholm merchant in I
n, 1 Charleston. The pretext under -which rhey now ; I
li- condemn American veffeb is, that every citizen of
n. ! the United States who resides on the French ter- I
ht ritory, is looked upon as a French citizen, and |'
ir- ! consequently t-h'at vessels loaded by such become ]
ys : good prizes.
he We cannot omit remarking that scarcely a day J
v- elapses which is not remarkable by the number of ,
en Ametican vessels taken by the English. They even ]
elf fom-etimes stop vessels bound to neutral and even J
of their own ports. They condemn the cargoes, and
always find a pretext for seizing them with
y ; out indemnifying the owners.
?a- The French, on the contrary, if they stop a few
of vessels carrying pTovifions to their enemies, they 1
he take out those provisions only, pay the market
■nt price for them and rrjleafe the vessels. Proofs of
lat this are found in the accounts given by captains
es, through the medium of the public prints.
be One solitary [reputed] Americsn vessel, the 1
— j Mount Vernon has been taken bound to London ;
;o-1 it is not known wliether Ihe will be condemned,
ny | whether the motives which led to the feizurc of her
he 1 are fo!ld,nor whether (he is really American prop
ice erty. Yet this solitary capture made by tire French
lly cauL's more noise than the 1000 and 7 or 8000
ice seamen by the English. The publio prints
mi. for a fortnight back are filletl with abuse against
vi- the French, and it would seem tliat the insult of
;he fered by this single capture to the Afnerican flag
to is such as to require summary retribution,
as Before Americans complain of the conduct of the
|1 French let tliem put a Sop to English piraciet, let
i>' themcgaftf to render ihemfclvs liable* to be
, on by the French to arrCwer, why tl ev have tacitly
seconded the effort? made b;: the English to over.
turn the French Republis. Am-ricans do not df
ceive yourfclves; it ij not by tending the Repub
lic that you will prove your altarhmmt; it is by
executing with pood faith your Trfaty ; It is by
preventing your Teamen from feiving their enemiet
j- in violation of the laws <as nations and of neutrali
ty. As loujj as you fubimt to the violence of the
( English yon lose all right to kink for jtiltice front
i( France ; you can no longer rerjuiie that flic (hould
consider you as neutrals ; and il they preserve si.
s lence relative to your prtfer.t condtrtsS, it it hecaufe
r | her good faith does not fuffer her to imagine that
you take no flep to cause your neutrsflrry to b«
tefpefled, or that yon tacitly content to lier'ede
mies finding reinforcements in your count*}'.
X- '■ - NASSAU, (N. f.) May 31. . t - . .
1 Yesterday morning came to town, the paflengerj
and crew of the schooner True Blue, belong' ig to
Meflrs. Moss, which failed on Wednesday last for
j Crooked Jfland, and was captured on Friday a few
. leagues to windward of this island, by a F ench pri
vate r schooner, which we are informed, Scls a!fo
as a Guarda Costa for the goverrrmervt of Culm.
1 Of the Bahama cotton planters, thole of the,
. foutliern difti i<£i -of Long Mlaed ai d ofCat 1 fland,
have this year been the-molt fortunate. J< is wor
thy of remark that in Cit.lflind the Geoigia or
Prefiacotton is almost universally planted. In the
other Islands/the Anguilla feed is generally uftd.
V 11
f ' ; ~ ~— ~
1r Philadelphia, "July 2 '
r ARRIVAL AT THIS PORT.
Days.
- Schr. Lady Linderman, Paul, St, Croix, il
cIeMKO. •
e Ship Criterion, Johnfton, AmHerdam
s Scht. Ceres, Domingo, Curraeoa
r Bo*e Olden, Fort TTmphlii
t Holl, Woodward, Jeremie
n Polly and Nancy, Mackie, Nuv 1 ern
Phoebe, Johnfton, C rrituek
s Sloop Julian, Robefon, Hi fp-\ni .!»
A (hip was seen under wsylielow the Fort tbis
mon ing bound up,—appeared lioht.
The Schooner Commerce, Hawthorn is arrived
at the Fort from Poil-au-Pri.ice.
Letters from London, Hated May 4. were this
day received per post from Baltimore.
n
5 TO C K S.
s Six per Cent. - - - - - - "
Three per Cent. ------ - 10/6 ( 5
per Cent. --- -- ... 16.6 f.j
44 per Cent. - -- -- -- -- 14/4 _) —
Deferred Six per Cent. - - - - IB
BANK United SSj'tes, - - - - 17 pi - cent.
—— Pennsylvania, - - 3 3
North America, - - - - 48 te 50
insurance Comp. North-America, 55
Pennsylvania, II
Exchange, at 60 days, - - - T65 t® 166 2-3
-■ 1 " —~ ' ~ i.
Urbanna Mill Seats ,
SITUATE in Cecil county, Maryland, on
the river Strfquehanna, about one mile ar.ove tide wa
ter, and commanding the water of that important river,
the channelconducing the trade of which comes so near
the Mill Seats as to make it convenient to speak the-boiitsf
and Mills may be so fituatedas to receive them alnpg their
walls, and bv water lifts take in their cargoes.
There i 3 a power fufficient for many and any kind or
ufeful Water Works, and <0 much may bejullly said in,
commendation of this Scite as wotild b« inconvenient to
insert in a newspaper publication.
Thole who may defipe to be concerned, will probably
- find tl-emfelves well pileafed on viewing the situation.
Leases for any term of years may be obtained o» appli
cation to the fobferiber, living on che premises
,e CLEMENT HOL LTD AY.
, s April 19. lawjm
n —— -1 -
AN EXTENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
ft Books and Stationary,
ir Wholesale and Retail, now opened and for Sale by
WILLIAM TOUNG.
e Book/filer, No. 54, Corner of Second and Cbefnut-fireets.
AMONG which are Fnglish, Latin, and Greek
Classics and Dictionaries, Divinu y, l Law, His
tory, Travels, Voyages, Miscellanies, avd themoft
! esteemed Novels.
' WRI i ING AND PUNTIHG PAPERS,
~f From the best manufaflurers in Europe, and from his ma
r.tifaflorj 011 Brandywine, viz.
m ] Imperial,plain and v«ove flatSmajl folio post, plain
i Super-royal do. do. Ditto gilt
in Roy. 1 do. do. BlolTom paper assorted
W i Medium -do. do. Trahfparent folio post
u s ] Demy do. do. 'SuperfiEe and common foolfis.
Glazed and hot-pressed papers.
r " and 4to extra largr post coarse papers.
Thick poll in folio dito'do. London brown, assorted
K j Ditto in 4to. ditto do. Hatters' paper
Folio wove post, lined Stainers' payer
1V Quarto ditto do. Common brown
f Ditto gilt do. Patent ftieathing
Common size folio post Bonnet boards
- 11 Ditto quarto, plain Binders' Boards.
rn Folio and quarto post, jilt,
id Also, a variety of other Stationary /Irliclet, Vix.
}l- Wedgwood and g!a r s philofophieal ink (lands, well assort.
ted ; pewter ink cliefts of various sizes ; round pewter ink
flands j paper, brass, and polilhed leather ink stands for the
'W pocket. Shining sand and sand bo«s, pounce and pounce
ey boxet, ink and ink powder. Counting house and pocket pen-
knives of the best quality, ass Ikin tablet and memorandum
r books. Red and colored wafeis, common tize, bffice ditto»
°' Quills, fiom half a dollar, to three dollars per hundred.
»S Black lead pencils, mathematical instruments, &c. &c.
Allforts apd fixes of Bunk Btooxs, ready made or madfp
l toorder. blank bills ol exchange and notes of
hand, executed in copperplate, bi Is of lading, maniieft*
n • feamcn's articles and journals, &c. tie. _
'd, June j8 « W 3 W
er - 1 .
'P- ' FO R SA L E.
\ FOUNT of BREVIER, half worn ; about fourhnn
-30 _/j L dred weight. Enquire at the Office of the Gazette
ts of the United States, No. 119 Chefnut-ftreet. §
nft —_____— « 1
D f. WA N T E D,
ag Several Apprentices to the Printing-
B'jfinefs Apply at t\ie Office of the Gazette of 4k«
he United States, No. Ix 9, Chefnut-ftrett. 4
' • ; ."... • \WVFor Sale,
i hat \ aluabie Estate known by the name of
Mount 'ope Iroiv- Vouks.
O* • ''-ite in the county of Morris, and ftatfe of New Jer-
O ft y • twelve miles from Morri—town thirty from
Town or Newark Landings; confiding of a
larg« urnace in good repair, with the bed wooden bel
lows, drove bv an overshot wfceel of forty feet diameter,
a Hellows-hoirfe, ea ting house, bridg«i-houfe, and a large
moulding-house, all in good o. der, together with a great
variety of the most approved patterns of pots,'kettles,
tea-kettle*, <Scc &c with a fulHciency of flafks therefor,
and also a great variety of all kinds of dove patterns, and
a complete set of patterns and apparatus for cading pot
ath kettles. Near the furnace is a large new magazine for
oliow ware, bar iron, &c. &c. a large convenient car
penter's and wheelwright shop, a blacksmithS (hop with
two fire#, a nailor's /hop, and a damping mill, a coal
noufe that will hoi i -fix hundred loads of coal, a large,
convenient dore, confiding of several rooms, two excel
lent barns and stables, a daughter-house near the dorc, '
together with a great variety ot .houses for the workmen
Arery convenient to the furnace. .
— Tl, ■ '10 tappuuu yviLii kv'lldr rom a number of
springs, which tender a fupplv certain : the oond confilts
of about thirty acres: the mansion-house is built of stone,
two ltories high, with four rooms with fire-places on the
nr!t floor, and a large,handfotire hall, and five rooms with
four fire-places ®n the second floor, with a very fine high
garret, in which there are two fire-places, with a hand
some piazza in front, the whole length of the house : at
each end of the house is a handsome wing; one used for
a kitchen, with servants rooms above; the other for a
counting-house-; and a cellar under the whole house. a well I
of the belt water at the door, smoke and other convenient
out-houfes, with two excellent gardens, in one of which f
is a large asparagus bed, several orchards of the best graft
ed fruit, and -one hundred and fifty acres of upland, which T
may be tilled to advantage. In front of the mansion-house c
and in full view, is a moll beautiful meadow of two hun- i
J and fifty acres, in which may now be cut one hundred
and fifty tons of the best Hay, besides affording a fufficien- „
cy of pasture for .-the teams, and as much more meadow n
may be cafily put in, besides raising a large quantity of i
corn, potatoes and turnips. The lands belonging to this r
eitate consist of about ten thousand acres ; on which are
the Mines for the works, two of which are of the best
•quality, one so near that a single horse and cart will bring „
ten tons per day, the other, a team of four horses may ]j
bring fix tons. Besides the above there are several other n
tpines of inferior quality very convenient, the iron of h
which is good for nails, and when mixed makes excellent o
cartings. The mines are in good order, with proper lev- a
els for drawing off the watur, and fhafts at proper dift- b
ances. Near the Works have been veral beds '<
r B £ S ° re ' a " d ,he '' e ' 6 "° doubt ' wilh a iittlc attention v
a fufhcient supply thereof may be procured. All the
mines are supplied with proper houses for the miners. :
Within a mile and a half of the furnace there is an inex- §
hauftable vein of limestone ; from whence not only a flip • | °
ply for the furnace may be had, but also any quantity for I
building or manure. Within less than a mile of the fur
nace is about twenty acres of the best double spruce for 'j
beer, and near it is a celebrated mineral spring; and two a ,
anda half miles from the furnace, within the trad, are i r
two valuable sites for Forges and Saw-Mills, on an excel- t(
lent stream of water; and two large ponds may be made,
and a permanent supply may behad, by a small cxpence, ti
trom a Lake of four miles in length and one mile wide, N
and adjacent a fufticiency of wood may be had: near to w
one of the sites is a good farm-houfe, and about eighty a- b
cres of arable land, a valuable orchard, and meadow to a s
cut thirty tons of Hay ; and ip the swamp that will form
the pond there may now be cut sixty tons of hay.
Belonging to the fame Estate, and
within three miles thereef, nearer the Landing, is a good
Nf.W FORGE, with two fires, in complete order and re-
J i'a r, situate on Rockaway river, which furnllbes a con
fupply of water ; adjoining which is a good conve
■ r. L dwelling-house, with three rooms and a good kit—
- on the firft floor, and a good barn and stable; also a
r convenient Store, which is now kept for the supply'
le ir.on-works>nd the country ; and this situation is
convenient for the works, mucft more so than to have
4 ' dry-goods store kept at the furnace.
Adjoining to the foregoing Estate,
and within four miles thereof, may be had if wanted, a
tfa& of fix thousand acres of Woodland, and a site for a
forge, on a stream of water very Efficient j n everj , re _
fpeift ; together with several houses ijew built, and a trasft
of three hundred and fifty acres of fine low land ; a great
part of which will make, with a little expense, meadow
fufhcient. to cut one hundred and fifty tons of hay ; a H d
bow affords a great supply of pasture—the residue is arable
and woodland.
AND ALSO TO BE SOLD, IT!
Ail that VALUABLE ESTATE, called u
Booneton Iron-Works, u
Situate in the county of Morris, within eighteen miles 01
of Newark Landing, and eight miles oi Morris.-To\vn : e<
containing about three thousand five hundred acres of land n<
lying on both fides of Rockaway river, for near four th
miles. p<
On the premises is a FORGE with four fires and two
hammers, in complete repair, which embraces the whole ar
river, a SLITTING MILL, built in the most approved
manner, with two furnaces for heating iron, with roils
pillars, cutters, and every other apparatus in 'he most com- ly
plete ordsr, with a blacksmith's Ihop, coal-heufe, &c &c.
On the fame dam is a very comp!eat SAW MILL ; so
that the flittir g-mill has the full command of the whole
river, with a head of twelve fcef.
Immediately below, End on another dam, is an excel
lent new GRIST-M(LL, with two run of ftV.nes, and
constructed lor a third. The mill is large, and conveni
ent for a merchant mill, and situate in « country which
will afford a conltajit supply of grain.
All the works are in compleat view of the mansion-house,
and within half a mile of it, which is a handsome, build
ing, with five rooms on tbe firft floor with fire places, and
' four rooms up stairs, all in excellent repair, with a hrge
kitchen and cellars, and a well of excellent water at the „
door. In front of the house is a piazza, sixty feet long, I
an excellent garden, with a great abundance of the best .
kind of Fruit: the out-lioufes are convenient and good ; m
confuting of a large spring nulk-houfe, ice-house, fmeke- so!
house, i'awl-houfe, corn-crib, root-house, good barns and
stables, &c. &c. Also, within view of the manfion
houfe, are twelve dwelling-houses, a counting-houle, a
stone houfs, occupied as a store for the country and work?
a large convenient house, with fix rooms, with fire
places, occupied by the clerks ; the residue of the houses
are for fof-gemen, millers, &c There is, adioiuine the
store, a POT-ASH WORKS, in compleat order, r. black
smith's ihop, and wheelwright's shop, and other conveni
eut appendages.
As Rockaway river runs through this estate about four ~
miles, in which diftancc near twenty mill-sites may be
made, so as'.o occupy the whole of this very valuable and
confumt supply of water, it may be justly considered as a (
very valuable ot>jc£l for any person or perfoas desirous of
going into the manufacturing line.
On the premises, jyid adjoining the mansion-house are u
about one hundied acres of arable land; whereon are two
orchards of three.huiidredtrees, ®f the b«ft grafted fruir
and within two miles anda half of the forge is a very fine p
Farm of two hundied and fifty acres of l,nd, in the bef'
and most compleat order, with one hundred acrcs of mea
dow, two houf.-s, n,good barn, and other neceffarv im- „
the residue is woodland, on which arc a L?'
number of houles for the colliers, &c &c &c
■ ■ Ry
yf y D ALSO,
Mear three tlicufand acre, of Land ; situate in the valley
S ' " -*_/
f Newfound].t»d, about mil's north weft
Boonetuit in the counties oi Morris and Sussex, whereo n
is a vwry Forge of two fires, a number of other
S, buildings adjoining thereto, for the acc6mmodation of the '■
er workmei, with an excellent vein of Iron Ore, situate a
bout oniimile weft from the tradl.
c m The above F.ftates will be fold on easy term*?, together
e j a with all the horses, oxen, waggons, tools, and every im*
plem n: neceflary to carry on the works. There is row .
. ' provided wood end ore for eight months blait; so that the
Furnace will be put in blast the beginning of June. Any
person wifliing to purchase, may have the whole as they
now arc: there is also wood, &c. &c. provided at Boone
or,
j ton.
* t The terms will be payment down for all the moveable
property of everykind, appertaining to the Furnace, and
one eighth of the purchase money—the residue in eight
1 , yearly payments, with the lntereft « unAually every year.
1 | A clear and indisputable title vyill be given ior the j
whole. Apply to Mr. Samuel Cjarkfon, in Philadelphia, 1
Mr. Peter M-ickie, Merchant, New-York, Water-street; (
or to cither of the fubferibers. j
7- 7- Faefch, ,
— "" " Samuel Ogde*l.. ]
fts Booneton, Morris County, May 2d, 1796-
May 14. twßwl I
PROSPECTUS \
Of a Cheap and Elegant Pocket Edition of
d- Sele£t and Entertaining Novels ; <
at Or, Novelist's Pockkt Library ;
or Printed in so cpnvenient a size that a volume may be
* carried in cach pocket with out the leait inconvenience;—
~ 1 being an agreeable travelling companion, affording amufe
nt ment in the garden, the field, or the shady bower, and
r 1 forming a valuable collevStion of Novels and Tales, writ
ten by the most approved authors, particularly
Fielding . Sterne I Marmontel Cervantes
c Smollet Goldsmith I Ratcliffe RoufTeau i
n " Richardson Brookes Hawkefworth LeSage, &c.
To commence with the ift volume of the celebrious no
-1 1" vel intitled The Myfteriesof Udolpho, by the author of
The Romance of the Forest, &c. ,&c. embellilhed with a \
0 beautiful engraved Frontifpiecc representing an interesting e
Lls fcenein the above, elegantly gilt, at only 75 cents.
CONDITIONS.
" These feleft Novels (hall be printed in handsome oftodeci
lg mo pocket volumes, on good type and paper, and with ade- r
i y licate new Bourgeois type on purpofefor the work, by which
:r means the page wlil beuncommonly comprehensive; each vo
sf lume containing in quantity a duodecimo, and sometimes an *
it oftavovolume, printed verbatim from the original copies, In ,
t- addition to thqelegance of the typography, each volume will 1
t. be embellished with a beautiful engraved frontifpiece, repre- c
j s lenting the most interesting scene that occurs in the refpeftive 0
1 volume.
Ie A volume will be published regularly every three weeks a
s and delivered to fubferibers neatly ane uniformly bound and o
gilt, at only three-fourths of a dollar each, to be paid upon h
j delivery. If a fufficient number of fubferibers are procured, 1c
the work will be putto press fomc time in anda vo» tl
lume published every three weeks in regular fucccfliou. The p
" this work may rely Mpon every poflible atten- t ]
r tion being paid to ensure elegance in ihe engravings, neatness v
0 and corre&nels in the printing, and uniformity in the bind- t j
c i°g» the whole being done under the immediate tendanc.y ©f
•- the pubiifhers.
Subscribers may withdraw and recommence their fubferip- 1
;, tions at pleasure, so as to confiae their choice to as few of the
;, Novels as they think proper, or extend their collection to the
o whole that are printed, which will compnfe only those high
. ly approved novsls which have been stamped with universal P
0 approbation. As ft
'ThcMyJleries of Udolpho Humphrey Clinker B
Romance of the Forcfl Amelia, E
1 Sicilian Romance Gil Bias
Cafile of ' Qtranto Peregrine Pickle C
Old Manor Honfc Devil upon Tivo Sticks
Sidney Caflle Adventures of a Guinea C
Desmond JLauncelot Greaves C
Family Party The Sifters P
' Tales of tbe CaJILt Don <3'uixotte S
Cecilia ; or, Tbe Memoirs of Count Fathom V
an Heirtfs Almoran and Ha met
Evelina ; or, a youn% lady's Solymun aud Almcna
entrance into the ivorld , Tales of the Genii F
American Hunter Moral Tales B
j Theodcjius and Conflantia Fool of Quality
a Cbinefe Tales Arabian Nights Enterteinms.
i Anna St. Ives Arabian Talesa continuation
Tom Jones . 0 f the Arabian Nights
t Vicar of Wakefield Julia, or the Netv Elvifa
t J c f e ph Andrews Pamela
f -ttoderic Random Clarissa Harlozve ol
i Triflram Shandy Sir Charles Grandifon ft
e Robinson Crufoe fa
Ihe publiiljer has notyet determined upon the arrange- m
ment in which the above novels fha.ll appear ; being de
termined to add and iutermix other novels of equal cele- ca
brity, altho' he is conicious, that by comparing the above ~
lift with ail former collections of this nature, the fuperi
g orjty of the present colle»5lion will appear obvious. Britiih *
. editors must neceftarily exclude from their plans, all the
new and entertaining novels that have been wrote within
r ' these last fourteen years, most of them being literary pro- Si
perty.
} further particulars fee the proposals at large which
, are t0 he had gratis of ThomasCondie, Book-binder, Nd. I.
j ao, Carter's alley, south fecond,below Chefnut Street, Ph
iladelphia, where orders and fubferibers will be thankful
' ly received.
liberal allowance to Booksellers, and others ta-
J king quantities.
N. B. An apprentice to the bookbinding business want
ed. June 25. f th&f. 31.
i For Sale,
A Few Casks of First Quality
INDIGO.
Enquire at No. 71, South Water street. 111
M (*y tht sis
TenerifFe Wine.
T ENERIF*E WINE, in pipes, hoglheads, and
■&- quarter casks, and 170 [Filtering Stones, just ar-
per the schooner Pelly & Sally from Teneriffe,and
for Sale by
John Craig,
No. 11 Dock street. jv
WHO HAS ALSO FOR. SALE,
Best Soft-ftiell'd ALMONDS,
RAISINS in Frails.
SHERRY WINE, in Quarter Calks,
Irilh CANVAS, v
Bristol and Irish WINDOW GLASS.
Ma y 3° eos
SHOT -
OF 11 Cies, from 32 lb to Grape, l ' e
Cambooles, Pots, and other callings executed 'at the -
(horted notice,
Kail rods, from iod to spike,
Hoop Iron, of all sizes, for caflcs or cutting into nails, from _
a brad to 1 id nails, ' 1
Anchors, from 17 Cwt-to loolb.
Bar Iron, Tl
A Quantity of James River Tobacco,
Carolina I'ork.
f-lerrings in barrels,
Kiln-diied core meal in Hhds.and Ebls. 1
Rye flour &c. to be fold by fe<
Levi Holiinr/ivortb & Son. da
4 S£ d
I
F 0 R S A L E,
\ few hundred weight of Salt Petre in bags
Bell Sherry Wine I H in quarter calks
: Champaigne in cases of 50 bottles
• A quantity of White Lead, Bar Lead, and Shot in calks
About 80 boxes tin plates, A few boxes of bed Castile
Soap entitled to drawback
An invoice of Walking Canes and Perfumery
Ditto Bandanna handkerchiefs, and
Some Elegant Italian Statuary.
Samuel Breck, jttn.
Rofs's Wharf.
June 18. eo6
JOHN PAUL JONES.
INFORMATION is hereby given, that the late John
Paul, Joiies was a proprietor of five shareS (amount
ing to about 5867 acres) in atra«sl of land purchased by
> the Ohio Company, in the territory of the United States
• of America, north-weft of'the river Ohio ; and that hia
heirs, or legaLreprefentative, on application to the direc
tors of said company,at Marietta in the territory afore
faid, wiU_xir«Muga deed of the said five lhares, or rights
OT iandT
The application may be made personally or by an agent,
but proper documents must be produced to prove the
claimant or claimants the legal heirs or representative of
the said Jones
n.b. As it is not known in what country the person
or persons interested reside, it will be an a«£ of benevolence
ia every Printer in America and Europe, who shall insert
this advertisement in his paper.
In behalf of the directors of the Ohio Company,
UUFUS PUTNAM.
Marietta, May 20,1796- [June 4] 3awgw
William Young Birch,
STATIONER.
No. I j South Second-Jireet; between Market and Chef
nut JlrtetSy
Has imported by the last ships from London, an exten
sive aflortment of the bed Stationary Goods,;
which he offers for sale on equitable terms. Amonglt oth
er articles he has fine wove vellum drawing paper, viz.
Antiquarian Elephant,double & firigle
-Atlas Imperial, Super Royal, &c.
Writing paper of the firft quality, viz. Imperial, fiiper
royal, royal, medium, demy, thick, thin, vellum, and
bank post, folio, quarto, gilt and plain, copy fooifcap,
pot, &c.
Merchants' account-books, viz. ledgers, single and dou
ble jonrnals, waste books, cash books, letter books, bank
check books, &c. Books of any size or pattern made to
order.
W. Y. Birch refpe&fully informs merchants, traders
and others, that the making 4 of account books is a branch
of his business which, having paid particular attention to,
he flatters himfelf he shall execute in such a manner as to
secure tbe approbation of his friends. And in order to do
this, he has been careful to provide himfelf with a stock of
paper from the mofl esteemed Englifti paper-makers, for
the purpose ; a fufficient quantity of which he shall endea
vor always to keep on hand, so as to enable him at all
times to meet the demands of his friends.
Quills and pens School bibies&teflaments
Ink and Jnk-ftands, pewter, India rubbers
lead and pocket Paper cases, red and black
Wedgewood and glass phi- Flat and round rulers
loiophical do. Pounce and pounce boxes
Pewter ink-chest* Shining sand
Mahoganywriting desks Sealing wax, fuperfine,®fine
Black ebony ditto and common
Ditto ditto ifik-ftands with Wafers, red, black and'col
plated furniture ored, fine and common,
Cards larg6 and small gilt large and finall'
plain Types and ink for marking
Copy-books ready ruVd linen
Copperplate copies Red morocco and black tra-
Print and colored map files veiling cases
Sand an defend bofces Bla ' lines for writing
Walkden's shining japan ink Pocket books
and red ink-powder Patent blacking cake for
Ivory knives and. fold era boots and fh'oes
Fine writing parchment Pen and {/ jrt/rnen's knives
Blank checks, bills of lading, Too'h powder and brulhes
and blanks for bills of ex- Razors, shaving boxes and
change, bonds, bonds & Wiadforfoap.
judgments, powers of at- Spermaceti candles of a fu
torney, indentures, mort- I perior quality
gages, See. | Sponges, large size
W. Y. Birch has supplied himfelf with a complete stock
of every article in the Stationary line, and aa he shall be
studious to execute his business in a manner the most fatis
faciory to he hopes to meet with encourage
ment and support. &
Country Store-keepers supplied on the bell terms sot
cafli. June »8. tt&s3t
proposals ~
TOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Plan of the City of Washington,
By THOMAS FREEMAN,
Surveyor of the territory of Columbia and City of Walh
ington.
CONDITIONS,
'• Thij P) an be an elegant and correil Copperplate
impreflion, of about four feet square, whereon wUI be
accurately delineated the natural Hate of the ground
contained within the lines of the city—plains, vallies t
rising grounds, springs, runs, creeks, &e. witli the lines
of the grand avenues, streets, squares, public appropri
auons lor walks, gardens, as now correclly laid out and
permanently eliablilhed— the river Potomak, and Eall
ern Branch, opposite -the city—the channels, Coafls,
harbours and foundings of the fame, as taken by order
or the Board or Commissioners.
n. On the fides of the Plan 11, all be represented a beauti
tul elevation of the President's House and tbe Capitol.
HI Torender the drawing still more intelligible and use
" , 1 accompanied.by a Pamphlet, containing
all th« laws of the general and particular governments,
refpeding the location and eftablilhment of the city—
the orders and regulations of the Board of Commission
ers, approved by the President of the United Sfat»s','re
lpecting the purchase and improvement of lots therein
a particular defenption of the city and adjacent country
—of the river PotSmak, with the produ&ions, slate of
cultivation, commerce, population, Wc. of the country
through which that vast river flows.
1V " work will bti publiffied undtr the fanclion of the
Commissioners of theCitf, and shall meet with their
lull approbation before it appears in public: and Mr
Freeman pledges himfelf to make it as accurate ufeful
and eutertaining as polfible.
V. The price to fubferibers 5 Dollars, to be paid on recep
tion of the Plan and Pamphlet. i
S^ C rj offiCe ' Cit >' of w *fl>ingto n> June 8, , ,06.
• Subscriptions will be taken at the Surveyor's offire
'rMnh- Clt),; J k' Ce S BookftoT " 'n Baltimore and Phila
jt " " theprindpal B -Moresonthe Consent. 1
nwjw <
rea fury Department ;
Marcb loth > 1796.
PROPOSALS will be received at the office of thr
Phi N d °i 1?' "V he , T"
North-Carelina, ' Udcl P hla ) for building in J
I. A Li«ht-Houf e „ ponCape . Ha , leras
iteKat 1 c> ? k
seen on application at ,h P f P ar,lculars . "lay be
dans Superinten
"e, or of the Collecaors of the C ors of thd Reve-
State. ;is also at this office Cua ° m> n an y of the
sawjni
Wafhingtori Canal Lottery,
N°. T.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifcd
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thouf.ind,
e two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, from the Po
tomac to theEaftern Branch Harupur.
The following is the SCHEME of No. f#'
Viz •-i Prize of 20,000 dollars, ao.oOo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn }
Tickets, each | 5,000 iSfioo
6 ditto r.ooo 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
20 ditto 100 2,000
n jj ditto 50 2 ' t7so
5 7jo ditto _ 12 69,008
1 To be raised for the Canal, 16,250
s
S jßjo Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
8 175°° Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
The Commiflioners have taken the Securities re
, quired by the iforefaid aiff for the punduil payment of
e the prizes.
f The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
1 notice will be given.
2 Such prizes 4s are not demanded in fix months after the
t drawing is finifhed, shall be cririfiaered as relinquilhed for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
■ „ JAMES BARRY.
City of WafhißgtoH, Feb. 11, j
■' The First Floor and Cellar,
OF a three-flory Brick House to be LET, situate ©n
Dock-street, between Second and Walnut ffreet—
; Very foitable for an Office or Wholesale Store. Enquire of
j JAMES JCEEGAN,
No. 62 Dock Street,
' J une ** eo.n
For Sale,
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
IN New Jersey, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbour. '
The Grift Mill is sixty by fort) feet, two Vater wliepti,
and calculated for four run of Stones, with ftratn, fans
' and boulting-cloths, &c. The Saw-Mill has two
capable ofcuttingfiveto 6 100 thouiand feet of Boards per
. year. A valuable piece of Cedar within a mile
and a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
of a Landing The Lumber, &c. may be taken by Water
from the mill tail.
ALSO FOR SALE,
Several Valuable Tracts of Land,
In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be receiv
ed in the notes of Messrs. Morris and Nicholfon, or in
Cash.
For further information apply to the Printer
Ma y '7- saw
City of Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, Mo.IL
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars. & ?
dwelling-house, 5 cash 30..000, are £ s°>ooo
1 ditto 15,000 & call. 15,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
r ditto -5,000 & cash 5,000 ro.oco
1 ditto 5;,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of I0)003
2 do. 5,000 each, are, - I0)000
zo do. 1 ,000 - . , OjOOO
20 d °- *°° • ' 10,000
00 *»■ 100 - - 10,000
?°° d J>' • • 10,000
400 do. 25 . . I0)000
IjOOO do. 20 . 2
Is '°°° do - 10 - - 150,000
i 6>739 Prizes.
3&>26i Blanks.
50,000 T!ckets > at Eight Dollars, 40)OOGO
N. B. To favour those who may take of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will bethe l Ist drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but o« W "
And approved notes, securing payment in either moncv
or prizes, in ten daj6 alter drawing- will lw • ai
any number not less than 30 ticket, ™
JStlfiWSaxiSgStS'.- *«*•
Two beausiiul dtfignsmc already reWle afSSff"
fronts on two of the public squares ■ ttr, *
it is proposed to erect two centre an A . praw.ngs
as soon 'as poliible after ttEWftTS
them, when complete, to the fortun^e\? . - y
the'manner described in the fchemc for flip T*™' ' a
A nett dedfaftion of five perccKll K, ~
the necefTary expenses of printing, &c. and the°f f*
will be made a part of the fund intended for theNatbfa&
Oniverhty, to be erected within the city of W a fhin«o„
f,IT ff ThlT g commence as soon as the ticket, art
SLtti fi T nl™d°rL P d r^;tes e Cr y th'Vf tyd "
numbersa.e not produced within twelve numIJSSPSi
t&i r giv z
the whole business in a yeJrfrom
■ng and to take up the bond, given as f. curity "
«
"I r-yM* i£iS« °<
a second time ori behalf of the public . a
ber of these having kindly accepted it is U a t nUm "
friends to a National Uni.verf.ty and'tbe otherVed I
jests may continue to favor the defior.. "1 ob-
By accounts received fr«m
Cqntineut as well as from Europe, where ? the t
have been sent for sale, the public ire f(T the '"ket t
/• rp» « , $-AMUEL elodget
«§* 1 lekets may be had at the Ranter r. 1 ,v
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Giln ° f
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of RmT'j w®" 1
Cooper's Ferry. ' 01 Rlcha rd Wells,
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN No
—No. lig —
r CHESNUT-STREET.
[Price Eight DoUars per Annum.]