of the States, <£>» Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
Number x 291.] •' FRIDAT EVENING, OCTOBER 28, -1796. X.
TT rANTS a situation at CLERK,in a mercantile house
V\ in this city, a young man who can be well recom
ms-ded: he is well acquainted with book-keeping, and
writes a good hand. Enquire of the editor of the a
. rtsu»f the United States. .
I Prober 13. 21.
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN jun. k CO.
r.ccivcd Pfr rhe William Pcnn, in addition to
iheir own I
A confinement of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele-I
• nt London patterns ; also a few cases of handfomfi J
Which will be soli at a short credit, on very
r.itor.abie terms, by the package only.
v o<i. j4. * I
Just Landing,
At South Jlrett wharf from on board the /hip SeJg- I
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peter/burg, I .
The following Goods:
Raffia Sail Dwelt, firfV quality. * 1
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper-
Do. Hucknback. I
Do, Crash. 1 r
Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to the lb. of the I
English size. I i
% Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White Soap in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of line yarn.
Ravens Duck. |
lfinglafs, Ift and snd fort.
Horse Hair uncurlcd.
Ruflia Bar Iron. >
Do. Hoop Iron. . I
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk. 1 | r
St. Peterlburg Clean Keinp. I r
For Sale by - "7
Philips, Cramond, & Co. I
ra.
. (
tor Charter, L
The Ship Dominick Terry,
D« Hart, mailer : an excellent *
vessel, of about 3000 barrels burtMen. I"J
"Jejfe Ss° Robert Wain. s
September 2T. d j I
or Charter, c
The Danilh Barqlie Bbnetentura I ®
Samuel Stub, master, j j
good veflfel, of about two J
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WAI.N. 6
Sept- 17. dtf
FOR LONDON,
The capital (hip CERES,
■'3' 0 Oon : —^ or freight °f paffagt J
apply to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or I
John Vaughan, I _
September m. Ercnt-flreet.
— r ■ ■ ■&.»' I
' The Brig MARTi
■* wr Lyingat MefTrs. Willings and Francis's J
whnrf,burthen iCOO barrels,built iriPhiladelphia in 1773 I W
of live oak and red cedar.—She is well found, and may j
be sent to sea at a small expencc. For terms apply to j
Gurney £9° Smith.
oft. 6. dtf. A
- . | L \
For Boston, Newbury-Port and Ports
mouth, New-Hampshire,
JtThe Schooner LUCT, J 'j o '
V I^^/ ® an ' el Pfowfe, master ; will fail iji Q
1 r ,lle course of a wcelt > and take freight e d
t on moderate terms, for which, or Ui
" pafFagt, apply on board, or to 22
Joseph Anthony, S5 5 Co. 24
OAober 17 . » * H in
! ~ J (j C
Just arrived, and will this day be lan- a <
ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at Chefnut fir
flreet wharf. nil
25 Tons befl Rujjict Clean HEMP wi
56 Tons old Sable flat IRON, I u '
*00 Co.ls Dcil Ruflia CORD AGE, aflbrtcd sizes,
400 Pieces brown Ruflja SHEETINGS, I t^l:
100 Bolis RulTn DUCK, I lin
240 Pieces Ravens do. j T;
ao Half-diwn feather beds, and | gr
A few piecesafforted DI/> PER. j t j„
FOR SALE BT en
Joseph Anthony and Co.
The abovc mentioned BRIG Ij"
aew c ' a V s » anc ' tak- freight on I tu ,
moderate terms for Boston or Salem, for tI
or pair,ge ' af,ply on bo " d op,
c-ggv For SAL E,
Tl,e Schooner INDUSTRY, bin
j y- t vcn ton?burthfi n, almofta new wil
▼ci.vl and well found. Eor tarns apply to j loft
Joseph Anthony & Co. I'-1
If the Industry is not fold in a few days, & e will take ed *
freight very low for Bollon. ' " is :
_o£oW M . twi
For Freight or Z<
ihc fll ip COMMERC E I tro '
mMrj NATHANIEL CUR I IS, Master. 'h"
&mM veffeU 214 ,o,u w,cn - win! an .f,
% ready to rcceivc a car s o in a lew days, for VVi^
»pp'y onboard at Bright*, wharf, or to rcn<
Joseph Anthony & Co. lead
For Sale on Board the atone Vtj l '
A quantity of excellent COAL. hTvi
ed tiiftrd t°iei' r ' I pcrn?iu? OdS b ° ,rd ' 48 f
Qa ° ber2l - diot witl
FOR SALE, ~ i'j
jA T HE SHIP MART, sive
SAMULL PARKER, MA S te«,
hundred tons burthen. Apply to O
JOSEPH ANTHONY, &Oo —
li the MARY is not fold in a few days, she will take
Ircight for Hamburg. Apply as above. a
>Jc!o'j«r ai. djo£
house Just Arrived,
'"nd -B; the Fly, Captain Hubber, from London,
■ Ga- Double racked, Brown Stout Porter,
in hoglheads.
•6d Painters' Colours, in i-x and 1-4 twt. kegs, packed in
hoglheads.
I Copperas in hoglheads.
I Whiting, &c. . For Sale by
Peter Blight.
OAober 25. d*tts»w
, n t 0 —
] I Fof Sale,
some Thit day Landing from on board the Jhip Concord,
ver y Captain Thompson, from Amjlerdam,
I Gin, in pipes
I Empty Gin Cases
I Hock in cafos of 4 doz.
I Glass Tumblers in chells
I Sweet Oil in cases
icdg- I Patte Graffe Cheese in boxes, t£?c.
I Also Landing by the Louisa, Capt. Bell, Jfom Li/bon,
60 Quarter-cnflcs Lifton Wine.J
I On Hand,
I A quantity of Brandy, Hazle-Nuts in sacks, &c.
/ Peter Blight.
I 17. d2vv eoaw
r the The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
I /""'APTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif-
I V>l bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
28 Pipes of Brandy '
18 Bales of Spanilh wool
3 do. of Annifeed ,
I 7000 B'ifhels of belt Liftxjn Salt
80 Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS. I
ALSO,
Seventy Hoglheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
J received by the (hip Domlilick Terry, Capt. De Hart,
I from Kingston.
„ J Sept. 13. d
LANDING,
I ® ut °f different •vejfels from England, and for sale
by the fubjeribers on reasonable terms,
I Superfine and common cloths, and caffimers
Ribbed and striped do. do. c
llent ®' an ' :ct6 > mottled green and silk rugs. 1
n I Superfine blue, Claret, and common coatings,
j Kerseys, Bear-lkins, plains and Halfthicks, \
I Swanftins, Serges aiyl Flannels,
British Ingrain Carpeting,
j HatsafTorted in 1 cases of 12 doz. each.
I Chocolate chintzes, printed Callicoes and Handkerchiefs.
, RA I Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
» I Yarn, Worded, and Cotton hosiery,
Beavers, Tliickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. &e.
I Buff and drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality.
J. I 6d. Bd. I#d lid. aod. nails, and frying pans,
An alfortmcnt of Ironmongerry, Cutlery and a variety
I of India cotton, and silk goods.
Thomas £2° JoJhua Fijher.
No. s> Dcck-fttrect.
fa I ( Alio by the Glasgow from Dublin,
I t-8 and 4-4 Irish Linens alforted in boxes of 30 pieces,
•OT j do. Brown, Glazed Liflnen.
oa - *7: dtf. -
FOR SALE.
fOftT WINE, and 1
HOLLAND GIN, of the firft qualities in Pipes.
I FRAUNCES and VAN REEDj
is's 1 Brokers and Cottimiflion Merchants, No. 6 5, So. td St
y 3 Who discount approved NOTES of hand. ' t0
lay | N- B. An APPRENTICE Wanted. th
September <4. - mw f
FOR SALE, ~~
■ An elegant HOUSE, No. 78, Walnut- a
ftreetj
Ir. V I| HICH h25 feet / ront ' b y l n feet deep, with a
lot adjoining, 20 1-2 feet wide, by 72 feet 8 inches
in P eP " um J? b > ack ° f the house o «tipied by
in George Willing, Esq.) The house is completely finij
or u C T ery ref P ea - h is J° fcet deep, has two
large p Hours, the front one 24 feet, the back one is "
" T'f 7k l 'c seCt ' .1 handsome drawing-room,
24 1-2 leet by 24 feet lhs'room< below, the draw-
he cha ™ bers adjoining, have mahogany
doors, and these as well as the- rooms above them have
a ~ si ft° m, !I U f niCa^ 0 n W ' th " Ch ° rher ' Tfce hei « h t in the
nut firft and feeond story is u f eet , an d have ftoco cor
n.ces, and nine rooms up. flairs, besides the garrets, '
which aue divided into three rooms, a good kitchen ~
waft.h<mfe, milk and bathlng-houfes, a hrge ic "_'
house, a pump in the vard, and a 3 feet 1 inch allev
hat leads into Fourth-street, The cellars Jre hid with ,
lime, and floored with two inch plank, and plastered T
The yard .« well paved, and the house is clear of F
j ground- rent. All the rooms have bells in a
the chamber bells ring in the garret a- w P 'l ' 'I 1
entry down Halts. A ll the ,he'tileT
TTu* e r e " ext t0 the d«wmg ,00m,
o" aH "^r7w°in P gtr r lom,.the"
the 0 tldZryf '
- Z £Zt % d B
hav-e large elofefs, and in the cellar is a Jar J L t fe* I
rack, a wine store is taken off of the cellar ?nH I
bms to hold bo.tled ltquor are made in fnin " I
w with padlocks to them ; the whole cellar and th r °T 1
- '
, ed <
>S fold. Two .brick stables in -"5
two coach houses. one of them will hold twn Wl • cnti
- j age 6, the other one. The fmalle'l rt-il I v n " S
three, and the largest fo,^fou"^TZ s? ~
, rent, and has the nf Is clear of ground p
With two inch plank a nd en,ences ' the Ce,lar is lai <> 0n
' Per month. This buHdin® JT r . ent ' d at d «",r S
« 1 dollars 3-4 per annum f ° P'" oUnd reilt ot
give immediate pofleffion of." '' flabl " 1 would '
George Meade, J
j OA. 26 N °' ?8 ' Walnut Street. r
: _J dx. ii
; 'A A* T F n
An APPRENTICE to the fir.-La p. p f v
Enquire at this oili«. ' Ejfnift. w
For Sale,
Carolina Rice in whole and half ticrces,
Cotton of Cayenne and Trinidad,
> Soal Leather, entitled to drawback, »
Bo ft on Beef, and
m Mo#ld and dipt candles.—-Apply to J
lfaac Harvey, juri.
No. 5, South Watcr-ftreet.
roth mo. 17. djw.
SaJes of India Goods.
The fcargo «<i' the ship Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cai- F
ordy t cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
A Large and general alTortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTOfo and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked andplain Mufti lis,
Doreatf, t3*c. Also,
fy on A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
la boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings & Francis,
No. 21 Petan Street. j
w June % §
"[(•' Irifli Linens, &c.
. . IV
Imparted pet the Jhips Glafgaiu, from Dublin, Liber-
tj, from Cork, and brig Mentor, from Betfaj?, j
4.4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In whole and half boxes, ft
Assorted from ud. to 4s. sterling—Also 5-4 wide T
3. Sheetings, and low priced yarn and worsted Hose. R
On Hand, V
RS, 7-j Wide Lawns. t Q
[art, Dupers aiid Table-Cloths
A few boxes Ticlcens and Checks
A few hates Flannels .
Cork and Belfaft Sail Cioth, Nos. t and 6
IS f 6 by 8,
fate 10 Ditto > Window Glass, -i 7by 9,
5 V itto J < 8 by 10.
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
drawback, and will be disposed of by the package on
reasonable terms.
James, Clibborn & English,
1 No. 6, N. Front-street.
loth fno. 19th. dtf
eft. Just Imported,
Tin Plates in boxes
Sheet and bar Lead
Shot—all sizes, paten' and common
Copper bottoms and sheets
Englifli {hoes and boots in cases
ety Taunton Ale in calks of io doz. each
Basket Salt
Wool Ca*ds
Gold Watches. 4
FOf Sak by
:e £ , Simon Walker,
Oct. 7» niwfim Dock-street
For Sale*
My y WARDER, PARKER If? Co. Cc
An Invoice of Cofdage, pia
St Confiding of different ftzesf from 12 inch cables down sa!5 a !
to rope of 7, inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 17. dtf Sw
— . M — — Pri
Landed this Day, Ho
't- At Morion'J Wharf from the brig Fame, Captain
Knox, P ac
, a A quantity of Rarbadoes Rum & Sugar.
Ifs For Sale by
!?? Kearny Wharton,
Oflober 24. (16
•: — —-—- ;
For Sale, '<
ny By *Jebu Hall ngfworth, Co. ;
vc hhds. Wed-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof, '
lie 5 Barrcls he(l indigo, and, 1
A few thbufand bulhcls of Turk's lfland fait. I
£ oft *1- -a. iqua
n, ~ j
«- Wants a Place, &
Y> Either as Clerk Or Book-Keeper in a Store, a Person 4
1 whe can produce good references as to character, & c .
; Apply at th Office of this Gazette; "
Oiflober 14. 0
id — u — '
* I JOHN MILLER, J un . & Co. c
as No. 8, CHESNUT STREET, £ "~
e- Have Imported in the late vcfTcls from Europe, &c.
Ie amd have lor sale, Fro>
:o A general aJTortraent of GOODS, suitable to the season
1 . Amongst which are,
d TJROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
?t 13 Plain and twill'd COATINGS,
Ie R<>fe Uriped and point BLANKETS,
:c FLANNELS and B <USES,
~ HATS assorted in cases, 0
.. IRISH LINENS,
. INDIA GOODS, ganerall*,
A of IRONAtoNGERY, a
e Co " l P r 'fing a capital affortmentto open aftore—inclu
h dmg Thirty Cast s of NAILS. This invoice Will b-fold
. entire 011 very advantageous terms. 1 A
* September sc. d I rcpa
t — ■ — also
y A CLOSE COACH, which has rim about 7 months, — n( 5
i -I X an ; a pair of brown, able-bodied HoKsrs, for sale or
on rcafonable terms. Apply at No. 63, south Third- Ville
j O
P S The coach is more particularly calculatcd for the
winter season, having large glais lights and Venetian blinds.
1 r 84 "- d»w
[ SAILCLOTH. AtE
1 On Monday, the 3 ijl injl. mailt be Sold Co *
at Public Sale, at the Store sf Mejfrs. of h:
1 George Hunter Sff Co. No. 1 ci, Pearl ted , l
Jireet, New-Tori, 53 ° 0 ?Z
275 Pieces of the Best
Englifli Weft Country Sail Cloth, toT
By w"nV V P sf° nS T Cil . ,ed £aft Coken ' and ' h y °thers any"
, '-"ken-—lt is ol known excellency; wtars FOR
white, and does not mildew. 0n ., (1
d„ 9 t k us
' * " ' " '■<
Wm. Holpe-rnesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A IVtil Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, ansj
t Haberdashery Goods,
kV> Which he will fell, wholesale a«d retail, oh the very
low eft terms ;
Slmontrjl lubich afe
Some elegant 4 4 jmd 7-8 Chintzes and Cottoni, new
Cai- P'ttcrns
Ditto furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
,dras Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Mucins
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
>, Mantuas of the firft quality '
» Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, afTorted
lrifli Linens, very fine, and Table Lirtens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Refe Blankets assorted-—Sec. &.C.
o<slobtr 26. d
t, "
* Imported in the late arrivals from Europe and the
u Wej}-Indies,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique Molaflas, IS hog/heads
Choice old I.!fbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-cafka
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-calks
MaJmfey Madeira Wine, in pipes and fluarter-cafks
nde Teiieriffe Wine, in pipes
Russia & Flemish Plieetinjr and Ravens Dusk, in cafe*
Window Glass, & by la, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in caflcs
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on band,
A few chtfts of ftohei Tea ; JefJitu Bark ; AfT3fre
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of ColTaes,
Baftas, Gurrihs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete aflbrtment of 5-4 and 6-+
t j, e Bjulting Cloths.
ou For Sale by
, Pragers £9° Co.
Oflober 20 d2wm&tham
Country Rum,
— And a few pipes* of Vinegar,
For Sale by
Ezekiel Hall y
At the stores of Mr. Edward Stow, jun. No. 4, South
Water-street. October 10. d
■ ,
A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS.
John Miller, jun.. & Co,
Exchifivc of their own Importation now opening,
Have received by the William Penn, Caroline acd Diafi*
_ CONSIGNMENTS,
Which comprizo a capital ailoi titrent to open 1
Dry Goads Store.
'g —Amongst them are—
Common, super and fuoeaine Cloths^
Plain, twili'd and (liip'd Coining*,
„ n Baizes and Flannels,
; n Point, rose and duffil Blankets,
Plain and puntea Caftimeres,
Swanfdowns,
_ Printed Calicoes,
Scotch Threads,
Hosiery.
in They* will he fokf either in whole, or in part, fey the
package, on terms which-render them an objed worthy of
attention to purchasers. dtf Oil. 21.
i•' * #
Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Maekarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbls.
47 bbls. prime Coffee,
Best B oft on Beef,
Codfifh in hds.
Spermaceti Candles*
Spermaceti, and 7 . T
Northern J OIL,.
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a home#
, quality.
A few boxes excellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
n 40 Pipes excellent Lilbon Wine. a
A few sacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Mtidins.
FOR SALE BT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
(j x
.. Landing this day,
From on hoard the Brig Caroline, at Chefnui-Jlrect
_ wharf,
FORTY" PIPES
London proof Holland Gin.
For Sale by
yo/eph Anthony & Co.
October it. g
/ To be Rentedj
I A Small and Convenient BR E IV ER T, at
i 1 Morris Ville," opposite Trent en.
1 ALL the Apparatus for Brewing new and irt good',
repair: A number of Barrels and Half Barrels will
also be rented. Pofleffion may be had at any time.
Enquire of Mr. Garrett Cottringer in Philadelphia,
. or Mr. Robert Morris, jun. or Daniel Mun at Morris
. Ville.
j Odlober 20, 1796. mth&saw
!-" — '
Loft Last Evenings
At Rieketts's Amphitheatre, (supposed to be taken by
losne rillain out of a gentleman's pocket)
f A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about lßj dollars in banknotes; three note#
of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 3°J and 306, da
ted 12th last August, payable 60 days after date, to the
r™ P : ul S ' emcn > together for 51,50 dollars; an ordor
of Mrs. Ann IV acpherion, from Paul Siemeri, on Lach
lin Mac Neal, Esq. at Port-au-Prince, f r 100 dollars ; be
letters and papers of no use bat to the proprie
tor. The: of hand and order are without endow
ment. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to
FOrIy DOLI ARS fecl,r!> the thief, and
OR 1\ DOLLARS for only bringing the above meuti-
M 1 ° A a " paperS at N °- COTD " F>ont an 4
Mulberry streets. 4 Oft n■PRICES CU'RREN T. >
Philadelphia, Oft. 28.
?T.R —DOLLARS AT 100 CENTS.
Dol's. Cts. Da!is- Ci J
JXCJJORS, pr. lb. II Nails, %d, IC\7, lief,
F.ngl:Jl>ypr eivt 7 75. and 20d y per lb. 13
r'l'9, Rbshy pr lb. II per lb. 12
Ajbcs, pot per tarty 170 0/7, linseed, per gall, 133
— 'Pearly 150 0//w,
Arrack y per gallon y ditto, per cafe, 9
Rr/fltf, SJ?ouldzry~pr.ib. to -Sweet* bej} % "in
FlUdeSy 1,5 Jlajhsy per boy, IO
firifriyy cwmoriy I 60 -ditto bafketSy 12
- - Con'taCy 2 25 bottles, 7
-VViY?, per 'torty 90 ——Spermaceti pr frail I 06
J?+£cir* ffr AT. ~ 'train,pet bbl. 18
lh< J!;ipy per ctvt. 6 ■» IVbale, per gal. 4O
piHOy 'pilot 9 s°. Porter, ptjr cash, J so
Ditto y small ivater London,per d:x. 2CO
; .fr 9® "' American do. halt.
American, ffl /»#/•» infl. - 2
fifty per dvztny % 9ot- Pitchy per bbl. 4
'Vr included, I 60 Pork, Burlington, per
Til perlarrely 6 barrel, If) to 29
' 7 i r. J s,Cedar fcrMfeet 30 Lonuer county, 19
—— Ifeart, 30 Carolina, 16
Englartdy 9,6 80 Peas, Albany, pr bujb. 9 1
<W, . 26 Pepper, per lb. 38
—~-*''erchantablepiftey2 8 Pimento y 14
' •&#, do. 18 Raifirsy bejl per w 'ie* IT
Tyfahoganyypr.fooDitto per jar-y 6 '
are thefiallop Ditto per box 8 1
prlcfSy for the yard Rice, per ciut. £ t
pricey add I dollar, barret 4 /o
33 ff/ifc, far M. Rum, famaica, pr gal. I 67
'3rim/lone in rolls, pet u-Antigua 1 JO. 4
W<- 3 33 'Windward I JO C
BeefyßoQony per b11.1% a 26 -Barbados I 27 ;
■■ ■ Country, ditto IJ ■ Country, 2?. 97 (
'■ 1■ ■ ■ rntf. 5/» 8 Saltpetre y per eivt. JJO
'Sutter per lb. 13 i2O Tafras, jt«r ton j 4
—— in iegs lij* 14 Wa/,' 12a
Cardies lb. 56 S/«/, German, per lb. 14 [
ax —Encrlijby blijl.pr civt. 12 14 y
= — Myrtle IVait 20 —American > per ton 133 33 "
■ AAould tallow iB/® 19 —Croiuley's, pr fav«6t .
■ Jtiipptd I'S Snabe rooty per lb. 35 "
Cbeeje, Englijh, per lb. 38 .W/, bro-.vn per lb, II K
Country II 13- —IVbite 14 r
Obscolatc »5 *Ji —Ca/ffi/- if 1 f,
Cinnamon 66. SiarcM 14 ■
CUvet IgO Snuff.pr Jo'z bctt'l 50
CBcoa, ifr ct\l. to Sperwatett refinefpr lb.
Cope, per lb. ij /o 30" 5,,;/ c/,/4, A r «. d
C.al, per biijbel, 40 per yard, 23 11
Cipperat, per civt. ,3 No. 1, do, 30 "//
Cordage, American, per 4 \&. z, Jo.
eivt. 16 « 18 lump, per to. 2 ~ V
"Motion, per lb. 33 tr> 5° Jingle res. 27
Currant, 16 Ditto double ditto 01
7W, RuJJia,perpiece, 15118 Havannab, xvbitt 40 tf
1 Ravens II jo 1 'Ditto broiun 16 J.
Dutch Sail Duel 11 —'Mu.fcovadop.euit II«r? 67
Feathers, per lb. 66 Eajl India, pr.
Flax, ditto II £T,'/. j4, fr '
Fltxfeed, per bujbel I ,T/i. Turpentine pr gall. 66 pi
Flour, Sup. per b!. 10 S° Salt, allum, pr bujbcll 60 in
Common 10 —Liverpool
Bur mitidl. bet, 6 a'o —C.adyz (jf-j ,
Meal, Indian 5 ->-LiJlorl jfi
ditto Rye, 6 Ship building it 7 . 0. jf*
&bip Qt/ffp ct. 3 frames per ton- 1Z 67
FuJlic p/r ton, 25' Ditto Live Oat, 26 »•;
Qin, Holland per £nfe, 7.?0 Do. Red CeJar pr foot .1"
2>o. X 40 Shingles 18 inches,pr
Glue, per lb. 18 M 4, rI J
Ginyr,wL'tc rate,pmutls Ditto tfeet 9 12
t>ittt, common T6 Ditto 3 feet drejfed 17 22 'h
Ditto, ground 24' Staves, pipe pr 1000, 65 I ■
Ginseng, p/r lb. 30 — luhite-oakhogshead 45 33 p
Gunpowder, cannon,per ——^Rcd-oat ditto* 28
? r - . Leogan 2 6 33 m
fine glazed, z'6 Barret JO ,13 '
Wbtatpr i 1 88a2 Heading 44 th
~~*—Rye, I' Otter, be!} pr piece tTt 1 *
• Otb, 40 —Minis , ,(
—Indian Corn', I 10 —fa*, grey' »9 /o J4 *
Barley, r 20 —Ditto red I 20
« bejlfbelledpt.lb. —Martinr - c P«
• Buclivheat- per —Filers' cl<
' 75 — 3 w j
JUms,pr.lb. T3 —Racoons 60
imported, per —Muji-rati, yj '
SCO —Heaver, eer fir t6» ""
American, per Id. 10 —Deer, in hair 25 i 3 1
ittrrings, per bbl. 6 Tetr, tli
Hides, raiu pr. lb. 8 <09 —Canlina, 31 gall. 2co W ;
c t s ' IO Turpentine, per bbl. 320 j n
ihvjbeud hoops per M. 30 Tobacco, Ji River befl
Indigo, French per lb. 125 lOO.'i. 7 a ''
; Carolina, I Pete,jiurg 646 50
Irons, fad per ton 133 33 PetoiumXc 3 ' pr,
Tron, cajlings per cmt\ 4 Georgia- 6, 7 f t]
—I'cnnfylv.bar fcaree 4,5
120 m 1-26 67 Tcti livfvn;- per lb. I to 2 '
Rvjfia per ton t 97 —Hyson Jin, 83 'P n
5 * —'Souchong, Ia 1 13!^
22»t 33 Congo, 50 Ipt
Nail rods', li;-, H —Bobea,
>/.i„ per cut. S Tall™, refined, per 18. 14 .T1 ,
i-ir..', io.e' /!"• tf. 14 7f», 16 5 o ;w "
' lead in pigs, per c-tLt. J35 fW.'A7,. />,,«, of
'»7 Per ■•'gfeafc, d'j. , j 1
■white, ~3 33 frniiliiM, Jt , Jy
~ , 'V Vanityper gallon, " lv|
Leather, foal per lb. 20 :Vax, Sees, ber lb. ,
vitee peribn, *4 IVLale-bone. lm>,p r IS. 12
4_J IVine, Madeira', p. 226 | .
Mace, per lb. 13 Z'/ion, xv; las,
Maeiarel, tef, per bbl H Tenerif-,vrgal. ,5 ! TO; '
second quality g f.iya/, ,5.
Madder, befi per lb. 20 r F,rt per pipe 160
Mcl-ble wrought pr foot 60 . Do.in boU. p, do- 6
Mast spars d.tto 60 Claret,perea/i 50 of
per gall. 56162 AWv, iter gallon ,1 40 to
Muf.ari, per lb 46 ' t(;
y*ury m bottle* dor. 1 20 y
per doz.cn, I 20
— — obj
\ The S übfenbers have for fate mc
The following GOODS: li&
C. hsrer in h opflieid?
Do. of the firft.quality, in bottles >5 J
Malaga wine ' its
CM red Port do. c jjj
Madeira (Xondcn partuufar) fit for immedi- l, u
ateufe. j
Philip.j, Cramnd iff Co. c)^
27. „ j
LOST, yetlerdav 'afternoon, £<*■
A BUNCH of KEYS, of which will be I w t
tiiantlul te any person who may have- found the fame, to I '
J ave thuvrwuii the printer. Od. 27. 2 !as ,
W A N IED, ~ 1
A WOMAN who is capably of taking eare 06a Child
and ivjio will occafionaHy do other ltivicc in a imall fa- ner
J.iily; a pood chara&er wid be necessary. Apply a t to
Ko. icq. ?r-race-ftreet. pa » 7 . 4 cur
b'niverlity of Pennh vania, • tcl
Oiloicrs, 1796. to
Th t Medical Lcduxcs will cunuucuce t:e firft Monday /*'
:i t»w3w cur
1 .
For the Gazette of the United States. ' <
PHOCION—No. XI. ' '
THE opinions of Mr. Jeffcrfbn, relative to the '
present conjlitution of the United Stalci, ate nextjh) 1
order to be con(id:ied. :
r . If he is not aut'ifederal, it will not be denied that
he entertained very conlidt'rable objc&ioaa to the '
33 constitution, -and that his advice 'to call a second 1
convention, if adopted, would have prevented our
having ever obtained so good a one. '
Some of his opinions, relative to the constitution/ e
are to be found in a feiies of letters, written from 1
Paris, in the yeai3 1783 and "Partial extracts '
from these letters were publiftied in 1 j, by s ffrend t
of Mr. Jeffcrfon, as a vindication ot his ferferalifm. r
How far they eflablifhed it will now appear. a
eo Is>"a letter, dated 20th December, 1787, after o
e'xpriflinfr his approbation of some of the leattites <
of the new conllitution, \yhich had been generally &
approver of, and which he could not well object to, g
he fays, " I will now add what Ido not like i firft, '
the orr.iffion oi a bill of tigh'ts, £tc. &e. The fe
cond feature i diflixt, and greatly dislike, Ts, tile d
>3 in every inftanie, »f the necessity of f'
' rotation in office, and mojipjrtfciildrly in thecafc of ti
the Prefider.t. Smalfer ohje£tions srff, appeal '<
in fad as well as law, and the binding all periods, ti
legislative, executive, and judicial, by oath, to main- ei
tain that eanjiiititi-.il. 1 do not preiend to decide "1
, what would be the bed method of procuring the tl
o * (tablifhttient of the manifold goo.i things ip tbi's tt
0 Conltitutuin; -and of getting Vid of the bad. Whe- qt
7 ther by adopting it in hopes of future amendment, ci
or, after it has hew duly weighed and canvafled by pi
the people, after feeing the paits they generally so
and thjfi rhey generally approve, ro fay to at
4 them. " we fee now what you wish r feud together k
4 your deputies again ; let them frame a conjlttutiun fa' it,
3 you, omitting what.you have cmdenmed, and ejlallifh hi
? ,n S ft powers you apfre-Oe." Even-thtfe will be a
-2 great addition to the energy of your governnirnt. fee
1 At all events, I h</pe you will not bfc difcoursged ke
: Irom o(hcr trials, if tlie present one (hould fail of ht
* i s full effects. The late rebellion in MafTacliiifetU. " a
has givep more alkrtn than 1 thiirk it' ihould have
done. Calculate, that one rebellion in thirteen dates,
I 111 the course of e!ivtn years, is bat one for each '- a
5 fati in a cert fury and a half; nor tfill any degree of bil
ower in i)>e lia»Ja of governmerit, prevent iiifur- ha
; ™9i«n«. France, with all its despotism, and two wl
or three hundred thousand men in aims, has had fid
\ thrce infurreaions in the three years 1 have been tta
I he t e > ln "t'7 °"c of v. hich', greater ltumbm were 'm,
engaged than in Maflachiifetts, and a great de«l *h:
; more blood fpift. Compare again rht: ferocious de- a r
, predations of thrir infurgeKts, with the order, the Pr'
> moderation, and the almoit felf extiDguiflimcnt of P es
; uart -" another letter, of 6lh of July, 1788,
i hc fcy«. " Lam glad to hear the new conltitution dtp
ip received with favour: 1 fincercly wifli, that the fla
nine firft conventionun y receNe, and the four hfi " '
rejea it. The former will secure it finally ? while pea
the latter will oblige them to offei a decleralion of nat
. rights, in order to complete the union." Jn arather of son
the 31ft feme month, he fays, "The abandoftiug the
the principle of r.toeffary rotation in the senate. has, dilc
I fee, been aifapproved by many—in the cafe of the r><
Preftdent, by none. 1 readily, therefore, suppose the
my opinion wrong, when opposed by the majority ; Tvh
?V'' 'he former mflance,. and the totality as in oh,
oL at, u r r In a ktter of the 18th No'vember, po F
1 7 J■?' u S ' "AS t0 tlle b!U of n 'tf b,s ' of
I Aril think it fltould be atlded ; and lam glad to 1
lee, that three dates have at length considered the Vir.
perpeuial re-ehgibtlity of the President, as an arti- pie:
cle wh.ch ffioufi be amended. I ftould deprecate ptin
with you, indeed, the meeting of anew convention.» Jef,
How far these extracts may have been altered or 'con/,
mutilated, K liable to quedion and doubt, from the awt
manner of their appearance. It is observable, t4at wifl
thc extract qf t lie letter of the 6th July, lhou h colli
was intended as part of the one which is mentioned con,
in the debates ot Ihe Virgitna convention, does not ced (
anlvver- to the defenption g,\en «f i, by Mr. Pen- ame
diet on, piofelfes to have fe-en it f or . hj ex- '■ n
preWy Hates, with regard to that letter,, that M, » o
Jeffcr.on, after hav.ng declared hi, wish, icfpcfting « It
the issue of the delibcrationsoipon the constitution, '• f,
, Proceeds to enumerate the amendments which he " «
ef.curt ,c cxttad which was published, "It
m P ,f. OI J as the essential amend. •' f,
ment to be obtained by the rcjefUn of four .lates, " i
by no mcstu, agrte. with the account ,i,e n »
of if by Mi. Pendleton. n
Such ntverthelefj as they are, .htfe extracts f u J- «r!
i * l,a ; Mr ; advised the people of V
\ .rgima to adopt tue cotijli'.ution or not to adopt it «' it
upon a contingency; and that lie was opposed to it' «
J tU "' ojl ""p"'""" falurcs, lo much. f u , .. oi
1 »at «rft, if, dtJCoufilename it s adoption altogether '« tl
without previous amendments, u/greatfy d£j
the abandonment of the ptinciple of nefejary rcta- " *\
Tp TP, oJ t' "I nof ' in the- cafe » (i
Of President , he wifl.ed the principle of rotation <<
to extend not only the executive, hut ? c Z "
tali" T- tl ; C >'° V ' rr ' ment ' 'he senate a- »
iralt, as is explained in a iubfequenr letter, 'j'hia <• „
objedtongoes ,0 the very figure of tb , gove/n! « I
Z 1 V t r - y ' m l nrtant article, and while it iut '•
tifces the afferuon that he was opposed ,0 the "
'° n ' " lfu " :e ; ,f 1,8 ™>si important features it »Kr
:: *
tr f
Which are incompatible with the Irincibles r7ft tl
government, and disposed to mdtrdv t'l- / "° r '
wb jit"l**: ::
| The extiadefrom Mr. Jefferf«„' s le, (er f t Da „i a l *1
as they arc, prove then that he, at firll
: nanted the adoption of the conflitntion '' ■ " °^' ni
live form. Xny
ner, and with the force n- .«• ... s rna »- H
to pronounce that he wiP-ed" 1 !' ' lrfiUle l!mei
currence to a fetand convention VhZT'VI *">
he takes, while , f" J
to remove the alarm n.tutallf inured hi','" 0 "' *
furreSion in Maffachufett,, which had recently
c -red, a flrong confitmatioo of thj o p io L
%
S It 19 Rot eafyto ondcifliud wlist other ol hi»
• comments on that circumlfince crfuld have, l/at to
. obviate the anxiety which it was calculated to iiifpirc
in the people for an adoption of the eonffiiution, i
the without a previous attempt to amend it, and to re-
Jt-j move all apprehension of internal convul/tint from
the dangerous expesiine&l of a second c««iveution.
hat It is not poflible to avoid remaiking, \>y the way,
th& that t'hefe comments of Mr. Jcffeifon oiuhe rebrl
>nd !>•') afford a cmious and char aft crif/it faaipie of la ,j
aur S ,c ar, d calculation. " One rebellion in thirteln
Hates, in the course of eleven ycais, is but one for i
on/ eat; h ftiSe in a century and a half," while France it <
om seems had had three infurredfions in three years,
its In the latter inltance, t\u: fubdivifioiis of the en- t
•lid tire nation ait confounded in one mass, in the for- c
m. roerj the fuiaivmons are the ground of calculation, j:
and inns a inferable sophism. is gra»-ly made a bafij
ter political tonfuiation and donduft ; for, according t
t«B to 'he "data flared, it was as tiue that the United g
Uy Statis had lwrd owe -rebellion iit eleven years, eiidan
:o, gering their common fafety and welfare/ as that vi
■ft, France had had three infufie£tio»s in three years. p
fe llrus it appears from the Very doc.uteauts pro- tl
tie duced in exculpation of Mr. JfefFeiTon, that he in
of fadt difcountenaiiGcd, in the firit instance, the adop
of tiom of the ctii.Siiution, favoiing the idea of an at
:al tempt at previous amendments by a second conven
i», tion, which was precisely the line of, policy follow
'a- ed by ill those who were at that time denominated
de anl'tjedtral, aitd who have generally hnce retained
| t e their original enmity against the constitution. As j'
us to>thofc letters of Mr. JefFerfon, which are /utfc
e- quent to his knowledge of the ratification of the U
it, confiitution by the requisite number of Jfatet, they 4
>y prove nothing', but that he was willing to pldy the , j
|y politician. They can at best ®nly be received as j
to afl.B ot fulmijjion to the opinion of the majority,
•r which he profelTes" to believe infallible, resigning to d
r it, with aH pofiible humility, not only his conduct,
but his judgment.
a. it will be remarked that there appears to have
t. keen :s:> want of verfatUity in Lie opinions; they ,•
(i kept pace tolerably well with the progress of the
)f buliijcfd, and were quite as accommodating as circum- j
i. fiances leemed icquirt.* On the 31ft July SB, C '
■e when the udopiion of the constitution was knttun,
s, the various and weighty objections of Maich 1787,
h a d rdolved themselves into rbe fmple want of a
,f bill cf rights, and even that defedl alarming as it
bad been, might be supplied at a future period, t
0 vvhcji it fh6jld be sou id ncceflai v. November
1 tollowing, 011 the strength of the authority of three
" |^ re s (overruling, in that instance, the maxim of ,
e implicit dcfeieftce for the opinion of the .Jhajoiity)
1 tnat lately folitarv defect acquires a companion, in
. a revival of the objection to the re-elegibility of the
; Present. And another convention, which had ap- 1 .•
speared 110 very alarming expedient, -while the entire 'r.
, constitution was in jeapardy, became an o§|f<a to be 1
1 deprecated, when partial amendments to an already 1!
: efiailijUd conjlitution were alone in question.
} TroiTi tht of fentimcnt, which ap- r l#
: pear ,n the Cxtrafls that lir.ve been published, it is rr '
F natural to infer tlwt had the whole of Mr. Jeffer- r •
F son's co.refpondence on the fubjeft been given to J'
the pub.ie, much greater o'ivcrfitie. would have been { '
• « But in'order to determine with accu- ,
racy whether or not Mr. J-ffc.fc, was a f.iead to ,T
the conlhtutmn, we (hotlld- refer to hi? opinions, , x
-while the refuli was doubtful, and not to his opini- ..j;
ou, When after its adoption, hk flat ion and love of ,
popularity made it expedient to in the will £L
of the majjnty. ■ tlre >
It appear, fro«r the debates in thfc conventioa of
Vug,ma, that Patrick Heftry, at that time the ch -m
pioaof rhcantifdera! patty in Virginia, ami the on tl
pr.ncpa] opponent ot theco, (litution, quoted Mr. "Ji
JeJjcrJons npimsn, as an authority for reteflin-r the 1. •
constitution. Mr. Pendleton 7JaZ T
aivay Mr. J.flerfon's opinion s he (fated it to be " a
win, 1 l,ut tl,zjirjlnmc inventions might accept the T'"
because it would fccure the K
containsd, and that the four LJ might refJe xa ac- r
cede till they Compelled the others to" accept esttain
amendment*." Mr. Henry replied, " the gentle-
M m *l n . h:,s . c,M * c »*«ureJ to eteplain Mr. Jefferfon's
opin on, into an advice to adopt. He wifhen
I Jates to adopt, and that "tIZ
fomewhete to reject it. Now, ifJZZII
( to prefc, fo,m to sub £
.. / w forgive me leave to afl { , what is the '
fubjlantial pari of his counfcl ?ft is rl, af f
""7 ft "l U ' d rt *' S ' thfy ,cU ,ha ''' from ''he tD'
(l accounts, New Hampshire will g '
.. !U T V whn V hen will follr be found to S""
1 fjiit f rf tvs adopt it ? 19 U R
What fays Mr. MaJifon in reply to this-" //
" ?fi < h "> "»* -- It ffollov our Pr ° V '
own reason } is u proper to adduce tK, " ner * •
o! rcf P men,, not within these wfl'lsMf
the , op,", 01) u s a[l i mportant chlraa were ' to mad 4
on tl., s occasion, could we not adduce a """I,
.. f'^f er Kteat fid, > are w - U " ho a 7 ch
'V he R opinion) are not to fe gaici
« 1 J'' '■ "' S VV , l " ki ' "° W to f ui ™ to thf o pi ,•
«"f fU " : " n be y"" ! the "''antic ? I believe t°" °
that were gentleman now „ n this fl uo , he T"
" ' rorthc /^ :io " of tin's conftiiui&'n ; °"
I «.(h h, f ~,ne had never bee,, memic!U j j " '
every ttuhg fpoksn here relative to his man>
S y d bC/ F r^V lF ° Ur dfbalCS 5e S Magi
(< . 1 3111 nie measure acquainted with ° U ' "
his icntijTtenta on this fuhjett •it i t t ■ 1 r
;; unfold what he has informed Ifi
«- 4^».
"or denies the ju.Ws of Vhaf of Mr" <
l'J-icitude appears te be to defltoy tfee' i,!P ' f '
what he impliedly admits , a !It !"J uen " of prove
.. ,i 3 trr ' f r! r - L'*' 11
opinion, and to get ri* cf thc fuSirfl. f 1 41
fible. bjec. as faff as po f. hope
He confefles a knowledge of Mr Teff, r r„ > r °/,f Tt
™«« .» » n, rl Uri,„. „t„{ T,
58 (,n *■*.£rz ass tt
•thrfc
J his ever is seen J,ojsllify the lanciufwi), that if Mt. ? e f.-
*t-t« ferlon's advice had ptc vailed* Vugiuia, Norih-Ca.
fpirc rolina, New-York and Riiode-lflanri, would have
tion, ' hen thi own iherttfelves out tf the union. And whe
j re- ther, in event, they would have been at this
from day reunited• to iu or wlwther there would be now/
ion. any union at all, i™iappily a speculation which need
*ray, only be 'purfu d, to derive from it ther pleafjng re.
sbel- Scdiions, that the dang-r was wifely avoided, by unt
flo pursuing Mr. Jtfferfon i advice.
rteln We may now far'ely pronounce that, while the
r for conflitution was depen/iing before lhe people of tins
ce it ccrtiiitiy, for their coulideration and decilion, Mr,
:ars. Jefferfuii was opposed to it in fame of its mcjl impor
en- taut futures, that he wrote his objeiftknis te iome
for- of his friends (leading and men.) in Vir-
Hon, gin fa, and at Jirft, went so fur us .Wdfjutilenunct i/f
>aii.i tho' he cfteriJirds, finding it received irt
ing the United States with favor, recommended it on the
ited ground at exp diency, hi tenaii. iOi.ti'igeucies.
ian- It may be added that '(oirie of his ul ji ">ion#»
hat which? went to the very jlruliurf *f tlie 't.n.ipit
i. parts of toe government, huvc nut been removed b f
ro the p, opofed amendments.
in ' " riiociON.
op
sft. 10'h tHE GAZETTE Of TliZ UNITED STATES.
Mr. FerUO,
j j AS Mr. Adams and Mr. Jcff'ifJn are he'd
as t lie candidates for the fVtjld.uey of the Unite J
States, and as the advocates of the u let are taking
, thij tnoft adtive meafuies to ensure luccefs, hy cir
filiating hand hills, containing libels on Mr. Adams,
and by all the other devices which the ingenuity
the raa '"-' e °f 'he democratic locieties can invent,
the si.ends o£ that citisoeu and of good order, are
seriously called upon to cae-t themfelvrs, and have
io expert f rom ev<sry caTidid and impartial
printer a circulation tu their lfricluies on the opi
" ' moils of Mi. Jefferfon, that the people may be welt
acquainted with the charadcrs of both candidates
before the ele&ion takes place fur filling a flation
he ,m i )ortnllt > on t ' lc properly filling of which t
the future happhicrfs and peace of America so cf.
g feiittally depend.
1 1 herewith transit* with that view, the opi
nions of Mr. Jefferfon on the fubjeQ of American
" d manuf<t3urei. a friink to man UFACTBRk#,
£ EXTRACT
' Front Mr. JktiKKioN's Notes on Virginia,
PACE 174.
re T
3 1 "The political economics of Europe, have ef» '
) tablifhed it as a principle, that every state fbouhf
" maoufafture for itfclf: ar.d this principle, like ma.
Ny otheis, we tiansfer to America, calcu*
' lating the difference of* cireutnftanccs which fhotilcJ
" e often produce a different reluct. fn Europe, ths
' r e lands are either cultivated, of locked up against ftc v
y cnltivntor... Manufacture mtift, therefoie, be
ed to, of necoffity, not of choice, to' fuppoft th<f
' surplus of their people. But wchave an immer.frty'
of Land,, courting the industry of the htiftrtndtnanj
Is it bell, then r that all our citizens should be etn
ployed in its iinprovetnent, or, thii 5 one half (hortld
be called off froirr chat, to exercise nijnutadiKr'ea!
and handicrafts "for the other I Those taho labour iHT~ ■
3 the earth are the ehtjtn people of God, if etei he had
• a chofcn whole Lieafta-he has made his pe»
culiar deposit for fubftaniial and genuine virtue.—
It is the focus, in which he keeps alive that facrei
' fire, which otherwise tfcape from the face of
the earth. Corruption of morals 111 the mafcof cuU
' tivators, is a* pltcnomeuon of which no age nor na
tion has furniftied an example. It is the mark set
on those who, not lookiirg up lo heaven, to their
own foil a"iid indnltry, at does the hllft a nil (Trail, for
theii fubfi.lrnce, difpenrl foi it on the cafualtics and '
' caprice of ctfioners. • Depcr.duncs begets lubitivi.
1 ence antl venality ; fufTocaies the germ of virtue,and
prepaies fit tools for the designs of ambition. This,
the natural progress and consequence of the arts, ha*
lom«imcs, peihaps, been rctaiuetl by accidental
ctrcumrtances : but generally fpcaking, theprctior*
tion -which toe aggregate of the other clajfes of the ci*
tizens bears, in any Itate, tn~that of its hulbatid
tlien, is the proportion of its unsound to it 3 healthy
parts, and is a good enough barometer, whereby t»
mcafure its degree of corruption. While we have"
land to labour, then, let us kr.rf * wish to fes our
Cjtizehs occupied at a v.Ork-b; NCH, or twirling
a distaff. Catpenters, rnafym, finirtis, arc want
ing in husbandry ; but, for the general operation of
manufaßme, let our work-shots- kemath im-
Europe. It is better to cairy jiroviliont and ma
. te.ials to Kotkmen than bring them to the
provifiar.s and materials, mid,' ivith them, their mart'
ners and principles. • The loft, by the transpor
tation of commodities acrofc the Atlantic, will be
made up in hafipiaefs and permanence ot govern
ment. Th% mobs of great .cities, add just £or
much to the support of pure government, as sore*
do to the strength of the human body."
The above, Mr. Fenno, is a complete cohdemna*-
tion of commerce, manufaSures- and all the arts', the
fourtes of employment and tveallh to many thoufands>
of our fellqw citizens, wh<; are here likened to thr
seres' of,-rile humau body. Will not the ratfmg ® >
man, who entertains sueU apimons, to the Chief
M.>gi(lracy of the Union, be a death blow to alJi
our infant mannfuSures ?
NEW-YORK, October i 5.
T he removal of the elegant fiatues and painlingt
fioin Italy to Paris, inilead of .honouiiug Franc*
and enkindling emulation, will have the contrary ef»
fe£ts. Lrd Kaims temark-s, that Newton's im»
provemcms in mathematiclss, had a great effed in V
rendering ihut science stationary for a time in Great
Britain, by destroying competition—for who could
hope to exceed him ? The maHeily monuments
of arts, removed te Paris, will have the fame effcs.
All will lauguitli undei the blaze of Italian giory*
1 he Argu: this morning lets otu a hint of an ia
uruetion in Canada, and an expectation of further
news. The arrangement then ieemt to be wellun
a-ijieodhf our patriots. A line of agency between- g
N w- 1 onk and Canada is doubtleU'cftablifhed by
roitiv of the iulutrcftion.Philadelphia,
Friday evening, october it, 1796.
Died on Friday tVie 2ift irtft. in the fifty third
year of his age, Joseph Henfzey, late Steward of
the Pennsylvania Hospital, an office which he filled
for sixteen ycaas with honor to himfelf, and reputa
tion 10 the uiftitution.
His remains were on the following day interred
in the Friends' burial ground, attended by a confi.
derable number of inhabitants, lamenting the loss
of so *aldoble and humane a citizen ; long will t.e
temem 1 . ered by the hclplefs widow, the «r-worn
(oldisr, atxithe f-a beaten mariner, for hi™private
indefatigable endeavors tu alleviate ,
\heir "diftrcflt#, while laboring under the heart
pending power ol disease, in the alylum in which
lie FClided. That he will receive the sentence, " well
done thou good and faithful" Steward, " enter thou
i-to the joy of thy Lord," is the iirm belief of a ,
lr.ee,c ' FRIEND.
Melancholy Accident- ,
Died, on Tuesday the 13th ulr. Mr. Archibald .
Campbel), dare-keeper, of Maurice River, New-
Jersey. On the Friday evening following, his wi
ow and orphan children were alarmed by a fire
breaking out in the upperpart of the house ; they
buried out, but soon found ;that Mrs. Campbell's (
eldest Ton, aibout 10 years old, and a black child, ,
were left in the chamber ; upon which a black wo
pian ran up to rescue them, but unfoitunately pe- (
rifhed with the children* in the devouring flames. ,
The neighbours assembled but found it impjflible ,
to flop the fire, or to save the poor black woman, ,
who was discovered during the fire, with one of f
the children in her aims laying across the floor j
beams. All the furniture, and about 600 dollars <
incafh, were totally 108. t
,at Lilbon, Samuel Harrifon, Vice Consul ,
of the United States. He wr.s much refpe£ted by [
the Americans, and is gteaity lamented. a
7" f
George Salmon, Esq. i 3 chosen President, sfnd
Mr. James Cox, Cashier of the Bank of Baltimore, j
Extract of a letter from Montgomery, dated O&ober
*795. . , . , (
" I am furfeited to fee the fpolifh, lying, elec
tioneering %'t, that « daily circulating. A gentle
man called here yesterday with his fadftle-bags ftuffed
with papers on the Jefferfon fide—He said he fliould
ride 600 miles to difleminate them. He put me in
tnind of Sampson's Foxes, with fire-braads at their
tails, let loose among the corn-fields of the Philifti»es>."
ANOTHER COMMUNICATION. \
IT is one of the hardest things in nature, to a
candid mind, to be compell'd to read lies indead of 0
p truths. 1 read the Aurora, in order to fill my mind n
with the general affairs of Europe, and particularly 0
with the geographical accounts of Germany and v
Italy, and the probable issue of contending armies: „
For foms how or other, Ido think that paper de n
rives fmgolar communications fiom ingenious/ reign tl
jid : But, in t'his reading, I ara always rebtift'd
with the raoft foolilh and obvious falfhoodt, that
, ever (lamed any public print. Bache >;ive3 us a com- c |
munication this morning, designedly to rouse the (hip
wrights and other vetert of the uorthern and sou
, thern liberties, by attributing the stoppage to (hip
building, and non-employment of the citizens, to
the treaty with England. Who the writer of that e ,
paragraph is, I do not know—certainly he is )jo;h
knave and fool. L,et him go along the wharves, t j
and observe the unemployed, and hitherto utibeheld g]
number as shipping—and then ask—does the treaty rj
detain them here, and in equal proportion in the Uni
ted States ? No—thou liar, no—lt is solely omj»£
to the great European harvefU, and
ted prices, whieh forbid all/trade with *¥
England, Spain, Portugal, Italy and Germany, I
from America, and to our high and excessive prices,
and to no other cause whatever. The treaty then j\\
has nothing to do with it Make your farmers re- jo
duce their prices, and our fhip-earpentets and all I
our citizens, will as usual, be fully employed, and la
all men thank God that we had a Washington to b
make the treaty , 1 and pray we 'may have an Adams I;
to support good faith with all nations, & never, no /
neAer, a Jcfferfon, nor any hell-kicking treaty tnem- In
ber, to domineer over a free people. e
FACT. tl
OAober 28th, 1796,
■—n ( n
By the DIANA, Potts, in 29 days from London. J c
LONDON. Sept. 17.
General Moreau has gained another vi&ory gal
Alter pafiing the Lech, and defeating the Auflrian |b ;
general Latour, Moreau's army advanced at Dafeflu, I ni
Plaffenhaffen, and Bombai; and the Auftnans ic- I
treated behind the lfer ; having received reinforae- J rf
ments from the archduke, they made an attack r"
upon the left wing of Moreau's army on the id #w
jnft. but after an obltinate engagement, which lad
ed for the whole day, the Auftnans were complete- cc
ly defeated, and forced to retreat with file loss of pi
1,800 men_killed, wounded and prisoners. |co
To this is to be added a second French victory
gained in Italy, the news of which arrived Jaft
fight by express. On the morning of the 4th
general M attacked a division of the energy,
( confiding of fifteen battalions, whom he defeated
and drove as far as the castle of La Pietra. He
trade X.200 prisoners, and a great number Were
killed or wounded. On the evening of the fame fel
day, the French forced the castle of La Pietra, F
renewed their attack on the enemy ; after an t h
ohftinate adion, took FIVE THOUSAND pri. ful
fonera, fifteen pieces of cannon, and seven dand
ards. The French advanced to the very eates of J a
Trent. ftr
— co
ARMY OF ITALY. Ed
GARRAU, comtr.iffioner of government, td the j",
executive cirrflwy. th|
19 Fruftidar, Sept. 5.
I haftcn to inform ypu that tite division of ge.
reral Maffena attacked and completely defeated
of theenemy's battalions and a large corps of ca- da
vitlry, which had takes a line of defence 'at Santo pa
" Marco, and which has been fucceflively defeated
and routed at Lazano, Santo Marco, Roveredo, Si
finally driven them to the castle of La Pietra. The
division of gen. Lebois, which by a concertde match
left Sioro, to attack the enemy on the right baok of
the Adige, at its mouth, opposite Paraviela, at the
fd moment when the division of Maffena began it
tack. The enemy made a mod sbflinate refitlance.
e( l But forced o» all fides by the valour of our soldiers,
ta ' victory tefided finally.with us. We killed a great
number of the enemy, and made 1,20P prisoners.
Among the killed there is an Auflrian general. 1
We had few wonnded, but In this number we havf
•ft to regret the brave general Dubois and his aid-de- 1
camp. #
rn The column of general Angereau, which left |
tc Ver«r.a to much towards our rifjht, tokeep a corps
tc of the enemy in check, at Ba'Fano, aiid to cover <
lrt the right of Miffena's division, has not yet given j !
an account of its success.
The general in chief dill engages the enemy,
5U who fly in all halle to T'er.t, from which we are
a only a few miles didant. The inhabitants of Ty- ]
rol fee us approach with plcafure. Our republi- 1
cans behave as defenders of liberty ought to do, ,
and refpeft the property of the people. We have (
at this time taken four pieces of cannon, and the
' l * work of the day is not yet finidled. ]
re The courier is not yet gone, and I take up the
'J pen to impait to you successes obtained thfc fame
s day, the 1 ith Fruftidor, which is equal to that of
the 18th Thermidor. t >
she castle of La Pietra, and the batteries which *
c " defended the road, were forced by two columns, one r
:s- of which climbed up deep roads an«l the other at r
,e the fame time palled the Adige, with the water up r
"• to their middle. The pafition being forced, the in- t
fantry ptirfued the enemy. Our cavalry, after hav- t
3r ing routed the enemy, pierced in a column the line e
rs of their infantry, which was effectuating their re- v
treat all speed. In this charge, prodigies of t
ul valot were performed. The result of this memora t
'X ble day is, 5000 prisoners, t6 pieces of cannon, 0
and 7 dandards. Our advanced guards are at the a
gates of Trente. j
It is now rr idnight. At 3 o'clock jn the marn
!" ing, the general iw chief marches anew to attack p
Er the enemy. 0
1 (hall futely have to give you an account of new
j. successes. (Signed) GARRAU. „
ARMY OF the RHINE AND MOSELLE. Ir
■d The general in chief to the executive directory.
d Head quarters, Pafl'enhofen,
19th Fru&i'iur, Sept. $. a<
On the 17th of this mynth, general St. C.yr at- ( -l
tacked Flefling. He had orders to pufli the enemy
vigorously, to prevent thcin cutting dewn the bridge - v;
ol the lfer. This attack was perfedkly fuccelsful. at
* The enemy defended the bridge with a regiment
of infantry, four fquadronsof cavahy and fom »can
non. The 31ft half brigade of the 9th regiment
y of hussars, and the 2d of cavalry, attacked them
with, such vigour, that the enemy were only able to
: remove some planks of the bridge, which were irr.
mediately replaced. The right flank of the army
" took a position yedtrday at Greffenfield. r(
J To givs you an account of an attack so
1 is to make an eulogium of the troops, and the Q f
* chiefs who conduced them. j.,
(Signed) MOREAU. /'
PARIS, September 14.
J Rickery's division, whitih failed from Cadiz, has
1 enteied Carthagena. rc
1 The date of Jourdan's health obliges him to re- ,' K
> tirel He can no fcnger mount on horfcback. Pi
1 cbegrue is spoken of as his fucceflor. Others men- "
y ?ion Scherer, Biurnonville and Kleber.
t AT PHTLTPSRTTRft. ( il:
- j J '
> I Landau, 20th Fruftidor, Sept. 6.
I I General Schers has informed me of an advantage P*
n jwhich he obtained two days ago, over the trarrifon t0
- jof Philipfourg. F
II 9 He was informed by his fpiys, that he would be
d lattarked on the 19th, in his position at Breu(hal,
o by theganifon of Philipfburg, reinforced by a de- cc
ts Jachment from that of Manheim; and 4000 of the 10
o Neighbouring peafanta. Though Tery inferior in
i- numbets, the general determined to anticipate the 1,1
enemy, and attacked them himfelf on the 18th in
the morning. *" W
The attack was executed in three columns, com- 9
irr.anded by adjutant-general Ruel, and the two
chiefs of brigade, Bontrone and Ferty, with much m
fitih, lecx-cy and courage. Ihe French wearied of
firing their muftetsand eanponadiHg, had recourse P*
at lad t« tneir usual method of charging with the
bayonet. The garrjfon was pursued under the can
non of PhiKpfburg. \\
The detachment" of the garrison of Manheim
regained their lodgings by flying at full gallop j en
>nd the peasants, cut in pieces, covered the roads mi
with their dead and wounded.
We are assured that the column of peasants was 6
. commanded and conduced by three Capuchins ;
f lb lit our dragoons used this holy corps very il|, and
JcompUtely spoilt their proceflion.
L (Signed) MARESCOT. D
D 1
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
BOSTONToaober 41. Sl<
The Pa "f r Mif,en to Pari/.
[The article mentioning that an agent was to be
PinS ' t0 attcnl l' t a was P ai
published in a London p.per of September 9 ; the fol
lowing is from the Sun of September 14' We are wa
thus particular, beeaufe the firft news has become the
iubjecl of much convcrfation :]
"As to the departure of Mr. Grenyilla or Mr. Br
Jackson, on a pacificatory mission to Paris, we ate S h
strongly i.ct.ned to Relieve that if the measure was in
contemplation by miniflry it has since been abandon- „
ed. Let the public be on their guard as to any frcfo
rumours that may be circulated on tftis paint—the Slt
stockjobbers are at work-they want a pafTport into
the pockets of the credulous." ] a ft
rp, NEW YORK, 27.. ye |
. *' mcrva > ca P'. Rathburn, arrived yefi'er- us
day in 31 days from Brest, we learn, bro't a Pari ( ,he
paper «f Sept. 18, but having fallen in with a bo;
\
ted French privateer (wliich it is fai'J is now off the
,3c Hook) and being tieated politely by the captain,
he handed it to him. We cannot learn whether it
rch contained any important article or not.
of It is said, that letters are ia town of late date
the from Halifax, informing that 7of the (Quebec fleet
it- had been Captured by the French squad on, 6 of
cc. of which were destroyed, and the 7th was manned 1
•rs, for port, being estimated at upwards of /".too,ooo I
cat sterling. (Argus.) I
rs. 1« thisftatethe Leoiflatnre appoint the Ete6t- I
al. ois, who are to meet in the city of Hu-lfon. !
iv? The Halifax paper of the 181b, makes no men. r
le- ti»n of the French fleet. ]
The ciptni.) of the packet informs, that the j -
eft principal- part of admiral Murray's fquarfron was at
■ps "HaNfax. Some of the French fleet were cruising
rer oft there, and the remainder were supposed to have
en ; failed for B»fto:i, to lay in provifiont for a Weft
India campaign.
y> W A R ! England & Spain.
ire We were last evening kindly favoied with a Ha- 0
y* lifax pape;r of the 18th instant, brought by the e
" 1 Britiih packet the Puncefs of Wafei, arrived yef
in ."even days from Hallifax, containing the n
ve following tl
PROCLAMATION. ,t<
By his excellency fir John Wentworth, baronet, e:
' >e L. L. D. lieutenant-governor and commander
ne in chief in and over his majesty's province of No
va-Scotia|ind its dependencies. ,
J. H'entworth. al
Whereas information has been cammunieated to a <
me, by his grace the duke of Portland, one of his
21 twjefty's principal secretaries of state, that the -
! P moll indubitable pr»ofsof the. hostile intentions of
0- the court ps Spain against Great Britain, have de
** terniinad his to order his naval forces in p
1,6 every quarter of the world, not lo Regledfc any fa
e" vorable opportunity that may offer as attacking
the fleets of Spajn, either singly or united with
a t'icifc of France and Holland, or of striking any
other-blow at the pofleffions of that crown ; and
le also fignifying to me his majesty's commands, that
I fliould in the nreft public manner possible, give
such information to his maiefty's fubje&s in this
* province, Ksmay bed enable them to prevent on the
one hand any mifchief which otherivife thty might
R ' fisfler from the Spaniards, and on the other hand,
to do their utmoit to distress and annoy them, by
making captures of their (hips and by destroying
their commerce.
i have therefore thought fit, by and with the
advice ef his msjefty's council, to-publifh this pro
■" clamation, hereby calling on, and requiring all his
y majesty's iiege fybje&s, within Ins province of No i
e va Scotia and its dependencies, to take due notice,
and goverp tliernfelves accordingly.
1 Given under ray hf.nd and seal at aims at Hali
fax, this 17th d~y of October, 1796, in the
361b yea* of his majesty's reign.
n By his excellency's command,
0 1. M. FRH.KE BULICELEY. da
GOD SAVE THE KING,
' Yesterday (ailed from this port> the f»ft failing 'h
eopper-hottomed ftiip Royal Edward, J. Boolender, as
comftian.icfj for Jamaica. This fliip has a'leiter lc
e of marqtie, and is the firft that failed from thishar (,y
bor with a cotnmiflkm against the French, Spa- lei
tiiards, andiall other his majesty's enemies. "i
From the Timss, September 3.
s Mr. HAMMOND's mission lias, as we have al-1 1
ready faggefted, failed in toto jthe king of Prus
sia having not only rejefied the proposal made to In
him by our court, which went to guarantee to him
ceitain very important territories and a free port,
but his majesty also received Mr. Hammond in the B
Lraoft, ungracious manner. It is now evident, that
j the king of Pwffia is determined to take every pof=-
+ fible advantage of the emperor's diftrefled situation, mi
and to abet the French diredtory in ill their de
signs. Hts majesty is so intoxicated with the pros
e pedt of new acquisitions to himfelf,, that he seems
B to have forgotten the nature and progress of the
FVench revolution. , tn
e Mr. Hammond, after fending Brooks, the mef- gc
| f en ger» to Vienna, with the result of his conferen- sal
ces at the court of Prufiia, is himfelf on his return '
e to JLoßdon, and may be daily expected. We un
n derftand. ' iat the emperor is determined to defend
e his territoi iestothe lash
a It was, as we have before obfetved, the result of
Mr. Hamraond's difpatehes which detetmined the
. Cabinet to call Parliament together on the 27th l ot
B inft. Ne'.or was th« advice of the legifjative body 1
i, *ore needed than at the present momentous crisis.
f His BJiijeftv's ministers have dofte every thing de
f pending u» them to facilitate peace ;we o fli
e have now 'only so look t® the preservation of vur ]
. foreign poiFtflions, and to our ownTecurity at home. wa
We are no. alai<mifts refpedting the fate of either. 1
, Let our enemies be as inveterate as they please in
. endeavouri <g to deprive 119 of our valuable enjoy.
. ments, we tear them not i
G4ZETTS IF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST.
' " ' till
1 PHILADELPHIA, October 28.
ARRIVED. Days
Brig Grace, Potts, London 27
Clariffn, Decatur, Cape Francois 32
Jamep, I'rai.klin, Kin?Hon so fu'
Sloop Patiet.ce, Willis, New-York 5 '«
Nancy, Hindley, Bolton 15 ~
In the bsncy, Riggs, from Kellibegs came 76
paffengeis.
Brig Sea Nyfflph, M'Dougall.'of Philadelphia,
was at Liverpool September 22. \ th( ,
New-York, Odtober ji. 1
Arrivals at this port. Days the
British Packet Priucefs of Wales, Falmouth 31 hot
Ssip Union, 1 eefa, Amsterdam 36 '1°!
Minerva, Rathben, Brest 31
Schr. Peripbas, Dunn, Philadelphia 6 e x;
Sloop Mary, Lumbado, do. 6
A Swediih fbip, diTmafted, arrived in this port ani
lilt evening, in i2©days.from Spain. Ge
t-apt. ot the ship Minerva, arrived Uc
yeftcrday. as: ctnosc, in 31 days from Brest, informs
us that on tbe 22d of September (two days before thi
he failed) he saw a letter from a gentleman in Bil
boa, itatod that two Eughfli frigates and a
, T - t
the cutter, had put in there to get some fiipolie*, Zjid
ill), that the jjovernmerit had immediately SEIZED
i it them as ENEMY'S PROPERTY.
Arrivals at Marblebead.
ite Oft. 9, schooner Philaiitrophi:!, Prince, 50 dny*
ret from Lilbou. Sept. 6, lat. 41, long. 43, capt.
of Prince was boarded by the French (hip Vengeance,
ed of 50 guns—the cemmander of which informed,
00 that ire had lately an Englifti (hip, which
he parted with in the smoke—The Vengeance had
four men killed, ind several wounded. Sept. 14,
lat. 43, 48, long. 37, 42, spoke fhif> Mary, Dar
n. niel Miy, out 30 days from London, bound to
Baltimore, with 217 paffengerson board, very sickly
be —had buried several.
at ;
tj r [Omitted since Tueld ay for want of room.]
TORTHE GAZETTE OF THE UNTI TED STATtS.
AMPHITHEATRE.
WE were happy to fee so full anS crowded a house
j. on Ssturdey evening last, thn not mare so than the
]e exertions of Mr. Kirketts deserved. His adiioa» atti—
j. tudes, and elegance in riding, were fnperior to any I
have ever seen even in Europ-. Notwithstanding the
,f many dangerous positions he exhibited, which required
the utmost circt«n.fpe<slion, yet his care and attention <
the lady when riding, was not lefa than was to bs
expelled from the politeness of the principal of the
Amphitheatrei Mrs. Spinacuta rode with grace arid
eaie.—ln (hort, the whole of the performances were
livsly and entertaining. The favourite performer
Mr. Sully, give no fm*U degree of plealure to the
audience—he is undoubtedly the firft in his line'of
ailing we know an the iiage. »Y. Z.
Oifober 25th.
THE PANTHEON,
And R/cketts's Amphitheatre,
For Equestrian and Stage performances, Corner of
Chel'nnt and Sixth-streets.
5
h TO-MORROW EVENING, Saturday, OA. 29,
y Will be prtfented,
J A variety of pleasing Entertainments,
1 EQUESTRIAN exercises,
Aijd Stage Ptr.ormances.
c To which will be added,
The Splendid Pantsnsime of
D O N J U A N;
' f Or, The LIBERTINE DESTROYED
r Under the diredlion of Mr. Sully.
Don Juan, Mr. Sully.
Commandant, Mr. Tompkins.
Lover, Mr. Durang.
Filherman, Mr.Coffie.
5 Sailor, Mr. F. Rickatts.
And Scaramouch, Mr. Spinacuta.
, jft Fifherwoman, Mrs. Durang,
id di to. Mifsßabinfon.
And Donna Aana, Mrs. Spipacuta.
An accurate description of the Pantomime to be had *t
the ticket-office.
Days of Performance to be Monday, Wednes
day, Thursday and Saturday.
*„* The Lilies and Gentlemen who secure feats in
the day time, are requefled to attend punctually at 7,
as the performances are so arranged a? to conclude by
10 o'clock—»the doors will open at 6.
Silver Tickets, to admit for the season, to be had
by applying to Mr. Hjckctts at the Pantheon, or at Oel
• lers's Hotel.
g}" Box, 7s. 6d.—Pit, 3s. <)4.
Tickets tube had of Mr. Ford, at the ticket office in
Chcfnut-ftreet, from ten to three o'clock each day.
just Imported^
> In the schooner Lucyj C'apt. Prows, from Maderia*
! and to be f«ld by
ELLISTON ess JOHN- PEROT,
■ Best London particular Madeira Wine,
Three years old,
In pipes, hogsheads, and quarter calks, fit for im
( mediate uie.—They have also for sale,
A few bags of Juniper Berries.
Prober 28. W&S4W
iV 0 Tic E.
■ A Considerable part of the SAIL CLOTH, advertised
to be fald at New-Y erk, the jnft. having bsen dama
. ged at sea, and fold for account of the underwriters. The
, sal e cannot take place as advertised.
| Odtober 28.
Washington Lottery.
The 30th and 31ft days' drawing of the Walhiftgton
Lottery, No. j, are received at the office No. 234, Mar
ket-ftrcet, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
Giftober 20, 1796. d
YVafhington Lottery.
The 30th and 31ft Days Drawing are arrived »t the
office No. 147, Chcfnut ftrect.
Prises in the above Lottery are exchanged for tickets
warranted undrawn.
0(2. 10. tt&s
FOUND,
A small Bar of Iron.
Supposed to have been dropped from a dray. The
owner may receive it by applying to the Publisher of
this Gazette.
October 47. /
Boarding and Lodging
TWO GENTLEMEN may be acconjmoda'ed with
Boarding and Lodging, in a private family and plcafanr
part of the city. Apply to the Printer of the Gazette of
the United States.
Odober 11. tt&stf
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second 9 tree t.
TICKETS in the Candl Lottery, No. 2, for sale a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid ia
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Waflrington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
j tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged tor undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
1 examination.
1 The fubferiber solicits the applicatien of the public
and h:s friends, who wilh to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates , Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
iScc. or to obtain motley on deposit of property.
"»* Also Tickcts in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for)
sale at Ten Delltrs each, which willbe drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
i Philadelphia, Augu/l >8, >796. jnth
©'
Robert Smith & Co.
No. 58, South Frent-Jireet,
*tnve received by the arrivals fr«m London, Liver
pool, and Hull, and by the Ohi® Arrived at N. York No
from Glasgow,
A large & general afifortmentof Goods, m<
Suitable for the Season, ccnjjling of }
Duffle, Point and Rose Checks, in small packages Dit
Blankets Oznaburgs and Brown Hoi- Lai
White, Red, and Yeltow lands c An
Flannel Brown and white Russia Co
Bocklng ancl other Baizes , Sheetings Wj
Second and coarse Cloths Drillings and Diapers 3
Plain and mixed Caflimeres Calicoes and Chintzes Yo
Plain,"twilled, and striped Jaconet and Book Miiflins Ch
Coatings Do. do. Tamboured ,
Plains, ICerfeys, and Half- Do. do Handkerchiefs
thicks Printed linen ~nd check de. Dr
wfe:: & spotted Swanlkins Romal and Madrafs <\o. Di
Laintt and fwanl'down veO Muslin and Chintz bhiwb $jl
{hapes Bed Ticks & 1
Carpets'and Carpeting Table Cloths A
Calimancoce and Durants Laces and Edgings
Moreens a'pd TalSorcens Fashionable Ribbfofcs
ft .ns Spinning and Crapes Do Hats and Bonnets
Cam Wets'and Wildbores Cotten & Wo riled Hosiery
j3ombazeehs & Bombazets Gloves arid Mitts
w ttinets and Shalloons White & coloured Threads
J*?ain, Genoa and printed Italian Sewing Silks iel
Velverets & Thicksets ivory and Horn Combs
7-8, 4-4, and H-8 Cotton Tapes, Bindings, Pins, &c.
They have pn hand a large assortment of India Muslins
and Calicoes, black and coloured Perfi&ns, Bartdanno and
Pullicat Handkerchiefs, &c. and a quantity of Nutmegs
and Mace
Q&ober 17. mwfim Fe
Madeira Wine. tic
30 Pipes of the very best quality, and fit for immediate
use, just imported in the schooner I .ucy from Madeira,
and for faie by
John Craig, Fl
No. 12, Dock-street.
Who has For Sab, _
Tineriffe Wine, is pipes, hoglheads, atid qr. calks.
Window Glass. .
Segars, &c. &c.
Two trunks of the best Cotton and Silk
Hosiery.
oaober 4. Kivftf ™
Imported in the late arrivals, "i!
A-nH to be Sold by ere
JACOB PARKE,
* No. 49, Notth fide of High-street, Philadelpkia, q"
A GENERAL ASSOkIMEIiT Of c 0(
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c.
AMONGST WHICH ARE
SMITHS' Anvils, Vices, and Files; Saw mill, Croft
<ut, Hand, and other Saws; Carpenters' Planes, Chisels,
and other Tools; Carving Chisels and Gouges; Locks,
Hinges, Bolts and Latches; Nails, Sprigs, Tacks, and * 4t ]
Screws-; Frying-Pans; Smoothing-irons; Shovels and
Tongs; Coffee Mills; Cdndldticks* Snuffers; Warming- P el
Pans; Table Knives and Fqrks; Riding Whips; Bar- *"1
low Pen, and other Pocket Knives; Razors; Sciffars ; 1111
Needles; Ivory and Horn Combs; best Kirby Fish
Hooks; brass Cabinet Furniture; Waggon Boxes; Sheet
Rrafs; plated and tin'd Bridle Bits abd Stirrups; ditto V * l
Saddle Nails; Girth and Straining Webbs ,* —with mod vai
kindfe of Ironmongery," Cutlery, Sadlery, Brass Wares,
&c. &c. f ni
October 24. mwf&w in
— hu
For Sale, wl
A Complete' Font of Brevier, t0
ENtirely ne\» , and yet Unopened. The weight of this
font is abeiit 312 lb. It is From the Foundery of
Wilson & Sons,Glafgow,and willbefold at cost St charges. a '
AlfoferSale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes. m
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the United J*
States, 119 Chefnut-ftr<et.
September 27. dtf
as
Plans of the city of Philadelphia, &
Ifcaluding the Northern Liberties and diftridV
SoUthwark, to
Published, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIES, d . a
• No. 68, Hijh street, ' v '
, PI , IP , . (Price one dollar.)
rillS plan is 26 inche iquare, and has been en
graved by one of the fuitjtrtifts in the city, from a late
and accurate survey. frrchafers are entitled to a pam-.
phlet with each pla^.',giving " some accoont of the
city, its population, &c.
July 19 tu&ftf
To be fold,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, comi
ty of Gloucester, and ftateof New-Jersey, contain
ing about one huadred and fifty acres ; a Cuitable proper- j!?
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
great part of the arable land is in a high state of cultiva- £e
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover J
On said plantaticrr there is a genteel two-story brick honfe, l 0
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under t a
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage- he
house The garden islarge, and contains a gbod collec te
tion of the best kinds of grafted atid inoculated fruit trees; w
the orchaidtonliftsof about three hundred grafted app'e- la
trees. Any pcrfon inclined to purchase said premiles, may so
be infortacd sf the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER.
Joly 49 f k'
To be Sold,
The Timeof a ftnart, active Negro Lad,
Who has Eleven years to serve.
Knquire at No. 58, South Front-street.
OAaiber 18. £
To be dilpofed of,
r r'HE'time of a healthy *'EGRO WOMAN, who
X has between fa'or and five years to serve: She
can be recommended for her i'obriety and honesty. For v
particulars enquire at No. 13a, Chefnut-ftrtet.
A "g ul-t v/jeftf n
To be Let,
Two Rooms, furnijhed. or unfurnrjhed, -
in a three-story Brick House, at a vtry small dif
fanc e from the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe. The use of
<he Kitchen may be had, and that of a Cellar.
Apply at this Office.
October 24.
Waeted to Rent, \
J convenient, lOell firxifiaj Bed Chamber,
With a good Sre-place, in an niry rnd hea!:hy part of
;he city. The person whe wants to rest fucn a chamber, !
would have no objeclion to board, or breakfaft only, with i
' "fe family occupying the house, 11 may be most agreeable.
Apply to the primer,
September ty. „ w
I m • * • ■' I
f ■ .
New Hat and Hosiery Srajts,
Wholesale, and Rktail, r
By WILLIAM M'DQUGALL, i
No, 134, Market Street, 3 d door from the corner
of Fourth, South Side•
Mens* Black American andfcnglih Hats, of various qua -
ities and prices. t.o
Ditto Drabs and Green-undsr3. m
Ladies' ditto black ar
And a large assortment of fancy ditto
l Coloured Beavers , , . oi
With a great variety of elagant and fafhionable trim- w
mings* &c.
Yoilfh's black and drab coloured ditto.
i Children's fancy ditto a]
All kinds of silk, silk and cotton, cott6ti and thread hose
Knit coloured Pantaloons p
. Ditto Drawers
Ditto Breeches Patterns a<
Silk Gloves hi
Knotted, coloured ditto, cotton.
A quantity of mehding cotton, sorted colours. al
N. B. Ihe hats finilhed in the newest falhon.
' ft. 17- eodim. tf
—u • " ' ' r<
' This Day is Published,
6 By William Cobbett, oppolite Chr fl-Church, l a
An Answer to Paine's Rights of Mah, h
By R 'Makenzie, Esq. of Edinburgh. fe
To •which is added, 11
J A Letter to Citizen Swanwick,
s By Peter Porcupine.
The whole is dedicated to Do<s\or Joseph Priestley,
Fellov «f the Royal Socifcty of London, Citizen of
America, and Deputy Eledl to the National Conven-
tion of France.
; Oa.lß. ,
Valuable Real Estate,
A
Forfait at AuHion by Casper Thiell, of Hamburg,
late the property of James and [Villiam K'tnnear. g
For fafe by public auction,on the 9th day of November
next ensuing, at the sign of Gen. Walhingtdn, Wood's
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county, the follow
ing real eftate,to.
A TRACT of land containing 465 acres with
No. I allowance for roads,called the Purchase, '
"fiuated in Brunfwick townlhip, Berks county, patented, _
18th o' Jan. 1788 Thistraift, ofwhichabout 15 acres
are cleared, is of good foil, situated on the or
Little Schuylkill, well 'watered and timbered, on which is
ere&ed a good log dwelling house and liable.
No. 2. A tra<s of unimproved lend, containing 284 a
cres, with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented 28th
Odober, 1790, situated in Brunfwick townlhip, Berks
county, foil good.
No. 3. A tradl of unimproved land, containing 376 a
cres with allowance, &c. called Hilllburg, patented »Bth
Odlober 1790, situation, &c. as No,». _
No, 4. A tra<ft »f unimproved land, containing 3HB a -
' cres, with allowance, See. patented 28th of OcSober, 1786,
[' situation, &c. as No. a and 3. T
No. 5. A trail of land, containing 268 acres, and J2 1
perches, with allowance, &c. situated in Brunfwick towh- Q j
. ihip, Berks county, on l'omagua, or little Schuylkill, 5 p t
miles above the town «f Hamburg on which is ere died a
I well finifhed two story fquaredlog dwelling house, 27 a
t feet by 35, Within the distance ofioo perchesfrem a forge, a ,
, with the advantage of a ferry and public houjc; these ad- f v
t vantages render this trad very valuable. p
No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed with a post p
' and rail, or board fence, containing in front, 60 feet, and «
in depth lße feet; fubjeil to a grouHd rent of 7/6 per an- «t
- 110 m. «<
No. 17. Atownlbtin Hamburg, enclosed asno 16,t0 «
which it adjoins, being of the fame dimensions, and fubjeA «
to the fame ground rent, on which is eredled a log stable, «
16 by 18 feet «
r No. 18. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No. 17, «
' a corner lot, fronting on Main and Schuylkill streets, di- «
nitfnfions the farpc as No. 16 ahd if, above defcri'j"-d, sub- «
, je<sl to 10/b per annum ground rent. On this lot is er- <■
eiled a large 2 flory dwelling house, 45 feet front on Main «
street, by 34 feet in depth on Schuylkill street, pleasantly «
and advantageously situated for a store. <«
N. B. The above described three town lots will be fold "
separately or together, as may best suit the purchasers.
If Conditions' of sale—One third of the purchase money J
to be paid to the subscribers, or either of them in Philadel- n
phia, at or befsre the expiration of one month from the f (
day of sale, when a deed of conveyance will be executed ; p
the residue payable in 2 equal payments, at 6 and 12 months c
with intereft,the payment wherettf to be secured by mort
gage on the premises. ' g
» e Jamu Henderfon, "J Affignsesta
Frederick MotiimoUin, I the estate of J
ie ' Thomas Rogers, f & Wm.
Joseph D. Drinker, J
September 26. m & th.
STOP THE THIEVES!!! i
I* \
lm LAST Wednesday Ev»ng, Oftobcr 19, between the E
hefcrsctf7 and ioo'clock r the bed room of Mr Rickett* in 1 a
O'Eller's hotel was entered, cither by means of falfe kryp, A
or at the window, by fotne villain or villains, who mull have 1 /
l ~ been acquainted wi h the situation of the house (as the door
r was fouiiH locked after they had commitfed me theft) who e .
e > took away from amongst several trunks, OWt which con- -
ir taincd a valuable part of Mr. Rickett's property, but of which
e " he is not yet able to ascertain the contents particularly. Af
c ter bringing the said trunk away, anjd emptying it of up
»; wards of a thousand dollars in cash and bank notes, the vil
e- lains left it behind the circus, during the timt that the pcr
iy formances of the evening were going forward-
It is earnestly requested, that all tavern-keepers oft the flage *<
rpads, and the ferry houses, as well as all civil officers, may i
be watebfal in securing suspicious pcrfoas, who may have a
_ redundance of cash, which their appearance wvuld by no
means bespeak them to be poffefTed of.
One Hundred Dollars Reward
i, Will be given for securing the thief or thieves, and a fur
ther reward for securing them with the property.
Q6t. 21. v v 7
Mr. RICKETTS
BEGS leave to inform the Ladies and Gentlemen, that
he will open his RIDING SCHOOL on the ift of Nov.
10 for the inilruaion of Ladiss end Gentlemen in the ele
gant accompliflimcnt of riding and managing their horses
or with ease to themselves.
Mr. Rieketts has well trained Horses for the accom
modation of Ladies and Gentlemen for exercise to pay :
- monthly. Pupils to pay by the season, or by the lcffon •
Horses trained to the road or field.
Oiteber 24. j
'if- F0 R SAL E. ~~~~
01 A PLANTATION,
A ®° U J 12 ™. i!es^ rom this City, situate in Ahir, K
__ 11 ton TownCiip, Montgomery-County ; containine
70 aer«, a new stone house, .wo stories high, a rooms on f
floor, hre places in each, a stone kitchen and Tlone fprin.
bouse.over .n excellent fpr.ng of wat.r, a barn, stables,
as t l"£e apple orchard, and a var.nvof
about ift acTes of good meadow well waipr^
ith * nd W °°u fuftcieot for fi,r » an <* fencing the place. PofTeiTi'
b l bld ' hr Ift of A P"' ««'■ Property in thu cit
betaken 111 exchange, or MORRIS and NICHOISO'"*
Enquirc " No " 37, Arch-Strett.
Philtdelphu, Srptcmb« 13, jj g 6, tl f t f
Samuel Riciiardet
F) ESPECTFLJLLY informs the Gentlemen
IV Merchants that he has this day opencJ dje CITY
. TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
eity of Philadelphia: . ,
T!ie Subscription Room will tie furmfned with all th _
' diijy papers published in Philadelphia New-York Bos
ton, Daltimore, together with thole or the pr.ncipnl com
mercial citii. of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on'any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soups", Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefiiments,
" will at all times be procured at thenar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicoft of Wines, Spirituous, Liquors, and the molt
approved Malt Liquors iron*. London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earlielt
productions of the Season. -
Large and fmali Parties, dr single Gentlemen, msy be
accommodated with Breakfalls, Dinners, or Suppers, at 1
hours moll CODV. nient to'themfelves—a cold Collation is J
regularly k*pt for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had u
at ths bar. , f l
The Lodging Rooms will be completely fufmfned, and. 1<
the utmost attention paid to dcSnlinefs, and every other J
r*quifitc. .
S\MutL RicHAßaETwill behappyto receive, and a
execute the commands of his Fiicnds, s and the Public at I
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
> himfelf that nothing 011 his part shall be wanting to pre- u
fervethat patronage with which he has been so diftinguiul- a
ingly honored. '
Philadelphia, April 19. mV '__ *
Wa TS on's ANS WER tO GIBB ON. s
f JUST RECEIVED, R
■ And foriale by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
Apology for G hriftianity, "
In a ferie< of Letters, adireffed t» £
Edward GiSbon, Es<^.
Author of the History of the Decline and Fall of the j
' Roman Empire:
Sir*. WATSON, d. d. F. k. s. E'ilhop of Lsiidaff.
(Price 75 cents bound.)
Watson's Answer to Paine,
To be had at the fame place.
, The enemies of Religion are awsake J Let not her
) friends sleep.
Sept. r. mw&ftf
I THIS DAT PUBLISHED,
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftitet, f,
(Price Ii i-» Cent») , tl
The President's Address »
i . .
i 7'o the People of the United Sfates, p
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life d
at the -expiration as the present constitutional term ef r
i presidency. tl
September 20. d b
Treasury of the United States. ti
NOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or r
may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums Cl
" of the Funded Debt, or Stock, beiring a present interijl of fx 0
' per centum per annum.
1 i ft, That pursuant to an Ad of Congress pafled on the _
' 48th uay of April, 1796, intitled an a& in addition to an
> ad, intituled " An ad making fuither proviGon for the
" support of public cradit, and for the redemption of the T
public debt," the said debt or flock will be reimbursed and J
I paid io manner following, to vyit. " First, by dividends c.
* " to be made on the last days of March, June and Scptenv
- " ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand
" seven hundred and fiinety-feven, to the year one thou
-3 " sand eight hundreriic eighteen inclufive,at the rate of
" orie and one half per centum upon the original capital.
> " Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of
" Decembar lor the present year, and from the year one ■
> " thoufar.d seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year 31
- " one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at
" " the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori- _
- " ginal capital; and by a dividend to be maJc on the last a
» " day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun- 4 <
1 " dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade- _
" quate, according to the contrad, for the final redemp- /.
d " tion of the said flock."
ad. All diftindion between payments on account of | r
1 Ifterefl and Principal being thus abolished by the establish- c ,
- ment of the permanent rule of reimplement abova de- j,
escribed, it has become necessary to varvaccsrdingly ,thc tc
i powers of attorHe*4» rcc^w^ijiviUk^ds; (he public ir
:S creditors will therefore obferv'etfut th®. folWjng form ; r
- is eftabliflied for all powers of attorney whichmay be
granted after the due promulgation of this notice, viz. c ,
a KNOW ALL MEN BT THESE PRESENTS, that
f 7 °f fc
1. do mate, conjiitute and appoint el
V my true and laivful At
torney, forme, and in my name, to receive the dividends vih ':eh are,
_ or Jhall be payable according to law, on the (her* describing the
stock) jiandintr in my name in the books of (here defcribinf»the'
books of the Treasury or the Commiflioncr of Loans,
where the dock is credited) from (here insert the com- -
e mencement and expiration of time Tor which tke p«wer of
" ! attorney is to coHtinoe) -with power also an attorney or attcr
*' , un < ler him, for that purpc/e to mate andfuljlitute, and to do all
„ lawu 'f ul " 3l requifttefor effeShg thepremifes, hereby ratifying and
Q confirming all that myfaid Attorney or hisfulfitute,Jhall lawful-
1 _ {y ty virtue hereof. t ,
h la iVitnefs hereof, I lave hereunto set ay Hand and Seal the a
f. day of in the near t ,
j. Sealed and Delivered
J- in P re f e » c Wf>
r- BE IT KNOW Nytbat on the day of
efore me perfonal\y came
V- Y'"'"' namcd and "'""■vl'dged the above letter of attorney to le
ty bis mSI and deed.
a In tejlimony -whereof I have hereunto fct my Han land affix
, Seal the day and year last aforJaid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to diredions
r- »rom the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
„ 1 reafurer of tlte United States.
- July wis" st I J
>t A Manufactory FOR SALE. t
. A V.luable SOAP and CANDLE M anufa a o ry, situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
e8 on an entirely original conftrudion, and built of the bell
«v!l CT,a !v,\ r" fct to work ■mmediately. Persons
- ,o " N °- »73.
n. Septensber 13. ttf t f
notice.
- TZ^ h 7> - avins been reduced in h; » eircum
.L stance,, by sundry misfortunes, and being thereby
unable to fat.sfy his just debts, hereby gives notice to hf S
Creditors and to all persons concerned, that he intends to
apply to the General Alterably of Maryland at r
session to be held on the firft Monday of November next
lg for the benefit of an ad of insolvency.
1 a U a n r , WILLIAM EDMONDSON
„ g Ea ft on, Ift Of the 9 th month, , 796. iawultMN
of nankeen s,
n' °f the f ,r M quality, FOR SALE W,
Ity RD. and JAS. POTTER.
" :s ,Ff an J. Five Thousand Pieces, a li
beral credit will be given b & r p
L September 13. T tf
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the heft quality and on reafonabk terms,
FOR SALE BY
Philip l icklin & Co.
Augud a 6. dtf
For Sale,
; A Three-dory BRICK HOUSE and Let, in Chefnut
11 street, between Front and Second druets, in which
Meflrs. James Calbriith & Co. have for many year* (and
j bow do) carried on business.
Poffcflion will be giveu in one month, or sooner.
1 For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
t HECTOR CALERAITH.
April »i. §
' Treasury Department,
: September 28, 1706.
t XTOTICE is hereby given, that propofab wt() -Iktk
s X ctived at the office of the Secretary of the Trealury
1 until the expiration of tfte firfi day of March nest eri
fuing, for thefupply of all rations which may her quired
1 for the use of the United States, from the iiriL iy of
r June, 1797, to the thirty-fird day of May, I7yß, both
clays inclusive, at the places and within the didricls htre-
J after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; it Niagara; at
t Pjcfque liie at Sandufky Lake, and on Sanduflcy
s River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
- lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ;
- at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jtffftrfon ; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance; at any place b«lo\y Fort
Defiance 6n the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort Maffac ; at any place from Fort MaiTac
to the Jouth boundary of the United States on the river
Miilifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
t If supplies (hall be required lor any pods or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies ffiall be fur
niflied at prices proportioned to thole to be paid at the
pods bsfore reciteu, or as may be hereafter agreed 011
between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to consul of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound tiyo ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy rr whilkey.
One quart and half a pint of falt.~\
r Two quarts ef Vinegar, ( ■ » , .
Two pounds of Soap, > per hundred rations ,
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be fnrnilhed in such quantities, as that
there (hall at all times during the said term, be fufficient
for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
. troit, Niagara, asia Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
j advance, and at'each of the other pods, for the term of
at lead three mSnths in advance, in good and wholesome
provisions, if the fame ffiall be required. It is to be un
: derdoud, that the Contractor is to be at the exjenc« and
f risk of ifiuirgtlie supplies to the troops at each post, and
that all lodes fivdained by the depredatiblls of an enemy, or
by tnsansof the troops of the United States, {hall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or dedroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a commiflioncd officer, as
. certaining the circumdances of the loss, and the amount
of the-ai tides for which compensation fball be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
: Secretary of the Treasury.
Lottery
FOR raising fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
i cent from the prizie, and not two blanks to a prize. viz
I Prize of jooo dollars is dollars jooO
I I 1000 1000
■ i 500 500
J SOO JCCO
• aO 100 Ijig;" 2COO
99 jo 49J0
; soo 25 5 000
3000 -j 10 20,000
' S Lad drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000
1 »33» Prizes. 44,450
• 4018 Blanks.
6jjo Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftabliffi
ing Uifeful Manufactures, the fuperintendauts of the Pat
erfon Lottery have requeded the Manager* to offer the
; foregoing S#heme to the public, and have directed them f
- to refund the money to those persons who have purchnfed
- in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
1 in this Lottery.
1 The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finiffied. A lid of the Blanks and Prizes
/ may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second dreet, who will give information where tick
ets may b« procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J- N■ GUMMING, ~)
■i JACOB R. HARDENBERG, > Managers.
= JONATHAN RHEA, )
' dtf eo
—
{ Washington Canal Lottery,
■1 n°. 1. .
J "\T rHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
e a Canal through the City of Waffiington, frosi th POS
tomacto theEadern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz .1 Prize of ao,ooo dollars, ao,ooo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 lad drawn ■) _
•t Tickets, each J s>° oo 35>°o°
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
20 ditto 100 ' a,ooa
1- 55 ditto jo a,750
18 J7jo ditto 1 a 69,008
To be raised for th« Canal, a6,2j0
5 Bjo Prizes, 1,7j,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.J
17joo Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
te £5° The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
if, quired by the aforefaid aCt for the punctual payment 01
ft the prizes.
is The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
3, delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
• , Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months *fter th«
drawing is finiffied, shall be confidercd as rclinquiftcJ fop
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
' (Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
'7 DANIEL CARKOLL, of D.
118 LE\«S DEBLOIS,
° GEORGE WALKER,
" Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of WafhipjtoD, Feb. 11. §
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
• : —No. 119 —
, chesnht-street.
Eight Dollars per Anns 14.j