•'* . . £ ..... . . - • _ ' ' i • ;/, V./-
of the tUllitft & Philadelphia Daily Advertise-
Ncm pup : 228.1 TUESDAr EVENING, AUGUST 16, i? 96. : T.
_ . ... . . %rvr% /«. -r r * Tn n 1n nr Vio »• o 1 O « /-«V» ov»-1 As I 1? fA B 1? 1 /VI) CA "»
• For HAMBURGH,
j_ PL. TI|E SHIP
JOHN,
R«i r «T Jackson, Master,
(5--ir-*!§n> To fai ' in
J/£*^ii» J £feC3 HAV j NG two . t hir<!- of har cargo en
gaged and ready to go on board. For freight or paffigi
apply to the master on bo*n'. at Wain's whan, or to
John Donnaldfon,
No. «4 Wabut-i'rtet.
;juiy A r~.
JOA- The brig iVt*KY.
FOR SALE,
AND miy be seen it Abiah and WTJians
Brown's w®*arf. She is alout 800 barrels
burthen, strong built, and well but-bolted, his elegant
accommodations, is a good sailer, only 10 months old
and aay be sept to fca immediately. Apply to
James Brown,
No. 119 South Second-street.
Who has forfale, a few puncheons high proof
Jamaica Spirits.
AND A FEW BARRELS SHAD.
Aug. 13
For Rotterdam,
The £kip
Catharine,
* • *'"John Farraday, Master,
thirds'of her cargo will be on
jl T>oard this week. The remaining
third will be taken on freight if offered soon, as fhc will
positively fail in all next week. • A few paflengers can be
v eil accommodated. Far terms of freight or passage .
apply to the captain on board at Mr. Huddle's wharf, or
to ; -TOWN CRAIG,
AQg. 8 5 T?* • . _ lfe.ijreaefc-ftt«tr -
For Sale or Charter,
BOSTON,
BURTHEN about 2000 Bbls. of flour—(He may be sent
to sea at a small cxpence, her fails and rigging being in
very good order— a pply to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April ag, 4 .§
For Madeira,
James Wickham, Master,
r '«U »■ Expe&ed to fail in all next week,
WILL take »tew barrels on freight. Apply to the mas
ter on board at Stamper's wharf, or to
John Donnaldfon,
No. 25 Walnut-street*
Aug. 6 §7
' ■ 1 ■ .... .1 . ■» . , ,
Tuft Arrived.
In the OiipTw >iiy, John tied. \j,n*r r.— i:— r —i
5000 Bushels Bed fine ftoved SALT,
6co Buthels HOUSE COaL,
And 118 Crates of QUEENS WA RE ,
FOR SALE BY
Philip Nicklin & Co.
N. B. THE S'AID
Ship MOLLY,
TS for S A LE or CHARTER, (be is 5
1 yeaisold, Philadelphia built, of white
oak, was well failed and carries about 4200 barrels of Flour
FortertPs apply as above.
>iy 23 dtf
This Day commenced Landing,
At, IV ifHin* wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop
V Jago, from St. Jago de Cuba—confining of
White and Brown $ox SUGAR.
Mt>LASSES, of au excellent Quality.
COFFEE.
HIDES and HONEY. Alio,
For Sale or Charter.
The brig LUCY,
y.tWt'SSA out > ron g vessel, will carry a
xlL bout 1200 barrels,and may go to
- sea with a very small expense.
TFieabovewltt be fold for cash or approved notes.
Samuel Emery,
No. 64, south Second-flreet.
July 17, 1796. ~ dtf.
For Sale,
Or for Charter to the Well-Indies,
THE frHIP
C E R - ifi S,
Philadelphia Built,
Of Live Oak and Red Cedar, btirthen about 3500 ba
rrels, now discharging at Latimer's wharf. This ves
sel is In excellent rc'pair, well found and wiii bear a tho
rough examination, and as S on as discharged will be rea
dy to take in a cargo. Tor tirms apply to
John Vaughan.
§_
Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li
verpool,
soeo Bnftiels SALT ;
rco Crates QUEENS WARE; and
An Aflortraent of SHIP CHANDLERY;
FOR SALE
On board, at Pine-flreet wharf. Apply to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April tr>. - $
A middle-aged Woman,
WHO has been used to the care of children, and can
give reference for her reputation, may hear of a
Uce, as child's maid, by applying to the Printer.
'-»£• '5 §
Apprentice wanted
TO CARVING AM) GILDING.
A You'll about 14* of refpe&ablc parents and can be
f\ well recommend'-'d. None other need apply.
Enquire of the Printer. Aug. .15 31
-
Landing
From on board this Nancy, William Btlcber, mas
ter, from Bourdatnx, a cargo, coniiliir^'ot —
360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET,
2?2 Cases of 24 bottles each, Claret,
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
BRANDY. SWEET OIL, and
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS,
For Sale fey
F. Coppingei.
July 23* .. _ dtf.
Wm. HOLDERNKSSE,
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the late ft arrivals from Europe and
the East Indies, a well fcleflcd assortment of Silk j
Mercery; Lintn Drapery and Haberdalhiry Goods; which
' he will fell, Whoiefale and Retail, on the lowefl terms ; I
AMONGST WtllCH ARE,
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and silver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aad Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffi>ties,luti(ftringsand colored Persians
Bandano Handkerchiefs
tong and Ihort Nankeens
English Mantuasof the firft qnality
Damaflc table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant allortrmmt
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green /ilk, oil'd d«. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irish Linens, do. ' &e. &c. June 14 §
Wanted,
A Partner with a small capital to unite in the business
of a Mill and DilHllerj in Virginia. Inquire of
' the Printer. Aug. 9 §iw
For Sale,
A Three ftorf BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second streets, in which
Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on business.
Pofieifion will b;j»iven in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April ai. I $
~FOR SALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
in pipes and hogsheads
Claret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, In pipes, from Holland
Earthen YVare, in crates
Balket Salt,- in hogsheads ,
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, » and 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Russia,- in barrels
Anchors, cablet, Junkx, bunting, tarpolin canvas,
Tip plates—An invoice Stationary, by
THOMAS & JOHN KETLANb.
July 29 f
CABLES,
From 16 to 9 £ inches, for sale by
' Wjeremiah Warder,
July 11 $ No 11 no.-th Third-ilrcet.
ELEPHANT.
This Animal is to be seen in High.Street, between
the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street.
HE will positively leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep
tember, for Baltim.rc, in his way to Chatleftpn,
where he will win'er
ADMITTANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar
for Children.
The PANORAMA, or the VIEW of the CITIES of
LONDON and WESTMINSTER,
Is to be open till the 10th of September, and the fub
jeefc wifl then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE- ;
PHANT. 1
ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA, 1
One quarter of a Dollar.
August 3. '
j
of India Goods. ;
The Cargo of the fcip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal- ,
cutta and Bengal,
consistino or 1
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine werked and plain Muslins,
Doreas, Vc. AITo,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
Id boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings & Francis,
No. a 1 Peon Street. •
June 8 §
A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's place is wanted by a person properly quali
fied, and whose character will be found unexception
able. Apply to the Printer.
Aug. 11 tf
Forfale by the fublcribers,
IN PiNN-STREET,
130 quarter Chests frelh Hyson Tea;
ieo ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing small tea setts of 4a :
pieces;
400 pieces Bandanoes. 1
Willings £sf Francis.
January 30 3ta\v. (
Lottery and Broker's Office, <
N°' 64 South Secondftreet,
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery No. 11, are now rea
dy for lale, a Check Book kept for the examination
of Tickets, and Prizes paid, withaut deduction.
The Subscriber solicits the application of the Public or 1
any ol his friends who wilh to or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange, or Notes, Houses, Lands,
Lotts or Merchandize of any kind, or to obtain Money
on deposit of property.
WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
Late Agent for the Canal Lottery Company.
Shares an ; Tickets in the late Newport Long g
Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery examined; a a
complete lift of all the prizes having been received at p
this eflice.
June 6. w&s ]
Samuel Richard et,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN ancIMERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
fity of PiiiUdiitiiiai
The SiAfcriftiun Room will be furnilhed with all the
daisy papers ptMjlhedin Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore .together with thole of the principal com
mercial citi*i <2 Europe—'They will be regularly filed
Mia none perraited to be taken awav on any »tcount.
Tea, Ceffcc, loupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of FruachJiio' rs; together with the uf*ilre£p«(hmeitt»,
will at «1I aiiftbe procured .itthibat.
Oentlemeij jnly depend on being accommodated with
the ehoiCvft of Win«s, Spirituous I jquors, and the nrofl
ip proved MalfLiqnors fremLondbn and other breweries.
The L.arder will be (Applied with the prime and earliefl
1 productions of the Sea ion.
i Large and frriall Farties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfasts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hum's mod conv.nient te themfelresj— a> cold Collation is
i regularly kept for conveniency, tht Bill of Fare to be had
at tho bar. \
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furni&ed, and
the utmoll attention paid to dednlinefs, and every other
requiStc.
gf S \uuxl Richakdet will behappy to receive, and
execute the commands of hi» Friends, rrd the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part (hall be wasting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. e®
Philip Nicklin & Co.
iIAVE FOR SjILE,
Souchong
Hyson Skin /
Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS
Hyfnn and \
Imperial J ,
Yellow Njnkeenj
China Wire. aUbrttd in Bojtm and CHests
Qtiickii.ver
Bandanio Handkerchiefs of excellent quality Jo
chests
Market } MADEIRA WINE
London (articular >in pipes, hogsheads, &
New-York' Market ) quarter casks
Teneriffi Wine in pipes and hogfceads
Sugar (Jarldy by the Box
S?il Can.-as' No. 1 aS
Lead ill hects
3 Calks C ullery afiarted
A few lefts of Matichefter Goods, aflorted thick
sets, cords, Iriped Nankeens, .iic.
3 3fnr.llpackages of black sewing-silks
IS Ticrcw Virginia Snake-rocst; '/"
N.ul* iiTorted in calki
Jul x'i • mw&f
! On Monday next, ajthinft. (July,)
Willbr landed a Soaih flreci wharf, the canoes of Superb
Weft Inciian and ltabtha, from Jamaica and Havanna, con
fiflitig of
VJolaffes in Hogsheads,
Coffee in hogsheads, barrels & bacjs,
FCX SALS BY
PETER BLIGHT
Who has also for fa la,
A quantity of Jamaica GINGER,
Pimento & 1 T u
Cocoa, \ln Ba S S >
And boxes HamVo* WINDOW GLASS, 7 by 9, will
be foid cheap.
July 20 diot & tilth A s : tot
To be fold,
A PLANTATION, ir, thetewn of Woodbury, coun
ty of Oloucefler, aad (late of New-Jersey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty actcs ; a suitable propor
tion of which is woodlafid and improved meadow. A
gfeat part of the arable land is in a high (late of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clovtr.
On laid plantation there is a getiteel two-story brick house,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whoie ; together with a barn, cern-cribs and "carriage
houfe. The girden is large, and contains a good collec
tion of the belt kinc3s of grafted and inoculated fruit trees;
the orchard consists of about three hundred grafted app'e
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premil'es, may
be informed ®f the terms by applying to
Andrew Hunter.
July *9 F
Asjheton and James Hump hreys,
CONVEYANCERS,
HAVE rirfnoved their office to No. 61, Walrtut-ftreet,
next door but? two to the corner of D#ck-(lreet,
where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn at
a moderate charge, with care, accuracy and dispatch
They likewise buy and fell Real Estates upon commit
fions, and procure Money upon Loan on good security.—
The bufineft of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NOTA
RY PUBLIC is also tranfa<sed at the said office as usual
by ASSHETON HUMPHREYS.
N. B. Good Notes discounted.
July 5. • eo6w
For Sale,
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
IN New Jersey, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbour.
The Grift Mill in sixty by forty feet, two water wheels,
and calculated for four run of Stone*, with screen, faos
and boulting-cloths, &c. TheSaw-Mill has two faw;,and
capable ofcuttingfiveto 6 100 thoufandfectof Boards per
year. A valuable piece ®f Cedar Swamp, within a mile
and a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
of a Landing The Lumber, &c. may be taken by water
from the mill tail.
ALSO FOR SALE,
Several Valuable Tracts of Land,
Ii» Pennf'ylvania, for all of which payment will be receiv
ed in the note's of Mefirs. Morris and Nicholfon, or in
Cacti.
For further information apply to the Printer.
May'i'7. law
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including th; Northern Liberties and diitridt of
South war k ;
Published, and fold bv
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High street,
( Price one dollar.)
THIS p!ai is 26 inclie3 square, and has been en
graved by one ef the firfl artists in the city, from a late
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
chy, Us population, trade, government, &c.
July 19 tu &f tf
r
George Dobso-
BF-GS leave to Inform tHc fr.rixt Kceocrs ir* Tewft a«*i
Country, that he ha« removed Market-StWcMo
N°- 25, south Third-sheet, .
where he is opening a Large and Elegant Afforimeat of the
andenneniioued artirfes—viz.
Sqyerfine Loudon Clothaand Kerteymtrtf,
York'.hire Iccond Do. Do.
Eluftic do. do.
Mix-id and BiueCoatings
FlaiuwlH, See.
Ntauchefter Printed Calicoes,
London Cfiimj ditto,'
ftUwand riiu« FuraiuucK
T Tndii ditto,
Long Cloths, Coffaes, Brftas, Battillaife
4-4 9-S 5-4 & 6-4 Sooerfim- India Bo®k Mnflins,.
'4-4 : aod 9-8 India book Kauakerchicts,
4*4 and 9-8 Sc itrK ditto,
4-4 & 6-4 plain do Mulßiu,
4-4 & 6-4 Biitilh Jaeoner*^
6-4 British Checks and Mripes,
4-4 India do. do. do.
4-4 ditto Cliilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, &c.
AlarjeaiTintment of ftgur'd andnlain Hfuflineft,
Qoiitinga, Uimftiesi and Stuped Nankeens,
Fancy Waiftcoatings,
Ginanaftis ot the fir ft Quality, fubjefk to Drawbacks .
India Nankeens,
Men's White and coteured Silk (lockings.
M»V. 9 ■ t
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RAN away this morning, from the SuHfcriber, living
in the county of Monmouth, New-Jersey, a rematk
itbly black Neijro Man, named B£N—ahout-' 40 years of
age, j feet 9 or 10 utfh. s high, ft out made, bald tm th#
crown of his head ; had on and took with him a grey
homespun coating cost and jacket, a brown cloth coat,
with a black collar, hemefpun ttrw fltirts' and tfowfers,
with other Hurts aad fmaH cloaths wb.cfc cannot be enu
merated. He is a complail'ant, artfiri and deceitful fellow.
! Wfy-iever Will take up and secure the said Runaway, fa
that his owner may htm again, (hall have the above r#>
wild, aad 1 cafoJiijilt charges paid if ha*ic.
Elijha Luwrancf.
July ii—Aug. t Siw
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AMD WILL MKjsBID
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
TTfITH a LOT of GROUND thereunto belonging,.
VV the weft fide of Third-street, near Union-street
containing in front 31 feet, and in depth 100 feet, to an
alley leading into Union-ftrcet. The house is 31 feetfront
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it ar«
large, commodious, and completely finifhed; the twofirft
stories are each 13 feet high; there are-10 mahogany
doorn in the house ; a geometrical staircase, with maheg;-
ny rails and a good sky-light. The kitchen is jn the cell
ar, which isfpacious and convenient, and finifhed with as
oven, steW-holes and pantries, a ferrants' hall and large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an
area in which there is a pump The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat
brick hottfe, on the north fide of Union-ftrevt, contain
ing 30 feetfront by zofcet deep; the lower part of which.
is at present occupied as a compting-houfe, and the upper
part divided into well-finiihed large chambers. Thishcafs
may at a small expense be converted into a convenient
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the front
and back have Venetian window-fh utters. Adjoining the
Uft house. iipan.ths lot belonging t«_±ke firO, are cre&ei
bathing-rooms, tkc. There are likewise very gooi coach
house and ftjibles finifhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
the city, on a-lot-containing on Union flreec 30 feet, arid
in depth on the wsft fide of said alley 51 feet. There are
good cellars uude, the whole of the buildings, and a wine
room over part of the ft able, with-a hay-loft over the re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDW/VRD BONS LL & Co.
At thetr Office No. 64 Dock-ltreet. between Walnut & Pea
e0 ftretti.
6th month iijth, 1796
Just Published, '
BY THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone House, No- 51 South ScconJ Street,
neatly printed in one volume quarto, price fix
dollars the fine paper, or five dollars the com
m'on:
The Four GoJpels,
TRANLATED FROM THE GREEK-,
With preliminary Differta ions, and Notes critical andei«
planatory.
By GEORGE CAMPBELL, D. D. F. R. S.
&c. Principal of Marifchal College, Aberdeen.
* # * The chara&er of the tfuthor, for acutenefs
and eiudition tiai been cilablifhed by his eflay on *
miracles in answer to David HuT.e," the greatest '
maftirpiece of the kind ever publilhed, and by hi»
" Philosophy of Rhetoric," and to the merit of
the present work, the result of nearly forty year*
study and application, and the fubltance of his
course of lectures in his offieial capacity, the
reviewers have given ample testimony, but their ac
count, however honorable to the wotk, is too long
for a place in this advertisement, the wotk howev
er is now presented in* an American edition at not
more than half the price of the London copy.
July 4wiw
Landing,
From en board the Schooner Expedition,
St. Croix Rum&Sugar,
For Sale by F. COPPINGER,
Aug. 11 § ill South Front-street.
Spanijh Treaty Ratified.
THIS DAY, Puhlifhed by J. ORMROD, No. 41,
Chksnut-Streit, in a handsome pamhlet.
(Price 12 arid i-» Cents.)
A TREATT of FRIENDSHIP, LIMITS &
NAVIGATION,
BETWEEN the United States of America, and hit
Catholic Majesty—with the Prefideat's Proclamation
announcing its ratification.
ORMROD has lately Publifted the Britilh and At
germe Tre'atiel, which match in f'rze with the above.
Alfa, Burke's celebrated letter to the Duke of Bad
ford, and Wharton's answer to Prieflley -1
August 13. 4t§mw&f.
To be disposed of,
THE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
has between four" and five years to ferv« : She
can be recommended for her sobriety and'honefly. Fer
particulars enquire at No. 132, Chefnut-ftrect.
Aiiguft 3.V , 3tv.tf.'"' * / •
To be fold by public fiile,
ON Wednesday, the 7th day of September next, on
the premises in Mount-Holly,Burlington county, by
the Subscriber,
The Dwelling-House and Lot
Whereon it stands, having been in part occupied as a (lore
for several years past, and in a good stand lor Vtifinefs,to
gether with the (lorc-houfe, stable and buildings thereon
erected, having two large cellars under them. Also, the
shop goods and household furniture. A clear title will be
given to the purchaser on payment of the money or fuf
'ficient bond therefor, and possession of the premises will
be given in the said month of September.
. The/ale is so continue 'till the whole is disposed of.
Mount Holly having become rhe County Town, makes
this property m«re valuable than heretofore. The condi
tions willbemade known at the time and place of sale, by
PETER SHIRAS.
N. B. All per Tons indebted to the fubferiber, are requeu
ed to difchargethe fame immediately, as he intends soon
to remove out of this ft ate. Any person having a just de
mand againfl tha fubferiber, is requested to produce the
fame for settlement.
Mount Holly, August 16, 1796- '
"wanted,
A STORE and Cellar or Compting house and Cellar,
for the Wholesale and Dry Good business. Enquire
at No. Ix 9 Arch-flreet.
For Sale at the alove place,
500 Boxes Window Glass, 8 by 10, 7 by 9, &c.
500 Cream Cheeses in the bed order, imported from
Holland, and entitled to drawback. Enquire of
Peter Borger,
Aug. 16 iaw3w
For Boston,
The brig Neptune,
James Tower, Master,
WILL fall on Sunday next. For freight or pafiage apply
te EDWARD STOW, Jun.
Aug. 16 § No. 76 South Front-street.
Letters Patent,
Granted to the Subscriber, for the Cure of
Incurvations and Di/iortions of the Spine.
EVERY thing has been studied to render this applica
tiorifTafe, cafy, effeSual, and generally ufeful, and
' that if necessary, it may be accompanied with any other
mode.
The/uccefsof the Patentee in the cure of distortions,
from Incurvations of the Sp%le, the Wry Neck, &c. in
. thi» city and in different parts ef the United States, under
the of eminent physicians, when every other
mode had failed, wiU, it is hoped, afford the public fuf
ficient testimony of the utility of this application.
N. B. He makes an apparatus for refloring distorted
feet in children —Bandages in general—Truffasof various
deicriptibns, and one in particular on a plan entirely new,
•which in some cases is found to answer better than any
other.
He returns thanks to those medical gentlemen in differ
ent parts of the United States who have honored him with
their patronage and confidence.
gy The Ladies are refpedtfully informed, that he has
an elegant assortment of St"ys and Corsets for Sale, which
■will be altered if necessary, free of extra charge.
LUNDIN M'KECHNIE,
Aug. 16 21W3W No. 17 Dock-street.
Wr AN ARTIST,
Resident at Mr. Oellers's Hotel,
MINIATURE LIKENESSES
ARE taken and executed in that elegant and delicate
stile, which isfo necessary to render a Miniature Pic
ture an interesting jewel.
He will warrant a strong and indisputable refem
blar.ee; and he takes the liberty to lay before the public
of this place his most earned intention to deserve their pa
tronage by kcA-enUiavnrs-tcv-plettfc.
N. B. Specimens are to be seen.
May 12. ' ?
Auction Sales.
India Goods at Audtion.
ON Friday next, at 10 o'clock in the meaning, will be
fold at auction, at No. 56 South Front-street, about
60 bales of India white Goods, entitled to the drawback,
confifling of—
Long Cloths
Baftas
Gurrahj
Emerties
Coffaes
Humhums
T anjibs
Mull Mulls.
, Edward Fox, Au&'r.
Aug.ii.
Sherry Wine T
NOW LANDING,
FROM the Ihip General Walhington, at Riee-flreet
wharf, and WILL BE SOLD BY AUCTION,
On Wednesday next,
A.t lo o'clock in the morning, for approved notes at
SIX MONTHS,
Four hundred Quarter-Caflcs of
S HE R R Y WINE.
Edward Fox, Auctioneer.
Aug. 1;
Lottery
FOR railing fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
centfrom the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
1 Prize of jooo dollars is dollars 5000
j 1000 1000
i 500 500
j aoo ioca
4 o 100 aooo
99 jo 4950
aoo 3-J • J°°°
aoco io ao,ooo
5 Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars' each, 5000
4331 Prizes. 44i450
4018 Blanks. ,
635 c Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45°
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftabiiih
ingUfeful Manufactures, the luperintendants of the Pat
erfon Lottery hive requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing S«heme to the public, and have directed them
. to refund the money to ihcife persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange ti*e tickets for tickets
ip this Lottery.
I'he lottery hasaftually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second ftrett, who will give information where tick
ets may te pocured.
Dated tliis 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N GUMMING-, 1
JACOB R. HARDENBERG,> Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, J
'7*ranjlated for the Gazette of tb- United
From 3. Parii gaper entitled L.e Republican J /(in
fait, dated April 10, 1796.
To the Editor of the Republican Frangais.
THE Treaty of £ommerce lately concluded
between the American and the English govern
ment, is the specious pretext on which the enemies
of France found their insinuations that the execu
tive of the United States is not well disposed to
wards the Fiench Republic, and that he is entirely
in the iaterefts of England. A true exposure ot
facts will demonstrate the falfeßood of these insinu
ations, and juflify the condu£l of the government
of my country.
When the French Republic declared war againfl
England, orders were given by tie committee of
public fafety, to seize, without difoiimination, all
American veflels which French (hips ps war should
find on the sea, and fend them into the different
ports of the Republic. These orders have been
flri&ly executed, and even with a good deal of
1 rigour : numbers of American captains have been
taken from on board their veflels, a.id carried fey
the captors to ports rfmote from those to which
they sent their pretended prizes; the crews dis
persed, some of them impiifoned, Itnd otherwise
ill treated ; the agents of the government seized
many of the cargoes, put them in a state of re
quisition, even of those velTels deltined for the ports
of France, and many of these cirgoes are not yet
paid for, notwithstanding the numerous representa
tions to our ministers againfl all these violations of
our treaties of Alliance and Commerce, violations
which would be regarded by ail oiher powers, less
moderate, and less fineercly attached to ths French
Republic than the United States, as so many- .acts
of hofliiity.
The Convention passed a Jeace, purporting
that France would cease arresting our veflels at sea,
when the powers at war with the Republic should
refpeft our -flag.
We had no treaties of Alliance and of Com
merce with England, and we never should have
formed any if France had not forced us to it by
this folimn declaration.' In short, vliat else could
the government of rhe United States do, to pro
te& the maritime commerce of iti citizens, in
-circumstances so diffieult ? The Erglifh pillaged
our veflels on one fide, and the Frerch ruined cur
commerce on the other.
Our commerce thus a prey to two of the belli
gerent powers, France reduced us, by the declara
tion above reeited, to the alternativ of breaking
with England, or of making a treaty with her.—
This last measure, since the peace of 1783, had
always been avoided by oar government; bgt it
was preferable to a rupture which would have been
prejudicial to our commercial intereils: we should
have been deprived of the means of provifloning
the French islands, and of furnifhing the French
Republic with those innumerable cargoes of grain
and which have entered their ports. The
committee of public fafety were ve.y sensible that
our neutrality was more advantageaus to France
than a state of war, without a marine equally re
fpe&able to oppose to the fleets of Great-Britain,
and it was this consideration that led them te ap
prove of ouf neutrality ; but the depredation
committed upon our commerce rendered a treaty
witlr England inßifpenfable, in order to put an end
to it.
' Nothing was more .difficult to acsomplifh ; the
English minister saw with jealousy the marked pre
ference of the United States in favor of France—
the part which they took in America, in the fuir
ceffes of the Republic—the public rejoicings in
which they celebrated the news of every victory
of the French—and the public wishes of all my
fellow-citizens for the prosperity and triumph of
the Republic, pubh'fhed in all the journals and ga
zettes of the United States; in fa<ft, the Britilh
minister was so much irritated againfl us, that in
the end of the year 1793 ' c was decided in the
council of St. James to declare war againfl us :—
but the retaking of Toulon by the victorious arms
of the Republic, and the subsequent conquests of
France, diverted the florm which was ready to
break upon us.
In this hostile disposition towards us on the pait
of G. Britain, it was'impoflible for our govern
ment to conclude a treaty with her, for the pro
tadlion of out commerce, without giving her some
great advantages—but the clause of the treaty
which formally declares that no article shall be
construed derogatory to our treaties with France,
ought fully to fatisfy the government of the Re
public in t}iis refpedl.
I do not pretend to defend the treaty of Mr.
Jay againfl the attacks of several of my compa
triots, but only to demonstrate that France has no
cause of complaint, and that the government of
my country has done nothing to juftify the accusa
tions of those who endeavor to perfuade'the people
that the President of the United States entertains
fentimer.is unfavorable to the Republic. They
ought to be considered as the enemies <jf France,
as well as of America, who seek t6 disunite the
two nations. It should be reoolle&ed, that the
United States are the firfl power who, at an im
mense diftanee, recognized the Fiench Republic ;
and that it was the firfl who appointed a minister
j lenipotentiary to iefide in France in that capacity..
I know that it will afford a tnuipph to the enemies
of France should they succeed h» their endeavors
to embroil us. The difaffefted will leave no me
thods uneffnyed to flir up jealousy and discord be
tween the two Republics, and for this purpose
they will repeat at Paris the fame intrigues, which
they would have playeS at Philadelphia but the
government of France is too wife to give intofuch
palpable attempts to them,,aid they will
not be more fuccefsful here than they have been
with the executive of America.
AN AMERICAN.
LANDS, —
In Harrifon county, Virginia, so- Sale.
FOUR Tradls containing .5000 acres each, and a moiety
of one other tract of 5000 acres, all lltuated on the
waters of Elk and Hughes's riven
For further particulars enquire at No. 70 Ciefnut-fl reet,
where the Patentsjhay be seen.
E fw&m3t
'
'ifiiirrr i"-- - * V- - t■ > •"■-
CONTIA 'JATIOK OF
Foreign Intelligence.
From London and other F.ng\'i[h'bnpers received by the
Jh'ip Farmer, M'Collom, from London, and other
late arrivals.
LONDON, May 12.
" • SIERRA LEONE COMPANY.
The Dire&ors have lately published their Re
port, delivered at the last Meeting by the Chairman,
Mr. H. Fliornton, which contains a brief account
of the pre lent ttalc of'tnc Colony, grounded upon
the declaration they had proposed on a former oc
casion, of reducing wjthin narrow limits the whole
amount of the risk which they wire about to in
cur io Afiica. The fettlcment has, since the at
tack there reported, continued uninterruptedly to
improve, and has not become fobjedfc to any new
danger or calamity. The healthiness of the cli
mate has also improved. The deaths of iVjhty of
the one hundred and twenty. BritiCh sailors then
said to have been landed (here by the French from
captured /hips, and of several others since, are found
to have been caused by the hardfhipa they had fuf
fered, and the Want of medicines and accommodati
on, which had been destroyed in the unprincipled
ravages committed ; and those other cases which
have happened, have not excliifivcly aiifen from
climate ; for it is remarkable that, during the rainy
season, the Company loft none of their servants.
The Nova-Scotia blacks have been remarkably
healthy, and their births have far exceeded their
deaths. This account is up Co the 31ft of Octo
ber, 1795.
The lirft ship, carrying any material quantity of
trade gaods, which failed since the Colony was
plundered by the French, had not arrived at the
date of the lad dispatches. A fa&or) has been
raised at a small expence on the river Rio Pongas,
twelve leagues from the river's mouth, which af
fords an easy introduction to ths capital of the
Foolahs and is under protedlion of that King.
Some delay and, difficulty occurred in forming the
factory, by the opposition and mifreprefentatious of
the neighbouring European traders, and Dy th# uni
ted efforts of the (lave traders ofall the nearer and
some of the more distant parts, to induce the na
tives to remove it; but a palaver was held, in which
the Chiefs gave credit to the good designs of the
Company. From the call for various articles of
eommerce, those already shipped are expe&ed to
come to a good market; and a second (hip has been
freighted accordingly.
The Company's preferrt property is dated to con
fid of a capital in securities of 60,0001. in trade
26,0001. and of Stock 011 the Colony o£ 9,0c01.
making a total of 95,000!.
Many of the Nova Scotians, since the French
attack, have been diiven from the coast through
fear, and have established more distant farm lots,
which had been before neglefled. These lon on
the mountains are the belt, the others generally
good ; and the cultivation of fifty new farms has
been begun. Premiums of forty dollars have been
given as encouragements to fettle within a mile
from Freetown. The Company's cultivations on
the Bulam (hore have not advancejL_for_w«u..o£-
goods, Jcc. Coffee and cinnamon plants, ginger,
and several other articles, have been obtained by a
vessel freighttned from the Colony to the island of
St. Thomas in April 1795. Tropical feeds and
plants from the Weft-Indies have been loft by the
captureof Weft-India vessels ; and the vessel Prant
Hatch, containing many valuable articles from the
King's garden at Kew, was entirely destroyed by
the French.
The conduct of the Nova-Scotians has been very
refpe&ful ; they ha»e voluntarily offered to erect
some works for the future defence of the cclony ;
they have elected tithing men and hundredors; their
young persons have been put apprentices to English
artificers ; they have built boats, and began to car
ry on a trade by barter' with the neighbouring
head men or chiefs: their children are at school in
the colony.
A delegate from some free blacks in Rhode Isl
and arrived at Sieria Leone last year, and terms for
receiving twelve families, certified to be of good
morals, have been fettled to encourage their emi
gration ; each family is to have ten acres of land
on the Bulam fide of the river for a farm lot, and
an eighth of an acre for a town lot also, for which
they are to pay a quit rent, and conform to
laws of the Colony.
Two baptist missionaries have failed from Eng
land in one of the Company's Yhips, wishing to fet
tle under some African Chief ; and other persons
properly qualified have also failed for religious in
ftru&ors j a few Englilh families have also failed
for the purpose of going directly to the capital of
the Foolah kingdom, 300 miles itiland, and to fet
tle there ; their exper.ces ar<t borne by a voluntary
fubfeription in England, and ■ they allowed a free
pafiage to Sterra Leone. .
The disadvantages under which the Colony has
laboured have been greaj, arid the expences consi
derable ; nevertkele's; every year's experience fecms
to have added to the of its establishment
and future prosperity, and to have afforded freth
proof of the pratticability of cultivating and civi
lizing the Continent of Alyca !
May 11,1.796. A PROPRIETOR.
SALFORD, May 10.
A person, lately a resident of Salford, a few
evenings ago, having faqrificed a little too freely to
the jolly God, in a viiit to a few of his old neigh
bours, took his departure for home at a very late
(or rather early) heur in the morning : having a
bout three miles to walk, and very often losing the
balance of power' ere he had attained half the way,
at last he fell near the moutii of a coal-pit, about
half a mile from his house ; here the leaden hand
of Morpheus lay so heavily upon him, that he soon
forgot h.s danger and himfelf in a found sleep. Not
long had he lain there before the black gentlemen
. of the pit arrived, to resume their daily task ; these
wicked wags (four or five in number) fodn agreed
to fallen the sleeping vifitar.r into th«ir bafltet, and
introduce hiai into tlieir internal regions jthis was
done with all poffiblc fafctv ; an'd he ,va.s fe n j f
in the subterraneous regions. A figure of « blsc
ugly boy whs placed by his lide to watch him dos
ly when he (hould awake, wl.'icli, when he did an
opened his eyes upon the ohjeft, proceed an e'flv<
upon his mind, body and face, that emphatically d,
elared (for he vvas fpsechlefs with h orror i j,
thought himfelf really among the dlmn'd, a„§ t h; ;
this lad was no more nor left than one of ti
D 's Imps. As soon as he was fjirly awakt
the sweat running from his brow with horror ti
lad exelaimed, "On ! wh.t you're corns a; la'ft at'c
you! Aye, aye, I'il fetch my Meatier, the eaw :
one, to you." Accordingly the lad ran, and foo;'
brought, not one, but four 01 five old ones, who
bilrft forth with horrid diffinant voices " Oli
what he's her?, is he ? aye, we're been expecting
him this Jong time part ! Come, come, confefsyoir
finsdiieaiy, or elfc you go !« o a bed of btimlton
in a momefit:" Here they prtrcloeetf a black booi
in which they pretended to regifier what h •
(hould confefs. As soon as he could speak, h
begg'dfor God's fake'that they would have mercy
011 him, and he would tell all his offences, thong,
he solemnly declared, they were very few. H« '
then said, that he had got drunk with fomefriend:
in Salford, and fell afkepoH his way home, whe
he supposed that a cart had gone over him and kill'
him. " Aye, aye, that w« know very well,"—
roar'd the demons, —" But your fins ! yourlks !'
" Why, cries the trembling b-ulprit,—" 'Trs true
me and one Thomas did once (leal a pig,"
" a pig did you ? come, as it was only one ol
the fwinifli Aultitude, we'll forgive him for that.'
—" But what else ?" " Why, once i did rob ul<
Mary —— —'s garden of some of her codlings.''
" Well but," fays Bclzebub the chief, " What fe
male connections have you had ? Have you neve
ruined any wenches !" " No ; God knows I neve
have ; 'tis true, I once had connection with a younj
woman, but who turned out nought, ,or I wouh
have married her. " Who was (he ?" cried tin
leading fiend : •' Her name was Peggy •'
Here three of the black gentlemen buifl out into i
roar of laughter ; but the leading »ne, who pu
the queltion,~ was chop-failen, as fcloueft Peggj
turned out to l?e no other than-his own dearly be
loved wife ! ! ! it is unnecessary to add, that th«
culprit was again basketed, and restored to the
light of Heaven, to the mutual fatisfadtion of hot!
the Devil and the Damned.
LONDON, May 28.
Philip Parry Price Middleton was tried on
Thursday in the Court of King s Bench, for en.
deavoring to entice artificers to emigrate to Ame
rica.' It appeared he was a of property, and
had engaged 1500 persons for that purpose. He
was found guilty. The penalty is 500!. and one
year's imprisonment.
A most (hocking scene was witnessed yeflerday
in Dean-street, Eaft-Smithfield. The inhabitant!
of an houfeof ill fame in that (treet, having made
an lialty decampmdnt eaily in morning, fome
of the neighbors, whose suspicions weifc excited by
this sudden movement, went into the house ; and,
on going up stairs, 1 one of the rooms,
the body of a weii drclTed young man, suspended
by the neck from the bed poll, with his hands pini
oned slofe to his fit e, by alt out cord. TV ■ i"¥~
"petratois ot mis norna att wefeTnTlai.ily traced and
apprehended. The unfortunate young man was a
(hip mailer ; and is reported to have had about him
a considerable sum of money.
Last Wednrfday as some men were attempting
to recover a but!, : which had fallen into a draw
well upwards of an hundred feet deep, belonging
to the New Inn (tables, in North-flicet, Brighton,
they drew up, by means of their g*a; p!e-hooj;s,
which had fixed in one of the thighs, the body of
a young woman, well known at Biighton, where
■(he had for some time pall fubfiCkiT on t:.e~f<ecariout
and sorry wages us pro(litutL6n. It is not howe
ver even fufpe6ted that she put a period to her own
existence, but believed that (he vvas dabbed wjdi »
bayonet and thrown into the well; for in her Tide
there appeared a wound evidently given with fnch
atl indiument, and on her head there was a large
contusion. The Coroner's jury fat on her bod)
and delivered i;i their veididt Wilful Murder againlt
persons unknown.
In one of the causes tried lately before Lord
Kenyon, at Guildhall, wherein Counlel contended
that, two witnefle.s were not entitled to crcdit, on
account of-kerpmg itrfamouig"3m£7Tt Ij> houses, his
Lordship said, " I am sorry I did not know i'oon
er that ftich witnesses were to be brought forward,
for I have in my pofTefiion a-lift, containing a great
number of persons of that description, sent to me
l>w the unfortunate Mr. Weftan ; and, I am sorry
to fay, that amocg the number is the came ot a
pet foil of very high rank."
In the career of copqueft, the French have nat
attempted to revolutionize Italy ; and we find that
our minillers persevere in their scheme of exciting
civil war in the interior of France. What (hall
we fay of this conduct ? Is Jacobinism transferred
from the Rue St. Honoreto Downing-ftreet ?,Cer
tainly the proclamation whicn the gentleman who
calls himfelf the Prince .de Bouillon has put forth,
inviting ( Frencji officers to fly to the Itandard of
royalifm in Brittany, is calculated to piovoke the
fury of fraternization. Civil war is the Jacobinism
of Royalty, as Revolution is of Repubhcanifm ;
and by an attempt so impolitic as well asfcandaloul,
it cannot be denied that we juftify the French in
turning all the force of their indignation against
England.
From a Paris paper.—Tranflatcd for the Aurora.
Defcarles defended by Lalande.
To the Editor of the Journal of Paris.
College of France, 6th Prairial.
Men of letters indignant at the speech of citizen
Mcrcier (one of the Council of Five Hundred,
who opposed the motion for depositing the afhesot
Defcartcs in the Pantheon) againil Descartes have
written against Mcrcier, but they 'have have not
yet written for Descartes. Give roe room for two
sentences in the name of the universe and of po!le
rity.
Descartes is or.e of those creative geniuses thai
do honor to his age er.d country he fr it took iotccontemplation t'ue ensemble of the nniverfe> in order
to (lifcover its mictianifin, and explain its formation
and motions ; he is the hrit who comprehended the
principles and effe&sof matter and motion ; heap
plied them to the heavens and to the earth, toman
and to animals ; be lirft had thole philosophical
ideas to which Bacon could not aspire for want of
a knowledge of geometry.
Descartes is also inventor in mathematics, by the
application of algebra to geometry ; he opened a
new career, which Newton entered ; but Newton
had rivals in of the calculation of in
finities and the law of attrition ; and DeL-artcs
had none in his.
These two data would be susceptible of a
lengthy developement ; but those who are acquaint
ed with the hillory of sciences need them not, and
those ignorant of it could not underdand me. It
is enough that I have hinted at the motives of the
uoiyerfal indignation which the injury done public
ly to the greatell man France ever produced, has
excited tnroughont the whole Republic.
LALANDE.
.—-—■ in
Philadelphia,
TUESDAY EVENING, Adgpit 16.
It appears by the Baltimore papers that there are
several arrivals at that port from England-, but those
•we have received this day do not contain any intelli
gence confirmative sf the report refpecling a cejation of
ho/lililus on the Rhine.
From the AURORA.
ExtraH of a letter, dated Bourdeaux, June 23.
Extraordinary couriers inform us this moment,
that the preliminaries of peace with the Emperor
arefigned. He has given up the fortrefs of May
€nce as a pledge of his sincerity and readiness to
accede to the conditions that France (hall please to
di&ate to liim. Indeed this is in no manner furpri
ling, because his treops rcfufed to fight and chose
t rither to surrender prisoners of war, as h»s been
tic cafe in several late engagements on the Rhine
wiese we have gained the most signal victories and
mide a number of prisoners.
eXzSTTH OF THE UNITED STATIS MARINE LIST.
P HILADELP H I A, Augujl 16.
Th. Cleopatra, American Iniiaman, had Jailed from Bengal
for Vfbop, previajly to the departure of the Major Pinckney. See
marihc-liji in our la/}.
The Triumph merchantman from New-TTori, arrived at
London the 4th if 'June.
Trx Adeiona, Prfcott, for New- Hamf-Jhire, left Gravfend
June 7.
The John, Caflles, and Jenny, Chauncey, Jrom A em-Tori,
•4nd Minerva, Hall, from Virginia, passed Grave/end June J.
The Nancy, Ma key, for BoJlon, failed from Gravefend
June-3,
Ship Andrew, Makins, of this port, arrived at St. Übei on
the I Otn of June, and was condemned there, having fuffered Jo
much during a hard gale off Cape Or legal, as to he unfit for fur
ther service. .
The Andrew was one of the oldeH Jhips belonging to the port oj
Philadelphia.
' The Carteret packet arrived at Falmouth in 17 days Jrom Neiu
York.
ARRIVED,
Brig Hannah, Odlin, Aux-Cayes 30
Schooner Duly Ann, M'Namara, Virginia 4
Nancy, James, ' j 0!
Cleared.
Schconer Friendfbip, Matthews, Thomaflon
Brooklyn, Baker, $ Ncw-Tork
Patience, IVebb,
Sloop Nattay, Levinus,
Ship Prosperity, Graig, ' London.
Ship Active, Blair, from St. Uhes,aud Tcneriffe, 3 hritrs and
ifchooncr, were in fight of N cwca/IL yefierday at 11 o'clock".
Brig , Capt MidJUtonfrom Jacquemel, lafi Jrom Ha
vannah puffed New-ea/Ue yjlerday.
Schooner Minerva Jrom Havannab is arrived at the Fort.
Arrivals at New-Tori /lugujl 15.
Ship Atalania, Holbroob, Liverpool
Brig James, Trowbridge, St. Croix
James, ITafon, Guadeloupe
Schooner T'jio Brothers, Kimlerly, - St. Croix
S »M, Port-au-Prince
Sloop Mary, At water, New-Providence.
• ■ Cleared.
Sloop Diana, White, Bourdeaux
m fP' SuMiri ' St. Thomas.
The Ship Commerce, eapt. Grimes, in 86 days from Bri/101,
, fpole the following vessels' on his paffagc.
Mty 27, Spoke a brig from North Carolina, bound to Fal
mouth, 31 days out, in long. 45, 46, andlat. 48, 11, all well
cm board.
Jut* 30, Spoke the brig Friendship of fid from Bojlon, days
out, Jtln Good ridge, majler, bound to Bourdeaux.
July 6, Spoke afeboonerfrom Havre-de-Grace, bound to New-
Tori, 78 days out, uli tvtll, in long. 69, 30, W. tat. 48,30.
July 28, Spoke tbe fitp Thomas of Portland, David Alien,
tnajier, 63 days out from Liverpool, with a number of Pfjjenpcrt,
Supplied ibern -with beef and pork, &c.
Spoke tbe brig Eliza, of andfrom Philadelphia, fix days out,
all ivell.
Arrived the brig Julia, cqpt. AuJtin, 33 days from Jamaica. I
Spoke the brig I.til, Smith,from Kingflon, jam. bound to PVa-
Jkington, who lofl her main topgallanUmaJls by lightning.
IVas bearded by a Frenchpri-vateer, *who called b erf elf a French
man fitted *ut at Charlejlon—fb'e tvas aJJoop of 4guns and 45 men.
Me came onboard and examine ibis papers, robbed us of about 50
gallons of rum. I: be ivas called the Lynx, commanded by a man
called Mitchell, an American, manned ivith all nations, and af
ter taking the mm, hauled her ivind', and flood to thefoutbioard.
Spoke the brig Greenwich, from Newport, bound to Havan
nab,, all ivelf.
Spoke the fnotv Hannah, of Newport, from Africa, full of
slaves, bound to Havajinab, in company with the brig Green
wich.
Spcke aJb 'tp from Liverpool found to Philadelphia, blowing
frefo could not learn her name.
CHARLESTON, August 2.
Ytflerday arrived the ship Federaiiii, Pratt, Lon
' 49 days ; fchocner Bftfey, Huntington, Trinidad,
23 days ; schooner Cato, Mardin, St, Auguitine, 4
days.
The ship Harmony, Kollock, from thir port, was
Joft on the Nore of the cargo saved.
lhefhip Major Pinckney performed her voyage
from Loudon to Bengal, and back to Hamburgh, in a
little more than ten months.
The (hip Pacific, Kennedy, from Surinam, bound to
Amsterdam, was taken and carried into Portsmouth ;
jt waj luppofcdihe would bexondemned.
The Lucy, DaUon, iailed for this port, from
Gravefend, on the 2d of June.
BALTIMORE, August 11.
ENTERED
Ship Thomas, ■ 1 >», Liverpool '
-Anthony Mangin, Sandford, Bremen <
Ardent, Jinith, ' Jeremie
Brigßatavia, Hufeman, Bremen
Lily, Brown, St. Bartholomews
Harriet, Story, Limerick 1
Captain Cothran had not the good fortune to fall in with {
thte Conc©rdc» {
> BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
NEW-YORK, August 15.
By Captain Hubbell, of the (loop E«iJ.;avour,
j. 18 days from St. Thomas's, it appears, that the
French frigate that was engaged with the two
_ British sloops of war, was La Pcnfee, of 44 guns,
which had arrived at St. Thomas'# in a ihattered
i i condition, previous to Captain H'» leaving that
v port.
The French Hoop of war Scipio, from New-
York and a cruise, has arrived at St. Thomas's.
1 By the Urig Hannah is* Mary, from Bri/101.
j LONDON, May 26.
Lord Frederick Towuihend is now at the house
. of the Marquis his father. The derangement <rf
, his intellects has been proved beyond all doubt.
_ t A great personage experiences the mott lively af
fliction, in confluence of the unhappy ftatc of
things in a certain great house in Pall M*ll ; ail as
. S.ition in which every good heart mult feelingly
, sympathize.
We hear a celebrated Law Lord has been for
bidden a great house, for having 1 at the request of
a stranger, offered his advice and mediation, which
.was reje&ed with every 1 mark of indignation. On
f, this occasion, the Noble Lord has written a very
refpeftful, though spirited letter to the gentleman
alluded to, lamenting what had happened. The
noble lord has since had a long interview with ano
ther high Personage, who is moll deeply affe&ed
, at what is passing.
r In refpe£t to the private hillory of family dif
■ putes, w< pass it by with silent regret. But what
) will the world fay of an intriguing woman in high
> life, who has been guilty of a treacherous breach of'
• trull, in breaking the seal of a letter committed to
! her care ? Slfc has violated the sacred confidential
1 communications bi'tween a daughter and her belo
: ved parent. She has sown the feeds of diffention
I between an husband and wife. She has infringed
the laws of hospitality, by committingan injury un
der the roof of a lady, who, fevering herfclf from
the ties of early life, placed a noble confidence in
the generous protection of a Briti/h peop!;.
May 31.
' Yesterday her Royal Highncfs the Princess of
' Wales took an airing in Hyde Park, where her re
, ception was highly .flatteringfrom all of people.
At half pall three her Royal Hlghnefs returned
I to Carlton Hqufis to dinner. The Princess was at
the Opera on the preceding evening, where her
• entrance and exit were narked with the warmed
t gratulations by a very larg* and polite audience.
The Princess of Wales is doubtless by thistifne
i convinced, that she, who is one day dellined to
1 grace the throne of Britain, can never, while ihe
perseveres in a line of condudl so truly exemplary,
r want friends and prote&ors, who will (helter her
from insult, and resent die injuries she may receive
from whatever quarter they may proceed.
The interett which the public takes in the dis
putes unfortunately existing in a ce'rtain Great Fa
mily, exceeds all credibility. It is the topic--of
conversation iif every company, and evety one pitiej
and execrates the different parties.
An elderly Lady, whose influence over the
Gentleman both before and since his marriage has
been matrer of astonishment, is said to have broken
open a letter written by the youn* bride to her
father, and committed to the care of a gentjeman,
who afterwards finding himfelf unable to go abroad,
returned it to the v house, where it fell into the
hands of the elderly Lady, and was opened. This
letter contained complaints against the hnfband's
ill tieatmenf, produced by the intrigues of the
elderly Lady-; and a knowledge of its contents, it
ieems, oecafioned an aggravated degree of ill usage
towards the Bride, till at lad (he consulted a cer
tain great Law Lord, refpedling her departure
from this kingdom, one of whom, now in no of
ficial Situation, offered his mediation, which was
rejected by the Husband, and his Lordship forbid
den the house. The husband, it is said, has not
spoken to his wife these three months.
Their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Dutchefs
of York are unremitting in their attention to the
Princefs.of Wales.
The polite and affectionate afiiduity of Prince
William of Gloucester to the fame lovely Princess,
bespeaks a reCUiude of judgment, as well as a ten
derness of nature.
On Monday evening as a Lady in her carriage
was going to Drury lane Theatre, (from the fimi
larity of her livery with that of a certain countess,)
(he was hided, and her servants covered with dirt,
before they could convince the mob of their mis
take.
It would cej-tainly be a very ineffaftual method ol
performing ajourney, to put one horse before, and
another behind a carnage ; but -h would be much
more than insffeClnal, to give the rein to a r'eftive
intraclicable horned bead, who, if you wanted to go
to St. James's, would probably go to Giles's.
However the King, may be wrongly accused of
promoting for eign IVar,yet he exerts every endea
vour for the edablifhment of damejlic Peace.
1 he Princess of Wales, who is a good claflic, on
feeing the Duchess of York, exelaimed with a ten
der sigh,
" Felix Andromache certo benenupta marrto."
Whilit the infamous Duke of Orleans was riot
ing in the lowed sensual pi'eafures, he was always
observed to (hew the greased refoeCt for his truly
refpetlabie Consort ; as if he endeavoured by this
external homage, to indemnify her in some measure
for the disgrace of being united with a man fd'uni
■vcrfally delpifed. Sjjch an ascendant does virtue
possess even over the mod depraved minds!
Lord Frederick Townfhend is a clergyman, and
has been two or threi times confined
toms of lunacy, one under DoCtor Willis. The
Marquis, his father, and other friends, were sent
for; but as in such cafe no bail could be taken by
the magistrates, he is committed to fafe cultody to
abide the of the laws of his country.'
June 2.
We are happy to hear that bis Majedy disap
proves, in the mod pointed terms,* of the recent
traifaftions nt Carlton house, and that he-speaks
.ia tctms of the llrongfft reprobation of every per- j
1 fonwho has hnd any co-cer:: iii tliofc; cruel,proj>
ceciiigi. The commendable perseverance ofLtfrd
I'htfow in his friendly admonitions, to
prouce the desired effsft, and ws heix-That a hap
s, PY (conciliation is about to between all
| • - v
of Wales appeared yesterday at
' on of the froTtKjffindows of Carlton house with
' hci iofaiit in her acggmpaiiied by Prince
Wiliamof Gloucester, whic'.i the populace prrc«iv
; ii>g crowded the Itreets for a onfidcrabic tijne,
repatedly manifesting by rapturouj btiffts of ap
plaife, their honed fympajhy and loyal admiration
of tie negledted amiable pirineefs.
Vediiefday arrived at Briitol the Ann, Copper
thwite, from Philadelphia, and George, Rulh,
fromSalem. Theie two veficlshave brought abtmt
. 212 c barrels of flour and Indian meal, and 780
barrtlt of rye meal, which will at this time prove
a feajunable fupply,tas the markets are on the rife,
. "1 confcquenee of the dry weather, which has
preynted many mills from working.
from tU London Gazette of May 28.
Admiralty-Office, May 28.
. Copy .of a letter from Capt. Thomas Freemantle,
of his Mnje/iy's Jhip Inconjlant, to Evan Ne
pean, £fq. dated rff Bajlia, /Spril 27.
Si*,
I have the honor of inclosing, far the informa
' tion of their Lordfiiips, the copy of a letter from
me to Sir John Jervis, Knight of the Bath.
' I am, See.
T. F. FREEMANTLE.
Incnnflant, at Sea, April 23.
1 hive the honour to inform you, that on the
19th, cruising near Tunis, I received account
that 1 French frigate had beer, seen off Cape Ma
bera, near Bon ; 1 therefore made fail for that
' place, and on the evening of the 20th perceived a
I fliip uadfr French colours at anchor on the coast,
which I went up to, & di-cfted to ftvike ; this was
pruce<itly complied with. She is called L'Unite,
a cor'ette ot 34 guns, and 218 men. The crew
1 lud/aade an attempt to set her on fire, ,but by the
ejections of Lieutenant Hutchinfori it was soon
I extinguished. Had the ship been of eqjal force
| vvith the Inconitant, I have every reason to believe
: it vould have afforded me another proof of the
I fpiit and (leadinefs of every officer and perfon'on
board the ship I command.
X am, &c.
T. F. FREEMANTLE.
S' r .J" Jervis, K. B. Admiral of the Blue,
and Commander-in-Chief, &c.
Admiralty-Office, May 3I. 11
Cosy of a letter from Captain N. Tomlinfon, comman
der as his Majefly's '/loop La Sujpfmte, to E-van
Nepean, Esq. dated Falmouth, May 28. *
St K,
I have the honor to acquaint you, for the informa
tien of my Lords Copamiffioneis of the Admiralty,
that being on a cruiie, in his Majefly's ship La Su In
fante, under my command, the Lizard bearing N. N.
E. diftancS 15 leagues, early yesterday morning we
difcovmred a tail, about 6 miles to windward) and im
mediately flood for her, and, after a chafe of 11 hours,
came up wirh her among the rocks between Ufliant
and the Main, Ihe having endeavoured to makfther
eicajie to Brert, through the palfage Le Four; but I
was enabled to cut her off by the superior failing of
riia -knftiiante. We engaged her ctofe on board for
half an hour, when ihe struck, and proves to be the
Revanche brig, Bermudas built, a remarkable fact
Sailer, pierced for 14 guns, mounting 12 long 4 pound
ers, and eighty-five chosen men, commanded by M.
George Henri Dravemait, Lieutenant de Vaifleau, an
old and experienced feainan. She was five days from
Havre< bound on a cruise, but had taken nothing.
I aVn particularly obliged to the officers and crew of
the Suffilante, for tlleir cool and determined conduct,
both in working and in fighting the sloop, when the
utmost exertions were necessary to prevent the enemy
from efcapjng, and to avoid the rocks by which we
were surrounded on a lee lhore.
I am happy to add that there was but one seaman
wounded on board the Snffifante. The Revanche
had two men killed and seven wounded. lam now
proceeding to Plymouth in company with the prize
and hope we (hall arrive there to night. I am, &c.
■Adm ra ty Office, May 31.
Extract of a Iftter from Commodore' Sir John War
ren to Evan Ncpean, Esq. dated La Pomone,
at Sea, May 25.
I beg you will inform their lotdfhips, that I this
day captured la Fantatie, a republican privateer,
c?pper-bottomed, mounting 14 guns and 75 men,
front Morlaix, on acruife. She had feeen only one
day from the above port, and had no; taken any
thing.
Capttin Pratt of the Federal]ft, in 49 days from Len
der., has broughtpapers to the ioth of June, from
ivtich the following articles are extratled :—
PARIS, June 3.
Conditions of the atmiftice concluded between the
commander in chief of the army of Italy, and
M. Frederick, commander of the Eft, plenipo
tentiary of the duke of Modena.
1 he Commander in Chief of the army of Italy
grants'to the Duke of Modena an armiftiee (that
lie may have time to Tend to Paris for the purpose
of obtaining from the Executive Directory a defi
nitive peace) upon the following conditions, to
which M, Frederick, commander of Eft, and ple
nipotentiary of the Duke of Modena, fubmitshim
felt, and which he promises to fulfil, viz.
t. I lie Duke of Modena (hall pay to the French
Republic the sum of livres, French cur
rency., of which three millions shall immediately be
paid in the hands of the treasurer of the army ;
two millions, within 15 days, to M. Balbi, the
banker of the Republic at Genoa, and two milli
ons £ve hundred livres into the hands of the fame
banker, at Genoa, within one month.
2. The Duke of Modena will besides furnifh to
the amount of J,JOO,COO livres in provisions, pow
der ;nd other warlike ammunition, such as the Com
mander in Chief {hall designate, as well as the
times and places when and where the payments
(hali be made.
3. The Duke of Modena ftiall be obliged to de
livei twenty paintings to be chosen from his gal
lery or his dominions, by citizeas named for that
putpofe.
■>r Upon the foregoing Conditions, the troops (if
the Republic who stall cmfs the dominions of the
Duke of Modcna, (hall fu'jeft them to norequiti
tions ; and will pay tor whatever pruvifions they
may want.
(Signed) FREDERICK,
Commander of Eft.
BUONAPARTE. -
MILAN, May 14.
This day the tree of liberty wa» -planted with
great ceremony ou the Square near the Cathedral.
The artival of the French army was hotnly ex
pewsd; the municipality ants orher adminiftiativc
bodies wentja eaitfequence to meet the Republi
cans at the gate of Rome. About 11 o'clock a
corps of troops, led on by General Maffeiia, ar
rived and took pofl-ffianof the capital.
CORSICA, May 20.
Twenty-two diltri&s are in a itate of infurredu
on. Mr. North, the fertetary of Hate, publifhcd a
manifefto, threatening the insurgents wiih coercive
measures. The latter frequently exclaim, •' Long
live the king and general Path ; but down with the
viceroy." When they appeared befara Ajaccio,
above eighty discharges of cannon were made upon
them. As they deilroyed the mills and the viney
ards near the place, belonging to the enemies of Pa
oli, the towns of Ajaccio has fines been under the
neeeffity of being supplied from tjie royal maga
zines.
PARIS, May 31.
Pichegru continues.in Paris. $ir Sidney Smith,
resides in Paris ; a guard is ftttfioned at his door;
his Secretary, Mr. Wright, and a servant are with,
him.
Accounts were on Thursday morning received
at Havre, that the Chouans about Aifigny, and
other placed, who were supposed to have been en
tirely suppressed, have renewed their depredations.
June 4..
Tjie official and circumstantial detail of the num
ber of prifonerg made fmce the 23d of Germiual,
(12th April) the day when the campaign was
opened in Italy, to the 23d Floreal following, (12th
has been publilhed, amouir.ir.g to eleven
thousand eight hundred and eip'.ity fix men. It ia
attested by the general of aivilion, Berthier, head
of the ftaff under the orders of general Buonaparte.
The Treasure of Milan is the greatest of any city
in Italy, except that of our Lady of Loretto. It is
certain that the detail of golden chalices, crosses, re
liques, fiatues of gold, will not be objects of mer«
amuferaent—lt is a dazzling mass.
Thirty-fix offices are open in Paris for the exchange
of mandats against affigriats.
We have already received a lift of the piilures and
manuscripts sent to France l»y the army ot' Italy. The
feleilion has been made with great care. Thole taken
at Milan are now on their way to Paris.
Among the manuscripts may be seen a Virgil, for
merly belonging to Petrarch, with notes in his own
hand writing.
BALTIMORE, August 12:
Yesterday arrived Ship Thomas, Cap:. Alden (of
Portland Mafiachufetts) in 71 days from Liverpool ;
fpoke,June zo, lat 42, 28, long. 29. ship Harriot, Cap
tain Daddy, from London to New York, oilt 28 days,
all well—July 25, in lat 39, 46. long. 63, fpokt the
ship Commerce, Grimes, from Bristol, bound to New-
York, out 68 days, all ell—July 30, spoke brig ,
Captain Uutneriord, from KenneUeck, bound to Alex
andria. .
Capt. A. was boarded on Friday evening la ft, at J
o'clock, eight leagues E. S. E. from Cape Henry by
the Britjft frigate Prevoyante, Capt. Wemyfs, who,
and his officers, behaved very insolently to him, in
breaking open'hishatches, prtffing his hands, &c. (See
Captain Alden'sproteft in thij day's paper.) The fri
gate Thetis, Capt. Cochran, was in company with the
Prevoyante.
Captain Cochran told Captain J!den, that he had
not seen the French frigate Concord (which was ye-
Jierday reported to have been taken by the Thetis,) but
that Jke had escaped him and got out to sea. This be
ing on Friday the $th injl. it is hardly possible the much
talked of engagement fhpuld have taken place, and the
news of the ij/ue reached- New- York, by Monday the
&th, which is the date of the letter that announces it,
especially as the wind has been in an unfavorable quar
ter ever fmce. .
Tpe iatefl papers brought hy the Thomas, are to the
I%th May, which is not Jo late by 18 day* as those re
ceived by the late arrivals at NcuWork and Boflon ;
any thing, however, that may appear worth insertion,
shall be given to-morrow.
From the Log-book of the ftlip Thomas, Captain David
Alden, from Liverpool.
I, David Alden, mailer of the (hip Thomas, beloreia*
toJPorthnd, in the fiate of Maflachufetts, failed frcm Li
verpool on the ad day of June last, bound for Baltimore,
in the (late of Maryland. Nothing material happened
'till the 10th of July, when, in lat 42, 13, long. 61, 26
being under clofe-recfed top-fails, the wind began to blow
in heavy squalls from the westward—about 1 P.M took in
top-fails and courses—at 1 P.M set the courses and clofe
reefed top-fails—at 8 P.M. a heavy fqaall took us sudden
ly, which laid the ship down very much and fjplit the three
top-faiis The wind continuing to blow very heavy 'till
i P. M. obliged us to lie by under mizen stay-sail, fmce
which the fliip has proved leaky. On the *oth, the wind
blew heavy from S. W. to W. S. W. which at « P. M, o«.
bliged us to take in mainsail and fore topsail at 5 P.' M.
took i.i ail but mizen and mizen flayfail and lay by it
blowing very strong, attended with hunder, lightning
ami rain. Gn the 6th of August, Cape Henry "bearing W.
N. W. about 8. leagues diltance, was brought to by the:
Prevoyante, captain Wcmyfs, an Englilh man of war j
the captain sent his boat and took four of the (hip's crew,
5 paff.ngers and myfelf aboard the Prevoyante. Soon af
ter he sent his boat again and brought my mate with hU
cloaths, ordering a number of men on board the Thomas,
to search for more people, and after detaining us 'till 7
P. M. put my mate, two people, one paflenger and myfelf
on board the Thomas, aud kept two of my people and
teur passengers.
When v/*- came on board, we found the mam hatches
broke open, also the scuttles fore and aft, and one calk of
bottled Porter, of which a part was taken and much other
damage done.
From the bad weather and contrary winds which wew
have experienced, and having the hatchways and scut'
ties broke open and plundered, we have reason to judge
there is damage and lol's in the cargo.
David Aldep, Matter.
Paul Dyer,
David Lavis,
Ezekiel Jumper,
John Wallace.
INFORMATION
TS given daily of the drawing of tbe WASHINGTON
1 LOTTERY, at the Office
No. 147 cheftmtJlreet,
between Fourth and Fifth ftrects. Also, where Tickets
may yet be had. Aug. 15. c 0
_ '■£$* The Eleventh day's drawing is arrived.PR(>Py/f»ALS, j
(By William Cqbbl j i , oppc'ke CLiiil Church, Piiila-
celphia, for by fub*ciip;ion,
i he History o[ Jacobinism ;
Cits CRIMES, CRUELTIES and PERFIDIES,
OMl J RISING an Inquiry into the manner of dilic.ni
natmg, under the appearance of Puiiosoi-av and
VißTcir, principles which are equally subversive of Or
per, Virtue, R.elig;dn, Liberty and Happinefj.
% WILLIAM PLAYFAIR,
Author of the CommefeiaLjjjdPoliiical Alias, &c.
With an Appendix, —
ET PETER PORCUPINE,
Shewing the clnfe connexion which has ever fubfiltei
between the Jacobins at Paris and the Democrats in the
United States of America.
conditions.
I. This new, entertaining work, which
is at or.ee a history of Jacobipifm and a complete history
of the Ffemh revolution down to the cild of 1795, *"iil
confitl of two volumes, oilavo, each containing; about
300 page*, ltihallbc well printed, on a now type and
fide paper.
11. The price of each volume, bound in boards, will be
One Dollar and a Quarter, paid for on delivery; and to
Hon fubl'cribers, a Dollar and a Half.
111. A» soon as a fufficient number of copies lhall be
fubferibedfor, the work will be put to the press, and fin
ilhed as expeditioufly as a Uriel attention to neatness and
accuracy will admit of.
*.* Subscriptions taken by the publisher, and the prin
cipal Booksellers of Philadelphia; Messrs. Spotfwoodand
Nan c red cos Boston ; Mr. Rivington of New-York; Mr.
Rice of Baltimore ; Messrs. Pritchard and Davidfon of
Ri htnond, Virginia; and Mr. Young of Charleston,
South Carolina. Aug. 12
Salt Petre.
A few tons of excellent
EAST-INDIA SALT-PETRE,
TOR SALE BY
Samuel Ereck, ]un.
• Aug. 9. eo6 Rofs's Wharf.
Treasury of the United States.
NO 1 !CE is hereby given to all persons who are or
I;*ay be Creditors of the United States, for any funis
of the FutrUd Debt, or Stock, bearing a prefenl interfl of fix
per centum per annum. , -
i ft, That pursuant to an A<ft of Congress passed on the
aßth day of April, 1 intitledan ait in addition to an
ail, intituled " An a<3 making further provision for the
support of public credit, and for the redemption ef the
public debt, 1 ' the said debt or stock Will be reimbursed and
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be made on the last days of March, June and Septem
«' ber for the present yejir, and from the year one thousand
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou
" sand eight hundred & eighteen inclufive,at the rate of
" one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
V Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of
" December for the present year, and from the year one
41 thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
" one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at
" the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be maae on the last
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
"" dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
" quate, according to the contrail, for the final redemp
" tion of the said flock."
ad. All diftinition between payments on account of
Inters/1 and Principal being thus aboliihed by the eftablilh
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement above de- f
scribed, it has become necessary to vary accsrdingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; th- public
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
is eftablilhedfor, all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that
I <f
do make, conflitute and appoint
"f my true and A* ful At
torney, for me, andin my name, to receive the dividends which are,
or Jhall he payable according to law, on the (here dcfcribing the
<>ock) finding in my name in the hooks of (here defcribmg the
* loks of the Treasury or the Commissioner of Loans,
where the stock is credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) wit's power also an attorney or titter
nies unit- him ,for that purpose to male and[ubflitute,andto do all
lain ful ails rerjnifitcfor rtfc&ing tbepremfes, hereby ratifying and
confirming ail that my said Attorney or hisfibfiitute,fbaU lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof
In Witness hereof / have hereunto set my Hani and Seal the
day of in the year
1 Sealed and Delivered
in prfence of,
BE IT KNOWN, that on the'' day of
. lefore meperfonally came
within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be
bis ail and dred.
In tejlimony whereof I lave hereunto set my Hand and ejjix
*d Seal the day and year lafl aforefaid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions
from tfee Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
1 rcafnrcr of the United States.
7"'y rotf.ny,
Treasury Department, Jtugujl 3, 175)6.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
TN pursuance of an ail of Congress, passed on the 18th
JL day of May, 1796, entitled "An ail providing « for
the sale ot the lands of the United States, in the Territo
ry 1101 th weft of the river Ohio, and above the mouth of
Kentucky river, that the feilions or lots of land descri
bed in the annexed schedule, lying in the seven ranges of
townftnps, which were forveyed in' pursuance of an ordi
nance of Congress, passed on the twentieth day of May
.n the year one thousand seven hundred and ekhty-five!
will be exposed for sale at Public vendue, in thitown ol
Pittjburgh 1a Pennsylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
oaober next and thenceforward, from day to day until
the firft day of December enfuuig, unless the said lots lhall
lie sooner fold, in the manner, and on the terms and con.
ditions herein after mentioned, to wit:
ill. The said feilions or lots fhalj be fold under the di
reitkm ef the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter
ritory, and such person as the President of the United
States ranyfpecially appoint for that purpose.
»d. The said feilions or lots ihall be fold to the hi ? heft
bidder,but ro (ale can be made for less than two dollars
per acre of the Quantity of land contained in vach lot or
iftftien.
3. The highest bidder as before mentioned, must depo
sit at the time of sale, one twentieth part of the purchase
money, in the hands of such person as the President of the
United States lhall appoint to attend the sale* for that pur
pose, which will be forfeited, if a moiety of the sum bid,
including the said twentieth part, lhall not be paid witflin'
thirtydays from the time of sale.
4th. Upon payment ofa moiety of the porchafe money
n the manner before mentioned, the purchaser wiil be
entitled to one year s credit for the remaining moiety ;
an J lhall receive from the Governor «r Secretary of the
Western Territory, and the person who lhall be appointed ft
ky the President of the United States, to dire<a the sales.a 1!
tMtificite describing the lot or f.-dioh purchased.and de- jr
daring thefuni paid on account, the balance remaining due p;
the time when such balance becomcs payable, and that' v,
the trhek land rtssrein mentioned, will be forfeited, if the | b.
1 ' Cd.l balance is not then paid ; hut if the said balar.v (hall
a- !>?&lyJirchargtd,l»y to the'Jrsafrer of
the C/Mi-d Statcs,«t! » purchafiir ot- his affiance orolhcr
t legal rcpi ,< «i'tativ'c, Siall' he entitled to a patent Ir the
) said lai!ds,.cn'!rt» producing to the Secretary of Stat a re
ceipt fur bal.tnee ondorfed upor. th: certificatd-'-But
ii- if any purchaser ih„H tnalte payment of fht, wijo'o o the
id purchase money, at the time when th»r payment o the
r- firft moiety is direiled to be mnif, 15 v.,i be cntitlecto a
t rTT T 7 - 1 " the part for which acre
ditJjMrnffionzi-d to Be vivsa ; and his patent lhall b im
* mediat"V iffaeJ.
Given Linger'mv hand at Philadelphia, the da- and
year aoovc mentieiied.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary us the Treaary
let -
Schedule of fetfions of ti/wnjhlps, or fraSi'trialparti
h •of toiunjh 'tps, to be fold at Piitjburgh, in pufunrict
y of the 6ti feclion of an -aft f Cor.greft, p <7ed on
J1 the 18/ A day of May, 1 796.
Q -Ij • •
M 'w 2 Woo « tr> < *
| L. rS o C» .-5
0 O O ©u O O
0 • O • <5 Q ' I
01 * O H O m
£; I t
ill Range. 6thTown(h:p .1 6th
j ill Towulhip. Bai2p>4o eachl ill Ti>*vnfhip.
48 56j 14 640' 17 3 1 20
29 256 95 17820 640 eaiii j 18 1270
1 30 250 75 25336 640 e.ich , ii gSO
34 240 90 BthTownftip. I 2 2 1(6 40
f 35336 64c each 3af4j64cfcach 23 427
, 2d Township t7a2o,6.toeach 24 641
19 1 40 23 1640 27 ij] 80
»o 170 70 25a30j6<0each 28a3o!64qeach
21 185 33336'640each j33 [58
22 2( '30 iothTownfhip.'34336 640(-'ach
25 488 80 ia2 P4O each 2d Towrihip.
a6a27 64oeach each 1 126
28 560 172201640 each 2 440
29 551 60 23336,640 each 3 448
30 i2th.Townftiip. 4 456
31-36 640 each iai4 64c each 5 1464
4thTown(hip. i7a2o.64oeach 6 472
19 64 233361640 each 7 1340
W 4thRrNGE. Bai4 640 each
3 L 7< ° iftTownfhip. x 7 aj °64oea:h
27 36 , . v 23336 64o!eadi
31332 64oeach 4 3 ? 3d To-vnlhip,
33 616 9 ?36 50 P
34 445 20 3 «40 2 1 4?8 j
35 222 50 34 , , 3 4861
36 16 20 each 3 A
s thTowi (hip. 4 4 ?4|
6 139 * 6s 6 °, 6 cio 1
y_ . * 3a6 K 1 ,
12 479 30 , 7314 640 each
17 304 15 or i 17320 640 each
252 £ 9312 So each 6 4 oeacl
2 3 45° 75 ' , /, jthTownfliip.
24 640 3 35 1 , lg
l 9 184 14 40 2
36 640 3dTown(hip. 4 540
= iai4 640 each j J '
2d Range. 17220 64cjeach
iftTownlhip. 23336 640 each 731464° "ch
28 | 7120 sthT ownfhip. *7320 64c each
34 ! 6lje lai4 6 4 o|each ?3. a each
3d Town (hip. t7a2o 640' each ' "(hip.
24ai6 640 -acli 23336 640 each 1 s*^"
/ 28 499 16 7thTown(hip. ® 57' 40
29 640 132 640 each 3 57°
640 each 537 640' each 4 6c
4thTown(hip. 12313640 each 5 '93
11 it 40 18319640 each 01
397 5° 25 640 7314 640 each
J 3 5 1 5° 30336 640 each *732 c 64c each
15 27 50 9 thTown(hip. *3336 640 each
16 259 20 1 ai4'64o each Townlhip.
17 5*4 17320 64oeach lal 4o4oeach
18 640 23336 640 each '7?io64oeaeh
19 635 rithTownfhip. »3336640 each
20 584 80 iai 4 6 4 o!each llthl o^vufinp
21 636 21 17300640 each lai 4|o4oeaca •
226 64c eaeh 23 336 640 each each
sthTownfhip. i3thTownlhip. 2 3 a 36i640 each
5 636 iai4 640 each ownfhip.
6a7 64c each 17 320640 each I ai< w4c|each
a 3 64c .-ach 1333664 c each I 7 a2c 64ofeach
64c each L 1 = *3 a 30 640 £3ch
32436 64c "ach
7thTownlhip. r ° wnfhl P' iai4|64ojeach
3 1640! 1 4>o l7a2o64oeach
BthTown(hip 12 87 50 23336 64o|each
ra 5 640 each « 5 o 7th Range.
V° 26 70 Townflflp.
7a 14 640 cach 3 o 1 4 , zo
17320640 each ljg 36 |i 32 l io
9thTownfliij!: '9330 640 each
i 58! 80 4 &
11 64c 30 33336 64c each a 6 64^ each
TAt ~id Townlhip. 9 296
1j>314 each P loai2 64c each 1
19320 640 csch 1 i»o 20 * .
233361640 each 17318 64oeach J
3d RANGE. 5 456 r 9 '4 t
2d Townlhip. 6 464 80 20 I
15 640 7 250 23a24 64oeath
16 600 8 618 ! ° c
2C ? 557 5° 9314640 each 26 '' 3 ' 6 40|ea:h
21a22 64oeach| 17 220 64c each 4thTownlhip.
23 ; 609 23336 640 each la l4 64ocah
25336164 c each 4th t ownlhip. J 7 a ic 640 each
3dTo W nfhip. lai4 64oeach 2 3 a 3 6 64c each
9 188 60 17320 640 e3ch 6thTownfliip.
10 344 23336 6+oeach 1 1 4|64C each
11 267 6thTownfhip. i7®2o 640 uch
i» 152 1a 14 6 4 c.|tach 2 3 a 3 6 640 each
14 202 50 173206401 each BthTownlhip.
15 630 2333664 c -ach lal/ > Mojesch
i6aiß 640 each BthTownlhip '73ic 6 40 e3ch
19 217 50 Ia 14 640 each 2 3 336 6 4 o|each
20 616 75 17320 640 each ! lothToH ' nlhl P-
23336640 each "MSjotsch j
4th Townlhip. iothTownlhip. 1 7320 6 40 e3ch
1 170 iai 4 640 cach , 3 a 36 64- ?ach
2 544 I7a2c '40 each
3 3»o 23336 6 4 oleacli 1 'Vlrtcli I
4 450 12thTownfjiip. '732: V 3th «
5 12c IJI4 64c each 2 3 3 3 6 6 4 cKach (
6 640 17320 64c each '4thTownlhip. ;
7 ?6 3 aja 3 6 6 4 oeach 1 3i4j64oieacli
819 64c each |l4thTownlhip 17320,6 4 0jeic/i
10 J4C 80 | lai4|64o<each 23336 64c each
11 70 17«20j')40 each l6thTo«<nfltif.
12314 640 each 231361640 each lal 4 640 eaci
17320 64c ;ach !7a2o64oeacV 1
2 3336 640 each 1 23336 640 eaci; <
NOTE. i
° f L f?' tht fcTeral townlhip, he- 1
Sis %"'n! t 1
gregate qiiantjt'c..,, the several townfhl-e or fraSionll
th"c w ufe havc bceB ty aau3Uur
becn'oo othc r wifcaf«nahu!d U thL by ,
-'I Philadelphia, WeH-C.heflcr, StraJlurgfj,
°r Lancafle; , York and Frederick-town
5 7 C A* 5.
* * • TpHL proprietors of the above Stages, return their bett
L e i. tns«i,s to their ftiendj an<l the ojrtili J mineral, for
tiie encouragement received in this line of business, and beg
' : leuve to inform the public, that they arc determined to ru:i
1 their flages through from Philadelphia to Lancaster' in
one day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July instant,
l " i:i the following manner, —vi*. A Stage will set out on
. thai day at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the house of
1 George Weed, Market-street, Philadelphia, and run by
the way of Weftcnefter and Strafburgh, arrive in Lancas
ter the flr.ile evening, on Friday morning run to Wright's
ferry and exefc -.nge paflengers with the York and Fredej
ick-town flage, return and arrive ir. Philadelphia .011 Sat
'■f urday, and on Monday morun-g following,, at o'clock,
a said stage v/ii!fet ou: from thefaid George Weed's, Phila
m delphia, and arrive at Lancaster the fame evening, on
Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out from the house
of Mrs. lidwards, Lancaster, and ar/ive ill Philadelphia
~ r the fame evening, and '/ill commence again on Thursday
morning following, and continue »very week—-The price
for each paffehgir from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three
dollars a-nd a half, to York, four dollars and three qi ar
tels, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like Aims ior
- 150 weight baggage, with the usual allowance of 14 lb.
gratis to each paflenger, and j pencc a n:i!c for all way
passengers. 30—§4 W
John Reilly, t
George Weed.. ' (
a
TAKE NOTICE,
THAT application will be the renewal of J
the following certificates, ifTueoby Joseph Nourfe, f
Register of the Trealury, in the name of Roger Grif 11
wold, Esq. of Norwich, Connecticut— a
■ 1 certificate, fix percent domestic stock, No. 13,907 1
—dated the i7thDecember, 1795, bearing intcrefi from
the firft day of Januar)', 1791, for 1,597 65-100 dol- J .
1 ditto, three per cent, domestic stock, No. 10,68 at i
—dated December 16, 1795, bearing intereJl from the
firft day of January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dollars.
i ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th
December, 1795, bearing interell from the firlt Jatiu
ary, 1801, for 798 83-100 dollars. n
Said certificates are supposed to have been loft or j
flo'en in this citv some time in December or Ja:iUa:y 1 t |
last. t l
JOSEPH THOMAS, i,
No. 59, North Front-llreet.
Philadelphia, July %i, 1796. d6w. 2
. o
Washington Canal Lottery,
-no. r.
I A T THEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand.
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting r
a Car.al through the City 1 f Wafliington, from th Po ■'
tomac to the Eastern Branch Haruour. ''
The following is the SCHEME of No. I. ,
Viz «i Prize of ao,ooo dollars, 10,000 .
I ditto 10,000 10,000 .
7 last drawn >
Tickets,each J s>° oo 35,000 c.
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 s,o®o
55 ditto 50 a, 75 0 J
5750 ditto 69,008 °
To be raised for the Canal, 16,150
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000 a'
The Comraiflioners have taken the Securities re S
quired by the aforefaid aft for the pun dual payment ol h
the prizes. ft
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without el
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely b
notice will be given. h
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finiihed, (hall be considered as relinquilhed.for
tlie benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG, °
DANJEL CARROLL, o/D 1
,LEWIS DEBLOIS, i
GEORGE WALKER, «
WM. M.DONCANSON, d
THOMAS LAW, tl
JAMES BARRY. &
City of WalhingtOH, Feb. 11. £
* ' «
■ U
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. j
Notice is hereby Given,
TH AT agreeably to an ail of Congress of the United ?
States «t America, palled at Philadelphia, the sßth day
of May, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey
ance of perions, and repealing the former acts for that pur- th
P°' c - —1 hat therelhall be levied, colle&ed and paid, upon W
all carriages for the conveyance of pertons, which fiiall be
kept by or for aDy prrfon, for his or h«r own use, or to let
out to hire, or for the conveying of pallciigert, thp several du- ~
ties and rates following, to wit.
For and upon every Coach, dols. ] A
upon every Chariot, 12 dols. a ,
upon every Foil Chariot, j 2 dols;
uoou every Pott Cliaife, 12 dols.
•pon every Phaeton, with or without top, g dols
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panne t work above,
with blind*, glaffcsor curtains, 9 dols.
upon four wheel carriages, having framed pods and -r
toju with steel springs, 6 dols.
upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
fpringi or jacks, 3 dols.
upon curricles with tops, a dols.
upou chaises with tops, 3 uols.
upon chairs with tops, 3 doll.
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols,
upon other two wheel iop carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriage*, with steel or iron springs, M
3 dols
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, a dols.
•upon every four wheel carriage, having framed pofls ?■'
and tops, and reltiug upon wooden spars, -a dols. "
The Collectors of the Revenue of the firft lurvev of the "
Dillriaqf Pennsylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day "
of September next, fry the purpose of receiving the duties on r f
Carriages, at No. ti",in Race or Saifafraa llreet, in the City 1
of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Efq in the 10
County of Montgomery; and at the house of Abraham Du- f
bms, Esq. in the County of Mucks', of which all ptrfous pol"
felled of fuoh Carriages are desired to take notice. P
Notice is alfc given, g
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled spiri
tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to ihera ; one li cn
Cence for carrying on the business ot retailing of Wines, in a
lcfs quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one lai
licencc for carrying on the bufmefs of retailing Spirituous li
quors in lefsquanutics than ao gallons,at the fame time and -
> J 1 places, bytheofEcers legally aut'noiized to grant
fuca licccccs.
j WILLIAM NICHOLS, t
Infpeflor of the Revenue of the firft survey
«f ti>e dil\ri£l of Pcnufylvania,
Office of Infpedlion, at ) qo
Philadelphia, 2ifi July, 1736, j
j City cf Waliungton.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, \ T o,'
FOR THE i \'-i'RUi'Z\lc.AT OF 7"/£ '
n FEDERAL CITY.
* A magnificent ) 10,020 doiiai-c, & J
3 dwelling-houfc, j ca!h jo.oco, ire 3 S°>"oo
" I ditto ij.ooo & cadi 25,00 a 40>0C)0
t 1 ditto 15,000 & cafo 15,000 , o , aoo
I ditto 10,000 & eafli 10,000 ao.boo
l( I ditto 5,000 &. cash 5,c00 i u ' ODa
v 1 ditto 5,000 & cash <,000 10,000
r- 1 ca(h priie of io.ooa
's s do. 5,000 each, ire, . 10, coo
> 10 do. 1,0 >0 - - 10,000
30 do. 500 . . lo>o3o
00 do. 100 - . lO>doo
aoo do. 50 - . 10,000
n 4C O do. 25 . . 10)000
- t ' 000 do - 20 - JO,OOO
j> 15,000 do. 10 . . Jsir)oo6
c • I( >>7.i9 Prizes.
e 31i 261 Blanks.
I 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollar., 400,000
' N - B - To favour those who may take a quautit# of
Ticfccts,the price of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notts, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days atter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpeeimen of the pri
vate buildiDgs to be (jrcited in the City of Waflungton—
f Two beautiful designs are already feleaed for the entire
, front* on two of the public squares; from these praw'il gx
f it is proposed to erect two centre and four corNer buildings
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
, them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
, the manner dcfcribcd in the fclieme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will be made to defray
, the necessary expenses of printing, &c. and the furpltu
[ will be made a part of the fund intended for the Natianal
Univerlity, to be erected within the city of WalhWton. '
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets ire
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty ihya.
after it is finifhsd ; and any prizes for which fornicate
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is clofej, are to be considered as jfiven toxv&rus
the fun«! for the Univcrfitj; it being determined to ttt/e
the whole business in a year from the ending or the .taw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the I*rizes
are held by the Prcfident and- two Dire&ors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are'valued at more than "half the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty lour gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commissioners afiifted in the management of the
v Hotel Lottery are requeued- to "undertake this ardo<tes talk
a second time on behalf of the public ; a Mciei j rrnml
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped j*at the
friends to a National University and the other feclnral ob
jects may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different par:».>f rf| e
Continent as well as from Europe, whore the tickets
have been Cent for fqle, the public are assured fiat ths
drawing will speedily commence, and that the and ■
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe dil fofal of
th« tickets, has rendered the ihor- suspension indti: s-onfablc.
SAMUEL BLODG ST.
•§. Tickets may be had at the Bank of Coluih'h j of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, 3ofion;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richai d Wells,
Cooper's Ferry. eo
t FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN away from the fubferiber living ne?ir Church
Hill,Qu*en Anns County in the State of Vlaryland'
about the firlt January l-[i, u Itwrr, r^mcd
Sam, about thirty years of age, 5 ftiet 8 or 9 iifches high,
has a crooked finger on one hand, and one lor; and foot
smaller than the other, fomesvhat roupd-ihoul<3ered, s
cloathing unknown. Any person who wist secure or
bring said fellow home,fo that 1 may get bit* again ihall
bave the above reward with rtafonable char ; 'i s.
WILLIAM JACOBS.
i ar >e 4. "rawim.,
Diftridt of Pennfvlvania : to wit :
BE it remembered, that oii the sth clay a.f August, i*
the twentieth year of the independence cf the Unit
ed States of America, William Cosuett, «f the said
diftri&, :*a this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the word*
following: to wit.
*' The life and adventures of Peter Porcupine:; with a
" full <\nd fair account of all his authoring trar, Ci-dions t
" being a sure and infallible guide for all ent
tl young men who wilh to make a fortune by writing
" pamphlets, by Peter porcupine himfelf.
" Now, ypu lying var!ets,vyou shall fee how a. plaits
" tale will put you down." Shakespeare*
in conformity to the a A of the Congress of the Waited
States, entitled " an ait for the encouragement of learn
ing, by securing the copies of maps, charts and books to
the authors and proprietors, dftring the times therein
mentioned. Samuel Caldwell.
C'lerk of the Riilri of Pennfyhyu!?.
Aug. 8
Noiv Publifbing by the Printer,
At No. 3, Lastitia Court, delivering v to S\ibfcriberS|
and to be had at the different Books-Stores in this Cit»-
Berriman &c Co's
CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the Old and Naw
Testaments and the Apocrypha, with marginal and re
erencc6. An Index ;or an account of the most remarkable
paffagesin the old and new Tcftament, pointing to the places
wherein bliey happened, and. to the places of scripture where
in ihey are recorded. — A J tble of Time.—Tables of Scrip
ture measures, wcightsand c oin* : with an appendix,contai: -
ing the m#thod ot calculating its measures of suhfacu
hitherto wanting in Trcatifeson this fubjeS. A Table of Offices
and Conditions of men.
CONDITIONS
1. The fizeof this, Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO,
printed on a beautiful »ew and good paper, inade par
ticularly for it, It will be puh'ilhed in Numbers,- nottocn
ceed 3c. »ne of whicij v/il) oc deiiverrd weekly 10 fuVcrib
ers, at a quarter erf a dollar. "1 .ho'fe fubricribers who prefer
receiving the woik cotopicU, wilJbe attended to by firffli'ying
the fame on any oi the lubfcripti : o4i papers in ilie BookJlorec /
in tbrs city. y
2. There willbe an advance ii? the price, on fubfcribir.g
after thefirrtof Aoguft next.
3. In thecourfeof the Work willbe given an
Frontifpiec«~-From an Jingravingof the celebrated *a. r tiit %
Gkicnioii.
Berriman &'Co. gratefully acknowled g;e the very liberal
encouragement they have met with; and havercafonto believe
that the execution of their edition wilJ ani iver every expec*
tation, and /teak its own praise.
M»; y 26 $owcW
— aTi»-firnri->ir r rr"V —— t ni*n*»' "*"*
PRINTED BY JOHN HEN NO,
—No. 119 —
CHfSNUT-STREET*
(Pricc %hi Hollars p?r Annuit.j