~~ ~~~ 4 J* jf
of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Numbs* 1233.] MONDAr EVENING, AUGUST 22, 3.706. [Volume X. '
~~ - .
J3k, brig Mary
FOR SALE,
ma y seen at Abiah and William "LI
■ *"""" Brown's wharf. She is about $00 barrels -*
hurthep, strong built, and well bot-bolted, has elegant
uecommodations, is a good sailer, only 10 months old,
ais#i may be sent to sea immediately. Apply to
jamesr Brown, g
No. 119 South Second-ftrcet. £
Who has for sale, a few puncheons high proof S
| Jamaica Spirits.
AND A FEW BARRELS SHAD. I
Aug. 13 ffio I
UNWED STATES, 77" i
Pennsylvania District, 3 1
IN pursuance of a Writ to me directed from the Hoiwur- I
able Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the Diftritfi:
Court of the United States for the Pennsylvania Diftri#,
Will be exposed to Public Sale, A
At the Merchants' Ccffee-Houfe, in the City of Philadel- -
phia, o'n Monday, the 29th day of August, instant, at 12
o'clock at noon, no^
The SLOOP called the *
Rebecca,
With all and lingular her tackle, appa- —
rel and Furniture, as the fame now are ; the said Hoop
having been condemned, to pay Mariners' wages, &c.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marfiial. ; n
Marshal's Office, 19th August, 1796.
For Sale or Charter,
BOSTON,
BURTHEN about 2003 Bbls, of flour—flie may be sent
tti sea at-sL-feiall expeuce, her fails and rigging being in
very good order—apply to
James or __
Geerge Latimer.
April 49, • §_ 7"/
This Day commenced Landing, _
" At V ifflins wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop ]
St. Jago, from St. JagodeCuba—conhllingof
White and Brown Box SUGAR.
MOLASSES, of an excellent quality. s Ol
~ COFFEE. xl
HIDES and HONEY. » Iso,
For Sale or Charter.
The brig LUG Y, g
A stout, flroug vessel, will carry a
bout 1200 barrels, and may go to
'» ea w ' t^i a ver Y small expense.
The above will be fold for cacti or approved notes.
Samuel Emery,
No. 64, south Secotid-ftreet. f
July 47, 1796- th
For Sale,
Or for Charter to the Weft-Indies, w
C E R r: S, fr
Philadelphia Built,
Live Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 3500 bar- jt'
\_J rels, now discharging at Latimer's wharf. Thisvef-
fel is in excellent repair, well fouud and will bear a tho
rough examination, and as soon as discharged will be rea-
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to '
John Vaughan. ti.
July a 8 §_
At South-street wharf, «
TTfILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft. August, "
W by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and Hoop Sally,
from Port-au-Prince,
300 Hhds. COFFEE,
70 lihds. SUGAR.
Also, the cargo of the Sivedijh brig Guftaf Adolpkt,
capt• Ramfre, from Gibraltar,
ill and 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
Hazle Nuts in sacks
St. Übes SALT, fdr sale by
PETER BLIGHT,
.j—a For Charter, J
The said brig c
j MWm Gustaf Adolphe,
f A Swede, with\ Mediterranean pass,
* a very fine veflel, about 200 tons bitr
ihen. . Aug. '8- ffaweoaw
~ For Sale,
Friendship,
TJURTHEN 300 Barrels or 1400
buihels Coal, an excellent frame,
Live Oak and Cedar, and well found with cables, anchors
&c. fit for fea —now lying at Almond-street wharf, Tho
mas Penrofe's. The terms will be made reasonable.
Apply to the Owner, No. 31* south Front-flreet, next
door to Jonathan Penrofe, Esq. Aug. 19 t c °4
To be fold,
On Twelve Months' Credit,
If applied for immediately,
One Hundred Thousand Dollars,
And one hundred and eighty thousand acres of good
LAND, J
In the state of Virginia. Apply to the Printer.
AUg. 19 §
FOR SALE,
A Cemplete Font of Brevier,
VPNtirely new , and yet unopened. The weight of this
i!j font is about 312 lb. It is from the Foundsry of
Wilson & Sons, Glasgow, and will be fold at cost: & charges.
Also for Sale, pair of Super Royal Chafes. ;
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the United
States, 119 Chefnut-ftreet. A "g- I( ? §4 W
' C A B L £ S,
From 16 to 91J inches, for sale by
Jeremiah Warder,
Tulyji § No 13 north Third-flreet.
A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's place is wanted by a properly quali-
a vi whose charafler will be found unexception
able. Apply to the Printer,
Aug. 11
Wm. HOLDERNKSSK, , .
< In tin
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
the EaR Indies, a well fele&ed aflortment of Silk !
i Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberda(hery Goods ; which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on theloweft terms ;
AMONGST WHICH ARE, On 4:
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and ftlver
Superfine Boole, Jaconct, aadMulmul ditto
Do do d® do Handk&chiefs
Some extra black taffetics,luUftringsand colorcd Persians
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Loo£ and ihort Naiikeens
Engliflt Mantuas of thefirft Reality
Damaft: table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hollery> an elegant aflortmsnt
J Thead and cotton do
I silk, oil'd d©. and do cloth Fc
I French cambrics, very fine Ai
I Irish Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
For Sale*
I \ Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, ip Chefnut
I II street, between Front and Second ftrcets, in which
I Meflfrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and r |
I now do) carried on business. *
I Poifeflion will be given in one month, or sooner. ot
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or!
HECTOR CALBRAITH. p „ e '
.. _ ail c<
*P nl "• S kept
FOR SALE,
, 7 ties »
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, j- or
I in pipes and hogsheads
I Claret, genuine old, in cases
I Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
I Basket Salt, in hogsheads *
Shot, Ncs. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Bar Lead, Red and white <jry lead
Steel, German and Ruflia, in barrels „
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas,
Tin pl«« —An iiivoi v e Stationary, by
THOMAS & JOHN KETLATSTD.
I fuly iq
ELEPHANT.
I This Animal it to be seen in High-Street, between
the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street.
TTE will positively leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep- j.- Qr
1 I 11 tember, for Baltimore, in his way to Charleston,
where he will win'er.
ADMIFTANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar T
1 for Children. Dift
1 The PANORAMA, or the VIEW of the CITIES of ot'S<
LONDON and WESTMINSTER, Can
Is to be open till the 10th of September, and the sub- ofP
ie& will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE- C°' J
j PHANT.
ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA, fcffc
a I One quarter of a Dollar.
August 3, 1 7
To be fold by public sale,
/~VN Wednesday, the 7th day of September on ) t f s
the premifeß in Mount-Holly,Burlington county, by ii ce
the Subscriber, quo
The Dwelling-House and Lot
Whereon it Hands, having been in part occupied as a (lore u
I for several years pall, and in a good (land for business, to-
I gether with the flore-houfe, liable and buildings thereon
j erected, having two cellars under them. Also, tht f
j (hop goods and houlehold furniture. A clear title will bc
given to the purchaser on payment of the money or fuf- —
" ficicnt bond therefor, and possession of the premises will
be given in the said month of September.
| The sale is to continue 'till the whole is disposed of. J
l ~ j Holly having become rhe County Town, makes j^ e
j this property more valuable than heretofore. The condi- W(
j tions will be made known at the time and place of sale, by
PETER SHIRAS. _
I N. B. AH persons indebted to the fubfcriber,are requefl-
I ed to discharge t!ie fame immediately, as he intends loon
, jto remove dut of this state. Any person having a jufl de _
' mand againfl the fubferiber, is requofted to produce the
' fame for fcttlement. U§aw 1
Mount Holly, August 16,
j A middle-aged Woman, ar
p 1 \T7HOha,beenufedtothe care of children, andean
VV give reference for her reputation, may hear of a '
j place, as child's maid, by applying to the Printer.
I Aug. is § .
Lottery
TT'OR raising fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven p
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
X Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
J loco 1000
6 ' I l J°° joo n
T ~ I 5 aoo loco J
_ I 40 100 4000 th
99 SO 49J° le:
I 400 25 jooo th
1 4000 10 40,000 0!
5 Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000 in
th
"° 4334 Prize's. 44.4J0 G
' 4018 Blanks. th
,rs te
°" 6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450 &
I By order of the D'trecl t;rs of the Society for eflablilh- :c
ing Ufeful Manufadures, the fuperintendants of the Pat- U1
— I erfon Lottery have requefled the Managers to offer the
foregoing S«heme to the public, and have dire<Sled them
to refund the money to those persons who have purchased T
lin the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets ol
1 in this Lottery.
The lottery hasailually commenced drawing, and will n '
s 1 continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at thr office ot William Blackburn, No. 64 l '
] south Second lireet, who will giveinformation where tick- j te
I ets may be procured. j 1
Dated this X7th day of June, 1796. S'
J. N- CUM MING, 7 P 1
JACOB R. HARDENBERG,
JONATHAN RIIEA, )
I To be fold,
es. j A PLANTATION, in thetown of Woodbury, coun-
Xl tyof Gloncefter, and state of New-Jersey, contain- T
ed ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
I great part of the arable land is in a high state of cultiva- >
j tion, and very natural to the produflion of Red Clovtr. 1
j On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick hou'e,
I with four rooms on a fioor, and a good dry cellar under j
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage-
I house- The garden is large, and contains a good collection
— tion of the best kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees ;
the orchard consists of about three hundred grafted app c-.
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premises, may
1 be informed »f the terms by applying to
Andrew Hunter.
j July 49 / F
Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kifkpatrick, master frijm Li- ~
verpool, K ,
I 5000 BufheU SALT;
100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; and
1 An Aflortment of SHIP CHANDLERY; wh "'
FOR SALE undei
On -board) at Pine-street wharf.—i—Apply to
James Campbell, or ei 2
Gear re Latimer. ££
S !_ L_ Mj
Landing, i t .
From on board the Schooner ExpctlUion,
St. Croix Rum&Sugar, 4-1
For Sale by F. COPPINGER,
$ 221 South Front-llreet.
— DUTY ON CARRIAGES?" p
e-4
4-4
Notice is hereby Given,
d r I AT agreeably to arf a£i of Congress of the United Qu
JL Siatesof America, parted at Philadelphia, the 28th day f at
of May, 1796 Maying duties on Carriages, for the convey- qJ,
ance of poions, and repealing the former ads for that pur- j nc
pofe.—-Tlat there (hall be levied, colle&ed and paid, upon Me
all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which lhall be j
kept by or for any person, for bis or heT own use, or to let ——
out to hire, or for theconveying of paficngers, the several du
ties and rates following, to wit.
*> For and ipon every Coach, 15 dols. n
upon ev<efy Chariot, 1 2 dols. J
upon every Post Chariot, 12 dols.'
upwn every Post Chaise, 12 dols. «c-r
up»n every Phaeton, with or without top, 9 dols \\
upon every Coachee, 9 dols. cont ,
tipen other Carriages, having pannei work above,
vith blinds, glaftes or curtains, 9 dols. ?
upon four wheel carriages, having framed-polls and * n •
topj withfleel springs, 6 dols, large
s ' upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron ft ol **
, ____ fpriugs tirj^" 4 " o door
——1— -I
upon chaises with tops, .3 dols. ar »
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols. oven
upon sulkies with lops, 3 dols. wine
, n upon other two wheel top carriages, .3 dols. area
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or iron springs, Com
3 t bricl
P" For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols. j n g
n > upon every lour wheel carriage, having framed polls j s at
2nd tops, and relHug up<n wooden spars, 2 dols.
a r The Colkftors of the Revenue ot the firft lurvey of the n
Diftrift of Pennsylvania, will attend daily, until the 301# day
of of September next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on ,
Carriages, at No. x 17, in Race or Saffafraa Rreet, in the City J
b- of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Esq. in the a '
£ounty of Montgomery ; and at the house of Abraham Du-
bois, Esq. in the County of Bucks ;of which all persons pof ' IOU '
feffcd of such Carriages are desired to take notiee. the
Not'ce is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri- roo ,
tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to them ; one li ma j
cenoefor carrying on the business ot retailing of Wines, in a
lefsquantity, or in less quantities than 3Q gallons—;3fid one (
by licence for carrying on the bufinels of retailing Spirituous li
quors in less quantities than ao gallons, at the fame time and g
at the fame places, by the officers legally authoiiaed to grant I .—
__ Tuck licences.
,re WILLIAM NICHOLS, (B)
Infpe&or of the Revenue of the firft survey I
:° n of the dillrift of Pennsylvania. I '"p
Office of InfpeOion v at > 4, 30
y-" Philadelphia; 21A July, 1796. > J ]
S "TAKE NOTICE, Q
"HPHAT application will be made for the renewal of vn
I the foflowing certificates, iffueJby joseph Nourfe, I p er
Register of the Trcafury, in the name of Roger Gril I
wold, Esq. of Norwich, Conneflictit— I A
• 1 certificate, fix per cent domestic flock, No. 13,907 I
" — the 17thDecember, 1795, bearing interest from I
J o * the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65-100 dol- I
j° e " 1 ditto, three per cent, domestic stock, No. 10,682 I
t}^e —dated December 16, 1795, bearing interest from the Jj|
, fiWft day of January, 179 j, for 994 30-10P dollars. I 1
1 ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th I
— December, 1795, bearing irrfereft from the firft Janti-
ary, 1801, for 798 83-100 dollars. • los
Said certificates are supposed to have been loft or I ca
C f a " ftoJen in this city some time in Detember or Januaiy
last. ' fin
e JOSEPH THOMAS,
— No. 59, North Front-street. Oi
Philadelphia, July 21, 1796. d6w. . I n c
p C e ° Philadelphia, Wefl-Chefler, Strajburgh, j
iz. Lanca/ler, Tork and Frederick-town ' ac
r STAGES.
joo 'T'HE proprietors of the above Stages, return their bell 51'
oco JL thanks to their friends and the'public in general, for
000 the encouragement received in this line of business, and beg j
950 leave to inform the public, that they are determined to run I
000 their stages through from Philadelphia to Lancaster in j J
,000 One day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July instant, I
000 in the f.llowing manner, —viz. A Stage will set out 011 J
that day at 14 o'clock in the morning, from the house of [
,450 George Weed, Marltet street, Philadelphia, and run by I
the way of Weflcnefter and Strafhurgh, arrive in Lancaf- I f
ter the fame evening, on Friday morning run to Wright's I
,450 ferry and exchange palfengers with the York and Fredea- I
liih- ick-town stage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat- j
p a t. urday, and on Monday morning following, at 4 o'clock, I
the said stage willfet ou'from thefaid George Weed's, Phila-I a
hem delphia, and arrive at Lancaster the fame evening, on 101
afed Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out fVom the house I
kets «' Mrs. Edwards, LanCaster, and arrive ill Philadelphia
ifie fame svening, and will commence again on Thursday I
w ;il morning following, and continue svery week—The price 1 I
rizes f°r each passenger irqm Philadelphia to Lancaster is three I
64 ' dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three qsar- j
:ick- ters, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like £ums for j
j 150 weight baggage, with the usual allowance of 14 lb. j
gratis to each paifenger, and 5 pence a mile for all way I
palfengers. 30 —§4w I
;er S . John Reilly, «
— George Weed. L
Saies of India Goods.
oun-
The Cargo of the Ihip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal- I
,por- cutta and Bengal, j
A CONSISTING OF
tiva- \ Large and general aflortment of Bengal and Madras I ]
jvtr. £JL COTTON and SJLK GOODS.
OU«e, AMONG WHICH 'ARE
nder A variety fine worked andplain Mujlins,
'j^ e_ Doreas, EsV. /Mi'o,
■e"; -A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, !
pp c-. la boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
may For Sale by
Willings Sff Francis,
No. ai Penn Street.
F June 8 §' J
George Dobson,
BEGS leave to inform the Store- Keepers in Town and
Country, that he has removed from Market-Street f*>
N°* 25, south Third r ftreet,
where he is opening a Large and Elegant Assortment of the.
undermentioned articles—viz.
Superfine London Cloths and Kerfevmcrei,
Yorkfhile Iccond Do. Do.
Elastic dp. do.
Mix'd and Biuc Coatings
Fiannells, &lc.
Mancbcfter Printed Callicoes,
Lon<toji Chintz di;io,
Biuc *nd ditto Furnituies,
India ditto,
Long Cloths, Coffaes, Baftas, Batti'?a.s& Conjevrems^
4-4 9-8 5-4 & 6-4 Superfine Irvdia Bowk Muslins,
4-4 and 9-8 India Bock Handkerchiefs,
4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 & 6-4 plain do. Muslins,
4-4 & 6-4 Britifti Jaconets,
6-4 Britiih Checks and Siripes, *
4-4 India do. do. do.
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, &c.
\large affoitment of figur'd and plain Martinets,
Quiltings, Uimitics, and Striped Nankeens,
Fancy Waiftcoatings,
Ginghams of the firft Quality, fubjeft to Drawhack,
India Nankeens,
1 Men's White and coloured Silk Hockings.
Ma V 9
J For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
Thr'ee-ftory Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOT of GROUKD thereunto belonging,
the weft fide of Third-street, near Union-street
containing in front 31 feet, and in depth 100 feet, to an
' alley leading into ijiiion-ftreet. Thehoufs is 32 feet front:
j and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
large, commodiotjs, and completely" finiflicd; the two firft:
1 stories are each 13 feet high ; there are 20 mahogany
T*J-riMSs!Kri •JclJ
ar, which is spacious and convenient, and finifhed with an
oven, itew-holes and pantries, a servants' hall and large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an
area in which there is a pump. The yard is vaulted.
S. Communicating with the said building is a neat three-story
brick house, 011 the north fide of Union-street, contain
ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; the lower part of which
ls is at present qccupicd as a comptingrhoufe, and the upper
s ' part divided into wcll-finilbed large chambers. Thishoufe
may at a final! expense be converted into a convenient
dwelling: The street door is very handsome, and the front
and back have Venetian window-shutters. Adjbimngthe
le ' a "- house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are t rcited
j. bathing-rooms, &c. There are liktwife very good coach
f house and flables finifheil equal (or nearly so) with any in '
the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
in depth on the woft fide o) said alley 52 feet. There are
good cellars unde, the whole of the buildings, and a wine
'?■ room over part of the liable, with a hay-loft over the re
'' mainder. For further particulars enquire of
a EDWARD iLL & Co.
" c At their Office No. 64 Dock-ftteet. between Walnut & Pear
f ° ftrcett.
6th month 24th, 1596. v t
PROPOSALS,
(By William Cobbett, opposite Christ Church, Pbila
ey I delphia, for puMiCiiog by fubfeription,
The History of Jacobinism ;
Its CHIMES, CRUELTIBS and PERFIDIES,
I /"tOMPRISIfJG an Inquiry into the manner of diffefni-
I V>i nating, under the appearance of PnaoioPUY and
°' I Virtue, principles which are equally fubvei five of Or
i per, Virtue, Religion, Liberty and Happiness. •
ri» By WILLIAM PLAYFAIR,
I Author of the Commercial arid Political Atlas, &c.
07 With an Appendix,
oT-l BY PETER PORCUPINE,
,g 2 I Shewing the close tfonne&ion which has ever subsisted
,| IC I between the Jacobins at Paris and the Democrats in the
I United States of America.'
I CONDITIONS.
I I. This new, entertaining and inftrudlive work, which
I is at once a history of Jacobinism and a complete history
I of the French revolution down to the end of 1795, will
or J conftft of two volumes, octavo, each containing about
I 300 pages. It (hall be well printed, on a new type anil
I fine .paper.
11. The price of each volume, bound in boards, will be
I One Dollar and a Quarter, paid for on delivery ; and to
I non fubferibers, a Dollar and a Half.
I 111. As soon as a fuflicient number of copies (hall be
'h, I fubferibed for, the work will be piitto the prpfs, and fin-
I ilhed as expeditioufly as a ftriet attention to neatness and
I accuracy will admit of.
I *,* Subscriptions tak»n by the pttbliflier, and the prin
befl I c 'P a ' Booksellers of Philadelphia; MefTrs. Spotfwood and
for I Nancrede of Boftpn ; Mr. Rivington of New-York ; Mr.
, | Rice of Baltimore ; MefTrs. Pritchard and Davidfon of
Richmond, Virginia; and Mr. Young of Charleston,
j n I South Carolina. Aug. 14
J FOR SAL E,
of A very Valuable Eflate,
caf- P ALLED riVITTENHAM, situate in the
ht , s \J township of Upper Derby, arid county of Delaware,
dej- | 7 1-2 miksfrom Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
Sat- I new Wcftcrnroad: containing 230 acres os-excellent land,
otic 4 - 5 of which are g ood watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
tjja * land, and the.reft arable of tlis firft quality. There are
on on the premises a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
•>ufe on a floor > an<i ce ' lars under the whole, with a pump-well
-hia I cxcc U cnt water in. front; a large frame barn, stable?;
fdav and other con ; a smoke-house and stone,
>rice I 'p r ' n g-h° u f e ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
hree I es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
a '. r _ I under tillage, and are Co laid out as to have the advantage
. 'fa~ r j of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
! venient for grazing.
wa ' I The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
' I cultivation of the land, the g6od neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the it is very suitable for a gentleman's
I country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
I deceased, and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
I Oil. 9. eo.J Surviving Executor.
Landing
<dra« j p rora on board the Nancy, Williaffl Belcher, maf
tef, from Bourdeaux, a cargo, consisting of—
360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET,
I 212 Cases of 24 bottles each, Claret,
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS,
Far Sale by
«. F- Coppinger.
§• I July 23• dtf
## * _
v> , rt?---'".;r,TON • orri-Rv.
'ijl of Prizes t.r.ci liLv.AiJ ft' tifhinvlon
Lottery No. 2. *
TWF.I ETH DAY'S DRAWlNG—4os'jft ,2. 1
AO - Dols No. Djls. No.Dol, Ne.Dols No.Doli. No.Dols.
45 2 C4lO 10 434:6 10 37500
7 1 ® 5-2 24:20 io> 882
io 74 720 Poo 10 888
2>2 103=7 3838. 50
945 >° S9t »o 822 30,36 10
• ; 58 94 10 4"» 27021 323
9 ,s "353 «° 2>S 40.15 10
i.' 333° 97 5 366 992
*4« 6 ' 595 4'977 10
401 448 «9iC2 10 43583
5 !l 686 *3 2 99
545 'SOTO 745 " 659
-* ,6o °« • £0069 7 ' 77 to
4°53 721 .69 10 4413,
6b6 862 6i« 100 881
58.0 10 *7733 75° 45'43 10
6 47 « ,0 7-6 853 20
' «*? 387' 4 60?6 ,0
884 3-406 34Z
»?3« '9»n t 667 47830
to ® 0a 55 '6 837 4816s
8 4 8 538 889 988
''"I 49%6
thirteenth d,\y ? s drawing —Monday, A Ug . , 5 .
io s 10 2 5'®4 IO 30131 1
2 o sjß5 j 8 52t to 222
8 5 8 10 «4i 585 .85 ,
~2° 6 73 737 S°7 >0
535 937 2fi°4s 40124 I
48 15200 10 260 10 146 10 1
2004 ,0 6:3 27288 ,63 , 0
35°° >6937 623 720
798 994 10 637 4.255 I
881 »7»7S 887 10 418 10 *
f* 28 ;38 575 .0 ]
5°43 630 10 807 ,o 4 -. 474 (
° 86 6S ° 98 5 -7'B I
811 74° 10 29311 901 10
6396 10 799 3<9 993 I® f
SHO 8:6 ,0 594 IO 43,23
384,1 619 10 49,
755 498 893 g< a '
955 7" 10 911 10 934
7<iz 19076 31197 4 ., 7 , r .
705 .83 268 482 ~
8210 830 10 77 0 4534 8
444 2009 1 32080 92. I r >
691 to 5 8 10 33274 q62 h
9 1 ' 096 656 jo 46744
—- —"4 * ,0 35635
Is! 10 J SI IO 3" <0
7-4 22126 3601s 10 w
"»343 48.' 2 e 9 ,0 97 4
39 507 485 48074
955 ! 3420 24 S3 q IO 3 ,1 ar
si» 8;6 490,4 th
617 fc 99 311 an
310 10 , 4 i 7 j 38001 , 0 79 6 10 .
»344« &6- to ,57 .... 79 de
°i 5 9 sS 306 10 pa
»5 C 59 >5'43 700 JO,
New-England RUM in Hhds. Ob
Ci 'UNTRY GIN in barrels, art
JUNIPER BERRIES in Calks, an ,
SPERMACETI, ' 8n
COMMON WHALE, and i OIL
TANNERS S ma
SPhRMACETI CANDLES,
Tallow Ditto, . Mould and Dipt I thr
White SOAP, in Boxes J rail
Best Boston BEEF, in barrels and half barrels I ei
C # ODFISH, in hhds, I
Best Boston MACKREL, in barrels, and I nn ,
A few choice fmoaked SALMON, For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
Alio, a small invoicc of well aflorted I 4
INDIA GOODS, I -
JUST ARRIVED. Gi
A "g- *3 fio
Elephant.
Public is informed that this animal will leave Phi- I
T ~, vn F V k° IRSI of Septemberi D (lead of the I Ca P
J1! V which time the Proprietor will continue to ex- I ' St
hibit him as uiual, in High-flreet near Tetith-llrec' I M
Au E'" " , I Rev.
' ~ " — — 1— Cle
Valuable Manufactory. H a "-'
, . for SALE, InT,
A Soap and Candle Manufaflorj', flandino- i, j, f*£e,
convenient part of the city. The work, are°almoft <*<Y
new—on an entire new conftrudlion-built of the best i tc »'«
materials, and ready fro set to work immediately • <*f pc
Also, ' | Capr,
0,000 acres of the firft quality of Land, ! I:i s hl
Lyi'.gon the Buchanan and B,g Sandy waters, state 1
of Virgima This t-afl of Land is highly recommend- a p
ed by d.finterefted pe fons-further proofs of its good- i
b y a PP!y'"g at 'he office. A proportion of the -
ri?l U TC °V, be ex P e<3ed in cafii—MelTrs. Mor- J
thetefidue ' " W ' U be received in payment of in
Land 0n Bal(lw!n ' 3 Cheming
townfh,p, Tioga county, Date of New-York. This
trafl lies near the county Court-house, was T 'l
« r va7uahJ° Pla " ° f NeW " Yark > and considered vllle's
as valuable property. r>
Apply to FRAUNCES & VAN REED, Madr
Btokers, No. 63 fou'th 3d street. ti;, 1
W no discount approved Notes of hand at the ftort-
eit notice. au?. 2 n Th
c st&s ,
- —— j r j cue a
From the Columbian Centinel. from 1
A CONVERSATION. that '
FtrJ. Well, what do you think of the French '
now ; are they not a glorious people ? C °[
ar e T1 A g,or,ouß peopie! y "> 1 be!,cvc <he y ::v
arc. I here never was, or ever will be fych a peo- Pn n
. How u m "n and contemptible mu a aU the ft
people in the worid appear to them. l^ ed
Third. By Jove, I ciranot think so. I th-nk
a. an Amencan, that the America:, people are k
second .0 no people under heaven. ConfiderW f f "
our numbers, and our ciroumftances in c.rryiJ2 tk"
our revolution, ai d our ma „n cr 0 f conduftin/ «D A .
. where can we find, in ar.tient or modern ,f me ' B0 ' h ; tl
any thing to equal it ? '
Ftrft. The American people ! wh»t were n , ?° IB
2WSS7 f-nTK SI"
. Third. I beg your pardon, we did S vafi deal ;If "
j d ' fcOVe ; e l S™ powe-s in council in coura Je' J ° !
•nd in condud, befo.e the French would take arv
not.ee of us ; and if they had 80l bfen In th ;
Vineed ofourj,,, they never would C it" '
taken notice of n». ave the vapo
Second: But if thrv had not tat-n r «"f>alatic
what Ihould we be now? " C U8 » which h;
hood,
~ 'T i irjl. Wky : iiftle '•'* • vie at pre!?:.:,
the (laves an.'v,-.{sals o: '• n>af-Erii 4:.
r 'iJhinglon Third. And, if I may add, whifwjwld France
be now, if we had not led them to liberty and g!o-
T2. " ry—the (Javes of * despot, and the idolatrous wor
• (hippers of a bauble, called a ctcw".
Firjl. Aye, there were a few of the /im?rhan:
S in '75, that were real patriots, who knew the va
-1 50 lue of the French.
' 10 Second. A few! all but the cursed Tories knew
? 10 their value ; and they were not a few, I consider 1
t them the people.
[ 10 Fuji. Well, so do I, and them I consider the I
people (till; and if the people were at liberty to aft !
, themselves, we {houlj now be enjoying the fimts !
■ 10 of these glorious victories with this great people.
Third. I thought the people alwavs acted them
io selves. Are not a majority, the peoplit?
20 Second. Not always ; I believe we should not be a
»o in the wretched degraded (late we are in, if they t
weie. t
Firjl. It makes my blood boil when I consider e
the advantages we ate losing in respect to fame and h
fortune, in consequence of not being one with this c
glorious people. ■ . 1 I
Aug. i 5. Third. I think we have more fortnne, and are q
entitled to more fame as we are—what are the ci
j French after? They are wading through rivers of h;
10 blood, in hopes of obtaining peace, plenty, and la
fccutity. For these, at the expence of the bed. tl
10 blood of their country, they are depcpulating the ca
10 j bell part of Europe. But if th*/ cotld obtain and
I prcferve these filefiings without these glorious wars, hi
10 I would they not be a more glorious nation dill ? (ii
«« j How happy would the French nation think them- "fa
j selves, if they 'in our circumCances ! how ut
10 j ' la PP> would any nation under heaverthink tbercu mi
is selves! be
Second. Aye, you would submit tc any thing, ra- tel
J ther than go to war. Fr
Third. No, I would not submit to any thing-, th<
rather than not go to war: But I wsuld submit to ma
the perpetual enjoyment of peace, pknty, and fecu-
I rity, lather than go to war with any power under of
I heaven. v ; n
I , WVII. I conirT* I cannot htlp ratfing I-'
[the rrench mrrfnfl, and dcTefting the ccincils and fati
10 that have prevented our pvticipatinrr
I ' n tbe g' or y they are acquiring. f life
Third. Well, leoofefs Ido not envy them in nuf
j an) point of »ie'w. Ido not envy them any glory end
they may gain in the war—they themselves aie so not
,0 » nx '°us to put a period to. I rejoice in the confi- will
delation that we*do not as a nation, fuffer by com- his
I pan on with them either in our councils orcounfel- pro
lots, or our tondtlft. I glory in the confi..'era- tui(
tion, tha: we, as a people, have had the address to i
S. obtain, aud retain all the blefijngi this brave nation in!
are n rugglmg for, at the expence of so much blood and
and trealure, without expending the one or the the
Jo> " ' . !nc *' heart, I love the instruments 1 ever
made use of in d.refling our councils—so that, in- si
lead of our citizens being employed in cutting the nefe
hroats of their trethren, they are employed in Frei
raising the support, of life for themfelvesond their *recc
1 eighbours, throughout the world. inf u]
He-, rets multiplying, it was thought by each the
,j. 1 P rU nt here to close the convetiation. •' t c
: °» v a A ■ B - "t f
5, ,796. th
I I mrm. ■ i l< U..IK IJt r> 1 9
' GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES " V
10 . ■■ ' " ih
- PHILADELPHIA-. h "
j MONDAY TTENING, *AV OUST 21.
p} >i- I n e ' , - er '^r™ or "' n ?'Fri»ed here the OiipLieht-Korre, « I
f the 1 XI?, I n R " ffclaer ' in 4* from Bristol. „, '
psdengers arrived in th-above v t (T,l. „
Mr, Grattan and familv, cabin tt,. ,l "
3 I Rev. Mr. Jones and family, and Mr. Williu- " for
Hnrf l? Steerage PafT>ngers, on board fte Li»ht- ** ,ht
Horse, being imprefTed with a full fenfeof their obli- Sis
gations, to Capt. Van Rensselae*, for his oolite to be
and attentive treatment, durin" the whol»nf ,l>» - r
1 a from Briilol to Philadelphia-• tak* this ' " n R a S
noft - "Sty 6f returning him their sincere thanks, asTfmaH m ' ngf
bcft , teltunony of their gratitude, and only reere! their wan, tlonS :
|of power, to nuke the relnrn they wish, and which Fle
I -apt Van RENS»r.LA l ß'scondu'a in every re-n-fl f„ Cai
.J I highly entitles-him to. «*very ip e et,f 0 !•'
Capt \ [M Rzxsselae/!, has favoured us S
the % U Pa P ers i 0 the 27th of ~A t
lor- J une tncluftve, from which the Mow.
tof Intelligence taken.—Additional
in s £xtr a£is to-morrow.
his _ LONDON, June 20—21. Wh
v;ilc's'offi7e IRg -\^f (r< ' ng , er ' ,rriVe ' Jat L eletted
Be S M , a,C s the Marqui, of The
Madrid" JhS ' la,baffacil1 a,baffacil ' r at ,he 5° g"'
Winc'for, ! " lnere °'Wardtd to the King at «'digef
att e T wriS"?i& ,h p™
- from Frankfort of h m . ain ! " ters „ Th /
that the r m *'" ch " appears, ""of
:h ° n the and that this to,
ken about 3 co ' a
Banu J; g \ Humn f JCn ' w . llh a pafTport frpn 'o quit
kof May a Corr"' 8 rOS 'u " S 5 an<i 00 tile 3 0 ' 1 ' Pach er<
e patches to Germany e fr t om sr pa f - a^ U ? h ' T"'' d ' f reprefen
Sto Lauterburah. 'i». taking the road in ai
from r T °" !on isat hut ha h
' ga(h squadron wh h"' d,fp ° f " ,0B to mcet 'he En- Nerval
in point of numbers {u P"'' or ' ds «ell '.ot be c
r visi, onthccoatTe,^" , ! '^i
- j them. ' ' CCP ' n « 3 ftna out after fenger , t
intended «« be ft U p!he rT' 'V n °" U] > : -P'cd
• -f co operati n ri"h he P P U v!n!td '
■ quarter. * French arm 7 <"n that Veal-P,
the Courier Uni-verfil, a very deftr»fl" r ®°f» u
tilence is said to prevail a* Lru^ ,y e pef- -rreft, w
the vapours, of the llapnart war' ' ' Occa [ His char,
exhalations of the bodies of a pU?rJd " Ihf name
-hichhaveb«aaUVw d °LV rSC K dead Wes
hood, W6d t0 rot 10 ,h ' neighbour- f,H „f R ,
Castle of
t prc/cut, I T'. ' ■ ' ••• v'n.S ;>r Sat-
I f!in:Vb-v i»»> {•VrncT., bat «:h !i«in his dominions
Id Franct ! Madame d'Artois, hi* own daughter, is an aft of
and g!o- I wanton cruelty at which human nature must (bud
rous wor- J der.
J Government have lately up fix more flout
Im?ricans j veflels, '.vhich mount from 18 to'z6 guns each, de
tbe va- j ligned as armed ships (or the better piote&iou of the
I trade or the North Coalt.
Ie» knew j The fiiip Watts, Capt. William Fell, belonging
consider I to Maryport, was once called the Maiy and Ann.
j This vefiel, which is 126 years old, was at the
ider the j siege of Derry, is said to have been the vefiel which
ty to aft broke the boom, and is now on her paflage from
le fiuits J Maryport to Memel. 1
people, j 1
d them- j Extras of a letter from Falmouth, June 19.
I ""'Friday the Washington, American E»ft-indi- t
1 not be aman, of 75*0 tons, through the folly or villainy of - *
if they | two pilots (be had taken on boaid, went on (hore or? r
[the Lizard Point ; the (hip will be loft. She wa p
consider esteemed the lined (hip belonging to the States; I
ime and her cargo which can be got at is bringing up here,
ith this confiding of bales of fi!k, muslins, India hemp, &c.
It is supposed about 300 tons of sugar, and a great li
tnd are J quantity of rice, will be wholly destroyed.the whole a
are the cftimated in the country at 55,(300!. The Captain o
ivers of had sugar on Board to the amount of 14,000 dol- p
:y, and I lars uninsured. She came from Calcutta, but whe- la
Ife bed j ther for the account of the Eng'ifh Company or not Ic
ng the j casnot be known. The pilots are abfeonded.'' B
ain and rfts. Williams, the famous London Prophetess, S
:s wars, has written a pamphlet agsiiiift the melancholy pre- to
i ft ill ? dictions of Brothers, now in confinement. She
them- 'fays, her difclofurcs have benefi'ted thousands. She
! how utterly rejects the afTertions of Brothei s ; and a- to
them- mongft other things, foretels of France that it will b?
Ibe governed by a King, order to be reinflated, and as
"g> ra " ! religion and morality again aflame their light. Pr
j From whatever source filch opinions are drawn, th
thing, they are far fioir. being improbable, though they w;
mit to may not be prophetical. th
) /ecu- The invaluable Sta-ues recovered from the ruins his
under of Gahii, by the late Lord Cimelford and Mr. Ga- a 1
vin Hamilton, are demanded by the French. Thus his
vying L"u! Grraviltei who was bequeathed them by his
Is and father-in-law, is at length fcraichedby the war.
jating Mr. Whitbread, who, for a great part of his tur
lire, was known to have given away 40001. per an- pla
:m in oum, in private charities, has oow left foitie laroe tba
glory endowments to public institutions. His fortune van
ne so notwithfhnding these truly honourable abatements,'
confi- will nett his children nearly a million fteiling ; and Cla
com- h ls noble son, with the chief (bare of his father's we<
110 property, inherits the whole of his benevolent na- the
.:'era- ture.
ef. to A -valuable m ;„ e 0 f fl]vcr ha 3 ] ate]y bffn fomd de q
ation in Shallee Mountain, in the county of Tipperary, his
3iood and is working by a son of Sir E. Newenham ; I
the the are l. dated to be of a superior quali.y to any tion
lents ever before discovered in Ireland. con
t, in- A proclamation has been addrefTed to the Mila- the
I the nefe by General Buonaparte, which proves that the ROl
d in trench, to aflift their progress, are obliged to have rece
their recourse to the system of Terror. Talking of the Prii
, '? il " c . e^'°n at P av,a > Buonaparte writes thus to fufe
each the Direftnry " Three times the order to set fire tion
to the city had escaped my lips, when I beheld 1
the garnfon of the eafllc arrive, who, breaking Fric
their f-tiers, came with cries ot joy to embrace Dul
their t-eliverers. I orderrd them to be called can
£ s. ,1 ZVm °i ,hem wa> wanting—lf the com
blood oj a single Frenchman bad been Jhed. I nvould com
have ere Zed on the ruin, of Pavia a column, upon whic
which I zvculd have inferibed— * L or ,
j*. Pavia was I" ' all t
1 fiotall tte Municipality /—arretted 200 hof- he a
~ , a ? es '. a " ent them to Fiance. Now every prep:
the J „ tranquil ; an*! I believe this lef- 1 ,
[AM on will be Efficient tor tfa«- government of all eveni
;ht- the people of Italy I" Hou
to tX th r {t f pnUnds ° f P ri "-*°ney are about ~lt
te to b e diftri bated among ,he land forces who were Fem a
•tu- m : R gCd C T Ufe ° F St. Do- the r
lall tionfaVe o r,fJwl-° f JUne ' ' 794 " The P r °P° r - tUre . l
? S ofiiC r' &C - o oeach e °Th
,so Captams, &c. t6 2 ,0 9 to set
Lieutenants and Ensigns, 62 7 2 Princ
' ei -l"" s » 29 16 9 entite
U 'r At , l U f mS, , Pr '' Vat C?'? ' 412 I. fpara
°f Ket S u° ? <:f tHe p0!1 for the count y of Th
v. p' ' i ? i ' H -; inbrrs were as follow— ' j ourne
ror Sir Edward Knatchbull, tl , e p
« Sir William Geary,
ur . Mr - Fiinlfr Honey wood, ""tlk
n. elcfte.h fCUP ° n thC ' W ° Baron " s wcre declared duly Wirtei
II 50 gd n s7fl S ,h C: HT haVe adjU;!ged 3 |,rem, ' Um ° f "
of 50 guineas tor the difcoverv of a n.iw, i• u • . l
a, ."digeftivecafe.isthnid ft" Jlr
and prevent, f,location " * ft °" Hl f' -
re PA-CHE o
I' .Vr T ;Vwa^wl May rf\ Pa ' 1 "' a " d ° nre Mi ? : -
" i, Germyn.ftreet "f"?' " 3
lt this town under ih r ° roetime in Barc
daj-% apo he was disc Du P r —A few Malvet,
d i"Krf "bfcure lodging his Maj
, 7S^T^ ndt>kfni " int
r 'O qu.'t the t; txam "'«ion, he was ordered he Mai
totheAl,^ Biil - its
represented the ft t T r ' eludance . and Lord
- in, in any oit! ,hat he be nor to t
hfervation ineffeftua" he ur"rTt'he h ' S "Th b
i '-ot be crmnli-d w'iK "' s to bis request could military
w-fcH z&trt r d t,,at he m:;:i utpS
.ook^m^ rd ; p r ! T- Whcnthc p--'
O retire to an ff eXp, ; t!Trd a wifll
wat followed and i- • "j/ minutes - He fummom
tempted t» burn bis papL ' 3t " ?- d ' ng
venttd him, by imp, r i ,o- • mtf^"ge r pre this effed
Yea!.-—Par he g ° ffitial Scotch a
1 euf's 1 oiifoi»7icy A[ i concerned in B, country,
-reft, wben P he w' as i" V$ T ™ sUedf Ued for ''is The ne«
Hiacharafter i, we !k i enough .0 escape. business i
the name of ".jT 3 l'™*' Und " This I
"efTor of Pethion, ,s *' fUC " at " ibl,tei
fall of Robespierre, wns LeftL "Vr ' hc
Castle of Ham, after HTu 3 r 'to ,he Yeft;r '
' Wh * b bc f°on liberated. seven mil!
I
■ 4 Sat- NEWCASTE, June , 8
lU T' From.ihtCal:uu a Monf.y >n . :£j
in aa of Lieui. Campbell, and Or. Phil!,"™ of ,i • i
mil fhud- blifhmcnt, are to go to New South W a C
trie ontannia. The ol>ject*<»T their eo : - )> •j
lore (lout we understand to be, to procure recruit* soT £
rach/de- Company s European ba'falious, from an ,l
on of the men who have gone through the period -if !
them to remain at New South Wales.
donging Letters have been received bv the l=>»« • ,
nd Ann. from the eeftward, which met,on that a n 7'-
5 at the region of the Chinese, of an alarmir.T ■" j
fe! which taken place at Batav.a-Thirty tbouLi £££ '
ge from indubious, but much opprelbd people are u~l
to have recourse to arms; and bel , ™
. , 9 . rr A
(t.ind?. thewbokofthediar» B i„ -he
Ha.ny of v,a. The particular circumstance, which led a
shore on m.ld and inoffenCve people, to meafurrs of fucb a D '
»he wa parent cefperation, are rtot particularised. '£|
States; Extract of a letter from the Cape of-Good-HoDe :
>P here, ' dared April 16, 1766. '
np, Sec. " This Colony is in a state of perfect tra-n„;i
a great lity, not withflartding some vague rumour, of riot
e whole and sedition in some particular diftrifts ; c ; rculat .
Captain on very slender ground by delusive or de« ff ßin»
)0 dol- people—One of the richest of the Dutch prizes
it whe- laden w.th p.poer, spices, sugar and coffer w '
' or not loft on Monday last upon a sunken rock iff Car
i. ' Bona, in going round from hencc to False Bar"
>hetefs, She reached the shore afterwards, but the cares it
ly pre- totally loft." ° ' \
khe Law Intelligence.
s. She Saturday a verdidl of 2001 damages was given
and a- to Mr. Bnrton againll Mr. Cartwright (the huf
it will band of Mr. Burton's fi'ier) for seducing his wife'."
d, and affections, though no cafe of adultery" wa, ever
f ht P""ed. Lord Kenyon observed, that by feducintr
Irawn, the wife s affections, the situation of the husband
1 they was worse than if that aft had palled ; became
then law would supply means of ridding him of
: rums his wife, whereas ot present he was burthened with
r. Ga- a wife in whom no confidence could be placed and
Thus his domeflic happiness was deltroyed, "
-y his LONDON, June 21.
The Princess of Wales was at the Opera ob Sa
if his turday, and in Hyde Park yeflerday ; at both 1 '
er an- places (he wore a countenance « more in hrnro
large than m anger."—All hopes of accommodation are
rtune, vanished.
Lents, The Prince of Wales refined with the Duke of
; and Clarence at Richmond during the negotiation last
ther's week, and set out for the "Saturday
t na- the treaty having broken off. Her Royal High
■ 1 "Tr '" c f * ld ' wcnt " the Opera by the exp-ef,
desire of the King. The Prince mear.s to m.ke
rary, his hrft appe.ranee in public at Winchester R accj>
am ; It is said that the negotiation for a reconcflia
any Hon broke off on the following point : The P i, ce
con fen ted to the diimiflion from his houfhold of all ..
Vila- t..e parties whose coHduft has given offence to her
tthe Koyal Highr.efs, but i.»lift«d that they Ihould be
have received as visitors at Carlton House. to this the
f the PnnceTs, by tVe advice of the King, positively re.
s to lufcd her assent. The tlumght the propofi
: fire Hon very reasonable.
jf. dd p ' ri ' C of in town inmg. on
king Friday mght, when he gave his ultimatum to the
.race Duke of Lred. a„d Ea.l Moira, vi 2 that Sblhing
ailed can move him from the line he has adopted- he -
the complained with much afperiry of the of
ould compaa for the full difcha.ge of his debts, under ,
tpan which he was induced to consent to the onion.
Lord M. asked him whether he had refl ded uoon
all the consequences which might ensue ? to wjiic.H
hof- he atifwered, "Mo ft seriously, my Lord. alJ d am
'e r y prepared for thetn ro their lullelt extent!"
lef- Jhe Duchess of Yoik paid a long visit this
all evening to the Princess of Wales, at Carleto:-■-
Houie.
out It is reported, that a dillinguifhed asd amiable
ere female will certainty leave England, soon after 9
3o- the meeting of Parliament, and that her depar
or- ture has even b#en required by her relatives on the
comment.
ich 1 here will be a legal queflion of great importance
to feitle in cafe of the feprtration of the Prince an l
Princess of Wales. Will her Royal Highness be
enrited to her full dower of 50,0001. a year as a
Jeparate ma ntenancc ?
of Ihe Prince of Wirtemberg is to set out on his
journey for England, to receive the fair hand of J [
32 the Princess Royal, the latter end of the present
18 month.
Jo The expence of the marriage of the Prince of
ly Wirtembeig, including dower, cloaths, jewels, See.
will be about i60,C001.
of Ihe Parliament of Ireland is further prorogued
in to the 2d of August.
0- Sir Jolhua Vanneck, Bart, is created Baron
Huntingfield.
. Robert Smith, Esquire, is created Baron Car
-- rington. *
June 23.
n Baron Muller from Germany, and Monfisur
w Mdlvett from Paris, were yeflerday introduced to
g his Majesty at the Levee. It is unde'rttood in the
l best informed circles, that both these crentlemen are
- employed on the part of their Imperial and Catho
d lie Majeflies to prevail upon our Cabinet to give
its consent to negotiation for a general peace.
i Lord Macartney, we goes Gover
c nor to the Cape of Good Hope, and not to India,
s as has been erroneouflv reported.
. Ihe Stadtholder received by the last mail letter*
•rrrn both the princes, his sons, who are now ia
military commands on the continent. The heredi*
tir V princess is at the King of Pmflia's Court. .
Previous to Mr. Pitt's leaving town, it was de
termined in council, that Parliament (hould not be
summoned to meet on the 12th of July next, ac
cording to the return of the new writs. Notice to
his effect was yeflerday Cent off to several of the
bcotch and other members in distant parts of th#
country, who wev* preparing to come to town.
he new Parliament will not meet for dispatch of
business sooner than ;he early part of November.
1 his sudden change in political afFairs is t» be
sttiibuted to another determination; that of not
granting an Imperial loan.
Yefterdajr the fub!criber« to the lafl new loan of
? ven millions and a half, made jood their.thirdp-.vment of ryt. per cent, on the whole of that No
cajjSrd at the bank. clenl
On Tuesday advl»e was received at Calais from ries
Paris, that preliminaries nf peace between the in tl
Court of Vienna and, the French Republic had
been figred ; and in confluence of which intelli
gence, there were great rejoicings in every town and
from Paris to Calais. Abi
in confirmation of this intelligence, L'Eclair amc
of the 19th in ft. has the following paragraph, tin- er !
der the head Paris : to h
" The report that preliminaries of peace with mer
Aliftria are signed was spread yesterday evening left
"throughout all Paris, and is repeated this day.— (hip
We are affiled it is at Basle that they have been for
executed, and that the Dire&oty accepted them
the night before lall. If this news be true, there and
will immediately be something official on this froi
head." '
Thus, then," a war which is said to have been and
undertaken by some of the continental powers for am'
• the purpufe of dismembering France, is likely to cefi
terminate in fevering from the Empire large and wei
fruitful provinces ; for it may ealilv be forefeen,
that the French government will adhere to its fyf- to
tea of making the Rhine the boundary of France, qui
and that it will not be possible to obftruft the exe- mo
cution of this plan. ner
Whether, deserted as we are I « our allies, and ver
every other circumstance considered, the British am
cabinet will deem it expedient or fafe to continue
the war singly against Fiance, a (hort time mull Ox
discover. It is evidently the opinion of the monied Be
men in the city, that it will not ; for on the ground
of the emperor's pacific disposition, stocks have St.
experienced a considerable rife. re P
Yesterday arrived Paris Journals to the very late dai
date of the 19th inft, inclusive.
According to the accounts detailed, very much da;
at length, in these papers, it appears, that the ore
carfer'of the French is not lets fuccefsful on the th<
Rhine than it has been in Italy. The French, wi
however, are so much in the aft of exaggeration of
the jofles of the enemy, aDd mean suppression of 011
those sustained by themselves, that we know not po
what degree of credit to attach to their details ; ga
though the success of their operations seems un
doubted. They give accounts of a battle at Al- ha
, tenkirchen, on the sth, in which they took 3,700 13
prisoners, five pair of colours, nine pieces of can
non, and two general officers ; and estimate' the C!
loss at 1,500 on both fides. At Berckenfelt and M
Oberftein, the Auftrians were compelled to retreat of
to Bingen, on the heights of which the French D
state that their armies have taken an advantageous nr
position At Nieder-Lahnftein, Pfoftendorf and ra
Hercheim, other a&ions took place; in which the
Auftrians are dated to have loft 500 priffcners, and ti<
23 pieces of cannon. Jourdan, it is added, has 3'
passed the Rhine, with his principal forces, in the
environs of Audernach, Coblentz, and Neuftadt: in
at which latter place he has fixed his head-quarters, m
Milan makes a moie formidable resistance than S
could be expected. The fortrefs is garrisoned by
Gen. de Sales, with 4000 men. He is inverted by fp
12,000 French ; but his reply to the summons is, pi
that while hs has a man remaining he wi}l r.ot fur- at
render. The French were prepared to give the at
aSiult at the latter end of May.
Beaulieu, reinforced, has taken a strong position p;
with 14,000 men, that covers Lake de Garde and V
enables him to fuccotir.Mantua. al
Mantua is garrisoned by 10,000 men, amply
provided with necessaries. At Trent and Roveredo
there is an immense quantity of horses and bag- 1
gage, which are to be £ent into the interior. The ii
monied men coine forward very liberally to defray J
the expence. tl
The Italian Gazettes fay that the Monks of our
Lady of Loretto have embaiked with her piecious
wardrobe. The moll moderate travellers estimate
the treasure of this church at more than 150 mil- F
lions of livres. The lift of the various articles it
contains forms a vojumc.
A contribution (6$ 200,000 Zechins has been tl
laid upon the Jews at M&tlena. Many of the No- b
bility at Milan have had their arms eraled from their
coaches, &c. and otheis serve in the national guard, h
Ten waggons loaded with .money, have already "
been sent from that city for Paris.
A letter from Madrid, dated April 26, fays,— J
" They are making at this time a levy of 60,000 n
men throughout all the estates ofhismajefty. There 3
has been formed at Aranjuez a Council of 2 I Ge- 1
ceials, to digelt a new plan and regulation for this g
army. We understand, likewise, that in three de- t
partmenls of the Marine, Cadiz, Ferrol, and Car- t
thagena, they have put in requisition thcfailors of v
the neighbouring ports, and that they are equipping
(heir belt (hips. Troops are continued to be sent f
to Cadiz, who gofrom thence to reinforce the camp '
of St. Roch. All those difpolitions seem to an- v
nounce a profpeft of war." c
The Spaniards have five millions sterling coming I
home in the course of the summer, which is very
well known to the Dire&ory at Paris. This may
account for the mysterious conduftof the Cabinet 1
of Madrid towards this country.
The clergy of Gracow have lately delivered a c
Jlatement of their revenues to the Emperor, with j
an invitation to appropriate as much as he pkzfes j
for the profecutioH of the war. I
The merchants in Lombardy have sent a vafl j .
quantity of (ilk to Vienna and other places for fafe- t
ty j the mansfaiaory of that article being flopped, t
the price is daily riling. '
The Michael Archangel Ruffian frigate, of 46 '
guns, capt. Brown, failed from Leith Roads on ;
Sunday bft, to cruize in the North seas.
Six Dutch frigates and a cutter are dated by the
captain of the Lion armed cutter to have lately [
failed from Flushing for the Texel. I
A letter from the Hague, dated June 7, fays— I
" It is with the utmoil impatience we expect the
confirmation of the intelligence'received here, that 1
admiral Richery's squadron has joined the Dutch
* fleet, which, under the orders of rear-admiral Lu- (
ca-,, is gone to the Eafl-Indies to re conquer the ,
Cape cf Good-Hope."
An article from Toulon, dated June 4, f?ys,—
" The Englijfh fleet is still stationed before our |Wt.
They are waiting for two frigates whtch are desti
ned to cany Aubeit-Dubayet to ConiUntinople.-*-
No veffi! c-" enter the harbour but by *eri- We
They take our (hips under our very batte- Jorc!
ries ; they have lately taken the corvette L'Dnite, P
in the port of Bonn, on the coast of Barbary." of a
ExtraS of a letter from Dover —June 21. the i
" Arrived the Caroline, Inglis, from Charleston ; ront
and the Minerva, capt. Turner, from Boston. — ! "iju
Above twenty passengers landed from these vefiels; bec<
among whom was Christ. Gore, Esq. Commission- I
er from the United States of Am«rica, appointed nal
to bring over, and finally adjufti the treaty' of Com- eels
merce between that country and this. Mr. Gore fror
left Dover this afternoon, for London. Above 1000 tret
(hip letters were landed from the above vessels, and ton
forwarded by this evening's mail." 1
The arrival of the Ahercrombie, capt. Gillmo-?, ted
and Berwick, capt. M'Tagett, off Falfnontb, both pan
i from Bengal was yesterday announced at the India ty a
house. The former left Bengal the Ift of January;
, and the latter failed from thence the 2d February, ag'
• and from St. Helena the 2d May ; where the Prin- %«
1 cess Amelia, London, and Barwell from Bombay, pro
I were still waiting for eonvoy. S Ol
, By the arrival of the above (hips we are happy '
. to learn, that the army in India was perfectly tran- der
quil and quiet. Several officers, who had been
. most violent, intreated forgivenefs ; and it was ge- Of?
nerally believed, every difference between the Go- frij
1 vernment and the army was in a fair way of being
1 amicably fettled.
: The Company's (hips Walfingham, Lanfdowne,
t Oxford, and Woodcote were preparing to leave tre
1 Bengal. _
\ Instead of the troops on board the lndiamen at tit
e St. Helen's being to be disembarked, as has been thi
reported, we understand that more troops are or- gai
e dsred to embark on board the Walter Boyd, Roy- of
al Admiral, and a third ihip, ordered on Wcdnef- toi
1 day from the Downs to Portsmouth, by Telegraph W
e orders sent to Dual ;and these (hips are to fail with i:>t
e the others that have been so long waiting for a fair
1, wind at St. Helen's. >
if Capt. Martin of the Santa Margarctta, arrived th
if 011 Fridaylaft at Greenock from Cork, for the pur
it pose of taking pofleffion of the Jason Dutch F r ' - m(
; gate. j/
1- The Ptirfer of the Thames reports, that since (he ' <
1- had been in the ferviceof the French flic had taken
o 136 prizes, and 60 while he was on board.
t- The lall extraordinary meeting of the Whig r X
ie Clnb voted 500 guineas towards the expences of I'n
d Mr. Fox's election for Weftminlter ; the Duke
it of Northumberland fubfaribed 500 guineas, the
h Duktt of Bedford 300, and several other of the Mi- m<
j3 nority Noblefie, Sfc. in proportion : the whole lum
id raised for this purpose amounts to 35001.
Ie The expences of Mr. Honeywood, in the elec- F:
id tion for Kent, are calculated to fall little (hort of '''
as 30,0001. those of Sir F. Geary touch on 60,0001.
le There is an an extraordinary fummonsfor a meet- k"
t: ing'of the Whig Club, to recommend a fubfeription
s. in order to commence a scrutiny into the votes <jt
iii Sir W. Geary on the late Kent election.
,y The crops of wheat and other corn were never
>y spoken of as being in better condition than at the
s, present time. The hay season has been remark
r- ably produdfive all over the kingdom. — But who
ie are to reap the benefit of these crops ?—and when ? °-
For th« late Mr. Whitbread's Brewery, a com. J>
jri pany of gentlemen have offered 350,0001. Mr. ,c
»d Wlii bread, jun. who wilhes to decline the bufinels, w
asks 500,0001. lterling. ti;
ly j
}o Pache, the Frenchman who was apprehended on '
g. Tuefdav evening in Germyn-ftreet, wasoneoftht "
lie fix of the Executive Council, who en the 28th of ' (
ay January, 1793, signed the warrant for tha exeew
tion of the uniortunate Louis,
ur '*
us BRISTOL, June 27. 3
- !'
il- Fram our London Correfpoudent, Saturday night, J 1
it Juae 25, 1796.
" Private advices received this evening represent
en the Auftriaa victory and retreat of the French as
o- being the canfe of the loss of 3000 men to Gene- 3
ei r ral Jourdan, and that the Auftrians were every 1
d. hour expefled to re-cross the Rhine and the Sieg, c
iy in the puifuit of the Republicans. a
" A Paris paper received to-day, fays, the inten- w
ded journey of Gen. Pichegru to Stockholm, was •-
00 n°t to negotiate, bat to exert his military talents f
=re against the Ruffians, which has been prevented by f
English gold and the machinations of Pitt>—Our '
his government now in their turn refufe to acknowledge
3e- the Swediih Envoy, viz. an agent to the Emprtfs
ar - hut Five la Republique—the French Hercules is in
of vinciblc."
ng The lfabella, Given, ef this port, was cut off at i
»nt Melimba, on the coast of Afiica, by the (laves,
mp The Captain being on (hore trading, was saved, as f
an - were also the Chief-mate and five others of the ]
crew, who jumped overboard and were picked up
ng by a Liverpool trader.
?ry —
,ay The William, Bent, of Liverpool, was cut off
Det in Congo river, on the coast of Aftica, the 2bth of !
j March ; the Master and people, except two, got
| a on board the Britannia.
k, | DEFEAT OF THE FRENCH f)N THE RHINE.
j We early morning; received Paris Journals to
„ ; the 22d inft iuclufive. From gen. Jo.urdan's letter, it
! appeals that the French hive been defeated on the right
l^e " bank of the Rhine by the archduke Charles. Itiscer
ed, tainly not to be expecied that a French general will give
a faithful account of 'the disasters experienced by his
46 own army ; but still there is fufficient :n the letter of
on Jourdan to warrant a conclusion that the defeat which
he luftained has been of some magnitude. This indeed
is evident from the avowed conjequences of the action ;
t " e Jourdan having heen reduced to the necefiity of re
ely crossing the Rhine with precepjtition, and Iv eberwho
had rapfdly advanced to the banks of the Nahe, having
3— been compelled to fall back to the Sieg.
the It (hould not escape our readers notice, that in a for
|.,u mer campaign the Sieg and the Lahn were the places
f 1 that the Republican army met with a severe check.
The retreat of General Wm mfer, and of the Arch
■jU" duke, from Hundfruck, it now appears, were ftilful
the manoeuvres to enable them to attack the French, on
the right bank of the Rhine, with more advantage.
> "
-irt. The Prince of Wales gives daily proefs that he
:fti- has a mind which soars above those little punctilios
tli3t cotne undvr the denomination of decency. On
j he diverfrd h'mfcli" with driving Mrs. Shii
JoVtJan about Richmoi)J,and its vicinity.. •
Al) illudrious Personage will listen to no term; 11
of accommodation which have not for their balls ■• rKt <
j the tcftotation of a certain Countefsto the supreme retim
! rontroul of his Conlort's household ;to wliich an [ ria >
; injured and insulted P fs mod solemnly and »'"«•
becomingly refufes to accede.
Lady Jerfev, though Ihe ftTll retains the nnmi- ' II P
I nal office of Lady of the bedchamber to the Pi in
. cefj of Wales, has certainly reeeived her dismission
; from the Public, who, as well as her Royal Mis
; tress, have dispensed with her attendance at Caile
-1 ton-Ho'jife.
If a certain Lady carries her point, and is admit
, ted to Carlton Hoafe, it will be the only good com- 00 !
i pany in which (he will be admitted, after the cruel
i ty and impropriety of which (he is fnfpefled.
; According to intelligence ffom Constantinople, g m j {
, a good understanding between Spain and the Porte
. seems to increase. It is even (aid, that Spain has
, promised her assistance in preventing fiiips of war
going into the Mediterranean hostile to the Potte. ' "j
if The Spanish trade to the Levant is said to have un
- dergone a considerable augmentation. ir ,
[i Yeftejday a Board was held at the Admiralty- g *
. Office, Charing-Crofs, when a 74 gun {hip and a • ,r "
1. frigate wer! ordered to be commiilioncd. j
From lie Star of June 8. bur^
■, With infinite fatisfaflioii we announce, that the Jr "
e treaty between Great-Britain and the United States J'
of America has at iaft received the ratification of
it the House of Representatives by a majority of
n three voices, there being for the treaty 51> and a-
r- gainst it 48. In consequence the House on the 3d
f. of May palled " a Bill for making appropriations
f. towards defraying the expence of carrying into ef
h fe£t the treaty lately concluded between the United j
h States and Great-Britain.'' T
ir Mr. Lifton, with lus lady, arrived at New-York
at the propitious moment when the ratification of
;J the treaty was announced. .
r . This intelligence, so highly important to the at *
■i. mercantile world, was brought to Glasgow by the J
Fanny, Captain Braine, in 23 days from New* 0 '
ie York. r }
, n PARIS, June 4.
New endeavours are made to corrupt the milita- .\
[g ry. The soldiers fill the public hdufes, and after l *
3 f the retreat is beaten, they parade the streets, enter
te the (hops, fix themselves the prices of the articles '"l 1
ie they want, aild menace with their sabres the trades- ;
[i- men who refufe to deliver them. j at
n 16 Prjiiial, June 5. " A
The Cardinal Costa d'Arignaud, archbishop of uij
c . Turin, is dead. Wc are allured that the tear of was
0 f feeing the French in Turin, hastened his death : ter
3 ], the Pope, much older than him, may well (hare the dut;
■j. fame fate.
an ~— pay
?f BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
rr * — ■' arr
he BOSTON, Aitgnft 17.. aßt
k- Benjamin Hiehborn, Efq' ot this town, who
ho liae vchded some years in France, arrived from that anc
n > Republic since our last.—He left France the 17th l | ia
m . June, and was on his passage asptured by La Rai- y;
J r- son, Britith frigate, Capt. Beitsford ; the vcfiel he ( | )t
j' Sj was in was ordered for Halifax, and Mr. H was
taken on board the frigate, where he remained four ev(
days, and then took passage in the Hynde, Capt.
on Hodges, from Calcutta, for Salem ; where he ar aj
ht lived on Sunday. Mr. H. speaks in very hand- ar(
of forhe terms of the polite and gentleman like con- tr{
cu dust of Capt. Beresford, when on board La Raifon.
The political news by Mr. H. is but a few days cQ
later than before received. Peace between Austria cr|
and France was expe&ed, uotwithftanding the a«- nu
tions on the Rhine, which were but partial ; and
ht by no means involved any serious consequences. ta
The devaJopement of the conspiracy ot Drouet, an
g n t &c. was not completed. an
,as The American ambafiador at Paris» is refpedled
ne . and esteemed ; and the French government have
er „ the fame idea of the prerogatives of an independ
egj ent nation, that we have.—They know they have
' a right to form any national compadls they please, aj ,
without consulting us ; and they know the United
was States ha ve an equal right. They appear to wish j n
„t s for peace, and ta cultivate the friendfhip of all nap(
tions. (y
Dur —I^ip——^ mm ec
% e GAZETTS OF THE VNITKD STATES MARINE LIST. E
refs ~ gi
in. IHILADELPHI A, Augujl 2t. u
ARRIVED.
Fat - Ship Light Horse, Van Renflelaer, Bristol 48
res. ' Huldy, Warnet, Liverpool 65
,as Snow Hope, Ringe, Jamaica 55
the Biig Florida, Woodman, Havannah 14 ] a
up Seven Brothers, Heron, Kingston 30
Commerce, Reynolds, Jacq'iemel 38
Fame, Chirnfide» 'Jeremie 16 t c
off Betsey, Hunt, Port »u-Prince 12
hof Schooner Polly, Cronan, Dominique 14 Cl
got Betsey, Paddock, St. Thomas 15. y
Mary, Tat em, do. 19
Charming Betsey, Latk, Antigua —
£■ Sloop Sa/ly, Watts, Port-au Prince 20 Si
s Eliza, NicHolfon, St. Croix 1
•'u 1 Jefferfon, York, Curracoa 4
'f U Yeiierday arrived here the (hip Huldy, Capt. p
, L ]Ve Warner, in 65 days from Liverpool. The Huldy g
hi, failed the iothjune, corfeqnently brings nothing -
r of new. ~
hich Ur. Windfhip, of Boston, and a Swedi/h gen- 11
eecl lleman, together with eighteen lleerage paffengcrs,
on ' arrived in the above (hip. f
" Extratt from the Leg-Book of thefhip Light-Horse.
0 Sailed in company with the Roebuck, for Philadel- _
vlng phij, and brig Ann, Cowperthwait, for Russia.
f July 16, lat. 39, 16, leng. 30, *6, fpokebrig Peace
■" r and Plenty, far Cadi/, out 21 days. .
laces I7 th, ("poke (hip George, of Boston, for Co
, runna, with'live flock.
T.V " On 25th, lat, 38, 30, long. 42, spoke brig Alexan-
J der, Backlioufe, from JVales, bound to New-York,
'on out 25 days. Left at BriftoU July 1, the (hip Venus,
Motrefl, to fail in 10 daj-s—fcheoner Maria, HMch,
to fail 15th July for Baltihiore.
Ihe -The ftjips Merchant, Roffiter, , from New-York,
:ilios and Nancy, of Boston, 35 days from Madeira, arriv- 1
On ed 27th Juue.
/ /v
Ship Sffljjli, of New-York, arrived at
London j::ne 16. She left Bengal the iij Fr'nruar).
Ship James, Latimer, from this port a 'e\v
since, bou.wt to, Cape Francois, with palfengers, is
returned to Npwcaftle, with the loss of iier main
mast, <main topnaalt and gaff, can led away on 16th
in It.
CLEAStD.
Ship John, Jickfon, Hamburgh
Csefar, Thompson, Amftetdam
Brig George Wafhinoton,- Gifford, Bordeaux
Schooner Angelica, Howard, St. Domingo
Difpatcb, Stutfon, Hifpaniola
Greyhound, Daniel, Edenton
Two Brothers, Collier, Virginia
Sloop Antelope, Wilson, St. Thomas
Rover, Malone, Jeremic.
BOSTON, Atigufl 17.
Yelterday. arrived ship Argo, Captain Albert
I Smith, 74 days from Si. Peteifburg,.Ruffia. Left
there, June 5, among other American (hips, the
r Enterprise, of Salem ; Union, of Marblehead;
Success, of Gloucester; Swallow arid Leonora, of
Boston ; Neptune," of Philadelphia ; Union of Bal
timors ; all loading for Lisbon;
The Gbrham failed three days before Captain
a Smith, for Gloucester.
WERF SPOKE,
July 11, lat. 46, 30, long. 3<">, (hip Governor
Pinckney, 24 days fiom Rhode-Island, for Ham
e burg.
s July 2t, lat. 44, 25, long. 45, (hip America,
!{• 12 days from Philadelphia for Ravre-de-Grace.
t - Augufl 10, lat. 42, 35, long. 63, 30, brij*
Harmony, 48 days from St- Übes, for Portland,
j all well.
August 7, lat. 43, long. 60, schooner Jane,
Cutter, 5 days from Boiton, sot Scotland.
j Auguit 8, long. 61, brig , Jones, from
Frenchman's Bay, for Liverpool.
1. July 20, lat. 42, 16, long. 50, Julius Cifar,
f from Charleston, for Plymouth.
June 28, (hip Unfortuijate, of Boston, from
ie Cadiz, bound to Boston, out 25 days, lat. 37, 10.
e July 4, a brig from Providence, R. I. bound
to the coast of Guinea, out 24 days, lat. 37, 7*
'* July It, lat. 40, long. 42, the French frigate
Concorde, Capt. Mahe, from Norfolk for France.
a Had captured and destroyed, the Favourite, fiom
fr Liverpool for Norfolk.
A French squadron, confiding of two 84 gun
(hips, and one 36 gun frigate—had been out two
- months on a cruise, had captured 27 prizes, and
intended to come to Bofton —Was spoke July 27,
lat. 42, 18, long. 50.
r Arrived at Salt m, fchr. Hope, Moultorc, fro'm Miro
-0 guane, via Halifax, capturcd by the Thetit. Ihe mate
was taken out and lent in the Eliza to Bolton, v"\h a let
t ■ ter from capts Cochran, informing that he conceived t his
duty to take the velfel, and wjfhed that proof of preper
ty, &c. if might be Cent to Halitax.
This wa» done, and the veflcl clcared —Defendants to
~~' pay colls.
JtfEW-YORK, August 19.
We learn from St. Bartholemetvs, by a vessel
arrived oil Monday, that the inhabitants of Bcrbice
and Demarara invited the Engli(h to take pofleffion
' ,0 of tht.le places, which will bring down the venge
iat ance of France and Holland; and it is fuppoicd
that their property will be entirely confifcated. St.
a '~ Vincents is peaceable, except to a few Chanbs in
the mountains : Grenada is also placed in a m re
" as agreeable situation than formerly; their fate, how
,ur ever, depends a good deal on the situation of St, '
P' - Lucia, and that island is not so effeaually reduced
ar as to place it out of danger. At lead 2,000 men
are concealed in the mountains, and will soon be
~' n " troublesome to the captors again. The inhabitants
on ' of the otbet English islands are revived a little, in
a^. s consequence of the reinforcement under Aber*
" a crombie ; but they are now reduced to half their ,
as " number. A reinforcement from Prefqu'-ifle had
arrived at St. Kitts, of about 600 men. An at-
CS- tack, it was supposed, was intended *jainft 'Statla
let ' and St. Martins ; but if they can protett these ill
ands, it will be well; as Hugues ha? been very
quirt this fame time, waiting for a lurch. Great
avc praise Is given Mr. Murlet, Commissary of St. Eu
nJ" tlatia, for his humane condudt to the inhabitants of
ave that iflandi—one of the firft traits of a distinguished
ae ' and brave officer.
te ' Capt. Bunker, who arrived here on Tuesday,
informs, that the French frigate La Peufee, re
na" ported some days ago to have been in adtion with
two English frigates or sloops of war, is since prov.
~ ed to have been an aition near Montfcrat with the
r. English frigate Beaulieu, Capt. Laforey, of 44.
guns.
48 Philadelphia,
65 MONDAY EVENING, Aucust 22.
55 The Prefidentof the United States arrived in town
14 last evening.
3° ■ — • .
38 Died at Chefnut Hill, on Friday morning, Doc
'6 tor John Foulke, of this eity.
12 Letters by the April and May packets were re
' 4 ceived at the Poft-Office in this city, and delivered
}$■ yelterday afternoon.
19
»— STOCKS. ;
20 Six per Cent. • - 17/7
roix Three per Cent. ------ - 10/7
acoa 4i per Cent. - - none for sale.» - - 14;
si per Cent. - -- -- ... 16,6
a P t- Deferred Six per Cent. -- - - I a/6 to 7
J'dy BANK United States, - - - - az pr. cent.
ling Psnnfylvania,- - - - - 30
North 'Vmeiica, - - 46
Insurance Comp. North-America, 40 per cent. adv.
5 * ' ' -Pennsylvania, 5 per cent.
Serß»5 erß » COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, per £.100 fieri, par.
•r/f. at 60 days, par to 162 1-*
add- at 90 days, 161 a 162 1-2
Amfttrdam, 60 days, per guilder, 42^
'eace —— 90 days, 40
Co " WANTED,'
An APPRENTICE to the Printing Buf.nifs.
Enquire at this Office. Aug. 19
* nus ' A Handsome, well-broke
Mch ' SADDLE HORSE,
fork, ForSalfj enquire at the Contftogo Stable 6, the own»r
irriv- having no use for him.
Aug. »*WR SJLE,
-! E, in hfcds. bb!s. Sc %
CO of Denierara, and >cr tit led to drawback
SOAL-LEATHER )
A Mb,
BOSTON BEEF, and Mould and Dint CANDLES.
■Apply to ISAAC HARVEY, Jim.
i, No. 5 south Witer-ftreet.
8 7DO. 20. '] i\f
WANTED,
A STORE zed Cellar or Compting hoi:fc and Cellar,
for the Wholefmle and Dry Good business. Enquire
at No. 119 Arch-Sreet.
For Soli at the above place,
500 Boxes Window Glass, 8 by 10, 7 by 9, See.
500 Cream Cheeses in the bed order, imported from
Holland, and entitled to drawback. Enquire of
Peter Borgier,
Aug 16 iaw3w'
Salt Petre.
A few teas of excellent
EAST-INDIA SALT-PETRE,
FOR SALE BY
Samuel Breck, jun.
Aug. 9. eo6 Rofs's Wharf.
Lottery and Broker's Office,
A r o. 64, South Second stkeet.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a
Check Book for ex?mina?ioa—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Ch;ck Books kept for examination and for
the City of Waihington, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and pr:zes~e*changed for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New
. Port Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
> The fubfcriHer solicits the application of the public
and his'fri.nds. who wife topurchafe or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates. Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on depoiit of property-
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Aaguft.«B, 1796. taw
INFORMATION
TS given daily of the drawing of the WASHINGTON
X TXHTERYTaftEeOffi ce
No. 147 Chrfnut-Jlreet,
between Fourth and Fifth ftrccis. Alio, where Tickets
may yet be had. Aug. 15. eo
h'*T The Thirteenth day'- drawing is arrived.
To be diipofed of,
THE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
has between four and five vejrs to serve: She :
can be recommended f>r her fobrieiy and honesty. For
- particulars enquire at No. 132, Chefnm-ftrtet.
Atiguft 3. aawtf.
, Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State, of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raiie twenty-fix thoulacd
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpofc-of cutting
a Canal through the City of Waihington, ixom th Po
tcmac to theEaftern Branch Harbour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
•Viz '1 Prize of 20,000 dollars, 2C T ooo
1 ditto 10, coo 10 poo
ST} >•- .
6 ditto 1,000 6,0c0
• jo ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto too tfioo
55 ditto' 50 1.7J0
j 750 ditto II 69,008
To be raised for the Caaal, 16,250
5850 Prizes, 175/300
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
I "50c Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175p00
The CommiS oners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a<st for the pun dual payment ol
tit prizes.
The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, withotst
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fiz months after the
drawing is finiihed, fball be considered as relinqu-ihed for
the benefit of the and appropriated accordingly.
(SignedJ NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANTEL CARROLL, ofTS
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WAOKER,
Wm. M. DDNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wafliingtoß, Feb. 11. 5
ARISTOCRACY,
An EPIC POEM,
In 2 Cantos, may be had at B. Davies's Book-Store, No.
68 High-Orett. Aug. 19
Lands of tbs-UNiTED States
Trijfury Department, Augujl J, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
FT porfuince of an zSt of Qocgrefs, passed on the iStii
day of Way, 1 entitled " An a<2 providing " for
the fefe of the lands of the United States, in the Territo
ry »crth wef of the river Ohio, and above the month of
Kentucky river," that the feSion; or lots of land descri
bed in the annexed schedule, lying in the seven ranges of
towsihips, which were surveyed in porfuance of an ordi
nance of Cocgreis, pafled on the twentieth day of May,
in the year cc; thousand seven hundred and eighty-five,
will beeipofed tor sale at Public vendor, in the town ol
Pittiburgh in Pennsylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
October Best, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the firfi day of December enfuiag, unlets die' said lots fliail
be sooner fold, in the manner, and on the terras and con
ditions herein after mentioned, to wit:
la. The said foSiocs or lots shall be Md under the di
reSion of the Govenftr or Secretary of the WeHem Ter
ritory, and fiich prrfon as the President of the United
States sjjjrfteeizHy appoint for that purpose.
2d. Thie feid fciions or lots {hall be fold to the hirheft
bidder, but no sale can be made for less than two debars
fer acre of th« quantity 01 load contained in such lot 01
jefiioa.
3. The highest bidder 11 before ~kjstidied, ma* depo
sit at the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pare
money, in the Iwmis of such petfbn ay the President of the
United States lhall appoint to attend the Dales for that pur
pose, v.-aich will bs forfeited, if a moiety of the jiim btd,
iechidiDg the said twentieth part, (hall not be paid witnia
thirty days from the time of sale.
4ih. Upon payment oi"a moiety of the purthafe money
in the cicner -ijefcre mentioned, the purchafcr wi.l be
estr.ltd to or.e year s credit for the remaining moiety ;
an 4 shall rece'rve from the Governor »r Secretary of th;
V.'t Territory, mc the perion who IhaU Be appointed
ty the President of the United States, to direct the files, 2
certificate describing the lot or f'&ion pur chafed, and de
claris - thefum paid on account, the balance remaining due,
the time when such balaace becomes payable, and thit
th: wick land therein tsectieneJ, will be forfeited, if the
:,:q bi'^: 1. is paid ; but if tee fa: 1 r>a:aiicc »ba<l
be d«lj iiith/rged.by payiß ; _'thefaire tcjh-' frtafcrer* 1
the United States, the purchaftr or LU aignce cr
legal representative, fiialbrbe ertitl-J to a patent for the '
said lands, on his prod*cing to the Secretary of State a re-
ceipt for fnch balance ertdorfed npon the certificate. t>ut
if any purchaser shall make payment of the whole 01 tbe
purchase money, at the time when the payment o! the
firft moiety ii to be made, he will be emitlea to a- "
of t :: per centuoi on the part for which 2. cre
dit is authorized to be gives;and his patent Ciall be ini- ?
mediately ifliied.
Grven under my hand at Philadelphia, the day aad u
year above mentioned. u
OLIVER WOLfOTT,
Secretary »f the Treasury u
Schedule of feS'ioxt of townfbip:, or frnP.hral parts „
of toiunjUps, to be fid at Pittfbwrgh, in purf-t'ce «
of the 6tb feSion of an a 8 if Congreft, pejfed on
tbe l9tL daj'cf .tfaj, 1796.
0 ' ji O ' . s
fc-« <= • b H|X « Z \ ~
io m U If • — . *3
| < t *13 I i S '
g I -I Z
ift Range, ,6th Tovmfoip.l 6th r
ift Townffiip. j Baiaj64o cacl. f
28 j65 il4 i(!4cj | 17 { 3»o f
29 25ft 95 I7a2c 64c each iS j27C
30 250 7J 2.?aj6 640 each 21 850 i
34 240 90 BthTownQ»p. 22 1166 40 j
3ja36|640 each 3214)640 each »3 '427
2d Townlhip 1722 c 640>eacb 24 640 J
19 140 23 ;S4o| 27 '5 1 8 c i
»o 170 t 25130 640,ea/h j»8a3064c each
33®3 6 64ojeacb | '
22 230 lOthTownfhip 64deach '
15 4*B 80 H2 |54o|each 2d Towifhip.
26227 64eleacb sai 4 -14c each I
it 560 17320 64c eachj 2 440
59 Jsl 60 233 each: 3 44^
3© 564 i2th.Town3iip M 4 455
64o)each iai4 64:] ach! 5 4^..
1 4thTownlhip. i7a2o 64c|e:ch 6 4;:
19 6 4 23i38;640: e ach 7 34C; * /
25 640 Sai4 64: each
26 387 60 a To"* fl,'"
2 . , 6 i^ajCfiJo'eicfc
31 a3a 640 each 4 'J* 50 jdTovrJhip.
33 616 l* 6 SO \ , 4 . 0
34 445 20 3 !*° 2 1478 I
\{ 2 16 5 ° $s*3* each 3 ]
sthJow,ftip. 1 St
- r °2 4- 3o 3 ; 5 each
i; JC4 15 o Jo each
» iS 638 «o , 23336 640 e2ch
.3 45075 T, /'kTownlhip.
24 64= J , j5 I -1?
27 184 T,* - >4C , 2 *16
I7aic 14c each
s4" feJ 5S '
■ad Range. 173201*40 each -/ ,
iftTownfeip. 23136 640 each '
28 . :|2O j»hTowrfti P . l
34 1 6| 50 I3r4li4oleacV
3d '732 c 640 each ° W ' D , F '
2432664 c ach 23236 640 each cb (
28 1499 16 7tbTownfr.ip. * * 40 J
29 '64c 122 64c|tscli 3 *1°
3 ,a 33. 6 4c|each 537 4 * s 60 i
* 4thTonrnfhip. 122131640 esch' i [ 93
II »( 40 >8319 640 each ,* ol . 1
» 39: 50 ,5 6io l
13 J> 50 30.r« 640 each 64c each
15 2; 50 9thTown(hip.' l 34= T
16 259 20 1314)640 each t „ r t
*7 J»4 1721 c 640 each ",*l 4 j eSC J'
18 64c 23336 64o!e3ch 7 ° 6 4 -|each
19 635 nthT-wiilhip. ''.it
20 584 80 13141=40 each
21 636 21 17320 640 each ial 4 40 t3Lh
222366401eaeh 23a36640each 1 7 a: »® each
sthTownihip. !3thTown(hip.
5 I f r T r n | P i ;
637 64c S3ch lyric'4 4 c e3ch 14
13325 643 each 23236164 C esch * 7,1^ 4 T (
1731864 ach) •.„= *3*36 6 4 o l «cl.
3223664 c ach S l h '? A ' i "- 'J^Tovraihip.
7ihTowDfhip. I » ]o «™ (!ll P- 1214640 each
3 1640, 18 174 40 I 7 izo 640 each
SthTownfhip S ' 10 13 »3& 640 each
135 |640, each 23 427 7 ;h Ra-gf.
" .Z , iftTown!bip.
73 14 640 each ' j o | 4)o
,7 "^ 4 J ac i: -s 6^4 10 1 36 |i 3 1,0
wnfrip . I
6 164 Cl 64C ~fL .0 4
-11lg 30 33^3664c1ach S* 6 Pleach
.i 3 ai4 ! 64c ,ach roti2 Sack
640|each 1 l *°\ 20 jl4 , c
33336 64: each -j j 7 3iß j^oeich
3dR AS CF. 5 4561 IT9
2d Toumlhq). 6 'sc
r 5 640 i 7 tt.l 1 3 a !4 04c «ack
16 6cc: 8 6ifl I ;8c
10 5J7 SO I 9*14 64c]each \, 3 i 6 4 0 ' lch
aii22 64oeacfc 17 a2o'6acic»;h 4-'-'owna:p.
23 '609 i 23 336i64c'e'!ch 11 leach
15336 64c each 4th 1 ewnfbip. ' 1
3 dTowr.lhip. I3i4|64cjeach i j i .'6 64cVach
9 18?" 60 1732 c 6 4 c:each; "hTowniip.
*0 344 each 1 lal 4l^4 r j^ach
11 26 7 ! 6thTownfhip. '/"^^cjeach
12 152 iai 4 |64ck2ch 2 3 a 3* « 4 ° each
14 302 50 , 1731064cleach Bth 1 "wnfliip.
15 630 • 33236j64cL-ach i la,/ ;» c 'each
l6aiS 640 each BthTown(hip.; |"4C|each
19 -17 CO iai4|64c|each J 3 a each
20 616: 75 : l7aacJ'64cUch ICs " T °wnfcip.
112361640 each, 23a36'64c|each 111 4 | ' , 4<"irach
4th Townfiiip.' icthTownlhip. 17J:c | 5 4Cfacb
1 1170 . lai4|~4cleach : j a j''^4c!each
• 1 ij44 l7ajc|'4C-';:ach " th Townlhip.
3 :31c - 23a3614401eacb' lai -']^4"]fach
4 I 4 50 i tMhTownlbio.: ,7JJ |'4C|e?.ch
5 jiicl «| 13T4|5 4 :1-ach -3 a 3rls4tjeach
6 164 c ' »7M:H4c|eacn I 4 !" r«wrt>-:.p
---7 j 23336j ; 401each! 1 il 4'6 4 : ! ?ach
839 -4CjcacV. l4thlownlhip.l , 7 aJ ° & 4oeach j
10 54 80 i 1 3 3 "6 64c each
.11 S l ' 70 I 17*1 j i4cjeach I ® , ' , To»Tf!iip.
11314643 .io! ; 23a 3 6lj4cleach 1a, 4 < 4c|each
1732 c i+f each' ' '"aa-'t^oje^ch
: a 3 a 3f (64c [eachi 3 3 a 3 6 )64o|eaA
! NOTE.
THEqtttntities of Lands in tj>« fcveral frwrft,- ,
• me f k>ctd - « eiclufivc of the Lots
' La tea States tmri also of thof t .W f l M_ **
■ gregwe <paistm sin the feve % l tcwnfc'r, or
, parn<rf towtftip,, Hve beer Waired for
t «y ; the quantity in parecu'.ar lots or k
: " &m by '
Treasury of the Ur.ited States. 1
-* yOTICE is KerAy given to all perfocs who are or
j\ m.v he Creditors of the United Statet, for any fwns
of tht FutJeJ Debt, tr Steel, bejriag J frcfemt aleref </ /* '
'ber cerium per m*num. , v
' i ft, Thst pur fu ant to an Ad cf Congrats palled oa tJis
iSth day of April, lintitlcdin a£ in addition to an
ad, intituled "An making fmther pr»viGon for the t
fupWrt of public credit, and for the redemption of the i
pontic debt," the said debt or stock will be reinvjnrfcd and
paid in manner following, to wit. " Firu, by dividends f
" to be on the I\£t days of March, June and Septem- t
» ber tor the present year, trndfrom the year onethejfand t
" fev.Ti hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou- •
tc f aE£ J eiffht honored & eighteen inclufive,at the rate of t
" one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
u Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lad day o. |
" December (or tlie present year, and from t':e year one ,
« thoufar.d seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year ,
" one thonfuid eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at (
u t h r rate of three anyone half per centum upon the ori
u gia.l capital; and by a dividend to be ma eon the lait <
« 5-y of December, in the year one thouU.nd eight hun- ;
" dredand eighteen, of such fnm, as will be then a>(e
---" qnate, according to the coatrafl, for the final redemp- ;
" tion of th said fto;k." '
id. All diftinaion between payments or. account of
Inlercfi and Pri.cipil being thus aboliflied by jhe ellabliih
ment of the permanent n:!e cf reimbursement abort de
scribed, it has become necessary to vary accardiugly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends ; the p-lblic
creditors will therefore observe that the following form j
is established for all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation ol this $o::ce, v:z.
KNOiV ALL MEN BT THESE P2ESEXTJS, that
I if "
da mjle, eaafl-tvUanJ affiint
g y rry true and laicful At-'
tomy,f.r me,amJ'm my mm, to receive tie 6vider.ii td>]d> are,
„ jQj if pa-table cueiriU* to Lnr, ox the (here describing the <
fiock) mmytmmtin the book, of (here deicrilnug the -
bock- of the Treifury or the Coinmiffioner of Loans, {
where the fiock is credited) from (here ir.fert the com- (
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) rciti freer d>f, a-, aUsraej ar zttzr
ma Lid.T bin, for that fmrtofe to r.sle anlfolf..:Ae, ami* io ail
lawful tar rejuifiufor egtOfttefrtmifes, hereby ratifymg mud
informing all tilt my foil Attsrsey or iufitbjbt-Ae,Jtlll '.mful
ly do, by virtue hereof.
In Witaefs hereof, I have berevntafst rtj Hami a~.l Seal the
* day of ia the year
Scaled ard DHmered
in prtfenc^f,
BE IT KSOITX.iUt tails daycf 1
befsrt wre perfoaolty came t
vviti.n turned cud acJtr.srxvledgtd the abv&e letter *f atiofmey tc he (
lis s3 anJ deed. f
Im tejiiMVtj xebereef I have hereunto fei my Hand mnd affix* <
ed Seal the day and year la(l afonfaiJ.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, parfuanc to dire<Sk»ns
from the Secretary of the Treaiury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
1 rcafsrer cf the United Ststcs.
July 13. « te" 't I 7-
Spanijb Treaty Ratified.
THIS DAY, Pubiahed J. ORMROD, No. 41,
Cheswt-Striit, in a handsome pamhlet.
(Price la and i-a C*nts.)
A TREATY »f FRIENDSHIP, LIMITS &
NAVIGATION,
BETWEEN tht United States of America, and his
Catholic Majesty—with the Prtfideat's Proclamation
announcing its ratification.
ORMROD has lately Published the British and_Al
gentse Treatiet, which match in size with the above.
AUo, Bsrke's celebrated letter to the Duke of Bed
ford, and Wharton's answer to Prieflley
Aug-qj- 13. 4t§mw&f.
Philip Nicklin & Co.
Wi FOR SALE,
Souchong -
Hyson Skin )
Young Hyson S- FRESH TEAS
Hyfcn and \
Imperial
Yellow Nankeens
China Ware, aflorted in Boxes and Chests
Quitkfilver
Baadanno Handkerchiefs of exceiknt quality in
chests 7
L-ndon Market M.VDEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, hoeiheads, &
New-York Market J ' quarter caiks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hog&cads
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. i a 8
Lead in sheets
3 Calks of Cutlery asserted
A few chests of Manphefler Goods, afibrted thick
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
'i Tierces Virginia Snake -root.
Nails allotted in calks
mw&f
Samuel Richardet,
O ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
' TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia.
The Snhfcription Room wOlhe furmlhed with all the
dady papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial ch,« of Europe—They will be regularly filed
ana cone permitted to be taken awav on any account.
1 ea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refreshments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentkmen may dejfcnd on being accommodated with
of Wines, Spiritcous Liquors and the inoft
approved Mi.; Uquors froAccdon and o»her breweries.
The Larccr w;U befupplied with the prime and eartiefi
prodßfiicns of the Season.
Large and fraall Farties, or CngleGenUemen, may be
accommodated wuh Breakfafts, Dinars, or Samper;, at
houramo.l convenient to themselves—a eold Collation i-
COQTeDi<:DC 7. Bill of Fare to be had
The Lodging Rooms will be completely fumi&ed,
req*-iH*e Wenuon paid to clfanlinefs, and every other
.55 S /l MO£l R,CI ;"°" w111 be happy to receive, and
C °l of "id the Public at
L • . gratnude f3r their favours, he pieces
► " otr "" g ° D hU P 3rt wanting topre
tS° sgc W!ti whidl he hai r °
Phiiadelphia, April 19. *
I'or jale by the fubicribers,
IN HVN-JTUfr,
IJO quarter Chests frefh Hvion Tea •
e ICO n _, do " Souchong Tea;
300 Hoses China, containing fmaU tei sett* of *-
1 pieces; *
pieces Bindino;s.
e j TVilUnp Francis.
January JQ f
■
1, : Letters Patent,
Granted to the Suhfcribir, for tl* Cure of
Incurvations and Difiortions of the Spine,
Bv :n improvement in Stays ?nd an Apparatus.
EVERY thing has been iludie-i to reader thi- i-plica
tion fafe. eafv, effc-Sual, ai.<i genera % Ci'efu'l, 33<f
that if necessary, ittaay be accompanied »i'h any other
mode.
The success of the Patentee in the cure of diftortior*,
from Incurvations of the Spine, the Wry Ncck, i:c. in
this city and in different part? of us-. United State*, und.r
I the infpe&ion of eminent Thyfiriac, when every other
■ mode had failed, wiil, kis hoped, afford the futile fuf
r firient tcftimory of the utility of this appliotioa. :
N B. He .-cake -an apparatus for reftanrtg diftorttd
" feet in children—Bandage, in general—Troff of virion
' de'eripcieps, and ont jn particular on a plan entirelv new.
which in fonie cases if found <o answer better Aan anv
t otter.
He retnrns th-nks to tfcefc medical gentlemen in differ
ent pamof the United Stateswho have honored him with
- their paironage and confidence.
JV The Ladies are refpedfnlly informed, that he has
• an elegant affortmect of St~ys and Corfeu for Sale, which
will be altered if necessary, free of extra charge.
F M'KECHNIE,
Aug. 16 lawjw No. 17 Dock-street.
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
| Including thtNorthern Liberties and di Ariel of
Socthvabk, •
P'lMifced, and fold by
, BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High flreet,
( Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 26 inches fqiiare, and has been en
: graved by or.e of the firfl arti/U in the city, from a late
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
' phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
'. citv, Its population, trade, government, &c.
' July 19 to &f tf
J District of Pennsylvania: to wit :
BE it remembered, that on the sth day of Angnft, in
the twentieth year of the independence of the Uait
ed States of America, Wll.ham Comett, Of the said
diftrici, hath depofitcd in this office the title of a book,
I the right ■whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words
following: to wit.
I " The life and adventuresof Peter Porcupine; with a
£ ' " full and fair account of all hii authoring traniadioss s
j " being a sure and infallible guide for all enterp riling
** young men who wiih to make a fat-tone by writing
" pamphlets, by Peter Porcupinehimfelf.
" New, you lying varlet% you &all fee how a plain
s " tale will pnt you down." Saltuutu.
in conformity to the of the Congress of the United
States, entitled " an aii for the encouragement of learn
ing, by feenring the copies of maps, charts and books ro
the authors and proprietors, during the times thereat
mentioned. Sams El Caidwell.
Clerk of the Dilri>2 of Peuuyhaaia.
Aug. 8 • y 4\v
,
Noru Pubtifhing by the Printer,
At No. 3, Lsetit.a c jurt, delivering to SubfrribfTS,
and to be had arthe different Book-Stores in this Citv,
Berriman & Co's
CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OP
The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the Old and N'aw
Teilamenti and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes
erences. An Index ; or an account of the Kolt remarkable
pa3agesra the o!d and new Teftamrnt, poinfing-to the oUa*
wherein tney happened, and to the places of fcri ptiiewmr.
in they are recorded.—A I able of Time.—Tauki of scrip
ture measures, weights and coiui; with an appendix,conta-V
---ing the method of calculating its wtAtctu scefaces
iiitrrt) tunthgi* TrzHifa on :hii fcijeß. A Table of Ojjues
aac Condition! of men.
niMtisn
t. Thelizeof this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO,
primed on a beautiful new type, ?nd good paper, made par
ticularly for it, It will be published in Xainicn, notto'ex
ceed 30, one of which will be delivered we ekly to fuhlciih
eri, at a quarter of a dollar. Those ftibfcnberi who prefer
receiving the work wilibe attended to by fignifvln;
ji th| tame on any of the fubfcupttoa pipers in rbe Bookflores
in tots city.
8. There will be an advance in the rrricr. on fubferibis'
after tbe Sift of Aaguft next
"v 3 Inthecourfeof the Work will be sivee an elegant
Fronrifoiec*—From an Engravieg of tbe celebrated ar.ift.
Cue mo v.
&Co. grateful! yackonwiedgr the verv liberal
encouragement iney havemet with; and havertafootn believe
that the exeeation of their edition will antwer every expec
tation, and Jbcai its ozat tr&ft.
May 26 3trwem*
Wants Employment,
IX a gtn»eel rint;!y, reSdent tn town or country, 4
French lady lately arrived in ti»i s riry; —Sirs h«»re
ceived a good education and can be well recommend
ed. She wishes to undertake the tuition of children,
and will te2ch them to read, write, and speak tbe
D French language, in a ihort time, by principles Cmple,
if but very intelligible. She will also inftrud them in
e biftory, mythologie, &c. and will be careful in paying
ftrici attention to their morals ; her terms will be ray
■e moderate. Apply at No- ij, Lombard-Street, PhiU
f- ladeiphia.
August ao. rot d.
d
T Mr. FR A N CI S,
(Of tbe -Nnv TbeatrtJ
k j 'AKES this opportunity of returning thanks to bis
g fcho.ars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
5 _ on his return from Maryland, to open a pushc aca
-5 demy for dancing, t>pon a plan entirely new. He
tlatters himfelf rhit his attention to his pupils hi
>e fberto renders any promises of ronduifting his future
it ichemes on the molt liberal and jtriutcft terms, of pro
is priety, totally unnecessary.
d N. B. Private tuition as nfual.
Jane 3
id
To be Sold,
!( j At No. nB, North SecorJ-Strrrl, cmA Ij Jevercl of
it Apothecaries in this Chj.
ts TpRANSFERS of tbe right to remote pains isd iiAiaiw*
>. '.ioQS from tbe humaa Ivady, u Ceruredto D r.
j. PERKINS, by patent, with inftrumeotsand direfiion* oe
ocfTaiy for the practice. Tnis mode of treatment is particu
iar?y u r efu! in reiievmg pai&s in the head, zzee, teeth, brca?t»
lide. uonucb. b=ck., rheumatisms, rcceot «c. ic.
Aithftanding tbe ytility of thw praftxe % it tf nst pre
.umed bat there tie Cases ra vjuch this aod ctff)
remedy may sometime* tail.
Jun< JS,' is*
is
PRINTED BY JOHN FENKO S
—No. ug—
C u F!Nt'T.s;iSfT.
[Pricc Eight Pojkrs oer Aiuatn.<