#a?ette m BttltrtJ States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertlser.
C „ n TUESDAT EVENING, NOVEMBER 22, 1796. {VOLUMT. X.
Number 1312.J —— — «-■ ■>
. ■"—- 1 1 . nr» 1 T
For Freight or Charter
To Europe or the W.lndus,
The new Brig FAIR AMERICAN,
Galley, Master; burthei%i4J tons; has
good accommodations, and is now ready to *<ceive a
<argoapply to the Captain on board, firll whart
' abote the Stili-Houfe, S»uthwark, or to
Isaac Harvey, jun.
Who Batr-iww f«rfa!e, >t his stone, No. j, Sonth
Water-street,
A quantity of Cayenne and Trinidad Cotton
Spanish Soal Leather
And a parcel of Carolina Rice, in whole and halt
tlFrces. nth mo. nth. d2w
' barter;
p—For Sale, a good strong built ship, bur
then 13 jobarreis, nearly new, well found
can be put to sea at a small expence.
j.iffl'ty? Payment wilL be received iri English or
India goods, or if more agrfable to the purchaser, 3,
6, and 9 months credit would given on approved
notes, for further particulars enquire at No. 8, South
Water-street, or No. J9 North Third-street.
November 16. 7*
/ For Madeira,
The ship Concord*,
Capt. John fhomfon. For freight
or pafTage apply on board, or to
Peter Blight;
Who has for sale, a quantity of
Brandy, in pipes
Whiting and Copperas, in hogsheads
Old Hock, in cases
Dutch Cream-f heefe, in boxet
l?n: <7: y- 1- .
Glat's Ware, in boxes
Painters' Colours, ground in oil
Sweet Oil, in cases of a dozen bettles each
Hazlenuts, in Jacks.
November n. - d im
"
jr-"- Wanted to Charter,
V JSSn. A f a M ailin % Ve J el >
(I '.i Th»t will carry jor 600 barrels ; to
A fciciafeir load immediately for the Weft-fndies-
Apply to
feter Blight.
Norember is dx
r-* FOR LONDON,
The capital fK{p CERES,
*° on : —For freight or psflage
apply to DAVY, ROBERTS ft. Co. or
John Vaughan,
September 10. Front-street.
' For 6aJe.
The Ship CHA RLQ T TE,
Vyy A stout vcflel, about 150 tons bar»
sea at atmall expeuce.
■ v Apply to
Joseph Anthony and Co.
Nov. 8. dx.
FOR SALE,
1^;/•; 7 HE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Ma.ter,
* v: " hundred'tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co. 1
'If the MARY not fold in a few days, (he will take .
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
October 3 j. d
Just arrived, and will this day be lan- !
ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at '1
street wharf.
25 Tons beji Rujjia Clean HEMP. '
$6 Tons old Sable flat IRON, -
SyO befl Ruflia COR D\GE, aborted sizes,
mjOO Pieces brown Russia SHEETINGS, j
ico Bolis RuffU DUCK,
240 Pieces Ravens do- ]
co Half-dnwo feather beds, and
A lew paecaifloried Kfr.R
~ f&k sm'£ s r ??
Joseph A'nthony and Co._
Thc above mentioned B R J G
*^8/ ll ' R 3 few day *' and t ' ltc freight on
erate ta ' ms fnr Boston or Salem, for t
or palTage apply 0 n board or as above f
< Jcffincr 1. , c
— ; — . ——!_ j
For Charter, °
The Ship JOHN B ULKEL T,
gffl,. Ayres StocKlsy, Mafter'. ,
excellent live-oak and cedar built
ft'P> of about 3000 barrels burthen,—Ap
- 7# Robert M aln.
Wov - ' d._ 1
For Londoh,
M T 'M' am Penn,
J oriah ' mailer. Will fail with all h (
- speed. for freight or paffaee 0
apply to the Captain on board, or to 01
Jefie and Robert Wain.
J.X°y ember 10, 1796. j *
For Liverpool, he
TttrrSty noAfJKICK TERRr, "
J A( 06 Master. hi
'}??V Has a part of her carf'xagagett— so:
For fr "g ht or paSape apply to the inaf
ter on board, at the whar. of tho fiib- r0
Itribers, cr,
Jefe & Robert Wain. ™
Nov - 7- .1
For Lisbon, th(
KjfTjST TheDanidi barque Benetentura,'
Samuel Stub, Master,
A SCodveffel of about two hundred
tons burthen. For freight or pafTaie T
. apply to "* x ■
JeJfe Sjf Robert Wain.
. Mov- > . d.
r PROPOSALS,
By WILLIAM COB3ETT, oppoCtc Christ Church, Phi
ladclpbia, for publifliing by fubfeription,
*' s , ADAMS'S
: a Defence of. the American Confutations.
irf CONDITIONS:
I. The work feall be printed on English wove-paper, page
for page, fr»m tke best Lond®* Edition ; of coarse it
ith >v ; ! lie t<«njpri*ed in thiw large odavo vlurric.
11. For the three Vflliace?, .jound m bo».cU, th: pi .ee to
fubferibers U to be only four dollar*; and to nen-fubferi
bers, five dollars and a half.
alf 111. The lubfcripeinn lh?.U remain epen for ten days, and
if an encouraging number of fubferibers are obtained in
that time, the publilher engages to have the w«rk ready
for diiivcy in fix weeks from tjis present date,
15th N«veftiber, 1796.
lir - N. B. Subscriptions are tiken by the principal booksel
lers of Philadelphia and New York.
ce » £y~ The fubferibers to " Hiliory of Jacobinism are ref
or petSfully informed, 1* at it will be ready for delivery
3, early next week.
-eel Nov 16. i x -
Davis's Law Book Store,
_ No. 313, HIGH-STREET,
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his protcfllonal friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law generally thro' th«
Unioi), that his lateimportation of BOOKS is now arraag*
ed, and ready for Sale, from a single volume to an entire li
-1 t brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
» prices, which forftveral years pail have in so diftinguiOied a
manner recommended them to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the mofl extensive collec
tion the Jateft English and Irilh Editions ever imported
into this country, arepabliftied, and will be delivered giatib
on application.
Orders add re fed to G. D» in writing from any
(hall be punctually attended to*
A wiraber of TRUN'KS for Sale.
' "ALSO, TO Hfi LET,-
lf ? r- 1 ; 1 ' Maikct Street
Nov. 8. tu&f3wi
The brig Weft-Indian's Cargo
JVi/l be Landed on Monday morning,
The 3. iji infiant, 1
At South-street Wharf,
From the h'ort/f fide of Jamaica.
1 so BcgiheEds and one barrel Cofttc
13 Hogsheads of Sugar
to 105 Hogsheads high proof Rum.
es- / For Sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
November 19. *
- " FOR SALE,
A of choice Neiv-England RUM,
A numter ol "barrels of BEEF, and PORK,
And a few kegs of LARD, of a superior quality.
> Enquire at No. yi, north Water-llreet.
November 8, 1796 dtf
_ For Sale,
By Jehu Hdimghvorth, & Co.
, 4J hhds. Weft-India Runi, 3d and 4th proof,
us. # Barrcis best Indigo, and,
rv A few buftie'.t of Turk's liland fajt.
i o hogsheads St. Crojx Rum,
5 Pipes Vinegar,
_ For Sale, by
Ezekiel Hall,
No. io, Penn Street.
Nov. 7.
to This Day will be Landed,
From on board the brig Dispatch, Captain P. JSrum,
ce from Malaga, at Morris s wharf, "just above the
Drawbridge,
FRESH FRUITS, viz.
in k&gs, boxes and bafiets
I- Figs in kegs
ut prunes in boxes
Grapes in jars
Olives in ditto, , 1
Lemons in chests f
Anchovies in kegs
Almonds, foft (helled, in sacks
Alio,
Brandy in butts
Sw.eet Mountain Wine in quarter-cafks—&e.
For Sale by (
Peter Kuhn. !
November 17. $6
>n THE PartHerfhip of JONATHAN HARVEY & Co. 1
t Sefng this day Dissolved by mutua! consent, thofeindebt
'e ed to said firm are requtlltd to makl* speedy payment to
_ Jonathan Harvey, who is authorized to receive the sams
and tbofe who any demands will please to bring in' '
their accoants to him for fettlemcnt.
_ (
> The Bujinefs will be Continued 1
By Jonathan Harvey, I
AT HIS STORK NO. 106, 5. FRONT-STREET;
Where he has for Sale, ' ''
A general assortment of Dry Goods. )
- November 14, 1796. . $ rm
STOP THE THIEVES TTT 1 '
LAST Wednesday Evening, Oftobcr t 9 , between the
I hours of 7 and iooelock, the bed room of Mr Ricketts in
e O'EUer's was entered, cither by means of falfe kevs
or at the window, b> lome vdlams, who must have
Been acquainted wi h the fnuaiion of ihe house (ai the door
was found locked after they had committed the theft) who
took away from amongst fevrrjl trunks, ONE which con
tained a valuable part of Mr. Rickett't property, but of which
he is not yet able to af«ertain the coutents par.icularlv. M s.
ter Jiiogirsg the said trunk away, and emptying it of ud
wards of a thousand dollars in cash and bank notes, the vil
lains left, it behind the circus, during the time that the per
. formances of the evenfng were going forward'
' J!'' u ted r' th>t ail on the stage
roads, and the scry houses, as well as all c j vl | officers, mfv ™
be watchfu! in fecunng suspicious persons, who m, v have a
mea U dT°, f [h " r 'Ppearince w.uld by m ~
means belpeak them to ai poffelfed of. '
One Hundred Dollars Reward
be P' ven / or f « u ™g tfc e thief or thieves, and a fur
' OaT, Securing them with the property.
l o be Sold, fh,
The Time of a smart, active Negro Lad wh
Who has Eleven years to serve '
0<lo&i e at N °- S ° Utk Front on
■ —
$ For Sale.
7 Lif-scoarfehats
Copper bottoms and flieets f
Shot, all sizes, patent and common
Sheet and barr lead
Englifli (hoes and boots in cases
Tin plates
Cold witches
Taunton ale in calks.
Apply to
Smon Walker,
I*4, S»- Fem-Ji Sir
Nov. 8. di4t-
OLD
London Particular Madeira Wine,
In pipes, hoglheads and quarter-ca/ks,
Landing this day at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, and
for sale by
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Nov. I. d
• Belt Boflon & Nora-Scotia Mackarcl,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbls.
47 bbls. prime Coffee,
Best Boston Beef,
Codfith in hds.
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 nr T
Northerij j 1
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior
i quality.
A few boxes excellent brown soap, >
6 Bales of Corks.
: 40 Pipes excellent Lisbon Wine.
A few {acks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muslins.
FOR S/iLE tip
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Oilober 31. d
The C,argt> of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lis
bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
a 8 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spaniih wool
3 do. of Annifeed
7000 Bushels of best Lisbon Sa.lt
So Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hoglheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the Ihip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart,
from Kingftou.
Se Pt- 13- . . _"■( ; ] 5 ' d
lrifh Linens, 6cc.
Imported per the /hips Glajgoni, from Dublin, Liber
tyfrom Cork, and brig Mentor, from Be/fq/l,
4-4 and 7.8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In whole and half boxes,
Assorted from ud. to "4s. sterling—Also 5- t, wide
Sheetings, and low priced yarn and wurftcd Hole.
On
- 7"8 «iieXawnn.
Diapers and Table-Cloths
A few boxisTickens and Chatfcs
A few bales Flannels
Cork and Belfaft Sail Clcth, Not. I and 5 '
V Er,ICS ' C6by 8,
10 Ditto > Window Glass, 7 by "o,
■5 J d 2 by 10.
Ihe above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
drawback, and will be disposed of by the package on
reasonable terms. 1
James, Clibborn & Englilh,
No. 6, N. Front-street.
loth mo. xpth. j t f
# The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM' BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpe&fully informed, that
this animal is to be ieen every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Markfct
ftrcet, No. 1 e6, south between Third 1 and
Fourth-flteets.
_ Admittance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci-
fee him.
OC> At the request of many perfens it wi}l be \
exhibited on evenings from five to eight o'clock, 1
at half a dollar eaeh The room will be well
lighted.
November 7. d 1
Imported in the late arrh>ils from Europe and the
_ mjl-Indies, '
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique Molaflis, in hoglheads
Choice old Lisbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-calks
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-c.lks
Malm fey Madeira Wine, in pipes and quarter-calks
renerine Wine, in pipes
Ri'ffia & Flemish Sheeting and Ravens Duc-k, m cases J
v\ inddw Glass, 8 by io, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, n calks
Mill Saws and Crols-cut Saws, in boxes b
Also, on hand, ! t]
A few chests of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; Aflafcß
tida and Tapioca ; and a Few bales of Collies, ~
Uattas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Harrdker- !
and a complete aflbrtment of c-ii and 6-4 E
Boulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers & Co.
0aob " *° dawm&tham
SALTPETRE. t
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
rale at No. 45, Sou* Third-flreet. *
November
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
cxchang«d for prizes, at the Office, No. ,4, Chefnut
whore a corred Numerical Book is kept for pubift
Lnfpeaion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale lex
-hanged for prizes diawa in the Waffiint> ton 1 orterv n f L
K T sharp - u Carried on as us ual. m
» ™ SATRE U* •
November 17. ttjtf
To be Let,
A Lirgi Cellir in Walnut--ftreet, just above Fourth
ftreet, that H floored with two inch plank, and will
hold upward! of 100 pipes of wine- »
Also * Stable and Coach-House, that will hold four
horfej and two carriages; and several Stores in
Fourth-street. Apply to
„ George Meade* :
Why has for sale
45 Boies Caflile S®ap
RfH Liflwm Wir' '
A lew pipe .11 r;u of Wine
A-few barrels Irifli Mess Beef 7 -£
And a few barrels Ship Bread.
Nov. 4. I'td
Jujl Landing, ;
id And for Sale, a q unity of
BOURDEAUX BRANDY,
FROM on board the fchoonT Lyd.ia &. Polly, Oliver
Jenkins master, lying .at Wilcock's whart. For
_ terms, enquire on board faidfehooner.
November 15th.- Jlw
1 — 1 — ~
For Sale,
AThree-ftory BRICK HO' T SE and Lot, m Chei-iUt
street, between Front ajid Second ftroets, n which
Messrs. James Calbraith &Co have for rr.any years (and
now do) carried on business.
Pcifeflion will be given io one r;orit.!i, or oqner.
For terms apply to V.TLLIAM BEI.L, or
HEC'I'OR CAJ f ' ITH.
jr April 11. €_
Just and in g,
At jSouth Jlreet wharf from on board the. [hit Sedg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Pt' %
The following Goods :
Raffia Sail Dack, firlt quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Co. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback. —
— Do. Crash.
t 1 Do. Mou'd Candles, 4, $ to the lb. of the
• English size.
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White Soap in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
Isinglass, ill and |snd fort.
Horse Hair uncurled.
Ruflia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods. v
S, 10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
rt', St. Peteriburg Clean Hemp;
For Sale by
_ • Philips, Cramond, k Go.
Oflober U. 5
r . Fashionable Waistcoating.
i, GEORGE DOB SON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received per the Diana, from (London,
Clouded and striped Spanilh .Swanlilowa
CJauilcu lv-mi oats and,McJelkias
Striped do. and do^
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Ermfnets
Printed Florinetts
Do. CaflinetJ and Caflimeres
Superfine .printed Qui (tings, newest patterns
Alio, per different arrivals^
* A large and general aflfortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season.
t . November 5.
LANDING,
Out of different veffcls from England, and for fait
by the fubjvribsrs on reasonable terms,
it Superfine and common cloths, and caffimers
8 Ribbed and llriped do. do.
_ Blankets , mottled green and silk rugs.
, Superfine blue, Claret, and common coatings,
Kerseys, Bear-fcin's, plains and Halfthicks
. Swanlkms, Serges and Flannels,
l- British Ingrain Carpeting,
Hats assorted in cases of 11 doz. each.
c c ?) in " es ' P rinted Callicoes and Handkerchiefs.
Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
» Yarn, Worflcd, and Cotton hofierv.
®"I ers ' TWckfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. &c.
M *7r t !" 0a ? ords 0f a Superior quality.
.. d I»d. 20d. nails, and frying pans,
- AoafTortaicnt of Ironmongerry, Sutfery and a variety
of liHia cotton, .tod silk goads. " '
Thomas JoJhua Vifher.
Also by the Glasgow frOm Dublin, r
l-S and 4-4 Irilh Linens assorted in boxes of 50 pieces
s do. Brown, Glazed Linnrn. peces,
°«ft. 17. ' dtf<
i'or bfii'o, " "~
,% J- WARDER, PARKER Co.
An Invoice of Cordage
Confiding of different sizes,' from .1 inch cables down
to rope of a mches, of difeent lengths: ta'wtedh
| the Ihip bwift, !ro:n Hull, and entitled to drawback
- dt y
An elegant Bay Horse for sale
Enquire -at G ,r g , ft . ,n' S Stables, i„ Pine-Leet
between fo-rth and Fifth-ttreets
Nov. 18,
— : — JUw
Washington Lottery.
T<"e 38th and 39th cays* driwing < f rhe
Lottery, No. a, arc received at thefifice No
ket-ftreet where ticket, may be examined ' 34 ' '
' ■ Inlol , matlon S' ven where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be procured. otner
November 17,' 1796. j
Sheridan's Dictionary,
TBS SIXTH FDITION,
Is this Day Published,
.
LAWbUAGE, both with regard t ) found anrl •
one main object of which is t«> rn 1 leaning,
o«, t „ '■o*'!y
'Philadelphia, November 2J,-
citiz«
■ i 'faeafi
In consequence of the appointment of tne Hon. patti
■-Benjamin Bourn, to bediftriftjudgeop theftMc war,
of Rhode Island, his feat in the Kaufe of repre- by ci
fentatives of the' United "States becomes vacant. Wha
Eiisha R. PoTTEft, Esq. is Cet up as a candidate man,
to supply his place. Mr. Potteris at present.speak- with
er of the house of representatives of that state, i« a til tl
decided federa'.ift, and will probably be clefted by tialU
the people. { « yl <
__ diouk
Mr. Fsmko, g° vf
S, t , court
'Having read' i paragraph in yrmr paper of Fn- Fran
day lad, announcing the Rev. 1. N. Goets, as pas- vate<
' tor of tha Roman Catholic Church of the. raoft thini
'Holy Trinity : I take this method of' iolerming citiz
yotij that the title of 'Pallor, Vffumed by that revo injtif
Tend gentleman, ia founded on the unjuil ufurpatiotl a fui
of my lawful title ; arrogated in manifed oppofuion hibii
to, and in open defiance bf the authority of the judg
Catholic.Church of which he is falfely styled a that
Pallor. 179;
PETER HELBRON, ed, 1
Pallor of the Trinity Church. cong
— . afpei
■ the i
coHnumtJfiovt. j
There ate four diftrifts in the E.'S. of MaTy- |^ a
land—in tbefe four diftriftl the following eharafters
are elected. The' Hon. .Judge Done, Gen. Jdhn
Ecclefton and John Roberts, Efqr». all firm friends
to the eonftitution of the United States, and good
federaUßs —the fourth elector is John Gilpin, Esq.
supposed to be anti-federal—thus on the Eastern
•Shore of Maryland, we have three out of four, fe-
detal electors—in Dorchester county tbe Democra- -
tic candidate had but one vote, in neariix hundred
that were polled at the cleft ion. ,
The jacobin faflion after being "repeatedly/oiled meß
by their efforts to amend our codfiitation, have for atro
the fake of. encreafing their number, coalesced with "P°
'the old tories, arid even condescended to place one \
of them at the head of their fcnbling department; la ' £i
knowing that an old tory will ever be true in hatred 7e "
to the very name of Adams, they run no risk in the a "°
instance. But the time has been when Mr. Jeffer
fon would have despised the praises of any political
turncoat. ~
'How can this cidevmt secretary, of the aboliti
on society, haps to deceive, by taking the faered T ? -1
pame of fedtlfalid —does he hope that this sheep.
Dcin will ever conjpleatly disguise the wolf—or that an
a-fnug vrig will ever cover this long caw, if he
does, he ■deceives himfelf only.
A TF.DiKAIIJT.
Mx- Ftitno,
1 observe in yoor gazette that a oidevant tory is
-attacking the writing! (reu/and supposed I )' and the
tharaSer as the Vice-President at the United States'.
Tkc circumftafice is in perfect coincidence with the
conduQ of the tory faction thro' the whole course
of the revolution—Mr. Adams it is well known
was the atlas of the *hig interest, and no man in
-America was so much feared and execrated by the
lories—their malignity is not extinct—at the late
«lection it was declared by some of the anti federa
lifts, thet they hated the very name of Adams. It
il now abundantly evident that the objections to
that man are founded in his peffevering attachment
to thofc principles which gave us our independence
—principles from which he never deviated—which
ke will support to the end of bis exiftence—maugre
all the intrigues of foreign agents and domestic
traytort—thia they know—and for thUthey oppose
kim.
The legislatures of the Tcveral dates are answer
ing the appeal to the people by citizen Adet, in a
manner that mull silence the enemies of our union,
peace and •iNDEl>iNP«t*c&. The legiHatures of
Hew York and New-Jersey, have entered the Pre
fident'a address on their journals, and every state in __
the union will doobtlefs Follow the example. Uni
ted, we Jiand.
The public CUH®»iTY has been excited by the
publications in the Aurora, relative to a long note
«f Mr. Adet, announcing to the government of the
"United States the fufpenGon of his fun&ioafc as mi
jiifter plenipotentiary of the French republic ; a
rote so very long as "to prevent its immediate jh<
jicatiaa." But to relieve in some degree the impa- j th
of the public, citizen Bache has had the j V'
goodness to publish" a sketch of its contents." In, 1
the mem time, it i« said, he has been working off :
privately, in pamphlets, the entire note, for the use £
of the chtfen friends of Ftench politics and French
< influence ; doubtless to be applied to the like patri- "V
otic purposes, as his edition of the British treaty be- A
fore it received the President's ratification. The
real patriots, the ftiends of American independence,
will be on their guard again ft the inOdious designs
of the devoted tools of a foreign power. Their g
examination of the note itielf, which has this morn
jng appeared in Mr. Brown's paper, will produce
this caution.
This long note appears to be occupicd in a de
clamatorjr detail of old complaints of the French (
jninifters against the United States. The minilter ,
goes back to the meraornblrtiays of Mr. Go rt, and )
roundly shargee the government of the United
States with a violation even of the letter of their 5
treaties with France. The eomplaints hang chief- j
ly on pretended violations of the 17th article of the (
commercial treaty. Mr. Genet's printed ccrref- ]
pondcnce witk Mr. Jsfferfon, in 1793, Iliows how ,
erroneously a French miaifter may that ar
ticle ; how erroneously he may interpret the plain
est and most incontrovertible laws of aat-ions; and
then raise upon his own errors a mass of complaints 1
a» indecent in terms as unfounded in reason. The
citizens of the United States have seen that corref
pondenoc, and thence may form a pretty cor reft idea
of the tenor of Mr. Adet's long note ; with this
difference, that while the pointed abuse from the
former miniftcr raised the indignation of every in
dependent American, his fpiritand vivacity yielded
fomearouft/uent : in reading thi noteof tl.elaJUT;
o'lv one feniiaient will be extitcd. , , tical ;
man, whose integrity is without a fta.n. charged
with dtfmubtion > His impartial
81l the belligeient powers, called a frretcr.M imp <aeroj
tiality? When they fee hil proclamation for pre- illg ,
serving our peacf, called, « a proclatnauon of t<f- troo,
dious neutrality ?" When they fee the American tarn
government charged with permitting tit fe era
lurts to violate the , 7 th article of the tr«ty^
France ? By its thicaner::s abandoning Yttntb p»- . 000
vateers twit's court, rf j*Jkc ? And what will they T
think when they fee these pourts, which tu! goad Arb(
citizens vener.itc, ftigmathr.cd as the lnftrumcnts of T
injndiee, oppieffton bad faith ?-But I forbear erv:
a further enumeration of the wanten reproaches ex- teW
hibited in this letter. Our cinVns wr l read and
fudge for thtrrffelves. They will paturtlly cont.u e j rflr(
that the measures of the gavernment fubfequentto p ort
1705, but founded on the principles then eftabhfh- A „fl
ed, and which in 1794 werefanftioned by-an aft of
congress, admit ol an easy vindication again" the
afpeifionj of a miiiifter who has ventured to noake T
the indecent and .graundlefs charge just recited. m rr
Two things-in the minider's note merit t>arttcu- fble
lar attention—his renewal of citizen Genet's info-
lent plan, of drawing a line of diftifftio* between m^r
' the tnernment and of the Ignited Statts,
atvd directly making his atldrefres to the letter ; and i Jr>
\ the approving maaner in which he introduces tne <luk
name of Mr. Jejfcrfvn -, for a purpafe at this mo- witl
ment which the citiiens of America will eaGly dii- «at
' cern. The conclusion of the ministers address to F
the people, is alike indecent, impertinent and pue-
, rile'. He doubtless imagines that a few paHio»ate tion
exclamations, a ia Frattcais, against Great- had
will atone for bis unworthy slander of the govern- and
■ meat, and blind the eye. of nut citizens to »il It* how
, atrocities committed and committing by the French
( upon our commerce, especially in tkttr Weft-India
Colonies, where their own general Rochairtbean ba .' and
lately informed us, and through the paper of citi
j zen Bache, are collected all the rascal* of the aid mar
. and new weild. not
. exec
1
1 Exaction Returns. the
Tke following is a eorreft ftatemenr of all th®
. votes given for the Eleftort, ?xc lufive of thof l
given in the counties of Weftmoreland, Fayet«» her
and Greene, «Wnich are not received. said
Robert Coleman ' J ll
Samuel Miles ii,97« f w ®
William Wilson 11.977
Samuel Poftlethwaita 11,977 f en
John Carson 11 »9T* Fre
B Israel Wheelen H»947 mai
f Henry Wynkoop 11 >93+ ' s f
( Tbomae Bull 11,924 <
j Benjamin Elliot 11,919 c f
■ Ephraim Douglaa 11 >9" v
n John Woodt ;, a
n JohaArndt M>9®s -of
Valentine Eckhart 11,900 bui
Thomas Stokely 11,888 th<
Jacob H»y li,?6t
*' ari
tt James Boyd li>OC9 p 0
:o Thomas M'Keao 40,984 W J
it John Whilehill 109,81 thi
:e John Srailie 10,977
h Abraham Smivk 16-971
re James Hanna 10,966
ic John Piper 10.966 R
fe Jacob Morgan 10,964 th
Peter Muhienberg '°>9J9
Joseph Heifter 10,959 so
ir- William Irwin 10,93 J m
1 a William M'Clay 10,897 pe
>n, Jonas Hartzel 10,817
of jaiaee Edgar 10 >5 2 3 w
re- William Brown *0»365 in
in . 811 l 1, -1-, - . . tl
Latest Foreign Intelligence.
he ®y the (hip Fame, -Captain Harrrs, arrived at Kew
ste *■ York, in 34 days from Londoa. tl
:he d
■ni- VENICE, September tj. ri
; a The instant general Buoaaparte arrived at Trente, li
lb|: he wrote to the government, desiring it might order r
pa- j the CommiiTaries of the Venetian part of Trioul tu n
the I P rt P ire provisions and forage for the French army. It »
j jis supposed from this raeafure that he intends to proceed
JL : 10 Tri«j|e, w here the French will find considerable ma
**" i gaaines. In confirmation of thit cotijeflure, a body of
u f £ French troops has already arrived at Feltrt. *
ach The successes 6f the French army have infpircd the
Jri- Venetian aristocracy with the greatest terror. As the
h e . Auftrians fly in all directions into th# territories of the
rhe Re P u hlic» and many even take refuge at Meftro. and
Fultina, the conquerors, it is feared, will puriue them V
as far as Lagwnes, and threaten Venice itfelf, Confi- r
S n , s derable reinforcements are lent to all the ports that v
heir guard the defiles. 1
3rn- . ,
luce FRANCKFORT, September 20. ,
The. Prince of Naffiu Siegen, who arrived at Pots
dam from Vienna, is on his return to Vienna. It is '
h thought, that his embassy wis to the fame purport, with 1
that of Mr. Hammond. A general Peace is considered
lltc J as the objetf, and the mediation of his Prnffian Majesty
3nd has been obtained for that purpose.
ited All the letters from Vienna and FragtJej'gSttfTtJflfltt.? 1
heir gence of the continual mareh of troops, and of new ,
bief- levie « in the hereditary states. Ten battalions from
" the GaUlcli have pa (led through Prague. Seventy-two '
rref CO F" UW of Hungary have offered to raise each 1000 '
' men. In Upper and Lower Austria, recruits are en
foow ro l| C( l with the greatest success.
it ar- - ,
lain- STUTGARD, September 18.
and A body,of Atiflrian troops has penetrated from
aints 1 Pforzheim, by Tiefenbrunn, to Wederftadt, where
The they a-e now establishing an encampment, from
irref- whence they detach powerful pat roles of cavalry' a -
idea long all the roads, One as these patroles, consist.
this iag of about lao hussar.as Veceay, and 3 t> hulans
the of Reglevich, commanded by captain count War
y in- moden, entered this place at eleven o'clock yefter.
sided day morning, with two hundred Fiench prifontrs.
September 22. l(M
' Tbe'fituiilon ti general Morenu fcecdmei> mo>e en- Ivefl
f tJcvery diy. -The Augfb,; gh Gazette ft.tes, that J
1 he ha* been wounded in one of the late •AieiW. , The agQ
1 day before yesterday he arrived at the head-quarters at col)
I At We7eain from Ratfibdnfthatcn the ißthmft.ge«e-
? ral Moreau was defeated by general
t Aieh and Neaburgh, "and that on the 19th the Aultn
Sans entered Donfwerth. This event ha, feemmgly res,
ccntrf'outed to the retreat of general Nioreau. du
8 An Anftrian cannoneer, 'who destroyed the bridge
* .aerofs the Lahn at the moment the Ire*b tr^ cr ° fl " Fre
" ing that river, ami by so domg,. cailfed 6000 French
- troops to be taken prisoners, was instantly made a cap-
1 -tain inthe army by the Arckduke.
/ I, IS confidently aflerted that the miliary chest which reU
, fell into the hands of (he Auftriaus at W urtzboarg,
. 'contained 150,300 livre, iaertwn pieces, and it,ooo,
1000 in mandats. . _r v_ii
f The pcafants of the'vallry «f Xinxtgj and of Vol con
Arberx, have taken arms against the French. 3 f
f The archduke Chailes has ordered-an army tn .b- >
X fervatioH of 18,000 tnen to be formed from Laugen
. teld to Papenheim, for <h* parpofe of cording Nurem- an
a berg, and protecting the inhabitants of Franconia. he
Martial de Pstsafch exerts him felt to obftniA Moreau s
C retreaU The Kfiiabis, and the defiles of the Black j
0 Forest, on the left bank of are occupied tjy the m
'j, Auftrians. rep
e BRUSSELS, 12 Fmdemaire, ORober 3. tl - e
e The whole army of the Sambri and Meufe has been
in motion tor these last eight days, without our be.ng
1. to giicfs at the motives and plans of the generais. to 1
Troops arr cosftantly arriving from the-Tight banks o mei
the Rhine on the left «f that river; and then they are ]
" mirched back to the right banks. Since the Bth mft- ,j, r
! ' (aath Sept.) the movements have become more regu
lar, apprehenfioas begin to be entertained, left the irch
ie <luk« Charles fcould tear down upon the Hundfruok P
)- with apart of the troops under his orders. Til-whole ced
f. centre -of the army which was encamped in different or
politions, from Cologne to Andernach, has received ten
orders to march to the Nahe, and troops are marching rec
day and night through Coblemz to their new deftinn- [ IQ ,
:e tion. The division of general CHampionct, which
had taken post behind the Sieg, has rerrofTed the K hine,
1. and prpcecds to the fame paint. The head-quarters,
« -however, Cntrrjrw,-wlrwmsft {.-g-j
(, generals are at present afiembled. We underitood, that j #f)
■ Hournonville was to repair to the Sieg to take upon
him the cemmandin chief of the armies of the-North,
" and of the Sanibre Meufe; and we were aflured, that 1P(
i- i t had been resolved in a general council of War, to cot
Id march the troops back to the Lahn, but, at yet, it does ing
not appear that these dispositions are likely to be toon r*fi
executed. . , , pax
The Auftrians have fallen back from the banks ef
the Rhine, eppofite to Bonn, where they made their ap- T
t pearance for federal <fay<* We know, how
-1 ever, that the enemy occupy a formidable eamp tw®
- z leagues from the Sieg. All the Belgian regiments of tot
«»' horse and foor are with the Archduke's army, and are do
said to fight ©n all occasions with theraeft obftlnate fury. ty
- The dragoons of La Tour are ftattd to have put to the r£C
sword in a late engagementon tha Lahn, awhole French
battalion entirely composed of Belgians and Liegeois.
The Auftrians hive lifewife eftabliflied a camp ef ob- wc
fervation in the plaint near Neuwied, to prevent the £>'
French from attempting any thing on that fide, by of
marching troops over the bridge near that city, which (
is still in their pofleffion. TI
On the 6th and 7th of this mortlh (17th and 18th of
September) two very fmaTt engagements are fuppofetj
to have tiken plr.ee on the rigit hanks of the Rhine, as
averv brifc cannonade was heard in that quarter. It
il at prerent extremely aulicujt to' Teirn the particulars"
of what happens on the right banks of that river. No
burghers ai e allowed to erois the bridge near Cologne i
the military alone'have leave to pass it. an
The reforms in the adminiftrati»ns and'offices of the .
arnny of theSambre and Meufe go cm apace. It is im
poffihl# to ferm an idea us the- crimes and robberies of
which a great number of coamiflaries have rendered
themselves guilty. ftj
COBLENTZ, September 17. a«
The pretended retreat of -the Auftriant towards je
Ratifbon, was unquettionably a mere feint for T
this morning the republican army abandoned ies po- ci
fitiens, and retreated partly towards the Sieg. The at
fortrefs of Ehrenbreitfiein m relieved : at nine this h;
morning, the enemy' 6 advanced guard made its ap- al
pearance near PfafFendoiff: the garrison of Ehrefl- ei
breititeio is already employed in demoli(hing the ei
works conftrufted by the trench, who are retreat- ai
ing precipitately. Onr advices from Treves, dated ai
• the 15th, ftite, that t4»e conltruftion of the tien- d<
chei is followed up with more energy than ever. 11
it
MENTZ, September j6. t<
ew- At day break this morning, trie republicans ut-. tl
tacked the whole line of our advauccd pefls, and tl
drove our pickets to within a fhert diflance of Ma- ii
rienborn : however, by the excellent dispositions of c
ate, lieutenant-colonel baroa de Corvofs, and the buve- it
rder r y of the treops, the enemy, although four times
J ' l9 more numerous than ourfelvrs, were turned before o
Bt^e ' rn » driven into their firft lines, with a
ma _ the loss of feversl men killed, and four made pri- [1
ly foners. On our fide, one tr.an and two horses were t
wounded. e
1 the (]
J 'the MANHEJM, September rg. i !
th 'j The arcHdnke Charles attempts to be beforehand *
with the French under Morean, in making himfelr t
onj - 1 _ maimer of the most important ports in Suabia, t
that w '>ich will make the retreat of that army to the 1
Rhine extremely difficult. The corps under gene- > t
ral Petrafch, which, after having advanced as far t
as Stutgard, divided itfclf into two columns, has
j gai»ed several advantages over general Scherer, and ]
made considerable booty.
iered i
yefty PARIS, j, •
We are aflured, that Kleber's resignation ha« not 1
iMTi- been accepted, and that th.- ikjn not perftfl is ie- 1
new quiring it ; but infiftt on the te-eftablilhment of
rtWo c 'P'' nc : an d that thedire&ory have resolved to
Icoo Hfe the raoft feverc measures for that purpose, <
■e en- Letters from Milan mention, that Buonaparte 1
ha* caused the house of Caftel Nuovo, on the Ve
netian territory, to be burnt t» the ground, and
on th« spot has put up a board with these words :
from " Here a Frenchman was afTafllnated."
vhere We hafe accounts from Mans, that while the
from Jacobiat at Paris are moving heaven and earvh to
Iry a- overturn the cenftitutioa of '95, thcChouans ofthc
>nfift. weft ate buying up powder Sc arms: will ne doubt
inlant take advantage of the general discontent againfl
War- a government that goes frons faction to faction:
efler. and if we m«y judge from these circumstances, and
sncrs. the infulcnce and convcrfations «f the Montagardcs
(Mountaineer*) we feern ftitl threatened with
J iVefh agitation*.
A reprefentati»e (Bellegarde) having a fe» days
ago ft ruck cftiien l'Auglois, in thecoiridorj of ;h =
council «f five hundred, occafiened a warm deb#' -,
whether it wa» not improper for a reprcfentati»c t j
be the editor of a public paper, which was refertcj
to a committe of five, namely, Sieyes, Camkacc
res, Dannou, Treilhard and Jourdan (des Bou.:-,
du Rhone).
The king of Pruflh has given leave for all the
French in hi* eftj'. c* to wear the natianai cockaile.
We have nothing official from the armies. Let.
ters from Munich (late, that Moreau continue! bit
retreat through the Brifgaw.
; LONDON, Oaoberj.
Yesterday the captain of an American veflcl was
committed to Tothillfields Bridewell, on suspicion
of being a spy from the French government. He
waa taken from on hoard hi) veflcl in the river by
an order from the secretary of state, before whom
he was examined yeftertUy morning.
Ofetober i o.
Some loose accounts were received-from Flandcra
on Saturday, which state the Freoch having been
repeatedly defeated in the Hundfruek, but that on
the Siegthey had obtained some partial advantage!.
Moreau is also traced in hi* retreat as for as T*-
bengen on tbe*Neckar, where he hoped to be able
to-make a (land, having received some reinforce
ments from France by way of Kehl.
Pretty well conne&ed letter* have been received
through <he above mentioned channel, from Italy,
of so lafe a date as the 19th Sept. by which it ap
pears, that in a sortie made from Mantua the pte.
ceding day, the Frcnch were reptllfed with a lots
of Yooomen: they had, moreover, fays theft let
ters, been compelled to retreat from Bozzen, and
recrofs the Neui* in confulion. Tbefe actoantg,
want confirmation.
, KJ&ober-ri,.
A yonng trench Emigrant is
cu fluiTy oTihe police, uj 01 oer «i tTTs dtfe of Pott
land, for having entered into a iptcihc agreement
1 with the Spamfli Ambaffadar to raise 1 j,ooo njca
' upon the Continent only, for the service of that
1 country. He was seized at 4 o'clock in the mon>-
s ing, and the papers were foui d sewed in the mat
-1 rafs cf hi* bed. He w*» formerly upon the half
pay of tiie reduced emigrant corps, but had the
.precaution jo throw it up previous to the Imputation
in-quell ion.
, Lord Cornwallts is erecting four batteries on C!a /-
f 'too beach, to command the entrance of the MnW
s 'don river, in Eflex ; and the gentlemen of that coun
ty at their Quarter SefGona on Wednesday hit, <Ji
e retted a volui.teer company conSlting of JOO i't'o
-1 manry, to be immediately raised and trained for
] working the guns of the said batteries, at five requeit
e of Lord Howard de%Valden, the X-ord Lieutensht
jr. of the said county.
h PROTEST OF EARLYITZWILLIAM..
The following protelt of earl Fiizvrilfiam, to Ihe
j late address of the house of lords to bis majcily,
re so interesting, on account of contzir.sßg the.
; t fentim.nts of tfyat highly refpeflahle nohl'pau,
ij- —in TCganJ'tD fKarkiirg - r "~-c 7"r rljT.l'Uc
9 think it necessary to infer* it at length—
4 Tbjp motion being made that tfie address (ia
answer to hi» majefty'* speech) da paf*.—lt paikd
' e in the affirmative.
BIS SENTIENT,
I ft, Because, by tills iddreft, wiamemleJ a* it
Hands, the fan£tionof the lords is given toaferiei
of measures a* ill-judged with rtgaid to their ebjfit
as they are derogatory from the dignity or" his ma- .
Is jetty'* crown, and from the konor of this kingdom.
>r The reiteration ef folicitatipns for peace, to a fpc.
3- cies of power, with whose very exiltence all fair
le and equitable accommodation is incompatible, can
us have tu) other efFedt than that, which it is notorious,
p- all oui solicitations have hitherto had. They mult
n- encreafe the arrogance and ferocity of the comma#
le enemy of all nations; fortify the credit,
t- and fix the authority of an odious government ovet
td an enslaved people ; they mnft impair the ce-i«fi
n- dence of all other powers in the magnanimity, coii
itancy, and fidelity of the Biitilh counftls; and it
ia much to be apprehended it will inevitably ten
to break the spring t<f that enerjry, and to lower
It. that spirit which has 'M<3 formn tuwt.
nd thi* high-minded nation, and which, far from tin •
ia- ing under, misfortune, has even rrfen wiib the dim
of cuhies and danger* in which our country has been
le- involved. ~
>es 2d, Because no peace, such as may be capable
;re of recruiting the strength, economizing the oieanß,
ith augmenting the refugees, and providing or t e
iri- f.fety of thi* kingdom and its inseparable eonpec
rre tioss and dependencies, cpn be had with the u '"P*
ed power now exetcifinjf authority in France, sn°
dering the deicription, she charafler, an t
dufl of thafe who compose th?t government, t"
nd methods by which they have obtained their p°w •
felt the policy by which they hold it, and the
lia, they have adopted, openly pi aft fled ar, . " rl ®
the afled on, towards the de-ftruftion of a. g ,
ne- . merts hot formed on their model and fubfcrvie
far theirdomination. . .
has 3d, Becauff the idea that thi. kingdom »fs •
tnd petent to defend itfelf, its laws, liberies, a
gion, vmder the general fubjngation of a 1 1
is piefumptuous in the extreme, contra 1 P
- the supposed motives for our pretest C °2 C |'
not tions for peace, and is certainly C ""V_
(loading .pcUry both .<}£ ilaf 6 - .« •
of which Great-Britain hv flounM
to 4 th, while the common en.mf «
cifo iiis power over the several state of EajP
irte the way we have feco, it it ' e .
Ve- serve our trade, or, what cannot
and our naval power. This hostile fy
ds : keys of the dominißn* of these pow- » -j.
any consideration of their fnenOfhip, (| tft
the or their neutrality ; prescribes .aws e
to conquered provinces; mul£H ® n '' , uar .
the plea lure ; forces them, wither any
linfl expels us from such ports and a* under
»n: fit; infwmsch tlia: (Europe iu ' a " we c» g
and present flavety) there i» |in har-our i •
rdes enter without her pernsiliio«i ellbl ' lcial or naval cWafter, Th« gowrd iotudlA je£
cannot be begged off ; we m.ift relill it by our Th
power, or we are already in a (late of vassalage. wi
c.h, Because, whilst thi» usurped power (hall has
continue thus constituted, aßd thus disposed, no t
frctiritv wha.wt can be hoped for in our eolon.es not
aud plantations, those invaluable sources of »ur ria
rational wealth and our naral power, lhu war tha
hat (hewn that the power prevalent in prance, by uv
intentionally disorganizing that ?!»«<»"' £
(which France had in common with all other fc.u ver
ropean nations) and by inverting the order and £r
relations therein established, has be«n able with a
naval force, altogether contemptible, and with ve- co;
rv inconfiderablc succours from Europe, to baffle p„
;J« oreat measure the moll powerful armaments pr<
,»er sent from this < ®untry into the- Wfft 'V ldl "'
and at an cxpenc: hitherto and has, gri
bv the ft»r<re of example and by the effect ps her rat
machinations, produced, ,t little or no expence to fer
herfelf, either of blood or trcature, amverfal defo- y
]ation l.d ruin, by the general of every sol
thine valuable it necessary for cultivation, through- C oi
PUt several of our islands, lately among the moll m t
flouri(hing and produce. The new system, by vil
which these things have been effected, leave our co
lonies equally endangered in peace as .n war It
is thettfore with (hi. general fylem (ps which the
Wsfl-India scheme is but a ramification) that all
antient eftablifhmeuts are essentially at war for the ]
f £tTt been declared from the g
throne, and in effcft the principle ha, been adopted die
by parliament, that there was no way likely to ob- he
tain t peace, commonly fafe and but ro
through the antient and legitimate government long
' established in France. That government in its law- dui
fulfuceeffion has been folewnly recognized, anrf [h ,
.ffiftance and ptoteftion as solemnly proofed to v.f
those Frenchmen who lh«uid exert themlelves m #f
Jt. federation. The political opinion upon which no
this vecoe**tion was made, is very far from being Bu
weakened by the conduct of the new-invented go- «h.
,ernme«*. Nor are our of good Taith,
pledged on ftic'u ftrorig motives" of policy to thole
who have been found in their allegiance, diflolved ; mi
' nor can they he so, until fairly diredkd efforts have h«
been made to secure this great fundamental point. a [
None have yet been employed with the imalleft de- f 0
jrree of vigour and perfcverance. «"
* 7 th, Because the example of the great'change ™
piacie by the ufarpauon in the moral and political
world (more dangerous thirt all her conque#») is >]
by the prcfent procedure confirmed in all its force.
It is the firft fuccefsful example furniftied by history
of the subversion of the antient government of a pj
eteat country, and of all it* laws, orders, and re- ge
licrion, by the corruption of mercenary armies, and «
by the feduftion of a niultitude, bribed by confu
tation to feditios, in defiance of the sense, and to ne
the entire deftruftion of almost the whole proprie- g»
lory body of the nation. The fatal effe&s of this
•sample must be felt in «very country. New means,
*«w arms, ne* pretexts are furnifhed to ambition ;
•lid sew perfonsare intoxicated with that poiion. °*
Bth, Because our eagerness in suing for peace J"
may induce the persons exercising power in France j,
•rroneoufly to believe, that we aft froi» necessity, th
annate unaETe to continue the war, a penuafion,
which, in the event of an actual peace, will operate va
as a temptation to them to renew that condafi g <
vhicK Wrought on the prefeot war; neither Siall hi
ve have a*y of the usual fecuitics in peace. In "
their ttejities, they do not acknowledge the obliga
tion of that law which for ages bar been cemftion gr
to'all Europe. They have not the fame sentiments le
por the fame ideas of their interest in the preset va-
tion of peace, which have hitherto influenced all
regular governments; they do not in the fame w
wanner feel public distress, or the private misery of
theii fiibjffts ; they will not find the fame difficulty ti
on the commencement of anew war to call their tc
whole fbrfre into fad den action, where, by the law,
•very citizen iaa soldier, and the persons and pro- o
perty of all are liable at once to arbitrary requifi ,r
tions. On other hand, no attempt has been
made to (hew in what manner, whether by alii c '
■nces, by force, military or naval, or by the im- '
jprbvement and augmentation of our finances, we
stall be better able to refill their hollile attempts «>
after the peace than at jhe present hour. If we
Temaiti we cannot reap the ordinary advan t(
tagif of peace in economy ; If we disarm, we shall C
be fubjeft to be driven into a new war, under every
cireumftance of disadvantage, unless we now pte-
pare ourselves to fuffer, with patience and fubmif-
6on, whatever insults, indignities, and injuties we \
jnay receive from tkat insolent, domineering, atid
unjtift power.
9th, Because the inability of humbling ourselves ,
again to solicit peace in a ftianfier, which is a recog ] 1
filiation t>t the Ftench republic, contrary to alt j j
k » the principles of the war, the danger of peace, if I ,
obtained, the improbability of its Juration, and the ! j
perfcverance of the enemy throughout the interval
of peace in their mifchitVous system, is not corjqc-
ture, but certainty. It has been avowed by the (
adual governors of France at the very mbment they 1
bad before them our application for a pafTport. 1
They chose that moment for publishing a Rate pa- !
per; breathing the most hoflile mind. In it they 1
Simulate and gnad us, by language the mod op
probrious and offenfivtj. They frankly tell us, that |
it is not our interest to desire peace, for that they (
regard peace only a* the opportunity for preparing i
frtih means for the annihilation of our naval power. 1
By making peace they do not conceal that it will \
be their ofcjeA—" to wrest from us our Maritime
preponderancy—to re-eflablifh what they invidious- <
ly call the freedom of the seas—to give a new im- '
pnlfe to the Spanish, Dutch and French marines— ,
and to carry to thehigheft degree of prosperity the ;
inieflry and commerce of those nations," which 1
they state to be our rivals, which they charge us '
with " unjustly attacking, when we can no longer
dupe," tnd which they throughout contemplate as <
their own dependencies, united in arms, and fur- 1
rifhing resources from our future humiliatioa and \
dettru&ion. They resort to that well-known and 1
ronftant allusion of theirs to antient hiflory, by I
which reprcfenting " France as modern Rome, and j
England as modern Carthage"—they accuse ui of
national perfidy, and hold England up f as an «b-
je£ ifi be blotted ont from the f*c& of the eartfc. '
They falfly afTert that the English nation tupports ™
vvith impatience the continuance of the war, and t0
has extorted all his majefly's overtures for peaee,
«« by complaints and reproaches," and above a I
not only is that pafTage, but throughout their offi- vo
cial note, they *iew the most marked adhtrence to 0 f
that insidious and intolerable policy of their system,
by which they, from the commencement of their ™
revolution, Wght to trouble and subvert all the go- m
vernraents ia Europe, They ftudiuufly disjoin the
English nation-from its foverrign. '
1 Oth, Because, having ailed throughout the w ,
cpuife of this awful and momentous crisis upon the
principles herein exprcfled, and after having on the
present occasion, not only reconfiJered, and jea- Vi
loufly examined their foundnefi and validity, but {h
gravely attended to, and fcnipulonflv weighed the R
merits of all those arguments which have been of b)
fered to induce a dereliflioß of therS, conscientious- w
ly adhering to, and .firmly abiding by them, I thus bl
solemnly record them, in juftification of my own i j B
Cor,du&, and in discharge of the duty I ovfe to j lo
mp king, my country, and general interests of ci- fcj
vil focitty. . _ f"
WENTWORTH FITZWILLIAM. G
, th
O&jber 1. r
ARMY OF ITALY.
Buontparte, General in Chief of the Army of Ttsly, to the
Exccuuve Dircftory. 0 j
Hoad-Quarteri of Due Caftelli, 30th Fru&icJor (Sept. \6.) w
" 1 gave you information, citizen Directors, in my lait w
dispatch, that gen Wurmicf, obliged to abandon Baflant,
flrd in perfoPH with the wrecks of tv*o battaiiona of grena-
diers of Moritebello, between Viccnia and Verona, whert c( ,
he had rejoined the division he had ordered ro march to Ve- CT
rona, 4500 cavalry, and $©<»o infantry, the moment he knew h(
• that ! was preiiiug on toTrerit. Q l
»• The 23d, the divifwnof gen. Angereau arrived at Pa- g(
dua. i'heycolli*&ed together the wr«k» of the baggage of q
the-Auilnan arnny, and 400 men who cfcorted it. The di- £
1 vision of Maifcna arrived at Yiccazjl Warm for hnn
, felt between the Adigeand the Brenta, because two diviftons
«f tii« aroiv fliut up inepafTage from him There remained
1 no other rrfouro- for him than to throw himfelf into
; fiat haviog fo.re(eer», from th-moment of my quitting Trjn:, | {
. this movement ot gen. Wurmfer, I left in Verona the general
of division Kilmaine, and planted artillery upon thcramparu
0 of «ne place, n
« General Kilmaine, with his usual sagacity, kept ene- -
1 my in c'heck forty-eight hours, reputfing them by the fire ot
. his artillery every time they attempted to penetiate. I had
oftly been aoW to leave him forces too inadequate to controal
' a populous town, and to rcpulle a numerous aimv, that bad
■ so many Teafons 10 spare nothing that might render them
matters of so important a p:ace. He praiic* highly the com-
, inanderof batta.ion, Muiroo, who the artillery
1 there. / v
44 The 23d, in the evening? gen. Wurmfer learnt the arriv
4 al of the division of ge«». MaiTena /it Vicenza. He felt that
he h»ad not a moment mote to lose. He ddilcd along the *A
dige, which he crossed at Porto Legnago.
•' The 14th, in the evenings the division of gefi. MafiTena
I pafleel the Adiweat Ronco, in <lie time that the division of
- gen. Angereau marched from Padua to Port Legnago, being
\ neceflitaced to inform his left, that the enemy might not try
to f*ve them'elves by Caftel Bardo.
" The 'sth, at dawn, I gave orders .to the division ps
3 neral MalTena to march to Sanguinetto, to bar the paflfage a
. gainst Wutm.er. General Scnuguet, with one brigade, mar- t
d ched to Caileltwo, and had orders to cut dowrt all Aebridg- K
esacrofs the Wollinella.
» SATrLE OF CEREA.
5 uTo go from Rouco lo Sanguinetto, there are two roads;
one of which leads trom Ronco, pafleMO the, left, follow,
Adigc, and joins the road of Porto Legnago at Mao- '
fua. Ihe second le«ids dirc6lly from Ronco to Sanguinetto. >
c Jr was that which (hould have been taken,: on the contrary,
X to the ajJU Cen. Mur3u^at jJie-heAd-of £usae hun- - j
dr?ll light horle, arrived at Cerea and encountering the head
' ol Wurmier's division, he overthrew fomc Iquadrofs of C -
e valry. t Gen, Pigeon, commanding ihe advanced guard oi
gen. MafTena, finding the eavalry eugaged, hurried on wiih
|] hi& light-infantry co luftain there. He passed the village, and j
n took poffeflionof the bridge, across which the enemy of nt- 1
celfity were to pafc.
" The corps of, the division of gen. Maflena were yet nt l
n great diflance. After an instant of astonishment and alarm.
s Idlt by the division of Warmfer, that general made his dif»
positions, overthrew our advanced giurd, $nd retook the ,
bridge and the village of CGrca.
II 44 I had marched thereat the firft report of canncn, but it
e was too late. We njuit make a bridge of gold to an enemy
t f thai flies, or oppole a barrier of steel. It was necessary to
relolve to allow the enemy to escape, whofrom every cakola-
Y tion, and by every probability, would be obliged that day
ir to lay down his arms and surrender himf?lf prisoner.
41 We continued to rally our advanced guard, aud returned
half the way from Cerea. We found, on the field
of battle in the morning, more than an hundred of theNbne
-1 my killed, and wcjnadc 250 prifoncrs. We'are indebted to
n the courage of the Bih batialion of grenadiers, and to., the
[. coolncfs of brigadier general ViAor, that escaped so well
from a combat (o unequal.
B VMLE OF CASTCLARO.
re 44 Wut.mfcr defiled all the night of the 15th towards Man
tft tui, with such rapidity that in the morning he arrived early at
/e He learned that the bridges ot the Molinella were
cu - down, and that a French division waited for him at Caf-
Q " tcllaro. He saw that it would be indiscreet to try to force
in Caftellaro, becaule at the dawn wt were in pursuit ©f him.
ry 4 * I yet hoped to find him engaged with general Schuguet,
e bat unluckily Vie had not cut down the bridge of Villa Impen
.. ta on the Molinelli, at the diltauce of a league to bis right.
'** Wurmkr had. defiled by that.
Ve 44 Ihe moment general Schuguet knew his paflage, he sent
some horse to harass aud retard his march ; but he had too
tew troops to fuccced.
44 General Ch»rton, with three hundred men, was fvir
e» rounded by a regiment of Cuiriffiers—lnftcad of polling
g. | themfelvet in the ditches, these brave men determined boldly
a jj ;to face the cuiraflier., ; but after a vigorous resistance they
if ! vvcrc * urroun<^e< i- Gen. Charton was kit lea in battle, and
three hundred men ir.ade prisoners, among whom wa* l!)u»
he gouletof the 13th hall brigade of light infantry.
ral TAKING OF PORTO LEGNaGO.
" Gen ' arriving the 24th before Porto Legnago,
' inverted the place. Gen. MafTena sent thither the brigade of
IIC *«• Vi&or, to invefl it on the fide of the Adfye. After
ey tome parley, the garrison, 1673 strong, furrenderad them
rt. fclves P rlfon « f s ot war on the 17th. We found there
P' eces ordnance with their carriages and waggons ;
an'i the jo® men rpade orifonera by Wurmfer in the battle of
ey Cerea, who by this means were delivered.
ft- BATTLfc Of DUE CASTELI.
iat , M tßth, the division of gen. out at day
break, from Cafleliaro towards Mantua, by the road of Due
y Ciftdi, by feizmg the fauxbourg St. George's to compel the
ng enemy to enter the place. The cngagema>it began at noon—
tr. it was too eagerly commenced. The filth half brigade loft
'ill r " ' did not arrive in time. Themimerouscavalry
of the tnemy confounded our light-infantry ; but the brave
nc 3?d fnltained the combat 'till night, and we remained mast-
Lil- cis of the field of battle, two mi!e» distant fiom the Faux
m_ bourg St. George.
G""* 1 Schuguet, after having inverted the Citadel, at
t,. UC . . j ht '» v< jr u «- Already he obtained the greatefl fneccls,
lie and had taken from the enemy three pieces of cannon, when
ch be obliged to fall back and abandon the artillery he had
us t,ken '
BATTLE OF ST. GEORGE'S. ,
" In the mean ume, the |Hn!an», Hussars and Cuirassier.
as of the enemy, flulhed withthit flight luccefs, inundated the
ir . country. General MalTena laid arnbufcadti for them, whicn
B(J ob.ained a fuccef. th« more happy, as it (et our light infantry
j M work with them. Vie killed sr took about 250. The
"d Cu.raffier. were lafe, at least from musket (hot. The enemy
by had at least three hundred wounded. It was ir. little
nd ciitcki (hat gca. Mjffeoa displayed great firmnefs >H rallying
j. hu troops, an-l recondatting thtni to the battle.
" General Kilmaine, at the head of the »oth dragoons,
(topped the cheiuy, aud by that did great service. Vhefe
baf'l, which in reality wcr; only Wlsug* S r «* "
confidence to our tncmv. We were lo augme ot fcl»to) e.ery
pofTible means ; for no grater happuuft could chance thsu
to drive the enemy ton feriow afftir-feeyond the raiuuarts.
" Gen. MafTeni took, on thenijjht of the *Btb, » position
behind. (>n the morn>w, at day-bietlr, we leaned that the
enemy had d-awn out nearly all the girnfon to defend the fa
voriteattd St. George's, and by fodemjr to prtlerve the means fr.
1 of retting forage for their numerous cavalry, U3
" At two o'clock in the afternoon, gen. Bon, proviforily ru
' An H ereau, who ts tll, arnv- v ,
ed from Gouttrnolo a!bng the Mmcio, and attacked tbe ene- fl£
my posted at St George's, on our left. ,• Ed
: » Gen Saloette hafteLcd to cut off the communication ot
the Favorite with the ritadel. . ..
» Geh. Pigeon, parting by Villa Nova, was to turn . plain, tl
: where the cavalry of the enemy could manoeuvre, and to cat ell
: off the communication from the Favorite to St. George s.
* • < While these different attacks were commenced, genera, pj
Vi£l#r, with the 18th half brigade of Battle,.in close column w;
by battalions, at tRe head of his divtfion, marched aga.nll , e;
: the enemy. The 3 s<! half btigade, supported b<f g e »" a ' E:
: kilmaHne, « the head of tw» regiment. ..f eavalrv, marched
by ibe tight to recbive the enemy, aid pu(h them On the lide
where general Pigeon was. .
" The battle began on all fides with great spirit. The Bih
5 bstialionof grenadiers, placed in. the v.it, ana led by the ad- ou
1 I jutant general Lcclcrc a.,d my aid-du-carap Marmont, per- D.
il farmed prodigies of valour* r ,
I *« The 4th half brigade, who on the left had begun the ca
" battle, attracted the particular attention of the enemy, who
found themftlve* penetrated in the centre. We carried at.
George'*. A fquadrou_of cuirafliers charged a battalioMO
thr 18th, which received bayonet fixed, and made pn-
ioners of all who furyived the charge.
44 We have made in tbi* battle 2©oo prifoneri, among
c whom are a complete regiment of Cuirafliers and a omfion rr
of Hulant. The enemy mult i»ve had ajoo men killed or
wounded. fWe We taken #5 piece* ot cannon, wilh their be
waggons attached.
'' " Among our wounded, on the tßth arid tstn, are ?' Pi
* Victor, Gen. Benin, G«n. St, Hilaire, Gen. £
t ed going to the aftftaoce of a. soldier charged by one Of the
" enemy's cuiraiter*, Cen. Morat, (lightly wounded, Laones
v head of brigade Tailed, head of battalion, Leclerc, head
of brigade, of the toth regiment of light horle, was wcOnd- K
ed charging at the head of his regiment -fn the aftair of the Si
*|IU. The chics of brigade of the 18th, who had hii hone th
(hot under him in the affair of Baffano, diftingutihed himfelt
particularly. Sucket, head of battalion of the xßth, wa»
wounded on the Jt£th, fighting at fche head of his
d baaalion. No one of the genera! officerl is dangerously
wounded, and I hope wc shall not long be deprived of their V
7 services. . f J
H Tfcusif she gairifon of Mantua b»* been reinforced by
Li rtcuiy 5<»oo infamfy, 1 reckon tbac the battle of St. George s
may have colfe them an equal number Alto the cavalry, it
\ is accefSon to hc embarraiTmentand conUimmateaalL
* 1 co net doubt that Wurmfer Jwill use every pofldble ef
. fort to get outof Mantua with them.
\ " Since the 16th of the month we have been constantly
fighting, and always the fame men againfl new troop*. Ihe
71 enemy, who?* we have nearly destroyed, was then very for-
1 midable—it appeared also thar they thad hostile dcfigns, but
we have prevented them, and fUrprifcii them at the time they
j y were making their movement.
41 I fend you ray aid-de-camp Marmont, bearer of
* flags from the Auftrians. BUONAPARTE."
u • "" 11 '
g ' Philadelphia^
1 , 1
TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 28, 1796. J
c-
a- His Excelleocy John Hoskiws Stoni, Esq. is unani
r- moufly elected Governor of Maryland by the I .egifiature
S~ of that State.
ELECTORS.
The State of Maryland choofe# ten Eleftonof Pre-
s ' fident and of the United States. We ,
a '_ ire aflTureJ that fevea ou: ef this number are firfn
a- Ftdcralifls.
y,
fixt,-»a of a letter from Fort-Roy*!, (Maniniijue,)
,d Oatcti October u, 1796. ,
J- -
si " The mortality t'.iat prev i!;, here among the array, na
ih vy and inhabitants is almost beyond conception. It ap
ui pear, from the returns that there have died in the army,
ic- from the firft of .".pril la.lt to the firft of September, 5650.
A company of artillerymen whieh confided of 130, loft in
: a the month of Atiguft 61 meR, and out of 13 officers, there
died —ted their lof. of men among the (hipping here
"* is not less for the Majtftic loft'by death in
k c the space of fix weeks 215 of her ofiicers and men—at St.
L-icia it is raid to be more sickly if poßiblt than at this
" nUc4. 1 was informed yesterday that there vras but about
5«o a* St. Lucia fit f»r duty, and that Abercromby't army
was confiderei asknock'cl up."
»y «i
cd BAZKITE OF THI DNITtD STjITSS KAItIHE LIST.
■!d
't 0 PHILADELPHI si.
he —i
ell AU RIVED. Days
Ship Bacthus, Robbing Hamburg 59
in. Enterprise, Nones ditto (
Goddess of Plenty, Nefbit Port-au-Prince
cre JEriel, Ferris Martinique
r a cc Lucy,, Reft Char left on
1. Pennsylvania, York Bordeaux 64
«> Arethufa, M'Keown Amsterdam
c h " t " Brig Carolina, Clark ditto 14
Jenny, Alcorn Madeira
ent Twins, Kecler St. Croix 33
to ° Sclir. Eagle, Denny ' Port-au-Prince
„ r . Murfqueto, Harfhaw Jeremie 23
ing Delight, Pierce Cape-Nichola-Mole 24
il y Eagle, Scellers Chatleflon 15
Sloop' Commerce, Ofborn New-York 4
j u . Ship Profpcrity, captain Craig, arrived at Lon- ,
don about tbe 25th September. The Fame, cap
tain Jones, paded Gravtfend the jth O&ober, for
London. Th* brig Abigail, captain Phelan, was
ftcr fafe arrived there, and the ship Alexander Hamil
m- ton, captain Kirkbride, had arrived at Liverpool
92 about the 3d October, all from Philadelphia.
. 0 J Ship Eagle, captain Fofdick, was to fail from
London about the 12th ult.
The ftiip Old Tom, of Philadelphia, failed from
Kinjjfton, Jamaica, on the 6th ult. for ;his port,
the Captain Glover, in the schooner Ranger, arrived
here the 15th instant, spoke the brig Eliia, captain
loft Horn, in lat. 22, long. from Charleiton bound
to Jamaici, out 18 days, all well,
aft- New-Yorx, No*. 19.
"*• Arrived at this port. Days
Ship Merchant, Rofleter Bristol and Fayal 29
e j S) Maryland, Sprake Bordeaux 30
hen Mary Ann, Loting Amfterdatn 57
had Mercury, Brown Bencelen, E. indies 110
Brig Flora, Bower Havannah 21
iers Schr. Apollo, H©well Coast of Guinea £4
the Amelia, ——— Barbadoes 57
llc " Three Anns, Richarth Malaga 45
rhe New-York, of New-York, ftom Cadiz, is
my captured by a Briufh 74, and sent to Halifax,
ule The Joseph, fr»m this port, is arrived at Dublin.
W S Tli« Ganges is arrived at Cork.
)lUi The ]»diiftry and the Columbia arc si lived at
itfe London—The Brifcis is arrived at Weymouth.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
NEW-YORK. NovemiJMM.
Captain Cobb, of the ftip H.i/cn, arrive.: yefiertlay
from Cadiz, which he left the 9 th Q&ehc~.
us, that, about the ioth September, tne opaniih l.c .r,
consisting of near forty lail,. leit that _ I roour, t..i
with the intention, as was supposed, or join y a f i cncu
fleet in the Mediterranean, The British v > * r?t*iam
ed still embargoed, and the captains and crc-.-s ;«av.ag
them, a« no profpe<s\ of accopi-T'Odatjop v/ithlhe P««i
tifli court appeared to be near at hand. This is ihe lit- .
eit intelligence from Spain.
Mr. linaidi, the American eonful, had engaged hia
pafTage with captain Cobb, for this country 5 vho
waited two d,ays for him, and was then obliged to
leave him. '
Ejctrafl of a letter from MefTrs. 1 erty and Co. dateci,
Malaga, CVlober 13, to their rorrefpondenta in thi»
city. < ■
w HOSTILITIES having atfually commenced on
our part againtt England, we expeiS, that Wis vtay
day WAR wnl be formally DECLARED."
The above is tine day later than the intelligence by
captain Cobb, froro Cadiz.
Brook Watson, esquire, the British commiflary ge
neral during the iaft war in this country, and lately 00
the continent ps Europe, ha« been elected lord mayor
of London.
Talleyrand Perigord, late bishop of Autun, had ar
rived in France, and was immediately appointed secre
tary of the National Institute. of which he is a mem
ber.
The Amphion frigate, of 34 guns, lately blew up at
Pertfmouth. The eaptain (J. Pcllew, brother of fir
Edward) and a fewotners, were the only persons sav
ed from the whole crew.
Oft Saturday evening arrived, the French corvette
Ranger, of 14 guns, in a fhart pafiage from Brest.— „
She is said to bring difpatcfici—aud the report also is,
that (he brings a NEW commission for citizen Adet, as
minifternear this government. On her pafTage, (he
had a BaUsH with an English aimed brig—from cer
tain circumstances, fuppol'ed to have been the Swallow *
(brig) packet, which failed from Falmouth a few day 9
after the Princess of Wales packet, now in this har
bour.
. r - ■ 1 ■-- — rs~t~ —l— " ■ - - . —'
Pantheon,
AND RICKETTS's amphitheatre,
For Eqjjestrian and Stags Performances,
Corner of Chefhut and Sixth-streets.
TO-MORROW EVENING, Wednrfday, Nov. »j,
Will be presented,
A grand ancf manly display of
HORSEMANSHIP,
tSy the equestrian company.
A Ballet Dance, called,
The TWO PHILOSOPHERS.
A Dilh of all Sorts, ot Every Man to his own Tavern,
a coinx song. By Mr. Durang.
in the course of the entertainments, Mr. Chamberi
will sing the hunting song of "The Twins of La
tona." A comie song, by Mi ft Sully, (being her
e second appearance in this city.)
The whole to conclude with the grand pantomirtie of
The DEATH of CAPTAIN COOK.
Days of Performance to be Monday, Wedaef-
E day, Tliurfday and Saturday.
A Capital Sale at Au&ior:.
_______ \
bftTHimsDAY NEXT, the 24th inflant, at Mr.
Morris's back stores in Taylor's-alley, near Front,
between! Chefnut and Walnut-ftree'.s, will be fold,
by the bale and in lots,
A Quantity of
Frefli imported Woolens }
V CONSISTING OF
' S5 Bales Rose and Striped Blankets, assorted, about
n 3?1. sterling each.
3 Ditto Point ditto,
■j »4 Ditto Flannels, Baizes, aad Swanfltlna.
t xp Ditts Coatings, mixed and blue.
' 1 Caf:s Hosiery.
Printed Catalogues df Ihe ahove will be funded-Cut at
the fuafcriber's store, and the Goods opened for inspec
tion the day previous to the Sale, of which the terms
will be approved Notes at feventy-fivi days.
JOHN CONNELLY, AufUoneer.
November ai. _
This Day is Published,
'a In an oflavo pamphlet, by J. ORMROD, No. 41*
Chefaut-ftreet,
An Authentic 7 ranflation of ■
A NOTE
From the Minifler of the French Republic, to tit
Secretary of State of the United Statu.
4. Nov. la. f
4 Just Published,
. By MATHEW'CAREY, at No. 118, Matket-ftreet,
3 PART FIRST OF
AN ADDRESS
'To the Electors of the President of the
5 ' United States,
4 First published in the Gazette of the United States, ia
i- a series of papers under the signature of
"A FEDERALIST."
ir Containing fotme ftriiflures ola Mr. Adams's De
fence of the American Constitution*, and on the ,
'* Eflays of Phocion, since published without that
'• lignature, in a pamphlet entitled " The pretentions of
jl Thomas Jefferlon to the Presidency examined, and
the charges agaiaft John Adams refuted."
n Nov. ia. [|j
n In the Press,
An I speedily will be publiflied,
(By WILLrAM COBBETT, oppofitc Christ Church)
Ihe Gros Moufqueton Diplomatique j
_ OR,
Diplomatic Blunderbuss:
Containing Citizen Adet's Notes to the Secretary of
State, as also his Cockade Proclamation ; with a nrefatr
rt By PETER PORCUPINE. Nov. 11 P J
9 - V'
° For Sa ' e or Charter,
0 Lady Wajhington,
1 Built in New-Engla«d in 1700, and
completely tepaired the present year; fte i, ton.
•* burthen; ha 6 llawed JIJ hhd». of feed, and"r 4 ,000 M
/ staves, and is now in good order to perform an European
5 voyage with little eipenfe. For particulars and terms
is of payment apply to the master on board, or to
Samuel Coates,
»• No. 81 South Front-street.
Also, on board fatd yejfcl, for sale,
»t Forty hogsheads Newbury Rum.
November %t,'
A few Pipes of WTNE, 1
iir.T>orted in the bri,* FAME, from Madeira, to be fold RAN,'
by MO RD EC A I LEWIS,
<."\VI O has alfe to Jifpofe of on reasonable trtms, old ; af>o
JKI?H LINENS, well af&.rted colt, wit
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS a ? r ! pe u d
WIDE NANKEENS , "
COSSA? AND BAFTAS .
RAVENS DUCK
DIAPERS !L, in ...
QUICKSILVER 8 '
CHINA
ROLL BRIMSTONE, ,&c. Eaflon
Oher 17. j tawira
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76^
HIGH-STREET,
1 Was received by the late ar. vals, Sold ly
A Well Selectfc! Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and c
? Haberdashery Goods Fo r rain
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, «n the •■•ery the L
low eft terfflj ; fcflion
Amongji hubtcb are Ec'r.uy
Stme elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and CotWns, new Berks,
pattcrni t'i" ' * !
Ditto Furniture ditto 1 ,
Ditto Dimity ••
Tamboured, Book, aftd ja'onet Huflins 2 * j
♦ Ditto in Gold and Silver - ' oq d
' Ditto Neckcloths, very fine d
. Mantuas of the firft quality soo <J
6ilk and Cotton Hosiery ■ goo c
Umbrellas of the firft quality, assorted j" j
lrifh Linens, very fine, and Table Liner.s
Marfei'fles and Cotton Counterpanes trfjftfbtf; ' 5 1
Rcfe Blankets assorted—he, &c.
o<9ob<>r 36 d f>4eo c
-\V. Young, Mills, and Son.
Have for Sal'', a •-ipe afiortment of
"PRINTING and WRITIN G PAPERS
Which will include joo reams of fine demy wore print- fc .
ingpaper, k ,
Imperial Folio and Qnauo Poll, gilt Drawjn
Super-Royal Small Fol.o Poll, plain, o |, or p
Royal Ditto gilt p ju
Medium Bloflom paper aiforted *y,/^A
•Qtsxf • Transparent Folio Post JT'J P '
Thick poll in folio fcu;j.finc&common foollcap James
Ditto ill 4to Marbled papers ietajli
Extialargc foßo Poll f COARSE PAPERS. Reld
Ditto 4to ' London brown affoited
fcolio Poll wove Log-book paper Tick
Quarto ditto paper above <
Tolio wovr post lined Stainers paper ing of
Quarto ditto do. Common brown arc rcc
Ditto'giltd". Patent £hcathi»g paper tering;
Common size Folia' Poll Bonnet boards oa(
' Ditto quarto plain Bookbinders boards.
AtSO, f 1
A variety of other Stationary Articles : will
Viz Wedgwood and glafi philosophical lnkllands, well day
affo ted, pewter ink-chcilsof various sizes, round pewter
ink-flands. papet', brass ar.d polished leather ink-ftaqd* for _
the pocket, fhifling sand and sand boxes, pounce _
and pounce boxes,-ink and ink-powder, black leather and
red morocco pocket books with and without inttrumcnts
of various sizes, counting-houle a«d pocket pen-knives as 7 S
thebeft quality, aMkin tablet and memorandum becks,
red and coloured wafers, common size office do quills ! . •
from half a dollar so three dollars per hundred, black lead ,
pencils, mathematical inllruments, &c. See. , ■
All forts and sizes of blank-Looks ready nradc or made wnj
10 order, bank checks, blank bills of exchange, #nd notes
of hand executed in copper-plates, lilkoi lading,maniiells, Q r ,.. .
seaman's articlesan.djournals, &c. occ. '
A wellfeletfltd colleclion of miscellaneous books. Alio,
of Greek,, Latin, and EugiUfr Claflics, as ar< now in use
* in the colleges and fchook> olfhe United States.
W. Young, Mills, & oon haveftelt published in one R
volume 11 mo. Sheridan's Dictionary lor the use
of lcnools, 1 jo-ioe dollars.—Also theiame work latge
■ Bvo. price three dollars.
Nov. 6. tawjv/-_ h; ba
. Samuel Rimardet f
RESPECTFULLY inftrms the Gentlemen beet.
Merchants, that he has this day opened.the CITY cure
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the «=
city of Philadelphia; 1 a r l oi
The Subscription Room will be furniilied with all the
daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- ,
ton, Baltimore, together with thoie of the princip 1 coir- (lcrn
citiss of Europe—They will be regularly filed c;ncf
and none permitted t» be taken away on any account. lna<l ,
Ttea, Coffee-, Scupes, Jellies, lee Creams, and a variety w hic
of >.xnch Liquors; together with theufuai'refrtlhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar. all ti
Gentlemen may depen«l on being accofeimodated with fuily
the rhoictft of Wines, Sfirituouk Liquors, and the Hioft n
approved Malt Liquors froitl.onrion and other breweries liafcl
' The Larder will be fiipplied with the prime and «arliell by li
productions of the Season. ,
Large and small Parties,orfingleGentiamec, may be ™> l
accommodated with Breakfsfts, Dinners, or Suppers, at '' ud
hours molt convenient to tnemfelves —a cold Collation is
regularly kspt for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had P".^
3 The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
the utri-toft attention paid to deanlitiefs, and every other be r
requisite. . , a g r<
Samuel Ric»a*det will be happy to receive, and | { u b
cx*.cute the commands of his Friends, slid the Public, at a bi«
and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges f r i c
bimfe'lf that nothing on his part JbalLbe wanting to {*»- ihe
serve that patronage wuhAvhicii he ha« been so diftiuguifh- the
ingly iionored. aD '
Philadelphia, April 19. m *' !
Tor Sale by John- J. Paricy,
No. 38, S. Second near Cbefnut-Jlreet,
A few excellent GOLD WAICHES, J
From Fortv to One Hundred Dollars, tr ,
And SILVER W«T CHE&, d i
Of various prites —all P c
An iffortment of Chains, Seals, Keys, and Trinkets, n<
Eight Day Clocks supplied, and Clocks & Watches
repaired wick dtfpVrlv'ajKl great cite. f
Best Watch GlalTes by the groce.
November i». tuf&s-w
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of the fliip Ganges, capt. Tingay, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
consisting or
ALsree and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
(JETTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Mu/lins, ]
Dorcas, tSV. Allu,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In bows and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings Francis,
No. « P«nn Street.
June I
,
/
Twenty Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 33d OAobsr,
a Dark MHLAI'TO BOY, named MOSES; 21 years SCIII
old; *i>out 5 feet 8 inches high; had on a mixsd green
colt, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons ;
a striped veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots niach worn. It is probable he may e.i-i gc ma ,
hia name and dress. He has been accustomed t* driving dwellin
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward \vi « j
paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiber may ?ct r.jn
again, and if brought home all reasonable y j
Robins Cbamberlaiue. 1
Eaflon, Maxylend, Nov. 10. 14 § Im2lw, - f 1
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold ly WILLIAM- BLACKBURN, Na. 64, a °'
South Second-Jlrcct, 40c
f 1,7-0'
SCHEME! of .a LOTTERY, ' 15,00,
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agretrablyTe »n •/& of
f the Legislature of Pcnnfylvauia, duruig the la.l 10,73*
feflion, for building £ Stone Bridge ovor the River 53 ,a6l
Schuylkill, ar-the Borough of Reading, in the County of
v Berks. Uollars /o,oc
i Piiie*of 40,000 Dollars - 2.0,000 ____
i do. of 10,000 do. - - 10,000 g
3 do. of 5,000 do. - - s 5-°oo TicketS)
4 do. of t,ooo do. - - #,000 . -
20 do. of 1,000 do. - - - ".000 =
do. of 500 dd. ' - . IQ^ 0 ®
«od«. of 200 do. - - - 16,c00 or prize
soo do. of 100 do. - * - 20,000 any nun
300 do. of 50 do. - ' us .
1 do. of 500 do. to be-paidthe posses- ) vate bui
for as the firft drawn no; J Two be
c do. of 3,050 do. tote paid poffe(Tors f t , OOO frontso
ofthefi»e last drawn no»S a ' itispro]
9,400 do. of 15 do. : - 141,000 as soon
them, i
10,054 Priaes 300,000 t h e mai
10,046 Blanks , A rtett 1
4 the nec
. ,°°.° be
t _ All Prizes (hali be paid fifteen days after the drawing is Uwiverl
finilhed, upon the demand oS a polTcflor ot a fortiiiaie The]
ticket, subject to a dedufiion of twenty, per cent, lie qld
Drawing will commeac: as soon as the Tickets are difpol u » •
01, or perhaps sooner. public notice will be given.
Philip Mtiltr, Peter Kerjlncr, William I'/ttman, <Ira ' wipj
Jtifeph Hiefter, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas, the funi
ip James May, JohriOtto, John Keim, Bank! Creejf, the wh<
Hebajlian Miller, Commissioners. mg, *a
Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
are hel<
Tickets in the Canal Lotrtry, No. 1, to-be had at the f®'
above office, where the earliest inlormation of the draw- rn '^ J . *
ing of the Walhington No. s, and Patterfon Lottery's, ne
are received, and checkbooks for examination and regif
ternlTk<!pt- - 2 awtf a fecon
° aobcr 7- I aaWtl ber of
1 DANCING SCHOOL. frknds
> • WILLIAM M'DOUG ALL -will open his school on Men- J e " !
ell day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his gondii*
tcr Elegant hew Ball Rooms, have i
In' Fourth, between Chefnut ?nd Walnut Streets, drawic
in .[ Hours of tuition for young from 10 to 1 o daek castior
nt 9on Mondays, V/ednef<!ay, and Friday mornings; and for th«,ticl
Q .- young gentlemen from 6to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
,l- s the fame days. «§»
,[[s I In addition to a number of new cetillioas, he means to James
gaj ; introduce a variety of Scotch Reels. of Joh
, Nate. The firil prailifing ball to be on Tuesday e- Coope
ade vening, the firft of November, and to becontinied every
stcs Tuelday, during the.leafou.
lts For terms, £cc, enquire at his house, No. 134, Marke-
~vr Mr. '1
.lfo, *7' whon
SWANN'S, «i£
one Riding School, Horse Atademy Gf Infirmary. has, 7
use Adjoining thfc Public Square, Market Street. tone 1
»tge T. S WANN •
RETURNShis fnicere thanks tothofe gentlemen by whom hutt:
— he has been employed, during his rtfidence in this City, and uoub
flat'ersbimfelf thai the success of his efforts, in the numerous, have
f obftinaie and dangerous diseases in Hortes, in which he has reafo
men bee., consulted, together with his moderate charges, will fe- he is
ITY cure their future favors and recommendation. prob;
r ,he He now begt leave to inform th«m and the public at large rc wa
that his spacious and commodious premises, ereiled for the may
1 th . purposes above deferibed are open for the reception of pupils get h
J f of cither sex, who wish to be inflruSed in the Aft of Riding, ta k el
and the light method of goveining their horses, so as to ride the
: ° n ": litem »uh eafe,.eleg3nce. and lafety—their horses will be wi)l
"' ed caicfulty and expeditioutly broke, for every purpose, and
made obedient to the wiil of the riders ; the natural powers
nety which arc (hut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
eu ts, f, )r th uniformity of motion, and giving to thpt noble animal
all thole beauties of action which providence has so b»unu
with fuily iieftowed on them.
most rtlfo,at hisbofpitai, every er to which the horle is
erles liable will be treatetlaccording to the rules of art, confirmed j\J
.rlieft i by long and repealed expenence. "
The utility of the above iuUiiution has Rever been qneftion- unti
ay be ed,xhat it has long been wanted in tnis city, everjj gentleman's fuin;
rs at Hud will mamleft, and f. Sw ann as the firft eltablilher of fori
ion is the and reli«s upon the fuppoit {if (hat j un ,
ic had l )Ll!, ' u (which he js ever anxious in leiving) to enable him to ,]ay
bring ir to perfetfion. The iuea of a fubfeription f« that
, , purpose has beeu hinted by leveral gentleman, who wtih to p ic
* promote the inllitution —the amount of each fubfeription to y
utlier be returned by Cervices in any of the departments.he proleffes, jj n
- agreeable to the rate of charges lU'.cd in his hand bill. Such j
e, and j fubleription is now open, and the signatures of many refpeft- p-
Dlic at able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore iajorms his
ledges iriends ana !u.h Ladies and gentlemen to whom.he has not _
to p#e-j ihe honor of being known, that he fhali in a few days take c
iguifh- the liberty'of waiting upon them and soliciting their fuppoit "
and p*ote£tion.
iv*'f N B. Horses sre properly prepared for those Ladicaand Mi
Gentlemen who wish to be inllruited. 1
•jov 5. Mb&f. me
~ " nill
Philadelphia, November 6,1796. p' o(
,-F.q ALL persons desirous to contrail for furnilhing of bet
' J\ Rations and Qoatter-Mafters stores, for the
troops in Philadelphia or Fort-Mifilin, on Mud Island, [ 0 ,
during the year 1797 —are requettedto fend tlieir pro
pofalsfealed, r on or before the firft day of December
inkets, next, to po
batches TENCH ER ANCIS, Purveyor.
The component parts of the Rations, are
1 pound of f loar or Bread
ks;\r I pound of Beef or 3-4 »f a pound of Pork
1-2 a pill ofßßutm t Brandy
or Whiflcey
'• I quart of Salt j !*
rm Cal- a quarts of Vinegar VFw 100 Rations „
% pounds 01 ooap
1 pound of Canclea J
1 Madras Nov.o
1 P
Any Person d
r uflins, who is well acquainted with the River t
MISSISIPPI, )
' And wiil give DiretSlioas for failing into the fame, .
' lhat can be depended on, (hall be generously reward- t
ed for hn information, provided he will leave the c
CIS, direiftions with Mr. John l'eano, printer, Philadelphia, <
Stratt. or Ecmund M. Blunt, Newi>uryport.
' 5 November 3. lawjnt
"City cf Washington. AI
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11, ttLo
fOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 /■ THE ed on
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent 7 20,000 dollars, & ? jojooo 25s
dwelling-hotrfe, s xa 2» 3°; 00 °j are J '
1 ditto 15,000 & cifi» 15,000 40,000 »ioB
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000 4600
1 ditto 10,000 & cash io,qqo 20,000 8000
I ditto 5,000 & ciili 5,000 10,000 . *£]
1 ditto -5,000 & caih 5,000 io,ooe
1 cash prize of io,oop
2 do. 5,000 each, are « 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - " 10, coo
ao do. 500 - - 10,000 t-T
00 do. 100 — - 10,000 A A
MO do. 5° - * I0 ' 000 cZ'n
400 do. 15 - -
1,000 do. <20 * 30,e00
15,003 do. 10 - - rante<
f Watd
I 16.739 Prrzes. * Ecar
r 33,261 Blank*. Knee
' ■ brarti:
I £>,oco Tickets, at Eight Dollar*, .-400,000 He
D •
• r "japan
0 N. B. Tofivour those who may take a quantity oi felack
0 Tickets, the j>rrzc of 40,00 c dollars will be the last drawn
q rtkket, and the 30,000 the last but one : turcs
v y And approved notes, fceurieg payment in either money
0 or prizes, in ren <lays atter drawing, will be received lor
,o any number not less than 30 tickets.
o This Lottery Will afford an elegant fpecim en of thepri
vate buildings to be ere&edin the City of Waihington—
0 Two beautiful designs are already fele<2ed for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares ; from these prawings tbum
it is proposed to ered two centre and four c orner buildings,
<0 as foen as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
— shem, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in -ju__
>0 the manr.crdefcribed in the scheme for-theH-otel Lottery.
A nett deduction of fiveper cent, will be ir.ade to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, the surplus Lji
1° be made a part of the fund intended for the National river
15 Uur-erCty, to be ert&ed within the city of Wafhif»gton. Geor
£ Th- Drawing will confluence as soon as the tickets are
'J old 01X—The money prizes will bepayable in thirty days L)
Q« . after it is finiihed ; and any'pnze* for which forwuiaie r ]ver
' numbers ai e not produced within twelve months after the Geol
drawing isdafed, are to be conficfcred as given towards
'• the fund for the University; it being determined to fettle _
f, the whole business in a year from the ending of the=draw-
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
I'he real fecurit.es given for the p.iymcnt-of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Dircdors of the Bank L;
(, e of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a- Care
T _ mount of the lottery.
• s The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of lc
if.' the late Commissioners assisted in the management of the 'f
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous taflc
a second time on behalf ef the public ; a fufficient num
-r- ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped tha' the J£_
friends to a National University and the ether federal ob
j,. je&s may continue to favor tij design.
By- accounts received fr<M the different parts of the
Continent as-well as frcm Europe, where the tickets I r
have been sent for sale, the public are allured that th*
■3. drawing will speedily commenae, and that the care and
ek caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
or th«itickets,has rendered the lhort fufpesifion indifpenfabls. Ar
,0 SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
to James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Oilman, Boston ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells 1
e- Cooper's Ferry. e0
" ry RA NA WA T, - •' w.
:Ct " About the id of O&ober last, from the plantation «f
r Mr. ThomasT. Brooke, (in Prince George!;; county) to _1
—• whom he was hired, a NEGRO MAN, named CAESAR:
33 years of age ; about 5 feet 8 or 9 inches high; well
made ;of a yeilowifc complexion; a little pockmarkcd:
has, w hen spoken to, rather a down look, and submissive j
tone of vuiie: tha clothes he had before he abfeonded cor
were of plain, such as labouring Negroes usually- wear , q U ;
kom but these he may probably exchange for others :he will ]
and doubtless endeavour to pass for a freeman, hiving, as I _
ouj, have been informed, assumed the name of Butler : I have
has reason to believe that he went to Baltimore, from whence
II fe- he is said to have gone to fame part of the Sufquehannah, At
probably with a view of getting to Pennsylvania. A
large reward-os Thirty Dollars will be given to- the person who
' 'be may take him and so secure him in some jail that I may Co
upils g et him again, if taken in this state, and Fifty dollars if 0 f
taken-out of, the ftatt, and if brought home or secured in te< j
r '^ e the jail of Prince G«orge'» county all reafunable charges ori
11 b ] will be paid by ALEXR. COVINGTON. 0 f
' a " Maryland, Frince George's County, ") lin
2nd November, 1796. ' j Ilth't&f^w
umil ~ * to.
> u nu- , Treamry Department, re
rfe j, September 28, 1796. p"
med XTOTICE is hereby given, that propofaU will be re- on
JLN ccived at the oflice of the Secretary of the Ticafury ! vi
(lion- until the expiration of the firft day of March -next en
man's suing, for the fapply of all rations which may he required
er of for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
iim to jays inchiiive, at the places and within the diftridts here- "T
f'b" after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at *
ft* 10 Piefflue lfle; at Sanduflty Lake, and on Sandufky ;tv
to Bivtf; at Detroit; at Michilimackmac; At Fort-Frank- | a
iicues, | m ; at Pittsburgh ;at Cincinnati; at Fort-Harsilton ; to
f & a at ort a ' r ' at Fort-Jefferfoh ;at Grenville; at
I'icqie Tcwn and Lor amies Store ; at Fort Adams; at
ias not F° rt Wayne; at Fort Defiance ;at any place below Fort
ta Ke Dcfiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
uppoit Steuben ; at FortMaffac ; at any place from Fort Maffac
• to the fcruth boundary of the United States en the river
ioaod MiiEfippi; at Fort Kn«x ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies (hall be required for any polls or places not
i&f. mentisned in this notice, all such supplies ihall be fur
nifhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
( ) f >- p'ofts before recited, or as maybe hereafter sgreed on
"g °* between the United States and the Cdntra&er.
t the The rations to be supplied are to consist of the sol
liland, lowing articles, viz. '
ir pro- One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
ember One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces ei
pork or bacon>
yor; Half a gill of rum, brandy rr whiskey.
One quart and half a pint of felt."\ ' t
Two quarts #f Vinegar, ( . , ,
Two pounds of Soap, (P" hundred rltlocs (
One pour.d of Candles, J ' , I
The rations are to be furnifliod in such quantities, as that
there (hall at all times during the said term, be fufficient ,
for the consumption of the troops at Miehilimackinac, De- |
tions and Ofwego, for the term of lix months in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
at least three months in advance, in good and wholesome
provisions, if the fame ft all be required. It is to be un
derload, that the Contrador isto b< at the exjence and
_ ri& of iffuirg the supplies to the troops at each post, and
River that all losses fallained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, shall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
le lame, t he depositions of two or mory perlons of creditable cha
re wird- raders, and the certificate of a commiffionca officer, af
tave the certaining the of the loss, and the amount
■delpbia, of the ai tides for which compensation shall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
» Secretary e f UitTreafury.
"*• ' \ .
Philadelphia, 6tb Novemler,' ! <
ALL per Corn desirous to contrail to furniih for the Ar.
uy of the United States, the following articles, or any por
tion of them, are requested to fend in their propofais foal
ed on or before the 15th December next t#
Tench Francis, Purveyor.
Pair of leather breeches, Tlle Da ,, crnl b
254 Z'u b u° !' view.a it Samuel Hodg
,o4® Artillery h.u, don> Ef b J
s ,08 Infantry hats, f lhc firl ? f tn[ , jbovc
4600 Pa.ro flno, No. Aich . ftrc „.
8000 Pair of IhoeSf No. J
November 8. tu & ftDi
James Mufgrave,
GOLDSMITH W JFJVMLLERj I
No. 4J, south Second-street,
HAS just received an affertmcnt of Plated War;
and Jewellery, Plated Tea and Coffee lirnsV Cu!Tje
Pots, Tea ditto, Castors from 5 to 8 bottles, Sugar *nd
Cream Basons, Bottle Stands, Balkets, high Catjdkftics,
Brackets and Chamber ditto, Branches, Sconces, a variety
of Silver and Plated Shoe JLa-chets, Spurs, We.Ufr. war.
ranted of the best plate; Ladies and Geatlemeas Gold
Watch Chains, Seals and Keys; Necklaces, Neck Chains,
Hear Rings, Finger Rings, Lockets, Bread Pins, Stone
Knee-Buckles, with many other aitides i» the above •
branches.
He has lifcewife received an extensive ifiortmentof
- japann'd tea and coffee Urns, persian, biae, brown,
) black and gold.
All kinds of work inthe gold and silver line; minia
turcs set, and hair work executed as usual.
[ November 9. tu th & f
To be Sold,
'60,400 Acres of Land.
2 Lying tm the river AHegtiany, in the county of Nor
s thumberlapd, in the State of Penofylvania.
' 400 Acre* Land,
' Pn Bald Eagle t»wu£iip, Nortliumberlaad county
' aforefaid.
j 60,000 Acres Land,
s "Lying «n the waters of the Oconee and Canouchee"
1 rivers, in the comity -of Waflsington, in the state of
Georgia.
e -174,000 Acres Land,
s -Lying on the voters of the Oliopee and Canowchtt
rivers, in the county-os- Mo.-McamuFy; in U.l'gatf of
" Georgia.
51.033 Acrsa Land,
e Lying in Orangeburgh diftndl, in the state of South v
-Carolina. And,
s 146,986 Acres 'Land,
lc' Lying in Gharlefton difiriil, ii> the said state of South
1- Carolina.
An Half acre "Lot cf Grond,
3 f Io the town of Richmond, Virginia.
"" The above Lands v/ilibe low.—Apply to
lk George Meade.
■ Philad«?phla, l Ith Nov. 1796. tuScs c.;',bl) ,
b * THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, -
be Price 37 1-2 Cents.
ts The Pretensions as Thomas Jeffer
,fon.to the Presidency,
of EXAMINED,
ls - And the Charges againll John Adams
of REFUTED. .
n . Akdrefied to the Citizens of America in general
| 3 i and, particularly,
Tq the E'eftors of the Prcficlent.
- Sold bv
W. YOUtfe, MILLS -fit SO*T t -Ccraer jrf-Seeotd
«f and Chefnut-ilraets.
to November 5. tts
% WANTED,
d: As Cook, in a private family,
; *e A YOUNG who can pr®duce good rc
led commendations of an unexceptionable character. Es
™ ' quire of the Printer.
November 17. -$tf
,s I
«e Loft Last Evening,
ah, At Ricketts's Amphitheatre, (fuppofeJ to.be taken by
A ficme villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
'ho A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes
1 of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and 306, da
-I>o ted 12th last Aug*ft, payable 60 days alter date, to the
ges order os-Paul Siemen, together for 5150 dollars; anottjar
■ of Mrs; Ann Vaepherfon, from Paul Siemen, on Lach
lin Mac Neal, F.fq.a* Port-au-Prince, for 100 dollars; be
r "fides several lettets and papers of no use but to the prgprie
- tor. The notes of hand and order are without endorlt
nsent. EIGHTY DOLLARS RF.WARD is offered to
| any person who will discover and secure the thief, ani
1 FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
_re" 1 oned notes and papers at No. 129, comer of "Front aDd J
ur 7 1 Mulberry £lreet*. d Oct. 1-1.
en- - ——r"
'" d f Waihmgton Canal Lottery,
Kith NO. I.
ere- "*T THERE AS the State of Maryland has authorised
i at V V the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thoufanc,
,t!ky i tv/o hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutt jig
»nk- I a Canal through the City of Wafhiagton, froja th Po>
on ! tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
at The following is the SCHEME of No.!.
; at Viz .1 Prize of 2opoo dollars, aopoo
Fort x ditto lO.OOQ 10,000
Fort 7 last drawn J jroco
affae Tickets, each j J '°°° 3J,OC
•iver 6 ditto 1,000 6i°oo
10 ditto 4CO 4,000
s not 10 ditto too i ,o°o
fur- ditto 50 ' i>7s°
t the 5 7jo ditto 11 69,00!$
lon Xo be raised for the Qaaal, a6,»J9
: sol- 5850 Prizes,
11650 Blanks, not two toaprige.
es 81 17500 Tictets at Ten Dollars, - I7Ji^® 3
The Commissioners hava taken the Securiticf re
quired by the aforefaid a til for the pun&ual payment at
the prizes.
itions The drawing of this Lottery will comiu«iEP) without
delay, as fooo a» thf Tickets are fold, of timely
notice will be given. - > . • . ' .
s that Such prizes as are not deMiandedln fixmonthss'tert t
icient drawing is finilhed, fhail be confideredasrelinquiUi' 1 ' ,or
De- t he benefit of the Caual, and appropriated
th„ in (Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
rm of DANIEL CARROLL,® D*
efome LFAVIS DEBLO!3» t
u "-, GEORGE WALKER.
« and Wm m _ DONCjV* SO "'
l > and THOMAS LA">/.
. JAMES BART-Y
---edf on cit T of Wathirgton, Feb. K. '
le <ha
"mow«t PRINTED BY JOHN FENNC, A
ed -r-Nor. A 19
CHFS < St#T-rTJtKET.
fury. [Pricc Figkt Dollars per Atmtiru.j