#a?ttte M ©tlitCH States A Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
MONDAT EVENING, OCTOBER 24, 179 6 - [Volume X,
Number 1287.] ——— j 1 - A CAPIT AL ASSORTMENT OF
— rn ij s a T. F. ror bale,
rvnxr
Landing this day,
From on board the Brig Caroline, at Chefnut-flreet
wharf,
FORTr PIPES
London proof Holland Gin. 1
For Sale by
Joseph Anthsny & Co.
r>A>nW 11. * ii ■
Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbl». 1
a 7 hhls. pnme Coffee,
Best Boston Beef,
> n hd».
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 qI L.
Northern J . . 1
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a luperior
quality. ;
A few boxes excellent brown loap, and
A few bales India Muslins.
FOR SALE BT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Oflober 21. , -
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
Have received per the William Pcnn, in addition to
cheir own afTorment,
A confienment of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele
rant London patterns; also a few cases of handsome
Buttons—Which will be fold at a short credit, on very
reasonable terms, by the package only.
oa. T4. Ktf
..'•-Hr For Salvia.. . l
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confifling of different files, from 11 inch cables down
to rope of 2 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the fliip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 27.
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of Madeira Wine, landing from on
tovd the schooner Lucy, Capt. Prows, at ChefnUt
ftreet wharf, and' for sale hy the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews,
0f1.14. mwf No. 86, So. Wharves
For Freight or Charter,
<3-, The fliip COMMERCE^
* Gtlf3L NATH -.NIEL CUR I IS, Matter.
Almofta new velTel, 344 tons burthen, and will
be ready to receive a cargo in a few days. For
jgjterms apply on board at Bright* s wharf, or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
For Sate on board the above Vessel,
A-quantity of excellent COAL.
tar*- sons 'aving goods *Tu v».-ni} rcjucft- 1
ed 10 fend tr-tir pcrm:u. '
Oflobrr ' I■ diot
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MARY,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, she will take
for Hamburg. Apply as above.
O&ober "• diot 1
For Boston, Newbury-Port and Ports
mouth, New-Hamplhire,
i**"*""" The Schooner LUCY,
V •Sjr?* Daniel Prowfe, matter ; will fail in
j 'he course of a week, and take freight
£ A on moderate terms, for which, or
i. passage, apply on board, or to
Joseph Anthony, fe* Co.
October 15. dx
For Norfolk,
(Ta fail in three or four days)
The brig Zephyr, \
Captain Hinchman; lying at Landenbergcr*s wharf—
She has excellent accommodations for paflengers—For
which or freight, apply to the captain on board, or to
Samuel Breck, jun.
No. Bg, South Third-street:
Where may be had
A quantity of N. E. Rum, Sherry Wine
in quartcr-cafks,
Sail Cloth, Nos. 1 and 2, afld a few hundred pieces
of Bandanna Handkerchiefs.
O&ober 20. 6,
The Brig MARY,
Lying at Messrs. Willings and Francis's
wharf,burtTlcn 4000 barrels, built in Philadelphia in 1793
cf lite oak and red cedar.—She is well found, and may
lie Tent to sea at a small cxpence. For terms apply to
Gurney Smith.
oa. 6. dtf.
FOR LONDON,
The capital (hip CERE'S,
To fail ioon: —For freight or passage |
to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
John Vaughan,
September 10. Front-street.
For Charter,
The Danish Barque Benetentura,
jfecSamuel Stub, matter,
A good vtffel, of about two hundred
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WaLN.
Sept. 17.
Jor Charter,
The Ship Dominick Terry,
De Hart, mailer : an excellent
vessel, of about 3000 barrels burth.n.
Jeffe & Robert Wain.
September si. i
FOR SALE.
PORT WINE, and ...
HOLLAND GIN. of the firft qualities in Pipes.
FRAUNCF.S and VAN REED,
Brokers and Commiflion \ierchants,No. 6J,So. jd St.
Who discount approved NOTES of hand.
N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted.
September 14. mwf
Robert Smith & Co.
No. 58, South Frtnt-Jireet, h
Hare received t>y the late arrivals fr#.m London, Liver
pool, and Hull, and hy the Ohi® arrived at N. York 4
from Glrfgow,
A large & general afTortment or Goods,
Suitable for the Season, confifling of
Duffle, Point and Rose Checks, in small packages
Blankets Oznaburg» and Brown Hol-
White, Red, and Yellow lands
Flannel, Brown and whit* Roiua
Bocking and other Baizes Sheetings
Second and coarse Cloths Drillings and Diapers
Plain and mixed CaflimerCs Calicoes and Chintzes
Plain, twilled, and striped Jaconet and Book Muslins
Coatings 80. do. Tamboured
Plains, Kerseys, and Half- Do. do. Handkerchiefs
thicks Printed linen snd check do. "
- White & spotted Swanskins Roma! and Madrafs do. r
Lainet and fwanfdown vest Muslin and Chintz Shawls
lhapes Bed I icks
Carpets and Carpeting TableCloths
Calimancoes and Durants Laces and Edgir.gs w
j Moreens and Taboreens Falhionable Ribl^ins
Joans Spinning and Crape# Do. Hats and Botnets
- Camblets and Wildbores Cotten & Worsted Hosiery j
Bombazeens & Bombazets Gloves and Mitts
Rattinets and Shalloons White & coloured 'IHreads
Plain, Genoa and printed Italian Sewing Silks
Vtlverets & Thicksets Ivory and Horn Comb;
- j-S, 4-4, and 11-S Cotton | Tapes, Bindings, Pins, See.
' S They have on hand a lar»;e afforrment of India Muilus
and Calicoes, black and coloured Pcrfians, Bandanno and
. Pullicat Handkerchiefs, &c. and a quantity of Nutme«s
and Macc.
OAober 17. m* sim
" Win. holdernessh:,
No. 76 High Street,
' TTAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
O. the Eafl Indies, a well fele&ed affortmcnt of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdathery Goods ; which
he will fell, Wholefaie and Retail, on theloweft ternu ;
1 AMONGST WHICH ARE,
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and IHver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulniul ditto
Do do do «■» do Handkerchiefs
, Some extra black taffetiesjuuftringsaad colored Pcrfians
Bandano Handkerchiefs ,
Long and short Nankeens '
English Mantuas of the firft quality
Damaik table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant aflbrtment
' Thead and cotton do 1
r Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cleth (
French cambrics, very fine {
Irish Linens, do. &c. Stc. June 14 5 ■ I
Just Imported, t
Tin Places in boxes '
iiicet and bar.Lead
- - UIML —an TUSM, jtfiamßuiiiiiii "■—
Cqpper bottoms and sheets ,
English shoes and boots ill cases ,
Taunton Ale in calks of xo d»z. each
Balket Salt t
Wool Caj-ds v.
Gold Watches. r
> For Sale by n
Simon Walker,
? 051. 7. mwfim Dock-ftrc^t.
— t
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent, .
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alkant and Lis
bon, landing at the fubfe/ibers wharf—
i 8 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanilh wool
3 do. of Annifeed
* 7000 Bufhals of best Lilbon S*!t
80 Boxes of Lemons
r For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hoglheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the ship Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart, "
from Kingston.
Sept. 13. d 1
For Sale,
- This day Landing from on board the Jhip Concord,
r Captain Thompson, from Amfierdam, J
Gin, in pipes
Empty Gin Cases 4
Hock in cases of 4 doz.
Glass Tumblers in cheftg
> Sweet Oil in cases
Patte GrafTe Cheese in boxes, &c.
Also landing by the Louisa, Capt. Bell, from Zi/iin,
60 Quarter-casks Lifton Wine.}
On Hand,
A quantity of Brandy, Hazle-Nuts in sacks, &c.
Peter Blight.
oaober 17. daw eo2w
5 This Day is 'Published,
By William Cobbett, opposite Chrift-Churth,
An Answer to Paine's Rights of Man, J
By R. Makenzie, Esq. of Edinburgh.
To -which is added, ''
A Letter to Citizen Swanwick, i
By Fcter Porcupine. 1
The whole is dedicated to Dot2or Joseph PrielUey, >
o Fellow ef the Uoyal Society of Lonoiop, Citizen of C
America, and Deputy Eieft to the National Conven-
r tion of France. f
OcTt. 18.
DANCING SCHOOL. J
WILLIAM will open his school on Mon- J
day the 31 ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at hit 1
Elegant Aew Ball Rooms, \
4 In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets. *
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to i o'clock *
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
* men 6 t0 ' °' elock on the evenings o
In addition to a number of new cotillion., he means to
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firft pra«i£ug ball to be on Tuesday c
t leni?,£'I eni ?, £ ' 1, e November, and to be continued every X
Tuesday, during the season. ' 7
ftrfeT term '' £ ' C ' en l u ' rt lt bis house, No, 134, Market
od ' eotf. 1
For Sale,
By Jehu Hollingfivorth, & Co.
1$ fchds." Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
5 Barrels bell Indigo, and,
A (ew thousand biifhels of 1 urk'i llland fait.
oa 17. d - 1
Irish Linens, &c.
Imported per the ships Glafgo<w, from Dublin, Liber- (
US from Cori, und brie Mentor, from Belfafi, f
4.4 and 7-3 Wide IRISH LINENS, i
In whole and half boxes,
Assorted from I id. to 4s. sterling—Also 5-4 wide
Sheetings, and low priced yarn and worsted Hofc.
On Hand, s
7-g Wide Lawns. j
Diapers and Table-Cloths
A few boxes Titkens and Checks
A few bales Flannels J
Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, Nos. X and 6
15 Boxes 'I f 6 ly S,
10 Eitto > Window Glass, s 7 by 9,
5 Eitto j C 8 by 10.
The ibove mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
drawback, and will be difpafed of by the package on
reasonable terms.
James, Clibborn & Englilh,
No. 6, N. Front-street.
loth mo. 19 th. dtf
Just Landing,
At Sotth flreet-ivharf, from on board the ship Sedg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Petirflurg,
The following Goods;
Raflia Sail Duck, firft qunlity.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
TJft. Crash.
Ib. Mould Candles, 4, J and 6, to the lb. of the
Enghfh fjze.
D). White Candle Tallow.
IV White Soap in small boxes.
Dc. Cordage of fine yarn.
Rarens Duck.
1 IGnglafs, ift and and fort.
Herfe Hair uncurled.
! Ri!Ha Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rod'j.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Petersburg CUian Hemp:
For Sale by
' Philips, Cramond, & Co.
October 12.
STOP THE THIEVES!!!
LAST Weflnefday Evening, October 19, oetween the
laursof7and lOo'clock, the bed room of Mr Ricketts in
OiEHcr's hotel was emered, either bv means of falfe keys,
orat the window, by some villain or villains, who must have
teen acquainted wirh the fiLuatlon of the house (as the door
was found locked after they had committed 'the theft) who
tookawayfrom amongst several trynks, ONK which con
taiptd a valuable part of Mr. R:ckett*s propeity. but of which
he i; not /yet-able to afctruin the contents par.icularly. As-
J £airl..f away, and emptying it of up
wards of a thourantf dollars in C&th and JjanX notes, the vil-
Uios left it behipd the circus, during iheiime that the per
formances of tJie evening were going forward*
It ia earncftl, requeued, (hac.alf tavern-keepers on the stage
roadi, andtbeferry houses, as well as all civil officers,,may
be watchfjl in fccurlog suspicious perfans, who nidy have a
redundance of c.ifh, which their appearance would by no
qjeans bespeak item to De poficlTcd of.
One Hundred Dollars Reward
. Will W given for securing tUe thief or thieves, aud a fur
ther reward for fee tiring them with the property.
061. 31. A
-*■ ,
For Sale,
Carolina Rice in whole and half tierce 9,
Cotton of Cayenne and Trinidad,
Soal Leather, entitled to drawback,
Boston Beef, and
Mould an 4 dipt candles.—Apply to
Jfaac Harvey, jun.
No. 5, South Wateiyftieet.
10th mo. 17. d3w.
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo ef thelhip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta, and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
A Large and general aflbrtment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SlIaK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A -variety fine worked and plain Mu/liru,
Dorcas, ?SV. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings Sff Francis,
No. 11 Penn Street.
June 8 §
New Hat and Hosiery Store,
Wholesale, and Retail,
By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
No. 134, Market Street, 3 d door from the corner
of Fourth, South Side.
,Mens' Black American and Englih Hats, of various qual
ities and prices.
Ditto Drabs and Green-und«r».
Ladies' ditto black
And a large aflbrtment of fancy ditto
Coloured Beavers A
With a great variety of ekgant and falh ionable trim
s mines' &c.
Yoifch's black and drab coloured ditto.
Children's fancy ditto
All kinds of fifk, silk and cotton, cotton and thread hose
Knit coloured Pantaloons
Ditto Drawers
Ditto Breeches Patterns
silk Gloves
Knotted, coloured ditto, cotton.
A quantity of mending cotton, sorted colours.
N. B. rhe hats fiiiifhed in the newest fafhon.
r yl' eodim.
Washington Lottery.
The 30th and 31ft days' drawing of the Washington
Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office No. 434, Mar
ket-street, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in a!! the other
lotteries -may be procured.
O&ober »o, 1796. 4
A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS.
John Miller, jun & Co.
Exclusive of their own Importation now opening,
Have received by the William Penn, Caroline and Disna
CONSIGNMENTS,
Which comprize a.capiral aflbrtment to open®
Dry Good* Store.
—Amongit them are—
Common, super and luperfine Clothi,
Plain, twill'd and flrip'd Coatings,
Baiievand Flannels,
Point, rose and ilufFil Blankets,
Plain and pnntea Caflimeres,
Swanfdowns,
Printed Calicoes,
Scotch Threads,
Hosiery.
They will be fold either in whole, or in part, by the
package, on terms which render them an objedl worthy at
attention to purehafers. dtf Oil. 21.
LANDING,
Out of different vefjels from England, and for sale
by the fubjerihers on reasonable terms,
Superfine and common cloths, and caffimers
Ribbed and flriped do. do.
Blankets, mottled green and silk rngs.
Superfine blue, Claret, and common coatings,
Kerseys, Bear-skins, plains and Halfthicks,
Swauikins, Serges an* Flannels,
Britilh Ingrain Carpeting,
Hats assorted in cases ot 12 doz. each.
Cbocolat chintzes, printed Callicoes and Handkerchiefs.
Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
Yarn, Worsted, and Cotton hosiery,
Beavers, Thickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, ice. &c.
Buff and drab Genoa Cords of a luperior quality.
6d. Bd. iod lid. aod. nails, and frying pan's,
An affortmcnt of Iron monger ry, Cutlery and a variety
of India cotton, and silk goods.
: Thomas & JoJhua Fisher.
No. 5, Dock-fttreet.
Also by the Glasgow from Dublin,
1-8 and 4-4 Irish Linens assorted in boxes of 30 pieces,
do. Brown, Glazed Linnen.
OSI. 17. dtf.
To be Rented,
A Small and Convenient BREWERY, at
MorrisVille, opppfite Trentsn.
ALL the Apparatus for brewing new and in gopd
repair: A number of Barrels and Half Barrels will
also be rented. Poflefiion may be had at any time.
Enquire of Mr. Garrett Cottringer in Philadelphia,
or Mr. Robert ftlorris, jun. or Daniel Mun at Morris-
Ville.
October 30, 1796. mtli&siw
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
n
>, By Benjamin Davies,
e No. 68, High-flreet,
o The American Repository of ufeful
h information, for 1797.
CONTAINING,
A Calendar for the ytir
A complete Regiller of the Executive, Lfgiflatiye,
and Judic-ary Officers of the General Government. '
, c A Lift of the Military Forces of the United States,
y Poll-Office Establishment—times of receiving aad
a dosing the Mails.at, Philadelphia.
o The poll roads and towns, and their diftanaes,
Times of holding (he Supreme, Circuit and Diftriifl
Courts.
A table of Impost duties, alphabetically arranged.
A lift of the cuftorn-houfe officers and their fees.
Rules for reducing the currencies of the several
_ states into one another, and all of them into the mo
ney ef the United States.
Ufeful tables of the value of pounds, shillings and
pence, in dollars and cents.
A register of the officers of the civil government of
Pennsylvania.
A girdiner's calendar for Pennsylvania.
And a great variety of other articles of ufeful informa
tion. Embellilhed with twelve elegant vignettes, an en
graved title-page and frontispiece,—making together, a
. handsome, as well as very ufeful, little pocket companion.
O&ober 20. 2awtf
Country Rum,
And a few pipes of Vinegar,
as For Sale by
Ezekiel Hall,
. At the flores of Mr. Edward Stow, jun. No. 4, South
' Water-street O&ober 20. d
Imported in the late arrivals from Europe and tie
Wejl-Indies,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique Molaflis, in bogfheads
_ Choice old Lisbon Wine, in pipes and qoarter-c»fk»
London Particular,& London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-ca/ks
Malmsey Madeira Wins, in pipes and quarter-caits
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes
Russia & Flemish Sheeting and Ravens Duck, ia cafac
r Window Glass, Bby 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in calks
1- Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
A few chests of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; Aflafcc
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of Coflaes,
Baf'tas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete aflbrtment of 5-4 and 6-4
*" Boulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers Ss 1 Co.,
Oflober 20 d2wm&th2m
SAIL C LOTH.
On Monday, the 3 \JI injl. will be Sold
at Public Sale, at the Store of Mejfrs.
_ George Hunter its Co. No. 153, Pearl
Jlreet, New-Tork,
275 Pieces of the Best
>n English Weft Country Sail Cloth,
By some perfofis called East Coken, and by other*
Si - Weft Coken.—lt is of known excellency; wear*
white, and does not mildew.
October 18 ' dtjjtl*IHE pantheon,
J _ RICKETTS'S AMPHITHEATRE,
rcr Eqtieftriah and Stage perforrfiances. Corner of
Chefnut and Sixth-streets.
THIS EVENING, Oiflober Z4,
Will be prsfented, '
A variety of plealingEntertainments. 1
Squeflrian Exercises—by Mr. Ricketts, Mr F. Ricketts '
Mailer Hutcnins, and Mrs S|>inactfta. '
, Clown to the horfemanfcip— Mr. Sully. i
(For two nights only)
After which will be presented,
-A scotch floral Dance, under the direflion cf Mr.
Durang, called '
The CALEDONIAN FROLIC. !
Principal Chara£\ers
Isy Mr. Durang, Mrs Toinokitos and Mrs. Dorantr. '
HORSEMANSHIP. «
Mr'. Rjclsetta- wir pick up a pin from the greund, 1
the horse :n full, fpeecl. <
Slack Rope Vaulting "by Mr. Duranj*. i
EQUESTRIAN EXERCISES. c
By Mr. Kidketts and Mr. F. Rickets, who, forthe f
time, will carry Mailers Hutchins and Snider (
on their Iho-jlders, as flying Mercurie?. ,
• f° r fbe firft time, 4nj for two nights only,
The uholeirtil conclude with a favourite Pantomimey '
called 1
The Valiant Soldier ; '
Or, The Thicvu.
Captain of tht Banditti, Mr. Spinacuta. a
2d Thief, Mr. Coffie. r
Lucas, Mr. During. '
Clown, Mr. F. Ricketts. a
Valiant Soldier, Mr. Sully. n
Milkmaid, Mrs. Durang. ft
Colette, Mrs. Tompkins.
In the course of the Pantomi*ie will be introduced ,
a battle with hroad swords, by Mr. Sully as Valiant
Soldier, and Mr. Spinacuta as Captain of the Banditti.
' Magfeiirt, Witches, &c. by the reft of the company. !<
. The Ladies "nd Gentlemen who secure feats in m
the day time, are requefled to attehd at 7, n
as the performances are so arranged as t<s conclude by a j
1o o'clock—the doors will open at 6. r
r J ts" Box, 7s. 6d.—Pit, ,;s. 9H. *r
1 ickets to be had cf9 Mr. Ford, at the ticket office in
Chefnut-flreet, from ten to three o'clock each day. ' £
Silver Tickets, to admit for the season, to be had w
By applying to Mr. P icketts at the Pantheon, or at Oel- £
le.-s's Hojel. y
Mr. RICKETTS a >
BEGS leave to inform the Ladies and Gentlemen, that cc
he will open fii. RIDING SCHOOL on the ift of Nov. w
for the inftrufHon of Ladies and Gentlemen in the ele. ar
gant accorhplilhmcnt of riding and managing thais horses dt
with ease tOjthemfelvss. ,
Mr. Ricketts has well traintd Horses f6r the zccom
fce*dation of Ladies and Gentlemen for exercise, to pay
monthly. Pupils to pay by the season, or by the lcflon. ! *
Horses trained to the road or field. ' of
Oflober 24. d
Landed this Day, ' ac
At Morton's Wharf, from the brig Fame, Captain
Knox, J d»
A quantity of Barbadoes Rum & Sugar.
For Sal' by ln J
Kearny Wharton. mc
Cißober 34. d(> ,
- LODGING S. th e
WANTED~TO RENT, wf
Plainly furnifhed, (bedding excepted) a Parlour or wc
Sitting Roem, two Bed-Cnambes, and a Kitchen A to
line addreOed to J. J. at the Printer's, No. 119, Chef- r
*ut-flr eef, will be attended to.
Oflnb-T T.l. d w
LOST, YESTERDAY,
A Note of Hand, I on
Givfcn in favour of William Wright by John Curtis, jsr
for £ 130, or thereabouts. Al! persons are warned I
against reeeivir.g said Note in payment—lf found, it is
requeued that it may be delivered to the subscriber at
No. ioii North Third-street : payment being flopped,
it can he of no use ta any one but the owner.
Od. Z2 r 3 JOHN CURTIS.
50 Dollars Reward. am
Lofty a red Morocco Pocket-Book, X le
BETWEEN the Center House and the White Horse in P ct
Market-street j containing two 10 dollar bank-notes, one of
of 50 dollars, and ore branch-bank-note of one dollar ; efts
Geororr ■ —- - r 1 ' ars, endorsed e£
00 dollars; a •.
r.cte cl - -I. Cur iat ,iPO ■ : for 75 dollars,
~Tr.H oSe of several other e " 1
bee
o receive any Ac
«-,f -jv i.ntrs, i' • ly perfoß Rut vvo
Jftiei ' . r.ocver will deli—
h 11 receive the P rl
ijo-. ■a. gx - AARON JOSEPH. Jef
j Ov-lober zi. *3 inai
Loft Last Evening,
At Rickctts's Arnphithe?tr», (supposed to be taken by f a f)
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket) ,
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET- BOOK,
Containing about 185 dollars in bank notes; three notes ' U "
of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 30^and 306, da
;ed 12th iaf? Augufl, payable 60 days after date, to the " t
order of I'auVSiemec, together for_j 150 dollars; an ordar /he
of Mrs. Ann IV acpherfon, from Paul Siemen, on Lach- ~ i
li» Mac Neal, Ef<j."at for 100 dollars; be- „
fides several letters and papers of no afe but to the proprie- 3
tor. 7he notes of hand and order afe without endorse- " a
mer.t. EIGHTY DOLLARS RIiWARD is offered to " 0
-•Hiy person who will dilcover and secure the thief, and '« b
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above mer.ti- „ ({
oncd notes aV,d papers at No. 129, corner of Front and <(
Mulberry.fireets. d T)&. 11. 1
'To be Sold, «•»
The Time of a smart, a£tive Negro Lad, " "
Who has £leven years to serve.
Inquire at N0.15R, South Froift-dreet. e<
' .O<ftolier 18. § "c;
"WAN IS EMPLOYMENT, «
A YOUNG- MAN just arrived in this city: would "J,
wifii 10 engngi as-a Private Tutor in a Gentleman's F*mi- r
ly He j-rofefT's the Rudiments of the Englifli, 0 1
Fitrch, and Latin languages. Writing, Arithm-rtic, are
t U"ii':oE and decimal Book-Keeping, Sur utile
veyii v , GN.'gii-.-g, JMavigation, Aflronomy, GeographV, chec
/ Iget-a. ftc-Jtc.. - t
'J hi PuUifber, by 1 c-rfon of his travels, (having visited e
I'uopi a ::ud Africa) has had an opportunity of , "
rr»<S(fi g : eft of the above Branches. " c w
A lir.c . ddrefied to C K——, and left at the fequ
•CTfio" cl Kaper, Ciall b# duly attended to. inn!
o£\:Ler 20. 3
K' ANTED,*
An yiPPRENTJCE to the Prirting Bufmefs. of d(
Ei;iyjirc atthis Office. how
, FOR TflE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED S FATES, j
Mr. Fen no, t
IT appe irs by the vote of the afTembly of Vir- «
gima, refpefting the contluft of Mr. Jefferfon. while J
governor of that (late, that " there had been popu- «
• ar rumours against him, wftich had some /
cetts " degree of credence by more pointed t
asd which had rendered it neceflary to mike an F
" e'-quiry into his condoft." h
Thc.aceufation w»9 that, on the approach bf a t
Mr. ; " ,roo P"», 'he governor of Virginia, be- o
trayed a want of ftrmnefs, and, hv his (light,canfed ii
3. '"jVy <« 'he state in the loft of records, &c. e
The veidift of the affemhly of Virginia, departing <>
ang. nlto f eth<; '- from the charge,. a « q „it« Mr. Jeffcrf«n
los th.it of which he Hot been accused, to'amely, ii
und, w » nt of ability and integrity, but gives no verdict b
°" barge of nunn: of jrrmnefi. This is not ci
linlike the proceeding of feme masters, when they S
R ,ve . ? ckaja<fter to a discharged servant who lias tl
ider f^l^rn '^ f° r drurtkenneft, and whom they de- ,0!
i'ribe as having-been very fiilhful, induJlrious zni ai
, bonejl. This afTembly of Virginia his been at all d
j'tnes remarkable for their vote* of thanka. The
ate Richard Henry Lee, a fenatm in congreft from ei
that (late, had acquired the severe displeasure o-f al li
the republicans rn Virginia, we know that it «
abounds with them) for having proposed 'itbefe- "
nate in the firft session the title of his higlnefs for "
the P:e{ident of the United States. It vtas never "
alcertained whether he wsg fir.cere in maling the "
motion, or only wished to disparage the led:ia! con. "
(mutton by such a manoeuvre. Certain hewever it th
ced " k i 1,0 lo " ' lls f ormei ' popularity in Virginia, and di
iant ' erf ore 'bought prroper to decline being a candi- at
itti. da,e ,lle expiration of his term ; yet strange to of
ny. el., the afTembly of Virginia gave him an unan't- w]
s m mous vote of thanks for his faithful fervicesin the fe- -
hv n ' te the United States. A (hort time after the a!
anembly of Virginia pafled a vote of thanks to Mr* a,l
Giles far having inrtituted an enquiry into tht : con- h
sin u 0 1 Secretary of the TreafuryMr. Harail
ton, when it was umverfally known, tfot tke fholt the
had was a party buftnefs, contrived merely to gel Mr. to
Hamilton out of office.—ln 1794, the of fcn
— Virginia, after having voted that governor Le had pai
abandoned his pod, as governor, by {.fiiimiig '.he I f
hat comma nd of the Weflern army (which certaifly Jef
ov. w o»ld bave been a very reprehensible aft) gjve hm Mi
f 5 " *" ® r,anirnol,,TO,e of thanks for his mfr//«/-»«.yfCtn- c ; p
duct, m having abandoned his post. Last y«ar, the cor
ra . of Virginia wished to vote thanks to the
lay ' re J l dent for his conduct, but the two lioufes coild f er
on. I for a long while agree on the proper wordiig to
of the vote ; the lower house were willing to ®-
_ pi ami his integrity and his Jrmnefs, but would rot 1...
acknowledge his wifdam ; the senate infilled oil tis | , _
tin ' R>i f'' om > » nd a /'« much debate, the President's tof
dom was carried in the lower house, by a mnjorty .i. a
r> ot two votes. But here, in voting thanks to » j
tngtoa, the afTembly of Virginia were not umni, gu:
mous ! ! , aci
These votes of thanks in the Hate Jegiflaturcs ire ft c
— becoming f« cheap, and so mitcb a thing of course «
that very little value is now annexed to them. ,1 r
They frequently pass nem. con. because those « »
who are oppofrd to thcrn, cepccivc that tt rfetme- rf t
or woord annex some importance to the prrfon wfw is .< j,
>f. to rcce _' vc 'banks. 1 remember hearing of'an in- )t (j
stance in a state l*giflature, where a 'ote of thanks „
was just about to pass, and the clerk „ r
whether it was to be entered unanimonfly, when the ts j
sudden arrival and opposition of a rtember brought « a
on a debate, and the vote w*s rejeOtd by a large mi. „ c
Id ' CJVIS. „J,
at F or 'be Gazjtte of the Ukithi States. „ *
d ' N PHOCION—No. VIII-
It has been ftatcd, that the object of Mr. Ad. <« 0
ams's book was to point out th'e-terdency of a Jin- « b
gle legislative branch to destroy the lijjerties bf tin- up
in P eo p'e- His reasoning in favotf' of a di3r|iution '<
ac of the legislative power into two branches,-jj|ld the «tl
" ; eflabliftiment of rhecks aud balances, hasbiWwie «n
a k . edl y P erverlec} into a reasoning in fupppri- «< ~
■s, v '' e g e( J orders. Who has nw seen j
cr effufions, and the low ribaldry, which has of late in
been disgorged from the jftctbine pre(fts ag^itillMr,
>y Adams's system of checks and Jbalances ? i WiiO' C u'
j' would have supposed, that Jimilar reasoning- and !
principles Were ta be found in the works yf Mr'.' !
Jefferfon, the faveriti of thofeprejfes, and tfce very ' *
man who had firll founded the alarm against Mr. W !'
Adams's system of cheeks and balanaes, in other r f"'°
-words, his political kereftcs ? Such however is the ' r
V fact. ,he
I« the Notes on Virginia, page 126, the l' erl
u tution of Virginia is condemned by Mr. tU ,
j. because "all the powers of government refulfeto f ,
ie " the legislative body." " The concentrating- .
>r (he adds) in the fame hands, is precisely the *de !"
"fuition of despotic government. It will be no
" alleviation that these powers will be exercii'cd by *!
.. •• a plurality of handi, and not by a lingle one. C ,
o " One hundred and feventy-threc defpoti would surely V
d "be as opprejfivt ?s one. Let those who doubt it, ''
d " '. urH tllC '' on l!le republic.of Venicf. As "*"
u " little will it avail us«that they are chosen by our
— " selves :an elective despotism W?s not the govern- " 1
" went we fought for ; but one which should " F
•' not only be founded on free principles, and in
' *' which the powers of government should be divM- " CT
'• ed and balanced among several bodies of magiflra- "
" cy, as tlmt no one could ttaufcerd their legal H
■ "mi 16, without being effectually ekeckcd and re 'bat
" flrained by the others." ' ing t
Now, here we find a very able recommendation A
of checks and balances ; and x we are told, that we pl'ct
»re not to trufl even those whom ■we eleS Ourfdvcs, v °'e,
unless checked by some other powe'j for, if not so j utJ g
, checked, they will instantly be converted into dec- R "> caf
j five dsjpots. haiif
£ Such were the opinions of Mr. Jefferfon, when core
he wrote his Notes on Virginia. Whether his sub- A
: sequent refidencein France has effected a total change w 'ber
intthefe opinions, we have not the materials.to de- firms
. . . thc *
• This concentration might be the establishment 1
of despotic governmant, but itis difficult to comprehend retno
how it is thc SfFiNiTloti of it a ( u |
""P"' tide ; those ve prffels, ifivolvrjif mvtrr ij oMcu 1
j rity*; in h'.s letter to Mr. Madiiou (torn
Paris, dated December 20, 1787, on the fulj.
of the new federal condi:a:ion, he fays, " 1 like
Vir- 'he negative given to the executive yer, a few
■hile years after hi"> return from France, this kind i
!p U . of che. k was ranked by him among . <v. Adams's <
ome political heroics ; and tho\ in that latter, he seems I
ohs, to approve of the djltributiort of tlie legislative t
an power, by the American conflitution, into two i
branches; yet he is said to have been consulted 1- 1
>f * bout, and to hare approved, the French confutation !
be- of 1791, whj.h vetted the whole legislative power t
ifed in one branch, and thus, according to his do&rine, 1
&c. eftabhThcd. (or, to use his expression, dejined) an j
ting eleSive despotism.
fori Tlie friends of Mr. JefFerfon, while they hold F
ely, him up as the quint efTence of republican't/m. a 8 eft to v
dift be' prodigiously alarmed left the enemies of republi- a
rtot canifm should gain the ascendancy in the United p
hey States. Nothing can be pore piepofttrous than ri
lias this filly affe&atiou. Those who make the molt d
de- .ostentatious parade of it, are known to be the molt ! »
jnd in their piivate life, their pubficcon a<
all du£t, and all their views
It is certain, that Mr. Jefferfon himfelf, what- *
om ever be might a!fe£t, enteriains none of these fi'ars.
'al In a letter, already referred to, from him, arc these
tit expreffioss : " The rising race (in the U. States) F
fe- " are all republicans. We were educated in roy
for " alifm : no wonder if some of us retain that idol
ver " atry ft ill. Our young people 'ar« educated in re
the " puhiioanifm ; an apvjlacy from that to royalifm,
jn. "is unpretedemed and impcjjible." What ground da
•it then for these apprehensions ? How 11111 ft every ju
nd dici»us and independent citizen reprobate such base tr
di- attempts to miftead the public, and to defame some J n
to of the brftcharafters in the United States? And of dr
nf. whon are these fears entertained >Of Mr. Adams! tu
fe- —a citizen who, through thp arduous progress of W J
he a long public life, has rever been betrayed into one o ia
I r . at, which his opppnents can objeift to him ; for, hii
in- rt is to be observed, that, although he has been in rei
il- public life, uninterruptedly, for near thirty years, p[ c
ile they dare net attack bis public conduct, but are driven jt
.r. to the wretched expedient of ci iiicifmg his political
of sentiments, by misquoting his writings. For my pre
id part, were I a southern planter, owning negroes, cf9
ie I should be ten thousand times more alarmed at Mr.
ly Jeffcrfon's ardent wish for emancipation, than at t ht
m Mr Adams's fyflem of checks and balances. Eman- ] y
n- ci'pation is a pontile thing : apojlncy to royalifm, ac- C oi
it cording to Mr. Jefferfon, i: imp o J,Ue. p 0
I have produced written sentiments of Mr. Jef of
1 ferfon, which will bear as unfriendly a conftru&ion anc
'£ to repubheanifm, as any t»ei bfiixed to Mr. Adams's an.
P works. I will now call on the" adverfaiies of the fen
'' latter to produce, from the works of the former, hac
'* a more glowing panegynck on, or a more affedion- soli
/ ats evidence of attachment to, true 4
y than it to be found in the following passage of Mr. froi
\ Adams s Defence. After pointing out, with great difj
? ability, the superior advantages of a republican go- the
veiemcnt, he lays, in page 95, " After all, let us to
e " compare every conffitution we have seen with Fr<
te " those of the United States of Ameriea, and we nee
f " have no reason to blush for our couony. Od 'he
e " "the contrary, we (hall feel the ftmn.pt we
C upon our Knees, to heaven, ftr
18 " having been graciously plpafed to give us birth 'be
" and education in that country, and for having def.' all 1
18 <« lined us to live under her laws. We /hall 'have hitr
8 11 reason to exult, if we make our campariton with •
" Fnglard, and the Eflglijh conjl'itution. Our people lU€1 U€
« are undoubtedly sovereign^ AH the landed and Po«
".other property is in the hands of the citizens-,— 'he:
« Not ohFy their representatives, bnt their senators
«< and governors, are annually chofrn—There ate
« ™ hereditary fitles, honors, offices, nor difmßiont.
<• ihe festive, "ecutive and judicial powers are D 1
" catefiiily separated from each other. The powers
,f , lhe 'hefitr, and the many, are nicely m '
'• " balanced m their legiflaturcs. Trials by jury are fi f g
f «- preserved in all tkeir glory ; and there is neLd- thc
» ' tng army. The habeas corpus is in full force - and
e » 19 'he mojl free in the world : and where
■ <> all 'hefe circumSauces take place, it is unneceffa
■ ty to add, that the Jews alone can govern." '
e T J." this pafTage, Mr. Adams t! oes beyond Mr. ,
. Jefferfon in commendation of democratic republi- •}
canifm, for he approves of the annual choice of T
d tht jcaUrs, as m New-England, while Mr. Jeff
. "ii, not content with a quadrennial election of P " b
the ftnate in Virginia, wants to invest that body ° Wll
. W ! ,h a " J exclujlvt privileges j Mr. Adams
r rejoicts that, wc have uo heredita.y diflinflieu, in V '
e ih mCnt ?l !' J ''Z l , W " dWiK^B «f clothing J
wealthy clait of Virginia with constitutional,
- r r T c,,t^ d ext!ufivc p riviif g". to r
hereditary 6 hav<
' r*«y e to attack with effect any part
, J , 6 r kn » w »' »a». 'hough so long
in puLhftl.fc, after falfly chaiging his book with —,
~ be .' Re " '7 monarchy and, privileged orders !"
' a cl 1 1? it, rrfpefting tfii, public
_ ccrndua : " When fevewl important queftiops, v. hich
r « had Tecoivcd the fandion of the w"
leiitauves, have been fubmuied to his decitior ' C
! '« , th \ f ' na,e ' upo " an eqoaldivifion
• , ! ,i3a '. b .°dy. he has uniformly decided aeain't ,
the opinion of the repiefentatives, which wc j r
, « yway reafonaiily f uppo f c to be the opinion of the 7
: ! I Mieve," he adds, "V member of 7™
'' congress will contradia this fafl." ' ure<
'"I
4
As the vicc: president is, by the constitution woul
placed ,n the chair cfnhe senate, with a c *(t,n e and
vote, it was intended that he (hould exocife to cj
judgni.m, m giving that vote : and whether the our c
measure », had been approved by the tious
1 °f or not, he ought not to ftate<
Concur, it his judgme«t.Jccidedly rejected it. the e
whereMrLams n ga^TthTJa-flrg e 7o r 'c be i"l^ t C ff [ZZ
fbTE of " rp "r h "i P'fTti '<"'dn
rcir.ovin. Congress from New-Vork • ,J,i. had h' 5
. uj* of w «a, , 0J
hfrti Ldfrc.d 'riumnh by the fmirh trn nwm . _
from because it was ar. ultimate ttcp tovra;cj a*' ? ,u'
! j I feat or government in a more southern fit,,,-;.
like -he senate weit equally divided on the
i few Mr. Adams derided in the affirmative, nrd on T '
kind ing asked by ft,me caftern member, who coird-in"
ims s ed that ftich vote had heen injurious to the ea(t
eSms ffates, w':y he had voted in the affirmative he m""
ative this memorable reply, which was related'to m/b"
two a member of the femue who heard him •' J)J
d i- whenever the fcnate were equally divided
ition fubjeft, which had passed the house of represent *
,wer tives, he ilmuld always vote with 'the Jo U u],, unl .r*
nne, he had very clear and convincing realols ir. hi*
1 an judgment again 11 it,''
The two houses differing afterwards as t0 ,1
hold place, whether Philadelphia or Baltimore,
ft to was then done ; but the residence bill passed
ibli- after. Here then is a f;3, which complett'y <j;f
ited proves Hampden's assertion, ajid which ouX
ban remove from the.minds of our feUow-ckizem!
noft degree of credit to the afferiions of this maii, ln ' t
noli: wru-er and others of a similar.(tump, who du not
:on- accompany their accufauona with proof.
at , _ PHOCION.
Zl CONTINUATION OF ' "
<0 FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
IT »r TUi LATk AKKIFAiS. y
tut' .
re- CONSTA NTINOPLE, July ~
' The last dispatches from the high admiral are
>nd dated from the .11, of S.io, where he renamed at
ju- «nch»r with his squadron, He takes to Limf If .
a ? redlt o{ bc ' n ß thc greatest hero and the fcrlt feamar,
me in the univcrfe ; because, with a confide,able f qua
"I dron of frigates and other armed vefTcls, he has cap
>s. tured a Maltele privateer, minting 24 g HH6 , si £
or which he intends to make his triumphal entry In '«
•ne curpoit. The grand fignior, who protects and loves
or. him, :s enraptured with this capture, which has been
m reprinted to him a«.a prdt&Hluax npr
rs. ploit of his favourite, whilst ail psople of fenfelaujjh '
en at the ridiculous vanity of the puny conqueror. °
:l1 Por these last weeks past the vigor of the warlike
ny preparations in this capital, as well as in the provin
f»> ces, has much abated } but councils of ftat- are held
Ir - more frequent than before, although the fnbjed of
at the deliberatiuns doe* not tranl'pire. It is general
ln - ly reported, that the late uanfaaions between the
|C " courts of Rnllia and Sweden have mueh alarmed the
Porte} and as the miniflerof thelatterjn the month
:f. of May dated a rupture between the two courts,
an and the breaking out of a war in the north to be
j's unavoidable, he was very ill receiver by the frisef
h« fendi, when he lately announced that the twocourt*
:r, had concluded a convention, by which a fincereatld
n- solid friendfhip was eftablithed for tl.e future.
% A French\raveller is arrived in thi» metropolis
[r. from Italy, and last from Bosnia, having under the V
at difgjiife of a merchant llolen into Trielte,.ai.<l from
0- thencc proceeded to Carlftadt, and from that place
us to Bosnia. Rumour lays, that he is to relide as
th French consul in Modavia, but this report flands in
ve need of affirmation* As to the. ambaiTador of
)o the French republic, v.ho is to relieve W; Terninac,
wc li».e »•„ rcect.«j „fte ieafrintellt'gence of him
ar although the Porte has ordered all the governors on
th «he continent, as well as in the Mauds, to grant h%i
f- ® U lhe honours due to his character, and to afford
ve him all possible assistance on his journey.
th Some of the French emigrants, who, at the re.
)! e quell of M. Verninac, were lately dismissed by the
id Por*, have aheady left theft but vvhe.
— 'ner for Rtiffia or is not known.
LONDON, September 9.
re D Cs P l - Drur y- of the Alfred, who I, ft
r| Kenommie French frigate, is the officer wheW
, rnanded the Endymion, which in the last war et,
r e 3 ,ltc ' l which, after having struck t<»
/. the tridymion, fired a broad-fide as the Enghlh
crew were going to board her. Captain Drury re.
e warded thii perfidy of the Dutch commander bj
~ rc '« r '" n K a fire that blew up the enemy's (hip, by
which evejy one of the crew perished.
r September 16.
1- -A^ n ' Bte ' et,er ' rom 'he4ltteflory to (he mi
t{ "I at war, on the reforms to be made in that
r. department, it llates, xhat tht-fntmim »f
public, deaf to lhe voice of humanity ind their
own intercfts, have refufed to accept the jiift and
' m °derate condniens of peace which the French
government lias n«t ceased, aad shall not cease to
<»tr them^
Bi.t when has the direftoiy made proposals of
peace 10 this country ? By whom, and to whom
have they been maHe ? And what was the nature
t and parport of these proposals ? These are prrffing
andl precifc queries, which we have a right to ad-
dre»s to the diVefteiy before we place implicit faith
in its vague and unsupported afferiions. Not only
:' c ['" iS " e,cr rna^e "* n Y pacificatory propoCtior.s,
(, u ®"__Furope knows with how much h'aughijnefs
it ttjriitil those wliich were made through Mr.
Wickham on the part of our cabinet. AH Ew
• rope has witnessed with indigna lion lhe insolence
with which it declined mediation of the kinjf
of Denmark offered by the emperor, our ally. We
defy the raoft icalous partizansof the French regi
men to dilprove the reality of these pacific itiea
lures ptirlucd by the cOaUfted powers ; or to provr,
t iat the French ever took a Sep of the fame na
-1 ture. r
: If the directory calls jujl and moderate conditions
■ terms which would fubjedt us to the lame despotic
influence as Spain is now groaning under, which
, would chain us down like the king of Sardinia,
; and force us to submit, like the king of Prufiia,
i to contributions being levied 'by the republicans in
our own dominions, or expftfe us to the fame vexa
tious proceedings is are experienced by the petty
1 (tales of Germany and Italy, tne national dignity,
the energy of our government, out iriim nfe re
eurces, and the dearest intcrefts of the people ean
never allow us to listen to the tike jut and moderate
conditions.
Besides, the moment is now arrived, when all
i-urope will be aWe to appreciate this new declara-
H»n „t thedireaory. The answer it r.turrs to
our aemartd !gr a passport to Paris, for a gwitlerr.aa» vrjf v.-
i© roalce overtures of peace, mull clearly (liow whe
ther the above declaration, like many preceding pro
fcfliont of the fame nature, was a mere imposture,
Or whether the dire&onr really wishes to put an
end to the calamities of the war, by a solid and
permanent peace.
The Dutch in their progress from a society of i
fifhermen to an affcmbly of high and mighty lords,
have kept tip the appearance of equanimity in their
greatell success. A Dutch merchant, who was un
commonly penfire after a very fortunate venture io
trade, being aflced thecaufe of his melancholy, re
plied, that he was thinking how he should further
improve his good fortune. May not the present
apparent despondency of the Batavian republic be '
attributed to the fame cause ? It is perhaps e-tt- f
ployed in lioiv it can improve rhe happy '
situation into which it has been brp't by French
fraternity.
The American papers announce the deith of 0
David Rittinhouss, the Nfwron of America. a
.PLYMOUTH, September 7.
The m«Dcalfn«.etinjr last week at Birmingham
fumed out very profitable to the charity. The re- 8
eeipts amounted to near £ 2,000. Cramer led, J 8
»nd the Wand was in every refpe£t coiftpofed of the
firft-rate talents.
A monument to the late lieutenant P. Cragif has j P
been erected at Plymouth, with the following in> ! P
■ fcription:
11 To the memory of lieutenant Patrick Cragif,
of his majesty's marine forces, who so nobly fell a(
in the action fought (between his majesty's {hip J'
Artois and the French national frigate la Revolu
tionaire) off Ufhant,on the 2 tftof O&ober, 1794, °®
aged 36. This monument is erefled by his bro-
ther officers, in testimony of their esteem for his
courage and virtues : ,tf
" Unaw'd by death, the noble Cragif bore ac
" The battle's rage, with honor to his eorps • of
" Till fate, alas! had doom'd the heroe's fail,
" By one inglorious—one unerring ball!
" When, with the firmnefs of a Roman chief,
• !t -.j,,** Whil&sll arounJJum with grief,
" His arms bequeath'd—then took his last farewell, ht
'• And, joining in the £houts«i viit'ry, fell P" to
The late earl of .Mansfield's eflatcs in Scotland th
do not excecd £. 6,000 a year, but the property of
he inherited from the great earl, and the accumula S.
tioiis arising from the most rigid economy in his
own expences, are immense, so that his son comes
into life one of the richest men in England.
BRIGHTON, September 7. ni
A young woman of Dublin, who was appre- so
heifive of some fruitful effects from an illicit amour tic
which Ihe had for some time carried on with aDutch tn
sailor, mentioned her situation to a friend of her's, I dii
wh« advised her to place her future offspring to the fu|
account of her master, as being the richer man of J®
the two.—" I was thinking of that," replied the dn
fair one, " bnt then, you know, the child will dif- at
cover all, when it begins to fpaii Dutch!"
PUM I IllliJ !.,!»" ' -tW ' . >-»W.TTW, G
" 11 ■ . Hi
Philadelphia,
MONDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 14, 179 <.
— Sh
Tn the Capt. Ewing, canre a number . '
of passengers, among them is the aldeft son of the
fete duke of Orleans.
By this arrival we have received Hamburgh pa
pfrs to the 3oth September ; from which we have Bn
time to pref«nt only the following articles— f
Frankfort, September'.i 3>
We supposed that the French would jjtere re
mained in their position on the Lahn near Wetz
laer and Gieffen, but they have already abandoned
both places. And at the troops which came out
of Mayence have already penetrated to Limbeurg
and Nassau, it is probable the French- will be
obliged to continue thi*ir retreat un,til they get be
hind the Sieg. The corps of the generals Lichen
fteift and Elfnitz have already passed Wetzlaer and
were very near the French i* their pursuit.
The imperial troops here consist o£ only one
company, which guard the gates. The" head- Slo
quartets of /he archduke are at Wetzlaer,
The penfants of the Btifgaw have taken arms
against the French and have taken fciany prifouers. "
A great quantity of artillery and baggagg of ]»
• all forts ha 6 fallen into the ha ids of the imperialists. r
A u(UU.t»fV»<n the Rhisc to fli e
ihe Danube took tip fifty two days, that of the Yo
. French from the Danube to the Rhine, fourteen.
We estimate, that the French armies fincc they foer
psnetiated into Germany have levieJ about 129 Ne\
millions of livres in specie, and more than 16a mil- !ra |
lions in requisitions of different kinds. £ ()i
Bam»i"vrg, Sept. 9. (,otl
On the 7th, the head-quarters of the Archduke p t j,
were at Shauffemburg. On the night of the 7th t j m ,
he received a coui»r from general Kray, which an- p,.„
nounceki that he had taken 2000 prisoners near €VC
Frankfort, and a park of artillery consisting of 80 g tcl
pieces of cannon. The French garrison of theci- J£|j z
tadel of Wnrtzburgh, furrendeitd prisoners to the s'
cumber of 1100 men.
September 12.
The country people are daily bringing in French
prisoners. A courier dispatched by gen. Jourdan
to ger. Moreau, has been intercepted. Letters of T
the Bth September from Regenfburg, fay, that a > n 4-
considerable body of Moreau's army belieging *oya
Ingolftadt, which was vigorously defended. C
They write from Augfhurg of the loth Scptem- Sept
ber,that Moreau was daily advancing in his career. New
His.progressing is attributed to his total ignorance 154
of Jourdan's retreat. ft,|p
Viinka, Sept. 8. out.
The favourable news from our young her*, th« >umb
archduke, has raifecJ our funtli p cr cent. The for ]
afTcmblilig of the militia of Bnheraia is suspended. then
We hear from the frontiers of Italy, that the ar- been
myof general Wurmfer has advanced four leagues, land.
We are also afTmed, that he woaid have acted of- Suec
fenfiveiy before this, but for an epidemic which as- «7 d
fefts every body on the frontiors. For this reason I 'ore,
the Auftrians have drawn a cordon on fheii iidc. flock
' ' *#* The foregoing tranflationrhave been nwd»
from German into French, and from French into Li
Enylilh, since ten o'clock this morning. 3r OW
, The papers further fate, that the sieges of Meatz, sages
* *
whe- Manhcira, Philipfljurg and Ehrinyeitren, hafff,
pro- been raised—The garrison of Manheiai had entered
ture, the Brifgaw? in order to intercept Moreau, fuppof- ■
t an ing him to be on the retreat.
and Another of the garrisons had crossed the Rhine, 1
and had taken Creutznach—Jourdan was retreating •
yof towards Luxembourg. -
>rds, ...
, h u t BY THIS DAY's MAILS. \
( re . BOSTON, October 17. £
Arrived Barque Columbia, Capt. Hutchins, 42
sent d, 7 s rom Gibralatr, from the American consul
[j c Simpfon, he learnt that gen. Wurmfer, had caused S
~n . the siege of Mantua, to be raised, and compelled J
ppj. the French to quit Italy. A very severe action 5
nt s, having taken place, the republican army having S
loft 15,000 mdn, and all their ordnance and, flares. S
0 f (Jj" '' e t'jnccive thit to be the ramification of the euentj g
ca _ anterior to theft which are narrat'ed in the Utters ef S
Gen. Buonaparte. Si
lam Mr. Window arrived at Alicant, aboot 20th Au
re- B"®- Of Cape de Gates, was boarded by an A 1 t e
| e( j I gerine corsair, whom he supplied with water. The m
the Algerinehad with him the fliip Betsey, capt Samp- ) e;
! son, of Boston. The English ships in the Spanish Sc
|, a3 | ports were embargoed j but no hoftilitie* on the £,
j part of the English had yet taken place, and small B
j vefTels frfim Spain visited Gibraltar as usual, t u
{if yesterday's arrivals we have received a vague
fell wcount, that the French had not succeeded at St.
l„-p John's. The vessel that brought this intelligence, SI
,| u . fays, that the French fleet were seen beating on and
off shore, with top-fails set.—This we do not un
ro_ derftand. This does not look as if they defeated,
his honorable James Sullivan, ycfterday
returned, from his million to the caftward without Bi
accompliflilng theobjeft of his million.— I The court
of demarcation has adjourned to Boston.
NEW-YORK, paober «. Sc
In a late difenffion before'the council of five
llj hundred, in France, on the fubjcA of theamnefly
to be extended to the emigrants, it appeared thst
nd the number of petitions from that unfortunate class
ty of citizens was no less that SEVENTY THOU- „
la- SAND ! PU!
118 —
; es _ FROM HALIFAX,. i
Yefterdny arrived the ship Argus, captain Fan- -
ning, in 8 days from Halifax—Capt. Fanning in- ,
re- forms, that, that place had been in great conflerna- ,
ur tion, fearing an attack ; the militia from theitoun- j
ch try were brought in town for a few days, and then
's, difmifled; the fortifications were repairing.—lt was
h; supposed th»t the French deft were crtWzing offst.
of John's, Newfoundland. Admiral Murray's fqua
he dron, except the Thetis and Topaz frigates, were
if- at Halifax. »■
p rc
m GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST. na l :
dry
PHILADELPHIA, =
ARRIVED. Days J U
Ship America, Ewing, Hamburgh 27 ,j
:r . ... Collet, Liv«ij,uol 33 —
if Maria, Ferria, Bordeaux 3 2
Fame, Wilson, d Q . 42 5
1. Amiable, Tillinghafl, Cadiz 35
e Brig Molly, RufTcl, Bourdeaux 40 ,c
Ann, Cowperthwaite, §t. Petersburg 56
William. Lunt. Bourdeaux 60 *
; Phcenix, Anderfon, Norfolk 4
;. Folly, Coffin, Buflon g
d Schr. Swallow, Weft.lndies ' 1
it Rambler, Weaver, Rhode-Island 5 tak
g Induflry, Doolittle, Halifax 42 whi
c Fortitude, Taylor, Virginia 18 —
; Thomas, Brown, Pifcataway ic
1. Success, Hjidgfon, Boston II 3°
d Eagle, Barron, Norfolk 7 a
Harriot, Green, Virglia 7 a
e Betsey, Cox, Frederickfburgh 30
|. Swop Lydia, Guthry, St. Thomas 23
Farmer, Scherer, Port-au Princ# 30 Ten
is Eliza, Jackson, Aaltimore 18 Wii
The Nfaria, Ferris, failed front Bourdeaux the
11 17th Septetnber.
The brig Fly, Hubber from London is below,
u Ihe failed in company with the James arrived at New C
e York. ~*~
The fliip Amiable failed from Cadiz Septera.
) ber 11, and left there ships America, Baxter, sos
9 New York, Hazen, Cobb, of Boston tor do. Neu- v
- trality, Baker for do. New-York, Clark, for do.
Robespierre, Field of Boston for Malaga, Eliza- t
both, Thurfton, of Providence, for Hamburgh,
' Friends Adventure, Cildwell of Baltimore for Bal- s j
1 timore, Fortitude, Dyer of Portlahd, for do. brijs cllt '
' Pt -Rgy» Todd, of New-York for do. FJiza, and
r ,v - onnor Philadelphia for Malaga, Induflry, ' n !
1 Stewart, do. Lydia, Dunham, for Boston, r Sere
Eliza, and a fchooncr for New-York. ' T 0 "
Ship Sea-flower, Bollard, Flag of Truee from low
Philadelphia arrived at Cherburgh, Aug. 18. Nee<
Hoo
Providence, October ij. gidd
Thursday arrived the brig Louisa, capt. Briggs, kind '
in 44 days from Hamburgh, having performed her
voyage out and home in 103 days.
Capt. Briggs spoke the following veflVle —
Sept. 5, in the British Channel, Ship Hare, of T<
New-York, Farter from Batavia for Hamburgh, In
154 days out. Sept. 12, lat. 49, 30, long. 6, 42, tancc
P Fox ' New-York for Hamburgh, ie davs the E
° Ut " . °J?' 8 - lat - 41. 36. long- ss, Ship Co- A PP'
lumbia, Greenltaf, of Newbury. P«rt, from Norfolk
tor London, 10 days out. Capt. Greenleaf was
then supposed to be at the point of death, having ff
been taken ,11 of a fever the day after leavinr the M
land. oa. 11, tat. 40, 14. Long. (50, fch'r. JP
I Suecefs, Ferry, from Dighton for Cape Francois,
17 days out ; had met witha gale , f ew d ay , he- , f
lore, when he,loft his foremaft, and most of his fre ;L
flock on-deck, and was returning l 0 Newport. aL
Capt. Bngg. left at Hamburgh (August 25) * 1
34 fail of American vessels.
Last evening arrived the fliips Minerva, capw-'n , Elt
Brown, and Neptune, capt. Jacobs, after short pas- J,
sages from.St. Pcterfourgh. PP-
•* • . , -<•
fiStff October 17. 1
tered ARRIVED. ' " Diy<.
3 pof. Schooner Bilbos, Alnahami, Cadiz 52
Ship Mercury, Todd, Hull 60
[jine, En')? Byfiel'd, Parfonj, Russia 58
iting Ship Lydia, Chipman, Grenada 25
Brig Little Cherub, Hayraan» do. 35
Cameleon, Dil'more, RufEa 93
Ship Elizabeth, .Cafwell, Hamburgh 74 i
Brig Cyrus, Blake, do. £4
Ship Adventure, Lombard. Lisbon 57
Schr. Harmony, Gardner, Goadnloupe 37
14 2 Hiram, Tilfon, St. Thomas 29
>nfu! Speedwell, Alibnrton, Atix-Cayes Z9
''fed Ship f)?!ighr, Wilson, Liverpool 64
riled Briij Three FrifHds, M'Cr»ady, do. 52 j
Ship Franklin, Chafrey, Bourdeau* 54
r '"fT Ship America, Woodward, London 46
ires. Schr. Sukejr 4 Betsy, ingerfon, Martinique 32
teat.l Brig fliza, foljer, 49 '
"f Ship Jane,-Inglelby, Madeira 31 t
Schr. Amy, Porter, St. Bartholomew! 22 (
11 " Arrivtdytjitrday—fhip Hopkins, St. Pe- a
A 1 lers J . jSliip Eliza, Barnard, India; Brig Tele- f
Ihe raachm, ?eafe, Gotten burgh ; Ship Hope, thand- $
n P' ler, Liverpool ; Brig Alexander, White, Cadiz ;
Schr. Hope, Craft, Liverpool ; Bark Hope, Watts
the Liverpool ; Brig Elizabeth, Erwing, Peterfbarg ;
nail Barque Columbia, Hutchini, Gibraltar } Brig Nep
tune, Jamaica. {
? uc New-York, Oilober 11. *
St. Arrivals at this fort. Days. b
ice, Ship Argus, Fanning, Halifax 8 lr
ind Four Sifters, White, Anguilla 16 cl
un- Farmer, Macey, 28
5. Cere*, RatrrV, do. 25 "
lay Arefhufa, Coffin, PortfajUUth (N. C.) 4
jut Brfg St., Bartholomew, Otter, Stockholm 90
urt Happy, Chapman, Anguilla 16
Nancy, Hunter, Havannah 35 Si
Sally, Walton, Hull 43 in
Schr, four Sifters, Wellman, Baltimore 16
ve- "
3y ' ■
1? , Mr. Fenno,
a fit "tew Gazette has lately announced the arrival of our j _
it Veflels in fleets from all parts of the world.—Please to
puMift the following eftufioii ou the occafioa. E. aI
The patriot eye the Globe fur/eys, >
And views'with rapture and amaze,
Columbian-Slips -*ith fails unfurl'd,
ip. Engrofstbe commerce of the world, ?'
; n . Whole fleets convey our treasures home,
ia- Whole fleet 3 rich laden are to come ;
While thoufanclt croud our favor'd (bore,
In foreign ports are thousands more.
e " Hail precious, wife neutrality ! t
|3S This glorious scene we owe to thee. '
it. 1 ho'grumblers growl and pirates-teize, of
a Thou fweep'st the commerce rftbe leas. th
re th
The throng of business at the Cufiom House at the
present moment exceeds all former example in the an- "
nals of American commsrce. Thirty seven reflels with "
dry goods were difiharging this day at the wharves "
of this city.
I*' <
7 | „ (
rs Just arrived, and will this day be lan- "
, _ ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at Chefnut
'' ftrect wharf.
25 Tons bejl Rvjia Clean HEMP,
5® Tons old Sable flat IKON,
r- aoo Colli belt Russia COHD vGE, aflSrted fires, In
IS 4°® Pieces brown Kuffia SHEETINGS, St;
(.0 «co Bohs Russia DUCK, ; '
■ 540 Pieces Raveni do- v
- 20 Half-down feather beds, and
>0 A few piecesafforted DI.iPER. tln
4 FOR SALE BT
9 , Joseph Anthony and Co.
« The above menti .ned BRIG will filin 1 few days, and ha
5 tak - freight on ibodeiaie terms for Bolbpn or Salem, for ~~
, 2 which, or paffagt, apply on board, or as above.
'g October 84. sot d
[® Madeira Wine. Sei
1 J 30 Pipes of the very best quality, and fit for immediate o f'
„ use, jull imported in the schooner I.ucy from Madeira
a»d for tie by ' ™
[0 John Craig, th«
,» No. 12, Dock-street.
Who has for Sale, •' r
I? Tenkriffe Wine, in pipes, hogOieads, and qr. caiks. " c
8 Window Glafi. # the
y. Segais, &c. &c. " j
i'wo trunks of the best Cotton and Silk tht
v, Hosiery.
w oflober 24. mwftf __
Imported in the late arrivals,
1 ' ylnii so be Sold by
JACOB PARKE, r—r
No. 49, North fide of High-street, Philadelphia, 1
3 " * GKNRKAL AStdkTMRKT OT On
]] Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c. t er
l' AMOVGIT T/H.ICH ARE ' "/"■
SMITHS' AjiviU, Vices, and Files; Saw-mill, Cross- ?!
,3 ; cut. Hand, and other Saws; Carpenters' Planes Chisels .
~ .and o<her Tools; C V ving Chisels and Gouges; lock, ?"!
r . Hinge?, Bolts and tatches; Nails, Sprig., Tacks, and 1
f5 rew S Frvmg-Pans; Smoothing-irons; Shovels and
Tongs; Coffee Mills; Candlesticks; Snuffers; Warming-
Pans; Table Knives and Forks ; Riding Whirfs ; Bar-
I™ P en > a » d other Pocket Knives; Razor, ; Sdffars; T
Needles; Ivory and Horn Combs; hell Kirby Fish
Hooks; brass C abinet Furniture; Waggon Boxes; Sheet c <™
Brass; plated and tin'd Bridle Bits and Stirrups; ditto par
saddle Nails; Girth and Straining Webbs;—with totft t
I, * lnd ' of Ironmongery, Cutlery, sadlery, Brass Wares.
oCC. Ac.
- ° <S " t ' gr 2 4- mwf6w
lo be Let, the v
i Two Rooms, furnijhed or unfurnijhed, w«
, In a 1 three-story Brick House, at a very fmill aif- the
i tancq from the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe. The use of A Pf
j the Kitchen r»ay be had, and that of a Cellar.
. Apply at this ©ffice.
October *4. <•
. The Schooocr INJ)U3TRY, in S J
sixty-seven tons burtkcDj almost a aew
Vfijtl and wtil iound. £or terms %pplj to rca
' uUr .n • J°J epb Anthm y Ct. Onl
4K!r2SS"it *"*"" «* t l
. *"*■ e4 - d 7 t_ h«uf
Wants a Place, 'i O3
fcither at Clerk or Book-Keeper in a Store, a Person trees
who can product good references as t<» charaaer, & c . be is
Apply at the Otlice of thi* Gazette.
October 14.
/
'• 'XX/" a Stnat»cn iw CLfiftK,in rt-rfemtitf ' cure
),yu V V ill thirl city, a young man >vh; «a:i he well r.o.
mendtd : he is well acquainted with book-keeping, s.'.c 1 .
writes a good hand. Enquire of the editor ot the Ga
„ zetteof (is United States.
5" October 23.
25 — r — —
35 A CL OSE COACH, wh eh has run about 7 months*
93 aft'! & pair of brbwn, afcfe-bodied houses, for f:l« '
i" on reasonable terms. Apply at No. 6j, iju:h Third*
' street.
54 P S The coaeh is more parlicularly calculated for tli«
57 winter season, having large giali fights and Venetian, blinds.
29 Boarding and Lodging
2<j T\TO GEN7LEVIEN may be acce.nimoda'ed witfi
g Boardin? and Lodging, itv a private family and pleasant
r T P lr( ; of the city. Apply to the Printer cf th* Gazette of
5 2 the United States.
54 O-Stober 11, tt&stf
f 2 _ NOTICE.
49 'T'HE Sutferiter, having been reduced >n his circurrt
j i flanccs, hv sundry misfortunes, and bei«g thereby
5 unable to fetisfy his jull debts, hereby give* notice to his
z Creditors and to all persons roncerned, that he intends to
e- apply to the Ge.-rral AlfcmMy of Maryland at theiWrt
'If- session to be held on the fir it Monday of NovCmberTknc".
f° r benefit of an a& of insolvency.
z . WILLIAM fiDMONDSON
Us £afton< Ift of the 9th month,} 79& lawtiHMN
g; No. * jf 4 .
rp- JJi/tria of Pcnn/ylvar.ia s to «,,>
C TDK it tha: on the 16th dayof g c »-
j seal i U temberin the t weflty-firfl year of the hide
vs. V T W -> P c " dence of United States of America, A.
r braham Bradley, junior efthe T-id Diitrid,hath deposited
® in this office, the tkle of a ; Map, the right whereof, h«
10 claims as author in the words following" to wit,
28 " Map of the United StMes exhibiting the fixations.
25 " nn " hcn5 tl & di!l f nc '- s o( roft-Offices, Stage-roadw
Counties, Ports of Entry and Delivery for For«™ vef
Ids, and the principal rivers, '
?° " By ABRAIfcM BRADLEY; jun.V
I& In conforKiity to the Ad of the Cor.greis of the t<hk-4
35 f tnt " ,nt,t "l=d "An afl for the encouragement of learn- -
13 '"S b y'"uringthe copies of maps, charts, and books to
16 • au ' hl " s and Proprietors of fi»ch copies dariwr
times mentioned. f
S'tmtai CalJwrli, Chri,
T , . , , of Penn/ylnjtnia,
ur p I A.b e ma P, ma 5 r hid ef the author at the General
18 fnd « V e, f*r m t0 J- War-Office in Fifth-Street,
and at his houf , No. 7?, corner of Crown Street and
? r T p'e 7 b " waen 4 th <nd and Vine and Cal
n'J rnV ' ' CeS l-T 34 M 5 del!sr ' - "Cord
ing to t.ie manner in which they are finifted. The pro
gress (or arrivals and departmres) us the Mail on the Main
Line may be had separate for 51 ■t cents.
o(it ' 3 " taw6w.
No 1 si. ' : "
_ DiJlrtS of Pennfyt-uania, to <wit :
• " ' emem ' >crfd > f hat on the seventeenth day of Se»»
JLJ tember, in the twenty- rflyearol the independcncie
" f ', he , "" ued America, William Mitchell, of s
thefaid drftriA, depofned in this ofEce the title ot a book
the right whereof he claims as author, in the words so&
lowing, to wit:
" A new and complete system of book-feeeping, by aa -
' method of double entry, adapted to rftail.do.
th « meftic and foreign trade; exhibiting a variety of ttanfr
es actions whicn usually occur n> bufinef». The «fhnV
- a Tr^ Cd in ' htec { T ° ! b80lts: thc fetheihff aco J
' „6f r l con ' according to those lyflems most gcoerallV
_ in use, is given ,1, order to exhibit, by a comparative
ut , VICW > thc advantage.of hefyftem ho* ia,d4ow„. p,
• which IS added a table of tke d»ue» ? ay*b»c oa gom£
wares and merchandise imputed into the United St««»
of America. Ihe whole ,n dollar? and ceatl,
" By William Mitchell."
In conformity to the ad «f the 0 f t £ c Un i K i
States, intituled, " An ad lor the of S
I"?' 7 h f " Url "f the "Pi" «/ chaft, and hookT«
the authors and proprietors of such copies, duri« a th c
tioies therein mentioned." * ™
SAMUEL CALDWELL, e>k. diH.
N. B. The above Book is now ml* be
f of the Booksellers OAqLc * '
No - .'5 3 -
JJiJlriti of Pennjyhtnia, to 1u f.
i remembered, that on the twenty-fourth day of
:e vf™ ";, 1 ", f ' le tv " M e yf ft )•<-•« Of the indepen 'en.e
a, t h/fl i u"," ° f neri ". William Cobbett of
I LX' th rtr "?/ w!thdepi ° fltei in this office the Title of
a Book, the right whereof he claims as prooriotor i tl
the w©rds folloiving, to wit, - * •*
.. "J he P ° li . tic f l Genfor ' or Review of the moit i'af
.. " f A g p ? l,tica '^occurrences relative to the United Stat
,t Afl fT J r J>orcu P'ne' , _In conformity
«' An Aa°for rb ° f the Bnited intitule
tb. r « r* 1 encoura g ot ncnt 0 r learning by fecurin
t the Copies of Maps, Charts and Books to the authm
and proprietor, of such Copies, during the times ?her!i
ateqtioaed." SAMUEL C'ALDWeLL* plerk
Dlftriifl Penni^'lvania.
Mr. FRANC fs, ~"
(Of tb* New Theatre)
I rk 1 opportunity of returning thanks trr hi*
Scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends
ob his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
• I- r n ic m ?' Up ° n a plan entlrei y new. He
fiattcr* himfelf that his attention to his pupil, hi
. J- V 1 renders any promises of conduaiug his future
fthernes on the molt liberal and flriaeft terms, of pro
, P riet y> totally unneceffery. ™
I Private tuition as ufuah
i June 3
To be disposed of, 1
. 'T'HE lime of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, wW
1 « , ha!betw « n /*Uf and five years to ferv 5 : She
c can be recommended for her fbbriety and honelly. For
> particulars enquire at No. i 3», Chefnut-Areet.
' - A "B* 3- ' wScltf
Wanted to Rent^
A convenient, well furnijhed Bed Chamber,
With a good fire-place, in an airy and healthy part of
wU K P ? Wh " ™ aats to res " such a chamber,
would have no objection to board, or hrcakfaft only, witH
the family occupying the house, as may o £ most agreeable.
• Apply to the printer. B
September 19. t|w
To be fold,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbwy, eoun-
J. i ty of Gloucester, and ftateof New-Jerfcy, contaiu
mg about one hundred and fifty aeres; a t'uiubie propor
tion of which is Woodland and improved meadow A
gr=»t part of the arable land is in a high state of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the produdion of Red Clover
Onfaid plantation there is a genteel two-story brjck ho«re
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, cern-cribsand carriaee.
U - Ihe garden ls-large, and contains a irood colJec
tion of the best kinds of grafted and inoculated frrfit trees %
the orchard confift s of about three hundred grafted app Z
Any person inclined to purchase said preroifes, may
be informed ef the terms by applying to -
■ ANDREW HUNT£R.
J u 'y *9 F
''' * ><r
THIS DAY PUBLISHED,
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price IS Cents)
The President's Address
T<> the People of the United States, A f
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
tat the expiration of the present couftitutional term ef T3
pfeCdency.
Srffnber 10. d
Watson's Answer to Gibson. \
i
JUST RECEIVED, 1
And for tale by J. OH MROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
Apology'for Ohriftianity, air
In a Jiriet of Letters, addressed to
Edward Gibbon, _
Autiter of the History 61 the Decline and Fall of the
R.oman Empire:
Bv R, TVATSON, o- v. f. r. s. B'ifhop of Landaff. •*-
(Price 75 cents bound )
Watson's Answer to Paine, <=«
To be had at the fame place.
The enemies of Religion are awake ! Let not her
frit:: \? sleep.
r. mw&ftf
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
Souchong
Hyson Skin )
Young Hyson V FRESH TEAS 13
Hyson and \ 4 c
Imperial _
Yelldw Nankeens 63
China Ware, aflorted in Boxes and Chests
Quiekfilver in;
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in er
chefh so
London Market ~f MADEIRA WINE to
London particular >in pipes, hogflieads, & j n
New-York Market J quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogflaeads
Sugar Candy by the Box co
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8 jj 1
. Lead in Iheets 0
3 Calks of Cutlery aflorted et
A few chests of Manchester Goods, afiorted.thick
iets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black fewing-filka
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-roK. m
Nails aflorted in calks —
July 18 mw&f
70,000 Pieces Nankeens, j
v Of the befl quality and on reasonable terms,
TOR SALE B7"
Philip Nicklin £sf Co. c "
August 16. dtf da
For Sale,
AThree-ftory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut " n
street, between Front and Second streets, in which
Melfrs. James Calbraith &Cb have for many years (and 0 f
now do) carried on business. vv
Poffcflion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or .l
HECTOR CALBRAITH. al
April 21. § '
A Manufactory FOR SALE. p
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa&ory, situate
'in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new, ,
on an entirely original conftru&ion, anci built of ihe best 1
and may be set to work immediately. Persona Z€
whowiftito purchase, arc requested to apply at No 273, at
South Second Street.
September 13. t t f tf «
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE. £
No. 63 South Third street, opposite the national new Bank, h
SAMUEL M FR \UNCES and JOHN VAN REED, f e
have entered into co-partner(hip, under the firm of
FRAUNCES 5c VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and _
fell on commiflion every fpeeies of stock, notes of' hand,
bills of exchange, houses arid lands, &c.
Money procured on, deposits, &c. &c. all kinds cf "1
■writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand J
dJfpatcfi -, accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the o
rnoft correil manner. Constant attendance will be given, p
They solicit a (hare of the public favor; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it. 2
N. B. The utmost f'.crocy observed. a
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, li
JOHN VAN REED. p
Philad. Augdft 47, 1790- m&wtf p
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796. 1 41
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be're- ; "
ecived at the office of the Secretary of the Trcafury j "
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en- "
suing, for the supply of all rations which may he required J "
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of i *
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, >798, both , "
days inclusive, at the'places and within the diftri&s hire- ) "
after mc'nf<idri<rd, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at "
Pjcfque lfte; at Sandulky Lake, and on Sandulky *
Kiver ;at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Ffank- *
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton; €
it Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon; at Grenville; at '
Picque, I'o\vn ,and Loramics Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fart Defiance; at any place below Fort .
Defiincc on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort 1
Steuben ;at Fort Maffac ; at any place from Fort MafTac I
to the Couth boundary of the United States on the river ]
Mifiifippi; at Fort Knoi; at Ouiatanton. c
If supplies (hall be required (or any polls er places not i
mentioned in this notice, all fttch supplies (hall be fur
riilhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
pofls before recited, or ai may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contraiftor.
Die rations to be supplied are to coniill; of the fol
lowing articles, viz. i
One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
-or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiskey.
Onequart and half 4 pint of falt."^
Two quafts ef Vinegar, < hundred m ; en ,
1 wo pounds of boap, f r
One pound of Candles, J
The rations aTe to be furnifhed iafuch quantities, as that
chere Ihall at all times during the said term, be fuflicient
-for the consumption of the troops nt Michilimackinac, Dc
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
advice, and at each of the other pods, for the term of
it !caS three months in advance, in good and wholesome
-piovifions.if thefamc stall be required. It is to be Un
derstood, that the Contra&or isto be at the exjente and
r flc of iiftiirgthe supplies to the troops at each post, and
ill faflained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by mean: of the troops of the United States, (hall be psiitl
for at ihc prite of the articles capturcd or destroyed, on
the dvpofii' 35 of two or more persons of creditable cha
i-Acfs, iinil tits certificate of a commiffioncd officer, af
.Wrtajfiinjr the circur.iftances of the loss, and the amount
31 ilxaitTdss fsr wiich compensation Iball be claimed
OI.IVERWOLCOTT,
- S*«r«t»ryof the TrciJiiry.
■
JOHN MILLER, Juri. & Co.
No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late veflels from Europe, &c.
AND HAVE 10R SALE,
A geaeral affortraent of GOODS, suitable to the season— EOl
Amongst which are, 1
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS, t
Flain and twill'd COATINGS, i
Rose striped aad point BLANKETS, N
FLANNELS and BAISES,
HATS aflorted in cases, fiu;
IRISH, LINENS, 181
INDIA GOODS, generally, are
A Consigned Invoice of IRONMONGERY, Lit
' Comprising a capital aflbrtmentto open aftore—inc'u- ere
ding Thirty Caiks of NAILS. This invoice will be fold
entire on very advantageous terms. ere
September jo. <1 Oi
— cO ,
' Lottery
FOR raifiag fix thou find fix hundred and sixty-seven Q(
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a pries, viz C r<
I Prize of 5000 dollarsis dollars 5000 fit,
r I 1000 1000
I 500 500 pe
5 aoo loco j},j
20 100 »coo m ;
99 jo 49J 0 w<
ioo / i.5 5000 s e t
zooo 10 10,000 w i
j Last drawn numbers of rooo dollars tach, 5000 V a
4334 Prizes. an
4018 Blahks. in
— us
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars e3#h, 44.4J0
By order of the DjreSors of the Society for eftablilh- wl
ing Ufeful Manufadlures, the fuperintendauts of the Pat- to
n erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the 16
foregoing Ssheme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to those persons who have purchased a 1
jj in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets m
in this Lottery. je
The lottery has a&ially commenced dfawing, and will e<s
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes fti
may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64 a s
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may b« procured. fe]
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N GUMMING, ") to
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, >-Managers, ph
JONATHAN RHEA, ) da
dtf eo th
Samuel Richardet, g»
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia:
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the
_ daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos-
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be r«gularly filed
" and none permitted to be taken away on any account. A
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
"* of French Liquors; together with the usual refrelhments, H
wiU at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most "
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
_ The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemep, may be re
te accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is _
regularly k«pt for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
" at tha bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other c
requisite.
gf Sambel Richardet will beh?ppyto receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
k- himfelf that nothing on his part lhall be wanting to pre
"» serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguiflj- '
°singlyfingly fionored.
fs, Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
ad __ :
ld> Treasury of the United States.
c f TOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
\ may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
he of the Fundid Diht, or Stoci, bearing a frefent inlertft oj Jix
;n. per centum per annum..
•x- ill, That pursuant to an A<ft of Congress palfed on the
18th day of April, 1796, intitled an ait in addition to an
aft. intituled " An ati making fuither provision for the
support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the faidde"bt or stock will be reimbursed and
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
~ " to be made dn the last days of March, June and Sopum- _
i " ber for the present year, and from the year onethou 'aad
i " seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one tiou
re- ; " sand eight hundred & eighteen inclufiv4,at the rale of
iry ■ " one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
;n- «« Secondly, by dividends to be, made on the last day of
■ed | December (or the present year, and from the year one
of i " thoufapd seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year T
>th " one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at ti
re- ' " the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
at " ginal capital;and by a dividend to be male on the last 0
[ky " day »f December, in the year one thousand eight hun- a:
ik- " dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
n ; " quate, according to the contraA, for the final redemp- v
at " tion of the said stock." 1
at ad. All diftindion between payments on account of f>
ort liiterefl and Principal being thus abolilhed by the eftablilh- il
ort ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement above de- a
Tac scribed, it has become necessary to vary accordingly the tl
ver powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public ti
creditors will therefore observe that the following form i
jot is eftabliffiedfor all powers of attorney which may be t
ur- granted after the due promulgation o( this notice, viz. v
the KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I
on I tf {
Jo make y conjiitute and appoint *
sol- of my true and lawful At- a
torncy,for andin my name, to receive tlx dividends ivbieb are,
or Jball he payable acaord'mg to laxu, on tht (her# describing the c
5 of stock) flan ding in my name in the books of (here describing the 1
books of the Trcafury or the Commiffioncr of Loans, l
where the flock is credited) from (here mfert the com- *
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
cn9 attorney is to coutinne) tvitb power.afro an attorney or attor- 3
nics under b)m y for that purpose to make and fubjlitute, and to do all c
lawful a&s requ'Jitefor effecting thepremifes, hereby ratifying and r
hat confirming all that my said Attorney or hisJhlfiitutc,fbaU lavjitl
ient ly do, by "virtue hereof. * L
Dc- In ivitnefs hereof\ I lave hereunto set my Hand and Seal the 1
.9 in day of in the year '
iof Sealed and Delivered y '
ome in prefenctef, £
Ui> BE IT KNOWN.that on the day of * j
and efore me personally came
and within named and acknowledged the above litter of attorney to be [
or bit aft and dttd.
ptfid In tejlimony whereof I katoe hereunto set my Hani and affix
y on §d S'al tbt day and year last afortf aid.
cha- Given under ray Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
, as- tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions
sunt from the S&tetarv oFthe Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Irrtfurrr if the United States.
y. Jnlyil* & j t 1 J,
Valuable Real Estate,
For fait at Auß'ion by Casper Thicll, of Hamburgh
late the property of James and William Kinnear. - n j,
■ For sale by public auction,on the 9th day of November
next ensuing, at the-fign of Gen. Washington, Wood s
tavern, t borough of Reading, Berks county, the follow
ing real estate, viz.
XT \ TRACT of land containing 46530-05 with
I' M\. allowance for roads, called the Pur chafe,
fiuated in townihrp, Berks county, patented, 00/
18th of Jan. 1788. This tra&, of which about 25 acres
are cleared, is of good foil, situated on the or
Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, on which is
- ere&ed a-good log dwelling house and liable.
i No. 2. A tradt of unimproved Itnd, containing 284 a-
cres, with allowance, &c. <alledHopewell, patented 28th
O&ober, 179©, situated in Brunfwick townflaip, Berks s
county, foil good. _ 1
No. 3. A tradl of unimproved land, containing 376 a
crea with allowance, &c. called Hillfburg, patented 28th
n Odlober 1790, situation, &c. as No, 2.
r No, 4. A trail «9<f unimproved land, containing 388 a
cres,with allowance, &c. patented 28th of O&ober, 1786,
0 situation, &c» as No. 2 and
0 No. 5. A tra& ofland, containing 268 acres, and 52
0 perches, with allowance, &c. situated in Brunfwick tcrwn- a
0 ship, Berks county, on Tomagua, or little Schuylkill, 5 3
0 miles above the town «f Hamburg,on which i» ere&ed a
0 well finifhed two flory fquaredlog dwelling house, 27
0 feet by 35, within the distance ot 100 perchesfrem a forge,
0 with the advantage of a ferry and public house; these ad
o vantages render this tra& very valuable.
- No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, enelofed with a poll
o and rail, or board fence, containing in front, 60 feet, and
in depth 18© feet, fubje& to a ground rent of 776 per an
num.
o No. 17. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed as no 16, to J
1- which it adjoins, being of the fame dimensions, and fubjefl £ n j
t- to the fame ground rent,on which is ere&ed a log stable, t * c j
ie 16 by 18 feet Drs
n No. 18. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No. 17, 0
d a corner lot, fronting on Main and Schuylkill flreets, di
ts m#nfions the fame as No. 16 and above described, sub- &
je<sfcto xofo per annum ground rent. On this lot is er- • -
11 e&pda large 2 llory dwelling house, 45 feet front on Main J a
es flreet. by 34 feet in depth on Schuylkill street, pleasantly
4 asdadvantagcoufly situated for a store. *
1- N. B. The above described three town lots will be fold
separately or together, as may best fuic the purchasers.
Conditions of sale—One third of the purchase money abc
to be paid to the subscribers, or either of them in Philadel- jng
3. phia, at or before the expiration of one month from the are
day of sale, when a deed of conveyance will be executed ; teri
the residue payable in 2 equal payments, at 6 and 12 months (
with intere(l,the payment whereof to be secured by mort
gage 011 the premises. \
n James Henderfon y Aflignees to
Y Frederick Moritmollin, I the estate of ■» -.
LC Thomas Rogers, J James & Win. \j
Joseph D. Drinker, J Kinn«ar. twl
e September' 26. m & th. a C
f- ..ill. — ' ton
'j To be Sold,
At No. 128, North Second-Street, and by several of
y the Apothecaries in this City.
>t nnR ANSFERS of the right to remove pains and inflamma
-I tions from the human b»dy, asfecured to Dr. ELISHA
h PERKINS, by patent, with instruments aud directions ne
ceflary for the practice. This mode of treatment is particu
s larly ufeful in relieving paint in the head, face, teeth, breast,
A fide, stomach, back, rheumatisms, recent gouts, &c. &Q.
N«twithftanding the utility of this practice, it is not pre
sumed but there are cases in which this aud every other
>e remedy may fometimcs fail.
? June J, Jaw
is ■
ld City cf Wafliirtgton.
,d
er SCHEME '.of-the LOTTERY, No. 11,
ld FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE- th<
FEDERAL CITY. de]
" A magnificent > 20,000 dollars, &} no
j|~ dwelling-house, 3 cash 30,000, ire J '
I ditto 15,000 & cafl» I5,oo& 40,000 <* r;
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,00 a 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
1 ditto s> 000 & cash 5,000 ro,ooa
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
3r x cash prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
'* 10 do. 1,000 - • 10,000
to do. 500 - - 10,000
le 00 do. 100 - - 10,000
100 do. 50 10,000
400 do. »s - 10,000
ld 1,000 do. ao - 2»,ooo
15,00© do. xo - - 150,000
1rt,739 Prizes. thi
a- 33*»6i Blanks.
of ' hl
i\. 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollari, 400,000 .
of —
ne N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
:ar Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn 1 0
at tkket, and, the 30,000 the last but oni :
ri- And approved notes, fecuriilg payment in either money
aft or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received foi
in- any number not less than 30 tickets. c
le- This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri-
LD- vate buildings to be efe&cd in the City of Washington.—
Two beautiful" deitgn's are already ftlcded for the entire *
of fronts on two fef tht public- squares; irom these prawings tu
lh- it ispropoftd tpsru-fiV two centre and four corner buildings,
Je- as soon as lottery is fold, and to convey
ihc them, when complete', to the fortunate advehturnrs, in —
,lic the manner dcfcriKcriJ in"tHe ; fcherr.e for the Hotel Lottery,
rm A nettdedhftion cent, will be made to defray
be the neceifary expinfes of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National /
bat Univerlity, to be eredgd within the city of Wafhmgton. V,
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are 7
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days n(
& t . after it is finifhad ; and any prizes for which fortunate 4:
%re numbers ate not produced within twelve months after tlx' la
the drawing is closed, arc to be considered as given towards oi
t h ff the fun 4 for the University ;it being determined to fettle 01
ns the whole business in a year frorii the ending of the draw- 0 I
m .' ing, and to take up the bonds given as security. ai
-of The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Direflors of the Bank c
a !l of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a- u
a n d mount of the lottery. o
fit/. The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of v
the late Comn-.iflioners affiftcd in the management of the
tit Hotel Lottery are requeued to undertake this arduous talk e
a second time on behalf ef the public ; a fufficient num v
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the c
friends to a National University and the other federal ob- 1
• joSs may continue to favor the delign. Id
By accounts received from the diflerent parts of the
olt Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are a (lured that the
a x . drawing will speedily commtme, and that the carc and ■
caation unavoidably necessary to infijre a fafe disposal of
ten- tlw tickets, has rendered the fliorr suspension indispensable. •
ions SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Weft &Co. Baltimore; of Peter Oilman, Boston :
t. of John Hspkihs, Richmond j and of Richard W«lls,
J. Cocker's Ferry. «e
University of Pennsylvania,
08ober 5, 1796.
The Medical Ledures will commence the firft Monday
in November. taw3w
By s Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Second-Jlreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of
the Legifiature of Pennfylvaaia, passed during the la'k
fefiion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the Coutity nf
Berks - Dollars,
x Prize of 20,000 Dollar's - so,ooo
t do. of to,ooo do. - - to,ooo
3 do. of 5,000 do. - - . 15,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. - . 8,000
1 20 do. of s,ooo do. . 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. - .
80 do. of 200 do. ... 16,000
»oo do. of too do. ... s o 000
300 do. of 40 do. - 15,000
1 do. of 500 do. to be paid the posses- )
for of the firft drawn no. £
5 do. of 3,0e0 do. to be paid pofleffors >
.of the five last drawn noa J 's'?°®
9,400 do* of 15 do. : . 141,00 a
10,054 Prizes 300,t00
10,046 Blanks - -
t 30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
AH Prizes shall be paid fifteen days after the drawing ij
finilhed, upon ihe demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
' ticket, fubjeft to a dedu&ion of twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are difpolVd
> of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notity will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Witman,
' Jofepb Hiejler, James Diemer, Thomas Bun das,
, James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graef,
Selajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May ihe 9th, 1796.
Tickets in the Canal L«t or», frad ar the
' above office, where the earliest information of the draw- 4
ing of the Walhingron No. 2, and Patterfon Lottery'*,
are received, and check books for examination and regif
; tering are kept.
> O&ober 7. aaw tf
Washington Canal Lottery,
• nO. r.
"ITTHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, from th Poi
■ tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz-.1 Prize of io.oqo dollar a, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 lad drawn >
Tickets, each f s '°°° 35P00
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4<ooo r
ao ditto 100 2 ,000
5.5 ditto so.
5750 ditto i» 69,00s
1 Tobe raised sos th(fC&ni4i * a6,»jo
5850 Prizes, Iftpoo
- 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.,
17500 TicKctw,- at Ten DoM*r», - - -175,000
The ComrfiiiKoners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a<ft for the wm<ftual payment- of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, withomt.
delay, as soon as th* Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
drawing is finilhed, (hall be considered as relinquifliej 1 for
the benefit of the Canal, ajid appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER, <
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Feb. 11. $
Lottery and Broker's Office,
A r o. 64, South Second street.
r I MCKJGTS in the Canal Lottery, No. a, for sale—a
A Check Book for examination—and prizes paid ia
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Washington, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both 6f which are now drawing—-information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete KlFoFltl »Wp«wii.
n Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
y The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
>x and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock*
Certificates , Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
' lm &c. or to obtain money on depoiit of property.
%* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
, e sale at Ten Dolltrs each, which will be drawn early in
£ 8 the Spring.
s, Wm. Blackburn.
■Y Philadelphia, Avrufl *8, 1796. mth
in *" ——" r——— ———
y. F 0 R S A L is,
Z A very Valuable Estate,
al /CALLED T IVI TT£N HA M, situate in ths
VJ townlhip of Upper Derby, andcountyof
re 1 1-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
T s new Wefternroad: containing 230 acres of excellentland,
tc 45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
he land, and the reft arable of tlw firft quality. There, are
ds on thepremifesagood two story brick koufe, with 4 rooms
le on a floor, sr.d cellars under the whole, with a putnp-well
of excellent vater in front; a large frame bain, ft aides,
and other convenient buildings; a smoke-house and stone,
fpring-houfq; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
lk es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
a- under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly cpn
of venient for grazing.
he The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
'Ac cultivation ef the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
m vicinity to the city, it is vary suitable for a gentleman's
:he country feat.
)b- The foregoing is part of the eflate of Jacob Harman»
deceafedj and offered for sale by
the Mordecai Lewis,
j"' Oft. 9. tt&l" Surviving Executor.
ind ~
of ' —
,Ie - PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
of 119 —
an :
,JJ s | CHESNHT-STREBT.
[Prioc Eight DtiJJ.H per Aan am.]