~ » -»•* • ' jr i -M;v '
> ■ . ....... • r '
% ' ' . • / x 1 -t - , •••!__.. X f
of the 6* Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
jL MONDAT EVENING, AUGUST i, J796. ffciio** X.
; NVMBE* 12*5-] — . r— : :
fr? " 7aX. f f c I DTTTY ON C.VRUTAGFS. . «l- 1 c-n
J J
For HAMBURGH,
, - *tbe iii*
■j/Jkr JOHN,
Rohdiu jACfsoM, Matter,
t ° &ii * r - day5 ' - —
SS&SiixfesS HAVING two-thirds of her. cargo en
, readv t0 „„ on boird. freight or passage
fplyto on
« -'•fVri'rtwi-' "*• •"V ~j
•* - --t- §"6eotf Met
f..W it. —— — 2 -*• he \
For Barbados,
The Brigantine s
F A in E, s r
|@kSS3S. Francis Knox, f/frafter, jj
W y T TAS e oA(J jccr.mr.wd it ion. for pas- L
li "fehgers, ai4d"l« eipefted to rail on 0
hurWay next For freight of a or passage, o
•*s">TiT' " j
i
THE B*IS
Einjavix GtASiER, Mnjler, I*h
T7ROM Liverpool. Now discharging at P. Care's Wharf, £
V and will immediately iSkelWirds {ake in Freight for a
NEWBURY-PORT AND BOSTON.
T O /Ijl in'*ll'n?xt vfreJk. For freight or passage, apply to
, apt. Glafier, onboard, or to _ Sold
Isaac Harwv »»"• Tav
Mot
•<ig.
.. j&S
■a*— - - ' ~
v *5.
, Alt, tact-failing vessel, handfornely hnifhcd off, and well
|fid ineveiy particular. For ter-sapp^^^
■On boSrd fold fchbo'ner, lying at Bickley and Bohlen's Th(
7 harf, the firft above Market-street.
WHS IE THERE ARK FOR (T . _ '
A few half-Ibis. Prime Mess Beef.
July 2-4 . ■ ... "
For Sale,
Or far Charter ibthe Wetl-Miis,
—.... THE SHif
iifi cER As »
Philadelphia Built,
VfUvc Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 350° bar-
J rels, now difchargicg at Latimer s wharf I his vef
-lis in excellent repair, welffouud-and will bear a tho- _
>ugh examination, andasfoon as diftharged wHI be rea
\■ to take in a carjjo. For terms apply to .
John Vaughan.
jj'.ily i* •• - fr
For Sale or Charter,^
boston,
MJRTHEN about aooo Bbls. of flour—Hje. may be sent
•.ileaat a small exr -ice, her fails and rigging being in de
i cry good ord^r—ipply to
James Campbell, or ~i
Geerge Latimer.
April 19, §
TJus Day commenced Landing, >~
t K'ifflins wharf, tha cargo of the Brig Lnxy and Sloop
St. Jaga, from St. JagodeCuba—confiding of tli
White and Brown Box SUGAR. ' e
MOLASSES, of an excellent quality. tn
COFFEE. ' Q 1
HIDES and iIOIJEY. AITo, in
For Sale or Charter. g
The brig I. UC " , ti.
jMMj3S|k A stout, ftrorg vcfftl, will carry a- te
_l\_ bout xioc barrel-, and may go to ye
fca with a very small expense.
' rHt above w ;be fold f<jr calh or approved notes. >
No. 64, fouthSecond-llreet. "J
jiily 1), dtf "- - 0
just Arrived, n
the rtJpfloHV, John F/bB, Matter, from Liverpool, f,
)ao Bulhels Bdft ftoved SALT,
, ButbcU HOI: il". CO L, x
d ,18 Crates ot QIJiENS WARE., affomd lt
FOR SALE BY
vl philip Nicklin & Co.
K. B. THE S" ID
Ship MOLLY,
TS for S ALE or CHARTER, (he il 5
j 1 years old, Philadelphia built, of white
w»weli failed and carries about 4200 barrels of Flour,
f terms apply as above. , .
"'y* 3 ]
Landing
m on board the Nancy, William Belcher, maf
:r, from Bourdeaux, a cargo, confiding of— (
360 Hhds. CHOICE CLAHET,
2~\z Cases of 24 bottles each CLA RE 1,
286 do. of 2s. do. WHIT E INE,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and
1 TK.UKK of RIBBONS,
For Sa'e by
Coppinger.
| jly c^t^'
Take Notice,
lAT the Subscriber intends to mane applica
tion for the renewal of a Certificate, No* 1609,
X3O dollari, dated the 14th December, 1795, bearing
•ft at 5 * per cent, frotn rft Jsnuiry', 1796, in the
01 DavidDunderdale & Co, of Le ds, in Yerk
■ merchant!. ■ l'he fame isfuppofed to have been loit
, ; way to N:w York, under cover to Bkefker &
1, of that -ilacc, on the 6th of January last-
Thomas M'Euen.
1! -. ladelphia, lid June, 179£. § w
CABLES,
From 16 to 9 £ inches, for sale by
yeremiah Ward(i\ Th
Julyl* 5 No 11 norththiiu-lVeet.
— *nce o
Wm. HOLDERNESSIi, sS;
Nil. 76 Street, kept'
HAS reccir'd, bytht latest arrivals from Europe and !*" '
the £ait l«<lis>* 4_wdLfislsftcd iiffnrtmrnt. «rf SrHr
Merciiry,Linen Drapery and Haberdaihery Goqdi; which or "
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms;
,amongjt which are,
Spme Ane India muflms em'oroidered with gold and (Hver I
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aad Mulmul ditto
T) 0 do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black tafletiesjuuftringsand colored Peifians
Bandano Handkerchief.
Lpr.g and ihort Nankeens
EngiiPi Mantuas of the firft quality ,
Damatk table linen and napkins, very fine
Sijk Hosiery, an elegant aiTortm«nt
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green filki oil'd'do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irifn Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
THE SALE OF T*
The TOWN, and OUT LOTS of the TOWNS
of ERIE, WATERFORD, FRANKLIN Th ,
and WARREN. Diftr.
ADVERTISED for f3leby the State Agents, in the P+iila- of Sef
deiphia Gazette and, Uriiveifal Daily Advcrtifer, to be Carri.
in the City of Pniladelphia ; will commence at the City Ph
Tavern or CefFee-Houfe in Second-itreet, in the said city, on Ccuni
Monday the 25th day of July inft. at 7 o'clock in the. ts- =
irtg, and be continued by adjournment from day today, -. -
12 o'clock at opon, until iwo o'clock, and from 7 ttnui
9Vlock iu the {if rb<r said " ,
made known, and the f»ans of the (aid LOTS and f »
LOIS be thewn at the time and place of sale.
Bv order of William Irvine, Andrew Ellic tt and GeK -e
. Ascnt.. EDWARD FOX, Auflic?
July a 2.
Sales of India Goods. luch
5 The Cargo of the ship Oaiiges, capt. Tiiigey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal, Ol
CONSISTING OF - hl "
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins, ln cl
Doreas, Vc. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Su^ar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER., A
For Sale by
Willings Francis, Ou
No. II Penn Street,
f- June S S
Public Notice is given,
the nerckants and others concerned in the fnippirtj
atState-ICand, under quarantine, that a Can will
attend every mo. nir.g, Fridays excepted, from to
m ••«Udc, At No. 3?. Walnjl-ftrest, to 1 V
! convey provilions or other Refreihments to *.e Flofpital,
i and for the use of the crews. Q
j It is exped'ted thatVghe Bags, Baf :ets, or other packag
es with supplies, willbcdirciled with th« of the vef- th<
fel and captain they are intended for, to prevent mifta'kes
at delivery. t P
lt By order of the Board of Heahh for th - port of Phila
in delphla, LEVI HOLLINGSVVORI'H, Chairman.
July 13 5
Philadelphia, Weft-Che tier, Strajl>urgh,
LancaHer, York and Frederick-toivn Uc,
STAGES.
THE, proprietors of the above Stages, return their best c
thanks to their friends and the public in general, for
tlie encouragement received in this line of business, and beg
leave to inform the public, that they arc determined to run
their stages through from Philadelphia to Lanca&er.in |
one day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July inllant, r
in the following manner, —viz. A Stage will set out on '
that day at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the house of e
George Weed, Market-street, Philadelphia, and run by ar >
the way of Weftcnefter and Strafburgh, arrive in Lancal- •
a- teethe fame evening, on Fridayjnorning run to Wright's Ho
to ferry and exchange paflen£ers with the York and Fredej
ick-town flage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat
urday, and on Monday morning following, at 4 o'clock,
—— r. .g r .Mill f.r ..... tlir Phila
delphia, and arrive at Lancafler the fame evening, or «
Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack wi(l set out from the houf
qf Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelplfc ! f;
the fame evening, and will commence again on Thurfda
itiorning following, and continue every week—The phc
I, for each pajfenger from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three
F dollars and a half, to.York, four dollars and three qsar
' ters, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like sums for —
Ijo weight baggage, with the tifual allowance if 14 lb.
gratis to each passenger, and 5 pence a mile for all way .
paflengcrs. 30 —§4W -■
John Reilly, v
George Weed.
j£ TO LET, 1 ®
>ur - A Large Cellar,
Under the Meeting-House in Walnut-street
Enqtiire at No. J» Second-llreet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet.
July 30 3t
The ELEPHANT. "
THIS surprising animal is arrived in this city on his way
to Charleston. He is to be {eetl in High-street be
tween Tenth and Eleventh streets, from fix o'clock in the
morning to Sunset.
Admittance —Half a Dollar—Children, a quarter of a
Dollar. July 30 §6eotf
A well-finifhed, commodious
tf HOUSE
Eor Sale, and immediate possession given,
SITUATE on the north fide of Spruce-street, No. m,
Fourth and Fifth streets. The hcufe, piazza
609, buildings are three flories in height, andperfe&i ""
ring ly well for the accoinmodation of a large family,
t^e as they contatK*welvc good rooms, exclusive of two del- i
erk- ed garrets. In th~ yard, which Is neatly paved, there are t
1 loft two pumps ; one in n cistern, the other of as 1
;r water as any in the ciry : cellars are dry,and large.
The terms of payment will be « ? fy ; a great part of the
purchase-money in all probability lay for years on in
-1 tereit. Apply at Nd. 109, next d-sor - r d.
• v J ul 7 3° -
k 1
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given, i
rH att of Congrei* ot the Uoited
States of America, puffed at Philadelphia, ike iSut da>
of May, ijq6 i laying duties oir Carriage*, for the convey
ance of pcMoas, and repealing xhe foimer fer that pur
pose.—Th :• be levied, collected aad oaid, up'»o
iLi 'ar' f<#r the conveyance of perfotU, which (hall be
kept \>y <>: lor any pcrfoo, for hii or her-own ulc, ,01 to r—
run r K-.r, >r (or the conveying of paffeagcri, the fevcral du
- 10 *«a i.ur'i wm '
For and every Coacli, 15 dols. ' A *
up£>n eve 1 y Chariot, 12 do!s. *- *• 11
up<knevery Baft Chariot, 12 dols;
uv-ou every Potl Chatfe, 12 dols. ?ow dc
upon every Phaeton, with or without top, gdo!s Pofie
upon every Coachee, 9 dols. Fc
upon other. Carriages, having panne 1 above,
» with blinds r glalfes or curtains, 9 dols. April
u>>"»ji four wheel carriages, having framed posts and
tapj with fttel springs, 6 dols.-
upon four wheel top' Carriages, with wooden or iron
springs or jacks. 3 dols. ° J n t }
upot curricles with tops, 3 dols. t j,
upon chaises with tops, 3 dols. p
upol chairs with tops, 3 dols. \
upou futkics with tops, 3 dels.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.| A.IK
upon two wheel with steel or iron springs,
3 dols.
For and npen all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols.
j upon every four wheel carriage, having framed posts
atd tops, and reitiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
The Coll**£tors of "the Revenue of the wrft s urvey of the All
Diftri&of Poinfylvania, wiil attend daily, untilthe 33th day
of September next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on
t Carriages, at yo. 117,10 Race or Saflairai llreet, in the City J u ':
y of Philadelphu, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Efq in the
a Ccunty o: ; ar.s k lie house of Abraham Du
os which all peifonspof ff
L^k.enjtiee.
r ~W .#as§BenßßnrtptT-'• -$t n6
i,J .ci to them ; li river
ailing of Wiuei, in a frame
g.lloos—aud one .j"
, ictailing Spirituous li- .
o at the fame time and
at. .uc placet, by the officers legally authorized to grant w :,
[uch Lceices. f r
WIILI AM "NICHOLS, ™ r^'l
Infpefiir of Ihe Revenue ot the fiift survey Jf" 1
1- of the diilrift of Pcnnfjlvania.,
Office »f Infptflion, at > con\ei
Philadelphia, aifl July, 1796 S
as — " '
Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, Kirkpatiick, master from Li
' verpool, TT 01
500 c Bttfl'.ela SALT ; - 1 - f
lr.o Crates QUEENS WARE ; and centl.
An AfTortuieut ol SHIP CHANDLERY;
FOR SALE
Ou bdard, at Pine-street wharf. Apply .to
James Campbell, or 20
Georze Latimer. 99
April 19.
I c - notice.
to TVr^vll! —
il, vhc Me-chants'coiTce house,. m Second Itreet, « —
Or.e thouiand ihares. of the stock of 6 3|°
ff- the Nort.i America Land Company, mgu
e» i not prrviouljy disposed of. V "",
Pkiladelpbii, 20th July. dts
:i " , 4 In th<
.T/KE NOTICE, mt^
, npHA7 applcation wiU be made far the renewal of c-onti
' 1 the followiig certilicates, i(Tue<J,by Jofeph ; Nourfe, may
Kegifler of the'l'reafury, in thr name of Roger Gril fopth
woid, Esq. of Norwich, Conneilicut— et» m
I certificate, ix per cent domestic stock, ISO. 13,907 C*
—dated the 1 ?tlDecember, 1795, bearing mtereft from
the firft day of January, J79-1, for 1,597 6j-ioo dol
'eg I ditto, thre'per cent, domestic ftoi k, No. 10,68 a
-—4at,ed Uecemier 16, 179S> bearing interest from the J1
n *f firft day of Janiat;y, 179»> for 994 JO-joo dollars.
on 1 ditto, defeued stock, No. 9,l66—dated the 17th
of December, 179;, bearing imereft from the firft Janu
by ary, 1801, for -,9s 83-100 dollars.
;af. Said certificates are supposed td have been loft or |~J_
lit'e Ho:en in this cit\fome time in December or January I w i lc
lej- "|am
iatr DMAS, The'
orth Front-street. I (j on ,
ils— d6w. The
ov • _ RY
,us ,J- . . iED OF, by
ilii ,iy NEGRO MAN, who J fc
da J . serve. He is acquainted j J
. . i'-'-'c- "r 1 I
iree Esquire at th'. Office.
lar- July 29 3 I \
sot — .—; — j
kvay . A colledion of Papers, hn
N the fubje4.ef bilious Fevers, prevalent in thsUni- j »
• J ted States t>i;.a fpw tw "'
Cqmpitd by NOAH WEBSTER, 1 (
Is this day cone to hand, price One Dollar. Sold by I ton
- - W. TOUNO, MILLS & SON,
Tiooklellers and Stationers, No. 52 Second-street, the cor- j
uerof Chefnut-ftreet. I
July 29 3t_ j
YoR SALE,
3t WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, I
in pipes and hogtbeads
Claret, genuine old, cases I v
way Gih, ii pipes, fiom Holland
: he- Earthen Ware, in crates
1 the Baikct Salt, in hoglheads
Shot, N.os. 6, 7, 1 J i»d 9
of a Bar Lead, Red aad white dty lead
Jtf Stcef, Gerrnar and Kufiia, in barrels
An.-hor', cibles, juiit, bunting, tarpolin canvas, I
)QS Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by t q 1
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. jtl
Joly«9 $ I
■jen, , ——— 1 ■ d
nzza Twenty Dollars Reward.
tfe<£U "11TAS STOLEN, lift evening, from the pafltire of the I
•mily, W fubferiber, a black-Rockingham GELDING, 15 I 1
aciel- 1.. hinds high, has a star, and fotne white under his J
re are throat, (the part being formerly chafed); has a leathcrjor.
goo j his neck, the mine on the nesr fide, his foot-locks fretted
large, with ji'clog, sod i«a harfe cf viuch bone and size. Who
af the him with the thief, Ihall have the above re
on in- or for the Horse alone a very generous compeafa
jion JVHN LAWRENCE.
. July 7 cc^w
, — ■ —. ■ ■■ 11 I ....
To be Let,
A large convenient: hre» llory TriA-Houf;, pleafEnt-y '
fituatod, on the weft fide of Second-otreet, ofpclilc to t!ic
jSew-JVfcu&ci;- now in the occupation of Retry Clyaur
Apply Lo
WiP.icr.i Bingham.
J ■'' y ~7 ■
—, , — — ■»■
A THrce ftnry BRICK HOUSE ;md Lor, in Chefrct
il ffMet, between frphtanct Sccor.d iWw, in which
MefiK James C':iJbri:;h & Co. have for manj years (and
pow Jo) carrwd -on bftfineis. '
Poffeflion Mill b« given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apj«ly to WILLIAM HELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITIi.
April ii. *
Jult Arrived
In the brig Betsey, from Jeremic, and for sale by
the fubCL'ri'rters.
Forty thousand wt. of very prime Coffee
in hogsheads and bags *
And, in the schooner Hope, from New Orleans.
BEEF
COTTON
HIDES and
LOGWOOD.
A liberal credit will be given for Approved Notes.
Richard and James Potter.
July »7- dtf
A Country Seat to be fold.
BOUT £even acres and
extending wiph&geaHe clec'iv'fiy froircthe f*id road -o ;Ue
river Schuylkill—on which arc ere<9.cd, a convenient
frame house furtable for a tenant, a frame barn and Itable,
a large Brick House forty-eight feet front, two (lories
J hiyh, a fery elegant piazza fronting the river, the whole
. breadth of the house lupported with turned pillars, floor
ed with cedar commanding an extensive and pic
turesque view of the Middle Bridge* Gray's Gardens, the
, Seat of Wm. Hamilton, Eftj. the Turnpike Road and
Canal. The improvements are all new—and the ground
convenientJy divided and inclosed by new cedar fences.
For terms apply at No. 151 Market-ftrect.
July 27 *7t
Lottery
FOR rr.'.firtg fixthoufand fii hundred and fixty-fevea
dollars ami fifty cent-s, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from .the pr:z;s, and not two blinks to a prize, viz.
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars jooo
I ICC2 1000
i 500 <0o
. 5 lit loco
3,0 190 2000
99 jo 4950
200 25 JT-ooa
2000 ro 20,000
5 Lafi drawn cumbers of icoe dollars each, s°oo
433% Prqg». • ---
f 63 JO Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44.4'J0
By oeder of the- Directers of the Society for eftabliih
. ing Ufcful Manu failures, the fupe-rintendatits of the Pat
w;vC Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Ssheaie to the public, and have dire&ed them
to Refund the money to thofc persons who have purthalid
In the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
rhe lottery hasa&uslly commenced drawing, and will
)f continue uatil fin-ilked. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
if fopth Second flreet, who will give information where tick
ets may I>e procured.
>7 Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
m y. n cumm me, 7
J. JACOB K. HARDENBERG, \ Managers,
la JONATHAN RHEA, )
ic June 18 eo
!h Jsjheton and Jamej Humphreys
u " CONVEYANCERS,
HAVE removed their office to No. 61, Walnut-street,
next door but two to the corncr of Dack-li sect,
■y where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are dreivn at
a moderate charge, with care, accuracy and dispatch.—
They likewise buy and fell Real Estates upon commit-
Cons, and procure Money upon Loan on good security.—
The bufinels of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NO :'A
— RY PUBLIC is also trail faded at the said office usual
fey , ASSHETON HUMPHREYS,
ho N. B. Good Notes discounted.
ted July 5. eo6w
Waftungton Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the piypofe of cutting
a Canal through the City of Waihington, from the Po j '
tomac to the Eastern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
_ or _ Viz -I Prize of 20,000 dollars, 20,000
X ditto 10,000 10,000
6 dkto l,oo« 6,000
v . 10 ditto 400 4,000
old ; 20 ditto 100 a,ooo
55 ditto JO ®i7J°
, J 7jo ditto 12 69,008
To he railed for the Canal, • 26,aj0
5850 Prizes, 175*500
11650 Blanks, r.ot two to a prize."
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
ivas, t? The Commissioners have osken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a<fl for the pundual payment of
D. the prizes.
4 The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
„ delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timel
, notice will be given.
]. Suchptizes as are not demanded in fix months afte' th^
,f t - rr . drawing is finiihed, Oia.ll be considered as relinquithed for
, 6 the benefit of Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
*• U. (Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG, \
" DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
who - GEORGE WALKER,
, e rc . Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
penfa- ' THOMAS LAW,
CE. JAMES BARRY.
X4W Ckv of Washington, Feb. 11. $~ an*. ■* *i *■* *■"* -»—" j
i rom the Richmond and Manchejlcr Advertiser. '
Friend PLEASANTS.
Except a notice which I on«c wrote of a meet*
£:of Friends to be held in Richmond, I do not
irSolleft that ever 1 offered a single sentence of any
kind «r nature, for the public print*. Thou mutt (
not therefore expect a welldrefs'd performance from
a plain unambitious man, like thy present corref- j
pondent. Nor can I promise thee friend Pleafants, (
ihat the remarks now offered to thee, will prove
any ways inftruetive. Yet, it being strongly im
prefffd upon my mind that I ought to fay famething (
refpedting a performance which has occasioned some ,
feriwus and deep reflations, it becomes my *boun
fkn <!o»f to do so.
I had barely laid down thy paper which a neigh
bor lent me, and I now write without it, containing
a piece under the signature of an agriculturist,
before forae of the sayings of the wicked forced
themselves upon my recolledtion, viz. " "1 he grcat
" eft rogue often cries rogue firft," the greatest
<< w c "generally throws the firft ltone." For tho' i
lam no politician, nor have ever concerned myfelf 1
with any of the great questions which seem to have |
agitated very many of my neighbours, yet having a
rood deal to do with the busy world, I have been j
under the necessity of hearing many conventions,
* and many disputes on the political questions of the ;
present day. And so far f-om ever difcovcrmg in
. those who are called the friends of government—and
the admirets of George Washington, any thing of a
oetfecuting, uncharitable,, or triumphant dtlpoli
tiori—thev have realty appeared to me, to be men
of very different cads. And as to their being ac
five in supporting their caufc, I am aftomined that
any fobcr man like unto the agriculturist
Should assert it ; that is, if the people within his
acquaintance, are any thing like unto thpfe.m and
about this city. The difference between theraft.-
vitY of the two paities hereabouts, is surely, frie.io
t j ie circumstances attending tn"meeting in
this city in April last. But 1 do not fay which
party was in the right. 1 only mean to express
what lay elk upon my mind: viz. that the agri
culturist does not appear to be very accurate, or
very candid. There is another thing which he
ftateth, that doth not appear to me, to be quite just,
and I am sure, his conclusions, are neither gener
ous, nor charitable. He fays, the wri.er of a cer
tain letter passed thro' Alexandria, Dumfries and
Frcderickjburg to Richmond. This to be sure is
true enough ; but will any man believe that three
of the inhabitants of all those towns, are fo
reigners ? But admit affcrtion to be aji undern
ame fa&, what fort of charity mull that man pos
sess, who can insinuate, that all foreigners are ene
mies to a republican government, even admitting
that those of our own country, who are friendly to
the government of the United States, and who are
partial to the abilities and intentions of George
Washington, can with truth and propriety be so
(iigmaiized. In all the towns aforefaid, feefiiles
the vile English and Scotch, there are Irirtimeo,
and I have always understood, that Irilhmen, were
confwlered as found patriots, wheresoever, they
might fojburn, and that whetnoever a c-errimonon
was about to take place, they weiefuretobe found
on the noisy, and popular fide of the quetlion.
There are Frenchmen too ; and Ido not presume
that any man will cou.it the people of that nation
among the Aristocrats, or the' enemies to republi
canism. And as to the Dutchmen, Spaniards,
Jews and Italians, I can hardly suppose, that they
will be thrown into the fca'.e of Antloaracy. At ieart
friend Pleafants, it would be as hard for me to
believe all tfcefe strange things, as it would be to
reconcile such coqjradidtions as that of making the
" flefli and the spirit unite ; ortojoin an unfandtifi
ed brother of the wicked to a fandtified lifter of the
> Godly ones." Nor will I believe, that the agri
culturist intended to fay so. But yet, if he does
not ; pray what did he intend? For it is impofiible
To beiieve, that he meant to fry, that three fifths of
the inhabitant of those tr>wns were English and
Scotch, men so notoriously attached to the Britifb
government, that tfrey would throw the country to
which they are now bound by the ftrongut of all
ties, into anarchy and confufion rather than not have
a chance of bringing us once more, under that go
vernment. Now this fcemeth tome, to be a doc
trine as strange and unaccruntable, as it appear
eth to be unreasonable, and uncharitable. But ne
vertheless it may be so—nothing being impofiible
with the Creator of all things.
The agriculturist next fays-i-that he doth
not believe friend Henry, ever used such a wlticifm
as a " Sol-lail'dpolitician." Is the agriculturist
Jo apt to tell untruths himfelf, that he can so readi
ly use the langu?ge of gross contrarii&ion towaids
another? For my part, tho' I heard friend Henry
deliver molt of the fentimcnts in that letter, 1 did
not hear him call any person hy such names, yet 1
verily believe thai he did ; a certain peifon,
S3 he returned from Cougsefs thro' Richmond,
wa: told that he bad been so 'nick-named—not spe
cially perhaps, but with the delegation generally,
Nuiwithftanding, I am one of those who think that
the letter-writer, was guilty of great imptudence
and indifcretioa, for mentioning, and in such a .var,
the name of any perion, to whom such an appella
tion had been given, but in mentioning the name of
friend Henry, as coming forward denying things
which had been laid of him, I do not thir.k it was
wrong, or improper : became, when fpeakinsr i n
tr.y presence, hefeerr.edto fed as if he though': he
hid been extremely ill treared, in havi. g been re
presented as the Author, or Patron, of principles
and fei-.timtnts which he disproved and despised.
These things seemed to have lain long upon his
mind, and it appeared to me that he took this pub
lic opportunity to dilburthen himfelf. But the
Agriculturist would insinuate that this old ex
perienced Siatefmcn, and well tried Republican
i. hefidrr having become a grumbling char>»
• • mowing i jealcifsr f friend Giles—Jealous of
{. ' f Glefc! PATRICK. HENRY! graving
jealous of Billy Gila) ! ! weH'• that is fayfrg a
jrrcat ikat .o be sure : at lead it is proving a won J
jjruus extent of imagination and concept ran. sßut
iVeling a fomcthiaa riling in my muici, which might
tempt me to fay unbecoming things, I wii! drop
the well, OBEDIAH PRIM.
Richmond, 19th 7th Month, 179^-
From the [New-Tort] Minerva.
Much has been said about the present principal
offi.ers of government, being " fuceeffirs in form to
their preJeceffors." A miserable, clumsy, but ma
licious writer, signing himfelf Paulding, has affei-
ted, that the PrcfiJciit hiinfelf has pronounced ]
them such. ,
Of the men now in office nothing ihall be lani,
except that those who charge them with want ot
talents, piove they are not acquainted with them
and for integrity, indullry, candor and republican
principles, they never had and never will", have their
superiors in office or any where else.
The enemies of the present administration are al
ways attempting comparisons between the present
and the fir ft Secretary of State, with a view to fc
exalt Mr. Jefferfon. In this they are more indus- t
trious tlten fuccefsful. Mr. Jefferfon's true cha-
| rafter is well known, and he has all the praise he
deserves, among his acquaintance, and rnoie than
:he deserves less informed. His reputa-,
j tion as a' man of science is rcfpe&able ; but he is
; found deficient in accuracy and close realoning. v
He, has, at the fame rime, the reputation of c
! matiy things not his oivu. His famous report on j
j weights and mcafures was founded on ideas taken
from a volume of the society of arts and agricul
ture, published in England many yea>-i ago, and
now ia poflefiios of the writer. The idea of ma
king the vibrations of the Pendr,!utn the basis of
weights and measures, was borrowed from that -
book, and the flnxional calculations in that repoit
are the work of a profeffor in our college, and pro
- . . ,y r% * a 1 - T . £T_.. C
cured at the special req" t J »
son. 3 \ !
The labored cor' j |
ftcr, Mr. Genet, and th >?gf
fa£t the letter* which h»v. W « t-.
moil Credit were o«lj '• • • ••..
cretary ; the material ji r-g '■ ... !.s>
in other cases, by all the heads of departnents, at
the requisition of the President.
In his. report on commerce, Mr. Jefferfon com- '
mitted some egregieus blunders, which tie mer
chants in Boston detedted and exposed at the time '
the report was published.
" Render unto Cefar, the things that are Ct- '
Car's," —and no more.
The celebrated author of the " preciouj confef
fions,-'ought to be the last man on earth to talk of
" successors in form," to men of talents. His dul
nefs was afuljift of derision throughout the Uni
ted States—there are a thousand common barrilters
in the United States who are better qualified, ei
ther for Attorney-General, or Secietaiy of State.
The enemies of our government would do well
not " to cast the fiift done."
(R.publi/hed hy rtgj/e/l.)
AUGUST A, July 7.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in Philadd-
ptafafta-tm fiieiid in ihii town, dated.'une f.
" Congress, after their long session, adjourned
last week ; and it is to be hoped the result of their
deliberations, so far as relates to the fritifh treaty,
will be attended with consequences that cannot
fail of eDfuring general tranquillity t» the United
States.—The visionary evils, with vhich this in
ftrament was said to abound, have tow given way
to the cool and temperate voice of leafbn and Re
flexion ; and nothing in my opinicn bears a moie
honorable teflimony of the Amercan character,
than the medium through which the treaty was
viewed by ihe two branches of [overnmcnt/ to
whose decision it was firft fubmtted.—By the
newspapers, which we occafionaty receive hete
from the southward, Georgia appe;rs to be an efta.
blifhed theatre of political anarchy—The author
' of the drama, aod indeed the priicipal adior, is
said to be formerly a rrember of Con- .
grefs from that (late.—That man a fpokeof here,
and in ever)' part where 1 have been, in the molt j
contemptible point >■ view- H» is Cjid io ii.-.ve j
made up last year, by jhr
corruption, an if
fervit nt to his t» y. '.h«f
was a kind of 1 ?J
entirely diftatci
fadtious leader—
faith, honor anti ui tin; iwr, uy rauiack
ing its archives, and either annullinr or destroying
every species of public record, by vbich the inte
rested wishes of his own party waild have been
in'the least affected.—But of all otler abuse?, the ' (
burning of the-records relative to tie sale of for h
lands made by a former Lcgiflatun:, is the molt ! ,
(hamcful and unprecedented—Befoie 1 go farther,
let me obferre to you, that this benfire of yours
has done mure injury to your state, .han all the de
vadation committed by the Britidi diring ihe late
war—the people have held out your public a£U, as
a mere mockery—a burlesque of legflative faith
they think no trufl is to be reposed inyour govern,
ment, -much less in your individual-—-your cha
racter, as well as your landed property, has fuf.
'fered a considerable diminution ; and jou must re
ally work miracles, to regain your former ftahdard, '
low as it bad been.—lf this multipircity of evils,
it to be attributed to one man, what punifhmeßt
does he not deserve from his fellow-citir.ens ? It
is also said, that he has placed in office, men total
ly unfit for their companion—that the gover. or is
an iJSterate simpleton, scarcely able to sign his name
—one of the l'oli ltors-general, a man who had,
beeu a subaltern in the federal troops, and the other i
ao irinerant preacher or i< hool ma/ter ([ forget
which) who used to be ft tolling about the country
—and all the reft of his appointments nearly of the
fame damp In short, to give you a detail oi all ,
the ehargia exhibited that political finncr,
place, would exhaust your patience ; I there- !
ti.re farther—But before i quit the
fut jed, 1 cannot help regretting that the of ( •
yr.m qnarr-is liiciild operate Hp»n us litre—you,
no d. .ibt, seen a i.orrefpoodence between a Sv- 1
nattir and a Keprefentative frcm Georgia puWuh<J
, In the paper* of this plscr, m M*r<:h Nil. JV
this it jtppcara a challenge was ■>/
to the latter, which, however, hart wot ber.._ *>r
cepted ; that the reprcfentative threw hin>fc
the mercy of the IWe, related the ctrcumlfcm*
in due form, and appealed to the members, whe
•her it was not an infringement of their privileges,
to have him thus interrupted in his legislative eapa
' c ity —By this timely and cautious proceeding, lie
' considered liimKlf secure for the time! But no
' sooner Congrefe adjourned, and feeing no farther
feilirity could be granted by that body, than he
went before Chief Justice M'Kean, and for lear ol
any after-claps, had the Senatoi bound over to the
peace—a prosecution is alio instituted, the trial o
which is to come on in Augultor September nexi. ,
, This Hep of Mr. Baldwn has been thought ia
thei liar Ih, even byforne of his awn intimates here,
becttife General Gunn wanted to ga to Georgia,
to fettle some private afTii-s, as we'll as to vnidr
cate his conduct in his public capacity, if it had
been required ; which he eannot now do, and be
back time enough for his trial. New, Sir, setting
this bofinefs on conditional grounds, I (houM be
glad to know, who has committed the greatest
Breach of legislative privilege, General Gnnn, in
rendering Mr. Baldwin unfit to deliver a fpecch a
gainjl the British treaty ; or Mr. Baldwin, in pre
venting General Gunn's returning to his (late, in
order to give his conlfituents an account of l'la po*
litical tratifadiions since his departure from them.
DOVER, (N. H.) July 19.
DIED, on the 13th day of July inft. at Portf
month, John Hale efq Attorney at Law, m 'he
34th year of his age.
Perhaps the grave seldom closes over a vidlini,
more highly recommended by the virtues that a
dorn the man, and the citizen (han the one now
it u .-With a latgeand comprehensive under
. "di!his heart was noble, generous and hu•
' s .... e. Educated in the law by an eminent prafti
. « nrpfeflional condudt was such as feeured j
-rlpeet ann eiretm even «r more, wnoic m- 1
, .. is duties of advocacy compelled him to op- ,
:. : in the Legislature of New Hanpp- [
shir* 4 or 1»T8 sagacity to discern, and his integrity
and firmnejs to pursue her best interest, he flood a \
candidate for her highest honors; and attached to j
the principles of Government, and the constitution j
of hm country he dlftinguifhed himfelf the guardian
and zealous defender of both. But, arretted in his ar
dent career, in the bloom of life, the cold hand of i
death has laid him prostrate, and entomhec with |
him the faireft expeditions of hisfellow citizens—|
r The hope of aged parents travelling down the vale 1
of life is gone—their flay and their ftaff is taken a- I
way—The fond, the generous, the affedtionate bro- ;
s ther is departed—The delight and ornament of the !
bar, the cheerful and agreeable companion, the
the faithful and difinteretled friend has left us, and
j the places which knew him fhallknow him no more. ;
The heroic fortitude and almost unpareleled firm
nefs difcovercd in his last moments, while flrug- j
gling with acute disease—the lleadv tranquil eye
with which he met the king of terrors, tli calm re-
Agnation to his fate, transmit him to puflerity in
" th&amiable light of a real philofcpher.
O ! »li.,' imports it, to add a day,
1 A little day, to the short transient life
r Of one poor mortal ? by th' eternal powers
, In their exalted sphere our days are number'd
t Let us, without retreat, or dread, pursue
j Where leads their firong, unerring deftio^.
The ways of hcar'n are dark and intricate
Our understanding, puzzled in mazes,
Traces them ir« Vain.
: [Translated for the Gazette of the United
' States.] «
From Hamburgh papers.
\ WARSAW, May 4.
1 Authentic intelligence is received here, that the
- Ruffian troops under command of General Valeri
an Subost continue their military operations with
r the best success, againfl the Perfianrobberg. They
' have already taken the impcitant commercial town
and fortrefs Derbent, lituated in the Northern part
' of the Perfiau Province Sirwan, on tine Caspian fca.
1 r ortrf s3f 3 j s cnr ,'rely surrounded with lofty
;oi -111s, and the oniy oafs, thro' which an army
c= roach Persia. In the year 1722, it furren
« the Ruffian army under Peter the Great,
' u 0 reliorei to-Prrfia, in >%«
; rom a Hamburgh paper of Mav 13.
- -Sir of the American Cor.ful at Algiers, to the
American Consul at Marseilles.
Algiers, April 5.
" j After many difficulties ar.d anxiety, I have fuc
-1 ! ceeded this day, to eftabliffc and to renew our trea
ty with the Regency of Algiers, this lung time
I had almost despaired of effecting it-. More par
, ticulars in my next.
' PARIS, May 6.
5 The Executive Ditcftory of France, have canfed
; a beautiful white horse to be presented to Gen.
" ' Buonaparte.
MADRID, April 16.
Last Saturday died here, the celebrated Duke d«
Crillon. Next Sur.day the French Arohaffadcr
Gen. Perignon, is to have his audience at the
Court, at Aranjtiez. The people of this capital
on his arrival gave linking proofs of cordiality and
' attachment to the Nation he repiefented.
>
t
t Tranjlated fur the MIN ERFA.
PARIS, May 18.
s Head-Quarters at Angers, 25 Floreal.
e The Commander in Chief to the Executive «-'i.
j , redtoiy.
r! Citizens,
t Tiie movements of the Troops of the Republic,
, in this country, have bad the ftfcctfs you expected!-
e Siepeaux and the Chouans whotn l.e comm»«<tfs,
,|, submit to e>ur laws and lay down their ay*s.^
(Signed) >fDCHE.
- | Gen. Hoche further announce, tliat tlie fubdivi- I
r fion of Loire Inferior has>ete*led the Chouans.
f j and taken tbeir chicri*rf?ig!ais ; that all the com
t mui.es from Nant?. :o Alice.:is have fu rendered
. their arms—\y< Debrae, Vallois, Ji.Llfclon ai>d
1 Fayet, fnlj<fiicfs of Vendeans, hive fuU.r.'td !
A
to the Rjpublir ;a» a!fo Flemior D.-bnn,
Brothers, and ten 01 tweiv o-hcrs- rhst
cbiet of divili''ft, Sanglan c .tefi La alt y, Grand
Sabre Barlllon and Tiuchet h.,v.- been arretted it
arms, and are to be tried tlv the military coun.-il-_
•in short that the city ot Na' itt would be . declinej
out of siege the 18th Floreal, a..d that Vendee « as
tranquil.
The Representatives of the Province «f Utrc ' t
in Holland hare ifiued a Proclamation to pro,,
the necessity of a fond loan, and the impoffi'.ility
without that mcafure, <>f pulsing the sea aud laud
forces upon a refpeftaWe footing.
The of Algiers has orde ed his cruifcrs t 0
take all Danish vcflcls. Six (hips belonging to the
'Danes-, in the harbor, he had ordered to be dii.
mantled.
F R' A N C E.
'jUfMt "F TWS
The Commander in Chief of the army of the Jllp t)
to the Executive Directory.
Citizen President,
I rejoicc with all good citizens, and the bn?t
defenders of the Repuhlio, who compose th? itmj
of the Alps, at the new victory which he Execu
tive Directory has gained over the factions wbicl
would anniiiilate the government and the legiilatore
We all fes with the most lively fatisfa&ion, thj
the Directory knows equally well how to difcon
cert the infernal plots of our internal enemies, an.
to fecura triumph abroad to the armies of the Re
public. They may rely on the devotion of
troops whom I command, a» well as on that of tbr
General.
H'*lth and RefpeS,
(Signed)
v 6 KELLERMAN.
On the firft Prarial, a body of 14 men, a part 1
ffce 60th half-brigade, entered Lyons, a»d utterc
violent imprecations against the inhabitants, callii
them chouar.s. They declared they had con
. f-rrr 'V
(pare the Mulca&ms. At tliat moment they fj
citizen Rollet, with a whi'e button in bis hj
They pierced with bayonets this father of a famil
ard ne fell. A t'noufand cries of indignation wc
raised against tl.e detachment of afiafiins, andthf
I fell upou the citizens and plunged their bayonets
their breasts—The citizens hurled (tones at thet
andcompelled them ro take fnclter in hotel commu
The commander, Montchoify, arrived and quel
i ed the tumult ; but the multttu :e prefTed round hi
demanding justice, which he proraifed. The ffi:
> were arretted and difarined. Just as the peop
| were (Hfperfmg, a drum was beat—and 200 mi
I from the barracks of Collinetts arrived. The alar
| became genera!; but on the proinife of the prop
to w-iit in tranquility for the execution of 'uftit
the 200 men were sent to their quarters. At tk
moment another body of 200 men from anoth
battalion appeared and revived thf alarm, whi(
w/s augmented by the fight of fotnfl voluntees wl
had loaded their arms, without orders, and declart
they would re eltabh'fh the fans-onlottes. Bi
other volunteers having wounded two or thr<
.young men, there was a profpe£t of a horrible rea
facre. Th.? Geiteral i
one of the young men from their hands And ordere
the detachments into tkeir quarters.
A provisory agent of police, Seriziat, was
as also one named llotibas. These men ough< t
have attempted to make their crimes forgotten
but they invited their fate,, one by discharging th
piflol at the citizens, the other by wounding
young man ,?ith a poignard.
Tranquillity is reflored. Full confidence is pl»c
ed in General Montehoify by the citizens; he 1
called the friend of humanity and the savior of Ly
ona.
[Journal of Lyons']
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
NEW-YORK, July 28.
Capt, Glad, of the Fair American, arrived la
evening from Nintes, in 40 days. He inforn
that the lalt accounts received at Nantes, were, tha.
an action had taken place on the Rtiine, in which tl
French were fuccefsful. Capt. G. has brougl
papers which are promised to be furmfhed to 1
this dsy. [/} J
Latejl from France.
Late last evening the (hip Fair American, Cap
Glad, was wafted into port from Nantes, wnii
place (he left the 19111 ult. She brings intelligei
of TWO BATTLES ON THE RHINE,
the htft ot which the French appeared to have;
ven way, but being reinforced renewed the cor
bat with republican heroiftn, and totally'routed. 1
Avjlrian army, with imracnfe (laughter.
(Argti«.>-
Capt. Downs, from Gibraltar, informs, that
brought letters from Mr. Humphreys to the 1
ecutive of the United States ; and that the Pi",
raged very truch at Algiers.
From the latejl Parit Papers.
Translated for the Daily /idvertifer.
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED-
Prf/idency ef Citizen Crajfonsi
Silting of 23d Floreal, May 11.
Meflage of the Executive Dire&ory, 25th Flor
May 14, 4>h year ofthe French Republic
and indivisible.
Citizen Legiflatofs,
To infotm thg-nation of the Confpiraey wl
has been dj£i«fvered, we transmit to von a cop
two of the most important pieces found among
of Babceuf.
By the Executive Direflory,
Secretaiy General Lagard
The 34th piece of the 18th bundle of ps
found upon Babcscf, acknowledged by him
with his mark on ibem :
To kill the (ive hundied.
The seven tr.imicrs.
] The commandant at the time and his m?j'»
j To take poflcfiion of the hall of the Anc
, and of the Five Hundred.*
To put to the sword above all, thof- who should t
K-p-.iir thither. v
To r ike pofl'eflion of the barriers, and to fuffei t'
m, perfoa whatsoever to pass without the pass a
words.
To take poffeißon of theTelegtaph at the Lou- v
vie, and alio that at Montmatre.
To make thesrfelves, matters of the River. o
It is effcntial that we have Meudoii and the ar- v
tillery there, amounting to 48 pieces of eights and b
spurs. _
The 18 pieces which are in the garden of there- e
utllaiis. 1
The National Treasury to make sure of some of n
the Administrators and those employed. ' e
The communication between all the fe£tions is p
important ;of eonfequencethe bridges are to be fe-' n
c\:red by the infurgsnts. Waggons are absolutely &
necessary to diflribute provilionj in abundance in all
quarters. The tyrants thrown down, a thing of
the highest importance, the entry of an/ body d
of troops into Paris is to be prevented. Our brothers 11
the brave defenders of their country, will be invit- t
f<i by,a proclamation, and by commiflioners chosen a
from'the body of the people, and from those brave b
men who (hall contribute in the onset, to yield (
themselves individually and without any leader, in p
the midst of their friends. The cavalry, the hufTirs, :
and the dragons, who lhall range themselves under I
the banners of the people, may dispose of their t
horses, cloathing, arms and equipments to their ]<
own use. The soldiers of the other corps shall have
to their #wn use their cloathing, arms and accoutte
ments, and (hall moreover be indemnified in tne I
fame proportion with the cavalry, &c.
Ali and every of thole brave fellows who (hall J
have contributed to overthrow tyranny, fhaJl be
lodged and maintained among the citizens as in *89.
A peace will forthwith be made, worthy a great
people who punish kings and tyrants. Small re
volutionary armies trill be immediately organised, . 1
who will have the care of provisioning the «ity of
Paris ; they will be composed of one third of troops 1
•f the line, and the «th«r thini lYom the troopa in
the city. 1
It is good to observe that as soon as the tyrants 1
are thrown dowi\,hy the confpitators, it will be t>e- ]
ceffary inltantly to caufean infurre&ion of the peo
pie, which must be general; absolutely general
proper writings will be circulated to rouse the peo- 1
pie ; proper agents will be moreover employed to 1
stir them up, to re.enge themselves upon their ene
mies, who vriH be eSrrfully marked oct to t «r.. J
The infurreflional authority must pronounce in
the name of the people, or rather the people them • 1
selves, shall pronounce ths JiflohitlM of every kind i
of authority whatsoever, both military and civil ;
of course every perfou who (hall fa* i>r pretend lhat
he is clothed with any other authority than what t
»J;e people (hall graßt, and who shall attempt to aft i
in confluence thereof, "shall be declared an enemy f
of the people, ?nd dial! be inltantly put to death". ]
It is infinitely effer.tial, it is even the molt import
ant point that fomc such acts should take place ;
the sword mu't be drawn, the L-abbaid must be 1
thrown away. Kcfle&ionßon the part of the peo* {
pie must be prevented, it is necessary that they should 1
forthwith do some ads which will prevept their re
.ta&'af;. "llTj ' „ * >
Iffmme royalists should make any tefiftance, a
column armed with burning torches are to repair in
ftiatly to the place where they n't afTembled—let
be summoned to furrendertheir arms, or in an ]
intent Jet flames aveuge the liberty and sovereignty 1
of the people. <
AM (iraugsrs, of whatsoever nation they may be, I
are to surrender themselves to a provisional arifit a: 1
the chief place in their refpe£tive fe&ions under I
pain of being instantly put to death wherever found.
AH individuals who shall be armed the
people are equally to be inltantly put to death.
Their fpoilsare to belong to their conquerors
The people shall be immediately and eve?) during
the infurreftion placed in healthy and comfortable
habitations, too long hive they been delayed by
fallacious pronnfes. This operation will be ergaaif
ed by commiflioners chofea from their bosom, and
in wfiom 'hey can confide. ' ]
ft is neeeffary on the firft moment of victory to ,
dispatch the fife and intelligent men to the differ
ent potts of Frame, which are the most imporia >t, ,
and which molt within them the feeds of in
furre£tion, fu h as Arris, Pethune, Sain: Omer,
Valenciennes, Tou'on, Marfeilfes, Avignon, Tuu
loufe, GirnobL\ Valence, Dijon, Aurun, Chalons
upon the Marne, Montpellier, Set. See. It is ne
cessary to put !he people ifi those places in a (late of
i futre&ion ar.d to repeat nearly the fame fcenei.
It is nectiTary to arrest
Bclnoc. f
Btu ills Magney, C Army of the weft-
Adj. Gen. Miller, J
To arrest Hoeke.
To arm »he invalids.
The armourers and sword cutters are to deliver
lip all the a-ms which they have with them, of eve
ry kind. They ftiall be paid for them after the in
furreftion, upon their owp ftatcment. The fame ,
with refpeit to the manutaAurers of powder and
Lkll.
The bakers of all the will be summoned
toreoni.i at home, and manufacture their flour in
to bread. Those who (hill violate this order shall
be inßantly hung upon the larap poll next their
dwelling bouse. They shall alf.> be paid upon their j
own C atement.
Evciy t i izen whoever he may be (and this is of
»jhe hijh^ft.i.Tipurtanee) shall be fammoaed to carry
joU.i ! ker>i£xt ri>4ys cwelling house, all the pro- ,
visions in me?l of evcrySfld. Also, i
at ;i fan* make afcupment of t.. ? provi |
4.0 m, ricc and vegetabkb which a t .
<d from the profits of the ba
it conform to this order, shall
fe einV •: y; f •! uh when convidted of it or
• ifrs which will be instituted
PL las soon :is pofli ile. The
"ants are f jectcd to the a
i?hly politic to promise and
■ ? "'»« have ofli'ted to over
iat liberty to re.urn home ;
I '
1 to obrain this permiflioti, they are to be furikfhed 1
with ceitificatcs which will prove umjaellionably 1
1 that they have not betrayed their oaih, to annihilate i
s ail tyrants.
It will be poflibleby the great advantages which <
- will be given to the volunteers, who will march a- i
gainst the foreign enemies, and by the enthusiasm
of liberty and equality, which will be renewed, and 1
- which will be carried to the highest pitch, it will
3 be poflible I fay not to lose a single defender. t
1 had forgot to mention, that a price will be fix- I
- ed for each article of military equipment, which is j
the property of each defender, for instance they f
f may be paid for a horse 800 livres, and 400 for their
equipments—for a fufee or carabin, jo livres —a 1
s pair ofpiftols, 50 livres, &c. they shall be paid im- <
-' mediately upon application after the infurreflion, j
r land offices for that purpose will be eftabliftied. <
1 SAI.EM, July 26. 1
f By Capt Dapicl Peirce, who arrived from Ma- «
' deira on Sunday evening liit, in 43 days, we are
s informoj, that a Dutch fleet consisting of 4 fail of t
- the litfe, J4O gun (hips and 1 frigate?, were lying t
1 at the Grand Canary, watering and procuring
: bread. It is said they are destined for the Cape of
1 Good Hope—and an English frigate had been dif- !
1 patched from Madeira to the Cape, in ofder to <
, to notify the English garrison of their approach,
r Recent ktttrs from theC«pe authorize us in faying ]
r that it would be an easy conquest to a much final - |
r ler force. 1
: DiJtriS of SALEMani BEVERLY.
Arrived, July 9, to n.
c Brig Vtnus, Crafton, Hifpaniola.
Hope, Very, do.
1 Schr. Fjx, Putnam, do.
e Seaflower, Archer, do.
1. Catharine, Henderlon, Martinico.
t BOSTON, July 26.
:- A gentleman is in towß, who conversed at New-
I, ' tvrt, with the pafTengers of a vefTel, that left Fr
if' ] ine ". They men'ion the situation of thee t*t- i
is try as tranquil } provisions plenty. That the Fr.-r>?+ :.
,nA •Z*rJl»hnv-bl-rT Hliin.atety atljofled and ag ;i
to terms of pacification ; and, that no acho* '•
» taken place 011 the Rhine, to the knowledge o t.t
■- people i»i~ Bourdeaux, at the date above mentioned.
Wednesday, July 20.
Arrived fchr. Jenny, Miller, Leightou, EJTequi
-- bo, 2 j days. July 11, I at". 29, 39, spoke fchr.
0 Wiliiam, 10 days from Norfolk for Jamaica. July
17, lat. 40, 34, spoke a brig 4 days from Rhode-
Ifl ind for the Weft-Indies.
n Prig Nancy, Skinner, Lisbon, 55 days. In
•long. 29, 5, spoke brig Hope, Toflrup, 30 days
1 from Si. Croix for Copenhagen.
; Thursday, July 21.
t Arrived fchr. Thomas, St. Croix, 13 days. Left
t there (hip , Rich, of Bolton ; i.hr Pa'ty,
t Spafford, of do. July 10, lat. 22, 9, long. 65,
y spoke fchr. Pioenix, Robertfon, 12 days from
• Portland for Jamaica.
Friday, July 22.
; Artived brig Mary, Cowper, 46 day» from the
c Isle of May. Left there Ship Eliza, cupt. Hnf
- fey,, of Nantucket ; ship Dispatch, Carpenter, New
J York. Spoke no veff. ls
Same day—Schr. Pafsborough, Alkerfon, No
va Scuiia, <4 u.iyYi" —
3 July 27.
1- • Arrived since our lad, ship America, Swain,
t London and Liverpool; brigs, M;>ry, Cowpsr,
n Isle of May; Columbia, Freeman, Cadiz; Meri
y am, Blunt, Halifax ; Polly, Hooper, Madeira ;
Speedwell, Crawford, Liverpool ; Mary, Bum
ham, do. Antoni», Loyo, M?lag-a ; schooners.
t Olive, D.'i'kwater, St. Croix ; Briflt, Crai e, Pa*T
'r borough; Uacoo*, Low, Mariegalante ; Diamond,
I- Reading, Martinico.
>• Ttie following American vcfTels were at the differ
- ent ports of Martinico, Jnly 5.
g Sh p Butler, Jones, Falmouth ; brigs, Elizjbeth,
e Russell, Newburyport ; Hannah, Dal'on, do. La
y vina, Stone, do Ruby, Hufe, do. Nancy, Bartktt,
f- Plymouth; Three Friends, Allen, Cape-Ann
d schooners, Nymph, Mayhew, Newbury for! ; Wil
liam, Low, do. Hflel), Burroughs, Boiton ; Nan
-0 cy, Worth, do. Helen, Bennet, do. Atlantic, Cot
'- tell, do. Hannah, Batchelor, Salem ; Tryal. Rones,
t, do (loops, Stork, B.'fton; ?ccea .
>* Meiley, Portfmonth.
r » Bi V. Jerufha, of Boston, and . i
1- Warrell, of Briflol, were at St. Thomas's. Ji: • ;
is July 9, lat. 21, 17, long. 65, 30, br
c- from Marbiehead to Jamaica.
if June 24, lat. 39, long. 36, brig f. -ifj, Lttk-*
27 days from Norfolk, for Madeira-
Jtiiy 7, lat. 43, 7, long. 58, 12. a brig, 15
days from Norfolk, off Havre.
Jdy 8, lat. 42, 32, 1 mg. 58, 43, brig William,
Cheney, 14 days from Charleftown for Dublin.
July 10, lat. 43, 50, long. 61, 7, brig Eliza,
Muckford, from Salem for Bilboa.
:r Ju'y -22. lat. 42, 20, long. 69, 3, a brig from
5- Machias for Lisbon.
1- July 4, lat. 41, 3, long. 51, the Mary, Taylor,
ie of New Bedford, 10 days from New-York, for
J Fayal.
July 8, lat. 42, 9, long. 56, 30, the .Albemarle,
d Long or Lane, from New-York fur Amsterdam,
•- 12 days.
il The Amsterdam Packet was left in etifiody of a
>r French privateer, June 27.
lr July 23, lat. 42, 32, long. 68, 44, ship —■—,
Hall, from Kennebeck for Liverpool.
>f BOSTON, July 27.
y referred to by Marbois, in his
celebrated report, Jian never yet met oai eye. But
>» it must be a mere local aft ; whereas the principles
1 he advocates in that report, are univeifa! ; and the
it acceptan.e of them by the Council of Atitient j, de-
J ' i-ionltrates, that the French and American govern
menyi think in unifuu on the fuhjeft of National
m rights an>'. engagements. ( Cij! Centinel.) ■
dFaoME U R 0 P E.
,e La ft evening arrived here, the brig Mary, Capt.
a- Jjursham, from Liverpool, 51.days. The raofl
prominent article, by her, is tiie
BRITISH KING'S SPEECH.
e * Thursday, May 19, *796-
r " My LorJs, and Gentlemen,
j The public buficefs beihg now concluded, 1
think ptooer to ~loie this ?:flLn, and, at the fame nn
time, to acquaint you with my mtentfon of giving
immediate diieftion* for calling a new Parliament.
The objects which have engaged your attention, cal
during the piefent -Fcffion, have been of peculiar Jki
importance,-nnd the meafttres which you have a
d ,'p ed have manifelled yotn continued lega/d to tilt pe<
fafety and we!fire of my people. em
The hsppieft effects have been experienced from lie
the provifiont which you hc.ve made for repreflinp rm
sedition and civil tumult, and for reftrainintf. the t»lo
. prog reft of principles sub vet live of all eltaklilhed tL
'government. of
| The difficulties anting to mv fubjefls from the ins
j high p> ice of coin, have so naed a principal objedt fiir
[of your deliberation ; and your afllduity in invefti- wh
! gating that f»'ije£t has strongly proved your anxi wn
lout defiie *q emit,.nothing which could tend to the _
relief of my people in a matter of filth genera! ~
concern.
I have the greaieft fa'isfa&ion in observing that
the pressure of thofc difficulties is no,w in a gieat
degree removed. y C .
Gentlemen oflhe Hnvfe of Cummins, arc
I Mull in a more particular manner return you ft n ,
my thanks for the liberal fypplies which you have j, a |
granted to meet the exigencies of the War. While
1 Kgret the extent of those demands, which the o ui
present eircumfhnces necclTnily occasion, it is a j n f
great consolation to me to oblerve the encreafing
resources by ivlith the country is enabled to sup- foai
port them. |j U
Th.le resources are particularly manifelled in the f u |
(late of the different branches of the Revenue, in vV «
the continued and progressive ejftention of our Na- j,
vigation cind Commerce, in the (leps which have p,j
been taken for maintaining and improving the
Public Credit, and in the additional provision ( 0
which has been nade for the reduttioo of tlie Na- te ,
tional«lebt.
My ■ r ii~ ,-.'!:me'i. 'u.- •'
r ~ -..t> .rt-K'.r l ;.ti»fa£tiort on
the i .isid -Ttnnefs, which J
• • * Irt 3 ' 4 (iucc I hrft w j
| fit t -J*liberate on the s ol
:pu • _ ry in t period of do- a j>
nettii- ant.: e![. had the happi- a r,
j! , a .U tutu Kingdom toa slate ft,,
of unexampled prosperity. jji
You wer: faddenly compelled to relinqnifh the j,-,
full advantages of this lituation, in order to refill | 0|
the unprovoked aygrtffion of an enemy, whose 0 p
hostility was directed all civil society, but ; s
more particularly against the happy union of order (jy
and liberty, as ellafclitbed in these kingdoms.
The nature oftliefyltem intioduced mto France
afforded to that couitry, in the midst of its calami
lies, the ti«!U of csriion beyond the experience of
my former time. Jrwier the prefTure of the new
and unprecedented difficulties arising from such a
Cornell, vou have (>ewn yourselves worthy of all
the blcftitigs you i.hcrit. By your counsels and
comluft, the ConPitutionhas nrefervrd invio
late agai 'I? the dtfigns of Foreign and Domedic
energies ; the hotur of the British name has
aflated ;the raik and Ration which we have hi
therto l»:id in Europe, has been maintained ; and
tlie (jecrlcd (I'peri'.irity of our naval power ha*
been eltanliftici in every quarter-os ilic mnul:
You 'nave c.nalted rio opporta ii y to prove your
iuft anxiety fir the re ePtab'ifhtnent of g»neral
peace on fecurt and honorable terms ; you
haVe, at ttie fme time, rendered it manifell to the p
world, thit while our enemies (hall perfifl in difpo
fitions imL-i>mpatio!e with that obj it, neither the
rtfourcesof my kiigdom, nor the Ipirit o f my peo
ple, will se wanting to the support of ajuftcaufe,
an 6 to tic defetrfe of iheir dearest interelU.
A due sense of this condudl is deeply mprelßd .
On my heart. I trull that all my fubjefls are ani
mated with the f-me fentimen's ; and that their _
loyalty and public {pirit will ensure the eontinuance _£
of that inion ai d mutual 'confidence between me ab
and my Parliament, which best promote the true ag
dign.iiy and glory of my Crown, and the genuine £ r
happinefi of my people. . ;
LONDON, May 21 m
The accnunts fj»m the Rhine make no mention
of the ceflation of the armifticeg| It appeera that
■„ >e entrance of the w
J - J
1 prrihas detached ten
I x-.* my for the|defence
• of 1 d
-J
July .21. f r
he Senior Class, p,
in this Umveitny 1 was Diuibea ; when the following
young gentlemen were approved, as Candidates for
the Degree of Bachelor of Arts :
Thos. Wells Alis, Rugglf* Hubbard,
John Bacon, John Humphreys,
Archibald BafTet, W. H. Jones,
Jonathan Beldes, Salmon King,
Hezekiah Bddan John H. Lynde,
Timothy Bishop, Thomas Miner, * F
Chatles Boftwitl, Joseph Parker,
Jjm«s Canrey, X\ illiam Prince, (
Elihu ChauncejTi Levi Rohbms, t]
Henry Davij. lfaac Seely, n
Charles D.-nnifan, G. S. Sillilttan, e
David Edmonc', Benjamin S lliman, .q
Thad. Fairbsnls, Elilha Stearns,
Bancroft Fowler, Afahel H. Strong,
Ldwa'd Herrick, Fanning Tracy,
John Hcoker, Sam. P. Williams. u
In the afternoon were piefente'l to a numerous /
and respectable audience, the following exhibitions.
An ( irarion, on the importance i>i Union in po- -
iiticsl sentiments and conduct, among the people of '
the United Slates; by Eli(ha>Stearns.
A Dialogue, on the necefiity os-Religion and
virtue to happinels here and hereafter ;bv Timo- ;
thy Bifiiop, Elihu Chauncey, Charles Deniufon, i
• and Thos. Miner.
A dialogue, on tht duty of Patents, with refpefl
to giving or refufing their consent to the marriage
of their children with perfofis inferior condition ; '
by Davi i Edmor.d, Honker, and Afaliel
Hooker Strong.
A Valedictory Oration, on the Pleasures o (
learning and an academic life ; by Fanning Tracy
An address to the Candidates, ou the nature and
M N <t
JF T }
• nra&wnl life of Science !J by Mr. Stcbhins, fcnior,
r furor in this Univsrlity,
The exhibitions were a!f> acccoirpanie 1 by vo
, cal an-J ruftrumental nitUicj happily chosen, aud
r Jkilfujly cdttdUfied-
On few occafior.6 do we remember a iv.orc res
: pe£lful attention given to literaiy efforts, ar a ir.-e
entite and uuminjrlcd pjerulre confcffcd by a:iy aui
) lience. The 11 ile was chaste, and manly, tl:o fen;
' rinienrs ingenious, deli. ate, and virtuous, ar.i ti;e i
r elocution, fiim.jnll, and dignified. It mav be ra
-1 tionally expe&ed.'that sikh hanHfome tettimonirs
of apptobatioti, aJ were given by the audience, will
inspire in the youths, who (lull hereafter appear in
t similar cil-cUmftatfces, that laudable emulation,
- which, while it is mod excited, is alio bell re
warded* bv juH and «naffefted eonv.ru iidation.
Philadelphia^
MONDAY FVTMNQ, A*go 3 t r.
; (Cf" The prise of this Gazette is eight dollars a
year. Subscribers whose papers are feiit per p.,!l
are charged'one dollar yearly in addition for enelo
-1 sing and dircSing, Six month's fubfeription to be
; paid in advance.
Advertisements will be promptly and confpicu
: oufly published, at jo Cents a square for the &.ft
1 infer;ion, and 25 Cents for every continuation.
• We- ire informed that a farmer, a small ditijnr.e
- back ia the country, haviilg deposited one thousand
bulhels of wheat in Albany ; after lepeatediy rc
: fufing twenty (hillings per bushel for his wheat,
1 went a few caysfince to make sale of it. Finding
his expectations difappotnted in getting an enormotts
c pi ice, he went home and a&ual'y became itifan*}
c in coi.feqoence of which it kas been found neeeffcry
1 to chain him. So much for aa inordinate third as
' ter filthy lucre.
[ Mohawk Mercury.j
From a London paper.
1 Remarks on the (late of public'affairs.
* T tie Cabinet of Catharine contains politicians*
whole views, wc have reafutt to think, are not to af
e ford England material assistance in acquiring the
absolute impire of the seas, hy which (he would be
afterward, in a condition to fl.ut up all the Knfllac>
e (hips in the ice of the North, and arbitiarily to
dispose of her commerce as the merchants of Lon
= don might didtate. There are other causes of jea*
loujy which have fettered, and will dill fetter ths
e operalions of the combined powers. Andi'f France
1 is to fall, it (Hull be by her own diflentions, and not
r by foreign hoftihty.
e Married, in England, the bishop of St. David's,
youngest brother to the marquis of Bute, to Mil's
j Penn, daughter of the late Thomas Penn, Esquire,
( . Proprietor of the Province of Pennsylvania.
ARRIVED AT THIS PORT.
•j DAYS,
Schooner John, Wallace, N. Carolina, 8
Virginia, Oneil, do. 6
Eliza, Little, do. 7
Philadelphia, Lewis, Leogine, 11
j Eliza, Moffat, Jereiiiie, 20
Virg. and Phi. packet, Haßet, Richmond, 5
* I ejittity, Bruufvvi. k, N Carolina, 7
r Sloop Concord, Mitchell, Alexandria, 1®
j Mary, Lnnsford, Virginia, 21
j J dne , Jackson, Ncw-Yoik, 7
c Arrived at the Fort,
t Brig Delaware, Dunphy, . Port au-Prince
e A passenger (hip is in the river, supposed to ba
the Henrietta, from Derry. '
We hear that there are letters in town from
Nantes, received by the arrival at New-Yoik, which
j fay that hollinties hfve commenced on the Rhine.
! r Twenty Dollars Reward.
RAN away this morning from the Subscribes, living
in the county of Monmouth, New-Jsrl'ey, a rsmaik
e ably black Negro Man, named B£N—about 4® years of
ie »ge, S feet 9or 10 inches high, flout made, bald on the
15 . crown of his hcai!; had on and took with him a grey
homespun coating coat and jackct, a brown cloth coat,
with a black collar, homespun tow ihirts and trowfers,
with other ftiirts and small cloa-ths wbich cannot be ei:u
meri-.tcd. He i; a coraplaifant, artful and deceitful fellow,
in Whoever will take up and secure the said Runaway, so
lt that his owner may him again, fita'l have the ahcr; re
ie ward, and rcafouable charges paid if brought home.
„ Eiijba Lawrance.
;e July iS—Aug. \ 5 2w
Wanted,
THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
from September, 1795, to theprefent time. Agencrous
'» price will be given- Enquire ot ths>Editor.
ig Aug. >. *§6t
To-Morrcw will be publijhed, x
No. I, 11, and ill, (No. I embellilhed with a superb En
graving, representing the firft introdufiion of the Maid
of Orlians to Cuahles VII, and No. 3 with an ele
gant aad highly fiuifhed Head of Hcnry IV, from an
original painting) of the
HISTORY OF FRANCE,
From the earliest times until the concluQon of the pre
sent war.
SUCH gentlemen as wish to receive this work in vo
lumes will be attended to by fignifying their with t»
ths Publilbers and paying the firil volume in advance, 45
numbers making a volume, at three-fixtecnths of a dollar
each. To gentlemen of the trade or others who tske
.quantities, a liberal allowance will be made—-orders for a -
ny quantity of copies addressed jo A. & J. G. Hender
fon, at Me IT™. Eioren and Mad an Printers, back of No. 77
Dock-Street will be carefully attended to.
0" Sui/criftferu •will ie received at the prrfjnt rate
until the middle of September, to thoji who niijh tofub-
US scribe after that time the price <willbe advanced.
is. %* Printers of News papers throughout the United
State< lubo'ivould wijh to entourage this undertaking by
0 f receiving fub/criptions luill please adveriift this in their
rtfpeciiue papers end transmit the number of fubftrtben
on or b(fore the 19th September.
r,d A.iguit 1. taw&fjt.
> n , Infurancecomp. of the state of
:6 Pennsylvania.
ge The t>ir«<slors have declared a dividend of Cite«r dpl-
P . lars on each (hare of the capital of faij company, for the
| u '] iaft fix months which, will be paid to the Cockholders or
theii legal rcprefcßUUTSE on every day after the Jotk
instant.
S. W. Fi/ber,
' Secretary.
1 August 1, Jnc»
Just Published,
BY THOMAS POBSON,
At the Stone House, No. 41, Couth Second street,
neatly printed in one volume qti2rto, price fix
dollars t)Se fine pspcr, or five dollars the com
mon:
The Four Gospels,
TRANSLATEDfrom the GREEK, with PRE
LIMINARY DISSERTATIONS, and notes
CRITICAL and EXPLANATORY,
By GEORGE CAMPBELL, D. D. F. R. S.
. & c -
Principal of Marifchal College, Aberdeen.
*#* Th« charadter of the Author for aeutenefs
and erudition has been eftabhfhed by his essay on
miracles in answer to David Hume," the greatest
xmftrrpiece of the kind ever published, and by his
" Philosophy of Rhetorie," and to the merit of
the present work, the result of nearly forty years
fludv and applieation, and the substance of his
course of ledtures in his official capacity, the
reviewers have given ample teftirriony, but their ac
count,however honorable to the work, is too long,
for a place in this advertisement, the work howev
er is now presented in an American edition at not
more than half the ptice of the London copy.
July 20. 4w2w
UNITED STATES/""" Tfr
Pennsylvania D;?ritl<ST, J "•
IN THE NAME A NO BY THE AUTHORITY
OF THE UNITED STATES,
By WILLIAM VIC HOLS,
Marshal of the Pennsylvania Diftrift, —
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS the Congress of the United States, at
the firft session of the fourth Congrcfs, to wit, on
ihe twelfth day of Maylaftpaft, passed an aft, to repeal
so much of an aft, intituled " an aft to ejtabhfh th«
Judicial Courts of the United States", as dlrefts that the
alternate feflions of the Circuit Court for the Diftrift of
Pennsylvania, shall be hcrtden at Yorktown ; and for other
purpol'es, in »he follow ing words, to wit.
- Fourth Congress of the United States :
At tie firft feflion, begun and held at the city of Phila
delphia, in the State of Pennfjrlvama. on Monday, the
seventh of December, one thousand seven hundred and
nine y-five.
An Aft to repeal so mucb of an aft, intituled " an aft to
establish the judicial courts'of the United States", asdi
fefts that alternate fdffions of the find circuit court for
the diftrift of Pennsylvania shall be holden at York
town ; and for other purpdfes.
Sect. I. BE Itenafted by the Senate and House of Re
presentatives of the United States of America, in Coa
grefs assembled, That so much of the fifth feftion of the
aft, intitu'ed "an aft. to establish the judicial courts of
the United States", as directs that alternate feitons of the
circuit court for the diftrift of Pcjinfyl,vania shall be hold
en at Yorktown, be, and the fame is hereby repealed j
and that all the feflions of the said circuit court shall, from
and after the pSffing of this aft, be holdes at the city of
Philadelphia, ciceptmg only, when at any fetTron of the
said curt, the judges thereof lhall direct the next l'eflion
to be holden at Yorktown , which they are hereby autho
rized awl empowered to do, whenever it shall appear to
them to be necessary.
Sect. 11. And be it further enacted, That all such pro
eefs of the said eourt, a» may have issued before the pass
ing of this aft, and all recognizances returnable, and all
suits and other proceedings that were continued to the
said circuit courr for the diftrift of Pennsylvania, on the
eleventh of October next, in Yorktown, fliall now be re
turned, and held continued, to the fame court, on the
fafoe day, at Philadelphia- Aii(£ to the end tha? suitors,
witnesses, and all-others concerned, may have notice of
the alteration hereby made, the Marflial of the said dif
trift is hereby required temake the fame known, by pro
clamation, An or bsforctlie firft day of August next.
Jonathan Dayton,
Speaker of the House of P eprefentattves.
Sambel Livee.mo*e,
President of the Senate, pro tempore.
Approved, May the twelfth, 1796,
George Washington,
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls, in ths Office of the Depart
ment of State,
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
I DO HEREBY MAKE KNOWN, that all such
process of the said court as has, or ipay be iflued, and all
recognizances returnable at Torktmnn aforefeid, on the ele
venth day of Oilcbrr next, will be returned to (he Circuit ftf
the United States, at the City Hall, in the city of Phila
delphia, onTuefday, the elttenth day of October next, at
t/rem.o'clock in the forenoon, And that all foitsaud other
proceedings that werec&ntinued to the said court at York-
Sown, will be held and continued at the said Circuit
Court, at Philadelphia, 011 the fame Rlt vealb day of Octo
ber next, of which all persons concerned are dtfired to
take notice, and give tbeir attendance thereat.
GIVEN under my hand, at my office, in the Diftrift
of Pennsylvania, the twenty-seventh day of July,
in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety-fix, and of our Independtnce the
twentj'-firft.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjbal.
Julyga 7 §aw
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED rWIVTENHAM, situate in the
township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7,-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
, new Western road s containing 2.30 Seres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft £ruble o! the firft quality. There are
on the preroifes a good two flory brick house, with 4 rooms
on a fior, arid cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, ftabLs,
and Other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and stone
fprlng-lioufe ; tv. e good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are allin clover, except tho'fe immediately
urtder tillage, and arc so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The situation is pleafont and healthy, and from the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
country feat.
The foregoing U part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
deceifcd. and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
_ Oft. 9. eo.J Surviving Executor.
FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD?"
RAN aw..y from, the fubferiber living near" Church
Hill, Qu-en nns County m the State of Maryland'
about the fin. of January last, a black negro m;n, named
Sam, about thirty years of age, 5 fret 8 or 9 inches high,
has a crooked finger on one hand, and one and foot
fmallerthan the other, fomeu hat roundfhouldered, his
cloath.ug 1 nknown. Any person who wili secure or
bring said ftllow home, lo that I may get him again {hall
have the above reward with reasonable charges.
WILLIAM JACOBS.
June 4. *iawim.
«
Mr. FRANCI S,
(Of the New Thratrg)
TAKES this opportunity df returning thanks to his
fchokrs and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfelf that his. attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any promises of conducting his future
; f(hemrs oh the most liberal and ftrifteft terms, of pro
priety, totally iinnereflary.
! N. B. Private tuition as usual.
June j law
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
s Including theNoRTHERN Liberties and diftrift of;
! Southwark; >
1 Published, and fold bv
BENJAMIN DAVIE'S,
f No. 68, High street,
g (Price one dollar.)
s THIS plan is »6 iriches square, and has been en
graved by one of the firft artists in the city, from a late
e and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " fpme account of the
y city, its population, trade, government, icc.
- July 19 tu &f tf
t •
For Sale,
A LARGE ELESANT AXD WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
ATTITHaLOT ef GROUND thereinto belonging,
VV the weft fide of Third-street, n;ar Union-street
containing in front 32 feet, and in depth too feet, to an
alley leading into Union-ftrc-t. The house is 34 feet front
and .>o feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
it large, commodious, and completely finifled; the two firft
n stories are each 13 feet high; there ire io mahogany
il doors in the house ; a geometrical flaircae, With itiahoga
1i ny rails and a gsod fty-ligiit. Thekitclen is in the cell
e ar, which is spacious and convenient, and finifhed With an
if oven, stew-holes and pantries, a ferw«-<' ha!' fljrgp '
r wine-cellar adi" ; -' -
area in which _b.e ■>: ,'r ; ' 1
Communicating v h the i. ;
t- hrick house, on t* Ticrth 1
e itig 30 feet fror hy 20 -ret oi
d is at present oc
part divided in.
0 ipay dt a ftriall'.Apem'e be • . j. r
i- dwelling: Ih' ' ' aKI tile front
r and back have Venetian window-shutters. Aljoiningthe
•- i!,(l houfc . "P or - the lot belonging to the firft, are erected
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very eoQd coach
- house and stables finifhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
the city, on a lot containing on Union direct 30 feet, and
e in depth on the .vest fide of said alley 51 feet. There are
f good cellars the whole of the Inildingi, and a wine
e room over part of the liable, with a liay-loft over the re
- mainder. For further particulars enquire of
1 EDWARD RONSaLL & Co.
1 At their Oflice No. $4 Dotk-ftreet. be ween Walnut & I'etr
f streets.
e Sih month 24th, 1796.
1 —
George Dojson,
BEGS leave to inform the Store-Kepers in To&n and
Country, that he has removed frtm Market-Street to
N°* 25, south Thirc-ftreet,
' where he is opening a Large and Elegant Assortment of the
e undermentioned articles—viz.
c Superfine London Cloths and Kerfeymerts,
Yofklhire second Do. Do.
e Elastic do. do.
i, MixM anj Blue Coatings
f Flannells, See.
; Manchester Printed Callicoes,
». London Chintz ditto,
Blue and ditto Furnitures,
India ditto,
Long Cloths, ColTaes, Baftoa, Battillass Conievrcms,
4-4 9-8 5-4 k 6-4 Superfine India Bojk Maflins
4-4 and 9-8 India Book Handkerchief*
4-4 and g-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 & 6-4 plain do. Mulling,
4-4 &6-4Britifb Jaconets,
6-4 Britilh Checks and Stripes,
4-4 India do. do. do.
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madraj HandkercWefs, &c.
A large alfortmcnt of figur'd and plain Mqflineti,
Quilrings, Dimities, and Striped Nanieens,
1 Fancy WaiftcOatings,
] Ginghams of the firft Quality, fubjeftto Drawback,
India Nankeens,
£ Men's White and coloured Silk ftoiHiings.
■W 9
t — ; C,
r . Samuel Richardet,
t 13 ESPECTFULI-V inform- th, —
- Merchants, that i.
> TAVERN and MERCH/:
city of Philadelphia:
t The Subfcriptio.n Roi •'
, daily papers publilhed i
- ton, Baltimore, toge'!
s mereial citin of E x :
and none permitted
Tea, Coffee, Sonj.-., CrMM*. iuiu a-variety
of French Liquors; together with the u'ual refrefhments,'
will at all times be procured at firebar.
Gentlemen may depend on being acommodated with '
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquois, and the most ,
approved Malt Liquors fromLondonandother breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest i
» productions of tho Season.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be ,
. accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinner, or Suppers at
, ho,,r 1 5 mo!t convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is 1
. regularly kt.pt for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had '
> at the bar. 1
« t The Lodging Rooms will he con'pletey furnifhed, ?.ed
) the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requiute.
gT Samuel Richardet will behapp; to receive, and
. execute the commands of his Friends, an! the Public at
' ! a . rg J ; , f aI ) d with g rit ' tu de for their favo lrs , he pledges
. himfelf that nothing on his part shall be vanting to pre
. fcrvc that patronage wi»h which he has beer; so dillinguifh
ingly honored. a
! Philadelphia, April ig.. C 3
s For Sale,
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
IN New Jersey, near the Forks of Little Ema-Harbour
The Grift MiHis f.Uy by fort, feet, two w« "wheels',
and calculaM for four rup of Stones, with lcreen, fans
. and boultrng-cloths, Ac. The Saw-Mill has tv. ofaws,and
capable ofcuttmgfiveto 6 100 thousand fectof Boards per
> Y< T', A valuable piece ef Cedar Swamp, within a mile
of a^dinl^Th""J qUartcrs of a mile
1 rrUU taih ' may be taken by water
ALSO FOR SALE,
Several Valuable Tracts of Land
In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be Jr.-
: edin the notes of Messrs Morris' a'nd NicllfX or 7n"
r.Ti/ U j ' l>Cr apply to the Primer.
aaw
t s
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SJLE,\
Souchong
Hyson Skin /
Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS
, e Hyson and \
Yello-v Nankeens
1 China vVare, illbrted in Boxes and Che.ls
Quicksilver
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
chifts
- ' London Market MADEIRA WINE
London particular fin pipes, hogfaeads, &
New-York Market ) quarter calks
>17 Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogfteads
Sugar Candy bythe Box
Sail Canvas No. x a 8
Lead in Onsets
3 Cades of Cutleryaiiorted
A few cherts of Manchester Gbods, assorted thick
sets, cords, striped Nahkec'ns, &c.
e 3 Small packages of black i'ewing-littts
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
e Nails aflbrted in cases
July 18 mw<slf
JOHN PAUL JONES.
INFORMATION is hereby -given, that the late John
Paul Jones was a proprietor of five shares (amount
ing to about 5*867 teres) in a tra& of land purchased.by
the Ohio Company, in the territory of the United States■>
of America, north-weft of the river Ohio ; and that his
heirs, or legal roprefentative, on application to the direc
tors of faid'company,at Marietta in the territory afore
n said, will receive a deed of the faitl five ihares, or rights
it of land.
e The application may be made perf&nally or by an'sigent, \
ft but proper documents mull be produced ta prove the
y claimant or claimants the legal heirs or representative of
- the said Jones.
n.b. As it is not known in what country the person
n or persons interested reside, it will be an a& of beixevoleriee
; . :very Printer in America and Europe, who lhall insert
' ivcrtifement in his paper.
1 behalf of the directors of the Ohio Company,
RUFUS PUTNAM.
[Juneof-] j a^VTV¥
Law Book-Store,
No. 313, High Sm t.
O I'ORGE DAVIS begs to inform his profeffional
j vJ friends, that per the Ceresjuft arrived from Lon
don, lie has received the following scarce and valuable
, books. State Trials, 11 vpl. in 6 and 11 vol. Ruff
-1 lread's Statutes at large, 16 vol. Wpods' Institutes,
Coke's Entries, Raftell's do. Browne's do. Heafnes
pleader, Coke's ad, 3d, and 4th Institutes, ® vol. Roll's
Abridgment, Brooke's do. Buiftrode's Reports, Hoil's
do. a vol. in 1, Floyers Proilor's practice, .Clarke's
Admiralty, Rutherford's Institutes, Deinolagy, or the
' Eloquence and Logic of the Bar. These with his very
lprge colleiftion from Dublin now on hand, will enable
hirn to supply an entire library or a single book, as
gentlemen may liave (Jfcalion on their immediate ap
plication.
[ July 14. 3W2W
> ~ * ' 1 —— —
City cf Washington.
: SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A majnifippm
dwelling-house, 3 ca fii 30.000, are J -s°> ooo
1 ditto 15,000 & cast 25,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto xo,ooo & cash 10,000 ac,ooo
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5;>ooo & cash 5,000 10,000
I cash prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are, • ro,eoo
10 do. IjQOO - - 10,000
so do. 500 - - xo,ooo
00 do. ioa - - 10,000
200 do. 5X> 10,000
400 do. i; - 16,000
l,eoo do; 20 - ao.ooo
15,000 do. 10 - I^o,ooo
16>?39 prizes.
3£,z6i. Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 40,0000
N. B. | To favour those who may take a quantity of.
Tickets, the prizopf 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
and the 30,000 the last but one :
' approved notes, securing payment in either money
o/' p. res, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
V .her not lets than 30 tickets.
•S ? Lottery will afford an elegant specimen as the pfi
•uldings to be ereited in the City of Washington—
' Twa beautiful designs are already felc&ed for the entire
:on two of the public squares; from these prawings
proposed to erect; two centreand four corner buildings,
_ as soon as poffitrle after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fchernc for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necefTary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part of the fuhd intended for the National
University, to be eredled within the city of Walhington.
1 he Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finilhad ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is ck>fed, are to be considered as given towards
the fun#! for the University ; it being-determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the er-ding of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes
are held by the President arid two Dirt-dors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
1 mount ot the lottery.
The twenty spur gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Cominifiioners aflifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
a second time oh behalf of the public ; a fufficient nun,
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other fedsral ob
jecls may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the d.fterent parts of the
• Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
. have been sent for sale, the public are assured that the
> drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe difpofol of
th« tickets, has rendered the ihor- fufpetifiori indiincnfainV '
i , , . SAMUEL BLODGET
r 1 - ad at the Blnk of ColWvia ;of
James A\ eft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter GiiprffiTsofton ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and oL-lGchard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. /
1 ■ —
1 fqr^ALE %
A TT Va l i!!I r VIER - hilf ; »bout four hun
s \ rr • E "1 u " t: at thc ofti « "f the Gazette
of the Uuitea States No. 119 Chefout-ftrea. §
UNITED STATES, ' ' •
Pennsylvania DtsrxTcr, )
Notice is hereby given,
THAT purfuhnt to a Writ to me <Ji> e ,?K:d, from the ho
-3 norahle Richard Peters, Elquire, Tud«;t; of the Dii
(lrfc£t Court ot the United States in and for the Pennfyiva
■ ,iia Diftridt,
Will be ezpofed to Sale,
1 at the Ciiftom-Houfe, on Monday, Ufc jj'th flay of i„.
iruft, 3 Bags of COFFEE
'I Bbl SUGAR
l Half do. do.
» Do. do. tamarinds
& 3 Kegs do.
3 Sugar and
3 Do. Coffee
The fame having fern libelled prosecuted, and .
condemned as forfeited, in thafaid court-
WILLIAM NICHOLS, MarAkl.
Marshal s Office, 30th July, 179(1.
k- ■
Lottery and Brokers Office,
A 7V 64 South Secondflreet,
~rTCKISff6 in the Canal L'ottury No. H, are -now rea .
1 dy for sale, Check book kept for the elimination
of Tickets, and Prizes paid, without dedu<3ion.
The Subscriber solicits the application of the Public or
any ol his friends who "wilh to purch fe Or fell Ba"nic Stock
Certificates, Bills of Exchange, or Notes, Hdufes, Lands'
Lotts or Merchandize of any kind, »r to obtfin Money
on deposit of property.
1 WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
"" Late Agtnt for the Canal Lottery Company.
c " £/" share? an Tickets in the latt Newport Lisiig
c " Wharf, Hetil and Public Softool Lottery examined; a
to complete lift of all the prizes having been received at
rHis office.
J" nc 6. w&s
4 ■
No. >34.
Diftrift of Pennfilvanis, to wit.
n ]|D Eit Remembered t hat on the aad day cf Mijr, in the
• c D twentieth year of the Independence of the United f>tafe»
rt of America, FrakCis SimElus, of the laid hath
1 dej*>fi*d in this office, the title of a book, (he ri.tti
he claims a« proprietor in the words following Co wit *' ME
DISAPPOINTMENT, or THE FORCE Or CREDUII-
TV, a nr.il rpii'iL li.ua. «r.U» My AMkw Itmon,
- Esq. 2d edition revised and corre&ed with large .idditiins by
the author."
" Enchanting gold ! that doll conspire to blind,
" Mnns' erring judgment and mifguide*ihcmiMd,
" In search of thee, the wretched worldling goes,
il " Nor dangers tears, tho'Bonds of night Opffflfe."
1- In conformity to the aft of the Crt«j>refs of tfit Utfftft
e States, entitled'- An aft for .the encouragement of learning,
by fecuringthecppies ef maps,aharts and books to the authors
I and proprietors of filch copies dkring the times therein mca
s tioned. SamcEl CaIOWeOE, 01k Dill. ten.
s The above Optra will l>e publijhed in the course of two or th'/te
s ue*s. July 22 f4t
I ' University of Pennsylvania,
7 # July 16, 1796.
c Summer Vacation will take place on Monday next,
s •* tKe J Bth inflf. and continue for Four weeks.—Tkediffet
)m ent Schools withths several Tutors will accordingly
aflemblcon Monday, the 15th day©T Au^uft.
By the Faculty, Wm, Rogers, Sec'y.
For sale by the fubferibers,
IN PENN-STREET,
130 quarter Chelb frelh Hyson Tea;
ieo ditto do. frefh Souchong Tei;
330 Boxes China, containing ftflall tea setTs tit 41
pieces;
Wiliings & Francis
January 30 --
To be fold,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Wootftury, cotfii
ty of Gloucester, a'ncf.lbate of New-Jtrl'ey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres 5 a (uitable propOri
ticin of which is woodland and improved, meadow. A *
great part of the arable land is in a high state of -uitiva
tion, and very natural to the pr'ddmSion of Red Clover.
On said plantation there is a genteel tW-ftory briclt h6t<fe,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carmge
hsufe The garden is large, and contains a good collec
tion ot the kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees;
the o#chardeonfi/tso'f ah on t tnVee h'uiidreS grafted apple
trees. Any person iacfeed to purchaTi saW preinil'es, irfay
be informed ef the terms by applying to
Aiidreto Hunter.
f. J u, y *9 f
H ' '
T On Monday next, ajthinft. (July,)
r \*r*n SolitH street wharf, thV cargocs oF Superb,
Weft Indian and IfabeHa, froM JaWalca and Hivartili 1 , coa
ulling of
- Moiafles in Hogtbeads,
s Goffcee in hogsheads, Sc ba^s,
1, FCR SALE BY
f PETER BLIGHT,
Who has alio for sale,
' A quantity of Jamaica GINGER,
• Pimento & 7
Cocoa, } ln Ba S s >
e And » 5 o boxesHambro' WINDOW GLASS, ,by o.will
® be fold cheap.
c July 20 diot& tuth 8c s jot
« —
5 No. .138.
° Di/lrilt of Pennsylvania :to wit.
1) En remembered, that on the twenty-fourth £iyof lutlf,
9 '"ef twer,t,Bth yMr Of the Independence ot the United
k j I''"' J 0 * 1 " Orrnrod, of tiie said Diiirifl hrth'
deposited in this office the title of a book, the right wKetetof
~ a '°" as Proprietor, i n the wortls following? to wit :
A Ihort and candid Enquiry into the proofs of Christ's
' 1 "• yto'h Doftoi Prieftiev's opinion concerning
| C ' „ ' 5 ° cca ' lc>n ® ll y tonfidered. In a letter to a friend.
k y ,AR LES Wharton, D. D. and Member of the
1. fnilofophteSl Society of Philadelphia.
e VHofoever deaitth the Son the fame bath not the Fjt'i
-- Let that therefore abide in ypu ye havi* he?.fti
'■ trom the beginniag ; if that which ye have *■'&
c " beginning ihall remaw-fnyou, ye alf<- m
;$ " the ton and in ijjrft'thtr. Si- 101-*> c. ii. v. 23,
2<|."
d in to the aft of,«*lf Congress of-the United Stat'
, intitules '* An a£t Cncourageineni of lean: ng, b -
[ lining the copies Charts an^
and proprietors of Tuch cooies, d ' * u
mentioned.' 'SAM! 1 '
Cletk'of the D
—-
PRINTED BY JO IK?
—No. 11 f.
[Priec Efefet Dollar? T
■