#a?ette Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
„ „ MObfDAT EVENING, OCTOBER 3, 1796. \Volvme X.
Number 1269.J * 1 ■ —Wzte— ■ l ■■■ ■' 1 n. , »
1 * —— I v ** * r "n
For Boston,
The Schooner JOHN,
A constant trader, Peter Coffin, niafter,
P wfesrf, will fail in »11 next week.
iC Freight or passage apply to the Captain on board or to
K Edward Stow, jun.
Vhp t»»T'ceired by the above vessel,
Some excellent Pickled Salmon,
and a few quintals ol th« _
Very bell kimLof Dumb Fifes- -
September 10-
For Cork,
¥be Ship Mary Ann,
Francis Stuart, mailer: is a ftreng, good
fails fad, and has good accommo
dation, for paffeirgers. Great part oftier
ready, lhe will fail in io days. For freight er pallage
apply to the Captain on board, at Mr. ShortaUs whaif,
. Or to Stuart iff Barr.
Sept. 2<). dtf No. ibo, South Front-street.
The Br ig x DIANA,
Lying at Chefnut-ftreet wharf; a flout
well built vessel, one hundred & (ilty-eight tons burthen ;
well found, and but four years old. Apply to
Jofepb Anthony iff Co.
Sept. 26. <i 6
tor Charter,
I The ship Dominick Terry,
Jacob De Hart, matter : an excellent
vessel, of about 3000 barrels burth;n.
Jeffe iff Robert Wain.
Septembei tr. ■
j_JT* For CTiarter,
The Danifll Blr l ue Beneventura,
Samuel Stu!>, matter,
2<<sco>£S«Ls-Sa good vessel, of about two hundred
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WALN
Sept. 17. d'f
FOR LONDON,
The capital (hip CERES,
fail Soon For freight or passage
to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
y<jhn Vaughan,
September 10. Front-street.
FOR SALE,
SjgL The ship STAR,
J OHN Vanneman, Mailer,
T YING at Walnut-flreet wharf, Philadel-
JLj phia built, of live oak and cedar, will
-carry about 3 200 barrels, istwo-years old, and in com- '
plea: order to receive a cargo—For terms apply tjo
THOS. & JOHN RUTLAND.
Who have also for sale said velfels cargo —consisting of—
Wine and Boner bottles,
V,"ir.J.. j\V 0.-fh, 6bySto 16 by 12.
F.artiien-Ware in crates.
Grintltlones, Coils, Whiting, See.
" §__ J
Dutch Goods,
Received by the Pennsylvania, from Amjlerdam,
GIN, in pipes
Morlaix
Tjcklenburgs y In Bales
Ofnaburgs J
Hacrlem J Strip*, in cafe,
Hollands | DUCK, in ditto I
Ravens 3 .
JBedticks, in ditto
Brittasrnes > .
Platilles \ m dltto
For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
AUg. 29 J 1
L A N D I N G,
From on board the Brig REBECCA, Dominic Davine,
Mailer, at Philip Care's Wharf, and for Sale by the
Subscriber,
London Particular Madeira WINE,
In Pipes, Hoglheads and Quarter Calks.
Thertjare in the above parcef ro Hhds. of CHOICE
OLD WINE, fit for immediate use.
' Robert Andrews,
Sept. 6. mv&f No. 86, So. Wharves.
John Whitefides & Co.
Have for Sale,
Venetian Red,
Spanilh Brown,
White Lead, ground in oil;
Shot, No. i, 2, 3, 4, J'
London Porter, in calks and bottles.
Green Copperas.
Several crates 1 of Queens Ware, in fetes, with desert
ditto eamplcat.
Biillered Steel, 1
German ditto. {
Sept. 21. d2-w
To be disposed of, <
'T'HE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who i
-L has between f»ur and five years to serve : She
cm be recommeuded for herfobriety and honesty. For,
particulars enquire at No. 132, Chefnut-ftreet.
August 3. wfrltf
At a special meeting of the Board of Di
feilont for ejiablijhing ufeful Manufaflures, halden
at Pater/on, July 8, 1796,
P ESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stoek-
LV holders of the Society be called 011 the firlt Monday,
■being the third ay of Oilober next, at Paterfon, by ten
of the clock of the fame day ; then and there to take
into confidcrution the propriety of dissolving the said
corporation, agreeably to the law >11 such cafe made and r
•provided—and the Stockholders are cameftly requcflfd c
to a:und the said meeting in person or by proxy. r
Awp.ft 27 ; dtiothO f
For Sale,
A Complete Font of Brevier,
neM , and yet unopened. The weight of thi=
. JL i fotit is about 3x3 lb. It is from the Foundery of a
"Vl r i3fon & Sor.s,Glaigow, and will be fold at coll & charges, j
Iot: Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes. r
Enquire at the Olficc of the Gazette of the United
States, *119 Chefnut-ftreet.
September 27. . dtf
Washington Lottery.
The Twenty-fourth& lVenty-fifch Days' Drawing of I
t;he Wafciiigton Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office
r > No. 234, Market-street, where tickets may be examined.
k - N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
to lotteries majr be procured. tc
O&ober i, 1796. ® ti
Thomas Ryerfon
HAS Jr.ft received, by the *£$9 Molly and Hamburgh
Packet from Liverpool, and the Light Horse from /
" 1 -=?rrp epcr.lng for r-ie, St -frii gw
177, ■ Markec-ilreet, an extennv'e aflbrtment of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware
and Saddlery.
>d The (hip Caroline, now on htr paflage from Liverpool
0 to Philadelphia, brings the remainder cf his fall impor
ig tation.
re N. B. At the above store may be had, a few elegant
f, Mahogany Cases for Table Furniture; also, a good -u
fortment of the best kinds of Knives and Forks.
Sept. 13. d —
French Goods.
Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-de- \
Grace,
40 I r " nts X Ladies' SHOES of all colors forts and sizes
1 > I Cafe j —
1 Ditto white and colored Silk STOfIKINGS
I Ditto Fine LAWN
1 Ditto best fine CAMBRIC
- 1 Ditto Ladies' bd!t lhammy and Grenoble Gloves r
F«r Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. j
*"g- 24
.t Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
No. 76 High Sheet,
HAS received, by the latefl arrivals from Europe and
the East Indies, a well /elected alTortment of Silk
Mcrcsi^r,Linen E>rap«*y li.ui J
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowed term* ;
{ AMONGST WHICJI ARK,
' Some fine India mullins emoroidered with gold and IHver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, iad Mulmul ditto
d Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black t«ffeties,lutii£lringsand colored Persians
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and (hort Nankeens
Englilh Mantuas of the firft quafity
Damalk table linen and napkins, v«ry fine
' Silk Hosiery, an elegant a.Tortment
;e Thead and cotton do
ir Umbrellas — silk, oil'd do. and do cloth c j
French cambrics, very fine
Irish Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
For Sale,
(In an excellent situation for business,)
A three-story brick House and Lot of
Ground,
j Eighteen feet front and twenty-five feet in depth, on
_ the South fide of Marker near FroAt-ftreet, now in poffef
ficn of Samuel Read. e
Apply to
Israel Pleafants, or
Charles & Joseph Pleafants. ji
Sept. 13. ; dtf
The Cargo of tKe iPolacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lis
bon, landing at the fubfciibers wharfs ' .1
28 Pipes of Brandy . w
18 Bales of Spuniih wool ,1,
3 do. of Annifeed A
7000 Bulhels of Lilbon Salt
80 boxes of Lemons
For fife by WILLINGS it FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hoglheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS, H
received by the Ihip Dominitk Terry, Capt. De Hart, J
from Kingston. ra
ScjH. 13. -< d ' of
FOR SALE, i
1, WINE, Ijondon particular Madeira, 4 years eld,
in pipes amHioglheads t0
Claret, gerpiine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland b'-
> Earthen Ware, in crates
£ Basket Salt, in hoglhe-ids P r
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
ci]
Steel, German and Rnlfia, in barrels
• Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas, m
Tin plates—An inveJice Stationary, by
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
J"ly 29 §
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery. 1-
Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Wafliington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
t tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination. be
The fubferiber foKcits the application of the ;»üblic Se
and his friends, who with to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills #1 Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands, R
J &c. or to obtain money on deposit of property. t [,
; ■ Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augufi 18, 1796. mth L<
For Sale, th
The Time of a Negro Man, , t >,
Who i? a good Cook. Enquiie at ,No. 109, South lei
Water-Street.
Sept. 23. dio ;
I WA N T E D, ~ IS
j A Middle-Aged WOMAN, who can be well rccom- al
j mended, to take charge of the entire management of
I children—Sach a person will meet with fuituble encou
ragement, and may hear of a place, by applying to the
printer of this Gazette.
bept. 14. mwf
Dissolution of Partnership. tic
THE Partnerlbip ROBERT ANDREWS and
, D AVID MEREDITH, under the firm of ANDREWS
1 and MEREDITH, being dillolved. All peifbns who are
in iebted to, or who have claims against ibe (aid house are re
requeAed to apply for fcttlrnienj to the fublctiber. ' ' n
ROBERi ANDREW'S, th
„ No. So. Whaive*. gf
5ept.6,1736. d ,f
For Sale,
f By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage, ,
■ ConGfling of JiSerent sizes, from 1X inch cables down <
to rope of 3, i.ichis, of different lengths: Imported in (
the ship Swii, from Hull, and cutiiled to drawback. .<
Sept. 27- dtf ]
r- — — I
Twentv Casks excellent Claret and j
/\ few pipes choice Bordeaux P»randy,
t- For file by _
Joseph Anthony iff Co.
September td6
1 NANKEENS,
Of the jtrjl quaky, FOR SALE BY,
Rp. and JAS. POTTER.
1 For any quantity above Fiye Thousand Pieces, a li
beral credit will be given. R. & J. P.
September 13. T. tf
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the bejt quality and on reajcnable terms >
ITOR SALE BY
Philip Nicklin & Co.
26. dtf
THIS DAT PUBLISHED,
By J. ORMRQD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price 12 1-2 Cents)
The President's Address
To the People of the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
at the expiration of the present constitutional term of
presidency.
J Sepienfrcr 20. d
PVNickiin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
Souclong ~
Hyfoi Skin J
s Younj Hyson > fFRESH TEAS
Hyfoi and \ 1
fmpeial •*
Yellav Nankeens
Chim Ware, aflorted in Boxes and Chests
Quiotfilver
Bantanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
chests
Lonffln Market } MADEIRA WINE
Lonon particular >in pijies, hoeflieads, &
NcwYork 'Market J quarter casks
Teniriffe Wine 'in pipes and hogfceads
Sufe.T Candy by the Box
SafiCairvas No. 1 a 8
Leal in fhects
3 Cilks of Cutlery aflorted
A f;w chests of Maiicheftjer Goods, aiTorted thick
sets, cods, striped Nankeens, Ac.
3 Snail packages of black sewing-silks
& Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Niils aflorted in casks ,
July 1 g mw&f
/ ~W&nted to Rent,
A convenient, well Jurr,ifli.d Bed Chamber,
With a g;ood fire-place, in an airy and healthy part of
the city. The person whe wants to rent such a chamber,-
weuld have no olijeitiou-to board, or breakfaft ofily, with
the family occupying the house, as may be moil agreeable.
Apply to the printer.' '
September aj. taw
Public Notice is Hereby Given,
the Freemen of the City and County of Phila
delphia, and the County of Delaware, ;hat a gene
ral election will beheld on Tuesday the eleventh day
' of Oikobet next. —The ele&ion to be opened between
the hours of ten o'clock in the forenoon, and one
o'clock in the afternoon.
When the freemtinof the City of Philadelphia, arc
to meet at the State-hoitfe in the fa'd eity, to ele<sl'
Six Representatives far faijl city in General AfTem
bly,
One Representative for said city in the House of Re
presentatives of the- United States.
Twenty persons for members of the Common Coun
cil.
Twelve persons for members of the Selefl Com
mittee.
The Freemen of the City and County of Philadelphia
t« eleiJl
One person for Governor
Two persons for Qoroners
One person for County Commissioner
The Freemen of the County of Philadelphia, to
ele<2
Six Representatives Cor said County in General As-
Tembly.
One Representative for said county in the House* of
Representatives of the United States.
| The Freemen of the City and County of Philadel
phia, and County ®f Delaware, to ele«
One Senator for the State
The Freemen of the townOiip of, the Northern Li
berties are to hold their'eleftifln at the town-house in
Second Street continued, above Coats's Street.
The Freemen of the townfoips of Germantown,
, Roxborough and Bristol, are to hold their eledlion at
the Union' School House in Germantown.
The Freemen of the townfliips of Oxford, Byberry,
Lower Dublin and Moreland, are to hold their election ,
at the house of the late John Barnfley in Bufsletown, in ■
the townihip of Lower Dublin.
And the Freemen of the Diftrirt of Southwaj-k, and
the townfliips of Moyamenfing, PaiTyunk, and King
feffing, are to hold their ele&ion at the State-House in
j the City of Philadelphia.
The Coiiftables of each Ward, Diftrifl, &c. are to
hold their eleflion, in the different diftri<ss to cboofe
their infpedlors for the ensuing year, and to give their
attendance at the time and refpeilive places.
Sept, 26. JQHN BAKER, Sheriff.
*** The Eleiflers of Chester county are requested
to meet at Hunt Downing's, in Eaft-Caln township, on
Friday, the 7th day of Oiiober ensuing, to forip a
ticket for the ensuing eleflion.
September 11, 179 ft.
*** The Inhabitants of the county of Chester are
requeued to meet at the house of Abraham Marshall, 1
in the township of Weft-Bratlford, in said county, on
the 7th day of Oflo'r.er next, in order to confah'on a 1
general tickst for the ensuing eleflion. .
September m, 179 ft.
m
><
FOR SALE,
By N. and J. FRAZIER,
No. 95, S. Front-street,
Prteie Boflon Beef, in barrels.
Georgia Cotton.
Carolina Rice and Indigo.
Sherry and Teneriffe Wines, of excellent quality.
Ravens Dl»ck.
Indio BaadannoV
Sewing Silks, various colours.
CeSahs and Gurrahs.
Sspt. 17. US4W.
For sale by the lusTcr;bers,
IN PENN-STREET,
13© quarter Chests frefh Hyson Tea;'
100 ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing small tea setts of 4*
pieces;
400 pieces Bandanoes.
Willings y Francis.
January 30 tt&f
FOR SALE.
PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND GIN, of the firft qualities in, Pipes.
FRAUNCES and VAN REED,
Brokers and Commiflion Merchants, No. 63,8®. 3d St.
Who discount approved NOTES of hand.
N. B..Aij APPRENTICE Wanted.
• September 14. rr.wf
~ THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By W. YOUNG, MILLS and Son,
Corner of Second and Cfjefnut Jireets,
Price 11 1-j cents,
The Prelident's Address
To the People of the United States,
INTIMATtKG
The resolution he hat si rmed to decline being considered
among-tne lrcnCu r of those ou,. a vHoice is to
be made", at tile cniuir.g Sicilian of a Prcfidt/it oi the
United States.
Sept. 20. ws6
Great is Truth and mufi prevail.
.
JUST PUBLISHED,
Andfor sale at No• 41 Chefnut-Jireet by J. ORMROD,
An Apology for the Bible,
1 By R. d. d. f. s. s.
Bijhop of Landaff, isfc.
- Being a complete refutation of Paine's
Age of Rcafon,
Aid the only answer to thp Secoad Part.
Auguit 3c. dtf
THIS DAT IS PVBLISHED,
By W. Young, Mills and Son,
[iPrice s©€ts» in boards, 62 i~z neatly bound]
An Apology for the Bible,
In a series of Letters, "
1 AddreiTed to Thomas Paine, author of a book entitled
The Age of Rcafon, fart the second, being a'l in- '
i>efligati»n of true end fabulous ti>co/i'ry.
By K. WATSON, D. D. F. R. S. Lord Bishop of
Landaflf, and Regius Profeffor of Divinity
F in the U liver fit y of Cambridge.
' Sept. 16. t>j&f6 '
' India Tamboured Muslins.
A small, handfsme assortment of Muslins,
viz.
Fine tambov.red Malda and Santipere Muslins, various
patterns and prices.
Plain 6-4 Jaconet.
Corded and cross-barred Muslin Shawls.
1 Ditto ditto ,6-4 and 4-4 Dorcas.
Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarse.
Japan Muslins, and \
A few pieces extraordinary fine Long Cloths.
10* iALt BY
Thomas Tingey t
No. 131, South Third-f: rpct.
Sept »«. tutf&f
TO BE SOLD,
That Neat and Convenient House,
WHBREIN the ftibfcriber now lives. There are t«ur
rooms on a floor : the house is two stories high
with a good garret above : under the whole is an excell
ent cellar, with a dry well, in which is a convenient
framed chamber for preserving meat, butter, &c. in warm
weather. Attached to the house is a Stable for three
horses, hay-los:, granary, and carriage-house, a wood
yard paved with stone, and a garden with foil of a fine
quality. An indisputable title will be made to the pur
chaser. For farther particulars apply to the fuhferiber in
Princeton, or. in her absence to Thomas D. Johnson, of<[.
or the rev. Samuel S. Smith.
ANN..WITHERSPOON.
Princeton, Aug 34. -3awtO
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and diftrift of
South war k ,
Published, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIES t
No. 68, High street,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 36 inches square, and has been
graved by one of the firft artists In the city, front a late
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled te a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
July 19 tu&ftf
TAKE NOTICE.
THE fubferiber intends to make application for a re
newal of the following certificate, supposed to be
loft on the passage to England in April 1794 :
Certificate No. 10335, dated 15th November, 1793,
for 1830 dollars and 03 per cent, domtftic
debt, on the books of the Treafuryof the United States,
in the name of the Hon'. John Trevor.
ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's.
Philadelphia, August 30th, 1796. *tu<cf6w
WANTED,
Thser JOURNEYMEN BOOK-BINDERS,
GOOD lleady workmen will meet with eonftant em-
good wages ; by applying to JOHN
CURTIS, No. 43, North Fourth-ftreat.
N. B. BOOK-BINDING in all its different branches
executed with neetnefs and dispatch. Public and private
lib raries repaired hi the ceateft and t eft manner.
September 30. , & aw*
A ftsted meeting of the Pennfylrania Sqcicty
fnr pAimetinp the Abolition of Slavery, See. -.▼ill be
held at the ufnal place THIS EVENING, the 3d
infl. at i o'«loclt. /
Benjamin Kjti, Sec'ry.
, Trcafury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that prop*fals will be rb
ceived at the office «f the Secretary of-the TrealurJ
until 'the «ipiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for tic ftpply of all ratiohs which may he required
for the ufe'of thi United States, fram the firft day of
June, 1797, 10 the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, b*th
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftri&s here
after'mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
Pjcfque lfle; at Sanduflcy Lake, and *n Sanduflcy
River ; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin;, at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fo'rt-Harailton ;
Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon ; at Grenville; at
_ PicqUe Town and Loramiet Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Detiancc ; atafay place bslow Fort
Defiance on the Miami River .ta Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at FortMaffac ; at any place from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of the United States on the' Aver
Miflilippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies fliallbe required for any posts or "placcs n*t
mentioned in this notice, all fueh fuppliei Ihall be fur
nilheVl at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hersafter agr«ed *n
between the United States arid the ContraAar.,
The rations to be supplied are to cfcnfift kf 'the fol
lowing articles, riz.
One pound two oubcei of (read «r Hour.
One, pound two ounces *f beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy pr whilkey.
One quart and half a piot 'of fait. A
Two quarts tef Visecar," ( , ,
Two pounds *f Soap, (P cr hundrW rltl<sn »-
-One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be furnilbed in such qtiantities, as that
there ihall at all times during the said term, be fuflicient
for the confumpti*n of the troops at Michilimickinnc, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, far the term of fix months in
advance, and at each of she other ports, for the term of
at lead three months in advance, in good and wbolefome
provisions, if the fame Ihall be required. It is t© be un- J
derftoud, that the Contra<S*r is to beat the expcnce and
rife of iffuirgthe fuppli«6 to the troops at each post, and
that alj lofTes fnftained by the depredations *f an enemy, *r
by means of the troops of the United States, fliall be paid
for at the price of the articii * captur«d or deftroyrd, on
the depofitinns of two or tiaore persons of creditable cha
radters, and the certificate *f a commiflioncd *flicer, af
certainingthe circumstances of the loss, and the amoant
of the ai tides for which compensation (hall be claimed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
Valuable Real Eft ate,
For fait at Auft'mn by Cafptr Thie\l,of Hamburg,
late the property of James and IViUiam Kinnear.
For sale by public auilion, on the 9th day of November
next ensuing, at the sign of Gen. Wa&ington, Wood's
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county, the follow
ing real estate, viz. '
r A TRACT of land containing 455 acres with
XX allowance for roads, called the Purchase,
filiated in Brunfwick townlhip, Berks county, patented,
18th ol Jan. 1788. This trail, of which about 15 acres
are cleared, is p[ good foil, situated on the Tomatfja, *r
Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, on which is
erected a good log dwelling hpufe and flable.
No. 1. A tfaft of unimproved land, containing 484 a
cres, > ith allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented 18th '
October, 179®, situated in Brunfwick townllrip, Berks '
eoanty, foil jood. 1
No. j. A tradl of unimproved land, containing 376 a- 1
cres with allowance, &c. called Hillfburg, patented »Bth ,
October 1790, situation, &c. as No,a.
No. 4. A tract »f unimproved land, containing 318 a
tres, with allowance, &c. patented aSth of October, 1784, i
fituatioh, 3cc,' as No. 2 and j. <
No. .5. A trail of land, containing 168 acres, and 57 (
perches, with allowance, &c. situated in Ifrrunfwick town
ship, Berks county, on Tomagua, or little Schuylkill, 5
taiiles above the town *f Hamburg, on which is eretSted a '
well unifhed two story fquaredlog dwelling haufe, 21 I
feet by 35, within the distance ofieo perch»sfrem a forge, (
with the advantage of a ferry and .public h&ufe; these ad
vantages render this trail very tillable. j
No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, egciofed with apoll
and rail, or board fence, containiig in front, 60 feet, and
in depth i 8« feet, ftibjeft to a ground rent of iff)par an
num. _ j
No 17. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed as no 16,t0
which it adjoins, being of the fame dimenSons, and fubjefl
to t)te fame ground rent,on which is. erc&ed a log stable, •
16 by 18 feet
No. 18. A to'.vn lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No. 17, I
a corner lot, fronting on Main and Schuylkill streets, di- f
menfions the sams as No. j6 and y, above defcrjb-d, sub- (
jefl to iq/o per annum ground rent. On this lot is er- (
edled a large 2 story dwelling house, 45 feet fr. Nt on Maih
street, by 34 feet in depth on Schuylkill ftreem pleasantly
and advantageously situated for a ftorev c
N. B. The above described three town lots will he fold (
feparstely cr together, a.smay bed suit »h« purch: fers.
Conditions ot sale—One third of the purchase money 1
to be paid to the fubfertbers, or either of them in Philadel
phia, at or before the expiration of one month from the
-day of sale, when a deed of conveyance will be executed ; r
, the residue payable in jeqtial payments, at 6 and 1 z months c
■with intereft,the payment whereof to be secured by mort- j
£age on the premises. _ f
James Henderfmi, ~J Afligneesto .
Frctkrick Montmgllin, I the estate of
Thomas Rogers, f" James &Wm.
JofephD. Drinler, ' J Kinnear. j
September 16. m & th.
NOTES LOST. [
WHEREAS two notes drawti by Benjamin Halkell
and George W. Kirkland, dated Bolton, the 24th *
February, 1796, payable to Joseph May, ©r order, in 18
months after date, one for One Thousand Dollars, the ll
*>ther Fifteen Dollars, were stolen with some other papers C
«us % a trunk on the Xancafter road. It is requeued that
any y. 1 fen to whom fhey may be offered for negotiation, j
will notrce thereof tp the ftibfcriber.
OARREIT COTTRINGER.
Sept. 30. ttstf
B R A N by, b
OF Ift and 4th prpof, ind coual in quality to that import-
cd fjom France, may be I.ad of the fubfciiiicr as h-.6 Diftil
lcry, No. 115, Story or New-ftrcet between Tbi.'d and n
ytHitih-ilreets. where the public, 'upon application, may *
;uclge 't' tbemfelvts, and will find it an object weH worth J
V"Kir aurnTion. i
Kand GIN i» afty qiiantity. for exportation or home t)
confump'.icn, a»d of fjpciior quality—by
* ■ Thomas Cane. n
P S RYE, MALT, BARLEY, a>,<! MELASSES, will
be purcUaftdr or in cxrl..uijc for spirits, upon appli- -
caticn as above. Alio any q .jiuity ot Chret or othyr wine '3
lit lor ctiftiilation. s , . _ CI
i7f<6- M4W ai
W A X T E JD,
/in APPRENTICE to the Parting Buftnefs. C
Enquire atthis OlF.&e. ,\ug $ tl
? List »f Pgizss and Blanks in the JVafklngter'
Lottery Ng. 1.
1 *4th Day's Drawing, Sept. 24.
■A 7*. Dth. Nt. Vols, . Ac. Dots. .AY Dais.
30a i« 15298 ®49j6 10 3843 a
' i B S '• 4*B «st®4 »• 39 '«a
*84 iC 6 25J 183 1
146? to 021 374 to 1557 o
713 I*l £8 t • 793 569 "
i» *5°4 >98 974 '• '
655 34 l »• 98 3 785
J «3» >• 361 4S'S« 4®6ij
f 3473 553 27°®9 7«® «•
1 5°9 It 930 319 4146 a
4479 i 7006 5 6 5 676
t 54'5 •• 252 1° '8033 7*9 >•
, §«S 37 s *»»?» 9^9
ClOj I* 418 409 16 982
!' +>° 1® 743 4'3 10 4"73
J . ®44 to >8045 ybi !• 43061
7*5 10 »4* 8°553 H <?*
7°44 '• »94°* <° 31*58 fBo t*
. *•»> 459 '• 588 «o
1 3«74 779 3» a ®B *18
476 880 788 to 44101
7*4 9«t »• "88j rt 571
7*7 to ioto 3 9 ,6 593
75 l *«7 33'58 861 t*
'•»>! 433 V 5 459"
•8b 21099 100 231 46143
114*6 173 i* 3441 t J« 341 i*
514 !'• m'4l BS7 681
9 5 4 54® 97 s 68 3
iaai» 726 i* 35665 fit 5*
59a 755 737 t«- 862
8«5 857 852 t* 47748 1*
984 )• 2]o§B 9(9 1« g23 IO
'J47' 5 43'9 36274 4 8# 49 10
14008 359 «83 *»5
t>«7 10 68j 37*28 495®°
15031 itg jo ll*
'94 79* 20 < 748
•sth Day's Drawing—Monday, September 26.
JV». Z>,/i. N.. jO»Ar. A r o. DS/a at,. A/,,
t*g 10 12708 10 « 5 7 5 1 391(8
4°4 lo *3*l® 16361 10 4«8 5*
598 10 922 » 868 «c 7
791 19 14842 i* 91a lif
'465 l s4®i *8336 4 e si°
3*64 10 9 c« 2gcß6 gij
158 1706 a 1 • in yto8«
a 75 * 67s 140 141 J*
45°' 3? ■ 9°® 799 6«r
77S »• 18486 -gj'
57'4 7*7 30080 * 4a S
6279 >° «9°oi 3,7,5 '
35® i°7 »» 32468 to 643 !•
479 10 494 i3sl2 <3048 10.
7652 10 648 to 544 «,9 2*
9'4 954 . 15719 1 <4489 lo
B*l4 2*795 j JO
9454 10 881 36464 <IC4
5 'J "*'* 967 237
,BO " 943 37121 43 o
789 21967 ,8, I 0 ,^ ss ,
ll>4l 10 220J8 >• 38265 1* 675 ,
4® 1 7i 6 *5 3*4 4"4®
847 1304s 679 392
863 »4°4> 984 53® 1
Errors in the lift of the, soth Daya Drawing— 3 8ag*
ftisuld ke 10 dollars; 45.333 a blank;
n M)lf ,„ M „
. COMMENCEMENT. \ '
PRINCETON, September 28.
Thii d»y bemgiht annivsrfary of the conmence- 1
ment in the college «f New Jersey, the loari of
trustees and the faculty of the cellege met the fe- 1
ni®r class at 10 o clack in the afternoon, in the
public hall, from whence they u«m (fe prpceflian to- (
the church. , ?. 1
The business of the day was introduced with
prayer by the President—Then followed the exer-* '
cifea of the young gentlemen wh» w.cre candidates !
for degrees.
1. A Latin salutatory oration on the fupCriority '
of man, at Tufceptible of improTemeiit, «ver the J
brute creation—by William Gallon, of North- 1
Carolina.
2. An Engli<h salutatory oration on the necessi
ty of energy in the Executive of the United States, '
"—by Philip C. Pendleton, of Virginia. 2
3. An oration on the lotc os-same—by Mofcs 1
J. Cantine, of New York. t
An oration on the ilnpohcy of sanguinary
punilhmentt—by John Fitzgerald, of Virginia. 1
5. A debate cn the following qucftion Are £
brutes in any degree poffefled of a faculty of rear
ion M. Berrien, of Georgia, iefpoadent
George Barbir, of New-Jersey, opponent—Ceorge f
C. Ludlow, of New-York, replicator. f
6. An oration on our attachment to the place 1
of our education—by Joseph Littlejohn, of North. .
Carolina. ■ —™
7. An oration on the duties of a citizen by
Nathaniel Venable, of Virginia.
8. A debate on the following question—l. che
mtftry a science fufcep ible of clear principles and I
ought it to form an dfcntial part of public educa
tion ? Trench M'Mullen, of Delaware, refpoiid
eut William Anderfon, of New-Jerfcy, opponent
—John Starks Edwards, of Contiedlicut, repli
cator.
_9. An oration on despotism— by Wilhelmus
Eltinge, of New-York. f
10. An oration on the excellency of the Ame- ti
rican governments—by Ifaae Lee Guian, of North
Carolina.
11. An oration on the following question, viz, u
On the principles ol the law of nations, is priva
teering a jultifiable mode of h»ftiliiy_by William t
Gatton, ot Nortn Carolina. c
12. An curium on M. La Fatettf, by Elias c
B. Caldwell, of New-York. t
The degree of batchelor of arts was then con- h
ferred upon the young gentlemen above mentioned, c
and upon Henry A Well, Benjamin Beaubien, Ro- h
bert M. Forfyth, John Moody, Henry W. Og
den, and Joseph Reed, of the fame class. b
M«flVs. Joshua Maddox Wallace, Charles Ten- h
nent, Charles W. Hatris, Nichplas Van Dyke, o
Jam<?» Gibfon, Aaron Condift, and John Henry o
Hobart, alumni of this college, were admitted to
their degree of matter of arts. t'
Naihao Cole, A B. in Queen's college, was ad- t
mitted ad cuna'cm in this college. I
George Scott, A B. in the university of Penn- b
fylvania, and Ebrnezer Grant, A. B. in Queen's tl
college, were admitted to the degree of mailer of b
atts. w
Jofiah Qut'ncjr, Esq. A. M. in the college of t;
Cambridge and of Yale, was admitted adeundem in fl
this college. : £
n' The degree of dodlor cf divii.ity was conferred
on the Rev. Themtts Reed, of the.state of Dela
ware, and on the Rev. Andrew Fuller, of
Britain.
The decree of doctor of laws was conferred on
the-honorable William Smith, member of Congress
xor So'tith-Carolina, and on the honorable Fiiher
Ames, member .of Coßgrefs for the Rate of Maf
~ faehufetu.
The valedi&ory oration on the profpeft oT the
universal exteufion of liberty, science and religion,
was then pronounced by Robert M. Forfyth, of
Georgia ; and the exercise* of the day were olofed
with a prayer by the president.
On the evening preceding 1 the .commencement,
young gentlemen, Joseph Allien, James
Clark, Heniy W. Edwards, Benj arain ). Hop.
kins, Peter Le Conte, Cliarl«s F. Mercer, John
Stoops and John Vaneleve, delivered orations.
BOSTON, September' 24.
A dinner wasyefterday given by a number of the
moil refpc£tahle citixetis, to his Excellency Citizen
Adet, French Minister, near the United States.—
At which were drank the following toasts :—
J. The President.
2. The Republic of France—The energy ot
her councils—the liberality of her policy, and the
unparalelled splendor of her arms.
3. Tha Vice-President and Congress of the Uni
ted States.
4. .The Governor and Commonwealth of Mas
sachusetts. ,
5. The Minister of Franee near the United
States.
[1 he Minister here took eccafion to make the
following pathetic address to the company ; " The
marks of friendftiip with which yon overwhelm me,
1 receive, not so much on my own account, as on
that of the cation I have the honor of represen
ting—whilst I teftify at this moJnent the extreme
fatisfaftion I feel in finding-myfelf beside those ci
tizens who firft raised the standard of liberty on
this continent, and who* have knownTo well how
to defend it — I feir.e the lame inilant to aiTure you
of the affeflion I bear to the Republic of the Uni
ted States, being assured that the Americans will ex
ert every effort to cement-with the people of Fiance
ah union, formed under the aufpicies of vidtory,
and which the bleifings of liberty will fruin day to
day covfolidatc.
* Being near Gq-j. Adam, and Gen. Lincoln.
6. The 'Batavian Republic— May the united
▼oice of her citizens soon give (lability to her go
vernment and perpetuity to her liberties.
7. Uninterupted Peace and Friendlhip between
the three great Republics.
5. The Powers friendly to the United States.
9. The Columbian Fair. 1
10. Our University and all sources of informa
tion.
11. The liberty of the press and the sacred right
of private opinion.
12. Commerce—Mjythatof the United States
be asextenfive as interesting.
13. Agriculture—That source of independence
and palladium of freedom.
14. The Arts and Sciences—Those lumiraries
of national glory--Mayxhcy-hg
new fplentfor to the weilern constellation.
15. The Temple of Freedom—May its Portals
be the Pules, its Canopy the Heavensand itsVota
ties mankind.
>16. The nations of the globe—May their en
lightened policy, unclouded wisdom and unsullied
jufliee, give peact, liberty and happiness to all the
world.
VOL UNTEERS.
The American, French and Batavian Republics
— May they, by the virtues which they praiftife,
and the happiness which they exhibit, attach all na
tions to thecaufe of social liberty.—Liberty—mav
the mirror of troth be her JEgis, and the hydra of
falfe politics her Medusa's head.—May the Buck
ler of freedom cover the opprefTed,and her fpearbe
emblazoned in humbling the opprefTor.—Peace to
the scntendijig nations of the earth—May the
flames of War serve but to light the calumet "of
P c2< f* —A" mankind—May the exalted virtue of
patriotism itfelf be finally loft in universal philan
throphy. /
. /
CO NT TNUJTIOK OF
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
By the ship FANNY, Captain Braine, arrived at
New-York, in 49 days from Greenock, and the 1
ELIZA, Captain Wilson, from London.
I. CONSTANTINOPLE, June 10.
A conspiracy has been made to dethrone the
sultan ; and fediiious writings have been polled up
in the mofejues.
The camps in <he neighbourhood of Adrianople ,
am&unt to 300,000 men, with a so; midable train
x>f artillery, exem'fed in the European way.
The Ottoman squadron, cor.fifting of 6 ships of
the lice, 2 frigates, and a corvette, is not to be
commanded by c?pitana bey, or sice-admiral ; the
captain pscha himfelf will command, who now
thinks himfelf fufficlcntly firm in the good graces of
his royal mailer, to venture an absence from the
court, and fail into the White sea, regardless of ,
his domeflic enemies
7. he French ambafiador found His court infultcd
by an omission of the captain paeh a , who , when |
he l.oifted his flag, and, out of compliment, ihofe ,
of all the principal maritime powers of Europe
omitted thareeremony only to the flag of France'
Verninac piefented a very spirited memorial upon' i
the subject, which thS minister of Kate afTetfed to
treat with levity > but finding it insisted on by the I
French ambassador, the Ottoman Porte declaimed !
by the admiral himfelf, any intentional difrefpedl to ,
the republic, and ordeied the captain 0 f the (hint*
be pot in irons. The-Trench amb.fTador '
went lumfrff on board to, keg .he captain', Ijben.- i
tion, and he was falutedl with 9 guns by the * hole '
fleet, which betog unusual, furnifhtrd a rctu-r of
jealeufy to the other atnbafiadurs.
Ed The Allele lqusdron is equipped completer in
a- the European stile. The commander himfeW 14 not
it- acquainted with his dedication, not being to open
' his hi» difppjchcs till he arrives at the Dardanelles.
>n j It is imagined that he will either remain in the Ar
tfs I chipelago, to exa<*l the annual contributions of the
er i (lands; qr he may be ordered 011 feme expedition
if- j agaiuft the rebel pacha of Acri, who has extorted
i great sums of money from the fahjt&s of the Porte,
lie «f which, in the present jundlure, they hive great
i), need. What particularly points to this obj-dt ij,
>f the quantity of land and ordnance ammunition,
:d which it would n«t be neceflary to fend on bo*rd a
fleet destined only to crsife in the Archipelago,
t, Councils ef state fit hers frequently and long, tip
es on •ccaliou of a family alliance between Russia and .
p. : Sweden, either concluded or ready 10 be so, which
in hat deranged the interest of this empire extretnely
—we having teckuned upon the completion of the
treaty of subsidies opened lad year with that power.
Another obje£ of icfle&ion is, the progress of the
war between the Ruffian*-and Perhain, uniformly
in favour of the former power : also the affuranca
that the Poles were disposed to make a new and vi
~ goretis reliftancf, with the aid of the Turks, which
would certainly be given, If the negeciations were
j. completed with other powers—events which cannot
fail to operate this most important changes in the I
politics of the Ports.
. The Cenfeur, French frigate, is failed for the
Archipelago, to cruise againfl the enemv, which
P indeed (he may e;tfily do, there being no Euglifh
(hip ef war there at prcfent. The Mai-efe make
, us pay dearly for the veflcls we captured belonging
to that state.
»
e ITALY, July 6. «
e The French pr/ivateers, which swarm in the Me
diterranean, having greatly deranged the trade of
that sea, twenty (hips have been fitted out at Corsi
ca, and the Viceroy has offered a eonfiderable re
ward forcveiy French privateer bißugut in. Se.
ven have already been taken.
Lorretto, in the Pope's territory, is already oc
cupied by the trench. Thcrc~sTid at Aucona, they
have seized all the valuables, and sent the heavy
ordnance against Mantua. The Pope is to cede
Avignon for ever to France.
The large English magazines, which the French
found at Leghorn, are worth many millions.
CARLSRUHE, July ,5.
Ext raft of a le'.ter from the Head Quarters of the
I army .of the Rhine and Moselle, at ifarlfruhe.
" The inhabitants of this fine city having learnt
that the Auftiians, after an obHinate* conflidl, had
1 101 l their intrcnchni\fnts near Raftadt, fupplicaiing
them to spare their eity, and assuring them thaf the
Princes Castle and Court (hfluid be at their dispo
sal, even to remove thither the sick and wounded,
on account of the good air it affords ; these offer*
have been and the head quaiters are eila
bli/hed, and will remain there till the furreoder of
the f»rt 1 esses of Manheiir, and Philip/burgh.
" It appears that the Freach have matie a gene
ral attack on all the Aufttian intrenchments be
tween Heiderg, Winfen, and Philiplburgh. A
dreadful cannonade began yesterday aiternoon in all
those diredlions • it laded till very late at mVIiL. &
~ ml icwt-weh 1111s morning ; a great number of wag
gons with wounded French and Auftrians arrived
here, which induces us to believe that the former
have carried the intrenchments.
" P. S. This moment ail Imperial Commiffiry
and a Courier are conduced hither, decorated with
the double faced eagle (embellished with black and
yellow ribbands, the emblems of pain and giief ;.)
they comefrrim the head quarters of the Archduke
Charles, with difpatche» for Citizen Barthelemi,
' Ambassador of the French Republic at Bade."
t .
; FRANKFORT, July 18.
' Dcfertion is general in the Aullrian army. With
' in these thret days more than 2000 men have fur
; r s" dcred 16 tbc The ; S giment of royal
ALemand, which they fay had obtained its difmifli
' on, has defertcd in great part with arms and bacx.
, E»Re.
r . P'f e ' c<^or Palatini has re-demanded the troopt
he had with the Austrian army.
July 19.
Bonnard, general of the division of reserve cf the
army of the S.mbre and Meufe, to ike magiC.
trates of the city ef Frankfort.
" 'Head Quarters, Frankfort, July g.
give you advice, gentleman, that in enfe
quence of the will of the general in chief, Jourdan,
you will have no req Ul fitions to fulfil, beyond thufe
. signed by the cammiffary in chief of the said army
I infarm you also, that nobody will force you
to receive mandau : good will (hall be the rule of all
our operations.
(Signed) ,« BONNARD."
■ A magistrate as the eity Frankfort t. hi, fellow
citizens.
The commandant of our city, M. Darnaud, W
tranlmuted to us several papers, of which we have
theught proper to communicate to ycu the follow
• J', cmsD > j?" hlve the complaifaßce
no to deliver any billet for lodging, without a iye
ctal order being prefentcd to you, sig ne d by me or
; c.n.en Muffchot, whole fignL re iu
my abii nce, will be valid. ,
2 " Y ° u are quelled to publish 2B d Sick up
chiefly in the public squares, coffee-houfes and ''a'
verns, the order not to be received after the ret e
any penons, either soldiers or bL, g i„ g t0 ES
my, under any pretence whatever : you will be I
lporifible for the disorders committed after this hour.
3. No inhabitant of ti )c city, whoever he be,
p,e,cne "
hav 4 e Jmni? 11 , 13 ! me ?]l whq
lcaft inf-lf f" t °r l|j1|j '° r w,lo ' bavf icceivej the
east mfdt from a fold,er, or any P „fon belo„ K ,„.
I" ttm r m : ei, ! S;. aßd hsi - ai ™ ii,a " Lc *° ne
In communicating to our fellow citizens the pood
intentions of the French geoera!, we enga^fhem
h«f 'T r U 'T IO fsCOnd thcrj ' 0.Ur.0 avoid
r eqU ; !IC ," that from tLs
"V.uft effenre 0 f whlch tfcf y m yi. 1. 1
CAPITULATION
5> Of the city of Frankfort, at present occupied by
the imperial troops, between M. the baro* dc
Brady, oolonel in the emperor's ftiyic*, invested
with poweis by the count de Wartenfleben, ge
neral of artillery, commander of the Anftrian
army on the Lower Rhine; and the general of
divilion, Kleber, commander of. the left wing of <
the French army of the Sambte and Meufe, au
thorized by the, reneral in chief Jourdan, ftgncd i
at Bornheim, z«th Meflidor, 4 th year of the ;
French Republic. I
Art. I. Dating from the moment of the figna- :
tine of the conditions here announced, there (hall
be an armistice of 48 hours between tie two impe- i
rial and French armies upon the two banks of the I
Kentz, which (hall serve for a line of demarcation, ;
and from i's source in theMfjn,. tn.titf fuiirre of 1
the Mein rn-thr Rhine—Granted.
Art. 11. At the expiration of the forty eight t
hours, the ge«ersl of artillery, count of Warten- 1
flcben (hall withdraw the Imperial troops from the
city ot Frankfort, and (hall convey them to the
left bank of the Mein.
Rep. At the expiration of the forty eight hours t
the troops of the Republic (hall, immediately tak». '
poffcfiion'of the gates of Saxenluufeii, vvhich shall '
not be given up until ;he rear of the Auitrian co- '
lumn (hall have entirely quitted the city. t
Art. 111. The garrison at prcfent in Frankfort c
shall carry with it its artillery and ammunition, they 1
fiiall go out with their arms and baggage—Rep.
Granted.
'Art. IV. The property of the inhabitant! (hall
be refpe&ed and secured; no pynilhrnent shall be <
iqflided, no reproach shall be made to the inhabit- r
ants for their conduct in former periods—Rep. The <
inhabitants shall rely upon this refped upon French
generosity, the sentiments of which they will find I
in the proclamation of the general in chief, Jour- S
dan to the inhabitants of the right bank of the 1
Rhine ; a proclamation of which Col. Brady will 1
be pleaied to distribute some copies to the inhabit
ants. _
The capitulation was signed by the two parties at
*' fevtn in the morning of the abovementioncd day. J
(Signed) The Baron de BRADY, F
Colonel of the regiment of Murray, f
KLEBER, J
Commander of the left wing of the '
Sambre and Meufe army. F
Conformable to the original.
PAJOL. n
Aid de Camp to General Kleber.
BOLOGNA, June 25.
Ofl the 19th inft. about ten in the .morning, it
was that the French, under the command of Gen.
Angerau, entered this city. A corps, confiltingof
KJOO men, took possession of the town and garri
son, in the name of the French Republic. The
army were encamped at the distance of one mile.—
Buonaparte and Salicetti arrived next day, and dif
mtfTed the papal garrison.
Buonaparte, after a severe reprimand for having
ordsred a young Piedmontefe to be put to death ori
a charge of revolutionary principles, rppriffd the
Cardinal Legate, M. Vincttti de VidVi, that his
ferviees coirtrT He difpentel'Vrith, ordered him to
depart for Rome. This order was instantly obey
ed by the cardinal.
On the 20th, the senate ifTned a manifeSo, de- ' ,
elaring that the city of Bologna was permitted by
the commander in chief of the French armies to
resume their ancient rights and privileges, that the
legiflattve and executive authority was veiled whol
ly in the senate, who fhou'd exercise it under the
controul of the Republic of France, that the se
nate was ready to reinstate in their refpedtive offices £)
all that were invested with the administration of tlw
civil and criminal jurisprudence, and that they re
commended to the representatives of the city of c ],
who had for time immemorial, 0 {
been an appendage to Bologna, to hasten to recog- bi
size them and ratify the union. ji,<
The senate has also published an edict, enjoining a
the people peremptorily to deliver up all their fire- t h
arms to the French Commissioner, or tq the agenjs ¥0
aypointed by him. nc
The French are (till inpofTefTion of the principal w ]
officts, for the tranfadtiun of national bufirtfs, re j)
however, the officers in their fituattons
for the accommodation of tha public". About 6
o'clock, upwards of a thoufaud French loldiers ap- R
peared in different parties on the principal parade, tri
In a few minutes the Swiss guard marched" under *M
arms from the palace, and ranged themfelyes in or
der among the French. The garrison of Bologna
next advanced, and arranged themselves so as to be
quite ftirrounded by the French troops. They now th
laid down ;heir arms nid ftlrrendered themselves pri- m
foners of wnr to the French republic. th
On the22d in the afternoon were affixed on the v e
front of the national palace, the arms of the French nc
republic, quartered with the arms of Holland, foi
3 he arms of the pope had been previously removed
from al] ptiblie and private edifices. The papal
garfifon marched out, It is said," for Nice; but the
bands.of muficiar.s, being national, were permitted
*0 remain.
Bi
PARIS, July 25.
Ihe corvette Ih.p, l'Affemble National, v fed
y a Eutifh frigate, was run on shore * j ear the mouth
«f the river Fieguier,- and is loft-, with a part of her do
crew. M
general of brigade,' has informed the th
directory, that 720 chouans, in the diftrift of Av
ranclic,, j)av ( c laid down their arms, and that fume inl
(mall bands only remain unsubdued, who village and ».¥
impoU- contiibutioiu.on the country people. at
rp ■ J"') 1 2 7- 111:
*le Lireftont have apprehended the principal fb<
Naders of the inhlrgents in the camp of Crenelle ; tr.t
% iSo and were to be led from one eri
brigade to another, but they have all tfcaped.cx- dct
cept 30 of them, to Veifailleß, of
, ' do
MARSEILLES, July »<?. ht
To Citizen Fov/ulle, the xldr.
a 1 (.Hi wrtiiijr with anguidi, i announce tc bit
. ?«», dear tnend, that ycftetUay vrai to our unhap co
%
py city, a day of horraf a fid dcfolation. Every ho
by nell citizen expected that his lad haur was arrived,
de 111 a few words, the following affairs occurred :
ed The hangmen assassins, See. all profiting of the
je- amnesty, armed, like the robbers they are, ia bands,
an went into all the fe&ions, where they eut down all.
of who did not fly. They aflaffinated eight or nine (
of citizens, and mortally wounded about 30.
iu- In the number of the mardered, is the unhappy (
ed son of Bourguignon, whose father and brother, as (
he you know, were guillotined. Savon is reported to
have affaflhated him, by stabbing him in the back,
ia- as he went out of his fedion, No. I.
all In the afternoon these infamous wretches, march*
>e- ing always in bands, and vociferating against every
he thing good, passed a door inhere fat an old man,
m, aged 74 years, whona they also assassinated. As I
of h«*r, his name was Fabric*, a paioter by profeffton. ,
In the fuburts the fame horrors have been commit- !
ht ted. At Mazargues alone, two citizens werekil- ;
n- led, and eight or ten wounded.
be
be HAGUE, July 12. !
Our whole fleet is now completely fitted out, and I 1
rt the combined English and Ruffian squadrons fe«m- '
lat ing to have quitted our coafls, it will fail with th< '
ill firft favourable wind from the Texel. By the '
o- time of its departure it will be twenty fail flrong ;
has on its courfc other ships will join it. Its real
rt destination is unknown, and admiral de Winter will
■y have the command.
p. I j
AMSTERDAM, July 1. 1
ill This city, as well as Rotterdam, has protested !
j e against the mede of p3ying the contribution of 60 I
t- millions out of the annual income of each indivi
<]e dual of property. 1
:h Such has been the number of wounded in the 3
,d late anions upon the Rhine, that molt of the fur- '
ir- geons and at Brussels have been sent c
>, e pod to Luxemburgh, Maeflricht and Liege,
ill \ _ July 7. _ j
It- The following proclamation has been issued at Pe- 1
terfburjj.
at "We count Alexander Nikolazen, do hereby f
give direiftions for the immediate release and de- \
partureof all Dutch vessels, together with theirre- 1
y, fpeftive crews, on which an embargo was laid last a
year; but we also prohibit by this proclamation '
-the entry of any vessel from that country into our
~ ports, and fulh as do arrive (hall be treated the 1
fame as French ships. In other refpefts they shall
not he molested. , a
r " The original was signed by her Majbfly. i
" CATHARINE." '
;t Philadelphia, .
1. 1
f MONDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 3, 1796. e
I
( Says a Correspondent, \
Mr. Volney, the celebrated French author and
traveller, left Lexington in Kentucky the latter ]
part of August, on a tour through the, Northern f
country, to the Lakes, See. &c. We ;ire inform- |
ed that the fcbjedt of this gentleman's journey is, to
observe how the wind Mows in the Wejlern Country.
From a Ctrrefpondent.
We feel h?ppy in announcing to the pbblic, the
arrival o f the celebrated Eqneflrian, Mr. Rickelt'c
juidlis company from the Eafl ward. ■ The citizens s
of Philadelphia will now have it in their, power of
cr.joying, the rational and manly enteitainments of
this unparellelled company.
From the Bojlon Chronicle of Sept. 26.
IVe hear that Mr. SeVvnll is chosen for the Third
Middle, and Mr. Skinner for the Fitflt Wettern
i Diftritts. S
From the Aurora.
- The Boston Chronicle aferts that Mr. Skinner is
chosen for Congress from the First Western Diftrift
> of Mafiachufetts. Our readers will recollect, that
by the account given in the Stockbridge paper,
Mr. Williams appeared the fuccefsful candidate by
• a majority of 30 votes. It will also be recollected
that the Editor of the Stockbridge paper did not
• vouch fqr the accuracy of his statement. Mr. Skin- ®
ncr was the Republican candidate. Mr. Sewall,
who is undoubtedly chosen for the Third Middle
Diftrtft, we underltand is also a republicans o
» N. B. That Meffis. Skinner and Sewall, are /
R.epublicar,s, and Federal Republicans too, is a c
. truth well known to the eledlors of both Diftri&s. j
•Mr. Williams is also a Federal Republican. ri
lilj-. Ffnno, \
ing. my name in a lifl of candidates for
the Scled} Council, " agreed upon by a number of c
my Fellow citizens met on the 27th ult."' I, will V
thank you to inform thofe'gentlemen, that it will be
very inconvenient to me to attend to the duties an-' g
ncxed to it ; and request that they will nominate
some other perfan in my place. I am, Sir,
Your molt obedient Servant,
ROBERT SMITH.
Monday, Oftober3, 1796. ■
Mr. Fen no,
Be pleased to publiffi the followiog pxtraa of a <
letter from a gentleman in Virginia, September <
24th, 1796. d
" I have been informed that Mr. Edmund Ran- h
dolph who has lately visited Mr. J-fferfon fays, that
Mi. Jcfferfon will serve in the office of Prcfident of
the United States if eledted." "
It thus appears that Mr. Fauchet was corredily "
informed, -when he fuidvthat Mr. JeJferfon was the "
man on whom the patriots were turning their e\es
as a fuccejor to the President 11 is not impossible s
that fadts hereafter may be developed, which will ir
fhe.w that Mr. Fauchet's declaration was equally
ti.ue, whtn Le said that Mr. Jifferfon forefaw the li
crijis of the 'infurredion and on tint account " pru
dently retired"—lf this he so, what are wcto think
of a late pamphlet, which .imputes indecision and p
dotage to Mr. Adams, ambition and hatred of li- a i
berty to Mr. Jay, indolence and <-8 vardice to Mr. B
Hamilton ; and which at the fame celebrates this l f
pri dent retreat as a proof rlf diffidence, " which "
bhifbes while it rcceivfs the crowning honors of its ,
country."
/ '
BY THIS DAY's MAIL.
BOSTON. September 27.
From LISBON.
Captain Goodingr, who left that port Aug. 12,
informs, that war between England and Spain wis
then generally expe&ed—fome even reported it to
have taken place. The Partuguefe were under
i'ome appreheiifioo of an invasion from the French.
Captain O'Brien, in the United States btig Sophia,
failed from Lisbon for Algiers, August 8.
SPAIN and ENGLAND..
Extract of a letter from Lifeon, dated AngUft TO,
to a refpeftable gentleman in Marblehead.
" As to politics, it is thought the general peace
of Europe is remote; the court of Spain has son
eluded to dispatch a fquadroa of 16 mecTST- war
from Cadiz (their defoliation a secret) ; but to fail
ia company with Richery's squadron of 7 fail of
the line and 3 frigates: and openly gave out, that
they mean to protcdl them. In consequence of
which, the Britilh admiral Mann, was cruis
ing off Cadiz with 5 fail of the line and 3 frigates,
prudently retreated to Gibraltar. The result of
this business, it is strongly fufpefted, will be a rup.
ture between England and Spain."
NEVv-YORK, September 30.
EngMi accounts stats; that there is little lefsthan
seventy millions pi scrip in the hands of the »ri
mnal coßtraftors, of Speculators, or in pawn at
uie bank, which is to be taken up by the public,
and mil ft be purchased before the minister can ex-
obtain a new loan.
In Turkey, great efforts-are making to form a
rtfpe&able navy ; aoo fliips have been launched ;
and the grand seignior has given orders that all
former marine ordinances shall be colletted into a
cade.
By an aft of parliament of Great-Britain, pas
sed at the la (I feflion at the recommendation of the
board ot agriculture, linseed and rape cakes ire ex
empted from duryr These are valuable—the firft
for feeding cattle, and it was supposed by the
board, be imported from the United States
in great quantities—the lnft is found to be ufeful
as manure in many parts of the kingdom, and may
be purchased on the continent.
The French, in attempting an escalade of Man
tua, loft 1,000 men-
The F ench, to punifd the marquis of Spinela, ]
as the author of an infurre&ion in Torquata, an !
imperial fief, condemaed the marquis to be Ihot, 1
and burnt all the houses in the fief, except three '
that belonged to fomc private Genocfe.
What multitudes of men rnuft be slaughtered in
Germany—Eveiy day brings frefh rencounters, and
every inck of ground 13 disputed with obstinacy.
In the battle- at Walmeroden, 5,000 Auftrians were
left on the field.
One' Levein, a Jew broker iriSLon'on, failed
lately for 40 or 50,000 sterling. He was a sub '
fcriber o; £. 110,000, in the last loan of 18 mil- ■
lions.
wi mnimii ill mi
GAfETT E OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST. 1
PH 1 L A V E L P II lA, Oftobsr 3<
ARRIVED. Days
Sloop Eagle, Earl, I Kbode-Ifland 8
CLEARED.
Ship Adraflus, Pease, Hamburgh
Brig Abigail, Babcock, Belfjft
Seven Brothers, Singleton, Kin "Aon
Gra'ccy, Cufhing. 'Hifpaniola
Fame, Churnfide, <j o>
Lavinia, Caffin, St. Thomas
Pragers, Watson, St. Croix
Schr. Harriot, Lucretia, Charleston
Eagle, Johnson, „ do.
Delight, Wiley, Boston
Virginia & Philadelphia Packet, Hallet, N. York
Sloop Nancy, Hill, Richmond
Sophia, Ely, New-York
James, .Jenny, Ed,enton
Mill-River ——, Norfolk
Hunter, Lock wood, Point-Bridge.
ylrriitcd at the Fort.
Brig Lyndeman, M'JLaun, Havanna
PitormtNCE, September 24.
Thnrfday arrived the brig Polly, captain Bull
ock, in 43 days from St. Übes. He left there the
following American veffcls.—Mary, Huffey ; Fair
Ameriean, Pollard ; Cer s, White ; Ruffian Met
chanty Thompson ; William, Snow ; Pattern,
Bool; Sterling, Foster ; Statira, Edwards; Flo
rer.zo, Chafe; Minerva, Hull ; Charles, Perkins \
Washington, Wardell ; Randolph, Greenough ;
aud Abigail, Wood.
FNTERED.
Ship Rebeca, Phillips, Havannah
Brig Polly, Bullock, St. Übes
Hyde, Robfon, Brest
Sloop Lydia, Gladding, Bristol
, .Sally, Giay, Newport
Lively, Bliss, Philadelphia
Sally, Crandell, New-York
N». 154. 1
Dijirid of Pennsylvania, to tvit :
C /"f—* ~)'T3 E remembered tha; on the 26th dayOfSep
j seal S- 1) tember.in the twenty-'firft year of the Inde-
C W- 1 3 pendence of the United States »f America, A
braham Bradley, junior efthefud Difhiift.hath deposited
in this office, the title of a Map, the right vvhtreOf, he
claim* as author in the.words following te wit,
" Map of the United States exhi iting the situations,
" conftr<9ions & diftanccsof the Poft-Offices, Stage-roads,
" Courses, Ports of Entry and Delivery for Foreign vef
" Ids, and the principal rivers, t
" By ABRAHAM BR <\DLEY, jiAi."
In conformity to the A<s of the Congreis of the United <
Stares intituled An aA for the encouragement of learn
ing by fecunng the copies of maps, charts, and books to
the authors and proprietors of such copies during the
times therein mentioned.''
Samuel CaldiurU t Clerk,
Difirid of Pennsylvania.
'I'he above map may be had ef the author at the General
Pofl-Office, next door to the War-Oflice in Fifth-Street,
and at his koufj, No. 78, corner of Crown Street and
Brewers Alley between 4th and sth, and Vine and Cal- 1
lowhill greets. Prices from 3Jto 5 accord '
ing to the manner in which -they aic Cnifhed. The pro
gress (or aVrivilf anJ departures) of the Mail ou the Main
Lire may be had separate lor ccc-cts.
3- f. iaw6w.
£' - \
At a Meeting of a number of citizens, at M;. DanwOa
dy's Inn, on the 30th instant, it was urianimoufly
agreed to recommend to their fellow-citizens, tke
following tickets, for their support at the.eniuing
Election.
Governor,
Thomas Mifflin. ' ,
Congrtfs,
Edward Tilghman.
Senator,
Nathaniel Newlin, (of Deism-arc Count*.)
JJfembly,
Geerge Latimer,
Laurence Seckel,
Jacob Hilrzheimer,
Robert Wain,
Francis Gurr.cy, '
Joseph Ball.
Sel-cl Council,
_ —Johji_Ca>iiieiiy, -
1 James Read,
f David Jackson,
James Irwin,
Godfrey Haga,
Sam. M. Fox,
Sam. Ceatcs,
Henry Pratt,
John HallcwelJ,
Francis Giimey,
Thomas Cumpfton,
Ebenezer Large,
Commtn Ctuncil,
, 1 John Gardiner, painter*
2 Kearr.y Wharton,
3 Samuel .VT'Lean, ,
4 Conrad Gerhard,
1 5 Isaac Pennington,
6 Anthony Cuthbeit,
7 Wm. Garrigues,
, 8 Benjamin VV. Morris, ■
9 Michael Keppele,
10 Bowyer Brooks,
11 Ben. Chew. just.
1 1 a Caleb North,
13 John Rugan,
*4 Thomas AJlibone,
. 15 Jacob Eckfeldft
16 Thomas M. V\ illing,
17 Jofepli Hopkiofon,
18 Samuel Hodgdon,
19 Walter Franklin,
1 so Philip Odenheimer. '
I Publifhedby order of the Meeting,
JAMES HJDDLE, Chairman.
DANIEL SMITH, Secretary.
At a numerous adjourned meeting of citizens of
1 Philadelphia, held at Litle's tichool-Houfe 011 the 17th
1 September, 1796, the fallowing tickets were unani
, moufly agreed to be supported at' the ensuing general
, ele<£tton»
Thomas Lei?er in the Chjiir.
Governor,
Thomas Mifflin.
Catigrefsi ♦
John Swanwick.
ylJfembly,
John Steinmetz, Samuel Wetherill, fen.
Charles Pettit, Matthew Lawler,
Joseph B M'Kean, Jacob L. Swyler,
SeleH CouHtil,
John Connelly, Joseph Wetherill,
John Dunlap, William Barton,
Stephen Girard, Isaac Pennington,
Wm.Van Piigl, Robert Smith, merchant,
James Sarfliwood, Math»w Carey,
David Jackson, Abraham Shoemaker*
Common Council,
I Andrew Guyer, bookbinder
Caspar Morris, brewer
! Anthony Quthbert, malt-maker ,
William Richards, breeches-milker
, John Porter, physician
Thomas Leiper tobacconist
John Lctchworth, chairmaker,
, Jacob Bright, Saker •
Godfrey Gebler, blacksmith
, Andrew Kennedy, faap-boiler
Mathias Sadler, carpenter
, Benjamin Harbefon, coppersmith
. Bcnj. Franklin Bache, printer
] „ Elifha Gordon, shoemaker
William Rtiih, carver
. John Purdon, (hopkeeper
. John Barker, taylor
Benjamin Taylor, bricklayer
Benjamin Brian, tanner and currier
x James Traquair, stone-cutter
(Signed) Benj. Franklin Bacbr, Sec'ry*
: For Sale,
r 30 Hogftieads of choice New-England
Rum,
• Landing fremthe schooner John, at Vanuiera's wharf.—
For terms apply to No. 71, North Water Street, at the
J head of the wharf. >
» ' Samuel Hodgdon.
oa. i dtf.
1 or e »
i The remarkable fact faililg
SCHOONER LIVELY,
' now lyirg at Hamilton's wharf, bui.t in 1794 by Mr.
t Yard at Kcr.fmgton, of live-oak and red-cedar—her di
l menfions are 68 feet 3 inches length on deck—l 9 feet 6
L inche» breadth, of beam—B feet 4 inches hoh.— and car
ries between 5 and 6oct barrels flour.—The Lively being
■well known here, any further delcfiption of her is unne
ceffary—fuffice it to fay, that she is not inferior to any
veffcl'of her flze in any refpedt whatever—For terms ap
ply to «
EDWARD DUNANT,
No. 149, south Front-flreef.
Who will have lyided on Wednesday molding next, from
on boird the BrigantipeLlßEßT Y, Captain MURPHEY,
at said whirs.
100 Hojh'edds prime Havarlna Mciajfes. _
He has likewise for fdle a few packages ol CALCUTTA
GOODS—Confiding of,
Pungin cloths, humlmms, tickerys. bafraes, coffaes, bar.
har, puNicat and bandanno handkfs. guzenahs, black uffatiei*
I choppa romalls, gkt rahs, patna chintzes, &c. &c. Also,
A quantity of Rhode-lflaod CHEESE, Spermaceti CAN*
j DLES, and a few barrels BEEF.
t Ofilober 3. 6t. *
For Glasgow,
j ' The good trig COMMERCE,
E. Tallman, matter.
»
i Will fail from New-York, the 9th inft. having two
- thirds of her cargo ready to go on board—She is intended
i to return to Philadelphia Very early is the Spring. For
- freight or passage apply to THOMAS SIMPSON,
1 at Samuel Breck, jun'r's,
Oit. 3. 6 Soutn Third-street,
OppcCta Gardeai."Kiis Day is Publifhcd,
Aid Sold by J. ORM ROD, No. 41, Chefr.pt-
Jircet, and WILLIAM COBMETT, oppofitt Ha
Chrijl Churchy
L . , Price only 15 cents, A j
IVaffon's Letters to Gibbon; or
An Apology for Christianity,
In a series of Letters, ]
* Addressed to Edward Gibson, Esq. author of the Hifto- ]
ry of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire. ]
By R. WATSON, D. D. F: R.S. I
Lord Bifhep of Landaff, and Regius ProfeiVor of Divinity
in the Umverfity of Cambridge. I
Like wife, a Second Edition of dir
An Apology for the Bible, e "!
By the f*me celebrated Divine. —
Price 37 1-2 cents.
These Pamphlets are printed to match. To that
they may be bound together—and contain the mofi pow- J-(
erful and convincing arguments ever advanced in favor
of Christianity j together with a complete refutation of cel
Deism and Infidelity.
W. C. HAS JUST PUBLISHED,
The Political Censor for September;
CONTAINING
The Life of Thomas Paine,
And Remarks on the Pamphlets lately 40
published againfl Peter Porcupine. _
September. 30. mwf n
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By Mat-hew Carev, .118, Market-street, ~
A Diflertation on Slavery,
WITH A PROPOSAL '
For the Gradual Abolition of it f 0
In the State of Virginia. to
By ST. GEORGE 7UCKER, Prcfeffor_of Law in in
the Unrverjity of. William and Mary, and one of in
the "Judges in the General Court In Virginia.
" Slavery not only violates the Laws of Nature and 0' 00
" Civil Society, it also wounds the bell forms of gov. rn-
" ment: in a Democracy, where all men are equal, Save-
" ry Is contrary to th<s spirit of the constitution."
\_M.ontefquitu?^
Sept. 29. 6
RICKETS' s
Amphitheatre of Arts*
T O THE PUBLIC. T
IMPRESSED with the most lively gratitude for pift J
favours, Mr, Rickets retuffcs his most sincere thanks
to the people of Philadelphia, for the kind patronage and T
liberal encouragement they have hitherto (hewn hitfl, C 1
and again solicits their attention for the eHfuißg feafoH.
He takes this opportunity of informing the Ladies and d;
Gentlemen of this City, that the AMfarrUEATRE has un- tc
dergose a complete and pleasing alteration since the last ™
1 season, (oq an original plan of his own) so as to make it aI
f erfe&ly convenient for a numerous audience; and or
namented, in the most faperb style, with SCENERY, 0
DRESSES and DECORATIONS, entirely new. w
He afTures the public, that no pains nor expehfe what
ever have been spared, to render itone of the moll beau- t'
tiful places of public ainufement of the kind here or in d
any part of Europe.
The public are further informed, that the Amphitheatre J
of Arts will open on the evening of the loth of October,
1796. The particulars of the entertainments of that a
evening wih te announced in the different daily publica- h
tions. / J. 14 •R. r
September 18. eo. a
New-England Rum, r
In hogfhesds,
Welsh's best Boston Chocolate,' I
And ri
HYSON-SKINTEA, in quarter chests, f,
FOR SALE, BY ii
A. MARpLE.tf ISR.W.MORRISj
♦iJo. 6oj Dock-ftrect.
Sept. 14. ) . eo6t.
Mr. FRANCIS,
(Of the New Theatre) ~
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his I ,
scholars and to the public. Xvlr. Francis intends,
on h> return from Maryland, to open a public aca- :
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He t
flatters himfeif that his attention to his pupils hi- f
therto renders any promises of conducting his future j
schemes on the moll libera! and ftri&eft terms, of pro- j
priety, totally anneceflary.
N. B. Private tuition as usual.
June 3 iav
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of the (hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta ahd Bengal,
CONSISTING OK
A Large and gefieral aflortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins 3
Doreas, isfc. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
!n boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings Francisj
No. 11 Penn Street.
June'B 5
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lit, in Chfcfniit
flreet, between Front and Secortd Itrsets, in which
MeiFff. James Calbraith &/Co. have for many years (and
now Jo) carried on bulinefs.
PofTeilion will be givefitn one montlf, or sooner.
For terms apply td WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April ix. §
Brokers Office, and
commission store;.
No 63 South Third ilreet, oupodte the national'ntw Bink.
SAMUEL M ?R AUNCIiS and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnerihip, under the (km of
FRrtUNCES.iSc VAN RF.F.D, in the business of Brokers.
Conveyancers and CommUfion merchants. They buy and
fell on coramilliou ev<.ry species of llock, note 9 of hand,
hills ol elchange, houses and lands, Sec.
M.oni;v procured Cn deposits, &c. &c. all hinds o'
in the conveyahciilg line, done with neaiuefsand
difrratvh; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the '
most correct tnanner. CoHllant attendance will be given.
Thry Tolicit a share of the public fuvor ; they are deter
mined to endeavou't to <Jj'ferVe it.
N. B 'Fhe utmou l'ecrecy obfci ved.
S UIUtL M. r'RAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REtD.
PhiUd. AUgiift ih 1796. xti&Htf
JOHN MILLER, Jun. k Co.
No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late vefleli from Europe, &c. p
AND HAVE lOR SALE, dy t
A general assortment of GOODS, tuiubie to tlie lcafon— Ap]:
Amonglt which are,
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS, ~
Plain and twill'd COATINGS., _1
Rose ilriped tiu paint BLANKETS,
FLANNELS and BUSES,
HATS assorted in cases,
IRISH LINENS, lni
INDIA GOODS, generally, " on 1
A Conligned Invoice of IRONMONGERY, "V'"
Compriiing a capital aflortment to open a (lore —inclu-
ding Thirty Casks of NAILS. This invoice will be fold "
entire on very, advantageous terms.
September 20. d
Lottery SC
FOR raifmg fir thonfand fix hundred and fixty-fevcn
dollars ar.d fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the. prizes, ind not two blanks to a prize, viz j
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5006
I 1000 1000 "
t 500 JOO
100 lOC©
IQ 100 1000
99 jo 495°
2oa a 5 5 000
JGQO IO 10,000
5 Last drawn numbers ef 1000 dollars each, 5000
1331 Prizes. 44>450
4018 Blanks. \
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45^
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftablilh
mg Wcful Manufactures, the fuperiotendants of the Pat- j
vfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the ,—.
foragoing S«heme to the public, and have direflcd them
to r«fund the money to thwfe persons who have yurchafed „
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets __
in this Lottery.
The lottery hasa<stually commenced dfawing, ?nd will _
continupuntilfmifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes j
may be seen at thfl office ot William Blackburn, No. i>4
south Second street, who willgivelftformation wheic tick- c -
ets may be procured. ,
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796. *
J- N- gumming, 7 I'
JACOB R. HARDEN%ERG,> Miriagers. ;
JONATHAN RHEA, ). vat
atf eo -y-v,
, " fro:
Sanluel Rfchardet, " 6 'i
TJ ESPECTFULLY 'informs the Geirtlemen ihe
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY t^lc
I TAVERN and MERCHANTS G OFF EE HOUSE in the A 1
, city of Philadelphia. l '' r
The Subfcripticm Room will.be furialAved w-th all the w '!
daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- Ls
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the princiip.->l com
mercial citits of Europe—They will be ragulaily filed
h and none permitted to be taken away on any acto'unt. ait<
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creanfs, and e variety 11U1
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrelhments, r "
' will at all times be procured at the bar. t ' lt:
4 Gentlemen may depend on being accommouited with t ' lc
. the choicest of Wiaes, Spirituous L,iquors, and the most
1 approved Malt fromi.ondon and other Ireweries.
The Larder will be supplied with the prime aid earliest are
, prodtiftions of the Season. 1
Large and small Parties, or fingleGentlemer, may be
accommodated with Broakfafts, Dinners, or Sappers, at
. hours jttoft convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regtdarly kepi f6r conveniency, the Billof Fate t9 be had
at thG bar. * ■
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanlihefs, and every other f n '
requisite. 1 3® 1 -
SimuEl Rich a'rdet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at, ( - c
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges ha'
himfelf that nothieg 011 his part (hall be wanting to pre- r:
serve that patronage with whiah he has been so diftinguili- ca >
inglf honored. Ul '
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Treasury of the United States.
NOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are br Q t
may be Creditors of the Uiuted States, for any sums —*
of the funded licit, or Stock, inuring a present intcrtji of fix
lS per centwmper annum.
'» ift, That pursuant to an Ad of Cohgrefs passed on the
' 38th diy of April, 1796, intitledan adt in addition to >11 A ,
e ift, intituled " A:i a6l making further prwvifion for the
■" fupport'of public cradit, and for the redemption of the
e public debt," the said debt or Hock will We reimburfcd and
1- paid in manner foliowLug, to wit. " First, by dividends
" toWmlde on the last days of March, June and Scptem
" ber for the present year, and'from the year one thousand "
" fevetl hundred aad'fiinety-feveu, to the year one thou-
- « sand eight hu>utred 5c eighteen inclufrve, at. fche rate of "
" one and one half p'er centum upOn the oru mal capital.
« Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last diy of
J. «' December ior the present year, asid from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and nineiy-feven, to the year
" one thousand eight hundred and seventeen indufive, at f r
1S " the rate of three and one half per ce.ntfam upon the vri
" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be nia '.e uu the last -
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" drcd and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ale- r>
1 5 " quate, according to the contrail, for the finaj rtdemp
" tion of the said stock." 1 n|
id. Ail diftindioti between payments on account of q
Intend and Principal heing thus abolifhetl by the eftablilh- •
ment of the permanent rule of re'imburfement abovs de
fcribed,Tt has hecome neccilary to vary accardingly the
powefs of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
is eftablilhed for all powers of attorney which may be
— granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BY -THESE PRESENTS, thai
r of
do mate, ronjiituie and appoint
rj my true and laiuful At- 11
torney,fur me, and in tr.y name, to receive tb: dividends lubicb are, :
or fiall ie payable according to law, on the (hers describing the K
stock) Jlaniting in :ny namein the booh of (here describing the u
books of the Treasury of the Cbmmiffioncr of Loans,
where the flack is credited) frun (here mfert the com- v
menceir.cnt and expiration of tithe for which the power of "
L attorney is to COHtinue) \uith poiver also an attorney or aitor* ' v
nics under him, for that purpose to male andjubflitutc, and to do all 1 '
lawful alls reqwfliefir ejftfiing tbeprcmifes, bereiy ratifying and
confirming all that tvyfiiJ Attcs/iey tic bis tr
k. ly do, by virtue bcrecf, >J
D, In Wdntfs hereof, I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal tbe
of day of iil the year
rs, Sc-alid andDelwered
fid in j*refencsj>f\
id, BE IT KNOIVN, that on the day of
efore me perfoncilly lame
o' ivitbin namud and acknowledged tbe above letter of attorney to be f
nd his a£l and dad. a
he' In teflimony whereof I have hereuntofet my Hand and affix- j
:n. r i Seal the day and year last -foiefaid. c
;r - Giyen under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen- j
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to dire&ions (;
fiom the Secretary of the Treasury
SAMUEL MEREDITH, f
of the United States. r
-wVitiJ.
'v ~ ■ ' ': : "
' Turjis-lilancl oalt, 1
FO R SA L E.
Per the {hip American, Capt. Sliallcrofo—•'WiU-te i■>■»- y
dy to difchargt at Kue-Oreet wharf on the 37th liuu— \
Apply to w '
. Jehu Hotlin?[worth & Co. a <
Sept. 23. J tot
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A VVal'.iahie SOAP and CANDLE Manuh tlor>, Gtuate
in a convrnirni part ol the city ; the works almolt new,
on an entirely oritiinil confiru&ion, and built or the Lett
material!, and mav he fit to wmk immediately. Peifms
who wish to purchal'e, ate recjucftcd to apply at No. 2;j,
South Second Street. /
September jo. . * * * 1 .
City ct Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR. THE IMPROVEMENT 0 i THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magflfficrtit } 50,006 dollars, & 7 QQQ
dwciling-houfe, )"A 1 30,000, are $ ' q U
1 ditto 15,000 & tact 25,c0b 40,000 ,i 1(
I ditto 15,000 & caih 15,060 30,000
x ditfo 10,000 & cacti 10,000 20,600 del
j ditto & cash 5,000 ro.opo ;!l
1 ditto 55*100 & cash 5,000 io,uo<o
1 tact prize of io,oOo dr;
1 d«. 5,000 iich, a.'e • 10, coo tlu
10 do. 1 1,000 - - ro,ooo
20 do, 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - » 10,000
aoo do. 50 - - 10,000
400 'do. 25 1 - io,oqO
1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
15,00© do. 10 » - Jiv,ooo
-
16,739 Prizes. —
Blanks.
50,000 Tickcts,, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
t ' Qjj
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of „
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the (.ast drawn .j
---ticket, and the 3G,ooothe last hut one :
Arid approved notes, securing payment in either money
«r prizes, in ten dttys after drawing, will be received fc:
any number not lei's than 30 tickets. „ o
This Lottery will afrord in elegiuit specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in 11'.. City Of Washington—
Two beautiful deilgns are already fel*2ted for the entire
fronts oil two of the public squares; from these prawings
it ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to co:.\.:y I
them, when complete, to the forrunate .adventurers, in
the mannerdefcribed in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deaudion of five per cent, will be mid;: to defray "V
the necessary ejepenfes of printing, icc. and the surplus v
will be made a part of the fund intended for theNatianal ! coj
Usivcrfity, to be erected Within ths city of Viihington. all
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets 3re an
(bid off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days lat
after it is finifhsd ; and ahy priaes for which fortunate ftc
numbers a!e not produced within twelve mbriths after the do
drawing isclofed, are to be confidtrcd as given towards ny
' the funk for the University ; it being determined to fettle ar.
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draW- ov
rag, and to take up the bonds given as security. w
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes, ar
are held by the Prcfidf-nt and two Directors of the Bank ('
./of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a- 1r
. mount of the lottery. "in
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of is
s the late Commiffiohers aflifted in the management of the pj
1 Hotel Lottery are requested to undertike thi ? arduous taik ni
a second time 011 behalf ef the public ; a fuflicie«t nurri d\
J ber ef these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the a:
r friar.ds to a National University and the other federal ob<- la
joils may continue to favor the deftgn. b:
j By accounts received from the diflerent parts of the ht
t Continent as well as from Europe, where the ticket! th
s have been sent for sale, the public ace assured that the iu
. drawing will speedily c*>mmen«e, and that the care and gi
. caKtion unavoidably necessary to insure a lafe disposal of rc
tlu ticket®, has rendered the ituirr suspensiOn indilpenfaßte. ni
SAMUEL BLODGET.
„§, Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; 0 A
James Well & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Oilman, Boston
of John Hopkins, Richthond ; and of Richard Walls
r Cooper's Ferry. co ; -
s i — — .i 1
c JVaTson's Answer to Gibbon.
e JUST RECEIVED,
' Afldfot lale by J. OHMROD, Nb. 4 t, Chefnat-'ftreet,
Apology for Christianity, I
In aso cf Letters, addrejfed t» If
EUward Gibbon, ft
Autkor of ihe Hiitory of the Decline and -Fall of the 01
Roman Empire: . al
,f Bv R. WATSON, d. d. F. k. s. Bifliop of Lapdail". 01
[_ (Price 75 cents bound )
if Watson's Answer to Paine,
e To be had at the lame place. '
r The enemies of Religion are awake ! Let not her
Lt friends Jltep.
'■ Sept. 1. mw&ftf
a ________ _
f VH£ Subscriber, ! living been rcduced in "bis circum t ]
3 " X ftahces, b] r foiUiry misfortunes, and being thereby j,
, nuable to fatisfy his jyft debts, hereby give* notice tojiis v
Creditors and to all pcrfons concerned, that he intends to v
v apply to the General AlTcmbly of Mary land.at their next
c " session to be held on the fiilt Monday of November next.
for the benefit of fan a& ot infolveney.
10 WILLIAM EDMONDSOK
m F.aflon. of .thr otb nionrh, 1706. lawtiftMN
— —
Tobeiold, I
r.i 1 '
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun- .
tyof Glouci'*it, ami ftj.eof Ncw-Jerfey, contain-
i t _ irtg about one hundred and fifty acres ; a fuitablc propor- t
re tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A j
lc ' great part of the arable land is in a high (late of cultiva* (
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover. ,
, s On said plantation there is a genteel two-ilory brick house, ,
n .' with four foams ort a fleAr, and a good dry ccllar under ;
D f the whole ; together with a bam, carn-cribsand carriage- |
r _ houle. The garden is large, and contains a tjood collec ,
ill t/on of the belt kind, as grafted and iaoculated fruit tracs ; ,
" n j the orchard Conltllsof about thre.'hundred grafted app'e- ,
_ trees. Any person inclined to purchal'e said premilcs, may
bi infor-ncd the Ccruis by applying to
& . ANDRiiW HUNTER.
Jg'y 2 9 A
To be Sold,
At No. 128, North Second-Street, and by fever al oj
h the Apothecaries in this City.
TRANSFERS ol the right to remove pains and iftflamma
tiijns from the human body, as fecuied to Dr. EI.ISHA
PERKIjij, by patent, wilh inftiiunenu and duc&ions ue- 1
ceirary tor the pra&ice. This mode of treatment is pjiiticu-
Ln " lariy ufeful iu relieving pains in tne head, face, leeth, brcail,
>ns fide, iloraach, bac l «,.rhcum3tifms, recent gouts, &c. <ic.
Vhe utility of this pVaifcct, it is not pre
sumed but there are cases in whith thii tnd cV'ry othu
rcit>edy may fjruetimes fail*
'• Ju».e ij v I
• i
»
' • i. • t
Washington Canal Lottery,
n i.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifatt
the Uftt'erwritlell, to 'raise twenty-fix thoufsnd
two hundred, and fifty dollar*, for the purpefe of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhingcon, lro».i tn
toiuacto theEaifern Branch Haruour.
The following is .lie SCHEME ol No. I.
Viz -I Prize of jo,coo doliar», ao.ooo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
llalldrawn")
I Ticket.,each [ 020 «*P*
6 ditto .1,000 6,000
t 10 Jitto 400 4,000
io ditto joo "a.oo'o
J 5 ditto 50 3,750
J750 ditto ix 69,00$
To be raised for the Canal, 26,150
1 5850 Prizes,
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize,,
' ll!foo Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 115,000
£7" The Commilfiouers have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aek. for eke puuciuai payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of Uijs Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as tltf '1 ickets are fold, of which timely
in ;ice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
' drawing: is finifhrd, {hall be considered as relinquilhed for
the Uinefit of the CVnal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J PfOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, ofD.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
WM. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Washington, Feb. 11. $
Mordecai Lewis
HAS FOR SALE,
NANKEENS, long and short. *
p China, well affortcd.
Quickftlver.
1 Diapers r >
r BaXras^
Co/fas. j|i,. i '-•' ■ - ;j ■ jfi
BaiTclano HandfeeiTKTeTs. ~
Roll Brimstone.
Sept, 6. ttiScftrrt
— . ■ J. .. ■ -
s For Sale,
, A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
; Three-story Brick House,
(The Ifre residence of General Walter Stewart)
f \TXiTI l a LOT of GROUND thereunto belonging,
s v'V the weft fide of Tliira-ftfeet, near Union-street
I ! cooUimog in front 34 feet,, and in depth top feet, to ad
alley leading into Umon-ltrcet. The house is 3a feet franc
e 50 l'eet deep ; the fcveral rooms contained in it arc
s large, commddioHs, and completely finiihed; the two firft
e stories are each 13 feet high; there are 20 mahogany
e doorsfn the house ; a geometrical staircase, with mahoga
* ny a good iky-light. The kitchen is in the tell
e ar, whioh is fpacions and conveiiient, and finifhed with a#
- oven, stew-holes and pantries, a fervauts* hall end large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an
3, area in which thire is a pump. The yard is vaulted,
k with the said buildih* is a neat thrri"-ftory
trick hoafe, on the north fide of Unlon-ftrect, coßtaiiw
ing 30 feet front by io feet deep; the lower part oi vyhica'
if is at prefeAt.occupied sia coriipting-houfe, and the upper
ie part divided into well-fiuilhtd Isr.ge chambers. Yhishcuae
ik may at a small eipttift be converted into a convenient
I dwelling : The street door is very haiidfonte. atul the front
and back have VYfiCfian vvmSSw-mutters. Adjoining ths
J*- lail house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are erected
bathing-rooms, Stc. There are lifcewife Vtry good coach*
ie house and stables finilhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
II the city, 011 a lot containing Oil Union llreet 30 feet, and
ie in depth 011 the wufl. fule of said alley 52 feet. There are '
td good cellars uude« the iwhole of the buildings, and a wine
of ro»m over part of the stable, with a hay-lol't over the re
t. maiuder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD tfONS«LI & Co.
0 At chcfir Office No. $4 Dock-ftreii. bet ween Walnut & Pear
nt ttrceu.
6th mpntb 24th, 1796.
FOR SALE.
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT n miles from this City, lituate in Abing
ton Township, Montgomery-County ; containing
70 a ten, a new (lone house, two stories high, 2 rooms on a
floor, fire places in each, a flone kiiclien and Hone spring
boulc, over »n excellent spring of waiar, a baja, ftablei,
sheds, barracks, &c. A large Simple orchard, and 3 Virielv of
othfrfruit, about 12 acres ot good meadow well watend,
and wood fufficient for fire, and fcaciiig the place. Pjlfcfl"
g- on may be had the ill of Ap. il next. Proprrty~in ihis c.ty
will betake,, in exchange, or MORRIS and NICHOLSONS
Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Str»et.
Philadelphia, September 13, j7<s• j. tiftf
■ ' ' - —— S—
' WANT £D,
_ Fcr any term from one to four years,
A HOUSE, pleafautly ficuated in any of tbe principit
streets within the pavement, and not very dillant front.
n the titate-Houfe, capable of accommodating a small fami
-3T ly ; the house iv.ult have ilanlcs and coach-house, and
" s would be required to be ready by the firft week in Ne
t0 vember next —Eir«juire of the printer.
" Sept 14. ttf
It. '
FOR SAL E,
2? A very Valuable Eitate,
GALLED TlVirr EN ham, name in the
towhlhip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
sn"5 n " 7 t-i miles from Phi;ad lphia, and half a mile from the
::i " new Western road: containing 2:3 c acres of excellent land,
3T ~ 45 of which arc good watered meadow, 9Cof prime wood-
A land, and }ltc rell arable of this firft quality. There are
,a * On the prcriiifes a good two story briclc houfc, with 4 rooms
er - OB a floor, and cellars under the whose, with a pump-weft
l ' e > of e%, jllcjit water in front; « large frame tarn, ifablcs,
- er and Dther convenient buildings; a lmoke-houfe arid ltone,
? e " fpring-hdufe ; two good apple orchards, and one of pea'ch
£C cs - ' I-hc are allm clover, eicept those immediately
c * i under tillage, and are lb laid out as to haic the advantage
1 of Abater in each of tiiem, which renders it peculiarly fan
ia>' ycAient for grazing.
i he fituauon is pl«a.fant and healthy, and from
eukivation of the land, ihc good neighbourhood, and tire
vicinity to tlic city, it is very iuitable for a gentleman's '
~"/ country if at.
liie foregoing is pafft of the ellate of Jacob Harmaii,
Q j deccafed, and offered tar faie bv
Mordecai Lewis^
n t a 9. tt&i' Surviving Executor.
hiA - *
ne- m ■ 1 . 1 1 .-1 M1 —
cu- " / ~
ait, PRINTED BY JOHN FENNC,
.re- 119
hei
C H E SNUT-STR Si E T.
" j Sight DoHm per Annum.}