Jajctte of,i< ® mtrt) & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
TTTF.RDAT EVENING, DECEMBER 2o> 1796. . [VoIOME X.
Number 1336.] ' , ; — ~t T" -V C ui:
United States, \f t
Pennfvlvania DiftriS. J ■. t„ Lo "> ln
IN PURSUANCE of a writ to me directed from the no- room ail
nori lable Richard Prims, Esquire, Judge of the Dil- niture.
tria Court of the United States in and for thePennlyl- notice te
vania diftriA, bearing date the 16th inft. will be fold bill is m
by public auSian, at the Merchants' cofFee-houfe, in
the city of Philadelphia, on the silt inft. at II o clock Llega
at no >n : _ , fa
The {hip or vessel called the Dec«
with all and finguhr her tackle, apparel and furniture :
t'le lame hiving h en condemned in the faidCourt, for the
raymeStof mariners' wajref, Sec.
1 1 WILLI \M NICHOLS, Marshal.
M,rll,»ivnffirf. nihDec 1796. d ...
, Was f
Unite J. States, "I fct. don, an
Pennsylvania DiftriA. )
IN PURSU ANCE of a writ to me directed from tne no
'A n.o'ira Me Richard Peters,Efquire, Judge of the Dif
tria Court of the United States in and lor the Pennlyl
■vania diftrid, bearing date the 16th inft. will be fold D . cc ,
by public auflion, at the Merchants' coffee-houfe, in
the city of Philadelphia, on the lift inft. at I» 0 clock
Thefchooner or vessel called the San- Att j
tia< y o de Cuba, with all and Angular hr tackle, apparel
10 o*cl<
and furniture : the fame haying been condemned in the
said Court, for the payment of mariners' wages, &c.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
17th Dec. 179 6 - J*
For Sligo and Killibegs, I
The American Ship Nangt, 65
Cuthbert Riggs, matter.
3E£_»-t5 Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or passage apply to No.
William Bell;
Who has for sale, Inipot
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well alTorted
3 Bales Ivifh Funnels, and 2 boxe» Linens
25 Pipes Brandy Choic
Madeira Wine s Indigo . Rnffia Matts. Marti
Also, 1 Chpic
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK, Load'
OATMEAL, &c. i
November 11, J 796, Hiwftf Main
FOR SALE, Ruffi:
7 HE SHIP M A R T, Wine
SAMU L PARKER, Master, gj.
£" i:t hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, Si Co. a fe\
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take 1
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above. Ba
Oflober ° ch
For Charter,
The Ship JOHN BULKELY,
fc&ar Avris StockleV, Mailer. D(
An excellent live-oak and cedar built
ship, of about 3000 barrels burthen Ap-
F ' Jffi & R°b ert Wain.
Nov - - <1 — M
~ o
For Sale, or Charter, o
The Ship DIANA, y
SaAuel PibH, Mailer,' _ _ C
mmPm, Burthen 205 47*95 tGns re ß' fttr » , built
Philadelphia in the year 1791, o, (,'ve ea.lt
SfTTcSv, and was (heathed 13 months ago, ftie
has just hid a, compleat out-fit, and may be sent to sea __
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to „ , _
Philip Nicklin & Co. By
IVho have for sale on beard said vessel,
in calks of fine yellow paint. . C
0 boxes and 12 bundles of writing slates. t0
1 box ink Hands and note prefies. » the
14 bales of l'ail canvass. S
And on band, —
ISE?U? teas. 1
4oiooo "pieces Mankeens of the fVrft quality. (
in tub* Quicksilver.
i chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A fev chelts Manchester goodswell alTorted in Co c ,
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinet!, D.nrnves, &c. g,
, boxes black fewingfilk. Sti
180 crates Q»jeens ware well aflortea. pi ;
10 tons sheet lead. . Sc
Kails assorted, fiat and flaarp points. Fr
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes I)
London Market, r an d hoglhtads. Si
New-York Market, J
40 pipes and .ohoglheads Tener.ffc wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
430 logs Mahogany. tth&fif
/ Nov ' 7 - — Ts
F O R SAL E,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 93,. North Second
} " tC<h TCas '
Young Hyson, 3 ltaw^m.
Dec. 9. '
Imported from London 1 ,
EARTHEN WARE, i« crates and hoglhead., well
alTorted
f Wine Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of all sizes ,
srctftofyelVowTef«itsßark
A W fm C all^nf.g R nment r of ot ßofe Blankets, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &e.
Paints of varieus colors.
Baiket fait in hogsheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hogsheads and
Holland giu in P»P es ' firft quahty
Ihoe, alTorted
°isSs E^ss g of
Wa'nut-ftreet Wharf.
cots
BANK NOTES Frej!
Loft, in Dock or Second-streets between Pole 's auflion
room and Chef»ut-lirtet, rolled in a bill of sales for fur-- Tllis
niture. The finder (if honest) will be so good as fend
notice tethe Printer, cr to the person in whqfe nai/ie the
bill is made. djf £
Elegant Brussels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon.No. ij,South Third-street.
December 15. c ' t GAs
Women's Cloaks.
G E O R G E~D OBSO N, ? ive
No. 15, South Third-Hrect, °. llr
lias just reeeived, per Jiagle, Capt. Fofdick, via I.on
don, ail afTortment of Eleve
Scarlet
Drab ( Cloaks trimmed with lur and » *
Purple and f ermine. Threi
Pearl J Five
December 15. i -j- cn
Bank of Penn/ylvania, \ $th Dee. 179''*
The Stockholders are requested to meet
At the Bank onThurfday, the twenty-ninth instant, at
TO o'clock iH the morning.
Br order of rhe Board, r 2
ROBERT RALSTON, Cashier,
§txoth F_ro_tcm.
For bale, Bt
By the Subscribers —In PENN-STREF-T, The
6 5 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS. —
Nov, 30 w&f (
; —; —; At (
Imported in the late arrfr-ils from Europe and the J A
IVeJt-Indies, tl
Holland Gin, in pipes a
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique MolaCTas, in hoglheads .
Choice old Lisbon Wine, in pipei and quarter-calks V.
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine, corn
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-c.fts *
Malmsey Madeira Win*, in pipes and quarter-calks
Tenerifl'e Wine, in pipes, j
Russia & Flemilh Sheeting and Ravens Duck, n cales dcs( .
Window Glass, 8 by 10, in boxes Lan
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in casks
I vari
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes thy
1 Also, on hand,
A few chests of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark s, Affiifffl
: tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of Collies,
Baftaj, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker- I
chiefs, and a complete afi'ortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Bjttlting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers & Co.
Oflober 20
t — — 1
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
Nb. 168, HlO H-S TRE ET.
HAS FO* SALK, Retaij.,
MADEIRA WINE, of id quality,
Old Sherry, Lisbon, and Port Wipes,
Cognr.c Brandy,
Jamaica Spirits,
Wine bitters and
Clarst in cafe 6.
in Also fcr sale,
ll[ A few barrels of excellent Beef.
December 7.
P Qr
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from 11 inch cables down
to rope of « inches, of different lengths: Imported in -
the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Septic. dt '
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, Np. 25,
' SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received per the Diana, from London,
° r " Clouded and striped Spamfh Swanfdown
C * Clouded Erminats and Moleikins
Striped do. a»d do.
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Errainets
Printed Florinetts
pes Do. Caffinets and Caffitnerei
Sujierfine printed Quiltings, newest patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general aiTortnient or
Goods,
- ftf Suitable to the present and approaching season,
November 5. 0t
Cheap French China.
' e ' THE fubferibers finding it impossible to fnpply their
store with any more China from France, the prices
bein" too immoderate in the manufaaones, give no
tice that they will fell at prime cost the remaining
stack on hand, consisting of
' DeflTert Setts,
Tea- Table Setts
5 Separate Cups and Saucers
welt Groupes and Figures
Alabaster Vases
Looking Glasses, in gilt frames,
Besides India Jipan'd Toilet Desks, Chairs,'tables
. nad Quadrille Boxes. PAOTER & Co.
No. 91, South isecond-ftreet.
December sth.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 3131 HIGH-STREET.
C FORGE DAVIS announces to his profeflional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
n j Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
' f d -rid v>adv for Sale, from a (ingle volume 10 an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former lo'A
prices, which forfeveral years p S . have m so diftmgu.lhed a
man»>ei recommended them to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the molt exttnfive collec
tion cf the (ateft E«gHfl) and Ir.lh Editions ever imported
ng of into this country, are psbllfhed, and will be delivered g.at.i
** On orde"addr'effedto G. D. in writing from any distance
' ' [hall be punctually attended to,
, A no-niber of 1 RUNKS for Sale.
d. ALSO, TO BE LET,
f. A convenient LOFT, neat Market Street Wh^rf.^
Fresh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds,
Roots, &c. &c. In
This day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick, In \
from Loudoh, by the
And FOR SALE by -but
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
I nalLo
Corner of Walnut, and Second-streets, firft N
A most capital and txtenfroe AJfortment of aJe he
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS, those
ROOTS, &c. &c.
Among which are,
Five kinds Asparagus Tlire: kinds Cretfes
f cllr Berecole Twelve
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radilh
Six Beets Fifteen 1 urnip X*h (
Eleven Brocoli Fifteta eas : their i
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six _ i v ° > ' I fion,a
Six Carrut Four , a J ,P i P ar ' 3
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon
Five Celery Twer.ty-one Lettuce -
Ten Cucumberi IS
Common and lemon Thyme Choc
Curled ltaf and sprigged Parsley f ew „
Pot Pot Marjorum Cvde
BalAi Thyme Mangel Wurtzel FISW
Leek Kail Shallots rlan
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint.Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c.
With a curious collection of the molt eftec-med , Dt
FLOWER-S2EDS and ROOFS,
Being the most cxter five ever imported into this city.
The above£ire from a capital Seedsman in London, and A 1
- are warranted frelh and good. . ted 1
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above. CAR
Dec. 17. " _ _ dtf " J vhol
Orv Wednesday, the 28th inft.
At 6 o'elocf in the evening ivill be fold at Public-Fen
due, (if not before dfpofed of at private sale) at
the City-Tavern,
All that capital rr.ai.fion-houfe, stables, out-hotifes, &c.
and three eo:,riguous trails ef land situate on the Welt-fide
of Schuylkill ia the township of Blockley and county ot A
Philadelphia, guirrally known by the name of Lanfdown, 0 ,
containins; ioy acres I<l perches more or lefsand a meffu-
age plantation and tr?& oi land in Blockley township a
t'orelaid adjoining Lanfdown, containing 64 acres one Tl
, . , exch
The premises are so well known as to need no particular Cree
dcfcriptioti. Few feats in Amerita can compare with ; n fp,
i Lanfdown for convenience and elegance ; it commands a c han
variety of rich beautiful piofpeAs and is remarkably heal- w hii
thy. Terms effalc will he-made known by .£
PHILIP NICKLIN, Attornies in
and /■ to on ]
ROBERT E. GRIFFITH, J James Greenleaf. .j
■ Dec. I».
Juit Landing, and
At South flreet •whtxrf, from on laard the ship Stdg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peterjburg, ,—
The following Goods:
RmTia Sail Dsck, firft quality. 7
Do. Sheeting do. the
Do. Diaper. NOl
Do. Huckaback. pla<
Do Crafn. , ~ c , cha
Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and the,, lb. ot the bll ;
Englilh iite. kin
Do. White Candle Tallow. the
B«- White C-oip ju foi?.!l boxes. fee
Do. Corflage of fine yarn. lot
Ravens Due!.. fca
lfinglafs, ift and «nd fort. De
Horse Hair uncurled. of
Rufiia Bar Iron.
D. Hocp Iron. k ne
~ Do. Nail Rods.
19 Tons Oakum"lnd Junk. —
n St. Pcterlburg Cloan Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
™ OAoberil. i__ .
,n HoLDLRNESSE, No. 76,
high-street, d
Has received by the late arrivals, S
A Well Selected Assortment of E
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and j
Haberdashery Goods, J
Which he will fell, wholetale and retail, on the very
low eft terms ;
Amongfl 1-jhich are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconct Muflini
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality 1
) rv Silk and Cotton Hosiery <
' Umbrella*: of the firft quality, alTorted
lrilh Linens, very fine,> and Table Linens
n, Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Role Blankets afforted-—&c. &c.
1 Oitoßer 16. t |
" R~AI SINS.
heir A few Calks and Boxes of Excellent Frelh RAISINS,
ricee just received, and for sale by
■ no- Joseph Anthony it Co.
Also a new 11 1-2 inch CABLE, 120 fathoms long.
December 5. '
BelFßofton & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbls.
47 bbls. priihe Coffee,
Best Boston Beef,
ables C;>dfi(h in hd '"
Spermaceti Landles,
et. Spermaceti, and 1 OIL.
tts Northern J
Mutild and dipt, tallow candles, of a lupenor
quality.
A few boxes excellent brown soap,
iends, 6 g a ] es 0 f Corks.
h the 40 Pipes excellent Lilbon Wine.
" ia s~ A few sacks of Feathers.
'"j A few bales India MuflinS.
FOR SALE Bt
TOSfePH AN x THONY, & Co.
:olkc- -J H
ported Oflober 31.
'g>atii A Genteel Houie.
n FOR SALE, a new, convenient, three-flory HOUSE,
CC situate in Fifth, near Spracj-ftveet. PolTtffion may be
had in two months, "when it w® be fimflied in a neat
modern style. For terms apply at No. 109, bpruce
ilrcet, or 109, So. Water-ftrcnt.
mo December 8. 13
A Short Delay
In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery,
In Walhington city, has been unavoidably occafionsd
by the unforefeen intervention of Mr. Blodget s Lottery
—but as the major pait of the tick<£s are now disposed
of, this is to inform the public that the drawing of the Ca
nal Lottery will certainly commencc without fail, on the
firft Monday in Tanuary 1797, and thole holding tickets, '
aje hereby requeued vo fend a statement of those fold, and
those on hand.
NOTLY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of Dudc'.ington,
GEORGE WALKER,
THOMAS LAW, .
JAMES BARRY,
W. M. DUNC ANSON.
Th« Printers who gave our advertisements a place in
rficir newspapers, are requested to give this notice admis
sion, as the remaining tickets are expetfted to be soon above
par, and we wifli adventurers to be timely informed
N«v n- 16 v.'.
New-England Rum, Salmon, Beef,
Chocolate, Rice, Boston mould and dipt Candles, 1
few quarter-casks of Sherry Wine, a few barrels of
Cvder, and a few quintals of excellent T ible COD
FISH—for sale by
Ezekiel Hall,
No. 42, North Wker-ftreet.
- December 14th, r
For Sale,
AN ELEGANT PHAETON, almost new, with pla
ted Harness equally new ; and also a Pair of handlome
CARRIAGE HORSES, warranted good and found. I'he
whole to be seen at the Indian Queen, in Fourth btreet;
for terms, apply to THOMAS Mc. ICLANE.
December 19. .3
For Sale,
By Jeh u H'ollingfwortb, & Co.
2j hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
5 Barrels best Indigo, and,
A few buihels of 1 urk s Ifiand fait.
oa. 17. ■ •
Walhington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefnut- r
Creet, where a correil Numerical Book is kept for public
1 infpeition. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
-1 changed for prizes dtawH in the Walhington Lottery, of
• which the 46th and 47th days returns received.
xh» Business of a Broker carried on as usual.
%* A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fold
on reasonable terms. Dcccmber 15. ttstf
Old London particular Madeira H ine,
■ Landing from on board the barque Eajrle, Capt. Bates,
and for sale by ROBERI .ANDREWS,
No. 86, South Wharves.
November at). * eodtf
For Sale,
A capital stand for bufinefs—fhat well known tavern, «
the Ewe and Lambs, North Front Street, No. 333, in t he
Northern Liberties; a brick house contaiiung nine fire
places, and ten rooms well finifbed J good stables and
clvjir-houfe, with a frame-houfe on Water ftre'et ; the
16 building flands on four lots, seventeen feet front each, ma
king a front on front-llrect, thirty four feet, and nearly
the fafoe ou Water-street, and is one hundred and forty
sect deep from flreet o street, fubjedl to £8. ios. each
lot per annum, ground rent, this property is near the hay
fcales, and public, docks, easy communication with the
Delaware waters and advantageously situated for business
of various kinds.
The above premises are now rented until December
next at X-l/5 per annum.—Enquire of tne Printer.
Dec 11. ■ §iw2aw6w.
For Sale,
0 By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
~~ Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or single one
Dry C«dfifh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Flatter of Paris, in the stone
erv antj ground, for manure and stucco-work
December i. ftf
new SWAN N'S
Riding School, Horse Aladem? £sf Infirmary.
Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his fmcere thanks tot ofe gentlemen bv whom
he has been employed, during his residence in thi* City, and
flattershimfelf that the success of his effoits, in the numerous,
obstinate and dangerous diseases in Horfcs, in which he has
been confulteo", together with his moderate charges, will se
cure their futurefavors and recßmmeu ati >n
He now begs leave to inform them and the public a large
that hts Ipacious and commodiou« premises ere&ed. lor the
purposes above deferibed are open lor the rect ption of pupils
— - I of either lex, who wifhto beiiifiruftcd in-the of Hiding,
and the right method of governing their horfcs, f.. Ast . ude
INS them wuh e»fe, elegance, and lately—their liorfes will be
' carefully and expedniouliv broke, for every ptrfpofc, and
! made obedient to the will of the nders ; the ,uior»l powers
'• ! whtcti are (hut up in tfifm, will he unfolded by art, cal.ing
long. ! forth u II ormitv of motion, and gl'ing to that noble animal
all thole beauties of attiun which providence has to bounu
— fully bellowed on them. , ' .
Also, at his every dtfor er to which the norie 11
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
by long and repealed experience.
The utility of the above inllitution has never
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, every gentleman's
Hud will manifed, and T. S-w nn astheft;U eftablifticr of
the Veterenary art, solicits and relies upon ihe fuppoit of that
public (which he never anxious in serving) to enable him to
biingu to perfection. The idea of a tublcripUon for uhat
has beeu hinted by feve a 1 gentleman, who wish to
icrior promote the in.ftitution - the amount of each fublcnp ion to
be returned bv services in any of the departments he proteilesj
agreeable to the rate of charges Hated in his hand bill. Such
fublcription is now open, and the fignatores of many resect
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore informs hn
friends and !u.h Ladies and gentlemen lo whom he has not
the honor of being known, that he IhaH in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them and foliciliiig their fuppoit
smd protcftioo. ,
N B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies ana
0. Gentlemen who wish to be inftruCted. ,
1 Nov. 5. ...
WANTED,
3USE > As Cook, in a private family,
lay A YOUNG WOMAN who can produce good re
*ucc- commendations of an unexceptionable character. En
quire of the Printer.
x§ November i;. <New Theatre.
On WEDNESDAY EVENING, December tt,
Wil be presented, *
A COMEDY, called
- The Road to Ruin.
Dornton, Mr. Warren
Harry Dornton, Mr. Cooper.
Sulky,. Mr. L' Efrange
•Silky, Mr. Francis
Goldfinch*. » Mr. Harwtod
Milford, Mr. Fox
Smith, Mr. Harley, jun.
Tradesmen, Mitchell, Morgan, &c.
Sheriff's Officer, Mr. Warrcli
•fccob, Mr. Eliffett
Marker, Mr. Wurrell, jun.
Pcftillion, Master Wan-ell
Mrs. Warren, firft time, Mrs. Oldmixon
Sophia, Mrs. Merry
Jenny, Mrs. Francis
Mrs. Ledger, Mrs. Dodor
To which will be added,
A FARCE, called
The Irishman in London.
Captain Seymour, Mr. Fox
Mr. Frost, Mr. Francis.
Mr. Callooney, Mr. Darley, jun.
MurtoehDelany, with tfongMr. Warren
Edward, Mr. Hariuood
Cymon, Mr. Eliffett
Louisa, Mrs. Harvey
Caroline, Miss L'Ejirange
Cubba, Mrs. Francis
ON FRIDAY,
The Tragedy of
The Orphan ;
Or, The Unhappy Marriage.
With a New Ballet, compoi-d by Mr. Byrn, called
THE B O U QJJ E T :
In which will be -introduced, the favorite
TABOURINE DANCE.
The French company of Comedians, having been
honored with considerable applause on their firft appear
ance, will perform again on Saturday next, and every Sa
turday, until farther notice. Particulars qgll be exprefi
cd in future Bills.^
Box, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit one Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.
£3T Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's Book-store,
No. 5® High-street, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
The Doors Theatre will open at j, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to be taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till » o'clock, and from
10 till 4 on the days of performance.
No money or tickets to be returned, nor any
person, on any account whatsoever, admitted behind
the fumes.
FIPAT RESfUBL ICA !
Mrs. Grattan
Refpe&fully informs the Ladies and Gentlemen of the
City, that the firft
• LADIES' CONCERT
Will be THIS EVENING at the AfTembly-Room.
Act I.
Overture, p-,M.
Song, Mrs. Grattan, " Angels ever bright," Handel.
Concerto Piano-Forte, Mw. Grattan, Krumpholtx.
Italian Ballad, Harp, Mrs. Grattan, Milico.
Miscellaneous Quartette.
Acr 11.
Harp Ltflbn, Mrs. Grattan, , Cordon.
Song, "Ah fe perdo," Mrs. Grattan, Sacchini.
Sonato Piano-Forte, Mr. Reinagle, P ley el.
Primrose, ballad, Mrs. Grattan, Wcbbe-
Overture,
*4-* To begin precisely at 7 o'clock.
Mrs. Grattan begs leave to inform the Ladies and
Gentlemen, thst the fubferiptiou-boak is at herhoufe
No 39, North Sixth-street, for the reception of those
names who wife to honor her with their commands.—
A fubferiprton for eight nights 16 dollars, including a
Gentleman and Lady's ticket, both taansferrable—
Half-fubferiptions 8 dollars, including one ticket.—
Single ticket » dollars.
Mrs. Grattan takes the liberty of requesting the
fubferibers to fend for their tickets any day after
Thursday, the 15th of December, at No. 39, North
Sixth-ftrest.
Single tickets to be had at the Bar of Oellers's
Hotel. December 10
For Sale,
Seven elegant Scites for Buildings,
Opposite the State-House Garden and Congress-
Hall; each Lot being 25 feet front on Sixth-street,
and no teet deep to a 14 eet Court, agreeable to a
plan which may be seen at the CofTec-Houfe or at the
office of Abraham Shoemaker, No. nx> So. Fourth
ftreet, where she terms will be made known.
December 16
00 3
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an election
for thirteen Direflors to serve for one year, will be held
at the Company's Office, on Monday the 9th January »ext,
at 11 o clock.—And agreeably to the aci of incorporation
a ilatement of the affairs of the company, will then be
laid before them.
SAMUEL VV. FISHER, Sec'y.
I hiladelphia, December 1796. d t 9th Jan.
TO-MORROW MORNING will be Published,
Porcupines
POLITICAL CENSOR,
For NOVEMBER, 1796.
CONTAINING
OBSERVATIONS
On the Insolent and Seditious Notes,
(Attacking the sovereignty and independence of the
I United States J
Communicated to the People, by the late Frcneh
minister, ADET.
December 10. . * JW
Just Arrived,
In the ship Djfpatch, Captain Morton, from Havre
de-Grace, and for sale by
Isaac Snowden, jun. No. 141
. SOUTH SECOND STREET,
_..A" ' n y oic e of Gloves of various kinds, Men's
White bilk Hose, Black and White Laccs, and a few
pieces of Black Silk.
December».
fOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fen no,
THAT contemptible and drunken vagabond
Tom Paine, who is notoriously destitute of every
honed principle, religious, moral or poiiticral, has
crowned his career of impudence and falfhood with
a letter addrefled in all the affe&ed familiarity of
democraticfamiliarity, Thomas Paine to George
Washington. Heavens! what a contralt.—
Exccflive vanity, dauntless impudence and extrava
gant falfhood are the prevailing ingredients in this
democratic dose. The poor, filly fat has been
railing at all the world unheeded and despised, and
expects now to call attention by the magnitude of
his object and the ridiculous extravagance of his
defamation—and what has set the madman roaiing ?
His dear friends have bee» so ungrateful I
suppose he effefled their revolulion as >vel| as ours)
as to have given him a fraternal embrace ISI the
arms of a prifor>; and the PrefiHent o"f the United
States mod " unfeelingly" find in the ranknefs of
his ingratirude, neglected to arm the American na
tion in his behalf, and liberate this French citixen,
this member of the National Convention from his
imprisonment among the friendsof liberty and equali
ty. If he gave himfclf to the French, as certainly
he did, they had a just authority to dispose of him as
proper, and it would have been an
impertinent interference in t he internal affairs of a
great and magnanimous nation to have attempted
any controul in their treatment of him. If he en
tered into their fervuse and betrayed them, as he
did the committee of foreign affairs of the United
States, they had as fair a rigltt to imprifim him for
his offence, as congress had to dismiss him from
offiee.
1 his creature of avaricious poverty and deranged
ambition, who is the ready and devoted tool of
every faflion that will pay his pricc,—who would
set the world on fire if he could find (ix prnce by
the light—a"d advocate the climate and govern
ment of hell to be popular there, afiumes to him
felf a high rank in the American revolution. His
pen, it is true, was ufeful, whilil the head and
heart that dirt&ed it were deteftahle. The man
ner and means by which his talents in inflammatory
composition were engaged in favor of American li
berty, like evrry other known adl of his life, {hew
him to be aw unprincipled, mercenary wretch.
Dare he pretend that » Common Sense" was the vo
luntary effufion of his enthusiastic love of liberty ?
Did he come forward a willing and sincere advocate
of our eaufe, dire&ed by an honrft, patriotic prin
ciple, and acting with the zeal of freedom and si
delity ? On the contrary, is it not known, that he
was, ttt the commencement of our revolutionary
troubles, a decided friend cf the meafurea of Great-
Britain i And was he not fought out and employed
to -write on the American fide ? When thus fal
tered, persuaded, and, if I mistake not, paid, how
easily did he forfake his firft impreflions, for prin
ciples he has none, and violently oppose his former
friends and condu&. When peace crowned the
success of our arras, Paine emigrated to Enrope—
The land of peace afforded no theatre for the ex
hibition of his factious and malignant talents. He
has no faerifices for her temple. Intrigue, faction,
war and desolation ire his divinities—To them his
days and nights are confecrated—ln their fei vice he
disregards every tie that unites man with his God,
his country and himfelf—.His firft attack was upon
the tranquillity of Oreat-Britain—But here he was
difgracefully defeated, and had well nigh left his
ears as the trophies of that defeat, and the security
of his good behavior. At this critical timi with
him, France presented a glorious scene for the ex
ercise as his talents —"1 hither he went, and for a
little while imposed on his new employers. He
was hailed on his artiv'l as the child and defender
of liberty, but was foen discovered to be a hypo
critical bastard of discord and faction, ahd driven
from all confidence and refpeft. He terminated
his expjoits in France as he did those in America
in difgraee and contempt.—The rigorous policy of
that country confined him in a gaol, while the more
lenient raeafurts of this were content with discharg
ing hina from all offiee and trust. Are the ravings
of this disappointed madman to be attended to?
While I regret there was found any man in the
United States so base and hostile to the peace and
honor of his country as to publish this letter of in
famy, I comfort myfelf with believing that there
is but one man so loft, and that he is now so well
known that he can neither add to nor the
reputation of my country. DETECTOR.
Philadelphia, Dec. 19, 1796.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Men of reading and reflettion long ago conclu
ded that Democrats were no republicans. It was
lately conceded in one of the Jacobin papers that
this was true. Its being true renders its rather the
more strange that it should be acknowledged. It
is so however, and Democrats take the name and
are welcome to it. It has worn badly enough, and
now their French pay-mailers have-cast it off (for
they now reprobate democracy in Paris) our imita
tive gentry seem to claim it as if like running foot
men they had a clear right to the second-hand suit
of those whom they serve. The name fits them
admirably, as it means that anarchy which rul»s the
confirmed authorities or survives their definition.
The use that lias been made of the name, to deceive
•firft, and, then to plunder, suits the hypocrisy, the
licentiousness, or the need of the different feds
that form the democratic party. The credulous
dupes may be left out as a diftinft fefl, for
the fa£l is, the) do not keep together in a body,
but are scattered among the others, according to the
chara&cr of the leader they happen to enlifl under.
In the lage of despair, an attempt has been made
to difgraee the chara&er of federal-republican. De
finitions have been quoted from books, implying that
it is the power of a few which is meant by re
pablicanifm, &c- But these are proofs of that fort
of pedantry and indocility which is not made mo
dest by confciout ignorance, nor wife by reading.
Let the party be ftiled demosrats, far two rea
ions. First, it describes the fort of politics they
would introduce—and secondly, it is ft name alrea
dy difgrjeed aud fits the wearers.
Paragraph from the .furora.
" When Mr. Parker asked wii«t had become of
Mr. Ames's patriotism during the revolution, he
arose, and laid nothing on that fubjeft."
The y'.nfiuer.
Mr. Ames was then a boy. It is a point yield
ed to Mi. Baehe that patriotism may be sometimes
a saleable virtue. It is denied that it is a boyish
one.
THE DEMONIAC—No. 11.
From the Aurora ofTrJltrday.
What ! is not 15,000 dollars a year, drawn out by
anticipation, a compensation fufficient for the official
duties of the President; ard is he h'mfelf to declare
his count: y still in his debt, by boaftingofhis dilinter
eltednefs ? Ths law fays that 35,000 dollars .1 year
fhali be a compensation tor his fervic.es, an.t real'on fays
it is quire enough.
It has been said, that ingratitude is the crying fia of
republics I hold a contrary dodtrine, that gratitude te
individuals is their greatest crime, and oftener leads to
slavery than any other cause. When a citizen is called
by the voice "this country to an important station, he
is honoured, a.id his best exertions,on!y can repay the
debt of gratitude he owes his country. While he is in
thefervice of his country he receives a eompenfation,
in full for his time and trouble, and when he retiies
after having done his duty, h - has but done his duty.
If a balance remains, it is of gratitude due the people
by the individual, for the honor conferred on him.
A contrary deilrine will make slaves of us all.
The malice of Jacobin hearts is well known ; —
but there seems fometjiing inexplicably wrong in
the make and operation of their brain
The President is denied, in the Aurora, all claim
to gratitude, because, if he has done well—(mind
the impudence of that if) —he has done 00 more
thin his duty, which he is paid by his salary for
doing. Grßtitude, when it goes beyond that, would
endanger the liberty of a republic.
This is lather a new doctrine. When the Au
rora gives details of French victories, the eSitor is
never tired, though his readers are, of the praises
due to the French toldiers, because, they did their
duty in the battle. Why praise Frenchmen for do
ing their duty ! They have bread, and meat, and
wages. If the President were a Frenchman, would
he be entitled to praise and thanks ?
Put a plainer cafe. Is not the Aurora deserving
of praise, for its hardy zeal in the cause, beyond
the ordinary reward of the fubfeription money ?
Surely it is worth more than money to exult at the
prjfpedt of otir being involved in disputes with
France, our trade preyed Hp»n, and our nation
snubbed and spit upon, as if it was St. Domingo,
or a party-coloured rabble of Victor Hughes's men.
To exult in this cafe, to juitify the aggreflors, and
to join in condemning America, is merit—it is more
than duty—and justly claims fomeother reward than
money.
RICHMOND t (Virginia,) Dec. 10, 1796.
AN ANECDOTE.
At the late ele&ioo of a Prelident and Vice Pre
sident, a gentleman of the name of Leven Powell,
had wisdom and firmnefs enough to rote for George
Washington and John Adams, notwithllanding the
inlidious arts of the elettor from Caroline, to in
duce a belief that it was edeatial far America to
conciliate with the French dire&ory, by voting for
Thomas Jefferfon. At th« play en the lall even
ing, a certain Ifliam Randolph, supposing himfelf
surrounded by birds of a feather, undertook to call
upon the Orchestra, for " God save the king, for
Leven Powell !"—the intended wit created a demo
cratic grin for the moment, but a young gentleman
by the name of Cheller, demanded of Randolph
what he meant ? Nothing fir, cried the Poltroon'
very well, if you meant nothing, it may be easily
fettled—there fits Mr. Powell, tell him you meant
nothing, and ale his pardon. He did so, and sa
ved himfelf from the chaftifcment he deserved.
CONGRESS OF -the UNITED STATES.
IIOUSI OF REPRESENTATIVES.
% '
Wednesday, December 14.
Continuation of the debate on the address in answer
to the President's speech.
Mr. Swanwick did not know that any gentleman
had objected to that part of the paragraph in question
which spoke of our grateful sense of the kindness of
providence, for the benefits we enjoyed ; but it was
the impropriety of contraliing our situation with that
of other nations which was principally objeifted to.
And was it right, he asked, to tell Providence that ws
were more enlightened than nations ? certainly
not, rather let us rejoice that it is so, but not offend
others by making our bonds of it. Mr. Swanwick
again noticed the losses sustained in our commerce,
from the Britilh, French and Alfcerincs. The only
remedy for which he believed was a naval force. Was
this, he aikcdacaufe for exultation : He thought not.
He feared the revenues of this country would certainly
fuffcr from the present stagnation of commerce. He
had himfelf experienced confirfcrable leffes ; but the
evil was not a partial but a general one ; and, as he did
not feel the prosperous situation in which this courtfry
was painted, he could not confcnt to violate his feelings
by expressions contrary to them. The pentleman
from Mafiachufetts ( Mr. Ames) in the .last leffion
spoke at great length, on the horrors of war; which
he looked upon as inevitable, if the Britilh treaty then
under difcuflion, was not carried into effect. But now,
when a profpefl of war, appears from another quar
ter, its miferie* seem to be forgotten, and he almost
calls his country to the conflict. He left the gentle
man to account for such inconsistency.—The fame
gentleman had made a companion of a fliipwreck,
which he thought totally inapplicable. Were the na
tions to which this country were compared in a state
of shipwreck ? If we consult their own account of
themlclves, as he had before they called them
felres the molt free and enlightened. Mr. Swanwick
concluded by laying that he neither discarded Provi
dence, nor was willing to think too lowly of our
prosperity, but he did not wish to make our boast, as
to rifle the offending of other nations.
On a call for the committee to rife ( it being past
three o'clock.) A motion was put o that effedi, and
loft 43 to 31.
Mr. Giles hoped the committee would have risen,
that he might to-morrow have had an opportunity of
replying to feme obfervatiors which h2d fallen from
different gentlemen; for though he thought he had
exprefied himfelf so as nor to be misunderstood, it seems
he was KiilUkea. It was net wonderful, he said, that :
tlie pnpu'arity of the President .".ould lie drtHVn inft
this debate. It had heen too common to do this; J>ut
he truited the weight which was wished to be given
to arguments from that circumfiance would not le
very great ; andjas to the committee who prepared the
address before them having been unanimous in agree
ing to it, that would have little effeit upon him. TTe
cared not for the unanimity of that committee tho'
it appeared strange that the fail !h uld hav» been as sla
ted. It had been complained that if the Prefideut
not to be complimented upon his wifd -m and firmneis
in his administration, there would be 110 room left ior
compliment. He was of a difi'e. ent opinion. At an/
rate he was unwilling to allow his adminiflration had
been wife and firm. Gentlemen had called upon hi.ft
to produce instances of his want of wisdom and firm-'
, ness. He laid he would not seek for more than one,
I which was in the cale of the Britith treaty, the coale
quence of which he believed w as the preleut m funder
fiandnlg with the French government ; for though
many *>ffe nee were mentioned in the Fit ; '1
minifler'a note which had taken place prior to the Bri
; tifh treaty, yet as these grievances had never before
beer, spoken of, it was evident that the British treaty
had called them forth. *nd gentlemen might lay
what they pleased about the law of nations, no neutral
nation ought to grant that to one belligerent
which fh'juld prove an injury to its rival. Lojfc at
Europe, said he, and fee what joy was (hewn hy Bri
tain on the aecomplifhment of the late treaty, and with
what contrary feelings it was received by France.
The gentleman from Mafßuhufetts ( Mr. Ames)
when the British Treaty was the fuhjeCt was over
eomi by the pr-ofpeft of war, but now he feemid
willing to embrace all those horrors, and was Inud
in his calls of support of the exacutive. Hefpr' e
of foreign influence, and called upon the world to
judge between them. He supposed us upon the
eve of war with France. If so he wou'.i 'imind
the house tliat such an event would be a difaflrous
one to this country, as 110 nation had thepmvei of
injuring tis mote than the Frenth, and none that
we had it in our power less to annoy. Yet that
gentleman exclaimed, Now is the time ro come
forth to support the govcri mem ! The War-hoop
and Hatchet, of which the gentleman spoke la It
session so feelingly had now loft all their horror. If
this fitu.fcijn was produced by the improper con
dud of the exe&ti**, it was enough to prevent
him from giving his vote in favour of the Prefi.
dent's wife and firm admi'iiflration. But the oen
tlemao fiom S. Carolina (Mr. Smith) said there
was an atrepipt to divide the Prifident from the
other branches of the government. Mr. Giles said
the President had no advice in this bufii'tfs hut that
of the Senate. He would ask that house, he would
ask all America, whether, if that iijjti uitent-hsd
been laid upon the table of that house, before it
had received the fandlion of the Executive, ii t
would have been approved there ? He wag certain
it would not. It was his opinion, i: was the opi
nion of hisconftituents, that it was a rui.i'ous mea
sure, and this would, ere long, be the opinio# of
America.
The gentleman from Pcnnfylvania (Mr. Sk
greaves) had compared our notice of the calamitous
fitaation of Europe to a man cautioning his family
against the fellies of his neighbours: but, said Mr.
Giles, suppose that neighbour was present ? They
were carrying on a convention about (he French
nation, which would be published. He believsd
indeed, that an organ of a foreign nation had been
present during the debate. How then would the
comparison of the gentleman bear ?
Gentlemen had been charged with a desire of
striking out the expressions of our grateful sense of
the Jcindnefs of Providence ; but was it not knowrV,
that the motion to strike out, was with a view tf
introducing something more tiflrxceptioriabla when
recommitted ? He thought there was scope enough
to compliment the Prelident, without pipnino gen*
tleuien down to write Scoundrel on their own fore
heads, by expressing approbation of measures*
which they had always opposed i he hoped there
fore, the motion would prevail, and the anfiver
would be recommitted.
Mr. Williams said, although he vras convinced
that the neceflary attention would not *be paid to
any obfqvations made at that late hour, yet he
would not be fatisfied by giving a silent vote on
luchan important occauon. He wou'rd, therefore
beg the indulgence of the hou'fe for a few moments)
while he went over some objedlioiis which had been
dated by Mr. Giles. Mr. Williams said, it was no
new thing to be told by that gentleman, chat the
President's popularity would influence the house, or,
that he (Mr. Giles) would , fay he would speak
his own opinion. Mr. Williams hoped he
fcould be credited in not only speaking his own o
pinion, but that of his cenHiiucnts, when he said
the address to the President was founded on truth)
and this afiertion, said Mt. Williams, is confirmed
by the proceedings not only of the legi(l«ture of
the (late he had the honour te represent, but ?.lfo
that of the gentleman's own Hate, together with all
the different legislatures in tlw union, which had
been in session since the Prefix wit's farewel address.
But, said Mr Williams, the gentleman (Mr. Giles)
appears to have summed up his »bj«aions to the
wildom and fitmnefsof the President in two points.
The one was, refpefting the- British treaty, and the
other, that of his having his name in the journal?
of this house, in opposition to the adminiltratton
t ,x,fr eCUt ' V f- Wlth ref P t,S t0 the fi't.
Mr. Williams, this nation had a right to enter into
a treaty with Great-Britain," or it could not he
said we were an independent peopje ; and he trust.
Ed we (hould be juftified in so doing by France
Did not the ambnfTador of France, in 1778 d . ,
liver , paper to the British court, declaring,' that
the French nation had entered into a treaty with
the United States, and at the fsr.e time, 'stated
that great attention had been paid by the contrac
ting parties, not to iiipulate any exclulive advantage
to the French nation, and that theie w?s reserved,
on the part of the United States, the liber'y of
treating with every other nation whatfover, upon
the fame footing of equality and reciprocity. But,
fays the gentleman (Mr. Giles) no advantage ought
to pe given to an eliemy. Mr. Williams ohferved,
that be was convinced that no advantage was rive 1
to Britain ; but, ort the contrary, the article com
plained of, mull, in. its operation be beneficial to
I'rance; as it is an encouragement for American
vefiels to go to their ports. It ensures them aoaM j
loss, if they happe 1 to be interrupted in their v •
age.Mr. Williams that with refpeft to thf
gentleman''! oSjeft ons refpefting the Journals, he
hoped, that, as the opjofiiton was against the Pre
fiJest, for his in nnt being drawn in
to a war, to embrue ourjiands in the blood of one
nation, to gra ify the hatred, or serve the interest
of another, we fh uild now (at it was >lie lad time)
agree to the report, andaltbo' thfc gentleman (Mr.
Giles) supposed it to be the interest of France to
go to war with us, yet hr did not think so ; but if
ic was their interest, nothing would (lop
It was the interest of this country to be at peace,
and he would do «very thing confident with the
honour of bu> nation keep so.
Let us, said Mr. Williams, individually endea
vour to eradicate from our minds those opinions,
which we may ha»e allowed to acquire a growth
th„t overfhades the dilates of unbiased truth and
justice ; let us each individually confjder, whether
we have not Allowed our immediate and particular
interells to influence our public condu-t ; and wir4i
a view to temporary advantage to ourselves, 41'ven a
fan ft ion to measures, which, unless imely checked,
mny put in hazard those biding! whieh a conftitu
tioi) founded like the cOuftitution of the United
States, not on the vision of a heated or diltemper
ed imagination, but on principles winch unchecked
in their operations, byjhe arm of violence, or raif
reprefer.tation of calumny, mull iiercffarily pro
duce, and when we (hall have traced t hem in the wis
dom. which direftec', .ritd ti ehi mnefs which ef
fect;:.! the revolution, I t us then cokdder the man'
who hat h been the inflrument.
Th'e ccmm ittee rose, had le,.ve to-fit again, and
the house adjourned.
Thursday, December 15-
In Committee of the whole house. on the answer to
the Prefidents'i kddrefs.
Mr. Nicholas halt vifhrd to have had this business
fettled as agreeably as possible. He thought himfelf
at liberty to Vote for the paragraph now before the
com ittee, because he was faiisfled that the pi efent
admin, ration had, in many instances been wile ar.d
firm. InriAiE a Irefs it could no.t be meant to include
pending meitfures. • He should think himfelf wrong if
heforehore.o expreisthc • gret .which hk, conftuuents
felt tor the retiring or ti 1 e I'refident from offne. Mr.
N eholas, however, ccnfiSercd the style of compli
mei as too strong. —He imagined that it might be
bett i-Mprefled for the fake of general accommoda
tion to 11.e ftntimi nts of members.
Mr. Rutherford Umen ed that gentlemen should
have a milt.iked zeal for the Frefiden' by introducing j
expedients into the answer before them which could;
jiot be fwlifcribed unanimously. The division of fenti- j
tnent which had taken place in the Jioufe on the ocea- s
lion, would give the world an idea that there was a j
putv who criminate the President, 3nd to j
rfb him of those patriotic virtues which he polFefied. f
There was no'uch thing. Eveiy oneand his c. ileagucs j
amcngd; the reft, esteemed the virtues of that great 1
man; and if there had been any flip in his condufl,
the American people were generons and knew that to j
err was human, and that other perfonswere equally to •
blame with hi.n He was sorry, therefore to fee so
warm a zeal, endeavouring to grasp at too much.
They werf not only toxonfider the wisdom and patri
otism ot our chief magidrate and great deliverer un
der divine providenee but also the situation 111 which
we stand with refpeft to the Republic of France. We
seemed to be in a delicate situation, and we ought to
ai3 with the greatest coolness and circlimfpedtion.
He therefore hoped, the answer would be so amended
as to pass unanimously.
Mr. Livingdon honed the answer to the address
of the Prelidetit would have been so drafted, as to
have avoided this debate, hie (I'll hoped, that the
candour of the gentlemen who advocated iliin ad
dress, and of those who opposed it, would admit
of fu h amendments, as might make it p«fs unani
mously. With this view, when the piefent motion
was difpofrd of, he should move to itt ilce out some
words, for the purpose of inserting otl.eti. He had
not the f<me pinion of the firft paragraph propos
ed to be I 1 11 k out by the gentleman from Virgi
nia with other gentlemen. It did not appear to
him to draw confutation from the misfortunes of o
ther nations ; and the comparison of a gentleman,
who had likened our litualion t» that of members
of the fame family, had considerable weight upon
his mind. The only objection he had to the para
graph, was to the single exprcfiion of «' tranquil
prosperity." He did not think that the present fi
tuatinn of the UniteJ States would warrant such
an exprefiion. There hmilar objections to o
ther pai-tsof the address, which might- easily be re
moved by amendments. He should therefore votea
gaintl (liikingout the eight clauses.ii order that ihey
might be amended, so as to prove generally accept
able.
Mr. Giles's motion was then put and negatived_
Mr. Parker wished to renew his motion for fink
ing out the words "freeft and mofl enlightened ia
the world."
Mr. Harper believed his motion would fupercede
that of the gentleman just fat dowß, because it
.contemplated the finking out of a greater portion
of the answer, and because it had already been
fuhtni ted to the hotife. Having already given his
Teafons for wishing his motion to prevail, he should
not again trouble the house with them, but merely
submit it to their decision. Jt was to strike out all
that part of the answer, from the words " retire
ment from office," at the end of the seventh, para
graph, to the words " may you long, &c." at the
beginning of the lafl; and to insert " and to avail
ouifelves of this occasion, since no suitable one may
heteaftcr occur, of disclosing those warm emotiooi
of refpeft, gratitude and affection, with which we,
nolefs than our constituents, have been inspired bjr
a life, equally illudrious for the wisdom, integrity
and patriot ism whereby in public conduct have been
guided, and fortunate in the happy influence which
the exercise of those virtaei has produced on the
prosperity of our country."
« Mr. Freeman obje&cd to the substitute offered
by Mr. Harper, because it did not contain a feati-
Hient in the original which he very much approved,
viz. " Yet we cannot be unmindful, that your mo
deration and magnanimity twice displayed by retir
ing from your exalted stations, afford examples no
less rare and indruftive to mankind, than valuable
to a republic."
Mr. Harper he had no objection ts the ad
miffmn of that fentimcnt into his substitute.. which
<afily be done.
1 Mr. Ames hoped the motion to strike out wsuH
not prevail. Ihe original, he said, having been
printed and in the hands of members, had the ad
vantage of being well weighed, and he trusted ge
nerally approved : but any substitute would not
have that advantage, beft.lesthat he ihotight the
Sentiments being crowded together iu the way pro
posed, would drag Ijeavily along.
The motion was put and negatived, there being
only 25 votes foi it.
Mr. Parker then urged his motion.
Mr. W. Smith hoped tha words in question
would not be druck out. The reason aligned yes
terday fordriktng out these words was that thiv
might offend other nations who conceived them
selves :.s free and enlightened as we. Gentlemen
did not fay wh t nation wntild take umbrage; but
he supposed they alluded to the French reptibli<.
If, however, he could shew those gentlemen tha t
that republic had uled a fimilitf language, in wtrich
they called themselves the grealefl nation in the
world, he trull :hhey wou'd feci easy as far as tc
fpedled any offence to 'hem. In looking ovei'
some papers, he had met with fever a! bomballical '
expressions in a note of Baithe'cmy s, a report to
the convention of Liaiiviere, sn.l of CumHaceres in
the mm; of the three committees He iead
and hoped they would remove from the minds of
gentlemen all ideas of offence to the French repub
lic.
Mr. Parker said, he m ide this motion he I
neitluT had the F ench Republi: in view nor pny o
ther nation His objection o'he expression was,
that if we were more free and enligh ened than o
thers, it was not becoming in tis to nuke the decla
ration. Our government, ht said, was as free as
any inexi.tence; and as to our being enlightened,
we might be more so than otheis. His ohjeclion
went againd the declaration. But, however enlight
ened we might be, our enlightened uriderllanding
had been far exceeded by-Deumatk and Sweden,
who had p'refeived their neutrality amidst tljej irring
intcrefls of iturope—their vessels could pals uamo
led ed on the ocean ; eyen the Helvetic Republic'
had preserved i:s neutrality mviolate. The Teamen j
of these countries were not seized and carried on !
boatd men of war, nor diot for leaving their pi ifoo
ships. The brother of a member of that house, he
said had been (hoi at in this fu nation. It was true,
he was not killed, but the {hot w.is levell«Ua' him
Was this, be afkr.l, preferring our digni' y ? When
the gentlemen from Maffat hufetts (Mr. Ames)
lad fcfiion fpokc of the p-ob»bility, of a wai with
Great-Briiain, hi said, ihe was armed at all points
l.ke a Porcupine. It was then our business t« be
quiet—to Ihu: ouifelves up in a (hell like a Tor.
toife. Pea e was to be preserved at any rate ; wh/fl
the British were frizing our property and inipreffing
our seamen, whom they f ourged and treated ia the
mod cruel manner, yet a'l must be (till, not a word
about reliflance. When the Executive feiit an En
voy to treat with the British he tru:U I to
the judice and magnanimity of h»-ni jelly ! Was
this fit language lor this country to In Id to Bri
tain i The moll petty principality in Europe would
have thought itfelf 'ebafed by such a coir net.—
What was the result ? A Treaty. This
was the aft of an adminiflration which they uere
called upon to appl ud. He yet believed the Pre
liderit wife and virtuous, but he had, perhaps, per-,
sons about him who had advised him to this unwil'c
and impolitic aft
The gentleman from Maffj' hufetts (Mr. Ames)
had told them, we were on the eve or a war with
France ; the greatell nation, said Mr. Parker, on
earth, a nation who was fighting in the cause of h
berty, and who had carried bet vietoijfs to every
part of Europe, whose exploits in war Rorye never
exceeded. This he thought was not a fitu.ttion in
which to exult. We may, said he, think well of
ourselves. He believed the people to be wife, the
government good, but the adminillratioH bad. The
gentleman from Mafiachufeus had said, we are dc
firuus of peace ; but if the Fr. nch are determined
011 war, we are ready to meet them. Where heaf
ked, were our (hips, or out armies ? This gentleman
had told them lafl feflivn of the tomahawk and of
the mother bleeding over her hild. He would not
deal in metaphor with tha! gentleman, but he would
ask him for his confidency. Why peace with Eng
land, but with France, fay we are ready to meet !
them ? Where was the lafl war ? Did he meet the i
enemy ? He believed not. But addsci he, I saw
such cruelties committed by the British, as would
make the flouteft shudder!
Mr. Parker said when Gen. O'Hara left Portf
mauth he went into it and fonnd a house as large as
that hall full of people ill of the small pox, many of
them blind, whom O'Hara had left without a nurle
or any assistance.—The gentleman from S. Carolina
had seen a British eourt ; he had not. He had seen
some of their lord s indeed, but he found them like other
fmen.—lf, he faiil, ihe French made war upon this
country,he should certainly fight against them. He
did not fear them ; but he disliked to take up arms
againftafrre people. Kingcraft and Prieftcraft had
too long governed the world with an iron rod : more
enlightened times, he trusted, were approaching and
he hoped ere long republicanism would cover the earth
—He wished the words to be itruck out.
Mr Harper said he did not feel the least difpoGtion
to follow the gentleman just fat down through" his een
fures on our own adminillration. Nor did he fee what
relation this had to the matter in hand. The question
was, whether we ihould make the declaration before
them or not. And lie thought the thing of little coa
fequenee ; because, if we were the most free and en
lightened, it was well, and other nations would fee it
Why, then, travel into a field of inveflive against ad
ministration. Suppose this was as base as he could
make it, it would not follow that all the reft of Ameri
ca were wicked. If all his aflcrtioiis were true, there
fore, he might vote against his own motion.
A great deal, Mr. Harper •bferved, had been
said about pacifice intentions, war, &c. Strangers,
or gentlemen who had net heard the whole »f the
debate, would suppose, that the question before the
committee was the fubjeft of a declaration of war,
tho' Jx was merely to determine whether we should
call ourselves free and enlightened. Yet the gen
tleman from Virginia was very pacifically inclined to
all natious. The sum and fubftanee of the whole
ftoty was, that this gentleman was pacifically in
ciined towards the nation which seemed to have hof.
tile views against this cauntry. He hoped, how
ever, they IhouM oot eater «a fields of discussion,
which could enljr fcrve to irritate End prolong the
business, nor give scope to their recollection of every
thing that had been pleaflngor difpleafmg to them,
but vote on the simple question. The gentleman
from Virginia had said, that when compared to
Denmark, Sweden, or the Helvetic republie, our
. administration had beeuveiy unwise indeed. Now
it happent, fat'd Mr. Harper, that the gentleman
has been very unfortunate in his comparison ; for
Sweden and Denmark submitted to the fame kind
of treatment which we have submitted to. At to i
the Swiss cantont, thiy were in alliance with the
only Ration that could fuccefsfully annoy them, ow
ing to their inland and mountainous situation. He
j did not fee therefore any wisdom in their condutt.
Whilst, said he, with many difficulties on our hands,
we have (till preserved peace, Snd efeaped the effe&s
of European broils, much better than any of us
expe&ed.
[Debate to be continued.J
Mon»ay, Becember 19.
The milii in bill was taken up in committee of
•lite whole. The fitll provides for a division
of the militia into two clatles, the firft to comprise
those between 20 and 25 years of age, the other
rbofe between 25 and 40; the firft clafl to devote
a ronfiderable portion of time in military duties,
the other to lie conflicted as a corps de reserve. The
principle of this fe&ion was ohje&ed to, on account
'chiefly of the gieat expense of time and money
whici) tjie execution of the pian would require, and
it was moved to ftrikeit out. A motion, however
was made for the rising of the committee, which
obtained, and the committee obtained leave to fit
again.
On motion of Mr. Livingfton, a committee was
appointed to enquire and report, by bill or other
wise, what alterations appeared necefiary in thepe
nal code of the United States.
A petition from Stephen Moylan, commissioner
of loans lor the ft ate of Pennsylvania, praying an
ercreafe of salary, was read, and referred to the
committee on that fubjeA.
| Mr. Gallatin obtaiised leave of absence for ten
! days.
Mr. Harper moved, that the committee bf the
whole fbould be difefnrrged from further
the militia bill, with a view that it should be re
committed to a fcleft committee. The motion was
"iTFgatived. '
On motion of Mr. Heath, resolved, that a com
mittee be appointed to enquire whether any and
what alteration ought to be made in the existing
law?, to enforce the payment of monies due the
United States, by the different officers of the reve
nue. Adjourned.
Philadelphia^
TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 10 1796^
RUTUKN OF Votbi . £ . e « ~
rou 7- J 5 5 au, > §
PRESIDENT
AND > •> . ig •» -q
"1 iTI * p pHfe r?ld
iN T cvv-H*i.f>fhire, j~~6 6
Maflachtil'tlts, i 1
!<ho(l«-iltand, 4 4
Connecticut, 9, 4 5
Vermont, j r
New-York, 1213
New Jerily, . 7I 7
Pennsylvania, 1 214 13
Delaware, 3 3I 1
Maryland, 7 4,] 43] 1
Virginia, X 1 10 115 31
Kentucky,
T T.nefiee,
North-Carolina, 11116 1
South-Carolina,
Georgia,
Total,
Marriid, last Evening, by the Rev. Dr. Rogers,
Mr. Edward Harris, Merchant; late of England,
to Miss jANt UsTipK, daughter of the Rev. Mr. Uf
tick, of this city.
This day his Excellency Thomas Mifflin was
proclaimed Governor of this Commonwealth with
the cuilomary formalities.
The New York papers by this day's mail, fay it
; it probable that Edward Li*ingllon, Esq. it re
elected a member of Congreft.
The ship C.harleflon, capt. Garman, is arrived in
the river, in 7 days from Charleston.
On Saturday, at twelve o'clock, agreeably to ap
i pointment, Dr. Rush delivered his Eulogium in
: the Prefbytetian Church, in High street, on the
i late Mr. The Doctor commen
-1 j ccd his Oration with an account of the birth of the
; | great philosopher whose eulogy he wat about to
| make, and proceeded to give an account of all the
material tranfafliont of his life, till he came to the
1 awful period of his death, in all which he found
■ occasion to pay the highest tribute of praise to the
deceased. Indeed, we believe, we (hall be joined
1 in sentiment by all who heard it, in pronouncing
the Oration a mod masterly composition, and that
it was pronounced with all the ability of an Qra
tor and with all the feeling of a Friend. The
. Church was exceedingly full, but very attentive.
1 The President of the United States, the Member!
•f Congreft,. and of the Legislature of this State,
' the foreign Ministers, the Philosophical Society,
Medical Students, &c. were a part of the auditory
on this solemn and affe&ing occasion.
►
» FOR THI GAZETTE OF THI UNITIfc STATES.
! Mr. Fehno, •
TN a pamphlet published yeflerday, under the
> title of " An Address to certain Bank Dire&ors,"
is contained the following paragraph :
" A certain bank direhor applied to a Jiationtr
some short time ago, te have a hantffome bank
book made. After the flstioner had completed
, hit work, agreeable to order, k« wat so mech
pWed with it« elegance, that he refolded to furn]lh
hirofelf with one equally handsome, and exafHy
like it. A few days aftet, the fiationet Tent his
new and pretty bank boo 1 ? to the bask, to get a
small note n/roU in. To his furprije hi» pretty
book was returned with • credit for a note which
had been discounted (roR the Director) for
eighteen thousand dollar*. The accidental refem
' blance et two elegant bank books caafcd this mif
rake ; but it also discovered a fafl that points with
tilent eaergy at the bank proceedings."
The stationer alluded to, deems it but justice to
the bank director in qncftion, ro dcclare, that the
whole contents of the a bore paragraph are abfo
lately deftitutc of even the ftnallell shadow of foun
dation. M. C.
December 20, 1796.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
BALTIMORE, Dec. 17.
ANOTHER. FIRE IN SAVANNAH.
Captain Hughes who arrived yellerday from Sa*
vanuah, which h? left on the 6th inft. we learn,
blings a* account of another fire in that unfortu
nate city. Not having seen captain Hughes, we
could not obtain any further particulars than that it
occurred a day or two previous to his failing, occa
fioncd, perhaps, by the fmoaking ruins of the late
fire ; and that twenty more houlcs had been laid ia
afhei.
NEWBERN, December 3.
A letter from Soath Citiolina, states, that Mr.
Pinckney will undoubtedly have all the votes of
the electors of thatftate, for Vice PreCdent of the
United State! : but that the vote* for Piefident
will be considerably divided between Me(T r s. Adams
and Jefferfon.
The honorable brigadier-general Benjamin Smith,
Esq. iseleited speaker of the Senate, and the hon.
John Leigh, Esq. speaker of the lioufe of Com
mons.
Pantheon,
AND RICKETTS's AMPHITHEATRE.
Corner of Chefnut and Sixtli-ftreets.
For Equestrian and Stage Performances.
To-morrow evening, Wednesday, Dec. 21,
Will be presented the following entertainments, viz.
HORSEMANSHIP,
by the Equsftrian troop.
A Comedy, in two A&s, called,
The Lying Valet.
Sharp (the Lying Valet) Mr. Chamber*
Gaylefs, Mr. Jones
Jullice G tittle, Mr. Durang
Beas Trippet, Mr. Tompkins, and
Dick, Mr. Sully
Mali(Ta, Mils Robinson
Mis. Gadabout, Mrs. Durang
1 Mrs. Trippet, Mrs. Tompkins, and
Kitty Pi-y, Mis. Chambers
A COMIC DANCE, tailed
The Dwarff ; or,
The Warrior''s Wonder.
A SongbyMifs Robin^n.
In the course of the evening, a Duet by Mr,
and Mrs. Chaiirbers.
The whole to conclude wi'h the Grand Pantomine of
Don Juan ; or 5/
The Libertine Dejlroyed.
:£s* Doors to open at 5, and the Performances to com
mence at a quarter after 6 o'clock.
* # * The days of performances, to be Monday, Wed
nefday,Friday and Saturday.
CAUTION,
WHEREAS very hrge and heavy debts are justly
due and owing from meflrs. Blair M'Clenaehan and
Patrick Metre, ef the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
trading under tf;e firm of Blair M'CUnachan antl P.
Moore, and from Blair M'Ctenachan in his separate
capacity; to which, by the laws of the land, ail tha
joint as well as separate property of the said Gentle
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereas
it i» clearly and fatisfa&orily ascertained, that mr.
Blair M'Clenaehan, of thr said firm, has conveyed
away to mr. John H. Httftor., his son-in-law, to his
daughter, miss M'CUnachan, and to his son, George
M'Clenachan, several large and valuable real estates,
as well as considerable personal property, in the city
and county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancas
ter, in the county of New-Castle on Delaware, and
elsewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.—
This is, therefore, to forewarn all persons whamfo
ever, against the purchase from the fsid grantees, or
either of them, of any portion of the said real or per
sonal property, as the molt vigorous mcafures will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
the just demands of the Creditors.
»y order of the Creditors.
Thomas Fitifimons, ~~l
• Philip Nicklin, I
Isaac Wharton, r Committee;
William M' Murtrie, 1
Samuel W. Fi/her,
Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. aoth.J
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Eltate,
CALLED TtVITTKNHAM, situate in the
townlhip of Upper Derby, and county 01 Delaware,
7 i-» miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
new Weftera road: containing 230 aarts of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, ,ahd the rell arable of the firft quality. There ai%
; on theprediifes a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, (fables,
and other convenient buildings; a fraoke-houfe and (tone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are a# in clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and tha
vicinity to the city, it is Very suitable for a gentleman'*
country feat.
The foregoing is put of the estate of Jacob Harman,
dece&fed, and otfer*d forfait by
Mordecai Lewis,
OA* gt. taw Surviving Sxscutor.FOR SrILE,
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT \1 miles from this City, situate in Abington
Township, Montgomery-County ; containing jo ]
acres, a new {lone house, two stories high, 2 rooms on u ]
floor,fire places in each, a stone kitchen and stone ipring {
Ivoufe, over an excellent spring of water, a barn, stable, t
sheds, barracks, &c. A large apple orchard, and a variety j
of other fruit, about I a acres of goed meadow well water
ed, and wood fufficient for fire, and fencing the place.
Possession maybe had the lft of April next. Property in ]
this City will be taken in exchange. Enquire it No. 37,
Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, September 13,1796. tt.tf
TO BE SOLD,
A LEASE for fruen years, from the 2 $tb iJkreb next, in that
capital and beautiful FARM, called.
P R O S P E C T-H ILL,
Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Brandywine
Mil!*, and half a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
THE dwelling house is built of stone, two stories high,
genterlv Snilhefl, and comainsfour handsome rooms on
1 floor, besides an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
cellars, It is generally thought to command the molt a
rrceable profpeft of the Delaware, from the fouice of that
rivet to the Capes. This prolpefl ia greatly einbi-llilhed by
a full view of a vast b®dv ot meadow, through which the
Christiana and Brandywine creeks are seen winding in beau
tiful meanders. Near the house are a Kitchen, a spacious
stone stable and hay loft, a barn, a carriage house, miTn
houre, See. and a well of as pure water as any on the contl
nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land, a
bounding with fruit, and particularly with peach trees, of
,he very belt kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear
•ng. There is, moreover, on the place, a young, apple
orchard to bear, and several old trees that produce
abundantly, betides cherry and other ornamental trees, m
great numbers. The farm consists of near sixty acres of land,
of good quality, and clear ot incumbrances, except taxes,
twenty of which are now in excellent clover and timothy,
and ten more will be ready tor lowing next spring. i re
fidenee ot nearly 8 year! has convinced the fubfenber that
the situation is remarkably healthy The great poll roa.
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within teventv
yards of the house. In a word, the beauties and conveni
ence of this iituation eannot be enumerated in an advertife
tnsnt, and when examined, will probably command the at
tention of any person who is detirous of living at one of the
moll elegant country feats on the continent. The purehaler
may enter on the premil s net spring, or prrhaps, this (all,
if application be immediately made to Doctor NICHULAa
W Y ii PhiladelDhia, to Dotior u'H R1 ON, on the
yremiies, or, in his ablence, to Mr GEORGE THU' ' T, in
Wilmington. .
A quantity of excellent Hav, Grain in the ground some
Stock, See. may be lwd by the purcnaler at the time of sale.
Nov. ,
James M'Alpin, layior,
No. 3, South FourthJireet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
*nd begs leave to fo'.icit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive aflortment of the
Mojl Fajhimable GOODS,
And of the bed quality, suitable for the season.
At this shop Gentlemen can be furniftied withthe fceft
materials, and have them made up in the neatest and mofl
Fashionable manner, and on the ihorteft notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
puß&ual attention; to them.
November io.
The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpedt fully informed, that
this animal is to be l'fn every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Market
ftreet, No. 106, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-ftrcet6.
Admit .ance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
03" At the requell of many persons it will be
exhibited on evenings from five to ei>rhr o'clock,
at half a dollar each—The room will be well
lighted. November 7.
Treasury of the United States.
"TKI OTICE is hereby given to all persons who ?.re or
X\ may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums '
of th e Funded Debt, or Stocky bearing a present interef of fix
4er centum per annum.
1 ft, That purfuantto an Ad of Congress parted on the
aßth day of April, 1796, intitledan a£t in addition to an
a<ft, intituled " An a& making further provision for the
support of public cr«dit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the faiddebf or flock will be rcimburfed and
paid in manner following,to wit. " First, by dividends
» to be made on the lail days of March, June and Septem
" ber for the present year, and from the year onethoufand
• c seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou
•« sand eight hundred & eighteen tnclufive, at the rite of
» one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lall day of
44 December for the present year, aad from the year one
44 thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
44 one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at
-» 44 the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" ginal capital ;and by a dividend to be ma?e on the last
44 day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
u dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
-44 quate, according to the contract, for the final redemp
-44 tion of the said flock."
ad. All diftin&ion between payments on account of
ntere/l and Principal being thus abolished by the eftabliftig
jnent of the permanent rule of reimbursement above de
cribed, it has become necessary to vary accordingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
reditors will therefore x obferve that the following form
1 s established for all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BT THESE PRESENTS, that
I of
do male, conflitute and appoint
ej my true and lawful At
torney,fir me, and in my name, to receive the dividends which are,
or Jball be payable according io law, on the (here describing the
QcocVyjlanaing in my name in the books of (here defcribingj.the
books of the Treasury or the Commifiioncr of Loans,
where the Hock is credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney 1S to coatinile) with power also an attorney or attor
tties under him, for that purpose to make andfubfiitutc,aiidto do all
iaiejul a£ts requifttefor ejf'eflingthepremifes, hereby ratifying and
tonfrming all that my said Attorney or hisfubflitute,ftaU lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof. ,
In Witness hereof \ I have hereunto set my Hani ajid> Seal tbs
day of in the year
Sealed and Delivered
in presence tf,
BE IT KNOIVN, that on the day tf
eforc me personally came
loithin named and acknowledged the above Utter of attorney to be
his aft and dsed.
In tejlimony whereof I have hereunto set my Han I«nd affix
id Seal the day and year la ft aforfaid.
Given und«sr my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to diredions
from the Secretary of the Treasury
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Irtafurer tf the United States.
July 3s. «, If, tlj
The Par trier flip belivetn 1
Israel Whelen and Joseph J. Miller,
Trading under the firm of Whelen & Miller, was
Ditlolved, by articles of agreement, 011 the 15th day of
February last ; but the said Joseph had a right, by the
said articles, to life the name of the firm for a certain
time, which lias now expired, and of which this pub
lic notice is given.
All persons indebted to the said co-partnership will
please to make payment to Joseph J. Miller, to enable
him to adjust and discharge the debts due from the
company.
Israel IVheUn,
Joseph J. Miller. 1
Philadelnliin, December 16, 1796 17*
Hori'es taken in,
For the Winter Season,
And fVd on clover hay at the Subscribers place, 12
! n iles on the Brifto! Road, where good stabling is pro
vided, and great tare will be taken of then)
William Bell.
Nov. 23. towfjtwmthtf.
Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an
elc&ion for twelve Directors lor the ensuing year will be
held at the on Monday the 9th of January at ten
o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Calhier.
Dec. 6. §'9l-
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second smebt.
TICKETS in-the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a
Check Cook for examination—and prizes paid in
she late'lnttery.
Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Wafhingtorf; No. a, »nd Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
titkets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wiftt to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Note?, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
*„* Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dalkrs each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
Phftadelnlwa, Augufi 18, mt^
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third flreet-oppofite the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FRAUNCtS and JOHN VA N REED,
have entered into co-partncrlhip, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the bufmefs of Brokers,
Conveyancersand CommifTion merchants. They buy and
fell on commission every lpecies of stock, notes of hand,
bills of exchlnge, houses and lands, See.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c f
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
molt correift manner. Conflant attendance wUI be given.
They solicit a share of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philiid. August 27, 1796- m&wtf
City of Walhington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, Mo. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 I THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & ?
'Idwelling-houfe, 5 "'h 30,000, are 5 '
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 25,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & cafr. 5,000 10,000
I cafli prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are ■ 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
jo do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. iod - • 10,000
200 do. 50 10,000
40Q do. 25 • - 10,000
1,000 do.' 20 - 20,000
15,000 do. 10 - 150,000
16,739 Prizes.
334261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickcts,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the la»t drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money |
or prizes, in ten days'alter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpeeimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Wafliington—
Two beautiful defigi* are already fele&ed for the entire
f fronts on two of the publfc squares; from these prawing*
3 it ispropofed toereel two centre and four corner buildings,
■ as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
- them, when completes, to the fortunate adventurers, in
: the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
1 A nett dedu&ioi? of five per cent, will be made to defray
; the necefiary expenses of printing, the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the
t University, to be erccled within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
Old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
- after it is finilhed ; and any prizes for which fortunate
, numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the
: drawing is closed, are to be considered as given toward#
; the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
, the whole bufinefsin a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
f The real securities given for the paymont of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Djre&ors of the Bank
I of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
{ mount ot the lottery. ;
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiflioners aflifted in the management of the
j Hotel Lottery are requefled to undertake this arduous task
a second time on of the public ; a fufficient num
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jects may contiwue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
? Continent as well as fpom Europe, where the tickets
have been font for sale, the public are afTured that the
. drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necefTary to insure a fafe disposal of
ths tickets, has rendered the fhon fufpcr.fion indiipcnlable.
t SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Boston ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells 1
Cooper's Ferry. ««
SALT PETRE.
A larjie quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 25, South Third-street.
November 5.
VVafhington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, froai th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz--I Prize of 10,000 dollars, to,ooo
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7laftdrawn") ,
Tickets, each j S '°°° 35fi00
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
20 ditto 100 a,OOO
55 ditto 50 2,750
STSO ditto 12 69,00$
To be raised for tlw Canal, 26,15®
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
J7500 Tickets, atTenDollars, - 175,000
The Comniiffioners have taken the Securities re
quired hy the aforefaid a& for the punctual payment oi
the prizes.
The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as loon as thr Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finifhed, (hall be considered as relinquiihed for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(SignedJ NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARKOLL, of D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEOKGE WALKER,
W«. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BAIWtY.
City of WaCiipgion, Feb. 11. 5
Paterlon Lottery.
FOR raising fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen ji,er
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
I 1000 1000
i s°o i°o
5 »oo lOCO
so 100 4000
99 S° 495°
200 2J J°°°
2000 10 20,000
5 Last drawn numbers of 1-900 dollars each, 5000
2332 Prizes. 44>4J0
40 j 8 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45 c
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftabliOi
ing UfefulManufaftures, the fuperintendants of the Pat
erion Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Ssheme to the public, and have dire&ed them
to refund the money to those persons who have purehafed
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
n this Lottery.
The lottery has adtually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finiihed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ol William Blackburn, Nt>. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
y. N• GUMMING, ")
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, f Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Prize of 5000 ... 5000
I 1000 - - - 1000
I 500 - 500
5 aoo . iooo
20 100 - - 2000
90 50 45°°
165 25 41*5
The five last drawn tickets, 1000 each, 5000
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor
tion of the ro dollars.
As the Lottery is considerably more than one third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly increased, and it is worth the notice of those
who hold tickets in thoold scheme, that they can ex
change tjieir tickets for thole in the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance considering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be oftener, and the Lottery soon finiihed.
November 12. mws j
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South SecondJlrest.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For raifmg Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of
the Lcgiflature of Pennfylvatiia, palled dining the last
' feflion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
1 Berks. Dollars,
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollacs - 20,000
1 do. of ie,ooo do. • - io,coo
3 do. of 5,000 do. - 15,000
4 do, of 2,000 do. • - 8,000
to do. of i,eoo do. - - - 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. - . >9*500
i 8a do. of »oo do. ... 16,00©
aoo do. of 100 do. «• - - 20,00 c
t 300 do. of 50 do. - - 15,000
1 do< of 500 do. to be paid the posses- >
for «f the lirit drawn no. { °
c do* of 3,000 do. to be paid poflefTors )
of tjie fire iaft drawn nos {
9,400 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000
10,051 Prixes i 300,000
10,046 Blaaks -
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prizes (hall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
finiihed, upon the demand of a polTeflor/ of a fortunate
ticket, fubjeft to a deduction of twenty per cent. The
' Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets arc difpoftd
" of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William IVit man,
\ J°f e pk Hiejleri James Diemer, Thomas Dun das,
t James May, John Otto, John Keim y Daniel Graejf,
1 Sebajiian Miller, Commissioners.
I Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 1, to be had at the
above office, where the earlieit information of the draw
f ing of the "Washington No. 2, and Patterfon Lottery's,
: are rcceivcd, and check books for examination and regif
4 tering are kept.
Q&ober 7. jawtf
Le Breton,
SURGEON-D E NT IST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Oentift to the'
King and Royal Family of France, memher of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete afiortmjnt of every thiiig neteflary
to be used for the
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minora I Teeth, and Human & "ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder; Opiate; excellent Elixir Tor
sweetening the mouth and preferring the teeth —he
also fumilhes Brulhes and foft Sp'riges.
* # * He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
Fourth-street.
November 16. tts
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open Mon
day the 3ill inft. at ten o'clbck in the morning, at hi«
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'cioek
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new cotillio»s, he means too
introduced variety of Scotch Reuls-
Note. The firft pra&ifmg ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, N0.134, Market
ftreet.
Q&. 17. tthf
A Ma/iufaitory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa£tory, Situate
in a convenient part ol the city ; the works almost new,
on an entirely .-original con{Uu£tion, and built of the . Left
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
whowiflito pujrenafe, arc requeued to apply at No 273,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f tf
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AWAY from the fubferiber on the 23d O&ober,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; n years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mked green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped veil ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. If is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accustomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will W
paid for fccuring him i'o that the fubferibef- may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamber!,tine. Y
Eaftcn, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 £miaawtf
Samuel Richardet
D ESPECTFULLY informs the Qentlemta
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CiTY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in.thc
city of Philadelphia.
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com-/
mercial citiss of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors froniLondon and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliefl
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly k*pt for conveniency, the JBillof Fare to be had
at the- bar. j
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
Sv4UEL Richardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
lirge; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledge*
himfelf that nothing on his part (hall be wanting to pre*
fervethat patronage with which he has been so diitinguiQi
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April IQ. rnwf
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals wilj be re
ceived at'the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for thefupply of all rations which may. he required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of.May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places and within (he diftrl£ts here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara ;at
Pjefque Ifie; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sandulky
River; at Detroit ; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Fraak
lin; at Pittlburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Foft-Harailton 5
at Fort St. Ciair; at Fort-Jefterfon; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Foi't
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Stsuben ; at Fort Maffac ; at any plaee from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
Miflifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies {hall be required lor any posts or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies shall be fur
nifhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contra6lor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon, )
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiskey.
One quart and half a pint of fait."*\
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( . . .
Two pounds of Soap, ( P er hundred ratlsn »
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities, as that
(here ihall at all times during the laid term, be fuflicient
for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, ant) Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term, of
at lealt three months in advance, in .good and wholelome
provifions,ifthefamofhall be required. It is to be ur
derllood, that the Contra.s,o» isto beat the exwnce and
risk of ilfuirgthe fuppliss t6 the tropps ateach poll, and
that all losses sustained by the depredations, of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, fliall be pai«t
for at the price of the articles captured or dt-flroyed, on
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable ch_-
ra&crs, and the certificate of a commiffioncd officer, as
certaining the circumstances of the loss, aad the amount
of the ai tides for which compensation fliall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the 'I reafury.
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. xi 9—
CMESNUT-ST R/E E T.
[Price Fight Dollars par Annum.}