..
(gazette 0 /^'lEiltteU States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NVMBE* 1241-1 FRID AT EVENING, SEPTEMBER 2, 1796. . [VoLrMt X.
. — ■ ■ . _ —" _. _ . ' ~ ~ , _ .. 1 1 r!v/)/rf it 'T"Dn<ru sivd must >.
For Fredericksburg |$t.<
Or any port.on Rappahannociv river, Land:
I The fa.t Tailing SCHOONER
, N?fiort Hugene, matter; a remarVa
brTgood vJRI. not one year old, the most ma erial part
- of her frame being loeuft, mulHerry, and black walnut.
F»r farther particulars apply to said mailer *r the owner /<
on lurnii'''''™'' wharf. / 1
gj" TofaTl on Friday next. h
\uguft 30 *t /
ROSS & StMSON,
HAVE FOP- S LE,
EXCELLENT FOURTH PROOF
Jamaica Spirits;
And td dispose of,
The fine, fact-failing fcboop.er *
N Wfcmr SWALLOW,
K* Of Baltimore, about 140 tons burthen. 20
August 2g. dii *
For Sale or Charter, " It
THE FAST SAILING SHIP I I
LIGHT-HORSE, J
LYING at M*efT J. & R Wain's wharfs
two hundred and seventy tons burthen, a flout, ftren
•vessel, and well feund. For terms apply to A
Tofeph Anthony & Co. T\
Sept. I. ' dtf Me!
r ____ now
— ■ : : p
At South-street wharf,
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th t.-ift -Atignft,
by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and iloop Sally,
from Port-au-Prince, . t f I
300 Hhds. COFFEE,
70 Hhds. SUGAR. ,
Alfa, the cargo of the Sivrthjh- brig Gufiaf Adolphe,
copt. Rnmfrc, from Gibraltar,
ift and 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
Hazle Nuts in faeks
St. Übes SALT, for faleby
PETER BLIGHT.
jj—s For Charter,
JbdwvJ""" The said brig
} fesv Gustaf Adolphe,
ft A Swede, with a Mediterranean pass, ]
J a ver y fiuc velTei, about 200 tons bur
•he*. Aug-. 18. §*weoi*r
FOR SALE, — ' C
, £&l The (hip STAR,
John Vanneman, Mailer, —
T VINO at Walnut-street wharf, Philadel-
I 1 phia built, of live oak and cedar, will
L, tarry about 3200 barrels, is two years -
i plea: order to receive a car;o— ,; or terms apply to TJ
THOS.& JIHN KETLAND. jr^
Who have alfc forfek ikidjuJDds-C^^—conGftipg cf,_- Me
fe- wu«aTi'u?rTterhottles, he
Window G ass, 6 by 8 to «6 by 13.
Pipes in botes j
Earthen-Ware in crates. <
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, Set. ~ ]
Aug. 29 ...... !
For Sale,
Or for Charter to the Weft-Indies,
c e"r "'li S,
Philadelphia Built, '
/\F Live Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 3JOO Iter- J
' r els, now discharging.at Latimer's whavf. X'his vef- _
fel is in excellent repair, well fouud and will hear a tho
rough examination, andasfoon as discharged will be rea
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to 1
John" Vaughan.
1 July g8 5 to
FOR SALE. „
The Brig PUNCH, t
~"*An entire new vefTtlf finifhed an<3 fitted
in the best manner. Oienundred and thirty fix p
tons burthen, and will f«"il rercmkaMy fall. For u
terms applyto Mr N. Sao;e, at the Oonre tavern, tt
or to JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co. >;
26, 1790- v r °: d
For Sale or Charter,
2000 Bbls. of flour-—fhe may lie f&nt
to fca at a small expence, her fails and rigging being in ;
■very good order —apply to r
James Campbell, or
Gesrge Latimer.
& C
April 29, j
CABLES, :
From 16 to 9 i inches, for sale by
Jeremiah Warder, , ,
j u ]y lr § No 12 north Th-(lirdr«et. t
• TO BE SOLD, ;
A pair of black Coach Hoi-fes. <
For terras inquire at N®. 12 Quarry-lireet. ,
Angnft 30. -tf ;
Next iveek wilt be fvhmitted to public infpeßion,
The PROSPECTUS
Of a New Periodical Work entitled
7be United States Magazine,
And Repository of Ufeful and Entertaining Know-
■ 1 ledge;
Which willbe conduced on a new, liberal,and interest
ing clan—each number containing besides 1 the usual quan
tity of letter press, two neat engravings, and a iavouriie
foiig set to mafic. —Price only one fourth ofa d»llar ; the
publication to commence on th 6 ift of Febrnary >797)
continued monthly.
, August 26. d.
-—— —
WANTED,
,/fn APPRENTICE to the Pririing Bvfwcfs.
Enquire at this Offiie. At'.g.»9
.
. St. Croix SUGAR and MOLASSES.
i Landing from onboard th j fchooncr Little Tom, Capt.
Thomas Dennett, Race-street wharf,
A choice parcel of St. Croix Sugar,
and a few hogsheads of Moiaffes.
' For Sale by -
Pragcrs arid Cot
r /rfijuft »3 dio
-■■ ■ ' t , :—I
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
~ Of tbs beji quality and on reasonable terms,
FOR SALE BY
Philip Nicklin Ef? Co.
Auguti 26. dtf
French Goods.
Received ty the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre. dc-
Grace,
1. 20 T r !? r ' ks 1-Ladies' SHOES of all colors forts and sizes
I Cale j
1 Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS
I Ditto Fine LAWN
I Ditto best fine CAMBRIC
I Ditto Ladies' best shammy and Grenoble Gloves
For Sale by THOMAS & JofrN KETLAND.
■*»g- *4 _i_
, For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOtJSE and Lot, in Chefnut :
x\. street, between Front and Second ftrsets, in which
Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on business.
PolTeffion will be given in one month, or footer.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
. . HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April 21. §
y» _ — ..
FOR SALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
: n pipes and hoglheads
Claret, gennine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, in hoglheads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, I and 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Rudia, in barrels
Anchor c , cables, junk, bunting, tarpolfn car.vas,
Tin plates —An invoice Stationary, by
THOMAS «c JOHN KEIXAND.
July 29
A Book-Keeper,
. /"Vfc Clerk's place is wanted by aperfon properly quali-
Vj lied, and whoTe chvaAer will be found unexception'-
abK- Apply to the Pririter.
Aug. 11 * tf_
& Wm. HOLDERNKSSE,
— A - mA U'.nlx Street-
HAS rec.ived, by the latell arrivals 'rom Europe and
the Eatl Indie*, a w. II fdeAed affortmen't of Silk
■**"Mercsry, Linen Drapery and Hahsrdafherv Goods ; wliicfli
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on theloweft terms ; v
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
Some fine India muslins em*ot"idered with gold and friver
Siperfintßoofi, Jacnatt.'aad M-jlmul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffeties juttflringsand colored Perf'ahs
Bandar.o Handkerchiefs
Long and short Nankeens
Engliih Mantuas of the fir ft quality
D.»malk table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an efcgant aiTortment
Tlieadand cotton do
Umbrellas —green ftlk, oil'd do. and do 'cloth
French cathbrics, very fine
trr". i.iiieiis, do. &e. i&c. June 14 §
vef- -
i'e> A very Valuable Merchant Mill,
A DISTILLERY and BREWERY, andfunJry ffTONI
qUARRIES to be let
1 will rent my merchant Mill at the little Falls of Po
J towmac, for any term not I*6 than seven, nor more thai
eleven years, from the firft day of September next. Th
mill-houf" is 42 by 40 feet, three ilories high, built wit!
Hone, and has in it three pairs of French Burr Stones, tw
overshot i% feet water wheels, and Evans's machiner
• complete, with every other thing proper and necessary so
tte carrying on the business with tfifpatch, and at as little ea
' x perfc as possible, all in good order.—From the mill to m
For 1 iiiding on the Fetomac river, (whi re craft, of any bui
ern then may deliver grain and take in flour) it is about 4
vards, and from thence by water t«> George-Town an
the Ck) ahoilT J roiles, and to Alexar
dria about 11 miles. This situation, aided by a fufficier
capital, will command the produce of a Very cxtenfu
back country, w-here Urge quantities of wheat and oth<
grain is annually made, the distance to it being from
to 10 miles left, than to any reaiker town up.m the nav
I gation of the totowmac. There are on the premises
large stone Coopers' fh jp, a stone granary, an 4 a commi
' fvit jj; ous nufier's house. At the landing afprefaid a bridj
m i s now building over the Potomac, which is in great so
wardiiefsand probably will be finifhed thc ensuing fall,
r There'are aJfo on the premises, a Brewery and Diftill
ry, built with stone, in them are thru stills, two coppe
or boilers, with every necessary article, all new, ami
5 good order, and fufficicntly large to carry on the Irei
er'y and Distillery upon a very extenSve plan.
erty I will rent for the fame term of years.
Upon my laads adjoining the pre '.ifes, and along t'
banks of the river, where craft may lead with ease and d
• patch, is an iwnenfe quantity of building and lound
ret. tion-ftones. Four quarries are now open, and as ma:
more may be opened with ease: the stone taken from th<
quarries'is better, and has the preference at this mark'
to any other stone brought to it. i will rent these quart:
GSf separately or together 3; may best suit.
• On the top of the hill, and about 200 yards from t
mill, is a stone Dwelling-house, large enough far the e
' coicmodation of a family : also, a kitchen, dairy, frnol;
house, &c and a garden, enc ofed and in cultivation, t
, foi of which is equal in goodness to any in this state.
will also 1 ent th is pre r erty.
Adjoining to the Brewery and Distillery is a Sciitl
{hop, in which is a complete fat of Blacksmith's toe
whith 1 will also rent, and if agreeabfe I will hire to t
n0 ' r tenant two negro blacksmiths, one of them is a concpli
n. workman.
erel " it I rent out the llor.e quarries, I will fell three era!
qr-a.n- were built for the purpose o£ carrying stone : tfc
" >ur '/ e wdl altogether bring upwards of 90 perch Imme'd;
' peffeflion will be given. For terms apply to the fublcr
m wDd cr t own.
The Mill, Brewery and Distillery, withthe r appurti
ances, will be delivered to the tenant or tenants in gc
repair, and mult be so returned, at the expii-atiou of
lease ©r leases.
fs. PHILIP RICHARD FEND ALL
Alexandria, Aug. jc—9s
Sa es of- India Goods.
The Cargo ©f the Ihip Ganges, capt. Ting?y, frt>m Cal
cutta and Bengal*
OF .
Aj Large and generail affbrtment of Bengal and Madras
IX CO i TON and SILK.GOODS*
AMONG WHICH ARE . .
A vanity fine worked and plain Muslins, .
.Doreas, Vtc. AL r o, ael
A Quantity of Excdkni Sugar,
In boxes and bags-*-and BLACK PEPPKR,
For Sale by . Ai
* WiHings Francis,
No. ai Penn Street.
June. 8 •'
TAKE NOTICE, ~ A
THAT application will be made for the renetval or rj [
the following certificates, iiTuecTby-Jofeph Nourfe,
Regifier of the Treasury, in the name cf Roger Grii
wold, Esq. of Norwich, Connefiic'Jt —»
1 certificate, fix per cent domestic flock, Iso. 15,907
—dated die 17thDecember, 1795, bearing inter-eft from
the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 6.5-100 doi- '
1 c.itto, thre? per cent, domestic flock, No. 105682 f'
—dated December 16, 1795, bearing interest from the
firft day of January, 1791, for 994 JO-JOO dollars. S
1 ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th C
December, 1795, bearing interest from the firft Janu- I
i arv, 1801, for 798 83-100 dollars.
Said certificates fuppoled to hive been loft or I
stolen in this citv some time in December or Janua;y
last. ®
JOSEPH THOMAS, C
No. 59, North Front-street.
Philadelphia, July »i, d6w. ,
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an aft of Congress of the United j
Statesoi America, passed at Philadelphia, the 28th day
of May, 17g6 ; laying duties on Carriages, for tbe convey
ance of persons, and repealing the former a£ls for that pur
pose.—That there shall be levied, colle&ed and paid, upon J
3" carriages for the conveyance of persons, which Ihall be
kept by or for any person, .for his or h«r own use, or to let
out to hire, or for the conveying of passengers, the several du
lies and rates following, to wit.
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon eveiv Chariot, le dols.
upon every Pod Chariot, 12 dols;
upon every Pott 12 dols.
Upon every Phaeton, with or without top, 9 dais
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work above
with b'lnds. glalfeso'r curtains, 9 dols.
upon four wheel carriages, having framed posts and
tops with steel fptings,' 6 dols. _
unon fouT wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
' springs orjicks. 3 dols. _
upon curricles with tops', 3 dols.
uponchaifes with lops, 3 dols.
upon chairs with tops. 3 dols. . SC
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
upon oiher two wheel top carriages, 3 dolJ. _ g(
: * Hr.on two wheel carriages, with fleel or iron fpnngs.
1 3doh» ""-
Fo' and up n all otfTcYTwO
1 upon every four whe 1 carriage, having framed pofls
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 d »ls.
The Gollrftors of the Revenue of ttve firft <ur?ey of tbe p
r Periftfylvania, will attend until the 30th day
of September next, for the purpose of rcce ; v»lg the dm les on
C arriages", at No. 117, in Race or SafTafrai street, in the City
v, !of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, K in the
County of Montgomery; and ai the house of Abraham Du
bois, Esq. in ihe'County of Bucks; of \ich all persons pof
felled o: such Carriages are desired to take notiee. Q
Notice is also gi'vTen,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled spiri
tuous "iquors,that licences will be grafted to ihem ; one li
cencv fer carrying on the business of retailing ol Wines, in a
lefsquantity, or in less quantities >han 30 gallons—and one 01
licence for carrying on the business of retailing Spirituous li
quors in less quantities than >0 gallons at the fame time and
at the fame places, by thf,officers legally authorised to grant
fuck licences.
K WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeftor of the Revenue of the' firft furvef
> . of the diftriftof Pennfjlvania.
n Office of InfpeOion, at >
ie Philadelphia, 21ft July, r 70^.)
Philadelphia, Weft-Che/ler, Strajburgh, p
■y Lane after, Tork and Frederick-town
I STAGES.
r-pHE proprietors of the above Stages, return their befl.
r- X thanks to their friends and the public in general, for
to the encouragement received in this line of business, and beg
,d leave to inform the public, that they are determined to run
n- their ftage= through from Philadelphia to Lancaster in
nt one day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July instant, ~
ve ; n the following manner, —via. A Stage will set out on
ev (that day at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the house of
8 George Weed, Market street, Philadelphia, and run by
r i- the way of WeiVcnefter and Strafburgh, arrive in l.ancaf- r
a ter the fatrie evening, on Friday morning-run to Wright'.s
o- ferry and exchange passengers with the York and Fredea- t
zc ick-town stage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat- t
)r . urday, and on Monday morning following, at 4 o'clock, a
said Itage will set ou from the laid George Weed' , P' la- c
l e _ delpliia, and arrive at I.ancafter the fame cveniii on i
r . Tuesday morning at 4 p'clack will set out from the , jSfo c
m of Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia 1
w- the fame evening, and will commer.ee again on Thursday ]
,p_ , morning following, and continue every week—The price ' 1
' : {or each passenger from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three |
he dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three quar
[y. ters, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like sums for
la- i 150 weight baggage, with the usual allowance of 14 lb. (■
nT gratis to each paifenger, and 5 pence a ir.il« for all way
e f e passengers. 3° —£ 4 W
et, John Reiily,
Geprge Weed.
I ~ just Arrived,
te. In the Snow Boiten, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li
the verpool, ,
I s"-~ Bnfhels SALT ; .. ,
& lOC Cri'tei QUEENSTTARE ; ani
h's An AlTortment of SHIP CHANDLEK Y;
jJ s FOR |4Lj6
the On board, at Pine-street wharf. Apply to
ete James Campbell, Ot „
rts t George Latimer.
iev A.oril 29 ■ - J
FOR SALE,
A Complete Font of Brevier, '. ' j
en- T?Ntirely new, and yet unopened. The weight of th.»
ood Lj font is about Jl2 lb. It i* from the Foundery ei
"the Wilson & Sons,Glafgow, and will be fold at cost & charges.
Also for Sale, jt p«.;r of Super Royal Chafes. ...
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the br.i«d_
States, 119 Chefnut-ftreet. Aug 19 S* w
Great is Truth and mujt prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for fait at AV 41 Cbejnut-jlreet by J. ORMROD,
A a Apology for the Bible,
By R.-Watson, d. d. f. r. s.
Bi/bip of Ldridaff, &c..
Being a complete refutation of Paine's
Age of Rs.ifon,
A*d tffe only ir.lv. ct to the Seccnd Parr.^
Anguft jo. dtf
Carolina Rice,
In tierces—
A few pipes of fourth proof Brandy,
7 by Q and Bby xo ' iddoui Glass y
For Sale by
Gurney iff Smith.
August 3>.
New-England RUM in Hhds.
COUNTRY gVN in barrtls,
JUNIPER BERRIES in Calks,
spermaceti, 7
COM.VTON WHALE, and >• OIL.
TANNERS J * •
SPERMACETI CANDLES,
Tallow Ditto, Mould and Dipt
White SOAP, in Boxes
BeA-Bolton BIEF, in'carrels and half barrelt
CODFISH, in hhds,
Best Boston MACKREL, in barrels, and
A few choice fmoaked SALMON, For ?ale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
Also, a small invoice of wellafibrted
INDIA G O O D S 5
JUST ARRIVED.
Aiig. y; .
Dutch Goods,
i Received by the Pennfyhunia, from Amjlerdam.
■ GIN, in pipes
1 Morlaix
Ticl-.ioiburgs S- In Bales
Ofnaburgs J
German Stripes, in cases .
Hacrlem 3
Hollands 1 DUCK," in ditto
Ravens J .
Bedtiiks, in ditto ,
pi'trf-" } in dino
j For Sa':e"by THOMAS tsf JOHN ZETLAND.
AUg. $
" • FOR SALE,
COFFEE, in hhds. bbls, & bag! }
COTTON", of Demerara, and > entitled to drawback
SOAL-LEATHER )
Also,
BOSTON BEEF, and Mould and Dipt CANDLES.
s ' Apply to ISAAC HARVEY. J,in.
No. j south Watar-ftreet.
Is S mo, in. » - .
" Ju(t Pablifhed,
£ From tlie Trvf-i of MOItEKTTJJ£ ST.'MERY,
)n and to be h d at the principal BookfelUrs in town,
tv (price one quarter of a dollar)
ie A PA MPH LEI ENTITLED
fl * The Blue Shop;
Or Impartial and Humorous Observations
on Life and Adventures of
j!" Peter Porcupine.
1 With the real motives which gave rife to his abuse of
nc our diftinguilhed patriotic fharaflers.
|j_ TOOtTllEr. WITH
id A full and fair Review of his late
S-care-Crozv.
This produ&ion is iaterefticg to all parties.
cf August 30.
Prime St. Croix Sugar & Rum,
Landing at Cliffords Wharf, from on boaid the brig
L~ Pragtrs, Capt. Thomas Watson—
' ABd For Sale by
Pragers & co.
AuSuH 16. d'sot.
e(l Published h T. STEPHENS, No. bo, South Second
° r ftretu
un The Group;
r Or, An ELEGANT REPRESENTATION
on ' ILLUSTRATED.
of Embeiliftied with a beautiful head of
by S. VERGES, C.S.
as- publiihex thinks it a mark of refpefl, due to a.
it's I liberal and enlightened public, tb inform them that
ej. this is the Poem for,th. pablifliing of which he has beea
at- twice dragged from his house, and is now laboring under
ck, a vexatious prosecution He is confcioi'.s that the piece
ta- contains nothing either criminal or offenfive, unlels ori-. -
on g ial wit, decorated in elegant language, be criminal or
ife diffusing -to the prevalent tade ; and, as he trusts that
hia neitof tV- r e is the cafe, he futnhits the work to the
lay* pußic wit'll a full aflarance of its meeting-with a favora- *
rice ble reception. •_ '*■
ree | He would prosecutors to call t-o mind (if thsy
iar " iave ever read it) the following apologue to a wi>lJ known
for -omance "A young painter, indulging a vein of plea
lb. pYintry, fitetched a kind of Ccirvirfiiiin Piece, tefpe&ing a
vay bear, r.n owl, a monkey, and an ass', and to render it
* ■ fjort striking, humourous, and moral, diftingailhed eve
•gwre by some emblem of human life. Bruin was
.bited in the garb and attitude of an old, too; kiefs,
ken soldier; the owl perched npon the handle of a
fee-pot, with fpeilacles on his nose, fl:emed to contem
■ ' ite a newspaper; and the ass ornamented with a huge
Li- s-wig (which, however, could not conceal his iong
rs) fat lor his piilure to the monkey, who appeared
J ' ith the implements of painting. This vibimju-al group
ibrded some mirth, and met with general approbation,
j ntil lome mischievous wag hinted tiie whole was a lam
! II n Upon an old oiheer, a physician, and a member of
Jl I- .iiamentan inGr.umion which was no leoner circulxt
-4; than ihefc people began to be larmtd, and even to
H ancy themselves (ignifitd by the feverai tigures in the
\\ piice. The firitvt gnus fell upon the' air.ter, who do-
U ,-., d that he had no design to give c£fencc, or to cha-
i ] riAerisc par;icular peifons. They affirmed, thr r.f.:.~..'.L-nce
j ims sot ictfa'ik to be .nerlcihei.—and their clamourt 1 ting
si'] overheard by the public, the Captain was a bar, the
t^l " ; L) o £tor an »t'», and "the Senator an owl, to their dying
T ®M: ( j av "__lf-a Cmilar fate lhouid attend the persons wh.o
r S cs - j | wil' insist -upon being the t-.iembers o£. tbit group, the-
j t'ubiic wiil do the pubiifssr the juiiiV tc rwnember that
.w.For fab by the fub.'cribers,
IV PENN-STfIEET,
130 quarter ChelU frefh ttyfon Tea;
ISO ditto do. frefil Souchorjj Tea;
300 Boxes Chins, containing fmail tea Cctts of 42
pieces;
4CO pieces Bindanoes.
Witlings iff Francis.
7'nuary 30 3ta\v.
INFORMATION .
IS given daily of the drawing of tbe WASHINGTON
LOTTERY, at the Office
No. 147 Chefnut-Jlreet,
between Foarfh and Fifth streets. Alio, where TiActs
may yet be had. Sept. t. eo
•J?" The Sixteenth and Seventeenth Days drawing 1*
arrived. j
Tobefold,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Glou&fter, and state of New-Jcrfry, contaiij
-n£ about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
t"h of wh :h is woodland and improved meadow. A
2rreat part of the arable land is in a high state of Cultiva
tion, and very natural to the prodiriSion of Red Clover.
On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
with four rooms oira floor, and a good dry cellar, under
the whole ; together with a barn, carri-cribs and carriage
heufe. The garden is large, and contains eollec
tion of the befl kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees;
the orchard consists of about' three hundred grafted app e- '
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premises, may
be informed of the terrils by applying to
Andrew Hunter.
, J"'r. *9 -. . .. . . a
Letters Patent,
v Granted to the Subscriber, for the Cure of
incurvations and Dijlortions of the Spine,
By an improvement in Stiys and an Apparatus.
EVERY thing has been studied to render this applica- 5
tionfafe, easy, effeiftual, and generally uieful, and
that if neceflary, it may be accompanied with any other
mode.. v
TheYuccefs of the Patentee in the cure of distortions,
from Incurvations of the Spine, the Wry Neck, &c. in
this city and in different parts of the United States, under 1
the infpedlion of eminent phyficiaris, when every other
mode had failed, will, it is hoped, afford the pubjic fuf- „
tho tn.ftlry.Dr this application. c]
N. B. He makes an apparatus for restoring distorted ft
fee; in children— Bandages in general—'Truflis of various w
deimptions, and one in particular on a plan entirely new, hi
which in feme cases is found to answer better th»n any' v
other. 1 >'
Ht returns thanks to thofe'medical gentlemen in differ a
ent parts «f the United States who have honored him with p
-their patronage and confidence.
0- The Ladies are refpeflfuliy informed, that he has
an elegant affortihent of St-ys and Corfetsfor Sale, which
will be altered if necessary, free of extra charge.
LUNDIN M'KECHNIE, S
Afg. 16 iaw 3 w .. n A 17 Dock-flreet
Philip NickJin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE, I
Souchong ~ ,
Hyson Skin /
Young Hyson S- FRESH TEAS in
Hyson and co
Imperial -
Yellow Nanlceens to
Chi#a Ware, aiTorted in Boxes and Chests
Quicksilver ' —'
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality -in
chefls ,
London Market ) MADEIRA WINE y
London particular >'m pipes, hogsheads, & f
New-York Market ) quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine k\ pipe's and hoglheads
Sugar Candy by the Box r '"'
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8 *
Lead in iheets ™
3 Calks of CutteryafTortec on
A fevf chests of Manchester Goods, aflorted thick- of
lets, cortU, flawed Nankeens, &c. anr
3 Small pfckSges of black fewing-iilk* fpr
g Tiel-ces Virginia Snake-root. e«.
aflorted in calks unc
JciyjtS ■ * tnwjcf* of
~ The Impostor Detected. ve "
In Bradford's free and independent Political Press, and vici
, ON MONDAY IVILL BE PUBLISHED, C ou
The Impoftor-Deie&ed, - 1
- Or a REVIEW rf fotve of tbe WRITINGS
" Peter Por-cupine
By TIMOTHY TICKLETOBY,
" He is a monster of such horrid mien,
" As to be hated, rieeds But toije fecn-' 4
_ [Ptfe.]
TO WHtCH IS ANNEXED, J" 1
A Refreshment for the Memory of cent
William Cobbett
By SAMUEL F. BRADFORD. J
x - v d 3 3
Plans of the city of Philadelphia, ,«
Including the Northern LtßsßTrsc and diiiridl ef J}
Soutrwars,
'Publilhed, and fold by
benjamin davies, —
No. 68, High 2;.?5
(Price one dollar.) 4018
THIS plan is 26 inches square, and has been ert-
sraviu■; o'ff.: n f«- • -
-fldacoirart fur-ey.
V w;»{i - -.»•»• iam-i acce^at
rr 'S £:,a |" !Ws> 1 '■
t - *■ r*e\ys 0,. ■»
UE' :'or--; '
BEoS leave
Country, that he has removed from Market-lrSfe ti.
N°- 25j south Third-ftree^,
where he is opening a Large and Elegant AflbrtziA'ni ' ty,
undermentioned articles—viz.
Superfine London Cloths aod Kerfeymereri
Yorkfiiire feeond Do. Jjo,
Mix'd and Blue Coatings
Manchester Printed CalJicoea,
LondohChinri dit:o,
Blue and ditto Furnituies,
» India ditto.
Long Cloths, Coffaes, Biftai, BattillasA Conjevrem °r; '
4-4 9-8 4 6-4 Superfine India Book Miiflinj,
4-4 and 9-8 India Book Handkerchiefs, A
and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 &c 6-4 plain do. Mu&m,
4-4 & 6*4 Brltilh Jaconets, ~' W&y'A '.
6-4 Britiih C'iccks and Stripes,
4-4 India do. do 4 do.
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchief*, ice, !
A aflbitment of figur'd and piam MuCiocii,
Quillings, Dimities, and Sc. iped N'ankeen#,
(ancy \Vaiiicoatio|j!«,
Gingham* of the firtt Quality, fubjeft to Drau Vack,
India Nankeens,
Men's White and ce!»ttredSilMleckiii s s. '
' 9 jiWSiA!
'
Now PvVhfSmg ly the PnWr,
At No. 3, L'setkia Court, delivering to Sul fcrifc-rj,
and to be had at the different Book-Stores in this CityS
Berriman & Go's *
' CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF- -
The HOLY BIBLE.
v Containingihc Old and Now
Trftatnrnts and the Apocrypha, with margmaj notes and're
— -rences. An Index; or an account mod remarkable
paffagesin the old'and new Testament, pointing to the places
whert-inthey happened, and to the placesbf fcr pt uie where -
in they are recorded.—A Table of Time.—Tables of scrip
ture measures, r/eight«and coins : with at) aopendix.contain
ing the method of calculating its meaiuris <of svr
Icets hitherto wanting in Treaties on this fubjctl. A Table ot Officei
o and Conditions of men.
r is CONDITIONS
t. The fizeof this Edition will be a, LARGE FOLIO,
— printed on a beautiful new type, and good made par
ticularly for it, It will be pubiifhed in Numbers, not to ex
ceed'3o, one of whicfc will t>c delivered weekly to fuhferib
-1!n ~ ers, at a quarter of a dollar. Those fubferibers wHq prefer
receiving the work complete, wilibe attended toi>v (ignifying
>or- the lame on any of the fubfeription papers in rne Bookfiores
A in this ctty.
iva- s. There will be an advance in the price, on fubferibing
irer. after the firil of A Mguft next |
use, 3. In the courleof the Work wf!!be given an elegant
der Frontifptece—From an Engraving of the celebrated arlift,
,ge- Gaicwiow.
lec Berriman & Co. the very liberal
:es ; cncoura gcment they havemet with; and havereafonto believe
> e- fxeeution of their edition will answer every expec
aay tat,on - ar, d /peak its own praije.
May 26 . 3 aweoM *
WANTED, ~
A STORE and Cellar or Compting hrufe and Ceilaf.
Xx for tht Wh®lefale and-Dry Good business. Enquire
at No. 129 Arch-street.
For Sale at the obow place-,
50<5feoxes Window Glass, 8 by ro, *j by 9, &c
530 Cream Cheeses in thebeft order, imported from
:a- and entitled to Enquire of
nd Peter Borger,
Aug. 16 , t aawj w
ns, . TO BE SOLD,-
in That Neat and Convenient House, •
TTTHEREIN the fabTcriberiiow lives. Therearefour
r * rooms on a floor : the fcoufe is two stories high
>v,th K arr n above : uuder'the Whol 6h nn excell- *
r j ™' Ce i lar > w " h « dr y well, in which "Is a convenient '
frart.ed chamber sot prefervingmeat, butter, &c. in warm
us weather Attached to the house is a Stable for three
, horses, hay-lof-, granary, and cartiage-haufe, .a wood
y yard paved With ftane, and a with foil of a fine r>
quahty. An mdifputable title Will ie made to the pur
chaser. For farther particftlars aj.ply to the fuhferiber in
Princeton, or. m her ahfence to Thomas D. Johsfon, Ef«.
or Rie rev. Sanmel S. Smith. *
■I s „ ' ANN WITHERSPOON. k "
" Princeton, Aug 24. 2awtQ b X
At a special meeting of the Bvard of Di- S
; report for cJlab\,Jhin S uftful ManufaSurct, holder, r3 ''
8, 1796, 11 ri
K L hU VED f' 1? h o at a rpfcml 'meeting °f the Stoc !c- the
J be " lled on tUe fir(l Monday, con
be.ng the th.rd ay of Odober next, at Paterfon br ten r
into LftfH ° f thc , fame da y: tfle " and there 'to tate,.
- fukntr:on the propriety of diiTolving the said erai
ST !f re^ t0 the cafe made ted Me
Toat J Stockholders e»rneftly requeued ivp
St fa,,i meetln «^
— ' ■ ■ dt3Cth(j J., rt
n k ' F * SA L E '~ -- - ***
A very Valuable OTate,
CALLED TiVITTE NHA M, situate in the ,
townfinp of Upper Derby, andcountyof Delaware, the
'71-4 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the' I
new Wellerfi road; containing acres of excellent land whe
45 of which are good watered meadow, 9 0 t)f prim- wood- wav
land, and the reft arable of the firft quality. There are
,on the premises a gdod two story briclc'houfe,' with 4 rooms pUn
on a floor, artd celhrs under the whole, with a pump-well 01 f
■ ef excellent front; a hrge fratne barn, lfables tcl) t
and other convenient buildings; a smoke-house and stone' the
spring-house ; tw'o good apple orchards, and one of peach- Vli
. Th f, fieids are allin clover, except those immediately '
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the adyamaee
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con-' 1
■ venient for grazing. ' geot
The situation is pleasant and healthy, frtaft thehifh . erco
eult.yation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the tW
**"" ' ui,bl ' : "" ■ciSi
. * j-* s™
Mordecai Lewis,
— 9^-.9- eo.] Surviving Executor. c ' ous
Lottery ~ ~
FOR raifirgfisthoufand file hrndred and Wftvei t-'ve
- dollars .and fifty cents, by a deduflion of fifteen per Tl
cent from the pnzts, and not two blanks to a pnze. viz *
Pnze 0f 5600 dollars is dollars coca th f
I 1000 ioco P° fe
T 5 09 joo bytcr
,1® 100 '*' dCo bra<
99 -co Rooo wash
*5° iK 49J0 tholoi
2000
. 7 Last drawr ; ''cmhers of leoo-dollah each," A
PHzes. 9®*
4018 Blanks. 44,4J0 retirs
| — >■ powei
ets at Seven Dollars each, an opi
rLV h^ D ' re6to L 5 °r the Soc!et y fo>'eftablii- dcmui
anu.aflures, the fupermtendants of the Pat- doubt
-yhsvereqnefted the Manager, to offer th, ""T,
sheme to'the public, and have direded them
those persons who have pr °'*
TL-ottery, or exchange the tickets tor tickets [ Uf > *
r dwili a
r •! at the office of William 3nd Pri2es was "
«re tt , who win"iv lf^l b : Na ' Franc,
' rocured. where t lc k- ,
- ■ '^ d -yofj„ n; , 1796 .
P, GUMMING, S rr\ t.,
ERG >I Man^crs -. govern
r; • - mended fir fk • ° erve: i>he tie fin?
- — ■ iawtf. '"fca
. NirrnfiT ts:
by " dU " d , fr,ends
T liv, J t ." fS ' snd bein g thereVy,
-■ • ■■ 0 all perfbns fT"*, notlce to hi ' W a
• "erai Assembly of Maryland a t T™*' 10 in 8 an <*
5 don the firft Monfev If Sov^
-'f aa of infolvenev. i, ° Vember "«- X .
- ' JoltS £DM °, NDSON A P° lio
' 7?6, -iawtiitAjM cocooifl
V •' " ■ ■ '
-«; •- - tv-'Z»7-fy-, '*"?&?■ -.*&?-&-}, ~ ■- -- - .t". '-Ja
/&' ■ }
. » new country "cartely know thi n?-fl ; ,8- »'
the* names. In the fn<rj, perhaps, of fotre of
t ,tUe most fafhionable charadters a our capitsls, you ■
may recognize, beneath a covci of •duff, an iidif. -J
1, ferent engi aving, a copy of Hogarth. But in ge. ;
neral, such is the vandiiifin of the time, a smirched
daub in the Dutch manner, or the colored prints
of John Overton defcm pur wainscots. Raphael
and Michael Angelo, if they rcfe from the dead,
and work. J at the pallet in Bolton would foen ei. . W
ill— iher die in the ?lms houff, ftarfe to death in ob- . t
• n , fcure ]6<jgmg3,or be rode over b- ahtxkney eeach. ,
man. A witty fynglifliman 'once told me, and I
believed the witty Englifnman, that if the ft itue il
of Venus de Medici* were advertised to be pefiiiw
/yfuld, 'i.blow high, blow low," at the auftiwigr J~-
in State-street, 'some merchant. would ' §$
'd, ' eave not s " ' 3ar ' ron ar, d r °ck sals," to 1.-idid'l
a bid of five dollars for the goddess of beauty. »
From the Farmer's Weekly Museum.
tray'd,
To the right wheel.—-Steuben•
~r. jr. ALTHOUGH I can't, like Sterne, turn Cap")
padocia, Pontirt or Phrygia, into a fernron or ef«
fay, yet, like Smo'let, 1 never travel from Dan
to Beerfheba, and cry " iisail barren."—Thismi.
litary phraf, of the able Baron's, certainly
3, more, than mechanical opeiEtioo upon platoons and
ives? columns.
The'ait of wheeling tfc the right, although so
often taught on mailer days, has'never been rightly
praftifed, although the world has been wheeling
• above four thousand years.
I recoiled an anecdote of a soldier, who, after
climbing a commanding eminence, so fenhbly felt
his dtfvtrion, that he gave words of commard to
kingdoms, and ordeied them to wheel to the right.
H?.d he beefl obeyed 1 verily believe that their ma-
Ijefhes, who a,re no's fighting, would have kept
fi'Ug at home in their own Courts, and made no
flaughtcr,but at feftive boards. Russia wo*)d hare
feme, from the mafracre of Poland and half a
n> frOre of,kingdoms would have kept us ignorant of
their destiny, by not giving Fieachmen aft opp:)rtu
n.ty to give them thace ; and .his Sardinian mt, jelly
M< would never have said to his armies, wheel this
way or that way, or any way, if you can only
JEE. cI y° urfe!vcs - a "<* my kingdom, frdm the graft,
of Bud'napartc,
Religion has been fnt" wheeling—and I unluckt
ezan, ! [ ''"J" a P laie » where ma > be counted more fefts ,
y :hc | tban Hapnall Adams ever dreamt of. In one place
Seine | th . e,r ' ,0 ' infltr * ""der water till they are filled
jlican " lth bcUe f\ {" an °ther, they-find but five in fifty,
»lax- * a * ® re c,e; te<i t0 suture-bliss; and in anothei ther 4
from I Teid iio-icM -°f all Wlors, conduct and perfusion,,
irited thc ab L od * s of hagpinefs.;—a (lirewd genius ob
litter ~l' ? noneof ™«m wheel to the right,
emo- wljole rotundity often renders them
iCr a nn . e uihjedtg for Wheeling, and who have been re
r'ro- ,he orljit fathion, ever since Adam's <
" the- .. "! tcheJ her a P ron o-" Reaves, are fai<!, br
otcd, mcWw ®' not always to move ngir. -The a.
coats m ° r *" S b ° fom •J?''*' 1 »» m °derr, days, has fwollef ;
new> r d - I,e - ''M.. tempt."
! fvfT' " re b>r " 0 means % n s of error
nin f,ci)aftitv ! >aa u.,. E ; '
vhen wh r e^ ln g the kft. ' " p
3me- , . r °! htr as a grfcg.fliop full of topers, fat
I al- :,:< \ CL *P!"jr their foni£s, one thought of Wis-'wire Ml
{[ a and children, *.id nude fy, home; a new roa d e 1
[jno- .°*P" ra | Ua i rt3 r u P, s,, d ordeis him to wheel to the **"*"
nur. THE KE'RiSf'rfl, f
From kvttuu. ' f
'rL " noib "Z> S° as 7 fit ' ,
han mritau > '*< at t/x Ki,g>t Gah.* y
Jre> NOW, had he been fitting in sackcloth and allies.
Hie Wa " his hc " d or, « under ,he ■
ru, = r '"-yof thepolt ;
of TltlnL ' T fUl,er ?!' Weihouid not f"rp,4d
as. r a " 11 " declaration of his uneatinefs.
f , , view, it has a rtry odd afoeil tkat i
>re ' a gate ihould ruffle The temped al \ *
ngs ag.te. Mordecai fat or lolled • vii-ther ; ie ' *
eB - Si' ?ht °/ r p^ ' >l,e, most men wnulfl have by,
tJe ° lbe l fd 2 ar d said " o: a wortfconcern*
Ure lZt a mo<i£ 'Twas an ordinary
l, p- 4rt" p U -H' I:nC<: ; U °" e woui;l %p°fe that li.r
£ ,
thlt P? rafit;cal wWch natnrjlly ll
proudlaT'" B ° f ,h , e KI "S' S o-te, there was one
vc >P M Ui ™° r,al > whoic heart every ran
uom ariow c»uld wound. - i
lUS my ,^ <ib ! e e . 0 »c«pt>on«, and sal/erin- pen,
of HaVration^'l' ' P-Ini ' tal) ' c topicks of fciacntal
er for it Jhall y* * U ®" cr hom m y »nikii£ulnefs ;
in . tor n ihal.ee told from the JJible. '
at det S | °' , t^le / >r .'^ ces of Persia, as partially J
a EOod hur " C / °° ° r Ahai'uerus in a fit of
as Jhra prtiality 1° a ftce." s« z
mend him to n rnil,lon . s c hara«er, that f ould recom
r" Tited. thoupii P J,rona 2 c - A promotion so unme«
' t>om b ; , a
to Mordecai nn' f ? °" e a PP eare ( l more absurd than
j whom the firlr t r° rt l"S ee and unhapuy jews,
j Ooner imnn t !'^'' enl had compelled to be a pen
u S^andHf X> for£i e n di^s - Lynxeyed tc
ereß at 'th r I u? nt ' '" 3 o > ' r ' t » bke his body was
treJ'"lH fi S htof HJn, an . Enragedatihu-envalicr R
7 not lo nrLiT a " d an al!tn ' Ha ' na " 'eek,,
master ftrnt C 3 ate -^ orc ' eca ' alone, but by a 1
afX re«r f reV " lge his natfon. Art- i;
eonof tL & g the- h ' 5 t U '° UJ ™ ,ter ' the difperfi- , ;
A c®ntemntnf>K'n/ /r at,ta ° t t0 thc^r own > 3n(^
date for thf c 1 ' e !s a ' cof-e, he obtained a man-
' dac!e °f ft eX V n<s l ,on - Beho!d Haman on the pin- A
s from India'°o'Ei| rftfllClld of wto reigued 4.
and tweif,, °P' a , aver an hundred, and feveit
pafiion « clfif b>J ev 'ery malevolent ,T
■ invited wirK I • •- horA numerous noble?, and
•' te d princeft t^J 9 M a 'I
upon him "wi C P ir< j " Bearing tbefe banon thick
' vored d"; °;- V °, uld :?*> Hamany on that fa- '• I
Who wo JIH f ■ ■ or! '' <£ Joyful and with a glad heart."
' ex«Be„if oe 1 Iffi, S aiet r cou ' d be instantly j
I pid a ? 1 ' <ofci F be found iofow. . : ,
T'- U t '<
tl »•"' ' 1 •
> >
JSiSt, although the elated !s. f S his lodgings ?o
took Cue h-lefty flips t«rou?hvhe ft eets
of Shufhan, there wai ■• 4 ifone of (tumbling, andfc
rock of offence" in hit- w«y, fsificient to profira'e h :
p-.de. For Mordepni, silxioijs for bis countrymei
andeagM- o learn the fuceefi •f.'llfther'f iatcreellion
in their behalf, had pafttd himftif at the King's gate, a
nation where hifcnutl alcertaiWflte traaf»<2inns of the
palace. Theiiuiep ndjSit JeViji confeioua of the'ma
chinatiins, nnd'Seteiiing the Shaiigoity of hi 3 rival,
" stood not. up tier moved" St his approach.—Artd
. what then, Wamao, could " the tender ftrk of a p»or
, ivorm" touch the giant to tile-quick .' Was it in the
power of a poor, and forlornj n-n, lying fupiriely,
without the palace gate, Jo torrent one. who had such
frec/awefs cyr ft* ? Yes, it wai in the power of* lV\or
decai to mortffy that pri'.V» vhjch was thy ruling pas
Con. Even if it be the miijtiteft.rroleliill, whatever ob
ftnu<S&the coiirfe of inordinate iJfeflions, is a mountain
rnjhe yay. Thaugh" the Hanranheldthe key of
jvidmerai . ftF-r, tJiojjgn hii po(b were flying on "young
Dtomedafies" with that barbarous decree which
would cause Jewifli blood to redden every i'ynagogue ;
and though his powec would so soon be felt, r he was
wretched, unless it were acknowledged. In that tcr
turing hour, all the plumes of his vanity drooped; the
*' ring ' which his king, and the invitation tpthe ban
quet which his Queen had given, were both forgotten.
For "he was full of indignation against Morilecai."
He difTembled his woe abroad, but it was that he
m ght give it full vent at horoe. To his astonished
ft eri * s and wife, after particularizing the circumdan- j
ces of his opulence, his numerous progeny, his eleva
tion. and the partijJ savor-os Either, in aflociating him 1
and her prince, in her parties ; -he adds, yet all thi6 a
v<: lefh me nothing, so long as I fee Mordecaitne Jew,
fitting at the King's gate.
Many eloquent divines, who have Tdetfted Haman't
exclamation for their theme, liSve made the folly el
kis piide their moral. Bur the application, which the
Lay Preacher wi(hes his readers to tnske, istbeab
fur(Jity of being engrofled by any Jingle passion. Whe
ther a philosopher looks at the b ok of EP.iier, or the
throng of men, wherever he discerns a being, intent
alone to gratify the ruling propensity, he differns a
wretch, and a criminal. H over whom warice, am
bition or love tyrannizes, is for the inoft part destitute
of all p-.'ifurrt. JZcr_fomnruiaajid cheajjrines, " which
come to all, come not to him." The aci utelt trior
alifis Tucker and Paley, will convince any man, that
the study of intense delights dsliroys a rtljfh for the
more simple Pride will in.it meet continual homage,
'the exchequer of avarice cannot always be filling, am
bition is forftetimcs denied "thehigheft feat." and love
Will not be eternally mutual. To every purluit i» this
•URjncky world a check is inci lent, and oftentimes, true
to lt-as the (hade to its f rbflance. I would not there
fore advise tottering man to reft his whole weight upon
one (lay, left haply, it might break and pierce him.
If HjTm. n been moderate in his dejires, and taught
himfelf to derive as ttiuch felicity from the prattle of
. his "children," the lmiles of " Zerefli," the "glory
of his riches 1 ' and manifold promotions, as from tht
obeisance of a Jew, lie woirtd not. have fmaited,
though he few an unmannerly Mordecai in every
wicket in Shufhart.
THE LAY PREACHER.
IDR THE GAZETTE Of THE UNITED STATES,
i PUBLIC SCHOOLS,
No. VIII.
In the hft number it w« intimated -tlttt_litscef 6
in tfir phnr-crfrttallifhing public fehools, depends
on finiplii iy in its con(tru£lion. The Original;'ex
-yyr atrth di r g .nso ft i»ft. : tßtion» is generally the
hesvteft. In oxtenfive undertakings tWis particu
ti>e catfV ntft ft-before «*
■" a * co nll efte d wit H an .•
(BWit'dW(PgTcK«ol houfej where ttetef
foi-y,- even of the cheapest kind, will call for a large
sum. TW; railed for the pmpofe of
fttrinlhn a aid to the in ad
difmn tot,he fsU'ies be v.ited by thepeo
pie of the ; where rne schools are ef
tahliftied, and lor other obvious purpose?) will re
qmie a. ft-r)I mere considerable appropriation.
' As public d«figns of whatever defciVplion gehera!-
ly in proportion to the available tnfSysfor
cartyinp them forward, it demonlltably follows,
the ;t"ore comjiffX and expensive they ate, thegreat
rr will be the difficulties to oLilrudt their compie
tion..
JfEAptNG, WktriNG, and Arithmetic fliooW
; '«orrj>vile the whole fvfl-em to be contemplated by
the' QpTetKmept. Tbefe- fmxple branches are in
difpenfahty for every Individual ( —
and t*fet provision for these will j-e f»nud fufiiciejrtly '
to-raifc an avjncious, nntetefttd c!a
itiPtii of eppofition. hiirtift brflm-hes of learn
•. irj; are, in a p'M'it .<f view, biit of ft.
srd tbe-Hdvantaj-es curtailed in proportion ;
for aliei the government- has done all in ifs power
on so cxtei'five a fcsle, the number of youth that
can be benefited by fcientific academies, will be
small. The public money will be appropriated for
the advantage of a few who.will enjoy a moll un
rightSpus end hateful monopoly. The great .tpafs
of'citizeni .will be still left .11 a Aate of ignorance
and deptcflicnj while a fotirce of complaint will be
opened, that will eventually result in a dereliction of
SOiy public . whatever.
The idea of eftatilifhing diftrift academies for the
purpose of giving a partial collegiate education to
the youth of the commonwealth in general, is so
replete with objc&ions avifing from the enormous
expence which ttrall necessarily atten»l them, theii
inadequatenefs tothe great deftgn, the inftru&ion
of all, and the complexity and trouble of their or.
gunization, that it may really be doubted whetUer
. thoft! who discover a great tenacity of,opinion in
their favor, 31 e not at heart opposed to a general 1
*iffufion of knowledge among the jeople. 1
The following may comprize the outlines of a 1
.plan perhaps of easy execution.
Let the Commonwealth be divided into diftrifts
—ctnd wherever fifty families are found,, or can be
included in a diftrift, let a school be provided—apd 1
a master yppointed by,the civil officers orby those of 1
the vicinity. In these schools let the children be <
divided into three classes—plain renders, writers '
and arithmeticians —the fchr»>U to be kept at least
eight months in the year, in country towns, ana . i
through the vear, in.mote populous places. Girls
and boys to have an equal right to admifTton. To
facilitate the object let those settlements that are
conveniently situated make arrangements for theit
own accommodation. As an inducement to the fe
veul diftridU to comply with the law, let each b«
* W . ' ' * ■;
'c entitled to,drsw out of-the public treafui y a fitm of
ts .money (o SifTift is paying the preceptor in ft; '11 tjif
* trift. This sum to be paid on fatisfaflo y proof
) hein* produced that the provisions of the law have
, n been complied with.
a E.
le
a- ' ■
| d ' Philadelphia,
!e Friday, September «, i 7 96.
—
;!l Married, On Monday lafl, by the Rev. Dr. Magaw,
T 2 M - jAr,<Es Culhertson to Mrs. Maria Flinn, both of
' this city.
3 " , On Tliurfday .evening iaft, by the Right
n Rev. Biihop White, Mr. Uriah Smith to Miss Marga-.
>f Rft Staukf, both of this city. -
Dif.b, en hoard the brig Charlotte, on her voyage to j
this port,' Mr. Joseth Rooertj.
is
■- Tranjlated for the Gazette of the United States.
e
From Hamburgh Papers, received by the (hip
i>" Voltaire. •
e PARIS, May 30. .
Yellerday the fete of vidfories was celebrated. I[|
was'ddightful. At rioon the Diieaory dreffid 1J i
n j grand collume folemnljr proceeded from the Oii!ita\|
_ i ry school 10 the Champ de Mars before the altar of\
the. country. iThe canftituled authorities, the mi-1
' nifters and the diplomatic body opened the prooef.
» fion. Carnot delivered, a speech, which, however
could not be heard-on account of the diftatice.
e Then the mufieal infti'uti" i performed a concert
which was interrupted by putrio ic songs. The
e troops execo'eamiliUry evolutions and afterwards ,
t ttie people were permitted to dance on the Cl)3mp j
a de Mars till evening. At the avenues of the champ I
de mars, or of the field of reunion, as it is now f
j- termed, rhere wire couched two lions, the fym'.l
hols of llreiiffth. Ihe altar of the country waJ.
t surrounded 'with cannons arid decorattfd with fbtiiV"
e teen trees, to which tVere affixed numbers of tto»
, phies of .the fourteen armies. On a hill stood th*
- Ilatue of L:betty, leaning with one hand on i]m
Constitution and holding with the other a ftafF, til
s end of which was covered with William Telll
1 bonnet. The colours taken from the enemies we«
1 also arranged to a tree like trophies and ftatucs ;lf
goddefTetof fame, jxt one hand held a palm brand!
t in the other the clarion of war. The feaft was al
f nou"ced by a salute o'f the artillery. The national!
guards, divided in 14 camp?, represented the 141
armies. No bo.iy!w.as allowed to advance- to tbel
' p';lce, where the public men *nd others were I
placed.
Merlin de Thionville has purchased the Chateau/
of the ci-devant Duke of Orleans at Reincy. 11
General Buonapai te has requested a reinforcAi
ment of 40,000 men. "^j
Ihe Duke of Parma, not being able to the 1
two millions to the French, rcfolved to fell hiel
plate and diamonds. The inhabitants of PartnaJ
6 iimmediately advanced that sum. At Modena
9 contribution of 20c,®00 fcquines is laid on the
e the Popi/h territory are fsid to be
mo#, ripe for a revolution. Ttr: Cohnccl of En- •
* r ; n;crs Lajni* <-«wfflai»'df in the Citadel of Milan ;|
ihe garrison coniifting mostly of Croats. jjn
-- A fchcdule was sfßx:d to the palace of fhe\
e Atch-Dnke at Milan with the infeription "A
t house to be rent; for the keys enquire of the cam
- toifTary Many of the nobility at MiUn
had tjieir coat of arms taken off their carriages.
- The nobles serve among the national guards.
At the featt o f Victories, the wi f e of General
Buor,aj)ar;e appeared particularly conspicuous, who
- is now (tiled Notre Dame des Victoires. Madame,
I'allien now is called Notie Dame de Scptepbr^
1 J> lr, e 5.
As the afiignat draws nearer the end of its dura
tion, it depreciates. At this moment the Louis
D'or is 18,000 livrcs in affignats
j In the lame proportion the price of commodities
riles, which ts almolt generally rated after the course
- of fpecit , though the renters and public funftiona
ties receive only affignats and' mandats. A bottle.,
i wu,c co^B 2ao ltvres, a pair of (hoes a '
- load of wood 12,000, a pack of ccals 3000, a
pound of cotton 500, one egg 20, one pound of'
V powder 250, the vilii of a pKuciap 60 , a.^unch
- at i'so, 3 -poWd «rftigar fn ck'^4o
- one of co{>.: 1400 li'vres, a trip in a hackney coach
; 500 livres.
t ' PRANCFO£T, June t. I
: A good underllanding between the Swiss Can
r tons and France is re-ellablifhed, of confequence'the
erecting of a camp near Bade will be omitted. In
g the Cantons Ftcyburg and , Soleure even the re
: lideneeof the Emigrants will be prohibited. But
; the report, that Bafts has made amends by money,
f is not confirmed. In the A(Tembly of the Swi!|J|
Cantons the Debates 011 the acknowledgment cM
■ the Ambajfador Barthelemy were remarkably
> bwifterous. The people murmdring, declared their
* diflatjsfadion, and the whole of th-e Council ex- !
1 pressed"their intention to lefign, in cafe the people i
perlilted. The officers returned from Holland as j
well as those driven from France are promoted to
■ appointments.
The Hanoveiians continue returning from
France. They mention having met almost in all
cities with the exchange of ia
refufed and wh6 .xperience hard treatment, many
of ih?m being totally deftilute of cloathing.
' COPENHAGEN, June 3.
Lad year there were exported from Denmark
6coo horses, 22,000 oxen, and 9000.tons of failed
meat. the common estimate for each horse I
at 80, for each ox at 40, and for each ton of meat 1
at 16 rix dollars, those three atticles alone produced
15 totis of gold to the country, without reckon
ing what was exported clandestinely.
Yellerday's mail -brought to opr Chajnber of
Commerce the agreeable news, that our envoy at
Naples, Chamberlain Burke, has at last lucceded to
liberate the Turks detained" prifonersat Naples;
fothat the grounds of diffeience between the Al
geiines and this cotm'.ry is entirely removed.
.
' ' • ■ ** —.
g BY THIS -DAY's MAIL.
Auaufti 9. I
Wednesday morning a negro
was-drowncd in a Wfll in tLj^jrjr.—r
I From iillppears thai who
ra wjs children, was c of
j thi< horrid deetHlWiltoft in the
| well and then T'hey were
j early discovered and taken dical afliltanee
• Was given, but to no p.tfofc. in
! duce her to commit on
nr, then, is not known. / >
of Died ycfierday morning, Mr. William Attend
jj t muc '' celebrated Race Rider ; lie came pafTen
£cr ' n 'he Sloop Dove, Captain Brown, from
"l Charieflon. , '
j beaih chal'eng'd him in his lafl if ih,
And ran himdown and won xkejlvtur-*
Chlfrriij'd by Il.r.th, on 'hit vain turfy
He'li never start to win another^w/yf.
PROVIDENCE, August 27.
p By"3 «en tie man. of undoubted veracity from Cape
Nichols Mole, we,are informed, that 117 Bti'ifli ]
uiiieers died- there from the 2d tcthe 17th uk. and
.4 that the mortality among the troops has beeiypro-
IJ pmtionably great.
"ll A letter from a British officer of dna<*Oons at the
\ M'jleme itfons, that of the regiment to which he
■ Vbeiongs, only'thix# officers beside himfelf fuivive^
f " 1 CHARLESTON, Anguft lb. /
r 1 Ditd on the ifih of July, and in the 53d yikr
_ |' sa g l ' ,e Thomas leefe, D. D. of PentfttonV
t , |' "inty. He had diftingu'fhed hirr.fclf as an
g writer on several occasions, and was highly efteenlNk _
s my all who knew him, lor sincere and unexampled
Jpiety. His superior knowledge and truly ornamental
' and conve lation, entitled him to rank among the
V I wifeit and h|ft men of our c.ouatry, and render his'
v ideath a lerions and general loss to the community.
I i NEW-YORK, .August 31.
T> The ExeeutiveTjirtCiory bsvc announced effici
■- ally that the retreat et *Gen. Jourdan was only a .
K feint to facilitate the pafiage of Moreau at Kehl.
F This may be so, and if true was good gsnerallllip j
I but the feint was very hard fought.
I The Aurora fays, "Providence Teems to guide
I, the republicans to spots where the most splendid
successes can be gained." This may be so ; the c?u-
I fades in the 12th century had God for a guide
!% a S a ' n ® infidels ; as he is now the leader of the
'l French againit despots and slaves This is the old
41 and never failing excuse for ambition and dominati-
C l/ 1 ' Doubtlfffs God Aln'ighty diredts Buonaparte
e lit ftiont whole corporations, without ceretaiony,
I {ad burn whole towns, for refi.iiitg his force. Tht
"/ J cvvs were ordered by their God to burn and def
/I iroyal! the heathen nations around them, because
Su they wanted their "goodly inheritance." 6ut
had God for their guide when they came
e Jlere to kill lrtdians and di ive them out of the land.
18 JrG >d bas doub.bka great regard for the French,
sJJi.i dirt&ing them to 10b the Italians of all theic
Jfloney, plate, pictures, &c. All this is well enough ;
£ _J»r the combined powers were headed by their God
"■d Hoiy religion, when they took up arms agaii(|t
IC Banvt. Monorchia! tyrants and republican ty
ail S.a«t A God at hand to jutlify i(uir robbe
jffy, p'uifder and mutdef. Monltrous abfurditics 1
JL Bdt of all sbfurdities the moll ridiculous is, that
' ViVen who are pufhuig thefale as deiltical and athe-
boosts, with the expfefs view ot exterminating
I * rC ' l ' ilon l ' le countr y» Should ascribe the
n j lVench fuccefles to God and Providence. Besides
5 - ipus is taking from the repalflicanj half their merit,
kT" afcribc their vidtories to divine agency. Men
"•'1 ought to be more confident.
0 I Uis said that stocks/ell in England on hearing
L 'l hat the French had retreated over the Rhine, as
jr peacc was supposed to be rendered less probable.
But as that retreat was only a feint to aid Moreau's
!" defigh, it is a proof of French policy and iucccfs
16 So that stocks may rife again.
September t.
■ s Extract from the New-York French Gazette, hf
e I the 29th August, 1796. ; \
' SuppreJJion of Relief to the French Refugees. \
Ttie French republic had granted fubfiltence to
3 a small number of cploniils, who had been forced \
3 by dangers of every kind which futrounded '
them in St. Doning*, to take refuge on the Con 1
;the p-w CoJliraiiTaries hare hastened to re- 1
'' cal into the Colony, not those -.trho could be ufeful,
btit the women, children and old men. In confe
qtience of which, they have been invited to enroll .
J themfslves for the two. flags of truce, which have
j been sent out ; declaring, that from that momeor,
every kind of ..ffiltance would be withheld : Very
e few have emfcraccd the opporttanity, because they
" had no asylum or resource, particularly in the nor
thern part of St. Domingo ; because women and
E | children could not be prevailed on to abandon their
their h'iffiands, their brethren, who thiglit
and proteded them in a country
waiie, and expofedon all fides to the ferocity of'
Y lawlejs plunder. Thus, these unfortunate people, .
1 so worthy of protection, e*peli'd from the bosom
of tlieir country, of whose favours they have not
e been undeserving ; banifh'd from their habitations '
s by or anarchy, fee themselves doomc to
i figli am id it 'the horrors of ipdigeoce in a foreign '
landS Happy could the philanthopfc nation which
' has afforded thein an asylum, join to this benevo- I
lent a£t:on, that of enabling thVm to exert their in- 1
3 duftry, and to procure those comfort# denied them r
" by the country to which they owe their mifciablc f
extftence. J
GAZETTE OK THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST.
* , .
■ PHILADELPHIA, September 4. I
ARRIVED. days.
- Brig Grncey, Hetker, Kin»flon 24
Susannah, Pat rock, New-York 2
f Schooner Jupiter, Burbatlk, New-York 3
t Venture, Warrington, Virginia 5 '
3 ( Hannah & Nancy, Fitzhughj do, . 5
> Polly, Eldridge, Boston 1 1
- Sloop Jane, Jackson, New York 2
Lyfi4«jT"giaham, Seagrove (Cop.) 0
- fj i
PiiovmiNCS, Auj;uft 27.
OnTuef.'ayirrriveckhe floopS.illy, ccpt. Tongue,
I : n 18 d 79 frbm Hifpartioh. In Atwood. 's
[M Key, a boat came on board him, belor;°ing to the
Lucy of Balticnprv, which war wrecked the
°f/»!>'■ T»e fchuoner Peg;>y of Baltimore,
3 f wrekedthe 16th of July. Both yciTlls
, e Jciontcd to the lamegownrrs, Mefirj. Samuel and ,
re lohn Smith. t
e J On the I ttii inft. in Ist. 29, 45, long. 73, 22.
p. spoke thje floup Aportun; k, capt. t'ucfcci, frotn
Thomas's bound fo'.'Njrth C lolina. Stn had
/ been intentionally rundown by tie B i:ifc frigate
Anjiablt:, and received very conliderahle damage.
Arrived at Ate<m York—September t.
n Ship Mmy, Gillary, Pctei fbu-gh, Rufiia
The fliip Eliza, men ioned in 'i'uef*
day]s paper have arrived at;he Hook, is fnid to
be a priEe to tV ; : Thelis British. frigate, and was
taken on her pa(l'a«.e from the Isle of May.
Capt. Jeffrey, of the br Pwp Siller's, from
*.»ape Francois, fays, news was received shortly be
e foie he left t lerc, that i dx.tula had.surrendered to.
two French tiigatcs, one of which was the Infur
d £ en te-$ ant l thinks the intelligence shay be oepend
. Ed on.
Bitg I Wo Sifteri, Jeffrey, Cape Francois, spoke
p bri£ Maria, H >Ideo:, of Mtsv-YSrk, 18 days
e out, all well,' Aif.> a Ichooiier trcm 1 Vi i n ia,
bound to Port-au Prince, lat. 21, 23.
gugult 27, spoke the (hip Fains, of Nevv»York,
n, 4 days out, bound to Cape-Nichoh-M-le,
PORT OF BOSTON, Attgufl 26.
'rrived brig Riling Sun, Cap'. Nubie, 56
Dertiaraui, via St Croix, 24 (lays.
| Lift of American vcjfcli L'ft at peniararaju'y 18.
Brig Molly, J. Dryburgti, Charlelton, S. C.
s thip Two Brothers, Henderfon, of Philadelphia,
from Amflerdam ; hts cargo condemned and chttfiy
landed ; ship clcared and expected to fail Un for
the Continent jn buflalt, cargo condemned as JDiucii
property. Brig —, 'ttrrhdefpi,,.,
1 Ichooiier ClanlTa, S. Moulton, Old York ; brigs,
• Polly, E. Watis, Portsmouth, N. H. Revolution,
' S. Mot*e, do. f, hookers, Hiram, J. Tihon, clo.
Mary, Lincoln, Boilbn ; , Freeman., do. (hip
J — > Glover, from Amftcrdam 5 brig Betio ,
' Grey, arrived atom the 4 h July, not 'finding a
' market, failed about 6th fur EffcquibS.
Augult 27.
; Arrived ff,ip Cumberland, Capt. ScoM, 66dav»
from Copenhagen. Left theie ftiip ; ' u s
" New York; an.) (hip l { of Provide/re,
= July 1, lat. 58, N. long, o, 20m. W. spoke the
1 (hip Charlotte, Duucanloii, from Amilerdani, to
* New-York, all well. .
I 2 °> ,on 8- 4Sf parted the bri s r
Good-Hope, i hor.idtck-, from peter lburgh ti Sa
-1 lem, havipg been in company fevew days. , \
A fegdfts.before'Scott left C^penhap-n, the
Damlli and Swediih fket« had formed a'lardion
■ to cruize in the north fcas for the IWpport 6t tti-ir
neutrality.—Ail kinds of provifjous were plenty
i and cheap. ' t ■}
Same day. Arrived l.ri,/ i, Port
PoillaHd. Lc". at * uri J* Pa.x Capt.
ot-tms port.
Anguft 28. *
J Arrived brig Katy, Op#. Carter, 46 davs from
Gibraltar. Deit the.e the barque Columbia of
his port. SpoKc not^io^.
S Same <!>y, schooner Jane, Capt. Snow, 42 days
'{t u"' L ' ft ffi'o»ner -/Capt.
Merchant, of Bolton. Sp.ke a fchoor.er from St,
' Lucte, bound >° Portland. Capt. S. lef, at the
last > hurfday, Capt. Somes, from Pert
au-rnnce, in g sloop.
[ Juic 30, was spoke the 1 riV- fiier.dfhip, of and
frwn J0.1U,,, p day* put, j\.hn Goodrich, matter,
4 bund to Bourdeaux.
s
\
STOCKS.
Six per Cent. - - .... „ j./•_
f Three per Cent. -- - - - A lo^
\ 4 i p?r Cent. - - jibne far iale. - - 14/ laflprice
\J| percent. - - ,1,6
Deferred Six per Cent. - - w . tifh'.ot
» . BANK United States, - . - . 20p r. cent.
1 Y P .nnfylviriia, ... . a ,
i V Niith America, -- - .46
Aifurance Cemp. North-Americ*, 40 per cent, adr,
. -f- —Ftilu/ylvania, . s pcr ceot>
' r COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On Lcndon, at 30 day#-, fieri, par.
—~ ' at d a y s > par to 1611-»
: ~ ~—~—" a ' 90 d ! 61 i i 6» /. 2
, /.mlterdam, 60 days, per guilder, 41
' ' 9° da ys, j 40
r } ■ r - 1 ■ 11 * ~
[ just Publiihcd,
- j'nd to be Sold ni IVILIJAM COBBETT's
t aud the principal BookjelUn^
I A Letter,
ddrejfed to the Author of the Group •
ln which is contained, % '
The fuljtanc* rf thirds uncxpedcd, and the 4vi
we oj things not fetn. .
BJEINO A MIRROR,
which th« Pa,nt :r win peradventure difcera appro- "
priattd light and Jkrie.
Word in season to Mr. Stephens,
&c. &c.
Tny, very name sets ramilies at Varlince"
j •' ' I-wixt ha and father, burlh the bond of nature,
/ And tears endearment from the'muptial pillow'"
s»ptember z. » (
Porcupine, a print,
T. be had at MOREAU-DE ST. MißY'i, Book-Store,
No j4 Corner of Froi-t and Walout-ftreets; and
at the principal,Jßbokieller« oi this citv
* , '
L A N D i KG,
! From on board the Jhip STAR,. Capt. Vannman.
About 150,000 rot ties
From Biiitol——for Sale by
F. Coppino-er.
' Augufl. 3t« 0 , , t c
' 11 - - >
' (*'■ £, ...dry cf I; 1 ,;;,
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No.II, 4 v
FOR THE IMPROsEMSNT OF THE J#"' 1 1
v . FEDERAL CITY. tfj]
A rasgnificent >10,000 dollars, & 7 oqo ' any
dwelling-house, ) cash 30.0C0, ar.e ) lurch
1 ditto 15,000 & cacti 15,000 40,00® firft n
l ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & calh' 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,00® f ttedu
x ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 io,uacr v *
1 cafll prize of 10, obp y
1 do. 5,000 each, are, • 10,000 /
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000 V (
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - * - 10,00? aehet
io<j do. 50 - - oj
400 do. %5 " ]r OOO °J
r,ooo do. '20 jj - 20,000 if,
15,000 do. 10 - 750,000
' ' " ~~ /
rt,739 Prizes.
Blanksi
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favollr those who may take a quantity of
Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten Jays alter drawing, will be received so
any number not less than 30 tickets. . <
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri- 3
vate buildings to be eretfted in the City of
Two beautiful defigps are already fele&ed for the ent jr-'
fronts on two of the public ftjuares; from these prawiiws,
it is proposed to erect two fcentre and four corner building^,®
soon as possible after this lbttery is fold, and to convegM[
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in .
the manner described in. the scheme for the Hotel Lottery'. • "1
A nett dedu&ion of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended f»r the National
University, to be erected within the city of Washington. 3
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold ofit—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finifhad ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is dosed, arc to be considered as given towards
the funS for the University ; it being determined to fettle
' the whole business in a year from the ending of thtdraw-
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security. *
The real seCurities given for the payment of thefcizes,
are held by the President and two Dii;e<Jtors of thTOank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the.late Commiflioners assisted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National Übiverfity and the other federal ob.-
jed£3 may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from. Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public ase assured that the
drawing will fpsedily commenae, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has rendered the lhor fufpenfiop ihdifpenfable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
,§„ Tickets may be hid at the Bank of Columbia ; o
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boftori
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. eo
PRINTING PRESSES, &c.
The fubferibers bave for sale two complete New Mahogany
Print ing-Presses,. one of which will take in a (heet.ef
super-royal. They have I'tkewifc on handy
Cafe?,' brass rules, and all kinds of Primer's furniture, &c.
Also, Smith's Work of all kinds, done 'it the fhortefl
notice, by
John Innes Sjf Co.
Back of No. 77, Dock-flreet, corner of Carter 's Alley
To bs fold by public sale,
ON Wednesday, the 7th day of September next, on
the premises in Mount-Holly, Burlington county, by
the Subletiber,
The Dwelling-House and Lot
Whereon itftands, having been in part occupied as a store
for fevera! years past, and in a good (land for bufinefe, to
gether with,the store-house, ftablc and buildings thereon
treated, having two large cellars under them. Alfc, the
shop goods and household furniture. A clear title will be
given to the purcKafer on payment of the money or fuf
ficierit bond therefor, and pofTeffion of the premises Will 1
be given in the said month of September,
The sale is to continue 'till the whttle is disposed bf.
Mount Holly having become rhe County Town, makes
this property more valuable than heretofore. The condi
tions will be made known at the tnhe and place of fale,by
PETER SHIRAS. .
N. B< All perfonsindebted to thefubfciiber,are request
ed to discharge the fame immediately, as he intends soon
to remove out of this state. ASy person having a just de
mand against the fubfdriber, is requested to_produce. the
fame for settlement. ' *§ 2w
Mount Holly, Auggft 16, 1796.
• v " Lands of the Ukited States
Treasury Department, Jlugufl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN pursuance of ail of Congress, passed on the iSth
day of May, 1796, entitled " A* afi providing" for'
the faie of the lands of the United States, in the Territo-"
fiorth'wetl of the river Ohio, and moutl) of
entucky river," that the feftion3 or lots of land defcri*
bed ifi the annexed schedule, tying in the seven ranges of
townships, which were surveyed m pursuance of an ordi
nance of Congrefs,pafifcd on the twentieth day of May,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five J
will be expol'ed for sale at Public vendue, in the town of
Pittiburghitt Pennsylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of *
October next, and thenccfcrwardj from day to day until I
the firft day ofDecember ciiiaiug,unlefsthe said lots (ball 1
be fboner fold, in the manner, and on the terms and con. 1
ditions herein-after mentioned, to wit:
ift. The said fedlions or lots shall be fold under the di-J
reiS ion ef the Governor or Secretary oT'the Ter-■
ritary, andfneh person as the President of the United!
States mayfpeciifif appoint for that purpose.
< id. The said fedlions or lots lhall be f»ld to the highest I
b'dder.but no Tale can be made for left than two dollars 1
yer acre of the quantity of land contained in such lot or •
fedlibn. '
3. The highest bidder as before mentioned', must depo
sit at the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur chafe
money, ill the hands of such person as the President of the
United States fha'.l appoint to attend rhe (ales for that pur
pose, which will be forfeited, i£ a moiety of thefnmbid,
including the said twentieth part, shall not be paid witnin
thirtydays from the time of sale.
4th. Upon payment of a mo!ety of the pnrcjiafe money
in the manner before mentioned, the purchaser wi l be
entitled to one year s credit for the remaining moiety ;
ani shall receive from the Governor »r Secretary of'the
Wtftern Territory, and the person who shall 6e appointed ,
the President of the United States, to direfl the sales.a
certificate describing the lot or fjfiicn purctafcd, and de
claringthefum paidonacccurt.the btlaace remainuigdtu:,
tW time when such talar.ee ■. llot.cs payable, ar.dT chat
the whsle land therein m?v xr el ,will be forfeited, if tie
f ila balance is not 'hen pa,d ; but if the said fiance fh L
be duly discharged.by paying the fame tothe Treaf«erof
tA United States,-the purchaser or his a.ngnce or o
M r«refentative, 9iall be entitled to a patent for tb.
;fid larislLinhis producing to the Secretary o tateaj(|
Adpt for endorsed upon the cernficat**. u i
"any purch Jfcall make payment of of he •
purchase time when day
firft moiety is a be mauejp#** *1 be entity w fal<
deduction of ten fpr wh.ch a ere- •
•lit is author!?, .-d to bejSjlpna his patent shall be im- R
mediately ifTued. , ■ delcril
, the day an .
mentiuned. ** • rr ,;; nf
\ oITVER WOLCOTT, °" in '
Secretary of the Treasury
. he M
Schedule of feElions ef townships, or fraStinal parts day 0
of iownjhtps, to be fiti at Pittsburgh, in pursuance tmtll
of the 6th fed\on of an at 7of Congress, pajftd on quart
the 18th day of May, 179^-.
f . .| I • » S£' » dolla
ll\ °- < 1 °< 1 f
o ° ,1 ° ! 3 posit
Z _J "J 1 J 2 chafe
, Ift Range. 6th Township. ' 6th Range. . State
ift Townfliip. f!ai2 640 each ift Township. i^' u
I 5j 6j 14 640' 17 3 w "r 1
29 ;,'.56; 95 17320640 each iS 270 1' .
30 2501 75 2,53361640 each 21 8 50 [7* 1
34 |;40|90 BthTownfhip. 22 166 40 f c J"'
' 35a36iu40|each 3814 j 23 427
r 2d.Townfhip 17320 64'oeach .24 640 pjj ve ]
19 140 23 640 !27 151 80 | te CO
s 20J 170 70 25330 64oeach 3 8ajoj640 each I tion(
.1f iV 185 33 a 36 64peach I |58 j paid
i3O iothTd\fnfhip. 343361640 each I payi
488 80 la 2 1640 each 2d Township. f'th*)
• " 2632764 c each 5314:640 each 1 126 rfhall
f »8 5'50 17320 640 each 2 440 Sduci
29 55-1 60 23a36|6401each 3 448 Indc
' 564 !2thTownfiiip. 4 , e -6 fiak
3t<i36 640 each ial4 64oeach 5 4*64 l me
4thTownfhip. 17320 640 each A 471 v e 11
19 64 233361640 leach 7 340 Sf"
i % 6 t° n n, 4th S"4 6.,oeach
26 38760 lftT .17320640 each i
e 36 ,o 23336 64pe3ch
- 3H32 640 each * 6 3 6 j 3 d Townfoip. 1
33 616 ■ 30 640 5 1 470 1
34 44520 34 615 2 *1*
35336 64c each
s 4io»„i»V 5
•' ' ;»» « ■■ , S?
Ie 12 479 3° t 7 1Q 7ai4 640 each trie
k 17 304 15 ' - 17a20 640tach f—
1 18 63*850 . • 23336 640.each
43 450 75 t, t°i 5th Township- .
>- .24 640 ' J , 3 ' x t jß f"
,s, 14 640 fan
ie ',n I7a2os4oeach 1 |»
ts ° > 23336 »4o each 3 '34
3 J 111 laTownfhip. 4 540 L
; d 36 lii 4 640 eich 5 548 J
as. 2d Range. I7a2o64oeach ° IS 0 ,
e. iftTownfilip. 23336 640 each 7314 640 eac , jw
28 171 20 sthTownfhip. »7Wo64«sach W
o 34 I6| 5© iai4|64o each 23236 64c ea< ■
ri 3d Township. 17323,640 each ' th Townfhip ?
Is 24aj6 l 64o|each 23336:640 each, 1 ' 1
28 499 16 ; 7thTownfhip. 2 57 >4° • .
29 640 ia2 64oJe3cli * S l , w
3x333 fiiojeach ja? $40 each 4 - s ' M
iy 4thTown(liip. 12313640 each 5
® f n 26 40 ißai9 64©each 601 , V 3
12 397 50 25 640 7314 640 each
ift *3 5 1 50 30136 640 each '^? a2 ° 6 40 each h
15 27 50 9thTownfhip. | j,
16 259 20 iai4|64oleach ! $ lownfhip. |
17 524 i7a2o]64oeach f"4.<4oieaci Lf
ij 18 640 23336 64deach J 7 al ° 64-;jeach 1
19 63c nth Township. 23336 640 each 1
20 584 80 1 ai 4 (6 4 o[each l«hTownfh(p. |
h aj 636 41 i7a26|64o!e3ch 1314640 each ■
22336640 eaah 23a36!640each ! 7 aj ® 640 each
sthTownfhip. i3thTownfhip. 2 3 each /
5 636 1314640 each J 3 f "™°wnfhip. j
6 a7 64c each 17320640 each 1214 ')4cjeach I
°" 13325 64c each 23336 64a e3ch T 7 aIC 640.each |
° n t»7atß 64c each ,„ — 64oeach
,e 323,6 640 each. 5^„ Ran ® e - ijthTownlhip.
b , e 7 thTownfhip. ta 141640 each
7 164G1 40 i7a2o|64o ( each
' i!i BihTownfhip. 22 5 ® a 3 66 4oeach
6f, "5 640 esch 23 50 ■ 7 th rXkge.
tes ; 6 440 a 6 ift Township.
di- ff al4 640 Cach 39420 3P 1 4|40
by .i 7 % J l3a | ;0 4
• 2-36 6 4 oearh e^^eich 2dTow»fhip.
ft. ; #TownOup. >J 4 g 3 35
E »
is. 1, Township. 9 296
13314 640 e3cb o ioai2 340 each
_ 1,a20 640 each 2 20 14 } 0
640 e3ch 3 43 g i 7ai ß 640 each
3d Range. 5 456 J 9
2d Township. 6 464 80 20 *9"
15 ■ 640 I 7 '1 5® 23324640 esch
Sth, 16 600 8 618 i c
for. 40 557 50 j 9314 640 each 26137J640 eich
' to ~ 21&2t 640 each 17 aao 64c eaclt 4t '' lownihip.
1 23 609 23 a36l64oleach iar 4 640 taut
cr, 'l *25336 640 each 4th'l'ownfl)ip. i7 a^^4oeach'
3d Township. j iai4 640 each a 3^ 6 4C each
; dl - 9 ISB 60 | 17320 6 4 oeacfc 6tkTovvn(hip. .
' ay * 10 344 I 23336 640, each iai4|64oeach 1
j il 267 ! 6thfownfhip. I7a2oj6 4 oeach nW
ofl 11 1 ai 4 6 4 o|each 23a , 3 i 64 ° ". ch
ntlll 14 202 5° 17820640 each Bth Township.
hall! l S 630 23336 64c|each 1214 640 each
on I i6aiß 640 each BthTo\vn(hip. I 7 a2c 640 each
19 217 50 1314 6401e3ch I 3 a
di-1 10 616 75 1732064 c each lothTownfhip.
fer-l 21336 64o|e3ch 13336 64.0 esch 1314 64c tadl
itedm 4thTownfhip. lothTownfhip. I 7 aio eaci»
1 170 I'ai4 640 each a each
heft fc a 544 17320 640 e3ch r ithT owi^fhip.
liars . 3 3xo 23 336 oAoleachi iai4 64o,each
it or » 4 45° i2thTownfhip. I 7 aac? 64cieach
V 5 I2e ! 1314 6 4 cile3ch »3 a 3«. 6 4
=P°" 6 640 1732 c 64c each i4thTownihio.
■base 7 563 640 each i a Mi6 4 opch
fthe Ba9 540 each 'i4thTownfliip. 'i7a2o;6 4 oeach
P"- 10 54c 80 1 ai 4 640 each 2 3 a ? 6 64c!each
, b .' II 529 70 1732064 c each lothTownfhip.
ltmn I2ai4 64c each 23336)640 each 1314 64c1e3ch
I7a2c 6401e3ch - 17 320640 each
° n^ c 23336 64o|each 23336 640 each
etv; NOTE.
ioted TlffiquAatitiej of Lands in the f cvera l townships
, fore mentioaed, are exclusive of thr I nr. X
VM United States and also of those siS? g!
dt, fSrwum"'V" 6 or fractional
that l* .!v nQ,ipS ' bave been by aflual sur
vey; the particular lots or fedions W
- bees n« .therwtfeafcertained than by calculation.
Lands of trUnited -fes. ,
Treasury Department,
Aujufi 3, 179 6 -
Public Notice is hereby given,
TN pursuance of an aft of Congrcfs P assed er t. the lßth
1 davos May. 1796, entitled «an a St. providing foi
tbe<al-of theT ands of the United States, m theterritory
S-wlft of the river Ohio and above « the —h «
Kentuchv river," that the garter TWlhips of land
, delcribed in the annexed fchedulc, lym| m the seven rang
ordinance the twentieth dayof
e the tenth day of Fjbruary enfiung, unlef, t.K said
, quarter townflups (hall he feon.r fold, w the manner and
on the terras and condition, heremrfwr mrauottd: v£
ift. The said ttaarter townflups shall Re fold to
- : highe'ft bidder, but nofale can be made for lifs than two
dollars per acre of the quantity of land contained in such
quarter l)idderas before mentioned, must de
pbfit a* the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur
- chafe money, in the hands of the Treafurcr of the United
" States, flfci'ch will be forfeited if a moiety of the fate bid,
inclUdfJt'He said twentieth part, Ihall not bii paid within.
tHrty d;.V" from the time of sale,
i id. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchafe-iho
iJy in »he* manner beforcmeutioned, the purchJier will
1z entitled to one year's credit foi the remaking mo:ety ;
Ind (hall receive a certificate dcfcribing the quarter town-
Hiip purchased, and declaring the sum paid on account,
f the balance rtmaiding due, the time When such balaflce
I becomes payable, and that the whole Land therein men
-1 tioned will be forfeited, if the fcid balance is not then
I pai i • but if the said balance shall be duly discharged, by
I payin'e the fame to the Treafurcr of the United States,
I thiptir chafer or his aflignee or other legal reprefentat.ve,
I shall be entitled to a patent for the said landon.his pro-
Kucine to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance
•idorfedupon the certificate. But if any purchafcr shall
Hake payment of the v/hole.of the p-jrehafe-money at the
lime when the payment of the ftrfl mowty is to
fe made, he will be entitled to a de4uAion of ten per
ciptuxn on the part for which a credit is authorized to. be
d&en ; and his patent shall be immediately issued.
GIVEN under my hand Philadelphia, the day
and year j.bovemehtiooed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
1 Secretary of the Treasury.
SCHEDULE
Of Quart er-Towiifhips to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
fuarce of the 6th region'of anaSof Congrtls palled on
tht' 18th day of Jitay, 1796.
1 1 t2 a *
i- s I
ju .9- ■ -jt s!c
fbC x r °
C E u-. £-1
p. > > o
fci O r ° W
L H E- 1 2 i «"
\ - s < e "
k £ = - £
\f i 6 U
Li
■ 2 I Sotth East 5120
1 North East 5120
/' South Weft 5120 — .
North Welt <j\zo
m > — 20,480
■ 3 5 South East 5120
JL Nolh East 5120
South Weft 5120
1 4-. North Weft 5120
if 20,480
j 1 South East 5120
1 North East 5120
jj South Weft 5120
■ North Weft 5120
,■* 20,480
f 9 South East 512®
j North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
1 20,480
11 South East 5 120
North East 51 20
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
4 4 Sauth East 5120
North East 5120
• South Weft 5120
Notth Weft 5 120
1 20,480
6 South East 5120
1 Norjth Baft 5 120 :
j South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
1 8 Sotith East 5^20
North East 5120
I South Weft 5120
Narth Weft 5120
li - .20,480
h 10 South East 5120
>. North East 5120
h SonthWeft 5120
'' ® NortflWeft ci 20
"
. I 20,480
j! iz South East 5120
ji North East: 5120
h South Weft 5120
3. North Welt 5120
' 20,480
- 5 3 South East 4602
II . ' North East 4654
I* South Weft 5120
h North Weft 5120
" a , a u u 1 9.49 6
?• 5 South Eafl 5120
North East 5120
' South Weft 5120
p_ North Weft 5120
:h o . t, , 20,4^0
:h 7 South East 5120
:h North East 5120
South Weft 517,0
North Weft 5120
g South East 5120 '^°
aion? East! 5 i 20
.1 fur- ootlth Welti 5120
hav* NerthWelt! 5120
20.4841
c .
fc' % . Cu
.£ s'l
Sc . | « I
c cu U; ,q
(S <= ® of £ f
£S P P V -2
«-w fe . U "9 H
•,o w 5
r. *-> 5
■ 1 !> . 15
i o cS
1 - .
t c ii South Ea(tsi2o
f North East J 120'
South Well 5120.
1 North Weft j 120
1 j 20,480
j 13 .S iurh East 5120]
d North Eaftsl2o (
South Wed 5120
e NortlrWeflUiao' '
h . 1 ' 20,48 ° !
6 4 South £aft 4630
North East 4620
r- South Weft 5 120
:d North Weft 5120
fn '9.49°
6 South East 4730
a- North East 4715 1
ill South Weft 512.0j
' ; North Weft 5 120
" t " *9»« 8 5
ce 8 Sauth East 5120
n- ( North East 5126
' !Soulh Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
re* . 2 °* S °
0- 10 South East 5 120
:e, North East j 120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5 120
; r . 1L ; 2®,480
be iz South East 5 130
North East 5 120
*y South Weft 512 c
North Weft .5^20
ab^So
14 South East 5 120
North East 5120 . V
South Weft 5120
ir- North Weft y 120 1
on 20,480
_ '7 3 Soath gaftsl2o
~~ North East 5 120
South Weft 5120 •
North Weft 51 zo
——; 30,480
5 South East Jl2O
North East y 120
South Weft j 120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
'7 South East J l2O
North East j 120
South Weft j 120
- j Jklotx-K V/vfl } L2O
20,480
9 South East 5 120
North East 5 120 . . ' .
South Weft j 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
11 South East 5 1 20
North East 5 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft j 120 1
20,480
South East 5120
North East 5 120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
- ie,480
15 South East 5120
Norjh £afl 5 123" •
South We" 1 > 120
v -■ North Weft 5 120
20,480
NOTE.
THE quantities of Lands in the several townships be
fore rgentioned,are exclufivs of tire Se&ions refcrved by
the United States. The aggregate quantities ih the feva
fal townlhips, have beert ascertained by a&ualfurvey j but
the quantities in the quarter tovynfhips, have been no
otherwise afcertVmed than by calculation.
Waihmgton Canal Lottery,
i i -""W -N"'-. 1. —
jState of Maryland has authorised
V V the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Waihington, from th P«'
tomacto theEaftem Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME o£ No. f.
Viz -1 Prize of 40,000 dollars, lo.ootj
1 ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn 7
Tickets, each j S '°°° 35,000
6 ditto' i,ooo 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
40 ditto 100 4.000
J5 ditto 50 tJJQ
S;7S° ditto x» 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 46,450
5850 Prizss, . ,175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000 •
. 'fit The Commiflioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aift for the punctual payment of
the prizes.
Hie drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets ant fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after tht
drawing is finiihed, Iball be considered as relinquished for*
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
, DANIEL .CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS)
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. m.duncanson,
* THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Waihington, Feb. i-l. 5
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO,
—No. 119 —
CHESNUT-STREET.
« [Price Eight Bdlsrs per AimiKuJ