•jajette vk «nittß ©tatts, 6- Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
mnkisojtr srwii« Norember 9 , '79&___ _
tfufiisin 1301.] ; g a j e , The El&phant is returned from JSaltt-
I ~~~ ' cat r 1 For Sale, or Charte , ■ r „\o„rA the fhiit Concord, I * lL . - , ...
I FOR SALE,
<< ■<?"" 7K£ SHIP MART, jL? ;
; SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
Two hsmdred tons burthen. App'y lo
JOSEPH ANTHONY, *C»v sn(lie
Tf MARY is not fold in a few dayt, fokfrill tafce - u
f, ijrhr tor Hamburg. Apply a* a bove - d at avc
Ocl.-ber 31- — —-j
: "VriS. ' For New-York,
77* ,«>r/'<»«*r Mary,
• " TofutfCoußt!*' "»•»««• fc jJ 10 ' I b
/ J=. ,/arduV e freiphtyers'low. AppKrt (
Anthony r 4 :
Nov. .1 ______ .
IWV arrived and will this day be lan- inn
J *2rtHZS the brig FAVORITE a, Chefnut Hyl
I' Tit™ bejl R«(fia Clean HEMP, -<
** As
. c o Pieces brown llulTii SHEbI INO , duio)
jeo Bolis Russia DUCK, , 1
j*
Joseph Anthony 2nd -C®..
r««""a_, The above mentioned BRIG
W ;U f,il in'* few days, and tak ■ freight on 40
moderate letma for Boston or Salem, tor g t
er passage, apply on board or at above
Oftoher 31 ■ — — Ni
"" ' For Freight or Charter,
The {hip COMMERCE,
/fflfiFOl NATHANIEL CURTIS, Matter ±-
S&FMfcA Almofta new vcffcl, .44:10ns burthen, and will
pSr*wii fee re«<fyT» rreciv* a carqo in a lew nays, ro , ms,
terms »pply on board at Bright*" wh.rf, er to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
For Sale on boanl the above Vejtl,
A quantity of excellent COAL. K
Pcifons having goods on board, are earncftly requcft
nd to fend their permits.
Oflober H. t " 9t
Sot Freight or Charter to Europe, or £
|„ the Weft-Indies,
1 The new Brigantine I
FAIR AMERICAN, I j^ 1
Richard Callcy, Master.
IS in corpnluat order, and in readiness for receiving J
a cargo. She is a handy vessel, and has good accom- c «h
inodations for paflengers. Apply to Captain Cai:ley,
on board Oid vessel, laying the upper fide of the SuU-
House wharf, Seuthwark, or to
Isaac Harvey, jtm.
No. i, So. Water- street.
nth mo. xft. . , r lw ~- J
j—, FOR LONDON,
The capital fhtp CERES,
To Tail fo«n :-For freight or passage J
to SAYY, RMOIS oc Co. <*A
'John Vaughan, |
to- Front-flmt. . 1
TAf Brig MART,
tying at Mtffrs. Willings and Francis's J
»000 barrels, built in Philadelphia in 1793 J
of live, oak and red cedar.—She is well found, and may I
befent to lea at a small ex pence. ?or terms apply to
Gurney & Smith. ""I
oa. 6.
For BRISTOL,
ADELPHIA, 1
WlkiMM-iSL Theodore Bliss, master. 4.
A new lhip, on her feeond voyage, witl) the best j «
tecommodations for pafietlgers, and is intended toiail
With all expedition. For freight or patlage apply to I ,
the Master on board, or to
Thomas tif John Clifford:
Who havt jnfi imported in fiid veflel, and have for
sale, besides their gef.eral aOoftment J
i . -'..1—- IBONMOKREI<V,
A quantity of fine drawn and" common slurp and
flat point KAILS ; double & fincle rell'd Sheet Iron ; 1
Iron Pots, Kettles, and Iron Weights, of all sizes ; I
London and Briflol Pewter in calks, afTorted ; boxes
of Tin Plates; easeS of Men's, Women's and Boys'
Hats j crates of earthen art*'. *-mt Glats Ware ; crates I _
of Phials; boxes of Wiiidow-Gl.tfc ; boxes of lo«g j
and fbort Pipes; Copper in Sheets ; Oval Quart Bot
tles in hampers; also, a few Afics of bottled Beer,
and two bales of Superfine Broadcloths ajid Caffi- I
meres. Oaober m&thaw I H
tor Liverpool,
Th« Ship DOM Wit K TERRY, p.
Jacob Dihart, Master. B
' Has a part of her cargo engaged.— "
for freight or passage apply to the mas- _
' ' ter on board, at the whar. of the sub
scribers, or, _ . I
Jeffe y Robert Wain. I
, N<:V - r " ■ . r • ij -- *
For Lisbon,
TheDanifbbarque.BENirjNTUßA,
Samuel Stub, Master,
W l 7?, A good vessel of about two hundred j
tons burthe«. For freight or passage 1
apply to
Jejfe & Robert Wain.
Nov. 71 i. 1
On TUESDAY EVENING, the"Bth inft. I (
/St the Merchant's Crjfee-Houfe, : 1
The Schooner Lucy, J
Nov." lying at Chefnut-ftreet wharf; a fine, flout I !
built vefill, one hundred and sixteen tons byrthen; in !
every refpe<ft well found, and may be sent to sea at a j '
small expence —the inventory mjy be fcen at the J
Corupting-Houfe of the fubferibers, or at Footman
1 aod Co. auftibneers.
Joseph Anthony fcf Co.
Nov. 5. <1
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DI/tNA, ''
Samuel Pilt, Master, _ ( y r
Burthen 105 47*95. ,ons r< » ifter .' Em:
0 Philadelphia in the year 1791, « " ve °»* Hot
1 1 . (hpj'he it ni'inths ago, 1 e Q] a
' gasi"wi «*. " a «"* bc r ™'" r " >«
. "" 7!**£££•[*«4\
Phi hp' hickhn o' Co. 6=
irho ha"je for fair on hoard fold vfjt!, A f
17 caJk# of fcw *«li«w . . .
9 'boxcsandi» handle, of writing fla'e..
I i box ink fUnds and note prclTc.
14 hales of fail canvass.
And. on hand, Cai
Imperial | ~
lt Hyson, and, V TF, A tv. Soa
SoilchOns; 3 cur ft ® o!
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the fir ft quality- Mc
. 19 tubs Quicksilver.
' 2 chests Bandanno handkerchief*.
A few chcfts Manchcfter goods well assorted »n Cor
duioys, thickfcta, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities.,fe.
■i boxes black sewing silk.
IHo crates Qoeeiu ware \v«l aflorttd. ,
10 tens ltieet lead. /
Nails assorted. flat and sharp points.
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipu
London MsJ'ket, f an( J hogflieads. r ,
New-Vork Market, ) he {
40 pipes and 10 hoglheads TenerJe wine. s<[
or 8 tierccs Snake Root.
>VC 230 logs Mahogany. ttfiWtf
— Nov 7- —^— A
r For Charter, /v
' iTLn The Ship JOHN BULKELT, Mefl
vill fcfMlk Ayitks Stoc-rliv, Master, p)
For An excellent hvc-oak and cedar biult
10 (hip, of about 3000 barrels burthen Ap
,o. to j c jf e tf Robert w —
NOV. 7. ' y ... ' t t
eft- For SALE or CHARiLK, j V?J
The Brigantine LIBERTY, j (
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Matter. nor ,
or Now lying at Albertfon'* wlurf-- dw«
is an txceUettt vessel, will carry a- « -
bout 1300 barrels flour, is coropleta y
r found, and ready to receive a cargo. For terra, ap
'» ply afflo, 149, South Front-street. thel
[Where may be had ly the package only, a fr
nng a small consignment of DRY GOODi, just re- b(^
01T1- J chived—-c on fitting of, •
S Superfine Hairhine, & l CAMBLETS. ccj
j China 3 ' P s !
I Crapes, '
Corded Poplins, _
am a ccon,
j Gujcnths,
Biftas,
t Caffaes, 1
ffsgs j Tickerys,
,^ r i Pnnjim r
Hutnhums, '
) j Gurrahs,
Black Taffefies,
' Barl.ar, ) rul
Pullicat, & £ am
J Bandanna „)
icis's I Choppa Ronials, ,'", c
[793 I Patna Chintiee, Sc. &c.
may I Likewile a few hhds prime Molasses, 1
j A large quantity of best Rhode-lflaud Cheese ?
1. I 50 boxes Spermaceti candies, and p'
i.f A few barrels Beef.
-+ Qftolrtr 27. Sa
For Sale. k "
The Ship CHARLOTTE, &c
[A, J A stout vessel, about jjo tons bur* _
tKe*>,_ veil found and may be lent to
, sea at a small expeuce.
! / i | Apply to ti
,l y 4 Joseph Anthony and Co.
I Not. 8. '
re for " OLD " " *
e j London Particular Madeira Wine,
In pipes, hogsheads and quatter-calks,
J lnd Landing this dav at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, and
IZV.\ for We by
boxes Joseph Anthsny & Co.
Boys' Nov. j. d
crates I — >...—.—- ■ i.
i»ng Printed Calicoes.
t Bot- I
Cam- JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO. 1
<ih?w j Haye received per the Wiliiam Pcnn, in addition to i
their own afforment,
I A consignment of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele-
IRT, p
;ant London patterns; also a few cases of I
Buttons—Which will fte fold at a (hort credit, on very
;ed.— reafonahle terms, by the package oaly.
e | Oft. >4- . . dtf
lefub " jo hogsheads St. Croix Rum,
r J Pipes Vinegar,
n \ For Sale, by r
Ezekiel Hall, f
No. 10, Penn Street.
ruRA, Nov. J. .
; ndrfd Fashionable Waistcoating.
jafTase 1
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
l n - SOUTH THIRD-STREET, 1
I Has received per the Diana, from London,
I Clouded and striped Spanish Swanfdown
j Clouded Errainats and Molelkirts
] Striped do. and do,
toufe, j Figured Manillas
V, 1 Scarlet figured Erminetg
' rj 0 , Jt I Printed Florinetts
en • in D°- Caffmets and Cafiimtres
ea 'at a Superfine printed Quillings, newest patterns
al t j, c j Also, per diff' reiit arrival*,
>otman A large and general' assortment of Dry I
Goods,
,0 * Suitable to the present and approaching season.
d November 5. dtf
1 \
' 7 -
For Sale,
This day Lmt£ng from on board the pP Concord,
Captain Tt-npfan, from Attijltrdam,
Gin, in fires , ,
, Empty Gm Caf's
Hock in cafos of 4 dot. • frreet
ie Glass Tumblcrs in chests Four
1 Sweet Oi: in cufci _ A.
Cheese in boxes, ttrc.
Also l.anii:: 3 ly the_ Copt. Bell, Jrcm t.Zen
60 Q L'.:>i r ' V'inej
On liiiid. ex ll
Aov r..idv, Haile-Uuts b
' Peter Blight.
°<V
For Sale,
Carolina Rice in whole and halt' ticrees, 3°
Cotton of Cayenne and Trinidad. ulc
Soat Leather, entitled to drawback, *<*
Eofton Beef, and
Mould asd dipt can dies —A nply to
isaac Harvey, jun.
Nft. i, South Water-ftrett. Tene
' r * , djw. Win
V, »oth mo. 17. — Se^
For Sale, Tw
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage, —2.
15 Confifiift" of different fzes, from 11 inch cables down
to rope of 1 inchds, of different lengths: Imported in
the fliip Swift, ScaflU-iull* and. ent.tied to drawback.
i^
For Sale, '
A Three-flory BRtCK HOUSE and I.©t, in Ohefnut
A street, between Front and Second fttuets, in which Con
■, Messrs. James Calbraith &Co. have for many years (and
' nojv do) carried on business.
„;n Polfeflion will be given in one month, or foaner.
. For terms »pyly to WILLIAM BEI.L, OI _
X P- HF-CTOR CALBRAHH. difp
_ »r" £— j£,
TO BE SOLD,
j A LOT of GROUND, 164 feet 7 inches front on South
j Water-street, and on the Dchvrare tie
I fame width, with a wharf thereon in g?ofxs repair On the j
er - I north fide adjoining Vunallay, is a lang« and well built —
•fv- dwelling hosfe, tmsl eoiiotiag houf»,communicitting with
va, oaeh 9th*, 4f leet wide, a fpaciois kit»l«n, and other
talv planntdaKOmmodatioftS, rtdbelOV thtffe a ftacic of Ha
, ln stores, 6a feet in from, by 9,} feet in length, built afew
years rgtr; on tfc: rennrirrdfTof the lot on Water-ftreetj
there are two brick dwelliiljs, a Cooper's shop, &
a frame ftori, now occupied .by Mr. Alw«der Tod, and j-gjj
re " hounds adjoiblng the ftoresof the lieirs of thfe late Joseph
Wharton. It wiil be better dsfcribed by drafts and p ips
of the £fcuni, ?n'd buiidiags, to be seen at JOHN WILy
fXJCKS's coiiipting hcuf?, cfn she prensifes, and of -whom
particulars of (aie nv»y he pbtai^d.
The whole will b :o:d together, or detathed at may T
beft suit the p-jreiiifef, nov. 5 § V
Imported In the late arrivals,
And to If. Sold by tor
JACOB PARKE,
Ko* j fide of High-ftraefi, Plii3a<iciphia»
A GEN SKA 1 ASSOk-TfiiEK* OT
Ironmongery,: Cutlery, Sadlery, &c.
AMIHWn *''<H A*"-
SMfrHS' Anvils, Vices, endffles: Saw-mill, Cross
cut. Hand, and oth«» Sftivti Caipejjtert' Planes, Chisels,
and o;her Tools; Carving Chisels .and Gouges; Locks,
■ Hinge-, Bolts and Latches; Nails, iprigs lacks, and
Screws; Fryijig-Pans; Smoothiflg*lrons;' Shovels and
Tongs; Cffit A; Cmdlellicks; Snuffers; Warming-
Pans' • Table Knives alid Forks ; Riding Whips; Bar
low Peh, arid ofhir Kniyts; Razor? ; Sciffarf ;
Needles; Ivory and Horn Combs; best Kirby Fish
Hooks; btafs Cabinet FtlrSi.itxre; Wagijon Boxes; Sheet
plated »ndon'd Bridle Bir* and Stirrups; itto
:—— Sa die Nails-, Girth acd Straining Wehbs; moll qi
kinds of Iroampngcty, Cutlery, .Sadiery, Brass Warts, th
• r» &c. Sic
f' 6a«ber 44. mwf6w de
bur- . . . . m
Sales of India Goods. di
The Cargo ef the ship Oioges, capt- Tingey, from Cal-
'. cutta and Bengal
|jf. consisting or
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
I\ COTTON and SILK GOODS.
among which are
1 A variety fine worked and plain Mufiins,
Doreas, fefc. Also,
' A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
0. For Sale by
d Willings y Francis,
No. »i Penn Street. e
June 8 § p
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent, s
on to /CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alieant and Lif-
\*J bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
6, ele- 4* Pipes of Brandy
jlfome it Bales of Spanish wool
n very 3 do. of Annifeed
7&00 Bushels of best Lisbon Salt
tf 80 Boxes of Lemons .
* For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO, j
Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the fiiip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart, ,
from Kingston.
Sept. 13. d
reef. — ,
A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
VG. DRY GOODS.
John Miller, jun & Co.
> Exelnfive oT their rnvn Importation now opening,
Have received hy the William Penn, Caroline and Diana
0 „ t r CONSIGNMENTS,
Which cosnprize a capital assortment to opea a
Dry Good* Store.
—Amongst them ar«—
Common, super and fuperfine Cloths,
Plain, twill'd and ftrip'd Coatisgs,
Baizes and Flannels,
Point, rose and duffil Blankets,
Plain and puntea Caffimeres,
Swanfdowns,
Printed Calicoes,
DrV Scotch Threads,
I Hosiery.
They will he fold either in whole, or in part, hy the
afon. package, on. term, which render them an obit-it worthy of
Itt attention to porwiiders. ,j t f
The Els-mast is returned from halti
more.
THE public are refptftfullv informed, thrt
this a- irtnl i» to be Itfen every day, friim 3
o'clock in the m >tni'!g fi'l Iwn down, in Market
ftreet, Ho. IC6, south &Jc, between Tiii.-J and
Fotirthftrerts.
Admit a quarter of a dolhr, thievery ci
i, tizen may fee
<£/? At the reqtiefi if many perf«riß it wtl*. be
ex itilted on evenings from five to c clock,
at half a dollar cach.—The rocra will be well
''-m/stis: ' -?*» : ./• . •:
_ November 7. q
Madeira Wine.
30 Pipes of the very be ft quality, and fit for immediate
life, just imported in the schooner Lucy from Madeira,
Mkd for f»le by
"John Craig,
N.o. 12, Dock-ftrcet.
Wtio has for £ale,
Tenerifft Wine, ia pipes, hogfliende, and qr. calks.
Window Glass.
"* Segars, &c. ie.
Iwo trunks of the bed Cotton and Siik
Ot Hosiery.
paoher 4. mwftf ,
"£ brokers Ottice, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. <3 3<nrth Third street, opposite the national new Bank.
— QAMUEL M FR UNCI'S and JOHN VAN REED,
O have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of
lut FHaONCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
i c h Conveyancers and Cotnmiflion merchants. They buy and
in J fell on commiflion every fpeties of stock, notes of hand,
bills at exchange, houfefs and lande, &c.
ivfoNET procured on deposits, &c. &c. *11 kinds C-.
writings in the convcyaneitig line, done with ncatnefsand
difpatc'h \ accounts adjuftecl, and books fettled, in the
5 moil corrcft. manner. Constant attendance will be given.
7- They foiicit a shire of the p-ibiic favor j they are dcter
■ to endeavour to defervo it.
N. B. Tlit Btmoft secrecy observed.
u ' h S * MUfc L M. FR A UNCES,
JOHN VAN REED
uilt Philad. Auguit. Z7, X?q6. m&wtf
vith Benjamin and Jacob Johnicn,
her No. 147, Market-street,
: of Have received by <he l»Il arrivala from Liverpool and
few Hull,
A very general ajfortment of DRY GOODS,
We)l fujited to the approaching Isafon, which they will
r iri i* fell on the i«»ve£t tefwa by »he 9t package,
ans Oi>«ber 14. tawfir
honi Washington Canal Lottery,
N°. 1.
ma V TT rHEREAS the State of Maryland h*< authorised
_i_ W the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thoufartd,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cuttihjf
a Canal through the City of \Vafhinsjton, froAi th !'»-
tomaeto thegaftem Branch Harbour.
The followihg i« lite SCHEME of No. I.
a Viz -I Prize of 20,009 dollars, 20,000
' I ditto 10,000 10,000
fee. TiSSSr}■
6 dkto 1.000 ifiCO
r o f«- 10 400 4,<5C0
ifels, 20 4#t# 100 »,COO
»cks, JJ ditto 5Q a,750
and J 7jo ditto 12 ,69,008
and To he raifad for thf Canal, 26,259
ling — —-
Bar- 58JO Priz«s, 175,000
Tars ; 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
Fish
Sheet 17500 Tickets jt Ten Dollars, - 175,000
itto $5" The Commifuoners have taken the Securities re
moll quired by the aforefaid aft for the punctual payment of
'arts, the prizes.
The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
5w delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finifhed, (hall be considered as relinqui/hed for
c , the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signd) NOTLEY YOUNG,
D ANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
[adras LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
, Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
' JAMES BARRY.
Cits of Wa(hing.o», Feb. It, $
~ I A ND I N G,
Out of different v/Jfch from England, and for sale
' by the fubjeribers on rep fan able terms,
cct * Superfine and common cloths, and
§ Ribbed and striped do. do.
• Blankets, mottled green and silk rugs.
lent J Superfine blue. Claret, and common coatings,
j Lif- Kerseys, Bear-flcins, plains and Halfthicks,
Swanfkine, Serges and Flannels,
Britiih Ingrain Carpeting,
Hatsafforted in cases of 12 doz. each.
Choeolatc chintzcs, printed Callicoes and Handkerchicfo.
Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
Yarn, Worftcd, and Cotton hosiery,
Beavers, Thickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. &c.
" BufTand drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality.
6d. 8d tod I2d. icd. nails, and frying pans,
it Anaffortment of Ironmongery, Cutlery and a variety
: Hart, 0 f India cotton, and silk goods.
d Thomas £sf "JoJhua Fisher.
No. 5, Dock-fttrect.
p Also by the Glasgow from Dublin,
t-8 and 4-4 Irish affortedin boxes of 30 pieces,
do. Brown, Glazed Linnen.
0 oa - 1 7- dtf.
1 ' JOHN MILLER, jun. & (jo.
Diana No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late vessels from Eur»ue &c
and have lor sale, ' '
A general affortm.nt of GOODS, suitable tp the season—
Amongst which art.
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
Flain and twill'd COATINGS,
Role striped and point BLANKETS
FLANNELS and BAISES, *
HATS assorted in cases,
IRISH LINENS,
INDIA GOODS, generally,
A Consigned Invoice of IRONMONGERY
Comprising a capital afTortir.ent to open aftorr' m.t,
• hrthe ding Thirty Caflcaof NAILS. Thi, £ vo i ce wTb^W
01 thy of entire on very advanttgsous terras, '
'• 2-1. September 20.
Olilt; PANTHEON,
Ai.d Ricketts's Amphitheatre,
\ ' i'ot Equestrian and Stage performance!, Corner ol
Chefnut and Sixth streets
THIS EVENING, Wedaefday, November 9,
The Public are refpeilfully informed that
Mr. FRANKLIN, From London,
And one cf the Managers of the Royal Circus, will
'rnake his firft appearaaue ill America, and exhibit le
' tral.pieafmg feats in
Horfemanftiip.
TIGHT ROPE DANCING,
By Signior Spinacuta, who will dance on the r«pe
: ' \ S'oodeit Shoes, and perform several other wonder
u! feats, peculiar to himfclf.
Mqfter Franklin, 9 years old y
0 (FriJm Aftiey's Amphitheatre, LondoA)
. "Will perform Feveral Pleaiing Feats
Or a irngle Horse, in full speed, for the third time
America.
U. RICKETTS, 'Mr. F. RICKETTS, Master
-.IUTCHINS and Mr. SOLLY, Clown to the Horfe
inanlhip, will go through a varietv of
Equestrian Exercises,
she whole to conclude with the Grand Serious Pan
tomime, under the immediate direction of
Mefirs Stilly and Spinacuta,
Thfe DEATH of CAPT. COOK,
In the Island of Owyhee, ih the Pacific Ocean.
"A'ith the Original Music, Dances, Decorations, &c.
Scenery Painted by Mr. Shnydore.
, Captain Cook, (of the Refohition J Mr. Sully 1
' First Lieutenant, Mr. Ricketts.
Midshipman, Mi. F. Ricketts
Sailors and Marines, Supernumeraries
Tereboo (King of Owyhee) Mr. Tompkins
-Perea, (the favorite lover of Emai) Mr. Duraag
Priest, Mr. Durtng
Warriors, Supernumaaries.
Koah, (riveneeful lover of Emai) Mr. Sjiinatuta
Emai, (the Kings daughter) Mrs. Spinacuta
I M '"
In a£l I. the method of conrtfhip and marriage ce-
Temony ia Owyhee, with a beautiful View of the
liland.
Manner of a Single Combat, with Battle Axes. 1
In ail 11. the arrival of Captain Cook in the ffiip
Resolution ; his reception by the King and Watriors
•of Owyhee'; a War Dance by the Natives , their
Preparation for War, and manner of Sacrifice, with
An exacl reprefentatioh
Of the Death of Captain Cook, by
the Warriors.
In a<fl TIL the Ftmerai Ceremonies made use of
at Owyhee, with a Proccffion of to the
Monument of Captain Cook, with Military Honors.
The whole to conclude with
An awful representation of a Burn- <
ing Mountain.
Mr. RICKETTS takes this opportunity of inform
ing the Indies Gfßtlemen who attend the R'ding-
School, that he has, at oonfiderabie expense, engaged
■Mr. Franklin, to give lefTons in the art of riding and ]
managing Horses, as he finds it irapoffible to attend to J
it himfelf, in confequente, of a variety of business 1
•which he is at present engaged in. ;
*.* The Ladies and Gentlemen who feenre feats "in a
the day time, are requellcd to attend punihially at 7, c
-as the performances are so arranged as to conclnde by r
10 o'clock—the doors will open at 6. t
0" Box, 7s. 6d.—Pit, 3s. 9d. (]
Tickets to be had of Mr. Ford, at the ticket office in
Chefnnt-ftreet, from ten to three o'clock each; day.
Silver Tickets, to admit for the fsafon, to be had 0
by applying to Mr. P icketts at the Pantheon, or at Oel- a
lcrs's Hotel. I
$!$' Days of Performance to be Monday, 'Wednes
day, Thursday and Saturday.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
Will bs repeated,
The Grand Serious Pantomime of \
The Death of Captain Cook ; *
With a Vkriety of O'her Entertainments. "
Philadelphia, November 6,1796.
ALL persons desirous to contrail for furnilhing «f
Rations -and Quarter-Mailers stores. for the *
troops in Philadelphia or Fort-Mifflha, on Mud Ifiand, ?
•during the year 1797 —are requeiled to fend their pro- '
pofals sealed, on or before the firft day of December
next, to ,
TENCH FR ANCIS, Purveyor. tf
The component parts of the Rations, are V
1 pound of Flour or Bread
1 pound of Beef or 3.4 of a pound of Pork
t-i a gill of Rum, Brandy n.
or Whilkey ti
x quart of Salt a
1 quarts of Vinegar i _ _ ,
»■ pounds of Soap j" For icO Ration.
1 pound of Candles J cc
Nov. 9 ffcftD la
james IVlufgrave,
* GOLDSMITH & JEWELLER, «
HNe. 42, fcuth Se-cond-flreet, °1
AS just received ay aflartmcrit 0/ Plated Ware Vl
and Jewellery, Plated Tea and Coffee Urns, Coffee
Vots, Tea ditto, Caltors from 5 to 8 bottles, Sugar and
Cream Basons, Bottle Stands, Baikets, high Candlefties, C
Brackets and Chamber ditto, Branches, Sconces, a variety
Sf Silver and Plated Sho; La'chets, Spurs, 55V. tsV. war- p ,
r i teH of the heft plate; Ladies and Gcntlemens Gold er
Watch Chains, Seals and Keys; Necklaces, Neek Chains, t ,
- ••■ar Hugs, Finger Rings, Lockets, Bread Pins, Stoi»e
K\)«.Buckles, with many other a,tides in the above
briaihes. 111
l l'j has likcwife receivfd an txtenfive afiortment of
. ann'd tea and coffee Urns, perfun, blue, brown,
r! t*k and gols. * -
All kinds of work in the gold and silver line; minia
i-s set, and hair work executed at usual.
ivovember 9. tu th &' f y
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
Price 37 1-2 Cents.
'a iic Pretensions of Thomas Jeffer- ""
son to the Presidency,
EXAMINED,
Arid the Charges againiijohn Adams
REFUTED.
A kdrefted to the Citizens of America in general
and, particularly,
To the EleClors vf the President. L "
Sold by
-OUNC, MILLS & SON, Corner of Second a]
auu Chefauc-fir««ts.
r.vamhcrj. tt , !
Robert Smith & Go.
No. 58, South Front-Jlreet,
of received by the late arrivals fr#m London, Liver
pool, and Hull, and fey the Ohi« arrived at N. York
from Glasgow,
A large & general afiortment of Goods,
Suitable for the Sea/on, confijling of
Duffle, Point and Rose Checks, in finall packages
"" Blankets Oznahurgs and Brown Hoi
'e* White, Red, and Yellow lands
Flannel Brown and white Russia
Bocking and other Baizes Sheetings
Second and coaj-fe Cloths Drillings and Diapers
Plain and mixed Caflimeres Calicoes and Chintaes
'P e Plain, twilled, and Jaconet and Book Muflint
er- Coatings ' Jso. do. Tamboured
Plains, Ketfeys, and Half- Do. do. Handkerchiefs
th eks Printed linen-nd check da.
White ic spotted Swanskins Rotnal and Madrafs do.
Lainet and fwanfdown vefl , Mufiin and ChintK Shawls
jg lhapes Bed Ticks
Carpets and Carpeting Table Clodis
11 c Callmancoes and Durante LaccS and Edginjfs
Moreens and Taboreens Falhionable Ribbons
' fr Joans Spinning and Crapes Do Hats and Bonnets
Camblets and Wildbores Cotten & Worsted Hosiery
Bombazeens dc Gloves and Mitts ,
Ratriiiets and "Shalloons White & coloured Threads !
Plain, Genoa and printed Italian Sewing Silks I
Velverets & Thicksets Ivory and Horn Combs ]
7-8, 4-4, and 11-8 Cotton | Tapes, Bindings, Pins, &c.
They have on hand a large assortment of India Muslins '
and Calicoes, black and coloured Persians, Bandanno and '
Pnllicat Handkerchiefs, tic. and'a quantity of Nutmegs
and Mace. 1
:c - OAober 17. mwflm I
SALTPETRE. ;
A larjre quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre fer '
sale at No. a/, South Third-flreet.
November 5. dtf ®
Bed Boftoa & Nova-Scotia Mackarel, '
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbls.
47 bbls. prime'CoffCc, t
Best Boston Beef^
j, Codfilh in hd». t
Sperraaeeti Candle,,
Spermaceti, and 7 « , T
Northern }° 1 L J
Mould at>d dipt, tallow candles, a fupcrior
qwiity. )(
p A few boxes excellent hrewn fuap,
r» 6 Balei of Corks. ,
ir 40 Pipes excellent Lisbon Wine.
h A few sacks of Feathers. ''
A few bales India MuHins. "
„ FOR SALE BY P
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co. ?'
Oaoberji. d
e To be Sold, di
AT PUBLIC VENDUE. h
~ On Tharfday the 6tb day of April next, at 12 t't/nei. u
at Dougherty's tavern, in the town »f Winchejltr, w
in Virginia, the following lands, fttuats in the /aid ol
li Jlate, viz. ct
No. 1.—430 Acres, *c
d Of excellent land on the waters of Back-cmk, in h;
1 Freddink effunty, on the great road leading to the ri
0 South Branch, akout tel\ miles from Winchtrter, 100
« teres of which is rich bottom, a fine llream running
through it, with fevwal springs, the trees in the bottom
1 are chiefly sugar maple, black walnut, hickory and lo- "
, cuft. There is a log dwelling and outihoules, i'orae ' u
f m»adow mide, and 40 icrcs of upland cleared. On an
this tract there is a good mill-feat, where an under* nc
shot-mill might be ereiled. a ,
1 No. 2.—800 Acrei. m
Situate in Hampshire county, on the north branch ta
of the Potowmack, and on a branch called Cabbin-run,
about eight miles from Fort Cumberland. On this 8 '
trail is* large quantity of rich bottom, fit for meadow
or the culture of hemp, the upland remarkably good, A
being chiefly timbered with walaut and hickory. The rr
above tradt is in two surveys ef 400 acres each. fl<
* No. 3 —200 Acres. oc
Situate in Franklin county, about ten miles from f 0
WinclMjfler. On this tra« there is a dwelling house
and part of the land is cleared, the remainder is finelv
timbered. *
No. 4. —A Lot of Ground.
F In the town of Woodftock, Shanandoah county, th
, whereon is treiTted a two story house, and other im- ria
' prevements, and a ten acre lot for the eonyeniency of th
said tdwn lot. 1 1 t j j
No. 5 —250 Acre,. hii
Situate about two miles from W»«dftock. Part of M
this trail is in«ultivation, i»finely tjmbersd, and a eood
quantity of meadow may be made.
No. 6.—>400. Acre,. tei
Situate in Hampshire county, on George Andes'; mill
run, on a branch of the Cafapchon. This trail is finely wc
timbered, there is good bottom land, whieh raitht be an
easily converted into meadow. "
No. 7 —One moiety of 5000 Acres. pu
Th- aewat " 6 e [ Hu ghes's rivet, in Harrifon L
county. 1 his was purchased at one quarter of a dol- L
lar per acre, calh above 8 year* ago. ta
. No. S 41,900 Acres. ? 01
Lying irt the counties of Wythe, Washington, and
Orayfon (the greater part in Wythe,) on the Waters ma
ol Cripple creek and Fox creek, branches of New Ri- ter
ver, and on the sooth fork of Holflein. pri
T . , 9— 10,000 Acre,. ma
Lyingfm the county of Hardy, on the waters of Great W
Cacapion and I'sorth River. r
The terms of payment will be one third part of the •'
purchale money to be pa.d .in hand at the time of ex
ecutmg the deed or deeds of conveyance, the remaining rec
two thirds to be paid m equal instalments, at 12, 18 wh
and » 4 months thereafter securing those payments by
mortgaging the premises. 7 Dy f
Should any person wifu t» purchafc at private sale to
application may be made to John Holker, Esq. near
Wmchefter ; David Holmes, Esq. of W,n hef>er ,l ,
by letters, (pofl paid,) to the fubferiber in Phda'det
P ' I"? owner o( f *W lands, who will pern,. of 1
ly attend the sale on the day abovementiowi ha,
Pl , ~. J _ George Meade. p o<
1 hdadelphia, ii of November 1796. ,adv
diw w&s 1 MdtA.
Sheridan's Dictionary, o,i
THK SIXTH EDITION, ' ''if
Is this Day Published,
Br w. rovNc, m ills ts* son b*
Corner of Second and Chcfcut streets ' 8
in one large %-vo. 'volume. J»n f roi
a j Su!
___ r ,„
~For the GAZBTTb of the Unitlu States.
«r- phocion—No. xvirr.
ork j-p fema j n , now to coofider the pacific meafurcs,
i as Hampden call's them, which Mr. Jefferfon re
' commended to Congress, while Secretary of State,
to the perfidious conduit of Great-Bri- ,
joi! tain, raeafures which he asserts, would have been
more advantageous than those which have taken
iffia place; this confidcration will neccffarily involve a ,
confideratiou of the diplomatic talents And political ;
figacity of the Secretary, which are asserted, by j
i; ns Hampden, to be not inferior to his republicanism ,
and unalterable attachment to liberty, (
These themes of panegyric are comprized fn the c
6th and jth divifwni of Hampden's Essay. a
As to the 9th and last, viz. " Mr. Jerfferfons' a
poffefling a fortune no less independant than his prin. j
ciples," it is so extraordinary a fubjeft of rdcom- j
mendationin.the quarter from which it comes, and
as applied tn this limple republican and zealousaa- t
mirer of irquality, that we are at a loss to account f
for its flipping into this panegyric ; we (hall only
ads remark, that, in this rcfpe£t Mr. Adams nuift yield
to Mr. Jefferfqn ; the former, having a large fami t
ly and a fmill fortunedaes certainly not boast of the t
ins pecuniary advantages of the latter, who has a very,
UIC I small family arid an independent fortune,
egj Among the advantages which may result from ft
this foperioritV of riches, that of being able to attach p
to a chief magistrate ufeful imd zealous fuppsrtirs f (
of his adminiftratinn, will not be the leait important. f
And if a salary of only two hundred and fifty dol- n
lars, on a former oceafion, could procure fHch sup- (l
port, what may not be expected from the independ
p ent fortune of a Piefident, the whole of which p
— might conveniently by applied to the pensioning of
> Printers and Partisans. ; t
The .Executive Directory of France keep in y,
their pay regular Journalists, who publish their pro- rc
ceedings, vindicate them from attacks and endeavor C e
to -write down their afTailants. These Journals are
called the Official Journals of the Directory, and m
are known to colt the government an imraenfe sum ti
annually. j 1(
or We cannot then doubt, that with so ufeful a tii
lesson before his eyes, and not scrupulous about the
ueaos, i£ they attain certain ends, a~rich President, t h
devoted to every thing which comes from tfiat coun- ar
try, not being yet allowed to apply the public mo- v ,
nev to fiich purposes, will find a valuable aid in his "
private refourcea. Having just reason to dread the bf
severe displeasure of the people for molt of his mea- ag
fures, it cannot be doubted that Writers will be m
kept in pay to vindicate his official conduit, .and to f 0
defame his opponents. q
With refpeft >o the measures recommended by co
Mr. Jefferfon, telounteraft those of Great-Bri- G
t. tain; they are so connected with his correspondence 0 f
with Mr. Hammond refpedting the non-execution
of the Tieaty of Peace, that, in order to have a c ] s
complete view of the fubjeft, it will be proper to M
advert a little to that correspondence, for which he R,
n has received so much applanfe from his Panegy- f m
ie rifts.
® It is not intended- to deny to Mr. Jefferfon tlyr tm
S merit of having devoted considerable pain* to the f o j
k collection and digesting of the materials which were 0 f
i fursiftied him f«yn vaiiaus_ijiiArX«*_of theTfffilWJ" "ess
n and by the other beads of the executive department, *vii
> nor to withhold from him the requisite tribute of £ d
approbation for some /kill and ingenuity in com- we
menting upon tbem. But even were his epistolary h,
talents and his diplomatic (kill and ingenuity much
'j greater than they are admitted to be, by all those ] et |
v who have examined his works with more than a wo
, Superficial view, and are capable of judjririg of their OUI
c real merit, (till those talents and that (kill offer but agi
(lender pretensions for so high and important a ftati- b a t
on as that ps Chief Magistrate, if unsupported by ,hi
n found and corre& principles of government, great t h e
e purity and firmnefs of character, reditude of views, hai
' and flrong national attachments. the
of citizens arc to be found throughout the
■, t f ie United Slates competent to compose a memo- mei
- r ' a ' 8 ncat flippant stile, when furnifhed with par
f the necessary documents, and in a much (horter time cici
than it appears Mr. Jefferfon employed to compose coo
his taraons memorial, which was from the ah of wo ,
March to the 2Qth of May, twelve -weeks. f or
I (hall not lay mucfv stress upon the personal in- bee
tereft he may "have taken ia the issue of that discus- j t r
1 on » f' om his a-uo-wedhatred to England, which pu fc
! would Morally ftiraulate him to v 6 ry uncommon ' are
: and extraordinary exertions in such a contest, nor un^
(hall I take advantage of the charge which has been our
publicly brought against him, in a Virginian* news- t h e)
1 J? a P ei > " being conftderably indebted (notwith- w hi
(tanding his fortune) o« actount of debts originally
contracted with Enti/h fubjedts, by his late father
j in-law, prior to the revolution," but proceed to re- f
i maik that there was do fubjeft more likely to in- and
. tereft the popular passions and to enlist the national 'Wtu
pride on (he fide of Mr. Jeffnfon, than the fubjeft Stat
natter of his correspondence with Mr. Hammond. tain
t When thequefljpn was, which nation was to blame S"
for the non-execution of the Treaty of Peace, the
• citizens of this country were of course disposed to I
'■ rc "'^ e favor an d even admiration every thing gra]
( which bad a tendency to throw the blame on the »
, other party, and to overlook any inaccuracy of rea P a y
Jomng or vn/ogical deduaions y in a cause so flattering won
. to their national pride; ther
Yet it muit now be confeffed even by his ereateft w 'he
admirer., that amidt all the alledged excellencies of p
ot that correspondence, many concefwns
have been made by Mt. Jeffcfon, of which the op. T<
.a P d°vant^e y " 0t rCmir » in takiB S 8 fair To
Herein he has grossly forfeited his chara£ter for
political sagacity and exhibited proofs of a want of „
that caution and discernment so necessary in tranf
anions wt h foreign nations. I. allude among o- proE
thers, principally to the following instances. In tT J '
his great zeal to vindicate the courts of Virginia '^ C
gf , ad I dUCed b y Mr " HammrndufVheir
having rnfnnged the treaty, in refpeft to the pay- at . «
O debts, Mr. JeffeiTon replies that, "no na-
view
in IJth Ilft month (oa. V) whi<
I fitk rk' jft . whether a man indebted to Bri- P art
Stated ° Ught t0 Preside « 1'
* m t
= tion can answer for perfed e* a A:.
s - ings in all their iaferiur courts •it procctd
vide a supreme judicature, whe'e all '*° P rj
tialny will he ultimately coireded u™ i ". tl P ar *
""«> CCB of unlawful impediment havc'ex.'fi^"^
re- the inferior tribunal,, they Would like Lk" ™ y ° f
a'e, f«l proceedings, have been oier-r'uled or Unlaw -
the higher courts. If y oui i citizens w "^ eal
-n f eclUe their rlRh „ );t y wa ,
ken reeover them or be denied recovrv I 7 J
' * mal »f right through ALL the tribunal, J "'
teal NO GROUND FOR COMPLAINT" H ' * HEKE :s
by ferfon laid a great deal Tore than » Jrf "
ficient T' 'J thC r fiOD 1 h W ° Uld MS*?
ficient for him to have required autism' . f *
•1" of the p„cife cases, «fe? J,Vi mThI' 1
j and until they were produced he mieht ( '
,n * any further discussion of that po i nt
P r "de«ly volunteering the doftrire of Jl!? 'T
- y Mr * bunals, he !t fc
j 8 1,(h government soon after to aval! ,|, rt ,
a <4- this very dofttine, and of the authn V T!Sr
U."t lerfon to our injury. '5' :^r *. J«f
'■Jy w | len oar vessels ;n 11
c demsed in the Biitifh Vice S• • i j; 3,l )' con "
W the Weft-Indies and 1 Court, i a
the tin, ' complained of it the Rn° I
t.fh government retorted up a „ U3 thr , ' h " Bri l
»y. Mr. Jefferfon. P hc "Stents of
We could not justly comolain «f
3 *>*. "f-f r ».t trin?
«• JW f., according XiK?W >
<>'- not even a ground of complain til' i , j 1
id'
<i. j M'. jisrSdr'k' I ''' s " "•
»# Kssar ? r s
rendered inevitable by Mr. Jefferfon's /"/r 3
or ccflions f. s tndifcreettun-
Bd JJ w°r "* 0f Mr - Moon's diplo.
m T correspondence, „ rnay not hr
''«• * this place,ya&aihef e'Tci tial which
he committed in his lettc, to Mr. Genet ia »l.
a tion to the neutral code.
t J/S rt ? fc W ? dCC,^ d a " d Un «i uali avowal,
. that by the law ot nation, Great Britain had
o- Zjl - V " g 10 Fr,nch w r 'y in -
1' X H °Tm P fT' if !t
I bee " P° ffibl T * v " ldetJ . he (bould have been a, silent
a- a. the grave on so tender a fubjeft. This was the I
e more necessary as, at that very moment, negation.
» co ™ m «e.al treaty were n, contemplation with
Great-Britain, in which the fubjefl of the neutral
>y code would necessarily be involved, and it vn,* with
Great-Britain particularly that we were desirous
-« of obtaining a change in the exifling fyftcm. How.
m «tremely injudicious and unwise then was it to de
a clare, not only in his letter to Ger.ct but to Mr
° Merrit, that "we had no claim whatever on Greatl
•e Britain for a modification of the system, that he
fnculd be at a loft on what principles to demand it,
that Great-Britain had in no instance agreed ta tht
! e modification-of letting the property of the R ®odu
e fo!lew tf >*t of the vefiels, except in the Angle one
e of (hew
? n ° r T'- 7 !t was to in her treaty
. with Prujfm) and that any relaxation of it depeud
ed altogether on the -will of other nau ans , aud that
7 e could n e v " <° obtain it, until they H. U IJ
y be reedy t» concur."
II And to make the matter more desperate, these
e letters were soon after printed and published to the
* world, and thus th« Biuilli government were, by
'• our secretary of state, furnifhed with arganKhits
' against us, when Mr. Jay (who has been repro
bated'by the friends »f Jefferfon for his failnre ia
Y this refpeft) attempted to obtain a relaxation in
1 the system. However anxious Mr. Jefferfon might
> have been, at that moment, to display his zeal for
the government, and bis separation from Genet,
the fubjedt matter of the correfpondcnce did by no
- means require the full avowal of the right on the
' part of Gicat-Britain : it would have been fuffi
r cicnt to have stated, that negociations with that
e country were then on foot, in which this matter x f
f would be attempted to be fettled advantageously
for France as wel| aa ourldves; or even if it had
been necessary, then the correfpondcnce, as far aa
it relatpH m iLi — i to
l /, published—Whereas his very lengthy and labored
1 argument to cllablifh the right of Great-Britain,
r under the law of nations, has not only prevented
1 our obtaining a favorite alteration, but has even
thereby laid the found* -- i for those very measures,
which are now direSed to hit aggrandizement.
' ■ PHOCION.
-f- Thus the fame party, with the fame liberality
and candor, complained loudly of that part of the 7th
[ aiticle, which allowed compensation by the United
States for property tiken by French privateers in cer
tain cases, altho' it did no more than what Mr. Jeffer
fon himfelf had exprtf ily promised in a letter ta Mr.
Hammond.
Erratum—in Phocion, No. XVII, second par?-
graph, line 12, for discounts read difemtents, so a»
to read thus : "if there is a danger of the public
payments not being punctual, I submit whether it
would slot be better that the difeontents which would -
then arise should be transferred fioin a court of
whsfc good will we have so much ne?d to the brea.ls
of private individuals.''
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UN ITED ir«r£S.
To the Ele&ou of the President of the United
• Stares.
Refpeflable fellow-citizens,
WHATEVER may be the relult of your ap
proaching deliberations, the interetts of this coun
try cannot fail to have been promoted by many ot
the difcuflions to which this great occasion will have
given rife. The numetous addresses to the peopiS
at large, to the state legiflaturee, and to yourfelvts,
will often bring truth and reason into the public
view, or expose to detefliort the improper measures
which piffion or unworthineis have induced tbs
parties to adopt. .
It is plain that those, who have necessarily reply
m a very late Lour have far the hardc.l talk, thoughtruth were admitted to bean their fide. Nothing,
which can be prepared, for example, to manifeft aa
the errors of " Phocion," can poflibly reach in time
the distant Electors.
The opinions of Mr. Adams in favor of an he.
reditaiy President and of an hereditary senate, and
his desire tp fee them introduced among us, are
the great objeSions to him, which prevail copclu
fively with all tlfc friends of the Federal Conftitu
t tiou, who are opposed to hii election. Hence we
fee, that though Mr. Pinc'ney is underflood to be
fit up by the fame persons, no objections whatever
have been made to him. This gentleman gives rife
to no alarms even among the fiier.ds of »ther can 1
didate., because he is um'veifally admitted to be a
friend to reprefentat'vse or eleSive government. Nay, (
even the papers, charaftsWzed as Anti federal and I
Jicobin, hive not founded any alarm concerning j -
the Republican Pinckney.
The friends and enemies of the Federal Conftitu- -
* lion have been accustomed to believe, that Gene
ral Washington is j lover $f rtprefentative gt
vsrnment. It has been a cause of a devout tbank
fulnefs to Providence in the minds of serious and
anxiwus men, that this friend to Republics was in t j
the chair, when the combined powers afTociated to
reltore Monarchy in France, and particularly in "
1793, when the of Great.Britain iflued <<
within the fame week (Oil. 31, and Nov. 6, '93)
a publlb proclamation tofuppufs Republican govern- n;
ment in France, and feeret orders holfile to the re- |j
fjurccs and naval organ of our unoffending Republic.
Here we might offer exculpa-ory conecrn.
log the difpufitions, which of eirciim
(tances like these naturally excite in the bo-
fom of secretary Jeffcifon, perhaps we mig*t fully Ni
establish his merit on the occafioH ; but is only V
Beccflnry to our present argument to sbferve, that A
the friends of our Republican Conttitution felt E
great comfort, at a moment so awfully eventful, in B
the knowledge, that Our chief magistrate was an C
indisputable enemy to every modification of hcredi C;
taty domination. If t'he fneads of representative Pt
I y government cbcrifted with thankfulnefs this cum- H
fortable ttuth, what will they now think and feci, W
if they behold the high presidential authority in El
the hands of one, who has no faith, no cbnfideuce D
# ill reprefentativc or eledive government, who be- W
lieves, with the jealous enemies of our Conftitu- , St
tion abroad, that a Monarchical Constitution it not
only better than our Federal Conllitutian, but that
■a mixed Monarchy is >• \hc befl of all pojfiblt go- cit
, vernmems." Ask yourselves. refpedable but highTT tai
ly lcfponhble trustees of a deserving nation's peace, ott
befoie it shall be too late, can the people of Aipe. E:
nca be hoped to confide in such a conjliiuted au- tlx
thority > o( -
1 lie letters of tl Phocion" have been principally
confined to the rejection of Mr. Jcfferfon. He
fays enough, it is true, to covcr himfelf from the
charge of negleaing Mr. Adams. Yet he certain
ly haj not taken up and explained any of the pas.
sages, in faror of hereditary government, which a
wife and zc-alous advocate would (if tic could) have
openly seized and refuted. This is a cafe in which
the very horns of the adverfaiy, if w e may ufethe
expression, should have been taken hold of with in
trepidi'tjr. " Pijflcion," of referviag alumft
entirely for Mi. Jefferfon a pen, whieh alas'he hat
unconfdoufly fteeptd in the acidulated gall offelf
deceivinjrpr <ji 1 d ice, should have explained the many
pTlages like the following, which arc to be found ,
in Mr. Adams's three volumes.
In treating of the Laaedcmonian 'government,
which was hereditary in the lings and fen atur3, in
the two hundred ind fifty-fifth pai je of the firlf
volume, Mr. Adams writes the following words
" The Lacedemonian Repnblic may then, with Si
great propriety, be willed Monarchical, and had O
the three essential parts of the best possible govern
| _ ment; it was a mixture of Monarchy, Atillocracy
and Democracy." This pi-foge is unequivocal and n
goes to the whole length of the principles in quef. G °*
tion. Mr. Adams does not merely fay, that this
mixed monarchy it not bad— not merely, that it is
good—not merely that it is better than the exist- ,
ingConftitution ef MalTachufetts or New-York—
not merely that it is better than such a Conftitu- ! llc ' r
- tion, as this Federal Cooftitution, under which a I
beneficent creator has pla.-ed us, a fecor.d chosen bU ' '
le «— b »t Mr. Adams, without any the least ( ,
- 'S" r" fays, f
JV s'*5'* Ljcr ™°»«» mixture ,of Monarchy—
Arytocracy and Democracy, had " the three er take '
fenttal parts of } he befl goJnm f*
feme a declaration of monarchical and ariftocrati- f T
cal faith more unequivocal and explicit, all the """ I
» T° rd " of . our nay, all the ideas of the
human mind would be vainly applied. " Hi
A FEDERALIST. , peti "
9 _ have
sale, freight of charter, fed in
the, brig ed as
LijJv, ferleß .'
T c „ ' J eminei
v " Stopmk Smith. Matter
A X[;r W n.ne ty . thre . to ' ni burthen, com
rxpenS i£ r 'urL T Y *1*"* sea withouf an r 6°"
or to ' * F !'' y boa, <I'at1 ' at Clifford'? wharf But
» 0v . 9 JOSEPH ANTHONY & CO. "»>le
§6 throug
~~~ "— cumtta
Patent Shot. ISjaJ
at,*the Proprietor, tike u ! trt ° bren soU they h:
Public that thty may i u future iaformi « l g the flexion
t the fame prices as cummon W ' th that a «" "'"g
Corfriponpents to apply to [ I ° rderin ? thei r May tl
tond ""- Nov 9 KtES - 7 & Co. Pro ; idc
Wfm4W bly fuft
„ ~ ' —- lie delib
patent AND other It gi,
i lANO FoRTFS « tyhcld
L "-" :
w. POYNTj LL'i Id> foJ d Oil liberal terms, at tflan 'cav
&0t *' h °- 70 Chcfcucfceet. whfch a!
m » Jt j tribes. .
laniftfft all n
ch iu time PHILADELPHIA,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER a. 1706.
UJ3 s r Ttt
fZZ : ; jg--•
Conftitu 4> per Cent. - - . . I4 '^
Hencewe f per ?s" t " iV4
, , Deferred Six per Cent. ... . ttr
ood to be 3ANK Uni & s .... ,
whatever Pvnnfylvar.ia, .
gives rife North \m=rica, - - - - 45 to 46 I
ther can 'nfurancc Comp. North-America, 13 i-j
! to be a > —Pennsylvania, p»r.
Nay, n r , COUR J °F EXCHANGE. j
eral and I on » at 3° Gays, per £.100 fterl. par. }
j " at 60 days, par to 1621-2 c
ncefntng j at 90 clays, 161 a 163 1-2
Amtlardim, 60 days, per guilder, 40 fc
Conftitu- 90 days, , 2
Gn* a
FN E-
■< C
tttve gi- eoMMHN ICAtION.
t thank- yj/j,. Funno, n
JUS The following sentiment has been broached in g
was in the Aurora : j
.iatcj to << When parties run high, the goad cause must tl
.y "be supported with enthusiasm and abfotute vio- tc
1 issued u l enct f' 7 ([
93) By. some late ©f an ele£lionecring m
govern- nttftire it would seem that this sentiment is not on"- er
the re- ly cherished, but reduced to practice. pi
Mc - Vive la Liberie I L
onecrn-
ciicHm- Return of Che/ler County EleSlon. fh
the bo- Whelen 530 vf Kean 122 f„
fct fully, Miles vforgan 120 th
is only Wynkoop 530 Hanna 121 „i
r e, that Ari.dt Hartzell Hr
ion felt Eckhart 530 Hcilfer ' 11 c hr
itful, in Bull 535 Boyd ' 116 fta
was an Coleman Whitehill ~9 „
hcredi Carf. )n 534 M'Clay 116 fei
'iitative PoftlethwSite 531 Brown lIQ f,.
scorn- Hay 532 Smitb ~r '
id feci, Wilson 535 Pip;r t *f
inty in Elliot 534 Irwin lie ! fa,
fidence Dotiglafa 5-34 Smilie / 12 0 f a f
ho be- Woods 535 Edgar ,, 9 Z
anftitu- , Stuksljr 5 3 0j Muhlenberg 117 Lr
) i* net
ut that A letter from Charleston te a merchant in this n| e
lie go- city, mentions, that the ftu'p South-Carolina, Cap
it highT taiu Carman ; brig , Brewfter ; ftb'r Harri- iac
peace, ott, Switrer ; Lovely Lass, Gnbbing ; and the g( U
Ame- Eagle, all of and fiom Philadelphra, were detained tha
td au- there for nine days by head winds, and no profped to r
©f a change. , ,
~ 6 * orh
r-S — •»"
>m the F * r ° AZETTI or tsi Umrtlt Statis. r
. are
ertain- Tf DElla C RUSCA. this
t pat- .
liich a "genius of the god ef day"
) have E ' cz P«d the (welling surges roar, c
which Receive a grateful tribute lay, OWC
( j ie That hails thee welcome to our lhorc. que
,h j n ln Britain's isle, subdued by love, P of
l h >' muse in moving verse 'hat
, O,* l'*"f • i rvrry groviT' con
(/el/- tJUg " Mat ' ldi " 10 rehearse. bah.'
manr Rrf«me once more thy " golden q^illV— Ith
I Jo nobler theme demands thy song. qua;
found , Quickly our hero's virtues tell '; q
1 o Wafhingron thy strains tdaae,
■n,=*nf tr 1 . b oonli
. ' % If aught can more illume his ftmc, fjru f.
V,? hic-l, fu»rs above the eagle's wing,, „ Lr
hrfi Or nations more admire his name,
'ds— It is that Delia Crufca sings.
with Sing the gre« chief, who to hi E fields withdraw*-
had Oh, sing whilst worlds Jhall hften with applause ' ,
;; r ; Sb
1 and ' btinj
quef- G v er "° r jAY ' S Speeth t0 the Lcffiflature of New '
this 'f C °P eßl "fr the Srlßon on the firft inft. thc !
jt . 8 Gentlemen of the Senate and Jffemlly, lieve
rxift- r " " co "'""lered how greatly the happiness in R <3
k _ C¥ «ry nation dependi on the wisdom with which whicl
liui- ! V f r ' nmCnt " aciminil, e r ed, the occasion which tic " la
h a has called you together at this early s ea s o n, c.mot u "'°'
lofen ' re g» rd,; d as uuufually important. Tf
least .- ' : T V r 'l r ' xH fo . r the ele<aiu » of a Ptefident
sure! nrp f Sta, «.'a.approaching • and the m.a
---iy-f. , J P ardtor y 'o it I" this slate, are now to be mann
r ff C "' . " situation of otir national k,cen
l a fetent f ' fr f ° f or <>«>-
rati- -~ * 0 Plenty or misfortune, this cbird ,h<J
the , r at ' rase to demtl >d the utmoit care and cir- b «
the a fitiv
Hitherto the embarrafsmer.ts arising f rom com- for bea
- Ce"n"f'h ' hC i,lflufnr " "tcident ,0 them, P^pri
— d'd bv th tn •f X|)ericn,lle F have b«en exclu
ded by the■ u-Mform and universal confidence repo- a "d th
fed m that illuftiious patriot, who, being djflingu*. pcnf.t
ed the father and ornament of his count,yf b7a It o
nes o great ana disinterested lei vices, was also cur nfta
eminently qualified by an uncomm«n assemblage of di(lal »
,m - ttatJon' " t# ' soT ,hat '®po rt »Ht and exalted fcmc 1
ilal >©n. . 1
any m
arf. . , f * tr aordinary man, having with admi lativ e 1
) through various viciditudes and unpropition# cir nn "b!e
_ .»«,**., „ Udfjtampled d,„J, „1 3-;:;. Pl«i,p<
ty, ts now about to ret,re. Mankind has rot been
e.« ofTnft t0 7 ' he mil,tar y anti < '"'1 P w S
;cn fh'l 1 ana ' ,on . I feweived, used, and resigned, a s l„ ,b
'k 1 fl'ft" 'I 1 ,hls g!""'ous instance. E ie ry re of the I
he n<-ftion and sentiment cowneded with ; r r t
tl- ting- fubieiS, will r ■ interef- sing the
:ir M»y th c samp K 1 V 08 1" n, tnds. will rife
: »S=aipaSS B
It gives me pleasure ,0 inform you that, at a tre, l™™*'
"" K of S
r, b«w«„ Hi, j,'," b "° more ef,
n themselves the Sevrn N - " f' 8 ,res 0 ca " which re
" queltionable, yet it »■« ' j / wa * not un- these am
: f»~i *; h <r ,h '
u'.SSs
1 '-t., MBlwerlB K our ttrcngth and lhe .J ™
comparative weafc.ieffr, tv?ry appearance of t iking
advantage of#bat weakness, was to be avoided.
■The clains of the M'>hawks to certain other
9, 1796. lands, ftiil remain to be adjusted ; but fhere is rea
son to expect that these may also be amicably set
• '' ! and that the period is not far diftant_, when
\~lfi to 4d. 'I"-* Indians 011 eur borderi, having- convincing proofs
ic/j of our justice and moderation, will by good offices
■4A and a friendly intercwurfe be led to rely on our be- '
nevoicnce and prot and to view our profpe- '
rity as conne&ed with tfieir own. 1
I ful.rrnt to your conlideration, whether the pay- '
(6 meats to be annually made to the differem tribes
who are cfttitled'o them by contrails wi'h rhe
state, should not be so ordered, as that they may be
punSutillj paid, in a uniform manner, and at a fixed
6a i-a expence.
" 4 UiEcuUits were experienced in executing the
40 benevolent intentions of the Legifliture refpe£Hng
a Lazcretto in the vicinity of this city. Ground
conveniently fit Hated could not be purchased ; and
the piac'.. g it 011 Governor's li?,md, where it could
not have b«en cretted at a proper distance from the
iched in wai liable to strong objedtions. These
difficulties have been removed by the liberaliiy of
use roufl the Corporation of the city. They have grarui
'lute ViO- toiifly conveyed Bedlow's' Iflar d to the (late, for
this, and such other public uses as the Legislature
aneering may from time to time direfl. Certain building-,
not ou- ereded there by the French Republic, have been
purchased, and prepared to feive the purpose of a
erte ! Lazaretto for the present—-but as additions and al
tera! 10ns will be neceffjry ; and as precautions
r L '• Cn '° P r<ven l that idand from being
2 ! further dimtriilhed fey encroachments of the water,
120 the appropriation of s ome money so, these objedt
121 will be requifitt.
«is The mejfures preferred by law to prevent the
US bringing and spreading of infedious difrafes in this
116 date, have been uken, and faithfullv exe.-uted It 1
"I j » however to be lanterned, that pales of the Ilk - ;
16 fever with that whi.h in the M year proved so
119 fatal to this city, have occurred ; and there is at ,
If! prefer v.v y little reafun to doubt Wiethe- th.t dif- )
115 | rale may be generated here. The fubjed of nui- 1
5 fances therefore, having become impouant to the I
20 fafety as well asto the comfon of our fellow citizens, I
119 well deserves the notice and interpefition of the' f
*i 7 Legislature.
!n th» I 1 P "f Carious thc P ea « and security of that peo- )
in this pie w (lo are not prcpared (0 drfend tkcmfe]vts }
Ham "Tu t 0 ° LferVe th3t thl ' s ftatc f '« one port, S
id the a ' lm^orta,lt a ' "fsto Ihe whole state, its I
-rained tc The V
.tamed that were bcK , ln are u „ ftmfiled . and {[ 7
.olpett tome to ment confutation, whether this port can K
otherwtfe be secured than by fldlfully fortifying the
psffage at the Narrows. It cannct be too frequent- E
y reeplle&ed, that seasons of pc'ace and prosperity v
are the raoli favourable for meaftfres and works of T
tniß kind. W
Con fide ring the funds which the state poffeflVs • £
the appropriations which have been and will be
made for various public uses, the aocoums confe- T
qucnt to such appropriations, and the evident utility
of io atranging «nd our fifcal affairs, 1, In
that the funds may be advantsgeoufly managed, ac- 0
con ts with mdtvidusls regularly fcitied, and thc ?*'
/ m "' d ue 'o and fcom them punfiaally paid
1 think it my duty to whether more ade
quate provihou for should hot be made. I '
Although our tax-.s have for years past been in- Bl
eonliderable, and although their is at prefer no
prufpsit of our being prcfTed b y/ any necessity to E
eflcreafe them, ye, ic i, to be pr.fumed fom. he vi- £
ciibtudes which attend human affairs, that at some Tl
uture period more ample contiibuiions may be- If,
come indispensable ; would it not therefore be pru- Tl
tA. and tranquil season, to adopt artd Tl
,u)cs a "d regulations for taxation, as V
being perfectly confifteiit with the -principles of iuf- ci"
sj ew . t.ce and rational liberty, and gradually acquiring 7h
ft- . c aa ' T . a "'ages of experience and usage, may re- JSt
heve this delicate fubjeft from many of the perplex- .No
n'nefs '"gquettions about principles, m,«le and manner. Shi
hich which at all times are difficult, and which are par- ® ul
hich Ocularly embafiaffing in times of anxiety and ;?i- Bel
nrlot tation. 6 Am
The distressed Situation in which the French rt- Ec:
dent fu g e « f r "D St. Doming, arrived here, induced the
mra- provide for them in a very beneficent
obe manner. The luma allotted for their support have
onal « n expended, and the accounts audited and fct
y.°r Ik- b f >ny L ~ft - h# - fe unfor,unat «-P«fon« have left On
«h« , -but it is represented to me, that a num. oust
C ' r " a fituan P e °" s . cht'dren are ftiH here, and i» town,
forbear m" - r a " J «hat I cannot cupied
om ' proorirtr h 7' "\° } 'T T K wi.h fire, t«
7' hr d fir Jt b V,°' ra 33 tl ! e P° or an y particu- rel, l.'o
and r fi " Cl!i P er,,l,a ' 3B " as did. effing, aflr.p
rpo - and they appear to me as having become by the d'f vered
* -f P~.id.~c .he pom Of iheLte
tJ a It often happen, that perfu. s not Qrged by cir. Ir m t
a)fo cumftances equally prcffing.eomeinto ,h«f(l,tr,S VounJ
.of d,ft a „ t parts> d-0 instancet hccomt £ r i ™ y>»;s
tfd f if frems to call for fame re- furvL
mi . Ivcto it has ceased to operate. extri •
i 0" nnrabTe Mr n °K- <0 ,hf bo- <>.:i„r S
Plen.Dote t' g l appointed Minitter recover
:n " U Y ! " n of G,rat and By t
nitrd P Sr; I F f' h ' S fc3t thc feDa,e of lhe U- counL
w nited States has become vacant. c ; ded
e S of, l he t t C , eG " r 'i < l fyoUr d^btra "' 0 '" on the affair, I
T the state, and the means of preserving and inciea
; -,f ( - Publlc wclfart . many ititeiefting fubje-as
Is. wjl nfe into view-such as tf.efe among P ]
? d T' n 7 whilh lhc salt i-y Ste
- dered «oft nfctul, and the woods in the neighbour
b- hood of them belt preserved. The facilities and en. S.hr P
b tram ,k„, to , h , J „, c , P°"'» ' A (l„
- the c ;xs; r.iin.r; B „i°;
of t.ifeurg-,
oided. r i- nno,
ain other "lease 10 give a piice in your impartial paper to
ere is rea- ! '' tf J °'' n vin;r exfraft from a poem, annexed to 3
rably set- P -mphlt-t juit piiblifhed, entitled, Tit for Tat, &c.
int_, when a "d y™ vviii obligi
ng proofs e,, E P F YOUR CUSTOMERS,
od offices c 4^'rer dcicnhing 1 the <Jifspp nntincfit and difatfert
>n our be- °\ * n itn fM*led p*tri ' with poiiHrd vrir»ifc pjoct
r profpe- t "^' e w ''h pleasure from the disagreeable theme,
to tffe groves of Mount Vernon, 10 coritemplat#
the pay. l^e v,rtue ' of the Amencan chief in his retiiement.
rnt tribes ' 1 "»■
vi'h rhe IN Veruon's Groves, -whose (hade unites
r may be The joys and cahn delights,
it a fixed T hc Y '- :lor ' s w r cath and civic cro;wn,
Content, Love, Friendship, and Renown ;
.• ,1 Where endlrfir smiles Pofowmac wears,
r ~ The halcyon PEACE her nest preparesi
(peering The Patriot Chief wiio there prefidet,
Ground As down the ftreara of life he glides,
rd ; and She hovers round, and sooths his ears
it could W,th music of the heav'n'y foheres.
: rom the When late (lie heard the diilant cry
These VVar, and spread he- wings to fly,
ri- r 'Twashe who charm'd her fears to reft,
'•> of «nd looth'd her on his parent breast.
grarin- Yes, Peace, 'twashe who kindly strove
ate, for To wed thee to our Eagle's love.
fiflature 1 hen ft til, with all thy baftiful train
lildirigs, Of golden blessings, haunt the plain:
ve been ®' (! loo k hei mulky hair,
fe of a Bid I*sSire, wreath'd in smiles, be there ; —
A t The Mules (port, thy heams among, ,
aria al- j ocunc j pj e , lt y ] JU gb along.
autions \\ hiiefafely, in thy Olive fliade,
i being At fcafe her careless limbs ara Uid;
water, Blest Sa.nt I at thy enlivening word
objects The voice of gladness (hall be heard ;
And, al! our joyeus vales along,
rnt the Hw charming i'wect thy Turtles' song :
in this 'J ar » air.idft his wild career,
J I t Sulpend h.s whirlwind rage to hear,
, ' * And every weary lealffi rejoice
,e 1 ' To echo back thy angel Voice.
>ved so , , .
, ■ __ And l "ou, "immortal Freedom's fire" 1
, r Whom ail 1 cyere, eilecm, admire;
lit dil- With all that Gratitude can give,
f nui- Forever in our brealb lha.t live.
to the I*, like the 1 heba.ii chief, condemn'd'
tizens, For Handing f«rth thy country's' friend,
if the' Kefleft 'tis by the breath of thtife
Who rank amongst thy country's foes ;
. Whose dark cabals and factions cry
P- " Would raise the civil tfmpeft high,
■ * er - Tbat they, amid th'enfanguin'd broil,
port, Secure might fatten on the spoil:
te, its Like famifh'd Vultures on the shore,
ations With joy survey the labouring nar,
apears he wretch on kind that's cast,
rt can And scream ' and amid the blast.
>g the Lives there a mm who, ef thy toil,
juent- Enjoys the corn, the wine, the oil;
perity , WJmle lttpent tongue would (trtik with blamrj
ks of *he vir g>n whiteness of thy name ;
May Heav'n't command the tiger far
cflcs • l - '°" le bltalt ' blafled island bear,
II I ' Whose 'eaflefs spray ne fiiade provide*
ill be For fs heatls and unfed fides,
:0 .." There may he press the dreary mould,
itilitv Within all comfortiefs and cold ;
ft, r,s I" horror si* his haggard eye
I, ac- t!le P a 'e Moon and winter (ky f
t l le And, by the Good a»d Just,
;j In moody madness fink to du2.
ade- The Flatterers' labours I contemn,
nade. lravr the vena! song to them;
u in- But hoaeftly commend I will,
tno And lore the smile of virtue «iH, *
vi„ 111 fey thy n»iae, where'er it goei,
" , Biiltcd figc Ino rival knows ;
>e »i- And that thy fervicn* command
lome The praises of a grateful land,
j be- If, worn with toil, with care opprefs'd,
pru- 1 hou feck'il for solitude and reft,-—
r artd The deep'r.:ng fliade, feqnefter'd cell,
las The 111 1,, the plain, the. musing dell,
fir And rofey blulhof flow'rets sweet,
it ilO TM*" b ' efS | thy ' ift ' '° V,IJ retr «t*
8 Thy gentle ear at least stall there
' re- No rude and thenklefc fcoflings hear:
ilex- No, nor the rill that ripling flows,
, nerj Shall murmur at thy caim repose ;
par-JJ ut "'"> at cl t> may'fl thou recljfie
ijji_ "eneath thy own o'ermantling vine; ,
6 And, as thy years and fame increase,
1 re- ""dow'd with the wing of Peace,
the mm
cent by this day's mail* »
iave - . -
[ C r rs " AR RISBURGH, November,.
left On Thursday nigh, ],«, the ] a and C / Gmmot)} ,
urn- ou, tavern at Stiver fp.ing., 6 miles from thi,
Jl» .own the property of Oliver Pollock, esq. and oc.
inot cupud . v Mr. Bnggs, was entirely confiimed b T
ftih hre, togei ,er with all the furniture, wc»,i„g appa^
tcu- rel, hqtlois, fcc. There were ~P ar forty person»
"g, aflrep ~, s mansion, when the accideu uas difco
d;f- vered wh.ch had such progress, as to rfnder
. even IA. ir efcape.-in,poffible» Eny other way t!, aa
"r. m the different windows: by *h, h mear. 1
om y«ung ma,, aged afcout 18, who %pt J n the upper
en. l(oiy, bruise.l himfelf in such a manne,; a, onlr to
re- furviVc a short time 5 one of IVfr. Bngg'g d,«gh t er.
re- or 10 y?ars, was so much burnt before the could be
er'neated, as only to live about two hours. Many
j°" Wf,e^ ry ,T C . h '' ur W bu! " f> hope.! not past
er ecovci). T helofe is cftimated at above 6oco!
,h . e returns wh,ch have come to hand, in this
J- county, lt appears that Adams's ticket has had a de
cided majonty of votes. \
irt ' 1
J
GAZETTE OF THE VN,T SD HATES marine Ust .
- PHILADELPHIA, November 9.
ARRIVIK Day ,
S.hr R of S , Morrow, North Carol,-„ a ,j
y ! Bjtfey, Barnett, Norfolk 4
y Fanny Baum, N.rth-Carolina ,0
.« Slo ß p Pavonte, Sa/r'e, do °
I Thehrig Adtivn, WTiarns from Philadelphia
arrived at St. Kitt's, Oft. 9, and waste fail for
this port on the 18th
II A ?" n P. fr ° ra New-York, and one from Boston
11 were seen in the Bay Vefterdav.
* ' ' ' t\
3 Boarding and Lodginn:
Gf , NI may be accommoda rd wi'h
" i w":"'i "L «81"?.'. ! n f, K v T e family pliantV -**s»
vjity cf Wafliington. i
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
(OR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE Jg n Mond
FEDERAL CITY. ' houfeo)
jif o-> I Delawa
A magnificent ? *0,000 dol.ats, & / 5 0,0t>0 1 a ciuan
dweliing-h'oufe, 5 cash 30,000, are ) I \Unrl;ii
i ditto 15,000 & calk 15,000 40,000 j jj or f cs
'1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000 J '
1 ditto 10,000 & caih iojooo »0,000 I
1 ditto 5,000 &. cash 5,000 10,000 j »
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000 6-
>t caftprivof I°.° oo CaU-es'
,do. 5,000 each, are ■ 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - JO.OO" Gne s
•»o do. 5 00 " * ' Uye in
C 0 d °- ,U ° ' . * . \oZ°o A qua,
300 do. 5° ' I Indiai
4C °f It ' loZl The,a
ijooo do. 1 dancewi
15,000 do. ro - - W°° I ITown b
— N. B.
16,739 Prizes. J yeir3
Blanks. { ~N T ov.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollar., 400,000 |
N. B. To favour thafe who may take a quantity oi . 7 cast '
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn Coppe
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but onf. : I >
And approved notes, securing payment in either money Sheet
•r prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for Engl.f
any number not less than 30 tickets. . .1 ~
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpe amen thepri- GoW
vate buildings to be ereSed in the City of Wafh.ngton- TaUttt
Two beautiful defiens are already feleftcd [err the entire j
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings-l
it is proposed to ered two centre and four comer buildings, j
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey j
them, when complete, to the fortunate advenmrtrs, in
the manner described in the fchemc for the Hotel Lottery.
A nettdeduflion of fiiwper cent, will be made to defruy j
the necessary expenses of printing, Second the iurplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be creaed within the city of Waflungton. Sgl j .
The Drawing will commence ?s soon as the tickets art I
fold off.—The laoney prizes will be payable in thirty days 1
after it is finifked ; and any prtfei for which fortunate j <
numbers arc not produced within twelve months after the I
drawing isdofed, are to be considered as given towards | ror ra ,(j
the fund for thd University ;it being determined I to/fettle ihe L
the whole business in a year from the elding of the draw- I feffio.
ing, and to take up the bonds given as fecunty. Schu>
The real fecufit.es given for the payment of the Pnzes, Berk,
are held by the President and two Dirtf&ors of the Bank 1 .
of Columbia, and ate valued at more than halt the a
mount of the lottery. , f ,
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of 4
the late Commilßoners aflilled in the management ol the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake tbisardu oust aft: g D
a l'econd time on behalf of the public ; a iufficieiit num teo
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob- ,
lefts mar continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from tJhe different parts of the {
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tlckets
have been sent for sale, the public are affared that tli« g<<>o
drawing will speedily commence, and that the cart alld
caution unavoidably necessary to'infure a fafe difpoiall ol
th« tickets, has rendered the iter: -suspension indilpenlabU.
SAM'JSL BLODQMT-
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
Tames Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Feter ;
if John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells fin.Jhc
Cooper's Ferry. °° , Driswi
Lottery , oi 'p\
FOR raising fixthonftnd fix hundred and sixty-seven Jofep
dollars and fifty cents, by a deducftioti of fifteen per \y am
cent from the prizes, arid not two blanks to a pnrs. viz ,
r Prire of 5000 dollars is dol.ars 5000 J
J 1000 1000 Kea
1 500 i°°
. too *°co Tit
JL 103 aooo above
* 50 49i0 «go:
108 25 ' s°°° arer<
iC oo 10 » 0 ' 000 te " D i
5 Last dfiwn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000
4331 Prizes. 44<4J0
4018 Blanks. " "
A n
/350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45°
By order of the Direflors of the Society for eftabhlh- p
jngUfefulManufadures, the fuperintendants of the Pat- *
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to o'ffer the
foregoing Scheme to the pubKc, and have dire&ed them
to refund the money to th»fe petfons who have purchased
i D the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery. ... ,
The lottery has a&nally cotnmcncefl drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes -5
may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64 '
south Second treet, whs will give information where tick-
«ts may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of. June, 1796.
J. N- CUMMING, 7
"AGOB li. HARDENMRG,' ( Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
dtf eo q» 1
UNFtED states; I 7
PrNNSYLVA-NIA DISTRICT > *'
NOTICE i& hereby given, that puifuant to a writ to me
diiefted, from tl>c Hon. Richard Peterfc, Esq. Jtidqe of w '
ftife Difir>a Court of the United States, in and for the Pcniv
i'ylvaniadiftrift, will be cXpoied to sale, on Thursday the 10th
mft. at 11 A. Ml
1 Boat,
1 Ktdgc Anchor, j
t New MainfaiJ, j
1 Half worn do.
1 Foresail,
3 Jib,
x Elying do.
j "fopfail, ai.d
1 Squirefatl with a bonnet, together with sundry ftahdifcgl
•ru\ running ringing, and rubles.
•J'he iwne having beer ifbdlcd against, and condemned for
the payroept of iaivage, &c.
WILLIAM NICttOLS, Marshal.
Marshal's Office, Bth Nov. 1796. __
Just Imported,
In the fchcouer Lucy, Capt. Prows, from Madeira, -t
and ta he fold by
ELLISTON & JOHN PEROT,
Best London particular Madeira Wrne,
'j frte years old,
In pipes, hogsheads, and quarter calks, fit for im
mediate ufc. —Tlit;y have alio tar lale,
A few bags of Juniper Berries. "
O6loberaß. W&S4W p
" THIS DAT WBLISHEir, f
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chtfnut-ftreet,
(Price 12 1-2 Cents)
The President's Address
Tu the People of the United States,
Announcing liis intention of retiring from public life
v at the expiration of the prefcut constitutional tcrfii of
pxfidency.
40, d
. To be Sold w
BT PUBLIC VENDUE,
On Monday, the fourteenth day of November, at the A
'{ house of the late Widow Kille, on the banks of the
Delaware, near Racoon lower bridge.
j A quantity ofHoufehold and Kitchen furniture.
I -Working oxen. A Cale
Horses, A com
J Milch cows. and Jud:c
Fat cattle. A Lift
Hogs. Poft-O
J Sheep. clofmg th
Calves. y The V"
Two light riding waggOnt, witii harness. Tin^s
One Sleigh. Courts.
1 Rye in the; ground, and in thebuihc.. A tahli
A quantity of hay. . A lift c
Indian corn, and all kinds of farming of . :n a» •
The sale to begin at ten o'clock on said ,4av- -V ' f 4tes hit.-
1 dance will be given, and the conditions of lale mads. ncv t ,
known by RfCHARD TITTERMAR\ . tUfefi-l
N. B. Said farm to he let on a lease tor one or more p encej
I years A regi
| T\ov. t. -■—^— Peuhfylv
i For Sale. And^
oil 7 cafescoarfehats . tK >"- 1:1
vn I Copper bottoms and Iheets graved t;
Shot, all lizes, patent and comflion handfptni
ay I Sheet and barr lead
for I English Ihoes and boots f cases
Tin plates
ri- 1 Gold watches
j TaUitton ale in calks.
ire Apply to By JO I
,gc,.| St Til on Walker, voium
■gs, j 124, So. Fourth Street. dollar!
No%B. iliL.
r ' D By Authority.
fy | ; By tl
ray I _ 1 ,
,lu3 l Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
1121 I J
| Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN* No. 64,
a y S J South btfondjlreet* tylade
S SCHEME of I LOTTERY,
'rds j far ra i& H g Sixty Thouland Dollars, ag'enblv K> »**«<> But f:
ttlc j ihe Lefiiflaturc of Peonlylvama, patted durmg. lt,e •*' Stam
aw-| feflion, for fiuilding a Stone Bridge over the River m
I Schuylkill, at ihe Boiough of Keadiog, in
zes, Berks. tt Tf a
; ank .PrUeof.ooooM.ars -
:a " ' 3 t efT=o° o d 0 0. -* - "r- Fdlo-,
lto{ 4 do. of *,oo; do. , - ' oo ° I f" Unl
so do. of 1 ,coo do» - - - «,oco these r a
rZ ■JO do. <if 500 do. - • 10.i 0 " j a few c<
80 do. of 200 do. - - - 16,00 c d'elign 1
»eo do. 6f ieo do. - - a®, ooo the fori
v 300 do. of 40 do. - 151 000 theroor
' 1 do. of jCO do to be paid the poflef- J 0Q jo betia
for of the firll drawn 110. 5 5 and mai
r the c do. of g.oco do. to be paid polfeffors > cxecut ; c
:kets of the laa drawn uos-S J periodu
do. of 1 5 do. ! * 141,000 e ji p ra ;
if of ,o,o 5t frizes 300,000 mote vi
"abl<«. 10,046 Blanks
t . 30,000 Tickcti at Ten Dollars 300,000
fton : All Prises (hall be paid fifteen days after the drawing 13 Cor)
Veils finifhed, upon the demand of a polleflor ot a fortunate Mils V
ticket, fabjeft to a dedu£ion ot twenty per cent. The W«ek
Drawing will commence as soon as the Ticket* arc difpokd mcn?
of, or perhaps fobner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William IV-ilmM, l>y Po
fevep Jo/rph Hiejler, James Diemcr, Tbotn.u Bundat, plates.
1 P er 'jamct May, John Otto, John Kcim, Daniel Craetf, Psalm
Sebqftian Miller, Commissioners.
iooo Reading, May the gth, 1796. J^ai
'OCO Tickets in the Canal Lottery. No. i, to be had at the
,000 above olfice, where the carlitft inlormation of the draw- ley 01
, gSO ing of the Washington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery s, Collei
1000 are received, and check books for examination and regif- miltr;
10,000 tering are kept. }
Jcoo oaober 7. aawtf
4 - 450 FOR SALE, Chin.
A f«;w of choice RUM, na^ T 5
A number of barrels of BEEF, and PORK,
And a few kejrs of LARD, of a superior quality.
e Pat" v Enquire at No. 71, north Water-street.
er the November 8, 1796 Itnpo
them t- oi 'J
rchafed For Sale,
tickets /Jy Jehtt Ss* Co*
nd will 15 hh'ds. Well-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof, A 1
5 Barrels best Indigo, and, Sheet
w t A few thousand bufhcls'ol Turk's lfland fait.
No - 64 d.
re tick- ° a - 17 ' 7"
Wm. Holdeßnesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET, A
nagers. Has received by the latt arrivals,
A Well Selected Assotimint of
—— Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods, dr^
j" r "Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, »n the very rcJ {
he renrv terci, ;
the 10th Among]? which are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
.patterns
Ditto Far nit ure ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Bock, and Jaconet Muslins At
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft Quality
„ Silk and Cotton Hosiery 1
y Itar.iJ.ng Umbrellas of the firft quality, assorted ■
, f lrifh Linens, very fine, and Table Linent
cm e or Marfeillcs and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets afforted—Sc. &c.
16. d
To be Sold,
Madeira, j me Q f a smart, active Negro Lad,
f)er Who has Eleven years to firrve.
' Enquire at No. 58, South Trent street.
WlP.e, Oflober iS. §
it for im-
To be Let,
A large cellar, in Walnut-street just above Fourth-Street, that
ICS. fiooied with two inch plank, and will hold upwards of ioo
pipes of w:ne.
w&S4\fr Alio, a Stable and Coach-house, that will hold four horj
fesand twa carriages; and fcveral store» in Fourth Street —
t-ftreet, Apply to
George Meade.
DRESS Who has for sale,
. 25 boxes of Call He soap
' Red Lisbon Wine »
public life A few pipes of bill of exchange wiftt 1
nal tcr&i ol A few barrels ol Irifli mess beef
And a few barrek of Ibip bread.
Nov. 4. •*. St.5 t.
THIS BAT IS PtHil'fouED,
Bv Benjamin Daviss,
A"o. 68, Have so
The American Repository of uieiul
information, for 1797* . Ironm
Cot.'7.tlUlKG>
A Calendar for the .year
A roim.lcte K?glller of the Executive, Legislative, And 3 q
and Judiciary Officers of the General Gnvernmeut,
A Lift of die Military Forces 01 the United States.
Port-Office Eftab!i(hir.ent—timei of receiving and A Imall
clofrng the Mails at Philadelphia. Ofiob,
The poll roads and towns, and tlitfr diltances
Times of holding the Supreme, Circuit and Ui.tndt
Courts. . , 1 ,
A table ps "Import duties, alphabetical!/ arranged. former!)
A lift of the cuttom-houfe officers and their tees. year I7<
Rules for reducing the currencies of the ieveral c ), a fed I
fiates into one another, and all of them into the mo- pounds I
c nev of the United States. re l u = fte
THefiii tables of the value of pounds, (hillings and the v-ity
c pence, in dollars and cents. f "
A retrii'ter of "the officers of the civil 3 <Jvernment of Cot, to.
y\ .. y • iliyiirOj
- Pemifyivania. . f '.n-
A gardi.ief's calendar for Pennsylvania.
And a great variety of other articles of ufeful informa- - - t ,'
tion. KmMlifhed with twelve elegant vignettes, an en- pay «vt
graved title-page and frontispiece,—making together, a tn E
handfpme, as well as very ufeful, little pocket companion, go the <
oaoberao. _ _ tcy w'
Celebrated Nezv Work. hi. if th
some th
This Day 'is PublHhcd,
By JOHN ORMKOD, No. -1, in Chefnut Street, (four coan)tf)
Tolumes in two, "neatly bound and lettered, price 2 v-c
---dollars an-i 50 cents,) q ox t0
THE LOOKER-ON,
A PERIODIC AJ. PAPF.R. tniiing
By theßiv. SIMON OLIVE-BRANCH, A. M. ? r t .
Ore teres modicO Palhnfa radtre Mores
Bd&at, tt ingenm dtfgere luio* V
AUU. PER 3. '
My buErtefs in this State ,
Made rfte a Looker-on here in Vieir.a ; 'I'feil;
Where J have seen corruption boil and Bubble,
"fill it o 3 er inn the flew ; laws for »11 Taults ;
of But faults so counteflfete'd, that the llrcng lUtUteS » w
i 4" Stand like the forfeits in a barber's fiiop, arc 6a.
VC f As much in mSck as mark. Wedns
, r ° s Mcofure for Measure. .: n 6'rde
>co "It appctus from the dedication, that the editor of this an iAi
,00 publication, is the 11 ev. William Roberts,'A. M. F. R. S. i 4r> j c
jco Fellow of Corpus Chrifli College, Oxford; and from the l 0 >he
joo ' lajl Humbcr, that the labor, and coafequtrutly the merit of ,s ol - a r
joo theft pipers, have rested with the editor, excepting otily K fid in
;oc j a f evv contributions pcrticalarly mentioned. Ihe editor •> j, oun d
joo S dfclign ha« bers, as he'himfelf reprd'entfl itj Mto fubllitute Bai'toc
500 ! the forfalten topics of morality, l,ife, nature, and taste, ill vcr y c
50C the room of (hallow politus and news-paper philosophy, and t
coo to betray rtifxi, under tfi ' mask of airinlcment. into serious
and manly thoughts. This ctelign was laudable, and tht
00 execution was meritorious. As literary productions, tinie
periodical papers arc entitled to dillin&ioii; but their high- -
coc eft praifc is, that they are throughout calculated to pro- /f.
rer mote virtue and good manners." sre re
Analytical Review. 14th it
>000 'Lately Publijhed. by J. Ormrod,
gis Condorcet on the progress of the fiuiman mind. t/B , fciig, c
nate Miss Williams' Letters from France, 4/8; Visit tor a
The Week,' j/7 1-2 ; Brown on the r.stural equality of
°f<d men , A J% ; Life of God in the Soul of Man, 3/9 ;
iveo. Aikih's Letters to his Son. yf\ I-i ; Homer s Iliad
nan, i,y Pope, 7/6; I layby's Triumphs of Temper, with
das, plates, {ft; M*fr«-erron tlirTyp<.j, i/y i-x, ScUcV -»'»
Psalms and Hymns for \outh, 1/4 i-a; Burkes Cc- J—. —
lebrated Letter to the Duke of Bedford, i/so i-i. \
Wharton's Atifwer to Prieflly, 1/10 X-Z ; Watson s
Anfwffr to Paine, a/9 1-2 ; Watson's Answer to Gib
. the bon: 1/10 i-i i Cullen's PraiSice, 2 vols, 30/; Bay- And
taw- ley on the Dock Fever of New-York, 7/6 ; Webftei s .
ery's Colleaion on the Yellow Fever, 7/6 Cbaptal's Che- r
regif- miftry, 3vels.ini, 22/6; President's Address, nd;
. Poem 011 do. 1-2; Britifti, Algerine and Spani9i
wtf Treaties, ratified, 2/4 1-st; Travels of Cyrus, French Beid
j and English, % vols. 15/; Win erbotham's History of
I China, a vols. 15/; \\ interbothamS History of Chi-
JM, naj 2 vols, 22_/s—&c. &c. • A
I N»v. 3. eoot
ality Iri-fh Linens, See.
I Imported per the Jbips Glafgoau, from Dublin, Liber
ty, from Cork, and brig Mentor, from Belfajt,
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In whole and half boxes, a)
Assorted from lid. to 4s. sterling—Also 5-4 wide
j Sheetings, and low priced yarn ihd w'orftcd Hose.
On I/uad,
——— 7-g Widt Lawns.
c I ibiapersand TaMe-CHothi A
* > j A i'*w boxes Tickens and Checks
I A few bajss Flannels J
I Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, No«. I and 6 Co[
25 Boxes ■) C 6 t>y 8, of
, 10 Ditto }■ Window Glass, «j 7by 9, ted
and j 5 Ditto J C 8 by 1°- or( j
I The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
I drawback, and rvi)l be disposed of by the package on
ie very reasonable terms. _ gj,
James, Clibborn & Englim, tor
No. 6, N. qae
ncw j jojh nio. 19th, | aD
I . —— FC
1 Just Landing, • on
j At South Jtreet'tbharf, from on hoard the flip Sedg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Pelerjlurg,
The following Goods :
I Ruflia Sail Duck, firft quality. hf
Do. - Sheeting do. q
| Do. Diaper. OI
j D«. Hockaback. tbl
1 IDo. Omfli. wi
d i Do. Mou'd Candles, 4, j and 6, to the lb. of the (r
J English sue.
I Do. White Candle Tallow. b
_ ,1 Do- White Soap in small bones. ti
) Lad, j jj 0 . Cordage of fine yam. v
| Ravens Duck. <•
J lfinglaft, jft and |snd fort. f
J j Horse Hair uncurled.
1 Ruflia Bar iron. J
1 Do. Hoop Jron. . '
.ha, I Co. Nail Rods. 1
itreet, tn2l 1 , , _ , <
rdsofioo 10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Peterfourg Clean Htmp.
four hor; For Sale by
street— Philips, CramQjid, &
, Oflober ti. §
uide. — 1 —
Washington Lottery.
The 34th and 35th days" drawing of the Washington
Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office No. 234, Mar
ket-ttreet, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where ticket* in the other
lotteries may be procured.
dijt. November J, 1796. d
John Grekn & Co.
Have for Sale, on low terms, for Caih *r the ufu.il
credit,
A General Afforlmct of
• Ironmongery, Cutlery, Brass and Ja
panned Wares,
And /> quantity of Ground White Lead, and Spauifa
Brown in Oil -nd Powdtr.
LIKKWiSK,
A small invoice of Hats, of different qualities
October z6.
The Creditors of Scott and M\MicUid,
formerly merchants of this city, and who fiiled '» <h«
year 176?, or 1764, (and from whom theiubfer. ,ct.par
chafed bills of exchange to amount of fcvtral hundred
■ rounds sterling, which have hm' of him ever fiiice,
requested, eveki man or tukm that is living, t»meet*
1 the City-Tavern on Twttfy, fie 15 th of Novem >•* nett,
at 6 o'clock in the evening, xn order to oblige U.ar.e*
: Coi, formerly of this city, now of New-Jersey, and John
Bayard, formerl) of said city, ami Ipeaker of the Houltf
of AlTambly of said Sails, now ol lir„nfwick. New-juicy,
. affiraees offaid Scott & WMiehad, to come iorwara aad
. pay°over the monies-they hive h\d in their hands be.ong
n tntr to the creditors these 31 or 33 years. Some years a
{ro the creditors were called together ; Mr Compear
ed in behalf of himfelf and Mr. Bayard, anJ altered that
they were apprehensive they might b<S brought into trou
ble if they parted with the money (which Upprf icnd :»
10me thoufar.ds,) as his Britannic Majeßy had a debt du;
him for government bills: it was however agreed by the
creditors met, thit the .".fitgnues fhoul l take tl.e PP'»non of
I couni J ; they did so, and it was that they would be Ut*
in dividing the money among tile creditors. I ur-rt Mr.
Cox to bring the bulinafs to a filial close ; lus anjwcr mas,
it-would be but a trifling turn ; my reply was, 11 ever lo
•iriilinjr, 1 woaldhaye my proportion of it. It has how-
lain over. f A
I therefore hope the creditors will now come torwara
and oblige the affigheet to divide whatever they have, and x
ilicv oneht to pay iutcrtft. too.
George Meade.
'Philadelphia, 2d November, 1796. dtljN-
The Creditors of Far. Vleck and Barton,
and William Barton, & Co. (who failed in the year
are sarneftlj requested to m<« at the City-J avci n, on
Wednesday the 9th November, at 6 o'clock in the evening
" in order to oblige the far-wing assignees, Stephen Aufcm,
*« and Andrew Hodge to cloi'e these afTaus. John C hand
s' ler, deceased, who was one of the aflignces, once ' nered
1= to the I'ubfcfibefn_/5 in the pound for his debt, which is
o f for a returned bill of Bcoo guilders, with colts damage*
'y Kfid intereit, and the aflignees have never paid hut j/in the
4 pound, though they advertifeu goods belonging to \> illiam
te Barton & Co. in the year or 17*5. all<i allowed e- '
in very creditor the lil erty of buying to the amount of ioj nt
"1 of their debts.
us George Meade.
f c Philadelphia, Nsvemberld, 1796- dtgN.
o- The Creditors of Clement BidJlc 6c Co,
are rcquefted to meet at the City-Tavern on Monday th»
14th inft.—in order to oblige thetifligntes to a fettlemmt
•f then affairs, Which have lain over thelc twelve ycais:
the fuhferiber's.demand is lor a returned bill o: i,c061. ller
-1 -line, damages -20 per cent, and lutereft.
ra George Meade.
Philadelphia, 3d November, 1796- dtr+N.
The foregiiig advtrtifements are ft goad Jpecimen of
let oiignns'. I could give c: further one it it «ug£ tuc.j.irf-,
Cc- ■ 1
„> s This Day is Publiflved,
ih- Fir the Author, (price X 5 cents)
ay- And Sold by B. DAVIES, No. 68,
jv's , and by th® other BooTcfeUeTs in ine Cuy>
he- TIT FORT AT;
Or, A Purge for a Pill.
nch Beidg an answer to a scurrilous pamphlet, latcjy pttb
/of lifted, entitled, 44 A Vill tor Porcupine.
}hi- To which is added,
A' Poetical Rhapsody on the 1 im^s 5
Describing the Dijajicrs of on bini^rui^
■«* To hear an open Gander ii a curfc,
44 But not to find an answer is a vjorf;."
41 This you get, Booby
her- " Because you wonNl chatter:
, " Since you're for fli»jji>ig d in.
to We'll try who best can fpitter."
5 Paddy Whack'.
November 4.
.vide
""" \ ' ' ' '*■ - .
Loft Last Evening,
At Riclteus's Amphitheatr«>, (supposed tj be taken by
frrme tllWll om tif a i;TtrT.i;m*a pock*tj
A red Morocco-Leather POCKE 1-D-OOK7
Containing about lßj dollars in bank notes; three n«te»-
of hand ofßols and bimfon, No. 304, 305 artd 306, ai
ted 12th 1 aft August, payable 60 dafs after date, to the
. order of Paul Siemen, together for j 150 doiler*; anordur
5 of Mrs. Ann lWcpherfon, from Paul Siemen, on 1-™"
? c on j;,; Mac Neal, Esq. at Port-au-Princc,for 100 dollars , b<-
fidts several letters and papers of no use hut to the prflpric
1, tor The notes of hand and order are without endorfe
ftreet. meot. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD >s oflered to
anv nerfon who will dilcover and secure the thief, and
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the -bove menti.
oned notes and papers at No. 129. 1
Se J s . Mulberry streets. d _ _____
STOP THE THIEVES I!!
LAST Wednesday tvwung, October the
hsursot 7 and loo'clock, the bed loom of Mr Rit keUs in
O'SUei's hotel was entered, cither bv incans of filfe keys,
.or at the window, by some villain or villains, wht» umft have
' been acqusinied wi h the fuuiiioo of the houft (ss the door
, . was found locked after they had committed the theft) who
t " c took away from amongst leveral truuks, ONE which con
tained a valuable part ot Mr. R.ckett's property, but of wnxk
he is not yet abie to afccrtaui the contents particularly.
ter brii.ging the said trunk away, and emptying it o. up
wards of a thousand dollars in caih and bank ngtes, <hc vl1 "
laios left it behind the circus, during the time that the per
formances of tlic evening were going lorward- J
It is carncftly requclted, that all tavern-keepers o»ithe g
roads, and the ferry houses, as well as all civil officers, y
be w«tchft4 in lecuiing suspicious pdrfons, who mjy hav
reduadanee ot Cdth, which their appearance wuuli by
means bespeak them to be poflttfed of.
One Hundred Dollars Reward
Will be given los fccuring the thief or thieves, Mid a ur
k G®, ther reward for fecuf ing thein with the property.
oa »i-
ifhington PRINTED BY JOHN FENKOr
i4,Mar - —No. 119—
the other cHtsiiiiT-srstlT.
4 [Price Kight Do'iars per Acavm.)