E v -
r otto (BnttttJ States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
•JW& 1854.1 THURSDAT EVENING, SEPTEMBER 15, 1796. [FoiW*e.X
. " , ■■- ■ " ■ ■ j ' '— : f' I,* iw- ■' ■ .jiff V"
For Norfolk and Baltimore, T
7*Sloc/p hONPAREIL, f
V JOdN HAMLYN, Master, v
WiH in ;.]1 this week- For freight
i>an J ; apply te the Caot ori board,
yV- N T »fth fide of JESSE and ROBERT,
Wains whA;f, or to the Subscribers,
Whc Ldi'r vyjj larrdiug f- om said Sloop >
A few Hh J of hioh pr'oof Antigua RUM.
The NONP REfLis intended as a constant trader, be
tween R I iov*»rc and Philad&pnia, i luitablc encouragement
is received. • rr
LEFT !>~LIJKGSIVORTH, fcj* SON. £
September 13, 1756.
g-r* FOR LONDON, ~
( ' The capital <hip CERES,
*V - To fail soon:—For freight or paflage
to DAVY, ROBFRTS & Co. or
John Vaughan,
September ro. Frent-ftreet.
FOR SALE, ~
The Schooner L A R K,
One Hundred and twenty tons burthen.
JRzfc A new w®* l wcl ' founll > weJl huilt, &
1 fills extremely fail. For terms apply jt
to the master on board, or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
If the a l !Ave vessel is not fold in a few dayt, she will
i: taV.e freight on very low terms for Boston.
j Sept. o. d j.
" ' " g
For Sale or Charter, B
boston, ®
BURTHEN Ibo« Jtcoc nth. 0? flour—fhe may ba sent
to sea it a small expellee, hef fails and rigging being in C
very good orde.- —apply to
James Campbell, or ] "
Gearge Latimer. f
April 29, L_ I'
FOR SALE, c
j£|k|. The (hip STAR, £
John Vanneman, Master, G
T Y!NO at Waluut-ftfeet wharf, Philadel-
' v y* * 1 phia built, of live oak and cedar, will"
carry about 3:00 b'arrels is two year? old, and in com - c]
plea order to deceive a cargo—For terms apply to
f THOS.&JJHN KETLAND. f
Who have aKo for sale said v.ffels cargo—consisting of— (
Wine and Porter bottles,
Window G'afs, 6 by 8 to j6 by IJ.
Pipes in boxes
Earthen-Ware in cratr*.
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, &c.
*9 tl
At South-street wharf, 1
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th in.l iuguft, I<
by snow Hops-, from Jamaica, and Coop Sally,
from Port-au-Prince,
se<v5 e<v Hhds. CQEF3LE,
70 Hhds.SUGAR.
Also, the cargo of 'be Swedish brig Gufaf Adolphe, "
dipt. Ramfre, from Gibraltar,
Tfi anrl 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
Harle Nuts in sacks
• St. ÜbesSALT, for sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
Jr- 0 * For Charter,
t— The said brig n
Gustaf Adolphe,
Swede, with a Mediterranean pass,
a very fine vessel, about 200 tons bur
then. -Arg- '3." jaweoiw-
For Sale or Charter,
THE FAST-SAILING SHIP
LIGHT-HORSF,
LYING at Meff.J. &R- Wain's wharf, ,
, 1 two hundred and seventy tons burthen, a stout, ftt-ong ,
vessel, and well found. For terms apply to i
Joseph Anthony & -Co. <
Sept. T. \ - t '' tt (
I. ' INDIA SALES.
ON Thursday the iid inft. at 10 ®'clock, A. M. wil| j
be fold at the stoWs of Willing*.and Frnn«s, a large
I quantity of INDIA GOOD§, imported ia the Ganges,
from Bengal, confiding of
3000 pieces Gutrahs
2000 do. Baftas, different kinds
, 3500 do. Coffas, do.
450 do. Humhums.do.
600 do. Patna bdkfi. for women
100 ho. Addaties '
80 do. Table cloth# " (
300 <10. Eaicrties
go do. Panjums
Joo do. Fine Mulmul'.
2CO do. Fine Dacca hdkfs,
100 do. worked Muslins
100 do. Dorcas
160 do. Book Mufltn '
100 do. black and cofored Perfims cr TaffttiM
1200 do. Bandannoes, chocolate, red and bluo
iso do. Chnppa Romals ... 1
40 quarter ca&s of Hyson Tea of goed qnality
40 Souchong
The coarse goods will be fold by the bale, the taffetas
and bandannoes in lots to fcit the purchaser., the teas by
the chest. The «hole is entitled to the drawback,and will
be said for approved notes, on a iibcj al credit..
The goods may be fcen from the ijthinft. to the day
trevious to the sale. .... ,
JOHN CONNELLY, Adlioneer.
September o.
Dissolution of Partner (hip. i
THE Partnerfhio between ROBERT ANDREWS and. j
DAVID MF.RFDITH.under the lirm of ANDREWS
and J4ERBDITH, being t!i(Tolved All per Tons who are
indebted to, or who have claims agaioft the teid house, arc
rcquefled to jpply for lettiement to the fublcriber.
1 ROBERT ANDREWS,
No- So. Whaivet.
5<;pt.6,1796. * d if
~ FOR SALE,
A 'Complete Font of Brevier,
ENtirely new, and yet unopened. The weight of this
■font is about £12 lli. It is from the FoUiidrry of
Wilson & Sons, and will be fold at cost & charges. .
Aifo for.Sale, a pair of Super Royal .Chafes.
Enquire at the Office of the Gaz'ette of the Unitize
Statse, 119 Cljcfnut-ftreet, a j>ug. »9 54W
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alieant and Lis
bon, landing at the fubfetibers wharf—
28 Pipes of Brandy
x 8 Bales of SpaniQi wool
3 do. of Annifced
7000 Bulhels of best Lilbon Salt ,
80 Boxea of Lemoii9
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hogflieads of JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the (hip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Ihrt,
from Kingston.
Sept. 13. d
JUST A RR IV E D, from Lijbon,
And for Sale by the Subscribers,
Lisbon Wine,
In pipes and quarter-calks;
5000 Bulhels Lisbon Salt.
JeJfe & Robert Wain.
Sept. xo. ' dtf
MAI L S,
For ike foUoiving PrJ} Offices, -will be rlofed at
Philadelphia ON Friday afternoon at sun-set : —
Mails from the fame Pofl- Offices ludl arril/e on
■ Friday morning—
Ab'botftown, P. Hanover, P. PITTSBURG, P..
Abingdon, Va. Hagerftown, Md. Rockinghamc. h. v
Bardltown, K. Harrodfburg, K. Sharpfburgh, Md.
Bedford, P. Hancock, Md. Shepherdftown, Va
Bathc.h. Va. fonelboro', Ten. SpringficM, K.
Bourbon, K. Snoxville, Ten. Scevenfburtrh, Va.
Brownsville, P. Lancaster, P. Stwlhurg, Va.
Carlisle, P. Leefburg, Va. Staunton, Va.
I Chamiierfhurg, P. Lexihgtan, K. Sweet Springs, Va.
! Cincinnati,'fl. w. r. Lexington, Va. Taney-Town, Md.
Cumberland, Md. Lsmifville, K. Union, P.'
Danville, K. Marietta, n. w t. Walhington, P,
Downingtown, P. Milkrftowit, P. Walhir.gton; K.
Franktort, K. Marti'lburg, Va. Williamsport, Md.
Fredericktn. Md. Montgomery, cv. Wincheftcr, Va.
Gallijjolis, n. w. t. Moxgantown, Va. Weft Liberty, Va.
Greeniborg, P. Mafhville, K. Wheeling, Va.
Gctiilburg, P. ew-Markct, Va Weodftock, Va.
Green brier c. h. v. Oldtown, Nd. Wythe c. h. Va.
Greeneville, Ten. Peterfbu r 2h, P. York P.
j. The MAIL from Lancaster, at Philadelphia,
_ every Motiday, Wedncfd y and Friday, at 6 P. M. ani
Cloft's at Philadelphia the fame days, at 7 P. M.
The MAIL for Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon, and
Harrilburg, will close at Philidelphia, every Tucfday,
Thursday and Saturday, at 7 P. M.
General Poft-Office, S<tptember 13,1796. d 4c.
"
Washington Lottery.
THE Eighteenth in 4 Ninetsenth Days' Drawing of
the Walhirgton Lottery, No. s, ire re<tWc<! at the c'uce
No. 234, Maritei-ftrect, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. information given where tickets in all tlie.other
;, lotter'ict may be procured.
, September 9, 1796. df
FOR SALE,
„ parti"ular&t»(&S4»
in pipes and hogflieads
' Claret, genuine oW, in cases
Qip, in pipes, from Holland
. Earthen s^' in trite?
BasSet Salt, in hogfheadt
Sho{» Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Ear Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Ruflia, in barrels
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tafpolin canvas,
Tin plates —An invoice Stationary, by
THOMAS & JOHN KETt'ANJD.
'! Mr 5
A very valuable Merchant Mill,
A DISTILLERY and BREWERY, and sundry STONE
QUARRIES to be let.
I will rent my merchant Mill qt {he little Falls of Po
towmac. for any term not less thanfeven, nor more than
eleven years, from the firft day cf September next. The
g mill-houf :is42by 40 feet, three stories high, built with
stone, and has in it three pairs of French Burr Stones, two
overflioti 18 feet '.v«t f and .Evans's machinery
complete, with every other thing proper and neceflary for
■* carrying on the bufmefs with dispatch, and at as little exr
penfe as poflible, all in good order.—From the mill to my
[], landihg on the Potomac river, (wlure craft, of any bur
re then may deliver graiu and take in flour) it is about 40
' 4 yards, and from thenCe by water to Gecrge-Town and
the City of Walhington, about 3 miles, and to Aleian
-1 dria about 11 miles. This situation, aided by a fufficicnt
capital, will command the produce of a very extensive
back country, where large quantities of wheat ami other
grain is annually made, the distance to it being from 8
to 10 miles less than to any raaikct town upan tho navi
gation of the Potowmac. There are on the prcmHes a
Urge stone Coopers'fh jp, a stone granary, and a commo
dious miller's house. At thp landing aforcfaid a bridge
is now building over the Potomac, which is in great for
wardr.efs and probably will be finilhed the ensuing fall.
There are also on the premife9, a Brewery and Diftilfc
ry, built with stone, in them are three stills, two coppers
or boilers, with every neceflary article, all new, and in
good order, and fafficiently large to carry on the Brew
ery and Distillery upon a very extensive plan. This prop
erty I will rent for the fame term of years.
Upon jny lands adjoining the pre(mfe9, Ind along the
banks of the river, where craft may lead with ease and dis
patch, is an i cmenfe q iantity of building and founda- j
J9 tion-ftones. Four quarries are now open,-and as many 1
more may he opened with ease : the ftose taken from these
quarries is better, and has the preference at this market,
to any other stone brought to it. I will rent these quarries
separately or together as may btft suit.
On the top of the hill, and about 200 yards from the
mill, is a stone Dwelling-house, large enough for the ac
commodation of a family : also, a kitchen, dairy, fmoke
boufe, &c. aDd a garden, enc'ofed and in'eultiyation, the
foiof which is equal in goodnofs to any in this state. I
4 will also rent this4>roperty.
'S Adjoining to the Brewery and Distillery is a Smith's
re (hop, in which is a complete set of Blackftnith's tools,
re which I will also rent, and "if agreeable I will hire to the
tenant two negro blacksmiths, one of them is a complete
workman.
II I rent out the stone quarries, I will fell three crafts,'
which were built For the purpose of carrying ftont : they
wili altogether bring upwpjds of 90 perch. Immediate
possession will be given. For terms apply to th#fubfcnb
er in this to\tn.
lis The Mill, Brewery and Distillery, withthe'f apptirtcn
of anccs, will be delivered to the tenant or tenants in gobd
-5- repair, and must be so returned, at the expiration ol Irr
lease or leases.
le PHILIP RICHARD FEN DAL'..
Alexaodrij, Aug. 16 —25
For Sale,
(Ih an excellent situation for bufinrfs,)
A three-story brick House and Lot of
Ground, '
Eighteen feet fror.t and twenty-five feet In depth, on »
the South fide of Market near Front-street, now in pofief
fion of Samuel Read.
Apj-iy to
Israel Pleafants, or
Charles & Jcfeph Pleafants.
Sept. Xjj. - - - - drf -_ . .
For Sale,
A Three (lory BRICK HOUSE and L«t, in Chefaut
Meet, between Front and Second flrcets, in which
Msfirs. Jamel Calbraitli &Co. have for many years (and '
now do) carried on bufmefs.
PoiT'C.on will be given in one month, or sooner. *
For terms apply to WII,I.IAM BEJ.L, or|
HjECTOR CALBRAITH.
April »I. _ §
A Book-Keeper, .
OR Clerk's place is wasted by a pcrfon properly quali- j
fied, and whose cWailer will be found unexception
able. A pply to the Printer. ~ r
'Aug. tits
FOR SALE,
COFFEE, jn hhds. hbls. & bags^
COTTON, of Demerara, and f entitled to drawback 1
r SOAL-LEATfiER >
' \ A lib,
. BOSTON BEEF, and Mould and Dipt CANDLES.
Apply to ISAAC HARVEY, Jun.
No. 5 south jfVater-ftreet. 1
8 mo. ao. saw
Dutch Goods,
Received by tbs PtnnfyJxKMua, frorr. Js%ifltrdam. ,
GIN, in pipes (
Mbrliix
Ticklenburgs > In Bales •
Ofnaburgs J
£3™ } «•*<*'*<*
Hollands \ XKCKXin ditto
Parens J 14
in ditto
. EE" j
1 l>cr"Sal:'by* 7HOMAS'& JOHN KBTLAND.
au;. 29 t-*
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo ef tbe (hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, £fcm Cal
cutta and Bengal,
cov?:sting o»
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
CO TTOH and SILK GOODS.
e AMONG WHICH A*t
. A -variety fine worked and plain Mufiins-,
r Poreas, ls?c. Alfa, ■■
A Quantity of ExreHeni Sugar,
lr bojees and bags—afid BLAGK PEPPER,
Fbr Sale by
"Willings y Francis,
Wfe. it P«an Stret t-
I'.r.e 8 §
v—- —■ —
To be Sold 5 ,
At No. 128, AV. Hh Szcptrd-Streety.ar.d by several oj.
the AtHitkecarhi in this City.
r PRANSFERS of the right so remove pains and inHamroa
*■ tiefns from the humanbadyj asfecuted to Dr ELISHA
i PERKINS, hy patent, with inftruihents and dire&ions ne
' ceffaiy for the pra&ice. Thw mode of treatment is particn
hYly u.ejul in relieving pains in the headj.facej teeth, breali,
(ide, flomach, back, rheuinatiftns, recent gouts, &c. &c.
Notwithftandiug the utility of this pra&ice, it is not pre
"" fumed but there are cases in which this aro every other
, remedy may sometimes fail*
June 1, *aw
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
-
n ——
:£ Notice is hereby Given,
41 agreeably to an aft of Congrcfs of the United
'1 States of America, passed at Philadelphia, the eßth day
* of May, *798 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey
,r ance of pet ions, and repealing the former acts for that pur
pole.—That there (hall be levied, colle&ed and paid, upon
y all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which (hall be
kept by or for any perfoo, for bis or her own use, or to let
o out to hirfc, or for the conveying of paiTengers, the several du»
d ties and rates fallowing, to wit.
1- for and upon every Coach, 15 doll.
it upon every Chariot, la dols 1
e upon every Pod Chariot, it ools;
j* upon every Post Chaifc, 12 dols.
g upon every Phaeton, with or without top, 9 doh
■ [m upon every Coachee, 9 dols. . r
a upon othrr Carriages, having panne/ work above,
)m with blinds, glasses or curtains, 9 dols.
upon four wheel carriages, having framed posts and
e • tops with (leel springs, 6 dols.
upon foCtr wheel top Carnages, with wooden or iron
" springs orjacks, 3 do^.
upon curricles with tops, 3 go's.-
rs upon chaises with tops, 3 dols._
n upoach-ifs with tops, 3 dols.
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
)- upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dob.
upon two whe<l ca. iiages, with steel or iron springs,
le .. 3 dols.
f- For and upon all other two wheel carriages, a dols.
upon every four wheel carriage, having framed posts
y and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
I e The Collectors of the Revenue of the firft lurvey of the
t Diftrift of Pennsylvania, will attend daily, urtt il the 30th day
•j of September next, for the purpose of rece iag the duties on
" Carriages, at No. in Race or Saffafras flreet, in the City
I of Philadelphia, at the houie of Daniel S. Clair, Efq in the
ie I County ot Montgomery; and at the house of Abraham Du
c~ | bois, Esq. in the County of Kucks; of which all persons pos
e* 1 fefled of f«ch Carriages are defuedtotake notiee*
't Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri
/s tubus liquors, that licences', will be granted 4 tp jhem ; one li
is cencc for carrying on the business ot retailing of Wines, in a
le lefsquantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one
te licence for carrying on the bufmefs of retailing Spirituous li
quors in lefsquantities than 20 gallons, at the lime time and
. at the fame placcs, by the o[Heirs legally authorised to grant
' fucU licences.
-y WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpettor of the kevenue of the firil survey
' 3 " of j the ditlrirfot Pennsylvania.
Office of vor., at I <i 3®
n " PniladrlphU, aiu Julv, 1796 j s
:>d ' |
0? A N T P. D,
An APPREX7 ICE to lit Pnrting Bujinifs.
, , Brtqnire at this OHlce. ' a.uj.
1
.' •
French Goods.
Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Hatsre dc*
Grace,
SHOES of all colors/6rt= and fiz«3
I Cafe J ■ -
ijiitto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS
i*i>itto l-i:le I AWN
I Ditto best fine CAMBRIC
I Ditto Ladies' best fliammy and Grenoble Gloves
For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KF I LAND.
A Up.' %A ' ' V
* ~ hAiii i- D, *
Fat any teim from one to four years,
A HOUSE, pleasantly fitiiatcd In any of the principal
streets wifhin the pavement, and iV' very difunt from
the S'tate-Houfc, capable f>l accommodating a small fami
ly ; the house must have ftahjes and coach house, and
would'be required to be ready by the firft week in No
verr.ber'hcxt—Euquire of the printer.
Sept. 14. " * , *tf
A Single Woman,
Of a good charafker, that would take part ol a small
House, may hear of one by applying it No. 210, North
Front-ftfett " 3t*pt. 14. dj""
■■■■LJILU IJ. I. I „ -.iir i-
HIBERNIAN SOCIETY.
A QUARTERLY MEETING of the HtßETtNtAsr
ScqtiTT for the Relief of Emigrant- from. Ireland,
will be held at Mr.'M'Shane'.s tavern, in 1 hird-ftreet, od
Saturday the 17th inft. at seven e'ilock in the. Evening.
MaTßest Caret, Sec'ry. '
September 13, 1796. ' d 5 ' .
>. 8. It ia particularly requested the members wi}l te
punfiual in their attendance.
N O T I C E.
THE Snbfcriber, having been in bis
(lances, by sundry misfortunes, and being thcrelir
enable to his Just give* notice to Hi*
Creditors and to all perfens concerned, thSrt He int4BdS'->o
apply to the General Assembly of Maryland at their next
feffipn to be held on the firft Monday of November next,
for the benefit of an a& of insolvency.
WILI.IA -.1 EDMONDSON
E aft on; Ift of the sth ffiohth.'Y-'jjS."*" " iawtiKNTNI
. —
7His DAT IS' PUBLhV.tD, 1
And fold by W ILLI A M GOBBET T, oppo£te
Chbrft Church,
. . MISS WILLIAMS'S
Lafl Lefifon to the Admirers of French
Liberty.
Let tb"& whof cfluSt of 'tlnr Lfts {rated in Porcupine's
Bloody Buoy, read here and be convinced-
At the fatnf place may ie had,
Watson's Apology for the Bible }
Being a complete refutation 6f that W?fjf>>.emous work
falfciy called the " Age o!f Reaion."
•' As 41/.
All the Grub-flreet Pamplilets, vcm'itcd forth frc»
the lungs of filth ar.J fa'fehood, against
Peter Porcuploe-
Sept. 14- **3
Great Js Tpvrit and must prevail.
tffST FOBtl-SIU B,
. And. for fab at i\V 41 Qhefnut-Jlreit b'y J. OR M ROD,
An Apology for the i>ible ;
'■ By R. Watson, p. b. f. x. s.
Bi/kcp of Lanilffi iSt.
Being a complete refutation of Fainc's
Age of Reason,
And the only anf»cr to the Second Part. >Mt
Aufuft'jo.' ' * f ' ,
Wm. HOLDLRNKSSE,
Nb. 76 High Street,
HAS received, liytl.e latest arrivals from Europe and
the Baft 'Indies, a well feleifted afibrtmcnt of Siik
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Htiherdalhery Goods'; which
he will f«U, Wholcfale and Retail, en theloweft terms
' amongst which are,
Some fine Indla'mafllns em'ntbidered with gold and fflvcr
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aad Mulmul ditto
Co do do 00 Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffeties,lutsftrkgsand colored Perfiani
B.'.ndaho Handkerchiefs
Long and flibrt'Nankeins
English Mantuas of" the firft quality
Damalk tab(e linen and napkins, Very fine
Silk Hoficry, ap elegant aiTprtmsnt
Thead add cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do clstb
French cambrics, very fine
trilh Linstis, a<J.' *&c. Ac. June 14 §
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
I Of tfre bejl quality and on rtafonablc terms,
roni sale sv
'■ £$$$! & Co..
A Ben ft 16.
1 ■ 11 ——~'
Just Arrived, •• -
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatriclt, master from Li.
verpool,
■ 5000 Bushels SALT ;
100 Crates W ARE; an 4
An Afiortment of SHIP CHANQLERY ;
for s A'L E
j. On board, at Pine-street wharf.- Apply to
y James Campbell, or
" Gearge Latimer.
e April 29. 5
" CABL ES, *
From 16 to 9 £ inches, for sale by
Jeremiah Warder,
July 21 I No 12 north Third-street.
- At a Jpecial meeting cf the Board of Di
:l feelers for ejlabli/bing isfeful Manufaclures, boldest
at Paterfon, July 8, 1796,
RESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock
holders of the Society be call«d on the firft Monday,
being the third ay of Odobcr next, at Paterfon, by ten
of the Clock of the fame day; then and .there to take
into confutation the propriety of diColving the faii
~ corporation, agreeably to the law hi luch cafe made and
provided— »nd the Stockholders are earnellly rcquefted
to attend the said meeting in person or by proxy.
' August *7. ■ it jothOFrom the Cambridge Intelligencer.
THE STORM.
ON the lone cliff, that hides its favagehrow
the bofsm of each threat'ning cloud,
I liften'd for tfie ship-bell's found,
The merry leainan's laugh, the labouring oar ;
J look'd for vales, with blooming flowreti crown'd ;
But all were fled. The wind blew cold and loud;
No fbotftep mark'd a wanderer on the (hore,
The waves with anger rent the rock below.
Shivering ] fjw the tumbling bark a wreck,
Sink 'midst the fury of the boiling wa*es,
Poor haplefi sailors' cold untimely graves,
Their knell the sea-birds' melancholy (hrielc.
Perhaps some female at this very hour,
Chill'd by the grasp of fear, upbraids the wind,
And racks with busy thought the brooding mind,
As on the window beats the midnight (how'r.
1 -But half the w*ild, unknown to thought or care,
. Secure in costly domes, lie hid in sleep,
Deaf to the moanings of the troubled air, / ■
'Or (hrieks of death that ifiue from the deep.
ORLANDO.
CAMBRIDGE June 4.
A letter has just been received from Mr. Fy(he ,j
Palmer, dated Sydney, New South Wales, June ,
13, 1795, in which that colony is represented to
be in the most dreadful fituation v The military
officers monopolize all the trade ; every (hip which
arrives they immediately buy the eango, which they |
fell even at the rate of 1000 per cent, profit.—A
Mr. Bolton, who was sent out some time fiuce by j
government to cure fifti and make fait, hai never t
yet beep employed; anii on his Hating to the com- (
making officer that he would undertake, with the (
aflillance of boats and men, to'fupply, from Lord j
Howe's lfland in the neighbourhood, a full or even
a double allowance of well cured fifh, at the third ,
of the pi ice of beef and pork, 110 notice was taken ,
of the proposal, though the eolony at that time ]
" had not provisions for a month, though every per- t
son was at half allowance, and thoughTowls were c
felling at five (hillings each, and a cabbage at fix- c
pence, and pork at one (hilling and fix-pence per 0
pound.—Mr. Palmer's men, which, he had bought g
at a monltrous rate, with his farm, were taken n
from him ; a message was also sent to him to pull
njf his hat to the officers, othei wife he would be t
confined and punished ; and orders had been twice r
given for no soldier to speak to him, though the ]
ceremony of " capping" the officers was never o- a
mitted by him, and though he never conversed with ii
the soldiers.—The good undemanding which Go
yernor Philips took pains to cultivate between the
natives and whites was entirely done away, and a J
system of plunder and extermination substituted.
The natives of y the Hakfbury, (the richest land
possibly in in the world, producing thirty and forty
bushels of wheat per acre) having by cultivation
loft their favourite food the wild yams, poverty
compelled them to Ileal some indian corn to support '
nature, a crime which the unfeeling settlers refeut
ed by unpeialleled severities, Sixty soldiers were n
"sent to kill and deftioy all they could meet with ;— n
and a native boy, who lived with a settler, was (]
made t<i discover where his parents and relatives con- H
cealed themselves. The soldiers came upon them, fc
seized them, unarmed, and, unexpe&ed, killed five, p
and wounded many more—the dead bodies-were n
hung on gibbets, in terror cm. Mr. Palmer con- ];
'eludes Viis letter by hoping-.that on the arrival of d
governor Hunter, a policy will be introduced that u
may corre£t the many abuses and oppreffiont the f
colony at present groans under. i,
The late coufpiracy "at Paris has been evidently h
encouraged by the difaffeftion of the inhabitants of a
that city, on account of the old quarrel relative to t
the re-ele&ion of the two-thirds. This point, our f,
will recolledt, was "not enforced without a t
struggle at the time, in which many lives were loft ; p
and as we have often stated, force is not the way tc y
convince ; it may exterminate, but never ean produce
a chdnge ef mind. Thus the present governors of a
France would have e(labli(hed themselves much o
»nore firmly, and what is of mote importance, t]
would have established the constitution under which r
they aft, had they acceded to the request of the Pa- tl
rifians, by publishing the departmental returns, so n
>6 to have made it evident that the constitution was f<
Teally adopted by the majority of the people ; tbtV tl
refufal to do so left doubts on the public mind which g
have not decteafed, Snd which, but for the acci- tl
dental of the Dire&ory, might have pro- C
duced anothe"? revolution. ri
Our Jlrong government, and their violent adfrer- le
ents, might, (if they would ever pursue wisdom) tl
learn a salutary lesson even from this high-handed n
tfonduft of the regicides—they might from this I
know, that an obstinate refufal to gratify the peo- p
pie in their reasonable demands, does not tend to ef- a
tablifh a government. a
A young man in Greenock of the name of Kid, n
who has been blind from his infancy, has lately fin
ifhed the model of a sixty-sour gun ftiip, of about ti
five feet keel, with carriages for the guss, and every tl
•nece'Hary material and aparelling of a fhip'of that c
-rate, without any assistance whatever, or other.in- h
3rument than a imall knife and hammer. c ,
DUBLIN, July 7. g
That the situation of Eilropc and the world is '1
new one may fee admitted ? but whatever ti
the difficulties may be which throws upon nag
tians, TtO one who has read our history can doubt tl
iiiat :&is a propitious.xra for a poor and oppriffled d
i-ountty like Irelaifd All that we have gained for in
the lalt fifty years was gained during of di
war—and the rrfore difaltrous the war, the greater C
the advantage. This, therefore, is oui time for
our conftit'tition with that of tc
Great-Britain 4 nns is the time for putting an em- ar
•jargo on the abfentet trade, which leaves so great fh
« portioa of the kingdom in idleness, beggary and n<
i.ilipatiGii; this is the time for demanding that the
jrloufe of Commons We in reality what it is by the
. onllitotion ; the Reprefentativws of the People;
is the time for placing the conftitutioa and the
vnnnedion with England upon an equitable and un. at
■■r-ceprionabte basis. 1 t j,
Are we ungenerous to make demands of right
~'iica there is a -likelihood of tlieiriiiccefe? No. fp
:4 '
5 : We would be-the besotted peoplethat we are called
- if we omitted aa opportunity to do so. 1 here is
nothing incompatible in attending to the mainte
nance of order, and the redrels of grievances :
they are the grossest libellers of government who
difTeminate a contrary doctrine, because its tenden
cy is to drive the community todefpair, tofeparate
them from the conftiKied authorities, and to teach
them to look only to themtelves for redress. We
are bow on the eve of a general eledlion—and if the
ele&ors do n«t bind every candidate to the great
measures which are yet wanting to completeour po
litical fyflem, the depression of their counxry will
be f. cmne in which, if they do not participate,
they connive at, and deserve to feel the eonfe
qucnces.
It must be very unpleasant to us in the present
critical period, to mention that the persecution in
the county of Armagh rages with a fury that would
not discredit the ardour of Dioclesian. Such
unfortunate people as have presumed to stay in that
- country,-have fuffered a complete devaluation of
property; and others, who preferred exile, have
been_ hunted from the province, and harrafTed on
the road by reproaches and insults. This is the age
which is called liberal ; and this the quarter which
ie pretends to separate political punishment from reli
e gious opinions.
0 __
>' MONTEGO-BAY, August 6.
' l Last Sunday arrived the brig Phoebe, Harvey,
y from New-York, in 35 days. On the 12th of
July, at 2, P. M. in lat. 28, 48, Capt. Harvey
y saw four fail to leeward, about three leagues dif
r tance, which proved to be three large French fliips
" of war, and a schooner, supposed to be a tender.
e One of tkem, a 74, made for the Phoebe, fired a
' (hot, and brought her too, when (he was boarded
11 by two officers, who, upon iufpedling the papers,
were perfedlly fatisfied. They informed, that they
11 were four days from Cape-Francois—that Guada
e loupe was' in palfeffion of the Englilh—and that
- they were bound for America- They were desir
e ous of knowing if there were any Engli(h cruisers
• on the coast of America, or laying in the harbor
f of New-York. They treated Capt. Harvey with
t great civility, and offered him any assistance he
? might in need of.
1 On the Z4)h ult. Capt. Harvey was boarded by
e the Swallow English sloop of war, cruizing on the
c north fide of Cuba, who informed him, that the
s Dunmore, of New-Providence, bound to this ifl
• and, was taken the beginning of July, and carried
> into the Havanita.
• From the GOLUMBIAN MIRROR.
a LtVMI PoW!ll, Esq. has offered as a Representative
of the coujities of Loudoun and Fauquier, at
I the approaching eledion of President and Vice-
I Prertoent of the Unittd States. The occasion
» produced a circular letter to the Freeholders of
f the Diftiift, from which the following is an ex
t tract.
AFTER what has been said, it may feem\in
e Ijceeffary to declare that George Washington is the
- man of my choice as President; and as Vice-Pre
s fident, to aft with him, I now believe I should give
- my vote to John Adams. These men have both
» been tried in their refpe&ive offices—we have prof
> pered under their management, and I feel no with to
s make experiments. But reports have lately circu
lated that General Walhington has declared his
f determination Vj retire from public life j (hould this
t unfortunately be the cafe, the'queftian is, who (hall
: succeed him ? This, indeed, is a nice question, and
involves several considerations. 'Till very lately we
r have only heard of Mr. Jefferfon and Mr. Adams
f as certain candidates for the Presidency, and of both
> these there have been some reports, which,, if well
r founded, would make me reluctantly vote for either
1 to fill this important poll. Whether these have
; proceeded from party spirit, ought, and no doubt
will, be the fubjeft of enquity.
: It is now said Mr. Patrick Henry, of Virginia,
f and Mr. Pinckney, of South Carolina, will both be
1 on the nomination—Should it be so, I must declare
, that I feel at present disposed to vote for. Mr. Hen
-1 ry. This gentleman was at firft much opposed to
■ the general government; but, I believe, after amend
» ments were obtained, he became reconciled to it •
> for we have not heard of his joining in the cry of
r the present opposition againtt every measure of the
1 government, as has been commonly the cafe with
• those who were opposed to the ratification of the
■ Constitution ; but, on the contrary, his late decla
rations condemning, in the strongest terms, the vio
• lent measures in the last Congress, (hew
I that he is a friend to peace, order and good govern-
I ment. A ftrongreafon for the appointment of Mr.
i Henry is, that it may have a tendency to unite all
■ parties, and do away that ipirit of contention which
■ at piefent rages with so much 'violence amongst us
and threatens the deftruftion of the Union. I am'
, not fufELiently acquainted with Mr. Pinckney to
• fay more of him than that his chafer is refpec
: table, is a friend to government, and that he was
' the negotiator of the treaty with Spain, which is
: considered a very advantageous one to us. I ftil]
■ however, entertain hopes that the fame love for his
country, which has hitherto induced the President
to facrifice all private eonfiderations to the public
good, will lead him to continae in office, at least
1 till the ejtabnfhment of peace in Europe ; for un
til that takes place, 1 conceive all his firmnefs and
good judgment are requiCte to keep us clear of
their deftrudive contests. If, however, he (hould
determine to retire, and you (hould give- me a vote
; in the chsice of a successor, I fliall conflder j t
duty to weigh jW ell the charaflers of the different
Candidates, and, to the best of my judgment, give
"the preference to that man who wjll be mod likelv
to preserve the peace and "happinefa of our colmtry
and the government under which we live
(hall be my firft considerations, and, in my determi
nation, public opinion (hall have its due weight.
iV fr SA i jEIVl ' ( N - J-) Sept. 1.
Mtffrs. Printers,
The following extras of a letter from a friend
at Marietta w! , I hope, afford some pleasure to
the readers of the Aigus.
la . i,,formcd you of a valuable fait
fpnn^.f CO vmd near the river. Tlih
:d I unikrftood from a person whs» had been 20 y-ears
is prisoner with the Indians, was cjpe of many with
e- which this country abounds, that are termed iwi- 1 - .
s: springs. He assured me that there was one not ,
10 more than 50 miles frorta this cailed the Big p l ■
a . —Following his diredions I set out with two others ,
te in search of it. After wandering two weeks thro ,
:h as fine acountty as I ever saw, to our un pea
r e fatisfa&ion we found it. It is situated not 50
le miles from Marietta—and about 8 from the Musc
at ingum by which we may have water carnage to a.
0- our settlements. It lffues a fufficient <l" antlt y 0
ill water ta keep 1000 gallons constantly boiling, ten
e, gallons of this water will as experiment has pi ov^d,
e- afford one quart of fait, superior in quality to any c
made on your sea coast. This is to us moie t lan a c
it golden trefcfure. And will no doubt expedite tie r
in settlement of this country.
Id May we not, my dear fir, contemplate the pen- 1
:h od when our offspring will disclose the solid rocks
st of fait from which these streams flow ? shall we not
jf fee this fertile country blessed with plenty of this '
'e ufeful and salutary commodity ?"
•„ _ ;
, h Philadelphia,
j,
THURSDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER Ij p 1796. I
— f
r, Yesterday arrived the (hip South Carolina, John 1
>f Carman, Commander, in 10 days fiom Charleftotl. /I
y In the South Carolina, came, the following pas- c
f. fengers.
, s Gen. C. C. Pinckney and family f
Honourable William Smith t
a Mr. Latham and family a
d Miss Kennedy I
i, Mr. Cudworth
y Mr. Cahn9 t
Mr. Inglefby
t Mr. Hyndman c
Mr. Parrifh a
s Mr. Everingham
r Mr. Sibly J
1 Mr. Charlcfworth
e M r - Richards
Mr. Wyche
yr Mailer Alston
e Matter Alston
e Matter Izard g
— J
J Extra& of a letter from on board the frigate Har- w
m»ny, Commodore Barney, dated the 2d of tl
September. %
" I expe&ed to havefoad the pleasure of feeing a :
e 7°" i" your city, but being chafed on the coast by
t a superior force, were obliged to alter our deftina- o
.. tion. Write to me at the Cape."
n Ext raft of a letter wrote to the French Consul at tl
if Philadelphia, by a passenger in the Pennsylvania, tc
Capt. York, which was lent as a flag of truce, tl
from this port to Bourdeaux, dated Bourdeaux, f c
1- J"iy 4- • 0I
c "1 hasten to inform you of our happy arrival p
. here, after a very plealant passage of 30 days. We £
e met tht.moft kind reception from the inhabitants I
h of this city.
'be difpau hed a ° tZ " soon as 1 m
■ k " i« entirely destroyed. The armies £
8 have crossed the Rhine with the greatell success. hi
s rhp city enjoys a perfed tranquility and every thina
!l is here in abundance, bread fells at zi-zfolsa
$ pound." 01
(True Copy,) LIOT , Consul.
b if*" 1 Amtrkan Advertiser.
|| Messrs. Claypoole,
a pv'w 110 " 1 "?" thc C ° Py ° s3 lettcr d! «fted by lv
a Chickafaw, who was on a visit to the Cherok—s ,
informing his friends of the dfcath of the Hanging e r
Maw, the; great chief of the. Cherokees. If th er! I
be any thing thc idcas or c w
your judgment would entitle it to a place in your g
paper, you will by inferring it oblige
A CUSTOMER ™
Fr April I
Friends and Brothers,
WHEN 1 eame to this plate about five davs
ago, I had the pleasure of feein? and tall; 1
our friend, thc Hanging Maw ! b "f u P ; g W " h di
mnr . r„,i ■ . ■, 0 s lldw > out he is now no
Your friend and brother, ~
(Signed) CAPTAIN GEORGE.
BY THIS DAY's MAIL. "
V A C " ARL EsT(^ C pt e mber 1. °*
Yesterday asnved the schooner Unity, R ase ll °'
Montego Bay, 34 days. T ' Kasel1 ' a . r
On Tuefdajr evening the sloop Nancv, Captain l "
5 Diamond, belong, ng to Salem, lying J Cochr n' P
wharf, was (truck hv J 5 ot '-oenran s 0(
(hivercd that a fmall^ffof ' L* er ma was rc
after it was ft! ' ab ° Ut l S minutes Pi
it was uruck, threw ,t on (he wharf TK
captain and crew were on board ; fortunate'lv th
received no injury. unately they iir
In the afternoon of the fame Lv .J, r dj
Mrs- Miliigan.on Federal Gr«„ J: 3 a ll r\° f m
the iron door of the oven S. r ° , Uck ; al:
■have been melted by the flalh ' Up P° fcd to qi
Arrived—Brij» Sukey, Thntther. Bristol.
V,fl« j ■ Se P tera ber2. .
Amlkrdam! • L\o^f r Tw! slugs' Welt' '''
20,h. Whe^^iUXT« e t m atcrthanthe y°
of the line and fcveral fr.Vat. 1 ' u W " e 12 fa,i P"
Channel he I U
which, after examining his paperT- T'h P c <
*,jl rrv^r" k, " < °-
! Weli-lniiK. ** c ottlapjs^edthem bo.nd t 0 the ■ In;
irs Off Bermuda the Pique frigate fell in with him ■
captain of which lent an officer _nd 8 men on- board'
•Je who took possession of the brig : the captain, tour of
his men, and all his letters, were sent on board of the
frigate, the captain of which broke open his letters •
g- and told captain Scott, that if he had not been on his'
i' s pafTage to Europe, he would fend him to the Weft,
o' Indies. After detaining him about hours he sent
le Captain Scott and his men on board the br.g, and x,z
---■ q turned him his letters and papers.
ill NEW-YORK, September 13.
of 1 We yesterday received the Journal of Frankfort
;n to June 30. The fubHanca of the intelligence con- '
d, tained in the papers, is, that the troubles in Cotfi.
ly ca are quieted,, and the viceroy is determined to i
a convoke a new parliament, and accede to the de
ie mands of the inhabitants, which are. found to be
reasonable : that the formal liege of Mantua com
i- menced on the 3d June —the-garriifon having been f
[ S firlt summoned to furiendei ; the gartifon con lifts or ! fl
)t 8000 men, betides 400 cannoneers: that Mr. Oehs s
is the minister who was sent to Pari* to accommodate I
the differences between-the cantons of Switzerland
and the French republic, had returned with a satis.
• fadiory explanation, and that the good undtrftand
jog between these Hates, would not be interrupted; ' }]
that prince Hohenlobe, general of artillery, j, to'
have the command of the troops on the Upper • t-
Rhine : the French division under general Kiebcr
fuffcred very much in the action of June 19, at ti
ll keradt, (the Au!!riau accout us which is nlw and
j. shall be given at length)— That the Aultrian' a C .
f. counts represent the Belgians ds extremely difhtis
fied with their new French government they !<»ing
fubjea to requilitions of provilions and ho: fc, for
the Frencharmics—to rhe forced loaw—to old taxes
and new—in short, universal l'ad.iefs reigns at
Brussels.
General Wurmfer arrived at Infprnck June 2 c
to take command of the army in Tyrol.
The fame paper contains the news of the French
crossing the Rhine at Strafbtirgh, and taking Kehl
as we have been'informed.
LATEST ADVICES from AMSTERDAM.
FROM THE
AMSTERDAM GAZETTE, of JULY 5.
f TRANSLATED FOR THE MINKRrA. \
A letter from Anvers of June 30. not only con
firms the news of the crossing of the Rhine by the
French army at Strafburg, but adds that the French
- were advancing in force towards Heidelberg, to
tllr °vv themselves in the rear of the Auftrians, and
that the head-quarters of the prince of Conde were
J already in their power.
1 On the 28th ot June, the left wing of the army
- of the Sair.bre and Meufa had advanced from Wup
per towards Acher and the Sieg. On th- 29th,
t the division of Grenier pafied the Rhine at Cologne,
> to join the troops of Kleber, which they effeaed. ,
> the fame day. When they arrived Sfl the Sieg, they
> found no enemies there. The divisions of Champi .
onet, of Bonnard, and of Bernadotte, were pre
-1 paring to re-cross the Rhine near Bonn, and join
e general Kleber, and advance again towards the
• Lahn.
: il he last letters from Petersburg inform, that
merchandise, the property of the Dutch, witt'cfi
had arrivciTTh neutral botoms, had been fcqueftered
s by order of the empress, without any previous pro
• hibitton of its importation.
( [This articlc seems to contradict a paragraph ia
1 our advices from Hamburg. J
Letters from ii ent of June 14, by the way of'
Augsburg, Germany, Hate, that the Austrian ge.
neral was waiting for further reinforcements, to ad«
vance and attempt toraife the siege of Mantua.—
No important movement had taken pi ce for ten oc
r twelve days. The account from Venice state (he
> total loss *of the French in Italy, since the op
' emng of the campaign, to amoii;t to 2p,ooomen ;
; which account the German editor fays is notcxag
-1 gerated.
A letter from Neuweid dates, than the Atiftriati
army on the Lahn amounted to more than 80,000
men—6o,ooo were in the vicinity of the Sieg, and
24,003 between Neuweid and EhrenbreilUcili.
A letter from Milan, of June 13, fays, Salicetti
' is replaced by citizen Pinfot, as com miliary of the
' directory with the army of Italy. _ •
' I hree deputies are gone to Pan's 'obear to the
Directory the wishes of the people of Lotnbit£y>
> in refpc€t to a revolution in the government.
1 lie municipality have published an ediit, of
which the fubftanceof the preamble is as follows:
" Liberty, citizens, advances towards us rapidly,
and the tree which we have planted appears to be «
taking deep root. The people, undeceived and
calm, despise those who have blinded them. Re
nouncing all prejudices, they know no tJiflindlion
of men, but the g'ood and bad citizen, the patriot
or the aristocrat. But they view, with disgust, the
> arms of the nobles exposed in public, their domes
tics adorned with liveries, to gratify ariftocVatie
1 pride. The ears of the people can no longer, es«
5 dure the ridiculous names of Count, MaTquis, Ba»
' roil, Duke, Prince and Noble. The citizcn who
! passes before the tribunal,- and reads at the head of
• the decrees, '< By order of the Feudal Pretorlhip"'
iind burns with indignation that the infamous feu»
dal government yet exists, and seems to accuse the
f municipality which permits jt, while at the head of
! all their new orders, they prefix—" Liberty, E«
1 quality." And you, Nobles, if you are not ene
mies of the people, and of yotirfelves, facrifice vo.
laptarily your privileges, as unjust as frivolous.—
t-onfidir that it is as unjurf to value yourselves on
the merits of your ajiceSors, as it would be to be
puniflied for 'heir crimes. Burn the parchments
and the coats of arms that preserve your pretended
pride and rank—iet ll.e fire purge you of youran
tient errors. Do not think the people willopprtfs
, y°": Ih e people are just—they are good, i'hey
I pumfh ceimes—they pity error, and accept the re*
I p.nting. Let become people, and the
people will receive them with open arm 9.
SUBSTANCE.GF THE DECREE.
Art. I. Nubility nmai s aboiifhed for ever.
Art. If No petfor fli ill takeaby title of nob:-
j but fo'e'y that yf a cuixcn, or of his prekO
j, Utta or ius
r ' 'Art. lit. AH the nobles fliall, in eight days-'
Siting to/he public house of the commune, the pa
pert, which prove only their nobility, to be there
burnt.
Ait. IV AW feudal authority is abolished-—al
fa/ all exelufive privileges of hunting.
Art\V. All armorials, liveries and other distinc
tions of rank are abolished.
Art. VII. Those who contravene the present
& decree, (hall be considered as attached to ariltocra
ey and enemies of the people.
' One of the deputies, Goleat Serbellofl, as he
departed.for Paris, difchatged hirnfelf of his cham
berlain's key,-confidering jj, he said, as a mark of
.slavery.
The new commiflary has, by proclamation, or
dain.ed that all persons indebted to government or
power* at war with France, or to emigrants,, (hall
render an account of the sums due. Another pro
clamation orders an inventory to be made of all
the moveables belonging to the church.
Our correspondent at Hamburgh, whose infor
mation may be relied on as authentic, under the
date of July 8, communicates the following parti
culars—
The French were mailers of Upper Italy, except
the citadel of Milan, which they were preparing;
, to assault. The repott of th? loss of 8000 French,
at a pass on the Adige, was a falihood propagated
in some Imperial gazettes, and universally be
lieved for some days in Germany ; designed pro
bably to aid" the spirits of the Auftrians, when
marching to Wetzlar to encounter General Kleber.
The Anltrian general put an end to the truce,
at the moment the conspiracy of Baboeuf an.
Droutt was to have been executed in Paris, and
relying much on the cffe6t of that plot. The dif
eovery of it threw the Auftrians Into Cqnflernation
—as it did also some of the Orleans party, who
are emigrants, in the north of Germany.
The French a:lrty on the Lower Rhine made a
Tapid progress—all the villages were deserted be
fore them—The archduke crossed the Rhine and
Jordan pursued him. - The battle of Wetzlar,
in which the aichduke bent his force to affifl War
< tenfleben, fucreeded/ and a few days afiei, the.
action at Ukeradt, which was (till m<rv severe,
ami in which and a'her aflions the German ac
COlltitJ declare, the French have loft in killed
wounded, 16,000 men.
General Jourdan seemed not to lend any aflift
ance to General K.eber, and in the fame irae Gen
Moreau made a fpi it ed attack on the li--es near
Manheim, and drove the A.uftri ns to the Rhine
Cattle, near Manhcim, on the left, or weft fide of
the river. These were ma< ceuvres to aid the main
point; that of eroding the Rhine at Strafburgh.—.
•This has forced prince Charles to fall back with
his main body.
By this (tep the army *f the prince of Conde
is entirely tut off from a communication with the
Aultrian army; and must retire to the fouthealt or
inner part of Suabia, or fall iato the hands of the
French. '
On ihe 24th ef June, at Strafburg, it was given
out that Moreau was intended to reinforce the Ita
lian army, and provisions were ordered from a3 far
{is Savoy.
Suabia is a rich fruitful country, its inhabitants
numerous, and well affected to the French revoluti
on—it abounds aifo with rich abbeys and monalte
ries. [Gi«od picking for Republicans.3
The French occupy Raltadt and Ofienburg, be
low Strafburg—the northern army of the Auftri
ans is retiring, a pas de geants, as our correspon
dent ex*preffes it, with gigantic (tricles.
Gen. Kleber and Lefevre have ,again crofiVd the
Sie'g—aijother divifiou' was bombarding NeUwied
* cn the' Rhine, and would soon reercsis. that river.
WarenfleuWn was retiring on the fame mure as be
fort, towards Wc ziar. The environs of Marihrim
have been evacuated by he French army of the
Sambre and Meufe. which was fupoofe*! to be
marching to Suabia. On ihe 2d of July the head j
quarter, of prime* Charles wrre to beat Schwetfin- |
gei,near HMdilbtr^. At Riftadt the French pof- '
fefled themselves of the iargeft Aultrian magazine.)
The French were to occupy Leghorn on th<* 19th
June, and were probatly at Rome eaily in July.
At that time aKo, 80,00. French were marching
towards Frankfort.
Gen. Bucinaparte, fix years ago, was a fiudent
at Pari*, a tlniverfity in th» Milanese, from whfch
he was expelled on account of his principles of li
berty, and a fort of infurie£tion among the stu
dents. r
The empress of Rtiflia has given the Diet of Ra
tifbon to understand, (he cannot loeik-with indiffer
ence on the difiolution of the Germanic, body, and
their abandonment of the emperor. This is mere
parade,"for (he has given the Dutch the right to
t rade to Petersburg, as formerly.
The duke of Brunfwi. k's Pruflian army of ob
fervation, will preserve the north of Germany from
invasion. His head quarters are a Mindtn. The
Pruflian king pretends thus to preserve the neiltrali
* tyof the north ; while his real motives are proba
hly to make himfelf ufeful and necessary to the nor
thern circles, and get his army maintained at the es
penfe of Lower Saxony.
Great Britain begins to fliow more refpeft so neu
tral powers. She has restored the (hi, s captured
from Denmark. An English man.of waT was latfer
ly condemned tp pay all colts and return to their
former ft it ion, forae French cutters and prizes she
had-taken in a harhor of Norway.
The French have taken off the embargo from
Hamburg (hips, and paid for the detention.
The officers in the fervire of the re
public cf Holland, having I carnt, or the fubjeft c
the revolution which has t ken place at Curacao,
some tilings related contrary to tru h, felt themlelv.-s
• compiled to -take the enft'omary mode of traiqui
'zing the m 'nds of those who have commercial bu
fiuefs with the inhabitants of .hat island..
itKe the revolution in Holland, ihe land farce
t .e two frigates ftalioned at Cura ao, in ccii
•o.rr.ity with the orders they had received tinm tl
fie.. government, have always guarded vh» ftft'y c
* in that Island, auU maintained good
-. ■ .' ' i
■■- .■. ' "V ' '
order until the tjth of August la ft, on which day
ail the garrifwn Jifcharged. In a few minutes af
ter the publication of the new conltitution, the sol
diers disbanded themselves and refufed to fervear.y
longer ; they broke their arms and fold them to the
people of color. Whereupon the officers saw a
croud of armed people, composed of inhabitants of
the isle, strangers and people of color, enter the
fort and seize the magazines, arsenals, &c. The
officers were insulted with impunity. By favor of
some generous citizen*, they were taken under the
protection of the burgesses, and the under figne.l,
with full permission of the governor of the isle, and
the high council, as well as of the comtnandant'of
the *Wo frigates, quitted the Island to place them
selves out of the reach of infultsfrom the people of
color.
D<- Wefteholt, Captain C >mmandant.
Pringlr, Capt. Commandant.
R. G Pleghei*, Lieutenant.
L. H Pei ret Gentil, Ensign.
J L. Matile, Ensign.
W. H Quaft, Adj't. of Artillery. ,
New-York, Sept. 13, 1796.
TYRoiujune 26. '
Several trench spies have been discovered in the
Tyrolefe, some of them hove been hanged : among
them was a republican major, disguised as a Capu
chin. On the 17th, an action took place near!
Mofitebaldi, between our advanced polts and the
French troops, in which an Anftriao picquet of 20
men was made prisoners ; but the French were-at
last obliged to retire with the loss of 200 men.
INSPRUCK, J;ine 21.
General Beatilieu has been ted commandant
of Galicia. M. ae Mallas was to have command d
the Italian army, ad interim ; but as he is ill at
Botierf (in the Tyrol) general Beaulieti continues
the command till the arrival of marshal W urmfer.
LONDON, July 12,
Letters were on Friday received in town from
Jerfcy, (taring, that that island had been thrown
into a considerable degree of alarm, in confequence 1
of information rereived there from St. Maloes,
dating, tftat general Hoche, who has been employed
for some months pad in bringing the war with she
Chouans to a conclusion, is now forming a camp of
15000 men in the environs of St. Maloes ; and has
put every filhing and other small veffe] in that port
111 requisition. All embargo has been laid on til
the vefFels in thai port.
The object of this expedition is aVowcdlv again It
the island of Jersey ; and on Monday last, the go
vernor of that island thought' fit to issue a notice,
stating the intelligence he had received, End caution
ing the inhabitants to be on their guard. Orders
to the fame cfft£l were also given to the njilitary.
July 13.
It is positively a fa£t, that the seal partizans of
the house at Orange, now m the unfortunate Duu->
republic, ire at least ninety in every hundred of lire
people ; but they are afraid of cotirfe to discover
their sentiments, or indeed to fiiffer the flightcft
liint of those sentiments to escape them. None
but the mere rabble of the Dutchmen, withot;
pi •■■i'frouf advocate^
for the French ; and they are in the French pay
for the purpose of diffufihg French doctrines, and
keeping the refpe&able order of Dutchmen in sub
mission and terror!
GUILDHALL, LONDON.
Monday, July 4.
GftLBSMIt) aga'ltijl DICKhNSON.
This was an adtion breught by Mr. Goldfmi
against the defendant, for damages, sot having said
of the plaintiff, at the Itock exchange, that he
proniifed to be answerable foi tbe expence of print
ing, &c. the forged L'Eclair, which falfely ao
uounced a Convenrion [between the Emperor and
the Fiet ch Republic in February last (thecircum
fiances of which are now full before the publfc,)
whereby the plaintiff said he was injured fn fame
and reputation, Sec. That it was done mali/ciouf
ly, &c. to effect his ruin, &c. To plaintiff's da-,
mage 20000.
The defendant pleaded two pleas; firft, That
he was not guilty, as stated in the plaintiff's decla
rition, Sec. iecondly, That he was jurtifted in
what he said, he having been told so by others, &c.
To this there was a replication, that the defendant
was jultilied in what he said, Sec.
j On the part of the plaintiff, Mr. Erlkine exert
ed his talents with his usual zeal and eloquence, and
called his evidence, vtho proved that the substance
of what was complained of'was uttered by the de-
I fendant. /
On behalf of -the defendant, Mr. Serjeant Adair
made a very abfe speech, and called some witnesses,
but they did not come up in their evidence to the
cafe he opened for bis client.
Mr. Erfkine mad^a very animated reply on be
i half of the plaintiff.
i Lor 1 Kenyon summed ap the cafe, and made
; many ob)ervatioii6 on the whole of th« cafe ; after
Which the Jury retired, and having remained out of
court about 40 minutes returned with a verdict for
the Plaintiff—Damages 1500!. ' .
VULGAR PREJUDICE.
A few weeks since, a lady in Dublin, who labour
ed under an acute and obftinSte fever, w sattended
by an eminent physician, who found it necessary to
exert his Utrtioft (kill, and prescribe the molt pow
erful medicines, but without any apparent effedt—
and with some astonishment saw his patient exhauf
ied almost to death, in despite of all his (kill ; at
leucTth some flight symptomS of a crisis appearing
he ordertfd some dr-tighis to aid exhausted nature,
and calling in the evening to know how they had
operated, was informed his patient was dead !
On entering the chamber, he saw several women
occupied in walhing the body/and preparing it for
-he lift of the ohfecjuies ; and aceidently calling his.
eyes toward" the windr w, observed iA the casement
if one of the shutters not only the bottles he had
rderod that day in the state they came from ch>
;*thecsry's, untouched, bst all ti'ie medicine he
had pr»fcrib6dfor a fortnight before !
On interrogating the nur.fe-tender, the an/wer
was, " tliat she thought it a fin to teize the poor
Ldywithfuch nnufeous tralh, or to be making a
p<sUekerry's (h;>p her belly."
On a closer infpedtion of the body, the vital
warmth did not feern <Juite extin£t ; a very faint
pulft- almost imperceptibly throbbed at her temples
and wiifts, and the application of a mirror before
her mouth atd nollrilSj evidently (Trowed that res
pira ion was not gone. The body was inftantlv put
into a warm bed, and by the application of proper
cordials, reltored to life in less than three houts,
and to perfect health in lefsthan a month, to the in
, expressible joy of the lady's family and friends ; hut
the poor lady had the to find herfrlf
deprived of a mod beautiful and luxuriant head >>f
hair, which the witches of death had (horn off, in
their hurry to fit her tor the coffin.
NEW-YORK, September 14.
The brig Mary, <!apt. Ware, wliuh artived yes
terday afternoon, left Bourdeaux the lß.h July —
By a eentiemao who came pafenger, we do not
learn that any occurrence had taken place later than*
we have aheady accounts of.
We are promised some papers, from which if they
should be fouVid to contain any thing new, we (hall
give extracts to morrow. '
1 Died, in this city on Friday evening last, aVout
IO o'clock, arter an illness of 13 days, Mr. JO
SEPH SADLER, a native of Great Horfely,
1 tar Colchester, Efiex, England ; of a refpedtahle
family there, and much eftcetned and regretted here
by his friends and acquaintance.
At Philadelphia ..n the 12th inft. Mr.
WILLIAM FAIRLEY, after a (hort illnels, of
the house 0/ Robins and Fairley, merchants of this
city.
"*" "—■**—mi—i t n A,,t m >
GAZBT%R Of THE t/MITKD STATES MARINE VIST
PHILADELPHIA, Stpttmicr i£.
arrived.
Days
Schooner Williams, Hugene, Virginia 5
Patsy, Hugene, do. 4
Sally, Baum, North-Carolina 4
Sea-flower, Williams, db. 4
Betsey, Aftiby, do 4
Sloop Sallyj Potter, , Richmond j
Brig Sulanna, Parrock returned.
CLEARED.
Ship Lovina. Brown, > Cork
Brig tark. Odlcot St. Thomas
Schooner Chriflcy, Brown, Edeiiton
Sloop Jane, J?vkfon, New-York
Arrived at the Fort,
Ship Richmond, , Martinique
Schooner Lovely Lass, Gribbing, Weft-Indies
Good Intent, Hathoway, St. Bartholo
mew's
And a sloop, name unknown.
Ship Ariel, Terris, of Philadelphia, from Phi
ladtlphia to Surrinam, is takenjand carried into M r.
i iqifc, where she lay when the Richmond failed,
■yhe Riolvtn'or.d' and carpo. were unconditionally- li
berated, without any reltri£tjonS.
Baltimore, September 13.
ExtraA from the Log Book of the ship Rebec
ca, ariived on Sunday last.
Left at Hull.
Adventure, Swain, of New York, about half
loaded—and
A Kennebei k velfcl, unknown, just arrived, and
would lail for Bolton.
July 27, lat 46, 42, long. 22, sf, spoke ship
I <dullry, Fletcher, last from Norfolk, bound to
Havre-da-Graee, out 28 days, all well.
Sept. 1, lonp, 65, lat. 36, 15, spoke a ship
from Bolton, bound to St. Bar:hol<-rr.» ws , it blow
ing hard, conld learn neither reflel's or captain's
name.
2, lat 36, 35, long. 69, 34, spoke ship
John, cap'. Jackfo.*, of and fiom Philadelphia,
hound to Hamburgh, out 7 days, all well.
Extradl of a letter from the log-Eook of the snow Eli
za, arrived on Sunday last.
July 91, lat. 47, long. 15, spoke (hip Venus, Sprigg,
from VVifcafiet, bound to Liverpool, out 24 days, ail
well. .
'August 16, lat. 43, 5, long. 45, spoke (hip Juno,
capt. Taggett,from New-York, hound to An.lierdam,
out r5 days.
August 15, lat. 36, 44, long. 6a, fy>oke an Englilfo
(hip from Barbadoes to Liverpool, out 24 ays.
Sept. 3, lat. 36, 45 long,. 69, i"p ke (hip Be.ky,
Capt. Cunnyngh >m, of and from Bait.more to
out 3 days, all well.
/ New Yoßk, September 13
ARRIVED,
v days
Ship Hope/Angelico, Madcita ■ — '
Brig Trio, Jacobs, J 'mdica 25
Chatham, Gieenfield, St. Ann's 18
Raven, —, Trinidad 25
•Eliza, Dunham, Savannah 8
Friends, Johnson, Honduras Bay 30
Calliope, Leonard, Curracoa 23
Schr; Eagle, Borden, Montego-Bay 32
Sophia, Stapelden, ,Charleston 12
Hope, Horace, St. Bartholomews 19
Robinson Crufoe, Church, Jamaica 35
Sloop Commerce, Leer, Martinique 20
Sailed in company with the (hip Henrietta,capt..
Williams bound to Falmouth, and parted with her
fafe through the gulph llream.
Sept em' er 14.
AK RIVED.
Brig Mary, W are, Bourdeaux
Nymph, Miller, , Senegal
Sloop Hannah, Wright, Savannah
Schooner Harriot, Bioud, Port au-Princc.
CLEARED.
Brig Minerva, Wheeden, Welt-Indies
Schooner Two Ftiends, Brooks, Martinique
Capt.-Miller, arrived yeiterday from Senegal in
47 ''-ay- %
'Spoke Sept. 7, the brig Jamaica Packet, J hn
Jay, mailer, from J .maica bound* to Liverpool, one
f the Jamaica fleet, parted in a gale of wind, lat. 35
46, Ipng. 65. '
\ 1
I
>V ' •
r Sept. t2, shout 2oleapues south of Sancfy-fioak
r spoke a froop from New YorL und to tin Waft
a Indies, could not leaf nI he v<-(Tr] or mailer's name.
Capt. Clarke- n the brit? Somerf«t, of New
il York, failed in company with apt. Miller from
t Senegal.
s Capt. Smith, in the fchooi er Caroline, of Bolton
e failed from Senegal fo r Hamburgh, A days before
I" capt. M.
t The brig Jenny, of New-York, cupt.. Dauhijjne,
r and schooner Rambler, capt. Prefofcle,#f B Ron,
i, expected to fail soon, from Senegal, for their res-
ports.
t The fchr. Fell, it y, capt. Cozine, armed at Se
f negd, from New-Yoik, a few days befor cai-t. M.
f failed.
» — .!■ r—»
STOCK Si'
Six pet Cent. *•», - *17/^
Thnc per Cent. ------- . to/7
4. per Cent. - - none for sal;. * - \y lafl.pric4
~ per Cent. ... i(,,6
't Deferred Six per Cent. - ' - to 7
ii BANK United States, .... ao pr. cent.
Psnnfylvania, ■* <• - 27
— North merica, ... >46
.*1 Insurance Comp. North-America, 40per cent. ad*-„
Pennsylvania, S percent.
It courSf of exchange.
I. On London, at 30 days, per £.xco fieri, pa/.
——1 at 60 days, par to l6t i-i
e . " 11 at9odaysi 161 a i6i i-a
c Amsterdam, 60 days, per guilder, 44
90 days, 40
I I 1 —I^—M—
J Washington Lottery.
The 20th and sift Days Drawing is arrived at th 4
Office No. 334, Market-street.
Sept. 1s-
Information ~~
IS given daily of the drawing of the WASHINGTON
LOTTERY, at the Office
No. 147 C.htfnutJlrect,
3 between Fourth and Filth Greats. Also, whre Ticket!
may yet be had. Sept. 15. r.f
The aoth and 41ft Days drawing is arrived
4 Just Landed,
5 96 Bags of Prime Coffee,
Entitled to drawback,
tor Sale at 1217, South csecond-flrect.
k Sept. 15. *d$
18 ■ 1 ! T f
'' One Hundred Dollars Reward.
QOME villainouji person or p rfons having, in the fright
O of the 7Xh*inft. broken and much injured the Marble .
ic Steps at Mr. Pierce Butler's door in High flrett, No*
- s IT5>1 T s> above sum of 100 dollars will be paid immedi
ately to any one who will discover the perpetrator or '
} perpetrators, so- that he or they may be apprehended.
'» Apply to ' PIER 1 E BUTLER,
Or SAM. MAGAW.
Sept. 15. "tf&mj
i * —' —•
r- Rofs and Simfon
. Hive for Sale,
A few calks •
Of an excellent quality,
And a parcel of Lampblack.
c- Sept. 14. ji
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
|f A Valuable SO P and C \NDLK Manufa&or < . filiate
in a Convenient part ol the city ; ihe works alroolt new,
nn an entirely original conltr 6li,>n, and built o) he bell
IQ materials, and mn be fct to work immediately. P.-rfons
who wilh to pure hale, ate requited to app<y at No 273,
_ South Second Street.
September >3. t t f tf
" —lj —»-—.—1 , 1 tm
p Mordecai Lewis
' a * H'S ' 0R SJLE.,
' s NANKEENS, long aid &ort.
China, well alTorted.
QuicklllveT.
P DiaperS
J > Baftas. >
Coflas.
i. Bandano Handkerchief.
Roll Brimstones
r, Sept. 6. tt&fxm
.1 —- w
For sale by the fublcribers,
'» IN Pt NN-STREEI,
'> 136 quarter Cheils frelh Hyson Tea ;
. ii>o ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing (mail tea setts of 4*
pieces;
'> 400 pieces Bandano^s.
L ' Willing; y Francis.
January 36 tt&f
3 —
TO BE SOLD,
That Neat and Convenient House>
WHEREIN th. so fcriber now lives. There are lour •
rooms on a floor : the house is two stories high
5 with a good garret above : under the whole is an excell
-8 ent cellar, with a dry well, in whicl? ' 8 a convenient
j framed chamber f«r preserving meat, butter, &c. in warm
y ' weather. Attached to the house is a Stable for three
horf«, hay-los , granary, and carriage-house, a wood
-0 yard paved with Hone, and a garden with foil of a fine
3 quality. An iridifputable title will be made to the pur
-2 chafer. For farther-particulars apply to the subscriber in
2 Princeton, or. in her abl'ence to Thomas U. Johnson, tfq.
or the rev. SamHel S. Smith.
y ANN WITHER-POON.
5 PriilcctOß, Aug 24. sUwrO
o ■
Plans of the city ot Philadelphia,
r Including the Northekn Libekii t s and diflriA of
SoUThWAR K ,
Publilhed, and fold hy
' BENJAMIN DAVIES,
* No. 68, High street,
" ( Price one dollar.)
h THIS plan is 16 inche fqoare, and has been enj
graved by one of the tirft artists In the city, from a lats
and accurate ftirvey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam«
rs phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
K , city, its population, trade, government, &c.
n July tuf&ftf
A Handsome, well-Droltt
;; SADDLE TORSE,
For Sale, enquire at the Contftogo Stable's, the owner
5 having no life for hint.
Aug. a* tEL&fJVfTHE PUBLIC £- !
IS hereby cautioned not to trull any-pcrfon or "'
persons on my account, under any pretext whatever, nsl '
shall not pay such debts as may have been, or hereafter p--
Diay be contracted without my knowledge.
THOMAS HOGGARD.
Sept. 13. It&f 3
pui
sirs
ror Sale, dec
a large elegant and well finished dit
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOT of GROUND thereunto belonging, •
the well fide of Third-street, near Union-street
containing in front 32 feet, and in depth too feet, to an
• alley leading into Union-flrcet. The house is 32 feet front $c,
and 50 feet ; the fevoral rooms contained in it arc
large, commodious, and completely finilhcd; the two fit ft
dories are each 13 feet high; there are 20 mahogany
doors in the house ; a geometrical staircase, with mahoga
ny rails and a gsod Iky-light. The kitchen is in the cell- ~
ar, which is spacious and convenient, and finilhed with an
oven, ftew-koles and pantries, a servants' hall and large
wine-collar adjoiking the kitchen.' in front of which is an
area in which there i* a pump The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat three-Jlory
brick house, on the north fide of Union-street, contain- —
ing 30 feet front by 40 feet deep; the lower part of which
is at present occupied as a compting-houfe, and the upper
part divided into wall-finilhed large chambers. This house
_ may at a small Cxpenfe be converted iirto a convenient
dwelling : The street dobr is very handsome, and the front
and back have Venetian window-lhutters. Adjoining the
last house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are erected
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good coach
honlc and flable6 finilhed equal (or nearly so) with any in f
the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
in depth on the weft fids of said alley 52 feet. There are
good cellars unde« the whole of the buildings, and a wine
room over part of the liable, with a hay-loft over the re
tnainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD BONSaLL & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Pear
t'U( ftreeti.
6ih month 24th, 1796.
FOR SA L E,
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED r IVIT TENH AM, situate in the
townlhip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 1-4 miles from Phiiad-Iplria, and half a mile from the
new Wellern road 1 containing 230 acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of thi firft quality. There are
011 the premises a good two story briclt house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; 2 large frame barn, llablcs,
and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and Hone,
fpring-haufe ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clover,, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob HarmarJ
defeated j and offered for fa!c by
Mordecai Lewis,
Oil. 9. tt&l" Surviving Executor.
Lottery and Broker's Office,
A r o. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 4, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
th* late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and t giftering, for
the City of Walhington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public Schftol Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber foKcits the application of the public
and his friends, who wilh to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills 6f Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
See. or to obtain money pn deposit of property.
Wm. Blackbun.
, Philadelphia, August 18, 1796. * mth
Fo* R SALE. ~
A PLANTATION, •
ABOUT 12 miles from this City, situate in Abir«g
ton Township, Montgomery-County ; containing
70 acres, a new stone house, two stories high, 2 rooms on a
floor,'fire places in each, a iftonc kitchen and stone spring
boti!e, over an excellent spring of water, a barn, (tables,
sheds, barracks, Bcc. A. large apple orchard, and a variety of
other fruit, about 12 acres of good meadow weil watered,
and wood fuftjeient for fire, and fencing the place. PofTclß
on may be had the ift of April next. Property in this city
wilVbe taken in exchange, or MORRIS and
Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, September 13, 1796. ttftf
Lands of the United* States
Treasury Department, Augujl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN .pursuance of an a 5: of Congress, pilled on the lß|h
day of May, 1796, entitled "Aa aft providing" for
the file of the lands of the United .States, in the Territo
ry north weft of theriver Ohio, 2nd above the ntouth of
Kentucky river," that the fc&ions or lots of land defcri-.
bed in the annexed schedule.lying in the seven ranges of
townlbips, which were surveyed in pnrfuance of an ordi
nance of Congrefs,paffed on the twentieth day of May,
in the year one thouflnd seven hundred and eighty-five,
will be exposed for sale at Public vendue, in the town oi
Fittlbargh in Pennsylvania. on the twenty-fourth day of
October next, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the firft day ofDeceraber eal'uing, unless the said lots Ihall
be sooner fold, in the manner, and on the terms and con.
ditions herein after mentioned, to wit:
I ft. The said fe%9ious or lots shall be fold under the di
refliou as the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter
ritory, and such person as the Preliuent of the United
States raayfpecially appoint for that purpose.
2d. I'he said feilions or lots (hall be fold to'the htghr&
bid (/er, but no sale can be made for less than two dollars
fcr acre of th« qijantity of land contained in such lot or
|:islion.
3. The highest bidder as before mentioned, niuft depo
sit at the time «f sale, one twentieth part <ft r the pure!,afe
money, in the hands of such person as the President of the
United States lha'l appoint to attend thefales for that pur
pose, which will befi.rfcited, if a moiety of the fuai bid,
including the said twentieth prtrt, shall not be paid witlun
thirtydays from thetime of sale.
4th. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchase money
in the manner before mentioned, the purchaser will be
entitled to one yearcredit for the remaining moiety;,
an< (hall receive from the Governor er Secretary of the
\Veftern Territory, end the person who (hall he appointed
by the President of the United States, to dircd tlw (ales,a
certificate describing tha lot or feiii ion purchafed,and de
rlaring thefum paid on account, the balance remaining due,
the time whof.fuch balance becomes payable, and that
tk whele l«nd therein jnentUdsed ,wiil be forfeited, if the
'
fall balance Is not then paid ; but if the l»4 toUocc fl»»U
■be duly difchargcd.by paying th« fame to the I reafurer ot
tlie United States, the purchaser or hts a!figncr: or other
. legal rcprefentativc, fcall be entitled to a. patent for the
said lands, oil his producing to the Secretary of State a re
ceipt for such balance endorfedf upon the certificate. But
if any purchaser (hall make payment of the whole of the .
purchase money, at the time when the payment of the J
tirft moiety is dire&ed to be made, he will be entitled to a
■ deduction of ten per ctntum on the part for which a ere
dit is authorized to be given; an>l his patent shall- be un-
mediately ilTued. i del
Given under my hand at Philadelphia, the day ana
year above mentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT, ° r '
Secretary as the Treasury
1 j h<
t Schedule of feSions of town/hips, or fradiqnal parts da
2 oftoionthfa, to be fold at Pitifhurgh, in pur fiance un
1 ' of the 6th fawn of an ad of Congress, passed on qu
the 18th day of May, 17 9s.
' 7 , J hii
5I•• S • i
J 8 i J s % t I % V
d p Jo £ M '«
r a I gjjg £ ch
ift RangS. 6tUTownfhip. 6th RAnGf. St
I ill Townlhip. Xaia 640 eacli ift Townlhip.
■ e 28 .? 65 14 640 17 320 th
19 156 95 17220640 each •18 s ,o
t 30 150 75 25836 640 each 41 850
e 34 240 96 BthTownfhip. 156 40
j. 3J a ;? 6 640 each 3314 64oeach 23 417
2d Townlhip 17 a2O 640 each g4 640 ji,
n . 19 140 23 640 27 151 80 b(
d 20 170 70 25330 64ceach 48a3o64oeach t ; (
e 21 185 640 each 33 f 8 . p.
e 22 230 lothTownfnip. 34236 64o|each p ;
15 488 80 ia2 (640 each 2d Township. th
26227 (s4°each sai4'u4oeach 1 re 6 Ih
48 560 17&2cj640 each 2 44a di
i' 29 5Ji 60 23336)640 each 3 44 g er
30 564 i2th!Town(hip. 4 w
31-36 640 each iai4 64c each j ti
4thTown(hip. 172,20 640 each 6 471 I 3'
19 64 238361640 each 7 14 0 C 1;
*S 6 it A 4 th Range. 8214640 each P
26 38760 lftTown(hi i7«o 640 each
27 36 n & 5,6 »i 13640 each
=- 3 iaj2 64oeach '* « 5 3 dToWhip.
33 616 30 640 1
I- 34 445 !° 34 1 478
e 'it j 35".t6 each 3 486
• s r, ■ 2dTown(hip. 4 4,4 ®
II jthl ownfliip. , 2 £ 5 Jo 4fu
6 139 10 326 640 ervch 6 - 510 . tb
c> 12 479 30 s *l 0 7 ai 4 «4oeich
17 304 15 „ J 17220 6410 eich
y « 3 ° 9"i 4o each *3»36 6 4 o'«ch
-e »3 450 >5 y , sth 1 ownfhip.
i- >4 640 3 635 , , jg t
, \l 111 17 a2O 640 each 4 5 16 :
1 u o 5 4 0 >??ch 3 534
lie, I 3dTownfhip. 4 -540 1
_ lai4 64oeach j
- -4d Range, fjiid 64c:each 6 , . '< L
® ift Township. 13236 6 4 o|each 7314640 each
28 I 7I 20 s th'Townlhip. 'Two « 4 o each
34 I 6153 I*l464^each 64c each
3d Townlhip. r 7 a2O 6 4 o}each »» Townlhip.
- 24826 640 each 23836 640 each 1 5
28 499 J6 ?thTownfhip. 1 s'* 40
29 640 ia4 6 4 !»[cach 3 5 ' 6
. a 3*833 640 each 587 64o|each 4 5=5 60
r 4thTown(hip. 12213 64c each | 3
11 26 40 isaio 640 each ° ; aI
or 1* 397 S° 25 640 7114640 each
;s , J 3 51 5° 30836640 each 17 a2c 640 each
re *5 2 " -? 0 9th 1 ownlhip. 4 3 a 36 640 each
,a 16 259 20 1 a 14[640)each Townfliip,'-
V- 17 5 J 4 I?a20 640 each Ia 14 640 each
or 18 64c 23a36 640 each I 7 ai ° 640jeach
19 63 f . nth Townlhip. 23236 640 each
lie 40 584 80 rai4 6 4 o|each 1 ownmip.
k, 41 636 21 I7a2o64oeach 181464c,each
Is, 42a3664o|eaah 23a36640each I7 a >''^4o l eßch
sthT«wnlhip. i3thTown(hip. 23836 640 each
5 636 iai4 6 4 o|each i3 t n~ own " uP
-6a7 64c each i7220640each ial 4 '>4c|each
»3a2j 64c each 23336 64c(each each
27218 64c each f 5 "" 23a36 6 4 oe2ch
3223664 c|b s ftT? lithTownlhip.
• 7thTownlhip. rownfhip. ja^^olcach
3 16401 274 40 i7a2o!64o!each
g" BthTownftiip 5,2 87 3° 23 236,640|each
li s 640 each *3 4»7 50 7 » h
4 61" , "6 " (ft Townlhip.
eSj 7a 14 040 cach 301 41 20
of 17220640 each J 394 j()
"?bT™Xp idTowsfhip.
as « 640 32 1584 86 4 625
1 j 111 30 33136 64c each 5»6 640 each
, ,/ , ,1 2dTownfhip. 9 2 9^
13*14 64c each ,8040 ioai2 640 each
19220 640 each 40 I/} , 0
23236 640 each 3 430 I7al g S^otac h
3dR A T G B. 5 4i6 J 9 *4
sd Townlhip. 6 464 80 40 1 96
15 640 7 250 23224 640 each
I'" 16 600 8 618 4 5 i ßc
20 557 5° 9214640 each 26337 640 eich
' f 21322 640 each 17 420(640 each 4'hTownlhip.
:ri- a 3 609 23 236|6401tach 18141640 each
lo s? 3J23? 640 each 4th l'ownlhip. l7 i^c |64oeach
di- 3dTownihip. iai4 640 each a 3 a 36 64o|each
ayj 9 188 60 17140 64ceach 6thTownfhip.
ve, 10 344 23836 64oeach 18141640 each
oi 11 t6i 6thTownfhip. I7 aa °i"4o each
of 12 152 iai 4 64oleach 23836 640 each
ntil 14 20250 1722064cLach | BthT°wnlhip.
tiall is 630 13236 64o(each | 1214 64c each
on. l6aiS 640 each BthTownihip. I*7 a 2c 640 each
19 217 jo iai4[64o|each j x 3 a 36 640 each
di- 40 616 7j 17 820164 c each jlothTov.-nlhip.
;er- 41236 640'tich 23a.'56|640|eacli I la *4p^OjMich
ited 4thTownlhip. lothTownfhip. |640.-2ch
! i?o iai4|64oleach | 4 3 a 36l64o|each
~ a a 544 ■ 1714 c 640 each i2thTownlhip.
' 3 ito 23 836{64o!each | 1 aMj^r.each
r 4 450 12thTownlhip. P4O each
J 12c j I»l4j64c<eßch 1 3asf|6
Use 6 640 17-12C1640 each M'hTownfhip.
fth' ' 563 . 23a36j64o]each iai4|64c|each
r - ' Sa 9 64c each'i4thlownlhip. I 1? 6 4o[each
bid, 10 54c80 iat4j64ojeach 64c,each
it tun' 11 5»9 70 l7a4c|64oieach Townlhip. |
I2ai4 640 each 23aj6«64cjc2ch iai4 64ojeach !
oney 17x2c 175120 640 each !
Ibe 13136 64o|eachl i 23236 640 leach
"y; note.
inted ° l L rf in tht t"wnlhipj be- 1
1«I ' fT f the LctE " r «ved by the
4 S 5f U° ted States and also of those formerly fold - The a £ -
•due l St y^ r 'Py' t> . ctat 1 A * feygal townfhirs or fraSionfl
,due wtsof towrulhip., hive been afemained bv actual fur
ifthe I '' T lntlt - re 'V D Io« or iVttior.s, have
, no Oiiicrwiwaiceruiued than by calcabuop.
Lands of the United States.
Treasury Department,
Auguji 8, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby given, c
[TN purfuancean ad of Congress psfad on the ißt 1 h
I X of May, T7')6, entitled « an aA providing « for
the We of Ac I ands of the United States, .a the tcrrttory ;
north-weft ol the river Ohio, and above «« the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the Quarter 'lowaihips o I land
delcribed in the annexed schedule, lying m. the even ang- -
es of tovvuflvips whieh were furveyod in pursuance of an
of Con-refs, passed on the twentieth day of
until the tenth Jay of F«br»ary eufumg.. unless .he Ui
quarter townlhips fhattbe foor.ar fold, m the manner and
on the terras and conditions hercmafter monti.'jrLd viz
i<v The raid quarter towafhips lhall be foul to
highest bidder, but no file can '- made for less than two .
dollar; per acre of the quantity of land contained m such
j ' ]X ' ? ' 1 /" V bidder as before mentioned,.maft de
posit a* the time of sale, One twentieth pcirt -of t.ie pur
chase money, in the hands of the Treasurer of the United
State., which will be forfeited if a moiety of the sum b.J,
including the laid twentieth part, ftia.l notba paid within
thirty d.'vs from the time of sale.
1 id Upon payment of a moiety of tnc parchafc-mO
-in the manner the pufchaier wi.l
be entitled to one year's credit'for the remaining moiety ;
I and fliall receive a certificate deferring the quarter town
(hip purchased, and declaring the sum pai 1 on account,
the balance remaining due, the time when such balance
becomes payable, and that the whole Land therem men
tioned will be- forfeited, if the fevd balance is not then
I Dai I • but if the said balance-shall be duly difc,urged, by
paying, the fame to the Treasurer of the United States,
the pur chafe, or his afTigneeor other legal reprcfti.tative,
fhali be entitled, to a patent for the said land, on his pro-
I ducine to the Secretary of State a receipt for -uc'i balance,
endorfedupon the certifrcate. But if any purchaser (hall
I make payment of the whole of th« purch.ife-money at the
time when the payment of the fitft moisty is dirafted to
I be made, he will be entitled to a deduction often per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to be
! given ; and his patent fliall be immediately issued.
I GIVKN "under n»y hand at Philadelphia, the day
and year abovementioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
SC HEDULE
I Of Quarter-Townflups to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur-
I fuance of the 6th fe&ion of an afl of Congrcfe passed on
I the ißth day of May, 1796.
I ,00.
d. .s* " £
& •- _3 ei 3
be -£ <* • o
= c r u- 9*
« > 5 O
I ei o t ° =; u
L-. r+ w m
(m *■ 1- n a
jo h- y c
\J° r 2 .5
55 js " -a -a
20 sJ
2 Sooth East 5120
North East 5120
South WeCt 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
—I- —3— —5 — SuutkJEaii 211 ; |
Nonh East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Well 5120
20,480
I South East 512 a
North East 5 120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120 I
20,480
9 South East 5120
I North East 5 120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
20^80
II South Eafi j 120
I North East 5 120
South Well j 120
i , North Wed 5120
20,480
I 4 4 South Ea(i< 5120
North East 5120
South Weft
5 120
North Weft 5120
'20,480
J 6 South East j 120
I North East 5 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
; —■ — 20,480
8 South East 5 120
North East 5120
South Weft 512° I
North Weft 5 12°
20,480
I 10 South East 5120
North East 5120
j Sonth Weft| 5120;
North Weft!
5 120
j 20^480
I 12 South East. .5120
North Eaft | 5120
South Weill 5120
North Weft! 512 a
I I 20,480 ,
I 5 3 (South East 4602
North East 4654
South Welt 5120
North Weft 5 120
I 19,496
I 5 Sdtfth East 5120
j North East 5120
South Weft 5120
I North Weft 5120
[20,480
J 7 South East 5120
jNorth East 5120.
J (South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
be* I 20,480
the I 69 |South East 5120
ag T J North East 5120
fur- jSotfth Weft 5120
tave j jNorth Weft 1 5120 j
« I— —; * 20,4^0
i i
i I t~Ti
■U -3 ! . S e
<— I a 5
r .2* 1 > 'S r°
«*i. <a I ,» « ?\] ■
• s H v- y -. ■
h *«- 4 r, -c '->
OS L. J c «
ir « < 5-
~ o r< r £ i- -
Is 5i •- — ;
> f 2 _« t
1 a t2*
r« __ | — ... —. . ... ■ . .
'« 5 ii South Ea-fiiS i zo 4
»* North East JI2O !
South Weft ; i 20
r h ' North Well 5 120
y , I » 20,480
iii 13 jSouth East 5120 i
id jNoith East j 120
z ISou'ih Weft 5120:
North Weft 5 I 2o|
VQ C
cll " 1 *0,480
6 4 South Eail 4630']
te- Noith Eafi 4620]
,r " South Waft 51*0 ' , ?;?
. e ; 1 North Weft 5 12a)
111}
.in : '9>4Qo
6 South East 47301 >
if- [Nfyrth EaR 4.7 15 j
South Wellj; 1 zoj
J n l iNarth Well 5120,
nt, _ _ j 19.695
ice |i 8 South East 5 120,
;n ~ !s L North East 5120! '! .
* n % South Wtft 5Y201
' North Weftj s i2Q
\c, I —— 201480
ro- 10 iSouth Eaft 5120
lCe > Nocth Eali 51 20
f 1 South Weft 51 zo
' tQ if" North Weil j 120
per ! 20,480
be 12 South Eaftsi2c"
North Eaftyl2o
■ South Weft 5 1 jo
North Wtil ,5 120
20,480 ,
14 South Eats y 120
North Eaftsl2o
ur-
South Wtfiy i2o
on Nonh Weft 5 120
• 20,480
s= 7 3 South Ea!!ji2o
No.th East j! 20
') ' South Well Jl2O
North Weft y 120
350,480
5 South East yi2o
North Eafl 5120
South Wei y / 20
North Wcjl y 120
1 40,480
7 South East 5 120!
North Ea't 5 1 20!
South Weil 5 1 201
North Weft 5 1 201
-\ 20,480
9 South East; 120!
North East y I 201 _ j
South Wen JTiop
North Weft ,-120
- 1 20,480
•11 South East ;i2oj
North Eafl 5 120:
South Weft y 120!
North Weft y1 20!
30,480
13 South Eaf $123
, North East 5 12C
South We)! j 120 *
North Well y 120 1
20,480
15 South Eaf, yi2e
4 North Eaf. ;1 20
South Weft Jl2O
North Wef 5120
—- 20,480
NOTE.
THE quantities of Lands in the feveraltownlhip' be
fore mentioned,are exclusive of the Se&ions reserved b/
the United States. The aggregate quantities i» the seve
ral townlhips, have been a<sh«l survey ; but
the quantities in the quarter townlhips, have been no
otherwise ascertained than by calculation.
Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
N°. I. _ _
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has ivthoriM
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fit thoulana,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpoft cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, froxi th o t
tomacto theEaflern Branch Harbour.
The following is the SCHEME ©f No. I.
Viz 'I Prize of <&0,000 dollars, zocco
I ditto io,coo ro,oco
7 last drawn 3s)COO
Tickcts,cach \
6 ditto 1,000 6,0c0
to ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 130 a ,000
■SS ditto S°
5750 ditto xx 69,00!!
To be raised for the Canal, 26,250
jSjO Prizes, r75.000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 17J,000
The ConimiCTioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid ad lor the punctual payment of
■the prizes.
The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as (oon as tl* Tickcts are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finilhed, shall be considered aa i°r
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIKL CARROLL, ofV>
LEWIS DEBLOJS,
GEORGE WALKER,
. Wh. m.duncanson,
THOMAS LAW, .
JAMES BARRY. *
City of WaOiingtOH, Feb. 11. S
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NOi
—No, 119 —
CKES KST-S|tE£T,
IPviee E-ght Dollars per Annum.]