.
of the BnttetJ States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
n SATURDAT EVENING, JULT 30, 5706. ! X '
r LITTLE TOHN. I DUTY ON CARRIAGES. , To be Let,
l T or Boston,
THE SCHOONEfc
\jptaim corny,
T TTILL fail on SuJoday next. For freight or ap
\\ ply to J
Edward Stow, j un. %
No. 761 Nojth Front-tlreet- fc)
July ** : . ■ t !L. a
U ToTKAMBURGH, •
JOHN, ,
"Rosdrt Jac*son, Mafjer, ft
fJrlYcr To fail in fifteen days, ,5
two-thirds of hrr ear 8° A
• . J V t0 ~<> on hqard, Fojr. ftfMjft or paflage ai
-
No. »4 Walnut-fttcet.
• §6eotf
n —.
""For Freight,
I • THE BRIO ' n
MV SWAN, £
Binjamin GLASIER, Mitflfr, A ,
TOROM Liverpool. Nowdifcharging at P. Care's wharf,
rani Will immedUt«! T af^w«d s take for
NEWBURY PORT anpB.OSTQN-
To fail S n«t week. For freight or parage, apply to
capt. 6lafier, onboard, or to ,
Isaac Harvey, jun. \
'' No. ? South Water Street. ■-*
' §lw «
7 mo. iy .. fe
Advcrtiiement.
wiilbe £-« — -*
tion
The new ship A,
MWW XJUHTHPN 310 ton j, with her
masts and spars as delivered hy
iSe Mrpent". judges have pronounced that lhe
is a faU«Wfr built v e®l» of g oGtl And well fcar ° ntd
ia»rfial«. one thousand dollars will beßequired of the
purchafcr at the time of fait, and for "the remainder' a
credit will be given of 5, 6, 9, and 11 ipontbs, the pay
mentsto be (ecured by notes negotiable at thp Bank or
Alexandria, with approved endorsers.
JOHti MANDEVILLE, Jr. for Ite
GEORGiE CLEMERSTON, % V
creditors of Jn*. J
ELISHA C. DlCs.' | V c °-
ij d 130 th.
For Barbados, '
The Brigantine
F A ivi 5, j.
Francis Knox, M after, jn
TTas good accommodations for pas-
JfjL fencers, and is eipefite (jf to fail on
Thursday next For freight of a few barrels or passage, o]
I S
" For Sale, Freight, or Charter,
The Scho»ner
» ANGELICA,
hundred ants twenty tons burthen— ,
jMWW* *' fi x months old, a staunch, faithfally
builtj faft-fiiling vessel, handfomcfy finiftied off, and well
fqund in every particular. ?pr. terms apply to .
B. RHODE 9, ;
On board said schooner, lying at Bickley and fiohlen's ,
wharf, the firft above Market street.
WHERE THERE ARK TOR SALE,
A few half-bbls. Prime Mess Beef.
July 14 §
For Sale or Charter, *
T^ E SNOW
BOSTON,
BURXHEN about 1000 sJ)ls. of flour—fee may be lent
to sea at a small expence, her fails and rigging being in
VcrV good order—apply to
Janief CatfflbeU, c«f.
George i/fltinwr.
A W I 2 9>. 5_ ;
**r»n . . »«'» *•»-♦»"* j
For ?ale,
Or for Charter to the Weft-Indies,
c e'r k s,
JgSfiPt Philadelphia Built,
/"\f Li'vo'Oak and Red Qedar, burthen aljout 3500 bar-
U rels, now discharging a:t Latimer's wbaVf! llus vrf
fel is in excellent repair, well fcrtiud»and will bear 4 tho
rougli examination, andai soon as discharged will 1 be re'a*
4y to take in a cargo. For terms apply to
John Vaughan.
J«ily 28 §
CABLES,
F»?m 16 to 9 i inches, for sale by
Jeremiah Warder,
July if 5 No ia northThird-ftreet.
. «"
Landing
From on board the Nancy, William Belcher, mas
ter, from BourJeaux, a cargo, consisting of—
360 HH«!srCHOICE CLARET,
232 Cases of 24 bottles each CLARET,
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and
i TRUNK of RIBBONS,
For Sale by
% Coppingjei.
July 23. dtf.
Just arrived,
220 boxes be ft Claret,
Cenlaiuing twojdozen each, for sale, Wholesale tc Retail, by
William Sheaff,
*d 6 July 2c. N©, i6JS Hi^h-itreet.
Schooner LITTLE JOHN.
FOR SALE,
THE LITTLF. JOHN, 1
CAPTAIN BOYD, of *
—» \ BOUT 18 months old, a very fact a^ce
jEjS&cV J\ failing veflel, on Virginia Pilot boat Pj* e
okßßß*l plan, now laying at South street wharf,
near 900 barrels, is ready to take
a cargo ; a liberal treciit will be ■
For Sale,
The Schooner
Dispatch,
"RURTHEN aV>ut twelve hundred barrels,
3fss££23-I} a staunch, good vessel, t»»'o years eld, is
newly sheathed, and in compleat order t» proceed •» a
voyage^—For terms apply to
Joseph Anthony Ss* Co.
July ly. 4t.
Just
In the ship Molly, John Frost, Matter, from Liverpool,
5000 Buftiels Best fine ftoved SALT, Fot
600 Bushels HOUSE COAL,
And «18 Crates of QUEENS WARE affortcri.,
r , FOR SALE BY ?
Philip Nicklin & Co. ™
M n. B. THE SAID Ca.
jfefcv Ship MOLLY, ® f J
TS for SALE or CHARTER, she boi
l years old, Philadelphia built, of wh;ie ff{l
oak, wi well faked and carries about 4*o© Barrel® of Fiour.
For terms apply as above.
t 1 dtf •?, t i
July 23 r"
— ■ ■ «— '■ • —— 1 tuc
This Day commenced Leading,
At tyiflfins wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lncy and Sloop I ii ct
St, Jago, from 6t. Jago de Cuba—con Citing of J q^ut
WhW and Brown Box SUGAR. I at t
r MOLASSES, of an excellent quality. I fuc
y COFFEE.
' HIOES and HONEjY. Also,
e For Sale or Charter. I ,
a The brig LUCY, I?h
\ flout, strong vessel, will carry a- | _
boutizoo barrels, and may go to I
sea with a very small erpenfe.
y The abov. W»1 be fold for cash or approved notes. lln
Samud Emery, {
0. No. 64, south Seeond-fl/eet.
_ July 17. 79*- iL- j
Take Notice, k
rriHAT the Subscriber intends to mue applica- j
1 tion for '\he renewal of a Certificate, No. i6b9, I
for 4000 dollars, dated the 14th December, 179?, bearing
, interest at 5 i per cent, from ift January, 179 6 . \
name of David Dunderdale & Co. of Leeds, in Yerk- I
shire, merchants. The fame isfuppofed to have been lolt
e ' on its way to New York, under cover to Bleecker &
\tarch? of that'placc, onthe lSth of January lad- •
1\ Thomas M'Euen. | T
Philadelphia, »2djune, 1796. § w
Wm. HOLDERNESSE, U
i N«. 76 High Street, j
~ TTAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
i ',* 1 rt the East Indies, a well felccSed assortment of Silk I -
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdashery Goods; which I
hi Witt fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms; I
'AMONGST WHICH ARE, I
f s I Some fine India muslins embfoideted with gold and fllver I .
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto 1 R
ffio do do do Handkerchiefs w
Some extra black taffeties.luteftrings and colored Pcrfians I
Bantfano Handkerchiefs | —
— liorig and short Nankeens It!
* : English Mantuas of the firft quality
Damask table linen and napkins, very fine I _
Silk Hosiery, an elegant aifortmsnt I g
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas —green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth I j-
French cambrics, very fine
ait Irish Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 5 s I
Public Notice is given, \ ...< n
rO the merchants and others concerned in the shipping I '»
atState-Ifland, under quarantine, that a Cart Will I
attend every ni6rning, ftindays excepted, from nine to I
J ten o'cUck, at the Health office, No. 31 Walnut-street, to I
— convey provisions or other Refrelhments to the Hospital, I -
and for theufeof thecrews. . :-/cE I
It is expeiled that the Bags, Bafeets, or other packag- I r
et With fup'plies, will be wi'th th« riarrte of the vy- I
fel and captain they are intended for, to prevent mift«kes I v
at delivery. I
By order of the Board of Heahh for the port of Phila- I
delphla, LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH, Chairman. 1-
,a r - J ul y '3 §
L f : THE SALE OF j
C *K The TOWN, and OUT LOTS of the TOWN?
6F ERIE, WATERFORD, FRANKLIN
and WARREN
§ A DVE RTISED for sale by the State Agents, in the Pfiila- I 1
—" ft delphia Gazette and Umverfal Daily Advertiser, to be I
Sold in the City of Philadelphia ; will commence at the City I
Tavern or Coffjcc-Houfe in Second-btreet, in the said cfity, on I
Monday the 23th dav of July inft. tft 7 o'cloek in the even- I
becontinued by adjournment from day today, from, I
12 o'clock at noon, until tW6 : o'clock, and frdm 7 until 9 1
o'clock in the evening, until the whole of the said LOTS and I
____ OUT LOTS are difpoied of.. The conditions of sale will be I
made known, and the plana «f the said LOlS'and OUT J
LOT S be shewn at the time and place of sale. I
By order of William Irvine, Andrew Ellictt and George PVtlfon I
nai- Agent.. EDWARD FOX, Auctioneer. I
July «a. . j
ales of India Goods.
Tie Cargo of ;tbslhip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal- I
cutta and Bengal,
consisting or
A Large and general afTortment of Bengal and Madras I
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG wuicu ARE 1
tf. A variety fine worked arid plain Mujlins,
' Doreas, X&i, ' Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, -
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
» ' " (For Sale by
! ,by Willings Ssf Francis, 1
' No. 21 Penn Street,
et. June t 5 I
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given, sit * t
THAT agreeably to an aft of Congtels of the United j f)ew _
Stateaof America, passed at Philadelphia, the 28th uav
of Mav, i?g6 ; laying duii'-s on Carriages, for trie convey-j
aree of ptrions, and repeaiilhe tormer acl» for thai yur- |
pose. —ibPL cVtere lhail be levied, collected and paifi, upoh Ju
a'l cm r . J r the conveyance of .perlons, which lhall be I —
krpt by or for any perfou, sot his or her own use, m to lit
out tu>liift,oi wwdic con eying of passengers, inefcveral cu- |
ti« liesfodoA'iun, 10 wit. \
ft* * - doh. M - 1 £\ r
* . Mp'vrv everv vTlianat, I % liWWii -ni Mell
>•. ; upon eveiy PHI Chanot, a dols.- j flow.
ujjon Port Chaise, 12 ciols. Pc
es upon every Phacon, with or wiihouttnp, gaols J •
upon every CoaChce, 9 dols. 1
„ j' upon other Cirnajjei, having^panne/ work above, J
with blirids glalTes or cuitains, 9 dols. ' 1
upon four wluel canlages, hWiag framed aa *#
top>with ltc:l fp!U\gß, 6 riols. J
upon four wheel iop Carnages, with wooden or iroo j
springs orjatks, 3 dols. I t^e j
upon curricle® vith to|)s, 3 dols. 1 y,
upon ehaifea with tops, 3 dolt. v I T O]
upon chairs w th tops, 3 dols.
ypon (ulkies with tops, 3 dols. . A
upon other two wheel top Carriages, 3 dols.| J
upon two wbcel caniagei, with steel or iron springs, I
3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 ools. 1
upon every four wheel carriage, having fraimd polls I
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols. j
The Cdteftors of tie Revenue of the ftril furvev of the j
Diftriftof Pcnnfylvana, wxii attend daily 1 , urtiUtne 30th day I
of September next, for the purpose of receiving ihe duties on I
Carriages, at No. 117,10 Race or Saffafrai street, in the City | a
of Philadelphia, at che house of Dariid S. Cj.air, Efq »n the 1
County of Montgomery ; and at iht houfc of Abraham Du- \
hois, Ej&j. in the Co-auty of Bucks; of wlrieh ali pirfons pol I £]
feffed flf 'iudi Carriages are desired to take ootree. J
Notice is also given, *£■
TO all retail driers i» Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri- I *
( '"re w a I hlg]
fiefs quantity, or in less Quantities (han 30 gallons—and one I brc;
1 I licence for carrying 00 die business of letailmg Spirituous li- I ed
j.qaors in 4efsquautities than eo gallons, at the lame time and I tur<
j'at the fame places, by the officers legally authoiized to grant I 'Sea
I such licences. " 1 Cat
1; J WILLIAM NICHOLS, 1 C o?i
infpeflor of the Revenue of th« fijft survey I j
of the dilfriftof Pennf;lvania. J j
I Office of Itrfpefiion, at ) 3° C I —
rPhiladtlphia, aift July, 1796 J
Just Arrived, J
j In the Snow Bofjon, JamesKirkpatrick, master from Li- 1
verpool, J Co
I 5000 Bafhels SALT ; j 1
100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; and
I An AJfortment of SHIP CHANDLERY ; jma
FOR SAL E I t },
I On board, at l'ine-fircet wharf.——Apply to I tie
fames Campbell, or of
IJ George Latimer. I tb
: 1 April 19. $ Ikn
c 3* N O X I C E. air
There-will .oitl «Mt '1 burfday the 4th of Ajieruft, at 1'
ihcMtfclnHts.' cotiee houle, in Second street, j
One thousand shares of the ltock of t h,
the North America Land Company. P C J
If not previouily difjioftd of. ! p e
Philadelphia, 20th July. dts J
d - CO
TAKE NOTICE,
application will be made for the renewal of J aiS
•r Jt the following certificates, illhed by Jdfeph Noiirfe, ] j
Register of the Treifiiry, in th- namt of Roger Gril | ; _
wold, Esq., of Norwich, Conned icut—
is I 1 certfficate, fix per cent domeitic flock, No. 13,907 I
j —dated the 17thDecember, f i795, bearing interest from
the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65-100 dol- L
I 1 ditu, three per cent, domestic Hock, r.o. i0,68i 1
1 —dattd December 16, IW$, bearing'intereft from the 1 ™
1 firft day of Jaiiuiry, 179T, for 994 30-100 dollars.
1 1 ditto,,deferred stock, No. 9,166— dated the 17th j
[December, ljg 5, bearing interest from the firft Janti-1 T
I ary, 1801, for 798 83-100 dollars. I R
Said certificates are fuppofedto have been loft or %(
I flolen in this citv some time in December or Janua .y I
I
I I .. JOSEPH THOMAS,
t0 I No. J9, North Front-street. I
to I Philadelphia, July *1, >796- d6\v. J
it, I — —— —— 1 I r
. TO SE DISPOSED Of,
r- I 'T'HRtime of, a.strong, healthy NEGRO MAN, who I ei
J. I 1 hap from Bto 9 years to serve. is asquainted lai
es I with farming and hoilfe-'work.
I Enquire at this Of&e.
a " I July % 9
I — 1 ! " I •
A collection of Papers, i
j rvN the fobjed of kiliotis Fevers, prevalent in th.Uni
,n lij ted States for a few years pafl I 1
15 I Compiled by NOAH WEBSTER,
N I Is this day comfc to hand, price One Dollar. Sold by jt
W. YOUNG, MILLS & SON,
la- 1 Boakfellers and Stationers, No. 5 a Sccood-llrcet, the cor- j
Ke I - nsr o'f Chefnut-flreet. I
ity I July 19 I
FOR SALE,
™' I WINE, London particulir Madeira, 4 years old, j
in? I'% pit" I * anil hogsheads . j
b e I Claret, genuine old, «cases
UT I Gin, in pipes, from Holland
I Earthen Ware, in crates
'f m I Basket Salt, in hogsheads
• I Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
; j Bar I.< lcl r Red and white dry lead
I &eel, Tiermiri and RufTu, in barrels
1 Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas, J
, , I Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by
' al - THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
July l ? $
Iras I
Twenty Dollars Reward.
I TT TAS STOLEN, lafl evening, from the pasture of the I
J W subscriber.a black Rockingham GELDING, 15 j
I i-a hands high, has a star, and l'ome white under his I
I threat, (the part being formerly chafed) ;hasa leatherjon 1
I liiineck, the mime ori the rear fide, his foot-locks fretted I
I wifil a clog, and it a horse of much bone and size. Who- I
J ever secures him with the thief, shall have th j above re- I
1 ward, or for the Horfs alone a very generous compenfa- j
t. I tion JOHN LAWRENCE.
§ 1 J*ly 7 eo s w _
j To be Let,
A large convenient thret (lory Brick House, plcafant'v
! Gtuated, on the weft ii'Ve Second-Street, oppoiite to tie
I Mew-Market; liow in the oiajpatiju of Henry Cl)itij|r
' I Apply to
I William Bingham.
1 July 17. tt.
e j '
! For Sale,
j A Three <:ory BRICK HOUSt as,l hot, in Chefnut
1 jt\ lireet, between and Secp-id ts, in which
j Meffrv jwti it Co. ha we- for many years (and
I dow Jo) carried oil bulinefs.
I Polfefllon will be given in one month, Tooner.
1 • For terms apply to ~ WILLIAM uiiLL, or"
. J. HECTOR CALSRAITH.
J April 21. §
, | —
d
J 11ft Arrived
10 In tlje brig Betsey, from Jcrcniic, and for sale by
1 the fpbferiUers.
Forty thousand wt. of very prime Coffee
in hogflicads an J bags
I And, In the schooner Hope, from New Orleans.
BEgF
s ' CQTtON
IHOES and
d, j LOGWOOD.
Is. I A liberal credit will be given for Approved Note?.
Richard and James Potter.
oh J"'y 37- ritf
ht A Country Seat to be fold.
r I A "BOUT, seven acres and a half of land near the three
I xTI mile itone on the road leading ro Gray's gardens and
I extending with a gentle declivity from the faidroad to the
I river Schuylkill—on which are crt&ed, a convenient
r ;. I frame houte fultable for a tenant, a frame barn and ftahla,
1, j a large Brick House forty-eight feet front, two ftdnes
1 a j high, » very ele£aiitpia*i9 fronting the V?vir", tke .w"hole
ne I breadth of tlie house fopported with turned pillars, floor
h: I ed with cedar plank, commanding an extensive and pic
nd I tureftjue view of the Middle Bridge, Gray's Gardens, the
Hit I Seat of Wm. Hamilton," Ki'q. the Turnpike Road and
I Canal. The improvements are all new—and the ground
j conveniently divided and mclofed by new cedar fentes.
c y I For terms apply at No. 151 Market-ftrect. -
j 17 *Jt
War-Office, of the United States,
May 4th, 179 ').
I ' ■ 'HE following Rules, explanatory of thofc pubi'ilhed
I L the 15th February, 1 are to be obfervec. by alt
" liperfons entitled to Lands, in purfttneeof resolves of
1 Congress
I Every certificate of the acknowledgment of a deeu or
I power of attorney, erther before a notary public or other
I magiflrale, 'mtift, in addition to what is usual, set forth
j thu tiie ptrl'on making the acknowledgment it-known t*
I the notary or other magiflrate ; for which pc.rpofc words
I of the following import mutt be infected in the Certificate.
" And I do moreover certify that the faia A B making
| this acknowledgment has been for perlonally
* I isnown to me."
— I If the notary or other magiflrate has roafon to believe
I that he is th person he repitfents himfelf to be, he wit
I alio certify -t,
at I Audi ft he proof be made by a witnefsor witnelTesJi" or
r J Inm, which matter mnft be set forth in the certificate ; and
Of I thie notary public, or Other raagiflrate, before whom tjjj
Y I acknowledgment is made, mail also set forth that the Wit"
J' I neisorwitncfleshas or have been for upwards of
I perionally known to him.
3 I If a justice of the peace is employed, the clerk of the
I court of the corporation or county must certify that such
I person is a justice of the peace of the county or corpora-
I tion as the cafe may be, and that full faith is due to hit
|0f a£ts as such. JAMES M'HENRY,
r f e 1 Secretary of War.
jrii :
Mjheton and, James Humphreys,
■ ot n\ CONVEYANCERS,
10l- I T TAVE jemoved their office to No. 61, Walnut-street,
/o, 111 next door but two to the corner of Dsck-flreet,
the where aII'INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn at
l a moderate charge, with care, accuracy anddifpatch.—
th I Thi?y : likewise buy and fell Real Eflates upon comniif-
I fions, and procure Money upon Loan on good fecutity.—
lnu ' I The business of an ATTORNEY AT LAW
( RY PUBLIC is ilfo'tranfa<Sled at the said office as usual
; or [by • ASSHETON HUMPHREYS.
la : y I N. B. Good Notes difconnted.
July 5. ' ' '' eaSw
I Univexfity of Pcnnfylvania,
v. I - July 16, 1796,
I THE Summer Vacation will take place on Monday next,
I ' the j&b infl. and continue for Fou* weeks. —Thediffer.
who 1 ent Schoo<-» with the several Tutors will accordingly re*
inted I afTemblc on Monday, the 15th day of August.
By the Faculty, Wm, Rogers, Sec'y.
3 Washington Canal Lottery,
N°. 1.
I "IT WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
Uni- W the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
I two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
I a Canal through the City of Wafliingtoii, from the Po )
by 1 tomacto theEaflern Branch Hafuour.'
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
. cor . I Viz -I Prize of io;ooo dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
*. r&ST} '»»
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
, , I 10 ditto 400 4,000
s ° ' I SO ditto 100 a,OOO
55 ditto JO 1,750
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,256
I 5850 Prizes, ijsfloo
11650 Blanks, not twe to a prize.]
<7jOO Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
nvas, I 0- The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
I quired by the aforefaid a<ft for the punilual payment of
[D. I the prizes.
S I The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
I delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of Which timely
. I notice will b£ given.
Q • 1 Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
of the j drawing is finilhed, lhall be considered as relinquished for
I the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
'! J, ( Signed J NOtLEY YOUNG,
herton 1 DANIEL CARROLL, o/JX
Fretted LEWIS DEBLOIS,
who . 1 GEORGE WALKER,
vere . j Wm. M.DUNCANSQN,
ipenfa- j THOMAS LAW,
CE. j JAMES BARRY.
D4w ,1 City of Feb.. $,——s • gpwuvfia .»
from the American Daily Advertiser. j
Mcfli'J, Claypoole,
On perilling your paper of Monday, under the
s;ad of New-York, dated July 22d, I read with
•hat emotion which every philanthropic mind mud
el, the unwarrantable arrest of tw# citizens o|
-lie United States, named Davis and Martin. The '
C.nife of their being imptefie 1 was, they had neither 1
c -'documents to prove they were Americans '
their persons, which had much the refemblancft, 3
of iTk'n-of-wars-men, betrayed the officer into an *
who took them out of the ship Chatham, at
If an attivedifpofition had.been fhewri
by the persons who ft* duty it was, to procure an r
oith r.ttefled before Mr. Johnflonthe American Con 1
■t in London, certifying the two n*.*n in question v
' Ie Americans, and delivered in before the Regu
luting captain at that port, befoi-e they were fcnt
oown to the Nore, it would have been ftriiUy at
tended to. 'In reply to the latter part of the charge 1
>peaking of the non-attention to the certificates of
citizenlfup, 1 beg to contradidl, as far as has rela-
ted to myfelf, having commanded (hips many years,
and within two years lad pad in particular. I have
never loft a feainan who had a certificate of his ci
tizenlhip about him, but have met the most polite
treatment from officers of men of var and press
gangs in general. The diabolical pra&ice of ta
king meninto afervice, contrary to their inclination, ca
cannot be defended, but a service once established 1,1
so extensive as the navy of Great-Britain, requires mi
unjiift means to obtain men fuflicient to a'ufwer
their purpose, for those flarioncd in the Weft or
Ealt-indies efpepally. Mr. Johnfton does grant to
certificates where the sailors have lfl
none from their own country ; but to prevent their
being impreOTed, they can obtain qne by applying 1 U
to him, and the fee I have always ttnderftood was
an emolument to the cletks for theii extra trouble
attendant on that duty—and three weeks is long e- flt<
Jiough for tailors to be strolling in Wapping; they his
indeed generally contrive to part with their dollars in P r<
much Jess time, and after they have (hipped again tht
for their homeward paflage, the commander can col
and ought to fee his men protested, independant St:
of further expence, by a legal application to the A- wa
merivan Consul. Indeed, I accuse my brother ? rt "
commanders with negligence, for not feeing their
men in |<?:fefiion of certificates of citizenffiip, at the P m
time he pays them their month's advance, before
he fails from home. This 'would effe&ually keep tha
his crew togenheron an European voyage in parti- ancl
lar. My motive for noticing this ide'rtion of York P' ei
news, is no other than to declare truth and dete& " )a '
fallacy j for if opinions are formed by the seamen, ce "
that proteaions are useless, we fhsll find much dif- P ed
ficulty in procuring men to woik our fhipi, and untJ
those we may get at most extravagant wages. 1
J. B. J. alre
• . corr
For the Gazette of the United States. mai
— ' On t
HISTORICAL NOTICES
Of the Kingdom of Sardinia.
(CONTINUED )
To complete the Duke's misfortunes, the city of
Geneva, the foveieignty of which 4ie claimed, feizui
thia opportunity to aifart axvd rwoW
produced also that of the neighboring territories. The
Genevans boldly asserted their independence noain.t
the duke ; and by the afliftance of the Swiss canton of ® n S
Berne, were (inabled to defeat all his efforts. Taking m
advantage of his imbecillity, while overwhelmed by U
the armies of France, they also fcized all thecsftles and'
places of strength in the neighbourhood. The canton M
of Berne at the fame time conquered the Pais de Vaud.
The canton of Friburgh, too, although they had no r,
quarrel with .the duke, were unwilling to lose so favor
able an opportunity, and seized a considerable part of C
Charles's territory. Being still retained by the two P art '
cantons, these acquifitisns have become the most valu- hrigh
able part of their territory, and add considerably i 0 cloud
their power. t
The treachery of the marquis of Saluces was the
means oi restoring to Charles many towns in Pied
mout ; and this principality would have Seen re-cun- °° Nve
quered with the fame facility that is reqaifite to march E ai
through it, had not rhe governor of Fofiino detained
the Imperial army a month before that inconfidera'ole citize
place. Thui tiie treafoa of Saluces was checked. A peoph
truce for three mor.ihs ensued ; this stipulated that 'the so
each party fhoHld retain what they poflefTed. A truce w ;,h
for ten years followed, in 1535, by which Francis I t •
-wasfecured in poilefiinn of half the duke's dominions.
The Emperor itil) retained polTefiion of the other cities I
not ceded to the French, and the unfortunate duke 2 -
found himfelf fliut up in Nice, the only corner of 3.
which he kept pofTcfTion. He saw the reft divided be- I fence .
tween a powerful invader and the ally to whose protec
tion he had trullcd. I hus exhibiting a fad monument
of the imprudence of those who, by taking part in < .
the quarrel of mighty neighbors,.are frufhed and over
whelmed ifi the fliock. 7. '
In 1543, war having broken out afrefh, the duke of '
Savoy was befiegcd in Nite by the French, in conjunc- '"ay so]
tion with the Turkifli admiral BarbarolTa, who had and th
been joined by a French flett with a body of land fore- diffuf,-
es under the duke d'F.nguien. The town was gallant- •
Iy defended by Montfeit, a Savoyard gentleman, who
flood a general assault and rtpulfed the enemy, before
he retired into the caftie.. In that fort, situated on a '"Y '
rock, on which the enemy could make no impression, 11.
and H-hich could not be undermined, he held out i'o the frc
long that Doria had time to advance with his fltet. Up- 12
on intelligence of this, the siege was raised. .l
Shortly after this period Charles died. $y the trea
tv of Chateau Cat ihrtfis in 1559, the dutchy of Sa- , '3"
voy, principality of Piedmont, the country of BrefTc down u
and moll of the other territories were restored to his '4'
ion Philibert Emanuel, at that time commander of 15.
the Spanish armies. . Thti
PITTSBURGH, July 23. if,"!
between General Wilkirifon of the looking
Asierican army, and Colonel England, of the cxampii
Bniilh army, commanding at Detroit. tjie nati
Head Quartets, Greenville, May 27, 1796. in(tead
nr-iylVr-p m ptoachi
x tlU'il 1 me to oner you my hearty congratu- and fur
utions," pn the- final ratification of the treaty of of the <
arni'y, commerce and navigation, between our re- comm.
fpeftiyc countries, officially ahnonnced to nte by
...• mii .Iltr of v.ar, and promulgated in the ga- Confi
z-ttes, which Ido mjfelf the to coclofe goodsai
1U ... this city
A. ;! e deurcry of the pods, held by your roy. Lower'(
a; rnaftci's troops, within the limits of the United A fre
.ates, makes one condition of the com pa dt; it is ty guar
-*y slih to concert with you, the measures whieh cotomen
may be deerr.eJ expedient, Ja the faithful eTcccutlon
, j of this fiipulation, and to prevent any'uraecefTary
interval, between the periods of your evacuation
der the and of my occupancy.
id with I Hand in perfett readinels for the operation,
d must and entertaining no doubt that the'treaty -will-be 1
:eiiß o) fairly, fully and punrtilioufly executed, on the part ;
n. The his majesty, it becomes my duty to req.icd in- i
neither formation from you, of the day on which it may 1
cans he convenient for you Jo withdraw the troops under a
your coitmiand, from the territory of the United
uto an States.
mm, at My aid-d«-camp, Capt. Shaumburgh, will have t.
shewn 'he honor to deliver tliis letter to you, and he will \
lire an receive and forward your anfvyer to me, byexprefs, tl
n Con to meet the advanced corps of the arn{y, in the ( «
teflion viciuityof Roche de Bout. It
Regu- With n upli prrfonal refptft and esteem, p
-e fcnt I'have the honor to'Jje, j T
fly at- Your most oberirent servant, lii
harge 1 JAMES WILKINSON, b.
ites of ' Briga'dicr,General, u th
j'rela- Lieut. Col. Englanss, of tbe"l ' pi
years, British Infantry, ( ap
have or Commanding Officer, it f" pe
:is ci- Detroit. j
polite Detroit, June to, 1796. inj
press Sir,
if ta- HAD the honor of receving by youraid-de
jtion, cam p> Capt. Shaumburgh, y®ur letter uvder date '
lilhed l ' le z . 7; h l 'l c - mentioning your wish to concert with Al
jutres me ' ' measures as may be deemed expedient for
ufwer c l f l' vrt ing up thi3 post to you, and requeuing to
:ft or k" o,v the day that it' "would be convenient for me
grant to w "i'draw the troops nnder jiy command from ]
have '^ c tei " ! ory of the United Stitcs.
their And inanfwet beg to inform you, that in confe-
Iving que'ice of orders from his Exctllency Lord Dor»
Was cllcft «r, buildings are erecting on the grpund direift- Ar
>üble ' lls Excellency to be occupied on oppo- a q
ge- ''f e '^ ls " ve r» f'" - the sccomcndstion of Cai
they f troops, and the prorte£lion of his ilores, do.
trs in to evacuating this pblt, agreeably to 14
gain treaty of amity, commerce and n*vi£aiion, tas,
can "'"c'uded between Great-Britain and the United' bee
dant S ,a,es - and that those buildings are in great for- i-Ve
wardnefc, but not having as yet received *}v 3 final He
'ther the polls under my corrmandj 40
:heir !t is podible for me to fix ou a day fur that En
; the P" r P ofe ' 45
fore havr, however, strong reasons for fuppofinjr, 27;
ceep those ordcis will not be unnecessarily delayed, qui
artt- when I receive them it will afford rae much in r
ork P ,eafl3re i" communicating to you, the time that ] do.
(hall J?e able to withdraw the troops, and to doi
nen, ce,t . w ''h'you fttch measures as may be deemed cx _ Por
dif . pedient for your immediately occupying the p f ,ft 6 qhit
and un^4r my diredion. f o [ s
I beg further to add, that from the preparations mot
already made, a few cays will be fuflicient to ac
comphfh the tranlport of the troops and o.e r e a
maining ttores, to the post ordered to be occupied sol.
6n the opposite fide of this river. thar
1 have the honor to be,
With much petfonal refpeft and esteem
Sir, '
of Your very obedient, and 1 E
2 "j mofl humble servant, inu ,
rl e (Signed; Dd. ENGLAND,
lnft Rr.V r. nr /-, Commdt. 0
los ® r, g- Gen. WrLKiNsoN, Com f - whei
ing manding the troops of the i afcri 1
by United States, &c. &c. J grcei
on Meadville, on the Banks of French Creek, to p!
Am:f n r doUb^^ friend of
° f pan of the progress of civilization in a this,
„° p tof the country, where a few months finee no hath
u. bright ray appeared to illume the country, but mifes
to Cloud, of daiknefs and death thrown over it by fa eavfc
vage-murder and dellruaion. Y P
Ihe Habitants of thij Dlace ito •• • / ,
,t «« M«Dd.y 1,», lt ,« Jt h
i P"'P-r«.... «!"■ "1
f. citnen of Am," °° "' lih •'« f «»«
I :
ES 2 The p r eV Of ; L c bC r y r , I hroU "' ,out ttle woiid. Prcfb)
2. Ihe rrefioent of the Umted.States. C att
t fence he,oes who * in de- wo re ,
4- The Republic of France a " d
U si' Th"*!^ 1 and the weflern army. ~
The Marquis de la Fayette. J
7- yic patriots of Ireland.
,f 8. The United States of America— Ma- the
j sfe,e " Ce "Ughten the minds of her citizens We
i and the princioles of j * we
- diffufed through, heir hear" P Un ™yte
- 9' The (fate of Pennsylvania. f h
a I .Vwhichwe l ™eGdl PoP,l,at!on 0f th ' C ° lln - " ef Y vl
■ ~ fe 'W
. .4- "»•"
15. i lie Day—Nine cheers.
Thus, ft-hen almofl the whole world . t> ,
wading through seas of hi t / twar , By tl
we aie reioioimr re fl A 9 °^ ,n fri<;do ™.
T*» <*«*. -ai ,
naUV "' L man r of them now in our view who V>
tnfiead of the war-whooD aaH h-..i ' n ®'
pro,idling wilh the heuion afuect o fT' " t
mi linking ,h, long of p„ c / Th 5'S°%P"
rf,h«a. y „ „r,h , bt ssi
„ d ,
goods are daily fending off from and n»fT u' * nCa "
this city for Montreal, Quebec and other "f ! ° onths
Losver Qanaoa. P aces in rio» of 1
A free trade with Canada, which Mr Tav' ■* 'h t C
17 guarantiee, tmbr.ct, , ra i„ p o,„„', 21
commercial advaowge lo , bc
rcu'ion ttceiiSr.fr from us larg-e fupplicS of. for iju goods
ixefTarv which have p=id the accuflomed ifuiiti at our ports
cuation —and giving in return fpcrie, ileitis and pelttiea. I
We already begin to feel these advantages
tration, A letter from a gemlenlan in New-York, by the
ivill'be lafi" mail, gives us the melancholy tiding?, that the
he part yellow feve r is actually making its appearance again
.led in- in the eity. The fate rtfrtfliin? rains, we hope,
it may will nip this dreadful malady in its firft onset, and
! under arrell its progrtfs.
United N E W-Y O R X, July 26, 1796,
Messrs. Blanchard and Eater, have the pleasure
II have to inform the fuhiei ibers and other citizens of New
lis will Yotk, that the balloon is arrived from Bolton, and
cprefs, I '.hat it is at the honfe adjoining which the ascension
in the will take plsrc, that-'the house will be erected to
suspend the balloon 111 with ail speed, and the am
m, pliltheatre will, also be built a« soon as poflible.
That the tickets will be prepared-and ready for de
livering within a few oavs, and the fubfcribeis will
'N, be waited on with'tSe.ir tickets, and it is. hoped
that no person will lose tiie. present opportunity in
* ' pnrchafing a ticket to fee the balloon atid all the
apparatus for imputing the fame, as it mull be ex.
pefled that the present afeenfion will be the IaII in 1
America, .on account of the gteat expeoce attenth 0
|6. ing this charming philosophical expei irneiit. n
J-de- ALEXANDRA, July ig
date Tranjl.Uedfor the COLUMBIAN MIRROR. tl
with Abftra£l from the Journal ps Commerce, printed ti
it for at Paris the 58th Germinal (April 17) and tl
gto brought by the Hsip Potom'ack Chief, captain 'd
■ me Chunn. e ,
from Prices of Merchandize at Bourdeax, the 21ft jh
Germiisl (April().) it
)n fc- In Specie.- vi
Dor- Starch, to sols a pound.—Steel, 19 do. do n<
>efe American, Beef, 72 livtes a barrel.—Butter, 80 do. ?.{
ppo- .i quiita!. —Pru.lian Blue, 12 d». a pound.—Wax te
1 of Candles, 2 do. 15 sols a do.—Mould do. 13 sols a its
ires, do.—Pitch and Tar, 19 livres a barrel. Wheat, de
' to 14 do. a quintal. Chevin, 10 do. a do. Coppe- co
ion, tas. 12 do.adn. White lead, 90 do. a do! Ydl',.w .1
lited bees \vax, 48 sols a pound. Foreign Coal, Joo li- m<
tor- vres <1 up." Country do. 370 do. a do. Country th
final lieinp, 40 do. a quintal. Alhes made of Tartar, foi
andj 40 do. a do. Flander's Glue. 15 fols-per pound. m<
that English do t 22 do adj. Efl'ence of Therebentine, ha
45 hvrcs a quintal. Brandy by barrel of 50 veltes, re;
i"iT» 272 do. a'barrel. Swedilh Iron aflbrted, 36 do. a th<
quintal. Do. do. in (heet, 48 do. a do. Do. do. do
uch m.rods, 30 do. a do. Green Cod F.fh, 25 do. a na<
at j do. G.III Nutts, 30 sols a pound. Black do. 45
: 0n do. a do. Pot Aihes, 50 livres a quintal. Salt Fr
ex- - °tk, 90 do. a barrel. Carolina Ricc, 21 do. a ari
ofts quintal. -Rosin, 5 do. a do. Matfeilles Soap, 12 wh
sols a pound. Liquid do. 18 livres a quintal. Com- cot
ons mon Salt, 4 do. the mine. fpj
ac- N. B. The French livre is valued at 18 cents ing
re- aid The said livre is coicpofed of 20 so I
,icd sols; affd the French pound is two ounces niore Ca
than tse American. con
tP (P ei,n -) J l, 'y 27. goc
byre QU EST. JJ
• f P c r i e u W o '**** on the morn- nec
in* of Safcbath last, at the age of 27 years, Miss iul
Avsa htN'UDv, daughter o f Robert K<-nnedyT pub
O. her it may be said, (he was juttly refpeaed The
when living, and lamented now dead? Wejuftly een
-aicr.be to her an informed mind-affable and a- (till
greeable of temper-modett and le>
■greeablfc in,converted A pattern of obedience cabl
to parents jafeful ,n the station of life, allotted her. reih
(Mie lomettme taught a young ladies' school) All The
of her•other v ,„ues received additional luflre, from vern
1 a h ft,-w as a chnft.an and liv'd in that faith that obje
no hath for its foundation and warrant the divine pro
ut mtfes This was her consolation at death-and Let,
a- gave her fortitude, pat.eace and fubmiflion under m
..P""!" 1 , * nd ln 'g enn g disease a consumption 1
y (which ft,e laboured under for about two years.) «
„Z-!"uT S ' V t r> ' gre . a, .' aud for Ezc
, fe t »ed ss
;; of ' h r P oet? y to r i,nder her afflia; ° n^h =«°>ds ,ea,
d ■ "'i he Saint fuftain'd it, ) '
7 " But the Woman Died." J, f
I. Priv"irrh n " m , ber T mkd the funeral ,0 facvH
Cat/hcl" ' ; here < he R -- v - Rob«t. the a
- worc's_.'« L ~ C 'r' l, a , <J,fcou,fe from these expo!
and let My | aft belike W-
" " j our li
7,~77 m^mmm —■» ot[ier
by this day's mails. indep
" 1 Exce
' xxr 1 . NEW-YORK, July 28 \r [
; 1,1 "Tl " hich
of Bade—Switzerland TK " the =" nb!t
the answer of the latter (hp 'i n P? rtant "> an( l j who I
. ness which (till exiPs am ' "Y \ ' a i ni " I at ' ol
pendent peop e. u 7ub the <
airce of the Svvifs'Canrnr. , c r-ccnt appear- I t ,
•he Prince of Conde w ,h° c ° f of A
through fheir territory' • alrt f f em,^'antfl me.fu
tended the reeol .bn 'of MT t W, " ah
"ilt.r ,0 the Republic. Barthj|lcmi as Mi- the In
Empe
algerin'e treaty thoug v
Oy the Snow Pallas, arrived lalt - : r any th
Late last evenintr the K r ,', r f£sfAth I season,
Dow„ s> arrived\tVh spo f W "
left on the 23d June Gibraltar, which a very
ri
secret there : that f'he a e P l a pro- now w
for the American flair UD ,he S t u , da "" er then >-
nean Ambassador at Cadiz V T B ' u'• Ame " ref,din !
months indulgence from Algiers
°f >I'= term for the recetvian c,[ "P lr;i ' tion, S (
that, a Cru>fer had ap pcare( | ' ( ' ff r '-, Ca A' but intellig
"uft-kc? the Ame.ican Capuins bad
u goods cautionej by the Am ricn,n Ambaffiidor 1
ur ports the Consuls, not to proceed higher up
pcltriea. of Danes had been fafctrn Tome ;j' BK . f II ,p U ®' ier
peace was again procured for th£ m ( • bl j
by the probable, the Alicant informer refers to ) V'. " '*
hat the thing short of the jcc.OOO dollars wifj cc , jf ■ "° -
:e again American peace after July 7, w he,i
: hope, maitths indulgence evpired. ee
et, and Cipf. D. also informs, Oiat.fidmiral M an > r
dron arrived 1 here to refit,a few Jav S bef, »TV
5. Ed—and that admiral Richery'sfquadron '1'"
ileafure at Cadiz, one fliip and one frigr.te short f'\)
f New- force. " "' r " ' an ' B
in, and ( r^UJ
•enfion [Continuation of foreign advices k
aed to (hip Brifeis, Capt. Brent h, from Bourdeaul 1
e ar!l - Translated Jur tJ>e Daily SldvtruKr J
jffible. ' J '
r or de- F~R AW( E. " _
is will Letter of M. Barthelemi, Ambafodor 0 r ,l
hoped French Republic to the Canton of R f-l r
'ityiri May, 1796. ' 9 lh of
11 the Magnificent Lords,
be ex. The orders of the executive direflorv „f a
lalt in French Republic, oblige me to recal t!.e Lent
ttend= of your worthy date, to the circumstances aud T
motives which dilated the declaration which 1 w 7
diredted to prefetft to you on their pan, on ,bl
16th of Germinal last the aiifwer which you ger .
IR. tlemen maae thereto, has not answered th-ir exped
inted. tion. Charged witMhe defence of the territory of
the republic, and with the care of its j,| orv
ptain -duty of • the Executive Diredory to antirinate
events; >t is their dnty to baffle by <Je„o., nc 4 t0
id von the projedis of the enemies of France and of
its republican cottftitution ; it is their duty to in
v.te you to take metres capable of securing
0 — neutrality. and of making it refpeded they have
)<lo. asked of you what those measures were. If the
Wax term? of their declaration were severe, it watbecaufe
ols a its object was important ; beeaufe the schemes and
teat, del.gns of our enemies already more than once dif
ppe concerted, gave them a right to entertain difqui
-0 It- mation announced that they, were disposed to tebtW
ntry them ; beeaufe slfo at that moment it was neceflTaW
star, for them to be informed' of the unequivocal fenti.
und. merits of many of the Helvetic ihtes, fomeofwhom '
tine, had not feared to doubt thcexiflenCS of the French
Ites, republic, by refufing voluntarily to pronounce upon
10. a the acceptance of the letters of credit of its ambaffa.
do. dor, and in postponing the period of their determi- "
10. a nations by outrageous and ridiculous delays.
.45 When a government so powerful as tfcat of the
Salt French Republic is thus flighted, when that flight
o. a anfes from the machinations of guilty fugitives
12 whose every step tends to exciting di'fontionsin their
om- country against which they are in a permanent con
spiracy, while at the fame time, they are esdeavour
ents mg to draw down in their fall tjiofe Hates who are
20 so blind as to be mitfed by them ; when the Swift
lore Cantons, the ancient allies of TVance.flW to holda
conduct so reprehensible, is i'.fo itrange that the Ex
ecutive Directory (liould for a moment arrell its
good will and legard you with raiftrufl ? There are
j other confiderat 10ns upon wnich Ido not think it
>rn- neceffa-y here to enlarge ; they are no doubt patn
liisM inl and refped the security which the French Re
cly. public Wish to find fit tFeTentiments and affeflions of
led the government and people of Neutral States. Such
Itly gentlemen are the views which have animated and
a- (till continue to animate the Executive Diredoty.
md 1 expect from you without dehy, a frank and ami.
ice cable explanation which will difpcl their doubts end
er reilore to your state their feiiuments of good will,
'ill They have given me their orders for my further go.
vernment 111 cafe your anlwer does not fulfil that
iat I object. I pray God, &c.
rp-
nd Letter of the State of Baiii, to Monfienr Barthele
let I mi, Ambaflador of the French Republic, May
on I 11, 1796.
>•) I " e fee with sincere pain from-the letter of your
ral I ilzcellency,of the 20th Floral, that our lcntiments
lie I appear to' be mifuoderflood, and that we are in a
rt. J frtuation tolofethe goodwill of the Executive Bi
ds rectory of thej'rcnch Republic. As f.ion as war
was declared, we promised a Beutrality ; from that
j time it hath been confiantly tl,e oi">jc£t of our care,
j of our zeal, and of our solicitude, and many are'the
ie I facrifices which it hath cod us to maintain it amidrt
t ) the dangers to which at eertaiiV-Ptriads it hath been
le j exposed. Nothing can more deeply afflid us than
s, to find the fidelity of our conduit and the purity of
j our iritenlitjns doubted, finceboth the one and the
J ot[ier forms the malt solid basis of our honor, of ottr
independence, and of our tranquility ; we beg your
J Excellency, to rfTure the government from which
you hold your powers, that we will never depart
I from those principles which have been transmitted
h I to us by our predecefTors, and that it is our highest
e j ambition to commit the deposit unsullied, to those
d j who (hall fueceed us ; this is the firft duty of our
• I Rations, and is the true mean* to secure to ourfe'»e«
- the confidence and the gratitude of our Fellow
- Citizens.
• j It remains to add that since our letter of the 9th
f of April we have cor?sn«d ourselves to the simple
f j measures of .maintaining (>iir neutrality. Our un
- easiness on this head having been communicited to
- I the Imperial Minuter, he wrote to us by order oflhe
Emperof, that he ceitainly had not the lead
thought of doing or fuffering the Emigrants to do
I any thing which fiiould affect the neutrality of our
■ j Territory. ' "
I • We have prepared our signals and our alarm guns,
I whichon ncc-niint of the armiftire, and di?
season, were not jn a state fit for iervice i by these
j means it is well known we cafi in a few days coll<?6t
j a very large force.—We are training olir miljtia,
J and they are ready to march at the si r
1 The contingeotsof the other Cantons, s
I now with us, have received evprefs orders • 1 r
1 their vigilance on the polls which are entr :
them. The reprcfcntatives of the Helv •<'*'
residing witii us, to tdke cognizance of t
things, to aft in the name of the whole
tion, 4<id to give in our reasons to" their ci. ;lcn '
intelligence of any dangers which rosy th
I countries, will let nothing pals which can c<
I Peace of our common country ; we hav
, written to our allies reminding them of !' ■
j 'ies which unite us, and we have received ;n ''
«mammons »!Tur a rt« »hat thry are a, may to- Aui;
(iv t.» our and to. defend our frontiers, men
We cmiclude with praying your excellency to tranf. on t,
rait thi fe detail, to the Directory, and to warn Gen
them abovf till things, those exaggerated ve- brav
latio*. which from an t'xeefc of zeal 10 serve them JL
may be traiifrrvitted to them. ~~ :
HAMBURG, 30th April.
We hear from the confederation of Podolta, that tnol
the former fv/ord-bearer of Lithuania, Ogmflci, who ct>u<
laelv went from Pans f't Conftantinot le, is the tfeei
principal head of it, and h- is alresdv arrived there, fitio
Ami'! the other chiefs we »ljaf ■! Heaver the j. »- no,
loncle Kociol, who made binMf kn'o*n in the lift wit
revolu inn. As for the.we have *. yet only iup f
received imperfect de'jil? ot thi. confederation an r
of it, mea-s. But what rr.av he regarded as cer- U>an
W in is, that if the mf** —
rfie „ito recover their liberty, Catharine on th, Uirr
Other hand is doing all in her power to mit. their Pea,
i-bahis.—She hath lately lifted an order, obbgii#
the parents of girls .who have arrived at the age of
ten years', to deposit their milage portion, in the
Imperial Treasury. She has like,vife tak-n upon
herfelf to choose hu(bmd£ for them. It is to be
fee.) that the Emprel's hopes, by this forced depoUt Ami
to rellrain the Poles, who will dread a fonfifcation
of a valuable part ef their property ;it is alio as 1
easy to forefec that she will choose none but ltuifi terr ,
an hufbmds, nndi'r the idea that children will anfe f.a<
from fneh marriages who. will forget the country to },
of their mothers, anilconfider themfelve. as belong- c f
ing to ihnt of their fathers. It mull be conceived, rC ve
that i ( that plan is put into execution, it will have £ ut
the effea which the court of Ruflia expieets, but its f
execution produ.es an extreme indignation. Never lolir
before hath any despot shown so effe£tua!ly an utter tow
contempt for the feelings of. nature, and of Vl,) ' c {tor
rights which are held sacred among the -civilized and
nations of the woild, nor have men at any time lay
been made mre bitterly to.feet their slavery. If tow
the cabinets of Europe mean to oppose the atr.bi- pais
tious views of Ruflli-—if/i)pon ti\e whole thev arc
tkit.k i!,>.;ca.i ni.ke ule ot the Poles to work a g ra
diversion, they should profit, by the indignation (tat
which this new tyranny has ex .ited in that unhsp- eo n
py country. The king of Pruflia is busy in raising { eri
laTge bodies of cavalry in his new Polifti poflclTioii?. ct {\
He thus recruits his army with troops reputed ex- ; n f
; cellent cavalry, and takes from the country those, | a s s
who having the greatest courage and ability, would ho)
be the molt dangerous to his new dominions. ✓ Du
LYDEN, May 7- . asd
The question whether neutral veflels may navi- ; t
gate the Scheldt, is not yet decided ; it is still a to
jubjeft of negociation between the French and Ba- \y,
tavion Republics. A paper publilhed 111 that ci- jo
ty ohferves, that Admiral Van Stabel ha. taken a ;
yeflel from Hamburgh tinder bis convoy, the pallage w h
of that ship could not be confidcred as a proof that his
the indefisit? liberty of the Scheld was determi- f e j.
ued.
— del
"PARIS, 5 Prairial. a r
The Austrian hath broken the truce, and on
the izih of this month (May 31.) hostilities will j ol
recommend*. —He lutti-tfeeettto'pte voke us at the tii;
moment we were passing the Po, while we were gj;
conqueiiug at Lodj'—He jvaf 'hen ignorant of cu ,
tliofe I triumphs, and doubted the invincible ardor
of our heroes: Now convinced "f his imprudence t l 1(
and of liis misfortunes, he retires from those camps tu ,
from which he had menaced us, iwd fecks his faftty
behind intrenchments, which will form but a fee- his
ble barrier agaiwft our two. hundred thoufajid bay- c 0
onets.
The Dire&ory have addressed a Proclamation to to
the armies of the Sambpq and Meufe, iind of the
RMne—They remind them of that honorable and f a ]
sacred d;bt which have at this mcjrient'to pay
to those who within one month have made fuci) ad- W(
vances of that common yibute which all awe 10 p,
their country.
The obflinacy of that feroiioua enemy wTio 111 ,3;
his humiliation, still dares to brave them, (Kould
rouse their ; like the Tiger who ] 0
around the prey which refills him, he retains in his,
defeat the cruelty of his chara&er —He is allured by r ;
btood,'and is hut the more furious for the strokes 1
he r.ceives—Defpair hath temp.ttd him to breolt a
he himf-lf had demanded, at.a time | t
when our armies after a judiciops retreat had taken t ]
an impiegrabV position, and which / would not
have been granted to him, hut f'om ttie hope of t
Peace. The I'nimpet of War hath founded the a
hour of vengeai te, and that Pe:vc« which he hath
Tefofed, he will loon think himfelf too happy, if he jj
could obtain it. c
Courier du Corps Legiflatif.
•DINANT, igth Flore J. t
- The situation tf our.country is generally pretty
much the Tame. Th? day befor? yesterday, they
shot here twodeferters from the Republican troops, {
who had bt<sn chiefs among the Chouans —they sub- a
mitted to their fate with firmnefd. Some days be- j
fore, several folaiers of the main army, accused of
theft, rape and plunder, were condemned by- the (
irtilitary eummiHion, to two years imprisonment in
irons.
Jamin, thefon, returning to this place from Be- j
eltuel, was afijfliuated by the Chouans; his body j
was found in the highway, pierced with several
wounds, by (hot, and by the sabre. I tie cxclujivtt (
patriots, of our country, under the pretext that he |
,was a Ctiouan, rejoice at a misfortue which has (
—ptmigm mi mll iu 1 jr.'Ta.'ntTy 1:i gvTcf. It is to be re
marked, 'hat he hae always fought againfl the Chou
ans, but with those txclnfivepatriots, every person
vho does not belong to tbeir infernal band is no.-
minated a Chouan.
BRUSSELS, 18 rioreal." (May 17.)
Gen. Jourdaii, accompanied by several Field Of
ficers and Engineers, visited the new positions of
his army on the Upper Rhine, in the environs of
Bingen, Bacharach, anci Bircenfkld. He left in
several places Engineers who are direAed tot-on
ilru£t newfortifrcatioris, and repair the old ones.-i-
Aftet this infpettion of his army, Jouidan return
ed to Coblentz, where lie daily holds councils of
war. As to the rell there is not yet any appear
ance that the truce will be soon biokc,:. The Fieneh
<v Aulirian, and Saxon oiiicers, dully give e.nt«Ut»- *t;'—
mehts to each other, hunt together, and in fine are [x'ri
f. on the very bt l terms with each other—the enemy's
11 Generals show on all Jccalions, their esteem for the
bravery of the French.
n Letters which are received f om the environs of
C.»blentz, Treves, and H-mdlkiriick, give a fright- S
ful picture of the dreadful misery which reigns in poiiti
it those unhappy countries—the inhabitants of the the 1
0 country are there redtr-ed to rhe moll cruel dilh-efs, philo
their property is taken frum them by way or requi- the a
e. fitior, they fve neither 1 provision nor cattle, in fine rcilo
>- nothing to .often their horrible condition. No!- Mini
ft withftamling the fevcrc mrthods which are afe<l to was I
y supply the watv tof the irmy, it -is-no:-.uncommon Sew
d for them to want meat.for 8 days. The forced eros
f . loan has'completed the rigorous fate of rti<jparl.-ftf a toe, li
g"'Gerovuiy i k&i** -ffibiliij 11C wlftWng the ed tl
furrs demanded - 'hey Im< ek'lTcned th« firft taxes.—, occa!
ir Peace is the only reintdy for their evils. phy,
jr 1 11 - fciVt i
>f Philadelphia, July 30.
11 From a Correjpondcnt. enetr
,e 1 J. — f )' co
it Americans, learn tqjte wife by others harms, and you ' vfn
n Jbali do full well. ■'
" THE weak powe'S engaged in the war have a nev ' c
i- terrible time of it. Spai 1 vras overmauhfd by ne ''
ie France, and got out of the scrape by yielding up tlle <
y to h/cr the half of Hifpanicla—which, in the-hands nor 1
I- of an i. duftriotis people, would be worth, either for
3, revenue ot rich productions, as much as a third rate w " ! -
W European kingdt m. a |'
ts Holland got out of the war'againft Fr.nce by an '^
er losing her independence as a nation, her forts and "'ho
m towns were taken. Her vail magazines of military na ' ;
fe stores, her Ihipsand na-val arsenals, which the wealth e:ul
-d an.) industry of two ages had collffted, -'were ftized °f 1
ie by the conqueror. The very piftnres from her ''
If town halls, the master pieces of the immortal Etutch
ii* painteis, arc carried away to France. There they P al^
;y arc rxhjbit-ed aa trophies of the weakness and de
a gradation of that once unconquerable people. A . com
Jn state ef conquest is bad enough, altho' it may bd c W r
p- concealed under the name of regeneration fra-PPea' ea
ig ternky. To'pay tribute to the conqueror, to re- f?ff e
i?. ceive nis troops and pay them for heading the state In j J _'
x* in fubjedtion ! behold, Americans, what folloxvs the
fe, lass of independence, and resolve wU( yoa be- » !ie
U hold it, to do and fuffer in&nitely moie than the i mo: j
Dutch did before you farrender it.
The Dutch got out of the war agsinft France, and
asd into a war with England, by which (strange as ,!in^
«• it may feLth after their other loses) thsy are liable lS
1 a to lose mote. The Caf>e of Good Hope, their j'S 1 )
ia - Weft India *nd East India polTeffions are too i*icb ' u,u
ci- to he spared, and too weak to be defended.
13 Sardinia finks likewise under the conqueror,
ge what has he saved ? his realm, hjs-futuie-fecurity or Va , (
lat his ho or! Read the Treaty and judge fcir your- p:. rj
ni- selves whether he could have Toit mare. putt
The Dake of Parma, in the like maniieV, fnrrtn- Perl
ders at difcietion, pays money and puts the fool ot join
a mailer on l.is own neck. j] as
°b The Genotm Princes whose territories have been ucc
if ill conquereJ n>.< oorfo badly off; is ihc Empire and
ne the Austrian monarchy are still in force and drug
eic .£'i |! £ to wind «p the war in a manr.er will jpro
cure the rsftitution of their dominions.
l° r The powerful king of Priiffia gained money by tm
lce the loan of his afullaace, and is watching his oppor
ipS to profit further by the conteil.
-'Y The Emperor is lit lie exposed to further loss in ' or
ee_ his hereditaiy dominion., and still contends to re- l j ie
»y- cover Brnhan. and Loinbardy. lon
G. Britain being fupetior at feasors on adding
1,0 to her aheady too extensive colonial pofTcffions.
the Xh us we fee how very unequally the lot of war] i
3 "d falls upon the weak and the (trong. of
pay America, compared with France or England, is evs
weak in war. She is illy -situated and worse pre
to pared to make or keep conqtiefts. c ' a:
Let her sons then east a reße£ting eye o.er the
i" difallfous fate of the nations whose military force wt
m!d jj-rcatly exceeded hers, and who nevertheless have { ; v
> *j 3 101 l (as we have seen) tfieii territory, their
' l:6, their wealth a- d tKcir independence. Had Ame- dr
iby r { c g joined in the war, flie would have gained fui
• ,^ es nothing—and when josses were to be itpaired or
' l (aerihees made, she, as the tves'ter, would have been j>®
time ]pf tj alK j perHaps railed upon, by her ally to muke j .
s ' , ' e " them. To save or to recover her colonic., anally q,
n °l (for ever allies Tove themselves best) would fufisr f u
)e ot America to he difpofTefTed of the right to the whale th
tlle and Newfoundland nfheries, or of the Weftem ter-
| )a,a i-itoiy, or the right to the navigation of the Midif
he jjppi—perhaps if the wat proved unfuccefsful, to 1 '
cede a Southern state or two.
'f- Americans think of your happy lot and be wife t j,
t-o discern the things that belong to your B
re,t y P £ A C E.
tllf y Citizen.Bache is in a very great hurry to have
>ops, ca p ti plgot hanged because Greenleaf has told us
a doty of his whipping an American captain. This
! k e ' is exadlly in the Style of Revolutionary jttftice. The j
profound citizen forgot that the other fide of the
l h. e quefl ion had not been heard.—" O wife youug j
nt in Judge !•' §
A Bojlon ship (name unknown) arrived at Ham
-1 burgh from Bengal, a few day. previous to the
bod y failing of rhe Hai mony J |
rveral Lately died at sea, Capt. Hugh si. Macile,
of the (hip Canton, of this port. The Canton 5
at being damnged by a storm on her voyage from Ma, t
1 ' ias dra3 Jo bore away for Manilla, where (he
> c re " wa3 condemned as unfit for fetvice. Unhappily J
-hou- Qgpt, died three days before the fliip ar
eiion r j vc( j at t^al p] ace- w }, o knew the Captain S
is no- w jjj rca( jily acknowledge that the United States
have loft in him a rnoft able seamen, as well as a
man of t>e mod Emiable disposition and manners.
We learn by Capt. Strong, in eight days from <
d Of- Charleston, that 20,000 dollar? had been colledted
ins of for the relief of the unfortonate fuffertrs by the \
ins of late calamitous fire. 1
eft in Arrivals at New York.
>con- I DAYS,
Ship Dispatch, Carpenter, We of May, 30
rturn- Brig Commerce,' Dowers, Gibral'ar, 36
.ils of Pallas, , Cadiz, do.
™pear- Slcop Prudent, Pupil, J..tnaica 30
"icneh Delight, Warner, Poit-au-Piince, 10
[TVijpflated jor the Gmrt-te or tub United the ll
ox of
From Hamburgh papers. enern
PARIS, May 8. binic
Council of Five Hundred. ever}
Sitting a{ the yth. Chenier reports on the prr>- Ho
position for depositing cf the ashes of Dcfcartes in , vi'lai
the Pantheon. After a lively panegyric on that Indie
philofophtr, he proposes to transport on May 29th men,
thea'hes of Defeartcs to the Pantheon. The Di- by, t
rectory, the National Institution and the Foreign fistic
Ministers were t» attend that ceremony. But what T
was the fcrprife of Chenier, w hen Mercier rose and ot ci
&eweH, how little the charaft- expei
errtf a man by his romantic fyflem, and that by o]
•ikej iiiiteaj-pf feu nets, h«l tvkitt
ed th'#?r a whole cer-i iiry. On this
occafton Mercier againll modem philofo- P
phy, with which all it calculation, that fuffotates Capt
femirhent': Voltaire was raiher roughly handled Left
Hv the way'. " Did not they," f?ys Mercier, for
" open the gates of the Pantheon to lhat famous havir
enemy of raorals and manners, to lint milcrable three
fyeophant, who offered up incense to kings, and pany
even could rret conceal his flavifti principles in his Libe
tragedy Brutus. Voltaire in his numerous writings and
never paid any refpedV to what is good/just, ho- | llabl
nelt or holy." Mercier gave it as his opinion, that bpd
the council i« no and can decree the ho- othe
nor of tlist Pantheon only 10 legislators and heroes.
Byanordsrof the Dire£Wy, the execution of Exti
which is enjoinsito the Central Bureau of Police, a
Vadier, Amar, Vnulland, Fayan, Choudier, Ciiales di
ani Huguet, late members of the Convention, "
who formerly corillituiecJ the Revolutionary I'ribu proc
nal at Nantz and caused thefather of General Mor, Herb
eau to be executed on the very day when tht; news two
of the vidiAry gained by his son arrived, are order- long
ed to quit Paris without delay, inhere they were 'Hie \
, always busy, to harangue the groupes, and to re- doll:
pair to theii tefpeftive departments. • coffi
The of the mandates causes many lony
commotions. The soldiers, who are paid by thst will
. currency, go into shops, choose goods, as they beer
. please, enquire the price, offer mandates, and then "
taketh? goods away by violence. The merchants as t
injured thereby in their property, ndto refufe to fell, kno'
. This creates want, that makes the people angryJ
The deputies receive 2500 livres in mandates per
. ; month. ' I '
Yesterday the grqupes aflembled more numerous
and the motions made in them, were mure violent, twc ~
< . . ... mori
j than ever. A
Sine the 6th of May nobody will accept the as- Doll
lignats of jO,OOO, 2000 and 1000 liv(es. The TKS
s louisd'ot a few days ago wa3 7,400 livres, and jt
keeps ft ill at 6,800 to 7®oo livres. bll!
j THORN (VYeti-Pruflia) May 2.
We learn from Moscow, that the Ruffian General ■
' Valerien Suboff, has taken the command again# the T
Perfans, and the unruly people on Meunt Caucafus,'by •
putting bimfelf at the head of 24,060 troops. The j J
P.erGaus are divided into two parties, one of which
t joined the Raflians, from amongst the latter a prince g
has been at P.terfburgh two naonths, in order to obtain j n t
B fuctoura. < that
d SAVANNAH, 'July 12. the
( The Federal arid State Commissioners, appointed ter 1
to hold a treaty with the Creek Indians, are rq
y mined to this plsfce ; the objeil. of the State of urJ
Georgia, the p'roc Bring the lands between the f a ;j
Ocoscr, Qakrr.utjjee and TenafTee Country has unt del]
n fcrtuuaiely flileri : the confequenges are to be ru<
drendsd. We hope to be able to :;ive our readers
some information on this ffl jest in our next. , mo
AUGUS'I 4 , July 14. _ for
° Extract of s leU.r from a at Colerain, to 0 j
his friend ifi this place, datedjnne 27, / ten
lr " I wrote to you by the last post giving some account
of the politics of this place. Having been here almost g ra
is ever since I will endt avortogive some further account, pas
e „ " It is my opinion that Jackson and Simms have
damnfd the treaty—it seems to me the former is d< ran
ged, his arrogance overleaps a»y thing 1 have ever seen.
From his want of temper he difguftcd the Indians as —
cc well the Federal Coinitiiflioners. Declamatory fnvec
ve tive OUfle up all his joratory, and pervaded his whole
,r | fleportment upon this important million. Col. Hen
le- dritks's cotndudl is much approved ; and had his mea
ed fures been pursued the lands might have been obtained. E"
or He aflociated with all .the gentlemen engaged in the ne
en -gociation f and gained their efleem. 1 think he ought \
f n to protest againfl the proceedings of his colleagues, but "
lam arfraid he will not. Jackson's mean endeavors to
lly ihift the blame offhis.own ftioulders, will,l.fear be too _
kr fuccefst'ul with the misguided people ; but, be afTjired £-
ak that the Federal CommifSoners and Mr. Seagrcvecon-
sr. tinued to do every thing in their power as long as Jack- k.
[jf. son kept within tolerable bounds, You niay rely on lan
this account of affairs, although I can not at prelent del- ; 'y
° cend to particulars. Some little matters have turned as
up here which may prohably flop his career in a lhort ec
timC - w
iV£ Philadelphia, F
us SATURDAY EVENING, July 30.
j l ' s Died this morcing, UaVID KENNEDY, £
Esq. Secretary of the Land-Ofßce in, this City,
the
ARRIVED AT THIS PORT-
School*. €olle£tor, Milby, Paiiquotank. 6 r
im " CibHy, B'own, Edenton, 13
the Rainbow, Council, Oonaives, 14 n
Brig Liberty, Diwr, Egg Harbour 3
Mary, Earl, Hamburgh. a
ton Hamilttm, Kiikbride, ditto. g
Ma, Fiar.bury, . St. Jago, 39
Ihe ./on CLEARED.
pily Brig Fame, Knox, - - - Barbai oes
ar- Abigail, Tufton, - Halifax
tain Schooner Betsey, East, - -
ate 3 Sloop Nancy, Woglom, ... Siiflollt,
The Mary, Earl, has 150 passengers. <
Arrived at the Fort,
Por S a, Arnold, - - Martha-Brae j
rom Schooner Induflry, M'Kean, - Gonaives
Abarqui frorti Liverpool is said to be below; name
the barque , from Aux-Cayes, is in
the river. . .
iYS. The Editor of the Aiiiora hns much to fay about
3° /'' is difficult 10 fee how the idea can be ap
-36 plied tq any observations infeited in this Gazette,
do. rilativc to instances of magnanimity and generosity
l ?o on the one hand, u r of injultice and cruelty on the 1
, to other. The Editor of this Gazette never fuppo-1
- I
: fed lh?t the villainous con<su& of one nat'or, of
) the individeals thereof, could be med in jr.'.
en of tlic villainous coaduft (>f another—m>. '
enemies of the j*eace of this country. 1
binical fzftion 6t the United States, haw j.
every l/anfaflion of thole *' exclufye P.Uri
. hhod drillers" of Franc;, by a Jll-tfi.
i , villainous tr&nfailioos ot the Engh'h •
t r rsdiea. The cool deliberate mum ere
i men, by Frenchmen in Fiance, h?\>r '
- by, the murders pillage r>rrrl tfotali .
i fiatics, by rhe -Br:::fh in Bci:j;al !
t TUe faction have long been £*i»fnJered
] of credtilily tn J:'So in ; Fallibility, but it \
. expected tliatfthev wo-.iid explicitly avow their
: by openly . afTerting., thai iwo l/mt hews make o.
. mfeow, ■"
3 PROVIDENCE; July 21.
ThutOay latl anived ihs (loop Independence^
s Capt. Graves, in 2<.days from Port-au-Prince.
1 Left (here ship Betky, Matt, of Portland, bound
, for Turks Island, when ht; could procure bandsj
s having bad four men imprcfled, and '.he regaining
s three died loon aftef.'—Capt. Graves failed in com*
) pany 'with five "Amciicaus ; ore wa's the fchooi er
s Liberty,-of Bolton, which,.had Jolt her captain
s and mate; another rhe fch<ion<*r"H3;ii<!ih, ps Barn*
. | liable,' boui)d to Charleston, which hao' been rnb- *
t bsd by tlie brigand's of ?toq d6llars, <>r.d fundi y
. other articles,
July 23.
f Extra£Vof a letter frotft t-tie island of Cavern?, to
, a Fre»ch gentleman of character in this
9 dated J ii«* 2-
, " The have taken another method to
1 procure mone/ ; they have fabricated five millions
•. fterline; in dollais, the value of each pot exceeding
s two (hillings llerling. A (liip from London, be
■- longing to Philadelphia, has been at thia place ;
e "(lie was in ballafl, but had on board 4.0,000 of theft
■- dollars, which the crptain wanted ip ex hauge foe
coffee, cotton, &c. Not succeeding in this Co
y lony, (lie went down to Surinam, where also (lie
4 "could not purclihfe produce, asthe people thetehad
y been informed of the intended fraud.
n " The government of Surinam has been so kind
s as to inform lis of this tranfaftion. -~* Vye do not
I. know where the Philadelphia velTel next went to."
rhe bLKPHANr.
THIS surprising animal is arrived in this city on hi? way
to Cluarlefton. He is to be seen in High-street be
f tween Tenth and Eleventh ilreetJ, from si* o'clock in the
morning to Snnfet.
Admittance—Half a a quarter of a
•' Dollar. July jo §6eotf
Philadelphia, West-Chester, Stras
burgh, York, and Frederick-Town
al S 7 AGE S.
'T'HE proprietors of the above Stages, return their bed
jL thanks to their friends and the public in general, for
the encouragement received in this lluc of hiifinefs, andbeg
'v leavi to inform the public, tb«* they arc determined to run
their stages through from Philadelphia to Lancaster in
: e one das, comtaer.cing on Tuesday, the 14th July instant,
ln in the JpaiULM'.—*'*• A St-ge will fist out on
that da' t;t 4 o'clock, in the morning, from the house of
George weed, Market-flrect, Philadelphia, and run by
the way of Vedcnefter arid Stn.fburgh, arrive in Lancaf
tcl ter the fame evening, on Friday morning run to Wright's
ferry and exchange pafiengers with the York and Fredej.
rick-town fiage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat
-0 urday, and on Monday mornii g following, at 4 o'clock,
he f a ;j ftagewillfet slit from the said George Weed's, Phila
n. delphia, and arrive at I .'arc after the lime evening, on
be Tucfday morning at 4 o'cUck will set out from the heufe
, rs of Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive iu Philadelphia
the fame evening, and trill, concmesce again on Tharfday
> morning following, and continue every week—The price
for each passenger from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three
to dollars and rf"hali to York, four dollars and three quar-,
/ ters, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like funis for
ln ' ijo weight baggage, with thcrfual allowance of 14 lb.
oft gratis to each passenger, j pSuce. a ii.i'e for all way
nt. passengers. 30—§4W
ive 1 John Reilly,
e". ■ George Weed.
e as ro LET, "•
"• e _ A LaTge Cellar,
iea- Un<Ver the Meeting-House in Walr.ut-ftreet
led. Enqnire it No. 51 Second-ftrcet, corner of Chefnut-ftreet.
ne- T"'y 3° - 3t
£ A well-fini{hed„ commodious
HOUSE
■red Eo'r Sble, and immediate pojfejfion given,
:on» CMTUATE on the north fide of Spruce Ureet, Ne. 111,
ick- i O between Fourth and fifth fireets. The house, piazza
on ' and back buildings are three (lories in height, and pet feet
del- ' ly well adapted for the accommodation of a large family,
ned as they contain t .velve'good rooms, exclusive of two ciel
hert e d garrets, ln the yard, Which is neatly pavjd, there are
two puriips ; one in a rain cistern, the other of as good
water as any in the -city : The cellars are dry and large.
' The terms of payment will be easy : a great part of the
•urchafe-money in all probabilitj thay lay for years on in
terest. Apply at No. 109, next dior eaftvsard.
July ho §* w
OY, UMTED STATES, ~JZT
-"y* Pennsylvania DISTRICT, )
Notice is hereby given,
s> 6 r-pHAT pursuant to aWritto me diredled, from the ho
j , JL norable Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the Di,-
' llriil Coui-t of the United States in and fur the Pennfyha
' 1 nia Diflrift,
ur 3 Will be t-zpofed to Sale,
'tgh.
at the Cuflom-Houfe, on Monday, the 15th day of Au
litto. g U st, 3 Bags of COFFEE
oq I Bbl. SUGAR
' 3y 1 Half do. do.
, . a Do. do. TAMARINDS
does „ ,
i;f. v 3 Kegs do.
„ ' » Bags of Sugar and
3 D 6 Coffee
• The fame having bees libelled against. prosecuted, and
condemned as forfeited, in the said court-
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
-Brae MarOial's Offire. toth luly. 1796.
laives y Arliu itudeut at iVir. (Jelters's Hotel,
name
sin MINIATURE LIKENESSES
ARE taken and executed in that elegant and delicate
(lile, which is so neceflary to render a Miniature Pic
about tnre an interelling jewel.
>e ap- He will warrant a strong and indisputable resem
blance; and he takes the liberty to lay before the pnblic
r ' of this place his moll earned intention to deserve their pa
rw ' tronage by his bed endeavors to plenfe.
m the 1 jj_ Specimens ate W be seen.
uppo- J May it. 5
*Just Published,
HY THOMAS DOBSON?
At the Stone House, No. 41, fduth Second flrcct, '
nently printed in one volume quarto, price fix
dollars the fine paper, or five dollats the com- <
mon: • ,
The Four Gospels,
TRANSLATEDfrotn the GREEK, with PRE. 1
•LIMINARY DISSERTATIONS, and notes '
CRITICAL and EXPLANATORY,
By GEORGE CAMPBELL, D. D. F. R. S.
&e.
Principal of Marifchnl College, Aberdeen.
*#* Th» character of the Author for acutenefs
and emdition has been eftabVirtied by his efTay on
miracles in answer to David Hume," the grqatcft
masterpiece of the kind ever puhltfhed, and by his
" Philosophy of Rhetoric," and to the merit of
the present work, the result of nearly forty year*
:iudy and application, and the fublUncc of his
course of le&ures in his official capacity, the
reviewers have grren ample teftirnony, but their ac
count, however honorable U> the work, is too long
for a place in this advertisement, the woik howev
er is übw presented in an American edition at not
mure than half the price of the London copy.
July 20. 4w2w
uniisd states, 1 •>,*. : . Tr
, PINNSYLVAmA DItTRTCT, j «•
IN THE NAME AND BY THE AUTHORITY
OF THE UNITED STATES,
By WILLIAM NICHOLS,
MsrQial of; the Rennfyhrania DiftricSt, —
A PROGLAMAT I-O N.
WHEREAS the C'ongreft of the United States, at
the fir ft icffioH of the fourth Congress, toWit, on
ihe twelfth day of May last past, passed an 4<S, "to repeal
so much of an a&, intituled " an a& to establish the
judicial Courts of the United States", as that the
alternate feflions of the Circuit Court for Hie i)ifiriA of
Petinfylvahia, (hallbeholden at Yorktown ; andforother
purposes, in the follow ing words, to wit.
Fourth Congress of tfce United States :
At the firft fefiion, beguß and held at the city of Phila
delphia, in the State of Peniifylvania. on Monday, the
seventh of December, one thoufafld few en hundred and
nine y-five.
An A<2 to repeal fomucb of an aft, intituled "an aift to
eftablith the judicial courts of the United States"', as dj
reAs that alternate feflions of the laid circuit court for
the ditfriift of Pennsylvania shall b« ho Id en at York
town ; and for other pufpofet.
Sect. I. BE it ena&cf by the Senate and House of Re
presentatives of the United States of America,"in CoJl
grefs assembled, That so much of the fffth fe&ion of tie
a<ft, intituled " an acS to establish the judicial eoarts of.
t*tie United States", as direAt that alternate felons of the
circuit court for the diftrirft of Pennsylvania shall be hold-
M at Yorktown, be, and the fame is hereby repealed;
and that all the feflions of the said circuit court (hall, from
and after the paffihgof tfiis aift, be holden at the city df
Philadelphia, excepting only, when at any session of the
fludcMrf, th« judges thereoflfhall di/e<st the neirt'feflion
to be holden at YorVtow* J which they are hereby autho
rized a«l empowered to do, whenever it shall appear to
diefo to'benecelfarjr.
Sea. 11. And be it further enaAed, That all fych pro
«efi of the said court, as may have iifued before tfiepafs
itig of this aft, and aU recognizances returnable, and all <
ftrts aad other proc'oefings that were continued to the ,
said circuit court for the dillriiS of Pennsylvania,' on the
eleventh of October next, in VorktoTYii, Pi\!l now be re
turned, and held continued, to the fame' co'vrt, on tKi
fame day, at Philadelphia. And to the end tKat suitors,
witnefTes, arid all others concerned, may have notice of
the alteration hereby made, the MarftaJ of the said dif
trrift h'hereby required to make the' fame known, by pro
clamation, on or before the firft day of Afguft next.
Jonathan Dayton,
Speaker of , the House of P eprefcntatiVes.
SAMUEL LIVERMORi,' "
President of the Senate, {>ro tempore.
Approved, May the twelfth, 1796,
Georos Washington,
President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls, in the Office of the Depart
ment of State,""
Tjmothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
I. DO HEREBY MAKE KtfOWN, that all fu?h
procefs'of the said court at has, or may be issued, and all
tecognizancet returnable at Yurknm aforefaid, on the tie
vtntb day if Qfltiet next, will be returned to the Circuit of
the United States, at the City Hall, in the city of Phila
delphia, onTucfduy, the eUtiiutb day of O&ober next, at
t eleven o'clock in the forenoon, And that all fnits and other
proceedings that wcte=t jntinued to the said court at York
town, will be held and continuid at the said Circuit
Court, at Philadelphia, dn'the fame Eleventh day of O&o- ■
ber next, «f V*Vnth all perfotis ioaacrhed are desired tp '
take notice, and give their attendance thereat. " : I
CIVEN under my hand/ at mV officii, in'the Diftrid
of P*nttfyh-ania, day"of July,' (
in the year'of our Lord one thousand seven hun- 1
dred and ninety-Ex, arid of our Independence the 1
. rtirenty-firft. " - VAv~ - .v .
WILLIAM NICHOLS^
MarJhaU \
;^ 7 ..
J • -"fQ; Kl S A £/'JSj • I
A very. Valuable feftate,
CALLED TWITTENHA M, situate in" the
townffllip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,"
f s-2 miles fr«m PbiiidelphiaJ'and half a rnlle frbiif'the
new Weftcrnroidi containifeg-ajoacfWof excellent lan'j,
06 are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wo6d-
Jarid, and the reft arable of the firft quality. There are
on the premifeSa good two story brick h«ufe, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, Vrth a pump-Well
of excellent water in front; a lirge frame barn, ftabks,
and other convenient buildings ; a fmokc-houfe and stone,
fpwrig'-boftfe j two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are allln croVer, cxcept immedrately
iiiwjer tillsge,- arid are so laid 'out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing." -
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
enltivation of the land, the : good neighbourhood, and thv
vicinity to the city, it is Very fait able for a gentleman's
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
.. deceased, and offered for falc bv '
, Mordecai Lewis,
Q<sl. 9. ea.] Surviving Executor.
FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN away from the' fubferiber living near Church
Hill. Qu'-en Anns County in the State of Maryland*-
abcut the fir!t of January last, a black negro man, named
Sam, about thirty years of age, 5 feet 8 or 9 inches high,
has a crooked finger on one hand, and one leg and foof
smaller than the other, somewhat rpund-flwjuldered, His
clcathing unknown. Any person who wilt secure ms
bring said fellow home, so that I may get him again lhall
have the above reward with reasonable charges. -
WILLIAM JACOBS.
June 4. "lawsm.
Mr. FRANCIS,
[Of the New Theatre )
TAKES this opportunity of returning thapks to his
scholars and to the public; Mr. Franc's inte»3s :
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters bimfelf that his attention to- his pupils hi
therto renders any promises of conducting h'u future
schemes on the molt liberal a/icfllridlell terms, of pro
priety, tot illy unnecefTary.
A r . B. Private tuition as ulual.
June 3 law
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Liberties and diftriil of
Southwark ; 'V- .
'.! Published, and fold-by
-BENJAMIN DAVIES, _ ....,
No. 68, High street,
(Price one dollac.)
THIS plan is 16 inches square, and has been en
graved by one of (he firft artists In the city, from a late
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving — some account of the
cSy, its population) trade, government, &c.
July 19 tn&ftf
For Sale,
A LARGE ELECANT AND FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart),
WITH a LOT of GROUND thereunto belonging,
the weft fide of Third-ftreei, near Union-street
containing in front 31 feet, and in depth too feet, to an
alley leading into Union-ftrce{. The house it 37 feet front
and so fe'et deep ; the several rooips contained in it are
large, commodious, and completely finiflicd; the two firft
stories are each 13 feet high ; there are 20 mahogany
doors in,the house ; a geometrical staircase, with mahoga
ny rails and a g*o<l iky-light. The Kitchen it in the ceH
ar, which is spacious and convenient, and finiftied, with an
oven, stew-holes and pantries, a fei"v»nts' hall and large
wine-cellar adjoinhtg the kitchen, in front of which is an
area in which thirt Is a 'pump. The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat tbrce-ftory
brick ho«fe, on the nprth fide «f Union-street, contain
ing 30 feet front by 10 feet deep; the fewer part of which
is at present occupicd as a compting-houfe, and the upper
part divided into wsll-finiffiei large chambers: Thishoiife
may at a fmati expense be converted ilrtn a convenient
4welling : Th.e ftjreet door is very hindfe/me; and the front
* n <i back have Venetian window-shutters. Adjoiningtlp:
last houfc, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are creAed
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good coach
hfttofe afcd fl&bles finifhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
the city, on alot containing on Union street Jo feet, and
in depth Oil tbc waft fide of Taid alley 51 fdet. There are
good cellars under the whole of the buildings, and a wine
room over jtfirt of theftable, with a hay-loft over the re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
" " EDWA&D BONSaLL & Co.
At their Ogee No. €4 Dock-street. Between Walnut & Pear
co. " ' flreits.
6th month 24th, 17(56,
: —: ———:
GEOJi G E BSON,
BEGS leave to inform the Store-Keepers" in Town aod
! CountfV, that hit removed from to
N Q " 2's, south' Third-street,
where he ii opening a Large and Elegant Assortment of the
undermentioned articles—lrii. " *
Superfine LofcioriClothiani Kerfeymeret,
Yorltfhire feeond Do. Do.
EUftie do. do.
Mix'd and Blue Coatings
Flannells, ice.
j Sliidheftfcr Printed Callieoet,
London Chintz ditto,
Blue ind ditto Furnitures,
India ditto.
Long Cloths, Baftis, Eattillasi Conievrems,
4-4 9"® 6"4 SBp&fin< India Book M«t!ini,
4-4 and 9-8 India Book Handkerchiefs,
4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 & 6-4 plain do. Mjjflint,
4-4 & 6-4Britifb Jaconets,'
6-4 British Checks and sfri pes,
4-4 India do.' do. d«. '
4-4 ditt«i.€hiHoes, Madrat Handkerchiefs, &e.
A large altortmcnt of .figur'd arid plain M'uflintA,
Quilrings, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
Fancy WaiftcoatingS,
Ginghams of the firft Qjiality, fubjeft to Drawback,
India Warikeens,
Men's'WHite and coloured Silk (lockings.
,9
Samuel Richardet,
D. EiSPECTFULLY informs the Gcntlimen ,
Merchants, that he hasihis day opened the CTI?Y
TAVERN and MERCHANTS OOFFEp HOUSE in Ae
city of Philadelyhia:
r be Subscription Room will be furnilhfd witb all the
daily papers publiflied in Philadelphia, Naw-York, Bos- .
t«n, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com- .
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
arid none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes,'Jelliet, lit Cfcutis, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the Ofual r'cfrefhmentsf , !
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with '
the choiccft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the roll
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will be supplied with the prime and earKeft •
produfUons of tho Season.
Large and fnsall Parties, or fingleGentlemsn, may be j
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at '
hours most convenient to themselves—a Cold Cdllation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had '
at tho bar.
The Lodging Rqcujis wiU be completely furnifced, and !
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
® Richarket will be hippv to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friend:, the Public at
Wi£h S«titude for their favours, he pledget '
himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting *0 pre
fepte that patronage with which he his been f Q diftbguifh
ingly Honored. , , '
Philadelphia, April 19. eo
For Sate,
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
IN New Jersey, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbour.
The Gfift Mill it sixty by fertj feet, two water wheels,
and calculated for four run of Stones, with screen, fans'
and boulting-cloths, &c. The Saw-Mill has two
capable ofcuttingfiveto 6 100 thousand feet of Boards per
year. A valuable piece of Cedar Swamp, within a mile
ahd a half oT the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
of a Landing. The Lumber,*icc. may be taken by water
from the mill tail.
'• Atso rOR SALS,
Several Valuable Tracts of Land,
In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be rec-iv
edin"the notes of MefTrs. Morris and Nicholfon, or in
Cafli."' ' ■■■>•■
For further information apply to tht Printer
May 17- '• - ' ' aaw
I
Philip Nicklin & Co.
'have FOR- sale,\
Souchong
' liyfon Skin /
Young Hyson i s-AS
Hyi'on and \
Imperial
: Yellou-Nank;ei:s
China Ware, afForted-fti Boxes md Chelts
Quicksilver
Bandan&o Handkerchiefs of excellent quality Sa
cheils
London Market "J> MADEIRA WINE
London particular' >ia ]sipes, hogfni-aiJjj &
New-York Market J quarter calks
f Teneriffe Wine in pipes and ho£tie i ads
•I - Sugar Candy by the Bex
Saii Canvas No. I a 8
Le4d ih fttetj ' *' ' . **
j Cllks of Cutlery affcrted
A fewrheftsof IVJanchefter Good*, aiTofttd thitk
fets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages o!f black fewiog-fijki
8 Tj<rces Virginia Snake-foot.
' Nails aflbrted iti calks
July 18 mwAf
JOHN PAUL JONES.
INFORMATION is hereby given, that the late John
Paul Jotfes. was a proprietor of fire (hares (amount
ing to ahout 5867 leres) in atraS of land purchased by
the Ohio Company, in the territory of tht; United. States
of America,'north-weft of tlje river Ohio ; and that hjy
heirs, er legal 011 application. to direc
tors of laid company, at Marietta in the territory afore
n said, will receive a deed of the said 'five {hares, or' rights
t of land.
e The b« madcpcrfonally or by an agent,
Ji but proper documents mull be prod)Jj:edi to prpT?, tlje.
jr claimant dr claimants the legal heirs or of
- the ftrj'jones.'
ji'.a. As it is nor known in what country the person j
1 or pjirfbes interfiledrcfide,'it will be an ofbenevolerti
2 in every Printer in aqs Xaropg, wfyp flifill infect
\ this advertisement in his p^jer.
;. In behalf of tie dire&ors of the Ohio Company.
r f T KUFt)S PUTNAM.
Marietta, May 20,1796. 1 3iwtjw
l ! . -iJU —
Law Book-Store,
No, 313, High Street.
c /"I EORQEDAVIS begs to inform hj?.prpfe® a njl ;
j V-X friendf, that per the arrived from Lon
_ don, he has received the following scarce and valuable
y books. State Trials, ir vol* in 6 and 11 vol. R'yfF
-1 head's Statutes at large, 16 vol. Woods' Inftitutesj
e Coke's Entries, Kartell's do. Browne's do. flearnes
t pleader, Coke's id, 3d, and 4th Institutes, % vol. Roll's
- Abridgment, Brooke'* do. Bulllrode's Reports, Koll's
do. 2 vol. in 1, Fioyers Pi;<uJlor's pra&ice, Clarke's
Admiralty, Rutherford's Institutes, Deinoiogy, or the
' Eloquence and togic of the Bar. Thefc with his very
large' collecftion from Dublin now on hand, will enable
him to supply an entire library Or a lihgle book, it
gentlesaen may have o»cafion 011 their immediate ap-
o;.i£. ,T,T- ' ■ v > . "
1 July 14- ?» 2wlw
| ( «... j ....... , . .
City cf Wa(hington.
: SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, &} j .
dWelling-house, 5 cafli '30,000, are ) i°' ooo
r ditto 15,000 & cast 25,000 40,000
I ditto 1 j,OOO &'ca(h 15,000 30,000
1 dhto 10,000 ft cafli io,Octo 20,000
I ditto SjSQO &'ca(h 5,000 10,000
I ditto jjooo & cash 5,000 10,000
I tafti prize of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each, are, • 10,000
to do. 1,000 - • 10,090
ao do. 500 - - 10,000
oO do. 100 - - 10,00 a
*00 d»; - . 16,000
400 do. 25 - 10,000
I) 000 do. ao - 20,000
15,000 do* lo • • Jjy,ooo
1 ®>739 Prizes.
3i>»6i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 40,0000
N. B ; To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the Last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
.B r JP"zpV "in ten days aher drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 ticket*.
Tlus Lottery wiU afford an elegant specimen of the pri- 1
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of' Walhinrton—
Two beautiful designs are already felefted for the entire .
fronts on t#o of the public fquates; from tliefe prawin&s'
It ispropofed to ered two centre and four corner buildings,
, " soon »' pof'ble after this lottery is fold, and to convey
t era, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduclion.of five per cent, will be made to defrky
the necessary expenses of printing, Sic. and the ftirplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be within the city of Washington.
r u wi '* commc,, ce as soon as the tickets are
fold off.--.The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is fim(h.>d ; aYid any prizes Tor which' fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the J
i r "T m ! J" C 'f d A arC Wbe confiJcrcd given toward,
the ftinJ for the University ; itT>eing determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the elding of the draw
iii|j,and to take up the bpnds given as security.
for th « payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank '
ot Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ol the lottery.
.I, l i hc eBt T f°"r gentlemen who by appointment of
Ae late Commiflioners aflifled in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requeued to undertake this arduous talk
Whaff ofthepublic; a fuffiriem num.
ber 01 these hiving kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
fijends to a National Umvrrf.ty ami the otj, X
jeers may continue to the deiign.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
• Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
Jj aTe been ftnt for fali, the public are attired that the
drawing will speedily commeaie, and that the care and
r T?l Mna I roldably nfceffal 7 insure a fafe disposal of
. tickets, has rendered the Jhort fufpenlion indilpenfable.
I .„. , L , SAMUEL BLODGET.
r T * § * J'. l at the of Columbia ;of
" J° f PetCT Gilm ' n , Lofton ;
Cooler's Ferry! n,, nd 5 ° f Richard Wslls '
• FOR SALE*
A d«"weirh? R f VIE - R,LaUw ° rn; 4 ' ) oat fourhiui
r l . ,S t- Enquire at the Office of the
of the United u 9 Chefnut-ftreet. • S
1 n 1. . *
t
X
To be Sold,
At No. 128, North Second-Street, aid by several ,f
the. Apothecaries in this City.
rR \N T SFERS of the right 10 remove p a i ns and iuflamma.
tion« from the human bady. aj secured to Dr ELtS~)/\
PERKINS, by parent, with inftru intents and dire&ions n e .
ceffary for the pra&ice. This mode of treatment it oirticu.
!arly ufeful in pjiinj in the head, lace, teethibreall
fide, ftomsch, back, rheum.itifms, recent gouts, &c. Ac. '
Notvkhftanding the utility of this praffice, it is not pre
sumed but there are cases iii which Litis and every other
: n remedy rniy, foretimes fail.
June 18, „ w
PRO P O S A L
fOll CARRYtNO T«!
Mails of the United States,
On the following routes, will be received by the Pallraidcr
at Savannah, until the lirfl day of September next.
,-t) i--From Savannah by Sun bur v J»rj_rirr L -. s
tVttK. "" j
Receive the Mai] at Savannaheverv Saturday by <1 VM
ri»e atSunbury by 6 P M, and at Newport Bridge on Sun*
day by ioA«, Returning. Leave Newport BrUgeon Sun!
day by 3 P M, a«d arrive at Sundry it} the eveoinc, and at
Savannah o» Monday by 6 P M, at
1. From Newport Rri/igcby Darienand Brunfyrick to St
; Mary's, once m tmo week >.
Re/etve the Mail at Newport Bridge every other Sunday
»o*i, and.arrive at St. Mary's t)ic next Wednefdavhy , p V f
Returning Leave St. Mary's rhe next day, Thursday by Bfi
M, and arrive at Newport Bridge the next Sunday by to \ M.
' . No,C '• H fkrof theses are altered bylaw, during the con
- of, the Contracts* the Contraflor is to o6f, refuch durations
f in cartying the mail, andhupayis tobe encreafed or dimhilhcd, in
s proportion to the Jjh nee enaeafed or dinini/hed iy fiuch alteration.
' n Ji° te 2 " 7/ " Cj " tr " dl " e "> bc '» operation on the fir aday of
■ WtWi.""/? "*&** ft'Jrnyedis until the 30 th Sebtim
. for, 1800, incM[tit:
, Note 3. TheTPofi MafierGeneral mayalt^rthe time\ of arrival
and departure at tny timciuringthc continuance of the Centos he'
prfouffitfltfinlaUng. an adefuatcconpenfaiioii for any extra ixbenH'
, ; thft may be occa filmed thereby.
i . N - ot ;' 1- /theen min-ate! for opting andelofing
the mai at alUfficcs uhere no particular time is Ipectficf.
Vn\r. & . For every hour's detityJunavoiiaUe accidents excepted!
. '"'Tr' i "r g "ff,"" time;, prefc/ibed in any contrad, the contr'aSi
fra'* JmJcil one dollar And if the delay continue until the depart
- Uteof any pending mail, uhereby for such, J*.
4 <**
i _ 'JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
-fert-Maftsr Gmcrat; —
GENERAL P?ST Offtck,
Philadelphia, June 28, t7Q6, ijwSv
r Lottery and, Broker's Office,
T_ fY$- SoiitJ)Sftpr)dfiret;t,
I S K Sr S > ~ , n Lottery No. 11, are ajWWOh
, Wc.aCheckßsok kept/of, theex
of Tickets, and Prizes paid, without dedu<sion.
; The Subscriber solicits the application'of the Public or
any of his friends who wish to purch fc or fell Bank Stock
; Certificates, Bills or Notes, Houses, Lands',
1 l.otts or Merchandize of any obtain Money
; on deposit of property. •
WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
Late Agent for the Cartel Lottery Company.
•S3" Shares an 1 Tickets in the late Newport Long
harf, Hotel and Public School Lottery examined; a
complete lift of all the prizes having been received at
this •dice. if 151'
June 6. . w&s
Forfale by the fubfertbers,
IN P£NN-STRE£T|
130 quarter Chcfts frefh Hyson Tea;
leo ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 _Boxei China, containing small tea fetti of 4»
pieces; —- ,jJr'
, 400 pieces Bindanoes.
Willing f Francis.
January 30 3 taw.
To be fold,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, conn*
ty ©f Gloucester, and (late of New-Jersey, contain*
ingaiout ofte hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
great part of the arable land is in a high state of'cultiva
tion, and very natural to the produ&ion of Red Clover;'
On said plantation there is a genteel two-dory brick house,
with four rooms on a, floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
houfe. The garden is large, and contains a good collec
tion of the bell kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees.
the orchard confiits of about three hundred grttfted apple
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premises, may
be informed ef the terms by applying to '
Andrew Hunter.
J"'y 29 '
On Monday next, ajthinft. (TulyT
Will be landed at South (Ireet wharf, the cargoes of Superb,
V* eft Indian and Isabella, frOm Jamaica and Haranna, c6n»
lifting of , u * *— ..wrv
Molafles in Hogsheads,
Coffee in hogsheads, barrels & ba??,
FCR SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT
Who has also for fait,
' A quantity of Jamaica GINGER*
Pimento & 7 T „
Cocoa, } In Ba ? 8 '
And i s o boxes Hambro' WINDOW GLASS. }by o, wUI
''" ' be fold cheip.
J u 'y 2® ~ diot & tuth & s lot
' _
No. 138.
Dijlrifl of Pennsylvania : to %uit,
BE it remembered, that on the twenty-fourth day of Juqe r
in the (wentiath year of the Independence of the United
States of America, John Ormrod, of the Dillrift hath
deposited in this office the title of a book, the right whereof
he claims as Proprietor, in the words followingi to wit :
* 4 (hort and candid Enquiry into the proofs of Christ'?
41 divinity; in which Doctor Priestley's opinion cdncerniug
'* Christ is occasionally considered. In a letter" to a fn«ii3*.
" By Charles H. Wharton, D. D. and Member of rt)e
Philefophieal Society of Philadelphia. &
11 Wmjfoever drnicth the Son the fame hath not the Fath-
Let that therefore abide in you whuii ye have heard
•Mrom the beginning ; if thar which yc
<4 beginning ftiall remain in y6»i, yc also shall continue in
44 the ion and in the father. St. John, iftEpift. c. ii. v«>3»
«i M
in conformity to the aft of the Congress of the United State*
intituled 44 An aft for the encouragement of learning, by ' r -,
curing the copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the authors
• and proprietors of such copies, during the times therein
mentioned.' SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Cleik of the DiflriS of Pen*fyWai.ia.
i June2g
>
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. ixg—
CHESN VT-STREET.
[Pri«c Eight Dollars per ATLsam-j