w. . Sy .
* ' ' 'T, 3
oftbe MftltttJ JsittlftS, 6* Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Hams* 1247.] ___ WEDNESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 7, .1706. *• •
FOR SALE.
The BrI S PUNCH,
An entire new veflel, built, finifhed and fitted'
in the bed manner. One hundred and thirty-fix
tons burthen, and will fail remarkably fall. Foi>
term J apply to Mr. N. Sage, at the George tavern,
or t o JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
AuguJ 26, 1796. §10.
For Sale or Charter,
2000 Bbls. of flour—{he may b»- ferrt
to sea at a faiall expence, her fails and rigging being in
very good order—ajjply to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
, April 19, 5_
. T ~~ FOR SALE,
fkk. The (hip STAR,
John Vannkma.n, Master,
T YING at Walnut-ftrset wharf, Philadel-
I j phia built, of live oak and cedar, will
carry about 3100 barrels, is two years oid; and in com
rlea order to receive a cargo—For terras apply to
F " THOS. & JOHN KETLANp.
Who have also for sale said vessels cargo—consisting of—
Wine and Porter bottles,
Wind, w Glass, 6 by 8 to j6 by 12.
Pipes in boxes. ,
Earthen-Ware in cratrs.
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, &c.
Aug. 29
For Sale or Charter,
' THE FAST-SAILING SHTP
LIGHT-HORSE,
LYING at Melf. J. & R. Wain's wharf,
two hundred and seventy tons burthen, 3 (lout, ftror.g
vessel. and well found. For terms apply to
Joseph Anthony & Co. ,
Sept. I. j i!l
At South-street wharf,
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft. August,
by snow, Hope, from Jamaica, and (loop Sally,
from Port-au-Prince, .
joo Hhds. COFI'LE,
70 Hhds. SUG AR.
Also, the cut jo of the Swedijh brig Guflaf Adolphe,
capt. Ramfre, from Gibraltar,
ill and 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
Hazle Nuts in sacks
Si. Übes SALT, for sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
. For Charter,
The said brig
Gost'a'f Adolphe,
V A Swede, with a Mediterranean pass,
, -»SSSU)E£ » very fin» »l>"»t ion tons blir
ih f - n . Sue. 18. fiweSiW
7— —
For Sale,
Or for Charter to the Weft-Indies,
THE SHll'
C E R si S,
Philadelphia Built,
7~\V Live Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 3.500 bar-
U re ls, now discharging at Latimer's wharf. 11ns ves
sel is in excellent repair, well fouud and will bear a tho
rough examination, and as soon as difenarged will be rea
dy to take in- a cargo. For terms apply to
John Vaughan.
July 28 ■ IL_
~ "ROSS & SIM SON,
HAVE FOR S«iLE,
EXCELLENT FOURTH PROOF
Jamaica Spirits;
The fine, f a ft- iai 1 i boo ncr
Of about 140 tons burthen.
August 2g. dtf
tfpiilip Nickiin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
' Souchong -
ifyfon Skin /
Young Hyson V FRESH TEAS
Hyson and \
Imperial
Yellow
' Ghiaa Ware, afiorted in Boxes and Chefls
Quickfiiver
liandanrio Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
chest;
L -ndon Market } MADEIRA WINE
London particular >- in jripes, hogflseads, &
• New-York Market J quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and lioglbeads
Sugar Candy bythe Box
Sail Canvas No. i a 8
Lead in sheets
3 Calks of Cutlery afiorted
A few.cheftsof Manchester Goods, aflbrted thick
sets, cords, iiriped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Nails afibrted in calks '
July 18 mw&f
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE-
No. 6; South Third ftraet, oppofito the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FR.iUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnerfnip, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in th: bulinefs of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Comniiffion merchants. They buy arul
fell on commiflion every species of (lock, notes of hand,
bill* of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Mostr procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c'
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnels and
difpateh ; accounts adjulted, <snd books fettled, in the
moS sorreift manner. Coflftant attendance will be giver:
They foKcit a ftiare of the public favor ; they are deter
mines! to endeavour to defcryc it.
N. B. The litmoft secrecy pbferved.
SAMUEL M. 7RAUNCXS,
W.N KEED.
i'iiilad. August 47, 179°- mAwtf
French Goods.
Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Ha vre-de• J \
Grace, #
20 Trunks'), u
I Cafe j Ladies SHOES of all colors forts-and sizes D<
I Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS
X Ditto Fine LAWN
t Dittobeft fine CAMBRIC
I Ditto Ladies' best ft am my and Grenoble Gloves
Fpr Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
*"g' *4 , $ ' r
FOR SALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
in pipes and hogsheads ' . T
Claret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland E
Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, in hogsheads t t
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
I?arLead, Red and white dry lead F
Steel, German and Russia, in barrels
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpoiin canvas, B
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by A
THOMAS k JOHN KETLAND.
J'dy •<> p
FOR SALE, a
A Complete Font of Brevier,
ENtirely new, and yet unopened. The weight of this *"
font is about lb. It is from the rounder/ of
NVilfor. 3i Sons, Glafgow,and will be fold at cost & charges, h
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
Enquire at the Ofllcc of the Gazette of the TJnitde p
States, 119 Chefnut-llreet. Aug. 19 §4w t!
C A B L E S,
From 16 to 9 £ inches, for sale by
Jeremiah Warder, ,
Juty"»J: § llo :jl iiurrhTh-fttrfh-CTt.
—
A very .valuable Merchant Mill,
A DISTILLERY and BREWERY, and sundry STONE 4
QUARRIES to be let'.
I will rent my merchant Mill .at the little Po- v
towmic, for any term not less thanfeven, nor more Than
eleven years, from the firft day of September next. The
mill-house is 42 by 40 feet,. three stories high, built with
Hone, and has in it three pairs of French Burr Stones, tv.v
ovcrlhot 18 feet water wheels, and Evans's macjiinery
> complete, with every other thing proper and ncccffary for
1 carrying on the bufincfs wrjth dilpateh, and at as little e^-
penfe as pofiible, all in good order.—From the mill to my
landing on the Fotomac river, (wherecraft, of any bur
then may deliver graip and take in flour) it is l about 40
yards, and from thence by water to George-Town and
1 the City of Walhingtus, about 3 miles, and to Aicxan-
dria about 11 miles. This fifuation, aided by a fufficient'
capital, will command the produce of a vefy cxtennve
back country, where large quantities of whuat and other 1
grain is annually made, the distance to it being from 8 u
to 10 miles less than to any maikct town up jn the l'lavi
jation of the Pdtonrmaf. Thite are on the ■premises a
large done Coopers'/hj'p, a (lone granary, and '
dious miller's liohfe. At the landing afofd'aid a bridge
is now building over the Potomac, wliich is in great for- -
w»rcViefs and probably will fee finifhed the erifuing fall. si
' T-hsre ate alfg.on the jyemifes, a Brewery and Dittille
fy, built witTi itone, .in them are three stills. two cogper; I
or boilers, with every necelTary article, ail new, and "in a
good order, and fufficiently luge to carry on the Bi ev
ery and Dillillery upon » very cxtehfive plan. This prop- f
erty I will rentier the'fame term of years. ,
Upon my lands adjoining the preniifes, and along the
banks of the l iver, where craft may lead with ease and dif
patcli, is an i illhelife quantity of building and founda
tion-(tones. Four quarries'are now open, and as many
more may be opened with ease : the done taken from these
quarries is better, and has the preference at this macket,
to any other stone brought to it. I will rent these quarries
separately or together as may bed suit. ,
On the top of the hill, and about 200 yards from the
milt, is s stone Dwelling-hoiife, large enough for the ac
commodation of a family.: also, a kitchen, dairy, smoke- I
house, &c. and a garden, enclosed and in cultivation, the <
foiof which is equal in goodness to any in this' (late. I i
will also rent this property. c
Adjoining to the Brewery and Diftillcry is a Smith's I
fliop, in which is a complete set of Blacksmith's tools, t
which 1 will also rent, and if agreeable I wilj hire to the
tenant two negro blacksmiths, one of them is a complete .
workman.
It I rent out the stone guarrics, I will fell three crafts,
which were built for the purpose of carrying stone t they
will altogether bring upwards of 90 perch. Immediate
pofTeffion will be given. For terms apply to the fybferib
er in this town.
The Mill, Brewery and Distillery, with their appurten
ances, will b*e deliver ad to the tenant or tenants in good '
repair, and muftbe so returned, at the expiration of the
lease orleafes. t .
FHII.IP RICHARD FENDALL. y
Alexandria, Aug. >6— 25
—— t
For Sale, i
A LARffiF. ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
Three-ftor.y Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
R VIJ i l'H a LOT ef GROUND thereunto belonging,
VV the weft fide: of Third-street, near Union-street
containing in front 32 feet, and in depth 100 feet, to an
* alley leading into Union-llrect. The house is J2 feetfront
apd 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it arc
large, commodioHS and completely finilhed; the two firft
stories are each 13 feet high; there are 20 mahogany
doors in the house; a geometrical (laircafe, with mahoga
ny rails and a good sky-light. l'he kitchen is in the cell
ar, which is spacious and convenient, and finiftied with an
- oven, (lew-holes and pantries, a servants' hall and large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an
area in which there is a pump The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said buildint is a neat three-ilory
brick horde, on the north fide of Union-street, contain
ing 3° feet front by 20 feet deep; the lower part of which
is at present occupied as a compting-houfe, and the upper ! ]
part divided into well-finiftied large chambers. This house
may at a fntiall expense be converted into a convenient <
dwelling: Theftreetdoor is very handsome, and the front <
• and back have Venetian window-!hutters. Adjoining the (
. last house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are Veiled 1
f bathing-rooms, &c. There arc Ukewife very good coach- 1
, house and stables finifhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
1 the city, on a lot containing on Union ilreet 30 feet, and
> in deptholl the waft fide of said alley 52 feet. There are
good cellars unde. the whole of the buildings, and a wine
' room over part of the liable, with a hay-loft.over there
I maihder. For further particulars enquire of
; I'D WARD BOXS.-tLL & Co. '
At :h:ir Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Pear
' co (Ireets.
6th rror.th 84th, 1796,
If ANTE D,
An APPRENTICE to the Prifting Bufmefs.
at tkis ©dice. Aug. 19
' I ' ■ I '
INFORMATION
IS given daily of the drawing of tbe WASHINGTON \
LOTTERY, at the Ofticc /
No. \47 Chafnut Jlrect,
between Fourth an.f Fifth ftreyts." Also, where Tickets
may yet be had. Sept. I. eo ]
The Sixteenth and Seventeenth Days drawing is
arrived,.
S T O L E~NT
' From ,'be tiotiMixz-Hmrf? if RALPH TM F I?,
No. 12, Qrtarry-Jlrcct, on Saturday or Sunday night
the fitlowing Notes, &c.
; , DOLLARS.
John Nicholfon, to Moorhoufe; due Nov.
I, 1797, bearing interest, . - - 5000
David AUifon ta James Cramond, due hi
March last, - 407J'
J: W. & W. Gibhs to Ralph Mither, it 70 t
days, August a»th, ... 16SI 98 "
Ferdinand Gourdon to Ralph Mather, at four -
months, Augufl 17th, ... 264 $3
Benjamin Ohamherlain,at 60 days, August 6, 213 53 "
Affleck to Jos. Bufwell, at 6 months, dated k
May - - . * r 180.64
Parker and Greaves to Ralph Mather, on de- I
raand* - - - - too
A bill 'by Harford to Harford, not accepted, 1811. ster
ling. f
Likewise, the Titles of feme Estates, Mortgages, &c.
Whpfoevcr brings the thief or thieves to justice, stall
have a reward of twenty dollars.
As the papers m queliion can be of no use to any other
person, the bills having been (topped payment, request
the perpetrators may be searched after with all imagina
ble care.
September 6. tw&f '
Sales of India Gpods.
The Cargo of the Ihip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal-
Oltr* nc] Dcngul,
CONSISTING OK
A Large and general afiortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A vanity fine worked and plain Mujlins,
Doreas, t3V. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—anil BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
( Willings Francis,
No. 21 Pen n Street.
June 8 §
TAKE NOTICE,
, qnllAT application wilt b* made for the renewal of
JL the following certificates, iiTuecl by Joseph Nourfe,
Register of the Treafijry, in the name of Roger Gril
wold, Efq._ of Norwich, Connedlicut—
I certificate, fix per cent domestic stock, No. 13,907
—dated the 17thDecember, 179J, bearing interest from
the fir ft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65-joo dpl
i ditto, thret per cent..domestic flock, No. 10,682
—dated December 16, 1795? bearing interest from the
firft day of January, 1791, for 9,94 30-100 dollars.
1 d;tt , deferred stock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th
December, 179J, bearing interest from the firft Janu
ary, itoi, For 79E 83-103 dollars.
Said'cenificates are fuppoied to have been loft or
■ fto'en in this citv some tiru? in December or Januaiy
last. ' JOSEPH IHOMAS,
No. 59, North Front-ftrtet.
Philadelphia, July 21, 1796. d6w.
t ■ ■ '
At a special meeting cf the Board of Di
rettrjfs for ejiahl'ijb'ing u/eful Manufactures, holden
1 at Paterfrm. July 8, I79^>
RUSOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock
. holders of the Society be called on the firft Monday,
. being the third ay of October next, at Paterfon, by ten
; of the clock of the fame-day; then and there to take
[ into consideration the propriety of difTolving the laid
corporation, agreeably to the law in such cafe made and
s provided—and the, Stockholders are earnestly reqiufted
~ to attend the'faid meeting in person or by proxy.
: Augnft 17 dt3othO
DUTY ON CARRIAGES."
'
: Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an aft of Congress of the United
Statesof America, parted at Philadelphia, (he 28th day
' of iviav, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey
ance of persons, and repealing the former as.s for that pur
- pose—TJiat there'(ball bo levied, colle&ed and paid, upon
all carriages for the conveyance of perlons, which shall be
kept by or for any person, for his or her own use, or to let
•out to hire, or for the conveying of pafTengers, the several du»
tie* and rates folio wing, to wit.
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every. Chariot, 1 2 dols.
upon every Post Chariot. 12 doll/
every Post Chailc, 12 dols.
upon every Phaeton, with 01 without top, gdols
upon every Coachee, 9 dola.
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work above,
with blinds, glasses or curtains, 9 doll.
n upon four wheel carriages, having framed posts and
t tops with iteel springs, 6 dote.
c upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
I springs or jacks, 3 dols.
y upon curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon chai/es with tops, 3 dols.
uuon chairs with tops, 3 dols.
a upon f alkies with tops, 3 dois.
up" other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
lYpor. two wheel carriages, with llcel or iron springs,
™ 3 dols.
" For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols.
upon everyfdflr wheel carriage, having framed polls
and tops, and reiiiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
The Coll'tlors of the Revenue ot the firft survey of the
r DiihiCt of Pennsylvania, will attend daily, unt i.lthe 30th day
c! of September next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on
1 Carnages, at No. 117, in Race or Saffafra.? ftrcet, in the City
t! of Philadelphia, at the houie of Daniel S. Clair, E f cj in the
e i County of Montgomery ; and at the houlc of .Abraham Du
d feois, Esq. in the Coubty of Bucks; of which all persons poi
- leifed of such Carriages are deft red to take notice.
n Notice is also given,
J TO all retail dealers in \Vmes, and foreign difliiled fpiri
c: tuous liquor's, thai licences will be.granted to them ; one li 1
c cence for carrying on tbe business of retailing ot Wines, in a
iefs quantityj or in less quantities than 30 gallons—-and one ,
licence for carrying on the business of retailing Spirituous li- (
ouors in lefsquaiVities than 20 gallons, at tbe fame time and
ir at the famfc places, by tUe officers legally authoriaed to grant
fucb licences. . • '
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeilor of the Revenue of the 6rft survey
of ih6 dift/ift of Fer.ni";, Ivania.
Office of InfpeOion,at i 3*
PiuladclpbU, 2ift July, 1796. >
" " " FOR SALE,
COFFEE, in hhds. bbls. & bags )
COTTON, of Demerata, and > entitlcdto drawback
30AL-LEA I HfXT >
Also,
BOSTON BEEF, and Mould and Dipt CANDLES.
Apply to ISAAC HARVEY, }■■■ n.
No. 5 south Wat«r-ftreet.
8 mo. in. $? u '
70.000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of Ybe bcjt on reaftmrbh frrrmi,
FOR SALE av
Philip Nick!in & Co.
August 26. dtf
A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's place is wajated by a perfori properly quali*
fied, and w : w >fe will be fqfUnd unexceptioxi*
able." Apply to the Printer.
Aug. II
St. Croix SUGAR and MOLASSES.
Landing from on board th«; fchoopcr Little Torn, Capt.
Thomas Dennett, at Racc-ftrcet wharf,
A choice parcel of St. Croix Sugar,
and a few hogsheads of Molafles>
For Sale by
Fragers and Co.
August 30 dio
Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li
verpool,
5000 Bushels SALT ;
too Crates QUEENS WARE; and
An Aflortment of SHIP CHANDLERY ;
fin a s A L E
On board, at Pine-street wharF."—Apply to
fames Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April 29.
Dutch Goods,
Received by the Pennfyivania, front Amjlerdam.
GIN, in pipes
Moriaix
Tickliuluugs C In Bales
Ofnaburgs j
SX } ■ .
Hollands 7 DUCK/'m ditto
Ravels }
Bedticks, in ditto
Briuagiie. j ditto
Platilles )
For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KET/.,IND.
AUg. IIJ __ S
Carolina Rice,
In tierces—
A few pipes of fourth proof Brandy,
7 by g and 8 by 10 Window Gl'afs,
for Sale by-
Gurney Ssf Smith.
August >31. * d 6
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
facet, between Front and Second ftrsets, in which
MeffVs. James Calbraith &Qo. have for many years (and
now do) carried on bufmds.
j Pofloflion will be given in one month, or fooncr.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
Apsil 21. §
1 JUST PUBLISHED,
j And for Sale at the A>oj> of WILLIAM COBBEIT,
oppojrte Chriji Church,
* A Print, entitled
The SWAN and, the WICK,
Or the Treaty of Amity and Commerce ftornfully
1 rejedled.
May be hai at'the fame place—
PQRCUPINE, a tirint.
The BLUE SHOP, a pamphlet.
A FILL FOK P. P. uo.
I The IMPOSTOR DETECTED, do.
' Sept. # 5 3
; F 0 11 S AL E,
c t A very Valuable Estate,
/■"CALLED TIV/7 T-E tf HA M, situate in the
townfliip of Upper Derby, Sfhd county of Delaware,
7 i-2 miles from Phiiadrlphia, and half a niile from the
new Weflern road: containing 2,1,0 acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of tha firft quality. There are
011 the predlifes a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
011 a floor, and cellars under the whole, \yith a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, ftabies,
,1 and other convenient buildings,; a smoke-house and stone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
n es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
tinder tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The situation is pleafantandhealthy, and from the high
cultivation of thfjland, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman'*
'1 country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
deceased, and offered for sale by
l$ Mordecai Lewis,
ie Oft. 9. eo.] Surviving Executor,
y — -——— 1 "
,n Lottery and Broker's Office,
e No. 64, South Second stksst.
i- r-picKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. •», for sale—a
"" X Check. Book for examination —and prizes paid in
the late lottery. . . , ,
Check Books kept for examination and regiftermg, for
the City of Waihington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
i both ef which are now drawing—information where
1 tickets are to be had, and prizes'exchange'd for undrawn
ie tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New
i- Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
d examination. .
lit T hc fubferiker solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificate*,' Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
iy gr, or to obtain money on deposit of property.
Wm. Blackbvn.
| Philadelphia, iiupif 18, 179^-.
. %
Great is Trvth and mti/t prevail. '■
f*
JUST PUBLISHED,
Andfir fate at No- 41 Chefnut-Jlreet by J. ORMROD,
An Apology for the Bible, I
By R. Watson, d. d. f. r. s. i
Bifkop of Landaff, &c. I
Being a complete refutation of Paine's 1
Age of Reason, F
And the only answer to the Second Part.
August 30. » I dtf
Prime St. Croix Sugar & Rum,
Landing at Cliffords Wharf, from onboard the brig v
Pragcrs, Capt. Thomas Watson— c
And For Sale by
Pragers & co, j
AuSuft 16. dlot -
Wm. HOLDER.NESSE, [
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivab from Europe and
the East Indie*, a well feleftcd assortment of Silk
Merciry, Linen Drapery and Hafeerdaftery Goods; which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms;
AMONGST WHICH J?RE, (
Some fine India muslins em'oroidertd with gold and fflver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
Do ' do do do Handkerchiefs *
Some extra black taffeties,lut«£lringsand colored Persians I
Bandano Handkerchiefs **
Long and short Nankeens e
English Mantuas of the firft quality v
Damaflc table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant assortment
Thead and cotton do a
. Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd de. and do cloth c
French cambrics, very fine n
Irilh Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 § (
Lottery ' *
FOR raising fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven p
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per j]
. cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz. f
I Prize of 5003 dollars is dollars .5000
X 1000 iooo ®
4
3 —r 7- aoo ioco
40 100 1000 (
99 So 49.5°
»oo is J°°°
tooo 10 ao,ooo
5 Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000 v
t
333 a Prizes. 44,4J0 (3
4018 Blanks. j
63J0 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44.4J0 '
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftabtith- 11
ing UtfefulManufactures, the fuperintendants of the pat- ]
erfon Lftttery have requested the Managers to offer the \>
foregoing Scheme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to ihofe persons who have
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery. 1
The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes 1'
may be seen at the oflice ot William Blackburn, No. 64 t
south Second street, who will give information where tick- j
ets may be procured. .
Dited this 17th day of June, 1796. '
J. N- CUMMING, ~) c
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, Managers. a
JONATHAN RHEA, )
dtf eo j
.Treasury of the United States. 0
NOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums n
■of the Funded Debt, or Stock, baring a frefent intcrejl of fix C
per centum per annum. si
i ft, That pursuant to an A& of Congress passed on the a
stßth day of April, 1796, intitlcdan aft in addition to an
aft, intituled " An ad making further provision for the
support of public cradit, and for the redemption of the <3
public debt," the said debt or flock will be reimbursed and t
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends t
to be made 011 the last days of March, June and Septem
" ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou-
" sand eight hundred & eighteen inclusive, at the rate of d
" one and one half per centum upon.the original capital, r
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of £
December for the present year, and from the year one c
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year .
" one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at }'
" the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori- 11
" ginal capital; and by a dividend ta be made on the last g
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
" quate, according to the contrail, for the final redemp- ~
" tion of the said flock,"
ad. All diftin&ion between payments on account of 11
IntereH and Principal being thus abolished by the establish- t
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abovs de- r
scribed, it has become necessary to vary accordingly • the c
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public -
creditors will therefore observe that the following form 1
is eflablifhed for all powers of attorney Which may be v
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz. il
KNOW ALL MEN BY "THESE 'PRESENTS, thai t
I of in t
do maicf conflitute and appoint
of my true and lawful At
torney, for me, and in my name, to receive the dividends "which are, *•
or Jbatl be payable according to taw, on the (here? describing the C
stock) Jlanding in my name in the bods of (here describing the
books of the Treasury err the Commissioner of Loans,
where the flock 1 % credited) from (here insert the com- (
mcijcement and expiration <os-time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) rvitb pewer also an attorney or attor- r
niei under him, for that purpose to make and fubjlitute, and ti do all t
lawful a Sis reqt'ifttefor effecting thepremifes, hereby ratifying and j
confirming all that my faid\ Attorney or hisfubjlitute ,Jh all lawful-
ly doj by virtue hereof .
In IVitnefs hereof / have hereunto set my Hand and Seal the
•" day of in the year \
Sealed and Delivered <
in pre fence •
BE IT KNOWN, that on the day of
efore tne personally came
within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney Übe *
his aft and deed. <
In tejiimony whereof I have hereunto set my Hand and affix- \
id Seal the day and year last aforefatd. j
Given under ray Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to dire&iont
from the Secretary of the Treasury. 5
SAMUEL MEREDITH, 1
Ireafurer tf the United States. \
Julyiy* w&st*lj.
WANTED, '
A STORE and Cellar or Comptiag house and CeQ»r. ,
for the Wholesale and Dry Good bufmcfi, £Equixe
at No. 129 Arch-street.
For Sdle ot the above place?
joo Boxes Window Olafs, 8 by 10, 7 by 9, &e. '
50a Cream Cheeses in the best order, imported from <
Holland, and entitled to drawback. Enquire of
Peter Borger,
LONDON, June 29. •
The- Prinije of Wirtemberg, who is the Em ,
peror's brother-in-law, has been displaced from his ,
command io the imperial army of the Rhinr y 1 c 1
Arch Duke Charles. , It appears that when the ,
French attacked his army the 14th inft. near Al- ,
tenkirchen, the Prince was enjoying liirofelf at a t
peasant's wedding in *he neighbourhood, ihe ,
Arch Duke offered the command of the Prince s t
corps to general Wartenflebni, who beipg indis
posed, it has been given to general Werneck. a
General Bcaulieu having been seized with a fe- <
vere fitof illncfs, general Melas has received (lie r
command of the impeiial . army in Italy,'which, t
however, it is supposed. will be given to one of the [
Emperor's brothers, aflifted by general Maek. " t
{The following article has not before appeared in any v
of this-City Papers.] j
GUILDHAXL, LONDON, May 21.
Before Lord Kenyan and a Special fury. J
" The KING V. JOHN REFVES, Esq. '
This was a prosecution by information, filed by
the attorney-general under the command of his z
majesty, who direfled it in compliance with the r
address of the house of commons, against Johfi *
Reeves, Esquire, for ptiblifhing a book, entitled j
I" Thoughts on the Engli(h*Gqvernment," address- v
ed to tha good.sense of the people of England, &c. v
which was alledged to contain libels on the two c
branches of the legislature, the lprds and commons, t
and among others the following : "in fine, the c
constitution of England is a monarchy ; the mo- £
narch is the ancient stock from which has sprung r
those goodly branches of the legislature, the lords '
and commons, that at the fame time give ornamant 1
to the tree, and afford fhtfltcr to those who fcek t
protection imder it. But these are flill only, t
branches, and derive their origin and sutriment '
from their common parent j they may be loppfcd f
off and the tree is a tree still, fliorn indeed of its t
honours, but not 1 thcnucaft_'fire.'' iX> -«
There was no difficulty about Mr. Jteeves being
the author, for that was admitted by Mr. Plomer, I
hisCounfel. The only qujft ion was, whether the (
author really intended to calumniate, traduce and 1
vilify the two houses of parliament, and 'to alienate 1
the esteem of the public for their funflions, by en
deavouring to cause it to be believed that the legal
power and kingly office could be exercised without* '
the two houses, and to dellioy the power of parlia
ment, by causing it. to be believed that the-royal
power could be carried on in all its functions as
well as it is, although lords and commons were a
bolilhed ?
It was contended on the part of the prosecution
that this publication had this tendency.
Oh the part of the defendant it was contended it 1
had not, and that thefc expressions on which the
charge was founded were merely metaphorical, and
had no reference whatever to the idea of bringing
the two branches of the legislature, the lords and
commons, into contempt. This question being 1
agitated at great length at the bar,
Lord Kenyon proceeded to deliver his charge to
the jury, in the course of which he observed, among 1
other' thing 6, that a great deal tiad been said about <
this fubjeft, so much indeed, that very little re- '
mained for Uim to address to them. Early in the
cause it was delivered from all necessity of proof; .
for the hrft step which the counsel for the defend- I
ant took, was that ef admitting the publication of 1
the took in qnefti&n by Mr. Reeves. • The fubfe- 1
quent testimony, thefefore, he confeffed, appeared,
to him to be unnecessary. To a fuperficial observer ]
the contest of this day might appear very unequal. <
The present prosecution was instituted at the 1
command of his majesty in compliance with the ad- 1
drels of the house of cbmmons. The king had di- j
rested this prosecution against a private individual.
It was a beautiful feature in the constitution of this j
country, an instance of which was now exhibited I
in the persons of the jury, that a prosecution com- '
ing with such authority, (which under a bad I
government might overwhelm an individual) was I
to be submitted to them. In this country there ,1
could be no oppressive measures carried into effect, ;
if any such ever be attempted, for the jury ftept ]
in between the oppressors and the oppressed, and '
the accused was tried by men taken out of the fame 1
rank with himfelf to decide on his guilt or inno- '
cenee, and who, in considering all c&ies, had a lean- I
ing on the fide of mercy. This was a principle 1
which was adhered to in all cases, more especially 1
in those of a criminal nature, and that was one of 1
the principal • advantages of the administration of ;
the criminal justice of thitcountry. ,
The attorney general, as had become him, enter
ed into a display of great learning on the Britilh 1
constitution. He went to the beltfourcesof infor
mation upon that fubjeft, and made extra&s that
did him honour in the recital, for they were chiefly
from authors who had written in the molt liberal
manner on our constitution. But he did not think
1 that he was giving much information to any of
those to whom he was addressing himfelf, for we
all kijew, at lealt every man who had received a
, liberal education knew, it was a knowledge which
we all carried about us, that the legislation of this
countsy consists of king, lords, and commons ; that
the executive power rests with the king alose, but
liable to be superintended, and corrc£led too by
the two houses of parliament, becaufc the king or
dered nothing to be done but by the advice of his
ministers t and if they mifcondudted themselves
they were responsible to the two houses of parlia
| ment in this country. The ministers therefore, if
they mifcondufled themselves in the advice which
they gave to the sovereign, they were anfwerable'to,
and liable to be puniftied by parliament.
The power of free difcuffien was certainly the
right ef all the fabje&s of this country ; and in his
opinion we owed more to the free exercise of that
* right, than that of any other of the .rights of the
citizens of this country. He believed it would not
be faying too much, to fay we owed to the exercise
of the right of free discussion, the reformation, and,
1 afterwa.ds, the revolution of this country. It was
to this *a« owing the success which attended the
labours of Lulher and others who opened the eyes
of the people, and led them to fliakc off aad re
- nounce the foperffitioti of tint Church of Rome, a
and released so considerable apart ot mankind from 1
its bondage. Free difcaffion had the fame good J
effc£i in producing the revolution which followed
s that reformation. If therefore there fliou'd be f<?me
= little excrescences, fomc few blemiihes found to at-
■ tend a free difcufilon, it would be better to Wipe .
• them away tenderly and gently, than to otnnguifh f
J them at once by checking a free discussion ; c
i therefore he thought that free liifcuffion ought not I
s to be pvefled upon too hardly.
sentiments were pretty well understood,
and (tad been Hated and allowed by the Attorney- v
■ General, not only in this cafe, but also on a for- v
' mer very celebrated one. He aUudcd to the cafe i.
> of the King and Stockdale, which was tried before f
: him in Well mincer-Hall. In that 6rofaution, al- 1_
though it came from the fame li'jfii authority as i^ie
present, the individual who was the obje£l of it t
was not weighed down by the authority of the. t
prosecution.' He was defended with -reat Zealand si
eloquesce, and was pronouneed not guilty. *he a
jury did not think that they were bound to pro- o
nounce the publication a libel, but h flurried to them
, selves the right of judging for'themfelvts. Tliey a
3 asserted that light, and said that the defendant was i
• not guilty. On that trial it was admitted that the t<
J whole of the book ought to be examined by the
| jury. They were advised to do what he should ad
vise the present jury to do—to take the book alonjj
with them out of Court, and consider the whole
> of it candidly, fairly and impartially, and out of g
the whole of it, extract what their judgment "
' rfught to be, as well on the passages out of which a
. delinquency was attempted to be as the p
r reft. They were bound to find the defendant guil- f<
3 ty, fi r absolve him, having regard to the particu- a
t lar palTages taken out and felefted on the part of o
c the piofecution ; but although they mull consider ti
f . these passages so abllrafteJ, yet they might, and p
t they ought, to go into the in older to b
1 give to the whole the qualification or description of 1
s the book, as well as that of the paffags obje&ed, P
, n A nn waa-ivrrptiKKi to the author. h
r With these ofcf*rvations, he should beg leave to v
• state-to the jury, that which indeed the Attorney- f
e General had candidly Sated, -that in order to find- h
i the defendant guilty, they mud be fawisfied of the u
c evil intention of the defendant. The quo animo t
was the qfiellion to be tried. The.charge was, that u
,1 the defendant, intending to raise and dif '
t< contents among lifs rpajtftv's fubjeAs, and to alie- )
nate their affeflions, and to deflroy the eonili'.ution u
il and the government of this realm, by dellroying f
s the power of the two Houses of Parliament, and r
. to cause it be believed, that the regal power might c
as welt" be carried on in all its functions, although I
n Lords and Commons in Parliament should be abo- v
, liftied, as if they aflembled, did pablllh the book in '
t question. Or in other words, that the defendant t
e endeavored to impress upon the minds of the pub- 1
il lie, the idea that the legal power may, confident- 1
ly with the freedom of this realm, be carried on r
-j by the king, although the two House? of Parlia- i
j ment should never alfemble. That was the 'sub- a
fiance of the information. That wa6 the question, £
0 (which depended on the qui) animo J which the ju- c
ry had to try. They were to find whether their f
t confidences were Satisfied that this was. the motive c
- which influenced the defendant in puhlifhing this a
e book. This the attorney*general and the defend- c
; ant's counsel admitted to be the charge. His lord- i
. ship then said he had never read one word of this
f book. He confeffed it had been in 'his power to
. read it, but he abllained, because he thought he I
, should come to that court on the trial fitter for the
1 purpose with his mind a blank in any other
. condition. [Here the noble and learned judge then c
e read the principal paragraph on which the charge f
. was founded, and which we have copied in the be- »
. ginning of this our (hort account of the trial.] t
That was a paragraph of which the jury were to f
s judge, and ingoing so, they should judge of the mo- f
i tives with which the defendant publilhed it. That i
- was not to be his decision, for with the decision he \
J had nothing to do, but it was tu be the desyfion of i
s the jury ; but he would fay tbij, that if it were to \
e be his decision, if the verdict was to be his verdict, r
, and not that of the jury, he would examine the t
t pamphlet word by word, and take them together t
J with him out of that court. He should afterwards l
e decide with every fair leaning to mercy. With e- a
- very fair leaning* he said to mcrqy, npt to do away \
the criminal law, for it was eftential to the iuterefts i
e of this country to enforce the criminal as well,as the 1
y civil part of the law. But it was to be remembered
if that alllaw, and efpecial'.y the crimirfal law,was to be'
f administered in mercy 5 for the king himfelf, by his
coronotion oath, was bound to adminifler the law
in mercy. The cafe was now for the jury to de- •
h cide, and with them he would leave it.
The Jury retired and remained out of court an '
t hour. When they returned, the foreman said,
X "My lord, the jury are of opinion that the pam
il " phlet which has been proved to have been writ
k " ten by John Reeves, esq. is a very improper pub-1 '
if " lication. But being of opinion that his motives 1
e " were not such as laid in the information, find him" 1
a " nolzuilty.''
h
is RATISBON, June 20. ,
it The Emprets of Russia has caused her Ambaf
it fador to uiake an oral deelaration to the diet of the '
y German Empire tp the following import.
r- " Her the Empress of all the Ruffias,
is in contcquenee of the lively interest she was always
:s used to take in the prosperity of the German em
i- pire and of ail its ftates'in general, has with great
if attention observed the courfeof the war in which it 1
h is at present involved. Her majesty «ould as little '
J, refufe her approbation to the solicitude and zeal
which she remarked in several of the states, who,
ie partly, even at the price of very extraordinary fa
is crifices, joined clofcly with the chief of the Empire
at in defence of the common cause ; as, on the other
ie hand (he had been forced to remark with regret, <
it that all have not a&ed wirh the fame accord, and
fc observed the duties of states of the Empire, v The
d, closest friendfhip and the new treaties entered into
as by her Imperial Majesty of Russia' with his Majefly
ie die Roman Emperor commanded hsr to make it a
es particular object of heT foliciuide for procuring an
t/ .lOßorafcle peace, t« preffingly the meraberi
' '■*
and ftetes ofMie Empire to fulfil faithfully tliri?
sacred duties towards his Imperial Majesty wdtho
Empire.
FRANCE, June 3.
Louvet is now daily printing letters from the
South, all tending to demonstrate, that th< late
plot was conceited with the reyalifts, and aft-J ; n
co-operation with Conde's aiiry. Upon this Tub-
tcmpefate reflections 314 written
by the Editor of L'Eclair.
We must cxpedt these fables from the South, but
we should receive them with diltruft, come thro'
what channel they may- For their imaginantion
is fo~ardent that they fee nothing under its true
point of view : there every thing is exaggerated—. '
sentiments become passions. We cannot, there.
fore, too seriously intreat good citizens in thofe parts
to distrust the propriety of their jufteft resentments,
to be Hipon their guard against every plan of ven?
geance, to repel every thing tending to re-a&ion,
and to look to the government alone for the redrefi
of every grievance.
If we may believe the letters from FranV.fort the
army of Conde has reeeived orders to march for
Italy, to cover the imperial dominions in that quar.
tcr.
> From the Rutland Herald.
About 6or 8 year? pad, in - the month of Au.
gust, Governor Marsh's barn, in Hartford, Vermont
was consumed by fire, with a large quantity of hay
and grain. Various were the conje&urea with rcf«
pest to the cause of its taking fire. Many suppo
sed it done by some evil minded perfou some were
apprehenlive it was occasioned by the fermentation
ot the hay, which the governor hath pra&ifed put
ting into his barn, the day it was mown, and bat
partly k'ried. Others were of opinion that vegeta
ble fermented "heat could not become so intense.—
The Governor built another large barn, and has
pradtiied putting up his hay as ufoal ; it would
heat and smoke for some time, until the n.oitture
was evaporated, and then those appearances would
subside. The present year, the governor mowed
his hay early, when full in the sap ; and put up as
usual, about 40 tons in a large mow : it continued
to ferment longer thart usual, and the smoke was
unusually great, On the 22d Augult inft. two of
-the neighbours were pafiing tlie barn, and difcorer
jng~the smoke increased beyond what, had been
usual, went into the barn and ascended the mow ; the
smoke prefled violently from near the centre of the'
mow, where it had been hardefttrod when mowing ;
observing with attention, they discovered now and
then a faint slash of blaze rife and extinguish intha k
vapour. They immediately alarmed the neigh
bourhood, who collected a quantity of water ; they"
took the handle of a fork and ran it down .where
the centre of heat appeared ; it went down its
length after paffingthe hay on the top, without,
meeting reftflajice, and on pulling it out, the flame
followed * it. They immediately ftifled the Same,
and went to unmowing the hay, and by their vi
gilant exertions, and the application of'upwards of
one hundred buckets ofwaier, and unmowing the
hay, the bam and hay were saved, except near the
centre <>f the mow ; diameter", of
about fix or eight feet, uid lather larger perpendi
cular, wasreduced to perfect coal. ,lt is supposed
it had been burning a number of days.
E. B.
Mode of Breaking STEERS to the draft ma few
Days.
LET the farmer carefully yoke his fleets in y
close yard or (table, and not move them till they get
fufficiently accustomed to the yoke, fu that they
will eat their food when yoked ; which will be in
the courfeof a day. Let them again be yoked the
second day, and a pair of gentle horses or oxen be
faftened before them, in which ftatioulet them stand
until they become familiar with said horses or oxen,
which will generally bp effected in one day, except
ing the steers fhouid be uucommonly wild, which
will occasion a second day's pra&ice, after the fame
manner ; and the next day the steers be yoked, '
the horses or oxen put before them as usual, and let
them be faftened to a waggon or any other caniage,
theyfearing the cariiage behind them, and being
accustomed to the old oxen before, will proceed for
ward without being whipped or hriil.fed.. TW the
above piocefs.the farmer will never fail of success in
having good working oxen.
A FARMER.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
[Price one quarter of a
> Embelliflied with a curious Frontispiece,
The Adventures of a Porcupine;
Or the VILLAIN UNMASKED,
BEING" the Memoirs of a notorious Rogue lately in
.' the British' army, and ci-devant member ol an eitenuve
, light-finolßed association in England, Containing*
. narrative of the mofl extraordinary and unexampled c
pravity of condm& perhaps ever exhibited to the wor ,
in a Letter to a young gentleman in Sew-York.
" These things are strange, but not more strange th»n
trus." , 1,
To which is added,
A Postscript to Peter Porcupine:
Being remarks on a Pamphlet, lately, publilhed by im,
, entitled, his " Life and Adventures,
i BY DANIEL DETECTOR.
" I'll tell the bold fae'd villain that he lies.
Sold by A. & J. O. Henderson, cornerof Relief and
Carter!* Alley, back of No. 77, Dock-street, an )
, different in this city. wf&m
• For Sale,
: «\ A new Printing Prefrj
r PRICB-NINETY-FIVE J3QLLARS, CASH.— Enquire,
, of the Primer. co d 3 t.
i ?e P l - 3- __ I-
To be disposed of,
' time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who --A
X has between four and-five years to lervo- .
' can be recommended for her sobriety and hone f •
1 oarticulars enquire at No. 132, Chefnut-ftrtti.
Auguit 3, • ■»«»• .Philadelphia,
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, i 7 96. ]
~ 1
Diid, in this city, 011 Sunday lift, Mr. Prr*» Gaze- 1
>iAV*, merchant, of George-Town, Potomac. <
The following reports goTiuto circulation after the '
arrival" of the mail this forenoon, viz. That the Thetis
Capt. Cochran, is arrived at S\ndy Hook—that a sri- (
gate of 32 guns* one of Capt. Barney's squadron, was t
taken by Admiral Marray's squadron and lent off for ;
Halifax, and that the fleet was in pursuit of the others.
The papers by this day's mail do not contain any firai- !
lar account. ,
Since writing the above, we learn that there aj-e
letters in town from New-York which give the fame 1
information. 1
A veflel arrived here last evening in three days from 1
Richmond—the captjin of which fays the Thesis tav
in Hampton Road last Friday.
The accounts by the arrival at New-York in 42 r
days from Cadizs seem to contradia the news of Ri- t
chery's having faded for St. Domingo in company r
with Don Solana, the Spamfh admiral, as publilhed in
,the Courrier Francois—fee yesterday's Gazette.
A Baltimore paper fays—
Capt. Marlball who went this port in the (hip
Unicorn, was executed at Cape-Francois the 16th of
August.
Seven sailors and the mate of the brig Philadelphia, L
who had murdered their captain at sea, and who we re'
afterwards captured by Commodore Barney, were ex
ecuted with Marthall.
Extra# of a letter from Port-au-Prince dated August 13.
" The Inhabitants hexe appear more lively and affairs 1
wear a more favorable afped fincc these few days past.in
confequeaceof a < ompleat viftorybyDe Brugesand O'Gor- '
man over Jean ToufTant and hisarmy.about J2cx> ftront;. '
The particulars ari, that Touflant attacked the camp at 7
Mirebalais —Ds Bruges and O'Gorman then command- I
ing there, were apprized of his intentions and were prepa- «
red - The attack was begun by Touflant—the English
troops made a falfe retreat, drew Touffant's army into a
plain, near which three columns of the Eritifh troops were 1
laying.in wait, who all at oftce fell. on the brigands and ; ~
only about 100 of them escaped. The Englilh forces have i k
now advanced at least 40 miles farther into the interior ti
partof the country—taken feveralcamps and large uuau- o
tities of arms and ammunition. We soon (hall f ce l the
good effects of this 'defeat. —
ExtraHofa letter from Jeremie, plated Augufl jj. "
"The troops of Cayes marched against Irois,
the principal poll which defends Jeremie on the tc
Weft fide. The attack was vigorous, but the de- tc
fence was Ail! mote so. The besieged after haying 5'
made several fuccefsful Tallies, routed at last the be- C
siegers and pursued them to Foh Tibtiron. 31
" At the fame time tht; polls of Plymouth being
iiibrmed by. their spies, that the camp of Pcrin was tr
left unprotected, the garrifoo having joined the
troops from Cayes, they sent detachments to the P'
Southern difhift, who took that port, made 12 2 -
vihile people ptifoners, carried off the arms and am- ar
munition, broke the carriages of the cannon, and as- P|
terwaids retired." di
A captain arrived at New-York, states the iofs
of the French in the above affair to be 500 men. 9 !
— ce
ANTIQUITIES.
Letters from Florence mention a very £reat disco
very m a place where it was leait expeifted. Near the. T
town of Piperno, formerly called Pivernum, fomc
artists made a search, and fpurtd some inferiptions, and
foine. fine pieces of sculpture.
The firft is a statue of a man fitting, twice as large
as life. It is the statue of Tiberius Ccefar, sculptured !n
as It is of gr'at value, inafrauch as it is n
aunique, and becauie the statues which we have of Ti- at
terius are imperfect. It is of that species of very fine
marble which is called Copolla Statriaire.- * m
The remains of a statue of Claudius, the head and Sf
bread in perfecl preservation :. a naked statue of one ln
of the Caefirs, and a worp»n, without heads. S l
■Several fine heads, particularly one of Aurelius ; o or' r
1 head of Jupiter; of the younger Faustina; of a Wl
worn ar., fnppofed to be O&avia, the wife of Nero— t0
were al§) discovered. ' P r
All these statues, and several inferiptions, prove, 'f 1
that the place where they were found was the Eorurn tlc
ef the ancient Pivernum, where the statues of the
Ca:lars had been eretfted. New discoveries are ex
pend to be.made in the lame place.
|"London paper.]
Tranflatidfor the Gazette of the United States.
— Ti
ExtraA of a letter from Paris, June 9.
Two dftys ago the Guild-matter of Bade Mr. Ochs,
"irfivetThere, in order to re-eftablilh the good under- -
Handing between the Diredory and the Cantons. The 'L
Clergyman Baflal, to whose denunciations much is ow
ing, is recalled. To day Mr. Ochs, a man of well *
kaown republican principles, will have an audience .i
with the directory. <(
Mr. De Rehhufen, formerly Secretary of legation aj ,
at the Hague,, who ibme time lince lived privately at rcr
Paris, but now is appointed Charge d'Affaires for Swe- j„
den, will be presented on the ißth inftaut to the direc- fifl
tory in that quality. The departure of Baron de 0 f
Stael is much regretted by our public men. liti
Ihe day before yesterday the criminal tribunal of he]
city, condemned to death Afpafia Migelli, aged 22 DCI
yeais, daughter of a runner to one of the late French u j
Princes. She is the fame person who was concerned n0
last year, May 23d, in the aflaffination of the Deputy ir
lenand, in the midst of the hall of the Convection, rlt
and who alio intended to murder Boiify the ot j
President. They attempted by all possible raeaus to 0 |;
five her, by advising her to plead lunacy Boiffy ; d'Ang- j] e(
las himfelf, whose attendance was requested, endea- v ; e
voured to excuse her v but she maintained obftinatelv, „ at
'he was no lunatic, and really intended to murder Boif- r( _,
*7* Anglas. 1 (he displayed, afiimilated
to exalted heroism.
At Chuan de l'lfle, a corps of Chouans of 1200
men was defeated, after an obilinate engagement with ; ;J .
the,lols of :oo men. Among the killed was found the „; v
Emigrant Begafiere. Many elegant arms were taken. r, el
On the 24th of May, the cidevant count ofßricque- f e \f
vdle Pont-Royer, whem theChoujns in vain attempt- n j n
ed to save, was /hot. He was come over from Eng- co „
hud, to head the Royalists in Normandy. t y, c
Droi-et's wife, has' obtained permission to dine with ,
her hulband. . (
Ihe creditors of Count d'Artois, now are paid out tfn
of the goods he left. t0 .
Our papers mention, by authority ef Strafburg let- t }, e
tets, that Cardinal Rohan died at Ettenheim. tru ,
— are
HAGUE, Tune T4. * nor
Many Batayians retum<stl from France find them- pre
f'lves disappointed, a= they cannot be provided for -as On
they desire ; befifles that their property is detained in and
France, yet by interceflion of oyr National Convention *!w
- French Minister, M;-. Keel V,-
®ur National Convention in their last' f.fion r I
: szs'rv"""" *•?
fP " flxmj a term of 6 weeks to all-p, c
h h t sb " Ugrant n' ng whicf >period ihey are to cx-
SE . hib.t their requests, corrobated by certificates of a fm-
aft r- i?8 /' - d^ g °od
the will pass unnoticed! tHlt such F—
z sfear " b "" - « «•«->- —
r». All I the Dutch land fortes have filed off to Gueldres
~ S i,h
Ve - In the roac ' they are equipping a French
™ C f VetteS ' be commanded
by Rear Admiral Van Stabel, and to »a against the
>m Eng'iA m the North Sea. b
N. 'T, . COLOGNE, June ix.
a* w " te from Brufiels, that General Tilli, com-
A 2 mander« arabant detains numbers of recruit, in order
nv r:;n P, "V hTrt ordcrs of Buur.
n> nonville, w ho in HoUimU
BY THIS DAY's MAIL.
NEW-YORK, September 6.
is. Current Cath Price, at King j]on (Jam.) ly ret.il,
2 >6-22,1796.
Spanish Milled Dollar, 6s. Bd.
Rum, Bs—Black Ginger, 70s —White ditto,
' 205 Muscovado sugar, 50s to 80s—Jamaica
ir _ coupn, is. iod. 1-2 to 2s. id—Foreign ditto, j,.
s u to 28. 3d. —Coffee, 85s. to 120s—Pimento,
at yd. to 8 t -2d— Jamaica corn, 10s American do.
d- I OS.—Jamaica mahogany, 251. to 40I—Chip log,
»■ wood, iol. 5 s—Fustic 51. ios—Firft flout, fu-
1 1 os. to 1 153 —Common ditto, 903.^0
re '°O s —Corn meal, 65s Ship-bread, 509.'t0 ccs.
id | "ice, 50s. to 525. 6J.—Butter, 2s. 3d.—Tal
low cardies, is. id—White soap, cwt. 1.30s— Caf
-7 'J O3 -—Brown soap, 130s Mess beef,
ic 9 1 —Cargo ditto, 120s—Mefs pork, 31. 10s.
—Cargo ditto, 140s. Scotch Herrings, 70s A
hyrican ditto, 50s. to 55s. —American 'shads, 655.
Sj Mackarel, 703—Salt fifli, 45s. —Hides, 1 is. 2d.
[e to I 2s. 6d.—London particular Madeira wine, 80!.
!- to 95 I—Ditto1—Ditto markA do. 6sl New-York ditto,
g 501. to JSI. —common boards and plank", 161.
:- Cedar ditto, 371,101. —Pitchpine boards, plank,
and scantling, 20! Yellow pine ditto, 181.
g Ilardwood, 40I —Oak plank, per foot, 5d. —Bof-
is ton jingles, 45s —Cedar ditto, 80s. to 90s—
e White American cedar, ditto, 755. to 80s. —Cy
press ditto, 80s. to 90s.—Wood hoops, per M.
2 2jl—lron ditto, per C. 60s—Wlnte oak /ft aye? I
, and heading, 20I—Red oak do. 201 Lamp oil,
r. per barrel, 10! Pitch per ditto, 60s Tar per
ditto, jjs.—Turpentine per ditto, 555.
- s Good Bills of Exchange on Great Britain, at
>. 9° days fight, bear a premium of 2 1-2 to c per :
cent.
EASTON, August 30.
e To tTie Citizens of the Federal"Diflrifl compoftd r,f
e the Counties of Dorchcfter, Somerset and Woreef
=l ter - ,
Gc yi tJc ytt c
e _ AS it will beextremely inconvenient forme to serve '
d in Congress longer than the third of next MarSh, to
: s notify my intention of declining the honour of a po'l
.. at the ensuing federal eleftisi; is a mai;k of duty and ,
e refpea which it becomes me to make. Accept gentle
men my warmest and most refpea fu I sentiments of
d gratitude for your repeated kindrieffes and for the
e high confidence with which you thought fit to diftin
gufh me : and be assured that though you may hive
. Oiten seen me fall into errors of judgment, my motives
a were always correct and my wilhes zealoufty directed
_ to the good of our country—With sincere and ardent
prayers for thc»profpcrity of the United States, and of
._ this diflrift in parffcular, I am, gentlemen, most affec
„ tionately and refpedfully, your faithful
e friend and servant,
- ■ W. V. MURRAY.
Cambridge, 20th August, 1796. ,
FREDERICKSBURG, AUGUST 31.
THE NGRTIIEkN. AND SOUTHERN S?ATES 1
COMPARED.
' A well informed correspondent observes, that "it 1
is nts Isnger matter of surprise and alarm, at the giaxt
z Jlep! 'with which our wealthy North is advancing to
" the pinnacle of en-vied POPULATION, and our evapo- ;
rating south is drooping under her fupetitt policy."
c " When to the northward of Virginia," he observes, '
" a mechanic, a merchant or an artist comes to refidc '
1 amongst them, they eagerly seize the opportunity of I
c rendering him every assistance, use every means to in- 1
' duce his attachment to the placeJie has ehofen to re- J
fide in, and exult in having contributed to the increase j
e of the ftate—finally, they discover all those good qua- !
lities, as a reward for A'hich, Providence seems to have
bellowed on them, this-vaft and insurmountable fu-
1 periority I"—Contrasting the scene, he continues—
' " but when a mechanic, a merchant, an srtift, or what 1
1 not, shall come to reside southward of the Pcfcimac (
' (Ol Virginia I my native, still lov'd, and everrene- f
' rated state! why do you force me to develope what t
! otherwise than forced, should have'been sealed in lalting J
' olivion—but it is necessary—it is requisite—you are
' sleeping, callous to impending dangers, rosfe then and
view yoir erftirs I —100,000 fouls will support the alle
< gation)—he is immediately envied—all combine to
' render him difguftful in the eyes of the community ; c
1 one exclaims "he will injure our right worthy neigh
bour —another—" tjieplace cannot afford
li'en a competency I"—a third—" d n him, FU do ,
1 him all the mifchief I can I I"—As a stranger they V
give him no chance of displaying his talents, btcaufe he ' l
feels himfelf oppressed among Free-Ma ! He fees him- n
felf loft in the bolotn of Liberty, and every man {hun
ning him as if he were a pestilence, for the crime of C
coming to sojourn among Jiem, to afiift in supporting d
the dignity and.independence of their state ! Can this
be denied ? No! bijt rt can be proven I What pity it
is then, but the lightning of jufl reproach could dart its
terror into the humid bosoms of such men, till fojeed
to acknowledge its impropriety and impolitic tendency,
they might at 'aft turn to consider in what confiftc the 11
true intertfts of these southern states, and what steps
are necessary to prevent tW rapid which the t
northern, and that state in particular, where (lands the
present emporium of America, are making over .them, p
One thjng is certain, that while the former persecutes
and tKe latter protects trade and manufactures, (he will
always command an alarming supremacy. ' -
ill " " - - :
3t ZAZETTS OF THE UNITED STATUS MARINE LIST.
Id — V
' PHILADELPHIA, September 7,
x- NEWBURY-PORT, September 1.
rr- Fndiy lafl arrived here brig Elizabeth Coats, Capt.
b- Michiei Titcomb, 3$ days from Sul-riaim- Sailed ir.
ns company with 27 American vefiels, and 3 DaniS).
Aug. I, lat. 17, 2i, hoarded by the Vengeance of 74
ril guns, a,ral Lapwing of £i, detained one hour, politely
re treated and difmiflert Aug. at 6, A. M. discovered a
ar number of faiTs to the Northward and Haft
ward, which provedHo be a Britiih homeward bound
es windward fleet, (50 fail insight) und«r convoy of the
ey Hebe of 36 guns, and others. At half palV nine was
I poke, after two hours chafe, by the Tatd Hebe, who or
;h dered us not to make fail, when (he immediately pte
cd (Seeded after a ship then in fight, which appeared to be
he * French frigate of 44 on which the Frenchman
politely ihortened fail, when the commander of the
Hebe thought prudent to return to the fleet.
h- BOSTON, September 1.
ei By Capt. Little, from Peterfburgh, we learn,
ir- that a sow days before he failed, the galleys, bc
--landing to the Empress, in ntirtiber about 140,
which k*ulcd up and houfeii, at a small di
stance fiom Peterfßiirgh, were a few'days befdie
he (ailed deftioyed by lightning, together with a
great number of (lores, !&c. ,
Capt. Young, from Malaga, informs, that the
r/, Spaniards have 17 fail of ihe line a( Carthager.a,
and 30 fail at Cadiz, all in good order.
Seventeen fail of Danish merchantmen, are said
to have been captured at Algiers the lft of May.
' September 2.
* . NAVAL ENGAGEMENT.
■)' OnTuefday lad arrived in Nantafket
3 ' the British frigate La Raifon, Capt. Beresford,
r. ra . tln ? 2 + anc * mounting 32 guns, nines and fixes,
]. w '''> Iw i> 24 pound carronades. On the 24th ult.
0 in the evening, George's Banks bearing W. b. S.
so leagues, was chafed by a French frigate, '
j" which soon came up with, and engaged La Raifon.
[. Her force not preififely known ; but supposed, by
p the English officers, to have been a 44 gun (hip,
action continued that evening an hour and a
quarter, when the vessels separated in a fog. Next
_ morning the two (hips again met, and fought three
1 quarters of ;:n hour; a'fog again aiifing, the vef
iels again parted, and did not fall in with each other
;• afterwards. J.a Raifon had-two men killed and
seven wounded, three dangerously: (lie was much
damaged in her hull and rigging, having to herid
'I altr.olt a complete new suit of fails. She is,'howe
. ver, refitted, and will probably put to sea this
week. It is not known what vefTel (he was en
gaged wiih; hut it was-probably the frigate that
was seen off ihe Capes, of the Delaware, about 3
■ w?eks fincc ; and fait), by the pilots, to be u a
tine French; frigate. ' She is expe&ed sit this port.
\ Capt. Thorn,like, from Petersburg, Russia, in
forms us, that in a violent thunder and lightning
ttorin, which happened just before he failed, 100
gai.ies were caught on fire and consumed.
Tuesday, Alignft 30.
Arrived the brig Good Hope, Thorndike, St.
Peterftuirg, 76'dsys.' Left there, to fail soon, the
brig Little, 'for Boston.
July. 1 1 # lat. 60, Jong. 4, W. spoke brig Dia
na, Southwood, 36 days from Russia, for Bofion.
Same day. Schooner Argc, Butterfworth, Ha
e hfax, n>«t days. Sne brought the crew of the
O American flap Succef>, Ba'occck, taken by La
!1 Raifo.l, Briifth frigate, Ctpt. Beresford, and con
derpned there. They speak highly of Capt. B.
" Same day. Schooner Bctfey, Sawyer, .Gonaives,
'. 2 2 days.
_ Wednesday, Auguf^r.
e Arrived brig Sally, Young, Malaga, 63 days,
s August 1,1, lat 42, 28, long, 57, 30, spoke brig
d Polly, Clement, of Portland,from Noifolkto Lon
£ don, 12 days. ■
August 18, spoke a filhing schooner, who in
formed, the (hip Broughton, from Nantz for Bos
ton, had been taken by the Engli(h.
Same day. Brig Neutrality, Jenkins, St. Übes,
64 days. Off W. islands, spoke a French priva
teer of 20 guns, which had tak'h four prixes.
Sjme clay. Brig Mary, Choate, from' Bour
deaux, 64 days.- Was taken and sent to Halifax,
5 but cleared.
Same day. Brig Maria, Little, Russia. Spoke
t nothing.
t The following vtjfcls pajjed Elfineur, in June. 1
' Names Capts. of from to 1
* F. Lady, Ewers, Bolton, St. Übes, Baltic.
Aurora, Felt,. ,Salem, Salem, Copenha '
. Sarah, Hopkins, Bolton, London, Peterftj.
f Maria, Bentley, Provid. Copenha. Provid.
Eunice, Knight, Salem, Salem, Copenha ,
■ Minerva, Brown, Provid. Provid. ditto.
' Mars, Smith, Boston, Penzance, Russia.
Camilla, Difmore,do. Hamburg, do. * 1
Enterprize,Allen, Salem, Russia, Salem. 1
. Neptune, Hooker,Porefmo. Plymo. Russia.
William, Picket, N. y. port, Hamburg, do.
Gorh3m, Woodb. C. Ann, Russia, America, j
Neptune, Jacobs, Provid. Provid. Copenha
Henry, Greene, Salem, SaVm, Russia.
Reliance, Weblter,Bofton, Liverpool, do.
Newport, Robinson.do. London, do.
Union, Luckey,do. St. Mich. do.
The lift goes farther back ; but this is all we <
conceive can be intending.
Thorfday, September 1.
Arrived schooner Fair Lady, Howes, St. Übes,
60 days. Left there , Duggart, of Boston,
schooner », Stoddart, do. schooner , Ho- r
mer, of Dennis; schooner ~ of Marblehead.
Augull 3, lat. 43, 42, long. 50, spoke schooner
Gorham, Woodberry, from Pcterfburg, Russia," 45 r ,
days out, for Cape-Ann.
June 4, qff Cape-Ortugal, spoke schooner Au
gulta, Bennett, 24 days fmm Cape-Ann, for Bil
boa.
Sime day. Arrived (hip Genet, Freeman, Raf.
fia, 89 days.
July 29, lat. 4a, 39, long. 44, spoke the Lucy,
10 days frotn Portsmouth, for Fayal.
Augufl 12, lat. 45, 58, long. 47, spoke the
Pallas, 12 days from New-York for Belfaft.
Augult 27, lat. 41, 30, long, 63, spoke the
Jbfig John, 67 days from Lisbon for Boston.
° j Same tay. Arrived ship Thorn, Doll, BcHfiflr*
Fra tier, 6i days, Nothing new. ,
The fliip Polly, 16 days f-om Wifc«fTet, for
Liverpool, was /poke Augult l l.
June 25, near Cordoran, fpokr the fchonner
Snowden, from Boston, to Bmirdeaufc, all well.
•!.' L >' dia > Chipman, of Boston, is t.kets and
j ll - fert- "Co —— '
74 The Morning Star » Pfrkinf, for Kennebeck,-
ly was 10 iail from Grenada, Aii<ru!t 3.
i Brig Sally, Afhton, of Salem, was at Grenada
ft- J*jly 34. .
id Ihe Retrieve, Pierfon, of Newport, was at Ja
-15 quemel 26 days'(ince.
Seheoufr Lydia, Levin, was spoke, 3C days
e ~ from Mai for Llftv.n.
■>e Fame, ighatn, is at from
Llfoofli
,C r> n " ia ' D:iHin, for
Boston, was spoke July 2J,lat. 2 -.
The fc'iooner Atalan'a, of Portland, frfrtv^ ar .
tinique, for Charleston, was spoke 24.
e- NEW-VjQRK, September 6.
0, Cap>. Niell, of the brig Mapy Ann, arrived h?-e
11- yellerday in 42 Jays from Cadiz, 011 the 28 h of
.e July,
a Spoke the brig Fair American, from Faval>
bonnd to Liftjon, 4 days out, tat. 33, 40, long.
Ie 15, 2J.
a, Augpft 23d, Spoke a ship' from Martinique,
bound to Portfmoitfh, Eng. iat. ?o 1,2.
id Aitguft 26, Spoke the Friend ship of London
from Carolina bound to Londo.-, long. 16, ,0,
The brig Poll, Cara, of Edenton, N. C. failed
in company with capt. Niell for New-York.
s The Ship Atlas, capt. Seaman, of and from New
j York arrived at Cadi* a few days before capt. Niell
failed. '
t ' Admiral Richery's fleet was still blockaded in Ca»
j' diz harbour.
» . '
s, Arrivals Tork—September 6.
v. Brig Sally, M iner s Bernuxli
y Mary Ann, Neil, O.liz
3. Schr. Comet, Butler, Jean Rebel
a Betsey, Neill, Wilmington, (N. C )
:t Brig Gtati tide, David I)ervan, matter,- belong
e ing to Philadelphia, arrived at Lucea, July 30, in
f- dillrefs, having 101 l three hand 9, and short of water,
■r She was from Kingilon, bound to St. Jagodela
d Vega.
h * '
d'" ' '
STOCKS.
s —
1. Si* per Cent. - - .... . j
• Three per Cent. ------ - Ic/7
4| per Cent. - - none for sals. - . 14/ httprice
Si per Cent. ... !(,,(,
a Deferred Six per Cent. . . - i-j/%t07
. BANK United States, .... 20 pr. cent.
. ' Pimnfylvania, - - - - jy
_ i- — North Amciicg, ... ,46
Insurance Comp. North-America, 40 per ccnt. adv.,
" Pennsylvania, 5 percent.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, per £.100 fieri, par. •
e ; at 60 days, par to 1621-1
— at 90 days, 161 a i6z I-»
Amsterdam, 60 days, "per guilder, 41
' 90" days, • 40
JUST published!
3 Ar.d for Sale by IVIL LI AM COS BE 7*77 opbofiie
' Christ Church, \
WATSON'S
Apology for the Bible ;
Being a complete Refutation of that blaf
g pbemous work falfely called the
u Age of Reason."
This most excellent performance is now in the o-*bvo
1- size, on fine paper, and at so low a price as
f. of a t'cllnr, which, it is hoped, will be a mean of giving
it an extensive currency among readers of every class.
September. 7. I
1- . THIS DAT IS PUuLtSllb. 1), '
By H. & P. RICE, No. 16, Second-ft eet, and No.
50, Ma "k%t fti-eet.
, A VISIT TO THE
e Philadelphia Prison -
BEING an accurate aivd parti ular Deftriptir n of the
wife and humane Adminiflration adopted in every part
of thnt building; containing also an account . f the gra
dual reformation and present improved state o.' the Per.al
I.aws of Pennsylvania ; with Obfej-vations on the injut
tice and impolicy of capital punifhm nts.
with an Appendix,
Containing tallies of crimes, and quarterly ftafemehts
of the expenditures of the Prison, with the amount of
3 the labour of the conviel >.
By a Gentleman of South-Carolina.
" Lay the axe to the root and teach governments hu
manity. It is their sanguinary puniflimcnts which cor
rupt mankind." ' [Rights of Man.]
Sept. 7. • " drf
LANDIN G, .
• From on board the Rrig REBECCA, Dominic Davine,
1 Master, at Pliilip Care's Wharf, and for S*k by the
Subfcrilierj
London Particular Madeira WINE, .
In Pipes, Hoglheads .♦d Quarter Calks.
There are in the above parcel 10 Hhds, of CHOICE
; OLD WINE, fit for immediate ufe^
Robert Andrewj,
Sept. 6. eod No. 86, So. Wharves.
Difloiution of Partnerfliip.
THE Partnership between ROBERT ANDREWS and
DAVID MEREDITH, under the fittn of ANDREWS
and MEREDITH, being dissolved All persons who arc
indebted to, or who have claims againil the 'aid house, are
requested to apply for settlement to the fuMcriber. A
ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. S6, So. Wnaivei.
Sept. 6,1796. d ff
' For sale by the fublcribers,
IN PENN-STREET,
130 quarter Chests frefh Hyson Tea;
190 ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing fiuaU tea setts of 4V
pieces;
430 pieces Bandanoes. '
Willings Francis. , 1
January 3« 3tiw.Cm. '
jy, •
y i Samuel Riehardet, !
R E s'; : FOLLY informs ihe Gentlemen '
Tavdow ' th3t he has - his da y opened the CITY
™ , MER CHANTS COF FEE HOUSE in the i
eity of Philadel hia. i\
The" Subscription Room wffl he furnilhed with all the i
(!ai!y pap . rs p u hl,(hed in Philadelphia, N;w-Y«rtt. B~f- 1
t»-n, a -I'timorc, together with thole of the principal com- 1
fliercial citi«s of Europe—-They will be rwgularly filed *
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
ea ' Soupea, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhmeiits,
<rill at all times he procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors frorftLondon and other breweries.
The I arder will befupplied with the pru»«c and earliest ,
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or sip** he
iccoihmodated with Breakfafe. Dinners, Suppers, at
ftours most conv themfelv^-— a cold Collation is
regularly kspr AJt conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
at th© b«-.'
The Lodging Ro/wils will be completely farniftied, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanlinefsi and every other
requisite.
Samuel feiCHARDET will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at .
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfel' that nothing on his part fhallbe wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly io;iored.
Philadelphia, April rg,* eo
I'uv cf Washington.
SCI IEM E of the LOTTERY; No. 11,
FOR I ■F. IMPROVEMENT OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & )
dwell ing-hoiife, ) cash 10 000, are ) s°)o®o
I ditto ir,ooo & cafb 25,000 4o,oiX>
I d?tto 15,000 & cash if,ooo 30,000
X ditto 10.000 & ca'fli 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 &. cajh 5,' 00 io,« 00
I rlirto «r,OOO & raft. 5,000 10,000
I cash pr ; ze of 10,006
t do. each, are • io,r 00
to do. 1,000 - y 10,000
26 do. 500 • - 10,000
CO do. 1,00 • - 10,o< o
300 do. 50 10,000
400 do. 2> • 10,000
1,000 do. 20 • 26 000
15,000 do. lo • - 750,000
*6,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks:
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, • 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, *he prize of 40,000 dollars will be the l s.t, drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
©r prizes in ten days after drawing, will be received so
*any numlfer not less than 30 tickets.
Thi* Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere<sled in the City of Washington—
Two beautiful wefigns are already fel°<3ed for the entire
front* on two of the public squares ; from these prawings
it ispropofe. J to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
as so on as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the mfcnner in the fchemc for the Hotel Lottery.
An of five per cent, will be made to defray
the ueccfury expenses of printing, 5c c. and the fur pi us
will ne made a part of the fund intended for the National
Ufli •ty > to.be erected within the city of Washington.
\ rawing will comme; c° as soon as the tickets are
{c\ >off- - i " i jonev prizes will be payable in thirty, days
as 'it is' fin»{b -d ; and any pr zes for wjhieh fortunate
ite not produ ed within months after the
drawing i-cIMVd, are to be confidertd a* given towards
th- tuni lor th University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole bufinef* in a year from the sifting of -the draw
ing, and to tnke up the bond* given as security.
Th r : 1 fecuritgiven.for *he payment Ot the Prizes,
ire held y the President nd two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
jnount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment oi
the l#r Commiflioners alTiOed >n the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requefled to undertake this arduous talk
a fetond time on behalf of the public ; a fufticjent num
, ber of these having kindly aecepted,it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jc&smay cpnti:-iueto favor the design.
Cy accounts received from the different N parts of the
Continent as Well as from Europe, where the tickets
fcr.ve been Cent for sale, the public are assured that the
drawing will speedily commonee, and that the car*, and
caution unavoidably necefTary to insure a fafe disposal of
fchs has rendered the ift(>r* fufpinfion indispensable.
SAMUEL BLODGMT.
Tiekets-may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; o
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter pilman, Boston
of John Hepkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. eo
Lands of the United States
Trea ury Department, Augujl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby .Given,
TN p'.imr.moe 0 lit of Conyjrefs, paiTed on the xßth
day of May.'i 796, entitled " An aSt providing" for
thef.Je of th'- hinds of the United itates, in the Territo
ry north v.'eft of the river Ohio, and abovii the mouth of
Kentucky river," rhat the ftilions or lots of land descri
bed in die annexed fthejiale, lying in the seven ranges of
townfliips, which were surveyed in pu'rfuance of an ordi
nance of Cor.grd"s, passed on the. twentieth day of May,
in the year otie thousand f ven hundred and eightySve
wil! beexpofed for sale at Pulilit vendue, i:i the town ol
Pittlburgh in p on the twenty-fourth day of
October next, and thenccforwar , from to day until
the fir ft day of December ensuing, unless the said lots fhal
be /boiler fold, in the manner, and on the terms aud can
ditions herein after mentioro!, 10 wit : ,
I ft. The said feAion9,or lots lhall be fold under the di
rection ef the Governor or Secretary of the Wcftern Ter
ritory, and such perlon as the President of the United
Str.tes mayfpeciaUy appoint for that purpose.
* id. The said fe<S:ons or lots fball be fold to the highest
bidder,but no can be made for less than two dollars
per acre of the quantity of land contained in such lot or
fsAien.
3. The highest bidder a* before mentioned, mall depo
fic « the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pure afe
sjoney in the hands of such person astlie Pitfident of che
United States shall appoint to attend thefales for that ptif
f jfe, which will be forfeited, if a moiety of the sum bid,
including the said twentieth pvt. fiiall not be paid ivitnin
t)u2ty<days from the time of sale.
4th. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchase money
in the manner before mentioned, the pureliafer wi J be
entitled tci one year s credit for tnc remaining moiety 4
mi lhall receivd from the Governor «r Secretary of the
Wcftern Territory, ano the per fen who Ihail be appointed
\,v the President of the United States, to dire<3 the fates,a ,
Car'.ifieite describing the lot or i cHru parchaied. and Uc
tiai ing thefum paidonaccount, the balance remaining our,
ti.e time when such balance becomes payable, and' that
■■'at Th«ie land Uitrciu muntioocd ,wiu kc forfeited, if th.
— " .91
•
said balance is not then paul •, but if the fakt bale pee fhaii
be duly difcharge#!, by paying tine fame tothe 1 :\afuier >
the United States, the purchafcr or.his aißgnGe or
legal rcprefentative, be entitled to a patent lor
said lands, on his producing Secretary of Stat^Mr^e
• ceipt for such b ilanee uoon the ccr But
if any purchaser shall paynient or tlie whole ps the
*urci?afe.mottfty, at•■ihtrtim: when the payment of the
fir\ moiety is dire a ed to bnvui<*. he will He entitled to a
1 deduction of ten pr centum on th- part tor which a cre
dit authorized to be given ; and his patent shall be im
f mediately issued.
Given under my hand at day and
year above mentioned.
» OUJrtifo. WOLCOTT,
I tivy ©f the Treasury
t Scf)?duh of. fetionf of townfhi&s, or fra°'ioniil; tarts
of tOtvnfhify% to be fold at In bqrfifA tee
of the 6th frclton of an f'J of Conyr:fs % puffed on
, the 18th day of May, i 7 96.
i ,1 —
( o o
I J ■?> £ »-3 «
It cn > K> U -d
u-,u — I u_ i. < »r
O 9 O O
I o o
000- « o «
112 | Z .
J ' lit Rancf. iSjh Township. 6tV+tTTtfSi-T
ift Townfbip J!ai2jft4o!eaeli ift Township.
18 15 65 14 p'4ol 17, I 3»o
19 z?6 95. 17^20,646 eac1i 18 ;»»oj
v 30 l.?o 75 t f 3311640 each 21 I B^o
34, 240 90 BthTnwnfhip. 21 r6' 40
35136 640 each 13 '427
2d To-, nlhip t7a2o 640 each ■■ 24 1640
J9 140 43 1640 17 uift 80
20 170 70 ir33o 64oeach 18*30 640cacls
11 185 3a.16 640 each : -j |<8
22 230 lothTownfbip ;4 ej»ch
25 488 80 raj J640 eaeh 2d Tounlhip.
26127 64oeach 5314 640 eachl 1 126
18 <6c t7a20'640 each 1 440
29 ?.tt 60 13.136(640 each; 3 448
30 j'm rzthTow nfh'p.} 4 4 ?6
31-36 4c ach 131-464 each 5 '464
4thTownSWp. r7320 64c each 6 475
19 64 , 23336,640 each 7 340
*6 if; fio 4*b Rangf. ja r 4 640eaeh
16 'h 6O ft Township.!
17 '- ,6 tA 64-each
>\rtrr h 4 u\
34 44 ' 10 34 Is
35 222 <;o 5 , ■> a qc
' <rav 4C e.y n 3
» IS S 7314 640 each
*7 i°4 15 o „ t7aao64^each
I* S. 7 ° 9a. 2 640 each
f 24 64c t v '
20 !,!n I7a2C 4 e3ch a
«S 80 '■ ■ - ' i: 3 ; ' !4 '
S 640 3d1. r 1,!p '4 MO
= ia 14 each J
2d Ran be .7aic 4?each 6
lit Towhfhip 54'olea'eh ea ch
i a 8 V,:|2o sthTow l ,(hip. 1:a1 ° 6 4 ach
3 34 6J 50 rai4|''4o|each ' ,4 ".: ,ch
, 3c Towiilh'p 7aj0i640 each ' x ov^nfhip.
I »cr, 23336 640 eath 1
i a 8 9', 16 - h'Fownfhip. 2 4"
29 64c tai 64o!each 3 <7^
' 3 e1 ha 7 64o'ea.-h 4 tSr 60
• 4th I'owr. !i:p 123J3 64: eaeh i <93
11 if 40 8319640 each - 01
12 39' e 25 640 7 al 4 'i4 r eaeh
13 J) w 30*36 640 each , 7 ilr r each
If 2- 50 9th Township- >4 -"ach
' J6 2-1, 20 1314)640 each 1 ownTjip.
17 5 2 4 17320 6 4 r esc 1, 1 al 4 r 64o,eatl>
. . 18 . 64c 23a 16 64c each 7«o 64c each
1? 63 ■ 1 TthTownfhip. 2.1330,640 each
20 80 iai 4 |64oeai:h llth r °wnlhip.
21' 21 '7320 640 each ia*4 640 each
t lia 36 64c aeh 23a36640each , 7 at j|'>4o each
jth i a'wn'hip. t 23*36 640 each
5 ki iai 4 6 4 oeaeh I3»>Triwnfhi P .
if 637 ij ic'h 1732G 640 each 1 aid '4-[each
e 2342564 ach 23336164 c each I 7 ajr:
k 2731864 ch ~ = |23 a 3'-640 each
323,664 c ach s ii
e 7lhTown(hip. „ "14 640, each
3 16401 '® 40 i7a2o 640 each
BthTownfh p zz 8 ? -5° ; 23336 64o.each
135 640 each I] til 5 ° 7th rTtjof.
' , It .HT.«n«»p.
J JAKJSSS 3JM« s- !„:■»
5 - iTM (.r >i Township. 1 9 2 9"
< k loan 64 each
64cV-''h : ' 0 I 14 30
23336 640 -ach x7_aiS 6ao each
3d Rangf. 5 456 | 19 J 4
ad Towijfhip- 6 464 8i 20 9^
15 640 7 2?o 'I 23*24 640 each
16 600 8 618 ' ,
10 557 SO ,9314 6 4 oeach i 6 3' ?lch
f aia22 640 each 7aio64ceach * ownmip.
23 609 23 336 640 each 1 al 4l^4o,each.
f 25336 640 eaclr 4th I ownfhip. 1733-. |640|e3ch
3dTownfhipJ *ai4 64oeach i 3 64c|each
9 188 60 17320 640 each «thTownfhip.
10 344 23336 64o!each l a l4|64°« a -h
11 267 6thTownfhip. T 7 a 2o 64c each
f *2 152 t SI4 S4c| ach 64 etch
II 14 202 50 r7aio64c|ach ownftip.
1 '5 630 'i 336 "14c 1 ach ism bleach
I6aiß -140 iach Bth Towriihip. 1 7- 12 ' j^4c|each
19 117 50 1 ai4|64oleach I 3 a 3 6 !o4o|each
20 616" 75 7340:64 ach 'oth f ownfhip.
21336 64o.each. Z3a3664 -ach l a i4j°4C[each
d 4th rownjhip. t ;th I'ownlhip. 1 7 a 2-|64okach
1 170 ia'4j'4- jeach "3 a 3 6 ! 6 4<"k a ch
ft a ?44 , , 7aj |. lt . h rlthTownfhip.
rs 3 J2O 13a3^1 401-acli 14r^4"i"ach
r 4 '4 50 12th 7 ai (J4 j a( -h
5 12c Ul4 >4 leach '3 a 3 f'4 |^ch
>" 6 64c ifUc 4']'ach 4'h : ownfhip.
7 563 13136 )4o|each ra i4' < >4~|e4ch
839 64c each :4th ! ownfhip 7 a 2c 64o«ach
j' 10 t4 3o iai4 ;40each :3a 36 64c each
n ' 11 52'. 70 1732 140eac! *thTo#nfl»sp.
I2ai4 640 ;ach 233364640 eacl 1 M4/>4o|each
y 17air 4c -ach '7aio 64o|each
>c 23*36 64c]each -3336 64oieach
; NOTE.
3. T
Un tcJ anil ulfo - f rt,„ft ormerlf fold *Vhe a F !
■ gregate quantlt, s.B the federal town hir, nr.fr,
... partiof township.., l ave bee, afcSei VS
» '- ey ; the quantity in particular lots or 1,
- b« a ,0 ether '
XiA'nds i>f the Unitad States.
.• Treasury Department,
8, 179 6 '
Public Notice is hereby given,
TM purfuar :e of an aA of Congress palL-d on the 18th,
dav of'Msv, 1796, entitled "an aA-providing * lor
thefik oi the Land* of the United Stares, m th • territory
north welVof the river Ohio,.an I above " the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the Quarter 10-v.Tp* o- land
drtcribed in the wncxdl fAedute, lying .u-thefeven rang
es of towafhips whieh were -surveyed in pursuance of an
ordinance of Cotigreft, pafled mi the twentieth day of
Mry »in the 'year one tkoufand fcvsn hjn (red an i eighty
fivfwillbe «,ofed for Me at .- YE VOTE, at
he Merchants' CoTee-HouTe i» PhiKSf. :ahw, on the 4 t'«
day of January next, and thenceforward from day
unt 1 the tenth, day of Fibruiry enfiria* unless the l#w
quarter townships. (hall be fo.-«r fold, in the m inner and
on the terras and conditions hereinafter mentioned : viz
ift. The laid quarter tow.tftiips (hall he fold to. be
' highest bidder, Wno sale can be made ;br left than two
dollar; per acre of the quantity of laud coutaincd in such.
quarter town ship. —
ad The highest bidder as before mention"!, mutt ae
oofit a* the tine of fa!e, one P-rt of the pur
- -Jfgfe money, in " ie i>ea(urcrof theUr.ited
$tate», which wi'.'be t'srfeitedif a moiety of thefumbid,
including the said twentieth part, fhill not be paid within
thirty days from the time of fa!e.
;d. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchafe-me
ney in the manner belortmem oned, the 'purchtiler, will
be tn-itled to one year's credit for the remaining moiety ;
and Hull receive a certificate defending the quarter town-
Ship purchased, and declaring th- furn pail on account,
tin. balance remaining due, the time when such JuKfife
becomes payable, and that the whole Lm i therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balapee is not then
paid ; but if the said balance (hall Ix duly difch trged, by
paying the fame to the Treaftirer of the United States,
the purchafcr or his ailijtfes or other legal reprcfentative,
fhali be entitled to a patent for the. said land,' on his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for I nch balance,
eaJotfed U ion th:; certificate. But if any purchaser lhall
make payment (Jf the whole of the purchai"t money ,<t the
time when the payment of the fifft moiity is directed to
be made, he will be entitled to a deduction of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to he
given; and his patent fhalljte immediately illtted.
GIVfiN und-r my hand at Philadelphia, tha day
and year abovcinentioned-,
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the "1 reafury.
SCHEDULE
Of Quarter-Townships to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
fiiaace of the 6th feAion of an aA of Congrtfs palled on
thelßthdayof May, 1795.
_ " 3~F~I
■o «> <£
• d. V *-
• C- . —
«> ~ r£Z [d >
S I * "Z
Cd ~ o £ jz
— H -
U-. ~ "• k. o <8
Owo c v
** <r*
o c C- *" 2 .5
■' C — 4J
z o IS
__J f
-2 ' South Eall 5120
North Ealt 5120
S uth Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
3 J South East Jt to -
Noyth East 5120
South Welt 5T20
North Weft 5120
20,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
9 South East 3 120
North East 5120
South Wefi 5 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
11 South F.al' 5120
North Eall 5120
South Well j1 20
North Well 5 1 20
20,480
4 4 South Eall j 120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
♦ North Weft 5 1.0
20,480
6 South East 51 20
North East ij 120 1
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
— 1 20,4.80
8 South East 5120
North East 5 120
South Weft! 5; 20
North Weft 5120
; : 20,480
10 South East 5120
North Etift 5120 *
Sontli Weft 51 20
North Weft £x 20
i 20,480
12 South East 5120
North Eait 3120
SouthWcll J1 20
North Weft 5120
20,480
5 3 South East 4602
North East 4654
South Well 5120
North Weft 5 120
, 10,406
5 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 512,0 «
North Weft 5120
20,480
7 South East j 120
North East 5120
South Welt' 5120
North Weft 5120 "
. „ 20,480
e 69 South East 5120
jNorth E;tft .5120
jStiuth Weft 5120
e jNorth Weft 5 1 20
1 ! 'J 20,430 j j
vTI 1 a. '
» «-3- (■
4 a. £ ~
£ IS o e • ■ i
-jc . *5 . " i I '
= .2- 5
3! <£ .3 » - Z
= H' n s j=
: • • § S < g S
' Z Sj is ;
f 5-s :
[ _ I __ fc_T___L
\ r ix S infh E'^sl2o
f Nnh Erst y 120
S mth.W- n 9120
£ North' W>'J! frzo
1 20,480
i ,rlt ' l ' ) » 20
rl N>! t)l tv'. I2a
8 .11th We 1 i2O
North Well C 1 20
f) 0
h 20,480
6 4 S xith Ei" 4630
> N.'ith Eafl 4620
Smith W: M- j 1 20
J 1 Nonh We'} J t2O
n 19.490
6 South 4730
>- North E'ft 47 I J
" S. 111' h Weft 51 20
j North Weft j 120
t, 19.685
e 8 South Eafl 5 120
North Ealiji2o
n iSoulh Welt 5 I 20
J .North Welti 5 1 20
?,' I - ' I 20,480
>- 10 SnUtTl Eafl's 120
iNorth. Ealljs 12c
" i South Wdtljj 20
I North Weft 5120
:r I; 20,480
e 12 South Eafl",? 120
North East 5120, S
y Soul!) Weft 9 I 20
North Welt 5120
20,480
14 S'iu'H Ei'! Ji 20
North E'!ft;i2S
Smith Wei! j 1 20
n Norh Weft 5 120
~ \ . ,~~ . 20,480,,
7 3 South E-" 120
No'th E i ,-120
S'lUfn Wr 1 ,'l2O
North Wt It J » 2C
— 20,480 y f 3
5 South E'H Jl2O
North Ea< !,• 20J
, t , Smith We|! -12p
North We! JI2C
: —- ... : 20,480 ,
t . 7 South Ealtjl2Q
North Ealtji2o
South Weil j 1 20 .1 j.
North Weft 5 [ 20
20,480 .
9 South Esf 1 c 120
r N?.>r*V I'-tf) ? 1 fnt ; J
South We 1 j t 20
North Weft ■; 120
—- 20,480
11 South East jI 20
Noith Er.lt j1 20
South Weft 5 120 «
North Weft j 1 20
20,480
13 South East y1 20
North Eafi y1 20
South Wei! J 1 20
North Weft 5 120
20,480
15 South EalTyizc
North Ea!' JI2O
South Well 5 1 20
Nor h Wtff 5:20
20,480
NOTE
THE quantities of Lands in the fevera] townships b«*
fort mentioned, irb eicijjSve.of the Se&ior;s reserved by
the United States. The aggregate quantities in the fevs»
ral townffiips, have beon afoertair.ad by adtual survey ; but
the quantities in the quarter tewnfhins, have been no
otherwise ascertained than by calculation.
, Washington 1
r.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through th- City of Washington, from th P©
tornado theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is „he SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -I Prize of ;o,coo dollars, 10, coo
I ditto 10,000 10,000 .
7 last drawn")
Tickets, each j 00 ° .
6 ditto 1,000 6,c00 <
10 ditto 400 4,000
30 ditto 100 S,coo
55 ditto jo 2,750
5750 ditto -13 ' 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 16,4j0
5850 Prizss,
11650 Blanlts, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
i£jr° The Commifiioner> have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aft for the punilual payment »(
the prizes.
The drawing of fins Lottery will commcnce, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
drawing is finifhed, shall be considered as relinquished lor
tile benefit of the C'anal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
WM. M. DUNCAN.SON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of WatVingtoß, Feb. 11. §
——— 1111—1 ~ "j
POINTED BY JOHN FENN O,
—No. 119 —
C H E.S N « T-STKE ET.
[Prkc Eight iJollars per Anrnim.]