of the Bnttetl States, % Philadelphia. Daily Advertiser.
*«»■.»»•] MONDAr *' ■
For HAMBURGH,
J O H N, &
Robert Jackson, Matter, ;£p,
To fail in fifteen days, "
two-thirds of her cargo en- built
•aged and ready to go on board. For freight or pafiage foun
apply to the matter on board at Wain's wharf, or to
John Donnaldfon, wK °
No. i 4 Walr.ut-Oiect.
J»iv 56e0,r ■ -
For Jl
James Wickham, Mailer, gpj^
— Expend to fail in all next week,
WILL take a lew barrels on freight. Apply to, the mas
ter on board at Stamper's wharf, or to
John Donnaldion,
No. »5 Walnut-street. «
Aug. 4 —iZ_
Sales of India Goods. J5
The Cargo ef the (hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal-
Jcutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
jf\ COTTON and SILKGOODS. -J
AMONG WHICH ARE Vjj
A variety fine worked and plain Mitjlins, jS
t>oreas, *t3*c. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, fcl;
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER, r<)U ,
For Sale by dy i
W tilings %£-Jrancis,
No. rt Pen a Street. ~ ~~~ j
feme 8 i_ ~
ELEPHANT. ,
This Animal is to be seen in High-Street, between I
the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street.
STTE will pofxtively leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep-
Jl tember. for Baltimere, in his way to Charleston, , fH
where he will win er.
ADMITTANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar
' The C pANORAMA, or the VIEW of the CITIES of
LONDON and WESTMINSTER,
Is to be open till the ioth of September, and the fub
jeft will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE- ,
PHANT. I
ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA, \
One quarter of a Dollar.
3- —i_ ™
A well-finifhed, commodious fer
HOUSE
For Sale, and immediate pojjejjion given,
SITUATE on the north fide of Spruce-street. Ne. 111, —
between Fourth and Fifthilrects. 'The house, piazza
and back buildings are three stories in height, and pet iettg (n
h well adapted for the accommodation of a large fanu.y,
as thrr _..-Ui;nt\<'ilyc good rori > n3 > exclusive of twociel-
ea (jarrets. In the yard, which is neatly paved, there are bo
' two pumps ; one in a rain cistern, the other of as good At
water as any in the city i The cellars are dry and huge.
The terms of payment will be easy : a great part ot the
purchase-money in all probability may lay for years on in
tcre<K Appiy at No. 109, next dseor eastward.
July 30 2 §iW v
Philadelphia, Weft-Che tier, Strajburgh, j
Lancaster, fork and Frederick-town f
S '7 A G E S.
THE proprietors of the above Stages, return their bed
thanks to their friends and the public in general, for
the encouragement received in this line of business, and beg A 1
leave to inform the public, that they arc determined to run
their stages through from Philadelphia to Lancaster m
one day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July instant,
in the following manner, — viz. A St'.ge will set out on
that da-- at 4 o'clock in the mbrning, from the house ot
George Weed, Market-street, Philadelphia, and run by
the way of Weftcnefter and Strafburgh, arrive in Lancas
ter the fame evening, on Sriday morning run to Wright s
ferry and exchange palfengers with the York and Fredej
ick-town flage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat
urday, and on Monday morning following, at 4 o clock,
said stage will set out from thefaid George Weed s, Phila
delphia, and arrive at Lancaster the fame evening, on
Tuesday morning at 4 o'cjack will set out from the house
of Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia
the fame evening, and will commence again on T hunday
morning following, and continue <?very week—The price
for each palTenger from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three
dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three quar
ters, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like sums for
Ijo weight with the usual allowance of 14 lb.
gratis to each pafienger, and 5 pence a irule for all way
paflengert. 3° §4 W
John Reilly,
George Weed.
Insurance comp. of the date of
Pennsylvania.
The Directors have declared a dividend of sixteen dol
lars on eaeh (hare of the capital of said company, for the
last fix months which will be paid to the ftnckholders or
theii legal representatives on every day after the ioth ]
in ft ant. 1
S. W. Fijher,
v « Secretary.
Augufl: 1. . _ . . _ diot.
UNITED~SYAT ES, ? Scu
Pennsylvania District, 3 ° '
Notice is hereby given,
THAT jmffaanttd a Writ to me direited, from the ho
norable Richard Peter#, Efqoire, Judge of the Di
<lri3 Court ol the United States in and for the Pennsylva
nia Diftridt,
Will be ezpofed to Sale,
at the Cuftom-Houfe. on Monday, the 15th day of Ah
-3 Bags of COFFEE
' 1 Bbl. SUGAR
1 Half do. do.
2 Do. do. TAMARINDS
} Kegs do.
1 Bags of Sugar and
3 Do. Coffee
The fame having bee* libelled against. prosecuted, and
' condemned as forfeited, in thefaid court-
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
Marlhal's Ofuce,-3oth July, 1796.
For Sale, Freight, or Chartej-,
The Scho«»ncr 1
&gk, ANGELICA, Fort'
NE hundred and twenty tons burthen—
/ fix months o'd, a staunch, faithf'lHy- Alu
built, faftSailing vefiel, handsomely finilhed off, and well
found in every particular. For terms apply to
B. RHODES,
On board said schoOner, lying at BicUley and Bohlen's
wKerf, the firft above Market-street. \ \
WHERE THERE ARE EOR SALE,
A few half-bbh. Prime Mess Beef- -
_July_34 r „ ■ s_.
Jamaica Spirits. t!l ,
JUST arrived, and will be landed on Tuesday next, at
Stamper's wharf, a few puncheons high p/oof Jamaica
Spirits. For Sale by .. J(
James Brown, A.i
. . No. 119 South'Secoiid-ftreet.
Who offers for Sale or Charter, ° n b
M A R 1,
BURTHEN about Zoo barrels, io months
old and well found.' Aug. 3 14 C _
For Sale,
Or for Charter tothe Wefl'lndies,
5 I" THE SHIP X S
c E R E S,
j Philadelphia Built, pose.
OF Live Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 3500 bir- all ca
rels, now discharging at Latimer's wharf. Thisvef- kepi
fsl is in excellent repair, well fouud- apd will bear a tho- °. ut t(
rough examination, and as soon as discharged will be rei- "^ a
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to
. . John Vaughan. i
July 18 S*
For JEREMIE,
schooner Hope, ;
- Mksi-'&ZL. Brig Betiey.
'* THEY are fad-failing vessels, and have elegant accommo
dations. For pafiage only, apply to
Richard & James Potter,
if Au g. j § No. 8 north Front-fireet.
For Sale or Charter,
BURTHEN about aooo Bbls. of flour—(he may be sent D :n
~ to sea at a small expence, her faHs and rigging being in 0 f Si
S very good order—apply to • Carr
fames Campbell, or
, George 'Latimer. I boia
t ' April 19, , . 5
ia Just Arrived,
'S In the (hip Molly, John Frcrft, Master, from Liverpool,
\l 5000 Bushels Best fine ftoved SALT, c "£
re 003 Bulhels HOUSt CO.'iL, icfi '
,d And 118 Crates of QUEENS W ARE affartco.,, lite.
e FOR SALE BY <f*' ;
ie Philip Nicklin & Go. j
a ~ M -1 ■ N. B. THE SPID
Ship MOLLY,*
TS for SALE or CHARTER, (he is b c
' ' years old, Philadelphia built, of white
oak, was well lalted nd carries about 42CC barieis of Flour. —
For terms apply as above.
2 3
° or This I}ay commenced Landing, V
eg At Vifflins wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop 1-2
un St. Jago, from St. Jago deCuba—confiding of thr
in White and Brown Box SUGAR. hi.
Nt, MOLASSES, of an excellent quality. wit
on COFFEE. eve
of HIDES and HONEY. Also, ■*»
fa y For Sale or Charter. tlO
S The brig LUC Y, ~
ej- A stout, strong vessel, will carry a
at- ./"A. bout 1100 barrels, and may go co ' 1
ck, sea with a very small etpenfe. J
:1a- The above will be fold f«r cath or approved notes. Rt
on Samuel Emery, w "
" fe No. 64, foutb Second-street. _
lay July 37. 79 6 - - d - f : - th
■ice Landing
r a e r t From on bsard the Nancy, William Belclier, maT- ~
f or ter, from Bourdeaux, a cargo, confiding of— 1
lb. 360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET, D
vay 2 , 2 Cases of 24 bottles each CLAR.ET, a ,
2 36 do. of 24 do. white Wine,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and ft
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS, la
— For Sale by
of F. Coppingei.
Joly 23. dtf.
doi- " For Sale,
the \ Three flory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chernut j
sor jL\ street, between Front and Second streets, in which e .
roth Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and r
now do) carried on business. si
PofTeflion will be given in one month, or sooner. a
For terms apbly t© WILLIAM BELL, or h
r- HECTOR CALBRAITH. i,
April 41. § e
: " Wm. HOLDERNESSE, 1
No. 16 High Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and c
the East Indies, a well feleftcd assortment of Silk
l>i- Mercury, Linen Drapery and Habertialherv Goods; which
>'lva- he w ;n wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms ;
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and (fiver .
Ah- Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
jj 0 do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffctiesjuteftringsand colored Pcrfians
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and Ihort Nanketns
English Mantuas of the firft quality
Damaflc table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant assortment
, and Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas —gre«i iilk, oil'ddo. and do cloth
a!. French cambrics, very fine
lri(h Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
Just Arrived P£N>
Inth brig Betsey, from Jeremie, and for sale. by IN T
the fubicriweis. » w n-
Forty thousand wt. of very prune Lottee b
in hogibeadsanrlbiigs
And, in &.s schooner Hope, from New Orleans. A
I BEEF r j
COTTON W
1111 and i*:c twe
LOGWOOD. f:. mu.
A Witral credit will be given for Approved Not«s. j u^iciß
and ; James Potter.
i? T ;%
Just Arrived, Att ,
In the Snow Boftou, James Kivkpatrick,"mafter from Li-
« vtrpool, f event l
5000 Rufhels SALT ; nine'Y
Ido Crates QUEENS WARE; and r An A<s
An AlTortnient of SHIP C HANDLE It Y ; tid
' r- F o R s A L E j e &
On board, at Pine-street wharf. Apw'y to the <
fames Campbell, or tow.
George Latimer. i> pr^
, s April V). ' grefs a
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given, en at
THAT agreeably to an afl of Cocgtefs of the Umlcd and th
States of Amcrica, passed at Philadelphia, the 281b day. , n d as
of May, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, fer the convey-
ance of peTloris, and repeating the'former acts for that pin- said cc
pose.—That there Ihall be levied, collected and paid, upon, tQ be
r- all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which lhad be 1 r j zg( j
f. kept by or for any person, for his or her own ute, or to st them ,
0 _ out to hire, or for ihc conveying of passengers, the feveial du
j. ties and rates following, to wit. cess o
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols. 0 J
upon every Chariot, 12 dols. r . s
opon every Poll Chariot, n dolii
run _ , ism c
«oon every Ph»e»on, with or without top, 9 dols ekver
upor) every Coachee, 9 dols. tdrne
upon other Carriages, having panne i work above,, lame
* witb blinds, glasses or curtjins, 9 dols. witne
upon four wheel carriages, having iramed pods and til.: al
top) with llsel fpiings, 6 dols. triCt
upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron t \ anxi
springs or jacks, 3 dots.
°" upon curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon chaifcs with fops, 3 dols.
upon chairs with tops, 3 dolS.
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols. A .
— upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols. t
upon two tfheel cartiage.-, with ftcel of ifOn fprtngs,
3 do,s- j 1 ru
For and upon all other two wheel carnages, 2-oo.s.
upon every four wheel carriage, having Iramed po is meat
and tops, and reltiug upon wooden spars, 2 4°»
The Colhftors of the Revenue of the nrft survey ot the
;nt Di.lnct of Pennsylvania, will attend daih ( until the 30th day j
in of September next, for the purpose of.reci ing ibe duties on
Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or Saffafraa street, in the City ~e c
ot Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clatr, E(q in the
County of Montgomery! and at the house of Abraham Du. the T
bois, Esq. in the County of Bucks; ot which all persons pot
fcifed ot such Carriages are defued to vake notice. c/«*p
Notice is also given, J proc<
I TO all retail dealers in Wir.es, and foreign diddled (pin- town
tupus liquors, that licences will be granted to them i one li Cout
1 , ccnc lor carrying or. the business ot retailing of mes, in a her
tc<s«.iaatstt, or in. less Quantities than 30 gallons—and one take
licence for carr\i«g on the business df retailing Spirituous li
qaori in Jcls qualities than so gallons,at the fame time and
at the tame places, by tile offictri legally authored to grant 1
loch licences. „
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpcftor of the Revenue of the hi ft survey
f ,f the diltri&of Pennfjlvania.
s i Office of Infpe£lion,at f
"" e Philadelphia 21ft I"lv, 1796 S ! Jl
)Ur. — — : ' 11 7
Twenty Dollars Reward.
— \T fAS STOLEN," lafl evening, ffotn the pasture of the \
W fubferiber, a black Rockingham GELDING, 15 I _
Dop 1-2 hands high, has i star, and some white under his I
1 throat, (the part being formerly chafed) ;has a leather on j
liis neck, the mane on the near fide, his foot-locks fretted j
with a clog, and is a horse of much bone dud size. Who- |
ever secures him with the Chi'ff, (hall have the above re- |
ward, or for the Horse atone a very generous cortipenfa-
don J»HN LAWRENCE.
Tulv7 W
TAKE NOTICE, >
oto T'HAT application will be made for the renewal of J_
J. the following certificates, issued by Jofepb Nourft,
Register of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Grit
wold, Esq. of Norwich, Conneflicut—
1 certificate, fix per cent domestic stock, No. 13,907
f dated the 17th December, 1795, bearing interest from V
—- the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65-100 dol- ]
1 ditto, tWe's per cent, dameftic stock, No. 10,682 nal
r —dated December 16, I79i> bearing interest from the
firft dav of January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dollars. —
1 ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,l66—dated the. 17th 1
December, 1795, bearing interest from the firft Jann- j
ary, 1801, for 798 83-100 dollars.
Said certificates are fuppoled to hive been lolt or T
stolen m this eitv fotne time in December or Janua;y I V
1 " tw
JOSEPH THOMAS, » 1
N0.59, North Front-street. j tOl
. Philadelphia, July 21, 1796. d6w. I
— A Country Seat to be fold
ABOUT t'even acres and a half of land near the three I
mile ftoneon the road leading to Gray's gardens and 1
vhich extending witfiagentle declivity from the said road to the I
(and r i V er Schuylkill^—on which are ere&ed, a convenient I
frame house suitable for a tenant, a frafne barn and stable, I
a large Brick House forty-eight feet front, two.stories
high, a very elegant piazza fronting the river, the whole j
H. breadth of the house supported with turned pillars, floor- I
§ ed with cedar plank, commanding an extensive and pic- I
turelque view of the MidJle tiridge, Gray s Gardens, the 1
j Seat of Wm. Hamilton, Esq. the ; Turnpike Road and I
Canal. The improvements are all new—and the ground 1
j coaveniently divided and inclofcd by new cedar fences. I
C SHk or terms a pp!y I S I Market-street.
which J»'y *7. e— - 7 — I
ns ; ' FOR SALE, T
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, I d
f * VCr in pipes and-hoglheads 1 111
Clat-et, genuine old, in cases
rfians Gin, in pipes, ftom Holland I d
Earthen Ware, in crates j t
Balket Salt, in hoglheads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Ear Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Rufiia, inbarreh
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas, I
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. I
§ July ?9 I s S
fcf ■ •
UNITED STATES, \
PiNNir.kvAKIA DISTRICT, J
IN THE NAME ANli 14 Y THE AUTHORITY
OF THE UNITED STATES,
By Ur IL Llsi M NICHOLS,
Mirlhal of the Pennfylvaaia Diiiriit, —
AFROCLA M A T I O N.
WHERKA3 tke Congrtfs qf the United States, at
the firflljeiiipn of the fouj tk CongrtiV, to wit, on
foe twelfth day of May Life past, pA'ffcd an a& v to rc£££t
To much of an s-H, intituled " Mtu& to eftei/'ifti-*/•«
Judicial Courts of die Unii.od &a directs tfcat tbi
aitsmatefefliors 01 the Circuit. tfovi* J»r.th*UU:u<& ,
PenEi"; Ivania, ihaii beWdtn at Yorluowu,; and for .
purpofcs, ill foikwing-words, to wit.
Fj>cfth Qocgrsf* of the United States (
At thef.rll ftffion, begun and held at the city of PhiTa
ddphia, in thi Stale Of P'enuMviaia. on Monday, the
seventh of December, «ne thuuiarid feyen hundred and
nine' y five.
An A<st to repeal fomucb of an aft, intituled "an
ci-iblilh the judicial courts of the United Str.tes", as di
reifts tliat alternate fclTlonS of the circuit coort for
the diftrift of Pennsylvania (hall be holden at York
town ; and for other purjofes.
Sefl. I. BE it cnactcd by the Senate and Hcufc of Re
presentatives of the United States of America, in Con
gress aflcrr.blcd, That so much of the fifth fedtion o£ the
afl, intituled "an a<S to establish the judicial courts of
the United States", asdiredls that alternate fcflions of the
circuit court for the diftriiS of Pennsylvania lhail be hold
en at Yorktown, be, and the Cune ,i? hereby repealed ;
1 anjd thu» all the feffionsof the said circuit court lhall, frpth
Y- and after the paffirg of this act, be holdcß at the city cf
' Philadelphia, excepting only, when at any fefiion- of the
" said eotyt, the judge? thereof lhail direA the next feflion
:1 ; to be holden at Yorktown , which they are hereby autlio
c rized am! empowered to do, whenever it shall appear to
them to be neccflary.
11. Atid be it further etiaSed, That all such pro
cess of the said court, as may have issued before the pac
ing of this a<sl, and all recognizances returnable, and all
fu.ts and other proceedings that were coqtinucd to the
fakl circuit court for the district of Peimfrlmnia, on the
' eleventh dt' Oilober next, in V.aiuewn, (hall now be re
tdrned, and held continued, to the fame court, on the
r,| fame day, at Philadelphia. And to the end that suitors,
witnelfes, add all orhers toncerncd, may kave notice of
d the alteration hereby made, the Maifhal of the said dif
tridt is hereby required to make the fame known, by pro
,n «lamat:on, on or before the Srfl day of Auguil next.
Jonathan Dayton,
Speaker of the House of P eprefentatives.
Samuel' Livermore,
Preudent of the Senate, pro tetripor*.
Approved, May the twelfth, 1796,
;s , George Washington,
President of .the United State?.
Dipofited among the Rolls, in the OHiceof the Depattr
Us meat of State,
ls Timothy Pickering,
" e Secretary of State.
J y I DO HEREBY MAKE KNOWN that all such
process of the said court as has, or may be issued, and a)l
recognizances vetut nable at Yorl.tnun afprefaid, on the Je
ventl day nf ORutcr ntxt, will be returned to the Cll edit of
the United States, attheC'ity Hall,'in the city of Phila
delphia, oh Tutfday, the ileytnih day of October next,' at
elive.io'clock in the forenoon, And.that all fnitsand other
proceedings that wrc cantinued to the iaid court at ,Yorf
ri- '.owri, will be held and continued at the said Cirev'it
li Court, at Philadelphia, on the (ama EU° enti day of Ofto
-1 a her next,- of which all pcrforis concerned are defirsd to
ric take notice, and give their attendance thereat.
GIVEN under my hand, at my office, in the
n of Psr.nfylvar.ia, the twenty-seventh of July,
"" 111 the year of our Lord one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety-fix, and of our Independence the
! twenty-fird.
ey | WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Marjhal.
; July 47 §2nr
Asjheton and James Humphreys,
• CON V/i V A N C E R S,
his I T TAVE Removed their office to No. 61, Walnut-flreet,
A~A. next door but two to the corner of Dsck-flreet,
ted I w^ere a " INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn at
ho _ I a moderate charge, with care, .accuracy and difpa^ch.—
rc _ I They likewise buy and fell Real Estates upon commif
f_ fioris, and procure Money upon. Lo ui on good security.—
The buGnefs of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NOTA
' RY PUBLIC is also tranfa&ed at the said office is usual
— by ASSHETON HUMPHREYS.
N.B. Good Notes discounted.
lof J uly s " eo^w
rfe, I i
I Prime R'ice.
907 I .
om One Hundred Tierces of Prime Rice,
dol- I Just arrived iu the brig Welcome Return, from Savaa
-682 nah, forfale by FOOTMAN & CO.
the I Aug. 6 5
Washington Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
t or I T"T THEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
ja;y I VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
I twohundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
I a Canal through the City of Washington, from th cPo
1 tomacto theEallern Branch Haruour.
v - I The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -I Prize of 20,000 dollars, 20,000
ICI I I ditto' 10,000 10,000
three I 7 last drawn ">
sand Tickets, each j *> 000 35,000
a the I 6 ditto 1,000 6,000
nient 1 10 ditto 400 4,000
able, I io ditto XOO 4,c00
ories J5 ditto JO 3,75 a
fhole I J7JO ditto 12 69,008
loor- I •To be raised for the Canal, 26,2,50
s/tht I jßjo Prizes, 17J,0c0
, and I ii6jo*Blanks, not two to a prize.
ound I —•
:es. I 17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
I «3p The Contmiffioners have taken the Securities ra>
*7t I quired by the aforefaid ad for the pun&ual payment of
I the prizes.
I The drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
s eld, I delay, as soon as the Tickets ar/ fold, of which timely
I notice will be given.
j prizes-as are not demanded in fix monthsafter tin
| drawing is finilhed, (hall be considered as relinquilhcd for
j tha benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accoifii.igly.
(Signed J NO'I LEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, cfD.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEOKGE WALKER,
mvaS) 1 W M. M. DUNCANtiON,
THOMAS LAW,
*D. I JAMES BARRY.
ij j City of Wa!hir£ton, Feb. 11. 5I- __ ~f\
■ - - ... -.
perity of qur country ; and we think the publia I '
will receive equal happiness in' reading the sol- J
lowing]
ACADEMY OF ARTS, fcfr.
AT a meeting' of the American Academy of 1
Arts and Sciences, .May 26, 1795» j
Voted, That there fee a committee appointed in
the three fourhern counties, the three weltern coun- I '
ties, the five eastern counties, and the four middle I '
counties, to enquire into ihe state of new arts and
manufacture?, which have been introduced, the I
time of the introduction of each, and the means
which may be had for the improvement of the
fame; the above committees to make an annual 1
report to the Academy at their meeting.
In oonfequence of the above; vote, a communication I
was presented lo the Academy at thiir meeting in May v
1796, by the Rev> Perez Fobis, L. L. D. one 11
of the committee ; when it was
Voted, That the Rev. DoCtor Fobes, be re- P
quefled to prepare a copy qf his report on the (late '
of new arts, for the press, and that it be pubiffhed. _
BENJAMIN DEARBORN, Ree. Sec'ry. 1
The fallowing, jail received, is theieport referred 3
> to in the above vote.
Sir, '
DISAPPOINTED in my expectation of af
fi (lance from either of the gentlemen appointed as d
a committeefwith me, to enquire into the state of '
new arts and manufactures, which have been intro- I
duced in the fouthetn counties, 1 have prefuined a- J ,
lone to exhibit the following account as the belt, *
which time and my opportunity for enquiry would 0
allow. ''
Sitice. the American revolution, there has been
in this part «f the country, not only a vety great T
increase of fotmer manufactures, but several new f !
ones have sprung up. Within the counties of I
Plymouth and Bristol, there are now in operation, ,e
14 blaft,-and si air furnaces; 20 forges, 7 Piitjcgf '•
and rolling-mills, besides a large number of trip
hammer (hops, and an almost incredible number of
nail shops and^others, for common fmithery. These 3r
furnaces annually produce, from 15 to 1800 tons ec
,• 0 f iron ware.—The forges, on an average, manu rc
faCturemorC than 1000 tons annually, and the flit- ' S|
ting and rolling mills, at left tons. The rol- J
ling and Hitting of iron*nay well be considered as 0
one of our new manufactures. There was indeed, ln
■upwards of 40 years ago, & flitting mill erected in
Milton, and another in Middleborough, but when —
compared with those of modern improvement, they a '
were imperfeCt and unproductive *. This how- VVI
ever, did not fail to excite the jealousy of Britain, OI _
and her Parliament soon interdicted this tnanufae-, *
turein America. After this, the firft mill'of the ,
kind we hear of, was built in Taunton in 1776 ; 11
this for a confiderab'.e time stood alone in New-
E»giand ; ;nd was then the best ever built in Ame
rica" ln thenar 1780, another was ereCted in
Blidgewatei, and soon after another in Kingston. I ? e
In the year 1787, the second, and in 179 1, the la(
third was built in Taumoa. Three others were ot
ereCted near together in the year 1793, viz. one an
at Stoughton, one at Plymouth, and'the second in a "
Btidgew iter. These are all I have heatd o.f with
in the limits of and except our, :al
they are all within the limits of the two counties f. a 8
The various manufactures of these mills, have gi- I a I
yea rife to many other branches of manufactures
lpt
us. I . r
From the annual production of three flitting and m
rolling million Taunton,which is not less than 800
tonsof iron,more than one half is again manufaCtur
ed into hammered and cut nails, spades and (hovels J
within that town, /. about 50 tons are cut, 330 w "
are hammered into nails, the remainder is wrought | " at
into spades and shovels. In the town of Norton,
the annual amount of the nail manufacture, is not
less than 300 tons. In Attleborough, too; in 5
-Raynham, upwards of 60, and in less quantities I
in fetrrtal other towns in the fame county. The j
town of Bridgwater ftaiids next to Taunton in this my
manufacture, and the firft in-all others, except mill aid
saws, which affe made of fuptrior quality in East- j thi
town. Although number of rods hap
cut in these mills are annually exported, yet an e- P
qnal number at least, are imported—so that the full
amount of all the rods cut fli these mills are manu
factured into nails within the limits of the old co- I ~
lurty of Plymouth. This manufacture was not an I
objeCt of any considerable attention until about the I
year 178;, when the general court laid a duty up- j
on imported nails of every size. This gave finewi do
to the aim, and motion to the hammer, which soon free
terminated in the complete eftabliftiment of the bee
nail manufacture. From 4or 500 nails indifferent, lun
Jy made by one hand,, in o»e day, more than 1000 as v
are now well.made in the fame time. The iron ala
(hovel manufacture began at Bridgwater, in about (hal
the year 1785. The moulds were then wrought laH (
under hammers. But in 1788, they pSffed thro' of (
the roiling mill. This improved method was owing of 1
to the ingenuity and enterprise of Samuel Leonard, Nol
Efq of Taunton. He rolled firft (hovel ever I ted
done in America. Since that time, the number as c
annually made in Taunton, has not been less than dill
100 doic-en, and more than twice that nnmber in IVh
Bridgwater. This expeditious method of rolling j ling
the patterns h»s reduced the price nearly to one not
half. Wire drawing, anxl rolling (heet iron for*he I ltd
tin manufacture, has been futvefsfully praCkifed in j Gei
one of the mills in Taunton, but the latter is now leall
an objeCt of more p art icilar attention at the rolling Lure
mill in Plymouth. The art of calling canaon, th«
cannon balls, &c. in air furnaces, ought to be rank- kinj
ed amontr the new and of our diflridl ellii
The firft furnace of this kind was built in Bridg- Exc
water soon after the commencement of the war; Fra
and when we eonlider the exnence of heating a poii
blast furnace to a ftlfficient degree for melting iron, Th<
and compare it to thnt of au air furnace, the fupe- 4,6,
rior advantage of the latter will appear, especially. fi(l»
for calling miiitaiy tiuves. Gnafmitheiy, or the bey:
art of makin.; fire-arms, introduced, wat al a!
but little prailifid in Bridgwater,'until after the bey:
Ameiicon war. Since then it has been carried to elef
gieatej pcrfe£tion in that town than any other, thev
The lira "uu, as well as the firft fcythc ever ma- ptoi
— f nufaftured in New-England, was mlde in Eii lp
j water. From this place, fire-arur.s are now esport
ed to Europe. The fuperintendant,, as well as
, 0 f j some of the principal workmen, now in thi armou
ry at Springfield, were original manufacturers from
p o i_ I Bridgwater. The art of making (teel was intro
j duced in Eaftown, by Capt. Eliphalet Leonard, in
1 786 : It has, lince that time, been made there in
p j very considerable quantities, and much cheaper
I tlun imported Reel. For purposes that iequirr
j large quantities of hard fleet, as in plow (hares,
•n- k° r k fh° e8 > &c. it is equal to any imported, but
I for edged tools in general, it ns found to be rather
below it.
he , T he manufacture of cut nails began soon after 1
j the revolution. Tht machine which gave it birth,
I was the invention of Mr. Ezekiel Reed, of Ab
ual ington. Near the fame time, and by the fume in-
I genious mechanic, was wade a wool t-id maihifte—
•gn I this gave rife to that manufacture among us. But
r who was the original inventor of that ufeful inftru
me ment, by which cotton and wool cards are now
I made cheaper and better in America than in any
re- I P art Europe, 1 (hall not determine. It is,
ite I ''°wever, allowed to be an American invention.
>c t I The manufacture of linseed oil. fir (I began in
Eaftown, in 1792, and from an annual stock of
e( j about 3000 Bulhels of feed, there has been annually
I produced near 5000 gallons of oil. There is an
I oil mill fn Plymouth, and another in Bridgenater.
as- I manu^a C^ ur c of (lone ware, of hand fellows,
as I n e,t ' e buttons, iias lately been introduced in
0 f I the county of Bristol, in all which the pivfent prof
_ I peil promises future success. In the towns of
a- ['Norton and Taunton, there is.a manufacture of a
I kind of earth or ochre, found there, into a pigment
Id I o^a dark yellow colour. This originated in Nor
ton. in 1776.
en ® ut ' h avi!, g enumerated some of the piincipal
at I ™ anu f a^ures °f this part of the country, the qtref- '
w I tion will now irife, how, or in. what manner can
of I the >' ft ill improved ? This already has been at- <)
tempted, and in some instances happily succeeded 3
jby the hejp of jnai-hinery. The machine_ 6oi m .k- c
p. j ,n g brleks, invented Ey Df." Apoflos Hitlt'ley of o
Bridgwater, ha» well succeeded ; from clay crude 'Is
fe and nnwrought, 1500 hricksliave been well mould- a
ns I ln one bour. The machine construCted for ihc b
j. cotton manufacture on the boundary of thisdiftriCt, P
t. ,s » although complex, yet a molt capital invention, n
j but policy at prcfent, conceals the annual pioduCt p
as t '" s faClory, The machine for cuttjjng asd head- ri
J f ' n g na:l3 at the pr|feTit time, invented by Mr.'Caleb ai
in Leaeh,* of Plymouth, has been highly commended a
, n —But with many it Hill remains a doubt, whether °
.y a machine so complicated, and yet so strong, as e<
would seem necessary to, cut and head iron nads.at si
cr 'e operation, will not be, at firft fu expensive, and d
p. j "fret wards I*° liable to % derangement as greatly to ~
diminilh, if not wholly destroy its utility—should
. this, however, happen, it will be less regreted, as a
youth of either ftx ?an with the machinery cut and
, head at least 5000 111 one day.
n . Want of lime obliges me only to mention—a t!
( new and ufeful improvement in making' window el
e !a(hes—A discovery by which, in 'the manufacture so
cJ of axes, the edge is made thin nearly as a knife, pi
e and yet fu'fikientl.y ftreng and durable. A method in
n alio of m- Iting iron in an air "furnace with one pi
_ third less fuel than has been ufuaily required. An t!
( ealy remedy for the complaint which has be/: 1 made ct
against rolling of (hovel patterns, &c. but these with ni
. a particular account of the manufactures of fmiff, pi
3 of wooden bellows for blast furnaces and e- or,
specially of combs, the annual amount of which, tr
3 in any town in Briltol county, is moro than tli
3 one thotifand dozen ; these, with some ethers I".
which did not occur when I firft wrote, may be the hi
s I subjeCt of some future communication—l am Sit, ry
j with friendfliip and efteJm, your most humble ferv tv
t vant - PERES FOBES. te
Mr. Benj. Dearborn,
t j Secretaiy ra
5 j * Mr. Leach was the workman employed to exe- &
cute in lirafs, the Planetarium, of an Orrery, the description
' cription of which I presented to the American Acade-
H my. In a letter which accompanied that description,
' I although an honorable mentioa was made of him to
• j that fociety,yet in jullice and gratitude to him, lam lo
j happy in having this opportunity to bear a iiill more
p jbhc attestation to his ingenuity,enterprile and merit; ca
I and to acknowledge the effentiai services rendered by
that ingenious workman. ,
• I ba
I From the SALEM GAZETTE. Ati
WHEN particular and interesting occurrences ' n i
! do not employ oil attention, we mult take a more dr;
1 free rang* among writers upon subjeCts which have
been thought ufeful and inftruaive, and which aie in
summarily treated. The following state of Europe
' as vre " as of the Ecclesiastical affairs of France, by' kii
a late Noble Emigrant, may be acceptable. We
shall give the statements in the translation. "In he!
aH countries, eveo among Savages, there it l class
jof fupetio* influence, the nursery of the government c oi
of the State.' Such are, among the French, the tal
Nobles. Among the Engli(h, the Bar, as connec
ted with Parliament.; Among the Dutch, Trade, fin
as connected with riches. The Dutch indeed, and
1 Kill more the English, have a strange eypreflion, ter
IVhat is he -worth ? The answer is in pounds Ker- rac
j ling : while a man's real worth is iu his merit, and °n<
Inoi in his money. Among the Spaniard?, and in np
Italy, the Clergy., lsi Prussia, the Military. In ligl
Germany, Nobility, with a Coat of Arms of at ca '
lealt sixty-sour quarter's. In Amcrica, ing
ture. Among Savages, fnperiar flrength. Among 1
th« Ttliks, Slaves educated for the purpose of ma- for
king Statesmen. The following is a short, inter- &c
elting, and probably authentic account of the late
Excleiiaftjcat (tale of France. " The Church of afti
France is composed of 18 archbishopric*, in' the ap- wif
pointmcnt of the King, as are the 118 bishoprics. of
The parishes amount to 34,498, and there are
4,644 annexed parishes. The regular clergy con
flits of 16 chiefs of congregated orders, 1100 ab
beys and tnonafteries, comprehending 16 large roy
al abbeys. The King names to 678'0f these ab
beys which arc in coiitmcndam, a«4 confirms the i
eleCtion of the others. Of religious mendicants coi
there are 1520 convents, divided inui 87 monadic of
provinces ; tbe endowed monafterits and abbeys a wil
i... r ..A.,.. ''"* ,
.lfr- mount to 557, 'of which z~o ave in the -oyal u>»- •
>rt- mination. 'The converts of differen: religious or
as tiers, of both fixes, are about 3800. The clergy
ou- aflembles every five years ; the other meetings arc
oni extraordinary'. According to different calculations
ro which have been made, there are in the kmdgdom
in about 366.264 regular and fecalar clergy, who en
in joy a yearly revenue of about 116,216,600 hvres
x'r (about five millions ft<!rling,J
ire 136 and Bishoprics.
es, livres 4,909,000
mt 11,850 Canons, 1 8,209,900
ler 14,000 Singers of the Choirs, 4^100,000
4,000 Children of the Choirs, 800,000
:er 10,000 Chaplain Fiiais, 800,000
h, 44, cc0 Curates, Piiors Curates, 46,000,000
b- 50,000 ftfondary Vicars, 7,c00,0c0
in- 60,000 Eccleliaftics employed in the
— Seminaries, Colleges,&c. without be
nt nelices
u- 208 Order of Malta, 1,735,000
>w 55,500 Religious of Chief Orders, of
ny Abbeys and Priories. 19,55^,600
is, 46,500 Religious Mendicants, of which
24,000 endowed at 250 livres each. 3,600,000
in Bo,oojo Nuns. 16,3,00,000
of v OF WHICH
ly 16,000 Order of St. Auguttia.
an 12,500 $t. Clara.
•r. 11,000 Clftertiars.
s, 9,500 St. Ursula.
in . 9,000 St. Benedict.
if- 7,000 Visitation.
of 4,500 St. Dominie.
a 3,400 Carrilelites.
Nt 1,500 Fontevrault.
r- 3,900 living on alfhj.
2,000 cf divers inferior orders.
a] And these returns are supposed to be marked at
f. only half their value."
in We are to remember that this is upon a populati
t- on of thirty millions, of which this is but about the
d 30th part, and that 20 millions of dollars is an in.
confiperable jiarjLftf U"' iftC nK's grrit rr *'
>f on. But this mighty mass has been deflroyed and
£ laid in ruins by the Revolution, and the misery of
j. all attached by their habits to this inftitutioH has
c been rendered certain. To dismember so great a i
t, part of any community, especially an adlive part, 1
1, mull have bean attended with great convujfions,
\ not presuming evtn to imagine the anguish from 1
I- religious scruples, quite diftir.ft from tjieir poverty,
b and the public injuries they must fultain. It was
d an eftabliftfbvent of tifurpatlou, but it was a work
rot time. The present generation were by national <
s j education and laws built upon it, and violence to ■
t humanity mull have been offij'ed in their immediate <
J de(Jiu£tion. 1
0 —WSHbm—— '
J From the South Carolina State Gazette, '
a — j
1 MeflTrs. PRINTERS, , - t
WHEN the service of the citizens ceases to be a
) the principal concern of the city wardens, and they e
r chufe to frame excuses for their non-attendance, and f
; some few of 1 hem chufe rather to flay at home and "
, pay the small fines inflicted on them ; instead of j,
1 meeting each oiher in consultation concerning the *
public weal: thus in consequence of their indolence, t
i the citizens are reduced to ve?y great incoovenien- ti
: ccs.—And it is to be hoped that the citizens at the
1 next general eledion for wardens will remember the c
, present worthy defaulters, and make choice of such
- only as will attend to execute with pundluality, the
, trull repofid in them. There is one entitled to ft
1 the following remark (viz.) Johti Johnfop, Esq. e
i He is a pattern of redlitude for the example of his si
: hereafter chosen competitors—There are many ve
, ry falutajy ordinances for the regulation of the ci
-1 'y but what do they avail, if not properly execu
ted.. a
And fhameful to relate, contrary to an ordinance P
ratified in the city council, 27th Feb". 1796, con L
cerning billiard tables, retailing fpiriluous liquors, ir
&c. See. money has been received by men in office, cl
and authority given by the fame, to keep a billiard <»l
table, and retail fpiriluous liquors. These are
f;i£ts, and fails are ltubborn things, and very hard -
to be controverted.
The following interrogatories, by way of short
catechism, are submitted to the citizens.
11 ft. How do the city magiilrates keep the sab
bath, or Lord's day, holy ?
Answer—By taking a moderate airing, a recre
ation at cards,„ r some other agreeable amusement,
and sometimes looking thro' their fingers, and wink- ad
ing at ah transgressors, especially at negroes and
dram fbops. -
2i. Is not profanefwearingand blafpheray heard T
in oar flreets both night ? nd day ? ' £
, • 3. C ,iot forellalhng, extortion, and everv ed
kmd of iniquity winked at ? dij
4«h. Are not all our laws, both to God and man ft
hclc m universal contempt ?
sth, Who are we to thank for the calamitous "
conflagrations,• that have so recently and repeatedly "
taken place in this Metropolis ? "
Answer—Our good magistrates, for not fuppref- "
ling vice and immorality 1 '
6th. The courts of juftic. flopped for the bet- in '
accol " m °dation of the magi'.lratei to fee the Sta
races. At that time of revelling and diflipation ine
one of the AfTociate Judges, gracefully galloping thc
h P h^d e f T , I thC I bet,Cr 10 ""vine! ihe dc g
■'V; ,' d f P CCtatprs ' ' I,at »>e really is-what you may .
Andtwoof hi, negroes follow -
mghisex mple in defiance of the city laws '
fnr Q^Cr f~ Sh l ould not 'be negroes have a burnt*
icLTc 8 lhe ' rmafler9 in evfl 7 species of vice,
It is earnestly wished these few hints may here- J ul
"b; P r °P erl >' alte "ded to, which is the sincere -
fh of many who are friends to j u ftice, and love.s
of the.r country : Among whom is,
Messrs. Printers,
Your conflant reader,
•2L in the confer. A
WINCHESTER, July 2 g.
county !^ 5 T mi V £d 10 the P rison of Ma
of I o,' q Snyder, charged with the murder of
' lim in the bet
a knife, iQ the county g f Hsrdv. 7 i
*
.
iii*' 'HIMIIMI I JMIP.JJJIWIL - y
°, r " Philadelphia, Augujl 8.
au . Extra&ofa letter from a [rentlemen at
: on6 Port, to his friend in Philadelphia, dated At!-
lom S oft ». 1 79®-
en- " F° r 'hefe three weeks past we have been alarr..
/res et * with the appearance of a fever fomwhinfr simi
lar to that which was so fatal ro the citizens of Phi",
ladelphia, though in no one inftrfhce can we trace
300 its h^vln g communicated by infedtion from one
(OO P e,^on to another; it wa3confi:icd to a neighrour
joo hood in Water-street, and it is the generally received
>00 op llllon that it took its rife from x flench, pro-eed
too in ff frorn a quantity of the entrails of fifh, w'ni -i,
, 00 were thrown in a dock and laid until they were in
ico a te putrefaction—live persons died from one
family, and four or five others from the neighbor
ing families ; the filth has been removed, and the
fever has subsided.
oo to all appearance is equal to any ever
known in this part of the Union.
oo
From an EngUJh paper.
oo Smith, Hijjgins, Lo Mail re, the persons im
oq plicated in the pop gun plot, are discharged, the
attorney general having declined to proceed ajjainfi
them.
Old Bailey, May 11.
Lad night ths Recorder proceeded to pass fen.
tenee upon the persons who have been convi&ed this
felfion ; that of death upon Henry Wefton.
Previous to receiving sentence, Wefton addres
sed the court, to which he.did not complain of the
hardship of higconviftion, but declared he had not
committed the crime with the fmalfelt intention of
doing injury to any one, being fully confident he
fiiould have hadthepower toreinftate the money be-
fore it would be called for. He attributed the
whole of his misfortunes to the allurements of the
gamingtable ; and solicited the recorder would so
far intercede with his Majesty to grant him a little
n _ "me to make his peace with the Almighty, whom
.* he mult haw- Spglily officadsd l»y Un pr^eeditaieij
it j attempt on hi» own life.
of ' T * m *
_ The Extrafl of a letter from London, this day pub
liflied, is from a refpedlablc quarter and deserves atten
a tion. It serves to (how what dangers our national
t, cbaiaiier has escaped, by the patriotic condiiifl of the
is, American people. It contains also good news for our
m Offering merchants. Minerva.
y, Extrat7 of a letter from a refpeEtablc American iii
as - ' London, to gentleman mMs city.
■k «, tr • r - London, May 19,1799.
Every information from the United States is ex
ceedingly interesting at all times—but inparticularly so
.0 v. hen our national affairs are in so critical a posture as
Ce they were at the date of the latest accpunts from Ante
rica. I had occasion to call on Mr. this morn^
ing, and from him received intelligence of fo'latea
date iroro Philadelphia as the 17th April. Congress
were then it seems engaged in debating the resolution
laid on the table by Mr. M'Clay. It cannot be, that
thelloufe of Reprefematives would be so mad, as to
ie aciopi luch a refolution—lt is impoflible they would
y ex P°fe hs to the honors of war, when we are on the
d evc fettling all differences with Great Britain am-
icably.
" decisions of the Lords of appeal have of late
been as favourable as we could expe&, they, have rj>
e v erled several ientences of condemnation grounded oil
', the orders of the 6th November 1793, tliey have de
i- termined to reflure all property seized and condemned
e by virtue of those order's if not otherwise liable to
e condemnation.
" Dodtor Nicholl lias been named as one, and I hear
a Mr. Anftey is the other, of the commilTioners under
the treaty, on the part of this country, A better or
futsrman could not have been fele<sled than the form
• er ; and so far aj I knew, the latter may be au equally
s suitable man." -
CARLISLE, July 27.
Departed this life, on tlie sth inH. after a long
and lingering illness, which he U>re wi;h Chriltnn
f patience, in the 88th year of his age, E%cliel
Dunning, Esq. He was one of the hrlt settlers
t in this county, and always maintained a refpedla'oU'
t cbatafter as a good and ufeful citizen. Ae wa» an
j aff> flionate huiband, a good neighbor, and an ho
. nest man.
This Day is Published,
: By WILLIAM COBBETT,
North Second street, oppojlte ChriJPs Church,
The Life and Adventures of
PETER PORCUPINE;
With a full and exact account of all his authoring tranf
adlions in America. By Peter Porcupine hiimfelf.
. 8, *3t
Diftricl of : to wit :
BE it remembered, that on the jth day of August, in
the twentieth year of the independence of the Unit
ed States of Amcrica, William Cobbett, of the said
diilfuft, hath depofltcd in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words
following: to wit.
" The life and adventures of Peter Porcupine ; with a
" full and fair account of all his authoring tranfadions :
I " c iog a sure and infallible guide for all enterpriling
" young men who wish to make a f®rtune by writing
" pamphlets, by Peter Porcupine
" Now, varlcts, you shall fee how a plain
" tale will put you down." Sh.vkespeare.
in conformity to theaft of the Congress of the United
States, entitled 44 an a& for the encouragement of learn-
m St hv securing the copies of maps, charts and books to
the authors and proprietors, during the times therein
mentioned. Samuel Caldwell.
Clerk of the District of Pennsylvania.
AUg. 8 |M4W
CABLES,
Fiom 16 to 9 j inches, for sale by*
Jeremiah Warder\
July l j § No ii northThird-ftreet.
MT AN 4RTIST,
Resident at Mr. Oellers's Hotel,
miniature likenesses
A RE taken and executed in that elegant and delicate
■i- 1- ft lie, which isfo neceflary torender a Miniature Pic
ture an interesting j^wcl.
He wijl warrant a strong and indisputable refer,--
blance; and he takes the liberty to lay before the pabbc
of this plact his molt earneit intention to defcrva tluir pa
tronage by his heft endeavors to please.
N. B. Specimens are to be fccn.
May li. §—i i i i-——, journal
BY THIS DAY'S mails. " no^ e l
» furred
NEW-YORK, August 6. pk." <
f<y- The following, with what has been already de• i rec\j
tailed in a few preceding papers, is all the intelligence if he y
worthy of notice, which the Paris papers, by the " Yes,
Fair American, contained. ters of
Continuation of latejl foreign intelligence, tnnflated
for the New-York Gazette, from Paris pa
ters, by the Fais. American, from Nantz.
r ' Th<
PARIS, 16th Prairial (June 4.)
EXAMINATION of BAECEUF. we no
This 21 ft day of Floreal, in the 4th yeat, before
us Charles Ceehoo, was brought Citizen Bafcdeuf, p er ,pi,
of whom we afl«d the following quellions, viz. his enem ;
names, age, proleffiou, place of nativity and of re- j
Cdence. An
To which he answered, he was named Graechns as
Babceuf, aged 34 years, born at St. Quentin, in citizei
, the department of L'Aifne; editor of a newspaper, Selves
generally dwelling in Paris, No. 21, rue du faux- a " d 11
bourg Honore, in the fe&ion of the Elyfian fields,
but latterly in several different parti of the com- of p ' 0
mine of Paris. lice o
What is the title of the paper you have late 3.
1y edited ? wj l ' l
a. " Toe Tribune of the People," by Gracchus with
Babceuf. u 1 r
How many numbers of this journal have you
publilhed ? riorj
a. Since the month of Vendematre to this day, t0 p „
I have published from No. 34 s o No. 43. pie ii
On what day did No. 34 appear ?
A. The sth Floreal.
Oi Haveyoa not preached in your journals, the
*e-eftabliihment of the constitution of 1793, and
the annihilation of that of 1795? f]
A. I always preached in favor of Liberty, and mo^
ag»in(Wyr»Bny. _ Unci
" Was it not your wiih to overthrow the pre- whic
sent government ? And was you not affociated-with that
several pei sons to effe<st it ?
A. Convinced Ujat the present government was "ant
oppressive, I woufti have done eveiy thing in my ft"<?
power to overthrow it—l was afTociated with all difoi
the Democrats of the Republic, but it is not the bells
part of an honed man to name them. ta vv
q_. Do you acknowledge that the leal of brass conl
shaped in the form of a long square, with a handle
of black wood, and on which a,level, and the words
" Publie Safety," were engraved, was found in yout
■bouse when you was arretted I Does this seal belong
to you ?
A. It was the sign known in the correspondence 3
of the numerous coalition of the Democrats, who all
detest, like myfelf, the dreadful oppression under 1
which the French people groan. by 1
What were the means you intended to em- thei
ploy for the overthrow of the present government. 1
A. All the means which might be lawful against and
Tyrants.
Was it not your intention to caufethe bur- COl
der of the members of the two legislative bodies, ons
of the executive dizz£tary, aiul of the conftituisiJ
authorities ? an^
A. I have no details to give on the means which
might have been employed—besides, they did not Mi
reft with me alone, I only had a vote ia the coun- Ma
cil of the Tyrannicides—the deftruttion of the op
pressive government, murder aside, would have been te»
fuffieient.
Are you acquainted with the citizens Rieord or,
Laignelet, Robert Lindet and Vadier, ex members -wh
of the Convention ? _ 01
A. 1 have no anfvfrer, no information to give on
any circumstance that docs not individually refpeft ap
myfelf. ' - po
Do you know the Citizens Roffignol, Mansard,
Germain, Darthe and Didier ? ' mi
a. My answer is contained in the one made to tne J ca >
preceding quei.*.>n. _ . an
Where was you the evening before lift; at halt ,
past 9 o'clock ? C(
a. I d 9 not recoiled.
Was you not in Honore street, in a house near ra
Vendome Square, m company with lome of the citizens so
above named ?
A. I do not know why the mail who interrogates
me, fuppofrs me so weak of unde! (landing as not to be
capable of perceiving the InGdioufnefs of this queftiofl,
and that it repeats the preceeding questions, which or
iimilar ones, I had declared I (hould not answer, he- ,
cause I think I ought n-!t to explain any thing that ■X
does not personally relate to me. |
Had you not fi*ed on to-morrow, the 2xd. as the jOl
Jay on which the infurreflion vas to break out ! : J,
A. It did not belong to me to fix the time on which g
any infurre&ion *ught to break out—had it depended
on my wiih alone, the firft favoraWe moment would
have been feizedforthe overthrow of Tyranny, and rl
delivering the people from the miseries that overwhelm c:
them. _ t:
We then presented him a box, tied with , h
firings, sealed with the seal above del'cribed, and hay-,,; t j
ing called On him to declare, if he acknowledged this 1 a
box as his, and whether the seal on it affixed ij the iame
that.was set to it in hiz presence, at the time he was zr- j
rested. He acknowledged that the box was his, and e
thai the seal was entite. He then broke the said seal. t
Wf then aflted him if he acknowledged the papers, J
inclosed in the said box, as belonging to him, and to
have been found in his room at the time of his arrest. g
He acknowledged them as his, and to have been found
in his room at the time aforefaid. (
Q. Among those papers, are there any written by
yeu ? '
A. This will appear in a proper time and place. t
Q; Did you compose any other pieces Defides the 1
" Tribune of the People ?" . 1
A. No. . (
The present interrogatory having been read to him,
he has declared his aufwers to be true and sincere, that
he persists in them—and signed with us.
(Signed) GRACCHUS BABCEUF, J
The Minister of the General Police.
(Signed) COCHQN.
Additional Examination of Babauf.
On the szd Floreal, we have caused Baboeuf to be
broughffrom the Abbaye, and to appear before us Mi
nifler of the Police.
Webrok - the seal which had been fixed yesterday,
and "oimcdiately proceeded to the examination of the
papers < oniained in Uic said box, in the presence of'the
laid citizen Baboeuf.
In the fjfi place w<; found 47 printed papers and
journals, by JjfTercnt authors, -wfiich were marked and post a
noted by us and the said Baboeuf. t0 Q a
We then found a printed notice, entitled, " The In- Q eß
furreftional Commijtee ef Public Safety to the •
pie," containing ii articles. On being aflced if this 1 _ e '
paper had been composed by hin., and printed by his a '' urc '
diretflion ? he answered "No." We then alked him have 1
if he would sign it ne •varietur, with us— Ihe b;
" Yes," and immediately affixed thereto the initial let- Kbtn<
ters of his name. 1 e d f rc
(Signed) COCHON. of th<
Pieces found in the fioffeflion of she Confpirtttors, lately
arreted in Paris—andpublified by authority.
The InfurreiSlional Committee of Public Safety,
eonfidering that by the infurre<£lion of this day, all ci
vil and military authorities sftabiilhed by Tyranny,
are ' Xn
Considering that it is of the utmofl necessity to put 1 1
in all the brjve defenders of the Rights of the very
' People, to watch over their intercfts, and keep their difpl;
' enemies within due bounds. Hun
Decrees as follows, zelle,
Art. u The Revolutionary Committees are reflor- aun j
i «d as they were on the Sth Thermidor, id year. The cum(
I citizens who composed them are held to aflemble them- .
, Pelves immediately at their former places of meeting ; c
and they will give an account sf their installation to _*■
the Infurreflional Committee within an hour. nier,
' 1, Citizen ,is appointed otir General Agent dern
'of Police, in the place of the Bureau central of the Po- X
lice of the Commune of Paris. at ar
3. The Revolutionary Committees shall correspond mon
with the said General Agent —who (hall do the fame
s with the Infurreftional Committee, from whom he arm 3
wilt receive his order. |" ers
4. The Infurreftional Committee nominates Citizen MO2
u General in Chief of the army of the inte- A
rior, and of the armed force of Paris. —He is ordered ceiv<
> to put himfelf at the head of the troops and of the peo
ple inftaatly, to execute the orders of the Committee.,
(True Cony.) _
The Minister gf the General Police,
(Signed) COCHON. >ng,
__ favo
PRINCIPAL INSTRUCTIONS. Jum
The Manifefto of Infurreflion Ihews generally the f ron
moll essential operations : We have however thought
ii uctcHuTy lo fwnOH Hie llct.iU
:- which you will combine with the military plan, and
h that of the general execution. q^
As it is said in the Manifefto : At the very in
is Rant of its publication, the nfiVmblies of each di- ,
y ftri& shall meet at the place of geueral alfembly in J
II difordei, and by the found of the tocsin (alarm
ie bells) and trumpets under the condudl of patriots,
ta whom the Infurreclional Committees shall have
fs confided banners, with the following inscriptions—
le Constitution of '93. ua(
,ft Banner, fen?'
Jt • r lf3s
,g General Happinels.
Those who usurp the Sovereign-
ce 3d Banner. - ty, ought to be put to death , /cr
,H J by Freemen. , av
er The Generals of the People will be distinguished _
by three coloured tibbons, floating visibly round j ta
n- their hats'. t h.
it. To have the gates and the river wed guarded ; R |
ift and not to fuffer any person whatever to depart the
city without a formal and special order from the
ir- Committee of Infurreftion.—Conveyers of provifi
ies ons aie to be prote&ed.
td To ftiae the Dirrflury *nd,the two Councils, fio
and judge them on the spot.
ch To take poiTefliort of the National the
,ot Mint, the Poft%Office, and all public or private
in- Magazines of Provisions or Military Stores.
10- To seize the Ministers, the General of the In
:en te»iot, the temporary Commartdant and the btsff.
To kill on the spot every Direftai, Adminiftrat
3rd or, Deputy, Judge, Officer or Public Funfliofiary qv
,ers whatever, who may come forward to give orders, tg
01 to exercise any authority. q
on To arrest evs>y Deputy or Director, who m.y ,
appear iu the ftraets, and to conduct him to his j n
post for immediate trial. ar
ird, To exterminate all tippofers ; also those -who
might beat the General: as this is a Government w
the . ca ll ) the People (hall not use it—only the tocsin
, ... and trumpets. ol
• To exterminate also every President, Secretary, h
Commandants of the Armed Force of the Confpi
near rators of Vendemaire, who in like manner may be
zens found in the ilreets. 0
All other exterminations (hall be made known
rates hy new orders. p
? be ' (Certified to be a true Copy.) j
Lion ' rSienedl The Miiiiller of Police, f
1 , ° r L COCHON. ' n
that I E* traft M 3 let,er fi ' om Rati fc° n ' date<3 Ma y Z2 * f
| " One of his Imperial Majesty's cptjriers extra-
s the j ordinary, charged with dispatches for Count Louis !
' de Harkembersr, his mi-ifter, near the Court of
hich St. James's, passed through this city in the greatest
nd 'i < j haste. He confirms the news of the signal vifto- {
°and " es l^e French army in Italy, and of the in-
helm credible losses which- the House of Austria has fuf
-1 tained in that country. He adds, that these events (
with j have thrown the court into the utmost confterna
ha y-i tion, and that 15,000 infantry, 5 companies of
* artillery, and 50 pieces of cannon, have passed
ial " e i through Vienna, for the reinforcement of the rout- (
ed army, but that it was feared tbey would arrive
"eal. too late."
ipers, Extract of a letter from Hanovei% dated May 18.
nd to « War, that dreadful fcmirge of mankind, is
n-reft. extending its concomitant evils to this country.
foynd (( We are reduced to the brink of ruin, by re
, quifitions of all kinds. The King of Pruffin, tin
der the pretence -of protefling the line of neutrali
ty, causing it to be refpeAed and to prevent an 111-
s the vaficn in the north,,has sent us a contiderable ar
my, which, including our own, may amount to 60
or 70,000 men, three-fourths of which we are
' hi . m ' forced to maintain. In (hort, our fields are desert
ed, nearly all our young men having been destroyed
; since the beginning of the war. We are likely to
ice. lose the remainder, as the recruiting service (till
1. continues. Wc find no difference 111 the dillrels
* inflicted on us by our foes or our friends.
" If the King of Prussia and the Landgrave of
to be Hesse Caffel have, like us, made peace with the
us Mi- French, what cause have we to fear them or the
Hollanders ? And certainly there is no danger to
erday, apprehended on the part of the Houle or Au
of the „ . r „ ,
of'the na - CRFVELD, May 25.
rs and Cm. Damas left this place vefterdav. for his
i post at Audernach ; Gen. K'.cber accompanied him co
to Cologne, where they will have a conference with ordered
" Gea. Jourdan. It seems that some great blow ii 01 1 e '
intended to be (Iruck on the Hundfruck iwe are £j fn(
* assured that the greatest part ps the Auftriau army ,h e anr
„ have crossed the Rhine, on its way io that river: masido
d the baggage wss left om the right bank of the their o!
c- (thine, under the guard of four regiments ftatioo- recomn
ed from the Sieg to Mayence. Tt,t head quartets wll , a 'j
of the are by this time at Creutz
j nach. _ truiftnj
y A camp of French and Batavtan troops u about
to bi formed near Cleves. y o f,
>> COLOGNE, May 27. House
The camp near Bruhl will remain there to ob
'■ serve the Auftrians encamped on the Sieg.
ut the troops in this quarter ii not Cap
lie very confvicrable ; but there is the Mtmoft activity j raihs, .
'' r displayed on the .fide of Coblentz, and on the j treated
Hundfruck. A flotilla is equipping on the Mo- b T
zelle, cor.lifting of bomb ketches, fire ftv.ps and n ° r |* c ;
,r " gun boats, which are to be launched as fooo as cir- j- Qr a
I cumftancet. (hall require it. Sails, rigging and an- f rom ;
r . chors, have hfen put in requisition. mama
to The camp at Wildg, commanded by Gen. Gte
nier, was raiftd this morning ; the troops arc un
:nt der maj-ching orders to Audernach.
>0- The General in Chief, Jourdao, t this place (
at an early hoar yesterday ; he was followed this, w '
morning byOen. Et;nouf, and all the ftaff of the EE
army of the Sambr* and'the Meufe. Head quar
rers are removed to Munfter Maynfcld, beyond the
ten Mozelle. . B r jg
te- All the boatmen of the Lower Rhine have re
red ceived orders to leave this place.
eo " Shoot
ee - SALEM, (Mass.) August 2.
By capt. Giant who arrived on Saturday even
ing; in 47 days from Bourdeaux, we have been
favored with French papers as late as the 7th of
June —seven days later than any on the Continent ;
the f rom which are the following translations. Ship
ght £\Vhat follows is a handbill printed the day Captain
Ails j'. mm * Grant left Bourdeaux. ] T
ln d glorious victory ! and
Obtained by the Army of the Sambri aud the Meufe., by have
VI" which the left of the enemy amounted to two-thousand V
fuu'r hundred men, of-which a thousand lucre made Cap'
' prifonert, with their Staff-Officers. 'Mr.
,rm Cha
ots ' • PARIS, June 7. ing
iave DUCHATEL, Representative of the People, FatT
s to Citizen DopUntier, President of the Adminif- f
tration in the Gironde Department. Cap
As a post going for Bourdeaite with dispatches, 'I
li3s offered me his services, I seize with joy this op and
portunity to inform you of the Good News, which coal
will soon spread far and wide among our good citi the
1 zens. 1 promised you in my lall letter thepartieu ano
lar events in Italy. The papers to which I refer den
, you give yoa ample fatisfa&ion. It is not in ter
' u Italy only that the French fignaiize theii courage, 1
they have gathered laurels upon the borders of the is g
!ei ?' Rhine. They havn gathered them at their firfl
r !j f llrps. Gen. Jourdan the worthy rival of Buon J' 1 "
. c aparte, has defeated the Duke of WirtemWg. Ac-
' cept'the substance of a communication from the
"Diredoty aeUreffcd to us this day upon this oce»-
ICII6, r •
Inn.
" After ourfuccefsin Italy, we expsfled that the bui
,' llie Emperor would sue for peace. We were deceived. Ne
lvate Austria has broke', the truce which the French had
maintained for the good of humanity. But the do
" army of the Sambre and Mease has undertaken to all
'make them repent of it. On the 30th May, the
liat " Republican army took many advantageous politions fai
on the Hundfruck. On the 31ft, the enemy at-1
s ' tempted in vain to dislodge them. The divisions of riv
Gen, Marceau and Championnet'contributed great
m,'.y ly to the success of our arms. On the fame even- w<
1 :,n g» the armed force commanded by Gen. Kleber, I
and supported by other divisions, passed the Sieg, A
who and attacked the enemy, who loft 2400 men, of na
me ' n w hich 1000 are prifonets, and a whole ftaff ofoffi- jna
;oc cers. The army pursued the enemy with their bay- j
onets. and flew to frefh vidtories. The Directory
:ta ;y.' has prqmifed to publish the circumstances of this j
" P l ' memorable affair in the Official Journals." .
a y be We enjoy a victory of a different kind, and it is K
over some late attempts of infamous fpeculatois, in 5 <
nown concert with England to destroy the credit of our tOl
paper mo ß ey. These wretches are as completely 1 IV!
defeated as the Auftrians, and despair of any future
f ' success. The mandats which their infamous busi
ness had depreciated to 96 per cent, have risen e ,
Jy 22, suddenly, and at this moment are up to 86, and c .
extra 1 jj,j' g have a most favorable afpeft.
" 3 f live body is firmly determined tafupport she law of \
Urt " the 26th February. You will find pro 9 fs of it in P
, ea i C what I subjoin. 1 cannot deferibe the joy of all <-
, v . friends of the country. What a joyful fight. Each c
c r* congratulating his friend, and 'continuing to repeat, -
as lul- at cmquer a ]i our enemies, the Specula-1
eveuts the Satellites of Despots. I .
ftetna ___ I »
,ie 6 «- GENOA, May 23. !
P The Canton of Berne has ordered all the French
er ™ l " emigrants to leave their territory.
ar " Ve In Corsica, the insurgents have taken Ajaecio, 1 1
and on the Fort is displayed the tri-coloured flag. \ j
? y , •' They have fonnd a plenty of ammunition, and are
' 18 in a state of defence till they can have succours from
7\ the French. The Viceroy of Baftia was marching
yre to attack the infurgentsj but they had intercepted I
entrati" his P roviflonß> Zamplinolias the chief command a
mong them. " I
'a" lB " The Letter cf.nj! ofMayJireHti to General Jourdan, I
ble JT' andfent by the Major Schonai.
it to 60 Monsieur, the General, I
we are The Arch Duke Charles, cammander in chief of the j
desert- Imperial and Royal army of the lower Rhii%e, and that
iftroved of the Empire, has notified me, that whatever deure I
ketv to his Imperial Majesty might have to spare funering hu- I
n n manity, the calamities of a new campaign, the urita-I
' vorable disposition of the French Direaory obliges him j
oiltiels tQ f U pp re f £ a n hopes of peace, and to take arms again j
to end a diftrefling war, which is contrary to his incliD
jrave of ation. In consequence I have the honor to notify you
rith the that the bearer of this mefiage, has orders to remain
or the with you 'till the expiration of ten days, tobereckon
tn ed from his arrival at your advanced posts, and that
*} A from that .ime, the condit : ons of the armistice, and
0 the fiifpenfion of arms will cease. You will.De so kind
as to inform me of thearrival of this officer, and jf tae
receiving of this notification.
r or \,; s e wnw imt trmv
% % f * . ' * *
la consequence of this notification, Gen. JouHoi %
ordered every disposition to be made for the opening
of the campaign on the 23d.
BRUXELLES, June 1.
General Jourdon concerts his movements with
the aimy of the Rhine and the Moielle under the com
mand of General,Moreau. A jun&ion fee.iib to be
their objecft, and fcould they aecomplifh it, they
recoinmenfe the blockade of Mentz. 33,000 men
will attempt to reach Limburg upon the Lihi:
A considerable French Fleet is in the port of Fluih
ing, it U faidto join in the North sea a Dut,h Fleet
truifing there 1 .
BOSTON, Augujl 2.
John Reeves, Esq. tried for a libel on the "two
Houses of the Britiih Parliament, was found -'Not
' Guilty."
From MARTINIQUE.
:| Capt. Benet„in io days frop thence fays, the CTha
• | raibs, at Si Lncia, with the French, 3cc. That had re
;* treated to the mountain, on the capture of that I(lai iir ,
| by the English, had «row« so powerful by collecting
I together, that they had driven the English into the
principal fort, and obliged them to fend to Martinique,
" for a reinforement of troops, which actually failed
• from Martinique, the fame day with Capt.Bennet.
Philadelphia,
MONDAY EVENING, Aucust 8.
married. —On Sunday the 7th inft. by the Rev
C Mr. Gamble, of Cheftjr County, Do&or Gesrgk
j Weed, to Miss Nancy Rowan, both of this city.
ARRIVED AT THIS PORT.
e Day*
Brig Commerce, Woolis, N. Mole, 17
Amiable, Creole, M'Keevtr, Port au Prince, 16
Mary, Jenny, Jamaica, 31
Shooner Phcenix, Gale, Lisbon, 53
Three Sillers, Smith, New-York, 8
Polly, KMand, Pafiamaquody, 16
Isabella, Clifton, St. Bartholomews,
Sloop Friendlhip, Matthews, New-York, 8
ot Eliza, Jackson, do. 3
: > Flora, Conyngham, do. 7
Ship North-America, Crefwell, Londonderry, 77
in Union, Fraterna, Jose Rosa, Leghorn, 109
The Ship North America, from Londonderry,
and the Swanwick, from Belfaft, with passengers,
by have arrived j» the rivet.
nil Wednesday last failed for Bengal the (hip Ganges
di Captain John Green, with whom went passengers,
Mr. John Guest, Mr. Richard Willing, and Mr.
Charles Francis, all of this city. On Friday morn,
ing they left Ncw-Caltle ia company with the (hip
le, Fame, for London.
if- Arrived at the brig Morning Star,
Capt." Steele with passengers from Londonderry,
es, The North America had a passage of 11 weeks,
>P ani has 370 passengers. On the 4th June, on the
ich coast of Ireland, had 30 passengers taken out by
iti- 'the' Union, in company with the Sarita Margaret;*
£U another British frigate. Spoke the Barque Provi
fer deuce from the Havannah—the (hip Aurora, Sat
in ter had arrived there from Philadelphia.
ge, The Ship Swanwick, Capt. Joughiii, from Belfaft,
the is rona into Wilmington.
ARRIVED AT THE FORT.
0B Ship General Waihingtpn, price, Cadiz, 44 days,
a Barque Providence, Jones, Havannah.
Schooner Peggy, Lynes, Jerenre
the The Ganges, and another (hip, lay at Reedy lilaad
:c *~ lift Saturday Evening.
The brig Polly, Hannah, from Philadelphia, to Ham
the burgh, was spoke by Capt. Crefwell, on the banks of.
fed. Newfoundland, 13 days out.
had The brig Morning Star, Steel, failed from Lon
tbe donderryjune 5, and has brough 350 passengers,
) to all in good health.
the The Ship Deborah and several others were to
ions fail in a few days after.
r a t. The brigs Flora ind Ceres from this pott are ar
>s of rived at the Havannah.
reat- The Florida, Woodman, and schooner ,
ven- were to fail for this in a few days.
:ber, Tae ship Union, Fraterna, failed from Leghorn
sieg, April 21 —and from Gibraltar June 5. Left 3A
1, of mtrican veffelt; one of which a Philadelphia brig
offi- name unknown.
bay- Arrivals at 80/1 an, Augujl I."
or y Schooner Apollo, Mallus, from Greenock, 53 days.
this eft there ""P Po "y» Cheefeman. July 6, lat. 42,50,
long. 49, spoke a (hip from Ocracoek, for Londonder
. ry. July 18, lat. 43, long. 57, 30, spoke a brig from
litis Kennebeck for Liverpool. July 13, lat. 41, 41, bng.
I6 > > n 59, spoke a (hip from Salem, for Copenhagen, 6 days
four out. July 14, lit. 4i, 4»> long- 62, 30, spoke brig
etely Minerva, Hinkley, 48 days from Lifban for Boftoß.
uture Schooner Helen, Bennet, St. Pierre, Martinique.
bufi- J u 'y I 7»' at * 7» French frigate Felicrte, in
• r company with two other (hips of war, on a cruize—
" examined the fthooner's papers,-broke open the letters
1 on board, and then allowed her to proceed. Left at
gifla- Martinique, Capt. Cunningham, of Boston ; Capts.
aw of Worth and Smith, of do. Capt. Hewes of Newbury
it in Port ; Capt. Allen? of do. Capt. Freeman, of do.
of all Capt. Ropes, of Salem; Capt. Gardfter, of WifcafltfT
Fach Arrivals at NeWrTork.
> Deat Sloop Defence, Judfon, St. Bartholomews
•cula- Rachel, Tyler, Petit Guave
Ship Grand Turk, F. Mallaby, from this port,
is arrived at the Ida of France, after a passage of
144 Jays, all well.
rench FRENCH BRANDY.
aecio, QIXTY PIPES good Fourth Proof French Brandy wilt
i flaf Obe landed to-morrow or the day after to-morrow, and
. forfale. Enquire of Me 1 ". 3.
s from Odier & Boufquet Brothers.
rching Aug. 8
cepteJ ■ For Boston,
land a- The Schoo-er
SmIT Friendinip,
Joseph Mathews, Matter,
Aftont, staunch vessel—will positively fail on Satur
day next, and will take lreight 011 very low terms,
nd that Enquire of the matter on board at Hodge's wharf.
■ desire Aug. 8 —
•"unfa- tor Rotterdam,
ges him '^' ie
; S S" Catharine,
:ify you Jqhu Farraday, Majltr,
remain TTWO thirds of her cargo Will be on
reckon- t oar( l thi» week. The. remain:":;
ltd that 'third wfl he taken oi) freight if offered soon, as ihe -.vill
ce, and positively fail in.all next week. A few passengers can be
tfo kind well accommodated. For term? of freight or paftage ,
id of the apply to the captain.on boa*l at Mr. Thaddle's wharf, cat
JOHN CRAK/j
» a.v . lasastiß a.. -Philip Nicklin & Co.
V N HAVE FOR SALE, 1
Scuchong '
Hyson Skin / ii
Young Hyson S- FRESH TEAS t
Hyson and - ; \ 0
Imperial
Yellow Nankeens '
China Ware, aflbrted i» Bex;» and Cheftj
Quicksilver c
BantVnno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
duAs
Lomdon Markit MADEIRA WINK c
London particular S- in pipes, ho< (heads, & '
Ntw-York Market j quarter c4f.cs (
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and kogfeeadf
Sugar Candy by the Box ' t
Sail Canvas No. x a 8
Lead in sheets
Casks of Cutlery aflbrted
A fevd l chtftsof Marichefter' Goods, aflbrted thick
fits, cerds, striped "Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages ef black sewing-silks '
ii Tierces Virginia Snake-Wot.
Nails aflbrted in casks c
July 18 mwMf I
A Great variety of elegant Globe and Vaje
L A M P S.
FOR halls and entries, dftbe best London glass, with j
pullies, balance weights, and every necetTary appen
dage, of flzes suitable to accommodate buildings of all
dimen lions.
Also, an afibttment »f Lamps, adapted for the use
of pirlonrs, chambers, countiilg-houfes, with patent
burners, wick, glafles, &c.
fu/l Imported, and For Sale by
VJ. P O Y N T-E L L, c p
No. 7®, Chefnut, between Second and Third Streets, y»
Also, ahandfome alignment of mahogany knife ca- "
fes for fide boards.
Augufl 4. fmwtt.
' f~RO P 0 SA L S T" a'
FOR CAR RYI NO THE
Mails of the United States, p
On the following routes, will be icceived bv the Poftmifler ,j
at Savannah, uotil the firlt dayof September next. c ,
J. From Savannah by Sunbury to Newport Bridge, once a e
aitik ri
Receive the Mail at Sivannah every Saturday bv 9 A M,ar- - t |
rive at Sunbury by 6, P M. and at Newport Bridge on Sun- j,
day by 10 AM. Returning- leave. Newport Bridge on Sun
day bv 3P M, a»d arrive ai Sunbury in the evening, and at a
Savannah on Monday by6>P M..
a. From Newport Bridge by Darien and Brunfwick to St. p
Mary's, once in tuo wfeis. (
Receive the Mail at Newport Bridge every other Snnday
noon and arrive at St. Mary's the next Wednefdav bv 5 PM. ' c
Returning. Leavr St. Mary's the neat day, Tburfday by 8 A t ]
M,and arrivea Newport Bridge\he next S indjv by 10 *M. t ,
Note 1 If either of the routes vre titer et( h law, during the con
tinuance of the CcntraaS, the Contrattor is to '* such alterations
in carrying the nail, ana hit pa\ is to he encreafei »> dimihifhed, in
proportion to the dijlance emreafed or diminished by fuck alteration.
Note 2. 7he Controls are to be in operation on the firjl day oj
Cilcbtr next, and to continue for /our years until the 30 tk Septen- 1
ier, 1800, ineluAne. J
Note 3. lhePoft Mafler Genera! may- alter the times oj arrival a
and departure at any time during the continuance oj the Contraßs. he a
frevioujly flipi.'ating an adequate co'npcnfatim for any extra expense c
that may le occajoned thereby. )
Note 4. Fifteen minutes [hall teal/owed for opening andtlojing a
the mail at all offices where no particular time is Ipecijied. c
Note 5. Ftr- ever.'hour's delay (.unavoidable accidents excepted) f
in arriving after the times prefcribei in any contrafl, the contractor
Jball forfeit one dollar And if the delay continue until t)e depart,
ureof any depending mail, whereby the mails dcflined for such de
pending mail fluff loft a trip,' the contniSor Jhatl forfeit ten dollors I
—to be deduded from his pay. e
JOSEPH HABERSHAM, (
Pofl-Mafter General.
Gineral Post Office,
Philadelphia, Jane 28. 1796. iaw6w
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Eflate,
CALLED T IVIT TENH aM, situate irr th. *
township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 1-2 miles from Phiiad lphia, and half a mile from the ■
new Western read: containing 230 acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of the firft quality. There are
on thepreuiifesagood two story brickhoufe, with 4 room., f
en a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, ltablcs, (
and other convenient buildings; a smoke-house and stone. j
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach- '
es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately 1
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage t
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The situation is pie&fantafld healthy, and from the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
country feat. '
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman, '
ieceifed, and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis, 1
os. 9. e».] Surviving Executor. i
INFORMATION
IS given daily of the drawing of th» WASHINGTON
LOTTERY, at the Officc
No. 147 Chefnut fireit,
between Fourth and Filth ftrects. Also, where Tickets 1
may yet be bad. Aug. 5. co !
•gy The Ninth day's drawing is arrived. j
Samuel Richardet,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen'
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCH ANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia.
The Sulifcription Room will be furniihed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bof-.
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Seupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
■of French Liquors; together with the cfual refteflinisnts,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen ma; depend on being accommodated with
thechoiccft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the noli
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
' produ&ions of the Srafow.
Large and small Farties, or Cngle Gentlemen, may k
accommodated with Breahfafts, Dinners, or Sappers, at
hours mod conv nient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely fumifhed, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
£/■ S \muel Rick ARDET will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part lhall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he hat been so dUUxiguilh
jugly 'lonored. 1
PiniaJelphia, April J9. co
1 JOHN PAUL (ONES. !
XKFORMATION is licrctjy given, that % late John
Paul Tones was a proprietor of five fbares (amount
ing to about 5867 teres) in a tra.fl of laml purchaied y
the Ohio Company, in the territory of the United
of America, north-weft of the river Ohio ; and that h » 1
beiri, or legal representative, ¥ on application to the _
tors of said company, at Marietta in the territory a or?-
said. will receive a deed ®f the (aid five ftiares, or r:gnts
of land.
1 The application maybe made perfor.ally or by an agent,
but proper documents mull be produced to prove the
claimant or claimants the legal heirs or reprcfentdtive ot
v. the said Jones.
n.b. As it it not known in what country the pevion
orperfonsiutereftedrefide.it will he an ad of benevolOnce ,
in every Printer in America and Europe, who (hall rtlfert
thisadvertifcnient in his paper.
In behalf of the diredors of trie Ohio Company,
RUFUS PUTNAM.
Marietta, May 2C,17',6. [fnaej T wiyfer
To be disposed of,
THE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
has between four and five yearj to serve i She
[ can be recommended for her sobriety and .inncfty. -For t
particulars enquire at No. 132, Chefnut-ftreet.
, August 3.
Now Publtfhitig by the Printer,
At No. 3, Lattitia Court, delivering to Subscribers,.
1 and to fee hadjajphe different Book-Stores iiHhis <-ity,
J Berrimaa & Co's
CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the Old and Naw
TestaMents and the Apocrypha, With marginal notei and re
erences. An Index ;or an account df the most lemarkabic
paflagesin the old and new Testament, pointing to the placci
whercinthey happened, apd to tife places of Icripiuic where
in they are recorded. —A I able of Time.—'l able* of fctip
ture meaftires, "wcighuand coins : with an appendix,contaiiw
.ing the method of calculating its measures «f surfacis
hitherto wanting in Treatises 6n this f&bjeQ. A Table of Ojjuts
and Conditions of men.
conditions
1. Thefizeof this will be a LARGE FOLIO,
printed on a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par-
It will be published in Nambert not to ex
ceed 30, one of which will be delivered to fuhferib
ers, at aqu irter of a doHar. Those fubferibers who prefer
receiving ihe work complete, will be attended to by fignifying
the fame on any* of the fubfeription papers in ihe Bookstores
in this city.
2. There will be an advance in the price, on fubferibing
: after the firft of A uguft next.
3 In the cofcrfeof the Work will be given an elegant
• Frontifpiecc—Frsm an Engraving of the celebrated artist,
Grignion. V
' f Berrimar & Co. gratefully acknowledge the very liberal
• encouragement they have met with; and havereafon to believe
that the execution of their edition will anfwe? every expcc
• tation, and speak its owh praise.
Mav 26 3oweeM*
1 For Sale,
) A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
IN New Jersey, near the' Forks of Little Egg-Harbour.
The Grift Milii* sixty by fort) feet, two water wheels,
/ and calculated for four-ran of Stones, with screen, fans
f and bonltmg-cloths, &c. TheSav.'-Millhastwo.faws,and
e cipable of cutting five to 6 100 thousand feet of Boards per
year. A valuable piece ©f Cedar Swamp, within a mile
r and a half oi the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
of a Landing The Lumber, &c. may be taken by water
' from the mill tail.
ALSO' FOR SALE,
I Several Valuable Tracts of Land,
s In Pennfylvahia, for all of which payment XVill be receiv
ed in the notes of Messrs Morris and Nicholfon, or in
Calh.
For farther information apply to the Printer.
Ma y 17- law
University of 'Pennsylvania,
July 16, 1796,
•"THE Summer Vacation will take place on Monday next,
the iß<h inft. and continue for Four weeks.—Thediffei
'ent ScKOOII witbthe several Tutors will accordingly re
a.Tcmble on Monday, ihe 15th day of Au^uft.
Bv the Faculty, WW Rogers, Sec'v,
No. 134.
Diftrift of Pennfylvaaia, to wit.
c T)E ii Remembered that on the 23d day cf May, in the
13 twentieth vearof the Independence of the Uni , d States
J of Frakcis of the said diftrift h th
deposited in this office, the title of a book, the riiht whereof
' he claims as proprietor in ihe words fallowing tj'wit THE
DISAPPOINTMENT, or THE FORCE Or CREDULX
" TY, a new Comic Optra in three fits, by Andrew Barton,
r Elq, 2d edition revifcdandcorrefted with larre 3dditions"bv
e thea t «hor." '
" Enchanting gold ! thaf dost conspire to blind,
" Mans' erring judgment and misguide therair.d,
1 «' In search of thee, the wretched worldling goes,
e " Nor dangers fears, tho' fiends of night oppose "
s In conformity to the aft ot the Congref» of the United
States, entitled An aft for the encouragement of learning
, b v Securing the copies ofmaps.ch.rt, and book» tty'the »uth«r,'
and pioprietors of such copies during the times therein men
tioned. Samuel Calowell, Clk Dirt Penn
The above Optra witl te publifktd in the course iff two , r three
urets. ]u!v 22 .
Treasury Department, Augvjl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN purfiiancc of an a& of Congress, passed on the 18th
day of May, I 796 , entitled " A« aS providing " for
s the sale of the lands of the United States, in the Territo
ry north weft of the river Ohio, and above the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the H&ions'pr lots of land descri
bed in the annexed fchediile,lying in the fcven ranges of
townlhips, which were furveyedln pursuance of an ordi
nance of Congress, patted on the twentieth day of May
in the year one thousand fcven hundred and eighty-five
will be exposed for sale at Public vendue, in the town ot
! Pittsburgh in Pehnfylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
ie OSober next, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the firft day of December cnfuiiig.iinlefs the said lots (hall
' e he sootier fold, in the manner, ancl bn the terms and con.
ditions herein after wit :
ift. The said fedions or lots shall be fold under the dU
reflion of the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter
ritory, and Ibch person as the President of the United
•X States may specially appoint for that purpofc.
S ' , ■ ??' T he h ' d r f aions or lots ,hall be f °W to the hitrheft
bidder, but no "laic can be made for -less than two dollars
ft' ? C I aCre 0 ths l Uintlt y of land contained in such.lot or
lecli£A. » f '
■li r3' h ' ghd ?- b f dacr as before mentioned, fmift depo
sit at the time of lale,-one twentieth part of the .urn use
money, in the hand, df such person asthe Prefidert of the
„d • 4th. U,>cn paymrt-ft'ofa m.ietyof the purchase money
ad in the manher before mertiontd, the BurvhaOr 1?
er entitled to one year s credit for *
an. shall re;e:ve from the Governor or ?i '
3 d Western Territory, ana th-nerfoi who Ci 111
at by the Pref.dent ps the Uniudtat" to d iredth^f
f certiGctedefcribmgth.
e- clarmgthefum paidonaccount, the balance rcmainh, K du e "
the time whenifuch glance bccomes payable andti'
the: whole land therein mentioned, w.llV forfdted if the
tud balance u not then said . but if the tid baUnce still
he duly discharged.by paying tV.e!a r.c to die » 1 Jafiw-t 0
'he United States the purchaser or his affiance or other
n legal representative, Siall be entitled, to a patent or t c j
t .said lands, onhis producing to ths Secretary of .it ate a re-
y ceipt for such balance endorfcd upon the certificate. u
-8 if any purciafer (hall mate payment of the whole or tne wh
: s purchase money, at the time when the payment ot the un£
jfirft moiety Ss dire£led to b; ttvidr., he wijl be entitled to a j
.. deduction of ten per centum on the part for which* ere- ■
• g dit is authorized to be given ; and his patent fnall be im- J
mediately: issued. . , !
Given under my hand at Philadelphia, the day and 1
year abavt- mentioned. „__™ ,
f ' OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary »f the Treasury '
n ,
* Sc'Mute of feaions of tovnpps, or fraZwna! parts
of towjbtp, 'to 'it fold at Pinjburgh, in furfuancc
of the Gib fraion of an a 8 of Cangrcfs, p«jfed on
the lßth day of May,JJt)& _
„ s*" . • j • «; «■ »
o » s w « J2 ,5 |
O •—> V T2 li- i_i ! +->
* $ 1 " J § °< i °
r . o<2 O < ° d "
2 Z. __.fr 1
ift Range. 6thTownffiip7 6th R a:jg t>.
-ifl.Townfhip. gcia 640 each 1 ill Township.
»■ iS 565 14 649 11 7 3| 2 °
» 156 95 17*10640 each | i 3 270|
30 2st, 75 25836 640 each j2l 8,5°
34 240 90 BthTown(hip. a 166 40 /
\fsa36 640 each jai»'64°each 23 427
2d Township 17320 640 each 24 640
19 140 23 640 27 151 8e
20 170 7© 15330 64oeach 285,6 640 ?j icls
e 21 185 33*36 646 each 33 58 Ql
, i» 2 3c iothTowfiihip. 34136 640|eacli wi
25 488 !o 132)640 each 2d Fownlh/J). t h
16*17640 each 5 314 64c each i 126 he
28 560 iyaiow'ioeachi 2 440 tlc
s 29 55* 60 each: 3 448 th
'■ 30 564 i2thTownfliip.j 4 456 tr(
.31-36 640 each iai4 64c t?ach; 5 464 be
4thTownfl»p. T7a2o 64oeach! 6 472
! 19 64 238361640 each 7 340
S „ 6 ? 6 *„ ;
' 34 .45 2 ° 3. >4. a & fid
'1620 ,40 each 3 486 \
3 f £m«fhi* a3Towhl% 4 494 C
cthTowiilhip. > / c !roa
6 139 60 J 6 gio
, ?a6 640 each
il 12 479 30 J 6 jo 7ai4 640 i each
e 17 3®4 15 A ' J 1732064 each
f a<! tc 9*l* '40 each <4o|eack
«3 4jC 75 * sth Townlhip.
*4 6 45> A Zt - 1 -18
■39 £ v a >26
7 i7a2os4oeacn 3
'ti 23336 640 each! 3 534
" 8o Fov ; nfhip | 4 540 A,
s ] 3 = I *141640 each s 54
id Range. 17a20 64Cjeaeh —
iftTownfhip. 23136(640 eadh 7 a1 4 4- each
:r iS I 7120 sthTown(bip. I 7*' l ® 64°'*ch
c 34 I6J 50 iai4 64ofeach ' 3 , a^ 6 4y_*<-h T
[e 3d Township 17320 640 eachj ' 'hTownfhip.
•.i 24ax6,64ojeach 23*')6 640 each, 1
28 1499 16 7thTown(hip. | 1 "* 40
29 ,64c iai 640cach; 3 •'>' r "
3jl;3]64c|each ;iy 640 each 4 60 cl "
4thi'ownlhip 12.31.3 640 each '9 3 T . r
in 11 26J 40 ißai9 64oeach ' 0J 1,.
n 39" 5° 25 640 7*i4 640 each
J3 5 1 5® 30336 640 each T 7*^64c»ach
15 27 50 9thTownlhip. 4C i a . c ' 1
.16 459 20 1314 640le*ch ' ?*" ?'
/ 17 524 17320 64®each i*i4 64oeach
18 64c 23 336 64.o!each ' 64c,each
:l ' 19 635 uthTownftip. 2 3*3_6 640 each
20 58, 80 1 ai 4 640 each t»hTownfli.p. o|
c 21 636 21 i7a2o64oeach l*i4 64oeach
52336 64C eaeh 23336 640 each I 7 a2 * 640 each aI
sthTownfhip. i?thTou-n(hip. 2 3*36 640,eath c
5 631 iai4'6 4 oeach I 3thTownfctp, L
637 64c »aeh 17a20,640 each i* J 4 64c each 01
fs 13315 64 each 233361640 each !7 a 2c64oe*ch
th 27ar8 64c each , _ = 23*36 640 each
of 32*36 6 4 c| ach s'" !!/,nge. tjthTownlhii).
IE 7lhTown(hip, iftTownfhip. iai4|6 4 o^ach
■I- 3 1 274 '4® 17*201640 each v
"> SrhTownfhip. 21 5® 23*36 640 each °<
" 2 s " "
1 4 ° 1, 26 70 ill Town/hip.
7 * 14,640 each Z° " 10 I . ir,
17320 640 each 2 J 2 ® . |
23*36|64oeach 34 , 2dTcwnfhin I
if, jj' 30 (ditch '
I«w6ic ach 2d Township. 9 296 „
■« SSJjgit »;>"««*■ •
Jg i;aflS,otatk "
3 ,J RANQF. 5 456 19 14
2d Township. 6 464 80 20 496 .tl
th 15 640 7 25« 23*24 640 each v
or 16 600 8 61S 2 5 38c
0- 4o 557 50 9*14 64c each 2 ' J '371'M0 eich
of 2ia2« 64c each 17 a2o 64c each 4thlown(hip.
1- 23 609 23 336 64d each 1314 ®4o!ea«fh
of *5*36)640 each 4th I ownlhip. J 732C 640 each
i- 3d Township. lai4|64oeach , 3' J 36 64c|each
y. 9 138 60 17 a2c. 640 each 6th Township.
e > 344 23 ii 6164 oie ach la Mj64Qeach
ot 11 267 6thTow D fhip. 17*20 640 each
12 15a i*i4|64oleach 23*36,640 tach
•{, J 4 202 50- 17*2d]84c each Bth Township. c
' »5 630 23336 64c|each lal 4 640 each a
i6aiß 64ceach SthTownihip : I 7*»J 640 each a
[U 19 21750 xax 4 |64oieach | Z3a 3® 6 40 each i
r _ 20 61$ -75 1732064 c each i loth, °wnfhip.
,j 2133664 c each 23336|640|eac1» i 1*14640 each
4th TowiUhip. lothTownfhip! ; 17 *20 646 t ach a
:ft I 170 iai 4 l4oeacli 2 3*3 6 64c .ach
,rs 2 544 ' t7*2c each Ilth Township.
or 3 320 23336 J4deach lai 4|;'4c each a
4 4 5° !2thTownflvip. J 7a2-. >40 each (
0- 3 lie 1314 64-leac}! j 2 3 a 361 6 4: each (
ife , 6 64® 1732 c 64c each Township. ;
« 7 563 64o|each ' 1a '4| 6 40 each i
ir-. Ba9 6 4 e each i 4 thl ownfhip 640 each j
T> I: >"4 So ia'l4 li 23336 64c each 1
■ m 11 529 70 i7aac 64c each t
I2aj4 64c ach each lal 4 640 each
e ? I7*2c -ach 17*20 640 each •
JC 2 3 a 36 640 each 23*36640 each '
y : ; .. • 1
NOTE. t
»; ss^ssr.rrf
George Dobson,
l) ECS leave to inform the Store Keepers in Town and
Q Countrv, that he has removed from M<if ket*Strcet to
N°* 25, foufch Third-itreet,
r where he is opening a Large and Elegant Assortment of the
- undermentioned articles—viz.
1 Superfine London Cloths and Kerfeymcret t
Yorldhire feennd ,Do. Do.
Elastic dc. do,
Mix'd and Blue Coatings
I Flannells, See.
Manchester Printed Callicoes,
London Chintz ditto,
Blue and ditto Furnitures,
India ditto,
Long Cloths,' CoflTaes, Biffas, Co*jevreniSj
f 4*4 9" 8 5-4 & ?"4 Superfine Indin Book MuHia*,
4-4 and 9-8 India Book Handkerchief*,
e 4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
7 4-4 &6-4 plain do. Muslins,
4-4 Sc. 6-4 Bi itrfTi Jaconets,
6-4 Briti/h Checks and Stripes,
= 4-4 India do. do, do.
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, Sic.
A large aflbriment of figur'd arid plairj. Muflinets,
Quillings, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
Fancy, Waiftcoatin^s,
Ginghams of the firft Quality, fubjeft to Drawback,
India Nankeens,
Men's Whiteand coloured Silk stockings.
M »v 9
To be fold,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Gloucester, and state of New-Jersey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a Cuitable propor
tion <y which is woodland and improved meadow-. A
great part of the arable land is in a high (late of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover.
On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick heufe,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole; together with a barn, cern-cribsind carriage
houfc The garden is kfge, and'contains a ginod collec
tion of the beftkindt of grafted and inoculated fruit tree!;
theor chard consists of about three hundred grafted app'e
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premises, may
be informed ef the terms by applying to
Andrew Hunter.
Mr*9 F
On Monday next, 25thinft. (July,)
Will b? landed at South street wharf, the cargoes of Superb,
Weft Indian and Ifabclla, from Jamaica and Havanna, con»
filling of
Molasses in Hogsheads,
Coffee in hogsheads, barrels & bags,
FCR SALF. BY
PETER SLIGHT,
Who has also for sale,
A quantity of Jamaica GINGER,
Pimento & 7 t «
Cocoa, \ln Ba S^
And 15* boxes Hambro* V.'INDOW GLYSS, j by <J, will
be fold chcap.
July 20 diot & fjjth it 1 ioc
FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD,
RAN away from the fubferiber living near Church
Hill. Qu-en Anns County in the State of Maryland*
about the fir i of, Jariuary last, a black negro '.nan , named
Sam, about thirty years of age, 5 feet !j or 9 inches high T
has a?crooked finger on one hand, and one % and foot
smaller than the other, forsewhat roundfhoufdered, his
eloathing unknown. Any person v.ho wit fceure «r
brintr laid frllotr feme, sb that 1 -msygerllJWr again shall
have the above reward withreafonable charges.
WILLIAM JACOBS-
Jutfe 4. | "iawim.
Lottery and Broker's Office, ~
A' 0 64 South Second street,
TCKETS in the Canrtl Lottery No. I!, are now rea
dy for sale, a Check Book kept for the
of Tickots, and Prizes paid, without dedtt&io/i.
The Subfcribcr solicits the application of the PkßKc or
any ot his friends who wish to purch ft or fell Barjt Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange, or Notes, Hoiifss, ban*,
Lottsor of any kind, »r to obtain, Money
on deposit of property.
WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
Late J gent for the Canal Lottery Company.
Shares an i Tickets in the late Newport Long'
Wharf,2 Hotel and Public School Lottery exumined;. au
complete lift of all the prizes having been received at
this ©slice.
.• Tlirie r >-
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RAN away this morning from the Subscriber,, living
in the county of IVTonmouth, New-Jersey,. a remark
ably black Negro Man, named REN— about 40 years of
a g e > 5 * LCI: 9or 10 inches high,, llout made, bald on the
crown of his head ; hid on and took with him a grey
homespun coating coat and jacket, a brown cloth coat,
with a black collaj-, homespun tow Ihirts and trowfers,
with other Ihirts and small cloattis which cannot be enu
merated* He is a complaisant, artful and deceitful fellow.
Whoever will take up and secure »he said Runaway,.ftr
that his owner may him again, shall have the above re
ward, and reafßiiable charges paid if brought home.
Elijha Lawrance..
Tnly 18—Ayr. 1
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick Houfev
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
WIIHaLOI of GROUND thereunto belonging,,
the wfcft fide of Third-street, near Union-ftreefr
containing in front 32 feet, and in depth 100 feet#, to a»
alley leading into Union-street. Thehoufe is 32, feet front
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
large, commodious, and completely finifhed; the two firft
itories are each 13 feet high; there are zo mahogany
doorsjn the house ; a geometrical staircase, with mahega»
ny rails and a good ffcy-light. The kitchen is in the cell
ar ,1 which is spacious and convenient, and finrfhed with aa
oven, stew-holes and pantries, a servants' hall and large
■wine-ccllar adjoining the Mtchen. in front of is an
area in which there is a pump The yard
Communicating with the said building is a neat fcftzwc-ilory
brick ho*fe, on the north fide of Union-street,
ing 30 feet froht by 20 feet deepj the lower part of which
is at present occupied as a comptingrhoufe, and the upper
part divided into w«ll-finifhed large chambers. Thisboufe
may at a small expense be converted into a convenien£-
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, a*»d the froot
and back have Venetian window-shutters.
lafl. houfc. upon the lot belonging to th.2 firft, are cre&ed,
bathing-rooms, &c. There drelikewife very good coack
houfe and stables finifhed equal (or neariy so) ith any iiv
the city, cn a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, B»d
in.depth on the weft fide of said alley 5 There are
cellars under the whole of the buildings, andawirx>
_ c room over part of theftable, with over the re-.
S" ciainder. For further particulars enquire of
* EDWARD BONSaLL & Co.
ir " At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Wa.'nu: 8c
lvc .. t co Cmt*,
t»!fi month 179(3