% of the States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
. _ SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 24, 1796. {Volume X.
IyUMBEA 1 34" 0, J — - ——
For Siigo and Killibegs, F
The American Ship TSancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, matter.
Will fail with all convenient fpeei. For
freight or paflage apply to
William Bell ; cio
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflorteJ p tr '
3 Bales It ifh P.annels, and 2 boxes Linens
35 Pipes Brandy U
Madeira Wine ; Indigo. Rufiia Matts,
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK, &u s
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796) mwftf A
. FOR SALE, 5
j he snip m art, —
SAMUEL PARKER,. Master, In
hundred tons burthen. Apply to ■
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY h not fold in a few days, fee will take £h?
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Oaoher 31. atj
For Charter, M
j-T-, The Ship JOHN BULKELT,
Ayrks STOCKLty, Matter.
An excellent live-oak and cedar built
of about 3000 barrets burthen. —Ap-
Pr Je/Te & Robert W aln.
„ J M d. be
Nov. ' H
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
Samusu Pile, Matter,'
405 47-95 tars f c S ifter > , b ' u ' llt
Philadelphia in the year 1V; J > of " ve oak
& cedar, and was sheathed 13 months ago,Jie
has jull had a compleat out-fit, and m«y be lent to iea
at a very trifiins expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nick/in & Co.
Who have for sale on board said vrfel,
%1 calks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing fUttS.
I box ink stands and note prefix.
14 bales of failrfanvafs.
And on handy
Imperial - ~
Hyson, and, TEAS. {
Souchong J
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the ftrft qnahty.
19 tubs Qtiickfilvtrr.
» chelts Bandanno handkerchiefs. 11
A few chafts Manchetter goodswell aflorteJ in Cor- a
iuroys, thicksets, Muflinets, Dimiiue, &c. =
3 bo.*:es black fewingfilk.
tBo crates Qneens ware well ailortol.
10 tors sheet lead.
Nai'.s assorted, flat and ftarp points.
London Particular, ) Madeira. Wine hi pipes ,
London Market, r Jjogfheads.
New-York Market, J ,
40 pipes and 10 hogfheacU Ttnenffc wiß€«
g tierces Snake Root.
13 NoT 7 RTah ° gany ' tth&f.f i
FOR SALE, ~
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, No-rtb Second Street.
HZf I Fresh Tea,. jK"
Young Hyson, 5 l»*~
Dec.
Imported from London & Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, in crates and hpglheads, well
assorted
■ytf-'ine Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of all tizei
Two cases of stationary
■One chettof yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnctta
A fmatl eonfignment of Rose flUskets, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, i'toit.s> &c.
Paints of various colors. '
Jaiict fait in hogsheads. (
Also on band,
.Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hogsheads and
tiuarter cases
t7*Ttaod gin in p!pe'> quality
A few trunkfof ladies French shoes assorted
Utr fe k r£n,ent of Dutch
r\r tirk-'^riberKS,bed-ticks, uripes, cnecKs.
And for Tale by the b V
Thomas John Kctland.
Walnut-ttreet Wharf.
e-otf
i * i , —
" Bank of Ptrmfylvania, \s'h Dec. 1 796.
The Stockholders are requeued to meeL
At the Bank •nThurlday, the twenty-ninth inttant, at
10 o'clock in the morning.
Bv order ok the Board, .
ROBERT RALSTON, Cathie*,
Protein.
-§r*9tn —
Women's Cloaks.
I 1 ' ' (^orge"dobson,
w O . Ac, South Third-street—
Ha, just received, per Eagle, Cap,. FoSick, via I.on
idon, an assortment of
Drab" ? Cloak, trimmed with iur and
purple and f ermine.
Pearl J r
Deeember 15. ——— ~
Elesrant Brussels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, No. »J,South Third-ftreet.
, December 15.
For Sale,
Bv the Snbfcribers— In I ' EN!^" S . TRI^'
6c Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle. _ Trx . c
WILLING 6 & FRANCIS.
Yl&f
Kov, 30
Fashionable Waistcoating. I s
Choc
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25, £*<
SOUTH THIRD-STREET, FISK
Has received per the Diana, from Londin,
Clouded and firiped Spanilh Swanfdown
Clouded Er'minatt and Moleflcms D<
Striped do. and do. ~
Figured Manillas l'fe j
Scarlet figured Eriminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. Caffinets and CaiTimeres
Superfine printed Qniltings, newest patterns
Also, per different afrivali,
A large and general assortment *of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the prefenc and approaching season.
November 5.
Infuranee Company of North-America.
THF STOCKHOLDERS in this company are desired, Five
to take notice that the second Tuesday in January, (being Foui
the 10th day of the month) is the day fixed by charter for Twe
the eleaion of twenty-five Direaors for the enfaing year. Six
The ekai<jn will fee held at their office, and commence Elev
atjii o'clock, A. M. 1 w<
The fubjea >f the bye-laws of the Corporation will be Sue
submitted to their consideration *t t'lis meeting. Thr
EBENKZER HAZARD, Sec'xy Five
D«c. .1. tAI °J Ten
To be Rented,
A Large Vault ar.d Cellar,
That will contain ico pipes, fittiaM in Walnut
between Fourth and Fifth-ftreet6. Also a COACH- p
HOUSE and STABLE, with Stalls for five horl'.-s.
N. B. Goods Stored by the month.
Enquire of Benjamin W. Morris.
November 30. mwfiq j
FOR SALE, Th
" About 1,600 acres of Land, i
k a WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
1 and Beech Crocks, Mifflin comity, Pennsylvania, in
a four faparate Patents. For trrms ot sale apply lo
Win. Blackburn, sit
No. 64, South Second-ftrset.
O&ober 3*. mwftf ~
" SALTPETRE.
A larpe quantity of Double-Refined Salt Pttre for
sale at No. 25, South Third^Ureet,
November
Insurance Company of the State of
Feonfylvania.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, tha L an ele&ion
for thirteen DireAors to (or one year, wist be held
r- at the Company's Office, yn Monday tlwjth January next,
c. at II -o'clock.—And p-'re-ibiy t<y the aif of incorporation
a flatement of the sliairs of the company, will then be
laid before them.
SAMUEL W. FISHER, Scc'y.
Philadelphia, Dscf in'ner 19, ,1796. d 5 9th Jar.
— — ) ———■ ' '
* Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike
Road Company. —
A Meeting of the Stockholders for the Ele&ion of
a Prefideut, Managers, and other officer., will be
:f held at the Company's office 011 Monday the 9th Jan.
— next, at 10 o'clock. V
By the Bosrd. —
WM. GOVETT.Sec'ry, ol
L, December S, 1 lawtiftj.dtg h p.
Imported h thr late arrh ih ftsm Europe »:id th- ,
IVejf-Indies, tl
Holland Gin, in pipes
1_ Choice St. Croix Sugar and Hum
Martinique Molasses, in hojfheatU
Choice old Eifoon Wine, m pipes and quartcr-c;.fcs
' e London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
*m pipes, half-nio« and cjuarter-caiks
Malrnfey Madeira VViue, in pipes and quarter-caCts t
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes f
Raffia & Flesnlih Shaetinjf and Ravens Du.-k, :n cases j
Window Glll's, 3 by 10. in boxes
Cofte Mills and Straw Kmvei, in caflts
' Mill Saws and Crois-cot Saws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
\ few ch*ft« of Bohea Tea ; Jefiiits Bark : Aflsfca
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of CofTaes, j '
Baftas, Gorrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handkrr- | (
and and a complete assortment of 5-4 and 6-4 ,
Bjulting Sloths. ,
For Sale by
Pragers Elf Co.
OSober 10 dn'm&thm
:* f THE STOCKHOLDERS
&c. ' of the Bank of the United States
Are hereby informed,
THAT, according to the Statute of Incorporation, t
General Kleftion for Twenty-Five Dihf.ctors will be
held at the Baak of the United State, in the City of
Philadelphia, on Monday the fceond day of January
). next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
j. And, purfuast to the eleventh fe&ion of the Bye Law*,
the Stockholders of the laid Bank are herehy notified to
lt ' at assemble a General Meeting, at th* fame place, on Tnef
day the third day of January next, at siva o'clock in the
evening-.
By order of the Board of Directors.
tern- G. SIMPSON, Caftier.
tnd Fundamental Article.
Not more than throe fourths of the Direaors in office
exclusive of the Prcfident, ft all be eligible for the next
fncceeding year, but the Direaor who lha.ll be PrefidoDt
at the time'of an eleaion may always be re-eleaed.
I.on- cftel.
" TO IStI'OLD, "
1 * p LANTAION, of Woodbury, co»n
j\ ty of Gloueefter, and ftateof New-Jersey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty aercs ; a (uitable propor
tion 01 which is woodland and improved meadow. A
great part of the arable land is in a high state of cultiva
incr, tion, and very natural to the produAion of Red
lr «t On fnid plantation there is a genteel two-story brick hosfe,
f * with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
■ the whole; together witk a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
houfe Vhe garden is large, and contains a good collec
tion of the best kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees;
the orchardconfifts of about three hundred gratted app <-
ie, tree-. Any person inclined to purchase f'aid premius, may
he informed «f the terms by applying to
IS _ . ANDREW HUNTER.
. <St'f July 29 F
New-England Rum, Salmon, Beef,
Chocolate, Rice, Boston mould and dipt Candies, a J]
fe>r quarter-cases of Sherry Wine, it few barrels of
Cyder, and a few quintals of excellent Tible COD-
FlSH—for sale by
EzekiH Hall,
No. 4i, North Water-ttreet.
December 14th, Ditti
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flower-Seeds, j?.'T
T~> es co *me
Roots, ofC. <&C. Nov;
This day landing from the ship B)agle, captain Fofdiek,
from Lortdoa, D>
And FOR SALE by —
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE, A
Corner of Walnut and Second-streets, t j le j
A moji capita! and txtenjive Assortment of Ndrt
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS, P Ucc
ROOTS, &c.
Air.ong which arc, build
Fire kinds /.fparagus Three kinds CrelTes
Four Berecole Twelve Oniou
Twenty-five Bean, Thirteen Radish .
. Six Beets fifteen Tttrsip
: Eleven Brocoli Fifteen I'eas
Twenty-fa Cabbage Six Savoy y ,
1 Six Carret Four Parfnin -j.
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon gn(
Five Celery Twer.fy-one Lettnce
Tea Cucumber
Common and lemon Thyme
• Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot Marygoid tot Marjoruai
Balm Thyme Mangel Wurtzel
_ Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seei Rye Grass Saint Foin Lucerne
Red and white Clover' Timothy, &c. &c. Oil
With a curious collection of the'moft eftecmed
I'LOWER-SEEDS and ROOFS,
«• Being she mod exter.Cve ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman ill Londen, and
are warranted freih and good. / r
Printed jatalogues may be had by applying m above. •'
1, Dec. <7. r ' tf - pS j
° Just Landings \
At South flreel wkatf, from ctt hard tie ship Sredg- j
leyy Captain Hedge, from St. Petersburg,
The following Goods: !
Ru3Sa Sail Deck, firft quality. i
Do. .Sheeting da. ]
Do, Diaper.
or Do. Huckaback.
Do. Craih.
Do. Mould Candles, 4. 5 *nd &,!> of the _
F.nglilh fije
r Do. White handle Tallow.
Do- Wliite So„t> in small boxes. 1
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
>n Ravens Duck. di:
Id iGnglaf*. i-l and and fort. p t
tt, Horse Hair uncurkd. . tr .
an Ruflia Bar Iron.
be Do. Kooplrun.
P. 0., ft-ods. ■
is Tons QiVum and Junk. '
CUso »»! I
I For iiait by
_ c Philips, Cramond, & Ce.
n "Afr T 7 ? d ;
of A Short Delay A
be In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery, a !
in. I n V' Afhington city, has been unavoidably occafion«d „
by the unUirefeen intervention of Mr. Ulodgst's I ottfiy e |
—but the major rait of the tickets are now difpofrd j-.
'of, this i: to inform the ppblic the drawing ()T the Ca- .j
nr.! Lottery will certainly commence without fail, on the
~ firll Monday in January tj§7, and those hojding tickets,
hereby requeued to lend a featcnaent of those fold, anc
those on ibnd.
NOTLY VOUKO, ;
DANfpX C \RROI-L, of Duddington, 1
GEORGE WAXKtR,
. THOMAS LAW,
:fi:s JAMES BARRY,
«'> W. M. DUNCANSON.
pin Printers who gave our advertisements a place in
9 their newspapers, are requested to give this notice aiimif-
Eon.as the remaning tickets are expcifted to be soon above
afes , ar , an J vc wiSi adventurers to be timely informed
jM»v, x%. . 6w -
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
so»- GEORGE DAVIS announces to his prolcfiior.al friends, '
• acSl and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the f
u-. ! Union, that hii late importation of BOOKS is now arrang- |
. " j cd, and ready tor Sale, from a single volume to an entire h
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which for ieveral years past have in so diltinguifhed a
manner recommended them to noticc.
Printed Catalogues combining the mod exteßlive collcc.
tion cf the latettEnglilh and lrilb Editions ever imported
into this country, are publithed, and will be delivered giam
on application.
Orders addressed to G. D. in writing from any distance
5 (hall be punctually attendrd to.
A number of TRTJNKS for Sale. \
ALSO, TO BE LET,
in ' * A convenient LOFT, near Market Street Wbfrf.
II - be ov g tu&fsw
y 0 f : —* —*
' For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER Ssf Co.
-,' 1 ll An Invoice of Cordage,
1 "he ConGfting of different sizes, from 12 ir.ch cables down
to rope «f 1 frichcfi, of different lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
er . Sept. ly.
office 0/J London particular Madeira Wine,
nfYt Landinc from on board the barque Eagle, Capt. E^ttes,
Rdent 'ttd for iale by ROBERT ANDREWS,
1 No. 36, S®uth Wharve®.
November 19. cocks
Cheap French China.
coun- THE fubferibers finding it impoflibleto fnpply their
ntam " store with any more China from Prance, the prices
°1 °T being too immoderate in the manufactories, give no-
Htiva- tice that the y will fcll at F' M ' e cost 11115 Kr " jinia S
lover" fteck on hand ' ««tfiaing of
honfe? D'lfert Setts,
under Tea-Table Setts
ria K e- Separate Cups and Saucers
:ollec Groupes and Figures
trees; Alabaster Vases
app e- Looking GlafTes, in gilt frames, _
6, may Befidts India Japan'd Toilet Desks, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Qoxeii. PASQUJF.R & Co.
R. ' Ne. 91, South Seeond-ftrett.
December jth. " s
For Sale,
By George Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels acd kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or Tingle one
Dry CedfiOi, from oae 10 fifty kentals
Fine and eoarfe Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the (ton©
and ground, for manure and ftucco-woik
December i. _
For Sale,
A capital Hand for buffnefs— I'hat well known tavern,
the Ewe and Lambs, North Front Street, No. 333, in the
Northern Libertiss; a brick houfc containing nine firo
1 places, and ten rooms well fintfhed ; good stables and
chair-houfc, with a lxamc-houfe oh W.ater street ; the
building (lands on four lots, teaKnteen feet front ench, ma
king a front on front-ftreet, thirty four feet, and nearly
' the fame on Water-street, and is one hundred and forty
1 f«t deep from flreet to ftrcct, fubjsd to £». 10s. each
I lot per annum, ground rent, this property h near the hay
' scales, and public ri»cks, easy communication with the
5 Delaware waters and advantageously situated for bufmefs
of various kinds.
n The above prtmifes are now rented until December
II neit at £.l'S p£r annum.—Enquire of tae Printer.
e Dee it. , §iw2.aw6w. _
Wm. Holdeßnesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received-by the late arrivals,
A IVell Stleded Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
HaberdaChery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholefate and retail, an the verjr
I{l lowest terms ;
Amongji ivbich are
.Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
— Ditto Fnrniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslin*
?" Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Nockcloths, very fine
Mantuas of -the f.rft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, aHorted
lrifii I.inens, very fine, awl Table Linens
Marfcilles and" Cotton Couttterpines
Rose Blankets alforte*—&c. &c.
October a 6.
:he ' ■
CAUTION.
WHEREAS very Urge and heavy deli to are juftty
due and owing front rnvfirs. Blair M'Clenaehnn atfd
Patrick Moo/\\ of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
trading under the firm of Blair M'Gleriarkan and I'.
Moore, and from Blair M'Clntueban in his separate
capacity ; to whieli, by the laws of the land, a-»* the
joint »3 well as separate property of the laid Gen'le
men, is, and ought to be, litble. And whereia
it is clearly and- fattsfU&orily ascertained, that mr.
Blair APClentuban, of the fiiid firm, Has conveyed
. away to snr. Jcbn Ji. Hujlon, his fon-inlaw, ttt his
L_ daughter, iaif« M'Clmackan, and to his foil, George
M'Clenachan, fevcral large and valuable real estates,
as veil as coufidcrable personal property, in the city
* and county of Philadelphia-, in the county of Laucaf
l,td ter, in the county of New-Castle on Delaware, and
«»y elsewhere, with a'view, as it is apprehended, to de
lf,d feat the Greditons in the reccveny of their jtift debts.—»
Ca " This is, therefore, to forewarn all perform whamfo
,hc -ever, against the purehafe from the f«id grsnt-ees, or
either of them, of-any portion of the said real orper
*nc fonal property, as tlie most vigorous measures will
without delay be taken te render the fame liable to
the just demands of the Creditors.
By order ef the Creditors.
7*koma: Pitvflmwr, "J
» Philip Ntckllx, I
I/aac Vharton, r Committee.
fin William M'Murtrie, \
mis- Samuel IV. Fi/her,
jove Philadelphia, December 17th, l?§6. icth.J f
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the public prints,
rnds, warnirrg all persons agaisft purchasing from the
1 the grantees ?f Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
™V?' l sr g f ■ real snd P ei f° nal estates he conveyed away to
r U his fon-in law and t» hi» children was the result of
tied a a deliberation had upon the fubjedt by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
ortei M'Clenachan and P. Moore a* of Blair M'Clena
g'atit chan individually. It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust confided in the fubferibers by
ftjnct those creditors: a step which it would bave been a
s breach of duty and honor in them to have omitted.
The very ftatcment of the fa& therefore mud dis
pel the imputation that it was eithfcr " precipitate
. or viadidlive." It eriginated in a desire to secure
the property of the debtor as a fund for the p*y
r ment of his just debts. It was fanflioned by the
advice ot council as a measure ntcejary to the fafety
of the creditors. If the advertilement has been
down injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
ed in j 0 y s own unjuftiliable conduct, not to the iub«
If' fctibers who have merely publi(h«d the trutli in
terms as mild as the fadt would admit, and whe
ine y mean to investigate in a'high court of justice the
Eittes. validity of thole purchases ef whieh Mt. M'Cle
nachan so confidently fpeakl.
'• The fubferibers therefore are bound by a sense
of doty to the creditors in general to repeat their
caution against purahafing of those grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it to a
' their purchase from any other persons (if such there be)
pnCeS . to whom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made fimtlar
" nmg rSES T. FITZSIMONS,
1 S P. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W. FISHER.
Philad. Dec. ai, 1796.
Oj*'" 53" Those printers who have been reqnefted to
;ett! v publifb the firft Caution, are defred to publifb thi»
tts alfa-New Theatre.
THIS EVENING, December *4,
Will be presented,
a Comedy, called
She Stoops to Conquer;
Or, The Mistakes of a Night.
Sir Charles Marlow, Mr. Warrell
Young Marlow, Mr. Moreton
Hardcaftle, Mr. Morris
Ha (lings, Mr. Fox
Tony Lumpkin, Mr. Wignell
Diggory, Mr. Francis
Landlord, Mr. Varley
Jeremy, Mr. Blijfctt
Mrs. Hardcaftle, Mrs. L'Eflrang:
Miss Hardcale, Mrs. Morris
Miss Neville, Mrs. Francis
Maid, Mrs. Meehtler
After which will he performed by the Freneh compa
ny, (being thfir second appearaace,) a celebrated
CPEKA in two arts, called
Les Mordores.
The music by monf. Fridzery.
Le Baron de Recourt, IS. Bottekoni.
Sr» Sock, M. Viellard.
Michel, M. St. Mare.
Hans, M. Po'tgnand
Le Brigadier, M. Lavencr
Odile, Mile- Tejeire
On Monday Romeo and Juliet, with entertain
ments.
On Tuefdiy George Barnwell, with Harlequin's
Invasion.
Box, OneDoTlar twenty-five cents. Pit one Dollar,
And Gallery, half a dollar.
Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's iook-ftore,
Ko. 50 High-Areet, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
Places for the Boxes to be taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till 4 o'clock, and from
10 till 4 on the days of performance.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and
to order them, as fson asHhe company are seated,. to
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
riVAT RESPUBLICA!
FOUND
Yesterday afternoon, ia Second, between Arch and
Race-streets,
A small sum of money ; whoever has loft the fame,
may have it by proving their property, and paying for
this advertisement.—Apply to the Printer.
Dec. a 3. « 3t .
FOUND,
By a Gentleman, a SUM of MONEY.
The owner may have it by applying at the Indian
Dec. 21. *j
WANTED,
A MUSICIAN,
Who is capable of composing Accompaniments to
Songs for an Orchestra. He must have no ether en
gagement as a composer. Enquire at the Office of this
Paper.
December ja.
Clocks and Watches. ,
LESLIE and PRICE, '
No. 79, Market street, Philadelphia, !
HAVE IMPORI ED, by the late arrivals from
London, a large aflbrtment »f WARRANT E D 1
WA i CUES, confuting of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watches, with fecoitds, of superior
workmanfhtp and elegance ; also capp'd and jewel'd C
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd & jewell'd, capp'd, <
seconds, day of the month, and plain Silver Watches ;
eight day & chamber Clocks; elegant French Clocks *
with marble frames ; eight day and thirty hour, brass
Works, &c.
December 22, 1796. d 2m
Just Arrived,
Per fchooncr Daphne, Captain Morse, from Aim-
Cayes, "
A Cargo of Sugar and Coffee. u
Aljo, per, brig Betsey, Captait. White, from the IJle at
of France,
72 Hogsheads, 1 puncheon, and 25 caniflers, of
Batavia Sugar
45 Hog(heads Pepper of Malabar
65,000 lb. Coffee
s.veoo Cotton
4>ooo indigo For Sale by "
F. Coppinger, Jim
*.o. las* South Front-street
December ai j wl
This Day is Publilhed,
Porcupine's ™
POLITICAL CENSOR,
For NOVEMBER, 1796.
CONTAINING Wi
OBSERVATIONS cei
On the Insolent and Seditious Notes, Nc
(Attacking the sovereignty and independence of the
United States) D
Communicated to the People, by the late French 1
minister, ADET,
December 21. » T a,i<
■ ■ ■» " Cul
On Wednelday, the 28th inlt. Fai
At 4 o'clock in the evening, will be fold at public a "'
auction, (if not before disposed of at private sale) '
at the City-Tavein, <1»J
All that capital mansion-house, (tables, oHt-houfes &c ti "
a«tl threi* contiguous trails «f land situate on the Weft-fide f ° r
of Schuylkill i« the township of Blockley and county of 1
Ph: ladelphia, generally known by the name ofLanfdown and
containing 199 acres lei perches more or less and a melTu- *
age plantation and trxft of land in Blockley township a- P
forefa d adjoining l.anfdown, containing 64 acres one
perch.
The premises are so well known as to need no particular Wl
defcnption. Few fear, i n America can compare wi-h
Lanfdown for convenience and elegance; it commands a
vanety of rich beautiful profpefls and is remarkably heal- A
thy. Terms .Hale will be made known bv that
P " IU Ln ICKUN| ? Attornies in cd 1
ROBERT /. GR.FFITH, 5 Jam« o^E
D «- "■ StaStfc N«T
COLLEGE-HALL.
Readings and Recitations,
» '
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining.
Mr. F E N N E L L
_ „ Refpeafjlly informs the Public, that
• TUESDAY EVENING, December 17, at seven
' o'clock, will be delivered
An Explanatory Address.
After which will be recited an Allegorical Poem, in
three parts, called
The CAy E of NATURE;
Or, A Picture of the Virtues, Views, and Paflions,
of the Human Mind.
Orcafional admission tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfen,
Jun. at the Library; at vlr. M'i'lvec's looking-glass-store,
No. 70, Sotirh Fourth-ftrcet; and at Mr. Carey's, Book
seller, Market-llreet.
December 24
A few hogsheads of choice N. E. Rum,
and a quantity of LARD, forfalej
impa- Enquire at No. 71, North Water-street. .
irated December 24 j IW
THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone House, No. 41, South Secend-Jlrtct,
Philadelphia,
HAS FOR SALS,
A large and very general aflortment of
STATIONARY
Drawing and Writing Best and fcoond Swan Quills
Papers. Black and red Ink Powder
Antiquarian Ditto Liquid Ink
rUin- Doable Elephant Penknives
•Atlas, Desk knives
uin's Elephant Superfine red and black Seal-
Imperial iug wax,
Super Royal Belt vsrmilion and coloured
ollar. R oyal wafers
Medium, Large and small office wa
lore, Demy v lers
; the ££j ck Red tape broad, middling is.
1 hin ditto narrow
1 the tto Elailic gum, in bbttlcs or
from h,ck Post Le^ tcr P iccc *
Ditto plain Pounce
the 5- tto Ivory pounce boxes
Ditto lined Cocoa and bone ditto
their Po . ft Iv ory paper-knives
and Pi" 0 gUt Black sand
™ Mourning iand box« 8, japanned
mit ? Ite ? Pr lined Lignumvitze and common
Our.ter's scales
Small Post cap fire Brass dividers
I ■ Best English and American Leaden preffers
Foolscap, various qualities Black l*ad pencils
Superfine Pot hiding ditto
. Second ditto Japanned card racks
ana Blossom and grey Blotting Writing parchment
Faper Ditto vellum
ime, Wrapping paper Morocco writing delkj '
j for Letter files and laces Spanish tambour ditto
Paper cufes, various fires An elegant variety of ebony '
'• Bonnet past-boards ink ftandifhes 1
, Large, middling and small <
Merchants Account Books, pewter ink ftandifhes ,
. , viz, Larj;e, middling and small .
Ledgers, Angle or double, counting-houle ink-pots
nan ruled for 1. s. d. or dolls. An elegant aflortment of 1
4 & cents, ot Imperial or Su- ehryUal and wedgewood <
per Royal, with or with- philofophicat ink-pots 1
out croi's lines Ink-glatfes various sizes
Journals, Day Books, In- Leather & paper ink-piocet 1
tto volee 800k ®' Account cur- for the pocket
re nt Books, Sales Books, Small gilt-vifitingcaris c
this Letter Books, andPecord Blank meffagi-cards, large t
Books, of Impsrial, Su- and small, gilt and p'ain (
per-royal, Royal, Medi-Boxes of marking-types for t
_ um, Demy or Foolscap, linen.
cross ruled or plain. c
Receipt Books Bills of lading,large & small 1
Bank Books Bills of exchange K
Memorandum Books Elegant copperplate ditto
Bill of Lading Books Cultom-houfe entries
Bill Books, payable and re- Manifefts
'n „ c <jiv a t,k Seamen's articles 1
~ Bank-Check Books, of vari- Blank bonds 1
nd ous sizes and for different Judgment bonds a
!?1 /-. Judgment bills a
I d Cyphering and Copy Books Mortgages
'd, Common place Books Arbitration bonds r
' ■ _ „ Apprentice's indentures '
ks Best Dutch Quills, No. I, a, Powers of attorney ''
ass 3> 4 and 5 [Bank checks, &c. &c. &c.
December 17.
- Delaware and Schuylkill Canal a
— P
"The Stockholders are hereby notified, that the an- w
nual Eleilion for Officers for the enl'uing year, wiil lr
be held at the Company's office, near the Bank of the 'r
United States, on the firfl Monday in January next, v<
<lc at 10 o'clock, a. m. / •
By the Board of Managers.
of m.-i ~, - - WM - MOORE SMITH, Sec'ry. J*
Philadelphia, Dec. 1, 179 6. foeStlD hl
Washington Lottery. £
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or ft
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. ,47, Chefaut
peet, where a corred Numerical Book is kept for public
mfpe&ion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex- a
rt changed for prizes di awn in the Walhingtoo Lottery of to
_W li 461,1 and 47th days returns axe received. ' nil
Cr The Business of a Broker carried on as usual. hi,
, A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fold n
on rtafonahle terms. ttstf
Dancing I CX
MR. FRANCIS of the New-Theatre, in conjunction
with Mr. B\ RN, late Ballet-master, and principal dan- un
cer of Covcnt-Garden Theatre, London, now of the fp:
New Theatre in this city, opened their Academy at Mr. , n
Oeilers Hotel on Tuesday, December 13, where thsy f nr
propose to teach, in the mott new and approved methods- ,
Dancing m its various uleful and ornamental branches'
jI" reccnt attention to the dances of London ,ll<
and Paris will enible him to complete this branch of P»
. education in his scholars in the most finilhed flvle.
Favsrite Scotch reels will also engage their particular C ot
, attention.
| The days of teaching for their young pupils are Thurs
days and Saturdays, from three o'clock in the afternoon as
• f 00 Thursdays, from fix till nine, ti,u
lor thole of a more advanced age. a b
Fpr farther particulars enquire of Messrs. Fraoais Drf
, and Byrn, No. 70, north Eighth-street. Pi
** Private tuiiien as usual.
Philadelphia, December 16, 1796. oaw 6 cn
a * nd
Any Person ed i
Whs is well acquainted -with the River WOl
MISSISI P P I, a d<
And will give Dire&ions for failing into the fame j'"!
that can be depended on, (hall be gc-naroufly reward
ed tor his information, provided he will I ca ve the "" g
directions with Mr. John Febno, printer, Philadelphia tlon
or Edmund M. Bl«i.t, Newburyiort. P * b
nvam quel
— .x ~ — - ■-«
CONGRESS OF rat UNITED STATES.
» —
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES*
Conclusion oj th: debate on the address in anfv/er
j- evcc to the Prtfident's speech.
Thursday, December 15-
Mr. Sitgreave, said he wished to propose an a
mendment in the fourth fc&ion of the address. It
[Eons, had been thought that the committee bad not ex
pressed with fufficient strength the desire of the
. house to preserve harmony with the French repub
-ftore' '' C * an arn£n dnAent had accorJingly been agreed
Book- ,0 » to cncreafe the force of the pafiage. For his
own part, hefaid, he had no objection to the use
of themoft emphaiical cxpieffions of desire to pre
serve peace with that country ; but he thought
um, there was a sentiment which it was equally import
ant to have expressed as unequivocally, and in al
strong terms, viz. that it, from any unfavorable
Iw circumstances, the harmony heretofore subsisting
betwixt this country and the French republic, should
be interrupted, that'the people of this country are
Qrctt, determined to aflert themfelve, again ft all aggres
sions, ihe resolution to assert onrfclvcs in this
way, ought alwaya, he said, to be in as llroiig
tof as the desire for peace. This determination,
it was true, was already cxpiefled in the anfwe-r ;
hut finee the amendment had been made, it was
s aot fufficiently Itrong.
Mr. S. supposed that the abftraA importanee &
propriety of this would be evident, in order to
aid any negociation which the executive might un-
Sea - dertake ; but he was led to give additional weight
rarei l ° hi ' ar S Ulßent what had fallen from the
gentleman who brought forward the amendment to
wa- 'his clause. They had been tol<3, that whatever
ignorance might be- pretended, that all the griev
& ances complained of by the French government re
, or felved 'hcmfclvcs into a diflatisfadion of the British I
treaty , that this had been the cause of a suspension :
of of their minuter, of the orders far '
capturing of our yeflels, &c. and that these will j
con'tinue until they receive fatisfadlion. If this '
was ically the cafe, he, for his part, did not expect
a favorable issue to the nepociation. He should
mon hope it would not terminate in peace. If harmony
could not be preserved, except we abandon the
contrast which we have made with Great-Britain,
he trusted the termination would not be an aban
donment of our honor and of our rights.
A» there had been attempts made, Mr. S. observ
ed, todiawa line between the government of this
country and the people, artfully insinuating that the
acts of government were not in unison with the
any voice of the people, he wifked it unequivocally to
appear to the world, that whatever differences of
mil opinion there might be in th t house, in one fenti
-U ment ' at least, all were united, viz. in opposing
" t ? s ,llc a £grefiion« of any country. That this fenti
of ment of asserting our rights, should be expressed ;
ood "it' l firmaefs, but moderation, was essential to the
peace and honor of our country. I
Mr. S. therefore moved to strike out the words ,
,c " from «« while" to «« countryman," towards the ,
conclusion of the paragraph, and to insert, ,' at ,
rge the fame time that we aflureourfdves that your just .
in confidsnce in the pattiotifm, felf.refpedl and foiti- ,
for tude of our countrymen, will not in any event be (
disappointed, and that they will not on'any occa- <
tall f,on tor g et what •» to the character and govern. ,
ment of our nation."
Before he laid this amendment on the table, he i
would observe, in, confirmation of what had been c
ftaied by the gentleman from Maffachufett, (Mr. L
Ames) that the answer leported was the result of ,
aceommujation aud compr«iraife ; but, as addition- f
al emphafi, had been given to the defiie of harmo- -
iiy and peace, he was desirous that a Jike additional
force should be given to the other part of the fen
tencc.
Mr. Nicholas said the proportion of the gentle- v
— man j"' l fat down went to the pledging 8
at all events to support the executive in the dif- o
pute with the French government. He was not
willing- to do this. He had purposely .voidedfay- a
•iil ing any thing in this debate on the difpure subsist- )i
he ing betwixt this country and France. He was c- ei
ct, ven iilent when he heard an insinuation made that OI
the mifunderflandiag between the two countries
was fomented by American citizens in Paris. He si
had meant, indeed, at feme future time, to have
- called upon the gentleman who made this assertion
for information, as he certainly knew the circum
>r fiance, of which he spoke ft, confidently, to be
ic "r C ;. " e confill « re d the dispute with France, 'a, , D
t- a [ ub J e « n °t yet ripe f or dif.uffion. They were t
Df told by the Prelideut that he reserved hi, commu- ,'h
mcatlon on this fubjed* to a future period For f
hi, part, he had never yet .ead the French mini ft"
fter . note having been but a few da ; ,in ,hc city, u
it had not fallen m his way. He l.ad no doubt ihc he
executive would fettle the buhnefs amicably with h
n the Fiench republic ; but he should think iiimfelf m
unpardonable to pledge himfelf to any thing re- ™
,e fpcdling it at present. He tuonght the proceedinir
r. an extraordinary one; he believed however the Z
X form, of the house admitted of a remedy for a bu- j n
.. f ' nef ' of th " k,l,d > a t»» : « was by clllintr for F
, the previous queftioa. He therefore moved the If
f previous qucftion.
Mr. Hartley said he was not present when the U
" communication of the President was received ; but m«
he thought they were not called upon to g„ so f, r 1,
'Z L 1 of hi, colleague proposed. He c l a
'Tr V / a ! d bf < areful , '°* they went into of
a business of tlus k.nd, The fubjed was not at L
present npe. The President was at this time oro
bably fettling the matter amiiably. He hoped the def
gentleman would therefore withdraw his motion intl
and „ot force .t upon the house. When .here feenv b c
ed to be a dilpofmon of unanimity, he hoped it hea
wou d not be dil urbed by this motion. They had |
a dehcare part, he said ,0 afl. The world was M,
armed at all point,, and we were not. If war was n '
declared against France, he should wish that it
m.ght be done unanimously. He hoped the rao . nr
tion v/oul j be withdrawn.
qU eW 00 sal
v/ 01
*SS? Mr. Sitgreaver. said he was sorry that Lis rtlotiorl
had created in the mind of his colleague any thing
like alarm. In the fame breath in which he had
emphatically declared that he concurred in i : .e
wi(h to cultivate peace and harmony with tin;
ifwer French Republic, that gentleman came forward
' and said if war wai declared he hoped it would fie
done unanimously. He had ft*'ed they had no
information on the fubjeff. Was there anything
in this resolution, he asked, which required infoi.
ma- mation. It was stated by the President that dif-
I. It fereneeshad arifea which he regretted. He alio
t ex- slated it to be his wish tc cultivate peace and h r
f the iHony with the French Republic; but he (late*
:pub- that, in pursuing this, he (hall not forget what ia
greed due to the chara&et and government of our na
r his tion.
e use The amendment he had proposed conveyed no
pre- o'her fentimeut, and ought by all means to be com
ught nedted with the earned wish expressed for peace,
port- There was nothing about declaring war or wish«
in al i"g for war, but that we (hould in any *vent not
rable forget what was due to our national character. \
sting There was nothing offenfive or irritating agairrt J
lould the French Nation, or any other nation in this,
y are Any feutinieat of this kind must arise fiom the
gref- gentleman's own feeling, and not from his propo.
this fition. He was glad the yeas and nays had
ro*g called for ; if they had not been called, he himfelf
tion, wouU had made the motion.
ver ; In answer to the gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
was Nicholas) hi would just fay,'that this houle, or
this country were not pledged, this resolution,
e & to do any thing which we ought not to do.
rto Mr. Claiborne hoped the motion of the gentle
un- fan from Pennfyivania would not be put,' as it
ight carried with it an afpe£t, and he vviihed by
the a" means to preserve peace with the French Re
it to public.
ever The Speaker reminded the house that the pre
•iev- viousqueltion had been callcd for and that gentle
t re- men must confine their observations te that object.
itifh , Mr. W. Smith said gentlemen might as well
lion | be muzzled, if they were not permitted to speak
; their fentiraents.
W'jl j The Speaker infilled upon the gentleman con
this ( fcning hi in felt to order.
? c & Mr. W. Smith said herofetogive his reafona
' in favour of adopting the propoied amendment,
°"y and against the previous queliioni
seemed to think that at some time it might be
am, proper to enter into such a resolution, tut not
ian- novv , He conceived that this was the proper
time, and would give his reasons for that opinion
«»- — because it refpeAs the fubjed before' tbero, the
this j answer to the Prefident'* addiefs, and because
the | fomethtHg of the kind seemed to be called for, to
the i declare that we did not depend entirely on the juf
rto j tice and moderation of the French Nation j that
or I we were determined to i'upport cur Executive ia
["'* maintaining the dignity of our country, and that
">g | we were not so alarmed by the note of their Mini
nti ; fter, as to throw ourselves upon the mercy of that 4
| nation.
l " c Gentlemen said they had no information on the
fubjeft. He alked thtm whether the French Mi
r. nllte ( r had not appealed to the people of the Uni
t*e ted b'.ates ? And whether it was not proper for
at them to speak on this occafioa ? He Hates that his,
. nation is offended with ours, and that the meal'mW
ti- which that Government has taken will continue Hn
be till our Government returns to hfelf by a i nnate
Ci " ofesniua. In his opinion, Mr. Smith said, 'this
rn " w " the proper time lor thole gentlemen who con
cetved that government had maintained fts neutral,
e it/ with wiidom and Hrmnrfs, to come forward and
■5" declare it ;to fay to the executive it might depend f
r - upon that house for fupp-m. There was no threat
-0 n 'ng, he said in this. The threat did not come
J " from us ;it came from the French Government.
I he French Mimftei had laid great stress upon the
treaty with Great Britain, which he conliders as a
:,i " violation of reutraliry, and a just cause of offenee.
If this idea was pursued, he laid we must b«ve war
|«. with one nation or the other. Would not, then,
'es gentlemen fay to the Executive you inay rely ' up
if. on uj.
r,t Mr. Smith said he had made these obfervationg
y. and had endeavoured to cotih e himfelf within the 1
ft. line of order (about which he had been hampered)
f. endeavouring to Huwthat the motion of his friend
at ought to be agreed to.
es The fpeakei read the rule of the hoßfe on the
le fubjeft ot order.
Mr. Hartley said that he wiflied to withdraw hit
oppofiuan. He now saw the neceflity of the mo
" lion of his colleague, and should support it.
5c Mr. Harper conceived it to be ftriaiy in order
" ;° " le " that the propoM declaration was proper to
'« be puffed at this time. If he had a right idea of
1 the previous queflion, it could not have an effcA to
'. r dt bate. He ft lo uld therefore, go on to
' "ate ore or two thing, whi.h he thought impor-
Y, taut, and he would begin by declaring, that it he
>e believed the resolution went to the oledgioy the x
' house to any particular measures they hereafter
might fee reason to disapprove, he would not only
•- vote for the previous queflion, but ag.inft the mo.
UO " i!to gether. If he underfrood the motion, it
WCm no ,u » her to fay, « we join you in wish
" mg to prefeive the nio |i f.ncere amity with the
e J r -" C^ re ?: b ' ,C ! but if ail 'o attain it fail ;
it (hou.d happen, that notwithftandinp alhthe #
e MH ,IOI, M V PeiC 7 " nnot be P rcfervfJ ' vve shall (
e hold ouifelves bound to support yoii.'* If p'entll. '■
men examined the amendment, they wo.'d find it
eoßtaine# no more than this. If this w. s the de."
caration, he would ask (a number desired to to w
cL t PC;, v e . r j Whai ' er Ml - in order. Th«
• Jendem/ CP " , iD> P ofiible
• Hr j if- mea '" t0 a ''P y wl,at hiid laid. He
? ed him to go on) Mr. Harper said it vas' '5
; -ntenuoH to Jew that the main 'question ou"
betaken, and appealed to the feeiings of every
I ? C honourable feelings of patriotiir
vhich diflingnifhed American c4,r/whether
'l' l * was an improper declaration ?If it were im, A
F°^ r ' U , d . niifconceived their duiv
He should thick it lbe dccpe(i d|f . racf tQ b . g u t I
ine$ mo And f feel.
fafd 't! u s " nnmcnt was honourable, he
woLld I CoUia not bc i" which it
would be improper i 0 exp lc f, i t .Mr. H. faij, if he believed all that had been fat«f
! ° Ul "'"ahility, of tliat fibmifllve fnirit which had
.ieen fpo.ien of, he would join witti gentlemen in
their opinion. Sc. weak, so outcast a let of men,
mould no- difrra ;e filch fentimenta by uttering
them. But he believed they should do right to
utter them (Mr. W. Lyman called Mi. Harper to
order.)
Ihe speaker said the gentleman was out of or
der- r * wast about to go,on, but the fpe;ik
er informed him he could rife only to explain. (The
speaker read the rule on this fubjed.) Mr. Harper
rose, and the fpesker wiflied to know whether he
appeaieo from 'hechair to the house. He arfwer
ed 111 the affirmative; and on leave being given, be
explained to the house, that he meant to (hew that
"the maui quellton ought to be put, as a proper de
claration to be made at this time. He complained
of tl.,e ..littnefi ajjainll him, whii;h was closing his
mouth on an important queltion—he however sub
mitted to the house. The sense of the house being
t-ken, he was declared out of order, 50 votes be
ing againlt him.
The previous question was then taken by yeas
and 'nayand carried 49 to 30.
On motion of Mr. lilount, the yeas and nays
were next taken on tUiking out the last sentence,
and I.>ft, J4. to 24 ; and dn motion of the fame
gentleman, they were also taken upon the answer
as amended, and carried, 67 to 12. The yeas
and nays have already appeared in the minute of
the day.
In Select and Common Councils of the City of
Philadelphia, 22d December, M 796.
" Refulved, 1 bat the Mayor be autli. used to
offer a leward ot FIVE HUNDRED DOL
LARS f«*r apprehending and prosecuting to con
viction any person or persons who may Ve found at
tempting to set fiie to any part of the city j and
that the Mayor be rq ietted to dtaw an order on
the Treasurer for the money.''
Ex;ra£ from the minutes,
WILLIAM H. TOD. Clk. S. C.
EDW. J.COALE, Clk. C. C.
PROCLAMATION.
City of Philadelphia, fs,
WHEREAS the city 01 Savannah in the state
of Georgia hath lately been greatly injured from a
mod ter.ible conflagration, and by authentic infor
rnition from the cities of New-York and Eakimotc, I
it appears that attempts have been lately made to
ft fire to those populous «nd wealthy cities; and
from certain circumstances which have lately occur
red in different parts of this city, there is reason to
apprehe-id that there are persons lurking within its
limits, who aie inftigsted with the diabolical.design
ot letting it on hi e. 'Now, in order to exert the vi
gilant attention of all welldrfp«fed persons to deleft
ai'.d bring to punilhment fucbattrocious incendmies,
I Hilary Baker, Mayor of the said city of Phila
delphia, in pursuance of the foregoing rcfolutioiis
of the Sele£t and Common Coßm-ilaof the said city,
do hereby offer a reward of FIVE HUNDRED
DOLLARS, to be paid to any person, or per
sons who (lull apprehend and profecuteto convicti
on* any prrfon or persons who may be found at
tempsii.g to set lire to any part of the laid city of
Philadelphia.
, Gi'.en undei my band, at Philadelphia, the
twenty third day of December, Anno- 1
Dominj One Thousand Seven Hundred '
and Ninetv-Six.
HILARY BAKER,
Mayot of the laid City of Philadelphia. 1
—_
STOCKS. I
Six per Cent. - - .... l^/iotoij
Three )»r Cent. ------ . jq/b I
4i per Cent. - -
per Cent 16/4 1
Deferred Six per Cent. .... 11/81012/9
is.AJ\K United States, ... xjtoioperct '
P»nnfylvariia, ... . >3 to 24 do. I
Korth \inerica, - . - - 40 to 45 do. \
Inlurance Comp. N. A. shares, - 37 1-2 to 40 per et. |
Pennfylv 2 1-2 to 5 per ct. belsw par.
, COURSh OF EXCHANGE. !
On London, at 30 days, par to iys <
at 60 days, par to 170 I
" at 9° days, 162 1-2 to pir. t
Amsterdam, 60 days, per guilder. . 40
90 davs, 42
' t
• — a
SWAN N'S 5
Riding School, fJorfc Academy Infirmary. k
Adjoining the Public Square, Market bticct. l
T. SWANN a
URNS his finceie thaiikt to those gentlemen by whom i
he has been employed, during his refideuce in thi, Ctty, and
flatters himfeif thai the fucccfs ot his effbits, in the numerous,
obdinate and. dangeious diseases in Horses, in which he has a
been consulted, together with his moderate charges, will (e- A
uie their futurctavors and recommendation.
He now beg* leave to inlorm them and the public a; large
that hts ipaciou and commodious premises, erected for the
purposes <ibo\c d<-ftr.bed arc open lor the rccepiion of pupils al
of either iex, who wifhto bcioftrufted in the Art of Hiding, f r
and the light method oi governing their horses, so as to ride
them with eale, elegance, and fatety—their horses will be ,
carefully and expeditiouliy broke, for every purpose, and it
made obedient to the will of the riders i the natural powers ci
whicn are fhui up,i« them, will be unfolded by art, calling • '
forth uniformity ot motion, and giving to that noble animal . 1
ali thole beauties of adion which providence has so bounti
iuljiy bellowed on them. w
Also, at' his hospital, every difor er to which the horse is a (
liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed •
Py long and repeated experience.
1 he utility of the above invitation has never bean qneftion.
Ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, gentleman's fc
Jlud will and T. as the firft eftablifher of
the veterinary m, solicits and relics upon the fuppoit of that
public (which he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to
biingit to perfection. The idea of a fubfeription for fhat ad
purpose hjs beeu hinted by feveial gentleman, who wish to
promote tije institution—the amount of each fubfcrip;ion to
»e returned by services in any of the departments he profeffes,
agreeable to the rate of charges ftatcd in his haud bill. Such
fjblcription is now open, and the signatures of many refpeft
able gentlemen already obtained. He therelore injorms his
liieuds and fu. h Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
, ' lf>f^ 0r being known, that,he (hall in a few days take B
the liberty of waiting upon them aud folic king their support ai
* n d protjftioo. pt
N H. Horses are properly prepared for those JLadiet and 0 f
Ceu lemen wht/wilh to be n,
Nov. Hh&f'
PENNST"L VJKL4 LEGISLATURE.
in Extra& from the Journal of the Senate.
' Saturday, December 17, 1796.
to The committee appointed to confer with the di
to rectors of the bunk of Pennsylvania, chosen by
thehenatc, having, according to the directions of
r _ the Senate, joined the committee of the House of
It Keprefeutatives, appointed "to -eceive, from the
In- dircdor. of rhe bank of Pennsylvania who have
er bee. appointed by the any communi
lt. c*tton( they may make relating to that institution,"
r . report—j
" r 'a""* 3t the srft conft,t ' nce w '«h the faij '
st directors, they informed your cemmiitee, that :
c . John Barclay, Esq. pi fa-dent of the said bank, had
•d applied, to his own use, a large sum of money,
is 'he property of the bank ; that the said director,, '
j. as the immediate repr< Tentative. of the state in that
K '"ft'tU'ton, conceived it to be their duty, 10 make
an early commu lication of t"ne circuro(h»ce to the
Le b iflaiure, not only for their information, but
„ that a committed might be appointed to receive,
fiom time to time, an account of any other cir
rs cumllances which, on itiv C l>iga:ion, might appear
; to demand attention.
Ie At a subsequent conference with the said direst-
T |ors, your committee were info.med, that a more
„ | accurate investigation nf the atcounts of the bank
,f :ake "- P lat ' C ' Wl '^ n il appeared, that Jonathan
Mifflin, the late calhier, and several »iher persons,
. had, by over drafts and other means, obtained from !
,f the auk sundry fnms of money, the property of !
the : ank ; that, in consequence of this difeovery,
0 the diltdtors applied for payment of the several <
(linn so procured, a confide*ask portion of which i
has been paid in money, and security taken for the
remainder, except to a fmali amount.
J Upon the whole, your committee are of opinion,
„ that thelffs which the ftocklioldcrs of the bank of;
Pei<nfyl»a;.ia may sustain, by the <iifagree*ble trai.f
atftions above fpeciticd, will amount to a very in.
coi.hdeiable sum, being, in the estimation of the
■ diteflors, lefn than Bfieen thousand dollars, from
every canfe, fiuce the commencement of the insti
tution.
Your committee think it proper to (late, for the
iiifoimation of the Senate, that the whole amount
of ovcr-dia!ts was about two hundred thousand
: dollars.
1 J They, with pleasure, add, that the conduct of
• I the direclor. on the part of the state, throughout
, , this bulinefs, merits the approbation of .-,11 who arc
| lnterelted 111 the welfare of that :nftitution ; and
I th;t they have reason to belies, the Bank is in a
■ fit j*.on perfeftlr fafe, and, therefore, dcfcrving
1 the confidence of the public in general '
1 __ I
Ho'jfe of Keprefentatives. j
Yeilerday the house w s engaged in hofinefs re
la'ive to the bank of Pennfylvan.a. Some Jays !
fil". a leloluiion parted their body, appointing a
joint committee of the two houses to it-ipme o*l he
Direflom of that bank, for the purpose of laying
before the fioule, a llatemeut of the accounts of
the said Bank, includiag an acco.mt of the notes
111 circulation, notes and cafa in r.a.id, &c. This
refolntion was sent to the Senate for concurrence ; '
but inltead of concurring in this reioiiuiosi, they
sent a diffe rentone to the house of Reprefentn- 1
rives, upon a principle which had already been v
overruled in that house, appointing a committee f
to make the enquiry, and to report generally. '
Fhis lefolution was yesterday under consideration, v
when Mr. Lieb moved-to puflpone the bufiuel". lor 1
the ptirpofe of appointing a conference betwixt
the two houses. This was objt&ed to on the
ground of unneceffariiy protra&iug the bufinels,
which, it was would unnoceffarily injure
,ne credit of the Bank, by rxcitu g unueceffary "
alarm. On Mr. Evans obferviug that if the house a
h d been more particular in its enquiries hereto- d
toi e, the mifehiefs which had arisen by the over
drawing of individuals, would m l probably have
happened, Mr. Wain replied that the gentleman
was miltaken iti fuppotmg *wy enquiry the Legif- 11
lature had a right to make could prevent the over- t
drawing of individuals, fjnee a committee from the v
two houses had not power to look into the ac- c*
counts oi iadividujls, but merely to obtain a grne- t
ral flatement. He was in favour of the refolu- C
Hon from the Senate, as comaiaing all that was d
neceffaiy, though he said he doubted not the cob- b
ctrns of the Bank would bear the drifted fciutiny, si
and particularly at this time, as the preferit was a •'
season peculiarly favourable to the Banks in Phila- w
delphia. But, if gentlemen supposed (as it had 1
been hinted in the courfc bf the debate) that the H
bank of Pennfylvawia, or any other Bank, eould at
any moment answer all the demands which might "
be made upon it, they were miflaken. If this were
tbe ease, laid he, how ciruld we receive nine per d
cent for ourmoney, when the Batik onlv charges h
Jix to its ruftomers ? ' a<
If this were so, dockhqlders could receive 110
! more than would remain out of 6 per cent, when
| all the expences of conducing the business were de ti
fiayed. But, Mr. Wain added the profits of a
bank arise from its being able to discount beyond b
its capital, and any step taken which had a tenden- £
cy to lefien the good opinion of the public in an --
institution of this kind, would necefTariiy rsnder it ~*
less produflive. At length the sense of the houle
was taken by yeas and nays, when there appeared ?!
40 in favour of the podponement and 22 ajrainii
it.
Mr. Leib then moved that a committee of con
ference with the Senate be appointed 5 but en some
objeftioHs being made to it, he withdrew his mo
tioi, and the house adjourned. The answer to the
address did nAt come under coofidention.
For Sale,
Seven elegant Scites for Buildings,
Oppofitc the State-Houfc Garden and ComjreJs- 1
Hall ; each Lot being 35 f«et front on Sixth-Rreet, p,
and iso feet deep to 1 14 ect Court, agreeable to > 3,
pian which may be fcen at the Coffce-Houfe or at the sa
office of Abraham Shotniaker, No. 124, So. Fourth- K
flrect, where the terms will b« raaJe known. W.
Dseembcr *toj
Philadelphia. j
1 c
SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 14, 1795. '
'y RetUKN OF VCTSS , ' R - -g y
if FOR ■; *■ a £?- . ,5 J 5 ,
,f PRESIDENT MV,|| .I f | I
le AND 5<5 % - .S> J "*1 3
~ VICE-PRESIDENT s >• v
j_ New-Hampftiire, 61 1 " S
„ I Massachusetts, 16 I ? 1 . F
j Khode-Jfland, 4! 4 V
| Conneflicut, 94 . G
J 1 Vermont, r 1 4 1 4 V
t ; New-York, ,»! IS E
d New-Jersey, 7 7 G
, Pemifyiviuia,' r 2 1413 D
Delaware, ,1 <1 I I _
t Maryland, 741 4 1 3' a
. £»,, ' 1 » y » ■ f
c T i-nnciFee, I
t North-Carolina, I 111 6 1 M
J South Carolina, g 1 g
Georgia, ' Pi
- T - u! ' '7X : 59 57 15 2 5 1~ a a ,~7
• P 1,1 North - c '' r ol'na, one rote was given for Charles B<
; Pincknev ana three for Judge Iredell. M
L ' '''I" Ncw : Ha mpn,ire of the firft authority,
reeved yetlerday, mform, that the Kfefloh of that state F 6
gave 6 votes for Mr. Adams and 6 for Mr. Ellfworth — w
, Ihe account heretofore publiftcd, of 6 votes having been D<
I 6 ™ * l waitonfequently erroneous. c
F! ceiled Sr were re- °
I I Notwitlißanding the .'ll fucctfs of the Adams
ticket in Suuth-Carolina, produced by slanderous
n.if.eprcfent.t'on.uf the Vice-Prefideot, it Is with 5 1
much fatiifachon we notice the Barnes of the eight
; candidates who were on that ticket, as they a,e all Le
kntjwn 10 be among the very firft and most refpec
table charafiera, hot o»lj in that Hate, but in any w
part #f the United State,. We repeat their names M
with pleaiure.
Governor Vanderhsrft, Governor of S. C. Gi
General Washington, ' Ar
Mr.. H. W. Defauflure, late director of the
Mint. Ril
General Barnwell, g'
Dr. Ramfajr, the Hiftorias, President of the No
Senate.
Mr. R. Barnwell, late Member of Congress, J
Speaker o>f the House. No
N-tliai'iel RufTcll, Esq.
John Bull, Esq. late Member of Congress. Pe*.
When lucb men Alport the federal inlerejl, tfiere
tan be no doubt, that the aberrations tefultinu from Pl
pariy and personal views, and a,want of informal!-
on will be of (hurt duration, and that light and te- Ch
*"*!' Wl " '" oa re ' lo " ; South-CaruKna to that dif Ho
inguifhed liation in'the federal union, which flie Col
has alway; held. Bm
Ga
Ye,»er<liiy Jonathan Smith, esquire, of Chester Ab
county, was < ii.>fen by the dircdW, calhierof the Re>
Bank of Pcnufylvauia. I c
1 . Bio
For the lad two d.-ys the weath.r has Seen fe c '
vere-ly cold. On Thursday the Mercury in r
Famibeu'i Thermometer was 26 degrees below Co:
■ erasing point ; and ycftsrday morning the Dela- ®'°
ware liver was frozen, so that many persons crof Bus
led 011 the ice. Nearly op-ofite to Spruce Street
it broke undet a youwg man, and he fell into the t
water. With gr*at diffi l uhy he was saved, after Ne>
being uearly c*hati!icd with thecold. P' ai
BY THIS DAY'S MAILS. Ll l
NEW YORK, Dccemb.r 22. Ho
We have received by Capt. Wood from Gre- His
nock, London papers to 03. 17. The French r
at counts aie later, but the German accounts give a r f
different complexion to many tranfaitions. p l '
Private Correfpomlence.
Bremen, Oflober 7. Por
The enemy'* daring plan of uniting in Gtr- Far
many their tinee-defolatiug aimies, has met with Tr,
the fate which its temerity deserved, and, for the Thc
welfaie of focietjr, is totally defeated. Jourdaa
completely routed, Ins late army fcattcrcd by twen
ties, anil ft ill pwiiued by the honeli peafan r ry of \y\
Germany — Moreau retreating in the utmolt difor- b
der, every day alteiing his route, but now said to Frt
be mauhmg towards Bnfgau j Buonaparte, necef.
fiuted to abandon bis darling projeit of p netrat- r^' x
irig into '1 yrol, where every man, nay where every 1 p.'' 1
woman and child, is under arms, instead of palling
Trent, has retrogaded beyond Verona ! The Auf- flsli
triaas art in full poffeflion of the city of Ulm, Pin
lince the 25th ult. T:,e French garrison of 800 Kin
men became prisoners of war. Mai
The King of Prussia has thought proper, mo- 0<
deftly, to withdraw his garrison from Nuremberg— i h ,j
he did not think thc moment an opportune one to
add that tohisother political robbenes. Ld v
The French, through absolute want of provision, Bell
meant to marc a to the -Hundfruck, leaving only Jon
two diviiions behind them. Ou-
The enemy not being able to cope with the Wo
brave Aulliians, ate now trying in the environs of
Dufleldorff, what they can eftedi among themfelvei j jet
--lcarcely a day passes without feme bloody lencontre Git
—and latterly—as a letter before me states—live Git
hundred oF them were killed. Col
New Books. Bo<
—— Dul
Robert Campsell & Co.
No. 40, South SecondJlreet,
Are just opening a large and extenlivt affortmeut of P
the latest and heft London editions, among which real
are the following new, valuable and scarce Books. I
Collodion of State Papers, relative to the present Wars >
between Euglaad and France, containing authentic copie
of all the treaties, manifefloes, proclamations, &c. made
by the different powers, 3 vols. 8 vo.
Stedman's History of the American Revolution, 1 vols
4to, with elegant maps, plates, £cc.
Fexgufon'« history of the Roman republic, 3 vol 4 to.
British Poets, 75 vols, with the lives by Df. Johnfgn. it E
Same book, 44 vols. Jam
King of Kruffia's works ao vols. Bvo FrencH. Jofc
Megnot's survey «f thc Ottoman Empire, by Hawkins, whe
4 vols. ' £
—— ipeechu in the National affemhlv tranfia'tel
by White, 1 vols- /
travelling anecdotes.
Secret hiflory oT Charles t[. t volt.
Eritilh Plutarch, 8 vols, is mo.
Conrtreau's eonfeffions, % vols.
— e "ya'» hiPory of California, 1 Vols, Jvo-.'
£ Anderfon s account of China, 8 vo.
5 ®^ u Hiont and works, 10 vols. Bto.
E " " journey thro' Fsatiders, Brabant and Germany te
Switzerland, SvO.
2 Wyndhams's travels thro' Europe. 4 vsls, Bvo.
6 SaiyrtioVe's furvty of the Ruffian Empire.
I Forfler s northern voyages, 8 vo.
4 Varieties of literature, a vol. 8 vo.
Groiier s description of China
Wefton s Univtrful Botanist, 4 vols. 8 vo.
Elegant extra#s in Na rral History, 1 vols. Bvo
Guthrie's history of the world, Jta vols
D Ahville s compendium of ancient geography, 4 vols*
with maps, &c.
Blackftone's commentaries oft the laws of En<rlaOd. bv
Christian, 4 vols.
J n h H Halt Stephenlbn's works, J vols. Bvo.
Langhorn's Plutarch, 6 vols, 14 mo.
Beauties of thc Drama, 4 vols.
Muller s Illustration of the Sexual systems, 2 vols. Bvo.
with plates
Priestley's leAures on hiftofy, a vols. Bvo i
— Chambers'sDiilionary of arts and sciences, by Dr. Rees»
t j 5 vols, folio.
Beawe s history' civil, commercial, political and literary
ies of Spain and Portßgal, a vol" in one, folio,
Manftein's memoirs ofßuffia, trOrn 17*7 f0 1744, With
y. maps, plans, &c. 4to.
te Forreft's voyage to New Guinea, with plates, 4to.
Wright's travels thro' France, e vols Bve
:Q Douglafs oa the antiquity of the ear>-h, 4to
Clavigero'shiltory of Mexico, translated by Cullen, i Vols
e- 4to- plates.
Condorcet's life ofTurgot
MarcttiU travels tkro' Cyprus, Syria, &c. i vols.
IS I-avater's eflays on Physiognomy, 3 voU. Bvo.
jj World Difplay'd, ao vols, bound in 10.
, Memoirs dc Dumouricz.
1 Foundlinghofpital for wit, a collcAion of fugitive
" 10 vo:s. nmo.
!1 Letters from Paris in 1791 and With a reprefentatioA
s* capture of Louis XVI. at Varennes, z vols*
y 8 vo ;
Moore's view of Society and manners in Italy, France*
Switzerland and Germany, 4 Vols. Bvo.
RufTel's modern Europe, j vols.
Gibbon's Roman Empire, 1 Vols, abridged.
Andrew s hifto,yof the war with America, France, Spam
e and Holland, 4 vols. Bvo with portraits, maps, plans, &c»
Riheaut's history of the French Revolut on.
Ulloa's voyage to South America
Burke on thc sublime and beautiikil
C Neckar on the a immifiration of she French finances
Mortimer's complete diAionary of trade and commerci
, folio.
' Northern antiquities, I vols. Bvo.
Dodfley s collection of Poems. 6 vols. Bvo.
Radcliffe's journey thro' Holland, 4to.
Pennant s history of Quadrupeds, with elegant engravittgsj
e 4 vols. 4to.
n Pl.ilisiiiphical Diislionary, 4 vol. tl mo.
Bolingbroke's i'hilotoj.lucal works, 5 vol. cvO.
Antiquitol\ memoirs of the Coarf of Loiiis XVI. & vol. Bv<»
— Children's friei.d, in Ital.an, 4vM Bvo.
Home's element's of crtticifm, a vol. 8v«.
e Colledion of Prologues &c. 4vo . limo
Buchan s life or Fletcher and Thornton, Bvo.
Gay's fables,•'With elegant engravings, 8 vo
Kennecy oil Gardening, 2 vol Bvo
r Abcrcromhie s Gardener's Dictio -.ary, 3 vol. ii mO.
j Remarkable in ancient aurt modern hitlbry, eX a
emphfied by biographical ikrtche!.
Biographical Ditflionary, containing thc lives of the most
eminent persons, Bvo.
Comparative display of different opinions on the French
i revolution, 2 vol
/ Complete art of Book-keeping.
. Biographical aneodotesof W Hogarth thePairiter.
BufFon's Natural history of Birds, 9 vol. Bvo.
Jltcgant extraifs, proie, verfe,epiftle and sermons 4Volßvoi
Martinicre, lc Grend D Aionaire Geographiqae et Cn
r tiqne, 13 vol. folio.
, New lyftem of Natural History, 3 vol. 8V 6. With
Plans for the government of Brnifh India, pubhfhed un
der the auipiccs of Mr. Dundas as Secretary, 4to.
Lord Hau kelbury on the condu& of Great-Britain, ta
Neutral cations.
Hoyle's Dictionary, or treasury of music, Bvo.
. History of Francc, from the firft cftab ilhmtfnt of thai
! monarchy, to, arid including a narration of the late
revolution, 3 vol. Bvo.
History of Spain, 3 vol.
Goldsmith's experimental yhilofophy, 1 Vols. BtfOi
Kippax's Taeory and Praclice of Commrrce*
Portlock's and Dixon's Vcyages.
Family Brewer.
1 Travels of Anaicharfis.
, Thompson's Seasons, elegant t-'ditiett
Payne's Geographical Extraits
Syltetn of natural history, » voh ft-oni the Gertnan of
' l'rofeflbr Raff
f Williams's letters froin the 28th of July to the efti'
blilbment of the lionftitutioh of '95
1 Frend's Algebra
Chalmers's collection of treaties* 2 Vol.
>Six on the conftrui£lion and tife of thermonletera
, i Ned Evans, 4 vol.
! Clarentine, 3 vol.
Sullivan's view of nature, 6 vol;
Btloe's translation of Herodoti.s, 4 vol.
Pindar's works, with a new volume
1 King of Prussia's work, »o vol. in French
Marshal's rural ornaments, 2 vol.
I Hoole's translation of Ariofto, i vol.
The kifles of Johannes Secundes
Bclliham's memoirs of the reign of Oeorgi ill,
1 Letters of an Hindno Rajah, 2 voh
Edward's history of the Weft-Indies, 1 vol.
Bells Bntifii theatre, 15 vol. elegant
■ Jones's do. le vol. do.
Ouvres de Voltaire, 70 tojn. do.
Works of the king of Prussia, 13 voi. (Enjliih) ddt
Abbe de Caloune's view of the political ltate of Europe,
Swift's works, 27 vol.
1 Letters from Scandinavia, 2 vol.
Gibbon's miscellaneous works, 3 voh
Gibbon's Roman Empire, 6 toI.
Collection of Farces, 6 vol.
K. C. & Co. have received in immekfe cßtleitioh of
Books in every department of literature—Ltindbn and
Dublin editions—amongst which are a capital iffo/t
---ment of LAW-BOOKS, MEDICAL B -OKS, &c»
all in the neatest and Tome of them in the tnoit fpleit
did bindings.
Public and private Libraries supplied on the tnoft
reasonable terms,
December 24 oaW3w
I £ ' - .. . . - ■ - - - . , . ....
A Card.
If Motif ear G H. SoHli,
Who left Bordeaux the 10th June last, and arrived
at Boston about the middle of Attguft, in the fchdonef
Jane, is in Philadelphia, he it rrquefted to call ©ri
Joseph Anthony & Co. No. 5, Clitfnut-ftrect, wh<*
, who will give him fomt information ef importance.
Dea«nber n t 1794. jFOR SJLEf 7
A PLAN 1 AT I ON,
A BOUT 12 miles from this City, f:triage in Abirtjton
.L+i. Township, MoHtgomery-Coanty ; containing 70
acres, a new ilcne houfe,two ftr>ries high, 2 rooms 011 e
floor, fire places m each, a ft one kitchcn and stone Ipring
haufe, over an" excellent spring of water, a barn, stable, c t
ftct.s, barracks, &c. A large apple Orchard, and a variety c [
of other fruit, a 1 out 1 a acres of good meadow well water- t }-
ed, and wood fufficient for fire, and fencipg the place. t j-
PoUefiion may be hady the ifl of April next. Property in a j
this City wiil be taken in exchange. Enquire At No. 37, f<=
Arch-Street. fv
Philadelphia, September 13,1796. ttftf
rO BE SOLD,
A LEAtlßfor/even ytars t frim the 25th March next, in thht
capital and beautiful FARM, called
PROSPEC T-H ILL, \
Situated within one quarter of a mile tfomths Brindywin*?
Mil's, <f»d half a mile from the borough of Wiiir.ingtun. t
THE dwellinj. houfe N is built of stone, two ftorics hig'v,
gentee!y ftniftled, and contain handfoir.e rooms on
a floor, besides an entry, wuhcrpua! garrets, and convenient
cellars. It ra gcncially'.houg»it to command the modi
grcejhlt #ro(ieft of th« Delaware, from the fourcc of that
liver Ift iheCipt s. 'I'hi» profped ia gieatly ci;.b. llifVicd by
1 full view of a vrft bodv of meaciow, through wWch the r
Chrilliane and Brandv*inecreeks are feeo winding in beau-
tifnl meanders. Near the house n/e a Kitchea, a
stone liable and hav loft, a bam, a Carriage hf.ttfe, ml.-
So:, and a well of as uu'e water as any 011 the cos",
nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land, □- •
bounding with fruit, and particularly v.uh peach trees, ol
he veiv bed kind, brought from Mary land, and in full bear
?ng. There is. moreover, on the place, a voung, apple
'orchard to bear, and leveral old trees that product
abundantly, 01 Tides cherry and .ther ornamental trees, in ,
gre.-t numbers. The farm conf.fts of near sixty acres of Und,
of good quality, and clear of incumbrances, except
twenty of which arenow in rxceltcr.t clovct and timothy,
and ten more will be ready for sowing next fprmg. V wr
fidericeof nearly « years has convinced the fub:cnber that |
the fiiaition is remarkably health,;, The great nod road
-from Philadelphia to the Southward runs wiinin seventy 1
yard* of the house. In a word, the oca .ties and eonvem
enee of this fttttation eannot be enumerated irr an adverttle
-ment, and when cxainmcd. will probably command the at
tentioo of any person who !fc dt:!irl..o! living at one of the
most elegant country feats on the comiHeot. The ptr.chifer
may.nteror. the premil s nest (prir.g, or peiluos. this fall,
if appttcat'toa be immediately made to D.flor XIC.:IO[, A . S
WAY, i« Philadelphia, to D.iCkor VvH I RiON, ont' a
premiles, or, itt hi* ablenes, to Mr. GEO»GS TRUII 1, in
Wilmingtt*.
A quantity of excellent Say, Grain in the ground, some
Stock, occ. may be had by the purc'r.afer at the umc of sale.
Nov. 7 eodtf
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 5, South Fovrthjlreet,
RETURNS h s grateful ac'tnowledgments to his
Friends and the l'ebtic for thtir liberal encouragement,
and begs leaire to folic il; a continaance of their favor*.
He has on hand an extensive affortnlent of the
Mojl Fajhitmable GOODS,
And of the best quality, fuitallc for the fcifon.
At this shop Gentlemen can be furnifhed vyiththe W<b
material", and have them made tip in the neateil and moil
Faftiionable manner, and on the fljortcll notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
psn&nal attention, to them.
November 10. ws
The Elephant
TS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are rcfpecifully iivforrned, that,
this animal is to be leen every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning tiil fui» down, in Market
■ftreet, No. iss, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-ftieets.
Admit <1:1 ce. a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee bim.
gy At the reqotll of many persons it will be
exhibited on evenings from ftve to eight o'clock,
at half a dvdar eich.— l'he 100 m will be well j
lighted. November 7.
Treasury of'the United States.
% T OTICE is hereby civen to all persons who are or
j\ may be Creditbrs t'? the United States, for any funis
of tho F.ndc.l Debt, or Sto:!, luring a frefent inkrejl of fix
ter centum per annum.
ift, That pursuant to an Ad of Congreft pasTed on the
48th day of April, 1796, intitled an in additioti to an
a&, intituled 4< An adt making further ppovifiori for ths
support of public credit, and for the redemprfon of the
public debt," the faiddebt or. ftoek will be reimfcurfj.! and
paid in roannfer following, to wit. " Firfl, bf dividends
« to be made en the latl days of March, June and Sejtteni
<c ber for the preffntyear, and from the year onerhoufand
« seven hundred and ninety-seven, to tUt year one thou
• « sand eight hundred in; kifwe.ur the rate of
« one .and one half per centum upon the original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lall day of
" December for the present year, and from the year one
tlioufand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the: year
" one thoqfand eight hundred and f«ventecn incltifive, at
« the rate of three arid,one half per centum upon the ori
t% gihal capital; and by ?. dividehd to be ma "e on thf last
" day of December, in the year one thoftfind eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of fych fwm, as will be then ade
'* quate, according to' the contraA, for the 4t:al redemp
-41 tion ps th laid 'stock."
2d. All between payments on account of
nterefi and Principal being thus abolished by the
ment of the permanent r :le of reimbnrf(jm«iit abov<a <!e
---eribed, it lias become necessary to Vary acc®rding!y the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; th; public
reditors will therefore observe that the following form
s eftablilhedfor all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, vir.
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that
do male, eonjlitvU and appoint
of my true and lawful At
. t6rney,for me ,ondin my name, ie receive the dividends ivhrcb are,
or JbtjH be payable according to lata, <m,the (her* defending the
stock) {landing in my name in the IcJ-s of (1 re defcribmg. the
books of the Treasury or tire Commifljoncr of Loans,
where the flock is credited) from (here nifert the com
mencement and expiration oi time for which the power ol
attorney is to continue) iditb poiuer also an attorney or atht
. jfLs under bim, for pjtrf to rr.uh andfubjliiuie, andt* -do all
liivjul a£ls require Jul ejje&ing the premises, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that my said Attorney fir lis fubjVilule, flailla-wfid
ly do, by virtue hereof,
Li Witness hereof, I lave hereunto set my Hand and Seat tb*
day of in the Year
Sealed and Delivered
in ptifence off.
BE IT KNOIVN, that on the day of
efr: mepetfonally tame
ivitbin na ned aad acknowledged thecalove letter of attorney to be
hit ait and deed.
In tejlin:ony tvhereof / have k+teunt* set n:y Han i end affix
ed Seal tlx day and year lap; afortjaid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions
from the Secretary ofthe Treasury.
SAIWUEL MEREDITH,
Treasurer of tb: United States.
-m&itlj
Territory of the United Stales, ,V. W. of the Ohts-
Torneh )
v. . C Foreign attachment. cle
Parker, j hel
Notice is hereby given, o'c
To JOSEPH PARKER, late of Kaikaflcia in the{nrw)
conftty of Randolph, in the Territory aforefaid, Mer
chant, that in purftsance of ttye laws of the Territory in ~
that cafe provided, a foreign a£tachra«nt hath issued out of
the county court, of common pleas of thciaid county,
again**, the lands and tenements, gouds, chattels and ef
feeU, rights and credit, cf the fa Id Joseph Parker, at the
suit of George Turner, Efouire ; and that unless the laid *
J oseph Parlter appear by himfclf, or Attorney, to give tw
ipecial bail to fuc)> ftiit, judgment by default will be en- a
tared against him, at the court to be held in and for the to;
fyid county, next, after the -e«piration of twelve months
i from this date 5 and the estate or cftates so attached, will
be fold for the of all creditors, who (hall ap
pear to be juflly intitled to a demand thereon, and (hatt
r.pply for that purpoft. Dated at Kaika&ia, aforefaid,
this twentyninth of March, 1796.
d JOHN RICE JONES, Attorney for Plaintiff.
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Seafan,
And f#d on clover hay at the Subscribers place, is
rai!e« on the Bristol Road, where £ood tabling is pro
vided, and great «are will be taken oft the oi
William Bell.
Nov. rnwfawmthtf.
Lottery and Broker's Office, ti
No. 64, $&uth Second street.
TICKETS ill the Caxfal Lot&ery, No. 2, for Tale—a n
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in ,
fehe late lottery. , ,
Check. Books kept for examination and r: : gifterixijr, for
the City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prises exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prices in the late New-
Port Lonj-Wharf, Hotel and Public School*Lo.ttcry, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application cf the public
and his friends, who wifti to purcSafT or f 11 Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property
\* Alft) Tickets in the Schuylkill Bviigc Lottery for -1
sale at Ten Dollcrs each, which will be drawn early in J
the Spring. c
Wtn. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augtsfi 18, 1796. mth
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE. .
No. 63 South Third ilr«jet,oppofite the imional new Bank.
SAMUEL M FRaUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,*
hsv« entered into co-.paTtnerfhip, under the firm of j
I-RaTOCES & VAN REED, in th« business of Brokers j ]
Conveyancers and Commiffton merchants. They buy and j
fell on commission every species of flock, notes of hand, 1
bills of exchange, house* and lands, &c. j "
Money procured on dcpofits, Sec. <scc. ali k:rda c'
1 writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and
» dispatch; accviunts and books fettled* in the '
mod correal manner. Constant attendance will be given. | '
They foltcit a share of the public favor ; they arc deter- j
- mined to endeavour to drCerve jt.
N. B. The ufemoil fecrscy sbferved.
S \ MUEL M. fRAUNCES,
IOHN VAN REED,
t Philad. August 27, m&wtf
City cf Washington..
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR rilS. lUPAOVEMENT 0 KTHI
FEDERAL CITY.
• A magnificent > 20,000 dollars, & J
. 'tdweliing-hotife, j calh 30,000, are ) '°°
il 1 ditto ij.ooo & cad* 55,000 40,000
x ditto 15,000 3c cafli 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & oifli 10,000 10,000
l ditto 5,000 & caih 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cafr. 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000 '
1, do. 5,000 cach, ire • 10,000
rod». I,eoo - - 10,000
e ,10 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
s no do. 50 - - 10,000
c 4CO do. 25 - - 10,00#
d 1,500 do. 20 £ 20,000
| s 15,000 do. lo ™ 150,000
i- ft
d i5>739 Prizes.
1- 33,161 Blanks.
,f
1. 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
if —
>e N. 3. To favour those who may take a quantity of
ir /TickeH,'hf priae of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the jo,ooothe last but one :
i- And approved notes, securing payment m either money
ft .or prreep, in ten days after drawing, will be received for
1- any number not less than '30 tickets.
i his Lottory v.'Ul afford ah elegant ffteciinen of the pri
-- vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Washington—-
Two beautilul designs are already fcWted for the entire
fronts 011 two of the public fquarcs ; from these
itispTopofed to creel two centre and four corner bail dings,
8- as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
ic the manner defcrlbccl in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery,
m A nett deduolion of five pco" cont. will be made to defray
se the neceflary cxpenfes of printing, the furphis
will be made a part of the fund intended lor the National
at University, to be ejected within the Gity of Washington.
The Prawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.—The money prizes will be payable i:: thirty days
«f»*?r it is finifhed ; and any pr;ze* for which fai tunstc
tiambers are not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is cl6fcd, are to be confidereda? given towards
\e the funi for the University ; it being determined to fettle
s, the whole buftnefs in a year from the ending of the draw
i- ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
oi l'he real securities given Cor the payment of the Prizes,
r- 3re held by the Prcfident and two Dire&ors of tiy:
ill *oT Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
■td mount ot the lottery.
y- The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiflioners afliftcd in the management of the
hi L-iotel-Lottery are requeued to undertake thi* arduous talk
a second time oil bebalf ©f the public ; a fufficient nnm
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
je&s may continue to favor the design. V
By accounts received from the different parts of the
be Continet\t as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are allured that the
t- drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and
caution unavoidably neceflary to insure a fafe disposal of
1- » he tickets, has rendered the foorr suspension indifpeniable.
is SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tiekets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Oilman, Boston t
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Rickard Wells*
Cooper's ferry. eo
Bank cf North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an
cleilion for twelve Direflors for the ensuing year will be
held at the Bank on Monday the 9th of January at ten
o'clock,
RICHARD WELLS, Caftier. K
Dec. 6. fo'.'T
VVafhmgton Canal Lottery, 1
N°. I. D
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authoHfed
the underwritten, to raifc twenty-fix thousand, a j
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, from th Po
tomacto theEaflern Branch Harbour.
; The following is the SCHEME of No. I. —
I Viz 'i Prhze-of zo>ooo dollars, ao,ooo
I ditto io,ooo io,ooo
: T,£i.tr} >*» »*» »
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
10 ditto *>' 100 * 1,000 .
55 ditto 50 I,7J°
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To he raised for th« Csunal, 26,15s °
5850 Prijas, 1-7J,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
175C0 Tickets, atTcn Dollars, - 175,030
.Jjr* The Commiffioneri h.ivj taken the Securities re *
quired by the aforefaid aft for the punctual payment ol
the prize.. .
Tljc drawing of this Lottery will commence, within*
delay, a, soon as the Tickets are fold, of which tiiic'v
notice will be given.
Such prizes .is are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is fintJiied, (hall be cpnfidered as relinquished for
the benefit »f We Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
' ( Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG, i
DANIEL CARROLL,q/D. 0
LEWIS DEBLOIS, 1
GEOROE WALKER, I
K Wb. M. DUNG ANSON, 6
THOMAS LAW,
ic JAMES BARRY.
i, City of Walhipgion, Feb. it ■ 5
Paterlon Lottery.
> r raising ftxthoafand fix hundred and sixty-seven
' n JL dollars and fifty cents, by a de<iu6Uon of fifteen per '
cent from the prizes, and-not two blanks to a prize, viz ,
I Prize*of 5000 dollanii dollars 5000
I 1000 1000
i SCO 500 j
j 100 lOCO
40 100 1000
99 jo 4950
. JOO J 000
'J loco 10 10.QC0
5 Lafl drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000
° f
1 2332 Prizes, 4-;>4Jo .
> 4018 Blanks.
c r I 6 ;5o Tickets at Seven Dojlr.rt cach, 44,450
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftablifh
he ing Weful Mtnftfafiuref, the fuperintendants of the Pat
n erfon Lottery have requeftcd the Managers to offer the
n ' m | forcgoiri e Scheme to the public, and have dira&ed them
to-rcioiid the money to thofc pgrfons who have purehafed
in the former Lottery, or exchange the sifkets for tickets
n this Lottery.
Pae lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
— may be feci: at the office of William Blackburn, Nto. 64
south Second llreet, who will give information where tick
ets may b« procured. 1
Dated tin 17th day of June, 1796.
t y. 2v- cum mm,
' JACOB R. HARDEN3ERG,> Managers!
■JONATHAN RHEA, >
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
1 Prize of 5000 ... 5000 |
1 1000 - * * 1000 1
I s®o ... 500 j
5 200 . t - - I«C0 ;
20 100 - « 1003 j
90 50 ... 4500;
165 15 - - - 4i*j I
The five last drawn tickets, 1000 e.ch, 5000 .
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full proper- ;
tion of the ro dollars. I
As the Lottery is considerably wore than o«?e third
drawn, the value cf tha undrawn tickets is great
ly increaled, and it is worth the notice of thole
who hold tickets in th.old ilheme, that they cau ex
change t«hcir tickets for thole in the above, if thoy ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance confidcrin;; the !
now real value of an undrawn ticker.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in ,
future will be oftener, -and the Lottery soon finifhed. 1
November sz. _ tows
f By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
nsy ,
Tot Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Second-jirtet.
P"- _ J
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
in„ f For raiilig Sixty Thoufaod Dollars, ajreiably to an Afl ot
n l the Legitlature of PennfyKaiia, palled dining the lafl
leflion, for bailduij? a -Stone Uri.igr over the Rivet
•„ Schuylkill, at the Borough of Re»dir.g, in ihc County of
' Be.ks. Dollars.
J' X Pri/C of 20 000 Dollars - a O,OOO
1 do. of 10,000 do. • - 10,000
P 3 do. of 5,000 do. - 15,000
)na 4 do, of 2»oO0 d'X - - 3,0c0
n * 20 do. of 1,000 do. 20,000
are 3Q do, of 560 '10. - . i
' a 7 8 80 do. of 200 Jo. - - i6,0c0
inte aoo do. of 100 do. - 20,000
tho 300 do. of $0 do. - - 15,000
irds 1 do. ok- $00 do. to be paid the poflfef- '
•fctle lor ef. the ftri'i drawn no. £
aw- « do* of 3,000 do. to he paid poflcilors )
of the five iall drawn nos J 1 '
9,400 do. o 15 do. : - 141,000
«mk ——
. a . 10,054 Prizes 300,000
10,046 Hlauks -* ■■■ —
lt » 30,000 Tickcts at Ten Dollar* 300,000
V AH Pr\rr» fli3U be paid fifteen davs >fter the dr«< wing 15
fiuilhcd, upon the demand of a poifeflo* of a fprtu.°..i:e
1 ticket, ftifejfd to a deduift-on of twenty per cenf. The
Drawing will commence as soon as the Ticket* are difpofrd
of, or perhaps fooncr. of wlvich pnblic notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William IVUman %
v ets Hi Z' hr > !7"mes Dismer, Thomas Dundas*
the James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Grarjf,
and SelajUan Miller, Commissioners.
lof Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
ibl«. Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, to be had at the
above office, where the earli«fl information of the draw
; of ing of the Washington No. 2, and Patterfon Lottery's,
ton : are received, and chcck books for examination and regif
ells' teririgare kept.
O <sober 7. aavvtf
I,e Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pup!! of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentist to the
King and Royal Family of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris,
Keeps a complete aflortment of eveiy thing necessary
to be used for the
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minora! Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate j exeellent Elixir for
fwcctening the momh and preserving the teeth —he
also furnifhes Brnfhes and foft Spinges.
*„* He lives in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, abort
Fourth-flraet.
November t6. tts
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM* M'DOUG ALL will open hiufchool on Mon
day the 31ft mil. at ten o'clock in :he morning, at hU
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Street®.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock
on Mondays, Wedncfday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings •
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new cotillioas, he mean# bo
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firft pra&ifmg ball to be on Tuesday ©-
venin£, the finl of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
For terms, &c,°enquire at his house, N#.134, Market*
street.
OA. If. tthf
A Mannfa&ory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory,, ftluate
in a convenient part of the city ; the work* almost* new,
on an entirely original cotiftru€Hr>n, and built of the best
materials, and may be ftt to work immediately. Peripnt
whowilhto purchase, are rcqucfted to apply at No. 273,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f tfr
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY from the fubferiber on the 23d O&obor,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES; 21 yean
old;'about 5 feet 8 inches high; had on a r.ii*tfd grean
coat, with a green velvet cape and oral yellow buttons;
a striped ve:t; a pair of dark Ipotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been actuftomed re driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will Se
paid for securing him so that the fubferiber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins CJiambcriaine.
F.ifton, Maryland, Nov. to. I4(jmiawtf
Samuel Richardet
T> ES?ECTFULLY Informs tire Gentler*™
Merchants, that he lias this day opened the CI TV
TAVERN and MIi&CH ANTS 0 OFI'EE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia:
The Subfcriprton Room W?H be furniftied with all tfm
daily papers publifbed in Philadelphia, Nsw-Yorfc, Bcf
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the com
mercial ci:i«s of Europe—They will he r<fg|klarly filed
and none permittsd to be taken away on any account.
. Tea, Coffee, Soup Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
1 of French Liqn'ors; together with the usual refrefhmeuts,
* will at ail times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
| the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mofl
5 approved Malt Liquors lror.iLondon and oth-rr breweries.
* The Larder will be sUpplied with the prime and earing
•produ£iom» cf the Season. /
Large and small Parties, or tingle Gentlemen, may be
accomn-Qdated with BreaHafts, Dinners, er Suppers, at
} fioiirsmoft convenient to thcmfelves—a cold Collation it
' regularly kept for convoniency, th« Fare to be had
at the- bur.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
5 I the utmoii attention paid to cieanlinefs, and every other
I requisite.
D ' Igj Samuel Riciiardet will behappy to receive, and
3 | vxecute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
j krge; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledge*
5 j himfelf that nothing on his part ihall be Wanting to pre
-5 ' serVe that patronage with which he has been so diftinguiiii*
| ingly honored.
0 ; l*hfladflyvhia, April TO- mwf
1 . Treasury Department,
September *8, 179 6.
e XTOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re-
X N ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration Qf the firft day of March next en
~ \ suing, for the supply of. all rations which may he required
C i Tor the use of the States, from the lirft day of
June, 1797, to the jhirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days iricjufive, at the places and within the diftrl&s hwre
! - after mentioned, viz. At Qfwego; zt Niagara ; atr
Pjcfque Isle; at Saw'trflcy Lake, and on Samluiky
River; at-Detroit; at Michilimackioac; at Fort ■ "frank*
lm; *t Kttiburgh i ut Cincinnati; at Fovt-HaraikoH fc
at Frv. St. Clair; at Fort-Jsffcrfon; at Grenville; at
Picquc Town and Loramics Store; at Fort Adams; nt
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any piece b«dow Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
oteub'-n ; at Fort MaHac ; at any pla«e from Fort Msjffac
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
MitTiftppl; at Fort Knos ; at Ouiatanon.
If ft;j»piies frail be required for any posts ©r places not
Q f mentioned in this notice, all such fuppiies ihall be fur
,{( 1 Jiilhccl at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
er I posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
of between the United States and the Co»tra(ftcr.
s. The rations to be fiipplied are to consist of sol«
>0 lowing articles, viz.
jo One pound two ounces cf bread or flour.
One pound two ounc« of beef, or fourteen ounces o{
pork or bacon.
■° Half a gill of rum, brandy or whilkey.
One quart and half a pint of fait.")
Two quarts of Vincear, ( , , .
£ Two pound, of So»p, ( P er hund " J
Ore pound of Candles, J
:0 Thfrrtti.uif,are to be lurnifhed inf«ch qiwntitiei, as that
(hi»re fliali at nil times during the said term, he fmfieient
)0 for the cosloiaptionof the troops nt Miehilimackinae, Dc
,o troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month* in
_ idvance, and at eaeh of the other pods, for the term of
so at leall three months in advance, in good and wholedoma
— provisions, if the fame (hail be required. It is to he tm-
Jerflood, that the Contractor is to (he e.fsnce and
:o rifle of ifluirgthe f*pTi!iss to the troops nteach po£l, and
15 that all lofTes sustained by thi depredation* of an enemy,\pr
::c by means of the troops of the United States, (hsil he pak{
for at the pricc of the articks captured or deilioysd, e.-t
r u the depositions of two or naorc persons of creditable civi
racers, and the of a coinmiflioncd oJhcrr, sf-
n > certajning the circumstances of the lot, and the amount
ts. of thiiiiticies for which compensation {hall be claimed
j OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Seoretary of the 1 reafary.
he - '
f PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
if' 119 —
CHE SNUT-STR E E T.
[Pricc Fight Dollars psr Annum.]