I ;
#a?Ctte of the tEtlifttS plates, 6- Philadelphia Dally Advertiser. s
Numfex 128 *.1 WEDNESDAr EVENING, OCTOBER 19, 1796. {Volume X.
—— * — —
For Sale, Freight, or Charter,
The Brig ZEP HY R,
This vrfT.l'u ibour'J «ear" Hinrrh,
wril found, has decks, and is
bunheneJ about i»cj barrels: Ivin;; at firft wharf below
Crcf, ui-Oreet. If not fold or chartered on or before the
aotli iKltani, (be will like freight for Norfolk. For
anolv t» the captain on board, or to
PP ' . . BRECK, iun-
No. 8q fsath Third-street..
22 hhds. New,. England RUM,
May be hid on board veflel.
K-.ilad. OSober 14, 1794. d6t
For Portsmouth, New-Hampshire,
- The Schooner Ll/CT,
Dcniel Prowfe, mailer; will fail in
fc P&jS?, the course of a week, and take freight
tl on moderate term?, for which, or
\i-' passage, apply on hoard, or to
Joseph Anthony, Iff Co.
Otfober 15. dx
For Sale,, -
The brig FAIR AMERICAN, I
" Richard Caliey,
AN entire new veflel, and well finiflied
f buih at Newbury-port, (N* E.) her plank {
r=L> - • and timbers whife oak : Sails well, and <
is completely fitted—her dimennon* are 57 feet keel, strait ;
rabbit—e*2 feet h«am—B 8 inchcs hold, and *4 1-2
between decks. Shjr is now discharging spars, near the j
StiH-honfe wharf. Southwark, an i if not disposed of
a few days will be fold at public sale at the City-Tavern, (
evening of the 13th Lnft Apply to | i
5 South Water Street.
lothmo, loth. — — _ dltr. |
— — —■—■ ———
The Brig MARr,
Lying at Messrs. Willing. and Francis's
•wharf,burthen »000 barrels, bnilt in Philadelphia in 1793 f
of live oak and led cedar.—She is well found, and nvay x
* fce sent to sea at a fmaU expenct For terms apply to j
G urney & Smith. c
oa. 6. dtf. t
C
j ; FOR LONDON, r
The capital ship CERES, „
To fail foen :—For freight or passage f<
" DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
"John Vaughan, ai
September 10. Front-street. <■'
' or Charter, li
The DaniQi Barque Binftentura j j"
riu I,S ?' r §SS > Samuel Stub, master, r(
f" * " " - S A gsod—CaflH. of *"V.'o hnnHr-C tr
tons burthen. T®
Sept. 17. dtf M
ah
Jr; t*or Charter, *
{gStiS : *§V "The Ship Dominick Terry, fti
-- :V-' jn.cob De Hart, master : an excellent
vessel, of about 300© barrels burthen. 1 ®
Jefe Robert Wain. £
September sr. d ; R
Benjamin and Jacob Johnson, p c
No. 147, Market-street,
Have received by the last arrivals from Liverpool and
Hull,
A very generalaffortment of DRT GOODS, ~ jt
Weil suited to the approaching frafon, which they will JJ
fell on the leweft terms by the piece or package.
OA(»beri4. taw4w d c
Boarding and Lodging
du
Two GENTLEMEN may be accommoda'ed with 10
Boarding and Lodging, in a private family and pleasant * l "
part of Apply to the Printer of the Gazette of
the United State?. ~
QAnhrr XT tt&stf ' ]
Washington Lottery.
on
* The Twenty-eighth & Twenty-ninth days' drawing of re(
the Lottery, No. a, are received at the office
No. 234, Market-street, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other 1
lotteries may be procured.
O&ober 13, 1796. d 'P
For Sale, (
30 Hogftieads of choice New-England
Rum,
Landing fremthe schooner John, at Vanuxem's wharf.
For t>?r.nß apply to No. 71, North Water Street, at th;
head of the wharf. ]
v dtf.
Sales of India Goods. rcc
The Cargo «f the Ihip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal- ro
cutta and Bengal,
COKSISTIN'G OF
A Large and general affortmeot of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Mufi.ins,
Dorcas, Ufc. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
!n boxes 2nd bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings Sff Francis,
No. a 1 Penn Street.
June % §
Wanted to Rent,
A convenient, -jnell furnijhed Bed Chamber, 77.
With a g'-rc firc-place, in an airy and healthy part of
the city. The per for wlia wants to rent fnch a chamber,
would HiVr ne objeiiion to board, or break fall only, with £
the faiaily occupying the house, as may be mod agreeable, to
Apply to th' printer.. t }, e
Stp;err,b« 29. taw S
For Sale,
This day Landing from on board ibe 'Jbip Cencord,
Captain Tbompfon, from Amfierdam^
Gin, ia pipes
Empty Gin Cases
~J Hock in caf«s of 4 do*.
Glass Tumbler?
Sweet Oil in cafe>
Parte Graffe Chetfe .
Jhfo I.an din %by tre l.ovvfa-, Cap*. Bsll, frCm Lijhon,
t, 60 LSfbcn \» inc.
On Hand,
A quantity of Brandy, Hazle-Nuts in sacks, &c.
Peter Blight.
Oifcober 17. daw eo2w
This Day is Published,
Br William Cobl)»tt, opposite Chr : ft-Church,
!n An Answer to Paine's Rights of Man,
? " By R. Makenzie, Esq. of Edinburgh.
To which is added,
A Letter to Citizen Swanwick,
By Peter Porcupine.
The whole is dedicated to Do&or Joseph Priestley,
Fello*- of the Royal Society of London, Citizen of
America, and Deputy to the National Conven-
N, tion of France.
OA. 18. |
led The Subscriber requests every Man
ink to whom he (lands indebted, to meet at the City -TaveAi
and on Thartdey afternoon, at fobr o'clock, precisely,
rait as he would wish, in the course of the evening, t# con
-1-2 yince every i.HPARTiAt man he means to do him flrifi
the justice. He will pcrivnally attend and bring his books
*** with hirn, and be prepared to make such proposals to his
rn, creditors, as »*ill, he hopes flatter? himfelf, be satis- j
fe£ory. GEORGE MEADE.
Plaiad. 14th OSaber, ifyt.
On Sa.urday, the 22nd instant, at 6 o'clock in the
- evening, will be fold by Public Vendue, at the City
Tavern, (if not before disposed of at private sale)
An Elegant House, No. 78, r
"InutJlreet;
, HICH is twenty-five feet iront by one hundred and
v seventy-one feet deep, with a lot adjoining, zo 1-2 feet
Wlde fa y 72 feet 8 inches deep—(Thiy lot is back of the -
house occupied by George Willing, Esq.) The house is
completely tinifhed in every It is fifty feet deep,
has two large parlours, the front one 24 feet, the back
o°* si feet by 18 i-ifeet; a handsome drawing-room
24 l-z icet ly 24 feet. The rooms below, thedrawing
room and chambers adjoining, have mahogany doois,
and t..cfe, as well as the rooms above them, hsve a com
municate with each other. The heighth in ihe fir:t a»d
ge fecocd stories is twelve feet, and havefloco cornices, and
pj. nine rooms up-ftairs besides the gatrets, which are divid
ed into three rooms: a good kitchen, waft-houfe, milk "
bathiag-hcufes, a large ice-house, a pump in the yard,
and a three leet three inch alley that leads into FoJrtfc
,l , pilars are laid with lime, and floored with
two inch plank, and plastered. The yard is well paved
and the house is clear of ground-rent. Two brick ftablcs
jn Wamut-ftreet, with two coach-houses, one of th.na.wiil
hold twe carnages the other one. The fniallefl stable has
room for three, the lar s eft for four horses.' It-i, 2, fen "
iront or. ilflut-llrecL bv «o 7 inrh#»»- As r> * in.
uave exceuent Jdts over th\m~TEe k arefcd ~Q
asd laid with lime and two inch plank, and will hold
- ut on f hundred pipes of wine ;is clear of ground- ,
rmt. aed ha. the pnvi'ege of an n and 1-2 feet aUey „
tnat leads mto Fifth-ftreet. v
Also, a latge, iirick Store, 33 feet front on Fourth- t
street, by JO feet deep, wbich might, atafmaU exper.ee, „
lt be turned m.to a handsome dwelling house, hiving been ?
f. contrived a the buiirting. It has a yard, 48 feet 6
, , -CC P' b y 14 fcet w, de ; has a rain water pump, f,
andl other convenience., and the cellar is hid with two S
is now rented at 40 dollar. r er month, f
I h.s building is fubjed te a ground-rent of 11 3-4 dollars J
P" r an " um - Purchaser. before the sale may applv to I
the fubfcribcr, GEORGE MEADE, ?'
d r A' ■ °/ r R PQOTMAN, & Co. Auctioneer.' 6t
Condi-,ons of sale are—on the House and Lot in Walnut- }
Steet 163. pounds on mortgage to be paid, this sum upon ° f
11 -"I7 g c 'T rt " may lay for one yar ccruin,
wd lor a further time on the parties arreting.
4800 Pounds .u the fiift .f Augufl, t , 9J; tbr nmi „.
der ot ihe purehate money will be uken in aopioved indor
sed notes at 6, 9, and ia months.
On the Store in Founh-ltreei, ten (hillings,
cue7m November 1796 ; the remainder in approved indoiicd
h notes at 6 9 and 12 m.mhs, with icc ur ity OQ the premises
II ;1 the j whole is paid, r
I 1 October 14.
« T i h . e J^ ltlb t l ! S .. of th * Socict y of t h e Sons of St. George
- Ivk," " Ph .'' a,i ; ! phia, for the advice ani affiaancc of In
Englishmen in di Jrefs, are requested to attend a quarterlv
meeting of the said Society on Monday the 24th inft. at
one o clock P. M. at the City Tavern.-The member, are
f requested to be punctual m their attcndairce, as the rule,
e and regulations of the Society are to be considered.
_n , „ . A - Humphreys, Sec'ry.
r oa. 14, if 96. JJ
Ihe Cargo of the Polacre Independent, cu
/CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif-
V>< oon, fancing at th« fubferibers wh jrf— U
28 Pipes of Brandy 1
v 18 Bales of Spamlh wool
3 do. of Anr.ileed
7000 Bulhels of belt Lisbon Silt
: 80 Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS. h °
also, fir
Seventy Hogftieads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
. froTffinX e . ftipDOrainiCkTerry ' Cipt - DeHart >
s i? ! - !.>• d
s Just Imported,
9 Tin Plates in boxes
Sheet and bar Lead
Shot—all sizes, patent and common 1
Copper bottoms and fiieets
EngliCi lhoes and boots in cafe.
Taunton Ale in calks of 10 dez. each
Balket Salt Bu
Wool Ca,ds res
Gold Watches.
For Sale by
n „ r Simon Walkefl
7 : n^ frm Dock-ftr,et.
For Salej Pr
By J. WARDER, PARKER fcf Co. cl
An Invoice of Cordage sh '
to C^Z g f- d s Cren f t i 4l "' from ' 1 i«h cables down
°? e ° f ?■ ln =h«, of different lengths: Imr .r'ed in
Sept P l- HUI1 ' and c:titied t0 d."av.\j2ck. Co
Just Landing,
J, At Soith firt'e't-wharf, from on hoard the [hip Scdg
let, Cnfitmn Hodge, from St. Pelzrjburg,
The following Goods :
Roiii Slil Dack, firft quality. .
Do. Sheeting do.
Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
n po Crl{h.
' Do. Mould Candles, 4 T 5 and 6, te the ib. of the
Engftlh size.
Do. White Candle Tallow. t
Do- White Socp in small boxes.
Do. Cordage cf fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
lfinglafs ill and and fort.
Horfs Hair uncurled. »
RuiTia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Petersburg Clean Hemp;
For Sale by
Philips, Crantond, Sc Cd.
j, Oflober n.i I
t SAIL CLOTH.
_ On Monday, the 31ft injl. will be Sold
n at Public Sale, at the Store of Ivteffrs. \
'n George Hunter Is? Co. No. 153, Pearl
j' flrect, Nezv-York,
& 275 Pieces of the Belt
" Englilh Weft Country Sail Cloth,
By some pirfons called East Coken, a*d by others
V, eft Coken.—lt i. of known excellency: wears
white, and daes not mildew.
Oflober 18 dt29th
J To be Sold, ~
The Time of a smart, active Negro Lad^
Who has Eleven years to fcr\e.
d • Enquire at No. 58, South Front-flreet.
t Oflober 18. ij
e — —
5 For Sale,
' Carolina Rice in whole and half tierces, (
Cotton of Cayenne ?.nd Trinidad,
Soal Leather, entitled to drawback,
Boston Bref, and
' Mould and dipt candles.—Apply to
1 ■ Isaac Harvey, jun.
i No. 5, South Watcr-flreet.
iothmo.T*. dj w.
For Sale,
By Jehu Holl ngfivorthy & Co.
25 fchdt. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
j Barrels bed Indigo, and,
i A few thoafand buiheli of Turk's lfland fait.
, o<a. 17. a.
- I N G,
Jut of different •vejjch from England, and for Jule
ly the fubjcrilers cn reasonable terms,
Supeifine 2nd common cloths, and catlim:rs
Ribbed and striped do. do.
Blankets , mottled green and C!k rugs. (
Superfine blue, Claret,'ar.d cemmoii coatings, ]
1 Kerfevs, Bear-Ik ins, plains and Halftnicks,
Sn anlkins, Serges and Fiaßaels,
Britith Ingrain Carpeting,
Hatsaflorted in cases cf 12 doz. each.
Chocolate chintzes, printed Cailicow and Handkerchiefs, d
?carlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail, ,
Yarn, Woriicd, and-Cotton hofierv, n
Beavers, Thickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. &c. i
6d. Bd. 12d. lod. nails, and frying pans,
1 AnafTortrncnt of Ironmongerry. Cutlery and a variety 3
of India cotton, and silk c
Thomas & Jcjhua Fisher. v
No. 5, Dock-fttreet. 11
Also by the Glasgow from Dublin, c
t-8 and 4-4 Irilh Linens affortedin boxes of 30 pieces,
do. Brown, Glazed Lißnen.
Oft- 17- dtf. I v
For Sale, 'f 1
50,000 Wt. Black Pepper, and a quan- I
tity of Mace, Nutmegs and Clove 3, t
Imported in the brig Mary, from Batavia, and entitled J
to the drawback. Apply to
John Wilcocks, c
South Wharves, adjoining Ton Alley. r>
Who,has It I.et, .<
That spacious and <ron\*enicnt, three*ory, Brick n
HOUSE, Nos. 59 ,-.nd 61 South Water-iilfeet, latelyV 1
occupied by Isaac Hazltl unl, Esq. and cal- j
cu.ated fcr the accomraodation. cf a dry goott nner- J'
chant in an extensive line. Also, fevcral excellent 11
Warehoijfes adjoining. , ft
O(<V d 6 ti
Madeira Wine. <
A few pipes of Madeira Wine, landing from on D
board the schooner Lucy, Capt. Prow;, at Chefnut- - t
11 feet wharf, and for sale by fhc fubferiber.
Robert Andrews,
Oa.T 4 . mwf Nn. 86, So. Wharves p
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
Have received per the William Pcnn, in addition to V "
their own aiTor ment, 81
A consignment of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele- e '
gant London patterns ; also a few cases of bandfome 31
Buttons—Which will be fold at a (hort credit, on very P
by the package only. t<
° & • 14 dtf ft
F O R SA L E, t!
By N. and J. FRAZIER, "
n • ~ No - 95> s - Front-street, ~
Prime Boacm Beef, in barrels.
Georgia Cotton. 11
Carolina Rice and Indigo. it
Sherry and I enenffe Wines, of etcelitHt quality. P
Ravens Duck. i h
Indio Basdanno's.
Sewing Silk«, various toiovrs 3
CofTahs ari Gurrahs. '1
' . »U4W. J
From the (BaltimoreJ Fedsral G.izhtts.
'v. Extrafl of a letter from a gentleman of this towrt •
(now in Paris) to his fiiend here, dated
22d, 1796.
" ! confefs I like France wonderfully, particu
larly Paris—althuugh it must be allowed that here
the moral duties, such as religion, chastity, &c. _
are laughed at. Amusement and present enjoy
ment is fought after by all ranks and ages—never*
tbelet-s, jUMMtgft ihc c;c>vd. ch-raiiers of realjter*
ling value may be frequently met with—and certain*
ly the infinite variety of entertainments, by which
time may be eaf;ly and innocently enjoyed, lecon
ciles one fhortiy, perhaps too foou, to the abfencc
of those mote futeran duties, which educttion l.ja
fixed in the mind. Religion, 'tis true, is no more I
ehaflity is tare ! honefly is divided by felf-intrreil J
—all that remains of the fit ft is fixed internally,
but externally destroyed 1 the fecend may be found,
but the public practice of it, even in appcarance,
j would be ridiculous, because the triumph of nature
I is conCdertd as that of reaf,n —and difhonetly is
- every where guarded by cunning or pru
j dence. The absence then of thrfe virtues is not
I looked upon as injurious to society, and on the o
ther hand every creature being in pursuit of what
; conftttutes individual happiness, it becomes a mat-
S ' ter of 11s concern to others, what rhay btT my pur
j suits, nnlefs fef intereji may be affectejj. Go
where you will, all appear happy and contented
(politics cut o"f the quetiion.)
" There are eighteen theatres, every une of
them crouded each night >n the week, «nc forae of
rs them contain 10, coo fouls-;— The publi gardens
trs and walks are innumerable,, and never empty.
— Fire-works, concerts, public balls jkh rt>u
will fee the African dance with the European, .sinl
the natives of Asia, with those of America : in
short, where'every creature is upon an equal fout-
J ing) are every night, and almost every where—
Conceive a walk surrounding the inner part of this
gn'at city : that is, a circle far within its outer li
mits, that goes diredtly round, except where it is
~ cut oft by the river, above and below ; without
it are streets without number, within it, the tcoft
populous part of Paris; this fireet then, with a
tow of trees en each fide, and a walk between them
and the houses, may be about ten mil.s round >
neveithelefs, every evening the old, painted rnojl
ridiculously, the young, n»JI lamentably—men, wo
men and children here assemble ; chairs innumera
ble are placed, and this imtntnfe walk may be tin*
~ dertaken with males ana females, seated promiscu
ously on both fides so» the whole distance t—-Seated
all the world, and Paris with all its slinks, and
God inowt it is filthy enough, is the place maugre
all its imperfe&ions, which (lands superior to all
others under -heaven, if there was no other thing 1
_ to make it so, but the fi»g!e entertainment &f M the
gallery of paiiJiings." which it 570 yards tn length
-BTO-rorttinrraTlic mvris.l, ni th« .lublcft painiei. ti 3
world ever produced, feteftcd from every country
into which Freach fuecefa iias penetrated—-Here o
very llranger is permitted to enter whenever he
pleases."
Extract of another letter from a gentleman of thiV
town, now at Paris, to his friend here, dated
23d July, 1796.
" The rapid fuccefles of the republic absolutely
5. dazzles the imagination, and would be held roman
tic, if related to have happened in former times.—»
, The brilliant exploits of Buonaparte, for rapidity,
iar exceed the memorable actions related of Aiex
y ander. This young commander lias the glory of
conquering Italy, in less time than a coniioiflcuf
would take in examining its Curiosities j and 111 a
(hort time, the extensive gallery of paintings will
contain innumerable testimonies to posterity, of
s ' every work of art, feut by him from the cities,
where he planted in theirflead, the standard of the
- republic. The emperor is efchaulted, and it is even
laid that he is btcome melancholy. It is certain
amhafTadors arrived here from Get many the dav be 1 "
fore yefteiday. I have it from refpetiable authori
ty, that their fir ft audience to»k place yefterday.—~
d They were introduced into the hall 01 the directory
—They were received with tiie utmost llernnefs.—
Carnot was the organ of his compeers—" This pa
ir- pet," said he, presenting it to the ambassadors,
" contains the terms upon which we are willing t<j
~ make peace : from them we will never recede, un«
I* less obliged to do it on our knees. The meeting is
r . added he ; and without deigning to speak
, t another word, the directory retired. Methinks i
iee the alionifhed princes (for to be Jure they are no
thing less) of the most Holy Empire too.—-Ny doubt
j 'he belt orator among '-.em wu- prepared to flaakc
a long speech ; !>ut, alas ! how are the mighty call
down ! the crelt fallen Auftrians mult bow to re
-71 publican ftemuefs, and accept 01 such conditions as
it ihjll please them to uffci I b ieve t Here is much
di!TatisfaCtiu» however leigning a prefest at Paris,
3 will it lurprife trie to witnel'sa fpe. iy ex- olion.
Rumors of frefh plots are every hour in circulatioa f
anonymeus papers are conilaiitly handing about
Lafl night tneie were thoirfands diiliibuted, calling
upon the people to rouse themselves, and meet its
various places to form afTocialions. The executive
0 are very strong, and the military guard will, when
ever fix or eight people assemble together, mterpofc
e am] disperse there : this I have been a witr.efs of.
y Perhaps nothing is more alarming than the difcoa
tents of the soldiery. The government itfelf is
_ fupparted by military force ; nevertheless, one of
the encampments in the vicinity of the city lately
mutinied, in canfequence of their p;y beiiy, made
in rnandats, now at 96 per cent, discount. and for
which no eatable can be procured. This body of
men were instantly removed to affother place ; buc
it is new said their fucceSurs exhibit the fame dif.
petition. Buonaparte is recalled, and Hoche, who
has so fortunately terminated the internal war, waft
appointed in in his roam. This was ir.tei ded whea
the former accepted the command : but it is £ajd
the cirediory thinks Buonaparte too mucu the fr ad
Jt. Talieo."f r
Philadelphia, O&ober 19.
Latest Foreign Intelligence.
By the James, Copklin, at Ncv/-York
from London, in 19 days, we have
English papers to Sept. 10. Selec
tions follow.
LONDON, September 7.
By the dispatches received from Mr. Hiroir.ond, we
leirn, that his million has failed in toto ; the king of
IVuilia. having Hot only rejected the proposal made to
him 4>y our court, which went to guarantee to him
certain very important territories and a tta-p»rt, but
received Mr. Hammond in the mojt 1:1.1 mur 1
This is an insult not to be wondered at, after submitting
to such an humiliation, as to apply to that very powir
which deceived us, broke faith with us, and cheated
us of our money.
The object of Mr. Hammond's million isfaid to been
'Vtvo-fbld: firft, to aftertiin the final dete min.ition of
the l'rench poveniment on the conditions of peace
and secondly, if that determination Ihould prove to be
such as to render the continuation of the war inevita
ble, to detach the Prufiian monarch from hi? alliance
with the French, and to induce nim to rejoin that con
federacy which he w*s the firft to eftablilh, and the
firft to clelert. In both these points,-Mr. Hammond has
completely failed ; and the failure has jullified the ap
prehensions of thof : who were capable of forming any
judgment of the present slate of contiaental affairs.
Some of our politicians are now convinced of what
they ought to have seen long ag«, that the royal plan- !
derer of Poland is determined to take every possible ad
vantage of the ? empcror's diftrefled situation. The
petty Hates too, at least as many as are within his power
will foot! participate in the blessings of his pater iul care
and afteifhbn.
The demands of the French diredtory, as communi
cated through nur late faithful ally, are laid to be such
as might be expcifled through such a channel, tn fa<sl,
the- go c'early to provecnepf two things—either that
PrullVa is not the channel by which negociations at all
JionoOrJble tr. this country can be carried on ; or, that
that the direflory w ill hot, through any foreign medi
um, treat with our present miniitry. We pretend ivit
to determine wfcich of these i< the facSl.
Mr. Hammond, after fending the meflen
ger, to Vienna, with the result of his conferences at the
court of Prussia, is himfelf on his return to Loudon,
and may be daily expelled.
The emperor, we are told, is determined to defend
his dominif>» .ro the last. It is natural he fhou'd do so ;
but it is conlidently reported, that he has no intention
to carry or) the war any lon'ger ; that he now labours to
givepeaceto his dominions by a treaty with the French j
and that, if nothing unforefeen retard the negociati
ons, a peace between these two powers will be cun
eluded before tb| end of next month.
William Swift, a man of 93 years ps ag_e, was late
ly committed to the house of corre&ion, at York, in
order to take his trial at the next feffiois, for aflaulting,
with intent to ravijb, three girls, the eldcft of whom is
not twelve years old.
The emoluments of the offices held by the late earl
of Maisfield, amounted to upwards of 19,0001. per
eifn. We do not complain that the moftof them were
.jinecure places • every man ought to have places suited
tn his abilities, and if Mr, Pitt has provided for many
of his friends in this way, it ia a proof that tie knows
exailly what they are fit for. <
A baker was on Monday conri&ed in the penalty of
jcfl. on 4ounces o brail ia
-Two tei'y Cocknies, who are about leaving town for
the fpo' ting season, actually bought two Bull-Dogs for
f pointer!!, at a (hop in Holborn, last week
One of the most firople and ufefnl difceveri'es in
Agriculture, comprehending pasturage, is to mix
green, or new cut clover, with layeis »f lfr&w,in ricks
'!»and {lacks. Thus the sap and strength of the clover
is absorbed by the 'straw, which, thus impregnated,
both horses and cattle eat greedily ; shd thus the clover
is dried, and prevented from heating. This pra&ice
15 particularly calculated for fccoftd crops of clover, or
clover and rye-grass.
A ICH A, (in Bav Aug. 15.
11 The head-quarters of the archduke Charles are this day
arrived at Sirigmjen, nar Neubourg, on the Danube- We
are allured that the Austrian arrtiy will occupy an Intrench
ed camp near Ratifb»n, whirber the 'French threaten to pene
trate."
STUTGARD, Augolt ai.
« We have n» authentia news from the arihy of genersl
Mcreau ; we only know, that the d vilior of the right, under
general Ferinot, has made grest progref. towards Augftourg.
In the last affairs wSiich took place between the »»th and
14th, this general took upwards of 32 pieces of cannon, ac
cording to the repurt of persons arrived from Ulm.
" Tne pealants who had atmtd themfclves in the environs
ef Bregenz and Lindan, iri imitation of those in Tyrol, dif
ptrfed at the approach of the French, and Returned to their
homes, very glad to ,;et off so cheaply.
t; There are hardly any more FrencKiheft at Lindau ; the
corps that;captured that city advances, without obstacle, a
gainst Fluff and the out-pofts are even reported to have
reached iht 4 H defiles of Tyrol.
*■ The aimv under the command of the Austrian general
Wolf retreat 10 Wrlheisn, Murrau, and 'Vir'enklrcn."
PAR 1, S.
The executive dire£lery sent the iol! ii». meffige on the
ft-!njrcl of the finances to the council of five hundred, on the
6th Fru&ioor («ug. *3 )
" Citizens Legislators,
'• 1 he directory can no longer conccal from voti the afflic
ting particulars which they receive from ail quarters, ol the
filfcion of the troops, spread ofer the interior ol the re
public.
" For several months pall their conflancy has been put to 1
the proof by the rrtoft paintul pri\ ations ; and while they have/
deplored their distress, the dirt£lory have more than once ad
mired the rr'fignation with which the French soldiers know
how to forgot their wants, when those of the country ale re
called to their minds.
" So long as the directory could flatter themfelvei with the
profpeflof amelioration of the finances, which could put an
«nd to a situation so critical, ihey fuflaintd the couragc of the
troepsby hope, ana lludiouflv concealed their alarms; but
- the evils have become too great to he any longer disguised ;
and however painlu' this revelation m«y be, it is no longer
neflible to wiiliotd it. The present alarming circumllances
demand it.
»' T he pay of the troops, that facied debt «f the republic
to theei: zens who devote their lives to her service, has not
V»een di^harj;ed for ftA.ra' mouths ; nntwithllai>diug*be4e>li-
citftions ofthegoveinmentj the trcafufy could not afford the
necefury Supply—il had tot the means.
" /li to.aie (nfpended from tte inability of the
pubiic treasury 10 fulfil tlicir engagements ; the supplies of
provisions arc exhaufied, and not a hope of recruiting tbrm
ie»airs; in almost every pan they have been obliged to have
jecourie :o lequifif ons; but this rt.rafure, the employment of
«hich is taial, fopplied v« ry inefficient r*.
fiiuices ; and it is psiticulaih dangero»s in those deplnments,
in which civil war has made such lavages as will require a
longtime to rt p is."
j F . several pprt* of the republic the fubfi.lence of the
tre op? has hern txpofed 10 failu'e, . hcdiflriLuiion has ai C-
Iv been made in the jnoprnion determined by the law, and
has often in-in wholly fnpprtired for several day?; the no*-
Tiiltment «.i the noops, wi.eii moving frtni place to place,
which huheiro has only bteii lujiported by the Advances
made by persons in power, is on tlic point of failing in all
t,he lief ,T. tails. Lastly, and this confeffion is the maj af
■fiiilirg to she dire&ory to make, iu feveial wf ibe Hofj|^^
they Juve l>cet»obliged to rcfuTc the Tick soldier the bod that
wai neccflary for the ie-efl.abiifhm.int of his healih.
4< Discouraged by the diforgaoizuion of all pans of the
fervicc, the agent* abandon their yofts, to ci'cape the nume
rous compla ; nts thai are preferred, and which they are unable
to answer. In many place 3, money defined for otler pur
poles, hat been taken by force from tiie public-chest. to lup
ply the wants of the troops, and iWe iflagal proceedings
have found in the imperious law of teceflitv.
Every day couriers arrive to bring to the dirt&ory aid 10 the
War Minifterthe news of iome new calamity or rhe dread of
some new danger.
" )he directory conjure y6u,c itizens reprefentitives, to
fix ydtir whole attention on the affli&ing pidure which thev
now present to -you, -and to devifc lome mean* for supplying
the public treasury with the nectllafy refouices (or the fubfif
trnceof the tr 'Opttl* the interior : the most ri<>id tie ortdmy
rhali be- f'u the expenditnre of such funds, nid the
reform# which the directory are preparing, wiil loon cfcftTinilh
the expences and the demands.
u The armies which are out of France, nomifbtd \y vic -
tory, uo longer occupy the thought* ol the government, ex
cept by the recitai of their fucrtfie* all their solicitude then
mud be di.rested to the troops nf the interior, who have claims
equally trrong on the gratitude of the country, and who can
only obtain from tb£ country the relid which (be owes to
her deienders.
•< REVELLIERE-LEPAtJX, P.efident,
44 LEGARDE, .Secte^ly-Gelleral.* ,
CAMBRIDGE, Augufl 27.
Brutal Outrage at Yarmouth,
Mr. Thelwail, who has been for some tiifie delivering z
Course of Lectures on Civil Hiftorv, and particularly on the
laws and revolutions ol Rome, at Norwich, rec. ived a lUong
invitation frotn (everal of the rincipal inhabitant* of Yai
fnoath to repeat them m that town. Mr. Hurrv, one of the
firft merchants in that place, having lent one of iiis wareboufes
for the purpole, and feveiii gentlemen having entered into a
fubfeription to fit it op in a proper way, Thelwall accepted
the invitation.
On theftfftand second nights, a oarty was formed, con
fining of two or three Clergymen, some officers df the Mi
litia, (moftof them dilguifed in coloured elbaths) a fellow
employed to look after the emigrants, and a hangerou or
two (place expe&ants) of government, who attempted to
bree* a dillurbance in the le&ure-room, while a pared of
Uoys without, irrigated by a naval officer, wno offered them
five guiueas if they wod»d pull down the hou s e, co-operatea
with the detachment within, by all the noise and uproar
they were capable of making. The difturbfrs, novtfever.
were put to complete confufton by the firrnnefs, geneial
concord, and discreet good humour of the cotupuny. The
thfrd atak irnvedj and a tremendous night it was. Up
wards of two hundred auditors, of both sexes, and of all
ages, molliv of genteel people, aflembled, and the k&ure
proceeded for some time with the utmost trartqnillky j but
about eight o'clock a banditti, con filling of upwards of sixty
faTltfrs, amjfcl with blui?-eons, who came on fliore (evident
j ly for the elpecial purpose) from a frigate and a cutter lying
in the roads, iuddicnly rushed into the room, attempted to
leize the orator, a:id having put oM the lights, theypromif.
| cuouflyand unmercifully beat »*moll every pcrfon prefect,
without relpeft either of age or sex, there being between so
and 30 well-dress d ladies among the audience. Having
completely c 1 eared t'hc room a Maltlnmfe ficuated
on the walls, they broke to pieces the tribunal and benches,
dcltroyed the orator's books, the •' Roman antiquities ol i
fius HalicarnalTenfis," " Plutarch's Lives, v and Moyle's
trea ifeon " the Lacedemonian govcrnmeut" ; and after sing
ing Gpd save the King, returned to the sea ftiore, whqje sig
nal lights being hung out from the above Oiips, they all im
mediately took to their boats, and re-embarked on board
their refpeftive vrfiVls.
They were oblerved t% be headed by two persons who
z&ed as officers, and about fix of them had cutlaffcs, who
guaided the outer-door, whilst thole with bludgeons entered
the room, and one of the former deiperadocs wantonly aim
ed a bl<>W ai a pcrlou, which cut through the silk handker
chief about his neck, and would probably have fatally wound
ed«fc:m bat for the fluffing inclosed therein.
The situation 0t thole in the room was too horrid for de
scription ; tiie Oiric'ks of tiie women, wi;o were brutally af
filed v> ith the moti. violem blows equally with the men, and
the rushing forward towards the dooi, everyone trying to
efFe&heir escape, created a fceiieof confufion fcarCcly to be
-Mimy' lotl I Heir Rats p intt Tome ~*T fielr
wigs.-the clozths were nearly rent off the backs of several,
and these, with some of the ladies' cloaks and shawls, many
covered with blood, were carried off in triumph by the sail
ors Mr. Samuel Hurry, a ship owner, besides
beat, losing his hat and wig, and having his coat torn, had
his poeket-bppk and money flofen from hi*v The number
of broken lieads was innumerable, few efcapin? without
some blows ; atnong thole who received much ir.jn/y were
Chriilopher Atkinfon, £fq. M. P. Ebenescr Hollick, Esq.
of Whittlesford near Cambridge ; Capt. Flynn, of the pack
et ; Mr. Bell, Colle£l tof the Customs; Mr. Burrctt, sur
geon ; an officer in the Oxfordfhire militia ; and a lady in a
liatc of pregnancy. A young man who lives with Mr. Fer
rier, woollen-draper, and another perfnn; are so much hu«t
from their skulls being fra&ured, as to excite great apprehen
ftons for their fate ; ai«i it is next to a miracle that mauy pcr
lons -weienoi murderat.
The design of the wa*evidently to feiie on Thelwall,
and carry him on Hiip-board, and they had twice nearly fe
cured h«m, but on the firll attempt he .presented a piifol to !
the head of otic of them, exclaiming, offer, the lead vio
lence and you arc a dead man tiicy then desisted, and he
escaped. He was a second time attacked coming out of the
room, but was rescued -by some fpirired young men, who
lately condnfted him 30 the house of a friend, which the
afterwards threatened 10 enter and destroy, but did not
proceed.
One of the g««g is said to have been carried off dangerous
ly wounded, some fav killed, by blow s fuppofrd to ha.e
been received from his companions in the general fcuffle.
The firlt perfot'.s who Scaped from this long corflift, ap
pliea immediately to the Mayor, then at the Affqmbly, for
afi»fiance to fupprels the riot ; but, instead of beinH attend
ed to, one of litem was threatened himfelf \\»th commit
ment, and otic of the persons in company with this chief
magtmate indecently exclaimed, and met with no rebuke,
th2t " ii fcrvtd the people right, and rs for the damn'd ' Lec
iu'er, they would beat him to piece*.*' At length
the Mayjjf anlwcrcd to one of the app]ica?ions that
wasmpe —"Well, lord Spencer may fend the foldiors if he
ple-yT'. But as it is weli known that the military car.oot
aftWrifhoutthe pre fence of the Magiftiate, l«»rd Sjencer, who
e/reffed his reatiioeTs to on a legal requifi:ion, was o.
b/iged to decline making use of thk verbal pcimifSjo,
A French paper relates the following anecdote :
— Few people new remember, that on the id of
March, 1784, the (. mans .Aeronaut, Blanchard,
drew an lmwcnfe coneourfe of people to the Chavif
de Mars, in Pari3, to lei him ascend in a balLori?—
Every thing was prepared at twelve i 'clock, Blan
chard was abrmt to get into tiie boat, when a young
scholar of the military febool ruthed forward with
his lwwrd in his hand, with an intetiu'on of attend
ing with him ; Blanchard y wo»ild not consent, but
neither his intreatiet, nor the exclamatieo of the
croud, whose curiosity was delayed by thi« circum
(lance, could induce young man to gT»e up bts
dtfigh A prrfon went to inform the Governor of
the military fehoo!, who immediately ordered him
to descend from the balloon, which he refufed, and
evtti attempted to cut the cord with his sword, but
was prevented. The ci-devant Marquis de Valerie
seized him, and dragged htm out of the balloon.—
In spite of the delay which his obitinacy caused to
the publ'ic,,his courage and enthusiasm excite admi
ration. llifc event cauled much conversation at
Paiis ; it was forgot, because every thing is forgot
ten in lime. Do you know citizens, who this
.young adventurer was, who (hewed so much cou
rsge !—lt was Buonaparte. This trait calls to
mind the childhood of Alcibiadc6 —It frequently
happens, thai in the infancy of great men,
are given of their future glory.
t N
Ft May a Boy ahwt three ye-ys ©I<\
son of a labouring man, at St. Geotgci s, C-.U-.utci
tcrlhire, went into a neighbour * houle, win v ft «e
poifotred vvztter was for deft toy ing flu's, whici! hting
within reach of he child, In took it tip, and dtank
it, and'not with Handing every mcJical afiiltance was
immediately given Irsni, he expired, rnexft ex
cruciating agonies about four liouis after.
The following accident happened lately at Jour
dan HoulV, near llmiuilcr. A woikman, iion! j
LonJon, employed on the building there, Ind paid
Hiis addresses to a young woman of the neighbour
hdod, who having a fufpicioit that he was a marri
ed mfi, took an opportunity on Su.iday fc'nnight
to question mmrlofely refpectisg that circumstance ;
he dented it with oath?, and called stir the venge
ance of heaven if he was not 2n unmarried perfoh :
However Angular it may appear, it is a fa<?), that he
had scarce uttered the words, win-*, he fell back
frorti the place where they were fitting, and expired
alrrtoH immediately. He was'a vciy profane wietch,
and has left a wife and family.
In confeqtience of ati information laid at the
office by several of the inhabitants of Charlenoouir
in the Strand, of a riotous affcjnbly being held in a
public hoiife in that court, a fcarch warrant was if
iued, an 3 a party of tiie pat role went to the houle
on Tuesday night, wiiere they found a common hop
was field, and on enteiing the rOorn they apprehen
ded seventeen chimney sweepers, nine dullmen, am : »
a black fidier. They were brought before the ma
gillrate, and underwent an examination : the great
er part foui.d sureties for their good behaviour.
The Viea«n Gazette states that " field marfha!
Wurmfcr, before he retreated to the Tyrol, had
thrown in tj,ooo frefli troops into Mantua; and
drawn out all the battalion; that had defended the
place during the ficge. The artillery ami ammum
tion which the French left behind thejn wlicn they
raised the firgc, have been fafely convcycd into the
city. The park of artillery, of M3o nieces of can
non, which the Frencti left behind them at Borgo
foi Le, has been of im> tife to us, having been throws,
into the river. 5
The emperor has ifltied a proclamation, in which
he calls upon his fubj'Cts to take up arms, to avert
the danger*which threatens them, from the destruc
tive progress of the French ; but e* prefies his reso
lution not to have recourle, but in the lait extremi
ty, to those violent mealuics to which the enemy
have beerr £>lely indebted tor the fuccefi of their
arm's. He profeffe# a, jutt reliance on the fidelity
of his fubje&s, for whom he avows a firm
I meiit.
By the mail from Lisbon,. information is said to
i have been received, that tjie Portuguese eourt have
agreed to the demand made by" the French of tweti
ty-lve millions of crulades, but has refufed to bieak
off the commercial intercourse with England.
LONDON, September 9. "
PRO SP E'er 4) p PEACE.
The indirect attempt of minifiers to negociate with
the French republic, having failed, we are happy to
hear, that, waving every tittle, pilrry consideration
of etiquette oa a feufinefs so fericufly momentous, they
have, with muth wisdom and propriety, final 1 )' deter
mined to meet the question of WAR or PEACE, in
the rr,oft fair, open ahd honorable mann^,
or iiticinMfrailei, by the intervention of any
other power.
Mr. Hammond's interview with the king of Prnflia,
although it did not produce the advantages which
were expefled to result from it, nevertheless enabled
that geutlrm?n to afcertam at ieaft one very, material
and important fatf, namely, '« That the French go
vernment had not the smallest objeflion to treat with
this country —but that, for the purpeft of Supporting
their eonftltution in the eyes of their country, and of
proving to all Europe the ample coni'ohdation of rhe
republic, any p rope fit ion the BriuCi cabinet might
have 10 make on thefubjeifl of PEACE, muff be made
m a direct and unequivocal manner to the diredlory it-
In coifequence oAhis intimation, the csbinet im
mediately proceeded to deliberate on the queflion ;
and, after coniiderable debate, it was at length decid
ed that an accredited agent (hould be sent immediately
«o Paiis, inverted with all the neceflary powers for
opening a negeciation with the executive directory, and
(empowered to submit to them iiich terms ts our mini
llers an willing to agree to, for the purpose of restor
ing psacc to Europe. Those terms are already drawn
up.—We ire well allured they have been diaated by
finc«rity, and that they are at once so liberal, wife,
and honor 'ble, as to afford the molt rational ground of
hope that thty cannot fail to produce the moil favora
ble imprefiwn not only upon the membersof th* French
government, but upon the French nation at large, es
pecially when it i considered that the executive direc
tory, (owing to the j#-feit ruinous Hate of their
finances, and the diftrefled condition of their affairs,
independent of the recent check they have experienced
in Germany J ruiiif be as anxious to bring the war to
a speedy termination, as either of the powers with
whom they have to contend. Of thr Mature of the
Vv'c u;e not yet 1 onvCl■ y informed—but it
has been hinted to us, from a quarter,of the greatest
reipeftabiiity, that the grand balls of the proposed ne*
gociat.on is lii.c.y to be, a restoration of all our con
queffs in the Weft-Indies, during the present war, and
a'fornaal cession of the whole of the conquered territo
ries on the left- bank of the Rhine. The eRCmy, on
their part, to tvaeuate the Miianefe, and all the other
countries of Italy now in their power.
Ihe ptrfon vhoni miuiflers leave made choice of
to into e: vcution this important objciil, is the
Hon. 1 ho mas Grlnvillk, a gentleman of acknow- I
ledged abilities m the diplomatic line, and every way
-qualified for the weighty trufl, adding to a profound i
and exienfive knowledge, an elegance of address and |
manners, that has ever rendered him rrfpeifred and I
admired.—He was employed on a very important mis
sion to France towards the concluhon of the laftwar,
and proved himfclf, altlipugh then very be
perfciSly adequate to the taik.
Mi. GrenviUt i> to or accompanied by an ofikial
gentleman a» his fecictary, and as soon as the necrflary
passport is procured for him from the Krencfi govern
ment, it it intended he fhal) embark with his suite, oa
board a frigate at Brighton, for Dieppe.
By this determination of miniflcrs to reflore the
bl.-ffings of peace, they at on e refcui tbemfelves from
the injurious imputations daily laviihed againfl their
intentions, and demonstrate to their countrymen the
sincerity of their desire to relniquifh a coutelt, the fur
ther prosecution of which, whatever necessity there
was for,its rominenceixent, can be deemed neither ex
pedient, prefitable, or fafe. That perfect fnceefs may
I attend their commendable efforts, must be the earnest
prayer of evsry Kriton, ailuated by » regard for his
country, or a wish for its proi'perity and happinefa.
Ihe bank has lately fefuled ro difcounl the bills of
some of the inofl refpe(£lable houses in th . cuy.
Th- otifr of council for permittir
be nude from Eng.,uw, to ciiamr; „ .
of the French, is chiefly intended •m 5 ,
chafers from lioi!»nd, for the imm
goods with whi. h the ware-houiet ou
company are filled, and lor which : - '
diate dem nd in 'I bis r ;1 , j. a>
ly, but ralhly, to be a fymptu, of
ißg peace. Its objefl is i'oleiy a commercial .'w/'-hw
of inducing covntntt to rm.ki piyi..eft't here, whi'h
would of course withho.d them, it they were prevent
ed Rem receiving.-iny in return,
September 10.
Hismajefty, we are. afiined, is decidedly in fan*,
of an anajias exprefccti u is deter
mination to use every means in his power to hri
bout that delirible object, with at little delay as uo <
bi«. ' H
Mr. Ellfworth, a treafurr niefTeaj-er, wW lafti night
difpatchetj with letters to the court of Iv'aplef, Whirl*
arc said to be of "the greau.t impaitance. flic j; u ■.
ral report at the trcafwy they contain the u r;;j
which this court intend to .pr. ; pofe ?u the French ihu
tory, in order to obtain a geneial pc-aco.
A messenger was sent off to Vienna on Thurfda,
with the determination rf o_ur cabinet to prnpofe ttrm»
of peace to the French government.
The party w. iters are now n.ore enraged at Mr.
Pitt's condiiel than e»er, becaule he is fltiermined
make proposals to the irciicb of so liberal and cogita
ble a nature, that if peace doe* not reiof* from them,
the failure will not be imputable to th: ilritilh cab.net.
i Ji* indirect means lately had recourfc toby miuillcr*
to obtain peace, was declined by those writer.', arrogant
and filly, and the open and honorable line of iinnluit,
now adopted by them, it termed a degrading humilia
tion. Say, gentlemen, which way v.i,l you have it'
lltcre ij fomethmgf extraordinary in the present t.f
pc£l of our affairs. If appearances are to bt truiled,
we ate offering peace to France, and about to engage
in a wir ft ith Spa.u 1 Is it to be expe&ed that the ur
mer will accede to any terms of peace in which the
latter is not included? Would Spain engage in a war
«i>h Great-iifilaia, if not weli allured of the aid of
France ? There is but one m#de of solving these difE
calties, which is by iuppofirg that our miiuflers, pro
per y faerificiiig ali punctilio, are determined le tiy
whether all differences may not be fettled at the feme
time, and the complaints of-Sj*a»n I— y i*t
congrcfs at Parit.
-i— September o.
It appears at present to be Cf mi.
nifters to assemble parliament on the 47th inlt. unlefr
some new occurrence fliouJd intervene to render it tie- '
ctflary to postpone the meeting to a later period ■ The
proposed negociitiont with the French directory are
intended, in the mean time, to be carried on with the
utmost zeal.
Brussels papers to the .3d inft. have been re«eived.
which state, on the authority of a letter from
.hat the Prussian troops have received orders to aft of- /Ny
fenlively againfi any armed body that may enter Fran-1
conia, except the I rtneh.
It is understood in the bell informed circles, that i
the principal part of the supplies for the erluing
are to be railed by borrowing three (hillings in th
(found on all landed property above 4001. per annum/
This forced loan the, minifier proposes to pay off in
three years.
By the return of the several regiments of militia in J
this kingdom, which has just been made to the war
office, it appears that the eftabliSiment is beyond tx- j
peftation rcfpeftable and foi midsble.
Mr. Jackson who is going to Paris on the important
pacific million, is son to Do&or Jaskfor., Ptebcnd of it,
Panl\ and the Protege of the Duke ef Leeds, who is
his godfather. This gentleman is laid to possess th*
most iplendid alilities; though^a youne; man he ha bien 1
"cutiD [1 sa"Wfthf ant iiegociatiiin.., which ie
flefted the hipheft honour on his talents and discretion.
A Ibort time after he had been introduced into the office "■*"
oi fccretary of state for foreign affairs, at the aga of
eighteen, he was appointed lecretary of legation tp the
Coui t of Berlin, at the time when a rupture was expect
ed with the Emprels of Ruflia, on account of the dispute
refpoitirg Oczakow. He his lince been employed on a
ipecial million to the Court of Vienna, previous to the
meeting ol Parliament last year; and he has aifo idled
as fccretary to theenibaffy, and Mmifter Plenipotentiary
st the Coprt oi Madrid, previous to tfcie arrival there of
Lord Bate. y
Sir Sydney Smith, it is reported, is at present closely
confined in the prifou of the Temple at f'aris.
/ PARiS, Ayguft 31.
In the fteret committee of the Council of Five Hun
dred, th? Treaty of Alliar.de, offenCv* and defenfive,
between France and Spain, wa» read It is no other
than the family Compadt under a new form, and accom»
aiodated to present circumftunces.
It is agreed, that whichever of th« two powers (hall
be attrcVed, the other lhall immediately furnift IJ fail
of the line, 18,000 foot, and 6000 cavalry to the aid of
its ally. The vcffels ft-.all aft either separately or united
ly, at the will of the power which demands alfiftance.
The 18th at tide imports that it is particularly agaiaft
the F.ngli/h that these united fortes are to art : This
treaty may therefore be regaroed as a declaration of war
on the pert of Spain England.
This treaty, which was ligned at Madrid by General
Perignon ana the Prince of Peace, wes referred to a fp«-
cial committee. /
Irilh Linens, &e.
Imported per the Jhipj Giajgoiu, from Dublin, Liber
ty, from Cork, and brig Mentor., from "Be/aX,
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In whole and half boxes,
AfTorted from lid. to 41. ftcrling—Aifo 5-4 wide
Sheetings, and low priced yarn and worflcd lick.
On Hand,
7-g Wide Lawns.
Diapers and Table-Cloths
A few.boxesTickens and Checks
A few bales funnels
Cork and Beliait .Sail Cloth, Nos. I and 6
15 Boxes } (6 by g,
10 Ditto £ Window Glass, J 7 by 7,
5 Ditto j C 8 by ro.
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to th«
i drawback, and will be dilpofcd ol by the package on
reafouable terms.
James, Clibborn & Engiifh,
No. 6, N. Front-firect.
loth nw. 19th. dtf
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM IVI'DGUGALL will open hij&h«ol on Mon
day the 31 ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, athii
Elegant JSew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock
on Mondays, Weducfday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
the fame day s.
In additien to a number of new cojllions, he metns to
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firft praitifißg ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, die fir It of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during-the leafou.
vFor tcrrr.% ice, enquire st bis bsufe, No. IJ4> Market
llreet.
04i. 17. eetf-
0.3. 17,
%
s si
m
•'«'-i
; J
V
*"■*Jr:h r GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
No IV.
MANY further similar illtiftrations .miglit be
made of ibe ex-fecretary'aphilofophical talents from
his note: on Virginia ; ttiefe may for the present fuf
fice. At a future opportunity, we may find lelfure
to notice his very extraordinary penal code, and his
whimfica) system of retaliation, his wife attempt to
refute the account of the deluge, (evidently stated
by Moses to be a miracle) by a recurrence to philo
sophical an<J merely natural principles ; and sundry
other philosophical ;ibfurdiiie«. His plagiary report
on weighs and measures will be adverted to under
another head.
After these specimens of his talents, these elaba
rate prodnfliors of his mind, we may fafcly ven
ture to vr'hbold from Thomas Jefferfon the title of
philosopher.
But we fhotild incur no danger in yielding tohi9
rlaim in ihe rullelt extenr, brcaufe it mill be obvi
ouc to tie plsineft twderftandings, and to men of
the fmallcft experience in public life, that of all be
ingi, a philosopher, makea the word politician, that
if an}- one circumitince more than another, could
difqiialify Mr. Jefferfon for thcJPrefidency, it would
be the charge of his being a philosopher. Not be
lieving him to possess any thing more than the majk
of my objeftinn to his election would
certainly not reft on that ground ; but as there tmy
be some, who, having read his works fuperficially,
may have been deceived by that character, which is (
fometicnes acquired, because no one has been at the
trouble to feminize and (trip it of its borrowed (
garb, to them 1 lepeat that, admitting him to be a
molt learned philosopher, such a character alone
creates his difquallfication for the Prelidency.
In turning over the-page of history, we find it j
teeming with evidences «f 'he ignorance and mif
manr.gement of philosophical politicians. The
great Locie was employed to frame a cojillitution
for Catolina ; but it abounded so much with regu
lations, TTTjrfpficaMe ttrthe (fate of things for which
it was designed, so full of tfuszclic wfumfiu, that
it was soon thrown aside. Condorcet, a particulrr
friend of our American philosopher, was a great
Frtnch philosopher, his constitution of 1793, con
tains more ibfurdities than were evtr before piled
up in any fyftesn of Government ; it was (j radi
cally defe£tive that its operation was never even at
tempted ; Condorcet's political follies, and the
wretched termination of his career are well known ;
ha bad philosophy enough to know how to raise a
storm, but not enough to avert its effc£i«. The af
fairs of France have lince been mure ably condudted
(except during the fliort arifloctacy of Robespierre)
by men who a« good politicians, but fortunately
for France, not philosophers.
Rittenhoufe was a great philosopher, but th« only
proof we have had of his political talents was his
fuffering himfelf to be wheedled into the Presidency
of the Democratic Society of Philadelphia, a fo
iiety wilh which he was even alhamed to associate,
tho' cajoled and flattered into the loan of his name..
Many other in/lances might be adduced.
The charaflereftic traits of a philosopher, when
be turns politician are, timidity, whimficalnefs, a -
■fcifpofif i'tri to f<H>m ceiiait) a lid~
not from the true nature of man, a pronenefs to
predicate all his measures on certain theories, fortn
■' fd in the recess of his cabinet,and not, as they ought
to be, on the existing state of thinjiß and circum
fiance* ; an inertness cf mind, as applied to go
vernmental policy, a wavering of disposition when
great and sudden emergencies demand promptness
of decision and anergy of aflion. If the laws are
eppofed and infurreflion raises its crest, the insur
gents will always calculate on the weakness [and in
dtcifionof the executive (if a philosopher) and they
will be juftific'd in their calculations, for he will he
sitate till all is loft ; be will be wandering in the la
byrinth* of philosophical speculations, moralizing
on the fin of spilling human blood, and Foolishly per
fuaditig himfelf that maukii.d can always be re
claimed and brought back to their duty by whole
some advice. His mind will be constantly attraft
td to his favorite purfnits, and his prefix en tial du
ties, of course, be postponed to more pleasing avo
cations.
Let us suppose one ol these exploring and pro
found philosophers defied President of the United
States, and a foreign minister, on Ims firft introduc
tion inter hi* cabinet, surprizing hi|i in the aft of
infpefting the Ji'tn and the scars Jim of a black and
a white pig, in order to discover the causes of dif
ference which nature has in their «folour, j
or with the fame view anatomizing the kidnies and
glands of a Negro to ascertain the nature of his se
cretions ?. Would not the minister's firft observation
be, that the philosopher would be much better em
ployed, in-his retirement at home, and his second,
that such a President would furnifh excellent ma
t terials for him to make use of ?
What refpeft would the officers of government
. entertain for a president, whom they should find, on
waiting on him for inftruftions, that he wasbufily
engaged in impaling a butteifly or contriving with
assiduous perfcverancean*eafychairof newconftrnc
tion ? Would not an attention to these littlenefTes
make him the ridicule of the world ? The great
Washington was, thank God, no philosopher ;
had be heeu one, we should never have seen his
great military exploits ; we (bould never have prof
p"red urdei bis wife administration. There is ano
ther chara&eriftic tiarit in philosophers highly dan
gerous, namely, their extreme openness to fatterJ, ;
a ftarteier will be always sure to gaifc a phi ofophei's
affeflions; n philosophical president will be eonfe- j
quently most influenced by that nation which flat
ters n.ofl-; which that is, need not be mentioned :
if tbfir agents do not fail in this national qualifica
tion, such a president will be their most devoted
servant : he will also be perpetually surrounded by
.a (warm of domestic flatterers; and as they are
generally the hafeft of charaders, the companions
he will be attached to, and the meafu'es they will
promote, may without be predided.
* Who hasnot heard from the Secretary the praises of
h» wonderful' Whirligig Chair, which had the miraculous
quality of allowing the pt rfon seated in it to turn his cad,
without moving his tail? Who has not admired his fei*ile
genius in the production of his Epicurcaa fide-besrd, and
other Gim Krackery ? ]
1
5 B-tt althnu s fh I hare thus denied to Mr. Jeffer- !
son the title of a real philosopher, I am ready to
dllow that he poffefTrs the inferior cliarafteriHics,
and the externals of philosophy. To a mind, ana
>c bitieus of pafiing with the world for a philosopher,
T 1 the firft were easily acquired, the last as eaftly as
sumed. The inferior charafterifticras applied to
. e the science of politics, are a want of steadiness, a ►
18 conftitnticrtial tndtcifion and versatility, vifioriary,
° wild and fpeculalive systems, and rations other de
feflive features, which have been already pourtray
ed—lndeed so unsettled ,is the mind of n ivoifld ie
' philosopher, so capricious and vcrfatile are the prin
' ciples of these philosophical mimics, that they at
r tempt to reconcile the most irreconcilable theories,
and to juitify'the most incoafiftent ads by the fame
Itar.dard. Thiii you will find these pretenders to
P philosophy, at one moment, coolly juftifying the
itiAft attror-ious and far.guinary cruelties, provided
thev are means to a certain favorite end ; at another
S cautiously difiuading from vigorous, the necefTtiy
. measures, left they might fatal], iiTue, in the shed
ding of human blood. Condorcet and Briffet were
like Jefferfort, reputed philosophers; they set up
! certain wild and impra&icable theories of govern
j ment; among them, of course, the emarcipatioa of
the negroes in "the French Weft-Indies, an:), of
[ conrfe, the mafTasrc of tl* whites, and the defola
j of the colonies: this was reprcfented to
them, by a deputation lrom the colonies, warning
r them of the fatal confeqtiences of their principles.
' What was Philosopher Condorcet's reply ? Attend
' to it, Citizens ot the Southern States ! 1 He an
swered with ttue philosophic calmness, " Peri/h all
" the coltnifls, rather than that we should devia'e
one tittle from our principles." This is the enlight
ened Condorcet, to whom bis friend Jefferfon, Simu
lated by a sympathetic philanthropy, sent Bannc
ker's Almanac, as the highest proof of his admira
tion of the Negro's work This is the fame Con
dorcet who could, with calmnef*, fee the colonics
laid waste, and thousands of aged colonics and in
r.o„-cui «ad chililre:i maJTicred, and yet was
peipctually preaching up philanthropy *»d untver
fal benevolence. Brijj'oi was much such another
character, tiiay both dcfervedly met the fame fate.
As ignorant people are often imposed upon by
an appearance of philosophy, those, who have am
bitious designs, tcadily alTume its externals • these
consist in a ridiculous affeftaton of limplicity and 1
humility in a thousand frivolities, and little puerile ; 1
tricks, whirhalways render the perfotmer contempt- ! '
ible in the eyes of discerning people, who soon dif- j
cover that under the afTutned cloak of humility, ,
j lurks the most ambitious spirit, the most overween- ,
\ ing pride and hauteur, and that the externals of fim
. plicity and humility afford but a- flimfy veil to the
interna/ evidences of ariftociatic splendor, sensuality
j and epieareanifm.
g Mr, Jefferfon has been held up and cbarafler
_ ized by his friends as " the quiet, model! retiniig
philosopher—as the plain, simple, unambitious re
publican. He shall not now, for the firft time, be
' regarded as the intriguing incendiary—theafpiring
turbulent competitor, unless fa£ts (hall warrant the
, fuggeltion : of these an enlightened public mull
, j"^e-
I What, if a quirt, raodeit, unambTiicgs phijof >•
} plier at a delicate crisis, withdrawing himfelf from
a post of duty, from an alledged attachment to phi
t lofophical pursuits, and a ttrong antipathy to pub
lic honors, should immediately devote his hours of
reti'#ient /» mature his schemes »f concealed amliti
in, and at the appointed time, come fotth the indif -
■ giufed candidate for the highejl honors, and for the
f most arduous station to which ambition can aspire ?
Would not this trait alone fufSciently m3rk his
character and his views ?
To some few of his fellow citizens, this inay per
haps be thefirjltime his real character has been dis
covered ; but let tLem recollect that there is always
T " a firfl time," when aharafters Uudiou9of artful
* disguises are unveiled, when the vizor of ftoiciftn is
plucked from the brow of the epicurean, when the
, plain of quaker fimplirity ia stripped from th«
concealed voluptuary, when Crfar, coyly refitfin* the
proffered diadem, is found to be Csefar rejeSinf the
r trappings, " but tenaciously grafptng the substance
of imperial domination." PHOCJON.
i Philadelphia,
'f WEDNESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 19, 1796.
d
I The brig Molly, Captain Medlin, arrived yesterday
from the Weft-Indies, caught on fire last night, and
i considerable damage was done before? the fire could be
got under.
From the Aurora.
Ia the City, though the republicans hare not proved
able to carry their several tickets, yet the popularity of
John Swanwick, acquired by his firm opi'r.fition to the
Eritifh treaty, has ft cured his re-cle<9ion, notwithstanding
the arts and induflry employed against him, in this center
of British influence and ariifocratic corruption.
E X T R A C T.
" In the old worlds if the inhabitant of the
north be compelled, by a decayed frame, to seek in
foutbern climes, under a more genial fun, a shelter
from the rude wintry blasts ; or the debilitated native
of the south require the bracing of the northern air ;
each must retinquilh the government, laws, religion,
and habits, to which he has been actuftomcd from hi»
youth, and expose himfelf to all the •snbarraffments of
an alien society and an unknowa dialetft: But here,
the citizens, bordering on the St. Mary's or the St.
Croix, on the Atlantic or the Ohio, may mutually in
terchange their homes, and Feek the benefits of a more
friendly clime ; arid each shall find, in every region,
equal liberty and just lav#, a fofteriag government,
the fame people, the fame language, the fame reli-
J'oa." Oration.J
MILITIA MUSTER.
FRIDAY the aid inft. heing tne day appointed for !
the sth regiment of the Philadelphia Militia to mutter, 1
the Officers and Soldiers thereof are requested to parade
accordingly on that day, with their arms and accoutre
i ments, at the Centre Square, at ii o'clock at noon:—
] fhouli apy of the regiment be in want of arms for the
occafiofl, the commanding-officer will, on a timely appli- ;
cation, procure a supply.
. WILkIAM NICHOLS, Lt. Col.
Philadelphia, O«2obcr 17
, £5" THE First Troop of Horse, will parade at the !
■ MidHle-Ferry, nnvMonday next, at two o'clock in the
-1 afternoon : the attendance ol every gentleman is ei-i !
peiied. Oil. 19.
C V"
r-. ELECTION. j
° A true ftitemeittoef the votes for a Senator for the tity
i, and county of Philadelphia, ar.d
county of Delaware.
Newlin. Pc2rfoH.
[" City of Philadelphia, J4*4 959
County ditty, 1146 lz\i
0 ( County of Delaware, 4;;8 261
' 3008 2432
2431
; 576 majority for Newlin, j
rtifteid cf >27, 29 has been published.
RETURNS,
l > FerLANCAiTSR Borough and County.
f Governor. Thomas Miffiin J7jß
1 Congreft. John W. Kitten 1679
c William Webb 77 I
i Senator. Matthias Barton 953
r Alexander Scoit 879 I
Afiembly. Richard Keys 17519 t
Jeremiah Brown 1419
Abraham Carpenter 1442
Thomas Boude 1003 1
3 John Hopkins 943
Samuel Boyd 765
f James Rofs 739 <
f Abraham Witmer 707
/ . Caleb Cope 481
Dar.iel Buckley 341 1
'r Patterfon Bell 177
> John Eckman 351
Cotnmifiioner, John Hambright 958
The following gentlemen, then, appear to be duly J
■ elected.
' Governor. Thomas Mifflin.
: Conp-efs. John W, Kittera. <
Senator. Matthias Barton.
Afiembly.
Richard Keys Thomas Boude
Jeremiah Brown John Hopkins
Abraham Carpenter Samuel Boyd.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
BOSTON, October 14.
r ATTACK O.N HALIFAX.
An arrival on Wednesday lafl at Cape Ann, 6 days
y before foil it; with a French fieet of it fail of the line
" and 6 frigates, from France, bound on an expedition
c against lla\».ax. They were then about to leagues weft
d j of thatplase, *nd detained the above A-efiel 6 hours,
r ! examiniug I:«r very closely, during which time the
i captain had the fulled evidence < f their being French,
f i and of their force and destination- Halifax has been
lately ftrehgthened in its force, and has a trained mili
' tia and two or three regiments of regular troops (in
• eluding a provincial.) Prince Edward commands
- th_ere. The naval force, which wiil probably be at
e the place, rauft be iHconfiderable. The)' have a weii
y finifhed magazine cii naval and military flores, and a
fuperU yard at the above place. ,
Capt. Atwood, from Shelburne, in 5 davsjyearnt
thereof the landing of the French on Newfoundland
s —but heard nothing of any French fieet near Halifax.
'• A rumour was circulating yefterc'ay, that the French
c were repulsed at Newfoundland with great slaughter.
a Our belt exertions couid not trace this rumour to any
e authentic foiirce.
,1 It is laid a gentleman from Nova-Scotia, informs,
that admiral Murray's whole squadron, confifiing of
(hips, was at liaK lax, lalt week. If fo,it will ena
' * UUaUe Jlritifli lo niilt® a. c«;n&4vraUl.; -cUf&nc* against
n t!te French, who are fu;pofed to luvi attacked the
i. place; though the acqivfition will be more important
if it finally iu'rrenders to the republicans.
,[ '
j. NEW-YORK, Oaober 18.
- The followng are the claims by which the Spaniit
court ju/lify their invsfion of Portugal.
? I. Jure primitive donatio*!!—By right of the firlt
deed of gift from Alj.honfo, king of Arragon, who
s had furniihed Henry, the baitard, of Lorrain, with an
army to conquer Portugal, on condition of marrying
. his daughter.
f„ 2. Jure fuccejftonis—As the right of fuccefilon is
pretended (in the law language ot Spain) thence to be
, indefeafible.
3. Jure pojterieris dsnationis —By right of a second
IS gift, when the cardinal Sebaftun's brother re delivered
e it to Philip ll.—He and his lon Philip 111. ;henee held
e the crown of Portugal, till it "Was wrested from them
c by the revolution of Braganza.
e Such is the state of Porlu gal, which, while we are
writing, is, two probably, in the possession of the French
and Spaniih arrr,i.
The unfortunate Louis XVIII. rejected and expelled
: from all the territories of his relations, has at I*H found
an asylum at filandenburgh, in the dominions of the
duke of Brunfwick, where he arrived 011 the 17th of
August.
'1 homas Macdoiia'd, eft} councellor at law, has been
appointed one of the tvra con.miffioners to come to
X America, on the of his Britannic majefly, pursu
ant to the late treaty with the United States.
Ie By a meflage from the dsre&ory of France, it ap- j
pears, that a Handing army, in times of profound peace,
j mull be maintained, to the amount «f 170,000 men.—
j- This, force, and the eXpence, arc arranged acording to
c the following estimate :
„ Men. Livres.
r Infantry ico.ooo 35,000,000
Horle 4*, 000 30,000,000
Artillery and engineers, 16,000 20,000,000
f Gens d'armcs 6,000 6,000,000
n Veterans 5,000 2,000,000
r Guards of the lrgiflative
e body and the JirerfUry 1,000 3,000,000
Stajf, commandants, and
commiflarits of war i,oco 3,000,000
, Allowances 1,000,000
,f Military police and inftruc
; tioa 1,000,000
170,000 100,000,000
e 1 HifMM
> . v
> GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIJT.
'
PHILADELPHIA, OSober 19.
ARRIVED. Days,
r Ship John Hodfman, prize to the Frcnch
■, Brig Amelia, Houston Cape-Nichola-Mole 15
e Molly, Meddlin Port-au-Prince 21
Polly, Monk tlavannah 32
Saily, Guyer Gonaivei 26
e Liberty, Di-ur St. Kitts .14
" Sch'r HatJiian, Jerem/e 32
Dove, C ; 'in de. 33
Hawk, Hunt St. Croix 12
Nancy, Davidfon Miraguane 32
e Sloop Hope, Foster da. 29
e CLEARED.
Ship Roebuck, Shewell Hamburgh
Jaoies, Garret Halifax and France
t TK' trig Polly, Kye, from Kavanna to Philadelphia,
[ ptt into Norfolk in diftlefs.
The fcliooijcr Betsey, Pendleton, from N. Orleans to
this port put into Noitolk
Capt. Wroth, from Port-au Prince fell in with the
schooner Mary, capt. Nichols of New-York from Turk's
Island, in diflrefs, having carricd »way her sore-topmast,
sne had one man waihcd overboard in a gale. Captaii*
Wroth took her in tow, and left her below Rheedy Is
land with a pilot on board the i6thinft.
New-York, Oflober 18.
Arrivalt at this port.
Brig Queen, Balwee Briftcl
S«hr. W'afhington, Burrell St. Bartholomew*
Huntress, Watson Roclilort
Sloop Hiram, Bay of Honduras
£xtrx£l from the log-book of the Clip Jiitifis, Capt.
Conklin, i* days from and 19 days
from land's end.
Sailed from the Downs the 19th September, In com
pany with the following ibips; Ship JSanfero, Capt.
Smith, boußd for New-York; S»jperb, of dofton,
bound i'oi L.Ajon ; Kofe, of New-York' for Charlel
ton.
September it.
In the channel, was brought to by the Britilh frigate
Bonne Citoyen, treated politely and fyffered tepafs.
September 15.
Spoke the (hip Britannia, of Boston, bound to Brest,
out fix weeks, all Well—in long. 19, W. and lat. 47.
O<s>ober 9.
Spoke thefchoonei Rainbow, from Greenock, bound
to Wifeafiet, in long, si, lat. 43, out 38 day», alt
-well.
List of Prizes and Blanks in the Wafhingto*
Lettery No. 2.
cßih Day's Drawing, Oft. 8.
No. Dph. No. Doli. JV«. Dolt. 2V». £>Jt,
439 10 11024 *3437 375)6
739 46« 47° 38^54
74 2 . 858 697 10 74 6
823 12822 »4 6 i9 *® 934
s 122$ 907 jij©6o 29 -7®
3" »353' 779 586
959 697 b6*°» b st
3015 10 3°6 9'S
040 333 3'7 404 11
434 34« 684 568
685 394 «739° 4'74 6
409S 4/8 10 42053
170 6 80 10 88588 3^o
I 3 fei 19 B*7 t>o 1 i* tt,s>
s*4® 9 U 10 74S »• 89 s
'43 '*'99 «® 77' 45° 1 4
373 543 9*9 >3,4
385 6oi 29384 & ti
53S 604 564 bfao
6072 10 741 10 30246 737
074 849 25 314,3 10 Sod
71 '* 979 3 JI SI 48183 i*
337 i6otß 703 ie 181
371 10 S'7 " 708 265 j #
41 1 i* (>45 9°6 10 284 1*
866 933 2 5 33°°5 672
8000 10 *7*58 397 8 9j
273 18 70 i» 506 47 1 a a
300 190 345 i" ,*S
bit io 19892 10 091 ie 871 j*
9'93 *0006 10 893 20 94a 19
267 486 $84 48240
664 641 35''3 Bss
1005& 946 444 49354 »»
674 siigj 45S 40,5
767 644 742 jQf | 9
916 to , 780 10 3^994
924 10 92640 20 3710.
29th Day's Drawing—Monday, O&ober i«.
No. Dolt. N». Doit. No. Dolt. No. Dolt,
*44 '33 11 34427
844 3>B 10 25641 0 ?
1301 35' «• t>6B 100 36099 is
ti2> 46$ 10 7•< 6 320
203 864 8 o 895
611 i* got 16164 jo 3805 cl 9
t 3247 '6914 87020 io 165
599 10 548 10 « 7 7 j 9 o 4S i»
45.2 27123 r si fc6; i 0
It 5090 ie 446 «Bcbi , 55 1(
0 5«o 899 186
II 6458 ißßio i« 459 40354 ie
g 7.08 19096 973 19
*77 099. 890 1979
s 845 a 296 30216 41^61
e 9056 *1068 315 1
543 10 749 10 52214 885
781 g*i2s Si ß 10 43741 IO
" 10526 10 700 928 50 45127 A co
893 718 34020 46H9 !•
d 11124 »37« 6 »o 7'l 594
n >3446 K 99 35016 676
943 *4°73 «'9 47245
e 14443 'O 604 416 4904S
|j 959 618 10 414 S S
Error in the 26th drawisg—— Inflead of 18277 read *
d 18877 20 dollars.
d In the 97th days drawing—lnftrad of 7049 read 7149;
e and instead of 24t8t read 2428., both blanks.
-f
THE PANTH£ON #
And R/cketts's Amphitheatre,
For Equestrian and Stag* performances, Corner of
Chefnut and Sixth-streets.
1 HIS EVENING, Wednesday, Ovilcber 19,
Will be presented,
A variety of pleafingEntertainments.
Equestrian Exercises'—by Mr. Ricketts, Mr. F. Ricketts,
0 Master Hutchins, and Mrs. Spinacnta.
0 Clown to the horfemanlhip—Mr. Sully.
0 After which will be presented,
0 A COMIC BALLET DANCE,
0 Composed by Mr. Dtirang,
called
0 The Country Frolic ;
0 Or, Til Mtrry Haymakers.
0 William, Mr. Duraag.
Rustic, Mr. Sully.
0 Father Frank, Mr. Tompkint.
Old Man, Mr. Coffie.
3 Rofina, Mrs. Tompk'qts.
Dorcas, Miss Rot infon.
And Phoebe, Mrs. Durang.
EQUESTRIAN exercises.
By Mr. KicTetti and Mr. F. Rickctts, on three Horses,
who will carry Mailer Hutchina and Master Snider on
their ihoulders, as
Flying Mercuries.
And, for this night only,
Th« whole to conclude with a Comic Pantomime, called
J .VULCAN'S GIFT}
1 Or, The Bower of Hymen.
6 Harlequin, Mr. Sully.
i Pantaloon, Mr. Durang.
1 Sportsman Lover, . Mr. Tompkins.
3 Gamekeeper, Mr. Coffie.
2 Pierrot, Mr. Spinacuta,
1 Fille de Chambre, Miss Robinson. and
9 Columbine, Mrs. Spinacuta.
VuWan, (with a Song)' Mr. Sully.
Ii Cyclopes, Servants, Cooftabics, Go&ler, &e. by the reft
e of the Gompany.THIS DAY PUBLISHED, T(
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
N (Price 12 1-2 Cents) J.J avc J
The President's Address
To the People of the United States, A genet
Announcing Ills intention of retiring from public life
at the expiration of the prefcnt constitutional term of j-£
j Rose'
September 10. a Ft A
Watson's Answer to Gibbon.
IND
JUST RECEIVED, A
And for Tale by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnnt-ftreet, Com
Apology for Christianity,
In a feriet'cf Letters, addrejfed is Sept
Edward Gibbon,
Author of the History of the Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire:
Sy R. WATSON, D. d. f. r. s. Bishop of LandafT. T^OR
(Price 75 cents bound ) 1. dc
Watson's Answer to Paine, center
To be had at the fame place. s
The enemies of Religion are awake ! Let not her t
friends sleep.
Sept I. mw&ftf 1Q
Philip Nicklin & Co. ,£o
' HAFE FOR SALE, »000
Souchong 5
Hyson Skin /
Young Hyson V FRESH TEAS »33*
Hyson and 401 °
Imperial J '
Yellov/Nankeens »°
China Ware, assorted in Boxes and Cherts J
Quicksilver erfon
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality ic j * (
chests » ° 3
London Market f MADEIRA WINE [he
London particular S-in pipes, hoglheads, &in this
New-York Market J quarter calks rh^
Teneriffe Wine in ,pip*e and hogfceads contiti
Sugar Candy by the Box may t
Sail Canvas' No. 1 as fomth
Lead in (heets ets m;
3 Casks of Cutlery afldrted Dat
A few chests of Mancheller Goods, aflbrted.thick
fets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black fewing-Glks
& Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Nails aflorted in casks
July t8 mw&f
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the bejl quality and on reasonable terms,
FOR SALE BY 1 AV.
Philip Nicklin & Co. Clt £ h °
August 46. dtf daily
For Sale,
AThree-ftory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second streets, in which ' -j- ( .
MefTrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and Ff
now do) carried on business. v ,;j( a
Possession will be given in one month, or sooner. Q e
Tor terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or the cl
HECTOR CALBRAITH. appr(
April 41. § Th
A Manufactory FOR SALE. P r ®^
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufaflory, situate acco^
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new, j^ur l
on an entirely origiaal conftruftion, and buile of the best J
materials, and may b- set to work immediately. Persons
who with to purchase, are requefled to apply at No. 273, a
South Second Street.
September 13. t, tf tf the u
• — ' 1 ~ requi
Brokers Office, and £
COMMISSION STORE. ggj
No. 63 South Third street, opposite the national himf
SAMUEL M FROUNCES and JOHN VAN REED, f crvc
have entered into co-partnerlhip, under the of ingh
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers, p]
Conveyancers and Gommiffion merchants. They buy and
fell on commiflion every fpecie6 of stock, notes of hand, n
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c f \T
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and XN
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the ' of tl
Bio ft correct manner. Constant attendance will be given, per c
They solicit a {hare of the public favor ; they are deter- if
mined to endeavour to deserve it. aStb
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed. aA,
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, fupj
JOHN VAN REED. publ
Phii?.d. August 17, I~qC m&wtf paid
Treasury Department, « £
September 28, 1796. " fe
NOTICE is hereby given, that propolals will be re- " 1.
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury " o
jfctil the expiration c? the firft day of March next en- " S
suing, for tkifupply of all rations which may he required " I
. for the use or the United States, from the firft day of " tl
June, 1/97, to the thirty-firfi day of May, 1798, both " o
days inclusive, c.t the places and within the diftriils here- " tl
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara ; at " g
Paefque lfle; at Sandulky Lafee, and on Sanduflcy " d
Riv«r; at Detroit; at Michllimacktnac; at Fort-Frank- " (5
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton; " e
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jsfferfen; at Grenville; at " t
Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at 5
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ;at any place bslow Fort Ink
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort me
'Steuben ;at Fort Maflac ;at any place from Fort Maffac fcr:
to the south boundary of the United States on the river po'
Miflifippi ;at Fort Knot; at Ouiatanon. ere
If supplies {hall be required lor any posts or places not is <
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies lhall be fur- gr:
niffied at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed cn /
between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be ftipplied are to coniilt of the fol
lowing articles, viz. tar
One pound two ounces of bread or flenr. ' or
One poutid two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of fU
perk or bacon. bo
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiikey. wl
' One quart and half a pint of falt.~\ m
Two quarts of Vinegar, I ]mM a t
Two pounds of Soap, ( t n i.
One pound of Candles, J
The rations arc to be ruraifhed in such quantities, as that fo i
there fball at all times during the said term, be faflicient iy
for the cenfumpiion of t'le troops atiMichilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, fer the term of fix months in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
at least three months in advance, in good aad wholesome
provifions,ifthefame fkall be required. It is to be un
derload, that the Contra&or isto beat the exj>ence and ,
ritk of iffuirgthe supplies to the troops at each pott, and 71
that all loflcs fuOained t>y the depredations of an enemy, or I
by means of the troops of the United States, shall be*paid
for atthf price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
Ihe ucpolirions of two or more persons of creditable cha
ra<3ers, and the certificate of a commifiioncd officer, af
certainitte the eircumftancep of tl- lots, and the amount
ef the w t;i lej for which comptnfatlon ihall be
OLIVER WOI.COTT,
Secfctaryof the Treasury. 1
t
.' ' „ .. . .. "
JOHN PvIILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. A CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late veils!s from Europe, &c. ''•
AND HAVE LOR SALE, r
I V general affortraent of GOODS, suitable to the season t ; mcre ,
Among a which are, lo J
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS, °Wh«
Plain and twill'd COATINGS, and cat
Rose striped 3Hd point BLANKETS, q c e,
FLANNELS and B A.ISES, 1
HATS assorted in cases,
IRISH LINENS, R .
INDIA GOODS, generally, At
A Consigned Invoice of IRONMONGEtvi,
Comprifmg a capital affortmentto open actore —incl-a- A
ding Thirty CsDcs of NAILS. This invoice will be foH Conta
entire on very advantageous terms. °'" 11
September 10. 1 '
— —— order
Lottery m
FOR railing Cxthoufsnd fix hundred and sixty-seven fides f
dollars and fifty cents, by a dedu&ion of fifteen per tor.
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz ment.
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000 any
1 1000 1000 FOR'
i 500 5 00 oned
5 aoo ioc 9 Mulb
20 100 4000
9$ so 495°
400 i,S 5 000 j TXI
2000 10 20,000 vv
5 Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars tich, 5000 Febri
mwnt
4331 Prizes. 44,45 0 other
4018 Blanks. out 0
. any {
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44*4.50 will]
By order of the Directors of the Soiiety for eftablifh
mg IKeful Manufaiftiifes, the fuperintenda.uts of the Pat- Se]
erfon Lottery have reqtiefted the Managers to offer the
foregoing Stheme to the public, atid have directed them
to refund the money to those persons who liaVe purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
1 in thisLotl;ery. _ offer:
The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will [ ts
contiti»e until finifteal. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes jy
may be seen at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64 p c
fomth Second street, who will give information where tick- r . v i_ v .
ets may bs procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- GUMMING, 7
JACOB R. HARDENBERG,> Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, J T Jf
dtfeo
ably,
Samuel Richardet, ~"l
TJ informs the Gentlemen Peni
tv Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY N
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the t o n
city of Philadelyhia: Esq.
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the ; n a
daily papers publifiied in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- p U ' D I
toil, Baltimore, together with those of the principr-.l com- yy a i
mercial cities of Europe—They will be ugularly filed at n(
J and none permitted to be taken away sn any account.
5 Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, IceCreams, The
d of French Liquors; together with the usual refrShments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicefl of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most •
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will be supplied with the prime and aarlicft
prsdu&ions of the'Seafon.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
;e accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
'' hours most convenient to thsmfelves—a cold Collation is 3
t«£ularly kept for conveniency, the Cillof Fare to be had wh
: s at tho bar. h
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniflied, and ;
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
•£5" Samuel Richardet will behappy to receive, and
execute the pimmands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
k- himfelf that nothing on his part ffiali be wanting to pre- 1 An,
3, s er ve that patronage With whieh he has been so distinguish- I p,
ingly iionored. I
■s. Philadelphia, April 19. mwf !
d ' Treasury of the United States. * Be
c f "K TOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or I
id JN may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
he 1 of the Funded Debt, or Stock, baring a pyfent int'erej! off'*].
:n. per centum per annum. J_ —
■r- 1 ft, That pursuant to an Ad of Congress palled on the
48th day of April, 179 C, intitled an aSt in addition to an
aift intituled " An act making fuither provision for the |
fup'port of public cradit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the said debt or stock wiU be reimbursed and I TJ
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends 1
- «C to be made ou the last days of March, June and Septenv M«
« ber for the prefcnt year, and from the year one thousand he
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou- I
re- " sand eight hundred & eighteen inclufive,at the rate of f
iry « one and one half per centum upon the original capital. I I
•n- " Seenndly, by dividends to be made on the last day of 1 ]
■ed " December for the present year, and the year one | <
of " thousand fevelS hundred and ninety-seven, to the year t ]
ith " one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at | ]
re- " the rate of three and one Jialf per centum upon the ori- j ]
at " ginal capital ;and by a dividend to be ma eoh the last
(ky " day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun- I |
ik- «di ed and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade- •
,n ; " quate, according to the contrail, for the final redemp
at " tion Of the said stock." I
at 4d. All diftinfiion between payments on account of
ort IrttrrH and Principal being thus abolilhed by the establish- _
ort ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abovs de- J
(Tac scribed, it has become necessary to vary accsrdingly the
ver powers'of attorney for receiving dividends; the public j
creditors will therefore observe that the following form j
not is eftablifhedfor all powers of attorney which may be I L
far- Tanted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz. jJ
the KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, tbut £
on / of ht
do male, conjlitute and appoint J
f©l- of * m y * rix an( i lot
tmcy,for me, and in my name, to receive the dividends ivb{ib are, I ar
or/ball be payable actording to law, on the (here describing the 10(
'» of stock) fiandv.g in my r.zmc in tie bqois of (here dcfcribing the j w
books of the Treasury or the Comniiffioncr of Loans, N
where the stock is credited) from (here mfert the com- 1
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of 1 .
. attorney is to continue) 101ith power also an attorney or attor- I
J ° nS nits under him, for that purpose to make andfubjiitutc, and to do all I
I uful requjfufor efeiimg thepremifes, hereby ratifying and J
that confirming all that my said Attorney or LisfubjlllutcJhM lawful- j
cient ly do, by virtue hereof. • I
De- In IVilnrfs hereof, I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal the I
h# in day of in the vear
El of Sealed and Delivered Ij,
some in prcfenctof, J [
e un- BE IT that on the day tf
e and efore me perfmally came j f
, and within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to I', j r
riy, or his a£i and deed. I
- paid In teflimony whereof I have hereunto set my Han i and affix- j
d, on ed Seal the day andysafila// afor.Jeeid.
e eh - (iiven under my Hand at Philadelphia, thistwen- j
;r, as- tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to dire&ions 1
aount from the Secretary of the Treasury.
dj SAMUEL MEREDITH,
% reafvrer of the United States. 1
iry. July «*. w *S* '* I J- I
!
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, High Street. J
G.'W. DavisJjegs to give this early information, that jj
his book, arc arrived per the Glasgow from Dublia, wn«dv , n No ,
added to thof: already received v t a NeW-York and Bal
timore, will enable , him to fofnj the moil cxtenlive cata
logue ever iniported into this country. rA ,
°When opened asd arrangad, notice will be pubiithed,
and catalog-aes delivered gratis.
~
Loft last Evening,
At Ricketts's Amphitheatr-, (ftippofed to be taken by
some villain out of a gentleman » pocket)
A red Morocco-Leather POCKE 1-BOOK., F or r
I Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes (h( .
of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 3°J an f ?° 6 ' f L .fl
ted i«h last August, payable 60 days after date, to the Sc[ .
" order of Paul Siemen, together for 5150 dollars ;an order
of Mrs. Ann IVacpherfon, from Paul Siemen, on Lach
lin Mac Neal, Esq. at Port-au-Prince, for 100 dollars ; be
-3 fidesfeveral letters and papers of no use but to the proprie
r tor The notes of hand and order are without endorie
ment. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD'is offered to s ,
3 any person who will discover and secure the thief, and 3,
o FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti- 8
0 oned nous and papers at No. 129, corner of Front and
3 Mulberry streets. d Q<a - "• —— 3
o " ~ NOTES LOST.
o TXTHER?AS two notes drawn by Benjamin Ha":ell
o : W and George W. Kirkland, dated Bollon, the 24th
o February, I )96, payable to Joseph May, ®r order, in '• 9>i
— months after date, one sot One 1 houfand Dollars, tire
o other Fifteen Dollars, were stolen with some other papers
out of a trunk on the Lancaster road. It is rcquefted that
any person tq whom they -aay be offered for negociation,
0 Will give notice thereof to the fubferibcr.
6 • GARRETT COTTRItfGER. finl(l
t- Sept. 30. ■ tickt
n A GOOD HOUSE,
■d for sale, i
ts THE' fubferiber, intent on moving to the country, J 0 j,
offers for l'ale, the HOUSE in which he now I'efides— y ar
II Its healthy and beautifuljituation.oppofite the gardens
es of Mr. Bingham, needs neither comment oreulogiura. R
4 Possession will be given on or before the 15th of the
ensuing month. T
b THOMAS TINGEY, ab *
No. i2i, South 3d Street. ing
He has aljS for Sale, arc
S " A fan all handsome assortment of work'd and plain tcrij
INDIA MUSLINS, which he will difpole of reason- 0
ably. dtf. Oaober 10.
""UNITED STATES, 1
n Pennsylvania Diftrift. 3J*
Y NOTICE is hereby given, 4hat pursuant to a writ T1
ic t0 rae , dire&ed from the honourable Richard Peters, V
Esq. Judge of the DiftriA Court of the United States, two
le in and for the Pennsylvania Diftria, will be fold at a C
,f " public sale, at the Custom-House ftot-es, in Front, below torn
Walnut-street, on Monday the 24th inft. at 12 o'clock
at noon. _
THIRTY BAGS COFFEE,
ty The fame havitig been libelled aiiainft, prosecuted, and
:S ' condemned SB forfeited in the said Diftria Court.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marlhal.
Marshal's Office, Bth«f Oflober, 1796.
!£ FOR SALE.
PORT WINE, and
be HOLLAND GIN, of the firft qualities in.Pipes.
at FRAUNCES and VAN REED,
is Brokers and Commission Merchants, No. 63, So. 3d St.
ad who discount approved NOTES of hand.
N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted. ~
o«l September r4. mwf j
icr — — 1 —; qui
Great is Truth and must prevail. the
nd f r
" JUST PUBLISHED, del
re. And for sale at No- 41 Cbefnut-fireet by J. ORMROD, no '
so " An Apology for the Bible, dri
1 By R. Watson, d. d. f. a. s.
Bijhop of Landaff, &c.
' Being a complete refutation of Paine's
ms A S e °f R^afon,
Jlx I And the only answer to the Second Part
I August 30. dt
the I
£ Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
the J No. 76 High Street,
»nd TTAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
nds li. the East Indies, a well felefled assortment of Silk
:nv- Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdashery Goods; which
and he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms ; c
ou- I AMONGST WHICH ARE,
: oft Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and fflver
tal. I Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto °
of I Do do do do Handkerchiefs *' K
one j Some extra black taffeties,luMfl.ringeand colorad Persians
fear j Bandano Handkerchiefs '
,at j Long and Ihort, Nankeens
ori- j Englilh Mantuas of the firft quality
last | Damaik table linen and napkins, very fine
lun-j Silk Hosiery, an elegant assortment
ide- Thead and cotton do
m P" 1 Umbrellas —green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
tof Irilh Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 § tl
lifh- '
d t c - F 0 R S A L E.
the t ~
AUc| A PLANTATION,
, be! A BPUT ii miles from this City, situate in Abir«g
■lZm J A ton Township, Montgomery-County ; containing .
, 170 aeres, a new stone houfe T two stories high, 2 rooms on a
a floor, fire places in each, a Hone kitchen and itone spring
1 house ? over an excellent spring of water, a barn, (tables,
j fhecU, barracks, S/.c. A large apple orchard, and a variety of 11
j other fruit, about 1a acres of good meadow well watered, 4
a ™y I and wood fuflicieut for fire, and fencing the place. PoftcfTi
gthe lon ma y be had the ift of April next. Property in this city 0
g the j taken in exchange, or MORRIS and NICHOLSONS c
oans, I Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Street. c
com- I Philadelphia, September 13, 1796. ttftf a
rer of J « f
Tail 1 To be. Sold, |
and jAt No. iaß, North Second-Street, and by feueral of ,
I tbe Apothecaries in this City. ,
J rr<RAN6FERS of the right to remove pains and inflamma
sal tbe I tions from the human body, asfecured to Dr. ELISHA (
1 PERKINS, by palent, with inftrumentsand directions ne-
I ceflary for the practice. This mode of treatment is particu
-1 larly ufeful in relieving pains in the head, face, teeth, brcait, '
j fide, stomach, back, rheumatisms, recent gouts, &c, &e.
Natwithftanding the utility of this praflice, it is not pre-
I fumed but there are cases in which this and every other
y j remedy may-l'ometimesfail.
I lime t. ..law
iajf.J,- J L_
twen- * ' To be disposed of,
ifiions HTHE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
j 1 has between f»tir and five years to fervt: She
I can be recommended for her sobriety and honesty. F6r
•atet. I particulars enquire at No. 132. Chefnut-flrtet.
IJ. I Aujyft j. wScitsf
t
U s iverfity of Pennsylvania,
Otlober 5> X 796.
Thi MedicaJLrflurcswill commence the firft Monday
in November. taw^w
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold Ly WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Second-Jlreet.
SCHEME of 1 LOTTERY,
. For raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of
ihc Leg i (Inure of Penniylvaaia, pnfTed during the lait
feflion, for building a Stoi.e Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. I>oiia»f
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars - 20,0:0
1 do. of ie,oco do. - - lo.coo
g do. of 5,000 do. - 15.000
4 do. of 2,000 do. - - 8,000
5 20 do. of 1,000 do. - 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. - - 10 50®
80 do. of 200 do. - - 10,000
i v 2®o do. of * 100 do. - - 20..000
300 dow of $0 do. - 15,000
• 1 do. of 500 .do to be paid the polTef- >
lor ©f the hrft drawn no. 5
11 5 do. of 3,000 do. to be paid poifeffors )
h of the five Jail drawn not J \5' Q0 °
v 9>1 00 *5 • 141,000
e'„ . "
10,051 Prizes 300,000
10,046 ttljuks —
it " T 1
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prices shall be paid fifteen days the drawing is
finifhed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
_ ticket, fubjeft to a ded'u&ion of,twenty per cent. The
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are disposed
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Witman,
Joseph Hiejler, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
~ James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Graejf,
13 Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, M«y the 91 h, 1756.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. a, to be had at the
above office, wherejtbs ear)i«ft inJormation of the draw
ing of the Wellington No. a, and Patterfon Lottery's,
are r&eived, and check books for examination and rcgif
n tering are kept.
a " October 7. 2aw tf
' 1
Wafhmgton Canal Lottery, i
'n 0 . r.
it TT THEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
s, VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
s, two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
at a Canal through the City of Washington, from th Po-,
w tomacto theEaftern Branch Han.our.
k The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -I Prize of »o,doo dollars, 20,000
x ditto 10,000 10,000
id 7 last drawn ">
Tickets, each f S >°°° 3S '°° o
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 ' 4,000
10 ditto 100 2,000
55 ditto 50 3,750
5750 ditto 12 69,0.-;8
• To be raised for the Canal, 26,250
5850 Prizes, 175,000
St. 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.,
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
<£jT The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
- quired by the' aforefaid adt for the pim&ual payment of
the prizes.
' The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as tin Tickets are fold, of which, timely
j-j notice will be given. '
' Suchprizes-as are not demanded in fix months after the
. drawing is finifhed, shall be considered as relinquished for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed ) NOTLEY YOUNG.
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
;'s LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M. DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
_ JAMES BARRY.
City of Wafhin ..oh, Feb. 11. 5
Lottery and Broker's Office,
. No. 64, South Second street.
THICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—*
• . 1 Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
' Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
[ ver the City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
i an j tickets. A com?lore lift.ef.»U Jhe prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubfariber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
* m * Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollnrs each, which will be drawn early in
e the Spring.
__ Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Au^uft-18, 1796.
FOR SALE,
ir.g- A very Valuable Eltate,
ning /CALLED T IVI TTEN HA M, situate in the
on a V_>i township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 1-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
ny ps new Western road : containing 230 acrcs of excellent land,
ered 45 which are good watered meadow, 9° pri me wood
tcfii- land, and the reft arable of the firft quality. There are
city op the prcmifes a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
ONS on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, ltables,
I and other convenient buildings ; a fitioke-houfe and {tone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing
nma The situation is plea/ant and healthy, and from the
LSHA cultivation of theland, the good and ..he.
s . ne " vicinity to the citt,' it is very suitable for a gentlemaa ®
rticu- t r . ' ■
(> country feat.
' j The foregoing is part of the. estate of Jacob Harman,
it pre- deoeafed 3 and ofiered for sale by
otiiei Mordecai Lewis,
Q<Sl. o. tt&i' Surviving Executor,
law
t wh( PRINTED EY JOHN FENNO,
: She No. HQ' —
'. F6r y
chesnwt-STRBET.
if [Priae Eight Dollars per Ar,n«ra.jf