ajette »/,& ptUtCilfmtfS, ir Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Kvm % TUESDAT EVENING. SEPTEMBER . 3 , .796-
1 1 ——— J«\ n r>r pi rt r T : (I. r, 4* 1 J A A.nf T C>\l7l O
FOR SALE,
—The Schooner LARK,
One Hundred and twenty tons burthen. 8.
A new vessel well found, well built, & P"®' 1
-" < '4' _ fails extremely fact. For terms apply w
to the matter on board, or to Wl "'
Joseph Anthony & Co. '
If the above vessel is not fold in a few days, (He will
take freight on very low terms for Boston.
■'. S ' pt ' °~ — . ■ - L»n<
FOR LONDON,
The capital (hip CERES, -
M foe»: —For freight or passage
pplv to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
John Vaughan,
September 10. Front-street.
For Sale or Charter,
THE SNOW
BOSTON, 51
BURTHEN tTbout 20Q0 Bbls. of ({our—(he may be sent
to sea at a .final! expeuce, her fails and rigging being in
■very good order—apply to
James Campbell, or
Gesrge Latimer.
April 19, 1 r
' FOR SALS, """
The {hip STAR, j
John Vannikan, Mailer, * *
ttjM T YING at Walnut-ftruet wharf, Philadel- '
JL-J phia built, of live oak and cedar, will *
» tarry about 3100 barrels, is two years-old, and in com- £
plea- order to receive 1 cargo—For tortus apply to
* THOS.&JO'HN KETLAND. —
Who have ilfo'i'or Sle said vtffels cargo—conOfting of—
Wine and Porter bottles,
Window Glass, 6 by 8 to ;6 by J*. ]
Pipes in boSes. ( j
Earthen-Ware ir. crates.
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, &«.
Aug. 19 ,
At South-street wharf,
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, iQth inft. Aoguft, —
by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and fl°®P Salty, A
from Port-au-Prince,
300 Hhds, COFFEE,
70 Hhds. SUGAR.
Also, the cargo of the Swedijh brig Gujfaf Adolpht, 1-
capt. Ram/re, from Gibraltar, he'
ift and /,th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds. ™
Hazle Nuts in sacks
St. Übes SALT, for file by c
PETER BLIGHT,
Jr- a For Charter,
* The,faidbrig
GUSTAF Adolphe,
A Swede, with a Mediterranean pa'fs,
. very f me velTtl, about soo tons bur- L
'then. '» We ° 2W W
For Sale or Charter,
THE FAST-SAILING SHIP st
light-horse,
LYING at Meir. J. & R. Wain's wharf,
■{K&and seventy tons burthen, a (lout, ftreng y
vessel, and well fOt.lL For terms apply to
Tofeoh Anthony & Co. t0
' Sept. I. , dtf ... «1
INDIA SALES. - I
ON ThurMay the aid inft. at 10 o'clock, A. M-wil, c
be fold at the (lores of Willing, and francs, a large «
quantity of INDIA GOODS, imported :n the Ganges, a
■ from Bengal, confiding of
3000 pieces Gurrahs ;]
•2000 do. Baftas, different kinds y
3500 do Coffas, do. t ]
450 do. Humhums, do. d
600 do. Patna hdkfs. for women c
100 ho- ' Addaties ' v.
fjo- da Table cloths ' „
, ~,;j60 do. Emerties
80 do Punjums .
300 do. Fine Mulmuls
200 do. Fine Dacca hdkfs. c
100-'1" nrnrkfd MnfljlU - —j.
100 do. Doreas ,
100 do. BAok Muslin
joo do. black and colored Perfuns or Tiffeties t
uoo do. Bandahnoes, chocolate, red and blue (
ieo do. Choppa Romals ,
40 quarter cafics of Hyson Tea of goed qeality (
40 ' Souchong (
The coarse goods v/ill be fold by the bale, the taffetas
and bandannoes in lots to suit the purchasers, the teas by ,
the chest. The whole is entitled tr the drawback, and will
be fold for approved notes, on a liberal crrdit. (
The goodsmsy be fcen from the 15% inft. to the day |
previous to thefale. (
JOHN CONNELLY, Aaioneer.
September 8.
Dissolution of Partnerfliip.
THE Partnerfbip between ROBtRI ANDREWS and
D AVID MEREDI TH. under the firm of ANDREWS
and MEREDITH, btin R dissolved All persons who are
indebted to, or who have claims agatnft the laid houle, are
jcquclted to apply for fettlemcrt to the fubfenber.
4 VV7 ROI'.ERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, So. Wharves.
Sept. 6,1 706. ~
TO BE SOLD.
That Neat and Convenient House,
tt THEREIN the now lives. There are lour
VV rooms on a floor v-the house is two (lories high
with a soodgarret above *. under the whole is fin exc-.'l
cpt cejlar, With a dry well, .in which is a convenient
framed chamber for preftrvir." meat, butter, &c. in warm
weather. Attached to the house is a Stable for three
horses, hay-los , granary, and carriage-house, a wood
yard paved with (lone, ar.'J a garden with loil of a nne
quality. An indisputable title will be made to the pur
chaser. For fartl.er particulars apply to the (uhfenber in
Princeton, or. in her ablenie ctj Thomas D. johnfon, t. r q.
•or the rev. Samnel S. Smith.
ANN WITHERSPOON.
Princctos, Aug 14. SawtO
A Hand fame, well-broke
SADDLE HORSE,
For Sale enquire at the Coneftcgo Stable's, the owner
having no use for him.
Aug. as n&tw
Evening School, 7
Wo. 201, ARCH STREET.
S. LEWIS refpeAfulty infsrms 'us friends and the
public, that his Evening School for Younc Gentlemen
will commence on Monday, Ilth September, for t<ie
winter season.
Sept. 8. I i 4
'"»• Sept
1 St. Croix SUGAR and MOLASSES.
— Landing from on board the fcliooncr Little Tom, Capt.
Thomas Dennett, at Rice-street wharf, Inc l -
A choice parcel of St. Croix Sugar,
and a. few hogsheads of Molasses. A i
\ For Sale by rX
Pragers and Co.
August 30 1Q
Just Arrived,
In tht Snow Boston, James KirkpatrUk, master from Li
verpool,
cooo Bnlhels SALT ;
100 Crates QUEENS WARE; and
~ An Assortment of SHIP CHANDLERY; Jur
forsale '
Onboard, at Pinc-ftreet wharf. Apply to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April 19. $
Washington Lottery.
THE Eighteenth and Nineteenth Days' Drawing of t D
the Wa(hi»gton Lottery, No. s, are received at the office t D
.1 No. 154, Market-flreet, where tickets may be examined. p 0
•jj B. Information given where tickets in all the othev All
lotteries may be procured. . „ —
September 9, 1796.
_ For sale by the fublcribers,
IN PlNt)-STREfeT, j
130 quarter Chests fre(h Hyson Tea;
joo ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing final! tea fettt of 4» 1
pieces;
400 pieces Bandanoes.
~ Willings Sis Francis. -
January * tt&f
lyi At a special meeting of the Board of Di
reßu*s sos eflabli/hing ufeful Manufactures, ho/den Fq
at Paterfon, July 8, 1796, au
RESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stack
holders of the Society be called on the firft Monday,
being the third ay of O&ober next, at PaCrfer., by wn *
of the clock of the fame day; then and there to take £\
into consideration the propriety of dissolving the said
corporation, agreeably to the law Ih such cafe made and ,v
provided—and the Stockholders are eameftiy requjfted p,
to attend the said meeting in person or by proxy.
August 17 dt3QthO
FOR SALE, —
,f s A Complete Font of Brevier,
ur- TTNtirely new, and yet unopened. The weight of this „
XL font is about 311 lb. It is from the'Foundtry of , }
— Wilson & Sons, Glasgow, and will be fold at cod & charges ", ,
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes. 1 " A
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the Unitde
States, 119 Chefnut-ftreet. Aug. 19 ]
„ f A very valaable Merchant Mill, Inc
' a DISTILLERY and BREWERY, and sundry STONE
il QUARRIES to be let.
I will rent my merchant Mill at the little Falls of Po
towroac, for any term not lift thanfeven, nor more than
eleven years, from the firft day of September next. The
mill-house is 42 by 40 feet, three stories high, built with
(lone, and has in it three pairs of French Burr Stones, two gra
will overshot 18 feet water-wheels, and Evans's machinery arK
irg e complete, with «very other thing proper and neceSary for h!
ges, carrying on thebufinefs with dispatch, and at as little cx
' penfe as pofiible, all in good order. —From the mill to my
anding on the Potomac river, (wher« craft, of any bur
then may deliver grain and take in flour) it is about 40 ~"
yards, and from thence by water to George-Town and
the City cf Wafliington, abeut 3 miles, and to Alexan
dria about ft miles. This fuuation, aided by a fuflicient
capital, will command the produce o(j a very extensive
back country, where large quantities us wheat and other -r
' grain is annually made, the diftante to it,being from 8 I
to 10 miles less than to any matket town up »n the navi- 0 f
gation of the Potowmac. There are on the premiles a a nc
large (lone Coopers'.(h Jp, a (lone granary, and a commo- put
dious miller's .house. At the landing aforefoid a bridge all
i& uo w_ iiiihJing aver the Potomac, which is in irreat for- kef
wardnefs and probably will be finiihed the erifuing fall. oui
There are also on the premises, a Brewery and Diftille- ~e'
ry, built with (lone, in tjiem are three dills, two copper#
or boilers, with every necessary article, all new, and in
good order, arid fufficiently Urge to carry on the Brew
's ery and Distillery upon a very cxteilfive plan. This pr»p
erty I wilt rent for the fame term of years.
C , 3S Upon my lands adjoining the premifes,'and along the
| s X banks of tlte river, where craft may lead with ease and difr
W1 patch, is an iaimenfe quantity of building and foilnda
„ , tion -stones. Four quarries are now open, and as many
" more may be opened with ease : the done taken from thefc
quarries is better, and has the preference at this market,
er ' to any other (lose brought to it. I will rent these quarries
— separately or together as may best suit.
On the top of the hill, and about 200 yards from the
mill, is a done Dwelling-house, large enough for the ac
-5 and commodation of a family : v also, a kitchen, dairy, smoke-
E W S house, &c. and a garden, ene'ofed and in cultivation, the
10 are f 0 ; 0 f w hicH is equal in goodness to any in this (late. 1
e ' are will also rent this property.
Adjoining to the Brewery and Didillery is a Smith's
(hop, in which is a complete set of Blacksmith's tools,
j'' t f which 1 will also rent, and if agreeable I will hire to the
—- tenant two negro blacklmiths, one of them is a complete q(
workman. C
E If I rent out the done quarries', I will fell three crafts, c(
' which were ljuilt for the purpose of carrying stone : they c
e :? 1 will altogether bring upwards of 90 perch Immediate fa.
-ctfl P°ff c "'. on he given. For terms apply to the fubferib- f {
er in this town.
The Mill, Brewery r.nd Didillery, with their appurten
varm anee9j w ;n (, e deliverad *0 the tenant or tenants in good
.voo" repair, and muil be so returned, at the expiration of the ''
r lease orleafts, .
a hne PHILIP RICHARD FEND ALL.
Al««ndti», Aug. 16— 25
ber j.n . . c
FOR SALE, '
5N- COFFEE, in hhds. bbls. & bags}
COTTON, of Demerara, and > entitled to drawback
SOAL-LEATHER ) - '
Also,
BOSTON BEEF, and Mould and Dipt CANDLES,
owner App'y to ISAAC HAPvVEY, Jun.
No. 5 south YYatv-fireet.
f-jw 8 mo. 89. $3W
JUST A R RIVE D, from Lijbon,
Altd for Sale by the Subferiberi,
e Lisbon Wine, nai
•< lo pipes and quarter-caflfs;
5000 Bushels Lisbon Salt. nTa'per
Jcffe & Robert Wain. Baftas.
- J •" Art Coffas.
' Sq»t- ">• Bandan
Sa'es of India Goods. Sept.
The Cargo of thefhip Ganges, capt. Tingejr, from Cal- '
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
A Large and general aflbrtment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS..
AMO.VG WHICH A*2 Tuly 1
A variety fine -worked and plain MuJlins,
Doreas, l!fc. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, -
; In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER*
l ~ For Sale by TJ A!
Willlngs & Francis,
J Mercei
No. »I Penn Street. he will
June S S
French Gqods. sup,
Rcceivid by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-df So{n
Grace, ' Ban
20 TrunVs ") Lad ; es . SHOES of all colors forts and Gzes
->- I Cafe j Eng
I Ditto white ar.d colored Silk STOCKINGS Dsn
I Ditto Fine LAWN Silk
. I Dittobefik fine CAMBRIC The
ICC I Ditto Ladies* best ihammy and Crenoble Gloves Um
' d - For Sale by THOMAS ic JOHN KETLAND. Fre i
ef au# 14 5 Irill
— Dutch Goods,
Rcc/iwd by the Pennfyhanu., fr*m Amjlcrdarr.^
GIN, in pipes in p»r
Morlaix 1 .
Ticklenburgs > In Bales
41 Ofnaburgs J
SS™ - } «"*- »" fa
Hollands ") DVCKJin ditto <
f P.avens i y
Bedticks, in ditto J
)i. Brittagne. ? in ditto
j Platilles j N
den For Sale by THOMAS JOHN ZETLAND. Jul
AUg. 29 5
ily, For Sale, /
wn . T h r ee story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
ake / street, between Front and Second streets, in which ,
fai(i MeiTrs. James Calbraith & Co. have fQT many years (and
ant ' now do) carried on bulinefs. A*r
lied Poffefeon will he given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or 1 £
3 HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April 21. 1 1 '
A Book-Keeper, An t
tf "f r\R Clerk's placc is wasited by a pjrfon properly quali- J
r v_ ) sic d, and whofc clura&er will be found uneiception- I
able. Aprly to the Printer. |
itde " -■ ~ Bei
L_ Phns of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Northesn Liberties and diltridl of I .
' Southwark, I A
Published, and fold by
po BENJAMIN DAVIES 9 By
shan No. 68, High ftrect,
The (Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 26 inches square, and has been en I
two graved by one of the firft artists In the city, from a Itote 1
nei T and accurate survey. Purchasers arc entitled to a pam- I p
:or phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the I
: cx * city, its population, trade, government, &c. tof ,
w y . Ju»r 19 tuf&ftf *| dua
- — *" I .at
and duty on carriages. U«
:xan- .
nfive Notice is hereby Given, I f c
jther 'T-'H AT agreeably to an aft of Congress of the United t he
am 8 i, Siaiet of America, passed at Philadelphia, the «Bth day 1
navi- of Mav, 1796 i laying duties on Carriages, for the convey- „
le« a ance of persons, and repealing the former acts tor that pur- mal
nmo- pufe.—That there (hall be levied, collefttd and paid, upon j
ridge all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which (hall be g
for- kept by or for any person, for his or her own use, or to let _
ill. oui to hire, or for the conveying ot paifeogers, the (everal du- I
ftille- '»« aa d rates following, to wit.
oners For and upon every Coach, 15 dols. I -r-i
up>n every Charioi, la dols. I
, upon every Post Chariot, se dols< J
' " upon every Poll Chaise, 12 dols.
f' rB P" upon every Phaeton, with or without top, g dols
, upon every C®aciiee, g dols. I
s 'f 6 upon other Carriages, having panne/ work above, I
1( 1 dif' w ith blinds, glaftes or curtains, 9 dols.
"nda- upon four wheel carriages, having tramed polls and I \
many topi with steel springs, 6 dols. I <
1 these -upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron | j,
arket, , fpriugs or jacks, 3 dole. 1 icx
arries upon curricles witn tops, 3 dols/ I
upon chaises with tops, 3 dols. |_
n the upon chairs with tops, 3 dols. |
Ie ac- upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols. I 0
rnolie- upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols. I
n t j ie upon two wheel carriages, with steel or iron springs, I
te I 3 <^°' s " I
For and upon all other two wheel csrriages, a-dols. I
. , , upon every four wheel carriage, having framed pods I mj
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols. | erl
tools, The Coll. ftors of the Revenue ot the 6r(l lurvev of the I so:
10 . j Diftrift of Pennsylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day Ito
Jiplete of September nt?xt, for the purpose of recr % tug the duties on j; n
Carriages, at No. »s7, in Race or SafTafras street, in the City I; n
crafts, 0 f philjdelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, E'q in the I
: they County of Montgomery ; and at the house of Abraham Du- I£o
tediate hois, Efq.in the County of Bucks; of wt ch all perfonspoi- I m
bfcrib- fefltd of f«ch Carriages are desired to If Q
Notice is also giVen, «
,Urte fj TO all retail dealers t in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri- I
' tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to them ; one li I
0 ie cencefor carrying on the bufmefs ot retailing of Wines, in a I
, . iels quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one j
l " licence for carrying OD the bufinets of retailing Spirituous li- I
' w quors in le(s quantities than 20 gallons, at the fame time and j _
at the fame placcs, by the officers legally authoriaed to graut
fuck licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeftor of the Revenue of tlie ftrft Turvey 1
twback of the dillnft of Pennsylvania. If
Office of Infpe£lion,at / i 3'
Philadelphia, 21ft J[uly, 1796. ) If
DLES. — j <
Jun. W ANTED, j i
treet. An APPRENTICE to the Prirting Bufmefs, 1
$3* Enquire at thi» Office. Aug. 19 i,
' I - ■
Mordecai Lewis
HAS tr)R SALE,
NANKEENS, long M A 1 0"-
China, well alTortcd.
Ouicijilvcr.
Diaper*
B&ftas.
Coflas.
Bandano Handkerchiefs-
Roll Brinsftone. „ ,
Sept. 6.
c A B L E S,
From 16 to 9£ inches, for faieby
Jeremiah Warder,
July II § No l» north Third-ftreefti
Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
tto. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latefi arrivals from Europe and
the East Indies « well fele<slcd afTortment of Suk
Mercery, Linen D'raperyand Hat>erdifhery Goods ; whict*
he will fell," WJiolefale and Retail, on the lowest terms ;
AMONGST WHICH AKt,
Some fine India muslins embroidered With gold andfliver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulnvul ditto
Do do <jo do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black taffeties,lut«ftringsand oolored Periianf
Bandano Handkerchiefs j
Long and short Nafcltctns
English Mantuas of the firft quality
Dsmafk fable linen and napkins, very Cne
Silk HoGrry, an elegant affbrtment
Thead and cotton do '
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'dde. and do deth
French cambrics, very fine
Irish Linens, do. &e. June 14 5
» • —— /
FOR SALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
In pijwt and hoglheads
Claret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Balket Salt, in hogsheads
Shot, Not. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Earl/ead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Rufjia. i'.;-barrels
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpohn canvae,
"SiTi plates?—An invoice Stationary, by
THOMAS 8c JOHN KETLAND.
'• July 19 -
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the bejl quality and en reajonable terms,
l } Ton saii B?
d ' - Philip Nicklin £3° Co.
A«guft «6. **tf
Great is Tsum and mutt prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for fttk at No- 4! Chef n-jt-ft reel by J. ORMROD,
1; . An Apology for the Bible,
°* By R- Watson, d. d. f. x. s.
Bijhop of Landaff, trf*. ,__ f
Being a complete refutation of Paine s
Age if Reason,
oft . And the only anfrver to the Second Part.
I August 30.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By-H.&P- RICE, No. 16, Second-street, and No.
50, Market street.
A VISIT TO THE
"el Philadelphia Prison;
7* I BEING an accurate and particular Description of the
I wife and humane Administration adopted in every part
I of that building ; containing also an account of -the gra*
I dual reformation and present improved state ot the Penal
Laws of Penofylvania ; with Observations on the injtif- '
I tice and impolicy of capital punilhmcnts.
Together with an Appendix,
I Containing tables of crimes, and quarterly flitements
of the expenditures of the Prison, with the amount of
ted t he labour of the convifls.
lay By a Gentleman of South-Carolina.
e >" « L a y the are to the loot and teach,governments hui»
ur " inanity. It is their fanguinarv punilhments which cor
rupt mankind." W" 'f **»•]
let Sept. 7.
dl " Lottery
I railing fix thousand fix hundred and fi*ty-feve!l
I A dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen, per
I cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz «
I I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
J 1000 IOO»
JVC, I JOO JOO
■ aoo roeo
and I 20 100 3000
99 SO 4950
iron I j 0 ® %S / J oo °
j 1000 IC,OCO
I j Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, scoo
j 1334 Prizes. 44,4Jt>
I 4018 Blanks.
nES ' I 6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44>4J®
I By order of the Directors of the' Society for eftablilh
pofts I mg Ufeful Manufaflures, the fuperintendaats of the Pat
iols. erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
f the foregoing Saheme to the public, and have diredled them
1 day I to refund the money to those persons who have purchased
■' on t hc former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
City I in this Lottery.
n the phe lottery hasafiually commenced drawing, and will
Du " I continue until ficilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prize*
P oi * I ma y befeenat the office o! William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who wili give information where tick-
I ets may be procured.
fori. Dated this 17th day of June,
1C li J. N- CUMMINS, 7
, in a I JACOB R. HARDENBERG, ? Mansgers.
1 one JONATHAN RHEA, )
ius li- I dtf eo
e and j , ' - ■ m
grant TAKE NOTICE.
1 1 THE fubferiber intends to make application for aA>
[urvey j L newal of the following certificate, supposed to ke
1 loft on the yaffage to England in April 1794 ;
I Certificate No. 10335, dated 15th November, 1793,
i for 2830 dollars and 91 cents—Sir per cent, domcitic
—— j debt, on the books of the Treafujy of the United State*.
I in the name of the Hon. John Trevor. 1
,r u 1 ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's.
v " I Philadelphia, August 50th, 1796. *w*f6wPVoiVi the FißMkß.'s Weekly Muslvm.
'* S/itly to lequiet, and to tie your vwn bujinefi."
THE Thefldilonians, to whom this rule was giv
en, were probably an inquisitive race, and, like the
men of Athens, fpe'nt their time in nothing elfebut
either to tell or to hear feme new thing. We mull
'frame fume such fuppefition, to excuse St. Paul
from the charge of impertinence : for nothing'can
appear more a wotkof supererogation, that to teK
iko, felfuh by nature, to live in peace, and to
pursue his own advantage. Nature, and the pri
mary laws of being, have told him so already.—
But this epistle, written at Athens, and sent to
Thefulonica, that is, from one tattling, idle city
' to another, was feal'onable and proper,-notwithftand
;:!£ all the fine reafoningto the contrary. Formy
felf, I can affirm confidently, that I nesd pot turn
jver the arehievesof the Thcffalonians to discover
a Eiillior. of cases, where men study to be reliefs,
and «'o pry into other people's business.
Impertinent curiofitv is, however, a vice of the
viihge, rather than of the city. I am futprifed
• that Paul did not give tM direction in my text, ex
pressly to the cauntry people. For, though imper
tinence is not To local at sever to be found except
in cottages, still it is a fa£t, that the alkers of whys
and wherefores are generally villagers, arfd not ciis.
In town, strange fights are so. common, and the
tongues of fame so numerous, that each inhabitant,
diftra&ed with endless variety, thinks it better to
mind his own business, than ;e infpeci the acncerns
of z thousand neighbours. In the country, /exter
nal cirtumftances begin essentially different; hence
the manners of the people assume a different colour,
There the incidents are so few on whieh glutton
curiosity can feed, that even morsel noveltits are
seized upon with avidity. A farmer's purchase of
a iilk gown for his wife, or the irregular pregnan
cy of his daughter, 1 have known. to engross, for
weeks, the thoughts and chat of-thofc vacant and
meddling neighbourhoods, which disobey the pfe
cept of Paul.
A certain elegant fabtiHft among the Latins, de.
fcribts a race ot the busy-bodies, tunning wildly
jibout out of breath with inquiring, prying into
every nook, and, by their restless indolence, wea
rying tjiemfelves and tormenting, others. This is
a strong picture, and some might fay overcharged—
a Dariy's caricature of manners, rather than the
natural strokes of an Italian. But I wist engage to
find the oiiginals of this>portrait in every village 1
visit. Men in the country, no less than in town,
have various schemes to execut*, and duties which
ought to be discharged. But, negligent of thsrfe,
and with the beam in their own eyes, they go'gr'op
ing about, to difcorer a ftiote in their neighbour's.
It is a mote, in general) that they gaze for most
earnestly, and it i 9 a mote that tbey magnify into a
mountain. •
This weak, if not criminal conduit, is generally
the firft begotten of jealousy aad rivallhip. The
malignant Inquiries that are then made of a neigh
bour'? fortune or fame, are veiled by an affectation
of impartiality and candour, But al! may discern,
that such insidious queries, 6re like attows discharg
ed from a covert, meant to deeply wound, and yet,
by their coutfe, not to betjay their archer.
What is it to thee, c«nforious woman, if thy
frgil filter has lapsed by the way fide ? Doth her
fall shake thy foundation I and haft thou to bear the
burden of her suckling ? Gaze not at her infirmi
ty, nor circulate her reproach. Con over the ca
talogue o£ own galantries, and, trust me, thou
wilt not have a moment left to read, or to coftpile
a scandalous chronicle.
What is it to thee, meddling man, if thy«eigh
bcur's goods be attached ? haft thou to pay the fee,
of the officer ? Keep thy ledger accurately, and
peep not into his day-book v Ask not of his ap
prentices hew'they fare at their mailer's board, nor
hpw many dollars he takes m a year. Study to be
quiet, and to mmo thy own business, and thou wilt
find that thou haft little leifute to take an inventory
of another man's wealth.
THE LAY PREACHES.
FroM th: N£rr-Tog.K JVeRjUd.
NO speculation at prefjnt gives so much satis-
HFadtion to the French nation and their fraternity
in this jottntry, as the expedted bankruptcy of
England. Thomas Paine has published a sixpenny
panjphlet to prove, that Great-Britain is "* on the
-verge, nay, even in the gulph of bankruptcy;" and
all the boyifn disciples of Tcm Paine ars gaping
with admiration at hiivrifdom. Indeed, Paine's ta
lents for willing for illiterate minds, has neverbeen
exceeded ; and his pecaliar expressions and eompa
rifons, which are jfdapted to ordinary capacities,
and the only merit of his writings, are fubftitutej
for gc*>d sense and found wil'dom. Paine is 4 man
little reading and erudition; but he m?.kes that
little go farther than any man living. In theologi.
cal matters, he has colle£ted Ideas about the bible,
that have been current among unbelievers for cen
mries ; and his objections to its authenticity, have
fcllbeen conlidered, by multitudes of philosophical
men, ages ago. Paine, so far from being original,
has not even the meiit of accuracy; for lie has
■made some gross blunders hi point of hiftarical fadt.
With refpeft "to his ideas of the Br»ti£h debt,
tie is nothing new, uirlefs it be his rate of progref
J :6 » »r._:Uiucreafe. The i_eafon why the expences of
every succeeding war ate increased and must incieafc,
an obvious one, and afubjed of common renaik!
The evils of com ing on war by anticipating the
revenues nf a nation, ale well known and umvcrfal
\y acknowledged. This fubjeft hag been well un.
tleritood and difcuffcd by many writers on political
•xonomy, particularly by Ivlt. Hume, in his chap,
ter.on public crctfk; Essays, vol. {. where Mr Paine
f.iaj had these evils more strongly marked and ele
gmtfy tafenbed, than be is capable of doing
He also find arguments in that philosophical
correci his own opinions iclative to the
e<,efl whieh bankruptcy wonld have on the English
. uion. That writer whs decidedly of opinion for
'K yearsago, thrt tile nation was hastening to bank
iftptcy, and t!iat the event was unavoidable; but
i> licad of believing this event would ruin Great
. Britain, by deliiojlng her crcdii, he is confident
' that it would ratlin cu%m;ntkcc credit.
|
'•; ~" ' '' ~ •'* : '•* •/'" '"' ->v.v .• < \ -">- O • \ '
' ■ , '*-'■■ ii'• ' 'M
y The Degree of Bachelorof Arts, was t'lep C j
,i faired on ll'aac Adam's, Poller Alexander, J. .i. !i J
!t Bacheldor, Eben. G. Bradford, Wm. L. Bradley, r
i, Richard Burroughs, Abraham Buttcrfield, Pinlar-jg
i- der Chafe, Abner Cheney, Benjamin Church, Sita -
r Currier, Moses Dow, Tihon Ealtnsan. Thomas G.
n Porter Foiforn, Randolph Fre-man, Da- ;
,e niel Gilbert, John T. Gilman,£amuel Hale, Wal- ■
e ter Little, W : 'iiam Niles, Parker Noyes, Nailiau .
Noyes> Theophilus Packard, Proctor Pearce, B.'.r- 1
:r rett Potter, Lincoln Ripley, John S. Sparhawk,
)- Nathaniel Storrs, Benjamin s>towel, John M. Til- j
11 lotfoa, Caleb Tomfon, Henry True, Levi White, ; ;
>- Tower Whiton. ■ 1
The Degree of Master of Arts, was conferred , ;
on Hyram Paytie, 1787 ; Rufus Auderfo.i, Na- 1
.- than David Hale, 179 1 » Asa 80l- ' 1
Ir lard, Samuel GeirilH, Asa M'Farland, Henry I
n Moore, Zephaviah S. Moore, Richard E. New
corn ;, Moses P. Payfon, Warner Rogiert, George 1
>, Woodward, Alumni of this College. ' j
A Valedi&ory oration, T. G. Feffenden.—/Phe 1
1- whole concluded with order and decency. <
r NEW YORK, Semptembdr id. I
I." UNHAPPY OCCIDENT. 1
e Last evening, as Mr- M'Gowen, grocer, in Li- ]
n berty-lireet, was drawing spirits from a hogshead, j
!, a spark accidently fell into the spirits and set it on i
f fire. Afarmed at this, he ran to get water, forget- <
e ting in bis fright to turn the cock, when the-flow- 1
J ing spirits communicated rhe fire to the hogfheaa. I
e Mr. M'Gowan, with his father-in lw, Mr. Welden,
- being anxious to extinguish the ftre, persisted in go
e ing down, and attempting to tutn the cock, when
1 the hoglhead burst, and set these unfortunate men in
Jlamcs, in which situation they continued seVeral mi
s nutes before any one dared to (trip them. On I
. having'their clothes taken off they were found to 1
e be shockingly burnt. By great exertions the build- j
r ing was fayed, , ' 1
1 Such accidents as these (hould operate as i cau- t
t tion to grocers n<st to draw ardent fpiiits by candle- i
> light. t
t
The fallowing it tqken from a Paris Paper of the
%lh of July, which toe received by the (hip Amity, '
CaJ>i. lietiderfanfrom Bourdcaux.
1 [Am. D. Ad."] ;
Army of tfye Rhine and Moselle.
r The Commander in Chief to the Executive Directory. ,
Head-Quartets at Offeriburg, 10th Meflidor
( 4th year, Juhc 29, 1796. t
Citizen Diredtors, I
■ I have to give you an aceount of the new fuC- e
" ccffes, which the army of the Rhine and Moselle 1
> has obtained upon the enemy since the passage of
1 the Rhine. '
9 The eftablithment of the bridge, which was
r compltated on the 17th enabled us, to make the ar
' tillery and cavalry pass. Gen. Ferinot went itn
- mediately to tbwards Maeleti and Gold- .
t fcher, in order to afcenain the march of the corps
of Conde, which after our palling the Rhine pushed
very hard towards Offenburg. General Defaix at- <
taeked Vleanuhl ; which he carried with the great- i
eft bravery ; The loss of the enemy consisted in 200
prisoners ; and the l»fs in killed aud wounded was
at least equal to that number.
On the Bth, the division of General Ferinot pur
sued his march against the corps of Conde ; he
crossed .the Shutter and marched towards Houg
horft and Langefhiaft.
On the fame day General 'Beaupois began his
march on the right bank of the Kintzig in order
to attack the camp at Wiltftedt': we met the enemy
at Goriih, ar.d obliged them to fall back with pre
cipitation to tlieir camp ; but when we came out
t of this village, the regiment of Cuirafuers of An- <
a fpach attacked the column in front with such fury,
f that they overthrew all what had patTcd the defiles,
s and who had not time yet to form, liotwithftanding
t all the efforts made to effect it.
The general of division, Beaupois, received 7
or 8 grievous wounds with the broad-sword, as like,
wife citizen Drouault, aid-de-camp to general De
faix. Two battalions of the 10th half brigade of '
light infantry, placed in the head of the village, by
a well airefted fire, soon put a flop to this attack.
Our cavalry soon recovered the momect of disorder
they ha« been thrown into j they in their turn at
tacked the Ouirafksts. wiA the" ~gt£atcii bravery,'
drove into.the camp at Wildftadt, and bro't
back 150 prisoners, and 60 hoiles. They march
ed immediately against the camp, from whence the
enemy was diflo with the loss of on; cannon
and feveial caifloaiis.
The brigade of general Saiute Suaanne marched
this day towards Heltzheim and Lingt, the troops
behaved with their usual bravery. Enough cannot
be said in praise of generals Lafaix and Beaupois,
' and Ihe adjutant general Decamp. The latter, ill
'crossing the Kintiig, feeing a grenadier, ready to
s (frown, threw himfelf into the river, and fwimmiag
1 preserved to the Republic, the life of one of her
1 defenders. The chief of brigade, Fouconnet, who
f was wounded in this affair, has dillinguifhed hitn
- felf in a particular manner. Two pieces of light
- artillery, got between the enemy at the time the
, Cuirafliers made the attack, but not a single gunner
quitted his piece. The drivers distinguished them
, selves by the coolness wherewith they remained on
- their hoifes, where without the lealt means o! de- 1
1 fence, they were exposed tothe swards of the ene
t my, who wounded feveial of them. • '
, 011 the 9th, the division of Feiinot 'marched '
aloiig the left bank of the Kintzig to -et into the j
r«)ad from Offenburg to Friburg, in order to threa- ']
ten the enemy tp cutoff their retreat in this puint,
e and to harrals them on the left by threatening Of
, fenburg with an attack.
i The red of the army marched.ia 4 columns for
1 the purpole of attacking the catnp at jSolbcl, before
- Offenburg. The Si ft commanded by general Le
eonrtbe marched by the road of Willladt, and was |
l to attack the left of the position in froilt. Adju-
J taut general Decamp was to gain the foot of the
- mountains, ii> order to turn the right, but befoie he
i began to att he was to reconnoitre well 011 his left, '•
: in order to be sure that general Wurn»fer's ar'my, 1
wiu& «M-iaewn to be it $ march, might norig.
' *0-
-vp
- , terwpt '.he march. Gci;cnu baioie iJUis«M'effls;c!i
i ! ed With the tbird again!! UrtafTen and Zitliem, In
, . unlet to oppose the troops that cams from ths
- r J tower Rhine : thtfe three corps were undo- tht
i ■command of Gener?.! Defray..
. i The tirll displayed behind, the village of Gr!ef.
. i fen within canuon ftiot of the cpir.p oi B:fTel, which
. ' was about, fifteeu thoufaivd men strong, coxpofed
i of part of the corps of Conde, of the troops of
. the Citcie and of some Aullrian corps, which for*
. 1 med the Cordon of the Rhinei
The second dire&ed its march to Appenwi*
, and was to have established itfelf behind the n;ht
of the camp, after having fectired their baek : but
arriving in rhe village they fuUni tLere the van of
. S one of the columns of the artpy of Wwn)C.*r
■ which came on in the-greateft hurry i.-i order to
form a junction at QSfentwrg with the corps of i!,»
Upper Rhine. Adjlitant-General Decamp at i-k.-
: ed the;n wiiti rhe gieateft audacity, and it laipri- * B
pulfid them by a cliargc of the cavalry mjd? by
: the lixth regiment of dragoons, and p?.rt of ths ,3
eighth t>f Chaffers. The iofs of the e'emy in
killed and wounded, was very confiderabie ; «■<
took from t hem about 100'horfes aid 150 |>ri«
ners. Night coming o», we were obliged to pulj.
pone the attack till next morning.
j The corps of Geqeral Suzanne fell in
likesvife with the enemy at UrtafFen,'drove ihem
off with the greatest frigor, and took about one
hundred ptifoners. Night prevented him likewile
froth pursuing his success. and the array remained
on the field of battle daring the most dreadful wea
ther; the enemy evacuated the camp at Bihel dur
ing the night. Seeing that it was impoiliole for
the enemy to form a junction with the corps w£/
Wurmfer, General Ferinot at day break-took pol
feffion of Gffenburg, and pursued the enemy, who
left, him two pieces of caanin and some oailTons.
Adjutant General Bille.venne pursues them in the
valley of the Kintstig with the light troops; and
the reft of tHe army under the command of Dt faix
ie marching towards Appenwii wheic N
there will certainly be a leiious engagement with
the reinforceiperits coming from the Luwcr Rhntp.
I cannot, citizen Dire&ors, fufficiently praise
the bravery of t"he troops and the general officers
who commanded them 111 all these attacks made one
after the other with -iroops not yet organized, but
who were nothing but detachments, joined by
forced marches Irom the different 4' ri 'ions of the
army, who were next to fend them for the passage .
of the Rhine.
The rapidity of this march and the several at
tacks as the neceflary consequences thereof, have
prevented the junftian of the two armies which th» ■>
enemy had on the Upper and Lower Rhine; and
the want of uniformity, which this must occaGoa
for some days ia their operations, promises us new
fuccelfcg. > MOREAU.
For Sale,
(Jn an excellent situation for ljufmefs,)
A three-story brick House and Lot of
Ground,
Eighteen feet front and twenty-five feet in depth, on
the South fide of Market nefcr Front-street» now iapofftj.
Con of Samuel Read.
Apply to
Israel Pleafants, or
Charles & Joleph Pleafants.
Sep,t. rj. dtf
.F 0 li 6 ALE.
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT H miles from this City, fituarc in Alhr.g
ton Townftiip, Montgomefy-County ; containing
70 acre*, & newlioac house, two ilories high. 2 room* 00 a
fljor, fire placcs in each, a itune kitchen 2nd l\one ffring
house, over aa excellent spring of water, a barn, itab.'es|
sheds, barracks, Sec. A large orchard, and a variety
other fruit, about 1 a acres of good meadow well v.jtrrcd t
and wood fufficient for fire, and fencing the place* Foffcfii*
On may be had the jft of Apnl next. Property in this uiy
1 will betaken in exclange, or MORRIS and NICHOLSONS
Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Strtet.
Philadelphia, Scpltmbrr 13, 1796, erod tf
A Manufactory FOP SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE NHnufa&ory, filiate
in a convenient part of tkfc--cjty ; the ork.i ; ew»
p on an entirely original conilru&ioci and best
materials, and may be set to work immediately
whowiihto purebafe, arc requested td al
South Second Street.
. September 13.
For the fdlo<win{ Pfl offices, -will ct ehjtd at
Philadelphia on Friday afternoon as sun-set •
! Mails from the fame Poj't-OJices will arrive on
, Friday morning—
Abbotflown, P. Hanover, P. ?!1 P.
I Abingdon, Va. Hagerftown, Md. Rockingham c. h. V
Barditesvn, K. Harrodfburg, K. aharpfbuigfa, Md.
' Bedford, Hancock, Md. Shepherd;}own,Va
Bath" c.h. V* [onefboro 1 , Ten. SpringfielJ, K.
, Bourbon, K. Snoiville, Tea. Scevcnlburgh, Va. N
1 Brownsville, P. Lancaster, P. Strafbilrg, Va.
, Carlisle, P. * Leefburg, Va. Staunton, Va. *
ChamberfDurg, P. Lexingten, K. Sweet Springs, Va.
■ Cincinnati, n. w. t. Lexington, Va. Taney-Towii, MJ.
Cumberland, Md. L«uiTville, K. Union, P.
1 Danville, X. Marietta, n. Ny t- Wslhineton, P,
Dowfiingtown, P. VtUlerftown, P. Washington, K.
Frankfort, K. AJartii.fturg, Va. Williamsporf, Md.
FreJericktn. Md.- Montgomery, c. v. Wihchefter, Va.
Gallipolis, n. w. t. Motgintown, Va. Weft Liberty, Vj. '
Greeufburg, P. Malhville, K. Wheelirg Va
Gettifburg, P. Va KVeodftock, Va.
Greenbrier c.h. v. Oldtown, \d. IWythe c. h. Va
Grecncville, Ten. Peterfburgh, P. |York P.
The MAIL from Lane-after, P. arrives at Philadelphia.
every Monday, Wednefd-y and Friday, at 6 P. t M. and
deles at Philadelphia the fame days, at 7 P. M.
* he MAIL* for Pottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon, and
Harrifburg, will dole «t Philadelphia, every Tuefdar.
Thuriday and Saturday, at.j P. M.
General Poft-Office, September 11706. d 4t.
. For Norfolk and Baltimore,
. The Sloop AONPsitUilL,
v J. OHN HAMLYN, Ma'fter,
fail in ail this week. Forfrcijht
P a^-C ! >PP>y tc [ he Capt. osl
: No.th fide ot JKSSf. and' ROBERT,
.v'alrii wharf, or 10 the Subleribcrj,
I'/oa bat e now hnding from faii Slocf,
P fcv. HHrl...'of high proof Antigua RUM.
The NONPAREIL is intended as a conllant tracer, be
tween 8 liimoie and.Fhiiacelphia, it fuiiable encoiiragcrofnt
it received. \
LEn HOLL INC-SfVQRTH, & SON.
. £rptcni.:r 13, i7cs. 55,__ i-»iV>illT° --- ■■ - ■ r , I. II llUltpui^i,^^^
Philadelphia,
• TUESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 13, 1796.
JT is hardly necessary to fay, that the paragraph in
the Aurora of this morning, which contains some allu
sions to Mr. F ■■■•■,' is a tissue of fallhood and mii
representation.
Yesterday arrived the (hip Independent, Capt. Cath
' • cart, from, Algiers, Alicant, and Liflaon. She left Al-.
giers the 10th of May: The captain informs, that be
rare he failed from Llfbnn (50 days ago) letters were
received from Italy informing, that ths Britifli mer
chants at Leghorn had embarked with all their proper
ty, on hoard of 39 fail of shipping, and that a large
iiotly of the French troops soon after marched in and
{00$; pofii-fßon of that city. [June 17. See Boston
f *" 'jucjubt ii» j'fifleraays.Ckacus.]
By the brig Betsey, from Lifhon, letters have been
received in this city from Algiers, dated June 16, from
one or which the following is an extfail : " The
plague still rages here, Nicholas Hartford, Abraham
Simmonds and Joseph Keith, have died of it ; Benja
min Lunt, and John Thomas, are in the hospitals,
among others of cur unfortunate fellow citizens—of
whom ninety remain still here in captivity."
The (hip William and Henry, with 250 paflen
gers, is arrived at in 42 days from
Ireland.
Doctor Franklin's Simile of the Cart is Well known.
Its inapplicability has been dernonftrated.
Here follows another, written also by an enemy to
a balanced government; It appears to carry its own
confutation with it. .
■» \
From the Probationary Odes of Jonathan
Pindar.
From Ode iiv.
THE DUTCHMAN AND THE SKIPTLE-STONE.
NOT far from Albany, among the Dutch,
, A Jk'.pple-Jlotie is us'd to balance weight
On herfeback borne ; this balance is just such
As Daddy Vice requires in every slate.
A Dutchman who to mill went, every week,
Withfack half fill'd with wheat, &. half with (lone,
Was on'-e advif'd a different eourfe to leek ;
Double the wheat and let the (Tone alone.
The boor with wonder Hare?—takes off his load,
Throws out the (lone and fills the sack with grain,
Divides it equally, and takes the road. .
" Dis meal'two Weeks mine household will main
tain,"
( He cries, exulting—but a sudden- thought
Soon turns him back.— Again lie tjkes the sack,
And emptying half the Wheat as he'd been taught,
y ■ Into its place the fkipple Jhne p its back ;
Thus mutt'ring to himfelf, as he was wont,
*• If efts been right, mine fader would a don't"
Good folks—the moral's easy to apply ; \
Go, copy mother Britain all your days 1
Keep her example ever in your eye,
' Her follies mimic, and chant forth her fraife.
Remarks on the Abo-jt.
In France they lately hada fkipple fiom,
The democrat.Convention bag to poi?e ; 1
A weight kept each rising member down,
By taking off his head, fans form or noise.
This was Robespierre's infernal crew,
Who govern'a France witti democratic rage j
Jufl such a scene th' United States would (hew, .
Should Jacobinic systems curse the age.
Divide the meal, 'tis wisest, cheapest, best ;
It gives to liberty a double chance !
A (itigle house is a machine, a pell—
Thefkipple prov'd a miliflone weight to France,
from tie QUEBEC GAZETTE, Augufl 25.
The following addrefles were presented to Colonel
England and Major Doyle of his Majefty'i 24th
regiment, previous to the evacuation of the posts
\ o( Detroit and Michilimakinac.
To RICHARD ENGLAND, Esquire, Lieu
tenant-Colonel of his Majelty's 24th regiment
of foot, commanding Detroit aad its dependen-,
ciee, &c. &c.
■ Sir,
THE merchants and inhabitants of the town of
Detroit, impressed with a lively sense of your r.eal
ous and indefatigable exertions towards the promo
tion! of their general welfare during a period of
four years, beg leave to offer some testimony ot
their approbation, and to thank you for ihe encou
which y„ ur command tills
conferred, as well on the commercial at the general
interedsof this settlement.
Although the Indian country has Ufcen involved
in hostility, and the natural turbulence of the In
• dian character been irritated,, by enmity and re
venge; yet the property of the 'trader has been at
well secured from depredation, ar.d his life as invio
late from insult, as in times of the moil profound
tranquillity ; and latterly, when a well known cause
had aimed placed this country under the mod un
propitioits circumstances, which the horrors of war
can impose, we have reason to believe that your
wife and temperate measures landed in no incQcfi
derable degree to avett the calamities of impending
misfortune.
Advantages of such an ir.eftimable nature are
not the produftlons of chance, nor the common
phenomena of natural causes; we therefore assume
that they are referable in a high degree to the a&-
ive vigilance, wisdom and humanity of your cha
ra£ler.
The affable and polite deportment of the officers
of your regiment eptitTe them to our warmed ac
knowledgments; and'tothofe of the royal regi
ment of artillery and engineers, our thinks are e
qually due.
Captain O'Brien will long be remembered for
his readiness and affability in the duties of his office
of (fort adjutant—Be pieafed also, Sir, to fignify
our thanks to the non-eommiffioned officers and
fc.ldiers of the 24th regiment for their orderly be
havior.
That the 24th regiment may always enjoy honor
and diftinflion, and that yonrfelf and family may
ire blessed with all the comforts of dcmellic happi-
Oefs, is the ardent wi(h of,
&> St r,
Yopr mod obedient humble fervantl,
[Signed by forty of the inhabitants.].
Detroit, 6th July, 4796.
"i -■? ' • I'- «"'•
\ '
To the Merchants and Inhabitants of the town of
Detroit.
Gentlemen, * 1
ACCEPT my warmed thanks for your very pp
lite address. 1
It is a matter of no small gratification to me,
to find my conduct, during four years residence
here, so highly approved by those I so mueh esteem.
I have communicated to the officers who com
pose the garrison, and to Captain O'Brien, the fa
vorable fentimentß of approbation expressed in your
address, who all feel much flattered, and are very
fenlible of this mark of your friendly attention to
them.
I (hall always feel an intered in your welfare,
and will esteem it a fortunate circumstance if my
situation fliould ever be such as to afford me an op
portunity ot /hewing you how much I, am,
Gentlemen,
Your much obliged,
and very obedient humble
(Signed) R. ENGLAND,
* Col. Commanding,
To William Doyle, Esq. Major commanding His
Majesty's Garrison of Michilimakinac, Captain
ih the 24th Regiment of Foot, and one of his
Majefty'i Commissioners of the peace for the
county of Kent, Wettern diftridi.
Sir,
WE the merchants, traders, and inhabitants of
this pod, cannot fee without great regret, the ap
preaching period of your departure.—The impar
tial manner in which you have fupportcd, and pro
tested the trade of Hbi's place, during your com
mand, with the invariable propriety, in which you
have jfted as a Magiltrate, has induced us to offer
you in this public manner, our sincere thanks.
The officers and other gentlemen of your de
tachment, from their affabiliiv and politeness whilst
amorigft us, merit our particular thanks, which with
your own great attention, call forth our warmed
acknowledgements, a true sense of which we beg
the favor of jrptt to intimate £0 them.
Wishing you and them a prosperous and pleasant
- passage to Lower Canada, we have the honor to be
most refpe&fully.
Sir,
Your much obliged,
and very humble Servants.
Mickilimnhnac, 16th July, 1796.
(Signed by fifty-eight Inhabitants.)
Michilimakinac, 26th July, 1796.
GINTiKMEN,
THE very fluttering manner you have this day
expressed your approbation of my conduct, and re
gret at the near approach of my departure from
this poll, will make a lading impression upon my
jnind.
The few difficulties I have during the
time I have had the honor to command, can be on
ly attributed to the advice, and uniform support j
have always experienced from you, for vxhich i beg
you will accept my grateful thanks*
The Officers of my detachment hare requcded
that I would inform you how very feiifiWe thej are
of the obliging manuer yau have conveyed your
favourable sentiments of their condudt.
Wishing that every prosperity may attend the
Canada Fur trade, I have the honor to-be with eve
ry fentiinent of regard and refpeff.
Gentlemen your much obliged,
and very Humble Servant.
WILLIAM DOYLE, Major
Capt. ,24th Regiment Commanding.
To the Merchints, Traders and inhabitants of
the pod of Michilimakinac.
BY THIS DAY's MAIL.
PROVIDENCE, September 8.
By the most accurate accounts received respec
ting the votes for the choice of a Federal Repri
fentative, in the room of the Hon. Francis Mal
bone, it appears that
Mr. Champlia has J 377
Mr. Greene l^2ol
Scattering - 20 J '34*
Mr. Champlin's majority 35
Mr. Bourne is without oppofitioa.
NEW-YORK, September 12.
Extn& of a letter from a merchant in Stratford,
(Conni&icut) to his friend in New-York, dated
9th inft.
" I have been op part of the night in confe
queni e of an alarm from Newfield, occasioned by
the most (hocking tranfaftion 1 ever knew in thip
town. AHont ten o'clock at night, the dore be
longing to Mr. Isaac Tomlinfon, which we used to
OCT upy, was discovered to be on fire ; the neigh
bours were called, and put it out, when they found ;
a boy lying in the (lore was murdered, by being firft
knocked in* the head with a (hoe hammer, and then
his threat cut. The (lore was robbed of a sum of
money, which Mr. Deferred, the owner, fays, was
about one thousand dollars. The inhabitants mus
tered out in all direfiions—two came to me, and I
got a number out from here, and sent to dop all
the passes, to prevent, if possible, the escape ef the
villain or villains. The store was set on fire, no
doubt, to prevent discovery. It is. fuppefed the
b(>y let some perf®n or perfons.mte the store, as
there was (landing on the counter, near where he
lay dead, some liquor, and the nppearance of some
one having been drinking. The boy was (Jreffcd,
artd with his hat on. I have as yer, this morning,
heard nothing further of thi6 melancholy bufinefa."
Extract of a letter to_a friend in Salem, dated Bil
boa, July 1.
"The public news here is, thlt the National
Convention have petitiort the king of Spain for li
berty to march 70,000 men thro' Spa in into Por
tugal, Captain Eainey has taken the command of
three frigates, and failed for Cape-Francois. I fell
in off Cape Ortogal with 1 v fail of the line, by whom
I was boarded, and treated very politely, morefo
than I have -ever been by the English. This fleet
were in pursuit of 8 fail of the Enghrti, l'uppofed
to be cruifiHgoff Cadiz, forGx fail of the French
who are lying in that place,"
<v
%> v .
We are authorifcd to inform the public, that the
two commifliouers for fettling the true St. Croix L
river, as the boundary line between the United p
States and the Biitifh territories, have chosen Eg- o
bert Benfon, Esq. one of the Judges of the Su
preme Court in this Hate, to be the third commif- ti
lioner; and have dispatched n veffei to this port to
conduct him to St. Andrew's, where they are to
convene, far the accomplishment of the bufinefa.— B
The e'xprefs has arrived here. Judge Benfon is ab
sent in a northern county, aniadvices are forward
ed to him. Whether he will accept or not we can!
i not inform the public.
It gives us pkafure to heat of this amicable a
, greement of the Commiffioiierj, and to know that
r they have fallen upoa so diflinguifhed and impartial S
a m in as judge Bcnfon. S
From eaptain Tailman, of tke brig Commerce,
arrived on Saturday from Cadiz, which place he ir
left the 29th July, we learn, that a few days be
fore he failed, a French cutter arrived there with a S
Portagueze prize, laden with wheat, from Barbary C
, bound to Lisbon. The French vefTel obtained o
much credit by carrying in her prize through the p
i English fleet, which was llretcbed across the bar- v
1 bour.
1 By la gentleman, pafienger ir. the above brig,
: we are informed x that'fuccefs still attends the J
French army in \ Italy. Mantua, Placeiitia and
fomeother fortreffes had fallen into their hands.— 5
F He confirms the arrival of the French at Leghorn,
but fays, that the Eiglifh merchants there had con- '
veyedmolt of their pcrfonal property t6 Venice and 5
and Corsica, and their immovable property they had
afligned over to merchants in Legh ore, that it (
might appear Tuf an propjrty.
MORE,OF CAP TAIN BAR NET.
Brig Commerce, captain Isaacs, arrived on Sa
turday from Baltimore. Off Cape Henry, was
boarded by the Prevoyants, in company with the {
Refolufton and Topaz; the officer who boarded, )
1 informed captain Ifaacß,-that they had taken cap- L
tain Barney and his fqusdmn.
t PARIS, July 7.
•• AR MY of the SA MERE and ME USE. (
Head-Quarters, Neuwied, July 2. (
JoVRDA*r t commander tn chief, to the Exe«utive
Dire&ory. a
Citizen Directors,
I have the honour to inform yon, that the divi
sion of the army under general Klebei, left Duffel ],
dorT on the 28th of June. The division underge ]
rieral Grenier passed the Rhine at Colognt on the
29th, and joined tl.e tf»oops under Kleber. This J
corps arrived en the 30th as Sieg, on the left bank
- of which the eijtmy had Rationed about 1200 light'
1 troo»8. Adjntant-genual Ney attacked with his -f
v ufua! impetimfity, took about sixty of the ca
valiy, bdides killing and wounding a tolerable num '
e ber. The lb:* regiment of ChalfeHis exhibited the
- ilrongeft proofs of courage in this action and per- 5
I foriHed all their movements with the greatest celerit)
> and preiifion. ' , , 1
General Klebei* halted, otr the Ift of July, or
3 thel«ft bank of the Sieg, in order to wait the arris
val of provisions, and to give time to general Le- c
r febvre, who had dtreftcd his march to Siegen, Ui
reach the place of his defoliation. This division oi f
t the aimy had ordtrs 10 advance this day in front of [
- Ukeradt.
In order speedily to eflefl my junction with ; gen. t
Kleber, I made that division of the army which was -
encamped between Coblentx and Andernach pals
the Rhine this morning. The paffsge was perfor
med in prefencc of a corps of 5 or 6000 men ; the
f whole of which would have been made prifonrrs of
war, had it been possible far the cavalry to qryfsthc ,
liver footer. As it was, we took two pieces of j
camion; and about 200 prisoners.
To morrow I fhsll have the honour-to fend y4B
the particulars of this affair, in which ieveral regi
ments and several officers distinguished ihemfelves. ]
I have ordered one column to march to Monta
" jvautft', and another tq ThierdofF. I hope to mor
row to be able to join general Kleber, and I {hall
then endeavour to bring the enemy to a general en- I
gagement, Greeting and refpefl.
JOURDAN.
GAZETTE OF THE VNITFD STATES MARINE UST
PHILADELPHIA, Stplmler 13.
! ARRIVED.
Days
Schr. Betsey, Baruet, Virginia 3
Pinero, Carvello, Ports-Rico 20 ,
Winfield, NJ'Neane, Richmond 3
3 Sloop Nonpareil, Hammett, BaltimoVe 12 |
Phoenix, Tennifs, Norfolk 4
Sally, Gault, ' Virginia 2
~ PoUcrft Independent, Cathcart, Lifbca
Schooner Maria, Hudgen, Virginia
Mary Ann, Swail, do.
f Sloop Ann, Corbin, Watson, do.
Arrived at the Port.
3 Ship Dominirk Teny, Kingston
Brig Minerva, Quandrill, , do. '
, Schooner Hope, Farren, Cape Francois
Sloop Nabby, Bingham, Bermuda
Hannah, Dunton,. Cape Francois
CLEARED
; Ship Margaret, Babcock, New-York
5 Snow Mercury, Keawn, Cork I
■ Biig Abigail, Lakes, Leghorn ;
Planter, Hawkins, St. Croix
' Sally, Hayes, n, Antigua
J New-York Packet, Strong, Charleston
John Henderfon, W hitej Cambden
Susannah, Parrock, St. Christophers
A6tiv&, Bemiet, New-York
1 Schooner Two Friends, --Foster, • St. Thomas
lnduftry, M'Kean, Jeremie
Comet, Carson, Richmond
Prudence, Deming, Baltimore
Hannah, Hammond, Boston
Sloop Laura,. Bunker, New-Ysrk
Sally, Hall, Baltimore
The brig Induitry, Ca;*. Stewart, belonging to '
Philadelphia, was run down by a Spanish Frigate 1
in Cadiz harbor, about 24th July, Captain, Crew,
and part of cargo saved—vessel totally loft.
Capt. Cathcart from Liftjon, informs, that the
U. S. brig Sophia, Capt. O'jrien, arrived there
previous to his iailiag, in 24 days from the Cape?
of Delaware. "
The Ship Friends Adventure, Caldwell, of Bal
timore, had failed from Li(bon for, Cadiz.
New-York, September 12.
Brig Fanny, William*, Grenada
Commerce, Isaacs, Baltim r
Diana, Pratt, Anii.a') ! 7
Fi.cc 1 e, Harvey, M ,n>e-o Bay
WeftmoreUnd, Troop, Jirrtai. a 23
Trio, Smith, St Thorn >3
Mible, Reynolds, Savanna-la Mir. Jim
Sc'nr. Sally, Chriilie, Gonaivfs 14
Sloop Bet fey, Hevrlrieks, Guadaloupe.
The i'hip Pan Mary is fafe arrived at Liverpool
in 25 days rom this port.
Brig Fanny, Captain Cofnvri ;ht/rom Grenada,
Sept. 8, spoke the (loop Harriot of N. .v-Y k,
Captain Navarra, bound to Philadelphia, difmaited
off the rapes of Delaware, c?pt. CoTswig lit ex-
I pe&ed (he would get within the Capes that e
■ venjfg.
Alexandria, Sept. 4.
, ARRIVED.
• Ship Parkman, M'Mitlan Ant'jua
Pomona, Haywood Cadis
. Brig Martha, Atkins Bo if on
, Leopard, Putnam Salem
Schooner John, Blocker Marblehead
Sloo'jp Nancy, Ward , A igiii f
K&jmonys Elfwood Philadelphia
CLEARED.
Ship Potowmac Chief, Mag ruder ( Europe
Lexington, M'Keiucic do.
. Brig Martha, Atkins Baltimore
j George, Quirk Weft-Indie®
. Sally, Rutherford t do.
Schooner Dispatch, Moore <so.
Sloop Diana, O'Mesta do.
Folly, Mann <Jo.
Norfolk, Sept. 5,
Yesterday morning arrived here (he bi igDryadeg,
Capt. Eldridge, in eight weeks from Havfe-de-
Graee.
At the time Capt. E. left Havre, best (lour fold
at 5 and 6 dollars a barrel, andevery other kind of
provisions equally lon'.
A ship anived yefterdfcy from Boston, spoke in
long. 67, 30, lat. 38, 40, the (hip Liberty, Thomas
Berry, master, from New-York sot Leghorn.
ARRIVED.
Schooner Charlotte, CalifF Nevis
Ranging Polly, Southwick, P. au Prince
Mary Ann< Homer St. Croix
'Sloop Barrett, Newcomh Grenada
CLEARED.
Schooner Ranger, Brown Barbadoel
Baltimore, September 6.
ixtraS from the of the ship Charleilon.
July 25, spoke the Adriaoa, of New York, fron*
Barcelona, bound to Guernsey, out 40 days.
A ugtaft 16, lat. 1 42, 36, long. 46, spoKe
ship Echo, from Bouidatx bound to Philadelphia, ■
out 34 days.
Au f ;uft 28, lat. 37, 17, long. 65, spoke the
snow Eliza, capt. Benfon, 44 days from Liver
pool.
Augufl 31, lat. 37, 20, parted company with
the Eliza.
HIBERNIAN SOCIETY.
A QUARTERLY MEETING of the Hibernian
Society for the Relief of Emigrants from Ireland,
will ba held at Mr, M'Shar.e's tavern, ip Third-street, on
1 Saturday the 17th inft. at seven o'clock in tht Evening.
MatuHJV
I September 13, 1796. dj
P. S. It is particularly requested the members will be
pundual in their attendance.
. THE PUBLIC '
1 1S hereby cautioned not to trust any person or
on my rccount, under any pretext whatever, isf
{hall not pay such debts as may have been, or hereafter
may be contracted without my knowledge.
THdMAS H&GGARD.
Sept. 13. tt&f
NANKEENS,
Cf the frjl quality, FOR SALE RT,
RI) and JAS. POTTER.
For any quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, a li»
beral credit will be given. rf R. &J. P.
September 13. T. tf
5 The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif>
bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
\ a 8 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanish wool
' 3 do. of Annifeed
1 700 c IVuthels of best Lifboti Satt
80 Boxes of Lemons
For file by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
, Seventy Hogtheads of prime JAMAICA SPIRITS»
received by the lSip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart,
s from l^ingfton,
I FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED TIV ITTENHA M, situate in the
township of Upper Derby, p.ndcoanty of Delaware,
7 i-Z miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
new Western road! containing 430 acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood*.
land, and the reft arable of the firft quality. Therejre-
on the premises a good two ftoy brick house, -with 1; rooms
s 6n a floor, and cellars ur.der the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent watan; in front; a large frame liam, (tables,
and other convenient buildings ; a and Hone,
spring-house ; two good apple Orchards, atld one of peach
es. The fields are alfin clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
I of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant and healthy, from the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
c country feat.
' The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
e deceased, and offered for sale by
, Mordecai "Lewis,
0&.9. tt&f Surviving Executor.One 'Hundred Dollars Reward. | J*"*
STOLEN, I
From the Comp ting-House of RALPH j
No. 12, Quarry-Jlreet, an Saturday or Sunday night 1 ce jp t f or
laji, the J lowing Notes, &c. if any pi
collars. I purchase
John Nichclfon, to Moorhbufc, djie N»v. I
I, 1797, bearing interest, - - 5 00 ° - I dedudk
David Ailaoa to James Cramond, due in ldlt isau
March last, ■ - 4°75 I Mediate
W: &W. Gibhs to Ralph Matter, at 70 J Gi
days, Aus;uft 20th, - 1681 |«
Ferdinand Gourdon to Ralph Mather, at four j
months, Augull 17th, - - J
Benjamin Chamberlain,at 60 days, August 6, 53 I
Affleck to toe. Bufwell, at 6 months, dated 0.1.j..
Ma T J - - - 180 641
Parker and Greaves to Ralph Mather, on de- I °J c
mand' ... - - To ° I °J t
A bill by Harford to Harford, not accepted, lßrl. Iter- J
Like wife, the Titles cf some Eftatea, Mortgages, See, I ~
Whosoever brings the thief or* thieves to jaftice, shall J »-
have the above reward. , J t
As the papers in oueftion can be of no life to any other I t
person, the bills having been {lopped payment, re<juell I £
'he perpetrators may be searched after with all knagina- ! —
ble care, I T r.
September 6. ' tw&f6t J
For Sale, 3
A LARGE ELEGANT AMD Weil TINIIHED I j
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart) j j
a LOT ef GROUND thereunto belonging:, %
W the weft Tide of Third-street, near Union-street %
containing in front 31 feet, and in depth too fee*, to an J
alley leading into Unioh-ftreet. The house is 32 feet front I
and 50 feet deep ; the federal rooms contained in it are I
large, commodit ds, and completely finifhed; the tr/onrft J
llories are each 13 feet high; there are 20 mahogany j
<loors in the house ; a geometrical flaircafe, with niahoga- j
4iy rails and a good ficy-light. The kitchen is in the cell-I
ar, is spacious and convenient, and uniflied with an I 3
oven, stew-holes and pantries, a servants' hall and large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of whicn is an I
area in'which there is a pv.mp. The yard is vaulted, j
Communicating with the said building is a neat three-itory j
brick house, on the north fide of Union-flreet, contain- |
ing 30 feet front by aO feet deep; the lower part of which 1 -j
is at present occupied as a ccmpting-houfe, and the upper J
?art divided itito well-finilhed large chambers, a his house j
riay at a small eipenfe be converted into a convenient j
dwelling : The Greet door is very handsome, and the front; J
and back have Venetian window-lhutters. Adjoining the
lafthoufe, upon the lot belonging to the firft,'are ere&td
bathing-rocms, &c. There are likewise very good coach
fcoufe and stables finifhed e<jual (or nearly so) with any :n
the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and j
in depth 011 the weft fide 0? said alley 5* fest. There are j
good cellars under tftc whole of the buildirtgs, and a wine
room over part of theflable, with a hay-loft over the re
-ninder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD BONSALL & Co.
At their Office No. 6* Dock-street, between Walnut & Pear |
tt&f 1
6th month 1796.
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
Versus NED CATON, A NEGRO MAN.
WHO was committed to the jail of Dauphin county ,on
his coufeffion of having robbed the waggon of a 3
certain John Grace, Coppersmith and Tinman, belonging
to Philadelphia, of Tin, Copper and Pewfter ware, Spoons,
Knives and Forks, some of which wis found e» the said .
Nezro : alfOf was found on him, a Morocco Leather Pocket
Book, in which ts wrote tjie rtime WILLIAM WESTON ;
it contains ftlrldry papers, which corroborate the furp.ciom of
»l(- '.o«k having been stolen ; amongst which are Six Lotte
ry Tickets, one in the Canal Luttery in Charleston, one in
Harvard College, one in the Federal City, two in the Penn
sylvania Canal, inCure*:. and one in Patterfon Lottery, New-
Terfev, all in the poffcflion.of
J . ALEX. BERRY HILL.
Harrilburgh, August Jjtll, 17<j6. e°3
" Mr. FRANCIS,
(Of the 'New Theatre) '•
TAKES this opportunity of returning thirkt to his I
scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
on hij return from Maryland, to open a public aca I
dewy fdr dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He I
flatters himfelf that his attention to hit pupils hi
therto renders any premises of conducing his future
fcheraes on the most libera! and ftriileft terms, of pro- j
priety, totally unneeefTary„
jV. B. Private tuition at usual.
June 3 "'aw j
RAYNER TAYLOR,
Music PxeFEssox,
~No. Nokth-Sixth Street.
T> EXPECTFULLY informs his Scholars, that he has j
]V re-commenced his attendance after the summer va- ]
cation; and, as usual, teaches Ladies Singing and the
Piano Forte. Sept. 3. *38 j
Lands of the United States
Tresfnry Dtpartrmnt, Aug-ajl 3, 1796. 1
Public Notice is hereby Given,
XN purfcance of an aS of Congress, passed On the 18th I
day of May,1796, entitled " Ah aft providing " for
the faie of the lands of the United States, in the rerrito- I
ry north weft of the river Ohio, and above the motith of 1
Ker.tiltky river," that the fcftion3 or lots of land defcri- I
feed in the ausesed fc'nedule, lying in the seven ranges of j
townships, which Were surveyed in ptsrfuance of an ordi- 1
nance of Congrefa, pafTcd on the twentieth day of May, I
in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, I
will be eipofedfor file at Public vendue, in the town o! j
Fittflmrgh in Pennsylvania, oh the twenty-fourth day of I
OAober Heit, and thenceforward, from day to day until I
the firft day of December ensuing, unless the said lots {hall I
be sooner fold, in the manner, and on th» terms and con. j
ditjons herein after rtientioned, to wit:
ill. The said fcitions or lots shall be fold under the di- I
region ef the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter- J
-ltory, and such person as the Prefldefct of the United!
States my fpecialk appoint for that purpose.
•id. The said fe<siions or lots shall be fold to the highest J
bidder,but no faie can be made for less thin tvro dolllto J
fer acre of th« cjifcntity of land contained in such lot or J
•eilicm. I
The highcil bidder as before mentioned, mult depo- I
5t at the time of faie, one twentieth part of the purcnafe j
~ tnor.r-. tn si.- hands of fnch person as the Prcfide-it of the I
United States fta!l appoint to attend the fait 3 for that pur- |
pose, which will be forfeited, if a moiety of the film bid,]
ipcln'dxng the faijl twentieth part, lhall cot be paid u-itr.in j
thirtyoays from the time of faie.
4th. Upon p-.yment ofa moiety of the purchase money |
in the manner before mentioned, the pttrchafer wi l be 1
entitled to one year s crcdit for the remaining moiety ; I
an* C»all receive from the Governor «r Secretary of the J
Weftem Territory, and the person who fcall be appointed I
i.j rue Prefidenttrf the United States, to direct the Tales, a j
c describing tho Lot or f.vlion purchased, and de
clarinj thefum raider.iccour.t, the bafaccc remaining due,
iK- lime when <-ch becomes payable, and that
Ait who'e land therrin rn.-nt>»ned /will ke forfeited, if the
s
Lands of the United States.
Treasury Department, | £
Augxfl 8, I |
| Public Notice is hereby given, J ei
r ( -in of ronzrefs palled on the iSth » 9
thefale of the Lands 9 of the United States, in the territory
nort'h-weftof v^ e »rTowsflJpTof land
jaSS LV lying in the ft- »» £ —
STAtsS
, gHss3#&S£Sife S#£,
i until the tenth day of February enfuiog, unless the said
, 1 rt , r town (Hips toallbefo.nsr fold, in the manner am.
I rerrr. as.d conditions hereinafter Mentioned : viz
I ° lvk The said <Juarter town (hips {hall be fold to the j
Z I hiehe'd bidder, but no sale can be made for less than twe j
dollars per acre of th« quantity of land coStained in such j
I qti j r d tcr Xhe biddtfras before mentioned, mull de-1
oof,t a- the time of sale, one twentieth part .ofthepur
- chaf- mor.cy, in the hands of the Treasurer of the United
- States which will be forfeited if a moiety of thefu ™ b '£;
inclading the faH twentieth part, shall not be paid j
I thirty day» from the time of sale; I
I td. Upon payment of a moiety of the purehafe-me- I
} ney in the manner beforemcntioned, the purchaler will 1
I be entitled to one y ar's credit for the remaining mo.ety ; I
I and (hall receive a certificate describing the quarter town-
I (hip pur chafed, and declaring the sum paid on account,
J the balance remair-ing doe, the time when such balance
J becomes payable, and that tlte whole Land therein raen-
I tioned will be forfeited, if the said beiance is not then
j paid ; but if the said balance (hall be duly discharged, by
J payin"- the'fime to the Treasurer of the United State?, j
j th«*pur chafer or his sflignee or other legal representative,
1 shall be entitled to a patent for the said land, on his pro
-1 ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
I endorfedupon the cAtificate. But if any porchafer shall
I make payment of the whole of thepurchafe-moneyatthe
I time when the payment of the firft moiety is diredted to
i be made, he will be entitled to a deduction of ten per
I centum on the part for which acredit is authorized to be
I .riven ; and his patent Jhall be immediately issued.
J GIVEN under my hand at Philadelphia, the day
I and year at 0 vtmentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of <he Trtajufy.
SCHEDULE
1 Of Quartor-Townfhips to be fold at Philadelphia, "^tar*
fuance of the 6th feSion of en a& of Congress pasTed on
I the xßtli day of May, 179^-
j \ J .9- 7
- <&
& ° l ' *• i
I • Cm •- U $
% i $
!«> > o
04 - S H S . t 1
hHS £ S
„• *0 " < § =
O 1- c • —
z 4 ■ 1 ** 3
O © v " r "
H
2 Sotth East 5130
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
3 5 South East ST2Q
Nonh East 5120
l South Weft 5120^
1 North Well 5120
» 3®,480
> 7 South East 5120
1 North East 5120
1 [South Weft 5J20
l North Weft jl2o
h h - 20*80
b 9 South East 512 a
>. North Ealt 5120
h South Weft 5120
iNorthWeft 5120
h | — 20,480
k 11 South East 5120
h North East 5120
h jSoath Well 5r 20
'North Weft 5120
20,480
4 4 £•«* East 5,20 1 so]
North East 5120 t!v
South Weft 5120 ra
North Weft 5 120 th
, ——- '20,480 L«
§ |South East 5120 j j
•jj jNorth East 5120 I
jSouthWeft 5120
:h • JNorth Weft 5 120 ,
— 20,480 t ,
8 |Sou»h East 5120 a
c!l jNorth East 5120 j t(
c j, jSouthWeft 5120 i
ip. North Weft 5120 I
ch 20,480
ich io South East 5120
fh North East 5120
"P* Sooth Weft 5120
lc , (Morth Weft 5120
let «.430
,ip. 12 South East 5120
ach {North East 5 120
ach jSoutb Weft 5120 :
ach " North Weft 5120
"?• [20,480
c 3 South East 4602 I
12 North East 4654' '
liip. South Weft 5120
ach jNorth Weft 5 120
ach I _ 19,496
a ph - ISouth-Eaft 5120
*"P' iNorth East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft. 5120
hip. 1 [20,480
:ach -j South East 5120
Each North East; 5 120
tach South Weftj 5120
iNorth Weft 5120
(hip, he- | : 20,480
sd by the 6 9 iSouth East 5 120
-The ag- North East : 5120
'rational South Weft| 5 120
jNorth Weftj 5120
j I I =0.480
*
—7 '■ 1 '£ • -J
u - a.
rn <55 • — .
a. " =£ i •
&i 8 *
I "= I • ;
6 CS ® to w.
I— f W
*8 1 w 5 rt
Q v <C — w
0 H "E = =
7 rc I *-
& | |J
-
5 11 South Ealt 5 120
North East J 120
South Weft j 120
North Weft, j 120
13 South East 5 120
Noith Eift 5120,
■South Weft 5-M0; "" *
North Weft 5120'. I
20,4.80
6 4 South Halt 4630;
North East 4620 (
; South Weft 5.1 20
North Weft 5120
: | —19,490
6 South East 4730
- j North Eafl47is;
LSouth Weft 5120;
' North Weft 5120';
f I 9> 68 5
c| 8 Sduth East 5j 20
North East' 5 120 ' \#
n j South Weft' 5 120
I -North Weft j 120
H •— -20,480
>• xo jSouth Eaft 5120
'< j 'North East 5 120
" South Weft 5120
'l\ North Weft.sizo
;r 1 j — 2^,480
>e j 12 South East 5120
North East J 120
iy j South Weftjy L2C „ • v-, z'... _ If
j North Weft ,5 120
! 20,480
14 South East 5120
I North East j 120
x . I South Weft 5120
on . North 5120
20,480
=r 3 South East 5 120
I Noith East 5120 jr |
South Weft \ S IM J
j North Weft 5 120
I 20,480
j 5 South East 5120
j North East 5120 j
1 South Weft 5) 20
North Weft 512 c \
j I 20,480 \
7 South East 5 12' I
North East 5 120
] South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120'
! 20,480
9 South East 5120
j North East y 120
South Wed 5 i 20
North Weft
20,480
IX South Eaftj# 120
I North East 5120
I South Weft j 120'
North Weft j 120
20,480
13 Soath East 5 120
North East j 120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
j 20yfS0
Ij South East Jl2O
North East 5120
South Weft j 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
NOTE.
THE quantities of Lands in the several townfliips be
fore mentioned, are exchiSve of the Sedlions reserved by
the United States. The aggregate quantities in the seve
ral townships, have been afcertair.ed by aiftuai survey ; but
the quantities in the quarter tewnfliips, have been no
otherwise ascertained than by calculation.
Washington Canal Lottery,.
NO. I.
WHEREAS U>e State of Maryland has authored
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thoufacd,
, two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutt.ng
a Canal through the City of Walhington, froxi th Poj
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz •-*! Prize of 20,000 dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
6 ditto 1,000 6,c00
10 ditto 400 4,000,
30 ditto 100 * " a,coo
j5 ditto 50 ",75°
5750 ditto 12. 69,003
To'be raised for the Canal, 26,250
5850 Prizes, _ I7Si°°o
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.)
' 175C0 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
0- The Conimiffioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaiu aft for the pun-Sual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, withcut
delay, as soon Tickets are fold, of which timelf
' notice will be given.
Such priies as are not demanded in Ci months after th«
drawing is finifhed, (ball be confidercd as relinquilhed for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/V>.
0 LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. m.duncanSon,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
0 City «f Wathington, F;b. 11. . §
1 ■.■ ■■rrron—ctj ■m'wn
PRINTED B Y JOHN FENKO,
—No. ; 11 g—
CUES NUT-STREET.
0 (Price Eight Dollars pet Aauv.m.].
• .J