«*v »7-y
r
#S?ettt»f& & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
NVVBEX TUES DAT EVENING, SEPTEMBER 20, 1796. {V plums X.
-—— ————————————— . » 1 1 rr 1
TFor Sale, Freight or Charter,
yrrtjg The Ship General Washington,
Now discharging her cargo from Liver
pool at Rofs's Wharfr—She is a tact fail
-IVig ftiip, and may be Tent to sea at a small
-xpence, having been decked and refitted in Liverpool. 1
Apply lo
Kearny Wharton. j
Wholifei PHI or. h fajd (h»p, I J
A few thousand Bushels Salt and Coal.
Sept. >9.
pJT - * For Charter,
The Dani,h Barque Benevhntura j
Samuel Stub, matter,
good vefTel, of about two hundred jy
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WALN.
Sept. 17. <k f
For Boston,
The Schooner Olive,
Perez Drinkwater, rriafter, will pefi
trvely iail on Tuesday the 20th inft
having part of her cargo engaged. For freight or passage
apply to J- JENKS,
S-.pt. 16. No. 70, North water-Hrcet.
FOR LONDON,
The capital ship CERES,
fail soon:—For freight or passage
apply to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
John Vaughan,
September 10. Ffont-flreet.
for "s ah.rr,--- ,
«isCa>**- The Schooner L AfR. K,
One Hundred and twenty tons burthen. '
A new vefTel well found, well built, &
fails extremely fact. For terms apply
to the mailer on board, or to
Jofepb Anthony & Co.
If the above vessel is not fold in a few dayi, she will
take freight on very low terns for Boston.
Sept. 10. d
FOR SALE, r
, fteL The ship STAR, '
John Vanweman, Matter,
ia T "TINO. at Walnut-ftraet wharf, Philadel
-1 1 phia built, of live oak and cedar, will
tarry -bout 3100 barrels, is two years old, and in com
ulca order to reccive a cargo—For terras apply to
V THOS.& JOHN ZETLAND.
Who have also for sale said veflels cargo—consisting of—
Wine and Porter bottles,
Window G, ass, 6byßto 16 by 11.
Pipes in boxes
Earthen-Ware in crates.
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, &c. I
Aug. 19 §_ j
-AL qiith-Jflxeet wharf,
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft. August,
by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and flosp Sally,
from Port-au-Prince,
300 Mhds. COFFEE, '
70 Hhds. SUGAR.
Also, the cargo of the Swedijh brig Guflaf Adolphe t
ctlpt. Ramfre, from Gibraltar,
rfl and 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
Hazle Nuts in sacks 1
St. Übes SALT, for sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
For Charter,
* — The said brig
Gustaf Adolphe,
rf A Sswede, with a Mediterranean pass,
a very fitie veffelj about 200 tons bur
then. Aug. >B.' ffzweoaw ,
For Sale or Charter,
THE FAST-SAILING SHIP
rfMk* LIGHT-HORSE,
LYING at Mess. J. & R. Wain's wharf,
and seventy tons burthen, a stout, strong
. vessel, and well feund. For term apply to
-Joseph AAthony & Co,
Sept. I. _ dtf
_ nankeens,
Of the firjl quality, FOR SALE >7",
J RD. and JAS. POTTER.
For any quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, a li
beral Credit will be given. R. & J; P -
September 13. * ■
INDIA SALES.
ON Thursday the il& inft. at,lo o'clock, A. M. will
be fold at the ftorcs of Willings and Franeis, a large
quantity .of INDIA GOODS, imported in the Ganges,
from Bengal, consisting of
3000 picces Gurrahs '
1000 do. Baftas, different kinds
3500 do. CoffaSj do.
450 do- Humh'ums, do.
600 do. Patna hdkfs. for women
100 ho. Addaties
80 do Table cloths , '
300 do. Emcrties
80 do. Punjums
300 do. Fine Mulmuls
200 do. Fine Dacca hdkfs.
ISO do. worked Muslins
joo do. Dorea.l
100 do. Book Muslin
icc do. black and colored Persians or TaiTetiee
1200 do. Eandannoes, chocolate, red and blue
l»o do. Ch<>ppa Romals
40 quarter calks of Hyson Tea of goad qeality,
40 Souchong
.The coarse goods will be fold by the bale, the taffetas
anu bandannoes in lots to suit the purchaferc, the teas by
the chest. The whole is entitled to the drawback,and will
be fold £§r approved notes, on a liberal credit.
The goods may be fcen from the 15th inft. to the day
previous to the sale.
JOHN CONNELLY, A&ionecf-.
September 8.
To be disposed of,
THE time sf a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
has be:ween : four and five years to serve: She
Can lie recommended f<>r her sobriety and honesty. For
• puticulars enquire »t No. Chelnut-flrect.
August 3. w&ltf
French Goods.
Received by th& SaJ/vy Mitchell\ ffom Hdvre-de•
Grace, A
to Trunks ■» L , SHOES of a ii co i ors forts and sizes
1 Cafe S . . ]
I Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS t^e
\ Ditto Fine LAWN f, ol
I Ditto best fine CAMBP-IC
t Ditto La 'il..' best (hammy and Grenoble Gloves
For Sal -by THCfMA-S& JOHtf KETIAND.
Aug. 14
~ Wm. HOLDERNhjSSE, J
No. 76 High Street, .
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and | £
the Eall Indies, a well ftlcfted assortment of Silk I M|
Merctry, Linen Drapery and Haberdaftiery Goods; which , Ro ,
he willfell, Wholesale and Retail, en the low eft terms ;• j j
AMONGST WHJCH ARE,
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and frlver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some sxtra black taffeties,luteftringsand colored Persians i
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and short Nankeens f~
English Mantuas of the firft quality
: Damaik table linen and napkins, very fine
» Silk Hosiery, an elegant aifortment __
Thead and cotton do •
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cleth
French cambrics, very fine
Iridi Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
r Of the best quality and on reasonable terms,
FOR SALE 3Y
Philip NickHn £5° Co.
" f fef", ■, - dtf
"The Cargo tjf the PolacreTndepetid^nt,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lil
bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
' 28 Pipes of Brandy .
f 18 Bales of Spanish wool »
3 do. of Annifeed
7000 Bushels of best Lilbon Salt
[1 80 Boxes of Lemons T
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS, ,
received by the ship Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart, -i
from Kingston.
Sept. 13. d /.
\ CAB L- E S,
From 16 to 9 J inches, for sale by
Jeremiah Warder,
July 11 § No 12 north Third-flreet.
Washington Lottery.
THE Twentieth and I'wenty-firft Days' Drawing of
the Wafhifigton Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office
No. 134, Market-street, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickcts in all the other
lotteries may be procured. *
September ij, 1796. df
[; """ FOR SALE, ~
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
in pipes and hogsheads -
Claret, genuine oM, in cases
Gin; in pipes, from Holland
\ Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, in hogsheads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9 5
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, German and Rwffia, in barrels b
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvaa, 0
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by ii
-THOMAS.& JOHN KETLAND. c
1 luly 19 1 . $ F
THE PUBLIC
s * IS hereby cautioned not to trust any person or -
r " persons on my account, under any pretext whatever., nsl
__« fliall not pay such debts as may have been, or hereafter
may be contracted without my knowledge.
THOMAS HOGGARD.
Sept. 13. tt&f3
INFQRMAIION
TS given daily of the drawing of the WASHINGTON c
ig 1 LOTTERY, atfthe Office a
No. 147 Chef nut Jlreet, f
between Fourth and Filth streets. Also, where Tickets a
may yet be had. Sept. 15. ttf
-r >£r The aoth and 21ft Days drawing is arrived c
!
Lottery and Broker's Office, 1
No. 64, Smith Second street.
li- r 1 PICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a
X Check Book for examination—-.and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
_ Check Books kept for examination and r "giftering, for
the City of Wafliington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
g e tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late Nevv
=B» Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber foEcits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or t« obtain money on deposit of property-
Wm. B/ackbtirn.
Philadelphia, Augujl iB, 1796. mth
FOR SALE,
A Complete Font of Brevier,
ENtirely new, and yet urlopened. The weight of this <
1 font is about 312 lb. It is from the Foundery of 1
Wilson & Sons, Glasgow, and will be fold at cost & charges. '
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
Enquire at the Officc of the Gazette of the Unitde
Statse, 119 Chefnut-ftreet. Aug 19 §4W
Dissolution of Partnership.
THE PartnerlhiD between ROBERT ANDREWS and
DAVID MEREDITH,under the firm of ANDREWS
3y and MEREDITH, bring diflolved All persons who are
ill indebted to, or who have claims against: the laid house, are
rcqucfted to apply for settlement to the subscriber.
ay ROKERT ANDREWS,
■r. No. 86, So. Wharves.
5ept.6,1796. d if
WANTED,
A Middle-Aged WOMAN, «who can be well recom
mended, te t3ke charge of the entire management of
he children—>such a person wVll meet with suitable encou
or ragemerit, and may hear of a placc, by applying to the
printer of this Gazette.
Sept. 14. mwf
.
For Sale, OI
(la aft elcellent (ituation for bufineft,) publi
A three-story hrick House and Lot of to m
Ground, "
Eighteenfeet front and twenty-five feet in depth, on
the South fide of Market near Frortt-ltreet, aow in poffel
fion of Samuel Re»J.,
Apply t«
Israel Pleafants, or E
Charles & Joferph Pleafants. „ iww,
,6ept. 13. dtf
For Sale,
A Three Cory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chef-nut
} f\_ street, between Front and Sicosd (tracts, in which
' ■ Messrs. James Calbniith & Co. have for many years (and I
1 ' now do) carried on business.
I PolTeflion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILtIAM BEI.L, or
r HECTOR CALBRAITH. Se
April 11. §
5 1 A Book-Keeper,
OR Clark's place is wasted by a person properly quali
fied, and whose ch-irafler will be found unexception
able. Apply to the Printer 1 . a
Aug. II n
Dutch Goods,
Received by the Pennsylvania, frovi AmJlerJam.
GIN, in pipes
Morlaix
, Ticklenburgs > In Bales
Ofnaburgs J A
Girjnan 7 Stripes, in cases
Haerlem j .
I Hollands ") BUCK, in ditto
Ravens }
, X3.:dtictrs,-iri dittu .
r- Brittagne. > itl (litto A J
Platilles 3
For Sale by THOMAS JOHN KETLAND.
«g' . S * 7
Sales of India Goods. By
Tht Cargo ef thefliip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
. CONSISTING OF §
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
t, l\ COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Muslins, x
Doreas, Mfc. Alio, I
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, 3
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by 4
Willings y Francis,
~ No. 11 Pecn Street. ■ J
June 8 §
cc JUST ARRIV ED, from Li/bon, 8'
And for Sale Subscribers, Ste]
Lisbon Wine,
In pipes and quarter-calks; p cr
cooo-Bufhels Lisbon Salt
JeJfe & Robert Wain. £
Sept. 10.
At a fpscial meeting of the Board of Di- i
reßows for ejlablijhing ufefu! Manufactures, holden _ !
at Paterfon, July 8, 1 °(
RESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock- for
holdirs of the Society be called on the firft Monday, del
lieing the third ay of O .Sober nutt, at Paterfon, by ten in
j&, of the clock of the fame day ; then and there to take
into consideration the propriety of dissolving the said
corporation,' agreeably to the law in such cafe made and —
provided—and the Stockholder* are earnestly requested
— to attend the said meeting in person or by proxy.
August 17 dt3othO
or — — ■i * A
[\\ DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Fil
; Notice is hereby Given, pi
— AT agreeably to an aft of Congress of the United j Cc
1 States of America, parted at Philadelphia, the aßth day j Di
of May, 17g6 ; layin ; duiifs on Carriages, for trie convey- M
ance of persons, and r- pealing the former acts for that pur- a
pole.—That there fha.l be levied* coined and paid, upon a
ets a ll carriages for the conveyance of peHons. which (hall be
kept by or fpr any person, for his or hsr own use, or to let
out to hire v orfor the conveying of paflengers, the several du
— ties and r?tes following, to wit.
• For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Poll Chariot, dols*
upon every Post Chaise, 1 2 dojs.
j n upon every Phaeton, with or without top, g dols T"
upon every Coachee, § dols.
or upon other Carriages, having panne x work above, w
with blinds, glaffesor 9 dols. en
upon four wheel carriages, having framed posts and
topi with steel springs, 6 dols.
wn upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iroc
" ,v " springs orjaciis, 3 dols. c
* or upon curricles witn tops, 3 doll* } 3
upon chaises with tops, 3 dols. V
>lic upon chairs with tops, 3 dols.
ck, upon lulkies with tops, 3 dols.
ids, upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols. or
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or iron springs,
3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carriages. 2 dolt. a
1 upon tveryfour wheel carriage, having framed posts
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, a dols. j
The ColV&ors of the Revenue of tbe firft lurvey of the
I Dtftriftof Pennfy'.vanta, will attend daily, until the 30th day
this of September next, for the purpose of rece vmg the duties on
0 f Carriages, at No. n7»inßa'ce or street, in iheCity
yes. of Philcdelphia, at thp bo.uit of Daniel S, Ckir, in the
3 ' County of Montgomery ; and at the houfc ot Du
„de bois, Esq. in the County.of Bucks; of which all persons pof-
ieiled ot such Carriages are desired to take notiee.
—. Notice is also given, f,
TO all retail dealer, in Wines, and foreign distilled fpirw p
and tuous liquors, thai licences will be granted to >hem jor.e li cj
VVS cencc for carrying on the bulinefs of retailing of Wmes, in a
are lets quantity, or 111 lels quantities than 30 gdlons—and one _
are licence for carrying 00 the bufinels of retailing Spirituous li
qu ws in leu quantities than 50 gallons, at the fame time and
at the lame places, by the officers legally authoriaed to grant
fucU licences.
lf WILLIAM NICHOLS, p
— , Infpeftor of the Revenue i>t the firft survey (■
of the dillriQof PenDfjlvania. c
Office of Infpe£lion,at { , 3°
om ". Philadelphia, sifl July, 1796. 5 f
t of ■
C °h e W A .V r E D,
Jn APPRENTICE to the Prirting Bufmeft. 1
vi ■ Enquire at this Officc. . 9
.• . •
The Merchants and Traders
OF this City, who have claims upon the French Re
public, either ift the Weft-Indies or Europe, are fequefted
" to meet at the Coffee-Houfe, on Turfday the soth inft.
zt n o'clock. Sept. 19,
: FOR SALE,
PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND GIN, of the firlt qualities in Pipe'.
FRAuNCES and VAN REED,
Brokers an ! CoremiiKon Merchants, No. 63, So. 3d St.
• i iv.ci NQ.TES of feund.
N. B. An APPR&ymTS VTaftal.
September 14, ' rr.wf
t Rofs and Simfoil
1 Tl.vc for Sale,
i A few calks Bees-Wax,
Of an excellent quality,
And a parcel of Lampblack*
Sept. 14. d
Great is Truth and mu/t prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
■ And for sale at No- 41 Chefnut-Jlreet by J. ORMRODy
An Apology for the Bible,
By R. WatsoAt* z>. d. f. x. s.
Bishop of Lamlaff, &c.
Being a Complete refutation of Paine's
Age of Reason,
Aid the only anf«er to the Second Part.
August 30. dtf
THIS DAT IS PUBUrPFI),
By W. Young, Mills and Son,
[Price to cts. in boards, <2 i-l neatly bound]
All Apology for th._ Bible,
In a series of Letter],
Addrefled to Thomas Paine, author of a book entitled
' The Age of Rrafon, part the feani, being an itt
•v-/ligation of true and fabulous theology.
By R. WATSON, D. D F. R S. Lord SUhop of
'* Landaff, and Regius Profeffir of Divinity
in the University of Cambridge.
Sept. 15. tu&f6
as
For sale by the fublcribers,
IN fiNH-STKttT,
r > 130 quarter Chests frelh Hyson Tea;
100 ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing small tea I'etts of 4*
picces;
400 pieces Bandanoes.
Willing! & Francis.
. January 30 tt&l
One Hundred Dollars Reward.
SOME villainous person or persons having, in the night
of the 7thinft. broken and much injured the MarMe
Steps at Mr. Pierce Butler's door in High-ftreef, No.
315, the above fijm of 160 dollars will be paid immedi
ately to any one who will discover the perpetrator or
perpetrators, so that he or they'may. he apjrehended.
Apply to . PIER' F. BUTLER,
Or SAM. MAGAW. .
Sept. 1!• "tf&m3 j, i _ '
- TSSE NOTICE.
fubferiber intends to make application for a re
'en 1. newa of the following certificate, luppofed to be
loft on the passage to England in April 1794 =
Certificate .'o. 10335, dated 15th November, 1793,
:k- for 1830 dollars and 91 cents—Six per cent, domestic
ay, debt, on the books of the Treafuryof the United States,
ten in the name of the Hon. John Trevor,
ike ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's,
aid Philadelphia, August 30th, 1796. *tu&f6w
ind —
ked India Tamboured Muslins.
L_ A small, bandfome assortment of Mnflins,
•viz.
Fine tamboured Malqa and Santipofe Mufiins, variou»
patterns and prices*.
Plain 6-4 Jaconet.
ted Corded apd cross-barred Muslin Shawls.
lay Ditto ditto 6-4 and 4-4 Dorcas-.
ey- Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarse.
«r- Japan Muslins, and
A few pieces extraordinary fine Long Cloths,
be roil s.me B.Y
iT. Thomas Tinges,
Ko. Illy South Thirj-ftreefc
Sept-la-. , tu&Ttf
TO BE SOLD, . v
That Neat and Convenient House,
WHEREIN th; fubferiber now lives. There are tour
rooms on a floorthe house is two stories high
>ve ' with a good garr«t above : under the whole is an excelU
etit cellar, with a dry well, in which is a convenient
framed chamber for p refer ving meat, butter, &c. in warm
roo weather. Attached to the house is a Stable for three
horses, hay-los , granary, and carriage-house, a wood
yard paved with ftorfe, and a garden with foil of a fine
quality. An indisputable title will be made to the pur- *
chafer. For farther particulars apply to the fubferiber in
Princeton, or. in her absence to Thomas D- Johnson, Efq»
or the rev. Samnel S. Smith,
ngs, ANN WITHERSPOON.
Princeton, Aug 24. 2awtO
><fs Plans of the city ot Philadelphia,
Including the North*"* Liberties and diftridt of
d-v SoOTHWARK,
, Q „ Publifbed, and Cold by
city BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High street,
ao "' (Price one dollar.)
TttlS plan is 46 inehe iquare, and has been en'J
graved by one of ths firft artifti in the city, from a
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
?' r \- phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
h city, its population, trade, government, See.
l X Jufr .9 tn&ftf ,
»'»- "FOR t>AL ',
rrant • By N. and J. FRAZIER,
No. 9J, S. Front-street,
Prime Boston Beef, in barrels.
irvey GeoVgia Cotton
Carolina Rice and Indigo.
Sherry and Teneriffe Wines, of excellent quality.
Ravens Duck.
Indio Bandanno's.
Sewing Silks, various colour!.
r t. Coflahsand Gurrahi.
Sspt. 17. tt«4vr.
1List $f Pxiztt and Si.tutt in the Wajhin%tm
-Lottery No. 2.
loth D«y'« Driwing, Sept. 19.
•Wo. B.h. Hi. Deli. No. Dth. Nt. Dah.
4 «365* M9t® 3 6 9 8 '
8x $0 '66* »• *S>»4 37<9<>
308 80S ««7 320
346 96® 1 162 38"8
390 14188 164 H 6®B t»
Iqo «5599 «6on 980
"373 10 i6»ib 1® 06S 39«93
Sj2 10 4 1 ? ' 00
*266 456 345 »• 816
338 10 935 j6t 4°7'9
3466 to 17197 «• Bj2 B°9
911 10 4'l 17845 4'798
4,41 To 604 10 »8026 i?s°3
876 617 «• 158 9°S
300 68« 821 i® 43879
5»19 IO 18168 lO gyl 44090
971 I*l t® t 9 i 4 3 389
®002 364 lgß 1094 10
*36 6 55 34* 10 B ®9 '•
614 851 to 834 10 453°7 10
851 jc»66 333- l °
'•38 814 10 34 6 33®
498 946 10 161 533 J#
19 »oo»7 , 826 564
i«4 10 a»o 3<5'7
797 797 10 . 616 10 46040
906 l® 904 10 967 '4°
5*63 *'35® 10 3 201 5 57®
3i5 5»4 >° 5" S° 4r j° 6 10
669 37» 674 g ßi
,0 >33 7ij 33" 8 4 8l SS
778 976 to 285 497
813 10 M 157 <0 34001 it) 87a
5>9 431 i® 061 898 10
>*3»3 444 10 354" 978
91S 10 721 623 10 49385
974 833 36510 10
T3288 *3202 Jffi
31ft Day's Drawing—Monday, Sept. ta.
Nt>. Suit. AV Pel,. No. Dots. N», Dsh.
356 12134 24862 3 5 ®99
493 10 13027 10 813 10
581 to 037 26053 33377
.942 231 10 396 695 to
J>BB 14060 537 5433 1 10
359 13 24! 848 10 687
»eoi 55® *7646 35308 »5
743 669 28274 to 466
865 *5=43 316 36123
883 16421 509 3759 1 '*
3840 532 559 39®74
914 696 10 *9288 40435 so
jo j 3 983 74' 651
448 »7oit 743 10 696-
B*9 383 975 8«y
* 913 10 JOOO6 '4*447
893 9*3 J0 336 l® 93° ' 1
* 7084 18350 lo 6:9 43950 20
«859 4 C 7 6 95 44''7
9977 >® 9" 989 i® 4«® »°
20244 10 J9794 ~3 1 A t 9 872 10
11003 20231 650 t® '45305 *3
3x6 1# 21299 10 720 4'7062 10
59 r *«5 2 ' 753 4 8 ' 21 ! °
12191 24788 1® 848 49891 10
Error, in the lift publiftied of the 1 ith Diyi Drawing,
. of 42888 Ihould be 42838 blank. Should beadded
to the fame lift 36005 blank, and 36088 blank.
To the lift ot the 13th Days Drawing there fho*ld be
added *5453 blank.
t In the lift of the 19th Day, irtftead of 34548 it fhoilld.
35548 10 dollarj,
ytrsr published,
\ Worn the Pwfs of MOREAU DE ST. MERY,
And to be had at the principal Bookfellert in the city,
* (Price five five-penny bit 6)
A Humourous Pamphlet, entitled
The Political MafTacre;
Or, Vnexpelled Obfer nations on the Writings of cur
present fcribblerjj
By JAMES QUICKSILVER., Author of the Bine Ship.
Embeflilhed -with a curious Caricature.
Sfcpt. 19. dtf
LANDING,
Trora on board the Brig REBECCA, Dominic Divine,
Master, at Philip Care's Wharf, and for Sale by the
Sublcriber,
London Particular Madeira WINE,
In Pipes,'Hoglhiads and Quarter Calls.
There are in the above parcel 10 fihds. if CHOICE
OLD WINE, fit for immediate use.
Robert Andrews,
Sept. 6. fnw&f No. 86, So. Wharves.
Lottery
FOR raising fix thousand fix hundred and fixty-fivea
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prices, and not two blanks tc a prize, viz
I Prize of jooo dollar, is dollars 5000
I 1000 1000
i s°o ' 500
5 400 JOCO
»6 T Co aooo
99 4950
too tj 5000
4000 10 lO&tlO
5 Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000
■
#332 Prizes. 44,4J0
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars ?arh, 44,450
By order of the Director* of the Society for eftablilh
ing Weful Manufactures, the fuperintendanu of the Pit
erfdn Lottery have requested the Managers to o%r the
foregoing Seheme to the public, and have drreded them
to refund the money to those persons who have purchafcd
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
iii this Lottery.
The lottery has aitually commenced drawing, and will
cofitinue until fipifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be fcen at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second ftrcet, who will give information whcretick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of Jane, 1796.
J. N- GUMMING, ■)
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, Managers.
'JONATHAN RHEA, } "•
dtf co
To be Sold,
At N». 128) North Second-Street* and by several oj _
tbe Apothecaries In this City.
TRANSFERS of tb« right to remove paint and inflamma
tions from the human body, asfecurcd to Dr. {ELISHA
PfcRKINS, by patent, with inftrumcnts aud oi reft ion* ric
cjirary (or ihepra&ice. This mode of treatment i« parcicu
iarly in relieving pains iti the head, face, iceth, breast,.
fade, stomach, back, rheumatifma, rcceni gouts, &c. See.
Notwith£landing the utility of tHis pratlice, it is not pre
ijmed but thcTc arc cases irt which this aod every ocbet
r .metly may fail.
June 1, - itv
# CONTINUATION OF
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
BY LATE ARRIVALS.
SCHAFFAUSEN (Switz.) July 9.
" In confequesce of tUe iuccefics of the French,
and their promptitude in following up their advan
tage! over the allits, Condc's army was cut off frem
the Imperial army, and hid themselves in the Black
Forest near Sultz. Daterrained, however, to come
out, their retreat was marked with every kind of
excefi that could be perpetrated by a licentious sol
diery; they pillaged houses, and fired villages, and
violated the chastity «f wives and daughteit. Se
veral troops of the Empire, and'a party of the Su
abian militia, toufed with indignation on hearing
of these exceffcs, engaged the emigrant army and •
routed them. A vail number remained dead on
the field of battle, and the survivors were pursued
and dtfperfed in the foi eft.
" The French army in Suabia amounts to 70,00 to
men. The battles, which take place between the
Republicans and the Emigrants, are moll oblliuate
and bloody, and for the mod part terminate in the
utter deftru&ion of the one or the other party." ■
PARIS, July 9.
The Emigrants who have been obliged to quit
Switzerland, are dated at 8 or 10,000. There
have been no exceptions.
Moreau, General in Chief, to the Executive Di-
Teftory.
Head-quarters, Offenbourg, iith
Meflidor, (June 29,)
" Citizen DireSors,
" In my dispatch of yesterday 1 announeed to
you, that after the evacuations of the camp of Bif
fel, General Defaix proceeded rapidly with tha
troops destined to the attack of the camps towards
Appenhyic and Rataffen, forefeeingj that the rein
forcements which the enemy had received from the
lower Rhine, would bring on aferious engagement.
" General St. Susanne, who remained at Rataf
fen to keep them in check, was already engaged
with the enemy when these troops under Deftix ar
rived there. , /
" The enemy occupied the excellent poftiion in
front of the village of Renchen and of the river of
that name, rendered famous by Marshal Tu-enne's
passage of it.
" The battle began with <he utmost obftitiacy ;
the cannonade was terrible ; the enemy prote&ed
by a wood on their rear, manoeuvred with rapidity
in order to surprise one of our flanks j but the re
fervy, dtre&ed in a proper manner, rendered their
attempts useless, and drove them back every time
with loss.
The cuirafliers of Kawanack at length at
tempted to turn our right and charged with vigor j
but two battalions of the 97th demi-brigade, sup
ported by tbe carabineers and the light artillery,,
drove back the cuirafliers, and though fwrrpunded
on all fides they manaeuvered with fang froid, in or
der to direct their fire to all the points where they
were menaced. The enemy left the field of battle
covered with dead bodies aud harfes.
" Without being di(heartened by the check, the
•enemy directing a grand effott againft-our left, at
tempted to turn it, and attack it in front. At the
moment in which our infantry were ready to pene
trate into the wood, they attacked it with their
whole cavalry with great impetuosity. This move-,
ment had beenforefeen—General St. Suzanne im
mediately made Adjutant-General Levaffeur charge
the cavalry in flank, at the head of the Chasseurs,
and in front by the 6th dragoons and 15th cavalry.
Aftoniftred at this mqvement, the enemy were soon
put to a complete rout by the rapidity of the
charge.
" The infantry, cavalry, and artillery favinp
themselves in the greatest disorder, the 84th and
10th ciemi.brigades parfued them as quickly as the
horfe ; the grenadiers of the last brigade took two
pieces of cannon, and in one instant we were mas
ters of the river and the village of Renchen.
" As soon as the defiles were occupied we con
tinued the pursuit. General St. Suzanne's Aid-de
Camp came up with them at Valenbacli ; in a mo
ment they were defeated and put to the rout. The
troops did not stop till night, and uutil loaded with
borfesand prisoners they Could go no further.
" loss of the enemy was enormous. We
took ia killed and wounded 600 horses, and made
1,200 prifosers, 500 of whom arc waunded, 10
pieces of cannon, and almost all the light infantry.
The field of battle vrtls covered with dead bodies.
« Such complete success, Citizens Direflors,
renders it unnecessary to make an eulogium upon the
troops; they shewed a courage and a coolness of
which there are few examples.
" General Defaix end St. Sufanne, »nd Adju
tant-General Decamp and Levefleur, and the Chief
of Brigade, Fouconnot, manoeuvred with admira
ble precision and bravery.
" Citizens Vigneron and Young, Lieutenants in
the 7th drrgoons, particularly distinguished them
selves in the pursuit of the enemy. The former
took the commander of the rear guard, whom he
had wounded, and to whom he immediately admi
nistered the neceflary affittanee with an eagerness
whieh he did not (hew for his own wounds, which
he would not have drefled till after the affair.
" As soon as 1 shall have received a report upon
the other traits of bravery, 1 will give you aa ac
count.
" Health and refpedl,
" MOREAU."
MOREAU, Commander in Chief, to the Execu
tive Directory.
" Head-Quarter j, Oberkirch,
" 15th Meffidor (July 3.)
" Citizen Diredors,
"ON the 13th (July 1J we pttfhed a Teconnoi
tering party to the camp of Babrac. The enemy
occupied it as well as the position of Knubis, at
the back ef the black monntains. All the advanced
posts of the enemy were £riven into the camp.
" A company of grenadiers of the 100 th detni
bngade, charged by 150 Emigrants, who called
o»t |o them to iurtgidcr, and cry Five la R*i,
and they would do them n» harm, replied tpr a w<?.. j
dire&ed fire, which killed 20 of the Emigrants; 1
the rcit fled, The grenadiers would hare injured *
themfelve* by the pursuit if they had tiol been t
checked. . 8
• " Or. the 14th (July 2) Brigadier-Genera! La t
Riche proceeded with the 2lfl demi-brigade of v
light-infantry and a detachmeHt of the second re- j
giment of chaiTeurs to Openau and Kflubit. The
defile of Renchen which he had to penetrate, was
full of enemy's troops, and of armed peasants, c
whom, hovyever, he soon difp'erfed. He found the £
enemy in great force upon the mountain of Knubis, {
the highift of the Black Mountains ; he did not
hesitate to attack them, in spite of the obftav'les %
which the ground presented, without artillery; {'
the roads would not permit him to h *« any.
" After having driven them from the Mountain,
■where they had made the mod obilinate rsfiftance, ]
there remained to be carried a very strong redoubt,
which the enemy had built upon the lummit, with
a casement surrounded by a ditch.
The courage and impetuosity of the French, t
could alone overcome such an obstacle. General (
Larochc was the firft to jump iato the ditch ; and f
notwithstanding the terrible fire of those who de- c
fended the redoubt, and the grenade* which they a
threw into the ditch, he scaled the walls at the head t
of the brave chasseurs whom he commanded. ]
" The loss of the enemy was confidersble ; the
field of battle was covered with dead bodies. Four
hundred pt ifoneis were taken, two pieces of cannoa.
and two pair of colours.
" The prince of Wurtemburg, commanded in c
person, and, before the affair, he harrangued {lis t
troops, hoping, he said, they would defend the rc- {
doubt better than they had done Keltl. \
" I have conferred the rank of corporals on ci- c
izens Saboron and Dumont, wlio were the firft to ]
reap into the redoubt, and to take the colours. {
" General Laroche'6 conduct is abeve all prarfe. ,
" Health and refpeft, *
(Signed) " MOREAT7." f
The Commiflary of the Government with the Ar- {
of the Sambre and Mcufe, to the Executive '
Diie&ory. £
" Citizens Directors, <
" General Jotirdan did not wait, in order to re- '
turn to the right bank of the Rhine, and to join '
Kleber, for the retreat of the army, encamped be- '
twten Neuwied and BendorfF. He forGtd them
to baften in difotder by passing the Rhine in their '
fight, and in strong force. This expedition, whose 4
boldness astonished the enemy, was attended with 1
complete success. i
" While these intrepid Republicans, by the ac- '
tivity of their movements, and multiplied acts of '
the highest valor, forced the enemy's columns to '
precipitate flight, the bridge of Neuwied was re- f
established; and at the end of five hours, the di- *
vifwtn landed in the plain, formed, and parfued the '
Auftrians. The terior which this unexpected pas- <
fageoccafioned was fueh, that one of their Gene- 1
rals surprised at his head-quarters at BendorfF, could 1
only faye himfelf by leaving his baggage, papers, 1
&c. behind him. <
"It is certain, that if we could have had fufEci- <
T:nt means of passing aver the Rhine a fraall body '
of cavalry, tlie retreat of the enemy would have 1
been cut off. t
"We have already taken two hundred prisoners, <
two pieces of cannon, and a great number of wag- >
gons. I
" Health and refpeft, ]
{Signed) „ ««JOUBERT." *
LONDON, Jane 2J. <
Mr. Robert Smjth, the banker, newly called
to the Irifr peerage, by the title of Earl of Car
rington, returns only four Members to the Parlia
ment of Great-Britain.
Lady Susan Gordon's diamond necklace,'which
was danced up®n at the birth-day Ball, by* Lady
Mary Thynne, received no material injury; but
the delicate foot of Lady Mary, not being accuflom
ed to tread upon such dangerous pebbles, was so much
bruised, that (he was obliged to retire in confidcr
able anguish.
A Bath paper mentions, that the horses of the
carriage of Mrs. Moon, in which was her beautiful
daughter, ran away and ovevfet the chariot at the
Sign of the S«n, Miss Moon was taken ont, much
hurt at the Sun, from whence (he was conveyed to
her mother's lodgings, opposite the Seven Stars,
and is now in a fair w ay of recovery, in consequence
of the /lull and attcii'ion of Surgeon Rainbow !
The lady who advertises for a Jleeping Partner in
the lace "business, has had no application whatever
from his firene Highuefs the Stadtboldcr.
An advertisement appeared in one of the Newsi
papers of lad week* oflijrirjg accommodation from
the Advertiser, who resides in Weflminller, to any
person who wilhed tci be " done for."
ELECTION ANECDOTES.
Sir Richard Steele who represented the borough
of Stockbridge in the reign of Queen Ann, carried
his elsftion againlt s powerful opposition by the
merry expedient of (licking a large apple of gui
neas, and declaring that it fliould he the prize of
that man whose wife should firft be brought to bed
after that day nine months.
The non-resident freemen of Berwick upon
Tweed, living in London, being put onboard 2
vessels in the Thames, immediately previous to the
election of 1768, in order to be conveyed to Ber
wick by water, Mr. Taylor, one of the candidates
in opposition, covenanted with the naval command- I
•er of the election cargo for the sum of 4001. to land I
the freemen in Norway. This was accordingly ;
accomplifhcd, and Mr. Taylor and Lord De
laval took pnfieffion of their feat* without any fur- ;
ther expence. t j
The Burgesses of a distant corporation being 1
convinced of the necessity of oppofiog an aft of '
Parliament which put a greater power into the 1
hands of excifcmen, tfiey wrote a very polite request t
to their representative, desiring him to oppofe\he 1
measure with all his might ; in answer to which -
they received the follewing refpißM letter.
Gentlemen, <-
I received yours ; lam /urprized at your info 1
lencc, in troubling me about the ex. ife. You know i
what 1 very well know, that I bought you ; «nd 1
I know wh»t y«u don't think I know, th* you #re
felling yourselves to somebody die ; ind 1 know
what you don't know, that lam buying anothe.-
borough. May the curses of heaven light on you
all. May your houses be a3 open and it common
to all excise officers, a3 your wives and daughter*
were tome when I, flood for your icoundielly cor
poration.
July 15.
The Inquisition, it is said, is to be banirtied from
Spain. From the well known holpitality of this
country it is probable, that, with other Emigrants,
it may find fhclter here.
In the Leyden Gazette df the 28th ult, the
whole effefls of the Stzdholder are advertiftd to be
fold by auction upon the 18 th of July.
July 25.
ADMIRALTY OFFICE, July 22.
Extradl of a letter from Vice Admiral Mncbridc,
to Mr. Nepean, dated on board his M jelly's
ship RuS'el, in Yarmouth Roads, July it.
" Please to inform my I,ords Commiflioner<s of
the Admiralty of the arrival of his Majesty's Ihip
Glatton, after having had an aiilion with fix Frencli
frigates, a brig and cutter, off Helvoetfluys. Eft
clofed is a letter from Capt. Trollope, giving .an
account of that spirited affair. I nave ordered her
to the Nore to refit."
Extradl of a letter from Capt. Trollope, of his
Majesty's (hip Glatton, to Vice Admiral Mac
bride, commanding his Majesty's (hips and vcilels
to Yarmouth Roads, dated the 21 It mil.
" I beg leave to inform you, that in pursuance
of your orders, I failed in his Majesty's ihip Citat
ion, on the 15th of July, ftom Yarmouth Roads,
in order to join Capt. Savage and a fqundron isnder
his command ; and 0:1 ihe 16th at one, P. M. we
observed a squadron about four or five leagues off
Helvoet. Owing to light winds and calms it Was
seven P. M. before we were near enough to difco
ver'the squadron to coiifift of fix frigates, one o£
which, the commodore's ftiip, appeared to mount '
fifty guns; two otlrrfS "appeared about thirty-fix
guns, remarkably fine long frigates, and the other
three smaller, and might mount about twenty-eight
guns eacfy. There were also a very fine brig and
cutter with them. .We soon suspected, from their i
signals, and their not anfweringcur private signals,
that they were enemies, and immediately cleared
for a&ion, and bore down to them.
From their manceuvfing it was ten at night be
fore we got close along fide the third ftiip in the
enemy's line, which from her fizc, we suppose to be
the commodore j when after hailing her and find
ing them to b« a French squadron, I ordered him te»
strike his colours, which he returned with a broads
fide, and I believe was well repaid by one from the '
Glatton within twenty yards 5 after which the ac
tion became general with the enemy's squadron, tha
two headmost of which had tacked, and one of the
largest had placed herfejf -along fide, and another or»
our weather bow, and the fternmoft had placed
themfelres on. our lee quarter and stern ; in this
manner we were engaged on both fides for a few
minutes, with our yard arms neatly touching those
of the enemy on each fide ; but I am happy to ac
quaint you that in less thau twenty minutes the
weight of our fire hid beat them off SiraTl TTties ;
but when we attempted to follow them, we, niucl»
to our regret, fonnd it impossible. I have no
doubt, from the apparent confufion the enemy were
in, we fh&uld have gainer! a detifive vhSory, but un
fortunately, in attempting to wear we found every
part of our running rigging totally cut to pieces*
and the major part of our Handing rigging : every
flay, except the mizen, either cut or badly wot'ii
ded, and our mails and yards eonfiderably damaged.
In this situation, although every officer and man
exerted tfcerafelves to the utmoll the whole night,
it was seven in the morning before the (hip was in
tolerable order t* have renewed the aflion. Tfie j
enemy, who appeared in tfie morning ip a clofts 1
line, seemed to have suFFered very little i , t rig
ging, although lam Gertain they mud ha>«. much
damage in their hulls, at which the whole of one
fire wa« directed. As they did not chufeto come
near us again, although they mud plainly have fecit
our disabled state, but made the bed of their way
for Flushing, and we followed them as close as we
could till the 17th at nine A. M. when they were
within three leagues of that port, with the hope®
of meeting with fprne affi(lance to enable me to-de»
ftroy them ; hut it coming on to blow hard at W.
in the disabled (latethe foip .was in, we were forced
to haul off the shore ; but although we were ndc
able to take any of them, I trull you will think
the officers and men whom I have the honor to
command in the Glatton, to whom f have rta&>n to
give every merit for their Heady, gallant, and cool
behaviour in the attack, having done theii utipoft,
and also some gbod, in driving Co very superior a
Force into port to refit that might have done very
considerable damage to our trade had they got to' *
sea. 1 cannot conclude this without recommen
ding to your notice, in the flrongefl manner, lieute
nant Robert Williams (2d) my firfl lieutenant, who
gave me every afiiftance in his power on the upper
deck : and also lieutenant Scbomberg, second lieu*'
tenant, who commanded on the lower deck 1 and
also Captain Straogeways, of .the marines, who, I
am very sorry to acquaint you, has received a bad
wound from a mufquct ball in his thigh, which is
not extracted yet, who, after he had teceived it,
and had a tourniquet on, infilled on coming on
deck to his quarters again, where he remained, en
couraging his men, till he was faint with the loss of
blood, and 1 was under the necefiity of ordering
htm to be carried down again ; and all the warrant
and petty officers and ship's company behaved ai'
English sailors always do on such occasions. And I
am particularly happy in acquainting you, that I
have not loft one life in so warm an adtiou, and on
ly one wounded besides Captain Slrangeways, vis,
William Hall, the Corporal of Marine, who also
received a m-ufquet bail through his thigh bone;
the ball pafled out on the eppbfite fide. Ourfmall
loss can only be attributed to their firing totally at
our rigging to disable 11s, in which ttiey too well
succeeded ; and hig majesty's ftiip Glatton, being
unfit to keep the sea from the damage (lie has recei
ved in her masts, yards, and rigging, l'bave though;
nt, .of tlic good of his majesty's fervjee, to cope
lo .»»'uiouih roads to refit."CAPTURE OF COLOMBO. f?
Ttc following particulars are communicated by
oki''* r ft raß ' i ' n l bc East India Compa
ny's fcrviee, who dates his letters from Wolfendah,
Februar/ 13, 1796—
—\ . I
"On 'he 7thof February, Major Petrie march- Re
ed with 4 considerable detachment from Nigambo, Bal
and eroded a river 10© yards broad, deep, but not
rapid, the whole distance making about 11 nlilcs.j jetjt
" The Bth, moved forward, and reached a deep
Nullah, where had been a strong wooden bridge, 1
which the enemy destroyed on our approach. As cop
the Nullah was not fordable, it was necessary to re- pen
pair the bridge, which detained us some hours. em
The Nullah was diltant about four miles from our
former ground, and we encamped at Pafiibattal on her
the large river Mallway two miles farther. On
the opposite banks of this river, which is 170 yards
broad, the enemy were potted in considerable force, t(j ;
having with them fix pieces of light cannon. nlu
" About two miles farther up, and nearly the tivi
fame distance towards the fca, they had established cor
themselves in the fame manner. We halted until
we were joined by Colonel- Stuart with the line, mc )
and to allow time to provide rafts and boats. This
ri»er is three miles from Colombo ; and every ap- g ta
pearance threatened an obltinate refinance. to 1
"Ob the 10th, the enemy perceiving probably coi
some of our parties, discharged 18 guns, but with- ing
out doing us any damage.
" On the nth, to our complete aftoniftiment,
this formidable pass was discovered to be abandoned,
and with the utmost expedition we crbflei almost t0
all the army in the course of the fame day. W V
"On the 1 zth, the flank companies were at- th<
tacked by 200 Europeans and 600 Malays. The flic
line was ordered to advance for th.eir support ; but
before any of the corps could render any effe&ual
aid, they had charged and totally defeated the ene
my.—This happened almost under the walls of Co
lombo- _ _ Ei
«« In rtfis gallahfana decifive~slfair, our loss Wa»
two European grenadiers killed, and nine wounded.
Volunteer Grant was severely wounded, aod Cap- s IC
tain French flight!)'. The enemy loft about 170 C o
killed and wounded, chiefly Malays. Some officers r y
of rank fell, and Lieutenant-Colonel Raymond is p C
dead of his wounds. rri
"In the beginning of the action, the Malays as
displayed their usual treachery, and appeared be hi
fore our pods making signs of fubmiflion, laying de
their dresses, &c. on the ground : a Dutch officer i s
disgraced himfclf by a similar conduct. de
'• We have now taken up our final position a- ed
bout 3CO yards from the fort, in the flcirts of the 0 f
Pettah, and all our are now to land our fp
artillery and stores. This bofiiiefs will soon be de
cided : they have given us no disturbance since the ev
action, and all our accounts agree in their disunion w
and defpundency." tr
" Colombo, Feb. 16, 1796. a J
" I have unfeig'ned pleafare in giving you the rl
earliest intimation of our success.—Colombo this
day capitulated to Colonel Stuart.
" The disunion and want of exertion zmongft "
tke enemy, Lugge&ftLlhe propriety of summoning P !
the fort; and Major Agnew, the Adjutant-Ge- 11
oeral, was accordingly dispatched with a flag of ~
truce. —This happened on the 14th, and towards 01
evening a cessation of hostilities was proclaimed fipr w
24 hours, when it was understood that articles of h;
capitulation were agreed to. f
" The 15th was employed in finally adjnfting lt
the teims of the surrender ; and this morning, at
ten o'clcek, the flank corps of the three regiments, 8
two companies of aitillery, the 52 regiment and
grenadier battalion, took pofleffion of this import- B
ant eonqueft. 31
" Since the affair of the 12th not one (hot had
been exchanged, and every step of the enemy had n
exhibited the molt apparent marks of imbecility b
and indecision.
" I am not informed of the particular articlea
of capitulation ; but learn, that in general they are
becoming the Britilh character—highly favorable
to the besieged, jvithout doing any injustice to the
interests of our honorable employers ; and that a
bo«t £. 6q,0C0 of paper currency is to bear an in-
tereft of 3 per cent, for which our government is
p to become fecnrity. J
" The public property of Colombo is immense,
without noticing the great quantity of riches at P. a
de Galle, included in the capitulation, as well as (
every other pod remaining with the Du:ch : four a
companies of Madras Sepoys failed last night, to t
take pofleffion of P. de Galle, which finifhes the j
complete reduction of the Island of Ceylon.
" The capture of Colombo may, without any j
hazard of contradiflion, be deemed one of the
rood valuable that has ever fallen to our arms:—the i
1 article of cinnamon alone is valued at a sum of no
less magnitude than 26 fackd of pagodas.
" The garrison consisted ef 800 soldiers, 500 j
sailors, 1,100 Malays,' 300 Sepoys, and 700 Cin- .
galefe, besides burghers." :
~ i
Philip Nicklin & Co. i
HAVE FOR SALE,
Souchong
Hyson Skin / '
Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS
Hyson and \
Imperial J 1
Yellow Nankeens , 1
Chi*a Ware, assorted in Boxes and Chests
Quicksilver
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
Market \ MADEIRA WINK ,
London particular >in pipes, hogfteads, &
New-York Market ) quarter caflcs
TenetifFe Wine in pip«s and hogfaeads
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. i a 8
Lead in sheets
3 Caiks of Cutlery aflorted
A few chests of Manchester Goods, assorted thick
• fetl, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-root.-
Nails aflbrtcd in calks
July 18 mw&f
» * ,
r
y Philadelphia, hcri
1- loa(
I, TUESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 10, 1796. I
tha
Married, by the Rev. William Marshall, Robirt con
1- Reed, of this city, to Miss Catherine Connor, of of 1
>, Baltimore. owl
" Yesterday morning the Prcfident of the Unitad States j°",
left this city for Mount-Vernon.
p . pn:
: > A correspondent has furnifhed us with the follcwing ' iei
.s copy of a decree »f the Queen of Poitugal, for fuf- to 1
»- pending all intercourse with Holland, and laying an yoi
s _ embargo On the Dutch vefTeli in her dominions : —
ir THERE having beeh printed to her Majesty, by
n her envoy extraordinary to the United States, in a
n difpatcli dated the 15th of June last, ihe copy of a
l 3 Letter he had received from the Committee of Foreign Si*
Affairs of that Republic, in which is communicated Thi
to him the resolution for fulpending all political com- 41
munication with the said minister, as the Reprefenta- 5)
ie tive of her Majesty the Queen of Portugal, 'till the Def
:d conclusion of Peace with the Republic of Erance —in- BA
il timating by the abov'ementioned letter that all com- —r
e mercial relations should also be suspended.
• ' Under these circumstances her Majesty has judged
18 proper to suspend on her part, all commerce with the "
?' States General of the Low Countries, and to prohibit
to her vassals, all and every commercial tranfa&ion and
ly connexion With the fubje£U of the Republic, prohibit- On
a- ing from this time all navigation to the ports of those —
States.
t And moreover her majesty has been pleafcd to fuf- '
pend in her dominions, all and every tranfaflion with
v the a/orefaid United States of the Belgic Provinces, anal _
to forbid the transportation of their property, under
whatever title, out; of the Kingdom ; and finally that . 3
it- the departare of the Dutch veflels in her dominions
be fliould be entirely suspended, remaining under embargo
Ut 'till further orders from her Majesty.
j And that this may be known unto all and executed
accordingly, the present has been made public.
Lisbon, July 19, 1796. gj,
Extras ef a leffrr, from an American Gentleman in g r
~ Havre, dated July 25.
d. " Evety thing is quiet in this country.—Provi-
P" fions in plenty and cheap which .being the greatelt
7° conlideration with the French especially bread, eve
■r" ry thing else is forgotten and they are the happjeft
• s people in the world. fuccefles which afto- c
rrifli Europe are considered in much the fame light
ys as their.lofles, barely related and that is all—they
> e have no effect whatever either in mush railing or
n g dep re fling their fpiri'.s—ln fact it is well that such
:«■ is their manner (jtherwife the gloom mult exceed
description, for every body, more or less has fuftain
a" ed a loss in property, family or friends—but nothing
he of this kind is perceived, all appears lively and in
'Ur spirits. SI
1«- The government appears to be firmly established,
he every domeltic disturbance is suppressed ana the
on whole country from one end to the other enjoys
tranquility—Liberty of speech and of the press A
are allowed as freely as with us—Agriculture flou. f c
he rifhes beyond conception—The police is so ftrift Jc
hig that highway robberies are hardly known. fc
Manufactories are encouraged by gifts from the N
gft Nation—Schools are about eltablifhing in' every
n g part—Religion is the fame as prior to the Revolu- rn
; e . tion. Liberty of religious opinions is held sacred di
Q f —the arts are much encouraged and in general fach v<
rE |3 measures are about taking to render the people as p;
f or wife if poflible as they are brave—Latterly there V i
of has been no great talk of a peace tho' from the C
continued fuccefles of the French this Campaign S
n g it cannot be far diftaat. w
at Franckfort is in their hands and they are still pro- «
ltß grefling in the enemies Country.—Buonaparte the
md General in Italy has lent upwards of One hundred si
irt . millions oflivresto Paris in specie ; ab6ut the fame '»
amount to Genoa and has maintained his whole ar- v<
lad my by the contributions he levied and the pay- £
, a( j ments he received as the pi ice of peace from a num- n
"Jty b«r of princes." (Aurora.) «
ri
ire BY THIS day's MAIL.
ble
the NEW-YORK, September 19.
, a " It is said that Lieutenant Cudworth was lately
"?* killed in a duel by Lieut. Geddei, at Weft-Point.
■16 By Capt. Burnham, of the brig Dean, in 49
days from Havre-de Grace, French papers have
Ji' been received from Paris to July 25, by which it ,
appeaVs, that success attends the French armies in '
as Germany. The duke of Wirtemberg has proposed
our an armistice, which is acceded to. The fame by
1 to the Marquis of Baden, who has sent miuifters to
l ' ie Paris to negociate a peace.—
Capt. D. informs, that every thing in France is
an y in a flourithing (late—a great crop of grain is ex
l'le pedted. Flour was offered in Havre, July 29, for
t^le 48 livres, cash. By a decree, mandats uo longer
n0 pass as cash ; all agreements made in specie are paid
in specie. Nothing but specie is pafling at Havre.
Every thing low—good beef, two pence a pound.
" in " Specie is plenty, since paper has ceased to circulate
as money. Trade and manufactures begin to flou
=- rifh.
The French have imposed on the city of Frank
fort a contribution of 37 millions of florins j about
three millions and a half sterling.
, Accounts from Genoa state, that the French go
vernment has demanded of the Genoese govern,
ment to shut all their ports against all English ships
of war and merchantmen. It is added the fame
demand is made ef Spain, and that the Court seem
ed disposed t® comply.
j n * BALTIMORE, September 17-
But one thing more remains to be done by tha 1
goodly great man George Washington (should
' & he decline the prefidentialchair) to fill up the mV
fure of his glory—and that is} to conciliate the
jarring pafiions of convulsed Europe, and restore
to that devoted quarter of the globe, what he has
so wifely preserved te his own happy country, the
INESTIMABLE BLESSINGS of a LAST
iick- {NG PEACE If this, as EfchafTsriaux aflerts,
is to be accomplifh'ed only by a congress of wife
men, who so fit to preside, as he who has fh»wn
to an admiring-world, that peace is a gem that he
dares to prize, above the love of vulgar fame.
I
WILMINGTON, September 19. 1
The brig Sally, capt. Andrew Elerfon, arrived »-j- (
here on Thursday la ft, in 23 dayi from Jaetnsl
loaded with coffee and cotton. of thi
Mr. Warne, supercargo of the Sally, informs, ?f "
that on the 14th ult. a proclamation i(Tued by the gj® 1
- comraiffiotiers at the cape, was publicly read in one s^( j,
f of the muiicipal oificcs at Jacmel, addressed to the fuppe
owners and captains of the French cruisers, to the puMi.
following purport All American vessels taken, P l 'd j
destined to any Englilh port in tins Iflaod i»>e good l(
prizes; & for your encouragement they (hall be tried „ j- {v
, fre« of cods, & after condemnation you are at liberty "far
- to difpofecf them in any port, or in any manner " on:
1 you plcafe. - *'
" " " the
" on<
1 STOCKS. u ° h<
1 —7 " gk
• Si* per Cent. - - - - - - tuft " ds;
i Three per Cent. - -- -- - tofj " dti
- 4A per Cent. - - none for sale. • - 14/ lafiprice "qu
-si per Cent. - - 16,6 " tio
e Deferred Six per Cent. ... - 13/6 to 7 ad
- BANK United States, - - - JO pr. cent. Tnten
- -7 P*nnfylTjriivi, ... - zj meat
—-—- North America, - - - .46 feribi
\ Insurance C»mp. North* America, 40 per ceat. adv powe
e ». Pennlylyania, 5 per cent. credi
r ■ is eft;
i COURSE OF EXCHANGE. g""
. On London, at 30 days, per £.100 fteri. par. K
e at todays, par to 161 1-1
—— at 90 days, 161 i 161 l-i
r. Amfterdara, 60 days, per guilder, 41
h 9 o days, 40
- TrrKT—m—ll ftocV
r book
1 GAZETTE OF THE VHI TED STATES MARINE LIST. whel
15 mem
o —• attor
PHILADELPHIA, September a©, nies t.
d —-'*• • *iaruf
ARRIVED, days.
Ship Dominick Terry, Dehart, Kingston 47 t„
Richmond, Newell, Martinique 43
" Brig Sally, Jackson, Cape Foancois 15 o,
Two Siflcrs, Easrlefdn, . s do. 17
i- Brandywine Miller, Culver, St. Croix li g
ft Elizabeth, I'ullerton, Kingston 30 t fw
c- Minerva, Quandrill, Jamaica 35
ft Snow Ceres, Mann, Havannah 20 his a
Schr. Gen. Gieene, Pease, Cape-Francois li
Melona, Burnet, St. Thomas 23
Hope, Pearfon, do. 15
T Lovely Lass, Cribbing, Port-au-Prince 19 I
>r Maria, Cunnyngham, ' do. Ji
:h Good Intent, Hathaway, St. Bartholemews 14 I
:d • Arrived at the Fort. I
q- Brigs, Flora, Stephins, Havanna I 'J
Georgia Packet, M'Kever, St. Thomas J ~
•° Dianna, Gu;fe, Havanna 1 ;
Schr. Eagle, Johnson, .La Borgnc I
Sloops. Induflry, Wharton, v Antigua j
1C New-London, September j vc
ys , Arrived (hip Hope, J. L. Bufwell, 16 days from I Si
■Is Anguijla, and 30 days from Martinico ; left there I ""*"
u- fchr. Heroine, J.Smith, to fail in 14 days—fchr. I
A John, Rice, tnalter. Left at §t. Bartholemews, I
fchr Hope, H. Church, to fail in three days for I
Jie New-York. V jTA
ry Capt. Bufwell was informed at St. Barthole- J c i t)
u- mews, by an Amencan captain of his acquaintance I 1
?d dire&ly from Martinico, that a British vessel arri- j dai
:h ved at the latter iiland on the 1 tth ult. jn a (hort I ton
as passage from England, with dispatches for the Go-j
re vernpr, containing the important intelligence of I
be GREAT-B RITAIN having declared -war agatnji Jof
I" SPAIN. The frigate lay off and on while a boat 1 W!l
was sent on shore, when (he proceeded to the lee- j jJ
0- ward. t _ j ap]
he Ship Independence, John Stockin'g, 59 days I :
ed from Liverpool j flic was dismasted Monday the sth | pr
ne inft. off Nantucket (hoals in a very heivy g»le of I
>r- wind : The day before the gale, spoke the ship J
y- Black River, Capt. Dobfon, bound to Nantz, who tej
m- mufl have felt the gale, as it came from the Eaft-1 at
ward. Capt. Stocking brings nothing from Eu- I
rope of a later date than has been previously re- I ( h
ceived. I re
• , I ei
New-York, September 19. I lai
ARRIVED. hi
, Brig Dean, Burnham, Havre de-Grace 49 f cl
Eliza, M;Leod, Londonderry 56
' Lucretia, Tabor, Port-au-Prince j _
' Success, Stevenson, New-Orleans I
iV Nancy, Barclay, Cape Nichola Mole 21 I
j n Schr. Sophia, Roife, Turk's lfland 10 I
£ e( j Sloop Dispatch, .Eafon, Guadaloupe jN
Rising Sun, Warren, St. Bartholemews j C
to "
C
THIS DAY PUBLISHED, fc
:13 By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, b,
ex " (Price it i.» Cents)
ger The President's Address d
laid To the People of the United States, JI
ore. Announcing his intention of retiring from public life I
n j at the expiration of the present constitutional term of I
j " prefidcncy. . I
tC September 10. d
lou- I
nk- JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
tout No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late vessels from Europe, &c. j
go. AND HAVE lOR SALE, I \
»rn- A general affortraent of GOODS, fuitnble to the fcalbn— J j
i,; DS Amo.t;ft whirh are,
TJROAD and narrow Ct.OTHS, I t
amc I> Plain and twili'd COATINGS,
em " Rose striped and point BLANKETS, | c
FLANNELS and B AISES,
HATS assorted in cases,
IRISH LINENS, i J |
INDIA GOODS, generally, I (
tha' A Consigned Invoice of IRONMONGERY, |(
auld Comprising a capital assortment to open a ftore—inelu- I
v ding Thirty Calks of NAILS. This invoice will be fold I '
j'" entire on very advantageous terms.
'he September 20. d 1
tore ————— — I 1
ha, , WANTED,
the Two JOURNETMEN BOOK-BINDERS, 1
ST- OOP steady workmen will meet- with constant em- 1 1
erts, vJ ployihent, and good wages ;by applying td JOHN j'
wife CURTIS, No. 43, North Fourth-ftrcet.
N. B. BOOK-BINDING in all its different branches, I i
n executed with neatness and.dispatch. Public and private I
libraries repaired In the n«ateft ani best manner.
September 10. ' lw |
d- - / /
* f '
Treasury of the United States.
' \TOTICE is hereby given to all persons who ?.rc ""
I l\ may be Creditors of the United States, iyrany !j;
of the Funded Debt, or Stock, beiring a frtjent intereji of J'*
t f>er centum per annum.
ill, That pursuant to an A6l of Congrcf; paiTsd on «ha
48th day of April, 1796, intitled an aCi in .-ufiition to ?.H
: ail, intituled " An»£t making further pravjf 011 In- the
: support of public cradit, and for iiie r.:'! .. lion bf tin:
: public debt,"- the said debt or stock will be reimburse 1 a'.ld
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by divi.-lcrtdj
j " to be made on the last days of Msrch, Juneand'Sei>ffn!-
" ber for theprefent year, and from theyear ottethoularid
" seven hundred and nincty-feveii, to the ye;ir one thou
r •' sand eight hun fred Sc eighteen in luflve.ut thi: rate of
■ •' one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
«' Secondly, by dividends to be madewi the lift diy of
" December (or the present year, afcd from the y roni
" theiifand seven hundred and nin> ty»fi:ven, to the y:-ar
" one thoafand eight hundred and seventeen inchlfiVe, at
" the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
« ginalcapital;and by a dividends be ma c on the last
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of such futn, as will be then a<le
s " quite, according to the contrail, the final rcdemp
" tion of th- said flock."
ad. All diftin&ion between payments on account of
Interefl and Principal being thus abolidied by the eltabiiik
meat of the permanent rule of reknburfement abov« de*
scribed, it has become neceflary to vary accordingly the
pawers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
is eftaMlftied for all powers of attorney which may bo
granted after the due promulgation ol this notice, viz.
IKNOW ALL MEN BT THESE PRESENTS, that
1 * of in
do n.zir, tonflitute and appoint
of my true and lawful At
torney,for me ,and itt my tarm, to receive the dividends wb ch are,
or Jhall be payable according to law, on the (here describing the
doc\) Jlanding in my name in tie boohs of (here describing the
books of the Treasury or the Commifiionor of Loans,
where the flock is credited) from (here insert the com>
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to Continue) tuith power also an attorney or attor
nies under him, for that purpose to make and do alt
'lawful a£ls requijitefor effe&ing tbepremifes, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that my said Attorney or hisfubjlitute, Jhall lawful"
ly do, by virtue hereof
I In, iVitnefs hereof I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal the
■' ! day of in the year
5 Sealpd and Delivered
in prtfcnc^>f
* BE IT KNOIVN, that on the day of
O efire meperfonally came
$ within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be
O bis aft and deed.
6 In tefli mony whereof 1 have hereunto set my Hand and affix*
3 | ed Seal the day and year lafi aforefaid.
5 I Given under my Hand at Philadelphia-, this twen
-9 I lie th day of July 1796, pursuant to dife&ion#
ii I flirom the Secretary of the Treasury,
4 SAMUEL MEREDITH,
7rtafuter of tie United Staler.
13 *7% *3. w&rt ly.
"I For NEW-YORK,
lc Tht Ship LIGHT HORSE >
I To fail in a few days* and will take freight
I very low. Apply to,
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
ft* | September 20. d 4
re I 1 1 1 " 1 1 , r
r - Samuel Rjchardet,
,J ; n ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
| *V. Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
1 TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
e " J city of Philadelphia.
ce j The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all ths
[[. j daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos-
It I ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal coir
{ mercial cities of Europe—Tkey will be regularly filed
I and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
°f | Tea, Cofiee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
nfi } of French Liquors; together with the usual refrelhments,
>at I 'Will at all times be procured at the bar.
I Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated Witlf
[ the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the moll
I approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries,
lys I xhe Larder will befupplied with the pHme and earliest
;th I produftlons of theSeafon.
o f| Large and small Parties, or fingl&Gentlemeh, may be
l; I accommodatM with Breakfafls, Dinners, or Suppers, at
I hours mod convenient to thsmfelves—a Cold Collation is
I regularly kspl for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had
jft- 1 at ths bar;
in- I The Lodging Rooms will be Completely furniftied, and
te I the utmoil attention paid to cleatilinefs, and every other
I requisite.
I RicHAHOEr will behappyto.receive,and
I execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
I large; apd with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
j himfelf that nothing on his part (hall be wanting to pre
an I serve that patronage w]thwhioh he has been so diftinguifh
r6 "igly fionored.
f j Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
' 2I Brokers Office, and
10 COMMISSION, STORE.
J No. 63 South Third ftr«et,oppofite the national new Bant.
\ QAMUEL M FRAUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
I O have entered into co-partnerfliip, under the firm of
— FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the bufmefs «f Brokers,
J Conveyancers and Comrhiflion merchants. They buy and
I fell on commission every species of stock, notes of hand,
, I bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &e. all kinds cf
I writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness anfl
'SS I dispatch; accounts adjuiled, and books fettled, in the
most correift manner. Constant attendance will be given,
life 1 fol'cit a lhare of the public favor ; they are deter
c I mined to endeavour to deserve it.
II 0 I N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
I, SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
{ JOHN VAN REED
—— I Philad. Augutl 17, 1796. m&wtf
BRA N'D Y,
&c. I P ro °f» equal in quality to that import
' I ed from Franft, may be had of the fubferiber at hit Dtftil-
I lery, No. 115, Story or New-street, between Third and
bn— I where the public, upon application, may
I judge for themfelvej, and will find it an object well worm
I their attrition.
RUM and GIN in ?ny quantity, for exportation or home
I consumption) and of superior quality—by
I Thomas Cave..
P.S RYE, MALT, BARLEY, and MELASSES, will
I be purchased, or taken in exchange for spirits* upon appli-
I cation as above. Also any quantity of Clarfet or other wine
I (it for di fliilation.
ndu- I Auguftag.h, 1796. M4W
: fold Mr. FRANCIS,
d j ' (Of the New Theatre)
—~~ nnAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to hisl
I X scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
I on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
t em- 1 demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
3HN I flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
j therto renders any promises of conducing his future
iches, j schemes on the most liberal and ftridteft terms, of pro*-
rivate j priety, totally unneceflary.
I N. B. Private tuition as usual,
»w J June 3 lawMordecai Lewis ft
HAS FOR SJLE, th
NANKEENS, loflg and fliort. lei
China, well allotted. fa
Quicksilver. ce
Diapers • if
Baftas. pi
Coflai. fii
Bandano Handkerchiefs- df
RoU Brimstone. di
Sept. 6. tt&fim m
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart) n
WITH a LOT ef GROUND thereunto belonging,
the weft fide «f Third-street, near Union-street
containing in front 31 feet, and in depth 100 feet, to an
alley leading into Union-street. The house is 31 feet front
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
large, Gommodions, and completely finilhed; the twofirft
(lories are each 13 feet high; there are 20 mahogany
doors in the house ; a geometrical staircase, with mahoga
ny rails and a g»od Iky-light. The kitchen is in the cell
ar, which is spacious and convenient, and finilhed with an
oven, stew-holes and pantries, a servants' hall and large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an
area in which there i« a pump. The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat three-story
brick house, on the north fide of Union-street, contain
ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; th* lower part of which
is at present occupicd as a compting-houfe, and the upper
part divided into well-finilhed large chambers.' This house
may at a small expense be converted into a convenient
dwelling : Theftreet door is very handsome, and the front
and back have Venetian window-lhutters. Adjoimngthe
last house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are creeled
bathing-xooms, &c. There are likewise very good coach
house and stables finilhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
in depth on the waft fide of said alley 52 feet. There are
good cellars under the whole of the buildings, and a wine
room over part of the liable, with a hay-loft over the re
ni.inder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD UONS.-.LL & Co.
jyt their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Pear
ti&f ftrects.
, 6*h rnomh 24th, 1796.
To> R S A L E.
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT 12 miles from this City, situate in Abmg
ton Townlhip, Montgomery-County ; containing
70 acres, a new stone house, two stories high, 2 rooms on a
floor, fire places in each, a Hone kitchen and stone spring
house, over an excellent fprjng of water, a tern, stables,
(beds, barracks, &c. A large apple orchard, and a varietyof
other 12 acres o£ good meadow well watered,
and wood fufficient for fire, and fencing the place. Poflrifi
on may be had the ift of April next. Property in this city
» will be taken in exchange, or MORRIS and NICHOLSONS
Notes in payment, inquire at No. 37, Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, September 13, 1796, ' ttftf
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED TWITVENHAM, situate in* tke
township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 l-i miles from Phiiacklphia, and half a mile from the
new Western road ? containing 239 acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of tha firft quality. There are
on the premises a good two ftury brick houle, with 4 rooms
on a floor, ind cellars under the whole, with
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, stables,
and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and stone,
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of th£m, which renders k peculiarly con
venient for grazing. '
The situation is pleasant and heal thy, and from the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
<Jeceafedj and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Odi. 9. tt&f Surviving Executor.
A Manufadtofy FOR SALE.
A Valuakie SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
©ri an entirely original conftru£hon, and built of the best
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Person*
wbowilhto purchase, are requested to .apply at No. 273,
south Second Street.
.September 13. ' t t f tf
WANTED,
For any teim from one to four years,
A HOUSE, pleasantly fituatcd In any of tbe principal
streets within the pavement, and not very distant from
»ie .State-House, capable of accommodating a small fami
ly ; the house mull have stables and coach-house, and
would be required to be ready by the firft week in No
vember next —Euquirc of the printer.
Sept. 14. ttf
Lands of the United States
Treasury Department, /tugufl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN pursuance of an a£l of Congress, passed on the 18th
day of May, 1796, entitled " An a<Sl providing " for
the sale of the lands of the United States, in the Territo
ry north weft of the river Ohio, and above the mouth of
Xentucky river," that the fc&ions or lots of land descri
bed in the annexed schedule, lying in the seven - ranges of
townlhips, which were furvcyed in pursuance of an ordi
nance of Congress, passed on the twentieth day of May,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five,
will be exposed forfale at Pub lie vendue, in mk town ol
Pittlburgh in Pennffivania, on the twenty-fourth day of
October next, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the firft day of December enfuiug,unle r »the ftid lots lhall
be sooner fold, in the taa:iner, and oh tue terms and con -
ditioijs herein after mentioned, to wit :
I ft. The said feAions or lots (hall be fold under the di
fedtion of the Governor oi Secretary of the Weileru Ter
ritory, and such person as the President of the United
States mayfpecially appoint for that purpofc.
id. The said fe&iocs or !<»>< (hall be folded the higkeft
. bidder,but 110 sale can be made for less than two dollars
per acrc of the quantity of land contained in such lojt or
leition.
3, Thehigheft bidder as before mentioned, mud depo
iit at the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pure'afe
money,in the hands of such person asthe President of the
United States lhall appoint to attend the sales for that pur
pcfe, which will he forfeited, if a moiety of. the sum bid,.
including the said twentieth part, (hall not be paid witftin
thirtydays from the time of sale.
4th. upon payment of a moiety of the ptirchafe money
in the manner before mentioned, the purchaser will be
entitled to or.e year s crcdit for the remaining moiety ;
and lhall receive frym the Governor «r Secretary of the
Wcftern Territory, ano the person who lhall be appointed
by the President of the United States, to direfi the fales,a
etrtificate describing tha lot or f.<slion pur chafed, and de
flaring thefum paid on account, the balance remaining chje,
the time when lueh balance becomes payable, and that
rh? whole land thci eia mentioned, will be ferfeited, if the
fajd balance is not then paid ; but if the said balance lhall
T»e duly difcharged,by paying tlie fame tfithe Treaforer ot
the United States,'the purchaser or his affiance or other
legal representative, (hall be entitled to a, patent for the
said lands,on his producing to the Secretary of State a re
ceipt for such balance endorsed upon the certificate. But
if any purchaser lhall make payment of the whole of the
parchafe money, at the time when the payment of the J
firft moiety is diredled to be made, he will be entitled to a
deduction of ten per centum on the part for which a ere-
dit is authorized to be given; and his patent lhall be im " Ke
mediately lfTued.
Given under my hand at Philadelphia, the day and
year above mentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Trejfury
Schedule of feS'ions of town/hips, »r fractional parts da
t of townjhips, to be fold at Pilljburgh, in pursuance 11:1
m of the 6th feflion of an aft of Congress, passed on
it the 18th day of May, 1796.
re' _____ I hi;
<f S . o . . dc
,y S « JSS £ 14 s 2 V
I* o S O 'oSo
1- d < o < 2 d < S p«
IH Z is ch
;e -a — " St
in ill Range. 6tViTownlhip. 6th Kange. jn
d. ift Townlhip. !?aia64oeach iftTownlhip. t j,
■y 28 j. 6j 14 640 17 3 so
1- 19 156 95 17310640 each 18 170 m
:h 30 450 75 25336640 each n gSO - be
=r 34 240 90 BthTownfhip- 22 r66 40 at:
fc 35 a 36 640 each ? ai4 64o|each zj <27 fh
111 2d Townlhip I 7a2o64oeath *4 i 4O th
nt 19 140 23 640 27 Jsl 80 b<
10 l 7° 70 25330 640 each 28130 111
l_ 21 33 a 36 6401e3ch 33 58 P"
■ ' 11 230 iothTownlhip. 34*36 6ito)e ac h
25 488 80 lal 640 each 2d Township- . '
re 26327 640 each 5314640 each I 126
le 28 560 17820640 each 1 440 _
e 29 551 60 13336 64oleach 3 448 m
30 564 i2thlTown(hip. 4 456 til
640 each iai4 64o|each 5 464 ], e
ar 4thTownlhip. r -1120,640 each 6 472 ce
J 9 <>4 23a36[6401each 7 340 gi
25 640 = Bai4(S4oeach
26 387 60 4^ Ran °F* 17320 640eac'a
27 36 ill Townlhip. , 3 -,3 6 640eac l
31332640 each 24 03650 3 d Township.
33 616 2 9 636 50 J 4?0
g- 34 *45 »o 30 640 a 4? g
lg 35 222 50 34 &I 5 3 86
36 1620 35*36 640 each
"8 jthTownlhip. id Townlhip. V O:
6 i 39 20 *65! 60 I £1 fu
f « 479 30 3*6 640 each ?al4 5 64oeach th
17 304 15 I i 0 I7 a#o'64ceach
ty 18 63850 3 038 23336 640 each
JS ®3 450 7'5 9 ala 640 each Jt hTownftip.
24 640 J 3 335 x !l8 «:
29 184 14 640 . 6
30 6ao 17320640 each «
35 312 80 jit? 4° 0
36 640 3dTownlhip | > c
»= 64o:each i .
be 2d Range. 64c;e3ch n \ . 5
re, IftTownlhip. 23336 64o|e3chi ?aI4 4 ° e
he 28 ]7I i<3 s thTownllnp. I7a2 °^ oea^
'd. 34 1 6150 iar 4 |6 4 64C 0! ~
d- 3d Townlhip, 173261640^Lch ,th
■re 24326 640 each 23336 £40 esch' 506
28 4 '99 !6 7 thTownfhip. 1 57» 40
29 640 la a 64o(cach Z ,
cs ' 31*33 64oe*<rh Ja7 6 4 3each| 4 60
,e > 4thTownlhips 12313 640 e3cli { 593
11 | 26 40 18319 44®each t,
1239750 25 7a 14 640 esch
Z 13 51 50 30336 640 each <7**o 640 each
»5 *3 50 9 thTownlhip. *3*36 64oleach
h 16 259 20 iai4]6 4 de3ch 9 th Townlhip.
fe 17 5*4 . 1732064ceach lal4 :H eac ''
18 640 a 36 6 4oeach «7«o6 4 cJeach
19 635 nth Townlhip. *3 a 3£ 6 4°;each
2058480 i 314 64o|each
21 17 a20 6 4 o l each J al 4 Meach
12336 640 each 23336 6 4 0 each *7* 2 »)640.e3ch
sthTownfhip. ijthTownlhip. 2 3*36i640k3ch
- 5 si' 1 ai4 6 4 ojeadi
637 6 4 « ach 17420640 each lal 4j«4C esch
23325 64c each 23336640 each I?a^
te 27318 64c each = 23 a36j64o,each
' w ' 32336 6 4 c|each SthRANGE. i s thTown(hip.
7t'hTownlhip. iftTownlhip. i3i4|6 4 oleach
3 16401 18 *74] 40 17a20|6 4 0 each
' BthTownfhip. 22 g 7 -5° *3*3 6 6 4 o|each '
f_ ia 5 640e3ch 2 3 427 50 7th rTnge.
6 V C i 26 tl iftTownlhip.
7a 14 64a cach »6 70
17320640 each *7 394 *o j6 J
?al 23336 640 each 25 034 ad Townlhip.
om 9thTownlhlp.l a 3°j64o each
ni. 6 640 3i 18 | M
30 , 5a6 640 each
lo- 11 640 64o|tach
13314 64c „ch ld 10312 640 each
19320 64c e3ch 2 180 20 14 , 0
23336 64b each 3 430 17318640 each
3d Rancs. . 4; 6 19 '4
2d Townlhip. (, 464 80 20 ,
15 7 i SC *3*24 640 each
sth 16 600 g 6j3 »5 '8c
for 55 750 9314 640 each 16a , 3 ' 640 " ch
tO . 21322 640 each 17 320 64c each, 4th Townlhip.
of 23- 609 t3a36t6 4 oleach
:ri- 25336 64oe3ch 4 th lownlhrp. i7* 2 q6 4 o e ach
.of 3d Townlhip. 1 3i 4 6 4 ojeich 2 3 a 36l64c^*ch
di- 9 i88j»6o 17320 6 4 oe3ch fithTownlhip.
10 344 23336 6 4 oeach 1 *l4|6 4 o,e3ch
n. 267 6thTownlhip. 1 7 *20 640 leach
12 1 a 14 6 4 01e3ch
14 202 5° i ; r.206 4 oLch SthTownlhip.
uU J 5 c 630 13*36 6 4 opach i*M6 4 cJeach
16318 640 esch BthTownlhip 17*20640 each
19 21750 iai4 6 4 eea3i 2 3*36 6 4 oeach
. 20 61675 i 7320 64c esch , iothTownlhip.
■er- 2l *'6 6 4 0,e3ch each : I**4 640 each
ited 4th Townlhip. iothTownfinp. i 1 2 ° 640 each
1 '7° 1 ai 4 |64dteach 2 3*36 6 4 o^3ch
best 1 5 44 1732 c. 64b!eaeh ; !I ownlhip.
iars 3 20 233361640teac1> 1 1 ar 4|6 4 o.each
tor 4 450 JthTownlhip. 1 each
5 "P I3i 4 ls4cleach »3*36|6 4 o|e3ch
jpo. 6 640 I7a2oK, 4 deach Uthlownfcip.
'■afe 7 563 23336 6 4 o|eacb ' lal "|64o|each
r the B*9 64c each i 4 thTownfhip 17*20 6 4 ojeaeS
pur- 10 540 80 j iai 4 T,4o|eacli 6 4 c l e * ch
bid, 11 52970 1732 c 64c|each l I ® thTowTlftliP
tftin 12114640 esch 23a361640|each i r * l 4/>4o|each
17a20 640 e3ch 117320 640 each
oney 83336 640 each J |23*j6|64olfach
1 be
«y; ■ note.
nted r nr T^ Eq " anti \ ;eß La " (, ; in townlhips be-
W Hn '7 e ,;* Cl ? flVe 0f dle Lots "served by the
Un ted States and also of those formerly fold—The ae-
Z' ErTV h ' ? VCral orfraaional
f hat ' P a "» of townlhip,, have been afeertained by adtual fur-
IfX P lrt,cular « feaion., have
the been no otherwifeafcertaiued than ty calculation.
feANDS of the United States.
Treasury Department, • ,
/luguft 8, 1796- ;
Public Notice is hereby given, e
TN pursuance of an ait of Congress patted on the iStli
da* of May. 1796, entitled " an ail providing " for
the fal'e of the Lands of the United States, in the territory j
north-weft of the river Ohio, and above " the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the Quarter Towafhips of land
dflcribed in the annexed schedule, lying in the seven rang- _
es of townships which wei;e surveyed in pursuance of an
ordinance of Congress, pal Ted on the twentieth day of
Mav, in the year one tkoufand feveri hundred and eighty
five, will be exposed for sale at VENDUE, at
. he Merchants'Coffee-Houfe in Philadelphia, on the 4th
day of January next, and thenceforward from day today,
until the tenthday of Fabr«ary ensuing, unless the said
quarter townships shall be foensr fold, in the manner and
on the terras and conditions hereinafter mentioned : viz.
ift. The said quarter townfliips lhall be fold to the
■ highest bidder, but no sale can be made for less than two
dollars per acre of the quantity of land contained in such
quarter townfhrp.
id. The highest bidder as before mentioned, moll de
posit a' the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur
chase money, in the hands of the Treafurerof the United
States, which will be fsrfeitedif a moiety of the sum bid,
including the said twentieth part, shall not fe» paid within
thirty days from the time of sale;
3d. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchafe-mo
ncy in the manner befor-mentioned, the purchaler will
■ be entitled to one year's' credit for the remaining moiety ;
and [hall receive a ccrtificate.defcribing the quarter town
(hip purchased, and declaring the sum paid on account,
the balanee.remaining due, the time when such balance
becomes payable, and that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not then
paid ; but if the said balaac? shall be duly discharged, by
paving the fame to the Treasurer of the United States,
the purchaser or his assignee or other legal representative,
shall be entitled to a patent for the said land, on his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
endorfedupon the certificate. But if any purchaser (hall
make payment of the whole of the purchase-money at the
time when the payment of the firft moiety is diredted to
be made, he will be entitled to a deduAion of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is mthfli irrrl tr» be, _
given ; and hlspatent shall be immediately lfiued.
GIVEN under ray hand at Philadelphia, tha day
and year abovementioned.
OLIVER WQLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
SCHEDULE
Of Quarter-Townlhips to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
suance of the 6thfe&ion of an aft of Congrtfs patted on
the 18th day of May, 1795.
1 . O Q.
1-*— * —
<5 •ST .2 - a 5
rG Cfl O
I g- | "3 h
£ lh S kg
u-. >- o ra
O fc. w G W
6 ° C * =.S
£og 5 v
*O 3 S
f
-2 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
3 5 South East 5120
Nonh East 5120
SauthWeft 5120
North 5120
■■ 20,480
7 South East 5120
North East j 120
South Weft 5120
North W e ft 5120
30,480
9 South East 5120
North Eali 5 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
H South East 5120
Nbrth East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
4 4 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
6 South East 5120
North Eafi j 120 j
South Weft 5120
North Well 5120
— 20,480
8 South East 5120
North East 5120
SauthWeft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
10 South East 5120
North East 5120
Sonth Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
X 2 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Welt 5 120
1 20,480
5 3 South East 4602
North East 4654
South Weft 5 120
North Weft. 5120 •
1 9>49^
5 , South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
t- 20,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weil 5120
be- [20,480
the 6 9 South East 5120 '
a 6" North East 5120
Zl South Weft .5120
ave jNuttii Weft 5120
j 20,480 ■
r
*• H
& <s s ?
"a. g «~cS
co -- 5 OH
cS ® «* v- L
e t-1 <u UJ
U- S " h -O 'J'
a k. c w
0 o <£ g <u
o E -1 r a <=
Z Si -3 „
CX S3
1 1 E- 1
y II South Eaft|yi2o
North East 5120
South Wefl y 120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
13 South East yl2O
North Eaftyi2oj
South Wefl 5120,
North Wefl 5120!
20,480
6 4 South Eafl 4630
North East 4620!
South Waft 5120 .
North Weft 5120,
' 19,49°
6 South E?ft 4730
North East 47 15
South Weft 51 20'
North Weft 5 120
19,685
8 South East j1 20
North East 5 I 20 |
South Weft y 1 20!
North Weft j 120
20,480
10 South East 5120
North Eaft'sl2o
South Weft J 1 20
North Weft|si2D
. L 20,480
— South-. Eaft<j-ia —. :
NortE~Eaft j 1 20
South Weft 512 c
North Weft ,yl2O
20,480
14 Soath Eafl 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
1 3 South East 5 120 j
North East 5 120
South Weft yl2O
North Weft 5120
—— 20,480
5 South
North East 5120
South Weft y 12®
North Weft yl2O
20,480
7 South East 5 120
North East 5120'
South Weft yl2O
North Weft 5 120
20,480
9 South JEaft £120 _i_ ■ '" L ' '
North East 5 120
South Wefl £1 20
North Weft y t2O
20,480
11 South East y 120
North East 5120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5 120
20,430
13 South Eafl y 120 .
North East 5 1 20
South Well y 1 20
North Weft 5120
20,480
15 South Eafl 5120
North Eafl 5120
South Weft j 120
North Wefl y
120
20,480
NOTE.
THE quantities of Lands in the several townlhips be*
fore mentioned, arc exclafive of the Se&ions ieferved by
th» United States. The aggregate quantities in the seve
ral townihips, have been ascertained by a&uat survey ; but
the quantities in the quarter townships, have been no v
otherwise than~by calcnration.
Washington Canal Lottery,
N 0 1.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifsd
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, from th Pt>:
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz-.1 Prize of ao,ooo dollars, 10,000
I ditte 10,000 10,000
7 lad drawn >
Tickets, each J s> oco 35>000
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
00 ditto 100 3,000
55 ditto 50 a>7JO
5750 ditto i» 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,150
5850 Prizes, *75,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
£3° The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid adl for the punflual payment of
the prizes.
rhe drawing ef this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are • Ibid, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th»
drawing is finifhed, shall be considered as relinquished for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly
(Signedj NOT LEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D
---LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEOUGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
„ JAMES BARRY.
City of Wafhmgtbn, Feb. 11. £
1 m ■-an— !■'—mwq«n. .n—-■ ■
PRINTED BY JOHNTENNO.
—No. iiq.—
CH T S N WT-STRFET.
. t^ ricc Eight Jiollars per Annum.]
Sis