<ga?ette »/•<& States, if Philadelphia Daily Advertise.
n SATURDAT EVENING, OCTOBER 29* 1796. [Volume X.
Number 1292. J - — — — ■
■ — —- ■ - " r m *t r* r it I r« * t t * /-v m tt \T7*# \ln *nC\
For SALE or CHARTER,
a The Brigant'we L r BE Rffl,
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Ma-Vr.
Now lying at Albertfon's wharf—
it an excellent vessel, will carry a
beut 1300 barrels flour, is completely
found, and re.dv to retire a cargo. For term*, ap
ply at No. 149. South Front-street.
When may be had by the package only,
A small ccpfignment of DRY GOODS, just re
wived —eenfifting of,
Superfine Hairbine, & > CAMBLETS.
China J
Crapes,
Corded Poplins,
Sattinet Lasting, &c.
Ms. a few bales CALCUTTA GOODS, -vrx.
Giuenihi,
Baflas,
Coflaes,
Titkery.,
Punjim Cloths,
Humhum.,
Gurrahs,
Black Taffetiei,
JulHcat. & I HANDKERCHIEFS.
Bandanna J
Choppa Romalt,
Patna Chintzes, Ac. &«.
Likewise a few hhds prime Molafles,
A large quantity of best Rhode-Island Cheese,
50 boxes Spermaceti candles, and
A few barrels Beef.
Oftobera?- eod 8t
For Charter,
The Ship Dominick Terry,
Jaeob De Hart, matter: an excellent
vessel, of about 3000 barrels burfhen.
JeJfe & Robert Wain.
September ?T. d
tJCT For Charter,
The Danifti B»rque Bsnsvestora,
Samuel Stub, matter,
good vessel, of about two
tent burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WALN.
Sept. 17. dtf
FOR LONDON,
The capital (Jiip CERES,
To fail fo*n : "For freight or passage
W&fSlMsi&Zz*pply to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
*John Vaughan,
September lo> Front-street.
* ' The Br 'v mar?,
Lying at Meffr!. Willing* and Francis's
wharf,bnrthen 1000 barrels, built in Philadelphia in 1793
of live oak and red cedar—Slit U well found, and may
be sent to sea at a small eipeecc. For terms apply o
Gurney Is Smith.
OA. 6. dtf.
Forßofton, Newbury-Port and Ports
mouth, New-Hampshire,
The Schooner LUCY,
Daniel Prowfe, matter; will fail hi
I ,®sjaV the eourfeof a week, and take freight
g on moderate terms, for which, or
* passage, apply on board, or to
Joseph Anthony, & Co.
Oflober 17. d
Just arrived, ahd will this day be lan-
Hed from on board the brig FAVORITE at, Chefmit
street wharf.
25 Tons btjl Rujjia Clean HEMP t
56 Ton»ol4 Sable flat IRON,
too CmU"heft RufTia CORDAGE, aflorted fizei,
4CO Pi flees brown RuiTia SHEjiTINGS,
jc® Bolts Ruflia DUCK,
940 Pieces Ravens do.
a© feather beds, and
A few pieces aborted DIAPER.
FOR SALE BT
Joseph Anthony and Co.
V le above mentioned BRIG
t 'O * few<iavt. and tak; freight on
"l.lirlWr"'"' 1 '" 1 ' terms for Boston or Salem, for
«*JsS«ssi!r-.which Of pillage, apply on board or as above
October 24.
For SALE,
The Schooner INDUSTRY,
sixty-seven tons burthen, almost a new'
vessel and well found. Eor terms apply to
JoJeph Anthony & Co.
If the Industry is not fold in a few days', ihe will take
freight very low for Boston.
O&ober 24. £-j
For Freight or Charter,
r&i The {hip COMMERCE,
NATHANIEL CURTIS, Matter.
J®' A,moftincw ve ff el > tons burthen, and will
be ready to receive a in a few days. For
Urnu apply on board at Bn-hl'i wharf, or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
I'or Sal.e on board the above Vejfel,
A quantity of excellent COAL.
63#" p e'fons having goods on board, are earnestly requcft
ed to ftnd their permits.
October 7i. d, ot
FOR SALE,
ihe ship mart,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
tScfcK Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, lbe will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
o<fh>ber»i. <frot
WANTS a situation as CLERK, in a mercantile house
in this-city, ayounp man who ean be well recom
mended : he is well acquainted with book-keeping, and
writes a good hand. Enquire of the .editor of the' Ga
zette of the United Statts.
CsSeber 13. <j 6it
LANDING,
I Out of different vessels from England, and for sale
by the fubfcrilers on reaf enable termr,
Superfine and common cloths, and cafiimers
~~ Ribbed and striped do. do.
Blankets , mottled green and silk rugs.
■y Superfine blue, Claret, and common costings,
P* Kerfsys, Bear-flcins, plains and Halfthicks,
Swanlkins, Serges and Flannels,
Britiih Ingrain Carpeting,
e- Hatsafforted in cases of i» doz. each.
Chocolate chinues, printed Callicoes and Handkerciiefs.
Scarlat Csrdinils, and Scarlet Snail,
Yarn, Worded, and Cotton hosiery,
Beavers, Thickfetfs, Velvets, Cprduroys, See. See.
Buff and drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality,
fed. Bd. lod lid. 2od. nails, and frying pans,
An a (Torment of tronmoneerry, Cutlery and a vatiety
of India cotton, and iilk gojds.
Thomas & JoJhua Fijher,
No. 5, Dock-fttrect.
Also by the Glasgow from Dublin,
1-8 and 4-4 Irish Linens affortedin boxes of 30 pieces)
do. Brown, GUzed Linnen.
Oa. 17. dtf.
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
/CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lis
bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
18 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanish wool
■ 3 do. of Annifecd
7000 Bushels of best Lifbnn Salt
So Boxes of Lemons
For file by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hogflieadi of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the fbip Dominick Terry, Qapt. De Hart,
from Kingftoji.
' Sept. 15. d
Just Arrived,
By the Fly, Captain Habber, from Linden,
" Double racked, Brown Stout Porter,
in hogsheads.
Painters' Colours, in i-t and 1-4 cwt. kegs, packed in
_ hogsheads.
Copperas in hogsheads.
Whiting, See. For Sale by
*» Peter Blight.
O&pber, «5. dxttsiw
c d
For Sale,
— This day Landing from on board the ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Amsterdam,
Oin, m pipes
Smpty Gin Cases
re Hock in cases of 4 doz.
)r Glass Tumblers in chefl*
Sweet Oil in eases
)*atte Graffe Cheese in boxes, (Sfc.
Also Landing by the Lotufa, Capt. Be//, from Lijbon,
60 Quarter-casks Lisbon Wine.]
On Hand,
A Quantity of Brandy, Hazle-Nuts in sacks, &c. '
Peter Blight.
OiSoier 17. dlw co2w
For Sale,
By Jehu Hollingfwortb, & Co,
_ 45 hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d a»4 4th proof,
5 Barrels best Indigo, and,
A few thnufand bushels of Turk's Island fait.
OA. 17. d.
n ' FOR SALE,
* Ap - elegant HOUSE, No. 78, Walnut
r street;
WHICH it as feet front, by ijt feet deep, with a
lot adjoining, ao i-a feet wide, by 72 feet 8 inches
-» deep, ( lhis lot is back of the houfc occupicd by
» George Willing, Esq.) The house is completely finifh
ed in every reipecl. It is JO feet deep, has two
large p .Hours, the tront one j 4 feet, the back one it
zz feet, by 18 j-a feet, a handsome drawing-room, ■
24 i-» feet by 24 feet. The rooms below, the draw
ing-toom and the chambers adjoining, have mahogany
doors, and these as well as the rooms above them have
a communication with each other. The height in the
firft and fecoud story is ia feet, and have ftoco cor
nices, and nine rooms up stairs, befidet the garrets
which are divided into three rooms, a good kiteten '
wash-house, milk and bathing-houses, » la r » e "j ce ! 1
house, a pump in the yard, and a 3 feet 3 inch alley,
that leads into Fourth-ilrtet, The cellars are laid with '
lime, and floered with two inch nlank, and plastered.
„ The yard 11 well paved, and the houfc it clear of
r ground-rent. All the rooms have bells in them, »nd
e the chamber bells ring in the garret, as well as in the
. entry down stairs. All the chambers have white tiles,
except the one next to the drawing riom, which ha.
as well as the drawing-room and the two parlours te
m,,rble chimney pieces. The drawing-room, the
*' IriT hT t W ' u lDd the entr V> are P*P cre d up to
the third story : In the room over the kitchen is an
openftove. Inthewafh room there i, an oven, and
. the back buildings, from the cellar, all the wav up, .
- have large closets, and in the eellar is a large bottle
rack, a win, store .. taken off of the cellar, and three
bins to hold bottled liquor are made in said room *
with padlock* to them ; fhc whole cellar and the e®ck
aftcred 28 an y roonr) in the house.
1 u lnev,r s' re Completely r.nira- .
1 f" I f g A V I*? m te " dj y 5 after the house 1
W °r br " k ,n w »lnot-ftreet, with
co " h h ° ure »- one them will hold two carri- •'
ages, the other one Thefmalleft stable ha, room for
' J. h,ee ' a " d l ' h l e 'argeft for four horses. It is i, tl f crt 1
front on Walnut-street by 50 feet, 3 inches deep. They -
°T thera - The builrimg I arche J
" win 1i k • 1 WB - intth plank, and the cellars
rtm , and Lr.i; ° o f f r;, :
h™" 1 'T""f
having been so contrived inthe building. It has a yard
48 feet 6 inches wide, by 24 feet deeps ha, a rain wa '
er pump, and other conveniences, and the cellar it laid
1 with two inch plank, and i, now rented , ! ' *
per month. This building is fubjecl to a ground ren Tf
George Meade,
Oa. 16. N °' ?8 ' Wa,nut Street.' v
j ' dx.
w anted
An APPRENTICE to the Prirting Buffnefe.
Erijuir: at this Office. 4 r
J
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH'STXEET,
J Has received by the late arrivals,
A lVtll Stltcled Assortment of
j Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods
Which he will fell, wholefile and retail, on the very
Inneft terms ;
Amotlgjl lubicb ftrt
Si.mo elegit 4-4 Ind 7-8 Chintzes and Cottony ir»
patterns
s Ditto Fnrnjture ditto
Ditto DjJhnity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet MuCin*
Ditto in Gold and Sjlyet
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantua* of the firil quality
' Silk ami Cotton Hoficry
tjmbrejlas of the firft quality, afiorted
t lrife Linens, very fine, ajirt Table Linens
MarfeHles and Cotton Counterpants
Rose Blankets aiTorted—&c. &e.
O&obtr 16. d
——*— . ■
Imported in the late arrivals from Eutope and the
Wefl-Uiies,
Holland Gin» in pipes
' Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique Molaffts, m hogfheadi
Choice old Liibon Wine, in prpas and jqnarter-cafks
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-eafks
Malmfev Madeira Wi"n«, in pipes and quarter-calks
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes
Rufiia St Flemish Sheeting and Ravens Duck, id cases
(. Window Glass, Bby 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in casks
Mill Slws and Croft-cut Saws, in bexea
>s Also, on handy
A few chests of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; Afiafcs
tida and Tapioca ; and a fevr bales of Colfaes,
, Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandannn and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a cemplete afiortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Bjulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers Ess 9 Co.
Prober ao dawm&tham
Country Rum,
And a few pipes of Vinegar,
For Sale by
Ezekiel Hall,
At the stores of Mr. Edwsrd Stow, iun. No. 4, Sooth
Watet-ftreet. October 10. d
,
A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS.
John Miller, jun. 8c Co.
Exclusive of their own Importation now opening,
liuve received by the William Penn, Caroline and Cull
CONSIGNMENTS, ' "
Which comprize a capital assortment to open a
Dry Goodi Store.
—Amoogft rfiem ar*-^
Common, fupir alid fuperfine Cloths, ,
. Pliin, twill'd and ftrip'd Costings,
, Baizes and Flannel*,
Point, rose and duffil Blankets,
Plain and pihtea Caffimerej,
Swtanfdowns,
• Printed Calicoes,
Scotch Threads,
" Hosiery.
They will be fold either in whole, «r in part, by th«
package, on terms which render them an abject worthy of
attention to purfchafers. dtf Q&. 11.
Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackare),
Excellent Halifax -Salmon in bbli.
47 bbla. prime Coffee, ,
Best Boston Beefy
Codfifh in bds.
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 ~. r
• Northern J °1 L '
Mould and dipt, tallow candle*, of a superior
i quality.
1 A few boxes excellent brown {bap,
< Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lifton Wine.
A few sacks of Feathers.
A few bales Isdia Mucins.
, FOR SALE Br
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Oflober n. <jx
Landing this day,
from on hoard the Brig Caroline, at Chefnttt-Jlreel
<u)harf,
FORTY PIPES
London proof Holland Gin.
For Sale by
Jofepb Antheny & Co.
October it-. , 6
To be Rented,
A Small and Convenient BRE IV ERT, at
Morris faille, oppofile Trentsn.
ALL the Apparatus for Brewing new and in goo !
repair: A number of Barrels and Half-Barrels wiH
also be rented. PofTefllon may be had at any time.
Enquire of Mr. Garrett Cottringer in Philadelphia,
or Mr. Robert Morris, jan. or Daniel Mun at Merris-
Ville.
October ao, 1796. mth&sgw
Loft Last Evening,
At Rkkrtts't Amphitheatre, {supposed t-be taken by
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about 18j dollars in banknotes; three note,
of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and *06, da
ted lath last August, payable 60 days after date, to the
order of Paul Siemen, together for 5150 dollars ; an ord«r
of Mrs. Ann IV'acpherfon, from Paul Siemen, on Lach
lm Mac Neal, Efq.at Port-au-Prince, for 100 dollars; be
fid«s several letters and papers of no life but to the proprie
tor. The notes of hand and order are without endorfc
ment. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to
any person who will diicover and fecute the thief p.,,1
FOR 1 Y DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
oned notes and papers at No. ti 9 , corner of Front and
Mulberry ur«ets. <1 Odl. 11i ' -
Fcr the Gazette of the-United States.
Wf. Ff.nno,
I 03SERVED fomefhameful mif-ftatem'ents of the
•.vriterin your Gazette under thefignatureof Phocion,
refpeftir ; the-conduil ofMr. Jefferfon \vhile gover
nor of Virginia in the year 1781, and having been
jjerfotlally prEsent, in dftuaFfervice, throHgh all the
scents of that year, from its commencement,
jiid before, until after the termination of the siege of
York, I can state what that conduit real ly was, with
more trurband certainty than eitber'Phbcion or his
friend Charles Simms, neither of whom appear to
lenow much about what they have written, and .vere'
certainly neither of ihciTi in "Virginia at t-heperiod
referred to. First then, it is not ;rue that " Mr- Jef
icrfon abandoned his trust at the mrmtnt of ittvafjon I*—Armold's1* —Ar-
mold's tni vAtir. r or»k plSce in'January,l7Bl, Mr Jef
ferfon remainid in his ftarion through the whole pe
riod of that inva'lion. Cornwallis's invasion took
v'ace in-May,T7Bf, and hecontimiert'toadvairceinto
•he country ua til the be gi nn ng of June, when he com
menced his retreat before rite Marquis-Fayette into
'he lower country, on the fea-bord,.the Marquis hav
-13 rakrn the onsroand about two months before.
Mr. Jefferfon did not religjjpt all, orabandou Mstta
tioh, he remained in j ofiice until after Cornwallis's
retreat, and until the time for which he was confti
' utionallv elected, had expired, to-'wit, the 12th of
June, 1781. -Before he left the office, however, Mr.
4 jefferfon demanded of the legislature, a full enquiry
into the conduct of the executive for the last twelve
months, which'was accordingly granted by the refo
tian of the 12th of June, 1761, and the 26th of No
vember following appointed for the enquiry, being a
period of near fix months allowed to bring forward
any charges or proofs again ft Mr. Jefferfon. On the
s6th of December, 1781, the aifembly proceeded to
Take up the enquiry at lafge, on the report of a com
mittee of their own bo'dy, and having firft voted that
no charge or aceufation whatever, appeared against
Mr. JefFerfon, and " that there never -was any cause for
the hut fame vague and groundltfs rumours, 1 " 1 they
unanimously paired the resolution of the rath De,
eember, 1781, already published in your gazette, Mr.
Fenno, and which if Phocion's candour will permit
him again to read, he will find not merely an ac
knowledgment of Mr. JefFerfon's ability and inte
grity, and altogether fi/ent on the want of firmnefs, but con
taining express lhanksfor " his attentive adr,ation
of the polurrs of the executive tukih- in oj/ice."
Secondly, Mr. Fenno, It is not true that Mr Tef
firfon at any time fied before a few light-horsemen
and fhamcfully abandoned his trust, or, as suggested'
fey Charles Simms,contributed by his conduit to the
loss and distress which accrued to the state in the de
ftruaion of the public records, and vohchersfor gene
ral expenditure—Letfafts speak. In a few days after
the arrival of Arnold's fI.H, the enemy proceeded
150 miles up James's river, and land-d his tr»ops
within 24 m les of Richmond, the night before his
march to that place. All the militia of the state
which could be armed being then out, under the'
command ofGeneial Nelfon,.about fixtv miles dif
tant, in the neighbourhood of Williamfburih and
no defence at hand for the seCurity ofßichmond, but
about 200 half-armed militia, under the commrnd
of Baron Steuben who could do nothing more than
cover the reraovrf! of the records and military stores
across James River, from Richmond to Manrhefter 1
and secure the boats and bat(eaus on the Manchester
fide to prevent the enemy's passing ; the writer of :
this remained 1a Richmond with the-laft detach
ment of militia that palled the river with re
cords and stores, "and until the enemy (about o
o clock in the morning) had entered the lower part 1
of the town, and began to fiank it with their light .
horse, he few-Mr. JefFerfon as active as man coSld
be, as well the night before, as that morning, Hie
ing his orders, ami using every exertion to remove '
the records ana stores. He afterwards saw him at 1
Weffhim,'five miles above Richmond, where Ar- 1
roid puflied a dctachment to destroy the stores at 1
that place, and which thro' Mr. Jefferfon's exertions •
were almost entirely saved. -The next day when 1
the enemy evacuated Richmond, the firft man the 1
writer of this saw, as he entered the town, was Mr t
JefFerfon. Let a candid public then determine whe
ther condnft lihe this, to which the writer hereof
was an eye-witness, manifested want 0 f firmnefs
or an abandonment'of trust. TV'lituatum of the' !
State was at that time peculiarly distressing the {
whole of its Continental quota of troops were then J
acting in Soul,h Carolina; manv thousand stand of t
arms had been fnppliedfor the defence of North Ca
roHna, and Arnold's invasion found the State al- '
most totally defencelefs. The state of things' was I
(little better in a fsw months afterwards whenCorr- f
wallis' invasion happened, and the Marquis Fayette 1
took the commard, since it is wellknown, that thro'
the whole Of that campaign, the Marquis thro' want 1
of arms never had more than three or four thousand 1
nnhtia badly armed, in aid of the few continental t
troops that were detached from the Northern army
to Virginia, such was the deplorable situation both '
of the State ano Continent, -for want of arms In 11
refpeft to Tarleton's sudden march to a
during that campaign, in order to Turprife the Go- t
vernor and A.Tembly, it will be remembered tJiat
the Marquis' army was inferior to Cornwall!.' and
had few or nb cavalry attached to it that at Char- *
lotfville there was not evena linglecompany of mi- a
litia, and that Tarleton made a rapid march of C
about 60 miles thro' the country at the head of about I 1
500 cavalry. The writer of this was alfb present i
at Charlottfville at the time, and saw Mr. Jefferfon V
and his Executive Council attending their dutv at' ! C
tHit place With theAflcmbly;]t will not be pretend ' 1
ed then, under the crcuutftanees stated, that Mr. c
A j J 1' a "dJhamefulty '
abandoned hr. truj}, as isfalfcly alFerted by Phocion
But, Mr. Fcnno, why do the enemies of Mr Fes- l~
■ f f r '°; n ' ca , v , il 3 ' h '' honourable acquittal alone by f(
tl)c Aflemfcly of V rgima, from grouudlefs and un- ti
founded charges } they well know that at the end of
that-very yexr, his brave and galUrrt successor in of- 0
£ce, General Nelson was fubjerted to publicaccufa w
tioa and impeachment before the Aflembly for sup- n
posed mifcondudl in office, and honorably acquitted ft
by ihe fame body, in the fame manner precifelv l
and with .an unanimous vote of thanks, as in the'
ease of Mr. Jefferfon. N» proof- appeared against
cither, the aecufation in each cafe was declared to «
and the honorable reputation of both il
stand or fall by the verdict of the fame body I
leave it with a candid public u> form their own re
fieftious. a(
l u r\jc u A stJ BSCRISER. o'
36th October, 1796.
"" it
Tor the Gaz«tte of the Unitfd States.
PHOCION—No. XI.
WE li ► seen that the firft advice given bv Mr 'H
Jefferfon to the people of Virginia, relative to the ' it,
ci/fiHitution, was not to adopt, but to try a-fecond no
convention ; his fulfequcnt advice was, to adopt or ! pa
not, on a tmtitifency, mat is, to adopt if nine gates de
had net p.ev.oufiy adopted, to reject, if that num. -»L
bcr of slates had previously adopted, in other words, St
to rJlque an ultimate di/mcmberrnent of the ftatea in i doi
- n experiment, to obtain the altetatioos which ht
deemedneceffary. On examination thit advice will
i.e found as pregnant with milchief to the United ing
wft absurd and whimsicaL
. the four hft deliberating Hates (particul.rly fZ
liacJ happened to be ftatei in geo-raphital the
contiguity, wLich was trerypoCble) had refufeti to'
ratify the cotilHtutioo, what might not liave been
the consequence ? Would the ajfinting dates have
tamely luffered themlelres to be ceerced into the a
''ie meHdmcnts, which the diffenttng states might have
'® n J di3a/ed? Could *ny thing but objections to the
een conliitution of the mod have'juilified
the the hazarding an eveathal schism in the union, in so
;nr , great a degiee as would have attended the advive
; °h given by Mr. Jefferfon ? Can it be denied thai the
his person who entertained these objeSions was llrong-,
to ly oppdfed to the confutation ?
ere' The opponents of the conliitution '-(or the anli
federalijh as they were called') acknowledged, like
r _ Mr. JefFerfon, the necessity and utility of union-,
ef- and generally fpea-ktni?, that the conltitution con
pe- tained many valuable Matures ; like him, they only
contended that it wa-ited ftittte eflential alteiations
to render it a fafeatid good government ; like him,
nto they only wanted a fecund convention, to alter the
iv- conftitutiori, fp as to temove alt the objtdh'ons iv+iich
had been made, by what they called the people, but
ls , s in truth, by a few faftiotis diforganizers or vifiopa
ti_ ry theorifti in the several Hates.
of If Mr. JefFerfon's advice was not danger 6at, it
? r - certaiuly was ridicultfus in the extreme. 'According
ve t 0 iat a d vlce » 'he queltion before a state conventi
o- OI ? would not have been on the merits or demerits
o- ol the constitution, but the only question would be,
I a in ivhat numerical trder theJldteJlood :if she wetc
'^ e ninth state, then it was ufl«aceflary'to discuss the
t0 merits of the instrument •; it mull be adopted
n_ evtnts ; but if she happened to be the tenth, it must
at then be rejected at all events, without any difcufTi
kr * n ' wou ' l ' ave heeß ftmply neccffary to hare
ascertained, haw many flateis had adopted, which
being known, the adoption or rejeSionfollowed
[r. of course ; and tho' in other cases, it flioald seem
that the more states had adopted a measure, the
stronger would be the recommendation, as an evi
dence as the approbation of the people, yet in this
on cafe, the ingenious Jefferfon reversed the rule, and
the more Aates had adopted, the less credit ought it }
j- to have with the temainder. ]
, d ' But when this very sage advice was given, it hap
ie pened never to occur to its author, that two con- '
-~ veutions might be in session at the fame time, and '
that either of them, by its adoption, would make '
C d ! hc " •' what was to be done is this dilemma ? ,
>s I" s sdvice was proper for Virginia, it was proper <
is ior all the other llates, how would they fettle the t
e, etiquette, which was to adopt without amendments, c
5 and which was to reject, to obtain them ?it would
d haveiequired conferences and negotiations, in which e
it not a fyliable would have been said, refpe&ing the '
d merits ot the constitution, but the whole discussion a
would have turned on, which ought to adopt, to j,
: y complete the Hiagical number, nine. r
t I' the contest had occurred between a large and c
>f a small state, Virginia and Delaware, for inffance, ?
the dispute indeed might easily have been fettled : 1
Virginia would lay, do you adopt, and we'll drive |!
t them into amendmentsi little Delaware would not p
t contend with the antient dominion : But a serious a
a difficulty would have arisen, had the contest beea a
e' between Virginia and Pennsylvania, and both were n
t determined to adopt or rejedl: if noeompaH could
have been concluded between them, I cannot fe< *
t how Mr. Jeffei son's scheme could hare operated: 1
if both refufed to adopt, there would not have been c
e the magic number ;if both determined to adopt, b
. then ten states would have adopted, and no amend- n
- menu obtained. p
And all this, thought Mr. JefFerfon, might be 0
e ' aecompltfhed with ease, and without schism ! Sup
e fokj-he four largefl flatei, Virginia, Pennfylvanii, 1
|i Maffachufet .s and New-York, had rejeßed the con- A
- TT,' ■ u P on all the amendments t)
- "'"■ c" 'heir several conventions required :is it 'pro- g
s bable that the other nine states would, without a T
- struggle, have i elinquifhed their opinions, and been (l
, brow beat-into a firing of amendments, which they, f
t m accepting the eonftitution, had deemed frivolous, a '
1 unnecessary or dangerous ?or on the other hand, n
had the four small slates withheld their consent, ci
t I . H . or , d " l to coerce the nine others into amendments,
i 11 tlTe latter would have been swayed, by
j any apprehensions, to after a constitution, on which ft
- they had retted their hopes of future happinels > "
1 "vewing the sentiments of Mr. JefFerfon, Z
tefpedfing- the constitution, we are compelled to h;
alcribe the contradiiSions and absurdities they dif
f | cover, to a natural UNlleadinefs of principle, on V
t i th , c . '" b J ea of govc/nment, and t« a disposition,
, i whlch '« v< r y manifeft, to p i ea f c both parties un- ,
1 ItT i- • 3 time ' which wook} P'eponderate. ?!
■ i likefome w — <*** f r
; <r.o.ed by hath f'dts. At the firft appearance of ni
| the constitution, he had very serious objeflicns to it th
" J"*". * ccmm,ndci another convention—when he
' ,° U . ' at Ji I,ke 'y to bc adopted, his obiec- ' h (
r and l>e advised the M
w'L f a,<S ~ Wht "u h " f ° Und that tbe constitution
. was a favonte with the people, then his objeelions
nearty vanished, and he was content that Conrrefs*
ftosld recommend amendments where they (hould an
L°rJ,l C l y, a e JifreC "" d an ° th ' r mention, p"
If as the latter ltage of the business he found it V,
expedient to acejuiefce in the will of the mai i, v
" rem . a '"«'o enquire, whether he has, since the
operation of the federal government, continued his
acquiescence, or whetKer, finding in this cojntrv i
on his return from France, a Dartv „„p C ' l
that government and to the constitution, from which ' nl
»t emanated, his former enmity has not Kr l
again, ,ad difpl.yed itfclt in hostile acts, coT t
fpicuous to have escaped notice and censure
lo prove that Mr. Jefferfon has been for manv
years » determined opponent of the federal confti
. [ tution and of the measures which have flowed from
t it, under the admmiftration of Washington I will W °
I | now proceed to shew that he was the i!jj,l or
r patron of the National Gazette, publiflied in Phil" ,
! v','] and " ndenc y of wfiieh were ,; P ,°'
.; Wifir and deprecate of the United 1
States, to mt/reprefent and traduce the fl A,' •/;
it (excerinthefi ßg f m
and
have them now, I hive so much confidence iiTmv DOt am,
trymen, as to be fatisfied that we (hall have 7.Z fen
loon as the deeeneracv nf OUP - 5 them, as lcn
them necefTary." ' government Dull render 1
to he was the head) implicating in the moll virulent
•en- ceiifure t{lermajority of both huufisof tongrejs, the
ive heads both of the tieafury and war departments,
a- and (paring not the chief ntagiftrate himfelf;
ive that in the support of this paper, thus hoflile to the
he .government,-in the administration of which he held
iecl so important a trust, he did not ferqple to apply the
'so' money of that very government; departing by this
ive conduct from the rules qf ofii ial propriety and ob
he ligation, and from the duty of a discreet and patri
ig. otic citizen.
This charge i« fapported in' several ways.
li- I ft. By .diredf proof of an e^/a/connexion be
ri;< tween \hc. secretary of Jlate and the editor of the
in-, National Goaette—a little antecedent to thef r/i ejla
n- blifhment of that paper.
ily 2d. By direst proof, as we have seen, of the
ns secretary's being opposed to the .present govern
m, ment of the United States, while it was under the j
he confederation of the people.
eh 3-d. By his avowed opposition to the principal '
ut nteafures which have been adopted in the course of 1
a- its administration, particularly those relating to the '
finances. 1
it As to the conueSion betweea the secretary of Jlate and 1
,g the editor of the National Gazette, neither of the, sol- a
j lo»/ing faifls can or will be disputed. <
I ft- That the editor of the National Gazette was a j a
clerk in the department of Jlate for foreign languages, i a
e > and as such, received a Jalary oftiuo hundred undfjty ,
lc dollars a year.
Ie id. That he, became so antecedently to the eftabJifh- j C
ill ment of his Gazette, having adtually received j n
ft ry from the 17th August, 1791, and not havingpub- j v
j. lifned the firfl number of his paper till the 31ft Oaober I n
following. I tj
3d. That at the time he became so, there was ano-I si
" ther character, a clerk in the lame department, -who 0
d underflood the French language ; asd that the editor of j
n the National Gazette was a tranjlator oj that language
e only. I.tl
4th. That the appointment was not made under any a '
s _$«*W,provi(ion, marking out a particular clerk, Tup of I «
, the kind, its duties, or its emoluments ; but under a tl
general authority to, -appoint clerks, and allow them fa- e
' la nes, Bot exceeding the average of five hundred dol- ; r
lars eaeh. |
jth. '4'hat the editor of the National Gazette, imme- °'
, diately preceding the eftabliflunent of'that-paper, Was P'
the fuperintendant or condu&or of a paper belonging j in
e to Childs and Swaine, printed at New-York. m
? These are theJaHs : the conclujon is irrejfjiahle : the ar
• Jecret intentions of men being in the repositories of their m
r own breasts, it rarely happens, and is therefore not to
t be expe&ed, that -4iredt and pefitive proof of them
, can be adduced. Iy«
j Preemptive fatfs and e&cumftances biuft afford the P r
evidence, and when these are Efficiently ftrone, they «
ought to decide. j [j.
We find the head if a department taking the editor Lur
of a Gazette into his-employment, as a clerk, with a co
» Jtated Jalary, not for any Jpecial purpose, which could
not have bftn accomplilhed otherwise; for besides bis I
own competency to translate from the French, and his ?
( general pradhce, he tad, at the time, in his depart
. ment, a clerk, who was eapabk of performing the
. ycry Jervice required, and cofild, without difficulty,
; have procured others Gmilarly qualified: nor, from any
• particular necessity arising from a too limited allow
-1 ance, or any other cause ; for he had it in his power to
1 allow an adequate compensation to a character who r
t might have been regularly attached to the department.
I Ihe very txtjknce of Jucb a conn,a.»n, then, is alone '
• f h " „' ent foßndatlon f° r believing, that the delign of
the arrangement wa> to fecurc an t,ij!u c ncc over Tfie pa- |
per, the editor of which Was so employed. But the ear
' circumstances which attend it, explain the nature of it 95
, beyond a doubt. That which has been just mentioned, die
namely, there having been firevioujly a ilerk in the de- on
partment, qualified to render the Jenvice, is a weighty me
: ° nc - Tlre com '"S oj « new printer from another state,
to institute a: ncw paper-his having been appointed a
c erk in the department prior to his removal to this city I
faKW"? COm P eßfated be f° r < was even prl | p
lent to fetisfy the appearance of rendering service —
. theft circumstances give a point and cnerpy to the lan-
tra " /aah "' w hich render it unequivocal.
. ' Perhaps, never was a more JlimJy co-v.-riu? for
th epenjomng of a printer. Some ojlenjible for '
fZ'ed Th th 'P u bltc money, was necessary to be con
ss 1
ot w .
The medium of negotiation between his friend, the J
secretary oj J?«te, and Mr. Freneau, in order to the in- 1
iTXffed whVh 9r f " wc ". know »' documents J
are pouelled which afcertam the perfo* • but Vld
withheld, from parricular considerations. Theft are J
the more readily y,elded to, because the fafls which BIC
an il A " t R ° N t^3e National Gazette. I
ord d r and c
rt, 111 Un . ne ce fl ary to add what is equally well known A
""•JSSSS"* «"»»»«> »r«ni A
piti.™ of P.nr,r,l„„i. bc
«.»« b, ,ht tic,,™,.,® Club „ r C t '
was laid in the publications of that club. Mar
Previous to it, breaking out—the agent, oft Vat Mar
club dominated thrs'the interior country thtir '° r <
inflammatory addresses. y new
They stuck them up on trees—feattered ther, f ° r 1
'
and other conveyance,. Lies and flanders Torn! "
e SAME AGENTS OF MISCH lev o
of the Federal Government. 1 ' thcfc Ca Pl
Ler us remember that tKc - \V
some persons, have „ ° f these be
and many lives. >C m 'lhon of dollats, I (h
'.ufi s'? rr k " bi »- ••> -w 1
r™. 05 b r ,1, of o ,t"j u h b "™ b «" .be,
.h^ lt r Wml ,iek « ««»»2S
ibc Democratic Ciub. 0 f L<
■ulent FOR THE G AZETTE OF THE UNITED st*
/.the — tuST ATES.
Lents, Mr. Fenn«,
rfclf;' Th, re.jre.nent of George Washington from DU U
o the 11 5. 11fe vvlll lead t0 a crifisof a magnitude f 0 i ,
: held demand the feriou. attention of"
>lytbe fr,end 10 h " country : for on his fuccefTor wi n T
r this ■.«"« ™ afure depend the future peace aod T*
d ob- P"!f f ' of America, if i n s e as ons 0 f f°j V
patri- q t y' the dutles of the important office of P T
P dent of the United States call f er m „ ch ! l
how much more neccffary will it be t 0 fiv '
„ be- raan ° f virtu*, and firmnefa at this
f the P f »°d, When Europe i, ravaged with the fW "
>eja- war > a " d "hen the peculiar features that mark, t ji
conouft of parties leaves not a doubt of tlu- •
• the . V ° rS Wb ,' ch a hav<: bee " by intereiling ,h e °S"
?ern . 'ngs and inflaming the rcicntmeut our an "'
the to l»duce a conduct on our part which aiuft
y ' cad us ln, ° a war > ruir.ous in the extreme v
cipal th " a, ' e " dc p d with or defeat. lt ; 5 ' u ' ot £
fe of " ,(h ' Pume \» to-enter ,nto a companion of
0 (he the merits of .ndmdu.l candidate, ; events are!
very day anfing of an important nature and J>i t
. and may between the day allotted for chufing EletW,
Jol- and their meeting, have a great a»d leading infll'
ence on their deliberation, ; i only wifli to call
' as a •"ent.on of my fellow citizens to the importance of
««, a right choice of Eieftors, and the necessity 0 £
fiJ'J their giving thejr rote, on this occasion. Th«
Jifh- COM Kk th ;r°. parlic ' in Con « rcfß becj
f . marfced by a diftina.o* too strong to ifcape obfer
pub- vatlf >"' One of them has umfoimly opposed the
ober mealures of the present Executive Government—
the other has with equal firmnefs.and more f ucceh
ano- supported those meaiures. If the oppofi.ie,, of
"of one I,ad bcen f "«efsfull, it, effea«mu(t be left to
mgt "Bjeaurc ; but the beneficial effeds resulting from
.the mcafurea adopted by the Executive, a,e felt br
*ny aIL .{5 theicfo 'e reft, with u, to determine whether
pof we will chufe for Eledar,, men who are fenfibkof
% 3 f e n r'" gs wc en j°y' and who the choice
> a- er i resident fix oq a man who accords with them
aoi ' in fent.ment, and who, following the path pointed
me- illuftriou* President, will consider the '
was P re ' erT *tion cf rhe peac« of our country as his molt
■ing important duty, and our greatest blefling—Or on
men whofeconduft has been uniformly marked by
the ai) opposition to the meafureiof oirr pretpnt govern
ment, and who will naturally chufe for President,
em 3 P erfoß °f opinion with themfeUes. In a woid,
you aie to djfermine whether, fatisfied with the*
the P re f fnt Situation of your country, you wi(h the go
key vernment to purfuethejr present line of condud; or
by a charge hazard the confeqiiences of a fyflem of
'tor untried politics, which may be the iuin ofyoo#
uld countr y» ' >ut w hicb cannot increase it, prosperity.
bis A. Z. ,
hi* "" ——————a
the Philadelphia,
ty, —
ny SATURDAY EVENING, OCTOBER i 9; ij 9 i.
ho t F /'i ay ' the ljft inftant ' w »"ti Minto,
U ; Fro ' e " or °f Mathematics and Natural Philof*-
ne »n the College of Princeton, New-Jcrfcy.
of — 11
55=" " "VTLlltve-iLiLliidk iuiupk.iem«f »(! the Ameti
he can prisoners lately redeemed from Slavery at Aleieri V /
it 95 in number; including alfb the names of those wiio
;d, died at Algiers after the conclulion of the treaty, mi I
le- on the paflage to Marseilles. This interefling docu- '
ity meat will be published in Monday's Gazette,
te,
1 a ELECTION RETURNS.
"y ' _
Counties of Washington, Allegheny, Wcftraorelaad,
a*d Fayette.
/ Walhington and Allegheyy diftrift.
Jr ' Governor—Thomas Mifflin. <
Congress—Albert Gallatin, t\n
n . John Woods, 10)<f
e( j Thomas Stokeley, 486
an Senator—John Hamilton, JO4l
Thomas Morettfh, 1353
' Washington eeunty elefls four reprefentitives, to the
he Aflembly. The numbers for the refpetlivc candi
dates were as follow :
tJ David Achcfon, 18.19; W. Wallace, 177 a; Da
re vid Johnson, ( 16x1; Wm. Hoge, 1413.
re John Hcaton, 963; John Hoge, 864; James Brice,
, 810; William M'FarJand, 633; Samuel Hyde, 435 t
n T. Sedgwick 400.
n ' Sheriff—Thomas Hamilton, 958
( ' R Jonathan Lee', 95*
CommiflioneM—John Cotton, Robert Kl'Cready.
re Allegheny County.
le Assembly—Samuel Ewalt, John Lucas,
id Commissioner—Nathaniel Irilh.
r _ Weftmoreland and Fayette diflriifl.
n Congress—William Findley.
Weftmoreland County. '
Allembly—George Smith, Benjamin Lodge, Mi
\ chael Ruch. .
J Commissioner Dickey.
Fayette County.
Assembly—John Smille, John Cunningham.
The Conneflieut Courann of Oil. «4, fays»
We hear from New Haven, that the Hon. Uriafc
Tracy, Esq. is elcdled a Senator in jhe Congress of
d the Uni'ed States, in the room of the Hon. Jonathin
Trumbull, Esq. resigned; and that the Hon. Jame»
n Hillhoufe, Esq. is e edled a Senator to serve after
March next, his appointment in May lait expiring ia
t March. We also hear, that all the okl representative*
lor Congress are re-eledled, and that Mr. Dana is the
r new member.—Mr. Davenport is chosen representative
lor the next fix months, in the room of Mr. Hillhoufe*
. By the Diana, captain Potts, a geutltman re
ceived the London Mornin® Chronicle, of
the 19th September—from which the following
t article, are taken.—
LONDON, September 19.
From the London Gazette, September 17<
Admiralty-Office, Sept. I3> 1 79^-.
1 Copy of a letter from commodore fir John Borlafe
Warren, K. B. te Evan Nepean, 'esq. dated on
' board his majefty 1 , ihip La Pomone, Falmouth,
(he io'h instant.'
SJK, v* _ . ; I
I requett you will inform their lordfliipl, that ot»
the 22d of August, at ten A. M. a fail was disco»
vered in the s. s. w. quarter. 1 immediately oii
patched the Galatea after her, who made the fig n3 '
of her being an enemy's frigate. I therefore sal-lowed with the reft of the fhipi, sni soon abfefved
thatjhe was Handing in and near the mouth of the
Garonne. Captain Keati, however, with much
address, cut her off from the enuance, having pass
ed, with the Galatea, between the Chevrier bank
and the light house : the enemy then wore (hip, and
stood along (hore to the fonthward, being ptirfued
by "all the squadron, and keeping within half gun
ftiot of the coast. The Artois and Sylph, which
had been detached to examint two large (hipa that
appeared suspicious, continued their course in the
offing, when, about 9P. M. the horizo. became
4ark, attended with violent squalls of extreme heavy
rain, lightning and thunder, so as tr> oblige the
Galatea, and this (hip, who were nearly within
(hot of the frigate, to (horten fail, and keep away
at timet, and it was supposed (he had bore up, as
wc lolt light of her.
1 therefore stood with the Anfon so the north
ward, thinking (he might have hauled her wind that
way ; but at day light, feeing nothing of her, tack
cd, and continued our course to the southward, un
til we discovered her run on shore, with the loss of
hei mails, within five leagues of Arcaffun, and the
Artoil, Galatea and Sylph (who had seen her again 1
(luring the night) at anchor near her, when (he was
boarded with much ri(k and gallantry, by the boSts 1
of the Aitois and Galatea, under the command of <
lieutenants Lloyd and Carter.
It was impoflible to prevent the men from endea- (
vouiing to escape on (hore, although great numbers 1
fell victims in the attempt, owing to the great furf i
and fwfcllthat set upon the beach, and of cout/e ma
ny were drowned.
Her captain, and some of the principal officers,
with several Portuguese prisoners, part of the crews '
of two Brazil (hips, taketi by the division to which 1
this (hip (which was named l'Androraaque, a Very '
fine and large frigate, pierced for 48 guns, twelve '
pounders, moll of which had been thrown over- '
board, and her compliment 300 men) belonged,
were brought on board the (hips of this squadron, 1
when she was set on fire by our people, and complete- '
ly consumed before they left her.
The officers and boats crews of the above meati
oned (hips, behaved with the utmost a&ivity upon
this occasion.
I have (Subjoined a lift of veflels captured it burnt
by the squadron under my command, as well as the
division of the enemy's frigates.
I have the honour to remain, &c. See. See.
(oigned) JOHN BORLASE WARREN.
A Lilt ot Veffcls burnt and captured by hii Majesty's Squad- I
rou, under the command of Commodore Sir John Bo 1- ■
laic Warien, Bart, K- B. See. between the 9th of August,
and loth September, 1796
L'Andvomachc frigate, 44 gum, 1* pounders but pierced '
for 48 guns, and 300 men, burnt near Arcaffon.
La Jean Porte, Gaburre, of 140 tont burthen, bnmt at the
mouth of the Gaionne.
La Jean de Blaigna!, Gaberre, of 140 tons, burnt at the
mouth of the Garonne. 1
La Liberte, Chaffe Maree, of 95 torn, burnt at the mouth of '
the Gaionne. <
La Catherine, Chaffe Maree, of 80 torn, burntat the mouth (
ot the Garonne.
La Marie Ann, Chaffe Maree, of 95 torn, burnt at the mouth
of ihe Garoiuie.
LeSt Pierre, Chaffe Maree, of 90 tana, bOrnt'at the mouth
of the Garonne.
Le Charlotte, Chaffe Maree, of 80 tons, loaded with wine
and brandy,captured. •
Le Vcrortique, ChaffeMine, of ly; tt7T73, loade.i wirfiwine '
and brandy, captured
Sloop, loaded with canvas, taken by the Argus lugger, and
Dolly Cutter, on their rctnra fiom Falmouth, to join the
squadron.
JOHN WARREN.
La Pomone, Falmouth, September 10, 1796.
* A Lift ot the Divifionot French (hips on a cruize, to which
l'Andromaque, burnt by th« squadron under the command
of Sir J. Borlale Warren, Bait, and K. B. belonged.
L'Adromache. —On the main deck 28 guns, twelve pouad
ers ; quartci-dcck and tore-castle 20guns; total 48, burnt
on the 93d of August, 179b, near Arcaf&n. (
La Nrfeot. —On the main deck, >8 guns, twelve pounders ; |
quarter-deck and fore-caikle 16 guns, total 44, cruising.
L» Decade.—On the main deck 26 guns, twelve pounders; 1
quarter-deck aiid forc-caftie 16 guns; total 41, cruiGng.
La t&ayonneufe. On the main deck, 22 guns, 12 pounders;
quartei-d<ck and tore-castle 6guns; total 28,cruifing.
(Signed) JOHN WAIIR.EN.
Lvan Nepean, Efq
admiialty Office, Seotember 13.
Copy ot a Letter trom E. B. Aruaud, Esq. Collector of the 1
Customs at Portsmouth, to Evan Nepean, Esq. dated Sep- |
tcmber 12, 1796:
I have the houor to acquaint you, that the Antelope cut. '
ter, Captain Cale, in the lervice ol the Cultoms at this port, t
has brought in a French lugger privateer carrying so men
and v»eil atnicd, which ihe captured yelterday between Port,
laud and St. Alban's.
Copy of a Letter from Mr. Cox, his Majesty's Naval Officer
at Harwich, to Evan Nepean, Esq. dated September 14, ]
1796. j
Last r.ight was brought in here by the Argus revenue cut- ,
ter of this port, a (mall privateer, about twenty tons bur
then, name Sally, of Ill.keney, on the stern, last from Dun- '
kirk; the whole crew, confiding of eighteen men and boys, t
arc now lodged in our gaol. The have it frems, taken seve
ral vessels by concealing all her people except two men and a
■ boy, and- having a trawling net and diedee on board, appear 1
like tiftiermen.
Admiralty Office, September 1/? 1796. c
J.xtiaft of a Letter from Vice-Admiral Sir Hyde Parker, to
1 Evan Nepean. fcfq. dated on board his Majelty's Ship £
Queen, at sea, August 21, 1796. a
Captain Brown has just reported to me thecaptuteof La
Sochellaife Schooner Privateer, of 8 guns and 40 men, com- 1
snauded by Giffard, from Rochelle.
Admiralty Office, September Ig, 1706.
Copy of a Letter fiom Admiral Peyton, Commander in "
Chief ol his Majefty'sShips in the Downs, to Evan Nepean 0
Esq. dated Sep ember 14, 1796 , '
By a letter i have this day received from Mr. v
Nich. Sitamonds, matter .of the Lion armed cut- r
ter, he acquaints me, that at fix o'clock on the t
' ' morning ot the 12th inlla'nt, Beachy head bearing
N. by W*diftance about three leagues, he descried
a trench cutter piivaieer within him, and immcdi- ii
ately gave chace ; 'the privateer finding that Lion
was determined- to keep without him, at seven t
, o'clock bore down, and.after exchanging several
jhot, (Iruck to the Lion, and proved to be the Tu,
rot, four days from Havre-de-Grace, commanded
by Bernard Emanuel Turat, having four four-poun
ders and fix f%ivels, a number of fmali-arms, and
twenty five men. She had taken nothing during
the cruise.
Admiralty office, Sept. 16, 1796.
Copy of a letter from captain Poyntz, commander
of his majesty's sloop Childers, to Evan Nepean,
Esq. dated at fta, off Cape-Barflcur, Septem
ber 14, '1797.
1 beg leave to represent to you', for the infor.
mation of my lords commissioners of the admiralty,
that beirj this morning off Capc-Barfleur, I fell o
iu and captuied the French privateer, Le Bon n
J Sfpetanee, from Cherbourg, of 2 swivels and 2$
5 men, out three days, had captured the sloop Mary
i Ann, of Qtieenborough, from Plymouth ; which
sloop, from the account of the prisoners, I hope
c to fall in with. The privateer I have sent to Ports-
J mouth, under the charge of the Trial cutter, who
j I fell in with, bound to England, the fame day.
Childers, at sea, September 14,
! , ten o'clock, P. M.
t Sir,
: In addition to my letter of this morning I have I
: the fatisfadlion to inform you, for their lordships' 1
r information, that this evening I fell in with and '
r recaptured the sloop Mary Ann, of Qtieenborough, 1
1 which was captured on Monday evening by the
r French privateer Bon Efperance, and, which I cap- '
j tured this morning. The above vcffel is laden with
naval j»nd loidnancc (lores, from Plymouth, bound
to Woolwich and London. The Trial cutter be
ing not yet but of fight, 1 (hall direst her com»
. mander to take charge of her to Portsmouth.
(Signed) S. POYNTZ.
F LONDON, September 19.
: Mr. S. Brookes who went to the continent with
1 Mr. Hammond is arrived from Vienna.
Some dispatches were received on Saturday at *!
1 Mr. Dundas's office in farliament-ftreet, from an
F officer at the Austrian head quarters : Col. Crau
ford, who was the usual aorrefpondent of the war
fecretary, has met the chance of war, having been
i killed in one of the late battles between the Auftrt
[ an and French armies. I
PARIS, 28 Fruftidor, Sept. 14. j
Diouetis dated by his friends to have been kil- 1
, led in the aftton, and interred without any mark of (
1 diftin£lion, as a private soldier. A pretty trick
this : Drouet is very well, and Couchon, who \
. knows it, will, we trust, now and then think on
him. t
( Bertrand, mayor of Lyons, and one of the ex
t ecutioners of that unfortunate town, and RigoU, 1
. are amongst the arretted conspirators.
HAMBURGH, September 7. 1
j On the 4th in (I. Mr. Hammond, the British ,
Envoy to the Court of Berlin, arrived here on his 1
t way back to England. \
From the Brujfils Papers.
VIENNA, August 29.
The report which prevailed some time ago, that
. a Ruffian army of seventy thousand men was to take
■ part in the present war, has gained farther credit. ,
» A column of those troops is iaid to have already ]
I entered Galicia.
HESSE DARMSTADT, Sept. 5. |
In the combat near Amberg, the English Colo
nel Craufurd loft his life ; he arrived, charged with
■ a milfipn to the Aultrian army, at the moment
while it was ewgnged with the French. The French
1 General Ney was also killed on the spot.
BY THIS DAY's "MAILS.
CHARLESTON, October 13.
__ __XhejfiJWwing it all that we have been able to ob
tain of the state of the poll yellerday evening : 1
Reprefintative t» Cwgrcfs.
William Smith
R. Simoiia *
Senator to the legijlature of this Jiate.
David Ramsay jgj
Loft vote* 19 I
On Monday last was executed pursuant to his ]
sentence, IVill, a negro fellow, the property of
; Mr. Pyeat, sot setting fire to, & burning the house ,
of his mailer, seven mile from this city.
NEW-YORK, o£lober 27. j
BT THE LATH -ARRIVALS.
ST. ANDERO (Spain) Aug. 26.
Yesterday at nine o'clock in the evening the mi
litary commanders and civil authorities of this har- ,
bour, received ordcisfrom the king of Spain to
seize all the (hips and effeftg belonging to the Bri- \
ti(h nation ■/ ( RedaSeur 10.)
PARIS, Sept. 14. .
The domiciliary visits commenced this morning.
National guards are placed at the entrance of each
tlreet, whose business it is to infpedt the tickets.—
This answers no other purpofc than to confine those
to their houses who do not conform themfclves to
the regulations.
The gariifon from Meaux arrived yesterday to
replace or compleat the camp at Grenelle.
Within these few days, several of the members
of the revolutionary committees have blown out
their brains. Justice is anticipated—\hey saw that
all the world eonfpited against them.
Admiral Rfehery, who failed from Cadiz early in
August, and of whose destination so many vague
conjeaures were formed, arrived at Bred about the
middle of last month, with his fleet and four Spa
nifli (hips, that had accompanied him from Cadiz.
General Ney, .whose name is so often mentioned
with applause in the details of Jourdan's army, du
ring this campaign, was among the /lain in one of
the late battles.
TOULON, Fru£iider 15, Sept. t.
The following is a statement of the naval forces
in this harbour, extraded from the Moniteur.
IN THE ROAD.
Naraeiof (hips of the line. Guns
. . .
aL.e lonnant, ... 00
Le Formidable, . - go
Le Tyrannicide, . . - 74
Le Gemmappe, . . . . _
Le Mont Blanc, - n .
L'Aquilon, . . . '.
Le Mercure, ... n i c
Le Genereux, - . . _ .
L'Heureux, . . . a
Le Timoleon, ... 74 ■ 1
Le Jean Jacques Rousseau, . * ,
IN THE HARBOR. 4 f
Four ftiipi of the line, three of which are old
ones, and the superb William Tell, of 00 cutis
now on the ft«cks. (
According to the n>o(i recent letters from ttaly,
general Wurmfcr retreated almo£t close to Botzen.
The principal motive of this retraat is, that Tyrol
is a country full of plains, from the fronjjjjrs of I
taly as far as Botzen, below which the mountains
rife as far as Infpiucfc ; on the right and left there
are high mountains, which may be considered a.i
the ramparts of the capital of thai country. I
An Auflrian Bulletin of the 18th ult. dates, 1
that to fecftre entirely the rear of Wurmfer's army
from the fide of Germany, the archduke Chailes
has gives orders to the corps commanded hy gene
ral Frolich to march towards Tyre), which hasac- 1
tually been donei c
ARMY Of ITALY. c
Summary leturn of the subaltern officers and pri- 1
fates of the enemy made prisoners of war by the
French army, fincc the I ith Thermidor (July t
29) fourth year.
Epochs. Places. Num. of men.
16th Thermidor, Aug. 3, at Lonado, 4200 c
17th & 18th do. do. 4th afid sth, S
at Caftiglione,
19th do. do. 6th, at Borghetto, 900 1
Do. do. at Pefchiera, 850 I
•16th, 17th, 18th, and Z2d do. 3d, 4th, 4
and 19th of Aug. at Salo, Stor, and
Reque d'Anfonce, 274°
Total 13.457
At Salo and Lonado, about four hundred Hu- /
lan's horses, and eighty two pieces of the enemy's
artillery were taken and brought to the French
park ; several pieces of ordnance dill remaining
fubm'erged in the fofles are not comprized the
statement. n
Two hundred and ten caissons or ammunition a
waggons. j
Six stand of colours sent to the executive direc
lory on the 21 (I Thermidor, Aug 8.
The enemy's loss in killed and wounded is efli- -
mated at about 7 or 8000 met).
The number ef defeiters in Piedmont, and the
territoriA of Venice and Genoa, Amounts to leve- (
ral thousands > such was the fate of nearly the whole
of the column drawn from the Austrian army of
the Rhine, thirty battalions ftrorig, the flower of
the Aufttian troops dettined to re-conquer Italy.
Attefled by the general of division, chief of
the ftaff of the army of Italy.
(Signed ALEX : BERTHIER.
PARIS, September 7.'
Th« Austrian general Wurnifer, who has confi
derable poflcfiioH# in AI face, has been put on the
lift of emigrants from the department of the lower r
Rhine. He protetted against this proieedirfg, but c
the administration of the department has contirm- '
ed his profcriptipn.
September 8. a
A private letter from Rome mentions that the
Belvidere Apollo is carefully packed up, and on 1
the psint of being sent off to Paris By what '
reut is it to reach this eapital ? If by land, it mud
of necessity be dashed to pieces 011 its pa Tag e over 1
the Alps, and we (hall be under the imputation of
having defiroyed a chef d'eeuvre in the rtatuary art; 1
if by sea, it runs th« hazard of being taken by the J
English, who will Save the benefit of it, while the
obloquy will attach Upon us.
LONDON, September 17.
Yesterday we received by express the Paris jour- '
nalsto the 15th and tliofe of BruiTels '.o the 12th.
By an article inserted in the latter, we are led to
bclicye that Jourdari intended to assemble all hit dif
ferent corps at Frankfort, when it is probable his <
head-quatters are arrived by this time. Some of
the letters pretend that Jourdan's retreat is only a 1
llratagem, calculated to draw the archduke-jnto a a
more fatal snare than that into which he fell by i
Jourdan's retreat across the Rhine at Coblentz, in i
the beginning of the campaign. But we do not c .
concur in this opinion. Jourdan's letters plainly '
shew that he has fuftaitrtd several severe defeats
We jdo not think it improbable that either the arch
duke will cut off Moreau's retreat, or Moreau will
cut off the archduke's. Moreau's army now be- "
comes much more an object of intereil than that of '
Jourdan. Fiom the banks of the Nab to Ramelf
berg, the distance which Jourdan has retreated
since the archduke crossed the Danube at Ingol
ftadt, is full Ijo miles.
THE PANTHEON, I
j
And. Ricxetts's Amphitheatre,
For Equestrian and Stage performances, Corner ot
Chefnut and Sixth-street*.
Y THIS EVENING, Saturday, o<sh 29,
Will be prelented,
A variety of pleafingEntertainments,
EQUESTRIAN EXERCISES,
And Stage Per.orn^ances s
To \rhich will be added,
The Splendid Pantomime of
DON JUAN;
Or, The LIBERTINE DESTROYED.
Under the direction of Mr. Sully. 1
Don Juan, Mr. Sully. 1
Commandant, Mr. Tempkins.
Lover, j/j r Dining, I
Fifhernjan, Mr.Coffie.
Sailor, , Mr. F. Rickatts.
And Scaramouch, v Mr. Spinacut*.
- ift Fi/herwoman, Mrs. Durang,
id ditto. Miss R.binfon. 0
And Donna A»na, Mrs. Spinacuta.
An accurate defcriptioji of the Pantomime to b* had at V
she ticket-office. t
cr Days of Performance to be Monday, Wednes
day, Thursday and Saturday.
, * The Ladies and Gentlemen who ferure feats in
the day time, are requelted to attend punctually at 7, 0
as the performances are so arranged as to conclude by '■
10 o clock—the doors will open at 6.
£3° Silver I ickots, to admit for the season, to be had
by applying to Mr. H kketts at the Pantheon, or at Oel
left's Hotel.
•£5 Box, 7s. 6d.—Pit, 3s. c^.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Ford, at the ticket office to E
from ten to three o'clock each day.
1 s - ' * §.
m 111 111 II KaßOßiaa«u:MA*jg^a^^fr
QAZETT& OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LUT.
PHILADELPHIA, Oftobcr 2gr.
>. ;
New-York, October 18.
Arrivals at'lhis port. Dayt
Sch'r Fannjr Bridger, Hill, New-Orleans 30
Brig Rebecca, Brown, Havre de-Grn~e 37
Diana, Fairchild. Norfolk J
American Hero,*M'l>oßgil, Madeira 53
Ship Bartington, captain Steward, on her pal
fage from l»eith to this poit, was loft in the night
of the 2id September, off Cape Sables—
crew and passengers got on shore on the ifte of Sa
'bles with pfovifion*.
Sloop Nancy, May, froth this port, is taken ins
the bite of Leogfne, by a French privateer.
Salem, October jg.
On Sunday arrived at this port, the /hip Henrys
captain John Green, from St. Petersburg, 55 days.
Sailed in company with the ship Aurora, captain
Felt. Fifty leagues to the wellward of Fair island,
spoke the (hip Warren, captain. Stanton, from St,
Petetfburg, bound to New York. Sept. 11, lat.
49, long. 38, spoke the (hip William, eapN Stan
ford, 44 days out from Liverpool, bound to Port
land.
£/* Advertisements unavoidably omitted
this day Jhall appear" in our next.
•. ' " ; ■
00-NOTICE.
THE office of the feeretary of Hate of the U
nited States, is removed to the north tide of North,
alley, between Market and Arch, and between
Fifth and Sixth-ttrccts, the third door above Fifth
(treet.
29th October, 1796. 3
--7 ■' 1 ' T ' ' ' ' ' —' *
bales of cherry Wint^.
. |
On MONDAY afternoon at 2 o'clock, at William
Sliannon's Auction Store,
Will h Sold by Auftibn,
30 Quarter cajks excellent Sherry Wine.
WILLIAM SHANNON, Auctioneer.
O<£lober 29.
Sale by Audlion.
<Mh*
Tobe fold on Saturday evening the sth or November, at
7 o'clock, P. M. at the Merchants' Coffee House.'
TWO three story brick houses with convenient kitchen*
north fide of Markatjbetween Seventh and Eighth-Hi eets,
each houle with the priviledge of an alley is 16 l-i fret
front ; the lot is 150 in depth.
One two story brick house in Zase-ftfeet, commonly
called Sugar alloy. The houf« is 16 1-2 fe<tt front, on said
alley, wich a good kitchen ; the lot is 90 feet in depth.
One vacant lot,adjoining the said house, in Zar.e-ftreet,
16 1-2 feet front, and 90 fact deep ; at the end of 90 feet
the said lot widens 33 Jeet, and runs back of the Market
ftreet lots 11 ■ feet, 33 feet wide.' %
One two story brick house and kitchen in, Zaoe-ftreet,
161-2 feet front; the lot 45 feet in depth.
45 acres of excellent meadow land in Greenwich,
which will be fold either.by small parcels or 12 acre lots.
.$0 tons of excellent upland hay. Enquire of
HENRY Sl-.CKEL,
GEORGfi COOPFR,
HENRY SHE/IFF,
♦ ABRAHAM WILT, of
EDWARD FOX, Audioneer.
Ostober ig.
To be fold by au&ion,
Merchant's Coffee-Houie, on
ffIUH. day ' t - he fecolKi of next month, at 6o'
c ' oc ' c ' n 'h® evening,
SSWzSThe Ship WILLIAM PENN,
Philadelphia built, of cedar and live-oak; burthen
about 360 toes; she is in good order, now ready to take
in a cargo —This ship being well known, it is needless
giving a detail of further particulars, aj any person in
clining to purchase may be informed thereof by enijuir
ing of the Captain on board, Jeffe and Robert Wain, or
John Field & Son.
The terms of payment will be approved notes at
a, 4, and 6 months.
10th mo 29th. HtW
On 1 UESDAY, the ill November, at 7 o'clock,
f at the Coffce-Houle,
Will be Sold by Public Auttion,
Captain George Graham, as she new
at the Old Dillih-Houfe YVharf,
JS&ißtfmmPCir the Swedes Church—this reflet
is fuppoled 10 eariy 1600 to 1800 barrels—the inveiv
tofy may be seen at the fubferibers', aad at the CofFee-
House.
Footman & Go. Auctioneers,
Oflober 29.
The Subfcrihcrs have for falc
The following GOODS:
Claret in hogsheads
Do. of the firft quality, in bottled
» Malaga wine
Old red Pott do.
Madeira (London particular) fit for immedi
ate use.
Philips, Cramond Co.
October 27. 3
Washington Lottery.
The 3id and 33d days' drawing oi the Wafhineton
Lottery, No. s, are received at the office No. 234, Mar
ket-street, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. lnlormation given where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
Q&ober 17,
Walhingtbn Lottery.
The 3a and 33d Days Drawing are arrived at the
office No. 147, Ch»ltiut street.
Prizes in the above Lottery are exchanged for tickets
warranted undrawn.
* ° d - tt&s
FOUND, ~~
A small Bar of Iron.
Soppofed to have been dropped from a dray. The
owner may receive it by applying to the Publilher of
this Gazette.
O&ohcr 27.
Boarding and Lodging
TWO GENTLEMEN may be accoramodrect with.
Boarding and Lodging, in a private family and pl,afant
th f " l 7 • Apply t» tU Pi-inter of tfie Gazette of
the United States.
i ° aober »' ttScstfJust Landing,
> 'At South Jlreet-wharf, from oh board the /hip Sedg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Pelerjburg,
The following Goods:
Rnflii Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper. -
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Crash.
"Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to? the lb. of the
. , EngtHh size.
Do. White 6andle Tallow.
Do- White Soap in small holes
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Dock.
Jfinglafs, ill and and fort.
Horse Hair uncurltd.
Ruflia Bar Iron.
Do. Iron.
. Dio. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Peterlburg CSean Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cratno'nd, & Co.
» October it.
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, Jan. & CO.
Have received per the William Pe'hn, in addition to
their own affbrment,
A corifignraent of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele
gant London patterns ; also a few cases of handfeme
Buttons—Which will be fold at a short credit, 6n very
reasonable terms, by the package only.
Q<ft. 14. , dtf
For Sale,
. A Complete Font of Brevier,
ENtirelynew, and y.et unopened. The weight of this
font is about 31a lb. !t is from the Foundery of
Wilson & 9ons,Glafgdw, and will be fold at cofl & charges.
Also Tor Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
Enquire at the Office of the Gaaette of the United
States, 119 Chefnut-ftreet.
September 27. dtf
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of Madeira Wine, landing from on
"board the schooner Lucy, Capt. Prows, at Cnefnut- J
street wharf, and for file by the fubferiber. 1
Robert Andrews,
OA. 14 mw No. 86, So. Wharves. J
City cf Walhington. <
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No.II, ,
TOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE (
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent J 10, coo dollar*, & > j
dwelling-house, J calh 30,000, ire )
1 ditto 15,000 & cast 25,000 40,000 j
1 ditto 13,060 at cafli 15,000 30,000 (
1 ditto io,ooo & cast 10,000 20,000 t
1 ditto y,ooo & calh 5,000 i o,ooa \
1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,006 f
z cafe prize of 10,006 1
% do. s#ooo each, are • 10,000 1
10 do. 1,000 - • To,ooo
so do. 500 - • to,ooo
00 do. 106 - - t0,006
*ob do. 50 '• * 10,000 a
400 do. 15 - 10,000
1,000 do. so « 10,006
15,000 do. io - > 150,000 j
**,739 Priaw. t
33»»Si Blanks. r
50,000 Tickets, it Eight Dollar*, 400,606 e
r *
N. B. To favour those Who may take a quantity'Of a
Tickets,the prixe of 40,000 dbllars will belie last draw*
ticket, and the last but OKI: f
And approved notes, feeiring payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received for e<
iny number not less than .to tickets, p
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpetiflien of the pri- d
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Washington— tl
Two beautiful designs are already fele&ed for the entire w
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawirtgs g
it is proposed to ere£t two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
"the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A Dett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the neceHary expeofe* of printing, the furplns
will be.made a part of the fund intended for the National ■
Oniverfity, to be eicclcd within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
ifter it is finiftiod ; and any prizes for which fortunate tn
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the 0
drawing is dosed, arc to be confidcred as given towards 01
the for the University ; it being determined to fettle bi
the Whole business in a year from the ending of the draw- w
ing, and to take up the bonds given as feeurity. t0
the real securities given for the payment of the Prizes, ta
Ire held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued it more than half the a- "
mount of the lottery. j"
The rweaty four gentlemen who by appointment of /
' the late Commiffioßers afliiled in the management of ihfl
Hotel Lottery ire requeued to undertake this arduous taflc „
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num k
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the r >
friends to a National University and the other federal ob. n
jeA» may colitmue to favor the design.
Ey accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are assured that the
drawing will speedily e»mmen«e, and- that the care and -
caution unavoidably necessary toinfure a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has rendered the inorr fufpeufion indispensable,
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tiekets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of h
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Prtcr Oilman, Boston : f
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and t>f Richard Wells, 8
'Cooper's X'erry. co v
To be disposed of, t
THE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who *
hjs between four and Ave years to ferv*: She
•Mn be recommended for her Tobriety *nd honesty. For
particulars enquire at No. 131, Chefnut-ftreet.
A 3- wfcftf
Mr. F RA N CIS,
(Of the New Theatre)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
frholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends. 5
en his return from Maryland, to open a public .tea- <
demy for dmcing, upon a plan entirely new. He 1
flatters bimfclf that his attention to his pupils hi- 1
therto renders any promilts of conducing his future '
schemes on the moll liberal and ftrifleft terms, of pro- '
priety, totally unnceelTary. '
N. B. Private tuition ufuaf.
June i law '
Dancing school. ;
WILLIAM M'DOUGALX. will open his fdiool ob Klon
day the 3id inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hew Bail Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Str«efß.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock
on Mondays, Wcdnefday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to' 9 o'clock on the evenings o
the fame days.
.. In addition to a namber of new cotillions, he means to
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firft pra&ifmg ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
For terms, tcc, enquire at his ho use, No. l j4.Market
street.
Ofl. iy. . . ■ — CCtf.
This Day is Publiflt-ed,
By William Cobbett, ogpofite Chr fl-Church,
An Answer to Paine's Rights*of Man,
By I< Makcnzic, Esq. of Edinburgh.
To'which is added)
>. A Letter to Citizen Swanwick>
By Peter Porcupine.
The whole is dedicated to Doator Joseph Priestley,
, Felloiv of the Royal Society of London, Citizen ot
America, and Deputy Elect to the National Conven
tion of France.
To be Sold,
" e " The Time of a smart, a&ive Negro Lad,
y Who has Eleven years to serve.
Enquire at No. 58, South Front-street.
Oflober it. §
Valuable Real Estate,
'* For Jklt at Außion by Casper Thiell, of Hamburgh
late the property of "fame: and William Kinnear.
For file by public anflion, on the 9th day of November
j ne*t entiling, at the sign al Gtn. Waftiington, Wood's
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county, the follow
ing real eftate,viz.
1M A TRACT of land containing 465 acres with
°" 1 xl allowance for roads,cilkd the Purchife,
Suited in BrUnfwick township, Berks connty, patentod,
i!th o: Jan. 178S This tratS, of which about 15 acres
n are cleared, is of good foil, situated on the or
> Little Schuylkill, Well watered and timbered, on which is
creded a good log dwelling house and flablfc.
No. a. A trad of unimproved It nd, containing 184 a»
eres, with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented aßth
1 O(Sober, 1790, situated in Brunfwick township, Berks
connty, foil good.
No. 3. A tract of unimproved land, containing 376 a
, cres with allowance, &c. called Hillfbarg, patented 18th
Odlober 1790, situation, &c. as N0,2.
No. 4. A tracft »f unimproved land, containing 388 a
cres, with allowance, &c. patented ißth of Ortober, 1716,
'situation, &c. as No. land 3.
No. 5. A tracft of land, containing 168 acres, and 5*
perches, with allowance, &e. situated in Brunfwick tdwn>
ship, Berks county, on Tomagua, or little Schuylkill, 5
miles above the town of Hamburg, on which is ere&ed a
well finifhod two story fqhared log dwelling houfc, 17
feet by 35, within the distance ofloo perdiesfrom a forge,
with the advantage of a firry and public house jthefead
vantages render this trad very valuable.
No'l6. A town lot In Hamburg, enclosed with a poll
ind rail, or board fence, containing in front, 60 feet, and
in depth lße feet, fubjeft to a -ground rent of 7/6 per an
nam.
No. 17. A town lot "In Hamburg, cnclofed as no 16, to
which it adjoins, being of the fame dimenfiofls, and fubieA
to the fame ground rent, on Which is oreded a log stable,
by it feet
No. tB. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No 17,
a corner lot, fronting on Main and Schuylkill streets, di
mensions the fame as No. 16 and lsi, above fub
je<S to 10/o per annum ground rent. On this lot is er
eded a large % story dwelling house, 45 feet fr >nt on Main
flreet, by 34 feet in dfcpth on .Schuylkill street, pleafiintly
' and advan'tageouQy situated for a store. (
1 N. B. The above described three town lots will be fold
separately or together, as may bed fu:t the purchasers.
Conditions of sale—One third of the purchase money
to be paid to the subscribers, or either of them in Philadel
phia, M or before the expiration of one month from the
• day #* sale, when a deed of conveyance will be eiecuted ;
■ the rtfidue payable in iequalpayments, at 6 and \ i months
with intereft,the payment whereof to be secured by mort
-1 gage on the premises.
Jatnej Hendcrfon, ~] Affigneesw
Frederick l>lontmol!in, I the cftate of
Thomat Rogers, J James k Wm.
Jtfeph D. Drinker, J Kinnwr.
September »6. m & th.
STOP THE THIEVES !J!
LAST Wednesday Evening, Oflober ig, belween the
heartof 7 and loo'cloclc, the bed 100 m of Mr Rickettsia
O'Eller's hotel was emered, either by means of falfc keys,
orat the window, by some villain or villains, who mull have j'
been acquainted wi h the fiuation of the house (as the door '
was found locked after they had committed 'be thefi) who
took a way from amoogfi feveial ttmiks, ONE whiclj con«
tained a valuable part of Mr. Rickeit's property, but of which
he it not yet able to ascertain the contents particularly. Af
tfr bringing the said trunk away, and emptying it .of up
wards of a thousand dollars in cash and bank notei, the vil
. lains left it behind the circus, during the time that the per
formances of the evening were going forward'
It is earoeftly requefled, that al) tavern-keepers on the stage
roads, and the ferry tioufes, as well ssallcivil officers, may
be waicliful in lecuiiog iulpicious persons, who in-y have a
redundance of cash, which their appearance would by no
• means bespeak them to be poQiclfed of.
One Hundred Dollars Reward
; Wi " given for securing the thief or thieves, snd a far
ther reward for securing them with the property.
j ...pa- d.
I MR. RICKETTS
BEGS leave to inform the Ladies md Gentlenen, that
r he will open his RIDING SCHOOL on the ift of Nov.
. for the initiation of Ladies and Gentlemen in the ele-'
, gant aecomplifhmcnt of riding and managing thtir horses
with ease to thcmfelveß.
Mr. Ricketts has well trained Horses for the accom
modation of Ladies and Gentlemen for exercise, to pay
, mouthly. Pupils to pay by the season, or by the lesson.
Horfas trained to the road or field.
' Odleber 14. j
FOR SAL i. 1
A PLANTATION,
A B 11 mlles fro ™ !l, '» Citv >in Abii.e
---s 11 ton Townlhip, Montgomery County j contiinine
* 1° alr r'' a r ew l ? one houfe ' two ft °f'es high, 1 rooms on a
. floor, fire places in each, • stone kitchen and (tone fining
" r>r r \ n fpT ' nE ° f wat,r '» b "n, flables,
* !!lh r '" C k'' A lar f= a "P lc orchard, and a varieivof
: ot n trlrul j> about 12 acres of good meadow well watered,
. " woo ° for fire, and fencing ihe place. Poffcfli
on may be had the ift of Ap.,l „e xt . Prooerty i„ ,h„ ,ity
will be take,, in exchange, or MORRIS and NICHOLSONS
Notes m paymenr Enquire at No. 37>A Kh-6trect,
' rl.iladelplua, September 13, i7gb, ,' t y
l
Samuel Richardet
3 * n ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlewirn
Iv Merchants, that he has this day opened the CIT V
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the,
6. city of Philadelphia; .. , ,
The Suhfcription Room will be fiirniihed with all the
ar daily papers published in Philadelphia, N-'w-York, Bof
-0 ton, Baltimore, together with thoie of the principal corr
mrrcial cities of Europe—They will be r«gularly filed
IQ and nolle permitted to he taken away dh any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
e . of Frthch Liquors; sogethtt-with the ufUßl'refrdfliments,
ry will at all times be procured at the b*r. ,
Gentlemen may depend on being Accommodated with
et the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Mait Liiptdrs fro.m London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied With the prime and earliest
produ<slions of the Season.
Large and small Faities, or fiwg 1e Gentlemen, may be
accommodated With Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
1 hours ttiofl: convenient tt> themfelves —a cold Collation is
' regularly k*pt for cofivetiiency, tht Billot" Fare to be had
at tho bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed.-and
the utmost attention paid to (leihiliuefs, and every other
requisite.
y, £5" S \uu2L Richardet will be happy to receive, and
of elecute the commands of his Krli llds, and the Public at
n . large; and With gratitude fer their favours, he pledges
himftlf that fiothing on fhallbe wanting topri
fdrvethat patronage with which he-has been ft tfiftinguifii
— ifcgly Honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. lilwf
Watsons Answer to Gibson. ,
JUST RECEIVED,
And for sale by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chcfnur-!W«,
Apology for Chriftianity>
In a firiet of Letter's, aiireffed fa
Edwarb Gibbon, In..
r, Author of the History of the Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire:
T By R. WATSON, d.d. f. r. s. B'ifiiopef LandafF.
■, (Price 75 cents bound)
Watson's Aftfwer to Paine,
To be had at the fame*place.
b The itieDiies ef Religion are awake ! Let nit ber
j» friend] Jleep.
'» Sept. I. mw&ttf
' THIS DAY PUBLISHED,
s By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet>, j |
(Price I a s-i Cents) ,
J The President's Address ;
• To the People of the United States, ]
Ajmottncing his intention of retiriHg frem public life <
• at the expiration of the present constitutional term of 1
1 t
September 20. d 1
Treasury of the United States. 1
t XTOTICE is hereby given to all pcrToni who are or 1
i-N may be Creditors of the Unitqd States, for any sums '
. of the Funded Debt, §r SUii, bearing a present interef of fik '
per centum per annum.
ill, That purfuantloan A& of CMigrcft passed on the .
aStli day of April, 1706, intitled an aft in addition to an
ad, intituled " An a« making fuithor provifioa for, the
support of public crsdrt, and for the, redemption of the "j
t public'fcebtthe said debt or flock will be reimhurfed and J
1 paid in manner following, to wit. '• First, by dividends C
. " ts be made on the'lali days of March, June and Scpten>-
11 ber for the present year, and from the year one tkoufa»d
( " feren hundred and sinety-feven, to the year one thou
, " sand eight hundred & eighteen inclusive, at the rate of
" one and one half per centum upon the original caoitsrl.
' " Secondly, by dividends to be made on the kft day of ,
" December ior the present year, t»Bd from the year one
)! " thousand seven hundred and nincty-feven, to the year a
, " one thousand eight hundred and seventeen incluiivc, at
" the rate of three and one half per centam upon the ori- -
, " ginal capital; ar.d by a dividend to be ma le on the last i
, " day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun- 4
M dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be tliea ade- _
I " fyiate, according to the contraA, for the finaj redemp- 6
" ticn of the said flock."
, id. All Jiftirtfiion between payments on account of ,[
. Intenfi and Principal being thus abolifhcd by the cftablilh- L
. ! mem of the permanent rule of rfiiuburfi.rucnt above de- f,
, fci'ibed, it has become necessary to vary accordingly the tl
. powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
. creditors will therefore observe that the following form n
lis eftablilhedfor all powers of attorney which may be
I panted after the due promulgation ol this notice, viz. c ,
!| KNOW ALL MSN BY TH£S£ ?££S£NTS, »Ut n
. J 1 «f ft
, do make y conjiitutc and appoint C
'J ' vy true and lawful At
-1 ftrmy,J~cr and in my nime, it receive lie dividend, rviiet art,
orjbatl ir payable according (o lam, on tie (her J defcribingthe
flock) /landing mmy name in tie Lcoij of (here defcribingthe
book, of the Treasury or the Comrniffioncr of Loans,
where the llock is credited) from (here mfcrt the com- -
mencemcnt and expiration of time for which the power of
, attorney it to CORtintfn)-with p.v„r afo an athr„ey*r attor
, mcc under Aim, fir Mat purfof, to mai, and fuUtiMe, and U, d % all
■ lawful aSc requisite fir tf.tKug tit pr.mifee, Lrety ratifying and
, ewfrmm all that my said Attorney .r hi.fukjiitute^fbaUUwM
•lf do, by virtue hereof. J t ,
1 In Wiineft her,of, I lave tertunlo set my Hand and Seal the a
y 'f in tit tear C(
Sealed and Delivered
in prefencLtf,
LX- K-NCirVN,ihai on tie day of
tfire meptrfenaily erne
' ifst'll ZTd-ef "" rivuelmtr of attorney i, be
\ Intj/limony «W«/ Have hereunto set my Han land atfx-
Srnl the day and year lap afore/aid.
Oiv.en ardcr my Hand at Philadelphia, thii twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to dire&ions
trom tiie Secretary of the Treasury
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
- . Ireafurer of the United ft late,.
»-*• ,tiy
A Manufadory FOR SALE.
. A Vsluahle SOAP and CANDLE M snu f,ft orv r.tu.te
. in a Convenient p.rt of the city ; the work, almost new, „
I on a " e " llrc, y <>»g<nal conftruaioo, and buih of the best ;
materiahl, and n»jy be set to work immediately. Perrons
: » d
September 13. ttf tf n
NOTICE. d
• T H ft E a^« fC hl b f r ' Vlng - r"" r,duc,:d in hi ' eircum ll
X stances, by sundry misfortunes, and beina tl erebv
nnable to fatisfy h„ jufl debts, hereby give, notice to hU
Creditors and to all persons ooncerned, that he intends ts
apply to the General Assembly of MarvlafldVt Vkv
. session to be held on the firft Moudav 7f
; f- the benefit of uu ad of inWveney "
' ,» r .1. U WILLIAVI EDMONDSON
5 Eaftoti, ift of the 9 th month,1 796. tam.flMN
f NANKEENS, " ;
Of the Jtrjl quality, FOR SALE ET, 1
\> RD- and JAS. POTTER
'J ? "7- qU T''y above flve Thousand Pieces ali
bcrai credit will be given » jt 1 p
September ,j. K * & P "
70,000 Pieces Nankeens
Of the beji tpiality and on reafonablc terns,
lOR SALI BY
Philip Nicklin &f Co.
e Anguft 16. dtf
r " For Sale,
d A lilref"lI ilre f"l° ry HO V S J ind L «. in Chefnut
J. X flrcet, between Front and Second streets, in whirl,
y Messrs. James Caibraith & Co. have for many v M rj an -
S) now do) carried on bulinefs. v 1
Poffctrion will be given in one month, or sooner
b For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL. 0 r
si S1 hector calbraith
'• Ap 5
11 Treasury Department,
e September 28, 1706.
lt "\T OT . ,CE *' hcrel) y g' vcn that propofala will n- x
[s i. > ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Trci '-•
d until the expiration of the firft day of Inarch xt
fume, for the supply of all rations which may he roquireJ
ti for the ui'e of che United States, from the firft day c e
r Jiune,_ 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, j- f? | 10t |j
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftricls lure
d after mentioned, viz. .At Ofwego; at Niagara "«C
it Pjcfqut IT-e; at Sandufky Lake, and on Sanditfl;v>
5 R' var ; at Detroit; at Michillmackinac; at Fort-Frank
- tin; at Pittlburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton 1
i. at Fort St. Clair ; at Fort-Jafierfon ; at Grcnville • at
; Picque Town and Lofamies Store; at Fort Adams'- at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance i at any place below Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fott
Steuben ; at Fort MalTac ; at any place from Fart Mafiie
to the foutfc boundary of the United States on the river
MilTiOppi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
Jf supplies (hall be required ior any posts or places not
mentioned in this notice, all firth fupplics shall be fur
mfted at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
■between the United States and the ContraSor.
c " lc m j on » to be applied are to conflft of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
• One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of mm, brandy or whiflcey.
One quirt and half a pint of f»lt."S
Two quarts ef Vinegar, ( ,
Two pounds of Soap, Q per hundred rations
One pound of Caudles, J
The rations are to be furnilhed in such quantities, a;that
there shall at all times during the said term, be fuflicient
I for the confnmption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, »ad OlWegti, for the term of iix months in
advance, and at each ofthe other posts, for the term of
at leu It three months initdvar.ee, in good and wholesome
provifions.ifthefame stall be required, lt is to be un
derPiooa", that the ContraSor isto beat <he cxfiente ard
. l ift: of iffuirg tlrt fupplias to tho troops at each poll, and
that all loflcs fuftaSned by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops ofthe United States, Biali be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
the depositions of two or wore persons of creditable ehji
rafters, and the certificate of a commiffioncd officer, as
certaining the cireumflances of the loss, and the -mount
«»f thi ai tides for fchich compensation shall he claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
~ Secretary of the Treasury.
Lottery
FIR railing ITxthoufand fix hundred and fjity-fi'vm
dollar* and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the pr.z6t, and not two blanks to a piizj. viz
I Prize of jooo dollarsis dollars 5000
I 1000 JOCO
t SOO jco
S %oo jcio
' ■ -b-JR-'- . ■ - loe 2CPO
> 99 50 4950
aoo %j jooo
*OQO ID 20,000
J Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, jooo
Vs3* Prizes. 44v4?C>
4018 Blanks.
63.50 Tickets »t Sivin Dollars each, 44,450 1
By order of the Directors of the Society for establish
ing UfcfulManulaSures, the fuperintendauts of the Pat
crion Lottery have requested the Manager" to offer the
fortfgeung Seheme to the public, and hare directed them (
to refund tli£ money to those persons whoiavc purch;fed '
iu the former Lottery, or exchange the 'ickcts for titken
in this Lottery.
The kSttery has aSually commenced dfawitvg, and will
continue un,tilfiuiihed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ot Wiltiam iSUckburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will give infornvitjon where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 1 jth day ef June, 1796.
J. A' CUMMING, 7
JACOB ti. HAKDENBERG, >pianageri.
JONATHAN RJIBA, )
dtf eo
Waflnngton Canal Lottery,
NO. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifcd
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thoufaud,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
•a Canal through the City of Walhington, froa th P«H
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruoiir.
The following is the SCHEME «f No. 1.
Via Prizt of 20,000 dollars, lofioc
X ditto 10,000 10,000
7 lall drawn 1
Tickets, each j «' 00 °
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
to ditto 400 4,000
20 ditto too 2poo
55 ditto 50 t.TSO
5 750 ditto , ii 69^0*
To be railed for the Canal,
5850 Prizes, jyj.ocxv
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at T«r Dollars, - 175,000
!0~ The Cemmiffioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aft for the punctual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as loon as thr Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given. *
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finilhcd, shall be consider.-d as relinquisHed for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Si & nid) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL,c/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. m.duncanson,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of WalhinyvOß, Feb. 11. 5
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119 —
CHESNWT-STREET.
[Priec Eight Dollars per Annum.]