. • v i .■ ' , \ v s'
: yy • . » i? ■,/
'~y " •" • \ :• . . ... . • . A / §**
tt of the ißniteTJ |$tatCS, 6* Philadelphia Daily Ad\
mo.] • TUESDAT EVENING, JUI.T 26, 3796. •' ■ K r
—1 —; : : ; ~ fprrr oar t.< r\r?' i T"\T7TV /~\NT PADDTAPCC »l, i
Just Arrived,
In the !h» Molly, John Frost, Mailer, from Liv.rppoU
5000 Bushels Best fine jtoved bAL 1,
6oq iiufhels CO \L,
Audi ,BCrat« ot QUE EMS WAfIE aflbrtf (J,
FOR'SALE BY
Philip Nicklin & Co. ®
jj. B. THE S/UD i
Ship MOLL Y, j
»' CH ARTER, (he » 5
I tots old, Philadelphia built, of wnitc,; <
oak : was weii laltrd and earner about 4200 baircls-of Flour. t
Fov cms apply as above. I
July 23
: ~ /.
Advertisement.
On Saturday the 30th inft. will be Old at public auc
tioil r
lull The new (hip
LIBERTY, f
"DURTHEN .110 tons, with her "
IJ masts andJpars as delivered by Jj
the carjieme., good judges havf pronounced that tlhe
is a faithfully built 'vessel, of good and well seasoned , ,
matt-rials, one thousand dollars will be inquired of the ; *
pu-chafer at the time of sale, and for the remainder a |
credit will be given of 3, 6, 9, and rx mon the pay- ,
ments to be secured by notes negotiable at the Bank ®f -
Alexandria, with approved endorsers.
JOHN MANDEVILLE, 7 T . at fir thc
-GKORGECLEMERSTON, & > creditors of jfrfi. } 1
. ELISHA G. DICK. J aum*.& Co.
23 dt 30th.
For Sale, Freight, or Chartej,
—-j The Scho®ncr
ML - ANGELICA,
'hundred and twenty tons burthen—
V / fix months old, a (launch, f:.ithfui!y-
Imilt. "tad-failing vefTel, hapdfomely finished off, an J well
found in ■every particular. For terms apply to
t B. 'RHODES,
On, board said fchooncr, lying at Bickley and Bohlen's
•wharf, the firft above Market : flreet.
WHERE THERE -ARE FOR SALE,
A few half-bbls. Prime Mess Beef.
July 14 S
■ For Sale or Charter, J
BOST ON, J
BURTHEN asout 2000 Bbls. of flour—(he may be sent
to feaat a frnaH cxp,:ice, her faiis and rigging being ia t
very good order—apply to
fames Campbell, or ]
George Latimer. a
April, 29. S (
For Barbados,
The Brigantine
FAME,
Francis Knox, Maf:er,
m T TAS good accommodations for paf
'-1 " 11 fengers, and is expeAed to fail on
ThurfGay fiext For freight of a few barrel* or pajfige,
apply to capt. Knox, at Hamilton'* wharf, or
Ju'y 23 6] KEARNY WHARTON. r
For Boston,
. The Bng
SALLY,
WILL fail in a few days and take
v.'^freight very low. Apply on board
at Lownes's wharf.
July 23 d3t '
Schooner LITTLE JGHR ,
FOR SALE,
THE Schoonfr. LITTLE JOHN,
CAPTAIN BOYD,
A BOUT 18 months old, a very fact
jAjWr'V XV failing vessel, on Virginia Pilot boat
P' an > now 'aying at South ftrett wharf,
arries near 9«.0 barrels,. is ready to take
2fca=L'~rv/ in a cargo ; a liberd credit will be given.
Apply 10 PETER BLIGHT.
July 19. loteod
Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
, No. 76 High Street,
H .AS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
'.he East Indies, a well feleCVed aflbrtment of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Hafcerdafhery Goods ; which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the loweil terms ;
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
Son-e fine India mullins embroidered with gold and JMver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black tafFeties,luteftringsand colored Persians
Banc!ano Handkerchiefs
Long and Ih6rt Nankeens
Englilh Mantuas of thc firft quality
Daniajk table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant alfortmsnt
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd d». and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irilh Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li
• " verp'ool,
soeo Bnfhala SALT ; (
100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; and
An Aflbrtment of SHIP CHANDLERY;
FOR SALE
On board, at Pine-flreet wharf. Apply to
» fames Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April 29. 5 i
CO N O fl C E. '
There will be fold on Thutfday the 4th of August, at '
the Merchants'coffee house. in Second.fi reet, ,
One thoufafid shares of the stock of i
the North America Land Company. :
If not previoufij difoaAd of.
Philadelphia, 20th July. " dts
THE SALE OF
The TOWN, and OUT LOTS of the TOWNS
of ERIE. WATERFORD, FRANKLIN
and WARREN.
DVERTISED for sale by the State in the Phila-
l\ delpliia Gazeiie and UuivcrJal Daily Advertifrr* lo be
Sold in trie City of Pivladelpbia ; will o<«iii;iie«ice at the Cily F
Tavern of Co^ce-Houfe in Secohd-Vreet, in 4he faiil ciiv, on 2
Monday the 25th day of July inft. at 7 o'clock in the c v e«»- />
ing. and be cominued fey adjournment' Iron) dav to Uav*, tiom, fl
12 o'clock at {won, until two o'tiock, aud from 7
in ihc ®ve<i«rj/. until the wbok of the said LOTS and d
•1 OUT LOVSaredifpofed of. 'I'he conditions of sale will l>c
made known, and the plans of the said LOIS and OUT
LO'I S"be shewn a< the time and place o £ sale.
By order of William Irvine, Andrew Etlic tt and Gectyt J Vi!fon
EDW/.RP FOX, Auctioneer. *
July 22.
Take Notice,
'"P'HAT the Subfcrib-r intends to mace applita
-1 tion for the renewal of a Certificate, No. 1609,
fcr 4000 dollars, dated the 14th December, 1795, bearing
interell at 5 £ per cent, trom ill January, 1796, in the ,
name of David Dunderdale & Co. of Leeds, in York
shire, merchants. Thf fame isfuppofed to have been loft
• on its way to New York, under cover to Bleecker & I
1 March, of that placc, on the 6th of January last-
Thomas M'Eucn. f
Phiftdclphia, «2dJune, 1796. J6w
Sales of India Goods. i
■
The Cargo «f the ship Ganges, capt. Tingcy, from Cal- C
cutta and Bengal, 0
CONSISTING OF *
A Large and general aflbrtment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS. fl
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine -ju/orked and plain Mujlins,
Dorcas, \sfc. Also, 1
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, J
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER. 1
For Sale by t
Willings £sf Francis, \
No. 21 P&nn Street.
June 5 ' §
TAKE ,
THAT application will be made for the renewal of
the following certificates, issued by Joseph Nourfe,
Register of the Treafui y, in the name of Roger Gril'
woW, Esq. of Norwich, ConneiSicut—
i certificate, fix per cent domeflic flock, Ne. 13,907 r
—dated the 17thDecember, 1795, bearing interell from [
the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65-100 doi
-1 ditto, thre- per cent, doineflic llock, No. 10,683
—dated December 16, 1795, bearing interell from the
firft day of January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dollars.
1 ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th
December, 1795, bearing interell from the firft Janu
ary, ISOI, for. 798 83-100 dollars.
Said certificates are fuppafed to have been loft or
ftoien in this city foijne time in December or Januaiy 1
last. ' ;
JOSEPH THOMAS,
No. 59, North Front-ftrcet.
Philadelphia, July 21, 1796. d6w.
For Sale,
A Three story BRICK. HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and ftraets, in which
Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on business. 1
Pofleflion will be given iti one month, or sooner. 1
For terms apply t© WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April 21. §
On Monday next, 25thinft. (July,)
Will be landed at South Itreet wharf, :he cargoes of Superb,
Weft Indian aud Ifabtlla, from Jamaica and liavaona, con- <■
filling of j
Molafles in Hogsheads,
Coffee in hogsheads, barrels & bags, !
FCR SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT, •
Who has also fvr sale,
, A quantity of Jamaica GINGER, ,
t Pimento & 7 T -n 1
; Cocoa, | In Ba S s » !
And 15® boxes Hambro' W INDOW GLASS, 7by q, will 1
be fold cheap. 1
July 20 diot & tuth & $ tot
CABLES,
From.l 6 to 9 i inches, for sale by
i Jeremiah Warder,
t Julyia 5 No ia northThirJ-Ilreet.
1 '
Landing
r From on board the Nancy, William Belcher, mas
ter, from Bourdeaux, a cargo, confiftkg of—
s 360 Hilda. CHOICE CLARET, •
232 Cases of 24 bottles each CLARET,
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS,
For Sale by
F. Cpppinger.
July 23* dtf.
Just arrived,
220 boxes best Claret,
Containing two doz«a each, for fjle, Wholesale Sc Retail, by
William Sheaf ',
*dS July a. No, 168 High-duet.
Public Notice is given, '
ro the merchants and others concerned in tht (hipping
I at State-Island, under quarantine, that a Can will
attend every ,mo.ning, sundays excepted, trom nine to
ten o'cl.ck, at the Health office, No. 31 Walnut-street, to
convey provisions or other Refrefhmcnts to the Hospital,
and for the use of the crews.
[ It is cxpciled that the Bags, Baskets, or other »acka»-
es with supplies, will be with thj name of the vef- .
L - uu l captain they are intended for, to prevent miflakes
at delivery.
■ By order of the Board of Health forthe port of Phil»-
delphla, L?yi HOLLINGSWORTH, Chairman.
J u| r 'S §
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
f PHAT agreeably to an act of Congrels of the United ! r
'i Statesot \merica, palled at Philadelphia, the aßtb day i .
of May, 1796 • lav 'tug duties on Carriages', tar the convey- j
anoc of pcrlocs, iind repealing the former acfi for that pur- |- ,
ptife.;—That rtiere (hall be levied, eolicfled and paid, upon j
all carriages for the conveyance of perlona, which shall be : '
ivi.pt by or lur any person, for his or her own use, or to let {
out to hire, or fpr the conveying of paffciagers, the icveral du- I
| yces"follo-.viog, to wit. ' 1
and upon e\'ery Coach, doW
up a every Chariot, 12 dols.
upOli every P 4\ Ch;;npt, \i dols^
ui'Ort every Cnaife, ia'doi».
vpon every Piiac:on, w\th(>H-w,iiboUt top, gdols. j
• uf«.iii every 9 dols. j
upon other Carriage®, having panne 1 work abpve,
with blinds, gialfes or curtains, g d<*»ls,
upon four wheel camagfi,, hariftg tramed posts and
top: with rteel fptings, 6 c|oii. I
upon four wheel tup, Carnages, with woaden or iron |
tpriugs or jacks, 3 dais.
upon curricles with tops, 3 cols.
, upon chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon chairs with tops, 3 dois.
ufon lulkies with 3 d«ls.
I upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols."
upon two wheel caniages, with Reel or iron springs,
3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carnages, 2 dots.
upon every four wheel carriage, paving framed posts
and tops, and reitiug upon wooden fp3fs, 2 dols. ,
The Colk&ors of the Revenue »t the iirli larvey of the
Diftnftof Pennsylvania, vv'ill attend daily, uoiilthe 30th day j
tsf September next, for the purpoi? ot rece.ivihg the duties on
Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or Hreet, in the City
of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Efq iu the
County ot Montgomery ; and at the house ot Abraham Du
bois, fifq. in the County of Bucks; of which all person s poi
lelTed of such Carriages are defned to take notiep.
Notice is also given, i
TO all retail dealers in Wir.es, and foreign distilled fpiri- I
tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to them ; one li 1
cence for carrying on the bafmefs of retaking of wines, in a 1
less quantity, or in krls quantities than JO gallons —and one j
licence f«r carrying on the business of retailipg Spirituous 1;- ,
qaors m less quantities than 2® gallons, at the fame time and 1
at the fame places, by thc officers legilly authoriled to grant c
such lice Aces. t
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpe&or of the Revenue of tti« firft survey
of the diflri&of Pennsylvania.
Office of at )
Philadelphia, 2itt July, 1796. > t 30 f.
— — 1
Choice St. Croix Sugar & Rum,
NOW landing from on board the Bng Willian Pen- 1
nock, Capt. Thomas llallcday from St. Cioix and for
sale by
Pragers ess Co.
July 19. diw.
Twenty Dollars Reward.
WAS STOLEN, last evening, from the paflure of th<
lubferiber, a hlack Rockingham GELDING, 15
i-2 hands high, has a star, and Tome white uilder his
•liroat, ffhe part being formerly chafed) ;has a leather on
hi. neck, the mane on the near fide, his foot-locks fretted
teitha,t:p£, and is a horse of much Who
ever fecitr. s liim with the thief, lhall have the above re
ward, or for the Horse alone a very generous compensa
tion JOH>' LAWRENCE. 1
JulV 7 eo^v
Kotv Pui/i/bing by the Printer,
At No. 3, Laetitia Court, delivering to Subscribers, ,
and to be had at the different Book-Stores in this City,
Bern man & Co's
CHEAP JND f LEG ANT EDITION OJF
The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the OW and Naw
Tcflarrients and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes andte
erences. An Index ;or an account of the moll remarkable
pafTagesin the old and newTeftamcnt. pointing to the places
wherein they happened, and to the places of scripture where
in they are recorded. —A Table of Time.—Tables of scrip
ture mcafures, weightsand coins i with an appendix,contain
ing the method of calculating its measures of surface
hitherto wanting in Treatises on this fubjefi. A Tabic of Ojfeis
and Conditions ol men.
' CONDITIONS
i* The size of this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO,
printed ®n a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par
ticularly for it, It will be publiiied in Numbers, not to ex
ceed 30, one of which will be delivered weekly to fubferib
ers, at a quarter of adollar. Thafe fußfcribers who prefer
receiving the work complete, will be attended to by fignifying
the fame on any of ti«e lubfeription papers in rhe Bookllorcs
in this city.'
2. There will be an advance in the price, on fubferibiog
after the fiift of August next.
3 In the courieof the Work will.be given an elegant
Front if pi cw—From an Engraving celebrated artist,
Grigmqn.
Bf rkiMan & to. gratefullyacknowledge the very liberal
encouragement t&ey have met with; and ha<rereafonto believe
that the exceution of 'heir edition will answer every
and /peak its own praise.
May &6 3aeoww.
Lottery
FOR raising fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and,fifty cents, by a deduelion of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
I 1000 *1000
t s°« J°°
5. 100 lOCO
20 .100 2000
99 JO f 4950
i-o 15 S°°°
2 ceo 10 40,000
5 Lafl drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000
2331 Prizes. 44,450
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,4J0
By erder of the Directors of the Society for eftablilh
»ng UfefulManufaiSlures, tfte fuperintendaats of the Pat
erfen Lottery have reqnefted the Managers to offer the
foregoing S.heme to the public, and have direiSed them
to refund the money to tHose persons who have purehafed
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
The lottery has a&ually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finiflied. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office ot William. Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- GUMMING. •)
JACO& R. HARDEN BERG, > Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
.June 1S ea
I Treaiury of rh.-
I "XTOTICE is hereby give
| Jl\ may be Civdiiors of •
lot t\\t F*nJcd Debt, or Stoci, baring a prcfent intcrcfl <J : :x
; fer centum per cbtrym*
j i ft, That pursuant to an AS. of Congref* passed et>. the
: sßih day »f April, 1796.- incitlect an art in addition t« an
: r-ii, intituled « An aft miking fuithcr provision for ha
1 fuppm.t of public credit, tz# i v r the redemption (of the
public.debt," tSc faiJda.t or ioctwjil be reimbursed and
paid in »snner.f(>!lt)wjHE,to wit. " Pint, hy c::-. ir«»ndj
" to bo made oil the Jul <k*s cf March, June a.*l Si,:;ctn
•« bet in- the prifeht year, and from the year onethoufand
" seven hundred and nincty-feven, to" tae year otic-rfiCTB-
" sand eight hundred & eighteen in.hifivc.'at the rate of
" one and one hail per centum upon the original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to ''v ma<|e on the lift day of
" December ior the'prefent yqar, and from the yer.r ore
" thousand seven hundred and niriety-feven, to the year -
« one tjiouland eight hundred aud'ftventeeu inclusive, ac
" the of three aud one hjiif per ceottim upon the ori
" Jli'ial capital pind.by a dividend to he ma e o« the lad
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hur.-
" drcit and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ado
" quate, according to the ecutraft, for the final redenfp
" tion of tllr said ljock."
id. All dil.inftion between payments on account of
Intereij and Principal !»cing thin ahpliOied by the eftablifh
mcnt lit the permanent rule of reimbursement above dc
fcribed, it has • ne'eiffary to vary accordingly the
powers of attorney lor receiving di'. "iuids ; the public
. creditors will therefore observe that the following form
iseflabiifht'dfor all powers of attorney which may bi
granted after tht due promulgation ot thii notice, viz
KXOIV ALL MSN Br THESE PRESENTS, that
"J in
do malt, conjliiute and appoint
'-f nry true and lawful At*
terniy,f,rmt,andin my nam, to receive tie dividends, which are,
or Jhall be payable according to law, on the (here defcrihing the
ftoci) Jiatiding in my nam tin the booh of (here describing the
books of the Treafurv or the Commiflioner of Loans,
where the floelc is credited) from (here mfert the coni
-1 menccment and expiration oi time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) with power also an attorney or attor
nies under him,fit; that paipfe to maU andfubflitate, end to Jo nil
lawful aßt riqu'/Uefor .-J'tJUitg thepremifes, Hereby ratifying .ind
confirming all that my said Attorney or bisfuhflltute l'aiij
ly do, ly vh-tue hereof
In Witness hereof, Z Lave hereuntofet tny Hand an:'. Siul the
day of in the year
Sealed and Delivered
in prfence of,
BE IT Kl\VW2*,that on the day of .
btflre jr.- perfonaV.y came
within named and acknowledged the aieve letter of attorney ,to U
bis aH an d deed.
li: tefi,itony whereof I h.zve hereunto set my Hand end aJJiK
ed Seal the day and year last aforefaic^
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia; this twen
tieth day of July 1798, 'pursuant to directions
from the Secretary«fthe Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
Ireajurct of the United Siatts.
ftA 1 23- w & / * I J.
For sale by the fubferibers,
in penn-stk£etj
130 quarter Chests frejh Hyson Tea*
isjo ditto do. Irciii Soucfipng Tea;
30c Boxes China, containing Frhall tea setts of 44
pieces;
400 pieccs' XJandanoes.
Willing y Frpr/it.
January 30 ■ jtaw.
University of Pennsylvania,
... .My «6, 1796^
r F'HE Summer Vacation will take place on Mouday next,
t,ne j 8" hiiift. and continue for Four weeks. —The differ
ent Schools ui.htV fcv'eraJ Tutors will accordingly re*
aifemblc on Monday, tiie Au^uft.
By the Faculty, Wm. Roc »crs, Sec'y-
New Hat and Hofiery-flore,
j' WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,
s By WILLIAM M'DOIJGALL,
No. 154 Ma,ketjlreet,
Third door liom the corner of Fourth, south fide
e ' Men's Black American and English HATS, of various qua*
s lilies and prices
Ditto Drabs and Green unders
Ladles' ditto, black, and a large ailortment of fancy dp. 1
, Coloured Beavers, With a great variety of elegant and
I fafhionaUle Trimmings
Youths Black and Drab-coloured do.
Children's faacy do
r All kinds of Silk, Silk 8c Cotton, Cotton & Thread HOSE
Knit, coleured Pantaloons
% Do. Drawers
Do. ISreeches Patterns
Silk Gloves
Knotted, coloured do. Cotton
|t A quantity of Mending Cotton, sorted colours.
t The Hats finiftied in the newest falhion.
June 27. e#im
»1 —
I Washington Canal Lottery,
n°. 1.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix tho.fanJ,
twohundred, and fifty dollars, for the pttrpofe of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, from the Po
n tomac to the Eastern Branch Haroour. \
r The following is the SCHEME of N«. I.
Viz -J Prize of jo,ooo dollars, 10,000
o I ditto 10,000 10,000
o 7 last drawn >
o Tickets, each j 3Sfioo
o 6 ditto 1,000 6,000
o 10 ditto 400 4,000
o jo ditto 100 ifieo
o 55 ditto 50 1,750
0 J7jo di «° 11 69,008
o To be raised fer tho Canal, 16,150
0 5850 Prizes, 175,00 a
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.}
0 175°° Tickets, at Ten Dollans, - 175,00*
The Com mi !!ion er s have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aA for the pundlual payment »f
e the prize*.
n The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
d delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
:s notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded ic fir months after th«
[1 drawing is finiihed, ihall be confidercd as relinquiihed foe
:s the benefit ®f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
4 (Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
'• THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City »f Wa(hi«gto», Feb. 11. §MAR,TO£S*B REPORT «
Jj of Anlientt, en the fulject uj "■
ne Prizes.. ?
M* 1«S - ' 11
i ;ic i the 'tneafures adopted by «
ivcrament, relative to the f'
. ippear to have excited apt
prdienuotis li. tov - .of many good citizens, it ■
mnlV effort! peculiar fatisfaftiitf* to perceive that in ,s
t lis cafe po Hop has been taken—jtie policy am! 'oi
julice of which is not fully recognised by eur gat- ft
lie alliesA eircumftance whiijh clearly evinces, »
thai were the Constituted Ant hoi it us cf the two «
nations left to themselves, unaided by collateral pre- «'
j'jdices, but few cireumUancts would intervene to
interrupt the harmony which ever to prevail be
betwrei: two llepublies, whose common object is £
the ellablifhment of a free government. Corrobo
rativ e of this feat invent, 1 forward yo« the follow- °
ing tranflatedcxtradlfrbm the Report of BARBE c '
MARBOIS, raade to the Council of Antients, b,
upon the refutation relative to decilions upon Ma- '■
ritime Prizes :— As the speech involves much mat If
ttr of * local natuie, I have extradled Inch parts «
only as are utcreftina to Americans. Yours, ai
AMICUS. P
P
WE nowpafs to the second part of the refolu-
Hion :—Alter having prel'cribed the proccfs, to be €
juirfued wj.en the (hips of the enemy are brought U
as prizes into the ports of the Republic, it itntici- 31
pates the cafiyvhen they will be conduced into to- ''
reign ports, and regulates by articles four, live and °'
• fix, the mode which ought then to be pur filed. We
will in the firlt place examine, colleagues, whether ai
the precision so delirable in the laws, has not im
paired the clearacfs of- this ;—the firlt of these
three articles provides that the Chancellors of the ai
Consulates shall difchargc with respect to prizes, O'
the formalities preferibed by the law of thST' third v <
of Brumaire, to the justices of Peace. The com
million have confulteti this law and all the treaties 0
with foreign p' Wer*, with which it has been able - c
to have communication, and from the companion of b
them with each other, there has refuhed several ob
■fervations which it is about to submit to you. Ar- tl
tide 6th of the law of th* 3d Brumaire lafl, pro- "
vides " that prisoners belonging to a captured ship, t<
shall be given into the custody of a Juftiec of
peace," if they are .in like manner placed in b
the cttllody of the Chancellor of the Confulate'' ; "
it mwft of coorfe declare that the captivity which "
is not terminated by this deposit, cannot take place P
in the port of a neutral or an ally : Usage has
been introduced to rellore to these priloners their 11
liberty ; their captain or master' gives a receipt lp {>■
the chancellor of the Conlulate, which the lafter u
forwards to the miriifter to whom he is subordinate,
and this receipt passes in the refpedtive exchanges 11
which aie made with the enemy to procure the en- b
largement of an equal number of French prisoners. a
Humanity and justice command at the fame time, f
that ftom the funds of the prize there Ihould be te- p
witted ft) the captains thus liberated, a fnffieiency 'i
to subsist, until they have found some employ or an n
opportunity of returning to their country : Arti- t
Ucs 7, 8, and 9, cf this fame resolution of the 3d "
Brumaire suppose the exersife of a jurifdidtion a
whicii belongs undoubtedly to the justices of peace e
throughout the Republic, since the legifla/ive au- t
thority has attributed it tb them ; but whether the a
discharge, the proclamation, advertisement, the sale t
by a public audtionetr and the other adts of territo- «
rial power, can unequivocally be exercised by the t
'chancellors in foreign ports? Is a question which J
your committee did not answer until they had ex- f
amined the sth article of the refoluties which at- i
tributes te the councils the judgment of the validi- *
ty of prizes after_the arrangement of the proctfs
by the chancellor of the Conlulate.—Here, col- t
leagues, your committee have recollected those eter- r
nal maxims which regulated the duties of a fodety l
towards itfelf and its relations with other foeieties— t
From its duties towards Welfare deduced its inde- f
pendence, the unity of power and that of jurifdiq- t
tion 5 thefime principles prohibit the introduSion of any 1
foreign tubßc authority whatever, into the bosom of |
the Empire. From its relations with other nations \
emanate different duties, amonßft which there are t
but two which relate to the fubjeft we are treat- t
icg upon ; these are the firfl reciproeity of ufagr, (
and next the obligation »f contributing- as far as it' t
is in our.power to the happiness of other nations t
to their ,pi®fperity and to the preferyatiou of the t
peace tliey enjoy ; this right of nations has recei- I
ved, by treaties and Conventions, different mndifi- |
Cations, sometimes even reftiiftions, and a positive I
right has been introduced, which might be com pa- ■
red in its variety to those wriuen euftoms, whioh I
diverged onr civil riglrt, the child of the Icgiflati- ]
on of an huadrci heretofore independenft and info
lated Cantons.
Bat these Treaties, theft Conventions, oil agree 1
with refpeft to the jurifjiaion of Consuls, and referye :
exfreCtly to thejovtfeign of the territory, the difiributi- <
in of jujlice : We every day fee the Council lend- ]
lU'r »u attervrive ear to flifcuffions asrid in their de- 1
tafls, but worthy of it fiom the grandeur and ira- I
portance of the obj A ; we are therefore not ap -
prehenfive oflatiguing it by the analyfisof the trca- I
ties which we have been obliged to consult, in or
der to make a iult application of rules to the refo <
lution which is offered for your approbation.
»The treaty of 1769, between France and Spain,
p.ovides; " that French cap.f.ins, mariners or pas.
fengtrs ftnll preserve the right of applying to the
julioeof the country."
J The tteaty of commerce of 1796, between
Frawce and the city of Hamburgh, announces ai
ticle 9th, the design of eftablilhing in that free and
imperial city of the Teutonic Hanfe, a French tri
bunal to decide in the ca«fcß and trials of the nati- i
ru ; but this eliablifhment was found to wound
every principle, a«d the article has never been put
in execution. , ~ .
We icad the followin j'm a treaty figneain 1770
betweeu Franveandthe Kepubhcot Ragufe "caß
fes» which may inteieft Frenchmen on one part and
foreigners ou the other, shall be fifbjeft to the cog
r.lzancc of the judges of the territory."
liils cannot intermeddle in any thing which regards
•iiher the l'ubje& us the coiuttry or foreigners.
The treatvof commerce o r 1 775, between Frarer- c,
ana the United States of Amerk :, |/»omh»V- U,.- h
officers of admiralty ot American poi!» whiel: ti
Frenchmen may conduit their j>riies, Iroma 1
nffeance of the validity of such prizes and recipro- f:
cally ; But this fame ai tide adds, that they in.-iy g.
freely depart t%J>e conduced to the ports <>1 armt
ment, and the fpi' it *J the treaty h, th it judgment be
longs to the tribunals of tie Jlate of the captor C
is acitit.cn, but nut to the Outfit s. By the terms »■
>of the 33d article of the lame treaty, tiu trnizer can
fell prices (taken from Frenchmen} ill the por.s of ti
the United States, nor diithaigi .my part of Ins w
cargo and recipiocally tor prizes tak.*n iioiri Ame
tica' sand conducled into French ports. w
The sth " article of the convention of 17b'., i c<
between France and the Gene; tc
United Provinces, provides that prizes taken bv the C
(hijjs* of war or cruize.is ot either of the two nati- t!
oils,, shall be admitted ioto their refpe£Hve puits, y
that-they may be d.ere difchargcd ana fold agreea- ti
ble to the formalities praclifed, in the (late where h
the prize may be conduced, ; ' meaning that the d
legiitmaeyof prizes captured by French (hips of
war, (hall be decided conformable to French laws, ; t(
and reciprocally :—-Thi'l article as well as all which ! ai
precede it, is far from fuppolinsrthat the Confulfliall j ct
pronounce upon the legality of the prize. it
Agreeably to the treaty between France and
©reat-Britain, judgments upon prizes are teferved b;
to the courts of Admiralty ; and ws in the 3v! m
article the following article, too well juliified p*r- bj
haps by the servile obedienee of thfe British courts vi
of Admiralty to the will of the Uritiih tninillry : u
" Judgments shall be decided by judges superior to a
all fufpiuion, and who have no intcrcll ill the point p
in queltion " ' ? ' ai
'iTie treaty ofcommerce of 1787, between France e:
and Ruflia, attributes to the L'on[«ls, an authority e 1
over the crews of the (hips of their nation, and e- ti
ven judgment upon dilputes whkh arise between
seamen of their nation ; but this difpufition dpes n
not extend beyond the clews [ the " Sin article o
leaves the Consuls only the right of a voluntary ar- C
bitration over their countrymen j" it adds, " that g
if either of the two parties do not eonfent to recur i>
to the authority of his own -Consul, they may apply tt
to the local tribunals and both paities (hall be fubjedt o
to the judgment of such tribunal.'' a
Tll vain has your comn.ilfion fought for the cHe- ti
blifhment of aj ur ifdi£t ion of French Consuls in so ll
reign count ryes, offucha natuieas that which the ii
refoiution supposes ; it no where exifls; and the o
purer the principles are upon which a natidn has q
founded its conlfitution, & the nearer they approach o
real liberty, the more it is inclined la repulfeevery p
proportion offuth a iftvifioti of one of lie mojl.ejfeullal at- tl
tributes of itsfovereignty. o
It U true that different capitulations and frea, p
ties with the deys and defpotg of the States of Bar- b
bary,and the ports of the Levant, suppose that'tri f'
als between Frenchmen may be determined by Con- h
fuls ; but those abfolu'.e princes who, without ex- d
pence or controul are fupteme Judges over the a
livetand fortunes of their fubjefts and llaves, eafiiy is
figure to themselves, that the judicial authority of f
their country, mult follow them wßcrevef they go,
in'o whatever country they tianlport their domicile, t
and trtm reciprocity, they discover themselves when- ji
ever the cause of a foreigner is in quellion ; but lit- 0
tie jealous of the exclulive excrcife of this noble "
attribute of lovereign power,'often fatigued with f
the plenitude of their authority, they without re- n
gret fuffer a few particles of it to escape them, and n
this dereliction'is to them rathei a relief than a
privation : You will not, however, amongst them 1
fee b Consul inveited with the right of pronouncing c
in matters of prize between his countrymen and f
netiti-Jls. Your com«.i(Taries have also analized the f
Treaties and Conventions of foreign powers relating t
to commerce and navigation ; they have examined c
more than thirty documents of this nature, but they,
have no where difcovered'Confuls in foreign count
tries, established judges of piizes ( all these treaties 1
suppose that Confn's have r.o jurifdiition tven over t
the individuals of tHeir nations, unless it be volunta- 1
ry on the pirtof the latter and reduced to the sim- t
pie forms of arbitration ; the power is even refer- j
ved almost generally to the two parties or either of 1
them,.to bring his adversary before the tribunals of 1
the territory ; but iu> one ever dreamt of rendering \
Consuls Judges bet-ween their, countrymen and nw- £
' trals.—Thus it would be in vain for us to wish to t
confer upon our Consuls this prerogative which is I
truly extraordinary ; it would also be neueflary' to
. secure thrna the exereife of it by a treaty ; but sup \
posing any foreign power ftcie difp<?led thus to '
: ft rip itfelf of a portioti of its j jiJfdidtion, you can
. not, my colleagues, dt>ubt that they would at the I
1 fame time demand a reciprocal exereife in our i
. ports. r
A fingla example will render what I have ob- <■
served much mote ftrikirg : Let us suppose peace t
; re-citabiifhed between France and Gieat-Britain, c
■ and this power at war with Spain ;an Englilh pii- t
■ vateer forced by ftref3 of weathei to put intooouri r t
■ ports, brings in a Spanifli-prize, she brings in a t
■ neutral vessel or th* property of neutmlt ; our u'l- I
• are ii.teiefted in the prize I
taken from the Spaniards ;in fadt the captured al- ;
leges to have been taken in the waters of our domi- 1
nion, within cannon shot of our shores—in all these I
cases the territorial jiuifdi£tion is claimed, and that 1
of the enemy's Consul coutefted. Indifferent to <
, thedifpute, should we fee the British Consul fore- 1
- reignly pronouncing upon, discharge and restore i
: the prize, and even prepare with a fecrel j->y,. tfi«
feeds of rupture or difficulty, betwesn us and tl* 1
1 nation xvhofe citizens or fubjefts should conceive ]
- themselves aggrieved ? In fact,"a neutral nation Sc- !
1 twten two belligerent powers, ought not to fuffer' 1
- either of them tp exereife in its ports an adt of fove
- J reignty tven towards its enemy—otherwise it expo- 1
t I p«fes itfelf to indemnities and even to war, if it .
t has been able to prevent this violation of its neu- 1
trality. A process totally different is pursued,
5 and in those 1 are cases where ■« claim is made,
1- where the captured themselves fully convinced of
d the validity of the prize, fhoyld conf:nt to the sale,
- or white no trace of fraud may appear, the (hips
- and cargoes may be fold and the Consul or the
Is Chancellor may make the neceflavy arrangements, 1
and consular a&s which the nature of the affair and
9
' ' .
oonvcflViGns^ti*'''o*'flr*; but if our ni--»1 1) : .ie domain
luh been Violate!, and our citiz.'r.j dema or
11ill/,requi.lt the affirta.K* ot out rrii,ui;3is, it can
not be refufed them : In fire, in all oih-r raft '?<
captvrand captured ufte'r a longer or fuarter flay a
gretuhU tolbejpirit of tbeir treaties, egout proceed to
fta, the are CorJnded into the forts ef the nation
of the captor, and it is there they mis be judged, l'nis,
Citizen .Colleague*,»» Hie •Veciprocity »e demand
in order to furuifh it tb ..vrturti ; it is thitt we (hall
dil'efiargt: tije duties of fricndliiip or benevolence
towards our nihes, and c**en towaids those tta'.ioni
with whom art omy a; peace.
The commifiiUi have not adopicd the difpoution
whi:-h by aUimilatitigthe Conduts to the tribunal* of l
cotrroerce fn;> poles at firll that they are the mort
i convenient for communicating liii documents to a i
Commiffarv of the' Executive DireAory, a«d n«
the uoflibiljiyof communicating in the f;>aee of a' <
decade with the rainifter nf-ju'tice and the Execu t ]
live Directory, our Coiifuls ate piaced from two
hundred to two thouland league from us, and thi»
difpulition is evidently impracticable of exeqmiou.
It was necelfary for your comftiiiTlon to enter in. i
| to these long details, in order that if the Council of
I ansjents adopts a rel'oltuien which is not plear as ;
j could be vviihed, no doubt may arise as the real sense i
iu which it receives it. >
The conduit of the commillion has been dictated i
by the unalterable vilh of maintaining our treaties I
unviolable, ofreJpeHing, and caii/ing to be i
by ail our agents and officers the rules of the rights of j
nations, of asking nothing of other nations except
undei the law of a just and perfe>£t reciprocity ; in *
a word, to wvvent (he affirm!.ition in matters of
prize, of the chancellors to the justices of the peace
and of the consuls to the tribunals of cotnmerfce, '
except foJi?* as this disposition may be found to
compos l both with engagements already entered in
to, aik! onr own.domeitic jurffprudence.
But it will belaid that the view which the com
ttiilJionh.fr, presented to the Council, of the Hate of
our commercial »e!ations and the fun&ions of our ]
Cyntuis, proves the necefil'.y of prefcribitig to the :
greater part of theft agents a rule of conduct in the j 1
important and ddicste fuljeS of prize.' Here col- |
leagues, the constitution presents us a fufficient point I
of (iippart in the attributions.—The experience and 1
ability of a minilter of foreign affairs : Hejs educa
ted in the study of hiflory ancj treaties, h£ has con i
ilantly on his deflc, and much more perfetftly in his
incmory all the conventions and adts which regulate
our affairs with foreign nations.—He is even ac
quainted with the different intereils and engagements i
of those nations amongfl therefelves.— He antici
pates demands and complaints and in early to ftifie 1
the germs of dtfeontent and the causes of rupture,
or to prepare happy reconciliations, for oftentimes
peace or war is in foma degree in his hands. It is
by his attentive cares that he (jecures our repose, the
ftipport of exteiior tianquility is the produtt of his
labor. Perhaps at this raomcut instructions wifelv 1
drafted trace the progiefs of Consuls, and this filegt •
and fetret work is so much more meritoriotisj'as he
is often ignorant of the perfoiu who may reap the
fruit of it.
The commiiTariet of the executive power near
the tribunals,ate also provided, by the miniftert of
ju!tice> with extia&s of all conventions and treaties
of commerce and neutrality with foreign powers;
it is their duty to remind the judges of the difpo
fitionsol these conventions and treaties, and to de
mand the execution of them as often as exigencies
| may require it. 'Flu y prevent the tribunals of com
i tnerce ftom pronouncing (lightly upon confifcations
i upon a pretence that indemnities may be granted in
r cases where a wrong 'Jetifion may take place. Ia
j fine, they maintain 91 lincerity in judgment asd more
? particularly in eveiy thing which.may interrupt
r the neutrality of pow.ia not engaged in the war,
j or commit us in oppjlilion to them.
(I We mall not examine whether the principles of
. thst neutrality proclaimed with so much fplondor
s by Ruma, and received with so mneh acclamation
r by all Commercial nations (except England) have
. not experienced formidable attatksln the course of
. the present war. It is fuflacient for us that they arc
. jull, for us to persist in supporting them, wc will
f bring back to them all nations, whom error, per
f haps reciprocal, though traufient, have carried a
y way from them ; they will on their part be convin
ced that it is their duty, as well as their interest, to
3 take efficacious raeafurts to caule their neutrality to
s be I'cfpected. ' ,
3 In fa6t our miniders by inftruaiont wifely drawn 1
will secure the execution of the law, the plin of
3 which isjubmitted to the Council of Ancients.
We fiave faitl fufficient, Olleagues, to prove, 1
e that it it is adapted to present ciiCtimftances, still 1
r it requires dcvelopcmerils, and is only the summary
of a code which is yet incomplete ; it will regulate
■ everything whiih may relate to trials by appeal;
e the manner of proceeding in them without prejn
i, dice to equity on one part, or a celeiity which is in
- ok the other,and prevent tricks and chi
/ canery in the tribunals of different degrees; it is
a time perhaps when all profeflions are freed from
- their ancient ftinckles, to prevent the exciulibn by
c foimaiitirs wkich' still hold to the infamy of navi .
- gation.tliofe who demand to launch into the career
- of glory, of danger and of fortune. Tiie legif
e latot will combine at the fame time with the utility
tot giving a greater liberty to cruising-, the Rcceffity
o of pl.cing a che»-k upon the exeeffive and impru
•- dent ardour and avidity ot cruiferl, and of prevent
< ing the accidents which inexperience may occalioii:
« But Until this delirablc work is presented to the
• Council, your Commiflion were of opinion that the
e law, th- plan of which is submitted to you, would
secure the obje£t proposed which is the judgment
:r of prizes. Let us htllen when.the moment is so
favorable for cruising, let us hallen to carry difor
>- der anil trouble into all the commercial operations
it of that government who would wilh to fee the o
i- -cean dried up even to its source, rather than par
1, take its fruirs with the other inhabitants of the
;, globe. If nature has isolated her from every con
>t tinent, her (hips unite her to them and open tohev
*' so many passages.by which (he may dcpait from the
>6 rays of the cemre )* which <he is placed : Let her
e navigators meet a Ban, a l>ug ue Trouin, a Tburot
«, in every route they in iy jinj Cue ; let injur >r«s ab
d sorb fr«m her futjects all tiii. hanccs of g Jn, a n ( ! |
since (he Is <Je*ou:eJ w?:h }*e third of gold an,',
riches, let uscut ajifje. ui turn aside e»ery clumiel,
let us ilpp c»<i);(burce which may- serve to quench
it. Your CoKirailU'Jii wire 111 tavor of approving
the relolution. *
Your committee propcie to theCouncil'to accept
the rcfolution.
The refolptiou vyas sc. % -J.
■ —ynrr^r-
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
fcEW-tfORK, July' 25.
Pache, who was Mayor of Paris in hai
been arrested as one of the late confpiraiois.
Amar, an ex conitii'uewt, who .vas the principal
cause of the death yf the celebrated Si.
Etienne, is fined to haveJwfen tairty nw-efi*-?, and
confined in the houfc from whence in the days of
his power, he brought out the vidims of his re
venue.
There hasalfo been arretted a number of persons
who (tile thtmfelve* exclujivc patriots, and alterable
in tiff Rue Guerin Boijfeaii.
The criminal tribunal of the departm?nt of Seine
anj the Marne have condemned to death, four of
the affaffius of the second of September, on the
verdi£t of a jury which had declar d them to have
beer, guilty of premeditated affaffiuation ; a fifth
has been condens ed to 20 years imprisonment in
irons, on the ground of his having a£led without
premeditation.
rCouripr du Corps Legiflatif, May 25.]
Continuation of translations for the Daily Adver
lifer.
PARIS, ill Piairial, May 20.
Copy of a letter from Citizen Buonaparte, Gene
ral in c.hies of the ai my ot Italy, to the Exe
cutive JOiietiory. fX
Citizen Diiectort,"
I was of opinion that the crossing of the. river
Po, would have bee" the bcldetl a&ionof the cam
paign, as like wife the battle of Meliefimo, one of
the most vigorous actions ever known ; but i have
i now to relate the battle of Lody.
| The 2 tft, at o'clock in the morning, the
lurad quarters reached Cafal; at t ire our vangmrd
encountered the enemy defending the approach of
Lody. 1 immediately ordered all the uavalry to
mouut, and four pieces of cannon, which had jult
arrived, to be placed. # •
General Angereau's division who had (lopt at
Borgetho and hat of General Maffina who had
slept' at CaC.il, marched immediately ; meantime
the van-gua.d ovtrfet all the different posts of the
enemy, and took from them one piece -o,f cannon.
We entered Lody in purluit of the enemy, who
had already crofted Adda, over the bridge, lieau
lieu with all his army was rangec. in order of bat
tie; 33 pieces of cannon de.cp 'ed the paffitge of
the bridge. I can fed all my cirti.ierv'to be placed
lin one battery. The canonade for several hours
. was very vigorous. As f;>on as-the army arrived,
they were ranged undei a close column, having at
their head the battalion of the Carabineers,
and'followed by all the battalions of grenadiers,
beating the charge and exclaiming, Five la Repub•
lique.
We soon reached the bridge, which is on£ hun
dred fathoms in length the enemy made on ns 3
tremendous discharge, the head of our column
feemedfor a moment to hehtate, one fit nation wjs
really critical. Generals jßeHhier, Maffina, Cer
vano, d'Allemarjßf, the chi-.fs.of the brigade Lnf
ne, and the cii.ef of the battalion, Dopet, all [>er.
ceived it, and throwing themselves at tlie head of
the army, decided the fate of the engagement.
Our formadable column oveifet all thai opposed
it, all the enemy's artillery was carried a-wSy Irem
them ; Beau Feu's order of battle was broke, and
in Us flight spread every where terror and death,
in an inflant their whole army" was scattered.
General Mufra, Angereau and Berrant, crofted
?.s fiion as their division arrived and completed the
viftoiy. The cavalry eroded the Adda by a ford
which being very bad, delayed their march and by
that means prevented their charging the entmv.
The horse of the enemy charged our troops, but
did not fiud it an easy matter to terrify them. Night
coming on and the extreme.fatigue of the troops,
patt of whom.had already marched more than ten
leagues on the farjis'dny, we \Vere not all. ■wed to
puifue them any farther. The enemy loft 20 pie
ces of cannon, two or three rhoufand men either
kil|ed, wounded or taken prifontrs. Citizen La
tour, ai.l-de-camp of Genetal Maffina, leceived
fcyeral wousdt with a broad sword. I demand that
this brave officer be made chief of a battalion.
Citizen Msrmuate, my aid.-de-< amp, cliief of a bat
talion, had his wounded under him. Citi
zen Mafrois my aid de-camp capt. had his coat
fifted with balls; the courage of this young officer
is eqrtal to bis activity.'.
If 1 to give the names,of all the, militair'ei
who diftiuguifhecf themselves on that glorious d..y,
1 should name all rhe carabineers, and grenadiers of
the vanguard, and almolt all the officer* ®f the E
tat Major. But I ran!! not forget to mention the
Berthicr, who was on that day a cannoneer*
a horseman and a grenadier at the fame time. Sug
ny, chief of brigade, who commanded the aitiU
lery, behaved gallantly.
Beaulicu flies with the remainder of his army;
he is 11 w cfolling over the Hates of Venice ; seve
ral towns of which have Ihut their gates. Sir.ce
the beginning of the campaign, though we had
very warm actions, and the arfiy of the RepuHhr,
were oftentimes forced to shew a great deal of hold
ntfs, ntnVe of tlu-m has yet been so terrible as the
croflisg of the bridge of Lody. If we 101 l but
few men, it is owing to the hade of the execution,
aiv.l the'hidden effeit which the mass a"d tremen
dous site of that intrepid column prodmed on the
army of the enemy. .1 defnand that Citizen Mou
ni.-r he confirmed adjutant general, who serves '<1
that capacity, although he is not includ'd in ihis
affair. 1 demand that Citize'n Rey, aid de-tamp
of the brave Maffina, and Citizen Thoiret, woit.iy
adjutant of the third battalion of the grenadi«3j
be both made captains.
As loon as we (hall be fettled in a plnce, I will
forward you a lift of tiiofc who have dilHogmfhei
| them/dves ow ihat gloriousd-y.PL- • V. • *
Tlie cowrn'fftiy of the government wis always
t.- -ne; ike ai aiv U m i'h <0 his a&i* ; ty. u
UUONVPARTE.
«
Lester from th; Com ii fan <f ?' Executive Directory
■ tic.lr the armie' of l.<sljf~#nd the dlps t to the Exe
cutive Hired- ;»'•
Citizen I.J.rectors. _ »
T.rmortal gi ;'y t" the brave army of Iraly ! thanks
nd ■latitude to the unfitly boLi commander who di- rc
re :UU4 the kstti- finish. yesterday \yili be ever, me-
in irable in the annals Or biltory j here »re the particu
lars of which I give you :< flitch, being hurried by
tinie-r:id the crowd of business which do not give me
tnucb leisure.
Vou have been informed of the croTing of the t'o, c<
and of what took place i.i the adjacent i J :zzi- e>
ghitton.. We fit oat yetterday from Vlaifance, *ith ar
the commander in chief, for L.LI, which general
lie -.lu-.T, chief of theEtat Major, had taken the day
br' • He;i,e we marched to the vanguard, wh.ch
dnecled its-course towards Lody, in pursuit of the e- > a
nemy. The commander in chief hid so placed the fe- tr
verai division's of the army, tha: within two or three
hours' time, they could join in one point ; his design cf
was to come to a general atffion. A e found before ug, r
at nu great diltance from Lody, a fmill battalion of
Nadafli, and two squadrons cis horse, defending tlie
pafiuge, with four p-eces of cannon An ailion took nt
place ; the enemy aftpr having hajl fever.il men killed,
and loft one piece of cannon, were forced to evacuate bi
the town of Lp,iv a»ju to fall back on the main body of til
their army, -ivhich ltood on the left b.nkof the Adda.
We hid hardly entered Lody, when Bejulicu's army w
began a heavy cannorfade upon ,ihe town. Their de
sign was to hinder the crossing of the bridge which he
had not had time to cut off, and which was •iefended
by 10,000 men, both infantry and horse. General, C
Buonaparte himfelf ran immediately thither, and un- ar
der,a hail of cafe (hot, caused two pieces of cannon to ar
be placed at the entrance of the bridge to liinder the p
enemy attempting to cu it off, an 1 while the
cannonade was going on vigorously an both lUles, be
ordered Angereau, general of a division, to join him m
as soon as pollibte ; he also gave orders, to general Mas- rc
fena, to range under onctoU mn the four th-mfani ca- 21
rabineers and grena iers, and kept every thing ready if
for the crossing of the bridge. cc
That column of republican heroes beipg formed, tf
he went through the different ranks His presence in- a[
ipired the soldiers With rnthufiafm. He was received
with repeated acclamations of "Vive la Republic".
He ordered the tharge to be oeat, and immediately the "
soldiers with the fwiftnefs of lightening rushed on the w
bridge. The heavy fhowerof cannon and mufker-iliot jb\
which the enemy poured on ps, ftopt for t moment the 1 tt
column, and had like to have (haken it ; but t [
Berthier, chief of the etat-major, threw himfelf at £
their head, and being gallantly seconded by Mafieni,
general of a division, and by the genetnls of the bri
gades, Cervoni and d'Allemagne, made them force,
the passage. The grenadiers threw themselves on the fe
enemy's pieces and in an instant carried them away.
Tire ailion continued, and the victory was yet uncer- - c ,
tain, when general Angereau, with a forced march, 0 |
arrived with his division, whole vanguard was com
manded by getierol Rufea, and completed th« defeat of
the en»my. They were driven 01ft of all their po!}s, 31
leaving behind them all their train of artillery, wag
gons and baggage, and the field covered with dead, M
The mult qf the molt glorious viojoi-y of the cam- L
paign, on aceonnt of the obstacles we had to funrfount,
is 1000 men made prisoners, isoo killed or wounded, t;]
100 horses killed, 400 taken, iSor ao pieces of r.an-
no-i aiivl howitzer taken . had it not b.'en for the
nifjht, we should have pieked up the fcatterea remnants
of Beaulicu's army.
There has been on that glorious day as many brave ■
anions performed as there are republicans in the army.
Everyone did his dutv. But I mutt not fail to dwell
on the merit and courage of Marmuate, chief of a
battalion, and Marois, aid de camp to-ths general in
chief. The firft, w/ho on all occasions has difplaycd
as much aflivity as bravery, parried off, at,the head of
a detachment of horse, the firfl piece of cannon from q
the enemy. The other carrying th:general in chief's
orders, palled several times through the cafe fliots of
the enemy, in cool blood with an affi%iirEble intre
pidity. He had his coat all over fifted with balls. S
Salut ct i"raternite<
SALiCETTI. 1
The Execntivo Direflory to the armies of the Samhre
and Meufe, of the Rhine and Mjfelle. and of the
North.
Defenders of your country,
Again the din of war is re-echoejJ from tht Ranks (
of the Rhine 1 No sooner is the campaign of Italy
opened than conquered kings are compelled to implore f
peace—than the Icaltered remains of arm?es, intend
ing the overthrew of the republic, find ho fafcty but
in a fhamefu! flight, or :u as fhamefully concealing
themselves in impenetrable wootU or peitilential mai ih
es. What madness then can possess the heart of that 1
cruel enemy, vvho in the midst of his own difaflers and
of our triumphs, has had the temerity to break the
truce n hich he himfelf demapded and which you ge
nerously granted him, in tie hopes of an approaching |
peace ? Can he expedl to revenge on you tjie blows
which your invincible brethren have infMed on him
in Italy, andean he already have forgotten the terri
ble proofs you have given him that the fame blood
flows in your veins ? But no j fecure'and far from
your formidable arms, he calculates how many men
will jjcnfh, tow many tears will flow, how many
groan:, will arise, before you can rcach him.
Governed by the inhuman Englilh, lis receives their
gold and their contempt, for the price of hii abje<?t
fubinifiion, and of Ms braveil warriors.
Let vour republican bayonets, ye soldiers of France,
caute those monsters coalesced against the human spe
cies to tremble upon their tottering thrones. Let your
ardent courage overthrow all obstacles. Let this pro
longed combat of the libertv of 1 the people against ty
ranny, ioonceafe, and let those ambitious delp-ts w<bo
yet dare to meet you in tht field, prostrate themselves
at the fight of your viiSorions arras—think of the
catife that you defend—think of your country and your
glory, follow your own examples, and imitate your
brothers of Italy. Signed, CARNOT, President.
LAGARDE, Secretary General.
TURKEY.
Extrafl of a letter Confuntinople, April 10.
" Some tiui? since, a Fiench fqnarivon captnred
in 'he Archipelago, two Prussian vefTels ; theirarH
bafTador h?.c endeavored in vain to obtain their re- •
dilution. 0
'i lie French minister Venninac, has, howtver
thought proptVto inftitatea commifli >n of French
merchants to enquire into the merits of this cafe.
1 Le) luve declared the piiies to be legal'—confe
qtifntly they will be fold with their cargoes, efpe
cialy ?.s the mlnifters of tha Subline Porte, have
approved tV iudgme.it of the eommifilon. This
co'tlnft may prove very prejudicial 10 the Porte in
cafeof a rupture^between her and Ruflia.
Aaolhcr inftance'of the preat partiality of the
Pore in favor of Verminac ia evitued by the fol
lowng ciicomflauce :
■
I
s. The French siiniflrr cause.l a German, who wait, v:
uider the protect:-m of the Imp rial [uttrimncio, to
Sj by his own Jnni.Tanes, and 1 he
j {'■ m the place of that ambaifadUT to the Irlotcl of ih
.. France. mi
It was with the greatefl difficulty that the B«- br.
Ron de Herbert procured the release of this indtvicj-
: s (uil : notwithllaading all the remonltrances he made afl
l " :o the Porte, he could obtain no fatisfa£tion for M
this glaring infringement on his privileges. .
y HEIDELBURG, May 3. m.
c The honfe of Austria does not linger conceal eti
her design of a part of Bavaria ihe th
», consent of the E!e£lor, to fruftrate his furceiTiir and th
extend her frontiers as far as the river Yfer ; these rrf
'j ambitious views hare been confirmed by a Confer ' up
rence held between Field Nlarfhal Wurmfer-, aad [ he
the Duke of Deux-Ponts, in whicli tlie f»rtaet | Pi
.., said, " that it was endeavored to procuie him a dil- j lit;
;- tri<£\ near La 'dan in compensation of Bavaria '' aft
e The Duke' immediately ordered his minister toj —
n cpmmunica e this plan to the coalefc-cd powers, <w,
'» and to adore them that he never would consent to an
e the difmemberAient of Bavaria (his domain) until
he was compelled by superior force. wc
[, In the libellous pamphlet which has been diftri- of
e buted in Jlatifbort, the Duke is aeeufed of being di;
'f the friencHSf the French—a spy in their pay. (The ke
'• Auflrians are the known authors of this scurrilous ftu
y woik. ' po
MILAN, May 9 . ty
,1 Tlie French have finally eroded the Po,'about ha
il Codogno ; they are bow in poffeflion of Codogno th
1- and Cafal Puiterlengo. The adiion was rigorous tii
o and the corps of gen. Liptay, who the tri
c pafiage from the enemy, was very ill treated ; the ot
~ N^apoli'an horse fuffeced very much, and th? rejii- ry
ment of the queen was cut to -pieces. The court
p. received the news of this heavy (troke by an express au
l. arrived here this,afternoon. The archduke and al! bj
y the court are about departing ; all the town is in M
eonfufion, difotdet and terror ; the carriages and be
'» transports that depart from"TS?re - are mimberkls, gi
L j and no horse is to be got at the post. j:)
> P. S. The court left the. town towards sunset,
e the archduke aod arch dtitchefs likewise took the B
c wayto Bergame (about iq leagues from Milan)
>t j hut it is presumed they will riot remain long there,
s the situation of Bergame not being very f»fc, since
the French are already ifi pofleffion of Lody and
lt Coflano". *
J; VIENNA, May 2. a,
e His Imperial Majelly has frequeatly long con
e ferences with Clairfayt. S
T. These measures seem to announce an intention of B
f- engaging the Fir] » Marlhall to resume the comramd
'' of the army of the Rhine; frorti the advantages Si
which he gained at tke close of the lad campaign,
. and the ill success of the atmies his resignation,
he is considered as the only m-m capable of check
1. in j the progress of the enemy and of conquering the S
1- Low count rjes.
[ > In the mean time he is at the head of the mili B
'» tary operations. He receives all the difpatche- B
from theaimy of the Rhine, and after havin j madi
t5 his remarks on them,"they are forwarded to the
Count de Lofiey, minister at war.
e iiimmwmnniMWiiiiii m S
lj PORT OF PHILADELPHIA:
a '■■■
n • July 5(5. u l
'd Arrivals.
, Dap o!
T Sloop Fair Ameiican, Decker, Virginia, - 4 f<
,j- Lively, Bliss, Rhode-Idind, - • d<>: ir
Industry, Dillingham, St. Bartholomews, 18
S :hooner Hope, Jacock, New Orleans, - 20 fr
Sally, MerroWi Jeremie, - - 18 8
Brig Lucy, Simons, St, Jago, - - si
Alfred, Stewart, New-Oileans, < . 22 o
Columbia, Veacock, returned, fpr'uug a leak -
at sea. p
The (hip Dominick, Terry, arrived at Kingston
ks (Jamaica) after a passage of 17 days from this port,
dy The schooner Three Jolepbs, Captain Henry,
,re belonging to this port, #as liberated aCßermuda, j!
" and was to fail about the 14th instant. v. v
Norfolk, July 13. tl
jjj. brig Governor Pinckney, Capt. Rufftl, 21 b
iat days from Plantain-Garden River, Jamaica, on P
ntl Wedr.efdav last, in the latitude of Cape Charles,
:lle about 15 leagues from land, fell in with the Thetis 0
? c ' and Prevoyante frigates :on Thursday they cap- 0
tured tne brij Friendthiy, of Newburypott, Capt.
im Smfili, out 41 days from Aux-Cayes, bousd to
Baltimore. Shortly after, they bronght the Go.
>pd vernor Pinckney too, and put on board five patTen- 1
am gers that were taken in the Friendship, and sent | (
ien provisionS with them. ! ;
n y New-York, July 25, !l
Yeftefday arrived here the fliip Alexander .Hamilton, ; 1
Capt. Conger, 42 days from St. Übes. ' I
Touched at Madeira the 1 7th of June; a number of !
American vefiels lay there—among them, three Ealt-ln- '
ce i diamen. 1
pe- A Cape. Vincent came passenger in the Alexander Ha- 1
nir miltoti, who failed from3t. Johns (jJewfoundland) with '
ro- a cargo of fi(h, bound up the Streighis ; but having
ty- sprung a leak, with miKh difficulty made St. Übes, having
'bo 5 feet watrr in her hold—He disposed of his vessel and car
ves go at St. Übes. ]
the July IJ- Spoke the Glory, a Spanish (hip of 44 guns,
our trora the Havannah, bound to Porto Rico, 16 days out,
r>ur July 17- Spoke the (hip. Diana, of Baltimore, 7 days
. out.
1, Capt. Truet, of the schooner Hibernia, arrived
on Saturday, in 15 days ftom Port-au.Prince, has
favortd us with the following extraordinary ac
count —
red On the 30th --f Jur.e. 1796, at 7, A. M. the ]
m- (hip Mercury, of New-York, Capt. Jeffop, weigh. ,
re- ed for Pflrt-ati-Prinrt', in company with a number 1
iff and his Majesty's frigate Suceefs,
ver commanded by Capt. Pigot. At 11, P. M. the
ich frigate gave a lignal for all to lay to. The Merct)
ife. ry hove too 2 cable's length, on the frigate's qnar
fe- ter; at half pa(l I, A. M. .the tit of July, the .
pe- ftigste wore and ran upon the Mercury ; orders i
ave were then given by Capt. Pigot, to his men, to I
his cur and bring on board erery thing they could lav '
in their hands on ; they cut away his jihl»-boom, ■
fpritiail yard, sore-stay, jibK-ftay, fore topmast-stay, 1
the urtrove all the bowliuss, cut lloppe r , (hank-painter, ']
ol- and two strands off the bell bower cable, and or
dered bis men to take the fore iuy-fa'i! and jib, to
>
t. *- w _»
•Jiifc- fwiwfera. A* tikis time Capt, Jc(Ttip "
bsSß*' '-hat they would .:ut as !i:t!c Ai the)%coulil
iiclp; the wind was light, sod they cou'.d clear th*
ihip without cutting. Capt. Pigot brdered his
noen to lay hold of that dam.-i'd Yanleee rafeal, and
b- ing him on boa/J; which orders were obeyed.
As fooa as the (hip was cleared, Capt. Pi?ol; 35
aflfed for. the damned rHfcat\ the officer of the T
Mercury, Capt. Jrdup, iaid-, "I am the man i 1
Capt. Pigot a(ked what officer he wag ; th,- faili'ijr *
mailer replied, that he was thejjaplain of the Mer- j d
cttry: he ordered three boatswain's mates to take : _
the Tar.ifc rafeal and give him a flogging •' which —
they begjn to do ; Capt. Jeffup made no kind of |
reljftance, bjit. begged they would have compassion | —
upon him ; no attention was paid 0 his cries, ar.d ; E
[he fai-rtedjiin'cr the blow* he received. Captain
j Pigot then appeared to befitisfiedj attd Capt. Jef
| Uip If.viifir rerw/ered his senses, some time after, 5'
allced-Capt. Pigot for one of his fails, who replied *'
j — You damned rafeal, if you fiy one fjord more, I ; 11
will have you to the gang-way and Jlogyou to death T P
and thereupon sent him on board his veSTel again.
Cipt. fefT'jp arrived at Port au-I'rinee he °
went before a jury of Surgeons, and all the officers "
of the pot t, who all.exprefled ilieir-furprtze and in- '
digttatioii on feeing h;, bruised body He was ta
ken with a vomiting of blood, which was at length
(topped by the The gentlemen of that
poii allowed that it was the mott unjullifiable cruel-
ty and the groffcft insult to the laws of natijns they
hadwer heard of, that it (hould be published in all '
the American papers, and reprefemed to the ex ecu-'
tive of the United State!, and a statement of the r
tranfadtion sent to the Britiih court, Capt. Truet
oi the schooner Hibemia was an eye-witness »f eve- ,
ry fs<ft iiere listed.
Ci<pt. T. on the 4th inft. half way between Port- ,
au-Piince and Lvog'ane, saw three republican gun
bi>au take an EngMi transport <hip just out of the ,
Mole, with troops, bound in for Port-au Prince;,
bcifig chafed by the Brifl»ane, a British sloop of 16 1
Sruns, ran her on shore, and capt. T. law her \
in flam;i all (landing, aVid prefen:ly Ihe blew up.
Capt. T. aflures us, that upwards of ipaof the
British die per day at Port-au Prince.
From capt.-Harwood we learn, that the Two Friends
Capt. Riptcy, being captured and brought into the
Molt, her amounting to 10,000 dollars, was
condemned j and that the Argonaut had taken the brig
Batchelor, capt. Collis, and lent her likewtfe into the
Mole, from whence (he was to be lent to Jamaica, for
adjudicatioa.
ArriveJ at this port. ,
Ship Alexander Hamilton, Conger St. Übes
Brig Catherine, Sayer Gottenburgb |
Mcrcuiy, Davifon Charletton '
Sch'r Ann, Harwoud Cape N. Mole
.Hibeoiia, Truet * St. Mare
St. Patrick, Gardner Curratoa f
CLEARED. j
Sh'p Jersey, Barnes Europe
'Flora, Van Zandt, Jamaica |
B 'vq'.K- N otuiie, O'Coanor, do.
Btig E>o)phin, M'Fall, Antigua
V ;-<•(>«, Bledens Jamaica
Buy ilie, Dorgan do.
£:it.s, C:>ik, Welt Indies
Sch r :ii .mat Hunt do.
A gentlemen whocame in the Brifeisfrom Bour
dea"'',Hates, that Admiral Richery was iliU blocked
up in Cadiz waters !
On Friday evening lad arrived here capt. Colomb
of the bri'-; G'algo in 45 days from Cadiz, who in
fonim; tha; admiral Riihery's fquadrott vvasftill lay
itfg in Cadi: bay when he left there.
Capt. Harwnod of the fchoocer Anna, in
from St. Marek's ( Hifpaniola) informs, that on the
Bth i-ift. (he day ofhis departute) he attended the •
funtral of opr. Barton, of the ichooner two Ftiends
: of'this por—he left the schooner at St. Marcks
l —He also left • there the sloop Governor, of this
place. -
Extrafl ofa letter from Port-au-Prince, dated July I.
" Up war's of nine thoufaud tr ops have arrived hers
' and at Cape Diehola Mole within the two lad mpnths ;
' General Abrcromby himfelf is expected in less than three
weeks from he Windward Illands, with seven or eight
thousand moe soldiers. A parilh, next to the Mole, has
I been taken !r General Forbes, but we think he will not
[! proceed any tinker before Gerieral Abercroniby's arrival.
" We art informed, by way of St. Thomas's that C.ene
' ral Marqus de Bouilie has taken poffeflion of the Ifiaud
s of St. Euftitia, with a regiment of emigrants, in the name
- ot' the Kinj of Great-Britain."
o AUGUSTA, July 9.
We learn from good authority that there will be no
Indian tr;aty, and that the cofnriifiioners "on the part of
j tie ftatc have pcotcfted agjinft the proceedings of the
" j c»mmi(lbners of the United States.— ihe mifundcrftand
j ing which has prevailed from the commencement of the
) brfinel's, between those who ailed lor the general go
n, | verninert and those who reprefmtcd this date, is much to
' be lamented ; but something of this nature has been very
3 f ! generally anticipated front the politics of out of our eom
i_ miff.oners, whose influence over the others is not inconfi
derai>le,and whose fondnefs for military parade and ac
i- comnociating his friends induced him to take a body guard
h ith him, which, not facing perfectly confident with eon
pr tinertal arrangements, were not permitted to appear in
ig that lapacity on the treaty-ground ; and occasioned a four
r- ness ind feclufioti on 'he general's part, which may per
haps be found to have been the cause of a cefTation of pub
s, lie and prove the figrtul for Indian hoßility.
Y' iy aa Artifl resident at Mr. Oellers't Hotel,
d MINI AT UII E LIKENESSES
is \Ri taken and executed in that elegant and delicate
5_ L t.. (lie, which is so necelTary to render a Miniature Pic
ture an inttreltiug jewel.
He will warrant a strong/and indifputab'e refem
"" blance ; Hid he takes the liberty to lay before the public
t. of this pace his nioit earned intention to deserve their pa
;r tronage ly his bed -ndeavors to please.
S( N. '.pecimeus are to be seen.
It Ma >~ .
; LOST or LEFT,
At fomc. o'ace in the city or vic'nitfjr of Philadelphia,
,£ " which is not cno-.vn — \ note drawn by (faac Beers, Esq.
rs of the City of New-H<tven, (Cor«nc<skicut,) for 150 dol
o lars dfawn in favor of the fufcfcribrr, payable in March
Y next. As 'J: : note was not indorfedand payment is ftop
oed, it of no use to any one brtt the ewner* Who
' ever has founi said note and delivers the Tame to the
Frintcf at No. 1.19 Chefnut Street, or at the fubrcribers
r, No. 2s Carters Alley, iaVUj receive ten dollars reward.
r - Chejier Alivater.
e July ?,6. 3t. ;
X
Philadelphia,
ruF.SD lY EVtNING, Jult j6, 1796.
STOCKS.
**=■»
st* per Cent. » » , . • 17/^
Th-.e per Cent, f * » * * " - jofy
Xj per Cent, - - - - - - i«, 6
4 per Cent. - - none for fall, * - IV
0 :ferreJ Six per Cert. - - - - to 7
dANK United States, >. 14 pr. cent.
; ■■ " P«nnl'ylvania, » » » »• 30
■■ —• North \merica, - L - • 46 .
j Infurauce Comp. Njrth-America, /,c per tent. sdv.
j ; -Pcniilylvallta, 9 0 op:; cent.
. Exchanoe, at 60 days,'- - - i6jl to 166 4-J
C 3* The price of this Ga/.ette is eight dollars a
year. Subscribers wljoh- papers are fer.t per post
are charjjed one dollar yearly in addition for enclo
(in;* ani dire£ling. Six month t fiibfcription to be
! paid irf advance.
Advertisements will be prothptly
oufly pnblifhed, at 50 Cents a square for'the firft
insertion, and 25 Cents'foi every eontinuaiioh, ,
The following elegant and claffioal heroiekp, eon
clude the Oration protiounced by Mr. La
on the 4th inft.
§OON " Peace on earth (hall hold her esfy sway»
I And man forget his brother man to flay—
To martial arts, (hall milder arts fuecet'd [
. Who blcfl'es molt, (liall gain th tKfiortal meed.
1 The eye of pity (hall be pain'ti no more,
With victory's rrimfon banners ftaiifd with gore.
Thou glorious xra coma ! Hail bleiTed time !
When fuli orb'd Freedom (liall unclptide«! shine,
Whan !ti chaste Muses cherifh'd by her rays,
. In olive groves (liall tque their fw'ee'.eft lays— .
When bounteous Ccreg (hall di'reft hercai,
- O'er fields now bf'afted by the fires of war —
And'angels view with joy and wonder join'd,
The golden age return'd to bless mankind f
Porcupine's Epitaph on-Paine is exrenftvely
pttblilhe'd. In a Baltimore paper it is introduC*
ed with the following rematks—
s COURT OF APOLLO.
; For the Eagle of Freedom.
Meflis. Editors,
As the noted Tom Paine has been lonjr jjr.ee
dead-iu literary fame, and uftjfuluefs to mankind, I
hope you will, in common with your brother Ty
po's, give his memory a place in the Eagle. Hi*
last kind offer to the Citizens of the United States,
to take from them their chiefeft prop in life, mid
only comfort in death, their tnofl holy feligion,
would jullify you to place him iu an Qbfcure cor
ner; but, at the Ameiican character is above re
sentment, be pleased gently to depolit him in your .
Court of Apollo, whilll every reader ef reflection
mull reverberate—
ALAS, POOR TOM 1 1"
A Subfcrtber. »
RktrospeGT—An extras from the Iltcyjisiroß, ■
No. A*—one of a series of ingenious F.Jfays, which
are pnblijhcd in tbi Maryland Gerzette printed at
Annapolis.
Ah 1 why so far, so quickly gone.
Hav« the bright dayspf fileafure flnwn ?
3 Wher« a)e the fccnes so gay that tmii'd
And checr'd my bosom when a child ?
To wonted thought ijiy foul retires,
Ancl fondly seeks her old desires,
5 Which one alone by fancy fram'd,
c As every moment's wilhcsclsim'd,
c * Spontaneous came in variant throng,
8 And bade the hours glide foft along.
8 'But now no more these forms appear |
8 ColJ reason h»lds her empire here,
And as (he fprcads her sober sway,
See fancy her reltraints obey.
'yis thus we pass.the morning dreatfi,
" And meditate the fliining scheme
;e WUich fiftiun offers to our ryes :
it We wake and (Trait the vision flies.
L> Ye happy times unharm'd by care !
j' Ye youthful days for ever fair I
.J Ye fcertes where sprightly pleasures dwell t
d Farewell, for ever ! Oh farewell!
Ie Through darker paths I take my way,
Where dangers and where <Joubt3 dismay.
And anxious feats my peace moUft f
And hope deludes the eager bread.
Since then, O time, thou bid'ft me leav<»
ie All that these fleaing moments give,
1- Nor longer will the days remain,
lc When fancy held unbounded reign,
'* Oh do not this one boon refufe,
y Still leave me friendlhip, and the muse 1
JOHNSTOWN, June 29. ,
r '" Three (talks of rye, of this year's growth, hart'
."j been brought to town on- Monday last, by Mr.
n . Wil: Vn Wallace, one of which measured 8 feet I
in inch in length, and the other two measured above'
r- feveo and a half feet, which the Editor has himfelf
seen. Mr. Wallace aflierts that the field which is 4
acres will measure on the level full seven feet.
NEWPORT, July 12.
Extradt of a letter from North-Carolina, to a gen*
tkman in this town, dated 14th, 6th month,
S 1796.
ite " I have enclosed two Edenton papers, one o.
ic- which contains preferments of the grand jury
ag'ainft friend's, whereir r»ay be feeo the baseness
of mankind. In the other thou will atifwer,
ia- by an address from the Handing committee, &c.
Those vile men-ttealers appear much alarmed, in
consequence of friends application to the legifla: we
_ to put a (top to their career.—Last fall we came
very near getting a bill pafled in favor of emanci
; pation } there being ! 1 n\a ority for it in the House
iq] of Commons j but the bill was loft in the Senate
>1 by a majority of 4 only.*' »
ch ... — - . ■' -
E A Young NEGRO GIRL,
Of Fourteen years Old, FOR SALE,
rs QH£ has near Eleven Yaarsto serve, is healthy, and well
O acquainted with the bufinef« of a Chamher Maid, and
other house work. Enquire of the Printer.
July 23. 4 t£No;-? 38.
Diftrift of Pennfylyania to wit.
BE it remembered, that twenty-fourth, day of June,.
in the twentieth year of the Independence of the United
States of America, John Ormrod, of the (aid Diftri& hfth
deposited in this office the title of a book, the right whereof y ,
he claims as Proprietor, in the words following: to wit: ne y
" A (hort and candid Enquiry into the proofs of Christ's (
41 divinity; in which, Do&oi Ptieftley's opinion concerning | an<
'• Christ is occafionallv considered. In a letter to a fyeud. #
44 By Charles H, Wharton, D. D. and Member of the
Philofophieal Society of Philadelphia.
14 Whosoever deaicth the Son the fame hath not the Fath- 0
er. Let that therefore abide in you which ye have heard
*• trom the beginning :if that which ye have heard from the *P r
44 beginning shall remain in you, ye also fttall continue in CB *
44 the fan and in the father. St-John, lli Epift. c. ii. v. 23. un<
44 24." of
in conformity to the aft of the Congress of the United States ver
intiuHed 44 An aft for the encouragement of learning, by fe
- curing the copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the authors e ul
and proprietors of (uch copies, during the times therein v ic
mentioned.' SAMUEL CALDWELL, coi
Clerk of the Diftri6fc of Pennsylvania.
Juneaq ______ e(
Law Book-Store,
No. 3 1J, High Street. __
GEORGE DAVIS begs t< inform his profeflional
friends, that per the Ceres juil arrived froo* Lofi
dpn, hehas received the following scarce and valuable ,
books. State Trials, U vol. in 6 and si vol. Ruff
head's Statutes at large, 16 vol. Woods' Inflitutes,
Coke's Entries, Raftell's do. Browne's d 6. Hearncs
pleader, Coke's ad, 3d, and 4th Institutes, t vol. Roll's
Abridgment, Brooke's do. Bulftrode's Reports, Roll's
do. 2 vol. in 1, Floyers Proflor's practice, iClarke's
Admiralty, Rutherford's Tnftitutes, Deinnlogy, or the to
Eloquence and Logic of the Bar. These with his very
large colletSlion frotrt"V)ublin now on hand, will enable ci<
him to ftipplv an entire library or a single book, as
gentlemen may have oceafion on their immediate ap
plication. "
July 14. iwiw
Asjheton and "James Humphreys, th
CONVEYANCERS, • <r.
HAVE removed their office to No. 61, Walnut-flreet,
next door but two to the corner of Dock-ilreet, „
where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITISG are drawn at \
a moderate charge, with care, accaracy and dispatch.—
They likewifc bay artd fell Real Efl,ates upon commif-
fions, and procure Moneyupon Loan on good security.—
The business of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NOT A- ™
RY PUBLIC is also tranfailed at the said office a3 ufnal ,
• fcy ASSHETON HUMPHREYS.
N. E. Good Notes difeonnte'd. y .
July 5. eo6w
tjit) cf Wathington. «
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11, £
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT Of THE fe
FEDERAL CITY. £
A magnificent ) 000 dollars, & > M
\ dwelling-house, 5 calh 30,000, are $ '■ T j
x X ditto J5,000 & cask 25,000 40,000 at
I ditto, 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I (Htto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000 a l
j ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 io,oo« t i
I ditto 5,000 & ca(h J,OOO 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000 n
a do. 5,000 each, are, • i®,ooo tl
to do. 1,000 - 10,000 e,
20 do. s®o - - 10,000 g
00 do. 100 - - 10,000 It
*00 do. 50 xo.ooo q
400 do. 25 * i*,ooo n
1,000 do. *0 . • 20,000
15 do. 10 • • 150,000 '
16,739 Prizes.
34,261 Blanks. _ j
50,000 Tickets, St Eight Dollars, 40,*000 j
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets,the price of 40,000 dollars will be the Last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved noftes, securing payment in either monsy
er prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant Specimen of thepri-
T»ate bnildings to be ere&ed in the City of WalFiingfon— '
Two beautifuldefigns are already felefted for the entire
-fronts on two of the public squares; from thefc prawings c
it is proposed to erect two centre and four corner buildings,, a
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey 8
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in 1
the manner defcribcd in the fchemc for the Hotel Lottery. f
A nett deduction of fivsper cent, will be made to defray t
the necessary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus 1
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National a
University, to be erefled Within the city of Washington. (
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are 1
•fold oil.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days 1
after it is finifhad ; ants any prices for which f#rtunate (
numbers aie not produced within twelve months sifter the t
drawing is doled, are to be considered as given towards i
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle j
the whole business in a year from the eiding of the draw- j
"fcg, and,to tHke up the bonds given as security. i
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes, ,
jre held by the President .and two Direitors of the Bank ;
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a ]
tcount at the lottery. 1
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of !
the late Ccmmiflso"-r- aflifte'd in the management of the 1
Hotel Lottery uefced to undertake this arduous talk j
a Of of the a fufficient num- j
ber of' -idly accepted, it is hoped that the ,
frit - niverfity and the other federal ob-. 1
irr .•.» jr tile design.
s ■ .lv 1t«» the different parts if the
we! i • Europe, where the tickets
iif. . tt _ public ane assured that the
di» • 5 will f; jnirnenae, and that the care and
•1 necessary to insure a fafo dilpofal of
th« tickets, 1, adered the (aor: fufpeniion indifpcnlable.
SAMUEL ULCDGET.
, '■ chets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of,
Tai .j Weft &Co. BaJtimore ; of Peter Oilman, -Boston ;
- John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells,
Cooper's Ferry.
~ : No. 134.
Diftrift of PdnilfylvaaU, to wfe.
BE It Remembered that on thej!3d day of Msy, in the
twentieth year of thelndepcndence of .the United Slates
of America, I'iakcii Sn.ui.us, of the said diftrid hsih
in this office, the title of a book, the rigfit whereof
hs'claims as proprietor in the words following to wi< *' THE
DISAPPOINTMENT, or THE FORCE Of CREDULI
TY, a new Comic Opera in three ads, by Andrew Barton,
Esq. 2d edition teviiedand corre&td with large uddttiousby
the author,"
" Enchanting grdd ! that dofl conspire to blind,
" Mans' errin;; judgment and mifgaide the mind,
«' In fe|rch ot thee, the wretched worldling goes,
«« Nor dangers fears, tho* friends of right opoofc.'*
1n conform ity to the aft of-the Congress of the United
States, entitled " An aft for the encouragement of
by securing the copies «f maps,iharts and books to the authorj '
and pioprietors of such copies during the times therein men
tioned. Samuel Cudwul, Cllc Dift. Penn.
The time Cpcrt wilt ie piblijhcd in "it (onrjc aj tae , r three
turu. Juiy aa i4t
f f -
FOR S A/L B,
A very Valuable Estate, /h
CALLED TWITTENHAM, fituatc in the ,~-
township of Upper Derby, and county" of Delaware, l
71-2 miles frorti Philadelphia, and half a mile from the PEI
ne\v Western road: containing 230 acres of excellent land, cciL
1 45 of which are good watered meadow, 9a of prime wood- larl;
' land - , ami the refl arable of the fir ft quality. There fide
" on the premises a g:ood two story brick house, with 4 rooms N
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-wc!l lum
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, ftabLs, jem
j and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and (tone, J
e fpring-honfe ; two good apple and. one of pe ich- ~*r
-1 cs. The fields are ail in clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, which render jit peculiarly con- r-y
s venient for grazing. # 1-
The situation is pleasant andhralthy, and from the high
s cultivation of th&land. the good neighbournood, and the 0]
n vicinity to the city, it is very fuitablc for a geatleman's j
country feat. po>
The foregoing i» part of. the estate qf Jacoli Harman, oia
_ deceafcd, and effered for sale bv # tha
Mordecai Lewis, the
Ofl. 9. eo.] Surviving Executor. of (
J PROPOSALS, thl
By BIOREN fsf MADAN, Kn J
5 For publifning by that celebrated Work,
Godwin's Political Justice. air,
| s From the last London Edition. t j lt
> S T 1 * M s; ] ijn
' 8 I. It will be pablifhed in two large volumes, duodecimo. '
's 11. Price to Subscribers, two tjbllars, handsomely bound,
is to be paid on deliycry of the work,
y 111. As foou as a aumber of Subfcribtrs appear, fuffi- " ;
le cient to defray the eipeuce, it shall be put to press. " j
ts IV. The-names of the Subscribers {hall be prefixed.
Th - following CharaAcr of this work
is cxtrafted from the Wonthly Review, p. 3 JI » 3 la » ' iIT
March, 179 J. "i
- "We have no small degree of pleafnre i r n announcing
the present worli. to our readers ; as one wh rh from the
freedom of its enquiry, the grandeur of its views, and the
fortitude of its principles, is eminently deserving of atten
''' tioji. By this eulogium, we would by no means he under
:t ' flood to fubferibe to all the principles which these volumes J
a£ contain. Knowledge is not yet arrived at degree of
T eertainty which ts requisite, for any two men to think a
like on alMfubjeas; neither haslangnage attained that con
, fiftcnt accuracy, which can enable them to convey their U|i ,
* thoughts, even when they do thinkalike, in a mannerper- ,
' fedtly correal and intelligibly to both. These difficulties
are onljr to he overcome by a patient, iflceffimt, and bene
volent invetligatien.
" Many of the opinions which this work contains, are
- bold; some of them are novel; and fomedoubtlefsare er
roneous :—but that which ought to endear it even to those
[ whose principles it may offend, is the llrength of argu
' ment adduced in it to prove, that peace and order mod ef
fectually promote the happiness after which political re
formers are panting ; —that as the progre£s of knowledge
is graduaJ, political reform ought n»t to be prficipi&tc;—
and that convulsive violence is dangerous not only to indi
viduals (for that rcfult would Ke of small
account) but to the general cause of truth. It is the op
pofiteof this principle that inspires the enemies of politic
al enquiry with so much terror ; it js the fuppofltion that
change i*,aft inevitably be attended by the turbulence and
iajuftice of commotion; and that innovation cannot be
nude without th< interven - ion <sf eyils more deftru&ive
than those wh'ch are intended to be reformed. Ulider the
cor.vicftion of this philanthropic fentmicnt, of calm and
gradual reform, (which in its proper place he lias fully il
lustrated) Mr. Godwin proceeds without scruple firll to en
quire info .present evil, tSi-il br.xncUes, and .
next to demonstrate future good. .
" Dividing his work into eight books, making rn
JMrORCA.ttCJE.Or fCILJI'ICAL INSTITUTIONS the fubjt-S of
the firll, he begins by an attfmpt to prpye the omnipo- .
tence of government over the moral of mr.rikmd ; J
and that on these moral habits their wisdom, virtue and ~
felicity depend." |
Subscriptions received by the publifhcrs at their j - a
Printing.Oliice, back of No. 77 Dock-street, Philadelphia! ! '
,oj June iS • f jweona
For Sale, fr
l«y A LAROE ILE~»ANT AH» WELL riNISEB ,
Three-story Brick House, t
3r i- (The late residence of General Walter Stwart)
>; — "\T7ITH a LOT «f GROCiTO thereunto Merging, c
tire VV the weft fide of Third-street, near Uiion-ftreet
ngs containing io front 31 feet, and in depth joofeet, to an
igs,, alley leading into Union-street. The house is 2 feetfroflt _
vey and 50 fee't deep ; the several looms containd in it are
, in large, commodious, andconiplctely fipi&cd; Jie two firft
:ry. stories are each 13 feet high; there are i> mahogany T
ray doors in the house ; a geometrical staircase, wth muhoga- f
ilus ny rails and a good Iky-light. The kitchen iin the 1 ell
>nal ar, which is fpacieus and convenient, and finihed with a;i
n. oven, slew-holes and pantries, a servants' bll and large C 1
are wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an
'ays area in which there is a pump. The yard is vaulted.
late Communicating with the said building is a neat l.ree-tlory : u
the brick house, on the north fide of Onion-street contain- n
irds ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; the lower pan of which al
ttle U»t present occupied as a compting-houfe, and tie upper
»w- part divided into well-tinfftied large chambers. Thishouft ol
may at a small expeufe be converted into a , cmvenieni w
zes, dwelling: The flreet door'is very handsome, and:he front
ank and back have Venetian window-lhutters. Adjoining the "
- a lad house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, art creeled a '
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good coacl*
tof house and stables finiflied equal (or nearly so) witi any in P
the the city, on a lot containing on Union tlreet 30 leet, and
task in depth 011 the waft fide of said alley 51 feet. There are a
jm- good cellars under the whole of the buildings, aai a wine h
the room over part of theftable, with a hay-loft ove: there- r '
ob-. mainder. For further particulars enquire of a
EDWARD BOSTSALL k Co.
the At their Office No. 64 Dock-flreet. between Walnut ic Pear V
KU ro [frets. r
the 6th month 24th, 1J96.
and — ———e
bis Philjp Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE, f
; of Soaihong i;
on ; Hyson Skin )
'lis, Young Hyfo* I FRESH TEAS
Ii . Hyson and \
Imperial •* . /
Yellow Nankeens . '
China Ware, alTorted in Boxes and Chcfta
a,e » Quiikfilvcr i
i«if Band*nno Handkerchiefs of excellent qulity in '
"riE ehefts 1
LI- London Market MADEIRA VIN1! 1
tq.l. London particular Vin pipes, bogheads, & ]
sby New-York Market J quarter ia(ks 1
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hoglieads '
Sugar Candy bythe Box
Sail Cans'as Nb. 1 a 8
Lead in lheeis
, 3 Calks of Cutlery assorted
r A few chests of Manckefler Goods, afjtted thick- ,
i«rs feL ®> e ®™»> ftrij>ed Nankeens, -
en- 3 Small packages «f black fewing-filkj
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-teot.
iree Nails aflbrt«4 in calks
' £a. w ,af
! ' To be Sold,
At No. 128, North Second-Strcit, and by fcveral y
i the Apothecaries in this Citv.
TRANSFERS of the right wremove ?•»:•»*•»i
oions from the human jodv, asfecured to I) r i- LISrIA
PERKINS, by patent, with inSliuineni. ,ud direftien' ne
ceifaiy i'>r the practice. This mode ;)i treatment is partieu
larly u'eful in relieving pain;- i<i the head face, tce'h, brcait,
fide, stomach. hack, rhcum'tifms, recent gouts, &c- &e.
NotwithftaiuHing the utility of this praQ.cc it i- not pre- r
lamed but are cases m which this and eveiy ol fcr
iemcd'y may fomctimcs fail. . ab
Jane 18, iaW Sa
\v ar-Office of the United States, f m
May 4th, 1796. ctc
THE following Rules, explanatory of thofc pubiilhed br
the 15th February, 1789, are to be observed by all ha
persons entitled to Lands, in purfuanc® of refolvea ol
Congfefs. J a —■
Every certificate of the acknowledgment or a deed ©r
power of attorney, either before a notary public or other
magiftratc, mud, in addition to wjiat is ufua!, set forth
that the perfan making the acknowledgment is known to - ■
the notary or other magistrate ; for which purpofc words j
of the following import must be inserted in the certificate.
" And I do moreover certify that the said A B making
this acknowledgment has be«n for j»crfoßally
known to me." \
If the notary or ether magistrate has reason to believe
that he is theperfon he rsprcferiti himfelf to be, he wil lci
also certify it.
Andifthe proof be made by a witnefsor wi»nefT'S,hi or
theymuft swear to (afoe general ftateof their knowledge ol
htm, which matter must be set forth in tM* certifies t ; and
the notary public, or other fnagillrate, before whoiji r_g ir!
acknowledgment is made, must also set forth that the wit
tje.s or wltnclTcahas or have been for upwards of
perirnally known to him.
If a justice of the peace is employed, the clsrk of the
court of the corporation or county must cerfify that such
person is a jvfticc of the peace, of the county or corpora
tion as the cafe may be, and that full faith is d.ue to hir
aits as such. JAMtS iVI'H£NK.Y,
Secretary of War '
May u. imvini R
George Dobson, j
BEGS Ujve to ioEornTithe Store-Keep#* in Town and
Country, that he has removed' from (o;
N°* 25, louth Third-flrcet,
where he is opening a Lat«j9,and Elf&nt Aflortmqnt <>f the
undermentioned articles—viz.
Superfine London Cl*ths Kerseymeres,
Yorkfhiic second Do. Do. a
Elastic do. do.
Mix'd and Slue Coatings
Flannells, See.
Manchester Printed CalJicoes,
London Chintz ditto,
p!ueand diit.o Furnicuies, .
India ditto, *
Long Cloths, CofTaes, Baftas, Battillas& Conjeyrems, n
4-4 9-8 s'l & 6 '4 Superfine India Boo.k fyluflins* ft
4-4 ared q-8 India Book Handkcrchicis, ;
4-4 and 9-8 Scutch ditto,
[ 4-4 & 6-4 plain do. Mufliqg,
4-4 & 6 4 British Jaconets,
6-4 Bririlh Checks and Stripes,
4-4 India do. do, do. «
j 4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras <&c. q
A large assortment of figur'd and plain MuQineifj . 1
' Quillings, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
Eancy Waiftcoaiings,
j Ginghams of the hrft Quality, fubjefl to Drawback, *
1 India Nankeens, "
Men'» White m-.d coloured Silk Aockiags.
! May 9 ■ wcoit tj
, For Sale, »•
f A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill, {
' TN New Jersey, near the Fonks of Little Egg-Harbour. p
' A The Grift Millis Cxty by forty feet, two water wheels, -
and calculated for four run of Stones, with screen, fans
and boulting-cloths, &c. Th* Saw-Mill has two faws,and
capable ofcuttingfiveto 6 100 thoufandfeetof Boards per (
year. A valuable piece ef Cedar Swamp, within a mile
and a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
f>t a Landing I'he Lumber, &c. may be takeii by water
from the mill taii.
ALSO FOR SALE,
Several Valuable Tra&s of Land, . ,
Ip Pennlylvania, for all ©f which payment will be receiv- t
in the Botes of MefTri Morris and Nisholfon, or ia t
pafh. .
For further information apply to the Printer.
° May 17. law
" ' \
1 Samuel Richardet, \
ESP'EC TFULLY informs the Gentlemen
. -V Merchants, that he has tliis day opened the CITY J
,1 TAVER.Naud MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
c city yf Phiiadehhia. <
n The Subfcriptipu Room will be furnilhed with all the
1. publiftiedin Philadelphia, N:w-York, Ros
y 1 ton, Baltimore, together with of the principal com-
mercial cities of Europe—Tkoy will be regularly filed
h an< * nciie permitted to be taken away on any account,
°r Tea, Coitce, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
fe Liquors; together with the ul'ual refrefhments,
lt will at all times,be procured at fibe bar.
jj. Gentlemen may depend on accommodated vfritb *
v the choice ft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the wiofi:
approved Malt Liquors iromLondon and breweries. '
Ihe Larder will be supplied with the prime and earliest. <
0 produ&ions of tho Scafon. J
id Large and Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be *
r€ accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Supperi, at
le - hours most convenient to thcmfelves—a cold Collation is
e- regularly kept for conveniency, th« BiUof Fare to be had
at th® bar.
, The Lodgftig Rooms will be'completely furniflied, and
ar tae utmost attention, paid to cleanlincfs, and every other
rpquifite. 1
Samuel Richardet will be happy t® receive, and
* exccute the commands oi his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himJelf that nothing on his. part (hall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been Co diftWuiih .
ijigly honored.
Philadelphia, April -19.
JOHN PAUL JONES.
TNFORMATION is hereby givr.;i, that the late J.hn
1 Paul Tones was a proprietor of £re (hares (amount
ing to about 5867 icrea) in i trait of land purchased by
t! >e Ohio Company, in too territory of the United States
•f America, north-weft of the rivet Ohio ; and that his
heirs, or legal representative, on the direc
. tors of said company,at Marietta in the territory afore
}hid, will receive a deed of the said five lures, or rights
ef land.
The application maybe made pcrfonilly or by an agent,
but proper documents must be produced to prove the
claimant or claimants the legal heirs or representative «f
the feid jones
N.B. As it is not known in what country the person
k- or perfonsintereftedrefide.it will be an ad of benevolence
in every Printer in America and Europe, who (hall insert
thisadvcuifemem in his p,jj;cr.
lu behalf of the dircAori of the Ohio Company,
. . ) RUFUS PUTNAM.
Marietta, May 40,1796. Qurje4j
p
i For S:iie,
A Few Cafe- of l : ir!t
I N D 1 G O.
Enquire at No. 71, South Water Itreec.'
May » tht fti
"fifty dollars reward.
RAN away from the fubl'cri >er living near Chur
Hill. Qu-en \ans County in the State of Mary
about th<; firlt of January last, a black negro man,nam :
Sam,about thirty years of age, 5 feet 8 or 9 inches iji;;ii..
has a crooked finder on one hand, and one leg and to. ■■
fmallcr tkart the other, somewhat round-fhsuicLred, hi-,
cloathing unknovrn. Any who will secure cr
bring said fellow lioms, so that I may get him agnui iha<i
have the above reward withreafonable charges.
, , "■ ■ WII.LI'AM JACOBS.
rnni* 4. "tawim.
Mr. F RAN CIS,
1 (Of the New Theatre)
' r T"'AKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
' X scholars and to the public. Mr. franeis intends,
' on his return from Maryland, to open a public a'ca-
J demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any pramifes ps conducing, his future
1 lchemes on the rifroft liberal and terms, of pro
priety, totally unneceflary.
N. S- Private tuition as ufufl.
J ""Plans of the city ot Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and diftrid .of
Southwark;
Published, and fold bv
BENJAMIN DA'/lES,
f No. 68, High street,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan i* %6 inches fqu»i*e, and has been en
' graved-by one of tte firft artists In the city,' from a Lite
and accurate fnrtcy. Purchasers are'emitted to a pam
phlet with each plan,-giving " foine account of the
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
July 19 ta & f tf
PR OPOSALS
" FOR CARRYING THI ,
Mails of the United States,
On th» following routes, will be received by the Poftmafler
1 at-Savannah, tiacil the firft day of September next.
i. From Savannah by Suiibury to Newport Bridge, once a
week.
Receive the Mail at Savannah everv 'Saturday bv 9 A M r ar
rive atSuiibui-y by 6 P- M. and at Newport Bridge on Sun
day by 10 AM. Returning. Leave Newport Bridge oh Sun
day by 3 P Mi »»d a'rive at. Sunbury in the evening, and at
Savannah on Monday by 6 P M.
3. From Newport Kridgeby Darien and Brunfwick to St.
Mary'si once in two weeks.
the Mail at Newport Bridge every other Sunday
and arrive at St. Mary's th« next vVednefdav bv 5 P <Vl»
Returning. Leavv St. 'MaryVfhe next day, Thursday by 8 A
,M, and arrive a Newport Bridge the nextSjnday by to A M.
Note 1. IF either of the routes are altered by law, during the con
tinuance of the Contracts, the Contrattor is to obfeve such alterationr
[ in carrying the ma.iL anahij pa) is tobe $n(reafed or dimihi/hed. lu
proportion to the dijlsnce encreafed or di,ainifh:d by such alteration
Note 2. The Coutra&s are to be in operation on the'firjl day a)
Oftobf next, and to continue 'for four years until tht 30 1* Septcm
■ ber y t-<Boo, incluftze.
lCne 3, TkePoJi Ma for General may alter the times of arrival
and departure at any time daring the continuance of the Contrasts. he
previously Hipulating <\n adtqu/de caiiipe>iJation for any extra expenjc
that may be apcafioned thereby.
Note 4. Fifteen minutes shall he allowed for opening and dofng
the mail at ali offices where no particular time is [fecifeed.
~~ Note 5. For every hour's delay (.unavoidable accidents excepted)
in arriving after the times pnfen bed in any cent rad, the coiitrathrr
[ball forfeit one dollar And if the delay continue un il depart
it re of any depending mail, whereby -the mmh de(lined for such de»
r. pending mail fha.il Icfeatrip, the contractor j,hall forfeit ten dolio:h
Is, -r-W be deduded from his pay.
n* JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
lc * Poft-Malter Gcneia!.
cr General Post Office,
Philadelphia, June 2s. 17Q&» iaw6w
« Urbanna iYiiU Seats ,
OITUAT£ in Cecil county, Maryland, on the banks#
O the river Sufquehan :a, ali<sut one mile above tide w>-
ter, and commanding the water o£ that important river,
y- the channel conducting th+ trade of which comes so near
in the Mill Seats as to make it convenient to speak the bo»M;
and Mills may be io situated a» to receive them along their
walls, and by water lifts take in tßeir cargoes.
There is a power fuflfi'cicne for many end any kind cf
— ufeful Water aud so much may be jufily said in
commendation of this Scite as \ir<iuid b<s inconvenient to
iixfert in a newfpß.per pahlicatioti*.
» n Those who may deljre to be concerned, will probably
•y find tbemfelves w<ll pleased on viewing the fituati«n.
k e Leases for any term of years may be obtained on appfi
catipn to the living on the premises.
he CLEMENT HOLLYDAT.
jf. April 19. law 3 m
n- —t — '■ — ?
cd Lottery and Broker's Office,
ty N Q 64 South Secouii/lreet,
CS) ' | 'ICKK'I'S in the Canal Lottery No. 11, are now rea
' L dy for sale, a Check B.ok kept for the examinatiaa
t ]j of Tickets, and Prizes paid, without deduction.
jQ- The Suljtfcriher solicits the application of the Public or
es any of his friends who wish to purch.tfe or fell Sank Stock,
Certificates, Bilis of Exchange, or Notes, Houses, Lands,
Lotts or Merchandize of any kind, or to obtain Money
k c on depbfit of property.
at WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
a j I.ate, j4gent for the Canal Lottery Company.
V' Shares an 1 Tickets in the late Newport Long
n[ l Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery examined; a
complete lift of all the prizes having been received at
this office.
od June 6. w&a
jes FOR SALE.
re- \ FOUNT of BREVIER, half worn; about four htfn-
-ZjL dred weight. Enquire at the Office of the Gazette
of the United States, No. 119 Chefnut-ftreet. §
1 w * _____
JOSEPH COOKE,
GOLDSMITH JEWELLER,
l j 1I) The corner of Market and Thi.-d-ftreets, PhiladclpJiia,®
no TV/f OST refpcftfully informs his friends and the public,
XV.IL th.it he has received, per the last arrivals, a com
teg plete and general aflortment of aim oft
Every Article in his Line;
cC " Immediately from the manufa&ures of Landon, Eir
e" mingham, and Sheffield, all of which are of the newcii
" ts fafhion, and will be fold, wholefalc and retail, on the .or. -
ell terms, and the Notes of Mr. Robert Morris, ami Mr.
JohnNicholfon received in payment at their current v-lue
1 ' c N. B. The upper part of the House in which he now
lives to be let, furnifhed or unfuryilhed. law
nee
fcrt PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119 —
CHESNUT-STREET.
' [Prtec. Eight Dollars per &su«ni«}