#a?ette §the Amtell^fatW, & Philadelphia Daily Advert;::,: ..
NeMSMJt 10] ' SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 19, *79 6 - _^2l—
'■■ - ■ i'ii ' " Z_ .. " IT" 1 rr>n cat 1? I "Vu/l Landing.
For Sale,
At Poblic Aufiion, on Saturday, November 19th inft. at
at the Merchants Coffee House, 6 o'clock m the even
ing—
xMfc. the brig FLY,
Virginia built, of the best materials'
sheathed on the ftoeks tp light wa
ter mark, is years old, burthen eighteen hundred
barrels, or there abouts it well found in every refpetft, and
fails remarkable f a ct—is re*dy to receive a' cvrpo immedi
ately. Inventory to be seen at Footman &Co Auction
Toom, on board at South Street wharf, or at No, 5, South
Fourth Street, by - applying to the fubfciiber,
George, Blight.
Terms of payment —approved indorsed notes at 2,. 4,
and 6 months.
Nov. n. $ lw -
FOf' Freight Or Charter
T» Europe or the W.lndies,
Tk« new Brig FAIR'AMERICANi
Richard Galley, Master ; burthen 145 ton »» has
good accommodations, and is now ready to receivc a
cargo:- —apply to the Captain on board, firfl whaif
above the Still-House, Seuthwark, or to
Isaac Harvey, jun.
Who has now for faie, at his store, No. 5, South
Water-street,
A quantity 6( Cayenne and Trinidad Cotton
Spanifli Seal Leather
And a parcel «f Carolina Rice, in whole and half
tierces. nth mo. nth. dlw
For Madeira,
The Jhip Concord
Cast. John Thomson. For freight
JEljiivSS iii?or pafcige apply on board, or to
Peter Blight;
Who has for faie, a quantity of
Brandy, in pipes
Whiting and Copperas, in hogfteads
Old Hock, in cases
Dutch Cream-Cheese, in boxes
Window Glass
Empty Gin-Cases '
Glass Ware, in boxes
Painters' Colours, ground in oil
Sweet Oil, in cases of a dozen bottles each
Hazlenuts, in sacks.
Tiovember 11. dim
Wanted to Charter,
1 jiltSv a f a ft~f aiiin & ve i ei ->
That will carry.; or 600 barrels ; to
ajoi6/fer load immediately for the Weft-Indies-
Apply to
Peter Blight.'
November To. tlx
For Sale. -
The Ship CHARLOT TE»
ft° u t vcflel, about 150 tons bttr
|gr then, wdl found and may be sent to
—sea at a small expence.
Apply to
JoJeph Arithcny and Co.
Nov. 8. dx.
FOR SALE,
1 HE SHIP MART,
ISfW' SAMUEL PARKER, Master, j
Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co. I
If the MART is not fold in ifew days, (he will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
OtSober)!. d
Just arrived, and will this day be lan
ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at Che&iut
Areet -wharf.
25 Tons bejl Rtt/Jia Clean HEMP,
Tons old Sable flat IRON,
*00 Coils best Ruflia CORD AGE, aflWrted fizicj,
400 Pieces brown Ruflia SHEETINGS,
Bolts Ruflia DUCK,
940 Pieces Ravens do.
20 Half-down feather beds, and
A few piecesafforred DI.4PER.
tOR SALE Br
Joseph Anthony and Co.
T ' le a '" sw mentioned BRIG
''' ' B a ewr <kv«. and take freight on
"'"derate terms for Boston or Salem, for
•jHSsHsSßiwK.which or palTage, apply on board or as above
Ofloher 31, r
For Charter,
Z?La The Ship JOHN BULKELT,
Avri« &TOCKL)TY, Master.
. excc^ent Jive-oak and cedar built
of about 3000 barrels burthen.—Ap-
JeJfe & Robert Wain.
Nov. / ~
*'* IT '* " ■' v "' 1
For London,
The Jhip William Ptnn,
J»f'ah, master. Will fail with all
31 - J "=^ MS H fc ceiivei»esit speed. For freight or baffage
*pply to the Captain on board, or to
Jeffe and Robert Wain. j
November 10, j
For Liverpool, ,
Tll « Ship DQMINICK TERRT,
Jacob Deh art, Master.
Has a part of her eargo engaged.— I
For freight or pafFage apply to the tnaf
,er Bn board, at the whar. of the fub
ftribere, or, 1
Jeffe £ff Robert Wain. 1
N "T; .?. ..... . d
For Lisbon,
The Da
nifh barque Bekevevtura,
SamuEL Srus > Master,
A good ve/Tel of about two hundred
*o»s burthen. For freight or paflaee
apply to
JeJJe & Robert Wain.
Nov- 7. d.
For Sale by Public Au£tion,
w On Saturday Evening next, the 19th
at 7 o'clock, if not previously
«f at private faie,
The Brigantine Fame,
Laying at Mr. Samuel Bower's wharf, apd now
>■ ready forfea; aft rang and u*!l built vefTel, aiid calcu
lated either for the European or Weft-India trade, as
i Ihe will carry nearly aOOO barrels—She has been just
i hove down, and may be sent to sea at a small txpence.
- For further particulars, apply to Capt, Knox on board,
1 t6 Samuel Smith, Ship Broker, or
* JOHN CONNELLY, Auflione-r.
November 17. 3*
barter.
»
For Sale, a good flrong built snip, bur
then i3jobarrels, nearly new, well found
can be put to sea as a small expence.
Pjirw».nt will be received in Engiilh or
India good*, or if more agreeable to the*purchafer, 3,
6, and 9 months credit would be given on approved
' notes, for further particulars enquire at No. 8, Soyth
s Water-street, or No. 29 North Tliird-ftreet.
f November 16. . 47*
F° R LONDON >
The capital (hip CERES,
1 09n : —^ or freight or paflage
to DAVY, ROBERTS St Co. »r
'John Vaughan,
f September 10. Frar.t-ftrcct. /. .
This Day will be Landed,
From on board the bi;ig Difpard), Captain P. Bnrm,
from Malaga, at Morris a %i harf, just above the
Drawbridge,
t FRESH FRLtITS, viz.
Raifir.s, in kegs, boxes and baiksti
Figs in kegs
Prunes in boxes
Grapes in jars
Olives in ditto
Lemons in chefls
Anchovies in kegs
Almonds, foft (helled, in frcks
Also,
Brandy in butts
Sweet Mountain Wine in quarter-cafks—&c.
For Sale by
Peter Kuhn.
November 17. §6
THE P artnerfljip of JONATHAN HARVEY & Co,
being this day Diflblved hy mutual consent, tbofeindebt
ed to Otid firm arc requested to make fpeeoly payment to
0 Jonathan Harv«y, who is authorized to receive the fame,
.. and those who have any demands will please to bring in
their accounts to him for settlement
The Bujinejs will be Continued
By Jonathan Harvey,
* AT HIS STOIiK NO. 106, S. FRONT-STREET;
Where he has for Sale,
A general afiortment of Dry Goods.
3 vea:l k er Ui 1796. {tm
An elegant Bay Horse for faie,
Enquire at George Green's Stables, in Pine-street,
between Fourth and Fifthrttreets.
. No». 18. }|iw
To he I*et,
A large cellar, in Walnut-ftreet'jlvft above Fourth-Street, tbat
i& floored with two inch plaok., and will hold upwards of 100
pipes of wme.
) Also, aSlable and Coach-house, that will hold four hor
ses and i-too carriages; and several ilorei .in Fourth Street' —
; Apply to
George Mead-e.
Who has Jor Ja:le y
25 boxes of CafUle soap
Red Lisbon Wine
t A few pipes of bill of exchange wine
A few barrels ot'trifh mess beef
And a few barrels of (hip bread.
Nyv 4 : dist.
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of the (hip Ganges, capt. Tingay, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
consisting or
A Large and general aflortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fne -worked and plain Mujlins,
n Doreas, t3*f. Also,
r A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
e In boxes aad bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings If Francis,
No. ai Penn Street.
June S §
' In the Press,
And will be pnblifhed in a few days by MATHEW
CAREY, at No. ng, Market-street,
An ADDRESS
To the Electors oj the Preft dent of the
United States,
First published in the Gaaette of the United States, in
1 a series ef papers adder the signature of
" A FEDERALIST*"
Containing fonae ftriflures on Mr. Adams's De-
Unce of the American Conftiturions, and on the
EfTays of since published without that
bgnature, in a pamphlet entitled " The pretensions of
Thomas Jelkrlon to the Prefldeney examined, and
the charges against John Adams refuted."
' .NOV. 18. ||
Walhington Lottery.
The 38th and 3Qth days' drawing of the Wafliington
Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office No. j )4 , Mw
ket-ftrcct, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
November 17, 1796. j
1
EMANUEL WALKER,
A'«. 73, South Front Street,
Has for Sale,
30 Hogfhcads tobacc# of Richmond infpeflion.
< *°* do. of Petersburg da.
25 do. do. of Fpederickflmrg do.
So do. 3o« of Alexandria.
NOV ' IS * mwj,f,t.
FOR SALE,
A few hogsheads of choice RUM,
A number of barrels of BEEF, -and PORK,
And a few kegs of EARD, of a superior quality.
Enquire at No. 71, north Water-street.
November 8, 1796.
For Sale.
7 cafcs coarse hats
Copper bottom* and sheets
Shot, all flies, patent and common
Sheet and barr Lead
F.nglilh ihoes and boots in cases
Tin plates ►
Gold watches
Taunton ale in cask«.
Apply to
Simon Walker ,<
124, So. Fourth Street.
Nov. 8. d'4t-
OLD
London Particular Madeira Wine,
In pipes,' hog(heads and quarter-cafits,
Landing this day at Chefnut-llreet Wharf, and
for falc by
Jofepb Anthmy & Co.
Nov. I.
Best Boston & Nova Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbls.
47 bbls. prime Coffee,
Best Boston Beef,
Codfifh in hds.
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 OIL
Northern - j
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior
quality.
A few boxes excellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lilbnn Wine.
A few sacks of leathers.
A few bales India Muslins.
FOR SALE nr
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Odlober 31. d
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATIICART, from Alicant and Lis
bon, landing at the fubfciibers wharf—
28 Pipes of Brandy
x 8 Bales of Spanish wool
3 do. of Annifeed
70110 BuOiels of heft Lisbon Salt
80 Boxes of Lemons
For faie by WILLINGS Jc FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hog-fheadt of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
-cceiverl by the (hip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart,
Prom Kingston.
Sept. 13. d
: — — r ■
Irilh Linens, &c.
'
Imported ptr the Jhipt Glajgou, from Dublin, Liter
tj, from Cori, and biig MMtdr, from Be fcjl,
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In whole and half Ixjxcs, 1
Assorted "from I id. to 4s. fterlipg —Also J- t, wide i
Sheetings, and low priced yarn md worftcd.Hofe.
On Hand,
7-8 Wide Lawns.
IDupers and Table-Cloths
A few'boxcsTickens and Checks
A few bales Flannels
Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, Nos. 1 and 6
15 Boxes } r 6by 8,
10 Ditto s Window Glass, s 7 by 9,
S Ditto 3 ( 8 by 10 .
The above mentioned Goods arc all entitled to the
drawback, and will be disposed of by the package ®n
reasonable terms.
James, Clibborn & English,
No. 6, N. front-ftreet.
loth mo. 19th. dtf
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
, Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, (ituate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almoU new,
on an entirely original couflruaion, and built of the bed
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
who with to purchase, arc requested to apply at No. 270,
South Second Street. September 13. ttf tt
1 -
Imported in the iate drrii< tit from Europe end the
(Vejl- Indies,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique Molaff.s, h, hogsheads
( hoice old Lisbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-caflts
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
ID h a 'f-p'pes and quarter-caCts
Ma!mf»y Madeira Wine, in pipes and quarter-caflca
1 enerine Wine, in pipes
Russia & Flctnifh Sheeting and Ravens Du ( -k, in eases
Window Glass, 3 by io, in bo-xes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in calks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
A few chests of Bohea Tea ; Jcfuits Bark ; Aflafos
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of Collies,
Battas, G urrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Ilaudker
chiefs, and a complete afiortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Boulting Cloths. *
For Sale by
Pragers & Co.
oa ° h " 10 dawm&tbim
T he Elephant
IS RETURNED PROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refneflfully informed, that
> t^l * animal is to be leen every day, from 8
o'clock i» the morning till fun down, in Market-
Ttreet, No. ie6, south fide, between Third and
rourih-ftieets,
Admit:ancz a quarter cf a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
! (^e feqweft of many persons it will be
exhibited on evenings from five to eight o'clock.
« half a dollar er.ch—The ,00m will be well
lighted.
November 7.
Jufl Landing,
And for Sale, a quantity of
BOURDEAUX BRANDY,
FROM Oil board the fchooaer Lyffia & Polly, Oliver
Jenkln< matter, lying at Wilcock's wharf. Fsr
terms, inquire on board said schooner.
Nftvrmber T rrh. y rw
For Sa}e by John J. Parry,
A r o. 38, S. Second vrtr Cbtfrmi-ftrtrt,
A few excellent GOLD WATCHES,
From Forty to One Hundred Dollars,
And SILVER WATCHES,
Of various prices—all warranted.
An iflortment of Chains, Seals, Keys, and Trinlcrts,
Eight Day Clocks supplied. and Clocks & Watchos
repaired with dispatch and great care.
Best Watch Glafles 'by the groee.
November 11. tgf&ss^r
" FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marftt
and Beech Creeks, Mioin county, Pennsylvania, in
four fcparate Patents. For terms ot sale apply to
Wm. Blackbtirn,
No. £4, Sauth S'cond-ftreet.
October 31. mwftf
Just Landing,
At South flreet wharf, from cn board the /hip Sctfy f
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peterfiurg,
The following Goods:
Russia Sail Duck, firft qu»Uty-
Do. Sheeting do.
; Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do, Crash.
Do. Mou'd Candles, 4, 5 and 6, »o the lb. of the
English file.
Do. "White Candle Tallow.
Do- White Soap in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of Gac yarn.
Ravens Duck.
IfingUf., ill and fprt.
Horse Hair uncurlcd.
Ruflia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Kods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. f eterfhurg Clean Hemp;
For Sale by
Philips, Crainorkl, & Gs.
-Ofl»ber i». -J
Fashionable W/hstcoating.
GEORGE DOB SON, No- 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received per thr D'mnn, from London,
Clouded and flripcd Spatiiih Swanfdown
Clouded Erminits and Moleikins
Striped do. and da.
Figured Manillas
. Scarlet figured Erihintts
Printed Florinetts
Do. Caflinets and Cafiimeres
Superfine printed Quiltings, neweTl patterns
Also, pier different arrivals, , - '
A large and general assortment of Dry
' Goods,
Suitable to the prrfent and approving feaforj.
November 5. djf
LAND TN G,
Out of different -vejfelt from England, and for fate
by the fubjeribers on reasonable terms,
Superfine and common cloths, and caiTimers
Ribbed anj ftrip'ed do. do.
: Blankets , mottled green and silk rugs.
Superfine blue, Claret, and c»mmon coatings,
Kerseys, Bear-skins, plains and Halfthicks,
■ Swanlkins, Serges and Flannels,
1 Britilh Ingrain Carpeting,
Hats allotted in cases of 12 doz. each.
Chocolate chintzes, printed Callicoes and Handkerchiefs.
< Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
Yarn, Worded, and Cotton hosiery,
. Beavers, Thickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. &c.
Buff and drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality.
6d. Bd. iod. lad. ood. nails, and frying pans,
C of Ironmongery, Gutlery and a variety
♦ of India cotton, and silk g*<jds.
, Thomas fcsf JoJhita Fijher.
.„ , , , No - S, Dock-fttreet.
Alio by the Glasgow from Dublin,
t-8 and 4-4 Irilh Linens assorted in boxes of 30 pieces.
do. Brown, Glaxed Linnen.
f 0A • 17- dtf.
For Sale,
A Three-story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
XX ilreet, between Front and Second Ilreets, in which
3 f- J am es Calbraith & Co. have for matiy years (and
flow do J carried on business.
' Poffeilion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
.. HECTOR CALBRAITH.
, A P nl lu §
For Sale,
By Jehu Hollinghoorth, & Co.
#5 hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof
5 Barrels best Indigo, and,
A few thousand bulhels of Turk's Island fait
oa._i7. "•
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER Cs.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from 12 inch cables down
to rope of a inches, of diffeiwt lengths i Imported ia
the ihip Swift, ,'rom Hull, and entitled to drawback
Scpt - dtf'
Benjamin and Jacob Johnson,
No. 147, Market-street,
Have received by the fc aß Liverpool and
«r »r Wr7 , qffortment'cf DRT GOODS,
Well fmted to the approaching season, which they will
fell on the lsweft terms by the piece or packare
O<ftobrri4. ® *
■ ' ta\V4w
City Dancing Aflembly.
The firft AlTembly will be held on Tfcnrlday next
! 7 th November, at Oellers's Hotel. X the
Nov 14 ®y order of the Managers.Pantheon,
AND RICKETTS'j AMPHITHEATRE,
For Equestrian and Stacs Performance s }
\ Cower of Chtfnut and Stxth-flreets
T HIS EVENING, Saturday, November 19,
Will be piefented,
A variety of Entertainments.
Ground arid Lofty Tumbling,
By Mr. Sully, Mr. F. Ricketts, Mailer Franklin and
Master Hutchinsj
In which will be introduced, for the 2nd time,
The Force of Hercules,
By Mr. Franklin, a performance never before it
tempted by any in America.
Horsemanship,
by Mr, Ricketts, Mr. F. Ricketts, Mr. Franklm,
Master Franklin, Master Hutchins, the Yotfng
.American, and Mrs. Spinacuta.
Clown to the Horfemanltiip, Mr. Sully.
A new Ballet Dance,
Under.the direction of Mr. Derang,
called
The BACK COUNTRYMEN;
Or, the New Settlers.
Mr. Franklin and Mr. F. Ricketts will ride three
horses in full speed, carrying Mr. Ricketts on their
ftioulders, a Pyramid never attempted by any pcrfom
"before.
The whole to conclude with
A Comic Pantomime, called
HARLEQUIN FOUNDLING.
Mr. RICKETTS takes this opportunity of inform
ing the Ladies and Gentlemen who attend the R : ding-
Sehool, that ht has, at considerable expense, engaged
Mr . Franklin, to give lessons in the art of riding and
tnanaging Hsrfes, as he finds it impossible to attend to
it himfelf, in eonfequence of a variety of business
which he is atprefent engaged in.
*«* The Ladies and Gentlemen who secure Seatsi 3
the day time, are requefled to attend punflttally at , r
as the performances a're so arranged as to conclude!* 1
JO o'clock—the doors will open at 6. a
0" Box, 7s. 6d.—»Pit, 3s. <jd. a
Tickets to be had cf Mr. Ford, at the ticket office in P
Chefnut-flriet, from ten to three o'clock each day. I
v & Silver Tickets, to admit for the season, to be had 1<
by applying to Mr. P icketts at the Pantheon, or at Oel- b
lers's Hotel. P
Days of Performance to be Monday, Wednes
day. Thurfdsy and Saturday. b
' ii
T O L E T, B
From this day, to the twenty-eighth of April, 1797, ~
A commodious house in South Second-street, No. 133,
lietr George Hunter*, apothecary, well calcalated cither
Sos a lodging house, a ftoreor a shop.
_ Nov. 16. r j t F
SALT PET RE.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for Sl
sale No. 15, Sou#i Third-street.
November 5. M
—— Dl
-10 hogsheads St. Croix Rum, I 1
j Pipes Vinegar, Ej
For Sale, by Dj
Ezekiel Hall, Fo
No. 20, Penn Street.
Nov. f. Fo
j— — __ Qi
Wm. Holdernesse, Ko. 76, co
HIGH-STREET) Di
Has received by the late arrivals,
A IV '-{l SeleSed A & sour mknt gf '
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and M
Haberdashery Goods, J ink
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, en the verv
lo»eft terms; 7
Amongjl which are of,
Some elegant 4-4 ind 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new rh ,
patterns tn<^
'Ditto Furniture ditto r e
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslins per
Ditto in Gold and Silver J
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine '°
Mantuas of the firft quality ?
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, aflorted /,
Irish Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
MarfeilUs and Cotton Counterpanes J
Rose Blankets assorted— &c. &c. 1
October 16. j
-—- " of J
A few Pipes of WINE, Bvo
Imported in the brig FAME, from Madeira, to be fold —
t>y MORDECAI LEWIS,
Who has also to Jifpofe of on reasonable terms, „
IRISH LINENS, well assorted !
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS ?
WIDE NANKEENS • P?
COSSAS AND BAFTAS '?' F
RAVENS DUCK ch , a .'
DIAPERS wh ;
QUICK SILVER J
CHINA
ROLL BRIMSTONE, kc. \
°'' er *7- tawrm —
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, High-ft rent, R
The American Repository of ufeful Frie
information, for 1797.
CONTAINING,
A Calendar for the year
A complete Register of the Executive, Legislative, A
and Judicary Officers of the General Government. mat,
A Lilt of the Military Forces of the United States. Fa l>
Poll-Office Establishment—times of receiving and ttiin
tlofingthe Mails at Philadelphia. pun,
The post roads and towns, and their diflair- es
Times of holding the i'preme, Circuit and Diftrifl
Courts.
A table of Impost duties, alphabetically arranged.
A lift of the custom-house officers and their fees. <-
Rules for reducing the currencies of the lever a 1 r PI
slates into one another, and all of them into the mo- ,°u '
nty cf the United States. ®
Ufefnl tables of the value of pounds, Ihillings and
pence, in dollars and cents. „
A rcgifter of the&nicersof the civil governmimt of u
Pennsylvania. „
A gardiner's calendar for Pennsylvania. tfck-
And a great variety of other articles of ufefHl informa- '• Ai
tion. Embellished with twelve elegant vignettes, an en- the I
graved title-page and frontUpiece.—raaking together, a and
handsome, as well as very ufeful, little pocket companion, me"
Oflober jo. 1 3awlf
The brig Weil-Indian's Cargo
Will be Landed on Monday morning,
tS ' The 7. \JI inflant,
At South-street Wharf,
From the North fide ef "Jamaica.
19' I*o Hogfnctds and one barrel Coffie
13 Hoglheads of Sugar
lOJ Hoglheads hijli proof Rum. ;
For Sale by . 1
, ' PETER blight.
and November 19.
u ~ PROPOSALS, ;
By WILLIAM COBBETT, opposite Christ Church, Phi- t
c la<ielphia, for publiflling by fubfeription, r
ADAMS'S
Defence of the American Conflitutions. 1
Jlln j CONDITIONS: f
I. The work shall be printed ou Engliih wove-psper, page
for page, from the bed London Edition; of course it '
•vyi:l be comprized in three large o<2avo volumes. u
II For the three bound in board*, the price to j t
fubfcriber6 is tt be Only four dollars, and to nen-lubfcri- I y
bers, five dollars and a half. I
111. The fubferipeion shall remain open for ten days, and I
i if an encouraging number of fubfciiber.are obtained in j ''
that time, the publifhcr engages to have the work ready j n
, for delivery in fix weeks from the present date.
, r \ e Ijth November, 179*. j
* elr N. B. Subfcriptiens are t; ken by the principal bookfel- I ,
'sons j er> Q f Philadelphia aud New York
The fubferibers ts the Hiflory of Jacobinism are res- |
peiftfully informed, that it will be ready for delivery i E
early next week. I j ri
Nov. 16. §x.
JOHN MARKLAND, *
Igfd Printer, Bookfellcr, and Statiener, ra
and No. 91, Smith Front Street, I aj
d to received by the laftarrivals from London, an alTort- I d;
ness ment of Stationary, which he will fell on the moll If„
reasonable terms, confining of— w
A great variety of copper-plate printing paper, from I
:si 3J hy 47 inches to the fmalteft size ; fuperfine, impe- ar
t , rial, super-royal, royal, medium, demy, folio, and I
:h quarto post, foolfcap and poll writing paper ; marble j
and blowing paper, large and small meflage cards, sand {
and pounce boxes, Ihining sand, ink and ink-powder, J
ein pencils, quills, crown, half crown, and common fizc I
Irish wafers, coloured and red; India rubber, pen-knives
had lead and pewter ink-Hands, do. chells, cork soles, copy
)el- books, llates and pencils, Entick's dictionary, Watts' I ho
psalms, &c. f el
lef- Also, Come elegant prints, an afiortment of blank- j t [ )(
books, American manufactured writing paper, do.play r
— ii:g cards of a superior quality j and a collection of e
BOOKS, London and American editions. _
Nov. u. ,
i 3, W. Young, Mills, and Son. j C Z.
Have for Sale, a large afTortment of ny
PRINTING and WRITING PAPERS ve<
Which will include 500 reams of fine demy wove print- Jex 1
Ing paper, we
imperial Folio and Quarto Post, gilt J boi
for Super-Royai Small Fol.o Post, plain, L or
Royal Ditto gilt I
Medium iloflom paper assorted j r
Demy Transparent Folio Post I 0
rhic)t post in folio Sup.finc&common Foolscap J ant
Ditto in 4to Marbled papers j betl
Extia large folio Pest COARSE PAPERS. I
Ditto 4to London brown assorted I 1
Folio Post wove Log-bock paper P
Qr.artoditto Hatters'paper I rt "P
Folio wove poll limed ftainers' paper I leg
_ Quarto^ ditto do. Common brown ! pjv
Ditto gilt do. Patent sheathing paper I VPr
Common size Folio Post Bonnet boards
Ditto quarto plain Bookbinders'boards. ma
ALSO, j i
] A variety of other Stationary Articles : j co "
, Viz Wedgwood and glass philosophical Inkfhnds, well
u assorted, pewter ink-ehefts of various sizes, round pewter |
ink-stands. paper, brass and pohfhed leather ink-stands for the
the pocket, fhinisg sand and sand boxes, pounce ans
7 and pounce boxes, ink and ink-powder, black leather and
red morocco pocket books with and without inSruments W 'j
of vaiious sizes, counting-house a»d pocket pin-knives of
w the best quality, ass-skin tablet and memorandum books, j" m
red and coloured wafers, common size office do. quills' fait,
from half a dollar to three dollars per hnndred, black lead
pencils, mathematical instruments, &e. &c. I f
All f»rts and sizes of b'lank-books ready made or made '
to orner, bank checks, blank bills of exchange, and notes f
o. hand executed in copper-plates, bills of lading, manifefts. a "d
feanian s artielesandjournals, &c. &c. 1 l, av ,
A well fcleited collection of miscellaneous books. Also ~Y,
of Greek Latin, and Englifl, Classics, as are now in uft J ,\
in the colleges and schools cf the United States. P a '
W. Young, Mills, & Son have jnft published in one I
large volume 12 mo. Sheridan's Di&ionary for the use I port
_of lchools, 1 50-100 dellars—Alio the fame work large will
Bvo. price three dellars.
Nov. 6. . I a P a
: ta^3w - I ce ss„
Walhington Lottery. fl/^,
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may bepurchafed or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. .47, Chefnut-
Kreet where a corre<ft Numerical Book is kept for rubli: moti
mfpeaion. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or mo „
changedll°r prizes d' awn in the Washington Lottery, of
which the 38th and 39th days returns are received. , f
Th» Business of a Broker carried on as usual, 1 Wlil "
.* A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be fold ul <e
on reasonable terms. J txc :.
November 17. f^,r I
' ttst ' cont
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South FourthJlrect, I bout
RE TURNS his grateful acknowledgments to jjj. the 1
| Friends and the Public for th.ir liberal encouragement, latio
and begs leave to 1.1.ct a continuance oi their favors. D , ()r ,
He has on hand an extcnfive afiortment of the I .
Mojl Fajhionable GOODS, J
And of the best quality, suitable for the season. I *
, At this shop Gentlemen can be furnished with the best 4T!
™" erial '' and haT,: thcm made up in the neatcft and mod H
• V ~°, n u manßcr - an<J ° n tlie fiorttft notice—He will i r "£"
1 thnnklu ly receive any orders, and.pay a prompt an,! iefls
punAual attention to them. {
November to. r 1
t M —
7V . . No - >53- i rejl i
. D, J tr of Pennjytvania, to iv t. I I her
BE ,t remembered, that on the twenty-fourth'day ef mav
I f P .fc m^ r ' '1 C Uvtnt T- firft y«r of the independence , r J,
of the United States of America, Willian PnKli. ~«r I
the said diftria hath deposited in this effue the Title of pe<a
I r ,' ght whereof he as pro^:« or , in rcfc "
1 the worn, following, to wit. ' ' W 2S
r,, " r , rhe I '° l, . tlc f l Cenr< "". or Review of the mod inte- erme
reftii g political occurrence* relative to the United States h
«of Anicr.ca-By Peter Porcupine"_l„ conformhy to U "
•'• An Aftlr ,V K r ni,M St3t ". filed ,ri
■ ras £
: Ster-- *
Djftrift Pennfclvanii I *
F*r the GazeTis or lai UrciTtD Statii.
5' —
Ass. Ftuno,
AS your paper is conlidered all thro' America at
a found federal paper, and the rallying point of the
friends of thcconllitution and of good government,
your subscribers must view with pain any attempts
by the concealed enemies of both constitution and
'• good government, to injure its circulation, bjr ma
king it a vehicle of publications, difjufting to all
good federalifts. ' There are unfortunately papers
enough already, well disposed and «ager to diffemi-
Phi- naie pernicious sentiments and to poison the public
mind }in God's name, ,let the good federalifts have
one paper, free from disorganizing do&rines, let
! j < them have one repository for the fupportersof good
government. These sentiments have been drawn
forth by feeing a great many columns of your tru
■fe it 'y valuable paper Huffed, at this interedisg crisis of
our affairs, with calumnies against that virtuous pa
e 'p I triot, jfthn /Mams, by a writer, disguising himfelf
lcr '" j under the name of a federalijl, in order to excite
•'ad I ittcn, ' on among your readers, a trick, proceeding
:J in I f rom his consciousness that his writings alone would
eadjr I not merit.it. • 1 1
I Are iot the antifeJeralifls fatisfieJ with one pa- ;
I per ? Tliey have Bachit at their command, and .
have filled that for weeks past with their {lander. 1
res- j Wfjpt right have they to poach on federal ground ? I
rery j Be pfTured that this pretended federalilt is an enemy t
\in disguise, who is wire-drawing long, fophiilrcated 1
pieces, merely to tttclude the friends of Mr. Adams j
I from your paper, and to disgust your subscribers.
Are rot these very pieces republilhed'in the Auro- r
jra ? Does the slvrora publity with liberality, abuse f
against Mr. Jefferfon, or panegyrlcks on Mr. A- i
art- dams ? No—that paper is devoted altogether to qne fc
10 ft J fide—what -right have the antis to both papers, I:
when the frderalifis have only one ? These things h
are recommended to your serious consideration, by p
Li ; THOUSANDS. t
blc j ™ 11 o
| nd j sO» THt «UITTE OF THE UNITED StAT£S> C '
: er > 1 _ c
PHOCION—No. XXIV.
ipy ABOUT the beginning «f the year 1791, the f
its' house of representatives of the United States, re- lr
ferred !o the secretary of (late, a representation of w
I legiflatureof Malfachufetts on the (lecayt*tl [late u
0 f ®f the cod and tuhale JjJhenes. The object of the
reference was to eaufe an enquiry into the real (late ?
of the fifteriw, and to revive from the secretary, "
some plan of legislative aid. The representation . (
complained " that the fidieries laboured under ma- K '
ny and heavy embarraffmen's, which, if not remo- a . r
S ved or lessened, would render thrm every year lass
it- extensive and important, that these embarraflments
I weie, heavy duties on their produce abtoad, and
ilt bounties on that of their competitors, and duties at *»'
home on several articles, particularly used in the fifli- tC ,
j etics, and it asked* that those duties might be taken T
I off, that bounties might be given to the filhermen, .
apt and the national influtnee liftd abroad for •btaining
I letter markets for their produce." "
j Ihe course to be pursued by the secretary was
plain and simple—to inquire into the truth of the , C
I representation, and if tiue, to report some system of .' e
Initiative aid, either by taking off the duties, or y
j g' v '"g bounties, or using the influence of the go
j vernment with foreign nations, to procure better
I markets, or all of these measures. dij
But instead of following this direst and obvious or
: , c °" rfe > he be g iH » with a long, tedious, and pedantic nic
U | h'ftory of the discovery of Newfoundland by the B u
er Calsts, as far back as the year 1519, and a detail of ou
or the fifhing adventures of the Basques and Biscay- .ou
ui I aRC ' ~^ ai Bretons, more than two centuries ago,
'« Wl ' h lhe r 'k and progress of the French, Spauifh, ,n 3
and Portuguese fifheries, from the year 1519, to the fe "
5 ' rep ° rt ' aII of whicll > tW no doubt
Is \ faithfully copied from booh of ;.ufhority, were as h "
' I """"welling to the impatient filhermen, as they were
e useless to congress. poi
5 tortl)nn E the patience of the lioufe Th
Sj . and the feelings of the filhermen, he might at lead 0r
have concluded with recommending fomethinrr pre- on
L' "j'\ P ra ft<cab!e andeJfeSual But, after oil his lym- an
pathetic lamentations about the deplorable flateof Ed
e the flmermen, and his fettled conviflion of the im- P le
e portancc of the cod fifbiry, what docs he conclude wel
e with recommendmg ?—'• thatjf,® might conftiture ? ou
a part of the military rations, and a part of the ne- J cfi
" " ar 7 sea Jlcres of vcjfels, and that privat-e individu- afte
alt might be enaouraged to let the fifherman (hare
r in ihefuf P r,es of the Ht,i
- U'y for, ad3s he, •« a liabit, introduced Ilo m con
: motive of patnotifm, would fpon be followed from to 1
• motives of taftc.'" Having made this notable dif , fer f
co-very to save the filhenes fiom ruin, he exclaims f thc
wuh patriotic enthufiafrn, «« and who will under- fat! <
1 etVA u mit ' ,0 th ' S demand ' if " ab °
cued, with a nation, which doubles, a >.d will long
contißue to double, at very fliort periods ccrr
Ihe fccietaiy might have his argu- i
men' very considerably, if |, e had had all hi. wits a- ,hc
u im at the time ;he might have {hewn that Bril
tar ® a ' ,n g filh would have promoted popu P en
' peoDteThe 3 ' n°k C was con^urnu 'd, the more
people there would be to eat fifh, and thus by a hap. ««<
m, fin ss "'? o " ° f Cause a ' ul effe<a » the confu- ll »e]
men. of hfii at home would continue to increase in '
a compound ratio. j n p
Having hit upon this very notablefuljlitute for fs- bcirl
1 L p " overfll « ht| y lhemain
ha l> ' ' 'th tn V ; mCn Had Vicw ' and faV °
had been the efential points of the reference ■ in ,f P f
e / CC ' i°/' mer ely obierves, '• that it will
7 f u m y 't c!e^Uure vvhc
')» a »d which of the naval and sther duties anc *
may t remitted, or an equivalent given to the fi{h
form °f a diawback or bounty ;in res- "f I
P o at •wbuh ivasthe mofl material pait of the t ' c ' a
"r-r™' tu ' ,rft
, o the wisdom of congress. 'Ilhc fifh: be E a
ermen pray that heavy duties may be taken "off 'or B ' »
&Tr 0r bm ". procured abroad "the
thrr ' r ' eretar y»'nflead of retorting whe- !natt
ther any and what duties ought to be i.K prev
what would be the effefl of (o doing, al it concc ° r J' mifir
* r.ge 7, tCf.rt, ~ '
.thej
ply tl»f dcficicnav, whether It -v M cnnftlt ,
gran coupes, and if f ( ,, whether it w.uld L' *
peaiant, we might negotiate w '''**
obtain better ri*e;», , Toids a) 1 ««»
ica a» pics of governmental interpoiition a „d aid "
f the gravely recommend, that, which the trover.',,
nent, could not meddle -with, to convert all the n,„
mpts the United States into Ichthyophavites «, P" °
and JiJb. The fiftermen pray for fomc tegij al ; v ,}%£
r ma- to preterve them from rum—conerefj.efrr.i.
to all tinon to the secretary-he acknowledges tha'X
3 per' will be ruined without some immediate I
Fetni- aid, and yet instead of recommending an/; r " C
üblic congrcfs, that if individual, in the Un- Vs"™ 18
have can be eneouraged to eat fifh, from patriot J°£
i, let as the nation doubles in fliort periods, the d e '
good at home must in progress of time be
rawn Congref,, however, wifely conceiting, ?| lat '
tru- learned anecdotes about the Bafoues, Bi?cav a „ o j
[is of Bas-Bretons, and the didant profpeft of' a
3 pa- domeitic consumption, from a future •dou'-'m'^f
nfelf our population, were but f iamy mean, of
Kite for the poor ftamng fifhermen j dev.fed some im
ding mediate rchef, which tho' promi/kg, f rcm , hc '
ould information, to be cheap and effectual, was, under"
? Tu C9 f f Un "f w armly opposed, in
' P 3 : a c Hcb ( a,C 0f^ f " ! "«« friends of ' lie .
and Secretary. This oppofmon at once, accounted f„ r
der the Secretary s cant,on .« evadifcg the pom(J refer .
nd ? red to h.m by congref., and urg, ng wilh an ass
temy ted zeal for the welfare of the filheries. that which
atcd he knew to be as delusive, as it was ridiculous and
ams pueule.
•era. The foregoing ftriflures apply to that part of the
uro- report which relates to the codffbery. When the
jufe secretary comcs to treat of the whale fifhc n \
A- it furnifiles hiir. with some materials whercofr'tj
<}ne build his favorite fyftern of hottility towards En r
ers, land, and partiality for France, (from whence he
ngs had returned but the preceding year) he is more
by particular and decided in his recommendation. As
ter Hating,' that the remiflion of duties would fUnd'
on the fume ground as in refpefl to the Codfifierv
that is, resting on the ivifdom of congress, he pro
cceds to the fubjeft of foreign markets, and informs '
con;refs, that France is the only mar let for our
thc common oils ; that, although there was an i„t, re /l
re . tf, at country soliciting the exc/ufon »f cur oil,, vet
: of we might hope, t,hat the government of Fr'snce
jte would view us, not rivals, hut as cooperaters a.
the S a '"lft * common rival ; and that friendly arrange.
ate ments with France would long fecuie to us this re.
source- Full of this ohjefl, so near h/s heart, h s
[ on ' then Elates from the fubjeft of the fifhcrie#Jr{|£
M . gather, to make a pompous statement of tKi great
amount of our general exports of American prft
sf.g duAion* to that country—a statement which fubfe
nts q uent information (hewed to be extremely fallacious.
nd tben ® alcfi ' " 'he market for th»
as greater part of our fpcrimca:ti oil; but, to conn.
teraft this circumllance, adds, "that the tenure by ,
which we hold the admiflion of this commodity in
>n their markets, is as precarious as it is hard j" -tho'
' in truth, in was, at Jeaft, as likely to be durable,
' o as the tenure by which, from his own account, we*
hold the admilfion into the French market, wheie
he had Rated, " that there was i particular (and,
he might have added, a powerful J interfl perpctudl
or h soliciting the exclujion of our tils."
a . Growing (till warmer on his favorite topic, lie
er adds, " Nor can it be announced, that there it my
dijpofition on thc part of England to arrange this
us °f an V ot her commercial matttfr, to mutual conve
tie nience ; the ex parte regulations which they have be
be B un > f° r mounting their navigation on the tuin of
of our's, can only be uppufrii by counter o<>
, our part."
Howevef reluctant thc secretary had been to give
|, ( any positive advice to congress, refpeds'ig the t{-
)e feutial aid which the cod-fifhery required, content- '
j,, ine himfelf with leaving that to their wisdom ; vet,
as here, his zeal for counter regulations againfl Great
re Britain, overcomes his diffidence, and lie plainly and
pointedly advises decisive and important measures.
f e Though evidently indifferent about Ihe prnfperity
ft or distress of the fifiiermcn, yet he is ready tofeize
on the intereftsand paflionsof the New Englardeu,
and embody them-on his fide, against thfir fappof
ed enemy, Great-Britain. But these prudent peo
i. p' e > too wile to be caught in such a snare, and too
| e well acquainted with the true interests of their
e country, were almofl unanimouHy opposed to Mr.
[, Jefferfon's plan of counter-regulations, which he
afterwards more fully developed, when cirtumftan
e cc ® prf-mifed a more fuccefsful refnlt. It wa-i not a
' Jt little surprising that he he (hould, thus early, Jiave
n complained of the disinclination of Great Brilain .
n to meet us in comm.'rcial arrangements. Mr
ferfon had not been many months in office under
the new government, which was then but in its in
.. fancy, and it was known that Great-Britain was
e about to fend a this country, who in
g deed arrived here within a few months after this
complaint.
Anxious as was the secretary, thus early, to sow
the feeds of commercial hostility againlt Great
t Britain, some fails incautioufiy escaped from hi*
pen, in this leport, of so unfavourable a complec
e tion t» France, he took special care, in his
. commercial report, to pass them by in silence, tho'
. they were full as relevant t* the fuhjeCl, as ihofe
n be then detailed refpefting the rival nation. Thus,
jn page 5, he fays, " the navigation of France, from
. being the most economical, was become the mofex
- penjivt of ar,y nation." This is the navigation, in
1 favour of which, he recommends in his commercial
1 report, the excltifion of British vessels. In the
| fame page he tslls 01, that, though the filhcjits of
. 'be United States were annihilated during the war,
5 and their markers in the Mediterranean and Brit/11
. America lolt, yet their produce wis dutiedin thee
. °f France. In page 9, he tells us, that, at this ci:-
. ticlal time, when the filhermen of the United States,
t left without r?fource by the fofs of their markets,
; began to think of accepting an invitation from 0.
. Britain, and removing, fonee to Nova-Scoua, and
I others to England, the government of France, not
inattentive to these proceedings, endeavoured to
prevent this emigration of our filhermen, by pro
mising, that our friends in France «*jgu!d do fcace
thing f#r them ; but that, irftead of doing any
thing ro induce them to ilay in the United States,,
the government of France, injidioujly, and contrarylo the sfrtfltei and intenaon of the generous La Pay
ttte, Jeduced our fifhcrmea to go and fettle in Dun
kirk, by offering them a bounty of ten dollars a
ion on their veffcls, besides other advantages. In
page to, he tells us, that soon after this plan of
iiedudtion, France (hut her ports to all foreign fi(h
oils—an exeluGon which falfied our Jifhery ; thai
they afterwards opened their ports to the produce
of our whale fiftierie,, continuing however their en
deavours to recover a (hare id this fifhery themselves,
by the aid of our JiJhermen, having then one hundred
and fifty American, on board the seventeen Frcnch
vessels employed in both fiftwries.
There is one furthet remark which prefentsitfelf
•n examining this report.—ln dating the disadvan
tages which would attend our loss of the fifheries,
the secretary mentions, the injury to our naviga
iion, and the confeqtient dependence on the car
riage of other nations: "We (hould lose," fays he,
" during an European war, the cairiage for belli
gerent powers, which the neutrality of onr flag
would render an incalculable fourcc of profitand
yet, in this very report, he advises hostile measures
—yet, in his commercial report, he repeats this
advice with greater zeal, and in his general politi
cal conduct, he has been always promoting mea
sures, the unequivocal objeA of which was, to en
lifi us on the fide of France during the present war,
and thus compel us to relinquish the neutrality of
oar flag, this incalculable source of profit to the Uni
ted State,. PHOCION.
Philadelphia,
SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 19,1796.
Died, at Burlington, Vermont, of a lingering
eomplaint, Mr. Democratic Sociitv aged three
years.
*/ "The Federalist," No. VII. omitted this
day for want of room, (hall appear on Monday. 1
Extra# of a letter from Meflrs. John Sulkeley & Son
I of Lisbon, dated 14th September, 1796, to a mer- !
chant in this city.
" Refpeftirg politics, the late apprehensions of a
war between England and Spain are diminiOied, the
latter having taken off the embargo on the British
packett, and these are to continue to fail in turns as
tifual, our court is continuing to arrange matters with ;
the French Republic, and a general Peace is thought to (
be negociating—Flour 8 Mille per barrel.
Extradl of a letter from a refpe&able house in Lon- '
don, dated Bth Gdlober, 1796, to a merchant in |
this city. ' ,
19 The Directory of France bave granted a passport (
t® enable our government t<- treat for peare—it is high ,
time a (top (hould be put to the effufion of blood. It 1
is the general opinion that there will be a war between
Spain asd this country ; both kingdoms have laid
embargoes upon the veffcls of each other in their ports. '
One of our frigates, the Sea Horse, has captured two c
rich Spanifli (hips and brought them into Cork; we a
have a letter to day mentioning that 150,000!. in f
specie has been taken out of one of tbem, and that it
>« imagined the other has eonfiderably more, exclu- r
five of the value of their cargoes.
•' English Wheat 55 to 6cs. per quarter of 8 bu(hels '
—last wock it was 3s. dearer." si
P
BY THIS DAY's MAILS. «
NEW-YORK, November 18.
[The following is from the Argus.] ''
By Capt. Harris we received our regular file of at
the Morning Port, to the 10th October incluftre <r;
from which we hasten to abffraft the following im- im
portant articles— •
Army of the Sambre and Mtuft.
) That in their retreat, they did not lofc more than fa
6,000 men, in killed, wounded, priloncis, sick, tl^
and desertions, had a reinforcement of 16 to 18,000 ol
men, made a (land at Neuwied, and Sieg, after' ctj
crossing it. That from the i6ih to the 23d Sep- m
tember, there were continual fightings, with al- hi
ternate success.
That the French re-crofled the Sire, and ad- b<
▼anced on the 23d.
That on the 26th general Kleber attacked and bl
beat the Auftnans on the Sieg, aod the whole ar. j 0
my was advancing That on the 24th general Bour- h
nonvrlle an«l general Jourdan were at Ifenberg
General Bournonville eommands the centre from „«
Neuw.ed to Dierdorf; the advanced guard by ge- d ;
neral Caftelveld at Romnefdotf. h
Rhine and Moselle. '
That Moreaw had caused 25,000 men to retreat
towards Nuremberg and the Rhine, to divert p,i„< c R
Cha.les from Jourdan. That Moreau had also «
"l ;T: w *s»« m
Jrrny "/ ttaly. 1)
1 hat K""" 1 Buonapa.ft con.int.ed viSorious— ,|,
many bloody battle, had been fought, in on. of du
Jfch g e,, eral Wurmfer saved himfelf and small "
,1! by ' nto Mantua . they and &
JO,OOO more are (hut up.
Much pains was and is taken to deceive the pub
1C on the fubjedt of the continental atmies. m
peace. mc
That the overtures on the part of Enoland t«
the French republic have all fallen through Pi?'
but off R P; rdnerd , id n ° l g" Newfoundland, de ,
but off Rochfort, in search of Richery, and not "
finding him, returned to hi, Ration off Brett.
The late oour at which we received the London \
papers not admit of enlarging—to morrow co '
pious extracts will fee given. morrow co- po |
Captain Bunker, three other cabin, and steerage Zl
paflengers, came in the Fame. g d "
~ , CONFLAGRATION.
in nn« otl f l X °/ t,c f cklaft even '"g a fire broke out Z'i
n ° in ß , n OUfcS °[. the ran & e of wooden build- (ld
J! Barle 7-ft r eet, diredly in front of the new •
alms-house, and communicated tr> »L. v • • &
-tr | »-
Pay- firemen, in entering the eaflernmod house but one,
)un- which was in flames, with their hoses, this tremen
rs a dous element was (topped in its fierce career, and
In those two houses saved. It is said, that the fire
in of caught by the (havings being left in a carclcfs tuan
-1 fi(h ner, while the workmen supped.
thai We learn, that the buildings were the property ]
duce of Mr. Henry Kip and brother, Mr. Robert Snow,
r en- Mr. Wulkins, the compaction raanufafturer, a
Ives, Mr. Smith and others—that five of them were fi
dred nifhed—— that the two which were saved were te
tnch nanted, and that the tenants happily saved their
furniture. J
itfc'f How many more fad cataftrcphcs do our rich (
van- fellow-citizens require to convince them, that brick
ries, and (lone are cheapelt in the end—How long be
'iga- fore carpenters will be more careful of their fires *in I
car- new buildings. ;
she, Captain Harris brought difpatcbes for thePrefident • f
iclli- of the UnitrJ States, which were immediately lodged ' (
fl a g in the Pod-Office.
and —
lirrJ L From the Daily Advertifer.~\
this . I' a ft evening arrived the (hip Fame, Capt. Harris, 1
iUtj. in 34 days from London and 30 from the Land's End, '
bringing papers to the nth Oflober, from which we
have extracted tip following.— 1
LONDON, October 5. '
o p It was underwood on'change, that his majesty's ! '
Jni. sp eec h, as finally prepared in the cabinet yesterday, I
is extremely guarded, and holds out neither peace • °
nor war, the consequence of which waa a fall of C
stocks. It was expected that the speech would at 1 c
lea ft hold out such a narrative of the at.cmptsj'
made by his majesty to commence a negociation as i 3
5. would have inspired confidence in the difpofitiors '
r j n „ 'he court towards peace. If we may draw any '
argument fiom the isipreffion made in the alley l»y J
the reports brought down yesterday afternoon, this
is by no means the cafe : the speech is to be smooth V
this and moffcnfive—exadtly such a speech as Mr. Wil- V
berforae would make to the manufacturers of Leeds
—fufficiently consoling to flifie their petition for
ner" P cace » l " u not promising enough to set their looms
to work. ?
>f a From the London Morning Chronicle. ,
the Monday, October jo.
itiih We yesterday received the Paris papers up to C
>as Friday last. the 7th inlt. incluiive. These papers '
are extrer. »> barren in point of intelligence from .
the aimies, which, however, our readers will find
detailed at length. The diredtory has publilhed an "
on- f'ffie' 3 ! declaration, that the difaltrnus retreat of
: in general Jourdan, not withstanding all the reports
that have been made by their enemies, has not coll °
>°rt the republic 6,000 men, comprehending killed, 1
■g» wounded, deserters, prisoners and sick, and that
een h,s arm y.' lvhich has been reinforced from 16 to
laid '^i OOO }re, h troops is to resume an attitude which V '
irtt . (hall prove, that though the French may experi- R '
:wo eocea check, they can never be vanquilhed. The
we article adds, that the rumours which have been
m spread of a new requisition of men of a certain
ju- ? BC ' , t ' 11 " not, "ng can give the (lighted \
foundat,on to such a report, that on the contrary, r
lel , their successes, the losses of their enemies, the de- ,
feat of Wurmfer in Italy, the treaties of 1
peace already made this year, as well as those which ,
they have tl e well founded expectation yet to make 7
would render an y recruit of the armies not only 7
useless but hurtful. ' lu
Such is the account which the direftnry has I-''
thought it expedient to give to the republic. Our
readers will fubjeft it to the test »f probability, f
of ana comparing [t with the report of the German ,
e gazettes, and with the well known fact of the re- *7
*1- treat of the army of the Sambre and Meufe for so !
irnmcnfe a diltance, and of the nunnl er of battles f
they had to sustain, will judge of the truth or „
an falfhood of the ftatemrnt. In the mean time, all
t, that the Paris papers state of the adtual operations
;0 of thu army ferms to be taken from the Bruffcls a "
er gazette, by which it appears that some flight fkir-
P- milhrs have taken place, in which the French hn e r
a- had the advantage, and thst general Bournonville r 1
is occupied in restoring discipline to the dittoed r
a- body. icr
Prom the army of Moreau we have not been a- "r
3d ble to trace a single artielc in any of the French
journals, nor are there any farther accounts from C °,
!r- Italy. _ rel
The only important article which the French pa- fq '
m pers contain, is the official notice published by the
e- directory on the measure of the application from
the English court for a passport.
October 11. ! ' c
« Business in the House of Commons this day. blt
Z R T« °I thC V ° te ° f I,IC Committee of Supply.
it , dl ® y morning inived the firft of the three
ce Hamburgh mails which were due. The accounts C -°'
brought by .t from the armies on the Rhine and tm
l)anube, reach down to the 21 ft ult. and contain
- the:pan.cu ars of the vidtory obtained by the arch
a duke on the .6th ult. near Limburgh, in confe-
>" qsence of which the French were obliged to recrofs th ',
j tB al>an J°n their position near Wetzlar, W
and fall baek to the lower Rhine.
»- On the 21 ft ult. the Imperialists carried the fa- f°'
mous tete-de pont before Neuwied OI
With refpeft to general Moreau's army, it ap- K '°
pear, by several letters received by the mail, that
the report of th lß general having detached a confi. P ' R
» detable corpsl nto Franconia, to turn the archduke,
is unfounded ; and that about the middle of last , '
month the army of the Rhine and Moselle was di- V
mll 't oße of wh ich had taken *
a She " enber gh near Donawerth, another
near Aufburgl, and the third near Fueffen. I„or
der ta drive them from these positions, genera],
Nauendoi f and Latour were approaching from Ba
varia, and fie d-marfhal Petrafch through Suabia ;
and tn general the Auftrians, a flift ed by very con!
iderable number of armed peasants. were endeavour <51 •
;»«.. poitf. [ht Sl "i
i n, ° # « bic •?'bntaaMom.';
• ST' 7r y Tr ,he ,Bthinft - ,( * bombard Bri«
ICeh , and Teem to be sanguine i n their hopes of a '
- speedy redudtion of that fortrefs
■ As to the state of affair, in Italy, it WQu]d
pear by an article mferted ,n the Vienna co„rt rra- Sch,
"•rftal Wu "7th ult. that'the on'y cbjedt of
I m«r(hal Wurmfer , expedition towards Vicrnza
I Verona and Mantua, w« once more to relieve the
one, If Iter foifrefi, in which we knorr, by Buonaparte's '
r.cn- iaft reports, he has fully succeeded, although with
and the lof3 of a great number of men.
fire A Stockholm, of the 20th ult. ad-
Ban- vises, that Mr. Morcns, Spanifh> charge d'affairs at
the Swedish court, is expected shortly to leave that ]
erty place.
low, ——
'» a THE KING'S SPEECH.
te . HOUSE a OF LORDS, Thurfdny, Oflcler 7.
heir The King being seated on the Throne in the u
sual (late and the Commons attending, his Majcfty
rich delivered the following most gracious speech :
rick " My Lords, *nd Gentlemen,
be- "Itis a peculiar fatisfatftion to me, in the pre- *
•s in sent conjur.dturc of affairs, to recur to your advice, '
after the recent opportunity which ha? been given
dent > for collecting the fenle of my people, engaged in a '
lg £ d difficult and arduous contest, for t• e plwervation «f 1
all that is most dear to us. 11
" [ have omitted no endeavours for setting
on foot negociations of peace to Europe, and to a
, secure for the futute the general tranquility—the
~ steps which I have taken for this pnrpofe have at
length opened the way to an immediate and direct
negociation, the ifTiie of which must either produce
, , the desirable end of a just, honourable and solid
,' j peace for us, ar.d for our allies, or must prove, bey
m'' j ond dispute, to what cause alone the prolongation
"| jof the calamities of war must be ascribed.
A i " 1 shall immediately fend a person to Paris with
; full powers to treat for this objedt, and it is my
j anxious wi(h that this measure may lead to the res-
; ors toration of general peace ; but you must be sensible
a that nothing can so much contribute to give effect
to this desire, as your manifefting that we poflefs j
this k ol * l determination and the referees to oppose, a
j with increased activity She further effoits t ]
with which we have to contend. j-,
■eds " U W> '' ee ' P ccn,ii,r, y ne ceflary at a mo-
for ment W^en l ' ,e enern y has openly manifefted the in- w
■>ms ,e " tlon s,,em P t ' n g a defcest upon these king- r j
doms. It cannot be doubted what would he the
iflue of fach an enterpvize ; but it befits your wis
dom to neglect no precautions that may either pre
to c ' u^e t ' ,e attempt, or secure the speediest means of
turning it te the eonfufion and ruin of the enemy >'
Kr ' "In reviewing the events of the year, you will
i°nd 3VC °bf erved l^at by lhe exertions of my
navy, our extenfiveaad encreafing commerce has been
<i( - protested to a degree almofl beyond example, and
irrs " rCtS t ' lC Ct>emy 3Ve r t^lc S P art
U of the year been blocked up in their own ports.
" The operations in the East and Welt Indies
have been highly honourable to the .British arms, *■
and produ&ive of great national advantage ; and the p
ich Va '° r and E °° d condaa of m y both by sea
and land have been eminently conspicuous.
h " fortune of war on the continent has been
•en m ? rl: " ar ' cus » and l ' ,e progress of the French ar
ain rn ' e ' , ' irKatened » at on & period, the utmost danger .'
eft to , a " Euro P s ' but f'om the honourable and dig- 11
; nified perseverance of my ally the Emperor, and
y ' from the intrepidity, discipline, and invincible spirit *
of the Austrian forces, under the auspicious con- '
of the Archdukc fucli a turn hdslatc* .
ly been given to the course of the war, as may in
' fpive a well grounded copfiJence. that the final re-
- lult of the campaign will prove more disastrous to '
the enemy than its commencement a»d progress E
ur tor a time w:re favourable to their hopes.
The apparently hottiie dispositions and condufl "J
y' of the Court of Madrid have led to difcufiions of
! e . wh, . ch *am not jet enabled to acquaint you with
s B '^ e ' r > llt lam confident that whwiever may c .°
es itavc given to Europe a
or further proof of my moderation arid forbearance; '''
arid I can have no doubt of your determination to =
defend, against every apfgreffion, the dignity, right.
and interests of the British Empire.
r . " Gentlemen of the House of Condons, w i
e " } rely on your zeal and public spirit for such Sa
Ik Supplies as you may think neceflary for the service
:d r ' eai ' .' s a S rcat fatisfaftion to me to ob
serve tt;at, notwithstanding the temporary embar-
raisments which have been experienced, the (late
of the commerce, manufaiftures and revenue of the
m country, proves the real extent and solidity of our mi
resources, and furniHies you such means as must be an<
equal t9 any exertions which the present crisis may hk
, • require. 1 acr
" My Lords and Gentlemen, ! ,el
" The diftrefTes which were in the last year expe- '" f
rienced from the scarcity of corn, are now, by the of
blelnng of God, happily removed, and van abund- nc
ant harveil affords the pleasing profpeft of relief in or
that important article to <he labouring fflafTesof the me
' community. Our internal tranquility has also con. t'
ld ,mued The general attachment of T h
in "7 P eo P ,c to the British constitution,' has appear. Mi
v ,on f* c, y oc «f»o", and the endeavours of those th:i
e. anarchy and eonfufion into
"To defeat the designs of our enemies—to re- tfce
f° re m y P eo P le the blessings of a secure and beil
Honorable peace—to maintain inviolate their reli- Knl
F 10 "'. I * w, « and liberty—and to deliver down, un.
[t -mpaired, to the la,eft posterity, the glory and hap- 4?
i. piße ' s of ,hefc kingdoms, is the constant wish of Bar
my heart, and the uniform end of all my anions. lar £
» In every measure that ean conduce to these obiefts ku(l
" ,a ™ COnhdf f m of receiving the firm, ze.lous, and
ate support ot my parliament." f";
r ' 100 l
- of the VN ,r,n mar.ne list . |or
; PHIL AD E L pTU November , 9 . £
! ARRIVED. Day.
- Ship Aduasa, Clapp, Rotterdam c . goo<
Fanny, Waite ? Out
In . J° r an " a » B ogg f , Lisbon °;
Btig Weft.lndian, (Iharlton, Jamaica {
Rambler, Johns, on Jeremic \ S Q f or ,
Oincmnatus, Semple, Halifax fe the 1
Columbia, Pratt, Charleston
Schooner Fanny, Venn, St. Thoma. tl ° a '
Sally Church, St. ICi.ts J p^,
Dolphin, Tice, Kingston -<
Harmony, Spooner, B«fton r y
J
Philadelphia, November 19.
a <3- 111
We have rereived I-ondon papers to the rith OJlo- _
l " at her—copious cxtra&s from which fhali be given on
Monday.
IVe have been favored with thefollowing for publication.
7. PmtADFLPiiiM, 19 th November, 1796.
SIR >
n A number of the merchants of this city, toge
ther with the directors of the insurance companies
of North-America and Pennfylrania, imprelfed
_ rc . with a high sense of yoeir humane and generous
ICC conduct, in refctiing the paffengersand crew of the
iven "*'P Aurora, from inevitable death, as well a? for
in a y°» r disinterested behaviour after having landed
n [■ them, have requeued us to present you, in their
names, with a piece of plate, of the value of four
• hundred dollars—We hope you will accept of it,
to as a mark of the refped and approbatiorf of your
fellow-citizens.
, at We are, with edeem,
eft Sir '
uce Your mod obedient fervant3,
iHd THOMAS FITZSIMONS,
, fV CONYNGHAM, NESBITT & CO.
io 7 n WILLIAM CRAMOND.
Captain Jo as Hodgb, of 1
r j t jj the Jbip Sedglkt. j
m J Philadelphia, 19th Nor. 1795.
r * Gentlemen,
. * lam honored with your letter of this day, pre
™ feming to me on behalf of the Merchants and In.
8 furance offices of Philadelphia, a piece of plate, as
5c ' a mark of theii approbation of my conduct toward
" ts the paffengets and crew of the ftiip Aurora—i felt
. fufficient fatisfadlion, in the reflection of having
T ?°" been mftrumental in saving the lives of fellow-men,
ln " who would otherwise haveperifhed; but as public no»
rice has in Earope, been taken of my conduct on
e that occafidn, it is particularly grateful to my feel
" ings, that my own country has considered it defer
ire. ving of remembrance, and even a reward, *rhich I
0 accept with every fesfation that such didinguilhed
honor naturally excites.
V 1 I ara with the highed refpedi,
Gentlemen, J.
Y our mod obliged, and
Mod obedient Servant,
art JOHN HODGE,
Mader of the Ship Sedgley.
Its To Messieurs Thos. Fitzfimons, Conyngbam,
ns ' Nefbitt and Co. and William Cramond, Merchants,
k® Philadelphia.
, fl) - COMMUNICATION.
ar We learn from good authority, that the governor
rcr hath this day determined not to iflue his proclama
| tion, relative to the ele&ion of eleflors, until Wed
ntl nefday—not wit lift anding his honor had previously
ri( assured different gentlemen, at different" limey, that
n he would certainly promulge it in Brown's paper
te . this afternoon. We underitand, that the reason of
; n . this change of promise, arises from the opinions of
re . :h,? Shippen, Yeates, Smith and Biddle of
to this morning, " That the governor may by the laws
;fj delay it unto- that day." To enfurc the good will
of both parties, his honor declaied in the fulled
manner, his determination not to publish the pro
of clamation even then, if the express now fending off
th fort . hc ,e S al 'fturns of Northumberland and Ly.
av coming, should not be received by that day in or
a der, to use his honpr's own expredion, " that fair
play may be done on both fides."
C f -
to " II
It. Sugar in hhds. & bbls.
And 2000 bufliels of COARSE SALT
will be landed on Monday next, from the schooner
.h Sally, at Stampers wharf—and for sale by
ce LEVI HGLLINGSWQIITH &SON
b- November 19 *ir '
r - 1' OH SAL E y
A valuable Plantation,
IN Frederick Cousty, Virginia, bounding nearly three
miles on the river Shenandoah, between Alhbv's
36 S ''' ck "' s 566 mil « from Alexandria, Ld the
,y like distance from the Federal City. It contains 1376
acre» 600 of which are cleared, the refldue finely tim.
bered ; the whole Limestone or River Bottom ; aboundin ff
in fine streams and fprmgs; above 83 acres on the bank
' °f^ eri «r «a T be watered ,t pleasure. It is capable
ie 0 f being divided into Lot. of 100 acres, with water in
j. »ach which renders it peculiarly convenient for erazimr
or culture. Its situation for Health or elegant improve
le ment is not to be surpassed in any inland country, and if
deemed too large for one Farm, may be divided into two
or three Imaller ones, uniting in common advantage
I h n e " " 0W ere f ed on the filiate a good Merchant-
Mill, with two pair of stones (on a large limestone fprWl
fe 'b* l re " ts for 466 dolU " P cr " nn - and en another never
0 faihng-fpring a good Saw Mill, with a flutter wheel •
there is plenty of pine timber in the neighboring mou „ *
tain, and a stream fufficient for another Mill with
pair of are adjacent to or imm.diately on
■- ' te lanks of , the river > the navigation whereof is a L,ir
d bein S °P e "ed ■"'<> the Potomak and for more than 7™
j. imleiabove the mills. The other imnrovemenu 0 „ t° h °
Mate are a new commodious Barn, the loft of which ia
capable of containing 15.0 bulhel,; the threfinn 2 -iloor !
'I feet square well planked: another (double) Lo'
►f Barn, with sheds all around: a Difiillcrv with tb
, hrge Stub and a Granary above that /oo
IUJl U J 5T W 'u aud a rtr " m of wa!
.1 eondnfied by troughs, running thro' it; at ar™ 11
dlftaa « » » 1-ge Cow-House a„d°Stab! e , with ftallffd '
" C °7 S 'PP aved with in the European manner wish •
room for above 40 waggon loads of hay: a little lurtl
is a strong stone-walled Spring-House, completely
for a Dairy. The whole of these Mill, and BuHd nl
are at a proper distance from each other and £
S"" s ' " k ; tk K "■■<•«'- •'
Build.ngs, with the necessary conveniencies. A wellTn
closed Garden of the fined foil, with a stream J
s running thro' it ; two large Apple Orchard. J>
1 S ood Quarries for building and lime (lone • a } J
Out-Houfes for Manager,fsiackf n lt h, Coiper „d [o'df
mgs f.r Men as Colour add g.-eatlv to th» ' g "
> cie, and value of this Estate. § Y
; The Purchaser, on paying one half the price atrrrM
3 for may be accommodated with a considerable credft for
J Farm^^UtMni», n an^ l^ur^iture*^''a^eafonaye l vf] > " S '
- mad =
Philadelphia, or Matthus Slough, Lancaftcr.
! I iSth Oflober, i 7 K^ a^4A Short Delay j A
Jn the Drawing of the Cimal Lottery, i r
!n Walhington city, has been unavoidably occaftosed tLon
by the unf orefeen intervention of Mr. Blodgst's lottery ed c
—but as the major pait of thetickrti are now disposed
of, thi* ii to inform the public that the drawing of the Ca- a
nal Lottery will certainly commence without fail, on the 2
firft Monday in January 1797, and those holding ticketi, , 0
•ac hereby requeiled' to fend a ftateijient of those fold, and 9 !
those onhand. 46
NOTLY YOUNG, 80
DANIEL CARROLL, of Duddington, >
GEORGE WALKtR,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY,
W. M. DUNCANSON.
The' Printers who gave our advertifemerts a place in ■
their tiewfpapers, are reqt-telTed to give this notice admif- JJ~
fion, a» the remaining tickets are expefled to be soon abovt p Q
jar, and we wifii adventurers to be timely informed £ n
j, r .
William Gardner, No. 62,
SOUTH FRONT-STREET, -w<
Hat received by the late arrivals from Liverpool Jl
- Glafcow, , v ''
An afforiment of DRT GOODS,
-Which he will dispose of upon low terms, for ca(h jap
or the usual credit, by the piece or package— bla
ConJJling 9f
CAMBRICKS, Printed Calieoes and Chintzes tur
Printed Handkerchiefs and Shawls —
Jaconet and Book Mufiins, well aflorted
Do. do. tamboured do.
Do. do. Handk's and Shawls do.
White and coloured threads th>
Diaper and diaper table cloths
Cotton check and check handkerchief
Striped and coloured nankeens afc
Dimities and quiltings
Tapes and garters.
Cotton counterpanes
Mens and womens glares
Plats and {lockings
Ofnabargs, bed-ticks and brown Holland r j v
Stationary, &c. &c. &c. G<
November g. n |s
To be Sold, ca
AT PUBLIC VENDUE.
6n Thursday tie 6tb day of Aprilnext, at 116' clod, Ca
at Dougherty's tavern, in the town of Winchefler,
■ in Virginia, the ft hiving lands, jtuate in tlx said
ft ate, viz.
No. 1.—430 Acres,
Of excellent land on the waters of Back-crtek, in
Frederick county, on the great road leading to the
South Branch, about ten miles from Winchefler, too
■icres of which is rich bottom, a -fine ftreim running r
through it, with several fpringt, the trees ia the bottom p
are chiefly sugar maple, black walnut, hickory and lo- «■
enft. There is a log dwelling and out-houfes, iome
n*adow made, and 40 acres of upland cleared. On
this traA there is a gcod mill-fe:', where an under
shot-mill might be ere fled. to ,
No. 2.—800 Acre*. mi
. Situate in Hampthire county, on the north branch an
cfthe Fotowmack, and on a branch called Cabbin-run,
about eight miles from Fort Cumberland. On this of
trail is a large quantity of rieh bottom, fit for meadow wi
or the culture afhemp, the upland remarkably good,
being chiefly timbered with walnut and hickory. TJie 'k
above trait is in two fnrveyt of 400 acret each. a P
No. 3. —joo Acres.
Situate in Franklin county, about ten milet from
"Winchester. On this trtdk there is a dwelling house ac
aid part of the land is cleared, the remainder is finely i, c
timbered,
No. 4. —A Lot of Ground. "* at
In the town of Wood (lock, Shanandnah county,
whereon is eredled a two story house, and other im- th
provements, and a ten acre lot for the convtniency ot re
laid town lot.
No. f. — 250 Acret. «
Situate about two miles from Woodftock. Part of ' a . !
this tra A is in cultivation, is finely timbered, and a good
quantity of meadow may be made.
No. 5.—400 Acres.
Situate in Hampfhrre county, on George Andet's mill
run, on a branch of the Cafapchon. This trail is finely
timbered, there is good bottom laud, which might be -j
«»fily converted into meadow.
No. 7. —One moiety of jooo Acres. ce
Lying on the waters ef Hughes's river, in Harrifon
county. Thit was purchased at one quarter of a dol
lar per acre, calh above 8 year* ago.
No. 8—41,900 Acres.
Lying in the counties of Wythe, Walhington, and
Grayfon (the greater part in Wythe,) on the watert
of Cripple creek and Fox creek, branches of New Ri- :
ver 3 and on the south fork of Holftein. K
No. 9.-10,000 Acret.
Lying'.in the county of Hardy, on the watert of Great 1
Cacapion and North River. ■
The terras of payment will be one third part of the _
pur chafe money to be paid in hand at the time of ex- g
eeuting the deed or deeds of conveyance, the remaining
two thirds to be paid in equal inflalments, tt 12, 18, ]n
and 14 months thereafter securing those payments by tI
mortgaging the premises. f c
Should any person wi/b to purchafc at private sale, »c
application may be made to John Hoiker, Esq. near in
Winchester; David Holmes, Efq of Wincbetter ; or n
by letters, (pofl paid,) to the fabferibrr in Philadel
phia, being the owner of said lands, who will perfoml c<
ly attend the sale on the day ahovementioned, tr
George Meade.
Philadelphia, id o£ November 1796.
di w w&s 1 MdtA.-
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
Price 37 t-2 Cents.
The Pretenficns of Thomas Jefier
fon to the Presidency,
EXAMINED,
And the Charges againfyjohn Adams
REFUTED.
AkdrefTed to the Citizenr of Amrrica is general,
and, particilarlv,
To the Electors of the Preftdent. ••
Sold bv
W. YOUNG, MILLS & SON, -Corner of Second ;
and Chefnut-ftreet*. i
November y. tts
■ i
Gafpard Cenas
Will open bis Danci g Sclxol
On the ift of November, at ic t'clock in the narning, j
at Oellers's Hotel. OA. 17. 'jawff j
f fhiiifjclpkla, 6tb $A.vmber, J
| AI.L pcrfonsdcliroßt to contrail to filtn.lh for the -~t- A L
iy of tlie United States, the following articles, or any for
don of. them, are rtqueiltd to fcnct in proposals leal
ed On or before the 15th December neat to
Tench Francis, Purveyor. Slt^
s S , Pair of leither brceches, The pattern, may be HTI
jjj Pair of booti, viewed ar Samuel Hod ? - A
104* Artihery scats, I do.Vi, Esq. public itore a flo.
*icß Infantry ba*s, on , he fuft whjr { .bove c eili
40c J Pair of ftocs, No. »t Arch-street. grec
8o»o Pair of ihocs, No. 2. ,iv C .,
November 8. & ftOt
James Mufgrave,
GOLDSMITH & JEWELLER,
N». 41, south Secoud-ftreet,
HAS just received an assortment of Flaud "Ware
and Jewellery, Plated Tea and OoffeeUrns, Cos"-c DOUI
Pots, Tea ditto, CtfWs from 5 to 8 bottles, Sug" »nd
Cream Basons, ij:>ttie Stands, Balkets, high Candleflics*
Brackets and Chamber ditto, Branches, Sconces, a variety
of Silver and Plated Shoe La chcts, Spurs, ts'f.tS'c. war-
ranted of the best plate ; l.adisi. and Geutlemens Gold
"Watch Chains, Seals and Keys ; Necklaces, Neck Chains, lwr
Hear Rirgs, Finger Rings, Lockcts, Bread Pins, Stone an< j
'Knee-Bucklts, with many other a.tides in th-' above (idci
the
He has ltkcwife received an extenlive iCortment of f r oo
jjpann'd tea aa4 coffee Urns, persian, blue, brown, y«r<
black and gold. _ enc<
All kinds of work inthe gold and silver line; minia- mer
tures set, a-id hair work executed as usual.
November 9. t'i th ft f
To be hold, w'
60,400 Acres of Land. P rc^
Lying Be the river Alleghany,Mn the county of Nor- vv
thumberland, in the State of Penafylvania. s , ot
400 Acres Land, \
In Bald Eagle townihip, Northumberland county —
aforefaid.
60,000 Acres Land, *
Lying on the waters of the Oconee and Canouchee
rivers, in the cotJuty of Walhington, in the Hate of (rc^
Georgia. dur
174,000 Acres Land, po j
on the waters of the Ohopee and Canouchee na
rivers, in tke county of Montgomery, in the state of
Georgia. Th
31,033 Acres Land, 1
Lying-inOrangeburgbdiltrifl, in the Hate cf South 1
Carolina. And,
146,985 Acres Land,
Lying in Charleilon difiriil, in the said state of South
• Carolina.
, An Half acre Lot of Grond,
! In the town of Richmond, Virginia.
The above Lands willbe fold tow.—Apply to
George Meade.
1 Philadeiphit, nth Nov. 1796. tu&s tgthD
Samuel Richardet
! O ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
1 Merchants, that he Uas this day opened the CITY vj
; TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
: city of Philadelphia.
1 The Subscription Room will'be with all the
" daily papers publiihed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- me
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial citi«s of Europe—They will be regularly filed j
i and none permitted to be taken away on any account. '
, Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
j of Freest Liquors; together with the ufutl refrelhments,
j will ar all times be procured at (he bar. .
j Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with 1 ]
c the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the moll
approved Malt Liquors frcmLondon and other breweries.
The Lardar will befupplied with the prime and earlicft ,
produdlionj of the Season. —
I Large and small Parties, or {ingle Gentlemen, may be
e accommodated with Breakfais, Dinners, or Sappers, at
Y hoitrs moil couvenient to thcmfelve^—a cold Collation is '
reg«Urly. kept for conveniency, ttre Bill of Fare to be had <
at the bir.
', The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and j n
- the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other j
t requiSte. V on
Siuust RicBAaDET will behappy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
f large; and with gratitude for their Savours, be pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part Cialibe wanting to pre-
serve that patronage with which he has been so diflinguilh
ingly honored. Tel
II Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
y Paterfon Lottery.
c TT'OR raising fixthoufand fix hundred and fixty-fevcu
f dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per —
cent from the priziw, and not two blanks to a prizt. ?iz
* I Prixe of 5000 dollarsit dollars joco
I 1000 ICCO
i 50c 500 "N
s aoo ioco
Zb 100 aoco Gr \
t 99 50 4950
203 2-S ' JOOO
zo«c xo io,ocp J u
5 Last drawn numbers cf xooo dollars each, jiDcg ( ' a
* afi
lt »3jt Prizes. 44«450
4018 BLar.ks. , '
e lir
l ~ 6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,4J0 " f
0 By order of the of the Society for eftab'.ifh- '
•"> ing UfefulManuiaaurS, the of the Pat- '
'y erlon Lottery hive requelled the Managers to offer the 7^
foregoing Ssheme to the public, and have directed them
e, to refund the money to those persons who have purchased
if in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
ir n this Lottery.
:1- The lottery has actually commenced diving, and will 111
ll continue until fmifbed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at tho office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second (Ireet, who will give information where tick- Dt
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of Tune, 1796.
7- N- CUMMIXG, 7
JAEOB R. HARDENBERG, f Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, ) P'
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
[■_ 1 Priie of 5000 - 5050
I 1000 - lOCQ
I 500 - - - SOD
5 • ioco
20 ico • • • aooo
90 50 ... 4iCO
165 2S - . . . 4115 t:
The five last drawn rickets, rooe 50CO a
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor- a
tion of the ic <MUrs.
As the Lottery is considerably more than one third "
md drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great- .1
Iy increased, and it Is worth the notice of"thofe b
1 v. ho hold tickets in th».old scheme, that thev can ex- /
— change their tickets for those in the above, if theyaa- t ]
Iy fooa, and at 4 moderate advance considering the r
now real value of as undrawn ticket. c
The tickets being nearly ail fold, tie drawing in c
ng, future will be oftentr, sna she Lottery soon finilhed.
I | November 11. mwt
.» ' --- v>. n-.**jr- -■ - \
T O B E S OL D,
J LEjiSE forytan,from the 1~:k JforebMxt, in ttsi
tap it at jnd beaufijul F'ARAf% called
P R O S P E C T-H ILL,
Situated within one quarter of a mil# from the Brandy oine I
Mills, aud half a mile from the borough of WilmmgW". he .
THE dwelling house is built of stone. two ftoriet nigS flatt
A geoieely finiftied, and eoniaii'sfour handsome rooms on ot.l
a floor, bclidcs an entry, with capital garrett, and convenient beei
cellars It it generally thoajht to command the molta- curt
greeabie profpeft of the Delaware, from the source ot that t
iivt ito the Capes. Thi« profpeft ia greatly embtl.tfhed by thai
a full view of a vail bodv ot meadow, through wbico tne pur
Chriliia.a and Brandywine creeks are seen winding in beau- ot c
tiful meanders. Near the house are a Kitchen, a .pacious and
stone liable and hayloft, a barn, a carnage house, mijtt- thei
house, if. and a well of as puie water as any on the conti- cart
nent. The garden containa ar. acre and quarter o. land, a- mac
bounding with fruit, and particularly wuh peach trees, ol whi
I the vcrv bed kind, brought from Maryland, and in ful. bear- fort
iftg. there i», mcreover, cn the place, a young, apple all
' orchard begining to bear, and several old trees that produce tu..
abundantly, beftdcl cherry and other ornamenta. trees, in 1
; greit numoeii. The farmco,.F.Bsof near sixty acres of land, liac
' of good p lility, and clear ot incumbrances, except taxes, »y
' twenty ot which are now in excellent clover an-i timothy, ..
and ten more will be ready for sowing next P r ' n &* ® '
: lider.ee ot nearly 8 yean has convinced the fubfenber that Itnc
the fuuuion is remarkably healthy. The great post .oad tie
f from Philadelphia 10 the Southward runs within seventy puc
, yards of the house. In a word, the bea .ties and cooyem- brti
ence of this Gtuation eannot be enumerated in an advemle- pai
. men!, arid when examined, will probably command the at- pro
tention of any pei son who is desirous of living atone 0 E .' c c
■ moil elegait country feats on the continent. The pure holer »gr
, may enter on th« premises nest spring, or pcihapi, thts.lall, iud
if appiica:ion be immediately made to Dotlor MCHOL .
WAY, in Philadelphia, to Doctor WHARTON, on the frit
prcmifes, or, in his absence, lo Mr. GEORGE TRUII T, ui e
_ Wilmington.
A quantity of excellent H»y, Grain in the ground, some an,
Stock, &c. may be had by the-purchafer althe time of fa*.
Nov. 7 . c ° Al( <*.
r—-— 1 — •
Philadelphia, November 6, 1796,
ALL persons desirous to contra& for furntfoing of
Rations and Quarter-Masters ftorcs, for the
' troops it. Philadelphia or Fort-Mifflin, on Mud Island, ;
during the year 1797 —are requested to fend their pro
posals feaicd, on or before the firft day of December
■ next, to _
f TENCH FR ANCIS, Purveyor.
The component parts of the Rations, are
I pound of Flour or Bread
I 1 pound of Beef or 3-4 pound of Pork
1-2 a gill of Rum, Brandy
er VVliifkey Co
1 quart of Sift ] ° t
a quarts of Vinegar '> For 100 Rations or ,
2 pounds of Soap •
1 pound of Caacies J y r
HPY, 9 fid
' t(H
Just Imported, "><
In the fchoouer Lucy, Capt. Prows, from Madeira, 'J"~ ;
and to be fold by
1' ELLISTON JOHN PEROT, M
[ Belt London particular Madeira Wine, —
Three years old,
e In pipes, hogfteads, and quarter calks, fit for im
mediate use.—•They have also for sale, a !
A few bags of Juniper Berries. ol
A Oflober 28. wfcs4w C °
' To be Sold, p
h The Time of a smart, a&ive Negro Lad, pa
Who has Eleven years to serve. a 8
'• Enquire at No. 58, South Front llreet.
II Ofiober 18. §__
c t DANCING SCHOOL.
is WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open his school oa Mon
d day the 3ift inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, alius h<-
Elegant Atfcr Ball Rconu, o
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets, ? r
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'clock c
, on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for (q
younggestlcmen from 6 to 9 o'clsck on the evenings o U]
the fame days.
" In addition to a ntunber of new cetillioas, he means to tr
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels. i w
" Note. The firft praAifiag ball to ie on Tuesday e- ],j
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every , f 0
- Tuesday, during the season.
For terms, Sic, enquire at his house, Market- rc
■street. b<
■ n oa. 17. tthf re
er m
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
M XTOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re- .'h
;o -LN ceived at the office of the Secretary of th« Treaftiry _
- 0 until the expiration of the firft day ol" March next en
-50 f ß ' n £> f° r the supply of all rations which tnay he required
D 0 for the use of the United Statss, from the firll day of
June, 1797, »o the thirty-fir,t day of May, 1798, both •«
co days inclusive, at the places and'within the dißridls hi.re-
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at t ,
J Q Pjefque lfle; at Sandufky Lake, and on Saodufky 3
Riv3rj- »t Detroit; at Mirhijimackinac; at Fort-Frank- , c
lin, at Pittsburgh ;at Cincinnati; at Fort-Han»ilton ;
it Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jcffcrfon ;at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramies Store ; at Fort Adams; at
(t _ Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance; at any place below Fort
j l . Defiance oa the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort MaSac ; at any plate irom Fort MalTac
• c i to the font* boundary of the United States or. the river
et6 Miflilippi; at Fcrt Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If fuwpliea lhallbc required lor any posts er places not
~m mentioned ia this notice, all such supplies fnall be fur
rc'? nifhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
,j [ _ between the United States atvd the Contractor.
The ratiens to be fupplicd are to cqnfifi; of the fcl
lo v.- i r jftick-s, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread «r flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy r r whilkey.
One quart and half a pint of falt.~\
00 Two quarts of Vinegar, ( , . , . j
iCS Two pounds of Soap, > per hundred rauons d
O-, One pound of Caudles,. J
icc The rati'Jos are to be furnilbed in such quantities, (
, 00 mere ll.all at all times during the l'aid term, be fufficient t
;co forthe consumption of the troops at Michilimacfcinac, Dc
[ troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, fer the term offu montha in
)CO advince >» r,<l " each of the other poll*, forthe term of
o ~_ at leait three months in advance, in good and wholesome
provisions, if thefame (kail be required. It is ta be un
. , uerftood, that the CentraSor is to beat the eif ence and
; r t risc of iffuirg the fupplits to the troops ate2th post, and
that all loffi i feftained by the depredations of an enemy, or
oie by means of the troops of the United States, shall be paid
cx " for at the price of the articles captured or deilroyed, on ■
a P" the dcpofitioHs of two or more -per Tons of creditabie cha
the racters, and the ccrtificatc of a commiflioncd *f
certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the amount
in of the ai tides for which compenfatior. fliall bc daiiued
ed. OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
• V
SWANN'S,
Riling School, Hot ft /lcadcmy & Infirmary.
Adjoining tile Public Squirt, Market Sueet.
T. SWANN
RETURNS his sincere thanks to those gentlemen by whom
he hi. been employed, during hit rtfidence in thi, Citv, and
flatters himlclf that the fuctefs of his efioru, iii the numerout,
obitina'.e and dangerous difeafet in HorCcs, in which he'h.t
been ennfuited, together with hit moderate charges, will fc.
cure their futurelavort and recommendation.
He now begs leave to inlorra Ltwrn and the public at large '
that his fpaciout and commodious premiirs, creeled for u,e
purposes above tfeferibed are open for the reception of pup;!s
of cither sex, who wiftito beinftrufted in the .Art of ftidiug,
and the light method of governing their horses, so at to tide
them with eife, elegancc, and tafetv—tberr noifts will be
carefully and expeditiouily broke, tor every purpofej ar.d
made obedient to ihe will of the riders j the natural po.vert
which are (but up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all those beau'.iet of action which providence hat io boun.i
fullv bestowed on them.
Also, at hit hofpita!, every difor er lo whieh the hnrfe it
liable will tie treated according to the rules of art, confirax a
by l«ng and repeated experience. '
.. The utility of the above iniiiiution hat never been qntftioa
ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, gentleman's
llud willroanifeft, and T. Sw.\»n as the fir ft ettahlhher of
tile veterenary art, folicut atid relict upon the fuppon «fthat
public (whicn he it ever anxious in lervingj to tiubie him :o
bring it to perfeQion. The idea of ■ fubtcription for that
purpose has beeu hinted by feveial gentleman, who with LO
promote the inftitution—lhe amount of each fubferietirjo to
befeturned by services in any of the departments he protefies,
agreeable to the rate of charges ftatcd in his hand bul. Such
fubicription is now open, and the fignttures of many refut
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore informs hu
friepds. ajiu lu-h Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has net
'he honor of being known, that he fhali in a few days take
the liberty of waiting upon them aud fblicitkg iheir fuppoit
and protection.
N. B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladietand
Oentlemen who wish to be instructed.
• Nov- 5. tth&f.
W ANTE D,
As Cook, in a private family,
A YOUNG WOMAN who can producf gaodrc
' eommendations of an unexceptionable character. En
. quire of the Printer.
November 17.
" "i '
Loft Last Evening, 1 <s;
At Rickttts's Amphitheatr", (supposed to be taken by
fotne villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three note)
of hand of Rofs and Shnfon, No. 304, 305 and 106, da
ted llth la!l Augufl, payable 60 days after date, to the
order of Paul Siemen, together for 5150 doil&ri; anordur
of Mrs. Ann V'acpherfon, from Paul Siemen, on Lack
lin Mac Neal, Efq.at Port-au-Prince, f- r 100 dollars; be»
fides several letters and papers of no use but to the proprie
tor. The notes of hand and order are without endorfe
raent. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is o.Tereu to
any perfmi who will discover and fccurc the thief, and
' FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above rnc: t!-
oned notes and papers at No. 129, corner of Front tad
Mulberry streets. d Oft. It.
Twenty Guineas Reward,
RAN AW AY from the lubfcriber on the 13d O Aober, ' '
a Dark MtiLA'lTO BOY, named MOSES; zi year.
•Id; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a misad green
coat, with a gteen velvet cape and oval yellow buttons (
a striped vefl; a pair of dark spotted jjsntf.loonv au4
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may ch:ng«
his name and dress. He has been aceuftomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be >
( paid for fccuring him so that the fubferiker may get him
again, and if brought heme all reafonafcle charges g-.idby
Robins Chamberlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 jlnuiwlf
STOP THE THIEVES!!!
LAST Wedpefdiy Evening, October 19. crlwrtn the
h«urs of 7 and loo'ejock, the bed room of Mr Rickettt i«
o*£iler*s hotel was entered, rimer bv means vf fa)fc k.-v»; Wj
or at the window, by fomc villain or villains, who mull have *
* been acquainted wi h the fityation of the houfc (as the floor
was found locked after they had commuted t<ie tkef:) wivo*
r took away from amongst several trunks, ONE which con
-3 taioed a valuable part cf Mr. Rickett'a property, bur afwbi'h
he is not yet ableto aioertain the contents pariiei.Urly. At*
0 ter bringing the said trunk away, and emptying ofuj
; wards thousand dollars in cafb and bank notes, the vil~
" { laios icft it behind the circus, during the lime that the per
f i formances of the evening were forward*
It is earnestly requeued, that all taveyn-ktepers on the
roads, and the ferry houses. as well as allcivil <~ fliccrs, may
be watchful in feeuring (ufpicious per Tons, who feay tiave a
redundance of cash, which their appearance would by no
means bespeak them ta oe poffeflfed of.
One HuJtdrcd Dollars Reward
Will be for Securing tfce thief or thicvet, and a fur
.. tber reward tor fecuving them with the property.
y Off iv- '
a W alhiugton Canal Lottery,
>f N°. I.
U \X THIREAS the State of Maryland has authoring
-- w the unJerwrittex, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
11 two hundred and fifty dollars, for the puipofe of
y a Canal through the City of Wilbington, fro" th. f»-
c " tomacto theEaftern Branch Hsruonr.
> The following is the SCHEME at No. ft
" Viz I Prize of to.ooe ic,ooo
1 ditto io.ooo icfico
« 7 ' lrtdra T n | J,COO 35fi oa
rt Tickets,each J J ' . m '
* c 6 ditto ' l,oco 6,000
•r 10 ditfo 400 4i~°°
10 ditto 100 t,ooo
" 55 ditto 50
r * 57j0 ditto II 69,00 a
ie Xo be raised for tiu Caaal,
5850 Prizes,
116.50 Blanks, nottwo to a prize
-17500 Tickets *tTan Dollars, - I7J,® 0 ®
Commissioners havo taken the Security"
quired by the aforefaid for tke ponf.ual paymeut 0 .
the prizes. v
The drawing of this Lottary will cotnTßtnfe, Witnou
ns j delay, aj soon as thf Ticketi are fold, of which timely
notice ■will be given.
Such prizes ;;s are not demanded ir. fix months after t> * _ t
a£ dnwing is finifhed, shall be con(uler:d as relinquilned or
nt tl e benefit of the Canal, and appropriated »cC«<iingly
f- (Signed J NOTLEY TOUNOm
m £ DANIEL CARROLL, cf IX
of LEWIS DEBLOIS, J j
ne GEOB6E WALKER,
W». M.DUNCANSON,
"j THOMAS LAW,
0 , JAMES BARRY.
,;d City of WilhiDgtoii, Feb. 11.
on ~ *
la- •
zf - PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO,
int —No. 119—
CHESNVT-STREKT.
(Price F.ijkt Collar* per