#afette ofthe Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
SATCRDAr EVENING, SEPTEMBER u, -796- [rMM " X.
■ Nuxiz* "62.] __ SAIF,
' «-» < « t rr r« T? \T C I h rvt« VO I 1 • *
tor Charter, 1 .
7*fe Dominick Terry,
/• ! ' ; ] aC ob De Hart, matter: an excellent - For a
s&|lgSSS2«iS'vcffcl, of about 3000 barrels burth:n. beral cr
JeJfe If? Robert Wain. Se f t<
Sentember »I- .
—For NEW-YORK, .
I TA< Ship LIGHT HORSE, Reur>
■ To faila few da y'' and wl " uke fmght »o Trur
very low. Apply to, JQSEpH A „ XH ONY, & Co.
September *0. d * I Ditt
— -W- — I Ditt
For Sale, Freight or Charter, iDi«
The Ship General Wafhiugton, For t
Now difcWging her cargo from Liver- _ AUg l
pool at Rofs's Wharf-She is » tail fail-
Xging ship, and may be Cent to sea at a lmall # V
cxpence, having teen docked and refitted in Liverpool.
Kearny Wharton. j-J A t :
Who has for sale on board (aid (hip, Mercei
few thousand Bushels Salt and Coal, he W ui
Sept - '9- Son,
For Charter, d?'
The Danilh Barque BenEventura, Som
TJ.*,
Samuel Stub) nwfter » Lon
good vessel, of about two hundred Ellg
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WAI.N. Da[l
Sept. 17. dtf Silk
* FOR LONDON,
fail soon -For freight or paflsge
a; j ß l v tQ DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or "J
, John Vaughan, 1
September 10. Frent-dreet.
~ F 0 R S A L E, Am
The Schooner L A R K, The
M^ll^° ne Hundred and twenty tons burthen. f
A new vessel well found, well built, & Vj
v | fiiU extremely fad. For terms apply
to tha mailer on board, or to
Joseph Anthony Iff Co.
If the above vessel is not fold in a few days, Ihe will 7°
take freight on very low terms for Boston.
Sept. 10. d *°
FOR SALE, ■ Se
The ship STAR, ££
John Vanneman, Mailer, _ Se
T YING at Walnut-ftraet wharf, Philadel
-1 ' phia built, of live oalt and cedar, will
carry about 3100 barrels, is two years old, and in com
pleat order to receive a cargo—For ter ms apr'y'o
* THOS.&JOHN KETLAND.
Who have also for sale said vessels c.irgo—confiding of— j ul ,
WlnJ aTtJ-fonrr^.tclc^,'-
Window G'afs, 6 by 8 to 16 by 11.
Pipes in
Earthen-Wape in crates.
I Grinddones, Coals, Whiting, &c. >n p
Aug. 19
Johrv Whitefides & Co.
Have for SaU,
Venetian Red,
Spanilh Brown, /
White Lead, ground in oil;
Shot, No. I, 2, 3, 4> 5-
JL-ijndon Porter, in casks and bottles.
Green Copperas. _ . 1
Several crates of Queens Ware, in setts, with desert _j>
ditto compleat.
Blistered Steel,
German ditto.
Sept. at. . . d * w
\Vafhington Lottery. fh =
7lie Twenty-second & Twenty-third Days' Drawing of
tha WaAi»gton Lottery, No. 2, are received at the oihee
No. 134, Market-street, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries fn :y be procured. Po
, -* Septembe- 13, 1796- ex;
Thomas Ryerfon
HAS tuft received, by the ships Molly and Hamburgh
Packet from Liverpool, and the Light Horse from
Briifcol, and is now opening for sale, at his store No,
iy7, Market-ilrtet, an exteniive assortment of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware
a:nd Saddlery.
The ship Caroline, now on htr paflage from Liverpool
Philadelphia, brings the remainder jl his 'fall impor-
N. B. At the above store may he had, a few elegant
Mahogany Cases for Table Furniture ; also, a good as
sortment of the bed kinds of Knives and Forks.
Sept. 2j. :
Wants a Place, J
AS A WET NURSE,
A healthy YOUNG WOMAN, with a Fresh Bread
of AI ilk. Apply at the Office No. 234, Market-(erect.
Kept. »3-
Turks-Island Saltj r
F'O R SALE, a
Per the (liip Amei'ican, Capt. Shallcrofe Will be rea- j,
dy to discharge at Pine-flreet wharf on the 47th ind. r
'' 5 Jehu HoUingpivortb C3 5 Co.
Sept. 43. mwf
Waftington Lottery, No. a.
THE twenty-second and twenty-third days drawing y
are arrived at thi> olEce No. 147» Chefnut-ftreet, (
between Fourth and Fifth streets, where they will con- ]
tinue regularly to arrive, during the term ol the drawing. ,
This is mentioned to the public, t* preclude the neceflity
of adverti&ng daily, as usual, with great
cxpence. , . , ,
Caunl and other Lottery 1 ickets may be liad at the
above ofiice, w,here all transactions in the line of a bro
ker art; piomotly attended to.
Thomas Noble.
Sept. 13. d
I .
, NANKEENS,
I Of the jirjl quality, FOR SALE l>
RD. and JAS. POTTER. A thi
- For any quantity above Five Thoutand Pieces, a li
beral credit will be given. R: & i
September 13- the Sou
— Con of
French Goods. Appi
Recdvcu kg the Mb*. Jrom Havre-de- ?
Grace,
to Trunks ") La( j; e5 > shOES of all colors forts, and Gzes _ S ' l ' t '
I Cafe \
I Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS
I Ditto Fine LAWN A T
I Ditto bed fine CAMBRIC ix f
I Ditto Ladies' he ft fhitnmy and Grenoble Gloves , Mef j- r ,
• For Sale by THOMAS % JOHN KETLAND- now d(
Ang. 14 Pofft
i . Wtrf. HOLDERNKSSE,
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the lated arrivals from Europe and
the Ead Indies, a well fele<ftcd assortment of Silk R
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Hnberdalhery Goods; which j.
• he will fdl, Wholesale and Retail, en the lowed terms ; abJc
amongst which are, .
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and frlver i_
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aiid Mulinul ditto
Do do do . do Handkerchiefs
> Some sxtra black colored Pcifians Rec
Bandano Handkerchiefi C
Long and short Nankeens P
d Englilh Mantuas of the fird quality 1
Damaflc table linen and napkins, very fine C
Silk H<-ji cry, an elegamt assortment C
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas —green silk, oil'd de. and do deth
IrifK Linens, do. &c. jimu 14 f> ■1 1" ri
jr 70,000 Pieces Nankeens, s
Of the, bejl quality and on reasonable terms,
FOR SALE BY
Philip Nick/in & Co.
August 16. j
The Cafgo of the Polacre Independent,
n. /~iAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif
& bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf— A
>y 18 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanish wool
3 do. of Annifeed A 1
ill 7000 Bulhels of best Lisbon Salt
So Boxes of Lemons
For falc by VVILLINGS & FRANCIS.
_ ALSO,
Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the ship Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart,
from Kingston.
Sept. 13. J u
CABLES, j
From 16 to 9 i inches, for sale by ' •
yeremiah Warder,
1 — July IT § No li northThird-ftreet.
- YORYale,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years eld, g
in pipes ami hoglheads —
j Clarft, genuine old, in cases yfc
— Gin, in pipes, from Holland (
Earthen Ware, in crates
Baflcet Salt» in hoglheads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9 T>
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead iS
Steel, German and Russia, in barrels _ beii
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolia canvas, of
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by inti
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. cor
fert J"'y L to'
Lottery and. Broker's Office, _
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a
Check Book for examinatien— prizes paid in
the late lottery. .
r Check Books kept for examination and rcgiftering, ior
1 I: 0 the City of Washington, No. », and Pattel'on Lotteries, H
■ J C both of which are now drawing—information where •
in , tickets are to be had, and prices for undrawn of
r tickets. A complete lid of all the prizes in the late New- an
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lotfery, for j
examination. . k e
The fubferjber foficits the application of the public | ou
and his friends, who with to purchase or fell Bank Stock, | tie
Certificates. Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands, j Fc
mrgh &c. or to obtain money on deposit of property
from Wm. Blackburn.
,0 * Philadelphia. 18, ■ 79 fe -
ire For :ale,
The Time of a Negro Man,
xpool who is a goo d Cook. Eliquire at No. 109, South
n P or * Water-Street.
s <f ■
3d as " FOR SALE,
A Complete Font of Brevier,
ENtirdy new , and yet unopened. The weight of this
font is about 31a lb. It is from the Foundery of
Wilson & Sons,Glafgow,and will be fold at cost & char,ges.
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes. . | f
Bread Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the Unitde
reet. Statse, 119 Chefnut-ftreet. Aug 19
3 ' ' T~. ! 1
Dissolution of Pa,rtnerlhip. 'U
THE Partnerlhip between ROBERT ANDREWS and '
0 'VID MEREDITH,under the firm of ANDREWS '
and MEREDITH, being diHolvi d All per lons who are '
5C rea " indebted to, or who have claims against the laid house, are
ind.— requcfted to apply for lettlement to the fublcriber.
ROBERT ANDREWS,
- No. 86, So. Whaives.
v f 5ept.6,1796. d lf
W A N T E D,
A Middle-Aged WOMAN, who can be well* recom
rawing mcn( Jed, to take charge of the entire management of
-llreet, children Such a person will meet with suitable encou
II con- jagement, aind may hear of a place, by applying to the
rawing. p r j n ter of this Gazette.
leceffity Sc t _ i 4. nrwf
h great ■ .
To be disposed of,
l at the r-piy£ time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
a l!ro- |j 3S between four and five years to serve: She
r can be recommended for her sobriety and hnnefly. For
ne. par;i, u!ars enquire at No. 132, Chefnut-ftreet.
d 3 August 3. w&ftf
For Sale,
(Ibt an excellent fitualion lor business,)
A threc-ftory brick House and Lot or Prfcneß
Ground, Georgia
Eiglitc a- feet front and twenty-five feet in depth, on Carolina
the South fide of Market near Front-dreet, now in poffcl- Sherry s
Con of irnucl Read.
Appl t» ' Bdl ° B '
' e, . israel PlejCmts, or gffi,
Charles & Jofepn Pleafants. s ap t.
Sept. 13. • ■
For Sale,
A Three dory BRICK. HOUSE and Lot, it) Chefnut 13 0 1
street, between Front and Second streets, in which i OO ,
! MelTrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many (and 300
now do) carried on business.
Poflefljo.il will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April «. i J!" U _
A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's place is wasted by a person properly (Juali- PC
fied, and whose ehara&er will be found unexception- H(
able. Apply to the Printer.
—«h"
Dutch Goods, n.l
s Received by the Pennsylvania, from Amjlerdam.
GIN, in pipes
Morlaix 15y
Ticklenbargs > In Bales
Ofnalmrgs J
German \ Stripes, in cases »T
Harlem j 1 1
Uollaiids J3UCK. iu Sum . r"
—"r .-i-dticks, in ditto
Brittagnes ") .in ditto The re
THOMAS JOHN KETLANB. n
AUg. 19 . —— Uni
Sales of India Goods. —!_
The Cargo sf the ffiip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cat- Q
, cutta and Bengal,
f. coNSisriNO or
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILKGOODS.
AMONC WHICH ARE Al
A variety fine worked ctndplain Mujhns,
Doreas, yfc. Alio,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, r» •
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PfcPPER,
For Sale by
\Vtilings Francis,
JJo. ai Penn Street.
_ June 8 — '
7 US T ARRIVED, from Lijbon,
- A n,l far r.nlg by the Subferibers, .
Liibon Wine, /vr
In pipes and quarter-calks ;
cooo Bufliels LifbtifrSalt. A . r
Je/fe & Robert Wain.
id, „ J M dtfr By
Sept. xo.
At a special meeting of the Board of Di
retl vs fir eflabli/hing ufeful Manufeclures, holdcn .
at Pdtcrfon, 'July S, ' 79^'
TT) ESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock
tv holders of the Society be called on the firit Monday,
b'eV the third ay of Odober next, at Paterfon, by ten A
us, Of the Clock of the fame day; then and there to take
into coh(idcration the propriety of dissolving the said
.. corporation, agreeably to the law in inch cafe made and
J proviJ»d-and the Stockholders are earr.eftly requ.ded
L_ to attend the said meeting in person or by proxy.
Augnftay dt,oth ° n?t
—— ~ ;; ~ ~ Mt
DUTY ON CARRIAGES. ja f
1 in A
for Notice is hereby Given,
ries T*H AT agreeably to an aft of Congress of the United
We L States of America, passed at Philadelphia, the 28th day ,
of May, .796 •• layin-duties on Carnages, for the convey- _
r, w ance of perlons, and repealing the former a£ls for that pur-
T" pose.-That there lhall be levwd, collected and paid, upon
' i all carriages for the conveyance of perforis, which lhall be
, kept by or for any person, for his or hjr own use, o. to let \
' c j out to hire, or for the conveying of passengers, the several du
:oc ' i ties and rates following, to wit. W1
mds, j jr or lnc | U p o n every Coach, 15 dols.
upon eveTy Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chariot, li w
*. upon every Poll Chaise, 12 dols. he
1 , upon every Phaeton, with or without top, 9 dols ya
upon every Coachee, 9 dols. ' ■ qi
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work above, c (.
with blinds, curtains, 9 dols. j p,
upon four wheel carriages, having framed pods and q[
South topj with steel lprings, 6 dols.
upon four wheel top arriages, with wooden or iron
springs or jacks. 3 dols.
upon curricles with tops, 3 dols/
upon ct<aifes with tops, .3 dols.
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols. Il
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
f this upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
r y 0 f upon two wheel carriages, with ftcel or iron springs,
arget. , 3 dols.
' For and upon all other two wheel carnages, 2 dols.
Initde U P°° every four wheel carriage, having fiamed polls
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
The Collectors of the Revenue ot the fird lurvev ol the e
Diftriflof Pennsylvania. will attend daily, until the 30th day a
; ofSeptember next, for the purpose of rece". ti>g the duties on i
K Carriages, at No. 117, in Kace or Saffafras dreet, in the City t
• FWS of Philadelphia, at the houte ol Daniel S. Ctair, E!q in the
1 „ County ot Montgomery ; »nd at the houle of Abraham Du
f bois, Esq. in the County oi Bucks; of which all persons pol
' are felled ot f«ch Carriages are defited to take notice.
Notice is also given,
,cs * TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled spin- '
1 tuous liquors,that licences will be granted to them ; one li
cence for carrying on the business ol retailing ol Wines, in a
less quantity, or in leis quantities than 30 gallons—and one
recom- licence for carrying on the bufsneis of letailing Spirituous li
lent of quors in less quantities than iO gallons, at the fame time and
encou at 'he fame places, by the orficers legally authorised to grant
. ,luck licences. _ _
t0 the WILLI M NICHOLS,
. Infpeftor of the Revenue qf the fird lurvey
nnvt 1 of the dillrift of Pennsylvania.
Office of InfpeOion,at > , 3°.
Philadelphia, eid July, 1796. )
•f, who
e: She ~~ ' ——
ly For WANTED,
An APPRENTICE to the Prirting Business.
its 1 Enquire at this {Jflice. Aug. 9
FOR. SALF,
By N. and J. FRAZIER,
No. 95, S. Front-dreet,
Prfene Boflon Beef, in barrels.
Georgia Cotton. 1
Carolina Rice and Indigo.
Sherry and Teneriffe Winqs, of eicellent quality.
Ravens Duck.
Indio Bandauno's.
Sewing Silks, various colours.
Cof.ihs w4 Gttri - i. <* - >-■'
Sspt. x 7. ■ ■ v '3 - W 4w.
For sale by the fubicribers,
iIN PENN-STREET,
130 quarter Chefls frefh Hyson Tea;
100 ditto do, frcfli Souchong I ea;
300 Boxes China, containing lipall tea setts of 4*
pieces;
400 pieces Bandanoes.
Willing.s y Francis.
January 30
FOR SALE.
PORT WINE, and .
HOLLAND GIN, of 'he fird qualities in Pipes.
FRAISNCFS and VAN REED,
Brokers and CommifTion Merchants. No. 63, So. 3d St.
'ho discount approved NO PES o. hand.
N. B. An APPRENI ICE Wanted.
September 14. . _ mv ' f
THIS IS PUBLISH sO,
By W. YOUNG, MILLS and Son,
Corner of Second and Chefnut Jit eels %
Price ia 1-2 cants,
The Prefid nt's "ddrefs
n - .1_ fv l. "**.'Tir 11'. 11 LP*
INT I WAT I HQ
•he resolution he has formed to decline being conftdered
among the number of those out of whom ach°u<;« 'to
be made, at aledion of a Prefidcnt of the
United States. w , 6
Sept. 10.
Great is Truth and mult, prevail.
tust published,
And for sale at No- 41 Chtfwi-flreet by J.ORMi<OD,
An Apology tor the Liible,
By R• Watson, o. d. f- R> s.
Bifkop of handaff, &c. ,
Being a complete refutation of Paine s
Age of Reason,
Ami the only answer to the Second Part.^
Augud 30. ■ ■—
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED, .
' By W. Young, Mills and bon,
[Price 50 cts. in boards, 62 i-» neatly bound|
An Apology for the Bible,
In a ferits of Letters,
Addrefled to Thomas Paine, author of a book entit.ed
The Age 'of Reason, part ihe second, being an m
vefligaUon of tru* and fabulous theology-
Bv R. WATSON, D. D. V. R. S. Lotd Bilhop of
- Landaff, and Regius ProfefTor of Divinity
m the University of Cambridge.
i, _Sept. 16.
India Tamboured Muslins.
ck-
'ten A small, handsome assortment of Muslins,
VIZ.
Fine tamboured Malda and Santipore Muslins, various
(led patterns and prices.
Plain 6-4 Jaconet.
rx Corded and erofs-barred Muslin Shawls.
j)ttto ditto 6-4 and 4-4 Dorcas.
Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarse.
Japan Muslins, afld .
A few pieces extraordinary fine Long Cloths.
for sale by
Thomas Tingey,
lited No. HI, South Third-street.
da >' Sept ... ' tutf&f
ivey- — ""
pur- TO BE SOLD,
jpon That Neat and Convenient House,
0 h TTTHEREIN the fnbfcriber now lives. There are lout
Idu VV rooms on a floor : the house is two dories high
with a good garret above : under the whole is an excell
ent cellar, with a dry well, in which is a convenient
framed chamber for preferring meat, butter, &c. in warm
weather. Attached to ths house is a Stable for three
horses, hay-los , granary, and cariiage-houfe, a wood-
Is yard paved wjth done, and a garden with Ipil of a fine
• qual ty. An indisputable title will be made to the pur
bovc> chafer. For farther particulars apply to the fubfenber in
1 Princeton, or, in her absence to '1 homas D. Johi son, Efq,
1 and or the rev. Samnel S. Smith,
ANN WITHFRSPOON.
c,ron Princeton, Aug 24- aawtO
Plans of the city ot Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and diftridl of
Southwark ,
Publilhed, and fold by
>rings, BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High street,
1 pods (Price one dollar.)
2 dols. THIS plan is 26 inche square, and has been en^
of the g rive( j |,y one of the firft artists in the city, from a late
th d av ln( J accurate survey. Purchasers Jre entitled to a pam
ll" ." n j phlet with each plan, giving " some account" of the
" n ,' h e city, its population, trade, government, &c.
m Du- July *9 tu&ftf
n ™ P ot TAKE NOTICE.
rHE fubferiber intends to make application for a re
newal of the following certificate, supposed to be
d fpiri- loft 011 the parage to England in April 1794 : •
one li Certificate No. 10335, dated 15th November, 1793,
es in a for 2830 dollars and 92 cents—Six per cent, domtdic
nd one debt, on the.books of the Treasury of the United States,
uous li- in the name of the Hon John 1 i evor.
me and ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's.
to grant Philadelphia, Augud 30th, 1796.
ls, W ANTED,
\ survey TffßS£ JOURNEYMEN BOOK BINDERS,
GOOD fleady workmen will meet with conflant rm
ployment, and good wages; by applying to JOHN
CURTIS, Kh>- 43, North Fourth-dreet.
g BOOK-BINDING in all its different branches,
executed with neatness and dispatch. Public and private
inefs. libraries repaired in the neatcll and bed manner.
. Septfnl.« \ 1 * * ,T
IPRICES CURRENT.
Philadelphia, Sept. 24.
I'ER QUANTITY— DOLLARS AT *00 CENTS.
Dolls'. Cts. XhfJr Cts.
Vj *■'? VCIIORS, pr.'h. II Nai!sy,ZJ, lod, lid,
A.7v m, En*iijb,pr civt 775 and 10dy per lb. IJ
Initio, Roth, pr lb. II PTutmesrs, per lb. II
-4 so pot per ton, 170 linseed, per gall. I 33"
7V-v7 f f" *JO ■ 'Olive,
\ Arr a cl, per gallon, ditts. per cafe, 9
"■L.Hut on. Shoulder lb. 10 ■ bejl, in
Flitches, 13 fiafis, per box, 10"
Jlrh'wfy, cijMtttoXp 160 > -Iditto bajlets, 12
—Conine, 2 2J 7
'ictto, her ton, 9° ———Spermaceti pr gall I 06
'■ic£s, per A/I. 7 - --Train,per bbP. 13
!o>i), per Clot. 6 -IVhale, per gal. 40
/>/**», pilot 9 50 J P#rtor per eajk, 7< 30
//.Vv, fxa'l water | —I—Lond*n,per1—Lond*n,per doz. 2JO
A" 9° -Anttrican do. bott.
I'.Vr, America ,tn bob- in el*, 2
.Vr .dozen, bat- | Pitch, per bbl, 4 I
#.«? ir, eluded, I .60 Pork, Burlington, per
Drtta, p.r barrel, 6 barrel, 19 to 20
irds,Cedar,per Mfeet 30 Loiter county, 19
i'le.lrt, , 30 Carolina, l 6
— fvVrr England, 2jS 80 Peas r-Alfr any, J>r bujb. 93
-.Odi, 26 Pepper, per lb. 38
pine, 18 Pimentig, 14
-Sap, do. l 8 Raif/ns, befipcr lag II
j\laboganv,pr. foot Ditto per jar , 6
The no ave arethefhallop Ditto per box 8
trices, for the yard Rice, per *w/. 5
price price, add I del- Roftn per barrel 4/50
letr, $5 c&it:, pr As. Rum, Jamaica, pr gal. I 67
Brimjlone in rolls, per Antigua \ I 5 4
rio/. 3 33 Windkvard I 40
Beef,Bo/lon, per b11.13 al6 I 2/ I
—: Country, ditto 14 Country, U. E. 97
F&fb* cwt. Jto 8 Saltpetre, per civt. JO
Suiter ftr lb. iS 1 20 Sajfafras, per toil 1
—— in ievs 14 <#/to, 120 <
Candles Sperm.tper lb. 56 5/#/, German, per lb. IJ 4 j
— Jfi/x » —Englifi, blifi.pr out. 12 14 j
■ ■ Myrtle JVax 20 —- American, per ton 133 33
* ■ ■ - Mould talloio l 8 to '19 ——Crozvley\s, pr faggot
> Dipped 15 Snake rooty per lb. 35 1
Cheese, Englijh,per Ih. 28 Soap, brwwn per lb» 12 1
Country !1 ai j —White 14 3
i.. if 1 >j p-ISWtYi ■' ■ i f
Clows I 50 SnuJ,p r dor. bottles JO '
Cocoa, Per CtvU 'l 8 Spermaceti refined pr lb. I 1
Zf to 28 £rtgli/!> m JVo. I 1
Cfftf/, per bufiel, 30 J 40' I, per yard, 33 L
Copperas, per cxvt. 3 80/Jon, No. 1, d 9. 30 J J
Cordage, American, p?Y fto.l do. I
16 <z ,18 Sugar, lumpy per. lb. 2J r '
Coi}6n 9 per lb. ' 33 ,to JO Loaf, fwfle res. %] I
Currants 10 Ditto double ditto $
Buck, Russia, per piece, tfavannab, -white 20
Ravens II JO •*-» Ditto brown 16
Dutch. Sdil Duck 24 —Mifco'uadop.c'wt llal f67| r<
Feathers, /vr lb: 66 £.7^
a'/ito II - 14 66 01
Flaxfeedy per bufiel I Terpentine pr gall. 66 ol
per bl. II JO al2 sa//, allum, p r bufiell 60 }
- Common, II aII jo —Liverpool. *2 I •
~—~Bur middlings, befly 6a 9 —60
Indian 4 332166 —J in
,'J /r. 0. at
j Ship fluffp ef. 367 frames per ton 22 67 I W
Fuflicpcrton, 2J pitto Live Oaky 26 'I ra
G/«, Holland per cafe, 7JO Do. Red Cedar pr foot I r
' Do. per gall. 193 Shingles inches,pr I
Glue, per lb. 18 TUT. I
Ginger,whiter ace,pervw*\% Ditto 2 feel 912 I
bltia, emmah 16 Ditto $ f, e t dhjfci 16 I ri:
D'tto, ground %24 pipe pr 1000, 60 Im,
p' rli - 3° v'itc-oiihogjUad 45 3,1 .
Gu.-po7i.-Jir. can.tan.per Red oa* ditto 28 I W
13 imjj/i 26 3; P°
Ditto, fun'ghrrd. 2? Rarrcl 30 I tH:
Grtim, Wheat pr bijh J Heading 44 j vei
%'■ 1 siins Otter, b:Hpr piece 351 col
Oa/i, 40 —Mints ' 2g I
Indian Corn, 90293 —Pox t grey SO to j 4 tW
Barley, 120 —Ditto red 110 I
1 eji filled pr. It'. —Martini - c I fay
Buehuhrat per —/V lert O mil
75 ~£:.lrs 3- L
Hzms, pr.il/. 13 60 | . r
imparted, per —Mujl-rati, 37'1 8
3®° —Beaver, j j
American, per lb. 10 —Deer, ir. bair a 33 j niC
Herrings, per bbl. 6 *Tar, 31r. ra//. I '
Hides, raw pr. lit. 8 tog per bbl. 250 I ()r( j
ID —Carolina, Kigali. 250 I ,
Moglhcad hoops per M. 30 Turpentine, per bbl. 340 I '
Indigo, French per lb. I 6; Tobacco, j. Kiuer bejl I '
Carolina, I 100/ i. 7 3 8 A'o.
Irons, fad per ton 13333 Peter/burg 6i 6 Lw;,
Iron, eajiwgs ewt.' 4 Potowmac .
—Pmitfylv&arfcarce Giarf/a .
liO s 126 67 Carolina 4a 5 | '
pertm 97 Tea Hy/on, per lb. vto 2 j 'U^j
3« —liy/on Jh:n, - 83 I eX[)
3.1 —Souchong, . lil n trios
—-baUrcds, 123 Ji —Congo, \ <° Iters
y.nt per rut. 5 ~T-Bohca, , ?
Lard, hogs per lb. 14 Ta/Aw, refned, per lb. I 4 i iCO ]
Leadi,:pigs, per t'.ut. 533 Tin, per box l 6 JO 0J "
7 ram:la, per lb. 10 a 24 tO 1
•"'%>. '3 KrJigreafe, do. I rour
* ; '= 9 T'ertiiiUim, ! r 0
, Leather, foal per lb. s0 Varnish, per gallon,
Irgnum 24 'fax, Bee,,'per lb. ~ tlani
jo iVhale-bone, lor.r,pr !b. Jx d°>
- /} ace, per IK 12 Wine, Madeira pr p. 226 Com
12 la 6 f d
second quality 8 Teneriffc,br «al. Sn I\_
Marble wrought pr foot 60 Port per pibe r Z'iC
Mast fairs ditto 60 Do. in bott. Pr doz level
Afe>/«jP' , jf : 56161 Claret,percaf - »
t, ; 46 *io dent
faur, bt bottles doz. 120 Malaga, i. ,
per dozen, I 20. ° 4 W »y
—man
From IntelligtHcer. nor 1
lomc
THE NUN. as th
THE fun u-ith golden lips imprefs'd the d« p , prefc
'I 1 0?' bfm ' ath dafting oar, e d (fa
As 10-v u the herd upon the dizzy (teep, ,
Tlit found came welcome, fiorn a silent (hore u
Penfivc I foujjlit the Cotivejit's gloomy tow'r.' 1
Aiid witcli'd-the veftajs ioncly taper's trleatrs" be cc
close m tbought and near the taidnight hour ' low
J lizard the oeath-bird's sorrow-boding scream ' M
LiH ! 'tis apa fling bell: it tolls fq flow, " the z
pd oracle of I'wift, iarpreflive woe ; r,: j .
' he veil-clad niters, o'er the fable bier, •
;''fs ,ilr '!«»' dirge and (hed the Clent tear ' 18 ,
' 1 fe cioifter'd rites, by pious duty paid, * tlca '
Awake the heart to farrow o'er the tomb' > Jlood
I. rt tome poor frienulefs, fad, deserted maid, ■
All taily vHfti,™ of monastic gloom. remai
■jy, can the organ's licavee inspiring tones, Pofx
■ y "gKM>ename, veils, or friar* frai-c, V,
•c.m fteeihlcfs flatties deti'd with human bones. 1
j ,cal the deep wound a ioft affeflion puc ' 3 -
(*!• no, this inould'ring pile and «efl»Wn»ve P 3 ."^
. i.c luul tv pcart to inve i " TaiJ,
vy ill ever yield a fond endearing flive, they 1
V;-. fi-rrew i'utks the usetirner to the grave. . God 1
ORLANDO. ycill {
From lit Augusta {Geor.) Chronicle.
■ tu DEBATES IN THE CLUB,
On the prafofed ChrjUnn Convention.
13 —
Mr. Sangaroon. Mr. President, I humbly con
-3- ceivc that the business which is now before us, di
vides itfelf into three propositions. 1, Shall the
Christian Convention be held in Augusta, on the
fiift Tuefdsy in November next. 2. If it is not
then and there holde*, when .and where shall it be.
And 3. What measures (hall be adopted to effeit
3 the great objedt of Jlaylng the waters and prevent- 1
ing them from pafiing aver our streets, or carrying '
30 away our heufes, whether temples or other buildings. (
50 As to the fir (I proportion, the reafonaj&vt/ us its
rejeAion is so obvious, I (hall offer nothmgbn that
head ; but proceed to the second, whicfi is a quifli
on of great magnitude, viz. " ivhen and -where
shall this convention be held ?"—the -when I confi- f
der to be the most important part sf the difcutlion,
for if that is rightly concluded upon, the, where
will be truly immaterial—the ivhen then we (hail
con&ne otirfelves to for the present, and to give us a
a proper conception of this matter, it will be tie* '
ceffary to recur to the original injiitutes of this foci-
ety :—There, Mr. President, it is iaid down as a <j
fundamental maxim in the Prolegomena thereof f;
, 7 " that as the length, breadth and conformation of t
4 no two noses in the world is exadly the fame, so a
0 neither can the ideas, opinions or conclusions of any b
two minds pcrfeiWy eorrefpond—fo, therefore, the e<
enjoyment of opinions unmolested, is a matter of •'
equal right with that of wearing a nose, and hence n
every oppugner of another's opitiioni is to be eon- ft
4 lidered a breaker of the intellectual peace,' and, as a <
4 it were, a puller of thd foal's nose." Now, Mr. fn
' President, as we can never hope for fach a change ei
j in natura rerum, that is to fay, as we 9111 never ex- tl:
2 peel to fee all men's noses of a length, it i»equally
4 absurd ft> go about all Christians to one hi
4 1 " • . u o- -a p
3 hope it is far distant, wheii the affair may be prat- L
ticaWe, that is, when all>fhail have " fhufficd of ty
this mortal coiland, to accommodate tfie refornt- re
! crs, 1 have, keeping this in view, drawn up the sol- fu
' lowing refoluiion, which I submit, -with f eat deft- hi
rence, to the opinion of the members. " an
Kcf.ilved, I hat it is the opinion of the I.ont
iVw'rfClub, that the meeting of the Chrijliau Con• dc
1 ve, uton, be postponed until the day after the pens- w<
ral refurretlioH. -' T . g C
Mr. Bottlemore then rose and said. ] do not tii
mean to tfppufe the> principle of this refoltnion, I ph
object only to the particular day, a.id Mr. President, th
lam of "Pinion, that until the concourse of atom; wt
>s perfeflif compleatej, it would be exceedingly ,be
improper to have any terreflrial fubjedl difcutfed, un
and as this process may con fume more time than m<
we are aware of, I move, that the words " Gene- lar
ral refurreftion" be fhtick out, and the words " day ftr
of judgment" inserted in the roow thereof. yo
Mr. Segai o then got up and fpokc as follows. wi
Air. Prelident, 1 am t\j the fpi- -fm
rit «f the resolution. as to Mr. Bottlemore's amend- ma
ment ; there is a circumstance however which tio
when duly «|»ffji-r«a t will perhaps induLe a father Im:
postponement of the matter in question, and that is, dif
that the day Contemplated in the amendment is the Th
very day on vAich the honorable Charles Fox is to W
come to a fityl settlement with the Jews j now, that mij
j two objefls may not interfere, and that many Jews Bu
who call themselves Christians may have no caufc to too
lay an advantage is taken of their situation, I pro- w h
p.ne that Mr. Bottlemore's amendment may give a| c
way to the following, viz. That the words " day ed 1
after the gene.al rcfurreaion" be struck out, and of
the words » First Tuesday after the day of ludz- dw,
mcnt" be inserted in lien thereof. veri
I he president having put the several questions in ' hur
order, the resolution was adopted with Mr*. %"a- J
ro's amendment and reads thus, ben
RtJd'vtd, 1 hat it is the opinion of the Long exa'
Aos d Club, that ;he meeting of the Cbriflian con latii
b f Postponed until the firft Tuesday alter pail
thi day of judgment." h'j,
Mr. Sangaroou then refumed—tiiking up the is ft
fubjeft as his third propofitisn. The molt obvious poci
expedient (proceeded he) which occurs to me, as fant
most effectual to preveru -the ovoflowingof the <wa- stun
tcrs, &c. is that a refaluiion to this efledt may be her
acoptcd. » That it is the opinion of the Long mot
AOS 4 the best token for good in this cafe pow
to be made, is, by a bank and double ditch thrown who
round the town of Augusta, and that for the efftc- joir.i
:iagof which, all denominations and colors of Chris- thy
:1:1ns and Infidels, in the preein&s of they'd town, 1
10, 011 the firft Tuesday in.eveiy month, until the rem;
wmpletion of the object, furnilh themselves with a Imi
pade, mattock ot hoe; and do eight hours Lou a fi.Lc n'ati
abour each day until the bank aforefaid shall b« gree
zi.ed to the height of eighteen inches above the ftuu
evelof the late fiefh.' doul
- Mr. Cacafogo then rose and said, Mr. Frefi- medi
lent I am opposed to the motion in all its parts ; for plati
vhy . because there it nothing said, about the wo- prea,
nan in it, neither about the friend, of the woman, fion,
'Or about the ferpeut* or even child, I confefs lam he w
omewhat at a lof. to understand this, jn an who
s the friends of tire woman and the serpent are re- ten y
irefe«ted as «t enmity ; now had they been attach- mots
d there would have been n „ myfte.y it : 1 mqve that
qtK e, fcnfe of llltf sbe had as Give
er„n,7 ma ? theJi lrt* e . Whether ,& y are to writi
ow ! ""'"rally so, or as metaraorphors or enqui
Mr. Cant observed Jam of opinion that by Sly
ZTT" " m " nt the whore Who is but if
i v p.f° n j " a "y we know that she of lit
Anltchnjl, and therefore it molt be the ecckfiaf- feffes,
ca.pmvers of the Pope of Rotre figmhcd by the ward
Mr CFadik interupted him with the following htm,
mark. J-f_, man . how will you make the »arri,
ope a ivhore!
The president ealled to order, when Mr. M'San- theR 3
rtlv'aa t 1 Way ,° f rep!y t£> Mr - aud the la
II K T !? er '"« ' U1 fontimeut on the fubjeA ttei v ,
er mean I ' tli£ ** **
odXvW l eP '- rfct:utars true kirk of ealier
odtheyrefpeakingo; ?adw h at kllVs that than,
- ~ "a - t ' le ofScutlaad to bc.fuie J tsachi
' — fae, Mr. Prclidenf, I'll #3*. "it he tr ;
,g. cond tluirfday of Oitober next, tlisre lie a'
meeting had, that a' the world may become true
LUB, Prefbyierians.
Mr. Secretary Carbuncle thjn tofe and observed,
I differ in opinion with the learned polemical gefl«
con tlemen who support the metaphorical conitrut'tions
them offered ; although the ivords feetru plainly
-ll' the '^ a " u^e t0 the retreat of a Lady /ibbtfs who cer
>n the ta '"'y rc! ' re ' nto tbe wlldernefs some time ago
with divers nymphs in her train* 1 think it would
'it be mo '* P rudcnt to proceed ho farther for the pre
effect '" CRt ' n th" mystical and important bufmefs, until
the true intent and meaning of the prcmifes be
. * ascertained by communication from, the reformers.
j7 in ? Which being agreed to, the Club adjourned to
■'gs* Club-in course. Extract from the proceedings,
ot , lts BILLY CARBUNCLE, Sec.
n that
(uifti-
tuhtre ' From the Farmer's Wiikly Museum.
con ft • ~
iffion " a " me " with you, and preach
where unto you, that yejfnuld turn from these •vanities"
i (hail DURING the fjfft stages of Christianity, the i
ire us apostles and the primitives of the church went a
,c ne, bout, like their benevolent Mailer doinj,' good i
s foci- While thus itinerating among thofc and ere- r
ias s dulous tribes icattered over the N eatt, which the day a
iereof spring from on high had not yet visited, many of t
on of themoft familiar ads of these venerated men, would a
,'e, Co appear of a fupcrnatiiral cast. Ignorance invariably C:
f any begets wonder ; that species of it which was excit- ii
the ed in the villages of Palestine, and the oriental ci- f
er of ties,* by the condutt of "the firft Chxiftians, vv/s the p
lence rude admiration of The populace ; and who more f
eon- funk in ignorance than the people of that remote v
d, as »ge ? Every thing beyond their narrow compmhen- o
Mr. lion, would appnar, like magic, and, in eve ry rare
ange exhibition of /power, Gods, and not men, mult be ii
r ex- the agents. # t
Uolly Paul an J Bur:;aba?. (we learn it from their own
> one history) were colleagues in apa'llelhip. and com- f;
puuiu.'n in unit, —rn -i-iyuiSan3*i7crtfe;"t'irti;a ot
prat- Lycaonia, .they preat-hecl the Gospel. The fan&i- t
d of ty of their demeanor would of attach the
f orm rtfpeft of their hearers, and the flighted aft of ft
: sol. such good preachers'would be magnified. Paul, in C
dtft- his walks through the llreets of Lyltra, observed "
arid relieved the impotence of a cripple! Though "
f.onj the healing arts, which the faints were, n:
Con- doubtlj>', seconded by Providence ; yet moral skill t!
cue- were fufiicrejit to make " the lame his crutch fore- o
• go." The men of the city, when they witnefied «i
not this cure, fnppofed it must be effe&ed by aceleflial n
n, I phylitian. They accordingly said and believed that it
ens, the gods had descended inhuman shape. Barnabas c<
lams was exalted into Jupiter, and Paul's eloquence dub- f*
sgly bed him Mercury. Shocked at this impiety, and ti
[fed, unwilling to arrogate any but deferred honour, the ol
;han modest apolties, hearing that the priefls, and gar
ene- lands, and victims were at hand, ran and remon- tf
day ftratsd to the entjiufiaftic people, •' Sirs, why do «'
you these things ? We also are men of likepaflions in
i. with you, and preach unto you, that ye should turn tfc
fpf.--fwm these vanities. Our appefiiance among you tc
rod- may be easily explained. Believing a new and ra- m
nth t tonal iyiVm of religion ourfclves, we arc willing to ti<
her nnpatt «-i y mbrrr. wtietr we tieat your firK, we TV
is, discharge one of the most important duties of man. fp
the There is up oecafion to render us divine honours,
ito We wilh ietvently, that not onlv ouife!#s but ye ot
hat mightiu purity of heart approach the Dh-i.ieMature! ti<
■ivi But that we are mere men, and frail ones lie
to too. We can perhaps foraetimesrure the sick, but gc
ro- "hat course cau we take with the well : those who ne
: ive arz while indeed in body, but tainted and pervert- th
}a,y ed m mind. We may exhort ethers to the prafticc d((
nd ot virtue, and yet be ourtclves among those who of
ig. dwell caielefsly. Are not luch beings men ' Yea pa
verily, we not only (e f , but feel the wecknefs of ial
;iq human natunc.
ga- Every age has its errors. Good pieschine and an
bcnevoliat adions, in the opinion of barbarians, cf
> n S e *a» men to Gods. Among a poliftied and l'pecu evi
.2 neither the found homilies of the
ter pailon, _ nor the chaiitics at his door avail, unless Li
hn utufarm fralhce is as divine as his ptecepts. He is i
he u fecrelly thought, fometimcs openly called a hy. of
,us pocrite ; and men doubt the reclitude and pica- an<
as fan trie fa ot virtue's path, btcaufe he sometimes dim
•a. iturabies or turns aside. But viitue is the fame let bre
be her followers treat her as they may, and if it pro _ the
r 'S mote " llr , be «"? 'o g<> where this charming pli.
ife power .cad«, if you find a million, r.iy good friends, fift
vn who only /hew the roui ihe ha. taken "without as <
c, joining her train, let not such inconfiileucy prevent so i
if. thy pilgrimage. y r aU .
n, These reflations are suggested, by the common our
i' Cma 't"T", "I'TZ P raa,Ttd = !>e preaches nitj
a 1 m.ght believe his dodnues." But his wild de- 1
,l c nations are no impeachments of the rule. It is a cen
5 . Kreedfthat man is at best, a feeble being, why pre;
it fiuuld an individual m bLck be required to pofFcis diat
- OU , ble ! ,of him in g ? Habits of ahh
mediation, ot ttudying the fc, iptures, of contetn- fied
)r the operations of Providence M use him to whi
a - preach gravely. But Hill he is k man, of like p a s. cut!
,' fio.u With you, ye captious hearers; and, like you, ing
u t W ' [ omt ; u 7 s them. But believe one ot t
h who has looked upon the world for four timej wor
i morf earS rf rff ' S " eVCr ' Hdu! g ed without re- ling
t T u n u er 'T 1 hts then is tirt»e's praise, cent
:t G-veU 0 - ""I ght ;- >•« trum P £t charms! p Z
is Give th-, preacher credit tor the morality of his bed
o v lungs, exhibit that molality in your lives, and R
,r enquire not too cau«| ufly whether his life and doc- goo<
' cedent. Pollibly they are not ; pof. fZ
j is "in weakness arid wanderings often •» the l
; «f"l h "r ~rt r IJbcKm ™ b "' j
e t like passions with you. The candid Paul con. anv
- feffes, that he del.g!,ted in the law, after the in- elds
C r/u 1 h, ' S j^g^cntwa,convinced of view
tne u.ility o. good moials; but there wa.i a law in we n
' 8 mcmbcr « ynnj, a word of singular emphasis sense
f lite luw of hi. mfnd. adds, in' Z,
hi. rapid lop, that whi.-h 1 do, I allow not. If f rom
• hen Ido that which I would not, I confefs unto T
he law that it is good. An adept in every my- mint'
a "'/< I 1 " 3" ''T'r' a " d fa « ac '^ s »ot holy cau It
r ( " t \ P'"- afe hke the following, Ic, , how
h 3 7 tvv "ty what were good to be done p«c,
#£ * IH£ L *Y PREACHER. i rcioi,
From late Engli/b papers.
THE EPISTLE from THE YEARLY MEETING,
vi(l, HS.LD IN LONDON,
ll)(ig By adjournments, from the ijtli to the 25th of
ttte fifth month, 1796, iudufivc.
ccr
ago T" : ", c Quarterly and Monthly Meetings of Friend/
on Id # Great-Britain, Ireland and djeivhcre.
pre- Dear Friends, .
until wjr g ßt j ottr f r i,. n( 3 s affa ; n ennaged to fend you
the salutation of-our love 111 Chrilt, dsfiring ttst
' erß - as we have been careful not 10 address you in for.'
1 to mality, nor withoyt a freth belief that it ig our du
nS'> ty, so ye may not consider this our'epiftle as a eu-
Picmary matter, nor read in that disposition ihat is
always seeking after some new thing ; but may he
willing to consider what parfs of it arc appli&ble
,to own refp«aive Hates ; and let the expreffi- 4
' / / Uj ons of our concern for your present and everlafiing
welfare, receive and retain a fjffiuetu place in \ ..ur
the minds.
ta- The accounts of the fufferings vfiich have been
- sustained by our friends in Great-Britain, it now
:re- reported to this meeting, amount to £. 8,658 ■
lay about i.oooof wliich confilh of diitrai.us foi
of the late afleffrrient for manning the navythe refl,
uld as usual, are chiefly for tythes, and demands of a
bly firailat natu»e. The fufferihgs brought
:it- in from lielar.d is £. 5,303, Aa d as we are In
ci- formed that an opinion publicly prevails, that the
Lhe purpose of these accounts is in order thet the fuf
ote ierings may be leimburfed, we desire friends every
ote where, as oecsfion may offer, to contradict this
en- opinion, which hath no foundation in truth.
are . The friends mentioned in oar last epistle to be
be imprisoned on account of our teitimony againlt
tythes, Hill remain prisoners in the county jail of
wn York ; objeds themfelve?, as well as their afflitfed
Sh- ■ treatment so rigorous.
; he We have this year received epistles from our
of friends of the yearly North and tfoutb
in Carolina and Georgia, of Pennfylva
■ed nta, of New-York aud jTf New-England—evinc
gh ing their continued concern to fupport'our lefti
re, monies and our fhriftian difciplinc. The inhabi
rill tants of the Continent, dwelling in fertile regions
re- oace possessed by different tribes of the Indian na.
"Ed lives, are doubdefs bound to regard them with be.
ial nevolence : accordingly we find our friends engaged
lat man undei taking to furmfh them with fame of th«
)as comforts of civilized life, A fund ij raiting to
b. f&pply the expewce of inlltufting them in agucul
nd lute, in mechanic arts, aud some ufeful branchea
he of learning.
ir- On examining into the (late of our society in
in- these nations, we find cause to believe that, in ma
do ny parts, the attention of friends is gradually fix.
ns ing, mote and more closely, 011 the excellence of
rn the fevcral testimonies which we are required
; )U to bear: and we are persuaded that, were our
•a. members a'niverfally mine loosened in their affec
to tions from the profits and the fiiendfhins of the
ve vrorttf," the Standard of frutTi woo Id be more con
n. fpicuoufly and availingly displayed.
■». Let us consider, brethren, what it the cause of
e, our dissent from the prevailing opinions and prac
e. tices of the age. Is it not that we moll surely be
es lieve that our faith ig more confident with the evaa
it gehcal purity of the primitive times; and our man.
10 ners less liable to promote an attachment to.a world
t- that pafleth away ! How then stair we set the can
:c dlfk that hath been thus mercifully lighted in any
10 of us, under the bed or the bushel; jiving upany
a. part of our tellimony, he it ever lb (mail, for ths
jf iake of qafe, or of outward advantage i
The beloved apoflle declared, that Ood is light;
d and in hire is no darkness at all." A mr.nifefiation
t, of tjiis divine light, in infinite rs C ; C y, is given to
1- every man, to lead him out of the miftr) of fallen
e nature, unto the Eternal Fountain 0 f Life and
Is Light. In every society of people, iVwhich^lace
e is given to any kind of tiiirightcoufnefs. an eclWe
•- of the light neceflarily follows as far as thecomplr.
- ance with evil extends ; and, if this (late be conli- \ ■ I
s nued in, spiritual death muljt ensue. Wherefore,
t brethren, in your condud as individuals, and i'ty_
- the pirt which ye take in theexetcife of the disci.
r pline effablifhed amonglt us, be ye animated to re.
, fift every appearance of evil ; remembering, that,
t as our Heavenly Father cannot unite with iarkncJs,
i so neither muil those unite with it; who desire to
attain fellowfliip with Him : in which felWftiip
1 our happiness confillith, both in time aud in eter
, nity.
In these timcsof worldly commotion, the con. •
■ cern Hill remains with u», that our brethren may be
prcferved from j Miiing with any thing that, imme<- J
1 diately or remotely conduces to pramote it.- And
although of late, we have from year to Year, tefti
■ fied ourdeftre that Friends may take no part in that r.
which genders ftrife, we fiill fear all are not fuffici
ently cautious, or sensible cf the advantage of mix
ing-as little as possible tvith the fluctuating politics
of the times. For truly, were all concerned to
work out their own falvaiioii with fear and tremb
ling, the mind would be piefcrvjd on its proper
centre; and to mix with the muliitude, in their
puriait of the favourite object of any patty, would
be dreaded tather lhan defircd. ▼
Refpefting the slave-trade, though we have 110
good tidings to proclaim, we feei unwilling to pais
it over iu (ilcnce. Asa body, we have been among
the foreraolt to expose its turpitude ; and, although
it doth not appear at piefent (o be our duty to take
any public Heps as the advocates of this degraded
class of our fellow-creatures, we Hill contiwue to
view the commerce with unabated abhorrence : and
we desire that r.o one, once totiched with a
letife of its complicated v.-oc, may fufferlis being
thus dreadfully protrafled, to efface the impicflion
iioni his memory, or fympaihy from his heart.
I his reeling hath been very large, and f>ur
mmdshavF been much excrcifed in a travail for the
cau!e of truth. O, Frieutis of evetj description,
how would ve coi:tfibuie, riot only to your own
peace as individuals, but to render our afTrmbliei
undei thefandiio.i of ilie Great Moftcr, fejfons of
I iej_.; t i;ig, wrre ye sii to be engagedin caractt^each• e for iiimfdf, to do *way the hurtful and hinder- larger
;.h? things, which, ye must be feofiMe, are yet to tained
t;t Tfoui)d*within our borders! longin
"Finally, dear Ftienda. remember the apostolic fpedtei
declaration, " f° un dation °f God llandeth captaii
f lI!e having this seal, The. Lord knoweth them Collin
that' are his." Strive therefore to become such, by ed in (
obedience to hia holy law. It hath been our uni- nies—
form sna constant testimony, that God ha 3 vouch- ble th.
fa'fed hia grace and goodfpirit unto the children of and gi
iii;n universally, as the means of our fatiafadtion.— ciiizer
May ye therefoie, in your several degrees of growth,. Th
evinee, and recommend your belief in it, by dwell- town,
Jng under its holy influence —Again, in Gospel as- ten pc
fedion, we salute you, and -bid you farewell. that ■
ed, at
Were any well meaning bookseller to reprint La- York
timer's Sermons, it is possible, nay, probable, he
would he laid hold of for libellous doctrine. .The
very title would terrify the Church and King men
of the present day,'foi\thus is it worded i bl *
» Publiflied for the benefit of the good people "d 1
of England,, all the discourses of that Right Re. wh,!ni
verendt and faithful Martyr of 'Jesus Chrill, Mas ™co
ter Hugh Latimer, the firft protestant Bilhop of Umt<
Worcester ; being an honest reprehension in life and y
manners, of carehfs Kings, prodigal Princes, cor■ We.t
- ,vbt Lords, unjuji Judges, time-serving Magnates, re -*
and backsliding chriftianj."
—■—j n },afc
\ _ „ - dates
Philadelphia, be j,
SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER a, 1796 ,
— " B
Married, on Saturday evening the loth inft. by the 1 4'^
Rev. Mr. Uitick, Mr. James ENEfER to Mils Mary on tl
Baskervilie. B
tOn Tuesday evening the sot'n mftant, Mr. Aux
Samuel Coo per to Mils Mauy Babe We
,On Thursday the 2ld inft- Mr. Thomas re 11 e
&»«» to Miil RA'cau E*v::< All of Uuicjgfc then
com
From a late Paris Paper.
DEATH OF THE BRAVE CAROUGE, wh 'J
ANECDOTE. > J*
The death of the brave Carouge, a naval lieuce- 27"
nant, and commander of the coerctte L'AtTembiee an
Nationale, is one of those events which ouj; t co g
be handed down to posterity. The following ac- ort
count taken from the proces verbaus of the ip
wreck of this corvette, arrived on the i6th rrutti
<jor in the 3d* year of the French Repu ie, a.i
rony be add.d to the numerous examples of generous ■
jntrtpidity in Frenchmen, and brutal ferocity in t e o
EnglifK. Carouge finding hitnfelf pursued by an the
Engtilh fixate of the largest tize, determined to that
Tun aground kontr'thaa become a prey to the eme- -
my. Th« corvette touches the recks which are u
the entry of the rive* 3e Treguier. Carouge pie
fervea the utmost composure, cats dowa hit malls, °'
and gives orders that the boats which had been put .'
to sea to take the veflrl in tow, (hould proceed im- lrn
mediately to land the "ships crew. He is earnetUy
requested to land himfelf, but in vain, "Jjjyduty
and honor, replied he oblige me to remaw "the talt ,
on board ; save yourfclves, Lamat my pod. Ihe
boats pick up a part of the By and by the , r «
corvette founders, and the brave Carouge, with the
few brave companions who were \eft behind, tunk . ■
to the bottom. Every effort was put in practice to •
save them. Ensign Rogeiie tried to fectire the
captain. 1 have done fays he, in his declaration, all
in my power to prefervehim ; I held him a cOnlidet r
able time by the hair, while he eontinuedf aft to
one of my legs. But perceiving his strength tailing '
he let me go, faying, " you will penfn with, me,
save yourfelf my friend, 1 will not be.the caule of
your death." t | ( ]
And what were the English doing all this time ?
they fired upon these unfortunate wietches, and up- 0
on the boats which went to pick them up ; a num-
ber of bullets having fell among 1 the lailors
who wtre swimming. The dispatched
three boats to t'ake pofffflion of the corvette and
her crew, who discovered nothing but the wrecks
of the vefTel and the dead coiples of a few unfor- m
tu iate men, whom their brave comrades were una- th
„V ble to carry off. The remainder reached Ihore in Fi
spite of the English musketry. ap
' Vi
BY THIS DAY's MAIL.
c
CHARLESTON, September 5. j 0
In Saturday's paper we mentioned, that it ap
pearert by a Philadelphia paper that General Pinck- jj
ney was spoken of there as minister plenipotentia
ly to the French Republic, in the place of Mr.
• ' Monro, who is recalled. Wa are since informed n|
by gnod authority, that the general received notice u
of his nomination to that important station from
the President of the United States, as early a", the. jj
27th of July last, and that he has gone to Pliila- C(
ladelphia in eotifequence of the nomination. p
As the latest accounts from Europe hold out the | {
profpeA of a peacc beitfg near at hand, between t j
the French Republic, and the continental powers - s
Rill at war with her, it is more than probable, on r ;
this event taking place, that new regulations res- w
pefting commerce will be brought forward, and it j- (
may be neceiTary sot America to renew her trea- j
tics with the French Republic and ttu: other pow- j
srs. Should this be the cafe, it murf be highly fa- t
tkfadlory to the citizens of the United States that c
the negoctations are tobe entrusted to so able a ctvjl- £
ian, and one who has always evinces that he has c
the honof and interest of his country finctrely at a
heart.
HARTFORD, September 19. [
Lad Tuesday was brought to trial before, the fu- 2
premecoui;t in this city, Richard Done, a native of :
Ireland, for the murder of Daniel M'Evers. On t
the following was found guilty by the Jury,
and has Tcceived fcntence of 1 rl, which is I
to be executed oh the 14.h day ci December next.
' - ' I
Vv >IITESTOWN, Sept em per .
T«<lvc years Whitelttown was then .
* ''
larger than the whole state of Cocnefticat) con- feif
tained only two families—Yefkrdsy the tioops be- eren
longing to_colonel Doohttle's regimeat, were iii- . i- c
fpeited by generaL Van Home. They confided of ed by \
captain Piatt's company of light horse, and captain polite,
Collin's company of light infantry, which appear- throuil
ed in complete uniform, and four infantry compa- 'he
nies—-amaunting i« jhe whole to 400 men, and dou- al f. iec
ble that numbe.' of fpeftators. Their appearance that hi
and good behaviour merit the thanks of ever'y good but th,
citizen* . , Ir
The part of the state which compriied Whitel- " e
town, twelve years ago, and then eonfifted of about anew
ten persons, can now produce as many regiments, Cre^,;
that contain 400 men each, and better organix /
ed, armed and equipped, than the ,city 01 New- gnculi
York can produce. , f" 3
it is u
ALBANY, September 16. people
A number of bales of goods, m«rked, »' For the nelghl
Six Nations." h<»ve been lately received in this city, hauflil
a«d transmitted by land to Scheneftady, from wtaltl
whence they will be lent in large boats to the In'di- nature
an country. These goods ire on account of the nefsj
■ United States. .
The electioneering campaign ha® opened in the public
Western diftrid.' A large meeting in Oi fego, judge slaver;
Peck in the chair, rcfolve to support Willinm Coj- Ar
per for their representative in This dif- to be
tnft is very cxtenlive, and contains nearly 100,000 the 3
- inhabitants. There will probably be several candi- tons t
dates ; but the principal competitors, it is said, will local
be judge Cooper, and J.rmes Cochran, Esq. 11.
with (
NEW-YORK, September 22. into <
' But two persons died at Newbury port from the £[
e 14th tothe 17th inft. of the malignant fever ; and t h e f
r on the latter date, only one perfou was sick. the n
By the ship Diana, arrived on Saturday fiom all ci
:. Aux Cayes,,whieh place (heleft the 28th ot Aug. beat
We are informed that the delegates there had ar- ; Q wr ,
3 retted Pierre Ganon, formerly civil ordonnatewr
there, fenthjro and Pierre Duval, formerly ceun
comptroller of the piarin?, on boaad the corvette, ] eaV e
the African, .without doubt tp be sent to Cape or o;
Francois, to render an account of their condud proc!
whilfl in office. * flia 11
By the fariie vefifcl we are informed that on the hand
•. 27th uit. La Franc, a man of colour, command- i D g 1
■ e antcf St. Louis was arretted by order of the dele- < uC ( 0;
o gates, but cfcaped from the hands, of two officers, by ;
ordered by General DeFourneau so conduct him f rom
>. on board the Aftican. mem
j. After making his escape, he called out, to arms! burs
d to arms ;by whieh means a number of his friends c'nik
i S were-foon assembled, with which he took polTtffion imp]
ie of the fort and battery, at L'lflett, fiom wticnte s o l
,n they tired upon a party of the regiment of Berwick, bons
o that had been fetit to ftize him, killed one or two V
e . men, and wounded the commanding officcr and two t ) ia t
re men. , dele
e . The delegates, desirous to avoid greater mitchief, g ell .
8 thought it proper to order Gen. RigauJ to execute w bu
llt ' their order', and therefoie sent off an.exprefe to p rc
n . him at the camp before Iroij, which poll he had \
for some time been laying siege to; and u vv»s tho't bon
, , that on this account he had abandoned the attack, {
aj,aTcVuiiriJ Aiili u. Thsy l,yn
are confirmed in this opinion by the ii.ence that tiy,
he 'ergned in the fort and works at Irois, at the time ~v ,
they palled, and by the burning of what they sup- 1
posed to be works and bufli, conllrudied by Rigaud c ; tl
, 0 on an eminence commanding the East fide ot Irois HII
he k a y* ' lU '
~ The delegates finding themfclvcs unable to get
3 poffiffion of Jeremie, either by force, fraud, or their p r(
£Cr proffered amnetty, had detached a party oi' 209 pic- an(
U ' ked men towards the settlement of Plymouth, i.i
" S possession of the Biitith, with orders to burn,' def- e j
llC r vroy and carry off every thing from the deffticelifs «h (
° plantations, and we have reason to believe that in
, this species of savage warfare, they have been but
too fuccefsful. _ _ fqi
Two BritiHi frigates were lying at anchor in Irois wl
lm " bay, and an armed brig got under way as the Diana t h,
was passing, and Hood along (hore towards Jeremie ,b,
without taking any notice of him. pr<
cks A gentleman, yesterday arrived from Jamaica, p e
for- informs, that belides thp La Renommee, of 44 guns,
ina- there were lying in Kingston harbour, three other _
:in French frigates, lately taken by the men-os war
and frigates on station. The prizes aic said c
to be of considerable force—alfo, that Gencial
Whytej lately arrived, and now commander in chief
at St. Nicholas Mole, had sent the Leviathan,
Hannibal and Canada of 74 guns, to Monto
Chrifti, where they fo»n arrived, and the Spaniards S.
surrendered the town to the British commissioners.
a ?" The inhabitants took the oath of allegiance to the S>
ick- JJing of Great-Britain, they have deputed commif- E
ltla " fioners to the Mole, requeuing to become fubjett to
r " his Majefiy's government : There were a great v
m . number of Spairilh troops at Monto Chrifti, ready vi
IIICC to defend their country against any attempts from
rom Sonthonax and his partisans, to invade or ditturb
the- the peace of the colony. The town of Cape.Fran- rr
cois, which is the residence of Sonthonax, and ca- h
pital of French St. Domingo, is 011'y fourteen E
;t h e leagues from the Mount, and plainly vifihle from F
veen t bence in a cleat day. The town of-Monto Chrifti b
w e fs is situate about sixteen hundred yards from the sea, ft
', on r jf eß as an amphitheatre on the fide of the "coast,
re s" which, 'round the bay, is very high ground ;ft is b
IC * '' four hundred yards fquare—forty years ago was 3 I
trea ' free- port of gicat moment, in time of war, valily a
)0W " frequented by enterpriting traders, chiefly from the t
Y American continent, who had unremitted inter- 1
th*' course with the merchants, then in great numbers
fettled at this place, which clearly evinced its pre- f
:ha 6 eminence to all others for the residence of spirited a
ly at and speculative advcßturers. 1
Di.' Barrett, an eminent physician of Charleston,
in a late publication fays, " For my part I have 1
been uniformly ot opinion, that the epidemic which
e fu- afflidi the Northern slates, originated in the South, i
ve &f and is now, by re-action, vibrating so that point, 1
—On from an efTential sympathy inheient in nature.''
Jury, Last Wednesday morning fe-'nnighr, a most i
is (hocking and truly lamentable affnir t«ok place in
next. New-Haven. A Mr. Benjamin Haywood, a young
gentleman belonging to Charleston (South Caroli
aa) who had received his education at Yaie-Col
then lege, put an ctid to Lis cxtfttuce by (hooting hiro-
feif -with * pistol through tf:e Head : he lay in tlw Havre,
greatest distress for (We.:)! hoyrsbeforehe expired, conceal
He was a \oung man who was very much elteem- Mi ■
ed by all who kww him. He was graceful and fliip, h
polite, affable and engaging ; arid a true philac fend jn
tbropiiK . J 1 " 1 0 '
Though he left 'feverai letters wuh a confideftti- Lapt I
al f: iend of hit, we have not been able to learn iordied
that he gave any particular reasons for his rashness , tron,
but that he had been long determined upon it. Cochra
Trinflated for the Minerva. given t
Weobferved that the Direflery hid announced <he Un
a new feftjval to*the Parisians. The following ce- vid Pat
Cree has been publVfl)& relative to this fubjeft. Virgin
The Executive Dirc&ory, considering that if a- he is di
griculture fee the Si ft of arts, it is more efpeciaily <;nd gi
so in a republic, covering a va!t estnut of territory f t,.e pr
it is that alone which can insure the liberty of a taking
people, and fuppoit it, when at the dependence of time tc
: neighboring nutans, it is the primary and inex
, hauftiklc source of public prosperity and national
i wealth ; that in substituting the veal enjoyments of Ship I
- nature to the h&itious wants of luxury and idle- Brig I
: ness; it heaps up a Gmplicily and purity of man- /
nets; confideiing, in fhoit, a forgetfulnefs ef the 1'
t public honors due to agriculture, as sure marks of Snow
e slavery, and corruption of the people, do decree On
Art. 1. The feftival of agriculture, appointed Eiiglif
- to be kept on the loth Thermidor, by the law of Jamau
3 the 3 ! (hairbe cefebrated in a'l the Can- fleet,
i- tons of 'the Republic, with all the fplendpr *vhich bound
11 local circumltances may permit. her m
11. The municipal adminidrations are charged t'.amag
with the r.eceffary dispositions to carry the fame fleet v
into effect. . * °[} h <
e 111. The adminidrations, the commiffioner_ of whieh
** the executive power, the condituted authorities, vanna
the national guard in ai'l out of duty ; in (hjrt, been 1
® all citizens and their refpe£live wives aflembled by receiy
I beat of drutp snd trumpet, (hall arrange themfeives fitting
r " in order upon the public fquaie. * j two t
ar IV. About a few dtps from the altar of the drawi
II country, a plough ft-.alltc placed, <i«eor»ttd witl. I fleet i
e » leaves of trees and flowers, snd drawn by hoifesjand c
[ ,e or oxen. In the communes where a car may be I This
ft procured, -it (hall Mow the plough, upon which capta
-fliall be mounted a flattie of liberty, holding in one ihe fl
he hand the horn of plenty, and with the other point- coast
d" ing to the implejnciUs husbandry, heaped up I fail
le- u tfore it in the car. The plough (halfbe preceded any -
r5 » by a group of twenty four husbandmen, cholen Ito th
im from among the mod aged of the Canton, com- He 1
mendable by the conllancy and fuccefjs of their la- J turet
s! burs t they (hall be prectded by their wives and
>ds children. Every person shall hold in one hand an Y<
on implement of f.ufbandry, and in the other a band- trow
ice f u i 0 f flowers, ears of corn and tn-coloured rib
bons. '. . . &
no V. The municipal adminiftvation (nail point out J mon
iv® tliat individual among the huibar.dmea who moil j g t
deserves to be set up as an example by his intelh- St
gence) activity and good condutt, and during the J Pbi
jte whole ceremony he (hall be featcd by the fide of the J mal
to President. . J
lad VI. The President (hall deliver a difcourie in I
o' l honor of the object of the _ J ,
ck, VII. With the found of music intermixed with«
rey WJnns. iffi pro ,cffio.V tiuli advance into t!te cSUn- T Slot
hat ty, and anange themfeives in a field which the j
iltlc i; ; unieipaliiy lhall dilpote for ihat-purpolr. I
jp- VIII. i'he (hall mix with the armed S
aud citizens: and upon afigjval given, they (hall makr j Brc
ruiS <tn immediate exchange of their tmpleme.its ot theiv J '•
liufbandry for their firelocks. i I ]
g et IX. Tu the foui.dj of liyrnns and trumpets, the I
heir p re Gdcnt (ball fmk the plough(harc in .the ground, j ha ,
P' c " 3r.d turn up a furrow. Ifift
.in X. TIW laborers (hall return the firelocks deck ca]
del- cd with flowers and ears of coin, and take back I
tkfs ifceir utensils, upsn the top of which shall appear j Q
t in til colored ribbons flying J
but XI. The procession (hall return to the public I
fqqarc : tht president pud the liufoandmeo honored j
Irois wlL h t hc reward, shall depbfit upon the altar of j(h
iana t hc countrv, all the agricultural utensils, and covet Icc
:mie ,htm with ears of corn, flower* and the various J T
produalons of the earth) this ceremony (hall be at
a i ca performed to the founds of trumpets and songs. tc
XII. The fefti.yal (hail conclude with dances. fc
ither p
fitld ejZ£TT£ ot THE VMITSD STATES MAB.INE ItST. I
neial — j n
chief PHILADELPHIA, ScptemUr 24.
oto ARRIVED, . days,
iards Sloop Industry, Wharton, Antigua 19
Betsey, Lloyd, V.rgm.a 6 .
> ihe Schr: Three Sillers, Smith, f-.ew York 8
imif- Bug Diana, South worth, _ B f ßn 1, J
:«to Ship Clerimont 01 Wilmington, (N. L.) arn-
ved at Liverpool from Hull, before the S.vift,arri
•eady ved here, failed from thence.
f rom Portsmouth, (n. h.) Sept. 15. '
(turb Arrived fch'r Zilpha. from Tobago, }. Flagg,
Fran- msder, 23 days passage. Aft# days previous to
i ca- his leaving the ipni, Wlent in there by the Fury,
rteen Britilli floopDt war, the (loop Independence, John r
from Prince mailer, of Philadelphia, from Cayenne, (
Irifli bound Trinadad. Captain and crew turned on
e sea, (hore,-Cargo f<rid to be very valuable. _
coast, Arrived here lad evening, the Friendftnp oflNew
-lit is b"ary-Port. captain Thomas Smith, in 9 days from
was a Halifax, having been sent in there for adjudication,
vastly and after paying cost and charges, which amounted
M the to near 2000 dollars, was permitted to proceed
inter- Brings nothing new. ,
mbers A number of paffeugers came in the Friend (hip
s pre- from Halifax, who had their vessels sent in there
lirited and condemned with the-ir cargoes, without any la
lisfa&ory trial, or even prt»f.
[efton, Among the pafftnger. are, Mr. Leonard Smith,
have Newbury-Port; Mr. Sanger, of Baltimore; Mr.
which Bonner and Mr. Arthur Jones, of _ Philadelphia ;
Jouth, Mr. Holfwilders, «f Amllerdarn, lait from Sun
point, Ha] j f>x> (! , e g th ; n ft. the following vef
-1 mod feis sent in for adjudication, viz. _
ice in Ship Carlisle, of Baltimore, tor Rotterdam, a
voting brig trom the lde of France, for Baltimore; a
faroli brig from Surinam for Philadelphia, was cleared,
Col- afjer paying cofi* and charges, which Amounted to
; hire- > 2,000 dollv; *he (hip irir, of New-Vork, fiom
** > \
&
■ Havre, witfi (Sit. T godds. to b*
concealed among jke hlr, • .
Mr. Jones, a gentlemen pafTenger in the fnend
fhip, hij a-ltd of perfuns names in America, who
. fend information to Halifax of all the veflels they
hear of, which fail from the United State*, that
Cant Cochran, of. the Thetis frigate, may be in
i fonhed of the {ame, and fend them in for auju,.iea
: tvoit. Paper* have been intercepted from Captain
Cochran, containing a multiplicity of information
given to.him by persons styling themftlves au/.ensot
i the United States. Among the informers are D*.
■ vid PatHrfon and Samurl Fleming, of Norfolk, in
Virginia. When Mr. Jones reaches Phtl.idelpb'a,
- he is determined to-puHiiftt all their names at
f and give fume inteiefti.ig information relatiA t»
; the proceedings of the counts of juftke; in*
a taking paffcg? immc^iirciy - in ihc .stage, had net
f time to furnilh us with it.
Charleston, Sept. 5. j
I v ENTERED.
f . Ship Butler, Jones, St. i homzs a
- Brig Beaver, Cook, Wilmington
1- Amfterdarn, Scott, Amfteidam
e Fame, Izath, Made"-*
,f Snow Polly, Reilly, PhiladelpUi*
On Saturday latt anchored at Fort John.-on, .the
d Erfiglilh brig Henry, captain Fox, in 40 days from
>f Jamaiaa. She failed with the aonreward boanu
1- fleet. She is a return transport in balljft, and was
h bound t« Portsmouth, England, but having fprunj
her mainmast, has come to tlu« port to repau Iter
d damage. Captain Fox informs, that when the
te fleet was off the Havannah, the Brinfh commander
of the convoy was spoken to by a Spa*ilh
as whieh informed, that there were then off the Ha
1, vannah, three French 74 gun (hips ; that he had
t, been boarded by the admi.al the day before. Oa
>y receiving this information, the Bruifh convoy, con
es fitting of thtf Intrepid, a 64, the Sovereign of 50,
I two frigates, and two armed Eatt India ships, were
le 1 drawn together, & did not pay tliejattention to the
tv> j il-f t tHay ItaJ UKe ; in eonfpquence of ' rip
es J and contrary winds, it became much Scattered.—
be This was about the zad of August ; on the 23d, -
ch I captain Fox wa3 much to leeward ot the body of
ne I the fleet which appea/:d to be (landing along the
nt- coast of Cuba ; he then saw fixteeri or twenty
up I fail of the fleet to leeward of him, and without
led any veflel of war being with them ; he fiood over
fen I to the Tortugas and has not fcen any of them since.
m-1 He knows nothing of any of the fleet being cap
la- I tured.
mu j Baltimoiu, September 22.
an I Yesterday arrived brig Eliza Johnt'on, C.tjit. Clozicr,
ad- from Rochelle, which place he left on the nth or
< August. Captain Closer brings nq news, nor any
' J j yapert later than the 12th ef Jnly.
Sunteniber loth, spoke the ship Eag:am of Balti-
BUt | more.
lolt | September 14, spoke sloop President of Bolton.
:l!i September 18, spoke brig Peggy, Capt. Baker, from
the I Philadelphia, out days—all bound to Cowes and a
■he maiket.
j New-York, Sept. 2.3. •
.• ARRIVED. Days.
Brig Elefla, Clark, Petit Trau, 19
... Jchr. Tryal, Hand, Richmond, 7
" Ub I Mercury, Norfolk, 4
I Sloop Rliabow, Hording, Savannas, 16
the I ' Experiment, Loten, Vurk's-I.fiand, ax
Kingston, (Jam.) August 15.
med j Saturday his majesty's sloop of war Jamaica, Capt.
lake j Brooking arrived at Port Koyal, ia 8 days from Cape
heir | Nichola Mole.
Major Gillefpie and Mr. C. Cole came down in her.
, t Before the Jamaica quilted the Mole, a veflel arriv
j ed there wilh the pleasing information of Adm. Mann
| having fallen in with Adm. Richery't fquaSron, cori
j filling of fix fail of the line, the whole of which he
leek J captured.
>peai I GERMANTOWN ELECTION DISTRICT,
iblic j Mv. Fen no,
ored I A MEETING of the Freemen of the town
ir of J {hips of Germantown, Roxborough and Briftoi,
cover! conipofing this Diftridl, is.requelted to be held oil
irious j Thurfdsy next, the 29th inft. at 3 o'clock, P. M«
all be j at the sign of General Washington in German
gs. j town, to fix on a ticket to be run in this Diftrift
rs. for the County of Philadelpßia, in the choice of
I Governor, and of Elc&ors of a President and Vice
President of the United States, one Reprefenta
tST. ,; ve Congress, and a Representative in the Ge
neral Afiembly of the State.—The accafion is im
portant, and it is hoped the meeting will be nume«
rotis and refpe&able.
days. SUNDRY ELECTORS,
ua 19 September 24.
inia 6
on k i6 On Monday morning next will be pub
) arri- liflied,
t,arri- ]V Ih LtA M COBBETT,
Opposite CJirift Church,
*5- THE POLITICAL CENSOR
Flagg, pOR SEPTEMBER.
10U8 to containing,
Fury, The LIFE of THOMAS PAINE, interspersed with
!, John remarks and reflexions; and
yenne, Observations on the Pamphlets lately pub
ned on lifted, against P. Porcupine.
September 84. 3
fNew- 11 ——r"
New-England Rum,
ou'itcd h©gfl>e»ds r
cttd— Wclfh's best Boston Chocolate,
And
■ndfhiD HYSOK-SKIN TEA, in quarter thefts,
'" a ' m P FOR SALE, xr
n lhere A. M-RPLii iSR.W. MORRIS,
any fa- No. 60. Dock-street.
Sept. 14. eo4t>
Smith, " —^—■
V^ r : . For Sale,
T I Thc SL OOP
INDUSTIIY,
ins vef- Burthen about ;c» bbls, a good vef^
f e '> Wl 'l he ready to take in * car
dam, a S° two or thret
n f s; , a A few hhds. ANTIGUA RUM, received by
cleared, sloop, and now landing at Morton's wharf. Apply te
amed to THOMAS GKEIiVES,
k, fiom| Btft. 14. d6t. No. 73) Walnut-ftrect.
?)LANDING,
From on board the Brig REBECCA, Dominic Divine,
V '*?afier, at PhiHiS Care's Wharf, and for Sale by the ]
' Subibribcr,
~ London Particular Madeira WINE, ,
In Pipes, Hqgfheids and Quarter Calks.
There are in the above parcel 10 Hhds. of CHOICE
OLD WINE, fit for immediate life.
Robert Andrews,
Sept. 6. mw&f No. 86, So. Wharves.
THIS DAY PUBLISHED,
Ey J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
(Price 12 i-2 Cents) c
The President's Address e
To the People of ths United States,
Ann6unclng his intention of retiring from public life
at the; expiration of the present CQnftitutionar term of -i
presidency. fJ
September 20. d c
JUST PUBLISHED,
From the Press of MOREAU DE ST. MERY,
And to be had at the principal Bookfellefs in the city,
(Price five iive-penny bits)
A Humourous Pamphlet y entitled
The Political MafTacre; »
Or, Unexpected Obfet-vations on the' Huttings of our
present scribblers.
By JAMES QUICKSILVER, Author of the Bine Shop.
Emtyelliihed with a curious Caricature.
Sept. 19. dtf
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE. I
No. 63 South Third street, opposite the national new Bank. t(
SAMUEL M FROUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
.have entered into co-partnerlhip, under the firm of j,
VRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the bufinejs of Brokers,
Conveyancers and CommifTion merchants. They buy arid Cl
fell on commiflion every species of stock, notes of hand, n
bills of exchange, hctafes and lands, &c. f c
Money procured on jlepofits, &c. &c. all kinds cf v
vWlttßgs in tnc convcyancingllne, aone with neatnelsanrt
dispatch; accaunts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
most correct manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a (hare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED-
Philad. August 17, 1796. m&wtf
BRANDY, I
OF jft and 4th proof, and equal in quality to that import- ci
cd from France, may be had ot the fubferiber at his Diftil
2ery, No. 115, Story or New-street, between Third and d;
"Fourth-streets, where the public, upon application* may
, s"dge for themselves, and will find it art object well worth
their attention. aj
RUM and GIN in any quantity, for exportation or home
consumption, and of fuperioc. quality—by
Thomas Cave. w
P.S RYE, MALT, BARLEY, and MELASSES, will
he purchased, or taken in exchange for spirits, upon appli- tl
cation as above. Also any quantity of Claret or other wine a j
fit (or diflillation,
August 29 h, 1796, M4W p
No to Publi/birig by the Printer, a<
At No. 3, Laetitia Court, delivering to Subscribers, ' ll
and to be had at the different Book-Store's in this City,
Befriman & Co's
CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF tl
The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the Old and Naw ei
Testaments and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes and re- la
erences. An Index ; or aYi account of the most remarkable hi
padagesin the old and new Testament, pointing to the places fe
■wherein thoy happened, and to the places of fcriptuie where- ir
in they are recorded.—A Table of Time.—Tables of scrip
ture measures, weighuand coins : with an appendix,contain
ing the method oi calculating its measures of surfaces
hitherto wanting in Treat if adn this fubj{Q. A Table of Ofjius
and Conditions of men. 1
conditions J
1, "t he size of this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO, o.
printed on a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par- p,
ticularly for it, It will be published in Numbers, not to ex
ceed 30, one of which will be delivered weekly to fubfcrib-
ers, at a quarter of a dollar. Those fubferibers who prefer a ,
receiving the work will be attended to by fignifying
the fame on any of the fubfeription papers in rhe Bookftorfes
-in thiscity. *
2» There will be an advance in the price, on fubferibing J
after the firft of Augtift next. <t
3. In the course of the Work will be g?yea an elegant
Trontifpiece—From an Engraving of the celebrated artist,
Grignion.
Be rr i man & Co. gratefully acknowledge the very liberal "
encouragement they have met with; and havereafonto believe "
that the execution of their edition will aniwer every expec- "
v tat ion, and speak its own praxfe. ' "
May 26 3aweoM. 4<
i u
Philip Nicklin & Co. ;;
HAVE FOR SALE,
Souchong 1 -v
Hyson Skin )
Young Hyson S- FRESH TEAS {
Hyson and \
Imperial J
Yellow Nankeens-
China Ware, aflorled in Boxes and Chcfts
Qriickfilver
Bandar.no Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
ehefts 1 j
London Market MADEIRA WINE
Lorudon particular >in pipes, hogfteads, &
New-York Market ) quarter calks <
Teiwriffe Wine in pipes and hogftiead» »
Sugar Candy by the Box 1
Sail Canvas No. i a 8 !
L<-ad in (heets '
3 Calks of Cutlery assorted '
A few clieftsof Manchester Goods, assorted thick- 2
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c. *
3 Small packages of black fcwing-filks 1
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-root. '
assorted in caS.s -
July i 8 mw&f '
Mr. FR A NCIS, ~~
(Of the New Theatre)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
fr'nolars ami to tlie public. Mr. Francis intends, *
on hi? return from Maryland, to open a public aca- 1
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
«! erto renders any promifts of c onducing his Fusure
fchcmc; on the moll liberal ar.d IVritfictt terms, of pro
priety, totally unnecessary.
N. B. tci:ian as vfual.
June j law |
JOHN MILLER, Tun. & Co.
e, No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late vessels from Europe, &c.
AND HAVE bOR SALE,
A general assortment of CVOODS, fu,itable to the feafon —
Amongst which are,
IE TJROA'D and narrow CLOTHS,
-D Plain and twill'd COAXINGS,
Rose ftripcd and point BLANKETS,
FLANNELS and BAISES,
HATS aflortsd in cases,
- IRISH LINENS,
INDIA GOODS, generally,
A Consigned Invoice of IRONMONGERY,
Comprising a capital assortment to open a (lore—inclu
ding Thirty Calks of NAILS. This invoice will be fold
jg entire on very advantageous terms.
September 20. d
& Lottery
°' raising fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
A dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction df fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars jooo
1 TOOO 1000
I 500 560
y, 5 100 10 CO
20 103 4000
99 JO 495°
200 25 5000
2000 10 -20,000
J Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, jooo
233 a Prizes. <4,4J0
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45^
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftabl idl
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the l'uperintendants of the Pat
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Saheme to the public, and have dire&ed them
I - to refund the money to those persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
s > rhe lottery has a&ually commenced drawing, and will
"1 continue until finished. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
-> may be feefl at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will giveinformation where tick
—i— —- —
'' Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
,e < 7. N• CUMWINC, ")
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, >-Managers.
"■ "JONATHAN RHEA, )
' dtf eo
Samuel Rjchardet,
- ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
* Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS OOFFEE HOUSE in the '
city of Philadelj hiai
1- The Suhfcription Room Will be furniflied with all the
d daily papers publiffied in Philadelphia, New-York, Bof
y tan, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com-
mcrcial citiis of Europe—They will be regularly filed '
and none permitted to be faken away on any account.
e Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments, |
will at all times be procured at the bar.
II Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with i
i- the choiccft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
e approved Malt Liquors from London and'other breweries. !
The Larder will be supplied with the prime and earliest J
productions of the Season.
~ Large and finall Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be !
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
. hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is 1
r -tegwlarly k*ptf»e eomtniuntyi th« Forc latt had '
' at the bar. 1
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniftied, and
the utmost attention paid to deanlinefs, and every other
requisite.
Samuel Ricuardet will be happy to receive, and '
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at 1
large; and with gratitude fer their favours, he pledges
;e himfelf that nothing on his part Ihallbe wanting to pre
■l serve that patronage with whieh he ha» been so diftinguilh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
1- _
* Treasury of the United States.
NOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
), of the Funded Debt, or Stock, bearing a present intenjl of fix
per centum per annum.
<- rft, That pursuant to an AS of Congress passed on the
> 28th day of April, 1796, intitled an ait in addition to an
:r aft, intituled " An a (ft making further provision for the
'S support of public crsdit, and for the redemption of the
" public debt," the said debt or flock w.ill he reimbursed and
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
Ig " to be made on the last days of March, June and Septeni
nt " ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou
' " sand eight hundred & eighteen inclufive,at the rate #f
a] " one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
vc " Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of
c- " December lor the present year, and from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
" one thousand eight hundred and fewenteen inclusive, at
_ " the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma leo» the last
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of fucli sum, as will be then ade
" quate, according to the contrail, for the final redemp
-44 tion of the said itock."
2d. All diftinition between payments on account of
Interefl and Principal being thus aboliflied by the cftablifh
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abovs de
scribed, it has become necessary to vary accordingly the
_ powers of attorney for receiving dividends'; the public
creditors will therefore observe that the following firm
iseftablifhedfor aitpewers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promtjration 0,l this notice, viz.
in KNOW ALL MEN BY TITSSI PRESENTS, that
I of
do tnaie, constitute and appoint
& ■ 6 f my true tn ' At
torney, forme, andirt my mime, to receive the dividends 'Mich are,
or fball be payable according to law, on the (here defcribisv the
ftoch) fending in my name in the booh of (here defcribmg tile
books of the Treasury or the Commiilioncr of Loanss
where the stock is credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration-os t«ne for which the power of
attorney is to cofttintte) -with power also an attorney or.attor
nia under him, for that purpose io make andfiebjiit v tc,andti do all
lawful aSs requisite for effecting the pre wife, hereby ratifying and'
confirming all that my said Attorney or bitfubflitu'.e,fball lawful
ly do % by virtue hereof.
In IVitnefi hereof, I Lave hereunto set mi Hand and Seal the
day of in tie year >
" Sealed and Delivered
in prtfcnct^f,
BE I T KNOWN, that o« the day of
,j g cfbre me personally xanie
I within rusmed and actno-ailedged the above letter of attorney to he
his and died.
lc t'fiwny irfjcreof 1 bare hereunto set my Hand and affix
- ScnJ the day and year lafi rforefaid.
Given ur.der my ii'and ar Philadelphia, thistwen
tieth of July 1796, pursuant to dire&ions
from, the Secretary of the Treasury
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
I 1 reafurer ef the United States.
( J"'i a?. ** XTtt IJ.
» , / ' /
• A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa&ory, situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works aimoft new,
on an entirely original conftruftion, and buih of the belt
materials, and may be set tt> work immediately.
who with to purcha(e, are requested to apply at No. 273,
South Sccond Street.
September 13. - t
City' cf Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
federal city.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & 7 000
dwelling-Ktmfe, J caih are j
I ditto 15,000 & cash 25,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto ip,ooo & cash 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I dittp 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
2 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do, ijooo - - 10,000
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 16,000
200 do. 50 10,000
400 do. 25 » - 10,000
1,000 do.' 10 - 20,000
15,000 do. 10 - - 150,000
rfi,739 Prizes.
Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, a,t 400,000
N. B. To favour those who, may take A quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the i,ast but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be erected in the City of Washington—
Two beautiful designs are already feleited for the entire
fronts on two of the public fcjuares; fromthefe prawings
it isprofiofed to erect two centre!and four corner buildings,
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when comple*,. to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fchefnc for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dedudion of five per cent, will be made to defray:
the necerfary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part oT the fund intended for the National
University, to be erected within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The ivioney prizes will be payable in thirty day*
after it is finifhad ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the
drawing iaclcfed, are to be considered as given towards
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real fecuritres given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at snore than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiflioners aflifled in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous task
a second time on behalf ef the public ; a fufficient num
her of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
fri«tids to a National University and the other federal ob
je&smay contisueto favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public ace assured that the
drawing will speedily commenae, and that the care and
thetickets,''has'renderedthe fhorf
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; o
James Weft: &Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, 3ofton
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. eo
Watson's Answer tc Gibbon.
JUST RECEIVED,
-And for iale by J. OH.MROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
Apology for Christianity,
In a ferie< of Letters, addrejfed to
Edward Gisbqn, Esq.
Author of the History of the Decline and Fall of the
Roman E/npire:
Bv R. WATSON, u. d. f. k. s. Bishop of Landaff.
(Price 75 cents bound.)
Watson's Anfwcr to Paine,
To be had at the lame place.
The enemies of Religion are awake 1 Let not her
friends Jleep.
Sept. I. mw&ftf
RAYNE R~T AYLOR,
Music Professor,
Nq. 96, North-Sixth Street.
RESPECTFULLY informs his Scholars, that he has
re-commenced his attendance alter the fumrner va
cation ; and, as usual, teaches Ladies Singing and the
Piano Forte. Sept. 3. *38
NOTIC ET~
THE Subscriber, having been ieduced in bis circum
fiances, by sundry misfortunes, and being thereby
nuable to fatisfy his just debts, hereby gives notice to his
Creditors and to all persons concerned, that he intends to
apply to the General Assembly of Maryland at their next
fcflion to be held on the firft Monday of November next,
for the benefit of En a<st of insolvency.
WILLIAM EDMONDSON
Eafton, Ift of the 9th month, 1796. iawtiftMN
To be fold,
APLANTATfON, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty ef bloucefter, and slate of New-Jersey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres; a suitable propor
tion °f which is woodland and improved meadow. A
great part of the arable land is in a high slate of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover.
On Ctid plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and
hsufe. The garden is large, and contains a gAod collec
tion of the belt kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees ;
the orchard confifts.of about three hundred grafted apple- |
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premifee, may
be informed of the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER.
J"'y 2 9 &
To be Sold,
At No. 128, North Second-Street, and by federal q/
the Apothecaries ■_ in this City.
r T" , RANSFERS of the right to remove pains and infizmma
- 1 - tions from the human body, a> secured to Dr. ELfSHA
PERKINS, by patent, with intlruments and directions ne
ccliaiy for ibe praaice. This mode of treatment is particu
larly ufeful in relieving pains in the head, face, teeth, Lrcait,
i fide, ftonia-h, back, rheumatiftns, recent gouts, Sec. & c .
Notwithstanding the utility ot this practice, it is not pre
fumcd but there are cases in which this and every othei
remedy may fometime»feil.
J aae *i u v
Washington Canal Lottery,
Nf ° . I. 1
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
twohnndrpd, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Waihington, froxi th Po
tomac to the Eaftcrn Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -i Prize.of 30,000 dollars, 20,c00
I ditto 10,000 io.ooo
7 lall drawn 7
Tickets, each j <*'° 30 3J ' OOO
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
40 ditto roo a,OOO
55 ditto 50 5,750
J 750 ditto II 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,250
5850 Prises, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, atTenDollars, - 175,000
The Commissioners have taken the Securities re .
quired by the aforefaid ait for the punilual payment of
the prizes. 1
The drawing of tins Lottery will commence, without
delay, .vs soon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will.be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded ir fix months after th?
drawing is finilhed, ihall be cenfidercd as relin<juifhcd for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Waihington, Feb. 11. §
Mordecai Lewis
HAS FOR SALE, \
NANKEENS, long and ihort.
China, well affortcd.
Quickfitver.
Diapers __
Bafras.
Coffas.
Bandano Handfcgrghiefs.
Roll Brimstone.
Sept. 6. > tt&flm
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(The lateTefidence of General Walter Stewart)
A\7"llH a LOV »f GROUND thereunto belonging.
VV the weft fide of Thim-ftrect, near Union-ftrceC v
containing in front 32 feet, and in depth 100 feet, to art-,
alley leading into Uriian-ftrcet. The houf« fs 32 feet front
and 50 feet deep ; the fcfveral rooms contai'. d in it yt
large, commodious, and completely finilhed; the twodrft
stories are each 13 feet high; there are 20 ma'n<>gany
door. in the house ; a geometrical staircase, with <nahoga
ny rails and a g«od Iky-light. The kitchen iv<6 the cell
ar, which is spacious and convenient, and fviilhed with an
oven, flew-holca and pantries, a fervip<s' hall and large
wine-callar adjoining the kitchen, front of which is an
area in which there is a pump. The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said bitilding isa neat three-dory
brick house, on the north fide of Union-street, contain
ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; the lower part of which
is at present occupicd as a compting-hoofe, and the upper
part divided into w«ll-fmMhed large chambers. This house
luinii'ted into a-eoirvrnrent
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the frout
and back have Venetian window-lhutters. Adjoining the
lall house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, arc creelcd
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewifev«ry good coach"
howfe and stables finilhed equal (or nearly €o) with any in
the city, on a lot containing on Union ilreet 30 feet, and
in depth on the wall fide of said alley 52 feet. There arc
good cellars undei the whole of the buildings, and a wine
room over part of the liable, with a hay-loft over there/
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD BONS.hLL & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Dock-ilrect. between Walnut & Pear
t'*f ftrects.
6th month 24th, 1796.
FOR SALE. ]
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT 12 miles from thi« City, lituate in Abii.g
ton TownMjj, Montgomery County ; containing
70 a new stone hoofe, two stories high, a roomt on a
floor, lire placue in each, a (tune kitchen and Hone si ling
house, over 111 excellent spring of water, a barn, liable.',
iheds, barracks, &c. A large apple orchaid, and a variety of
othcrlruit, about la acres of good meadow well watered,
and wood fufficient for fire, and fencing the place. PolfclTi
on may be had the rft of April next. Property in this citv
will betaken in exchange or MORRISand NiCHOtSOK'i -
Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Aich-Strce:.
Philadelphia, September 13, 1790, ttTtF
WANTED,
For any term from one to four years,
A HOUSE, pleasantly situated In any of tbe principal
flreets within the pavement, and not very dillant from
the State-House, capable of accommodating a small fami
ly ; the house mull have stables and coach -houfr, and
would be required to be ready by the firft- week in No
vfmber next — of the printer.
Sept, 14. tt f
■ ; 1
FOR, SALE,
A very Valuable Eltate,
CALLED TJVITTENHAip, iituate in the
towinihip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 1-2 npiles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
new Western road: containing 230 acres of excellent land,
4.5 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reil arable of th« firft quality. There arc
on the premises a good two story brick house, \\ith 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, llaljks,
and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and Itone,
1 spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of pontil
es. Ihe fields are all in clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, v, hick renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing. ,
1 he situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very fuitablc for a gentleman's
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
, dcceafed, and offered for falc by
Mordecai Lewis,
Oil. 9. tt&l Surviving Executor.
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119 —
CHE SHUT-STREET.
_ [Price tight Dollars per Arm