■S-'A r •; V'.;'-' , y ' '. ; /~7' .%?. v . : ,;>}.-- . '$'■' 7; V •* ~ ■" V\ '¥££"** -•'.*
#a?ettt -ftb, ©nitct) g>tateo, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
THURSDAT EVENING, OCTOBER 27, 179 6 ' [Volume X.
Number 1290.1 ■ .'» ' ' " ■ ■' v 1,1 7 K
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiftine of different fires, from , l ineh cables down
to rope of a of different length.: Imported in
' the (hap Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. »7-
Tuft Arrived,
Br thf Fly, Certain Hubber,from Union,
Double racked, Brown Stout Porter,
PahrWCoburs, m i-» and «-4 ewr. kegs, packed in
hoglbesds.
Copperas in hoglheads.
Whiting! fcc. For Sale by
Peter Blight.
Ofiober » 5 - <hctts » w .
Landed this Day,
At Morton's Wharf, from the brig Fame, Captain -
Knox,
A quantity of Barbadoes Rum & Sugar.
For Sole by
Kearny Wharton.
Oaobert*.
For Sale, (
By Jehu Hollinfcjhvarth, & Co.
45 hhdt. Weft-India Rum, 3da*d 4th proof,
5 Barrels best Indigo, and,
A few thoafanci bufhcli of Turk s liland fait,
oa. 17- A
Tuft arrived, and will this day be lan
ded from ori lo«dthe brig FAVORITE at Chefhut (
street wharf. ,
25 Tons bejl Ruffta Clean HEMP,
c 6 Tons old Sable flat IRON,. ,
so© Ruffi® CORD AGE, aborted fi Res,
jpo Pieces brown Ruflta SHEETINGS, .
too Bolts Russia DUCK,
S4O Pieces Ravens do.
«o Half-down feather beds, and J
A few pieces assorted DIAPER. t I
FOR SALE BT 1
Joseph Anthony and Co. j
The above mentioned BRIG c
will fail in a few days, and tak- freight on J
moderate terras for Boston or Salem, for j
which or paflage, apply an board clt as above (
O&ober 24. totd 5
wjcSr For SALE, i
Tl.e Schooner INDUSTRY, |
JS&tr-f-glrZZm sixty-seven tons burthen, almost a new
vtiTel and well found. Eor tetjns apply to c
'Joseph Anthony If? Co.
If the Industry is not fold in a few days, she will take
freight very low for Boston.
Odober »4- • 47
y or Freight or Charter,
jfifci The ship COMMERCE, *
Om3L. NATHANIEL CURTIS, Mrfter.
/ffilZtfSFA Almost a new veflel, 94410018 bin theft, and wiSl
ready to, receive a cargo in a few days. For
terms apply on board at Bright* s wharf, or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
For Sale on board the above Vessel, j|
A quantity of excellent COAL. (
Persons htving goods on board, are camettly r<Mkcft- -
ed to fend their permits. - |
Ofloberjt. diot 2
FOR SALE, I
7 HE SHIP MARY, c
SAMUEL PARKER, Master, J
hundred tons burthen. Apply to t
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co. i
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take >
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above. !
Oflober it. diot t
For Norfolk,
( r > fail in three or four days) i
The brig Zephyr,
Captain Hinchman; lying at Landenberger's wharf— *
She has excellent accommodations for passengers—For \
•fc'hich or freight, apply to the captain on board, or to j
Samuel Breck, jun. ,
No. 89, South I'hird-ftreet: t
linker* may be had ,
A quantity of N. E. Rum, Sherry Wine t
in quarter-ea/ks, 1
S*il Cloth, Nr ?. i and t, and a few hundred piece* 1
of Bandanna Handkerchiefs. '
Oiflober ao. 6 '
The Brig MARY, |
. Lying at M;(Trs. Willings ani Francis's t
wharf/burthen tooo barrels, built in Philadelphia in 1793 }
ef live oak and red cedar.—She is well found, and may (
b« sent to sea at a (mall expenee. For terms apply to
Guniey C£J° Smith. }
oa. 6. dtf.- j
• t FOR LONDON, ■'
ea P l,a ' CERTiS,
foen:—For freight or passage i
to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or 1
John Ydugban, J
September 10. Front-street. ,
for Charter, 1
B art i uc Binhventvra
Kyityl' Samuel Stub, master,
good vessel, of about two hundred
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WALM.
Sopt. 17. dtf
f or Charter,
Dominick Terry,
I a r>c Hart, master : an excellent
vessel, of about 3000 barrels burtken.
JeJfe & Robert Wain.
September si. d
Just Imported,
Tin Plates in boxes
* Sheet and bar Lead
Shet—all sizes, paten* and oomm«»
„ Copper bottoms and iheets
„ Englilh shoes and boots in cases
Tauuton Ale incafks of 10 d«a. eaok
Baiket Salt
Wool Ca,d»
Gold Watches.
For Sale by
Simon Walker,
, oa. 7. mwfrm ' Pock-street 1
For Sale,
This day Landing from on board the Jhib Concord,
Captain Thompfoo, from Amjierdam,
Gin, in pipes
Empty Gin Cases
Hock in cafo» of 4 do*.
Glass Tumblers in chuftg
Sweet Oil in cases
Patte Graffe Clieefe in boxes, Wc.
j Also Landing by the Louisa, Capt. Belt, from L\/bon t
60 Quarter-calks Lifeon Wine.] v
On Hand,
' A quantity Of Brandy, Hafcle-Nuts In sacks, &c.
Peter Blight. "
Oflober iy. daw eaiw
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant And Lil
bon, landing at the fubfcribters wharf—
a 8 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanilh wooll
3 do. of Annifeed
7000 Bulhels Of best I.ilbon S*lt
80 Boxes of Letnoii6
For file-by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy Hogfheadsof" prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the ship Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart,
from Kinjffton. *
Sept. Ij. d
LANDING,
Out of different i<ejf?ls from England, and for sale
by the fubjeribers on reasonable terms,
Superfine and common cloth*, and caffimers
Ribbed and striped do. do.
Blankets , mottled green and silk rugs.
Superfine blae, Claret, and coating*,
Rerfeys, Bear-lkins, plains and Hatfthicks,
SwanJkins, Serges and Flannels,
a Britilh Ingrain Carpeting,
' Hats assorted in cases of 1 % Adz. each.
r Chocolate chintzes, printed Callicoes and Handkerchiefs. ,
Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail, ,
Yarn, Worftcd, and CoMon hosiery,
Beavers, Thickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &c, fee.
Buff and drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality.
6d. Bd. lod l»d. lOd. nails, and frying pans,
' AnafTortment oflronmongerry, Cutlery and a variety
of India cotton, and silk goods.
Thomas Ess Joshua Fijher. \
* No. s, Dock-fttrcct. ,
Alfe by the Glafgovr from Cablin,
1-8 end 4-4 Irish Linens assorted in boxes of 30 pieces,
OA. 17. dtf. 1
' FOR SALE,
; An elegant HOUSE, No. 78, Walnut
flreet;
WHICH is 25 feet front, by 171 feet deep, with a
lot adjoining, io i-» feet wide, by 72 feet 8 inches 1
deep. (This let is back of the house occupied by
George Willing, Esq.) The house is completely finilh- 1
- ed in every refpetf. it is 50 feet cleep, Las two
large p rlours, the front one 24 feet, the back one is
12 feet, by 18 l-i feet, a handsome "drawing-room, 1
24 1-2 feet by 24 feet. The rooms below, the drqw
ing-room and the chaiabeVt adjoining, have onlbogany
doors, and these as well as the room* above them have
a communication with each ofiier. The height in the
firft and fecoud story is la feet, and have ftoco cor
-0 nices, aod nine rooms up stairs, besides the garrets,
which are divided into three rooms, a good kitchen,
e wafb-houfe, milk and bathing-houses, a Urge ice
house, a pump in the yard, ar.d a 3 feet 3 inch alley,
that leads into Fonrth-'ftreet, The cellars are laid with
lime, and floored with two inch plank, and piaftered.
The yard is well paved, and the house is clear of
ground-rent. All the rooms have beJls in there, and
the chamber bells ring in the garret, as welt as io the
entry down stairs. All the chambers have white tiles,
~ except the one next to the room, which has
as well as the draivirig-room and rtie two parlours be
low, marble chimney pieces. The drawing-room, the
two parlours below, and the entry, are papered up to
the third story: In the room over the kitchen is an
open stove. In the wash room tbtre is an oven, and
5 the back buildings, from the cellar, all the way up,
havelsrgeclofets, and in the cellar is a large bottle
8 rack, a wine store is taken off of the Cellar, and three
bins to hold bottled liquor are made in said room
with padlocks to them ; ihe whole cellar and the cock
- loft are as well ptaftertd as any rooßi in the house.
Ir. short, the house if in every refpecfl completely fmifh
ed. Poflelfion (hall be given in ten days after the house
is fold. Two brisk stables in Walnut-Areet, with
5 two coach houses. one of them will hold two carri
-1 ages, the other one. The fraalleft :l*ble has room for
f three, and the largefl for four horses. It is is 11 feet
front on Walnut-street by 50 feet, 3 inches deep. They
have excellent lofts over lliera. The bnilding is arched
and laid with lime and two-inch plank, and the cellars
will hold about 100 pipes of wine: Is clear of ground
rent, and has the privilege of an 11 1-2 feet alley, that
leads into Fifth-ftreet. Also a brick, store, 33 feet front
on l ourth-ftrett, by 50 feet deep, which might at a
e tm all expence be turned into a handsome dwelling Uocfc
r having been so contrived inthe building. It has a yard
48 feet 6 inches wide, by 24 feet deep, has a rain wa
ter pump, and stlier conveniences, and the tellar is laid
with two inch plank, and is now rentefat 40 dollars
per month. I his building is £übje<a to a ground rent of
11 oohars 3-4 per annum. Th*tore and flables I would
• t g'Ve immediate poflelfion of.
George Meade,
d « . No. 78, Walnut Street.
OSi - '*• dx.
LOST YESTERDAY,
\ A Note of Hand,
sor G '7,l n flVol '. r ° f f illiam by John Curtis,
.■a °. r thcreal,out3 ' Al! persons are warned
11 r payment - Is so ""d, it i. '
No lot North tS llVCri ' J to tile fubferiber at
ir r'Jl f Mth J h ' rd : paymest bei 11(? ft opps d
n j "° U to an 7 • r,a l "t >ie owner.
5 JOHN CURTIS.
For Sale,
Carolina Rice in whole and half tiercel,
Cotton of Cayenne and Trinidad,
$oal Leather, entitlsd to drawback,
Boston Beef, and
Mould aad dipt candles.—Apply to _ S
lfaac Harvey, jun.
No. 5, South Wzter-ftreet. „
toth mo. 17. d 3'« r '
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of the&ip Ganges, capt. Tingsy, from Cal- P
cutta and Bengal,
consisting or
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARS
A variety jine worked and plain Mttjlitts,
Doreas, Wr. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and Taags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
- Willings Francis,
No. 21 Penn Street. f
Time 8 f
Irish Linens, &c,
1 Imported per the ships Glafgmu, from Dublin, Libit' ft
ty, from Cork, nnd brig Mentor, from Betfafl, C
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS, l
In whole and half boxes,
Aflfcrted from lid. to 4s. sterling—Also 5-4 wide jZ
Sheetings, and low priced yarn and Worftcd Hofc.
* On Hand,
7-g Wide Lawns.
Diapers and Table-Cloths _
A few boxes Tickens and Checks
' A few bales Flannels
> Cork and Belfall Sail Cloth, Noe. T and 6 A
45 Boxes } f 6 by 'S,
IP Ditto > Window Glass, 1 7 by 9,
5 Ditto ) C. 8 by io.
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
t drawback, aid will be disposed of by the package on
reasonable terms.
James, Clibborn & Englilh,
No. 6, N. Front-ftretft. _
joth mo. 19th. dtf
To be Let,
Two Rooms, furnifhed or unfurnijhed.
In a three-story Brick House, at a very small dif
tsnte from the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe. The use of
the Kitchen may be had, and that of a Cellar.
Apply at this Office. "
Odlober 24. 4
STOP THE THIEVES !L!
LAST Wcdnefiday Evening, o£iobcr 19, tetween tbc
ioo'clock> the bed 100 m of Mr Ricketts ic
O'Elltr's hotel was ctiterfcd, either bv means of falFfe
, or at the window, by fotte villain or villains, must have h
been acquainted wj h the fiiuaiion of the house the door
? waa found locked after th< y had committed ihe theft) who
took a\vay from ajncngft fevera! trunks, ONE wkich Con
tained a valo>t)le part df Mr. Ricken's property, but of which
- he is notyet able to ascertain the con ten is As- q
ter bringing the said trunk away, and emptying it of up- p
wards Of a thousand dollars in cash add bank notes, the vii- g
• lains left it Tsreliind the cirens, during the time that the per- p
formances of the evening were gping f©Tward- p
It is earnestly that all tavern-keeper* on the stage
1 roads, and the ferry houses, as well as all civil officers, may
> be watchful in fecuang lufpicious persons, who rmy have a
r rrdundaneeof cafr\, which their appearance would by no
meant bespeak them ta he poflefled of. * '
1 One Hundred Dollars Reward
» Will be given for securing the thief orrtlicves, and afut-
1 ther rewaVd for fecurinr them with the property.
■ Gtt 21 ' d - J
This Day is Published,
• By William C-obbett, oppoTite Cbrift-Churih,
- An Answer to Paine's Rights of Mali,
• By R Mafcenzie, Esq. of Edinburgh.
' Yo iv hieh is added,
\ " A Letter to Citizen Swanwick,
By Peter Porcupine.
The whole is dedicated to Boil or Joseph Priestley,
f Fellow of the Royal Society of London, Citizen of _
I America, and Deputy Elect to the National Conven
c tion of France.
, Oa.lß.
! Washington Lottery.
j The 30th and 31ft days' drawing; of the Washington
i Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office No. 134, Mar
l ket-ftrect, where tickets may be examined.
(> N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other -
c ' lotteries may be procured.
g Oflober io, 1796. d
Mr. RICKETTS
MGS leave to inform the Ladies and Gentlemen, that
- he will open his RIDING SCHOOL on the Ift of Nor.
e for the inftruftion of Ladies and Gentlemen in the ele
b gant accomplilhmcnt of riding and managing their horses
- witii ease to themselves.
r Mr. Ricketts has well trained Horses for the accom- "
t modation of Ladies and Gentlemen for exercise, to pay
y monthly. Pupils to pay by tb« Jeafon, or by the Icflon.
i Horses trained to the road or field.
s Qfleber 14. d
t To be Sold, r
t •
a The Time of a smart, a&ive Negro Lad, I
f Who lias Eleven years to serve. e
d Enquire at No. 58, South Front-street.
Oi51ol)er 18. §
j ' 11 -li - - isitil • — •
s Wants a Place,
f Either as Clerk or Book- Keeper in a Store, a Person l
d 'who can produce good references as to charafler, &c.
at th Office of this Gazette. *
: 24. 2 *
FOR SALE. |
PORT. WINE, and ,
HOLLAND GIN, of the firft qualities in Pipes. c
VAN REED, (
Brokers and Commiflion Merchants, No. 63,50. 3d St. 1
i, Who discount approved NOTES of hand. 1
d *L B. An APPRENTICE Wanted. I
is Scyten>bcr 14. mwf 1
l' WANTED,
■d" SIPPRhN'TICE to the finning Bvfinef:. 1
Enquire at this Qflite.
" ' ' ■!■■■■ ■ -!
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STKE£r,
Has received by the latfc arrivals,
A Well Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdafliery Goods,
Which be will fell, wholefile and rttail, *n the very
terms ;
Amapgfi luh'ub are
Some tlegint 4-4 ind 7-# CMnties and Cottons, new
patterns - " •
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Enmity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet MuCifii
Ditto in Cold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umkrellas of the firft quality, aflorted
lrifh Linen*, very fine, and Tabic Licea*
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpane*
Rose Blankets afforted—&c. See.
Ofiobsr 26. 4
" -
Imported in the late arrivals from Eufife and tie
IVeJI-Indiei,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique Molaflis, in hojjfhead*
Choice old Lisbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-cask*
London Particular Sc London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipe* and qoarter-cafks
Malmsey Madeira Win*, in pipes and quarter-calk*
TenerifTe Wine, in pipes
Ruilia &.Flemiih Sheeting and Raven* Duek, in Cafo*
Window Olafs, 8 by 10, in boxes
Coffee Mill* and Straw Knives, in calks
Mill Saws and Croft-cut Saws, in boxe*
Also, on hand,
A few clre-fts of Bohea Tea j Jifuhi Birk ; Aflafos
tida arid Tapioca ; and a few ba!e6 of Cofiaet,
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete alTortment of 5-4 aad 6-4.
Boulting Cloths.
1 f For Sale by
Pragers fe? Co.
O&ober ao diwm&thim^
Country Rum,
And a few pipes of Vinegar,
For Sale by
Ezekiel Half,
p At the ftwe* of M'r. Eiward StoW, juh. No. 4, Sowh
Water-ftreat. G<Sober 10. d
1 .*iif<llll. HUM...
A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS,
; John Miller, juti. & Co.
, Exclusive of tbefr bWn Importation now opening',
Have received b/the William Petal, Caroline and lJia»»
CONSIGNMENTS,
> Which comprise a capital affortrttnt to opea »
Dry Good* Store.
1 —AmOngfl them ar«—■
Common, super ani luperfine Cloth*,
Plain, twill'd and ftrip'd Coatmgi,
Baizes and Flannels,
Point, rose and daffil Blankets,
, Plain and puntea Caffimerei,
~ t Swahfdowni,
, Printed Calicoes,
, Scotch Threads,
Hosiery.
They will be fold either ift whole, «r fti part, by the
package, on terms which render them an object worthy e{
attention to purchasers. » dtf OA. at.
... . 1
- Bell Bditon & Nova-Scotia JVtackarcl,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbb.
47 bbla. prime Coffee,
, left Boston Beef,
Codfifh in hd*»
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 „. r
Northern J
» Mould and dipt, tallow candles* of a fuper!or
* quality.
A few boxes excellent brown faap,
6 Bales of Cork*.
40 Pipes excellent Lilbon Wine.
A few licks of Feathers.
A few bates India Muslins.
n FOR SALE nr
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
31, \ dl
r 1 fti[i 1 ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ — ■ ...I.
Landing this day,
From on board the Brig Caroline, at CbeJ,"nut-Jlreet
ivharff
FORTT PIPES
x London proof Holland Gin.
For Sale by
•* Joftph Anthony 8c Co.
Qflober al. 6
y To be Rented,
A Small and Convenient BREWERYat
Morris Vitle, oppnfite Trenton.
ALL the Apparatus for Brewing new and in good
repair : A number of Barrels and Half Barrels will
t alio be rented. PofTeffion may be had at any time.
, Enquire of Mr. Garrett Cottringer in Philadelphia,
or Mr. Robert Morris, jun. or Daniel Mun at Morris-
Ville.
October ao, 1796. mth&saw
Loft Last Evening,
n At Ricketts's Amphitbeatr', (supposed to be taken by
, forte villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about 185 dollars in bank notes; three «ote»
of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and ,to 6, da
ted iath last August, payable 60 days after dat'c, to the
•rder of Paul Siemen, together for 5150 dollars ;»n ordar
of Mrsi Ann A acphcrfon, from Paul Siemen, on Lach
t. tin Mac Neal, Efq.at Port-au-Prince,.f.>r lOCdoUars ; bc
fidtsfeveral letters and papers of no use but to*he proprie
tor. The notes of hand and order are without endorfg
„ ment. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to
any person who will discover and secure the thief, and
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the abqvf menti
oned notes and papers at No. lay. corner of Front and
IVTiilUerry streets. d qq ii#THE PANTHEON,
Jvd Ricketts's Amphitheatre,
4 For Equestrian and Stage performances.. Corner of
Chefnut and Sixth-streets.
■
THIS EVENING, THURSDAY, o<Sober n,
Will be presented,
A variety ofpleafingEntertainments.
HORSEMANSHIP.
Mr. F. Ricketts will pick up a pin from the grdurid,
the horse in full speed.
» And in particular for this night, Mr. Ricketts will leap
oVer a pbltten feet high, the horses in fullfpced.
After which will be presented,
A COMIC DANCE,
By Mr. Durang, who will c! »r.ge from a dwarf three
/eethigh, to a woman Gx fee' high.
EQUESTRIAN exercises.
By Mr. Ricketts and Co.
And (for this night only) the whole to conclude wrfh
a Pantomime, called.
The TRIUMPH of VIRTUE,
Or, Harlequin everywhere,
Among other scenery will be represented,
, An elegant view of
Broadway and the Government-Haufe in New-'Torh.
Also,
A grand view ef the Delaware and Jeifey Shore.
To commence with the origins! Overture of
OSCAR and MALVINA.
Harlequin, Mr, Sully.
Lover Mr. Tompkins.
Pantaloon, Mr. During.
Punch, Mr. CofSe.
Palliafo, Mr. F. Ricketts.
Piero, Mr. Spinacuta.
Ariel, Mrs. Tompkins.
. And Colnmbine, Mrs. Spinacuta.
MANDARINS,
MeflVs. Griffin, M'llroy, Grant, Snider, Mills,
Frost, &c»
Sailors, Watchmen, Sc.c. by the test of the
Company.
In the ccurfe of the Pantomine, the favorite
song of
ICH BIN LIEDERLIG.
By Mr. SULLY.
The whole to conclude with the view of a
Superb Temple-,
AND A
DANCE by the Characters.
£5" Box, 7s. 6d.—Pit, 3s. 9d.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Ford, at the ticket office m
Chefnut-flreet, from ten to three o'clock each day.
~ FOUND,
• • A small Bar of Iron.
Supposed to have been dropped from a drxy. The
owner may receive It by applying to the Publisher of
this Gazette.
Ocflobtr *7.
iTbe, Subfcrtbers have for sale •
The Following GOODS:
Claret in hogfliea'ds
Do. of the firft quality, in bottles
Malaga wine
Old red Port do.
Madeira (London particular) fit for immedi
ate use.
Philips, Cramond & Co.
Oflober ty. ■ 3
Just Landing,
At Southjlreet-wharf, from oh board the /bip Sedg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peter/lurg,
The following Goods:
• 1 Rsflia Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
l}o. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Crash.
Do. Wou'd Candles, 4, j and 6, to the lb. of the
Enghfti Ijzc.
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do* White Soap in small bores.
80. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
Isinglass, ill and and fort.
Horse Hair uncurlcd.
Ruflia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron. <
Do. Nail Rods.
jo Tons Oahum and Junfc.
St. Petersburg Clean Hemp.
For Sale By 1
Philips, Cranvond, & Co. '
Q&obcr is.
SAIL CLOTH. :
On Monday, the 3 17? infi. will be Sold 1
at Public Sale, at the Store of Messrs. '
George Hunter & Co. No. 153, Pearl \
1 Jireet, Neiv-York, ,
275 Pieces of the Befl I
Engiifli Weft Country Sail Cloth, j
By some perfqns called Eafl. Coken, and by others J
Weft Coken.^—lt is of known excellency; wears ,
white, and does not mildew.
Oflober iS dtigth
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, jnn. & CO.
Illve received per the William Pcnn, in addition to
rheirown afiurtnefU, (
A consignment of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele- ,
" £ P™' I.ftodon patterns; »Koa few cases of handsome ,
Buttons—Which will be fold at a (hort credit, on very
rrafonable' terms, by the package only. :
OA- 14. ' dtf «
A CI OSE COACH, which has ran about 7 months, '
aruUpair of hrown, able-bodied hctr«is, for sale
on rtafocable utms. Apply at No. 63, fcuth Third- 1
flreet. j
P- S. Tile coach is more particularly calculated for the
winter feifon, having large glals lights Venetian blinds. 1
Qflobei 14 j
WAN IS a ntuation is CLERK,in a mercantile house c
m this city, a yor.ng man who can be well recom
mended : he is well acquainted with book-keeping, and
writes a rood haftd. Enquire of the editor of the Ga
zette of the United States.
Qflober 13. «Sd '
University of Pennsylvania,
OSo'oer 5, 1796. r
The MedicalLednres will coimncncc the firft Mondav '
m ij'svcinkerr >
For the Gazette of the Unitid States.
of 1
PHOCION—No. X.
"* WE afe next informed of Mr. Jefferfon's " at
tachment to the RELiSious rights of mankind,*'
and are referred for his sentiments refpefting religi
• ous liberty to his writings, bis conduct, and partieu
j larly to the "aS ejlabli/hing religious freedom," drawn
up by him.
'P Hampden would have aftcd more wifely, and j
more conformably, I am persuaded, to the wilhes of
his patron, had he pasTed over this tender fubjeft in '
ftlence. It wa» certainly indifcrect to mention The
ee mas Jtfferfon and religion in the fame parat;»a{ih,pf 1
an eulogy.—Rtligibus freedom and (freedom from re
ligicrt are now becoxne convertible tcrm« with most
$ modern philqfophrrs, particularly tliofs who h3ve
been educated in the philofuphical schools ot France.
MY.'Jefferion has been heard to fay, fine* his return '
from France, that the men ot letters and philoio- '
phen he had met witb in that country, were gene- '
rally Atheifis. The late impious and blafphemeus
( works »f Thomas Paine, reviling the chrijtiaa reli- '
gion, hav« been much applauded in France, and '
have been very indultriouljy circulated in the Uni
ted States, by all that class «f people, who are c
friendly to Mr. Jefferfon's politics, and anxiously £
desirous of his els&ion to the Prefidencyi Mr. Jef- c _
ferfon'»~friendlhip for Peine has bfenalready men
tioned ; that anti-ibrijian writer barf apartments at £
Citizen Monroe's at Paris, and (hould Mr. JeSerfon r
be President, there is no doubt he would return to r
this country and be a conspicuous figure at the v
President's table at Philadelphia, where'this cn- .
lightened pair of phiiefophers wotild fraternize, aad 11
1, philosophize against the chrijiian religion,and theaa- e
furdity of religious worfiip.—Whatever new lights "
e they may have acquited in France, it i» certain that a
Jefferfon had nal nrally very good prc-Uifpoptions
on the fubjedl of religion. In his notet op Virgt- r;
nia, page 169, in discussing the fubjeft o{ a
freedom, he makes this witty observation—'" It n
" does me no injury for my neighbour ts {ay there '
" are twenty gods, or n» god ;it neither picks my 11
" pocket nor breaks wy leg ; if it be said", his tef- h
rt timony in a court of jultice cannot be relied on, n
" reject it then, and be tb« liigma on him In
" page 170, he fays, " millions of innoccnt men, v
n " women and the introdvSion oftbrif. v
" tianity, have been burnt, tortured, fined and im- 1
" prisoned." In page 171, speaking of the state h
o( religion in Psnnfylvania and New-York, he fays, 0
" religion there is well supported, of various kinds
e "" indeed, but all good enough ; all fufficient to pre- F
r " fetve peace and order.'' •
Which ought we to be most Ihocked at, the leoi' n
ty or the impiety of these remarks ? "it docs me no
injury, if my neighbour is an atheist, because it
does «. »t break my leg !"• What ? do I receive no
injury, as a member of society, if lam surrounded j
with atheists, with whom I can have no social in- 1
tercoutfe, on whom there are none of those fslipi
ous and sacred ties, which retrain mankind from the C
perpetratian of crimes, and without which tics ci- V
vil society w&tild soon degenerate into a wretched *
state of barbarism, and be stained witb scenes of
- turpitude, and with every kind of atrocity ? Good r
God f is this the man the patriots have cad their
_ eyes on as fucccfTor to the virtuous Wajhington, who, '
in his farewell address, so warmly and afFectionate-
ly recommends to his fdlow-citizens, the cullivati
on if religion. Contrail with the above frivoh.ue t
and impious quotatrons* the following dignified ad- a
vice from that true patriot t "of all the difpuGti- B
" ons ard habits, which lead to political profperi- »
" ty, religion and morality are indispensable sup- Cl
= " ports. In vain would that man (he seems to f
«« point at J-tfcrfon !) claim the tribute of patrio
tism, who Ihould labor to subvert these great pillars t
of human happiness, theftfrmeftprops of the duties
of men and citizens. The mere politician, equally
with the pious man, ought to K*fpcft and to cherish
them. A volume could not trace all thcif eonn/xi
ons with-private and public felicity. p
Let it /imply be afited Where is the fcenrity for
property, for reputation, for life, if the sense of *
rettgnus obhgation dejert tic oaths, which are the
tnftrnments of inveft.gation in ccur t« of j u fti c . e j »
And let us, with caution, indulge the supposition
that morality can be maintained, without re/igwn. ?'
Whatever may be consedcd to the influence of
fined education on minds of peculiar flruflure tea so
I (on and experience both forbid ns to expeft'tha' f °
national morality can pvevail in exclusion of relin- P"
(SS ous P'inciple. Tia fubftantiaUv trL-,, that Virtue *
or morality ,s a necessary fpr.ng of popular govern- ta
ment. Ihe rule indeed extends with more or lefa ac
force to every species of free government. Who N
that is a Jincere friend to ii can look with indfffer- Cl
ence npor> attempts to jbake the foußdation of tlw be
; o'' T5 a " 11 be ' that Prov has not con
nected the permanent felicity of , nation with it's th
virtue? The experiment, at least, i»recommended
by every fen;,men, which ennobles human nature; F
alas . is it tendered impofiible by its vices >"
What fublirae sentiments, what admirable ad
vice ? How must ,t fink in our eyes the pretended
, phiiofopher, who could attempt to degrade the
- m il; re hg lo n by charging to it the murdcr of in
ml lions, who ceuld view with such the 1,1
; m ® n y alarming mnovations on the mild and ftmple **
religion of our forefathers I « There are religions
of wtms, kind, indeed, fcys-our phijofop'herf W ,' &
ALL GOOD ENOUGH.'* or
I Good enough indeed for one who effablift.d and A
• patronized a newfpnper, one ohjeft of which w as ?
■ v-'l V , C il r anity !,h ,s not 'orgotten that the
National Gazette, publiflied by a clerk in (b A re
. cretary, loft no convenient opportuurty of makieg " Q
■ * Contrast even an observation of bis own in nn.
bis letters, already referred to, where he fays, « the
cUrat '°n. religious faith (hall be unpunilhed
does not give impunity to criminal aflj Jiff , , , aD
« religious error." He then b f l,7"d thal W 'h°
ror would produce criminal atfs - In d vet „£ "*
r 1 z
I eh
"• it mockery cf religion i-, ~nd viHtying cv
of the Country.
It is will observed by a modern writer, "that
patriolifm, as a moral principle attaching itfelf to
political society, depends, like every other moral
principle, on it» relation tc religion. Ihe creator
it- of man.has bound the social to the divine virtues, ;
and made cur devotion and »ur reverence ro hi.a
ji- felf, the ground work of our duties to our brethren
u- and to our country."
rn The ltd for tflab/i/bing religious freedom, in Vlr-
ginia, (the nrcefflty for which is not veiy obvious,)
. has been.much extolled by Mr. JeffVrfon's panegy
-1 f rills. l aik them what good effitfts has » pro
duced ? Does religion flourilh in Virginia more
r than it did ar more than in the eadern dates? Is
public worftiip better attcaded ? Are the ministers
of the gofp«l setter supported, than in the ealteru
jj. (lates ? jj
, e That aft, which is nearly all preamble, setting o
e Forth a fctifs of principles, some of which are j
n proved by late experience in France to be very qn f
tiotmble, has, in nty- Opinion, an immediate ten- o
dency to produce a total disregard to public wor- (
jj ship, an ahlalute indifference to all religion whate- £ '
!i. ver. It dates, among other things, " that wc f(
J ought not to be obliged to support even the mini*
j. I fters of our own religious persuasion, aiad that our
- e civil rights hav« no more dependance on our reli
gious opinions than oil «ur opinions in physic or gc
ometry theaft then declares, " that no man
(hall be compelled to frequent or support any reli
lt gious wotfhip or minister whatever, and that all
n men (hall be tree to profefs, and by argument to
0 inaintain, their opinions, in matters of religion,
e without diminishing their civil capacities."
I will not accuse Mr. Jefferfon of having been
j influenced by f'ljijh jyitws, in getting this aft pasT
ed ; but th»fc acquainted with h:s conduct and opi
s nions will agree with me, that he has fully taken
, advantage of every little of the preamble and enac
s sing-ciaufe : he has proved his leligious freedom, or,
rather, hi? freedom from religion, by his condu£l ;
s and by his opinions, his rjgbt to maintain by argu
t ment any opinion whatcrer, in matters of religion. C 1
e Who ever few him in a place of warfliip ? The
r IBan who can fay he has seen such a phenomenon, is
[•_ himfelf a much greater curiosity than the elephant
! now travelling through the southern dates.
n But how inconfident, not only with truth, bat
, with'themfelves, are these vifienary philofop her*,
who are thus always Unking out some new doc- j t
u trine ? The states, that our c'rtiil rights p k
e have no dependence whatever on our religions opini- a
. ons J and yet it immediately after admits, thatr<r/r- p r
l s gious opinions may break out into overt eids against
peace and good order, and yet the Uttei jufl qaot- Z(
ed speaks of criminal *3s diHated ly religious error ! V(
What a conformity do we find between the fenti- f,,
1 men is of Mr, Jefferfon, in matters of religion, and V 1
0 thofeof Tom Paine ? Where, is the wonder, then,
11 if the woiks of the latter are circulated with so tc
" much zeal by the frier.ds of the former ? Tom C(
Paine has ridiculed the Holy Scriptuies, and repro
bated public wotfhip. Tom Jefferfon has attempt
| ed to disprove the deluge—h»» made tt • qucflion
! whether the Almighty ever had a chosen people,J
■" and has, by example and precept, /fiftouHrena/ieccf
pub/it tvorjbip. Such is the Chief Magiilrate wb e! n
the patriots of citizen Fauchet have fele&ed for the
United States! ! Such the kindred philosophers (
r ti-hofe new lightt ate to be disseminated thioughout
'» America, under the atfpkes of the 'Chief Magif.
irate of the Union ! !
f See. among various instances, tftejSth nnwherof
e the National Gazette, where the belief of a Pravi
dir.ee is treated as an impitus tenet. In the time of .
. Rcbefpierrc, a number of the convention who had
introduced into his speech the word Providcnce, was *1'
called to erder, by the cry «f Point de Providence, no p<
Prov^ence.
% Notes on Virginia, p.i 75 . « Those who labour
in the earth, are the ckofen people of God, if ever be „
' bfcd a cbcferi peoplf."
f, From the Providence Gazette. e '
J Mt'flrs. Pnnters, cc
You Will oblige a number of. your cuffomers, by ar
pubhfliing the following advertifemcnt iu the acxt dc
r Gazette. th
f FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS REWARD.
, Was millaid, or taken away by mistake (soon ar
1 X I Abolition Society) from „
. lhe G,r!s ot th " fwn, all inclination to So C
. f n y kind of work and! left, ia lieu thereof, an
- ' mp . u . c "* a a strong and continued tltirft bl
- ? Wa ? ts ' 3 goflipiag iifpofition for every 2 f
t iorl ot an>t|fe--ut, a leering and hankering after F e
petfonsof the other fex.adefire of finery and faßiion,
. a neve, ceasing irot after new places more advan on
. tageous for tieaimg—with a number of contingent P c
, 'ccompltihnieiMs that do not suit the ffl
, Now ,f any pernor persons will restore to the own
■ u'T r CrU < U "" e fiy a "d Indufiry which has m '
; ST.,, hc or thc Y receive
' F ' ve Hu "dred Dollars, beside
, the warmed Lkffings of many abused and insulted v
I p ~ . HOUSEHOLDERS.
, Providence, C 3. 1756.
MOT.
1 A gentlematyvho poffefied a much larger qua\ _
' " Ju'T' n r ' atUre »fu*Hy bedows upon A i n
F contrived ,0 make it more enormous b'
! ar^aCh ,? n, '° thc boUk ' wh,Vh co
. Wet t wuh emeralds and rubies. To add to 1.; r
J, ui.1,1, a»a the other of 2V CC W ft, k.ipl .■
: reason. " 1 , . dcn,amJe<J Cc
' sis your eyes had been i J ° C " lar « enins 'i of
■ certainly Le f ft th ™ ' "° fe f bu
conflagration might have Been £
, B[
From a London Pacer rml
• E»ano, L C C ° fk ' G,,., in
hcafe, on the fame day • were tfcS 't'
• they were born in ; where fcn Ph ° , hCilfe coi
and died on the lame rkv un iamc \
.k.r »^Z£«S6tJ3, ta »» ! V" >' ,h!
Philadelphia.
at »
THURSDAY EVENING, OCTOBER j 7>
Died, yesterday, Mrs. Sarah Emlen, w if. „*
J Mr* Samuel Emlen, fen. now in England.
. n . *)•'* mormiig, Mr. Joseph Sharpless, mer
chant, formerly a reputable Schaolmafter in thiscitv.
r * AT a meeting of a refpeftable number of the ci
'> tizens of Philadelphia, held at Dunwoody's ta.
, « tn - for ,he purpose of fele&ing suitable pcrfor,,
. c as ele<ftofs of a President and Vice Prefidenr „f
( the United States—the following proceeding
were reported, to wit.
* At a meeting of a confided number of the
members of the legislature and other citizen, oftii«
different counties of Pennfyltania, held in the city '
£ of Philadelphia, on the evening on which tl.eleeif-
r e lature adjourned, i-f
Cumberland, ii the Chair, and Robert Frazer
of Che'ler, Secretary ; it was uiianimcufly agreed
tii recommend the following named peTfons for el?c«
tors of President and Vice Prefide.r, at the efcflioo
t» be holden on Friday the fourth day of Novce.
ber next.
ELECTOR S.
Ifrae! Wlielen, Philadelphia,
* Samuel Miles, Montgomery,
Henry Wynkoop, Bucks,
j John Arndt, Northampton,
Valentine Beiks,
3 Thomas Bull, Chester,
' Robert Coleman, Lancaster,
John Carson, Dauphin,
1 Willfam Witfon, Northumberland,
Samuel Poftlethwaite, Cumberland,
John Hay, York,
1 Benjamin Elliott, Huntingdon,
Ephrzim Douglas, Weilmoteland,
' John Woods, Allegheny,
* Thomas Stokely, Washington, ■
Whereupon— It was Biiantmoufiy agreed to re.
* commend and support the foregoing ticket at ihe
: /aid ele&ion.
Attest, J. BIDDLE, Chairman.
c DANIEL SMITH, Sec'y.
TO sHE FREEMEN OF PESHSYLVANIA.
» v It having been determined by the legidature at
its last fefiion, after several endeavors ta obtain di
s R,ri<3»s had failed* that lhe cleft ion for ele&ors of
a president and vice-president of the United States,
" fhoald be fcy the citizens-os the ttate at large, a
meeting was held, cowipofed of a number of citi
zens from various wF the ftate,iiupludng fe
■ veral members of this (late in congrcfs, and of both
" houses of Hie state Icgifiaturc, which we''"" con.
vened at tire ffatj-houfe previously ta th'
> mrn» of the legislature, wlten after d
' to fapport the following ticket, they ag
* commend ft to the fepport of their filld
Thomas M'Kean, ctty of Philade"
Jacob Morgan, county of do.
1 James Boyd, Chelfer.
fi ,r)a » HattzeH, Northampton,
* jofepfi Heitler, Brrks.
1 William M'Clay, Dauphin.
: James Whitehill, Lancalter.
> William Irviu, Cumberland.
f Abraham Smith, Franklin.
William Brown, Mifflin.
John Piper, Bedford.
r John Smilie, Fayette.
P Jsmes Edgar, Waftington.
, . C?' The printers throughout the (late are rr»
j qaefted to giv' v • abiSi" '■< Vets a place in their ps«
I pers.
. . i
The Ed.ito >■ ■) Star,,a paper jjrin
ted at Belfaft i .is • t Tie other printers in
that town we :■ ri 16th S»pt. on a
charge of high ucaioa.—, military force ac
companied the civil officers—when as the editor of
another paper fays, a common couftable might hare
done the htifinefs, no one being djfpofed to refill .
the authority, —■■ "TV "*"
The new French minister Aubert Dubayet, has
arrived a; Confiantinople.
Mr. Hammond, on the igth Sept. embarked at
Cuxhaven, on his return to England.
Col. Crawfurd who is mentioned in the Hani
burgh papeis, was wounded in an action on the
25th Aug. he was exchanged, aud the Eng'.ift pa
pers date, was in a fair way of recovery. _ v
Louis the 1 Stli, has found refuse in the tlomin.-
ons of the Empress of Russia. The English pa
pers fay that the King of Frufiia would not con
firm to his hrihg at Brunfwick.
Lord Dorchcfter and family are arrived at Port!-
mouth England.
The gartifon of Q.fahar confilfs of 5600 men.
Reading. Berks county,
October 11, 179^*
Mr. Fenno,
By publijktnu the following Rcmarls and Return jo*
witloblige , A Subfei'ber.
General Daniel Heifler, who, it is wt>l known*
| voted agninft making the appiopriations (or catrv
ing the treaty with into cfifeft, h""*
ing his condu(£i not approved of by-his
coeffituents, resigned his (eat in congress
fcquecceof which, the gcrernor of this (late iffoea
his writ*, dire&ed to the (hetiffsof Berks and $JO
zerne counties, commanding them to hold an elec
tion for a person to fcrve the next session of c<rn~
I grefs in his place, at the fame 'ime that a memfe"
was to be eicfled to Ferve in the next congteis.—■-
Colonel Jofep'n Heifler, cousin to thegeneral, a.»
of the fame political opinions, was a candidate,
but the friends ef government, thinking
) change would not be for the better, propefed Mr-
George Ege, who was known to be a firm federa -
ift. They also proposed Chrillian I.Jwer, # e
ralift, (and who, as colonel of rr>.lit i«, jvafr decide y
in favour of government during the inf«rte£lio r >
the westward) as a fcnator for Berks and Daup 1
counties, in oppoliiion to Gabriel Heiller, v - >0
thinks with his brother Daniel. Every exerlioa
{ wasmade,.on both fides, forupwardsof two rno.;
previous to the election j and on the day, G— *'«I
Heifter even went out of h'< owit .de&io* diflrid
eo another, where he tho't he had more isfluence,
nxi appeared on the ground, openly soliciting for
himfelf and cousin : and viduals and liquor were
given by colonel Htifttt'fl friend# in Reading.
The result will appear from the following llatement,
which is authentic, and by which it will also appear
that, notwithstanding every exertion, and colonel
Heifter's great influence in this county, (which pre
vented many well-disposed persons from voting a
irainft him, under the idea that all opposition wa«
vain) the federal ticket aarried by a majority of new
five hundred votes.
Berks co. present congress, George Ege, 1907
Luzerne, ditto ditto 132
2039
Berks co. ditto Jof. Heifter, 1498
Luzerne, ditto ditto 55
>553
Majority for George Ege, 386
Berks co. next congress, George Ege, 189?
Luzerne, ditto ditto 132
2028
Berks co. ditto Jof. Heifter, 1483
Luzerne, ditto ditto 45
'538
Majority for George Ege, 490
Berks co. fenatsr, Christian Lower, 1819
Dauphin, ditto ditto 609
2428
Berks co. ditto Gabriel Heifter, 1547
Dauphin, ditto ditto, 572
2119
Majority for C. Lower, 309
The following article appears in the Aurora of
this morning ; according to this, gen. Jourdans re
treat, &c. were preconcerted, " the plan of the
Auftrians being now a second time compleatly un
hinged."
HAMBURGH, Sept. 14.
/ Ext rat 9 of a letter, dated Paris, September 5.
; " The accounts of Jourflan's retreat out of the
•tircle of Bavaria to that of Franconia, wtreyefter
/day the fubjeft of all political converfationst This
J circumstance very little disquiets those who wish for
j a speedy peace ; and bets were offered, that this
| event would' greatly accelerate the conclusion of
■ peace, and that at least in one month, the war would
be terminated.
" Amongst others, I heard a perfoa, employed
in the militai-y committee, fay with a decree of con
fidence, that in a flrort time the military operations
would produce quite unexpected results ; he aflbred
that tbe French plan of operations had not under
£<J#eihe least changement during the whole cam
\ -nd that, on the contrary, the plan of the
A. , ; was now a second time cdnmpletely un
|- f 1 .1, ; " '
pe&ator of Paris fays : Pttople are at a
I c stride wfry the alliance with Pruflia which
: leem'has attained its maturity is not made
Time will shew it.
i»-aj> ankle <utvltiiu(fott, By"vTrtuc
-h during two years commencing the firft
Jre [September 22, 17963 no member of
can be brought in the miniftfy or
,directory. Every body is therefore eager to know
whether from this to thej2d Sept. any change will
take place in the present tniniftry.—The parties are
very active and the one inVeighs against Laeroix
with more violence than before, and the other a-
Cochon.
[The following paragraph from a Paris paper will
shew the precarious tenure by which the French
hold Italy. We have a great number of similar
accounts; but the largest daily papei is not fuf
ficient to detail all the interesting fa&j received
ftom Europe—Of what use is French republi
canism, if it is to be maintained only by the
sword ?] (N. T. Minerva.)
We have received an account from the army.of
Italy, of great cruelties excrcifed by the Italians
on our troops, during Wurmfer's invalion. The
news of our defeat was diffufed through the dates
of Venice, where joy shone on every countenance,
•nd where the most severe epigrams were circulated
against the French—After tbe battle of S*lo, the
wounded were sent to the hospital at Cremona }
not a carriage could he frfund 011 the road to carry
them thither; notwithstanding their wounds they
were obliged to make a forced march on foot ; se
veral of them dropped down on the road, covered
with blood, and groaning with pain ! The peal'ants
insulted them, spit in their faces, and left them to,
perilh. The governor of Azola fujfered them to
pass the night in the streets, refufing to give them
either provision or shelter.
At CanalMaggiore the military chest was pil
laged in passing the Po ; a erowd of people assem
bled at the found of the alarm bell, which was the
signal of mafiacre j a great number of Frenchmen
were unaffected with pitchforks and bludgeons, and
thrown into the Po. The Italians, and particu
larly the Venetians, tore their flefli with their nails
and teeth; a French commandant was affiffinated
by jhefe cannibals, in the presence of his wife and
childien, who had embarked on the Po. After
they had mutilated him, the\ threw his msngled
limbs into the boat in which his family were, who
shrieked with horror Tl roughout ths Milancfe,
even at Parma and Piacenza, the French were in'
fulted; tlie people thought they were loft beyond
refotirce. On the 14th the change of fortune
was v»ounced, when those men who the day be
fore were cruel and insolent, appeared humble,,
supple and fluttering. Oh>! let us hasten to ter
minate this war, for there is not a nation on the
globe more perfidious than the Italians!
(L' Ami des Lctx.)
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
NEW-YORkToaober 62.
The legislature of France have under difarfGon,
a prwpofuion of granting a general amirefty for all
revolutionary crimes, conjmitied b:fore the 4th
* /i ' *
£1 Brtimaire of the 4th year. This miafiire is vio
•e, lently oppofea by Boiffy d'Anglas. — Emigrants,
or however, are excepted from this proposition.
re Another measure under deliberation i«'lo repeal
— the law of 3d Brumaire, which rendert the relati
it, ons of Emigrants incapable of holding deployments
ar in the republic. In the debate,"3 menSjSStmnatk
lei ed on the folly of such a law, as 0
e- feudal principle of punishing whole famjlpFs for the
a- crimes of one of ita branche*—alluding tb.'confif
as cation for treason. He observed also AJe rnconiif
ir teney of their conduct, for even whilejtfhat law is
in force, Barras, a member of the dinSpory, has a
brother who is an emigrant.
The direftorv have officially notified tbe minister
, of war, to reduce the military of the interior* t©
the peace eitablifhment—retaining oply in France
the national guards and gendarmerie, and the troops 5
necessary for thegamfons—the reft of the troops
0 are to retire to the conquered countries for
~ at the exoenfe of their enemies,
COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
27 Fruftidor, September 13.
Duehatel again brought forward (lis plan of re
converting into paper the affignats which had been
annulled, and which remained in the national trea
sury 5 and also the plan of burning, in the pre
sence of the aciminiftration, those contained in the
— public chests of the department*. Adopted.
On the proposition of Merlin, the council grant*
ed to th« soldiers imprisoned in the interior, the
choice of their advocates at the places where they
; 8 are to be tried.
Delaunay, in the name of a special commiffioo,
slated, that during the rebellion in the western de
ep partments, a number of afls had been framed, and
_ arbitrary judgments in civil cases pronounced by
!(j persons who were rot competent. Were these
ads and sentences to be annulled ! This would be
>f to disturb the quiet of families, and kindle up new
e- animosities. The reporter proposed to render va
ie lid all those that had been enaded since the 10th
n. ef March, 1793, to the iff of Thermidor of the
fourth year. Adjourned.
PARIS, August 21.
A letter from Basil states, that tbe emigrants
se who arc compelled to quit the S«fifs territory, ex
r- hibit the most lamentable fpeflacle. They are ex
clnded from every other country. The different
j r states of Germany invaded by the French, or in
i s dread of a« invafron, have even refufed them per
af million to pass thro' their country. The roads of
Id Switzerland are crowded with these unhappy men.
Many of them commit . suicide ; others a(k either
•d for death or relief of the passengers, who refufe them
j both. Old men, worsen and children are seen over
is come with fatigue, testing on the threshold of a
d farm-houfe, devouring in silence the bread which
r _ a difdainful pity bestows on them. The French
1- government, then, which makes kings tremble, af
ie fe<9:B to dread tbefe old men, these women, and these
i. children I—These are the beings whom they con
demn to death ! In vain do we consider whither
a these unfortunate beings can direst their eourfe.-—
h Perhaps their only resource is to people the deserts
e of Siberia, and to repair to that spot to which ihe
empress ®f Ruflia fends tbe grcateft criminals iji.Lei i
ie" "dnTOtnteni: "baFftiH how are ttiey to pet there ?—
ft How can they travel 600 leagues without afiiftance,
if thro' foreign csautries, or countries which, alarrr,
,r ed at their own dang'e, cannot fyropathife in the
,v misfortunes of these numerous viSims. The hcari
1] (hudders at the recital of horror 9.
e Some priests, banished frofei Switzerland, have
x written to the legislative bedy, to tell thf-m, that
1, certain of finding death uhitherfocver they may
go, they are determined to seek it in the territory
of Fiance.
!1 But let us now call our eyes on a pi&ure «io less
h affli&ing—thofe unhappy emigrants who were (hip«
ir wreckt'«lon our c»a(ls, arc about to be tried again,
f. What ! at the very moment that we profefs <o re
d trim to the principles of humanity, we are going to'
i- imitate the most barbarous people, and renew the
ie human lacrifices of Taurus ! These men, having
been acquitted by one tribunal, it uppears to me to
>sb« a grofa violation of justice to have them tried by
is another. But what do I fay > they are sent to a
ie military eommiflion. And why to a military com
■S million ■ Why these perpetual violations cf the fucrtd
?, laws of juflicc ?—Oh 1 when shall we be reftorcd
d to those humane fentimeirts, the names of which
ie are inceffant)y on our lips, though their fubftancc
;is never inour hearts'—(/„* Cenfeurdes Joumaux.)
y —
y Instead of accelerating tbe progress of reforma
•- tion in Europe, the French fecra to have vied
d with the combined powerp in retarding the propaga
s tien of their principles..
0. Men j idge of principles by praßicc and ejfeSs
o If the French, wherever they go, oppress the peo
n pie more fevevely than the old governments, it will
not be easy to persuade them to attempt a change ;
1. and I his, in many iuftancej, has been precisely the
1- fait.
e The conduit of the French natron towards emi
n grants of almost all descriptions, rs vindiflivr beyond
d example. They not only doom them to loss of ef
- late, and death, if they can seize but they
s drive them, by arms or by treaty, from all the
d countries where they obtain power or influence
d The most peaceable emigrant, who has been pro
r scribed from France, is not permitted to (heiter
d himfelf in the inhospitable mountains of Switzer
0 land, where the utmost labour can barely foroe from
r, the barren ridges, a poor scanty subsistence.
Nations, which are fpeftators of such scenes, wili
j withdraw their assent to the fuper-erainent excel
e lence of republican government, and reconcile them
- selves, as well as they can, to the evils of the old i
> governments. Happy will it be, if the ignorance !
. and madness of the French reformers (hould not !
e suspend the general regeneration of Europe for an '
age to come.! — [Minerva.)-
INSPRUCK, August 21.
An official report hasten published here, con- «
taming in, fubftauce what follows ,
Field marlhal count Wurmfer has diredted Bat
ron de Melcamp, quarter-master general, who only 1
, left the head quarters 'at Trenton the i 9 ihinftant, 1
il -and is since arrived here, to promulgate the confo- 1
t» latory news, that the Imperial Italian army had [
. taken fa advantageous a pofiu'tjn from Pej( trt t
, Tieni, as to enable it to render abortive every h'of- t
tile attempt. Mean .time the archduchess Marin c
} ElizaJjetfi has left lnfpruck, and all her important t
. tffe£h Have been embarked. The archives artd a!) 1
■ important records end writings belonging to go- -<
v-ernmcnt are removed; and the families of many t
( officers of state begin t'rf take flight. These ar* r
; mere meafnres of precaution, becatife of the epi- :
. dfrnicaTdtforder which rages among the French, i
. The garrifos of Martttn, which is fupph'etik with t
g frelh troops and a'yaft quastity of provisions, the {
i meafurcs.of the deface already adopted, and the
ftiong assurances of field mavfhal Wurmfer, lesve
- u9 to apprehend no immediate danger. The for.
> trefs.of Kuffflein has been provided with a fitfli.
■ cient garrison, heavy artillery, and provisions foj
! (one y * ar.
• .:v TYROL, Aoguft 28. l
The tieatKquarteiyi of field mutfhal Wurmfer are :
no\* removed from Trent, to Botien, where all pre- i
paraftons are ma'ele f<» his reception. Tbecsvalry, <
. for want of fofage, will be obliged to go back
1 much farther. >The«iftricts before Botzen, are
avL very mountainous, but behind that ,place rife
" which will fcrve to defend thecoun»
fry^l^jtj^j*kcre the army of Wurmfer is concen
trating vftlnrkecrs j but in order to be f
. able to maintain lumfelt. i\ihat-petition, it n, rw- 1
• c<HT»ry fur the iield'-.marlhari that the corps in Mi 9
■ rear fhoaid-'prevent the French from penetrating t
from the fide of the countr/ of Verarlberg apd Ba- 1
, vafo. Tfje progress of general Moreau fcems to
. becoaie dangerous, as he appears is come into the t
| tieiti marlhal's rear. A■' I
r It is this instant reported, that general Buona
: partt af'er taking possession of Roveredo, is march- I
: l"g and that part of the Flench column, t
r whtfh f>«netra»ed by tlxt Lake of Constance, is di
- its march againff lnfpruck, by the valley i
1 of ;the>river Inn. |
: f}« tfij 24th, the French ptnetiated front hence ■
over ttyj Lech into Bavaria, t«ok a great many
pie<jic&of cannon, and between two and three thou
i land jfrifoftcrs. This day »11 the remaining French
. ioldiafs march into Bava,-. , and only leave a few ]
. hundred men here. O ving to the armillice con- ;
cludejj, we may confic urfclvei as perfectly fafe,
AUG?' August 26.
F O a * >> ■ - 11 o'clock in the morn
. ing, tht ter this city. The Auftrians
• who we rtc- an icLechj retreated to In
-1 gslftad le their relerve remains
. itatiwi
1 A, < , . enate went to meet Gen.
I Moves ;0 rfcsivt-J r'lem in the molt affable
1 and hi naui ■; >, alighted at the sign of
ihe thi ' rench are still in pursuit
of iht o vvcre in Suabia. There was
■ ft'" a' ar Lechfeld ;on the 23d,
thirty i> . roops, under generals St.
. Cyr, I :..erarn! C irbe, marched to that dif-
< -jjci • hi;t from Lower Bavaria.
. In an .iction vrhj <; nerf a few days ago near
1 a gr/tat number of meu.l
. Among the French troops there are some of the
, fined and the bell made fellows ever seen. The
corps of general Mortau, who commands the centre
: in theft rqvirons, ampunts to 45,000 m«n ; his left
wi»g was combined, through Donawerth in tht
environs of Archftadt, with general Joutdaa, and
. the light wing advances agaif,i{ Munich and the
frontieig of TyroU
■ Official Bulletin feat by his Royal Highuefs the
Archduke Charles, to the Austrian Coaimiffary
at Ratilbon.
Head-Charters at Sulzbach,
August 25.
Having received intelligence, that the corps of
, the army under the command of the general of ar
. tillery, Count Wartenfleben had be?n (again obliged
r to retreat, and that the enemy had effedted some
, mafchcs, to enable them to reach the jDanube be
- fore his royal highness j his royal highness hasten
! Ed by forced marches to 'the relief of the said ge
. neral of artillery, and attacked 2ad and
I 23d inft. the enemy's right wing under the com
| mand of gen. Bemadotte, near Teiningen, and
, Neumaik, and turned it entirely. In 'coiifeqiience
j of an order for a general attack 011 the 24th, gives
I afterwards to the general of artillery Coant War
tenfleben, his royal highness attacked on the fame
day, gained the road from Neumark to Amberg
| united himfelf with Count Wartenfleben near Am
• b cr 8« attacked there the main body of the enemy's
under the command of the commander in chief Jour
. dan, and repulsed it. The enemy last near 3000
men in killed, wounded and prisoners, two Hand of
i colours, and several pieces of cannon. At the
. fame time his royal highness in order to threaten
; the flauk aud rear of the enemy, gave orders to a
Itrong column to march from Neumark straight to
Nuremberg, which column according to the re-
I ports just leceived, has advanced through Nurem- ;
. berg, and Erlangen, is far as Bayerdorf, and capi '
turedat Nuremberg several pieces of cannon and 1
• ammumtiou waggons and took besides many baa
pge waggons and prisoners. The Eledorate Par
latme fottrefs of Rochenberg, occupied by the e
■ nemy, surrendered to Field Marlhal Lieutenant
tdotzc, on which occasion the garrison gave them-
U P R"fo«r S of war, and eight pieces of ran
non were taken. j
j
BALTIMORE, Odober 24. ]
Jottrdan, it appears, has met with a second de- <
feat, and Moreau another vi&ory. There seems in '
this, U.mething like anothpr crossing-os the-Rhine (
affair, between the two generals, to give the latter '
an opportunity of passing the Danube, and fecur- '
tng.its banks, down 10 the river Inn ; from which
to Vienna is only about 50 miles, and no other ri- 1
vei fufficicntly large, in the least to retarci the march
of victorious army. If this be the objedt of Jour
dan's feigning a defeat, our next advices will very
probably inform us of the total rout of the army
both of the archduke and Wartenfleben, by the
former, and of the running of parcllcls before the '
walls of Vienna, by the latter ;~and that (Mantua
being taker.) the whole army of Italy is callcd to
their ?.ffi3st)ce to make a ftn-ihing- (bake, a'nJ plant
the tree of liberty in the paWc-yaW of he t.
or. But if Jourdan ha 9 been abf -nly . 1
to the extent asserted in the Loixio > jjr ;
loft 15,000 men, Moreau's fuccefles wilt t\ c"
difafteiS, and neither he nor jourdan can jj: t " v
thrmfelrrs the-lraft security, Until eycimp . ' jncc.
more on the right bank of the Rhine. Such it 'he
ardour with which Auflrians may fight when Aaftrii
it the object of an enemy ; and Tueh is the fueiiefs
that geßerajly attends the latl efforts of thfoeMt
patriotifai.
GAZETTE OF THE UWITED STATUS MARINE LIST.
' «i . ■ ' .
PHILADELPHIA, ©Sober 27 .
'j.-.Aiwr - : '• • ■—r ■
ARRIVED. Days-
Ship Nincy, Kellibegs s9
Brig Grace, Willis, .. Liverpool 37
Schr. Polly, Obsr, Paflamsquoddy 17
Robert,. Cotterell, Currituck 10
Swan, Dolby, Virginia ij
Sloop Patience, Willis, New-York 5
Regulator, Seguing, ' do. 5
Charming Sally, Lark, Peterfburgh 35
Sally, Potter, Richmond j
Norfolk,. October 20.
On Tuesday arrived in Hampton Roads, the
ship Apollo, Gape. Jones, from Liverpool, which
h'e ieftThe I.7th 'Auguli. ,
Sept. 23, in lat. 49, 3; iong. 27, to, spoke
th<?si.ip Orino, capt, Cufhing, out 4.8 days from
Demarara, bound to Hamburg.
Sept. 38, iu lat, 4J, 5, long. 44, 30, spoke
the Mars, out ij days from Philadelphia
bound to Falmouth.
On 9th October, in lat. 40, 40, long. 66,
spoke a brig bound to New-port, Rhode-Wand,
then out 35 days from Cadiz, who informed capt*
Jo.nes that there was actually a war between Spaigt
an 4 Engl, d. As it blew frelh, did not learn tfr?
brig's name.
WANTED,
A WOMAN who is capable of taking care of a Child
and who will occaConally do oth;r fcrvice in a small fa
mily ; a good charter will be neceflary. Apply at
No.' 109, Sprcicc-llreet. AJit. 17. 6
, t—r ——— p. ...... .
LOST, yelterday afternoon,
A BUNCH KEYS, the owner of which will be
thankful te any person wlio may have found the l'amc, i»
liav? them with the printer- OA. 27. 4
A few Pipes of WINE,
Imported in the brig FAIViE, from Madeira, to be foil
by MORD EC A I LEWIS,
Who has also to dispose of on rcaJonable terms,
) KISH LIN'ENS, well affc-rted
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS
WIDE NANKEENS
COSSAS AND BAPTAS
RAVENS DUCK
DIAPERS ~ u ~ • '
QUICK SILVER
CHINA
ROL L BRIMSTONE, Sec,
Oftoher 2 :- ftwtm
For SALE or CHARTER,"
jp-m Tbe SrigaMine LIBEKTT,
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Miller.
Now tying at Albertfon's wharf-r
---is an excellent veflel, will carry a-
1300 barrels flour, is completely
found, and ready to receive a caigo. For terms, ap
ply at No. 149, South Front-street.
Where may te had by the package only,
A small consignment of DRY GOODS, just re
ceived—confuting off 11 . ■■' 1 1 -
Cloak, }
Superfine Hairbine, & >■ CAMBLETS,
China j
Crapes,
Carded Poplins,
Sattinet Lasting, See.
Alft a few bales CALCUTTA GOODS, viz.
Gnzenihs,
Baftas,
Coflaes,
Tickerys,
Punjim Cloths,
Humhums,
Gurrahs,
Black TafFetiej,
Barhar,
Pullicat, & [ HANDKERCHIEFS,
Bandanna j
Choppa Romals,
Patna Chintzes, &c. &e.
Likewise a few hhds prime Molafles,
A large quantity of bed Rhode-HUud Cheese,
jo boxes Spermaceti candles, and
A few barrels Beef.
October 27. *eod 8t
For BRISTOL,
™ e smp
PHILADELPHIA,
Theodore Bliss, master.
A new ship, on her fecor.d voyage, with the b-ft
accommodations for palTengers, and it intended to fail
with all expedition. For freight or passage apply t«
the Master on board, or to
Thomas & John Clifford:
Who have just imported in fiid vefTel, and have for
sale, besides their general adortinent
-{ IRONMONGERY,
A quantity of €bc drawn and common fliarp ami
flat point NAILS ; double & single roll'd Sheet Irqn
Iron Pots, Kettles, and Iron Weights, of all fna'3 j
London and Bristol Pewter in casks, assorted ; boxes
of Tin Plates; cases of Men's, Women's and Boys*
Hats ; crates of earthen and flint Glass Ware; crates
of Phials; boxes of Window-Glass ; boxes of long
and short Pipes ; Copper in Sheets ; Oval Quart Bot
tles in hampers; also, a' few casks of botrted Beer,
and two bales of Superfine Broadcloths and Caffi
meres.
OfloWr *7- mittln^
For Boston, Newbury-Port and Ports
mouth, New-Hampshire,
The Schooner LUQY, \
'l Daniel Prowfe, master; will fail ir.
{ t! * course of a week, and take f'reighr
I moJerate terms, for which; at
pafTage, apply on board, or to
J° fc P h Anthony, 8 s Co.
O&ober 17.
al 0Wafliington Letter jr.
and 3 Days Drawing arc arrived at the
office No. 147,'Cheftrut ftroet.
N Prizes in the above Lottery are exchanged for tickets
warranted undrawn.
019 - ia - tt&s
Imported in the late arrivals,
And to be Sold by
JACOB PARKE,
No. 49, North fide of High-ftrcet, Philadelphia,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT or
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c.
AMOKGST WHICH AKR
SMITHS* Arivits, Vice*, and Files; Saw-mill,. Cross
cut, Hand, and other Saws; Carpenters' Planes, Chisels,
and other Tools; Carving Chisels and Gouges; Locks,
Hinges, Bolts and Latchej; Nails, Sprigs, Tacks, and
oerews; Fryir.g-.Pan.. Smoothing-irons; Shovels and
longs; Coffee Mills; Candlelticks; Snuffers; Warming.
Pans; Table -Knives and Forks; Riding Whips; Bar
vi W |f Cn ' °'her Pocket Kniw; Razors; Sciffars-;
Needles; Ivory juid Horn Combs; best Kirby Fish
Hooks; brass Cabinet Furniture; Waggon Boxes', Sheet
c jji* an ? tm Bridle Bits and Stirrups ; ditto
■saddle Nails; Girth and Straining Webbs; —with mod
kind, of Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, Brass Wares,
O&cber i 4. tnwf6w
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of Madeira Wme, landing from On
board the schooner Lucy, Capt. Prows, at Chefnut
ftreet wjjtrf, and for sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews,
Oft. T4 mw No. 86, So. Wharves.
This Day is
A SATIRICAL POEM, CALLED
He would be a Poet,
Or, " Mature will be Nature Jlill;»
As HEROIC POEM.
To fjjbicb is annexed*
A Thinkfgiving Efuftle on Electioneer
ing Success.
Br GEOFFRY TOUCHSTONE.
Prfatwl forth* auth«r, sad fold by Mr. Benjirtm
d V i'/- S Ji ar ket-ftreet, and the principal
Boakfellers in the City.
October 16,
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open his school on Mon
, 'he 3 111: mil. »t ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Street*. 1
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from io to t o'cloek 1
o» Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for <
e^ from 6to 9 o*cl©ck on the evenings'o J
In addition to a number of new cotillions, he means to '
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels. 1
Note. The firft: praAifing ball to be on Tuesday fe- <
veiling, the firft of November, and to be continued every <
Tuesday, during the fealon. t
ft»ee° r termS ' &C ' cn l n,re at fc!s hoirfe, No. 134, Market
- ofl - ' 7 " . eo*-: J
Wanted to Rent, <
Ji convenient, well furnifhed Bed Chamber,
With a good fire-place, in an airy and healthy part tif
JTl' he P" fon wh ® Wants to rest flich a chamber.
Would have no objection to board, or breakfaft only, with i
the family occupying the house, as may be most agreeable.
Apply to the ptinter.. , 4
September 29. taw
Boarding and Lodging j
TV? 0 GENTLEMEN may be accommoda'ed with I
Boarding and Lodging, in a private family and plcafant
v part of the city. Apply to the Printer of the Ga2ette of
the United States. ..
OftQber »*• tt&stf
For Sale, f
A Complete font of Brevier,
ENtirely nev , and yet unopened. The weight of this
font is about 311 lb. It is from the Fmindery of
Wilson & Sonß,Glafgow,and will be fold at cost & charges.
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the United
States, 119 Chefirot-ftreet.
September 47. j t f
FOR SALE.
A PLANTATION,
A BOU J 12 mi '" from C»y. fitimte in A bine* «*
£1 ton Townlhip, Montgomery-County ; containing
£ 3tr "- • !* w ftonc '*0 ftoncs h,*&* , room, on a
floor fire place, m each, a stone Ife Hone fp, i„.
Wc, over an excellent spring of water, a barn, stable.,
fttds, barracks, Itc. A large apple orchard, and a variety of
Otherfruil, about 12 acres bf good meadow well watered
and wood fufficient for fire,and fencing the place. Possess,-
' lTi y C ° f Ap -"' nCxt ' in this city
will be take,, in exchange, or MORRIS and NICHOLSONS
-Noies m Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Strcn.
. Philadelphia, September 13, >796. tt |jf fe
Lottery and Broker's Office^
V) _ - _ _ South Stccup 3TKSST. f.
1 S o m i 'f 6 Lot,er y> a, for sale—a
the f<¥ e " ffimatlon - and -
Check Books kept for examination and r rifterine for
the City cf Washington, No. 2) and Pattern botfe'ries, W
tirt-° r 7\' C u \ rC / OW , f ' ravv:r g information where C
' Hctcl and Public Schocl Lo «"y.I
, b Jk C subs:f übf: j ib ? r application of the public bi
and his friends, who wiflj to purchase or fell Bank S-ocl
fertiEcates, 6|lls of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands' M
\ V , 0 1 r -r' n t! r '". Cy ° n de K U ot property. d
. , V .^• lfo _ > r ' c! ' ets ,n tlle Scliuylkill Bridge Lottery fer
tS C " h ' Whicfl «riy in J
Philadelphia, ,3, =796^'
Mr. FRA NC IS, "
'he New Theatre)
TAKES this opportunity of rcturuifig thanks to his '
1 frliohr, and to the public. Mr. Francs intends, r
" '/ Tl from Marybitd, to OfCen a public aca
demy tm danang, tpon a plan entirely new. He ?
flatters himlelf that hw attention to his pupils hi- Cl
therto renders any proroifes of conducing his future
fLlitmes on the molt liberal and flriaefl terlftj. of pro - si
pricty, totally unncccflary.
N. B. Private Wition aa ufi.tl, ,l
} ' nt * Taw "
4
City cf Washington.
:he SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
« s FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
, A magnificent ) ao,ooc dollars, St )
dwclling-houfe, j calh 30,000, are J •5 0,00 °
1 ditto if.ooo & calh 25,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000
' r ditto 5,000 & calh 5,000 10,000
• 1 ditto 5,000 & calh 5,00b 10,000
C. I calh prize of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each,are • 10,00 a
f,. 10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
: 1, ) »o do. 500 - - 10,000
ks, 00 do. 100 - - tojooo
tid 100 do. 50 jo,ooo
nd -400 do. 15 • id,ooo
lg. r,000.d0. ao .ifljooo 1
ar- , 15,000 do. io • t 'r/bjooa
Wh 1T),739 Prizes.
eet JJ>?6i Blank*.
ttO —_ _ - «. -f
-50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 406,000
___
N. B. To favour those Who may take a quantity ol
_ Tickets,tlir prize of 40,000 dol^fswill be the Last drawn
and the 30,00 c the last but bm :
And approved notes, feenring payment in either monty
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received sot
On any ""mber not less than 30 tickets.
it- r' l ' 4 Lottery Will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be erected in the City of Walhiogton—
Two beautiful designs arc already fele&ed fdr the entire
fronts on two of the public squares ; from these prawings
• it ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dedu&ion of five per ceht. will be made to defray
the necessary cxpenfes of printing, the surplus
will be made a part of the fundhitendea for theNatiscal
University, to be ere&ed within the city of Walhington.
The Drawing will commence as foop as the tickets afe
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
aftet it is finilhad; and any prizes for whkh fortunate
numbers are not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be confidercd as given towards
rl the fund for the University ;it being determined to fettle
the whole bulinefs in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take tip the bonds given as feeurity.
The real fecurtties given for the payment of the Prizes,
— lre held by the President and two DireiftOrs of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more thin half the a
ciount of the lottery.
The twenty lour gentlemen who by appointment of
the late CommilEtners allifted :n the management of Mie
Hotel Lottery are requested to undtrtajte this arduous talk
1. k second time on behalf ef the public ; a fufficießt num
It ber of these having kindly acceptid, i't is hoped thjt the
I friends to a National Ufiiverfity and the other federal ob
-0 jedts may continue to favor the delign.
By accounts received from the diflei-eht parts of the
0 Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been ferit for sale, the public are affujed that the
- drawing will speedily tommtnie, and that the care and
f caution unavoidably necessary to insure a iafe disposal of
the tickets, has the fnor indifpenlable.
t SAMUE.I ~*ZODGET.
.§„ Tickets may be had at the B: /sos Columbia j of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Oilman, Softon 1
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells,
Capper's Ferry. w
Watsons Answer tc Gibbon. <
f ■■ ■ ' ]
JVST RECEIVED,
1 And for laic by J. OEMROD, No. 41, Chefrftit-llteet, 1
Apology for Christianity, .
h a ftrie\ of Letters, addrejjed t* '
Edward Gibbon, Esq.
Aothof of the History of the Decline and Fafl of the j
Roman EmpirS:
, Bv d. d. t. r. s. Bilhop of LaudalT. '
t (Price 75 cents bound.)
f Watson's Answer to Paine, '
To be had at the fame place. ' *
, Tie enemies of Religion ere a wake ! Lit not ber
friends Jleef.
thw&ftf
Philip Nicklin & Co. '
HAKE FOR SALE,
Souchong j
Hyfcm Skin / s
Young Hyson S PRESH TEAS : f
1 Hyson and \ j
Imperial ■*' 1
Yellow Nankeens •'
China Ware, assorted in Boxet »nd Cheßs
Quiclcfilver "
lah Ba,ulanr ' o Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in °
Londan Market MADEIRA WINi! "
London particular V ill pipes, hogsheads, & „
Acw-York Market 3 quarter caflu „
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hoglkeadt .
Sugar Candy by the Box !(
Sail Canvas No. 1 a S u
Lead in flieets lt
3 Calks of Cutlery assorted <<
A few chests of Manchester 6ood«, aflorted tltsck. "
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black sewing.silk* ' 1
8 Tlerces Virginia Snake-root. n
Nails assorted in calks h
J".'y 18 P
' Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE. 8
No. <3 South Third ftreet,oppofite the national new Bank »
CAMUEL M FRAUNCES a»d JOHN VAN R£ED
tJ have entered into co-partnerlhip, under the firm nf
FRAUNCES & VAN RF P ED, in thl'buflntfsofßSen ,
Conveyancers and Commiffton merchants. They buy and
fc on commission every species of Cock, »t« of hand, ft
bills of exchange, houses and lantls, &c.
Mokey procured on deposits, &c. &c." all kinds c' b '
writmgs in the conveyancing line, dode with ncatnefsand "
dispatch -, accounts adjusted, and book, fettled, ia the
most correct manner. Cor ft ant attendance will be p-ven
They solicit a scare of the public favor : they are d-trf V
mined to endeavour to defervc it. ** •
N. B. The utmost feci*ecy observed. "
SAMUEL M. iRAUNCES.
, „ JOBN VAN REED
Pbilad. Augult 17. T 700. mjtwtf
1 o BE bOLD, ' '
At No. 128, Xorth Second, Street, and by federal of
the Apothecaries in this City. '■
T^ S rlg . tlt '° rcm " v e pains i»d iofkmms f
the buman b®dy, as fecuted to Dr ELISHA *"
' rr I , Pj" cnt > wj,«h inftrumentsand direaions ne
. ceffary for the This mode of treatment is oanir,V
. larly ufeful in relieving p a i„, j,, the h „ d> lccth
de, liomich, back, rheumdtifms, recent gouts, iic. 4 C
N u tw.thftandtn ß ihe ut,l u> , of lhis c?is n =
fumed but there are cafe. i„ which this and every ofhci
Itmedy qjay sometimes fnt. ' o,nei
June 1,
liv
■
5° Dollats Reward.
11, Loft, a red Morocco Pockei~Book,
BETWEEN the Center Houfe.uid the White Horse in
Market-street; containing two 20 dollar bank-notes, <ine
of SO dollars, and one branch-bank-note of one dollar ;
George Weed's no:e of hand for 250 dollars, endorsed
A. Joseph ; a note of Jackson lor 100 dollars; a
note of Mr. Carr for 100 dollars; a note for 75 dollar:,-
and one of JVSr. Drate {or 65 dollars—and fevci otixcr
notes, belonging to the Jufofcriler.
The Public are rtfpe&fully .desired not to receive any
of thofc notes, as they can be of no use to any person but
tha owner, payment being 1 Hopped, Whoever will deli-
ver the fame at the oifice of this Gazette lhall receive the
above retvard. AARON
Ociober at. *3
■ . A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufaaory, situate
in a convenient part of the cky ; the v.orks almoin new,
on an entirely cotiftiu&ion, and built of the bed"
material#, and may be set to work immediately. Persona
who wtfh to pUrchase, are rcquefted to apply at No. 2.73,
South Second Strict.
September 13. * t f tf
JOHN MILLER, Jue. & Co.~
No. 8, CHESNVT STREET,
■of Have Imported in the late veflels from Europe, &c.
AMD HAVE lOR SALE,
: A general ajlortrcent of GOODS, fuitsble to the feafen—
'I'y Amongst which are,
sot T3ROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
•D Plain fuid twijl'd COAXINGS,
>n * Rose striped i»d point BLANKETS,
FLANNELS and BAISES,
lre HATS aflorted in cases,
''g 8 IRISH LINENS,
INDIA GOODS, generally,
"■7 A Consigned Invoke of IRONMONGERY, 1
1,1 Comprising a capital assortment to open aflgre—iuclli-.
r y* ding Thirty Calks of NAILS. This invoice will be fold"
entire on Vefy advantageous terms
* u ® September ao. d
aal , - _| t j - -I—|—^
THIS DAT PUBLISHED,
£ By J. OH.MROD, No. 41, Cheinut ftr««t,
■ (Price IB I*3 Cents)
£ The President's Address
t [ c To the People of the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring Itom public life
at the expiration of the present cor.&tutional term of
Cl prtfidrticy.
1; SvpUmbur ftp. A
hamuei Rjchardet,
be T? ESPECTFULLY informs tlje Gentlemen
<v Merchants, that he his this day opened the CITY
"■ TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia;
fc _ The Subfeription Room will be furnilhed witi all the
dally papers pyfcljflifd in Philadelphia, New-Yoxk, Eof
he ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com- *
;t} tnercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
, and noiii permitted to be taken away on any account. ,
id Tea,' Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, lee Creams, shd a variety '
of of French Liquors; together with the usUal refrefhrnettts,
Ci jviil at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
of Ae choice# of Wines, Spirituous Liquer*. and the most
• approved Malt Liquors fronjLondon and other breweries. 1
[s The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest -I
' produfiions of theSeafon. c
Large and /mail Parties, or fiugle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation i>
te£«larh' kept for eonvenieicj, the BiUof tare to be had
t) at the bar. , ;
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, asd
the utmost attention paid to c|eanlinefs, and every other
requiute. ' 4
0" S Richardet will be happy to receive, and
e etecute the commands of Ms Friends, and the Public at -
hrge ;a"d with gratitude for their favours, he pledges 1
r. that nothing on his part (hall be wanting to pre- 4
icg" Wor a cd° naBC W "' th WhW> h " b€fin so d'lwguiih- "
Philadelphia, April 19. Wvf £
Treasury of the United States." "
VTOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or hr
*r \ I* 7 C Creditors of the Umtsd States, for any fuma ? c
of ths . undid Debt, «r Stack, iiiring a frtfint inttrtfi of fix
P*r centum per annum. JJ J jj
, '. ft \ P urfH ,ff 'PW Adi of Cosgrcf, paired on the
aSth day of April, 1796, int.tied an ail in addition to an "
intlt " led 'An making further provision for the in
support Of public credit, and for the redemption of the so
public debt, the laid licbt or fiock will be reimiurfed and ci
in manner following, to wit. « First, by dividends
« l°Jf ° a l daj " ° f -nd Seweri
•< r» T j year ' and from the >' car onethou/aud
„ r j" , , re<l j" 1 ' 1 , Dine ty-fev<.n, to the year one thou
-I'■ in 6! f *■ "S h Ken incluCye, at the rate of
' " rcondK o ul^^ r .f' ntU v mUP ° ntha "pital. "
„ by dividends to be r.iade o» the last day of
c.. C T f;° r 'V 'Tj y elr ."»d liom the yea/one
thousand seven hundred and Dmrty-feven, to the year ■«
« eight hundred and seventeen inclusive at' A
r . ate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
« y dividend to be ma !e on the last tV
'■ J m year one t!» nfand bun- "
dred and eighteen, of such lum, as will be U Cn ade t0
C eft^U f
mentol the pen nanent rule of reimburliment above
icubed, it become neceflarv to vary .u
powers of attorney for receiving dividend ur®
■ creditors will therefore observe that f« ' P" b '*c
is eftablilhed for aU powers of «tornl. u T'" 6 <bfm
*•« <"><
KNOW ALL MSN J!r THES£ PXMSENTS ii„
of
y ""iftituU and afpoint
' 7' it" my "" n "' * r,ccim m <t'7jdcrJ"Z{)!b tl
OTjbtl, he payable moron,v i 0 law. on ft. (h-rc A.r u ! '
. injr, yaam f, n tbt If'
book? of the or the Onmt«'fr r gu
where the Uock ,7 L °" 5 ' *
mencement and expiration of time for which A« ™ ""f
attorney is to coatinoe) rvM p* mr a l k „, P ° Wer of de
ttzzur ***> s
In I lave hereunto set my Hand and Seal tie
Sealed and Delivered
in prefenc^of,
• *,*
rs rsi? '"•» •'■«" <r«~,. <,
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
V J, tfeofifr of the United Stair,.
v W it I j
yo,goo Pieces Nankeens.
, . Of the bcfi q-.ality and en reaftnabh terms '
[t FOR SALE BY
jar; Philip Nicklin y Co.
rfcd >6- dtf
larf For Sale, —r—
■tbtr A rWftory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnui
between Front and Second ftraeta. in winVi
any e^rt - James Calbraith & Co. have for many years p n j
but now c '°) carr ' e< * on bo'inefn. • » *
ieli- Poffeflion will be given one month, or sooner
the For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
I. HECTOR CALBRAITH
Aprfl ai.
~~ Treasury Department,
uate September 28, 1796.
N° T . IC ! 15 \ Creb l & Vai ' that P ro P osal» wiH l,e r-.
. ■»->, celvcd at t ' lc office of the Secretary of the Tieafu ■■t
four ontil the expiration of the firft day of Marchi it
*73. suing for thefupply of all rations which
tor the use of the United States, from the fird J-<v e '
lene, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, r-,,,8 inh
days intlufivj, at the places and within the diftrid* h,r«.
after aaent.or.wi, vte. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
. que n C: a£ Sanduflc y Lake, and on Sandufky
See. Riv»r; at Detroit J at Michiiimackinac; at Fort-Frank
!' n ' a ' ? >ltt * , . u s£ h >at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton;
(1 — * . rt ,_ St - Ciair • at Fort-Jcfferfon ;at Grenvill;; at
Picqoc rown and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Pefpnce oh the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
Steuben ; at FortMaffac ; nt any place fiom Fort Maiac
to the south boundary of the United States on the river *
Miflift|>pi; at Fort Knox jat Ouiatajion.
it fu».plies (hall be required for any ports or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies lhall be for-
J milled at prices proportioned to those to be paid a; the
lib-, ,P oUs bclo , re recite < 1 > or as maybe hereafter agreed on
old" .. w | ec ' l the Un'ted States and the Contraaor.
Ihe rations to be fupplicd are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, vi 2.
One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork cr bacon.
Halt a gill of rum, brand* pt whiflcer.
One qoart and hails a pint of fait.'*
SS Two quarts of Vinegar, ( ,
Two pounds of Soap, r r* r hundred ration!
One pound of Caiidlcj, J
If V. Th V"!, itm ' " e Vbe foamed ih such quantities, is that '
of there ihall at,all times during the said term, be fufficie.it
for the eonfumption of the troops nt Michilimackinac, De
tr°'t ' Nu g ira > and Ofwegb, for the term of fa month, in
advance, and at each of the otlier polls, for the term of
at lean thrte months m advance, in good aad wholesome
rn the fame stall be required. It is to be un
ddrflood that the Contraaor isto be at the exjeenee and
he 1 ° f fuppiit, to the troops at each post, and
that all lofies sustained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by Bi#an s of the troops of the United States, Aallhepaid
>f- V J 5 r of the "title* captured or destroyed, on
r < thc dcpoiiti«ns of two orihore persons of creditable cha
" ruficrs, and the certificate of a commiflioncd officer as
- curtaining tlie ciraimftsnce* of the loft, and the amount
ol the ai tick* for wlikh compensation fhali be cUimed
/ OLIVER WOLCOTT,
1L n Secretary of the Trearnry.
J Lottery
S. faifinsfijcthoufand fix hundred and faty-feve*
ft J- dollars and fifty cents, by a dedua.'on of fifteen pef
cent from the prjzes, aad net two blanks to a pri« j. vii
>0 1 Priie ot jooo dollars it dollars jooa
it 1 IPOO xooo
i* * * joo
id i 109 ' rocs
~- ; -Fsw ico# ■
d 99 jo ' *
■r 200 »5 . jock,
io °° r 10
d J Lalt drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, jooo
it — : ____
:» »33® Prizes. ~ ..
- 4018 Blanks. 44,45
- 4. » ■ :JS
I-
63J0 Tickets at Seven Dollars ejith, 44 , 45 »
. ®y °' d f r of the Direaors of the Society for eftaWifli*
mg OfefijlManufaaßres, the fuperMitendauta of the Pat
enon l.ottery have rcqucfted the Managers to offer the
r twrogcung Sohcrae to the public, <mdiiave dfreaed there
a to refund the money t* those persons who have purchased
k ! u 'hf ,ori ®?f Lottery, or oxchacge the tickets for ticket* '
in this Lottery.
e H" ,ottsr T ' liß a^ua "y commenced drawing, and will
a continue uhtil finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prize*
a ma>' be seen at the oflicc ol William Blackburn, No. 64
e fonth Second street, who will give information where titk
i ets may b» procured.
s Dated this 17th day of Tune, 1705.
7- N- CUM MING, •)
i JACOB R. HARDENBERGSMu\*gir*.
JONATHAN RHBA,- S
f dtf eo
f Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
t \y iIEREA S the State of Maryland has authorifei
» ▼ the underwritten, lo raise twenty-fu theufand,
two hundred, and fifty for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through thc City of Wajhiugton, frosi th f»".
tomacto theEaftern Dranch Haruour.
Thc following is ;he SCHEME o£ No. /.
Priie of 3M>,000 dollars, 10,000
f * ditto IP,OOO 10,000
7 lafl drawn ">
Tickets, each f J' ooo 3J. 000
. 6 ditto 1,000 6,C00
XO ditto 400 4,000
, *0 ditto IQO 9,000
-5 5 d '"o SQ »,75©
J7jq ditto it, 69,008
, To be raised for th* Canal, ' i6,ijo
jßjo Prizes, 175,000
ii&jo Blanks, not twotoaprir*/
' 17500 rickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
$y The Commissioners hav* taken the Securities ft
quired by the aforefaid a& for the panaual payment of
' the prizes. «
1 / draw ' n £ tln» Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which, timely
r notice will be given.
Such prizes as wot demanded!, fir months after th.
* is finilliad, fliall be considered as rcljnquifted for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed ) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, ofX)
LEWIS PEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of WatbiDgiod, Feb. 11. '* J
; PRINTED, BY JOHN FENN 0»
-j-No. 119 —
CHESHWT-STRSET.
(Price Eight Collari per Annum.}