*. • I .
#a ?ette of the Unites States, Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Number 1236.] THURSDAT EVENING, AUGUST 25, 3796. X,
UNITED STATES, 7 „
Pennsylvania District, " "
IN pursuance of a Writ to me dire&ed from the Honour
* able Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the Dill rid
Court of the United States for the Pennsylvania Diftri<9,
Will be exposed to Public Sale,
At the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe, in the City of Philadel
phia, on Mofiday, the ajfchday of August, iaftant, it II
o'clock at noon,
The SLOOP called the
Jgggfr Rebecca,
With all and lingular her tackle, appa
rel und Furniture, as the fame now are ; the said sloop
havice been condemned, to pay Mariners' wages, &c.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
Marfhal'B Office, 19th August, 1796.
"This Day commenced Landing,
At 1\ ifflins .wharf, the aargO of the Bfig Lucy and Sloop
St. Jago, from St. J ago de Cuba—confiding of
White and Brown Box SUGAR.
MOLASSES, of an excellent quality.
COFFEE.
HIDES and HONEY. Also,
For Sale or Charter.
The brig LUCY,
A flout, strong vessel, will tarry a
ftjy JTx. bout I soo,barrels, and may go to
, «. s e a with a very small enpuife.
The above will be fold, for calh or approved notes.
Samuel Emery,
No. 64, south Second-street.
July 17, 1796. dtf.
For Sale or Charter,
B a S T O N,
BURTHEN about 2000 Bbls. of ficrur—ihe may be sent
to feaat a small expeuce, her fails and rigging being'in
very good order—apply to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April 39, _§
For Sale or Charter,
THE FAST-SAILING SHIP
JE&fsJ LIGHT-HORSE,
LYING at Mess. J. & R Wain's wharf,
two hundred • d seventy tons burthen, a flout, flreng
feflTel, and well feund. For tepms apply t0
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Aug. 14 —
For Sale,
Or for Charter to the Weil-Indies,
*«E SHIP
dMSt CER AS,
Philadelphia Built,
0"l^ Live Oak «nd Red Cedar< burthen about 3500 bar
rels,.now discharging at Latimer's wharf. 1 his ves
sel is in excellent 1 ~ ■ -.-]! m.; will .
rough examination, ar.dasfoon as discharged flfili be rea
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to
John Vauchan.
juy .8 -• ' 1.
At South-street wharf,
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft.
byfnow Hope, from Jamaica, and sloop Sally,
from Port-au-Prince,
300 Hhds. COFFEE,
70 Hhds. SUGAR.
/life, the cargo of the Su edifh brig Gtjftaf /Molphe,
capt. Ramfre, from Gibraltar,
ifl and 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
Hazlc Nuts in sacks
St. Übes SALT, fer sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
jj—* For Charter,
}rt~- The said brig
}Jp|Sk Gustaf Adolphe,
£ vtfilA Swede, with a Msditerranean pass,
2 -zwiZe £S- a vcr y fj„ e veflji, about 100 tons bur
then. Aug- 18/ }»wrt»w -
For Sale,
| y- i -r-aa The SLOOP
Friendship,
T>URT:LEN 300 Barrels of »
. bufhjls Coal, an excellent frame,
LiVtOak and Cedar, and well found with cables, aschors
&c. fit for sea—now lying it Almond-street wharf, 1 ho
mas Penrofe's. The terms w.ll be made reasonable.
Apply to the Owner, No 31a south Front-street, next
door to Jonathan Penrofe, F-fq- *ug. 19 :">4 ,
To be fold,
On Twelve Months Credit,
If applied for immediately,
One Hundred Ihouland Dollars,
And one hundred and aghty thousand acres of good
L * N D t
In the slate of Virginia Apply to the Printer.
Aug. 19 i- •
FO* SALE,
A Cemplet Font of Brevier,
ENtirely new , and ye unopened. The weight of this
font is about 3IZ&. It is from the Founder of
Wiifon & Sons, Ola'fgov, and will be fold at cost &. charges.
Also for Sale, a ]iaijof Super Royal Chafes.
Fnquire at the Oitc of the Gazette of the United
Stat 110 Chefnut-freet. Aug. 19 §4^
CABLE S,
From I/to 9 i inches, for sale by
'Jeremiah Warder,
{ulyJI | No 11 norlh Third-street.
~ "A^ook-Keeper,
OR Clerk's plac is wanted by a person properly quali
fied, and w ofe charaflcr will be found'untxception -
able. Apply s o ne I'rinter.
Aug. 11
/» Elephant.
Piblo is iriformed that thisanimal will lfave Plii
-1 on the FIRST of September inilead of the
*6th *ti7 "vvkicK time the Proprietor will continue to cx-
Kibit' W i* "fuali in- High-ftrcet near T«r.th-iUcet.
Au?J» 3
Wm. HOLDERNESSE, ,
A*b. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
the East Indies, a well feleftcd aflortrtent of Silk
Merct.y, Lineu Drapery and Haberdaftiery Goods j which
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms ;
Amongst which are,
Some fine India muftins embroidered <rtth gold and ftlver
Superfine Book, Jaconct, aud Mulitiul ditto
Do ..'o do Handkerchiefs
Some elltra black taftettss,lKUftringsand colored Perfiaas
Bandano Handltcrchi'fs
Look and (hort Nankeens
English Mantuas of the firft quality
Gamaflc table linen and nankins, very fine-
Silk Hosiery, an elegant affortmcnt
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do: and da cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irilh Linens, do. &c. &c. Jure 14 $
For Sale,
A Three flory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second flrtets, in which
Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for min> years (and
now do) carried oh business.
PofieQion will be given in One month, or sooner.
Forterms apply to V/ILLIAM BELL, crl
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April 11. §
~FO~RSALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 yeats old,
ifi pipes and hogsheads
Claret, genuine old, in cafe!
Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Baflcet Salt, in hogfhearls #
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Ear Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, Gernianartd Rufiia, ifl barrels
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolia canvas,
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
July *9 §
ELEPHANT.
This sfnimal it to he seen in High-Street, bttkueen
the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street.
HE will positively leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep
tember, for Baltimore, in his way to Charlellon,
where he will win'er.
ADMIITANCE Half a Dollar—quartet Of a Dollar
for Children.
The PANORAMA, or the VIEW «f the CITIES of
LONDON and WESTMINSTER,
Is to be <JpeH the loth of September, and the sub
. je.S will then be remoted to Baltimore with the ELE
PHANT.
ADMITTANCE for the FANOR.AMA,
Oue quarter of a Dollar.
August 3. ... JL-
Tc be fold by public sale,
ON Wednefjay, the 7th day of September next, en
the premises in Mourtt-Holty,Burlington cocnty, by
the SubfcriijEf,
The Divelling-Houfe and Lot
Uavinn- Ween in p>ir4 occupied as a ft pre
for years pad, and ii! ftapdlol bulinc-l's,to
gether with the store-house, stable and buildfags thereoii
ereAed, having two large cellars under then*. Also, the
ftitfp goods and household furniture. A clear title will be
given to the purchaser on payment of the money or fufr,
ficient bond therefor, an£ poffefFion of the premises will
bre given in the said month of September.
The sale is to continue 'till the whole is of.
Mount Holly having become rh« County Town, makes
this property more valuable than heretofore. The condi
tions made known at the time,and place of sale, by
PETER SHIRAS. '
N. B. All perfon^indebted to thefubfcriber,are requeft
to discharge the fame immediately, as he intends soon
to remove out of this state. Any perfen having a just de
mand again (I the fubferiber, is reqtiefted to produce the
fame for iettlement. is w
Mount Holly, August 16, 1796,
Wants Employment,
IN 3 genteel family, refidenl in town or country, a
French lady lately arrived in this city. She has re
ceived a good education and can be well recommend
ed. She wilhts to undertake the tuition of children,
and will teich them to read, write, and speak the
French language, in a fliort time, by principles simple,
but very intelligible. She will also inftruift them in
history, mythologie, &c. and will be careful in paying
ftiitfl attention to their morals ; tier terms will be very
moderate. Apply at No. 15, Lombard-Street, PhiU*
, ladelphia.
August »o. ' lot d.
French Goods.
Received by {he Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-de-
Grace,
10 Trunks "» Ladies* SHOES of all colors forts and fizts
X Cafe j
I Ditto white and coloredSilfc STOCKINGS
I Ditto Fine LAWN
I Ditto befl fine CAMBRIC
I Ditto Ladies' best shammy and Grenoble Gloves
For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
Aug. 14 *>_
George Dobson,
'TJEGS leave to inform the Store-Kceptu in Town sod
11 Country, that he ha» removed from Market-Street to
N°* 25, south Third-street,
where he is opening a Large and Elegant Affortmcnt of the
undermentioned articles—viz.
Superfine London Cloths and Kerfeymetef,
Yorklbiie feeond Do. Do.
Kiaftic do. do.
Mix'd and Blue Coatings
'Flannrlls, &c.
Mancht (tcr Printed Callicoei,
.London Chintz ditto,
Blue and ditto Furnituies,
India ditto.
Long Cloths, Coffaes, Baftas, Eattillasic 1 Conjevreths,
4-4 g-8 5-4 & 6-4 Superfine fndia Boek Muilins,
4-4 and g-8 India Book Handketchicfs,
4-4 and g-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 &6-4 plain do. Miiflins,
4-4 & 6-4 Britilh Jaconets,
6-4 Britilh Checks and Stripes,
4-4 India do. do. do.
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, Ac.
A large affottment of figur'd and plain Muflinets,
Quillings, Dimities, and Stuped Nankeens,
Fancy Waiflcoatings, .
Ginghams of the firft Quality, fubjefl to Drawback, ,
India Nankeens,
Men's White and col«ured Silk Hockmgi.
May 9 Uweoti
'7 J? i ?
Just Arrived,
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, matter from Li- J f
vefpool, V
Bnfhelj SALT ;
100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; and
An Aflbrtnient of SHIP CHANDLERY ;
FOR SALE
On board, at Pint-llreet wharf. Apply to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April 39. § ..
Landing,
From on board the Schooner Expedition,
St. Croix Rum&Sugar,
For Sale by F. COPPINGER,
Aug. 11 f> 111 South Front-ftreet\
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
c
Notice is hereby Given, si
THAT agtecably to an aft of Congrefa of the United
Slates of America, paired at Philadelphia, lh£ aßth day
of Mav, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey
ance of persons, and repealing the former aft* for that pur
pose.—That there (hall be levied, collc&td and paid, upon
all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which Ihtll be
kept by or foi* any person, for his or h«r own use, or to let
Out to hire, or soT the conveying of paffengeri, the several du-
ties and rate* following, to wit.
( For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every pofl Chariot, 12 dolK
% upon every Post Chaise, 12 doJs. hi
upon every Phaeton, with or wilhoat top, $ doll
uponeVety Coachee, $ dols.
Upon other Carriages, having panne l work, above,
with blinds, gliffes or curtains, 9 dols.
upon four wheel carriages, having Trained posts and
topi with steel springs, 6 doi« t
( upon foCr wheel top Carriages, with wood*® or iron
springs or jacks, 3 dols.
Upon curricles with tops, 3 dols.
upon chaises with tops, 3 dols. Cl
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols. a
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriagei, 3 dob.
upon two wheel carriage*, with Reel or iron springs, '
3 do!%
For and upon all other two wheel cariiages, a dols. c
upon every four wheel carriage, having fraSned posts n
' *ad tops, and rettiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols. a
The Coll-ftors of the Revenue of the firft survey of the 0
Diftrift of Pennsylvania, Will attend daily, until the 30th day v
of September next s , for the purpose of receiving the duties on a
Carnages, at No. 117, in Race or SalTaffai Rreet, in the City t
of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Efq in the h
County of Montgomery ; and at the hcule of Abraham Du- jj
bois, Esq. in the County of Hucks; of which>all persons pof • j,
(elTed of iuch Carriages are desired to take notiee. p
Notice is also given, n
TO all retail dealers in Wines, aQd foreign distilled fpiri-
tuous liquors, that licences -will be granted to them ; one li a
cence for carrying on the business of retailing of Wines, in a 1 ;
lcfs quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one
licence for carrying od the bufincis of retailing Spirituous li- li
quofs in lelsqjantlties than so gallons, at the fame time and t.
at the fame p wee;, by the officers legally authorized to grant i]
Tuck licences. g
WILLIAM NICHOLS, r
lnfpeftor of the Revenue of the firft,funrey n
— -ef the M l , «niifjptSE*tXLi7 - —
Ofhct of ) 3©
Philadelphia, «ift July, 1796. )
' TAKE NOTICE,
THAT application will be made for the renewal, of
the following certificates, ilTueifby Joseph Nourfe,
Regifttr of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Grii
• wold, Esq. of Norwich, Conntilicut—
1 certificate, fix percent domeltic flock, No. 13,907
—dated ths !7thDecember, 1795, bearing intcreft from I
the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 6j-ioo dol-
I ditto, three per cent, doineftic stock, No. 10,68 a
—dated December 16, 1795, bearing interest from the
firft dayof January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dollars.
I ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,l66l—dated the 17th
December, 1795, bearing interest from the firft Janu
ary, 1801, for 798 83-100 dollars.
Said certificates are have been loft or
flolen in this citvfome time in December or Januazy
last.
JOSEPH THOMAS,
No. 59, North Front-street.
, Philadelphia,' July 11, 1796. d6w.
. . • j
, Philadelphia, Weft-Che/ler, Strajbiirgh,
1 Lancatler, York and Frederick-tewn
S 1 A G E S.
nPHE proprieters of the above Stages, return their bell I
L thanks to their friends and the public ih general, for
the encouragement received in this line of business, anS beg I
leave to inform the public, that they arc determined to run
their stages through from Philadelphia to Lancaster in
one day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July instant, "
in the following manfter,—via. A Stage will set out on
that day at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the house of
George Weed, Market-street, Philadelphis, and run by
the way of Wcftcncftcr and Strafburgh, 3rrive in Laricaf- "
tcr the fame evening, on Friday morning run to Wright's
ferry and exchange paficngers with the York and Fredej
ick-town ftagc, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat
urday, and on Monday morning following, at 4 o'clock,
said stage willfet out from the said George Weed's, Phila
delphia, and arrive at Lancaster the fame evening, on
Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out from the house
of Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia
the lame evening, and will commence again on Thursday
' morning following, and continue every week—The price
1 for each passenger from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three •
dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three quar- '
: tcis, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like sums for
IJO weight baggage, with the usual allowance of 14 lb.
gratis to eachpaffenger, and 5 pence a mi'e for all way
passengers. .30—54*
John Reilly,
George Weed.
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of the (hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal, t
CONSISTING OF
A Large and general afTortment of Bengal and Madras t
CO 1 TON and SILK GOODS. \
AMONG WHICH ARE J
A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins, ;
Doreas, Aifo,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In bones and bags—ar.d BLACK ;
For 3al» by <
Willings y Francis,
No. JI Pecn Street.
June 2 , j
"
■ — -v... -, .. 1 I 'I >1 fS»«l *■ L II jl M
New-England RUM in Hhds.
COUNTRY GIN in barrels.
JUNIPER BERRIES in l ifts,
SPERMACETI, )
COMMON WHALE, and S OIL.
TANNERS )
SPERMACETI CANDLES,
Tallow Ditto, Mould and Dipt
White SOAP, in Boxes
Best Boftor. BEEF, in barrels and hilf barrels
CODFISH, in hfcds,
Best Eojion MACK.REL, in barrels, and
A few choice fmoaked SALMON, For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY &C'o.
Also, a small invoice of well jflorted
INDIA GOODS,
i JUST ARRIVED.
Aug. 43 $10
FOR SALE,
COFFEE, in hhds. bbls.{& bags^
COTTON, of Demerara, and > entitled to drawback
SOAL-LEATHER )
Also,
BOSTON BEEF, and Mould and Dipt CANDLES.
Apply to ISAAC HARVEY, Jun.
No. $ south Water-street.
8 fno. 20. $3W
INFORMATION
IS given daily of the drawing of tbc WASHINGTON
LOTTERY, atthe Office
No. J47 Chef nut jreet,
between Fourth and Fifth ftreots. Also, where Tickets
taay yet be hid. Aug. 15. co
The Thirteenth day's drawing it arrived.
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(Tlx* iAtc residence vt Owwpol Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOT ©f GROUND thcrcuato belonging,
the weft fide of Third-street, near Un'on-ftreet
containing in front 32 feet, and in depth ICO feet, to an
alley leading into Union-ftrcet. The house is 3 a feet front
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
large, commodious, and completely finilhtd; the two fir It.
stories are each 13 feet high; there are 20 mahogany
doors in the house ; a geometrical staircase, with nlshoga
ny rails and a good sky-light. The kitchen is in the cell- ■
ar, which is fpaciou6 andconvehient, and finilhed with an
oven, ftew-holcs and pantries, a servants' hall and large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an
area in which there is a pump. The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat three-story
brick house, on the north fide of Union-street, contain
ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; the lower part of which
is at present occupied as a compting-houfe, and the Upper
part divided into well-finilhed large chambers. This house
may at a small exgenfe be converted into a convenient
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the front
and back havfc Venetian wir.dow-Ihutters. Adjeimngthe
last houfc, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are created
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very good coach J
house and stables finifhed equal (or nearly so) with any in
the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
in depth 011 the well fide of said alley 52 feet. There are
good cellars unde. the whole of the buildings, and a wine
room over part of the stable, with a hay-loft over the re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
' ".•< — hDWARD BONSaLL & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Dotk-iireei. between Walnut & Pear
co . , lireets.
6th month 24th, 1796.
n r ANTE D,
An APPRENTICE to the Printing Bufmefs.
Enquire at this Office. yiug. 19
Landing
From on beard the Nancy, William Belcher, mas
ter, from Bourdeaux, a cargo, confuting of—
360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET,'
2*2 Cases of 24 bottles each, Claret,
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS,
For Sale by
F. Coppingei.
M- 2 3' dtf.
In the Press,
Andfpctdily will be publijhed, hy W. Young, Mills
& Son, Corner of Second and Chefnut-Jlreet*,
An Apology for the Bible,
In a series of letters aJdreffed to Thomas Paine, author
of a hook entitled The Age of P eafon, part the fccond,
being an investigation of true and fabulous t»eo!ozr
By HICHAHD WATSON, D. D. F. 1< S.
Lord Bishop of Llandafl, and Regiu* PrefeiTor of Divin
ity in the University of Cambridge.
Aug. 23.
WANTED,
A STORE and Cellar or Compting house and Cellar,
for the Wholefaile and Dry Good business. Enquire
at No. I2J Arch-street."
For Sale at the ab»ve place,
500 Boxes Window Glass, 8 by 10, 7 bf 9, &c.
500 Cream Cheeses in the best order, imported from
Holland, and entitled to drawback. Enquire of
Peter Borger,
Aug. 16 2aw3w
For sale by the fublcribers,
IN PENN-STREET,
quarter Chests freih Hyson Tea; .
Iso ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing finall tea setts of 44
pieces;
400 pieces Bandanees.
Willings Francis.
Tannarv 10 ■ 3taw.
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination apd r gifternjg, for
tbf City of Washington, No. <1, and.Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes'exchanged fop-uadrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New- 1
Port LonJ,-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber folirits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills »f Exchange of Notes, Hotiies, Lands,
&c. or to obtain theney on deposit of property.
IVm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia. »&; s ;9<. taw»
OF
Foreign Intelligence.
Reclined by'the Jhip Light,Horfc, from Brijltil.
LONDON, Juno 7—23.
Alliteration.—A company of comedians, giving
a ftiort hiflory of the tingedy of Louis XVI. and,
fpeakingof that monarch, describe him as having
Mien " a fa*age~faerifice to the sanguinary decrees
of a fct of Democratic regicides." This is very lit
tle inferior to that celebrated theatrical fcho/ium on
a Roman History, which invited the ladies
and gentlemen of a village in Cornwall, to " feaft.
their eyes and ear 6 with a gran J performance, which
would exhibit the mod diabolical and damnable de
signs, which, directed by dauntless dch-inoe, delu
ged with dellruQion the devoted domair.s of a def
perat« dictator."
LAW REPORT.
BVCHAN V. SWAINJON.
This was an attion brought by Dr. Buchan to
recover damages against Mr. Swainfon, Proprietor
of Velno's Vegetable Syrup.
Mr. Erfkine, Counsel for the Plaintiff, ftafed
that his Client having, in a book which he publish
ed, made some unfavourable observations upon the
vegetable syrup, Mr. Swainfon infeited an adver
tisement in a morning paper, refle&ing very severe
ly upon Dr. Buchan. Mr. Erfkine said, he was
not inflrudled by his client to make any attack up
on Mr. Swainfon, or to decry the virtues of his
medicine ; but he conceived that Dr. B. had a
right, in a fair disquisition on a medical fubjeft, to
give an opinion upon that, or any other medicine.
He (hea called a witness to prove the publicati
on of the advertisement by the defendant.
After which, Mr. Mingay made a very ingeni
ous speech for the defendant.—He contended that
Dr. Buchan had no right to complain ,of this as- '
fault upon his character, because it appeared that
he had given the firft blow ;he began the attack by '
abuiing ihc defentlanr'r TireStclne, the property of >
wbichfhe had purchased at a great expence, and ■
consequently was extremely anxious, to protest it. 1
Mr. Mingay said, he had a number of witnesses in '
his brief, who, from experience, could prove the <
efficacy of this syrup in a certain cafe ; but he 1
thought it would not be quite proper to call them.
Lord Kenyon made fpvcral observations upon the
ease—said that he belived many of these medicines 1
were efficacious, but might be produ&ive of great ;
saifchief, by btiog taken without proper advice. f
The Jury, which was a special one, withdrew for t
a quarte- of an hoOr; after which they brought in a c
verdidt for the plaintiff—Damages 1001. c
B
£7be following y tho' not of a very recent date, diftlo- 1
fes some interejiing p'aritcular su
FRANCKFORT, June 5. - i
1 returned ycfterday from Baumholder, which was
then the head-quatters of the Imperial and Royal c
atmy. 1 have seen a good Seal, but "have heard r
more; io the course of this letter I hope to be able w
to prove both these assertions. . 11
The troops ih geneial appeared animated with' c<
the mod fanguineexpc<3ation of success ; they jorut ai
«d for an engagement, and promised to rout the n
enemy, wherever they should find them. The ar
mistice has done wonders for the allied army the
men look well; and being refrefhed, and much bet- if
terclothed than usual, their appearanee isconfider- f<
ablyin favour of the cause for which they are so tl
eager to aft. l( is greatly to be lamented, however , w
that the Austrian Officers are tired of the war ; b
and that idea has, in too frequent instances, fnp- e'
pressed every sentiment of loyalty and of rational ft
patriotism. This may appear a paradox to those o
who areaccumftomed to hear the Austrian officers ai
spoken of with enthusiastic commendation ; but It
their difaffe&ion i* as plain a matter of fad, as it is P
a real fu'ojeS of regret. The soldiers know and g
speak of it ; but they are resolved to do their duty, si
in defiance of the bad example which too many of
their superiors think proper to'give them. There
ar«,of course, fevtrral honourable exceptions. 7
Lift Sunday, the 29th ult. the whole French ft
line fired a grand feu d; joye, as an act of tfiankfgiv- R
iiig for their unparalelled success in Italy. General V
Jourdan had previously informed his Royal High-,
liefs the Archduke of his intentions, left any alarm si
flioiild be caused, by the firing, in the Allied army, w
The 3"! ft, at three quarters after twelve, the 1 r<
French partially attacked the out-pofls* and took a
few prisoners of-Latour's dragoons. They attcmp- u
ted to make themfelvcs mafterjfc>f Kirn, which du- E
ring the cessation of hostilities was considered, on ti
both fides, as a neutral village ; but they were de- t<
seated by M. General Schellenber, after a smart
contest. The Saxons, in that affair, as in all others,
behaved well, and took about 50 prisoners, h
It was*remarked, rather judiciously, as being fin. I
gular, that the Archduke, who had put art end to C
the armifticc, should have allowed his outposts to r<
be attacked, asit was pretty generally expeftcd that tl
the Allies would have commenced the hostilities, a;
their previous conduit appearing to have been an rr
earnest of such intentions.
The Archduke, who had advanced very far, fc
thought fit to retire to Meffenheim, where head ti
quarters are to be this evening ; this falling off ex- I*
cites no small degree of astonishment ; as the allies tl
retreat, the French march on ; and it is extremely nn
pjobable that General Jourdan will have his'head- H
quarters to-day at Baumholder. It was theopini- al
on of the Allied-Generals that the enemy would tc
have immediately crossed the Mofella at the com- 01
sneiicem-ent of hostilities; but they reckoned with k<
out their holl.
The tft of June the Prince of Wurtemberg was la
attacked, forced by the French to pass the gi
Sieg with some Iqfs ; the day following, howefcr, be
the Prince had the advantage, drove the enemy, cr
and took his former position. The Republicans la
are not in force at Deux-Ponts but their Camp H
nrar S.heweigen is very formidable.
The affairs in Italy continue to wear a cloudy 2fl
afpeft ; theeotmy on the 30th ult. had not entered ve
the Pope's dnmtnions ; but, at fcveral points, they m;
had marched into the Venetian territory, which in no
frawiton of Uesty irritated, beyocd the th;
Senate and the people. The French had reached
as far as Brescia, thirty-eight leagues from the ca
pita! sfthe Republic. The 28th, General 13cau
F lieu was within eight leagues of Manrya, which has
plenty of provifioni, and has 800 oxen within its
walls. The Tyrolian.i are all volunteering in de
fence of whatever they hold most dear and sacred ; 1
ing in proportion as they are equipped th'ey join the ar
nd, my. It seems to be the indention of the French to <
ing march to lnfpruck and Muniih ; but there is a
-ees moral certainty that they will be too vigotoufly
lit- opposed, to be able to effedt their all destroying pur
on pole. The Tyroleans are excellent soldiers, and go c
lies to battle with more pleasure than, several other rta
-ajl t ions proceed to a feait. 1
ich Count Metternich is on his way to the Court of J
de- London, on matters of the htgheft moment; mer-
:lu- chants here, of the firft refpeftability, go so far as t
lef- to assert thai they have certain proofs that his mis- 1
lion has a pacificatory tendency ; and what goes
still more to fandiion their belief is, that Heid-
Quarters are expefled to be at Mentz, to-morrow si
evening. A Courier is arrived from Vienna, with g
to orders to the Afchduke to hold himlelf on the de- h
tor fen five ! You will of course ask why his Royal si
Highsefs interrupted the armiftlce ?—My answer si
ed is Nefcio. Why, having put an end to the armif. 0
fh- tice, did the French show themselves so eager to a
he recommence hostilities ?—Nefcio again. Why, as- v
er- ter havingadvanced above sixty miles, did the Prince tl
re- conceive the idea of returning to his former pofiti- tl
r as 011 ?—Nefcio ! Some fay, that want of provisions E
p. is the cause ; others assign other reasons ; —The -I
lis womb of time, however, is pregnant with grand,
a perhaps with events,
to ■
ie, of Government with the Ar.- K
ti. my ot the Rhine, and Moselle to the Executive k
Directory. 1i
ii- " Head.Q_narters at Artzheim, June 9.
at " The Austrian army, which had fp bravely le
if. broken the j t flying as fafi. as possible,
a t without firing a shot. Our van-guard pulhed for.
,y ward yesterday as far as Durkhcim, without being P
8 f able to overtake them. Kaiferflautern, Nieulladt,
id and Spikes are occupied iy our troops. The Gt
neral Officers, who were on a reconnoiting party,
in t oo ' l too prisoners, who are all rejoiced at tlieir
ie capture, and prove to what a degree a spirit of de
ie preffion prevails in their army. « haussmann." at
s. BOLOGNA, May 15. " e
ie When it was known here that the French had
:s " arrived in the Duchy of Modena, the Senate, in
lt virtue ot powers inherent in it, but which had by ,
gradual encroachments beenalmoft extinguished by 1
, r the Court of Rome, met to deliberate upon the
a dangers with which the citv was threatened. It
did not wait for orders from Rome, and the Cardi
nal Legate did not protest agatnft its proceedings. ; $
1- The Senate resolved to demand a suspension of arms,
until the Holy Father had an oppoitunity of treat. , W
ing for peace. Hie result is not yet known. 1
s Meanwhile measures are taking to prepare for dif
il charging a military contribution ; the city of Fe
d rjana has collected money for the fame purpose, of |J t
e which the Clergy are to pay three-fifth#. Rotnag- a n
11a is the province wlych will fuffer most by these vv ;
b/ contributions. Specie is there extremely scarce,
- and the Freiick u-t]l »aUc i n payment the aflig- -
e nais of the Holy Father. J
PARIS, Janet 6.
e Peace draws near, in spite of the gold and the s ol
. intrigues of the British Cabinet, in spite of the ef- an
- forts of some of our factious citizens, who, finding
a their account in the war, and the enormous expence th 1
, which it occasions, wife to render it perpetual, and ne
i by that means complet* the general ruin. We have
- every reason to believe, that the Directory will fuf- B
,1 fer no opportunity to escape of meriting the title
e of benefadtors ot Europe, by concluding, as (oon
s as -possible, with all the Continental Powers, at jh.
t least, a peace worthy of the new fortunes of the Gi
s Republic. We will even venture to affirm, that a th<
J general peace will take place on the Continent be- pft
, fore the expiration of a month,
f 29th Prarial (June 17.) or<
e There was a strong report M Manheim on the adi
7th, that orders had arrived from Vienna to desist •
i from all offenfive operations on the left bank of the fed
Rhine, and which had determined the return of Se!
1 Wurmfer to the environs of Manheim. fro
Letters from Badia Hate, that the Corfican in
-1 furgents have jutt obtained poffeflion of Baftia fuc
. where they have made Sir Gilbert Elliot, the Vice- for
e roy, a ptifoner. 1 his news needs confirmation. La
a We are a/fured that Buonaparte has promised to wii
- return to Pans by the way of Vienna, provided the ret
- Lmperor should not conclude a peace. If he con- in.
n tuiuea his route, General Kleber will soon be able we
- to make hands with hira. f er
1 {June 19.) by
' M. de Stael will quit Paris in a few days. He the
had leceived orders from his Court to present to the wi«
•?r Rtha " fcn ' in q ua,l 'ty Swedilh pla
> Charge d Affaires. The Diredojy has refufed to
a receive this new envoy. It i s said on this occasion,
t that the Directory did r.«,t wish to spare Rufffi, the we
, appointment of ner secret agents, by acknowledge- of
1 mg one of her public agents.
, , T f le , ° f S P ai » prohibited, by a royal W
, fcheoule, all the tribunals, even that of the Inonifi- he,
t.on from mo,eft,ng the French-in their worihip. he
' r b l s V k r er '.f ecW > in tl- fime;„fchedule, "a
s that those alone will be acknowledged as French at
f men, who.are recognized by the .mbaffador of the fed
Repubhf. The latter, on his fide, has noticed to oth
- aU the French who reside in Spain, that they are do,
1 to enjoy the privilege granted by the royal frhedule, ' the
- only folong as'they (hall be decorated with the to- an^
- ken ct rreach liberty.
The frigate La Vengeance, belonging to the fire
5 lail division difpatehed from Brest for St. Domin wh
t go, has captured the ship Edgar, from Liverpool, wel
, bound to Africa. 1 his vessel was burnt, and her
, crew put on board the corvette Athalanta. The her
, latter has taken aRd funic the brig indufiry, and the to I
riudfon, C.tpt. Wcbftei, laden with flour. qui
It appears by a letter from Augfburrh of the
2d jiift. that the Gnfons informed the Austrian go- t
vernment t>f the project of the French troops, to bur
march through the Valteline, adding, that it was ami
not ,n_ their power to prevent this march, and that Ru
the said goxcrsmcui auit thcrefpre adept fsch reea - d e
itd 'hires, as.it (hould think to i; i.;»»ale that
ca- p-ojeft. In cenfequence of this Istir.utioA, the
au Austrian troop's, who are arrived in the environs of
has "Infpriick, as well a« the armed inhabitants of Ty
its rol, have received orders to occupy the two passes,
3e- which lead into the Brifgaw, and it is supposed,
d ; that they will be defended with the utrroft vigour,
ar The Minitier of Marine hns officially coiitra
to di&ed the report of a plot having been formed at
i a Toulon, to furifnd.tr that pott to the Englidi.
fly MENTZ, Jane 3.
ir- A courier is said to have arrived, bringing an or
go der io suspend ofFenfive operations.
ia- Within these two days a regiment of carabineers
and four battalions of fufileeis have defiled from
of Manheim, which have returned fom the aimy of
•r- Wurmfcr to mareh to-the Brifgaw, where they air
cs to replace an equal number of troops departed for
if- Tyrol.
es MANHEIM, June 4..
d- This morning the regiment of Huflars of Wtirtfi
iw fer repaffed the Rhine, and tWkihe route to Biif
th gaw. We are likswife alTured, that other troops
!e- have repafled the Rhine latt night, rod taken the
•al fame route. This movement is, it is said, the re
er fult of orders arrived from Vienna, that the troops
if. of the Bifgaw may move to Tyrol) menaced by the
to army of Genera! Buonaparte. On the other hand,
if. we are affjred, that peace is concluded on, at least,
ce that the preliminaries are signed—What confirms
;i- this opinion is, the number of couriers arrived at
ns Bade, at Franckfott, and the head quarters of the
ie imperial army.
il, June 7.
More than io,ooo men of the Imperial army on
the Rhine are gone, by foiled marches, to Ty
x- 101, to dispute the entrance of. the French. It 16
, c kid,, that these troops will be replaced by an equal
number of men, who are on their march from Gal
lieia.—lt is added, that twelve battalion* for the
v reinforcement of the army, have departed from
the Bannat, Sclavonia, Croatia and Hungary.
r . SCHWALBACH, June 9.
rr Particular detail of the battles of the sth, 6th, and
between the Imperial and French Armies of
the Sarnbrc and Meufe, and ths Rhine and Mo
, file.
■' r BATTLE OF ALTENKIRCHEN.
On the sth, at break of day, General Collaud
attacked the entrenched camp of the Auftrians,
near Altenkirchen. After an engagement of four
j hours, as bloody as obstinate, victory was uncertain.
n General Collaud, equally irritated at the iofs of
his troops and the'reliftance of the enemy, ordered
the charge to be beaten. The grenadiers then ad-
vanced with fixed bayonett, and the camp was
forced.
' I'" frurts of this vifloi.y arej 3,700 prisoners,
5 pair of colours, 9 pieces of cannon,, a great num- 1
!( °' waggons, and two general officers, one of 1
' whom is dangerously wounded. The number of
killed ii estimated at 1,500 men on both fides. i
: BATTLE NEAR BIRCHEN FEL AND OBER- 1
_ STEIN.
" It was General Merceau's division that was or
dered to-attack the left wing of the Auftrians on
all points. After fsveral bloody engagements, in
w.n'ch both parties loil a great number of men, tlie
' AgftrHßH frU TjiUc French advanced "by
• forced marches. In the interval, General Cham,
pionnet attacked the Auftrians at Stromberg and its
environs, with so much impetuosity, that they were
; forced to fly to Bingen, whither he follovved'them,
and took a position on the heights.
- At r rhl famc time .General Bernadetta drove
- thtm frem the Nahe, whifh river his army pasTed
near bingen, and took an advantageous position. ,
- Another engagement happened 011 tht'^lari
- BATTLES OF NIKDEIi-L AHNSTEIN, POSTEN
■ .. . , n I>ORF AN ®. HOCHEIM.
1 Notwithstanding the advantageous position of
t jhe Auftiians at tfcefd different points, Generals
: Gremer and Bonnard attacked and surrounded
1 them, ind made 5,000 prifonets, besides taking 23
■ pieces of cannon, and a number of waggons.
On the afternoon of the sth, General Kleber ,
ordered the fortrefs of Ehrenbreitfteiu to be block
aded.
1 Vft !° :IOU, : n « da V fev eral strong columns pas
■ fed the Lahn; the firft are now at Naftelin and
: frolTm te " 3UCS fr ° m Fr » ntkf °", a o d eleven ,
trom iVlayencc. '
' CliarleS ' the rapid
, i-rcffes of GencraltKhrber in the environs of the
orellsot WcftsrwalJ, and the other iide of ths
Lahn, and wiihrng to oppose the French armies
1 with more couhderable forces, caused his army t0
: yetue from the Hundfruck, and defile by Mayence
. niorder to protest the right bark of the Rhine, ai ;
• well a 5 the Mayn, in concert with-XJentfal Wurm
ler ; but General Jourdan defeated tlffe <ief lt .-as
by pa fling the Rhine with his principal forces in' a
: the environs of Andernach, Coblentz, and N,eu
; p,' a e c d e ; His head-quarters argat th« lail mentioned
a. Tir OLD BAILEY.
' Ann Woodley and her fetvant Anr. fohnfon
• Harding! eallng ' en guinoas, the property' J
Mr Harding deposed that he picked v p Ann -
Wood ey , at r)rury.lane playhouse, and handed' "
r . .o a coach, and when he paid the link-b.y U
he felt his purse in his pocket ; i, contained ten gui- hi
at the W3S ° Ut of the coach "
fed nurf- he mis
led his purs Ihe lady tried to make off at the D ,
' fier door, but the priforter catching her, (he fell
down: her maid, Ann Johnson. ran to her, and «
and l,e?m g d°T f^ am " i "K bctwee " '"iftref,
purff with j 1 'uippofed the maid received the th
(J r' , th v^' llc h (he ran into the house : the mi- in
t" °?"; d b ' ,
«ell enough where it went F ,
her m"idt Chman fU '° rC P 0 niiftrelsand G
quitted. Delearche d.~'lhe pnfone.s were ac- th
STOCKHOLM, May ,3.
Wrgh 'S"'T Ved hereyd^'da >' frJm st - P«erf ~
de Roltiiftein "•
bit disarm the fleet of galleys, Which wai begun lo he
the done this morning. . Government has alio cjufeii
iof it to be official!)' announced at the exchange that
fy- themeichfots might cwtinue their con>merc« with'.-
Fes, out the lead danger. Notwithstanding all this, the
ed, great fleet is to be put in,ci)iidit;on for failing
nir. the 24th of this month.
CONSTANTINOPLE, May 1.
The Ruffian Envoy has complained to the R e is
Effenc'i, relative to tic Polish Count Qginfki,' *j I(J
or is fuffercd to re fide in the capital, and of fereral 1,.
ther Pulifh Nobles, supported by the Turks in Mol
davta. The Envoy affined the Turkilh mini Her,
ni that the Emprefb could not icmain indifferent to
the protection granted to so many Polish emigrant*
" in the Turfcifti Empire.
j- o) . The Reis Effendi arifwered. tfjat the name of E
migrant was unknown in Turkey, and that the
Porte had always had Grangers, and especially Poles
in its fer'vice ; but that h.e would neierthelefs repre
•j- sent the affair te the Qrand Seignior.
From Vienna it is teported, that in consequence
I 5 or the assemblage of a large body of troops between
_ Bialow and Bender, the palfage oyer the Dniellcr
into Moldavia is stopped—and from Bosnia, it is
P' said that war is a&ualiy declaied. Fresh difference*
j are mentioned to have arisen between our court and
If' theDi
van, and it it urged, that in consequence of
the prevalence ofthe French inteteft withthe Grand
' Seignior, we must cither become a party in the
waT ' or cammit ourselves with Russia, whom we
are bsund by treaty to fnrni(h vyith 30,900 men, if
attacked by the. r Belides the supplies r«-
3i) ct ' vec ' at Conft.antinople from the French, the Em
peror of Morcccp has sent a valt quantity of popper
and falt-petie to the ai fenal at Constantinople, and
I and particular inftrudtions have been given tothejeS
1 ven military clafTes i:i the Turkish armies to hold
i( , themtelves in readiness to a£k against the enemies of
the Prophet. It is even affirmed, that with refpeit
to Auftiia, a proportion, toguarantee our fortreiTes
and possessions on the Frontiers, has been refufed.
preparations ii: Turkey "are fomewhat - a&J; '
ted, but apparently for no other reason, but be-
J ' cause the object of them is obtained. As-for the
2 pretence that the vatt forces colleftad at Adrianople
»nd other places ar6 to ail against the rebels; every
j one who recolle&s the proceedings of the Ottoman
Power in 1787, may obfe'rve tljar the fame excuses
were then made ufc of, till the Potte unexpectedly
declared war against jhe Ruffians, and imprisoned
f their ambassador.
d lrem-the St.ir.
I- Buonaparte, Ccmmandct in Chief of the French Army
is cf Italy, to the People 0/ the u'lanefi.
Tht Nobles, the Priests, the Agents of Austria
s, mtfleaa the 1 nhabitants cvf thele beautiful countries;
i. tiie fc.ench army, alike generous and powerful, will
>f treat the peaceable and tranquil inhabitants with
>f fraternity : they will be terrible as the fire from
heaven, to rebels, and to the villages which afford
them prote&ion.
Art. I. In consequence, the Commander in Chief
declares ail those villages in a (fate of Rebellion,
n which have not conformed to the law of the 6th
n Prairial. The generals (hall fend against those
e ♦'hV
y fe't fire to tFem, and put to death all who shall be
found in arms. All the pri t £U and N.ibles who
s shall befwitnd in the tebellious communes Hull
e be arretted as hoffages and fentr to France.
i> Art. 11. All the villages in Which the alarm bell
shall be rung, {hall be immediately reduced to
fl allies ;I he grncl* Is are refponftblc for the exe«
d cution of this order. /
Art. 111. Ihe villages in the territory of which
any Fienchmen shall be afTaffiuated, (hall pay a
fine of one third of the contribution which they
p are accustomed to pay so tjie Arch Jake yi one
year, unless they point out, arreil, and deliver up
j the afTaflin to the army.
Art. IV. Everyman found with a gun and ammu
nition shall be immediately shot, by order of the
General of the billrift..
r Art. V. Every country honfe in which arms shall
be found concealed, shall pay a third of "us rent,
by way of fine t every house in whieh a gun shall
' be found fliall be byrnt, unless the landlord shall
declare to whom it belongs.
Art. VI. All noble or opulent persons, who (hall
I be convidied of hiving excited the people to re
volt, either by dismissing their feivants, or,by cen
; Turing the French, shall be arretted as hostages,'
" and conveyed to Francs ; and half theirproperty
shall be confifcated.
BUONAPARTE.
) *
i . w.
A oiu Publijh>r,g by the Printer,
1 3> Lsetitia Court, delivering to Subscribers,
1 ar.d to be had at the different Book-Stores in this City,
Berriman 5c Go's
5 CHEAP AND ELEG/NT EDITION OF
The HOLT BIBLE.
i Containing the OH and Ndw
. - Teitameots and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes and re
erenccs. An Index ;or an accoint of the raoft remarkable
palfugcsin the old and new Teftancnr, pointing to the places
w ne»cintney happened, snd to tit places of scripture where*
| tn they are recorded.—A Table cf Time.—Tables of scrip
ture mealures, weights and coins : with an appendix,contain
ingthe method of calculating its measures ©f surfacii
hitherto wanting in Treaties on this A Table of Ojfica
, and Conditions of men.
CONDITIONS
1. The size of this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO,
printed on a beautiful new type, aol good pjpef* made par*
I ticulatlylor it, It will be ptiDliftieajn Numbers, notto ex
ceed 30, one of which will be deliveed w«ekly to fuhlc >i -
ers, at a quarter of a dollar. Those Abfcribers who prefer
r u CC J l^e complete, will be att nded to by figr.ifying
the fame on any of the fubfeription pa>crs in rhe Bookltoret
in this city.
2* There willbc ap advance in the rice* on fubferibing
after the ftrft of August next.
3 - In the courfeof the Work willle givea an elegant
wontifpiece—From an Engraving of th celebrated artirt,
utlc NION.
Bs*RiMAN & Co. gratefullyacknowltjgc the verv liberal
encouragement they havemet with; and h*/ereafonto believe
. thc cxec ution of iheir edition will ariycr everv expec
tation, and fpea£ its own praifc. \
May fi6
—^*wepM*
A Handsome, well-broke
SADDLE lIORSE,
FotScile, enquire at thc Conefturo Stable's, t. c ownft
having no use j'or hits.Philadelphia*
THURSDAY EVENING. August i 5.
From the New-York ARGUS.
By the RhodeTflaad Packets we learn, that 2
French corvette arrived at Newport about the mid
dle of lafl week, direfi from Guadaloupe, and in
forms, that twelve or fourteen French 50 gun ;
ships and frigates had arrived there tvith a British J
50 gun fiiip, a piize. The corvettc was chafed
"into Newport by a British frigate. ,
A Correspondent observes that the " rxtrafl of ■
a letter from an Eng/i/h Gentleman, to his friend in .
this city, dated June 16." Publilhed in Mr. Brown's !
paper of Tuesday, affords, like many others, a flri- ,
iirig specimen of the fabricating epistolary talents j
of the writer.
This extract which fills a column, contains not \
onefentence of liws, except the following, for the
truth of which, further extra&s will be neccfTary as ,
vouchers. " The opptjition made to the Treaty and (
particularly the motien of Mr. M' CLy, one of your ,
Representatives, has not been dijerviceable to you in ,
the minds of thinking people here." .'4/ n. ;
<
STOCKS.
Six per Cent. - - .... . jy-j,
Three per Cent.
4| per Cent. - - none for sale. . . \ A f URprice '
5| per Cent. i 4,6 * <
Deferred Six per Cent. - - . t
BANK United States, - . . 22 pr. cent.
Psnnlylvania, ... .
■ North \meiica, ... .46
tnfurance Comp. North-America, 40 per' Cent. aeh 1
~ 1 1 Pennsylvania, j per cent.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE. I
On London, days, per £.100 fieri. par. ]
at 60 days, par to 1621-2
■ — at 90' days, 161 a 162 1-2
w 60 days, per guilder, 41
9c days, 40
communication.
The French are exercising the rightsof conquefl
lin Italy—at the fame time they are fraternizing the 1
people—The poor are to be diflrained upon as lit- c
tie as pvfiiblc in collecting the rcquifitiops, dill
they are not ttj be exempted. The requisitions
have been more than the whole circulating medium t
of the conquered ■ eountries could balance; hence 1
they have heretofore remitted the deficiencies in f
numerons in (lances. The rich and middling eiaffes v
will f»el that they are dripped—t|ie poor, that v
their pittance is diminished—Fraternization, on a
such conditions, will appear a dear bargain. t
Is it jft human nature to be so imposed upon, .as r
'■to believe, that a people can be tbus conquered t
into -liberty ?
The transfer of the riches of the Greeian States C
to Rome, and malting that proud city the " mu-~ v
SEt/M Of the world," was compensated by de- -t
claring the Grecian Republics free—What fort of fc
compensation that was, ftibfequent fa&s demon c
ft •'ate—Drfpondencv, misery ar.d -flavtry cafued— i
; and more than two thousand years have born tefti
mony to the degradation of thofi once free dates
' ' ' 'r-
Frsm the Farmers VTeekly Museum. t
THE reader will recollect, that he was~laft I
week requeued to refrefh himfelf beneath the cool- n
ing shade of a maple : Presuming that the frequent a
showers of the season have, ere this, obliged bim' p
to leave'this rural arbor, if his patience is not
exhauded, the hermit would be happy in his com-, I
pany, while rifiting some of his rudick acquain- d
tance. f,
Devoting my .morning rambles to the contem- g
plation of what my profefTor elegantly termed p
M the great volume of nature," in the afternoon I b
quit the mountains, rills, and flowers, and droll to d
some farm house, to amuse myfelf with the artless t
tales of its tenants. The good landlady, in the f
• neat attire that designates the golden days of good 0
Queen Btfs, compares the present times with the. u
ancient, that licenfcd the/persecution of witches f
and quakers, and blefled her flats for permitting ji
her to fee these better Jays i next succeeds a lec- 8
lure on the blue laws of Connecticut, plentifully f
mixed wi h digrefljon in praise of the piety of the h
Coventry parfgn and the faint like conduct of liis ii
parifhieners : how puddings and homefpuiP have t
now given place to bohea and muslin, which she c
judly fear* is injurioOS'to the morals and prosperity p
of opv country. Her white headed husband hitches
his armed ehair nigher the table, and tells some t
Pequod anecdotes ; thii leads him to give the hiflo
ry of a battle in the Indian war, when he bore a n
dangerous share ( and saved his Colonel from a a
fcalping-knife, by leaping a log fence and grasping- c
t the favagc ; he tells me when General Diefkau was h
wounded, and many feats ef Johnson's bravery, o
Here the old foldrer forgets his age, and takes a
flride across the room, to (hew the fiimnefs with
which he led his company to battle on the day that I
Baum was defeated. I covered, fays he, the right
Hank M Stark's division, and my orderly ferjesnt
was the firft who killed a Heflian with a bayonet. £
He then takes his crutc'rf, and marks out the en
trenchments pn the floor—brings up the feveralde- u
tachments to the bread work, and at lad coues the
whole of the enemy. He then proceeds to tell w
the rapid progress of this new country, since his ,e
remembrance r thirty years ago, fays he, where a
you now fee that mceting-houfe, I was obliged to
go twenty rods on my knees to shoot a deer. In n
that corn field' my Tyger treed a Bear and two t
cubs; and, in that upper pasture flood a house (
from which the Indians flole two children. But,
fays he, I have lived to fee the Indians extirpated-,
1 have fought for my country's freedom, and live fl
in its perfedlion,by my own labor. 1 have brought it
my wild farm to easy cultivation ; I have five sons, fl
who are good hufbandi, and now nothing remains
for me but to learn to'die.—After toasting Wash a
ington with a pint of metheglin, I leave the good u
old man and his family to enjoy a good night's n
tcCtf while my own (lumbers are abundantly foften u
ed by the rational amufemert I received at his g
>oufc. T»e HERMIT. |o
From tie Fahmeh's Weekly Muslim*
A CHARACTER.
TIM TRIANGLE is a whimfieal fellow, in
my opinion. An txcellent mathematician, a per
fe£l Webber* in geometry. Tim meafurcs the
parallax of Venus, folrc3 adfefted equations, or
proje£ls a solar eclipse on his thumb naii, with
2 microfcopick accuracy. But Tim is not fatisfied
with such trivial attainments. Law, politics, re
r!" ligion, men and manners, are ind'feriminately fub
jefted to Tim's calculations. He can explain the
mechanism of the Federal Syflem, point out the
parts of the political machine, which are exposed
to the moli violent friction, or give dire&ions to a
G illatin for 1 ' flopping the wheels of government."
1 Tim underfltands the balance of power in Europe,
n and has drawn many a diagram to elucidate its
s principles. He has made great improvements up- 1
'• on Montesquieu's theory, relative to the physical
18 influence of climate, in flamping the charaftc-r of
a nation. Forty-threr degr«(« and thirty-three
'' minutes, fays Tim, is the latitude of perfeflion.-—
( * Rife to the pole, or recede to tFic equator, from
l ® this parallel, and hutnin nature dwindles in arithme
" tical progreflion. Borrowing a hint from the iflge-
[ r .nious Dpdlor Rush, he has conflru£led a scale, by
which the latitude of any place given, after miking
a fort of tare and tiett allowance for adventitious
circumftanees, he afcertaint the character of its
inhabitants. Tim illuflrates Lavater's phyfiogno
ray by conick fe&ions., and can guage the c<\pa
:e cit y a statesmen, or a barrel of porter, with
equal facility. He never ventures to decide upon i
the charafler of his mod intimate acquintance, till
he has taken the angle of incidence, which his
tiofc forms with the less prominent parts of his
visage.
Tim wants a wife, and threatens to lay siege to
'a young lady in the neighborhood, and to proceed
according to <he principles of ta£licks, till her
ladyfliip capitulates. PICTOR.
* An eminent ProfefTor in Harvard University.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
NEW-YORK, Augufl 24.
[I The fo'Jowing was handed yeflerday for pub
e lication, by Capt. Place, of the Two Friends, 15
;- days frorfl St. Marks :
!1 Off St. Marks, July 10, 1796.
s My veflel was drove out in distress about 8 in
a the evening by a gale of wind—so light of ballad
e 1 was forced to cut the cable to keep the veflel
ii from upsetting. At day light, flood for the port
s we failed from—We discovered a boat rowing to
t wards us with 16 oars, which we supposed to be
:> a l'rench pirate : they fttipped us of every thing
they could, and said all the Americans were
s rogues, and they were determined to plunder all
3 they fell in with. Paul R. Place.
Augufl 11. Spoke the brig Lucy, Captain
s Crawford, belonging 10 Col. Smith of Baltimere,
- who was on shore at Atwrtiod's K,ey. 1 offered
- him all the afiiftance in my power, and proposed
f bringing his cargo to New-York—but this he de
clined, and abused me because I would not convey
- it to Crooked-Island.
KINGSTON, (jam.) July 22.
The master of the Salter, from Teneriffe, men
tions, that a Dutch squadron of 7 fail of ihe line,
weakly manned, left the Canaries on the 17th of
I May, the day before which they had bctJn recop
• noitcred by an English 74: on the 20th and 2id
t a heavy cannonading was heaid, and it was fup
r posed two fleets had met.
t His majedy's ship Alfred, of 74 guns, Capt.
1 Drury, arrived cn Saturday at Port-Reyal, in 17
- days from Martinique. In the Moiia pafTage (he
fell in with and capti:f>d the French national sri
• gate La Renemmee, of 44 guns : the frigate fuf
i petling her to be an Eall-Indiaman with .troops,
I bore down upon her, and' endeavored to escape on
j discovering the miflak'e, but a broad fide which the
s Alfred poured into her, made her strike. The
: frigate is an excellent sailer, only two years
3 old ; she had failed from Cape-Francois in compa
c uy with another frigate called La Medufe, and had
s fallen ii with five English tranfpoits, with 100'
; jnen 011 board each, coming from Martinique to
- (he Mole, and captured the whole of them, the
f frigate with difficulty escaped.—.She continued on
e her cruize, and the other convoyed the tranfpoits
s into Cape-Francois and was again to join her on
e the cruize. On board the frigate captured is a '
e corifiderable quantity of baggage, of which they I
f plundered the officers belonging to the troops,
s Lieut. Richards, id lieutenant of the Alfred,
commands La Renommee. '
The captain of La Renommee French Frigate
mentions, that finee file has been built, which is
about two ysars, and during which time he has
commanded her, he has captured l2ovefTels, but
has to this moment reaped no benefit from the sale :
of bis prizes.
NORFOLK, Augufl 18.
IV: have extracted the following from Antigua papers,
received by the funnel, Capt. Whitbee.
St. JOHN'S (ANTIGUA) July 25th, 1796.
Two Dutch 50 gun ships and three frigates, we
underfland are arrived at Demarara.
A severe cannonading was heard to the fotith.
ward of this Island for feverjl hours on Thursday
.evening lad, but 1 the cause of it we have not been
able to learn.
Admiral"Bligh, it is said, may be expedled every
moment .at Barbados, with the remainder of ihe |
troops, ptomifed for the reduction of the Island of j.
Guadaloupe.
July 26.
The gallant Capt. Vaughan of his Majedy's
sloop of war Alarm we are sorry t<» learn, has lately j
lod hi's life at sea, by being washed overboard in a
florin. . i
s A report prevails that his ship L'Aim- \
able lias lecently had an engagement off Gaudaloupe
1 with a French veflel of superior force ; the engage
s ment, it is said, commenced in the evening, and
was renewed again the next morning, when an En.
3 glifh sloop of war heaving in fight the enemy made
off.
The f< liooncr Louisa Bridger arrived this noon
from Martinique, she brings, an account that the
l Beaulieu Frigate was believed there to have taken
- a French Frigate and to have brought her to this
: Island—She likewise brings intelligence of the ar
t rival of the firlt .June packet at Dominica.
1
1 BALTIMORE, August 23.
MefTrs. Edwards & Smyth,
AS the contributors to the relief of fueh per- (
: son» as by the Jate calamity of fire at Charleston,
: were deprived of other meansVjf I'upport may wisH
1 to know the amount of fubferiptions in Baltimore,
' you will please publish the following ftateraerit—
' . Dolls. Cts.
, First uiftriS produced 523 85
i Second do. 40
•' Third do. 52S' 87
1 i-oarth do. 1204 41
f Fifth dp. j, QO
Sixth do. 250 o
Seventh do, 2o? g*
Fell's Point * ' til 12
4579 73
As soon as 4,000 dollars was colledkd, (viz. ott
23d July) thst iu&i was forwarded to John Mat
thews, Esq. Chairman of the Committee of Charles
ton, appointed to aflc contributions for those fuf
ferers, and on the 6th August the balance of 579
dolls, and 73 cents, was also forwarded to the fame
gentleman to be distributed by the committee,
amongst the fufferers, in such manner astheyfhould
deem molt advisable.
LONDON, June 14.
WESTMINSTER ELECTION.
Yesterday the candidates by agreement began the
Poll at an hour earlier than usual, in order that it
might finally terminate at three o'clock, at which
time the numbers wens dccUicU as follows :
For Mr. For, '5160
Admiral Gardner, 48*4
Home Tooke, 2819
The high bailif then returned the right honorable
Charles James Fox, and viceadmiral Sir Alen Card
ner as duly eledted, at which moment a loud crv
or joy and exultation was set up all round the hutt
ings.
I .
Tranjlated for tht Daily rfdvertifcr.
OFFICIAL PAPERS.
Note of Count Ofterraan, Minister of Russia, to
Monf. de Mordwinoff, Ruffian Miniftei at Ve
nice.
Her Majesty the Empress having ehofen your
Excellency, to felicitate in her name, his mod Chii
ftian majesty, upon his coming to the throne, lam
charged, Sii, to transmit to you the letter of cre
dence, which will serve you as an introdu&ion to
that prince, and of which I add a copy for your
information.
Having repaired thither afer his reception at
Verona, you will present it to the king of France
in an audience which you will-request for that pur
pose, accompanying, ii with an address analogous to
its contents. After you have passed feme days at
Verona, you will take leave of his most Cbriftian
Majesty to return to your post, and you will not fail
in due season to render an account to her Imperial
Majesty, of the manner.in which you shall execute
that commiffien. The expences which shall thereby
accrue to your Excellency,' will be put upon the
lift of extraordinary expenccs, and will be reim
burfed toyotl.
I have the honor to be, &c.
(Signed) The Count OSTERM AN.
Lettci in I.ouis the XVllltb's own hand writing,
to Monsieur Mordwinoff, Minister of Russia, at
Vcniise.
Verona, April 20.
1 could not, Sir, deposit in better hands than
yours, the letter of attorney which I havediredted
the Count to transmit to you with
i this letter. I have aheady entrusted to you what
1 had most precious at Venice, the portrait of the
king my brother, I join to it the armour of Hen
ry the IVth—and by. this doable deposit, I hard
. the happiness to prove at once my friendihip for
your aijgyft sovereign and my cfteem for you. Jdo
i not doubt but that her Majesty the Empref* will
1 an order, if you should consider yourfelf
1- obliged to aflc it, to aft in consequence of my letter
, of attorney. 1 anticipate it on my fide from what
! has palled and,from what I have done in confe
tjueni-e of it. I have received the letter you hate
, directed to be fertt to me. and I have answered by
the courier whicii I have difpatchcd. Informed,
Sir, as I am of your sentiments and of your gene
-1 rous care for my faithful fubjeds, I can beg you
i with confidence to charge yourfelf, in opposition to
the of Venice, with those whom I
(hall leave behind me in the territory of the Re
public. Yob wilt readily suppose that I would re
commend to you, more particularly than any other,
the Count d'Entraiguee.
Be persuaded, Sir, of my high esteem, &c.
LOKIS.
Letter of Attorney.
Louis, by the grace of God, King of France
: and Navarre, to Mons. the Count Alexander de
Mordwinoff, Privy Counsellor of her Majesty the
. Emprefj of all the Ruffias, her Minister Pienipo
tentiaiy at the Republic of Venice, and' Knight of
tire order of Saint Wolodomir, Greeting : The
.Senate of Venice having fignified to us in an of
fenfive manner, that the asylum which we had
■ : tnought tit to chjofc for ourjeltes was from that
moment at an end, arid that it was expedted we
| wouid without any delay depart from Verona, we
. have answered in the following terms, tj the Mar
s quis Carlotti, charged diredtly to execute that
oommiffion to us—" I will g (l> but I demand two
1 indifpenftfcle conditions—thefirft, that they present
| to me the golden book in which my family is in
scribed, that I may erase therefrom my name—
secondly, that they restore to me the armour which
the friendlhip of my Grandfather, Henry IVth,
[ can fed to be prcfented to the Rcpuhltf. ».
1 he jtift impatience which we have to depart
hom the Venetian States, deteimines us to give
you, by tbefs presents, power to demand in out
behalf, ijje fulfilment of two eopjufons, ,to crafe
the name of our family from the goiden book, and
to receive the armour of our Grandfather Henry
the lVth of glorinua memory. Done at Verona,
under our hand and our common seal, 20th April,
in the year of our Lord, 1796, and of our reiga
the fi'r.lt,
1 I IHU'll 111 lIIWI I■II I mr—IMIMIIIIIIJII I ■ lIIMI
GAZETTE OF THE VKITEDSTATES MARINE LIST.
PHILADELPHIA, Auptft t 5 .
ARRIVED.
Ship Fabius, Corran, Havannah t 2
Scr. Minerva, Cjtter, do. 11
Betsey, Fletcher, North Carolina 12
Sloop Olive Branch, [arvis, do. 6
Elizabeth, Garriion, Virginia O.
Arrivals at Baltimore—August 22.
Yesterday arrived fht'p Fame, George Cunning
ham, in 62 days from Lisbon.
August 15, lat. 38, 37, long. 69, 41, fpokethe
(hip Harriott, Moore, of Baltimore, from Phila
delphia, bound to London, out 3 days, who sup»
plied Capt. C. with some provisions; Hndfam?day,
ipoke the /hip Columbus, from Philadelphia, for
London, out 4 days.
Arrivals at Norfolk —Augujl 18.
Btig Janet, Whidbie, .Antigua
Fayorite, Williams, St. Bartholomews
Abigail, Elliott, do.
Schooner Mercury, Tiltoti, uo.
Bttfey, Dalton. Cape Nichola-Mole
Ne-n>-Terl, Augult
Capt. Attwood, of the brig George, arrived
yesterday from, St. Mark's, spoke, about 12 day*,
ago, the'brig Delight, capt. Toplift, from Jeremie,
bound to Bolton, ia lat. 27, long. 74. About 5
dayi ago, spoke off Cape Hatteras, brig Com
merce, of Wanen, from St. Croix bound to Bal
timore,
The brig Polly, capt. Watfoti, of Philadelphia,
had arrived at .St. Mark's j uIt lilU-hj- in.
wood tailed : She had been taken near Leogane
by a French privatesr i'chooner of 16 guns ; but
the Quebec BtitilTi Frigate falling in with the pri
vateer and prize, the Frenchmen abandoned th«
prize and the Quebec run the privateer on (hore, •
and ferlc the brig into St. Mark's. In confcquencc
of an American boy being left on board the brig
by the Frenchmen, when the Quebec tosk'poffel'-
fion of her, the salvage was f-ved to h~r owners,
and she was delivered up to her Captain.
Wll LI AM HASSELrON.
TTJ" AS csmmitted to the goal of Dauphin county, on
VV the July lad, a lad 'who calls hiinl'elf
William Hassei.ton, aged about 1,3 years, and has red
hair—fays he was an indented apprentice to oiae James
Demster, Weaver, now in Philadelphia, and ha* lived
some time with Peter near New-Holland, Lrjicaf
ter.county ; and'furth'er lays, that his mother lives in
Brandywine-hundred, near Newport. The master or
ownvr of the said boy, is hereby no ified to come and pay
the charges and take him away, otheiwii'e he will be dii
eharged ;iy due course of law. JOHN M'CHESNEY,
Harrifburgh, Augufl 1790. 3t J;>i(or.
TO BE SOLD,
That Neat and Convenient House,
WHEREIN the fohferiber now liven. There are four
rooms on a floor > the house js two ftorjes high,
with a goodgarr«t above : under the whole is #n essweij
ent cellar, with a dry well, in which is 3 convenient
framed chamber for preserving meat, butter, &f. ij) warm
weather. Attached to the house is a Stable for three
horses, hay-los , granary, and carriage-house, a wood
yard paved with stone, and a garden with foil of a fine
quality. An indisputable will be made to the pur
chaser. For farther particulars apply to the fubferiber in
Princeton, or. in her absence to Thomas £>. Johntjii, Esq.
or the rev. Samuel S. Smith.
' ANN WITHERSPOON.
Princeton, >Ag. 14. 2aw
A very valuable Merchant Mill,
A DISTILLERY and BREWERY, and sundry STONE
-QUARRIES'to be let.
I will rent my merchant Mill at the little Falls of Pd
towmac, for any term not iafs than seven, nor more than
eleven years, from the firli day of September next. The
mill-Jjouie is 42 by 40 feet, three ftoriss high, built With
stone, and has in it three pairs of s»ftich Burr Stpnes, two
overshot 18 feet water-wheels, and Evans's machinery
complete, with every other thing proper and necessary for
carrying on the business with dispatch, and at as little ei
penfe as poftible, all in good order.—from the mill to my v
landing on tlie Potomac river, (whtrs craft, of any bur
then may deliver grain and take in flour) it ip about 40
yards, and from thence.by water tn George-Town,and
the City of W.alhingtcH, about 3 miles, and to Alexan
dria about 11 miles. This titration, aided by a fufficient
■ capital, Will command the ptodyce of a very extensive
back country, where large quantities of wheat and other
grain is annually made, the distance to it being from 3
to 10 miles less than to any market town up >11 the navi
gation of the Potowniae. There are on the premises a
large stone Coopers' flop, a stone granary, and a commo
dious miller s houffe. At the landing aforclaid a bridge
is now building over the Potomac, which is in (treat for
wardnefs and probably will be finifiied the etifuing fall.
1 here are also on the premises, a Brewery and Dilrille
ry, built with stone, in them are three Hills, two coppers
or boilers, with every necessary article, all new, aiid in
good order, and l'ufficiently large to on the Brew
ery and Distillery upon a very extensive plai}. This prop- ,
erty I will rent for the fame term of years.
Upon my lafeds adjoining the premises, apd along the
banks of the river, where craft may lead with eafc and dis
patch, is an innaerife quantity of building and lounda
tion-ftones. Four quarritJ are now open, and as many
more may be opened v ith ease: the stone taken from these
quarries is better, and has the preference at this market,
to any other stone brought to it. I will rent these quarries
separately or together as may best suit.
On the topol the hill, and about 200 yards from the
mill, is a stone Dwelling-house, iarg* enough for the ac
commodation of a family: »l!b, a kitchen, dairy, smoke
house, &c. and a garden, ehc'ofed and in cultivation, the
foil of which is equal in goodtwli to any in this state. I
will also rent this property.
Adjoining to the Brewery and Distillery « a Smith't
fliop, in which is a complete set of Blacksmith's t.~o)s.
whieM will also rent, and if agreeable I will hire to the
tenant two negro blacksmiths, one of them is a complete
workman.
HI rent cut the stone quarries, I will fell three crafts,
which were built for the purpcfc of carrying stone : they
will altogether bring upwards of 90 perch. Immediate
poflefiion will be given. For terms apply to the fubferib
er in this town.
The Mill, Brewery and Distillery, with their appurten
ances, will be delivered to the tenant or tenants in good,
repair, and lruift be so returned, at the expiratioir of the
leal'e or leafesL
PHILIP RICHARD FENDALL. •
' Alexandria, Aug. 16—
WASHINGTON LOTfERY.
Fourteenth and Fifteenth Days drawing received at the
Oflice'No. 147, Chefn*t--Street,
Augufl; as. Jt>.FOR SALE, V'
A very Valuable Eft ate, \\
/~IALLED TWITTEN HAM, fityate rath* fc
townlhip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware, '■
i-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the f
Weft-m road: containing 230 acres of excellent land,
! "o[ which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood- P
land, and the reft arable of th« firft quality. There are
the preroifes a good two story brick honfe, with 4 rooms
:i a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well 1
"t excellent water in front; a large frame barn, (labia, r '
• ! other convenient buildings; a smoke-house and (lore,
-ic£-houfe ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
<V He fields are ill in clover, except those immediately
"" ' r W4«gr, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
c w;: rin each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
vent for grazing. &
: 1" ftnation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
1 ' '- ' zt'.oi' of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
s i tv ro the city, it is «rv suitable for a gentleman's
'~<-'.r.tr* feat.
' he foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
- --.fed, and offered for sale br
Mordecai Lewis,
o<sl. 9. eo»J Surviving Executor.
Washington Canal Lottery,
NO. 1..
WHEREAS the State 'of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-Cx thousand.
two: undred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose ' f cutting
a Canal through the City of Waihington, from th Po
ionize to the Eastern Branch Haruour.
The followiog ! is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz --1 Prize of 10,000 dollars, 00,000
1 ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn 7
Tickets, each jf s '°°° - 35.000
6 ditto ' 1,000 6,000
to ditto 40a 4,c00
•20 ditto 100 1,000
'55 50 1,750
J 750 ditto 12 69,00?
To be raised for the Canal, 26,150
5850 Prizss, 175,000
-: —• • •—Pt■ |w 11 ti> ■ r~ ■—
1753° Tickets, atTen Dollars, • 175,000
The Commissioners have uken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a<st for the pssdt&l payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery wfil commence, vithout
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, oTwhich timely
notice will be given.
as are not demafided in fix months after thf
drawing is fimlhed, shall be conSdered as'relinijtiifced for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL-CARROLI, »/D.
LEWIS DEBtOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Walhingtoß, Feb. 11. $
, Lottery
FOR raffing fix thousand fix hundred and fixty-ftvea
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to-a prize, viz.
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
I 1000 lOCO
1 SO3 500
J 200 ' - loco
so 100 icoo
59 30 4950
»co 45 - 5000
loco 10 20,000
5 Last drawn numbers of 100© dollars each, 5000
3332 Prizes. 44,450
4018 Elaoks.
6350 Tijltets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Dire&ors of the Society for eftablifh
ingUfeful Manufactures, the fuperintendants of the P-.t«
erfoo Lottery hive rcquefted the Managers to offer the
foregcing Seheme to'the public, and have dire&ed them
,ta refund the money ta thofif per'fons who have purchased
in the fotmer Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in "this Lottery.
The lottery has adually commenced drawing, snd will
continue until finished. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be feat at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1756.
J. N GUMMING, •)
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, £ Manage.
JONATHAN RHEA, }
ARISTOCRACY,
An EPIC POEM,
In 2 Cantos, njay bt had at B. Davies's Book-Store > No.
68 High-street. Aug. 19 £6t
Lands of the United States
Treaftcry Department, Augujl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN pursuance of an afi'crCongrefs, passed on the 18th
daybt May, 1796, entitled " Am adt providing " Yot
the fa!c of the lands of the United State*, in the Territo
ry north weft of the river Ohio, and above the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the fcSion3 or lots of laud descri
bed >n the annexed fchedule,lyieg in the seven range, of
Uiwr.ffiips, which were furveytd in pursuance of an ordi
nance of Congref*, paffed-en the twentieth day of May,
in the year one thoufind f ven hundred and eighty-five,
v. ill be eipofed forfale at Public vendue, in the town ot
Pittsburgh in Pennfvlvania, or. the t*enty-fourth day of
Octoh .r next, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the firft day ofDecember enfuarg, unless the laid lots shall
be foonet fold, in the manner, and OB the tehns and con
ditions herein after mentioned, to wit t
1 ft. The said fedMons or tots (hall be fold snder rhe di
reitinn ef thcXidveTnor or Secretary of the Western Ter
ritory, ".nd such person as the President of the United
State* inayfpeciaHy appoint soT that purpose.
The said fedions or lots (ball be fold to the hieheft
brt 110 sale can be made for lcffr thau 'wo dollars
•"jr acre 6f the quantity of land Contained in such lot or
ic&ion.
3. The high eft bidder a« before menticoed, must depo
fii at the time «f sale. one twentieth part ef the purc iaie
money, in the hands of fach person as the President of the
United States ftia. l appoint to attend the sales for that pur
]>ofe, which will be forfeited,if a moiety of the sum bid,
ir 'ading the said twentieth part, shall not be paid wittiin
ihiitydays from the time of sale.
4th. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchase money
in the manner before mentioned, the purchaser will be
entitled to one year s credit for the remaoing moiety ;
an« (hall receive from the Governor er Secretary of the
Wcfterti Territory, and the person who ftiall be appointed
by the President of the United States, to dirr'ti the fale»,a
> ri tificite describing the lot or frclion purchased, and de
l larinir the sum paid on account, the balance remaining due,
time when such balance becomes payable, and thai
the whole land therein mentioned, will be forfaited, if the
_?k! belance i« r.<rt th-n paid ; bat if the fai'lj fa'ance "lial)
be duly difcharged,by paying the faree tt» the Treafurcr of
the U»ited States, the purchaser orhisaflignce or otner
legal reprefentativc, Shall be entitled to a patent for the
said bnds, on his producing to the Secretary of State a re
ceipt for such balance endorsed upon the certificate. But
if any purchaser lb all make payment of the whole of the _
purchase money, at the time when the payment of the
firft moiety is directed to bemad*, he w:n be entitled to a
deduction of ten per centum on th.; part for which a ere-
I dit is authorized to be given ; and his patent {hail be iin- y
mediately issued.
Given under my hand at Philadelphia, the day and
year above mentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary »f the Treasury ,
Schedule of feß'imt of town/dps, or fraP.ional' pans
of to-wnjlipt, to he fold at Piltjiirrgi, inpurftar.ee vi
of the 6tb fedion of an aA cf Congress, puffed on 1
the 18th day of May, 1796. 0
>5 - i i
w a 0 -- V ~ r
o . O 2
S ,
g ■» 1 ia -iz: '
ift Range. 6'.hTowj«ihip. 6th Range. , <
ill Townlhip. 89i2 64o.eack iftTovnthip. i
28 |5 65 14 640, ;17 3j ia 1
19 J 5 6 95 17a20 640' each 18 270
30 250 75 25136 640 each 41- 8| 50
34 240 90 BthTou'no.ip. 22 166 40 -
35136 64o|each 3114 64oieich *3 427 <
id Township. iyiio 64oleatb 14 640
19 140 23 6401 27 151 80
20 170 7© 25330 64cjeach ; ;Ba3o 640 each
11 185 33136 64ojtach 33 !58 . '
42 230 icthTowmbip. j^'ajS^cyeich
25 80 112 j64oeich 2d TownsHip-
26127 64c eacTi 5114 54c each I I *26 i~ <
56c 17110:640 caA .. 2 440
19 SSI 60 t3a36j64oleach 3 448 e
3c nthiTowcfhip. 4 456 '' c
JT-jS itqeath 1114 64c each J 4fy t
4thTow'nfh»p. 17120 640 each 4 472 b
19 64 23*36,640 each 7 ,-4C c
Xllt 4thRANGE. B»4«4oieach g
34 44J 34 S a "8j
5 A »lil 15136 64c each J * S6
jthT a« tifnip. 4 4 » 4 ! 0
6 1139 *0 » ?S 6 gco' 5
11 479 30 316 7114 640 each
I? 3 Cv 4 15 / o i7aio64ccach
I$ 638 30 640 each
MS 45= 75 9 A < 4C sth Townlhip.
*4 f «« I IjlfJ '
29 IS4 4 . 1
30 64c ,7 *^< 4oeac i j «
35 3*l to 440 each - S
6aa 3dTownlhtp „
= 1314 64oeich jt / '
ad Range. 17110 64o!each -' 5 . *
ift Townlhip. 13136 640|each ? II4 ' 4 ° ;,C J
28 ,7] 10 sthTow,W ;"?* 4C ; l £
J4 ' 6)56 1114)640]eich JL4 4C ~.
3d Townlhip. t 7 a20|640 e»cl. ' , n , P '
14126 640 each 23336 640 each J 566
28 499 >6 7thTewnJhip., ' 40
19 64c iaa 64c each 3 ,
3*133 64deich si 7 640 eich 4 jBS 60
4thTownfliip. 12113 640 eich {
11 2640 18H9 640 each ■*. .
« 39; 50 25640 I*** J 4O eac^
51 50 30136 6 4 oeich ''»^^ 4C " C k
15 17 SO 9thTownlhip. 13 V5 64 - " £h
■16 259 10 lii4|64cleach T °wnfl»p.
17 514 17120 64ceach ,al 464oeach
18 64c 13136 6 4 3 each I7 "°^=i eac^
19 63.? nth Townlhip. 2S .?i*£ 40
so 584 80 Hl4l64o!each
21 6315 21 <7a20 640eich lal 4 640 each
■22i366401eaeh 23a;6 64oeach 'T 32 ® 640 each
SthTownfhip. r 3 tfcTown(hip. 13^ 640 " ch
5 ">3' ni4 64ceac'ni I3fhT " wn . fc, P-
6 a7 64c each i7d2o64oeach iai 4464cleach
23125 6+: each 13136640 each I ?' 64oleich
.*ach •r» = 23 a 3^^40jeach
3213664 c ach 5^ AN ®®- «5 th Townftip.
7ih Townlhip. I« Townlhip. m 4« 4 o'each
3 (640! 1 174 40 1 7H0'6 4 0 each
SthTownfhip 21 8 ' -5° *3ft^oesch
115 640-eich ** V[l SC ' 7 th rTnGS.
6 440 A ° Township.
71 14 640 cach * /S 30 I 4:10
17a2o l 64?eich | 7 394 10 132 50
i3i3«6 4 oeich 34 . 2dTow»lhip.
fb i 1« m
SSSBS: TV*
13436 64Qleich 3 43 ° 17118 640 esch
r.To,. ; ■<
id Tovrflihip. 6 464 80 1 20 '4' .
tj 6 4 e 7 25® i3«4 64c each
16 6ac 8 618 '~ s } ,
*0 SS7 i° 9»4 64oeich 4 °r h
41 an 64© each 17120 64c each 4 ,
13 609 13 236 64oleach -I,' 4 ]^
640eich, 4th townlhip.
1 ai4|64o|cach " 3< 1 3 ~ 4 cleach
9 IR 60 i7M46 4 o!each « thT °wnlh.p. ,
10 344 l3i36|64o|eacfc
ai 267 6thTown(hip. eich
.1 151 iai 4 ;64cieach
I 54 ao: 50 i7aio64c|e*ch ? ,T/ WI !
15 630 23i3«!64o|eaci . 4C ea "
»6aiß 64oWch BthTownlhip. 7 X 4C 3 ?
19 a." 50 ia,4l64c!each ;23 a 3^40le a ch
10 616 75 I7i-=,64c|eich (lo,hTnv.'n(hip
-11136 640 each, 23i36;6401each ' ,al4
1 4tnTownfhip- iothTownfhip. :i7a2 s , l^ 4P j eac
I 170J iai4i6 4 oleach . 23a3 £! 64c '; a . cil
1 1 544 !7i2c|64o(eacli i*!^ 1 Townlhip.
1 3 23a36<640teach,! lal4 l^' 4 'l eac ['
r 4 450 t2thTown(hip>7«c. 5 4C each
3 '»2 i J , 4 |64cie«l,
6 I7a2c]s4caeac!i | 1 4 , hTnwnfhip.
' 7 563 1 1 al 4j^4 c j far J|
819 64c each !i4thTownlnip. l l ? a 2° each
" 10 54c So i . lii4js4oieach , 13 ® 3^ 6 4 C •
n ' II 319 JO 1712 c 64cleach l6tll Tow"ft'P
liat4 64# eacl 23i36?64cjeacb ; 1 aI 4 pleach
lyzir 64c eich " ,17120 640 each
each} [23136 640 eech
XOTE.
d forl» E T ,Jltl / :CS I ' 2 , n<i , S ln rcrcnl towrfhips be
d fore meiitK>«ed, are ciclufive of the Lots reserved by the
L n ted States and also of those formerly fold—Th- ae
e" seVeral oe fraSionai
i ascertained br aSual fur
• ' MU have
' CH 00 o»haT7i£erfccrtamed than bv colcebtion.
Lands of the United States.
Treasury Department,
Augufi 8, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby given,
IJI pnifnance of an aS of Congress passed »n the 18th
day rf Mav, 1796, entitled " an a& providing " for
the fai of the I.an Is of the Unite.! States, in the territory <
nor't-weilof the river Ohio, addaWi " the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the C&Vter Tow".{hips of land
described in the auntxcd fchrduic, lying in the seven rang
es c! township? v.-hieb were furveveii in purfuar:ce of an
ordinance of Congress, pa (Ted on the twentieth day of
May in the vear ..ne thoufamiTevec hnndred and eighty
fiv<J will be-erf ofcd for sale at PUBLIC VENDUE, at
.he Merchants' Coffee-Houfe in Philadelphia, on the 4th
day of January ceit, and thenceforward from day today,
until the tenth day of February ensuing, unlcfs the said
quarter towr.fhip* (hall be faoner fold, in the manner and
or th« terms and conditions hereinafter mentioned : viz.
ift. The said quarter tawnihips {hall be fold to the
hi»heft bidder, but no sale c*n be made for less than two
dollar;"peracre of thequanti: j of land contained in such
quarter towsihip.
l&. The highefl bidder as before mentioned, must de
poGt a' the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur
chife money, m the hands of the Trcifarerof the United
Sties, which will be forfeited if a moiety of the fun bid,
incltdicgthe said twentieth part, ball notb* j>aid within
(hirt/ days from the time of sale.
3d. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchaft-me
iieyinthe ir.sap.tr befor'mentioned, the purchaier will
be entideSto one year's credit for the remaining moiety ;
snd lhail receive a certificate describing the qearter town
(hip purchased, and declaring the Taai paid on account,
the balance remaiKingdue, the time when such balance
becomes payable, and that tee whole Land therein men*
tior.ed will be "forfeited, if the said balance is not then
paid ; but if the said balance (hall be duty difekarged, by
paying the fame to th£ Trtafurer of the United States, !
th*purchafer or his aUigneeor other legal reprcfentative, i
{hall be entitled ts a patent for the (aid land, on hil pro*
ducicg to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
endorsed upon the certificate But if any p«Tchafer shaH
make payment ef the whoie ef the purcjiafe-tnoney at the
time When the payment of the firil mcinty is directed to
be made, he will be entitled to a deduction of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit it authorised to be
gives ; and his patent shall be immediately iiTucC.
'GIVEN trader my V.ar.J 3; Philadelphia, the <isy
aadyear abovementioced.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury,
SCHE DULE
OF Quarttr-Townfhips to be fold at Philadelphia. :r. p-jr
faar.ee cf the 6th feftion ef an ail of C-cngnfj paiTed on
the iSth day of May, 1796.
Jj .?■
* *■ S «£
•.£.£> X =
t, « -f at
« f i *5
OC 5 o • 0 -
. t_ {*« v few
u« r* *■ V. • ft n
O 0 c 3 .5
«£ " "3 —
£o ~ a
.... . , H
2 Sootli East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120.
North Weft 51*20
" — - iOrfSc
2 J Souvh East jiio
Nonh East 5140
South Welt 5120
North Weft 5120
■ 1 20,480
7 South £sft 5120
North East 1 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
50,480
9 South East Jl2O
North East 1 1 so
South Weft J4 2 j
North Weft yi2o
20.480
H South East 5120
North East e\ 20-
South Well 5120
North Weft 5120
J 20,480
4 4 South Ealf 5120
North East Jl2O , f;
South Weft 5120
• North Weft r 120 T ,
3 1 tl
20,4&0 u
6 South East j 120
Nortn fiaft jj-20 ]
South Weft ri2o I 1
North Weft 5120 ! J
. 2»,480 1
•S South East 5120 c
North East ei2o •
South Well 5j 20 C
North Weft 5,20 ,
«0,48 c 2
10 South East 5120
North East' 5120 '
SonthWeft 5 , 20
North Weft 5120 1
I 10,480
12 South East 5120
North East 5 120
South Weft 5120
North We.si 5 1 20
20,4^0
5 3 Soutii East; 4602
North East 4654
; Soutii Well 5120
Norsk Welt 5120
.Cut- a l *& 6
5 South Er.ft 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 120 •
North Weft 5120
30,450
7 South East 5120 •
North East 5120
Sotlth Weft 5120
North Weft
5 120 I J
— 20.45 C
= < 9 South East 5120
~ North East 5120
South Weft| 5120
e 5120
I
i I 20,48 c
- - a
- i
Q. J
U "5 t
re i
5 .£• * ' - 3
fij <2 « i ?r
---— I fr 1 t I J; - T
• *- *■* I 'J
r ° « < 1 £ »3
o E- r - a ' J
• 25 § : ii
5 ,11 'South Ea:1!5I2o! : ~~
North Eaftjyi2o' j
South Wcfljfi2o .
vVeft - 5t20 !
' 20,480
I 13 :South Ea r ?|ji2o
I .Noith Ejit's:2o |
.South YVefl;s 120,
North Weft,sl2o
6 4 South £3^,4630
North Eaf1 : 4523
South Weftiji 20
1 North Weft'j 120
; 19,490
6 South Eaft|473o •
North Earthly
' South Weft.j 120
' North Weft'sl2o
~ i ' 19,685
: 8 jSouth Eaftji2oi
iNorth Eaft|ci2o
South Weft|5 120
North Weft 5120
, ! 20,480
10 ,'South Ealt juc
.'North Eaft;si2o
;Souih Weftj 120
; jNcrth Weft, 5120
r 1 20,480
: 12 iSonth Eaftsi2o
North Eaftjraa-j" — —— — S .
r South Wcft 5120
North Weft 5 120 i
20,480
14 Sooth Eafljy 12C
North Ezftji2o
South Weft j 120
North Weft 512 c! J
20,480
7 J South Eafi 5120
Noith East j 120
South Well j 120
North Weft 5 (2° j
20,480
5 South Eafi 5 120
North Eafi 5120
South Weft 5 r2fc
North Weft 5120
20,480
J South East 51 20
North East 5 120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5 «2oj I j
■ 20,4.80
; j y South Eailjiso
North East 5120
• South Wefl 5 120 ,'i
North Weft ? 120
-—j 20,480
ti South East 5120!
Noith East 5 120'
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
' 29,480
13 South East y 120!
North Eafi 5 1201
South Wefi 5 12£>!
North Wefl ji2c
20,480
15 South Eafi 5120
North East 5129
! South Weft 5 120
iNorth lyefl 5 I 2 C
1 i — 20,483
NOTF.. 1
THE quantities of Lands in the several townlhips be*
Tore mentioned, are exclifive of the SeSions reserved by
Che Unit-d States. The aggregate quantities in the seve
ral town&ips, have been aioertair.td by -Aaal Curve* : bat
tbe quantities in the quarter tawnlhTps, have beez ns
otharwjfe afccrtaiced than by calculation.
Samuel Richardet,
O informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadeh&a:
The Subfcripcion Room will be forniihed with all the
daily papers publHhcd in Philadelphia, N:\v-York, Bof
'ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mensal cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account-
Tea, Coffee, Srrnpes, Jellies, lee Creams,-and a variety
of Frcnch Liquors; together with the usual refrelhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the thoiccfl of VCine*, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earlieil
produ&ions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or Sngle Gentlemen, may b*
accommodated with Breakfafls, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours m#ll convenient to themfclves—a cold Collation is
Tflgv.larly k«pt for conveniency, the 3 ill of Fare to be had
at tha bar.
The Lbdging Rooms will be completely formfeed, ar -
tfce utmofl attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
Skmvil Ejchardlt will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public it
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfell" that nothing on his part fhali be wanting topre
fcrve that patronage withwiich he has been so d'ftwg l "® 1 *
ingly honored. I
Philadelphia, April 19. c 0
i'o be dilpoi'ed of',
THE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
has between four and five years to serve: She ja
can be recommended for her fobritiy and honesty. l' o '
particulars enquire at No. 132, Chrfiuit-ilrect.
August 3. aawtf. '
—' mijiu-uw rnc_n»j 1 1111
PRINTED BY JOHN FENKO. J
—No. 119—
CHFiSI'T-SItEtT.
f-Prlec E^p v .t Dollars per .4nn*ic.)