tte tEßtteDStates, Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
WEDNESDAT EVENING, SEPTEMBER 14, *79 6 ' P° LVMS
Numbes 1253. J —; — — -
■■ 1 ' <v. rr r% r*~ ar%nr rr T? JT\ f & a T"> T T?
1' - J%J -X
,- ' "
For Norfolk and Baltimore, v |
'T/;? Sloot> hONPAREIL, J q
JO US HAMLYN, Matter,-
V. ill fail in all this week- For freight
kiVIJMjBK and pafoee ; apply te the Capt. on beard,
North Mc of JESSE and ROBERT, A "g"
SSckJaUaKWains wharf, or to the Subferibers,
Who have »oiu landing f rom said Sloop,
A few Hhds. of hi h proof Antigua RUM. u | °
The NONP AREIL is intended as a conftint trader, be
tween i-Vi-nore and Pniladclpnia.'if suitable encourage.?cut SQCC
„ reeled • jrn LLI xo S uroRTH, & SOX. J An;
September 13, 1796. 1
FOR LONDON. 0n bo
'^ ie ea P ,ta ' CERES,
To fail fopn :—For freight or palfage I Apr
- to DAVY, ROBLRTS &Co or _ -r __
John Vaughan,
September ut. Front-flteet. JH
FOR SAL E, N y ;
JCK« The Schooner bA H IC, lotte ' r
One Hundred and twenty tons burthen. £ t p
A new vessel well found, well built, & I
fails extremely fail. For terms apply £
to the rindcr on board, or t0 c, n I rt i
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Tf the above vessel is not fold in a few days, fee will
. take fre ght on very low terms for Bolton. I R
S 'P'- -°- , being
For Sale or Charter,
J into
THE SNOW | corpc
5nR IItEN about 1000 Bhls. of flour—fhe may be Cent I
to sea at" a BFstt explicit, "fariWts Trad rigging being in t
• very good order—apply to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer. j*4
April 3?, I Al
~ FOR SALE, i Er
tfek The {hip STAR, p
John Vanmeman, Master, I
T Y NO at Walnut-ftruet wharf, Philadel-
L phia built, of live oak and cedar, will • '
carry .-.tout V°° barrels, is two years old. and m com
plea* order to
Who have also for sale feid v.ffels cargo—confiding of—
Wine and Porter ' ottles,
Window G ass, 6 by 8 to t6 by 11»
Pipes in boxes
' Earthen-Ware in crates
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, Sec.
Aug. 29
At t-outh-ftreet wharf, Li!
WILL BE LANDEP, Friday, 19th inll August.
by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and flo»p Sally, I f ro
from Port-au-Prince. I
300 Hhds. COFFEE, .v—- I
70 Hhds. SUG V R. I
A Iso, the cargo of the Sweiii/h brig Gufiaf Adolphe, 1
capt. Ramfre, frum Gibraltar, j
. jfl and /,th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds. j
Hazle Nuts in Tack-; j pq
St.Ubes SALT, fsrtyehy rn
PETFR BLItiHT.
For Charter,
v The said brig QC
GusTAF AdOLPHE, i
* SdSf A Swede, with a Msiiiterranean p'afs,
a very fi n e vessel, about too ton bur- «r.
then. Aug .8 ]
For Sale or Charter, *
m £r, THE FAST SAILING SHI? X
LIGHT-HORSE, t0 ;
' LYING at Mess J. &R- Wain's wharf, e j t
two' 1 hundred and feven-y tons burthen, a (lout, strong id
Vessel, and well found. For terms apply to ftc
Joseph Anthony & Co. ™
Sept. x. / 1 ir ca
INDIA SALES. }*
ON ThurUav the lid infl. at 10 o'clock, A. M. wil[ th
be fold ut the stores of WiUings and F«ntis a Urge y:
quantity of INDIA GOODS, imported in the Ganges, th
from Bengal, con filling of dl
piece 6 Gurrahs J 3
iooo do Baftas, different kmd* 1*
3500 do Coffas, do. o
15 0 do Humhums do. tc
600 do. Patna hdkfs. for women g
XQO ho. Addaties ia
80 do. Tabic cloths °
300 do. Emerties
go do Punjums . w
100 do. Fine Mulmuls
"00 do. Fine Dacca hdkft. r
ioo do. worked MuQins o
100 do. Doreas K
100 do. Book Muslin _, «. .
too do. black and colored Periians or Tiffetie. e
1200 do. Bandannoee, choc®late, red and blue
ISO' do. Choppa Romals "
40 quarter calks of Hyson Tea of gotd qoality r
?r> Souchong t
The coarse eoods will te fold by the bale, the taffetas n
„] iLU in lots to fait the purchalers, the teas by
the chetl. I'he whole is entitled to the drawback, and will f
bt fold for approved notes, on a libcia. credit.
The.goods nny be fcen from the 15th tnft. to the daj
previous to '••• • CONNELLY, Alienee l "- c
Seftcmbfr 8.- |
" Diifofuucn of Partnership.
r-pHF P, • n-.i, ROBt.R C DREWS and
I'D 'V!DMRRKolTH,«Bderil.efirmot ASDRIWi .
Ml- RKtoll'H bei»» dtllolvrd All p.-i(ons who are
f t t haufe,arc '
apply | o rfeu.~ .the
No 86 s . Wnaivej.
<ept.6, 17 b.
RAYNER TAYLOR,
Musrc PiteFtsso/!,
No. 96, North-S»XT-H STR-eT.
y> informs his Schel.'-rs, th*t he .ia« .
&/1 his att-ndanfe alter the summer W- |
ca*ipn; and, as v.iuai, teuchr Lad.es Slngmg and the J
r-'dp Fort*. Se P u 3 ' . J
I 70,000 Pieces Nankeens, J us
1 Of the befi quality and on rcajonabk terms,
TOR 3AX.E BY
Philip Nicklin & Co.
I lb-
—— 'if'r ; '
Just Arrived, Sept
j In the SnoW Boston, James Kirkpatrick, matter from L+
J coco Bushels SALT ; &
lob Crites QUEENS WARE; an« - I The Car f
1 An Afifrtment of SHIP CHANDLEK t ;
I korsalb
On board, at Pine-street wharf.—-Apply to * La:
Javies Campbell, or Ijl
&«•« Latimer. ,
; April 1?. ' *
Washington Lottery.
I THE Eighteenth and Nineteenth Days' Drawing of
the Waihißgton Lottery, No. t, are received at the office
1 No. IJ4, Markes-ftrcet, where tickets may be examined*
I N. 15. Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be procured. Jnne !
•| September 9, dt
r. I •
A At a fpccuzl meeting of the Board of Di
reS os for eflabllfhing ufefu! Manufacture!, holJen
~ at Pat erf on, July 8, 1796, ,oTmi
IT> ESOLVED, That a special meeting; of the ifcodk- , Cafe
ItV holders of the Society be called on the firft Monday, x Ditti
- being the third ay of OAober rfi«, at Paterfon, by »en , Dittl
"I of the clock of the fame day; then and there to take l D; tt ,
1 into consideration the propriety of dissolving tne said 1 Di;t
I corporation, agreeably to the law te such cafe ma< i= For S
1 provided and the Stockholders are earnestly requelUd
I to attend the said meeting in person or by P<"o*y- -u""'
AuguftaT dt?°thQ
in - ' ' J FOR sale;" : Pect
I A Complete Font of Brevier, _ Gl
I T7Ntirely new, and yet unopened. The weight of this M
•I Hi font is about 31jlb. It is from the Foundery ol T ,
j Wilfen St. Sons, Glasgow,and will be fold at cofl & charges. .Ol
- 1 Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes. Gl
1 Enquire at the Office of the Gazette ol the tmitde
] States, 119 Chefnut-ftreet. Aug. 19 $4W j j
I .♦ •-.•J.-.' -.«».«■" •»" ' , T Rl
for sale, b<
s! * I WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 yearsold,
II !n pipes and hogfr.eads
n * Claret,' genuine old, in cases ■
Gin, in pipes, from Holland
I Earthen Wfre, in crates
Basket Salt, in hoglheads
I Shot, Nos. 6, 7> 1 alld 9 " A 1
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead I V :
I Steel, German in barrels Messrs
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas, now d
I Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by • c '-'
_ THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. F
J»'y *9. — A pr
a] LANDING, —
"y- From on board the /hip STAR, Capt. Fanneman,
About 50,000 bottles, Q R
; from Brtftol—For by able.
• F. Coppinger. au
{ Au ? a(V 31' _ _ j 7
FOR SALE,
COFFEE, in hhds. bb!s. & bags
1 COTTON, of Deraerara, and > entitledto drawbacu And^
SOAL-LEATHER J A
Alio, 1 x
30ST0N BEEF, and Mould and Dipt CANDLES.
Apply to ISA HARVEY J,n.
r S south Water-street. .
Bej
3ar . 8 mo. ?o. v\
* A very Merchant Mill,
A DISTILLERY and BREWERY, and sundry STONE . ~A I
QUARRIES to be let
I will rent my merchawt Mill at the liitle Falls of Po
towinac, for any term not l«fs thanfeven, ijpr more than
harf, e [,. vcn ye ars, from the firft day of S,eptußber next. The
rong m fil-houfe is 41 by 40 feet, three (lories high, built with
(lone, and has in it three pairs of French Burr Stones, two J I
overfhet 18 feet wat r wheels, and Evans's machinery _
complete, with every other thing proper and necessary for ot w
. carrying on the bulinefs with dispatch, and at as little es
penfe as possible, all in good order.--From the miU to my •Pj c j
landing on the l'otpraac river, (whtre craft, of any bur- (
will then may deliver grain arid take in flour) it is about 40 Qut (
large ya rc!s, and from thence by water frf George Town and . lfc3 .
nges, t }, e City of Washington, about J miles, and to Alexan- j j.- Q[
dria about 11 miles. This situation, aided by a fufficient
capital, will command the produce of a very detenuve
back country, where Urge quantitiss of whrfat a.nd other
"rain is annually made, the distance to it being from 8
to 10 miles less than to any naziket town up in the navi
gation of the Potow ac. There al-e on the premises a
far<re (lone Coopers' (h 3p, a (lone granary, and a coramo
dio'us miller's house. At the landing aforefaid a bridge
is now building overthe Potomac, which is in great for
wardnefs and probably will be ftnithed the er.fumg fall.
There are also on the premises, a Brewery and Distille
ry, built with stone, in them are three stills, two coppers |
' or toilers, with every necessary artickj all new, and in
good order, and f*fficiently large to carry on the Brew- - .
ery and Distillery upon a very extcnfive plan. This prop
» erty I will rent for the fame term of years.
Upon my lauds adjoining the premises, and along the
banks of the river, 'where craft may lead withe'afe anddif- , p or
y piitch, is aii inmenfe quantity of building and fbunda- j
tion Hones. Four quarries are now open, and as many
affetas niore may be opened with ease : the done taken f rom theie 1
;as by quarries is beuet, and has the preference at this market, Dd
id will to any other flone brought to it. I will rent fhefe quarries 01":
feparatcly or together as may bell suit.
IC day On the top of the hill, and about aoo yards from the ot 1
mill, i» a stone Dwegpg-Jwrtfe.-ferge enough for the ac- Co
eer. commod.i'.iiii of a family : also, a kitchen, dairy, smoke- • »°j
d— hrtMre, See. and a gardes, enc ofed and in cultivation, the
ibi of 'which is equal in goodness to any in this 1
will alio rent this property. . . ,
/S and Adjoining to the BreSvery r*nd Diftialcry a Smith s IIK
ws (hop, in which is a complete set of Blacksmith's tools, | C c,
'bo are j ~Y ; n a lso.rent, ,and if agreeable I will hire to the i C I
ife, ate tenant two negro black&r.iths, one of them is a complete lie
workman. _ 1 u
' H I rent out the stone qtiarries, I will fell three err..is, at
f which were built for the purpose of carrying stone : they to
willTaltogsther bring wpwartis of 90 p"rch Immediate
poffeiTion will be given' For terms apply to the fubfcrib
'' er in this town. - |
The Mill, Brewery and Distillery, with the> appurten
ances, will be delivered to the tenant or tenants in good
he has repair, and must be so returned, at the cxpiratibfi of the
ner V - 6 leate Or leases t _
Bd t he I PHILI? RICHARD FENP -LL.
* dm, As»j, :&r"5,5 W
JUS T A RR iVE D, from Lijbon,
And for Sato by the Subfcribcw,
Lisbon Wine,
la pipes an quarter-ca&s;
<*000 Bushels Lilbon Salt. ylt
Jefi V Robert Wdru
Sept. 19. 4f f VV ]
Sacs of India Gqocls. sI^ Sr
1 The Cargo ef tka(hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from C«l
---cutta and Bengal, he will fc
CON3ISTIMO OF
ALaree and general assortment of Bengal and Madras _ c
COrTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins,
>ome e
Doreas, ttfc. Also, Bandar
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
lf In boxes ami bags-and PEPPER,
I WilHngs y Francis,
r No. si Penn Street. Umhrt
Tone & 5 French
■ Irilh L
•_ French Goods.
Received, by thl Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-de-
Grace, From oi
10 Truiks") Ladies , SHO E S D f a u colors forts and. £*ea
"■ I Cafe \ SmDJG,
y. i Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS Lon
en x Ditto Fine 1 AWN r
* te 1 Dittobeft fine CAMBRIC "Ther
■id I Ditto Ladies' best ftiammy and Grenoble Gloves J
nd For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN (t£TLA>D. OLD v
e<l Aug
yiy.*. ft.'t. > . Sept.
Dutch Goods,
Etceh'd by the Pcnnfylvania, from Amjlirdam.
~ GIN, in pipes p
" Morlaix ~
01 Ticklenburgs <> In Bales
c! ' -Ofmburgs J
; de -hS } Strl?M ' I"
— Hollands \ DUCK,Jin ditto
Ravens }
Bedlicks, is ditto Q
Id, Brirtagne* 7 lo ditt o ./'
Platilles ) . _, -a chell'
Fqt Sale by THOMAS V J6H& ZETLAND.
■. . *
For Sale, t
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and' Lot, in Chefnut S ,
street, between Froniaiid Second streets, in which g.
Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many year, (and L
■as, now do) carried on buliftefs. , » 3
Poffellion will be given in one month, or looser.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or -
; HECTOR-CALBRAITH., c '
r r 3
April at. ——— — — ti
•an, A IVook-Keeper, j«iy i
OR Clerk's place is wanted by a person properly quail-
6si, and whoft- cb r-a* willbe foaad-unexceftion
able. Apply to the Printer.
' Aug ' n iv" ..jj-r SGI
— Great is Truth and must prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED, A
3ack 4„d for fait at A r o- 41 Chef hut-put by J. QRMROD, ttwt
An Apology for the Bible,
>ES. Jsy [I. Watson, B. D. F. P.' S.
"* Bi'hop of Landaff, 13c. ,
w' Being a complete refutation of Paine s
—• ° Age tf Aeafon,
L, A'id the only anf«er to the Second
ONE Augu!' "o. ■— ; —-
r Po DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
than 1 , j
Notice is hereby Given, r 5 ;
; two T'H AT agreeably to an aft of Congtcfs of the United
in"rv 1 Slates ot Vmt rica, pissed at Philadelphia, the aß'.h diy lsi
ell of Mav, i7t}S'; laying-duties on Carnages, for the convey#
\l ance of perlons, and repealing the former ash for that pur-
pole. — Ihai ,he.e ll»all be levied, colleQed .
. all carriage, for the conveyance of perlons, which (hall be
bUf * kepi by or tor any perlon, for his or h«r own use, or to let
M out to hire, or for the conveying of passengers, the feVcral d«-
n and I tics and rales folio .viw, to wit.
lexan- I jr or 4nd upon every Coaen, ij dols. tiei.f
Scient open every Cliatiot, 1 a dols. A
enflve uponevery Foft Chanot, it dols< or p
other .upon every Polt Chaise, 12 doll. any
rom 8 upon every Phac.on, with or without top, $fIoIS T
navi- upon every C»achee,g dol». rate
,if cs a -upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work, above, Ty|ri
nmo. with blinds, glasses or cunains, 9 dels. freE
brii-ltrc opcmopcm four wheel carriages, having fcaraed potts ana
frU. top! with tleel Ipiidgs, 6 dols. . /■
— n npon four wheel top Carriages,' with wooden or iron
springs or jicks, 3 dole. ,
upon curricles with top«, 3 doll/
oppers j upon chaises with topi, 3 dols.
lEd m upon chairs wilh topi, 3 dols. .
Brew- .. u{ . 011 sulkies tops, 3 dols.
■prop' * Upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols. Un:
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or iron fpfings, r J
ng the 3 d„i,. folc
nddif- ; r or an a upon all other two wheel carnages, a dols a f te
junda- | upon every four whe 1 carriage, having tramra polts nvir
many 1 -. nd tops; and reltiug uppn woodea.fo-'rs, aflols. t ( , [&
«these The Colltftots of iheHevcnur ot the firft lurvev otjhc th< _
narket, Diltrift ps Pennsylvania, will attend daily, un. lithe 30th flay
uarries of Septcrrriser nf«,fcr th« purpose of rece log the dunes on
Carriages, at No. , if, in Race or SafTafrW ftrcet, h. the wuy 8
im tSe ot PtnUdelphia at the houlc ol Daniel S. Clair, tlq[in
.h" ac- County ot Montgomery; and at the houlc of Abraham Du
fn , p hois, Esq. in the County of Bucks; of which all perfoas pot - c
"¥* frded of'Uch Carriages, -re deft red to take notice, n>«
S. 1 Notice is also gi'ren, th ,
TO all retail dealers' ip Wines, and foreign di (tilled fptri-
Smith's tuous liquon.-thai-Ucerrces will be granted to lijera ; one li j(
's tools, cencc for carrying on the hufineis ot retailing of \\ inei, in a b£]
sto the lefiquantity, iir in less quantities than 30 8""°"' *"
omplete licenre for carrying on tirebufinetsof itni.ling pt " i c ;
F .quors in letsqnintities than ,= gallons at the a«d i
: crafts, at the lame places, by the officers legally authorised to grant c<
■ they fucU licenccj. WILLI - M NICHOLS, ha
n , , a ! C Infpeftor of the Rcvenue«t the firft survey dr
übtcr ! of ihediltn£lot Pennf)lvarua. ca
SDurten- Off-e of lnfpcctino.at > .3* lh
P ". philadcl Jiia, till Julv, 1796. S
in gooci - -• t
1 ,hc WANT E 1),
1 . 11. An APPRENTICE ta tbr Prlrting Bafweft. °
Enquire at this Ofli:r. : 9 c
c A B L• E s,
Prom >6 to q i inches, for fate by
fcr.tmiab Warder,
July H § n north Thud-ftfert*
, "> ' " "" \
Win. HOLD ERA 1 BSSE,
Nv. 76 High Strftt,
HAS by "the latcft arrivals from Europe »f»A
the forft Indies, a well (Hefted atfortmf nt of Stl*
Mercery, Linen Dupery and H«Ae<daOwry <J *' ds^, . cfl
he will fell, Whole We and Retail, an the lowest terms ,
amongst which ak.*,
Some Ene India muslins embroidered with geld and fflver
Superfiueßook, JUi*. aad .
Some extra blaclt taffeties,lu«ftrie S sand s«sor.i Pcifians
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and Ihort Nankeens 1
Englilh Mantuas of the firft quality
Damaflc table linen and napkins, Very Me
Silk Hoflery, an elegant aifortnunt-
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas —green silk, oil d do. and do cl#ta
French cambrics-, Very fine
Irish LiJlens, do. &f- &t. Jv»n e 14 §
1 —9-? —r* l "- «'■' I '■**
landing,
From nntod the Brig UEBFX-CA. D.rr.inxDavnie,
Master, at Philip Care's Wharf, and for Salt by thd
London ' Particular Madeira. WINE,
In Pipes, Hogth ads Quarter Casts
f here are in the above pan-.-i in Hhds. oi CIIOiCL
OLD WINE*, fit for immediate use.
Robert Andrews,
- Sept. 6. IfcW NO. 86, So Wharves,
Philip . Co, '
HAfE (OR SALE,
Souchong >
?£ngH?fon i *W* TEAS
Hyson and \
Imperial
Yellow Nankeens . .
Chi»a Ware, aborted in Bofe» and Ctifßs
cf ' excciknt l ualit ?
- fcFSsffft ■
Tener'ffe Wine in pipe* and hoglUa<J»
ut Sugar Canxlv by t he Box
cb Sad Canvas *No. 1 a 8
nd Lead in sheets .
A*?ew chllb ps' MancWfler Goods, affortpi
*"• .iSkWtfS &•*
« Tierces Virginw Sr.ake-root.
Nails aiTortcd in casts
... « • rewifer
July 18
ili- , ■ ! '
Offry cf Wa'.hington.
r SCHEME of the LOTT ERY, \ T o. 11,
~~ fOR THS. IMPRO'/HMSST OF THS.
federal city.
A magnificent ) 30,000 doliars, & > jo l<)eo
)D, Jiwtlling-houfe, 5 cash 3°- G ° 0 ' are >
j ditto i\S,Q°° * 25> 00( ? 40,000
') I ditto 15,000 & calh I5)G00 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10.000 10,090
1 ditto 5,000 £<■ cash 5,000 so,ooo
, 1 ditto J.ooo & caii 5,000 >0,000
e § 1 cash prize of >°*°°
ado. 5,000 each,.\re '• 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - » 10,00®
,0 do: s°* - - J 0 ' 000
CO do. WO * JO,OOO
91 ,0 do. 50
.too do. • • I0 > 00< >
l.ooodo. *° i ' »>°°°
15)000 do. 10 - - W5»
lited r
day i 5,739 Pr-ces.
Rknks.
f p b° Tickets, it Eight Dollars, 400,000
i°j'" "w B To favour those who may tafcc a quantity of
"* Tickets, the prize 0r'40,000 dollars will be thfe i< »T drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 £he last but oHt :
And approved nous, securing payment m either monoy
or pri.es, in ten days alter drawing, be retewed foe
any number not Itfs than 30 tickets. ,
Is This Lottery «ill afford an etegantfpeeimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ereaedin the City of Wafiungton—
bovc, T bcauciiul dfcfigns are already for the entire
, frents on two of the public squires; from these praw.ngs
' ind it is proposed to ereA two centre and four .corner bmldings,
as Toon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortanate adventurers, in
the manner defcribcd in the fchemc for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dedo&ion of five per cent, wdlbe fflsdett defray
the neccflary eipenfes of printing, &c. and the surplus
will he made a part of the.fund intended for the National
University, to be erefled within the city of Washington.
Jfings, The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold ofiU -The money prizes will be pay able inthirty days
after it 15 finHhad 4 and any pr«es for which fortunate
1 P osts numbers ate not produced within twelve months after th«
awin closed, are to be considered a- g.yen toward*
of the the rani for the University •, It being determined to fettle
th day the whole buftnefs in a year from the e -.ding of the draw
'et^°n ine and to take up the bonds given as feciirity.
,e "XI rh, real fecurit.esgiven for .he payment ot thePnzes,
m the , PrcSdent afid two D,irc<stdrß of the Banfc
;£ rSLS'Sii— *««"• -
tVeaty^o"/gomiemen •»<•" •>' .ppoiotnuin ot
the late Ofcmmiilioners assisted .n the r.iana|emeu Of Che
1 ( P" U Hotel Lo'tcry are requested to undertake this arduous taQc
- " f£nd Sen behalf cf the pu«ie ; a fufficießt r.um,
m a hc . theft: havirg afcepted.it is hoped that the
nrf T Wends to a National University and the other federal oo
lousli- - con .; BU e'to favor the design. .
mc aßd i By accounts received from the dtferent parts of the
0® r Continent as well as from Europe, where the ticket.
c have been Tent fcr fair, the public are allured that th*
'nefi. of' John 'HagU., Richmond ; »r.i o£ RicbaM W .
. ' Cooper's
*rim day is PUBiMiZf)*
And lcld by W ILL IA M COBBE ff, opponte
Christ Church,
MISS WILLIAMS'S «
, Last LeiFon to the Admirers of French
Liberty.
• Let tfcofe who doubt of the fa<3a stated in Porcupine's
Bloody Buoy, read here and be convinced
/it the fame place may be had,
Watson's Apology for the Bible ;
Being a complete refutation of that blasphemous work
fali'ely called the " Age of Reason."
At Alfa
All the Grub-street Pamphlets-, vomited forth from
, the lungs of filth and falfehood, against
Peter Porcupine.
Sept. 14■ 1 . .
For Sale,
(In an excellent situation for InifmeCl,)
A tb#ee-ftory brick House and Lot of
Ground,
Eighteen feet front and twenty-five feet in depth, on
the South fide of Market near Front-street, now in posses
' flon'of S2tnuel Read.
Apply u
Israel Pleafants, of
Charles & Joseph Pleafants.
Sept. 13. dtf
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lis
bon, landing at the'fubferibers wharfs
Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spariifh woq!
' 3 do. of Annifeed
7000 Bushels of best Lilbon Salt
80 9ojc«s of Lemons
■ • ; For sale by WILLINGS l\ FRANCIS.
ALSO,
Seventy prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
r ece(Ved by the fbip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Haft,
from Kingston,
; Sept. ij. d
~H'.I BE R NIA NS O CIE TY.
A QUARTERLY MEL/TNG of the Hibe*nmn
Socttff for the Relief of Emigrants from Ireland,
wjll ba ilel<J .at Mr, M'Shane's tavern, in Third-street, on
Saturday the 17th isft. at.seven o'clock in tht Evening.
Maths# Caret, See'ry. ■
September 13, 1796. d^
P. S. It is particularly requcftcd the member* will be
juntfhjal in their attendance.
M A I L S,
For the following Pnfl Offices, will be tlofed at
Philadelphia OS,Friday afternoon at sun-set : —
Mails from the fame fo/l'OJiccs will arrive on
' Friday morning— *
Abbot ft own, P. [Hanover, P. PITTSBURG, P.
Abingdon, Va. Hagerftown, Md. Rockinghamc. h. v
Bardiitown, K. Harrodfburg, K. Sharplburgh, Md.
Bedford, P. . Hancock, Md. Shepherciftown,Va
Bath c. h. Va. Jonelboro', Ten. SpringfielJ, K.
Bourbon, K. Knoxville, Ten, Steveniburgh, Va.
Brownsville, P. Lancaster, P. Stralhurg, Va.
CarliOe, P. Leelburg, Va'. Staunton, Va.
Chamberlbufg, P. Lexington, JC. Sweet Springs, Va.
Cincinnati, n. w. t. Lexington, Va. Taney-Town, Md.
Cumberland, Md. Lsuifville, K. Union, P.
panville, K. Marietta, n, w t Walhington, P,
Downingtown, P. Millerftown, P. Walhington, K.
Fra*kfort, K. Maitir.fbnrg, Va. Williamsport, Md.
f Frcdericktn. Md. Montgemevy, cv. Wincheflcr, Va.
Gallipolis, n.W. t. Morgantown, Va. Weft Liberty, Va.
Greeufburg, P. Nashville, K. Wheeling, Va.
Gettifourg, P. New-MarUct, Va. Woodftock, Va. • 1
J"* Greenbrier c. h. v. Oldtown, \d. Wythe c. h. Va. 1
Greensville, Ten. I'eterfbu'gh, P. York P.
•The MAIL from Lancaftet, P. arrives at Philadelphia,
every Monday, Wedfiefd y and Friday, at 6 P.M. and
closes at Philadelphia the fame days, at 7 P. M.
The J.*AIL for Fottfgrove, Reading, Lebanon, and
Harriiourg, will dose at Philadelphia, : every Tuesday,
Thursday and Saturday, af-7 P. M.
General Poll-Office, September 15,1796. d 4t.
Watson's .Answer to Gibbon. ,
JUST RECEIVED,
And for sale by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, J
Apology for Christianity,
In a Jerin of letters, addrejjed to
Edward Gibson, EiQ;
Author of the liiftory of the Decline and Fall Of the t
Roman Empire: ,
Bv R. WATSON, D. d. f. r. s. Bishop of Landaff.
(Price 75 cents bound ) I
Watson's Answer to Paine,
To be had at the fame place.
The enemies of Religion are, awake ! Let not her '
friends Jleep. 1
Sept. j. mw&ftf i
Brokers Office, and [
COMMISSION STORE.
Kt>. 63 South Third ftrtst, eppofste the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FR \UNCKS and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnerfiup, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN RF.EO, in the bufmef- of Brokers 1
Conveyancers and Comraiffton merchants. They buy and '
fell on commifTson every species of ilock, notes of i'and, t
j bills of exchange, houses and lands, &e. 1 t
Monet procured on deposits, &c. Sic. all kinds c'
writiags in the conveyancing line, don; with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjuftcd, and books fettled, in the 1
moil corred manlier. Cos (bust attendance will be given. 1
They solicit a {hare o'f the public f*vor ; they are deter
mined to tildeavour todefcrveit.
N. B. The lltmeft fccrecy observed.
S AMUKL M. FRAUNCE9, J
JOHN VAN REED.
Phiiid. AUgifft tj, m&wtf
THIS DAT IS PVBLISHED, ' '
[Price one quarter of a dollar] •
Embellished with a curious Frontispiece, '
The Adventures of a Porcupine j '
Or the VILLAIN UNMASKED, '
BEING the Memoirs of a notorious Rogue lafely in '
♦he British army, and ci-devant member ci an ejrtenlive I
ticaT-rj.No«s«rr> afloeiation m England Containing a (
virrative of the rrift txtraordinar> and unex<mfled de- (
of conduct perhaps ever exhibited to the world,
in a l.etter to a young geatltniin in New-Yurk.
" These tilings arc ftrangc, but not mofe ftrarge rtvasi 1
t) ue." <
To zuh.'ci) is added, t
A Poftfeript to Peter Povcupine: t
Xtlßg t-aaa'ks on a Pamphlet, lately-poblifhed by him, i
en'itled, his " Life and Adventures." t
Sr DANIEL DSTFCJOK. t
" I'll tell the lioldfac'd villain that he lies."
sold by As Sc J. G. H. > srsok, corner of Relief and *
Waiter's Ali.-y, i ?.rk of 77, Dock street, and by the | *
, -4iiTercnt bookftTeri in this city. ■ j 1
7- inw&f J i
: CONTINUATION OF
foreign intelligence,
, By the late arrivals
AUGSBURG, jane 16.
s The army of the Alps, vvhi'ch is to fesond Oe
' neral Buonaparte's operations, to 50,000
itien.
June 20.
' An eftafette. arrived to-day with letters from it«-
\f, and from Trent on the iStli* whfch announces
1 that -flothingof consequence had happened vp to
th« 17th, on which day there was 3 fmil! affui» at
Monte-Baldo, nearihe Lake of GardS, which cott
. the"f rench zoo in wounded and prifonei s.
Reports upon what lias -parted hefofe Mantua,
fay, that on the 7th and Bth, tjie French ereftcd
p some batteries opposite the gate Molina (on the
road tif Vienna) and Fort St. the road
to Legnano) from which the city is fcparated by
1 a bridge of 27 arches, with three dravr-bridges.—
' The artillery of the fortrefs killed many men ; but
they succeeded in eftablifiiing some mortars and
cannon, which played the next day on the city,
and continued until the 12th, when their ammuni
tion failed them, and they seemed rather to be
making a blockade than a siege.
We learn from Verona on Ihe I jfth, that a great
number of wounded have been brought there ;
the French fuffered mod near the Molina Gate ;
" it appear* they have abandoned it, and now confine
themselves to maintain their position on the point
of St. George, where they do not fear the fellies
as trie gatrifon.
Thi? Florence Gaisette assures us, that the loss of
General Beaulieii on the 30th of May was at lead
7*ooo in killed, wounded, and prifoneri. He lolt
his Camp equipage, his baggage, and his artillery,
and retreated with only 3000 men, and on the road
to Trent. Buonaparte's accounts does not make it
so difaftrcus.
Letters from Piacenja, of th# loth, announce
the continual passing of French Troops to reinforce
General Buonaparte s 400© men went by on t'ne
7th, and 7000 were expedted from Tortftna, roak
ing probably part of Kellerman's army.
HERMANSTADT (Hungary) June 11.
As the Grand Seig?iior heard of the suc
cesses of th? French in Italy, he sent a courier to
Vienna to allure t'!ie Emperor of his pacific dis
position. The Emperor in consequence has drawn
all his troops from the frontiers of the Turkish
dominions, to fend them to the Rhine and to Italy.
The Grand Seignior is fuppafed to have pursued
this coHtiuft with the view of deceiving h : e Impe
rial Majesty ; for he is afiembling large numbers of
troops on the German frontiers, under pretext of
quelling a pretended rebellion of the Pacha of Wid
din, and the fortrefs of Belgrade never was better
furnifiied with troops and proviiions ; so that it is
really fuppSfed the Turks are only amusing the
Court of Vienna, in order that they may attack it
with the greater advantage."
_ W E S E L, July 2.
It is fald that the Dutch troops who were on thtir
march to join the French army, have received orders
to hah. They will wait faiWfr #r«fiio»s between
Cleves and Nimeguen. They desert by hundreds
every day.
We learn from Amsterdam, that Schiedam is in
full infurreftion, and that trouble*- have also broken
out at Edam, which incresfe daily.
The news of the paffage'of the Rhine by the
French, near Strafcurg, is conhrmcd.fiora all sice's
AMSTERDAM, June 27.
The Dutch troops ordeied. to march to Duffel
dorfF, for some reason which has not transpired,
have received a counter-order from General Bour
nonville, and are to be provifion»lly quartered be
tween Nimeguen and Cleves.
PARIS, July 7.
We learn fiom Geneva, that Madame, wife to
the Pretender, has jaft patted through Switzer
land ; (he (topped lome days at Nurich, which
place (he left on the 28th of June, and proceeded
to Germany. As the king's daughters were ex
pressly excepted, in that article of the trtaty with
Sardinia, which compels his Majesty to - fend all
French emigrants from I urin, the journey under
taken by this Priucefs is purely voluntary, anß is
said to have no other motive, than a deftre to join
her hufl»and. , i
LONDON? July 15.
Three very weighty have been no
ticed Gnce the arrival of general -Bournonville i tt
cioi.and ; and it is Hot difficult to perceive that
they *11 originate from one cause. ift. The smo
thering the late eonfphacy at Amsterdam, by means
of a military position. 2d. A rcfolutton taken by
the provincial government of this city, outraging
of the 27th Nivofe, «d year X,ft
January 1 795 J And, 3 dlv. The declaration of
leveral commiflioncrs, that the numerous and alatm
ing cifertions of our foldievson the frontiers, is to
be aforihed to their being placed in the firft line
i -fie, mostly buffers, are said to aaourit to 4000
ano who, tvrth their horfej and Eccoatreraents,
are gone over to the Pruffiaus. Vaiioua. however,'
are the eaufes afltgirsd, snd among others, the
fearcenefs and deamefsot provisions. But is i=- not
rather t° be ascribed to their knpwn affection for
tlie old government, and in consequence, their tr
penance to serve under a foreign commander in
chie , arr9y , hey so , a , d & >
Oeiraral Bournonville, notwkhft.ndinjr, leaves no
meant imnrf to create an emulate affection between
the two combined-armies, &le f ee d the holy fla me
of that liberty, which is so dear to him. In conse
quence, however °f the evils that have enW,
hat eontinue, and jre_ likely to. become greater
U i» tint week to be agttated in the affetnbly, vvhe
- uaderceitain condi-
Xere til the . ar ?' f ed bur S hers frontiers,
xvhom IV'S ° f ? bf " VStlon is and on
IW?L- / mp " C,t rd ' ar,ce can placed
iVtcrrifyW,' 0 41 " 00 85 im P° n * ,u 38 «>«e other
«• The Church feenw t» f ;•"
modern arts. While We have a bifftop' «» - .!,cb,
who !» next affiaej to be 'tried for a not,we tu-r of
'» St. Peter'* missionaries at Rome mi
litary in -the manual exercise.
The Glasgow Volunteers have preferred hctite
nant M'lntofli with a silver cup. Ti:ey resolved
that it (hould not be an empty compliment, mit
0 wa> filled with Scotch Champagne ! -
We are told, that the French are going Jo attack
Jersey ; and, in one sense, we not if they take
Jersey to themfelresl
9 * The fetfons, like ««vy thing else, teem in 3 fait
° of revolution, We have ipring weather in tHe
'? days, and summer in Q&ober.
" Women," fays Shakfpeare, " are May while
they ate maids.'* The faihions, are
'I much changed since his time, it " only summer
with thenJ now when they are grandmothers
j July 14.
Letters front Italy, of th« 20th and 2tt or
y June, mention a faccefsful Sally by the garnfon 01
Mantua, who compelled the French to retire with
' E considerable loss. On the borders of the TyroJefe,
a partial action took place, between the advanced
' polls, on the J 7th, in which the French were de
feated, with the loss of too men. _ _
e The inhabitants of Carinthia, in imitation of
their gallanc neighbours, the natives of the Fytd»•
' lefe, have taken up arms to oppose the entrance of
j the French into their country. No iefa than
* z4> co ° vdlunteers have already enlisted, a part of
e whom hate taken poffeilipu of the passes which
' lead to the territory of Venice.
8 : An article from Vienna of the t£th of June,
, states, that )s®,oor> recruits will be forthwith levi
, td in the dominions of the emperor, 40,000 of
1 which will be supplied by th« Provinces over which
general Beaulieu Ins been appointed toprefide.
Preparations were making for an expedition a
gainlt Batavia, and the Spice Island*.
' The Pearl Merchantman, which brought the
above intere'ling news tb BuiTora, left l»dia on the
[ 34th of March. The Arrogant, of 74 guns, and
an armed ftip, were in quell of fame French frr-.
e gates, which had made an unfuccefsful attempt on
J)iu.
Advices have been received from the Mediterra-.
nean, which Hate, that Commodore Nelson had ve
ry gallantly cut eut of a port near -the gulph of
Spezzia, four French /hips laden with artillery and
erdnance {tores, destined for the fiegc of Mantua
Yesterday count Ziepplin presented to the king, a
1 very highly finirtied portrait of his serene highness
5 the duke of Wirtembefg, who is to espouse the
j Princess Royal, in his majesty's closet. it vraa ex
hibited to-day, at court, in due form, -
j. There >is a very well appointed and well difei
piined militia in Jtrfey, to aid the military force in
that island, which is extremely refpe&able. With
the assistance of fix frigates of force, which the ad
nsira't} have ordered to cruise between the French
coatl and Jersey, little apprehension need be enter
' tained for the fafety of that island.
Frigates are ordered to cruize for the protection
of Jersey. There is a Jeifey that would be better
fui-joimded by fire ships.
r Diti, upon which fame French ships have latefy
mar's an unfuccefsful attempt, is a strong town in
1 tlie kiagdomjef Guearat, seated in an island of the
fame. It is pretty large, and fortified by a (lone
wall with baftioni. Guzavat is a province in I«-
doftan, i» the dominions oi the Great Mogul. The
, at t J ck made by the French frigates must.have been
mereiy with the view of plunOer, Diti is in long.
. 63, 2s, E. lat. 31, 35. N.
CHATHAM, July .12.
Thmfday lall, in cor.frquence of orders fronl
v 7 ice-Adiniral Buckner, there was a press in
thi» river, for men foi L'Oifeau and the Mantague,
• when many ao!e seamen were collided from ftupn
lately arrived from the Baltic.
Same day failed the Imperial Jhifl Peter, .of 74
guns, Prince Tr-obolefljoi, cowmander, to Black
f.akcs, delticed to join admiral Duncan j the Phi
hp and Pajpiane, each of 66 guns, are, asfoon as
repaired, inHnded ta form a part of the fame faua
" drou. n
j I riday failed the Belle Pouk te Shrernefs, whkh s
wall the j3£°lus, are intended as leceivrnfi; (bip» for
the Ruffian fcjuadion. »
1 #
1 fl PORTSMOUTH, July j,.
Arrived the Bourdeaiix Trader, frota Tentriffe 1
, 7 } «« Dutch Fleet failed from
tlie orand Cananea on the 18th of May hft.
— 4
FROM THE MINERVA.
! POLITICAL TANATICISM.*
* nIT i3 c ne ° f the strangest truths, if that can be
b Jltange which is very tomrmn, that men are never at
f a lois for good exi.afcs, to apologize and jullify all,
\ their deteltable conduct.
t When vhe British commandos in America want
cd to vent their spite and vengeanee againfl the A
mencans, for rcfiflhrg the tyranny ot their govern-
J rnent, ihey fixed on them the odious epithet of R t
- M, which, according to th»honourable fa-uage laws,
3 ol war, juftified a greater degree of ieventy to
"-els them, than towards other enemies. This
, r wat a. very convenient apology for starving Ameri
e can pufoiifis, (tabbing them, j'nfuiting them, freez
t ing t„em, and crouding them by thousands into
r holds of ffUps, to Wt«cd itif c^ion , and perish by re
- giments. r 1
i 1 his also was their excitfe for burning towns,lay
• ing waftc the 6e!os, and abusing the helpless inha
j bitanta—..old men, women and children. Com
i plaints that such treatment was contrary to the laws
e o- war, were answered with, " You are damned
- rebels—it is good enough for you 1"
, When the queen regent of the Guises in Friince
, bore a spite against their rivals, the great Conde,
- Congni, and their party, and wiflied ;o get rid of;
- Jhera, they called in the cause of God and holy re
s 'gion to jullify their villainous measures. Their
1 ccs were proteflant; and h;reU:s—to murder them !
- ' would be doing Ofid service. This roused the pal
ions of their fanatic followers—" Come, let ns a
fvenge .hetdufeof God and holv chsrch." The
*• - i
i fatal tJrd-r was tfiven, and thirty thufu-.
wete .ificilinated.
When Peter ;hc Hermit vha fcir?
for the true religion, and crecttq th
the e.rofs, to rally a faiatic he d for
couqueft, all Euippe arose in nrrw
fidels.—Armies of btgo'i th'tr:\ ftmi
the weft, and depopulated £, Jriin?
holy city from ihe Turks, those »il t ,
detestable followers of a fa I(e prophet.
yfms of murderous zeal spread over n: •
dured for ages, Thoiifands felj by ;|,
millions by famine and peilili-nce, in
of defending Jefuj Chrill.*
Now, a new 1 species of foflaticifm b -
French nit ian—a zra!to m'ahs : all the world
tiint—z real, as wild and rdiciilonsas that "tV-iel
the Hermit, to recover Jet ufaiejn wl■ of
as thaf «r tue Cartjolics in France ia past ag t ,
exterminate protelhiHi. And the exctics .
make for their severe despotism over the ciwjue'/
countries, ana their military exactions,
only the mod honourable k:ad of"robbery, j.,
to Uc irapattial wot id, as fltrafy and as tjram L
as the pretexts of the Britilh to rob ana pi u
this country, because we did not itke tlicit gofer,
nrent.
See the following proclamation df Buo.iapsrtc oi
June 16, to the Italian*.
. " A misled multitude, whd hare no real means of
refinance, proceed to every kind of cxcels, refute to
acknowledge the republic, and menace the army
that hap triumphed over so many kings."
Observe, reader, the French genera! callsthep«o>
pis a mi/led multitude. Now, this was preaffely ;ht
language of Burguyne, in his proclamatii to thj
Americans—a deluded people. The eommtlfioncrj,
Jo««son, Edkn, wbo came quite acrol* tfte At.
lantic, to offer the Americans peace, on condition
of fubmifton and furrendety of the leading ttcu f it
hanged, used the fame language. Nay, taort, thi
duke gf Brunfwick, and prince Cobourg, in their
proclamation t<J the French people, used the fame
fort of language. Tyrants are all alike—tuts won« Ji
der people Jo <><*-%? Uicii.dumtKStiSai'Mimerci.
fully ascribe their.resistance to delujion.
But, fays B u«n apart e, these people have no rej
me mis of defence. Juii so Burgoyne told the Ame.
ricans, and I'aidfo Gage, Howe and Clin:o:i. " It
v£a» impuiftble to relist the Bri.ilh forces andmarf.
nefsito attempt it." But the Ftench geuerallhould
reflect, thav if the people*have no meifls of de
fence, there is no glory in conquering them, but a
gt-eat deal of meanneft in infultwg and opprejjing
them.
And what have these mijled people done I for, if
m'tjled, they are not crim unl, and dclerve tu pu
nilbment. Why, tliey rtjuje to acknoiuieJgc tht rf
public. A horrid crime thi6, not to like ihen'«on<
querers. J till so the Americans rervfed toridtnoi*.
leege the authority of parliament to l/rnd tk<m in all
cafet -whatfeever. They w filled the iiruilh force*
—they would not, sr.d did not itibmii. After a
good deal of trouble, we got rid of parliament, fe»
neralt and troops, and jull so the ppople of Inly
will do, with the French.
" But, fays Buonaparte, these people " iatdJcß >
the army that has triumphed over so many kiagJ."
Ah, here the proud despot comes oijt. ®tati
refill an army that bai conquered kings and princc#
and nobles J Alloni/hing inl'nlence ! The very name
of filch a brave set "f fellows ought la infpiityo#
with terror—you ought ta fall down and Motlkip
them.
" The 'insanity of tbefe people, fay* Buoiupartt,
defer ves pity." Yes, insane indeed, not to i«!
happy under French government, lhit demand)ill
the raorey, proviftuns and horses, necefary to tup
port an army of too,coo mem One wouldih::is
they might as well pay tithes to priettst.
" The Geaeral in Chief," (now fcr farwJi
and a fine French encomium on hintfei!) " /anwul
ta the principle* of the French nation, whitl' nub*
not war on the people» i* fti'l deftroas of
tht dsor open to repeutanee. But those w»o alter
a delay of 24 hours, do not lay down Aw
aod take a new oath of fidelity to the heacr. t«-
public, /kali it treated tu rcieh oud tliir i' w 4''
iurnt."
This ia the gcntla.language of
T mean French Republicans. Ju/l fnch
this were proclaimed in America by tic nt ■
Generals. " Submit to out authotityr J 2 * l - 1
oath of allegiance, to out merciful fovev e ijn> *
will treat you as rebels* blirn, bang and iJe«Loy.
" The terrible example of Binafco oug it to o«
pen their eyes,*' fay 6 Buonaparte.
Bii>afco was a village burnt by!his g-><"*' JS e ° .
qtieror, because some of its people rebelk a o" n .
the French authority. Y<s, the
" open their eytß*'and their ears tu fucb 3 ':' r
woik a. that—it will I >njj be ren»emieivd with «: •
feft. The people of America » opened
eyes," very often, *ndtio yet, aj the - f
Falmouth, Norfolk, New-London, irairtidd,.
\ralk, fte. , , ,
Now to flofe this despotic and savage bultn
Buonaparte favs in kiudnefs, in the mi 0 r F
licas humanity. » That the fame fate, tta
every town and village that remains 0 1 '
"Si of'M, t»«' rJzii
gel of Rcottblicanifm, check. i'"" au .'" L
lueror, who is disgracing the nam« of a Kepub
Ucan, making it odio« to all
tions! If Republican government ts
a.,<l rrwft ar? de!t..icrd f ' cr 10 to counter- -
this bold, inicmpacatc young - .'' f vV
ad the progrefi ol refoin«"on. ) acJ f[onJ
Rf)d barbarity that would hardly ?
an Attila or a Suwarrow.
• •
r !t is c deviated by historians, that two muP n'
men pcrilhed in the cruiades. * _
Ilofs and Simfon
Have fo> SilCj
A few calks Bees-W ax, %
Of nn excellent qailrty. .
And a F' a ' cei oi Lampblack. j
Sept. 14-Philadelphia.
' !
WEDNESDAY E\ENING, SEPTEMBER 14, 1796. ,
The we ithrr is uncommonly warm—beware of in- !
temper-ae <i alights of cold water. This caution may
be the more nectffi y ae the season is pall when acci
d«nts from this cauic 4re moil frequent.
A few davi Gnce, was found recently buried in a
roiigh ox, behind a deUtW! building, an infant
which appeared to have been llrangleu.
Yeflerday a man was brottjrht into rown in a chair,
who had been out a gunning, in company with ano
ther. and had got badiy wounde'd by the accidental
discharge of one of ih," fowling piece?.
Sucr accidental are frequent—and yet, how inefTec- i
tual lha warning ! A tew days finre two lads were 1
out a gunning—one passed over a rail fence, tile other
followed—the gun of the latter went off as he ilepped
on the : . wer rail, and the charge pafled jyft over the
bead of his companion.
Captain Barney not taken,
There is a !e;ter in town from an officer of Adm,
Murray's fleet, -tfhich fays, that after taking one ftip
the other two of Capt. Barney's squadron elcjped
• they yere pursued, but not one of the Engtith fii.ps
could fail with them—After two days th« chafe was
given over as fruitlefs. Barney's Clips, the letter adds,
fail beyond all example. 1
Extra# of a letter from an Officer on board Commo
dore Barney's (hip, dated at Sea, jo Frudlidor,
(Sept. 1.)
" Steering for the Chefapea]te, and having hove too
at midnight, in fight of the light off Cape Henry, we
discovered at a small diilance live large veflels, which 1
appeared to be formed in a lm-, and which appeared 1
to us rather fijfpiclou?. We mide fail to thfe ealtward, •
and at day-light we fawaftern of ,us, x (ingle friga e, ;
which we chafed ; but dire<f\ly, we difcqvered 5 other
vestels, which were steering for us, and to which the '
frigate that we were chacing made repeated signals,— '
feeing luch a iuperior force, we were obliged to aban- 1
don the transport Elizabeth, that ftiled very bad—we i
were cb«e«d w# saw her taken possession |
of at 50 clock, P.M. They continued to chace'us
during twenty-four hours, but our failing so well sa
ved us. One Englilh frigate was enabled to keep way
with us, but she prudently did not seem to wist ha
zarding coming along fide of either of »s,andfte has
to th,mk the two ships of the line who were with h»r, 1
for her fafety—We have loft a velTel not much to be '
regretted. Gas?. I
New-York, September 13. '
Capt. Angelo, of the ship Hope, arrived on Sunday '
In 39 days from Madeira, dined on board Capt. Bar- 1
ney, arid prelented him with a caflt of limes, on the
3d d?.y of September, at 5, A. M. being 40 leagues 1
TJ.'N. E. of Bermuda. Captain ftip wa» the
Harmony, only one other was in company.
The following extract from Beaumont'* travels j
through the Rhstian Alps,is the more inteieftiug,
as Tyrol is probably in a considerable degt.ee the
theatre of war.
" The Tyrolefe in general, as well at mod of .
the inhabitants of the Alps, are not opulent, yet j
there are scarcely any poor among them. I have
travelled through several of their vallies, which ex
tend upwards of ten miles, and have not found tbt
leafl appearan&eof wrctcheSneft. Each individual J
cultivates his own land j and when that is not fuffi j.
ent for the maintenance of his family, he has re
cotirfe to that industry and a&iyity natural to them
all; and endeavors to procure work in the mines,
or different manufactories': if not fuccefsftil, they
juit 1 ytol in the quality of Hawkers, and convey 1
jnto other countries the produce of their own. 1
Such are the little pleasurable barters of ljfe, when
life is governed by fimpliciiy alone, and the eftima
tion in which objeifts are held is only proportioned '
to their real utility. c
" he 1 yrolefe are tall, flrong and robust, as '
mountaineers are in general—remarkable for chear-
fulne ?, with great mildness and honesty of cha c
rafter:, but keen with an uncommon (hate of un
derftanding. They all Roman Catholics, ajd 1
extremely devout, placing not only :n the roads . j
but on their habitations, a number of images ac- '
cording, to tbe forms of their religion ; jet the ge 1
nerality of them are not bigots, for they rppcar to
tftecm indiscriminately all ftrangcfj who visit them, '
without attending to their different opinions pn rr '
Kgion—like most mountaineers, they are particu- '
larlyattached to their prince and to their cotlntry. '
Happy people, your morals are as ptire at your c
ideas are innocent t 1
"I" ihort, whether we consider the inhabitants *
of these haj py regions, or the 'country it fell, a '
tiavelle* will not find it easy perhaps to visit any '
spot where, more circumttances concur to gratify a 1
a love of natural history, to enlarge the mind, or '
to interest the feelingc.
» r w. ' <
Fekho, {
that Poor Rich art? t grand child puMiffied I
"" yeflerday morning, signed Peter Porcupine.
ir, inform your readers, that this wayward 1
from old lightening-rpd never publifijed an
fement for me, and never will.
I am, 1
Your mast humble, and
-Obedient Servant.
Peter PoßCtmwf.
fhiladclpl a, Sept. J4, 1796.
Frarp the American Daily Advcrlifer,
MtfTrs. Claypoole, * 1
! ob:™ved in your paper of to day, under the ;
Boston hean.a pa agraph ,which mentions the do- ;
rniions of Eiias H. Derby, Esq. of Salem, to the '
Mufeam of Dartmouth College. The conclusion of 1
that paragraph pleases me, especially as I have re
etivedat (urdry times, valuable articles of natural' 1
history from Mr. Derby. The public may now be
gratin*d in feeing, jn the enclosure adjoining my
mtifeum, a live (heep from Rullla, with four horns,
wuich I have just rec*H*cd fropi that gentleman.—
Anindividual v.'ith fmajl pecuniary advantages, how
ever industrious he may be,can (alonej do but little
towards furnifiung fubje&s of natural'hiftory for a I
rameutn ; but, aided by ct rr.mercial gentlemen, and
ovhur amateurs of this fcift'te, tuuchi ve- I
ft
ajjH
ven; much may be cfT&ed towards etlaWifcing *r 1
ufeful repository. Here permit me, thro' your 1
paper, to present my grateful thanks to those' ge
erom donors, who have fupplieci my museum with t
many valuable articles from every quarter of the 1
globe, by the arrangement of which I promise, or
A lead hope, to render them ufeful to the public, and [
tn« meaas of diiTufing general knowledge.
C. W. PEALE.
September 13, 1796.
1 ——immumu..-
BY THIS DAY'S MAfL. i
"" NEWBURY-PO R.T, Sep'ember 8. 1
j Br THE COMMITTEE OF HEALTH.
Since oyr la(i of Monday the yth inft. only ome
. has died of a malignant ferer, in this towe, 1
: one of a consumption.
r Two only are now Cck with the above fever.
From the above ftatement,the public may judge
of the present appearance for themfclvrs.
Newbury Port, Sept. 7.
BOSTON, S«ptember 6. t
DIED, i
? On Wedncfday morning, at the Jioufe of her t
son, James Apthorp, Esquire, at Quincy, Madam r
t Grizzbl Apthorp, in the 88th year of her age, f
t widow of the late Charles Apthorp, Esquire, a very <
eminent merchant in this town. In furvcying the <•
draught of this virtuous and amiable character, pi- t
ety appears without its kindred (hade,aufterity c
' tity,unalloyed by ostentation and the devotion of the i
3 .cloilter, blended with the grace and manners of the ?
e world. .So excep'ionable was her,deportment in
1 every relation of life, though Ihe remained near a
1 century upon its theatre, and passed through the
» successive empires of beauty and fortune, envy ne- '
'ver dared to utter a lisp, or slander to forge a dart
[ against her fame. Ai a daughter of virtue, <h<t re- '
ceivsd from heaven its promised blefling, length of '
. days; from the earth, the blefiing of her who was
: ready to perish, with none to help her, canae upon
1 her.
fv T EW.YORK, September 13. r
CURAC O A. f
Considerable anxiety prevailed yeflerday in con- f
sequence of accounts rece'ved from this llland, by 1
. the brig Calliope, slating that very great -diliur- e
bances exifled there—that there had been an irifur- 1
reftion of the blacks—and that every thing had
r been left ia a stale of the'utinoft confuhon ar.d dif- r
tress.. . t
■ We have however been favoured with a copy of a 1
' letter from a gentleman of charatler in Curacoa, 0
to a very refpetta'ule house in this city, written cn e
the atteinoon on which the vefiel failed, which hap- c
pily removes the impressions firll made by tbe above 3
' intelligence. /,
It appears that the disputes, said to have oecafi- '
oned the dillurbance, oiiginated in an oppolition '
by manyj of the garrison tllablilhtd tu Curacoa t
against the haw order of things as lately adopted i& *
Holland j and a refufal of the officers to take the
neccffaiy oaths, Sic, as required by orders tranf- 4
mitted by the Dutch admiral Van JSraack, from 11
Surinam. These differeiicesj amosgit the whites c
had excited fotne alarming appearances amotig tht a
blacks i which however had ulfo fublided.
ji
THE JOLI-QWING IS THE LETTER ALLUDED TO.
Curacoa, Augujl 1796.
" There has been so much contuliori in ttiih 111- x
and for some dayipalt in conleqnence of a cuange
of government, that I have not had time to write '
you. I this morning had determined to go to 1
PuetCa Cabello for a few weeks, till order >vas res- '
Itored, and requelted Mr. to makei yoi«^tc
quainted with my intention. I have now the pie.i *
! lure to inform you that affairs wear a more tasouia
ble alpeft, and that there is every profpe&ot tran
quillity being restored to the liland, in a day or
(wo, under the new constitution ot Holland. Tbe j
vessel is this moment going out, and I have only .
, time to inform you that I (hall not leave the iflanti '
for the present, ?xcept affairs take an unfavourable j
turn,"
The brig Calliope, Capt. Leonard, arrived yes- j
terday in 28 days from Curacoa, brings accounts,
ttiai, on the l?th of Augult, admiral Braack, com
mander of the Dutch fleet in iiurinam, had lent 01-
tisrg to the governor of to oblige the offi.
. ieere, laiiois, and (oldiers of the garrison and fleet in
that island, to strike the Qrange flag and cockade,
and lwear to support the New Bjitavian conflttuti
(on ; that the major part of the officers'and crews '
, ot the frigates Medea, of 4© guns, and '.he Ceres,
t of 36, declared they would lupport the Orange flag,
, and were in confequejice paid off and sent on Ihore ; 1
and that the greater part of the garrison, thro' the '
influence cf money, and the burgomalteis, were in- ,
' duced to enlili under the new banners 1 in confe
quense of which great tumult and confi»lion ejuited
I there.
Seven officers of the garrison opposed to the
1 new constitution,came paflengers in the Calliope.
! We hear from unqiieftionable authority, that two
perio s ate apprehended at New Field on suspicion
of being guilty of the horrid' a£U of murdering a
defenceleis boy, and robbing and setting fire to the
store in that place, as mentioned in our paper of
yelterday.
CHARLESTON, August 24.
On Sunday la(t, being in lal. 30, 27, long. 78, i
}\, (about 100 milc3' east by louth of out bar)
Captain Hunter was brought to by a French sri- '
? gate, two others being in fight s—Captain Huhter j
- and two paflengers were on board the frigate ;he '
: was informed that they ccmpufed a squadron undej
f the command of Captain Barney. When Captain j
Hunter saw them lad, they were (landing to the
1' northward.
: August 2J.
r Yeflerday anchored at Fort Johnson, the corvette 1
, of tHe Frcnch republic Le Brutus, captain Songc.
- 31 days from the city ot St. Domipgo, Hifpaniola. |
- During her eruife in tije Weft-Indian fcas, ihiscor
: vette captured valuable prizes, which were ,
1 sent into that island. 1
I The following sums have been paid to Bilhop ,
Stajth, treasurer of the fpccial committee for the
relief of the fufierers by iht fire of the i«h Tune # 5
lift. J 1
From the citizens of Baltimore, by Mcffrs. PrriT n
man and Ca'houn—four thousand five hundred and tl
seventy-nine dollars, seventy three cents. tl
From Mi. John Vaughan, merchant of Philadel- ol
phis, by Mr. JamesTheus —two hundred sollars. ir
From , by general Pinckiiny—three hun-' rr
died dollars. 1 '
Augull 28.
■ Twelve hundred dollars, being thefutn eolleited S
in the city of Savannah, for the relief of the fuf gi
ferera by fire in this city, have been paid to the ai
chairman of the fub-ccirmittee appointed to diflti di
butc donations received from out filler lUtes.
Auguil sg. S
The French coriair. General Latin.*, anchored »
ycrterdayat Fort Johnfos>, froraa cruise. Q
" A
LONDON, July n: L
RUSSIAN TROOPS.
We have the foll»winp important intelligence di
from Peterfturgh by the lift mail; «* More of our m
troops are on their way to Persia. Their Cbjeft,
it is said, is to put the Saltan Schah Nadir upo& S(
the throne, while j6,000 of her torces are encamped B
near Derbent, upon the Czfpian Sua, another corps m
of 4.0,000 are to march towards Asiatic Turkey, w
General Suwarrow has only to pass to tie left {hore m
of the Dniester, and enter Moldavia to cotnmence B
hoftiiities. All these interciling prepsratio •• have
cauGjd our Court to suspend, il not abandon, the di
idea of fending 40,000 men down to the Rhine, to fr
aft against <hc French 1" w
KINGSTON (Jamaica) August I*6.
The Two Friends, Milberry. from Newbury- ,j|
Port, touched at St. Marc, where a flag.of Truce V
had arrived from Gonaive, with a very extraordi- n«
naiy demand of an immediate furiender to the h<
French arms, antjube threat of an attack on every gr
B'itifh ports by 30,000 men.
Ihe Cormorant on the 27th'left tjhe fleet ail well, di
about 200 fail, Negril Point bearing E. N. E. di ye
(lant five leagues, nnd then cruised as far round jbe in
north fide as Green Ifiand, off which place Hie E
picked iip a Mr. who had been on board a te
fmali veffe! belonging to Mr. Duncan, Esq. of g
tego Bay, which foundered the gicrniog of the pi
day before—*He ivas en a plank, and had been in f r
the water 27 v ;
The day the Cormorant left the fleet, the Cora
modore hoisted a fignalfcr all captains to repair en ci
board the Intrepid, for the purpose of informing m
them of a refoluiion he had come to, of taking g
out allfeair.en going home on runs, which were so J 0
enormous when the fleet left this port, putting them
on board the men of war, and re-placing them by tl
an equal number from the men of wars crews at
/,. 3 : to: o per month.—A nan was to be taker. t l
trom every vcflel that could fp#>e it, for the Mala- Q
bsiTndiem?*, /which was so weakly manned, that
they rouM not wsijjh their anchor, but vvereforceo tl
to cat their cable.
It is repotted by the arrivula from thtMclc, that f c
*J1 the French frigates ha-.e left Cape-Francois, and ,
have proceeded, as ij fuppoftd, to America, ii £
order to vufivoy a flcci with provt&ons to St. Do
' a ,
On Sirurday lall were to fsil from Cape Nichola
' :e, {via Majefly's fhipa Leviathan, Hannibal, [y
Canada and $amfon, on a feoret expedition ; they I
- took on b<.i»rd aboqt 400 stand of (mall arms each. '
Several Arv-li.-3.tt capiains artived at the Mole j;
mention, that in the windward paffagc, they fell
in with finer 74's arid .three frigates, wl/ofe failing j
from Cnpe-Frjwicnis was confirmed by a cartel thaj
arrived at the Mole. It conje&ufed. they
would g-> through tne Old Bahama Streight# foi j (
the Havaonah.
It appeais that Geseral Forbes ha 3 received a t(
deputation from one of the diflri&s in the Spanish
part of St. Domirgo, avowing a determined aver
lion to filfirm't to the claims of the French Com- c
miffior.crj) For territorial pofi'eflion, anfl offering to
place themfdves tinder Biitilh protcftion. The
four (hips of the line that w#re to fail last weeTt
from St. Niebola-Mole, with a large quantity of
fmal! arms, vere. It is supposed, intended for Monte
Chriftt, to.carry i .to effeift some of the proposi
tions oiade by theSpanifli deputies;
GAZirtE OP THE VNITEB STjtTSS SJARINE LIST
P H 1 i Ai> f. LP H i A, September 14,
AIUUVfD.
Days
Brtg fo"er, Harannah 19
Schr. Virginia & Philadelphia Pasket, Hallet, Nor
folk 4
Sleep Polly, Gilford, Rhode.Tlland 8
Jnmes, Duncan. New-Providence 14 -
Harriett, Dennis, St. Mary's 18
Sopoia, Eaiey, Saybrook fa
i CLEARED. r
Schr. Ann, Brown, " Hifpaniola <
, Polly, Eldridge, PortUnd r
Motly, Miller, Salem I
Sloop Planter, Hammond, New-Providence
1 si 1 rived at tlx Fori.
The Schooner Me lona, Burnett, St. Thomas,
The ship Richmond, which was lately carried into
Martinique, has been liberated, and is arrived in the (
river—also a brig name unknown. t
August 6, Captain Miller of the (hip Prudence fell I
, in with the mediterranean fleet bound to London, eon. 1
voyed by a9B gun ship and a 64 —two 40V and four 1
frigates, irth, fpoke'ihip Elizabeth, Bray, of Philadel
phia from-Prahceto North Carolina, out 11 days. Ihe
brig Commerce to Nantz from New-York out 13 days.
26th, brig Molly, from Philadelphia to
Bordeaux, out 20 days. Brig Nymph, .Webb, from do. 1
1 to 3ordeaux, 20 days.
Ext rat', of a letter from an eminent baufe in Lisbon to
a merchant in this Ci;y, dated July 23.
" This court has laid an embargo on the Dutch 1
' (hips and forbid all intercourse with the states of
■ Holland—a rupture rot in the least er.pefted. Em- <
■ bafiies are fending to London* Madrid, 'and Paris, 1
and a severe press is making for the army which in- 1
■ dicates a rupture with Spain ;it is hoped these hof- ]
tile appearances will fubiide as loon as an explanati
» on takes place, thro' the intervention of the iLn- 1
'TV'" ' I
e« I?.A Portugaefe paStsgcr in tlu -last wivnl. /Votn ' .
Lisbon, inform?, tHat thr French gnvtri rr r bas
made a requibtiori on the i ourt of Purliig'i, that
d they should pay twenty millions of crow. g", and fhu*.
their ports againit the Britifb—a d tinea er> in . ..fc
l- of tion complianceto march 50.5C0 men th' ' Sp.iin
into Portugal. This may account for the above
■' meafur.-s.
Boston, . c eptem'i*r C.
Arrived fchr, Nancy. Stun.-, Li:b +t! iays,
1 Sailed in co. with rapt. Cat heart liberatedhom Al
giers, for PoilaiUlphia. Left the e fliip A icniurp
e and brig Polly ot tiolton ; and a capt Gr«hain of
do.
Ship Polly, Lamber;, B urcleatfx, 56, dnys.—»
Ship Adventure ot Button* had lailed ror DuUjiy
J a few days before. Parted co. with Ihip Charielt >r,
Oliver, from Russia, sot off Cape Sables.
August 24., lpokea (hip of Wilcafl'et, from Liver*
pool ior Bolton. On the banks spoke a brig Jic.ru
L stum for Salem.
, Sept. 8. Arrived fchr. Nancy, Mackay, Bour.
t deaux, ft days. Ths captain relates to us nothing
r new.
, Brig Hannak, Spinger, Liverpool, $<5 da*s.
• Sept. i, W. of Newfoundland, fp-ke a fliip, capt.
1 B.tora, from Petcpi fl>urg for Salem. IheAlkco
s mack, Tucker, left Liverpool for Motion, soUs
. weeks beforethe Hannah. The Commerce, Dela
: no was burnt in Liverpool, July 14. The UtiigUr,
1 Bridges, wji to be the next ve'ffel tor this port,
: Ship Charleston, Oliver, Russia, $0 days. Tin
: days since, '{poke fliip' Lady Walhingtou, 56 day*
> from Liverpool for Philadelphia, On the paflage
was boarded bjr fevcral Briti'fh cruizers anj treated
well, in the bay was boarded from La Raifon.
Ship Qutrara, Weld, London, 64 days. Aug.
• 18, long. 38; spoke brig Polly, ot' Portland, ffcm
: Virginia for London. Ang. *I, spoke brig Han»
• nah of Bolton, from Bremen, 3$ days out. bound
• home. The brig Polly and Bet ley, of Salem had
' arri/ed at Hamburgh.
Ship Federal Cftorge, capt. Daniel Defton,
1 days irom St. Übes. Left there tile following
veuels, (hip Mary, Hufley of Portland was to fail
- in 10 days for Portlands (hip Sarah, of Boston',
: et » bound for the Bay ot Biscay j snow Pat»
1 tern, H. W. 8001, from Amlterdaoi, bound for
■ Boston, put into St. Übes, for more ballalt and
■ ptoyifions after being out 38 days; brig Sterling
1 from Guercfcy, capt. Foftei j brig Sally of Pro*
vidence, capt. — j and a number of other*
' belonging to the Southern Itates ; the Lhr. Polly",
1 capt. Stoddard, and the fchr. Mermaid, capt. Ko-
I mer, failed five days before thf federal George,for
! Bolton." Spoke Augult lit, in lat. 44, 30, and
' long. 41, the (hip Swan wick, capt. Delano, frota
' Liverpool bound for Philadelphia ; left L' ver P»ol
the 15th July. ■
Aug. ad, in lat. 44, oo> 3»d long. 49, spoke
■ the (hip Aurora, capt. Jones, of New-York irofij
Bremen, bound for Baltitaore, 7 wesks o«t.
Aug. 21, in lat. 42, 45, and long. 53, 30, spoke
> the (hip Riling Sud, ot New-York, from A under
dam 43 Spoke capt. Davidfon, bound
1 for J«Jew York. Aug. 27, lat. 43, 00, and long.
' 35, O©, spoke brig Fanny, capt. Smith from $*•
lem, bound for Bourdeaux, al! well on board.
Seven hundred and jtwenty letters were delivered
at the Post QE&cc lalt evening fioro the Outram.
Pafiengeis in the Ottratn—Mrs. Ireland & for.
' Mr. Mr. Doiby Robins,, Captain Samuel
Prince, Mr. is, ahd Captain Cloutruan.
PafTenger in the Charjeiion, from Ruflja.—John
- Rufiel, £f<j.
1 Baitimo&s, September 7.
k ' Extratt frem '.He Log Book of the (hip Monte*
zuma.
y The Montezuma faiieU in company with the fey
1 lowing veflels.
■Ships Charleston, for Baltimore ; Henry, Stan.
® ton, for Alexandria 5 Indian Chief, Skinner for Ma.
dtiraar.d ; Tammany, Ward, of Ncsf
York, for Liverpool ; brig Harmony, , for
Savannah.
Pnffengcri in ti; Cbarltjlen.
' Rev Mr. Lcgh Hofkins Mailer, and family. .
k t Mifa Shelly,
Miss Chapel,
e Mt. A. Fulton,
'• JMr. T. Fulford,
Mr. J. Odier,
Mr. T. Hatris,
Mailers Duncan and White, sail
Mr. T. Fi(her.
- —,
FOR SALE.
TORT WINE, and
r S HOLXAKO GIN, of the firft tjatlities in Pipes.
a FRAUNC£S> and VAN REED,
Brokers and CammifTion Merchants,N«. 6j, So. jd St.
Who difeount approved NOTES of haad.
I N. B. An APPRENTICfi Waated.
September 14. * <4K J
I WA NT ED,
10 A Middle-Aged WOMAN, wiio can be well recom»
merded, to take charge of the entire management of
la children—Such a perfou will meet with suitable encou
id ragement, and may hear of a place, by applying to the
xi printer of this Gazette.
:e Sept. 14. mwf
- WAN TED, '
Pbr any tc, m from one It four years,
•° A HOUSE, pleat'antly lituated in any of tbe principal
le streets within the pavement, and riot very dillant fionn
the State-House, capable of accommodating a small fami-
II ly ; the houle must have and coach-hout'e, and
n. would be required to be ready by the firft week in No
ir vember next—£u%uirc of the printer.
■I- Sept. 14. ttf
] c _ A Single Woman,
to a good charader/that would take part ol a small
o. House, may hear of one by aj plymg at No. aio, North
Front-ftrett. Sept. 14. dj
"> Mr. Francis, ""
[Of the New Theatre)
• ' | 'AKES this opportunity of returning.thanks to his
of X scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
n- on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
s> demy for danci.ig, upon a plan entirety new. He'
n . flatters bimfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any pr«mifes of conducing his future
. (themes on the molt liberal and flrideft terms, of pro- '
l " pricty, totally unnccclTary.
n " N. 11. Private tuitior.'is usual.
\ J un? 3 law~ r I
* •- *4u. a • h ■
inry of -the United States.
\TO i ICE k her.eby.given to ill persons who are or I Ae Uni ,
i N tray be Creditors of the United States, for any sums I rc ,
'pi th« Fundrd Dcit,or Ststi, burin! a frtfmt inicreji «//* I l, B i
'fr c-:.tum per annum. . J_ J cclpt To
:ft, That pursuant to an Ait of Congress passed on the J j£ an y p
iSth day of April, 1796, intitlei'.an a<ft ill addition to an I p Urc h a {
■<&, intituled " An aft making further prevision for the firft mo
lupport of public credit, and for the redemption of ! e I jedufti
puMic (leUthe faiddeht or stock will be reirtiburfed an 1 j 4al
p'.iid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividen s j nietliatt
" 'a be made on the last days of March, June and Septem- <3;
- ber for the present year, and from the year or.ethoufancl I
1 seven hundred and *tnety-feven, to the year one thou- I
" r.nd eight hundred & eighteen inclufiye.at the rate et I
' one and one half per centum ftpon the original capital. I
1 Seiondly, by dividends to be made op the lalt aay 01 I - it
1 December for the present year, and from the year one | -
'.thoufar.d seven hundred and the year I 0, /
1 tßoufand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at 1 0 J ,
tjfe rate of three and one half per centam upon the on- 1 t J, (
" t;inal capital; and by a dividend t» be ma le oa the lal I _
" liy of December, in the yrar one thousand eight hun- I
" '1 red and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then afle* 1 h
' qaatc, according to the contrad, for the final redemp- I v
'' tuin of the said fro A." J
ad. All diftin£tion between payments on account ot I ,
/nt'refl an<J Principal thus abolifhedby the euablifh-j -
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abova de- I :
foribed.it has btSome necessary to vary accordingly the I j|
rowers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public I 2
creditors will therefore observe that the following form I 2
iseftablifhedfor all powers of attorney which may be 3
granted after (he due promulgation ot this notice, viz. 1 ,
KNOIV ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that 35
/ '/ '"I 4
do make, confitute and appoint I j
0 j my true and lawful At- f
iarney,for me y and in my name, to receive the dividends u'b cb are, J
or (hall be payable actordtng to law, on the (here defcribingt e j ,
tlock) flanding in my name in the booh of (here defer iblllg te I ,
books of the Treasury or the Commiluoner of Ldairs,
where the Hock is credited) from (here mfert the com-
xnencement and expiration of time for which the power o |
attorney is to continue-) Iwith power also an attorney or attor~ I
itics under him, for that furpofe to make andfuhjlitute, and to do a j
lawful «£ls requifitefor ejjft&ing tbepremifes, hereby ratifying and J 3
confirming all that my said Attorney or bis fuhjlitute yfiall lau)ful- I 4
ly do y by virtue Jyereof \ . I
In IVitnefs hereof T I hxvd hereunto set my Hand and Seal the
day of in the year
Sealed and Delivered
in I 1 *
BE rt KNO Wsr % that on tie i*y Of
(fare me personally came I
within named and acknowledged the above letter cf attorney to be j
}is s& and deed, I
In teflimany whereof I have hereunto set my Hand and affix*
ed • Seal the day andyear la(I a for (said.
&iyen under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of JuJy pursuant to dire&i«ns
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
1 reafurer of the United States.
■JulyTU&stlJ.
Samuel Richardet,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia. V
The Subfcrjftion Room will be furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bol
ton, Paltimore, together with tfio.c of the principal com- 1
mereial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety j
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choiccft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder >vill be ftipplied with the prime and earliest
produ&ions of the Season.
Large and small Farties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Supper», at
hours mod convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms wil! be completely furniftied, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanlinefi, and every other
Xequifite.
£jT StMoit Richardet will be happy to receive, and
txecute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude lor their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing em his part {hall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with whieh he has been so diftinguifh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. tnwf
- i- ... — 1 1 ' '
INFORMATION
TS given daily of the drawing of tbe WASHINGTON
1 LOTTERY, at the Office
No. 147 Cheftrut-Jireet,
■between Fourth and Fifth ftrests. Also, where Tickets
may yet be had. Sept. 9. eo
0" The Eiglfceenth and Nineteenth Days drawing is
arrived.
Lands of the United States
Treasury Department, -Augujl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN purfuarlre of an aft of Congress, palled on the xßth
dav cf May, 1796, entitled " An ait providing " for
thefal'e of the lands qf the United States, in the Territo
ry north Weft of the river Ohio, and above the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the feftioni or lots of land descri
bed in the annexed fchedule,lying in the seven ranges of
townships, which 'were furveyedin purfaance of an ordi
nance of Congrefs,pafed on ttle twentieth day of May,
in the year one thouftnd seven hundred and eighty-five,
will be expol'cd for sale at Public vendue, in the town ot
Vittfmirgh m Pennsylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
Oiftobernext, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the fir 3; day of December ensuing, ur.lcfs the Jaid lots (hall
>ie foouer fold j in the manner, and ou the terms and con.
ditions herein after mentioned, to wit i
ift. The said foSions or lots lhall be fold under the di
rtiSion ef the Governor or Secretary of the Western Ter
ritory, and such person as the PreCdent of the United
i'ttte* may specially appoint for that purpose.
31}. The said fecSions or lots fnall be fold to the highest
;4ifer,b\it no sale can be made for lei's than two dollars
r acre of the of land contained iu such lot or
'eflion.
3. The highest bidder as before mentioned, tr.uft depo
. t at the time of sale, one twentieth part of the purcliafe
—.oncjf.isithe hands of fnch person asthe President of the
"Vtitfd States lhall appoint to attend the sales for that pur
• fu, which will be forfeited, if a moiety of the sum bid,
the said twentieth parr, fliall not be paid within
' rtydays from tbltirr.eof sale.
/,'h. Upon payment of a moiety of the purchase money
in the manner before mentioned, the pUrchafcr wi'l he
• utitled to "or.e yer.r s credit for the remaining moiety ;
; .:ii lhall receive from she Governor ar Secretary of tbe
."cfccrri Territory, and the person who fnall he appointed
v the President of the United States, to dircA the salts.a
■ ttifirite describing tliG lot or f-i&ion purchased.and de
■l: rr- thefum paid on account, the balance remaining due,
■:.e tirre vrfcer. Inch balance becomes payable, and that
. whole lirvi tlv-T"'- irent toned ,wi!l he forfeited, if the
Watiee is not then paid ; L j
Pu
1 ce'pt for such balance endorsed upoa the « rt,hc " • f ,
if any purchaser (hall make payment of the whole of I
purchase money, at the time when the payment of the | (
firft moiety is direSed to be made, he will be entitled hefa i e c
ddXnlf ten per centum on the part orwhichacrt;
dit i,authorized to be given; and hi. patent lhall be «m Kentnci
HoKi USt
'•« * b °« OLIVER WOLCOTT, *
Secretary of the Treasury ' w ;
:| . .he Mei
. Schedule of feßions of townships, or
I oftowiffipt, ,0 be fold at Putfbnr S h, until
: Of the 6th feaion of an aft of Congress, paff«l on
"I the lSth day of May, i 79 J *
- I _ — ' —————
" I % 0 dollars
3 i „• J j % t SJv
V 5; ft S 8 ® < 8 l & -
j • < O o" 5 H ° M Dofit s
f I 2 Z ■ I- 7 Chafer
- 6tk 6thJ«A»oL SUtes,
ift Bax»6 4 oleach iftToWnfliip-
c 2 8 565 14 640 17 3»° 3d.
n 29 156 9J 17320 640 each 18 iio , neyin
c | 30 75 15 aj6 6a° ea<;h 11 be £nt
34 1,40 90 BthTownlhip. 24 i 65 40 an rf a,
'.'l 35336 640 each 3114 64o]each i } 427 ship pi
"I id Townlhip i7aao 6 4 oJeaeh *4 640 the ta
19 140 13 640 17 r?i 80 becotr
20 170 7© 25330 6 48330 649 eac " tioned
'• I 21 185 33a36,640!eacji 33 <2 paid;
ie 22 230 iftthTownlhip. 34336 640 each payinj
le 25 488 80 134 64o|each ad Townftup* thepi:
' ' I 26347 640 each 5 314640 each r ij6 fliall I
| *48 560 17340640 each 4 440 dacm|
I 49 551 60 13336)640!eack 3 44S cndor
U 3 o 564 I 2tWTown(hip. 4 456 . 8
id\ 31.436 640 e3ch ial 4 64ofcach 5 464 tinte
■l.\ 4thTownfhip. 17a40 [ 64ok:arh 6 474 e
19 64 23a36j64o!each 7 340
u\ »5 640 ,ti, 8314 640 each 6 ,ven
5 3 1l 60 l'a36 64oeaci
3 1334 640 each * 3d Tovnlhip.
33 616 30 540 1 47 °
34, 445 hl , * 47«
35 j/ #j6 54 J„ c h 3 486
3 t 4dTown(hip. \ 494 OfQ
sthTowlifh:p. 6o 5 JC4 fuanc
6 139 *0 3a6 640 each 6 { I0 „ rh
14 479 30 , 1Q 7ai4 640 esch ___
,ns 17 304 15 I , 17340 640 each
18 fi 3 8 I® 9312640 each
43 450 75 1, s(hTownlhip. -
24 6 r m & 1 si ii f
»«4 17*20 640 eich 3 5»6
3° 40 a 23336 649 each 3 534
35 3» 80 ow 4 n(hip . .4 540 t
» n 3 't= 1,314(640 each 1 54 . 6
ry sd Range. 17320 64o.each , ea .j. Z
the iftTowrfhip. 4 3 a361640!each J J each
48 740 sthTownft.p. ach 1
the 34 16| 5.® each { 3 h f ow 4 n(hip> 2
lo f. 3d Townlhip. r7a2d64o|each "
, m . 44346 640 each 433361640 each 1 5
led 48 499 16 7thTownfhip. ",
29 640 134 6 4 d|each[ 3 5 7
ety 31333 6 4 o|eich 537 640 eaihl 4 J J
its, 4thTownlh!|). i 4 3y j. 3
xi 46 40 18319 646 each , .
14 397 5° 45 640' 7 ai4 640 each
•oft 13 30336 640 each *7*40 640 each
ies. t ] l 7 50 9 thTownlhip. *3»3* 640 each
icft 16 459 « I3X4|64oleach 9thTownih ip .
,7 i»4 17340 6 4 3 each lal4^K
'»« x 8 640 43336 6 4 de3ch r '"^ 4oe4^
' 19 635 nth Townlhip. *3 '3 40
?'? ao 584 80 i3X4|<4o'each "'hTownlhip.
had »x 636 4, ,7320 6 4 o!e3ch " C i
, 4ia3664oeash 43a36!640 ! each I7 al °
f sthT» wnfhip. ijthTownfhip. 4 3*3«6 4 0«ch
ther 5 636 I i3i 4 ]&4o]each tS^Townlh.p.
j 6a7 64c each 173201640 each i»I4 J4^| ea< -h
Cat 13a3616^ iCh IS^bleach
f:: 34339 64c each t" AN l E - <sthTownfcip.
ift. ylhTownlhip. xaf 4 |6 4 oe3ch
l 6 1 v 18 474 40 173201640 each
gthTownfhip " 8 ' 1® i3 a
las 640e3ch *3 427 5° 7th RanOE.
6 44C , It 70 «ft Townlhip.
73 14 6 4 ocsch ' 30 1 41 40 4
0N i7a2o6 4 oeacfi J 4 ,6 1132150
6^each ad Townlhip.
9 thTo wnfhip. 1;
:kets V 6 640 31 I« o 3
g° i, BHI 30 64c each 5 a 6- 64c each
13314 64c each 10312 64c esch I
~~ 19320 640 esch _ 14 30
s 43336 640 each 3 430 i 7 aiß 64oe3ch
5. 3d RA~GE. 5 456
4d Townlhip. 6 464 80 J0 4 9"
» x 5 640 7 45c 43324 640 each
f ßth 16 6co 8 618 *5 } 8c ,
~ or ao 557 50 941464 c each
2ia22 640 eacb 17 aao|64C each 4 t hTownfnip.
iZ J 3 609 231361640 each i«4|6 4 oeach
„f 15336 64oeach 4th Townlhip. 1y340 640 each
ordi- 3d Townlhip. 1314 640 each 4 r?.
Viav 9 188 60 17320 64°e3ch 6thTownlhip.
-fivl; 10 344 43136 6 4 o,each
n ot " 267 6thTown(hip. 17»*0|640 eadh
yof 1* 15» 1 a'l4 64o|each *3 a 3' 64°|". ch
until 14 20250 17320640 each »thl own!h;p.
\ shall 15 630 64c|each lai each
con. x6aiß 640 each BthTownftjip. I 7^ 2c each
19 217 50 xai4|64oleath | 2 3 a 36|640 each
ie di- so 616 75 I7a2c«64c|eacli UothTownlaip.
1 Ter- 41336 64®Uach I3a36i646|each 1 64c
hiited jjthTownlhip. xothTownlhip. r 7 a 4o 640 each
1 170 iai4|64oteach 43336 640 each
'igheft 2 - 44 173201640 each "thTownlhip.
iollars 3 310 43a 1 6|5401e3ch lal 4 6 4 c.e3ch
lot or 4 4JO nth Townlhip- I7 a 4c 6 4 ceach
, 5 120 iai4)64cleach 43336 6 4 c[each
d ®P°" 6 f 640 1734 c 64oleach i4thTow«fcip. j
"ofthe 7 ' 56 3 * .*3 a 36|64o|each lal # 4 oeach
* Ba 9 64c each'i 4 thTownfhip. *73201640 each
imbid ' 4C 80 I at4ls 4 oieach z 3 64c each
within 11 I*9 7° 1 7a20 64oleach i'thTownlhip.
1431464 c each 43336»640jeach iai4 64oleach
money 1 7**01640 each ; 17a40 640|each
vi'l -be *3 a 36\6 4 0 each 1 23336 6 4 o|each
«>iety ; NOT£.
r THE T ,ami J tles 01 Lands in the s Ever al townlhips be.
fides a otSw ' r° f the Lots rcfervcd b V th =
Un ted .States and also of those formerly fold -The ag.
ne ( ,t" V , seVeral "wofhips- „ r fraflional
S th« IT L tOWno,, . P . s ' ve be . e " "feertained by aflual fur
4if the hrL 5 „ , < l uiintlt r l " m lots or fedions, have
4, i. the been no ptherwifeafcertauied than bv calculation. {
.
Lands of the United Skim.
Treafcy |
i PubUc Notice i s hereby f Jve SiSt . -
©W'3!TS-"«SS« I
Aefale of the Land* of the thc mo.tft of Z
north-weft of iarter Towisthips of land
Kentucky river, tnat i ■<. I'frg in the seven rang- _
delcribed in the in purfaance of an j
aot towßfhtps wh.eh W J the twen ticth day of
ordinance of Congr >j\ ,j- n hundred and eighty-
May, in reBIJC.-VENDUE, at
j five, will he expo t • oft the 4'h
J .he Merchants Coffee-H f d frpm day today,
day of O f , id
■■
I v Jt SV«;V'""£Ca [ ta b wflta ~
: -— * *
*r r"pS:
. 2£^Ti«>A.^^/^sSas£
- States, which will be id withl „
including the said twentieth.part, tyU not do p
thirty days from thet.me of iale porchafc . m ».
"■ ■>? »m
r e V„^ed t o ohc year's credit for the remaining motety ;
»nd fliall receive a certificate describing the quarts towrt-
Sint«-
(hall be entitled to a patent for ctte said land on his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for fueli glance,
endorsed upon the certificate. But if any purchaser fall
make payment of the whole of the pur th<:
dnle wh"n thc payment of the firft moi«y is direded to.
be made, he will be entitled to a deduction of ten per ,
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to be
I eiven ; and his patent Ihall be immediately lflued.
1 GIVEN under my hand at Philadelphia, tho day
1 and ye" abovomentio/ied. •
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
I SCHEDULE
I Of Quarter-T ownftiips to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
fuanee of the 6th fedion of an lA of Congreft patted on
I the lßtfi day of May, 179&-
I = ' " ' ' \o o,
• co C 3
A g•> ' t g
I a* -j; \ o £
1g» «■ "f - " £
« I s - '"-9
« s £ s a » :Ji
hs u « ■§■ s
•a< § g
1 o " i . H c —
#5 o 3 *75 .id <
2OS ■ «
r
-2 South East 5120
North East 5120 ,
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
3 5 South East 5120
No'th East 5120
jSouth Welt 5120
North Weft 5120
: 20,480
1 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
, North Weft 5120
, 30,480
t 9 South East 5120
;• North East 5120
1 South Weft 5120
1 North Weft 5120
20.480
[ 11 South East 5120
1 North East 5120
1 South W<tft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,489
4 4 South East j 1,20
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
, 30,480
6 South" East 5 120
It North East 5120
South Weft 5120
h North Weft 5120
20,480
, 8 South East 5120
North East 5120
1j South Weft 5 1 zo
p. North Weft 5120
h — 20,480
h IO South East 5120
: ' 1 North East 5120
Jl" SonthWeft 5120
North Weft: 5120
ch j 20,480
ip. 12 South East 5120
ch North East 5120
8,1 South Weft 5120
ch North Weft 5120
Si [20,480
c h 5 3 South East 4602 I
ch North East 4654
ip. South Weft 5120
ch North Weft 5120
»9> 49^
• c 5 South East 5120
North" East 5120
lc h South Weft 5120
ich North Weft 5120
iip. _ ! v -
lc h 7 South East 5 120
lc J) North East 5120
1C South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
lips be- — 20,480
Iby thc 6 9 South East 5120
r *"i a 2* North East 5*20 .
South Weft 5120^
s, have North Weft 5,20
. * J J 20,480
5
\.I £ " I
« a ■=
.5* " -
■ «J <£ 'aS
1,1 S -
£. O. fe "tj r 3
"5 T£ 5 » °h 4
c£ * d r 3 * *-
2 r K _S -3
*• S J2 "I "
o <L> b w
H s, =.s
z # . "p
Cl a"J
r- 1
J- - 11 South East 5 120
North East 5120
South Wed 51 20
North Weft 5 120
20,480
I 13 South East 51-20 ,| /Lv
i North East 5120 ' '■ ft
5120 , >
1 North Weft J.l io
h -— zo.fßa I
6 4 South 4630
■• North Ea'ft +^20
South 5 120 v '
\ North Weft J 120
a 19.490
6 South EaR 4730
>• North East 47 i 5
South Weft 5120;
2 Nerth Weft 5120 •„
*9.6*5 -
cs -8 South East 5[ 20 p,i
n * North- East 5120' '
M South WelU 5 120 J
Z North Weft;sl2o j
20,48O« .
0- jo South Eaftlj 120 3
=e, North East ; 120
» ir South WeikU 1 20
S North Weft! 5 120
jer £0,480
be 12 South East 5 120
North East 5 120 '
lay South Weft «jp-j .frSgSJS
North Weft^l2o
20.480
14 South East 5120
North East 5 120
llr . South Weft 5120
on North Weft; 120
20*80- .
— 73 South East ; 12c
North East ;i2O
South Weft; 12c <
North Weft r 12C
• i — 2CS^Ci
5 Sgwh East j 120
j ~"rr North East ;t2o
South Weft; 1 20
• North Weft ; 120* t
5 20,480
» 7 South East 5 120 1
North East 5 120 J\ I
South Weft 5 120 *
North Weft; 1 20
— 20,480
9 South East 5120 v -
North B»ft ciio 11- 41 '
South Weft 5120
North Weft ; 120 t
20,480
It South Eafts l io
North East 51 20
South Weft ; 120
North Weft; 120
—, 30,48<?
13 South Eafi ;i2O
North East ; 120
South Wefl'p 20
North Wefi ; 120
20480
15 South East ;i2O
North Eafi yi 2a ,
South Wefi ; 120
North Weft 5120
j 20,480
.NOTE. ,
THE quantities of Lands in the several townlhif': M
fore mentioned,are exclusive of the Se&iorts tefcrv/pi
the United States. The aggregate quantities is the R
ral townships, have been ascertained by a&uat furvcj , »- ;
the quantities in the quarter tewn(hips, have »cca '•
otherwise afccrtained than by calculation. .
n°. 1. .
WHEREAS the State of Maryland ha?
the underwritten, to, raise twenty-fa *
. twohundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose -
a Canal through the City of Waihington, fro» •
tbmac to the Eastern Branch Haruour.
The, folilwior is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz ■-I Prize of so,ooo dollars, » lo '° lQ
I ditto 10,000
?laft drawn*j * 35, '.00
Tickets, each J
6 ditto 1,000 b > c °°
10 ditto 4CO 4'
10 ditto ' too W?
rj ditto 50 / ~i
■* 5 750 -ditto r
To be raised for the Canal,
5850 Prizes, *75> 000 .
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.'
3 I7JOO Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 17 ■
#5" The CommilSoners have taken the Secnritiss
quired by the aforefaid ail for the psnitual paymcn
the prizes. without
The drawing as this Lottery will commence, ,
, delay, as soon as ttw Tickets are fold, of wbi'
notice will be given. _ . , t v 4
Such prizes, as axe riot demanded in , . .
drawing is fiiiiihcd, lliall be considered as rehni}" i T
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated «corajr.j ) ,■
(S.rmd j NOTLEY YOUNG.
DANIEL CARROLL, o/JJ«
0 , LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
w». m.duncanson,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
>q' City of Wafliington, Feb- H.
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN HO,
—No. 119 —
CHES NWT-STREET.
So TPrkc Eight Dollars per Annum./
tf \