¥ 4
of the tUIUOT Xt% 9 if Philadelphia Daily Advertiser .^2
tfvMgsi 1339.] FRIDAr EVENING, DECEMBER 23, 1796. [Voi.umz X.
/•V; For Sligo and Killibegs, F.
American Ship NtiNcr,
Cuthbert Riggs, master.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or piffage apply to '
William Bell; ei»
Who has for file, CIo
. Trunks Printed Cottons, well aborted ! . rl
. Bales Irish Flannels, and i boxes Linens £•£
*c Pipes Brandy p .
Madeira Wine : Indj|o ; Russia Mitts.
A few barrels Prime IRfsH BEEF, PORK, Su f
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796" mwftf A
FOR SALE, !
THE SHIP MARY, —
SAMUEL PARKER, Maste*, In
S£3SjaH§Sfc ; Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to '
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY i« not fold in a few days, (he will take the
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Prober 31. . . , atj:
1 For Charter, fut
The Ship JOHN BULKELT,
fySjEw Ayres Stocklev, Mailer.
An excellent live-oak and cedar built
of about 3000 barrels burthen. —Ap-
*Je[fe iff Robert Wain.
re ■ d. be '
Not.
For Sale, or Charter,
' The Ship DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Master",'
Bunhen TOJ 4?-9i ™"» rcgiftet, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1791, of live o»k
andred cedar, and was Gieathed 13 months ago, {he
has just had a compleat out-fit, ami may be Cent to sea ™
at a verv trifling expence. ,
for terms apply to
Philip Nicklin iff Co.
Who have for sale on hoard said vrjel,
*7 caflts of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and xa bundles of writing slates.
I box ink stands and note presses.
! 4 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imp«rial 1 _ —
Hyson, amd, / TEAS. Jj
Souchong J
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the firft quality.
19 tubs Quicksilver.
a chests Bandanno handkerchiefs. _ Jo
A few chests Manchester goods well aflorted in Cor- at
iuroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimitiei, &c.. at
3 boxes black Cewing silk. *
jgo crates Queens wii* well alToned. __ 1,1
to tons ftieet leid.
Nails afTorted, fist and flaarp points. _
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, ( an( j hogfh-ads.
New-York Market, J
- and to hog (heads T««rifcwmt.
8 tieiV.s Snake Root. 4
%£' tth&ftf lu
" FOR SAL E,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. DO. North Second Street.
Imperial "? , p C Hyson Skiu. ''
Hvfon, £ F"<h Teas. < Souchong,
Young Hyfbn. 3 ' Bohen
Dec. 9 - , 3UW,m - C
Imported from London iff Liverpool, £
lARTHEN WARE, in crates and hogflieads, wall
aflorted
Wine Bottles in hampers ft
Window Glass of alMizfcs
Two cases of fhtionary 1!
One chest of yellow Jesuits Bark \
Two cases ps Roll Arnotta C
A small' consignment °f Rose Blankets, Hannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plane, &c.
Paints of various colors. /
Bafketfilt in hoglheads,
Also on hand,
Madeira Jnt, very ®IJ, in pipes, hoglhcads and
quarter casks *
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality-
Anchors of different fixes
A few trunks of ladies French lhoes afTorted
Silk nankeen, &c. rn-„~ _c
Likewise an affortroent of Dutch goods, eonfifting of
Ofnaber -s, ticklenbergs, bed-tick?, ftrijws, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Britaumas, &c.
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas iff John Zetland.
Walrtut-flreet Wharf. <
, Nav. ij. i "' tF .— 1
Bank of Pennsylvania, lsth Dee. l 796. t
The Stockholders are requested to meet (
At the Bank onThurfday.the twenty-nintk inftaat, at >
to o'clock iH the morring. c
By order of the Board, # t
ROBERT RALSTON, Calhiec,
. , Pro tem .*
§t29tn
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOB SON, I
No. 15, South Third-street, , a
Has just reeeived, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via jOii
don, an aflortment of
Drab ? Cloaks trimmed with iur and
Purple and f ermine.
Pearl J . '
December ij. * '
Elegant Brussels & Turkey Carpeting, i
For sale by George Dobfon, No. aj,South Third-street.
December 15. ,
For Sale,
By the Subscribers —In PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 3 e w&f
Fashionable Waistcoating. I
Choi
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25, f^ w d
SOUTH THIRD-STRKET, FISI
Nat received per the /Diana, from Lenders,
Clouded and ftcipcd Spanish Swanfdown
Clouded Erminats and Molefcins jj
Striped do. aitd do.
Figured Manillas Eft
Scarlet figured Eriainets
Printed Floririttts
Do. CafTmcts and CatTimcrrs
Superfine printed Qminnjs, newest par:ei»«
Also, per difierent arrivals,
A large and general aflortment of Dry
Goo'ds,
SuitabW to the present and approaching fcafon. p «
November 5. dtf
Insurance Company of North-America.
5 THF STOCKHOLDERS in this comply are defircd Fivi
to take notice that the fecon J Tuesday in Jaimary, (being Fou
the 10th day of the month) i'-the d?y fired ty charter fur Tw
c the eleilion of twenty-five Dirc&ors for the ensuing year, six
The ele<ftiQn will he held at their office, and commecce i;l t
. atjn o'clock, A. M. Tw
Thel'whjeft >f the bye-laws of the Corporation will be Six
submitted to their conlideration at this mee ting. Thi
EBfiNEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry- f JV
Dec, il. tthioj Tei
I' To be Rented,
A Large Vault and Cellar,
That will contain 200 pipes, lituate in Walnut
between Fourth and Fifth-ftreets. Also a COACH"
_ HOUSE and STABLE, with Stalls for five horfei.
N. B. Goods Stored by the raonth.
Enquire of Benjamin W. Morris.
November jo. rawfn
FOR SALE, ~ Th
{J About 1,600 acres of Land,
e WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
a and Beech Creeks, M.ifini coiinty, Pennfylv?.nia, in
four separate Patents. For terms ni sale apply to
Win. Blackburn, At
No. 64; S«uth
October 31. mwftf
™ SALT PET RE.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 25, South Third-street.
November 5.
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, tha as elc&ion
for thirteen Directors to fetve for one year, will be hela
r- at the Company's Oriice, »n Monday the 9th January acxt,
c.. at 11 o'clock.—Aud agreeably to tlie act ol incorporation 1
a ftau)m«it of the affairs of the company, will then be
laid before them.
—< Sec'y.
Philadelphia, Dectmu er ig, i TyfiT" ytli jatn
————
* Philadelphia and .Lancaster Turnpike
Road Company. —
A -Meeting of the StoHchr>ltiei-s for the B toft ion of
a President, ?»lanatrers, and other officers, will be
f h«ld at the Company'a office on Monday the 9th Jan.,
— next, at 10 o'clock. by
By the Bo?rd. _
WM. GOVETT,Sec'ry. u s
, December 8, I7y6* h na
Imported in the late ,trr'vili from Europe and the aj
KFeJi-Itidies, th
Holland Gin, in pipes
_ Choice St. Croix Sugar and Kum
Martinique MioUfTss, in
Choice old Lisbon Wine, in pip«s and quarter-calks
0 London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipos, half-pipes and (juarter-cafits
Malmsey Madeira Win«, m pipes and quarter-calks
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes f,,
Ruflia & Flemifli Sheeting and Ravens Duuk, in cases p -
Window Gkfs, i by 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills' and Straw Knives, in calks
Mill Saws and Crol's-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
' A few chflts of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; Aflafm
tida and Tapioca; and a few bales of Coflaes, "
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Haudker- u
nd chiefs, and a complete assortment of 5-4 and 6-4 "
» Boulting Cloths. D
For Sale by „
Pragers iff Co.
Oaober 10 diwm&tham
of THE STOCKHOLDERS
kc. Of the Bank of the United States n
Arc hereby informed,
THAT, according'to the Statute of Incorporation, »
Gensral Eledlion for Twenty-Five Directors will be
held at the Bank of the United Sta'.es, in the-City of -
— Philadelphia, en Monday the second day of January
next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon
>e f And, pursuant to the eleventh fe&ion of the Bye Laws, i
the Stockholders of the said Bank are herehy notified to
'8t * (Terrible a General Meeting, at the fame place, on Tues
day the third day of January next, at fiv« o'clock in the
evening. _
. By ord«r of the Board of Directors.
' ' G. SIMPSON, Calhier.
and Fundamental Article. /
Not more than three fourths of the Directors in office '
exclusive of the President, (hall be eligible for the next '
succeeding year, but the Dire&pr who lhall be President !
at the time of an cleaion may. always be re-elected.
op- eftel
TO BE SOLD,
AP I.ANTAION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Gloueefter, and flatcof New-Jexfey, contain- ,
ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor- ,
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
— great part of the arable land is in a high (late of cultiva-
Iff, tion, and very natural to produdion of Red CI over
„. on said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house,
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
— thc-whole; together with a barn, corn-cribsand carriage-
Veufe rbe garden ii large, and contact, a good collcc
tion of thobeft kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trsc.;
the orchard confiftsof about three hundred grafted app e
' trees Any person i*clined to purchase said prcmiles, may
1 kl M """ i " ' bl "Ia'ITHUNTER.
s'f j»iy »9 F
New-England Rum, Salmon, B«ef,
Chocolate, Rice, Boflon mould and dipt Candles, a ]
few quarter-calks of Shfrry -Wine, a few barrel of
Cvder, and a few quiatala of excellent T'tble. COD- xT
FlSH—for file by No
Exektel Hall,
No. 41, North Water-llreet.
Decerobsr 14th,
Frejh Garden, Graft and Flower-Seeds, J?. r >
Roots, Uc. JS
This day landing from the (hip Eagle, .captain Fofdick,
friim Londga, J"
And FOR SALE hy —
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walflut and Second-ftrcets,
mcjl capital and txterjive Assortment of j^ or
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS, pl ,c
ROOTS, &c. &c. chai
Among which are, buil
Five kinds /fp»;agas IThres kinds Crefles
Four I3erecoU Twelve Onion ,
Twenty-five Beans Thirteen Radilh
Six Beets fifteen Turnip . )
liltven Brocoli Fifte«i» Peas
Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
Six Carrat Four Parsnip ,j
Three Cauliflower. Xwenty-tkree Melon
Five Celexy lHvcnty-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber; —
Common and lemon Thyrde
Curled leaf and (prigged Parsley
Pot MarygoW Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wtutzcl
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint.Foin Lucerne
Red sad white Clover Timothy, &c. 4tc. Oi
With a curious collection of the mod cftecmcd
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the mod extensive ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in -London, anil
are warranted frefli and good. -
Printed catalojjms may be had by applying as a! ore.
I Dec. 17. dtf.
j Juft~ Landing, * ]
At South J)reet <wharf, from on hoard the jhip Stdg- ;
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peterjburg,
The following Goods:
Ruflia Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
r Do. Huckaback.
Do. Crafli.
Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 'and the, lb. of the
English size.
j' Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
II Ravens Duck.
a Isinglass, ill and [and ftrt. p i
Horse Hair uncurled. (r
in Ruflia Bar Iron.
e Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons o»kum and Junk. J°
— 5t.l rtfnp. ■ m
For.Sale 9fT~" "
Philips, C?amond, & Co. £
Tl.
f A t>hort Delay
c In the Drawing cf the Canal Lottery, "
1 In Washington city, has been unavoidably occasioned tc
by the unforeseen intervention of Mr. Blodget's Lottery e |
—but a* the major p&it of the tickets arc now disposed f r
of, this is to inform the public that the drawing of tbie Ca- -j
nal Lottery will certainly commence without fail, on the
firft Munday in January 1797, and thoi'e holding tickets,
'* me hereby requested to fend a flatement of thole fold, and
those on hand.
NOTLY YOUNG, w
'DANIEL CARROLL, of Duddington, ''
GEORGE WALKtR,
THOMAS LAW,
tS JAMES BARRY,
W. M. DUNCANSON.
The Printers who gave our advertisements a place in
their newSpapers, are requeued to give this, notice admif-
Con', as the remaining tickets are expedltd to be soon above
s ' par, and we wiii adventurers to be timely informed
Nov. ii. t*}6w.
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
i- GEORGE DAVIS aanounce* 10 his prolcffionil friends, V
and the Geitlcmcxi of the Law, generally, through the g
r . Uaion, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang*
cd, and ready for Sale, fiom a single volume to aa entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low h
pricey, which forfeveral years past have in so dittlnguiihed a a
manner recommended them to notice. n
Priifrtd Catalogues combining the most exteßfive collec- *
tion cf chelateft Euglilh and Irifti Editions ever imported
— into this country, are publilhed, and will be delivered giatij C
on application. t;
Orders addrelTed to G. D. in writing from any distance
fliali lie punftuall'y attended to.
A number of 1 RUNKS for Sale. °
ALSO, TO BE LET, 1
a A conventei't LOFT t near M.nket Street Wharf. n
b o { r- 8 : tu&fg» * D
ry For Sale, 1
rs, By J. WARDER, PARKER £sf Co. r 3
An Invoice of Cordage, c
h e Confiding as different sizes, from u inch cables down i
to rope of l inches, qf different lengths: Imported in (
the ship Swtt, from Hull, and entitled to drawback. r
Sept. 17. dtf
jce Old London particular Aladeira Wine y r
cxt Landing 0 n board the barque Eagle, Capt. Bates, %
;nt and for sale jj y ROBERT ANDREWS, t
, No. 86, South Wharves.
Novnnbev iq . eodtf
_— 1 t
Cheap French China.
an- TI7K f'bftribero finding it impofiible to fnpply their
store with 3I1 y more China from France, the prices '
A being tooj mrao derate in the tnanufadories, give H9- 1
va _ tice thatfhey will fell at puimc coil the remaining <
■ tr fteck on (and, confifling of
tfC) L)efiert Setts,
der Tea-Tjble Setts
ge- Separ.| e Cups and Saucers
lec Grou e . s and Figures
ics; Alab.ft er Vases
pe- Lon' ing Glaflis, in gilt framci,
nay Belies India Japan'd Toilet Cefks, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Bcxe.. PASQUIIR & Co.
No. 91, Seuth Second-ftrett.
December ;th. tts
.For Sale,
Bv George Defchamps, Nt>. 9,1,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrel* and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or fiagle one
Dry Cedfifh, from one to fitty kental*
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Parie, in the (tone
and grtsimd, for manure and ftuceo-work
December i. ___
For SaPe,
% A capital stand for buSnefs—l hit wall known tavern,
the Ewe and Lambs, North Froct Street, No. J.'H.in the
Northern Liberties; a brick house containing nine fire
j>Ucc», and ten rooms well fiailbed ; food (tables and
ch&ir-houfe, with a frame-houfe on Water street ; the
building (lands on four lots, seventeen feet front each, ma
king a front on front-ftreet, thirty-four feet, aud nearly
the famt'oa Water-street, and is one hundred and forty
feat deep from street :• street, fubjeA to £8. fbs. each
ldt per annum, ground rent, this property is near the hiy
fcales, and public docks, e«Ty communication with the
Delaware waters and advantageously situated for bufincb
of various kinds. !
The above premises are now rented until December
ueit at £-175 p£r annum,—Enquire of tne Printer.
Dec I*. §iwaaw6w.
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET^
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Well Stlecitd Wijojtr mint *f
Silk Merccry, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholefate and retail) sn tbe very
V lowest terms j
Amongjt übicb ere «
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, nfW
Farniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconc;. Mufliiss
Ditto in Geld and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk aud Cotton Hafiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, aflort«d
lnth Linens, very fine, a»d Table Linens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose daukcts iUIot ted—&c. Stt.
Ociobtr 16.
CAUTION.
s__—-
WHEREAS vJry hrge and heavy debts are justly
due and owing 'from messrs. Blair M'Clenachan and
Pairick Meore, of the city of Philadelphia, merchants,
trading under tbe firm of Blair M'Clittachot anc{ P.
Meore, and from Blair M'Clenachan in his separate
capacity ; to which, by the laws cf the find, airthe
joint as well as separate prdperty of the said Gentle
men, in, and ought ta be, liable. And whereat
it U clearly and fatisfietorily ascertained, that mr.
Blair M'Ckuatfwn, of the said firm, has conveyed
' away to mr. John H. Hhjlor,, his fon-in-liw, to hik
_ daughter,-wi'ifs M'Clenachan, and to his foil, Geargt
M'Clenachan, several large and valuable real eltates,
as well a* coufidcrable personal property, in the city
aud county of Philadelphia, in the cSunty Lancat
ter, in the county of New-Castle on Delaware, ind
)' elftwhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
d feat the Creditors in the recovery of their just debts.-—
This, is, therefore, to forewarn all persons whemfo
e ever, a gain It the purchase from the said grantees, or
'j either of them, of any portion of the said real or per
sonal property, as the most vigorous meal'ures will
without delay be taken to render the fame liable to
the just demands of the Creditors.
By qrder of the Creditors.
Tbtmaj FitzJlmoru, "J
Philip Nicklin, J
Tfaac VhaHon, Committee:
n William M'Murtrie, 1
f- Samuel W. Fi/her, -J
re Philadelphia, December 17th, 1796. joth.J
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the public prints, *
is, warning all persons against purchafmg from the
be grantees of Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
large, real and personal cftates he conveyed away to
w hit fon-in law and to his children was the result of .
a a deliberation had upon the fubjeft by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P. Moore as of plair M'CUna
ii chan individually. . It was no more than an execu
tion of that trust coitfidod in the fubferibers bj
" these creditors a step which it would have been a
breach of duty and honor in them to have omitted.
The very statement of the f»6t therefore must dif»
pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
_ or vindi&ive.'' It originated in a desire to fectirc
the property of the debtor as a fund for the pay
ment of his juA debts. It was fan&ioned by the
'• advice of council as a tneafure necefary to the fafjety
of the creditors. If the advertifament has been
vn injurious to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjuftiliable conduct, not to the fub
fctibers who have merely publilhed the truth in
— terms as mild as the fad* would admit, and who
mean to iriveftigate in a high court of justice the
;s. validity of thole purchase* of whieh Mt. M'Cle
nachan fa confidently speaks.
The fubferibers therefore are bound by a sense
_ of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their'
caution against purchasing of those grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of it ta a
:lr purchase from any other persons (if £uch there be)
" to whom Mr. M'Clenachan may hare made similar
le conveyances.
6 (Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
T. NICKLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILI.iAM M'MURTJtIE,
SAMUEL W.FISHER.
Philad. Dec. 21,1796.
lea •"**
Thafe printers who have bee* requ?fl.td rt
puHliA tbe firft Cautiom, arc deGred to publift. tk.'s
tts alfo
.-atMST &S • iliSNstr Txejtre. Li
\ THIS EVENING, December ij,
Will be presented,
A TRAGEDY, called M
The Orphan 7
Or, The Unhappy Marriage.
1 Acaflo, Mr. IVarren
Caftalie, Mr. Morrtm
. ' Polydort, Mr. Wignell
Chamont, Mr. Cooper
• ErDello, Mr. fFarreU
Paulino, Mr. Warrett, juu. 1 '
- Cordelio, (the page) Mfls L'EJtrange
Cbaphin, Mr. L'EJlrange
Monhnia, Mrs. Merry
Serina, T Mrs. Francis
Florella. Mrs. Ruri-ef
— i
Sad of the Tragedy a new Ballet Dince, (eompofed |
by ror. Byrne) called •»' ,• , "
THE X B O U Q_U ET:
Is which wiU be introduced, tj»e favorite <
TAMBOURINE DJ&CI..
« . <
To which will be added, . '
A FARCE, (written by Foote) reduced to one a<B,
a called
The Mayor of Garrat.
, Sir Jacob Jollup, Mr, Francis '
♦Major Sturgeon, Mr. IVarren '
Jerry Sneak, Mr. Hartvood
Crispin Heeltap, Mr. Darley, jun. ,
Bruin, Mr. tVarretl o
Roger, Mr. Blijett
Mrs. Sneak, Mrs. Francis
Mrs. Brain, Mrs. Mecbtler
' 1 n<
On Saturdav the Comedy of
SHE STOOPS T8 CONQUER ;
Or, The Mistakes of a Sight.
Vith a celebrated French Opera, in i a£t», called K
LES SOULIERES MORDORES.
{jr Bsx, Ooc Dollar -wenty-five cents. Pit one Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar. ;
Tickets to be had at H. &P. Rice's dook-ftore, J
No. 50 High-street, and at the Office adjoining the (
Theatre. M \
Places for the Boxes to bAaken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till- * o'clock, ind from y
10 till 4 on the days of performance. j
The Door* of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock. , _ j
Ladies and Gentlemen are. requested to lend their
servants to keep places a quarter before 5 o'clock, and ■
to order them, as foo* aTthe company are seated, to ;
■withdraw, as they carniot on any account be permit- ' j
ted to remain. .
nrAT RESPUBLICA! s '
Clocks and Watches.
_ IO:
LESLIE AND PRICE,
f?0. 79, MaRKET.*HEIT, PailJDSlfßlJ,
t HAVE IMPORTED, by the late arrivals fiHnm
London, a large alTortment »f WARRANTED
JVAr CHES, confiftiug of horizontal, capp'd and
jewel'd Gold Watche, with seconds, of fnperior
workmanlhip and elej,anc£ ; aifo capp'd and jewel'd Ye
and plain Gold Watches ; capp'd* jewell'd, capp d,
seconds, day of the m'outb, ar.d plain Silver Watches j '
eight dav & chamber Clock*; elegant French Clocks ma
with marble frames; eight day and thirty hour, brass thi
works, &c. —
Dcccmbet l», 1796. dim
Readings and Recitations,
Xorat, Critical, <tna Entertaining;
Mr. FENNEL L Q,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gentlemen
ef P iladelphia, and its vicinity, that an !n roduilory
Reading will be delivered at the College-Hall, on Tnefuay
evening next, at 7 o'clock. —Where, by permission of the
honorable, the TruJlees of the ODiverfity, the couxaewill
be regularly continued during tke winter.
admission tickets to be had of Mr. PcFjlfon,
Jun. at the Library jSit vlr. M'blvec'f looking-glass-Sore, c
No. 70, Sonth Fourih-llreet; and at Mr. Carey's, Book- u
fSer, Market-street. E '
Dec. 1L dst. Ui
Jult Arrived,
fer fchcorur Daphne, Captain Mor/r, from Aim- Fj
Caycs, ' - at ,
A Cargo of Sugar and Cofjee.
Also, per trig Betjey, Captain WiUe, from the IJle |
of trance, so;
y» Hogfteads, I puncheon, ans 15 cattilUrs, of
Jbtavia Sogar ' an
45 Hogsheads Pepper of Malabar
65 .oca lb. Coffee
13.0C0 Cotton —
4,00 c Indigo For Sale by
F. Ccppinger, ..
, t No. in, Soutft-Front-ftreet ,"*
December »i § j
On Wedn'efday, the 28th inft. ,h
At i o'clock in'the evening, will be fold 'at public ed
au&ion, (if not before difpoi'ed of at private sale) : di
It the Ci'.y-Tavein, • . or
All that capital manlioii-honfe, ftibles, oat-hoofes, &e. ! N
and three contiguous traSssfland situate on the Weft-fide
• of Schuvlkill ia the townftiip of Blockley and eounty of
Philadelphia,gtnerally by the »jw ofLanfdown,
containing 199 acres I»1 perches more or less and a messu
age plantation and traA in Bloekky townOiip a- ~
forefaid adjoining Lacfdown, containing 64 acres one '
perch. f,'
The prcmifes are so well known as to need no partienbr r
defcriptiou. few ftau' in America can compare with
Laofdown for-convenience and elegangt; ft ecmmand« a
Tarieiy of rich beactiful ang it remarkably heal
thy. Terms affale will be made fenovrn By
PHILiP NiCKLIN, > Attornies in
■ifcD V faS to n
ROBERT E. GRIFFITH, J Jame. Greenleaf. b<
Dec. »i. §t«8;h tJ
This Day is 11
4 Poxcupine's *
POLITTCTAL CENSOR,
for NOVEMBER,
> CO»»frA!SI>.G
OBSERVATIONS
On the Insolent V:d Seditious Notes, y
(Attacking the Joveretgnty and irjeptndenu as tbc a
United StatrsJ p
Communicated to the People, by the late French o
samifier, ADET. I
December 11. *iw
List of Phizes and Blanks in lb( '
Wajhington Lottery, No. fl.
46th Days Drawing, December 10. _
No. BtHs. No. DiL. No. Dolt. No. Dots. '
11* 9554 i° 143*1 40658
Jl4 857 7" to 67* ,
4*l 10063 SjJii 8 j 3
jra 11404 16074 4>oit J°
514 599 *? r 339 10
659 <>53 J® 4&5 5*7 10
669 10 12457 15 1747* 4"&5. IO
718 13091 769 ?94 10 f
BX3 354 *Srss ro 14« . J
1103 , 963 10 Jij 10 ,
689 14174 29033 49* ,
785 io Sls ro 068 ; 517
961 *5019 10 ' 6 9 IO - 546 10 ,
1305 ' 16315 IS6 591
38.1 754 »o 8;8 10 9SB t
533 * 984,10 30001 43-i* <J
, 855 173>5 159 J ?** f
941 10 619 10 181 . . 649 t
971 883 / 668 ro
3154 18197 10 315*8 10 A 4684 10
651 19335 3*3*4 Jo 145455J % £
4607 10 aoooc J46aj7
"847 31J 1® £36 ' TT7 10 t
5136 10 335 . 497 J
746 47« f/*5« « 987 1
' 6119 t 717 *J 36615 i* 47*71 Jo a
781 911 640 ! 513
903 10 11083 10 J7354 618
9?3 481 10 30J. 861
7'35 *" 718 316 io- 936 10 0
459 11354 J«39* «» »
611 10 Scß 10 830 136
898 13610 10 879 49553 t
8198 IO 669 to 968 717 10; (
4J5 810 10 39447 M 5 '
*>t% 91° 10 5 2 * PJ
745 »4?i4 10 965 J
9CII 1278 40083
£
47th Dayt Draw ing, December 11, r
- " ?
No. Dob. ho. Dels. No Dots. No. Do.'s. t
363 IO7TI 137H 19 c
92- "55* *4455 4»5 *®
1516 10 993 10 • 617 10 815
1198 ,41069 718 4 40995 J"
; 4:8 511 750 10 41319
561 10' 841 814 394 .t
661 13607 , 375 t
■ 3403 10 15596 677 498 (i
4T74 19 799 16938 668 10
895 16136 to 17384 43754 t
5408 17101 6jt 44704 10 ,
r 453 ro - 174 18419 10 45343
j <380 10 18319 19461 391
9ro 19306 10 Bai ' 476 b
] 7169 465 30306 503
663 ■ 10689 IO 799 565 f;
697 11069 Bx3 40 951 TO c
8784 193 31566 *0 460:4
9688 348 31707 754
713 10 636 811 50 988 r
10151 10 731 34158 47346 1
183 11513 36166 8.-4 '
063 7'9 37037 887 10 x
381 740 539 48436 10 g
j 385 13485 10 855 49«>» a
JFou N D f
i Yesterday afternoon, in Second, inc. < t
' " Kace-flrcets, ,
A small sum of money ; whoever hu toft the fame, j
may have it by proving thiir property, and paying for
this advertisement.—Apply to the Printer.
Dec. *3. *3<- c
FOUND, 1
By a Gentleman, a SUM of MONEY. '■
1
The owner may have it by applying at the Indian
Queen. Dec. 11. "3 j
y Dancing. i
y _ 1
• j MR. FRANCIS of the New-Theatre, in conjiinSioii
with Mr. BYRN, late BaUet-roafter, and principal dan
, cer of Cevent-Garden Theatre, London, now as the j
New Theatre in thit city, opened their Acad-my at Mr.
Oeller* Hotel, on Tuei.iay, December 13, where th«y
propofr to leash, in the most now and approved methods, '
Dafccing in itj various ufeful and ornamental branches. I
- Mr. Byrn'i recent attention to the uancet of London ,
and Paris ». ill enable him to complete this branch of j
education in his scholars in the mo# finifhed style. (
Favorite Scotch reels will also engage tbeir particular
attention.
The days of teaching for their young papili are Thurf- 1
-j. ' days and Saturdays, from three o'clock in the afternoon
' till fix—md onTaeldays it Tharfdays, front fix ti.'l nine,
for these of a more advanced age.
3 ' For farther particulars enquire of MeSrs. Francis
and B/m, No. 70, north Eighth-fireet.
* Privite tuition as ufnal.
Philad«!phia, December 16, 1796. _ oaw
I—
Any Person
el Whi is well acquainted vth m River
_i • MIS SI
• And will give Direflio: l £ . ;j) c fame,
| that can be depended on, ! "•- e v eward
ic ' ed for his information, \ ■; --ide. l-ive the
:) dtre<£>ious with Mr. John Fci . r - r,
. or Edmund M. Blunt, Nev
e. November 3. "
de ~ *
of IV y) N >, /),
». A MUSI A V,
Who is capable of comp< A-coPp;:;;! to
te Songs for an Orchtftra. He ,r. 3 halt i:!.«-r en- I
gagemcnt as a composer. En reit O' e . this
iar P 4 ?*'-
December n. 3
Delaware and Schuylkill P- i
The Stockholders are herebv u.-.f ■ f an
nual Ele&ion for Officers for "t 7 " will
f. be held at the Company's office,
t)« ; f the I
United States, on the firft Mono . in -nuar\ nest;
at 10 o'clock, A. M.
By the Board of Manaf'r».
fTM. MOORT SIU ."'> >• y-
PhiTadelphia? Dec. I, 1796.
For Sale,
Seven elegant Scites for ,
Opposite the Sute-Houfe Gard'.n -eT # - ]
> Hail; each Let being 15 f«et*frc -i: «S! i*cc:.
the and 119 feet deep to al4 ieet Co-.rt, o a
plan which may be seen at the Coffi r-H.i at '-be
ich oS' eof Abraham Shoemaker, No. r;«, S
firert, wMere the terms Wiil be made
December 16 ce,
11.* I . ;
v ;
CONGRESS ot tat UNITED STATES. (
HOUSE OF *EP*.ESE*TATIVEI. V
- ' I
Continuation of lit Jtbate on the addreft in onftaer '
to tbe PrtfiJent's fpertb.
Thorfdav, December 15*
Mr. Giles said the gentleman last lip had talked _
of improper language being; held an the difference
between the French republic and this country. The
fa&s he had mentioned, he £aid, were at we!' .
known to tlie French directory as to any gentle- (
man in that lioufe. He /poke of things a* they }
existed, Sfl3 ipeke of them with a to caution
the bou(e againfi war. Hewifhed thai gentleman
to look OcOO all the gloomy thiogs he had":{»id in
the last fcfSpn on the fubjeA of par. when. in his *
opininion, it much less prdtalJcjhan at pre
sent. With refped to tbe rarobabiliiy a rup- ,
tore with Franre. everyone knows that a tu/penfun j
of the powers £f the rainilter of that country had
taken place. This, !t had keen inlinuited, Jasto
hart an influence on a eertafii ele£lion. TV's tras
tpo, improbable to be iqiagifed. He \rouid ask
gentlemen when tbey saw 21* thingui»thiicountry
wjiich placed us in so de'icate a lit nation at we were
at present with the French republic j for, from ,jhe
revocation of the Britifl) edict of the 6:h of No
vember, he never believed tbefe.was any probability
of » war with Great-Britaia—.Jjur, at prdfcjflt.Tk v
acknowledged he had very ferity appsaftenfrf s.
The jeutleman from MaffacKtifetts ?ll«ded
to certain information from Paris. If he supposed
there was other information than such as was
received from oee iniiividnzl to another, he believed
he was oiifirrfofmed. Mr. Giles said he had him- ?
felf lately leen a friend from that country w'»o Had '«
given him information on affairs there. He did 1
not thii.k theie was any thing trcafunable in this. '
Much had been said about improper correspond- v
er.ee with France. He believed gentlemeu : '
of Ytich things until they fancied them real. There ! t(
might be persons, he owned, wicked enough to '
inflame the citizens of one country against another, j •']
hut tbefe could have little effefl, and he djfctlicved a
their eziftence at prelent. Such ideas were merely n
the fabrications of prejudiced minds, and it beiame P
ne?effary to fprak to them. . <3
Mr. KitchelKhought it was full time that gen- g
tlemen o« both fides of th* present queflion Ihauld
hare exbaufted themselves. He though! too muUT t
had been said, and he wished the qucllion might t
be taken . , t
Mr. Sitgreaves agreed that a great deal of time t
had been spent in rlelefs difcufltons foreign from the Y
quell ion befyie them. He wofojd however fay a
few words to the jnotion before them. It was Sift (
thoved to tlrike put " freeft and most enlightened." t
It now moved that the passage (hoi:ld re>d, 3
" fftcft a;;d among the most enlightened " He t
though: the criticism in itfelf of like consequence ;
and he (hould not have troubled the committee with J
any lemarks on the fubjed, had he not heard one t
gentleman doubt ous being the most free, and ano- t
;i:ej tljai we ww «")i t ;)m.rrnL. i
liic i.et Wa«~c»HcJirtfo giirftidti, he wilted"she "ex- j
preflion mfghl; not b« (truck out or altered, bscaufc t
the dotug so, would countenance the idea that we c
were not free and enlightened. The light spoken ,
of, he laid, wis political light, and had" an refer- J
ence to arts, fcienee or literature, ano-in that sense i
he believed the affrrtiou to be founded. The pre- t
sent, he said, ought net to be considered as a pub- t
lie aft to be noticed by other nations, Wit at a com- (
pooication entirrly domeflic—as a cooverfation of j
individuals ; they fhonld be considered is speaking {
in soliloquy, and if another nation chance to over- l
hear them, it flioutd bj confiotreO as a kind of 1
Eaves dropping. ,
This fentirnent was Taluahle, he said; becaofe, |
to believe we are the frteft and ir.dft enlightened, (
would have a tendency to make us so ; an 3if we ,
were r,ot so, we ougbt to take fliame to ouifclves, |
since we have the power of making oiirfelres what i
wechufe. The belief was therefore valuable, and 1
if it ought to be cherished, it was proper auJ p»a
dent to expref;; it. But to Jtidgeof the prt>prietv
of tiiis, or any other fentirawit, it ought not to be
considered in the ahftraft only, bat in its applies- ,
tion. The President of the United States, whose 1
administration had been so valuable to the people
of the United States was about to retij-e from his 1
station, and the honfe of reprefentalivea were go
ing to t>xprefs their approbation of bis fervic*.. ,
This approbation, said he, iV tbe <m!y reward he
can receive ; it oitght, therefore, to be made as ur. 1
equivocal and valuable at polfible. Now, wiß a»y
One deny, he added, that the whole force of tbe
compliment is derived from our beiiijr free and en- ,
lightened; f«r, if the acknowledgment wis not
iroro such a people, it would ceaf; to Be vatuaUK ,
The more Hrongly, therefore, tnu irnitiment could
he expressed, (be higher was i t vahje. • (Mr. S.
read the passage.) Would any gentleman fay thit
the fpe&acle of a nation which was not free and
enlightened wouid either be " novel or iajtreflin;;?"
Hiftory.tellt us that such an expreflian would m-
r.ovel, Lptercflinef or valuable. Those,
therefore, who voted tot linking out these words,
Uiotaidir.ov- r 0 strike out the wljple He 1
was cpjiofed to all amendment of the original.
Mr. Thatcher said he did not think »he objeQ
before *hcm of <onfeqtunce. He wilhed to fee
tbe house unanimous on this fubjeft, and he would
propofr in amendment which he hosed might have
; the effrft to make them so. Hr move-1' to have
! passage read « the fpeftacle of a free and en
lightened nation."
Mr. Ciiriftie's motion was put and negatived.
Mr. Thatcher's was then put and carried.
Mr. Isivingfton moved to strike out the word
" tranquil prosperity," in tbe sixth paragraph. He
1 had two reason for thit motion. The Crftrefpefted
the fentkeent, the second the form of wording. • He
could not eor.Gder the present period as a period of
tranquil profpmty j if he did, he {hould moek the
ailtreis ot his conrtiturntt, who™ he law greatly
. embarrassed ; but though he could not agree to that
. term, hr did not believe we were so mifrrabJe~a»
•hole nations to which we were compared, and
-hetCiOre he thought the language of thcaddref.
might be ret s'oed.as far u U drew confbhtloi fr* n
thai view. The other objection which he hid to
the passage in qtteftion wa», to the wording of it
which indeed he ftiould not have thought of luff,,
ciant consequence alone to hate made hi*
had it not been conne&ed with the other objeftio*.
He believed it inaccurate to compare tranquil prefc
to period, »• there wa« no fitrilarity between
them.—He hoped thi» amendment wouW takeplace
and that the addtef* would at length pift unani
anoufly. he expressed his gratitude to anl
admiration of the charafiei of the President, he
wifecd not to hurt hit feeliogs or pricciples, the
former, indeed, he might facrifice a little on the
occasion, but his principle* be rould not facritice to
aov man. 7
Thi* amendment wa* put and carried 42 to $7.
Mr. Lrvirgftnn moved to flr.ke out io the ntxt
paragraph, " wife, firm and pain'otic adminitfrsti.
an."* am! to iufert in their place, " wifdo®, firm.
ness and pitriotiftn." Mr. L. said he did not be*
ljfve th'at all the a&» of the Pfefident's admioiflra
tion had been wife and firm, but he. would fay that
hi* wisdom, firmnef* and patriotism have beat fij.
nally conducive to the success of the ptcfeot form
of government. JJ
Mr. W. Smith thought the gentleman who made
this motion eonfidered the word* ohjefled tr»a* em
bracing rnjrethan they were intended to embrace.
They fignified no mqrc tbaa that bit administration
in jreneral- had been wife, firm and patriotic. Tfii*
did not embrace every a£V. If she had not
bren in the address as reported, to hate omitted 4
therh would not have been of confequencc ; but
now they were there, to strike them out, would
convey cenfurf.
Mr. Giles said, it was well known that macy
gentlemen in that house had been particularly oppo
sed tithe British treaty, and to the emission ott.ie
quantity of transferable paper which had been emit,
ted. The gentleman last up had said, becacfe the
wird* were in the a. dress reported.they ought not
to be Arvck out. He did not think that commit
tee ought to be influenced by what had bee* repor
ted to them. The thing ft >od as if tbey had whol
ly to form the add reft. He acknowledged, if thf
amendment place it woutd make the thing
more palatable to him. He believed the PreGdent
pojTeffed taient*, virtue and wisdom, but thit tbefe
qualities had not becn-fo eminently difpU)ci in the
government as in the other ad* of Li* life.
Mr. Gilbert spoke agaiuft the motion. He
thought to feparatc the wisdom, virtue and patrio
tism «>f the President from tys public character, wa*
v to take away the force of the compliment intended
to be conveyed to him, a* it was his public, and not
hi* private character which they meant to approve.
Mr. Craik said the gentleman from
(Mr. Gile«) seemed tothirk it immaterial whether
thefubjeft wa* before a committee of the whole or
a fele£t committee. The diltintfion was certaioly
material. What wa* done in a felcdt committee
was kuown only to themfelvej ; but what was done
in a committee of the whole wa* made public j a*
no gentleman could be at a lot's to know, that the
reported ad J reft, witty tly present delates, would
isc pnWifhed in all the paper*. The priuctpal rea
fen urged for fti iking out the exprefiiont in quef.
tion, bad been'grounded on the opinion that lame
of the acts of the Ptefident'a administration had
not been wife and firm. Much discussion had-la*
keo place. Some objeSrd lo'hrQf expi<o°"»
account of the Britift treaty, .£><?<?-■#». account ■rf
the emiflion of transferal paper. It therefore,
the amendment proofed was adapted, the o'-jettr
ons would be admitted to have forte, and that the
adoiiniilration of the President had not been wife,
firm and patriotic. And were there, he ulkcd, a
majority in that houfc who would fapport thra opi
nion i Beftdes, as it had been juftjy observed by
the gentlercan lift :;p, the -compii.-«eri: intended t»
1 be conveyed, fliotild cd to the public cha
. the or it would imply a tacit
reflection on !-ii administration. Qa thefe^round*,
> he fell, as hetrufted a majority of that botife would
!eel,'a dehre to expreis his opinion, in favour^of
! the wife, firm and patriotic administration of the
President.
Nir. Isaac Smith.—The fin of ingrathnfa it
worfetha- the fin of witchcraft, and we fhzfl
damn ourfelvcs to cve.-lafling fame, if we withhold
the mighty tiibute due to the excellent man whoa
' we pretend to address. Posterity tjiro'out all fa
' turt generations wiilicry out jT.amie on us. Onr
sons wiil blufii their fathers were bis fact. If ex
cels were pcffible on this wooM be a
r glorious fault, and worth a little fneakmg
frigid virtue*. I abhor a grudging bankrupt
payment, where the debtor i« much more benefited
than the creditor. The gentleman from Virginia
milreprefents his own conftitueiits ; 1 am fute he
docs aii the reft of the union. On the prefeat oc
cafiou, we ought not to consult our own little feci
-1 Trigs and sensibilities. We (hould speak wi h the
heart, and in the voice miillioet, and then we
t ihould speak warm and lond. Wbat! " Ejhi
with fai-it praifc ?" And foppref* or freeze the
warm cnergctic grateful fecfations of alreoft evetj
- honest heart from Maine to Tenaeffee. I will ait
, doit. Bvery line should burn. This it I
' w »y of adoring the profile.
' £ -V - Dayton ( the Speaker) said tlje motios
theu be'ore them was of great* importance, abd-oe
i ry man v.ho thought favourably of rke Prclidoot'*
; »<'n>!»inratios wquld Cuetc inske a stand. For if
i the word* ttere llfrick out, ii would convey an idea
to the woild that it was the opinion of that houte
that thf tt4ah6t#caTtoe of the President haJ »e»th
er been wife fitm nor patriotic. Gentlemen might
concur in the addrcia io its present torn,
• *bo did not tbink that every iiugla set of the Prr
( had i»eco wife aari firm, since it was his al«
- tr.inidration in general which wa* referred to and not
= eseh individual aft. He hoped, theretbre, tit
i amendment offered, would be decidedly oppoftd,
E '^ at the words promoted to be ftruckout nocU
t be retained.
Mr. Pa»e thought ihat Mr. Living (lon's amend*
> ment properly c-yifined the eoaapliment to the I
t President. ithoit it that complimeflt would be
« extended to all those that had any (hare ia the sd
miniitratieii of the goverment of tbe United Stat'fc
» Senator*, rcf rcfootatives, and head* t»f dtf-«t-? '
t LfLtftfiir* tt with Vim. Mr. P*g< was wl!- j
,0 t^'e President for his wisdom,
/ i an 4Bj{ r ' ol '^ m » w ' l ' ch had seen fuf- A
jj . ien t > courfc of hit administration: terdi
f l- ' h; gyc-erigd that, after what had been said on tl
.. t aomu(?h warmth on both fides, that there whal
was no propriety in using expressions in the ad- pally
r , re ( s w hich can possibly convey an idea that the by tl
' l/ufe meant to compliment the wisdom, firmnefs, thee
«ad patriotism of any other man. Mr. Page looked tleft
Uoon the amendment as conciliatory, and as eon- cern
wring t,ie true * ,e,n '"K of ttie eommittec of the ?' ac '
' hole He wa» not willing to cenfnre the Prefi- Rep
dent for foU nv,in ? ad " ice which hr had thought dera
nftitutionally binding OB him. He was as much the ]
willing to giv« others credit for his virtues. wou
""Mr Heath said he was decidedly against the a- amei
B , f nrl>r>'-nt H* did not think if it was adopted it reaj)
i _3etl desired, as the words would Spe;
public chara&er of the President ; Mr.
_ Kked the phraseology of the origi agai
.n, , vote for regaining it. Spe;
"-V v;• ot mean to pay compliments to them- houl
♦he Prefideiit; therefore! the words but i
r it fd only to the administration ot difp<
the President alone. Th« fiift question was then, lie c
whether that administration had been marked with acki
wisdom, firmnefs and patriotism f And he would honl
briefly fay» f® f ar a * related t0 'h f internal situation pro";
c f the country, it had borne these marks. He beer
did not recollect any instance, where he could fay, weu
here was a want of wisdom, ar there of firmnefs bats
and patriotism. If they proceeded to foreign as- wen
fairs, a great number of rru'nber* were found (he gati
for one) *h» wilhed that certain a6U bad not taken the
•lace | and, if he thought in giving approbation read
to thisaddrefs, he was approving of those measures que
he would certainly vote against it j but as the gen- app
tlemen from South Carolina and New-Jersey (Mr. agai
Smith and the speaker) had observed, as the ap- 1
probation went to the administration in toto, it had notl
refpeft to n0 particular aft. Nor did he believe viz
the literal words would apply to the business of the Mr
late treaty ; (he read the words) the mod clear as i
' meaning of these words related to the present go- wifl
werMUßtt and constitution. Ai d the word " fuc- ferv
eefs" could apply to those parts of administration pro
only WMeh had time to be matured. He did not had
believe that at the present period it could be said con
that the tfeaty with Great-Britain had been fuenefs- the
ful, and therefore could not' be included, within fall
the meaning of the exprefiiou. Not meaning to Mr
pledge an approbation of that and not conceiv. on
J E g that the sentence could have fprh a meaning, wit
he would vote against the proposed amendmeut, and wh
for the original. hac
,\lr« W. Lyman did not consider this as a mat- Sta
ter of little importance, he ihould ~ote for the a- je£l
mendment. It was deferable, h<# owned, as far as not
polfiblc to keep ont of view anv contrariety of o occ
- pinion on these fubjefts ; but since it became ne- no
ceflary for members to axprefs their opinions, he ne- wo
w fliould abandon nis. He thought the President pol
had in feversl things done wronjr; but he did not Lr
charge him with any thing but miijudgment. When of
he was applied to last fefiion to give up certain pa- wii
pers relative to the negociation with Great-Britain, net
he believed he mifjtidged in withholding them t a!fo _ot,
in fending an envoy to Great Britain, and in the no
f whole of the British treaty. He had not changed Sn
his opinion on that fuhjeft, nor should he, until he to
&w reafan ft>r so doing. And was he, with these ob
opinions to faf tie approrri-ef ih«Ce m«»fures ! He pr.
was willing to fubfcr.be to the amendment proposed, ot!
end if the compliment was stretched farther, it th
would be bombast. He considered this motion as th
very material ; for if they pasTed the original, it a«
would be condemning many of their former afte. th
He hoped therefore the amendment would obtain, w;
S Mr. Gallatin thought the words objected to were fei
conceived to mean no more than ihey really m
did mean, by gentlemen who fnpported the present th
motion ; nor could he conceive how the words firm- fe
ness and patriotism proposed to be infeited could it
apply t® any thing but the public charter of the d<
President. On the firft view of the address, Mt. tti
Gallatin said he thought with the gentlemen from
New-York and Virginia, and it wrs not without tl
considerable hesitation, that he brought l.imfrlf to vi
agree to this part of rhe address. He found, how- a.
ever on fu.ther examination, that they did not go
so far as he at firft thought they did. Had they ai
approved of every measure ef the President of the o
United States, he [hould have voted against them ; ft
but, in the firft plac£, he would observe, that as his w
administration did not include legislative , io u
' that whatever evfTs had arisen from the funding or b
banking fyitems, were not to be charged to the Pre- r
[Debate to be continued.] p
. Jr n
Thwrfdny, December 11. e
V'Mr. Baldwin presented a petition from thfc wi- li
(few of Major Robert Forfyth, who met his death li
at the Federel Fort, for payment of monies due p
V- on fi«r late husband's account. Referred to the at- g
**< , Mr."Coorfc presented the petition of John Re;»r- q
W, prayipg to he re-plac«d on th« penhon-lift, t
Aeferred to the committee of claims.
:Mr- Baldwin moved that the report on the p«- t
iitlon of John Gibbons, treafurerof Georgia, be c
N referred to # committ«e of the whole. It was made
tIK order for Wednesday. t . .
Mr. Patton obtained leave of abfenee for ten t
j
"Sr. Henderfon moved that a report of the At- I
torney-general relative to a contrast between the ,
"United States and John Cleves Sims, be committed j
to a committee if the whole. It was made the or- .
der for Tnefday. .
JfifeCoit wtfhed the gentlemen to give his rr»- t
sons why the We (hould not meet to morrow, as i
|f Mr. W. Smith said, hit reason for making the ;
motion was, that the different committees might j
have time to fit and prepare business to come before j
■the house. * , . w „
Mr. Macon was in favor of adjourning to Man-
Jay ; as it would tend more to the difpateh of bu
siness if iht committees iiad time given them to pre
pare their reports, th»n the house meeting when
there was no tnfinefs Teady to procacd with. ,
Adjourned to Monday.
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE* «*SS
A very long and warm debate took place yes
terday in the house of representatives of this state,
on the answer reported by a committee of the F!
whale to the Governor's speech, occasioned princi-
pally hy a motion of Mrc Leib to amend the answer Rsti
by the introdoftion of a sentiment approving of
the conduct of the governor in reference to the late
election of elcftors, and another, expreiTmg con- VTPI7
cern that any misunderstanding should have taken
place betwixt the United States and the French wT
Republic, and exprefling a hope that the fame mo- Khoje
deration and desire for peace, which had a£fualed Q )r „»
the Executive of the Uuion in a late negotiation, Vcrm<
would influence it on the present occafien. This New
amendment, which was of considerable length, was! New
rea(J by Mr. Leib in his place, and handed to the ms
Speaker, who gavr ir to rhe clerk to read, when ,
Mr. Frazerand Mr. Wala objeaed VS
again read, as an unneccfTary wa(\r of time. The Kentii
Speaker said it was agreeable to the iule» of the T*nni
house that the motion (liould be read by the chair ; North
but that the house might, if they thought proper, South
dispense with the rule. The mover and Mr. SmU Geor J
lie complained of the fingularit-y of this procedure, r
acknowledging at the fame time the power as the 1
hoafe so difprqfe with the rule ( though they re- 1"J
probrated the principle) ; yet, as it had never
been done on any former occaHon, they trusted it « •
would not be done then. After considerable de- An in
bate, in the sourfe of which the yeas and nays
were called for, the question was takfn, and ne- Mi
gatived, there bring o.dy u for difpenling with Mr
the rule, and 53 ?gainft it. The motion was tlien H fnr >
read from the chair, and, without much debate,the Ef<l '
question was taken by yeas and nays, when there'
appeared 29 for admitting the amendment and 36 a re s,
>'• . appoi
1 his amendment being loft, Mi. Leib moved a- faithl
nother, which was the latter part of the former, durir
viz that part which related tothe French Republic. «'«!
Mr. Smilie seconded this motion, and trusted that |
as it went no further than to express the earned T]
■ wish of'the house that thiscountry might be pre
served in peace, it would meet with unanintoirs ap us
i probation :he added, that, or former occaliuns it "j"|
had heeq insinuated that he . gentlemen who ware
! concurred with him in opinion, were for war (iho'
■ the aflertion was Uflfounded) but now, said he, w? Extr
1 tall upon to join ns in delires for peace.
> Mr. Fiazer and Mr. Wain, übjeftcd to the motion, «
. on the ground tlm that house had nothing to do
, with the dispute between the two countries,
I which was in the hands in which.tbe conftittition j fre
had placed it, viz the executive of th* United
- States. TVe latter gemlcman said he had 110 ob- fXc j
- jeftion to echo th« words of the governor, but did j,eu|
s not like the aixblification and the lugging in «n all t h e
occaCons treaty. Mr. CaJ Evans had j en
• no objeiHion to exprefn a defiie for peace, won
- wonld do it in a different way ; he therefore pro- r f( . r
t posed a substitute for tiie motion offered hy Mr. vV ;,|
t Leib, which expiefTed' sorrow that the republic j arc
II of France should have taken offence at the jnII and our
- wife measures of our government to prefervs its «
, neutrality, and ti'vifting upon a fair representation jijj.
i ot the business, tliey would be convinced llte-e was CIC
e given them of "ofFejuf. MriT^Lcili^niid
d Smilie fubllitute (hould be ottcrerl j e . :
e to an ame'ndmeiit to the principle of whicll a. tingle tan
e objc<stion had not been raif»d by the mow of the m() ,
e present amendment. These obferva*ion« cslled f>rth s
I, others from Mr. Eva s, in which he denied that I
it the Ftench Republic had ever rendered ferviae to pj e
is this country that it was the French King who had
it aided us, and that the Republic wis indebttd to a p o
s. this country, for the\ feed of that Liberty wiiich w j
1. was now springing up io France. Mr. Smilie eb- ,
re served in answer that, whaiev«r other gentjemen
ly might feel, he felt a gratitude for the services of
rrt the French N a tion ; and that no one could be of- ( i Q 'j
n- fended with allusions made to the Briiifli treaty, as
Id it was wiflied only, that the moderation a.id
ie desire for pesce" should influence the Executive of
r. the United States now, as upon that occalion.
m The qneftion for a portponement of a decision on
lit the for the purpofc of infrodncing Mr. E
to vans's amendment, was taken by Yeas and Nsys,
)v- and carried 33 to 32.
so Tha debate then turned upon agreeing to the
ey adoption of Mr. Evai s'amendment ; in the coutfc ; m
he oT which the yeas and nays were again called lor. j >J|
1 ; Mr. Wain was very dffirous that Mr. Evans should
lis withdraw bis motion, as he did not wish the house r j c
so to iriteifer* with'a fubjfft which did not properly l,
or belong to them ; if, however, it was put, he (hould
re- vote for it, as lie was convinced the bell way of
preserving peace, was to fuppnrt our own go/ern- I rj|
ment against all foreign nations. Mr. Evans seem- ,j,
ed inclined to withdraw his motion ; but Mr. Smi- j m .
vi- lie, and some others, infilled that the yens and nays iso
nh having been called upon it, the mover had no longer
ue power over it. The fpenker declared this to be a- j
at- greedble to order, when Mr. Frazer, in order to jj R
jet rid of the business, called for the previous
ar- question. Accordingly thf qneftion was put in
ift, this form—Shall the main queltion now be pi t ?
which was decided in the nigativeby one vote only, o j
pe- there beifig 32 member# against putting the main L
be question, and 31 in favor of it. v ;
ide Mi. Frazer then moved an amendment (which tf
it seemed he had unfuccefsfully movc4in a commit- t j,
ten tee of the whole) in a part of the answer which
had -eferenre to the late eleiSion, which was to
strike out the word nectflity and to insert in its
the place one of less strength, in order ,to make the ap
ted probation of the governor's condwft in that bufi
or- ness more equivocal ; indeed Mr. F. declared his
opinion that the governor had afled wrong upon
■ea- the occasion, and that he ought to have proclaimed
as the ele&ion at the time appointed by law. After
some observations from Mr. Smilie in defence of the
the answer as it flood, (it being the usual time of ad- 0
ght joornment) a motion was made and carried to pt»ft- n
fore pone farther consideration of this motion till to- r
monow. ''
on- A resolution was received from the Senate re- i
bu- commending that the governor be requested to ifTue f
pre- a proclamation offering a teafonable reward for the r
hen apprhenfion of any persons guilty of attempting to a
set fire to this city, which was twiec read and a 1
greed to. J
— K"*"
"h
FRIDAY EVfeNING, DECEMBER 13, 175
Kstcm o f for** I J ,j I rjf DO]
for T* J Si; * fc 4 5 r
PRESIDENT 4 v- J|.S -1 !»
VICE-PRESIDENT! * 0»A C$ temp
New-Himpfhire, 6| 6 1 Phil!
Maflachufetts,: - ISII3 a 1
Khode-lfland, 4] 4
CJpn»ei£\iciit, <V 4 $
Vermont, 4! 4
New-York, w lII*
New-Jersey, * 7; 7
Petinfylvania, 1; 114 13
Delaware, 3! 3 I
Maryland, 44! 3 1
Virginia, 1 130 115 31
' Kentucky,
■ T*nneflee, » '
North-CaroVna, 1 6 1 at lv
South-Carolina, ■ S' 8 TH
' Geor S'*» j j to efl
; Total, 71 \s 15' 8 5 £
> n Nor'h-Csrolina, one rote was given fpr Charles
Pinckney, and three for Judge Iredell.
[ y The piece signed '• JOE BUNKF/R" is received, s;)t
- An interview ia requeued wilji the auAor. Thre
® ■■ L j
Married, last evening, by the Rev. Bishop White, 515-
1 Mr. John Ketland, merchant, of this city, to Mils Defe
Henrietta Con/iantia 'Meade, daughter of Geo. Meade, BAf
. Esq. of th;s city.
|! The Selefl and Common yeflerday pafled ,n^u
a resolution, ordering the watch to be doubled, and ~t~~
appointing Commissioners to fee that their duty is" *■+—.
• faithfully performed. The) - have also resolved, that (On
, during the winter, all the lamps are to be lighted, '
.. except during the hours of moonlight.
t' - A
\ The A <5Y pranting Fifteen Thoi'.fand Dollars for the •<-£-
relief of .the of Savannah, pafled the Senate of omm
this Commonwealth thU-diy.
1 The Ice now obftrufh the Navigation of the Dela
» ware.
I
e ExtraS of a letter from Au«ujla,( Georgia*} dated F,
■. November 2(), 1796.
'» "Itis at length ascertained, that what is called
0 j4ckfon's ticket for cleflorrt, has prevailed in this j,
®' state. The Prefldents unfeafenable and unwelcome tov(
II deteh&ion of office carried with it a train of re- ihe
fle&ions-and consequences which could not fail of em
exciting universal oifquietude ; and in fact, appre
a henfions and alarms i» this dilhadlcd extremity of
the union : in the midst of this ferment, the gol
den moment of disorganization was seized tvith
le wonted avidity, and many thotifar.d printed tickets, me
®" secretly issuing from the town of Savannah, were
r * with a celerity suited to such bla?k intrigue, circu " cl
,c lated throughout the several counties, at the eye of
our jeneral cleiytion.
18 " Jackson, Telfair, Abercrotr.bie, Barnett. Un-
J " der thtfe were added their favorite names for Con
as giefs, and such qf their t/dheren's, as could be ob- «
nd ,1>» <ia | e of juftruAinn*. fnr ihe State j n (
, %ifla.tqre. On the J>agk. " this is a true Jf Jtfc
'■ can or Jejfiffotx KeltetySTthe reft are Adams, or
monarchy nJrn.'' This political hydra' win aceom
''' pa 'icd by a Ivand bill fiae.— these were on
!at blnzorivd every eledlion to.tli* extreme per- —
10 plexity of an aftoniflied and confounded multitude.
Thus hss the boasted freedom of our ele£ii»>r>sbtfeii
t0 again afTiiflinatcd, and the aflsfiin again flattered
wi h
" What are we to expect from such a.ftatt of
ien . things ? General Glafcock and C«>l.,Walton, ne-
0 held a very rcfpfOabU poll, and tu> ot
doubt would, otherwise have had trfbch tjus hrghefl bf
88 ntimber of votes." cu
' ' ———— h
THE DpiQNIAC-N«. 111. PJ
on ' a r
E- Extract from the Aurbra of this morning. ltl
y«. <« If ever a nation was debauched by a man, the u
American nation has been debauched by Wa»h- w
(^e INGTON. If ever a nation has fullered from tije
"k improper influence of » man, the American nation f,
or ' has fufFered from the influence of Washington.
If ever a nation was deceived by a man, the A me
rican nation has been deceived b^WASHiNGTuN.
;, 'y Let his conduct then be an exanlpie to future ages. *
L et Jt feive to be a warning that no man may be "
an idol, aud that a people may confide in themfclves ll
;rn " ; rather than in an individual -—Let the history of
fn )* ! the federal government inftrufl mankind, that the p
mi " ! mafqiie of pattiotifm may be worn to conce&l the P
i;4 y s foulell designs against the liberties of a people."
g " I —— f
,0 In Select and Common Councils of the City of f
i" as Philadelphia, 22d December, 1796. J
: — .
ut ? ,i RcfoJyed, That the Mayor be authorized to
"'r. offer a teward of FIVE HUNDRED DOL- <
la ' B LARS for appreheneing and ptofecuting to con
vi&ion perton or persons who may be found at
-I,?k tempting to set site to ar.y part of the eity ; and
that the Mayor be requested to draw an order on
the Tieafurer for the money."
' Extrafl from the minutes,
.ap WILLIAM H. TOD, Clk. S. C. '
SU fi- EDW. J. CO ALE, Clk. C. C.
1 bis * •
ipon
PROCLAMATION,
med —
ifter City ess Philadelphia, ft.
f the WHEREAS the city of Savannah in the state
t ad- ef Georgia hath lately been prestly injured from a
pdft- mod terrible eonflagration, anrf by authentic infor
-1 to- mation from the cities of New-York and Baltimore,
it appeara that attempts hate been lately made to
t re- set fire to those populous and wealthy cities; and
iflvie from certain cir«twnflai»ce» which have lately occur
r the ted in different parta of this city, there is reafpn to
lg to apprehend that thete are persons lurking within its
nd a limit#, who ate instigated with the diabolical design
of fettiag it on fii«. Now, in order t« exert the vi.
; > ...
- gilant attention of ill well peHonl to >
, and bring to punilhment funh attrociouj incendimVs,
I Hilary Baker, Mfcyorof t!»« said city of Phila*
delphia, in ptirfnance of the foregoing refoltttioi*
of the Seleftand Common Councils of the fw ci-r,
- do hereby reward of FIVE HUNDREH
DOLLARS, to be pni'd to any j *. n, or per-
son« who fhatl apprehend atx! prosecute to conviftf-
I on, any person or persons who may be found at'
tempting to set fire to any part of the said city of
Philadelphia.
' Given On<?er my hand, at Philadelphia, the
1 twenty-third of December, Avno-
Domini One Thousand Seven Hundred
and Ninety-Six.
HILARY BAKER,
Mayor of the fait? City »f PUiladelpliia
-6? W AL N U T WARD. '
The Citizens of this Ward are desired to met-
I at Mr. StkphEns's Tavern, in Walnut Snetf,
THIS AFTERNOON, at 4 o'clock, in order
to establish a Patrol, to prote& the City against th*
~ I attempts of Incendiaries.
| December 13.
:«I j ■ 11 11
STOCKS*
MS!* percent. • - .... ifylro to tj
j Three per Cent. ------ - lljb
I per Cent. - xtf
e, |s\ ferCent. --- -- - - - Iy4
fs j Deferred Six per Cent. - - - - lift to 12/9
e, BANK United Stales, - - - 19 to 10 per-t
j—— Psnufylvaiiia, - - - • 13 to 24 do.
I North America, - - - - 40 to 45 do. J
>( j I Insurance Ccmp. N. A. shares, » 37 *-®to 40 per ct.
1 -f Per.nfylv. a 1-4 to J per et. below par,
isT- r COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
at I On London, at 30 days, par to I7J
d, ; at 60 days, pat to 170
I at 90 days, l 6» 1-# to ptf.
I 60 days, per guilder. 40
he I 90 days, 41
r ■!
Pantheon,
AND RICKETTS'j AMPHITHSJTM.
I Corner of Chefnut and Sixth-flreets.
cd I For Equestrian andSTAGt pE*r®RMAt»ct-#»
cd FRIDAY EVENING* December »J*
''' I MR. RICKETTS, anxious to contribute bis mit*
I towards relieving the diftrtfied, refpeflfully informs
re- I the Ladies and Gentlemen of Philadelphia, that th«
of I emoluments of this evening will be devoted
" f For the Benefit of the Sufferers at
©I. I Savannah.
ith I #y Doors to open at 5, and the Performances to comr
rts, I mence at a quarter after firo'cloct.
ere I * m * The days of performances, to be Monday, Wed*
cu j nefday, Friday and Saturday.
:of '? Wafhi.ngton Lottery.
I TICKETS, ■warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
• I exchanged for prizes, at the Oflice, No. 147, Cbefnut
ob" I street, where a correS Numerical Book is kept for publi:
.ate 1 i n r pc aipn. A'fo Canal Lottery Ttckats for falc or ex
blfel 1 hunanii far.prijcci diaw* in the Waibtngew.-!>««*«« y**
"or I which the 46th and 47th days returns are received.
igf Ihe Bufmcfs of a Broker carried on a* usual.
V A SHARE it. tl* NEW THEATRE to be fo»4
' ere | on- reasonable terms. December i.f. ttstf
l"t.\ SW ANN'S
fft-n J Riding School, Horse Atademy & Infirmary.
•red Adjoining the Public Square, Market Street.
T. SWANN
tof RETURNS his sincere thanks toti.ofe gentlemen by whom
ne . I he has been employed, during his relideocc ia this City, and
I Battershimfelf thit the focccfs of his rtjoitl, in the numerous,
Q * r j obftinaie and dangerous Afeafr* in Horses, in which he nas
heft been cnnfulted, together with his moderste charges, will if
cure their futurefavjrs and recommendation.
He now begs leave to lnfoim them snd the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premifot, ere£ted for th«
purposes above defcr-bed are-open for the reception of pupil*
of either sex, wlio-wifhto bfinftru&rd in the Art of Riding,
and the light method of governing thetr horses, so as to ridle
them with cafe, elegance, and fafety—their horfos will be
carefully and expeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and
, the made obedient to the will of the riders ; the natural powers
UH- which are Ihui up in them, will he unfolded byart, calling
the f° rt b uoilormity ot motion, and giving to that noble animal
1 . aH those beauties of attion which providence has so bounti
"loo fully beflowed on them.
TON. Also, at bis hospital. every disorder to which the horse i(
i me-' liable will be Heated Recording to the roles of art, confirmed
by long and repealed expeiience.
ruN - The utility of the aboveiaftit'>tion has never beenqneftion-
JgCS. Ed, that it has long been wanted in this city, ever<f gentlemau'a
ybe Hud will manifeft, and T. SwAHNas thefctfl eftahlUber of
elves l be veterenary art, (blictts and relies upon the fuppott of that
r public (which he is ever anxious in fervine) to enable him to
T biiagit to perfection. The idea of » fuofcription for that
t the purpose has beeu hinted by £fveralj{entleman, who wish t*
promote the institution—the amount of esch fabfcrip'mn to
~ be returned by services in any of the departments he profeflcs»
agreeable to the rate of charges slated in his hand bill. Such
ftibfcription is now open, and the flgnaiurec of many refpeft
able gentlemen already obtained. He therefore informs hi#
„ 0 f friends and furfc Ladies and pe,\tlesnen to wjiom he has not
i'le honor of being knowp, ttjat lie fhal i in a few days tak*
the liberta of waiting upoo then\»nd following their support
and proteflion.
rd to NB. Horses sre properly prepared for thofc Ladies and
• OL- Gentlemen who wish to be inflru^pd-
Nov. 5. tthdef.
con-
' dal - FOR SALE,
er'on A very Valuable Eilate,
CALLED IWITTENHAH, situate in the
townfliip of Upper Derby, andcountyof Delaware,
7 1-a miles from PNiad lphia, and half a mile from the
s. C. new Weflcrn road: containing 430 asres of excellent laud-,
45 of which are eood-watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable tb« firft quality. There are
on the preoiifesa good two story bilckhoufe, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pu(j»p-w*lt
of excellent watet 1 in frout; a large frame barn, fiabh
and other convenient buildings ( a fm«ke-ho«fe and ft one",
a spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and p<;acl -
f «s. The fields are aOin clover, except thflfe immeditiUlf \
rom » tillage, and are so laid out as to havt the advantage
infor- of water i» each of them, which cg;-.-
mcte, venient for grazing. . 1 .
j .. The situation is pleafent-andhealtihjr,',a*i korfrfhebi R h
1 eultivationof the laud, the gogd and tl »
»an vicinity to the city, H k fuiMble for a gqntleoun'i
occur- coun try font.
tfon te The foregoing is part of the ettate of Jace»
bin itl dece&fed, and offered for sale by .
design Mordecai Lewis,
thevi- OA* Ji. law Sun-iying E»«ute,I FOR SJLE,
A PLANTATION,
A B <WI r» miles from this City, situate in Abington
iownftip, Montgomery-Cosr-ty ; containing 70
seres,anew stone houfe,tw o ftoricß high, % roonib wi v
■ oor, fire places in each, a ftonekitchtn and {lone lpring
J!*, • ° v ? r an fccellent spring of water, a baru, stable, ,
e s,baffacks, &c. A Targe apple orchard, and a vaiiety (
0 ot, ' tr f ru it, about 11 acres ot good n>cadow well water- ,
® irlr vvoo( * for fire, aud fencing the place. ,
Follcffion may be had the ill of April next. Property in
this City will be taken in exchange. Enquire at No. 17,
Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, September 13,1796. ttftf ' .
r O BE SOLD,
A LEASE for seven ye,irt,fram the '2.5/ i March next, in that
tapital tiqd beautiful FARM, called
P R O S P E C T-H I L L,
Situated within one quarter of a mile from ihe Braiidywisc |
Mills, and Haifa mile ftom the borough ol Wilmington. ,
1 dwelling house u Luik of Hone, two fturies high,
geiitecly finifned, and contains four handfomc rooms on
a floor, betides an entry, with capital garrets, znicunvenieiit
cellars It is geneiaity thought to com/liana the mofla
gri<eab!i profr>e& of the Delaware, from the fou'ee of that
nvtr to the Capes. This profpet"; ia greatly einbtllifhed by
a full view of a vast body df meadow, through which the
fhrifiiana and Brandywine creeks are fern winding in beao- '
tiful meanders. Near ihc house are a Kitchen, a spacious 1
flone liable and hay loft, a barn, a carriage house, milK
houfe,&c. and a weli oif as puie water as any on the conti
nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land, a
boundine with fru«, ? nd particularly wi:ri peach trees, of
t he very bed kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear
ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a young, apple
orchard begining to bear, and leveral old trees that produce
abundantly, besides cherry and other ornamental trees, ,u
jreat numbers. The farm confifls r.f nrar sixty acrcs ol land,
of good quality, and clear of ineurnbunctf, exccpt taxes,
twenty of which arenow in excellent clover and timothy, 1
and ten more will be ready for sowing next spring. A ie
fidericeot lieatly 8 yean iias convinced the fublctiber that t
the lunation is remarkably healthy. The great poll load fc
"from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within seventy t
yards of the house. In a woid, the bea.itits and conveni-. t
•tlce of this situation e»itnot be enumerated in an advertise- I
•ment,and wheo examined, will piobably command the at- e
lention of any person who is of living at ofie of the
Oioft elegant country feats on the continent. The pure hafer a
tnav enter on the premifi s nest spring, or perhaps, this fall, ,
if application be immediately made to DoHor NICHOLAS o
"WAY, in Philadelphia, to Doftjr WH ' R I OAI, on t! e
premises, or, in his abfencc, to Mr. GEO.xGli TRUI IT, its r
Wilmington. f:
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, some ''
Stock, &c. may be had by the purchaser at the time of sale.
Nov. 7 eodtf
" —1 . . N
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth-Jfreet,
RETURNS h;s grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for thwir liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to foliclt a continuance of their favors. *■
He has on hand an extensive aiiortment of rhe l ;
Mojl Fashionable GOODS, c
And of the best quality, suitable for th» season. fe
At this shop Gentlemen can be furnifhed withthe best bi
material*, and h»ve them made up in the neatest and'molt
Fashionable manner, and on the shortest iiatice. He will w
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a .prompt and d
punctual attention! to them. w
November ro. . w , r
■" " m
The Elephant
IS RETURN-ED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are rtfpectfully informed, that
thi6 animal is to be'leeri every day, from 8 ~
o'clock in the morfiing till fun down, in Market
ftreet, No. 106. foutfl fide, between Tliird and
Fourth-ftieets. * ,
Admittance a quarter of tt dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
Cfr" At the reqoeft of many persons it will be
-exhibited on evenings from five to eight o'clock, jt
at half a dollar -each—The room will be well
lighted. . November 7.
Treasury of the United States.
Vl OTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
i\ may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
©f the F •nded Debt t or Stock, bearing a present mtercji tif Jix |
ter eentvm per •annum.
lft, That purluantto an Aft of Congrtfs parted on the
aßth day of April, I796,intitlcdan aft in addition to an
aft, intituled " An aft making further provision for the
support of public crtdit, and for the redenintion of xhe
public debt," the said Jebt or ilockwill be reimVirfedand
paid injnanner foHowing,to wit. " First, by dividends 1
" to be made on the lall days of March, June an J Septan- —
"* ber for the prefout year, and from the year one tiioufaiui I
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou-> j
" faild eight hundred & eighteen inclufrve, at the rate of
" one and one half per centum upon the original capital. j
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lafl day of
" Detember for the present year, ind from the year one
**' thouland seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year Xi
" one thousand eight hupdred and seventeen inchifive, at yj
" the rate ps three and one half per eSntiifn lipoh (%c ori
ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ipa eon the lafl' 9r
" das of December, in the year one thousand eight hun- an
*' dred and eighteen, of filch s um, as will be ffien a le
" quare, according to 'the conrraft, for the final redemp- V ai
" tion of the said stock." j- v
sd. All difliinftion between payments on account of f ro
m'm/t and Principal being thus abolished by the eflabjiihj -jt;
menr of the permanent rule of reimbursement abovo de
yrjbed, it has become ncciHa'ry to vary accurdingly the the
jiijwen of attorney for receiving dividends; t!u public the
reditors therefore obi'erve that the following form A
s eftablifhedior all powers of attorney which may be the
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz. w j
KNOIV ALL MEN ST THESE PRESENTS, that Us
•I of
Jo male, Ttnfitutc and appoint ol<
*/ . my true andtawful At- afti
t»rney,for me ,ani!in-ny name,.to reeeh: tie divila-Js \ui.ch are, iftn
or Jtall be payable according to lazv, on the (hers describing the dra
ftock)landing in my name in the booti of {here defcriPiMig. the the
looks of the Tx-eafurr or the Commiflioncr of hoans, the
where the flock is credited) from (here insert the com- jug
Biencement and expiration of thnc for which the power of '
attorney is to coßtintie) tvith pmver also an attorney or attcr* are
■mies under him, fc,r that purpose to mate endfubjlhute, audio do all of
. lawful aft' >H"if'tefor effeSting thepremifri, hereby ratifying and m»
confirming all that my said Attorney or hitfubjiitute ,fball U-wful. 1
ly do, by virtue hereof E J IC
//» Witness hereof, I have hereunto fit rpy Hand and Seal ibl Hoi
■**y intbevear a ft
Sealed and Velivertd " er
in presence of, \ f r ; el
ME IT KNOWN,that on the day ef jest
afire me perfinally came ' £
•within named and actmruledged the abrve tetter of attorney to he Col
Us aft and died. I av
In teflimony whereof I have hereunto fit my Han land affix- dra
ad Seal the day and year la[t caul
•Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen- ths 1
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions
from the Secretary «f the Treasury
SAKIUEI. MEREDITH, Jam
'Ireafurer of the United Statu. of J
July*}.
tlj I Coo
' k
i■' . ■ ■
Territory of the I trite.{ S tts, X. IV. of tht Olio.
TdrSier p
»ton v - /• Foreign attachment.
'70 Paxker. 3 ,
<*} >■' Notice is hereby given,
To JOSEPH PARKh.R, late of Kalkafk.a in
1 } ' c » couaty of Randolph, in the llcwitory aforefnid, M«r
ietT client, that in pursuance of the laws of the rerritory in
tcr " that cafe provided, foreign wttachmwnt h«.th ifTued out of
ace. t ] ie county court of common picas of the said : coouty,
r 111 againfc the lands and teijeir ents, poods, cfeattcU
37» fetli, rights and credits of the said Jofepli Parker, at the
luit o George Turner, Efq are ; and tnatjjnlefs thefaid
Parker appear by lviinfclf, or Attorney, to eive
lpecial bail so fucli suit, judgment by default will be en
t red agaihu'h,im, at the court to be held in and for the
that county, nest, ??fter the expiration of twelvemonths
from this tlatie ; and the estate or estates so attached, wr!!
beftld for the farisfa of all -creditors, who ftiall ap- 1
■pear to be jußly intitled to a domind thereon, and shaH
vt«c appjy for th?c purpnle. l>.ite l :it Kiikafkia, aforefaid,
"• this twenty-mnt'li of f'larch, 17^6.
JOcIW RrjE JONES, Attorney for Plaintiff
ajLV Horses taken in,
tl > ,t For the Winter Seafvtu,
t'e 011 c ' ovcr h »X at Subicrilierj plice, u
caa- n on Bristol Rtyd, where good {tabling is pro
iouj and great care will b» taken of them
lU - ' William B?!l.
n, _' Nov. mWfawmtlnf.
) a- ■—'*««»'n 1 - — — . ■ . —
ear Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South SsCCXD STKF.KT.
nd, r T r ICKETS in <&e Canal Lottery, No. 2, for fale—>ti 1
ices, -**■ Ch-ck Book for examination —and prixes paid iii
the late lottery. (
rc . Check Books i k ept for examination and r »i{h;ring, for 1
hat the City ot VValhiiigton, NO. 2, and Pattefon l-otteries,
01H both of which are now drawing—'i'nfor;iiation where
nty tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
:ni-. tickets. A cr.mptece lift df all the prizes in rhe late New
i(e- Port Lpng-Wharf, Hotel and Public Schcot Lottery, for
at- fcxaminatioV.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public *
,. r and lus friends, who wiP.i tA purcljaf'e er fell Bank Stock,
a "' Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Honfot, Lands,
t" e C ' or to lolu T on deposit of property.
j rk A!fb 1 ickets iri the Schuylkill Lottery for n
1 sale at Ten JDoUers eadi, which will be drewn early hi J
me the Spring. y c
• Wm. Blackburn.
Phrladelphia, Augu/l »8, 1796. mth
Brokers Office, and
his COMMISSION STORE.
tit No ' South Third street. opposite the national new Batik.
Q AM-OEL M ERAUNtfiS and JOHN VAN REED, j 2
O into co-partnership, under the firm of j
I'RAUNCES & VAN RKED, in t'he business of Brokers, !
Ctinvey*ncers;>ndComiiiiflion merchants. They buy and 1
fell on-commiffion every fpecics of stock, notes of Ivmd, 4
billi of exchange, houses and lands, &o.
oft MoxtypriScured on dspofits, &c. See. all kinds t< 6
nil writings in the conveyancing line, done with neMnefs and
nd dispatch ; accounts adjuffsd, -and fettled, in the 11
1110 ft correct manner. Conllant attendance wHI be grven. Cl
Th«y solicit a'fhau. of the public favor ; they are deter- ' c
" mined to endeavour to deserve it. tc
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
S UIUEL M, rRAUNCES, n
JOHN VAN REED,
at fhilad. A-ugufl 17, 1796. m&wtf . «<
: g ~ ' m
:t- City cf Walliington. ( °
SCIIEME cf LOTTKRY, No. 11,
:i- FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 I THE
FEDERAL CITY.
e A magnHicent )at 5,000 dollirs, & 7
"•> (dweliing-houfe, J cash 30,000, are 5 900
-11 I ditto 15,000 & calk 25,0150 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
- I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,0e0 & cafli 5,000 10,000
ns 1 cash prize of 10,000
r tx ~ ado. 5,000 carfi, are • 10,000
-lo do. 1,000 - - 10,000
le 10 do. 5«o - - in,two tu
in 00 t^o, 100 * * 10.000 .
, s t-yo do. 50 - - 10,000
le 4CO do. 15 - - 10.000 y
id 1,000 do. ao » 20,000
js 15,000 do. >Io - rj«!,ooo .
td 16,739 Prizes. ,nc
Hoite R!ank«.
of fu
'• 50,000 Tickcts, at Eight Dollars, _
of ____
lc N. B. Tofavour those who niay t?.\e a quantity of
!r Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars.will be (he x/. fa drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but oKr.i
1- And appro'ted rotes, fecuriiig payment in either n»n«y
ft »r prize*, in ten days alter drawing, will be received foi C„
1- any number not less than 30 tickets.
i" This Lottery NvHlafford an elajjar.t fpeciracn of thepri
p- vate buildings to be ere&ed in the Cily of Wcifliingttm
Two beautiul deligne are already fcf'aed for the entire
' fronts on two of the public ftj-aares j from tl.cle prtwiugj Fo
13 itispropofedtnerecitwo centre and fopr comer hnildings,
e- as soon as pofllble after this lottery 'is fold, and-to convey !
>• them, wheu complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in !
K the mannerdefcribed in flie fcl.eme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of lifepw cent, will be made to defray
>e the necessary expeufcs of printmg, rile fcrpltt*
wjll be made a part of the fund intended for the National
ot Univeifity, to be eiocled wititin the city of Wafsiin. g ton.
The Drawing will commence a? soon as the tickets are
old off.—The money prizes will brpayable in thirty days
t- after it is finifhed; and any prize# for which' fortunate
e, iftnnbers aie nut produced within twelve moi.tlnafter ths
ie drawing "is closed, are to be coiifidsrcd as given towards
e the fund for the Univeifity ; it being determined to fettle
s, the whole business in a year from\the erldiiig of the dxaw
- J u g> an< l to tijee up the bonds given as fccurity.
if The real fecurit I*% given for Sie payment of the Prizes, 9,4
are held by the Prcfident and two XJireaors of the Bank
It of Columbia, and are valued at more than hrif the a
d mount ot the lattery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commissioners aflifled in the management of the
.» Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake thu arduous talk !
a second time 011 behalf of the public ; a fafßcient num
ber bf thefc kindly accepted, it ishwped-that the " cl
friends to a National Uiiivcrfity and the other federal ob
je-fts may continue to favor the design. '
By accounts received from tiie .diflerent parts of the
t Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets 7°.
have been f.nt for sale, the public ape afTurcd that the
- drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and bel
caution unavoidably necellary to insure a fa'fe disposal of j
- th« tickets, has rendered the foort suspension indlfpenlabU.
s SAMUEL BLODGET. ' A bc
•§. Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of i ng
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Oilman, Boston : are
of John Hopkins, Richnvmi ; and ef Richard Wells' teii
Cooper's ferry. C 8 (
Bank of X'orth America.
9 THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an
<ele£Hon for twelve Diieilor's lor the ensuing year will be
held at the J3ank on Mojiday the 9th 6f January at ten
o'clock.
v) RICHARD WELLS, Cafcien
«r- Dec- J.
in — 1 * " ~~
of Washington Canal Lottery,
I' NO. r.
he "TTrHER.EA9 the State of Maryland has authorised
id VX the underwritten, to rail: twenty-fix thmufand,
vc two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
n- a Canal through the City of Washington, fro>n til Co
he toinac to the liailern Branch Hatvour.
hs The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
ill Viz -1 Prize ot 20,000 dollars, 40,000
p- I ditto 10,000 in,OOO (
iH 7 last drawn 7 • .
d, Tickets, each J S ' 35,
6 ditto 1,060 6,000
to ditto 400 4,000
20 ditto 100 " 1,000
jj ditto JO 4,750
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,25® '
3- 5850 Priz«s, 175,000 1
irfjo Blanks, not two to a prize.
_____ i
I7JCO Tickets, atTcn Dollars, - 175,000
The Conimiffioners havu taken the Securities re 1
quired by the afore'faid aisl for the pandlaai payment o!
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as so.m as tlv Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
[ h Such prizes as arc not demanded in fixmonths after thf
drawing is finifhed, fnall be considered as relinquiftled for
)r the beueat'»f the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
3 (Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG, i
e DANIELCARRQLL, tfD. c
n' LEWIS DEBLOIS, r
G£OKGE WALKER,
ir Wm. M.DUNQANSON, *
THOMAS LAW,
•c t JAMES BAIiKY.
City of Wathtegftou, Feb. 11. $
s, " : a
Paterion Lottery. «
r railing fix thousand fix hundred and 'sixty-seven c
a 1 doll.tr- and fifty cents, by a deducliou of fifteen jier a
cent from the prizes, yd not two blanks to a prize. *iz J"
I Trize ef 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
* 1000 1000 a
i 500 / 500 I
5 500 40C0
20 10Q HOOP
99 50 i?9s°
100 2J 5000
' [ 4000 IO 10,000
f j J Last drawn numberi ef -1000 dollars each, 5000 |
J 433» Prizes. 44.4J0 ,
4018 Blanks.
> , ci
1 <350 TlckMs at Seven Dollars each, 44,450 .
j By order of the Directors of the Society for cfKMiftr
. ing UfefulManulaftures, the luperintendauts of the Pat
crfon Lottery hare reqUested the Managers to offer the
. foregoing Scheme to the'public, and have directed them 81
to refund the mon«y to thofc persons who liave purchased ,
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets C
ft this Lottery. w
I'he lottery has'acftually commenced drawing, and witl .
continue until Enifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be fetal at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 63
south Second street, who willgiveinformationMhcrr tfiS
,ets may he Y'f' nmrrA. — - *
Z73te!rtlTih 17til day of June, 1796.
y. n- gumming, •) ? c
JACOB R. HARDENS ERG, > Manors. ,
:JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
'I Prize of 5000 , - - - 5000 &
I 1000 ... 11000 rfi
I 500 - - , JUO
S SOO 1000 f x
20 ICO - . 2000
90 JO 4500 r
t6 S 4j . . 4IIJ [='
'I he five hft drawn tickets, iotso e<.ch, ' joco
Jeing all the valuable prizes, besides a full proper- —
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is considerably more than oire third
dwwn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly increased, and it is worth the noticc of tfeofe ' "N
who hold tickets in theold fcl)eme, that they can ex
change iJic-ir tickers for thole in the above, if they ap- ! un .
ly soon, and .at a moderate advance coivftdering the u '
now real value of an undrawn ticket. "" sot
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in J"
future will be oftener, and the Lottery soon finiflied. ?'
November 12- mw* p"
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery. ' Pu
Fo
Sold ly WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Scctmd-flrcct..
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, R
Foriaifuig Sixty Thousand Dollars, agietably to an Aftol me
the Leg'fliture of Pcn*lylvjKia, pali'ed during the !»!) liifi
lemon, tor building a Stone Bridge over the River pol
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of bet
n 11 ■
Of ■f „ U«U»r».
1 Prue of «0.000 Dollar. . 20)00a ,
» do. of .0,000 do. . . 10i0oo
3 do. of do. - . . ISiOCo
4 do. of 2,000 do. . y
«do. Of ~ooodo. - . . P««
39 do. of 500 do. - . lo , oa 1
80 do. of 200 do. . . . ,! >OOO <
too do. of too do. . e » ooc
300 °[ 5° <\°. . , iio3o :
I CO, ot 500 no. to be paid the poflef- > 1
for«f tiie firil drawn no. J 00
5 do. of 3,000 do. to be paid pofTcffors >
of the 6ve Wt drawn tios V I s> ooo for
9,400 do. o 1 S do. : . 141,000 troi
— adv
10.054 Pri/.rs 300,000 at 1
Hianks J 5 pro
ah i> • n 3°' ooo Ticket* at Ten Dollars 506,000
All Fuzes (hall be paid fifteen days after (he dra wing „ thal
fuufhed, upon the demand of a pofleflor of a fortunate bv
nckei, lubjtxt to a dcdu£lion of twenty per cent. The r
Drawing v. ill commerce as soon as the Ticket, are difpofr. ? r
ot, or perhaps f.ooer, 6f which pnblic notice will be given. „
Phijip Milhf, Peter Kerjuaer, William Wit man,
Joseph Htejhr, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas, oft]
Janet May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel CraeJ,
Sebajhan Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May thegtb,' i;g6. ■
Ttcket. in the Canal Lottery, No. 4, to be had at the ~
above office where the earli.il information of the draw- r, B
ing of the Washington No. a, and,. Patterfon l.otterv's
are received, and cjieci books for examination and rciif'
termg are kept. ®
° aobtr ,awtf
4 I
T '
Le Breton,
1 b" SURGEON-DENTIST,
ten Pu P'' of th , e c D e!cl ";»' ed Mr. Dubois, !«e Dentist to ,] ,
K,pg and Roy,! Family of France, member of,, .
College and Academy of Surgeons at Paris v
* Keeps a complete afTortment of every thing „' ca •.'
to be used for the " •
Preservation of the Mouth and Tect!.
P atcilt Minora! Teeth, and Human 5c Ivory T ■
Dentrtfice ia powder; Opiate; rxcetlent F'i. -
, sweetening the mouth and prefervins the ,- i '
lnd ' *Ub furniChes Brufhe* and foft SpoS
Ptf t *** lives Chefutit-ftreet, No. x>-
10 Fourth-ilreet. iS ' * bt!V * .
November 26.
— Jts.
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL wiilopen hisfchoo
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut S
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from ro to i
on Mondavi, Wednesday, and Friday morning - ir
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenis
the fame days. ,
In addition to a number of new eotillio*s, he is - a ,
introduce a variety of Scotch Reds.
Note. The firft pra<ftifiug ball to be on TWcUy e
re veiling, the firft of November, and to be contihusd everr
0 j Tucfday, during the /eafaii. '
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, N0.134, Mark l N
rat reet
ri* OA - * 7 ' tthf^
:h« A Manufactory FOR SALE.
For
f- A Valuable SO VP and CANDLE Manufaflorv, fiju-t
---ln a convenient part of the city ; the works afeio«*Ww
D. $n an entirely original conftruftio*, and builiofihe bdi
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Perlm.j
who Willi to purcba(e, are wtjuefted to apply « Ji} o 2 -.
South Sccond Street. -September 13. tt < if'°'
Twenty Guineas Reward
RANAVVAY froai-the fubferiber 011 the lid OAoYv
-i a MULATTO BOY, named MOSES- 2, yZi
old; about J feet 8-nichesiiigh; had on a g ,ecn '
m coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow butto: •
Kr A griped veil ; a pair of-daric ported a;\
whole boots much worn. 5t is probable hf may chaiw
00 his nanle and rfrcft ' bec " **™ftomed t« '
oq a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will fee .
paid for securing him so that the fubferiber may set hnn
* 0 again, and if brought home all renTonable eharjes^paidf
00 -Robins Ch amber lei ne.
JO F.a(Von, Maryland, Tlov. 10. 14"^ wnjawtf
j 0 ' 1 - ' —
Samuel Richardet
D EKPECTFULLY informs the Gentler-^
Merchants, that he "has this day opened the C : i f
TAVERN and MERCHANTS OOFKEEHOUSE ,' ;hi
city of Philadelphia:
The Subscription Room will be furni'fhcd with all the
daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York,
c t°n. Baltimore, together with thofeof the principal con -
mercial citi«s of Europe—They will be rtgftlarly fiieJ '
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
d Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
ts cf . Prcnc!l Liq» or s; together with the usual ttiteOsikoslv,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
ill Gentlemen may dep'Jtid on being accommodated with
the choiccft of Wines, Spirituous l.iquors, and the r:cl"l
. approved Malt Liquors lrontLondort aud other breweries.
£■ befupplied with the prime and aarhell
produiftions ol the Sotfon.
«nd finall-Parties, or fittgle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated v.-ith Breatfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, ,t
6 . ho,,r , s n l oi l convenient to themselves—a cold Oollation is
forc( """ ft> * w «y» «ht »iUof fare to be had
The Togging Rooms will he completely ftirnifhed, ar.J
0 the utmost attention paid to clearnlinefi, and every o'ti cr
0 re.quifite.
o \musl Richardet will behappy to receive and
D execute the commands of -his Friends, and the Public at
0 ' 4 . r «'i, iU ! d with . for their favours, he pk.l, ■,
Q that nothing «i his part fiialibe wanting to r»« -
fcrvethat patronage with which he has been so diiliniruifc-•
J tngly Honored. I
° IJ| ~'il*-l< Iphia. April IQ. mw f 1 -®j
j Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
e M° T > CE ishcreb y that proposals will be ro
- . tcivod at the office of the Secretary <jf this XrcafurT
_ I until the expiration of the firft day of March next cn
c | luing, for thc supply of all rations which may he rotjuirctl
j for the use of the States, from the firfl day of
1 June, 1797, to the thirty-firll day of May, 1798, both
days inciufive, at the places acd within the diflri&s hew
after Mentioned, vit. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
I jefoue lfie; at Sandufty Lake, and on Sanduiky
River; at Detroit; at Michilipiackinac; fit Fort-Frank- 1
Mn; it Pittsburgh; at Cincinnati at Fort-Hahailtoß;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-jsfferfon; at "Crcnville; at
Picque lown and l.orajaics Stottj; at Adamn; at '
Fort \Vayl4e; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below Fort
Deftance ob tkc Miami lUvcr toJEriex_at I'wit
' Steuben,; at FortMalTac ; at any-place ftomFort
to the south boundary of the United States on the civer
MilTifippi ; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If fuj»plies (liail be required lor any posts or places not
I mentioned in thi%,noria , all such fajiplies ihall be fur- - f
} niihod at prices proportioned to those to be paid at tf.e
r pofis before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed yn
f between the United States and the Contractor.
I he rations to be Tupplied arc to confifl ©f the fcl
> lowing articles, via.
' One pound two ounces of Iwead or flour.
1 One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
* pork or bacon.
' Half a gill of rum, bran4y or whiskey*
One quart and half a pint of fait.-)
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( , , .
Two pounds of Soap, per hundred fattens
One pound of Candles, J
The rations to be furfcifhed inl'uch quantities, ast' At
rfiere ihall at all times during the said term, be fuflight
for the conlbmptioßof the troops ut Michiiimackinac, l)u
---troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month • p
advance, and at each of the other polls, for the tqi'Hi of
at least three months in advance, in and wliolef' n--
provisions, ii shall be required. It is to br. 1.
derOood, that t lie is to beat the ar-d
rtflc of-ilßiirg the fupplws to the troops at arch poli, 1
that all losses sustained by the depredations of an ens-.v-v "
by means of the troops oi the United State*, fr ill fcf! -
or price oi tte articles captured or —, < ]
tKc depofttioHs of two or mote perfotis«f rrcibta'>K : - ; V
racers, and the certificate of a commifuoncd oliii. r, •
ctrtaining the circumstances of tbe lxrfs, and the in.t....:
of the ai ticks for which compenfatioa lhall beclaiiiKxl
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treafi ry- ?
. • .
—-M | . . . M
PRINTED BY JOHN FE N I i •
—No. 119 —
CHESStIT.JTStIt.
[Priec Fight j)olki» ptr' Abo am.