of the & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
\ -
N&mbsji 1335.] / MONDAY" EVENING, DECEMBER 19, 1796. \Vqlvme X.
United States, ">
Pennsylvania DiftriA. j C
IN PURSUANCE of a writ to me dire&ed from the ho
noruable Richard Peters, Efqmrt, Judge of the Dif
tri& Court of the United State# in and for the Pennsyl
vania diftri&, hearing date the l6th inft. will be fold
by public au<stieo, at the Merchants' coffee-houfe, in
the city of Philadelphia, on the 2lit infU at 12 o'clock
at noon :
The ship or veflel called the Eagle,
with all and Angular her tackla, apparel and furniture :
the fame having been condemned in the said Court, for th«
paynfieftt of mariners' wages, &c.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marflul.
Marfhal's-Office, 17th Dec 1796. d
United States, ") -
t *Pennsylvania Diftridfc. $ Ct "
IN PURSUANCE of a writ to me directed from the ho
nourable Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of theDif
triit Court of the United States in and for the'Pennfyl
vania riiftri&, bearing date the 16th inft. will be fold
by public au<flion, at the Merchants' coffee-houfe, in
the city of Philadelphia, on the 21ft inft. at 12 o'clock
at no >n :
The schooner or veflel called the San
tiago de Cuba, with all and Angular hr tackle, apparel
and furniture : the fame having been condemned in the
said Court, for the payment of mariners' wages, &c.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marshal.
MarfhalVOffice, 17th Dec. yp6. d
For Boston,
7he br 'X NILPT UN E,
W?'-* : James Town, Matter,
Lying at Wilcocks's wharf, will fail
with all convenient fpeed—Fof freight or palfage apply to
the mailer on board, or No. 76, North Front Street.
Dec. 13. ___ __
For Sale,
Jf— The Ship A D ELAI DE, -
* Of York.
j Lying at thrfubicriber's wharf—bur
fc h en 220 tons, |he a stout well built
5 veflel, wa- built by the day for a House
in New York,under the infpe&ion of a •lerfon concerned
in hiT— has been only one voyage to London and,Charlef
ton and fails fatter than any veliel out of the port of New-
York.-—Apply to
WILLIAM BELL.
Who has received by the said /hip from Charleston—
Tierces frefti Ricc, and a few calks of Ground Nuts.
Dec. 6. $xt.
*—1" 1 '""
For Sligo and Killibegs,
Mfwl mer ' Can Ship N/iNcr,
Cutbbert Riggs, matter.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or phflage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflorted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and 2 boxes Linens
15 Pipes Brandy .
Madeira Wine ; Indigo . Rliffia Matts,
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, mwftf
FOR SALE,
tM)L THE SHIP MARY,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
Jfc-ssiaS f wo hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is notfold in afew days, foe will take
freight <or Hamburg, Apply as above.
C V-be- - <1
For Charter,
Tke Ship JOHN BULK ELY,
Ayres Stocklfy, Mailer.
IB' 'i tfxce " ent live-oak and cedar built
of about 3000 barrels burthen.—Ap
feffe £sf Robert Wain.
Nov, ' d.
For Sale, or Charter,
The Ship DIANA,
©iSatel Samuel Pile, Master,'
Burthen 105 47-95 torn register, built in
Si -i r '2y7 Philadelphia in the year 1791, of live oak
and red cedar, and was sheathed 13 months ago, file
has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be sent to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin trf Co.
who have for sale on board said vejel,
47 calks of fine yellow paint.
q boxes and 12 bundles of writing dates.
1 box ink stands and note prefles.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial ~)
Hyson, and, f TEAS.
Souchong J
40.000 pieces Nankeens of the fkft quality.
19 tui>s Quicksilver.
% chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chests Mancheftcr goodswell aflorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dinai<i£s, &c.
3 boxes black feeing silk.
ifco crates Queens ware well aflorted.
10 tons (heet lead. _ •
Nails assorted, flat and scarp points.
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes
London Maj ket, r an( j hoglheads.
New-York Market, J 6
40 pipes and 10 hogsheads Tenenffe wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
43 Nov gS 7 Mah<>g4ny ' tth&ftf
For Sale,
By "Jehu Hell:ngfworth, & Co.
15 hhds. Rum, 3d and 4tK proof,
5 Barrels'beft Indigo, and,
A few thousand bushels of Turk's lfland fait.
oa. 17.
Old London particular Madeira Wine,
J andine from on board the barque Eagle, Capt. Bates,
ird for sale by ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, S«uth Wharves.
Novamb«r 29. «odtf
BANK NOTES
Lofl, in Dock or Second-streets between Pole's au£ion
room and rolled in a bill of sales for fur
niture. The finder (if will be f© good a3 fend
notice to the Printer, or to the person in whofi name the
bill is made. d3t Dec. 16.
Elegant Brufiels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, No. 25, South Third-street.
December 15. dtf
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOB SON,
No. is. South Third-Jlreet,
Has just received, per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lon
don, an aifortment of
Scarlet
Drab ( Cloaks trimmed with fur and
Purple and ( ermine.
Pearl J
December 15. §
Bank of Pennsylvania, 15th Dec. 1796.
The Stockholders are requested to meet
At the Bank onThurfday, the twenty-ninth instant, at
jo o'clock ih the morniti".
By order of the Board,
ROBERT RALSTON, Cafiiiar,
§t?9 T h Pro teni.
i'or Sale,
By the Subscribers— In PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Nov. 30 w&f
Imported i/i the late arrifils from Europe and the
, Weji-hidies,
Holland Gin, in pipes
' Choice St. Croix Sugar and Kum
Martinique MolafTss, in hog(head«
Choice old Lisbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-caflcs
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-calks
Malrafey Madeira Wiß«, in pipes and quarter-calks
Tenerifl'e Wine, in pipes
Russia & FlemiOi Shteting and Ravens Due-k, in cases
Window Glass, J by 10, in boxes
Coifee Mills and Straw Knives, in casks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, irt boxes
Also, on hand,
A few chtflt of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; Aflafos
tida and Tapioca; and a few bales of Coflaes,
Baftas, Garrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Hantiker
chiefs, and a complete aflbrtment of 5-4 and 6-4
Boulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers & Co.
OiSlober jo diwm&thun
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
ATf1.,,68, HIGH ST REET. )
Has for Sale, Wholesale and >Rktau,
Madeira wine-, of ift quality,
Old Sherry, Lilbon, and Port Wines,
Cognac Brandy,
Jamaica Spirits,
Wine bitters and
Claret m cases.
Also fcr sale,
A few barrels of excellent Beef.
December 7. dx
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from »z inch cables down
to rope of 2 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the snip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 27. dtf
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Hot received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and striped Spanilh Swanfdown
Clouded Erminats and Molelkins
Striped do. and do.
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Erminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. Csffincts and Caffimeres
Superfine printed Qailtings, neweil patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
A large 'and general assortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season.
November 5. dtf
Cheap French China.
THE fubferibers finding it iißpeflible to supply their
store with any more China from France, the prices
being too immoderate in the manufactories, give no
tice that they will fell at prime colt the remaining
fleck on hand, consisting of
DelTert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers
Groupes and Figures
Alabafier Vases
Looking Glades, in gilt frames,
Besides India Japan'd Toilet Defies, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIEU & Co.
No. 91, South Second-ftrett.
December sth. tts
Davis's Law Boo£ Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GJiORGE DAVIS announces to his proteflional friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a Tingle volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding lov\
prices, which forfeveral years pail have in so distinguished a
manner recommended them to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the mod exteufive collec
tion cf the latest Englifli and Irish Editions ever imported
into this country, are pablifhed, and will be delivered gfatis
on application.
Orders addrcfled to G. D. in writing from any distance
(hall be pun&uaUy attended to«
A number of TRUNKS for Sale. *
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient tWT» near Market Street Wharf,
cv.B. tu3tf3«r
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flswer-Seeds,
Rosts, &c. £yc.
This day landing from the ship Eagle, captain Fofdick,
from London,
And FOR SALE by
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
of Walnut and Second-streets,
A moji capital and sxtenfive Ajfartmcnt of
GARDEN, GRASS a»d FLOWER-SEEDS,
ROOTS, &c. &e.
Among which are,
Five kinds Asparagus Three kinds Cresses
Four Berecole Twelve Onion
Twenty-fivt Beans Thirteen Radish
Six Beet? Fifteen Turnip
Hleveii Brocoli Fifte« Peas
I Twenty-fix Cabbage Six Savoy
Six Carret Four Parsnip
'iliree Cauliflower Fwenty-three Melon
Five Celery Twenty-one L#ttuce
Ten Cucumber;
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled leaf and sprigged Parsley
Pot M«rygold Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel VVurtzel
Lick Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foil? Lucerne
Red and white Clover Timothy, &c. &c. f
With a curious collection of the most esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most extenftve ever imported into this city.
The above are from a capital Seedsman in London, and
are warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above.
Dec. 17. dtf.
On Wednesday, the 28th inft.
At (3 o'clock in the evening will be fold at Public- Fen
di'4l (if not before d'tfpofed of at private sale) at
tbe City-Tavern,
All that capital mansion-house, (tables, out-hoafe9, See.
and three contiguous tra&sef land situate on the Weft-fide
of Schuylkill in the of Blockley and county of
' Philadelphia, generally known by the name of Lanfdown,
containing 199 acres i®i perches more or lefsand a mefiu
age plantation and trs&of land in Blockley townfliip a
torefaid adjoining Lanfdown, containing 64 acres one
perch.
The premises are so well known as to need no particular
description. Few feats in America can compare with
Lanfdown for convenience and elegance ; it commands a
variety of rich beautiful profpe&s and is remarkably heal
thy, Terms of sale will be made known by
PHILIP NICKLIN, in
and C fad to
ROBERT E. GRIFFITH, 3 James Greenleaf.
Dec. 12.
Just Landing,
At South flreet wharf, from on board the ship Stdg
ley. Captain Hodge, from St. Petirfiurg,
The following Goods:
Russia Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. fciapcr.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. ■ £rafn.
Do. Mould Candle?, 4, 5 and 6£to lb. the
Englifli size.
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do* White Soap in fmaJl boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck. 1
Jfinglafs, Ift and -2nd fort.
Horse Hair tmcurkd.
Rullia B'ar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
30 Tons Oakum and JfcnJt.
St. Petersburg Clean Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
OAober li. §
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A IVell Selected Assortmxnt of
Silk Mercery, Linen and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which be will fell, wholesale and retail, on the very
law eft terms ;
.1 Iniongfl which are
S(»me elegant 4- 4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dirrnty
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muflina •
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantbas of the firft quality-
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
the firft quality,- afTorted
lrifli Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets aflorted—&c. &c.
Odlobcr 26.
- ____________
A few Calks and Boxes of Excellest Fresh RAISINS,
jult received, and for sale by
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Also a new n 1-2 inch CABLE, 110 fathoms long.
December 5. jits
Beit Bolton h Nova-ticotia lVlackarcl,
Excellent Halifax Salmun in bbls.
47 bbli. prime Coffee,
Best Boston B«ef,
Codfifli in hds.
Spermaceti Candles,
Sperrrtaceti, and 1 , T
Northtirn j" U 1
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior
quality.
A few boxes excellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lilbon Wine.
A few sacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muslins.
FOR SALE BY
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
Oflober 31. d
A Genteel House.
FOR SALE, a.rrevv, convenient, HOUSE,
situate in Fifth, near Spruce-ftrect. Polfeffion may be
had ia two riionths, when it will be finifhed in a aeat
modern style. For trrms apply at No. 109, Sprute
ftreet, or 109, So. Water.firi.et.
December 8. X§
Mrs. Grattan
Refpe&fully informs the ladies and Gentlemen of thf
City, that the lirft
LADIES' CONCERT
Will be en Tuesday next, at the Aflembly-Rcom,
Act /.
Overture, p Kb ) y
Song, Mrs. Grattan, « Angels ever bright," Handel.
Concerto Piano Forte, Mrs. Grattan, Krumfholtz.
Italian Ballad, Harp, Mr«. Grattan, Millet.
Miscellaneous Quartette.
- yict IF.
Mrs. Grattan, Cardan.
. c <»i>g, « Ah fe perdo," Mrs. Grattan, Saccbini.
Sonato Piano-Forte, Mr. Reinagle, Pleyel.
Primrose, balUd, Mrs. Grattan, Webbe.
Overture, Abel.
*4-* To 'begin precisely at 7 o'clock.
Mrs. Grattan begs leave to inform the Ladies and
Gentlemen, that the subscription-book is at herhoufe
No 39, North Sixth-flreet, for the reception of those
names who wish to honor hsr with their commands.—
A lubfcription for eight nights 16 dollars, including a
Gentleman and Lady's ticket, both Uansferrable—
Half subscriptions 8 dollars, including cne ticket.—
Single ticket a dollars.
Mrs. Gratcan takes the liberty of requeuing the
fubferiberj to fend for their tickets Sny day astir
Thursday, (the 15th of December, at No. 39, North
Sixth-ftrest.
December ij.
Imported from London & Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, ia crates and hoglheads, wall
aflforted
Wine Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of all sizes
Two cases cf Stationary
One chelt of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A small consignment of Rose Blankets, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &c.
Paints of various colors.
BaSket fait in hoglheads.
A Ife on band,
Madeira wine, very aid, in pipes, hogsheads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different sizes
A few trunksof ladies French flioes aflbrted
Silk nan keen, &c.
Likewise an afTortment of Dutch goods, consisting of
Ofnaberfs, ticklenbergs, bed-ticks, stripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Britannia®, &c«
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas john Ketland.
WalnUt-street Wharf.
Nov. 15. eotf
Mr. F E'NN E L L
RefpeHfully submits to the public patronage his inn
tention of delivering, _ during the ensuing <winter t
A CO Li RS k OF
Readings and Recitations,'
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining;
Consisting chiefly of detachedipieces, feleiled from
the ieoU admired authors, in prose and verse:—Ar
ranged in fuVh a manner as to exhibit a striking display
of the hurpan pafiions, and the gradual influence of
vices oti the i.'iind contrasted with that of their oppo
site virtues, in affe&ing the happiness of man and the
welfare of nations. The readings will be occasionally
interfpetfed with observations on the most celebrated
authors,
And the ART of SPEAKING.
The whole lhtended as a combined system of meral,
critical, historical, and oratorical inftrudhon, calcula
ted to form the patriot and the man, and lay a foun
dation for the science of moral and political govern
ment.
The co®rfe will confifl: of thirty readings.
Eaqh reading will be delivered m the morning and
evening of the fame day.
The dayj of reading will be Tuefdayt & Thursdays.
1 he morning readings will commence at 10 o'clock,
and the evening at 7.
None but subscribers will be admitted to the morn
ing readings.
The evening readings will be public, to which also
subscriptions will be received.
Subscription to the mornings 8 dollars.
Subscription to the evening readings 10 dollars.
Occasional admission tickets to the evening reading!
half a dollar.
Subscriptions are received by Mr. Zachariah Poul
fon, jun. at the Library, to whom the Ladies and
Gentlemen who may be inclined to honor the underta.
king with their patronage, are refpeilfully requested to
fend their names.
Dec, ia d6t.
For Sale,
A capital stand for bufinels—l'hat well known tavern,
the Ewe and Lambs, North Front Street, No. 333, in the
Northern Liberties; a brick house containing nine fire
pl*ccs, and ten rooms well finilhed ; good ftabies and
chair-house, with a frame-houfc on Water street ; the
building Hands or. four lots, seventeen feet front each, ma
king a front on front-ftreet, thirty four feet, and nearly
the fame on Water-street, and is one hundred and forty
f<:«t deep from flfeet o street, fubjc6t tOjfß 10s. each
lot per annum, ground rent, this property is iiear theh.iy
fcales and public docks, easy communication with the
Delaware 1 waters and advantageously iituated for bulineft
of various kinds
The above premises are now rented until December
next at per annum.—Enquire ef tne Printer.
Dec n. ( §lwiaw6w.
For Sale,
By George Defchampsj No. 91,
NOR J H SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels
Ditto Herring and Mickarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or (ingle one
Dry Codfilh, from one to'fifty kentals
Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
December i. Jtf
WANTED,
As Cook, in a private family,
A YOUNG WOMAN who can produce gcod rc
commendatisns of an unexseption*Me chandler. En
quii e of the Printer.
November 17. j t (9.
New Theatre.
* # * The Public are refpeflfully informed, that on
account ofthefudden indisposition of Mr. Morcton,
the charafler of Hamlet will be performed by Mr.
Cooper. %
THIS EVENING, Monday, December 19
Wil be-prefented,
A TRAGEDY, called
HAMLET,
Prince of Denmark.
Hamlet, Mr. Cooper
King, Mr. Warren
Ghost, Mr. V EJlrange
Horatio, Mr. WigneU
Polonius, Mr. Morris
Rofencrans, Mr. War nil, jun,
G'jildenftern, Mr. Mitchell %
Francisco, Mr. Darley, jun.
Marcellui) Mr. Fox *
Bernardo, Mr. Warrefl\
Oftric, Mr. Francis
Lucianus, Mr. BliJJett
Grave Diggert, Harwood tff BliJJett
Queen, Mrs. L'FJlrange
Ophelia, Mrs- CUmixon
Player Queen, Mrs. Harvey
To which will be added,
A Musical Drama, in one adt, catted
The Purse;
Or, Benevolent Tar.
Baron, Mr. Warerll
1 heodare, Mr. Fox
Edmond, Mr. Darley, jure.
Will Steady, Mr. Har-wnod
Page, Miss L'FJlrange
Sally, Mrs. Qldmixon
• The music compofcd by Mr. Reeve.
, The accompaniments and new airs by Mr. Reinagle.
Box, One Dollar twenty-five ctnts. Pit one Dollar.
And Gallery, half a dollar.
Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's tlook-ftore,
No. 50 High-ftrect, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife precisely at 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to be taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from !o till 2 o'clock, and from
lo till 4 on the days of performance.
No money 6r tickets to be returned, nor ,any
person, on any account whatsoever, . admitted behind
the scones.
• VIVAT RESPUBLICA!
OLD THEATRE,
On TUESDAY EVENING, December 20,
Signior F A L C O N I
Will continue his Philosophical Performance.
Among several new Experiments, too tedious to
•numerate, there will be
The Learned Swan.
This piece has always been the admiration of the
Ipe&ator;.
The Sympathetic Windmill,
Which wUI work or stop at the command of the
company
. The incompressible Sealed SNOTF-feOX ;
The so rtluch admired RING.
Signier Fafconi ambitious to contribute as much
as is in his power to the amusement of his patrons,
has improved hit performance by the
Battle between the Elephant and the
Ourang Outang.
Extrafled from button's natural history on this
fubjeft, and the chafe of the Yahoo, a near fpeciesof
thefaid Ourang Outang.
This performance will undoubtedly give great f'a
tisfaflion, particularly on accouut of the Elephant's
being in this city ; but as it is supposed many people
have not seen it, this will give them an idea of the
sagacity of the animal, and his manner of fighting and
defending himfelf, only by the help of his trunk.
With other new scenery and feats not done before.
The whole to conclude with the appearance of a
SHADE, which will dance a hornpipe in a beautiful
dancing-room' as well as any master,
poors to be opened at 5, and the performance
to begin prcifely at 6 o'clock.
*,* Tickets to be had at Mr. North's, next door
to the theatre—Boxes may be taken at the fame place.
Boxes, ane dollar; pit, half a dollar ;gallery, three
Sths of a dollar.
Days of performance will be Tuesdays and Thurs
days.
To be Rented,
A Large Vault and Cellar,
That will contain 100 pipes, situate in Walnut
between Fourth and Fifth-ftreets. Also a COACH
HOUSE and STABLE, with Stalls for five h.orfes.
N. H. Goods Stored by the month.
Enquire of Benjamin W. Morris.
November 30. mwfti
FOR SALE, ~~
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four separate Patents. For terms of sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South S^cond-ftreet.
-jr. rtnvftf
Insurance Company ot North^Vnierica.
THF STOCKHOLDERS in ?re desired
to take notice that the second Tucfday in (being
the 10th dny of the month) is the day fixed by charter for
the f!e<stion of twenty-five DireiSors for the ensuing year.
Tic ck<3i(jn will he held at their office, and commence
o'clock, A.M.'
l hefubjeft >f the bye-laws of the Corporation will be
submitted to their cenfideration at this meeting.
EBENF.ZER HAZARD, Sec'ry*
Dec. 12. tthioj.
Opposite the State-Houf= Garden and Congrefj-
Hall; each Lot heing 45 feet front on Sixth-street,
and ijo feet deep to a 14 leet Court, v agreeable to a
plan which may be seen at the Coffee-Houfe or at the
office of Abraham Shoemaker, No. 114, So. Fourth
ftreet, where the terms will be made known.
December ; 6
New-England Rum y Salmon, Beef,
Chocolate, Rice, Boston mould and dipt Candles, a
few tjtarter-cafks of Sherry Wine, a few barrel? of
Cyder, and a few quintals of excellent T ible COD
FISH—for sale by
Ezekiel Hall,
No. 42, North Water-flreet.
December 14th, 1796.
CONGRESS OF tux UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, December 14.
Continuation as the delate on the address in atifwer
to the President's speech. ■
Mr. W. Smith observed that the supporters of the
present motion expreflcd their willingness to compli
ment the President, but seemed to with to take away
all the materials for doing so. They will not allow
h mto be complimented upon the prosperity of the
country, or upon its free and enlightened state, or up
on his wifdoni and patriotism, ( Mr. Giles laid he
had never denied the patriotism cf the Preiident ; he
believed him to be an honest aiVl patriotic man, but
denied the firmneis and wifdomof liis administration)
Mr. Smith, said the preftnt motion went to rtrike out
what related to the wisdom and patriotism of the Pre
sident's administration, but he was at a loss to dis
cover the difference between the wisdom and patrio
tism of thePreiidentindlh.it of his administration;
nor did he fee what gentlemen could fubftitvteas com
plimentary to the President in place of what was pro
posed to be struck out. The firit paragraph, he said
related to onr internal tranquility which was compar
ed to the state ot several of the European nations in
yolved in war. And why, he asked, 'should a foreign
nation be offended with us for Ipeaking of war ? It
ought hot to offend them, becaufewe rejoice that we
are at peace, and to appreciate the high value of such a
state it. was necessary to contrail it with the tniferies of
war. Had not, foreign nations, he rfced, held up this
country aa an example of wisdom in avoiding war ?
They had done so , and yetthis country was not in re
turn to refer to them. —With refpeil to the wisdom
and fortitude of the PrefideAt he wished gentlemen
would point out er.e (ingle aft, where those qualities
were wanting. It had been asserted that the adniinif
tration of the President had not been wife and firm as
it refj»e£ted our foreign relations ; but let it be remem
bered that the principal ground of complaint of the
French minister related to the conduit of Congreft and
not to the executive, and to afls of the executive func
tioned by Congress. llow then can gentlemen cast
the whole blame upon him, Therewas no a<St of the
President which had been offenfrve to the French na
tion, which had not been fandtioned by Congress, If
there was any blame, therefore, it fell upon them.
Mr. Smith instanced the a<S refpedtiug prizes, procla
mation of neutrality, icc. and hoped they should hear
no more of separating the President from the other
branches of the government, or. the government -from
the people.—The gentleman from Pennsylvania ( Mr.
Swanwick) said that Great JBritain and France tho't
themselves prosperous \ And what was the inference
he drew ? That if we call ourselves profpersus, they
will be offended by the Contrail. This could no be
the cafe ; foi* if these two nations thought themselves
prosperous, as he rcprefented them, they" would doubt
less be plcafed or laugh »t our folly in fuppoling them
otherwise. But he wondered how that gentleman
should have so greatly changed his opinion fincc tail
session. When'the British treaty wa# before them, he
mentioned the great increase of commerce and manu
factures which had taken place ; that they had out
grown themselves, as a boy, said he, outgrows his
cloaths : yet now gentleman will not allow the
prosperity of the country.
With refpeft to our being the freeft and most en
lightened nation in the world ; he wiftied gentle
men' would fperify the nation that was more so
He knew of none. He did not believe that any
nation enjoyed<hat civil & religiout freedom which
was the portion of the citizens of this country, or
that was so enlightened, particularly as to'what re
lated to affairs of government. If gentlemen knew
of any other nation so prosperous, he would a/k
them if they should be willing to change filiations
with such a nation ? he believed they would not.
The gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Giles) objected
to regret the President's from public life,
as there were many others who would fill the office
equally well with him. But he would arte, where
was the man who had so much of the people's con
fidence as he, and who could so well iafure an o6e
dience to the laws ? He believed there had been
fituationsin his Presidency, in which.no other man
could have steered the veflei of state through the
(hoals and quickfnndt with which it wat ftirrounded.
He mentioned the western infurreilion, the
business of the French minister Genet. Was it
not, he asked, to be regretted, that such a man
was about to leave the honorable (latioahe had fill
ed ? Gentlemen seemed to think, there was too
much of adulation in the answer.—Truth, he said,
could not be considered at adulation ; a»d let gen
tlemen point to any part us it, and fay, there is
no truth in this. If it wat founded in ta£t, it was
juflito express their gratitude to the man to whom
this country owed so much. He wished gentlemen
to advert to the rfdrefs presented to him on his
coming into office, and on hit re-election. riad he
done any thing to forfeit the refpeft then (hewn to
him ? What would be thought, he asked, if they
were to (Irike out that part of the answer now ob
jected t» ? It would be {aid to be not only witlihol
ding jjraife, but exhibiting him to reprehension.—
If struck out, and fomi cold, iinmeamog words
substituted in their place, it would convey to the
world an idea, that he had involved the country in
difficulties, destroyed public and private credit,
and been the eaufe of other mifehiefs, which had
been repreferted to exifi.
When this great man wat going forever to retire
from public life, it was expefled by the nation,
that they fhonld express their love, gratitude and
affeflion towards him. These fentimentt had been
expressed by every legifjature of the United States,
which had met since his retirement was announced.
Why, then, (aid he, should we alone be lilent" ?
Why fend him into reiiremcnt with daggers in his
heart ? He could not fee any reason for reprefling
feelings which lud been so generally.expressed.
It was objected to the answer, that it wished his
example might be the guide of his fueceffor ; but
he prayed, whoever he might be, that be might
follow his steps. Upon the whole, he said, there
might be an inaccuracy of exprtflion, a redundancy
of stile, but he did not believe thete was a sentiment
liable to objeAion. He hoped, therefore, the mo
tien to strike out would not prevail.
Mr. Dayton (the Speaker) said, that he did
not life to accept the challenge given by the gen
tleman who spoke last from Soutb-Carolina, and
to point out a nation more free and enlightened
than ourt, nor did he mean tocontcft thefaft of our's
being the freeft and most ealightsned in the work!
aa declared in the reported iJ.'rcfs, but he »«l tie
vertheleft of opinion that it did not become them
to make that declaration, and thu» to extol them
ftlves by a companion with and at the expence of
nil others. Although those words were in his view
obje&ionable, he was far from assenting to the mo
tion for Unking out the seven or eight lad chafes
of the address. The queilion of order having
been decided,. Mr. Dayton said he would remind
the committee that if they wished to retain or even
to amend any feftion or sentence of all that was
proposed to be (Iruck otft, they ought to give their
negative to this motion, as the only means of ac
complishing their purpose. It was fufficienl there
fore for those who wereoppofed to the queflion for
striking out the whole, to (hew that any part within
it ought to be preserved. Not unnecessarily to
wade time by lengthening the debates, he would
take the clause firft in order, and confine his re
marks to; that alone. This part of theaddfefs had
certainly not been read of hau been misunderstood
and mifrcprefented by tire member for Pennsylva
nia. Did it, Mr. D. alked, draw a comparison,
as had been suggested by that gentleman, between
the. relatively happy ft&te of tlie country in the
present and the year immediately preceding : Did
it go further than to fay that the situation of the
United l States was more profpeious at this period,
than at that, which immediately preceded the ope
ration of the present government ; certainly it did
not ; and were proofs necelTary to fubflantiate this
fa£l, or arguments wanted to enforce it ? The (late
of this country nnder this government was he said
that of order and union, their situation at tbif pe
riod alluded to was a melancholy scene of disunion
and diffoltition. This happy change was alcribed
and juflly ascribed in the report to our free and ex
cellent form of government, and the interposition
of an overruling Provideucc in our national affairs,
aeither of which, he trusted, a majority of that
house would be prepared to deny or dispute. . He
could not discern the least possibility of giving of
fence to other nations in contrafling the blessings
derived to this country from a ftatc ef peace wi'h
the calamity in which a fl*te of war involves those
who are so unhappy as to be engaged in it. The
cxprefiinns were such as could not be construed
either to impeach, or indeed to have any allusion to
the forms of government under which they lived.
If those forms weri such as belt suited the disposi
tion and circumltances of those who
them, and were bed calculated to render them hap
py, surely it must be admitted fhat war was not
less a calamity even to those the mod favorably
ciretimftanced in that refpett, and it could <oot
therefore be confidercd a refie&ion upon them to
call it so, nor to deprecate such a (late of things,
or to contrast it with that of peace which this coun
try was so happy as to enjoy. He had hoped, he
said, that the mover upon reviewing this clause
would have excluded it from his motion ; but, as
lie did Kot think proper to do so, Mr. Dayton
could fay with great confidence that a majority of
the honfe could not be faund to rife for ttriking
out a proposition which embraced the acknowledg
mant of a (late of good government as preferable
to disunion and anarchy, and a (late of peace as pre
ferable to that of war, and contained expreflions
of gratitude to Providence for an overruling care,
fignaHjr manifefted in our affairs.
Mr. Ames said, if any gentleman intended to
vote for the present motion, to strike out the whole
from an idea of adopting the amendment proposed
by the gentleman from S. Carolina, (Mr. Harper)
who offered a substitute, he would observe to them,
that he wished that influence to be done away, as
those who would strike out the whole, wanted no
fultirure. The two motions were opposite, and
the friends of the one ought to refill the other.
The gentleman who made the motion, had not done
so from any objetf ion he himfelf had to the origi
nal, but in order to accommodate dheia, It was
well known, that a committee as five members, of
very opposite politics to one another, had been ap
pointed to prepare a refpeftful address in answer to
the President's speech (here Mr. Amesrtad their
inltru&ions). As it was the duty of-the commit
tee to prepare a refpe&ful address, it might be
•matterof disapprobation, but not of fmprife, that
they had taken notice of the several fnhjefts touch
ed upon in the President's speech. It will not be
improper to notice, said he, that there was some
difference of opinion in the committee, with refpeft
to the woiding of that part ot the answer now
moved to be ftvnck out ; but from a convi&ion of
the delicacy of the fubjeft, and a desire to prtferve
inviolate that decorum which, he was sorry to re
mark, this debate had broken, such an accommo
dation took place, as met the approbation of every
member. They had therefore some reason ty hope,
while they regarded every membai's right to think
for himfelf, that it would have met with the ap
probation ot both fides of the honfe. For this rea
foa, except the sentiments should be found objec
tionable, he should wifli the address to be kept en
lire, rather than that the fubllitute proposed should
be introduced into it, as that would not have the
advantage of the fame agreement of the commit
tee, not could i. be f« maturely considered as the
teport which was before them ip print. He was
not disposed to go mto the detail of this discussion
From the unanimity of the committee, he mi"ht
indeed truly fay he did not expe&, and was unpre
paired for it, although he. thought he might depend
upon no other refour:es than the spontaneous emo
tions of the moment would supply, when he heard
gentlemen doubt the truth of the firft paragraph in
qnfftion. Still he#iofe rather to look for its defence
upon the general impreftion of obvious truth, than
to exhanfl himfelf by exhibiting it in detail. He
would refer to fads. If there was one voice in
America an any fubjeft, it was a confidence in the
constitution, and that the country had been exemp
ted from war, by the patriotism and wisdom of the
President. These were not sentiments they were
called upun to prove by vOHching documents and
fa£h : it wa* the fixed imprrffion that faSs had
left on the mind, on which be chose to rely. He
appealed for the truth of them to every heart, (-ex
cept that of # the gentleman from Virginia) who
did not tegret the retirement of the President. He
believed hit appeal would not be in rtin. But was
there a propriety in making such a dfclaration ?
He iv >uH briefly hqtn're info the nature of t!re se
veral obje&ions to the draft of the addreis. It had
been said, that it was neither natural nor becoming
to make comparisons between this country and Eu
rope—between the present government, and the tu.
multuous system which exiited prior to its inftitu.
tion. He appealed t» the fen(e and propriety of
every oni, whether thi» doctrine was hot Angular
as well a 9 extravagant ?
Was any thing more natural, than tW a man
in profpeaous cireumflances should increase hit hap.
pinefs by comparing his situation with those in a
less favorable (late ? The man who did not this,
left one half of the harvest of his happiness un
reaped. By this comparison, a spirit of thankful
nef9 was txci'ed towards the beneficent power who
beftowtd these bleflings. Some gentlemen may,
though it would be Itraßge, think differently on
this occalion, but he thought the sentiment both
natural and becoming. If even a man whnfe life
has not been greatly distinguished by hfs enjoy
ments, fees the fuffe-ings or the fliipwreck of others,
will it not be his duly habitually to thank Gad far
his blessings? But if he has been a fufferer
if he himielf has escaped fliipwreck or fire, will he
ftifle more refine'd sensations of grati*ude for the
advantages he does enjoy ? Or, if a man's neighbor
fuffer from fire, will he not feel thankful, that he
has escaped the calamity ? He cannot be thankful
enough for what he enjoys without adverting to the
calamities he has escaped. Nor di<s he conceive any
mote imprepriety in thus introducing gratitude,
than the introduction of it by clergymen into their
daily prayers.
But it had been fa?J, to contrail our country,
with others in a state of war, is difrefpeftful. If
that be really an objection, it might be easily ob
viated by adding " unhappily" after the word
" war." It would certainly be improper to exult
over the misfortunes of others; and the word un
happily would express that we deplore them ; but
when calamities did $xift, it was not improper to
rejoice that they were not our own. ' - ■
A gentleman had taken occasion toobferve, that
the cty of foreign influence had been founded thro'
the country. He should not be rudely explicit as
to the foundation there was for this cry ; butVhen'
it was once raised, the people would attend ta'fafts.
The world would judge between those who wished
to support the government and others. Mr. Ames
alluded to the factious spirit which foreign agent*
endeavored to flir up amongst the people of this
country. England he said had been outraged fyy
an appeal from government to the people, and par
liament addressed the king to fend an imperial en
voy out of their country, for interference with
their internal concerns; and yet a similar ipftance
had occurred, and met with no reprobation A
remarkable fact, and more of the fame kind ap
pear. We are at peace. But we mutt not call
ourfclves a free and enlightened people, left it
should be construed that other nations are not so.
This over-eau:ioufnefs, said he, may be the way to
aflert Ataierican dignity, but he did nol think so.
Foreign influence exitts, and is dilgraceful and
pernicious, when we dare not commend our c&nfti
tution, nor even thank God for its success in our
prayers* He did not think the French nation had
any reason to complain against this country. There
was not only no reason, they wanted even the co
lor of a pretext.
Mr. Ames referred to the words of the Prefi
detjt in his speech : •' Standing for the iaft time,"
See. He congratulated us that tfie experiment of
the form of government had so well fuweded. The
committee, he said. were charged to return a r«-
fpeftful address. The paragftph objected toy was
an appeal to facts. Whether the experiment had
been unfuecefsful or not, was to be determined.
He should think it had indeed failed, if he enter
tained all the opinions of gentlemen wh» had advo
cated this motion to ftrikc out—who denied the
prosperity of the country—reprobated its neutral
system—thought our principles tending to despot
ism—and the executive m?giftrate wanting in wif.
dom and firmnefs—that their miferiea originated in
banks and funding corruption. He should think a
republican constitution a chimera in its nature, and
a curfc in practice. But he entertained no opinion
of this kind. He believed this constitution had suc
ceeded remarkably well. If this was true, would
I it not be also ufeful to make the
! ever foreign nations might do? (for he did not
| much regard what they did.) And if the period
was come, that our government was brought into
'a peculiar Situation; if, in plain Eiighfh, we are
brought (as Mr. Giles alledges) to the eve -of a wsr
France, there was never a time when it was
more our duty, boldly and loudly to declare, wt
arc ready to meet them, to cling to our government,
and the more so, as it is villified by thejr agent,
and to-tay, 'we mean to support it against foreign
power asd foreign tnfults. This was was the time
to support our dignity with moderation—net to fay
that we defy you, but that we are Americans, and
neither-Freßch nor Englifa, This was the time, if
the facts stated by the |gentleman from Virginia
(Mr. Giles) werefoanded, to (how our unanimity,
and not an appearance of imbecility and difeord.
Another thing occurred to him. It had been
said, that the Prefidcnt no doubt was an hoaeft
man and a patriot, but it was not believed he was a
wife man. "The gentleman frop Virginia confuJer
td his administration as neither wife nor'firm, but
his integrity as a private man he had no objection
agatnlt. If the committee were to make an ad
dress after this manner, the house has nothing to
fay with refpeft to your admmifl.ation ; except
that it is not firm, nor wife, and some of us iniitt
dilhoneft and treacherous, though we allow you
have had no hand in the iniquity, still we believe
you a wife and peaceful man, and /hould be glad to
addiefs yen as such. In one word, fjr, we are glad
you are going to live snugly in this an
address of refpeft or insult ? Was this the refpeft
to be /hewn to the firft man in the nation in the
world i There was not a word in tUe address which
did not accord with his fentimer.ts. He did not
believe with the gentleman from S. Carolina (Mr. •
Smith) the Piefideut *oulj carry with him to
retirement daggers in his heart, if that house refu.
fed to do him justice. He bears in his bread that
confcioufqefs of refthude, that armour which'r er« could n«t pierce. The hlgliell terms of res
p?ift which could be ufcd, they owed to the Pre
sent of the Unite! States. 'This, it might be
laid, was leading- to adulation, but it was neverthe
left true, whereas the efieace of flattery- is falfe
hood and deception. Let gentlemen deny it. Let
„ them fay that the country does not entertain these
featiments. The yeas and uays, he said, would
undoubtedly be taken, when the real friends of the
President would be known. (Mr. Giles had said
he rejoiced to fee the gentleman determined to go to
his feat in Virginia, and did not regret his religna
tion. His name will appear to that opinion. It
was not present impreflions of the President's con
dud, out the whole of his life which (lamped his
ch»rafter. His country, the admiring World, and
faithful Hirtory, were now the keepers of his fame
and rvould keep it inviolate. We might refufe our
fuffrages, and thereby separate ourselves from the
general sentiment of mankind. We miy be lingu
lar ; he will be illustrious. ~ If, said Mr. Ames in
we address the President at all, it should
be in a refpe&ful manner, for lo;h tefpeft is.infnlt
in disguise. He hoped, therefore the motion be«
fore them would be disagreed to, at»d that the eri
giaal address would be adopted
to be continued.]]
JOR THE GAZETTE OFTH£ UNITED STATES.
NEW THEATRE.
The Comedy of the Child of Nature, performed on
Friday last was received with the greatest applause, the
vivacity of Mr. Moreton ir>the Count was natural and
entertaining, Mr. Wignell and Mr. Warren forcibly
impreflid the audience, and excited appropriate i'ym
pathies, Mrs. Morris (hewed gaiety and spirit in the
Marchioness, the Amanthis of Mrs. Merry was, alto
gether, fafcinating in the extreme. Such a faithful por
trait ol arch simplicity, tender emotion and filial affec
tion we do not remember to have seen, (he never o'er
fteps the modesty of nature, (lie leeks not £ y artifice to
entrap applause, but while (he fitisfits tHe undcrftan
ding her appeal is to the heart.
Mr. Cooper played Albei to with much propriety
and feeling, tho' a part so old was but ill suited to him,
he being, aswe are informed, but 21 yeafs of age. This
young mail, whole privatechara&er weubderliand to be
unimpeachable, pofleffes all the retjuili'es of a firft rate
perforner, but the acremonious and cruel attacks
which have been made upon him in some of the pa
pers, And which breathe rather the spirit of private
malice than either of justice or candour, seem to have
deprefled his spirits, and abated a little of his ardour,
but he need not be alarmed, while he trulls himfelf to
the protection of this geherous public, he has nothing
to fear from malignant or designing men who, what
ever be their motives, may attempt to undermine or
dtherwife injure his reputation as an aitor.
The play was succeeded by a ballet of which we
lhall only fay that Mr. Byrne danced extremely welt,
wish Mrs. Byrne had not danced nt all,
indeed we hope for her o\vn fake as well as for the fen
f-.tionsof the audience that (he may not appear again
till (he can Ihew her very great talents to that advan
tage which her present embarrassed situation pre
cludes.
The farce of animal magnetism played f®r the firft
thne was truly laughable, and the principal parts were
■well ailed, we (hould be happy to be more particular
in commendation if they hart been more perfect in them.
_______ DRAMATICUS.
F.r the Gazette or rm United Statis.
Mr. Fenno,
It hat been said often that Frenchmen have rob
bed and mafiaered with better excuses than Ame
ricauscan plead forjuflifying them as they do, with
out the like temptations and in cold blood. I saw
with approbation a paragraph in your paper con
demning the plunder of pictures and other -outrages
in Italy. A reply in the Aurora (hews a fouler
spirit than even pi£lur« Healing., A jult censure
on the outrages of a conqueror is termed abuse in
the Aurora which is devoted to calumny on our (
own government. Excellent decency thai owes no
thing-at home.
The writer of the reply infills that the world will
be benefited by the use the French will make of
their colledion. Is this an apology ? It was the
creed of the Jesuits that the end will fanftify the
means. Surely Mr. Bache'9 correspondent has not
turned Jesuit ? To levy contributions in money was
ever considered one ef the rigid rights of war—
But to war againd the arts and sciences was reserved
fer the iafamy of the modern Vandal philosophers.
To spare from pillage, Libraries, Pictures, Col
leges and Altars was ever deemed a law of war.
Conquerors prided themselves in afcrupulous obfer
■vation of it. What a suss their toad eaters In this
country made because tTiey had charged their naval
officers to forbear molesting some navigator or dif
eoverer, whose name I forget. Yet by the bye our
quakers and abolition focietics should remember
tiiat the French ships destroyed the benevolent Sj
erra Leone Settlement which the Euglifo had form
ed in Africa.
One might expect the French would rob chur
ches, because their antichriftian calendar, their ap
plause of atheists in their conventions, the perfec
tions and murder of priests, &c. &c. have given
the world fair warning. But their endless declama
tion about the arts and sciences, would lead one to
hope some protection for their maftcr-pieces, where
ver their conquering arms might seize them. Alas !
this is frail rated ! and Americans are found base
enough to jullify it, nay, pretend it is the lore of
the arts and sciences that makes prize of the pic
tures, statues and booksof Italy. Are these "fair
daughters of the ikies'' to be woo'd only by ravilh- <
i»g them ? Only sword in hand, and amidst the
smoke of burning towns ? Delicate lovers, who j
will not be refufed ! ,
Plainly and seriously, is any man blind to the (
tendency of making plunder or these rarities to de
grade the arts and to barbarife men worse than for
nserly—for these very things escaped deftrudtion by 1
the old Goths and Varidals.
The feeble nations must renounce a property now '
no longer spared by conquerors, as a neighbor na- f
tion might befeizej) with a piaure rags, aTid begin ,
or pursue a war merely to peur the colle&iens ef
half a dozen nations and half a hundred cities into 1
the mufesm of Paris. Ridiculous as this passion <
is, we find the French avow it, and our vandals '
applaud it. Naples, Florence, Parma, Modena,
Turin and Rome, will in future dread to have ma- j .
nufcripts, pifturcs and statues that will draw upon j
them malfacr», plunder, snd what i» worse, igno- 1
wmy. The trephies of their abafetnerit sre to be
- proudly displayed in the m life urn of Pans. A-id
: this toe by the gentry'that proclaim fraternity to
• the whole world. To pursue the idea before dated,
- where will p.ftures hang fafely except in Gibral
- tir. Uther European towers are more or less lia
: Die to be taken.
I In vain is it said, the mnfetim will exhibit in a
: groupe the united glory of the aits. Suhjeaing
I them to military outrage will degrade them dill
> more. Princes, no matter from vanity 01 other
motives, have been proud,of-Mm",jg them by
their munificence. In future, they will be cau
ttous. Not will the French ca(h supply what will
1 be withdrawn by other nations. For while every
war may collell (mind the Aurora phrase) rare
works of art, fifty waggon loads at a time, who
will recotnrr.etid paying lor them.
In one word, the poffl-ffiun of these things will
be in future precarious, if not dangerous : the taste
for them will decline, when ihcy are outraged, ex
hibited in waggons, broken, (tamed and bloddy,
through five hundred miles of country. The rage
of war is thus embittered, by falling on rarities,
which wete the pride of a nation, and are now wet
or rotten in tents, or gone to drew the fides of the
Alps with^their fragments, or to ionmortalife in
France, the humble Hate of iheir farmer owners. |
The pica that pictures were taken as a ransom
for the territory, is pretty enough, an'l well becom
ing the Aurora. Have not the neutral states yield
ed pidtures by fear, as well as enemies by force
The conquering French faints, it fcems, have a
right to inherit the earth : and because they forbear
to take pofleflion of their inheritance, they have a
right to every thing betides. Implacable :nemies,
fays the Aurora—And were not the French their
enemies also ? The right of the conqueror goes
far, it is allowed : but it has bounds. This use of
the right, is a horrid abuse, and an injury to man
kind, as tfell as the arts. The feelings of mankind
will go with the conqueror, when he exposes
his enemy to the extreme ot either misery or in-j
dignity ; and accordingly, the currency of French
principles will be opposed by the remembrance of
French exactions. It is tmpoffible to Urip a coun
try, arid profclyte it at the fame time -.-Miad that,
Mr. B.iche.
if the contagion of rapacious anarchy should
ihus (top itfelf, the lovers of tranquility and the
arts will fay—Amen. .
New-Jersey, Dec. 13, 1796.
N. B. If the word irata/ loldiers so ofFenfive to
the writer in the Aurora and the diead of mafTacre
suggested in this paragraph should seem too harsh,
let him read the proclamation of the French gene
lal Angeieau at Verona. He threatens to burn
whole towns and kill evjry fcml if one Frenchman
is killed. Gracious heaven, if a drop of enemy's
blood is Ihed by the people , who fight for their
hearths and their altais! Read Buonaparte's letter
refpe&ing Pavia; and, reader, blulh up if you
are ashamed of your indignation.
Phtladelph ia,
MONDAY DECEMBER J9, 1796,
Return or Fotes .r' c -r S
FOR t- .§ C ' 4 •f', »
PRESIDENT 5 i i ,is H
AND 1 -S <
YFCE-PrtESrDENI ' • s o o
New-Hampshire, 0' 6 »
Massachusetts, 16 13 1 1
Khode-lfland, 4 4
Conneflicnt, 94 5
Vermont,
New-Ynrk, 11 u
New-Jersey/ 7! 7
Pennsylvania, 1 1 14 13
Delaware, 3! 3
Maryhnd, 7443 j
Virginia, I no i.tj 3 1
Kentucky,
T.nnefiee, j
North-Carolina, I I 11 6 1
South-Carolina,
TScorgia,
Total, ~ - ~
T"':' Aurora lately defcarited on the cunning of the
Yankees, but is silent on the defection ef the voters of
Virginia and North-Carolina.—The Jacobin Buckjkim
would not. stick to the Burr.
E%tra<sl of a letter from a gentleman in Annapolis, to
his friend in this city, dated the 14th of Decem
ber, 1796.
The l louse of Delegates of this state have this mo
ment given their afTent to lend the cemmiflioners of
the city of Wa(hington one hundred thousand dollars,
and there is no doubt but the Senate will agree to it.
A paragraph from Fredericklburgh informs us that
James Madison. Esq. one of the present representa
tives for Virginia declines being re-elected from that ;
diftri<ft and that under this idea T. Pofey, Esq. offers !
himfelf. ,
It appears from entries at the Collector's Office for
this port, made in pursuance of the a<ft of Congress of
ihe last session, that in the quarter commencing on the
ft of July, and ending on the 30th of September laft,t
*90 seamen have been registered ; and that during the
fame, period, 22 seamen were impressed, of which 4
were natives, 9 whose citizenship was unknown or un
certain, 2 Swedes, 1 Dutchman, 3 Irishmen, and 3
foreigners, whose country is unknown, but in place of
whom 2 Americans were returned by the veflel which
impeded them. But one of these impreflments was
made in Europe j and one also from a veflel returning
frem Europe.
The Legislature of New-Hampshire met at Concord,
the 13d ef November. Governor Gilraan addrefftd
them in a very full and elegant Speech ; in the tourfe
of which he observed, that " The a<st of dignating a
man to preside at the head of our national government,
must always be deemed highly important. Hitherto '
the voice ot our country in this choice has been as one. 1
But the illuirious patriot whose wisdom, prudence and
fortitude have been so eminent in conducing the af
fairs of our nation, has mad# known to the public his
determination to retire, at the expiration of the time
for which he has been eleited. The eflemblage of
virtue and talents which he pofTefTes,have been exhi
bited in a manner exalting to hitman nature. May the
sentiments contained in his late address to the people, '
be deeply engraved on all hcaits,; and may the great
rulcf of nations continue to guide the public fufFrages
and deliberations." *
To which the Ijegiflature replied—" We heartily
concur in ientiment with your Excellency, on the im
portance of feleiling from the people, a man to preside
at the head of our government j the unanimity in this
trjniaiftion hitherto, has been no less remarkable than
the virtues of the man who has been the objeil of our
choice. May every inflruiHion he has given whether
by example or precept, make an indelible impression
on every heart, and a remembrance of the unrivalled
services he has rendered, iafpire with gratitude to
heaven that he has bv-eti lo long continued the gleryof
his country; and whje we regret the neeeility of
turning our attention from him, in the choice ofa chief
magistrate, our hearts follow him to to thefcenes of do
mestic retirement with the mod fervent wishes for his
present and future happinef*.
ALARMING!
Lafl evening between 8 and 9 o'clock a fire was
discovered in a bark framed building of Mr. Cres
ses in Maiket street, between 6t"h anc! 7th dreets.
Frytn eveiy circumdance it is indubitable that this
fire was kindled by some incendiary with a design
to spread a conflagration. A small quantity of
draw was plased under two pieces of bo&rd, the
fides of a wheel barrow—the draw was set on fire
by a coal, and when discovered was in a blaze, the
boards were much burnt.
.1 he fire it appears was brought in two pieces of
leather which were found near the spot. A timely
discovery prevented in all probability much mif
ehief.
COMMUNICATIONS.
It seems as if those acknowledged trtlths, or axi
oms, which guide men in other sciences, jniflead
our democrats in their politics. The pronenefs of
liberty to licentiousness no one denies—and the ter
mination of licentiousness in despotism, is no less
agreeable to fact and found theory. Vet the de
mocrats fay, and fsy to a man, tbe Frcnch are in a
revolutionary date, their excelles and woi fe were to
be exprtted—that is impofiole, but they willeda
blilh libei ty. Now pray what right has a friend of
anarchy to affirm that liberty will come next. Af
ter licentiousness comes what ? Despotism. Liber
ty is the daughter of honelt parents, not of vice
and violence.
1 his inference is plain, .those who look for the
loss of liberty a 9 the probable consequence of con
fufion ate wiser, fafer, and more watchful keepeis
«f it, than those who can believe that licenciouf
nefs only brings more liberty ; even such o%>m de
mocrats as are houeft, as fume of those who pin
their faith on the sleeves of wicked leaders, may be,
are dangerous in their principles, and unfit to be
intruded with federal authority. They cenfureTear
and hate our -conditution, or, as they will acknow
ledge, several very important parts of it, and almost
all it's admiilidration : its entire overthrow so far
from dangerous, much less fatal, is only a new Ihuf
flin£ of the pack of clrds, a new chance for the
people to chtife a form of government, more pure,
tree and amijble.
This iilca is chirafterifticof the party, BDd it Ts
nor unfair, nor exaggerated in the lead, for'thofe
now charged with it, maintain witk-the ze »l of fee
taries that fs<ft and experiment, no one can fay how
many times repeated in France, have proved nay,
more have made it an article of the political gospel,
that revolution and liberty are fynonimous terms
The quelfioti ia seriously repeated, are such men
proper .to be chosen to office, at any time, when
their ele&ors do not wifli for a revolution.
" You aft mad ! You have not fenfc enough."
(Diggory,in All the World's a Stage.)
Mr. Fenno,
I; is reported that the fupporterg of the Auro
ra from a deficiency in rational cor respondents and
from innumerable difappointmenls in the demo-po
litical line, have been under the neceflity of opening
a correfpendence with one of the democratic refi
dents in the Lunatic HoTpital.
I have sent yon, from the Aurora, the firft num
ber of the Demoniac ; and if the future numbers
should be written with equal spirit, they are at
your fertice. A. B.
THE DEMONIAC—NB. I.
Contrail the boaded prosperity, blasphemy in
contempt of truth 1 so loudly and daringly vocife
rated by the Executive of the United States, and
reverberated by Congress ; by the Executives of
the dates and re-echoed by their legiflaturcs, with
existing truths glaring as a fumtner's fun, with the
loudly crying facts. Our commerce and navigation
prostrate at the feet of British despotism. Our sea
men in chains or under arms against the advocates
of the rights of man, their muscles contorted *nd
finking under the British lash, our merchant* rob
bed of their merchandize—crushing in ruin every
sea port town in the union ; and in their ruin in
volving thotifands of their unfufpefting fellow-citi
xens 1 This is prosperity with a witnefi. Our ap
parent prosperity alas! ha 9 been the refalt of our
fictitious credit of funding and banking fjftems, and
withal rifißg out of the miseries, the imperious ne
ceflities and wants of a filler republic, who raised
America into existence among tjje nations of the
earth struggling for freedom with the combined des
pots of Europe. Is this the prosperity of which
Americans should extiltingly bos It ? Gad forbid.
And this appaient prosperity is impudently ascribed
too, to the 6 years glorious Washington adminif
t ration.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
NEW-YORK, December 17.
We learn that Robert Troup, Esq. is appoint
ed judge of this didrift, in the room of John Law
rence, Esq. lately chosen ta represent this date in
the Senate of the United States.
SALEM, December 9.
Releaft of American Seamen.
Capt. Elias Grant arrived since our lift in 19
days from Martinique and St. Bartholomews. At
Fort Royal, capt. Grant saw Mr. Talbot, agent
of the United States for obtaining the release of
Aracritan Seamen from an boaid British reflcli of
Jwr, who informfd him, that be hsd pieeurcd the
release of several, some of whom capt. G. saw.
Mr. i alliot appeared fatisfied with the conduct of
the sritilh commanders, as far as he hadssen, in
delivering them up, and declared that he had not
marie a fmgle application that had been reftifed, A
Stephen Croel, of Long-Island, state of Newyork,
who had been discharged from on board a veflel of
war, came on board of eapt. Grant at Tort-Royal,
but was fhoitly after taken sick and died. Captain
G. saw his difch«rge, and certificate for pa\ while
on board the ship.
While capt. G. lay at Fort-Royal, fevefal car
tels arrived with priloqers from Guadaloupe—one
of the ptifomrrs with whom capt.G. eonverfed, said
that of about 1500 that had been taken by the
French, only 500 were then alive—the reft died ia
the French prifo'ns in Guadaloupe •
The fleet that we have had accdnnts of failing
frunv Martinique, had returned without performing
any exploits whatever.
£The friends of the above deceafrd S. Creel, by
applying to capt. Grant may receive the certificate
entitling him to his wages.]
OF THE ONITSD STATUS MARINE tIJT.
PHILADELPHIA, December 19.
ARRIVED. Days.
ARRIFED. Days
Brig Florida, Hoare, St. Domingo 41
Livinia, Caflin, Martinique 35
Sloop Driver Paddock, Richmond 7
Salem, Watfen, New-York 7
ov , • CLEARED.
Ship Wilmington, Hillman, Amsterdam
Brig Weft-Indian, Charlton, Hamburgh
Sch r Eagle, Hall, St Thomat
Antolope, Wllfon, Norfolk
Ship Ann 3c Mary, Billis of Philadelphia is arrived at
from Hamburgh.
Pantheon,
AND RICKETTS's AMPHITHEATRE.
MR. RICKETTS refpsf.fully informs the Ladies and
Gentlemen of Philadelphia, that from the Theatre having
been originally opened, (as he has been informed) on
Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings, wishing to
avoid the lead appearance of opposition to what he imagi
ned to be the wilhes of the public, during the time the
Theatre might be open, determined to perform on Tuef»
day, rhurfday and Saturday, tho' the Thursday evening
has generally proved unprofitable. The Managers of tho
Theatre, having resolved to play on Saturday even
ing, in addition t» their other nights—Mr. think*
it but a duty he owes to himfclf, now to alter the night*
of his performance, to Monday, Wednesday, Friday and
Saturday evenings, so long as the Theatre (hall be opened
orr the Saturday. In this condu& .lie flatters himfelf, he
lhall meet with the fame approbation and liberality, he
has hitherto been honored ; as he pledges himfelf to th»
public to resume his usual nights, fofson as the Manager#
of the other Theatre c?afe to invade what he thinks hit
right.
This prtfent Evening, Moriday, December 19.
Wili be presented, the following entertainments.
HORSEMANSHIP.
A Musical Entertainment, Called,
THE PURSE, OR BENEVOLENT TAR.
A comic ballet danee (under the direction of Mr. Du
ran;;,) called Tug Country Frolic, or Merry HaY
Makers—The whole to conclude with the Grand Seri*
,ous Pantomime (under the direction of rjefirs. Sully
and Spinaeuta) of
OSCAR AND MALVINA,
• Or, The Hah of Finqai.
Doors to open at 5, and the Performances to com
mence at a quarter after 6 o'clock.
%* The days of performances, to be Monday, Wed
nesday, Friday and Saturday.
On WEDNESDAY MORNING will be Publifced,
Porcupine's
POLITICAL CENSOR,
For NOVEMBER, 1796.
CONTAINING
' OBSERVATIONS •
On the Insolent and Seditious Notes,
(Attacking the fe-vereignty and independence of the
United States J
Communicated to the People, by the late French
minister, ADET.
December 19. *iw
For Sale,
AN ELEGANT PHAETON, almost new, with pla
ted Harneis equally new*; and also a Pair of handlome
CARRIAGE HORSES, warranted good and found. Tb*
whole to be seen at the Indian Queen, in Fourth Street;
for terms, apply to THOMAS Mc. KLANS.
Deccmbei 19. ,j
Territory of the United States, N. W. of the Ohio*
TURXtR }
v. V Foreign attachment.
Parker. J
Notice is hereby given,
*To JOSEPH PARKER, late of Kalkaflcia in the (now)
county of Randolph, in the Territory aforefaid, Mer
chant, that in pursuance of the laws of the Territory in
that cafe provided, a foreign attachment hath ilfued out of
the county court of common pleas of the said county,
against the lands and tenenr ents, goods, chattels and et
feAs, rights and credits sf the said Joseph Parker, at the
suit of George Turner, Esquire ; and that unless the said
Joseph Parker appear by himfclf, or Attorney, to give
special bail to such suit, judgment by default will be en
tered against him, at the court to be held in and for the
said county, next, after the expiration of twelve month*
from this date ; and the estate.or estates so attached, will
be fold for the fatisfa&ion of all creditors, who lhall ap
pear to be justly intitled to a demand thereon, and {hall
apply for that purpose. Dated at Kallcalkia, aforefaid,
this twenty-ninth of March, 1796.
d ' JOHN RICE JONES, Attorney for Plaintiff.
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an election
for thirteen Director* to serve for one year, will be held
at the Company's Office, en Monday the 9th January next,
at II o'cloek.—And agreeably to the act of incorporation
a statement of the affairs of the company, will then be
laid before them.
SAMUEL W. FISHER, Sec'y.
Philadelphia, December 19, 1796. dt 9th Jan.
Just Arrived,
In the (hip Dispatch, Captain Morton,*from Havre;
de-Grace, and for sale by
Isaac Snowden, jun. No. 141,
SOUTH SECOND STREET, .
An invoice of Gloves of various kinds, Men's
White Silk Hose, Black and White Laces, and a few
pieces of Black Silk.
December a. J*v.FOR SALE,
A "PLANTATION,
ABOUT i» miles from this City, situate in Abington
Townftip, Montgomery-County; containing 70
acres, a new stone house, two ftorics high, 2 -rcnSms on e
ffoor,fire places in each, a stone kitchen and stone lpring
house, over an excellent spring of water, a barn, stable,
lheds, barracks, &e, A large apple orchard, and a variety
of other fruit, about 11 atres ef good meadow well water
ed, and wood fufficient for fire, and fencing the place.
Poffefiion may be had the id ps April next. Property in
this City wiil be taken in exchange. it No. 37,
Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, September 13,1796. ttftf
TO BE SOLD,
A LE4SE for seven years,from the 2sth March next, in that
capital and beautiful FARjM, called
P R O S P E C T-H I L Lt
Bituat*d within one quarter of & mile from the Brandywine
Mills, and half a mile from the borough ©f Wilmington.
THE dwelling house is built of (lone, two stories high,
genteely firufhed, and contains four hanctfbtne rooms on
a floor, besides an"entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
cellars. It is genera fly thought to command the mofta
giceable profneft of the Delaware, from the source of that
livei to the Capes* This project ia greatly embeliifhed by
a full view of a vast body ot meadow, through which the,
Christiana and Brandywine creeks are seen winding in beau
tiful meanders. Near the house are a Kitchen, a spacious
stone flable and hay loft a barn, a carrtagb house, mrfic
hoiafe, See. and a well of as pure water as any on the conti
nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of lai*d, a
bounding with fruit, and particularly with peach trees, of
the very best kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear
jngj There ts, moreover, on the place, a young, apple
orchard begining to bear, and leveral old trees that produce
abundantly, besides cherry and other ornamental trees, in
great numbers. The farm confiib of near sixty acres of land,
of good quality, and clear of incumbrances, except taxes,
twenty ot which arenow in excellent clover and timothy,
and ten more will be ready for (owing next spring. A ne
fidence ot nearly 8 years has convinced the fubicriber that
the situation is remarkably healthy. The great post toad
-from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within seventy
yards of the house. Jn a word, the beauties and conveni
ence of this fituauon cannot be enumerated in an advertile-
Snent, and when examined, will probably command the at
tention of any person who isdefirniis of living at one of the
inoft elegant country feats on the continent. The purcbafer
may enter on the premifcs next spring, or perhaps, this fall,
if application be immediately made to D«fto. NICHOLAS
WAY, ia Philadelphia, to Do&or WHARTON, on the
premises, or, in his absence, to Mr. GEORGE TRUITT, in
Wilmington.
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, some
Stock, &c. may be bad by the purchaser at the time of sale.
Nov. 7 eodtf
J?imes M'Alpin, Taylor,
No^3, South Fourlh-Jireet,
RETURNS h ) grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for their liberal encouragement,
*nd begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive afTortment of the
Moji Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the best quality, suitable for the season.
At this (bop CScntlcmen can be furnithed withthe keft
materials, and have them made up in the neatest and moll
Fashionable manner, and on the shortest notioe. He Will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
punctual attention,, to them.
November 10. ws
The Elephant
IS RET VP NED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpe6tful!y informed, that
this animal 14 to ke seen every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Market
ftreet, No. I ®6, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-fbeets.
Admittance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
(C)* At the reqaeft of many perfong it will be
exhibited on evenings from live to eight o'clock,
»t half a dollar e'.ch.—The room will be well
lighted. November 7.
Treasury of the United States.
OTICE is hereby given to all persons who arc or
i\ may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
of the Fitidcd Debt, or Stock, hiring a present interejl of fix
4tr oeniwnper annum.
ift, That pursuant to an Act of Congress palled on ,the
18th day of April, 1796, intitled an a<ft in addition to an
aft, intituled " An acl making fuither provision for the
support of public credit, and for the redemptfon of the
public debt," the said debt or iock will be reimbursed and
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be made en the last days of March, June and Septen>-
" ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou
" sand eight hundred & eighteen inclusive.at. the rate of
" one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
«* Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last; day of
" December for the present year, and from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
" one thoufandeighthundred and seventeen inclusive, at
" the rate of three and one half per eentum upon the ori
" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma e on the last
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of such sam, as will be then ade
" quate, according to the contrail, for the final redemp
" tion bf the said dock."
id. All diftinftion between payments on account of
71 terefl and Principal being thus abolished by the
Bient of the permanent rule of reimbursement above de
cribed, it has become necelTary to vary accsrdihgly the
sowers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
reditors will therefore observe that the following farm
* eftablilhed for all powers of attorney which may be
granted after tke due promulgation ol this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that
I °f
Jo male, eonfiituie and appoint
oj my true and lawful At
torney,forK!,andin my name, to receive the dividends which an,
or fiall le payable aceording to law, on the (here describing the
stock) flanding in my name in the books of (here
books of the Treasury or the Oonimiflioncr of Loans,
where the stock is credited) from (here mfert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) with power also an attorney or attor
niis under bin, for that fuipoje to male andfubjlitute, and to do all
lawful aRs rejuifrtefor effetVing tbepremifn, hereby ratifying and
tonfirming all that my fetid Attorney or bitfuhjtitutc ,fcalllawful
ly. do, by virtue hereof.
In IVitnefs hereof, I buve hereunto fst my Hand and Seal tbl
day of in the year
Sealed and Delivered
in presence of,
BE IT KNOWN, that on the day of
tfore me perjbnally came
within named and acbnowledged the above letter vf attorney to be
his ail and d*e^
In teflimony whereof I have hereunto set my Hani unJ affix
ed Seal the day andyear last afortjaid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions
from the Secretary of the Treasury
L SAMUEL MEREDITH,
T reafurtr of the United State:,
July *3« ut IS"/ tlj
The PartticrflAp lelwtin
Israel Whelen and Joseph J. Miller,
Trading under th« firm of Whelen & Miller, was
Piililved, by articles of agreement, 011 the r rtli day of
February last ; but the said Jofepk had a right, by the
said articles, to use the name ®f the firm for a eertaiu
time, which has now expired, and of which this pub
lic notice is given.
All persons indebted to the said co-partnership will
please to make payment to Joseph J. Miller, to en»ble
him to adjust and discharge the debts d»e from the
company.
Israel IVhelen,
Jcfeph J. Miller.
Philadelphia, December!*, 1796 17*
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Sea/on,
And fed on clover hay at the Subscribers place, II
ailes on the Bristol Rohd, where good flabling is pro
vided, and great care will be taken of them
William Bell.
Nov. 43. mwfWrmhtf*
Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS are hereby notified that an
' eleition for twelve Directors for the ensuing year will be
held at the Bank on Monday the 9th of January at ten
o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Caihicr.
Dec. I. $t9j.
Lottery and Brokdr's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lot»ery, No. a, for sale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel knd Public for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purehafe or fejj Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,*
See. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dollars each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Wm. Blackburn.
1 Philadelphia, Augufl 18, 1796. mth
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third street, opposite the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FR. AUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnerfliip, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and CommifTion merchants. They buy and
fell on commiflion every species of stock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, scc.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c f
writings in the conveyancing line, done with
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
most correal manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a share of the public favor; they are det«r
---' mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The Ktmoft secrecy observed.
S AMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
* JOHN VAN REED.
Philed. AUgust 2J, 1796. m&wtf
City of Wathington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent \ 10,000 dollars, & \
vdwelHng-hoofe, 3 cafli 30,000, are J s°> ooo
I ditto 15,000 & cask 15,00 a 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cafli 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & Gash 10,000 10, coo
I ditto 5,000 & cafli 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cafli 5,000 10,000
I cafli prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are « 10,000
10 do. l,eoo - - 10,000
ao do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 • - 10,000
too do. 50 . 10,000
400 do. 45 - 10,000
1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
15,000 do. to - ,50,000
*6,739 Prizes.
32»i6i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour thole who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars Will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but ox: :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received foi
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City *f Washington—
. Two beautiful defigi* are already feleCled for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawinge
i it ispropofsd toere<sl two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurars, in
the mannerdefcribed in the fchemc for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett dedu&ion of five par cent, will be made to defray
the necelTary ezpenfes of printing, the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
1 University, to be erecled within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.—The money prizes will be payable ia thirty days
actor it is finifhed ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, arc to be confidercd as given towards
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fe»tle
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as Security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ot the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiflioners aflifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on bdialf ef the public ; a fufficient num
ber Of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jo&smay continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Eur6pe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are allured that the
drawing will speedily commen.e, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necelTary to insure a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has rendered the ftior; fufpe.ofion indispensable,
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of
James Wefi & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Bolton ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and ef Rieljard Wells'
Cooper's Ferry. cs
SALT P £ T R E.
A larpe quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 25, South Third-street.
November 5I
Washington Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifGd ;
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand, i
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting I
a Canal through the City* of Walhington, frosi th Po • !
tomact-o theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz /I Prize of ao,ooo dollars, ao,ooo
1 ditto 1 ©,000 10,000 j
7laftdrawn')
Tickcts.each j 35,000
6 ditto 1,000 6,000 j
10 ditto 400 4,c00
20 ditto xoo a,coo
55 ditto so 1,7.50
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for ch« Canal, 26,250
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Commiflioners have t-.ken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aiS for the punctual payment ol
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as thp Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
Jrawing is iinilhed, shall be considered as relinquished for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wafhirglon, Feb. 11. 5
Paterlon Lottery.
FOR raising fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
1 Prize of 5000 dollar!* is dollars 5000
I iooo . 1000
l 500 . 500
5 aoo ioeo
ao 100 iiooo
99 495°
20Q 5000
%000 10 ad,ooo
5 Last drawn numbers ©f rooo dollars each, 5000
2332 Prizes. 44.450
| 4018 Blanks.
• 6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44.450
By order of the Directors of the Society for eflablilh
ing UfefulManufaitures, the fuperiot-endauts of the Pat
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing S.heme to the public, and have directed them
to rerend the money to those persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
n this Lottery.
The lottery has adtually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be fesn at the office ol William Blackburn, Nta. 64
south Second street, who will give information where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- CUMMING,
. JACOB R. HARDENBERG, > Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
, STATE OF THE WHEEL.
l Prize of 5000 ... 5000
I 1000 - - - xooo
I * 500 ... j OO
5 200 . 1000
20 ICO - - 2000
90 50 4500
165 25 - - 4125
The five last drawn tickets, 1000 each, 5000
Being all the valuable priaes, besides a full propor
tion of the 10 dollars.
As the Lottery is considerably more than one third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly increased, and it is worth the notice of those
who hold tickets inthsold fcherae, that they can ex
change t-heir tickets for thole in the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance coniidering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be oftener, and the Lottery soon fimriied.
November I*. mws
f By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Second-Jlreet.
SCHEME of I LOTTERY,
For raising Sixty Thousand Dollars, agretably to an Aft of
the Legislature of Pennfylvaaia, passed during the last
fcfTion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berks. Dollars,
a Prize of 20,000 Dollars - 20,000
1 do. of 10,000 do. - - 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do. . - 15,000
4 do. of e,ooo do. * - 8,000
#0 do, of x,ooo do. « 20,000
39 do. of 500 do. - . 19,500
» 80 do. of 200 do. ... 16,000
*00 do. of 100 do. - • . 20,000
( 300 do. of 50 do. - . 15,000
i 1 do* of s©o do. to be paid the poflef- )
for of the firit drawn no.}
5 do< «f 3,0e0 do. te be paid poffeffbrs )
of the five last drawn nos J l 6*°°°
, do* o 15 do. : - 141,000
10,054 Prizes 300,000
10,046 Blanks —
F '
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Prizes shall be paid fifteen days after the dra wing 15
fini(hed, upon the demand of a poffeflor of a fortunate
ticket, fubje£t to a dedu&ion of| twenty per cent. The
: Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets ate disposed
' of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Witman,
\ J°f e pb Hieftcr, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas.
; James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Crarjf,
I Selajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 1796.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. », to be had at the
above o(Jice, where the carlitft iniormation of the draw
r ing of the Walhington No. «, and Patterfon Lottery's,
I are received, and ohcck books for elamiaation and regif
1 tering are kept.
O&ober 7. aawtf
Le Breton,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Der> f !!} to the
Kiftg and Royal Family, of France, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Farts,
Keeps a complete afTortmint of eveiy thing neceflarv
to be used for the
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Mineral Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder; Opiate ; excellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth—i:e
also furnifhes Bruthes and foft Sponges.
*** lives in Chefnut-ltreet, No. 13c, abeve
Fourth-street.
November 26. tts
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open hisfehool on Mon
day the 3 lib inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
, Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from ioto i o'clock
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and''for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on die evenings o
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new cotillioas, he means fro
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firfl pra&ifnag ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the season.
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, N0.134, Markct
ftreet.
Q&- 1 7 • tthf
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa6lory, situate
in a convenient part ot the city ; the works almoifc new,
on an entirely original conftru&ion', and built of the
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Perfom
whowifhto purehafe, are requelied to apply at No 273,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f tf
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RANAWAY from the fubferiber on the 23d O&ober,
3 Dalle IVTt"I. I 10 BOV, named \TOSES ; 21 years
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high; had on a mi«ed, green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped veil; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is probable he may change
his name and dress. He has been accullomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will lit
paid for fccuring him so that the fubfcriW may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamkcrlaine.
Eafton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 §jmiawtf
Samuel Richardet
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentiemen
Merchants, that he has this day,opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia.
The Subfcriprion Room wjtl be furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, N:w-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal com
mercial citias of Europe—They will be regularly filed
and none permitted to be taken away tin any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
approved Malt Liquors fromJyondon and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and sarliell
productions of the Scafon. ,
Large and small Parties, or tingle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breaifafls, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours rnoft convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely fnrniihed, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanjincfs, and every other
requisite.
StMUEL Richardet will behappyto receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gfatitude for their favours, he pledge*
himfelf that nothing on his part fhallbe wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly iionored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretaryof the Treasury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for thefupply ps all rations which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1*97, to the thirty-firll day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftri&s here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara ; at
Paefque 1 fie; at Sandulky Lake, and on Sandufey
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ;at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-J«fferfon; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramies^tore; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place b«low Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort
Steuben ; at FortMaffac ; at plate from Fort Mafiac
to the south boundary of the Unitted States on the river
MifTifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatapr.fi,
If supplies lhallbc required for any polls or places not
mentioned in this notice, all such supplies lhall be fur
nifhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the U.nited States and the Cputra&or.
The rations to be fupplicd arc to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz. ■
One pound two ounces of bread or Hour.
" One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon. '
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiskey,
Ontfquart and half a pint of fait."")
Two quarts of Vinegar, / ,
Two pounds of Soap, ('P er hundrcd ration *
One pound of Candles, j
The rations are to be furnilhed in luch quantities, as that
there Iftall at all times during the said term, be fufficient
for the.coafump'tion of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara , and Ofwego, for the term of fir month,; in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the 1 term of
at least three months in advance, in good aud wholesome
provisions, if the fame shall be required. It is to be un
derload, that the Contractor isto he at the exfence and
risk 01 iffuirgthe fuppliss'to the troops at each pod, and
that all losses l'uftained by the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the United States, fcnll be p'aii
for at the price of the irtid.s captured or destroyed, o«.
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable civ—
radars, and the certificate of a comtr.i&pncd ofiiccr, as
certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the amount:
of the ai tides for which ccmpenfation shall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOT'f,
Secretary of the Treafur.y.
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO,
—No. 119 —
C 51 F S N U T-S TRiET.
[Price Fight Dollars psr Annum.)
f