mm y* mm&tAUS,* Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
FRfDAT EVENING, SEPTEMBER » 3 , rig -
___ ■ For Sale-, i 8 ,.4" , .P
---1 i IT I r 'v.r„-,r. \ l t-xoj t awn ntN.of thefirft otialrfsc? fn - .pe««
lor Charter, I
ijgkto .. 1 er Recetvet
7*& Domtnick Terry,
J3 - yacob De Hart, matter :an «<£ Ucnt »o Trunks
of about 3000 barrels burthctt. t Cafe
•y-,/7i y Robert Wain. x Ditto -
J j I Ditto I
gpptftnber «T. t: ~ I Ditto t
—prr For NEW-YORK, . «
The Ship LIGHT HORSE,
- To rsi in . few day, — -»
very low. Apply to, QSEPH ANT HONt, & Co. V\
September 10. _ „A_- - TJAS I
Vnr Sale. Freight or Charter, the
The Ship General Washington, MercerT ,
Now discharging her cargo fromU«r- he W ' U f '
" Rof j' S be sent to sea at a small Some I
" . Kearny Wlurton. J~;
Who has for fate on board faidl <b"P> hon g
& .few thottfand Bulhels Salt and Coal.
Sept- '9- • Silk i
j-— For Charter, ™ e b a :
The Danilh Barque Bsneventura, Fren,
Samuel Stub, mailer,
Rood vessel, Of about two ta® ll J (
TFSSE & ROBERT WALN. /
tons burthen. J dtf •
Sept. 17.
FOR LONDON,
OhJ&fishtr The capital ship CERES, '"fiTT
fe: -■••;-]V T o &a.b»&:-ror freight or passage ™
&JE.O. Si- C 7
John Yaughan, a
September 10. Front-street. x
F 0 R S A L E, _ 7°°
The Schooner LARK, For
Hundred and twenty tons burthen.
A new vessel well found, well built, & g
. fails extremely fad. For terms apply
to the mailer on board, or to f rom
joseph Anthony tff Co., £cp
If the above vefTel is not fold W»f« d^s ' fte W:U
take freight on very low terms for Bolton.
Sept. 10.
for sale,
ffa. The (hip STAR, Hi
wMMrj John Vannimak, Matter
T YING at Walnut-ftrset wharf, Philadel
-1 j phia built, of Eve oak and cedar, will v
!*7^7 3 aOG barrels, is two years old, and m com- .
carry rnuui 0 . care0 —For terms-apply to
pleat order to receive & j - JHN ZETLAND. £.
Who have also for sale said vessels eargo-cbnfifting of- 1
Wine and Porte/ bottles, —.
Window Glass, 6 by 8 to 16 by *».
Pipes in boxes
~ iSne»M*-
•Gi'indftones, Cods, Whiting, fee. , n p;
Aug. 29
..'J ■■■-
John Whitefides & Co.
Have for Sale,
Venetian Red,
Snanilh Brown,
White Lead, ground in oil.
% shot, No. I, 2, 3, 4, 5-
London Porter, in casks and bottles.
Several^ Queens Ware, in setts, with desert _J
ditto compleat.
Blillered Steel,
German ditto. per]
Sept. xt. d "! Ll
To be disposed of, mr
nPHE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who f
X has between four and five years to fervs: h»»e
can be recommended for her sobriety and honelly. For
particulars enquire at No. 132, Chefnut-ftrcet. j'
Ai.guft 3. w&ttf A
NANKEEN S, _ bet
Of ihe fi.rjt quaTtty, FOR SALE l>? , ln '
J R]). and JAS. POTTER. _
Fui .niy tjuaiiiil} Jbu»<- I'Vtv TUuuf«uJ ll- gj
beral credit will be given, R- J-
September 13. 1 ■ t;
WANTED, J
Tbrkk journeymen book-binders, 1
/^IOOD (leady workmen will meet with constant em- th
ijjr ployment.and good wages; 'y applying to JOHN bt
CURTIS, No. 43, North Fourth-street. tii
14. B. BOOK-BINDING in all it» different branches,
executed with neatnel's and dispatch. Public apd private P
lib'■arics repaired in the neatest and heft manner. e>
September 20. 1 k—
~ IN DI A SAL ES. £
ON Thurfdav the 22d inft. at TO o'clock, A. M. will &
be fold at the (lores of Willings and Franeis, a large
quantity of INDIA GOODS, imported in the Ganges,
from Bengal, confuting of _
3000 pieces Gur'rihs
2000 do. Baftas, different kinds
3500 do. Coffas, do.
1430 do. Humhums, do.
630 do. Patna hdkfs. for women J
iod ho. Addaties
go'do Tablecloths
300 do. Emerties
80 do. Funjumr . £
300 do. Fine Mnlmuls
300 do. Fine hdkfs. •
100 do. worked Muslins '
TOO do. Dorcas
, 100 do. Book Muslin
TOO do. black colored Fcrfians or Taltetics i
jioo do. B.mdannoss, chocolate, red and blue . 1
110 do. Choppa P.omaK
40 quarter casks of Hyson Tea of goad quality
40 Souchong
TJhe coaife goods will be fold by the bale, the taffetas
and bandwmoes in lots to suit the purchasers, the teas by
thc-ctxfl. The whale is entitled to ike drawback,and will .
h£( r olil for approved notes, on a liberal credit.
Tlie goods nuy bs fcen from the ijthinft. to the day
pgevious to the sale.
JOHN CONNELLY, Aflioneer.
Septcrribci' 8.
. ' - ....
I French Goods.
Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-it-
Grace»
»o Trunks "> Ladies . SHOES of all llors forts and sizes Eightccn
r i Ditto white and colored Silk the South I
I Ditto Fine LAWN
I Ditto be! fine C\MBRiC , App ,
I Ditto Ladies' 6eft fhamr.r/ and Glo\«;
For Sale by THOMAS & JOHN ivEI LAND.
■"fr* 4 Sept- }j
"WE HOLDERNftSSH,
Nv. 76 H't;h S"ee!, a Thr<
HAS received, by the Uteft arrivals' from Europe and , ft rc «
the East Indies, a well feleaed affortmtat cf SiU MetTrs. Ja
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haherdafhery Goods, whic now do y t
- he will fell, Whole We and Retail, on the .ovf eft terms , Pofle!?i<
amongst which are. For t
II Some fine India msflins embroidered with gold and ver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and j
Some (ixtra black taffeties.luuftringsand colored Pcrfiatos
Bandano > CI
. Long and Siort Nankeens U fied
'• English Mantuas of thefirftquality Ai
Damask table linen and napkins, very fine Au
Silk Hosiery, an elegant aflortment —
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas— green lilk, oil'd de. and do c.ath
A French cambrics, very fine Recei 1
' i,iih Linens, do. &c. &c. lune74 S Glf
e d ""70,000 Pieces Nankeens, t!c
Of the bell quality and or. reofonable terms, Ofn
FOR SALE BT , T
Philip Nicklin & Co.
AagufV 26. — Ra'
3(r . The Cargo of the Poiacre Independent, Bee
g ' T /CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alleant and Lif-
ftwwHnr *t wharf— c
28 Pipes of tSi-»rt(3y AU „
18 Bales of Spanifli wool
— 3 do. of Annifeed J
nooo Bushels of bell Lifbnn Salt
8o Boxes of Lemons - A „_ TO The Ca
For sale by WILLINGS & FRAN Cls.
icn. ALSO, „ ,
' ? Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS, A
received by the fliip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart, X X
from Kingston. ,
Sept. 13. * A V 0
will '
CABLES,
From 15 to 9 i inches, for sale by U
Jeremiah Warder,
j u l y tl g No 12 north Third-flreet.
Washington Lottery. jum
ide -M THE Twentieth and rwenty-firfl: Days' Drawing of - ---
W1 the Washington Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office "J [
C ° m " No. 234, Market-street, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
'r lotteries may be procured.
September 15, 1796. di
FOR SALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
in pipes and hogsheads 1 —-
5 Claret, genuine old, in rafrs 1 At 1
Gin, in pipes, from Holland I
Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, in hoglheads
' ' Shot, Nos, 6, 7, 1 and 9 TJ I
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead IV
Steel, G/trtnan and Raffia, in barrels beins
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas, of tb
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by into
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. .corpi
desert July 19 ——
The public a
IS hereby cautio»ed not to trull any person or
persons on my sccount, under any pretext whatever, a* I
Z Ihall not pay such debts as may have been, or hereafter
may be contracted without my knowledge.
7 THOMAS HOGGARD.
' w!,( ' Serf 17. • "* f 3
;.|o e r INFORMATION " T
rs given daily of the drawing of the WASHINGTON 0 f }
tf A LOI TERY, at the Office ance
No. 147 Chefnut-Jlreet, pole
between Fourth and Filth flreets. Also, where Tickets all c
may yet be had. Sept. 15.
R gr The 20th and 21ft Days drawing n arnvei.
*=''r-- Lottery affd Broker's Office, For
r ( % No. 64, South Second stxhat.
TICKETS m the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for fait—-a
Check Book for examinatian —and prizes paid in
17TP? the late lottery. .
' Check Books, kept for examination and for
ant em- the City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
JOHN both of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
ranches, tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New
! privatep po t Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
2w The fubferiber foticirs the application of the public
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates. Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
M. will &c Qr t0 o btain money on deposit gf property
•Sip, Wm. Blackburn. u
Philadelphia, Aufujl-ti, 1796. n.tn
FOR SALE,
A Complete Font of Brevier, Di
ENtirely new, and yet unopened. The weight of this 0 f
font is about 312 lb. It is from the Foundery of C
Wilson & Sons, Glasgow, and will be fold at cost & charges, of
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes. C'
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the Unitde be
Statsc, 119 Chefnui-ftreet. Aug. 19 §4 W e
Dissolution of Partnership.
THE Partnership between ROBERT ANDREWS and tl
DAVID MEREDITH,under the firm of ANDREWS ci
and MEREDITH, being diflolved. All persons who are 1<
eticj indebted to, Or who have claims againfl the laid house, are li
Sue requrfled to apply for [ettlement to the fubferiber. q
, ROBERT ANDREWS, a
lality No. 86, So. Wharves. f
?ept.6,1796. d if
e'tetby WANTED,
t,and will . A Middle-Aged WOMAN, who can be well recom
mended, to take charge of the entire management of
o the day children—Such a person will meet with fuitablc encou
ragemcnt, and may hear of a place, by applying to the
lioneer. printer of this Gazette.
d Sept. 14. mwf
( For Sale, port
(I» an exteilent situation for hVlf.nefs,) HOL. .1
A three-story brick House and Loo Bre . K=rsa
Ground, difcoun
Eighteen feet front and twenty-five feet in depth. on B . At
the Scuth fide of Market near Fron;-llreet, now m poficl j bepterm
fton of SamiJel Read* | —■ 7^]
A?F ' ° Israel Pleafants, or By W.
Charles & Joseph Pleafants*
Sept. i» — rpj ic
For Sale, T
A Three fiory BRICK HOUSE and _ Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second streets, in w 1 p ,
Mefirs. James Qattraith & Co. have Tor many yew. (and ThejeWut
ch . now do) carried on business.
poffeffieva will be givep in ooe orToon URited j
For terms apply to Sept. 20.
; —7Z L Great
** A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's place is waßtcel by a person properly quali
fied, and whose character will be found unexception- I / in^for f c
able. Apply to the Printer. (f I /
A"g- 11 n
Dutch Goods, J )
Received h the Pennfyhania, from Amflerdam. g eing ,
L_ GIN, in pipes
Morlaix T |
Tickleiiburgs > In Baics I And
Ofnaburgs J J August
German 7 Stripes, in cases
Hacrlem j j
Hollands DUCIv, in ditt» j
Ravens i I [Pr
nt, Bedticks, in ditto 1 A D /
Lif- Brittagnei } in ditto I *
To l 'ilu by W«pf& V 10BN KSTLfiM.
*us »9 —2— j The A,
Sales of India Goods. JByr. \
The Cargo of thefhip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from CaU 1 Lan
g_ cutta and Bengal,
C(IVSISTIM<3 OP I Sept.
IRS, A Large and generalaffortmeht of Bengal and Madras I
lart A COTTON and SIL* GOODS.
among which ake _ I
A variety jine worked and -plain Mujlins, I c
Dorcas, Vfc. Also, 1 100 t
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, 300 I
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER, I I
For Sale by I 4 op j
Willings & Francis,
I—l— jjo. ji Penn Street. I J 3o ' l,
June ? I
"office yu sT A R RIVE D, from Lifion, S°h
nined. J An( j fer g a i e i,y the Subscribers, 1 bteps at
ot,ier Lisbon Wine, :^;fo
[f \n pipes and quarter-calks; I
cooo Bushels Lisbon Salt. 1
Jefe iff Robert Wain. '
rSoltl ' Sert. io.
At a fpccial meeting of the Board of Di- TH
j reflots for eftabl'i filing ufefal Manufactures, hoiatn I
at Paterfon, July 8, 1796, J Cerl
RESOLVED! That a fpccial meeting of the 9®!ck- j for iS
holdsrs of the Society be called on the firlt Monday, j debt, 1
Being the third ay of Odober next, at Paterfon, by ten the
ranvas, of the clock of the fame day ; then and there to take I
into consideration the propriety ot diffolv.ng the said _Phi
ND. icorporation, agreeably to the law m such cafe made and
6 provided—and the Stockholders arc earnestly rcqucfted J r
— 2 — to attend the said meeting in person or by proxy.
August 27 dt 3° th ° A ,
rfon or ______ — ——— ————j si J
SXI DUTY ON I
Notice is hereby Given, phin
' TPH 4T ajrecablv to an aft of Congress of the United lor
1 Slates of America, oaffed at Philadelphia, the £ Bth day Djtto
JGTON of May, l?q6 ; tayin - duties on Carriages, tor the convey- Mufl
ance of persons, and repealing the former acts for that pur- | Japa,
pose.—Tim there (hall be lev isd. coilefted and paid, upon [A fc
Tickets all carriages fjr the conveyance of persons, which shall be
•tf kept by or for any person, for his or-Jvr own rife, or to let
out to hire, or for the conveying ot pafTcngen, the ft.eral du- j
■ . ties and rates following, to wit. j
a for and upon every Coach, »5 dols. I n —
c > upon evc'i'y Charitn, I 2 dols.
upon every Post Chariot, w dols; I n
r fal«-—a upon every Post Chaise, 12 dols. j __
paid in Upon every Phae'on, with or without top, 9 doll ITT
upon every Coachee, 9 doh. I V"
rin? for upon other Carriages, having pannei work above, I wltl
nttrrits with blinds, glasses or curtains, 9 dols. lent
" , ' upon four wheel carriages, having framed polls and 1 f rat]
u y ieIC • top: wiib fleet springs, 6 dols. | wea
undrawn u p o h four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or tron I
ate New- • fpri , )gs r,r j-'.cks, 3 dols.- I yar(
ttery, tor upon Curricles with tops, 3 dols. 1 a
upon Chaises with tops, 3 dols. 1
he public upon chairs with tops, 3 dols, 1 p
nk Stock, Ufon.fulkies with tops, 3 dols. I n
s, Lands, upon other two wheel top carrijiges, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with fleel or iron springs, I
UTTI* 5 dols.
*, For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 dols. I
n ' ,ta upon every four wheel carriage, having framed posts 1
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, x dols. I | n| ,
The-Colleftors of the flevenue of the firft furvev of the 1
Diftriftof Pennsylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day I
tht of this of September next, for the purpose of receding the duties on I
undery of Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or SafTafras flreet, in the City I
6c charges, of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Cl»ir, Efq in the 1
° County of Montgomery; ond ot the house of Abraham Du- j
he Unitde bois, Esq. in the County of Bucks; of which all perfonspof- I
§4W felled of f»ch Carriages arc desired to take notiee. Ig r
■: Notice is also given, lan
ip. TO ill retail dealer in Wines, and foreign diflilled fpiri- Iph
REWS and tuous liquors, that licencej will be granted to them ; one li I oil
NDREWS cence for carrying on the bufinefs.of retailing of Wines, in a I
ins who are lefsquantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one I —
house, are licence for carrying on the business of retailing Spirituous li- I
r . quors in less quantities than 20 gallons, at the fame time and I
iWS, at tie fame places, by the officers legally authorised to grant I
/hatves. fuck licences.
d ,f WILLIAM NICHOLS, lp
Infpeftor of the Revenue ot the firft survey 1 q
of the dillriflof Pennsylvania. J
Office of Infpc£lion,at ) *j 3* I S
cell recom- Philadelphia, aift J'dv, 1796. $ (□
agement of ' j ,
able encou |
yini' to the WAITED, [S
An APPRENTICE to the Prirting Business. j (
mwf Enquire at this Office. 9
FOR SALE.
PORT WINE, and . . j
HOLLAND GIN. of fhefcrft qusU.if? >n P 'P<£
FRAUNCFS and VAN RbHD,
Btekcrs nod Commiflion Merchants No. 63, So. jd St. .
Who discount approved NOTES of hand. ,
W. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted.
j SnptemSer .4- '
I ~ THIS DAY ts Pi)aLisfi?T)T
By W. YOUNG, MILLS and Son,
Corner of Second and Chifnut Jlrcettf
' Price t X l-i cents* . j
The Prefidimt's Address
To the People of the United States,
.INTIMATING
I The resolution he has formed to decline being conCdercd
among the number of those cut of whom a choice is t»
be made, at the enl'uing election of a Prcfidcnt 01 the
United States.
Sept. so. wS
Great is Truth and mult prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for/ale at No- 41 Chrjmit-fircci by J. QR-rl«.OD f
An Apology for the Bible,
By R. Watson, b* jd. f. s. s.
Eijbop of Landaff, &t. -
Being a complete refutation ox Fame s
Age of Reafoti,
Aid the only anf#er to the Second Part.
August 30. 1 —
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By W. Young, Mills and Son,
[Price JO cts. in boards, 6* «-» neatly bound]
An Apology for the Bible,
t, In a series of Letters,
' Addressed toThoir.as Paine, author of a book entitled
— The Age of Reajon, fart tbe second, bang at in
'utilization of true and fabulous theology.
Bv R. WATSON, D. D. F. R. S. Lord Bishop of
aU Landaff, and Regius Profeffor of Divinity
in the University ot Cambridge.
**•.«•_
For sale by the fublcribers,
tN PENN-STREET,
jquarter Chests frefh Hyson Tea;
100 ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea ;
3 co Boxes China, containing foall tea ietts ot 4>
pieces;
400 pieces Bandanees.
Willings & Francis.
t. j January 30 tt&f
§ 1 One Hundred Dollars Reward.
! c OME villainous person or pcrfons having, in the night
>n, Oof the 7th mft. broken and much injured the Marble
I Steps at Mr. Pierce Butiir's door in High-street, No.
t y,e above sum ef 100 dollars will be paid immedi»
I atel* to any one who will discover the perpetrator or
r. h, 0,
' Or SAM. MAGAW.
Sept. 15. *tf&m;j —„
— TAKE NOTICE.
])l- J r>HE fubferiber intends to make application for a re<-
Men «- newal of the following certificate, supposed to be
1 loft on the passage to England in April 1794 =
I Certificate No. 10335. dated 15th November 1793,
mSck- for 1830 dollars and ox cenw—bi* per cent, domeilic
nday, debt, on the books of the Trelfury of the United States,
>y ten j in the name of the Hon. John Trevor. ,
/take ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder s.
e raid Philadelphia, August 30th, 1796. «tu&f6w
utfted I India Tamboured Muslins.
I A small, handsome assortment of fylujlins,
viz.
Fine tamboured Malda and Santlpcrc Mufiins, vaiiou*
patterns and prices.
Plain 6-4 Jaconet. ,
United Corded and cross-barred Muslin Shawls.
th day I Ditto ditto 6-4 and 4-4 Dorcas.
:onvey- Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarse.
at pur- [Japan Muslin!, and
, upon J few pi*ce* extraordinary fine Long Cloths.
iall be for • ale *Y
r to let Thomas Tingey,
:ra 'd"* I No. I*l, South Third-street.
Sept. i». tu&Lltf , T
TO BE 60LD,
That Neat and Convenient House,
dolt I TTTHEREIN the fubferiber now lives. There are lour
YV rooms ou a floor 1 the house is two stories high
above, | w ; t h a good g»rr«t abave : under the whole is an excell- ,
ent cellar, with a dry well, in which is a convenient
ids and J f rame d chamber for preserving meat, butter, &c. in warrri
I weather 1 . Attached to the house is a Stable for three
lor iron horf<jS) hay-los , granary, and carriage-house, a wood-
I yard paved with (tone, and a garden with foil of a fine
J quality. An indifpuwble title will be made to the pur-
I chafer. For farther particulars apply to the fuhferiber is
1 Princeton, or. in her absence to Thomas D. Johnson, Ef*.
I or the rev. Samuel S. Smith.
r . ANN WITHERSPOON.
,lpnne ' 1 Princeton, Aug >4. »™to
B«d posts Plans ot the city of Philadelphia,
s,sdols. J j nc i u ding the Northern Libkrties and diftrift of
sv of the 1 SOUTHWARK,
3° th d »y Puhlilhed, and fold bv
d rcit n y BENJAMIN DAVIES,
fq in the J No. 68, High street,
iham Du- I ( Price one dollar.)
fonspof- THIS plan is i 6 inches square, and has been en
graved by one of the firft artists in the city, from a late
1 and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a Dam
ned fpiri- phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
1; one li 1 city, its population, trade, government, &c.
'inei, in a I J u |y jg t'l&ftf
—and one I ' 1 J
rituous li- 1 FOR SALE,
idtogram By N. and J. FRAZJER,
No. 95, S. Front-street,
OLS, J p r j me Boston Beef, in barrels.
firft (urTey 1 Q eor gj a Cotton.
t Carolina Rice and Indigo.
3* I Sherry and Teneriffe Wines, of excellent quality.
1 Ravens Duck.
1 Indio Bandanno's.
1 Sewing Silks, various colours.
lufineft. | CofTahsar.d Gurraht.
; 9 j Sspt. 17- "MV/.«*w r mr ifini ti nwnnniw mw. m—mhi'jiw—fcmu.to
rOII THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
N.'r. Fenxo,
n lve following extract from a late address is a
r-'i -t,iou« morceau ; it ought not to efeape notice.
Seme of your readers may prefer ihyme to prose ;
; !nt all may be luited, pleale to annex to the ex
"V » tlie paraphrase in Doggre!, qnd obliae a
* CORRESPONDENT.
— W.
v ■ "Tp the Electors of the City of Philadelphia.
" Fellow-citizens,
" YOU will be called on in a,few weeks to ersr
r..: the grejiteft right which independent cftizems
\ in tbe chooGng of men to represent you
the Hoofe of Congress of the United States
. 'i tin* Legislature of Pennsylvania.
" 1? becomes you therefore to reflect calmly and
.!:i)cr?.tcly on the you are about to perform,
(-( r.lcer well tile ch3ra6ler of the different candi
. if,? who" arc proposed to you for your fuffrage :
>J you find them men who buoyed up by then
vrcalih consider themselves superior to the common
rnafs of the people, if you find them men who
"C'C inimical to our secession from Great-Britain,
it you find th-m men who in those v tirae£ that
tr;ed men's fouls" shrunk from danger, you will
appreciate their merits by the standard of their cha
■ rafters.
" At this time when an ariftocraticsl influence is
daily pervading every corner of the United States,
when a combination of old torits, Biiiilh agents
and speculators, pretend to dictate laws to you, it
becomes you as citizens of a free Republic to en
deavor eocrulh them.
" Think not that I exaggerate, every ,one who
■will but reflect on the conduct of a certain party
among us for some time past, will find that it is
but too true.
" The"doctrines these people hold up are that the
fwini/h multitude mull be annihilated in a measure,
and tjiat a choice set must have the management of (
every thing in order to give a certain energy to our
government bordering on tyranny.
" Exert yourselves therefore early, and un!ef3 you
do, you know not but this may be the time
you will dare to exercise the privilege you now en
joy of choosing your lawgivers, and the last time ,
-I shall dare to address you in this way."
THE PARAPHRASE. f 3
WHEN a few weeks are pad away, j
Comes on your great eleiJlion day; !:
Then you'll be call'd to exercise ''
The greatest right which fret-men prize ! "
To ehufe for Congress and the State, I
Your wisest men to legislate. ri
In doing this our club should guide, ft
And on each chara&er decide ; f.
For we now swear, you know its true,
Curfelves, we scorn to have in view : p
No—never fliall our aAions prove,
Our country is our second love— t<
" That we the public good pretend, ' rr
" While private interest is our end." b
The acl you are about to do,
With calm deliberation view ; l
Consider well before you vote,
Your ticket by our orders wrote. re
While we have watch'd the public weal 01
With indefatigable zeal— re
Men, whom we therefore must despise, ef
Have caught full many a goodly prize. th
Beware of fljch, their wealth is pow'r— k.
I he common mast, they will devour.
These men were all with terror smitten, V
When we seceded from Great-Britain ;
A crew who never lir'd a gun,
But in " foul trying times", all run. (h
At this time when an influence " th
Aristocratic in each sense— t
Pervading ev'ry chmk and cranny,
Proclaims our enemies are many,
A combination of old tories, .
(Poh ! do not iaugh at Benny's flories) c '
British agents, speculators, of
Who set themselves up for didlators— in
At such a season should we faulier, vv
How well we lhould deserve a halter ! s 3
As men whose hearts with freedom beat,
Let's crush the rep iles with our feet;
pnr we the maxim must maintain, m
We're slaves whene'er we cease to reign. m
Think not that I exaggerate, le!
When I my fears so ftronglv state i ni
For every one who will refletf, „ c
May fee what party can effeiß ; f
our apathy you'll quickly rue,
txperienee proves it but too true. W .
The do&rincs 'that these people hold, tl<
Are that the world is led \jy gold; <3i
That "we're a "swinish multitude," w;
So dev'lifh dirty, iioii'v, rude, j ro
That they can never live in peace, ni
TTpi.il our clubs are made to cease;
. And here they quot- t' effect our ruin,
What France has done, and still is doing. 3r '
The people too, our hobby horse, ,
Have lately made the matter worse; pa
They £ive no credit to our lies, th
But chufe to fee with their own eyes. ' f r j
Of peace they feel the consequences, be
Biftmft our tales, but trust their fenl'gt.
A cliofeji set they swear (hall rule 'em,
-Vnd demagogues no more befool 'em. co
"Not a pack'd crew in conclave made, ve
Our fchtmes of anarchy to aid 1 th
But racß who'll strong the union bind,
And keep the peace with all mankind—
To law give energy so firm,
That we can only kick and squirm.
Therefore my friends yourselves exert r
Be early—play with zeal your part.
Time rapid flies—'tis quickly past,
And this perhaps may be the last, vo
I hat you may dare to exercise, th
Those arts on which onr club relies: t g
For don't you fee these privileges,
The p.-r,pits' fov'reign will
' here's not a town throughout the Hates,
"ut what our {yltem execrates—
' nd I tnyfelf your great reporter, an
eel my own tether growing shorter; iia
Ure long so small will be the scope, to
Tnat I may want an inch of rope. Prp r
— COl
NEVV-YORK, September 21. ' at
The Uefignation of to '
Th: PRSSiDttiT of ihe United States,
' •: time locked for liy inanv, is at length an
<; vtdtous in form. Wc-re perliiaded there is no
j• c cao lay, that-will fully cjiprcli the cftiics:i«n ncl
A.
!!?• in which his illustrious and ircportant ferviees are held
-j by the citizens of this much favoured country ;or that
' will equally expr:)s their regret at being deprived of
the continuance of his paternal watchfulnrfs and c are.
Yet his claims to a snare »f that repose in private life,
1? a which has been so repeatedly interrupted by the earnest
tice. voice of his country, " whose calls he has ever been
ofe ; acenftomed to obey," are certainly strong and powerful
ex . The prosperous and tranquil slate of our country, 111
the accomplifhmcnt of which his exertions have been
so eminently caihfpiriious, being particularlyfavourable
* to his retirement from office, gi atilude for his eminent
ferrices, as well as the propriely of an experiment
11a. how far the stability of our government may i>e depen
dent on the popularity of an individual at its head,
combine to favour that acquPefcence with his wishes
which, under lets flattering prafpefls, might be anxi-
withheld. *
von The valuable legacy of good advice,which He has
ates bequestsed on his departure from public life—the
result of lbr>g experience, aud expressed in the lan
an(' guageof fiimrifcf* and paternal affeif\ion, lhould, 23
,rm _> we have no doabtSt. will, be engraven deeply on the
minds of his fellow chiaens, and transmitted with
S e , : jheir fan&ioning approbr\tio"i» to their pofteri:jr.
heiT « Their filial love
non And confidence are his unfailing treitfure,
vho And every honefl man his faithfulguaril."
ain,
l )at ELIZABETH, (Hagers-Town,) Sept. 14.
To tie WtMrOR of th: WASHINGTON SPr.
:ha " 'SIR,
In your papei of Sept. the 7th, I observe wjiat •
you call a particular and authentic account of the 1
' melancholy event which happened at Bath on Mon- i
day the 29th ultimo ; but I must obfei-re your in- ;
telligence has been (hamefully mifrepvefented ; jhe 1
circumstances are thus : 1
■ho ° n Monda y t ' le 2 Augtiftj a tjuar- r
rel originated in the billiard room between Captain f
Randolph of Virginia, and Mr. Elifha Jarrett. of c
Maryland. After their retiring from the billiard a
] ie room > Mr. Jarrett conceived himfelf injured, which ii
induced him to demand fatisfaftion of Capt. R?n- t
dolph, requcfting by a note to meet him, which note
ur Capt. George 'Fliomas was the biarcr of, but Ran
dolph refufed, faying he knew no such charaiSer ;
a P' a ' n 1 made no reply, but went imnicdi
n(i to Jarrett and informed him of Randolph's' ai
aefwer—then Jarrett procured certificates from gen- ri
ne t ' smen veracity fcewing him to be upon an equa- o
lity with Randolph or any other man ; which cer- o
tificates Capt. Thomas was also the bearer of p
Randolph flill refufed to give fatisfa&ion for the in- h
fult he ( had given Jarret—then came up Captain fr
Blackburn and told Thomas that Randolph fliould ol
fee Jarret 111 the morning, faying that he was Ran- le
dolph's friend, and would represent him ; Captain lii
1 homas said he was fatisfied, then Blackburn reti
red to his company - r and after some ti<ne a Mr* W
Meicer and Capt. I homas began to quarrel, after aj
some warm words passing between them, Mercer qi
went and brought Blatkbum back again, then fays T
Blackburn where is the d—n'd rascal who wifties ec
to disturb any of my company, and said to Tho- ■*,
mas, I thought I had given you fatisfa&ion on that w
bufmefs before—Thomas replied he did not wish to ca
quarrel or have any dispute with him, then Black- on
burn told him he was a d—n'd rascal, and Thomas w;
rep •• dhe was ad—n'd liar ; Blackburn then drew th
out his dagger and dabbed him,'-of which he expi
red in a tew moments. Blackburn then made his at
efeape for that night, but was followed and taken th
day at Williamfport, and sent to Martins- ag
burg jail, and on Tuesday the 6th inft. came on his m;
trul before a special court, where he was adjudged 3c
for farther trial, at the diftridl court to be held at. T
Winchester, on the sth of Oa.—Mr. P,inter, 1 pli
mould not have troubled you farther than dating T
the fa&s, had not some cowardly and patti'al friends so
to the aggressing party, by publishing lies and mif
tating fads, attempted to lefTen the ehara&er of
ihe aeceafed man and Jarrett ; but whenever such so:
circumstances happen as were in this dispute, it must
of necessity create infinite mifchiefs and disorders
in society, good men will be injuriously treated,
while the bad are applauded and carefled. Nay, so
far may the public be deluded by falfe and partial
reprefentauoos, that the best and most deserving of
men mav be pursued with the most cruel hatred and
made tofufferthe greatest wrongs, while the worth
less and overbearing, (hall be advanced toTalfe dig
mty and hoKor. It is well known by all who were ag
perfona.ly acquainted with Capt. that his he
character stood fe.r and Hnblemifhed—he was a man tui
who made his Jiving by hdneft industry and applies- for
tton-no gambler ; nor could he be considered a
dissipated charaaer ♦ neither can any man brW for- for
ward any charge against Jarrett more than is com- pli
| mon among young men, rather imprudent ; but the
mod contemptible and falfe propagations have been
attempted to traduce the character of both Thomas
and Jarrett. Some cowardly and pa. tial writer set
forth m this, and the Winchester paper, the most
palpable lies, faying that in two or three days after
the quarrel, Capt. Thomas.was boasting he had
frightened some of the continentals, whewfrom the,
beginning of the dispute till his death did not ex
cecd five houij ; also that Capt. Thomas offered to W
combat wwh Capt. Randolph at the time of deli
sting the challenge, which was as infamous a lie as
the other. ' J. T.
From late Er*Jtfb papers.
Political correspondence of Mallet no P,w. r
THIS celebrated opponent of th<; French Re- wh
volutton thus pursues his of the position, Vi,
ft " II,C Which contributed Vo
SC.* " ' * «•' "!
"It Will not be,one rf ih« l ea st aifiirditie, of if'
this St 4to have teen the French Republic adopted en,
and recognized ... the political b'erarcby, « thein '
flani whew the governors and the governed avowed ona
to themselves the irapoffibiKtr • • .
-
toty. ' "° r 10 thC ' °f 'he Direc. occ
" This then will have been tlie result ,1
. without weakeiiuig the Solution, have
1 rcUoa wih ooiiitary wlorv and An
i<eld one advantage for her enemies, a~d have's. .voJ, i
!iat what in 1792 Was unhappily undetermined — Jtrs !
Revolution is flronger than Europe,
ire. ~ *X , herefore was it that the war terrified the vir- *
ltrfl t,,0u3 a prophetic Louis XVI. those of liis cou:i J
e,n fellors, whom the fury of party openly treated as }
rfril Jicobins, :iv] aH those who, after the exurapje of
,ia the monarch, fuggelled the horrors, which hoitili
een (; eJ t),it little difcnterefted would accumulate upon
cnt l '' e P 1 ,llcc '" s family, upon the monarchy and
ent '^ c natlo "> 1 hey recpllc£i£d that throug-hout all
en- t ' le '' me nothing- lias been morevfntile, more difor
ad, ganized, more i > »otent than Coalitions. They ic
ie<, member the speech of Trevifeni to tlve Senate of
ixi- Venice, when deliberating upon the propositions of
Julius 11. who hefitatcd whether he (hould accede
133 to th* league of Cambray. "To defeat coalitions
le it is necessary only to fuHain their firft effcrt. This
prelfntly excites amonglt princes, whom, an imme
a3 diatr interest has alone brought together, disgusts,
which engender that produee ruptures."
1 "They remer-ir, tlm, if'Qullavus Adalp'hus,
at the head of the ProtefUnt princes, ftibdued the
half of Germany, it was bccaufe this heto; at once 1
general, flaiefman, legislator and sovereign, made I
a confederation, formed by hitvifelf, bend beneath <
his own genius ; that he executed in.person the f
plans, of which he was the author ; that with the i
celerity of Caefai' be hujhis talents and hischaraft
er ; and that Ferdinand 11. his enemy, was c
iat attached to hie Catholicleague. Ti*y remember- e
he ed, that, if Marlborough, the all-powerful favor- t
i ,e °f his sovereign, and prinee Eugene, a minister c
n- and generalissimo, made Louis XIV totter, a squab- b
he ble between two women broke their alliance. They f
remember, that history does but once "exhibit the a
r- magnanamous example of the Corinthians re-peon
in phng Syracuie subdued, giving her just laws, re- o
of establishing in her walls order, peace ar-d fafety, p
'd and leaving her an entire independence, after have
; h ing delivered her from their tyrants and the Car- p
a- thaginians ! t]
:e "Ah .! their was but too well juftified." »
1- _ c :
> LONDON, July 9.
i- That our readers may be aware of tiie calamitous [
s advances this country lias made towards ruin, we
1- requeii their attention to the following flatement
of the progress of the national debt. In 1755 we
■- owed seventy two millions. —In 1776, one hun
- pred and twenty three millions.—ln 1786, two
1- hundred and thirty nine millions ! And we find
n from Mr. Morgan's valuable tract, that the amount
of the National Debt, Midfumoier 1796, was no tl
- !rfs than three hundred and sixty millions Ster- J)
1
Last week, the town of Douglas, in the Isle of v <
* Man, was thrown into no small commotion by the B
r appearance of a stranger, who offered to fell any tc
r quantity of guineas at ten and eleven shillings each,
s The very highest authority in the lfland was appli
-8 ed to, a warrant was iflned, and executed ; and the tii
•wag «poji the point of being committed to prison rM
t when the sapient informers, by some means or other,
> came to under/land that ten and eleven make twenty
■ one !—The Humlug was undertaken for a trifling
» wager ;it is fuprrflnous to add, that " more-than
r the winner (hared in the laugh."
A few days ago the following plough team was
i at work in a field belonging to R. fixmdman, in t
-1 the township 0/ Cliadderton .-—Three horses whose j"
ages,, with the driver and ploughman, together
» make 231 years. The age .of the firft horse is •
I 30, the fecund 24, and the youngest 23 years.
■. Ihe driver, l'.dmund Carwick, is 70 ; and the )u
: plbughmaii.Adam Beardman, 84 ye.,rs of age— „ n
; These three horses cin plough half an acre of any r"
\ fort of Jaiui in ti day. .
On Thursday the 30th ult. came on at'Holv-
F rood the eledion for sixteen peers
1 for Scotland, when the following were choten • 7
Marqm. of'Tweedale Earl of Aboyne , ,
' J" °r nT,- Earl oF Breadalbane
Ear of Caffiihs Earl of Stair *£
; p' °[ Strathmore Earl of GJafgow
' p a '' ,■ P, 1 "? 1 ' I ''" Cat heart T
Ear of Elgin Lord Somervilb th '
Lar of Dalhoufie Lord Torpichea m ,'
Earl of Nor the fit Lord Napier.
liK Earl of Laudeijdale immediately protested
against this return, and in his protest alledged that
he ought to have been icturned, and that the re
-' »>« -T z
"-MOmlfe-MB co '
forward op the Venetian theatre-, with universal ap- K ,°
piaule, tailed " the
THE TWO GJtfvTLEMEX 0F VERONA
r- ,! S^KSPEARb.) '' '
T 9 "' Signior Buona P«t« { r\
-Second Gentleman Signior Beaulieu rol '
Lord Bogey, Senior Affino
Windhamoro, Sig r j or Apoftato , I, " C
}Cr Senior Canningo ed ,
' ?h T>' 1' Pittacchio ' 1
WhhaT- uit- S: «" iora C ath»'i„a
Irmwphal Entry i !lto Milan-i,, wWch lt
an Archbsfap danceij a Hornpipe. to "
rh e piece was highly applauded, and is likely " L C
to have a great run. ' the
N. B. Some of the principal performers have it
in contemplation to viljt Great Britain. ' ol
~r . i', e ' zr: ' an^a forgery.
The Debentures on Ms'U were the
| engagements of the Emperor i„ the rrr i,n 7 " '
lauve to the fdver p b tc which he waited tlborlow T
of <he people, and which W of them were
enough to L?nd. llt: P ut
1 heir infamous W er- rtirftrA k *>
onapart-e—the iews wrrc <r a by Bu- thai
I petition of fucuji fraud hr T'if > Bn l r re " the
be executed 'he «»'em they ftould O ,A
here was another inftinr#»
occurred at Pavia where in ] cfous Vlr 'ue . mti
fcienct-, he ordered " " T U
■O refpea the houses of the AicfpJZl •'• '
Spallanzani, 0.., , ' vlz ' r
Voha, ® Ca 'l )a ' and fire
And they were rcip-ftcd 'i !
- i
W:J, I The £A£T INDT4 SPICERT.
| Th > "'"ineofr trade. which is i,.,„ ;,Jc c ]y"to fa/,
entirely i V n the ham's of the English, was raifcri
vi"r. ,to1 1 s prclet" nv-rjtode !.y th« following j_, '
)un j After the Duuh had drucii the Port'l ,ie:; ut > ,
to* jof »!s*> fcttlemt nts, and by a fnies of war, a n'd
eof viaoriei againlf the natives,not o„iy ( orcc j thfm •
liiii- to treaties o' commerce, extlufive ofyjl other n;"
pon tions, but to the admiflion of forts to he u u" '
and such llreights and psflts as command the .. . ?
ail into the traffic of fucb places, they pro< e f d-4
for- cure a monopoly of ail the fpiceWe ,'J.fe r
re- and to eftablijh a power fufficient to fopp, irt •
,of selves in"them againlt any other state i„ the w„ r U
Sos 1 hi, was atch.eved by the multitudes of their J'
ede pie, who furmthed out every year such , „umber
ons of great Jb.ps, and Applied the lofa of so
i w »
fs SKriXlu t!-'- 1
s. raileda btate in the Ealt-Indre,, governed
us, by officer, appointed by the company, h ut "
the mg to those little nations In their neigh botE
tice ikt a tovereign (late, making war an /
l t! ' e ' r klngS ' U> bn '"« twcnt 7 -'thirty mel
uh ofwar to sea, nnd 20,00b men by land J O "S
£ *»••»****»*«.£
ft- From a long experience in this trade, they ae
' 3B P ret /y knowledge of ,he qnß Z rf
ere ch kind of fy.ee neceffar, £ the Cl ,2 mp J> 0 f
>r- European markets; f 0 that their Eaff■ („di»
l K» e P ai( ieularorilt rs that no more « ouJ
lb- b imported into Europe, than was mJLTS
Z " i if at their common sales it
R^ ear ; d a "y PHrt of what was imported re.
y, prices of those commodities v-re keot un t U
ti .«*** p.;'! p :: p :: St.
this branch of"V*Z " ' 1 '!
which they had likewise a monopoly and
c.ufivc treaty of commerce wit!, the Emptor. '
us [ Tht fnllowing article not only exhibit, in thtfimtei
VC "f,«"»; thc M' "f 'he freedom of the sires,
nt ■"> England, but also ajords fame traitj by which
vc the characters of partus may le a/certain^
ro CAMBRIDGE, (Eng.) July g>
id JOHN HORNE TOOKE, Esquhf.
I TT o f "' Cr t ° f this fi cntlea 'ai» had on Mond, r
■o the, 28th ult. a public difiner at the Crown and
Anchor tavern, to celebrate the circumflanceof his
having two thouiand eight handred and nineteen
f vote, at the late election for Weftminfer. William
Bo f lilc - £ fq- was m the chair. Among!} the
iy toasts were the following.
•' Jf L de P andent of Weflminfter,
t- Ihe Chairman said, we had been told at the Huf.
'e tings, that we were tied to a tree—the tree of cor.
- ruption—he would give as a toast
r, Pull and pull, and pull again.
Security for the future and justice for the pall.
8 1 he birth day of our liberties,
n A gentleman defued to jjive '
John Horke Too«e.°
'■ _ Mr. Tooke's health being drank with three
. times three, andgteat applause—that gentleman zJ.
x dressed the company to the following efFedt:
, r " Gentlemen, it is ifcipofiible to thank you fuffi
ciently for the honour you have done me. It wj#
very much unexpected by me, because I unJerflood
that the Stewards would carefully avoid the menti
on of any mail's r.ame in this company. We irxt
y for printiplrs, without the mod distant peffouat
idea of any man or any party ; but certainly with
out injury to the principles which we ait hold, I
except, however, your kind;:efs, and'thank you for
the health you have given to the principle. It is
totally unneceflary for me to fay one word on the s
approbation of that principle to a company like '
this, but perhaps it may not be uimeccffary to fay t
word or two for our own comfort. Gentlemen,
the reign of corruption, yot; may be a/lured, is co
ming towards its close. I ougJit to tell you 0.1
what I found that opinion. I will do it a# ihortly
as lean. A very little knowledge of our hiilory
will fiiew that those Ministers, who principally di
-1 refixH their denduiSl by terror weie shipwrecked up
on that attempt to gaverniy terror. A Jitt'iemoic
3 than an hundred .years ago, the Mi: ifter of this
cuuntry and Lis millions.--wod nf-tW atuirirrf of
governing by terror only, endeavoured to fcciire
t'nemfelves by murdeytig whom they pleaft l ; but
themselves murdered !or the murders 1 i;ry had
committed. A different pra£hcc and a different
ftherae fuceeeded, and those who defircd to be ah
folute ill this country, not daring to begin with
fear, followed up fheir dufires with the eoiltfe and
the plan of corruption. That corruption is drain
ed almost to the dregs, and you have but little now
to fear. In the course of the American war, Lord
Worth pursued the plait of corruption, and lie did
, lt f° '°"g» that Mr. Pitt found but little remaining
to corrupt vvitli, because all he could l«Ty h«k\ of
s barely enough for himfelf and his family. Yott
therefore peed not wonder that Mr. Pitr, thus litu
ated, should have recou fe to corruption of another
fort ; and therefore you find that he introduced a
title which is rather nev.' to us—the title of Mat-
At a former, time we had none of that title,
"'t at the present time, w? have them ia abu: -
ance. Unless lam miibtken, it was fiifi attemp
ted in the reign of Rieha.d 11. and the people of
this country were so offend«l at the novflty of the
title, that the man on whom it was conferred was
cjpipclled to make an apology to the then Houfeof"
ommoiis,and get rid of the title. - only
puling: tofr'tther title?, which you know as well a*
ua, weie atterwards fettled, and that it was agreed ,
t Ist the relations of Sovereigns shall not be among
the number. T«en followed apother order-the
order of St. Patrick.— and tjicn the order of Baro.
net, a diminutive of Baron. Upon tfce fftablilh
tnent of this order a number of persons said they
were gentlemen, and they would not beeomt" Baro
nets, and so the foree of that corruption then failed
in mud, of intended effea. -jjiis fort of art!-
iV e " 1 •' 1 ■' c •" s tfel they ca'inat long orufit bv, and
j t-etefore they attrmptetl our lives. They ihitik
| are afraid j u die, they niiflatej but tbjtt
< ' iproves to me that they themfelws ere under the in* 5?5
rtoenrt of terror. Gentlemen, 1 am hippy that ,
the ingenuity of the Miniftcr was not exhausted
here, for he, to carry on hi* plan, has invented a
tax on houses. lam glad he has—by this tax you I
will know hove many houses there are in the coun- ,
try, apd if Mr. Pitt will give us a register of the M
house-keepers, who support. him, we (hall be able
to tell to a unit how many fools there are in this
country." Mr
A speedy removal of the (linking Rubbish of the j ) j r
present adminiflration.
The Chairman said, he had been desired to give j) :
a toast— ,n §>
The Right Hand of the People. amla
An effe£tual flop to the National Leak. g
In the eolirfe of the evening Mr. Tooke said,
thnt the Chairman (who, from his exertions, was e ]
ahttle hoarse) had desired him to give to the com- Mas
pany the following toafy ; it was the sentiment of hue,
Mr. Fox ; he fbould give it in the words of that choi
gentleman— ,
Dtflruflion to that Admiaijlration -who havt de- _
Jroyed more lives in foreign eonquefls, than Louis
the XlVth, and attempted mare lives at home than.
Harry the Vlllth. f ron
This being drank with three times three, and lhl "
Iwith rapture.
An Ele&or, whose name we do not know,- said '
that as they had drank the univeifal cause of Li- at 1
feerty, he (hould be glad if Mr. Home Tooke wet
would Rate to the meeting, whether it is confident ln - :
or within the bounds of a member of Parliament rec<
to explain his opinion upon the fubjett of Parlia- hng
mentary reform. He underflood Mr. Fox did not lvas
like universal fuffrage and annual Parliaments; and he
if Mr. Fox continued an enemy to reform he would " e y
remain in a minority. And it Mr. Tooke was an bur
enemy to reform, he would remain in a minority
also. He wished Mr. Tooke to inform the people c° R
how to rerain their rights, and expel these mini- 3 }
fters. .
k Mr. Tooke said, nothing in the world ever gives » la
me more-pWafure tlian to be called upon as the gen- rlf )
tleman has done. It is the manner in which gen- ten
tlemen (hould c<dl upon those perfong who are their 0 c
Representatives, or who offer to become their Re
presentatives, and scrutinizing every sentiment they
hold which relates to public Liberty. lam called " a
upon for two things, one which I can answer, and e
one which I cannot. As far as relates to myfelf,
lam able to do it,' and I am glad to do it ; but J' ,u
when lam called upon to explain the sentiments of lie
a gentleman who is ahfent, I mnft beg to be ex- g°
cufed. I thirk the heft, and Hope the belt of
Mr. Fox, although there are some things unex- '■
.■plained by him.-—However it is possible the mo- nl
ment may arrive when you and I, and all of us, ,r
----may compel him to explain himfelf, even if he
were not inclined to do so.
# The gentleman has supposed, that if I were in
Parliament, I too (hould have continued in a mi- mi
nority. I believe not, for both the majority and
Minority would have been unanimous to hang me.
For the means which the people ought to pursue th
to obtain a reform in Parliament, I fay, they ought foi
to pursue any effe&ual means in their power. In
dividuals cannot do much ; but, though the means gr
tfeey pursue produce the mod sanguinary m
nteafures oh the part oFfhe minider, they ought til
rot defid, for liberty may arise out of their blood.
Tl;e privates in the ranir. The convifttd pa- in
/riots of New South I'/ales, and the tried patriots ns
ell over the world. 0) hi
Several songs were sung, and the evening ended ta
in a very convivial manner.—The company appear re
ed to be very well fatisfksl with all the occurences »i
of the day. tl
r_
The society of Arts, Manofaftures, and Com- '1
tnerce, have adjudged their gold medal to James w
Denton, Esq. of Brandon, for having planted 38 tl
acres with acorns They have also adjudged a pre- di
inium of 20 guineas t& Lewis Majeudie, Esq. of r<
Cadlc Hedir.glvam, for dibblisg 15 acres with beans p
and sowing the land the fame year with wheat.
. ' ti
' ; c
Washington Lottery, No. 2.
f I I HE twenty-second and twenty-third days drawing p
X arc arrived at the office No. 147, Chefnut-ftreet, j
Between Fourth and Fifth-ftreets, where they will con
tinue reguhrfy to arrive, during the term of the drawing.
.This is mentioned to the public, to preclude the necessity P
6i advertifijig ended with-great t
n
Canal and other Lottery Tickets may be had at the
above* officc, where all transactions in the line of a bro
ker arc promptly attended to.
Thomas Noble.
Sept. 23. d 3
Turks-Island Salt,
F0 K SALE, r
Per the {hip American, Capt. Shallcrofs—Will be rea- c
iy to discharge at Pine-street wharf on tht: 27th inft.— i t
Apply to-
Jehu Hollingfivortb & Co. '
Sept. 13. mwf j
Thomas RyerJon
HAS just received, by the (hips Molly and Hamburgh '
Packet from Liverpool, and the Light Horse from '
Bristol, and is now opening for sale, at his store No. [
177', Market.lt rift, an extensive aifortment of t
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware 1
and Saddlery.
The ship Caroline, now on her palTage from Liverpool
so Philadelphia, brings the remainder of his fall impor
tation. 1
N. B. At the above store may be 1i;k1, a few elegant t
Mahogany Cases for Table Furniture; also, a good af
fetrtment of the belt kinds of Knives and Forks.
Sept. 23.
Wants a Place,
AS A WET NURSE,
A healthy YOUNG WOMAN, with a Frcfh Breast
of Milk. Apply at the Office No. 234, Matktt-llreet.
Sept. 23. dj l
-..- ~ ' j
For i c ale, 1
The Time of a Negro Man,
Who is a good Ccok. Ei quite -at Ko. 109, South
'
Sept. 23, - dio
I
saw 1
Philadelphia, w h et
FRIDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER ti, < V)'*-
■ Q
Married, on Tuesday evening last, by the Rev. Mr.
Abercrombie, Jamis CnesXDT, F.fquire, of the State of
South-Carolina, to Miss Maev Cox of this city. or /
' , last evening, by the Rev. BiCiop White, with
Mr. William Reeb to Miss Ann M Call, daughter o. CL»/
Mr. Archibald M'Call, merchant, of this city. SP/
— priv;
Death's alleviating hand terminated, yederday morn
ing, the long and painful fufferings of the t.ie
amiable, Mil's Mas? Berry of this city.
' even
By returns in the Boston pipers, it appears, that Lit
.Samuel Sewall, and Ephraim WiHiarrid, £fq'rs, are B
1 elected Representatives in Congress fram the lta'e ot
MafTachufetts —the former in the room of Mr. Good-
" hue, and the latter in that of Mr. both
chol'en Senators of the Uniied States.
On the 14th. inft. there was a violent storm, with weri
• thunder, lightning and hail, near Flemington,
, New-Jersey. Many of the hi»il stones measured n!
from fix to seven inches round, which indented the ' e
| finngles and boards of the houfei and fenees, and otn
destroyed a quantity of grain, &c. in the ground.
) About half a mile from the town on the h»ll,
at the cooper's shop, Thomas Jobs and lus wife s
- were killed on the spot. Fhe child which fhc had c 8
t in he;-arms, was a little burnt, but is expected to
t recover. A woman laving in bed, had her hair
. singed and was otherwise hurt ; and a little boy ec
i was much hurt in the fame house, and it io feared _ * J1
he will not recovet the life of his limbs. Thechim
-3 neys at both ends of the house are burfted,and the 1
a building was left a me-e wreck.
y" The above Thomas Jobs and his wife having I
e company, gave up their bed to their gueils, and M'.
. lay on the floor with'their heads toward the c'lim- of 1
ney stack, when the accident happened. Those
3 that were not injured lay on a bedllead. This tei
rifyiisg temped lalted from the early part ot the as den
ternoon with lit'le inteinnflion untit elevenor twelve con
. o'clock at nipht. wh
— flee
In a late, article it was surmised, that Buonaparte is 1
q was to .penetrate to Vienna through the Hates of
j Venice. But though this mute will be nearer tl an Of
f by Frankfort, yet the Frrtfcn-wiU here have a long
, t jourrrey of 250 miles to take, through countries
,f the mod favourably disposed towards the Aullrian
government. Besides, when nun are Sghling for
,f their liberties, pro aris & focis, the French will Le
find their conquelts not so easy as those they have Le
j. hitherto made ; these having been in detached coun. L<
5) iries difaffecied to the Austrian government. L;
From the COURIER FRANCOIS. U
in To give a jufl. idea of the situation of St. Do-
i- mingo, wepublilh the following leiter: —
id , Cape, 6 Fruftidor, ( Aug. 23, »79^-)
e. Since my fir It Jctt?;, which accompanies this,
re th »r his occurred, and there is (till occurring, what St
at follows:— ,
n- At Port-au-Prinee, and in the environs, the ne*
ns gfvCß arc in a Itate of inlurrettion ; tbey iiave blunt y
ry many habitations, which had remained untouched ■ 3!
hi till this day. The negroes will uo* Avoik.
d. On this fide Grande Riviere, there is a giSRI ri r - A
j- itlg'J the Brigand negroes have killed a negro thicl "
'its named Garnet, who commanded for the republic,
his family and et»t-*isjor. . fiiteen thoulatid men "
ed taken (rum the principal posts, are to go ajjainlt the
ir revolteis; they doubt much the fticcefs of these
res new republicans. 1 deplore the uniispp-v fate 01 l
the inhabitants of St. Oumingo. It is impossible
for them to come with fecuriy" 10 their habitations.
m- 'i'he necroes who have returnedto their habitations
les will not absolutely attend t» fpeakt» t.heir masters :
38 they are v. illinjf enough to be republicans, bu: 0
re- dc travail, (no work) —they think it'is contrary to
of republican rights—By this title, they are to bs sup-
rns plied with all tfiat is necessary.
The made is thrown off—The negroes fay, haugh- *
tily, that St. Domingo belongs to them : on this
condition they will work, otherwise not, &c. &c. r
. Here follows a letter of the Directory, and a
ing protlamatKin of L. F. Sonthonax, dated AugMft 1
ect ' 18, relative to this infurreflion.
on " This proclamatiou declares, that the Northern
part of St. Domingo, is in danger. It orders,
reat that »ltTnTmaYi;ie<tciti/ensfrom 161025, whoaie f
not employed in agrictilturc or in the offices of tKe 1
commiißoners' be considered in a state of requifi- )
tion —Those whofhall not obey these orders with- c
out affigciing a legitimaje reason, aie to be declared
J and treated as traitors, and tried by marti'ai law.
Emigrations are foibidden, Sic. 1
A letter appears in the Csurier Francois of this '
morning from Henry I'erroud, former Ordonnnteur
ga " jof-St. Domingo, &c. &c. in whfcii,' after faying '
, that tht accounts of the distressed situation of that '
if] nd are fabricated by interetted, evil minded per-' '
sons, enemies of republicanism, Sic. goes 011 to ! :
- flaw, that Gonaives, i'Artbonite, la Petite Riviere,
and their dependencies, enjoy, under the orders of c
, general Touffaint Louvertare, the grcateit tran
rom : the plantations near the enemy's camps
No promise a tine harvelt. The cultivators rej .4ce in
the sweets of liberty,'and woik coriftantly for the
■g houses to which they are attached, &c. 6cc. j
On this the Editor of the French paper oblervcs, ,
I —We shaH not permit ourselves fe judge 011 cir- ,
ior _ cumftances so important. We leave.our readers to
decide between the accounts given yesterday, and
jam the letter we have published to-day.
Ul- l.llillMlll l IM.I
- • bY THIS' DAY's MAIL.
SALEM, September 16.
. cast NAVAL COMBAT.
ct . Captain Samuel Cook, who arrived here on Wed
nesday, from the Wt fl-Indies, via Charleston, was
~ informed by a pilot from the Vineyard, that there
had been an engagement between a French Jvd an
English frigate, off Gay-Head, in which the latter
out j l had her main and mizen mart carried away, and was
otherwise much damaged ; so much so, that (he
went into the Vineyard to refit. The a£tion was
only ai>out a mile from the land. Captain Cook Extra
saw the English but it was not known fch.
where th« Ffeach frigate was. ■
BOSTON, September 19. near
From Biirlarlocs.
Capt. Bacon, arrived here yefterdny, left bar
badoes, August 24 ; he inform*, that on the 19th j- a y e j
oF August, a frigate arrived there from Gibraltar .
with the intelligence of WAR BEING DE
CLARED BETWEEN ENQLAND AND c
SPAIN, and that previous to his failing, fevera! .
privateers were fitting out, and cn? had a&ual y ran J e
failed on a siuize. It was luppofed that the Dutch ,
fleet would soon make an attack ok that place, an
event which-fecmed confideiably to alarm ths iuha- era j
bitints. (Bafion LTarint Lifi.) hands
By an arrival vefterday from Barbadoes, wv> are
informed,that a packet arrived there the 19th An
euft, d reft from Gibraltar, with dffpatches that f
SP JIN HAD DECLARED !VAR AGAINST wi;h<)
ENGLAND. In consequence of which, they ft
were fitting out privateer''at Barbadoes with the
greatest expedition, to cruize ajjainft '-he Spaniards. an j ve
One privateer had already tailed on a crui/.* before came
the above vefTel left Barbadoes. ihe day oi>f f(i-
formant left Barbadoes, signals were fired a< all the p ren£
forts in the island, »s notiee of the approach of a
fltct, but whether English, or that of an enemy, rpj
ttns not known, as they were under apprehensions aUac j
of a visit from the Dutch fleet at butinam. fucce
(Federal Orrery.) bcfid(
Prices Current at Barbadoes, August 24. triflir
Beef and pork no f a '* T erer
Flour „ 16 dollars.
Bread 6 do
: Fish 61-Z
NEW-YORK, September 22.
;! Died, on Monday the 16th inil. Mrs. Maiy
i M'K'night, wit)i>w of Dr. Charles M'Knight, late
- of this city, in the 44th year of her age.
t CADIZ JOINT FLEET SAILED. ~ hl P
The following lift was handed to our correfpon- " r 'S
dent by an officei of the privateer La Vengeance,
e commanded by the lieuter.aut of vessel L'Eveille,
who failed from Cadiz in company with the said
fleet, was failing with them during three days, and
e is since arrived at St. Croix. Argus.
,f - LIST
n Of the TRENCH and SPANISH MEN OF
g WAR, who fct fail from Cadiz on the lßth
:s Thermidot, (August 5, 1796.) Sloe
n FRENCH VESSELS, Sth
ir COMMANDED BV RlCtfF.Rr.
11 Le Jupiter 74 Le Cenfcur S n °
e Le Barras 74 Le Berwick 74 n *
1. La Viftoire 80 Le Duquefne 74
La Revolution 74
FRIGATES.
La Felicite 40 La Friponne 44
j. L'Ambufcade 44 „.
SPANISH VESSELS bl0(
COMMANDED BV DON JuAN LANGUARA.
3, 1 Divjfien. p .
;it St. Tnnidada 136 Firme 74 "
Mexico 112 Orianta 74
e . St. Nicholas 80 Attalanta '74 r ,
n£ Neptune 80- Terrible 74
rc j St. T-cluio 74 Glariofo 74
COftVKTS. ( q
;f. Atrevis I 20 Defcobierla 20
; c f fri-ler., 22 Cio 18 rlv
IC BRIGS.
ell Attocha 21 Tartars 18 ,
h( . ad Dbv'ifion.
-f e MEN OF WAR.
0 f Le Prince des Afturies Pclayo 74 gj
3 [ c ,112 Cunecijtada 74
, 1S St. 43«rW- 94 Arragaata , 74
)ps Bahama 74 Galordo, 74
8 . San Vincents 80 St. Darajfo 74
■ [nt SuH>erano 74
tQ FXIG ATES.
Dian 34 Thetis 34 g
Cecilia 46 Ceres 40
jj,. Flora 34 Helena 36
37 Men of War, 9 Frigates, 6 Coivets.
Translated frdm hite French Papers fsr the Argus. G
. i'J Exrraft of a letter from the commandant of the
navy at Toulon, to the minillfter of marine and
esn of the colonies, dated at Toulon, June 29.
„ r} " The officer of the gun-boat Le Nivofe, has re-
ported to me, that he saw the Britanuia, British *
t p e three into Leghorn to repair her main
yards and shrouds, which were cut ty the-36 potin*
jjjj del® from our battery on Cape Sepet.
red " x, y commercial veffela eatered thi'3 port oft
the 2d and 3d decadc of Przirial, and sixty-nine ,
failed thence. 0
" Citizen Bouvrsr, brevet ensign, commandant of 0
the advice-boat la Soudre, writes me, that he has taw
, eur ken ail English vessel of 500 tons, loaded with '
; I)rr grain, I think it my dutv to transmit a copy of
his letter. The conduct of this officer forthelaft
, two years, has always been followed with happy
' to success, owing to his prudence, adfivity and abi-
ere ! lity ; the nomination of him to the rank of captain ?
!-l comaiandaflt, will be lecompence andjuflice.
Signed, THEVENARD. *'
mps Extract of a letter from citizen Bouvier, to vice- a
: in admiral Thevenard. /
the Two days after my departure from Algiers, I r
fell in with the Bridgette, English transport, loaded f
V( f s > with grain on account o: the British government,, /
Clr " of 500 tons, armed with 6 cannon and 6 swivels,
Bto —Too strong fer me ; but determined to take her,
and I Hudied to iubrtitute stratagem for force. I hois- '
ted in consequence, the Algerine flag, and mafic- I
ed all my crew in Turkish habits, myjfelf giving the
example. By the aid of moustaches and whiikers, ]
with a little red on the face, and a rolled towel on
the head, in the form of a turban, our disguise
proved tffeftual. I approached the vefTc'l, which had
the politeness to in ttays for me. At this
fed- moment, hoisting the Republican flag and pendant,
was and firing a gun with fliot, to afTure it, I called out
here in good Freiuh, for the enemy to Hrike their co
-lan lours or 1 wmild fink them—they preferred 10 strike. I
itter Having manned ti'iy prize, I failed for Cafthagena, i
was from whence 1 wri:e you. I hope it will not be 1
she the lad rime that 1 shall give msfqued balls to the :
was Eng'ufh.
Extra&s from laie Jamaica p»per.«, rrc'?vfd the
schooner Delaware, arriwd here this morning.
KINGSTON, Augu.l i+.
The Quebec frigate h.-.s diiven on ihore and buint^
near Gonaives, citizen Olonisr s privateer—l 6 ;
her crew were killed.
Bv letters from perfonson board the fleet, vvhu n
failed from this island in Juiks l at - -9' °> *' e
aie informed, .tltaj the whole on taking theii c.e
partnic frbm Negril Point, amounted to 136 fail,
and on the 30th of Jil»e, were only 127 tail i'«
company, the Jolliers, (among which is the O
range Valley, captain Wade, far Briltol) have ei
ther brcn taken or parted with convoy. The let
t te.r# mention, that the crews of the fleet v.eie in ge
neral vety sickly, and some vefle.s had :n(t many
hands. On the 24.(11, to the of xiavau
nah, they law three fail of French f'nips, one two
decker, and two heavy frigates, which the Phoenix
was sent to reconnoitre ; they bore away, however,
without attempting any thing, our force beirg ton
ftroryj. . *
His majelly's ship Albicore, Captain \\inthrop,
arrived yelterda.y from a cruize. I'ndci convoy
came down the Dan;fh brig Alexander, prise to
his Majelty's (hip Hannibali She was taken by a
French (hip of war, and re-captured by the Hauri
bal off Capi-Francois. ,
The Brigands have lat-ely made three cuTcrent
' attacks on Jereir.ie, in all which they have becnun
fuccefsfui. Their Commander (a white man) fell,
besides many others. The loss on our fide was but
trifling, only two were killed, and a few wotitide ..
Jeremie is now in perfect tranquility.
■ —-T'Tffia'*'"""
GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARIN E LIST.
» % *
f PHILADELPHIA, Slimier 23.
ARRIVED, day 3,
Ship Swift, Norwood, Hull 63
Brig Flora, Stephens, Havannah 11
Maria, Mason, Cape-Francois 17
Georgia Packet, M'Keever, St Thomas 16
j John, Marner, St. Croix 17
j Diana, Guifir, Havannah IJ
Lydia Sc Polly, Jenkini, Bolton 13
Eagle, Johnson, Port-au Prince 17
p Nancy, M'Dougal, . Peterfbargh 10
Nancy, Traves, Virginia 6
Sloop May-Flower, Lord, Richmond 6
Sehr. Catharine, Woglom, Viiginia 4
CLEARED.
gnow Guftavus Adolphus •, Marfeillei
,"t Brig Swallow, Dorfoa Martinique
Cruger, Tinker, C. N. Mole
Schr. Mary Ann, Swai!, Norfolk
Patfey, Hugene, Frederickfburg
do. do. • ,
" Louisa, Sheitr, Edenton
Sloop Sally, Dickey, Richmond
dunce, Woglem, Suflofk
Arrived at the Fort.
Brig Hannah, Kenny, St. Croix
Lady Wafljington, Tremels, St. Thomas
Schr. Hetty, Mason, do.
Sloop Saily, Buflier, Cape-Francois
The brig Richard & James, and schooner Pen
dletwn, both from Philadelphia are airived it New*
2o Orleat s. The fchr. Frederickfburg packet is ar
j g rived at Gibraltar.
Providence, September 16.
g ARRIVED.
c Schooner Nancy, Potter, Turk's Island
Orange, Baley, Jamaica
Abigail, Bates, Savanuah
IS* Sloop Hancock, Davis, New-York
Clementina, Anthony, do.
L Leopard, Farnum, Newport
Lydia, Gladding, Bristol
Mary Ann, Giaves, Jamaica
Lark, Godfrey, New-York
. Nancy, Child, Baltimore
' J ' Brig Rebecea, Feaner, Surinam
Ship Mary, Barton, Jamaica
Halcyon, Taylor, Ifl« of Francc
Oo Tburfday arrived the Ihip Halcyon, captain
itiii Gultavus Taylor, in 125 days from the Isle of
France.—Left there Ships Washington, Sigour
ncy ; Confederacy, jencks, Grand Turkj'Malaby j
Georgia Packetj Chipman ; North 1 ,iberty, Ged
dis ; Brig Betsey, White ; and schooner Flora,
Merick.
ra j n Same day arrived the (loop Mary Ann, Capt.
n]n Graves, from Jamaica. Provilions low 5 fold some
Beef at 8 dollars, and brought back a quantity.
t on Boston, September 18.
n j' ne Arrived, fchr. John Jay, Captain Bacon, 27 *
days from Barbados. Left there, capt. Church
it of London, and capt. S. Barbe, of this town,
whole vessel had been tried and cleared, but from
w j some information that one of the paffrngers gave,
j she was again libelled, and was to be tried the next
* lalt day after capt. B. (ailed. Spoke in lat. 4.1, 11,,
brig Atalanta, capt- Whitefield of New-London,
whoinformed him that in lat. 33 1-2, as he was
jtain to the Welt-Indict, he experienced a very
severe gale, which carried away his malts decks,
load, Bcc. and that having crafted jury malts, he
was 011 his return to port, Capt, B. offers*! him
wee- afliftance, tut he laid he flood in nt» need thereof.
Aug. 31, spoke a brig. capt. Oiam, from Porif
rs, I mouth for the Weft-Indies, who informed that a
aded few days .before, he had lolt his mate, by oamc
ient,, Andrews.
ivek, Ne v-York, Sept. 21.
her, ARRIVED. Days.
hois- Schooner Delaware Packet, Wood, Jamaica 31
naflc- American vessels failed from Havre-de-Grace, July
;the 15— 2 3-
kers, Brig Moses, Meyer, Couper, Loaded lor Cadiz. t
el on Fame, Wiifon, in bailatt, do.
guise Franklin, Shaffer, do. Beurdeawc.
1 had Diana, Rofliter, do. do.
this Minerva, Rathburn, loaded, Liftwn.
dant, Apollo, Hahbet, in ballast, do l
d out Havre, July *3.
ir co- The vessel Sally, capt. Chipman, en
trike. teted this port yesterday in 35 days from Chatlef
gsna, 'on, with 79 French citizens from the Wett-In*
ot be dies. Fell in with 3 Briiifh Frigate 9 off Baifleur,
o the and was visited by one of them. —[The captain in
forms of the rire at Chailelton.J
1 » •*LANDING,
¥rom on beard the Brig REBECCA, Dominic Divine,
Master, at Philip Care's Wharf, and for Sale by the
Subfcribtr,
London Particular Madeira WINE,
In Pipes, Hogsheads and Quarter Casks.
There are in the above parcel 10 Hhds. of CHOICE
OLD WINE, fit for immediate use.
Robert Andrew.r,
Sept. 6. mw&f No. 86, So. Wharves.
tHIS DAY PUBLISHED,
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefout-ftreet,
(Price 12 1-2 Cents)
The President's Address
To the People of the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
at the expiration of the present conflitutionul term of
prefidencv.
September 20.
JUST PUBLISHED,
From the Press of MOREAU DE ST. MERY,
And to be had at the principal Booksellers in the city,
(Price five five-penny bits)
A Humourous Pamphlet, entitled
The Political Maflacre;
Or, JJnexpeSed Obfet -vat torn on the Uniting J 0/ our
present scribblers.
By JAM ITS QUICKSILVER., Author of the Bine Shop. '
Embelliflied with a curious Caricatura.
Sept. 19. dtf j
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE. f
No. 63 South Third street, opposite the national new Bank, t
SAiMUEL M FROUNCES and JOHN VAN REED, j,
have entered into co-partner Ihip, under the firm of [
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and c
fell on commiflion every species of stock, notes of hand, n
bills of ex:hange, houses and lands, &c. si
Money procured on deposits, &c.* &c. all kinds c ( c
•writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
rnoft corre<sk manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a share of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmoli secrecy observed.
#,SAMUEL M. rRAUNCES,
john Van reed.
Philad. August 27, 1796. m&wtf
BRANDY, ]
OF lft and 4th proof, and equal in quality to that import- c
cd from France, may be had of the fubferiber at his Distil
lery, No. 115, Story or New-street, between Third and
Fourth-streets, where the public, upon application* may t ,
judge for themfelvea, and w ill find it an object well worth n
thrir attention. a
RUM and GIN in any quantity, for exportation or home
confumptijn, and of fuperiot qujlity-*-by 0
Thomas Cave. v
P.S RYE, MALT, BARLEY, and MELASSES, will
be purchased, or taken in exchange for spirits, upon appli- t
cation as above. . Also any quantity of Claret or other wine a
(it for distillation.
Auguilsgh, 1736- M4W ,
-L_. . , -
Now Publ'i/hing by the Printer, a
At No. 3, Lsetitia Court, delivering to Subscribers,
?nd to be had at the different Book-Stores in this City* 1
Berriman & Co's
CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OP t
The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the Old and Now «
Testaments and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes and re- 1
ciences. An Index ;or an account of the mod remarkable
paflagesin the old and new Testament, pointing to the places f
wherein they happened, and to the places of fcriptute where- i
in they arc recorded.—A Table of Time.—Tables of fcrip
turemeafures, weight*and coins : with an appendix, Contai
ning the method of calculating its measures of surfaces
hitherto wanting in Trtatifa on this fubjcQ. A Table of OJjica
and Conditions of men.
CONDI TIO N' £
1. The size of this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO, c
'printed on a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par-
ticularlyfor it, It will be publilhcd in Numbers, notto ex
ceed 30, one of which will be delivered weekly to fubferib
ers, at a quarter of a dollar. Thofc fubferibers who prefer .
receiving the work complete, willbe attended to by fignifyiug j
the fame on any of the fubferiptioa papers ia rfae Bookstores ,
in this city. j
2. There will be an advance in the price, on Tlibfcribkig ;
after the firft of Augulfc next. i
3. In the courfeof the Work will be given an elegant
Frontsfpiecc—-From an Engraving of the celebrated ariiii, '
Gk I GNION.
Berr iman & Co. gratefully acknowledge the very liberal 1 '
encouragement they havemet with; and havereaiqnto believe 1
that the execution of their edition will answer every cxpcc- 1
tation, and Jpeak its own praije.
May 26 fliweoM.
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE EOR SALE,
Souchong
Hyson Skin )
• Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS
Hyson and \
Imperial
Yellow Nankeens
China Ware, alTorted in Boxes and Chcllt
•Quicksilver
flaadanno Handkerchief* of excellent quality So
ehefts
London Market MADEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, iiogflieadi, &
New-York My set J qvaitcr
Teneriffe Wif.t in pipes and hogfkeads
Sugar Caj/(?y by the Bo*
Sail Canvas No. i a 8
T,< A in ftieets
3 Casks of Cutleryaffoi tod
A few chests of Manchefler Goodi, aflbrtfd tfcids
fets, cords, striped Naaiecns, flee.
3 Small packages of bl.vk fewiog-filk*
!( Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Nails alTorted in calks
July 18 mvrScf
Mr. Francis"
(Of the Neia Theatre)
TAKES this opportunity of returning tianks to feu
scholars and to the public. Mr. Eraazcri
cn his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
demy fen- dancing, ipon a plan entirely new. He
flatters liimlelf tlsit his attention to l:i» pupil* hi
therto renders any promises of conducing JjU future
schemes on the rnoft libei al and flriiSA. Utms, cf p>o
priety, totally unneccdar)-.
iV. B. Trivate tuition as ufiJ*l.
June 3 i3«r
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late veffeb from jlurope, See. ■
AND HAVE ,1 OR SALE,
\ general afTortnaent of GOODS, suitable to thi Lafon
Amongst which arc,
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
plain and twill'd COATINGS,
Rose llrippd and point BLANKETS,
FLANNELS a:ufß .-USES, <
HATS afu rted in cases,
IRJSH LINENS,
INDIA GOODS, generally,
A Consigned Invoice of IRONMONGERS,
ComprHing a capital afTortment to open aftorp ■mc.lu■-
ding Thirty Calks of NAILS. This involte will be lold
entire on very advantageous terms.
September 20.
Lottery
FOR raifinj fix thouf&nd fix hundred and Cxty-fevcn
dollars and fifty cents, by a dcduclicn of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
I 1090 lOCO
1 500 s°°
5 2CO lOCO
20 ICQ 2COO
99 50 495°
aOO 25 s°°°
2000 IO "20,000
5 Lafl drawn numbers of ICOO dollar® each, 5000
2332 Prizes. 44*450
4628 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars c&ch, 44.450
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftabiifh-
ing UiefulMantfadures, the Aiperiiitendalits of the Pat- t
erfon I.ottery have rcquefted the Managers to offer the
foregoing Seheme to the public, and have directed thejn c
to refslnd the money to thole persons who have purchased a
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickcts
in this Lottery. v
l'he lottery has a&uaily commenced drawing, and will
continue until iinifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes r
may be seen at thr office oi William Blackburn," No. 64 j,
south Second flreet, who will give information where tick- 2
ets may be procured. t
Dated this 17th day of Tune, I/96.
J. N> GUMMING, ")
JACOB R. HARDEtfBERG, > Manigers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
dtf eot
Samuel Rfchardet, »
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen "
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY .
TAVERN and MERCHANTS GOFFEE HOUSE in the '
city of Philadeiyhia:
The Subscription Room will be furnilhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, to!>ethef with thole of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be ragulafly filed '
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety ,
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments, '
will at all times be procured at the bar.
may depend on being accommodated with f
the choiccft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the molt
approved Malt Liquori from London and other brewerie».
The Larder will be fuppKed with the prime and carlieft "
produ<9ions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or Cngle Gentlemen, may be ,
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours molt convenient to themselves—a cold Collation Ss
regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had c
at the bar. 1
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifiied, and
the utmoll attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite. J
Samuel Richardet will behappy to receive, and c
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at *;
lafge; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himl'elf that nothing 011 his part (hall be wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been l'o diliir.guilh
ingly (icnored.
Philadelphia, April 19. irnvf
Treasury of the United States.
NO'il CE is hereby given to all persons who are or
may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
of the Funded Debt, cr Stoci, icsring a present interejl of fix '
per ecnium per annum.
ift, That pursuant to an Adt of Congress palled on the
aßth day of April, 1796, intitlcd an adt in addition to an
a&,.intituled " All act making fuither provision for the
support of public crgdjt, and for the redemption of the
public lit-'bt," Ute S'luJ debt or flock will fee reimbursed and
paid in manner following,to wit. 1" Firi, by dividends ,
" to be luade on the lad days of March, June and Septcm
" ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand
" seven hundred and uinety-feven, to the year one thou
-1 " land eight hundred & eighteen incluiive,at the rate of
[ " one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
. " Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lafl day of
" December for the present year, and from the year one >
" thousand seven -hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
" one thousand eight hundred and l'sventeen inclulive, at
" the rate of three and one lialf per centum upon theori
" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be maJc on the last
" say of December, in the year one thousand eight ,bim
" drcd and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then a ie
" quate, according to the coutraA, for the filial redemp
" tien of the said ilocli."
wi> All diitinition between payjAents on account of
lniere/1 and Principal being thus abolilhed by the eflablifh
ment oi the jiermancnt'rule of reimburfemeat abovs de
fcrftiei, it has become necessary to vary accerdingly ,the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
creditors, will therefore oWerve that the following form
is eftabliUicd for all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
a XNCIV ALL MEN BY THESE PXEBLXT!, ihM
I rf
Jo mate, cmf:iutr and appoint
k my true and tjivful At
torney, forme, endin thy irtm, to receive tbe dividends zrtlcb are, '
orfbatt be payable according to lain, an tbe (hei-e dcfcribing the
stock) Jlanding in mj name in tbe bucJu of (here deicribjng the
bopfcs of the Treasury or the Cominiffioncr of Loans,
where the flock it credited) from (liere mlert the corti
•metueiuetit and expiration of tiaie for which the power of
attorney is t« continue) 1 vithfrwer also an attorney or attar
etcl under him,far thatpurpofe to make andfabflitUe, and to do all
L-ufulußi requiftefor ejecting tbepremifu, terdy ratifying and
cmfarmWg alt that t*y said Attorney nr fufuhfiitutc,JbaU lawful
ly cit, Jby virtue tereof
ItH\itnefi tereof, I hxve set my Hani and Seal ■tbe
dy cf • ia the sear
Coaled Aeii Del?acred
■in prtfenc^pf,
BE IT XNQ WH, ilst cn tie Jays
j <fw.i cue£arf anally xutue
-arJfiiu named and AchunvleJgeJ the etbne lett r of attorney, to 'he
Lis .Cel- jztJ d.cL
l~ 2* lejlimonj vdercof I bene hereunto ft my Hand and ajjix
£* Seel tbe Jay and year lajl aforefaid.
Ohwß «md.!r my Hjndat PhiladdiJiia, t!-is twen
txA day of July 1796, pmleairt to dire&iom.
£i«ia tUci!cxreuryt>ftl>e Txealury
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
yca/urcr tj tbe United Statu.
9&111 j. \
f A Manufactory FOR ,
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Mim.tf.fior., fiiu» ' j
in a convenient part of the city, {the work, almotl at* ,
o„ an entirely original conftruflion, and bti.lt of iK; he.t f
materials, and may be fct to work immediately. Pcrfons j
who'fli to purchase, are requested to apply at .\o 173, II
South Second Street.
S.-p.en,i>r . 3 - ."X■ ' f 1
City cf W
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE' IMFUd'EUEA'T 0 / THE
FEDERAL CUT.
A magnificent ? 20,00 c tlMars, & 7 0(j0
.dwellinf-houfe, 5 cacti 3°> occ i a: e 5
1 ditto 15,000 & dais 25,000 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,100 10,000
1 ditto .5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
2 do. 5,000 each, are * 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
20 do. 500 • * 10,000
00 do. ma - • 10,000 1
200 do. 50 - - 10,000
400 do, 25 - xo,ooo
l,cco do. 20 - 20,000 i
15,0C<3 do. 10 - " IJOjOOO
• 1
r'6,739 Prizes. !
Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at ElyTtt isol!ai't, 400,00b
N. B. 'I*6favour those who may tike a quantity of
Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars wilt bethe last drawn
ticket, and the 30,0C(Jthe usr but onb :
And approved nous, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received sol
anynumbernot less thaii 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant fpccimen of che pri
vate buildings to be ereiStcd ih the City of Washington—
Two beautiful designs are .'ready ieledted for the entire
fronts on two of the publii t'quares; from these prawirxgs
it ispropofed to erect two centreand four corner buildings, 1
loon as possible after this lottery is fold, and to convey _
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in *
the manner described in the lcheme for the Hotel Lottery. '
A netrdtSTuTSxon of five per cent, will be made to defray
the neceifary expcitfes of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for theNatianal
Univerftty, to be elected within the city of Washington. ~
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.-—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
afte* it is finifhsd ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers axe not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is clofcd, are to be confidercd a 6 given towards
the fund for the Uiixverfity ; it being determined to l'cttle i
the whole bufmefs in a year from the aiding of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security. , c
The real securities given for the payment of thePt izes, -
are held by the Prclidettt and two Direiflots of the Bank a
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a- [
mount of the.lottery. (
Tile twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commifliqncrs alfifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requeftedto undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public 5 a fufficicut num
ber of these having kindly accepted,it is hoped that the
friends to a National Univerftty and the other federal ob
jects may continue to favor the defigft. (
By accounts received from the different parts of the ]
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets j
have been sent for sale, the public are allured that the j
drawing will speedily commeuae, and that the care and ]
caution unavoidably neceifary to inlure a fafe disposal of ,
the tickets, has rendered the lnort fufpeulion indispensable. ,
SAMUEL BLODGET. ;
Tiekets rj»y be had at the .Bunk of Columbia ; o ]
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilmau, Boston ]
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells ]
Cooper's Ferry. co I
Watson's Answer tc Gibson.
JUST RECEIFED,
And for sale by J. ORMROD, >Jo. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
Apology for Christianity,
In a fcrij t ofJLetters, addressed to
liimAßß Gibbon, Esq.
Author of of the Decline and Fall of the
Roman Eftipire:
By R. tPATSOi\ t , d. d. f. r. s. Bifbop of Landaff.
(Price 75 cents bound.)
"Watson's Aniwcr to Paine,
To be bad ut the fame place.
Tke enemies if Religion arc awake ! Let not her >
friends Jlccp.
Sgpt-'t- ' mw&ftf
11 A Y N E R T A Y L O R7~
Music Pxoeessos,
No. 96, North-Sixth Street.
. ,T> ESPECTBUI.Lv informs his Scholars, that he has
■ -li— :i ff.'r fifop (nmilKT Vflri
cation ; and, as ulual, teaches Ladies Singing- and the
, Piano Forte. Sept. 3. ""jS
- ' I 'WE Stibfcribcr, having been reduced in his circum
X itanccs, by sundry misfortunes, and being thereby
iiuable to fatisfy his jufl debts, hereby gives notice to his
[ Creditors find toallpcrlons concerned, that he intends to
a l'pi7 to the General AlTcmhly of Maryland at their next
. feflton to be held on the firft Monday of November next.
c for the benefit of an uA of infolvepcy.
c WILLIAM EDMONDSON
„ Eafton, Ift of the 9th month, 1796. lawtiflMN
„ To be Fold,
APLANTATIGN, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Gloucelkr, and Hate of New-Jersey, contain
- ing abcut one hundred and fifty a«cs; a fultable propor
tion of which i» woodland and improved meadow. A
e great part of the arable land is in a high slate of cultiva
c tion, «nd very natural to the production of Red Clover,
i, On laid plantation there is a genteel two-itory brick house,
- with four roofns on a fisor, and a good dry cellar under
if the whole ; together With a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
- house. Vhe garden is large, and contains a good collec
;/ t:on of the best kinds of grafted and inoculatcd fruit trees;
d the orchard confilh of aho»t three hundred grafted app'e
!- trees. Any person inclined yarchafe said premiies, tuay
be informed cf the terms by applying to
» ANDREW HUNTER.
J"'y j
To be Sold,
At No. 128, \orth Second-Street* and by federal
k the apothecaries in this City. I
r T~*ll ANSFERS of the rightio remove pains and infiamma
1 tions from the human fccureu to Dr. ELISHA
PERKINS, by patent, with inflruments and dirc&ions ne- I
cellary for the practice. Thu mode of treatment i« particu- i
1_ larly » -♦ul in relieving pains in the head, face, teeth, breail, !
fide :ach, back, »heuindtifms, recent gouts, &c. &c.
/. the utility of this pr.&ice, it is not prc
iurncd but there are cafos .a wiiich this and every oihci
laucc , may L>u:et^ncs
1 >•
j Waflnngton Canal Loiter/
' u°. i.
1 tm.KV.AS ifie State of Mwyhsd has JutS.-
j VV the underwritten, to ralie twerity-lin thonf;. . V -<-
i two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose or cu'tj i
I a Canal through the City of Washington, frosi tr.
teniae to the Eaftcni •Branch Haruour.
The fallowing: is .he SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -I Prize bf 10,060 dollars, • 2:: >5,
t ditto 10,000 jo 00.,
7 last drawn >
Tickets, each { 5> J -° 35i50c
6 ditto 1,000 6,90 c
10 ditto 400 4 . - K J
20 ditto 100 i' iool .
55 ditto 50 1)750
S7jo ditto xi 69.008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,150
5850 Prizas,
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
0- The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid ad lor the punctual payment >j£
the prizes.
The drawing of this l.ottexj will commence,, without
dcl.iy, at loon as (1* Tiicts are fold, of which tiiaclr
notice will be given.
Suchprizea as arc not demandedin fix months after this
drawing is finifhed, (Hall be cenfider-d as rclinquilhej f„- e •
the benefit of the C anal, a:id appropriated accordingly
( Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARUOLL, oft).
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKEft,
Wm. m.duncAnson,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wa(hii«;toH, Feb. 11. §
jyiordecai Lewis
H4S FOR SALE,
NANKEENS, long and fcovt.
China, well atfoited.
Quickfilvcr.
Diapers
Baftas. .
CofO.s.
Bandano HamlfcfrfhicfV. —- i
Roll BrimftOrie.
Sept. 6. tt&frm
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
TlflTH a LOT of GROUND thereunto belonging,
VV the weft fide of Thi*-ftreet, near Unjon-ftrcef
containing in front 3 a feet, and in depth joo feet, to art
alley leading into Union-ftrcct. The house is 32 feet front
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained i.f it are
large, commodioas, and completely finilhcd; the two firfc
flories are each 13 feet high ; th?,re are 20 mahogany
doors in the house ; » geometrical ftairtafe, with mahqga
ny rails and a gecd sky-light. The kitchen is in the cell
ar, -which is fpacieus and convenient, and finifted with at*
oven, llew-holes and pantries, a fervsnts' hall and large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an
area in which there is a pump. Th:' yard i? vaulted*
Communicating with the said building is a ne,it « ee-flory
brick house, 011 the north fide of Uuioiiiftreet, coatain
ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; the lower part of which
is at present occupied as a comptiug-houfe, and the upper
part divided into well-finifhed large chambers. This house
may at a small expense be converted into a convenient
dwelling : The street door ij very hami and the front
and back have Venetian ivindou'jfhutLetTi. AdjaimiijMhe
last house, upon the lot belonging to the fir ft, are ercei *d
bathing.rooms, &c. There are likewise vsry good coach.-
house and llables finifhed equal (or nearly so) wiih any in
the city, on a lot containing on Union lirect 30 feet, e:id
in depth 011 the waft fide of said alley 52 feet. There arc
good cellars undei the whole of she building-", and a wine
room over part of the liable, with a hay-lpft over the re ■
nminder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD BOXSALb & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & 1* «r
ti&f flreeis.
6th month 24th, 1796.
~ FOR SALE.
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT ia miles from tins City, situate in AViiiij- |g
toe Townlhip, Montgomery-County ; containing
70 atrcs, a new flone house, two ftorios high, 2 room* on a.
tire places in each, a ilone kitchen and (tone filing
over an excellent spring of water, a b.irn, 'tables,
(beds, barracks, &c, A large 3,/%le orchard, and a variety oi
other fruit, about 12 acres ot good meadow well watered,
and wood fufficient tor fire, and fencing the place. Polielu
on may be had the ift of April next. Property in this
w iil be taken in exchange, 01 MORRIS and NICHOLSON>
Notes in payment. KnquiieatNo, 37, Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, September 13, 179b.
>
■ ~~VT'7m~T 'E~ ©r " j
For any term from one to four years,
AHO I*7SB, |iicafcntly fituatcd In any of the prncipal
streets within the pavement, and not very distant iron.
thetttate-Houfc, capable of accommodating afmallianii
ly ; the house must have fl.al.lcs and coaeh-houfc, an
* would be required to be ready by the firfi week in No
. vembernejct—Euquirc of the printer.
' Sept. 14. us
FOR SALE,
A very Valuable Eltate, f
CALI,ED rir 1T rENH AM, situate in ft>«
townlhip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
* 7 i*a miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from tu
- new Weibrn road: containing 230 acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 ot prime wood-
land, and the relt arable of thu firlt quality. There are
- on the preroifes a good two llory brick house, with 4 rooms
. on a floor, and ceUars under the whole, with a pump-v^e
of excellent water in front; a large frame tarn, (tables,
r and other convenient buildings ; a imoke-houie and Hove,
> spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clover, those immediate y
; under tillage, and arc so laid out as to have the advantage
> of water in each of them, which renders k peculiarly con
y venient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and tne
vicinity to the city, it is very fuitablc for a gentleman s
country feat.
The foregoing is part of the eflate of Jacob Haiman,
, deceased, and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
1 Oifl. 9. tt&f Surviving Executor.
•" PRINTED BY JOHN FJiNNO,
—No. 119 —
CHKSNWT-STRSET.
: Kr'ec Eight Ro!!ar« per Ar,m.m.J