States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Kcmbkr 1337.] 1 WEDNESDAr EVENING 3 DECEMBER 21, 1796. X.
jfjjEL For Sligo and Killibegs, i
The American Ship Nanct,
H Cuthbert Riggs, matter.
Will fail with all convenient speed. For C
freight or pafiage apply to t
William Bell; <
' Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflbrted .
3 Bales Irish Flannels, and 1 boxes Linens
15 Pipes Brandy j
Madeira Wine j Indigo. Russia Matts. .
Also, (
A few barreli Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK, ,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, mwftf
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MART,
SAMt;rEL PARKER, Master,
"oSi lSk'ai" Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY >« not fold in a few days, she will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Oiloher 31. d
For Charter,
£-3-, The Ship JOHN BULKELr,
Ayris Stocxley, Mailer. ,
An excellent live-oak and cedar built t
fh ip, of about 3000 barrels burthen. —Ap-
P ' y ,0 7# Robert Wain.
Nov. ' d-
For Sale, or Charter,
Tl,e sh 'P DIANA,
Samuel Pile, Master,'
Burthen 105 47*95 r(sns register, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1791, of live oak
and red cedar, and was sheathed 13 months ago, Pie
Jus jutt had a compleat out-fit, and may be sent to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin y Co.
Who have for sale on board said vrjfd,
if calks of fine yellow paint. _ ,
I 9 boxes and 11 bundles of writing slates.
I box ink ftrmds and note prefles.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial ~)
Hyson, and, >• TEAS.
Souchong J
40,000 pieces Nankeen* of the Rrlt quality.
19 tubs Quickfilvec.
% chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chests Manchester goodswell alTorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, DiraitKS, &c.
3 boxes black feeing silk.
Igo crates Queens ware well aflbrted.
10 tons sheet lead.
Nails aflbrted, flat and sharp pointa.
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, r an( j hoefheads.
New-York Market, J
40 pipes and 10 hogfhetds Tenenifc wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
»30 legs Mahogany. , „ r f
Nov 7. _____
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House,
No. 99, North Second Street.
Imperial C
Hyson, > Frelh Teas. -^Souchong,
• Young Hyson, 3 <- Bohea
Dec. 9. 3tawjm.
Imported from London Isf Liverpool,
EARTHEN WARE, i« crates and hog (heads, well
assorted
Wine Bottles in hampers
Window Glaf6 of all fi7es
Two cases of ftationarv
One chest of yellow Jefrits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnotta
A small consignment of Rose Blanket*, Flannels,
Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &c.
Paints of various colors.
Balketfalt in hogfteads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in piper, heigfhoads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quahty
Anchors of different
A few trunks of ladies French lhoe« alTorted
Like^fe k an n alfortment of Dutch goods. consisting of
Ofnaberps, tieklcnbergs,bed-ticks, I^"P"''
Mor'.aix linen, platillas, ravens duck, Br tannias, &c,
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas & John Kctland.
Walnut-fti eet Wharf.
Nov. -
Bani of Pennsylvania, 15th Dee. J 796.
The Stockholders are requeued to mee L
At the Bank on Thursday, the twenty-ninth instant, at
10 o'clock i« the morning.
By order of the Board,
ROBERT RALSTON, Cafliiar,
, Fro tem.
§»9th
Women's Cloaks.
GEORGE DOBSON,
No. 25, South Third-street,
Has just received," per Eagle, Capt. Fofdick, via Lon
don, an assortment of
Drab ( Cloaks trimmed with fur and
Purple and T ermine.
Pearl J -
December 15.
EWant~Bruffels h Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, No. tj,South Third-street.
December 15. —
For Sale,
By the Subscribert —In PENN-STREET,
6c Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Immixd by the Eagle.
WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
TV- vt&f
IRIOV. J9
Imported in 'the late arrii'ils from Europe and the
Weft-Indies, Al
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique Moliffis, in hoglheads an
Choice old Lilbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-calks of
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-ciflts co ,
Malmsey Madeira Wins, in pipes and quarter-calks
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes f oi
Russia & Flemish Sheeting and Ravens Duck, in cases pe
Window Glass, 3 by 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in calks de
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes La
Also, on hand, va
A few chests of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; Aflafai- th
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of Coffees,
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete assortment of »'nd 6-4
Boulting Cloths. _
For Sale by p
Pragers & Co.
Oflober »o diwm&tham
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from 11 inch cables down
to rope of 3 inches, of different lengths: Imported in C
the ffcip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept- »7- B dtf
Fashionable Waistcoating. £
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET, *
Has received per the Diana, from London, s
Clouded and striped Spanish SwioCdowit 1
Clouded Erminats and Moleflcims F
Striped do. and d». '
Figured Manillas
Scarlet -figured Erminets
Printed riorinetts
Do. Ciflinets and Caffimeres
Superfine printed Quiltings, n«weft patterns.-"
Also, per different arrivalj,
A large and general aiTortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season.
N ovemher r.
RAISINS.
A few Calks and Boxes of Excellent Fresh RAISINS,
just received, and for sale by
Jo/epb Anthony & Co.
Also a new II i-a inch CABLE, 120 fathoms long.
December 5. 1
Beit Bolton & Nova-Scotia Md.ck.arel,
Excellent Halifax Salman in bbl>.
47 bbls. prime Coffee,
Best Boston Beef,
Codfifli in hdi.
Speiraaccti Candlet,
Spermaceti, and "1 Q j J,.
Northern 3
Mould and dipt, tallow cand'ts, of a superior
qualiiy.
A few boxes excellent brown fonp,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lilbon Wine.
A few sacks of Feathers.
A few India Muflino.
FOR SALE BY
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Oflober 31.
Insurance Company of North-America.
| THP STOCKHOLDERS in this company are desired
to take ntftice that the fccond Tuffday in January, (being
the 10th day of the month) is the day fixed by charter for.
the ele&ion of twenty -five Dire&ors for the mfaing year.
']* he elc&ign will be held at their office, and commence
atjli o'clock, A. M. , f-
ThefubjeS >f the bye-laws of the Corporation will be
fufemitted to their ccnflderation at this meeting.
EBENF.ZER HAZARD, Sec'ry
Dee, 11. tthioj
To be Rented,
A Large Vault and Cellar,
1 That will contain zro pipes, fit'iate in Walnit
between Fourth and Fifth-ftreets. Alio a COACH
HOUSE and STABLE, wifti Stalls for five horses.
N. B. Goods Stored by the month.
Enquire of Benjamin W. Morris.
November 30. m\Tfia
FOR SALE,
About'l,6oo acres of Land,
WELL fltuated, laying oh and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennfytvania, in
four fgparate Patents. For terms of fak- apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South S'cond-flreet.
* O(Sober 31. mwftf
lt SALT PETRE.
A large quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
'• sale at No. aj, South Third-street.
November
Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania.
THE Stockholders are hereby notified, that an eleflion
for thirteen Directors to serve for due year, will be held
at the Company's Office, en Monday the 9th January next,
at 11 o'clock.—And agreeably to the ail of incorporation
a statement of the affairs i)f the company, will then be
laid before them.
SAMUEL W. FISHER, Sec'y
Philadelphia, December 19, 1796." dt 9th Jan.
t. Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike
Road Company.
A Meeting of the Stockholders for the EUilion'of
a Prcfxdent, Managers, and other officers, will he
held at the Company'* »ffice on Menday the 9th Jan.
next, at 10 o'clock.
By the Borrd.
WM. GOVETT,Sec'ry.
December S, l*wuftj.dt9 h
On Wednesday, the 28th inft.
At 6 o'clock in the evening will be fold at Public-Ven- .
due, (if not before disposed of at private sale) at
the City-Tavern, w j.
All that capital mansion-house, stables, owt-hoafcß, &c. f or
and three contiguous tracts ©f land situate on the Weft-fide
of Schuylkill in the townfhi|> of Bloikley and county of
Philadelphia, generally known by the name of Lanfdown,
containing 199 acres i®l perches more or lefsand a messu
age plantation and tradl of llnd in Blockley townfliip a
forefaid adjoining Lanfdown, containing 64 acres one
perch.
The premises are so well known as to need no particular
description. Few feats in America can compare wi'h |
Lanfdown for convenience and elegance ;it commands a ~
variety of rich beautiful profpeCl* and i 6 remarkably heal
thy. Terms of sale will be made known by La
PHILIP NICKLIN, Attoruies in an
AND > faA to
ROBERT E. GRIFFITH, J James Greenleaf.
Dec. 12. •
Frejh Garden, Grass and Flpwer-Seeds,
\ Roots, &c. &c.
This day landing from the (hip Eagle, captain Fofdick, jg
from London,
And FOR SALE bv n
GOLDTHWAIT & MOORE,
Corner of Walnut and Second-llreets, ][)
d mojf capital and extevfive djfortment of D
GARDEN, GRASS and FLOWER-SEEDS, Fi
ROOTS, &c. &c. N
Among which
Five kinds /fparagus Three kinds Cresses _
Four Berecole Twelve Onion
Twenty«five Beans Thirteen RadiHi
Six Beets Fifteen Turnip
Eleven Brocoli Fifteen Peas ft
Cabbage Six Savoy b<
Six Carrot Four Farfnip ti
Three Cauliflower Twenty-three Melon ft
Five Celery Twenty-one Lettuce
Ten Cucumber!
Common and lemon Thyme
Curled kaf and sprigged Purfley
Pot MarygoH Pot Marjorum
Balm Thyme Mangel Wnrtsel
Leek Kail Shallots
Rape Seed Rye Grass Saint Foin Luccrne
Red ar.d white Clover Timothy, scc. &c.
With a curious collection of the most esteemed
FLOWER-SEEDS and ROOTS,
Being the most exteuiivc ever imported i'-to this city. x
The above are from a capital Seedlnian in London, and
art; warranted frefh and good.
Printed catalogues may be had by applying as above. t<
Dec. 17. dtf -
Jult Landing,
At South Jlreet tvharf, from cn bfard the /hip S*dg-
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peterjlurg, t
The following Goods :
Ruflia Sail Dwck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do. j
Do. Diaper. - (
Do. Huckaback.
Do Crash.
Do. Mou'd CandJes, 4, 5 and 6,_to tbo ib. of tht
Engliih
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White ioc.p m small boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
lfir.glafi, ift and and fort.
Horiy Hair uncurled,
RtiCia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and J'uik.
St. Pecerfburg Cleat* Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
Oflubcr ra. 5
New-England Rum, Salmon, Beef,
d Chocolate, Rice, Boflon mould and dipt Candles, a
g few quarter-calks of Sherry Wine, a few barrel? of
r Cyder, and a few quintals of excellent T'ible COD
"• FlSH—for sale by
;e Ezekiel Hall,
ie No. 44, North Water-street.
December 14th, 1796.
A Short Delay
In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery,
In Washington city, has been unavoidably occasioned
by the onforefeen intervention of Mr. Blodgct's Lottery
, —but as the majqr pait of the tickets are now disposed
of, this is to inform the public that the drawing of the Ca
nal Lottery will certainly commence without iail, on the
firft Monday in January 1797, and those holding tickets,
aje hereby requelted to l'end a statement of those fold, and
th«fe on hand.
NOTLY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, ef Duddington,
GEORGE WALKc.R,
THOMAS LAW,
(, JAMES BARRY,
W. M. DUNCANSON.
10 rh« Printers who gave our advertifemenn a place in
t0 their newfpapcrs, are reqaeftcd to give this notice admis
sion, as the remaining tickets arc exptfted to be soon above
par, and we wiSi adventurers to be tiniely informed
N»v. ti.
Washington Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147* Chefnut
®r where a corre<st Numerical Book is kept for public
infpcdHon. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes diaww in the Washington Lottery, of
' r which rhe 46th and 47th days returns arc received.
* Bufmefs of a Broker carried on as usual.
A SHARE in the NEW THEATRE to be foM
on reasonable terms. December 15. ttstf
*n ■ -■
' £ d Davis's Law Book Store,
3n ' No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
b c GEORCE DAVIS announces to his proleflior.al friends,
and the Gentlemen of the ftw, generally, through the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS i* now arrang
ed, and ready for Saie, from a single volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which forfeveral years pail have in so didlinguilhcd a
-p manner recommended them to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the molt extensive collec
tion cf the latest English and Irilh Editions ever imported
c f into this country, are published, and wiil be delivered giatii
« on application.
Otders addrclTed to G. D. in writing from any distance
in * (hall be punctually attended to.
1A number of 1 RL?vKS for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient L©iT» Maiket Streei Wharf.
ov.B. tu&fjw
For Sale,
AN ELEGANT PHAETON, almost new, with pla
ted Harnef* equally new ; and also a Pair of handlome
CARRIAGE HORSES, warranted good and found. Ihe
whole to be seen at the Indian Queen, in Fourth Street;
for term 6, apply to THOMAS Mc. JCLANE.
December 19. *3
For Sale,
By 'Jehu HollingPworth, His 9 Co.
25 hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
5 Barrels bed Indigo, and,
A few thousand buftels of Turk's lfland fait.
Oil. 17. d.
Old London particular Madeira Wine y
Landing from on board the barque Eagle, Cr.pt. Batei,
and for/ale by ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. $6, South Wharve».
November 19. cqdtf
For Sale,
By George No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
and half barrels •
Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoiked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or (ingle one
Dry C»(ififh, from one to fifty kentals
Fine and coarle Salt
I Nova-Scotia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and flucco-wotk
December i. ' ?tf
Cheap French China.
THE fubferibers finding it impoffiblc to supply t#eir
store with any more China from France, the price*
being too immoderate in the manufactories, give no
tice that they will fell at prime cost the remaining
ftsck on hand, consisting of
Deflert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers
Groupes and Figures
Alabalter Vases
Looking Glasses, in gilt frames,
Betid;* India Japan'd Toilet Desks, Chairs, Tablet
nad Quadrille Boxes. PASQUIEK & Co.
No. 91, South Scfcond-llreet.
December sth. . ...
For Sale,
A capital fta«d for business—l hat well known tavern,
the Kwe aiid Lambs, North Front Street, in the
Northern Liberties; a brisk house containing nine fire,
places, and ten rooms well finilhed 5 good /tables and
chair-house, with a frame-houfe on Water street; tht
buildingftands on fonr lots, seventeen feet front each, ma
king a front on front-ftreet, thirty four feet, and nearly
the fame on Water-fircet, and is one hune'red and forty
fe«t d«ep from flreet *0 street, fubje& to 10s. each
lot per annum, ground rent, this property is near the hay
fcales, and public docks, easy communication with the
Delaware waters and advantageoully situated for bufineft
of Various kinds
The above premises are now rented until December
next at X- 1 75PPr® r annum. —Enquire of We Printer.
Dcc i». §iwjaw6w.
\Vm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
. HJGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A Well Selt He J A ssoRTMtxT of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, whole&le and retail, an the very
low eft terms ;
Amongji which are
Some elegant 4-4 Snd 7-8 Chintzes and Cettoas, new
patterns
Ditto Fnrniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
' Tamboured, Boole, and Jaconet MiHlins
* Ditto in Gold and Silver
" Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hqfiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality. alTWrtcd
t lri(h Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
Marseilles and Cotton Counterpanes
- Rose Blankets afTortedf—&c. &c.
Oiftober 86.
SWAN N'S
; d Riding Sthool, Horfc Academy Isf Infirmary.
\ Adjoining the Pablie Square, Market Stieet.
t T. SWANN
ie RETURNS his finccre thanks tothofe gentlemen by when*
:t % he has been employed, during his residence in this City, and
id Hatters himfelf that the fnccefs of Wis efforts, in the numerous,
obstinate 3nd dangerous diseases in Horses, in which he hat
been confultcd, together with his moderate charges, will se
cure their future favors and rec«mmendatton.
He now begs leave to inform them and the public at large
that his spacious and commodious premises, ere&ed for the
purposes above dcfcribed are open for the reception of pupil*
of either sex, who wish to beinftru&ed in the Art of Hiding*
and the right method of governing their horses, so as to ride
. in them with ease, elegance, and fafety—their horses will be
l{ " carefully and expeditioufly broke, for every purpose, and
vc made obedient to the will oi the riders ; the natural power*
which arc (hut up in them, will be unfolded by art, calling
forth uniformity of motion, and giving to that noble animal
all thole beauties of a&ion which providence has so bountl*
fully bellowed on them.
3r Also, at his hospital, every diformer to which the horse ii
it- liable will be treated according to the rules of art, confirmed
lie by long and repeated experience.
x- The utility of the above institution has never been qneftion*
0 f ed, that it has long been wanted in this city> gentleman'*
stud willmanifeft, and T. Swann as the ftrtk eftablifher of
the veterenary art, solicits aed relies upon the fuppoitef that
)ld P u^^c ( w bieh he is ever anxious in serving) to enable him to
bring it to perfection. The idea of a fubfeription for that
— purpose has beeu hinted by several gentleman, who wi(h t*
promote the inftitution —the amount of each fubfeription to
be returned by services in any of the'departments he profefles,
agreeable to the rate of charges stated in his hand bill. Such
ds, fubfeription i*now open, and the fignaturesof manyrefpefl*
:he able gentlemen already, obtained. He therefore informs hit
ig- friends and such Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
li- the honor of being known, that he ftiall in a few day* tak«
the liberty of waiting upon them and folicking their support
i a and prott&ion.
N B. Horses are properly prepared for those Ladies and
ec« gentlemen who wish to be inftru6ted«
ted Nov. 5. tth&f.
itif -—— ""
WANTED,
a « As Cook, in a private family,
A YOUNG WOMAN who can produce good re
commendations of an unexceptionable «h»ra<3er. En
quire of the Printer. -
November 17. $tfNew Theatre.
THIS EVENING, December it,
Will be presented,
A COMEDY, called
The Road to Ruin.
Dornton, Mr. Warren
Harry Dornton, Mr. Cooper.
Sulky, Mr. L'EJlrangt
Silky, Mr. Francis
Goldfinch, Mr. Harwted
Milford, Mr. Fox
Smith, Mr. Barley, jun.
Tradesmen, Mitchell, Morgan, See.
Sheriffs Officer, Mr. IVarrell
Jacob, Mr. Blijfett
Marker, Mr. Worrell, jnn.
Postillion, Mafler IVarrell
Mrs. Warren, firft titne, Mrs. Qldmixon
Sophia, Mrs. Merry
Jenny, Mr,. Francii
Mrs. Ledger, Mrs. Doflor
To which will be added, «
A FARCE, called
The Iriftiman in London.
Captain Seymour. Mr. Fox
Mr. Frost, Mr. Francii.
Mr. Callooney, ' Mr. Darley, jun.
MurtOch Delar.y, (with t Ceng in character)
Mr. H r arren
Edward, Mr. Harnvood
Cymon, Mr. Blijfett
I.cuifa, Mrs. Harvey
Carolint, Miss UEJlrange
Cubba, Mrs. Francis
On FRIDAY the Tragedy of
The Orphan ;
* Or, The Unhappy Marriage.
With a New Ballet, composed by Mr Bjrrn, called
THE B O ITQJJ E T :
In which will be introduced, th» favor A
TAMBOURINE DANCE.
. & The French company of Comedians, having been
JionorecL with confiderabtc applause on their firtl appear
ance, will perform again on Saturday Wxt, and every Sa
turday, until further notice. Particulars will be express
, tdin future Bills.
gjT Box, Offe Dollar twenty-five cents. Pit one Dollar.
And Gallery, half a Hollar.
igT Tickets to be had at H. & P. Rice's Book-store,
No. 50 High-street, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
Places for the I}°*" to be taken at the Office in the.
front of the theatre, from 10 till i o'clock, and from
lo till 4 on the days of performance.
FIVAT RESPUBLICAI
111 ' I r
Pantheon,
AND RICKETTS's AMPHITHE ATR.E.
Corner of Chefnut and Sixth-ftreeti.
For Equsstrian and Stags Performances.
THIS EVENING, Wednesday, Dec. 21.
"Will be presented the following entertainment*, viz.
HORSEMANSHIP,
by the Equestrian troop.
A Comedy, in two A&s, called,
The Lying Valet.
(the Lying Valet) Mr. Chambers
Gayjefs, Mr. Jones
Jtiftice Guttle, Mr. Dnrang
Bea* T rippet, Mr. Tompkins
Diek, Mr. Sully
MelifTa, Miss Robinson
Mis. Gadabout, Mrs. Durang
Mrs. Trippct, Mrs. Tompkins
Kitty Pry, Mrs. Chambers
A COMIC DANCE, called
The Dwarff; or,
The Warsaw Wonder.
A §ong ky Miss Robinson.
In the course of the evening, a Duet by Mr.
•nd Mrs. Chambers.
The whole to conclude with the Grand Pantomine of
Don Juan ; or,
The Libertine Dejiroyed.
This Day is Pnblifhed,
Porcupine's
POLITICAL CENSOR,
For NOVEMBER, 179 6.
CONTAINING
OBSERVATIONS
On the Insolent and Seditious Notes,
(Attacking the ftvereignty and independence of the
United States J
Communicated to the People, by the late French
roinifter, ADET.
I>ecember »i. * IW
CAUTION.
WHEREAS very large and heavy dsbti are justly
dbc and owing from theft s. Blair M'denachan and
Patrick Moare, of the chy of Philadelphti, merchants,
trading un-ler the firm of Blair M'denachan and P.
Moore, and from Blair M'Clenachan in his separate
capacity; to which, by the laws of the.land, all the
joint as well as separate property of the said Gen'le-'
men, is, and ought to be, liable. And whereas
it is clearly and fatisfa&orily ascertained, that mr.
Blair M'denachan, of the said firm, has conveyed
away to mr. John H. Hujlon, his foil-in law, to his
daughter, miss M'denachan, and to his son, George
M'denachan, several large and valuable real eftatcs,
as well as confidrrable personal property, in the city
and county of Philadelphia, in the county of Lancas
ter, in the county of New-Castle on Delaware, and
elsewhere, with a view, as it is apprehended, to de
feat the Creditors in the recovery of their juA debts.—
This is, therefore, to forewarn all persons whomso
ever, againflthe purchase from the said grantees, or
cither of them, of any portion of the said l eal or per
sonal property, as the most vigorous measures will
wit!#'it delay be taken to render the fame liable to
thejvft demands of" the Credirors.
By order of the Creditors.
Thomas Fitzjfmons,
Philip Nick/in, I
Jfaac Vharton, r Committee.
Wiiliam M'Murtrie, 1
Samuel IV. Fi/her, J
Philadelphia, December jjth, 1796. scth.J
CONGRESS or the UNITED STATES.
HOUSE ©» REPRESENTATIVES*
W-cdnefday, December 14.
Continuation of the delate on the ad'dreft in anftacr
to the President's fpceeh.
Thursday, December ly
Mr. Amrt said if any man were to call himfelf
more free and enlightened than bit fellows, it would
be considered at arrogant felf-praife. His very de
claration would prove that he wasted sense as well
as modesty, but a nation might be called so, by a
citizen of that nation, without impropriety; be
cause, in doing so, he betiows no pvaife of superi
ority on himfelf, he may be in fail and may be sen
sible that he is less enlightened than the wife of o
ther nations. This fort of national eulogium may,
no dotibf, be foftered by vanity and grounded in
mistake, it is sometimes jyft, it is ccrtainly com
mon and not always either ridiculous or offenfive.
It did not fay that France or England had not
been remarkable for enlightened men ; their literati
are more numerous and diftingu'ifhed than our own.
The chara&er with refpeft to this country, he said
was ftri&ly true. Our counttymen, almost uni
versally, possess some property and some portion of
learning, two diftin&ions so remarkably in their
favor as to vindicate the expreflion obje£led to.
But go through France, Germany, and most coun
tries ef Euiope, and it wiiuld befpundthat out of
50 millions of people not more then two or three
had any pretentions to knowledge, the reft being
comparatively with Americans ignorant. In France,
which contain# 25 milliors of people, only one was
calculated to be in any refpeft enlightened, and
perhaps under tne old system, there was not a great
er proportion possessed of property; whilst in A
merica, out of four millions of people, scarce any
part of them could be elaffed upon the fame ground
with the rabble of Europe. That class called vul
gar, canaille, rabble so numerous there does not exist
here as a clafi though our towns havu many indi
viduals of it. Look at the Lazaroni of Naples
there are 20,000 or more houseless people, wretch
ed and in want ! He # asked whether, where men
wanted every thing, and were rn the proportion of
29 to J, it was possible rhat they could trusted
with power. Wanting wisdom and morals how
would they use it ; it was therefore that the iron
hand of defpntifm was called in by the few who
had any thing, to preserve any kind of controul
1 o»er the many. This evil, as it truly was, and
which he did not propose to commend, rendered
true liberty hopeless. . In America out ot four
millions of people the proportion which cannot
read and write and who, having nothing, are inte
rested in plur.dtr and cortfufion and disposed for
both, is small. in the fouthcrn states he knew there
were people well informed, he disclaimed all design
of invidious comparison ; the members from the
fou:h would be more capable of doing justice to
their constituents; but, in the cartei n dates, he
was more particularly convetfant, and the
people in them could generally read and write, and
were well informed as to public affairs. In" such a
country liberty is like to be permanent. It is pof
fible to plant it in such a foil and reasonable to hope
that it will take root and flourifh long as we fee it.
But can liberty, fueh as we understand and enjoy,
exist in societies where ike few only have property
and the many are both igaorant and licentious.
Wat there any impropriety, then, io faying what
was a fadt I At it rcfpe&s government, the decla
ration is ufeful. It is refpe&fu! to the people to
speak of them with the justice due to them, as e
minently formed for liberty, and worthy of it.
The gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Giles) on a
former occasion had said he adored the people ; but
now when there was a wish to pionounce thf;.attri
butes of his divinity, he was not found snore fer.
vent in his adoration than many who had made no
such profeflioD. If they are free and enlightened,
let us fay so—is they are not, he should no longer
adore them ; they would not certainly be worthy
of honors quite divine. Mr. Ames said they ought
not only to fa} this because it was true, but because
their faying so would have the effect to produce
that felf-refpeft which was the bed guard of liber
ty, and most conducive to the happinefsftf society.
It was ufeful to /hew where our hopes and the trne
fafety of our freedom arerepofed. It cheriftied in
return from the citizens a just confidence, a spirit
of patiiotifra unmixed with foreign alloy, and the
courage to defend aconftitution that a people real
ly enlightened knows to be worthy of its effortt.
If the words were e'bjeftionable, it would be ea
sy to alter them to avoid the objection without im
pairing eflcntially their force. A gentleman nfar
him,had funnelled the propriety of faying we were
" among the freed and most enlightened." He
had no objedtion to the alteration, though he saw
no reason fer altering the phraseology. The citi
zens of a free government ought, he said; to be
lieve they were the most free and enlightened, be
cause, having the power of making' the govern
ment what tln-y plc-afe, if it were not the belt, ft
would be their own fault fer not making it so.
He believed the house would not be surprised, if
he took notice of what had been said in illulion to
him in the course of the debate—allusions with
which he could not be offended, bccanfc they were
urged with so many expreflions of the most flatter
ing civility. But every gentleman would believe
those things were not applicable to him, as their
recolle&ions would not fail to prove. What had
been his language with refpeft to Great-Britain ?
Did he fay we were to submit ? Did he fay we
were not 10 defend onr country ? .Was he then a
fraid as they were now, that foft words would not
be foft enough ? No ; such language came not
from him. Do nothing to irritate ; wage no war ;
no hostility. Such he called sequestration and o
thei a&s of that nature. We were, h« faid,about
to make war on British property, and that such a
war would have been considered as an open war.
He therefore wished to shut ourselves up in our (hell
like a tortoise. But, at the fame time, he recom
mended troops to be raised, ships to be built, taxes
to be laid, sad a spirited claim «f justice to be
urged. The £cntletr?n who wiflieJ at ihat timS
particularly to preserve peace, did not wilh to h»ld
eut the olive branch alone, by leaving the country
defencel'efj. This many their oppoferf abfo
iutely did. These, he said, were their reasons, and
they had been effectual. He wauld net go into an
examination of the fubje£t now. It was their wilh
to urge every exertion of the country, to have cal
led forth the last dollar and the lad man in defence
of the country in cafe of necessity. Did this look
as if they-wifhed to truckle te Great-Britain ? Ma
ny of their *>ppofers, so Kealous then for retalia
tion and reprisal, were not for any thing else—
neither troops, (hips, taxes nor treaty. This the
yeas and nays op the journal will eftab'lifh. Will
the oppofer3 (hew half the spirit now that we felt
and expressed at that day ?
How happened it t he asked, .that gentlemen
were so angry beea'ife they had then heard the lan
guage of pence, and tow because the fame lan
gtwge was held ? Not one of us desire hostility.
Was it becaufc Great-Britain was then the ebjedt
and France now. Wrongs from the former cannot
berefented enough, and wrongs and insult too from
the latter require words of more ardor than a lo
ver's. No man Jclt more for the wrongs of Ame
rica than he did. But, was it not the part of dig
nity and prudence to endeavour to obtain restituti
on for those wrongs rather than take up arms. But
was it suited to national dignity to make use of the
language that had been uled on that occafmn by
many of his oppofets, he thought both national
and p'erfonal dignity forbade it, he had thought it
equally intemperate and unbecoming.
Did not gentlemen seem to feel more for one in
dividual than foran insult on the nation and
its government. The administration might fuffer
contumely and abuse, and the country too with
out producing any emotions in the breads of gen
tlemen ; their feelings Teemed to take quite ano
ther dire&ion ; if# British minißer should outrage
our government as the minifterof France had done,
every one would be for avenging the wrong. Ai d
ha thought it right that they Ihould now declare
their determination «f supporting the executive in
the fuppott of our national honour and dignity, or
let him fee in season that he was to be abandoned.
The gentleman from S. Carolina (Mr. Harper)
had jnftly said, that though we had no navy to flip
port our pretentions, we had yet come off better
lhag Sweden or Denmark—countries which had
beeft produced as patterns of wisdom. Though he
did not suppose the British treaty would be carried
into effedt, so as to fatisfy every person who had
fuffered in his property by the British, yet hetruQ.
ted, tiie event would prove in a degree
fatisfaftory. He wished all other depredation on
our commerce might be in the end as nearly com
pensated.
At the time when government was pursuing her
negociation, we were cmbarraffed with Spain, with
the Indians and with the Western people. On the
f»a our citiiens were fuffering in their property.
The British treaty was therefore made under disad
vantageous circumstances. It was not a little ho
noiabltf to the government, and truth would in time
procure the universal assent to it, that we have saved
our peace, recovered our territory, and made pro
vision for the reparation of the spoliations.
It fcemed as if gentlemen could never fay enough
on the fubjeS of the British treaty aod of Great-
Britain. The bank, treasury, and other topics ef
declamation, which were formerly always tn order,
seem to be almost forgotten. Was this the way,
he aflced, in which they meant to recommend to
the citizens the due refpedl for the adts of a majo
rity of that house and of congress. If they think
this the belt way of answering the endt of govern
ment and of producing confidence and harmony
amongst tho people, they did vtell. The means ap.
pearcd difprogortiened or rather ftfangely oppofiie
to that end. He was of a different opinion. He
thought, and it was with due seriousness of delibe
ration he declared the people were called upon to
chufe between them ; between those who wished to
fuppor; government, and those wlie avowed so tin
feafonffile and so excessive a sensibility to a foreign
intcrert and foreign nation ; between those who con
demned the infuiu offered to the government and
those who seemed to approve them ; those who
thought the experiment of oar government had
succeeded aad thole who were bound in consisten
cy with their own assertions to fay it was to be n
bandoned with difgult and in despair. He was of
opinion they could not go on as tbey were ; and
the people could remove the evil by chufing ;hofc
who would he better agreed—the people free
and enlightened, would have no difficulty in chu
fing between them. Both fottsof men ought not
to be there; rither those who like the government
are in the right or those who .lifpute, revile and des
pise it. The people would he joubted not, judge
tight. He wished the appeal to be raada without
delay, and so solemnly at to make it effedhisil.
Mr. Christie said he was not afraid of offending
any nation ; but he did not think we were the molt
enlightened, and theiefore he was unwilling to fay
so. If -the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Parker)
would permit him to amend his motion, he would
move to have inserted after the word " freed'' and
" among the most enlightened.'' \
Mr. Parker cojifented.
Mr. Swanwitk thought- the amendment had
great advantages ; but he thought the word
" among" should come before, instead of after
" freed" because, notwithstanding all that had pas-
I kd, rxtthing would tend more to preserve the peace
of the country, than the treating of others with
refpeft.
Mr. Christie objefled to Mr. Swanwick's prepo
fitioH, because he believed we were the freed, but
not the most enlightened nation.
Mr. Coit thought the present was an idle difputc
about words ; and that instead -of a feflion of thiee
months, they should require sne of twelve to do
the necefTary business, if they proceeded in this
manner. He wiihed the proposed alteration might
take place, amongst the freeft, &c.
Mr. Oilet could not help observing that the gentle
man from,s. Carolina ( Mr. Smith)* had brought for
ward an example from the pradice of the French,
which he seemed to expedl to have great force, as if a
precedent from that country was t6 have influence
here> If the gentleman thought it was to have any
tffv 1 * K'f ipin'oti', fie tell Jiim ni wr»
ttaftifcen. He ihould think for himi 't, and neither
be guided by the French government, or any man in
France. Indead the vaunting itileof the French wis
one of thole things which he liketi the least iu that
country. The gentleman from Maflachnfetts ( Mr.
Ames) had insinuated that he ( Mjr.Ciles) no lander
adored the peeple, because lie declined to call them
the freeft and most enlightened. He would tell that
gentleman that he thought as highly ot tne people as
he ever did ; and that he waspleafed with the pictur;
which Mr. Ames had drawn between the lower elide*
of Europe and those of this country ; but tho' he tho't
highly of their enlightened state he did not think it
necessary to tell the world we were the freeft and me£
enlightened. Mr. Giles did not think the diftin&iou
which Mr. Ames had drawn between a nation calling:
itlelf the most free and enlighened, and an individual
calling hmfelf so, was well supported. However if
the house were determined to use.the exprefißbn, he
should fay no more on the fubjedl.
The gentleman from Maflachufetts ( Mr. Ames)
had spoken of individuals being opposed to govern
ment. He wifiied to have this matter rightly under
stood. If Ae gentleman meant by government all the
branches as organized by the conftituion he would
fare him he wasafirm friend to it; but if he callt<i
the Executive alone, the government, in diftiniftian
from the other branches, he might think it neceiTiry
to be some times oppefed to that ; for though he be
lieved this to be a part of the government, he could
never consent to have it called the government.
Mr. Giles diftiked extremely, any intimate connec
tion betwixt this country and Great Britiin, notwith
standing pecuniary advantages might arise from futh
a connexion ; for there was something in the connee
tion it felt, tint would outweigh all -partial advantage#
which could be derived from it. What, said Mr.
Giles, is our prcfent fitnation ? The President's com
munication was far from agreeable, and some mtm
bers of that house had received information from Pal
is which was still more alarming. France he said, ws»
the most powerful enemy we could "ontend with, at the
only one that could affect* otir territory. She had it
also in her power effeflually to deftroy,our commerce.
Ought we, then, he asked, to felicitate' aurl'elres upon
this situation of things ? The gentleman ( Mr. Ames)
had yesterday said, we were 011 the eve of a war, and
called upon them to cotne forward, and to fay what
they would do. If these were the eff.-ils of a wife and
firm negociation with Great Britain, he lamented
them, at most calamitous.
Mr. Giles concluded with obftrvii.; that hefelt the
fame adoration for the voice of the people that he had
always done; and he trufled no raan could chi.-gr
him with having acted contrary to that sentiment, or
with even making a declaration which did not arise
from feeling or conviction. He should r.at cuke tnj
farther attempt to «lt;r the address. When it came
into the house, he doubted not gentlemen would have
an opportunity of (hewing their difapprobatioti by vot
ing against different parts, or against the addret* is
toto. He (hould vote against the thin altogether.''
Mr. Dayton ( the Speaker) said that some 'of the
observations which lud been brought into the prefVnt
debate were of too delicate a nature to be commtrmi
upon or even repeated, h: should not therefore folldw
who spoke last in his enquiry how far
this country wasexpe<9ed to be annoyed by France in
the poflfible, though happily not probable, event of a
rupture with that country.
As to the word* "freed and most enlightened"
which were more immediately the fubjed* of difcut
(ion, he did nut object againijl them od the groin,J
of fact, but he eonfidered the exprcflton as revolving
itfelf into a question of decorum and deliescy, the
rules ms which appeared to him to be violated, in
their ascribing to themselves such n superlative pre
ference (however true) in a companion with every
other people. The amendment of the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. Christie) very much foftened
the termi and rendered them m»re palatable.
Some remark* had fallen trim the gentleman
from Maflachufetts (Mr. Ames) which were irre
lative to the fubjedt, And Mr. Dayton could have
wished had been therefete omitted. Had he con.
tented himfelf with challenging any member to point
out a single mllaiice ofinconfiftency in him and pur
sued the fuhjeft no farther Mr. D. said that hi*
r?fpe£*and friend/hip for the gentleman from Maf
fachnfetts would nave indueed hjm to be silent, but
when that gentleman had wantonly gone out of hi»
way to bring into view and arraign the policy of
tertain energetic measures which were at a former
session contemplated to coonterjftthcencroachment»
of Great-Britain, he felt himfelf called upon to take
some no.tice of them. Those measures, and seques
tration in particular had" been on a former occasi
on aficrted, and now again unneceflarily repeated,
to have been intended as acts of hostility. Is it
then (enquired Mr. D.) an aft of hostility Amply
to lequefter, or in wotda to attach and to
arrell and detain in thie country the property of
the Brjjilh nation as a pledge orfeeurity for the in
demnification ps the citizens of the United State*
against the depredations of that nation, and is it no
adt of hostility against this couptry to have their
property not merely frqueftered, but condemned,
conMfqated and wafted by the cruizers, fubjedts, go
, vernment and courts of that nation. ..Such, he wa*
lorry to fay, had formerly been the reasoning and as->
fertion of the gentleman from Maflachufetts. The
United States must not sequester, for it was wa. t
but the plunder and confifcation of the property of
our citizen, was not to be termed hostility, but «ai
only ground for negociation. If , t \we ppflible
for tint gentleman to reconcile that ftWking i»eon
nlrcncy, he mtght then free himfelf from the impu
tatiou. x hat he himfelf had advocated all the en
ergetic measures which were proposed on a former
Critical occasion in that house, was, Mr. Dayton
said h,, r e and his boa ft. He then thought,
and he (hU thought, that if they had been carried
into effed., the lituatiou of this country both as it
re, P cfted the indemnification of our fellow.citizena
who had been plun&red, ,nd our commercial and
political connedhon with Great-Bntain would be
tar more favorable than it could be said to be at that
moment.
£ Debate to be continued. J
Tuesday, December 20.
A letter was received'from the secretary of state.
ineiofing the annual report of the director of the
m,:it. flu, report was very long, and propefed
means of tendering the eftablifWnt lefg expei,five
and more produdtive, one of the principal of which
was that the depofitore of bullion (hould not have
the, lame advantages as heretofore, but be char?ed
with deficiencies on account of the inferior qualify
o. theiT.+iulhoßy and either ejtpences attendiie- rh»
coining of As a neeeffity for «hi» regulation^tbt director mentions an inftanec, Ip which out of
56,000 ounces of silver nearly 24,000
ounces were alloy, the coining of the whole cost
government jool. and yet the depositor receiv
ed the difference in coin withoot charge !
This report was referred to a fel ■ft committee of
ihree members and ordered to be printed.
Mr. D. Foster, by direction of the committee
of claims moved to have that committee discharg
ed from the further eonfideration of the petition of
William Howe, a Nova-Scotia refugee, and to
have a committee appointed on thai fubjeft.—A
greed.
Mr. Andrew Jackson presented t!y petition of
James Orr of the (late of Teaeffee, praying for
restitution for the loss of five horses which the Che
rokee Indians had taken from him. Referred to
the committee of claims.
Mr. S. Lyman prefemed the petition of Gilbert'
Deneb, praying for relief on account of service
performed during the war. Referred to the com
mittee of claims.
Mr. Dearborn said he thought there were a num
ber of claims called liquidated claims which ought
not to be affected by the aft of limitation. He
begged leave therefore to propose a resolution tot
the house on that fubjeft. It was to the following
effect :
" ltefolved that 0 ttmmittei be appointed to en
quire into and report on the expediency or inexpe
diency of designating certain claims against the li
nked States to be excepted from the power of the
»ft of limitation."
Mr. W. Smith thought as business refpefting
claims was always referred to the committee of
claims this enquiry alio might beentrufted to them.
He ihould move, therefore, to amend the refoluti.
on by striking out the words, « a nomnittee to be
appointed," and add in their place " the commit
tee of claims be inftrufted."
Mr. Dearborn said he had no objection to the
enquiry being submitted to the committee of claims.
His aim would be anfweredif the enquiry was only
made. Agreed.
The order of the day was called for on the mili
tia bill, when
Mr. Williams rose and spoke at considerable
length against the present fyttem and t also against
the bill before them, and waa decidedly in favour of
striking out the firft feflion. His observations, in
which he recommends a new military fyftcm, will
be given to-morrow.
The queflion was put for striking out the firft
clause, and carried, there being 49 votes in favour
of it.
Mr. W. Smith moved that the committee rife,
report progress, and alk leave to fit again ; which
lie hoped would be denied ihem, in order that the
bill might be re committed to a felefil committee.
Mr. W. Lyman wished before the committee
rose, that what related to exemptions might be de-_
tided upon.
Mr. Hartley was in favour of the committee's
rising, that the bill might be re committed before
it was farther discussed. The plan which had been
proposed by the gentleman from New-York had
some weight with him, and he had no doubt it
would be attended to in a feleft committee.
Mr. Dearborn said his colleague ( Mr. W. Ly
»«n) seemed to think it would be Iseft to deter
mine now on the fubjeft of exemptions. He be
lieved there Were few gentlemen who did not con
cur on that head. A great complaint against the
present system was, that the burden of military ser
vice fell only upon \few. He doubted not the bill
would be rectified in this refpeft in the feleft com
mittee ; but he was not tenacious of his opinion,
and had no particular objection to its being done
then. —
Mr. Kitahell wiihed the bill to be re-commit
ted before any further steps were taken.
The committee rose and reported, and on leave
being asked to fit again, leave was refufed.
Mr. W. Smith moved that the bill be recommit
ted to a feleft committee.
Sixteen, nine and five members were mentioned
for a committee. The sense of the house was firft
taken upon the gteateft number and loft by a ma
jority of one 5 it was then taken en niue aad. tarri-
Mr. Coit wiflied to call the the attention of tne
house to a fubieft which he thought of fom# im
portance ; it was the balances due from feversl
dates ot the union to the United States. Three
years, he said, had elapsed since a report was made
•n that fubjtft. He did not know what order
was proper to be taken with that business Some
thing however ought to he dona. He thought
the firft ftcp fnonld be to ask the debtor staPes for
payment. He wished therefote to submit to the
>house the following resolution, which he wilhed to
lie on the table till to morrow.
" Resolved that the' committee of ways and
means be directed to report whether any, and if
any what measures should be taken relative to the
balances which by report of the committee appoint,
ed to fettle the accounts, were found due from dif
ferent Hates in the union"
' Mr. Ln'iujrft o " fa'd two clauses had been omit
ted by some inadverier.cy in the bill for the relief
and protection of American feamtn. They were
the clauses refpefting certificates on which the two
houses had differed in opinion. At the clauses
werej essential, the Frefident had supplied them.
With a view of removing this difficulty, and with
'»view of bringing the fubjeft again before the
house, he moved a resolution to the following ef
feft. . 5
" Resolved that a committee be appointed to en
quire into the alterai ions of the aft for relief and
protection of Ameriean seamen, and to report
what amendments are necessary to be made there
to." .
A committee of three members was appointed.
Mr. Blount said that Congress passed a resolu
tion on the t6th September 1796, granting ceitain
bounties and grants of land to the reprefentativcs of
officers and soldiers who were (lain in battle, which
be thought equally applied to those who died in
service. He said both cases had foimerly been
onfidered as included, but latterly the secretary at
war hadmaiea diftinftion. He should propose a
resolution to the haufe, in order t» have • declara
tion of their sense upon It. The refutation was to
the following-affecj.
?' Itefolvcd that a qpmroittee be appointed to
eaquire into, andtcport their opinion, on the equi
ty and expediency of extending to the representa
tives of officers and soldiers who died in the service,
the advantages allowed hy the resolution of Con
gress, Sept. 16,1776, to representatives of those
officers and soldiers slain by tae enemy." Ordered
to lie on the table* Adjourned.
Philadelphia,•
WEDNESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER n, 1796.
Rbiurn or Cor Ei ! g 1 =<3
FOR ?? •! I s ; > §
PRESIDENT < f -! I, f>
AND -i i V" \ . S' ■*(
VICE-PftESfDENT s - d
Ncw-Hampflure, 6| 6 1 2
Maflachufetts, K>;'J 1
NHode-Ifland, 4! 4
Connecticut, 9I 4 5
Vermont, 4! 4
New-York, u 11
New-Jerfejr, , 7I 7
Pennsylvania, ij *141$,
Delaware, 3 I
Maryland, f44 3! 1
Virgiaii, 1 no nj 31
Kentucky,
T'nnefiee,
North-Carolina, 1 11 1 6 1
South-Carolina, I
Georgia, |
Total, 71 5749 13 i^ 1 a 5 ; 1 2 5
In North-Carolina, on« vots was given tor Charles
Pinckncy, and three for Judge Iredell.
Maeriid, on Thursday evening (aft, by the Rev.
Mr. Turner, Mr. Hsnry Rsynolßs te Mili Peggy
N*gle.
*•* "Two words of an European"shall appear to
morrow.
In consequence of three or four attempts on dif
ferent nights, to set fire to different parti of this
city, by some infernal incendiary, or incendiaries,
Meetings of the citizens are called at 1 lie Mer
chants' Coffee-houfe, and at the Commissioners'
Hall, in Southwarky to devise some efFediual mea
sures of security from such atrocious attempts.
The Hon. Jonathan Freeman, Efq is eledted
by the people the 4th Representative in Congress
for the State of New Hampfliire.
Daoie! Dtinfcoinb, Esq. is appionted Clerk of
the Federal Court for the Diftrift of New-York,
vice Hon. Judge Troup.
0" A special meeting of the American Philosophi
cal Society will b« held at their Hall this evening at
6 o'clock.
The ntov, December 10. j
The American citizens have often been aftonilh'd
at the f»rprizing Equeflrian abilities of the celebra
ted Rickstts. We think the following account
of his pedeftrial performance, equals, if not furpaf
ies any of his feats of Hoifemmfhip. Oil Saturday
lad he ran, on foot, from Princeton, to Shabakunk
bridge (two miles and a halt from this city) in 52
minutes, which is nine miles and a half, and at the
rate of a mile every five minutes and a half. Mr.
Ricketts, some months since, went asgreatadif
tance in near as fhortatime, which by some was
thought incredible—to fatisfy and convince such,
'he undertook thetafk again on S>«urday, in com
pany with theNew-Yerk public llage, from New-
York to Philadelphia—the passengers in which tef
tify tu the truth of this performance.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Our American Frenchmen fiy, the victorious re
public of France is irrefiftablc ; America is at her feet,
and cannot defend herfelf. If this is (which God be
thanked it is not) the deplorable and terrible condi
tion that the vineries of the IVoiich have brought the
United States into, may one make bold to «ik the ci
tizen democrats where was the good ftnfe and patri
otism of that p.>rty in rejoicing at the fucetffes which
have brought this about! Are they such aliens, or
rather traitors, in their hearts, as to rejoice full when
frefh facceffes are announced I
" The French have no commerce," fay our states
men, >vho claim to be so much wisir than th« Pre
fident —" If we go to war with that republic there
will be notking for our privateers to take " Excellent
wifdont! X*' these wisest of counlellors but lately
advised our merchants anil farmers to depend Wholly
on the Freucb trade and manufactures ! Mark the
cooCftency of this language.
GRATITUDE.
It is with this virtue as with raoft others, those
who have it molt in their months have it lead in their
hearts.
Gratitude 11 The French, and the presses devoted
to them, have mad* a constant din about this sacred
debt. When our peace, our government, and our
independence,' were nearly facrifked, these deceivers
demanded the facrifice as a token that the fin of in
gratitude (hould not lie at the door of our nation.
To whom is this obligation due? Not to Wlsl
ington, you tell us, bccauf: he did no more than his
duty, and it would be dangerous to be grateful ts
him.
Is it due to the King of France, the very man who
did the favor—the man to whom we raised flatues and
sung anthems ? O no, wi owe nothing to a King 1
and if we did, the guillotine has paid off the score.
Shall we thank the late Queen I O no, 'tis just as
bad as to thank a King. It is true {be was the firft
mover in the whole affair * but no matter; {he is as
cold in her grave as the femimeut of gratitude in
Jacobin hearts. ( <
Shall we thank the La Fayettes, the Cuflinee, the
LaUzuns, and the troops of heroes who fought for us ?
No, ne, no: the firft is baniihed i moll of the others
have had their throats cut. •
Te whom then are we »o owe fealty and homage ?
To those who cuy heir throats ? Why ? Because they
helped our revolution? No, thtj did not help it.—
Because they are good and benevolent ts all men?
Read their history for the answer. IJecaufe they are
so very just, friendly and refpeftful, to the free go
vtrnment which is 'lie i-i|vc and rich fruit of our inde
pendence ? No such thing.
What then it the blS* of the Jjcobia claith of gra
titude > Precisely this: The French emiflaries will
help the Jacobins to pull down our government. They
i lute as we hate ; and this sympathy »f pafiions, and
I community of interests, renders it ufeful to dupe as
nuny as we can. The song of gratitude his been a
fyrea-fong which in 1793 almost lulled aileephtiic true
spirit of independence.
SENATE of PENNSYLVANIA,
December »i, 1796.
On motion of Mr. Barton, seconded by Mr D. Wh*-
len ; the fallowing Resolutions were adopted and fer.t
to the -Aflembly for concurrence :
Whereas the wife, firm and patriotic administration
of George Wafiington, Piefid«nt of the United
states, has finally conduced to the prosperity and bap
pinefs which the people of America enjoy, and the best j
reward we can bestow on him, is the expression of
our gratitude and approbation. Therefore,
Rei'olved unanimonfly,
That a committee be appointed to prepare and re
port to this house, an adcirefs to the President of the
United States, e\pre/five of our fentimentj with regard
to his past conduit, and of the sensations of regret | I
with which we contemplate his intended retirement j I
from office. |
Whereas the late address of the President to tha peo- j
pie of the United States, is in the opiaien of this Le- (
giflatare, an meflimabk legacy, replete with featirnents 1
highly important to the tnterefls of our country, jnd
deserving the most' serious attention of freemen—l '
Therefore, I
Resolved, That the said address be printed and pub- I
lilhed with the laws us the present fefiion, I
Ycfterday a Committee of the Senate of this ]
commonwealth waited on the governor, with the <
following answer to his Address: 1
To Tiomat Mifflin, Governor of the Commonwealth
of Ptnnfylvania.
Sir,
The encteafing population of the
with the general prosperity aad happinefn of its ci
tizens, afford a p!eafi»j( evidence of the wisdom of
oar political iifiituuons.
Imp cSVd with a firm convi&ion, that the law*
alone lhould govern, and that by them, the will of
the community (hosld be so prescribed as to
preclude the neceffiry of exercising individual
.'ifcrction, we cannot but be sensible of the propri
ety of an attentive review of our laws rcfpeAing
elections, and (hall be wanting in duty to our con
diments, if we do not use every endeavour to a
mend and render them more dear and explicit.
The eftabliftiment and regulation of a military
force compatible with the freedom, yet adequate to
theexigencts of society, without impefing unneces
sary burthens on its members,, is an ohjedl that
will be the fuh)»£l of our most serious deliberations.
Believing knowledge and virtue the best guar
dians of public and ptivate happiness, and sensible
of the importance of impreffiens received in early
life, we (hall not be deterred by the difficulties of
the undertaking, or by any past mifcarringes, from
attempting to fulfill a conflitutional duty, and
place the attainment of tifeful inlUuftion, within
the reach of our most indigent fellow citizens. <;
VVe finccrcly participate in your regret, th*t in
the public tranfa&ions of the ui.ion, we aie about
to be deprived of the virtues and talents of ou*
beloved Prclident, which have justly inspired ani
[ verfal confidence, am. fervently join in your wifties,
that his remaining days may be happy as his past
life has been glorious.
I n the course of our fefGon, the remaining ob
jects of you addrefiSvill,' neceflarily, eagage a dire
attention, and we (hall rely, with confidence, on
your co-operation in every measure adapted to
the welfare of the community.
By order of the Senate,
ROBERT HARE,
Speaker of the Senate.
BY THIS DAY'S MAILS.
BOSTON, December 14.
INFORMATION.
Prom Lifbtot, via Marbleh'ad.
A vessel arrived at Marblehead on Sunday even
lag, in 42 days from Lisbon. Accounts from her
confirm the intelligence of a public declaration of
war between Spain and England and a letter
from an eminent merchant in Liibon, gives an opi
nion, that a general peace may be expe&ed the
present winter.
No conSrmation of the capture of admiral Jar
vis' squadron, came in her.
NEW YORK, December 19.
We obfsrve the appointment of agents to protest
and procure the releafc of American seamen that
I have been impressed, is likely to produce good ef
! fe&s. One good effect which the declaimets against
our<govertraient did not intend nor expect, is, to
demonstrate by official dacuments, that the Briti(h
vessels imprefi very few American seamen—that
they do not wish to imprcfa any—and that as foen
as the men are proved to be Americana, they are
delivered up without difficulty.
We learn that Mr. Haven is probably re-elected"
a representative in Congress for the diftridl of Long
lfland.
: ; . ; I
ejitTTß er thi united itatss marine list.
I
PHILADELPHIA, December »t.
Captain Morse on his passage home, from Aux-
Cayes, on the Coait of Hifpaniola, fell in with a
British fleet of 11 fail of the line—bound to wind
ward.
ARRIVED. Days
Brig Fame, Churnfide, Port-au-Prince 40
Betsey, White, Isle of France 111
Scht. Sea Flower, Langfotd, Portsmouth n. h. 13
Harriet, Parker, Charleston lo
Heleno Plumftead, Green, Port-au-prince 14
Daphne, Merfe, Aux-Cayes 38
Sloop Sally, Watts, Port-au-Prince 40
Sapply Stubbs, L'Aoceveau 45
Capt. White >|| the brig Betsey, failed from the
Isle of France, August 29— and left there the fol
lowing vessels.
Ship Northern Liberties, Geddes, Philadelphia,
Ship Ganges, Elkins, Boftondo.
- ... Ketch, Br*ther»|Of Salcta, do.
S<4ioon?r Sally, Tln'ftle, Beverly, <?«.
Skip Initoflan, Lewis, Philadelphia—deftlnatU
on unknown.
Ship Five Brothers, Brown, Boston, do.
Ship Kitty, M'Pherfon, Philadelphia y— to fail
in 30 days.
Ship Raring Beach, Philadelphia—to fail in IJ
days for Hamburgh.
| Ship Grand Turk, Mallaby, N«rw-York—to fail
in 30 days.
Ship Anna Catharine, do.—arrived from Bor
deaux.
Ship Martha, Maddock, Bofton—deftiaation un
known.
Ship Nancy, Gardner, do.—for the Cape Good-
Hope.
Ship Eliza, do.—Seized, Cargo a
prize.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE caution introduced into the public prints,
warning all pcrfons against purchasing from the
grantees of Blair M'Clenachan, any portion of the
large, real and personal eftatesJic conreyed away to
his fon-in law and to his children was the result of
a deliberation had upan thefubjeft by a general and
numerous meeting of the creditors as well of Blair
M'Clenachan and P. Moore as of Blair M'Clena
chan individually. It was do more than an execu
tion of that trull confided in the fubferibtrs by ,
those creditors: a step which it would have been a
breach of duty and honor in them to have oraitter?.
The very fiatement of the fact therefore must dis
pel the imputation that it was either " precipitate
or vindidive.'' It originated in a desire to feeurC
the property of the debtor as a ftind tor the pay
ment of his just debts. It was fanftioned by the
advice of council as a meafurc neeejfary to the fafety
of the creditors. If the advertisement has been
injuria** to Mr. M'Clenachan he owes that injury
to his own unjnftifiable conduct, not to the fub
fciibers who have merely publifhsd the truth i*
terms as mild as the fad would admit, and who
mean to investigate in a high court of jufticc the
validity of those purchasers of whieb Mr. M'Cle
nachan so confidently fpeaki.
The subscribers therefore are bound by a sense
of duty to the creditors in general to repeat their
camion againU purthafug of those grantees or
either of them, and to extend the terms of u to a
purchase from any other persons (if such there be}
to whom Mr. M'Clenachan may have made similar
conveyances.
(Signed) T. FITZSIMONS,
P. NIC KLIN,
ISAAC WHARTON,
WILLIAM M'MURTRIE,
SAMUEL W. FISHER.
Philad. Dec. 21, 1795.
Just Arrived,
Per fchoor.tr Daphne, Captain Morft, frtm Auk•
Cay ft,
A Cargo of Sugar and Coffee.
Alft, per brig Betsey, Captain White, frtm the IJlt
of France,
7* Hogtheads, 1 puncheon, and aj eanifttri, of
Batavia Sugar
45 Hogfbeads Pepper of Malabar
65,000 lb. Coffee •
4j.0c0 Cotton
4,000 Indigo—*-For Sale by
F. Coppinger,
No. aal, South Front-street
December 11 f
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining;
MR.' FENNELL /
RESPECTFULLY informs the Ladies and Gentlemen
of Philadelphia, and iu vicinity, that an In raduSory
Reading will be delivered at the College-Hall, o* Tnefday
avining neit, at 7 o'clock.—Where, by permission of the
honorable, the Trafteei of the University, the eourfewill
be regularly continued during the winter.
Oecafional admission tickets to be had of Mr. Poulfoa,
Jua.r.t «he Library ; at Mr. M'Elvec's looking-glafi-ftore.
No. 70, South Fourth-street; and at Mr. Carey's, Book
seller, Market-street.
Dec. >i. ___ djt.
OLD THEATRE.
To-Morrow Evening, Tliurfday, December *td, »
Signior FALCONI
Imprefled with the highest sense of the applause
which the Ladies and Gentlemen have afforded his lift
performance, proposes to give another, consisting of a
variety of experiments, never before exhibited, and
fliew his gratitude by the greateftfxertions.
He has not thought it necessary to enumerate the va
rious obje&s with which he means fc entertain the
company, as he does not wish to anticipate the pleasure
and furpriee h« flatters himfelf to afford them ; and
which he hopes he has already fuffisiently proveil by
his former exhibitions, presenting always to the fpeda
tors new experiments never announced in the bill.
However; at the request of a party, he will iatroducc
The Mysterious Candle,
Which will bring to light the most abstruse queftioa
that can be proposed—and again the
Battle between the Elephant and the
Ourang Outang.
"With some improvements to render it still pleafinj
—and other new scenery. To conclude with the celebrated
Rope Dancer,
Who will this time fliew hiralelf in a masterly manner.
Just Arrived,
In the (hip Dispatch, Captain Morton, from Havre]
de-Grace, and for fele by
Isaac Snowden, jun. No. 141,
SOUTH SECOND STREET,
An invoice of Gloves of various kinds, Men't
White Silk Hose, Black and White Laces* and a few
1 pieces of Black Silk.
December 2. ffxv.
| " For Sale,
Seven elegant Seites for Buildings,
Opposite the State-House"? Garden and Congrefi-
Hall; each Lot being 25 feet front on Sixth-street,
and 120 feet deep to a 14 'eet Court, agreeable to a
plan which may be seen at the Coffee-Houfe or at the
> office of Abraham Shoemaker, No. 114, So. Fourth
ftreet, where the terms will be made known.
December 16 *603FOR SALE,
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT T2 miles from this City, situate in Abu'gton
Township, Moßtgoniery-Connty \ containing 7°
r.cres, a rcijt (lone houfe,two stories high, 2 rooms on r.
floor,fire places in each, a stone kitchen and stone lprn%
he life, over an excellent fprlng of water, a barn, stable,
f Us, barracks, &c. A large apple orchard, and a variety
of fruit, about 12 acres of good meadow well vratcr
ed, and wood fufficient for fire, and fencing the place.
Poffefiion wJy he had theift of April nest. Property in
this City will be taken in exchange. Enquire it No. 37,
Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, September 13,1796. ttftf
r o BE SOLD,
A LEASE for seven years, from the 2sth March next, in that
capital and beautiful F ARM s calltd
PRO SPECT-HILL,
Situated within one quarter of a mile from the Brandy wine
Mills, and half a mile from the borough of Wilmington.
THE dwelling house is built of stone, two stories high,
gemeelv finifhed, and contains four handsome room? on
a floor, betides an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
cellari. It is generally thought to command (he mod a
greeablc profpe& of the Delaware, from the source of that
liver to the Capes. This profpe& ia greatly embcllifhed by
a full view of a vast body ot meadow, through which the
Chrittiana and Brandywine creeks are seen winding in beau
tiful meanders. Near the house are a Kitchen-, a spacious
{tone flable and hay loft, a barn, a carriage House, mifc
houfe,&e. and a well of as pure water as any on the conti
nent. The garden contains an acre and quarter of land, a
boanding with truit, and particularly with peach trees, of
he very best kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear
ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a young, apple
Orchard begining to bear, and leveral old trees that produce
abundantly, besides cherry and other ornamental trees, in
great numbers. The farm consists of near sixty acres of land,
of good quality, and clear of incumbrances, except taxes,
twenty of which are now in excellent clover and timothy,
and ten more will be ready for lowing next spring. A re
sidence of nearly 8 year! has convinced the fublcriber that
the situation is remarkably healthy. The great post road
from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within seventy
yards of the house. In a word, the beauties and conveni
ence of this situation cannot be enumerated in an advertife
mept, and when examined, will probably command the at
tention of any person who isdefirous of li"ing at one of the
mod elegant country feats on the continent. The pure, bafcr
may enter on the premil s next spring, or perhaps, this fall,
if application be immediately made to Dbttor NICHOL AS
WAY, in Philadelphia, to Do&or WHARTON, on the
premises, or, in his ablenee, to Mr. GEORGE TRUIIT, in
Wilmington.
A quantity of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground, some
Stock, &c. may be bad by the purchaser at the time of sale.
Nov. 7 eodtf
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South Fourth-fireet,
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his
Friends and the Public for thsir liberal encouragement,
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of their favors.
He has on hand an extensive afiortment of the
Mojl Fajhionable GOODS,
And of the best quality, suitable for the season.
At this shop Gentlemen can be furniflied withthe heft
jnaterials, and have them made up in the neatest and most
Fashionable manner, and on the shortest notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
pun&ual attention; to them.
November 10. ws
The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM SALT/MORE.
THE public are refpeftfully inforrted, that
this aeimal is to be seen every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, in Market*
street, No. ie6, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-fUeets.
Admiuance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
<£> At the request of many persons it will be
•xhibited on evenings from five to eight o'clock,
at half a dollar each The room will be well
lighted. November J.",
Treasury of the United States.
OTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
1\ may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
of the Fsnded Debt, or Stock, baring a present inter eft of fix
6tr tenivtn per annum.
i ft, That pursuant to an A A of Congress parted on the
*Bth day of April, 1796, intitled a« ad in addition to an
a&, intituled " An aft making fuither provision for the
support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
public debt,*' the said debt or stock will be reimfeurfcd and
paid in manner following, to wit. " Fir ft, by dividends
" to be made on the last days of March, Jnneand.Scptem
ber for. the present year, and from the year one thousand
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou-
V sand eight hundred & eighteen i<nrlufive,at the rate of
" one and one half per centum updri the original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of
u December for the present year, and from the year one
11 thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
• 4 one thousand eight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at
M the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" ginal capital ;and by a dividend to be made on the last
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
a dred and eighteen, of l'uch sum, as will be then ade*
u quate, according to the contract, for the final redemp
" tioii of the said stock."
ad. All diftin&ion between payments on account of
ntereft and Principal being thus abolished by the eftabiixhg
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abova dc
cribed, it has become necelTary to vary accordingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
realtors will therefore observe that the following form
s eftabiifhedfor all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BV THESE PRESENTS, that
* of
do make, eonfiilute and appoint
of my trite and lawful At
torney, for tnz ,ovifa my name, to receive the dividends which are,
or fiat! be payable according to laiv, on the (hers dcfcribiflg the
flock)pitiung in my name in the books of (here defcribmg* the
books of the Treasury or the Commiffioncr of Loans,
where the £loch is credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) ivith power also an attorney or attor
nies,under him, for that purpose to'male andfub/Jitufe, and'to do all
lawful afis requljitc for effe fling the premises, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that my said Attorney or hisfubftitute % fhall lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof.
In Witness hereof, I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal ths
day of in the vear
Sealed and Delivered
in presence of,
BE IT KNOIVN, that on the day of
efbre me perfmallj came
•within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be
kis ail and d*£d.
In tefiimony whereof I have hereunto set my Han i nnd affix
ed Seal the day and year last afortjaid.
Given under my Philadelphia, thiatwen
tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to directions
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
7 rcafurer of the United States.
J*b W &r tlj
Terriltrj of the Vniistl o talcs, A r . H r . cf the Or/tc*
TukN£*
v. C Foreign attachment. •
Parker, j
Notice is hereby givfcn,
To JOSEPH PARKER, late of Kn)kalk : a in tI.C (now)
coukty of Randolph, in the Territory aforefaid, Mer
chant, that in purfuaoce of the laws of the Territory in
that cafe provided, a foreign attachment hath iflued out of
the county court of common pleas of the said county,
against the lands and teneirents, goods, chattels and ef
fe&s, rights and credits of the said Joseph Parker, at the
suit of George Turn."r, Esquire ; and that unless the said
Joseph Parker appear by himfcif, or Attorney, to give
special bail to such suit, judgment by default will be en
tered against him, at the court to be held in and for the
said county, next, after the expiraiien of twelve mon:hs
from this dote ; and the estate or estates so attached, will
be fold for the -fatisfa of all creditors, who {hall ap
pear to be justly intitled to a demand thereon, and shall
apply for that purpose. Duted at Kaikaflcia, alorcfaid,
this twenty-ninth of March, 1796.
d JOHN RICE JONES, Attorney for Plaintiff.
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Season,
And f*d on clover hay at the Subscribers place, u
rzilei on the Briltol Rnad, where good (tabling ispror
vid«d, and great care will b« taken of th«m
William Bell.
Nov. 23. mwfawmthtf.
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 1, for fal?—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
>he late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and r-rjriftering, for
the City of Wafhiugton, No. 1, and Pattefon Lotteries,
l>oth of which are now drawing—information where
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undr?wn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Motel and Public School' Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wifla to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bflls of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
Also Tickets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Delkrs each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
Win. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, August 18, 1796. mth
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 6,*? South Third ftreetjoppofite the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FROUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered ipto co-partner{hip, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the bnfinefs of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell on commiflion every species of stock, notes of .hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, See.
Money procured on dcpofits, occ. Sec. all kinds cf
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; account* adjusted, and books fettled, in the
most correA manner. Constant attendance will be given.
They solicit a (hare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy observed.
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED-
Philad. aufnift -27, 1796. m&wtf
City of Walhington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPIiOI'EMEftT 0 f THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & ?
3 calh are ) 5°,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cafb 25,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
' 1 ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
I ditto 5,000 & ca(h 5,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & c<a(h 5,000 10,000
1 cacti prize of 10,000
2 do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
20 do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. 100 • 10,000
200 do. 50 10,000
400 do. 25 - 10,000
1,000 do. 20 - 20,000
15,c00 do. • 150,000
it 5,739 PriSM.
33*261 Rlanki.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Doilarc, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Ticket*,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the l*st drawn
ticket, ancl the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prises, in ten days atter drawing, will be reoeived'for
any number not left than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be credledin of Walhington—
Two beautiful defigne are already ifor the entire
fronts on two of the ptfMic squares ; from these prnwings
it ispropofed toered two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, an.d to convey
them, when complete* to the fortunate adyentur«rs, in
the manner in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five par cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, the surplus
will be made a part of *he fund intended for thcNatbnnJ
University, to b« exeded within the city of W&fhmgton.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
old off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty day*
actor it'is finifhed ; and any prize* for which fortuhite
numbers are not produced within twelve months after the
drawing isclofcd, arc to be considered as j;iven towards
; the fun 4 for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real fecuritiesgiven for the payment o.f the Prizes,
ire held by the Prefidcnt and two Dire<s!ors of tin* Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commissioners afiifted in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are rcqueftcd to undertake this arduous task
a second time 011 bcnalf ©f the public ; a fufficient num
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jc&smay contißueto favor,the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been fsnt for sale, the public are alfured that the
drawing will speedily commence, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
the tickets, has rendered the ftiorr suspension indifpenlable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bonk of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Uoflon t
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; aad of Richard Wells'
Cooper's c*
Bank of North America.
TMH STOCKHOLDERS *e hereby notified that an
elcition for twelve Dire&ors for the ensuing year will be
held at the Bank on Monday the gth of January at ten
o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Ctffiirr.
Dee. 6. 5t?T-
I J "
VVafhington Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
: two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
. a Canal through the City of Walhington, fro«i th Po
: tomac to theEaftsrn Branch Haruour.
i The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
1 Viz-/I Pjizeof 10,000 dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
I 7 lad drawn") „
Tickets,cach j *> 00 ° 35 -°°°
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
10 ditto 100" 1,000
55 ditto 50 4,750
J 750 ditto 13 69,008
To be raised for the Car.al, 16,15 a
! .
5850 Prizss, ,
l|6jo Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,0c0
The Commiflioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aft for the panftual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing ef tins Lottery will cemmcnce, without
delay, as soon as thf Tickets are fold, of which timely
a notkc will be given.
Such prizi-» as are not demanded in fit months after th»
i>aw.in<j is Cnifhed, shall be cor.ficlered as rclinquifhed for
r the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(SigmdJ NOTLEY YOUNG,
e' DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
„ LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
r Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
c JAMES BARRY.
City of Waftipjjton, Feb. 11. 5
Paterlon Lottery.
r T7OR raifmg fix thoufimd fix hundred and sixty-seven
n ■JL dollarß and fifty cents, by a dedu&ion of fifteen per
cerit from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prizu. viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
I 1000 1000
i 500 SCO
5 100 *oc©
20 100 1000
99 50 4950
2CO 2.5 SOO©
J": 2000 IO 20,000
,f 5 Last drawn numbers ©1 1000 dollars each, 5000
d *33* Prizes. 44,450
I 4018 Blanks.
•
1 63J0 Tickets at Seven Dcjlar'each, 44,450
By ordvr of the Directors of the Society for eftablHh
e ing Ufeful Manufailures, the fuperiotendauts of the Pat
, erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
_ foregoing S«h«me to the public, and have dire&ed them
to refnnd the money to those persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or .exchange the tickets for tickets
r. this Lottery.
The lottery lias a&ually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
" may be seen at the office ol William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second ftre.t, who will give information where tick
ets may b« procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
y. n- Gumming, }
' JACOB R. HARDENBERG,>Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATE OF THE WHEEL.
I Prize of 5000 ... jaoo
1 1000 ... 1000
1 500 ... 5»o
j 100 . - - i«oo
ao ico - - aooo
90, jo ... 45 00
165 35 - 4 us
The five last drawn tickets, 1000 e«ch, 5000
Being all the valuable prize], besides a full
tion of the 10 dollars.
As tie Lottery is considerably more than otic third
drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
ly increased, and it is worth tht notice of those
who hold tickets, in th»old scheme, that they can ex
change their tickets for thole in the above, if they ap
ly soon, and at a moderate advance considering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all ibid, the drawing in
future will be oftener, and the Lottery soon finiihed.
November 11. ~ mws
By Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
' SoU by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South SecondJ]net,
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
5 For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an ACI q|
ilhe Lfgiflature of Pennfylvaaia, paiietf during the last
y feflion, for building a Stone Bridge over the River
t) Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
Berk*. Dollars,
i Priae of 20.000 Doliaw - ao.oeo
1 do. of to,coo do. • - ao.obo
3 do. of 5,000 do. - - 15,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. » - 8,000
*0 do. of 1.000 do. - 29,000
e 39 do. of 500 do. - . if), 500
f 80 do. of soo do. - - , . 16,000
e 200 do. of 100 do. - - - 2.0.00©
p 300 do. nf 50 do. - - 15,000
* 1 do* of 500 do to be paid the pofTef-)
e for of the firii drawn no. \ CO
5 do* of 3,000 do, to he paid pofleflors )
of the fire last drawn nos )
r, 9,4®0 do. o 15 tlo. s - 141,000
C "
10,054 Prizes 300,000
10,046 Hlanks
c 30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,00 c
c All Prize* fiiali be paid fifteen days after the drawing
finifhed, upon the demand of a poiTcflor of a fortunate
e tickct, fubjrtl to a deduction of twenty per cent. The |
Drawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are disposed
of* or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William IViiman,
s J°j e ph ffiifier, James Dimmer y Thomas Dundas,
e James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Craejj\
i Scbaftian Milftr, Commissioners.
1 Reading, May the gth, 1755.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 1, to be had at the
above office, where the earlisft information of the draw
s ing of the Walhirgton No. a, ar« Patterfon lottery's,
: are received, and ciieck books for examination and registering
'tering are kept.
OiSober j- aawtf
Le Breton,
S UR G EON-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. Dubois, late Dentiil to tHe
King and Royal Family of Ffance, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at Pari*,
Keeps a complete aflortment of every thing necefiaiv
to be uled for the
Preservation of the Mouth and Teeth.
Patent Minora! Teeth, and Human & Ivory Teeth ;
Dentrifice in powder ; Opiate ; exoellent Elixir for
sweetening the mouth and preserving the teeth —tie
also furnifhes Brushes and foft Sponges.
* it * He live 6in Chefnut-ftreet, No. 135, above
Fourth-street.
November a 6. tts
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'POUGALL willopen hisfchool on Mon
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at hi»
Elegant l\ew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to i o'clock
on Mondays, Wedrtefday, and Friday mornings; and-fof
young gentlemen from 6to 9 o'clock on,the evening*©
the fame days.
In addjtibn to a number of new cotillions, he means tw>
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firH; pra&ifip.g ball to be on Tuesday e
vening, the firft of November, and to be continued every
Tucfday, during the season.
For terms, &c, enquire at his house, No.l34, Market
er eet.
OA. 17- tthf
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufaflory, fifuifce
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almotf new,
on an entirely original conftruftion, and biiilr of (he bell
materials, and mav be fat to work immediately. Person»
whowifoto pure ha fe, are requ cited to apply at No. 273,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f tt
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RANAWAY from the fuhferiber on the 23d o<stob*r,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 21 years
old ; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mwted green
coat, with a grerni velvet cape and oval yellow buttons f
a striped vert ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
whole boots much worn. It is prpbgble he may change
his name and dress. He has been accustomed te driving
1 a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will V*
paid for securing him so that the fulil. riber may get him
again, and if brought home all reasonable charges paid by
, Robins Chambcrlaine.
1 Eaflon, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 ' jmiuwtf
Samuel Richardet
' O ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this iky opened the CITY
1 TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city of Philadelphia.
The Subscription Room wHI be furnifhed with all the
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with thole of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be rsfjfckrly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
' will at all times be procured at the bar.
I Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
thechoieeftof Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
approved Malt Liquors froraLondon ajjd other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or fingl* Gentlemen, may he
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours mod convenient to themfelvea—a cold Collation is
regularly kept for conveniency, the Billot Fare to be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, aKd
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
Samuel Richardet will behappy to receive, and
execute the commands of his FriciYds, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part fhalihe wanting to pre
serve that patronage with which he has been so distinguish-,
ingly i'lonorcd.
Philylelphia. April 19. nrwf
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Trcafory
until the expiration of the firft day of March next en
suing, for thefupply of all rations which may he required
for t!ie «fe of the United States, from the firft day of
Juiie, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the plates and within the diflriots here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara ; at
Paefque lfle; at Sanduflcy Lake, and on l Sanduiky
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fojt-Haiuilton ;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon; at Grer.ville; at
PicqueTown and I.oramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort DcPance ; at any place b.low Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lalor Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at Fort Maflac ; at any plate from Fort Malfac
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
Mifiifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies (hallbe required for any polls or places not
mentioned in this notice, Ml such supplies shall be fur
nifhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter jgreed on
between the United States and the Costra&or.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounees »f
pork or bacon.
Half n gill of rum, brandy rr whiskey.
One quart and half a pint of falt."\
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( , , , .
Two pounds of Soap, ( F er hundred rations
One pound of Candles, J
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities, as that
rfier-fhall at all times during the said term, be fu.ficiest
for the coafumption of the troops at Michilimackiivac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the t:tni of fn months in
advance, and at each of the other ports, for the term of
at lead three months in advance, in good and wliolefo'me
provifion»,ifthefame Ihall be required. It is to be un
derload, that the Contra£or isto be at the ex«euce and
rilk of iffuirg the fuppliss to the troops at rcch 'post, and
th3t all lofTes sustained by "the depredations of an enemy, or
by means of the troops of the.United States, (hall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or deltroysd, .on
the depofitioF.s of two or more persons of creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a commifiiojicd officer, af
certainingthe circumstances of the loss, and the amount
of the at tides for which compcnfation fliall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the I reafury.
PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. 119—•
CHES NUT-STREET.
[Price Fight Dollars p«r .Aiixniin.J