• f • ' ' '• -£3r ' m
''. ' -
&a?ette of the mmtm States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
WEDNESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 5, 1796. - > X.
Number-lIJI-} , .. —
K.;l, ' - I'r ; ~Z ~* r~.. c„u i 7 !?«,. I Vrnn KA- t.V
For Glasgow,
The good brig COMMERCE,
E. TALtMAU, matter.
S^WIESBSfc
n a , f Soutn Thied-ftreet,
3 ' 5 ftnnojke Mr. Chew's Gardens.
Far Boston,
TA# Schotner JOHN,
A cenft'ant trader, Peter Coffin, maP.er,
iyin * at Mr. Vanuiem's wherf, will fail in all next week.
For Freight orpaffage apply to th? Captain on board or o
Edward Stow, jun.
VTho has r-ceivrr! by the above vessel,
Some excellent Pickled Salmon,
and a few quintals of the.
Very bed; kind of Dumb Filh.
September .30. 12.
For Cork,
■ The Ship Mary Ann,
Francis Stuart, matter: is a ftreng, good
(hip, fails fall, and has good accommo
• Nations for passengers. Great part of her cargo being
ready, she will fail in 10 days. For freight or passage
auply to the Captain on board, at Mr. Shoruli s wharf,
Or to Stuart Barr.
Sept. 29. dtf No. 1 go, South Front-street.
g- tor Charter,
The . Ship Dominich Terry,
Jacob" De Hart, matter': ail excellent
JeJfe fcf Robert Wain.
September ?- T. d
tJCT. For Charter,
The Danish Barqfce Beneventura,
Samuel Stub, master,
A good vessel, of about two
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WAT,N.
Sept. iy. dtf
. FOR LONDO^
'^ ,^9 capital ship CERES,
To fail soon : —For freight or passage
jgfegS?,. ppl-v to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
John Vaugban,
September 10. Front-street.
FOR SALE,
1 jjjjfiL iliip STAR,
.Wreri John Vanneman, Master,
T YING at Walnut-ftr«et wharf, Philade'-
I 1 phia biiilt, of live oak and cedar, will
carry about 3100 barrels, Is two'years old, and in corn
plea; order to receive a cargo—j'or terras apply to
THOS.&JOHN KETLAND.
Who have also for sale said vessels cargo—consisting of—
Wine and Porter bottles,
Window Gafs, 6 by 8 to 16 J>y li.
Pipes in boxes
Earthen-Ware in crates.
Grind/tones, Coals, Whiting, &e.
*"g. 19 §
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo ef the (hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK (iOODS.
AMONG WHfCH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Muslins,
Doreas, Isfc. Alio,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
■ Willings Ss? Francis^
No. 21 Penn Street.
June 8 § .
Manufactory FDR SALE.
t A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almolfc new,
on an entirely original conftruftion, and built of the best
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Pecfons
whowiftito purchase, are requtfted to apply at No. 273,"
South Second Street.
September 13. t t f t f
Dutch Goods,
, Received by the Pcnnfylvania, from Amjierdam,
GW, in pipes
Morlaix ")
Ticklenburgs > In Bales
Ofnaburgs J
BS£
RavenV* } DUCK > in di «o
Bedticks, in ditto
Brittagnes 7
Platilles | ,n dltto
For Sale by 'THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
Aug. 19 §
John Whitefides & Co.
Have for Sale,
Vt ne'ian Red,
Spanilh Brown,
White Lead, ground in oil;
Shot, No. I, i, 3, 4, $•
London Poiter, in calks and bottles.
Green Copperas.
Several crates of Queens Ware, in feces, with itfert
ditto complcat.
Blillered Steel,
German ditto.
£ept. 21.- • djw
Dissolution- of Pitrtnerfliip.
THE Paitnerfrin between ROBERT ANDREWS and
"D AVID MEREDITH, under the firm of ANBREWS
and MEREDITH, bring diilolved All persons who ire
jgdrbted to, or who have claims against the laid ho lie, are
reqtieiled to apply for fcttlement to the fuhferibrr.
ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, So. Wharret.
Sept.6, > 'f
For Sale,
30 Hogftieads of choice New-Ehgland
Rum,
TO Landing fremthefc'nooaer John.at Vanuxena'swharf.—
, d For terms apply to No. 71, North Water Street, at ih»
" kead of the wharf.
oa.». dtf.
LANDING,
—* jFrona on board the Brig REBECCA, Doaninic Davine,
Master, at Philip Care's Wharf.-auAf** li» ll.*c
• Subscriber, ( '
, r London Particular Madeira IVIIvi.,
In Pipes, Hogfneads and Quarter Calks.
t0 There are in tie above parcel 10 Hhds. of CHOICE
OLD WINE, fit for immediate use. •
Robert Andrews,
Sept. 6. mw&f No. 86, So. Wharves.
Thomas'Ryerfon
HAS jufl received, hy the (hips Molly and Hamburgh
Packet from Liverpool, and the Light Horse from
Bristol, and is now opening for sale, at his store No.
177, Market-street, an extenfivc assortment of
. Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware
o and Saddlery.
The {hip Caroline, now on htr passage from Liverpool
?e to Philadelphia, brings the remainder of his fall itnpor
tation.
N. B. At'the above store may be had, a few elegaßt
Mahogany Cases for Table Furniture; also, a good as
sortment of the best kinds of Knives and Forks.
Sept. 13.
trench Goods.
Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-de-
Grace,
»> Trunks -» . , SHOES * of aJI colors fort! ac a foes
I Cafe j
I Ditto whica and colotcdSilk STOCKINGS
~ 1 Ditto Fine LAWN
-1 Ditto best fine CAMBRIC
I Ditto Ladies' best shammy and Grenoble Gloves
» For Sale by THOMAS 8c JOHN KETLAND ;
/.up. a 4 * ">
Win. HOLDERNKSSE,
No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by*the arrivals from Europe and
the East Indie*, a well feleftcd assortment of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberda'fhery Goods; which 1
re he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms ;
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and frtver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul dittft .
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black (affefies,lutcftrihgsand colored Peril ails
Sandano Handkerchiefs
Long and short Nankeens
Etrylilh Mantuas of the fii-ft quality
Damask table linen andnapkins, very fine > |
'• Silk Hofiefy, an elegant affortm«nt
'' Thead and cotton de
'*! Umbrellas—green fllk, oil'd da. and do cl«th
French cambrics, very fine
Trifh Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
For Sale,
(In art excellent fituatibn for bnlinefs,)
A three-story brick House and Lot of t
Ground,
Eighteen feet front and twenty-five feet in depth, on '
the South fide of Market near Front-street, now in posses- '
fion of Samuel-Read.
Apply to
Israel Pleafants, or
Charles & Joseph Pleafants. '
ls Jij. dtf
— — ——— r
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent, c
5 APTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Eif- 1
bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf— c
18 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bates of Spanilh wool '
3 do. of Annifeed
700& Bulhels of best Lilbon Salt • , '
80 Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS. f
ALSO,
Seventy Hogfhcads of prime JAMAICA JSUGARS, c
received by the lhip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart,
e from Kingston. ' r
Sept. 13. d
« FOR SALE, ■ 1
I, . WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old>
in pipes and hogsheads
Claret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland t
Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, in hogsheads f
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead I
Steel, Gf. nai; and Russia, in ban-els
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas, I
lin plates—An invoice Stationary. t>r
THOMAS & JOHN KETL A NIT.
, July *9 '<s -k
— I i- X.
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second strelt.
TICKETS m-'the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale a '
Check Book for examinatien—and prizes paid in
the late lottery. 1 1 1
Check Books kept for examination and r fiftering, for 1 s
the City of Walhington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries, t
both of which are no,w drawing—information where i.
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn ' t
tickets. A complex lift of all the priies in (he late New- f
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for t
examination. -
The fubferiber fofceits the application of the public !
and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock, t
Certificates, Bills ef Exchange or Notes. Houses, Lands' a
t &c. or to obtain money on depolit of property.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Augup 18, 1796. m th
NOTES LOST. t
WHEREAS two notes drawn by Benjamin Halkell 1
and George W. Klrkland, dated Boilon, the 24th 1
d February 1796, payable to Joseph May, er order, in i 3
s months after date, one for One Tlioufand Dollars, the
e otr.er Fifteen Dollars, weie flolen withfome other papers
■ e out of a t,r«nk on the I.ancafler road it.is rcqucfted that r
any pcrfon to whom they may be offered for negociatWß, i
wnl give noti« thereof 10 the fubferihrr. t
OARRFiT COTTRINOER. t
Sept. 30, ustf _ i
'
. . For Sale,
d By J. WARDER,, PARKER £* Co.
An Tavoioe of Cordage, ,
— Confining of dilfcrent files, frupi 1 % inch cables down ,
18 to rope of i inches, of different lengths: Imported In ,
the ship Swft, from Hull, and entitled tc drawback. <
Sept. 27. dtf i
_ — — i
Twenty'Ga&s' excellent Claret and «
£ A ; w -,v choice Bordeaux Brand 1 ;,
* 1 J°f e pb Anthony iff Co.
September 2d6
E .NAN K EE'NSj
Of the frjl quality, FOR SALE BY.
RD. and J AS. POTTER.
For any quantity above Five Thoafand Pieces, a li
beral credit will be given. R. & J. P.
September ij. T. tf
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the bejl quality and on reajonable terms >
for sale by
Philip Nicklin & Co.
Augaft 1-b. ~ dtf 1
]1 ' THIS DAT PUBLISHED,
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
t (Price is 1-2 Cents)
r- The President's Address
To the People cf the United States,
-- Announcing hi 3 intention of retiring from public life
at the expiration of the prefect conflitutional term of
prefideqey. .
September 20. • d
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
Souchong
Fyfon Skin J
\oung Hyson > FRESH TEAS
Pylon and \
Imperial
Yellow Nankeens
China Ware, aflorted in Boxes and Chests
j
It Bandanrlo Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
I, chest
London Market } MADEIRA WINE i
London particular >in pipes, liog'fiieads, & '
r New-York .Market J . quarter "caflti
Teneriffe.Wise in pipes and iioglfceads
.Sugar Candybythc Box
6 Sail Canvas No. i a 8
Lead in sheets
3 Calks of Cutlery afTbrted '
A few chests of Manchefler Goods, afibrted thick
fes, cords, striped Nankeens, &'c.
-3-Siiiiall packages of black fewing-frlks
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-roof.
Nails 'aflorted in calks i
jtiLlSu mvSf
\Vanted to Rent, i
A convenient, well furnifhed Bed Chamber,
r With a jood fire-place, in an airy and healthy part of
' the city. l The person wh® wants to rent such a chamber,
would hatfe'no ohjeitiori to boanl, of breakfaft only, with
, the family occupying the ttoiife, as niay be moll agreeable.
Apply to the printer.
September 19. taw
' ]_ U
Public Notice is Hereby Given,
TO the Freemen of the.City ;fhd County of Phila» *
delphia, and the County of Delaware,ihat a gene- j
ral eledlion wiltbe held on Tuesday the eleventh day f
j of OdVober'next.—The eletfion to be opened between j
the hours of ten o'clock in the forenoon, and one j
o'clock m the afterntton. t
When the'freemtn of the City of Philadelphia, r.rz i
to nuet at the Statc-houie ia the city, to elefl
Si* Representatives for said city in General AfTem
bly,
One Representative sor 1 Taid city in theHpufe of Re
preftnt'ii iv'es ef the United States'.
Twenty'pfrfems for rnembtrVof the Common Coun
cil.
Twelve persons for metuVersof the Selefl Com
mittee. . . • '
T!he Freemen of the City and Cquutyof Philadelphia
. tceleft
"One person. for Governor
, Two persons' for' Coronet's ,
One perfdn for Cfciitity Coinmiilioner
The Ffetfrnen of the County 'of Philadelphia, to g
elei9 a
Six Rqjrefentatives for fsidCounty in General As- p
Hembly. ~ j ■ e
One Reprejentative for said county in ; the Hqufe of
Reprefent.ttivi-s of the United .States.
Thfe Freerhtn of the City and County of Philadel
, phia, anciCounty of Delaware, to etedt
One Senator for the State *
The Freerioen of the township of the Northern 1'
berties are to hold their ele&ion at the
Second Street continued, above Coats's Street.
Thij Freemen of the townlhips of Germantow'n, i 5
Roxbarough r.nd Bristol, are to hold their c led ion at 11
3 the Union School House in Germantov.-n.
, The Frcemea of the fo-wnlhips of Oxford, Byberryj
Lower Dilblm and Moreland, are to hold their elefVion
r ' at the hrufe of the late John tSarndey ift Bufsletown, in
i, the towafliip~of Lower Dublin. J
ej. And the Freemen of the Diftridf of Southwark, and f
I the townships of Moyamenfing, Paflyunk, and Kieg- "
- ieffing, are to hold their eledlion at. the State-House in ' C
r the City of Philadelphia.
The C«nftables of each Ward, Diflria, &c. arc to «
C hold their eleilion, in the different diffrisls to choose 11
> their infpexfVoi-s for the ensuing year, and to give their
> attendance at the time and refpeflive ol?ces.
" Sept. 26. JOHN BAKER, Sheriff.
*** The Electors of Chester connty are requested e
to m/et at Hunt Downing's, in Eaft-Ca'ln township, on
I Friday, the 7th day of Od\ober en-suing, to form a -
, ticket for the ensuing eltflion.
5 September 12, 1796.
s *** The Inhabitants of thje county of Cheiler are
t requested to meet at the noufe of Abraham Marlhall,
, m the township of Weft-Bradferd, i» said county, on b
the 7th day of Oflober next, in order to consult on a c
general ticket for the ensuing eieftions si
September 14, 1796.
FOR SALE,
:<?. By N. and J. FRAZIER,
No. 95, S. Front-street,
Prime Boston Beef, in barrels.
A * n Georgia Cotton.
' r - Carolina R,ce and Inditjo.
Sherry and i'eneriffe \Vmes, 0? excellent quality.
Ravens Duck.
indio 8.-.i'O. ;:i)o'-:.
id Sewing SiVi s various col-: urs.
CojJfch*a?d hurrahs.
5 ' 1 ' ttS4W.
For sale by the fublcribers,
IN PENN-3TSITET,
13© qunrter Chests frefh Ilyfon Tea
IGO ditto do. frefh Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing fiuall te% setts of 41
pieces;
400 pieces Bahtlanoes.
n - Willings & Francis.
Jamfary 30 y
... \ — }
FOR SALE.
PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND GIN, of the fir ft qualities in Pip.
FRAUNCES and VAN REED,
Brokers and Commifiicn Merchants, No. 63,50. 3d St,
Who discount approved NOTES of hand.
N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted.
September 74. mwf
THIS D'AY IS PUBLISH El), I ~
By W. YOUNG, MILLS and "Son^
Corner of SecoMt and Chef nut ft reels,
Price 12 1-2 cents,
of The President's Address
To the People of the United States*
. INTIMATING
The resolution he has formed to decline being coirfiderei'
among the Cumber of those out of whom /choice is to
be made, at the ensuing eleflion of a Prefidcnt of the
United States.
Sept. 20. / ws6
Great is Troth and must prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale at No- 41 CBefnut-Jireet by -J. ORMRODi
An Apology for the Bibi^e,
in By R. Watson, d. jd. f. it. s.
Bifhip of Landaff, isfc.
& Being a complete refutation of Paine's
Age of Reason,
Aid the only answer to the Second Part.
August 30. dtf
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By W. Young, Mills and Son,
k- [Price jocts. in boards, 64 1-2 neatly bound]
An Apology for the Bible ;
■In a series of Letters,
Addrefied to Thomas Paine, author of a book entitled
The Age 9f Reason, part ihe feccnrl, being an in•
I'ejiigction of trite and fabulous tbeohgy.
By R. WATSON, 1). L). F. H. S, Dorr! Bifliop of
Landaff, and Regius ProfefFor df Divinity
of in-tlie Usiveriity of Cambridge.
■r, Sept. 16. tu&f6
le. India Tamboured Muslins.
_ A small* handsome assortment of Mujlins,
viz.
Fihe tamboured Alalda and Santipsre Muslins, variout
1 ' patterns and prices.
e " Plain 6-4 Jaconet.
»y Corded and crofs-fiarred Muslin Shawfe.
' n Ditto ditto 6-4 and 4-4 Dorcas
ne Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarse.
Japan Muslins, and •
re A few pieces extraordinary fine Long Cloths.
lOR SALE BY
a " Thomas Tingey,
No. I2J, South Third-flreet
e" Sept 11. tutf&f
n " Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
n _ Including the Northekn Liberties and diltrift of
SOUTHWARK,
PuMifhed, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High street,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 26 inches square, and has been en" 1
to graved by one of the firft artists In the city, from a late
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
f- phlet with each plan, giving f< some account of the
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
as July 19 , tußcftf
1. TAKE NOTICE.
rHE fubferiber to make application for a re*
newa! of the following certificate, supposed to be ,
|l loft on the passage to' England in April 1794 :
in Cert Hi cat e No. dated 15th November, 1793,
for 2830 dollars and 02 cents—Six per cent, domcftic
n debt, on the books of ihe Tre«fury ef the United States',
j in the name of the Hon John Trevor.
ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's.
Philadelphia, August 30th, 1796. 'tu&.f6w
Tn WAN T E~B; "
Three JOURNETMEN BOOK-BINDERS,
id OOD steady workmen will meet with constant em
g- Vjr ploymsnt.and good wages ;by applying to JOHN
in' CURTIS, No 43, North Fourth-street. *
N. B. BOOK BINDING in all its different branches, \
to executed with neainefs and dllpatch. Public and private
[ e libraricsrepaired in the r.eateft and best manner.
:lr September 20. ..t & 2W
.BRAHBY,
~ OF id and 4th proof, and equal in quality to thatimport-
D( j ed from France, may be had of the fdbfcfiber at his Diftil
)n lcry, No. 115, Story or New-street. between Third and
Fourth-streets, where the public, upon application, may
a judge for themselves, and will find it an obje£l well worth
their attention.
RUM and GIN in any quantity, for exportation or heme
cbnfumption, and of fupeiior quality—by
!^ e Thomas Cave.
P.S RYE, MALT, BARLEY, and MELASSES, wf«
3n be purchased, or taken in exchange for spirits, upon appli
-1 a cation as above. Also any of Claret or other wiser
fit for distillation.
ugufl 29 h, 2796. v M4WUniversity of Pennsylvania, , *
October 5, 1796. \ j
The Metrical Le&ures will commcnce the firft Monday
111 November. ta\V3w
THE PANTHEON,
And R/cxetts's Amphitheatre, t
For Equestrian and Stag* performances, Corner of (
1, Chefnut and Sixth directs, will bo opened onMMO- t
k»_ DAY, October the loth, with a > f
Brilliant Display of Scenery, <
AND ORNAMENTAL PAINTINGS, l
New /if his, and a great varietr of >■ j
SUPERB DECORATIONS. I
Ma. Ricsetts will endeavor to make the entertain- e
ments of the evening as agreeable as possible, being re-. r
fotved to use his best exertions to render fatisfaflion to. (
the friends and patrons of this favorite and elegant
ariufement.
The doors will open at 6 o'clock—Performance s
commences it 7—Boxes 7s. <Sd.—Pit 3s. 9i.
Tickets to be had at the ticket office of the Pantheon, f
and at CEllers's hotel. jj
Evenings of Performance to be Monday, Wednef- j
' <Jjy, 'Thursday and Saturday.
No 152. *
DiJiriH of Pennfylvan'ta, to wit :
BE it remembsjed, that on the seventeenth day of Sep- 0
tembcr, in the twenty- 'rft year of th: independence u
of the United States of America, William Mitchell, of t!
the said diftri'ft, deposited in this office the title of a book, (|
the right whereof he claims as author, in the words fdl- ,
lowing, to wit:
" A new and complete system of book-keeping, by in P
" improved method of double entry, adapted t» retail, do- it
" meftie and foreign trade ; exhibiting a variety of tranf- n
" anions whicn usually occur in business. The whole a|
" cdmprifed in three sets of books; the last set being a copy
'• of thefccond, according to those systems most generally K
"in usr f is given in order to exhibit, by a comparative 0
view, the advantages of t'hj system now laid down. To w
" which is added, a table of t'ne duties payable on goods, j c
*' wares andmercbandifeimported into the United States v
"of Ameriofc. The whale in dollars and cents.
" By William Mitchell."
la conformity to the-aS of the Congress of the United -'
States, intituled," An aft fir the encouragement of learn- tl
jng, by securing the eopies'of maps, charts and books to j|
the authors and proprietors of such copies, during the w
times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, elk. dift. S
Pennsylvania. 18
N. B. The above Bosk is now publiflied, and may be tl
had of the Boakfellers o<9ob?rj. *iaw4w £
•—" ■ " ; J,
For New-York, Newport, it
and Providence* v
The new Shop EAGLE,
Jobn Earl, master : \roll fail in a few day*; hat elegant p
accommodations for paffeftger», and v*2ll take freight on
moderate terms. Apply to the master on board, or to
joseph Anthony & Co, &
Otiober j. d t S 6i
~D 1S T ft ICT COURT, ) IT —
Pennsylvania Diftridh S JJ' S
IN pursuance of a writ to me directed, from the g
Honorable Richard Feters, Esquire, Judge of the Dif- d
trfdk Court of the United States, in and for the Pennfyl- ai
vania Diftridt, will be exposed to Public Sale at the
Merchant's Coffee-Honfe, in the City of Philadelphia,
on Friday, the r4th day of O(Sober inft. -at 11 o'clock r i
at noon, the SHIP called al
tm. The JOSEPHUS, l Q ]
all and Angular her tackle, apps- til
Jsy'ti and furniture, as the fame now are, -1
the said Jfcip having been condemned ta pay mariners
wages, &e. WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marfcal.
Marlhal's Office, 4th OAober, 1796. d Z<
For Sale, *
The remarkable fall failing , W .
SCHOONER LIVELY, i lf
now lying at Hamilton's wharf, built in 1794 by Mr. 10
Yard at Ker.fingt«i, of iivc-oak and red-cedar her di- <x
tnelilions are 6g feet 3 inches length on deck 19 feet 6 in
inches breadth, of beam—B feet 4 inches hold— and car- ot
Ties between 5 and 600 barrels flour The Lively being ,L
„ well known here, any further description of her is mine- !
eefTary— to fay, that she is not inferior to any
veffe) of her Czc in any'refpeA whatever— For terms ap
t'y to EDWARD DUNANT, to
... No - *+9« foutk Front-street. (j(|
Who will have landed so Wednesday morning next, from l
on board the Brigantine LIBERIY, Captain MURPHEY *
at said wharf. ' p<
100 Hog/heads prime Havanna Mtldjfes» un
He has likewise for tale, do
A few packages ot CALCUTTA GOODS— Confiding of, de
rungim Cloths, Humh.nss, Tickerys, B.ftaei, Coffaes, „
Barhar, Pulhcat and Bsndanoo Handkerchiefs, Gurenahs,
blsck Taffatiej, Choppa Romalls, Garrahs, Patna Chimres tr J
&e. &e. Also, rn<
A quantity of Rhode-Iflsnd CKEESE* Spertnaceti CAN- rei
DLES, and a few barrels BEEF. c
Oft'ber ' 6t _ ,
Washington Lottery. 21
The Twenty-fourthfc I'wenty-fifth Days' Drawing of qu
the Lottery, No. «, are received at the office
No. 134, Market-street, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other !
lotteries may be procured. noi
October t, 1796. df act
Epi/ile to Porcupine.
,YHTS DAY IS PUBLISHED, by T. BRADFORD, ' jn :
No. 8, South Front-flreit, lui1 ui
A ■congratulatory Epistle
To the redoubtable Peter Porcupine, the
#n his " complete triumph ever the once towerin*- but c,r
fallen and despicable faction in the United States " and
A P0 E M, inft
By PETER GRIEVOUS, J«n. g"
To nubieh is annexed, erj
The Vision, l«
A Dialogue between Marat and Ftreupine in the in-
fernal regions. Uitt
A ' 3 rioi
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED, bri i
By Mathew Carev, iig, Market-ftreet> b y
A Dificrtation on Slavery
i WITH A PROPOSAL
For -the Gradual Abolition of it 1
In the State of Virginia. hat
■\ S JhT V^ E /^, KER ' P *S&r>fLa W i*
the Uyerfitj of miharn «-,i Marj, and o,re of it, ,
.be j iidges in the General Court in Virginia.
U r^T y - not - U,r , V;olate * the I - aw ' Nature and of
Cm Society, ,t alio wonnds the lieft forms of govern,
mint: m a Democracy, where all mcn are equal, slav«- "
ry is contrary to the spirit of the conflitution." Q ur
Scpul! , j (
From the Columbian Mirkor, and Alexandria
Gazttle. ,
}
Mr. Price, . ,
I read fomc time ago in your pajicr, a publication
taken (r«m the Dumfries Gazette, announcing ,
: of Charles Simms and Daniel iCarrol Bkent,
)N- as candidates at the approaching-election ,
ft>f an elector of a president and vicc-prefident
of the United States, for the diftriA -of Ptince {
, William, StaiFotd and Fairfax. The writer very
' properly'obfervei, that both those •gentlemen are (
highly refpcdtabltf, arid I belicrc nojuft exception (
ean be taken to the private charadier of euher. It
' re " may, therefore, be thought immaterial 011 whom _
"ant t ' )e choice of t"hediltrift mr.v fall. This, however,
' it far from being the cafe arid the public-gocd is t
ince
deeply mtereftedTn the event. d
•If there had heretofore been any 3nubt on the
:on, fubjeft, the proceedings of the last feflio'n of cob- (
grefs have demonftiatcd to all America and to all i
ne '" Europe, thfit there are two parties unfoitun^tel)'
existing tn the United States, totally oppoiire in ( |
their political opinions ; in a few words, they may ,
be defined to be the " Friends" -and the " Enemies" 2
; t p. of the govern men t uniler which \v« live with such J
:nce unequalled comfort andprofptiity. The friends of
• of the government are composed of those who origi-
nally supported the cohftitution, and of those who,
having in the beginning eppofed it, have, from ex- |
-in perienctng the happy effects of its operation, become
do- its advocates. Among the enemies of the govern-
,nf - meat, very few will be found who did wot oppose it
e at the time of its ratification. These thought the ~
aKy K ovirnmcnt 'wrong in its principles, and incapable
Live of promoting the welfare of the people; and, not-
To- with Handing the unexampled bkflings we have en
'd», joyed, and still enjoy, -under its admiuiftration, (the O
itc ' very reverse of all the woes they had predi<3ed} blind.
to the public felicity, they continue to interpefe all
(ted their power to check its operations, and fmftrate
rn- the means which have raised us from our degrada-
"tion and mifeiy, prefervei? <ur pewSe, encrtafed our
wealth and hippinefs at home, »nd rendered u* Br
lift. B reilt fd refpeftable ia the eyes of mankind. It
is between these two opinions that the eit zens of m
•be theTJnited States ainft chufe in elcdling iheir pre
' fident and vice-prefidest ; and by the ctoice of er
Mr. Simmi or Mr. Brent, will the diftrtftexprefs
rt, its approbation or disapprobation, both of tur go
vernmeat and of its meafuris. for never wire po
. litical opinions more fairly brought before tie pub
i?it lie, than in the persons of Mr. Sirarns ard Mr.
cn Brent; the former gentleman having been a urii
„ form a friend to the constitution, and its almini- ' n
{(ration, as the latter has bees decidedly oppafed ta w
both. Pc
~ If our fcllo-.v-crtixsnsj therefore, approve their 11!
government, if they approve the policy "whicn haii j e
the guiJed its councils, If they prefer the exiting of
)if- der and harmony to the lately threatened anarchy ot
th- and^ r!^c ' the plenty and abundance which crswn eo
iia, do . r lrtduSr y' to l^e accumulated calamities of fa- fy
jck r f'£" w,r Bnd domestic division, in their choic: of an
a# Eledor, they will undoubtedly direst theii at- nc
teutson to the>man who, having manifefted his lore cn
°.f our excellent conllitution, and approbat.oa of
p»- the wife proceedings under it, may be relied on to
£ choofc a person to fill the important offiee of Presi
dent of the United States, who will im/tatf, with th
zeal and courage, the patriotic, firm and pinvident m<
J. conduit of ourpfefelit Cliief Magiltrate.
From frequently hearing that it hasiong been the P°
wish Of General Washinotwh to rrtire ti> private a "
lifc ( and lately that he v/ould cerainjy execute that ,f
intention as soon as "bio present term of office fhatl tcc
ii- 5*P' rt » 1'« inclined to believe that, at the enfu- ' ,a
6 ing election we shall be obliged to appoint forae tbl
ir- other perfoo to the arduous ftation,'which he, for in
ii [ he M f " en y esn> ha * with so much glory to vie
and to hia country. Having cob- I
p. du&ed our armies through a long and glorious wlr
to the attainment of our independence ; having as
(ifted in formiag a wife and free government, to en.
Y, able 1,1,0 ,m P r ovc the ft.ll advantages of du- inde
pendent situation ; haTiqgbeen called twice by oUr mc
U unanimous fufiVage to the chief office and most ar- »»
doous duties of tiiat government J having fee™ un. »•
>f, oer his aulpices public credit revive, and with it pri
rate confidence, and universal exertion and induf
c» tf 7 > Wchcld all the arts euher ufeful 01 onia
mental to ioc»'e: y# jptttfdlng thcinfetrea in tvery di
;™ Wlifhin » lhe 'emote cotsere '
of the United States, ana particularly that pilla-of
" ; irtUC ; wr -l lh and of any people, aerial-
/»«, ioynlh ,n >n unyrecedented degree , h av «*k
tTdif A T Crad,C : havi "g "ccommoda »ti
j. ted K all de P*r dlD / ostreverfies with the Indian "e
;r tribes and with foreign poweis, with advantap-c and J
honour to the nation ; having seen all these thing,
- j , Under U g u 'd«Bce and proteaion •
and, finally, having vindicated the constitution of
hm country from the facnlegious violence of fafli. (
>, ' Jn ! ha ' done atl thst da '-J or fatrhtifm can re- Ind
quire, or a grateful people aik. We must) thcrt . '
lore, without a muimer, permit him to spend the 5°
remaining year, of hi, ufefn! and venerable life, in a »
the emoyment of that tranquility which, from his evcl
t c »rheß youth, he has facrificed to the public zood La
and of thofc signal blessing, which heha. bSfo
mftriimental in securing to us all. But while our
gratitude afend. h,m to his retreat, while tfur pray I
ers invoke heaven for his fafctv and hi- K,v. • 7 1
• SsZ'ii « rr 1 i L
bitter the last hours of his life by Wafting the do Hci
nous fruitsl of his admimftration, and obicuring the witl
bright profpeft, which it has opened <o our view in c
I ' l> h '' f ««effor a person who may undo mos
d .f e - £ or ">fy "is to pull down, of t
but bard to build up. Let us guard the happmefl efch
we possess, and transmit it to our childien. w : t j
Above all, let us chcrifh the constitution whieh tren
has been the mrtrumcr.t of that happmefs. Let Li
. us not cntruft it into the hands of those who hate 2c
prefucred l f ,C by wh '" ch we ,lave I"°'
protpcred. To «fcer U in who are the friends of ine
" "- d W , h ° OU « ht ,0 be ™"^ d Aul
" I ff l r 1 ' 0 "', 1 -' US aflt the cand 'dateß for Ut c
our luffrages these questions: * j.
-ASir " pp ° r ' ,hc ""
in ti
N
1 -
2d. Have you not «Jifappro»sd in general the
mesftHcs of the administration ?
3d. Did you not, and do you 'not, approve of
the coiidud of the houfeof reprefcritatives in their
attempt, during the last feffioo of eoiijjrcis, to
usurp the powers of the president and feru'.e !
! 011 a til. Are not the oppofera of the coni'.itution
the enemies of the adminiftnvtion, and the ap
fr' proversof the conduA ol • the house of reprefenta
ldn tives in thfir atteinpt last mentioned, the 'pcrfoiia
CMt who exert themfeKva tnoft to ' promote your clec
nce ■ ,
tion :
Cl - Theperfo'R who cannot answer in the negative
E c to all, particularly to the three last queftiona, whit
lcj" ever may he his private virtues, is u ifit to be (rutt
ed with the appointment of so important an officer
° m as the president »f the United States, on whose
j firm'nefs and wifdoin the maintenance of our tanfli
-13 tuiion, of coir laws, and 0f otfr peace, materially
depend. |
It may bethought that, In fc |iijbiicatr<»n like 5
a U this, the pretensions of the various candidates for i
the prelideney, ought to be This k a '
talk which properly belongs to the cleftors when j
' they meet, and to them lam disposed to leave it.
If we are so careful in choosing otir electors a-i to
appoint only those who have manifeftcd an wvform
real and attachment to the government of their a
. country, ire tnsy fafely confide that they will be t
| (low their votes on the men most likely to main- t
x ' tain car conilitution, and the piefent happy order 0
of things. I cannot be so credulous as to believe '
that this can be expelled from tkofc who are enemies la 5
°* f"th. A FARMER.
lie FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE. I
it- a.
n- PARIS, 28th Meffidcr. fc
he Orders given by general Buonaparte* to the consul P
ndj l^e French republic at Leghorn, 10 Meffi- w
all dar, June 38.
te " The consul of the French republic (hall put
a - 'he sea's upSn all the magazines belonging to the
ur Englilh, to the emperor, to the ernprefsftf Ruffi*.
lit sriG ' genrtal to all the piinces or fubje&s of the a
| t states with which we are -at war; he (hall make-an di
0 f inventory of the goods. 1
•e- "He (hall take alKlepi, adopt allmeifures, ind
of employ all neceflaiy means to discover the merchan
.f, dite which may .have been deposited with the dif- !'
°" f cr " [ merchants at Leghorn—of that property he
10 . (hall take poffeflion. b
b- (Signed) «« BUONAPARTE." c '
si"- in execution of the order of the general, the ,
,j consul Of the Frcnch republic invites all the inha
iJ. bitants of the city of Leghorn and its environs, *'
t0 whatever nation and quality they may be, who
pofiefi, under the name of deposit, or any other f"
:ir nimc > efFe£l(, merchandize, silver, gold, money,
„ Jewels, hoifes, furniture, &c.' belonging to the h
lubjcfts of Great-Britain, the empire, Ruffii, or
ry O" 1 " enemies of the republic, to deliver in the
, 0 course of to-morrow, 12 Meflidbr (June 30, old
j. style) to the consul himfelf, a detailed account, ,
0 f and tiue declaration of the effects aad sums of me
t- nc T» "hicn belong to the absve-mentioned-Hates,
rc eneraiet of the repablic.
,y rh ° fc^ ho havc contr «fte4 with the enemieg of p<
>0 tbc r «P u Wic in a«y manner and form soever, are te
[j. equally to make tbeir declaration to the consul of
h t e republic, which is to serve simply El a neseffary U
lt mcafure to the examination of them. m
The consul particularly invites the French to Z
' C P i r n :.° U A ,oh " n,hcfM ' depofne., „r fh
te alienated by pretended sales, or in any other man- <1,
h m r ° Uvf . for rctai "i»g them (hall be admit-■ in
£ ' a P rovcd that tlle Fr ench citizens
'• tK I r Un,<l bccn def P°i'ed or injured by
e the Und measure, of the enemies of the republic
„ "J he port of Leghorn, and that even force and ™
0 violence have been employed. lif
w J t ,'V he ' fforl . t>!e legitimate right of reprisal
R- *hich the French republic exerts, and a reftiiution pr
f. ol lit property, equally just, which it claim, to - til
'* y i c °"' or niably to the right of all nations. wl
m f °/T ?,® L the declara,ion » IwfVe been made, fee
lr mealures fhirll be taken to ascertain their exaftnefs, Su
.. and to a flu re the (cquefiration of the (aid eflfVas. f °
•n,l? "i ali . "egleft making declarations, »»«
!. 01 inali make them incomplete, will expose ihem,
- leltCß ,r> vcre researches, aad to fatal confe- co
» enc L ee > which, out of regard to tl-.eir own inter- ® trc
e.t, they ought nor to fubjtft therafelves to. J °f
, ihe intention of the general in chief is that all ! th<
f the property of the enemies of the republic be de- !aP
hvered into the hands of the republic as piizes
, taken by sea ; it, consequence and by this confide- dn
. ration, all researches, all trials, all conderanations,
, are attached to the consular jurifdiftion.
5 Leghois, 11 Melfidor (49th June) 4th year
, of the republic,
f LONDON, August 4.
■ . P n boar(}l! 'e Rockingham (vutward bound East
, Indiaman) at ica, J«!y 7.
" P. S. One of our frigates fell in wi:h a French
. (hip yesterday, which (he captured, after
1 a ™ort actian, and joined us with her prize this
t evening.
, latest from the northern the
AT RE OF H'JR.
XT Frankfort, Jut* iq.
Not a (ingle Augrian is to be feeu f«- twenty
leagues in circumference on the other fide of the
Rhine. The imperial troops retreat by forced
marches through the foreit of Odcwald, towards
eilbronn, ln order ,0 a junction.if possible
: wuh tl:e '""T «f the Upper Rhine, and to retire
, w concert behind the Danube. This precipitate
' m , OV C mC r nt " k alt to the approach of a column <
of the Frcnch army of the Rhine toward. Dunau- the
; efching, whence it will probably proceec to Ulm, of ;
witha vevv of cßtting off their let.eat. Yefterdav Oiir
general Kleber at ihe head of hi, two divisions',' hee
matched from the vic.nity 0 f this tow,, and has al- ! A
ready icachcd Afchaffcnbourg, .whence he is to n *
• r; c h c a to *£' c
Jt out for Berlin with h^
m7nced Tl" mbardmi;nt of Eo Ul gft f i n lom
i« ;hcturnip eC ° m " ,Ued rt ° m to nine -,hi
w^J»6-6is3®SsKSa®aMßlresS*^6s^ifi*llfallowing deeifioii ia eur court of appe»!«. Its pob,
ication m.yferVe todiflipate apprehenGon* excited
% r t he comments of those who appear to have to
tally mistaken the fubjeft.
Al.xANDcr Hamiltsm, E/t-i" behalf}
of Anthony Amsloo, and otters, 1* the
pet it onerj, fir the admifjion »f an ap- court »/
peal from the Admiralty Court of the . ArrcAL|
State of South-Carolina, condemn,ng the ,
Shop Chcfter, her apparel and cargo. m CASM
v«. of
The oivnti J, majlets and mariners, of tlx pturi:
BYigt. Experiment, iS the Mngantme
Fair American.
THE C»urt having considered the evidence and
argument* adduced by the counsel for the petition
ers and refpondentsare of opinion, that there is not
j.jiScient cause to admit the appeal of the petition
ers from the decree of the court of admiralty in
lhe state of South-Carolina condemning the (laop
Chcfter her apparel and cargo. If the appeal
ftould be admitted, it must be on this principle, that
there had been such irregularities in the proceedings I
a that justice and right required, that the cause I
should be reheard in order to da that jultice here,
hich had not been done in the court below. The I
( regularity suggested is, that the captor* did not I
kring or fend the mailer of the captured reflel in I
order to be enquired of touching the property Btc. I
ji ,ir prodace the document mentioned by the matter I
in his protest, and that for want thereof a con- I
' mnation had taken place. However blameable
i t captors may have been in omitting to fend or I ,
! ing the matter before the admiralty court, and in I
not producing said document, such omifiion alo.ne 11
not fufucient to set aside the dccree arid rehear j .
t :caule, unless it appeared that substantial justice I '
11 j been thereby prevented.. In thas cafe upon an I j
imination of ?11 the evidence produced, it appears I
it the condemnation of the (loop Chester must
r re taken place if the fame evidence had been of- i'
td in the admiralty court. Peter Theodore Van- |
t engen appeals to have been a merchant in a Bri- I
i i settlement in the Bay of Honduras I *
laving a tranfiant refidence,but carrying on trade f
m that settlement like other inhabitants. It is
ii..c material to whom his natural allegiance was due, I V
h was enjoying the privileges, and fubjedt to the 1
i . anvenitnees of other merehents residing in the '
le place. The (loop Chester appears to liavf I 3
n a British vessel poffelfed of British papers. v
•chafed by Vantylengen and employed by him • r
1 although he might have executed a.b'ill of sale I v
c her to certain fubje&s as the United Nether-
ds with whom the United States were at peace I !
ud amity, for the pnrpofe as he expresses it of pre- I
'ting "her being taken. Such a t/ansfer cannot
■ considered as bona Jide, but from the tenor of the J
ructions of the said Vantyfcngcn to the matter I "
- the sloop, that transfer appears to have been in- I
ded Merely to, deceive and cover 'under the nafhe I
a friend, praperty which ought to be Considered J !"
hat of an enemy. Examining the protest made jls
v the master of the sloop Chester it does not ap. n !
ir that he was prevented by the captors from go- I V 1
;to Charleston, but on the contrary, his going 31
■ (bore at St. Euftatia, upon the privateers leaving j w
it place, seems to have birrn in confrtjucnce of his J --
'<> foliciration. Foi these rtraions the coUrt do I
t admit the appeal of the said petitioners; and it j m
considered by the court that the petition be dif- I w
ilTed ; but as some irregularities on the part of I .
e captors have given colour for the petition, the
'•curt do not award coll* to the respondents. J "
CYRUS GRIFFWi w
GEO. READ, tr
JOHN LOWELL. m
New-York, 3d of May, 1787.
—. I br
Mr. Fsk NO, th
I SHOULD suppose Mr. Swanwick, or his I °}
ends, would think it necessary to give a reason or
< apology for his vote in eppofition to a meafirt-e,
the adoption of which, be himfelf confeflTed the so
J ety of the conftitutton and the peace of the U
ed States depended—He will be pleased to fay, P c
tether he did not declare, that Mr. Muhlenberg P r
d saved this country by a vote directly in oppofi. I ra '
>n to that given by himfelf—He dare not deny ed
t us fact. ; I fu
Whether the measure was really a proper one;
as it refpeAa Mr. Swsnwiek'a dcrlararion wholly
imaterial He thought it was essential to the in
and enftence of eur government, and yet
ited agamft it. ' toi
I will net fay that the vote was procured by cor
iption, but every idea of attachment to the coun- th<
y was certainly facrificed-What must every man tOL
I and feel who 'his, and uho is either by unl
eftton or birth an Ameriean ?
A PENNSYLVANIAN.
1,1 Eh
BY THIS DAY's MAIL. j •
NEW-YORK, O&ober 4. I but
e following particular* are extracted from Ja
«aica papers, handed to us by captain O'Con- &3
■or of the barque Neptuae.
KINGSTON, August 17.
, Coo s* failed from P<»rt-Rayal him
Wdaymorn.ng, with twelve French officers, chie
-l' V /T™; fn K? ,e ' fi>r C *P e Francois, capt
tnJ . Canda ® rr " ed « Royal late Mo,
Balir y r ,r m ° ? ' dif P a,ch « general sent
S tfjXirr r T 2 {cw days before
""S b ," ! '
appear, that hois and another port had expe. turec
:d an incefTant attack fur some days, and th P Jt
Hemy occupying a height from which they numl
f«ccef«fully annoy our for«es, a line of battle The
vas indispensably necessary to cover the troops hid
ir attack on this post and the position of ,h! attac
i nti army. Our loss has been verv triflln f
that of the enemy has been co»f,derable ; up- the™
of 80 white men from Aux-Cayes have fali en s aid
djnerent actions.
hundred fre<h troop* have arrived at Iroi, on ? b
be Mole ; and there 11 not the lead appre- thcri
8 pnb- henfion that the enemy can succeed. We are sorry
xcited to add. that general Bowyer has been wounded in
ive to- the bread.
Extradt of a lettei from Jcreniie, dated Aug. 21.
" It is now 15 days Cnce our camps have been
: the attacke.l ; perfusded that being accustomed to con
rt »f lUfr>1 Ufr > would (till ensure U3 victory, our hopes were
lAtf realised in the eastern quarter, and the enemy were
asis com pl <te ') r beaten at Post Raimond. This success, ;
as complete as could be hoped for at an advanced i
"J post, only cost u* two white men, and to the bri
rußS: gands, 200 men of all colours. Rigaud, without •
any success, laid siege to the camp of Irois for' 15 <
•e and w ' t ' l * co ' vmn situated 011 the hill called Ma
ition- I r ' e ou^e » and another npon that of Madame Lu
ii not ca3 ' woll ' c ' have adted properly to have left c
ition- ' to dispirited through chagrin, since neither i
tr'ln t ' ie ' r canilon " or 'hcif bombs produced any effeift 5
n but the impatience of our chicfs, was, unluckily, of
I great service to our enemy. The dependency per
that 'hst a decisive victory in this quarter would,
dines or a ' on 8 t,me > &' ve psaee, had found plenty of
cause I o ' < " er, > * s we " a ® individuals, in a candition ta
here earr y arms. Those who by their age and their
The I e( ®pl°y ment could be excused from carrying them, 1
d not I w '^ ed eren to ave 'hcif ftiare irt the laurels which
Tel in I t ' lc ' r helieved would be gathered Under the {hade us
. j the crest of general Bowyer, who had decided, that
lafter arm 7 collected at Ance de Nault and L'lflet,
con I should march in twp column*, and that M. de Se
eable I vra y' c °f®andant at Irois, should go out of the
nd or I fort with 400 men, to make the third coltimn.— .
nd in I L'lflet set out at nine o'clock at night, to
alone I to ,a ' ee lts so as to flank the wood.—
■hear I wcre l 'P on t^e tnar; ' l with a field piece at twe
lftice I' n l h e niorning, and at fix wc were in fight as the
enemy. M. d'Anglade, who commanded the co
lutnn from L'lflet, began the fire.
" General Bowyer iVconded him briskly, by be- P
nof i £' nnln K his site sooner than he wished, as our black
y an I troops were (truck with a panic, and had deserted .
Bri 1 rf S u ' ar troops, leaving them exposed to the
jare- I fircof the enemy. General Bowyer, in or- ,
rade I der te an ' lDa,e 'he troops, appeared on foot at the
It is I ' lead ,roo P* > hut being immediately after .
due I wounc ' hy a ball in the left bieaft, he was lerced '
1 the Ito ' e#ve 'he party, and to order a retreat, feeing 01
1 the I , ' lat ne K rot ' s w h® dragged the field-piece had
have a h an doned it. Alt tlie officers that wcre wounded
s were luckily brought off, and geiicrsl Bowyer re- '
ii™ • I his horse, being happily 'only very slightly u
sale I Monf. Sevray, having carried two out
her- P*^ B > ret ' rt d in gojd order. He was likewise
eace I woun^ec '» hut very (lightly."
I Extract of a letter from the fame pL.ce, dated Au
-5 g u R«. "
•t j I " The biave general Bowyer has (hown himfelf "
liter I worth X t ' ,e P ' ie hald*. He is belaved by eve- 1
1 in- I P cr '° n- woun d create* no fear of danger. {?'
artle JWe are going to aim all the negroes wc can, and , c
cred jwe llivc t,le g reate(l hope* from that step. There '
lade | " 110 rea '® n 10 doubt, that if our two geneiah had
a P*' I n °' ' seeß woun ded, we (hould have had a complete
_ I vi<ftnry, in particular over those who were repulled
tine lat t ' ie cam P and the camp of Centre,
r ; ' with the greatest vigour.
his I ." s c hooner Fidelle i* sent down express to
do J to demand assistance, as well to the c«m
dit ■""I 10 / 6 "10 thc , general, for a ship of the line, U
dif- I w " lc " wou ld be of the greatest confcqucuce to us. ''
of In consequence of the pie Sag demand 6f the
the j '", ablUnt ' of Grande Anfe, the commodore will I '
J fail from Port-Royal on Sunday morniDg for Ifeis,
I with the Cormorant, Jamaica and Undaunted, and
I transports under their canvoy, having on board 300
1 men.
I Polly and Phdtbe touched at Curracoa, and
j brought from it colonel Vandabels, commander of Tl
the land force*, hi* wife and three children. Ten
his °. tl,ef °fi«rs quitted the place nearly at the fame
or tune, for different English illand*.
rt-e, So completely has the French fadtion, in that un- am
the f° rtanate colony, triumphed over all good order and tw
U. fuoordinatton, that these gentlemen, finding their E ,
• ay( pofls no longer tenable with honobr or fafetf, rery Tf
erg P ro P cr 'y abandoned them. At the head of « large fro
sfi. roafs, which the fraternifing miscreants had organif. ter
:ny ed, the national cockade, and an oath to be faith- for
ful to the French republic, was universally tender- Tf
ne, , ' ac companied with every ait of insult and vio- bet
illy I<nc «» and left them no other alternative than light, eut
in " WONI'EGO-BAY, Aigdi/, ttr
...Di^TfifsS2f.r 1 "'"" ' b,lti " Br
or- A confirmation of the'defeat of the French in oft
m- thei '' a "ack on Iron, is brought by a veflel which the
an touched at Aux-Caye*. Thc lof* it lUted a* very the
by unfavourable indeed." '
Lr . BOSTON, September 17. wh
I E*traß of a letter from Charlefltn of the 11th Stb. BO t
I _ timber % that may be relied on • , s ou
11. Y c "y at time it a* healthy as has been woi
, known for many years, the fever has taken off many, —"
but few sick at thi* time."
£ y tk ' Mmmt Jfabella, Capt. Drift el, arrived at uj
the Fort. J ,
Th f-r^ G u 3m ') Augnft 31. °£j
The difpatche* brought by Jieut. Mann, and by f OO ,
.1 him conveyed immediately ro the commander in An
s, chief, were put on board tb. Port Royal, by the X
'• M Pta J" Ugicienne frigate, in the offing
e Monday.— The Magicienne was from Gibraltar', and re fii
il sent by general O'Hara to give notice to the <ro- 1
ternors m the Weft-I„dia iflanda of a rupture hL °
n ing taken place betwen the Powers of England and cart
„ Spain, fhe.s said likewise to bring information of pier
- the vSpan.fh forces, foiong fi«ce collefled before Gi- L
I braltar having attacked that fortrefs and been com
pletelyrepulfcd The frigate on her passage ca p- £
; T, e h d "V 7 ?P a " ft <hip and sent her into one the
t -of the windward .(lands, part of her crew (to the
f number of fifty) fl, e p „ t on board the Port-Royal. Exti
e Ihe above 1, a recapitulation of all the intelligence ci
' «tlck° r-V I by her ~ but b y man y pcfons the to
attack on Gibraltar is thought to be falfe, that a
, fmmidable camp has been formed before the plate, dron,
- h«e,.l,ttfe doubt of. The Spanift (hip take'n, is Dm
fk° ff p ? lt * confequent-e, her Affil
fl " P . Ure ' 3 effea of her having a French cargo fr.Va,
" ,0 bt 'l»° 'da
no foundation foi believing a ivpunc ha* peop
any taken place, yet the report has wrought so muck >i
:d in ps« thefninds of the people of this town, thai pri
vateering i's univerfslly talked thedif
-21. patches ef the commander in chief contain intelli
been gence of so important a nature, it is hoped he will
con. not keep them long a secret.
were Passengers in the Sophia, Mr. M'Lecn, and Mr.
were Pinto In £li2a, Mr. Hewett.Mr. Kennon, Mr.
cess, Shetall ; Mr. Salom, Mr. Steele ; Mr. Richard
iced fori and Mrs. M'Neill.
bri- The brig Eliza, spoke his Majesty's ship Canada,
lout and Leviathan, off Monte-Clarifle, and was inform
- 15 ed they had taken a large ship, laden tvith Lalb
Ma- India goods.
Lu- A foreign schooner with dry-»ords, ff>.*cie, ice.
left on board, from St. Jago de Cuba for Campeche, put
ther into this port yellerday, having fprunjr a leak.
; ■ "■ ■ ■ 1 —
, of
per- gjzsttk of the vmtbd STytTKt Marine list.
uld, •" 1 I 1-
irof P HI L At> £ L P HI A, Ofiobers.
1 to
heir ——— ,
em, Brig Olive Btartch, Etheridgei Sutinath Jo •
,ich Alexandria, Clark, Gonaives -I I 1
eof « CLEARED.
hat |h.? South Carolina Carman, ' Charleston |
S * r - Welsh, N. Carolina ,
Se- Slw P£" k ' St. jßartholemew'a
the Wifliam, White, Norfolk
K f H 2 c , r » Glazier, arrired at Cowc# from (
to Philadelphia in 35 days.
Ship Philadelphia, Bliss, is arrived at Bristol. {
, w# The brig Mary, Fltming, from Brest, is io tie l
river. c
CO- ? hri ß V ' ,rdflt T, from Hamburgh, is r
arrived at the Fort, ia 60 days. Came out in com
be- P a °y WUh ', he *»: Mar y» Parker,for Philadelphia,
.ck and AmiabU. Tilhoghaft, for Cadiz. Left there, f
ted J 1 ? 8 , Ent "P r ' lC, l BacehH '' Ana Mary, Twe
the tn f n . ' at ch and JLibertjr. j «
or- ~A b[, S' fu PP efd «° be the Denye Prove, frorh •
t j le this pott, was going in. 2
■ eI Off the Capes, spoke ,he ship Favorite, Thomp-- c
:ed '60 days from Liverpool, in company with an
other, name unknown, both standing in, r
ia( j Off the Weftem Hies, wa3 boarded by the De
led cade and Nero, fiench frigate., of 44 guns, who r
re- had » k « »» knfhfh Eaft.lndiaman, and three va
tiy luable Portugueir prices.
,fe By Authority.
H The following letter from Mr. Danaldfon, dated f'
at Leghorn the id of Jaly l a st, (hows that the mea
elf [, urc * ,a k en t0 a treaty between the United
(c States and Tunk, had not then succeeded. It is
rt. P"Wifi)cd for It; purpjfe cxpreffed in the letter it
n(J felt. It is alio in be noted, that 110 treaty has yet
, re been made with Tripoli. 5
ad Co t>3 »/ * '"'V frvm Jofiph DtmiUfon, U Stephen
;te Cathahn, Ci,jul of the United States at Mar
ed J " Ue . s ' dared Le £ iorn July 2, 1796, and received B
tt the Debarment of State. c
' , Si
to . * his momen( am informed by letter from Tunis,
nis, That the American Schooner Eliza, Samuel
IC) Graves, ha. bten sent in there by one of their pri E
'> contrtry to an arrangement made by me in d<
1 November lalt, and which will not expire URtil the
■jj Bth'of this wftaot. y
j s You will do well to caution rtiy eountrymen
J againtt the cruizers of Tunis and Tripoli.
, 0 Signed, JOSEPH DONALDSON, Jun.
fa
id NATAL JSNQAGEMSNt. B
of The following extnft is copied from a London hc
paper oi July 30, 1796. tu
»« ExtraS if a lette: frtn Meant, June 31. be
•« The beginning ,f this month » most terrible of
n- and obstinate battle was fought near Corsica.be- he
id tvieen aA Alge'rine lover and two Neapolitan sri- vc
,r j°. ined by one ef the Pope', garda c«ftas. W£
T Iht ad ion was feve e, long, and bloody j'it lasted P r
'« from tea o'clock in 'he merning till four in the as- *'
f- ternooa, without iniermiflton ; the combatanta were
for a long time wthin pistol shot of each other,
r- Ihe piiate fufW much, being mod of the time
J- between an ince&ut and well direited Are, which
t. eut away great part of their rigging, and ma de
ternble havoc asnrtigft the men 1 yet the ruffians 1,531
' fought with an uncommon degree of desperation Ut
and attempted mrny time, to board, but were as 8
n oftenl rcpulfed with great left. The captain and all 6f
n the officer* were killed in the heat of the action— ' ,r
jr the former had both his legs taken off by a chain- wi
scot, a. he was firing a bltindrrbufs, yet the barba- tur
rian refufed to be taken from the deck, and died hai
whillt giving the word of conmand. Thi. loss did hai
not ia the leafl intimidate tie terrible erew, Who for
fought likefurie., swearing in variom tongue, they dei
n would cot Itrike while a mat or boy was last alive
' 77 1 !i C Christian, were e q ,, »'y "bftinate, and foujrht
like liens throughout the whole confiift.and shew
ed great bravery and fkilUthey wet. to a man ful- . J
' ly determined to conqucr or die. UnUskily one
of the frigates, which bote the great eft ftref. in the wai
adion, took fire, and ia spite of every exertion hi '
' f ° on } lew U P» w hen noil of the crew perished' Tcfl
' Another misfortune pefented itfelf a fli.rt time a " d
' after > whifh »»» the iof. of the Pope - , erttizer j OCi
' wh-ch w„ funk by the enemy', (hot, after a gallant me ;
' 'U T' 110 tl " ! CtUit 'T thc ot,lcr '-v,, _ 1
■ obliged ts be towed away, leaving the Alucrine like Lc<
a leg upon the water, having her f yr < and mainmast
carried away by the board, and her hull so much bo 1 a
pierced and (battered, that it wa , a l mo st impcffiM,. f^fr
'LY { ? C \ A, S ier< —The pirate fought ""P
nder the bloody flag, and mount.d 34 gun., be- ~C
Gd«* patteraroe. } the frigate, bad 20 gun. each, k ffelt, t
the rope a 1 aruizer 10, and 8 swivels."
— ' ottl
Extra* of a letter from the Capt. of the brig Cin- deI F
cinnatus, at Halifax, dated the 10th September, 8
to Mr. John Gardiner, the owner in this c ity. Pro
lam detained here by admiral Murray's fqua- tow '
dron, being ,ent in on account of failing from a S
Dutch coleny ; the brig j. not yet libelled. The cenl
Aflil.ance eaß , e l, ere yeiUrriiy with a French Rhc
• frigate taken by the squadron. When my vessel is
" '! 4 Bostos, September 25-.
pn Arrived, brig T»y, WVoUbcrry, Cowee, J
' 5 3 days. Jniy 261 faiW from Cawcs for Apirte .
tclli- dam, (hip Arcthufa, M'Cowsn, of Philadelph t
will 27th, do. brig , Pike, of Boston. A .
6, lat. 47, 30, long. 10, spoke the India* Ch':f„
Mr. 20 days iiom London for Madeira. S<;pt. 3, c »
Mr. the banks of Newfoundland, was boarded from cm
ard- Enghfli frigate,,ari3 treated politely. Left at Covu!o
(hip Phcenix > and brig , Shephard of Boi^
ada, ton, Iwo Brothers, Newhal!, St. Martin's,
>rm- days, brig Ann, Lord, Berbice, 37 da-ysi Saile>»
Ult and for 10 days continued in co, with capt. Bowlu,
ia a schooner, bound to this place. Left at Serbicrv
kc. capt. Stetson of .Boftbn.
P Ut ~ 2 ®' Arrived brig Sipfouri;,
Mahast, Gaaialoupe, 22 days. Four after
— .ailing fell in with, and was boarded fjyrina French
privateer—the capt. carried on privateer
- . with the brig's paper, dripped, forchedi and treat
ed very iL—in the mean tirpe the vessel was piun*
dered of mimy small articles-. Ship Harriot, Clout
«an, London, 57 days. Spoke nothing but what
nas arrived* Expected the Galen and Minerva)
19 would fail soon after. Snow Mary, Smith, Ma
riegalante, 24 days. Left; at St. Thomas's brig
Jon k 1 - T,n Q T' °J Newbur yP°.rt. to fail September 7,
l° a . hT \ Samu<:l . Seymour, of Hartford, to fail Sep-
X r 5- u Lat - 4?' !o "K- 70, 40, spoke brig
oik ]en " Y ' V abnesf ' Sene « al for YoVk. Lat
om l°'Jr 0 " g - 6 S'°°' the a,rn e<l fchooncr,
Charhcs Mary, Ktd:ton, from New-York, bound
to Halifax. Sept. 24, lat. 42, 3?>
lpolte brig frannah, Dent, from Portland, out 2
hours.
its f Minerra, Turner, 19 dayi f rom Sondon^
; m . WM P 2tt ' Ut - 4 8 ' 30,
re! f Atlantic of Bollbn, 3 day» f, om Portland
we T?X ,ra> T f P ° ke If". 43. 67,
The Three Brothers, Smnh, of Portland, 27
jfh '' 3 , Norfolk for London, wai spoke Aug.
24, lat. 47, 30, long. 33.
A schooner from Boston for Trinidad, was spoke
'P Sept. 28. r
ln The Mary, Swett, of Newburyport, was to leav«
Londony for Sept. i;
, C Ihe Tryal, of New-Bedford, paff-d through th*
Dort-ns, Aug, 6.
, Th« P ""y Portland, 22 d4ys frotn Rhode-is.
laud for Londdu, was spoke, Aug. aI, lat. 40,
leng, 36. r '
r 2 h r e American ef Bolton, 0 day, from NoT
felk for Dublin was spoke Sept. 9, lat. 35,
long. 72. y
»• The Hoop Prefidcnt of Boston, was spoke 5,» 4
\ u tember U. v
is
Ship Yoang P.,k:,n, LiVfrpool
en Port Mary,
r , tj ° h '°' M ' La^ n - Greenock S t
<d Barque Neptune, O'Corinor, Js7naica «
Kloep Sifters, , s , c • *
Schr. Clara, Lefoomb, BoutdtaU* 6>
u Ship America, Woodward, is arrived at Cowes,
el Capt. Eefcomb from Bourdeaux met tie ftiio
I Diaua, of this port, going the river te Bour
-111 deaux as he came out;
ie Mr. Printer,
Your publifting the following may oblige some cf
:n yeur reader! who have admiralty causes depend
ing in England.
_ Thebri g antine Maryland, John Stran, mafler.
(ailed from Baltimore in >Uiguft J793, bound to
Bordeaux, loaded with coffee. In prosecution „f
, n herbage on the coast of Europe, ftie was cap.
tored by the letter of marque, the Prince of Wale,,
belonging to Liverpool, and the captain, instead
u of ordering her to the heareit port for trial, s ent
c her to Montferat, in thc Weft-Indie., where the
j. veffe and her cargo were condemned. An appeal
, was lodged and ha. terminated favorably for the
d proprietors at appears from the following copy of
r- * Ict L ter from lhe proftpr employed by the agent*
e ot the owners m the above cafei
r . " sriT 7 council chamber, July 16, 1796.
e " The Maryland, John Stran, master.
h "Gentlemen,
e «• 1 have very gieat pieafure in informing you of
t ray having to-day abtained a reversal gf ,he f en .
~ U " B * of condemnation of this veflel and carr o , ard
g a decree of the lords of appeal for the refHtUtion
II ? f ra ™ e » or the value thereof, «nd their
4. l9rd ">'P» have reserved the question of costs and da
. ma 8 e » un!il '' fta'l be ascertained whether the cap
_ ture was made by a privateer or by a merchant (kip
i having a letter of marque. I have no doubt of its
3 having been made by a privateer, and have there
, ' orc c? « 7 expectation of getting thc captor con.
demned in costs and damages.
'• I am, &c.
' (Sighed) " CHAS. BISHOP."
Captain Stanwood, arrived here from Leooanr,
. inform,, tnat on his piffle from New-York he
. was taken on the 13th July and carried in there
> ft- 0 ) 3 j g ° ' a!ten frolh h ' ra by tlle adl "' n 'ftration, and
veflel detained 50 days, during which time his mate
. and all hit hand, died. He was obliged to pay ten
joes to get his reflel clear, without receiving pay.
ment or security for his cargo.
( Fifteen or fix teen American vessels were lying f n
, Lcogane, their cargoes taken out, vefTels under con
demnation, maftert and fupertrargoes confined on
boara and not allowed to go on (hore to take ar.V
refreftment, or tb seek redreft, on pain of beini
impnfoned in a dungeon. . ,
Capt Stan wood left the "following American vef.
iel, in JLeogane on trial— '
Bngt.—Glafgow, Codwife, New.York } Clisr
lotte. King, ditto ; Experience, Huftinr, Pbila.
aelphia ; Indußry, Merley, Baltimore.
Sc h oonert.--;Juno, Burgess, Boston < Bride,
Probert, Philadelphia ; Alethra, Ham, George
town, South Carolina.
Sloop,.—Delia, Hoggins, Philadelphia j Sin- .
au Vrn j ' J° anna » Hunter, Providence,
Rhode-Island.
A N T E D, "
An APPRENTICE to the Prirting Bufinefi.
Enquire atthis Office Aug. ?For Sale, - J'
A Three (lory BRICK HOtTSETm4 J-ot, in Chefnut
jl V street, between' Front and Secor.d {&»<ts, in which Have 1
' ; MeEr«. James Calbraith «c Co.-.have for many years (and
110 v: do) carried on business. A geHei
Poffcflion will he given in one month, or sooner.
: For terrtis apply to WILLIAM BELL) or TJRO
HECTOR CALBRAITH. £> pj.
§ Rose
—— FLA
RICKETTS's jjfi
Amphitheatre of Arts. ind
r © THE public. Co ™
IMPRESSED with the most lively gratitude for psft Q'ng
favors, Mr. Ricketts returns his most sincere thanks entl "'
to the people of Philadelphia, for the kind patronage and . be P t
liberal encouragement they have hitherto (hewn him,
and again folic its "their attention for the>enfuirtg feafos.
He takes this opportunity of informing the Ladies and 0R
Gentlemen of this City, that the Amphitheatre -has jin- dc
dergoae a complets >and. alteration since the lalt cent f r(
season, (orfan original plarf<*f his ewn) so as to make it
■aerfe&ly convenient for a nufticrous audience; and or-
lamented, in the most superb style, with SCENERI ,
DRESSES and DECORATIONS, entirely new.
He allures the public, that no pains nor expense what-
everhave been spared, to render it one of the most beau
tiful places of public amusement of the kind here or in
any part of Europe. # '- 2000
The public are further informed, that the Amphitneatie
of Arts will open on the evening of the toth oi October, _
1796. The particulars of thfe entertainments of that
evening wili ke announced in the different daily publica- f
tioris. J' B * R * Z.
September 28. % eo - 6^o
Valuable Real Estate, ingj*
For sale at Audion by Casper Thiell, of Hamburg, f or#g{
late the property of fames and William Kmnear. torefi
For sale by public audion.on the 9th day of November '; n t he
next ensuing, at the sign of Gen. Walhington, Wood s j n {hj
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county, the follow- rhi
ing real eftate,viz. contir
\ TRACT of land containing 46ja*rcs with ma y 1
I. allowance for roads,called the Pnrchafe, south
fiuated in JJrunfwick townlhip, Berks county, patented, e[s m
18th 0' Jan. 1788 This trail, of which about 15 acres Da
arc cleared, is of good foil, lituated on the 1 ©r
Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, on which is
ereiled a good log dwelling house and stable.
No. 2. A trait of unimproved U nd, containing 284 a
cres, with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patented 18th —-
C&ober, 1790, lituated in Bruttfwick townlhip, Berks
coHnty, foil good .
No. 3. A trail of unimproved land, containing 376 a- n ,
cres with allowance, See. called Hillfburg, patented 38th JX.
Oilobtr 1790, situation, &c. as No, 2. TAV
No. 4. A trail ®funimproved land, containing 388 a- c ; t y ,
cres, with allowance, &c. patented 28th of OAober, J7S6, T j
situation, &c . as No. 2 and 3. daily
No. 5. A trail of land, containing 168 acres, and 57 t0I1)
perches, with allowance, &c. lituated in Brunfwick town- merc
(hip, Berks county, on Tomagua, or little Schuylkill, J andi
miles above the town of Hamburg, on which is ereded a T ,
well finiftied two flory squared log dwelling house, 22 of F
feet by 35, within-the distance ofioo perchesfrem a forge, w ;u
with the advantage of a ferry and public house; these ad- q
vantages render this trail very valuable. _ the <
No 16. A tovVn lot in Hamburg, enclofcd with a pod
and rail, or board fence, containing in front, 60 feet, and -j
in depth 18a feet, fubjeil to a ground rent of Jf6 per an- p ro(
num. L
No. 17. A town lot ift Hamburg, enclosed asno 16, to acco
which it adjoins, being of the fame dimensions, andfubjeil hnn
to the fame ground rent, on which is creiled a 1 log stable, te^
16 by I* feet • " at tl
No. >'8. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No. 17, -j
a corner lot, fronting on Main and Schuylkill streets, <li- the
mentions the fame as No. 16 and Tjj, above described, sub- re q,
jeil to ic/o per annum ground rent. On this lot is er-
ciled a large 2 story dwelling house, 45 feet front on Main exe(
street, by 34 feet in depth on Schuylkill street, pleasantly ; ar £
and adyantageoufly situated for a {lore. him
N. B. The above described three town lots will be fold p cn
separately or together, as may best nut the jjurchyfers. ing
Conditions of sale—-One third »l the purchase money j
to be paid to the fubfenbers, or either of tflera-in'PKifadd- ' - _
phia, at or before the expiration of one month frpm the
day of sale, when a deed of conveyance will he executed ;
the refiduepayableinaequalpayrrtents-at6 *2 months
with intereft,the payment whereof to be fefured by mort
gage on the premises. * of
James Henderfon, Affigneesto P"
Frederick Mtntmollin, the estate of 1
ThomaSßogers, James Ac Wm. 28
Joseph D. Drinker, Kinnsar " g
September z6. ta &th. p U
u-u.
Treasury Department, :
September 28, 1796. „
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re- ,<
ceived a', the office of the Secretary of the Trcaluty j «
until the of the firfl: day of March next en- «
for the supply of all rations which may he required «
for'the use of the United States, ffom«the firft day of <1
June, 1797, »o the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both «
days inclusive, at.the places and within the diftriils htr«- u r
after mentioned, vii. At Ofwcgo; at Niagara; at «
Pjcfquc lfle; at Sandulky Lake, and on Sandtriky ..
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank- <1
lin i at Pittlburgh ;at Cincinnati; at ; «
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon; at Grenville; at «<
Picqne Town and Loramies Store; a* Fort Adams; at
For* Wayne; at Fort Defiance; at any place b«low Fort /,
Defiance on the Miami River to Lalt£ Erie; at tort
V St»ub«n 5 at Fort Maffac ; at any place from Fort Malfac .fc
to the south boundary of the United States.on the. river p,
Miffifippi; at Fort Knox ;at Omatanen. a
If supplies lb all be required for any posts or places not ; a
mentioned irt this notice, all such supplies ftiall be fur- g
nilhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed ofl /
between the United States and the ContraAor.
The rations to be supplied are to confilt of the fol
lowing article?, viz. . - h
One pound two ounces of bread or flour. ,
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of jj
J>otk or bacon. b
Half a gill of rum, brandy cr whiskey. ~ v
One quart aad half r. pint of _ p
T-.vo quarts of ( hondrcJ a
Two pounds of Mis, I ' n
One pound of Caru'ies s I
The rations are to he hirniflief in fcch quantities, asthat c
there ft all at alj times the laid term, be lufficient I
, for the consumption of the troops r.t MicKHimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, andOfwego, far the term us C* mohthu in
ad vance, and at each of the other for the tcrmVif
at least three months in advance, in good wholcfomi <-
-jiroVifions,if fhcfame lhall be required.. !t is to bhODr'
dcrllood, that the" Contractor isto iic atjhixjrjMca and
riPs cf itVllirg the fupplUs to the troops it each p.ift, and •
•hat all loffcs sustained by the depredations of an enemy, ot J
by means of the troops of the United (hall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or detlroyed, -
■hd depofitioos of two or more perform of cwAtable ch :-
railers, and the certificate of a ccmmiflicncd officcr, af
ter taloing the circumftanccs of the Iof», sad the amout
of tb-, ai tides fcfcv. hich compensation Oiall be claimed.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
; 1 Secretirj of cbe.Treaf*tv.
•
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co,
No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late vefleis trotn Europe, See.
AND HAVE 10R SALE, *
A geHeral aflbrtmeht of GOODS, to tic .e .on 1 ici
Amongst which are, All'
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS, _
Plain and twill'd COATINGS, tat^s
Rose striped and point BLANh.£TS, e P
FLANNELS and B AISES,
HATS affortsd in cases, cr>T
IRISH LINENS, obi
INDIA GOODS, goneratly, . ...
A Consigned Invoice of IRONMONGER >
Comprifmg a capital affohment to open a
ding Thirty Casks of NAILS. This invoice will b. fold A ,
entire on very advantageous tcrm6. dwe
September ao. —
Lottery
FOR railing fix thohfand fix hundred and fiity-feven
dollars andfifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
. centfrom the prizes, ind not two blanks to a prize, vifc
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
j 1000 1000
i . ,JOO 500
c 200 ICCO
■ 20 ICO . ' '
• 99 JO 4950
2000 ip . 20,000 r 5) ,
5 Last drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, jooo
' , ITS,'
2332 Prizes. 44)450 •
•4018 Blanks.
JO,'
63 ?o Tickets at Sievsn Dollars each, „ 4 —
By order of the Qireilors of the Society for ellablilh- N
ing Weful Manufailures, the fuperifctendants of the Pat- Ticke
erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the t 'j c^e(
' Ssheme to the public, and have direaed thM"
to refund the money to those persons who have purchased oj .
r 'in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets any n
s in this Lottery. , Th
The lottefy has ailually commenced drawing, and will vato |
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes -j- wo
b ma y be fe«n at the office o! William Blackburn, No. 64 f r < Dnt
e > south Second street, who will give inlormaticn where tick- is,p
1) ets may be procured. ss fo<
= s Dated this 17th day of June, 1796. them
«- J. N- CUMMING, 7 then
!s JACOB R. HARDENEERG, > Managers. Ane
JONATHAN RHEA, 3 the i
a- dtf eo W ;U
th —■ 1 _ ' ~ Univ
ks Samuel Rrchardet, ti
a- "n ESPECTFULLY informs tke Gentlemen
ih JX. Merchants, that he has this day roened the CITY num
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEIHOUSE in the dran
a " city of Philadelphia: the f
, The Subfcriptioo Room will be furmhed with all the
daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, lew-York, Bos- ing,
57 ton, Baltimore, together with those of th; principal com- r;
n " mercial cities of Europe—They will hi regularly filed 3rc ,
5 and no»ie permitted to he taken away on 3iv account. of ,
a Tea,'Coffee,loupes, Jellies, Ice Crearts, and a variety mou
Of French Liquors; together with the uftal refrefhments, .j.
S e > w ill at all times be procured at the bar. t j, e |
'd- Gentlemen may depend on being accomodated with j_j Qt
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquor., and ,the most a fei
011 - approved Malt Liquors from London ani other hreweries. j )IT
nd Thc Larder will be supplied with the )rime and earliest fr j el
in " pi-oduilions of the Scafoß. jefl.
Large and small Farties, or single Gatlemen, may be
> to I accommodated with Bfeakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at q ( , v
j honrs most convenient to themlelves—a ctld Collation is j. uv
jJe, re gglarly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare tobohad ( j ra ,
at the- bar. caul
J 7">' The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniflied, and
di- the utmost attention paid to cleanlitiefsj aid every other
requisite.
er- gy S-vmuzl RrcBARDETWiII behappyto receive, and
lain eX ecute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
itly large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges Cu(
himfelf that nothing on his part lhallbe wanting to pre- —
[old s erve t {i a t patronage with whieti he hasbeer so diftinguifh
ingly fionored.
"ey Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
dd- I c
t j, e Ai:
;ed; Treasury of the United States.
nths JOTICE is hereby given to il persons who are or
ort- may be Creditors of the UiT.ed States, for any funis
of the Funlci Debt, or Stock, teariig a prtfent iiHereJt of fix
£S to P er cat*™P cr annUm ' L
.„f ift, That pnrfuant to an Ail ofCougrefs passed on the
Vm. »Bth day of April, 1796, intitledm-ail in addition to an B'
ail, intituled " An ad making futher provision for the -
support of public credit, and for he redemption of the
public debt," the faiddebt or ftockwill-te reimbursed and
- 1- paid in manner following, to ivit. " First, by dividends
" to be made oh the lalldays of Ma ch, June and SepteitV- fr
« ber for the present year, and Iromtheyear one thousand
'I fereti hundred andninety-feven, t« the year one thou- _
e re- <c j an( j cight'hundred <Sc eighteen mi J ufjte,at the rate of
I'.'-fy I « on e and one haif per centum upon the original capital,
t en- u Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last. day ,of
lired « December (or the present year, and from the year one
y " thousand seven hundred and ninetT-feven, to the year " l
both « ope thousand eight hundred and fejenteen inclusive, at
aere- u t {j e rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
• at " ginal capital; and by a dividend to le made oa the last
irfky « day of December, in tke year one taoufand eight hun- 16
ank- « <} r eJ and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
ton ; « quate, according to the contrail, for the sinai redemp
• at « tion of the said stock.'
; i 3t ad. All diftin<aion between payments on account of
fr" ort Intercft ar.d Principal beinf thus abolifhec by the establish-
Fort nient of the permanent rile of reimbursement abovs,de- j
taffac . scribed, it has become neeffary to vary accordingly the •
r ' Ter powers of attorney for receiving dividends; th-r public .
creditors wilt therefore olferve that the following form '
,not iseftablilhedfor allpowets of attorney lAich may be
; f" r ~ granted after the due promulgation of this notice, viz. f \
it the KNOW ALL MEN BT THESE PRESENTS, that
d on 1 of
Jo vonjiitute and appoint
ie aj my true andlaivful At- t j
ntc, and in nry name, t» \ccc:ve tb: dividends •which are,
cr Jhali he payable wording to Un6.cn Hit (here deferring the t
ces of Jlanding in my name in the bojes of (here defcribmg the
books of the Treasury or the Commifiioncr of Loans,
where the dock is credited) fret). (here mfert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
Itions attorney is \6 continue) with p<rxvcr also an attorney of
mes under bim,fcribjl purpose to male andfubjlitute y and t» do all
iatvful aQs requisite for effeding tie premises, hereby ratifying and
M that cwtfrtr.ing all that my said Attorney or bisfubfhtvte,fball lawful
licient J of By virtue h;reof. t
c, pt - In hereof, I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal the
V-ht ir. day of in the near
-p-: T'f * Staled and Delivered . «
UCorrift in '
_fi»E If KNOpVN, that on the day of
eg aad tfere mrps/fonalfy a*me
it, and nitbir named znd she above Utter of attorney to be
my, or bis at! and deed. _
JC paid ivberftf I have hereunto fti my Hand *nd ajfx
rd, tiA ed Sea! the day and year lafi afoiefaid.
Ie ch > Given my Hand at Phi&deljJhia, this t'.vexl
ccf-, as- tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to diretfllons
imosifit from th< Secretary of the Treasury.
cd. SAMUEX- MEREDITH,
2"reejmtrr as the United States.
r*sy. |
For Sale, W
A Complete Font of Brevier,
ft*tw
«iX-»' bt <*2, T * tt " s "- «»• ta
Also for Sale, a pair os-Super Royal Chafes. a Can
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the United tomac
States, »19 Chefnutrftreet.' •„ ( , tf
September 27. ■■ -
■ City of Waflrington.
SCHEME of the LOT i ERY, No. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 f ThE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 10,000 dollars, & > jo.ooo
dwelling-house, 5 calh .w.coo, 2re y
I ditto ij,ooo & oa(V»5,o<o0 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10, 000 & c'afl) 10,000 ao,ooo
1 ditto 5,000 & cacti 5,000 10,00®
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5.30° I0 > 000
1 cacti prize of - 10,000
4 do. j,OOO each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000 the
i jo do. 5 00 • " 10,000 Th
> 00 do. 100 - - 10,000 d .
» * 200 do. 56 - • * 10,000 BOt i c<
> ' 400 do. is " ' 10,000 Su(
> 1,000 do. 10 " ao/'oo draw,
' 15,000 do. 10 '•> " 150,000 the b
> _____
16,739 Prizes.
1 •' Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Deliart, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those Who may take a quantity of
* Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn £ J(
: ticket, and the 30,000 the last btt'one :
] And approved note?, securing payment in eitner money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for
s any number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will a.fford an elegant fyecimen of the pri- Nx
vate buildings to be ereited in the-City of V/afiiington— Chin
s Two beautiful defignfc are already feledted for the entire Qui,
* fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings liiap
■ it ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner buildings, JJafta
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convcy ojft
them, when complex, to the fortunate adventurers, in jjand
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery. Roll
» A nett deduction of fivd per tent, will be made to defray Se
the neteffary eipenfes of printing, &c. and the surplus . ~
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National ■«»
University, to be ere&ed within the city of Wafhin'gton. re
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are m
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
" after it is finifhad ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after v e ; n ,
lC drawihg isclofed, are to be considered as given towards\ of t]
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle ; Mo
' e the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw- c
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security. v
l " The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes, * 0 at
are held by the President and two Diredors of the Bank A
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a- —.—
y mount of the lottery.
6 ' The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiflioners assisted in the management of the r
■Jf Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient number
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is htiptd that the 'TTT
friends to a National U.niVerfity and the other federal ob- V'
jeiSts may continue to favor the design. com
By accounts received from the different parts'of the allc
at Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets and
have been sent for sale, the public are allured that thft )ar o
a drawing will speedily commenee, and that the care and dor
caution unavoidably necessary to Insure a fafe disposal of doo
0 the tickets, has rendered the iltgrc ftifpenfion indifpenfaWe. Ny 1
,er SAMUEL BLODGET. ' ar,
»§» Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columliia ; o ove
n James Weft & Co. Baltimore ;of Peter Gilman,. Boston wii
at of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells are;
es Cooper's Ferry. eo COl
re- E !—-
Watson's Answer to Gibbon. ; ng
f —— is a
JUST RECEIVED, pai
— And for lale by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, ma
Apology for Christianity, tZ
im s a feriei of Letters, addrejfed to ' a "
r, x Ebward Gibbon, Esq;. ° at
Author of the History of the Decline and Fall of the ' 10 '
the • Roman Empire: t " c
an By R. WATSON, d. d. f. r. s. Bilhop of Landaff. ' n
the • (Price 75 cents bound.)
the Watfoti's Answer to Paine,
1 ' lilt
To be had at the fame place.
The enemies of Religion are awake .' Let not ber Ai
= j friends Jleep.
an Sept. 1. mw&ftf
10U- r —
Lh NOTICE.
,0j ' I 'HE Subscriber, haying been reduced in his circum
onc .L stances, by sundry misfortunes, and being thereby
year nuahle to fatisfy his jtiil debts, hereby gjive? notice to his t
at Creditors and to all pcrfons concerned, that he intends to 1.
r j_ apply to'the Genera*" Assembly of Maryland at next 7c
l a fl. session to be held on the firft Monday of November nest, fit
for the benefit of an ait-of. insolvency. h(
WILLIAM, EDMONDS ON <h
m p. Eaflon. ift of the (jth month, 1796. lawtillMN 01
t of To be fold, I
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun- I
|(^e " il tyof•Gloucefter, and ftateof New-Jersey, contain
ttic ing about one hundred and fifty acres; a suitable propor
tion oY which is woodiaiid and improved meadow. A
orm great part of the arable laud is in a high state of cultiva-
X tion, and very natural to.the production of Red Clover.
17- On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house, J
' t^et with four rooms on a floor, and a goad dry cellar under ,
the whole ; together with a barn, carn-cribsand carriage- '
heufe. The garden is large, aiid contains a good collec r
' tion of the best kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees ; j
" ar '' the orchard consists of abo*t three hundred grafted apple- '
§ ' trees. ' Any person inclined to purchase said premises, may '
K l he i n f ora i e d of the terms by applying to
oans - ANDREW HUNTER.
com- , ,
/er of J ,
doaii TQ BE Sold,
tg and /it No. izß, North Second-Street, and by several of
rwful- the Apothecaries in this City.
TRANSFERS of the right to remove pains and infhmma
tions from the human body, as secured to Dr. ELISHA
PERKINS, hy patent, with instruments and directions ne
ceffatyfor the practice. This mode of treatment is particu
larly ufeful in re!ie»ing pains in the head, face, teeth, breast,
fide. Jtomath, back, rheumasifms, recent gouts, &c, &c. -
Nalv. ilhltanding the utdity of this practice, it is not pre
y to ie turned but there-are cases in which this and every othei
remedy mjy fomftimes fail.
J affix- l u "~ '• »
tweii- To be disposed of,
;iftions time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
JL has between faur and five years to i'ervs: She
,can be recommended for her iobtiety and horiefly. For
Ww. particulars enquire at No. 131, Chefuut-ftrect.
17- { Aoguft 3. wsc(tf
' 1
%
Washington Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
s "?T THEREAS the State of Maryland hm authorised
f W the underwrittee, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhingtoil, fro.n.th Po
tomacto the Eaitern Branch Haruour.
The following is ihe SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -I Prize of 20,000 dollars, 20,000
1 ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drawn")
, Tickets,each j J >°°° 00 °,
6 ditto 1,000 • 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,0a0
io ditto i(so 1,000
.55 ditto 50 2,750
5750 ditto 12 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,250 -
5850 Prizes, .. t;,s,oco
I *650 Blanks, not two to a prize.;
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Coinmiffionera have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aift for the pun&ual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing ef tins I,ottary will commence, without
delay, as soon •as t'sr Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not dcfnan led in fix months after th«
drawing is finiftied, fliall be considered as relinquished for
the benefit Of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
{Signed ) NQTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, O /D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON, '
THOMAS LAW,
of JAMES BARRy. I
n City of Wa(hingto«, Feb. 11. §
J IVlordecai Lewis
HAS FOR SALE,
■i- NANKEENS, long and (Wt.
" China, well affortcd.
re Quicksilver.
KS Diapers '
gift is.
;r. coißsr- r **•..
H! Bandano Handkerchiefs. T ~ 1
T- ioll Briraftone.
tt y. Sept. 6. tt&fim 1
,"i At a /fecial meeting of the Board of Di
rednm for eJtatWjhing ufeful Manufactures, holden
re at Paterfon, July 8, 1796,
T s ESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock
ite holders of the Society be called orr the firft Monday
* 18 ., being the third nay of Odober next, at Paterfon, by tei
, of the clock of the fame day; then and there to taki
into confederation the propriety of dissolving the fair,
corporation, agreeably to the law m such cafe made am
provided—and the Stockholders are earnestly requsftei
e '> to attend the fai\meeting in person or by proxy.
nk I August 27 dt,;othO
a " For iSaic,
of I A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINISHED
afc Three-story Brick House,
tm J (The late reHdence of General Walter Stewart)
thC ITH a LOT Gf GROUND thereunto belonging,
ob- \ V the weft fide erf Third-street, near UmOn-ffreet
containing in front 32 feet, and in depth 100 leer, to a
the alley leading into Union-ftrcet. The .house is 33 feet front
tcts and 50 feet d£ep ; the feverarrooms contained in it .arc
the hr^ej commodious, andcomplc&ely finifhed; the two fir t
and 1 stories are eacK rt*i~rr-<rx^ 1 -u amiy
I °f doors in the house ; a geometrical staircase, with mahoga-
Me, ny and a good sky-light. Thekitchen is in the eel- •
ar.» which is spacious and conVeaient, and finilhed withatt
i o oven, stew-holes and pantries, a servants' hall and large
ton wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen,, in front of which is; rt
r ells area in which there is a -pump. The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat threc-fh>» Y
I brick*ho«fe, on the north fide ,of Uiaion-ftreet, contour
ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; theloweT part of whic.i
is at present occupied as a compting-houfe, and the upp» •
I part divided into well-finiftied large chambers. Thishouie
reet, I may at a small expense be converted iirto a conveniei c
I dwelling : The street is very handsome, and the front
1 and back have Venetian window-lhutters. Adjeitimgt.
I upon the lot belonging tot the firft, are ered
I bathitig-rooms, &c. There are lifcewife very good coac
• t j lc 1 house and stables finifhed equal (or neajiy l'o) with any
I the city, 011 a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, a
daff. I* n depth 011 the woft fide of said alley 52 feet. There r
' I good cellars unde* the whole of the buildings; and a \vi
I ro#m over part of theftable, with a hay-loft over the:
1 mainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD BONS-.LL Sc Co,
her I At their Office IVO. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut <Sc P
t'&f - street s
ftf I 6<b month 24th, 1796.
" F0 R IE~
;™ y A PLANT A T it) N,
o his A BOUT 12 miles from this City, fitua:te in Abi -
ds to I jLX. ton Township, Montgomery-County ; contain g
next J 70 acres, a new stone house, two stories higVi, 2 rooms e 1
neat. J floor, fire places in each, a stone kitchen and stone ff:
J house, over an excellent spring of water, a barn, stab
I sheds, barracks,* See. A large apple orchard, and a variei . c*.
RMN I other fruit, about 12 acres of good meadow well wate. • .
1 and wood fuflicie«t for fire, and [encirtg the place. Poff-ih
lon may be had the ift of Apiilnext. Property in this • ity
I will betakeu in exchange; or MORRIS and NICHOLSC "TS
coun- I Notes in payment. Erqaire at No. 37, Arch-Street.
ntain-I Philadelphia, September 13, 1796, ttfrf
F 0 ft SALE,
lltiva- I A very Valuable Estate,
house C* ALIED IV ITT F. NHA M, fittate in h
under i townihip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaw y
■ria c- 1 1 " 2 m^es rom Philadelphia, and half a mjle from
collec 1 new e^crnroa(^ '• containing 23® adres of excellent 1 id #
• I w^*c^are good watered meadow, 90 of prime w< xi
app'e- I re ara hle of feha firft quality. There 2 c
•s ma I° n premises a good two story brick house, with 4ro ;i
V 'lon a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump- v
los excellent water in front; a large frame barn, fta} v
J and other convenient buildings; a l'moke-houfe and it >r
. I spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peaciv
I es. The fields are all in clover, except tfiofe immedia
| under tillage, and are so laid fcavc the advanr •
'ral oj I oi water in each of them, which renders k peculiarly c
I venient for grazing.
bmma j he situation is and from thehi ; 1
LISHA cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and
>ns ne- vicinity to the city, it is very suitable, for a gentlem;.
Darticu- country feat.
breast, The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harir
' c - deceased, and offered for fah by
v othci , Mordecai Lewis,
9. tt&r Surviving Executor
law ' ,j tZ _
si.who pr INTED BY JOHN F£ N N
®"• No. II Q
y. For
CH ESNWT-STREET. j
'Fricc Sight liciJuj per 4<w«jb.]