1 « . .y^
I
' #a?ette the mnttetj States, Philadelphia Daily Adfucrtiscv*
huMBER 1265.] WEDNESDAT EVENING, SEPTEMBER 28, 4796. [FoitmfX.
For Sale,
The Brig DIANA, I I
Lying at Chefnut-ftreet wharf; a stout _
well built vessel, one hundred & fifty-eight tons burthen ; 1
well found, and but feur years old. Apply to x ''
Joseph Anthony Es 5 Co. "
Sept. 7.6 ,
T
ior Sale, t O F
. MS, The SLOOP Ut i'
INDUSTRY, m'
•fcgSs® Burthen about 700 bbU. a good vef- fort
..t' fel, and will be ready to take in a car- Si
go in two or three days. Also,
FOR SALE,
A few hhds. ANTIGUA RUM, received by T
laid sloop, and now landing at Morton's wharf. Apply to the
THOMAS GREEVES, No.
Sept. 14. d6t. Np-73, Walnut-street. >
—, lotti
f or Charter, i
Ship Domriick Terry,
Jacob De' Hart, master : an excellent
vessel, 'if about 3000 barrels burthen.
' JeJfe y Robert Wain. T
' September sr. d
j h j£T2_ f or Charter,
Tlle Danini Barque BenevenTUßA,
Samuel Stub, master,
good veflel, of about two _ 0 .
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WAI.N. r (
Sept. 17. dtf j
I FOR LONDON, [■.
f» '>« > CFBl?*y. 1
fail soon:-—Fop or .paflage ~
John Vaughan,
September 10. Front-street.
FOR SALE, J]
&L The fliip STAR, Me
JopN VANKEtIAN, Matter,
Ji T YING at Walnut-street wharf, Philadel- g
1 pbia built, of live oak and cedar, will g
carry about 3100 barrels, is two years old, and in com- j
plea; order to receive a cargo-—For terms apply to c
THOS. Sc JOHN KETLAND. j
Who have also for sale said vefielscargo—consisting of— j
Wine and Porter booties, j
Window Glass, 6 by 8 to 16 by 11. I
Pipes in boxes t
Earthen-Ware in crates. j
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, &c. _ j
Aug. 29 > §_ 1
BRANDY, j—
OF lfl and 4th proof, and equal Bt&alitvW
ed from France, may be bad of the-fdbfCfiTier at Tits Diltil
lery. No. 115, Story or Nuw-itreet between Third and
Hit puolic, uprn application, may
-for rherr.felves* and ill find it an object well ■worth
their attention. P
RUM and GIN i« any quantity, for exportation or .home ~ -
confurnption, and of superior quality "by Xi
Thomas Cave. ' f
P. S RYE, MALT, BARLEY, and. MELASSES, will V
be or taken in exchange for fpuits, upon appli
catvn as above. Also any quantity of Cliiei or other wine
fit tor distillation.
Augurtzgh. '796' M-jw .
" LANDING, 5
1?rom on lioard the Brig REBECCA, Dominic Divine,
Master, at Philip Care's Wharf, and for Sale by the |
Subscriber, . rec
„ London Particular Madeira WI-NE, f™
In Pipes, Hogftu-ads and Quarter Calks. J
There are in the above parcel 10 Hhds. of CHOICE
OLD WINE, fit for immediate use.
Robert Andrews, .
Sept. 6. mw&F No. 86, So. Wharves. ' n
New-irligland Rum,
In hoglhesds,
Welsh's best Boston Chocolate,
And
HYSON-SKIN TEA, in quarter chests,
FOR SALE, BY
A. MARPLE & ISR. W. MORRIS,
V Ho. £©- f
Sept. 24. x co6t -
" John Whitefides & Co.
Have for Sale,
Venetian Red, j
Spanilh Brown, J
White Lead, ground in oik t!l
Shot, • I, 3> 4?. S' ,
- London Porter, in casks and bottles. f -
Green Copperas. c
Several crates of Queens Ware, m setts, with desert ti<
ditto camjilcat. - p
BUftered Steel,
German dittOj ,
o nr daw
Sept- "• — = — ar
To be disposed ot, e
'THE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAW, who &
I has between f«ur and five years to fei ve: hhe,
can be recommended for her sobriety and honefly. I'or
particulars enquire at No. I3 2 > Ghefljut-ltreet.
August 3. — — r
At a fbecial meeting of the Board of Di
rcclcts for cjlahYtjhing ufeful Manufactures, holden
at Putrrfon, 'July 8, , V
RESOLVED, That a fpeciai meeting of the ..toe,t-
Iroldir* of the Society be called on the firit Monday,
being the third ay of October next, at ten
of the clock of the lame day: then and tlpre to take
inio conjideration the propriety of diflolving t c
corporation, agreeably to the law m such ca etna "- 1 --
provided— anl the Stockholders are earnestly rcqusfted
to attend the said meeting in pcrfon or by prosy.
Ansnft 17 dt3GthO_ P
For Sale,
A Complete Font of brevier, p
TrNrirtly ne« .'andyet unopened. The weight of this
. XL font i«about jis lb. It is from the Founciery ol ?
V/ilfoc & Sons, and will be l'olc at cost & charges. ,
A'.. ;for S,.L-, a rair of Super Royal-Chafes. '
lEn.-iuire at the Office of the Gazette of the Lmtcd
States, iio Chefont-ftfcet,
J&eptcinocr
| Thomas Rverfon
HAS just received, by the (hips Molly and Hamburgh -A-
Packet from Liverpool, and the LigJitTiorfe from
Bristol, and is now opening for fnle, at his store No.
177» Market-street, an extenfivc aflortment of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware ~
and Saddlery.
The ship Caroline, now on htr passage from Liverpool -"J
to Philadelphia, brings the remainder of his fall impor
tation.
N. _H. At thr aboTe store may be had, a few elegant *
Mahogany Cases for Table Furniture; also, a good as- *f
fortment of the best kinds of Knives and Forks.
Sept. i.-j. .
Washington Lottery.
The Twenty-second & I'wenty-third Bays' Drawing of
the Wathiagton Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office
No. 434, Marjtet-ftrcct, v.-here tickets may be examined, rp
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be prfljurtd.
Sepcember 2%, Ife6. ■ ' df
' N AYj K. E E N S~ rer
t Of the frfl quality, FOR SALE RY, Oi
RD. and JAS. POTTER.
For any quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, a li- .
beral credit will be given. R. & J. P. —
September 13. T. tf
French Goods.
Received l>y the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre -df
j Grace,
Caf* 1 ' S ladies' SHOES of all colors forts and frees
I Ditto white and colored.Siik STOCKINGS.
I Ditto Fine LAWN _
X Ditto best fine CAMBRIC
Ladles' best lhammy and Grenoble Gloves
e Aug. 14 L
Wm. HOLDERNESSE, i
th
No. 76 High Street, 0 » (
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
the East Indits, a well fele&ed afibrtmcnt of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and H&berdaftiery Goods ; which'
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on theloweft terms ;
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
" Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and (river
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto P r
Do • do do do Handkerchiefs ..
Some dfctra black tafTeties,luteftringsand colored Pcrfians C 1
Bandano Handkercliiefs
Long and ftiort Nankeens m
English Mantuas of the firft quality
Damalk table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant alTortment
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'ddo. and do cloth
French cambrics, very fine
Irifti Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 § el:
- Pieces Nankeens, fe
Of the bejl quality and on reasonable terms, a
TOR SALE BV
h , Philip Nicklm & Co. ■ ,
Auc^if 1 . a 5. dtf
e — j
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif-
bon, landing at the fubferibsrs wharf—
i- 28 Pipes of Brandy ~
e j8 Bales of Spanilh wool
3 do. of Annifee'd
7000 Bulhels of best Lilbon Salt j
-80 Boxes of Lemons
For Me by WILLINGS A FRANCIS. a ,
' ALSO, "
e Seventy tloglheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS, j
received by the fbip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart,
from Kingftoti. ,
Sspt. 13. d
E FOR SALE, J
WINE, London plrticular Madeira, 4 years old, a
<n pipes aivj hoglheads
Claret, genuine old, in cases
Qfn, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Baiket Salt-, in hoglheids
Shot, Ncs. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead »
Steel, German and Ruflia, in barrels
Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin Canvas, e
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by "
THOMAS & JOHN 'KETLJTND. p
July 19 • § «
Lottery and Broker's Office, o
A*"*?. 64, South Second street. j.-
TICKETS m the Canal Lottery, No. J, sor s fale—a
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
Check Bool;* kept for examination and registering, for
the City of Washington, No. a, and Pattefon Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information where
;rt tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the application of the public
and his friends, who wifti to purehafe or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
ho &c. or to obtain money on depofu of property.
he . Wm. Blackburn.
01 Philadelphia, August mt^
- For Sale, 1
r The Time of a Negro Man,
en Who is a good Cook. Enquire at No. 109, South ]
, Water-Street. <
Sept. 23. dl ° '
sen n- ANTED, ;
aid A Middle-Aged WOMAN, who can he Well recom
md mended, to take charge of the entire management of
ted children—Soch a person will meet with suitable cncou
ragement, and may hear of a place, by applying to the
) printer ot this Gazette.
— Sept. 14. mV,L -
■ Dissolution of Partnership.
THE Partnerlhip between ROBERT ANDREWS and
D AVID MEREDITH, undei the firm of ANDREWS
of and MtREDITH, being diHolved. All p-rfoos who are
ges. indebted to, or who have claims again!! the bid house, are
rcauelted to apply forfettlement to the fubferiber.
ted ROBERT ANDREWS,
No. 86, So. Wharves.
5ept.6,1796. d lf
Twenty Casks excellent Claret and
A few pipes choice Bprdeaux Brandy,
For file hy
Joseph Jlnthony tff Co. rhl
September • d 6 w
l or Sale,
1 By 7. WARDER, PARKER & Co. 'i>,u
An Invoice of Cordage,
ConGULo',' of (K-trt- iit fizea, from 11 inch cablss down s«
to cop? «' li:'".-', : Imported in
the (hip Swlit, from Huli, to drawbu,::.
Sept. a;. — • I—
This Day is i
r By WILI.IMM COBBETT, 3'
i Opposite Christ .Church,
; The POLITICAL CENSOR 4
FO li S E PT E MB ER. y
CONTAINING, J '
Tie LIFE of THOMAS PAINE, intrt-fperfed with ~~
remarks and reflexions ; and
Qbfervations on the Pamphlets lately pub
lijhed againfl P. Porcupine.
September a 6. *3 ]
THIS DAY PUBLISHED, ' W !*
By J. ORMROD, No, 41, Chefmit-ftreet,
(Price,l2 1-2 Cents)
The President's Address r
To the People ps the United State»,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
at the expiratiolv of the present conftitational term of
presidency.
Scptemler 20. d
Public Notice is Hereby Given,
XO ihe Freemen of the City and County of Phila- Tht
u -t* 1 1 -lj | .I- , t t ypnf- a
" ral election will beheld on Tueiday the eleventh day h
of Of ober next. —The ele&ion to be opened between I
the hours of ten . o'clock in the forenoon, apd one _J
o'clock in the afternoon.
Wlien the freemen of the City of Philadelphia, are
k to meet at the State-hojfe in- the fa>d city, to elefl
'' Six Representatives far said city in General AfTem
bly, Ar.
One Reprcfentative for said city in J he House of lie- /
r prefentltives »f the United States. I
Twenty persons for members of the Common Coun
is cil '
Twelve persons for members of the Select Com- n
triittec.
Th. Freemen of the City andCoimtycf Philadelphia
' to cleft
Cne person for Governor
Two perfous fcr Coroners —
One person for County Ccmmiflioner
The Freemen of the County of Philadelphia, to
'elea
Six Representatives for said County in General As- ,
fembly. ' A
One Representative for said county in the House of
Reprefrntitives of the United States.
The Freefien as the City and County of Philadel
* la, and County of Delaware, to eledi
— OntSiuator for the State •, — ; *i- p y
The Frferr.cn or tne ef the TforTTTern JLi
? berties are to h.ld their eiedlien at the town-house in
Second Street continued, above Coats's Street.
The Freert'.en of the townfliips of Germantown,
Roxborough and Bristol, are to hold their election at
the Union School House in Germantown.
The Freemen ef the townlhips ef Oxford, Byberrv, .
Lovrer Dublin and Morcland, are to hold their ele&ion
at the hoafe of the late John Barnfley in Bnfsletown, in
thetewrtfhip of Lower Dublin. p;,
c. And the Freemen of the Diftrift of Southwark, and
' the towefhips of Moyamenfing, Paflyunk, and King- pj
' felling, are to hold their eleflion at the State-House in c c
the City of Philadelphia. Di
— The Constables of each Ward, Diftrifl, &c. are to M
hold their eleiflion, in the ditferent to choose Ja
their infpe<3»rs for the enfaingyear, and to give their A
' atteiidiince at the time and refpeflive places.
Sept. >6. JOHN BAKER, Sheriff.
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
1
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably Ho an aft of Congress of the United X
States of America, patted at Philadelphia, the 28th day j
15, of May, 1796 ; hying duttei on, Carriages, for the convey- J w
ancc of per ions, and repealing the for that pur- en
pose.—That there Ihall be levied, colWfted artd paid, upon
all carriages f«>r the conveyance of persons, which (hall be
kept by or for any person, for his or h*r own use, or to let
"out to hire, or for the conveying of paffeogers, the several du- K
ties and rates following, ;o ) c
For and upon every CoaCa, 15 dols.
~ a upon eveTy Chariot, 12 dots.
in upon every Pofl Chariot, 12 dols<
upon every Post Chaise, 12 dojs. ot
for upon every Phaeton, with or without top, 9 dols
ies, upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
ere upon other Carriages, having pannei work above,
wn with blinds, glattes or curtains, g dols.
w _ upon four wheel carriages, having framed posts and
f or tops with flecl springs, 6 dols. Il
- unon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
Afc ' springs or jacks, 3 defe.
upon curricles with tpps, 3 dols.
V' uponchaifes with tops, 3 dols.
upon chairs with 3 dols.
upon fulkics with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, £dols.
l upon two wheel carriages, with fteefcor iron springs, g
— 3 dols. . , ai
For and upon all other two wheel Canutes, 2 dt^ls.
upon every four whe. 1 carriage, having frameQ posts
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
The CoUeftors of tbe Revenue of the firft lurvey of the
Diftrift of Pfcnnfylvania, will atteftd daily, urt il the 30th day
of September next, for the purpose of rece-athe duties on
Carriages, at No. ii7,inßuce or SafTafrai the City —
— of Philadelphia, ai of DartieTSTCljiir, Efq in the
County of Montgomery ; and at the house of Abraham Du
bois. Esq. in the County of Rucks; of which all persons pof
-;f feffed of («Ch Carriages are desired to take notice.
ou Not'ce is also given, i;
the TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled spiri
tuous tiqilors, that licences will be granted to them ; one li
f cence for carrying on the bufmefs of retailing oi Wines, in a
lefs'quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—-and one
licence for carrying on the buGnels of retailing Spirituous 1;- -
and quors in ]efsquantities than 10 gallons, at the fame lime and
WS at the fame places, by the officers legally authorized to grant (
i are fuck licences. ,
are WILLI AM NICHOLS, 1
InfpeQnr of the Revenue of the firft lurvey
of the ditlnftof Pennf. ivania. .
Office of InfpeOion.at ) 3®
tf Philadelphia, 21ft July, 1796. J *
FQ R SAL E,
By N. and J. FRAZIER,
No. 95, S. Front-ftrcet,
Prime Boston Beef, in barrels.
Seorgia Cotton. % £
Carolina Rice, afid Indigo.
Skerry and Tcr.eriffe Wine 6, of excellent quality.
.Havens Duck. j
Indio Basdartno's. *
•Sewing Silk?, various colours.
-Coffahs and G rr.ihs.
i Stpt. J? . tt«4Vr.
1 - "
ITo r"IST or
— —'IN PirNN-ST* f'ET,
136 quarter Chests frefh Hyson Tea?
iskd ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing tmall tea setts of 4»*
pieces; . >
400 pieces Bandanoes.
Wiliings & Francis.
January 30 tt&f
1 FOR SAL E.
PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND OINi of 'he firft qualities in Pipe*.
FRAUNCES and VAN REED,
Brokers and Commifiion Merchants, No. 63, So. 3d St.
Who dTcount approvedNOTES of hand.
N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted. t
September 14. mwf
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, '~~
s By W. YOUNG, MILLS and Son,
Corner of Second and Chfnut jl reefs,
Price 12 1-2 cents,
The President's Addreft
- To the People of the United States,
INTIMATING 9
l- The resolution he has formed'to decline berng considered
»- ar.iorc the Dumber us those out.of whom a choice is to
y be made, at the ensuing ekihyuof a rrclTdchFoi the
n United States.
Ie Sept. 20. ( \vs6
e Great is Truth and viuft prevail.
\- JUST PUBLISHED,
Andforfale at No- 41 Chefnut-Jlretl by J. ORMROD,
An Apology for the Bible,
1_ By R. Watson, d. d. f. a. s.
Bi/kop of Landaff, &c.
1 Being a complete refutation of Paine's
ia Age of Reason,
Aid the only auf*er to the Second Part.
Augufl 30. dtf -
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
° By W. Young, Mills and Son,
[Price so cU. in boards, 62 1-2 neatly bound"]
An Apology for the Bible,
>' In a fries of Letters,
A<Wefied to Thomas Paint , author cf a boole entitled
The Age ef Reason, part ibe second, bring an in
•vefttgation of true ntid fabalous theology.
4 By p WATSON, D- r> u. a. &: tHfeop of
Landaff, and Regius Profeffor of Divinity
111 hi the University of Cambridge. «,
Sept. 16. _ _ ty&.lo _
« India Tamboured Muslins. ■
in A /mail, handfoms assortment of Muslins 9
in VIZ.
Fine tamboured Matda and Santipere Muslins, various
patterns and prices.-
g" Plain 6-4 Jaconet.
in Corded and cross-barred Muslin Shawls.
Dttto ditto 6-4 and 4-4 Dorcas.
to Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarse.
Je Japan Muslins, and
sir A few pieces extraordinary fine Long Cloths.
*0R SALS BY
Thomas Tingey,
No. 121, South Third-street.
Sept ra. . tytf&f
TO BE SOLD, .
That Neat and Convenient House,
ed TT THEREIN the fabferiber now lives. There are lour
lay VV rooms on a floor : the house is two stories high
:y- w ith a good girrst above : under the whole is on excell-
Jr " ent cellar, with a dry well, in which is a convenient
? n framed chamber for preserving meat, butter, &c. in warm
I , weather. Attached to the house is a Stable for three
IC. horses, Kay-lof , granary, and carriage-house, a wood
yard paved with stone, and a garden with foil of a fine
'quality. An indisputable title will be made to the pur
chaser. For farther particulars apply to the fubferiber in
Princeton, or. in her absence te Thomas D. Johnson, Ef<j.
or the rev. Samuel S. Smith.
ANN_WITHERSPOON.
Princetoa, Aug 24. lawtO
ive, — i
, nd Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and diftridt of
ron SOUTHWARK,
Publithed, and fold by
BENJAMIN DAVIESy
No. 68, High street,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 26 inche» square, and has been en"!
Igs, g rav <;d by one of the firft aftifts in the city, from a late
and accurate furvev. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
„ phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
■ citvk its population, trade, government, &c.
t July 19 v tu&ftf
. TAKE NOTICE.
MfHr rH" fnhfrrlW- -J—- r r 1 :" Li —
J. newal ot tbe following certificate, supposed to be
A U C loft on the paflage tb England in April 1794 =
, 0 (. Certificate No. 10335, dated ijth November, 1793,
for dollars and 02 cents —Six per cent, domestic
debt, on the books of the Treafuryof the United States,
in the name of the Hon. John Trevor.
>iri- ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's.
']i Philadelphia, Augufl 30th, 1796. *tu&f6w
Zl w A NT E D; -
» !i - THF.es JOURNEYMEN BOOK-BINDERS,
and OOD steady workmen will meet with conftar.t em
;rant VJT ployment.and good wages; by applying to JOHN
CURTIS, No. 43, North Fourth-street.
N. B. BOOK.-BINI3ING in all its different branches,
rVCy executed with neatness anel dispatch. Public and privata
libraries repaired In the neauft ar.d best manner.
September 20. ' awFkom ruE Farmer's Weekly Museum.
■ The COUNTRY CRITIC,
> yV GR REVIEW 01 rscent PUBLICATIONS.
■ No. I.
S . ITO BE CONTINUED OCCASIONALLY.]
.
" Ep 'tjtles, domejlic, confidential and official frbm
General Washington, &c."
THE title page of this volume informs ns that
these epistles were written about the commencement
of the revolution; that they were addressed to feve
ral'military and diplomatic characters of rank, and
that t\o part of this correspondence has bee# prin
ted in the two volumes, recently published.
Of these letters there is no reafou to doubt the
authenticity. The Editor, in his preface remarks
judiciously that the firft collection is incomplete,
,_J; wirhonr thr ftfpp?emrnr;rry~one. It appears that
he, who arranged the letters firft published is hot.
the fame person by whom the present collection is
edited. But both evidently derive their authority
from principals, and therefore we may penife this
volume without any of those fteptical doubts, ge
rerallyVttached to pofthurnous or other letters, Sp
'pearing in a " shape."
Among the few, the very few enemies of Wash
ington, it has long been a fafhionable remark, that
the soldier is more conspicuous in his character,
lUan the scholar and the ftatafnaan. Merf are com
monly so envious of superior excelleaae, that tKey
/brink from praitfng lany but themMves, and when
obliged to the task of eulogy, they do it by halves.
He who is an eloquent orator is infiduoufly rcprtr
ferfted as a weak and flimzjr logician. He who
eminently excels iri any one art, in others is fuppo
v fed to be a fniatterer. But, it should be remem-,
fcered that, however we may doti'jt universality of
genius, there are fotne minds of such admirable ver
fgtility, and pliancy so ozier like, that they can
piomptly bend in any direction. They can compre
hend the va(t, and detail the minute, they can
" sweep tjie long tra'ft of day," and mark the
grub of the ground. The Roman annalills con
vince us that the StJ Ceftr nm learnea jtia brave,
a courtier and a gallant. , In the city he could
" charm the mistress and fix the friend." In Gaul
the reign of foftnefs expired and defeated hordes
felt the airri of a warrior.
To thisclafs of intellect the mind of Wafliing
ton seems to pertain. He ispo less at home in his
study than in his tent. Fasts refute the insinuati
ons of fail ion. In domellick life he has proved
himfelf an easy and amiable man. In military af
fairs he is unrivalled, and in eouncii fagacionj. The
letters before us will demonltrate his literature. We
will not hesitate to place them in a high rank of
epistolary composition. Though net dilated in a
eloifter, or p college, yet had they been elaborated
by a monk br " ail Grefham" they had been iufe
nor writings.
Among the firft pages of this correspondence we
find a letter to John Parke Cuftis Efq ; which
marks the liberal and dignified mind of the writer,
rlis youthful correfptsndelit it appears is a candi
date for martial honors, and his Excellency points
out to him the course of study aqd action, prepara
tory to the camp. Tlie young gentleman is his
son in law, and his anxious and militarVparpjit ex
hibits thcr solicitude of a soldier for the htnor of
his frjend. 6t Coflfidering, fays he. your rank, for
tune and education, whenever it is proper for you
to come forward on the theatre, it must no.t be anv
under part that you alft. You are therefore cer
tainly in the right to decline any part, till you are
-fit for'the firft and leading character.'' By Jnfif- ,
ting on the capricious influence of fortune in war, ,
the experienced Washington endeavors to deter his
relative from a course of life, which may expose ,
himto the chance of censure. Yet, fays he I love ;
arms. I nm married to my sword, as wefl as to' ,
your amiable mother and heaven is my vritnefs that
lam in earned when I fay death alone (hall divorce j
me from either. lam not so blindly devoted how- ;
e»er, to my profeffioH, as not to fee by how frail a i
tenure I hold the little reputation I have gained in '
' it—With a soldier faccefs alone is merit ; afid the J
world is aworfe judge of'military matters, than »
any other. Have I not reason *o wish that your !
eh'sice had fal!e« on the quieter, but not less impor
tant calling of a private.gentleman, in which is a
senator you might have given proof of your abili- ;
ties in a tvay, in which fortune would not have had
sof o great a /hare ? The Genet al then adds that if his .
resolution be fixed, and his correspondent *btain the \
consent of his mother and wife, i»e (hall not want j
ii.r fanftiou. After enjoining the study of tafticks,
cautioning againS too itrong reliance upon theory] |
and adding that the best commentators upon the
ar{ of war, next to experience, arc the Greek and '
Roman historians, he concludes in a lofty to'ne wot- !
thy of a great man, worthy the conqueror at Tren- j
ton. «' But the main and most dfential qualificati- ,
on is an high fetife of honor, an elevation of fenti ,
ment, and a certain dignified ftilc of behavior, that ,
s distinguishes, or foouid distinguish a foidier from
every ot her man. It is a fname indeed, if he, who '
undertakes to command others, has not firft learn. ,
ed to command fcimfelf. I will not endure any
thing mean or fordid either in your principles or
your maimers ; having determined, if it were left
with-me, to be as drift and rigorous in tliefe parti
culars, as were the knights of old, ivhen a candidate
was to be inverted with the orders us chivalry. 1
cannot diffociatc the ideas between a soldier and a
gentleman : And however common it may be to z
"rrnli'ii™ to r>rrf{ir.« of evej*v cha- {
latter, if yet conveys to me an idea of ivorth, I
want words tr> express, if I had not known you to
be a gentleman, you never {hould have had my con- ,
sent to yotir becoming a foldiet."
• (To be continued.J
Frert the Delaware & Eojlern Shore jiaveriifer. '
Me£Ys. Abams, f
cafe, important in its nature and '
consequence, was decided at Dover, by the Regi- 1
Act of Kent County, on the J jthof August, 1796. 1
The tnfcrCiou of il in your Ailvertifci, Will apprise
the public of its pi inciples, and majerialiy oblige a r
Augufi. 8, 1796. SUBSCRIBEif.
*
Redman and IVijt i- Stent.
For the'plaintiffs, tkis csffc w.is argued by Mi.
Ridgcly, and by ifleffrk. Viili«g and Fifiier, tor
the defendant.
CASE.
The defendant was chosen guardian Dy the wife
of the plaintiff, Mr. Redman, fn the month of
November, 1789, and uontinucd in that capacity,
until her arrival to the age of twenty-one y*ars, in
, September 1795. Within the fix pre
scribed by law, an annual estimate of the minor's
real prbperty, was made by thtee freehoKiers, who
"valued it at the sum of £. 100. r l'heque!tion was,
• whether the defendant ihould account for the valu
ation of the minor's land, as returned by the free
holders, or the rents and profits as they annually
aecrned ?
On the part of the plaintiff it was contended,
that at the guardian was appointed solely for the
, bepefit of the ward, and in his appointment, the
law did not contemplate any profit* to arise to him
felf, more than his reasonable expencefc and cotn
-1 miflians for his trouble and care, he in the present
instance ought to account for. what he has'really re
i ceived : That the valuation required by the a& of
Assembly, was never intended ds a rtile, by Wliich
• the guardian fllould account to the ward, but as
evidence to enable the ward to recover double da
mages for any waste, falcor deSrudion sis hrsland,
which might, have been committed by the guardian
during his trust : That the guardian was cpnlifler
■ ed by the law as a truttee or receiver of the ward's
' pioperty, and as fueh, he could never dTfd.arge hi«
trust as he ought to do, but by accoutring for the
rents and profits, and that practice i« in force in
this country, there being no ether principle efta
-1 blifhed by any a'fi of assembly, by which the guar
dian rs to account, and that the orphan's oourt, on
an appeal t» them, ia a lale cafe of Nock 4;
ro«nfend, had adapted the above principles.
For the defendant it was contended that-the va
luation made in conformity to the aft of Assembly
was intended by the legiflatvre, as the criterion,
by which the guardian was to account to the (W:
: nor : That this cenftru&ion was fan&soned by iht
uniform prafticc-of boftl bc
fore and finee the revolution : Tlrat the best possi
ble method of arriving at the real value, was that
dire&ed by the law in question, because on the one
hand, it secures the minor against any fraud, which
a guardian ir.ighttje disposed to commit, bj taking
afalfe oath in rendering his account, and sn the
other, the value i 6 fixed by men, emanating fr*m
the orpSans' c»urt, and who difmtereftedjy and oil
their oaths, return- the real value of the premises,
and, that admitting the law not to be trade for the
express purpnfe for which they contended, yet"that
as the valuation had been adopted by the orphans'
court as the best evidence for the guardian to ac
count by, ever since the passage of the law requir
ing it to be made, it ought *ot now to be departed
from *.
a he Reg'tfler delivered his opinion as follows^—
Lhe question submitted to my determination,
important as it is, in itfelf, derives great additioaai
consequence, from the circumftanee of its bearing
an intimate relation to the fntereft, and most irtefti
mable privileges of my fellow-citizens at large, *ut
moreefpecially to that portion of them, which from
of Ii iTmaiihy, hofior aricT policy, we are
bound to regard with a,fuftaining hand.
When the extensive operation, the endless effects
the decision to be given may have upon oui(elves
and posterity, is conteaiplated—-involving as it does
the settlement of an important principle in ourju
(Jcial proceedings—l am ready to thrink from my
own confcioufnefj of propriety, and resolve forever
to doubt upon a queflion of right' and ' wrong !—
But- tis not •ptional— to aft in 'conformity to the
dictates of my own judgment, is in this instance, ao
mdifpenfable duty—no alternative remains, but to
execute or abandon.
Tha point in dispute between the oarties, I's
fi<nply, whether i* this state, and under the exist
ing form of its constitution, and the laws now in
force, a-guardian is justly chargeable, ss such, for
the amount of the rentsand profits of the real es
tate ef his ward, and tio snore 5 or £or that sum or
price, which the freehclders-apjiointea accaiding to
an aft of the affanbly of this state, paffrd in the yeai
1766, may estimate and certify the value to be.
1 have reftrifted the enquiry to this state, because
in Englandjjfrom whcnce our common law is chiefly
derived, it is no question. TkreM* »nceded by
all, that the guardian :s to account for the utmoS
farthing of his ward's estate, saving his right to
rcafotiable allowance for his trouble and expence.
In this narrowed view of the fubjeft, 1 (hall of
fer no comment upon, or recapitulation of the many
cases adduced by the counsel rdpeftivtly, tfte ne
cessity therefor being entirely fuperceded byMhe
acknowledgment before mentioned—an acknow
ledgment forced, by the number and great autho
rity'of the cases produced and read on the occasion,
to wit, that by the common law, the guardiarf is ac
tually accountable so. all the profit., which may
come to his hands. ;
The great distinguishing circumstance, between
the law 0f,h 15 country and that of England upon
this luhjeft ,s, the circumstance of our havin C 8
valuation of minor's property to the guardian, un
der the authoruy of an aft „( assembly of this state *
In Engla ,d therj l 8 no fnch valuation—Herce it
is, that any doubt which may have been certain
ed, w.th refpeft to a guardian being accountable for
the rents and profits of the real cftate of his v, ard
upon and arise f ro m xhc aft of as'
{embly pr»for,bm a T^ r^pgforat4w _ tMere the r
gtlier read the 7th feftion of the aft t« For amp
ing the laws relating to testamentary affairs, ami for
better fettling inteflate.' estates.] h ig t , °
vrc ucrc find an intimation <as the yearly retr« • a
profits to he ralfid, but does not fay to be
for, ,f not raised. The latter p.rtVf t s e S d
paragiaph, which is explanatory, as to »he use of
aw guardedly Clent upon th«'point. I, tatt
the of the cvtdcnccof this certi
tUr " of ttlg valuation, to enable the ward on his Ir
/ * " ad r ™' n ol f e ™> -'W the above is hul *
arsument3 If ihe *>uzjel e „ albtr
rlfal at age, to rctovtr-double damages m aft s tic .
ofvuaftc, fee. «
Thus then the lawhcre, seems rather coturpcal,
not deciding by express terms, nor by ftrwj, impli
cation even, what the guardian is to account for
whether rents and pioflts or valuatJoii.
Let it be remembered, that the right of proper
iy and its increase, is among the dearest and .most
inestimable privileges of a freeman—a right molt
jealously prote&cd by the just spirit of our laws—
most fefiurely guaranteed by the conttitutioii itlelf.
Shall"it then be pretended, that from mere intima
tion, or by the force of implication merely, one
citizen ill all be deprived of the juit increase of his
estate, to the emolument of another ? To prohibit
the minor from the profits—the surplusage profits
over the valuation, I deem the u(e of negative words
indispensable in the ad of aflembly, and that he
should in the taoft direst terms, be precluded from
all claim over the eilimated value.
This not having been done, I,take it, the ques
tion is left «t large detei mi liable by the comrttori law
of England. Neverthelefe, I vi<?;v the certificate
of valuation legally returned, to be prima fade,
good evidence of the guardian being.Co far eharge
able, and nofanher, except upon dffcuffion, it (hall
be in proof, that fnarcor less was rccfivtd, in which
cafe, the valuation, 1 hold as incoiiclufive upon ei
ther guardian or ward.
In reply to the idea, that the authority of long
continued practice originating with the law itfell—
fanftioned by the acquiescence of the people, tffefts
the eflablifhment of the principle, it tnay be urged,
that the prevalence of a doctrine sub jilentio, is ne
rer to be pled in precedent—'Tis the asthority of
adjudged cases, upon full investigation only, that
weigh in the balance against reafen and justice.
In addition to What has already been said, I will,
a 9 on a recent occasion, fugged, \hat as the con
stitution of this Hate imposes a positive obligation
upon the register, to regard the equity of the cafe,f
and that too in the most emphatical words, t "fliould
not think myfelf warranted in any degree, that
should infringe in the least upon the immutable
principles of j m 11 ' ~ 1 rfri-T-pfi a
TTzen, cxcept such inflation was enjoined by the
express and positive terms of the law.
In this oafe, as it cannot be pietefided that the
aft of assembly is express ai positive, against the
profits being accounted lor, or that it unequivocally
makes the valuation conclusive and paramount ; and
as the common law is beyond all contradiction in
favour of the ward's claim to the whole of the pro
fits, and against the valuation, I, ii\conformity to
the constituted obligation before-mentioned, in re
gard to the principles of common juftige and the
equity of the cafe» am contained to fay, that Ja
cob Stout, late guardian to Rebecca Allen, now
Redman, is justly chargeable with the wholeamount
of the rents and profits of her real estate, faying
his right to his. expenditures and reasonable com
miffiens.
f Fid: . I bth fctlion tf (stb article of the conflituiidn.
Fram a Lond*h Patek.
RESPECT FOR THE DEAp.
The qneftien treated ill the following article, has
already occupied the attention of the French
legislature, as being iatiraately connected with
public iuuiuls. The fofejed is popular, and has
lately at different times been the fubjfcft of dif
cuilion in this eountry.
AFTFR a revolution iu wlch the palfions of the
human mind have displayed all their energy, in
which falle and misguided zeal, the ardar of novel
ty, the delirium us innovation, have too often
usurped the rights of rcafon fcrtd the language of
philosophy, in which by disdaining and by rejeft
jag every thing allied to periods marked with the
impression of fcrvitude, by a wiih to refcmble in
nothing the customs of other nations, the bonds of
foclety Were broken, and the empire overthrown of
truths the most refpeftable, or of errors the most
dear to feebie humanity : it is the duty of the man
whoin the lefTotis.of experience have enlightened,
to examine, amidst this mafsof ruins, what are the
ufagce, the ii.ilitetions, which ought to be buiied
:n eternal oblivion, arid What ate thofr which,
founded on human nature, upon unalieralv'e afTec
tior.s, should be cherillted so long it fubfifti. The
legislator ought not to resemble the mac who ap.
plies the pruning-kr.ife to the tree, retrenches and
lops the plants in his garden, without confultim;
ttrc prcp, retyof rr nc, nor the fitfioerice ol f«,f o[l £ '
He ought to-treat man as a feeble being, who re
quires to be treated with salutary caution, v.hom ! '
too bright si ray t.-rves to dazzle, not to enlighten, i 1
He w.ll pnrfne, wuh indefatigable zeal, errors of '
ata. comrqiienee, and prtjudiceo favourable to tv- 1
ninny; bui he will „«r attempt to triumph over <
the invincible power of imagination', and to teat <
from the heatt, illusions end cobfalalory, ne. !
ver pernicious. ' ]
A sacred refpeft f sr the dead has prevailed at «
every period, and m,every couiyry. "Does it ori- 1
ginate m our pride, or in that natural defne of fur- c
viv.ng, after we are no more, ,f occupying a «
place in the of me „, when our Li •
duTtT'rh ° mi? •rV h "P of cold lifelefs '
duit ?1 he principle, of our passions, the fourees of >
our weakness and our errors, almost always elude
otir penetration, We only behold the effedt
Suoe" ■ aH ' C ,S , COn , te ' akd f, '° m our observation. .
Supenor gen.uses have difc.vered the laws of "
enlv bod'r W9 C ° Urr,: of ,llc hes "
i t, ; "'Tf 3 P a " veil with which
fn Jj' covered her operations; but none lias
zll irr i
fratrt'h.mfd'l d ' P "' k " ° 0 ' 1" P'<- »
fr«N s
,h t riStrvrGS s
and Romans considered funeral ce'remonjfg a , a, i;
| «lebrate £ara ee «po, the tombs of bis 'father, Au ' 13
g- ;
y- .imi-UjlTH^^M
j'fjibe'i
- r HPhiladelphia,
WEDNESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER »8, 1796-
- —
Markted, last Monday evening, by the Rev. Dr.
S-.ving, Mr. Hugh Jackson, meichaat of this city, to
Mils Jane Cochran.
Died, at Northumberland, in thi« date, on the 21ft
lp.'tant, Mrs. Priestley, wife of the Rev. Dr. Prisftlty.
" Woes clatter—rare arq solitary Woes." Scarcely re
covered from the ftiocl: occasioned by the death of his
youiigeft son, the venerable philosopher has again to cx
ertife the virtues of patience, rcfignation and fortitude,
which he so eminently polTefles.
, on th'- 24th inft. Ac his feat in Buck's .county#
after a fljort illriefs, Captain John Green, ianior. He
w:!* a man oi- unblemiflaed integrity, os-great chearful
:ie(s and good nature; friendly, generous and
hoipitable, to an uncommon degree ; and' as lie was long
loved, so we doub; not he will jlong be remembered, by
his numerous friends and acquaintances; Ijnt by none
jaore than by his family and neighborhood, to whom
his death is a iofs that cannot be dslcribed.
From Paulson's Town and Country Almanac,
for the year 1797.
—
A LIST of the BIRTHS and DEATHS
Jn Ike Jtveral Religious Satieties in'the City of Phila
delphia, from AuguJ 1, 1795, to AuguJ} I, 1796.
Births Deaths ts g_j
Km.es of Societies* tSV.' QTfe. ft 11
-S .if $-.r, £«.
■2 f : . C M aryi 195 188 »° 9; 3*3 217
churches J Holy Irimty Si , >' ~c g,
lirtt PrclOyterian church 3-. .. „ ci m
StcondPrcfbyteriw.de. '« *' 26 24 S J
Third Presbyterian 00.- II g*'\\,£ . 4
Scotch Prefbytenan do. 22 . TT , 0 2?
The Associate Church , 19 f
Sor.erv of Ft«, Quakers j f ; * 3
Moravian church - - , f 9 o ■*&!
Swediih ditto . . « » 9 /
MWlmaft ditto - j. 39 ~ 9
Baptist ditto J % » * J
UniverlalUt s ditto - i 31344
Je.viih or Hebrew ditto 1 \ 3 , 3 3
African Episcopal ditto /j g c oJJ o
Cotter's") White people f2oj in, 20C 16 , 399 3 i 5
Field J Mick people f >57 16c 12 0 106 3'-7
Total number - 14.50 14l - 1188 ,05528472283
Several of these Societies admit the remains of Stran
gers to be deposited in their burying grounds: if this
were not the cafe, the deaths would leldom exceed half
the number of bifths.
t Births in thoi'e families who bury in Potter's Field.
We informed our readers on Monday, that the Ven
geance cutter, belonging to Capt. Barney, was arrived
at St. Croix with a. valuable prize—We have now to
add, that the prize is the (hip Cochran, from Liver
pool, bound to Martinique. from Boston,
puhlifhed the fame day, of the arrival at Barbados* o: :
a Brm(h frigate, from Gibraltar, i, confirmed hy .
Carson of the schooner Su&unik, arrived at the fort
from BarbadoeSi which he left the 31ft August. The
figate took three jpiaiih fntps on her paflage, and
• frni tin. 111 to-Jamaic?. until it ihould be determined
whether war has been actually declared between the
two nations : one of the*) was supposed to be worth"
125,000 i. Several privateers had failed from Barba
does to cruise- egamft the Spaniards.
a V V C K S.
Six perCcnt. - » - - - - .
Three per Cent. • . 10/5 / int. '
4s per Cent 14/' f off.
Si_ per Cent. . .. , % ... jifyj
Deferred Six per Cent. - - - -
BANK United States, - - l9toioprct.
f Pennfylvauia, ... . 26 to 27
——— North 'iinciica, ... - 45 to 46
Insurance Camp. North-America, 37 l-2per cent. adv.
Pennsylvania, par to 2 per cent. adv.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, per £.100 fieri.- par.
■ at 60 days, par to 162 1-2
at 90 days, / 161 a #82 1-2
Amsterdam, 60 per guilder, 42
■ 90 day 3, 4a
BY THIS DAY's MAIL.
BOSTON, September jj.
MatrieS, yesterday, Mr. Samuel Myet's, Mer-
Ciianr, of Psterfburgh (Virginia) to Mist Hoys.
M. M- Myers, Merchant, of said place, to Miss '
Sally H«ys, daughters of Mr. M M. Haya, Mer. '
chant, of thi3>town.
FROM FRANCE. '
Capt. Bennett, who arrived on Wednesday,
from Bayonne, in France, had a paflage of 44
days. The only paper that he brought out with (
Lira, and which was ef the 3d of August, he gave j
to the Lieutenant of a French frigate, which board
ed him. That paper contained aeceunts of the j.
capture of Frankfort—and mentioned, that after j
its firft capture, the Auftrians again got po/Tellion
of it ; but the French (dcceeded in racking and
holding the city. After the capture of Frankfort,
the siege of Mentz commenced—A war between
Spain and England was expected. An Englilh fti
gate had been taken by the Terrible, of ,74 guns, •]
and carried into a small harbor cailed'the PafTaget.
Provisions ot every kind were cheap ; and brandy
about fc/» n or eight livresper veit.
FEVER AT CHARLESTON. i]
Ex'.raft of a letter from Chai'efton, S. C. Au
-4 gust 3y f
" It is impoflible to describe to rop the wretch
ed situation of this city.-—The fever rages with ac- '
cumulated ftry. For /everal days past the deaths
have exceeded thirty ; and tl>e average for a month
past will be twenty. Sufin#f6 isa stand.'' • 1
c
BALTIMORE, September 24. f
Extra& of a letter from a genntleman at Savannah, i
to his friend in Frederick-towr, dated August i
3 °A . V
'' Thereragei at present a malignant fever in the c
city of Chsilcfton, which carries off from 20 to \
? j 30 p«fon» daily : You may depend on this in»
telligcnce, a? I liave it frornveiy good authotity
Several veffcis are ;Ibw performing quarantine at ao
island ten miles diltam down the river from Charles
ton. It is supposed that it has originated from
the open cellars, occalioned by the late conflagrati
'r. on, in which the rains have fallen, the Itagnated
to watet together with the quantities of vegetables
and meat, which families had stored up previous to
ft tl ? 4 . fir , e ,'' P Bt,if >' in g» produced this direful Corn
y praint.
lis NE W-YORK, September ty.
Lxtraa of a letter from Bordeaux, 18 Mejjidor, +tb
year ef tbt Republic,
j. - 7." Amcri «." vessel has just arrived from the Isle
l e of I'rance. which place (he left the 27th of last
1- March, with half a cargo of colanial produce : not
Jd bavirig taken freight or Jrny letters : the people
S seemed to be in a ftatcof tranquility and abundance.
Ie A privateer with a 1 men, boarded and took pof
n session of an English (hip of goo tons, and ico
inert, under pretence of putting a pilot on board.
1 he i'reuch capt. quitted his vefTcl-to carry the ene
my to the coalt of Malabar. From thence he sha
ped hn course tn his prize to the Isle of France,
where he arrived without meeting any accident. I
hope this caption will prove as profitable as the ta
king of it was honorable. I conjecture from the
numbei of men who were on board of the Englifli
5 (hip, that it is a velTel ffom cither Surat or Bombay,
- armed with Lascars.
f FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
8 —
6 franjlated for the (New-York) MiNgRrA.
* £Rcm PARIS PjrSßi.
I R A T 1 S BO N, July s .
g The baron de Geurniengen, minister of the Duke '
4 of Brunfwick, has received orders fr«m his fove-
X reign, to notify, in,his name, conjointly w ; t h the
° amba£Tadors of the ekaor of Bran lcnSourg, Hano.
f j't- •n<i.Bruufwick. Ifiuhe.lmperial, minister re
y udent in this city, that it \Vas kis intention to untie
3 together in a body, a number of Prulfian and
7 Brmnfwisk 1 roops,« well as troops of the Empire ;
4 and that different states had charged themselves
o with the expenCe of maintaining this body 5 that
s this mea,fare had keen didated by ncccflity and the
6 principles of felf preservation ; that its obj.a had
- been to secure the northern part of ,Germany from
3 iiivafion and infme itis tranquility, and that as filch
1- s* organization, so far from being cdfitrary to the
is conftitotion, was even fcvored by it, his serene
lf hightw:fs flatters himfelf thar this step will meet
with his Imperial mnjefty's approbatius.
The affair of the Abbe Salabert, minister *of the
dnk« of Deiixponts ftili remains in Biicertalnty.
Ttre courts of Bradenbourg, Saxony, Hanover,
3 HefTe Ca£Tel and Wurtzbourg, have demanded a ter.
_ mination of it in an amicable manner, without its
, bein K laid before the Diet. On the 28th of last
f June, Baron du Huge], the Imperii commissioner,
- .tjic the court of Yicnna.
r gave the mmifters of the Claimants to undcrfttod
e " that in the present cafe the Emperor could not be
.j considered as The head of the empire, but as thr
e sovereign ot hie own dominions, and that confe
i' qaently he left the entire management of the afeii
- to tae Duke of Octix Pouts.
. VIENNA? July 3,
The intelligence received three days -ago from
the Rhine, of the success of his Royal Highnefe
the Archduke Charles, has caused much j iy in our
ifcourt. [One wonl i imagine that the mini'fters of
this poor deluded Emperor make him believe thai
his armies, by losing battles, are gsini?* vi&ories
over the Republicans. Should that be the cafe', we
confidently prom fe hir.i a continuance of-joy. R e
mark of the French Editor. J
If we give credit to a letter from Landlhrut, in
r, Bavaria, dated the Ift of July, there are a&ually in
Bavaria, and in the Upper Palatinate, upwards of
1200 emigrant priests.
Wc find by the letter, that particular notice was
taken of ono M. de la Galaifiire,a French Bilhop,
who had refidcd for several years past at Landfhut.
It appears that this prelate at different times ordei
ed all the French j*ieft»fecretly to buy up all kinds
of provision, which he intended to trai fpott ta the
army of the Piincv of Conde. This fliglu manoeu
vre having been difcoveied, the provifiom which yet
remained in (tore was confifcated, and the Bishop
. liimfelf was commanded by the government to de
. part from the city, withoat loss of time, which he ,
5 did instantly, but has since been arrcfted at Munich,
. being accused of other treasonable pra&Tces.
The' Prince of Cobourg is to put himfelf at tht j
head of an army of thirty thousand Ruffians, who ,
are to march towards the frontiers of Galiicia ; they
' are to be divided into two bodies, one of which is
' to cover tha ; province, and the ether to terminate
| the differences which always fubfjft between the
Prussian and Aullvian commissioners, rcfpe&ing the
debarkation of its limits. Although this news has
been handed to us as authentic, we venture to fay
it will not be confirmed.
* -
Translated for the Argus.
ARMY OF THE RHINE AND MOSELLE.
at Baden, 17 Meffidor
(July 6) 4th year of the French Republic.
The General in Chief, to the Executive Directory. ,
Citizen Dire&ors, „
IN my last report, I gave an account *®f my •
project for marching against and Frenden
iiadt-
At day break yesterday morning the troops be
gan to move ; that under the General Defaix to
aitaek all that it fin-is between the Rhine and the
mountains, and General St. Cyr to attack the "po
fitionsof Frend/nftadt.
This last affair was exceedingly brisk. The re
infyrcertient of the Auftrians had arrived j the arms '
of the troops, after the severe rains, were in a
frightful state, and could not be fired. General
La Roche, commanding this attack, ordered his
infantry to fix theit bayonets, and they carried the
works after a most vigorous refilVar.ee on the part
of the enemy, whose loss, in killed and, wounded,
was very confid«rab!e. —We took about ioo pri
»> fattens, of whom feverai are cadets. Genera! Li
- Roche, whose bravery merits the greatest eulogies,
in was wounded in the haoil by a mufquet hall. The
f- firll brigade of light infautry, and the other troopi
in employed in this attack, conduced theoifelvei with ;
i- the grealcft bravery.
:d ■ The march of the lef' wing was attended by a j
-s continual combat, from Bulh to Olft. The ene* ,
o my, at this village in partirular, made the moflob
i- ilisate refinance: f"hcir position vvas excellent, its
left at Baden, its right at Olbach.—The left was
•finally forced by the mountains, the cb.irge beat at
the attack in front of the village of OKt, and we
h were rendered mallei of it. We took here a cap
iain and about 80 men. This attack was {banned
!e by General St. Suzanne and Adjutant-General De
ll ceau, under .the orders of General Defaix. Ge- ]
it neral Delmas has equally chafed a!i hp «ould find
e between (he Jihise and the Olbach.
r. The night and the great fatigue of the troops
f- forced jnc io poftponc the attack ofthe enemy's po- '
0 fiU9ns at Raftadt, Rupperh'im, and
I. untill the next day. The general officers and the
•- troops continue to give the greatelt proofs of ta
lents and courag'c. All the armies have distin
guished themfelvcs. I made on the field of battle
1 a lerjeant of a corporal of 17th half brigade of
- light infantry, who, himfeif made three prisoners. 1
e Gen. Farino, on the fame day canind the enemies
[) wotks at Bibrach, in the valley of Kintzig, Gen. '
, St, Cyp fapported this movement by cairflhg fora'e J
troops to marijh to Dppanau. . >
Salute and Refpeft,
(Signed) MOREAtX .
- (
JLONDQN, Jane 29.
The number of laws and decrees ena&ed in j
France, by the three firlt revolutionary afTcmblies, ,
amount to 24,00 c). Although they are nut alt in
forte, yet (he judges rnuil know them all. Iffo,
„ their memory miift be more rftenfive than even
• that of j Chinese Mandarin of the firll class. It
is a common faying, 1 hat the ipore fervatrts we
1 farefo the worse we ayeferred-~|f this truism ap
plies to the admintlUation of jufticc, it can be no
where worse that) in modern France.
' The French Minister at Genoa has just publithed 1
' a proclamau*on{addrefiid to tlie Frenchmen residing
in that Republic, and which begins thus, " Ttrc
l'.xccutivc Dire&ory has fixed the principles that
onjiht to be followed" rel/itive io Frenchmen ella
-1 blilhed in foreign countries.
N " France being a Republic, acknowledges as
Frcnch citizens those only who have accepted that
form 01 government, all the others will remain in
the liil of the piofcribed i'renchiiier. It is eflcutial
that France fbould be aflWed of the fidelity of its
citizens, who have only aiqoieatarily gone cut of 1
it* territory, end who are permitted to return. —
» Tlie tri-coloured cockjde is for the generality of
• French citizens, the figii of this fidelity. They
cannot dispense with wearing it in ariy place
wherever i hey are and "therefore ['declare
' 1 will not acknowledge as Frenchmen, any
• wtia shall not c.onftantly wear this cockade."
e 1 "Miwfiaiim ■■■
p OF THE UNITEp STATES MARINE UST.
PUIL Ab E L Plkl A, Ssfitemier 28.
ARRIVED. Days.
Ship American, Shalcrofs, T, ill and 25
Brig Lady Wafiiingtoo, Tremels, St. Thomas 1 7
Hannah, Keuney, 'St. Croix 14
Schr. Hetty, Mason, St. Tharaas 14
r f Sloop Sally, Busker, Cape Francois 20
CLEARED,
1 Ship Union, Fraterna, J. Raga, Leghorn
® Brig Ruby, Mitchell, Marfcilles
Friendship, Davine, Bourdeaux
Schr. Lucy, Boftwick, Wilmington, n. c.
Minerva, Elkins, Alexandria
Ariel, Barren, Noifolk
j. Betsey, Bornet, do.
Betsey, Afhby, Washington
> Sbop Defiance, Kentec, Richmond
Harriott, MsvarOj New-York
Rebecca, Munro, Savannah
Nancy, Barker, 'Nantucket 1
" Patience, Willis, New-York
Sally, iotter, New-York
September 27.
" ARRIVED. Days.
' Schr. Nancy, Block, Richmond 8 ]
' Sloop Mary Ann, Wet more, St. Croix 23 1
Sloop Romeo, capt. Baker, 8 days from Charlcf.
! ton,
' Spoke the fchr. Nancy, of Noifolk, from Port
au-Ptinctr, who told him their capt. leaped over
: baard wittr the drafts. Capt. Baker grvc him a
' course to (leer f«i Charle3on, lat. 34, 7, long. r6.
' lit tie press, end tomorrow afternoon -will be pub
'■ li/hrd,
■, By Mathew Carey, 118, Market-llreet, f
A Diflertation on Slavery,
WITH A PROPOSAL
For the Gradual Abolition of it
In the State of Virginia.
Bj ST. Cr: O HOh T UCKER, • Profejfi>r cf Law in
the Uni-verjtty of William and Mary, and eue of 1
the yudges in tffe.General Court in Virginia. 1
" Slavery not only violates the Laws ef Nature and of
Civil Society, it atfo wounds the belt forms of govern*
" ment: in a Democracy, where all men are equal, slave
" ry is contrary to th» spirit of the conttirution."
, [ - VI
Sept. alf. 1 4 J
Dutch Goods,
Received by tie Pennfylvan'la, from Amjlerdam,
GIN, in pipes
Mcrlaix *\ ,
Ticklenburgs v In Bales
' Ofnaburgs j
Haerlcm } StrJ P"' in caf "
Katf } UUCK, in oitto
Bedticks, io ditto d
Bririaehes ) . fl
Platilles } 10 d,tto "
For Sale by THOMAS tp" JOHN KETL AND. si
Aug-*9 . 3 p
1 Loft this Morning,
Joseph in favor of, ?.nd J>y J hii
e Morton, for twenty two-hundred dollars, dated the 28th
s inft. payable at6o d iys light. All perfens are forwan «d
h again.l receiving the f.iid note, as payment i» flopped, and
it therefore can he ftf no life to any person hut the fubferi
ber, \s*Ho will thank th: finder for delivering it to hirti at
No. 116 South Front Street, or if required a realbcabi. re
& ward will be paid.
jolm Morion.
3 mo aßth, * *3t
-8 — i. _
1 This Day is Pubiiflied, -
e And to, be had of tlx BcohfeJlers, price one %th of t
dollar >
si An IntcrelUng r*mwh!ef, entitled
PRESIDENT 11.
- Being observations on the late official address of George.
i W'afkiugto:), &c Sic.
£l • , ta the. People of th, l/fnted States.
8 sfptembef iS. —— —
BOOKS in SHEETS^
Late tic property of ISAAC NEALE, printer*
deceased, und for fair by Ht.CRY Kammirep.,
jun. furvhing p,rtner, No. 24, North 'Third-
Jlreet, at 50 per cent, difsount from the retail pri
ces for cajh or approved notes at 30 and Go days.*
X. RURAL Economy; an effav on the praaical pant as
husbandry, Bvo. 299 pages 7s. 6d.
2. Travels of Cyrul, (a hind'orne edition) igrao 352 pa~ci,
7s. 6d.
C 3. Calvary; of the death of Christ, (an elegant edition on
fine paper) i2t«o. 340 pages-, 79-. 6s.
4. History of ihe Clergy, during the French revolution,
umi). 400 pago, 71. id.
5. Miscellanies, moral and inftruftive, in prose ind verlr,
urn 198 pages, 3% yd.
6. Select (lories, from the celebrated works of M. Bcrquin. '
nmo. 2'jß pages, 3s. gd.
7. Power of grace llluftratcd, ums. 142 pages, 3». #d.
n 8. Ladies literary companion, 18's, 152 pages, as.gij.
>, 9. Yorick's leiie-s 10 Eliza, iß'i, 't>» pages, is. <5d
n 10' Sportfraan's companion ;or an essay on fbjoting, iß's,
t 62 as. 9d
' 11. Jovial companion ;or a library of good humour, mirth
B and entertainment | bjing ach uc colleftioa of inodera
t foags, with an engraved fromifpTcce, 12.ui). >i 4 pj_.es,
e 2S - i *
u. Medley ; or Philadelphia songster, ttmd. tit pagci,
j». S H.
0 13- Feall of merriment; or new American jester. iam».
132 pages, as. gdfe.
1 : M- fho new America jester J Br migatrne of homr,
.1 f>no- 96 pig-i, 1?. todj.
S 55. Jovial fopgiter, 18's, nd.
f ifc- Dodfley's tables from (in German) with 150 euti,
t limo. 214 pages, 3s. , d.
Atjo, tj>! ftltrwuig Children*t BOOKS.
adorned with cuts.
I. The English Hermit; or the adventures of Philip Oaa 1 V
S 8 dollars per 100 in 111.ets.
t 2. Sinbad the sailor, Bdillirsdo.de.
I, 3- New Year and Chnrtmos tales, 8 dollars do. do. *
, 4. Goody Two Shots, 5 dollars do. do. 3
5. Hill®ry of beasts, 4 dJlllrs.do. do.
s 0. History of birds', 4 dollars do. do
f 1 7. The mountain piper, 3 dollars do. do.
- * fr ? m Philadelphia !0 Nev.-York, 3 dol. dd. d 6,
9. King Pippin, 3 dollars do do
,f 10 Jatky Idle and Dicky Diligent, 3 dollars do d>
y 11. New Year's gilt, « doliari do. do.
c '«• Louisa and her birds, 2 dollars do. do.
13. The b;td cage, « dollars d«. do.
14. Primers (sJew%q{lirrd) 3 dollar! db. do. -
)' H. Kar.,merer, jun. has gift, for J,ale,
A large vaiicty of METAL CUTS, handW'V
engia\ : ed, whidi he will dispose of »ery low for calb
Se l"- g8 - . ' §3,. '
a
Amphitheatre of Arts.
e' T° THE PUBLIC.
f MPRESSED With the mo.l lively gratitude foj- paA
/ X favours, Ml Rickets returns his most fi ß cre th^ka
4 to the people of Philadelphia, for the kind peonage ar.d
4 liberal encouragement they have hitherto fliewn him
5 fobcits their attention for the enfuin K season ' •
t J *"°PP°'r üßit r of informing the Ladic, and
Gentlemen of this City, that the Amphitheatre has tin*
" r § Bße / com P let « Plealmg alteration since the last
■ "" ongmal of his *«'n) to as to make it
X perfeaiy convenient for a numerous audience: and or- '
namcntcd, 11? the aloft superb style, with Scencry, DrelTe.
a and entirely new.
He allures the public, that no paink nor eitpenfe what
ever have been spared, to render it one of the most beau-
P lace ? o[ P ubllc amusement of the kind here, or hi
n any part of Europe.
d I 4 he P ub ' ic a " further informed, that the Amphitheatre
k 6f A , rts °P cn 0H th « evehing of the loth of
, 1796. Ihe particulars of the entertainments of that
evening will be announced in the different daily publica
tions. T R. p
k September it. * eo
k Eor Sale,
s A ™ re s or y BR.CIV HOUSE and Lot, in Otiefnut
<5 163r . • b «^; een I ? ront an<J Second Greets, in which
Mellrs. James Cajbraitl, & Co. have for many yeari (and
3 now do) carriea on bufmefs. 1
s PolTefEon will be given in one month, or sooner
F6r terms apply t« WILLIAM BEJ.L, or
.. HECTOR CALBRAITH'.
April 11. '
For Sale,
'• ( ln an excellent situation for bufmefs,)
A three-story brick House and Lot of
Ground,
Eighteen feet front and twenty-fivr feet in depth, on
the Smith fide of Market near Front-ftr*et, now mpoff.f.
fion of Samuel Read.
Apply to
Israel Pleafants, or
Charles & Joseph Pleafants.
, Sales of India Goods.
f Tte Cargo «f the ship Ganges, capt. Tingay, from Cal.
• cutta and Bengal,
r Consisting O?
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
. AMQNfI WHirw ...
jine -worked and plain Muslins,
Doreas, tsV. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar y
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER
Ft>r Sale by
Willings & Francis,
' No- 21 Penn Street.
Mr. FRAN CI S,
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
fcholan and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a puhhc Aca
demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatter* himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any promises of condufling his future
. schemes on the moil liberal and ftrifteft terms, of pro
priety, totally unrieceflary.Valuable Real Estate, |
For sale at Aufiion by Cafptr Thirll, of Ilambtrg, sve j (
late the property of garnet and William Kinnear.
Tor file by public auction,on the 9th day of Novemoer A geser,
next ensuing, at the sign of Gen. Washington, °°
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county, the tol.ow- t)ro/
ing real 'Rate, viz. . , .O Pla
A TRACT of land containing 465 acres witr R o s e
No. X. J\ allowance, for roads,called the Purchale, FLA j
'fiuated in Brunfwick township, Berks county, patented, HAT
18th of Jail. 1788. This tract, of which aDout 25 acres , Rlsl .
ire cleared, is of good foil, situated on the Tomagua, or IND ,
Little Schuylkill, well watered and timbered, on which is A
ereded a good log dwelling house and stable. Com]
No. a. A trattof unimproved land, containing - T1
cres with allowance, &c. called Hopewell, patentedi»Bth
Oflober, 179©, situated in Brunfwick townftup, Berfts s . ptc
COHHty, foil gOO(J'. ■ .-A. ~
No. 3. A trafl of unimproved land, containing 376 a
cres with allowance, &c. called HUlfburg, patented aSth r
Oflober 1790, situation, &c. #s No,z. JH
No. 4. A trad ef unimproved coptainin £ 3Sß -
eres, Ac. patented xßth of OA.ber, 1786, centra
Situation, &c as No. 2 and 3* r
No .5. A trad of land, containing if* acres, and 57
perches, with allowance, &c. situated in BTunfwicktown- <
ship, Berks county, on ,Tomagua, or iHtle Schuylkill, 5 5
miles above the town «f Hamburg, or.which is erefledla _SO
well fmifljed two story fquaredlog dwelling h ® u £> "
feet by 35, within the distance efioo percheUrema forge, ao
with the advantage of a ferry and public house; these ad
vantages render this traift very valuable.
No 16. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed with a polt
and rail, or board fence, containing in front, 60 feet, -and *33*
in depth 18® feet, fubjeft to a ground rent of 7/6 per an- 4°lS
" I No. 17. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed as no-16, to 63J0 1
which it adjoins, being of the fame dimensions, and fabjeft By c
to the fame ground rent, on which is ere<sted a og . a > 1 £ .
x' b 1? feet erion 1
No. 18. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No. 17, foregoi
a corner lot, framing on Main and Schuylkill streets. d,- to r.tu
mentions the fame as No. 16 and" V , above described, sub- m the 1
jed to io/o per annum ground rent. On this iot is er- in thi
ededa large a story dwelling house, *J feet front on Main Hi
street, by 34 feet in depth on Schuylkill street, pleasantly conuw
andadvantageoufly situated for a store.
N. B. The above described three town lots will be fold south w
separately or together, as may bed suit the purehafers.
Conditions of sale—One third sf the purchafc money
to be raid to the fubfenbers, or either of them in Philadel
phia, at or before the expiration of one month from the
day of sale, when a deed of conveyance will be executed ;
the residue payable in i&jual payments, at 6 and «4 months
with interest.the payment whereof to be secured by mort- —
' 1 jag e on the premises.
James Henderfon, ~~j Afligntes t»
Frederick Monlmollin, (the estate of I
'Thomas Rogers, f J ames & Wm - £V
JofethD. Drinker,' J "ar. XAV!
Septenbfr s6. m&th. Clt, rh
-■ ' daily
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
Souchong Jp
Hyson Skin / _ wl " =
Young Hyson > [ FRESH TEAS
Hyson and \ '
Imperial }
Yellow Nankeen*
China Ware, afTorted in Boxes and Chests P r s~
Qniekfilver . '
Bandarino Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
'C 1 Market 7 MADEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, hog&eads, & T]
New-York Market ) quarter casks the t
TeneriSe Wine in pipes and hog&eads- _ ~ requ
Sugar Candy by the Box £
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8 exec
Lead in lheets largi
3 Casks of Cutlery alTorted himi
A few chests of Manchester aflorted thick- fervi
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c. ingl;
3 Small packages of black fewing-fiiks P
8 Tierces Virginia .Snake-root. —
Nails alTorted in calks r
July 18 mw&f
Brokers Office, and fj\
COMMISSION STORE.
Ho. 6% South Third ftreet,oppofite the national new Bank.
SAMUEL M FRAUNCES and JOHN VAN REED, I aft:
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of . ' U PI
FRAUNGCS & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers, P u "
' Conveyancers and Commission merchants. They buy and j P alc
fell on commission every species of stock, notes of hand, j *
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c. " »
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds cf 1 " '
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and f
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the ; "
sioft correa manner. Constant attendance will be given, j"
They solicit a (hare of the public favor ; they are deter- " I
mined to endeavour to deserve it. '
N. 3. The utmost secrecy observed. " <
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, "«
JOHN VAN REED. " !
Philad. August 27, I 79 6 - m&wtf <
« j
Noiu Pubbfbing by the Printer,. .1
At No. 3, LliEtitia Court, delivering to Subscribers,
and to be had at the different Book-Stores in this City, In
Berriman & Co's
CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF "
The HOLY BIBLE. «
Contiining the Old and N3W
• Testaments and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes ancf re
ercncrs. An Index ;or an account-os the meft j
p34a"P3in the'old and new Testament, pointing to the places
wherein they happened, and to the places of fcriptuie where
' in they arc recorded.—A Table of Time.—Tables of fcrip
tnremealures, weights and coins ; with an appendix,contain- ' "
ino'the method of calculating its MiASUSisof surfaces "
hit/Kilo wantingin TttatifA on this fuijeci. A Table of Ojjius «
and CondiHorii of mefl. _
CONDITIONS w
1. The si« of this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIO, n
printed cn a beautiful new type, and good paper, made par- a
ticulsrlyfor it, It will be published in Numbers, notto ex- r.
teed 30, one of which will be delivered weekly to fubferib- It
ers, at a'quarter of a dollar. Those fubferibers who prefer
receiving nn. «—' k
the fame on anj of the fubfcnption papers In rhe Bookltores
Ifl this city. . . ■
There wiiibe an advancc in the price, on fubfcrlbing
afteMbefirftof.Auguftnext.
3 Inthecourfcof Work will be givca an elegant
Fronlifpiece— From an Engraving of the celebrated artist,*
G* 1 ON lON.
Bkkriman & Co. gratefQllyacknowledge,tbe very liberal
encouragement they have met with; and have reason to believe '
that the -x<-cution of their edition will answer every expec
tation. and Jpeai Itsttvn fraift.
May 26 fliweow.
IV A K T E D,
Aa APPRENTICE to tjic Fritting Bujlnefs.
Enquire at this Office: Aug. 9 [
&*••.■!« *•
Turks-Island Salt, W
W
Jy l„dirth»rt= .t P,K.«rjt «*« «°» tmh|i
P**" JebußomngfwnbVCo.
I Sept. 13. _j
A Manufa£tory FOR SALE.
A V.1..W. SOAP J-CMJDU
I materials, and mav b- to aDD I v at No. 273,
_ I who with to pure ha ie, are rcquefted to apply
, I South Second Street. t t f
I September 13* -
City of Waihington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR {he IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
:r i FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,c00 dollars, & 7 O)0CQ £/
'°'{ dwelling-hoiife, } cash 30,000, are ) , quire'
>0 1 ditto 15,000 & cafb 25,000 40,000 the p
50 1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000 Th
r ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000 delay
30 I ditto c,OOO & ca(h 5,000 10,000 n Qtic(
£} 1 ditto 5.000 & c&lfc 5»ooo 10,000 Su,
0 1 cash prize of I0 ' 000
0! 2 do. 5,000 each, are • ro.ooo the b
f 10 do. 1,000 - -
jo I 20 do. s«° - - I0 ' 00 °
00 do. soo - - 10,000
' 400 do. 5° - ■ * o,o °°
50 I 400 do. 25 " 0,0
h- 1,000 do. 20 i - >o.oo°
it-j i 5 ,00e do. 10 - - 150,000
he j
; m I i 5,739 Prizes.
Ed I 3^ i6l Blanks. y
Bts I • —— i_
„| 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000 N
' lU , '. t Chin
ces I N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity ot „ |c
6 . 4 Tickets,the prize of-40,000 dollars will be the last drawn Dup
:k " I ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one : Baf ,
And approved notes, securing payment m either mon«) Cofl ..
Jor prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received for. Bam
j any number not less than 50 , —-7 Roll
rs -} vtlt afford an ciagant specimen 01 the pri- g e
J vate buildings to be ere&ed in the City of Washington--
J Two beautiful designs are already fele&ed for the entire
J fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
j it is proposed to ereel two ccntre and four Corner buildings,
las soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to convey r
len I them, when complex, to the fortunate adventurers, in
■pY I the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
I A nett deduction of five per cent, wiilbe made to defray
( the necessary expenses 9f printing, &c. and the furpius V*
t t j will be made a part of the fund intended for the Natianal cont
1r I University, to be creded within the city of Waihington. alle]
• The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are and
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty day# larg
I after it is fimlhsd ; and any prizes for which fortunate ftor
: n . 1 numbers attract produced within twelve months after the doo
f' 1 drawing is closed, arete be considered as given towards ny 1
' ' the fund for the-Univerfity ; it being determined to fettle ;ir_,
tith the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw- ovs
a ing, and to take up the bonds given as fedirity. wit
> The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes, are;
r n are held by th« President and two Diredc.rs of the Bank COl
1 of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a- brii
y f, e mount of the lottery. ing
ar The twenty four by appointment of . i»-»
. ihe lat? CommilPorrcr? -atfiffed in the management ot W pai
l f Hotel Lottery <ire requested to undertake this arduous talk ma
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num dw
, let of th«fe having kindly accepted.it is hoped that the a n<
'I friends to a National University and the other federal ob- lafl
* r: :Je4ts may continue to favor the design. _ bal
3 By accounts received from the different parts ox the ho'
' in t Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets the
,j a have been sent for sale, the public are assured that the in
f drawing will speedily commtnae, and that the care and go
caution unavoidably necelTlfy to insure a fafe disposal of ro
th« tickets, has rendered the (nort fufpetifion indispensable. mi
f SAMUEL BLODGET.
™Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; 0 Al
James Weft &Co. Baltimore; of Peter Oilman, Boston
'* of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
c °r Cooper's Fvry. eo ~
sums —
f f>* Watson's Answer to Gibbon.
n *e Jisr RECEIFED, ,
to ™ And for i'ale by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftrSet, ±
r f he Apology for Ghriftianity, g
In a feriet ef Letters, addrejjed to
s EdwaHii Esq.
pt , eTl j Author of tlie History of the Decline and Fall of the ot
u ' Roman Empire: 31
thtu " By R. WATSON, d. d. f. r. s. Bishop of Landaff.
itc 0 (Price 75 cents bound )
■ Watfcm's Answer to Paine,
me To be had at the fame place. _
e year The enemies ef Rjhgion are awake Let not her
heori- Sept. 1. mw&ftf
tw "" NOTICE. ft
x ade- Subscriber, having been reduced in his circuit
demp- JL .{Ranees, by fun dry misfortunes, and being thereby
nuable to lltisfy his jnll debts, hereby give* notice to his v
uat of and to all pcrfons concerned, that intends to v
ablifli- a pply to the General x\ffcmbly of Maryland at tJieir next
va dfc- f e fli on to be held on the firfl Monday of November next.
>ly c for the benefit of an a«fl of insolvency.
P ublic WIJLLIAM EDMONDSON
g form Eafton, ift of the Qth month, 1796. lawtiftMN
IZ;L1 Z ;L To be fold, l
' \ in of Woodbury, Coun-
MX. tyof Gloucester, and ltateof New-Jersey, contain.- j
ful At- m S ahout one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
bicb u-e t'°" of which is woodland and improved meadow. A \
jing the -g reat P art of tl>e arable land is in a high state of cultira- ,
line- the tion . ver y natural to the production of Red Clover. ,
Loans '° n plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house, ,
iC tain-' w 'th four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under
ower of the whole ; together with a barn, cern-cribs and carriage
or attjr- hsufe. I'he garden is large, and contains a good collec
It do all £ ' ou 'he belt kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees ;
'yingand 'he orchardconfiftsof about.three hundred grafted app'e
laivjul- trees- Any person inclined to purchase said premises, may
be informed of the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER.
J u| y a 9 . ji
To be Sold,
Al No. 128, North Second-Street, and by federal 0/
. the Apothecaries in this City.
ne J 0 • rpRANSFERS of the right ro remove pains and inflamma
-1 tions from the human body, asfecured to Dr. EUSHA
and affixy | PERKINS, by patent, with instruments and directions nc
j ceffary tor the practice. This mwde of treatment is particu
ns twen- i ar jy u feful in relieving pains in the head, face, teeth, brcail,
ire&ions stomach, back, rheumatisms, recent gouts, scc.
Notwithstanding the utility of this praflice, it is not ore-
I, fumed but there are cases in which this and every otkci 1
Statu. teibedy may fometimw fail, j
'Hy. June 1.. „ aw
I.
Washington Canal Lottery,
N°. I
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walliington, from th Po
tomac to the Eastern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz 'I Prize of 10,000 dollars, 20,c00
I ditto 10,000 io,odb
7 last drawn "> Q 35,000
Tickets, each J
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
IO ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 s,coo
55 ditto 5° 2,750
575° ditto 12r 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,250
) <850 Prizes,
u6jo Blanks, not two to a prize.
"
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
£5" The CommilTioneri have taken the Securit re
quired by the aforefaid ail for the pun&ual payraer.r of
the prizes.
The drawing of dusLottery? will commence, without
delay, as soon '?.» tl*> Tickets are fold, of which.tLndy
nQtice' will be given. ~. . , . ,
Such prizes as are not demanded in llx months alter tha
drawing is finiihed, (hall be c.-mfidered as'—litjquifhed for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J NO t'LEY YOUNG,
1 MANJEL CARROLL, 0 /D.
LEWIS DEBLG3R,
GEORGE WALK ER,
Wm. 'M. DUNCANS ON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMBS BARRY.
City of Walhingtoji, Feb. 11.
Mordecai Lewis
HAS FOR S-dLE,
NANKEENS, fcng and fliort.
f China, well assorted.
0 Quicksilver.
Diapers
Baftas. •
Coflas.
01 Bandano_Hajidl££rjuuefs.
T RoTT Brfmftone.
"■ se P t. 6. •
— f ■
J -For Salc,-
g Sj A LARGE EtECANT 4ND WELL FINISHED
'Z Three-story Brick House,
ry. (The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
■ay TTTITH a LOT of GROUND thereunto belonging,
!us' W the Weft fide of Thim-ftreet, near Union-street
nal containing in front 33 feet, and in depth 100 feet, to an
1. alley leading into Union-ftrcet. The house is 32 feet frnnt
are and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
ay# large, commodious, and completely finiihed; the two full
■ate stories are each 13 feet high; there are ao mahogany
the doors in the house ; a-geometrical staircase, with mah'ega
rds I. Ny rails ai\d a gsod flcy-light. The kitchen is in the celi
ttle arj Which is spacious and convenient, and finifhcd with ah
iW' oven, (lew-holes .?nd pantries, a servants* hall and large
I wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, ia front of which' is an
zes ; j area in which there ii a pump. The yard is vaulted,
ank Communicating with the said building is a neat three-story
: 2- brick home, on the north fide of Union-street, contain
ing 30 feet front hy ao feet deep; the lower part of which
tof I ; s ;,t nrefer' occupied ui a compting-Tiot , and he upper
tlfe ] parTdlvTded into large chambers. This house
talk I may at a ; small expense be converted into a convenient
um dwelling: Theftreetdooris vet v h-~Uaiae. and the fccct
the and back have Venetian windoW-fhutterß. .-V-',.-—-■ ! fie
1 ob- last house, upon the lot belonging to the firfl, arc creeled
j bathing-rooms, &c. There are lftewile very good coach
' the I house and (lables finished equal (or nearly so) with any in
:kets the city, on a lot containing on Union ftrcet 30 ieet, nnd
the in depth 011 the waft fide of said alley 52 feet,
: and good cellars undei the whole of the buildings, and av. aie
il of roam over part of theliable, With a hay-lot over there;
able, mainder. Fob further particulars enquire of
I EDWARD UONSaLL & Co.
1 ; o At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut & Pttf
(ton t'&f
Veils ] 6th month 24th, 1796.
— FOR SALE.
A PLANTATION,
\ BOUT 12 miles frotn this City, situate in Abi&g*
trfcet, 1 x\_ ton Townftiip, Montgomery-County ; containing
j 70 asres, a new stone house, two (lories high, 2 rooms on a
} J floor, lire places in csch» a lione .kitchen and (lone faring
I house, over an excellent fpririg of water, a barn, (tables,
I Cheds, barracks, &c. A large apple orchard, and a variety ot
f the j other fruit, about 12 acres of good meadow well watered,
I and wood Sufficient for fire, and fencing the place. .PoffciTi
ldaff lon ma y Apiiluext. Property in this city
will be taken in exchange, or MORRIS and.NICHOLSONS
I Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Street.
| Philadelphia, September 13, 1796, ttftf
WANTED,
tftf j ,2 Far any term from one to four jmjrr,
I A HOUSE, pleasantly fituatcd In any of i.'bc principal
I streets \vithin the pavement, 2nd not very distant Ironi
•curti I the iitate-Houfe, capable of accommodating a small fami
er«by I 'y ! th® house mud have ftablcs and and
to his would be required to be ready by the firll week in No;
ids to I verobsf next —Eutjuire of the printer.
r next Sept. 14. t:f
• next. I
0N j F 0 R SAL E,
«mn A. very Valuable Eltate,
I /CALLED TIVITT£ A r HA M, situate in the
j A townlhip of Upper Derby, andcountyof Delaware,
Coun- J ~ j.j miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
>ntain- | new Wefternroad: containing 230 acres of excellent land,
ropor- I of which are good watered meadow, 9® of prime wood
'v* A 1 '.and, and the reil arable of the firft quality. There are
ultiva- J on £he premlfes a good two flory brick house, with 4 rooms
Mover. I on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
house, jof excellent water in front; a large frame barn, ilablcs,
under | an( j other convenient buildings; a imokerhoufe and flone,
rriage- | fpring-hoiife ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
collec J 6S< The fields are all in crGver, except thofc immediately
■ trees ; | under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
a PP !e ~ |of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly coa
:s, may I venient'for grazing.
1 The situation is pleafantandhealthy, and from the high
•R. I cultivation cf the land, the good neighbourhood, andj^he
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman'® *
' country fe.it.
The foregoing is part <►£ the e'ftate of Jacob Karmanj
rral of <* ecca f € d> ant l offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
lamma Ofl. 9. tt&f Surviving Executor.
LISHA
3ns ne- ..m 1 . I in..;,
particu- _
: br:ait, PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
not pre- y —~No« I I
y otto _
CHtSKBT-STREBT,
' aw (.Price Eight Dollars per Annum.}