I of the tUttitfctJ 6 s Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Dumber 1264.] TUESDAT EVENING, SEPTEMBER 1% i 79 6 - [VOLUME X.
ct.-.. , ■I ■ " 1 — * . -.1.1 . 1" 1
cfa— ■ .11 ——
The Brig DIANA, . Jh
Ljmg at Chefnut-flreet wharf; a stout
well built vessel, ene hnndre<l & fifty-eight tons burthen ; i
well found, and but four years old. Apply to ■, '
Joseph Anthony y Co. irc
ISept. 16- d 6 J
For Sale, j»S
IjSL IND UST RY, Mah<
Burthen about 700 bb!«. a good *ef- I fortm
fel, and will be ready to take in a car- 1 Sc;
go in two or three days. Also, I
FOR S>ALE,
A few hhds. ANTIGUA RUM, received by
said Hoop, and now lf-nding at Morton's wharf. Apply to I
THOMAS GREEVES,
Sept. 44. dfe. N0.73, Walnut-ftfeet. J beral
_ — I Se
For Charter, —
KiJSSIIk The Ship Dominick Terry,
■ fßr'Jacob De Hart, mailer : an excellent I Ret
of aliout 3000 barrels burthjn. I
JeJfe £9° Robert Wain. ioT
September sr. d I i! '^
For Sale, Freight or Charter,
-jThe Ship General Walhiiigton, J
Now discharging her cargo from Liver- p 0
%T pool at Rots'. Wharf—She is} tart fail- I Au
j n g jy,j an( J ma y o e s en t to sea at a small I
expenve, having been decked and rtfi ted in Liverpool.
Apply to
Kearny Wharton.
Who has For sale on said ship, 1 T T"
* A few thousand Bulhels Salt and Coal. O.
_ ,ic Mer
'9- _ hew
For Charter, sc
The Danilh Barque Beneventura, St
Samuel Stub, matter, I Sc
good vessel, of about two hundred B;
'tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERi WAI.N. I Li
Sept. 17- dtf *
• FOR LONDON, s.
The capital ship CERES, U
* fail soon:—For freight of passage Fi
pply to DAW, ROBERTS 3c Co. or | tr
"John Vaughan,
September io. Front-street. I
FOR SALE,
■£fc The (hip STAR, L
T OHN Vahneman, Matter, rp,
T VINO at Walnut-ftrset wharf, Philadel
g~:<S I j phia built, of live oak and cedar, will p
carry about 3100 barrels, is two years old, and in com
pica: order to receive a cargo—For terras apply to
THOS. & J")HN KETLAND.
Who have also for sale said vessels cargo—confining of—
Wine and Porter bottles, 7
Wind.AV G ass, 6 by 8 to »6 by Xl.
Pipes in boxes I F
Earthen-Ware in crates.
Grindstones, Coals, Whiting, See. I s
Aug. 29 - .. .j . 1 rece
"brandy, n
OF lft and 4 th proof, and equal in quality to that import
ed froAi France, may be had of the fubferiber at his Diftil
ilery, No 115, St ny or New rtreet between Third and I
Fourth-streets. Where the public, ppon application, inay I
for themselves, and will find it an object well worth
their attention -
RUM and GIN in any quantity, for exportation or home J"
consumption, and of fupeiior quality —by
Thomas Cave. I
!P. S RYE, MALT, BARLEY, and MELASSES, will
be purchased, or taken in exchange for lpirits> upon appli- in
cation as above. Also any quantity of Cliret or other wine
fit for distillation.
i«uguft29h f 1796. M4W I
LANDING,
From on board the Brig REBECCA, Dominic Davine, I
Master, at Philip Care's Wharf, and for Sale by the
Sutifcriber,
London Particular Madeira WINE,
In Pipes, Hoglheads and Quarter Calks.
There are in the above parcel 10 Hhds. of CHOICE |
OLD WINE, fit for immediate life. 1 ~
Robert Andrews,
Sept. 6. mw&f No. 86, £0. Wharves.
Mew-iingland Rum, N
In hogfhesds,
Wellb's best Boflon Chocolate, th
And [ bn
HYSON-SKIN TEA, in quarter chcfts,
FOR SALE, BT J"
A. MARPLE 53" ISR. W. MORRIS, F<
No. 60. Dock-street. I ex
S'P*- eo6t - . , ar
John Whitefides & Co.
Have for Sale,
Venetian Red,
Spanish Brown, | .
White Lead, ground in oil: J
Shot, No. I, i, 3. 4. 5- I
London Porter, ip calks and bottle®.
. Green Copperas.
ScvA-al crates of Queens Ware, in setts, with desert I
ditto com;>leat. 1
Blittered Steel,
German dittb.
Sept. SI. I
Washington Lottery. , j n
■ The Twcnty-fecond & Iwenty-third Days' Drawing x>{ cl
the Walltif Jton Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office r;
No. 534, Market-ttrcet, where tickets may be examined, p
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other I
lotteries may be procured.
Sep:embtr C 3, 1796- *" I r
To be disposed of, .
THE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who 1 ?
has between f«ur and five years to serve: She J r
can be rccommencktl for her i'obriety and honelly. For j
particubvs enquire at No. 13 Chcfnut-ftrect.
A.ugu.1 3. wjcltf
Thomas Ryerfo^
I TTAS j i-\ft received,by the Ihtps Molly and Hamburgh
j JTI Packet from Liverpool, and the Ligjht Horse .from |
Bristol, and is now opening for sale, at his ftorc No.
177, Market-ftrcet, an extensive assortment of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Hardware th fj
and Saddlery. fi° n
The ship Caroline, now on h»r palfage from Liverpool
j to Philadelphia, brings the remainder of bis fall impor-
I tation.
I N. B. At the above store may be had, a few elegant c £
Mahogany Cases for Tablo Furniture ; also, a good as- u
I fortment'of the bell kinds of Knives and Fork*.
Sept. 23. d
'NANKEENS, A
Of the firj quality, FOR SALE BY, Mefl
RD. and JAS. POTTER. n °p,
For any quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, a li-
I beral credit will be given. R. & J. P.
I September 13. T. tf a]
French Goods.
Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Hamre-de- ( }
Grace, able
110 ,1' r11S 1 Ladies' SHOES of all colors forts and sizes
|yl Cafe j ,
I 1 Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKING 3
I I Ditto Fine LAWN • r
I Ditto bed fine CAMBRIC
I I Ditto Ladies' bed lhammy and Grenoble Gloves
For Sale.by THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
AUg. S4 §
Wm. HOLD ERNESSE,
No. 7 6 High Street,
I TT AS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
I n the East Indies, a well fele<fted assortment of Silk
1 Mercsry, Linen Drapery and HaVerdafhery Goods ; which
j he will fell, Wholcfale and Retail, on the lowclt terms ; ]
J amongst which are,
I Some fine India mutlins embroidered with gold and frlver -—
j Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
' I Do do do do Handkerchiefs
I Solrie extra black taffetiesjluteftringsand colored Persians Th<
I Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and short Nankeens
Englilli Mantuas of the firft quality A
"I Damalk table linen and napkins, very fine -l- ~
j Silk Hosiery, an elegant assortment
Thead and cotton do A
I Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth
° j French cambrics, very fine
r Irish Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 §
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the bejl quality and on reasonable terms,
FOR SALE BY
Philip Nicklin Sf) 5 Co. J
Atiguf: 26. dtf
. The Cargo of the Pblacre Independent,
II /CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant ind Lif
— bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
28 Pipes of Brandy
I 18 Bcles of Spanilh wool
— I <3 do. of Annifeed
I 7000 Bulhels of belt Lilbnn Salt ' (
I 80 Boxes of Lemons i
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS. a
ALSO,
j Seventy Hoglheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
I received by the fbip Dominick Terry, Capt. DeHart,
) from Kingston. r
Sept. 13. d r
l ' : CABLE S, o?
I mi
,y from 16 to 9 i inches, for sale by
h Jeremiah Warder, pr
ie 1 July ii § No ii northThird-ftreet. to
| FOR SALE, -
I ' .
ill WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old,
in pipes and hoglheads
ue j Claret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Hollan'3
_ r Earthen Ware, in crates - 1
Balket Salt, in hoglheads
J Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9 of
ie > j Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead ar
he j Steel, German and Raffia, in barrels P<
Anchor l ;, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas, J 1
1 Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by
TIIOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. "
:e J"'y x § f'
Lottery and Broker's Office,
No. 64, South Second street.
— j '"THICKETS in the Caiial Lottery, No. a, for sale—a
I X Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
J the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and rejiftering, for
I the City of Walhington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
I both of which are now drawing—information where
J tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
I tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
I Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
' I examination.
The fubferiber foKcits the application of the public
— j and his friends, who wish to purchase or fell Bank Stock,
j Certificates. Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
I &c. or to obtain money on deposit of property p
Wm. Blackburn.
I Philadelphia, Augufl 18, mth
For £ale, I
The Time of a Negro Man, [
!ert I Who is a good Cook. • Enquire at No. 109, South (
I Water-Street. I
I Sept. 23. dio 1
_ W A N T E D,
I A Middle-Aged WOMAN, who can be well recom- ,
j mended, to take charge of the entire management of ,
r of j children—Such a person will meet with suitable encou
ffice I ragement, aitd may hear of a place, by applying to the
led. I printer of this Gazette.
her Sept. 14. mwf
Diflolution of Partnership. 4
— I "TPHE Partnerlhip between ROBERT ANDREWS and
j » DAVID MEREDITH, under the firm of ANDREWS
, I and MtREDITH, being diflolved All persons who are
I indebted to, or who have claims against ihe laid house, are
j requested to apply lor ftttlemcnt to the fubferiber.
For [ ROBERT ANDREWS,
t No. 86, So. Whatves.
1 5ept.6,1796. d tf
For Sale,
(In an excellent fixation for bullncfs,)
A three-story brick House and Lot of p
Ground, j Seorj
Eighteen feet front and twenty-five feet in depth, on Carol
'he South fide of Market near Froat-ftruet, now in peffef- Sherr
Son of Samuel Read. Rave
Apply to Indio
Israel Pleafants, or Scwii
Charles & Joseph Pleafants. L g','j
Sept. 13. d'f
♦ For Sale,
A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, io Chefnut jj
street, between Front and Second ftrafts, in which J(9
Messrs. JamesCalbraith 3c Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried onbufinefs.
Possession willbe given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April 11. 5_ J a
A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's place is wanted by a person properly quali
fied, andwhofe charafler will be found unexception
able. Apply to the Printer.
Aug. II tf B:
■ 2 — : — : — Who
Dutch Goods, n.
Received by the Pennsylvania, from Airjlerdam.
GIN, in pipes
Morlaix B 1
Ticklenburgs > In Bales
Ofiiaburgs j
& }
iK'S" } DUCK, in dil'o To
■Bedticks, in ditto
Brittagnes > in ditto The
Platillcß \
Eor Sale by THOMAS JOHN KETLANT).
. r AUg. 19 — i_ Ui
Sales of India Goods. —
s The Cargo of the IWp Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal- (
cutta and Bengal,
consisting or
ALaree and general assortment of Bengal and Madras A,,,-
CO ITON and SILK GOODS. .
AMONG \YMICH ARE i\
A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins,
Doreas, fjfe. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, g e :
In boxes and "bags-—and BLACK. PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings Francis, A
No. 21 Penn Street. —
June 8 §
—— ]
JUST A RRIVE D, from Lisbon,
5 And for Sale by the Subscribers, A ,
Lilbon Wine,
In pipes and quarter-caik.s }-
5000 13ufhels Lisbon Salt. j
feffe iff Robert Wain. ~
. ' Sept. TO. dtf
At a special •meeting of the BoarTof Di~ s
; rjeflozr for ejlabltfoing ufrfu I Manufactures, ho/den _
at Paterfon, July 8, 1 '
RESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock
holders of the Society be/ callud on the firll Monday,
being the third ay of October next, at Paterfon, by ten
of the clock of the fame day j then and there tA take
into Consideration the propriety of dissolving the said Fill
corporation, agreeably to the law in such cafe made and
provided—and the Stockholders are earnestly rcqutfted Pla
to attend the said meeting in person or by proxy. Co
Augtift 17 dt3othO Dit
d. DUTY ON CARRIAGES. A 1
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably lo an aft of Congtcfs of the United
States of America, passed at Philadelphia, the 28th day —
of Mav, 1796 ; layin; duties on Carriages, for the convey
ance of persons, and repealing the former acts for that pur
pose there fliall be levied, colkfted and paid, upon
all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which fliall be j y
' kept by or for any person, for his or her own use, or to let . .
out to hire, or for the conveying of the fcveral du-
ties and raftes folio w ing, to wit.
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon eveVy Chariot, 12 dols.
upbn every Port Chariot, 12 dols/
upon e*ery rod C'naife, 12 T a
upon every Phaeton, with or without top, 9 dols qu
—a upon every Coachee, gdols. eh
in upon other Carriages, having panne i work above, Pi
with blinds, glasses or curtains, 9 dols. or
for upon tour wheel carriages, having framed posts and
e9) topi with lleel springs, 6 dols.
, re ' upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
tVn springs or jacks, 3 dols.
w . upon curricles w.itn tops, 3 dols/
j- Qr upon chaises with tops, 3 dols. lr
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols,
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols.
', upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 clofa.
c ' upon two wheel with steel or iron springs,
ds ' 3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel carnages, 2 dols.,
upon every four whe- 1 carriage, having framed pofls
x and tops, and rcftiug upon wooden (pars, 2 idols. _
— The Coile&ors of the Revenue ot the firft furvev of the °
Diftrift of Pennsylvania, will attend daily* uni il the 36th day
/of September next, for the purpolc of rece r i:>g the duties on P
Carnages, at No. 117, in Race or SafTafrai street, in the City c
ot Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clan, fc/cj in the
u -h County ot Montgomery ; and at the house of Abraham Du
bois, Esq. *rt the County of Bucks; of which all persons pos
sessed of f«ch Carriages are desired to take notiee.
Notice is also given, i,
TO all retail dealer, in Wines, and foreign distilled fpiri
3m" tUoui tiqaorj, that licences will be granted to them ) one li f
tof cence for carrying on the bufincfs oi retailing of Wines, in a ,
:ou less quantity, or in leU quantiiics than go gallons—and one j
the licence for carrying od the bufinelj of retailing Spirituous li
quors in lefi quantities than 50 galk>ns, at the fame time and
r( at the fame-places, by the officers legally authoriaed to grant
such licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Jn( l r Infpeflor of the Revenue of the firft funrey
\VS of the dillrifl of Pennsylvania.
> are Office of Itifpeflion, at )
, are Philadelphia, gift J"lvi >796- )
W ANTE D,
An APPRENTICE to $e Prirting Bufnefs.
tf Enquire at this Office. *»£• 9
• • •
F O R SAL E,
By N. and J. FRAZIER,
Ni. 95, S. Front-llreet,
Prkne Boston Beef, in barrels.
Georgia Cotton.
Carolina P-ice and Indigo.
Sherry and Tebetiffe Wiries, of excellent quality*
Ravens Duck.
Indio Bawdanno's.
Sewing Silks, various colours.
Coffahs and Gurrahs.
Sspt. 17. tt;-r.v.
For sale by the jhblcribers,
IN ?t N fc-STK E FT,
130 quarter Chests frefh Ilyfjr. Tea ;
100 ditto ilo. frcfh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxe9 China, containing small of 44
pieces;
400 pieces Bandanoes.
Willings Iff Frtincis.
January 30 tt&f
FOR SAL E.
PORT WINE, and
HOLLAND GIN. of 'he firft qualities in Pipes.
FRAUNCES and VAN REED.
Brokers and CommilHen Merchants, No. 63, So. 3d St.
Who discount approved NOTES of hand.
N. B. All APPRENTICE Wanted.
September 14. mwf
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By W, YOUNG, MILLS and Son,
Corner of Second and Chefnut Jit eels,
Price 12 1-2 cehts, '
The Prefid* nt's Address
To the People of the United States,
INTIMATING
The rcfolntion he has f#rmed to decline being confidcred
among the number of those out of whom a choice is to
be made, at the ensuing election of a Prefidcnfc of the
United States.
c ~~sept. 2C. tvs6
- y .
Great is Truth and mu/i y^enail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
8 And for sale at Nr 41 Che/nut-Jlreet by J. ORMROD,
An Apology for the Bible,
3 By R. Watson, z>. d. f. r. s.
Bijbop of LanAaff, &c.
Being a complete refutation of Paine's
Age of Reason,
A«id the only answer to the Second Part.
AugUst 30.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By W. Young, Mills and Son, '
[Price 50 cts. in boards, 62 1-J neatly bound]
An Apology for the Bible^
Itt a series of Letters,
Addrefred to Thomas Piine, author of a book entitled
The Age of Rea/on, part the second, being an in
■veftigation of true nnd fukdovs theology.
By R. WATSON, D. D. F. R. 3. Lord Bishop <>(
Lartdaff, and Regius ProfefFor of Divinity
" ~Ti. Itrt -X _
Sept. 16. t'J&to _
India Tamboured Muslins.
y. A finally handsome ajfortment of Mujlins f
ke Viz
id Fiile tamboured Malda and Santipore Muflini, various
jd patterns and prices. .
cd Plain 6-4 Jaconet.
Corded and cross-barred Muslin Shawli.
Ditto ditto 6-4 and 4-4 Dorcas.
Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarse.
Japan Muslins, and
A few pieces extraordinary fine Long Cloths.
-I FOR SALE BY
Thomas T'mgey,
No. 111, SouthThird-ftreet.
Ed Sept la. tutf&f
'I TO BE SOLD,
■r- That Neat and Convenient House,
on TT THEREIN the fabferiber now lives. There aietouf
be YY rooms on a g oor : the house is two stories high
with a good garr«t above : under the whole is an excell
,U" ent cellar, with a dry well, in which is a convenient
framed chamber for preserving meat, butter, &c. in warm
weather. Attached to the house is a Stable for three
horses, hay-los , granary, and carriage-house, a wood
yard paved with (ione, and a garden with foil of a fine
quality. All indisputable title will be made to the pur
chaser. For farther particulars apply to the ftibfcriber in
ve, Princeton, or. in her absence ts Thomas D. Johnson, Esq.
or the rev. Sam«el S. Smith,
ind ANN WITHERSPOON.
Princeton, Aug 24. 2awtO
on __
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and diftrift of
SoUTHVVARK, J
Published, and fold bv
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 63, High street, '
(Price one dollar.)
ioOs THlSplahis 26 inches fquare,.and has been en"}
nls - graved by one of the firft artists in the city, from a late
' he and accurate fiirvey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam»
. phlet with each plan, giving " foirte account of the
CUv cit y» ' ts population, trade, government, &c.
the July 19 . tu&ftf
D- TAKE NOTICE.
? °" pHE fubferiber intend? to make application for a re*
1 newal of the following certificate, supposed to be
loft on the passage to England in April 1794 :
P"i- Certificate No. 10335, dated 13th Nqvember, 1793*
E'• for 2830 dollars and 92 cents: —Six per cent; domcftic
a debt, on the books of the Treasury of the United States,
°? c in the name of the Hon. John Trevor.
» I'" ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's.
an Philadelphia, August 30th, 1796., *tu&f6w
' ra,,t "W X'Nl E DT -
Tut re JOURNErMEN £00K-BINDERS,
OOD ftftdy workmen will meet with constant em
ployment,and good wages ;by applying to JOHN"
CURTIS, No. 43, North Fourth-street.
N. B. BOOK-BINDING in all its different branches,
executed with neatness and dispatch. Public and private
r S. libraries repaired i» the neatest and best manner.
September»«. t & a\vFrom the (London) Courier.
THE PAINS OF MEMORY.
. TSXTRACT FROM MR. MERRY'S POEM ON THE
PAIN 3OF MEMORY.]
Down in yon glade, befidetHat glassy pool,
There stands, and long has stood, the village school;
k " •Hark ', the gay murm'rings ef the sportive tram,
, Freed from restraint that gambol o'er the plain ;
Lift their ftirill voices, and their burits of gl=«,
Will future years recal their extacy ?
'Perchance some one, hereaftrc, of the band,
From the brown summit of tlfat jetting land,
Shall eye the well-known spot, the felf fame scene,
And the thin spire that peeps those groves between ;
Sjhill mark the peasant plodding as before,
And.the trim house-wise at the cottage door ;
Shall hear the pausing bell's pathetic toll,
Borne on the gale, announce the parting foul—
Of some oid friend, who to his childhood kind,
T'repar'd the kite and ftream'd it to the wind ;
Some busy dame, for cakes and tuflards known,
Who gave him credit when hit pence were gone ;
Some truant plough-boy, toil,
Toin'd him to seize the tempting orchard's spoil |
Or in dtfpite of peril, spread thefnare,
As thro' the thicket pafs'd the nightly hare j
Then shall he think on all the woes of life,
His thankiefs children, or his faithlefn wife,
His fortune willed, or his"wifiiet croft,
His tender fvrother, sister, parents loft,
Tiliev'ry oWjefl finking intoihade,
He sigh, and call oblivion to his aid.
'1 he buxom lass who late feture from harm,
With gay importance buftledthro' the farm ;
Tended her dairy at the break of dawn,
Or fed jier circling poultry on the lawn 5 _ I
O'er the wafh'd Ik.or the cleanly find let fall,
And brdfn'd theunfeemly cobweb from the wall,?
Who in the hay-time met the lusty throng,
And \v:th her ihare of labour jom'd her song,
To the faint reapers bore the humming' ale,
Or jok'd the threOier leaning on his flail *
By vain ambition Led at leivjth to town,
In quest of fortune, and fuppos'd renown,
If there, the vhftim of some wofthlefs rake,
She chance its sickly pleasures to partake,
Mix'd with the pamper'd crowds,.looks difclaifri
The smile of virtue and the blush of Ihaaie i
Will fee not oft regrrrttlsThearf ji
When sport and freedonyiail'd the approach of May,
And « rural pair beguil'd the hour,
vV ith evening dance beneath the n.oon-light bow'r.
Or to her fadfaie left, condemtt'd to rove
The lawless paths of desultory love;
Will not her tortur'd bofam throb the more,
Whene'er ihe thinks on what (he was before,
And finds recoiling from the insidious joy
A secret canker ev'ry rose destroy.
While all that memory's forcei y can difpeVife
Shall add new pangs to loss of innocence.
fOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fenno,
WE often fee in the papers accounts of the enor
mous expences attending cleftlons in England, and
©ur,indignation is jullly excited at reading the leci
tals. While we execra'e the bribeYy and corruption,
which is there so (hamelefsly pra&iled ; we eo'mlgn
the corrupters to infamy, but the -corrupted, the peo
ple who thus barter their rights and privileges for a
mess of pottage' generally escape censure. There
is one cireumdaace in this business which wants ex
planation ; people are puzzled Jo account /arJLJie '
rmptnruj atleiiaifig'TßTsßaTe" traffic for the fuffra» 1
ges of the people, when they consider that no coun- :
try in the world Las fever.. 1 laws againd bribery and
corruption at elections, than Great-Britain. Let 1
, U3 turn our attention to what paflej under our own '
experience, and fee whether the difficulty cannot be
solved. I
In England the modes adopted for evading the 1
laws are infinitely various, and generally fuceefsful. <
The. Candidates on such occaficns are almott every
wfcere- present, and a perpetual smile or grin enli- i
vens their coufitertanees ; they are " bail fellow
•well mef' "with every man woman and child, and 1
are the bed nafured creatures in the world till elec
lioß is ever—they pay off small debts, fubferibe to s
every charitable inflitntion, repair churches, giiq a
organs, replenish libraries, dilhibute books, pic- i
tures, &c. &c. Mean time their agents are busy and t
alert, in providing entertainments-, giving balls, and f
distributing ribbons, feath#va, rattles, corals for c
children, favors to the Farmers wives and daugh- f
ters, and prizes to the youth who exhibit their
prowels and activity'at the public games. A pro
fufion of liquors is distributed, sea its arc given in all
the public houses, and all at free colt. In this way
Mr. Nobody, cajoles Mr. Every body ; for after all
this genetofity, charity and public spirit, it would f
be little fhost of hellish ingratitude not to give Mr. ]
Somebody youi vote—Now, if nothing like this i 1
ever has happened, or can happen in this indepeu- ;
dent commonwealth, then we may felicitate our- j
felvts that ttiere are none among ns so b.tfe aa to t
afi'ume the, chara£ter of corrupters, or so servile as I
to be corrupted. But if there are of both defcrip- j
1 tions, then we can easily solve the difficulty relative '
ft eluding the laws, without croffisg the Atlantic.
E.
Fram the Farmer's Weekly Musium.
Turn ye, Turn ye.
SO b*Wo«!\s a raethodid preachcr from the north
fraffoid of, neighbor Hobnail's barn lad Sunday.
Hobnail hsd autfefjatid his command, and actual
ly " turned" his beeves and bulls from their flails,
to admit this biped brine wliofc wind allowed him
to out bellow, the ftoutift ox on the farm.
Bet dont laugh,"geniie race of mortals, at the
Sapidity of my neighbor, for I saw a large crowd
of ye, at this fame barn, gaping to the hollow
founds of this hay mow teache«vand if you are not
grofslv belied \ hings of equal emptiness lure long
efljjroifcd much valuable rmc.
There is a Lion twelve miles henceao be fcen,
aud whe would not spend a day, and give nifiepenee,
to fte the Lion ? Dobbin is t.-ken from the plough,
Silas leaves the hay, and Jemima her flax, and all
post off to fee this monstrous " wild >verniin.'' Af
ter a thcufaiid filly qucftions at bis cage, this fenG
ble company return to th«'ir fpinnisg and farming.
Now let ue cekulau the cost ci this journey. a
• Tather and Silas one day . Bs.
Mother and Jtmima m :^ht
have earned at home 4 3,
Old mare and Dobbin 4s.
CcA expendeif for fight&di ink ss.
Cows got into the corn because
all w»re fr»i» home, and de
stroyed to the value 11. 4'* '
Pigs rooted up half an acrc of
potatoes il- lO '
Brood of goflins destroyed by 1
tlawk3 4 '
■ <
£■ 3 >9 6 1
1. 1
Rare sport to fee the Lion, and yet those who 1
farm a crowd about his cage, are the " restless.ones ' v
in society, who growl at the tax which fuppoi ts the v
ufeful parson, or iultrudh the riling generation. I
can almost wish them Daniels fate withaut his pro
tection. My gbod neighbors ftom uicli things,
turn ye, and let lions range the African for ell, and 11
be it yours to range your own farms, and whether c
a methodist rants, a lion growls, or a juggltr per- j
forms, fare your time, reputation and money, for
purposes that create the good citizen and the hap
py life. Believe me, that by " turning" once P
from such things, you turn better property into
your pofTcffions than is gained by a Carver specula
tion, and more contentment into your dwelling, *
than you would acquire seeking after wild beads all
your lives. THE HERMIT I
. C
From the Augusta Chronicle. 11
Mr. Smith, 1
I HEAR Mr. Somebody ha 3 given you the 1
trouble of publilhing a Jmer againlt the proposi
tion for a convention, &c. &c. n
And I have heard* that his flippancy has given °
such offence to some of your fubfciibers, that they 1'
threaten to withdraw their names.
But is not this too precipitate ? Such withdraw- e
ing is a declaration for laying under restraint the
press, -which Jhould be free. And if a people take
the trouble ot forging their own chains, do the,y
nat inside the provHice of /mprudeive ? Whenever
f) a people commit this tiefpafs, they are fute to pay 0
Jmart-meney, one day or other. f'
This is not meant in excuse for this Somebody's "
attempt. Of that, reports are not very mush in
its favor. o
The proportion was thought to b« very inoffen
five. Neither was it founded on abftirdities. The tl
impofObility of persuading all men to think alike, P
was iiot attempted. The principal obje& Was, by "
frequent collision, to wear off that which
ha 3 often wounded, where no wottud. should be
given : And to change into the friendly warmth
of brotherly love, that eoldnefs which often freezes
up the milk of human kindnefn, so honorable in *
-- man, and so essential in a Chrittian. * f {
d Whether endeavors to promote fucli dispositions;
i- or attempts, like that of Somebody, to prevent
1, them, be molt worthy of public approbation, the
n public will ealily determine. F
1. Although a free press fnould be preferred '; yet
a there it a great difference between frjh and licen- J 1
e tioui. V
Every mader of a press is supposed to possess
e the a. fiwim niiUn. • ■ When pieces are
. calculated to create discord ; to bear falfe witness F
. againlt a neighbor; to corrupt youth, and the un
-1 wary, or tend, generally, to loosen moral ofiliga- A
t tions.—in all such eases the matter's veto may be A
i happily applied. ' SI
But, at any rate, they would do well to confide*
that the publicatian of such a piece, may and pro- 10
hably wiii, do an injury, for which uo reconape.»ce
can ever be made. va
This, though, is thrown out only as a him ;
and not obtruded as advice. re
, lam an old man, tottering over the grave. But J e
1 until 1 tall into it, I wifli for <juietnefs and peace.
As 1 wish all men well, I fjmetimes offer a bit re
> of advice. If folly pass it by, unreguarded; I
;< am f«irry for their miftake.—lt may be fatal. But on
. if the wife in their own conceit, endeavor to tor- jul
I ture it on the tack of their ridicule, I breathe a
[ passing sigh, and wish for that time, when a mis- pi
• chief te communities fnall not be found among the
■ children of MEN. an
| ' - From a London paper.
' LIBERTY OF THE SUBJECT. W1
I It is really furpriling that people should bawl f Q
for liberty when there is so much in this kingdom.
•llt is well known all ranks of people possess li
■> \ births which every thinking man mud feriouflt ha
vvslh did not exiit ; and that many ef our liberties fo<
- j trench upon those of other people Several of thi
' i ° ur men have the liberty to run in debt with or
5 I every man who is foci enough to give him crctiit frc
■ j the liberty to refufe payment as long as the, pleas/ rat
t liberty to privilege to protest their wl
■ facredpevfonsfiomthe purfuitof law. But then, pn
on the other hand, some tradesmen have the liber- po
ty of charging so high for their goods, that if they fh,
arc paid once in ftven years, they will still b £ „ a j n . f c |
ers by the bargain, whild others, more conlci.n- flv
tious, have the liberty to be ruined,, and have their th:
names mferted in the gazette, intioduced bv a rci
1 rwhereas.
Many of our clergy have the liberty of enjoy
- ing sinecures, »nd pluralities; v.hilft their lean cu- nl
, rates have the libefty of doing all the duty, a„d ch
i maintaining their families as well a, they can, with m E
forty or fifty pounds a year.
1 Several persons who never saw a sword drawn, by
1 ora fhotfired (except, perhaps, in a duel, or an ch
v imaginary affront, in uefence of the reputation of pi t
t -7 orp " 'l""" 1 »bout cards or dice) th«
f have the liberty ft ilait up at once as military com. th<
mandtrs, and r«fc regiments. For which purpose fl l4
, they have had the liberty to employ crimps— to coi
, trepan the unwary, to seize men who had no other arc
, crime but poveuy drag them from their ha
1 and fend IVm to the aimy Or to tie navy and
: 2
' lulfTf <" " lh «' "f »» -i.tut S,
, ali) take liberty of crowing all public plates, ret
• 1 * 6 1
eltjowy* of reputation, snd ptstheg i»(
lly out of countenance. Of glorying ' n l ' ls " 1 ' "
famy ; and when they grow old thenifekes and part
their trade, of writing their memoirs fur the edifi
cation of youth.
Many more inflaotes of liberty flight be pio
duced ; but thufe few may fuffice to enable us to
fay, thru England is a Land e/ Libtrty.
FRESH IMPORTS FROM IRELAND.
A novel, of nltdefable celebrity, on the ottier
See of the channel, begins in tile following true
5 Hibernian ttvie; " It wa9 one of those delightful
evenings when t?ie"fun was shining is his meridian
5 Tpiendiir, and illuminating with nature's most daz
- ziing tints all the projwfted imprOT«tfierfts of Lord
j Miiford's saptivating place, the paliadian bridge
' which he hath planned, the fine hanging beech
: woods which he intendeth to plant!
NEW HAVp, September .it.
On Wednesday the 14th inft. the public eom
[ mencement was celebrated in this city. At nine
• o'clock, A. M. theprocefTiou moved In the usual
. manner from the college to the brick meeting'*
- koufc.
The foletnnitics of the day Were introduced by 1
. prayer, to #bich fuceeedcd the following exercises.
1 1, Sacred mulie, ' i
2. A salutatory oration ia Latin—by Archibald j
Bafiett. /
3. A difpatatioo—by Bancroft Fowler, Salman <
King anfl Charles, Denifon—on this queftiow, Is a 1
civilised ftatepf society produdliv# of more bappi* t
ness tban a savage state ? j
4. An oration—by G6ld Selleck Silliman—on ■<
the nature and progress of the Mahometan impof- 1
ture. |
5. A dialogue—by Charles Boftwick,David Ed- \
mond, Jobs Humphreys, and John Hart Lyrde, 1
on the comparative advartf ages of wedlock and ce
libacy. 1
6. An oration—by Henry Davis—on the evil 1
eonfequences of the stage. 1
7. Sacred music. I
ATTEINOON KXKXCISti.
1. Sacred music. 1
z. A poetical oration—by Benjamin Silliman— 1
on the comparative eSfedh of the different dates of ;
society and climate upon the various nations of the
world, f s \
3. A humourous oration—by John Hooker— t
on leading-firings.
4. An oration—by Mr. Jeremiah Atwater, tu
toi*—on the connexion of the moral and political
principles and institutions of this country with its '
national happiness.
5. Degrees confeired.
6. Sacred music. ' ~ t
7. The exercises concluded by prayer. c
The degree of Bachelor of Art* wasconferred on
Thomas Wells Allis, John Bacon,' Archibald Baf- 1
sett, Jonathan Belden, Hezekiah Belden, Timo
thy Biihop, Charles Bofiwick, Jatnes Cantey, Eli-
hu Chauncey, Henry Davis, Charles Denifon,
David Edmond, Thaddeus Fairbanks, Bancroft
fowler, John Hooker, Ruggles Hubbard, John c
Humphreys, Williin Henry Jones, Salmon King,
John Hart Lynde, Thomas Miner, Joseph Parker, E
William P. i uce, Levi Robbina, Isaac Seely, Gold I
Sellcck S.illiman, Benjamin Silliman, Elifha Stearns, '
Afabrf MocJfccr Strong, Fanning Tracey, John
Harvty Tucker, Samuel Porter Williams.
The degree of Matter of Arts- ob Jeremiah
Atwater, Burrage Beach, David S. Beardman, e
Amafa Porter, Joseph Ruffel, Ichabod Lord
Skinner, Joseph Watohurn, William Botsford, f<
Samuel Lathrop, John M.Crackan, Joshua Stan
ton, Jeremiah Mason, JoW Stoddard, Frederick
Wolcot, Srth Samuil Smith, Job Wkite of Har- c ]
vard College. 1
The honorary degree of Matter of AlUon the
reverend Samuel Blatchford, and 6n the honorable b(
Jeremiah Wadfworrh, cfcuire.
1 lie decree of Dodlor of Divinity was confer- -m
red on the reverend Benjamin Trumbull. t j
i he degiee of Doitor of Laws was conferred
on the honorable Andrew Adams, esquire, chief L
juflice of :he (fate. a.
Reverend Charles Backus, of Scmers, is ap
pointed Profeffor of Divinity.
„ MefFrs. Dan Hnntftigton and Zachariah Lewis r
are appointed Tutors. lc
I'rom an extenflve: tfftsmony given by the '
learned and polite audience, it is fairly presumed, hi
that at 110 time haw „ ilu lar exercises Lxen received <1
with a more decided i.pprobation. at
HAOU'i, June 7. '
0i the P rovill « of Utrecht
Z Zu ' ' tor tl,e fut " re "» ecclefiaOical r
,}lan "Other j 1
ctb divinity, prcacheis
th£ dlUrch P-d
fro™ the public lu ,'unc, (hall cease at the expi
ratiou vf four months ; tlwit all benefits out of th
which such payments are made shall be declared the
DosseS f A 38 the firft "
poffe.ors had very different views from 'thole of 1
the present; that all churches, meeting houses, a
SS'' are not supported by prime funds
rhaj beconhdered as the property of the province
r j C h ? i,cwcr "'•» left open to the
reformed congregations.
LONDON, lulv 7
< All the letters from Italy aie fuli-of hitter com
p a."ts again.t the conduct of Btionaparge. They
charge him with a wanton insolence in tone and T
ZTic'tv W t'l T ' lnfl - i?b!c avidit y> a " d "tmoft
bv ,hr I V ,S U,dee<i Efficiently proved
by the ttriking contrast b«tween hi, fraternal pro
elamations and vexatious proceedings. The peo rc
pie, exafpemed by the pilh gc ot '\ he ch „ r £" 0
he exorbitsnt contributions impofcd on them, and
the impnfonment of th e priests, nobles; and, in
f-t; o( aII llle roo(t distinguished persons in the ~
ou ry, on pretence of keeping them as hofta.es,
ceverj w.tere preparing vwlen. measures. What
has already come to p .,f s at Mil(tll> Pavillj Novla
&C. is only a prelude of what may happen in ft,. 1
so mr h /i , B S Io - i ' r£,lc h print,, which j
lomahcomplaceney celebrated the mod f ,a,i M of A
recant" 3n " *** E robabi y troughs to
i ' J
- '1
(it The Chancellor of the Exchequer has Happily
i;;- prevailed on the bank to advance jT. 200,000, in
jatt order to pay offonc quhiter'o arrear of the Civil
,i 6 Lift. Mt. Pitt was obliged ro make three jour.
meg to the bank before he ptiiuaded them tomaVe
to- this advance. The loan Ts given, we fuppofc, 0R
to the fecurrty of the growing produce of the Confo.
lidated Fund. This may be truly sailed a drop in
), the ocean of national, nectfiitiea ; but so iar as it c
iier go eg, it is not very repuiabk in the diw'ftarn of -
rue the bank to do ; since it-is an advance of moiicy
ful 1 without the authority of Parliament ; and may ■
ian pave the way for further deviation* of the fame
iz- kind. A Mimfter has oulv to prevail upon «
>rd men to atfift him with funds, to make ail v ;iv t
Ige cheques of our Conftituuton, walte paper.
• - Philadelphia,
m-
ne TUESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER i 7, , 79 (5.
jal
g- / Hie Prefident'e farewell adihefs to ins country-.
men is another gracious testimony of his difintertft.
oj ed lave of country.
:s. The sentiments it contains and the principles it
inculcates, mult come home to the feelings oi every
Id genuine and patriotic American. Such advice i
from such a citizen, under the present circumttsn
sn ces, must make the mofl. durable imprefSon j-it will
a form the Americans true politicalcrecd; it \vi.4 be
>i- the Book of Oracles to his fucceflors. While they
puifue the line there traced, America will be uappy
in and prosperous ;if they deviate from it, every dc
>f- viation will be marked with political calamity. .Ex
perience hat teftcd, under the admiuiftration of the
d- Federal Government, the wisdom and policy of
ie, tliofe principles which are leconsmended by the
:e- President, and which formed the baiis of his admi
nistration j America under it has flourifhed, has
vil bcerrat peace and has been truly happy. May hu
successor be infpived with limilar sentiments and in
herit his political virtues !
However we must regret and deeply regret the
ret tie men t of this truly great man, we canuotbut
— rejoice that the moment (or retirement is (iiigularly
of auspicious, and that he letires with unfaded glories,
be If calamities ihould again futround us, Americans^
will know where to seek the Saviour of kit Cotiu
- tr 7- ,
"j Public Notice is Hereby Given,
ts r l"° thc . Freemen cf the City and County of Phila-
X delphia, and thc County of Delaware, that a gene
ral elediion will beheld on Tuesday the eleventhdaf>
of OiSober ne«t.~The election to be opened between
the hours of ten o'clock in thc forenoon, and one
o'clock in the afternoon.
>n When the freemen of thc City of Philadelphia, are
f. to meet at the State-hot#.- in the fa'd city, to eleil
0 _ Six Representatives fur faidcity in Gcielai Aifcm
i. b 'y*
One Representative for said city in th: House of Ke
' prel'entatives of the United States.
" Twenty persons for members of the Common .Cour
m cil. ,
j, Twelve persons for members of the Scleft Com
r> mittee.
Id The Freemen of the City and Countyof Philadelphia
to ele<2
One perfpn for Governor
Two persons for Coroner*
One person for County Commijlioner
h The Freemen of the County or Philadelphia, t»
1, eleit
J Six Representatives for said County in General Af
j fembly.
' One Reprefeptative for said county in the House of
j" Representatives of the United States.
* The Freemen- of the City and County of' Philade
lphia, and Coun;y at Delaware, to e'.eik
One Senator for the State
g The Freemen of thc townlhip of the Northern Li
e btrties arc to iiold their eledtien at the town-house in
Second Stree! continued, ak»ve Coats's Street.
The Freemen of the townships of Gcrmantown,
" Itoxborough and Driftol, are to hold their election at
the Union School House in Germantown.
d The Freemen of the townships of Oxford, Byberry,
•f Lower Dublin and Moreland, are to hold their eleillion
at the house of the late John tSarnfley in Bufsletown, in
thetewnfhip of Lower Dublin.
And the Freemen of thc Diftricft ofSouthwark, and
the townships of Moypmenfing, Paffyunk, and Ki"g
---' feffing, are to hold their eledtion at the Siate-Houfe in
the City of Philadelphia. ' ,
e The Conftahles of each Ward, Diftritf, &c. are to
, hold theireledlion, in tho diffrrent diflriiSs to choose
j their infpeiftors for the enfiiing year, and to give their
attendance at the time and/efperflive places.
Sept. a 6. JOHN BAKER, Sheriff.
mi iliii i iiii wawißipyvwiwai." i
t For Sale,
1 By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
* An Invoice of Cordage,
i Confiding of different £z.s, from i 2 icch cables down
to rope of 2 inches, of different lengths: Imported in
" the fliip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
f Sept- 27- d£f
C • • . .
f Twenty Casks excellent Claret and
> A few pipes choice Bordeaux Brandy,
, i For sale by
, Ji {eph Anthony & Co.
? September 2". d 6
This Day is Publifjied,
By WILLIAMCOB BETT,
OppoGte Christ Church,'
! THE POLITICAL CENSOR
t ' FOR SEPTEMBER.
j CONTAINING,
The "LIFE "of THOMAS PAINE, iaterfperfed with
remarks and reflexions; and
Obftrvalions on the Pamphlets lately pub
! lijhed againd P. Porcupine.
1 September 16. *3
: THIS DAY PUBLISHED,
' By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chclnut-ftrret^
(Price 12 t-2 Cents)
; | The President's Address
j j To the People of the United Statft,
f * Announcing his intwuiou o: retiring frwn rub.'ic life
j thu ex Jiratioa oi" the pretcnt conil;tuticr.jl term of
j prefideju'y.
j &c?U;nigr zo 4■ : V '• -
I * • ' ' "»-
'
so the Electors of the City of Philadelphia. the if
GrstieWN, _ lu
Having attended at a meeting at Mr. Hoffman's tllC c
fcfiool, Cherry-street, as well as at *M.r. Little's avc .
/chool-hotife on Friday evening last, for the purpose ID K 1
of nominating suitable cdara&ers to he submitted nowf
to our fellow citizens for their fuffrage at the en
"filing eledi»n ; it appears but reasonable and pro- "'P
pcr,°that the bufmefs, so far as it hath been acted ou
'upon, should be laid before the citizens, generally, ~ de* i
for their information, that they may thereby .have h
time and a-i opportunity of conlidering the charac- '
4cr» of the several proposed candidates, and there- I'y 1
from feleft those men who are mod efleemed for an '
their wisdom, jvittue, and political knowledge in £ ent
government affaiis ; as well as the propriety of fe- man '
kiting Counsellors and Common Council men, for eer
making ordinances and bye laws to regulate the po
lice of this city. _
At this lall meeting (at Mr, Little's school) a
printed ticket, or lift of names, was offered to the r:!
gentlemen present, from which it was prepofed (at
a subsequent meeting to be called for the purpose) 3f(
to fclett a ticket to be supported by all the gentle-
men then present, at the ensuing ele&ion, for the
following offices, viz.
Governor.
A Member of Congress.
A Senator. teer
Six Members of Assembly, j jot|
Twelve feleft Counsellors.
Twenty Common Councilmen.
The propriety of the chara&ers contained in this
lift, to fill some of the important stations intended |^ r
for ihem, are so felf evident that they need no com-
raent : it is only withed that a choice had been sub- npr
mitted.to the meeting, as well in that of Governor
and Member of Congress, as in the several ttations and
v of less importance ; for though we have heard of , )nd
no opposition to the Governor ele&, zi Governor, d ,
v>e have heard of other candidates for Congress ; '
and could wish that JONAIHAN B. SMIIH j n
fee taken up for that important flation, Mr. Smith
js a native of this (late—received his education j
(which was liberal) amongst us—was bred a mer-
chant ill the countisg-houfe of his father in this
city—served as an officer in the militia, with; great of
reputation, daring the trying seasons of our glori- con
ous revolmiori of '76, '77, and '78—Cannot be £
supposed under the influence of foreign nations, ei-
ther from family connections, kingly patronage of q{
his friends or family—or from receiving his educa
tion in Europe. These considerations ihould have
their due weight with all independent American
electors. . _ j
Subjoined you have a copy of the printed lift cir- r j >;
•ulated at Mr. Little's school room, nothing t j w
doubting but that from so refpe<stable a collection .
of the names of our fellow-citiatens, a fafe ticket u £ e
may be formed, with Mr. Jonathan B. Smith as Kt
yo'ur Reprefentafive in Congress. ma
This recommendation isfubmitted to mature con- tj(j
of the electors generally, as well as the ,
£enilemen who compof«d the above recited meet
ings, by an ELECI OR.
GOVERNOR. frc
Thomas Mifßin, Br
CONGRESS. val
John Swanwick.
SENATOR, 1. Tv«
Benjamin Biannon Thomas rorreft jiii
Bmiarain Peaifom George Logan.
ASSEMBLY, 6.
Frederick KuM ' Charles pettit gr
Jof. B. M'Kcan Stephen Girard an
Matthew Lollar Ifracl Israel ha
Andrew Guyet Van Phull . p C
Samuel Wetherel, fefl. William Colliday pi
William Barton William Richards w
Fergufon M'H v 'i ne I°^ n Barker
Benjamin Say • Joseph Wetherill ]t
Tacob L. Swyler Jacob Hiltzheimer. w
SELECT COUNCIL, 12. „
Benjamin Rulh John Pnrdon tl
John Connelly Jacob L. Swyler f t
James Sharfwood John Barker tl
John Dunlap Robert Patterfcm „ ai
Fergufon M'llvaine Abraham Shoemaker ft
Robtrt Evans Andrew Pettit el
David Jackson John Barclay t]
William Adcoek Robert Bethel!
George SchlofTer Henry Kammerer f,
Francis Bailey Matthew Carey g,
COMMON COUNCIL, 20. ri
lfoac Pennington Dodtor C- Wiftar f,
Gokfrey Gehler Stephen Girard I
Robert Smith, merchant Benjamin Hurbefos
Thomas Leiper ' Jofiah W. Gibbs
Jona. W.Condie Samuel M'Lean
Andrew Kennedy, soap- Guy Bryan , v
boiler John Miller t
Anthony Cuthbert Berijattlm F. Bache 1 ;
Joseph Wetheiill Eli(ha Gordon A
Matthey Carey James Ker v
Prefly Blackilton Michael Bright t
Michael Kitti Joieph arner t
Sanle* William Serjeant <
Sampson Levy William Stcvenfon (
Joseph Howell Adam Fotilke
William Richards Samuel Carver
William Ruth William Wafkin
John Porter Jacob Edenborn
John Lftchworth Sallows Shewell
Robert Bethell Andrew Phiier
James Gallagher A.D.Adv. I
„ Mr . 1
BY THIS DAY's MAIL.
—
■NORFOLK, Sept. 19.
Died, tt:is rr.orflirp, at the hf use of. Britannic
Consul, in this boroagh, Capt. CHARLES
' PLOWDEN SLANEY, of'his'MajeftVe regt
of Light Dragoons, and brother to Win. Slaney, Esq.
of Park Place, Shropshire, England.
BALTIMORE, September 24.
The following ex'ratt of a letter from a house in
Nassau, New-Pioviiilence, dated Augufl .22, to
another in {this town, has been put in 1 o our
hands with a reqnefl that it fnotild be published.
, ' " (Jt-n : itxts,
" WE lately received a letter from Urgin, in
fy <• V'tc:! 1 '
■ -i
the island of Cuba, refpefting the feizfire of * vef- eoeoi
fel supposed t» be an American, and tfce murder of ftitue
s the crew—vcopy of which, as we received it, ycu notw
5 have enclofsd. We have also received the follow- happ
. ing iiiformation from a captain of a Jjpanifli vefTel but,
j now in this port, belonging to Urgiii : Tjsat some to en
time in lalt, a schooner of the; following de
„ fcription touched there in dilfrefs: A new vefTel,
j about 40 tons, white bottod, black bends, yellow W
fides, carried a (landing fore topsail; after procur- prehi
c ing her necessary supplies, (he failed fronjthenqe ei- rnurd
tlier for the Cape or Aux-Cayes, with a cargo of thel;
dry oil and flour, iwo barrels of dollars, wher
r and another of half joes. Hiere were seven Frcnoh they
n gentleman paflengtrs, a mulatto woman, an Indian is fai
man, and two ftejroes. A French schooner priva- rooa
teer was then lying in that port, aad followed her what
t out, and it was reported the crtwof the piivateer each
deltroyed all hands on board, took out thp specie vore
a and valuable goods, ihen funk the vessel, and witl» Fair
e their booty baclr to Urgin, where they
[t disposed of it, and from thence -went to the Ha
\ vahna.
" P. S. The captain' of the S|>anifh vefTel fays,
that he underftoodthe schooner belonged t« Bahi- ' )urr
' more." lor
The subjoined it the letter alluded to. 'i nei
Sir, - m " r
1 WISH to let you know, that a French priva- c ° ra
teer has brought into this port (Urgin) a coppcr P* 1 " 8 1
bottomed schooner, bound to Jamaica, with a car-1
go valued at twenty-five thousand dollars, besides I
one bawl of dollars and another of half joes—the I c fP'
people were murdered oil board, and theeargo fold I
for nine thoufaad dollars and divided ztaong the| colr
smugglers. There were tiunkson board the fchoo- r2m
ner with the following advertisement pasted in I 1
31 them: " William CtauH makes and fells trunks wet
'p and portmanteaux of all kinds, after the English I
0 and French modes, No. 71, Chefnut flreet, Phila- I
r ' delphia." The cards on the trunks may lead t# I
theowcierof the cargi., the whole of which is now I
r , in Urgin, and might be recovered, if immediately lan '
1 demanded. I t^le
Urgin, August 6. " 1
r " The letters from wjiicfi the stove public infor- 1 ren
" s motion is taken, are in the hands of the printers j ta^
V of the Federal Gazette, and msy be seen by thofc I
n- j
concerned. •
CO*. Other Editors of papers by re-publidiirig j 1
'j. the above, may render an efi'ential ferviee to some j ter
of their readers. N I ] on
a " Married, last evening, Mr. S. Mode to Miss IL c
Ann Hotvarrl, daughter of S. H. Howard, Esq. j ten
a " of Annapolis. jXI
It is with fap&faftjon w« are informed of the ar- J ,- 0 |
,r " rival of the books for the library company of Bal-1
tiwore, ai d that the quantity is by no mrans small I ea |
on —-also that they will soon be in readiness for the j v it
' Lt use of lubfbribers It is sincerely wished our citi- j f] a
a< zens will apply for Shares, and " endeavor to pro- I (t r
mote as an obje£t of primary importance, inliitu- I
tioas for the general diffufion of knowledge." | ft,
et_ NEW-YORK, September 24. jqi
By captain J®hnfon, in thefhip Nancy, 42 days j yj
from Lisbon, we have advice of the arrival of tlie j w
Brazil fleet there, S.ith property to an isrimeuf j ' at
value. J w
We have be«n favoured, with tlie following e:;- I
tva£t of a letter, frtm an American in Lisbon, tc 1 , a
his brother in this city, dated I t (
" Lisbon, August u, 1796. w
" Ever, fmce 1 have been here,, there has beeu the -j
grcf.teft -appearance of a rupture between Spain I [ a
and England. It hes at length taken place : Spain |y,
has (hut its ports against Englandj and it was Ve-J w
ported yesterday, and currently believed, that a t [
part of the Spanish fleet had failed in conjunction q
with the French-—their destination unknown.
" The French have keen uniformly fuccefsful in j 0
Italy ; and the present appearance is, that the Pope t ;
will be dethroned, or will be forced t<) make peace ! {]
with the French upon »heir own terms. Indeed, a
they have already levied heavy contributions upon I
several of his provinces, and made a demand upon j t .
them of 20,000,000 florins. On the Rhine, they
, are equally fucCefsful. If this campaign ends as a
fuccefsfully as it has begun, the French will have no t
enemy in Europe that will belble to contend with {
them. | {
" The Portuguese are in expeAation of a viGt t
from them through the territories of Spain. In |,
consequence, the greatest exertions arf making to
raise an army of 50,000 men, to march to their
frontiers, by the firit of Odtober."
Extradt of a letter from a mercantile house in Lif-]
bon, to his friend in this city, dated the Ilthl
of August.
"The political situAtion of Portugal becomes I
■veiy critical, finee it is no longer to be doubted,
that WAR will immediately take place been Eng
land and Spa n. A Spanifti fqiudron failed on the 1
4th inilant from Cadiz, in company with the French
■vessels of war which have been so long there, ugder
the command of admiral Richery. It is said also, i
that the French have demanded a passage through j
Spain, for 50,000 troops, nominally destined against j
Gibraltar."
MR. M ( L c an,
Be plea/ed to insert the following in four Gazette, |
aud tblige a PLEBEIAN. j
A Searcher after Truth, in this age of Phari- j
faical delusion, enjoys with great delight, even the I
'v. breathings of philanthropy ; btjt viewing as be docs
. the very marrow thereof in the resignation and ad
dress of our beloved President, he is anxious that
it may be retained: and to this end he thinks it I
worthy the pttionage, yea, to be the patron of the
the human race .: and that they may ever have it
annic ; n their eye, it would be weH (next to the Bible)
ILES a copy thereof was framed and placed over the man-
tlf-piece of every family, as not only a true but
' **' ufeful picture, and by way of the
Declaration of Independence, and the Constitution
of the Uniied States, ought to be its supporters.
ife in May abler champions come forward with their eu
2to iog' es - The motive of the {iirferit writei is two
1 our fold; firft, to bear grateful tedimony to the inftru
iflied ment, in God's hand, that hath uircited the pub
lic affairs of America to a happy issue in the mod
in, in trying timrs, such as she may never again have to
/
cacouater ; therefore the approbation of !.is con- Sloi
(liments must add ba!n to the residue of his life, Br;
notwithftandinij I have aot a doabt he is perfectly
happy ia the possession of an approving conteiencc : Brig ]
but, secondly, that bi» fucceflW may be stimulated Schr.
to emulation, in order to obtain a like reward. SWp
— Schr.
NORWICH, September 22.
Wc art informed that two persons have bees ap Schr,
prehended span suspicion of having committed the I
murder and robbery in New field,' at mentioned in ]
the lad packet. They live adjacent to the pjace
where it was committed, and were apprehended as Bhi
they were pursuing their route to New-York. It fto". '
is said that as soon as their pursuers had entered the S!o
room in which they were, and made known to thim St. V
what they were after, they immediately discharged Caj
eaeh their pistols, wounded one man, and eadea- a Frc
vored to effect their elcape; they are secured in tal tit
Fairfield jail, * ai " e
— had tl
WHITESTOWN, September 14. one o
A Correjpor.dent fays, off tw
( Much has been said of the barbarity, of the in. was £
, ; humanity, and of the want of confidence-in Indian Hujjl
or savage tribej. Let us look into it—a few days L«
since an Indian was taken for having committed j Tl
1 murder, and bro't before a civilized tribunal, ac- j only
. I companied by. mere than 20 chiefs of his nation j
r his examination was candid, and circumllances ap- j
I peared fufficientto order a commitment. No ob-1
3 1 jeflion was offered on the pait of the Indians, ex- I Ship
. j cept that the criminal (hould be neither bound nor I .
j 1 tied ; and they would be his fponfers. This was I 0 j
j I complied with, and the Indian remained all night, I § c h r .
I rambling the'ftreets, without any one to guard him. gj,ip ;
„I In the morning, however he was lit his pott, and Sej
3 j went to jail singing merrily.—Trust me, if yoi: can [ out 1
h I find an inftanee of the kind in the civilized world. I Se
_ 1 Another Cerrefpondent adds, I
w View them in the diftiibution'of their annuities, I
v they receive each one, from the suckling to the sage, f r ; ci
„ an equal (hare, and they go away contented with IS 1<
shell proportion. All above 14 his money j Y«
las he pleafes—Jthat of those bi-l-aw, goes 10 the pa- j ter lv
rents. No civrlizcd natfion pra&ices these indubi- I 3 l nf ' l
table tights. doil -
I QUEBEC, September 8, j
g j On Tuesday lad, about four o'clock in the as- I I
lc J ternoon, a dreadful 6re broke out, in, a stable be- 'd t
I longing to the Honorable Thomas Dunn, in Saint I fron
i Louis street, which fcemed for some time to threa- j com
J- I ten deftruflion to the greater part -«f the town, j pbei
I The wind blowing frt'ftv from ihe v.elt,, inftatuly ! f'tie
r - j communicated the flames to the house of tlie hon. j
I Chief justice Mor.k, and to that adjoining'on the j
'"[ east fide. While these were turning with gieat J j
i violence, and it was feared would communicate the j f Qr
J flames to the adjacent houses on both fides of the j •
j itreet ; the fire was observed to have caught in the j ] {IIU
u-1 convent "of the Recolet's, at thelo.»er end of the | | ; ca
I street, »t lead two hundred yards from where it be- J
I gan. In a few minutes the loos and foire of the 1
Church fell down, and the whole convent was in a j
'y 5 blaze. At that moment it fee.-n;d very doubtful J
' le whether the Castle, or even the lower town could I
'f c I t>e saved ; but the wind fiiifting a little to the north- I ,
| ward, carried the flames up Cavrier street, facing J
!S " 1 ihc Chi'eau garden, where the fire continued to J
tc I ia g?> bumiiig down all before it, until it reached j
I the turner of the back-ilreet, which leads tip to- 1
wards Mount Carmel, where at last it Hopped. I
'he The Jioyfe of H- W, Eyland Esq. oppose fide of j
a ' n | said street, escaped unhurt. Thirteen or fourteen j
a ' n [ houses in all, are entirely burned down—among I
j which aie, two belonging to Chief Jultice Monk, j
' a three to Berthclot Dartigny Esq. and two to Mrs. J
ion Cugnet. ' J ™
During the conflagration, the roofs of many J ji
' ■" j others houses aifo catched fine, winch were saved by I De
°P e ] timely affiftanee, particularly that of Thomal Ain- J B/
ace I flie Esq. facing the Parade, the ho <fe of AlTembly, j
and ftverai houfas in the loweytown. I
P on I It is impossible at present, to form an estimate of _
P on the damage faftained, on this distressing occasion, |
hey in houCes and other property ; nor have we been
38 able to learn, with certainty, how the fire origina- O
'■ no I ted { though it appears probable that it was cau-
Mth by fame boys at play, who in amusing them ~
I selves with gun-powder, had set fire to the hay ia
" :fit the liable, of which <here was unfortunately a very
large quantity. m
S [° I 111 mi
heir
OAZErrs of the vniteo statss marine list.
Lif-j : T
Ith PHILADELPHIA, September 37. 1
: v\
mesj Charleston, September 13.
ted, Yesterday atrived the schooner Sally, Andrews, s
Ing- Leogane, 23 days 5 brig.Thetis, Cameron, Kingf
-1 the ton, Jimaica, 26 days. —
rnch Yesterday John Edwards, Esq. was re-elected
sder Intendant of the City of Charleston for the enfu- A
slfo, J ing year. 1 ai
ugh 1 —-
r ; n ftj Baltimore, September 24.
Arrived at the Fort ytjierday.
1 Ship Aurora, eapt. Isaac Johnson, nine weeks
] from Bremen. The (hip Hampton of Baltimore
■.etie, I failed 3 weeks before the Aurora, for Hull. Left T
J. lat Bremen the ftvip Phcenix of Baltiraofe, Aug. Cl
fiavi-1 13, fp ike 2 English 74's ;aifo (hip Columbia from
the N<*w-York lipund to Amsterdam, out 20 days, lat. it
docs 46,46, long. 39. Aug. 16, spoke brig Jane, ti
1 ad- from Portland bound to Liverpool, out 14 days,
lhat lat. 19, !qng. 47- Aug. 20, fp«ke ftiip Fe- J
ks it deral George, Delhon, from St. Übes bound to
f the Boston.
ve it Schr. Hornet, Crillen,26 days from Kingston. f]
ible) LeL there, (hip Golden Age, Philadelphia j fchr. c
man- Fairplay, to fail for Norfolk, next day. Came thro* e
: but the Gulph with a (hip bound to Baltimore. '
the Brig Two Broth«rs, Lang, 14 days from St. j
ution Chriilopiiers.
iters. Left there fchr. Felicity of Baltimore, to fail 1
ir eu- next day. ,
two Brig Eliza Johnson, Crozier, from Chcrant— 44
nftru- days —Brandy.
pub- Sloop Friendship, Barnes, 11 days from St. Vin- '
moll cent—rum, sugar and cotton—Left there flwop
ive to , Hughes, New-York j
Sloop Eliy.a, Jackson, 1i o*ys from T.'.w-Y
Brig Mermaid, 11 days fron Cliarlcfiosirn
/frfivah et this Pert.
Brig johnttpii, Crozier, ioc i.irf
Schr. Hannah, Phillips, \ Ltn l ~.ic;
Sloop Elir.a, Jackson, New-York
Schr. Pcj/gy, Watri, ' ew-Prov...tf>C
cleared,
Schr, Two Brothers, Spencer, St. Thofr.-s's
Catharine, Lee, Weft Indie*
Elisabeth, BUcjcwiM, * do.
The (hip Sroallwood, of Alexandria, Capt. John*
Son, failed from BourSeaux for Ahofia, in July.
Sloop Friendlhip, James Barnes in 11 days
St. Vincents..
Capt. B, was brought to under St. Vincent's by \
a French privateer, who treated him very ill, feve
i tal times threatened to put him in irons. The
fame privatser who moused only 6 carriage guns,
had the day before engaged two Britidi privateers,"
one of 12, and the other of 6 gum, and beat them
off two different ti«ncs. The Frenchman* nan:e
• was Stevens and the schooner belonged to Vi&or
i Hughes.
3 Left a sloop from New-York, captain Hughes.
1 j The above privateer had been from Guadaloupe
• J only three days and had taken fix prizes.
. j New-York, September 24.
ARRIVED. Dr/s.
Ship William & Henry, Ciirnes, Londonderry j6
I Nancy, Jahnfon, Liffcon 4:
1 I Brig Jenny, Daubigney, Senigalel 55
s I Bellono. Crocker, Savannah t
■' I Schr. Hazard, Hubbard, Jamaica.
'• Ship Nancy, capt. Johnl'on, 41 days fr»m L'ftion,
d Sept. 12, Spoke the brig Suckey, capt. Thornton,
n I out xx diys from Profidence, l?t. 32, 49, long. 66.
] I Sept. 9, spoke the schooner Dolphin, from Ncw-
Yoik, out 11 days, lat- 30, 43. lon g- *5> all well.
Brig Bellona, capt. Crocker, 8 days'tro/n Savannah.
s ' I Spoke the brig Summerfv-t, of New-York, from A-
r > I frica tJ/o days lince, who had loft her mainraaft about
hi 1 j leagues from the Hook.
•y I Yesterday failed from this port, with a pleasant wef
i- I terly breeze, the (hips America imd kajih, for India—
I and*the Ihips Belvidier, and North-Carolina for Loa
-1 don.
1 WALPOLE, (New-H»mpfhire.)
September 20.
if. I Daftor Bollman, who so courageoufiy sttetnpt
e- ed the delivery of the unfortunate La Fayette,,
nt I from his prison, is now making the tour of this
a- | country, not as a casual observer, but nt a philolo
n, ! pher, examining minutely into its beactiea, cuiio
ly | iities, and natural advantages,
in. I ' ~
bc Mr, FENNt>,
, at | Pje»fc to publish the following fele&ed Tick/t^
I for the confidtiation of the Eleflors, at the enfu.
! ing Ele£tion ; they being gentlem n n of tried and
J' 4 j known aUachmest to the Indepcr.,'£ icy of Ame»
lc j rica. A CITIZEN.
3e-1
' IC I Governor,
1 a j Thomas Mifflin.
ful j Congrcfs,
j Jonathan B. Smith.
th- I . Atfimblf,
I Jacob Hiltzheimer,
Matthew Lawler,
1 Andrew Gnyer,
J Fergnfon M'liUvaine,
to- 1 Israel Ifracl,
ed. J Wto. Barton.
: oi j ■
ten 1
ing S J U C K S.
Irs! Uix per Cent. , 7 yj-*
I Thtee per Cent. ------ . 10/5 / int.
4J per Cent. --------- 14/ (
a "y 5 1 percent. ----- ... r^)
Iby I Deferred Six per Cent. • - - - 13/&
k.in- I BANK United Statej, .... ljitozoprct,
bly I s *nnfyl Varna, ... - 26 to 2?
I —>— North imeiica, - - - -4510 46
I Insurance Comp. North-America, 37 1-2 per cent. adv.
f°* Pennsylvania, par to 2 per cent. adv.
ion, —.
iccn COITRSE OF EXCHANGE. «
•ina- 0» London, at 30 days, per £.100 fterl. par.
cau . «" at 60 days, par to 16a j.»
at 90 days, 161 a 161 i-a
Amsterdam, 60 days, per guilder, 4a
' "> 90 day?, 40
rcry
For Sale,
iT - •' A Complete Font of BreviSr,
new, andyet unopened. The weight of this
—1 font is about 31a lb. It is from the Founder j- of
Wilson & Sons, Glasgow, and will be fold at cost & charges.
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
' Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the United
, c '' States, 119 Chefnot-ftrett.
"'B'' September a7> dtf
' — 1 v
:£ied Tsow Publi/hing by the Printer,
■ n ' u " At No. 3, Ltetitia Court, delivering to Subscribers,
and to be had at the different Book-Stores in this City,
Berriman & Co's
*■ CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
•eeks The HOLY BIBLE.
more Containing the Old and Naw
Left Testaments and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes and re
a„„ erenecs. An Index ; or an account qf the most remarkable
r pjffages in the old and new Testament, pointing to the places
* rum wherein they happened, and to the places of fcriptuie where*
1, lat. in they are recorded. —A Table of Time.—Tables ofTcrip*
fane, turemeafures, weightsandcoins: with an appendix,contain-
I ' ingthe method ot calculating its measures «f surfaces
' hitherto wanting in Tnatifa on lh[t fubjcEt. A Table ot (JJhtel
' F c " and Condition' of men.
id to CONDITIONS
1. Thefweof this edition will be a LARGE FOI.IO,
n printed on a beautiful new tyoe, and good paper, made par
> ticularlvfor it, It will be published in Numbers, notto ex
fchr. cee d 30, one of which will be delivered wiekly to fubferib
thro* ers, at a quarter of adollar. Those fubferibert who .prefer
)ie receiving the work complete, will be attended to by Signifying
' the fame ot\ any of the fubfcripiion papers in rhe Bookstores
II in this city.
s. There willbe an advance in the price, on fubferibing
:o fail a f [ < r 'he firft of Atiguft next.
3. In the courfeat the Work will be given an elegant
Frontispiece—From an Engiavingof the celebrated artist,
: —44 Gxicn'ion.
Ber« iman & Co. gratefully acknowledge the very libcr;.l
Y; n _ rncouragfment they have met with; and havereafon to believe
' „ that the execution of their edition will answer every expec- .•
flwop tation, and /peak iti own praise.
Ma> »6 jaweow,North -Carolina—H'tiyi or o ugh Di/lt'tS.
COURT OF EQUITY, April term, 1796. j
John IVillcQx's hc'trs at law,
VERIUS t
, Archibald Maclalne, James snd others*
$ TN this cause the death of Jamei Morris being suggested,
J. as also the deaths of Phoebe Morris and Martha Mifflin,
other defendants—leave is given to file a bill of revivor.—
But it is ordered, that the complainants firft give security for
the costs. On the complainant's giving {pcurity for the cefts,
and filing the bill of revivor, it is ordered, that publica
tion be made in Fenno's Philadelphia Gazette for the space
of one week, and all© that publication be made in Hodge's
North Carolina. Journal, for the (pace of two weeks# that
unless the defendants put in their answers on or before %hc c
third day of the ensuing terra, to wit, Oftobcr term, a. 0. <
1796, that then the said bill will be taken, pro confisso
aoainfl the defendants so failing, and a decree made accord*
ingly. ' ■
I certify, that the complainants have given feeurfty for ,
the costs agreeably to the above ; and I also certify the above
to be a true copy of the minutes.
, W. WALTERS, Cleik, c
Sept. 26. and master in said court*
Valuable Real Estate,
For fate at Auflion by Casper Thi til,)J Hamburg,
late the property of James and William Kinncar.
For sale by public au<stion, on the 9th day of November 1
next ensuing, at the sign of Gen. Waftiington, Wood's
tavern, borough of Reading, Berks county, the follew-
ing real eftat«,viz.
A TRACTof land containing 465 acres with
l ' jtx. allowance for roads, called the Purchase, "
fiuated in Brunfwick township, Berks county, patented,
18th of Jan. 1788. This tradt, of which about 25 acres
are cleared, is of goed foil, situated on the Tomagua, or "
Little Schuylkill, well watered aad timbered, on which is
ere&ed a good log dwelling house and liable.
No. 2. A traift of unimproved land, containing 284 a- t(
eres, with allowance, See. called Hopewell, patented 28th "
O(Sober, 179®, situated in Brunfwick t»wnfl»ip, Berks "
eoßHty, foil good. ,
No. 3. A trad of unimproved land, containing 376 a
cres with allowance, &c. called Hillfburg, patented 28th
O6ober 1790, situation, &c. as N0,2.
No. 4. A trail efunimproved land, containing 388 a- c
cres, with allowance, &c. patented 28th of OAober, 1786,
situation, &c. as No. 2 and i.
No. j. A tract of rand, containing 26 J acres, and 57
perches, With allowance, &c. situated in Brunfwick town
ihip, Berks county, on Toipagub, or little Schuylkill, 5
miles above the town »f Hamburg, on which is erected a
well finifhed two story squared log dwelling house, 22
feet by 35, within the efiftance ofioo perchesfrom a forge,
•with the advantage of a ferry and public, house ; these ad- T
vantages runder this tra<9: very valuable. X
Nt> "16. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed with a pest T
and rail, or board fence, containing in front, 60 feet, and cil
in depth 18a feet, fubje<ft to a ground rent of 7/6 per an
num. da
No. 17. A town lot in Hamburg, enclosed as no 16, to t0
which it adjoins, being of the fame dimensions, and fubjeA m
to the fame ground rent, on which is ere<Sed a log liable, an
16 by 18 feet
No. 18. A town lot in Hamburg, adjoining to No. 17, 0 f
a corner lot, fronting on Main and Schuylkill streets, di- Wi
mentions the fame as No. 16 and above defcrib'd, fub
je& to 10/0 per annum ground rent. On this lot is er- t },
efied a large 2 story dwelling house, 45 feet front on Main _
street, by .34 feet in depth on Schuylkill street, pleasantly
and advantageously situated for a flore. p,
N. B. The above described three town lots will be fold
separately or together, as may belt suit the purth. fers. Ac
Conditions of sale—One third of the purchase money j,o
to be paid to the subscribers, or either of them in Philadel- rc
phia, at or bef ore the expiration of one month from the at '
day of sale, when a deed of conveyance will be executed j
the residue payable in 2equalpaym«nts, at 6 and 12 months t j,
with intereft,the payment whereof to be fecurcd by mort- re
gage on the premises.
James Henderfon, "J Affigneesta ex
Frederick Montmollin, I the estate of ' al
Thomas Rogers, l" James &Wm. J} 1
Jbfeph D. Drinker, J Kinn«ar. £
September £6. m & th.
Philip Nicklin Sc Co.
HAVE FOR SALE, 1
Souchong °'
' Hyson Skin /
Young Hyson S FRESH TEAS 4l
Hyson and \ a(
Imperial
Yellow Nankeens p,
China Ware, aflorted in Boxes and Chests p ;
Quicksilver «
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in "
chests / «
London Market MADEIRA WINE "
London particular >in pipes, hogfljeads, & "
New-York Market j quarter calks "
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogfkeads "
Sugar Candy, by the Box "
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in sheets "
3 Calks of Cutlery aflorted
A few chests of Manchester Goods, aflorted thick- "
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black fewing-lilks
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Nails alTorted in calks _
July t8 mw&f n !
fc
Brokers Office, and 5
COMMISSION STORE. "
No. 6% South Third street, opposite the national new Bank ®
tC-AMUEL M FRAUNCES VAN REED,
O have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of 1
7RAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers,
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and
fell on commiflion every species of {lock, notes of hand,
bill* of exchange, hovifes and lands, <scc. or
Moniv procured on deposits, See. &c. all kinds c'
writings in the convcyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the w
mod correcft manner. Conllant attendance will be given. 01
They (olicit a feare of the public favor ; they are deter- a !
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utntoft fccrecy observed. la
S AMUEL M. FRAUNCES, "
JOHN VAN REED- '3
Philad. August 27, 1796. m&wtf
Mr. FRANCIS, "
(0/" the New Theatre)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his ?
scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends, "
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca- hi
ilemy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters hiinfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
therto renders any promises of conducing his future
schemes on the most liberal .indftriikft terms, of pro
priety, totally unneceflary.
N. 3. Private tuition as usual.
3 . raw
\
JOHN MILLER, Tun. & Co.
No. 8, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late vefTels from Europe, &C.
and have lor sale,
A general ailortment of GOODS, fuitableto the season
Amongst which are,
TJROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
' D Plain and twill'd COATfNGS,
Rose striped and p«int BLANKETS, ;
FLANNELS and B AISES,
HATS alToirted in cases,
IRISH LINENS,
INDIA GOODS, generally,
A Consigned Invoice of IRONMONGERY,
Comprising a capital assortment to open adore—inclu
ding Thirty Casks of NAILS. This invoice will be fold
entire on very advantageous terms,
0 September 20.
l ' r Lottery
'g T7OR raifinj fixthonfand fix hundred and sixty-seven
X dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz
t ; I Prize of 5000 dollarsis idollars 5000
X 1000 JOOO
1 500 JOO
5 aoo lOCO
lO 103 2000
,99 , J°
200 25 5 000
2060 10 40,000
5 Lift drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, jooo
4332 Prizes. 44>4J0
1 4018 Bbnks.
6350 Tickets at SfJven Dollars each, 44,4>0
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftablilh
ing Uifeful Manufa(slHre6, the fuperimendants of the Pat
erfoD Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoing Suherr.e to the public, and have dire<Sed them
to refund the money to th»fe persons. who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
The lottery has afiually commenced drawing, and will
contijiue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office of William Blackburn, No. 64 .
south Second street, who will give information where tick- |
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N- CUMMING, !
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, > Managers. '
JONATHAN RHEA, J
dtf eo .
_ ' j
Samuel Rrchardet, j
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen <
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY 1
TAVERN and MERCHANTS G OFFEE HOUSE in the ■
city of Philadelphia: I
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the 1
daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- '
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be regularly filed '
and none permitted to be taken away on any account. J
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, IceCreams, and a variety 1
of Frcnch Liquors; together with the usual refrelhments, (
will at all times be procured at the bar. 1
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with '
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most '
approved Malt Liquors froml.ondon and other breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest :
produ&ions of the Season. <
Large and ftnall Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be 1
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is 1
regularly kept for cooveniency, the Billof Fare to be had 1
at the bar. :
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and '
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other f
requisite. j
Samuel Richardet will behappy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at 1
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges '
himfelf that nothisg on his part (hall be wanting to pre- <
fervethat patronage with which he has been so distinguish- '
ingly itonored. I
Philadelphia, April 19. mw f
Treasury of the United States. ;
NOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or ,
may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
of the Funded Dibt, or Stcci, bearing a present interejt of fix
per centum per annum.
1 ft, That pursuant to an Aisl of Congress palled on the
28th day of April, I7,6,intitledan act in addition to an
a£l, intituled " An a<ft making further provision for the
support of public cr«dit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the said debt or ftodk utill kc reimbursed and
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be made on the last days of March, June and Septem
" ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand
" seven hundred and ninety-feveri, to the year one thou
" sand eight hundred & eighteen inclusive, at the rate of
" one and one half per centum upon the'original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of
" December for the present year, and from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
" onefhoufand eight hundred aud ftventeen inclusive, at
" the rate of three and one fyUf per centum upon the ori- J
" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be male on the last •
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, bf such sum, as will be then ade
" quate, according to the contract, for the final redemp
" tion of the said flock."
2d- All diftin&ion between payments on account of 1
Interest and Principal being thus abolished by the establish- '
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement above de- ;
. scribed, it has become necefTary to vary accordingly the J
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public !
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
is eftablifhedfor all powers of attorney which may bo
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice viz
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that
\I of
do mate, confitute and appoint
I my true and lawful At- '
torney,f or me, rrndin my name, to receive the dividends ivhich are, '
' orjtall be payable according to la-w, on the (here describing the' S
stock) fane'iir; in my name in the tools of (here defcribmg the 1
books of the Treasury or the Commiflioncr of Loans, (
where the stock is credited) from (here insert the com- 1
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of 1
attorney is to continue) -with power also an.m'torney cr attar- '
nies under him, far that purpofc to mate andfubjtitutc, and to do all '
laivful ails requisite for ejeaing the premises, hereby ratifying and '
confirming all'tlat my said Attorney or bisfubfitute,fball lawful- «
ly do, by 'virtue hereof* * b
In Witn-fs hereof, I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal the
day of in the xear
Sealed and delivered
in pT'fenceof,
EE IT KNO WN, that in the day of
eforc me personally came
within named and actnawledged the above letter of attorney to be
hit ati and deed. '
In tejlimony whereof I have hereunto set my Hand and affix- ,
* Seal the day and year last aforefaid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen- ,
tieth Jay of July 1796, pursuant to diredliens [
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH, (
Iregfureraf the United States) r
j'jfyiZ* - •us'j'ttlJ.
iTurks-Ifland Salt,
f 0 £ SA L E,
Per the (hiji American, Capt. Shailcrofs —W ill te rea
dy to difchargi:. at pine-street wharf on the 27th inft.—
Apply to v ,
7ehu Hailingpwortb & Co.
Sept. 23- n " vf
A Mdnufafltory FOR SALE.
A Valuable .SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new
on an entirely Original conftru&ion, and built of the best
materials, and riiay be set to work immediately. Persons
whowifhto purehafe, are reqiiefte to apply at No. 373,
South Second Sib set.
September 13. t t f tf
i. —, — 1
City of Waihington.
SCHEME ioftbe LOTTERY, No. 11,
, FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 t THE
FEDERAL CITY.
, A ) 20,000 dollars, & ?
, dweifing-houfe> ) ca A* 3°) Coo, are 5 S °' °°
, 1 ditto iV,OOO & cash 25,000 40,000
, I ditto Xs,ooo & 1 J, eo° 30,000
, 1 ditto 16,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
1 x ditto 5,000 & cadi '5,000 10,000
I ditto s\>ooo & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash pri&r of 10,000
2 do. j,*oo each, are • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
20 do. 500 - - XOjjOOG
00 do. 100 - - xo.ooo
200 do. s<l) - - 10,090
400 do. 25 • 10,000
I,ooo' do. 20> 5 20,000
15,000 do.' 10 - - 150,000
*5>739 Prizes.
Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. Tofavour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the LArrbut one :
Aqd approved notes, fecuAig payment ih either money
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received foi
any number not less than 30 dcKets.
This Lottery will afford an ekigant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ereSed in tlie City of Waihington—
Two beautiful designs are already feledted for the entire "
fronts on two of the public squares; from these ptawings
it ispropofed toereel two centre aud four corner buildings,
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and/to convey
them, when comple*, to the fortunate adventurirs, in
the manner described in the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray '
the necessary expenses of printirijT, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National <
University, to be ereded within the city of Vpalhington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are :
fold off.-—The money prizes will Repayable in thirty days 1
after it is finilhad ; and any priztfn for which fortunate (
numbers aie not produced within twelve months after the ,
drawing is closed, are to be considered as given towards 1
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle ;
the whole business in a year from the eading of the draw- 1
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes, ;
are held by the President and two I/ire&ors of the Bank 1
of Columbia, and are valued at ma re than half the a- 1
mount of the lottery. • i
The twenty four gentlemen who fey appointment of
the late Commissioners a fit lied in the management of the 1
Hotel Lottery are requelted to undertake! this arduous task <
a second time on behalf ef the pliblic ; a fufficient num .
ber of these having kindly acceptcd,it is hoped that the ;
frisnds to a National University and the other federal ob
jefls may continue to favor the design. ]
By accounts received from the different parts of the 1
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets 1
have been sent for sale, the public are assured that tha i
drawing will speedily commenue, and that the care and j
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe-difpofal of \
the tickets, has rendered the short fulpenfion indifpeniable. 1
SAMUEL BLODGET.
»§„ Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; o .
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boston
of John Hsplpns, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. eo
Watson's Answer to Gibbon.
JUST RECEIVED,
And for sale by J. ORMkOD, No. 4 r, Chefnut-ftreet,
Apology for Christianity, ■
In a feriet of Letters v addrejfd to 1
Edward Gibbon, f
Autkor of the History of the Decline and Fall of the <■
Roman Empire: a
By R. 11 AT SO N, d. d. f. r. s. Bishop of Landaff. c
(Price 75 ccnts bound ) ;
Watson's Anfwcr to Paine,
■ To be had at the fame place.
The enemies of Religion are awake ! Let not ber
friends sleep.
Sc P t - r - mw&ftf
N OTIC E. £
THE Snbfcribtr, having been reduced in his circum t
fiances, by fun dry misfortunes, ahd, being thereby 1
nuaMe to fatisfy his just debts, hereby give* notice to his
Creditors and to all ptrfons concerned, that he intends te *
apply to the General /. ffcmbly of Maryland at their next
fellion to be held on the firft Monday of November next,
for the benefit of En a<£l of insolvency.
WILLIAM EDMONDSON
Eaflon, T<V of the 9th month. 1796. lawtiftMN
To be fold, (
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty ef Gloucester, asd ltate of New-Jersey, contain™ n
ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a Suitable propor
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A J;
great part of the arable land is in a high (late of cultiva- 0
and very natural to the production of Red Clover. 0
■On said plantation there is a genteel two-Jlory brick hoHfe, 0
with fcur rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under a
the whole; together with a barn, c w -cribs and carriage- f,
house. l'he garden is large, and contains a good collec 'e'
tioo of the licit kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees; u
the orchardconfiftsof about three hundred grafted apple- 0
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premiles.may v
be informed ef the terms by applying to
ANDREW HUNTER.
J»'y *9 j , v
To be Sold,
At No. 128, North Second-Street, and by several of
the Apothecaries in this City.
r T" , RANSFERS of the right to remove pains and inflamma
-*■ Hons tromjhe human b»dy, asfecured to Dr. ELISHA
PERKINS, hy patent, with inftrumenls and direftiors ne- 5
celTaiy for the practice. Tbis mode of treatment is particu
larly ufeful in relieving pains in the head, face, teeth, breatt, I
ude, Itom.ich, bac'i, rheumatifmi, recent gouts, &c. &c.
Notwithstanding the utility of this praClice, it is not prr
iumed but there are cases in which this and tvery othn
remedy may sometimes fail.
J uac * ' taw
Waflungton Canal Lottery,
N°. I
" \T7"HEr£aS the State of Maryland has authored
VV the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thoufa-r.d,
twtfhundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, from th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -r Prize of 20,000 dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
Tlaftdrawn}
[1 Tickets, each J
( 6 ditto 1,000 6,000
I, 10 ditto 400 4,009
ao ditto 100 2,000
55 ditto 50 1,750
575° ditto ia 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, 26,250
■> 5856 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
$3" The Commiflionets have taken the Securit; ; rf
quired by the aforefaid a<sl for the punjlual payment of
the prizes. **
The drawing ef bin; lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon as tl«> Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as arc not demanded in fix months after ths
drawing is finiihed, fiiall be considered sos
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly
(Signed) NOLLE Y YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, afW
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wafhingtorj, Feb. 11. 5
Mordecai Lewis
HAS FOR S/IL~E,
NANKEENS, Jong and short.
China, well aflortcd.
Quicksilver.
Diapers
Baftas.
Coflas. #
Bandano Handkerchiefs.
Roll Brimstone.
Sf P t - 6 - tt&frm
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AMD FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
W(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
ITH a LOT ef GROUND thereunto belonging,
the weft fide of Phiro-ftreet, near Union-street
containing in front 32 feet, and in depth .00 feet, to an
alley leading into Union-street. Thchoufe is 32 feet front
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
large, commodious, and completely finilbcd; the ttfoTirft
ftor.es are each 13 feet high; there are 20 mahogany
doors in the house ; a geometrical staircase, with malioo-a
ny rails and a good iky-light. The kitchen is in the cell
ar, which is spacious and convenient, and finifhed with an
oven, stew-holes and pantries, a servants' hall and large
wine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, ia front of which is r n
area in which there is a pump. The,yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat three-story
brick hoxfe, on the north f:tie of. Union-street,- contain
-3° f eet front by 2o feet deep; the lower part of which
is at present occupied as a compting-houfe, and the upper
part divided into wall-finiflied large chambers. Thishoufe
may at a small expense be converted itito a convenient
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the front
and back have Venetian window-ihutters. Adjoining-the
last house, upon the lot belonging to the firft,' aft TfSCtad
bathing-rooms, &c. There arelikewifevtrygood coach--
house and stables finiftied equal (or nearly so) with any in
the city, 911 a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and
in depth 011 the wvft fide of said alley 52 feet. There are
good cellars undet the whole of the buildings, and a-wiue
room over part of theftable, with a hay-toft over the re
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD BONS.-iLL & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Dock-street. between Walnut <5c Pear
ti&f iVtectk
6th month 24th, 1796.
F 0 ~R TITT.
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT 12 miles from this City, situate in Abit.g
tan Township, Montgomery County ; containing
70 aeres, a new stone house, two stories high, 2 rooms on a
floor, fire places in each, a stone kitchen and stone fping
house. over an excellent spring of water, a barn," ftabfles,
sheds, barracks, See. A large apple orchard, and a variety of
othcrfruit, about iz acrcs of good meadow well watered®
and wood fufficient for fire, and fencing the place. Poffcfli
on may be had the jft of April nejtt. Property in this city
will be taken in exchangryor MORRIS and NICHOLSONS*
Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, September 13, i 796, ttftf^
W A N T £ Z}JB
For any term from one to four years,
A HOUSE, pleafently fituatedln any of tbe principal
streets within the pavement, and not very distant from
the State-House, capable of accommodating a small fami
ly ; the house mull have stables and coach-house, and
would be required to be ready by the firft week in No
vember next —Euquire of tbe printer.
Sept, 14. ttf"
F 0 R SA L E, 7
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED TIVITTE NHA M, situate in tke
townlhip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 1-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
new Western road; containing 23# acrcs of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of the firft quality. There are !
on the premises a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
of excellent water in front; a large frame ham, ftablc*
and other convenient buildings'; a smoke-house and itone'
j fp r ' n g-houfe ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
, cs. he fields are all in clover, except those immediately
nnder tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advaotaze
I o. water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
vement lor, grazing. '
The situation is pleasant and healthy, ar,4 f*„*n thehieh
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and tne
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable far a gentlemaif.
country leat. °
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harmaii,
deceased, and offered lor sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
OA. 9. tt&l Surviving Executor.
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO,
No. 1 xg-—
C H E s N U T-S TSBET.
.T.ioc £;ght Hollars per Anntm.J