#a?ette of the &ntteu States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser?
NumbsK 1334-] SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 17, 1796. [Volume X.
For Boston,
. the brig NEPTUNE,
James TOWN, M a^er »
xS. ' Lying at Wilcocks's wharf, will fail
with all con veo ieAt speed—For freighter passage apply to
the matter on hoard, or No. 76, North Front Street.
Dec. .3-
For Sale by Public Au&ion,
Sfl the Doffee-Houfe. on Saturday the \fth wjl. at 6
o'clock, in the evening,
The SNOW WILLIAM,
t- SAMUEL RINKER, Master.
• v3"-r Lying at Bethell and Coopers
J wharf —burthen one hiandred and
eighty ton*, or thereabouts, it fup
pnfed to carry 3000 barrels : She is a flrong good
vessel, and may be sent to sea at a small expence,
having been completely fitted last voyage. Inven
tory maybe seen, by applying to Captain Rtnker
on board, or at the counting hoofe of the fubfcri
bcrs. FOOTMAN & Co. Auctioneers.
TVreniVr I 2
___ —J" ■
For Sale,
The Ship ADELAIDE,
Of New Tor It •
1 J.ying at the fubleriher's wharf—bur-
J , 220 tons, (he is a stout well built
J , c- vessel, was built by the day for a House
in New' York, under the infpeftion of a crfon concerted
in her- ha been only one voyipp t« London and Charles
ton and fails fatter than any vessel out ol the port of New-
York.—Apply to
VV WILLIAM BELL.
Who has received byefu- fiid (hip from Charleften—
sy ri-rcet frefli Rice, ani a few calks of Ground Nuts.
Dec. 6. fr*l
- For Siigo and Killibegs,
The American Ship Nanct,
Cuthbert Kiggs, master.
Will fai) with all convenient speed. F«r
freight or passage apply to
William Bell j
Who "has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well assorted
3 Bales Irish Flannels, ami 2 boxes Linens
S5 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine ; Indigo . Huffu Matts.
Alfoi
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November 11, 1796, mwftf
FOR SALE,
1 HE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
£..■ Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, 3t Co.
If the MARY is not Fold in a few days, Ihe will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
' Ifljiher 11. d
For Charter,
r-p,-. The Ship JO HN BUL KEL T,
Ayr is Stockley, Master.
An excellent live-oak and cedar built
kSg*jtjji<4ihip, of about 3000 barrels burthen —Ap-
J e JF e Robert Wain.
Nov.
For Sale, or Charter,
j£3gl The Ship DIANA,
fSfeiira Samukl Piue, Master,'
Burthen 205 47*95 tons register, built in
3gSf3Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live oak
and red eidar,' and was sheathed 13 months ago, Ihe
has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be sent to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to
Philip Nicklin & Co.
IVho have f>r sale on board said vtjfel,
#7 casks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing dates. % ,
I box ink-Hands and note presses.
14 bales of fail fanvafs.
And. on hand\
Imperial ,
Hyson, and, > TEAS.
Souchong J f
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the firft quality.
*9 tubs Quicksilver.
t thefts Bandanno handkerchiefs. _
A few chufts Manchester goodswell assorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing ftlk.
180 cratcs Queens ware well assorted.
jo tons flieet lead.
Nails assorted, flat and (harp points. ' •
London Particular, Madeira Wine in pipes
London Market, > and hoefhiads.
New-York Market, y j
40 pip?s ar.d 10 hogftieads Teneriflfe wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
130 logs Mahogany.
Nov- r jth&ftf
For Sale,
By Jehu Hollingfworth, & Co.
15 hhds. Weft-India Hum, 3d and 4th proof,
5 Barrels best Indigo, and,
A few thousand bulheli of Turk's lfland fait.
oa Ij. 1 d.
Bank of North America.
THE STOCKHOLDERS aie hereby notified that an
ele&ion for twelve DireSocs lor the ensuing year will -be
helti at the Bank on Mouday the yth of January at ten
o'clock.
RICHARD WELLS, Calhier.
Dee. 6. §t»J.
Juit Arrived,
I» the ship Difpatch 4 Captain Morton, from Havre
de-Grace, and for Tale by
Isaac Snowden, jun. No. 141,
SOUTH SECOND STREET,
An invoice of Gloves of various kinds, Men's
White Silk HMe, Black and White Laces, and a few
pieces of Bl.ck Silk.
December 2. Jxr-
A Genteel House.
FOR SALE, a new, convenient, three-story HOUSE,
f'tuate in Fifth, near Sprmee-ftreet. Poffeftion may be
had ifl two months, when it will be finiihed in a neat
modern style. For terms apply at No. 109, Spruce
ftreet, or 109, So. Watec-ftreet.
December 8.
Elegant Bruflels & Turkey Carpeting,
For sale by George Dobfon, No. »j,South Thix4-ftreet.
December 15. j t f
Women's Cloaks.
GE Q. RJ2 E D O BSO N,
No. 25, South Third-street,
Has just reeeived, per%agle, Capt. Fofiick, via Lon
don, an assortment of
Scarlet
Drab t Cloaks trimmed with tur and
Pnrple and ( ermine.
Pearl J
December 15. 5
Bant of Pennfylyania, lstb Dec. 1796.
The Stockholders are requested to meet
At the Bank onTh»rfday, the twenty-ninth.instant, at
10 <rclock ih thf morning.
By or.itr ol the Board,
ROBERT RALSTON, Cathie*-,
$"9 f h Pr» tem .
oy the Subfcribers—ln PENN-STREET,
65 Pipes Excellent Madeira Wine,
Imported by the Eagle.
WILLI NGS & FRANCIS.
Nov.. 30 ; w&f
Imported, in the late arrith from Europe and the
H'ejt- Iriaieiy
Holland Gin, ir." pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Kum
Martinique Molasses, in hoglheads
Choice old Lisbon Wine, in pipas and quarter-casks
Lortlon Particular it London Market Madeira Wine,
pipes, half-pipes and quarter-casks
Malmfev Madeira Winr, in pipes and Giurter-cafks
Tenferiffe Wine, in pipes
Ruflia & Flemifti Sheeting and Raven* Duck, in cases
Window Glass, 8 by io, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in calks
Mill Saws and Crois-cut Saws, in bax«
Also, on hand,
A few chests of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; Affafo#-
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of CotTaes,
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete assortment of j-4 a»d 6-4
B Jul ting Cloths.
Fer Sale by
Praters & Co.
Oflober ao d2wm&th2m
WILLIAM SHEAFF,
No. 168, HIGH-STREET.
Has ro* Sali, WnoLtsAis and Retail,
MADEIRA WINE, of ift quality,
Old Sherry, Lilbon, and Port Wii^s,
" Cognac Brand/, - ■■_
Jamaica Spirits,
Wine bitters and
Claret in cases.
Also for sale,
A few barrels of excellent Beef.
December 7. da
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER & Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different lizes, from 12 inch cables down
to rope of a inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 27. dtf
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, NO. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Hot received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and striped Spanilh Swanfdown
/ Clouded Erminats and Molelkins
Striped do. and do.
Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Ernainets
Printed Florinetts
Do. Caffinets and Cadimeres
Superfine printed Qtjiltings, newest patterns
Also, per different "arrivals,
A large and general afl'ortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season.
November 5. dtf
Cheap French China.
THE fubferibers finding it impossible to supply their
store with any more China from Frande, the prices
being too immoderate in the manufactories, give no
tice that they will 1V at prime coil the remaining
flack on hand, confiiting of
Dessert Setts,
Tea-Table Setts
Separate Cups and Saucers
Groupos and Figures
Alabaster Vases
Looking Glasses, in gilt frames,
Besides India Japan'd Toilet Defies, Chairs, Tables
nad Quadrille Boxe?. PASQBIER & Co.
No. 91, South Second-street.
December sth. tts
Davis's Law Book Store,
No. 313, HIGH-STREET.
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his pro(effion»l friends,
and the Gentlemen of the Law, generally, through the
Union, that bis late imputation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and rrtdy for Saie, from a fingte volume to ao entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
prices, which foi several yeais pail have in lo dithnguilhed a
manner recommended thera to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the moil exiesfive collec
tion cf the latest Englilh and Irilh Editions ever imported
into this country, are pnblithed, and will be delivered gratis |
on application.
Orders addressed to G. D. in writing from any distance
fhallDe punctually attended to.
A number of T RUNKS for Sale,
ALSO, TO BE LET,
A convenient LOFT, near Maiket Street Wharf.
ov.B. tu&r»n» 1
LOST,
, On Wednesday afternoon, somewhere in Market -
J flreet,
; A Red Morocco POCKET-BOOK,
Containing, amongst other papers, a drift of M. M.
Hayes on Joseph Anthony St. Co. at twenty days, for
- 400 dollars. Whoever has found the fame, and will
deliver if at No. 5, Chefaut-ftreet, fhi!l receive FIVE
. DOLLARS reward.
December 16 a 1
, , i
On Wednesday, the 2sth inft.
At 4 0 clock irl the evening -Will be fold at Public-Fen- ■
due, (if not .before disposed of at private sale) at <
the CityTa-vern,
All that capital mansion-house, (tables, out-heufes, &c. 1
and three contiguoa* «f land situate on the Weft-fide (
of Schuylkill is the township of Blockley and county of
Philadelphia, grmraHy known by the name of Lanfdown,
containing 199 acres lei pefrches more or kfs and a messu
age plantation and trdft of laud In Blockley township a- 1
• forefaid adjoining Lanfdown, ctontaining 64 acres ones '
perch. >
> Tie premises are so well known as to need no particular '
description. Few feats in America can compare with 1
* Lanfdown for convenience and elegance; it commands a '
variety of rich beautiful profpe&s and is remarkably heal- ■
thy. Terms of sale will be made known by
PHILIP NICKLIN, } Attoraies m 1
; and C faS to
ROBERT £. GRIFFITH, } James Greenleaf. !
D"- "• §ta>
FOR SALE,
At Whitefides' Tea Ware-House, 1
No. 99, North Second Street. ■
Imperial ") THyfon Skin.
Hyfen, > Frelh Teas. < Souchong, . ,
' Voung Hyson, ) (. Bohea
Dec 9- 3tawjm. J
Just Landing,
sit South flreet viharf, from cn board tlii /hip Sidg- '
5 Ity, (iaptain Hodge, from St. Ptter/burg,
> The following Goods :
Russia Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
' Do. Huckaback. 1
Do. Craih.
Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 "and t,' to the lb. of the '
Engliih fizc. v "
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White Soap in small boxes. '
t Do. Cordage of fine yarn. 1
Ravens Duck.
IGnglifs, ill and and fort.
Horse Hair uncurltd-
Russia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
IO Tons Oakum and Junk.
S{. Petersburg Clean Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
O&oberu. 5
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STXEET x ,
Ha 3 received by the late arrivals,
Si Well Selected /I s sOk-tmknt of c
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdafliery Goods,
Which he will fell, wfcolefale and retail, on the very
loyeft term* ;
Amongfl which are
Some elegant 4-4 ai.u 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
n Ditto Dimity
n Tamboured, Book, and Ja:onet Muslins
Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, aOorted
lriih Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
MarfcilUs and Cotton Counterpanes
Role Blankets afTorted—&c. &c.
Oilobcr 26. d
RAISINS.
A few Calks and Bcxes of Excellent Frelh RAISINS,
just received, and for sale by
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Also a new 11 l-a inch CABLE, 130 fathoms long.
December $tf
Belt Bolton & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
f Excellent Halifax Salmwn in bblt.
47 hbls. prime Coffee,
Bell Boftuii Beef,
Codfiih in hds.
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 nt r
r Northern J U 1
s Mould and dipt, talluw caudles, of a superior
- quality.
> A few boxes excellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Liibon Wine.
A few sacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muslins.
FOR SALE BY
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
> CWlober 31. . d
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
The Stockholders are hereby notified, that the an
nual Election for Officers for the ensuing year, will
be held at the Company's office, near the Bank of the
United States, on the firft Monday in January next,
at lo o'clock, A. M.
By the Board of Managers.
WM. MOORM SMITH, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia, Dec. I, 1796. foeStlD
Washington JLottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefhut-
Ibreet, where a correct Numerical Book is kept for public
infpeition. Also Canal Lottery Tickets for sale or ex
changed for prizes di awn in the Washington Lottery, of
which the 46th and 47th days returns are received.
£5" The Bufincfc of a Broker curried oil as usual.
v A SHARE is the NEW THEATRE to be fold
on rtafonable terns. Dccsmtsr Ij. ttstX
Mks. Grattan
Refpe&fully informs the Ladies arid Gentlemen of the
City, that the lirft
LADIES' CONCERT
r Will he en Tutffday next, at t!ie Aflembl y-Room.
II Act I.
I Overture, - PiehL
Song, Mr»yP/attm, " Angels evar bright," Handel.
Concerto Piano-Forte, Mrs. Grattan, Krumpboltz.
. Italian Ballad, Harp, Mri. Grattan, Milico.
Mifeallaneous Quart«ttt.
Act 11.
* Harp Leflon, Mr». Grattan, Carden,
Song, «< Ah fe perdo," Mrs. Grattan, Saccbini.
Sonato Piano-Forte, Mr. Reinagle, PJrul.
i. Primrose, ballad, Mrs. Grattan, Webbt,
e Oyerture,
f *4.* To begin precifelv at 7 o'clock.
* r> rS ' ® rittan b-gs leave to inform the Ladies and
* ® tnt ' emen > that the fubfeription-book is at herhoufe
No 39, North Sixth street, for the reception of th6fe
names who wish to honor her with their commands.—■
t A fußfcription for eight nights 16 dollars, including a
II Lady's ticket, both' Hansferrable—
a Half fubferiptions 8 dollar*, including one ticket.—
Single ticket 2 dollars.
Mrs. Gratian takes the liberty of requesting the
fubferibers to fend for their tickets any day after
Thursday, the 15th of December, at No. 39, North
Sixth-street.
December 1
Imported from London & Liverpool,
EAR"I HEN WARE, in crates and hogfbeads, well
assorted
s Wine Bottles in hampers
Window Glass of all fires
Two cases ef stationary
One chest of yellow Jesuit* Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnctta
A small consignment of Rose Blankets, Flannels,
_ Baizes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plains, &e.
Paints of various colors.
Baiket fait is hogflieads.
Al/o on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hogOicads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different sizes
e A few trunks of ladies French ihoes aflorted
Silk nan keen, &c.
Likewise an aflbrtment of Dutch goods, consisting of
Ofnaberf s, tickienbergs, bed-ticks,' flripes, checks.
Morlaix linen, platilhs, ravens duck, Britannias, &c»
And for sale by the package only by
Thomas £3° John Ketland.
Walnut-street Wharf.
Nor. 15. eotf
Mr. FENNELL
Refpeßftdly Jubmits to the public patronage bis in
tention of delivering, during the enfuir.g winter,
A CoUKSt OF
Readings and Recitations,
Moral, Critical, and Entertaining;
ConGfting chiefly of detached pieces, fele&ed from
the naofi admired authors, in prose and vet£ei. —Ar-
ranged in such a manner as to exhibit; 1 striking display
of the human passions, and the gradual influence of
J vices on the mind tontrafted with that of their oppo
site virtues, in afftiling the happiness of man and the
welfare of nations. The readings will be occasionally
v interspersed with observations on the most celebrated
authors,
And the ART of SPEAKING.
v The whole intended as a eombined system of moral,
critical, historical, and oratorical inftruflion, calcula
ted to form the patriot and the man, 4L>d l»y a foun
dation for the science of moral and political govern
ment.
The course will consist of thirty readings.
Each reading will be delivered in the moruins and
evening of the fame day.
The day« of reading will be Tuesdays Sc Thursdays.
The morning readings will commence at 10 o'clock,
and the evening at 7.
None but fubferibers will be admitted to the morn
ing readings.
The evening readings will be public, to which also
fubferiptions will be received.
Subscription to the mornings 8 dollars.
Subfcriptioa to the evening readings 10 dollars.
5 » Occasional admilfion tickets to the evening readings
half a dollar.
Subscriptions are received by Mr. Zachariah Poul
g. son, jun. at the Library, to whom the Ladies and
Gentlemen who may be inclined to honor the underta.
— king with thrir patronage, ire refpe&fully requeued to
1 fend their names.
Dec. 12 d6t.
For Sale,
A capital (land for bufinels—l hat well known tavern,
the Ewe and Lambs, North Front Street, No. 333,111 the
Northern Liberties; a brick house containing nine fire
places, and ten rooms well fmilhed ; good (tables and
chair-house, with a trame-houfe on Water street ; the
building ft and 3 on four lots, leventeen feet front each, ma
,r king a front on front-ftreet, thirty four feet, and nearly
the fame on Water-street, and is one hundred and forty
feet deep from ilrect o street,. fubj-ift 10 £8. 10s. each
lot per annum, ground rent thisp portjr is near the hay
fcales, and public docks, easy cnrrununication with the
Delaware waters and advantageously situated for bufineis
of various kinds
The above premises are now rented until December
next at £.IJS P ir annum.—Enquire cf tae Printer.
Dec 12. - §1 w 2aw6\v.
For Sale,
By Georgtf Defchamps, No. 91,
NORTH SIXTH-STREET,
.1 Nova-Scotia Prime Salmon, in barrels
e and half barrels
'» Ditto Herring and Mackarel.
Smoaked Herring in barrels and kegs
Ditto Salmon, by the dozen or fmgle one
Dry Codlilh, from one to fifty kehtals
_ Fine and coarse Salt
Nova-Scptia and French Plaster of Paris, in the stone
and ground, for manure and stucco-work
r December I. Stf
t- 1
'« WANTED,
£ As Cook, in ?. private family,
A YOUNG WOMAN who cat, produce good re
commendations of an unexceptionable charatfter. Etv
id <}uirc of the Printer.
N«? ember 17. Jt£Neiv 7he at re.
7he Managers,
EVER solicitous to vary and improve the Entertain
ments of the New Theatre, and evince their gratitid*
for the patronage they rcceive, refpedfully inform the
Public, that they have, in addition to th«ir present Efla
blifhment, engaged a FRENCH COMPANY of COME
DIANS, who wlu make tbeir firfl appearance in this city,
THIS EVENING, Saturday, December 17.
The Entertalnmentf of the Evening: will commence
with a foaourite French Comic-Opera, in one ad,
called
Le Tableaux Parlant;
Or, The Speaking Figure.
The music by mons. Gretry.
CafTandre, M. St. Mare.
Leandre, M. VielUri.
Pierrot, M. Rouekoni.
Ifabelle, Mile Tejeire.<
Colombjne, Mile. Sophies
After the Opera will be presented, a COMEDYy in
tkree art*, called
Next Door Neighbours,
■By mrs. lijchbald, authoress of " Every cite has hi J I
Fault, 4tc. Taken from the Fr*nch Dramas,
« V Indigent" and " Le DiJJ':j>ateur."
Sir George Splendorville, Mr. Morelon.
Manly, Mr. IVarrell.
Blackman, Mr. Fram'u.
Lucre, Mr. Btijfett.
Lord Hazard, Mr. Darley, jun.
Wi'.ford, Mr. Warren.
Henry, Mr. Fox.
Biuntly, Mr. Harivood.
Shopman, Mr. Morgan.
Lady Caroline Seymour, Mrs. Francis.
Lady Squander, Mrs. Mechtler.
Evans, Mrs. JJeflor.
Elei-ior. (firfl time) Mils L' lift range.
To which will be added, a French Comic-Opera, in
one afl, called - "
Les Deux Chasseurs et la Laitiere.
Guillot, M Viellard.
Colas, M. St Mare.
Berrette, Mile. Tejfeire.
With the original mnfic and accompaniments.
Box, One Dollar twenty-five cents. Tit one Dollar.
And Gallery, hilf a dollar.
£3" Tickets to be had it H. & P. Rice's ftook-ftore,
No. se High-street, and at the Office adjoining the
Theatre.
The Doors of the Theatre will open at 5, and the
Curtain rife preciiely *t 6 o'clock.
Places for the Boxes to be taken at the Office in the
front of the theatre, from 10 till a o'clock, and from
lo till 4 on the days of performance.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to fend their
fcrvants to keep places a quarter before $ o'clock, and
to order them, as soon a*the company are seated, to
withdraw, as they cannot on any account be permit
ted to remain.
VirAT RESPUBLICA!
New-England Rum, Salmon, Beef,
Chocolate, Rice, Boflon mould and dipt Candles, a
/ew quarter-casks of Sherry Wine, a few barrels of
Cyder, and a few quintals of excellent Tlbk COD
FISH —for sale by
Ezektel Hall,
No. 42, North Water-firect.
December 14th, 1796.
THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Storte House, No. 41, South Suondjlreet,
Philadelphia,
HAS FOR SALE,
A Isfrge and very general afiortment of
STATIONARY
Drawing and Writing Befl and feoonH Swan Quills
Pahm. Black and red Ink Powder
Antiquarian Ditto Liquid Ink
Doable Elephant Penknives
Atlas, Delk knives
Elephant Superfine red and black Seal-
Imperial iug wax,
Super Royal Bcft vermilion and coloured'
Reyal wafers
Medium, Large and small office wa-
Demy iers
Thick Pod folio Red tape broad, middling &
Thin ditto narrow
Extra thin ditto Elastic gum, in bottles or
Thick Post Letter pieces
Ditto plain Pounce
Ditto gilt Ivory pounce boses
Ditto lined, Cocoa and bone ditto
Thin Post (very paper-knives
Ditto gilt Black sand
Mourning Sand boxes, japanned J
Ditto plain, or lined Lignumvitx and common 1
Bank 1 oft Ouster's fciles ,
Small Po? tap fixe Brass dividers 1
Bed Englilh and American Leaden preffars t
Foollcap, various qualities Black lead pencils f
Superfine Pot iliding ditto t
Second ditto 4 Japanned card racks
Blo'llom and grey Blotting Writing parchment
Ditto vellam 1
Wrapping paper Morocco writing dels I
Letter files and laces Spanish tambour ditto t
Paper cases, various files An elegant variety of ebony i
Bonnet pafttboards ink-ftandifiies J
middling and small '
Merchants Account Books, pewter ink ftandifiies c
vi *> , I.arge, middling and small '
Ledgers, single or double, countKig-houic ink-pots c
ruled for 1. s. d. or dolls. An elegit a.Tortment of r
Scents,oj Imperial or Su- chryflal anrl wedeewood ,
per Royal, with or with- philosophical ink-pot. !
out ercl vlines li*-glafie«, various lize* " b
Journals, Day Books, In- Leather ic paper ink-pieces '
voice Books, Account eur- for the pocket t
rent Books, Sales' Books, Small gilt vising car.'s
Letter Books, aad Pecordlßlank n.e%,. cardS| ] ar „ e J
Books, of Imperial, Su- and small, gilt and '
per-royal, Royal, Medi-Boxes of markinz-tYDes for v
m, Demy or Foolscap, linen. 1
cross ruled or plain. '
Receipt Books Bills of lading, large & small f!
Bank Books 15ills of exchange
Memorandum Books Elegant copperplate ditf« "
Bill of Lading Books Cultom-h^c? aI Z S
Bill Books, payable and re-Manifefts ti
ceivable Seamen's articles 21
Bank-Check Books, of vsri- Blank bonds
out fixes and for different judgment bonds
banks] * Judgment bills 0
Cyphering and Copy Book- Mortgages ir
Common place Book. Arbitration bonds ci
, , Apprentice's indenture ai
Bell Dutch quills, No. I, a, Powers of a' ;ornev f
3. 4 and s Bank &c . ' &t< &< _ '<
December 17. -
60 01
Ths PAINS OF MEMORY.
. From Mr. Merry's Poem.
j. As the proml veflel o'er the ocean glides,
Is And seems to scorn the winds and mock the tides,
le The jocund Mariners expand the fail,
a- To seize the vigour of the viewltfs gale:
5- From the high Ihronds their caroll d ditties raise,
y, To many a favorite maid, the notes of praise !
But now Aiore sullen blows the perilous blast,
Unsparing tempests work the struggling mall:
:e A moment lulls—and from the treacherous patife
I, Frelh horror gains, and fiercer fury draws !
1 n vain the pilot fliuns the o'er whelming wave,
Useless the caution—for no (kill can save !
The timbers crack, the ruddder quits its hold,
At random here and there the (b'p is roll'd.
Then comes the field of mem'ry tq dispense
Among the crew affliction's keener sense :
Dwells on each tender tie they left behind,
Grapples the foul, and preys upon the nun J!
Shews the lorn wife dLftraiiled at their fate,
The weeping Orphan'j unprote&cd (late ;
Tells of the plighted Virgin's ceafe'efs moan,
n The faithful Friend's dismay, the Parent's groan,
—And as to endless darkncl's down they go,
Clings tothelaft, and leaves the hted woe !
Ij From the Connecticut Couhant.
s, "*7.
Hint to Religious Men.
LEAVE sff that prayer for French fuctttfs.
That a wile governor continues it in his proclama
tions, exciife for y6u. He has ends to an- '
fwer which you have not ; and besides can take lacl \
or erase upon after calculation. To pray for French !
success is praying for the misery of Europe; and '
the corruption, moral anil political, of your ovrn 1
country. These evils proceed exa£l!y in the ratio '
of that success ; and are as naturally the effcdls of '
it, as ravings are of the bite of a mad dog;.
Give up also your deluflon about the Millenium. '
It did not commence with the " regeneration" of J
n France. Nor can it be made of an " age of rea- 1
son."—This certainly is a peribd in which Satan t
was to be loojed, not bound.—When Paine pro- '
claimed his " rights of man," the kingdom nf Sa J
tan was at hand But when we»ks were tnrned in
to decades ; deep eternal inferibed on the tombs ; 1
and a naked girl, for adoration, was placed on the '
altar ; then it was come. And the son« of Belial 1
r - far *nd near, thpugh you did not underfiand rhem,
c scouted for joy !—From that time France has been
ie drunk -with whoredoms, and the blood tf the /lain. We 1
too have been made to drink of h|i- blnfjbemies ; ]
ie and mult for a season, drink of ber plague: The 1
Jews, you fee, are not callcd to Chriltianity 1 but
,c Deijls 1 o Athe'-.fvi. Ours are nearly: all in.—lDrean '
71 not then of being in the Millenium, or its dawn. '
j r For your confalation however, Satan st« be 1
j bound again. But not by a king with fr.e heads. '
:o Nothing so ill fhapen for good was seen at Patmos. !
t- As to the time, it will be known when the event '
takes place ; whick is as ioon as any prophecy can |
be mtafured. Z. '
r — i
■> FOR THE 3AIITTE OF TH£ UNITSD STATES.
> *
Mr. Fenno, t
I HAVE had it ii contemplation since I saw '
Mis. Meiry in tha character of Juliet, to my r
sentiments ef her theatiical talents, but a diffidence '
t- naturally ari/ing in those, who have ntrvtrt giwn (
their thoughts on any fubjeft to the public, has
prevented the execution of my design until now. t
The dramatic fame of Mis. Mfrry was not eonfined J
' to Europe, but had reached the (hotes of Am?ri- f
ca, long before her arrival in this citj. When her '
r appearance was firft announced here, in a character >
that required no iefs nicety nf judgment, fully to *
comprehend, than abilities fuccefsfully to execute : z
I, it was justly to be expe&ed, that thefrieno* of the a
drama would be witnesses to her merit, and-yield c
their approbation to the palm of excellence, flie 1
had received in Europe. With this mutive, I St- r
tended the Theatre, and to fay that I was pleased r
with her performance would be doing injtiftice to 1
J my fceling6, aod faintly conveytlie ideas that were a
excited in my mind by the bBRe of talents, that t
obfeured the eye of the. eiitic, and captivated the t
fenfesof the fpeftatorg : whenever (lie expreQesthe c
various feelings which agitate the bosom of the in- t
r terefting Juliet, every foul is tremblingly alive, and S
vibrates in uiiifon with every paflion (he rcprefents. t
Her powers seem peculiarly fitted for this tharac- a
ter ; the melodious flexibility of voice, cliaftity and c
gracefulnefs of action, and propriety of dflivcrv, a
all conspire to astonish and delight us. If Shake- (!
fpeare InmMf could have beheld the darling- of his I
fancy perforated by Mrs, Merry, delufioj miolit p
have overcame his ienfes by the momentary belief 1
that he saw the reality of thof. fce.es, and the i<
force of that paffioa, which his imagination has so b
elegantly drawn. In representing charters, where U
ove, tendernels p.ty, with the reft of tho amiabU .
train of our affedion. are alternately predominant, ,1
Mr. Merry is unrivalled. I will venture ,0 assert 0
the opinion, that pet formers teprtfenc with more
justice, those prions of which they have a real-r o
, or lcfs tmaure iB their native difpo(ltio a », S nd i j, -
on this principle that Mrs. Met rv r*hit,;,. u . P
; "■
• V" -
-. be held up the object of our aKK " UUK,,t to "
, the idol of our relard aTlon t""' ?" d V " ,Ur
it., ««** of -
we may calculate OR Z "
feme criminal 4tßre to hjr ass i 1
may be seasonably brought ,0 a f"J c J 7*' P '
ger, and a foundation laiJ for a 1) l f 'r
tion, by witneflins (h amp l!u> 'oujh refot.ma- et
attend thbfe fiaitious chaiadkr- pu " l{ j} n,ent te
fed to have adlcd from V , ?.,* re f u PP°-
our nature. In Mrs Meri v^" 3 P<>fu " >,lK of \
inftrumest, for the accomnHri *' V '°T 3 l )ow " ful
cial effects that result from » ° 1 be " efi " w
and Mr. WigntlJ deserves the th '• b )
for haying engaged an !u of thc Public h,
Chief ornament, of Z bZ!'■ W3S °" c of ,he «
outa tival i a Amciica. "- urc P c ' a "d wth- a
! " AMATO* DR4M 4TIs<
\
■ From the (New-Tor, y M'mcrvi.
Thk ANSWER.
[■Concluded fr«m yeflerday's Gazette.]
The French nation will not persist in asserting.
that becatffe the exercise of rights which (he has
claimed as legitimate on former occasions, become!
inconvenient when exercifcd by others, she may
therefore refufe to acknowledge and refpeft them.
This would be the language of an haughty despot,
in a conquered country, not of justice, honor, and :
good faith from one friend to another.
It is said that the 18th article of the treaty with
Great-Britain, suspends all the commercial rela
tions between the United States and France, by
preventing the fapplics looked for by France from
this country.
This article has not introduced any new cafe, in
which provisions may be contraband : It only alters
the eonfequence resulting from a seizure of them, i
when they are so. Valin (i vo], 264) fays, "By
our law, and the law of nation*, provifians are not
prohibited, except to plates befnged or blockaded." j
The article eomplaincd of, fays explicitly, that |
whep provisions and other articles not generality con- t
traland are become so, according to the exijiing law ,
of nations, and (hall, for that rtafan, he seized, they ,
(hall not be conflfcatcd, but the owners (hall be <■
" Si completely indemnified, and reccive"btfi;les a rear
a . fonable mercantile profit. This principle operated ,
as an encouragement for American vefTels to feck v
.j, the French markets, by insuring theft agair.lk iols,
h , if they happened in any instance t , «be interrupted t
l( j in the voyage—France, I presume, f
n our vessels bound with provisions to a place besieged f
„ or blockadaded, liable to ftizufe, after due notice n
jf of the fail ; if, instead of this, they contend for t
the privilege of paying for them according 'to the c
terms of the treaty with Great-Britain, 1 suppose h
,f it will Hot ( be denied to t/iem. But if, under pre- h
fence that aveffel is bound to a besieged or blockaded t
n part, wheß (he is not, either France or Great a
Britain should seize or detain her, it is an injury n
, not authorized by the treaty, or the law or|wtion». ti
! This is what both nafi(Jbj have done, when, their j|
. inteiefts and necefiities required it—sometimes with v
e and often without any apology—and what they ti
will often continue to do, [fear, as long as they 0
)( know we cannot ptinifh them for it. B
n Thcfe injuries are said to have been received while \
e every object around reminds us of thetyrandiof d
. Britain, atid the generous aiTtftance of France, dur- c
e iDg ihe American war.
it The generosity -of France and the ingratitude of tl
n the United States have been often suggested by r
some of our own citisens, and we are now fte- tl
lC prcached with it by France herfelf. Gratitude is 0
r _ due for favors received ; and this virtue may exist h
s _ among nations as well as among individuals: but w
lt the tnjtive of the benefit mud be solely the advan- so
n f a £ e "f party 0 « whom it was conferred, else a !
it ceases to be a favor. There is positive proof that r j
I' ranee did sot enter into the alliance with us in yv
f* r our edmantage; but for her mvn. The S
whoiccourfe of the neg'ociation, as well as a poll- h
tivc knowledge of the, fact, proves this. She re. C i
w fitted ail our folicitatiens for effe&ual afliftance for V ;
y near three years; and rose in her demands during si
c the campaign of 1777, wlien our affairs presented p
n raoft-tfrratcfling afjJefit." " " 7" "i
s Memorials were presented in August and Sep- ni
_ tereibtr of that year, while general Burgoyne was V
d advancing from Canada, in a stile of importunity, t in
. proportioned to the daoger we were in from > junc- tt
;l - tion of the two armies ; and they were received in
;r with inereaied coldness, from the fame cause - f\
0 w htn the knowledge of the capture of Burgoyne's tl
: army arrived in December, fearing we might be ti
e aisle to do the bulincfs without them, the French h<
C ' C ° Ur V' egan t0 tllan 8 c tone - In January, the 0!
t British minifler gave notice in the house of cam- ti
mons, that he meant to propose terms of accom- ]i
d modation with America. Thr French ministry, on rc
u t*e arrival of this intelligence in France, iminedi- ef
c ately pre, Ted the concision of the treaty, which M
t they had refilled for three years, and proposed !
c terms much more favourable for us, than tbttfc eur {c<
c commissioners had offered, iud tl.ey had refufed I w
• L before ; Thc treat y was ri g net) 1 s
,k ° , P frcmc no generosity in all a.
i. this. I hey did then. z s »e have done now, and j
-as every d.fcermng nation will do—they regarded 'fe
1 only their own mterefl and advantsge, and not that h!
, o any othet nation. Jn thc interval between tfee ' si,
■ ceciaiation of independence and the alh'anee with S
s France, that court sometimes ordered awa* our m
t privateers, and sometimes reftorcd their prizes—
f i hey r«hifcd to receive an ambaflador or acknow. t„
" ! e ;S e . uur independence— A!l which was for fear of '01
j bringing i'rance prematurely into the war. The
e fad is, that the French spoke of very different
t terms, as the condition of their afift.net, before
, thc capaure of Burgoyne, from those actually a , rrc ,j
t or, %ftwwa:d}, 1 b j
e There can be ro doubt, (hot our fucctfs on that ! w
r occasion, and the di-fpafition it appeared to j,^J hi
5 P , rtK U " r d B'h.lU minift,f, were the c «
1 -te causes of that alliance. It was certainly t} : ,-
• mtcreft ot the French to unite with America in ,hc ,t
war agiinft Great Britain, They therefore acted
S r f l ,h ' s « though with too much tr
> refinement in putting ,t off so lonj ; but it is n,,f I
■ -the intei*a of the United States to he L
■ any witr whatsoever much less do thvy dclhc 10 P
' z^;ri: ha i' K
• gratify the hatred or iv.vc the interest of another, w
. W._hj|j f S a t j iftJaying it down as f„
: the wa'r of E o< 10 f " ft<:r ?. , / dvC ' be dl ™» i'»« 0 je,
the vvara of Europe; and -~f lV e hnift have a war J
prfeplc. be f ° r refufirg 10 d ep att irom
e„cv u ; B g ,°r n r n - haß / acd w;th ch
oy conctjiion, m any »»ft an re- i„/ i r
hands the admintftratioH of W
'f" ! "'J fr:o P'- r «<d, yielding to the v :
olenre of party on either tide.
They will then be-fore of the approbation and
fopportof the most m.uou,, ft j, ho " ™ *
lg , the most numerous part of all part ; M . gV*
Mi contrary, ,f, departmg f rom thefc pnnei le C
neJ unnecefTarily involve the.r country in ,| le Wrors 0 f
nj war. they will meet the merited execration of ~r J
m . men, and in th- e „d, the pumfhment justly <] U e , 0
ot, foch conduit, from an injured people. *
,ad : AMERICA NUS.
la' CO KGRESS of thm UNITED STATES.
HOUSE OF RIPREStJITATIVRS,
in Wednesday, December 14.
?rs —
m, Continuation of tht delate on the Met, in an r w , r
3y to the Prtjident's speech.
-»r f•• s rrt u,d thcrc fccrned <° »* w
• fads which a 1 were agreed, and some in which
« there w« a flriking difference of opinion. Geu
tld,me" >*«« perfeaiy in exprefW , hsir
• re pea for the Pr.Sdent, but to disagree as tifwhat
y related to companLns betwixt the Ctuatiun of th : »
country and that of foreign nation,. Whatever
■a- may be our feeling,, said he, with refp ft to other
C , nations it is as .veil to keep them to ourlelves. If
'* we are more happy than other* it ii well for ut -
but it would be better to leave it to other n.tioai
to dtfeover our t'uperior enjoyments, and notour*
" W ve ' m » ke » boast of them. It was probable, he
laid, that those nations which we comtniferateo,
ce might think themselves as happj at we, If gen'
»r tie men referred to the fpeeclws of the Btitifh Chan.
,e cdlor of the Exchecquer, it would be fuuud that
le he painted that country as the moil flourifhing and
hippy on the face of the globe. The French na
tion alio congratulated themselves with being a free
1 and enlightened country, and yet these were the
/ nations which were looked upon as a proper con- 1
*• tract to our fopcriority. Much l«ad been said of
•r this prosperity, and the commercial derangements
h which had taken place to foch an unexampled ex
-7 tent had by one gentleman been -very highly spoken
7 of, and by another compared to fpees 011 the fun,
and foch as jouglic nut to have been mentioned.
r Was this tbe way in which to speak of the piefent
diftrefles of commerce ; when our vessels inliead of
r * coming fafely into harbour were taken and carried
into Halifax, Cape Francoife, Cunaives, and 0-
ther ports ? This was a situation in which geatle
-7 men who spoke so lightly of it, wonlj not like
f- themselves to be placed. All these evils had their
origin in the present war, from which this country
I had by no means been exempted. Indeed, whilst
II we had been thus fufTering, France, he said, had
been colle&ing gold and silver and the moil valu
es ablc\ productions of the arts and fciencrt from va
!t rieus parts of Europe. Yet this is a nation over
" which we are fheddirig tsars. We cannot, said Mr.
*. Swanwick, fend a ship to sea, with any hope of
»- her arriving at tl* port to which she is bound. In
conftquence of this, the rates of infncance are ad
"■ variced to double their usual price. If the public
g funds were looked to, they would b<e found falling.
Agriculture it_vvai_tmc, was fluujnlung; luit this
was all that could be said. This, he observed, wal
'■ not the time for drawing the contrail now made.
'» What, he asked would be the probable efft& efdb
'> ting so ? Envy, he said, was created by good foe*
tune ; no one envied the poor. Shall we, said he,
d invite new depredations upon our commerce by
it- such reprcfentations of prosperity ? He did not
s think this exaltation of ourselves above other iia
>e tions was a fit fobjeft for this address. Wt might,
h he said, express our own fatisfa&ion with the stare •
e of our affairs without depreciating that of other na
-- tions. Our calling ourtelves the most free and en
»- lightened natien in the world, would not be well
n received by other nations, and could have no other
1- 1 effect than to create rivals. He wished the addrefa
h I to be re-committed in order that it miVht be made
1 '
d | more acceptable to all parts of the house. Whillk
ir 1 every one was calling out agsiinft foreign influnncc
d i ;y® were every day fuffering from foreigners—Mr.
e ! Swanwick referred to the treatment of capt. Jtffup,
It and to the unproteftcd (late of our seamen, and at»
d j tributed all the depredation* and injuries sustained
d by our shipping and commerce to be owing to our
it ' having no means of defending ourselves. The Prc
c tide t, he said, I:.V mentioned several thing* in ins
h Speech which did not indicate our prosperity ; 2-
ir mang other things he had hinted that a navy wis
- neceflary to our defence. Let us, therefore, said
M be moderate and fatisfied wirh our own fittMli
■ f on, but avoid rcfleiVing apon others.
«f [Debate to be Continued.J
e Friday, December 16.
Mr. Ames from the committee appointed to wait
j 'ipon the President to know when and whete he
f 1 would chufe to receive the answer of the Heufe so
e j,tiis speech, reported that he h«td '9 r f"
I- j ceivcit at his hotife to-day at two o'clock,
- j A report was received from the commifSontri of /
c the finking fund, which was ordered to be printed.
d A letter was received from the fecretsry of the
b treasury enclnfmg an account of the expenditure
t of the year 1796, and an eflimate of the appro
n 'priationa neeeflaiy for 1797.
» Mr. Sherburne presented the t^tit ion of J. Bap.
n lift Dumont in behalf of a claiy due to bis father,
. which it appeared had been deeded uprn If ft, fc r
s frort by the committee of claijfs. After some «t»
J jeftiop made to the receivinWu this petition a If
, ; cond time, to which it was mfottcd that new
« were adduced, it was refejftd to the committee of
claims. Hi Wt
Mr Swanwick resolution io ; tTre follow*
- ing efFrft— JT.
1 " Resolved, That Mtpft'umm referred tv>
t committee of covnmfceSwl manufactures diiiinu^
• the last felllon, anipot iepbtSd on, be refetrd
' the cotjimitjee this'-feffiun."
' On (notion <if the house farßiel i'"
felf into a committee of the whole on t!ie Pieli«
' dent's speech, Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair, when
f the speech having been read, the following refeu
1 tions were agreed to, reported, and jftenw-i
1 taken up end agreed to in the house—" Hefolred, Thit enquiry oaght to be made in
tith« ft ate of the navy eftacflithment ordered by
1 rmer a&s of «ongrefs, and whether any and what
m*»l force may be necefTary for the protection of
t!ie commerce of the United States, and for the
ftmport of her flat;." Referred t« a feleft com
mitt«e of fi»e memhers.
" Refol»ed> That so much of the President's
fp'*ch at relate* to the enroaragement of manufac
tures, he committed to the committee of com
merce and manufactures
" .RtfoWed, That so much of the Prefident't
speech at lelatei to the promotion of agriculture,
be refeired to a feleft committee." A committee
of three members was appointed.
" Resolved, That an enquiry be made whtther
any, and what further mealuretare neceflwry to re
inforce the existing provifiong for the discharge of
the public debt." Referred te the'committee of
ways and meam.
•' Resolved, That an enquiry be made into the
afttnl fta'e of the fortification!, ports and harbors
of the United States, and whether any and what
further provisions are necefTary to be mule on the
ftt> je<3." A committee of seven members was *>"'
pciiired. • *Le Bretbn,
SURGEON'-DENTIST,
Pupil of the celebrated Mr. IXybcis, late Dehtlft tothe
King and Royal Family ofJfYance, member of the
College and Academy of Surgeons at !'aris,
Keeps a. complete aflb'-tmcnt oi every thing necefTary
to be nfed for the
Preservation of the Mouth anil I eeth.
Patent Minoral Teeth, andrjluman & Ivory ! eeth ;
Dentrifice in powder; Opiate; exoellent Elixir fir
sweetening the mouth and the teeth he
alio furnithes Brulhes and foft, Sp 'nges.
%* He lives in Chefnut-Wt, No. IJS. above
Fourth-flreet.
November »6. 118
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOtJGALL will ripen hislehool on' Mo
nday the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in .he morning, »t hi»
Elegant hew Ball R&ms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hours of tuition for young lidies, from 10 to 1 o c.oek
|bd Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings ;"aind lor
'oung gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the 'evenings o
a fame days.
\i ' 1 " -