;. : ' . . / $
of the Unite* States, & Philadelphia Dally Advertiser. h
Number 1315.] FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 25, 1796. [VOLUME X.
For NORFOLK,
Tl,e STX BROTH ? RS >
John Necdham. mailer; wil fail in 6
or 8 days—For freight or pillage apply to the captain
en board, or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Nov. it.
The Captain has a few barrels of Rum
and Oil on board for sale.
For Freight or Charter
•aaviso Europe or the W.lndies,
The new Brig FAIR AMERICAN,
"Richard Calley, Mailer ; burthen 145 tons; has
good accommodations, and is now ready to receive a
cargo :—apply to the Captain on board, firlt wharf
above the StiU-Houfe, S-uthwark, or to
lfaac Harvey, jun. (
Who has now for sale, at his ftorc, No. 5, South
Water street,
A quantity of Cayenne and Trinidad Cotton
Spanilh Soil Leather
And a parcel of Carolina Rice, in -whole and half
tierces. I Ith mo. irth. djw
BAR TERI
1 ■ i_ Sale, a good (Irene: built fhip,bur
\lTPV-® then 1 nearly new, well found
fcU ,s>V)j%f'.and can.be put tn sea at a fiaall expence.
Payment will be received iti English or
India goods, or if more ic-eeable to the purchaser, 3,
6, at d 9 months credit wbuhi be given on approved
notes, for furth-r particulars enquire at No. 8, South
Water-lireet, r.r No. 29 North Third-ltreet.
i_ d7t
L ... . A ■ For Madeira,
' Jhip Concord, 5
- Cnpt! John Thomson. For freight
or palfage apply on board, or to
Peter Blight ;
Who has for sale, a quantity of
Branny, in pipes
Whiting and Copperas, in hoglheads
Old Hock, in cases
Dutch Cream-Cheese, in boxes
Window Glafi
Empty Gin-Cases
Glass Ware, in boxes
Painters' Colours, ground in oil
Sweet Oil, in cases of a dozen bottles each
Hazlenuts, in sacks.
November 11. dim
, p 7- d
Wanted to Charter,
J iflifL A fact-failing Vessel,
£ ' ■ That will carry 5 or 6o<j barrels ; to
«. s£u*.3-a v.• load immediately for the Weft-Indies-
Apply to
Peter Blight.
November 10. dx
FOR-LONDON, U.
The capital (hip CERES, '
\. ';jrypvjg* T9 fail : —For freight or pall age
apply to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
John Vaughan, <_;
September to. Front-ftrcet. \
FOR SALE, f
7 H£ SHIP M A R r >
SAM U! L PARKER, Master,
Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to R
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co. VI
If the M ARY is not fold i» a few days, lhe will take C
freighf-for Hamburg. Apply as above. M
Oflubgr 31. . ( d
Just arrived, and will this lay b<? Lan- A
deil from on board the brig FAVQIRITE at Chefiiut
street wlvarf.
25 Tons befi Rvffta Clean HEMP,
56 Tons old Sable flat I RON, ,
200 Coifobell RulTia COHD \OE, aborted fires,
400 'Piece« brown RulTia SHEETINGS,
100 Bofis Rufßa' DU(_!k,
240 Picces Ravens do.
20 Haif-d"4vn feather beds, and
A few pieces a (Tor ted DIAPER.
FOR SALU Br i„
Joseph Anthony and Co.
The sbove mentioned 45 R I G 4-
is 2 <f w days, and uk> freight on
\ t mode ate terms for BoOon or Salem, tor
hicn or pa(lage, apply on boa dor as aboVfr Sh
tor Charter,
Cr&ar; The Ship JO HN BULKEL T,
Avsks Stocku*, Mailer.
- An exce '^ ent v c-oak and cedar built 1
n '*bout 3000 barrels burthen.—Ap-
JeJfe 'iff Robert Wain.
Nov. ( l
. For London, «•<*
:e ft ' l P Willidin Penn,
;^_J? mes J°fiah, mailer. Wil] fail with all I
convenient speed. For freight or paffaee
apply to the Captain 011 board, or to
Jeffe and Robert Wain. I
November 10, .17.94. (j
■ For Lisbon, La
"lheDanilh barque Beneventura,
Samuel Stub, Malter,
;i\ A good veflel of about two hundred I
Tpply\« i *^~ to " SbUrtW For fre 'g ht or P _
Jeffe 1$ Robert Wain. beir
N° v - 7' d ed t
For Liverpool, I«d
The Ship DOM J NICK TERRr,
Dkhart, Maftrf.
e " ? P art of her cargo engaged.'—
A re, K"t Or passage apply to the inaf
" =• ' ter on board, at the whar. of the sub- AT
or,
7# -Robert Wain. A ;
eT -1- d. a
For Sale or Charter,
The Brig Lady Washington,
f Built in New-England in 1790, and
un completely repaired the present year; £he is 133 tens t
burthen; has (lowed 515 hhds. of feed, and 14!,c00M. f(
Itav -s, and is now in good order to perform an European
voyage with little eipenfe. 'For particulars and terms
of payment apply to the mailer on board, or to
Samuel Coates,
No. 84, South Front-Hieet. J
[■ -dlfot on board said vejfil, for sale,
Forty hoglheads Newbury Rum.
November n. *▼ *
VJ, ~ ' L
For Sligo and Killibegs,
, r f The American Ship Nakct,
Cuthbert Riggs, mailer.
f a i| with all convenient speed. For
. freight or paflage aoply to
William Bell; V
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflbrted
ilf 3 Bales Itifh Fiannels, and z boxes Linens
»5 Pipes Brandy \
— Madeira Wine ; Indigo . Ruflia Matts,
Also, n)
r . A few barrels Pnme IRISH BEEF, PORK, ar
,d OATMEAL, Sic. lil
e. November 11, 1796, mwftf ac
For Sale, or Charter, in
■d The Shi P DIANA,
• h Samutl Pile, Mailer, ta
Rurthen 20J 47-95 ions regifler, built in 01
—~\J Philadelpiiia in the year 1792, of live oak m
and red cedar, and was Iheathed 13 munths ago, Ihe t ' <
has just had a fomplrat out-fit, and m.y be sent to sea °|
at a very trifling expence. 1
For terms apply to
:,t Philip Nicklin Sis Co. £
VCho have for sale on board said vejfcl, th
17 calks of fine yellow paint. ta
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing Hates. 1"
1 box ink Hands and note prefles. tb
14 bales of failAnvafs. bt
''find on hand,
Imperial "V ca
Hyson, and, > TEAS. 4
Souchong I 3;
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the firlt quality. la:
19 tubs Quickfiiver. b L
2 chells Bandanno handkerchiefs. te;
A few chells Manchester goodswell aflbrted i« Cor- di
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Mullinets, Dimities, &c. 15
3 boxes black sewing silk. ro
liio crates Queens ware well aflbrted. is
10 tons Iheet lead. io
0 Nails aflbrted, flat and lharp points. ar
London ParticnUr, ~r- ■ U
London Market, / Made.ra Wme m ptpes Bl
New-York Market, ) 1,111 cl(
40' pipes and 10 hoglheads Tsneriffe wine. ru
__ 8 tierces Snake Root. 9 S°
230 loes Mahogany.
- Nar-r. - tth&ftf
Imported in the late art-ir'ils from Europe and the
Weft- In die j, foi
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Kum tic
Martinique Moh(l"«s. in hoglheads the
Choice old Lilbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-calks Ph
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-calks <
Malmley Madeira Win«, in pipes and quartsr-calks —
Tenerifl'e Wine, in pipes
3 Ruflia & Hetnilh Shaeting and Ravens Dunk, in cases Fn
Window Glass, 3 by to, in bokes 1
:■ Criflle Mills and Straw Knives, in calks J
Mil{ Siws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxfcs '
Also, on hand, j^ a
A few chells of Bohea Tea ; Jesuits Bark ; A Cases- x?jc
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of Cbflaes, p n
r Battas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Han<lker- Gi
chiefs, and a complete aflbrtmcnt of c-4 and 6-4 01,
Boulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers If Co. Ah
Odlober 20 d2wm&th2m
Irish Linens, &c. Sw
Imported per the Jhips G/afgoiv, from Dublin, liber
ty, from Cork, and btig Mentor, from Self aft, 1
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In whole and half boxes,
Aflbrted from nd. to 4s. fteHlng-Alfo 5-4 wide r
oneetmgs, and kiw priced yarn and worlled Hose.
On Hand, <
7-g Wide Lawns. Jit
Diapers and Table-Cloths
A few boxesTickens and Checks
A few bales Flannels "
Cork and Bclfail Sail Cloth, Nos. 1 and 6
25 Boxes -> C 6 1 y 8
10 Ditto V Window Glass, ) 7 by a' {
5 Oifto J C 8 by 10. f
Ihe above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the f
drawback, and will be disposed of by the package on »
rcaionable terms. "
James, Clibborn & English, qua
, . No - 6, N. Front-street. /
toth mo. 19th. o
OLD A
London Particular Madeira Wine, £
In pipes, hoglheads and quarter-callcs,
Landing this day at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, and n
for fal< by
Joseph Anthony & Co.
1 Nov. 1. d A
THE Partnerlhip of JONATHAN HARVEY & Co.
being this day Dissolved by mutual confcnt, those indebt' r'!
Ed to said firm ate refuelled to make speedy payment to
Jonathan Harvey, who iv<uthorized to receive the fame neXt '
awd those who have an/ demands will pleafa. to bring in
their acconntJ to h'rfi for settlement 0 The
— J I
The Business will■ be Continued 11
By Jonathan Harvey,
AT HIS STORE NO. 106, S. FRONT-STiREET ■ 1
Where he has for Sale, ' :
A general assortment of Dry Goods.
November i 4} 1796.
r ~J7 / J
To be Rented,
* on -> A complete Coach-Hcufe,
and With flabling for four horses ; situated near the
tens University, with a pafTage into Market-ctreet —apply,
t>M. for terms, at No. 49, "South Front-street.
pein Nov. i). - -
THIS t)AY IS PUBLISHED,
Price 37 1-2 Cents.-
reet. The Pretenficns of Thomas Jeffer
fon to the Presidency,
EXAMINED,
— And the Charges against John Adams
'refuted.
Addrefled to the Citizens of America in genera!,
' .. ' and, particularly,
_ To the Electors of the President.
Sold by
W. YOUNG, MILLS & SON, Corner of Second
and Chefnut-ftreets.
November 5. tts
FOR S A L E, ,
A valuable Plantation,
IN Frederick County, Virginia, bounding nearly hrtfe
miles on tht riyer Shenandoah, between Afhby's l Gip
and Snicker's Ferry ; 66 miles from Alexandria, a;:d the
like diftanca from the Federal City. It contains 107611
tf acres, 600 of which are cleared, the refidus finely tim- t
bered ; the whole Limestone or River Bottom ; abounding
in fine flreams and springs ; above 80 acres on the bank
of the river may be watered at pteafure. It is capable
of being dividtd into Lots of 100 acres, with water in
tach, which renders it peculiarly convenient for grazing
t in or culture. Its situation for Health or elegant imprsve
oak meat is not to be surpassed in icy inland country, and if
she deemed too large for one Farm, may be divided into two
, or three fmalicr ones, uniting in common advantages.—
I'tiere i&.uew ersfled fm the Estate a good Merchant-
Mill,'with two pair of ftunes (on a large limeflone spring)
that rents for 466 dollars per ann. and ©n another never
falling-faring a good Saw Mill, with a flutter wheel ;
there is plenty of pine timber in the neighbaring moun
tain, and a stream fuffkient for another Mill with four
pair of liones—thefe are adjacent to or immediately on
the banks of the river, the navigation whereof is about
being opened into the Potomak and for more than ICO
aiiles above the mills. The other improvements on the
Estate are a new commodious Barh, the loft of which is
capable of containing 1500 bushel ; the tHrefhing-floor is
41 ftet fjuare, well planked : another (double) Log
Barn, with feeds all arouud : aDiftillery, with three
large Stills, and a Granary above that will contain 500
bufhcls, well covered with fhinglcs, and a flream of wa
icr, conduced by troughs, running thro' it; at a small
!or- distance is a large Cow-House and StaVe, with flails for
&c. 12 cows, paved with stone in the European manner, with
room for above 40 waggon loads of hay: a little further
isafhong ftpne-walltd Spring-House, completely fitted
lor a Dairy. The whole of these Mills and Buildings
are at a proper distance from each other, and from the
Dwelling, which consists of three commodious Fram
>es Buildings, with the neceifary conveniencies. A well en
closed Garden of the fined foil, with a stream of water
running thro" it; two large Apple Orchards; several
good Quarries for building and lime stone ; a number of
for Managers, Blackfuith, Cooper, and lodg- f
ing; for Men of Colouradd greatly to the convenien- J:
cits and vtdticof this"Estate.
the The l 3 "rchafer, on paving one half the price agreed ®
for, may be accommodated with a considerable credit for 1
the remainder, and with the Cattle, Horses, Waggons, ®
Farming Utensils, and Furniture, it a reasonable valua-
t»°n> for o'htr particulars, application may be made to I
the fubferiber on th £ Estate, to Thomas Fitzfimons in
flcs Philadelphia, or Matthias Slough, Lancaster.
J. Holker. i
Spri»gft}ury. igth Prober. 1796—31 ft iaw6
This Day will be Landed,
fej From on board the brig Dispatch, Captain P. Brum, r
from Malaga, at Morris's ■frharf, jiifl above the
Drawbridge,
FRESH FRUITS, viz. C
Rlifins, in kfigs, boxes and balksts s
<=- Figs in keg» R
«> Prunes in boxes
- r ~ Grapes in jars g
'-4 Olives in ditto K
Lemons- in chtfts S
Anchovies in kegs B
Almonds, feft (belied, in sacks h
Also, C
Brandy in butts Si
Sweet Mountain Wine in quarter-calks—&c. V
For Sale hy E
Peter Kuhn. ®
November 17.
SALTPETRE. oi
A larce quantity of Double-Refined Salt Petre for
sale at No. 25, South Third-street.
November c. '
Belt Bolton & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbls.
47 bhk prime Coffee, -
Befl Rnfton Beefj
Cod si kli in hds.
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and 1 „ ,
le Northern J" to
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior th '
quali-y. ;
A few boxes excellent brown soap,
c ' 6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lisbon Wine. \
A fe<v sacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muflms. A
FOR SALE BT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co. -
n <slobf-r 7 t. ,
-—.. -••■■■■ d
A Philadelphia, November 6, 1796.
LL persons defirous-to contrast for furnilhing of
Rations and Quarter-Malters stores, for the
troops in Philadelphia or Fort-Mifflin, on Mud Ifiand
• durmg the year 1797-are requested to fend their pro- J
pofals sealed, on or before the firft day of December
pext, to '
• TENCH FRANCIS,P ur v e y Or; l
The component parts of the Rations, are «
J pound of Flour or Btead (
I pound of Beef or 3-4 of a pound of Pork y,
1-2 a gill of Rum, Brandy r,
or Whiskey (
I quart of Salt 1 ~
a quarts of Vinegar !
z pounds of Soap or Ritionj
1 pound «f C iwa {e. j
Nov. 3
The brig Weft-Indian's Cargo
Will be Landed on Monday morning,
the The ZTft irjlant,
ply, At South-rtrect Wharf,
From the North fide of 'Jamaica-
I«o HojrfheEtls *nd ope barrel Caffie
13 Hogftveads of Sufpr
ISj Hogfhsads high proof Rum.
Pot- Scle- by
;r- " " ' . • PETER blight.
November 19. 2 r *
For Sale,
us By 'Jehu Hollingfworth, & Co.
45 hhds. Well-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
5 Barrels best Indigo, and, *
' A few thousand bufheJt of Turk's liland fait'.
Oft 17- ■ d.
Jujl Landing,
, n( i And for' Sale, a quantity of
BOURDEAUX BRANDY,
s T'ROM on schooner Lyrij & Polly, Oliver
— x Jenkins master. lying at Wilcock's wharf, for
terms, enquire on board said fcliooeer.
November 15th. fiw
ate For Sale,
Ja P A Three-story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
s h e x\ street,"between Front and Second ftnsets, in which
j NTeflrs. James Calbraith&Co. have for manj years (and
im • now do) carried on business.
,n g Poffeflion will be given in one month, or sooner.
ink For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
ib . le HECTOR C 1 LBP AITH.
rin Aprfl 41. §
ing , r*
.ve- Juit ianaing,
*' sit South-Jireet wharf, from n board the fhtp Scdg
ley, Captain f/ca'ge, from St. Peter/burg,
tut- The following Goods :
ng) Ruflia Sail Duck, firft quality.
ver Do. Sheeting do.
el ; Do. Diaper.
Un- Do. Huckaback.
our Do. Crash.
on Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to the lb. {if the
out Englilh size.
100 Do. White Candle Tallow.
the Do' White Socp in small boxes.
lis ©o. Cordage of fine yarn. '
r is Ravens Duck.
-■og Isinglass, Ift and 2nd fort.
ree Horie Hair uncurled.
)CO Russia Bar Iron.
■va- Do. Hoop Iron.
lall Do. Nail Rods.
for xo Tons Oakum and Junk.
ith St. Petersburg Clean Hemp;
her For Sale by
Philips, Cramond, & Co.
the 11. §
m - Fashionable Waistcoating.
ter GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
ral SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
il. , HciS per the jOiana, from London,
c £_ Clouded and striped Spinilh Swanidown
Clouded Erminats and Moleikins
;cd Striped do. and do.
f or Figured Manillas
nSj Scarlet figure-d Ermtnets
M .' Printed Florinetts
to Do. Ca (finds and Caffimeres
in Superfine printed Quiltings, newest patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general assortment of Dry
Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season.
m, November fc dt f -
hc LANDING,
Out of different ve/els from Englana, and for falc
by the jubjertbers on r er>fen able terms,
Superfine and common cloths, and caffiniers
Ribbed and fh'iped do. do.
Blankets, mottled green and silk rugs.
Superfine blue, Claret, and common coatings.
Kerseys, Bear-flcins, plains and Halfthkks,
Swanlkins, Serges and Flannels,
British Ingrain Carpeting,
Hatsafiorted in casts of is doz. each.
?? ,a ' c shinties, Panted Callicoes'and Handkerchiefs.
r » anc * Scarlet Snail,
Worftcd, and Cotton hosiery
?, e " ers - Velvets, Corduroys, Ac. &c.
fed sT rt r° a ? Drds of d Superior quality.
fed 8d rod Ild. sod. nails, and fry.ng p-ans,
_ _ AntlTirtriicnt of Ironmongery, Cutlery and a variety
of India cotton, and silk go.jds.
: or Thomas iff JoJhua Fijhrr.
Alfnliv n\ c C 5' Dock-lltrcet.
Alio by the Glasgow from Dublin,
- 1-8 and 4-4 'n(h Linens afforted'in boxes of 30 pieces
, do. Brown, Glazed Linnen. " pieces,
Qit - 17 1 dtf.
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER Co.
An Invoice of Cordage
»*r
)T the w P " Wift ' fromHul1 ' entitlfd to'crawba'ck'
—— : dtf
. f , „ FOR SALE,
A few hog (heads of choice RUM,
A number of barrels of BEEF, ant! PORK
And a few kegsof LARD, of a superior qt'lity.
Enqillre at No. north Water ftreef. 7
November 8, 1796 d|f
i o hogsheads
5 Pipes Vinegar,
Eer Sale, by
c . Ezekiel Hall,
> Nov. 7> IVo - ao» Penn Street.
For Sale.
7 cases coarse hats
Copper bottoms and sheets
Shot, all: sizes, patent and common
Sheet ana barr lead
English Ihoes and boots in cases
1 m plates
Gold warcWs
Taunton ale in caflcs.
Apply to - •
Simon Walker,
Nov. 8. la 4' So - Fourth Street.
di4t.; • R 1 C E S -L' U R R E N T.
Philadelphia, Nov. 2.5.
rIJR QTAKTITr —BOlt-AXS AT 100 CEMTS.
Cu. Dells Cti.
dxCHORS per lb. II AW/, 8-/, io*\ rid,
~jil'vm, F.nglifb,pr ewt 10 and lod, per lb, 13
/)/",, _£VA, pr Ik. II Nutmeg,, per Ik. 1»
jif et, pot per tm, 180 Oil, linfted, pergall. 133
' F: T* r . 100 Olive, >
Arrtcly perfaHon, A'«a, ptr cafe, 9
' Hacon, Shoulder,pr\ It. IO ——Sweet, bejl, in
f<7toVi, 13 fnft,, per kox, lO
J}rtnd-;, common, I J!:;,, lajlets, 11
—Collin', * batt'es, 1
■' isilttla, per ton, 90 pern.recti pr gall 106
£1 lilt,per M. 7 —Train,per kkl. I#-
ISrraJ, /tip, per ovf. SJJ . -iVhale, per gal. 40
Off 9 Pertcr per eajk, J 33
Ditto, fault letter
I per doz. 2JO
fc rkegs 80 —American do. hctt.
Jii\Ty American,in bot~ inel % 1
tin, prt dozen, hot- Pitch, per ibl. 4
ties ineludcd % 2 Pork, Burlivgtm , per
flit*, per barrel, 6 barrel, 19 2©
Jtoards y CeJar^perMfeet 3° ■' ■ ■ Lower county, 19
lie arty Carol in +, 16
>■ ■ m New England, 1$ 60 Pcajy Albany, pr busk. 93
Oak, 20 ' pgpper, per lb. 36
—Merchantable fnne, 10 Pi/nento, 14
—f'o- 17 Raiftns, beftper leg 10
11 Dittoperjar, 4 5®
The above are theJha flop Ditto per box 8
prices y .for the yard Kice, per eivf, 5
trice, add I dollar % Rojin per barrel 4 5°
%3 cents, per M. Ruvt, yamaicp, pr gal. I 67
JStimjlone in rolls, Antigua 1 JO
m;/. 3 —— Windward 150
Seefyliopon, per b11.16 a —Earlddoi I 27
Country y ditti ,J 5 Country, AT. £. 97
.. . - FrefbyCiut ■ Saltpetre, per nut, 5®
Butter per lb. I| 1 20 Safj'.ifrus ton
1 in Ay* 1 4 14®
Candles Sperm»lb. J 6 £/«/, Ger K-an. per lb. 14
- /Pax —Enrlifb, blif.pr ewt. 11 14
» ■ Myrtle I Vex 2C —American, per ion 133 33
■■■ Mould t alio rv 18/0 19 —CroivL'y' jy pr faggot 13 33
—.. -» T)ipped 15 Snake rooty per lb. 3 J
Chsefey Englijby per IL. 28 brown per Ih. 12
Country II 13 —IVhite 14
Cbficolaie *J a 33 —Cajlile 22
Cinnamon 66 Starch 14
Clwes I ts° Snuffypr dcz bottles 5 53
Cocoa, tier cn>t. SO Spcrwaeeti rejiredpr lb.
Coffee, per lb. 2J 3° iStf{7 English. No.
Coal, per bufbel, 30 I 1, per yard, 33
Copperas, per art. 2JC . .-Bq/kny iV«. !,</#. 3®
Cirdage, American, per■ , , JVg. 2, d'o.
l6<l 18 Sugary lumpy per lb. *4
Cotton, per lb. 33 * 9 5& ■■ Loaf, Jietgle res. ZJ
Currants. 16 Ditto double ditto
Duck, Rufjia, per piece, 18 ■ ■■Havannah, ivbiit 20
— Ravens 12 Ditto brown 16
J}ut;b Sail Duck 22 . -—Mufeovadop.ewt I3«I{ 67
Feathers, per Ik. 66 /»r.
/Zax, ditto JI
f iascfeed, per bufiel I ty. Turpentine pr gall. 66
■ flour, Sup. per bit 11 sa//, a Hum, pr bujhell 66
■ 1 ' 10 j~Z,iverpo*l j2
■" Bur rniadl. beA, 6a 8 —Cadiz 60
— Mealy Indian 5 —Lifion 56
——ditto Rye, 6 budding W. 0.
Shipf.uffp et. 267 frames per ton 22 67
pujiic per ton, 2 J X»/Wo Z/w Otfi, 26
(S/>, Holland per cafe, 75° Do, Red Cedar pr foot
Do. per gall. I 3® Shingles IS inches,pr
Clue, /*r 18 ilf,
racc,pr c-zvt 18. Zto 2 /-rt 91a
Ditto, cemmcn 14 Ditto $feet irtjfed 1J 11
Ditto, ground »4 S/Kw,, 1000, 6j
Ginfetrg, p.r Ik. 30 45 33
GunpoviJer, emtio', per -J?«/ „i ,7#, j 8
f - c *2 Leogan j6 33
I)ilta, fncg'.r.xeel, 16 : Earni JO
Grain, Wheal pr k I 33a I jS Heading 44
"■ Py'i I Siinj Otter, ke/tprpiete 333
O'tj, 4& -— 26
Indian Com, 97 —Fox, grey 3*'«54
Barley, 1 2J —Ditto red I ic
Sef.Jh.-Uedpr.il>. —Martin, - c
Buckwheat per —Fitters ",y
lufiel, ■< ,~V 73 —Bear* 3
Hams, pr. I*. 13 —Jfaeoom
JHemp, imported, per —Mujl-rate, 37
*'"» 3®° —Becjer, per Ik. J ('I
American, per Ik. 10 —Deer, in hair ill
Herrings, per bbl. 6 T*r,
Bides, raw pr.li. zto J —Carolina, $1 gall. tSO
Hep', 14 Turpentine, per kit. 320
Mog/heud hoop,per M. JO Tobacco, j. River kef
Indigo, French per Ik. I»j 100 It. 7„ g
Carolina, I Fetcrjlurg 6t 6 <0
Irons, fadpsr ton 133 33 Fotonvmac 3„ 5
i"n, eafUngs per cvti. 4 Georgia 6. 7
—Pennfyfolsarjcarce Carolina 4„ c
<r~Hyf„, prU. , „ a
Ruff a per ton 97 —Hxfmjhin, gj
S* — Souchong, iii ,3
*——>»«', 114 33 —Congo, so
Nail rod,, 13333 —Botca, , 5
Junk per i-uit. S Talloru, ref,ned, per Ik. '14
lard, tsvgjp a Ik. I 4 Tin, per box ' t J jo
Xeadinpig,, perrwl. 533 per Ik. to
ifiU'ars, 7 Verdigreafe, dc. I
>3 33 Vermillion, t Jc
' 9 urrtijh, per gallon,
Zearitr, Jii! fer 11. 10 IVax, B,es, per lb. 33
Lignum vita per ten, J 4 Whale-bone, i»ng,pr ii. u
S'-ffa-ood, jO Wine, Madeira pr p. it 6
Mace, per 11. 13 — — r , j
Maciarel, left per btl 11 Tcnerijfe,pr gal. 73
■ g Ftyal, 7O
Ifadctr, bejl per It. 20 Fort per pip c J6O
MrrUt, -umfh, prfmtt 60 Do.inl-itt.fr hz 6
Meflj-ar,, perfoot 60 Claret,t.ercaJL 30
Mclajes, per gall. j6a6li Sk.rry, ter gallon 140
Muflard, per Ih. 46 Malaga, ~c
' ' JUMTt M bottle
per dozen, I 20
%
S T 0 C K S.
Sii ph-Ceat . . lis - 0 t0 ,
"iurcepcrCem . . x b
4i pel Cent. - — ...... . , >
SPtr Cent.
LVftrred Six per Cent n
Uj*.NK United States, . . . r't!
P«iinl)'lv»iiu, ... . iito24 da
North \mcr«ca, ... . 40 to 4 j do
liifuusce Couip. N. A. Iharc., * i 5 pcr cent
l J enjJyiv. » i-i 3 per tt . below r , r .
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 dijrs, fieri, par.
—- <•' todays, t B 161 i«i
—at 90 days, j6l 1 i- 4
Amftsrdaia, 60 day*, per guilder, , 0
— 90 day«, 4: (
.. •
For the Gazette of the United stsWi.
No. VIII.
\Cor.cluied frf.n ycjlerdaj*s Gitzelfe-J
To the £/effort of the Prrjtilent of the United Stales
Ih theantient limited monarchic*, tht whole mass
of the UTinoblc.! people, were gathered as upon an
'' American cicdioti day to co optrate in legislation
with the-hereditary orders. The demarcations of
power among the three branches were laofr, imper
,, fe& and mcorreft. The awful and iVportant judi
ciary powers were nftl fixed. In America the prin
ciples are much better known, the practice is far
superior and the effects coricfporidinjfly happy and
favorable. The judiciary power, under the j[ene
tjl government, is mure completely separated and
,6 iiidependent thun in any frtrmer inllance, much
more so than in England—an incalculable bltfiLig-.
• c For truly and moji emphatically may it be laid, that
(•' the jadiciiiy (imer, under a free written con flit u
tion.is the Jhcet anchor o( the political veilel. The.
hereditary tourt of appeals blended with the leg if
fat ive pawer and including the impediments to jus
tice towards those, who ate not rich, from thcim
menfe expence, and to all suitors, from delay, as
tflablilhed in the hotife of lords, it far indeed from
, 3 iatisfatlory—and tht tenure of the very. Important
6 llation of the lord high chancellor, at the pleasure
4 ps the crown, is a far more dangerous departurr
from the divi/ion and balance of political powers
than is to be found in the American conftilutian.
But are the sober and itfietled objtclion# to the
o hereditary powers of kings and nobles rrfoivable
7 into a " mechanical" horror again (I names, having
0 no teafonble foundation ? Are they more extra
° vigajit, paflionate feeling into which mankind have
worfcea themfelvti up ? Are the objeilions to or
ders or ranks, exalting a few to the depfelTlou of
the reft of a nation no better grounded, ti:an a na
tural antipathy to an unpleasant found ? Or are
| thofeobjeflio'is, as extravagant as the
5 fanciful emotions of a man would be, who (hould
5 canceivc himfelf to have been born with a natural or
1 physical antipathy to a pretty innocent ribbpnd of
■ red, blue, or grees ? But what fltall he thought of
I the republicanism of the implication, that tlie dif
franchtled inhabitants of any iimgdom have little
[ more ground of complaint againfithe conllitution,
than a certain mechajiical. extravagant feeling or
natural autipathy to words and ribbands
[ Observations, addrelTed to the people eif Atneri
ca upon lac fubjtft of a government oppcfite ir. its
( principles and conftru£lion to ours, are an ill proof
' of federals. They cannot be so.well lefted, as
by fltewing a contracted cafe. If one were to pro
; pose to change our Jingle executive, chosen by
' 1 ,3e boardt of elt&ort, into 3n executive c»>uncii ot
levrn, choien yearly by the joint votes of the rtem
ber* of the federal senate and house of reprefenta.
lives—lf he were no prppofe annual fenstora, in.
t flea of the prrfent term— If the fame person were
j to utge the veiling of the powers cf a tourt of
j chancery in a folr judge, to be annually appointed
by the executive council, he *-culd be jsf.iy conG
' dered as unfriendly to the efficiency ard (lability of
our government, or, in other wor, 1 ?, as an enemy
to the federal conllitution. If, i n J e ad of at. ex.
, ecu ive council, chofcn by the tegiflaturr, the de
i viatioa from the happy pode of electing out Cn
-1 K' c tnagiftrate were in the Opposite extreme, and
an hereditary kmg be indicate.d, foretold, represen
ted as tnevitable-and insinuated } and if inllead of
I annua! senators, the deviation from our present
mode of appointing senators, were also in the op.
polite extreme, and a corps of hereditary „„hle s ,
> with high judtaal powers over life, liberty and pro
( perty, were commended as of unexampled excel
, lency, do not fuel, perfoos infettfity Letray themjeivet
'■ tolhctoJlutim
of the Untied Statu, and to our present trartMity f
( matter bevwtied a flep itte
- irn P lledl y recommended by an example erf g very alar*"'2
■ ar *"'2 ! ,,turf » the approbation of that ex-
I air pie, in terms of-the moll plain and decided force,
i to vary our conllitution as tor the great and all-im
. dfrrMtve, the matter is rendered
ft.ll more fei.ous obf«r»«ion is m ule in re
terence to the following extract from tfic 34 th page
. of the in reply 10 Mr. Paine, which U
now under contideiatk>B. « The very aft (fayi
he writer) Ky "vh ch feptenniglparh'srperits were ef-
Üblifhed tngla«d. afford. fuJ,-,M profr that
to bedel" °! ? ' Ug " he CO " ihi " ,io " itfelf ought
to be delegated and even tK ercifed ly the government,
upon cert din critical occasions." I, L thi/ob
fci vat ion to the Americans, taken will, the former
federal'c"' ft" 8 dcfire 10 our
Prt ."I "'" 10 ,hat v{ ? And if a
Picfxlent be prepared for any other change, might
etefen,ar mi ' JOM, y- {et *< honfe of
rep.iientatives, in.some moment of iei\danger, but
exaggerated and factious alarm, give J*\C>
Not'onlv ap fd r*' and len ? i
Wot only a Prefideut and senate, but all their fa
or faintly intfrefts, might bring to S
we are told that "Mankind have ur.ij/rl dif
covered and P ,efe„e<l, »_^ fl ,„ <0
" l'S'T \P rather than J U eh as wt
chufe curfehi j.
A FEDERALIST.
For ths. Gajcue of tfc e United States.
Mr. Fesin®,
I HAVE been reading the French miniaer' fci
ttteii Adet ») n-te, as he calls it, to the President,
and believe hts object to be a, follow, :_Finding
limfelf recalled he takes the lail and only o pportu !
mty vf furuiftiing the enemies to peacc and order
tn this ffomit.y, with what will be called an eflkh!
gr. und of ccmplatnl against „ur happy govern,
mem J aod 1. the direflory is ab«Ht to take posses-
Con of Louisiana, wh.ch it is s uppo sed h a ; been
htuly ceded to France by the Spaniards t hi, „ ote
R>ay be intended as a niflincatioi, f„ r Bny Mw re
gulaticiiß which ikery may attempt to impose with
-# * v
]/' r '
i Y?Card ty the < r A* frMrnutiaiion of oi;:
citizens, on 'he wctlern waters, or n rty other plan that
the Jactbin parties in the two covntriet suppose will
ten J to divide the people I'rors the government.
This I observe lias been hinted by an individual in
France.
*. Jf Mr. Adet's inftrufliotis from the directory are
f» $s set forth in his note, the recent change that has
in taken place in the mind of that body mud be ow
•n i'ig to some plan and advice originating with, or at
lead approved of by a paity in the United States.
r " This man, without the fame pafiionate talents, has
improved upon the plan laid down by Genet. As
l- In the revolution, Great-Britain would not have
11 perfitted in the war but for a party among outfelves,
'd so it is in the present cafe ;at the fame time it mud
*- be allowed, thst t!ie French are at lealt on a loot
d Zing with say other nation on earth, in the business
h of intrigue.
J— If the Americans will fulFcr themfdves to he me
lt naced by the difta'orial and threatening (tile of the
J - note, tiiey can no longer be considered in the eyes
lc » of the world as a free people. Although falfhood 1
f- and unmetited abuse will always fail of their inten- 1
f- ded effedt, it inuft wound the feelings of every real I
1 American who had any thing to do in favour of
'8 I lie late revolution, to be told by a foreign mini/itr,
r> that we owe our independence, nay, our very exif
it tence as a nation, to the people whom he represents.
e To the treaty they made with us in 1778, aad to
r their armies who fought our battles i A few wards t
s in anfwerto thi« will be fufficient. It mini be ac- ,
knowledged by every sober ancj unprejudiced mind, ;
e that the people of France as such, had no more to [
e do with making the treaty or fending an army to j
% America, than the people of China. It was done t
1- by the king, and his ministers, without the advice, '
e and believe 1 migh: fay without the knowledge of
the people ; and what was the ? To htimhle (
f the pride and weaken the power of a nation, that r
was considered a natural enemy. It is also well
e known that the French court delayed the ratifica
e tion of the treaty until aftei (hey heard of the re- J
1 duftion of Burgoyne's army ; and belove the French
r troops arrived in America,there was every profpetft J
f that the iJTue of the war \v9nld be favourable. Tht t
f fad is, the American people taught the Ftench how
to procure their liberty, and iincerely wiih they
: may have virtue enough to maintain it.
An AMERICAN. ,
1 1
— rOR v THI GA7ITTE OF THE UNITED STATES. I
' Ml. FIMMO, r
( The late unwarrantable usurpation of power by
the executive of this commonwealth, has created a
r considerable degree of alarm among those citizens,
who regard theii legislature as the proper fourc(M>f
authoiity j who regard their laws as sacred, and t<
who wish to fee the executive, without favor or par- c
tialiiy, inipjicitly fubjeft to the letter of the law. 8
I'he limitation contained iu the law for the ele«- y
P tjon of rieftors of a President and Vice-President c
I°f tJntted States, is as explicit as words can
concur in making it. It was to be expected that a- d
j. governor of Pennsylvania might be able to afcer- it
tain, when twelve days after a fixed time would ex- ii
pire, without asking the opinion of ihe judiciary : □
It w«,» to be fnppofe-1 thn the judiciary would jTSe- ~ri
fore they gave the opinion required, examine the ft
1 law, which was within their reach, and not fuffer it n
to he said of them, that a defignmg secretary had p
f deceived them, in offering them the law deprived of n
its limitation.
But those whj supposed that the laws of Pean- si
fylvania were a sacred thing ; that they were equal- t:
: ly binding on the private citizen and the executive 5 si
have been most cruelly deceived : they have fee* n
their executive incapable of counti g twelve, refer p
the calculation to the judiciary in a molt mutilated p
fin e, and to crown the whvle they have fcen their tl
. judiciary, without examining the law, pass judge
meet on the mutiiated exUid thereof, so piefenled k
to them for ptifpofes at present unknown. <j
The law for regulating the ekftian of elea o rs, Ii
' p«!kd at the last fiflion us our leniflature,' appoints e
1 oni<ets who (hall tranfmlt the returns of the fame ri
. to ,he governor, «so that the fame may be deliver- tl
_ ed within fourteen days after the said election, and d
( the governor /hall enumeiate and afcertaiu the nuin. 2
bei' of votes given for each' and eveiy person, so as ci
aforefaid voted for, and (hall thereupon declare by «
, proclamation the names of the persons duly elefied t<
andl chttfcn, and fhail caufc a Roiification of their b
' electio* to be delivered to the ferfons so chosen, on b
or bctorc ihc last Wcdricfday in the said month." fc
e P""'f) 'Vinian who acknowledges the> fu- ir
preme authority of the legislature, fim'» no tquivo- ci
, j cal - no dubious point in this pafTagc of the law he ci
: j tieeusiiot mil to his neighbor for an opinion on it. r<
pi inat law does not exiit which is mote explicit in p
, j mentioning the duty of d,e executive. lc
J P'-it our governor (whether of his bivn prnper el
, . motion, or biall.' d, as some pretend to fay he is, by P
one who i 3 called the governor's governor) fees
" fludows, clouds and darkness" reUing upuii it j fj
aud he alone, of all men, Cannot foe clearly through ir
We will fay nothing of his having ple-Jneri his e'
I honor, that he would declare the result of the eTeo- t<
"on at the expiration ©t the limitation contained in b<
1 .e aw. Lii.tle is ;he honor of the man to be re- ft
I e , little is the confidence to be placed in him, ci
who, appointed by the people the head of the com- to
orionwealth, and whose duty it i* to fee the laws at
thereof faithfully administered, fteks the mod piti- in
tul iubtcifuge to evade doing his duty, when the te
execution would tend to the d&rcrahung the views, ac
si.
V. c will fay nothing of his having sent cxprcfles, w
(at whose diarge we know not) tb ha ft en the re- jo
turn,, which were expected ro be on thc roadi w \
: { 'V> a \ n opinion that by tl.eVp,
' /r r r le , RUV " n ° rof Pe »»f>!vania was, fc
■ to feetheW faithfully adminirtered 'tl
wHnout tavpr or affection.
I We boast of a conttitution that carerul&4«| W , f^
thchne between th« execiitive, judiciary an<fles»if. ol
ative departments. A (lately fabric, goodly tc -H
00k upon, and which we may be allowed to thick ar
: highly of. la proportion to the juliice of our ef- tr
tima.ton '.hereof, we should every «. an
tempt nwde by aay of those p«weu t» «ro(i the di- en
I' , ~ • V '"V s
II(Wfl. method tp prefcrve otn independence *8 a
nation, i« tp refill "pe*!jr, and' with just ,indignat
lion, all atfe'mpls of a ioreign power, io intermed
dle in our domeflic- government, under whatever*
pretexts they are made. Their patriotism will lea f
them to oppose, with firmnefs worthy the Ameri
can chara&er, every unwarrantable effort of the
bind : and thil diplomatic lull will be regarded in
jn its true light, as the last desperate effort, aide -
l>y a faction n»t less desperate, t«jt»akeuhe Usited
States a dependency on France, by acee-piin? for
Prsfideut a man of their choice, though not our
own. Such a Prefiaent',fo chosen, no't, nay,
would not, be considered as «iur Prefidijit.—but the
agent «f the French republic.
Americans, foreign imlueocc : look
to vuutfejves alone for fafety. Rely vvly «>n your
j>wi» (jooJ fen fie arjl yi.tße ; for>n iou of
these depend, at this crisis, your futuia welfare and
' J'- ,'V'.y- Decide between the of th« Pre
fidei)t,*rr3 the Mtniller ; and.if yoti roean-to follow
jiie paternal counfeis of Waflithgton, reje£t and de
test t*e plans of Adet, or rather ps the French
o' -flEory, whose aim it, to draw you fiott) a state
ok peace Ic neutrality, and fever the western from
the Atlantic /latet. Louisiana beisfc t heir's by
t trc3ty with Spain,' Frenchmen will not be'at ease,
rill the ealt fide of the MifGfip[»i- is brought under
""She fame authority. And if they ;£ucceed in nomi
' jiai inl and appointing yoijj chief magistrate, the
rt ft of their work will reqfutc but little skill—they
(Jwrrfe, and cam, 'and manage us they fancy,
and at . AMERICANUS.
ftR THE GAZETTE OF.THE UNITED STATES.
—
, Mr."Fsiw<\
How is it thai the Oazette of the
United States, nfo, seem to (hew the fame at
tentions the fedfera!, as fpme otjier papers do to a
contrary iotSreft f It is «ery rare„that any of the
latter defcriptiou of editors, fuffer any thing to be
•introduced into their ]3lu>&t's refleiting upon the cha
icitdsf mrt cithev uri |
1 yr want of information,-we sometimes fee in y»tir
and other friend® of fedeialifm, especial
ly if thejr live at a-didance, held up as enemies of
the government. Tftefe obfcrjaj.ioits have occurred
feirtsi the editor of the Federal Cazette having fpf
ftred to creep into his ajjai'nft
the character of Mr. Gilpin of iStf state of Msuy
fc'id, one of the Elefiors frtjr Pr-ltd; lit knd Vice•
Prelident of the United States, antici
pating for whom, Mr. Gilpin \v»)L*tir, yon'are
authorized to pronounce, bv a person wall acquaint
ed with him, and his refpeftitble/amity, "that tliey
hold in abhorrence the difirganiting lyftef* ; that
his father fuppoited the elfabliffiment of the -injji
tution under which we live /; that the son entertains
the fenlimentsof the father ; ami that it is rionitu
be presumed that he will vote for men who
counteract the happy order of tilings whish has pro
duced such unexampled prosperity, and which No
thing but the eollufien of internal enemies with ex
• V t'rnal falje friends would interrupt or bring info
• jeopardy, A lever of Gotd Fatfh.
Cecil county, Nov. 12.
— !' , '-"y •■■■»>■ •
LONDON', SrpteirfßeV 24.
DefiruSkn of the Amph'tan Frigate.
• A dreadful event happened on Thursday evening
to the Amphion of JZgur.i, capt. I. Pellew, in
Plymouth harbour. By Come accident not yet known
blew up, and the greater part of the crew
, petifhed.'
Saturday morning thirty of the unfortunate fuf
ferers <>n board llie Amphion frigate were buried in
the Royal Hospital burial-ground at Plymouth, in
ene large grave from East to Weft ; ii was* pite
ous and melancholy fighi 1 The bodies that wetc
owned were buried by their friends.
The Amphion at Plymouth From the
North Sea on Monday fe'nnight, and the day fol
lowing went up Hamoaze to refit. Wednelday she
went along-side the sheer-hulk, snd got out a defedt
jve bowsprit; and on Thursday moroing-a riew one
vas fixed in its (lead ; in this, together with over
hawling the tigging, &c..the officers and crew had
been employed great part of the day, and such wete
tne exei tions uied to get the ship ready for sea, that
it does not appear that moie than 18 of the sailors
were alhore or liberty. Tlvf captaia, hm fi*t lieu
tenant, and capt. Swaffitld, of the Overjifrl, of
64 guns, now in this harbour, had dined together
011 board the Amphion ; and whilst at table, at a
bout 4 o'clock in the afternoon, the captain was a<
larmed by a ludden shock, which his tipprehenfion
led him to fear was occasioned by gun powder, and
that moment communicating hie fears to those at the
tabic, requeued them with much earnestness inflant*
ly to follow him, and he forced himfelf through
the Amphion's quarter gallery to.get wtft she wa
tec, or reach lije hulk, the lieutenant followingclofe
at his heels ; but before they were clear of the ship,
the fore magazine blew up, and they presently found
themselves on the deck of the hulk, but how tbey
gotjtheie, ferns yet to be accounted for. Captain
Swaffield and the others were not so fortunate ; they
hare never been heard of liuofr! It is generally
supposed that they Were drowned, ajxd are now in
the cabitf, as it is expettedt ,tl»a: the after part of
the ilup may be entire, fiori the £re not having
reached tho after magazine,'bef«re the fhia funk.
The explufiotj yeas dreadful trtdeed 5 and flie me
- largely . are ftich as to beg.
1 gar all defcnptif>n. Every part of ihc snip forward,,
togeiVer with mafU, yards, fails, tic. &■:. were
ta a great, height in one
•jc'bnt was on the fote
pay , d/Mfa-dqck-. AW t£« p(?rloi: - fhat were ta
the wreck, alive
wt,e^biowp ( from tfieaftei part of+fie ship, were
tipoti* deck at the time of the explosion ;■ these may
1 amount' to between 20 and yj, uun nnd women.
JVut all thavsyere bebw the deck, went down in the
P>»y, Uefiffei rhe cnw, a great number ef people.
to Dock, such as wives ot'the sailors, wo
/r.cn oftific town, bumbkat people, and
or. j'nnrnjiig the latter deffription, was a veiy
a Mr. Spry, upholftcrer, and
h ' ft>n, bten with h» brother the
■ V
-• £fcfn-.rtcr*f Ole (hi;, ZT:$ were aH bJpw when she
• Munjl*. r 4 I Jjr'C'.'Zf » » -5* '
. Ihe exact nWaber »f lives 101 lon this melancho
' if occafiort cannot yet be afcerisined, but itisfua
t pofee to be from 203 to 25:0 people. The bodies
• of those that were picked up dead, presented a spec-
tacle too (hocking for ddcription ; ihcy were im
" mediately sewn np in hammocks, and conveyed to
*■ • t burying ground. Many were found on board the
d fhec-r hulk in a very mangled (fate ; and„fr> great
r was the force of the explosion, that 4of the twelve
r pomider »W were blown from the Amphion, and
, fell on the hulk's deck. The captain and hetite
e nat>} aie flightiy wounded. It never eanbe known
k by what means the accident as the petfon
I vho was the cause of it, together with all those that
f were near him, were in one inffii'ri? blovn to ato^s.
he irmains of the ship are under water,
the only thing vifiblc Fs rhe 2 mi7-n* mrtft.
rr C ' ,u s hauled off from her, and the ne
celfriiy -preparation i s making to wei>>h the wreck,
as .it lies quite ir> the Channel way, ahreaft of the
■ oc r-"y ard - " » singularity, remarka' le, that
: the fhccr-ihulk 10 which the Amphion was lashed,
1 ..as noi received the fmallrft injury, nor any per
son that vvason board her notwithltanding the guns
> Hid, fpyntersj &c. fell so thick oa board and a*
' bout htf.
_
[ Philadelphia,
FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 1795.
. Married, On the 19th ult. at Wilhamffcurg,, Vir
ginia, Samuel Gatloff, Esq. of this city, to Mist
. Griffin, only daughter of Samuel Griffin, Esq. of
" William fburgh, late Representative in Congretir for
that di^lriit.
' > "» Wednesday evening, by the Rev. Dr.
Andrews, Mr. SAMuet. Bfnn'F.tt, merchant, of this
e city, to MifsßuTH Dobsl, »f Bristol.
: \* In " The No. yXfl, publiihed
r refttriuv, second paragraph, Jjdjine, for convinced
read concerned., ' (
Extract of a Mter dated Cadiz, Sept. 26, to a
_ merchant mi this city.
t " Yesterday the SrifQ§h flee,t, composed of 18
(hips of ttie lino, 8 frigMes, and 2 corvettes,, left
_ this port. It is believed th««y are boui?d to Cai
thagena, with »n i' tention of forming a juntftion
| with the Toulon ilea*, in their way thither."
' r Extract of a letter dated New York, Nov. 22, to a
gtntkrpan here.
' " A gentleman of to )iij houfc
} here, from Mdaga, dated 12th fliat wai
"had btfen d;ol*red against England, and that the
f &#( on. 7 .fliips, had chafed admiral Mann
into Gibraltar,'suy! had taken two merchant veffcls '
that were his convoy, one loaded with sulphur,
acid the ouier with tick troojis \ from eveiy a'pp'ear
aace I btlieve it true."
' . —
Says a Car'ufpundent,
• iJt 's iy»t uncommon for njhirf t0 be the ,
mg. -It is very proa-bLc thatehp ligfaortlsndt nd
Fayette returns wee kept back til, icAsfcild be a[\
cCMaiaed vvhat-numbct was wanted to tufu the ma
jority—when a yoifcrnor and his secretary' are
I cided friends of a party, and a chkf jujiic, „ one 1
of he candidates—tne other fide could cxpeet no
other conclusion of this fca P bafifiefs than
that which has taken'place.
1 •
extract
■ From a late Preferment of, the Grand Jury of jef
terfoji county. Georgia. •
" Viewing the Stuatton of nations and kins-iloms,
. and contralting with it our oa-n, olir bofonn cm ne
. ver ctafe to glow with grawudc,and thar.kfulnefs to
. tne great Creator and Qovtrnor of worlds lor the
bleffmgs which he has so bountifully .poured aroimd U«.
When we review the pages of fuitcry, tracing the
progreU of governments, we truly feel the meftiraa
• l) e blessing we enjoy in our own; and under that
! biefliug, a reitJy «bedien Ee to tie laws, and a ftrid
. adherence to will mark our ffeps
We trust government will prove univerft tlfat
. there is such a. generous patriotism interwoven in the
mind of man, that liberty may be enjoyed in its fulleft
extent without a fear of licentioufutis ; and it (hall f> t
f cur conflant prayer that liberty's brigl.c f un iu th jj
our western hemisphere may never set. '
extract
, From the address of his excellency the Governor of
| ' Maryland to the Legislature.
! , Annapolis, Nov. 16th, 1706. ,
" Gentlemen, /
t IT is with peculiar fatisMion, that I avail mvfelf
of the opportunity of addressing you at a period wfcn
1 our country fee,;,, d,ll,ngu,(lied from all othw, By
• the bkinngs it enjoys. The condituti.n 01" our 2 cn*-
, ral go/ernmeut, by the tree conlent of the
I people, framed with a fixations attention to the ex
. cellcnaes ani deteas of all the considerable rovern
, merits, ancient and modern, and calculated to fccurt
, equal rights, and provide' for the fafety of all, hath
becoajerbore valued by th fc «amp of experience. At
peace with,d the world-cur.agricultu.e, com mere,
; wealt,, and population, mcrwfc* beyond any former
calculation—The prcduaions cf our foil are abun
; dant, and the laVge portion thereof diftined for ex
. »" rut,on > may even coremar,.! tail lyice •
• w r h ™ all ranks °' ei'-zens mty obtain profitable
and "lefol employment, and enjoy the fruits of their
mduilry in perfol {ecurity.
1 "I have realon, gcntleiv<», most fineerely to con!
• gratulate you on thu fortunate lituation of our affairs]
: n.t in contemplating this pfcafmg piaure, which 1
ha/e the honour to present tov yoni thf mjnd naturi |l ,
1y turrtwwith grati ude to that great Mtnot.fo whoif
, we indebted forj thi»"i,n S ul»r ftatc 4 '
profperity4-Almoa the only fubje& of regret in oui k
political situation is, a little timt our K re„i
and good Prcfi(ie»t h to retire from that ftatftn, il
which he has so lyng a(9ed w;th the of the
W.'% cna ' whi(:h »" *ood men will lament#-V
---. My we may ronlole ourfrlves with the ple-fi,-,- hop^,
• "thlt the jnftruaions which he has giv.cn and thai .
line ,of conduct which he sw S lef with lb much
labour, wildom and virtue, for the advantage and
prosperity of the United States, cannot he
but will be tuUy unue-flood, revered and L.ir&sd'-W
his iuccelfor. • • r •
" ■ »
I i (
e By AUTHORITY.
PENNSYLVANIA, Jf.
In tire name and by the authority of the common
wealth «f Pennfvlvania.
3 By THOMAS MIFFLIN,
Governor ef the fald commoniDtalth.
A PROCLAMATION.
0 WHEREAS it is provided, in and by an aft
e of the general afllmbly, entitled, " An aft direft
t ing the manner, time and places fotvholding elec
e tioiis for the eleftorsof a President and Vice Prefi
1 -dent of the United pafled the fourth day
- of April laß, that the gtoeinor having received the
i returns of the ele&ions fl>m the refpeftive pretho
i notaries of the several comities of this can - mon
t wealth, fliall enumerate and ascertain the number
. of votes for each and every person voted for, as the
, Electors o.f a Prefidrnt and Vice-President of the
. United States, and thereupon ceclare by proela
. mation the names of the persons so duly elected
, and chofcti | and also that he fliall notify the fame
- to the EletfWs on or before the last
t We Inefday in' November inrtant.
, And wheicas it appears by the returns which I
have at ting time actually received, (being all the
returns of the state, exept the return for the
• county of Gieene) that Thomas M'Kean, Jacob *
Morgan, Jamr» Boyd, Peter Muhlenberg, fofeph
• H<ilter, William M'Clay, James Hanna, John
- Whitehil!, William Irvine, Abraham Smith, John
Piper, John Smilie, William fiiown, Robert Cole
man and Samuel Miles, are the fifteen persons for -
wli»m (according to tlw returns received as afore- ]
said) the greatest mrmliei of votes was given at the
said cleftion held on Friday the fourth day of No
- vember inttant. NOW THEREFORE I have
• iflijea this, proclamation, heieby publishing and de
' daring, that the said Thomas M'Keto, Jacob
Morgan, James Boyd, Pet«r Muhlenberg, Joseph
HeMer, William M'Clay, James Hnnna, John J i
■ Whitehill, William Irvine, Abraham Smith, John 1
Piper, John Sfliilie, Wiiiiam Brown, Robert Cole*
, man and Samuel Miles, appear, according to the
I return, received as "as »refaid, to be elected a*id cho-
I fen.Eleftofs of a President and Vice-President of
thjr United States, to ferveat tne election, in that
behalf to be held, at the borough of Harrifburgh, '
in the county of Dauphin, on the firft Wednesday
in Decembar next, agreeably to the said aft of the
general aiTemMy of this commonwealth, and the
aft of conjrefg in such cafe made and provided.
Given nnder my hanj and the great seal of the
flat*, a* Philadelphia, the twenty-fourth day of
November, in the year of our Lord one thousand
leven hundred and ninety fix, and of the Common
wealth the tweniy-fitd.
-THOMAS MIfFLIN.
By .the governor,
A. J; DALLAS, **
becretary of the commonwealth.
1 M i . n
GAZtTTt OF .THE, T F.S MARINE LIST.
PHILADELPHIA, November ij.
Crfpiain Hnglut, of the fefig Experiment, left
« JaCQiK-mcl, Oa. 36, tUe, following veflel*: *
Sr
# Sihr. Angelina, Steward, Philadelphia.
\ / > Eagle, Bamberg,- Baltimore
jL 1 h .mas, l.mvtlier, ditto
f 1 GofTet, ditto
, ' ' Ni.mryd, Pharlin, ditjp
Sloop Polly, Defhonj/, ditto
Lat. 35. 4. I>r g. 19. the snow Diana,
Co»k,' ot Bolton, Iroin St. f Thomas. Mr, E.
Steward, my-rchaot of New-Yurk, who had taken
patTagr, died two days after they kfc the land.
03* The letfer ba<j of the ship Ceres, captain
WieJt*, for London, 'will be taken from tlje Poll.
to morrow the j*jth instant.
* *
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
BOSTON, November 17.
MASSACHUSETTS LEGISLATURE. -
Yesterday the legislature of this commonwealth
met at the State-hotife in this town. A quorum of
both houses bring formed, a joint committee was
appointed to wait on his exccllcnsy the governor,
and inform him that the legislature was ready to re
ceivc any communication he might think proper to
make.
His excellency appointed this day, at 11 o'clock,
to meet both houses in convention.
■"■■"pwlw—wt— —tmm——mam^
* (T The .MEMBERS
Of St. Andrews Society, *
, t0 att<?nf ' 'heir anniveriary meet : Bff
at Oelfer. s Hotel, on Wednesday next the 30th intt
Dinner to ken the table at a o'clock. The mem
• b«rs wd pleale apply for ticket, of admrffion to eith«r
of the tcl,o«'ing gentlemen, Mefrrs. Thomas
Le.per, Uwk.n, jun. Dr. Andrew Spence,
Robert Hendcrfon, James Henderfon, William h!
| Ul "r 1 Thc of th« locieiv
will please give their attendance ir one o'clock
. By order of the Society,
: Novembe* T7 , J ICHARD LA "> Sec'ry.
Just Arrived,
In the brips Twins and Kambler, % quantity of
Choice 61. Croix SUGAR and RUM, 1
and abo>j»
i 15 0 ' 000 height of Fine Green COFFEE.
i'or Sale ly
\<4„ , Jqmes Tard.
J November 14. j v 1
-** *4 1 n ,
d/For Sale by John JL Parry, i
J*, S. .S ecouJ ~/ar Uxkutftreft,
f exceUenjt GOLD WATCHES, -
: A F . U, 7r i? DoUar.,
And SILVER WATCHES ;
\ r var 'o« price*—all warranted.
mn tfiortmcnt of Chains, Seals, Kers and TrinUt
Up ;
GUflTes by. tut grot c.
]r oVfraWi; .
V
' /
%'• iff
I M.FO R T ED
Per the Jhip PenaJyhtarJn, aptain J eri, frcni
Bordeaux,
28 Pipe Cognac Bra»3y
60 Hoglheads Cl".ret
05a Cases ditto t ,'%
io Ditto Whit# Wine J
430 Ditto Sm p
1 198 Ditto.Rnflta Candles
88 Ditto Sivjiei Oil
Alio, pir the brig Bride front St. Thmat's,
43 Hoglheads Sugar <■'.*
9 Puncheons Rum
8 Bales Cotton
And per the schooner Mellona from dills,
40 Pnnehcons Rum
I Hogshead Sugar
For $a!e by
F. Ccppinger,
No. azi, S. from-ftr«t.
Who has
An Invoice of Irish Linens,
Imported per (hip Glasgow.
November 15.
For Sale,
A Handsome Saddle-Horfe.
Wanted to Hirfe, in a Private Family,
A Servant Man y
Who understands either Cookery or Waiting at TaVitf.
Enquire at No. 18a, Mulberry-itreet, or of the Printer.
November 24. *diw
For New-York, Newport and Provi
dence,
The rem#rbly fact failing
NEIY SLOOP, EAGLE,
Jfhn Earl, jun. mailer. » ,
Will take Ircight low,' and has elegant a"Commc<!»-
tions for passengers. Apply on board at Chdnut-feroot
wharf, or to
Joseph Anthony and Co.
Nov. 15. d 6..
THE CARGO
Of the Polacre Independent,
(Captain Cathcarr, from Alicant and Lisbon, landing
at the fubfcribeiV wharf—
58 Pipe 6 of Brandy
18 Baleo of Spanish wool
3 do. of Annifeed
For falo by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
Sept. 13. d
\Vaftiington -Lottery.
The 40th and 41ft days' drawing of the Washington
Lottery, No. t, are received at the office No. 134, Mar
ket-ftrect, where tickets may be examined. -
N. B. Iniormation given where tiokets in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
November 17, 1796. d
This Day Published,
By J. 0 R MR 0 D, No. 41, Uhefnut-flreet
(Prire to celts)
AUTHENTIC
OFFICIAL NOTES ,
From the Miniftcr of the French Republic to the
Secretary of «s*>''< of the fjnitfd Staler,
; r-WUb i to the firll Notej- -*-•
By the Secretary of State. ' '
Novitnber 13. ,§4
PROPOSALS,
By WILLIAM COBBETT, opuoUta Christ Church, Phi
ladelphia, for publiftung by fubferiptisa,
ADAMSES
Defence of the American Constitutions.
't . CONDITIONS :
I. The work {hall be printed on English page
for page, <%* t lie bed London Kditiofc.j ot course it
will be comprised in three large oflav» volumes.
11. For the three bound in boards, the price to
fubferibers is to keenly four dollar*, and to non-fuWcri
bers, five doUars'and a half.
111. The fubferipeion-(hall remain open for ten days, and
if an encouraging number of fubfci ibers are obtained in
that time, the publrihgr engages to have the work ready
for delivery in fix weeks from the present date.
ijth November,.l796. . 1
N. B. Subscriptions are t£ ken by the principal bookfcl
lurs of Philadelphia aud New York.
1 he ful icribejs to the Hiflory of Jacobinism are rcf
peflfully informed, that it will be .ready for delivery
1 early next week.
Nov. 16.
By Authority.
SchujMjll Bridge Lottery.
Soli by WILLIAM BIACKBURN, No. 64*
! South Saond-Jlreet.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
Tor ra'fH'g Sixty Thoiifaod Dollars, agrei ably to an AS of
the Legislature ©f Pennfylvaaia, passed during the last
fcnion, tor bu.ld.og a Stone Bridge over the Rivtr
Berks 41 B<ir " u e h o' Reading, in the County of
1 Prize of 20 000 Dollar, ,
1 do. of 10,004 do. • _
3 do. of 5 ,000 do. . . .
4 do. of a,OOO do. , . I' '
»o do. of 1,900 do. . * .
39 do. of 6 00 do. , .
. tkfc <to. of 200 do. , . 'S' i O3
1»ao do. of 100 do. . *
300 do. of 40 do. * " ao ' oc " x>
» do. 4>l 400 do. to be paid the posses-> Ij,o °' J
a r 1 t " c drawn uo. \
•5 do ' 3i*** do. to be paid polTeirorj >
s „„ d..
S. . 55
at. o • n. ,3°' 000 Tick «s at Ten Dollars «oo
JS'JT— } fifteen day, after the dralinV „
nnilhed, upon the demand of a ooffeflor n r •. r »
uckei; fubjeit to a deduction of twenty per cent' "'"The
3 Z l llZl "J°° n ,he Tlck «« are d.Vpo^d
P^:^7rv ( Wh^ h P Ubllc " oti « wUI be given.
m \ Willitm Witman,
, ; ' J" mes L)iem*r, Thomas Dundas,
James May, John Otto, John K.im, Daniel CraeJ,
&ehajltan Mtlltr, Cpmmissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, » 7 q6.
Fickets in the Canal Lottery No Itn v» l.j 1
r 7. ,
%A Sho"t Delay
In the Drawing cj the Canal Lottery,
|Ib Walhington city, has been unavoidably occafioHed
by the unforeseen intervention of Mr. Blodgct's Lottery
—but as the major part *f the tickets are now disposed
of, this is to inform the public that the drawing of the Ca
nal Lottery will certainly commence without fail, on the
firft Monday in January J797, and those holding tickcts,
ue hereby requefled to fend a statement of those fold, and
those on bane. 2
HOTLY YOUNG,
DANIEL C AP.ROLL, of Duddington,
GEORGE WALKiiR,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY,
W. M. DJJNCANSON.
The Printers who gave our adyertifements a place in
their newspapers, are rcquefted to give this notice admis
sion, as the remaining tickets are expe&ed to be loon above
par, and we wifii adventurers to be timely' iclotmed
Nov. iz. j§|6w.
TOB E SOLD, "
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Gloucester, and ftateof New-Jersey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty aeres ; a Suitable propor
tion of which is woodland an 4 improved meadow. A
great part of the arable Und is in a high state of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover.
On said plantation there isa-genteel two-story brick house,
wrth four rooms on a floor, and a good dry ccllaj under
the whole ; together with a bam, corn-cribs and carriage
houfe I'he garden is large, and cotitains a good collec
tion of the bed kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees;
the orchard confift»of about three hundred grafted apple
trees. Any person iaclined to purchal'e said premiles, may
be informed ef the terms by applying to
/ ANDREW HUNTER.
July..*9 F
Philadelphia, November 18, 1796.
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
fll-GH-STREET, ,
Has received ,by the late arrivals,
A Well Sdefied Assout ME NT of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, w'holefale and retail, on the very
low eft trrms ;
Amongjl <wbich are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottoas, new
patterns
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tambouted, Book, and Jaconet Muflini
Ditt# in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the fir ft: quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrella*, of the firft quality, aflorted
Irish Linens, very fine, add Table LinAis
Marfeillet and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets alTorted—&c. &C.
I Oitobei* 26. d
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almost new,
en an entirely original confttuttion, and built of the best
materials, acid may be set to work immediately. Persona
whowilhto pure ha fe, are requested to apply at No 273,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f tt
To be Sold, j
The Time of a smart, aSive Negro Lad,
Who has Eleven years to frtve.
Inquire at No. 58, South Front street.
Oflober 18. §
James Mufgrave,
GOLDSMITH JEWELLER,
Ne. 42, south Second-flreet,
HAS just received an affertment of Plated Ware
and Jewellery, Plated Tea and Coffee Urns, Coffee
Pots, Tea ditto, Castors from j to 8 bottles, Sugar and
Cream Basons, Bottle Stands, Balkets, high Candleftics,
Brackets and Chamber ditto, Branches, Sconces, a varietv
of Silver and Plated Shoe La'chets, Spars, lS"c. life, war
ranted of the best plate; Ladies and Genilemens Gold
Watch Chains, Seal? and Keys ; Necklaces, Neck Chains,
Eear Rings, Finger Rings, Lockcts, Brcaft Pins, Stone
Knse-Buckles, with ninny other a, tides in the above
branthes.
He has likewise received an extensive iflcrtmentof
japann d tea and'coffee Urns, perfun, blue, brown,
black and gold.
All kinds of work inthe gold and Giver line; minia
tures set, and hair work executed as usual.
November 9. tu th & f
The Elephant
IS RETURNED EROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpeflfully informed, that
this animal is tp be leeii every day, from 8
o'clock in the morning till fun down, Market
ftreet, No. ie6, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-ftreeti.
Admit tance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee him.
(C)- At the request of many perfens it will be
exhibited on evenings from five to eight o'clock,
at half a dollar each.—The room will be well
light? 4
November 7. <J
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RAN AW AY fr/»m the fubferiber on the 23d October,
a Dark MULATTO BOY, named MOSES ; 11 years
•Id } about J feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixed green
coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
a striped v«(l; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
-whole boots mach Worn. It is probable he may change
hi* tiame and drtfi. He has'beeu accustomed to driving
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be
for fccuring Kim so that the fubferiter may get him
again, and if -brought home ail reasonable charges paid by
Robins Chamberlaine.
Barton, Maryland, Nov. ro. 14 < Jmiawtf
Just Imported,
the fchoouer Lucy, Capt. Prows, from Madeira,
and to be fold by
ELLISTONZsf JOHN PEROT,
Best London particular Madeira Wine,
Three years old,
In pipes, hogiheads, and quarter cafkt, fit for im
mediate ufew—They have alio for sale,
A few of Juniper Berries.
O&ober 28. wjUlw
■ ——Z
Horses taken in,
For the Winter Sfafon,
, And fed on clfiver hay at the Subscribers place, i»
ciilcs on the Bristol Road, where good Cabling is pro
vided, and great cue will be taken of them
William Bell.
N«r. aj. mwfawmthtf.
"Juji Imported from London U Liverpool,
ttiRTHtN VVari, in crates and bogfheaiit, well '
alTorted
Wine Bottles in hampers '
Window Glass of all lizei
Two cases of stationary
One chelt of yellow Jesuits Bark
Two cases of Roll Arnctta
A finall consignment of Rose Blankets, Flannels, Bai
zes, Broad-cloths, Coatings, Plain*, &c.
Paints of various colors
Basket silt in hogiheads.
Alf 6 on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hogiheads and
quarter calks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality
Anchors of different sizes
A few trunks of ladies French shoes aflorted
Silk nankeen, &c.
Likewise an assortment of Dutch goods, eonfiftinjj ot
tickieabergs, bed-tick, stripes, checks
Morlaix linen, plattilas, ravens duck, Britannias, &c*
And for sale by the package only, by
Thomas Ss 5 yshn Ketland,
Waluut-flrret wharf.
Nov. 15. eodtf
v - 1 ~ 1
Samuel Richardet
n ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CHTY •
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the 5
city of Philadelphia; ]
The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the 1
j daily pipers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- 1
ton„Biltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will be r«gularly filed 1
and none permitted to be taken away on any account. 1
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety 1
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will it all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with
the choicefl of Wines, Spirituou# Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will be supplied with the prime and aarlieft
produ&ions of the Season.
Large and small parties, or single Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours most convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is
tegulafly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare t* be had
at the bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
Samuel Richabdzt will behappy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favqurs, he'pledges
himfqlf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pre
"erv- that patronage with which he has been so diftinguilh
ingly fionored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
TO BE SOLD,
A LEASE for years, from the 2 $tb Mareb next, in that
capital and beautiful FARM* called
PROS PE G T-H ILL, [
Situated within one quarter of t niife from the Brandy wine
s Mills, and halt a mile from the borough of Wilmington. |
, ""THE dwelling house is, built of done, two stories high,
1 genteely fimfhed, and contains four handsome rooms on
I a floor, besides an entry, with capital garrets, and convenient
, cellars It is generally thougkt to command the most »- *
greeable profpeft of the Delaware, from the fouice of that
rivet to the Capes. This profped ia greatly etnbcllilhed by,
a full view of a va(l body of meadow, through which the*
Christiana and Brandy wine creeks are ieen winding in beau
i titul meanders. Near the house are a Kitchen, a spacious
(lone liable and hayloft, a barn, a carriage house, rnilk
houfe, &c. and a well of as pure water as any on the conti- I
ncnt. The garden contains an acre and quarter al land, •- f
bounding with fruit, and particularly with peach trees, of t
the very best kind, brought from Maryland, and in full bear- a
ing. There is, moreover, on the place, a young, „
orchard beginipg to bear, and teveral old trees that produce ,
abundantly, be fid ts cherry and other ornamental treejJ ill ;
! great numbers. The farm consists of near sixty acres of land, r
of gbod quality, and clear of incumbrances, except taxes;
I twenty of which are now in excellent clover and timothy, ,
, and ten more will be ready for lowing r.exl spring. A re- !
fidence ot uearly 8 years has convinced the fubferiber that
the situation is remarkably healthy. The great post road c
[ from Philadelphia to the Southward runs within feveoty 1
J yards of the house. In a word, the beauties and eonveni- c
ence of this situation cannot be enumerated in au advertise- c
ment, and when examiued. will probably command the at
tention of any person who isdefirous of living at one of the
most elegant country feats on the continent. The purehefer
may enter on the premifts next spring, or peihaps, this fall,
if application be immediately made to Dottor NICHOLAS i
WAY, in Philadelphia, to Doctor WHARTON, on the
prenufes, or, in his absence, to Mr, CEORGE TRUITT, in
Wilmington,
A quantity.of excellent Hay, Grain in the ground some
Stock, &c. may be had by the purchaser at the time of (ale.
Nov. 7 , eodtf J
James M'Alpin, Taylor,
No. 3, South FourthJirtetj
RETURNS his grateful acknowledgments to his 1
' Friends and the Public for th«ir liberal encouragement, 1
and begs leave to solicit a continuance of th«ir favors. 8
He has on hand an extensive assortment of the *
Most Fajhicnable GOODS, \
• And of the best quality, fnitable for the season.
( At this lhop Gentlemen can be furnifhed withthe best
| materials, and have them made up in the neatest and most ,
Fashionable manner, and on the shortest notice. He will
thankfully receive any orders, and pay a prompt and
punctual attention, to them.
November 10. ws
A few Pipes of WINE,
5 Imported in the brig FAME, from Madeira, to be fold
! by MORDECAI LEW 13,
Who has also to Wifpoie of on reasonable terms, (
IKISHLLvENS, well aflorted I
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS 1
; WIDE NANKEENS ,
, COSSAS AND BAFTAS
RAVENS DUCK t
DIAPERS ;
QUICK SILVER «
CHINA
ROLL BRIMSTONE, &c.
| Ober tj. tawim
Davis's Law Book Store, ,
GNo. 313, HIGH-STREET, 1
EORGE DAVIS aonouuccs to his protelTional friend t,, a
and the Gentlemen of the Law generally thro* the
- Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arrang
ed, and ready for Sale, from a ftngle volume to an entire li
brary, without any advance upon his former exceeding low
priefs, which for fcveral years past have in Jo diftinguiftjed a
manner recommended them to notice. '
Printed Caiaiogues combining the most extensive colfcc
tion cf the latest Englilh and Irirta Editions ever imported <
into this country, are publifccd, and will be delivered giatis <
on application.
1 Orders addressed to G. D. in writing from any diftacce
- (hali be pun&ually attended to*
A number of IRUNKS for Sale. 1
ALSO, TO BE LET, 1
A convenient LOFT, near Market Street Wbarf.
Nov. 8. tu&fjn
PATENT SHOT.
THE general confuniptiow of Patent Shot having been
prevented by the high price it has hitherto been fold
at, the Proprietors take this method ot informing the
Public that they may in future be supplied with that arti
cle at the fame prices as common Shot, by ordering their
Correfponpents to apply to Walkers, Maltbt & Co.
1-ondon. Nov. 9 wfni4\v
FOR SALE,
About i,600 acres of Land,
WELL situated, laying 011 and between Marlh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four feparatc Patents. For terms ol sale apply to
Wm. Blackburn,
No. 64, South
Oflober 31. mwftf
RAN AW A T,
t About the tft of Oitober last, from the plantation of
Mr. Thoacas F. Brooke, (in Prince Seorge's county) to
whom he was hired, a NEGRO MAN, named C.SSSAR;
33 years of age ; about 5 feet Bor 9 inches high; well
made ;of a yellowilh complexion; a little pockmarked:
has, when spoken to, rather a down lock, and submissive
tone of voice: the clothes he had before he abfeonded
„ were of plain, such as labouring Nc<roes ufuaily wear,
but these he may probably exchauge for others : he will
doubtless endeavour to pass for a freeman, having, as I
) have been informed, aflumed the name of Cutler : I have
' rrufon to believe that he went to Baltimore, from whence
; he is said to have gone to some part of the Sufqu,ehannah,
probably with a view of gttting to Pennsylvania. A
; reward of Thirty Dollars will be given to the person who
. may take him and so secure him in fomei jail that I may
. get him again, if taken in this state, and Fifty dollars if
1 taken out of the state, an dif brought home or fecu red in
the jail of Prince George's county all reasonable charge*
r will be paid by ALEXR. COVINGTON.
> Maryland, Prince George's County, ")
2nd November, 1796. j I Ith*t&f4W
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
" TOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re
1N ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Trcafury
: until the expiration of the firft day of next en
suing, for the supply of all rations which may he required
J for the use of ihe United States, from the Uril day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the place 6 and within the diftricls here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
Paefque Me; at Sandulky Lake, and on Sandulky
River ; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Franfc
| lin; at Pictfburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ;
■ at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon; at Grenville; at
5 Picque Town and Loramics Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place balow Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Foyt
Steuben ; at Fort Maflac ; at any place from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
Miflifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon!
If supplies lhall be required lor any poftsor places not
t mentioned in this notice, all such supplies shall be fur
nilhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
1 One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
1 One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whilkey.
| One quart and half a pint of falt.~\
Two quarts of Vinegar, ( , . ,
Two pounds of So»|, (P" tuadred " t,on>
, One pound of Candles, J
Tte rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities, as that
there shall at all times during the said term, be fufficienH
for the consumption oi the croup* at Michilimackinac,~D£*
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
advance, and at each of the other polls, for the term of
; at lead three months in advance, is good aad wholesome
provilions,if the fame Hull be required. It is to be un
' derllood, that the Contradlor is to be at the exjente and
; rifle of iffuirg the supplies to the troops at each poll, and
' that all lofTes sustained by the depredations of as enemy, or
[ by means of the troops of the United States, lhall be paid
for at the price of the articles captured or dellroyed, on
I the depofitiof\s of two or more persons of creditable cha
, rafters, and the certificate of a commiffioncd officer, as
. certaining the circumllances of the loss, and the amount
of the aiticles for which compensation lhall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
Loft Last Evening,
, At Ricketts's Amphitheatre-, (supposed to be taken by
r some villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
1 A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes
of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 30-1, 305 and 306, da
ted nth I all Augull, payable 60 dafs after date, to the
order of Paul Siemea, together for 5150 dollars; an ordar
of Mrs. Ann iVacpherion, from Paul Siemen, on Lach
lin Mac Neal, Esq. at Port-au-Prince, for 100 dollars; be-
Gde» several letters and papers of no ule but to the proprie
, tor. The notes of hand and ordtr are without endorfe
> n»ant_. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to
any person who will diicuvcr and secure the thief, and
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
oned notes and papers at No. 119, cornet of Front and
Mulberry llreets. d OS. jr.
An elegant Bay Horse for sale,
j Enquire at George Green's Stables, in Pine-flreet,
between Fourth and Fil'th-ftreets.
Nov. 18. j iw
THE STOCKHOLDERS
Of the Bank of the United States
Are hereby informed,
THAT, according to the Statute of incorporation, a
General Ele&ion for Twenty-Five Directors will be
held at the Bank of the United States, in the City of
Philadelphia, on Monday the second day oi January
next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And, pursuant to the eleventh feftien of the Bye Laws,
the Stockholders of the said Bank are herehy notified to
assemble a General Meeting, at the fame place, on Tues
day the third day of January next, at fivs o'clock in the
evening.
By order of the Board of Directors.
G. SIMPSON, Cafluer.
and Fundamental Article.
Not more than three fourths of the DireSors in office
exclusive of the President, Iball be eligible for the next
succeeding year, but the Director who shall be President
>' at the time of an eleAion may always be re-ele&ed.
; ; eftel.
Mr. FRANCIS,
| (0f the New Theatre) .
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to his
scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
1 on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
> dhny for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters bimfelf that his attention to his pupili bi
: therto renders any promises of oondufliiig his luture
Ichemes on the molt liberal and firiifiefi tenris, of pro
priety, totally unneceflary.
A". B. Private tuition as uiVal.
• June 3 x*
V
Paterfon Lottery.
n raising fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
& -L dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen * ,
centfrom the prizes, and not two blanks toa prize, viz
I friacof 5000 dollars is dollars r~~ O
' r 1 1000 loco
' S°° joo
5 ao ° loco
*? lo ° ICOD
99 jo 4WO
403 jo'oo
j> 2CC ° „ , 10 40,CC0
n 5 Lalt drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, jo do
13 3 1 Prizes. 4 ~
4018 Blanks.
$35° Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,'t0
By ordsr of the Dircdors of the Society for eftab'ii'ij
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperintendants of the ?lt.
if erfon Lottery hive requested the Managers to offer the
0 foregoing Ssheme to the public, and have dire&ed them
; to refund the money to thufe persons who have piireh..i:d
11 in the former Lottery,- of exchange the tickets for ticLts
: n this Lottery.
e The lottery has dually commenced drawing, and will
d continue until finifhe J. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
•, may be seen at the office ol William Blaelfburn, No. 64
11 south Second ftraet, who will give information where tick
-1 ets may bl procured'/
e Dated this 17th day t>f June, 1796.
e J. N- GUMMING, ~)
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, V Managers.
• JONATHAN RHEA, )
v STATE OF THE WHEEL.
t 1 Prize of 5000 - - . JOOO
Li I 1000 - - - 1000
* 1 5C o ... 500
5 200 - - - loco
20 ICO - - - - 2000
9° JO 45 00
I °S 2J - - 4U 5
The five last drawn tickets 1000 e-ch, 5090
Being all the valuable prizes, besides a full propor
. tion of the 10 dollars.
y As the Lottery is coafiderably more than one third
- drawn, the value of the undrawn tickets is great
-1 ly increased, and it is worth the notice of those
f who hold tickets in thaold A heme, that they can ex
change their tickets for those in the above,"if they ap
ly loon, and at a moderate advance considering the
now real value of an undrawn ticket.
The tickets being nearly all fold, the drawing in
future will be ofteiwr, and the Lottery soon finished.
November i». mws
Imported in the late arrivals, s
And to be Sold by
JACOB PARKE,
No. 49, North fide of High-ftrect, Philadelphia,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c.
AMOKGST WHICH ARE
, SMITHS' Anvils, Vices, and Files; Saw-mill, Cross
cut, Hand, and other Saws; Carpenters' l'lanes, Chisels,
. and other Tools; Carving Chisels and Otnigcs; Locks,
Hinges, Bolts and Latches; Nails, Sprigs, lacks, and
Screws; Frying-Pacs; Smoothing-irons; Shovels and
f Tongs; Coffee Mills; Candleftifks; Snuffers; Warming-
Pans ; Table Knives and Forks; Riding Whips; Bar
low Pan, and other Pocket Knives; Rrzors: :sciffar*;
Needles; Ivory and Horn Combs; lieil Kirby Fifti
Hooks; br&fs Cabinet Furniture; Waggon Boxes ;'' Shcit
* Brdafs; pfeted and tin'd Bridle Bits and Stirrups; it to
Sa die Nails; Girth and Straining Webus ; —witft moil
. kinds of Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, Brass Wares,
. &c. &c.
t —-OSlobu .44'. "Tnvrtßw
1 ' "
[ Sales of India Goods.
. The Cargo of thefhip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Ca>
| cutta and Bengal,
I CONSISTING OF
A Large and genera! assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and Sli.K GOODS.
, AMONG WHICH ARE
■ A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins,
Doreas, t3V. A Iso,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, j
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings fcf £ranpis,
. No. 11 Penn Street.
June 2 §
WANTED,
! As Cook, in a private family,
1 A YOUNG WOMAN who can produce good re
commendations of an unexceptionable character. En
• quire of the Printer.
November 17.
; Walhington Canal Lottery,
i N°. i
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifei
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, froxi th Po
tomac to the Eastern Bnu'ch Haruour.
, The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Vis -I Prize of 10,000 dollars, 10,000
1 ditto J 0,000 ic.cco
7 last drawn 7
Tickets, each J s '°°° 35f?0
6 ditto 1,000 6.
10 ditto 400 4,003
ao ditto Ico -
JJ ditto 50
. 5750 ditto 11 60,008
p To be ralfed for the Canal, 16,150
| ■ 1
5850 Prizes, 175,000
( 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
1 —
17 joo Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175000
& The Commiflioners hava taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a<ft for the punctual payment of
tne prizes. r ' -
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, withe at
delay, as soon as the Tickets are foid, of which timely
, notice will be given. r
: Such prize, ss are not demanded in fixmonths after th.
1 fi , n '^ be ""fibred as relinouilhedM
the benefit of the Canal, 2n d appropriated
(Signed J NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, c/D.
LEWIS OEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
s Wm. M. DUNCANSON,
, THOMAS LAW.
JAMES BARRY"
» City of Wafhirgtoß, Feb. n.
■ PRINTED BY JOJJN F ITNNO,
115 —
CH F S N V T-S TRKET.
[Price Fight Dollars per