* .
#ajette oj the i&ttitetj States, Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
1235.] WEDNESDAY EVENING' AUGUST 24, J7 9 6._ pWAfg X.
- ... 1 ■ '■ ■ ■ ...I. ■■■ — . ■ ■■ - - —— _ . * . ~ 1 x■» "r* -t i nTth 1 • tti' 1
'The brig Mary
S®4 FOR SALE,
AND may be fe<rn at Abiah and William
t jr»aiY«wMii'i * Brown's wharf. She is about 800 barrels
burthen, strong built, and well but-bolted, has elegant
accommodations, is a good sailer, only 10 months
and may be sent 1* f«a ioi.me JiaWly. Apply to
,w«C,. James. Brown,
No. Jip South Secand-ftreet.
Who has for sale, a few puncheons high proof
Jamaica Spirits.
AND A FEW BARRELS SHAD.
Aug. 13 11$ 10
UNITED STATES, . ? Sctm
PzNNsrirANiA District, 3
iN pursuance of a Writ to me dire&ed from the Honour
able Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the Diftnd
Court of the United States for the Pennsylvania Diftria,
Will be expoftd to Public Sale,
At the Merchants'Cofiee-Houfe, in the Citjr of Philadel
phia. on Monday, the 19th day of August, instant, at 11
o'clock at noon, • .
It "***— The SLOOP called the
$Rebecca,
W'th all and singular her tackle, appa
rel : f.d Furniture, as the fame now are ; the faicl sloop
having beer. condemned, to pay Mariners' wages, &c.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marlhal.
Marshal's Office, 19th August, 1796.
, For Sale or Charter,
BOSTON,
BURTHEN about 2000 Bbls. of flour—!he may be sent
to lea at a small expence, her fails and rigging being in
«ry good order—apply to
'James Campbell, or
Geerge Latimer.
April »9, . §_
This Day commenced Landing,
At A ifßins wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop
St. J ago, from St. Jago de Cuba—confining of
White and Brown Box SUGAR.
MOLASSES, of an excellent quality.
COFFEE.
HIDES and HONEY. Also,
For Sale or Charter.
A Ilout, strong veflel, will carry a
bout I aoO barrels, and may go to
faa with a very small expense.
The above Will be fold for ca(h or approved notes.
Saiyuel Entry,
No. 64, south SecMid-ftreet-
July a>, 1796. . dtf.
For Sale,
Or for Charter to the Weft-Indies,
c;U si s,
Philadelphia Built,
F Live Oak and Red Ccd'ar, burthen ab«ut 3500 bar-
Kj rels, now discharging at Latimer's I his ves
sel is in excellent repair, well fouud and will bear a tho
rough examination, and as soon as discharged will be jea
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to
John Vaughafi.
July ii L
At South-street jvharf,
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inil. fugufl,
by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and sloop Sally,
from Port-au-Prince.
300 Hhds. COFFEE,
70 Hhds. SUGAR.
Also, the cargo of the Sivedi/h brig Guflaf Adolphe,
capt. Ramfre, from Gibraltar,
rft and -ifh proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
Hazle Nuts in lacks
St. Übes SALT, fer sale by
PETER BLIGHT.
RarJChartei',
The said brig
} Gdstaf Adolphe,
f? [ A Swede, with a Mediterranean
3 a very fine vessel, about 200 ton= bur
then. Aug. >8. oawcHw
For Sale, _
Friendship,
"DURTHF.N 300 Barrels or 1400
Yj bushels Coil!, an excellent frame,
Lire Oak and Cedar, and well fourtfl with cables, anchors
&c. fit for fea—aow lying at Almond-street wharf, Tho
mas Pcnrofe's. The terms will be made reafcnable.
Apply to the Owner, No. ill south Front-street, next
to Jo»atht»» Penrofe, El<}. Au g-19 S e P4
To be fold,
On Twelve Months Credit,
}{ applied for immediately,
One Hundred Thousand Dollars,
And oije hundred and eighty thousand acres of good
LAND,
In theftateof Virginia. AppJ} to the Printer.
a-u;. 19 ■ 5
FOR SALE,
A Complete Font of Brevier,
E'Ntirelv new, and yet unopened. The weight of this
j foijt is about * s * rom *he Foundery of
Witfon Si Sons, Glai'gow, and will be fold at cost & charges.
Alio for Sale, a ;>air of Super Royal Chafes.
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of ths United
States. 1»9 chefout-ftreet. A-ug 19 §4 W
Cables,
From f6 to 9 £ inchca, for sale by
Jeremiah Warder,
Tuly »i § No ti north Thii'd-llreet.
A Book-Keeper,
/~\F. Clerk\ place is wanted properly quali
fi,H, and .vhofe charafler will be found unexception
Apph' to the Printer.
■tog.ii' If
Win. HO-LDERNESSE, , n
No. 76 High Street,
m T TAS reteived, by the latest arrivals from Europe 111' d
j s n tile East Indies, a well feleiSed assortment of Silk
, lt Mercery, I.irjen Drapery and Hubcrd»(hery Goods ; which
j lie will fell, Wliolefale artd Retail, on thelowell t(Cnri» 5
AMONGST W«XCH ARC, £
Some finp lndif.muflif.s «nwi-<ide»cdwith (Wver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and Mulmul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
«ome extra black taffeties,lut«fl;ringsaHd colored Persians
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long and short Nitikirens
English Mantuas of the firft quality
Damask table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hoficry, an elegant assortment
Theaa and cotton 4"
Umbrellas—green silk, oij'd do. and do doth
French cambrics, very fine ' ,
r- Jrift Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 $
a, For Sale,
A Three ftofy BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second streets, in which
j 2 Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many yep s (and
now do) carried on business.
PcjTeffion will be given in one month, or fooncr.
l ; or terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, orl
HECTOR CALBRAITH. g
April »l, 5 k,
»p FOR SALE, S
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, F
in pipes and hogflieads
Claret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, in hogsheads
Shot, No». 6, 7, I a»5 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
nt Steel, German and Russia, in barrels
j n Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tjfpolin canvas,
Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by
TIIOM AS & JOHN KETLAND.
July 19 ' $■-
ELEPHANT.
This Animal it to be seen in High-Street, between
the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street. F)
B P TTE will positively leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep
-11 tetr.oer, for Ba!tim»re, In his way to Charlellon,
where he will win'er.
ADMITTANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a foliar D
for Children. ol
The PANORAMA, or the VIEW of the CITIES of C
I.QNDON and WESTMINSTER, ol
Is t« be <$pen till the 10th of September, and the sub- p
jeA will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE- j*
a * PHANT.
» ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA,
One quarter ps a Dollar.
August 3. 1 ti
To be fold by public sale, u
ON Wednesday, the 7th day of September next, on 11
the premises in Mount-Hollv. Burlington county, by J1
vOt DweUing-Houfe and Lot
Whereon it stands, havingUeen in part occupicd as a store
for several yea*s past, and in a g6od stand for Uufipeft, to
gether with the store-house, stable and buildings thereon
crefled, having two large cellars under them. Also, the '
ar- shop goods and h«ileho|d furtiiture. A c ' caT w "'
ef- given to the purchaser dn payment of the money or fof
■lo- fident bond therefor, and possession of the premises will
ea- be given in the said month of September.
The sale is to continue 'till the whole is dlfpofed of. I
Mwunt Holly having become Vhe County Town, makes v
this property mere valuable than heretofore. The condi-
L tions willbe made known at the time and place of &!e, by -
PETER SHIRAS. 1
N. B. All persons indebted to thefubfctiber.aretequeft
11ft, ed to discharge the fame immediately, as he intends soon .
lly, to remove out of this state. Anyperfenhavinga just.de {
mand againtt the fubferiber, is requested to produce the
fame for settlement.
Mount Holly, August 16, 1796. * a
he, WANTED, (
An APPRENTICE to the Printing Bu/inefs. |
Enquire at this Office. Aug. 19
Wants Employment,
IN a genteel family, resident ift town or country, a
F.jpnch lady lately arrived in this city. She has re
ceived a good education and can be well recommend
ed. She wilhes to undertake the tuition of children,
ass, and will teach tKem to read, write, and speak the ,
iur- Frertch language, in a short time, by principles fitnple,
if but very intelligible. She will also inftruA them in
history, mythojogie, &c. and will b« careful in paying ,
ftriift attention to their morals ; her terms will be very (
moderate. Apply at No. 15, Lombard-Street, Phik- ,
ladelphia.
August 20. rot d. .
400 ,
iors Elephant. j
ho- r TP'HE Public is informed that this animal will leave Phi- |
A ladelphia on the FIRST of September instead of the j
,txt 10th, 'till which time the Proprietor will continue to ex- ,
4 hibit him as usual, in High-street near Tenth-ftrcet. j
" Aug. 22 3 1
Geoilge Dobsom,
BEGS leave to inform the Store-Keepers' in Town and
Country, that he has removed from Market-Street to j (
i' N°* 25, south Third-street,
where he is opening a Large and £legant Ailbrtment of the 1
undermentioned article*—viz.
Superfine London Cloth* and Kerfeymcret,
. Yorkshire second Do. Do. j
Elastic do. do.
Mix'd and Blue Coatings
Flannells,&c. 4
. . Manchefler Printed Callicoes,
C London Chintz ditto,
° Blue and ditto Furnitures, *
India ditto,
Long Cloths, CofTacs, Baftas, Conjevrems,
4*4 9"8 5"4 & 6*4 Superfine India Bo«k Mufiini,
f 4-4 and q-8 India Book. Handkerchiefs,
4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 &6-4 plain do. Muslins,
4-4 & 6-4. BritiOi Jaconets,
6-4 Britilh Checks and Stripes,
4-4 India do. do. do.
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, Sec.
— A large afTottment of figur'd and plain Muflinets,
Quiltings. Dimities, and Striped Nankeeus,
Fancy Waiftcoatings,
Ginghams of the firft Quality, fubjeft t- Drawback,
on I ndia Nankeens,
Men's White and coloured Silk (lockings.
f May 9
J lift Arrived,
In the SnoV Boston, James Kirkpatrick, maftet from Li- ,
verpool,
" 5006 Bnfbels SALT^
15 100 Crates QUfiENS WARP ; and
k An Afiortnient of SHIP CHANDLERY;
f 0 K SALE
On board, at Pine-street wharf. rApply 10
* James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
1S April 49. j
Landing,
From ott board ihc Schooner Expedition^
St. Croix R.Um&sugar,
For Sale by F. COPPINGER,
Aug. 11 ■ £ 221 South Frent-ftteet.
dutyT)n carriages.
<
£ Notice is hereby Given, !
3 HPHAT agre«|2t>ly to an a'ft of Congress oi the United
X States of America, passed at Philadelphia, the ißth day
of May, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey
ance of period's, and repealing the former alls for that pur
pose.—Thai there shall be levied, collefled and paid, upon
all carriages for the convcyance of perfpns, which (hall be
kept by or for any person, for his or her own use, or to let
out to hire, or for the conveying of palTcngets, the several du
ties and rates following, to wit.
I For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
upon every Chariot, t2 dols.
upornesrery Poll Chariot, i« dolt<
upon every Port Chaise, 12 dols.
upon every Phaeton, with or without top, 9 dols
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
Upon oth :r Carriages, having panne I Work, above*
glaffcs or curtains, 9 dols.
upop four wheel carriages, having framed posts and
top! with steel springs, 6 dols.
3 upon Four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron (
springs or jacks, 3 dols. '
upoA curricles with tops, 3 dohi
upon chaiies with tops, 3 dols.
upon chtirs with tops, 3 dols.
upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols,
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dot's.
lf . upbn two wheel carriage*, with steel or iron springs,
3 dols.
For and upon all other two wheel &rriages, 2 dols.
upon cveryfour wheel carriage, having framed pofls
and tops, and rcltiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
The Colle&ors of the Revenue of tV>e 6r{t survey 'ofthe
if Diftrift of Pennsylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day
of September next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on"
)f Carriages, at No. 117, io Race or SafTafrai street, in the City
of Philadelphia, at the houfc of Daniel Clair, F.fq in the
3- County of Montgomery ; and at the houU' of Abraham Du
bois* Esq. in the County of Bucks y of whiih all person* pof
itlifd ot luch Carriages arc defued to take notiee.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, agd foreign difKHed spiri
tuous liquors,that licences will be granted to them ; one li
cence for carrying on the business of retailir\g of Wines, in a
less quantity, or in less quantities than 30 gallons—and one
)n licence for carrying on the business of retailing Spirituous li
jy quors in quantities than 20 gallons, at the fame time and
—— jti 4<an-.ir. ieg»My t^graUt
sock liccnccs.
- WILII AM NICHOLS,
re Infpe&or of the Revenue of the firft survey
o- of the dillri&of Pennsylvania.
3ii Office of InfpeOion, at ) 30
he Philadelphia, 21ft July*. 1796. )
TAKE NOTICE,
ill ' "P'HAT application will be made for the renewal of
-L the following certiricates, iflTueJby Joseph Nonrfe,
jf. Regifttr of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Gril
;es wold, Esq. of Norwich, Conneilicut—
li- ,i certificate, fix percent domestic stock, No. 13,907
by —dated th; 147thDecember," 1795, bearing intcreft from
the firil day of January, ,1791, for 1,597 65.100 dol
ft- I ditto, thres per cent, domestic stock, No. io,6Sa
DD —dated December 16, 1795, bearing intcreft from the
firft day of January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dollars.
' Ie x ditto, deferred flock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th
December, 1795, bearing inttreft from the firft Janu
ary, 1801, for 798 83*100 dollars.
Said certificates are fuppoled to have been loft or
stolen in this citv some time in December or January
last.
JOSEPH THOMAS,
No. 59, North Front-street.
Philadelphia, July 21, 1796. d6w.
r *_ Philadelphia, Wed'Chefler, Strajburgh,
id- Lancader, York and Fredetick-tswn
£ 5 y AGES.
I ' 1 'HE proprieton of the above Stages, return their bed
A thanks to their friend, and the public in general, for
the encouragement received in this line of business, and beg
® leave to inform th* public, that they arc determined to run
P their stages through from Philadelphia to Lancaster in
one day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July instant,
in the following manner,—viz. A Stage will set out on
that day at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the hotife of
George Weed, Market-flreet, Philadelphia, and run by
the way of Weftcitefter and Strafbutfgh, arrive in LanCas
ter the fame evening, on Friday morning run to Wright's
Hi- f err y an( j exchange palTengers with the York and Fredei
(he ick-town stage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat
ex" urday, and on Monday morning following, at 4 o'clock,
said stage will set out from said George Weed's, Phila
i delphia, and arrive at Lancaster the fame evening, on
Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out from the house
of Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia
the fame evening, aAd will commence again on Thursday
>nd : morning following, and continue every week—The price.
1 lo I for each paiteHger from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three
I dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three quar
the ! teis, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like sums for
150 weight baggage, with the usual allowance of 14 lb.
gratis to each passenger, and ; pence a tr.ile for all way
pafiengers. 30—§4w
Johii.Reilly,
George Weed.
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo of the fliip Ganges, capt. Tingsy, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING Oi
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARK
A variety fine worked and plain Muslins,
Doreas, (s*c. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK. PEPPER,
For Gale by
Witlings y Francis,
No- 91 Penn Street.
I June ? $
New-England RUM in Hhds.
COUNTRY GIN in bands,
JUNIPER BERRIES in Calks,
SPERMACETI, ">
COMMON WHALE, and r OIL.
TANNERS 3
SPERMACETI CANDLES,
Tallow Djt to, Mould anti Dipt'
White SOAP, in Boxes
Bell Boflon BiiEF, in barrels and half barrels
CODFISH, in hhds,
Best Boston MACK.REL, in barrels, and
A few choice'fmoaked SALMON, For Sale by
JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co.
Alio, a small invoice of well assorted
INDIA GOODS,
JUST ARRIVED.
Aug. 13
• FOR. SjLE,
COFFEE, in hhds. bbls.|& hags
COTTON, of Demerara, and > entitled to drawback
SOAL-LEATHER >
Alio,
BOSTON BEEF, and Moul4 and Dipt CANDLES.
Apply to ISAAC HARVEY, Jun.
No. 5 south Water-ftrect.
8 mo. ao. $3 W
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
SouOhong _ 1
Hyson Skin / .
Young Hyson > ' FRESH TEAS
Hyson and . \
Imperial '
Yel k>w Nankeenr
Ware, alTorted in Boxes and Chests
Quicksilver
Bandanno Ilartdkerchiefs of excellent quality ia
chests
London Mai'ket ~i MADEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, hogsheads, &
New-York Market ) quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogfkeads
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in facets
3 Calks of Cutlery aflorted
A few chests of Manthefter Goods, aflorted thick,
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black fewing-lilks
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Nails aflorted iji calks
July t8 mvJcf *
4pf Waflrington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, Mo. 11,
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
federal city.
. A magnificent ) ao,ooo dollars, & ?
dwelling-houie, J -cash 30,000, ire J s°>°ob
I ditto 15,000 & cash 15*000 40,(^9
I ditto ii.oou & caih ij,oa» 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & calh 10,000 3#,o<>p
I" ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,00®
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,00® 10,090
1 calh prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are ■ 10,000
■ID do. 1,000 - «• 10,000
ao do. 500 - - 10,000
00 do. too - - _ 10,000
ano do. 50 10,000
, 400 do. 45 • ■- 10,000
I 1,000 do. • ao.ooo
15,000 do. 10 • • 150,000
1
> 16,739 Prizes.
33,161 Blanks.
■ 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollat 1 !, 4100,000
1 N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
- Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the las? -drawn
ticket, and the 30,006 the last but one :
And approved notes, fecuririg payment in either money
r or prizes, in ten days.atter drawing, will be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets.
This .Lottery will afford an elegant fperimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ended in the City of Walhington—
Two beautiful deflgns are already telexed fpr the entire
_ fronts on two of flie public squares ; from thele prxwragi
it ispropofed to erect two Centrqand Toy r corner buildings,
> as soon as polUhle after this lottery is fold, and to convey
them, complete, to the fortunate adventurtrs, ia
the manner described in the fchemefor the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
I the necessary expeAfes of printini/, &c. and the furplns
r will be made a past of the fund intended for the National
; Uaiverlity, to be erected within th« city of Walhington.
1 The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
I fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
:, after it is finilhsd ; and any prizes for whiJh fortunate '
d numbefs ate not produced within twelve months after th«
f drawing is closed, are to be confldered as given towardi
y the fund for the University ; it beiflg determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the elding of the draw
s ing, and t!b take up the bonds given as security.
The r.eal securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
- are held by the President and two Dire&orsof the Bank
: > of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
•- mount of the lottety;
II The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
e the late Commissioners aflifted'in the management of the
a Hotel Lottery are rcqueiled to undertake this arduous talk
y a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num
0' ber of thefc having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
e friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jetfts may continue to favor the design.
,r By accounts received from the different puts of the
'• Continent as well as from Europe, ,wbcre the tickets
y have b>» i f*nt for sale, the public ate assured that the
drawing will speedily comment, and that the care and
caution unavoidably ncceffary to itifure a fafe 'disposal sf
ths tickets, has rendered the fnotr suspension indispensable.
1 SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Ba|ik of Columbia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gilman, Boston ;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells,
1- Cooper's Ferry. eo
Landing
" From on bdard the Nancy, William Belcher, tnaf
ter, from Bourdeaux, a cargo, confiding of—
3 50 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET,
' 232 Cases of 24 bottles each, Claret,
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, asd
1 of RIBBONS,
Fot Sale by
F. Coppinger.
*3- # dif.I'oreign Intelligence. Qr c
LONDON, June 7.
From the London Gazelle, june 4, 179.6- a Cap
His Majedy having been pleated to appoint W.l
liam Campbell, Esq. to be Governor and Com- of
mander in Chief of his MUjedys Bermada or So- ;§ f(Jr
mess .Islands, in Ameiica, he this day took the t0 tra
Oaths appointed to be taken by the Governors of o( g ,
His Majedy's'Plantationa. - bafen
-■ and n
MR. LOVEDEH. deeds
There is no one man in this kingdom, to whom Blacl
the public arc more obliged than to this gentleman, a He
During thepropofed" regency, it was all but fixed cffetl
that the Prince of Wales (hould take upon him feel
thzi high office.—At this inttHit, Mr. Loveden, prifo
with the created propriety and manlincfs, stood up inoui
in the House, and moved that a farther snqniry Jeffu
might take place before a step of such confequen- it w(
«s (hould be rifqued. Fortunately for the coun- to fe
try his proposition was approved ; and.during this drip
enquiry, our invaluable and amiable Sovereign was the I
completely restored. J lO
mni!
DISTRIBUTION OF THE BRITISH NAVAL TOR.CE, 0 n
Eicluiiveof theHjREB Asued Vessels, which are g r ; t
chiefly employed in proteaing the coasting-trade of c j aj j
_ ; n j:
Line. 5 o» Fgts- . Sps. Tot lncn .
In pert and fitting . *8. » 31 43 IS 4 vind
Guard-thips, Hospital-(hips,") R.o]
and Prison-ships, at the >it 1 11 16' W J,J
several Ports, j a fit
In the English and Iri(h chan- 716 t 33 31 83 r i C a
ne l'> •* o
In the Downs and North sea» 6 3 11 3°
At the Weil-India iCands and") g 3o l 0
on the passage 5 . . _ are
At Jamaica 60 4 9 IS an d
InArr-erieaand at 1 I , 13 7 »3 nea
land S Pio
Ea(Wndies and on the paff-| It 1 * 9 7 19 !■, *
ag«, 3 -
Coast of Africa I t 11 J Mr
Gibraltar and Mediterranean 43 o 33 9 6 S to
T«tal in Commiffios ito |19 (169 [ er
I c
Thfte if, perhaps, no Naval Officer who has rlcl
seen so much real service as Sir Alan Gardner: he anc
Vas on bdard the Dortfetfliire in the year 1759» ° u 5
when Sir Edward Hawke obtained the famous vie- Ar
tory over Marshal Conflant—ln 1778, h« took ma
the Lion, -of 40 guns, whan he commanded the aru
Maiddore. of z8 gun«.—He wag in the engage- 38
nient off Grenada, between Admiral Byron and am
the Comte D'Eftaing.—He signalized himfelf par
ticularly on board the J)uke, on the 12th April, nal
1782, when SirG. Rodney obtained the viflory oei
over the Erc.ich fleet commanded by the Comte e "
de Graffe. It i« unnecessary to fay what he did 6n wl
the Ift June, 1794, in the Fleet commanded by or
Lord Howe.—The recolletlion of hit brilliant fer- P<
vicet in the Queen,,l4 frelh in the mind of <very
British Tubjcft, and he received as the reward of 'br
hit valour, a didinguilhed mark of the approbation
of his sovereign. In the vl&ory of Lord Brid- p
port, in 1795, he also had V\«» (hare: we do not
mean this as an enumeration of the different afti ar
ons in. which he has borne a confpicnous part, but w
as some of the mod driking 4 for, besides what Ave
liave tnentioned,he has lhewn the mod dirtingui(h-. "
ed courage and ability as kn officer in many other g'
engagements. In the year 1761, he was particu
larly noticed for-his activity and bravery, as a lieu- el
tenant on board the Bellfina, when (he took the c
Couragsux, of 74 guiiH : in this action, the Coil- P
rageux had 240 raen killed and Hi wounded, h
Such services, we trust, will not be forgotten,
■when such a mail deps forward for public favour.— "
Our Countrymen have never been backward to P
reward merit—they never had a fairer opportusi- n
ty tofhew that disposition.'
Mr. Fox is so weded to Coalitions, that -h« muS
stew his partiality for them in every situation. —
Hence, rather than not ca-alefce at all, has he for
med a jun&ion with Parson Home, the mao who,
all his life, has been lavish in his ahufe of Wr. Fox.
A letter from Leei's, dated M*y 29, contains
the folloiying melancholy intelligence :—" This
morning 4 number of persons were assembled at a t
lerge wara.room, in Union dreet, to hear a t
er of the Mefhodift persuasion, when, the floor ]
giviog way, 16 women, a man and a child were j
erulhed to death, and between 70 and Boperforts
of both sexes were -either dreadfully bruised, or
r scad some of their limbs broke. The Women killed
tvere cljieflj old and poor.
DOVER, June 5.
Yederday arrived from Charleston, the Gadf
den, Captahi Hayward, in thirty-three days.
SALISBURY, May 30.
The effects of erithufiafm were seldom mora
whimsically pourtrayed than in ah exhibition which
took place hereon noon —One Futch
ti, carter to a firmer in Fitherton, by ruminating on
the obfeured doctrines of some fanatical preachers,
whom he it in the habit of attending, at length
worked his imagination up to such a pitch, that he
•ftually dripped himfelf totally naked in bis maf
ttt's barn, and running through Fifhettnn-dreet,
god over the bridge, fcampfrsd through mod of
tht ftreettof the city, " in pursuit (as be
God Almighty T" returned at length by Ciane
bridge to the place where he had undrefTed, He
afterwards declared that he (hould certainly have
gone to the Devil, if he had not pet formed this
Angular feat \
In the Press,
JniffceA'tly will bepullifhtd, by W. Yoong, Mills '
& Son, Corner of Second and Cbefnut-fireet,
An Apology for the Bible,
In a {erics of Utters adJreffed to Thomas Paine, author
of a book entitled The Age of Ueafon, part the second,
being an inveftig.uion of true anrf fabukus theology.
By RICHARD WATSON, D. D. F. R. S.
Lord Bilhop of Llandi", and Regius i'refeffor of Divin
ity in the Univefcfity of Cambridge.
Jiug. ij.
- - *— en vu
from the Cohwhtan numi
Or Ca?T. PI GOT and Ca?t. JESS UP. t i nue
Mr. Russell, . . * ir : fe '
HAVING read with inexpreflible indignation vfcic
the (hamePul treatment of an American citizer- by
a Captain Pigot, of the Brit till frigate Success, 1
(hould wilh to be informed-, the chanm tQ 1)t
of vour paper, who this Captain Pigot u; for it r?e tl
is fdmetimes doing foeiety almost as much service VO nr
to trace the particulars of a fconndrel as it « that
of « man of worth and honor. The Rations to faj£
b&fetiefs, as well as to honor, ought to be known,
and mankind may be benefited by a rectal of the K
deeds of a Nero, a Robespierre, aid the pirate ed -,
Black'oeard, almost as much as bv that of a 1 itusx jf j,
a Howard, or a RttffeH. The gibbet has it» good ~m
cffeft as well as the ftatjie. Every man does not who
feel alike—lor my part, nothing since the Jer.ey
prison (hip has roufe'd my indignation like this inta
tnous deed of Capt. Pigot's. Had he (hot Capt. gr »
JefTup, or even (tifled him in the hold ot his mip, n3rc
it would not to my feelings been equal in atrocity of r
• to seizing an American citizen, ordering him *p be The
i dripped and whipped like a thief. Had 1 teen
s the fnfferer, and could have fcivlved themdignity, —
no distance, court or danger, (hould deter me from
infliaing the fame punilhment of rlie cat o'mnt tail: ]
. on this dastardly villain, who is a scandal to the ma ,
c British navy and a disgrace to'his conunifliorn Ye
f classical men can belt tell in what feTvid drains of s on
, t indignation the mod eloquent of orators roused the p O J
4 vindicative judiee of his countrymen againfl a Vice a[
Roy who caused a Roman citizen to be publicly ■ the
6 ' whipped—and (hall a paltry captain of a frigate do
B similar deed, and high (pirited, independent Ame
-3 rican submit to it with the daitardly feelings of a the
3 negro to his overseer .' on!
There fc no country where the matters of veflels Ti
are from so refpes«ble a class of people as ours, die
and there are a few of us but what have brothers or rc ]
-J near conne&ionswhomayfalliiUo the hands of your -j„f
Plgott, if this fdatidakjus aft (hould pass over in Jif
19 filenfce. 1 know as little of Mr. Pigot as Ido of of
5 Mr. Jeffup. 1 know net to what town, or even th:
'•S to what state, the latter belongs. I view the mat- t !n
~ "ter perfectly unbiassed as it regards the two men.
' I coafider William JeiTup as a deeply injured Ame- ro
as rican citizen who oaght to be redressed feme where, hi:
, e and I consider Capt. Pigot as a guilty tyrant who re ,
q ought to be punilhe? 1 . somewhere. Were all the (JJ,
c! American ship maders of my toind, they would
>k make the fufTerings of Capt. Jeffup a joint eoscern, ; t
[j e and address the Supreme Executive on the fubjeft, hs
e . as a matter far, -very far, beyond that of property, I
and with many men beyond that of life itfelf. ar
, r . I have, Mr. Russell, a ftiendfhip for the British i„
;i nation, and a r«fpedf for their navy, which to my fl,
r y certain knowledge, contains gentlemen ofthe drift- f r
lte eft honor and humanity. Nor am I one: of those m
j n who believe half what is printed in the Chronicle j {
by or Aurora, refpedting Britilh infolcnce, and im e(
(.f. pteffment of Ameriean citiiens, for 1 know it is t)
■ry one of the dishonorable tools with which the Jaco- tf
of rbins labour in their glorious work of vilification, p,
0B disorganization, confufiori, and final bloodflied.— jf
id. We (hould separate thefc lies and exaggerations
, Q[ from the ease before us, a cafe well authenti ated, tc
and which inspires but one sentiment, and which a
3Ut were it a general practice in the Britifa navy as it n
■ ve is a rare and solitary instance, I would once more
jfl,, j stake life and fortune to repel a tyranny more de- a
h er grading than that of Tunis or Algier*. c
j cu _ I I therefore hope that some of your correspond- v
I ents will give some account'of Captain Pigot, t
the commander of the Britilh irigate Success. It is \
■ ou . probable he will be found some daring fallow who a
led. | has been promoted merely for his severity ; or eKc
ten ' t j some drunken, cowardly fea-monder, who owes his <
■_! I dation to powerful connections, who were able to ]
I to pur chafe with money a commiffton which he could 1
ual-1 not obtain by his merit. A YANKEE. 1
(l From the Columbian Centinel.
'j 'ATRIO riSM.
I ' " " I love my country, good Horatio;
for- I
" And were it but a ni-ft of vip'rbus serpents, j
vho, I «• I'd'Hraw my tongue ferih, reeking from iuroot,
I " Ere I would fpcik one word to her dlfgrace."
p .*• Akon.
s Mr. Rossei-l,
t nis I HAVING lately returned from Europe, and having
at a j travelled from the feat of the Federal Government to
ach-j this *o«rn, I cannot bvit express my agreeable difap
fjoor I ppintment at the vast improvements, the flouriftiing
were commerce, prolpersus towns, and happy country, i
r ' have beheld. I had been taught to believe by th<> pe
nt rufal of some American papers at the Coffee-honies,
or I in London, that the contrary of what I have experi
tillcd j eiiced, was the afiual situation of affairs ; and I have
I frequently felt t,he mod pointed chagrin, when I have
I beheld foreijiners reading the articles, which have thus
I degraded our country, and which 1 now know to be
Jadf-1 falfe.
1 It will readily be admitted, that there are yonr grnm-
I bling philosophers, who are continually railing at the
J times, in every country j who fee every I hing through
moral t ' ,e me^'um their own peeviflj optics ; and because
, . , I they happen to be cursed with feelings whieh will not
v. I P crm '' them to enjoy the comforts of life is they pass,
utch- I a.re eternally endeavoring to make the reft of the world
ng On I is -wretched a 6 themselves. —But I have ever thought
:hers, J it vas the attribute of Patrioti/m. to- appreciate its
» n gth j own country, When truth and candor would permit it.
lat he 1 How tben can we account for the calamitous tales
r | which our pretended Patriots are continually publish
' j ing to the world, and wV.ich are all as falfe as hell ?
if By no other rule, than that they are fecrct enemies,
■oft I under the garb 0/ friends !
id) of I fn India r the Aaxrican charafler (lands as high as
Ciane I that of any nation of> earth.— All the papers are luS of |
£| e j -compliments on the wisdom, prudence ind rr.ignini- j
have 1 m *y °f o ur rulers. In Europe, I never heard a (en- !
d "his I ottered which tended in the least. to. disparage
I Anierica, exceptfrom thole wko brought certain Ame-
I rit-an papers in proof of their insinuations ; and wh'ofe
I objeit was tc deter emigrations. The t-elebrated
I Dr. Winterbotham, in the preface of a vork lately
| printed, speaking of America, (ays, " The United
J States «f America, as a rising etjipire, open a vast field
Wilis 1 for the cohtcmplative philofopber and man of feience,
'«(, ' the adventurous merchant, the lkilful masufailurer,
the ingenious mechanic, and industrious labourer—
while the found policy and benign influence el its go
author vernmertf, seem to invite each from the different parts
second, , 0 f the old world, to reap those advantages which a
ty- fertile foiland an encreafihg commerce must ever en
g. iure, when uniiicumbered with impolitic (hackles and
Dinin- hca»y duties and-irapofts.
'• The inhabitants of Europe have not been infenfi
-56 hie cf tiicfe circumftanecs, so fayorable to the tnjoy
n>«'it-of • 'tuppiaefs and be j* Uo ?" t,e ™ i
ed to form a judgment of -hftil/eon- ?
numbers whith have emigrated, W d wVU Ibfl eon f 0 ne
tinue to emigrate from iu faofoin—numbers which it. ,
nr. sent eonvulfed fixation will ccrtamly tnc#k> ««J ing
which nuift add to;he riches and iUb,iity, a s wc
prove higMy advantageous to the corame.ce and .
riufatfures of the American empire.
r' an E'i"lilhman could write, thus, what ought not ladel
to be rctc.umc.nts of ah American public, when they tl.at
fee th'ofe Who aflame the name of Americans, endea- eren
vor'mc to degrade their country m the eyes of all the a( c
Xwi and whose -hole time seems H
service of (hole who would wife to make the world
believe, America to be as barren as a sand plain,
that it. commerce was annihilated, that it contained .n th
no men either of genius or feiei.ee; mat ihe "chord- refp
ed it over the poor ; that ingratitude was BraftAd as exp(
if it were the fir ft of virtues: that the government on ,
Ure the hirelings of a Britifli Ministry ; tha. that pan
whom the world confide,* as "-s the pomt of the CQn ,
ramid of I'atriotifm, Integrity and Pub he V'tue,
was a traitor ; that a Jay had been bribed by the kf- yen
On" of a hand; and that his illuflnous compeer t,ie the[
great Adams, was an advocate for hereditary Mo- not
narchy i What I repeat ought not to be the resentment an( ]
of real Americans of a conduit so base and degrading . p a ,* r
The most marked detestation. am£rlcan . . ball
■ — "I 'I I IMHI""""" — j mA
From the CthneßicHt Gazette- tho
EVERY friend to t!te general happincts of j
■ mankind must intercfl himielf, in a greater or lets j ra ci
' decree, in all measures which have so. their objett to c
f some ufeful'improvemMtj either as they refpeci j ]
: political welfare of society, or the more immediate un y
: advantages resulting from important difcovenes in f or
f • the ufeful arts. . t0 '
5 Under the influence of this sentiment, 1 nave
- lately attended to a fubjeft which hag become a no!
» theme of conf.derable controversy «'ith many not mc
only in this but several other States of the Union. c j
> The fubjeft to which I refer, is a vote of the Me- Jma
• dical Convention of the State of Connefticul, I t [ l(
r relative to a new mode of removing paint and \for
r inflammations frcm the human fcody, which was ra ;
n discovered and introduced into pra&ice by a fellow j .„g
if of that focieiy. Being personally acquainted with 1 ne!
n that gentleman, I feel the more disposed at this m{
- time to submit a few candid remarks on that sub- J t h,
'• je£l to the public, as I am informed that dange- j r Jg
roU3 sickness, in one branch of his family, called J p a
him loon after his return from Philadelphia to the I
10 remote parts of a neighboring State, to afford me- an
ic dical »fijdance to thoff who were dear to lum. j j;,
!d Sensible of the importance of this fubjeft, as joU
n > it refpefts not only the gentleman whose character J
has been wantonly traduced, but also the public, i
y» I have endeavored to inform myfelf as to the origin i
and cause of that attack; and after an impJitial JU(
ft* investigation, I dill am more surprised when I re- |e j
iy fleft that such a pub!icati<m could possibly proceed ; t
:t- f rcm a society established for the purpose of pro- pc
ife moting medical knowledge. From the abusive Jar
: ' e terms in which it is couch<s from beginning to cc
n end, one would naturally be led to conclude, that D f
'« the gentleman alluded to was far from being among j,,
o- the refpeftablc of his profeflion. He is accused of ler
ny propagating f/tl/lonotls obt/imfng a patent to aid tlelu• 1
- five quackery, disgracing that society, daPiv 'mrfth'icf I
ns abroad, pnaSifing a bare-faced impo/ition difgraceful jj.
J, to the Faculty arid delufivc to ihe ignarant. Can j w
ch a ny but the vilcft impofttir, the basest felon, the
*' most worthless ont-calt of society, whose crimes
)re lud long finee doomed him to perpetual iiifamy I
Je- and fcotn, deserve such cenfntes, efpecialty when L
eotning from a body where candor and liberality j 0
id- would become them as fhimng ornaments. That Q
Qt > this gentleman's charaftei (hoJld be confideted in j
' s this point of view, is what 1 prtfume neither his
'ho acquaintance nor a candid public will be willing to | r
"He acknowledge. If his refpeciabiiity in his profeflion i
h'« can be eftimateil by his ihare the practice of I
Ito physic, by the number of (Indents whom he has 1
uld taught the theory of medicine,, or by the promo I
lion his brethren of the faculty liave conferred up- I
on him, I belioVe we fliall ft.il! meet with difficulty I
in determining from what source those epithets I
mentioned above originated. Has he not, on every I
occasion, for neaily twenty yeari past, when the I
t, physicians of the county of Windham to which he t
belongs, have convened to make appointments of | f
N " delegates or officers for former afiemblies of Doe- 1
,j n g tors, teeeived from his brethren some promotion ?
to Ever since the ettablilhmeut of the present me
fap- dical society of this (late, has be not beeh invari
hing ably appointed a reprelentative from. Windham
y> 1 county, to the several conventions? Has he no{ '
been repeatedly their firft representative, and even
j' ]at this time is he not their chairman ? TUofe per- ;
h ave sons who will tioublc thcmfelves to afeertain the
have tr\ith of facts will find those queftious answered in
thus the. affirmative. Whence then flows that torrent
0 be of abuse, which is aimed withfo much fo.ee at the
tendered pa.t, t!® reputation of that gentleman,
t'the * ara unw '"' n ß believe that so rcfpeftable a bo
augh a ® convention ought to le, could be
:aufe influenced by interested motives, pr others not'fo
1 not honorable as to convert their records into a repofi
pafs, tory of spleen and malevolence, and make their
fee ret ary the public organ of private (lander.
ut > l hat falfe reprelentations, or some particular
i!t it! c ' rcumaanc « E might exist which (hould cauK the
tales paffingand puhhfoing such a vote, is possible. And
blifti- vet that a vote, of that importance, (houlj be pilb
helllifted to the world, without the moll mature delibe
inies, ration, seems to be incompatible with that ftabih
ty which would well become an honourable inftitu
ullot f"®" » a "d in my opiuion, may derogate from the
[nmi- her records m3y have on a candid and en
fen- lightened publick. It is said that this vote wai
arage the result of party, and obtained through the ex-
Ame- eTtions of one er two individuals. By one of them
whose that a motion was made that the discoverer (hould
bH* 1 k* imraeiiiatc ly e *pclled the Society i
' ot * meßl ber from Windham County was at
I field t^le ' r or any one person acquainted in the
lence, ' degree, with the practice from candid cxperi
lurer, ments. 1
lrer Of course there was so possibility of obtaining
1 go- any jest statement of the real importance-os the
discover y' aa djhe accused person being absent, and
x er * Having not the lead information that this ungene
:s and rou ' cabal was #atrying on against him at this junc
ture, afforded a fair opportunity for his enemies, to
lfeiiG- all edge charges agaiali him, as falfe as they were
enjoy-j base. At thsir meeting in OSober lad, that gen-
"■
tleman openly introduced the fuljea of Uisdifctfy--'
ry before the convention, and the piaftice bti,.g (1 r
To new and exttaordioary a nature, he* was »psi>
ted to deliver a le&ure on tha'. at the en'.a.
ing meeting, with which appointment, he V?.s
himUf affared me, he fhowW have complied, !«i
not unavoidable engagements defaced V n ?t P,,!.
ladelphia unii! after the society h*d Lu;
that society instead of waiting for insecure, of
even affording him an opportunity of defending hi;
practice, by giving them fpeornens of its eSi acy.
have stigmatize, thus ung-eneroufly, ::
his absence, not only his pra&ice, but his c'haraftej
in the inoft opprobrious and abulive term?. Wit it
r e fpe£t to the otefuhvefs of this discovery, Ida not
expedt that my adept ions will have much influence
on the public lentiment, but if prefer may it
ascertain its merits,'are adopted, the public will be
convinced of its ultimate importance, a have gi-.
'ven it a candid trial, have relied on faftt, and nave,
ihereby fatfsfied myfelf as to its efficacy. It will
not raise the dead nor turn icd hair black, but wiii
and has, to my pertain knowledge, removed many
pains in a furpi ifing manner, which have for years
baffled the efforts of medecine. ll'hen the wqrld
•will divejl them/elves of their prejudices, and be infor
mid as to the mode of operation by calling on the au
thor of the discovery, and feeing his experinier.ts,
or the written testimonies of many refpeftablc cha
racters in the United States, they wilt thSn bs able
to determine, as to its merits.
In coufequenee of th!s cxtiaordinary vote, many
unhappy proceedings mull unavoidably take place,
1 for as the Convention have dir4&ed their Secretary
to cite any member of their Society before the.v. at
' their next meeting, and give reasons, why be fttould
1 not be expelled the Society, for even using the
1 meatjs ;no iuconftderable number rtitift be arraign*
• ed before that medical tribunal, and hazard the flig
* ma of a difgraceful expulsion J Several memberl of
> the Society, I ana informed, notwithstanding that
forh dden uatc have turned lh»ir 3tte»rtiai>-to deut.
5 mine the real importanee of the pra&ice, and b -
" fnp convinced of its efficacy, have through an ea>
1 tie It desire, of furnidiing themselves with every
! means, which could render them ufeftil to
'■ their profeffion, become purchasers of the patent
" rights, and are now iicentiouily removing human
pains at the hazard of the awful drfpleafure of
e that inquifitionaltribunal. When their dreadful fiat
! * arrives, it'is hoped the world will not, with the me
dical convention, consider them as the refufe aid
18 outcasts of society, but take pity on their doom,' -.d
: f elteem them as the unhappy vidtims of unwarram*
■» able duplicity and their own unfortunate cretlul ty.
B But not to trifle or treat this fubjeft with levity or
unfairnefs, at which *bfer»ance 1 have ftriftty yjm
ed in thecourfe of these remarks, I earne.fily hope
it may be considered by the Public ot i..fficier,t im
portance to claim a candid and impattial attent< jti ;
' e and that it may not like manyvvery important dif
;o coveries, which have been introduced in the times
at of ignorance and fuperilition, be raftly condemned,
'% but treated with that candour whifch becoeies an
D * enlightened people, in an age of fcrenfic improve
«• pent. A« OBSERVER
e f IT. B. It is prefurned tha.t the Printers, vtio
u have publiflied the vote of the medicil convention,
will have the candour to give the above a p!at:t t»
c their papers.
es _
1 y Windham County, j4uj. 16, 1796.
en " WE the fubferiberi certify, that from a variety
'5" of cases, which iirtve occurred, not only in our
at own pra&ice, but in that of our neighbouring pity-
[ n ficians, we are fully convinced of the uti 1 cf
113 Dodtor Perkins's patent metallic inilrumcnu, :u
t0 removing various pains, spasms and inflammatory
on affections from the human body, and that the dif
-0 covety is of importance to the healing art.
138 • JOSEPH BAKER, ~) FEILOWS
10 * JONATHAN HALL, I orm
jP" * ELISHA LORD, f MEDJCA*
u > * JOHN BREWSTER, J contention.
ets THOMAS HUBBARD,
Lr y Member of the Medical Society,
the * Doffors Biker, HjII, Lord and Brcwfter, with
he the author of the metallic discovery, are the five repre
of fentitives from Windham county t» the Conneflicut
oc- Medical Convention. ,
,n ? Doctor JAJLEB DYXR.
ne- Member of the Medical Society of the Start of
ari Connecticut, and Surgeon to the 21 ft Regt.
am I CERTIFY, that for leven years past 1 have
no{ been'troubled with almost a cunftant rheumaticpa-i
ven in my »cft (houlder. For the two last vears it has
>er- gradually iocreafed till it became" very dil'.rclßng»
tbe and has been at #ided with a ftiffnefi to such a de
3in gree that 1 could not raise myhand to the'iop ot
en t my head without gieat difficulty. On or about
the the 18th of Jnne Lft, I myfelf operated or my
)an , (houlder, when it was in extreme pain, with Dr.
bo- Perkins's patent trailers—The pain, to mj threat
1 be futprife, wholly left me within fix minutes, a.-J
tfo my (houldet; was soon freed from its former :ti&-
)ofi- oeft, so that I could move that aim and th'juiiltf
heir with the fame ease that I could the other. T ; (
pain ha? but o: ce returned, and then very Hgnt'jr,
ular in consequence of severe cxercife: it was immerii
the ately removed by applying the tra&ors.
find 1 further certify* (hat 1 have been affliftet! wiiH
pijh- a pain in my head for twenty" years pad. It
libe- usually come on in the fore part of the day, w.l
bill- continued tea or twelve houts. Has often bera
titu- very distressing. Abx>ut the time cf the above
the operation, I applied 'hi* "7
1 en- when in severe pain. I was in a few minutes ca&di
wa» and the pain has not yet returned. Fot three yea™
r ex. before this operation, I do not think I have been
hem three weeks at a time free from this corrjphin'. —
ould I'rom what 1 have experienced, and heard, of lne
efficacy of Doctor Perkins's inftnjfnente, I dec sl
s at not but they will prove of great utility to mankind
-1 the JAREB DYER, Phynciw.
peri Canterbury, /lugujl 11, 1796.'
ining -^ or by the fubicribers,
f .L in PENN-STREET,
, 130 Quarter Ciiefts fr«th Hyson.Tea ;)
'an 100 ditto do. Freih Souchong Tea;
?? ne ' 300 Boxes China, containing fmail tea filtts
jaac- pieces;
;e, to pieces Baadsnoef.
were fVikingp Ss 3 Trancu
gen- January ie ' £ li!J"
/ IuUCT
WEDNESDAY EVENING. Aocvy 14.
It appears from the following paragraph in a Lon- Ai
" that the difference between the Alge- ly, I
rines and the Danes is terminated. • days.
The Dani® Canful at St. Übes, has given no- Sc
tlct " Thar the Court of Spain, through the mi* days.
nilW* the prince of peace, had given official notice, lante
fhnt thc4jo Algerine sailors, captured in a Danish Safe*
fiiip, bad been released, and were returned to AI- A
„j crt .that the Consul at Malaga had communiea- Farm
' rl-d intelligence to the fame effe&,arul that (eveul lat. :
Danish viffcls had been met by the Algerine crui- T1
Uts, were queflioned and examined merely in the fton,
i uftoma'ry maimer, and passed undetaincd.-—Th»t Tl
1 therefore there was not any doubt of Dauifh vessels Virg
pafiing free.!" Tj
Tlic captain of a vessel arrived at' Norfolk in. for E
farm* tiiat two French frigates have been captur d T,
•it St. Domingo, by a ship of the line and ansr from
ther vessel, and sent to Jamaica. _ 28th
A letter from London fays, that the majority T
in the House of Commons, is, by the late election, at Ja
cncreafed bj an addition of five members. T
Three French frigates, under the command of r>ore
Captain Barney, anchored at the More caflle, Ha- Ju
va>ina, on the 9th inft. They were to fail the Wife
next day ia quell of a Jamaiea convoy, expe&ed N. \
>' to fail in August. J 1 "
£xtra& of a letter from a gentleman at Cape- Pacii
Francois, to his correspondent iti Baltimore, burg
dated July 28. T
" The poit of Limbe is declared free for neu- at B
trait t» come and go, without being obliged tp fell.
But this looked on aa'uotkjng mole than a trap
for Americans, who, 1-catinot help obferying, are too ««
ealily caught. 1 was very sensible of the effe£l the Chel
report of the arrival of the Frenoh fleet here, would 011 b
have. 1 feared a good many would fuffer by their a p 3 ,
credulity. Captain Barney arrived here a few days. e ty t
ago, in a fine frigate. General Rochambeau, for
fomc cause not yet known, is flipped off to 1' ranee Mul
Voder arrest. ' Dog
" A total change flas taken place in the admini- p;k(
ftrarion, and at present, much for the worse. Per- ; n g
toud, the admioiftrator, is fuperceded by Thibaud ; C rov
but the commiflioners govern every thing. I know able
not what is ft) become of merchants and the own <•
er» of veflels here, as every engagement made by floo
Perrood, it declared void. Even those who con a t C
traced to deliver flour at 24 dollars ptr barrel, are „ 0 t
obliged to take 16, payable in fix months, in pro ca b]
duee at an enormous price. The schooner Hawke, an d
Cnpt. Knap, is one among the unfortunate con- had
tra&ors, and will shortly fail with ballalt. flou
1 1 loac
GAZSTTR OF THE VIfJTED STATES. MARINE LIST. an( *
PHILADELPHIA, August *4.
• ARRIVED.
Sloop Mary, Small, Newbem 6
Chance, Woglom, N. Carolina 3
CLEARED.
' Snow Polly, Reilly, (
Jfcfc'r; t-'ane, Bolton live
Sloop Polly, . Butler, Norfolk ; n f
Arrived at the Fort,
Schefcncr Little Tom, Dumkt* St.Croix jj
Ship Mary, F. *■ n, ' Jacquemel
Arrivals at New-York.—Auguji 23. jV
Bays* » .
Brig Apollo, Robinson, Savannah, 10
Sally, -, St'. Bartholomews, 14
Schr. Shetulkct, Jeffery, do. 12 ! rc
Ruthy, Barnes, St. Thomas, 14
, Barkley, Newbern.N. C. —
Harriot, Lattimorc, Kingston, Jamaica, — 3il '
Henry Guftavus, M'Carty, St. Marks, — e '
Sloop Peterborough Paeket, Hall, St. Croix, 13 crt
Patience, Webb, Philadelphia, 8
■** Harriot, Navarra, do. 5
Sloop Minerva, arrived at Kingston, loth July,
and the schooner Hiram, and Betsey, on the 19th jp
—all from this port. '
The (hip Argus, Capt. Panning, from Havre 1
de Grace for this port, is taken by the British sri- m
gate La Raifon, Capt. Bradford, and carried into ru
Halifax. ■ • ' «
•Tlic ff.TjT Confederacy. Capt. Jenks, of this
port, was at the isle of Bourbon, 24th April last, la
bound tc China. ™
v Btig Apollo, Capt, Robinson, 10 days from f
Savannah; 19th August, lat. 38, 17, was boarded
by the British frigate Prevoyante, Capt. Wemyfs.
who overhauled his took on« man, James
Hamilton, not an American, but who had been
twenty yyars in thiscountry. Capt. Robinson went V 1
on board for the purpofc of getting him clear, but c<
returned with another in his 100 m being American
born. ' 5"
Capt. Aruold, of the brig Sally, from St. Bar
tholomews, informs us that American produce at
that port is very low, in consequence of the qum- "
bers of cargoes continually arriving—fuperfinc flour Ci
would not command more than 11 dollars ; beef, °J
firft quality, to; pork 15 —The day before he -
left St. Bartholomews, he was informed from good
authority that flour at St. Thomas's was fold at 8
dollars, and that beef and pork would command
no price. Butter and lard, " could not be given j
a\v;.y." t
Brig Haddock, from St. Bartholomews, bound t
for this port, was spoke with in lat. 32, long. 69. a
Schooner Heniy Gullavus, Capt. M'Carty, ar- j
rived this day from St. Marks, with a return,cargo c
of beef and pork, finding no market. This ptr- c
fi-ftly coriefponds with our information from St. t
Bartlre'omews and Sr. Thomas's. _* t
t
Arrival: at Be/lon. —AugvA 17. ]
Sclwouer Jason, .Lowell, St. Croix, 14 days. <
Lefttmrre, Capt."Freeman, to fail next day ; Cap- ,
tain Stafford, tor fail in a few days. Ship Dan- :
phtn, Capt. Rich, feir Baltimore, and schooner 1
WaCniigron, Capt. Cook, to fail the lame even
ing. Capt. Lovell, of Boston, had arrived a few
nevs. I
Au?u!l 10, spoke a schooner from Boston, for
Virginia. ;
Aogult 11, spoke brig Polly, Capt, Watts,
MrnDcfiiKitra to Portfmoutb. .
1
'. Brig Endeavor, Kreemin, Liibon, JJ d?f|. indivit
July 24, lat\ 42, 40, long. 52, fpok£ "schooner
Lucy, Ptice, from Portsmouth, for Fayal, out 7 to you
days. as to n
Augaftj, lat. 43. long. 61, 28, spoke (hip Pol- robs d<
- ly, Elliott, from Wifcaffet, for Liverpool, out 9 momei
days. more
Schooner Success, Capt. Pries, Trinidad, 33 The in
• days. Left there, trig Mercury, Williams; Vo- againlt
, lante, Barker ; schooner Friendlhip, Ruffel, of irapior
1 Salem; and brig Trio, Smith, of Boston. popula
August 9, at 10, P. M. was run foul of by ship his,fen
- Fame, Jones, from Philadelphia for London, in -
1 lat. 38, 30, long. 69, and damaged considerably. pa ■>
The Columbia, Lowell, Irom Milfordj for Bo- '
r fton, out 8 days, was spoke June 15, lat, 46.
t The America# Eagle, Pearfon, from heacc for '
s Virginia, was spoke August 3. .
The Fiiendlhip, Goodridge, 9 days from hence
» foi Bourdeaux, was spoke June 30. c
J The Thomas, Alder), of Portsmouth, 63 days
, from Liverpool, with paffengerj, was spoke July .. u c
28th.
tr The Neptune, Blanchard> from Portland, is fafe Ps 0,1
, « Jamaica "IS
The Industry, Fiflier, of Boston, was in Elfi- f'
snore Sound, May, 8.
June 2, was spoke, the ship Mars, Kenny, of j? J nI J
e Wifcaffet, 35 days from New-York,.lying at the llc - c
J N. W. Buoy, Liverpool, outer-harbour. "f^u'i
July 7, lat. 46, 41, long. 38, 13, was spoke, ship 0 U1 "
Pacific, Sat*.er, 42 days from Demarara, for Ham
hurg. . .
The George, Rush, from Salem, artived fafe
1- at Briltol. ■'
P EASTON, August 16.
0 " L»ft Saturday returned ftom the Capes of the
e Chefapeak, the schooner Dolphin, capt. Ewing,
d on board of which went a number of gentlemen 011 ' fij
lr a paity of plea£t»r<, who having a seine, and a vari- y our ,
r s ety of filhiug tackle, were abundantly supplied with c e ; VC c
" fi(h, such as Skate, Flounder, Fluke, Trout, Perch, q ue st
:e Mullet, Drum, Sheepihead, Mackarel, Hogfifh, thanl!
Dogfili, Crabs, Oysters, Cockles, Donblehead, fp g 0
Pike, &c. See. They also had good (hooting, find
r* ing a variety of wild fowl on the shores; and to them
1 i crown their felicity, they found np vessel in the bay
w able to fail with them, efpec
n "The above gentlemen difcoveied a large sea c h»rn
•y (loop, that had 011 Monday the 7th drove (hore p rat jj
n at Old Point Comfort, with all her fails set, and j n
rc not a perion on board. She had neither anchor or
0 cable on board, her'papers were not to be found,
e> and her name and the port to which (he belonged
n ' had been entirely obliterated. She wag loaded with
flour, bread, and pork. 'The inhabitants had. Un; »
loaded her, taken awajr her masts, yatds, and spars, ff
, and were tearing «p her decks, &c." /'V\ r ch
bbm— jf\
BY THIS DAY'S MAILS, f
6 . ~ • Pi!
3 BOSTON, June 19. law 1
From I'OKT DAUI'HIX. &c.
om J was d«- i rec
° n livered to the French, just previous to liis failing, I.
''k in purfuatvet of the article in the French and Spa Sfi a
nidi Treaty, which cedes Spanish Plifpaniola to the «'as
French. The French, immediately on getting pof- or o
' lf fsffxon, eonjmenced the exercile of theircolonial def- nifht
potifm upon the Americans. They take all car I
goes —at their own price—and pay those prices lat«
• principally in promises only. its g
Capt, Show, from St, Marks, fays.it wrs ex- intei
, 2 tremeW sickly there, 2001- 30 feirthen or fokliers dy- men
!< ing every day. A' Britifli officer observed, that Srft
T "the French needed only to exercile ahttle patience havi
and their enemies on the Island would be completely 111-
_ destroyed, without wafting their ammunition or ex e
ertion." _ - f<
We learn from St. Thomas's, that a French 44 f'
gun frigate,'was towed in there in a very disabled J
1 situation—having had an engagement with an En
'7{! glifh frigate, of 32 guns. The officers of the French '
frigate, finding it impossible to keep their men to
pre their qliarters, were compelled to leave the Englili- ,
f, j man, to prevent the capture of their vessel. —So mo
nto runs the report. j a
Capt. Price from Trmidad, mentions, that cajlt.
Vaughan, late commander of the British frigate A- ,
larm ; & who was the author of coctViderable iqm
' motion at the above island—had (hot himfelf in con- •
rom sequence of being severely reprimanded for his con. j jav
dufl, by his fnper'ior officers. !
f s We are informed, that John Davi*, Esq. Lite i ,
Comptroller of the Treafttry, is appointed attorney ma
, ee[l of the United States for the Maffachufetß DiSrift,
sent vice Han;ifon G. Otis, Esq. who has declined ac-
• btlt cepting that office. _■ j^j.
ican We know not whether the depofitton signed Col
bourn Parker, published in yesterday's Chronicle, a[ j (
g ar , is a forgery, or aSually signed by a person of
e at that name ; but we aver, there are no frigates in the 1
,um- English Navy by the names ofth ■ Argonaut or If if- ' zrj
fj our caw ; nor is there any armed Vessel called the me 1
aeef, °f Mire.
: he T'
good NAVILLE GALLATIN.
at 8 From " D'lverno'ts' Revolution in Geni'ja."
nand «« THE revolutionary tribunal of Geneva in
;iven 1794, among ether victims fcle£ted Naville Galla.
tin, one of the m:igiftrates,' who was a man of great th
nund talents, and defended himfelf with such eloquence of
69. and lirength of argument, that one of his judges, to.
1 ar * in giving sentence agaihil him, said, " I have two
:argo consciences ; one of which tells me you are if)|c- d'
ptr- cent, but the pther tells me, you must dig, that pr
1 St. t h e State may he saved." When I die, answered' of
the undaunted magiftiate, the State will lose a j p.
great citizen. Ihe cxprefTion is boiu, hut peifeft- (fr
ly charaAerifes his elevated and undaunted spirit. va
days. " And now, continued he, when fentehce ot death ;,d'
Cap- was paffed'upon him, " now mark the fate which tl
Datt- awaits you and your accomplicesfor you must tl
uoner not hope that guilt like yours, can go unpunished. r
even- You will find that all the ties of fo'cialorder, which d
1 few you have broken to attain your ends, will again be c<
broken by those; who succeed you in your crime», r L
i, for and ia y«ur power v- new factions will be formed li
against you out of your own : and as you have u- tl
fatts, oited, like wild hearts, in pursuing your picy ; so, f;
' • . like wild beasts, you will tear each otber to pieces, c
iti dividing it. Thus will you avenge the cause of retire,
those, who have fallen, and are yet to fall fecrifices affair <
to your avarice and ambition. To them, as well for us
as to rae, the profpeft of approaching immortality taken
rob* death of all its terrors ; but to you the last " (
moment of life will be embittered by rede&iom, Caitia
more poignant than any tortures you can fuffer. Minci
The innocent blood you hatre shed will be heard Fauxl
against you, and you will die without daring to ments
irapiore the pafdonof heaven." This spirited and retire
popular roagiftrate was the night after "
Lis sentence. * name
, ■ — ■■■ hirftfe
GAZETTE c/ the UNITED STATES. ° f .', hE
■ ■ exhib
PHILADELPHIA-. count
Wt'PNFSDAY FVENINC, AVGUST 2\. Rfliir
posed
Philadelphia, Augujl 23, 1 796. di er s 1
Sir, ■_ cries.
At a meeting r>f the Committee of the Philadel- door
pliia,Society for the information and afliftanee of * wonu
perfou* emigrating from foreign countries, held last fetter
night.it was unanimou/ly resolved that " the thanks 'Phey
of this Society be given to capt. Van Renlfelapr t W ent
lately from Bristol for his humane treatment of the f our •
on board his veflel, they rejoice in every t 0 e f<
fucceflue opportunity of manifefting t]ieir attach- o flo\
ment to condtift so congenial with the principles*
of universal philanthropy." I inter*
1 am Sir, ,with great ' joine,
Eilecm, your very a {f o f
Humble Servant. appei
JOHN BR6WNE, Sec'ry. t
No. 45, South Third Street. the si
Capt. Van Renffektet. shot
**7 rema,
'■ Philadelphia, Augvft 23, 1796.
> Sir,.• ■_ v
1 T{ie fatiifalftion I received from the contents of
' your very polite letter t|u* morning are better can- 19th
1 ceived than expreflrd. I have therefore only to re
' quest you would be so good as to prefetii my best th,ey
> thanks to the Society for th« notice they have been f ron ,
> so good as to take of my eonduft tovyards the pas p 3c j;
* fengt'rs on board the fliip Light Horse, pub]
> them at the fame time, that it will "ever be my en- ft an <
1 deavur to aft with humanity and propriety to all, this
ejpecially those who may be under my immediate Jj e ;
a charge, and that I' (hall always elleem it highly 0 f t
e gratifying to meet the approbation ps so laudable |
aflt inftttution as the one you represent. the
r I have the honour to be, arm
'» With due refpeft, your «. fq U2
Obedient Servant. X
1» K. VAN RENSSELAER. m iff
''i Y FRANCE. port
//Wc haVc this day received London papers to the 2,3 d ©f
of June. The following are fcle&ions from them, 1
f * COUNCIL of FtVE'HUNDRED. ■ o f t
. * 26 Praii ial, June 14. of r
Pastor et made a long speech on the necessity of i r
laVv to prevent the fleali'ug of dead bodies, their ihrowdt '
&c. jj'hicft ha concl«ie4 withr moving" the following de- iCa '
f . vree ; : . _ duf
r, I. Whoever (hall be convicted of having remoV- of 1
,1 ' ai>ody, or its bones, from the place where it tor
ie was inferred. of haviitg mutilated it, trodden on it, He
,f- nf outraged it by any aftien •whatever, shall be pu- etu
:f- piffled, by ten years imprisonment. not
r Tl. Whoever {hall be c«nvifted of having vio- out
ca lated the tomb of a corpfjp, to strip it of its (hroud, int<
its garments, or the ornaments with which it was to <
K- interred, fit-all be punished with fix years imprison- Th
y ■ ment. The puniffiment fliall be the fame as in tje tc€
at Srft article, if the body is left in ihe tomb, afui tot
c e having been ftrippfd. , 1 101
■ly 111. Whoever fiiall be convicted of having destroy- hat
: X ed or mutilated coliktim, marbles, ftonei and in
fcriptiotls of any kind, placed above or round a nig
fepu|chre tomb, fliall be pqnifhed villi fvur fro
ed years imprifoement. e,r
; n . OFFICIAL DETAILS—ARMY OF ITALV.
' 1 Buon Ctmmarider-in-Ckirf of the army *f gu
Italy, to the Executive Dire&ory. ne |
1° " Head-quarters Verona, tj Prairial, June 3.
" Citizens "Directors, I ftiall quit this city to*
morrow movning; it is very large and beautiful.— er|
I (hall leave a garrison here, to keep myfrlf matter jr 8
V}' of three bridges over the Adige. y c
" I have not concealed from the inhabitants, an
,m " that ir the King of France had not quitted their rei
00 ' city prior to my passage across the P», X (houl<3 t | l(
OD * J have set fire to a city, audacious enough to : f»ncy j)
, itselF the capital of the French empire.
Jte 1 " I have just vtfited the Amphitheatte: this r«-
a . c J main of the Roman nation is worthy of those by
' whom it was built. I could not prevent feeling .
ac * i Biyfelf humbled at the pitifnlnefs of our Field of
, ; Wars: here an hundred thousand fpeftators Ttiiiy
'J be seated, and hear with cafe the orator who ttioutd j
cle ' address them. 1
0 ( " Die Emigrants are flying from Italy : more J
' than fifteen hundred set out five days before our 1
arrival. They arts conveying into Germany their 1
v 1 rcmorfes and their misery.
(Signed) «• BUONAPARTE." _
— The O.neral in Chief of the Army of Italy, to the
Executive Directory.
' " ! Jlead-quarters, Milln, 20 Praiiial, June 8.
1 in " Citizens Dire Son,
alia- .«» After the battle of Borghetto, the passage of „
reat the Mincio, the taking of, Pefchiera, and the flight "
ence of the enemy into the Tyrolefe, we invested tlie
ges, to»:> of Mantua.
two "0o the 16th, at fire in the morning, General
hie- d'Allemsgnci with the Cliiaf of Brigade, Lefne.
that proceeding with <So©grenadiers to the Eauxbourg
ered' of St. Georgio. I went to La Favorite, a superb
fe a , palace of the Duke of Mantua, about halt a league r
feft-: from the fortrefs. 1 caused a half brigade to ad
sirit. vance with General Serrurier to fapport General 1
leath d'Allemagne, who having perceived the enemy in«
hich the entreiKhrnents of St. Georgio, had attacked [
mud them, and rendered himfclf matter of the Eauxbourg t
(hed. i* and the head of the bridge. Already, notwithftati- t
'hich ding the fire of the place, the grenadiers had alvan- '
in be ced, with their mufijets pointed, on the causeway. 1
imes, They attempted eves to form themfeWes into a co
rmed lumn to enter and when they were (hewn
ve u- the enemy's batteries on the ramparts,." at Lody, '
; <so, fa'id they, " the enemy had mbte.''. But the cir
ieces, cunillartces were riot the face. I ordered thtra to
retire. The day was fulHciently brilliant for an
affair of advanced pofls, and extremely interesting '
for us. The enemy had loft 100 men killed and
taken prisoners.
" General Angereau set out at break of day for
Caltianne Mantuanne. After having paiTed the
Mincio beyond the Lake, he proceeded to the
Fauxbourg of Cheriale. He forced the entrench
ments, took the tower, and obliged the enemy to
retire quite within the fortrefs of Mantua.
" A drummer,.of twelve years of age, whoj>
name I flaall fend you, has particularly dillingtlifhed
himfelf. He climbed, during the fire, t& the top
of the towi;r, to open the gate. , ,
*' I ought not to pafj over a circumstance which
exhibits the barharifm which still reigns in thefc
countries. At St. Georgio there is a convent of
Religious. Thcv had Sed, for the place was ex- *
posed to the fire of the cannon. Some oPcur so!-
diers entered to post themselves in it. They heard
cries. They ran to a low court, and forced the
door of a wretched cell, wlijrethey found a young
woman, fcatedon a milerable chair, -and her hand*
fettered This unfortunate being begged her life.
They broke hei irons. She appeared to be abojit
twenty-two yeariof age. She had been confined
four year* in this filiation, for having endeavoured
to efesipe and to obey, in the age and the country
of love, the impulse oilier heart. Our grenadier*
* paid particular attention to her. She £hewed much
interest for. the French.—She was beautiful, and
joined to the vivacity of the climate the melancholy
air of misfortnne. Whenever any one entered, (lie
appeared uneasy, because Die dreaded the return ol /'
her tyrants. She begged ¥he liberty of breathing J/
the free air. They observed t.6 her that the grape //
<hot poured around the htjufe. Ah ! said she to- /r
remain here, it tQ Jit / ' . yy
LONDON, Jivne 4
1 We have received the Paris Journals up to tW
• 19th inftalit irtclufive. The cputetrts are interest
■ ing, not merely on account of the farther jietaLS
' 'hey give of tic opcratio* cf the arn.iss, but,
1 from the evideiit desire rhry exhibit for a general
pacification. ..A treaty between tjie French Re-
K public and the Jtmpcror ii certainly at no great di
stance; but we fear that the period, for peace to
1 this country if (liil remote ; we fball most probably
e be involved in a war with Spain before the arrival
y of tiiat desirable event. t
e In 'execution of the armistice concluded with
the King of Naples, his cavalry quits thd Auttrian
army, and his five (hips of the line the Eng'iiih
squadron
Letters from St:a(burgh fay, that Auflrian Com*
miffionets had paflcd through that town, on their
way to Paris, atnf that the Eleftyr Palatiue waste
ported to be dead—VEclair. >
»f _
The prefer.t •it' a very critical moment, on account
of the revolution v hn:h has taken place in the mod*
of making contrasts, and ofthe withdrawing of the
alfignats, at a time when utj.tr Sijnt are still ver.y
e . fc«r:c. This e'mbarrafsment ulncreafedby the coti
duft of the retail traders and the former
V. of whom rsfufe to-fell their gopds, and the, letter
it to receive their wages in any thing but, specie.—.
t, Hence atifes a certain ferment, and a general inqui«
u- etude, cf whicjjthe of the coufpirators do
not fail to avail tViemfelves. Few days pass vrith
o. out fame eflTort on their part to carry their schemes
d, into execution. Vefterday they again attempted
bs to excite a commotion in the suburb of St Antoine,
n- The night before las*, one of their projects was de
be teftid and fruftrated- A number of the confpira
ci tot* were to have repaired to the different guard
houfe3,and difcrm the guards. Nine of these men
y- have been apprehended.
in- Ntrmerou* patrohrs parade the fleets day and
I a night, For a few night* past, a part of the troops
ur from th; camp m Grenalle have been Rationed is the
city.
The troops of the line, and a part of the national
*f guard, received- order* to hold thsmfelve* in readi
ne&thi* rooming.
tu " If we may judge by the tore affirmed by the lead
er* of th* Jacobins, Antonelle, Robert Lindet, and
er F*lix Lepcllcticr, and by their publications, ,in the
journal dtt Hcntmcs L'i\rtt, the Patriot de 1789,
1 ®» and the Ami Jet Loix, they are very far from having
e .j retiounced their project* ; they continue to treat
11 ' the conspiracy as a joke, aud the members of the
,c y Dircftoiy a* tyrants. ..
MP.
re- •* . * —* —-
, b v f'rench Goods.
Received ly she Sally, Mitchell, from H*vre~de
n'fcy . V . GraCe '
uld * j Cafe"' CS I Shoes of all colon forts and fiz«J
I Ditto white and rplore'd Silk STOCKINGS
lore I Oitto Fine LAWN , ,
our 1 Dittofceft fine CAMBRIC
• I Ditto Ladies' heft shammy and Grenoble Gloves
For Sate liy THOMAS Sc JOHN RUTLAND.
~
t,ie For Sale or Charter,
p.JP"*?~V THE FAST-SAILING SHI*
LIGHT-HORSE,
. of LY!N<Ta» Meir. J. & R Wain's wharf,
i'jht two hundred anA seventy ions burthen, a. flout, strong
Ti, r wffd, and well fount?. For terms afply to :
Joseph Anthony & Co.
ieral Aug. 14 .' & 6
:tne« ""' ' ~~ "
>urg Lottery and Broker's Office,
pcrb 64, South Skc6nd trxrsu
ague m the Canal Lottery, No. .a, for file—a
» ad- JL Check Book for examination—and f rites paid ia
neral the late lottery.
• . Check Books kept for examination and regiftertng, for
s ,* the City of Waftiington, No. », and Pattefon 'Lotteries,
both of which «e now drawing—information where,
our g are to be had, and prizes'exchanged for undrawn
iftati- tickets. A complete lift of all the prizss in the late New-
Ivan- Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
_ examination.
Tie fubferiber folic its the application of the public
3C ° aijfcfes friends, who wish to putchafe or fell Bank Stock,
hewn Cerrificatss, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
tdy," 'Sec. to obtaii) money «n (kpout qf property.
e cir Wm. Blatkburn.
tra to L Philadelfhia, A*pJ> 18, tawF 0 S S A L E,
A very Valuable Estate,
CALLED T IVITTENHA M> fittiife in the
township oiF Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
71-2 miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
npw Western road: containing 130 acres of excellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of the r.rfl quality. There are
on thepreniffesagood two story brick house, with 4 rooms
«n a Boor, and cellar? under the whole, with a pump-well
of ocellcnt water in front; a large frame barn, (tables,
and other convenient buildings 5 a smoke-house and ftopc,
; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
es. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each Of them, which renders it peculiarly con
venient for grazing.
The situation is pleasant andhcalthy, and froth the high
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the it is vw;y fukable for a gentleman's
country fea^
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
ieceafid, and offered for sale bv
sMordecai Lewi#,
OA. 9. eo.J Surviving Executor.
Washington Canal Lottery,
NO, I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has ajithorifed
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand..
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Wa/hington, from th Po
tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz-.1 Prize of 10,000 dollars, 10/300
1 ditto ,10,060 10,000
v. TiSSS"}
6 ditto 1,000 <5,000
TO ditto 400 -4,00b
10 ditto too »,000
\> 55 ditto 5O *,75°
5750 ditto It 69,008
To be raised for the Canal, *6,250
5850 Prizes, tjjfiOO
I 1650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 .Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
$5" The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a<sl for the punctual payment «f
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will comrtence, without
delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice -will be given.
Such prizKs-as are not demanded in fix months after th«
drawing is finifhed, (hall be confidercd as relinquished for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed) MOTLEY YOUNG,
x DANIEL CARR OLL, of t>
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M. DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Wafcingto*, Feb. n. $
Lottery
FOR railing fix thousand fix hundred and £xty-feven
dollars and fifty cents, by 4 deduction of fifteen per
eentfrom the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
I Prize of fooo dollars is dollars jooo
* I 1000 1030
fr . iOO 500
J »oo xoeo
J© too ®oo«s
99 SO 4950
*00 tj jooo
»060 to *0,000
.5 Lad draws numbers of 100 a dollars each, 5000
»33J Prizes. 44,450
• 4018 Blanks. f
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,450
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftib)i(h
jng UfefulMamifaStures, the fuperintendants of the Pat
erfon Lottery have reguefted the Managers «o offer the
foregoing Sehesie to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to those persons who have pur chafed
in the former Lottery, or exchange the ickets for tickets
ih this Lottery.
The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be seen at the office of William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second-street, who will give information where tick
ets tpay be procured.
17th diy of June, 1796.
J. N GUMMING, ")
JACOB R. HARBENBEK.G, c Managers.
•JONATHAN RHEA, >
A R IS TO CRACY,
An EPIC POEM,
In l Cantes, may be had at B. Davies's Book-Store, No.
$B'High-ftreet. Aug. <9 - .. - ,«fc
—a ■ '
.Lands'-'of the United States '
Trtufury Departmbil, Augufl 3, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN purfuar.ee of an a&of Congress, p*flfe* on the tfth
day of May, 17g6, entitled " An ait providing" for
the sale of the lands of the United .States, in the" Territo
ry north weft of the rlter Ohio; and above the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the fectionso* lots of land'defea
ted in the annexed fchechile, lying in'the fcven ranges of
townfliips, which were'fur'veyed in porfuance of an ordi
nance of Congress, faffed on the twentieth day of May,,
in the year one tkoufand fcven hundred and eighty-five,
will bt exposed for sale at Public vendue, in the town ol
Pittfcurgh MB Pennsylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
October next, and thenceforward, from day to day until
the firft day of December ensuing, Unleft the said lots ihall
be sooner fold, in the manner, and on the terms and con.
ditions herein after mentioned, to wit:
ift. The said fofttons or !at s fliall be fold under the di-
the Governor or Secretary of theWeftern Ter
ritory, -and fuoh, as the President of the United
States may fpeciatly appoint for that pmrpote. ~
ad. The said £e£tion« or lots (hall fce fold to the highest
biddetjbut no sale can be made for lift than two dollars
jer acre of the quantity of l*Hd contained i» such lot or
icdHon.
3. The highest bidder as before mentioned, must depo
sit at the tune of sale, one twentieth part of thepnrc> afe
money, in the liaflds of such person as the President of the
United States shall appoint to attend the sales for that *jr
pof", which will I>«forfeited,if a moiety Of the fofnbtd,
including the paid twentieth part, fliall not be paid within
tkirtydays lrfNV> thetiine of sale.
4th. Upo» payment of a moiety of the purchase money
i» the mann«r before mentioned, the purcltafer wi l be
CWitled to one year s credit fat the remaining moiety;
3(hall rec 'lve from the Governor «r Secretary of the
Western l Territory. and the person who (hill be appointed
>j the President of the Unit: d.States, to dircd the Ciles.a
tgettificate describing th« tot or f.aion puichated.and de
cbririg the sum paid on account, the balance remaining due,
ilc time when such balance becomes payable, and that
«Ik»> hole land therein mentioned, will fee forfeited, if the
said balance is not shV» paid but ;f ihe said] i.ulance fliall
be duly difch&rged.by paying the fame to the Trealurer of
the United States, the purchaser or his afligncc or other
legal rcprefeiitativc, fliall be entitled to a patent for the
said lands, on his producing to the Secretary of State a re
ceipt for such balance endorsed upon the certificate. But
if any purchaser (fell make payment of the whole of the
purchase money, at the time when the payment of the
firft moiety is dire&ed to be made, he will be entitled to a
dcdudlion of ten per centum on the part for which a cre
dit is authorized to be given ; and his patent (hall b<t im
mediately iffucd.
Given tinder my hand at Philadelphia, the day and
year above mentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Trcafury
Schedule of feßiont of town/hips, or fratiioml parts
of to-wnfilps, to be fold at Piltjiurgb. inpurfuanep
of the 6th fcßlon of an all of Congress, p&Jfed on
the I 8(h day of May , }~ (
3 u • n j2 >3 g i
owt: O 2 o -Jo
0 < § O < 2 -6 < °
;s a a
ift Range. 6thTown(hip. 6th Range.
ift To'wnfhip. Ban fi4o|eacb ■ ift-Townfhip.
»8 5 65 14 640 17 3 7°
19 156 95 17 aio 640jeach 18 210
30 150 .75 25336 640 each u 850
34 140 90 BthTown(hip. 166 40
35a36 64oeach 3ai4 64ojeach 23 427
2d i?a2o 640,' each 14 646
19 1 40 23 640 27 151 80
10 170 70 45a30640each jßa3o64oeach
31 185 33*36 64o)each 33 58
21 130 iothTownfliip. 34a36 64oeach
25 488 8c ia2 1640 each 2d Township.
»6a») 640 each' 5414 640 each I liS
28 560 17420 640 each i 4.",Q
29 551 60 23336(640 eack 3 448
30 564 nthiTownfhip. 4 456
31-36 640 .'Sch xai4 64c each '5 464
4thTownihip. G4O each 6 471
19 64 i3a3B|64o t sch 7 140
, 4 th Range.
»6 387 60 lftTown|h; 17420 640 each
27 36 f 23836 640 each
31332 64oeach J° 3 dTowmhip.
« 616 % 6 £ so 470,
34 4+ - ? j ° 34 6,5 1
jthfowi (hip. ldlo «'" (h 'P- t ?02
6 '39 » f\ 6 \ 6 510
12 479 30 3 < e lf 7 3i4 6 4 o'e4ch
*7 3°4 15 o } X 17320 640 each
u Sg
»4 640 } . I Jj
S & »7»iO each • U*
35 3»80 4 S»
ad Range. 17440 640!eath. t
Ift Township. 23436 640 each r I" r u
28 | 7I 20 sthTownfhip. 64c each
34 I 6| 50 iai4]64o|each n!- iC
.3d Townlhip. r7aio|64oleach ' th r ° w,!flll P*
14326 640 each 23436,640' each * f66
28 499 16 7thTownfhip. . ■
29 640 lai 640 each 3
64ciach sa? 640 each 4 s * s b0
4thTown(hip. 12313 640 each { [ 93
XI it 40 iß'al 9 640' each ' ® 01 ,
x» 39? 50 25 640 7"4 64c each
13 51 5© 30836 640 each ' A 4 ® " h
*5 »J 50 ?th'Townfhip. a-°
16 »59 20 I3i4|64c|each ? W " P .'
17 Jl4 i7Me;6 4 ceach *" 4 5 4 °r ac J'
18 64c 23 6 4 o|each
19 63.' UthTownlhip. 4°« c h
10 JB4 80 . xai 4 |64o|t3ch '' ' ° wn , P'
11 63621 17 3201640 each 1 64c each
i»a3664oleaeh 232^6640each I?a " «40, each
jthTownfhip. iJthTownlhip. 6 4 0 each
5 6it iai4|64o)e3ch
6a? 64c each 17420 64deach la ' 4 e ach
23.325 64c each 23a36|64o|each *7>ic 64o|cach
273ZS 64c ;ach ,„ = 23 336 640 each
324-,6'6 4 c ;ach s ii AN ®?' 'J^Towftlhip.
7thTown(hip. '"Township. iai 4 |64olcach
3 16401 18 . J 74 40 i7a2o'64oeach
• BthTownftip 11 8 " 5* i3.i3664<>:€ach
135 640 each 4»7 5° 7 th rTnqs.
6 140 26 « ,fl Townftip
-7 a 14 640 cach " ,01 10
*7320 640 each 17 394 io ?6 j, 3 CI JO ,
43336 64b each 1 * 34 ,2d Tows (hip. ,S
9 thTown(hip. z 9 a 3© 640 each ? 3J
6 640] 3 " • 4
•• '<■>' 3 ° "> 'J"" 1
gass • ■° I v < ;r' ch
43336 <40 each 3 43° 17318 640 each
3d RaTG?. 5 456 '4
2d Township. 6 464 80 10 4^
15 640 7 25® i3 ai 4 640 each
16 600 -8 618
557 jo 64c each 36 y 3 ' 640
41322 640e3ch 17320 64ceach 4 ownfhip.
23 609 23 336 64oleach la^4|6 4 o|eßeh
25 a 3_6l64oeach 4th township. ; , 7 aj °|°4oe3ch
3d Townlhip. 1314 6-40 each . 2 6 4 c[each
9 18860 17320 6 4 0e3A 6 thTown(hip.
10 344 640 each I lal4 |^4 c t- ac h
11 267 6thTown(hip. r 7 a »o|64C each
1* *5* , lai4|64o|each 64 °'" ch
14 20250 17 320(640 each Bth
15 630 23a36|64cLach 1a1 414c eacft
16318640 each BthTowofhip. ;»7 a ac 6 40 each
19 21750 iai 4 l64o|each , 1343 ~1 64, '* ac1j
20 616 75 17320640 -ach llo,hT"wnftlP
-21336 640 each 64c|each I ta *4 &4o|e3ch
4th Township. lothTownfhip. l 7»20 6 40 pch
1 170 1 ai 4 j64ofcach 1 3 a 36164c1e3ch
« 544 i7a2cK 4 oLch lr2thT"w"ft,P
---3 320 23a36164p'ea(4i j lal 4 64"ifaeh
4 45° t2thTown(hip. I 7"* r '4cj-3th
5 12* iai 4 16 4 cle3ch 6 4 cjcach
6 640 i7 a 2c 64c eseh i*4thTownlhip.
7 563 23 *36 640 each 1 1 al 4|6 4 c|each
Ba9 64c each 'i4thTownfhip. J7a2o ( 64o ( each
is 54c 80 i3i 4 l6 4 oieach 1 ." a 3 6 64c each
11 5*F 70 17320 640 each l6 'hTown(hip.
I2ai 4 640; each 23336 640 each 1 ai 4 64oleach
17320 640' each 17320 64o|each
23 *36 640 each.) fl3 a 6 4 oieach
>TOTE.
° f L ?r S !n th « fcTcra ' townfliips be
n,Kw' of the Lot. reserved by the
UntedSutesand also of those formerly fold—The .-g
---gregate quantity,» th e feverai town(h^p , #r fraa;<)n g al
b aiul fur _
P T iCUlar lota or have
been no othciwifc afcertalued than by wlcnlation.
Lands of the United States.
Treasury Department,
vlu&ijl 8, -1796.
Public Notice is hereby given,
TN pursuance of an a& of Congress pal Ted «ii the 18th
day of May. 1796, entitled " an ail providing " for
the sale of the Lands of the United Stater., ill the territory
north-well of the ri.ver Ohio, and above " the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the Quarter T'ownlhips of land
dplcribcd in tire annexed schedule, lying in the feve'n rang
es of t«wn!hip< v. hieh were furveVed in pursuance of »n
ordinance of Congress, pass d on the' twentieth day of
May in the fear one thousand seven hundred and . ighty
flVc, will be exi.ofcd for sale at PUBLIC VENDUE, at
.he Mcrchanfj' CoSeb-Honfc in Philadelphia, on the 4th
Jay of January next, and thenceforward from day today,
until the tenth day of "Fabnury ensuing, unless the said
quarter townships shall be foanar fold, in the manner and
on the tewits and conditions hereinafter mentioned : viz.
ill. The said quarter tcwnfliips (hall be fold to the
bidder, but no sale can,be-roadc for less than two
,4ollars per acre of the quantity of laud contained in such
quarter tovvufliip.
id. The highest bidder as before mentioned, must de
nofit a'the time ef sale, ore twentieth part of the pur
chase money, in the hands of the Treafarrrof the United
States, which wHI be forfeited if a moiet-of the sum bid,
including the said twentieth part, shall r.ot be paid within
thirty daysrffrom the time of sale.
3i. Up»n p:iyn>;nt of a moiety of the purchafc-n-.a
---ney in the manner befor-mentioned, the purchaler will
be entitled to one year's credit for the remaining moiety ;
and Ihall receive a certificate defcribine; the quarter town
ship purchased, and declaring the sum paid on account,
the balance remaining due, the time when such balance
becomes payable, add that tie whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not then
paid [ but it the bid bulap.ee shall be duly discharged, by
paying the Tome to the Trtafurer of the United States,
or his assignee or other legal reprcfentativc,
(hall be entitled to a patent for the said land, on his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State arecoiptfor such balance,
endorsed upon the certificate. But if any purchaser ihall
make payment of the whole of the purchase-money at the
tiifle when the payment of the fir ft moifty is directed to
be made, he "will be tntitledo » dednAjon of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to be
given ; and his patent shall be immediately issued.
GIVEN under ray hand at Philadelphia, the day
' and year abovetnentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury,
SCHEDULE
Of Quarter-Townships to be fold at Philadelphia. in pur
suance of the 6th fe&ion of an aft of Congress paficd on
the 18th day of May, 1796.
"'a,
» « <5
. d. .5- Kg
& ■£ <S X |
C e c p r
s> I * • "o H
05 o r° • b A
u; h f- K %
o _ o •£ v
A ; f < !i
V 2 0 13.,I 3 .,
2 Soatb East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5 120
North Welt' Ji JO - —; ——!
-» ! 20,480
3 j Sooth Eafl 5120
No'th East 5120
South Welt 5120
North Weft 5120
i0,4?0
7 South East j 120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
—< 20,4.80
9 South East 5120
North Eatt j 120
South Weft 5 20 I I
North Weft 5120 j
— 20,480
11 South East Jl2O
Nortli East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft, 5120 '
, , „ 20,480
4 4 .South East 5120
North East 5120
Setrth-Weft ' tiao ■
North Weft 5120
, „ , _ „ 20,480
6 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5,20
8 South East 5120 20,480
North Eatt 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
10 South East j l2o > 20,480
North East Jl4O
So nth Wfftj rt jo
North Wed 5120
12 South 5120 ' 4
North East. Jl2O
South Weft 5x20
North Welt 5120
* 20,480
5 3 »- ou, h East 4.602
North East 4654
5120
North Weft 5120
5 South East' 9 ' 496
North East 5120
South Weft ci 20
North Weft 5120
7 South East 5120 2 °>480
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
6<) South EaftTTT 20 ' 480
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
1 '—" 20,48®
» .2- S'-S
m all
c cu § " *
n 5 i*. o
c 4 £ o j, c H i
> w. 5 Hi ir- I
• 1 *- <2 € a < ■
® a> <£ e *
6H£ • ? w
1/ i; !
. fL± !
! 5 11 South EafijjliO |
f North Eaftjyi2o
Su>ith Wcfllj i 20
North Welt 5 120
— 20,4 So . |
i 13 South East 5120 1
1 Noith Eaft 5120 ' r
South Weft j 120
L Nohh Weft f 120 '
J < 3
a 20,480
6 4 South Ealf 4630
- North East 4620
" South W<<fi 5 r2O
North Weft c 120
1 19,490
ft South East 4730
North Enft47ij
* Souih Weft y 120
' North Weft 5 120
_ 19.58J
e 8 Soilth Eaft 5120
North East j1 20
1 South W,eJ(l t iao
North Weft 5 j 20
| ' —1 — 20,480
iq South Eafiji2c
> North East j 120
' South Weft 5 120 •
jNorth Weft 5 120 j
r ! r —— 20,480
e 12 East 5 120
North East 512°
{ Soiith Weft 5120
North Weft ji2c
. 20,480
14 South Ea/I 51 20
North East 512;
South Well -<2C
3 North Weft 5 12 c
10,480
: 7 3 South Eaf 5120
' Notth East 512 c
South Wef; 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
j South East 5 120
North East 5 120 ,
South Weft 5 120
North Weft j 120
i 20,480
r 7 South East 5120
North Ealtji2oi ¥
South Weft j 120'
North Weft j 120
. - m 2©,+80
9 Sooth East 5 120
North East 5t 20
South Wefl e 120
North We"l* 1 20
• 20,480 J
II South Eaft£l2o
> North East j 1 20 I
South We'll 5 120
North Weft 5120
20,480 ( 1
13 Sout-h F/afijiio
North E»fiji2o "
South Weft 5 1 26
North Weft j,20
20,480
15 South East 5 120
North Eaf! 512s
I South Weff j 120
Wefl 5120
I 20,480 ; I
NOTE
THE quantities of Lands in the fevera! townships be.
fore mentioned, are exclusive of the Sections reserved by
the States. The aggregate quantities in the feve
raltownihips, kavc K'CTrafs«rwttl«,lt>y ; ta» 2w'|pl
the quantities in the quarter ta'A-nfhips, have been no
othorwife afeertainetl than by calculation.
Samuel Richardet,
1) ESPECTtfULLY informs the' Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEE HOUSE in the
city »f Philadelphia.
The Subscription Room will be furnifted with al! the
d*ily papers published in Philadelphia, N;w-Yoik, Bof
to'n, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial citi«s of Europe—They will be rsgubrly filed
and none permitted to be taken away on any account.
rea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of Frcncii Liquors; together with the usual refrefbments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being ateommodated with
the choiccft of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the mod
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries.
The Larder will bcfupplied with the prime and earlicft
produ<Jtions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or fmgle Gentlemen, may be
accommodated with Breakfafls, Dinners, or .'iuppers, at
Honrs moll convenient to themselves—-a cold Collation •'
reg ularly kept for cohveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had
at tha bar.
1 he Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifiied, and
* 'be utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite.
£5" Samuel will behappy'to rrcdvc, aiw
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public • *
large; aMjvith gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himielf that nothing ou his part (hall be wanting topre*
serve that patronage with which he has been so diftinjui" l "
:ngly nonored.
Philadelphia, April 19. C*
To be diipoled of,
npKE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
J- has between fotlr and five years to lervcr: She
Can be recommended for her sobriety andhonefty« F°- r
particulars enquire at No. 13a, Chefnut-ftreet.
Aiiguft 3. atwtf.
PRINTED BY~ JOHN FENJC.
119 —
CHECNU T-iTX EFT.
fjg'Kt W;r: per io3l*».]