v
■ . '' c, ■ f * •
#ajttte./the Unttrtl $>tatts, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser,
n SATURDAT EVENING, NOVEMBER 5, • Illume X. (
Number 1298. J ■ l — r — ————-
" """"~~~~.. .r ODICTHT t Wiiliim Mrt f\l. I CaUtlOn.
J^3T v ~ For New-York,
The Schooner Mary,
Jo fut] Douglafs, mailer ; will fail in a
few days, and take freight very low. A PPjy
Joseph Anthony & Co.
Nor. 3- 6
For Freight or Charter to Europe, or
the Weft-Indies.
jPfqs— The new Brigantine
FAIR AMERICAN,
RiCHARb Callky, Mailer,
"is in compl«at order, and m readiness for receiving
a cargo. She is a handy veflel, and has good accom
inodations for palTengert. Apply to Captain CaUet,
~,1 board said vcffel, laying the upper fide of the Mill-
House wharf, Southwark, or to
Jfaac Harvey, j un.
No. i, So. Water-street-
Ilthmo. ift. (irw-
FOR NORFOLK,
The Brigt. Olive Branch,
Powers Etheridge, Master.
To fail'aboutthe fitii November. For freight, &c. apply to
the captain on bottd, at Walnm-flreet wharf, or to
Philip Nicklin Iff Co.
Oflobcr 31. _____
,£ji jfor Charter,
Ship Dominici Terry,
J af °b De Hart, master : an excellent
SiiC-iiiiilfejiiveffel, of about 3000 barrels burth n.
Jeffe iff Robert Wain.
September gT. d
For (Charter,
The Danish Barque BineventurAj
Samuel Stub, master,
good veflel, of about two hundred
tons, burthen. JP.SSE & ROBERT WALN. «
Sgpt. 17. dtf
FOR LONDON,
The capital (hip CERES,
r CTT®* 0 soon ' —For freight or passage
'j.- to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
ijohn Vaughan,
September to. Front-ilreet.
- rhc Brig M/ ' RT '
Lying at MelTrs. Willing* and Francis's
wharf, burthen 3000 barrels, built in Philadelphia ill 1793
of live oak and red cedar.—She is well found, and may
befent to sea at a small expence. For terms apply to
Gurney iff Smith.
rr Oft. <5. d tf-
Tuft arrived, and will this day be lan
ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at ChefnUt
ftwt wharf.
25 Tons bejl Kiiffia P^
16 Tons old Sable fln IRON, £
,00 Coils'bett Ruflis CORDAGE, afTorted silK,
400 Picces brown Ruirn SHEEIINGS,
100 Bolts Ruflia DUCK,
S4O Pieces Ravens do.
,0 Half-down feather beds, and
A tew pieces affortfd DIA PER.
FOR SALE BY
Joseph Anthony and Co.
s (•" ft—s The above mentioned BRIG
will fill in a few days, and take freight on
"derate terms tor Boston or Salem, for
which or patfage, apply 011 board or as above
Oflober ;1 • d
FOR SALL,
7 HE SHIP MAR Y,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
Twolmndred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, fee will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
October 31. d
For Boston, Newbury-Port and Ports
mouth, New-Hampftiire,
JThe Schooner LIJ^IT,
Daniel Prowfe, ipafter ; will fail in
I IvV t^ c course of a week, and take freight
g on moderate terms, for which, or
» £-35c5551.' passage, apply on board, or to
Joseph Anthony, iff Co.
Oiftober 57. d
For Freight or Charter,
£2-1 The ftiip COMMERCE,
NATHANIEL CURTIS, Master.
Almofta new yefTel, 244 tons burthen, and will
be ready to receive a cargo in a few days. For
--ly./ terms apply on board at Bright's or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
For Sale on board the above Vrjfel,
A quantity of excellent COAL.
Pe: Tons having goods on board, arc earnestly request
ed to fend their permits.
o(sloberai. diot
— —-j__ •
Boarding and Lodging
TVJ'O GENTLEMEN may be accommoda ed with
Boardius and Lodging, in a private family and pleasant
part of thft city. Apply to the Frinter. OS. n. tts
WANTED, ~
As COOK, in a private family, a woman of good ehara&cr
anwho can be well recommended.
Enquire of the Printer.
Q£ioh<*r 31 • ' d yt.
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
Have received per the William Pcnn, in addition to
their own afTorment,
A consignment of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele
jjant London patterns ; also a few cases of hindfome
Buttons —Which \vill be fold at a (hort credit, on very
rcafomble terms, by the package only.
9<ft. dtf
aT*?" For BRISTOL,
the SHIP
PHILADELPHIA,
y;-Theodore Bliss, master.
A new (hip, on her second voyage, with the best
accommodations for paflengers, and is intended to fail
with all expedition. For freight or paflage apply to
the Master on board, or to
Thomas hf John Clifford :
Who have just imported in said vessel, and have for
sale, besides their general afTortment
rf IRONMONGERY,
A quantity of fine arawn and coalmen (harp ana
flat pomt NAILS ; double & single rell'd Sheet Iron;
Iron Pott, Kettles, and Ii;on Weights, of all fizts ; j
London and Bristol Pewter in calks, afTorted ; boxes
of Tin Plates; cases of Men's, Women's and Boys' !
Hats ; crates of earthen and flint Glass Ware ; crates j
of Phials; boxes of Window-Glass ; boxes of long j
and short Pipes; Copper in Sheets ; Oval Qnart Bot
tles in hampers; also, a few casks of bottled Beer, I
and two bales of Superfine Broadcloths and Caffi
meres.
Oiftoker-17. mJtth2w
For SALE or CHARTER,
town The Brigantine LIBERTY,
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Master,
, Now lying at Albertl'on's wliirf—
' she is an excellent veflel, will cariry a
:.^s3Cj^sd^S?>" > b9ut 1300 barrels flour, is completely
found, and ready to receive a cargo. For terms, ap.
ply at No. 149, South rront^ftreet.
. IVhere may be had by the package only,
A small consignment of DRY GOODS, joft re
ceived—consisting of,
Cluak,
Superfine Hairbine, & ?- CAMBLETS.
China J
Crapes,
Corded Poplins,
Sattinet Lasting, Sac.
Also a feiu balei QALCUTIA GOODS, viz.
Guzenths,
Baftas,
CofTaes,
Tickerys,
Punjim Cloths,
Humhums,
Gurrahs,
Black Taffeties,
Barhar,
Pullicat, & £ HANDKERCHIEFS.
Bandanna )
Choppa Roraals,
Patna Chintzes, &c. &e.
Likewil'e a few hhds prime Molafles,
A large quantity of best Rhode-Island Cheese,
50 boxes Spermaceti candles, and
A few barrels Beef.
Oflgber >7.. it *eod 8t
Celebrated New Work.
This Day is Published,
By JOHN ORMROD, No. 41, in Chefnut Street, (four
volumes in two, neatly bound and lettered, price 2
dollars and 50 ceats,)
— TiiLU iimr F R-ON
A PERIODICAL PAPTIt.
By the Rev. SIMON OLIVE-BRANCH, A. M.
Ore teres modico Pallentes radere Mores
HgHuj, et ingenuo culpam dejigere ludo.
AUL, PEKSi
* My business in this State
Made me a Looker-6n here in Vienna ;
Where I have Teen corruption boil and bubble,
Till it o'er lun the flew ; laws for all faults j
But faults lb countenanc'd, that the ftrcng Uatutei
Stand like the forfeits in a barber's (hop,
As much in mock as mark. • ■
Meafurc for Measure.
" It appears from the dedication, that the editor o£ this
publication, is the Rsv. William Roberts, A. M. F. R. S.
Fellow of Corpus Chrifti College, Oxford; and from the
last Hurnber, that the labor, and confequeutly the merit of
hefe papers, have refled with the editor, excepting only
a few contributions particularly mentioned. The editor s
design has been, as he himfelf represents it, " to substitute
the forfaken topics of morality, life, nature, and taste, in
the room of fliallow politics and news-paper philosophy, and
to betray men 1 , under the malk of amusement, into serious
ai)d manly thoughts. This design was laudable, and the
execution was meritorious. As literary produflions, these
periodical papers are entitled to diftin&ion ; but their high
est praise is, that they are throughout calculated to pro
mote virtue and good manners."
Analytical Review.
Lately Publijhed by J. Ormrod,
Condorcet on the progress of the human mind, 7/6,
Miss Williams' Letters from France, 4/8; Visit for a
Week, </7 1-2 t Brown on the natural equality of
men, 4/8 ; Life of God in the Soul of Man, ify ;
Aikin s Letters to his Son. * 9/4 1-1 j Homer's liiid
by Pope, 776; Hayley's Triumphs of Temper, with
plates, t/5; M'Ewen 011 the Types, 5/7 1-2; Select
Psalms and Hymns for Youth, 1/4 i-j ; Barke's ce
lebrated Letter to the Duke of Bedford, 1/10 ij;
Wharton's Answer to Priestly, 1/10 1-2 ; Watson's
Answer to Paine, 279 1-2 ; Watson's Answer to Gib
bon: 1/10 l>2; Cullep's Pradice, 2 vols, 30/; Bay
ley on the Dock Fever of NeW-York, 7/6 ; Wetfter'3
Colleflion on the Yellow Fever, 7/#; Chaptal's Che
mistry, 3 vols, in r, zi/6 ; President's Address, ltd:
Poem on do. sd. 1-2; British, Algerine and Spanish
1 Treaties, ratified, 4/4 1-2; Travels of Cyrus, French
and Engiiih, 2 vols. 15/; Win erbotham's History of
China, 2 vols. 15/; Winterbotham's Hijlo-ry of Chi
na, 2 vols. nf(, —&e. &c.
Noy - 3■ d6t
— 1 '* 1 —— <i. .i 1.1 > ,i
Just Imported,
In the ichoouer Lucy, Capt. Prows, from Maderia,
and to he fold by ,
ELLISTON iff JOHN PEROT,
Bell London particular Madeira Wine,
Three years old,
In pipes, hogsheads, and quarter casks, fit for im
mediate use.—They have also for file,
A few bags of Juniper Berries.
oa ° hfr;!i - wfcs 4 w
At No. §3,' N. Seventh-street,
Four Gentlemen may he actommodated with
Boarding and Lodzinv.
November 1. #
3
William Gardner, No. 62,
SOUTH FRONT-STREET,
1 Has received by the late arrivals from Liverpool
and Glafscow,
An ajfortment of DR2 GOODS,
' Which he will dispose of upon low termi, for (jafh
' or the usual credit, by the piece or package—
Conftfling of
CA MB RICKS, Printed Cali<roes and Chintzes
Printed Handkerchiefs and Shawls
Jacooet *uu EpA Mulling, well assorted
D„, '• do 'ambotared dd.
Do. do. Handk's and Shawls do.
White and cofoured.lhre.d4
; "Diaper and diaper table doths
Cotton elieck and check handkerchiefs
Striped audicolotired nankeens
. j Dimities aud cjutltings
I Tapes and garters.
• Cotton counterpanes
Mens and womens gloves
Plats and (lockings
Ofnaburgs, bed-ticks and browo Hollaed
Stationary, Bcc. &c. &c.
November 3. tnts
Imported in the arrivals,
And to be Sold by
JACOB PARKE,
No. 49, North fide of High-street, Philadelphia,
A GENERAL ASSOtifMENT Of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c.
AMOKGST WHICH ARE
SMlTHS'Anvjis, Vices, and Files; Saw mill, Cross
cut, Hand, and other Saws; Carpenters' Planes, Chiiels,
and other Tools; Carving Chisels and Gouges; Locks,
Hinges, Bolts and Latches; Nails, Sprigs, Tacks, and
Screws; Frying-Pahs; Smoothjng-Irons; Shovels and
Tongs; Coffee Mills; Candlafticks; Snuffers; Warmiqg-
Pans; Table liini ves and Forks; Riding Whips ; Bar
low Pen, and other Pocket Knivas; Razors; Sciffars;
Needles; Ivory add Horn Cctobs j belt Kirby Fife
Hooks; brass Cabinet Furniture; Waggon Boxes; Sheet
Brd»fs j plated and tin'd Bridle Bits and Stirrups; itto
£>a die Nails; Girth and Straining Webbs; —with moll
kinds of Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, Brass Wares,
Sec. Sk.
o>slelier 14. mwf6w
A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS.
John Miller, jun. & Co.
Exclusive of their own Importation now opening,
Have received by the William Penn, Caroline and Diana
CONSIGNMENTS,
Which comprize a capital aflbrtment to open a
Dry Goods Store.
—Amongst them are—
Cofcimon, fupef and fuperfine Cloths,
Plain, twili'd and (trip'd
Baizes and Flannels,
Point, role and dufFil Blaiilcets,
Plain and pun tea Caffimerei,
Swanfdowns,
Printeid Calicoes,
Scotch Threads,
Hofierv. —
rney win Tie rold cither ifi er ffi part 7 by the
package, on terms which render them an worthy of
atteaiion to purchasers. dtf Ovt. 21.
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8, CUESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late vessels fram Europe, Bcc.
AND HAVE LOR SALE,
A general affortnaent of GOODS, suitable to die season—
Aruongft which are,
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
Plain and twili'd COATINGS,
Rose ftripea and point BLANKETS,
FLANNELS and B AISES, 1
HATS assorted in cases,
IRISH LINENS,
INDIA GOODS, generally,
A Consigned Invoice of IRONMONGERY,
Cortiprifing a capital alTortment to open aftore—inclu
ding Thirty Ca<ks of NAILH. This invoice will be fold
entire on very advantageous terms.
September 40. d
For Sale,
By Jehu HollingpiuDrth, Iff Co.
2$ hhds. Well-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
5 Barrels best Indigo, and,
A fewthoafand bu!te!s of Turk's lfland fait. I
Oft- 17- d.
Country Rum,
And a few pip& of Vinegar,
For Sale by
Ezekiel Hall,
At the (lores of Mr. Edward Stow, jun. No. 4, South
Water-ftr Odtober to. d
For Sale,
AThree-flory BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second ftl-eets, in which
Mcffrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on bulinefs.
Poffefiion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April 11.
For Sale,
This Landing from on board tie Jhip Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Amjicrdum,
Gin, in pipes
Empty Gin Cases
Hock in cases of 4 doz.
Glass 1 umblers in chcfts
Sweet Oil ill Safes
Patte Graffe Cheese in boxes; Wc.
Atfo Landing by the Louisa, Capt, Be/l, from UJbon,
60 Quarter-calks Lifton Wine".|
On Hand,
A quantity of Brandy, Hazlt-Nuts in facts, &c.
Peter Blight.
Oflober *7- • dlweolw
Washington Lottery.
The 34th and 35 th days' drawitig of the Wafhirgton
Lottery, No. z, are received at the office No. 434, Mar
ket-itrcet, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
November 3, 1796. 4
"
<
Caution.
The following NOTES have been STOLEN from
,] the fubfcriber,.on the evening nl the ult. all per
sons are hereby forewarned from receiving the fame.
One, Robert Morris to John Nicholion, dated March
3d, 1795, and payable April 8, 1796, for dollars
h 823. 93*
And one John Nicholfon to Robert Morns, dated
and payable as above, and for the feme sum.
The above notes with other papers were contained in
a Green Morocco covered almanack, and were lloleri
with a quantity of clothing, from the piazza of the sub
scriber. The clothing conifted of one drab coloured
gfeatcoat, 1 do. clof* coat, 1 dark mixture do. 1 olive
mixture do. 1 brown silk morning gown, 1 old bfeck
fllk cloak, t child's great coat, coating, 1 do. cloak,
cloth.
A handsome reward will be given for the Pockel
Book and papers, by
"James Todd,
No- afii. So. Front t
nth mo. 2d. w
Imported in the late arrh'-tls from Europe and tbc
Weft- dies,
Holland Gin, iv. pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Jtum
Martinique Molaflis, in hogibeads
Choice old Liibon Wirre, in pipts and quarter-cafki
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and quarter-calks
Malmsey Madeira Win«, in pipe's and quarter-casks
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes
Russia & Flemilh Sheeting and Ravens Dusk, in cafe*
Window Glass, 3 by 10, in boxes
Coffee Mills and Straw n casks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
AlsO, an hand,
9j A few chtfts of Bohea Tea ; Jcfuits Bark ; Aflafot
-9) tida ahd Tapioca; and a few bales of Coffaes,
d Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
d chiefs, and a complete aifortnient of 5-4 and 6-4
Boulting Cloths.
For Sale by
,• Pragers iff Co.
Oilober lo dzwm&rhim .
» L A ND I N G,
. Out of different vrjfels from England, and for sale
by the fubjcrilers on reasonable terms,
Superfine and common cloths, and caflimers
Ribbed and llriped do. do.
Blankets, mottled green and silk rugs.
Superfine blue, Claret, arid cemmoi; coatings,
Kerseys, Bear-lkins, plains and Halfthicks,
Swauficins, Serges and Flannels,
firitifh Ingrain Carpeting,
HatsalTorted in cases of 1 2 doz. each. -
1 Chocolate chintzes, printed Caltieoes and Handkerchiefs.
Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Silail, , —
Yarn, Worded, and Cotton hofiery_,.^, 3) & c . &c.
Beavers, a s a superior quality,
fa. acfy'iod lid. 2od. nails, and frying pans,
An afforcmerit of Ironmongerry, Cutlery and a vaf'Ufy
of India cotton, and silk gouds. • /
Thomas iff "JoJhua Fijher.
No. 5, Dock-fttrett.
Also by the' Glasgow frdm Dublin,
1-a and 4-4 Irilh Linens affortedin boxes of 30 piece«,
do. Brown, Glazed Linnem
c OA- 17. dtf.
f —-—
Just Arrived,
By the Fly, Captain Hubber, from London,
Double racked, Brown Stout-PoRTER,
in hogiheads.
• Painters' Colours, in l-a and 1-4 ewt. kegs, packed in
hogsheads.
. Copperas in hoglheads.
Whiting, &c. For Sale by
Peter Blight.
Oiftober 35. i dxttsaw
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alieant and Lis
bon, landing at the fubferibers wharf—
r8 Pipes of Brandy
" 18 Bales of Spaniih wool
* 3 ilo. of Annifeed
jooo Bulhels of best Lisbon Salt
80 Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO, >
Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
received by the fbip Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart,
. from Kingston.
Se frt- 13. d
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo ef thefhip Gafjges, capt. Tingey, from Cat*
cUtta and Bengal*
consisting or
A Large and general aflortment of Bengal and Madra*
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
i AMONG WHICH ARE
. A variety fine worked arid plain Mit/lim,
Doreas, life. Also,
t A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
1 In boxes and bags—and , BLACK PEPPER,
1 For Sale by
Willings iff Francis,
No. a 1 Penn Street.
• Tync 8 §
For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER iff Co.
, An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from 1 2 inch catiles down
to rope of a inches, of different lengths: Imported ia
the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Se P ; - 27. dtf
For Sale,
Carolina Rice in whole and half tierces,
' Cotton of Cayenne and Trinidad,
Soal Leather, entitled to dfawback,
Bodon Beef, and ,
Mould and dipt candles.—Apply to
lfaac Harvey, jun.
No. 5, South Water-street,
toth mo. 17. d3w<
~ ' -? -
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the best quality and on reasonable terms,
FOR SALE fir
Philip Nicklin iff Co.
A«guiia6i dtf
1✓
UIV. FAN'iHEON,
And fUCJCETTs's A WPHrt-lIEATRE,
for Eq'aeftriaji and Stage performances, Corner ot '
Chefnut and Sixth streets
THIS EVENING, Saturday, November 5, 1
Mr. Ricketts refpeiflfully informs the public, that
in order to make the amusements of the Pantheon as
plealing a? pofljblei he has engifjen forr.e eminent per
formers' from Aftley's jinphitheatce and the royal
circus, London, one of ~vhom,
Majler Franklin, o years old,
Will perform several jPleafing Feats
in Hort'emanfhip.
"To which will be added, a Comie Ballet Dance, un
der the direflion of Mr. During, called
The Two Huntlmen ;
Or, Ihe Death of the Bear.
Gillot, Mr. Durang
Cul'6, Mr. Sully
Liwycr, Mr. Su ly
Country Girl, Mrs. Tompkins
Mrs. Durang.
To conclude with a Pas De Trots.
Eqiiestrian Exercises.
In particular, for this night,
IMr. Ricketts will go thro' the Manual
Exercise, on horseback,
, (The horse in fuil speed)
Drefled a3 an American Officer.
With other performances by the reft of the company
too tedious for insertion.
And, by particular desire, (for this right only)
The splendid and favorite Pantomime of
Don Joan ;
Or, The Libertine Deftxoyed.
Under the of Mr. Sully.
In the courfeof the Pantomime will be introduced the
favorite song of
« WHITHER MY LOVE,"
By Miss Robinson.
Sale by Au&ion.
To be fold on Saturday evening the sth of November, at
7 o'clock, P. M. at the Merchants' Coffee House.
TWO three story brick honfei with convenient kitchens
north fide of Marktt,between Seventh andEighth-ftreets,
each house with the priviledge of an alley is 16 I-i feet
front ; the lot is 150 in depth »
One two story brick house in Za*e-ftreet, commonly
called Sugar alley, jfhe house is 16 1-1 fe«t front, on said
alley, with a good kitchen ; the lot is go feet in djpth.
One vaca.it lot,adjoining the said house, in Zane-ftreet,
16 i-i feet front, and 90 fe«t-dotp ; at the end of 90 feet
the said lot widens 33 feet, and runs back of the Marke' ,
street lots 111 feet. 33 feet wide.
One two story jriek house and kitchen in Zane-flieet;
16 1-2 feet front; the lot 45 feet in depth.
45 acres of excellent meadow land in Greenwich,
which wtll he fold either by small pafcels or 11 acre lots.
50 tons of excellent upland hay. Enquire of
HENRY SECKEL,
, * GEORGE COOPFR,
HENRY SHE \FF,
-ABRAHAM WILT, or
OAob«r 19. T7 ' w Auctioneer.
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by the late arrivals,
A IVell Selected Assortment of
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, an the very
lowed ferms j
Amongjl which ire
Some elegant 4-4 arid 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Diyo Foi'niture ditto
Ditto Dimity
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslins
Ditto in Gold anri Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
Mantuas of the firft quality
Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, afTorted
Jrifh Linens, very fine, ar.d Table Linen»
Marfeillcs and Cotton Counterpanes
Rose Blankets aflbrted—See. <3cc.
06lober a 6. d
' 'OLD
London Particular Madeira Wine,
In pipes, hoglheads and quarter-caflcs,
L»nding this day at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, and .
for fa!e by 1
Joseph Anthony & Co. j
Nov. 1. d
Befl Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbls.
47 bbla. prime Coffee, '
Bed Boston Beef, 1
Codfifh in hds. I
Spermaceti Candles, '
Spermaceti, and 1 _, _
Northern J OIL.. ,
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior 1
qtftli'y. ' <
A Few boxes excellent brown soap, 1
6 Pales of Corks. i
/.o Pipes excellent Lisbon Wine. 1
A few sacks of Feathers. J
A few bales India Muslins. ,
FOR SALE BT t
JOSEPH ANTHONY, h Co. «
Oflober 31. <j [
This Day is Publifhed7 '
And ibid by IOHN ORMROD, No. 41 Chefnut-ftreet, '
C Price one ftxteenth of a Dollar.)
A P O£ M [
Onre-.ding the President's Address,
WITH A SKETCH OF THE '
CHARACTER of A CANDIDATE, c
r 0 r t a e ''
PRESIDENCY. | n
This elegant little Poem is printed in a form to be bound ' V
-with the President's farewelUddrefs,lately published by , J
John OrmroJ. ¥ ,
November 1.
Washington Lottery. d
The J4th and 3jth Day. Drawing are arrived at the "cl
office No. i47> Cbrfnut-llrett. r
Pnaes in th. above Lottery are exchanged for tickew
warranted undrawn fa
3. tti 4 te
%
The following judicious and candid analylis of
it t( A Defence of the American Constitutions, by John
Adams," is earnestly recommended to the considera
tion of the Eledlors, generally.
it ~
< For the GAZETTE of the Unitfd States.
j1 SHORT VINDICATION OF
Mr. Ad • ns's
" .Defence of America;, Constitutions."
There never wis r rary work so much
»- talked of, I'd so lit til" this part of the
Union, as Mr 4< - of our Conjlilu
t'tortt.— Lcl.-imk' r.d men judge of
v a merits ami >t» 4vfe&* b'» a •envierate pcrufal.
Let every in (low ■ trie ctoce Ik- pafies
sentence—is 1 jud To \niri iviflieut
the conjtn jii im i. «.!• j- V, >i any man lhall,
without having, f ei- ' eoutjfirtination ot
this work, a.id of'tou the charaSer ot on&
of the eartieft and moll ironui men of our
revolution ! Let the man of harity refumc his in
estimable principle—and hefore he condemns such
ll a tharafter, read the work.
As far as I am capable of judging, the follow
ing appears to my 'mind, a (hort outline of his
main do&rine, in tRe " Defence of our Constitu
tions''—He calls his work a defence of our free
governments and it 19 so. These governments were
censured by a M. Turgot,of France, because they
had a.legislature of two branches—and an ii;de
pendent executive. He charged upon those who
formed them, too servile an imitation of the En
glish constitution. Mr. Adams had heard ef ihe
| le intended views of-a faction in Maflachufetts to in
troduce monfienr Turcot's theory there ; —to abo
lilh their separate executive, and their senate—and
wrote this hook, Vol. I, to prevent this anarchy.
_ Before he finifhed his volume an infurre&nn had
a£tuallj taken place tn Maflachufetts, (1786) the
objetft ef v»hich was to establish one supreme body
at to govern the Hate. The anarchists were then, as
they have since been throughout the Union, de
ns frated. In orderto vindicate the established repub
ts, lican forms of three branches, each branch having
ct a negative, Mr. Adams was led to review the, fe
,l veral governments in Europe, wherein the people
.id had any (hate. He and every man in America
knew that we not only imitated the parts of the
et > English government which were proper to be a
dopted here, to wit, a feparatiotv of the different
power* of government into three branches, the
t; complete independence of the judiciary ; —a bill
of rights ; —the haieas corpus, arid the inettimable
*» trial by jury; but alio continued in France the
Cs - English (latutes-that had been heretofore adopted,
and the common law of England. These princi
ples of public policy were adopted at thefametime
that wc wifely reeded the name, and political cha
racter, of a king ; —a hereditary senate or nobi-
I'tv : and a bench of biftops —The Enelilh »o
- vernment wa, ai and ha(! ten for
ages, the only one in. Europe wherein the people
had a (hare, and in which was to be found the
principle that we had aSually adopted, vis. iS, e di
vision of the powers of government into the one—
people, with a Negative on each—His work was
r particularly 3 'defence «f the principal outlines of
the government of this slate, where we have a go
w v ernor a senate, elofled for five years by eledtors
—and a house of delegate., chosen by the people
immediately.
In the vindication of f„»h a political form, and
ot such imitations and adoptions from the Englifo
government and civil system, Mr. Adams was u»der
a neceffi-y.f vindicating the Englifl, gove.nme.K,
as tar as it bore a companfon with any at that
time in Europe. Wherever his companfon takes
pl ie between that and those conations which he
was then defending, we alway., in every instance,
_ hnd that he 18 exulnsgly in f a v or of the free confti.
tutions of America, and adjudges the palm of glo
ry to them no: because they are called republics : .
' * Pame the most tyrannical gUvern
men's at thu day in Europe ; but because ths fieo- 1
pU weredually foreign and free ;_becaufe they <
ch«fe their own governors, re J. ,
fenttt,vc, annually ; and because there were no here■ 1
r y honors, titles, offices er diJlinSiont ; and the <
powers of government were catefujly divided.— >1
Vid. I vol. 95 6.
No where doe, he even inGnuate, that we .ught J
nohi ? H a l y , firft m, e iftratts > or kings, or 1
5 J" H ,'f wi,ole bt>ok «'•» written for the pur .
pose of luardmg againjl a state of thi.g,, w Lh i
might give birth to such charter, in slates !
!nd d r e ent r " lto lhc histor y of cvernments,
vKf,d t Pe 'rV " RftitUC " t ft/itics «f every c
ir vil,fed and wealthy society. He fh»w, ,he daLer ■
.* , tree government becoming arifocratical h„
pointing sut this truth, that ia every fo.ietv, which
L'JtV f: .J'Zf,
'. c ' ""qv* ! 't'es of condition— fotne rieh feme 1
indigent; some famous, others obfeure • that some
;
ngh" " .Key in r ob h '
and other governßeat,, where ihefe mutual checks ff
and balances of power did not cxift. The Enirlirti
constitution, in theory, has certain checks, which n
z monarchy, have certainly raa de it one of t U ti
,! vfz [Tine E ::n ? ut iu checks and baiant «.
; "e. ?IXIS Mr ; Ada - a
It 1 ' [;
,7 "J* /,h ma S\ft rat es hereditary •hZ
great prcpn.ty. Can language be aore expli,,V» p
Heth,nk3 anygovern.ent wiihout our checks a ,)
* J1
''■ • • '
! one free republic. The -attire and qa.ii;>y ■»■ •
( arcby be would populate (if fuel: « ,
° used) into a chief raagiftrate, like a president o. t e
,B United States, with a veto; hut obftrves, he would .
•a- have him deßbe.—And that he is a friend to fre
quent and popular elections, fee page 311 39* (
to this mngillrate, he would give the executtvipewr. .
Thus it is jiven in one unrivalled federal ccnftttvtion.
Again, he° would cVec-k tMs firit magiltrate— the 1
monarchy feauite or quality, and the rtprefcnlatrjes, '
the democratic part, by the aristocratic quality of .
society, in a senate Here he differs from the Bntifh 1
*' euiogift, because he would not have this senate a he
reditary body. Again, he would have the third
:h branch of government a house of delegates, imrr.e-. 1
lie diatelychofen by the people, to check the natural
u- aristocracy, and the executive. He defends the free <
of governments of his country in so doing ; & proud
,l. ]y exults in the fuperioiity of her forms, over those
es of every country, inckidittg_tbe constitution of Eng
ut land.
11, This appears, to my mind, the principal outline
of of his work. Those among my young country- 1
na men, whose education deft ines them to learned re
ur fle&ipn, and probably to public ftatioiu will find, 1
n- in this work, a clue to guide both to political know
:h ledge, and to the pra&ice of virtuous sentiment :
they will find, too, that this learned and able llatef
w- man, no where fabftitutes an audacious phihfphy,
119 in,the placf of religion■
u- I appeal to federal men—is not tTiis attack on
ee the work of the man whom the federal party, <he
re lovers of eur constitution, and the fricßds to the
ey treasures of our government, brought forward as '
I'e a candidate, any thing more than a continuation of
ho that holtile spirit to the government, has al- I
n- ways distinguished the southern faction, Jtmore par
he tic.ularly the slate of Virginia? In what papers do
In- you find the moll virulent attacks upon Mr. Adi'iru ?, I
10. In the precious Aurora of Mr. Bache, from whirk *
nd the filler Telegraphe, of Baltimore, interchanges its 1
y. signs and. motions of ießiiioH, upon all occafioris.
ad A letter is propagated in the latter, from the for- 1
be m<r, said to be from Thomas Paine, relative to Mr.
ij Adams.—There is the higlieil probability that the 1
as whole is fabricated, or grounded in egregious mis- 1
lc- representation. 7 lie probability is, that Thomas
b- never enjoyed a single confidential coftverfation with ;
ng Mr. Adams in his life. He was a ready writet, '
fe- and did us-I'ervice by his pen, in '76 : but 1 no 1
>lc more believe that Mr. Adams bad the conversation, 1
ca afTerted with Paine, than Ido the stroke of politics '•
he that was propagated, so industriously, about two i
1. years since, by a member of congress, viz. that '
nt Mr. Adams had said, among a few fenatora, in the '
he senate-chamber, that our government would never
lill do, till we had an hereditary firft magistrate, and '
>le senate. This story, 011 inquiry, turned out to be '
he a falfehood, or a gross mistake, " flock and block
d, It is not to be wondered at, that those writers,
ci- who have so long oppofrd and vilified the conjlitulioti,
ne which is the checked and balanced government that '
1a- Mr. Adams- so much admires; and the President, '
si- together with his measures of government, which
o are perpetually abused by Bache, (as they were by i
or hi« ptedeceffor, Freneau, who, while he was one of '
»le Mr. Jefferfon's canJUentiaLclerks, was the editor of
he one of the moll virulent and antifederal papers in the *
li- union, the National Gazette) it is not furprifir.g '
— that those writers,.and men of the fame complec- '
tiaii fhopld Daw auy—.,..ihfrrt- '
si ITJppporters ot our prefect incftimable constitution !
as Are they not the fame meu who have kept this
of countiy on the veige of war for three years past ?
0- and who have uniformly opposed and vilified every '
>rs measure which the President adopted to avoid war? «
lie Arc they not the fame men who lately oppofeH
the treaty ? Look at them—hear their names—»(k ,
id their party !—You will know themjo be the fame si
(h men, with unchanged minds, and unaltered views. C
er The only pieces I hive seen against Mr. Adam's. a
it, are two—the one alluded to in the Tclegraphe, and
!t some references to Mr. book, in a late Bal
es timore paper, {Tid to be taken from a Bolton hand- ~
ie bill. The references are either designedly or unin.
e, tentionaijy inaccurate, or mifnndtrflocd by him who
1- made tbem. It is to be lamented, that great na
il- tion, ir| the moment of exerting one of the proud- fa
; ell and'molt splendid of its rights— a nation thatde- _
1- lerves, from its moral excellence, long to enjoy this
J- unexampled excrcife of y« sovereignty, the eledlion
y , ot ,ts c h 'ef magistrate, ft >uld be insulted in the \\
f- moment of its eiioiee, by the wantonnefs of malice I;.
f- or the taunts of the fediiious. Let us /how the' m
ie world of kings, that the freemen of America de- dl
ierve this happy exemption from arbitrary rule "
And let 1 manly h. d elevated contempt of all elec- ft,
•r would not be browbeaten by foreign power, are th
. " n ° t f , t " be drce ' vc,i «jol.d by domettic tricksters, I
f I r' Whcu their „,obe w
i. moa nobly exerted UNION 'nf
1, Ealtern Shpre, Maryland, '
i- 26th O<Sober, 1796. pa
x gag——--
y- PARis; August 39 . v f
, tl r „ . *f Germany.
S Ihe following plan has been submitted to the '
e French Government, for revolutionizing Germany «
at .he conclusion of general peace : ,
ceror T "'f nO , German!c Empire, no Em- th.
. F er °r, aid cohfcquently no Eledors. a]
3 1. Auftiia and Prussia shall have no m«,r f t! "
: I
title r' L«ch of Which shall bear a -
title, foch for .nttance „ that of Grand Duchy
' a federal ultxr If r" W ' th ** ch olher
: »» f,„« ;F Jh"Cut
such as free ImS" • of tholc diftricls,
p "'n«s, (hall bet- Clt a ß ' Provrncia l States and
deration CQnftltUent P««' this Fe
which fhalfbc fupprcLd f WerS '
;oy th« r rcvenue , for lifc ; the .
V
»" cities fee Inrflefffw*, r« Jikewlfe thcf&rr'
3t for lhe4ar.iili.-5 whicii fullered too much by
le vuges of this vrar, fucti as the tw 0 Pa!stine h 6 ' 3 "
Id of Deuxponts and Bavaria, the drano/- "
e- 8. Prnflkt ftlall tenounce
5. coma, and reie.ve ■„ exchange , "°-
r. ccrs on tiTr territories. . uur
n. 9 Tlie Pruflian pafieffions i n WtM, t
le the Bifhopricks of Ofnaburg, Paterborn 'an,}
t, of the Eleaorate of Hanover, shall form a '., p3 ' L '
of dage to the elder Branch of the House of
(h fwick. I'
ic. Provision shall also.tie made for emichi
rd patrimony of the Duke of Meckfenburc Iu
e- different branches of the house of Anhalt'
al 11. The extent of the territories of t'hr P •
ce of Hesse CasTes, Daimlladt, &c. Ihall a ls o h'""*
J- Urged. btf cn -;
fe September 18. I
t. General Buonaparte has authored 0 «r minittA
at Rome, to figmfj to the Neapolitan m ; X
le Acton, that if the Nopolitan troops ii,v „'„ ./
y- territory of the pope, he will ordei a div.f.on 'f
e- his army to march to the defence of his huliaefs'
J, dominions. Eighteen- thoufanri men arf alread'
v- preparing to. march towards Bologna. Th- j
. ; apolitans were at Ponte Corvo to the number si
f. 3,000. It is feared that another column will march M
y, to the Romagna The heapolitans replied -hat I
they took thtfe precautions merely to picvcn ' t )
:n lertion. Tl^ishowever is but an excuse. /
ie September 19. ' ' '
,e The change which we have announced is deeid •
as ed : Jourdan goes to the army cf the north, and'
of Bournonville will take '.he command of the '<4 «
bre and Meufe. ~, ,B *
r They write from Nantes, of the 22d Fi "'Jor
!o (September 8) that the squadron under" Richety
if lad entered she port of Brett, with four Spawfh
■y f)lips, which had not left them since th« : r failing
t8 fiom Cadiz. S
s . In JL'Etiair of the 18th also, there is ait'article
r . from BrutTels, of the 28th Fruftidor (September
r. 14). wbigh (late _that.general Jourdan was in full,
,e ret re-; tat all points —The siege of Menu h ag been
f. raised.
„ Several corps of the army of the Sambre and '
h Meufe are already fallen bat kto Neuwied. All the
if kaggatfe of 'he army is psffing the Rhine in the
,o trfmofbdifordei . The confwfion is such as never
, n was known. The baggage of Jourdan is arrived
at Coblenfz. All the roads arc covered with wag.
■o gons, filled with wounded, which tkey fend to the
,t left bank of the Rhine. The general of division
;e Bcrnadotte, is of thetitimber.
• r P. S. Werire assured at this inflam, that the
!{ ) head-quarters of Jourdan's- army have been traat
)e ferjed to the left bank of the Rhine.
>j • »
B) LONDON, September 25.
The lord chancellor yesterday had the king's or* I
lt deri to prepare a commifiion for afiembling both J
t) house* of parliament on Ttiefday next.
h The fubferibers to the second loan this day made
y good their payment of 151. per cent, on the whole
of that capital at the bank.
jf On VVednefday earl Macartney kifled the king's j
le hand on being appointed governor of the Cape-of*
t Good-Hope j as did Sylyefter Douglas, Esq. ca
being appointed deputy-governor.
T Ob TUESDAY EVENING, the Bth inih
"? Will be Sold,
dt the Merchant't ~
\ The Schooner Lucy,
H ?" ow ] >" n S at Cbefnut-flreet wharf; a fine, (tout
' buiit vefiel, one hundred and sixteen tons burthen; in
every refpe<St well found, and lhay be sent to fra at a
e frnall exper.ee—the inventory may be fees at
Compting-Houfe of the fubforibers, or at Footmaa
i, and Co. auctioneers.
J Joseph Anthony Co.
- Nov. 5: d
; SALTPETRE.
A hrpe quantity «f Double-Refined Salt fttre for
sale at No. 15, South Third-flreet.
November dtf
s to be Sold,
1 A LOT ef GROUND, 164 feot 7 inchei front on South
: Water-street, and bounding on the Delaware aboct the
, Tame width, with a whari thereon in good repair. On the
north fide adjoining l"un alley, is a large and well built -
dwelling hoafe, and cnumii«g house, communicating with
each other, 47 feet wide, a l'pacio u kitchen, and other
well planned accommodation!, and below theft a flack of
■ (lores, 6i feet in front, by 93 feet in length, built a few
1 years ago ;on the remainder of the lot on Water-llrect,
there are two ancient brick dwellings, a Cooper's Ihop, k
a frame store, now occupied by Mr. AlexJrtiier Tod, and
' bounds adjoining the stores of the heirs of the late Joft*j>i
Wharton. It will he better described by drafts and pans
of the ground, and buildings, to be teen at JOHN' V. 11.-
COCKVs compting house, on the prersifes, and of whom
particnlars of sale may be obtained.
The whole will be fold together, or detached a« may
bell suit the purchaser. Nov. j _5_
" " No. 153.
D'rftrift of Pennsylvania, to wit- ■
BE it remembered, that on the twenty-fourth day of
September, in the twenty-firft year of the independente
of the United States of America, William Cothf" of
the said diftricl hath deposited in this office the Title of
a Book, the right %vhcreof he claims as proprietor, m
the words following, to wit.
" The Political Censor, or Review of the mod
" refling political occurrence! relative to the UriitedStates
"of America—By Peter Porcupine"—ln conformity 1
the A3 of the Congress of the United States, intitule" ,
"An A<X for the encouragement of learning by
the Copies of Maps, Chaits and Books to the antho"
and proprietors of such Copies, during 'he tinw* fi *ror
mentioned." SAMUEL CALDWELL,_CIerV
Diilri.'l PennO/lvjnia. _
A few Pipes of WINE,
Imported in the brig I ; A\'il-, from Madeira, to be fold
by MORD EC A I LEWIS,
Who h?.s alio to 4ifpofe of on rcafonable ttrvat,
)KISH LINENS, wcllafforted
BAND ANN A'HANDKERCHIEFS
WIDE NANKEENS
COSSAS AND BAFTAS
RAVENS DUCK
DIM'ERS
QUICK SILVER " •
CfilNA mt
ROLL liRIMSTONE, See.
Oter i 7. ni
' K!Philadelphia,
SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER J, 179*-
By an arrival at Norfolk from London news is
received that Moreau W4B preparing to attack the
archduke in his rear.
Extradt of a letter from Baltimore, dated Nov. 3-
<• This evening, a (hip, after a short pa!pige_from
Bristol in England, has arrived here. It is said (he
brings news very unfavourable for the French.—
The particulars 1 cannot learn ; but it seems they
have been beaten in all quarters."
At an Eteftian held yefterdsy, at the State-house
in this city, for fifteen persons, as Eledtors of a
President and Vice President of the United States, ,
the following tren'Jemen were chosen by the cits- ,
zens of Philad.-lp! ia, Paflynnk, Moyamenfing, ,
Blockley, and : 1
Thomas M'Kean John Wht'tehill ,
Jacob Morgan William Irwin (
James Boyd Abraham Smith j
Jonas Hartzell William Brown ,
Peter Muhlenberg John Piper I
Joseph Heifter John Smilie I
William M'Clay James Edgar (
James Hanna
In the city and townships, the votes were, ,
For the above ticket, t
For the other ticket, " legi. ,
Majority 645.
As a joint meeting of the Council and Aflembly of j
New-Jersey, on the 3d instant, the following ap- j
pointments were made. c
John Rutheifurd, re-eledted Senator of the Uni- j
ted States. f
Jamts Kinfcy, re-eledted Chief Justice. f
Joseph Bloomfield, Major General of the firft di- ;
vision of militia, vice Major General Ellis, deceased,
Franklin Davenport, Bnjgadier General, vice {
. Bloomfield, promoted. c
Joseph M'llvaiiie, Clerk of the Pleas and Peace r
ef Burlington. r
Extrall of a Letter. L
1 anticipate with great pleasure the profpedt of t
fucccfs which you inform me attends our eledti f
oneering.—What a tcene will open in the new order '> h
of things, whicK will undoubtedly take place on the si
cledtion of M>". Jefferion to the Pteftdency ! Thf
party with whom we have always been at variance,
cverfince the terminatian of the war, have but too t]
well succeeded in all their machinations—every de- si
fedt of tKat equalizing pla~n oPgovernment, the cont !i
federation was exaggerated, and every difficulty re- tl
fulting from the local prejudices and habits of the V
several states was encrcjfed—particularly those of a o:
commercial nature were worked up to such a crisis, ci
that an explofjon became inevitable— : to these the m
paper holders artfully united themselves, who join
ing in the cry, produced the famous convention, ar
which was to remedy all our evils, by amending the g (
existing form of government : Inllead of which,
they produced the present monarchical system. Thf
confrqnences rrftrlrr-Tg (torn 11.i3 bnnrfaced" tlfdrpati
on, you Und 1 have often deplored. What progtefs
has this system made in a few years ! how has it " l
underminec the pillars of state sovereignty, by blen
ding the interests of the several states, and involving t0
and convulving those of individuals with that fyf- " r
tem, in such manner, that there is no small rifqu'c
encountered by any one who has hardihood enough
to call its infallibility in queftior,. Already do we t0
fee established a colossus, reared in our land in the V(r
form of a bank—a moniler, whose w«ight and in- ,r
fluence has extended from one end of the continent
to the othei—a funding system, of which I will not l!
affront your patience by reciting the malignant ten
dency—a revenue government, whose ramifications
pervade every corner of the union, constituting a
phalanx of governmental retainers and expedtanti, as
which the bare contemplation of ten years ago, would
have filled the mind of every free American with to
horror.
Turn to the organization ofM he government
fee how insulated and detached are its several parts tK
from t,he refpedtive states—it appears'like a foreign
machine operating in the midlc of them, tndepefl- an
dent and irresponsible—and no man can doubt bat
the time will come, when the state governments, al
ready mere corporations, will be declared so, or pro
nounced useless, if not injurious. I (hall not en- do
large here, tho' 1 might fill the Pneet with amplifi- of
cations—should you now enquire hovv a change is to dil
be brought about in consequence of Mr. JefTerfon's 1 fei
eledtion, I anlwer—Mr. Jeffcrfon it is well known al(
always had feriom objedtions to the nevv cotiftituti- tei
on, but, he uniformly opposed, even while in office, I
many prominent parts of its administration—he has I
objedtions to the funding system £ that however -waj
established if I recoiled right, while he was absent L,
in France—the bank scheme received his warmed ca!
opposition, he always maintained that it was uncon- w ]
ftrtuticnal, and (till thinks so. These two form the C o
basis of the fabric—thefe null be overturned,'or pa
eflentially altered—the bank must be thrown off fl u
irom its connexion with the government—left to
itfelf itimill decline, and by judicious attacks from
time to time, dutrng an adminiftr*tion ot four years,
may be completely crippled and overthrown. The' t h,
funding system cannot be confidefed in any other w j
light than as a system of favou'tifm—this may be, ca |
and undoubtedly will be revised, corredled and amen
ded—and'the public money more equally diffufed.
Justice may be done to original crediters, many of
whom, or their heirs still lurvive. I need not di
late here on a fubj*dt which we have so often dis
cussed, but, the bare contem, lation of the effedts of
this fylhftj, in transferring the mass of wealth, from
the fouthern_Jto the northern states, will convincc
any one, that there ought to be a change—there sol
ought to be a re afiion—and a reflux of property cat
southward. This may be d©ut ty a rrvifion of the Ef
system, and carrying things back to some formei int
peiicd.
But, what brightens our profpeft moil, is the the
confederation that Jeffcrfon is a phflel'itpker—-an en- v»t
ihufiaftie admirer ef the principles ef the French Ca
25? revolution ; »rd who vill lay, tTiat things may not 1
be revolutionized in this country to advantage.
In the New-England States, t'ley have fomctljing
like a religious eftablilhment. Our judicial code is
boriowed from the British. We are ta-u much like
( j s that people, in our commercial, mechanical, and fo
tjje cial habits. Jeffetfon's sentiments are hostile to all S
these ; and (hotild he get into office, the whole
tribe of Anglicised Americans, Tories and Yan
-1 3 kee/T'from the tirft to the last, goei out. '
•om Who can contemplate the profpeft before hs,
without rapture! See what philosophy and equality
• has done for Fraw** !In n frw years, every prcj'i- '
he 7 dice has been rooted up, and an order of things
has succeeded, little (l'.ort of the gr>(4en age.
Jefferfon hatrs the British—He feels 4. personal a
and general imipuhy to that nation. Helovesthe
" a French—To draw eloft-r the bonds of -amity witft '
the latter, and to widtrn the dilfance between as
and 'he former, wiil he a,» olijtin of attention—will
n f?> undoubtedly take place. Shiuild an open rupture be r
the eonfequence, Britain would soon be emancjpa
ted } a revolution there would follow. Their
commerce and manufactures reft on an Amtticas
foundation, and must fall, rut off from a connexion
with us. Britain props the war agaitift Fiance—
her commerce supports our funding system, o-.tr
banks, our nabobs. War with her, topples all
down headlong and then we begin again de novo.
A war would bring a crisis that would aecelerate
ffce execution of our plans ; but as its chances are
uncertain, I do not wish it : our business may and
will be done as effe&ually without one.
SAYS A CORRESPONDENT,
The majority in the city, for the anti-federal tic
-0 ket of eleflors, can by no means be considered as
'P" indicative of the permanent strength of the fa&ion
opposed to the government; as, amonglt that ma
m" jority mull be ranked a far greater number than the c
excess amounts to, of true and real federalifts,
friends to the prosperity of the country, and who s
_in general dettft the fadtion aud their criminal de- F
' figas. Honett an<t unfufpefting men, not viewing Si
lce the fuhje'tt in its true and whose minja are
often too strongly by partial prejudices to
ice make just diftinftions, are frequently liabls to be 1-1
misled by falfe impressions ; aud to be induced too j,
rashly to make a decision, even on questions of the
utmost magritude and importance ; not refledtifig
of that by deciding, without pofTefling themselves of
ii- j full and complete information, they commit all to
ler > hazard, and unwittingly forward the liberticide de
he figos of wicked and atrocious demagogues,
hf ——
re, A Hamburgh pap<?r of September 17, contains
do the Bull of the Pope which has been some time
e- finer, announced in the London papers. It is be
n- lieved that this Papal decree will greatly advance he
e- the complete re eftablilhment o£ tranquility in La fla
he Vendee, and remove all pretexts, which the priests <>b
a of Belgium might have feited, to oppose the exe- '' e
s, cution of the decree, ordering the abolition of the
le monasteries and convents in that country. th:
*1 o all the faithful Catholics, who live in France of
n ' and keep up a connexion with the holy apostolical »»'c
' e See. , th:
'' Pius VI. Health and apostolical benedidion.
~ Dearrfl Sent, « i
fs > The °® ce of a supreme fpiritusl (hepherd, which '°{
j ( our Lord Ji-susChmst, in his unbounded mercy, * U I
has entruftcd to our feeble hands, makes it onr duty
to teach all the faithful and particularly those who ' ia
f_ fubjfdl to fedachon, and to prevent them
• from (offering themselves to be led aft ray by earth- ed
Iv wifdi m, finee it is said unto us as it was said un- liu
, e to Isaiah'; Call and do not cease to call ; ratfe thy th '
, c voice like a trumpet and announce to my people their
UefjMffes. pu
)t We should therefore think otirfelves guilty'of a pr<
, t fu>, if we did not voluntarily seize every opportuni- b "
of ffiewing you the nectffity to be obedient to f,!t
the constituted authority. abl
J In fact it is recognized in the Catholic religion f "''
( as a fundamental dodtrine, that the production of
d governments is the work of divine wisdom, in order an,
to avert anarchy and rebellion, and to prevent the
nationsfrom fluctuating like the billows of the sea. Gc
This is conlirmed iSySt, Paul/speaking of no par- —
p ocular prince but of the fubjeft in general, he fays,
n that there is 110 power, but what emmes from God',
I. and that oppolition to this power, isoppofition to A 1
[t God himfdf.
1- Dear Sons,
Do not fuffer yoarfelves then to be led aftiay ;
- do not by a piety give cause to the friends si
of innovation to deride the Catholic religion. Yotu
0 difobedieace were a crirre which would not only be
s severely puniftied by the powers of the earth, but j
n also which is still warfe, fey God himfelf, who thtea
i- tens with everlasting damnation, those who are dif
•, j obedisnt to t.he constituted authority. '
Dear Sons,
J We ex hot t you, therefore, in the name of out
' Lord Jesus Christ, that you may sincerely and
earned ly (trivc to prove your submission to those
- who govern over you. Your condua ought to
r convince them mare and more of this truth, and en
■" gage them to love and ptotcdl your icligion, which
t ftiould be. maintained agreeably to the precepts of r,
' the Golpel and the rules of the divine discipline. < s
1 Lastly, we warn you not to believe any body,
. wholoever he be, who holds up other tenets than bra
= these, as thedodrine of the Eclefiaftical See, and '? •
r w ' th Pa'"n a l tenderness, we give you our apoftoli 1
< cal beitcdtdtioir. „c(
Given at Rofne, ad fanftam Mariam majorem, " c
• under our Fisher-ring, the sth of July of the " "
1 ■ y"r 1796, and the 22d of
our Popedom. *
(Signed) R. Card. Brafchius de HoiietVis. St?t
1 ®OSION, October 28. t ; a ,
; rohTr a V Uth °S ed i° ,i ßfer » 'he public, that
Monday of the week after next, i.thc day when
the people of this diftridt will aStmUe to give their in S
v.t« foran elector of president aud vice.president. f" 1
Candidate, hen. T. Dawes, fen. V
of «■—.» ■ ■ *** » ..... .1 I
, GAZETTE Of THE VHlttt) ST/IJKS MARINE LIST.
if? " —r~r—
is PHILADELPHIA, November 5.
fee
i,- ARRIVED. Days,
all Sloctp Lively, Collins, Rhode-1 Hand 6
lie Polly, Butlt'r, Norfolk 9
CLE A.RFD.
Scho. Telegraph. Vanneman, St. Croi*
is, i liidtiftry, Thomas, Boston
ty Polly, Ober, NewYofk
u- Sloop Hope, Fofler, Hifpatiiola 1
rr 3 Sally, Porter, Norfolk. '
A flilp ind brig from New-England are below—
3! a!fo fevcrrt! flaops and schooners, names unknown. ,
ie A brig from the Weft-Indies, capt. Teale, put
ft intn Wilmington vrfterday. jl
_ ■■ t — '— . — (
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, ;
Price 37 T-2 Cents. t
a c The Pretensions of Thomas Jeffer-' 1
ir son to the Presidency,
»M , EXAMINED, ! j
>n And the Charges against John Adams ■
~ ' ".EFUTKB.
Akdreffed to the Citizens of America in general,
and, particularly,
°- To the Electors of the Prejtdent.
• e Sold by
rt W. YOUNG, MILLS & SON, Corner of Stcond
id and Chefnut-ftreets.
November 5. tts
Fashionable Waistcoating. \
>s GEORGE DQBSON, No. 25, *
SOUTH T.HIRD-.STREET, I
e Has received per the Diana, from London, 1
Clouded and striped Sptnifh Swanfdown
Clouded Erminats and Moleikins 1
o Striped do. a»d do.
:• Figured Manillas
g Scarlet figured Erminels 1
e ; Printed plorinetts
u i Do. Caffinets flnd CafEmeres
c Superfine printed Quiltings, newest patterns j
/ Alio, per different arrivals, t
A large and general aflbrtment of Dry c
? Goods, I
£ Suitable to the prefeijt and approaching season. f
0 IVovember 5. dtf
SWANN'S, 7
Hiding School, H ur fe Academy & Infirmary. %
Adjoining the Public .Square, Market itrcet.
b \ a
; T. SWANN 1
» v, RNs bis sincere thanks totoofe gentlemen by whom
- he has been employed, during his rcfidenoe in this City, and
1 flatters himfelf that the success ot his efforts, in the numerous. \
s lobttiuate and dangerous difeafrs in Borfes, in which he has
. crKilulceds together with few moderate charges, will fe
cuie Jieir iu'uiefavjrs and receiuajendation.
He now be.;* leave to iofoim them and the public at large t}
th?t his Ipacrous and commodious ptrmiics, creftrd for the ~
» >>" rDf > (ci " bovc deferred are open for the reception of pupils ,
- of either lex, who wish to bei!.utied in the Art of Riding '
1 urd tne .tgtu method qf governing their borfes, so a»io ride
t rn wttH tale, elegance, and fafety—their horles will b>
ooeh.llv and expeditioufly broke, .for every purpose, at.o
•n-d- Mn t® the w,U of the riders ; the natural powers
winch are shut upin rhem, will be unfolded by art, calling
I nr, U r'f rm " V °' raotlon ' and giving to that noble anirtial
al lthofc beaut,e. of aft, on which providence has so bounn
-1 luily bellowed on them.
• A'lo.at hi, hospital. every difor ier to which the borfe is V
, liable will according to the rules of art, confirmed f
( by Jong and repeated experience.
The uiility of the above inllitution has never been qncftion-
ca. that H has long been wanted M this city, every gentleman', '<" c
stud will m3n ,fefl, a„d T, Sw NN a, the fiifl eftahlilher ot pi
follC " s and U P°" 'he fuppoitof that
t L liCVtr »n*iou, 111 lervtng] to enable him to
biing.lt to perfection. The idea of a lubferiotion for that -
oramnt rK n" Kd b y fcve ' al gentleman, who wifli to
1 hl rrr inftituttoo the amount of each fubfcrip.ion to „
CK rctu.ned by lerv K cs in any of the deoartmentt.he profeffes, f*
fhf • '° • ratC ch "S" <iatrcl in h is band bill. Such
luDlcnption is now open, and the signatures of many refpeft- of
rienf m r eU u a , i,C J ady ob J Ulntd - 'herelore in/ormi hi, f»
■ends Ladies and gentlemen to whom he has not
. ne honor of being: known, that he (hall in a few day, take »i
' and J p r e o "a°dn^ IUOg Uponlhtmand their support ad
: H ° rfcs for those Ladies and p"
Gentlemen who wtlH to be mftrufted.
: Nav - i'th*r r
This Day is Publilhed, «
a , c ,f' r the d« thcr > (price 15 cents)
And Sold by U DAV IE S, No. 63, Htgh-ftreet, "
and b y tne Other Bookfelltrs in tbe City, "
TIT FOR. TA T; :
1 Or, A Purge for a Pill.
Being an anfwep to a fcurriloas pamphlet, lately pub- "
- ed, en tit ed, " A PiU for Porcupine." "
AT) T " whirh is a dded,
A Poetical i\hapfody on the Times, "
Dejcribing the D'rfajlers of an Emigrant. "
" To bear an open flandcr is a curse,
But not to find an anfvTcr is a worfc." /a
This you gef, Booby tquirt, v m<
4< Bccaufe you wou'd : fci
*' Since you're for flinging dirt» po
11 .Ve'li try who best can spatter." ' cri
M , , IPadJ) JVhack.l »
November 4. g r
No. 154. ' 1
DiJiriS of Pennfj!<vania, to -wit :
S ?R E it , rcmcm ered tha; on the 26th darofSep
) ( A-' Umber, in the twenty-firft y ear of the lnde- hr
1, i Pe ?i ° f the Unitetl Stit " of America, A- '/■
braham Bradley, ef the laid Diftri&.hath denofited , fto
m this office the title of a Map, the right whereof, he bo
claims as author in the words followii g to wit, wl
" Ma P United States exiting the situations, mt
connetiionil & distances sf the Poft-Offices, Stage-raads att
„ C ° unt, «. Forts of Eitry and Delivery for Foreign vef'
lcls, and the principal rivers,
" By ABRAHAM BRADLEY, jun." "1
In conformity to the AA of the Congress of the United '
.. tntrs intituled '• An ud for the encouragement of leatn
he J„ h CUnng C ° F "'. Sof ma P 8 ' charts . a °d books to
the authors and proprietors of such copies during the
times therein mentioned." S
Samuel Caldwell, Clerk,
Tf,, 1, Diflrid of Pettnfylvania.
Pol Offl r r m f P , mar b< ef thea " ttor " the 7,
Hoil-Office, next door to the War-Office in Fifth-Street
No " ' 8 ' corn -- °f Crown Street aad
Alley between 4th and cth, and Vine and Cal-
Z to ilT,'' ¥nces \ ir T Htos dolhrs £ict >
ing to the n. a nn c r in which they are Sniffled. Ihe pro-
grefs for arrivals atli dc r u«vd of the Mail on the Ma.n
I..nemay be had feparat, {„
X, .
lawow. «
> «
r N» ifi.
D'ift'rifi cf Ptnnfylvrr.tri, to wit :
Be it femembeled, that on the seventeenth day of
tembef, irl the twenty- rft year of the independence?
of the United State* of America William Mitchell, of
the Paid diftri&, deposited in this ftfftct the title of" a book,
• the right whereof he claims as author, in the words sol?
* lowing, to wit:
9 " A new andVoniplete fyflem. of book-keeping, by an
" improved method of double entry, adapted to retail, do
>ifc " mellic and foreign trade ; exhibiting a variety of tranf-
" a«slions whicn usually o*cur in bi&fjrtcis. The whole
; <c corrtprifcd in three sets of book*; £h<? tad set beii>ga copy
"of rhj f.cond, according to thofc ly'fl^mj ma.i generally
>la Ci in use, is given in order to exhibit, by a comiwative
k. view, the advantages of 'he lyiiem a>jw laid down. J'o
{ ' which is added, a table of tke dprlcs payable on goods,,
" wares and merchandise imported into the United Staie»
"of America. The whole m dollars art ! cents.-
ut . « py William Mif&eU*
Tn Conformity to the a <51 of the Congress of the United
- States, intituled, "An a<s far the encouragement of learn
ing, by fatftiring the <?f maps, charts and books'to
the authors and proprietors of such copies, during the
times therein mentioned."
" | samuel Caldwell, elk
Pcnniylvartu
! N. B The above Book is now pv&lifhcd, and r?:rrjr be
had of the Booksellers O&oberr *Aw law
lS : — f ,
Robert. Smith & Co.
N». 58, South Front-/treet,
Have received by the late arrivals fr»m Loncon, Liver
pool, and Hull, and by the Ohio arrived <*t N. York
from Glasgow,
' A large & general afibrtment of Goods,
Suitable for the Sea/on, eotifijiir.g of
Duffle, Point and Rose in imail package®-
Blankets Oznaburgs and Brown Hol-
White, Red, and Yellow lands
Flannel Brown and white Ruflfwr
Booking and other Baizes Sheetings ,
Second and coarse Cloths Drilling' and Diapers
•Plain and mixed Caflimeres Calicoes and Chintzes
Plain, twilled, and ilriped jaconet and Book Muslin?
/ Coatings Do. do. Tamboured
Plains, Kerseys, and Half- Do. do Handkerchiefs
tKkks. Printed linen "nd thfcck d«w
White & spotted Swanskins Roma) and Madrafs do.
Lainet and fwanfdown vefl Muslin and Chintz
shapes Bed Ticks
Carpets and Carpeting Table Cloths
Calimancocs and jpurants Laces and Edgings
Moreens and Tabor tens . r alhio n a file Ribbons
Joans Spinning and Crapes Do Hats and Bonnets
y Camblets and Wildbores Gotten 3c Worded Ho fiery
Bombazeens 6c Bombazets Glov- and Mitts
Rattinets and Shalloons White 8c coloured Thread*
Plain, Genoa and printed Italian Sewing Silks
Velverets 8c Thicksets ivory and Horn s Combs
7-8, 4-4, and rr-8 Cotton | Tapes, Bindings, Pins, Sic*
They,have on hand a large a (Tort men tof India Muslins- 1
and Calicoes, black and coluurcd Ptriians, Bandanr.o and
Puliicdt Handkerchiefs, See. and a quantity of Nutmegs?
and Mace.
O&oher 17. mwfim
] Any Pi.RsoN
■. who is well acquainted with the R 'rvci*
MISSIS I P P I,
And will give Directions tor (ails •■£ into the fanar>
c that can be depended on, (h'-ill Ix reward-*
e ed for bis information, pr >vide>), lie will icave the
' iireitions with Mr. John Fenr.o, printer, 'Philadelphia,
£ or lulmund M. Blunt, Newburyport.
November j. ' lavrzm
; Mr. Francis/"
(Of the New Theatre)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanfc»to his
fehofars and to the public. Mr. Francis -intends?
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aci
* demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pup if, hj
_ therto renders anypromifes of conducing his future
, schemes on the mod liberal and ftritfeft terms, of pro
t priety, totally unneceflary.
A r . 3. Private tuition as usual. I
; June 3 nff
; Treasury of the United' States.
NOTICE is hereby given to persons whd are or
may be Creditors of the United States, for any i'um?
. of thr Funded Debt, or Stock, baring a prcftnt inlcrtjl of
j per centum per annum.
t 13, Thtt pursuant to an Aa of Ccmgrefs passed on thtf
■ ißth day t>f April, 1796, mutlcd an ait in addition to an:
t adt, intituled li An a<sl making further provision for thof
support of public credit, and lor the redemption cf the
I public debt," the said debt or stock will be reimbursed and
paid in manner following, to wit. « Fir'll, by dmdendj
. " t0 be nilde <> n the lalt days of March, June and Se -ten>-
" ber for the present year, and from the one tkcufand
11 seven hundred and ninetr-feven, to th*yeaf one chdu
•' sand eight hundred 6c eighteen inrlufive, at the rate o(
, " one and one half pel- centurti the original capital,
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on «t.'' la(t day of
" December for thaprefent year, and from the year an<s
" thousand seven hundred and nin ty-ftren, to the yeat*
" one thousand eigjit hundred and fe-venteen inclufivc, aE
" the rate of three and one half per centam upon the ori
" ginal capital; and by a dividend'to be ma e on the hit
" day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of such mm, as will be then a-te
»' luate, accoritiiig to the contrad, for the fisai redemu*
" tion of th ' said ftoc??'
id. AH diftimSlion between payments on account of
llter eft zni Principal being thus abolifhen by the eftabiifli
merit of the permanent rule of reimbursement abov« de
scribed, it-has become necessary to vary ths r ■
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; th" public
creditors will therefore-obferve that the following forra
lseftabhfhedfor all powers of attqrney which may be
granted after the due promulgation oi this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN £T TIIES£ PRESENTS that
1 .> of
do make, conjlitutc and appoint
it ' my true an J laivful .jii~
tomey, forme, and in my name, to receive the dividends ivbid are.
or/ball be payable to law, on the (her« defcribir. K the
ftoek)yWt*s- in my name in the books of (here defcribing.tl'r
books of the Treafufy or the Commiffioncr of j.oai s,
where the flock is credited) from (here insert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power < f
attorney is to continue) -with po-.uer also an attorney cr att-,r.
u " J,r bin, for that purpose to make andjubfiiM,, and tfi do a!,
lavujul ads require for effeliing tbepremifis, hereby ratif i, r tj
confirming all that my said Attorney or bisfuhfiitute.jbatl IS-.vful
*y do, by virtue hereof
In IVitnefs hereof, I have hereunto set ay Hand and Seal tie
day of i n the year
Sealed and Delivered
in prefence> of,
BE I T KNO I<VN) that on the day of
efore me perfonalh came
■within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to U
bis a& and dyed.
In tefimhny whereof I have btrtuntofet my Hani ,nd cjjix-
Seal the day and year Up. afory'aid.
®iven under my Hand at Philadelphia, this tweiv-
tieth day of July 1796, parfuant) to diredtiens
from the Secretary of the I'reafary
SAMUEL MEREDITH,
„ , _ Ircafvrer of tit United Stuts.
r.FOR SALE,
.An elegant HOUSE, No. 78, Walnut
ftreet ;
WHICH is 45 feet front, by 171 feet deep, with a
lot adjoining, 30 1-2 feet wide, by 72 feet 8 inches
deep. (This lot is back of the house occupied by
George Willing, Esq.) The house is completely finilh
ed in every Fefpefl. It is 50 feet deep, has two a
large pirlours, the front one 24 feet, the back one is
tl feet, by 18 1-2 .feet, a handsome drawing-room,
14 1-2 feet by 24 feet Ths rooms below, the draw- r;
ing-room and the chambers adjoining, have mahogany C
doors, and these as well as the rooms above them have
a cdmmunication with each other. The height in the
firft and second story is la feet, and have ftoco cor- r
nines', and rtine rooms up ftaits, besides the garrets, (
which are divided into three rooms, a good •kitchen,
wash-house, milk and bathing-hOuses, a large ice
house, a pump in the yard, and a 3 feet 3 inch alley,
that leads into Fourth-flreet, The cellars are laid with
lime, and flooYed with two inch plank, and plastered.
The yard is well paved, and the house is clear of q
ground-rent. All the rooms have bells in them, and
the chamber bells ring in the garret, as well as in the
■entity down Hairs. All the chambers have white tilts,
except the one next to the drawing room, which has
as well as the drawing-room and the two parlours be
lofr, marble chimney pieces. The drawing-room, the
two parlours below, and the entry, are papered up to ,
the third story: In the room over the kitchen is an
open stove. In the wash room there is an oven, and
the back buildings, from the cellar, all the way up f
have large clofetsi and in the cellar is a large bottle y
rack, a wine store is taken off of the cellar, and three c
bins to hold bottled liquor are made in said room p
with padlocks to them ; ihe whole cellar and the cock- r
loft are as well plastered as any room in the house. 1
In short, the house is in every respect completely finifti- *
ed. Poffeflion (hall be given in ten days after the house
is fold. Two briek stables in VValnut-llreet, with
two coaeh houses. one of them will hold two carri- 0
ages, the other one. The smallest <:able has room for
three, and the iargeft for four horses. It is is 21 feet £
front on Walnut-street by 50 feet, 3 inches deep. They „
have excellent lofts over them. The building is arched
and laid with lime and two-inch plank; and the cellars .]
will hold about 100 pipes of wine: Is clear of ground 1,
rent, and has the privilege of an 11 1-2 feet alley, that f,
leads into Pifth-ftreet. Also a brick store, 33 feet front h
on Fourth-street, by 50 feet deep, which might at a c:
small expen. e beturned into a handfomt dwelling house c
having been so contrived inthe building. It has a yard ii
48 feet 6 inches wide, by 24 feet deep, has a rain wa- C
ter pump, and other conveniences, and the aellar is laid it
with two inch plank, and is now rented at 40 dollars ti
per month. This building is fubjeil to a ground rent of e
II dollars 3-4 per annum. The store and stables I would
give immediate polfeffion of. GEORGE MEADE.
No. 78, Walnut Stseet.
Terms of payment for the foregoing property,viz.—
X 6301. may lay one year certain, after the sale and if
the interest is regularly paid, that humane, worthy,good,
and friendly Aan, Edward Sties, Esq. fays it may lay
as long as thepurchafer pleai'e- (purely he fays to oblige
me) the interest being regularly paid. *
48001. to be paid in approved note*, and approved in- .
dorfers at 12 months, the remainder in approved notes "
and approved iedorferi, at 15; 18, and 24 months, the ,
property to be secured for the paym nt. The stables may *' t
be paid for in like manner, and the store too, all but 4000
dollars, which mufl be paid in an approved note, and ap
proved indorfer, at 6 months, the whole payable with
interest.
Oft. 26. dx.
To be Sold, t
AT PUBLIC VENDUE. I
On Thursday the 6tb day of April next, at 12 J clod. a:
at Dougherty's tavern, in the toiun of Winchejler, '<
in Virginia, thefollotving lands, Jituate -in the said £
Jlate, viz. x
No. t.—430 Acres, p
Of excellent land onthe waters of Back-creelc, in U
Frederick county, on the great road leading to the t
South Branch, awout ten miles from Winchester, too tl
itres of which is rich bottom, a fine stream running
through it, with several springs, the trees in the bottom
are chiefly sugar maple, bla«k walnut hii kory and lo
cust. There is a dwelling and out-houfes, lome
re-adow made, and 40 acres of upland cleared. On
this t ail there is a good miil-feat, where an under- ai
fcot-rnill might be ereftid. '*
No. Acres.
Situate in HampOiire county, on the north branch j;
of the Potowmack, and on a branch called Cabbin-run,
about eight miles from Fort Cumberland. On this
trail is a large quantity of rich bottom, fit for meadow
or the culture of hemp, the upland remarkably good,
being chiefly timbered with walnut and hickory. The
above trail is in two surveys of 400 acres each. 6
No. 3. —200 Acres.
Situate in Franklin county, about ten miles fyom
Winchefteig On this tract there is a dwelling house
and part of the land is cleared, the remainder is finely ■
timbered. "
No. 4. —A Lot tif Ground.
In the town of Woodftock, Shanandoah county, f<
whereon is ere fled a two story house, and other im
provements, and a ten acre lot for the convtniency of
laid town lot. ,
No. 5 — 250 Acres.
Situate about two miles from Woodftock. Part of
this tract is in cultivation, is finely timborsd, and a good
quantity of meadow may be made.
No. 6.—406 Acrc*.
Situate in Hampshire county, on George Andes's mill
run, on a branch of the Cafapchon. This tract is finely
timbered, there is good bottom land, which might he
•afily converted into meadow.
No. —One moiety of 5000 Acres.
Lying on the waters ef Hughes's river, in Harrifon
eounty. This was purchased at one quarter of a dol
lar per acre, c ifli above 8 year* ago.
No. 8.—41,900 Acres.
tying in thccounties of Wythe, Walhington, and :
Grayfon (the greater part in Wythe,) on the waters
ef Cripple creek and Fox creek, branches of New Ri
ver, and on the south fork of Holftein.
No. 9 — 10,000 Atres.
Lyiilg'.in the county of Hardy, on the waters of Great
'Cacapion and North River.
The terms of payment will be one third part of the
purchase money to be paid in hand at the time of ex
ecuting the deed or deeds of conveyance, the remaining
two thirds to be paid in equal ihfialments, at 12, 18,
»Bd 24 months thereafter securing, thoffi payments by
mortgaging the premises.
Should any person wish to punchafc at private sale,
application may be made to John Holker, Esq. near
Winchester ; Uavjd Holme?, Esq. of Winchester; or
the fubfctib r in Philadel
phia, Kin- the owner of said lands, who will perfoi.al
\y attenckriicla'e on the day abovementioned.
George Meade.
Philadelphia, jd of November 1796.
diw w&« 1 MdtA.
.>« I i
To be S-old,
* *• *
60,400 Aca»s -of Landv. ' ,
Lying on the river Alleghany, in the county of Nor
thumberland, in the State of Pennsylvania.;
400 Acres Land, • c
In Bald Eagle townlhip, Northumberland county t
1 aforefaid. • c
60,000 Acres Land, c
Lying on the waters of the Oconee and Canouchee 1
rivers, in the couuty of Walhington, in'the state ot (
Georgia. 1
174,000 Acres Land,
Lying on the waters of the Ohopee and Canouchee j
rivers, in the county of Montgomery, in the state of
1 Georgia.
> 3 1 033 Acres Land,
Lying in Orangeburgh diftrift, in the state of South
' Carolina. And,
146,986 Acres Land, j
Lying in Charleston diftrift, in the said state of South
Carolina. ' t
An Half-acre Lot of Grond, ,
In tW town of Richmond, Virginia.
The above Lands will be fold low.—Apply to 1
George Meade. '
Philadelphia, id November, 1796. dlww&stf.
1 The Creditors of Scott and M'Michael,
formerly merchants of this city, and who failed in the
year 1763, or 1764, (and from whom the fubferiher pur
chased bills of exchange to amount of several hundred '
pounds sterling, which have lain by him ever since,) are
requested, everv mam or them that is living, to meet at
the City-Tavern on Tucfday, the 15th of Novembur next, i
at 6 o'clock in the evening, in order to oblige Charles
Cox, formerly of this city, now of New-Jersey, and John
Bayard, formerly of said cityi, and speaker of the House
ol Assembly of said state, now of Brunfwick, New-Jersey,
assignees of said Scott & M'Michael, to come forward aad
pay over the monies they have had in their hands belong- \
tng to the creditors these 32 or 33 years. Some years a
go the creditors were called together ; Mr. Cox appear
ed in behalf of himfelf and Mr. Bayard, and alleged that .
' they were apprehenlive they might be brought into trou
ble if they parted with the money (which I apprehend is
some thousands,) as his Britannic Majesty had a debt due °
him for government bills: it was however agreed by the f
creditors met, th it the assignees Ihoul J take the opinion of "
counsel; they did so, and it was that they would be fafe .
in dividing the money among the creditors. I urged Mr. 11
Cox to bnngthebufinefstoa final close ; his answer was,
it would be but a trifling sum; my reply was, if ever so *
trifling, I would have my proportion of it. It has how
ever lain over.
I therefore hope the creditors will now come forward *
and oblige the afiignoes to divide whatever they have, and
they onght to pay interest too.
George Meade.
Philadelphia, 2d November, 1796. dtijN-
01
The creditors of the late Abel James, «
who stopped paymerft in 1784, are requested to meet at "
the City-Tavern, on Teefday, Bth November, at 6 o'clock
in the evening, in order to oblige the assignees, (John
Field and others) to close their affairs: My demand it
for a balance due on a returned bill of 10001. sterling, costs,
damages and interest.
George Meade.
Philadelphia, November ad, 1793. dtBN. J.
The Creditors of Van Vleck and Barton,
and William Barton,& Co. (who failed in theyear 1784) fh
are earneftlj requested to m«et at the City-Tavern, on of
Wednelday the 9th November, at 6 o'clock In the evening ai
in order to oblige the surviving assignees, Stephen Austin, 01
and Andrew Hodge to close those affairs. John C'hand- »
ler, deteafed, who was one of the assignees, once offered
r to the fubferiber 12/6 in the pound for his debt, which is
for a returned bill of 8000 guilders, with costs damages
and interest, and the assignees have never paid but $f m the
pound, though they advertised goods belonging to William
Barton & Co. in the year 1784 'or 178.5, and allowed e-
very creditor the liberty ef buying to the amount of 10f in *-
the pound of their debts.
George Meade. v
Philadelphia, November 2d, 1796. dtgN. t<
The Creditors of Clement Biddle & Co.
are requested to meet at the City-Tavern on Monday the w
14th inft.—in order to oblige the assignees to a settlement ] ;
of tht.ii affairs, which have lain ever these twelve years ; f<
the fabferiber's demand is for a returned bill of I,OOoL ster
ling, damages 20 per cent, and interest. n
George Meade. b
Philadelphia, 3d November, 1796. dti4N. n
The foregoing ad-vertifements are a good specimen of
assignees. I could give a further one if it was necessary.
To be Let,
A»large cellar, in Walnut-street just above Fourth-Street, that
is floored with two inch plank, and will hold upwards of 100
pipes of wine.
Also, a Stable and Coach-houfc, that will hold four hor jj
, fesand twe carriages; and several ftortt in Fourth Street -
Apply to
f George Meade.
Who has for sale,
■ boxes of Castile soap
Red Lisbon Wine
A few pipes of bill of exchange wine
A few barrels ot Irilh mess beef
And a few barrels of ship bread.
t Nov 4. digt.
e Irish Linens, &c.
Imported per the Jhips GlaJgeiu, s from Dublin, Liber•
n ty, frtm Cork, and btig Mentor, from BetfaJl,
1- 4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In whole and half boxes,
Assorted .from I id. to 4s. sterling—Also 5-4 wide
d Sheetings, and low priced yarn and worsted Hose.
6 On Hand,
i- 7-{j Wide Lawns.
Diapers and Table-Cloths
A few boxesTickens and Checks
H A few bales Flannels
Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, Nos. I and 6
le 15 Boxes ■) r6 by 8,
10 Ditto V Window Glass, < 7 by 9,
j Ditto J C 8 by 10.
The above mentioned Goods are -all entitled to the
' drawbiek, and will be disposed of bv the packaee on
•y reasonable terms. *
e , James, Clibborn & Engliih,
ar „ No. 6, N. Sront-ftreet.
or loth mo. 19th. dtf
it' To be Sold,
The Time of a smart, active Negro Lad,
Who has Eleven years to serve.
Enquire at No. 58, South Frost street.
O&obtr 18. f
Loft Last Evening,
At RicketU's Amphithe.itr", (.fuppofed to be taken by
feme villain out of a gentleman 9 pocket;
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK, |
Containing abSut lßj dollars in bank nous; three note. .
of hand of Ryls>fl Simian, No. 304, 305 and 306, da- 1
ted 12th last 'Aufarli, payable 60 das» after dan-, to the ,
order of Paul Siemen, together for. 5130 dollars; anordei ,
of Mrs. Ann A acph P rfo.n,-from PanJ Surntr., cn-Lach
: lin Mac Neal, Hfq. at Pon-au-Prjnce, for 100 dollars ; be- 1
fid«s fcveral letters and papeTs of no use but to the proprie
tor. The notes of hand and ogler al-e without endfrfc
racnt. EIGHTY DOLLARS TOWARD ft offered to
any person who. will difcove- and ftcnie the thief, and
; FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menu- ■
oned notes and papers at No, 119, corner of Front and
Mulberry ftre«ts. d • „ Oct. 11.
Mr. RIG^TTTS - j
BEGS leave to inform the l.adies and Gentlemen, that
he will open his RIDING SCHOOL on the ill of Nov. t
for the inftruiftion of Ladies and Gentlemen 111 the ele- ,
gant accomplilbment of riding and managing their horses
with ease to themfclves.
Mr. Ricketts has well trained Horses for the accom
modation of Ladies and Gentlemen for exercise, to pay
monthly. Pupils to pay by the season, or by the lesson.
Horres trained to the road or field. j
O&eber 24. "
THIS DAY PUBLISHED, J
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chtfnttt-ftreet,
(Price I a 1-2 Cents)
The President's Address ,
To the People of the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
at the expiration of the present conftitutibnal term ot
presidency. £
September 20. d
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM M'DOUGALL will open his fchooi on Mon- L
day the 31ft inft. at ten o'clock in the morning, at his
Elegant hew Ball Rooms, k
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets. J
Hours of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to 1 o'cloek
on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for
young gentlemen from 6 to 9 o'clock on the evenings o
(he fame days.
In addition to a number of new cotillioas, he means to
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firll pra&ifmg ball to be on Tuesday e- 1
vening, thefirft of November, and to be continued every
Tuesday, during the season. t'
For terms, icc, enquire at his bo use, N0.134, Market- a
street. t<
OA. >7. eetf.
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa&ory, situate
in a convenient part of the city ; the works almolt new,
on an entirely original conftiu&ion, and built of the bed
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Perfon#
whowilhto purchase, arc requested to apply at No. 273,
South Second Street.
September 13. t t f tf
FOR SALE.
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT ia miles from this City, lituate in Abibg
ton Townlhip, Montgomery-County ; containing
70 awes, a new Hone house, two stories high, 2 rooms on a
floor, fire placet in each, a Itone kitchen and Hone spring
house, over in excellent spring of water, a barn, stables 1
fhedt, barracks, &c. A large apple orchard, and a varietyo'
oth< r fruit, about t» acres of good meadow well watered,*
and wood Sufficient tor fire, and fencing the place. Poffefli- d
on may be had the Ift of April next. Property in this city n
will be takeu in exchange, or MORRIS and NICHOLSONS
Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Street. d
Philadelphia, September 13. 1796. ttftf t ]
STOP THE THIEVES!!!
LAST Wednesday Evening, October 19, between the
haursof7and ioo'clock, the bed room of , Mr. Ricketts ia
O'Eller's hotel was entered, cither by means of falfe keys,
orat the window, by some villain or villains, who mull have
been acquainted wi:h the situation of the house (as the door
was found locked after they had committed the theft) who >
took away from amongst several trunks, ONE which con
tained a valuable part of Mr. Rickett's property, but of which
he is not yet able to ascertain the contents particularly. Af
ter bringing the said trunk away, and emptying it of up
wards of a thousand dollars in cash and bank notes, the vil
lains left it behind the circus, during the time that the per- 1
formances of the evening were going forward'
It is earneflly requested, that all tavern-keepers on the stage B
roads, and the ferry as well as all civil officers, may f,
be watchful in securing filfpicious persons, who may have a f,
redundance of cash, which their appearance would by no l
means bespeak them to be pofleffed of.
r One Hundred Dollars Reward a
Will be given for securing the thief or thieves, and a fur- F
ther reward for securing them with the property. p
o£t - »- * 11
Univerlity of Pennsylvania, *
1 OHober 5, 1796. *
The Medical Le&urss will commence the firft Monday <:
in November. UW3W 0
Just Landing, *
At South Jlreet-wharf, from on board the [htp Secfg- r
ley, Captain Bodge, from St. Petersburg, r
The following Goods : . {:
Ru£Qa Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do. *\ j
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Crash.
Do. Mould Candles, 4, j and 6 *to" the lb. of the
Enghfh size-
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do* White SoLp in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
1 Ravens Duck.
Isinglass, ift and | end fort.
Horse Hair uncurled. f
Ruflia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
ia Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Petersburg Clean Hemp;
For Sale ty J
Philips, Cramond, & Go. t
Oflobern. 1
e Sheridan's Dictionary, !
1 THE SIXTH KDITION, '
Is this Day Published, 1
Br IV. YOUNG, MILLS iOA f .
:. Corner of Second and Chefnut streets,
lit one lefrge Bt/». -volume, price i dollars.
A COMPLETE DICTIONARY of the JjNGLHH
LANGUAGE, both with regard to found and meanire,
one main object of which is to eftablifli a pUin and per-' '
3 manent Standard of Pronunciation. To which is prefixed,
a Profodial Grammar. ,
IT TUOMJS ttSRIDAH, A. M.
O&ober *». It& ,
GLASS ENGRAVER.
y Mrs. Descamps, from Path.
Informs the Public that she has jult opened t>.- ft
North Third Street, No. 95 , wher, toe%n
border?, powers, garlands, cyjjjhwj, figure?, c f ctl . ■
s gns, &c. in the most elegant, fafhionable, u ea t
- new stile, all forts of glall"es, and glass wares on f,
<r most reasonable terms. All orders will be than'-f
r received and pun&ually executed.
Gj M - cfcam P 8 cxccutes any thing in the line of
Nov. "'2. "
° s To be Rented,
. A Small and Convenient BR E IV ER 2
il Mot%is Ville, oppylte Trentun.
ALL the Apparatus for Brewing new and in
- repair: A number of Barrels and Half-BairdC" '
also be rente-d. Pofleflion may be had at any ti:"- 1
t Enquire of Mr. Garrett Qottringer in HMUdcbiV:
. or Mr. Robert Morris, jun. or Daniel Man at Ivlomsl
- ,Ville.
s Prober ao, 1796. roiH&ww
New Hat and Hi si est Store]
Wholesale, and Retail,
By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL,
No. 134, Market Street, 3d door from the corn-r
of Fourth, South Side.
Mens' Black American and Englih Hats, of various qual
ities and prices.
Ditto Drabs add Green-undxrs.
Ladies' ditto black
j And a large aflortment of fancy ditto
Coloured Beavers
With a great variety of elegant and falhionable trim
' mings' &c.
Youth's black and drab coloured ditto.
Children's fancy ditto
All kinds of silk, sdk and cotton, cotton and thread hose
Xr.it coloured Pantaloons
Ditto Drawers
• Ditto Breeches Patterns
folk Gloves * •
Knotted, coloured ditto, cotton.
A quantity of mending cotton, sorted colours.
N. B. The hats finiflied in the newest fafhon.
• oa - '7' eod.m.
Washington Canal Lottery,
N°. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, froM til f*u ;
tomacto theEaflern Branch Haruour. ,
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz -1 Prize of ao,ooo dollars, 20,000
I ditto 10,000 10,000
7 last drpwn 1
Tickets, each j s '°°° 35,000
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
10 ditto 400 4> ooo
ao ditto 100 2,000
55 ditto jo a,7 ;<?
5 7JO ditto II 69,008
To be raised for th« Canal, 26,150
5850 Prizss, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two, to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
The Commissioners have taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid ail for the pun&uil payment of
the prizes.
i The drawing of this Lottery wiH commence, without
delay, as soon as thr Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be gtveu. -
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
drawing is finiflied, lhall be considered as relinquifhcdfor
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed ) NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
CKy of Walhipgion, Feb. 11. 5 *'
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration o£the firft day of March next en
suing, for the supply orall rations which may he require J
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
1 June, 1797,"t0 the thirty-firll day of May, 1798, both
days inclusive, at the places and within the diftri&s here
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
Paefque lfle; at Sanduflcy Lake, and on Sandulky
River; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank-
T lin; at Pittsburgh ;at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton;
at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jsfferfon; at Grenville; at
Picque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place bslow Fort
Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben; at FortMafiac ; at any place from Fort Maffac
to the south boundary of the United States on the river
MifiiCppi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If supplies lhall be required ior any polls or places not
- mentioned in this notice, all such supplies lhall be fur
niihed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
polls before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
' between the United States and the Contra&or.
The rations to be fupplicd are to consist of the fol
lowing articles, viz.
One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
pork or bacon.
' Half a gill of rum, brandy or whifeey.
One quart and hajf a pint of fait.")
Two quarts of Vinegar, / hundred ratioM
1 wo pounds ol Soap, « r
One pound of Candles, )
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities, as that
there lhall at all times during the said term, be fufficieiit
for the consumption of the troops nt Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix months in
advance, and at each of the other polls, for the term ot
at leall three months in advance, in good and wholesome
provifions,if thel'ame lhall be required. It is to be un
derstood, that the ContraSor is to be at the exfcr.ce an
riHc of iffuingthe fupplias to the troops at each poll, in '
, that all lofTes fullained by the depredations of an cne.uy, 0*
by means of the troops of the United/States, fhail b- P ai '
- for at the pricc of the articles captured or deftrojed, 011
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable cn -
raders, and the certificate of a commiflioncd officer, a
certaining the circumllances of the loss, and the aniout
of the at tides for which compensation lhall be claimed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Treasury.
PRINTED BY JOHN F£N NO.
'• —No. 119 —
CHES»B r-STR BET.
Fight Dollars per Ammw-}
.' ■ * : >>V '■ ->T.-OV»' ;' . 9
»0* "T*> f* «t"sl Vj tr r m '?• •