H CH *
f ■■ " V; . ■ •. • . «
of the BnttelJ States, # Philadelphia Daily Advertiser
, THURSDAY E7ENISI, VJ7EMBER. 24, 179S- X *
Nl/MSEJt ~ "1 . _ .. , _
—— — Z~T7 a, . 1 ™ , Wiilij 1 The Weft-Indian s Cargo
For NORFOLK,
The Brig SIX &ROT HER?,
John Needhwn. >**»«» Wll ft " in .
or 8 dty#—For freight or paflage apply to »he captain
on board, Joseph Anthony & Co.
has a few barrels of Rum
and Oil on board for sale.
frSKfe-i lf>r freight or Oh .■''f'-rr
To Eilhpe or the t-VJnaies,
The new Brig FAIR AMERICAN,
""TlkhirdCalley, M alter ;' burihen 1 4 5 to 'l 5 > > las
«M>d accommodations, and is now ready to receive a
ca.'goapply to the Captain on board, firft wharf
the Still-House, bouthwack, or to
Isaac Harvey, jun.
Who has now for Tale, at his store, No. 5, South
Water-fcxeu
A quantity of Cayenne ilnidad Cotton
Spaniih Soafl Leather
And a parcel of Carolina Rice, in -whole and half
tierces. nth mo. nth. dlw
SART?R. :
p—s. For We, a good strong built ship, bur-
x3s»barrM«, nearly new, well found
tsssjjk*^ a nd can be put to Tea at a small expence.
Pavmpni- will be received ill Eftglilh or
India goods, or if more agreeable to the purchaler, 3,
6, and 9 months credit would be given on approved
notes, for fnrth-r particulars enquire at No. 8, South
Water-street, or No. *9 North Tkird-itreet.
. November 16.
For Madeira,
The Jhip Concordy
Capt. John Thomson. For freight
ttfSS&zfifbiCS ox pa(Tage apply on board, or to
Peter Blight ;
Who has for sale, a quantity oi
Brandy, in pipes
Whiting and Copperas, In hogfltejds
Old Hock, in cases
Dutehi Cream-Cbetfe, in boxes
Window Glass
Empty Gin-Cafe* c
Glass Ware, in bo*«
Painters' Colours, ground in oil
Sweet Oil, in cases of a dozer, bottles tliß
Hazlenuts, In ticks.
November n. dtm
_ jr?? Wanted to Charter,
V A fajt-failing Vejjil,
$ *' That will carry 5 or 600 birrejs ; to
«■' S>load immediately for the Weft-Indies-
Apply to
Peter Blight.
November 10. _ ■■ : - L —- 4* —t
FOR LONDON,
The capital (hip CERES,
fail fobn :—for freight or paflage
apply t6 DAts, ROBERTS & Co. or
John Vaugbaitj
September 13. Fro'nt-ftreet.
FOR SALE,
1 HE SHIP MART,
SAMtfEL PARKEft, Master,
.:..>i«S3:r.£:2s3fiTwo hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH AN THONY, & Co.
If the MARY is notfold in a few days, lhe will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply »s above.
October 31. j
Just arrived, and will this day be lan
<kd from on board the brig FAVORITE at Chefnut
firtzt ■wharf.
25, Tons befl Russia Clean HUMP,
56 Tons old Sable flat IKON,
voo Coils best Russia CORD ACE, afftnted
4,00 Piter* brfcwn RvflU SHEETINGS,
leo Bolts Russia DUCK,
*4© Pieces Raveris do.
■so Hulf-down feather be4s, and
A few picces aborted DIA PER.
FOR SALE BT
Joseph Anthony and Co.
The • bove mentioned BRIG
«» » few days, and rfk- freight on
. ,erms for Bolton or Salem, for
or pa Sage, apply oh board or as above
fc'f.' ' .. 1 I rj. •
For Charter^
Th« Ship JOHN BULKELT,
Atres STOCKtry, Master.
„ . An excellent liye-oak pnd cedar built
of about 300Q barrels burthen, —Ap-
J e ]f e Vf aln.
Nov. " w .
■ ■■ill)' ..I 1 r ■. .I- "•
F°r London,
The Jhip William Penn,
■ J'fiah, nailer. Will fail with all
speed. For freight or passage
apply to the Captain on boiii il, or to
JefTe arid Robert Wain.
10, 1796. j
For Lilbon,
TheDartifh barque Be>jitekt'ura,
Samoel Stutb, Mofter,
A g °° d °f abouttwo hundred
For freight er pafiage
Jejfe Robert Wain.
Jt ,
— l -—-——■—^' • r i
For Liverpool,
The Ship DO mime K TERRY,
Jacob Df.hart, Maftcr.
3 11lI ll 7' r cargo engjgetl.—
For flight or paffiige aubly to
»— ter on-board, atth'twhar: of the fuh
ftribei*s, or,
Jeffe- ld" Robnt Wain.
No**- 7. a
For Sale or Charter,
Brig Lady Wajhington,
sO - Built ih New-England In 1790, and
1 completely repaired the prelent >ear; (lie is IS3 tons
burthefl; has (lowed 515 hhds of feed, and i4,o<X>M.
(lavs h, and is now in good order to perform an European
Toy ge with little e*penfe. Eor particulars and terms
of payment apply to the mafttr ou board, or to
1 Samuel Coates,
.No. 8», South Pront-ftieet.
Also, art board fiu! v;]j*k for jaFe,
r ' Forty hogmeads Newbury Rum.
November 22. * x
1 iStL F° r Sligo Killibegs,
| The American Ship Nancy,
Cuthbert Riggs, master.
Will fail with all convenient fpefi. For
freight or paflage apply to
William Bell;
Who has for sale,
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well alTbrted
f 3 Bales Irish Flannels, and i boxej Linens
15 Pipes Brandy
Madeira Wine Indigo. Ruflia Matts,
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OA'fMfcAL, &c.
Kovember ii, X 796,
' For Sale, or Charter,
1 jrSri The Ship DIANA,
1 Sa*uel Pile, Master,
Burthen joj 47-9J tons register, built in
Philadelphia in the year 1792, of live cak
and red cedar, and wis (heathe'd 13 months ago, (he
has just had a compleat out-fit, and may be Sent to sea
at * verv trifling expence. .
ftr terms apply to
1 Philip Nicklin & Cs.
if ho kaDt for fate on hoard said vejjil,
37 eaiks of fitic yellow paint.
9 boxes and 11 bundles of writing flutes.
1 box ir.li stands and note prcfles.
14 bales of fail canvass.
And on hand,
Imperial )
Kyfon,and, V TEAS.
Souchong
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the firft'qaaftv.
19 tubs Qujcfc.(liver.
a chests Buiidanno lnitrdkerchiefs.
A few chests Manchester goodswell afTorted in Cor
" duroys, thitkfefs. Ginghams, Mufliuet; k
3 boxes blat k lewing fllk. . :
ISO crates Queent ware well afforteti.
10 tons (hett lead.
0 Nails afTorted, flat andftlrp pofntt.
i. ondon C " ISr ' I Madeira Wine in pipes
40 pipes *nd 10 h»g(heads Teneriffewine.
1 8 ilv t'crs Snake Rt;ot.
1 Jo Mahogany.
Mvj. _ _ ______ t'di&fif
Imparted in the late nrri"' ih from Europe and tiu
We/t'in'dsei,
r Holland Gin, In, pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and K»im
. Martinique MolafiVs, in hogiheads
Choice old Lilbori Wifa'e, 'ifi pipes and quarter-cn'fks,
London Particular k Lfinrl --,i Maffcet Madeira Wide,
in' f>ipes, ha'lf-pipeS arid Quarter-calks
Malrrrfey Madeira Wins, in pipes and
Tena-ifte Wine, in pipes.
> RuiTia & f lemiih fli.»ethig and Ravens Dm-k, in aafes
Window Glass, 3 by 19, in boxes
; Coflee Mills and Straw Knives, in casks
Mill S4\»s and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
A few chests of BoheaTei; Jcfnits Bark ; Aflafca
tida arid Tapioca s and a few baits of CtrfTaes,
' Bjftas, Curraßs, Bandanna .and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a cemplet.e assortment of 5-4 and 6-4
Bjulting Cloths. ,
For Sale by
Pragers & Co.
Oiflober i:-!-- . diwm&th>m
Irilh Linens, &c.
' Trhporitd per the Jhips Gldjgow, froth Dublin, Liber
ty, fnrt Cork, «*d btrg Mentor, from Beljbji,
4-4 and 7,-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
1 In whole and half boxes, . .
r Aborted from I id. to 4s. fteriing— Also 5- 4 wide
■ Sheetings, and low priced yarn and worfttd Hose.
On Hatsdy
7-g Wide Lawns.
Diapers and TaWe-Clothi
A few boxesTiekens and Checks
A few bales FlattnSls
Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, Nos. 1 and 6
»5 Boies > r 6 by 8,
jo Ditto > Window Glass, W 7 by 9,
5 Ditto J C. 8 by 10.
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled xo the
drawback, and will be disposed of by the packaire «n
reasonable ternls.
James, Clibborn & Englifli,
No. 6, N. Front-street. I
mth mo. 19th.
OLD
London Particular Madeira Wine,
In pipes, hogfiieads arid quarier-raflts,
Landing this day at Chefflut-ftreet Wharf, and
for sale by
Joseph Anthony & Cs.
Nov. I. J
THE PartserlWp of JONATHAN HARVEY St Co.
being this day Dissolved Ky mutual consent, rhcrfeindebt- '
ed to said firm are requelted to make speedy payment to 1
Jsnathan Harvey, who « authorized to receive the' (ime 1
and those who have any demandi will please to brine- in*
their aefD«tit» to him for settlement.
The Business will be Continued
By Jonathan Harvey,
AT ITIS STORE NO. 106, S. FRONT-STREET ■
Where he has for Sale, '
A general affortment : of Dry Goods
November 14, i- 9 f..
* /• ' tZii ' •'
To be Rented,
A complete Coach-Htufe,
With (tabling for four liorfes ; lituated near the
Univerlhy, with a pjflage into Market-street a PJ?'y>
for terms, at No. 49, South Front-street.
Nov- ay . .. .. ■ ■ ■r• ■: ■ J
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED, 1
Price 37 1-2 Cents.
The Pretensions of Thomas Jeffer
lon to the Presidency,
EXAMINED,
And the Charges against John Adanis
REFUTED.
Addrefled to the Citixens of America in general,
and, particularly,
To the Electors of the Prejident.
Sold by
W. YOUNG, MILLS & SON, Corner of Second
aad.Chtfnut-ftrsfits. _
November 5. tf *
FOR SAL E, t
A valuable Plantation,
IN Frederick County, Virginia, bounding nearly
mil?a on the. river Shenandoah, between Afhby's Gap
and Snicker's Ferry ; 66 miles from Alexandria, and the
like diftnnce froui the Federal City. It contains 1976 J
acres, 600 of which are eleared, the reKdue finely tim- j
"bated ; the whole Limetkone or Ri*er Bottom ; abounding
in fine ftrcams and springs j above 80 acres on the bank
of the riv|:r may be watered at pleafufe. It is capable
of being divided into Lots of 100 acre*, with water in
each, which renders it peculiarly convenient for grazing
, or culture. Its situation for Health or elegant improve
. Bient is not to be fi:rpaffed in any inland country, and if A
deemed too large for one Farm, may be divided into two
, or three smaller ones, uniting in common advantages.—-
Ttfcere is now eretfted on the tftate a good Merchant-
Mill, with two pair of stones (on a lanjelimettoiit spring)
tim rents for 466 dollars per ,iiui. and on mother never
fatling-fpring t good Saw Mill, with A flutter wheel i
there is plenty ol pine timber in the neighboring moun
tain, and a stream 1 efficient fat: another Mill with four
pair of lionet—- these are adjacent co fix infmediately on
the banks of the river, the navigation whereof is about
being opened into the Potomak and for itiore than 100
miles above the mills. The other improvements on the
£llate are a new commodious Barn, the loft of which is
capable of containing I too bulhel*; the tHfefhing-flfior is
41 feet fijuare, well pl;nked : another (double), Log
barn, with fireds all around : a Distillery, with three
large Stills, iod a Oil nary above t!)at will contain 500
bulhcls, well covered with Shingles, and a ilream of wa
ter, conducted by troughs, running ihro' it; at n fmal!
diilance is a large Cew-Houfe and Stable, with stalls for
. 21 cows, paved with ttone in the Eurpjeaa manner, with
room for above 40 wfcggon loads of hay ; a little further
>9 a Krong iloire-walkd Sprine-Houle, Completely fitted
■for k Dairy.——The whole of these X4ills and Brildirig*
•are at a proper diftaoce from each othtr, jukl from the
dwelling, which cunfiftj of three commodity* Frara-
Building,, with the conveoiehcies. A well cn
clol'ed Garden of the fined fail, with a ilrcam of water
riinftfiig tliro' It ; two large Apple Orchards; fcveral
.gjind tjtawr'di for building and lime Pone; a number Of
Oi;t-Houfe« for Manajem, BUckf.nith, Cooper, and lodg- (
i::gs for M.n of Colour ; —add greatly to the coftvehien- ,
cies and valiie of this ,£ftate..
The Purchaser, on paying one half the price agreed
for, may be accommodated with 3 coiiftjcrabre credit for '
the remainder, and with the Cattle, Horlis, Witggons,
Farming Utenuis, and I'urmtnre, at a reafonablc valufc
tiofj. For ohrr part...alart, application may b< made to • ]
the fubferiber on, , li/Vatc, to Thomas Ktzfimwns in "
, Philadelphia, or Mattßias Skmgh, Lanc'aftcr.
( J. Holker.
Springflinry, iffth O-flobcr, 1796 —,u.T Jaw 6
This Day will Landed,
From on hoard the brig Difoatrjb, Captait* P. Brum, .
from Malaga, at Morris's wlrarf, jail above the
Drawbridge, ,
F R E S H FRUITS, viz.
Raifnis, in kegs, boxes and balkets <
Figs in kegs j
Prunes in boxes
Grapes in jars !
Olfves in ditto
Lemons in c hefts !
Anchpvies in kegs ]
Almonds, foft Ihelled, in fackt
Also, <
Brandy in butts j
Sweet Mountain Wine in quarter-ralks— &c.
For Sale by
Peter Kuhn. ;
November 17. J5
S A L T P E.T'R E. '
A large quantity of Double-R,efined Sflt Petre for
lale at No. 15, Soulh Third-street.
November 5.
Best BoiionNova-Scotia Mackarei,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbl*.
47 hbls, prime Coffee,
Best Bnfton BeeFj
Codfiff) in hds.
Spermaceti. Candles,
Spermaccti, ar.d 1 „
Northern j '
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior '
quality.
A few boxel excellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent L'lfcon Wine.
A tew sacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Mufltns.
FOR SALE BT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Oflober gz. ■
A Philadelphia, November 6, 1796.
LL persons delirous to for furnilhing of
and Quarter-Mailers stores, for the
troops m Philadelphia or Fort-Mifflin, on Mud Iflaiid,
during the year i 7^~ are rtqwefledto fend their pro
poials iealed, on or before the firft day of December
next, to
_ TENCH FR \NCIS, Purveyor;
I he component parts of the Ilations, are
1 pound of Flour or Bread
I pound of Beef or 3.4 as a pound of Pork
1-a a gill of Rum, Brandy
or VVhrfltey
1 quart of Salt "|.
3 quarts of Vinegar i _
a pounds of Soap f *^ or ,c 0 Ratipns
1 pound ff C»j» tt lM j
Nov. 9
I— <4 • ■ •' w, . . | < • «
The brig Weft-Indian's Cargo
Will be . Landed on Monday morning,,
The 2\fl injlcnl,
| ■• ■ At South-"'"' Wharf,
From the North ft/if "f Jamaica-
ICQ *nd one barrel Coffne
13 Hogfl»-3d* of
lot Hogftesds high proof Kuru.
For Saii: by '
PETER BLIGHT.
November 19. 5*
For Sale,
By Jehu Hollingfworth, Iff Co,
45 hhds.*Wefl-India Rum, 3d **d 4th proof,
s Barrels best Indigo, and,
. A few thousand bufliels of Turk's lfland fait.
9ct. ty.
Just Landing,
, And for Sale, a quantity of
1 BOURDEAUX BRANDY,
FROM on board the tioonec Lydi? & Polly, Oliver
Jenkins jnafter, lyinp at Wilcock's wharf. For
terms, enquire on board said schooner.
November tyh. ' * ' ' '/j" "" " $** r
,j For hale,
> A Three-story PRICK HOUSE and I.»t, in Chefnut
: jfl street, between Front and. Second streets, in wfcjjh
> Melfrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
- now do) carried on business.
I Pofl'cffion will Ik given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
i HECTOR CALBRAITH.
1 Apr?l ai. ,
I Jult Landing,
f jit SouthJlreet wharf, from an hoard the fop Sedg
' ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peter/iurj,
The following Goods; .
) Rulfia Sail Duck, firft quality.
r Do. Sheeting do.
; Do. Diaper.
Do. Hujkaback.
r Do. Craßi
-3 Do. Mou'd Candle*, 4, 5 and.6, to tie lb. «f the
t Jc.ngHfh size..
a Do. White Candle Tallow.
: Do* White Soap in fmali boxes.
s Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
» Ravsos Duck, ,
; lfingjafs, and [»tvd fort.
e Horfc Hair uncurltd.
3 Russia Bar Iron,
Do. Hoop Iron.
II DOi Niil Rods.
r 10 Tons Oakum and Jcnk.
ii St. Pctci ifmrg Clean Hemp:
r For Sale by
1 Philips, C.ramond, & Ci.
* o>"«berr a. 1
- Fashion a?le Waistc'oating.
GEORGE DOBSONy Nv. 25,
1 •, N SOUTH THIRD-STREET,:,;
f Hot received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and ftrlped Spuiifh Swaufdpwn
Clouded Erminats and (Vloleflcins
, Striped do. and do.
r Figured Manillas
Scarlet figured Ermir.eta
Pririted fclorihetts
3 Do. Caffiuets a«,d CaffimereS
5 Superfine printed Quilting?, newei patterns
Also, per different arrivals,
A large and general aflortment of £)ry
Goods,
Suitable tb tilt present and approaching season.
November d t f
; : lauding, ;; m ~-
Out of different vrjels from England, and for fait
by the fubjerihers vn reasonable term/,
Superfine and common cloths, and caflimfra
Ribbed and striped do. do.
Blankets , mottled green and silk rugs.
blkie, Claret, atjd common coatings,
Kerfeys_, Bear-skins, plains and Halfthicks,
Swanflcins, Serges and Flannels,
Britjlh Ingrain Carpeting,
Hitsafforted in cases of jj doz. each.
Chocolate, chintzes, printed Callicoes and HasdkercMeft.
Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
Yarn, Worded, and Cotton hosiery,.
Beavers, Thickfetts, Velvets, Corduroy*, &c. & c .
Buff and drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality.
6d. Bd. tod. Ild. aod- nails, and frying parts, j
An affortnnent oflronmoogerry, Cutlery and a variety
of India cotton, and silk gauds.
r Thvmat £3* Jo/hua Fijk&r.
Air L , No. Dock-fttrect.
Also by the Glasgow from. Dublin,
t-8 and 4-4 Irifl» Linens affprted in boxes of 30 pieces,
d.o. Brown, Glazed Linnen.
o,a - 17. dtf:
For Sale,
By y. WARDER, PARKER Es 5 Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Conlifting of different sizes, from i» inch cables down
to rope of a inches, of different -lengths: Imported i*
the ship Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback
r Sept. t?. dtf
for sale,
A few hogfTieads of choice Nevr-England RUM,
A number of barrels of BEEF, and PORK,
And a few kegs of LARD, of a superior qua'll.ty.
Enquire at No. 71, north Water-street.
November 8, dtf
10 hogsheads St. Croix Rum,
S Pipes Vinegar,
For Sale, by '
[ E-zekiel HaH t
. Nov. 7 . No> i 0» Penn Street..
For Sale.
7 cases coarse hats
Copper bottoms and flieets
Shot, all sizes, patent and common
Sheet and barr lead
Englifli (hoes and boots in cases
Tin plates
Gold watches
Tauaton ale in caflcs.
Apply to ■!
Stmen Walker,
Nor j J ®4> s °- Fourth Street.
• *'-*• di 41.t ir ]•
Of ir.v lceu
<Uio Cithcart, rrom niiuant «cd 1 ju, inding
at the fubferibers' wharf—
18 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spaniih
3 ao of Annifeed
For sale by WILLINGS k FRANCIS.
. , Sept. 13. d .
Waihingtoa Lottery.
TICKETS, warranted undrawn, may be purchased or
exchanged for prizes, at the Office, No. 147, Chefnut
£ Cject, where a corre& Numerical Book is kept for publii
sttrpe<ftion. Also Canal Lottery Ticket* for sale ©r ex
changed (ir prizes diawn in the Waihington Lottery, of
which the 40th aad 41ft days returns are received.
•j£jT Th& Bnfinefs of a Broker, carried ori as usual.
• \+ A SHARE in the N£W THEATRE to be fold
"on reasonable terms.
November 14 ttstf
' v Washington Lottery.
The 40th and 41ft days' drawing of the Wafhingtcr.
l.dltery, No. 2, are received,at the office No. 134, Pjfar
ket-flrect, where tickets may he examined.
N. B.- Information given where tickets in all the other
lotteries may be procured.
November 17, '4
This Day fublifhed,
■By J* 0 R MR 0 , , <Sfc. 41, Che/nut-Jlreet
*«. (Price 20 cen?|fc
AUTHS
OFTIH : I , L N'©>TES
Fr6"> tht Mm'-fler of the Frencb+jjffylJblic to the '
Secretary of Stilly of the.
With a. Replipation to.thqfifnTNote,
• Ek tie Sec; etaa'v of Sjtifp
T iPOSALS^
COBBET I, oprofiw Ghrift Church, Phi- .
* puMithing by fubfeription,
ADAMS'S
Defence*of-the American Contlitutions.
t . CONDITIONS:
T I. The work shall be printed tmEnglilh wore-paper, page
fx Jnge, from the best London. Edition ; ot course it
wi:i bedompfized in three large octavo volumes.
41. Forthe.three volumes,: bound in boards, the, price to
fubferibers is to be only four dollars, and to non-fubferi
bers, five-dollars and ahajf.
01 The fubferineioir shall remain open for ten days, and
if an encouraging number of fubferibers ire obtained in
that time, the puMifhcr engages to have the work ready
for delivery in fix weeks from the present date.
15th November, 1796.
N. B. Subferiptions are t ten by the principal bookfti
lers of Philadelphia and New York
0- The fubferibers to the History/os Taeobinifm are res- I
peAfully informed, that. it will be ready for delivery
early next week.
Nov 16. §r.
Just Publiflied,
-By MATHF.W CAREY, at No. 118, Market-street,
PART FIRST OF
AnADD R E S S
To the ■ Electors of the Prejident of the
»' United States,
First publilhed in the Gazette of the United States, in
a series of papers unde» the signature of
"A FEDERALIST.
■Corttaiiitng fame ftricTiures on Mr, Adims's De
fence of the American Conltiiutions, and on the
Eflays ot PhocioN, since publilhe'd without tfcat
signature, in a pamphlet entitled " The prettnfions of
Thomas Jefferfon to the Presidency examined, and
the charges against John Adams refuted."
Not - "• -||3
W. Young, Mills,'and Son.
Have for Sale, a large affori men»'of
-PRINTING aftd WRITING PAPERS
Which will include 500 reams of fine demy wove print
ing paper.
Imperial Folio and Qjarto Roft, gilt
fnper-Royal Small' Folio Poll, plain,
oyal Ditto g^t
Medium BlofToni paper afiforted
Demy < Tranfparen't Folio Port
Thick post irvfolio Sup/firre&common Foolleap
( Ditto in 4to « Marbled papers
Extra large folio Post COARSE PAPERS.
Ditto 4to London brown allotted
"Folio Post wove Log-book paper
Quarto ditto Hatters' paper
Folio wove post lined , Stainers' paper
Quarto ditto do. Common brawn
Dit'Q gilt do. Patent sheathing paper
•Common fixe Folio Post Bonnet boards
ttSfittof quarto plain Bookbinders' boards.
ALSO,
A variety of other Stationary Articles :
-Viz. Wedgwood and glass philosophical tnkltands, well
assorted, pewter ink-chests of various sizes, rftund pewter
Snk-ftands. paper, brass and polished leather ink-stands for
( the pocket, fliining sand and sand boxes, pounce
andppuncc boxes, ink and ink-powder, black leather and
red morocco pocket books with and without instruments
of vajious sizes, counting-houle aed pocket pen-knives of
ilie best quality, afs-ftin tablet and memorandHm books,
red and coloured wafers, common fizc office do. quills
from half a dollar to three dollars per hnndred, black lead
pencils, mathematical inllruments, &c. &c. I
All forts and fires of blank-books ready made or made
to order, bank cheeks,- blank-bills of exchange, and notes
jJ hand executed in copper-pl»tc s, bills of lading, manifefts I
Jeauian's articles and journals, &c. &c.
A well fele<Sed colleilion of mifceilaneous books. AUo, •
,of Greek, Latin, and EnfWh Classics, as are now in ufc'
in ths colleges and schools of the United States. I
W. Young, Mills, & Son have ,just pubiifted in one 1
large volume 12 mo. Sheridan's Didiomry for the use I
of fcheoW, 1 50- rob dollars.—Alio the lame work large 1
Bvo. price three dollars.
N° v - 6. tawjw. j
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE. |
Ne. 63 South Third ftroet.oppofite the national new Bank.
OAMUEL M FR OUNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
O have entered into co-partHerfliip, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the Wmefs of Brokers, 4
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and' f
ftll on commiflion every fpifcies of stock, notos of haDd t
kills of exchange, houses and lands, &c. '
MqNET procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c' '
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and U
rfifpatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in tbe a
Bioit correal mnnner. Constant attendance will be given, f
foiicit a Ihare of the publit favor; they are deter- t
»ir.cd to endeavour to deferveit.
N. B. The Btmofl secrecy obf-rved.
SAMUEL M. FR.AUNCES '
JOWN VAN REED, ' I
Wibd. AVguft 37, 1796. mScwtf i.
For the Gazette or Tat United States.
g rnocioN-N-. xxv;.
[Concluded from jejftrdaj's Sazt'.U ]
THE pendulum is, however, admit,ted by Mr. Jef
ferfon to be liable ;p uncertainties, for which he of
fers no remedies : How does it appear that these
- uncertainties are not more important than the cau
ses of errors, to which his attention has been di
redtud i
r 3d. " Machinery, fays the report, p. 8. and a
- power are neceflary, which may exert a small, but
conftsnt effort to renew the waste of motion, but
~r so that they {hall neither retard nor accelerate the vi
brations."
But it adds in the next pjige —" To eflimate and
d obviate 'his difficulty is tbe artifl't province." What
is this, but ,10 fay that the fixnJmrd of tbe United
Stales ih ifl be the pesduium of some clock, made
by-Mr, Leslie, or some other artist, thus discarding ,
at once all reliance upon the principles before ad van
n ced ? The difficulty of afcenaining the center of
•- oscillation, (which he admits to be impossible, un
lefj in a rod, of which the diameter is " infinitely
T small-") he thinks however can bfc obviated by Mr.
Leslie, the watch maker.
Mr. Jefferfon then proceeds to apply his stan
dard.
( I ft. To meafurtt of capacity. These he propo
ses should be fowjided with re&angular fides and
fcoltom, for which he gives the following reason :—
Cylindrical measures have the advantage of superior
Jlrength ; but fqunre ones have the greater advan
" tage ot enabling every pne, who hajs a rule in his
pocket, to verify their content}, by measuring them."
Did it not occur to this profound mathematician,
that a man, with a rule in his pocket, could, as ea
_ lily me«fure the diameter and depth of a cylindrical
.is the fides and depth of a square box ?
2d. -,To iveights. The of weights is
proposed to be a definite partion of 'rain-water,
weighed always in the fame temperature. " It will
be neceflary, fays he, to refer these weights to a de
terminate mass of some substance, the fpecific gra
e vity of which is invariable T rain-water is such a
t substance, and may bf referred to every where, and
through all time.'' But the temperature is nut dft
-5 ned ; rain water is varied by several causes ; dull,
infefb, &c. will create a difference in its weight,
j The French, in their !at® plan, have outdone Mr.
n Jefferfon ; their standard is difldled water, afcertaiii
f ed by a defined temperature.
34. The report proposed to change
the value of "the dollar, or ratjyr to cwn the dollars
•f the United States of a different vrJiv- from the
L current dollars. The effect o"t this fyftert lo which
f he could not have adverted, w«m!d b« to the
debtors througfcout the United Sutes pay mi* for
. all exiSißg engagements than they' had
to pay, for he proposed to make,an addrtion-oFhvh
, grains of silver to the proper weight of the dollar,
without a proportional augmentation of its K-gal
value. Tlieincoßvenienceß of this plan were afirer-
wards judiciously pointed out in the report on the
' mint by the late secretary of the treasury, whose fy£
t«m was preferred and adopted by congress.
t Notwith(landing the numerous defedts and errors
in Mr. Jefferfon's report, he seems to have been ee-T
ry liberal in his extracts from pre-exiftirig wotks.
e Almost the whole of that part of the report, which
t relates to meqfures, is evidently copied from reportt
f of committeet of the house of common:, which were
i made to the years 1758 and 1759, which commit,
tecs he Hates to have been affilted by able mathe
maticians and artists : he subjoins, 46 that the cir
cutnftanccs under which these reports were made,
entitle them to be considered, as far as they go, as
, the best written testimony of the standard weights
» and measures existing in England, and as such would
be relied on by,him."
After making free use of these report, and
dating all the varietiesof measures in England, he
candidly coafeffes, " that he is not informed whe
ther there have been any and what alterations of these
, measures, by the laws of our Jalet." Now, this
wss certainly a very essential part of his dtuy : if,
tnftead of ether hurrying his repott, to make a dff
play of prodigious fnduftry and wonderful intuition,
or devoting his time to visionary speculations, octo
the altering and reforming of all his calculations,
to adapt them to »1!? French projea,'he had fought
for the laws of the American Rates, relative to the
fubjeft, he might have obtained much ufefgl infor
mation, on which congress would been enabled to
. ai » whereas, his report contained fa little that was
i °i * n y real ttt'hty, that congress, at the
r of fix years, have not derived the fmalleft'advan
r tage rrom his labours. It is th» more furprifinif
. that he (hould have neglected this effeßtial duty, be
-1 cause, on another occasion, when anxious to vindi
» cate some of the dates from the reproach of having
, ,he «««y w«h Great-Britain, he was v«ry
, diligent in procuring every date law, record of
1 court, and document which might tend to support
his favorite do&rine
; We (hall now take leave of Mr. Jefferfon and
bis pretentions, as a philosopher and politician
!hc <:BBt,ld and 11 "prejudiced, wh ? have read with
. attention the foregoing comments on hfs philoso
phical and political works, and en his public con
, diidt, nuift now be canvinccd, however they may
have hitherto been deceived by a plausible (.ppear
' anct ? and fpeclolls talents, or milled by Aefignine
partizans, that th'e reputation he hai acquired, h:>s
not been bottomed on solid merit ; that his abilities
have been more directed to the acquirement of li
terary fame, than to the fubftantid good of h's
country j that M» philosophical opinions have been
Wavering and capricious, often warped by the mol>
f his political con
, uutt he hjs been timid, inconfiftcnt and Knfteadv
I favouring measures of a fa&ious and diforgsnilin
' , C uv77- '• V to those w hich would ef
popularity, however definitive of our
and tranquility: that his political principles
are sometimes whimsical and visionary, at others
fnbverhve of all regular ai ) d tUble government ;'
that his wntin ßS have betrayed a dfrefpet3 for reli
f«v ,0 * l ( ° r imp '" US Paine ' an
em> to chrfliamty ; that his advice, refpc6tir.g the
Dutch company, and his open countenance Jf an
incendiary printer, and of the views of a faction
■ A
a mam'fell a v**nt of due regard fur national faith and
public credit; that his abhorrence of tine foreign na
tion, and enthujiajiic devotion to another, have ex
tinguifiu-d in him every germ of real national cha
raSer; aud, in (hort, that his elevation to the
- PresidenCy, must eventuate either in the debasement
( of the American name, by a whimficai, inconfif
}' tent and feeble ad mini II rat ion, or in ths. prof ration
of the United States at the feet of France, th cfub
■ verjtcn of our excellent cptijlitution, and the conse
quent definition of our present r^'^ loN
a
Philadelphia, November 24.
1(1 Latest Foreign Intelligence.
3t '
Ext'rafls from Paris papers to the 14th of o<3ober
le brought by the Dilpatch from de-Giace,
> translated for the American Daily Advertiser.
COLOGNE, Oflober 3.
; are the conditions of neutrality
j? concluded at Neuwied on the 30th ult. between the
French and Austrian Generals.
, 1. The city of Neuwied, the castle and iti ap-
cannot be occupied by any troops, ei
ther French or Austrian.
■j * 2. The advanced pods of the refpe&ive corps
fh'all be removed from eaefi other ohc hundred and
fifty paces, viz. The French to count from the
7 last house on the right fide of the city, and th*
• s Auftrians from the last house to the left of the citt
it and from the fence of the Court Garden.-
, 3. In virtue of the prelent treaty, the Frrtwfa,.
l ' troops (hall not attack the city, nor th(? Austrian
.1 generals conllruA offenfive or cfefenfive woiks, which
? may damage the bridge on the Rhine.
;j 4. There (hall be a French and an Austrian offij
cer eflablithed in the city, pharged to anfwerfor the
|| infringement of this article. •'
5. The line of centries in the plain, will be ruled'
according to military law, aud in a manner compa
a tiblewith the polition of the two corps of troops.
6. All the fortification works. conltru&eJ in the
; city, (hall bf razed under the iufpeftion of the raa
giftrate.
7. To avoid all species. of raifundepftanding, it
is mutually agreed, that no soldier, eifher'French
!. or Austrian, (hall enter into the city, without an
express permission from his chief. The established
e officers at Neuwied will take care to have this ar
, tide executed. A duplicate of the piefent treaty
e has been delivered to th- magistrate of Neuwied.'
e - PARIS, Odober 10.
r The Dunkirk floating battery has perilhed in
d harbour by tbe explofioo of the powder on board,
e A Angle man, out ps fifty nine who corapofed the*
xcretf has alone feee«t saved.
tl October 12.
P.eace is made with "the King of Naples. The
e signed the day before yesterday. It re- j
fcmble* hot that conclude® with the King of S?.<tv [
dinia. ' Tbe King of Naples is to make any. f
■s cession of territory. He agiees only to allow cep-J
taia commercial advantages, he excludes the Etigliih 1
from his ports until a peace, and proeiifes reparati
!i on for the outrages coaiaaitted in 179-2, again ft our
r amlwlfador at "Naples.»
e To this treaty was joined a meflage by which the
> Dire&ory ask for new funds in support of the war.
They announce some hopes of peace,,; that negoci
•- ations with England will be opened'; that the Ca
■, binet of St. James mean to fend an agent ; btK,
s that he is not yet arrived. They mention tbe ne- jl
s ceftty of (hewing a refojution to carry on the war,
d with vigour, if the obftinapy of onr enemies render
it necessary, in order to insure the acceptance ofjuft 1
d and reasonable conditions of peace. j
e -At one o'clock this morning, the Military Com
s million sentenced to death, Huguet, Javoguer, Cuf- ■
e set, Babi, ex-conventionalists ; Gagnant, painter.
s native of Paris : Bertrurt, ex-Mayor of Lyons ;
f l , Bonbon, ' (hoe-maker, native of Orleans j Pitoy,'
joiner, native of Champlitte ; Lafeod, shoemaker, '
i, native of Montbrifon. ;
0 Several others were sentenced to imprifbnment for 1
i, different periods, and some liberated. 1
t Prince Henry of Pi uffia has published and dedi-J 1
e cated to the French Republic a posthumous ""t.' L j
- for Diderot. He has been received a member off
3 our national institute.
« OFFICIAL NEWS. X*
e ARMY of theJSAMBRE and MEUSEA
- Letter from Jourdanj General in chief, to the.arrrTyt
t of the SSTTftr? and MSfflS? dated Deutz,Third*, .
Vendemaire (Sept. zj.)
fnfifmities, caused by the multiplied fatigued of
the, War," nave obliged me to solici t my' | ,
y Accustomed to regard you as my children, you may .
f judge of the regret which I feel in feperating from I
t you You have been night and day the obieft of i
ftiy Micitudes. Though al.lent, you will (till be
j la. My foul, my heart will follow you every where.
. One thing alone alleviates my sorrow on quitting I
, .you; it is that I leave youin the hands of an ex° '
. penenced officer, whose virtues and whole talents
prcfags the most happy success. General Bournon
, villc takfcs the provifTonal command of the army Te i
. conded by the by whom you havJ '
, been so often conduced to viaory. 1 (hall learJ
s with infinite pleasure, in my retreat, your glorioul \
s exploits. Preserve your eftecm and friendfhip fo[ •
. me ; I trust I merit ihemboth ; and pity me thai
s am °bliged to ba fepaiated from you. 1
» JOURDAN. f |
of a letter from General Bournonvitle, com- 1
, rnander in Chief of the army of the Sambre and 1
Mcufc.
Head-Quarters, Mulheim : 8 Ven- r
demaite, (Sept. 30.) 1
1 The division (lately Marceau'sj provifonly com. t
, raanded by the general of brigade at
: lacked the day befoie yesterday by three columns f
• of the enemy. One of the columns passed the t
■ Sehx at Sielingen-Lsch, and polled itfelfonthe t
Plateau of Wufllatt ; the fecor.d posted ilfdf on fc
and the third on Obcrcnidcr. The
atvaj has been repulsed every where. One fqua- i
■> -v , V I
; • . ..-p.. • v ■ ,
t
,\.-XUk :w
4. TK««lefl®r of.Blvann ffiall pay into Flie I
of the paymaster of the army of the#lhine ai e! n
Moselle, ten millions of livie*,«-in Frenchl or Ger- d
man fpeeie, at French eurrcncy, or 111 bills of ex
change, or in bullion.
5. The eleflor of Bavaria Itiall furnifh 300 fad- ti
die horses, 600 cavalry horses, 500 dragoon horses, k
and 1500 artillery h >rfe«. ■■ ' J'
6. The elector of Bavaria (hall ftirnifh, within Ir
fix weeks, 200,000 quintals of gtaia, two thirds of tl
which {hall be wheat, and one third rye ; 100, coo
quintal* of oats j 200,000 quintals of bar ; aad he
fliall furnifh belides 100,000 pairs of (hoes, and
. jo, 000 pairs of boots } or, otherwifc, ,$0)000 els "
of officer's cloih.
7. In cafe that the operations the war (hall "
Remove the army ftotfi Bav.rria, and that tlie con
tribution* in kind Ihnll be deemed iiqneceffary, it '«
(hall be in the ptfwrr of tlieLrencii to o'erna»d|a 0
proportionable futn in fpe; ie. "
g. It (hall be-permitted to Inch French art ills as 0
the government fliall *pp *»»r, to choose out of the ti
* galleres of Munich an«l DefleUorfF, twenty pic
mres, which (hall be delivered to the French gov- p
ernment accordingly. , \('
9. His ferine highness (hall forthwith fend to 11
Pans, to the Direaory, a plenipotentiary to nego
tiate a fcparate peace with the French tepublie. n
Done atPiaffe nh often, ihe 2 ill Fru&idor. c
(Signed) MOREAU, yem ral in chief. ll
The baron defckYDEN.
The coiiiit CH A R Ij-ES d'A RCO, See.
ARMY 0 • IT A I.T.
Extract of a letter fiorn- Buonaparte, com
mander in .-.. f of the"army of Italy, to the
executive direfiforv.
Head quarters at Milan, the 10th
Vcndemaire (Oft. l)'sthyear.
After the battle of St. George we ttied t6 draw
Wnrmfer into a second ei gagement, in order to
weaken his garrison by fiequent engageneuts out- j
fide of the walls; we therefore took good, care not j
to occupy the Seraglio, in hopes that he would
i- ■ Jraw up on the fame. We continued only to oc
cupy the bridge of Governolo in order to facilitate C
the pafTage of the Mincio.
On the 4th supplementary day the enemy went .
with 1,500 men, cavalry, to Carteljecio. Our 1
picquets fell back as they had been ordered. The a
enemy went no farther: the 2d Vendemaire they t
matched towards Governolo, following the right 1
bank of the Mincio*, after a vety lively I r
and several charges by our infantry, they wete 1
touted, a«d had eleven hiindred taken ptifoners, j 1
iive cannon with caiffoons completely fixed.
General Kilmaine, to yhomS I had given the '
command of the two divisions which besiege Man- '
tua, remained in the f rne volition until the Bth,
hoping th t the enemy, 'from a desire to obtain so- ■
rane, would attempt a sally ; but the enemy had I
'erirampH at the Ctrartreul'c before the gate of i
P.Adella and at the Chapel before the gate of Cre- '
net). General Kilmaine made his difpofnions, and 1
«tttac|ced ihe two tan ps in different points, which
the e emy evacuated at his after a flight !
fit? of mufqiVtry of ihe rear guard.
Tlie" out potts of general Vaubois have encoun <
tered the Audiian divifioii which is to defend Ty
rol, and has taken 1 10-priFoners of t4w ciremy.
. BUONAPARTE.
1
Trewjlht'ed for ihe Aurora.
f X PA R IS, October 14.
Can it be true that the exer.it ive dire&ory should '
/have refolvid to address the following to 1
j the/nvoy of Great-Britain : " Will England
i Jy and immedi ttly treat for a fcparare peace with
us!" And that, if the question is answered in the 1
• I negative, it will be notified to the envoy, that the
negotiation is at an end.
J Report fays, that the resolution exists. We
! think it our'duty to conjurc our readers, not to place
/ any confidence in fuclt reports. Indeed, would
i such a rtf lution not amouni to the fam«4ung as a
I second declaration of war.
I \ ARMY OF ITALY. .
Extract of a letter from general Angereau, of the
iecond complementary day, Sept. 18,
. ' All the Adrians who at this moment combat in
V' Italy, are (hut up in Mantua, with Wurmfer their
: geiiefat. How he will fOrbfift there I know not,
• with 20,c00 men, 4000 of whom are cavsrhy. Our
lofi has been far from con(iderable in the late bat
tles.
Our army blocks up Mantua. Gep. Vaubois is
advanced beyond Trent, to keep in check ihe eije 1
my who may remain in the German part of Tyro),
and to fee lire the communication which is to be ti- •
seiSed with this army and that of Moreau. Reire
forcemems ire daily arriving, which will enable u«
to-fend a column to Tried and even against Rime
and Naples, it ne cflary, since the sovereigns of the
two latter countiies are of bad faith.—(La Senti
neHe.)
/ BRUSSELS, October 7.
t Whilfl the Auftrians were attacking the tcte-de
,/pont of Neuwitd, the archduke Charier, at the head
of 15,000 men, endeavoured by fore d marches, to
gain the. rear of Moreau's army, in order to con
!cert with the generals La-taur, Nauendoif and Pe
trach, new plans of a tack against the army of the
g. Rhine and Mpfelle. He fer.t a coips of 10, COO
men, united with the garrison of Mentz, towards
the Hundfrurk. The remainder of his army, con
filltng c f 20,000 men, is encamped at &
ieveral squadrons of cavalry, f H pported by infan
- try, hover about in the vicinity of the 9ieg, where
at! .is quiet at present. When'the archduke set off,
he _gave the command of the army of the Lowe.
-Rhine to general Werneck.
Otoer and dif< iphr.e Kegin to revfve in the army
of the Sa.mbre and Menfe. Confidence is restored
among the troops ; and we believe that the array
.of the SambreHnd Meufe, reinforced by the 7 (h
-division of the army of the North, confilung of
10,000 men, will ait offsnfivcly and with fuc
crfs. s
However, defernan hp.s not entirely yet',
-and many of who endeavour t0 rt / ach
the JiKrior cf the reimblic, continue to pass b>
«. • *
. i
Luxembutgh anj t'le CtlM Bosr
nonvllle has issued severe or4er"s to nrrjw; and con
dtift them to their refpcdlive regiments.
Precise orders h.ive been give/i in this city, to "
stop and visit all the coachesand equipages coming 9
from the army of the Sambre and Meufe. It is
known that some honorable commissaries endeavour i!
to fend home the fruits of their robberies and pil- "' v
lage.—ConfiJerahile Aims in fpecic, flowing fram tl
that fcnrce, have already been feir.ee!.
PLYMOUTH, September 25. It
This day,, during divine f«?rvice at Charles's church C
of which the Rev. Dr. Hawker is Vicar, Capt. k
I. Pelew, and thcfmall remnant ol his gallant crew, u
returned thtrks to Almighty God for their miracu- q
liJus efcap* from the jaws of death, on the blow- 11
ing up of his Majelfy's (liip Amphion, in Hamoaze, h
on Tfiiirfday lalt. The con(rre)/aiii)n, which was i«
very numerous, was visibly affected on this folertln ti
occafian, and a fnifable sermon was preached by e
the Rev. I>r. Hawker. C
Mrs. Spry, of Dock, has loft 011 board the Am- tl
phion, her hufjand,brother, and her only son-—her t
feelings on this melancholy event can Icarcely be d
imagined. , a<
A lid of men saved from the Amphion, tranf- si
mitted by admiral fir Richard King, commander in p
chief of his maj' (ty's (hipsand vessels at Plymouth, p
ts Mr. Nepean. n
Captain Israel P-.-llew.
Lieutenant J.imes Muir. p
Mr. James Hang, armourer. I a
Mr. Henry Haytvood, master's mate, not hurt. d
Mr. Kerr ry Motitandsn, boa'fwaiti. j 0
PR\LA n'ELPItTA, c
THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 14, 1796. (
*»* In the Drawings of Walhington Lottery, r }
11. ptjbli'h-d yefterdsy, for 12150 a prize of 10 dol- L
lars, read a prize of ico dollars, V
t
The foreign'articles from Parrs pap'rs in this day's c
: Gazette are chiefly copied from the American Daily t
Anvedifcr.
In the Aurora of this morning there are the follow
ing variations from tbefe tranilations—
Moreau's letter Mr. Bache has dated October Ift
and id —we have seen the Paris paper which contains c
tlie article j it is therein dated Vendemaire loth and v
• t ith, anfvt ering to o(fl6ber «<1 and 3d. The Aurora
, I makes Moreau fay, that he hail taken eight hun- ]
.[ DRED PRISONCRS and THIRTY-FIVE OFFICERS. Mr. r
I 1 Claypoole's piper fays 300 prii'ontrs, and FivE*offi- r
cers—this agrees with the French paper.
Genera! Ernouff and his Son, are arretted at /j
_ ! Bruffells.
, . If the heroic exploits and victorious carter of ih e j
- Archduke will probably end in the dedruttion
i the.vi&orious army, then tlie army over which th r
f J Archddke has beeß victorious, becomes itfelf th®
. vi£lorious army, and is placed in the fame fruatlon
i with the ar my of the Archduke ; ergo, they, the
1 French, according to this doctrine of the Aurora,
t nw'ff themselves, when they Owl! become victorious,
he alfu annihilated in their turn. Thus v/ill they
all be annihilated tegether! — ,
BALTIMORE, November 21.
On SatuVilay evening la it t the entertainments of
the New-Theatre doled for the ftfalon, wilh the
Rage, the Poon Sold;er, and other exhibitions.
Between the play and farce, Mr. Wignellappeared,-
j and addressed a crowded audience to the following
, efied :
Ladies and Gentlemen,
5 The company's performance for this fesfon closes
f this night, ,wilb (he exhibitions. Ctiftom has pre
e scribed it as a rule to come forward, and return «ur
warmed thanks for the encouragement with which -
c you have honored lis—this 1 do sincerely, 011 my
e own part, ihe part of Mr. Reinagle, my < olleugue,
j «r.d ihe company in general. We propose meetjpg
a you early in the spring, with a conliderable rein
forcement to our present company, at which timej
we hope again to be honoured with your patronage*
eln the mean time, permit me to affure*ou, of out
flncerell withes for your individual health and hap
piness, and the general prosperity of the town of
■ r Baltimore.
r, 1
ir QjfZRTTE OF THE UNITED STjtTKS MARINE LIST.
PHILADELPHIA, November 24.
ARRIVED. -Days
1, Ship Arethiifa, M'Kown, New Castle on Tyrie 44.
f-' Bat que Eagle, Bates, Madeira 70
v- Bug Mercuiy. Rockwell, Malaga Sc Gi 1 r >:• 60
W Maiy, William, J ;; .?0
ie Betsey, Memihger, Jereroie 35
ie Snow Bodon, Kirkpatiick, Fapl 20
i- Scltr. Phcem*. Hill, Virginia 5
Betsey & Nin y, Yellowby, N. Cer„!i...i 8'
Hiram, White, D;, !o .
Flawed Baf»,' Di-io 7
: . Sr °°P Pf'ly. Butler, Norfolk c
A CLEARED.
o Brig Maria, Latimer, . St. Thorns
Sfoop Hope, Gladding, K . (fi3n<!
I'av«nte,Sage, . Newbern
e „ , Morr ' on Havre on tSe
Q Ibtli October, in company with ship Car-%e, of
Is The schooner
, ntri '. l Greene, and brig , are arrived at C
3c f 1 ' ranC °' B .[ r ° i m P° rt - Ship Hope, Bajnbridge,
)- lonlI on l r u rM t0 Bordeaux ,» spoke Oil the
. t , Banks <t N. I'. L. 29 days out, all well.
r For the Gazette of the United States.
y No. VIII.
d To the Eleßors cf the Prudent of the United State,.
y Rcjpdlab/c Fellow Citiuns,
'' COLLA 1 ERAL ciicumllances are often pnw
if etful corroooratiyes of direst evidence. It is there
:- fore 01 corrftquenee to (late, that an accident ha>
, recently brought tinder view a passage in one of the
t- papers written with every apparent ey.iion^ainft
h Mr.jeffcifonin . 792, j„tt before the lad eledtcr.
y c i a rrchcent, when it was uncertain whether ge
,
" - ,
• -I—a! Waging!o" v/osld serve again. Th; wrifsr,
though an exptttit a.id inJuftrious opponent < f
Mr.cJefTerfon, admits, 'hat Mr. Adams entertains
0 whit he ingenicvjlt calls " fpecvlative doubts con o.
rr cerninjr tile pvotdSrl? fucccfs of the repul.ican the- r
3 ory." Pr-adical..politicians soon aitu to execute
r their ta ::\tal Speculations. The paper referred to
. was the iir.t of a series of efTays, published under
n thfe fignatare of Catullus, in the Gazette of the
United States. Who was the writer of Catullus <( .
does not appear, but it is perfe6lly # certain that the
letters of Phocfbn (since published in a pamphlet P£
b October 1796 without that signature) contain en
tire paflages of the eflays of Catullus, without the
usual inverted commas £"3 or any other marl: of
1- quotation. The presumption that and Ca
iiilhis arc the fame person or perfonAeppears to t j y
•, be perfectly fair and irrefiSable. no ef- del
is -lential fclie entire contents of Cs- Of
n tullus and an equn! quantity of the efTays of Ph«- gat
y cictn. Matters subsequent to the publication* of Juo
Catullus are found, it is true, in P.iocion and in j ' "
the pamphlet made up of what was firlt "given in P a
■r the gazettes under that signature. They contra- Jus
e didl each other only as to Mr- Adams. Ca'ullus th<
admits that Mr.' Adams may doubt the probable . the
f- success of the republican theory. Phocion and the po
n pamphlet declaim a little' about Mr. Adams's re
1, publicaniim, and quote n few paflages, which only
tend to render his books something less imprbdent _
—bat so far as they go, also render it abfo!utely and
palpably inconjijlent. But the efTays- of Pho ion
and tlie revised pamphlet-copy of part of his efTays
do not explain away any'of the hereditiry paflages A
of Mr. Adams's books, nor do they answer the
■ objections, which have been refpe&fully submitted
to you. Phucion, whoever he may be, iS a man
of pietty ready and he does not want zeal, Ai
time or induflry ; for he has already published twen
ty-four long efTays. Whether he cannot falisfaiSo- re '
rily explain Mr. Adams and countervail the evi
l_ deuces of the monarchical and ariflocraticiA princi
ples of that gentleman, or whether he is unwilling
to do f» from a fimilarityof principles, or from fume
's other views, are qutllirfns before tht clcftorS and Hi
y the world. ful
Another collateral circumflance worthy of feri- f o<
'* ous reflection, is drawn from some ideas, which i."
n arc uiklerftood to have been published in Boflon in _,]■
, s certain edays under tl;« signature of Publicola, and r e;
1( i which have been sfcribed.to Mr. Adams, jun. toi
-a They were written as a partial reply to " Paine's '/
»- Rights of Man,'' in 1791 ; and have been since
republifhed in London with the following title and
l " motto in .1793. They were evidently considered p a
in England as calculated to defend the British con tic
/flitution, as it then flood, from any material changes hi:
"*• .jjralterations. The title is as. follows : " /InfiOer
tol'ainr's Rights of Mon, by 'John /,Idams, esquire, o r
> originally printed in America." Motto. "It is C o
1 not a mechanical horror againfl the name of a king
1 or of ariflocracy, nor a phfical antipathy to the
found of an extravagant title, or to the fight of an .
1C \nnoecn\. ribbfind, thai can author ifc a people to lay
! » violertt hands upon the confli: utiou." This bqok
s < was rfad by the council for tire king ip Mr. Paine's
Y trial*, the eflays of Publicola hid been firfl
published in England, it would not so much have
-iaee.l ihe people of America, because tbr
clearly icnpjietl" defence of the English conrtitution
would trot have placci under their coiifidera
te tioti as cither a matter imerelting to them, or n a
s. ircatife tending to impair their attachment to the
J, provisions tlf their own national conftitntion fiveral I
ig paflages and particularly by-holding up the opinion
that any poli ieal evils in England Could
not be correClly attributed form of govern
<ts ment, though totally opposite in inordinal ptin
e- ciple, to ours. " The principal and jnoft danger
ur oui abules in the Englilh g,ovcr;mient" (fays out
- 1 ' author, diftingiiifhing it from their contHtiuion, p. al
18) " arise 1 fs norin the defrfti inherent in the 1
ie, conf/itntion, than from th« (late of society j the uni- b
n g Derfal iiena/ity and corruption, which pervades all o
u- clajfes of men in that ling Jam, and which a change L
ie( ot government could mot reform." It is not ad- 11
fe. mitted by'the writer, that there are any defects in- 1
ut l.erenl 'in the conllitution, though-hereditary; nor "
p- is it at all objeifti d to, thoogh all the powers arid
of virtues of the Enalifh eonlli ui ion, with a Chtiftian
hieiarehy te) aid them, have not been efficacious to
keep univerfdl -venality and corruption from per-oad
ing all c asses of men in that kingdom.' Though
the inter.nr affairs of Great Britain are reprcfctited r
by our amlior as thus universally fordid, and vitiat
etl, yet we find he entertains a caveat againfl afejrb- t
iy« ' i'tg theft evils tt> the couftiturion. The
t'icn, that " chance" or "providential" govern- 1
Mrs in' rulers save us fii.m corruption and
(l Q fiaud, tnull af[ei all i>e It would have \
\o tlccl ' inllruftivt,-perhsps, if we had been informed 1
; hiw these things crept into so welt balanced and «
'20 u^endj'iib a govM iinieiit. We cannot but expect,
Hiat our American divi/ans and balances of powers ®
g. v»'ll work much better. Let us guard agiinlt/KC- {
/nations ller-d'itary power and all its expe
• .ie--:fvtfe.-rLet us extend the of national I
Inflation— Let us not exhibit the political sole 1
cilsn 4>t giving powerful feeonds to our chief magi,
las "rate, who derive an independent authority from
nd ot ' K ' h urtes, ttran the national will, and who are
, rn not amenable to a national tribunal—Let us borrow
Se at leait this one ufeful hint from our French allies,
of wh " do not orrit ! things that executive pow
Ic r ,r °/ or eighteen departments he held from I
q the inhabitants of fueh a grand division, with little ,
fe, ur _ nc > amenability ro the nation or to the national r
h c tribunals. In snort, let us rather study to eradicate 1
the leejs of imbecility, of ftutiuation, and of evil !
from out ineftirmiblc federal rcptetentative govern-
merit, and Ist us labor to invigorate this truly re- c
publican confli tut ion, rather than to devote our- a
fe Ives to a love 'for a foreign c^iditu.ion, [which, is 1
" ot ' what ,r P r '>ttflcs to be, or for a theory of or- c
dcrsl and rauks, which has never realized. \
Modern Bri.ain, as we have seen, is governed in
w r.<ct by little more than a two-hundredth part of
te her adult males. Of cyurfe no real or even virtual e
>a» representation of the people is combined with the 1
" r king and nobles. 1
oft [77* remainder of this K-umber To-Morrc<w.~\ <
Je tion. S£B GuWley ' s tliai of faiae » P- "6, Dublin edi-
T *
■ i - '''' jr£ : SSe',.'' ~ ~ & " > -
111 HI 111 IN — -
r - 1 ......
YOU r -»i-w£t.-r
of two .'etes.rs flora Mr. John Adaks, (bow Vxcc-
Prefidcnt of the United States) dated
Philadelphia,. July 3. *776.
ts Yefterdav was decided the yreaiclt u hich
was ever debated in Amcrica : and a g reader peihapj
never was, or will toe decided aro-ngU men. A 1 evo
lution uas palled, without one ililTcnting colony, that
" theJe UNITED colonies are, and of
RIGHT OUGHT TO EE, I ? i<E£ AND INDE
PE NDENT s rates."
" The day is parted.-Tn« fecor.d day of July, 1776,
• will be a memorable epocha in tlre hillory <n Anicri.
ca. I am apt to believe it will be celebrated by Suc
ceeding generation?, as the great anniversary tel
tival. It ought tci be" cumrtieraiiwlnl as a day of
deliverance, by folt-mn atlsgf devotion to almighty
God. It ought to be solemnized wit-U posup fbows,
games, iports, guns, bells, bonfires n»: illumina
-1 tions f om one end of this continent to the » ther, from
' this trme forward forever. You will think me trans
ported with enthafialm ; h*ft lam not. I am \vclt a
j ware of the toil and blond, and treasure th.it it will cost
; maintain this declaration, and I'upporc and defend
these liates ; yet, through all the gloom, I can fe<; that
the end is worth more than all the .means, and that
posterity will triumph, although you and I may .rue,
which X hope we fhaJl not.
J am &c.
JOHN ADAMS."
f 1 . •- - •■■■! v ' " "«i '- ■ ■
For Sale by John J. Parry,
1 K'o. 38, 5. S-nond near Ujffnui-Jlrett,
1 A few excellent GOLD WA'fCiIES,
Fxom Forty to 'J.ac Hundred L'oilaKs, .
And SILVER WAiCH E S,
1 Of various prices —all warranted.
, An afTortment of Chains, Seals, Keys, and Trinkets,
Eight Day Clocks fuppiitd, and C oeks & Watches
repaired with dispatch and great care.
Best Watch GiafTes by the groce.
November ia. tuf&ssw
To the Public.
: BY a pnhlicatinn in fcveral iiewfpap--r«, finned PeteP
' Helbron, paflor of the "Holy Trinity 'Church, we the
fubfenbers, and lawful Trufteß6 of :b- German religious
. foiicty of Rrman Catholics of the H ly I rinity Church
in tlio city of Philadelphia, take this method of inforrn
' ing the public in general, that the Rev. Peter Helbron,
1 alias Pallor, was dismissed and discharged for certain
I reafo'm, or. the 15th uT Odlober la'ft, from all future Pas
. torSl services and funftient in said Church, and on the
s 17th inltaut he was paid in full for his salary, and of all
demand* whatsoever, according to his receipt; and we
do hereby fleclare, that on the r6th of this month the
Ucveread John N. Goetz was uuanimoufly elcSed the
1 Paflor, pro tempore, of the said Church aud Congrega
tion, he having therefore the bed authority of ftylmg
5 himfelf as Paflor of the German Religious society of
Roman Catholics of the Holy Trinity Churth in the city
of Philadelphia, and nobody else whatsoever has any claim
» or tclaims- Given under our hands, and the seal of the
* corporation, Philadelphia, November iijd, i yg6.
t Adam Prcmir,
r Michael Shindler, '
1 George Ginther,
AtfthonV Hoocky, _ „
Gei>rgs Lacch!er,jr. Truften.
Clerics Baftiau,
6 Charles Bouman,
\ James Oel!er»,
<• - Seoretarius.
v .
Jaft Arrived,
In the brrigs Twins and Aambier. a quantity of
a Choice St. Croix SUGAR and RUM,
c and about
il 15.0,b00 Weight of Fine Green COFFEE.
Nt <t by
d "James Tard. ,
1- November 14. die
" &■ 'The M EMBERS
r " Of St. Andrews Society,
" Are requeued to attend their anniveriary meet : ng
at Oellcrs's Hotel, on Wednesday next the 30th iilit.
161 Dinner to be cn the tabic at 1 o'clock. The rnejn
:• bers will please apply for tickets of admiCion to cither
i/l of the following gentlemen, viz. Meli™- Thomas
, e Leiper, Gaven Hamilton, jun. Dr. Andrew
Robert Henderfon, James Ikndei'foß, W-illiim H.
Tod, qr John Shields. offiiers us the lociciy
will please give their attendance a s one o'clock.
Jr By order of the Society,
'd RICHARD LAKE, Sec'ry.
in November 24, 1796.
to
'l h Lottery and Broker's Office,
' , A r o. 64, South Second street.
' I 'ICKETS in the Canal No. a, for sale—a
Check Book for exainulation—and prizes paid in
b* the lite lottery.
e ( Check Books kept for ctaminatioti and'r gifferine, for
n . the City of Wafliington, No. a, and Pattefon I'tntL.riet,
id ' )ota °f which are now drawing—information where
tickets itc to be had, and priz'ci exchanged for undrawn
ve tickets. lifl of the prizes in the lareNew
trd Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
id examinafion.
Tllc fubfcrib»r solicits the application of the public
atid his friends, who wish to purcbaft or fell Bank Stock,
* Certificates Bills of Eichange or Noteg., .IJoufes, Lands,
Sec. or to obtain money on depolit of propeity
ie " ***, Also Tickets in be Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
la l sale at Ten Dollei's each; which wilt be drawn early in
| t the Spring.
;i- Wm. Blackburn.
m Philadelphia, Augufl 18, 1796. . m th
re — ■* ■ —■—,
iw F 0 R & ALj
■ s - A very Valuable h'ltate,
m C ALLEr) rriVITTENHA M, situate in th*
V>« township of Upper Derby, Delaware,
lc 7 l-J miles from Phiiad Iphia, an<Va(f a mile from the
lal new WellernroaX; containing 130 acres of excellent land,
te 45 of which are good watered meadow, 99 of prime wood
w7
.and, and the rell arable of tha firft quality. There are
on the preroifes a good two flory brick house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pdmp-well
t- of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, liable-,
ir- and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and (tone,
is spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach'
,y. es - 'he fields are all in clover, except those immediately
under tiilage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
• of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly con
in venient for grazing.
of Ihe situation is pleasant and healthy, and from thehip-h
tat c "Wyation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
, vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gentleman's
country feat. » #
The foregoing is part of the eflate of Jacob Hafman;
deceased, and offered for sale by
3i- Mordecai Lewis,
OA' jl. iw Surviving Executor.V.'m. Holder nesse, No. 76,
HIGB-STEEZT, !
Has received by tte lite arrivili,
A Well SeltaeJ AtsotrtsßKT of t
*- Siik Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
\\ Haberdashery Goods,
' , Whicli be will fell, wboieCile and retail, on tlie very
_ lowest terms ;
Amaagji v.b'ub are
Some eltgaat 4-4 ioc 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
fatter cs
E:tto Farnitore ditto q
D- ; tto Dimity
"1 amhonred, Book, and Jaconet MttCins
Ditto in Cold and Silrer
Ditto Neckcloths, very fin* l H
yjntaa# of the firft quality a Di
Sill and Cotton Hosiery o!d;
Umbrdbi of the firft qcaTity. affnrted coat
leilh Liners, very first, and Table Linens a fl r
* larieiile* and Cotton Counterpanes who
■ *ofe Blanket, aiTortcd—&c. See. hi; 1
OfloUr l(.' d 1 n
A Manufactory FOR SALE.
A ViluVk SOAP i»l CANDLE Uuubfion, fcaate
ia a cootcuieu part of the chy ; the works aimoft new,
on ao entirely original confituAioa, aad built erf the best
materials, and may be (tt to work immediately. Prrfona
-»Ho»iflito purchase, are reqoefled to apply at No 273>
Sooh Second Street. Srptembe- 13. t t I tt
To be Sold,
The Time of a fraart, a dive Negro Lad, Sol>
Who hat Eleven years to frrve.
Enquire at No. 58, South Front street.
18. $
The Elephant o
JS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE. ['
THE public are refpe&ftlßy Informed, thit
this animal is be {ten every day, from 8
o'clock io the morning till fun down, in Market- j
street, No. ic6, south s<k, between ThiriJ and
foortb-ftreets.
Admittance a quarter cf a dollar, that every ci
tixen may tee bin:.
Cy- At the reqnetl of many persona it will be *
txbiLited on evening* from five to eight •'dock, ®
at ba'f a doilar each.—The 1001 a will be well
lighted.
Ntrcrnbtr 7. d
i ■ 9 4
City cf Waihingtoa.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11,
fClt THE IUPROVIMLST 0 t TBS j
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent } jo,ooo dollars, k > n r .
d* efling-houfe, 3 cafii 30,000, are ) ,00 ° c:>
I ditto 15,000 &. ca!b 15,000 40,000
I ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000 <j k
l ditto 10,000 & ca£b tc,ooo 10,oo* y
I ditto JjOOO & cilh 5/50 3 10,000 - C .
I ditto 5,000 St cilh 5,000 10,000
I cafe prize of 10,000
s do. 5,000 each, are * 10,000
ro do. 1,000 - *- 10,000
jo do. 500 - • 10,000
00 da. 100 • - 10,000
. are
*00 do. 50 10,000
4rc do. *5 - 10,000 \
T,ooc do. 10 - io,ooo r —
15,000 do. Io • »50^>oaT
" y;
*6,739 Prize*
J3,i6i Bbsks. ,
sc,cc3 Tickets, at Eight Dallas, 400,000 In
N. B. To favour thofie who may take a quantity of on
Tickets,the prise of 40,000 dollar* will be the ia»t dratm yo
ticket, ire the jc,occ the last but out: tin
v\ And approved nous, securing payment in either money
er prizes in ten days alter drawing, will be received foi im
any number not lelf thin 3c tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elagmt fpeeimen of the pri- ve
v\ vate baildicgs to be crefled im the City of Wafisington— TI
Two beautiful defigrw are already felled for the entire
\ ironts on-two of tte psblie fquarea; from thefc pmrinjs llr
ititpropofed toereti two centre asd four coraer baildingt,
as toon as poflible alter this lottery is ibid, and XM convey
\ them, when complete, to the fortunate advestursrs, in
the manner described in the izkemc for the Hotel Lottery.
A nettde&dicn of 6ve per cent will be made to defray
the osceuary expense« of printing, the fnrplos
will he made a part of the fund intended for the National
XJ«iverfity, to be eredea within the city of Wafliington.
The Drawing will comme:.ce as foe.-, as the tickets are
•Id off.—The Siocey prizes wSH Be payaSl&m tJnrty Jays
after it h finifeed ; ied any pr ae» in which fortunate f;
sstnbtr j ate not produced within twelve months aft=r the
diawing i> dosed, are to be coLSdercd ar given toss-ards
the the UciverSry : it being detetmictd to fettle tfl
th£ whole huiinefs in a year from the siding of the draw.
jig, anduoiake np the bones given a* feenrity.
» tfcc real fecurh«s given for the payment of the Prizes,
ire Veid by the Trefident and two Director* of the Bask tk
of Columbia, and are valued at more than the a- c .
mount of the lottery. ir
The twenty four gentlemen who by afpointnun: of »
the bfe Commiffidners afUfted in the management of the so
Bctd Lottery are rer uefted to endtrtake tiu» arduous talk al
c fecon3 time on qfhalf rf the public ; a fufSciect r.tuti '■
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hop;d that the
friends to a National CciverEty and the other federal otv
jadsmayecntuurto favor the dtCgz..
Sy accounts received from the dißerent parts of the
Ctoirtiit. as well as frcm Ec—'pr, whrre the tickets
have been sent far tale, the public are aflkred that the t
4rt-*ing wdl fpfeedily cewati!*, and that the ears, and
dMtffcn unaroidabiy nccciTary iv infuie a fafe difpoial of 5
rrrJrrrA thr ir.nr- ftrvr.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
.§, Tickets may be had at the Bunk of CniunliU ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltirsere ;of Peter Gilrrtan, Boston : '
«f John Hopkins, Rkhmacd ; and of Richard Wells '
Cooper's Ferry. cm a
•- Davis's Law Book Store, «
Ko 313. HICH-StßttT, 1
GEORGE DAVIS 10 tris proleEiooal friends.
2r.d the Str'.ltmtn of tbe Lav,- thro' the 1 *
Vaioa, that bis tie importation of BOOKS is now irrane
ed, and rrady for Sale. ftOm a tejie volime to aa entire h
bmy, wiiboot any adv;.ite '-poo k's former ntceedin; tow
'•ices, «rtieh for ftrm I years p«4 have ia to diSingtrSied a
masnet recommended thtm to notice.
~ Prmted Catalogoet combining tbe mod exienfr»e collec
tion ef the Isicfi X**gU(h and Ir.S> e»er imported '
:„,o tk ; s eoontry, aie pobiifiied, and wij be dctiroed giaui
aa appliciiion.
O'drrs addr<iSrd to G. D. in wntin; from any diAaixe
ftail be pModua 'V at:eod<dt»-
« A nam ber of I Rl'NKs for Sale.
ALSO, TO BE LET,
\ convenient LOiT, ttar kla ktt Sueet Woart
No.t. luifin
- " T*
A few of WINF,,
l.ttported in the bri» FA.ViE, Mad::ra, tn b* -I
by MORDECAI LEWIS, ' „
frtc has aife to »ifpo£s of on reasonable terms," Wbi
IKISH LINENS, well alTorted dtx
BANDANNA HANDKERCHIEFS Corr
WiDE NANKEENS Lc»
C ass AS AND BAPTAS
RAVENS DUCK
DIAPERS
QIIICK SILVER V
CftlNA and
ROLL ERIMSTONE, fa. foo,
Ober 17. Uvrm
Twenjy Guineas Reward. 0
RAN AWAV 'rom the fnbfcriber ta the 13d OAcbsr,
a Dark MULr-ITO BOY, r.ur-d MOSES; »i years
o!d; about yft g inches high ; hai on a mizsd green
coat, with a green velvet cape and ovsl yelKw Vittona ;
a Sriped Tii ; a pair o{ dark (pottei: pzntaloont, =ud iT
whole boots amtii ware. It isptobable be may chiagt: V?
hi* e-.UK and dress. He his 1 cu accnftomed ttdfi -'B.g
a carriage, and waiting. The above reward will be A 1
paid for fccttrirg him Co that the fubt-riher may get him
again, and si crovgh: hame aQ re«f»nablc chargc, paid by jj
e Hobins Cbomber!uin£.
2 Eaflon, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 Umsawtf Wbi
" Bv Authority.
Plai
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery. jpti
I, SoU by WILLIAM ~BLACKBURX, Ko. 64+
Statb SctonJJlruf.
SCHEME of 7 LOTTERY,
for raificg SiKiy Thoo f znd D«'l»n, »^'«iably t# an iftof
ihc Lfg of Pennlvlvasu, tiiTru dutiog tbe i»<! Czl*
feficrt. for buiidiog a bioac Bridge •»»« River
t SchuyikiU, at Jk Borough of Coonry of r .
8 DoUa..
»,P'izeof »c aoo D l.us - jj on
t- t 1 00. of to oco do. . - i«x«o j,
;d 3 do. of j/>OC do. - - 15 OCO
1 do. of 2,00 c do. - • 6,0c0
>0 do. or 5,002 da. - iDjGOo _
I- 39 co. of 500 do. - -
8o do. of iao do. ... »6,0c0 J
■ t too ao. of 100 do. V 10,00:
300 do. of 50 do. - ij.oce '
J 1 do. of *00 do to be paid tbe pc&T-)
: •' for of tbe firrt dr*» n bo. J " _C
} do. of j,OCO do. to he paio poieffars /
ol the five lafiCra»-snoss '
g \~a do. cf 14 do. j - 141,000 r
lcr.c,4 Priirs joo,c«o whi
■0,046 "ianks 33
r met
' 30.000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,900 his,
Al! Prizes {hall tie paid fifteen cays after the dravisg is torn
fiuilhed. upon ihe demand of a poffrCot of a fottßnaic we!
licaet, fiiij.fi to a dedu&ion of t»ewy per cen:. Tbe he:
Placing wii! commerce as.tooaai toe Ttckeia • t uifpo' c, OL
c:, or perhaps iooaer. of wtucn p-fci:c notice will be given. i, ? v
PbiSf Miller, Peter K:rjkntr y tVii£sa •'» sum, res,
Jofifh Hieficr, Junes D.cmtr, Thomas DunJuj, he i
Jcmet Maj, Jtba Otto, John Ktim, Dtniei Qr*tJ[, F rc
iekaJHan Milltr, Commissions*). Itv
Readmg, May the 91b, 1796.
tiV
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, Ne. », to he ind at the ' .^ c
above office, where the carliefl inlormatica cf the draw.
ing of the \V«2mt gton No. a, and Paturien Lotterj's, j
are reccived. ind checkbooks 'as czaminauoo and regif
teriagar: kept. —
Oatobcr j. tawtf
DANCING SCHOOL.
WILLIAM w»U open his fehool cn Men- A
day the jli inft. at ten o'clock in the mornmg, it his
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, betwren Cbefnnt and Walnut Street#. [ m
Honrs ef tuition for young ladies, from 10 to s o'clock ]m
of on Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday mornings; and for 4a*
vm yotm » gentlemen from 6to 9 o'clock 00 the eveniags o aft
the fame days. ! Pii
ity In addiuon ft> a camber of new ostilliMs, he meat =to Ri
foi introduce a variety of Scotch Reels lir.
Note. The Sril prawning ball to be on Tsefday e- at
iri- venicg, the sirs: of November, and to be continued every Pit
1 — Tuesday, during the icifoc. Fo
ire For terms, &«, enquire at his houfc, No.lJ4,Market- D:
rtjs llreet. . St<
>%i, OA. iy. ttfcf to
"Z SW ANN'S,
ry " Ridiag SeixxJ, I'crft AeaJemr & Injirmmrj.
"■ Adioinioc the Public Souarr, Market Street.
r. SWANN £
B- RETI'RNS his finrere thank»tof-ofefittknta bv «hoa
are he k&* tern caiployed, dutmg his rtiywtsx to ilui Cilv, acc J<r
si- trihiaifelf thai tbe foccefii of hi* rt?or:s, :o ific numerot>a,
iate hlAmnl 3od xiingeroiu d«fcafei io H.Tffrt, ir he Kai
the CJwiUiipd, itu *iu xnoilcraa wiil fe-
j. cue :hri> fn;yefirjri and "
u He oow be«« lrave xo inform :b«m aac the J •Übjic ,t large !
that bis 'psootis and eon modi-.bi s»«i!<t, *nfl:4 tor ihe
iW " abort dcfcnctd are osta for ibe rtcepiion of pupils
of ei-.Ter fcx, v.no wilh to beiDdretttd ia ike Art of Riding,
i". „^jj t nieibod of tbetr borfin. <0 asto tide
ank theai «ub cafe, f.e.wur. a"nd jaiety—tbeir oe-fes will be
:a- carrfui'v >ad r*pra«ifud\ L:okc, cve-y puroofr, ni.a *
midr oaediett 10 •* wiJ! of tbe rider. ; the ra-ura! powers
it of wbicti are Out apt.-, .rvem, waH be uot'olded b. air, ea liag jtr
the foiib of mo \wx, ana Jivio; 10 tbat ooble aaims! jat
ta& al! ibo'e be amies of aetigo wbseh providence bat (o h-moi.- ia:
n-i faily be#owed mi them. ;
the Aifo, bis bofp'tal. CVTTV difor erto which the horse is c
ot> . liable will be tre»i«l according to ikrao of art, eoiirmed r ;
by long and repeated evpener«.
■ The ati'!tty of ttK above inllitut ioc bas oarer been qwfl ion
. Ed, that it ius long oeea K-acted in this city, e»«r\ jcot^man's
.p. witli»d T. Sw i» as the fi»R e4aHK3>er of ' ..
ti-.cv-terenaiy art, foiieitt ana relies upon :he 't'ppo-toftHa j
ana public (which he is ever aaaicui in (< rruicj to erjble him to i r
I]l ot biiog it to peTfe&tm. • The ioea of a 'ub criptinn f cr ,h»i jc'
purpofc bas been hinted by fcva.l jentieman, who wi!h to i 0
ptomoie iHe in't.uiuoo—tbe a-rount ef each faWcnp t-v: to j
; ef be returned by Cervices :n any of tic Jepirnets he pro esses, >
ton t agreeable to the rate of chaiges (Hied in K.. band bill. '
,'flls r.bicript.oai is'new open, aad the fignatstes of raioy re'ptS- j
aiile g. tubmen a. tatty obtained. He tberetere iniorms hi*! ■
fnr- ds aoc fu.h Lscta aad ffflilimrs to wtiom be has rot j
ht honor of being iuowa, that be thai: re a ; tw at\t take i
■, i»e libertr of waiting upoo than and lolicUin; their t'upport > <
and protect:ir.
tods. N3 " Hotfcsare properfyprepafej for tho«t Ladiaszad '
• ,u, who wife to be infituited.
fane • ; ° v - * tth&f. '
"'± PbHadrlpiia, 6tb Nruetxbtr, j T o6. '
* ALL prrfor.s ddlroaa to to furnjjh far the Ar- '
J ay of the United State*, the .Vowing irticies.or any for- 1
.. tioa of them, are rcqaefted to fend in their ptouofait ftaU '
cd on or befotethe 15th December next to *
S'atis Tencb Francis, Purveyor.
151 Pa:r of leather breeches, •*
iaoce i s a Pair cf boo«», •h: pa-teans pwyp*
1041 A;uUer> hau, >< Stmuc.
SIOB Infantry ha 1, .doci'i, T'tf public liore
4 6c0 Pair of (hoes, No. t: lbe S " whM f »^ e
Cos: Pair of fr.oes, Ko. 1. -Vch4b««.
f '» !»ovember 8. tn di ftDs
PATENT SHOT. j
. THI Seneral amtamfUas of Patflttfluit taring tea
I prevented by the high price it ha* hitherto i
at, the Proprietor* take thr« method of informing tr.e ccat
Public that tr»r may in future be supplied with tint an- j
cl* at thi forte price* m coamon sta«# ky oiderice t^ ir 1
Correfponpacu to apply to Wuu»h MAI.T»r & Co. ,
Epodpg. NOT 9 WIJ4W J
" " "FOR SALE, *
About i,600 acres of Land, »«
WELL situated, living on and between Marfc ***
and E-ech Cr*ek*, M'fii* county, PrttfyNania, ia
four feparatc Patent*. For term* ot £s!e apply to
Win. Blackburn,
No. <4, South Stond-firaet.
oaoW 31. rtwftf 6351
£ Robert Smith & Co. ®
58, Sch/A Frent'Jircet, cm
| Hire received by the late arrival* fram London, Lrrer- fore
wool, and Hv 1, and by the Ohio arrived « N. York to ri
from Glasgow, ,n V
* A Urge & general assortment of Goods, -l r
" Sulfate for tbe Sff/on, nwjijting of tmu
1 Daffir, Point and Rcfe Ch.-cts, in fmaU package*
Blankets Ozaaburp and Brow* Hoi-
White, Red, and Yellow laai* ..."
Brown and white RbEj j-
Booking apd other Baires Ehcetine*
Sccofid and coarse Cloths Drilling ar.4 Diapers
Phtin end mixed Caffimeres Calicos and Chintzes
Plain, twilled, ana striped Jaoonci anl Book Mriflin
Coatings So. do. Tamboarrd
, Plains, Kerfeyi, and Half- Do. do. Handiardpef*
thick, Printed listen *1 ti„ck do
White Jc fpolted SvranCcics and ?.'.»dr»f .jo-
Lainet ui iwanfdown veil Mu£:~ and Cfcintx Sfcaw**
Dupes Bed Tick*
of -riA Tai.: C.oths
«i Dnrantj Laeei and Edgicga j
CT Moreens ar.d Taboreens Faft.n'jab:e Ru'oon*
Joans Spinning arid Crape* Do Hats an J . Ewa"i T
Cunbleis and Wiidbore* Gotten & Vurfied Kofiery 1
" c Bombaieen* ft Bombazets Gurvcs and Mitts
°° Kituact* and ihslloon* White &. coloured Threads *
f Pi in. Genoa and printed Italian Sewing Silka
Vdreret* A Thicksets Ivory and H-rn Combs ')'
™ 7-8, 4-4, and ir-8 Cotton Tapes, Biiidij:ei,|PLns, S:c. wh
The* have on hand a large affortmer.: of India Muslins cha
P- and Calicoes, black and coloured Perfiaas, Uandanno aad If
jc Paliicat Handkerchiefs, See. and a quantity of MatWp mo-,
end Mace.
* OSctcr ij. m-afim faO
RJNAWAT, J
x Ahoat the ift of Odooer lift, from the plantation of
Mr. Tl-osna* F. Brooke, (in Prince George's county) to
oo whom he wa*hired, a NEGRO MAN, i.ametl CiESAR;
!33 rear* of age; about $ feet Bor 9 inches high; well
trade ; of a ycilswiih complexion j a link pociunari :d : ]
00 his, when spoken to, rather a down look, a=d fnbmiEvc
is tone of Toice; th« dothe» he had heiore he ib&ocded y
ne were of plain, fnch as lab on ring N: roe* aTaally wear,; IT I
he tu; t aeie he may probably excfi'-tige for othrrs : he Trill '
c> aouhtlefs endearor.r to piss for a treeman, has inp, as i ■ i
al - kave been informed, jffum. d the name of Butler : I ha»e est
La 1 reason to be lit v* that he *« to Baltimore, from whenet | an;
u, he h said to have gone to some part of the Sufq*6):aanah, i H»i
,J~ probably with a view of gitting to Pecnfyl\ani». A Sa
" ' reward of Tlarty Dollar* will be gi»en to '-he pcrim To
may take him and so secure hiia ia fora: jail that I may Pa
get hifn again, if taken in this frate, an<s Fifty dollar* if
t>ken out Sate, acd if brought home or feeired i? Nt
the jail of Prince George'* coontr all reasonable chargts He
7* will be paid bp ALEXR. COVINGTON. 'Br
r' ! » iviaryknd. Prince Georgt's County, "> ' Sa
:nd November, 1796. J Ilth'tltf+w , Kir
L Treasury Department,
Stpianler 23, 1795.
ATOriCE i*hereby given, that prtpofal? vriil be re
, IN ceived nth: of the Secretary of Use Treafßr;-
until the eapiratica of the firft day of March Beat ea
fu.ag, for thcfapply of all ration* which may he roqnirec
t». far the use of the United Staus fr®m the firft <Jay of .
:ek Jnne, IJ9?, — the thirty-firft day of May, 175!, l>oth t
for daps indnSve, at the piaecs and within the diftria*-fcare- j
s c after ractuoced, xia. At Ofwogo; u Niagara ;a: .
! Pacfqtie Ifie; at Sandcfty Lake, aid on itainicf A
sto Rivar, at Detroit; at Mtchitanackinac | at Fort-Frank- :
lie, at Pirtfburgh ;at Cincinnati; at Fert-Harailton j !
■ e- •: Fort St. Chir; at Fort-jrfcrfca; at Orenville; at ;
try Picqae Taw* and Loramie* Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayue; at Fort DeSance; at any place oHow Fort '
set- Defiance oa the Miami River to Like Eric; at Fart
Strsfeec ; at For: Maffac ; at any place from Tort Mafiae
S to the focth boundary of the United State* on the river
Miffifippi; at Fort Kjmx ;at Ociatanon. _
U fapplie* shail be repaired icr any po&s or places not
mentioned in thi* notice, all f&ch fepplie.* iaail be far-
Ci&rd at pfeces propor»i«ned to tW>fc to be paid at the
po&i before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
Wtwcac the United Sutes aud the Contractor eo
bom The rations to be foppiicd arc to coa&ft of the f»l- jqv
•od iswiag articles, vi*.
One pound two rnnce* of bread or ficor. i —
' ul Oae pound two ennce* of tees, or fourteen ounces of
' T p*rh er bacon.
{ Half a gill of ram, brandy or whiflcey.
■"5® Ocs aaert and kalf a pint of X
' Two quart* ef Vinegar, ( , . , }
; C,U Two pound* .f Soap, ( f" rlUon * i tv
Otic pour.d of Candle*. J a
j Thera>-kio»are to be funrflied m fath <juantit>e«. asthat to
d-.cra Ciall at all times during the said term, be futiicient
ver* '"or the confnmption of the troop* at Michiliroaciir • De
ling ! troit, Niagara- and Ofwego, for the term of fix rapijth* in
iaij! ; advance, acd at each of the other posts, for the t-rm of
aoii- '1 at lea!> three month* ill advance, in good and whoJefoa*
i proriHocs, if the fame ikall be repaired. It is to be ua
*e is derfioad, that the isto be at the ri. _ate and
"tned ritk of i/fairgthe fsppiits to the troop* at each pcß, and
that all lofics faiiained by tie depredations of a» meny, or
' 10B * i»y means of the troop* of the Inic.' States, lhali be paid
nan's ; or al (he price of the atricle* captured or destroyed, 00
j the drpofitioas of two or more perions of credit -da rha
' rafiars, a.id the ceraScaie of a comsiilEencd officer, at
: circnnutancas of the ief;, and the jiocat
- o: th- aititles fci whuh ccmytufaiion iball be ckiincj
° ro I . OLIVER WOLCOTT,
i ?ccretarv oi the Trea^ry.
. S^ ; Loft Lait Evening, I "■
4 iAt Rieietts'j (lußpofed to be taken by
„ roI j (bme villain out of a gentleman's packet) j
stake' A Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK, u
pport ' Conraiaiag aboat 18c doliar* in bark note*; th-ec nores
■of hand ofßofsand bimfon. No. ,;ca, TOS and >06, da- 4
Hand te-i li'h la'i Aujafi, payable 6odafi-after data, to the t
order of Paul SiKiei, tegfther doliars; an order
of Mrs. Ann h acphetfon, fr em PaulSiemen, ca Lach
lin Mac Nea!, EXq at Port-au-Princc, for ico dollar* j be
ti,. Cdcr fereral letters and papers of no afe bst to the propria
." r tor. The notes of band aad order are without endcrfc
, mer.t. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD it offered tc
any perfoc who will dllcover aad frcure the thief, and
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti-
r * oted note* and paper* at No. 119, comer of Front and
o ,yfc t Mulberry Street*. d Ofi.. n.
c ao»c An elegant Bay Horse for iale,
Enquire at G«orge Green'* Stables, .a Pinc-irett,
between Fourth and Fifth-ftrcrt*.
tDv Nov. iS. Jiw
Patesfoa Lottery.
FOR raiSrg £*tfccafind fit kindred and Sxty-fevi*
dollar* fifty cents, by a dedecboe-of p a
cent from tie prizes, uo not two biaalutoa t jiic. via
I Prise of jooo dollars is dollars 3000
« »000 loao
( i l ® J 00
5 aac ioco
30 *0® V 2Crv>
9? Nfe,. JO
»oo a£ jooj
1 2000 xo *0,000
j 5 Laftdrawn Bumien of leco dslian each, 7:30
i —-
ijji Prizes.
4018 Blinks.
6jjo Ticketsai Seven Dollars each, 44*45?
By orcirr of the Directors of the Society /or eSab.-i
---;ng LKefui the roperietendaatt rf the Pit.
crum Lottery haver recatiled the Mioijcn to rmsur the
- foregoing Sahetne e» the pcrtc, and have dircAed ihm
t to rerjnJ the money to tfcjfe persons ho bare
is the former Lottery, or tie tacaotr for ticket*
a this Lottery.
' rhe lottery his a&aally «OTr.aietieed drawing, 3rd will
continue aatil fbiQwai. A lift of the Blank. »nd Prizes
' may be seen at the office oi William BiKiumrn, No. C 4
sooth Seccad street, who will give tcforaaatiaa where ties
ets may be procured.
Dated tfei* 17th day of Jaae, 1796.
J. A*- CUM WING. •)
JACOB R. HARJjRNBERG, )■ Maweeri.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
STATER THE WHEEL.
1 Prize of jooe - - - 500 c
I ICOO - Jotm
I .500 - . . JOO
i SCO . . lie*
*0 ICO - « - loco
9' J° • 4jO«
I6J %y - • - 4uj
The €»e lift drawn ccketa, 1000 e-ch, joeo
f Being ill thevsluable prirrs, betides a fall propor
tion of the 19 dollars.
A* the Lottery it cocSderabK- more than oae third
drawn, the value of the undrawn ticksu is great.
Iy increased, and it is ucrti tie no;ice cf thc.'e
wto boidf ticket* in t'i«old f heme, that they caa ex
it change tl|eir tickrti for thole in the above, if they ap
d If fooa, and at a moderate advance confidence the '
s mow real valce of an 11 redrawn ticket.
The ticket* being nearly ait ibid, tbe drawiae i*
future will be ofoenat, ud the Lottery fijon fiaibed.
November it. nrai
Imported in the late arrivals,
A.J to bt Sa.'J by
it JACOB PARKE,
• : Ko. 49, North fide of High-street, Philadelphia,
A GiSEtAL ASSOkTHBKT Of
| Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, See.
St ' Alt
I j SMirKS* Anvils, Vita, and Files; S:w-sniU, Crofs
k eat, Hand, and other Saws; Carpenters* Planes. Chii"r!«,
ts : and other Tocis; Carricj Chifeb and Gouges; Le>et»,
b, 'Hi age., Suits aod Latches; Nails, Sfrigs, Tacts, aat /
A ;crewi; iryiag-Pan»; SnDcrathinst-troi;; Shovels aad
to Cofce Mills; Candk-ticki; SauSTcr-; Waia:_' -.
>y Pad; Table Kciva» and -crlu; 3js
if Pea, and other Pocket Knrwjj Razors ; Pciff.ri;
Ktedle*; Ivory and Hora Com'.n; hrft KtH>y rife
ts Hooks; btala Cabinet Furniture; YTiggc.a Ccx^s; S>:tt
(Kt>U ; plated ir.a tia'd Brinle Bits wirnits ; I|o
' Sa die Nails; Girth and Straining Vrchfrt;—-wi'h
t kirds of 11 •omoagcry, fauay. Sadlijy, Erafs War s,
fce. tK.
Odober 14. «wfsw
Sales of India Gooits.
a '_ Tbe Cargo »f the (hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, hem Ci'-
c-jtta and Bengal,
0 J COMSt3TtNC ur
o, A Lirge and generala&rtmect of Bengal and
t . A COl rONandSILKOOOIJJj.
,j AMOXC ÜBJCJi ARE
ry A variety Jtr.s worked, and plain Muslins,
k- j Dorcas, {sV. Also,
1; | A Quantity of Exce f lent Sugar.
In boicf ar.d b:gs-#Kd BLACK PEPPER,
; 7"Ot Sale by
« j Wiilings 1$ Francis,
ic ■ No. 11 Peon Street.
Jane > 5
—
i WANTED,
fc* i As Cook, in a private family,
C 3 ' A YOUNG WOMAN vho can predict e~nd -c
covnmenditicns of :n unexceptionable cbarifeer. Ea
st- . quire of the Printer.
i Nojeanber 17. flf
rf VVaihington Canal Lottery,
N c . I.
•\T7"HFRXAS the State of Maryhnd has atdierifad
V v the trader.Tittea, to raise twenty-fix thoaiand,
two hundred, aad fifty dollars, for the pwrpoie of cutting
a Canal through the City of froxj th P»:
fiat touacto theEailcrn Branch Karuoar.
rat The follotviap i« the SCKKME &f No. I.
3e- Via -i Prirtof »o/»o dollars, tcfice
> in 1 ditto 10/soa 10,000
of 7 laft drawn 1 JJsOOO
me Tickcts, each f
ao- 6 ditto I,©DO 6,00©
i!id jo ditto 4«> 4»^s©
in2o ditto 100 ><000
,or 55 ditto p
57JQ dkto - H - 1*
o> To be raised for dM Canal, 16,150
as i«jo Pnro. «7J£*
est 1 i6<o Stacks, not two to a prize.
ITSOO Ticket*, atTenDoQarx. -
r. The Commissioners hart taken the Securities re
'" q-jittd by the afopefaid a& for the pjvßiest of
;he prixes.
1 The crawiag®f this Lottery witl (onmiccc, wttheot
delsy, » soon as the Tickets are fcid, of whisk tunely
• nctiae w.tl be given.
ores Sach prize* « arc not denandedic faaronthsafter ti«
da- drawing is lbailbe confiderTdasrrtJscjßi&eiiof
the the beneatof the L'iaal, and apprcorkred aceordtngly.
rdar /irce- J NOTLEY YOUNG,
ach DANI£LCARROLL,o/D.
I be- IJ.WIS DEBLOIS,
>rie- GFORGE T ALKER,
"fc- Wm. M. DDNCANSOX,
* THOMjiS LAW,
JAMES fI*RRY.
Crty of Walhiagtoe, Peh. 11. S
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN KO,
rett, No. ll9—
CH FIH WT-STREET.
V?rkc DoIUn per Aa&umJj