• _.v>
°f the Untteu States, & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser. \
1
0 n WEDNESDAT EVENING, OCTOBER 26, 1796. {Volume X.
Number 1289. J — —
J J _
Just Arrived,
Br the Fly, Captain Hubler,Jrrnn London,
Doable racked, Brown Stout Porter,
in i-l and «-4 <-Wt. kegs, packed «n
hogsheads.
Copperas in hogsheads.
?*" Peter Wight.
OSober »j. -
Landed this Day, ;
At Mtrten s Wharf, from the trig Fame, Captain
Knox,
A quantity of Barbadoes Rum & Sugar.
For Sale by
• Kearny Wharton.
OX tier H- M
A CLOSE COACH, which has run about 7 months'
an I a pair of brown, able-bodied HORsrs, for sale
on reasonable terms. Apply at No. 63, south Third
*Ts. The eosch is more particularly calculated for the
winter featei, having large glals lights and Venetian blinds.
Oftabur «4- _
Tuft arrived, and will this day be lan
ded from on board the brig FAVORITE at Chefnnt
flreet wharf. „
jt Tons beji RuJJia Clean 'HEMP,
16 Tons old Sablie flit IRON,
,00 Coils.bcft Rufljj CORDAGE, assorted fires,
4,00 Pieces brown Russia SHEEIIICGS,
100 Bolts Ruflia DUCK,
240 Pi«ce« Ravens do.
»o Half-down feather beds,and
A few piecesafforted DIAPER.
FOR SALS BT
v Joseph Anthony and Go.
P A- The above mentioned BRIG
will fail in a few dav», and take frei|ht on
moderate term* for Botton or Salem, for
which or passage, apply on board or as above
OAober 44. loi< *
The Schooner INDUSTRY,
fnctv-feven tons burthen, almost a new
yeffel and well found. Eor terms apply to
JaJepb Anthony & Ce.
If the Industry is not fold m a few days, lhe will take
freight very low for Boston.
O&ober 24.
For Freight or Charter,
The ship COMMERCE,
KjWm NATHANIEL CURTIS, Master.
Almoftanew veflel, 944 ton* burthen, and will
be ready to receive a in a few days. Jfor
JgggS terms apply on board at Bright*s wharf, or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
For Sale on board the above Vessel,
A quantity of excellent COAL.
Having goods on board, are earnestly requeu
ed to ftrd their permits.
O&oher 11. dfot
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Tf the MARY is not fold in a few days, she will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
Oflober it. diot
For Boston, Newbury-Port and Ports
mouth, New-Hampshire, {
J.~ The Schooner LUCY,
1 Daniel Prowfe, matter: will fail in
■ \ the course of a week, and take freight
k on moderate terms, for which, or
passage, apply on board, or to
Joseph Anthony, Co.
Oclober d x
For Norfolk, p
in f^ree or f our a y s )
The brig Zephyr,
. Captain Hinehman; lying at Landenbcrger's wharf—
She has excellent accommodations for p.iffengers For
which or freight, apply to the captain on board, or to
Samuel Breck, jun.
No. Bg, South I'hird-ftreet:
JVbtrt may be had
A quantity of N. E. Rum, Sherry Wine
in quarter-casks,
Sa.il Cloth, Nos. 1 and z, and a few hundred pieces d
of Bandanna Handkerchiefs.
OAober 20- " 6
Lying at Messrs. Willings and Francis's
■wharf,burthen 1000 barrels, built in Philadelphia in 179,;
of live and red cedar.—She is well found, and may
be fern to sea at a (Ynall expencc. For terms apply to 1
Gurney & Smith,
oa. 6. d t f.
FOR LONDON,
The eapjtal (Kip CERES,
r 0 fail foftn:—Eor freight or passage
to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or t
John Vaughan,
September 10. Front-street.
or Charter, 1
ie Danilh Barque Bsnhventura
Samuel Stub, mailer, ]
good vessel, of about two hundred
tons burthen. JESSE Sc. F„OB£RT WAI.N '
Sc rt- 1 7- dtf_ 5
,ljA. or Charter,
The Ship Domlmck Terry,
D P e , Hart ' mast « : excellent I
nf about 3000 barrels burthen.
Jeffe & Robert Wain. ,
September aT.
Benjamin and Jacob Johnson,
No. 147, Market-flreet,
Have received by the last arrivals from Liverpool and
> Hnll,
A wry generalqjjortment of DRTGOODS,
1 Well suited to the approaching Icafon, which they will
fell on the leweft terras by the piece or package.
O&eber <4. taw4w
To be Let,
Two Rooms, furnijhed or unjurnifhed,
In a three-dory Brick House, at a very small dif
tauce frrtm the-Merchants' Coftee-Houfe. The ufeof
' the Kitchen may be had, and that of a Cellar.
Apply at this Office.
, Oilaber 14. 4
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of Madeira Wine, landing from on
board the schooner Lucy, Capt. Prows, at Chefnut
: street wharf, and for sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews,
: 0if1.14. mwf No. 86, So. Wharvet
For Sale,
. By J. WARDER, PARKER & Ct.
t An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different fifes, from 11 inch cables dawn
to rope of i inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, £rom Hull, and entitled to drawback.
Sept. 27. dtf
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
Have received per the William Pcnn, in addition to
their own afforrtent,
A wmfignment of twtnty trucks of Calicoes, efc
jfant London patterns ; also a few cases of handsome
1 Buttons—Which will be folJ at a short credit, on very
' reasonable terms, by the package only
' Ofl. 14. dtf
Wm. HOLDERNftSSE,
No. 76 Nigh Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and
the Eail Indies, a well fele&cd assortment of Silk
Mcrc-jry, Linen Drapery and Habcrdafhery Goods; which
li£ will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowed terms ;
AMONGST WMJCH ABt,
Some fine India muslins em'oroidered with gold and fflTer
Superfine Book, Jaconct, and Mulraul ditto
Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Some extra black tafieties.luteftringsand colored Pcrfians
Bandano Handkerchiefs
Long aud (hort Nankeens
Englilh Mantuas of the firft quality
Damaik tabic linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant aflarrtmsnt
Thead and cotton uo |
Umbrellas—green'filk, oil'd do. and do cleth
French cambrics, very fine
Irish Linens, do. Ac. &c. June 14 §
Just Imported, i
Tin Plates u boxes _ j . t
Sheet and bar Lead ' <
Shot—all fi?es, patens and oonntton
Copper bottoms and sheets
Englilh flioes and boots in cases '
Taunton Ale incaflts »f 10 dec. each
Balkct Salt '
Wool Caids
Gold Watches.
For Sale by '
Simon Walker,
oa. 7. mwfim Dock-street t
I he Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lis
bon, landing at the fubferibers wbarf—
»8 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales of Spanish wool
3 do. of Annifeed
7000 Bushels of best Lisbon Salt
80 Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO,' '
Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS, -
received by the fbip Dominiek Terry, Capt. Be Hart,
Prom K^ngflon.
Sept. 13. d 1
For Sale,
7*ibit day Landing from on board the ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Am/crdam,
Gin, in pipes
Impty Gin Cases
Hock in cases of 4 doz,
Glass Tumblers in chells
Sweet Oil in eases
Patte Graffe Cheese in boxes, ss"c.
Also Landing by the Lottifa, Capt, Bell, Jrom LL/bon,
60 Qnarter-cafks Lisbon Wine.'j
On Hand,
A quantity of Brandy, Hazle-Nuts in sacks, See.
Peter Blight.
Prober T 7 . d2w cn-2w
This Day is Published,
By William Cobbett, opposite Chrift-Churth,
An Answer to Paine's Rights of Man, 1
By R. Makenzie, Esq. of Edinburgh. 1
To 10hieh is added,
A Letter to Citizen Swanwick,
By Fcter Porcnpine.
The whole is dedicated to Bo&or Joseph Prleftley,
Felloy of the Royal Society of London, Citizen of 1
America, and Deputy Heft to the National Conven- 1
tion 01 Francc. c
Oifl.lß.
DANCING SCHOOL. ,
W ' LL I^ M M'DOUGALL will open his school on Mon- r
day the 3rd ind. at ten o'clock in the morning-, at his
Elegant I\cw Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnnt and Walnut Streets.
on M .. tu rj fo , r >' ou "g Wi«. from 10 to , o'cloek
on Mondays, v. ednefday, and Friday mornings; and for '
sr h ' —»'
Note. The fir ft prailifisg. ball to be on Tuesday e-
TnJf/'' i tio r v ' mh "' an<l to be continued evcrv
i uefday, during the season. •
firm' UrmS ' &C ' enqU ' re " hi ' houf<- ' No " T 3 4, Market i
For Sale,
[ By Jehu Hulling/worth, & Co.
15 hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d aad 4th proof,
S Battels best Indigo, and,
. A few thousand buftiels of Turk's Island fait.
OA. 17. d.
Irish Linens, &c.
Imported per tie Jhif-s Glajgvw, from Dublin, Liber
ty, frum Cork, end btig Mentor, f r cm Beifajt,
t 4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
la whole and half boxes,
AfTorted from nd. to 43. flerling—Alio 5-4 wide
Sheetings, and law priced yarn and worsted Hose.
On Hand,
7-g Wide Lawns.
Diapers and Table-Cloths
A few boxes Tickens and Check*
A few bales flannels
Cork and Belfaft Sail Cloth, Nos. I and 6
25 Boxes r 6 by S,
TO Ditto > Window Glass, J ) by 5,
.5 Ditto J C 8 by 10.
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
drawback, and will be dilpofed of by the package on
resfofiable terms.
James, Clibborn & English,
No. 6, N. front-flreet.
1 loth mo. 19th. dtf
: * .i ii ■
Just Landing,
At South Jlreet-iubarf, from on board the ship Sedg
ley, Captain Hodge, from St. Peterjlurg,
The following Goods;
RufHa Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Do. Hvckuback. J
Do Crafli.
Do. Mould Candlen, 4, j and 6, to the ib. of the
F.nglilh size.
E>o. White Candle Tallow.
Do* White Soap in small boxes-
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
lfiriglafs, ill and tnd fort.
HcrCe Hair uncurled.
RuGia Bar Irori.
Do. Hoop Iron. •
Do. Nail Rod*.
10 Tons Oakum and Jnnk.
St. Pcterfburg Clean Hemp;
For Sale by
Philips, Craraond, Si C«.
October 12, /
STOP THE THIEVES !!!
LAST Wcdnefday Evening, O&ober 19, between the
hoursoiyacd 19,-d*clock, the bed room of Mr Ricketts in
O'Ellci's hotel was en ered, either bv means of falfe keys,
O'at the window, by feme villain or villains, who mufl, have
acquainted wi h the fjtuation ps the house (as the door
was found locked after they bad committed the theft) who
took away from arnongft several trnnks, ONE which con
tained a valuable part of Mr. Rickett's propetty,but of which
he »s slot yet able to ascertain the contents particularly. As-
llic Taid ti >wbv, 2nd it of up_. ,
wards of a thousand dollars in caflr and bank notes, the vih.
lains left it behind the circus, during the time that the per
formances of the evening were going forward*
Itisearneftly rcqur.fted, that all tavern-keepers on the Gage
roads, and the ferry Jioufes. as well as all civil officers, may
be watchful in Ifcurin# lufpicious persons, who may Have a
redundance of cacti, which their appearance wuuld by no
means bespeak them to he poftefTed of.
One Hundred. Dollars Reward
W ill be given for securing the thief or thieves, and a fur*
ther reward for fecyrirfg them w\th the property.
Oft. *1. j
-- L ii j.r • 4 d -
For Sale,
Carolina Rice in whole and half tiercel,
Cotton of Cayenne and Trinidad,
Soal Leather, entitled to drawback,
Boflon Beef, and
Mould and dipt candles.—Apply to
Isaac Harvey, jun.
No. 5, South Water-street.
toth me. 17. d3w.
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo oS the (hip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
A Large and generaraflortmerit of Bengal ana M&aras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and ■plain MuJJins,
Dorcas, \ffc. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
!n boxes and .bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by
Willings Francis,
Mo. »I Penn Street.
Tune 8 $
Washington Lottery.
The 30th and 31ft days' drawing of the Washington
Lottery, No. 2, are received at the office No. 234, Msr
ket-llreet, where tickets may be examined.
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the ether
lotteries may be procured.
Oflober 20, 1796. d
Mr. RICKETTS
BEGS leave to inform the Ladies and Gentlemen, that
he will open his RIDING SCHOOL on the ift of Nov.
for the inilru&ion of Ladi«s and Gentlemen in the ele
gant accompli foment of riding and manrtging their horses
with ease to themselves.
Mr. Ricketts has well trained Horses for the zeeom
ntodation of Ladies and Gentlemen for exercise, to pay
monthly. Pupils to pay by the season, or by the lesson.
Horses trained to the road cr field.
Ovleb&r 24. d
To be Sold,
The Time of a smart, active Negro Lad,
Who has Eleven )xars to serve.
Enquire at No. 58, South Front-street.
Prober 18. £
Wants a Place,
Either as Clerk or Book-lfr ;per in a Store, a Person
whe can produce good references a* to character,
I Apply at the Office of Gazette,
O&ober 24. 2
Imported in the late arrivals from Europe and the
ff r eji-ipdi<?s,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croii Sugar and Rum
Martinique Molaflas, in hotheads
Choice old Lifljon Wine, m pip*s and qisarter-eafts
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and (juarter-cafts
Malm fey Madeira Wide, in pipes and quarter-cafkj
TenerHre Wine, in pipes
Russia & Flemish Shretiri'g and Ravens Duck, in cafe*
Window GUfc, S by rc, in boxes
I Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in calks
Mill Saws and Crois-cut Saii-s, in boxes
/fife, on hand,
A few clefts of Bohea Tea ; Jcfuits Bark ; AiTafo:-
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of Cofiaes,
Baftas, Gtirrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a complete aflortmeiit of 5-4 and 6-4
Boohing Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers & Co.
CWlober 20 d2wmScth2m
SAIL CiOTH.
On Monday, the 3 iji injl. tvill be Sold
at Public Sale, at the Store of Messrs.
George Hunter Ss 5 Co. No. 153, Pearj
Jlreet, New-Tork,
275 Pieces of the Best
English VVeft Country Sail Cloth,
By some persons called East Coken, and by other*
Weft Colten. —It is of known excellency; weai*
white, and does not mildew.
Oflober 18 dt29th
■ ' ■ ■ r* —— ;■
Country Rum,
And a few pipes of Vinegar,
- For Sale by
Ezekiel Hall,
At the flores of Mr. Edward Stow, jun v No. 4, Swutli
Water-ftteet. OSober 20. d
A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF ~
DRY GOODS.
John Miller, jun. & Co.
. Kxckifive of their own Importation now opening,
Have received by the William Penn, Caroline and Dtant
CONSIGN MENTS,
Which comprize a capital assortment to opea a
Dry Good* Store.
—Amongfl them are— '.
Common, super and fnperfine Cloths,
Plain, twilTd and ftrip'd Coatings,
Baizes and Flannels.
Point, ro<£ and duffil Blafilcets,
Plain and piintea Caflhneres,
SwanfdownP,
Printed Calicoes,
Scotch Threads,
Ifefitry. ■
They will be fold either in whole, or in part, hyjfte
package, on terras which render them an abject worthy /of
attention to purehafers. dtf OA. 21.
Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarei,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbls.
47 bbls. prime Coffee,
Best Boston Beef,
Codfilh in hdi. ,
Spermaceti Candles,
Spermaceti, and ,1 ». .
Northern J
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior
quality.
A few boxes excellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
40 Pipes excellent Lisbon Wine. ,
A few sacks of Feathers.
A few bales India Muslins.
FOR SALE BT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
October aI.
1111 ■ *
Landing this day,
Pi «"> M board the Brig Qarolinc, at Cbifyut-flretl
«a7Vwrj"\ - •'' •
FORTY PIPES
London proof Holland Gin.
For Sale by
Joseph Anthony & Co.
OiStotier 21. |5
To be Rented,
A Small and Convenient B R E WER T, at
Morris Ville, ofpo/Ue Trintsn.
ALL the Apparatus for Brewing new and in good
repair: A number of Barrels and Half Barrels will
also be rented. PofTeffion may be had at any tin*?.
Enquire of Mr. Garrett Cottringer in Philadelphia,
or Mr. Robert Morris, jun. or Daniel Mun at Morris-
Ville.
October 20, tnth&siw
LODGINGS.
WANTED~TO RENT,
Plainly furnifhed, (bedding excepted) a Parlour or
Sitting Ro®m, two Bed-Cnambes, and a Kitchen A
Ene addressed to J. J. at the Printer's, No. 119, Chef,
nut-street, will be attended to.
Ofloher 22. <;
Loft Last Evening, %
At Ricketts'i A:.* hitheatr-, (supposed to be taken by
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containing about 185 dollars in banknotes; three notes
of hand of Rosa and Simfon, No. 304, 305 and to 6, da
ted 12th last August, payable 60 days aft«r date, to the
order of Paul Sieraen, together for 5150 dollars ; an ordof
of Mrs. Ann Vacpherlon, from Paul Siemen, on Lach
lin Mac Neal, Efq.at Port-au-Prince, for 100 dollars - b--
fides several letters and papers of no Sfe but to the proprie
tor. The notes of hand and order are without endorfc
ment. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to
any person who will discover and fec V e the thief,' and
FORI DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
oned notes and papers at No. 129, corner of Front an<l
M»lbfrry Greets. d OS. j-.THE PANTHEON, .
C?"*~ And Rjcx&tts's Amphitheatre,
For Equestrian and Stage performances, Corner of
Chethut ant! Sixthftrects.
TIHS EVENING, WEDNESDAY, October a 6,
Will be presented,
A variety ofpleafingEntertainments.
•» HORSEMANSHIP.
Mr. Ricketts will pick up a pin from the ground, i
the liorl'e in full speed. .
And in particular for thi» night, Mr. Ricketts will leap
over a pole ten feet high, the hotfes in full speed.
After which will be presented,
A COMIC DANCE,
By Mr. Durang, who will change from a dwarf three
feet high, to a woman fix feet high. I
Equestrian exercises.
By Mr. Ricketts and Co. ,
And (by dtfire) will be presented for this night) (
The Sports of Newmarket ; ,
Or. The PONEY RACE'S. ]
Ar.d (foi this night only) the whole to "conclude with (
a Pantomime, called, f .'
The TRIUMPH of VIRTUE,
Or, Harlequin everywhere, f
Among other scenery will be represented,
An elegant view of Jl
■-Broadway and the Government-House in Netu-Yori. c
41fo, j
yf grand v'uiv tf the Delaware and Jersey Shore. ,
To commence with the original Overture of f
OSCAR and MALVfNA. f
Harlequin, Mr. Sully. r
Lover Mr. Tompkins.
Pantaloon, Mr. Dura'ng. w
Punch, Mr. Coffie. "
Palliafo, Mr. F. Rickets It
Pfer°) Mr. Spinacuta. I_
Arfel, Mrs. Tompkins. [ r
■And Columbine, Mrs. Spinacuta.
MANDARINS, * '
Meflrs. Griifin, M'llroy, Grant, Sqider, Mills,
Frost, See.
Sailors, Watchiuen, &c. by the reft of the
Company.
In tlit course of the Pantonine, the favorite h
song of
, ICH BIN KIDERLICH.
By Mr. SULLY.
The whole to conclude with the view of a th
Superb Temple, de
AND A m<
DANCE by the Characters. Nt
£3* Days of Performance to be Mosdty, Wednef- an
day, Thursday and Saturday. dc
» The Ladies and Gentlemen w 1;o ferure feats in let!
Ihe day time, are requested to attend punAually at 7, tr ,
as the performances are so at-ranged as to conclude by '
lo o^elock—the doors will open at 6.
£? Box, 7 >. 6d—Pit, 3 s. 9 d. ' do
1 ickets to he had of Mr. Ford, at the ticket office in vv '
Chefnut-ftreet, from ten to three o'clock each day.
tT Silver Tickets, to admit for the season, to be had ! evi
by applying to Mr. B icketts at the Pantheon, or at Oel- l v
lers's Hot!.*. J
' „ __ Ft
FOR SALE, aiii
An elegant HOUSE, No. 78, Walnut
ftreet; ' dcl
1 , W i nCH "%s fe4t fror ' A ' b ? 171 eet witß a
!° I ' 3 / ee ! w ' d <- Hy >»' feet 8 inches ,
l" p ; <™!" ,ot '! back the house owupied by tflc
George Willing, Esq.) The house is completely finifh- Co
bl .'° C T ery rc , pe f l, his JO feet deep, has two val
Xr -' feet, the back one is hei
« feet by 18 i-z feet, a handsome drawing-room, ?!
*4 feet by * 4 feet The roo'ms below, thl draw
uig-room and the chanibei-s adjoining, have mahaganv
doors, and these as well as the rooms above them havl the
a communication with each other. The height in the S' c
r and fecoiid ftot-y is 11 sett, and have ibco cor-
J- 1 r f < ? ,ns U P ftoirs > befidej the garrets, and
which are divided into three rooms,-® good kitchen
wash-house, milk and large ice- S "
. hou fc, a pump 111 the yard, and 4 3 feet 1 i nc h illev
!me HT° F ° Urth - (lr<:ft ' The ce,Urs "e laid with ° f
lime, and floored With two inch ? lank, and'plaftered ihll
The yard is wel paved, and the house is clear of the
KeH ' t -°°T be " S in exp
trie chamber bells ring in the pzrret a* ur«»ii • .1
entry down Hairs, /a e'tie/
except the one next to the drawing room, which ™
U W a lf v riW "' f? " room a »' J two parlours be
ow, marble chimney pieces. The drau lag-room, the
be! V»-- t'-e entry, are
cpe rift'v e." "in the
the back buildings, from the cellar, all the Tn
have large closets, and in ,he cellar is a laV J Ltde'
. rack, a wine store is taken off of the cell,r , a /
bins to hold bottled liouor are mld«T {T'r V /
Joft are as well plailered as anv room In .i, j, r T ns '
Ir.ftort, the house i,rn every refpccfcomnlet I /'ar
«" r
iges, the other ore. Thefmalleft itahl- K Car J'" ° fll
three, and the large.i for foufhoVu •°° m / 0r ln
on Wa!n«t-ftreet by feet, inches dJ' tv' iaBS
ta)e excellent lofts over rhem. The bisildinc-« *'^ 0
and laid .ith lime and t.o-ineh I,e
rem I X '°°- P s" of :I« dear 0 f ground ,£ »
rent, and has the pnvuecfc of an tr t * u , 1 1
kads into Fifth-ftreet. _\Ko a brick ftori , H \
on Fourth-ftreetj bv co feet deer j v ' C V I
filial! expenu- be turned j at a l^at
give immediate pofleffion of. ° re and flablei 1 would conf<
Getrge Veade, does
OA. 2 g. • No * ?8 ' llou t Street. for v\
* " ' dr. Freni
LOS I YESTERDAY T >' ,d
. A Nets of Hand, ' c,a £
c«s J,
No. ios, North Th ; rd Iree- tB ' hl "* bfcrlber »t ent r
— thcil 8
W £?
vance
mimnvxwr
?, 'FREDERICKSBURG, Odober 19.
er of Yfifterday wa» tun over the course near this
a race of four mile heats. The beautiful Virago,
the property of Mr. Taylor, took the parse from
Mr. Page's black herfe, and Mr. Thornton Alex
ander's black colt, without a touch of the whip.
QtS. >f»r the Republican Citizen.
Mr. Mullin,
Nat to your sentiments as a man, but to your
jund, impartiality a» a printer, the author looks for the
insertion of the following :
ea P Last night, as I lay on my bed,
. ' This curious dream came in my head,
That a mod'rate man appeared,
'■ ■ —■ ———and said,
three If Mr. JefFerfon is elected Piclident of the Uni
ted States, all the present ofii;ers of government
will be put out of office. Perhaps Burr vijll fill
the place of Pickering, as secretary of state, and
the 18 virtuous Virginians will canvas for the other
vacant offices. Pinckney will lie recalled from
France, and Mason (that treaty hero) will be fub
ivith ftituted. In J 5 months we will be involved in a ru
inous war, which will terminate in the fall of the
present fabric of gbvernmeut, and a disunion of the
Gates. In the mean time, every Frenchman in
America will become a pensioner. On the other
hand, if Mr. Adams is ele&ed t® that important
ori. office, which he alone is best able to fill, the cili- ;
Zens of America will walk forth to their fields ia
,re ' peace ; there will be no revolution among the pre- i
sent officers of government; laws will 1
be adrainiftered to us; the faee «f the tepublic, i
from Georgia to New-Hampshire, will be clothed
with abundance and peace; the people willbe uni
ted ; our rivers will swell with commerce; our vil
lages in a few years will grow to cities j and our
United Eagle will float thetaoft refpeftable of flags,
in all the ports, rivers and bays in the universe. a
t
Late Foreign Intelligence, d
the B V THI AMERICA, CAPT. EWIHXS. S
: Head quarters of his royal h'lghmfs the Archdule *
Charles ; Zell, near IVurtzburg, Sept. j, 1796.
MY LOR»,
YelWday the" citadel of Wur'txburg capitulated;
the garrison, to the nUtsber of 700 men# surren
dered themfelyes prifoaers »f war. General Bel- T
mont chief of the French artillery, is arnoHg- the
number. 81
A prodigious quantity of stores, of ammunition, f '
rtf. and provisions, lias been found in the town and cita
del ; partly left thereby the Auftiians, partly col.
im leded by requifitton from th* neighbouring cuu«.
Intelligence is received that the enemy has aban
dotied in Schweinfurt, seventy piece 3 of artillery,
•in which he was unable to transport. w
From the reports of the corps in front, there is
lad every reason to believe that the enemy has decided- «
,el - ly quitted the Mfiyn, and direded his retreat to &i
u T a .* The light troops which have b«en sent m
pursuit, continually bring in prisoners & baggage ; tr
and the Peasantry, exafpeiated at the unit's;J of CC
It- outrages of the enemy, has risen in maay pan , » n< i
•deliver up or destroy all the ftraggleta #ho fall into ,
their hands. hj
les 3 r °y 1 h'ghnefs, determined to persevere in
b y the fame line of operations, this j]*y detached Col. r
fe- Count Meerfeldt, with ten'fquadrons of light ca- ,?
wo valry, to form a junction with the garrisons of Man-
1S heim and of Mayence ;by which mesns a corps of
12 or ' J.OOO men will be enabled to ad in the rear
ny °! From the Jftingmfoed abilities of
ve the omccr to whom this enterpiife is entrusted, tlie
he greatett hope* are entertained of its fucceTs.
>r- The army moves this day towards Werthei'm • wi
and the head-quarters will be to-morroiv at RcnSin' g ri
"> gen.
y, B y 'J l6 last accounts received from the other fide mc
th °... i - )anul>e » " appears that general La T our ha,
d . "HI maintained himfelf in front of Munich 2 but ed
of the fucceffe* on this fide had lot then produced the Tl
id expcited effect, of forcing general Moreau to are lo(
•! «lr, ' r , dly - f=CmS P° l{lblc thal fcouki now P'
' venture to delay :t. hes
e _ 1 have the honor to be, See. on
ROBERT AN^TRUTHER,
—: — — 1 ——-Captain 3d. C«a«d. °J
—— -de!
'» T " x *'">f" <I»JVRORy,. f „„ Hml
le papers.
1) in MILAN, September 5. cau
•t ■in rccond iTOf-'lamation addressed to the Tyro- b«
a « ".vites them to confer th«'f" 'S
tpc does not ffiive to ra ,ke conoucfts
■ t Itural bsundaries the Alt beyoud her na. pnn
.» that fte might e y Tv 1 Rh ' ne •' a " d
I r
J TlKrc 'k''
does not appear that peace altha' f'*" . H " wev « r 11 r ,H e
, ill soon be conclE The
French are exorbitant Lehrb' a -J, ? of ,hc n «r<
ciation. K 10 °P ea * nego- y,
■ r r hh " dr ' i - (
»cd to aluck , lie „« T,t"
ent number of French are A' 'a j P fts * A fuffici- Bays,
Wp them in order. They are'rff-■" I T
being fired at with irranc k 'hreateaed with sos n
their duty. Neverthelc' Wur'mfw' 7 fc'U not d° the^
but the great majority of thefT r ,T n °? oubt
him, if he wa , on | y a Wl!1 j 01 " t'ace
vance against the enemy* Gtuation to ad- jpeafa
upon
. w
'• V - . . v • , ,* " ' -r' _ \ .~i »
*
COBLENTZ, Sept. 9. .
j . 6 o'clock in the evening.
The heavy of Jotirdan pafTcs this mo- I
OVVI ?#! mtut through this town. The French troaps are
concentrating in the environs of Wifbaden, wliere
\Px a ? ene,a ' and decilive battle is At lea.t
it is certaiu that thole tioops, wUich wereyeiterday
I! P' posted between Ncuwied, Dierdorf and Hacheu
burgh, advanced this day towards Wifbaden.
The siege of Ehreubreitfteiu is tarried on with
redoubled activity, and for that purpose the French
continue to fend over all kind of ammunition. Lad
night the garrison of the let some rockets
fly, which probably served to inform the Auftrians
of the fituat'ion of the place; the fame day the
French pioneers were harraffed on all points. To- ]
Uni- Jay all is quiet. 1
ment — 1
11(511 MUNCHENAU, September 9. <
and The Austrian general La Tour has again been* j
>ther forced, after a veiy bloody engagement, to fall
from back, and evacuate the fortrefs of Land/hut snd t
sub- his jiofition behind the Ifcr. The French light ]
j ru- troops purfaed him to within a (hart d:ifar»ce «f
the Brattnau, where fie has retreated in order to (top I
■ the the farther progress of the French in Aufttia. O.n
nin this fide the French general Moreau, tvhofe artsy
ther | amounts to 82,000 men, is complete dialler of Bap
tant vafja, and it is generally believed that the" corps of t,
cwi- general Ferino has not only jiaffed tha Inn near p
Is ia Bnrkerfhaufen, and entered Upper Austria, but al- tl
pre- so thatitwo conliderable French corps are advancing o,
will rapidly along the Inn and Ifer to Jnfpruck, which S
>lic, is no more than sixty miles front this-city, ' U
hed J*-, li
iiai- """" «,
vil- Trcrjlatcd for the American Daily Advtrlifer. w
®ur HASSIA, September 6. . • bi
igs, A raeffqngrt- who arrived litre just now brings ths u|
account that the fort of surrendered on th
f—. l be 4th infiv in die morning. The engagement pi
near Warubuig on the 3d, w&3 uncommonly mur
derous. The French firft chief of artillery, and T
general of division, Bellemont, \vas taken piifoncr. m
Tb< English colonel Crawford who was mortally
'ult wounded near An berg, and afterwards taken prifa-
was delivered up at the requetl of the Arch
duke. ' to
IRANKFGRT, September 6. of
Jel- French retreat much quicker towards the
the Lah " 3nti lht Lower than they formerly be
advanced. Franconia is totally evacuated, some few
Qn frontier places excepted. A number of the clerks
: ta ' a °d Secretaries of the different commifiioners have
ol been wounded by the armed Franconian peasants.
" Ycllerday a new hospital was erected in the Com- tra
pollell, betides the great one in the Germanic hotel, 10
where mod all the soldiers bro't there, were fuchas '°
had been wounded by the peasants. Ten peasants
who had either pluHdtied some baggage waggons,
, ncar Afchaffeuburgh, or had been found armed,
;d were (hot here by the French, before the gate of 'T
Safhfei»ftauffcn. " w h
Ttie division of generals KJeber and Lefebvre re- *° r ,
e _ treat by Wetzlar, towards the Lahn, and to Sieg-
J eu—another division of the French is laid ta march V "
ad a p' n l Da . rmlUdt » Grofoerau and Oppenhei'm. In raJ ,
{o this diretShofi, they will 6nd the garrisons of Man.
h*im and Mentz in their way, and they may t;et u , nC
into a bid Ctuation. clui
If the lmperialifts ean advance whh a fufficient P ar
a iorce, it is supposed that the French will not be a-
l " t ° alßtaiß themfclm on the Lahn, as they
of have loft a great deal of ammunition, and have been f,tU
lr °bhged to leave molt all their artillery behind. au
of September 9.
■ Ie ° ur c,, y''""fiw occupied by the Imperia {
lifts, and the Imperial gazette now again decorated 0 f ,
?£uf Ron " n E,slc '"" ,ht p»"- &
" 1 he Fiench left this city at three this
36 r/ mn fl'V V fV 11 ; !f3ft d,f ° rder ' after tav.ng
Jr d pofleffion ot the fame from the time they march
" T£f" «1 -r W ' 7 ' for the f H ace o{ 54 day« 1
le 1 lie Imsi, prnfo,, which remained here la!l night, mot
E . took the following precautions tofecure theii retreat, man
w b P "J T ? a, L e * ° f ,he cit s'' the r f=>wed off the poll!
5 ? h n e M t 'I' 8 " 1 ° n ,hC itMC brid^
over the Mayne they threw the wooden part of the ried
of Jhl 'ftl" U T 1 ' hay Wanted to bl ' Bw U P a part been
L f. ,hc SftQC feu* W.trty L
Sf"Vf,!" T 1U 1 P& ,h£ th«w the troo
key, of jhe gate into the drub. . agai,
" 2 °' do '-' k im the ,
ran I M """J ° f the Kir ™r borfe, his )
termave " with captain de Sehmut- perft
i, Ty whh » 1 k r eni r hufE - r3 ' "teud .he oed I
e fniall Frer'h lavm f* ta ken prifbners a with
: K*
f : ?ar CU i a ' y taval 4 P»®d this to tu
there on lire cth fr^,-f 1 r ' anlle ' l cotllc
the Fiench were cu- off f W'k ' C P achi
" In.the m. fi T' he ,oad t0 I:cr ps
baggag,. wagg on , wcte '4° S
hve, Bt 1 'edburg rive.
marched this day ihroorhTl' ' fh ' S van 3 uard flicnd
iteiii. c »y through this city towards Konig- favoui
/ pa(Tfs.
jNSS^,' w «'"r) s^.,, dJI
ptcr the Frach h,d hr ""
flays. our city lor 62 lias a 0
( The Witterau has fnff-r»j 1 , i,ltcnt
[of general Jourdan's army iflt V"'"' aC<
|the tpidli of the cou-itri' « through fubjec
Uoft 01l tlteir cattle a. /' H l" V|lla ff cs have All er
called S z la » ro » fl y
jpeafanu opposed the Fran h <lrmftadt » the pacba
Ps :<*
• year, of age, t« 9 ethcr, : w>h zj- inhabitants Uft\
** vv 'T r* Vi '^ C ' S ° f Lc 'B c ® trn > Siinifer.fi,,)
,wt \ Panly P lu,;dcred an d parti* burn, /
i- are When the feveul of ChedifWa. of p„r ]
»>e« le« Urmfladt, learned that the retreat of thj
lea;. French wouid be direded through those cart* !
erday they collected to the number of 4,000, undef tfiel
then- command ot M. de Schenk, and waited for the re.
.rearing fiench column in the mountains near Alf
w«h feldt. When the French advanced/ti XffnJ
rench Hood there fjuliy armed in parade. The Fre 1
Lad cavalry astonished drew their fword3, Mr. dc'
icketl than rode up to the French general, and declared'
tr.ans that his army of peasants was 15,000 ft r 6 Be '
r the that they were convened only for the purp B fe „f
lo- pnUt&ng the country from being plundered I
that it was not their intention in the lea ft to m„ ■ \
left the retreat of the French, bat that they were )
. d f te " ninc < J « destroy ,hem all if commenced
beers po.ndenng.tThe French then quietly proceeded.
' ! L ? mon « th .«lPP f nalgenerals who passed through /
S nd these part., inUriuit 0 f the French, wa, p,,4 /
light, Frederick of iDrange. J
stop! FROM THE FRONTIERS OF BAVARIA
n September 7. 9
.ray YtfteUay the imperialjlt. and the corps of the
bn- prince de Conde, were obliged to quit their advan
s of tageous portion on the other tide of the Iter op
near pofite Maachei), in order not to be ou.flankrd bv
t al- the republicans. The latter are aow in poffeffioo
cing oi theifer. In the engagement on the firft 'of
hictJ September, near Gergfenfeldt, the impertalifts had
S im t'r 6 beh,nd fcvera ' clnnon, the French had
- . «ke\vi.e a great many wounded. The day before
yifterday the head-quarters of general Mareati
were already in Wolznach. The ceflation ef arm.
between 13avariit and France is said to be agreed
; th.B upon J it is faiJ to be concluded a» VillenegcH, and
lon the ck&oJ-, betide great requisitions in kihd, is to
lent thirty millions »f ready cast to the republic,
mr- The French are said to have entered Freg&ngen.
and The army of general Moreau consists of °So,oqc>
tier. men.
ally - .
;^a " BILBOA, September iB.
ch- On the 25th inftaut, orders arrived from Madrid
to lay an embargo on all English veffeU-i,, thf»
port 5 but there happened not to be a single vefiel
of that nation at Bilboa at that time. On the
the a neutra l entered this pjort, which had
;rly examined by four frigates and a under
Few colours cruizing off this port.
rlcs "■
ave HAMBURGH, September 16.
,ta. The Erlangen gazette fays, that 8,600 Frencfe
m- tro °P. s » are on their march from Stralburgh, 4c.
, el) to join the army of Jourdan, and that Pichcgru is
ia * to have the command of the army of the Sambre
n(s and Meufe in lieu of the last mentioned general.
n», rc P orte d that in the neighbourhood of "*
:d, We,2 ' acr a vtr y severe engagement took place bei
of tween the French and the ganifou of Mayeuce,
which turned out much to the disadvantage of the
re former.
:g. 'houfand Hungarians have pa(Ted through
ch wa Kgons, proceeding to reinforce genei
raf field raarfta? — -
in- ' ' le 1 ' Saxony, who had 60,000 meo
ret underarms, hid notified the emperor, he had con
cluded a peace with the French, and that Buona
,nt parte was penetrating into Tirol.
a _ A courier from Jourdaa was captured by the
c ,, Auftriar.s with difpatchei for Moreau, relating the
cn situation of the army in consequence of the Aultii
au fuccelfes.
September 17.
a , majeflythe king of Sweden, under the name <
;d of the count de Haga, apd the duke regent, under
a " that of the count de Wafa, arrived at St. Pnerf.
. burg os the 24th of Aujjult last.
" s
CONSTANTINOPLE, August 10. \
— i he Fi-ench ambafiador, M. Vcninac has the -a
moil decided influence ®th the Porte, and is in a \
t. manner looked upon as the director-general of <he \
, e political affairs of the fame. Afttr several late 1
re meetings of the divan, the armaments here are car
le ried on with the greatefl alacrity j and orders have
rt been dispatched- to the pachas in the European and
1 ' Aftallt ffKJ*ii!Ll'£, to ihnr couiiiigents of
e tro<jp». That these preparations are not intended
against the rebels in Romeiia, 13 mott certain. For
1 the chits thereof, Sump, having been beaten, and I
r, his head sent hither, the army is almofl totally dif- |
. perfed ; and the beylerbeg, who hitheito comman
c tied near Adrianople, has received orders to advance.
a with 40,000 meß, towards This
d marth makes a great deal of noise here. TfccFienclt I
e that are here fay publicly, that it is intended by :hi»
s march of the Turki/h troops, to force the emperor
- to make peace with the Freosh, in order that th»
f latter may be enabled to encreafe her matine, and
s to turn all her efforts against England. These cir. I
. cumftance6 have occasioned here the report of an I
approaching rupture with a peaceful neighbour, I
1 whose powei, and the prefervalion tliereof, is per. /
haps of more confequenee for the Porte, than i« I
• commonly supposed. /
In the mean time, the Porte has frefh rebels to I
I contend with, in the interior of the empire. Thlr ft
pacha yf Midden is marched with a considerable t
torps, to take poflcffiun of the citie. of Niffa and B
1 Sophia. l'o the latter, $qoO men have been fent,l
in oider to entrench themfeives.there, until the reitf
ot tlie troops, which iia'vf teen ordered,-fhall arf
rive. The pacha, meanwhile, has a great number of
si iendsin the army, as well ae at court, who fecretlyl
favour hi«n, swd give him icfoimatipH of all that! *
pafi#s. t
1 he pacha of Scutari hat Hkewife raised the ftan. j
dard of rebellion again. A' 'he head of 6000' men, I
he makes all the neighbouring pachas tremble, and }
has a£lually defeated two ot them entirely. His t
intention is to take levenge of the Monten<-grines,
on account of the insults and damages he and his f
ftibjefts have fuffered on several occalions from them. J
Ail enemies that fall into his har.ds are mod barba- '
rotifly murdered. I'he Porte has lent orders to the
Ipacba of Bofuia, nud to all the pachas of Albania,
immediately to put themselves at the head of their
ticops, in order to oppefc the rebelliuus pacha, y. /
DRESDEN, Se P t«mW 5, |
The imperial minider, count de Slick, hil pro- I
(tiled, in a particular declaration, in a mod solemn |
manner, against thu surrender of the city of Nu- I
reraberg and in territory to the king of Prufiia.—
The fiee imperial city of Dunkelfbuke, is likewise I
jroing to fwbmit to the fovcreignty of the king of I
Prussia. I'
/ COLOGNE, Suptember 13.
The French head-quarters are already transferred 11
/to Andernach, on this fide of the Rhine. Last J I
night an express arrived here from that place, with 11
orderi to remove the magazines here to a place of c
, Cifety. Great part of the French Sambre & Meufe j t
army, i« making through the territories of Treves I e
1 towards Lu*embourg, in order to cover that neigh- I d
boarbood. The baggage of generals Lefebvre and c
Kleber is arrived here, and about 20 waggons load- f<
ed with money." ' " f<
HEIDELBERG, September 12. >
It is supposed, that we shall have foen some feri- I d
work in this neighbourhood. Several thouiand I E
•men, cavalry of the army of the archduke,' have si
arrived here. They have this day been joined by a N
part of the garrilon of Manheim, at Schwetzingar,
and marched towards Bruchfal, wbese the garrison in
of Philipfturg, the siege whereof the French have ac
enrirely raised, will join them. We expc£t there- F
fore an engagement between the imperialists and th
the French, who have here about 4.000 men under
general Eckenneayer. The peasants carried lately '
180 French prisoners, and two pieces of'cannon, E
1 through this place to Manheim, without any further
\military efeort.
it
Philadelphia, . he
—: .h
WEDNESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 26, 1796.
On Saturday the »*ad iaft. departed this life in ihe !
79th year of his age, Lewis Weiss, Esq. an emi
nent Conveyancer of this City.
ELECTION RETURNS.
«a — M
Cumberland County. cifl
Congreft—-Andrew Gregg, 575
William Irvine, 560
Jarnes Wallace, 139 „
Robert WhitehiH, 86 ">'
Thomas Kennedy, 49 an
AfTembly—David Mitchell, 886 nui
James Lamberton, 713 wo
James Power, 710 ner
Robert Lufk, 518 cm
Epferaim Blaine, 410 I .1
Thomas Kennedy, 49 r I
Adam Brandt, 203 I ma '
r Rabert Whitehill, jjz 1 waE
— I 'he
Mifflin County. . I to s
Congress—Andrew Gregg, j65 lof ,
William Irvine, 109 lat ■
James Wallace, so I ,
AfTembly —James M'Farland, I f 0
William Sterrett. I '
k jl . I Tin
ELECTION. Jinfe
A writer in a Bojlon paptr, on the fuljcS of the I m Y
approaching election, fays, I and
" Truly unfortunate would it be for our coun-J 00 *
try, if the republican interest was likely to be divi- I ani
ded upon thia great decilion—if there were a num. j ilum
ber of candidates, all of whom would be supported I ' rori
by their particular frieryls and neighbours, from a I I'
persuasion that all had equal pretenfione, and wouM I t ' ie
stand an equal ehance. Happily this is not the | 1101
cafe—the resplendent abilities, the faithful ferviees I '* "
and the inflexible patriotism of the Vice Prefidert
of the United State*, the illustrious ADAMS, ' caß
have long pointed' him out in the svinds of all well-1 lvln J
informed men, as the successor of Washington.) 2ttac
That Mr. Adams's election .will be difpuicd is not I ' 3e 'i c
doubted—but, by whom—by those who hate his troir
virtues, dread his talents, and tremble at his firm- ,e P' ;
sefs. The fame confiderarions which' induce th.-
enemies of our government to oppose him, fliould.l
unite its friends in the strongest bonds of Union.v '^ e ' r
; " Its own welfare, and the destiny of posterity, w *g|
ire involved in the use of which the. present gene j
ratios shall make of its [ ivfley es. And afrer hav-| to P'
ing laid so fair a foundation, Gracious Heaven for- | io,er
bid, that we diotild ourselves destroy it. An im- | Ren
proper choice of a Piefident at this period, might aDd !
undo all that Wa/hington has laboured to accom- j
plifh—give a dangerous turn to our foreign ref
lations—unhinge the machine of fiate, and perhaps A
furnifh the votaries ol despotism with a frefti argu- ,he c
ment in favor of their darling maxim, that mankind j Natit
were ra)t made to be free. the o
I house
Mr. Fenno, j comir
Whence this extraordinary exertibn in favour of I >nhab
Mr. Jefferfon > and wky are so many handbills in P°tfc,
circulation villifying Mr. Adams ? At whose qx. ' Vrhilft
pence is this bufioefs conducted? and what is the 4 9°t
cbjea of Mr. 'Jefferfon & his partisans ? My fuf-1 the m
fpicions are awakened by the most unfair and unjust dy fuf
proceedmgs of the anti-federal party ; and on en- ll| e w
quiry lam informed, that a congress was held at su ch '
Mr. Jefferfoo's house last year, at which all this bu- ad n«n
linefs was preconcerted, and all the lies invented. P°tic
Is it not extremely curious to observe, that while { moved
the honed federal lepuHicans arc continually resign j
ing, from the firft offices, because ofthe infufficieDcy]
for maintenance in the proviGon attached to thtfe { Extrfli
offices, we find the hungry exelufive patriots ftirrin R I
ail the elements to get into places, which honest " 1
and prudent men find unprofitable .' I Bay o
|Piat can this mean ? Do the antifederallfls hope °f thr
to effefi important changes in the fifcaldepartment cd .»' b
in 1 heir favour ? or is to be obtained j habitai
by the event of their appointment to offices? Sure-J wl "? re
ly they have something in view to balance tfceir ac- I foTtific
counts, or their industry and calumny would not be and 1
To extraordinary. ' in the
===== j think t
BY THIS DAY'S MAILS. Si
, BoSToN7oflob t r ,8. ' I"t*
It ii said that admiral Graves arrived at Halifax I Capt ]
the week before last from England, with »n addi- a barb,
| lional naval fqree for that station, and several trans
a pro- J ports with frefh troops for the garxifon. The news
solemn j comes by the way of Shelburne.
f Nu- I Oflober 19.
ffia— NEWFOUNDLAND.
Lewife The at|ack on the island of St. Johns, by a
ing of I French fqaadron, is confirmed ; with the deftruc-
Itionof the hamlets at Bull's Bay and Piacentia. A ;
I vefTel from thence, arrived yesterday. in three weeks I
I —by her we learn, that the fleet confided of ten I
ferred fail, almost all of the line ; but not supposed to ;
Last j have many troops on board—that they had not at- r
with I tempted the town of St. Johns, but continued c
ice of cruifiog off the coast. It was however supposed 2
Vleufe they would make the attack ; and would be refill- t
Treves ed, as the island could raise nearly yoso men. A (
icigh- j dispatch had been sent to Admiral Murray, who r
e and ccnild not fend any assistance. Capt. Girdler at
load- j sea spoke a brig two days fail to the Eait of New- ti
I loundland, and was informed by her, that a fleet it
jof 10 fail of the line, and two frigates bad taken ti
I Newfoundland, a 50 gtln ship and two frigates un
: feri- der Ad. Wallace. The brig had difpa?ches for
jl'and England. This last is the Jateft. A Marblehead
have fifhing.fchooner was spoke having passengers from P '
by a Newfoundland or board.
agar, Capt. Curtin from Halifax, about 15 days since, <
rifon informs that admiral Murray lay there, with a 74
have aad 4 frigates—the people expected a vitt from the
here- , He supposes there are about loao troops!
and there. .
nder I I Sf
ately I CARLISLE, O&ober 19. j
non, I Estraft of a letter from New-York, of the 4th I
rther inft. to a gentleman of this place.
j " Mr. Hamilton publicly declares, that he thinks j
— I would be belt, on the score of conciliation and I
j expediency, to e!e& Mr. Jefferfon President, since S ." h
he is the only man in America that will secure us] 4 i
j the affeAion of the Freneh republic.'* 1
(6. I £Tli£ cause mud, furcly, be a dying, IDe
That it fnpported by such lying.] I
emi- NEW-YORK, o(ftober 25. j —
Trarjlalcd for the Minerva. I
j BRUSSELS, Sept. rz.
The retreat of the army of the Sambre and I g n
Meufe, under gen. Jourdan, is more serious and de j
ciftve, than it was at firft thought to be. The re- —
publicans being eonftantly purftied and attacked by ( '
an enemy of superior force, have been compelled to I —
fly in a hurry, that they were obliged to leave j ~
artillery, baggage, and in particqlar ah amaxing I
I number of killed and prisoners behind them. The j
I word yet remains. The different columns of ge- i
neral Jourdan's army had to a£l separately in a
country which is .divided into narrow passes, and
I thus every one was separately worded in a dreadful
I manner. In such a preiling fitualion a decided part j
I was to be taken, in order to save the remains of
I the army, and therefore g«n. Jourdan gave orders! Anc
I to all these columns to rendezvous on the right bank
los the Mein. The ftaff of said array was already
Jat Frankfort on the sth inft. and also troops at or '
j about that city entirely worn down fey fatigue and I
I hardships, and most part without clothes and Ihoes. |
j These troojjs-arriving in great disorder it is to b<
J inferred that the misfortune of the republican ar
rhe \m7 be very considerable. All the baggage
I and artillery of reserve is to be sent to Limburg I
in-J HQ 'he Labn, whil/l the army will choose a good I Sil.
vi. I Hand behind the Mein, where they will wait for the
m . numeiuws reinforcements which are sent to (hem „- L
C( j I from all parts. I
, a In the mean time, the imperialists are filing down
,M the river with a considerable force, and if they aic So
h e J not arrested in their career by unforefeen events, it j parte
;es is to be apprehended, the army of gen. Jourdan
Tlt will be obliged to re-cross the Rhine. Gen. Mo-1 ?!'
S, I '«» will also have to fall back to prevent his left A;
il. Wing being surrounded by the imperials, and an Di
N . attack m the rear. The greatest part of the troops M
ot beficgirg thefortrefs «f Ehrenberitftein are ordered
lis f"" 0 " 1 th "e towards the Mein and very few sent to V .
replace tliefn The letters from Frankfort, Neu- m
h- wied, Coblentz and Trier, mention, that an ado- Rc
Id. number of wounded are daily brought to
their hospitals, and that the roads are covered with
y, loaded with these unfsrtunatea—we ex
c. ped to lee duriilg this week strong reinforcements
J*. 1 ' ,hr °ugh this city, which will come from the
,r. interior of the repubtic and resort to the army of Or,
a- 8 C "- Jourdan, as also a great quantity of artillery
j and ammunition. I
1-j — at
1-1 _ HAGUE, September 13.
„ A petition of a great number of inhabitant!"^
the city °f Arnheim, has bsrn prefent ed to till' Pri
d National Convention, bitterly complaining abotitl Davi,
the oppressive charge of quartering troops in their »<><>*
I houses, Sc in particular about the ordinance of the 06
. commttteeof th. country, which commaad. the'
,f inhabitants to ftlrnifh to each soldier 1 half polmd T .
" P t ior' r 1 - I beer ' &c at ,he rate of 3 offic,
. I whilst said articles cannot be provided for at kfs than Pri;
"} 9°r 10 ,tlvre '- Th ty represent this burthen as/ warra
j e , m ° rC *&8 rav ?-* tn g as the inhabitants have alrea"
\ dy fuffered unceafirigly by the long continuance Ut
'ft, Wa fun , h<rr "press, that no instance of A 7
, such an impofation has been experienced dsrino the\
. adminidration of the Stadholde,, or under anjTdet
. potic government-which grievance when not re. * tic
; moved will compel the petitioners to use resistance PERK
J —S celfary
1 EvtmA f I "^ AI,IF ' AX > October 6. bdejtc
Extrsa of a letter from Trepaffey, dated 9 th Sep. N< »'»
tember, 1 jq6 lumrd
" The French squadron anch o,ed the s th at the
Bay of Bulls, and landed 2 ,0c0 men in the cou rse ~
ed it by fire"" ' T'" S t0!all y
habitants Tl? pr , lf ° ner = principal in
habitants. 1 hey intend to march to St. John's « B , £
I where there is now j mr, ■ , ■>," '' Septem
fortifications manned'ShTe L a ™ S - Snd U,€ of th<;
and 1 fin™ ,u ' „ ? un 2 frigates £ ht faic
and 1 sloop, that are at St. John's, are ftanWd 11
in the narrows, and every body seems inclined t the wos
think they will give them a warm 1, ™ " r Ttl
it .a 1 the tiniverfal opinion that whether hey futceed «of A '
SyTeCT °" -L ohn ' 3 ° l n ° f > 3S thf/a
tally deltroy the out harbors." " An A
I uefday evening arrived here the bri ? lane theCo P
Capt Pryor, from Quebec, but last from Bradorc' and V
J a harbour on the Labradore shore, where captain "
1 trans- Pryor arrived on the ißth of September. Off '
ic Hews that harbor, the day he arrived there, he spoke hit
majeity's (hip Pearl, with the Quebec convuy, con 1
filling' of 14 fail, homeward bound. The fame I
night a heavy gale of wind came On, and the next
>, by a morning the Pearl and three fail only of the con
leftruc- voy were to be feeu from the (hore. On the 22d,
tia. A an expref» arrived from Fortau, a settlement in the
weeks Streights of Bellejfle, informing that three frigates
of ten belonging to the French squadron, had made their
fed to appearance off Temple Bay : that they stood in so S
ot at- near at to be fired at from a small fort which was g
tinued erected on shore, which induced the.m to stand off Si
ipof«d again. This express also brought intelligence, that K
refill- the three frigates were afterwards seen near the
i» A Quebec fleet, which was at the time in the nar- ?.
, who rowed parts of the Streights of Belleifle. C]
ler at Twelve fail of square rigged vessels belonging ? c
New. to Dartmouth, Poole, &c. were about half loaded Y
1 fleet in the adjacent hart pre, where they were exposed
takes to the deftrufiive ravages of the enemy.
rs un
"l f°j PHOCION No. X. came too late for this day's
*7 paper.
from
since, oazsttk of the united states marine list.
a 74 r , ■;
H> the PH 1 L A D E L ? HI J, October 26.
roops
ARRIVED, Days
Ship George, Wyat, Rotterdam 5»
§loop Nelly, Cottenliam, L'Anfeveau 15
4th Chanu, N. Carolina 7
links STOCKS. j^e
and „ ii
since I'* per Ce ° l - " " --- - - - 17/ ato 4d. Dit
Throe per Cent. ----- - 10/3 L ac
8 P« Cent. 14/ Al] ,
S{ par Cent. - lf/4 Co]
Deferred but per Cent. .... xj/- 5 w -
BANK United SUtes, - . . . 4 o " „
Pennsylvania Yoi
— North \merica, - » . -4Jto 4< Chi
Inluraßce Cemp. North-America/ 13 1-3 j
—Pennsylvania, par. Uni
COURSE OF EXCHANGE. ' Ditt
and On London, at 3c days, per £. 100 fterl. par. Ditt
" e " —— at 60 days, par to 162 I-»
1 re- at 9© days, i6t a 162 i-j
iby Amfttrdam, 60 days, per guilder, 40 A
Ito ' 9°<l»ys, . 44
' avc I . II WW«■> , i, ,
Ms- *8, NORTH SECOND-STREET.
g c! Joh-n Green & Co.
n a Havc or on low terms, for Cash or the usual Th
and credit,
jf' u J General dffortment of
>art Ironmongery, Cutlery, Brass and Ja
of panned Waresj
lers And a quantity of Ground White Lead, and Spanifti and
ink Brown in Oil anS Powder. A
idy LiKiiwua, p c
or A small invoice of Hats, of different qualities. clofn
ind oa ° ber a 6" asa/ T
b« Wau KolderneSse, No. 76, Cour
ar- HIVH-srsEiiT, A
tge Has received by the late arrivals, R t
irg _ W'll Seleded A ssortment of states
iod Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
•a Haberdalhery Goods, P enc<
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, on the very A ;
I'ow eft terras ; ' Penn
V '* AtnongJ} <wbicb «r< A
lie S(,me elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes aid Cottons, new An
,if patterns , tion.
a[) Ditto Fnrnitnre ditto gravei
j o Ditto Dimitjr haadli
" Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslins OS
' Ditto in Cpld and SUver
an Ditto Neckcloths, very fine p]
ps Mantuat of the firft quality
ec j Silk and Cotton Hoficry Inplus
(o Umbrellas of the firft quality, assorted
lrifli Linens, very fine, aad Table Linens
MarfciUttS and Cotton Counterpanes
O- Rose Blankets assorted—Sic. See.
to Oflobtr 26. j
x h This Day is Publilhed, ™
Its A SATIRICAL POEM, CALLED fnd ac
he He would be a Poet, phi«
of Or, "Mature -will be Nature Jill;"
'7 An HEROIC POEM. J 3
To ivhub ii annexed,
A 1 hfinkfgiving Epistle on Electioneer
ing Success.-
J » • By touchstone.
'% n " t *i or ji" s \ nth " r > and Wd by Mr. Benjamin B 1
„ Ofluber 16.
Wafliington Lottery.' "" m:
JJt^ 4 ts^xJSr h ' "~" M - * rss
Pr.Mfes in the above Lottery are eacbajiged for tickets
,5 warranted undrawn. 0 0&<
>J ; «&,_
\ { To be Sold,
I At No. 128, North Second-Street, and by Jt-veral oj 'T'Al
'-] r A t°t h ' ca [ l " City. If,
T r, i ht » raov e pains and inflamma on his
' PFRK'Tmc T um,n b9d y- as fecarcd to Dr. £HSHA ,
> celO, f u y P?'. cn£ ' wlth mftru.nents and directions ne- j
larly Th -' s . modc of is parties f
tide itomarK f"? p3 "" ,n thc heid ' t«th, br ca! L ert "°
, om ach, back, rheumatisms, reccnt gouts, &c, & e ftheme
• t° d,nK lhC f " ty us thU I"'*" « i'-t pre- Priety,
: June 1,
• ~ ) law ——."—
No- 15^.
Pc ■ D il lr '' a °J P"">fyfaania, to <w : t. /» pi
it remembered, that 011 the twenty-fourth dav of f\
■ Of P thc UnitS Willia: ' nd ' P '" Jcnce in « abo '
1
the words following, tu Wlt . ' dS P ro P"«or, in tion, an
«Hi
the Art of the Congress of the s COaform . it >' t0 h "^
"An A & for . stat «. intituled tion of t
the Copies of T"'" 5 b> ' iecurin S the orch
and n* un iftnr. ~f f. 'i r. and Books to the authors trees, i
mentioned.- " s'aMUe! CALDWELL,'CItrk "
i Diftria Pen«%lvania. j u | y t
£
. Off TXT A]NTS a situation as 3T.3RK,m a mercanule house
L)ltC his i ' n t ' lH c «y, a young mail who can be well rcco.-n
---f, con rae nded :he is well acquainted with book-keeping, and
' r vvrites a good hand. Enquire of the editor of the Ga
. lame zette of tlie United States.
e next O&ober 13. «d t
e con-
LANDING,
"igatfs Out cf different vejfels from Englanu, anil for fait
e their h fubjeribers on reafonab/e tcrmty
lin so Snperfiae and common cloths, and caffimers
I Ribb«d and (Iriped do. do. "*
' j W3 ff B ' an '" :t5 ' nettled preen and silk rugs.
no ott Superfine blue, Claret, and cemmon coatings,
, that Kerseys Bear-ikins, plains and Halfthicks,
f the Swahfltins, Serges and Flannels, f
e nar. Brit " h lilgrain Carpeting,
Hats assorted ;n cafcs of 12 d 07,. each.
Chocolate chintaes, printed Csrllicoea and Hanikerchici*.
Igmg Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
s«ded Yarn, W'orftcd, and 'Cotton hosiery,
posed Thickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. &c.
Buffand drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality. *>
6d. Bd. iod 1 id. 20d. nails, and frying pans,
An affortinent of Ironmongerry, Cutlery and a variety
day's of India cotton, and silk go u ds.
Therr.as iy Jqfhua Fijher.
... . , „, , , No. 5, Dock-fitreet.
Also by the Glasgow from Dublin,
IST. 1-8 and 4-4 Irish Linens assorted in boxes of 30 pieces,
do. Brown, Glazed Linnm.
OS. 17. dtf>
■- '
says New Hat and Hcsissr Stoke,
n ** Wholesale, and Retail,
I 25 7 By WILLIAM M^DOUGALL,
Ao, 134* Market Str&tt, door from the cornet
> B f Fourth, South Side.
Mens Black American and Englih Hats, of various qual
ities and prices. ' •
1 4d. Ditto Dfabs and Grecn-und«r».
Ladies' ditto black
And a large affortinent of fancy ditto *
Coloured Beavers
With a great variety of el.gant and faftiiofiable -
wings' &c. •"
black an<J drab coloured ditto.
fancy ditto
All kinds of Clt, silk and cotton, cotton and thread bote
Knit coloured Pantaloons
" Ditto Drawers
Ditto Breeches Patterns
Silk Gloves
Knotted, coloured ditto, cotton.
40 A xr Ua « "^° f " lendin K co «»n, sorted Colours.
4 J r he nats fimlhed in the newest fafhoß.
ma —- — - eodim;
7 THIS Djr IS PUBLISHED,
By Benjamin Davies,
' 68, Higb-ftreet,
fuai Ihe American Repolkory of ufeful
information, for 1797.
[a- . , VONTAINING,
A Calendar for the year
A complete Regiller of the Executive, Legislative.
u(h and Judicary Officers of the General Government.
Ponna p^M t <t ry orc " of thc United
Pofl-Office Eftabiifhmtnt times of receiving and
closing the Mails »t Philadelphia. '
f The pest read, and towns, and their distance's,
~ CourtT* ° 2 the Su l jrsole ' Circuit and Diftri^
A ÜbU of Imp<>a duues,
A the cultom house offiders and their lee*.
Kulcs tor reducing the currencies of the frversl
states into one another, and all of them into th*rao.
lc ] ney of the United States. 1 -
e!of "hie of pounds, Ciillinga and
pence, in dollars and cents.
:ry p««?fv«f,. of * eo * cersof -
A gardiner's calendarfpr Pennsylvania.
:w f : n W T e f, t r! ar ' Ctyof othera " icles of ufefal inferrfta-
Etnbellifhed with twelve elegant vicnette- an en
graved tirle-page a H d frontispiece, I
""ft a" " Ufefu1 ' " ttle Ck " co "'panion.
— : 1— aawtf
Plans of the city of Philadelphia
diftrW of
SOUTHW'ARK,
Published, and fold bv
benjamin davies s
No. 68, High street,
TnTC , . (Price one dollar.)
IHlaplanis a 6 inches square, and ha-e >,»»« ,
graved by one of the firft artists j n the citv fm™ i*?
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam!
phlet with «aeh plan, giving « r ome account us the
" lul P°P uj4tlcn > 'rade, government, &c.
J " y 19 tu&ftf
Sherjdan's Dictionary,
THE SIXTH EDITION,
. Is this Day Published,
3 , ZUti&i, 0 -
- «.
. rs&ggsgr-**--
October A
" tt&s
Mr. FRANCIS
/ T'AKPS Theatre)
I (Sf °PP° r J unit y of returning thanks to his
Icflolars and to the miblif M. c. • • 9
therto render, an. promts „f toIld , l( r, h f '*
schemes on the moll liberal and ftriftefltJL,« J
. priety, totally unnecessary. , terras, ot pra.
, N.B. Private tuition as usual.
June 3
— ■* fa »
To be foJd.
■ A
«on and very natural to the production of %
On said plantation there is * „ Clover.
with four rooms on a floor fnd a ™T^° ry b ' ickW < ; .
the whole ; together with a Crt S °° d d f y " Hlr "« d^
licufe, The garden C ° rt, - Cnbs al ' d "rrmge
tion of the belt kinds of Ja' e d an^Bn'"l "" CC
the orchard confifls of a^U t thrl A J :ul J ated fr «'t tr et s ;
tree, Any permit"
be informed of the term, by applying to prem,fes ' ma y
July xj ANDREW HUNTER.
FTHIS DAT PUBLISHED, I J
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, CUefnut-ftreet, 1
(Price 12 1-2 Cents) I jj Jye
The President's Address
70 the People of the United States, £ eHI
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life -tjrc
at the expiration of the present constitutional term 0. p
presidency. Rof
September 10. ,
Watson's Answer to Gibbon. ha
lls.l.
JUST RECEIVED, INI
And for rale By J. OHMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
Apology for Christianity, dm^
In a ferict of Letters, addressed to s e .
Edward GH»ON, ESQ..'
Author of the History of the Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire:
'By R. WATSON, D. d. f. |. s. Bishop of Landaff. T^o
(Price 75 cents bound ) J. c
Watson's Answer to Paine, cents
To be had at the'fame place. 1
• The enemies qf Religion are awake ! Let not her *
friends pep.
Sept. 1. mwAftf ia
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE, ' 10 60
Souchong
Hyfop Skin /
Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS 2335
Hyson and \
Imperial '
Yellow Nankeens 635 c
China Ware, assorted in Boxes and Chests B
Quicksilver '
Bandar.no Handkerchiefs of excellent quality hi erfoi
ihefls fore '
• London Market MADEIRA WINE to re
London particular >in pipes, hogsheads, &|n (
New-York Market 3 quarter casks in
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogihexds
Suear Candy by the Box con
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
♦•'Lead in i!.e«t»
3 Calks of Cutlery assort*9 ... " C
A few chefta of MancheltA" Goods, aiTorted.thick
cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black fewing-lilks
}S Tierces Virginia Snake-ro«f.
Nails aflbrted in calks —*
July_tß rnwfef
'70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the btft quality and on reajonable terms*
ICR SALE 3Y .
Philip Nicklin £5° Co. c "^
* Angaft t6. dai 1
For Sale,
A Tbree-Ilory BRICK HOUSE and Let, in Chefnut an j
JA street, bstween Front and Secocd streets, in which •]
Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and of
now do) carried on business.
Poffeflion will be given in one month, or sooner.
For terms apply tp WILLIAM BELL, or .i, e
HECTOR CALBRAITH. apf
iprfl M. §_ •]
A Manufactory FOR SALE. P r "
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufa&ory, situate acc
in a convenient part of the citv ; the works almost new,
on an entirely original eonftro&ion, built of ihe Left
materials, and may be set to work immediactly. Persona tO S
whow.iflato purchase, ate 16 apply at No. 273, at J
South Second Street.
September 13. ttf tf the
Brokers Office, and
COMMISSION STORE. J*
Mo. 63 South Third ftreet,oppofite the national new Bank. [,ir
SAMUEL M FRAUNCES and JOHN VAN REED, f er
have entered into co-partnership, under the firm of i ; n „
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers, |
Conveyancers and Commission merchants. They buy and _
fell on commission every species of stock, notes of hand,
■bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
MONIY procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds o r "V
writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatneli and . i.
dispatch; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the of
moll corre& manner. Coaftant attendance will be given, pel
They solicit a (Tiare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it. li
N. B. The utrooft secrecy observed. a<s
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, fu'
JOHN VAN REED. pii
Philad. august 27, 1796. m&wtf pa
Trcafury Department, "
September 28, 1796. ' <4 '
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofali will be re- "
eerved at the office of the Secretary of the Trcaftiry "
Bntil the expiration of the fi/ft day of Margli next en- "
suing, for the fopply of all rations which may he required ; "
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of ; "
fane, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both "
days inelufive, at the places and within the diftricSs "
after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara ; at "
Paefque Isle; at Sauciuffey Lake, and »n Sanduiky "
Rivsr ; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank- "
lin; at Pittsburgh ;at Ciocinnati.; at Fort-Hamilton ;■"
at Fort St. Clair; Fort- Jefferfon •, at Grenville; at "
Pieque Town and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ; at any place bslow Fort t
Defiance <jb the Miami River to Lake Erie; at Fort n
Steuben ; at Eort Maffac ; at any place from Fort Maffac f<
to lomh boundary of the United States on the river p
Miffifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon. c
If supplies (liallbe required lor any ports or places not ii
mentioned in this notiee, all such fuppljes shall be fer- g
nilhed at prices proportioned to those to he paid at the
pods before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on 2
between the United State- and the Contra&or.
The rations to be fupplicd are to conßft of the fol
lowing articles, vis. t
One pound two ounces of bread or flour. „
One pound two ounces <Jf beef, or fourteen ounces of {
.pork or baron. 1
Half a'glll of rum, brandy rr whiikey. ,
One quart half a pint of fa't."\ ,
Two quarts of Vimvar, ( , , ,
Two pounds of Seap, ( P er fanndrei » t,ons i
One pound of CanJleS, J ,
TfceTations are to be ftirniArf Hi such qnaotities, as that ,
there shall ar all tirr s ctuiiif the said term, be fufficient ,
{or the confiHttption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, fer tjie term of fix months in
advance, and at each olthe other posts, for the term qf
at least thrcemonths in advance, in gopil aHd wholesome
provifions,if thefame stall be required. It is to be un
derstood, that tlu- ContraiSor istq be at the and
risk of iffuingthe fuppKis to the troops at each post, and
tl>at all lofies fnllained by tile depredations of an enemy, or
fcjj means of the troops of tjie United States, shall be paid
for at the price of ch<! articifS captured or destroyed, on
the depoiitions of two or tsore persons of creditable cha
railcrs, ar.d the cerufieitc of a commifiioncd officer, as
certaining the circumftanceswDf the loss, andthe acount
•f the ai tides [ot which compensation fliall be tlaiujed
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the Trcafury.
1 JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8, CIIESNUT STREET,
I Have Imported in the late velTels from Europe, See.
1 AMD HAVE LOR SALE, No
A general afforUaetit of GOODS, suitable to the season—
Amongst whirh are, IrOF
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
Plain and twill'd COATINGS, _
Rose striped and point BLANKETS, ,
FLANNrfLS and BAISES, cut '
HATS alTorted in cases, u'J
IRISH LINENS, £ ,n 2'
INDIA GOODS, gsnerally,
A Consigned Invbice of IRONMONGERY, f t>
' Comprifiiig a capital assortment to upen a ftorc—-mclu- I an.-
ding Thirty Ca&s of NAILS. This invoice w.ll b: fold kwj
' entire 011 very advantageous term 6.
September V>. Eras
e t Saddl
Lottery k in ds
FOR raising Cxthoufand fix hundred and flxty-feven &c. i
dollars and fifty cents, by a deduction of fifteen per Oc
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prizi. viz
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 5000
I 1000 1000
r l 500 i°°
r aoo ioco Hrf
- JO 100 1000 P°
99 jo 495° frt
103 *S J- C 0 A 1
1060 10 10,000
i Lad drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000 D ,
233Z Prizes. Whit
4©lß Blank.6.
• — Boct
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44 s C coi
By ©rder of the Dire&ors of the Society for eftabliiu- pjair
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperint Aidauts of the Pat- p| a jj
in erfon Lottery have requeued the Managers to offer the
foregoing S«heme tp'the public, and have directed Plaii
to refund the money to those persons who have purchafcd
2c in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets fpr tickets W kj
in this Lottery. . I^aifi
The lottery has a&ually commenced dfawing, ant! will
continue until A lift of the Blanks and Prizes Q a fp
may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who Willgiveinforaiationwheretick- \{ or
ets may b» procured. Joan
Datedtbis I7tfi day of June, 1796. Cam
;K " J. N- GUMMING, 1 Sow
JACOB R. HAR.DENBERG, > Managers. Ra{ .
JONATHAN RHEA, ) Plai:
dtf ep
Samuel Rfchardet, 1 i
T> ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
JV Merchants, that he has this day opetiei the CITY ,
TAVERM and MERCHANTS C QFFEE HOUSE in the Q
city of Philadelyhia:
The SuWcription Room will be furnilhed with all the
daiiy papers publifiied in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the princip?l coir- 3°
mercial citigs Of Europe—They will be rigularly filed u
" ut and none permitted to be taken away on any account. 1
lcl J Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jsiliet, Ice Creams, and a variety
ll, d 0 f Jreudi Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments,
will at all times be procured at the bar.
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with -j- en
the choicefl of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the »K>ft Wii
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries, gj,,.
5 1 The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest j
productions of the Season.
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may he
jate accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at f
i hours most convi nient to thsmfelves—a cold Collation is "~
foni tegdlarly kspt for conveni*rcy, the till of fare »« be had
t .„ at tho bar.
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furniAed, and
tf the utmost attention paid to cUaiilincfs, and every other
~ requisite.
Samuel Ricuardet will be happy to receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at j
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
'"k- himfelf that nothing on his part shall be wanting to pr;- —
ED, serve that patronage with which he has been so dillinguifo.
1 i ingly i'lonored. I r --
ters, i Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
and j :
and ' Treasury of the United* States. "J,
So r VTOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
and ! IN may be Creditors of the United States, for any —*
the ' of the Funded Debt, or Stock, bearing a present intenf of fix I
ven. per centum per annum.
:ter- 1 ft, That purfaant to an Ad of Congress palled on the I
aßth day of April, 1796, intitledan a 3. in addition to an
j (ft, intituled " An ai-4 making fuither provision for the
5, support of public cr«dit, and for the redemption of the I
public debt," the fa id debt or stock will be reimlurfed and I
paid in manner following,to wit. " First, by dividends I '
I«to be made o« the lail days of March, June and Septem- I ;
« b'er for the preffnt year, and from the year one thousand [ '
seven hundred and niiuty-feven, to the year one thou- I
ere- " sand eight hundred St eighteen inelufive,at the rate of]
ifqry " one and one, half per centum upon the vntiual capital, j
t en- " Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lift day of 1 M
aired j " Dccemb«r for the present year, and from the I of
ly qf ; " thousand seven hundred ninety-fcven, to the year Q(
both , " one thousand eight hundred aud seventeen inelufive, at j A.
" the rate of three and one half per centayi uyon the ori- I no
; at " ginal capital; and by a dividend to be nu eon the last an
luiky " day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun- no
-ank- " dred and eighteen, of fijm, as will be tlicn ade- 1
Iton ; " qqate, according to the contra.*, for the final rsdettip- of
; at " tion of the said stock,." Jjh
s; at id. All diftindion between payments on account of vc
Fort latere,l ar.d Principal being thus abolirfied by the eftabiilh- lab
Fort ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abova de- j
laffac scribed, it has become neccflary to vary accordingly the I
river powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public j
creditors will therefore observe that the following form!
3 not is eitabliihed for all powers of attorney which may be J
e fUr- granted after the due promulgation oi this notice, viz. I T
at the KKQW ALL MSN Br THESE PRESENTS, that 11
'd on / of I W
do make, confitutt apd appoint
ke sol- of my iritf aifd laivful At- J
terney,for me, aid in my name, to receive tie dixidendi -ul #A are. Si
or fall be payable acmrd'nig to laio, on the (her* defending the I
CCS qf stock) funding in my namcin tie booh of (here defcribinguhe |
books of the Treasury or the Commiffioncr of Loans, r
where the stock is credited) from (here insert the com- I
mencement and expiration of time for which the; gower of j
■ations attorney is to continae) liitb power also an aftorne/ or after- I
niej under him, for that purpoft to m ale andfubfitute, and to do all 1
lawful ails retptfitefor rfiSing thepremifa, bercby ratifying and 1 J
as that conjirm uj all thai my said Attorney or h fubJiituU Uicful- 1
ficient ly Jo i by 'virtue hereof. I
c, De- Zft pff tintfs- berenj\ I have hereunto frt my Hand and Seel the j p
tltha in day of in the veur I (
irm of Sealed ar.d Delivered 1°
lefome in prefencc t of% 1
be un- BE IT KNOWN,that on the dsyof L
ice and efore ipeperfonally capie I j
ft, and nithin named and acknowledged tic alovi latter, cf attorney to te 1
?my, or tis aft and dud. I .
be paid In tejlimony thereof I have l ereuntofei vty Hnnitnd affix- [
red, on ed Seal tlx </jy andyear Imfi afatyaid.
)le cha- Given und»r my Hand at Philadelphia, this twen- I
ccr > tieth day of July 1796, pursuant to dircAions I
from thi Secretary of the Treasury
ied SAiWULL MEREDITH, j
Ireafurer of the United States.
fury. J.ly V Wet 13.
Imported in the late arrivals,
jind to be Sold by
JACOB PARKE, «
No. 49, North fide of Hifh-ilrpet, Philadelphia, »» «o
A GS.NFH.4L ASSOkTMtUT OF
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c.
AMONGST WHICH ARE
SMITHS' Anvils, Vices, and Files; Raw-mill, CroU
cut, Hand, and .flier Saws; Carpenters Planes, Chisels,
and other Tools; Carving Clufels and Gouges; Locks,
Hintres, Bolts and Latches; Nails, Sprigs, racks, and
Screws; Frying-Pans 1 Smoothing-irons; Shovels and
Tongs; Coffee Mills; Candkiticks; Snuffers; Warming -
- Pant; Table Knives and Forks; Riding Whips; bar
d low Pen, and other Pocket Knives; Razors ; Saltan;
Needles; Ivory and Hora Combs; bed Kirby Filn fcl j
Hooks; brass Cabinet Furniture; Waggon Boxes; Sheet Sch
- Brass; plated ar.d tin'd Bridle Bits and Stirrups; ditto Bu
Saddle Nails; Girth and Straining Webbswith molt ,
kinds of Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sidlcry, Brass Wares, ,
:n &c. &c.
tt Odeber Z 4 . mwf6w 1
— — ~ 2C
>° Robert Smith & Co. 3?
£ No* 58, S'outh Front-Jlrcet, if \
o Hwe received by the late arrivals fr»m London, f'* ver " 3 0c
io pool, and HbII, and by the Oh» arrived at N. n'ork i
to from Gtafgow,
30 A large & general assortment or Goods,
30 Suitable for (he Seafen, confijling flf O,4Si
30 Duffle, Point and Rose Checks, in iniall package*
~ Blankets Qmjburgs and Brown hol
-5° White, Red, and Yellow lauds
Flannel Brown and white liuflia
Bocking and other Baizes Sheetings
5° Second and cparfe Cloths Drillings and Diapers A 1
u- Pljintwid mixed Caffimeres and Chintzes Sn»(h
lt " Plain, twilled, and ftfiped Jaconet and Book Muslins tickei
he Coatings I Do. do. Tamboured D rj "
; m Plains, Kcrleys, and Half- Do. do. Handkerchiefs °
cd thicks Printed lifien ?nd check d». J
Ets White Jc spotted Swanikins Rornal and Madrafs do. J u f e .
Lainet and fwanfdown Vest Muilin aad Chuits Shawls fan
shapes Bed Ticks
tes Cafpets and Carpeting Table Cloths
Calimancocs and Durants Laces and Edgings
Moreens and Taboreens Fashionable Ribbons
Joans Spinning'and Crapes Do. Hats and Bonnets 1
Camblets and Wildbores Gotten & Worsted Holiery r ® v
Bombazeens & Bombazets Gloves and Mitts
rs - Rattinets and Shalloons White £c coloured Threads are r
Plain, Genoa and printed Italian Sewing Silks tcr ' n
_ Vclverets Jc Thicksets Ivory and Horn Combs , [
7-8, 4-4, and 11-8 Cotton Tapes, Bindings, Pins, £te. , ,
They have on hand a large assortment of India Muslins V
and Calicoes, black and coloured Ferfians, Bandgmio and
_ v Pullicat Handkerchiefs, ike. and a quantity of Nutmegs __
, and Mace. Y'Y
0 .Sober 17. imvft'm
-r— "TlWll tV ''°-
rf Madeira Wine. *
01- tomi
o> 30 Pipes of the very best quality, and fit for immediate
led use, imported in the fcheoaei J .ney from Madeira,
aad for fa'e by
ety John Craig,
I^S » No. J2, Dock-street.
Who has for Sale,
Teneriffe Wine, in pipes, hogsheads, and qr. calks.
Wr Window Glass.
!"• Segars, &c. &c,
1011 Two trunks of the best Cotton and Silk
b« Hosiery.
>at October 4. mwftf
had F O R SALE.
PORT WINK, and
a L HOLLAND GIN, of the firft qualities in Pipes. i
;her FRAUNCES and VAN REED. quii
Brokers and Commilfion Merchants, No. 63,30.3d St. the
a Who discount approved NOTES of hand. 'I
jat N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted. dels
K es September 14. mvvf npti
?re- — s
li& - To be disposed of,
I ra
T>HE time of a healthy NEGRQ WOMAN, wU the
1 has between f»ur and five years to servo: She
can be recommended fnr her ftrtjriety and honesty. For
J particulars enquire at No. 131, Chefnut-ftreet.
or j 3. vScttf
i|ms ' '
"/* Wanted to Rent,
t l ie I y) cotfceriieat., -well furnifhed lied Chamber,
oan I With fire place, in an airy ami healthy part of
t j ia the city.. I'he person wha vants to rest such a chamber,
th * 1 wou '4 ave n® objection to board., or breakfaft only, with
j the family oacupying the house, as may be most agreeable.
™ rt d 9 |Appl y to the printer; T"
■e,-,,. ag. taw X
I -5° ars Reward. th< j
e of Lo/i, a red Morocco Pocket-Book, ' he
>ital. j BH r\V££N tlie Center Houic and the White Horse In
y of j Markct-ftreet; containing two io dollar banknotes, one
; "one los 50 dollars, and one branch-b«nJi-note of one dollar i p
year Weed's note of hand for 250 dollars, eiidorfed 101
Ei at IA. Joseph ; a note of Jackson for 100 dollars; a cx ?
: ox\- I note of Mr. Carr for 100 dollars; a note soy 75 dollars,
£ lalfc and one of Mr. Drate for 65 dollars—ajid several other
hun- J notes, belonging to the fubferiter.
ade- j The Public are refpecSlfully desired not to receive any c
ciiip- of those notes, a? they caji be of no use to any person but ,
1 t,ho owncx, payment being (topped, Whoever will deli-
at of ve: the fume at the of this Gazette ftiall receivc the ' c
3lifh- above AARON JOSEPH.
1 de» I OAober 12. *3
tormj FOT Sale j
ybe J A Complete Font of Brevier,
" z - j TTNtirely nev , and yet unopened. The weight of this f
, that [ JL. font is about 31 a lb. It is from the Foundery of V
Wilson & Sons,Olafgow, and will be fold at cost St charges. T-
Alio for 9ale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes. ne
I At- Enquire at tlie Office of this Gazette of tf\p United 41
ri err, I States, 119 Ctefnut-ftreet. la!
15 the September 17. dtf or
igtfhe j : —-— ■ or
,oan», F O R S A L E. oi
A PLANTATION, I
daalll A DOl'T 11 niilt6 from this City, lituate in Aliii.p- u]
~ an j | ton Township, Mpntgonwry-County ; containing 0 ]
ilcful- | atTt '« a house, two ftonoa high, 2 rooms 011 | v ,
j £oot, fii« places in each, a ft.me kitchen and Hone spring
rt*l the I llou ' c ' ovcr excellent fpripg of water, a barn, flables, e)
I (beds, barracks, See. A large apple orchard, and a variety of
| other fruit, about 12 acres of good mcad6w well watered,
I and wood fufheient for fire, and fencing the place. PotfclS- w
I oil may be had the Ift of AptU next. Properly in this city
j will be taken inexebangr, or MORRIS andi NICHOLSONS "
I Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Street.
ty to it I Philadelphia, September 13, 179&. ttftf
'[ ° i "*' j Boarding and Lodging ■
) twen- I t
eflions I TVTO GENTLEMEN may be accorr.rr.oda'ed with
j Boarding and Lodging, in a private family and pleafact
part of the city. Apply tc the Printer of the Gazette oj
Met. j the United States,
IJ. 1 OSobcr ui tfScitf
Hniwerfity of Pennsylvania,
OBober 5, 1796.
The Medical Lectures will commence the firft Monday
in November. tawjw
Py Authority.
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery.
\ Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
South Second'-Jtreif.
• SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For railing Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an A€t Of
the of Pennfylvauia, passed the Ui'i
feflion, tor building a Stone Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, in the County of
? Berks. Dollars,
1 1 Priae of so.ooo Dollars - 20,00 c
'» 1 do. of |O,OOQ do. • - !0,C03
3 do. ef 5,000 do. - - *5,000
4 do. of 2,000 do. • - 8,000
20 do. Of 1,000 do. - 20,00(9
39 do. of 500 do. • • 19.500
80 do. of 200 do. - - 16,000
epo do. pf i©o do. • ?o ; oco
300 do. of $o do. - *$>000
k 1 do. of 500 do. to be paid the poflef-)
for ©f the firft drawn no.}
5 do. of 3,0c0 do. to be paid polk (Tors >
? of the {jve iad drawn nos > 1 5> oco
do. of 15 do. ; - 141,000
Prizes 300,001*
* 10,046 Hjanks —-
a
30,000 Tickets at Ten Dollars 300,000
All Priates (hall be paid fifteen days after the drawing is
ftriifaed, upon the demand of a podefior of a fortunate
is ticket, fubjtft to a dedudion of twenty per cent. Thtf
©rawing will commence as soon as the Tickets are difpofec£
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public notice will be given*
». Philip Miller, Peter K'rjhher, tVil&am Witman,
Joseph Hitjltr, James Diemer, Thomas Dundas,
s James May, John Otto, John Keim, Daniel Craejf %
Sebajlian Miller, Commissioners.
Reading, May the 9th, 1795.
Tickets ill th« Canal Lattery, No. 2, to be had at th» (
v above officii where the earlitft information of the draw
ing of the VVufhington No. 2, and Patterfipn Lottery's,
j, are received, ar.d check bosks for examination and regis
tering are kept.
Oflobpr 7. law tf
is Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
ld N°. I.
s ' tT rHEREAS the State of Maryland ha« anthorifei
VV the underwritten, tp raise twenty-fix thoufar.d,
twohundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, froxi th Po;
tomacto theEaftern Branch H?ruour.
te The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
a > Viz -I Prize of 10,000 dollars, 50,060
1 ditto 10,000 • »0,003
6 ditto 1,000 6,00®
jo ditto 400 4,000
40 ditto 100 a,OOO
55 ditto. jo liTJO
375° ditto la 69,008
To be raised fpr tht Can*!, 16,1.50
5850 Prizes,
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17*00 Tickets, »t Ten Dollars, - 175,000
$5" The Commiflioners have taken the Securitia* re
, quired by the afoitfaid ad for the pun&ual payment of
St. the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commeneb, without
delay, as soon as tfc# Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
— Such prize* as are npt demanded in ft* months after th»
drawing is finifhed, ft)all be confidtrcd as reliriquiflitd sos
tht benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
>he (SignedJ NOTLBY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS PE3LOIS,
GEORGE WALKER, 1
- wm. M.duncanson,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
o j City of Wafhigy.on, Feb. 11. §
Lottery and Broker's Office,
ble. No. 64, South Szccun strkst.
TICKETS in the Can»l Lottery, No. 2, far sale—a
Check Book for examination —and pri»es paid in
the late lottery.
Check Books kept for examination and regifterine, far
the City of Washington, No. 1, and Pattefon Lotteries,
.« n both of which are now drawing—information where
' f tickets we to be had, and unchanged for undraw a
1 ' ftekrt*."- A ofsH the{?rhp?s inthf late Newr
* ? Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
' 3 The fubftriber folieits the application of the public
and h>3 friends, who wish to pur chafe or fell Bank S-nch,
1 " Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Hoifci, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
%* Also Tickcts in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
~. lale at Ten Dollars each, which will be drawn early in
the Spring.
i. " Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia, Aufufl 18. i7Qt)» rnth
F 0 H SAL £>
A very Valuable Ettate,
this #**1 ALLEi) TWITTENHA M, fitnate in the
V of VJ township of Upper Derby, andconntyof Delaware,
rges. T- 1-1 miles from Phiiad -fyhia, and half a mile from tht
new Wefltrnroad: containing 130 acres of excellent land,
litcd 45 of whichare good watered mosdow, 90 of prime wooJ»
land, and the rell arable of ths firft quality. There are
on the premife6 a good two story brick hoitfe, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with t punip-wefl
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, ftabk%
and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and flon*,
fprinj»-houfe ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
cs. The fields are all in clover, except those immediately
n, /K." under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the* advantage
"'"g of water in each of them, which renders it peculiarly cob*
0,1 i venitnt for gracing.
P rUi S The htnation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high
>ble«, eiiltlvation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
el V° l vicinity to the city, it is very l'uitable for a gentleman's
tfciii' co,,ntryfSßt
i citv The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harm***
lOms deceased, and offered tor sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Oil. g. ttScl Surviving Executor.
PRINTED BY JOHN FE N NO,
with
eafant No. HQ
:tte ot
CHESNWT-STREET.
;Pricc Eight Dollars per f.nimm/j