jfc** i < '** r o^%
of the & Pb llacktphia Daily Advertiser ./
?■ ■ " -A TUESDAY EVENING, JUL'2 ' ig,
20 ±i rr. M •_ i' Corr, .MI»1 Plrlmrrlft : By a* ArtiA r*f.<fcM at Mr. , t !W,-
For Sale or Charter,
n*. *$r>, the snow X
J for .
'U BOSTON, iptei
nam
aUvnit 2000 Bbls. of flour—fhe may . cn
cx ? ,nce, her Ms and rigging being m on ;
very good order—apply to Ma
Campbell, or
George Latimer- p
April. Jt). t—
ilszL, or Sale, p
I ' (On a liberal credit) I
.AJkI The fail failing copper-bottomed B.
St Amiable Matilda,
piy ■? §
July 7- — ■
;n.w Hebr.
FOR SALE,
"^ e nrw W£ B
4 f,ith ul Philadelphia built veflel, car
ries 7 'cMb'iniols of grain or i'joo barrels flour, » rea
dytcU, i:n cargo
P ' Who for sale,
Sucar, Coffee, Cocoa, and Pimento.
b Also,
J Parol of CHOICE PORT W/NE. TI
- . * CO
June 6 , — —
For Sale, —7 p.
she Schooner 1
ISI • "i- A R K,
MP[2oNK bwidwd and twenty ton. burthen. A
yr vessel; well found, and fails extremely
ftfi Twfwell built. For terms apply to the matter on
Si-j .rTo JOSEPH ANTHONY =>«d CO.
IF the vessel is not fold by S.tunky, she will
take freight on very low terms lor Bolton.
f T*iy » —— ——
CABLES,
3*fom 16 to 9 £ inchr* £° r
Jeremiah Warder,
No i a north Third-llreet. \
J"V" — t '-
L/)ttery 1 h !
FIR railing fix thousand 'fix hundred and sixty-seven w
dollar- and fifty cents, by £ dedutSion of fifteen per ev
cent f rom the prisos, and not two blanks to a prize, viz. w
I Prize of s°°° dollar* " dollars 5000 ti<
J 1000 I COS
I JOB S°°
100 toco £
30 tOO *°°°
go JO <95°
Zl 2 J 50O&
aooo «o 10,000
■±Z£ £ Last drawn numbers ®1 iooo dollars each, jooo
133» Prizes. 44,4.50
4018 Blanks.
5350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44.45°
By order of the Directors for eftabiifh- r,
1/15; UfefulManufactures, the fuperintendants of the Pat
er.on Lottery hive requested the Managers to offer th«
foregoing Scheme to the public, and have direited them
to relund the money to those persons who have pu; thafed
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Plank's and Prizes
may be seen at the office ol William Blackburn, N« 84
south Second street, who will give information -.vhcre tick
ets may be procured.
• Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
' J. N- GUMMING, ")
JstCOR R. HAR DENBERC, > Managers.
JONATHAN RiiEA, )
June 18 eo
PROPOSALS.
By J. TURNER <Sl A. BROWN, jun.
For Publilhing bv Sulifcriptien,
LETTERS TO TGUNG WOMEN,
Married and single,
By Mrs. GRIFFITH.
" Beauty in vni j her sparkling eyes may roll :
« charmsftrike the fight—; ut Merit wins the so il." j
CON <"ENTS.—Of religious duties—Fortitude—Char
ity—AHeiHon due to an hufband—Reflgnation, aird trust
in God— The importance of thoie accomplilhments mot .
agreeable to the husband ; and on ret rtmenf, dilTipatioa,
&c.—.Economy—Domestic amusements, music, &c— r
Public I'.ivcrfions, cards, ani drefs—Complaceitcy ; Pa- {
lisnce—Secrets—Servants, &c. The importance of ear {
ly cuitiv.ring the minds of children, and of giving therti ]
the carliril ideas ot truth and benevolence. Their early
i»dl*Sio;i in the kcauties ofnatnre.and in humility,com
palfion, i.iduftry, &c. The propriety of instilling early
ideas of religion in the minds of children. On their rea
-ding.and 011 the use of money to them—The nfe of wri
ting early recommended for children ; thoughts on vari
ous .lutic, they should acquire, as contentment, &c.— j
Thoughts on their negative education, and their turn for r
imitation—On the acquirements of girls in the knowledge
of music, needle-worli, drawing, dancing, &c. Thoughts
on the education of the heart, in preference t# the £:ewy
accompliiiimcnts.
To which will be annexed,
The Vijioti of Female Excellence.
CONDITION 3.
This work to be cotnprifed in two hap.dfome duo
decimo volumes of 250* pages each, neatly bound and | 1
lettered. 1
The price to fubferibers will be One Dollar per vol.
to be paid on delivery.
As soon as ;Oo fublcribers are obtained, the work
will be put to press.
Subscribers' namy to be affixed.
ON the utility of this work the publishers deem it I
unneceflanr to descant. —In the refinement of the fe- i
male mind Mrs. Griffith's Letters have been eminently
fuccefsful; and the general eft-mation in which they
have been held by the Jovers of intelleelual improve- j
nient (the Vie ft criterion of their merit J will, they hope, ]
ensure to their propefals a wel oijie reception from
the "fair daughters of Artftriea."
« Delightful talk ! t« rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea ow to flmot,
To pour the fii*lh iufy'u&ion o'er tile rjnid,
To ircatlie ipirit, si.d to fix
The generous purpose in the glowing breaii."
Stibfcriptions rtceivetl by the publifliers, at the office
of the Minerva, Nj. 324 Msrk:t-iirecer.
July 6 wfJcra
( Take Notice,
THAT the subscriber intends to maice applisa- 1
tion fur tljf renewal of a Cert -sate, No. 1609,
for 4000 dollars, dated the 14th December, IJ9J,bearing .
iptcreft at 51, per cent, from ift January, '79^> t!l '- ,
of David Dunderdale & Co. of i.eeds, in YbiU
{hi. e, merchants. The fame infunpofed to have been .oil
#n its way to New York, undir cover to gi-ecker & (
March, of that ]>Ucc, on the 6tli of January lalt-
Thosnas M'iiueu. i
Philadelplua, a 2 ' J'aiu", 1796. ' j
A small Invoice
PER the fliip Harriet, capt.Thomas W. Norman,from
Hamburgh, confiSing of
Ravens Duck,
Damask and 7 Table Cloths
Diaper 3
Holland Linen
Cambrics, teti.
abso, <
A KIAT ASSORTMENT OP
Gold and silver Watches.
Which will be difpel'ed of together or by the package.
Apply to ,
Isaac Harvey, jun.
Hd. 5 South Water Street.
June 25 §3 W
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo »f the ship Li >nges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
consisting on
A Large and general assortment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMOKO WHICH ARE
A variety fine uukrked and-plain MufUns,
r * J Dorcas, "ts'c. A ll'o,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER.
ill For Sale by
Willings & Francis,
No. 21 P.Min Street.
June 8
Twenty Dollars Reward.
WAS STOLEN, Jrfft evening, from the paftufe of the
fub/lriber, a black Rockingham GELDING, 15
1-2 hands high, has a star, and i'ome white under his
throat, (the part being formerly chafed) jhas a leather on
his neck, the mane on the near fide, his foot-locks fretted
:n with a clog, and is a horse of much bone and size. Who
er ever fecurcs him with the thief, (ball base the above re
ward, or for the Horse-alone a very generous compenfa
-30 tion JOHN LAWRENCE.
ds July 7 eo4w
30 ~ ■*
New Hat and Hofiery-ftoi'e,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,
* By WILLIAM M'DOIJGALL,
* No. 134 I Tar let-fl reft,
Third door from the corrtcr of Vourtr', fsuth fide
Men'# Black \mericaa lad English tiA of various qua
. litics and pricca
Ditto Drabs and Green und<Ts
ditto, black, and a large aflortment of fancy do. •
5° Coloured Be weir, With a great variety of efegant and
h- faftiionable Trimmings
it- Youths H'ack and Drab*coloure<l do.
Children's fancy do
fm H kinds of Silk, Silk & Cotton, Cotton & Thread HOSE
cd Knit, coloured Pantaloons
ets Do. Drawers
Do. Breeches Patterns
■ill Si 1 Gloves
5C3 Knotted coloured do. Co f ton
A quantity of Cotton, sorted colours,
k- r The Hats firufiied in the ncweil fafhion.
June 27. cotm
For sale by the i'ubfcribersj
lhi P£jtN-STR EE-T,
rs * 130 quarter Chests frefh Hyson Tea;
100 ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
30C Boxes Chiift, containing Tmall tea setts of 41
pieces; '
400 pieces Bxudanoes.
Willing 5s 5 Francis.
, January 30 -;taw.
Yazoo Lands.
' May le had at the Editor'j Office 119, Chefnut-Jlrert,
ar i A few Copies of " a Report of the Attorney
J Cenetal to Congress containing a Collection of
Charters, Treaties aud other Documents,
.' relative to and explanatory of the Title to the Laad
Pa- situate in the South Western parts of the United
ar States, And claimed by certain Companies under a
law of the State of Ceorgia, pasTed January 7th,
m-
ea- For Sale,
rr |- A Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
ln " /l street, between Front and Second (kreets, in which
— Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for man} years (and
™ r now do) carried on bufiheis.
% c Poflcilion will be given in one month, or sooner.
hts For termsapfly ts WILLIAM BELL, or
w 7 HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April 21. $
" LET.
A LARGE Commodious dwelling House, No*.i 14
Spruce ilreet, with a convenient stable and Coach
md ' Heufe, —Also for sale a Chariot tut little the we'rfe foi
use. ' June 1. cot t
01 Wm." HOLDERN-KSSii,
3rk No. 76 Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe ant
the East Indies, a well fclcdcd assortment of Silli
nit Mcrcury ; Linen Drapery and Haberdafliery Goods; whicl;
ft- lie will fell, Wholcfale and Retail, 011 the low eft terms j
ltly AMOXGST WHICH AKX,
hty Some fine India muflias embroidered with gold and fflvei
,ve- 6 uperfine Book, Jsuronct* and Mulmul ditto
,p e> j Do do do do Handkerchiafi
ofli Some extra black tafft;tics,luuft rings and colortd Persian
bandano Handkercliiefs
and short Nankeens
Knglifli Mantuas of the.fir/l quality
• Daniuflc table linen napkins, very fine
Silk Hoficry, an elegant aiTortm*nt
Thead and cotton d©
(ficc Urn! rellas—green tilk, ♦il'd do. and do cloth
cet French cambrits, vety fee
' Irish Llatiis, do. &e. &c, Jupe §
4" •
Sam itiel Richardct,
RESPF.CTI 'ULLY iitfoi ifts the Gentlemen
Merchant-s t'lit he has this day opened the CITY \ A
TAVERN and N- : ferICHANTS C<3FI ; EEHOUSE in the. j 1
city qf Phj.'adel-f' ii'- j tut '
The Siibfcripii. to Room will be furniiW with aU the 1
'dally papers publ fi.ed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos
ton, BJsiwore.ta fher with those of the princip->l com
,«tiei'cial.<iti«» of 4 lur.ipe—They will be regularly filed ' r 9
and none p-rnv; tC Ho W taken'away 011 any aee mut. 1
Ton, CorfeeVScu, Mies, Ice Creams, and a variety
!of Frcnch.Liquors; together with the usual lefrJhzisut.', '
will at all time Ibe p. »c«red at she bar. ,
Gentlemen nriy c epend on being accommodated With
; the choicest of Win S, Spirituous Liquors, and the mo ft
approved Malt Litfe frwicLoadon and other breweries. "V
" 'she Larder will I t supplied with the prime and car lie ft y
production* of tho !j afon. ( f.vc
Large and small 1 'r.rties, or single Gentlemen, may be a C
accommodated with 1 Ueakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at ton
hours mo ft conv.nient themfelves—n cold Collation is
regularly k«pt for cor. veniency, th« Bill of Fare to be had
at tho bar.
The Lodging Roor r> will be completely furniaied, and.
the utmost attention ) >aid to cleanliness, and ;very otiior
require.
£5" Richa (IDET will be happy to receive, and
execute the command ' of his Friends, ind the Public at
liifA!s and with ';ratit ide for their favours, he pledges
himfelt that nothing ot. his part fhalibe wanting to prev,
fervc that patronage v. iti 1 whicli be has been so diilinguiih-
ingly .ionored.
"Philadelphia, April rp §
City cf Waihington.
SCHEME oft be L OTTER Y, No. 11,
FOB THE IMPRt. VtmUT OF THE ( , u
FEDERAL CITY. <i.
A magnificent ) »0,000 dc liars, & ) , D oco
dwefUug-lieuie, > calh 30.00 c S are > n0
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 15,600 40,000
1 ditto 15,000 & cash 1 5,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & calh J 0,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 5c cash 3", 000 10,000 f
1 ditto 5., 000 & cash 5 fOOO 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
a do. 5,000 each, are, • 10,000
ro do. 1,000 » - 10,000
%o do. 500 - * io,ooo
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
do. 50 10,000
400 do. 25 * 1 *,009
iiooo do. 40 - 20,009
15,000 do. io • * )*5a»ooo
16,739 Prices.
3.3,a6i Blank*.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 40,00 c V .
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantify of c °
Ticket., tlic priae of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one : j" 1
And approved notes, securing payment in either money lal
or prizes, in xeu days alter drawing, wiH be received for
any number not less than 30 tickets. . dc
This Lottery wiliafford an elegant specimen of thepri
■vate to be creeled in the City oi Waihington— a '
Two i) aiiriful'defiijns aio already for the entire "v
frotits an two of the jiUhlie l'quares; from these prawings ' Wl
itispropofeci to erect two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon a', poflible after'this'lottery is fold, and to convey *-<
1 tht_m, when complete, io the fortunate adventurers, in bl
the manner described in the fchemc for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett cledi<£lion of five per ccnt. will be made to defray ls
t!te necessary expense. of printing, iScc. and the furplu? J'"
■ will l.e,made a part of the fund intended for the National
Univerlity, to be erected v/ithi» tlit city of Waihington. <"
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—Hie money prizes will be payable in thirty days >!
after it is finilhsd ; nqd any pr zes for which fortunate j>a
numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the h<
drawing isclofed, are to be conlidered as given towards th
the funS for the Uhiverfity ; it being determined to fettle in
. the whole business in a year from the ending of the draw- g 1
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
The real feeurities given for the payment of the Prises, nl
are held by the President and two DircSors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mount ol the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commillioners aflifled in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous taflc
a ftcond time on befcalf of the public ; a fufficient num- r*
ber of these having/kindly accepted, it is hoped that the d
friends to a National University and the other federal ob- B
je&s may continue to the design.
By accounts received from the dilterent parts of tlie
ContinciH as well as from Europe, where the tickets
* have been sent for sale, the public ate aifured that the
drawing will speedily commence, and that the Care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a faf« difpoial of
y th« tickets, has rendered the ihor* filfpenfion indispensable. ,
I SAMUEL BLODGET. T
£ Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of ei
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boston ; P
a of John Hopkins, Richmond-; and of Richard W«l!s f *
• Cooper's Ferry. . ti
Loft, J;
|t /""vN Thursday 30th June, on the road from Philadelphia
V_J to the Falls of Schu> ikill, and about the fifth mile,
j brown and white mottled POINTER DOG, anfwersto p
the name of Don, had on roan.l his neck a collar enersv- ti
ed Waller Phillips, Philadelphia. Whoever will being c
him to Mr.Kid, No. 19s Market-flreet, will receive a re- e
ward of teu dollars.
N. B. The owner fufpe&s that the Dog is tied up, alfe !
- he would haye returned. The above reward will bs giv* ' 11
tn to any per son giving that information if true.
■h Chien d'Arret perdu. i
>r TEUDI le 30th Juin on » perdu fur la route de Phi'.adel- '
J phii: aux Chutes de la'Schuylkill, 2 cinq milles de la
~ ville, tn Chien d'Arre't marqud de taches blanches et '
brunes, irrepoude au Jioni dii DON et poMe un collier fur '
icqqelfont Iqj- mots Waller' Phillips,
j menera ce chita chea Monsieur Kid, rue du
j r Marche, aura dix Ourde. de reeompenfe.
11 y a lieu de foupcoaner qtie le chien eft tenu attache
' quelque part ;,»utrcment il feroit deja revenue de luimJme.
On donnera la dice reeompenfe a eelui qui peut indiquer lo ,
lieu ou ce chien Ce trouvc maintenant.
5r July 16 . *3t
— : : . * " I
JUST AIIRWED,
Ijs Hoglheads of Choice • '
St. CROIX SUGARS.
Also,
A quantity of Rum.
[For Sil« hy
)ames Yard.
j Jul>v 1, i
By an Artifl rcfidem at Mr. Others'* t- ,
MTKIAT U R vt L I K, :vN.F, S S> S
A RE ta&efi in that clef^r
• / - ftile,whrch To neceJtVy to render a Pi:-
! ture an in: erVfting jewel.
He wi-ll warrant a itra-ivr 4fi.lrtyntaV.c rc r . -
Mauce; and he t/.ko ."cfee liberty la l.iy h> ,- G ,r the
of .tiiis pUcv- ius m'ift <*Hrnf!c inter« icvn to deilrvc their t>u
' rror;tvc L| Lfs. 1-1:1 cn<teavors r o nlctife.
N. U. jefe to belc-^-v
a\Tay 12. -
; t ————•■■.. i. y
Waihmgton-Ca&al Lottery,
N°, T.
"VI rMEREAS the State of Jy* .rV-luivl has authorffad
VV the underw'ritteti, to raise twenty-fix thou'fand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for ;>'ir]>o[a of cutting
a Gaasl throagh tli City tf Wa&mgton, freai the l'«; V**
toaiacuctheErifler.-i &nt-ncH Harnoyr. «■' <
The following is .he SCHEME of No. 1.
Viz -I f'rize of So.ooo do-liars, so.coo
I ditto ' i 10.000
1 lad drawn > .
Tickcts, each ? -<>°°° 3SPO*
6 ditto J,006 6,00>3
JO ditto 400 4,C00
IO ditto ICO 4,000
J J ditto 30 2,750
5750 ditto I» '69,003
To be Tailed for -tha Canal, 16,150
3850 PrizSs, 173,000
1V650 Blanks, aot two to a'priio.
17300 pickets, atTen Dollars,
t? The Comnj.Tiot: » - have tikon the Securities re
quired by the aforefsid a$ for the panSaal payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of this will-commence,-without
delay, as foo,n as tks Tioltets -arc Said, as which timely
, notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded li: fix months after the
drawing is finilhed,ftallbe considered S&relinquilhed loi
the benefit of the "Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
' (Signrdj NOTLEY YOUfCG,
Daniel p/o.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALI^ER,
WM. M. DtfNCANSON, •
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
C«y of Wtlhington, Feb. h. $
For Sale,
A LARGE ELF.GAWT AXD WZLt rs.VISJIEO
Threc-ftoiy Brick House,
(The late residence of General Wafcjp Stdwart)
WITH a LOT of GROUNf) therein.to belonging,®#
the weft fide «f Third-ltrtct, ftcar Union-street
f containing in front 32 feet, and in depth 100 feet, to an
, alley leading into Union-ftrcet. The houf? is 32 feetfrost
and 50 feet deep; the several rooms contained in it are
large, commodious, and completely smithed; the two &ft
. Hories are each 13 feet hfgh.i there arc 20 mahogany
doors in the house ; a geometrical staircase, with mahoga->
'"uy rails and The kitchen it in the cell
a,', which is spacious and convenient, and finilhed with art
■ovito, llew-holcs aud pantries, a.fervints' ball and large
■wuicieeHar adjoining the kitchen, in ffont of wliicli is an
area iV which there is a pump. The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a heat threc-flory
, britk hojlf, on the north fide of Union-ftrcet, contain*
iug 30 seer front hf 10 feet deep; the lower part us which
, is at present occupied as a comptiiig-houfe, and the upper
, part divided ii\fo well-finilhed large chambers. This house
j may at a small txpenfe be converted into a convenient
dwelling : The ftrect door is very handsome, and the front
, and back have Venetian window-fhujters. Adjoining the
5 lad house, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are creeled
. bathing-rooms, &c. There are like-wise very good <oacli* '
. house and flablea finilhed equal (or nearly lb) with any in
s the city, on a lot containing on Union ftrect 30 feet, and
. in deptlion the waft fide of said alley 32 feet. There are
. good cclhrs under the whole of the buildings, and a wine
room over part of the liable, with a hay-loft over the re
, mainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDVVARO BONS .LL & Co.
, At their Office No. 64 DocJi-ftreet. between Walnut & Peat
to ftrccts.
j 6lh month 24th, 1796.
\ Nmv Publ'tfhing by Ihe Printer,
, Nl». 149, Chelnut-Street, and No. 3, Lsetitia Court,
e delivering to Subscribers, anil to be had at the different
- Book-S;ores in this City,
The Fir/! Number of
Berriman & Co's
e CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
d f The HOLY BIBLE.
t Containing the Old and Naw
Tcßaments and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes and re»
,f erences. An Index ;or an account of the mod remarkable
. pailages in the old and new Teftamcnt, pointing to the place*
* wherein they happened, and to the places as fcriptuw where.
' in they are recorded.—A Table of Time.—-Tables of ferip
turemMfures, weights and coins: with an appendix, contain*.
> ing the method of calculating its measurss of suaFACae
hitherto wanting in Treatifcs »* this fubjtS. A Table of Of us
and Conditions of men.
ia CONDITIONS
e, i. The fizeof this Edition will be 1 LARGE FOLIO»
0 printed «n a beautiful new type, ?nd good paper, made pat
r- ticularly for it, It will be published in Numbers, notto ex
„ cce d 30, one of which will be delivered weekly to fubferib
.. CPS, at a quarter of a dollar. Those fubl'cribers who prefer
receiving the work complete, will be attended to by fignifying
• e the fame on any of the fubferiptioo papers in the Bookllorc*
„ lin this city.
2. There will be an advance in the price, on Wbfcnbinj
1 after the firft of August next.
J In the courfeof the Work will be given an elegant
Frontispiece—From ail Engraving of the celebrated artilfr,
). Gricnion.
l a Berkiman tc Co. ({rateWlyacknowledge the very liberal
encouragement they have met with; and haverejfonto believe
jr that the execution of their edition will anl'wer every cxpec
tjtion, and Jpeat its own ftdifc.
, May »6 3VOWW.
FOR SALE.
\ FOUNT of BREVIER, half Worn ; about four hun
e - A dred weight. Enquire at the Office of the Gazette
of the United States, No. 119 Chefnut-llreet. §
Just Arrived,
~ la the Enow Boston, James lCirkpatridt, master from Lip
verpool,
3000 Bnihels SALT ;
100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; and
An Assortment of SHIP CHANDLERY;
'for. S A L I
On beard, at Piae-llreet wharf. Apply to
yarns Campbell, or
I Gftrge Latimtr.
April 29. 5BRITISH PARLIAMENT. «:
Houss of Lords, Monday, May 2.- ha
STATE OF THE NATIOX. cil
Lord Grfnfilie in ecnlinunlion. tn
As to the next point, the pay of the army, the he
noble marquis was "certainly wrong, when he con- vi
tended that nothing had been done on this head as pt
proposed by the commifiioner6 of accounts, for that m
"both Mr. Burke and Col. Barre, to whose abilities te
he paidjihe warmed eulogiums, had brought in
bills w&ich'had paSed for the better regulation of ft'
that .particular department He defended the nexf- b
point, as to the loans, very ably ; and said that they tl
'.vfre made at present in a more open manner, and tl
by a p'.lblic mode of competition, far superior to
jvhflt they ha 4 ever The unfunded u
*!<bt ? Hp also maintained, was equally benefited by tl
the present mode of conducing it ; for formerly rc
I? wis iiFual to leave it floating, as well as the navy ir
'bill?, to a confiderableamount; whereas it was now C
regularly funded at Hated periods, and even the ex- tr
pence taken in that was forrfeen to aecrue within w
the remainder ol the year. His Lordship then ad- si
verted to the office of third Secretary of (late, which a
he aflerted was, in time of war, efTentially jnecefia- w
ry. From thence he proceeded to the barracks, h
which he said were inveighed againd without due
confederation. Much bad bfen said about them
which they did not deserve—as to the measure be
-4 ing unprecedented ; how did the matter really (land ;
There were so many new, and so many old barracks
—the .old ones were built to contain 20,00.0 men, o
and many of tlurir situations were not healthy, and n
otberwife inconvenient—the new ones were there- o
fore fubdituted for the old, and contained only ft
15,000; so that it appeared elcarly tlw« was no d
new measure. Much had been said of-i'e bein£ 1111- b
conditional ; but it could not having been e
•in ule folong. His Lordfil'ip then defended the
army extraordinaries from the arguments whicV the t
noble marquis'had brought against them, by PneW ii
ing, that is was impofjlble to form any edimate of n
the ex.pence of a campaign, without being obliged i;
io recur to ; and dated, an ar
my being abroad,was not sent thither todarve, n
but muf. bave prorifions and ammunition feut witlr j:
"• ouppofs these to be or lort, with or b
Without blame, they mull be made good, and in all e
"such cases, which were not unfrequent in all wars, d
they mult be added to the original eflimates as ex
traordinaries. He then adverted to the tranfpott r
boa id and said, that nothing could be more necefTa- 1
1 ry than it was, and, if h# wanted a witness to prove I
th!B,he would not desire a better than the noble mar- r
qus who has (hewn thaf, during the American war, <
for want of such a boat d,the affairs of the'country had t
like to have fuffered in the mod eflential degree for t
want'of traofports. This was not a new board, but <
a revived one. In the courfeof mentioning this as ]
a branch appertaining to the Naval department of ;
the War, the Noble Marquis had made »fe of an 1
exprtjfion, not particularly propitious. This was an 1
observation which had sdonifhed him, indeed ; for 1
when was there a period in the English Hidory, in (
which thi3 nation had been more .Angularly amTptSV
«uliarly fortunate, even to a degree of -splendour, 1
in iheir naval Et.-hievements and fup&iority over
thsir enemies. Look to the Channel; to tlw Me
diterrgrreaan ; to the End and Wed-Indies'—look
to the accounts of lall week, when so many of the
navy qf the enemy had been broiijrht into our har
bours, and it would be allowed our superiority was ;
never greater, nor the honor and spirit of our
brave tars at ,a higher pitch. His Lordship next
defended the India bill as a measure of infinite wis
dom, calculated to ensure the prosperity of that
country, and to proteA it f»r the benefit of this;
anfl described it as a foarte of wealth and confe- ,
quence which was almod incalculable. With re
' gard to the Police bill, his Lordship thought that
the introduction of it ottthe present occasion, was
certainly premature at lead, and might have been
as well omitted untilit came before their Lordships
for difcuflion, which it was soon likely to do.—
The noble Marquis had obje&ed to it as not being
tlie fame with the Police of th< City of London—
but he had forgot to mention the revenues which
the Corporation of London r pofTefled towards the
support ar.d maintenance of the City Police ; give
the City of Wcdminder an equal revenue, and he
had no doubt but Aldermen enough would easily be
found to fill every Ward intfc which it (hould be di
vided, and to ndrtiiniiler such revenue in a similar
Police. The Noble Lord then conduced an ar
gumentative and spirit cd defe ;ce of the present
Administration of the country, by observing, that
the Noble Marquis, when lie declined going at pre
sent iulo an examination of the finances of the
country, should have alfj dejaye»j giving any opini
on which he might have formed in the general re
sult of his own private examination. He had da
ted that the pifitttre .vas frightful, but had not gi
ven the house an opportunity of viewing the Blon
der : when, howe\er, on a future night he (hjuld
t'hink proper to fhevr that piftureto the House, he
Grenvillfc) woald undertake jo point out its
beauty and proportion ; he would take care that
the exaggerated mifrepreleiitations which hard been
ri«de of our finances, (hould be opposed by dub
born and falemn truths ; he would then clearly
prove to the fati'sfaSiion of their Lordships, that
the bid founded public copfidence could be placed
in our refoufcis, and rtie date of our revenue and
permanent taxes were such as to exhibit to the ene
:t.y how ill-founded they were in that arrogant pre
sumption which was, he believed, in a great mca
ftrtt fcnrlt upon fullaciottsflaterteritsanid i.npreflions.
Lofd Lauderdale spoke in-fupport of the date
;%cnts and arguments of the Noble Marquis, aod
H) opposition to those of Lord Grenville. He ar
raigned the con'duft of admjnidration in the erec
tion of so many bariack6 throughout the kingdom
and, though he* did not wifli to charge the No
l«e Loid with wilful midatement, yet he thought
it iieceflarv to inform the H«ufe, that to the num
ber of 15,000 men, far which he had dated them
10 be ijnilt, le had u> add 9000 more, which
jnight be contained in the barracks intended to be
t uiUd. Tht: e were alfa barracks erected, ar.d to
,l c.'ertiSed in Gucinfcy ar.d Jersey, containing above
• tcco men, making in the whak above 30,000.
V. ,tb refpe£t to the cxtraotdiuaiics anu uiJucucc'
dtbt, and the toad which had been.r j.nle of parti -
cular good cdndact in providing for tiiem before
hand, he allowed tlist the Chaneelh: r of the Ex
chequer had proposed to fund two. t jillions of Ex
traortiinaries, and four millions of nn »y debt, which
he had dated at the probable expert it s in these fer
viees up to'the end of the present ye »r. Cut did any
pe.rlon believe that thcyjiot would Inionnt to much"
more ? He truHed the Noble Lon ) would not at
tempt to date to that House, as tl »c Chancellor of
the Exchequer had done to the Qimmans, that
such would be the probable amount : of the ferviccs.
He did not believe tljere was any other man but
the perlbn to whom he alluded, t .hat would have
the impndence to make a probabh 1 datcment of ihe
1 navy debt up to the 3rd of De_*ember 1796, n-
I mounting only to fotir millions, WhcK far the fird
thrse months of the year that debt incurred, a
• mounted already to 2,800,00 c 3. After urging
r many other objeflions to the did (nfk parts of Lord
r Grenvilles' statement, Lord La- jderdale said, that .
men who were attached to the ct .wotry by pioperty,
1 were afraid of contemplating th e true date of their
- iinances. Men did not wtfh to speak out who had 1
1 any property at (take ; this p. jt him in mind of
- what Corneilfc, a celebrated French author, said of
, his patton Cardinal Richlieu.
' " Tout le monde en vral,
1 " Pour moi, je.n'en par!i 1 pas, <
"II m'a fait tiop de biei> , your en parler mal— -1
; " II a fait trop de inal, 1 jour en parler bien."
3 Lord Lauderdale then cnt ered into a panegyric 1
,on the excellence of.our Cbfaditution, which he I
1 maintnir.rd might be upheld !jy good pra£lit;e, tho' <
- objectionable in theory. He condemned the.fy- I
' dem of funding, as earryvig with it famething
3 dcdrtid\ive ; it might proceed to a certain icngtfe, <
but going beyond itsbeu/ds, i: would produce fh
) evitable ruin. <"
2 Lord Kinnoul entered, into a general defence of
; the war, and of the ci; pfequenc(sr<?fuUi»g frojn it,
in which he took occa! jon to defend the prtfeti.t ad
s minidratiitii in the t rediion of barracks, snd the '
1 inditutiou of a transport board. '
Lord Auckland en.ered into a comparative state- '
, meni of the finances, commcrcc, im- '
ri ports, exports and revenue <>f ,</liis country,
r between the years t-83 and,1796, by he j 1
1 clearly fhevved tha.t its lituution was improvesk»nfi- (
, derably. if 1
Lord Moira 'ftifhed that the quedion of the si- '
t nances liad beei j entered into. He hoped, hoover,
- that it would brought forward as soon aj poffi. '
i ble, Snd bef.ire.many' noble Londs were induced to
- r"etire from town, possibly on ele£fioneeting views or 2
, on motives of pleasure and business. He was one of> '
J those in ftappy elder brothers, who looking forward '
r to gri;;4 pofljflions, threw away their horn books
t and t'/eir multiplication tables as umieceffary.— '
s But Adl he had paid to the finance of this country 1
'f a particular attention, and he would tJndcrtake to
n fh Av that the datements of the noble Lord; who 1
n fioke lad was erroneous, when the eircumllances of I
J ihe different time's were taken into confideratidn,
n Lord Spencer defended the propriety of iiiftitHt- '
ing a tra.nfport board ; and vindicated the condnci '
r,, cf that board in fitting out the WeftTiidia expedi- 1
r tion. '
:- Lords Lauderdale and Spenccr explained,
k Lord defended the eonduft of
ie Adminidtation, and delivered his femiments in fa
r- vour of the finances of the nation, and the juftige
is and necefiity of the War.
ir The Lord Chancellor entered into a drift and '
tt minute examination of the Refolutidn proposed by
f- the Noble Marquis, which he dideclcd andcriticifed
it with accuracy and judgment. He infided that to
; agree to the motion would be to satirize the con
e- dinfl of that House in all its decisions (ince the be
ginning of the war ; and that such a resolution was
it unjud, and in many refpedls falfe irt its allegations,
as He ridiculed the idea expressed in the resolution, of
:n trade being now upheld by that which was funda
?s mentally injurious to it ; and could never agree that
- the Parliament had forfeited any portion of the pub
g lie confidence.
- Lord Lauderdale repeatedly cricd, " Hear !
:h Hear
ie The Lord Chancellor observed, that the cry of
ke Hear ! Hear 1 was not decorous ;he spoke to be
ie heard—every man who spoke in a public afiembly
>e spoke to be heard ; but the cry of " Hear, Hear !''
Ii- was merely for the purpole of interfuptidh. Hc
ar was not, likt the Noble Eail, ia the habit of fpe'ak
r- ing in claiaerausa(Ttmb!ies jhe did not look for ap
nt planfe in (liouts and noise.
at Lord Lauderdale, after speaking on the fubjeft
e- in debate, said that it hatl been cudomary in either
34 House of Parliament to cry " Hear, Hear," when
ii- Members afTented to or pa rticularly disapproved of
e- any argument or datement advanced. It was be
a- cause he wiflved to meet the learned Lord on those
;i- points which he urged, that he had cried Hear,
n- Hear, and not with any view to interruption : but
Id jvhen that learned Loid thought proper to infinu
le ate that he had not like lutn been accuflomed to a
ts clamorous audience, he fuppoled he had forgot the
at whole hiiiory of his furm.-r ljfe ;he had fafgot that
:n he liad been more accudiimed to clamour and noise
b- thanhe (Lord La'uderdale) could havi; been. Had.
!y he so soon forgbt his former clamours in V#i}t
at tliire ? He certainly had. Or, Slaving deviated as
;d he liad'done, from the draight path of life, be
id would have recolle&ed the winding paths which
e- he had followed, and not have made an unjuit
e- charge which would leave him io open to retort,
a- The Lord Chancellor declared that he felt such
i«. a'fepfe of the habits oHii, putt life, that-fiis mind- ■
e- was entirely at ease with refpeft to any iniinuati
>d 011s or charges which might be made by the noble
ir- Lord ; but he thought it more becoming his own
c- feelings, and the duty he owed the house, not to
n: enter into ar.yßeiail or vindication of his former
o- conduct, and to treat such observations with silent
ht negligence.
n- The Marquis of Lanfdown replied at confide
in rabje length. He diflt-red from the Noble Lord
;h (Grenville) in all iu3 datements ; and he hoped the
x house was convinced that he was right. His Lord-'
to (hip mxt combated the objeflions of the Lord
<•<"' Chancellor, and the* dated, that if ill health, or
0. other butbefs did tloc prevent hid!, he would iboa
:i bring forward a prSpoliEoa the finances.
*5. «i; j., ... •(
If lie could not, the ta!]< woii'rd 9sxx\]v& o ' a Nob' e *
• Earl (Lauderdale} v>ho would, (he was convinced)
- execute it with great ability.
.Lord Lauderdale then.' gave rotic - , thus be
i would on Tuesday fc'nnight move certain ri-foiuti
- his refpefting the .1 nances of the Con .tt v, grouit
? dt'd tin the statements on the table. After which,
i a division took place on the Me.'quis of Landf
downe's motion—
f Contents - 9 Non Contents - 73
t Proxies - 3 Proxies t- - - 52
t 13 104
; Majority againlt the Refutation - 92 •
Adjourned at halfpalt 12 o'clock.
For tin Gazbtth of t//s United Stjtzs.
I THERE is ho security for the continuance of J
: a trantpii! enjoyment of the blefiings of freedom,
, but in the general ditfulion of knowledge among
r the people. Government is bed supported where
I the principles are ilnderftood, and apfjroved. A
f free government is perhaps neceflarily com
f plex than an arbitnry one, because tire multiplicity
of rights and privileges requiie a proportional num
ber of laws tpdefine, and protect them. The vo
cabulary of defpoiifm is comprized in one word
- -olcdieuct.
ifce why and the wherefore of the freeman, re.
quire the whole compnfs of language to afford a
; iatisfaftory solution. 'His understanding mull be j
' 'convinced that the law is necefFary and juii, and
. reason diffatea the propriety of obedience,
f 1 hus both coiiipire to protedl and support tlje wovk
, of his owi) hands.
11 W,Hh such, no us schools prevail,
" N»r ol a f fght divine, the nay/eous
* Can give to oijie amai)» thcnifc ves the pow's,
" Without controul his fcHbwi to devp^r^j
Of all the of Inflation in a free govern
ment, thfre is nut one of io great importance as
that of providing competent means for the general
. education of the great niafs of the people ; yet
aftonilhing as it must appear to the reflecting patri
otic mind, none is iefs attended to. The fubjedt
' is copfeiTed by mod persons to be interesting to the
community ; and when it is tirged on the consci
ences of legifbtors ; when a clamour is cxcited,
their attention it occsfiunally routed, and some ef
forts are made to bring biilinefs forward ; but
these efforts being opposed hy<rcal or pretended dif
( bculues, and counteracted by ignorance, ambition
. and avarice, we hare fcen them baffled and prove
r abortive; the business has been laid afidc, to be
1 taken up de novo, at a less favorable junflure. 1
fay' less favorable ; for at a certain book fays, to
. < la J fy» ™UHnnr the voice of jujlice and tfuc policy,
haraen not ysar hearts. Now it the accepted time.
, 0( .<ll procrailinatfon, that of deferring to a
, m °'° favorable season public provifiorufor the sup
s poit of fchooU, is th< least dcfenlible.
Time is loft whicK never can be relieved j "it
. 's than loft, for it will always be found that
tf° ar / rom diminishing prejudices arid obstacles,
. tliey wUI be encreafed; with the necefiary encrcafc
of igaonnte. As this fuhjrft appears to me all
important ; as the circuit fiances of this common
p wealth are, patt all controversy, as favorable to
. undertaking, maturing and perfedh'ng a general
. plan 6f educ.ition for the benefit gf, the riling ge
aeration as any we can reasonably expect, 1 (hall
occasionally offer some desultory remarks relative
, 'to the business, through the ehannjl 0 f the Ga.
j zctte of the United States.
, - E.
Foreign intelligence.
CAftiP.RIDGE (Eng.) March 19.
t A peifon of Rochdale is committed to Lanc'af
- ter Castle, charged wi.h the murder of his father, a
t refpedfable hottfekeeper in that towA- Theprovo- •
. cation the son received for convtjiitting so foul and
unnatural a crime, was the interference of the fa
! lh er between the murderer and his brother, who
were quarrelling with each other, when the son
t ft nick the father so desperate a blow, accompanied
; with threatening words, as inflantly to deprive him
1 of life.
LONDON.
FORGERY.
Old Bailey, Saturday May 14.
Henry Wcfton was indi&ed for forging a certain
deed, purporting to be a power of attorney, and
t executed by Gen. Tonyn, with intent to defraud
r the governor andcompany of the bank of England.
1 A second comcharged the fame offence at "being
f intended to defraud Gen. Tonyn.
The cafe was rather complex : it occupied the
attention oT the court a confiderablc tune, and a'
, variety of evidence was necessarily adduced. The
t following is the outline of the cafe. It appeared
- that Gen. Tonyn was pofTeffed of i 6,0001. Hock
1 the three per. cent confo's ; the prisoner was
e acquainted with the General, and in the habit of
1 doing bufiiiefs for him: in the month of Februa
f'7 it appeared tliat the ptifcner forged a- pon--
3. e» of attorney, as signed, See. by the General in the
- tnontii of January lad (at which time Gen Tonyn
s was at Ipswich) authorizing him to fell the above
e properly in the funds. In the begining of last
1 month, Gen. Tonyn wrfhing to transfer his ptoper
t ty, tookthe necefFary steps for that purpole be
font a.friend to Mr. Welton at the hank, to d'elire
1 him to be prepared to make the transfer on the
f foliowiiig" day fTTiis v/at' the 7th: Mr. Wefton
wilhed to have the matter postponed, as the Bth
e would prove an iuconvenient day for tranfading the
1 business", in eor.fequence of which the Gen. agreed
3 to postpone the aifair, until the following Monday
r when it appeared that the General's property had
t been fold, aifd Mr. Welton had fled.
Mr. Sylvester, who tried the <?aufe, fnmmoned
- up the evidence : the cafe appeared to him to ad
i mit ot very little doabt; but if any remained on
e the minds ot the jury, they were bound to <n' vc the
-- unfortunate gentleman the benefit of themfand of
i the very good charade, which he bore, until ,h c
r unhappy traniaflion inqueftioii.
j Wcfton then, it a genteel manner, a<Jdfef*
fed the court, and <n uawV. ha i he flight "be faf"
fertd to lay a tew .■> n.is. i'c learned judge ha"
ving i.omplicd with his vrq>t<Ml, he proceed : '• I
am rny lord, as niv cc will eahly l!io*.y, a
very young man ; I was much votinger v t ' hc.-! I en
tered into biffiijcls, am{ wad truflsd yvith'affairs rtf
great confequcce. I h'ipethit my unfortunate'
fituatifm rnr.7 prove an cft'.&u-.'l example to youn"
men, to deter tliem from indulging in the fatal vise of
gaming,and will also be a warring to thote of more
advanced years, not to confide the management of
their concerns to (he care of men too young and un
experienced in the world. l iiave been mined by
too much precipitation in myßlf, and by too great
want of attention in thole Who haw had tlm fgper.
intendance of my condu£k.;' The unfortunate
ycung man then bswed, and retired.
LAW REPORT.
COURT rfp kino's bench, may 3.
The King v. Beard, far fending n Challenge
Mr. Justice Afhhurft' pronounced the judgment
o£ the court as follows,
John Beard, you have been tried and found guil
ty on an information that has been filet] agaiuft you
for challenging George Johns to fight a duel, and
for faying/>f him that he was a poltroon and a cow.
aid, with an intent to provoke-him to fight.
Of this charge the jury have found you guilty.
It is certainly a matter very much to be lamented*
that the pratficeof duelling has of ld?e become so
frequent in this kingdom. That practice, howe
ver it may be countenanced by the mode and-falhi.
ou of this country, certainly to cali it by its proper
name (if attended with thnt effed which j s
to be carried into execution) is no better than wiinil
murder. It is contrary to the laws of God Jt ; a
contrary to the laws o'f-«.ian ; and therefore, wiiatc.
ver you may think of it, it is certainly a difgracc
to the civilization of this country. If the aft had
produced the effect you intended and your antago
nilt had fallen, the law would havecandeianed'yflu
as a murderer. Your crime is very much
ted, bee a use it appears this was not the confluence
of sudden heat or paffioii, but that you intended to
take »Vvay the life of your fellow-creature : and for
that purpoffc you were seen praitifing and shooting
at n mark te siake your hand more fui e and certai*
in the aft of wilful murder.
The crime of wVjch you have been found guilt jr
defent# the feveielt xnimadyerfion of the law, and
whether this court majbe fuccelsful in their endea.
vours or not, at all it is fit we ihould pro
nounce such a sentence may convince l the world
vve do not chufe to give csuntenancc to ihis prac
tice. The sentence of this iyiit thertfore is, that
you be itiiprifoned in the jail oi the King's bench
for the space of nine calender months, and at the
end of that impriio&pnent, that you £tve sureties for
youpgood behaviourfor the term of five yens, your
felf in the-fum of £001. and your two sureties in
2501. each, and that you be further imprifoncd till
such sureties (hall be given.
PARIS, Ma v 7.
Seventeen ebe!s belonging to »he vfi \ ,
' has excited confi durable diluirira' . ; o?
deranc4 10 be ftoi, aH !. ve i'urf-rcd ■■
■fhc Tcrrorillv hav.- t-o: V .-.t. r.-i , . :- e
Region of Po !cc. The. . b-f'-if,. l#n •
El fees, th«.ir orstois were imjty n-ir ■' y■ i'lthe ! r<> iti 1 q
Chairs. Th«» nivi.fd' hcjuy fc.iock lown all '10!? vhom
they called Spies; r-T*T~!77~2H tbe 'Tien aho intnrri '/ic *>-
! vernment of the manutuvriS - I ;he -.na
Jht foldicrs'of the Lectin tvji'ed' bv heir ri .fa.ut »c. di.
rectpdtneir irtaicU towards he 1 111' i-rrrs and thcie rravt r -. .
1 <*'levcra! quarters to the number ol Jin. , o<'lo ,rtiund-sd , n
fingmg different-airs,'and mfu!ur>n.ihr o- sC":bic ci irens. Art
rived auhrgardeiibf the ci-devau p JU , : Ro't ?y lur'i, 4
them,elves into grbupi, and fume of : Irrfii moved t . len l a
deputation sf four ioldiento demand the itb.-lvot their com
rades detained for therehelliou «f the Lemon of Police. 1 :>e
proposition was adopted. We a.e .lieMir.ilter of Po
lice has laken the neccllarv ftcpj to p.event Inch (cents 111 lu
tnre : they have always preceded (he mo t serious move
menta. , t
. : ' LONDON.
Admiralty\)fficc, May 14.
Copy of a letter from Vice Admiral Kirtg/milJ, Com
m"nder tn Chief of his- ATaj. fly's Ships «nd Vefftlt
at Cork, h Evan Nepean, Esq. dated May 9.
Pleafc to inform my lords commillioners of the
Admiralty, that another French national cutter,
LeCigne.of 14 guns and Somen, clinker builr,
isjutt brought in here { fte bad b.cn out 9 .lays
flora the Isle of Bas, bvt had not taken anything
when fhewas fell in with and was.captured by hit
Majelly'sfhip Doris, having the Hazard (loop in
company, on the 7th inft. after a chac_ of
S. distant eight leagues.
Tins prize parted from the Dofis off Cape Cl-ar
nt . °" e , P A \ M ' yeftwday, and Hiall be s ent along
with L'Abeille to England. , K
1 he city of Milan, the conqijrfl of which is the
great object of the French, is but weakly fortifi
ed. In former tva, 3 it has been forty ,i meS
and aken twenty-,wo. There % fn tl.e
middle of the town, to keep it in aWe. Behind it
is a covered gallery, supported by brick pillars, on -'
which aie two hftudred pieces of cannon. There
arefevera! ve.y beautiful building,, particula.ly the
cathedral. The city ,s about ten miles in circttm
ference, and 13 abundantly supplied with all kinds
o provisions. Tfce ch»f inhabitants are very rich,
and are defcerided from the mofl ancient houses. It
is situated seventy-two miles N. E. of Turin, and
two hunured and fovenfy N. W. of Rome. The
Duchy, of which i, is the is extremely fer
tile, about one hundred and fifty miles in leu K th,
and feventy-etght in breadth. b
'n ) April 30. . 4
Ihe following address was this day presented to i
his honor the Governor.
We his majelty's dutiful and .loyal fubjea«, the
assembly cf Jamaica, beg leave to offer to your ho
nor our moil l.ncere and cordial congratulationsor, V
the happy and complete termination of therebel
lion ofthe 1 rclawny-Town Maroohf. ;
i his great and important ev«nt mud be produc
tve offubftantMl benehts and faJutary confequencrs ,
to the pouptry, in every point of view in which
it can be contemplated : tranquil;,y an d the en
joymentof our civil right a,e rdtored , public cre
lo the. """ h!ppo '' t ° f and
0 proipentj, if not to thf very exiHence of the .
'-if' ' jjbh\- ■ Iff. - ♦
couot o , Is and our internal feourity 'Hat bel
greatly 'r.cjcafcd a "<i confirmed.
W J ihefe inetl'imable advantages, we look
forward *-ith confidence to the augmentation of the pret ■*
Xe of pt-ipertY, which i* likely to take P W; tw th,,
t'i'A which n, time, we bull. #ill compensate all the * .■ g
losses and expeiidituie of treasure unavoidably incur racy ot
red intheprofec*itionof the war. . '■/}■
Ir is with pectilja*" fatisfatfion an* gratitude wc nt of p
acknowlcdprcthelively imprefiion made on us by the mitiet,
energy displayed bv your Lord(htp in difficult op> .
eration. ofthewar, which affords the most convinc
ing proof that the zeal, ardour, and activity, mat"-
felled in your military conduct, have only been e
quailed by the found policy, and decifivemeaiures,
which marked the wisdom of your councils.
Mis Honor's Ansv/CR. . |
Mr. Speaker, and Gentlemen of the Houfs of As- P* mbe |!
fembly. memor;
Your- adilrefs excites in my bosom every hnta- Bleffi
lion of pleasure the mind of man is capaole ol re- on tbe)
r Ever
<e The pjftme you have drawn of the future prof- X\v<
nerity of the tfland and thole
P After contemplating the unavoidable comities »!gg
«f war, a sentiment arises, grateful anu looking to
a feeling hearth , Ame
Ti,at during your contest with an enemy the wrr id,
moll fe ocious that ever the annals of l ' if " P?W«P
Coliv.
'" That duiing your corifeft with an army of fa- "Wan,
vages, who have i<dik tipiinatelv massacred every {
prisoner whom the for U' vot war had plSced in Evei
their power, no barbmitv, nor a linjde aft of retal COBn j r
iation, has sullied the bright ness of your arms- ditTci*
1 pray that the energy,the vigor and the human- In si
ity, which you have so honorably displayed, may mflav
descend to yam children, and feme to them for
ever t'nofe bfcffings which you have hitherto enjoy- P
■ed, undei the mild and happjy government ot the witho
ißjjftnous House us Hanover. Fraiict
• May t.
Ordered, That the following meflage be sent to fh
his Honor the Lieut. Governor. refpei
May it pleste yonr Honor. _ lengtl
We are ordered by the House to wait on your M
honor, and to requ.ft that you will'be pleased to ding
give orders for the difmiflion of the chasseurs and Baiti
the dogs, the rebellion being now at an end. We mom)
cannot hut take this opportunity oF expretfing our on
ack owledgmentsof the eminent advantages deriv- <>
ed from the importation of the chalfcurs and dogs n ]
incompliance with the general wiflies of the liland : tefot
Nothing can be clearer, than that if they had been f oKlc
off the island, the rebels could not have been indu- that
ced to surrender from i heir almolt jnacceflible fact- the t
ntfses. We ate happy to have it id cur power to be hi
fay, that the terror, excited by the appearance of c X p e
the dogs, has b*n fuffieient to produce so fortu- j w hei
natj an event ; 'and we cannot but highly approve and
that attention to humanity so strongly proved by With
their being oideied in the rearot the arm). Ens
as f
BOSTON, July 12.
Th'e legislature of France is turning it s attention \
m i-Three,hundred mil- 4n ti
lions have hJBtBLdtX. to 4he object ; and the Ex- f a lc
8g« 1»H a , Coi
m»tion to Ljfinsj'and the other great manutaiiu
ling towns, -praying the citizen?' to forget their a- qua
niroofities, and unite their exertions in measures 'io cn
re ft ore to fiance, one of the great'foorses of its "fuV
wealth-—th. arts and manufactures. ■ ,2 1 .t
sympathy's untutored voice, \ . .^ e
, Bi'tauylit'lis social ties tifkecp, ■
; ii human heart jejoics, ' '
' Ami weep if eye (hould weep-" he;
.We fwpe tfie citizens of By'tou y-ili i)i»t fufFcr|"' :
themselves to DC ontdonfi in a&s ofbenevoler.ee— t'o
hearts are certainly as finely atjtined to the P"
pitting call of cVaritv as anymi the coptinent ; ajid 31
we hope they will yet set au example to the largei f'*
cities, by a liberal subscription for the relief of the 'hi
citizens of Charleston, now fnffering under the taofl
severe calamity of the kind any town in the United h;i
States was ever nffli&ed with. It is true, that to Vo ,i>J:
particular individual is the benevolent djity assigned Li
to him : but someone mnft begin ; au'd befidesthc hi
consolation of having taken the lead, he will find if'
enough to .follow him—and when once begun the lh
buhnefs will appear to be halffinilhed/'
. Cl
T! - Branch Bank of the United Statesat Charles
ton i« confeqnence of the calamitous situation of
thatu ty, have resolved to difccunt full renewals
for fields due for the three fuececding difcouut days,
The British (HalitaxJ squadron now cruihng ]J
off the coat! of the United States, confilts, it is F
said of :en fail of wen of wai and Irigates. F
Capt. Hill, who arrived on Sunday, saw during ni
the Friday beware, tuu frigates,undereafy fail, (land
ing to the egftward. Soon after he 101 l fight of si
them, h very heavy cannonadin/ commenced, and f t
continued for an hour ; from whence he judged so
that an adlion had occurred betvveeu the two frigates v i
he saw. The tiring was evident ; and though the v
frigates were not in fight, fit's vefiel trembled on Jj
cacli discharge. Oth:t ai rivals heard a firing the y
fame day,
Cintinel.J
NEW-YORK, July iJ. _
Some time patt the opening of the Scheldt was
proclaimed, with great pi mp and publicity, by tne
French government. Liberal men rejoiced that
the (hackles of monopoly were broken, and expec- J
ted that Freneh Republicans would insure a partici
pation of the benefits of that river to all the ivorld. v
Alas ! the news has reached us, that the French
jnd X)utch Republicans have at |a ! V agreed to (hare !
the in hole navigation of that river among I Bemfslva ■
No good tnan can help regretting the interior
situation of France. -While her armies cairy the
flandard of victory iaAevery. quarter, the chfTerent
parties at home seem cfetjerniined to detltoy the Re
public, :*.nd bring thrvtrjr name ol free government
into contempt, and apparAitly without any motive
but to gratify the pirvate passions of individuals.
The plot thf.t has lately Wui detected, wants the
pretcucc of tyranny tojullify it. Ihe Coiiventiot)
R «•
* '' f
m , - • ;t.
that _the lail kiVg hud a pretence —the - been-jjr'
ir.en v»ho tc#ok off ilobefdierre had a p^fe'itce— laie;< I
even ,tlie at the drganiziijon of vfe day, Sail,
present gowrnmeiit had a pretence, v;z. re ehciion oj ry.
two thirds. But the present government feerus to '1 he
be in general well adminillcrcd, and rhe last confpi- teer frh
racy of Jacobins seems at prt sent to be without tas, bea
ajiy platiC'oh' pretext —it appears to be a mere fpi- ou boar
: rit* of priJbte revenge and fatlion. Let these cala board tl
• mities teach the Americans true and/aving wisdom. to the :
, m ———**— was givi
Philadelphia, W °The
TUESBAY 19,1796. Betsey,
1 Frtw the Sluror.i. S.lip
COMMUNICA 1 lON.
7 Carlisle, July 7. .
Ido myfelf the pleasure of handing you a number of '" rrl
patriotic toalls \vhich were given on the 4th infl. by a son (ji
number of our citizens a.Teinbled to celebrate that ever April,
memorable day. A SUBSCRIBE ft- Passe
Bleflings of peace, long miy they be (hovered down g
" on the heads of freemen. Also
Every true friend of Frmce. t5 , ;
and infamy, may they be the portion of ■- "
thole with to wean our atfeitions from a fitter " in<
s country. V tl' e a 'oe
Bntifn influenee, may it be forever discarded tl^e
J couhcits of America. We
America, long may (he remain the wonder of the • j a( j
« : world, and her councils dire&ed by true republican
1-' principles. • , ,
Congress, may it be composed of the ftitnds of Ame- "
. rita and the enemies of Britain. broke
Honor, may it be the chief ingredient k> the charac
; ter of Americans. r| x per
Every real friend of liberty, may he never fee his i-j IPCe {
country uniting herfetf to a despot without an effort to 1 p er
ditloke the union. 4 ' _ptr
1- In freedom may we enjoy the pleasures of life, and Dtftrre
i\- in slavery may we covet the bleifings of death. BANK
jr French principles, may they teach us to detest Britilh ,
politics. .
' Payment of just debts, may we be anxious to fettle lnluran
le with our creditors, and never forget our obligations to —
France. EsJh.
to The-J' Authentic Intelligence" from the Cape,
refpefting the arrival of Richery's fleet, has at
length ptoved totally unfounded.
ur M nfr. Parent's Courrier Francois, after ad
to ding to the article brought by Capt. Aikifllon, at p n
n( l Baltimore^thai they expedled Richery's fleet tevery L
moment at the Cape, has the following obfervatio-:s
'Ur 0 n this vifionaty report.
iv- «■ It is probably the arrival of this fleet [a Spa- y e
'g» nifh squadron at Port St. Domingo, about todays f Q jj oW
,dV befote Capt. Atkitjfon failed,j which hat induced t j t |
sen fume persons of tin; Cape to write from thence, rc( j t(
-u- that Richery had arrived We have 10 much a e
aft" the more foundation for believing that fleet wot to
to be his, because the Cape being the centre of the ornv
of expeditions, it would sooner have landed there, ( j a y S
tu- w here all the French fleet has already rendefvouzet), dete , l
0.,e and where they would be more at hand to the Eu- ,| ie ; r
by glifti than at St. Domingo ; atbwn distant from the zeT|^
Englith conquetls and their matiiime forces, at, well j |4Ve
as ftom the French forces.'' -j*
COMMUNICATION.
tion What good republican but mud rejoice at feeing a) .
mH- in tiie Aurora of ihis foreriooll, the refo'iU;. u m. the ro
Ex- faleof prizes, as presented ly Eerie Marion to the | ff ]
JC'la- Council of Ancitnts 1 for heie we perceive how cx ( j ct . r
i£lu- ~£tly in unison, the piefcnmion of Mr. M;:rb;.is j.
: ir»- quadiates with the inHru6Hons given by the Prcti
sslo ijient to the different States of the Uwion on tins fami
f its Mjcdk, viz. That neither our own courts of admi- nl ; r
'riilty, nor the Fieaeh Consult have the leatl (hadoyv
jof right, coufonmible to the laws of nations and (u v
> treaty between France and America, to Jell w j la
\the:r prizes in oar par tu Here also we ice with |lltl;
.heait felt pleasure, that the croakiug forebodings ()av ,
FySer <'fSkiii>k and his Jacobin party,on the wife intlruc- ,j ie
Cc-4— lions of the Executive forbidding the fa\e of Ftcjich t |,; r
otht; prizes, would endanger our happiness and eventu- ,
; aiid ally bring on a war with our allies are an a! solute £ roI
avgci fa'.fehood. What will these abhorrent men fay* to
f the this ioterdiftion, and the French Resolutions ? aU( j
mofl Mast r.ot fueh mutual concoidance to the general
'nited happiness at both countries aft as a total defeat to cet j
tovo their predictions and hope!, and prolong the general f e|l
i' r ned happiness of the union ? God keep Us ! as he hath f u j (
es the hitherto wonderfully doue, from the evil of Jacobin- t j n
1 find ifm,aud prefeive us in pure and reciprocal friend
n the Uii,p with the French Republic. ot j
July 15 th, 1796. £$
Copy of a letter received by a merchant of this city
tarlef from Captain Cochran of the Thetis frigate.
ion of On board his Britannic Majefty'sflip Thet is,
icwals July loth, 1796.
tdays, Sir, ( ol
SOME days ago I met with the btig John of
uiting Belfafl (that had been taken by the Brutiis, a tic
it is French privateer) and said t» be owned by you.
For many reasons it flruck me thut (lie was French tu
luring Dro perty; therefore sent her into .Halifax. iel
(land- ' As I have no wi(h to interrupt the trade of real i tij
• lit of American citizens, I therefore requetl you will g«
1, and forward such proofs to Halifax, fliould the property ba
ttdged he yours, as clearly to prove the lame, and to con- —
rigates vince the American gentlemen, that no undue ad
gh the vantage is wilh'd to be taken of them, I fend this
ed on by the chief mate of the vessel, that he may enable J.' c
ig the y ou to obtain every information.
. I am, Sir,
el. 1 Your humble ferva^t,
A.F.COCHRAN,
Capt. his 3. M. ] hip Thetis.
dt was L_
by the ARRIVED AT THIS PORT.
] that r Days
expec- Brig Wm. Pennock, Halliday St. Croix 15
jartici- Nancy, Belcher, Bouideaux, - 63
ivorhh Sch'r Hawk, Parrock Jama if a 2 3
French . cleared. -
o (hare Sch'r Susanna, Carson Baibadoes
nfelticj• Pomona, Gaidner Botlon I
Eliza, Williamion N. York
interior Nancy, Morris do.
iry the Betfcy, Robinfyn Curretuck
lifierent Sloop Driver Ciircy Hifpatiiola
the Rc- Mary Newkall • Malaga
rrnment Harmony, Eliwood AUxandria
motive Defiance, Kentee N. Caioliua
viduals. Capt. cherry in tKc fliip Three Friends, arrived
nts the at New-York, had 56 days passage, and failed from
iventioi} Atr.ftcrdain the 17th M«y» not the'27th a» has i
♦V\ ' /
, been. acconr.ts -.tan fore cannot be so
! iate tln.fe by the Margaret arrived hfhetn S 'Mir For the (
day bit, which failed three days ajter Capt. baer
ry. _ Mi
The Hawk was J>fOUjrl»i to by a Fremh priva IT is
teev frhooner under Spanish colours, cape Coriea. •<jrlu«le t
tas, bearing N. dill, about 4 leagues, ordered capt- J
oil board rhe privateer, and fenlan aroied boat a- ; reHl; , r k s
board the Hawk, which plundered her ofpropetty w | lcl
to the amount of 150 dollars, for which an order co^i,ls j
was given on a merchant of Philadelphia to the a- V :romei
mount of 50 dollars. , ; nited Si
The lame privatter had before plundered the f or(j |gp
lietfey, M'CuHough. j own foil
Ship Old Toiii, failed from Port Royal 26 ult. j
" I laii'S hi
" " • Quebec, June 30. | fraiVi
Arrived liis majesty's (hip A£t;ve, Edward Leve- } tave ab
son Gotver, Esq. from Portlrr.ouih j failed 24th 1
April. _ j iport ol
Pslfengers, Gen. Piefcott, hii lady, fawiily and , et j
suite, Sir Geor ie Powna'il, a'ld Mrs. Monk. Vj 4e
Also an ived his majeliy's (hip Pearl, Sartiuel J. the ere;
Bal'ard, F:fq from Spithead—lailed ill May. aud At
Nine lail of merchantmen failed under convoy of a ) wav j
the above Ships, and ate also arrived. w ho ar
— who ar<
We learn that a man was killed by the lighten
iug Jail evening at Campington. _ Bouy c
•The .day" before yelhertlay a gardener in the. ~)] t | ( ; a
neighbourhood (if the city, fell tiom a tree and p ur f u |,
broke his neck. other 0
STOCKS. for the
Oix per Cent. - - ... - - 17/S Thl
s Three per Cent. ------ - ic«; ■ oull in
3 }>er Cent - ate
4 ; ' per Cent. --------- 14/ EiWli!
i Deferred per Cent. - - - - 13/6107 11
BANK United States, ... - *4 pr. cent. <ht; "
b P«r>nfylvania, ... - 19 the na
■■ — North \meiica, - - - -44 * languf
e Inl'urance Comp. North-America, 14 2 5 carry 1
0 Peuofylvaiiia;, 9-010 per cen t to t {,j,
Enhance, at 60 days, - - - 165 t« 1661-3 being
.!>■! llll|l«aMMM>—' 1Q
;; BY THIS DAY'S MAILS. gence
mt ♦ ou. Pc
1- NEW-YORK, July 16. !° 0111
n 1 IS not
lt r ßy the Three Ftjendt, Sherry, from AmJUrdam, ,
y tranflatedfur the Argus.] leemi
, this 1
AMSTERDAM, May 11. moll
a " Yefterdny at noon wc had the Prnclamation as as an
follows The Commonalty of Amsterdam, with ; n pj,
;d that fallibility with which they always have infpi- -j-|
e> red their fellow citizens, having been informed, that uti ; ve
r " a great many of the inhabitants ot this city, the yj
to greatell.part ol tbem belonging to the militia which f]
forms the artillery, have been so audacious, fcveral ce ; vg
"V> days paR as to make fcveral attempts to subdue the yj
; t! > detenVelefa citizens without the walls of the city, a j; t j o
their intention .being to diiturb'and abuse the cili p ren
* e zens, by which their persons and pioperty would jnvo |
c '' !uvt been brought into imminent danger. _ yet j
Th.refore ihe.msgi(lratfsafter maturedeliberati- p rcr]
uo have fouud it liectflary, to difmiU the militia, <r (
n 8 ar-iUeiy, and all the citizen* wW have -j
l!t ro pci for 11 their duty j dtfm'iQing liktwife, the co- p rE .
* loucU, captains, lieutenants and all the fubalterp of- V|I) ; (
'■* Ijcrrs of the riyters.—- _ V
" ls l'!;e mngiftrates ordered them to bring their arms j
Veforc tiK committee, et 6 o'clock P.M. ofthe
' ns fame day,.at a place by them appointed, that they agai
T "* might 'be depoiitcd in the militaiy flores. The ma CQU j
ov giit'raiesiillo expressly forbid the officers of all tanks as n
to wear any luie aitas or other dirfenfive weapons (lea .
If 11 whatfoevcT, ui>Jer penalty of the fevettll puniai- hut
uent. these orders of the magittrates
n ß s have not been regarded by the live companies ol OQ
the artillery, coufilling of five hundred men, one p 3 r
I"-'' 1 third of which only icfurnt^ftieir arms. A body c |; a
llu " of them afTembled yellerday afteieoon in the fields,
' utc from whence they marched to town, withdrawn
to fwordsi being joined by a great number of citizens, me|
ns ; aud psfled themselves opposite the City Hall, in
era ' fpitc of a very powerful guard, which was reinfor-
1,0 ccd by the cavalry. At Jialf pall 6 o'clock they ,
,e,al sent» mefTago to the alTcmbled magillrates, the re
aath f u | t 0 f [ s as yet unknown. In the mean
't""" time the m»b repaired to the prison, and by foice
liberated all the prisoners, and committed many
other outrages •, but there was no blood (hed. .
[ Silver a! other articles ive hope to have ready far in- nQ
city fertion to-morrow. J s et
left's, lX* SAVANNAH, Juiy t. f,',
A gentleman diretlly from Greene County, tnV (£(
forms that 500 families had lately arrived thcrel;
n of from Kentucky. The catife of this sudden emigra-lj
ns, a tion, is not particularly learnt. If
you. It is reported that a renewal of hoftHities has ac-
reuth tually taken place by the Indians on the frontier p
settlements. If this be Hue wu lament the condi
' real tion of those defencelefs inhabitants, who from indi
will gency, are compelled .to fuffer the ravages of a bar-
p Cr ty barous and unprincipled people. y/
; °ad Choice St. Croix Sugar & Ruw,
(1 this NOW landing from on board the Brig Willian Pen-
'' 11 nock, Capt. i homas Halleday from St. Croix and for
sale by „
Pragers Ss 5 Co.
Ji.lv 19. diw. r
For Sale,
7 1
By Ifiac Moses and Co.
21 Casks & a half of RICE, t
AYS Low for Cadi or a (I ort credit, alio Ic
'* 585 Salted, prime winter hides. 1
, Enquire at Mr. Sears'Tjvcrn, North Seco nd St.
" - 1 No. 59. July, 19. <_ *djt__
aadoes Plans of the city of Iphia,
Boston Including the Northern Liberties and diftridl of
.York Soothwaßk;
j 0 Pubiithed, and fold by
retuck BENJAMIN DJI'IES,
pamola No. 68, High ilreet,
VlaWa (Price one dollar.)
. , THlSplanis i 6 inches fqnare, ajd has been en
ian. r.a „ r lVc j ;,y 0 ,, e the iirll artifls in the city, from a late
jiolina acctlfate furyey. Purchasers are entitled to S pam
arrivet. phlet with each plan, giving " fame account ol" the
d from 1 city, its population, ?, government, &c.
a> has 1 juiv iy ' tu.&ftf •
7 v — "
tof the GAZETTE o** THE UNiiTD STA'j'fj
*2 |
Mr. Fenno, '
IT is ;lways with indignation that attempts !j»
•delude tlie public mind mu(l he -receive!} in Ame
rica. Surely in this deft-rip"ioa mr.il humified.l be
remarks of a writers*! you." paper 151b
ly, who fceiH3 d e firrM^lo_ e up a -party e,f j
cobi'is in France anf America, to lieftrey the p<v
, vrrijmetit of tlicft- codatriet. Speaking of the U
nited Stares he fays,y" Ji is felt and known' £it
• . foreign villains direrfmiie £»ob and rogijes of <,;r
I own foil in their fchctne* iPr -anarchy and fnflfcn."
| Speaking of Fiance *' Many of our vi'.
j laii'S hive P,;,i , o I'rancxy W'.C'.C they ,u ■
lin fraivln'i-nt tpei tiljMoni on'the unfuminrir, and Y, "
"] have abeitttl coi.fpiracy," &e. Whattt ridiculous
'jpi A ure does this give of bbth .Kltiwi; France tire
I iport of our villains, and nv fools arid roguvs play
ed upon, I-fappofe by'iHcirii
The fail is, that nil this lina spun f;ibri« is merely
the creature of a distorted imagination., to 1' n-r-.-.-e
| and America theic are indeed.arid I prefnme tfiTnt ~
,f aluavS mull be cuntetls fcr pwver. And tllols
who are in the Caddie will always be shilling tbole
who are out. In order to fe.urc their places, they
'■ will-frequently found alarms; and, like the Bloody
Bony of Porcupine, bold up fright fcl images, But
** all this while the nations tiicmfclves are traiiquilly
.pursuing their Gbjcfts ; and whether one or
other of the parties prevail, (leering a dire£l courfc
for their own bappinefs.
That Americans may be looked upon with dif
null in France, is probables but not becanfe they
, are Speculators or Jacobins, but because they arc
Engliihtiien. There is no doubt but that mmy of
the hirelings and partizans of Pitt have affirmed
the name of American ; under such a gaib the
language and manners being fimiiar the better to
cariy ou their intrigues agaiifft the Republic ; add
'' to this that tire news received m France of licrfeS
being {hipped from this country to St. Domingo
to a£i againlt the national forces; with (he intelli
gence of their prizes being forbidden to be fold in
oui ports; all this may produce effcdls unfavorable
to our kind treatment iti that country. But this
is not all ;'our public orations, newspapers and pare-
m ' plets the mod f.ivorable to our government often
teeming with abuse of our iifttr Republic. AH
this 1 fay is well calculated to generate, not the
moll {nothing feelings towards our independence ;
. zs as an exaaiple take the following 1 A tuall is given
! th in Philadelphia,
P l " The French Republic ; victory tb her arm?, and
!al universality to her principles.
l ' lc What is the remark of your commentator ?
ich That this country as well as all Europe tnay re-
ceive the law from her Own lips.
l ' lf Why pray Mr. Fenno is this country in the en
l*J> ajilion or are her principles so tinlike those of the
:l M French eonftitution, that in wUhing well to one yoii
involve the downfall of the other ? finely not; and
yet if not what means ihe exprefKon ; that if the
a^ 1 * French arms triumph we mull receive the law from
her own lips ?
~^ c '' Take another toad: The filler Republics of
co * France and America; may their efforts eter be
10 united in the cause of humanity.
What fays your commentator?
11ms Doucc Humanite and her daughter Mademoi
fclle Guillotine. Does not the cloven foot here
7 again- manifell jlfelf? Who but the Have of Pitt
m ' l could.i are made this remark ? Are not the French
as milch as we are avetfe to the guillotine ?LX> we
P?" s bear now of its ravages? To what purpefe recal it,
but to awgjcen four ill-natured impreflious a
raUS jrainit our ally ? Is this kind or likely to produce
9 good treatmifnt to oiir countrymen in France.? Or
or,e is not the ftfntiment formed to producp whai is
bod y charged on our Jacobins, the endeavour to create
c ' l ' s ' hollility between the two governments, to create
rawn awakening difagfreeable impressions ot French
zcn.®' men in the minds of out 1 people ?
ill. in fuller in the cause of freedom ; and may
rifor- t jj e y protested by those who are free.
the y o.> this your commentator fays,
le re " As Hollaud and Geneva hart been a la-raodc
mean p ranca if ? . t
force What his meaning here is, it is not ea(y to con
many jedlure; but his remark on the 4th toast of the
• iladlholders expulsion, having reduced the Dutch
,r noble to nine pence aud the nine pen«e to nothing,
seems to explain his idea Jo be, that the trench
protcdlion is little better than robbery ; whereas the
T\ tiuth is, that we have alked and have had that pro--
teAion in 1778, without being at all the worse for
l ."' re l it. And Holland, to judge by her a&ual exer.
:nl £ ra "| t ; ons ;is to her fleets, fcems moie vigorous thati (he
j hath long been in her exer^'apa. but if Jhe. hath.
S ? C " fuflered, hath it lint been by. Biitilh protedion J
ontier w -jj a j that ended in ? <
c ° n , I .' The capture of her foreign poflefiions,
n rndi- Thc robbe , y of lier (iups put into Britilh port*
a aT j before the wat,
■< The lloppagd of the interest due her on money
Ihe had too confidently invelted in the Britilh fund*.
p In (hort, for inaances of Britilh proteflion,
a "df"r at plundered natives of Afra ( look at
" Bermuda and our own spoliations; look at the
lladtholder and king of France dethroned, thc
'j kings of Spain and Sardinia barely saving them
.. ■ selves in time from a fimiiar fate.
For French protedlions look at America enjoy
ing Liberty and Independence ; the Scheldt open
ed ; the Dutch free to form a government foe
themfelyes, These events all affilted by the French,
arms, on principles the molt amiable and dilint*-
J e g retted, speak for thcmfelves.
, ' A. B^
) nd St.
_*djt_ . : T _'
sos Schooner LITTLE JOHN.
FOR SAL%
THE Schoonr* LITTLF, JOHN,
CAPTAIN BOYD,
\ BOUT iS months old, a very fdt
been en- l\ filling veflel, bn Virginia Pilot b»al
2m a late plan, now laying at South street wharf,
oapam- carries near 900 barrel?, « reidy to take
tof the i a cargo ;. a liberil credit will be jir-n.
' Apply to PETER BLIGHT.
6f tf • July *9, * icteciNo. I 3*.
Difirifl of Ptm/j-lvayiia : to nit.
BE. it rctarmbered, that onv/cnty-fourth day of Jim,
in the twentieth year of the'liideperiidcrice of the United
. k 't.i'c» 01 America, 'Of the laid DiMrift haih
rcv«;sted in this office flie title of a book, the right whereof ,7 :
he claims Piopiietor, in the words following: to wit; ncx
" A fhon and candid Enquiry into the proofs of ChrilVs
** divinity; in whieh DO6IOI Priestley's opinion concerning | an
*• Ch>ift is occ«fioT»ally considered. In a letter to a friend. on
<L Hv Char les H. Wharton, D. D. and Memberof the
Puilofophieal Society of Philadelphia. /
denieth the Son the fame hath not the Fath- 0
er. Let that therefore abide in you whith ye hare heard nc
•• from the beginning ;if that which ye have heard from the 'P r
" beginning foall remain in you, ye also fliall continue :ri e8 »
44 the'on and in the father. St* John, lftfcpift. c. ii. v.23, un
•' !4." of
corformity to the a£fc of the Cowgrefs of the United States vej
iirn<uU4 *■' An aft for the encoungcmeni qf learning, "by se
c ing the copics of Maps, Charts arttt Books, to the authors eu
■1 • d proprietors of such copies, during the times therein vie
SA Mb EL cq-
Cleric of the Diftrift of Pennfylvauia.
June»Q U4WW ( { e
Ail persons lgaving demands
on ANTHONY ROLAND BUSSIER, are reqUcfted to _
brliig in thflr accounts on or before the firft day of A'uguft
next, or they will be excluded from a dividend then to
. sate plate. WILLIAM CHANCELLOR,-)
JONATHAN JONES. (Auditors
JOSIAH TWAMLEY, 3
July y. . *eod rt
F(Sr the use of Schools.
Tomkins's Text, Round,- (bid Running- to
hand copies. '
JUST publifbcd, and fdr file by W. Young, the corner of c:
Second aud ttreeu, and J Ormrod, No. 41
Chefnut-ftrect. Piice of proof iirprtdioni on fiue.paper, 1
dollar. Common,' 75 certlC Executed in a ftfle superior IS
to aiiy'that have been lonnetly engraved in the tinned States,
aft! not inferior to anyol the kind imported from Europe.
June 30. W".'"' th
JOHN PAUL JONES. £
r [FORMATION is hereby given, that tht late John ti<
Paul Jones was a proprietor of five (hares (amount- fti
ing to about 5867 icrc») in a trad of land purchtfed by co
the Ohio Company, in the territory of the United States ce
of America, north-weft of the river Ohio ; and that his Hi
heirs, or legal representative, on application to the direc- CI
tors of said company, at Marietta in the territory afore- th
f.-.id, will receive a deed of the said five Clares, or rights fe
of land. , ar
The application maybe made perfontflly or by an agent, vc
but proper documents mnft be produced to prove the
claimant or claimants the legal heirs or representative of be
the said Jones. ro
n.b. As it is not known in what country the person w.
or persons interested relide, ifWiMbe an aSt of benevolence m
in every Printer in America and Europe, who Ciall insert fe<
this advertisement in his paper. f°
In behalf of the dire&or. of the Ohio Company, >«
RUFUS PUTNAM. an
Marietta, May 00,1796. [June 4 ] jawgw Vl,
„
AN EXTENSIVE ASiORTMENT OF p C
Books and Stationary, f h
"WTwiefale and Retail, now opened and for Sale by i n
WILLIAM YOUNG, • m
Bitiftller, Nt. $1, Corner of Second and Chefnut-flreets. th
AMONG which are English, Latin, and Gxzek. «o
Classics and Dictionaries, Divinity, Law, His- gr
tout, Tkavels, Voyacss, Mi»CEtLANiE»,and themoft lu
esteemed Novels.
* WRITING AND PRINTING PAPERS. ne
" From the best manufa&urers in Europe, and from his mi
ntifa&orj on Brandy-wine, viz. im
Imperial,plain and >t ove Hat Small folio post, phia th
Super-royaldo. Ho. Ditto gilt
•Royal do. do. Blossom paper assorted an
Medium do.'-do. Transparent folio.poft fe]
Demy do. d«. Superfine and common foelfc'.
Ghlzed and hot-preff«d folio Marbled papers. Pi
and 410 extra largr post coarse papers. _
T.bick poll in folio ciito do. L ondon brown, assorted
-Ditto in 4to. ditto do. Hatters' paper
"Folio wove post, lined Stainers' paper
Qnarto ditto do. Common brown T
Ditto gilt do. Patent fhcathing X
Common size folio post Bonnet boards w
Ditto quarto, plain Binders' Boards. a
Folio and quarto post, gilt, _ T,
yllfo, a -variety of other Stationary Articles, viz. fie
Wedgwood and glass philosophical ink ftsnds, well afloit- T;
jeri.,; pevi ter ink chests of various sizes ; round pewter ink- R
stands ; peper, brats, and polilhed leather ink (lands tor the t]
pocket. Shining sand and find boxes, pounce and pounce
boxes, ink and ink powder. Counting house and pocket pen
knives of the best quality, ifs {kin tablet and memorandum
books. Red aud colored waieis, common Sec, office ditto.
Quilts, f'om half a '.ollar, to three Asllan per hundred.
Black-lead pencils, mathematical in(lrumem«, 4c. See.
All forts and fl2.es of Blank Bo >ks, read, made or made
to.order. Bank checks, blank bills of exchange and notes of "1
hand, executed in copperplate, bi Is of lading, mamfefts J
■jeamcn's articles and journals, &c. &e. w
June 18 " W 3 W ds
This Day is ptiblifhed, "
By ai
BENJAMIN DAVll.j, No. 68 High-flreet,
. :
WILLIAM COBBETT, Second-flrett, opposite Chrifrs b
Church, ai
The Sccond Edition of ri
Porcupine's Bloody Buoy,
With additional Notes and a copious Appendix. '
July ti ' ' law 4t
The PANORAMA,
IN High-street, exhibiting a view of tlie cities of Lon- |
don and Weft'nunfter, will positively dose on Tuesday £
uvening, the 19th instant, and will not be exh bited in t
l'hilad-lphia again. ]
"Philip Nicklin & Cd. \
HAVE FOR.SJIE, .
■Souchong -v
Hyson Skin /
Young Hyfoo S FRESH TEAS
jlyfon and \
Imperial .
Yellow Nankeens
China Ware, assorted in Boxer and Chelti
Quicksilver i
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
London Market } MADEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, hogflieads, &
New-York Market J quarter calks
'feneriffe Wine in pipes and hoglkeads
Sugar Camdyfeythe Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in fhects
3 Calks of Ctukrv assorted \
A few chests of Mailchefkr Goods, assorted tbkk
f-ts, cords, striped Nankeens, &o.
3 Small packages of black
!i Tierces Virginia Snake-roe*.
Nails assorted in caiks
Ju-y IS « was
F 0 R S A L E, |
A very Valuable Eilate,
CALLED TIVITTE NHA M, situate in r -.
townftiip of Upper Derby, anc! county ot Delaware, ]
7 1-2 miles from Phitad ljihia, and haff a mile from the pp
new Wellern road: containing 230 sieves of excellent land, Cf .(
45 of which are g;ood watered mendow, 90 of prime wood- ] ar
land, and tJie reft arable of thti fir ft quality. There are f ; <j
on the premises a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pttmp-well fui
of excelltnt wsiter in front; a large frame barn, tables, rci
and other convenient buildings ; a smoke-house and itone,
. fpriug-houfe : two good apple orchards, and one of peach
v es. The fields are all in clover, except thrtfe'immediately
, under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
of water in each of them, whick renders it peculiarly con- r-i
6 venient for grazing. !
The situation is plcafant and healthy, and from the high. p ( ,
s cultivation of the land, the roo'l neighbourhood, and th<:* q (
1 vicinity to the city, it is very fuitable.for a gentleman's
country feat. Pc
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Hatfman, P1
deceased, and offered for fak by th
5 Mordecai Lewis, th
Odl. 9. eo.J Survivhig Executor.
I PROPOSAL S, h
3 • By BIOREN V MADAN, kl
For publilhing by Suhfcription, that celebrated Work,
* Godwin's Political Justice.
From the last London Edition.
TERMS; t ),
I. It will be publilhed in two large volumes, duodecimo/
11. Price to Suhfcribers,two dollars,handfomely bound, ~i;
to be paid ..n delivery of the work, ac
111. As soon as a number of Suhfcribera appear, fufii- .n.
if cient to defray the expence, it (hall be put to press.
1 IV. The namei of the Subscribers fhnil be prefixed,
i Th > followina; Character of this work cc
>r is extrafled from the Monthly Review, p. 311, 312, for
>» , March, 1793. ti(
We have nofmall degree of pleasure in announcing a <
_ the present work to our readers; as one which from the
freedom of its enquiry, the grandeur of its views, and the
fortitude of its principLs, is eminently deserving of atten
n tioti. .By this eulogium, we would by no means be under
:- stood to fubferibe to all the principles which these volumes
y contain. Knowledge is not yet arrived at that degree.of T
:s certainty which is reqmfite, for any .two men to thinjs a- A
is like on all fubje-Ss; neither has language attained that con
:- Client accuracy, which can enable them to convey their w
> thoughts, even when they do think alike, in a manner per- Ul]
feilly correA and intelligible to both. These difficulties
are only to be overcome by a patient, incelfant, -end bene
t, volent inveftigatittn.
e " Many of the opinions which thi< tvorit contains, *j-e 1
if bold; some of them are novel; and some doubtless are er
roneous :—but that which ought to endear it even to those
n whose principles it may offend, is the llrength of argu
e ment adduced in it to prove, that peace and order mod ef
t feitually promote the happiness after which political re
formers are panting ; —that as the progress faf knowledge
is gradual, political reform ought net to be precipitate;—
and that eonvulfive violence is dangerous not only to indi
viduals (for that rcfult comparative/,' would be of small
account) but to the general cause of truth. It is the op
posite of this principle that inspires the ensmiasof politic
al enquiry with so much terror ; it is the supposition that
change must inevitably be attended by the turbulence and
injustice of commotion; and that innovation cannot be
■ made without the intervention of evils more deftru&ivc
r. than those which are intended to be reformed. Under the
k aonviflion of this philanthropic sentiment, of calm and
1- gradual reform, (which in its proper place he has fully il
(l luftrated) Mr. GodWim proceeds withoutfcruple firft to en
quire into present evil, through its eifential branches, and _
next to demonstrate future good.
t- " Dividinghis work into eight books, and making mr
importance or political institutions the fubjeA of
the firft, he begins by an attempt to prove tht omnipo- T
teflce of government over the moral habits of mankind; |
and that on these moral habits their wisdom, virtue and u
felicity depend." ar
Subscriptions received by the publishers at their C a
Printing Office, back of -No. 7 7 Dock-street, Philadelphia. y<
Jane 18 $iweoim
Mjheton and James Humphreys, f r f
CONVEYANCERS,
HAVE removed their office to No. fit, Valnut-ftreet,
next door but two to the corner of Dsck-ftreet, j n
where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn at ee
a moderate charge, with £are,-i">iracy and diljiatch.— q
Thry like wife buy and fell Real Estates upon conunif
(ionfi, and procure Money upon Loan on good security.—
> The business of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NOT A- _
k RY PUBLIC is also tranfafted at the said office as usual
e by ASSHETON HUMPHREYS. .
;e N. B. Good Notes discounted. -p
l - July s- eo6w> T|
;■ Ten Dollars Reward. p]
Ran away,
>f TUNE 13d, from Briaa M'Laughlin, living at Henry
s J CiynierVplace ai Schuylkill point, a Young W<?rnan,
who passes by the name of Polly Morrison, low
_ darkish complexion, small grey eye%, about seventeen or e
eighteen years of age, had on a dark-celored (hort gown, J*
andlinf«y petticoat. She dole and carried away a trunk
and a confider&ble sum of money, and n other
articles. Left behind her a cloak of coating lined with
;reen baize, which iiTuppofcd to be stolen. The owner,
's by proving property may have it. AJ r hoever lodges her in _
any goal, so that {h* may be brought to prosecution, shall
receive Ten Dollars Reward.
June aßw}* BRIAN M'LAUGHLIN. 0
| Law Book-Store, I
No. 313, High Street.
GEORGE DAVIS begs to inform, his profeflional
friends, that per the Ceres just arrived from Lon
don, he has received the following scarce and valuable
:n books. State Trials, II vol. in 6 and n vol. Ruff
head't Statutes at large, 16 vol. Woods' Institutes, A
- Coke'? Entries, Raftell'6 do. Browne's do. Hearnes c
. pleader, Coke's ad, 3d, and 4th Institutes, 2 vol. Roll's ' t
Abridgment, Brooke's do. Biilftrode's Reports, K oil's
do. a vol. in 1, Eloyers Proctor's practice, Clarke's
! Admiralty, Rutherford's Institutes, or the
Eloquence and Logic of the Bar. These with his very
large colleiSlion from Dublin now en hand, will enable
him *0 fopply an entire library or a lingle book, as a
gentlemen may have occasion on their immediate apt
plitariop.
July 14. , iwiw ;
i —
The Public are refpe&fully '
informed, that all business in the line of a BROKER con
titoues to be tranfa&ed at tht office of the fubferiber, No.
*34, Market-ftrcet, next d»or to the laiid-«ffice, who re
turns his thanks for the patronage he has already been fa
vored with.
Lands &c. for sale, is various parts of the United
States—Particulars of which may be seen on application.
Corrjd ntmiefical bsoks will be kept of the Waihing
ck- ton and Canal lotteries, No. a, and Information given
where tickcts maj be had
Moiiey procured on good notes at the flsortcft notice. 1
MICHAEL GILL.
N. B. A complete aJTortment of Parent BOLTING
f CLOTHS, Ameriean maaufadure. July 8. fouwlw
\
To si: Sold,
A: y-,. Ixß, North Sf'ond-Street, .rtJ- by Jiveral of
the Jhot bee nri.'s in this C.'ly.
f T*R ANSWERS' of the to remove p*ins ami iuflamroa
' * iion« F r ont the human badv, asfcctired to D »'• KLISHA
PERKINS, hy patent, with inQrumems and di:< 9 " e ~
' ceflai'v for -the pra&icr. This mode of treatment is —
larly useful in relieving pains i«» the head face, teeth, breail,
' fide, ft -wm'h, back, rheum it ifnvs, recenr gout*,'&<*. &c.
* Notwithstanding the u'tlitv bf this praAicp* vt i» not pe
-1 fumed but there are cases m which this ani every other
, remedy may f'ometimcs fail. r
June 18, '» w 1"
War-Office of the United States, p t
e May 4th, 1796. i„
r | 'FIF. following Rules, explanatory ot * hale pnblifhed
L the 15th February, 1789, are to be observed by all t jJ
\ persons entitled to Lands, in purfu-nceof refclve® of
'* Congress
s Every certificate of the acknowledgment of a deed or
of attorney, either before 11 notary public or other
l > magi ff rate, in addition to what 13 usual, let forth
that the p«rlon making she acknowledgment is known to _
the notary or other magiflrate ; tor which purpofc words L,
of the following import must be inserted in the certificate.
" And I do moreover certify that the faiu A B making
this acknowledgment has been for perfonaliy
known to me."
If the notary or other rnftgiftrate has r6?fon to believe
that he is tne person he raprefccts hiinfclf to be, he wii
also certify't.
Andifthe proof be made by a witncfsorwitnelTes.hn or
theymuft fweartofome general ftateof their'knowledge ©i j,
[' him, which matter muffc be set forth in the ceVtificate ; and
» the notary public, or other raagiftrate, before >vhom j
acknowledgmeht is made, must alio set forth that the wit- a
" • ne:s or witnefleshas or have been for upwards of
perlrnally known to him. .
Jf a jufticc of the peace is employed, the clerk «f the £
court of the corporation or county must certify that fudi r
r person is as justice of the peace of the county or corpora- u
tion as the cafe aiay be, and that full faith is due to hit
* a&s as fuck. JAMES M*3£J£NR Y,
e ; ' Secretary of W-»r.
e May 12. MW3W
; George Dobsont,
if T1 ECS leave to inform th* Store-Keepers in Town and
AJ Country, that, he has removed from Market-Street to ■
N°- 25, south Third-street, j£
r where he is opening a Large and Elegant Affortmaot of the jlj,
- undermentioned articles—viz, a
-8 Superfine London Cloths and K«rfey meres,
Yorkshire second Do. 1)0.
XUiiic do. do.
c Mix'd and Biue Coatings <1' —
Fla:lnells, &c.
e I\ianche(ier Printed Callicoes,
London Chintz ditto,
Blue and citto Furnitures, -
India ditto,
c Long Cloths, CofTaes, Baftas, Battillai4c Conjevrerns, c "
4-4 g-8 5-4'& 6-4 Superfine India Book Muslins, a
4-4 and 9-Blndia Book Handkerc!i:ef« #
j 4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto, £
4-4 & 6-4 plain do. Muslins,
4-4 8c 6-4 Britilh Jaconets,
6-4 Britilh Checks and Stripes, ar<
c 4-4 India do. do, do.
4-4 ditto Chilloes," Madras Handkerchiefs, &c.
c A large afloitment of figur'd and plaia Muflirtets,
c Qiiiltings, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
e Fancy Waiftcoatings,
d Ginghams of the firftQuaHty, fubjeft to Drawback,
India Nankeens,
Men's White aW coloured Silk ftockiags.
J 9
For Sale,
>f A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
TN New Jcricy, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbour.
» 1 The Grift Willis fixtyby fort) feet, two water wheels, so;
and calculatcd for four run of Stones, with screen, fans
and boulting-cloths, &e. The Saw-Mill has two
' capable of cutting five to 6 100 thousand feet of Beards per
l - year. A valuable piece as Cedar Swamp, within a mile
Tind a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile -
of a Landing. The Lumber, &e. may be taken by water
from the mill tail.
ALSO FOR SALI,
'> Several Valuable Tra&s of Land,
!> In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be recciv- ®
" ed in the notes of MefTrs Morris and Nicholfon, or in
7 Ca(h-
For further information aj>ply to the Printer.
frkr '7- »aw T j,
a JOSEPH COOKE,
GOLDSMITH W JEWELLER,
The corner of Market and Third-streets, Philadelphia;
MOST reipeAfully informs his friends and the public, m
that he has received, per the Uft arrivals, a com
plete and general assortment of almost n(
Every Article in his Line;
„ Immediately from the manufactures of London, Bir
a mingham, and Sheffield, all of which are of the naweft f,
j' falhion, and will be fold, wholefalc and retail, on the ,otr- M
)r *' eft terms, and the Notes of Mr. Robert Morris, and Mr. Pr
n John Nicholfon received in payment at their current value,
jjJ N. B. The upper part of the House in which now Oi
r lives to be let, furnifhed or uiifurniftied. raw it
th Lottery and Broker's Office,
N Q " 64 South SecondJlreet, p>
jj "TUCKETS in the Canal Lottery No. 11, are now rca-
A dyjfor sale, a Check Bsok kept for the examination
of Tickets, And Prizes paid, without deduction. ''
The Subscriber solicits the application of the Public or
any ot his friends who wiib to purdhafe or fell Bank Stock, *
Certificates, Bills of Exchange, or Notes, Houses, Lands,
Lotts or Merchandize of any kmd, or to obtain Money a
an depolit of property. _
t WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
ile Late Jfgcnt for the Canal Lottery Company.
ff- ;fj~ Shares an. Tickets in the late Newport Long
:s, Wharf, Hotel and Public Schogl Lottery examined; a
,es complete lift of all the prizes having baen received at
l's this office.
l's Jnne 6. wics
"he Public Notice is given,
ry sO the merchants and others concerned in the (hipping
>le A at State-liland, under quarantine, that a Cart will
is attend every mo.ning, sundays excepted, from nine to
ip- ten o'clock, at the Health office, No. 3® Walnut-street, to
i tonvey'provifions or other Refrelhments to the Hospital,
and for the use of the crews.
It is expeiled that the 3ags, Baskets, or other packag
es with supplies, will be directed with the name of the vef
y fel and captain they are intended for, to prevent miilakes
J at delivery.
j 1 " By order of the Board of Health for the port of Phils- '
°" dclphla, LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH, Chairman.
fa- J ui ? ; § '
ted Insurance Company of N. A.
on. 'T'HE Dividend agreed upon by the Dircelors, for the
!g. X last fix months, is One Dollar and One feighth of a
ieD Dollar on each fiiare of ltoc'c in this Company; which
will be paid to the Stockholders or their legal r J prcfenta
tives, at any time after the 21 ft instant.
By order of the Dimflors,
vJG > LBENJiZ£iI HAZARU. flec'ry.
r Julyia
For Sal?,
A Few Calks of I irft Qnslity
I M D f G O.
Enquire at No. Ji, Sftuih Water itreet.
May i tht ftf
GEQRGK TfUNT ER 5 •
C H E hi I S T,
No. 114 South Second Street,
HAS for theft' two years |>aft introduced a new fpcciep
of PERUVIAN BARK, called YbU.qW
BARK, which after rfrp.-aied trials by th priacij<".l
Phyflcuns of this city,-is now preferred in aJvfcafes of
importance that require it, to the belt Rrfd and P le
BA It.i«4.powxful Altriugetir Bitter, fitc-well . i
the stomach, is certain in its effe .is,. an<l requires o.iiy
half the ufsal quantity for a dose.
Many of the citizens of Phil. Wpliia are row h<».
quainted with its virtues, the know'r-fge of wh'ch
t ought to be extended over the Uiiion. Ha has a large
, supply of the Yellow Bark, and a geneval aifortmem of
> Drugs, Colours, Glass, Dye Stuffs, SsV.
LIREWISF,
: Salt Petre, Jalap, and Camphor,
By the Quantity.
May if. *raw?t
FIFTY DOLLARS REWARDT
; ["> AN away from the fuhfcriber living near Church
j IV Hill,Qu"cn Anns County in the State of Maryland l
about the firlt of January lafi, a black negro man, named
. Sam, aWut thirty years of 5 feet 8-or 9 incho high,
has a cr«oked finger on one hand, and one leg and loot
smaller than the other, somewhat round-fhouldcred, his
. eloathing unknown. Any person who will facure or
, bring said fellow home v i» At 1 may get him again (hall
have the above reward withreafonahle charges.
\ WIIXIAM JACOBS.
Tune 4. "ra'—Mti
Mr. fi< AN Ci
(Of th: Now Theatrt)
TAKES this opportunity of returning thanks to hit
fchqlart and to.the public. Mr. Francis intends,
> I on his retwn from-Maryland, to open a public; aca
j demy for danehip, tipott a plan entirely new. He
! hatters himfelf that his attention to his pupils hi
'. therto renders any promises of condiflmg his future
fthemes on the molt liberal and ftri&eft terms, of pre
priet'y, totally unneceflary.
X. B. Private tuition as ufuil.
University of Pennsylvania,
July. 16 1.1364
THE Summer Vacation will take place on Mond.r, i.sxt,
the 18-h infi.andcj.ftiniie for Four week. —The differ,
eat Schools with ihi icvowit To t oks wilLaccorylingiy re»
aflemblo on Monday, ihe day of An;uftl
eo3 liy die Faculty, 'Wis Koo tas, Sec'y.
NOTICE.
ALL pcrfons havjrv; Bu&ntfj with (AMES SW *N, Eft},
are defited to apply at Mr. John Vaughan's, No. legSo,
Front-Street —For JaMES SWaN
'.RODOLPH ESCHMANN.
July 18. »t
Rofs 8c Si mi on,
HAVE FOR SALt,
French Checks
Stripes
Prir.teJ Cortorw „
Miiflincts .a wpk ~
Nankeens of an excellent quality per the package, fit
, for the Weft India market, and entitled to the Drawback •
i Grey Ginger in bags
Superior old Sherry in quarter calfcs
A few pipes and quarter casks Lilbon Wises
i June 12 §xw
JSK CAIKYINC THE
Mails of the United States,
On the following routes, will be received by the Pjllniafter
! at Savannah, until the flrft day of Sepiember next
1. From Savannah by Sunbury 10 Newport Bridge, ortte a
week.
Receive the Mail at Savannah every Saturday by 9 A M,a'r
. rive at Sunbury by 6 P M. and a Newport Bridge on Sun
day by 10 AM. Retiming, Leave Newport ftridgeon Sua}
day by 3 P M, and arrive at Sunbury in the eveiiirtg, and at
Savannah on Monday by 6 P M.
> 2. From Newport Rridgeby Darien and Brunfwick to St.
> cnce in tait weeks.
/>£cive the Mail at Newport Bridge every other Sunday
and arrive at St Mary's the next Wednefdav by 5 P ,M.
Reluming. Leave St. Mary'i ihe next day, Thursday by 8 A
M, and arrive at Newport Bridge the uextSjnday'by 10 A M.
* Note I. Jf rnlirr M tht routes areallereettyUm, iurint thea>n
-1 f nuance of the Centralis, Me Contractor is to ekjeroe fuck 3tcratwnr
- incarryingthe nw/, and his fa, „to be encrcfii or Umihrjkei. i* -
■■ proportion to the iijlmce cncrcafcd or dimimfhei by such alteration.
:, Note 2. The Contrails are to be in operation on the Jirjl day of
y ORobernext, andto continue for four yars until the 30th Sctstcm
b(r, 1800, inciufne:
Note 3. 1 :ePofl Mafler General may alter the times oj arrival
and departure at any time during the continuance of the Contrails, he
prewoufiy stipulating an adequate compensation for any extra etbenfe
!. that may be Cua honed thereby,
2 Note 4* Fifteen minutes Jhall be allowed for opening andclojing
tlx mil at all offices where no particular lime is fpecijied.
|r Note 5 . For every hour's delay (unavoidable accidents excepted)
J "."'"'"S *J teT ,lu times prefenbed in any cor,trail, the contraClar
' /ball forjeit one dollar And if the delay continue until the dtpa/t
---» ureoj any depending mail, tvherely the mails defined for such dc
y pending inait /hill lofeatrip, the contraflor flail forfeit ten Murt
—tibe deduCled from his pay.
JOSEPH HABERSHAM,
Post-Master General.
o- General Poit Office,
a Philadelphia, June »8, 17Q6. iaw6w
it — 7 ...
Urbanna Mill Seats ,
- n ITU ATE in Cecil county, Maryland, on the banks s
the river Sufquehicaa, about one mile above tide wa
ter, and commanding the water of that important river
,11 the channel conducing the trade of which comes so near
, 0 the Mill Seats as to make it couvenientto speak the boats
to and Mills may he so situated as to receive them along their*
walls, and by water lifts take in their cargoes. °
. There ia.a jinwer fudicient for mas'y and any kind of
ufeful Water Werks, and so much may be justly said in
,f_ commendation of this Scite as would b<£- inconvenient to
cs insert in a uewfpaper publication.
Those who may desire to be concerned, willprobabW
find tfemfelves well pleased on viewing the situation.
Leases for any term of years may be obtained on a'ppli.
cation to the fuhfcriber, living on the premises.
~ - CLEMENT HOLLTD AY.
L. "*P nl >9. law3m
he — 1
a. — mmmmmmmi , " 11 " 1 11 W—a II II ——^
ch
:a- PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
—No. xig —
chesnut-sts'eet,
[Priec Eight Dollars jier Annum.]