#a?ette ofthe Ullttetl States, 6- Philadelphia Daily Advertiser, '
Number 1297.] ' FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 4/1796. X.
— ■
For New-York,
v 77jr Schooner Mary,
Jofiah Douglafs, master ; will fail in a
few davs, and take freipht very low. A PPty ( °
Joseph Anthony iJ Co.
Nov. 3. t.
- ■■ * T 1 . "
Tor freight-or Charter to Europe, or
the WefMndies.
LSSEfST"* The new Brigantine
FAIR AMERICAN >
Richard Calli-y, Master._ .
"is in compl«t order, and in readinef* for receiving
a cargo. She is a handy velTel, and has good accom
rao lafions for paflengers. Apply to Captain Calley,
«<m board fa id vessel, laying the upper fide of the bull- |
House wharf, Southwark, or to
Isaac Harvey, run. ;
No. 3, So. Water-street- ,
nth mo. 1 ft. diw. !
FOR NORFOLK, I
Brigt. Olive Baancb, \
Powers Maftcr. f
To fail about the sth November. For freight, See. apply to c
the captain on board, at Walnut-street wharf, or to t
Philip Nicklinllf Co. *
Oftobcr 31. ?
J: or Charter, <
fhi Ship Dominici Terry, c
V** Jacob De Hart, master : an excellent
of about 3000 barrels burth 'n.
JeJfe y Robert Wain.
> September 2T. d
For Charter,
The Danilh Barque Bkneventura^
0 Samuel Stub, master, ii
' A good velTel, of about two '
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WAI.N «
Sept. 17. dtf £
FOR LONDON;
The capital (hip CERES, h
T° soon : —For freight or passage '
mA'"": fe&iUs»aapply ta DAVY, ROBERTS 3c Co. or |
yohn Vaughan, h
September 10. Front-ftrect.
The Brig MARY,
_ >-'-W Lying at Meffn. Willings and Francis's
wharf,burthen 2000 fcarrels, built in Philadelphia in 1793
of live oak and red cedar.—She is well found, and may
befent to sea at a small For terms apply to
Gurney & Smith.
O St*6. .dtf.
Just arrived, and will this day be lan
ded. frool on board the brig FAVORITE at Chefnul '
flreet wharf.
25 Tons befi Russia Clean HEMP,
tS JontoldTSable flat IRON,
- Ruflia CORD AGE, aflHrted (izes,
aoo 1 - brown Ruflia SHEETINGS,
ico fifrlts Ruflia DUCK, J
240 Pieces Ravens do. M
20 Half-down feaiher beds, and n(
A few pieces afforked DIAPER.
■FOR SAUf BT 1
Joseph Anthony and Co.
!*■ jV-» The ahove mentioned BRIG
will f-il a few days, and tak- freight on
-Amode^te terms for Boston or Salem, for
•whi4h Or paflage. apply on board or as above
. d
FOR SALE,
7 HE SHIP MAR?, H
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
Two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold is a few days, (hewill take
freight for Hambir g. Apply as above. 151
October 31. d *=
For Boston, Newbury-Port and Ports- ™
mouth, New-Hampshire, Pr
,r—- The Schooner LUOT,
1 Daniel Prowfe, master ; will fail in
! course of a week, and takff freight pa ,
moderate terms, for which, or ait
'=»3>Diaa &r passage, apply on board, or to _
Joseph Anthony, & Co.
October 17.
For Freight or Charter, Hl
£X-i The Ihip COMMERCE, A
gM,. NATHANIEL CURTIS, Mailer. !
Almofta new vefTel, 244 tons burthen, and will -r->
be ready to receive a cargo in a few days. For n
term > apply on board at Bright's wharf, or to i
Joseph Anthony & Co. r
For Sale on board tie abo-ue Vejfel, f
A quantity of excellent COAL. • 11
C 3* P' tons having goods on board, are earnestly requcft- ' J
ed to fend their permitj.
-0a ii. dtot di^
Boarding and Lodging ent j
Tvro GENTLEMEN may be accnmmo'da-ed with
Bqarui". l and Lodging, in a private family and pleafunt
part of the city. Apply to the Printer. Ofl.ij. tti
W AN TED, ' 2 -
As COOK, i(\ a private family, a woman of good eharafler a
anm who can be well recommended.
Enquiic of the Printer. - O
°. go '" rS' d 7t .
Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, jun. & CO.
Have received per the William Pcnn, in addition to Wat!
their own afforment, - —
A conf ? nmeHt of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele- , »
£ snt5nt Eendon patterns j also a few cases of handl'omo- rr
..uttoiw A hich will be fel lat a Ihort credit, ori very !
reafoiiahle te-ais, by the patkiae cnly. 1
Q£L SA - dtf 1 N
- "
j This Day is Published,
And fold by JOHN ORMROD.nNo. 41 Chdhut-ftrcet,
(Price onejixteentb of a Dollar.)
A P O£ M
On reading the President's Address,
WITH A SKETCH OF THE
CHARACTER or A CANDIDATE,
_ r r a r t ■ e
a PRESIDENCY.
This elegant little £o em is nrincecfin a form to"bcVour.d
with tht P-R2SIJD£NT : S faffiWnl addrefs,lately pabliftiecfty
T ToJm Gimrod.
' 5 r. '
: ]
ri n g FOR $AL J£, ]
A. very* Valuable Eltate, , ]
till- /"CALLED TIVITrE NHA M, fttuace ill the
VJ townlhip of Upper Derby, andcountyof Delaware,
71-2 miles from Phiiadeljfbia, and half a mile from the 1
new Weftcrn road: containing 230 acres of »xcellent land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood- <
land, and the reft arable of the firll quality. There are <
on the premises a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms I
on a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well J
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, (labLs, <
' and other convenient buildings; a smoke-house and stone, 1
spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach- I
fto es. The fields are all in clover, except tbofe immediately 1
under tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advantage
ol watfrin each of them, whiclt tenders k peculiarly con- 7
venient for grazing.
Tta situation is pleasant and healthy, aild from the high a
cultivation of* the land, the good neighbourhood, anil the I
vicinity to the city,'it is very suitable for a gentleman's a
country fest.
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman.
cn deceased, and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Ovsl. 31. iaw Surviving Executor,
To be fold,
/\ PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
j XJL ty ©f Gloucester, and ttate of New-Jersey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
red tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
great part of the arable land is in a high state of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the produ&ion of Red Clover, cl
On said plantation there is a geateel two-story brick house,
with four rooms on a floor, and a -good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage
houfe- The garden is large, and contains a good collec
age tion of the bsil kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees;
or the orchard consists of about three hundred grafted app:e
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premises, may
be informed of the terms by applying «s*
ANDREW HUNTER.
J"'T *9 F f e
Just Liiported,
j ß ' g Tin Plates in boxes
Sheet and bar Lead
la y sizes, patent and oommon .
Copper bottoms and ftieets
Englifli {hoes and boets in cases
Taunton Ale in calks of 10 d«z. each S
Balket SaJt
Wool Caids
1- Gold Watches,
iut " For Safe by - *
Simon Walker, f
■ oa - 7' mwfint Dock-street.
For Sale,
AThree-ftofy BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second ftraets, in which
MeUrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (-and
now do) carried on b-ufinefs.
PoffelEon will be given in one month, ot sooner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
. April 21.
»" A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
Z DRY GOODS.
-*• John Miller, jun & Co. ~
Exclufiye of their own Importation now opening, 3
Have received by the William Penn, Caroline and Diana —
CONSIGNMENTS, 5
. . Which comprize a capital assortment to open a —
to Dry Goods Store. ]
—Amongst them are— Tic
ce *- OI ) :nnon > super and luperfine Cloths, ticl
Plain, twill'd and ftrip'd Coatings,
Baizes and Flannels, or
- Point, duffil Blankets, am
f. Plain and jiuntea Caflimeres,
Swanfdowns, vat
Printed Calicoes, Tm
Scotch Threads, c rn ,
Hosiery. ; t - r
in They will be fold either in whole, ®rin part, by the as i
1 package, on terms which render them an obieift worthy of the
>r attention to jpurehafers. dtf OA. 21. the
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co. the
No. S, CHESNUT STREET,
Have Imported in the late vefTels from Europe, & c i
AKD HAVE lOR SALE, fold
A general assortment of GOODS, suitable to the season— afte
1 Tlsnan j whifh are, nun
r K narrow CLOTHS, drai
JJ Plain and twili'd COATINGS, the
Rose striped and noint BLANKETS. thc
FLANNELS/aud BMSEg,
HATS assorted in cafcs, r
IRISH LINENS, 3re
INDIA GOODS, generally, of 1
A Configncd Invoice of IRONMONGERY* mou
Comprising a capital assortment to open a store mclu- T
ring irty Calflfs of NAILS. This invoice will be fold the 1
entire on very advantageous terms. Hot<
September 20. » r
- »■ . — d- * lee
For Sale, ~ wL
hy Jehu Hollingfworth, & Co. j c<as
r e n ft i' Il ? ,a Ru "'' 3d aßd 4th proof, r
5 Barrels best Indigo, and, Cont
A few thousand buihel, of Turk's Island fait
Oift. 17. draw
Country Rum, th«ti!
And a few pipes of Vinegar,
For Sale by 6 ' r * § '
t? • Jamei
a , „ Ezekiel Hall. of Jo
wiaur or Edw 'o, s r' » !u - '• s » ih c,! '■"
— October 79. d
_At No. 63, N. Seventh-street, Thl
Four Gentlemen may be acc'om noda-ed with offi™
Hoarding and Lodging. p "
1 XMovcmbcr I» ® - warra
3 No
Robert Smith & Co.
' cet ' No. j;8, South Front-Jireet,
Have received hy the late arrivals frem London, Liver
pool, and Hifll, and hy the Ohi® arrived at N. York
from Glasgow,
A large & general assortment of Goods,
> » Suit/ibie for the Serfon., confjting of
Duffle, Point and Role Checks, in imall packages
Blankets Oznaburgs and BrownHol
(smid White. Red, ,-.nd Yellow lauds
:d*by Flannel Brown and white Ruflia
Socking ar.d other Baizes Sheetings
Second and .coai ie Gtoths Drillings Diapers • •
Plain and mixed Caflimeres Calicoes and Chintzes
Plain, twilled. uikT striped Jaconec and Book Muslins
Coatings Do. do. Tamboured
i ' Plains, Keffeys, and Half- Do. do. Handkerchiefs ,
the thicks Printed litven »nd check d». j
fare, White & fpottedSwan&ins Roma! and Madrafs'do. 1
i the Lainet and Iwanfdown vest Muslin 2nd Chintz Shawls
land, shapes Bed Ticks
oed- Carpets and Carpeting .Table Cloths
: are Calianncoes and Durants Laces and Edgings
rams Moreens and Taborcens Pafhionable Ribbons
■well Joans Spinning and Crapes Do. Hats and Bohnets
bl.s, Camblets and Wildberes Gotten & Worst-ed Hosiery
ione, Bonibaieens & Bomjbaz.ts Glovts and Mitts
:ach- Rattinets and Shalloon's White & coloured Threadt i
itely Plain, Genoa and printed Italian Sawing Silks
tage Velversts Sc Thicksets Ivory'and Horn Combs
con- 7"8, 4-4. and I j-S Cotton | Tapes, Bindings, Pins, &c.
have on hand a large affortraent of India Mtiflins
bigh an <i Calicoes, black coloured Perfiant, Bandanno and
1 the Pullicat Handkerchiefs, &c. and a quantity of Nutmegs
lan's 311 f - Mace.
nan : Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SjiLS,
1 Souchong
Hyson Skin /
Young Hyfbn FRESH TEAS
Hyfoa and \ _
Imjperui J
a ; n . Yellow Nankeens
por- .China Ware, afiorted in Boxes and Chests
\ Quiekfi! ver
i va _ BaHdaimo Handkerchiefs of excelldnt quality in
ver. chefl*
use, London Market MADErRA WINE
ider London particular in pipes, hogflieads, & ,
ige- New-York Market J quarter"cafijs
lec Teneiiffe Wine in pipes and hog&eads
; Sugar Candy by the Box 5
P e - Sail Canvas No. i a 8
na y Lead in fheirts J
3 Calks of Cutlery aflorted
A few chests of Marichcftcr Goods, aflorted.thick- '
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c. " J
3 Small packages of black fe\ying-filks
8 Tierccs Virginia Snake-root. q
Nails .'.ffoi ted in calks • g
July '8 mvSf 'V
. „ £
City cf Walhirrgtort. i
SCIIEM£ of the LOTTERY, No. 11, 6
fOK tM IMPMVf.HI.qi 0 J THE o
FEDERAL CITY.
- A magnificent ) so.cco dollars,.& 5
dwcUing-iioufe, j cafli 30,000, are j J°i oc K*
I ditto 15,000 &'cafli 25,000 40,000
i ditto 1 j ,OOO & cash 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 5c calh 10,00b 20,000
jut ? 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
ich 1 ditto !>°°° <Sc cash 5,000 10,000
W d 1 cash pri»e of 10,000
ado. 5,000 each, are • ip,ooo I
10 do. l,ovo - - 10,000
so d<>. 500 . 10,000 p,
I 00 do. ioq - * 10,000
_ I J '°° do. 50 10,000 C
4C-o do. 25 - 10,000 W
I 1,000 do. ao - jo, 000
I iJ>ooe do. 10 • » 150,00#
I 1^>7 39 Prizes.
33,261 Rlanis. T
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollan, 400,000 c
j N. B. Tofavour those who may take * quantity of
I Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will bethe last diawn
j ticket, and the 30,000 the last but out :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received sot
I any number not less than 30 tiekets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ereded in the City of Whfhington—
Two beautilul defi s ns are already feleded for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares ; frflm these prawings
it is proposed to ered two centre »nd four corner buildings J
lie ] as soon as poilible after this lottery is fold, and to convey
of j them, when complele, to the fortunate adventurers in
the manner defpribed in tlie fcheine for the Hotel Lottery - Th
- A nettdedudion of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of print,ng, the furplu.
r V ; iU b =. ma de a part of the fund'intended for the National A
University, to be a cited within the city ef Wafhirvnon
r will commence as soon a« the tickets are
fold off.--rhe: money prizes will be oayablt in thirty days A
- after it is fimlhed; and any pr zej for fortunate
j numbers are not produced within twelve months after the
idrawmgi,, dosed, are to be confidcred as given towards
the fun« for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole bufmefs in a year from the ending of the draw-
I mg\ and to take up the bonds given as security.
I 31 ll j cur,tie '" given for the payment of the Prizes
are held by the President and two Dirtflors of the Bank'
ot Columbia, and are valued at more than half the -1
j mount ot the lottery.
T ™ e ,tmy i° Ur ntlernen vl 'o l>7 appointment,of
I ij C /t Conulll "' oncrs afiifted in the managemen; of the By
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk
a second time oh behalf e f the public ; a fufficient nun.
ber of thefc l.aving kindlyaccepted.it is hoped'that the C
j friend* to a National University atid the other federal oh. to 1
Meets may continue to favor the design. the
By accounts received from the different parts of the S
Continent as Well as from Europe, where the tickets —
have been sent tor sale, the public are assured that the
drawing will speedily commence, and that the car. and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of S
th* tickets, has rendered the fhor- suspension indilpenlable c
st- i . , , SAMUEL BLODGET. ' '
,§. Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia • of
fTv, W u Ba,rimore > Peter Gilman, Boston •
of John Hopkins, Rickmond ; and of Richard Walls
| Cooper s Ferry. co
I ' iC
VVadiington Lottery.
-«» -
jsaaer L °"" r ■" —■«"V ««.
1
■- J —— r—^
Caution.
The following NOTES have fceen STOLEN from
iver- the subscriber, on the evening of the ;?tft t:!t. all ptr.-
L'ork sons are hereby forewarned from receiving the fame.
One, Robert Morris to John Nicholfon, dated March
ds, I 79Jr in d payable April 8, 1796, for dollars
823. 93-
a „ es And one John NichoHVj,h to Robert Morris, dated
rlol- atid payable as ab > ve, ami for the fume sum.
Tht ibove notes with other papers were contained in
uflia 1 a ©reen Morocco covered almausu k-, and Wire ftoleri
with aquintity of-cfothii.'g, from the piazza ofihefub
fcriber. The clothing eonfiited of one dr«b coloured
greatcoat), 1 do. cIof»- coat, 1 dark mixture do. 1 olive
flins mixture do. 1 brown lift morning eowti, 1 old Mack.
silk cloak, 1 ehitd's gie*t coat, coating, 1 do. cloak,
1 cloth.
d». ' A handsome reward will be given for the Packet
Book _ nfl papers, by
w!s ' James Todd,
No- 26, So. Front Street.
ntfa mo. id; drw.
Imported in the late arrivals from Europe ar.d tht
. , • Weji-Tndies,
Hollaiid Gin, in pipes
:a£U Choice St. Croix Sugar and Rum
Martinique Molaflis, in hogsheads
Choic'e old Lisbon Wine, in pipes and
cc- London Particular & London Market Madeira Xyiue]fP
® in pipes, half-pipes and quarttr-caiks
£n ~ Malmsey Madeira Win*, in pipes and quart«r-caiks
Teneriffe Wine, in p pes
— Russia & Flerni!a Sheeting and Ravens Duek, in cafej
Window Glafcj 3 by 10, in baxes
Coffee Mills and Stray? Knives, in casks
Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
A few cliefts of Bohe» Tea ; Jcfuits Bark ; AfTafe?*
tida arid Tapioca j and a few bales of Coffaes,
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna arid M'ujlin Handker
chiefs, and a complete affortcierU of Dr'4o
Bjulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers & Co.
111 Oflober 20 d2wm&t|i2m
: LANDING, - "
Out of different vejjels from. England, and for fait
by the fubjenhers on reafonahle terms,
Superfine and common cloths, and cafiimers
Ribbed and flriped do. do.
Blankets, mottled green and silk rugs.
Superfine blue, Claret, and common coatings,
, lierfeys, Bear-&ins, plains and Hnjfthicks,
c " Swanßcins, Serges and Flannels,
British Ingrain Carpeting,
Hatsaflorted in cases of 1 2 do?, each.
Chocolate chintzes, printed Catlicoes and Handkerchiefs.
Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
Yarn, Worded, and Cotton hosiery,
—. Beavers, Thickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. See.
BufTand drab Genoa Cords of 1 superior quality.
6d. Bd. lod I2d. 2od. nails, ar.d frying pans,
.1, An affortaicnt oflronmongerry, Cutlery and a variety
of India cotton, and silk gowds.
Thomas iff °Jcfhua F'tjher.
No. 5, Dock-fttrcct.
Also by the Glasgow from Dublin,
1-8 and 4-4 Irilh I.i'! or : s affortedin boxes of 30 pieces,
do. Brown, Glazed Linoen.
OS. 17. dl f.
Just Arrived,
By the Fly, Captain Huiber, from London, •
Double racked, Brown Stout Porter,
in hogsheads. 0 ,
Painter j' Colours, in t-a and t-4 cwt. kegs, packed ia
hogflieads.
Copperas in hogsheads.
Whiting, &c. For Sale by
Peter Blight.
October t Sr - dxttsaw.
1 he Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
pAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant a ß d Lif'
landing at; the fubferibers wharf-—
28 Pipes of Brandy
°f 18 Bales of Spanish wool
3 do. of Annifeed
7000 Bushels of best Lisbon Salt
■y 80 Boxes of Lemons *
31 For sale by WILLINGS & FRANCIS,
ii ALSO,
Seventy Hogsheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
re 11)111 JD ° min ' ck Terr >'' Ca P l - De Hart,
*, - Se °°' d
I Sales of India Goods.
Y : The Cargo of the ship Ganges, eapt. Tmgey, from Cal.
y cutta and Bengal^
'» CONSISTING OF
II A Lir S e a " d general afTortment of Bengal and Madras
■L X COTTON and SILK GOODS.
e ( AMONG WHICH ARE
'! A variety fine worked andplain Mu/lins,
g Doreas, b*c. Also,
A Quantity of Exce'hnt Sugar,
e In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER
For Sale by 1
Willings Francis,
- J Mngß No. 2! Penn Street.
f For Sale,
; By 7' WARDER, PARKER Iff Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
: Confißing of different sizes, from .1 inch cables down
' •?" 'u s ,f ifferen t lengths: Imported in
the ship Swift, .rom Hull, and entitled to drawback.
■
1 "— — '
For Sale,
Carolina Rice In whole and half tiefcts,
Cotton of Cayenne and Trinidad, '
Soal Leather, entitled to drawback,
Boston Beef, and
Mould and dipt candles.—Apply to
Ifaae Harvey, jun.
No.'s, South Water-flreet.
iQthmo.iy. d 3T y.
70,000 Pieces-Nankeens, N
Of the bejl quality and on reafonahle terms,
FOR SALE BT
Pkillp Nicklin y Cf.
August '-a 6. dtf
1*
Celebrated vSeiy Work- ■ s
Si This Day is Publiihed,
s, Ey JOHN ORMRCD, Mo. 41, in Chefnut Street, (four
r volumes in two, ncatiy bound and lettered, price 2
dollur.f and 50 cent*.)
THE LOOKER-ON,
A 'PERIODICAL PAPER.
"By the Rev. SIMON OLIVE-BRANCH, A. M.
Ore ttret medico Pallentes radere Meres
Dofti s, et ingenuo cidpam defigert ludo.
AUU pers.
My business in this State
Made one a Looker->on here in Viesna ;
Where I have Teen corruption boil and bubble, '
Till it o'er mn the flew ; lawa for ail faults ;
But faults so countenanc'd, that the llrcng ftatutrs
Stand like the forfeits in a barber's (hop,
As much m mock as mark.
Mei'jurt for Measure.
"I? appears from the dedication, that the editor-os this
publication,is the Rev. William Roberts, A. M r I'. R. S.
Follow of Corpus Chritki College, Oxford; and from the
lilt number, that the labor, au<] confcqut'iitiy the merit of
.hefe papers, hive reftedwith the editor, excepting only
'a few contributions particularly mentioned. "lhe editor's
dtfign has been, as he himfelf reprefeius it, " to f '1 ftitute
the forfaken topics of.-cnorality, life, iiature, ah :fte, 111
th room of Ihaflbw palitias and news-paper philosophy, and
t&betray men, under the rtiaikof amyfement, into serious
and manly thoughts, Thisdefigo was laudable, *nd the
execution was meritorious. As literary productions, these
periodical papers are entitled to difliniSion ; but their high
cfl. praise is, that they are throughout calculated to pro
mote virtue and good manners."
Analytical Review.
"Lately Publijhed by J. Ormrod,
fcondorcet on the prcgrefs of the human rtiind jfb,
Miss Williams' Letters from France, 4/8; Vilit for a
Week, </7 i-i j Brown on the natural equality of
men, ; Life of God in the Soul of Man, zfy ;
Aikin'S Letters to his Son. 9/4 J-z; -Homer's Iliad
by Pope, 2/6; Hiyky's Triumphs of Temper, with
plates, j/6 ; M'Ewen on the Types, j/7 l-t ; Select
Psalms and Hymns for Youth, 1/4 i-z; Surge's ce
lebrated Letter to the Duke of Bedford, if.o l-j:
Wharton's Answer to Priestly, 1/10 i-z ; VVatfon's
Answer to Paine, ify 1-1; Watson's Anl'wer to Gib
bon:- tfio i-»i Cullen's Praiftice, 3 vols, 30f\ Bay
ley on the Dock Feter of New-York, iffs, Webster's
Collection on the Yellow Fever, 7/6; Chaptal's Che
mrftry, .3 vols, in 1, 12/S; President's Addrcfs, nd;
Poem on do. sd. i-»; Britilh, Algerine and Spanilh
Treaties, ratified, 2/4 1-2 j Travels of Cyrus, French
and English, 7 vols. isf\ Win erbotham's History of
China, 1 vols. 15/; VVinterbotham's History of Chi
na, 2 vols, aa/6 —&e. Stc.
Nov. 1. d6t.
..11 . . • 1 ' ■
Sale by Au&ion.
Tobe fold on Saturday evening the sth of November, at
7 o'clock, P. M. at the Merchants' Coffee House.
TWO three (lory brick houses with convenient kitchcns
north fide of Mark«t/between Seventh andEighth-ftreets,
each house with the priviledge of an alley is Hi I-I feet
front ; the lot is 150 in depth
One two story brick house in Zaoe-ftreet, commonly
called Sugar alley. The house is 16 1-2 fe»t front, or. said
alley, with a good kitchen ; the lot is 90 feet in d*pth.
One vacant lot, adjoining the said house, in Zane-ftreet,
16 1-2 feet-front, and 90 feet deep; at the end of 90 feet
'the said lot widens tett, and runs back of the' Mir tie'
street lots II j feet, 33 feet wide.
One two story brick house and kitchen in Zane-fli eet];
16 1-2 feet front; the Jot 45 feat in depth.
45 acres of excellent meadow land in Greenwich,
which will be fold either by small parcels or t % acre lots,
jo tons of excellent upland hay. Enquire of
HENRY SECJCEL,
GEORGE COOPFR,
HENRY SHE AFF,
ABRAHAM WILT, or
EDWARD FOX, Audtibneff.
OAober 19.
For Sale,
This day Landing from on board the ship Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Amflerdam,
G\n, in pipes
< Smpty Gin Cases
Hock in eafds Of 4 dot.
Glass Tumblers in chests
"Sweet Oil in eases
PatteGraffe Cheese in boxes, trt.
Alp Landing by the Louisa, Capt. Bell, Jrom Lijbon,
60 Quarter-calks Liffcon Wine.;
On Hand,
A quantity of Brandy, Hazlc-Nuts in sacks, fee.
Peter Blight.
October 17. *iaw eo*w
IrifK Linens, &c. <
Imported per tie fhifs Clafgaw, from Dublin, Liber
ty, from Cork, and brig Mentor, from Belfaf,
4-4 and 7.8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In whole asd half boxes,
Assorted from ltd to 4s. sterling—Also j-4 wide
Sheetings, and low priced,yarn and worsted Hose.
On Hand,
7-8 Wide Lawns.
Diapers and Table-Cloths ••
A few boxesTickens and Checks
A few bales Flannels
Cork and Belfall Sail Cloth, Nos. 1 and 6
25 Boxes J r 6 by 8,
* Yo Ditto > Window Glass, < 7by 9,
5 Ditto 3 (_ .8 by 10.
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the
irawback, and will be liifpofed of by the packtge on
realonable terms.
James, Clibborn & Englifli,
No. 6, N. Front-flreet.
loih mo. isth. dtf
Juii Landing,
At South flrcet-nihirf from oh hoard the ship Sedg
ley, ('aptitir; Hodge, from St. Petersburg,
Thv following Goods
H'jffia Sail Duck, firff quality.
Do. Shi::ii:g da.
4)o. Dfap«rr. "—
Do. Huclsabaclt.
Do. Crattu
,Do. Mould Candles, 4, j and 6,>j the lb. of the
EngUh fixe.
'Do. White Canule Talltr.v.
Do- Whioc Sost> in small boxes.
Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
Ravens Duck.
liinglafi, tit aud |»nd fort.
Hone Hair uinnrkd.
-Rulfia Bsr IrOn.
Do. Hnop Iron.
Do. YC-il Rod..
10 Tons Oakum and Jtlnk.
St. i'c.crfburjj Hemp.
For Sale by
Philips, Craniond, & Go.
©A»b«rii.
-
GAiUTfi of ths Uni*i?d States.
phocion—No. xvr.
THE rotsrissof Mr. Jeffcrfon vainly ttuleavor
ed to vindicate his conduct refpefiing his connec
tion with the editor of the National Gazette and
hit opposition to the measures of government, while
secretary of state;
In re'fpe£t to the«fjrft they hid, '' that Mr. Fre
neau was recommended by leveral of his fellow col- ,
legiates, men of high reputation and who were m
terelted in his welfare*: and that, to entitle him
to the office which Mi. Jeffcrfon bellowed on him,
it was mefely necessary that he fhuulcj he » citizen :
of the United States, and irreproachable in point
of morality and in other tefpeflp quajihed to
difchargc iia duties."—lt is at rjpee seen thai, fnch
< an apology, to an enligh'eued publh-, is at insult
ing a, was lh« caitdtnil which it was designed to
. gloss over.' —As Vlt. Jcff.'tfon, (hould
he be elected pre'ridcnt, and penfio:i a printer to ]
i support his metfures, attempt hereafter to varnish <
over such an aby a like vindication. ]
At to the second point,'ihefc votaries, whose c
' devotion for their idol kindled at every form, in t
whith he presented himfelf, «ven deduced matter (
of panegyric from hit »ppo/ttion to the meafurcs of the 1
government. 'Twas according to them, the sub- t
limeft pitch of virtue in him, not only to have ex
tra-afTlcially embarrassed plans, otiginaling with his f
colleagues, in the course of their progreft, but to
have continued hit opposition to them, after they 1
had been considered and ennttcd by the legiDature, e
with such modifications as had appeared to them r
• proper, and had beenappro»ed by the chief magi- j
Urate. Such cottdu&, iu their, opinion, marked 6
a firm and virtuous, independence of spirit -j-.
If any proof were wanting of that strange per- *
verlion of all ideas of decorum and order, which J
hat long charaflerifed a certain party, this making a
a theme of encomium of what was truly a demon- 0
drat ion of a caballing, felf fujjicicnt, and refradory 1
temper, would afford it. p
I shall endeavour to state what coorfe a.firm and £
virtuous independence of character, guided by a
juii and necefTary sense oT decorum, should have
dictated to an »fficer in Mr. Jefferfon't station.
Ido not hesitate to reprobate the position, that /
a man, who had accepted an office in the executive
department, should be held to throw the weight of
his character into the feale, to-fuppiJrt a mealure,
which in his confcien'cc he difappreved, and in hit
Jiation had opposed—or that of the ad
miniltration ihould form together a clofeand secret
combination, into whose measures the profane eye
of the public should not pry. But there>is a very
obvious medium between aOing or countenancing, and {
intriguing and machinating against a measure ; be
tween obptjing it in the difchargc of an official duty or
volunteering an cppofiiion to it in the difchargc if no j
duty, between entering into a close and secret combi
nation wi h the other members ot the adminiilra- ''
tion, and bc:',j the aflive leader of an ofpofuitn to
its me furet.
The true line of propriety appears to be the, sol- j
lowing:—A member of the administration in one j
departmeut ought only to aid those meafWs of an-
other, which he approves—Where he difapsproves,
if called upon ton J officially, he ought to rnanifeft '
his difipprobation, and av»w his opposition ; but,
out of an official line, he ought not to interfere, r,
" at long at he think jit to coxtinvs a »art of
THE ADMINISTRATION." ,
When the measure in quettion has kecome a law °
of the land, especially with a dirtil fandhn of the r
chief magi/irate, it it hit peculiar duty to acquiesce.
A contrary conduct is incoyijtcnt with his rdationt P
at an officer of the government, and ivith a due rtfpeß '
as fuL h for the decisions of the legjflaturt and of the l
head of the executive department.
The success of every government, itt capacity F
tocoAabine the exertion of public Hrength with the '
preferyation of personal right and private security, j "
must nlways depend on the energy of the executive. I •
This energy, again, must materially depend on r
the l/nien aud mutual deference, which subsist between j
the member, of that department, and the confor. J
mity ef their conduit with the view* of the execu- "
•live ehief. , F
Difference of opinion between men engaged id •
any cafmmoo pursuit, i« a natural appendage of hu- '
man nature. When only exerted in the difehar", B f ®
a duty, with delicacy and temper, amon* libe.al j f
a*d feiifiblc men, it can create no anidotity : but
when it produces officious interferences, dictated by ' 3
no call of duty ; when it volunteert a display of it- ! '
felt in a quarter where -here is no refponjbilitj, it ! 1
must inevitably beget ill-humour and difcerd. ' 3
Applied to the membeni of the executive adrr.i- *
nitlratiop of any government, and wore particulaily | 1
a republican government, it mull necessarily tend to i f
occasion, more or less, difiraSed councils, to fofler
faaions in the community, and particularly to wta- "
ken the government,
.■loreover, of the several executive de- ■
partments, are ta be viewed as auxiliaries to the Cxe-
cutive chief. Oppofiiion to any measure of iu, by
■ either of those heads, except in the scape of frank; \
firm and independent advice to himfelf, is evidently
contrary to the relations, which fubfilt between the '
parties. And a measure becohles hit, so as to in- '
volver this duty of acquiesce, as well by its having '
received ha.fanßhn in the form »f a { aw> as b£ ]
having previously received his approbation.
One of the powers eiittulted to our chief ma»if- )
trate is, that of objetitng to bills which have piHed
tie two house. of congress. This supposes the 5
duty*f objea.ng, when he is of opinion that the !
oljeft ot any bill it either vnccnjlitutional or per- -
mciout. It* approbation of a bill implies, that he '
dou not thin.: it either the one or the other ; and it ,
makes him rejfonfible to the community for this o
p.mon. The measure become, hit by adoption; J
nor could he cfcipe a port ton of the blame, which
SX.. » bad measure, to !
which he had given his eonfent. (
Solid as are these printfipl,., the public ear has, !
not with ftawJmg, been frequently assailed with core- j
bT Dnj:bp ' of !
t tae fame, ot ieth Otft, »p lt
man piece a»<s platj&bi* foriO** a.iJ Ma
maiitw? agamtt tww. However fuA
may be ckxteroufly retailed by the traffickers iii
pular prejudice, these principles, foiftded on poli
tical truth, iidsv. with continence, be iubinitted to
the deliberate upiiiien of an enlightened and iober
j Pe 'l? may be a(k=d—What ?is a man to facnfice
: his ccnj'cnr.ce and his judgment to an crfTue > Is he ;
I to be a dumb fptftator of measures which he deems
1 fnb'vcrfiVi of the rights ar.d inter eft ot his fellow
'l citizens ? is he to poilpone to the frivolous rules of
a falfe comp'aifance, or the arbitrary'diclates of a
tyrannical decorum, the higher duty which he owes
to t'h« community ? I answer, no ! lie is to do none
' of tliefe thrnga. ' If he caiwot coalesce with thafc,
' with with whom he is alTociated, as far as the ru»es
of official decorum, propriety, and obligation may
require, without abandoning what he conceives to
be the true in'ereft of the community, 1« him place
iimfelf in a jituation, in which he will experience no
colli Hon of opposite duties. him not ciing Jo the
hooour or emoluments of an office, and content
himfelf with dtftnd'mg the injured right} of the peo
ple, by ekfeure or indirect meani. Let him renounce
aJstuntion which is a clog upon his patriorifm ; ted
the people that he could no longer continue in it
without forfeiting h« .duty to them, and that he
he had quitted it to btf (poic at liberty to. afford
them his belt terrice».
Such is the course wotrfd have been indicated by a
fircji and virtuous independence of character, that
would have been pursued by a man attentive to u
nite the sense of delicacy with the sense of duty—in
earned about the pernicious tendency of public
measures, and more felicitous to aft the difinterefied
friend of the people, than the inUreJled, ambitious,
and intriguing bead of a party,.
But Mr. Jefferfon clung for four years to the ho
nours and emoluments of office, Under an admini
!bation, whose measures he greatly disapproved,
and perfevinngly tppofed, till a more perplexed state
of affairs, and the alarming profpeS of approaching
•war, dictated his relinqui{hme»t of a (tation, too
pregnant with anxieties to continue an object of de
fere. PHOCION.
From the Virginia Hekaio.
As containing found, federal, republican principle?,
w* publish the following exfraft from aiv address
to Ralph Wormeley, Esq. a candidate far the
office of ele&or in Virginia.
ill. Is a candidate for an eleftorfliip warranted,
tinder in declaring publicly (he
names of the perfoss for wliom he fhdl vote !
2d. Can those, who have a legal right to vote |
for an elector, demand with constitutional proprie- <
ty, any declaration of this fort? 1
I am inclined t« decide in the negative. The 1
mode of voting by ballot is tfce.dirett antithefij of I
the mode of voting viva voee. The constitution I
expressly prefers the former to the latter. But you i
and your fellow candidates havfc fuperceded the for- ■
mer by introducing the Liter, and have thus depar- |
ted from the constitution, but without intending it,
I dar« fay. \\ hat avails jhe baUottmg for a Prefi- 1
dfjjtanxl Vic«-P*«fideirt, wheit-rvcry hody knows <
before the ticket* are put into the box,
fore the cleftors are chosen, for what perfen* each J
elector will votr. Is it not an idle form ? a ridi- <
culotis ceremony ? an uncouftitutioral facrifice ot j
fubltance to form ? Is it not to all intents and pur
poses a viva voce mode of balloting ? In the elcfti
on ot two luch important officers as the Preftdent
and Vice-Picfident of the United States, it wa«'a
fy to be forefetn that pe: fonal enmitiea woald be en-'
gendered, animosities excited, and vialent
contentions provoked, which alternately ter- ■ 1
rninate in civil commotions, and therefore, the vote
by ballot was preferred in order to guard as mucfi as
possible against those evils. Who that itcolleflsthc .
turbulent and sometimes bloody iccnes that tvere
once exhibited in the Polish Diet., but mnlt admire
the prudence of those who formed the confutation, <
» endeavouring to prevent an exhibition of fimilar
fcerits in this country ? Who that admires this pru
dence, but mult regret that tha conltitmion has ■
been evaded and defeated in this refped i But the i
peepk-, it is laid, are in fault ; they have required 1
the candidates to be explicit. The people who, to
inuuige perianal pre-poffeffions of any kind, can re
quelt bcandidate to aft unconflitutionaily, and the
. candidate who from pspular views, can prevail with
himlelf to grant fuel, a request, Me both equally
J and wofully deficient in feme of those attributes
whrch are molt effe.r.ial, under free governments, tli
j the cbaraflers of pure citizens. If the people claim
. as ngt/s those things to which they l,Wm> right,
not only wrong but wrong, must follow. Nor let
j it be imagined, as defining knaves and fools, who
. are au. «ys the to.k of knav.s, wo»ild have us be
lieve, that a demand for what is wrong, be'caufe it
u made by,<he many, is therefore right.
T hat which it is wife and jtjl to rcf.ft in a single
individual, it .s, a fotttori, more v.ife and' mare
joft to rel.lt ... ma, y individuals. This' p.inciple is
Emitted, ju the moral s y st em of all
repUJics, as a fut.iUmental truth. Soooer or'later
Ihopeu will be engraven on the heart of eve/y
inZT donc> cvci y
w. be forraidable—When it it , ' ' grtat ont
Wdl be Tie f„pl t i 3 lh , „ onder
woiting phrase wnh winch the demagogue, a„d
jacobins of the day attempt to efTeS all theirperni
cious fchewes—but yeu have too good an under-
Amdiog to be duped by it. You know ,hat the
people, ,» their sense of the phrase, is not the pec
S7J w r,°" haS lal '^ t U8 ' who peo
hlV 7 m " a W "° olhfr ' and ,hi *
tts dec'five veto upon the questions I hava dated.
b H fefn n r- 1?' " 0t mcn ', ftou ld govern us upon all,
exLeffed 7?r pUb '' C ° CCaf,ons - As J™ have
exprefTed yourlelt generally , a this efftd ;a5 you
wellTf ma '!, n " that d -°" y ° U Cred,t ' P^ nou Ld
tc C t^ P ; n^ r,V Upon thc P«n--
Ot L lyftem of admin.ftrnt.on adopted by our fcde
nimneli anj confcio.i. »,rn, c . d ur i llg a pCN i„ U i .
order and good governmcw, and to be honell in
dependent and federal; yt, u shall have the vote of
AiIiGUS FEDERALiS.
ii i .
« . PhiladelVHlA.
O «
| : o FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBES 4, t 7g6 / .
Extract of a Utter front Tr/aton, Nov. 3.
cc • I lend you the names of the Electors tor the ft.. ;
tie of New Jerfejr, this day chofin by the Legiflatu, t
ns b r a * cr r g rcat majority, men of the firft chauii,.
v . and ail good and true Federals.
0 f Col. Aaron Ogdcn, Elizabeth-Town.
a Col. John Neilfon, Brunfwick.
e , Gen. Elilha Lawrence, Monmouth county,
]C Caleb Newbold, Burlington county.
Col. Jonathan Rhea, Trenton.
cs John Blackwood, Gloucester county.
iy Capt. Willian Colefax, Bergen county.
;o —
ce r " Ames has declined "being elected a member
0 of the Haiufc of Repreientatives in the fiftn Con.
IC giefs. J. C. Jones, and H. G. Otis, bath Fe.
lt derahfts, and friends to the Government of thek owu
y. country are in nomination as candidates.
:t ~
il From the American Daily Advirlifer.
; t Mcflri. Clay poole,
e The right of Voting at Elections being one of '
j the molt important privileges of free citizens, ought
to be guarded „bufe with the molt i'ciupulotu
a je-tloufy ; and as the acts of naturalization arc not
t generally known, it may be of ul"e to publilh she
1. folio wng opinions on the fuLjcft, given by gen
n tlemen of the higlielt legal abilities, tor the intof
c malion of your tellow citizens.
d WE are dearly of opinion, that no foreign?* ha
ving tome into this couatry finer the declaration of
independence, is cutitled to a vote at & general e
lection, whatever may have been his length of.re
lidence', uniefs he has been natui ahzed according to
the exilting laws of Pennsylvania.
That the proper evidence of his having been na,
turalizcd prior to the 26th of March, 1790,' is a
certificate, from a magittrat,e,"crt->iis having wkea
the oath of affirmation of allegiancc to the State,
as prcfcribed by ljtv. r '
And that the proper <*i<Jence ®f naturalization
since Ihe i6lh of Maitfbjr- i 790, a certified copy
ot the record of the court where such person i.-a
, been naturalized, conformable to the a£u of Con
s grel's of the United States; . *
: , WILLIAM LEWIS.
aiguea, WILLIAM RAWLE. . 1
Nov. 3, 1796. •- . *
: 1 concur in opinion. J regret that I
am called upon h» iuddenly, that I have not an op
; portunity U» give the fealons of my opinion. I cou
. eeive that since the 26th of March, 1790, ait ate.
legislature caaudt dcteitniut what lhall cuiiHitute ci
< tizenfi-.ip. Ido not'know of any aft By which the .
f legislature oi Pennsylvania have uodertaken tocon
-1 dilute citizerfhip : a proviio in an ail of the 13th
1 Marfch, 1789, )eavt» the qutftion to the eoiiflitution
—with that conftitufioit rfii| clause ccafed to o
. perate. . ,
lt is not revived Ly the Schedule to t!fe jjrefent
conftiuttion, becatife not a fubttanti>< gcL be
; caule inconhltent with thepicfcut emillitutk.ii.
. X have not time myfelffarthcr, itUre
./ore foljcorgenerally," nor do 1 conceive" tljst yuy
doubt can Eie t et»tertaiucd epon'tiH sub»
jea. , • ...
Signed. JARED INGERSOLL; . .
3> " V 1
etit itvNicjrioHs. ■
— *
A correfpondtnt rcmatkß that the Tc-gßUicatiolli
r «t this juncture of the treaty of Pavis 8c -'-filuit jf,"H
with a jesuitical emph'atizcd preface, in ♦Ll|i.uiE
, Brewn's and BacheVpapers, sis
: ture of the politics of tho'fc Gaiwtei, and ot th< 'V
r whiffling ctmrafter of the compiler article..''
; The We on the public, iff loading co'ub.hs
, of those papers with documents of that natytt, lias-*
r. rent the flimzey veil of blank impartiality, anKv l'i "
. at a future day, feive' to exhibit in prjipru;
s a, certain cuddling proteu* politician, who Y
: himfelf c»ndenln«d to the Sifyphian task ro
1 up hill a stone that will perpetually rccoil upon him „
> to tlie end of hia pilgrimage." "• . •*—
— . . '•'»
: Amongst the wicked a d ridiculous tritks : now'A ? J
1 playing off by the Jacobins, to enfore tst
r their ticket, th|y have the, impudence to citi ftiefrs"
5 the republiean ticket, and the federal ticket tire mo- -
> narcby ticket : Who that cKatafters'of
1 the candidates can forbear langhuig at fuJJ" folly '.
, In»lt»okirg over the, names of .isfcARL VVhelim fc
: Thomas Mc. Kean, which Ihould we be moll apt . .
1 to consider as plair.fimfit republican ov foe haugb- . *
- ty imperious- monarchiji ? is there any tititcn lu lg- :4J
t norant as to suspect Israel Wbelen, and the other
candidates on the federal ticket, of voting for a mo.
t narchy man ? For fhamr, ye diforganiztrs^—blu^k
j at such vteak'atttmpts to impose on the JUab'lrc-*
s they are'not to be duped by fueh tricks : AlUyoiir
{ calumnies will never perluadethem that ltmcj \Vhe» /
r len and Co. will vote for a king. TKe peopic can
/ rtad as »tl( as ypurfelves, and can take .
1 liberties without your afnilance., • «^j|
r «
j Do the jacobins suppose that eleftioneeving and
. publiftiing is to be all on one f<k/ Who pay ior
■ by tijgin ? Wh<) T
. tuik ? Who lent expicfles all over the coui.try with
. calumnies and talfehoods ? •
——
b fCR THE GAZETTE OP THE UNITED STATES.
- —. < ■**' j
> Ma. Fenn6, - *
- I observe that the adJrofs of the [duties, recon#
l met)ding thtrirttcket, is to be tranjlatcd tn'° Frent\; ,
1 but that appears unneceflary, for Ijcm the
- andJkle, every plain man SHio lead* .it ns®** ° c
- Vinced that it was originally aniptjtd tlx' F::ihh
1 language I wilb some of your Flinch Qonc(popw.-Y.
i dent* would inform me what tljele t Anties
, ! a it is a foreigii>wo<d we' country
- j unflerlland wiih in ftituje they
I intelligible language. , V
I A Plain JmerkA^fK^« i
0f ' 1
AT i romeroßt meefinpnf eitizentof HiiWelpttia, htld on (
November s, at Mr Poor's fckooj
btiulf. ,-onth Mulberiy Ward, ISRAEL ISRAEL was
called to the chair.
* The two t kett for eleAora of the Prefidrnt and Vke-Pre
fldent of the UnHed*statei, which have been pubkfhed in the
papers, having been read, the at a meeting
n member* of-the Stale and Federal Legifhufre and other
ciiizcn* from different parta of the State) having been stated
to be composed of chaia&ert who would Support >Thomas ]
Jj»l*a»ON, waa UNANIMOUSLY agreed >•«
JsrrFßsoif Ticket.
ELECTORS.
Thomas M'Ktan John Whitehilt g
Jacob Morgan William Irwin C(
James Boyd Abraham Smith «
Jonas Hartzell William Brown 0
Peter Muhlenberg John Piper },
Joseph SJifter John Smilie
William M*Clajr James Ed jar f c
James Hjiijna U|
Publifhtd bx order of the Meeting,
(Attest) BENJ. FRANKLIN BACHE, See.
At a meeting of a number of ci:iren«, at Og
den's Uivern, New-market ward, Oftobet 39, 1796.
The two tickets for ele&ors, which have been pub
lished in th« news-papers, were read, and it was una- 31
nimooffy agreed to support the following as a truely | "
Federal and Republican Ticket>
The fame having been framed and recommended r a
at a refpeftable meeting of a number of the mem- i
ber» of the legislature, and other citizens, the friends
of order and good government, from different parti
of the "date, immediately previous to the rising of {
the a (Terribly, viz.
Jfrael Whelen, Philadelphia,
Samuel Miles, I
| £0
Henty Wynkoop v Bucks,
John Arndt, Northampton,
Valentine Eckhart, Betks, I t |,
Tftiomas Bull, Chester, ' J j-
Robert Coleman, Lancaster, J WJ
JohTi Carson, Dauphin, 1
William Wilfoa, Northumberland, j||
1 Samael Cumberland, [)n
Jacob Hay, York, I
Benjamin Elliixt, Huntingdon, tw
Ephraim Douglas, Fayette,
John Waodfc, Allegheny, I
"Thomas Stokely, Washington. [Ie
O* motion Itj was resolved, that the following gr
address to tHocitizens of Penrffylvania, be signed
by tht chairman And published. ■ jda
• " Fellovj- Cit I
At a period. when the peculiar situation of our I an '
coustiy calls far no copmoa {hare of wifaofn, pa- I
triotifm and firmnefs in the chief magtftrate of the I 011
United' States, are we fitmffioned to the choice of I nui
eleAors of a. President aad yice-Piefidcnt, and on
ithe piudeiiee of that choice, will in a great mea- j
sure depend our future p. ace and happiness. Whilrt j .
the defohtting sword ef War is destroying the fait
eft countries in Ear ope—America is,kept in peace.
The wife and prudent fyfteai of policy, adopted by ei
cur present adaiini(lr«uon> di'fpelled the ciottds 0131
.whiftli for a while darkened our political horizon, I
»ud'fecutfd to, our country profperiiy and happiness,
ytc arc now fa-.'ereumiuc, wh«iji«r r approving j e Al*
ef the meaiWrs adopted by George brtjhingioa, aud *
fenftfeleof the bleißngs they hdv«. confer red on- our J
L. coantry, we will.choose elefiors Who have uniform- e "^ l
!y e*inc'ed an approbation of his cohd*f£t, and may I nna
£ "therefore be 'expeded to give theirYufFtages jn fa 1
| Var of men who wifl probably continue the fame
»; " system of wife and patriotic policy.—lf /uch. be Ia K'
> our determination, the person* now recommended 1 < -
will naturally become the obje£g of our choice. COMi
To the prudence of those republican cititens, fin I for
;cere!y attached our national goyernroent, we maty 1
(afely cntruft the power of making ap_pointmejitß I
10 important and interesting.
Sj „WiJh no defjre of dilating to par fellow-citi- * '
tens, and with no interest but what is common to "
,jll, Jo we iddrtfs you. The happiness of our coun-1 S 9r ' s
try is involved in the choice that (hall be made, and f£ d ,
j * • we therefore solicit your warded exertions in iup- beso
; P«rt ot characters whose fuffrages witl ensure the ortie
' 'fence and profpenty as the United States ac "
GI.tDRGE LA ' tMER, Chairman.
HV- Atfell \ JOSEPH HOPKINSON, Sec'v. eleav
far. Printer, ■
'»'►> Voyr inserting the incfofed acruffie in your enter-j
' Gazette, will very mfith oblige
• *• a female friend. ,
R* eHirn onee more and bless our ravifh'd fight, lin "
I nfpire our fouls with ever new- delight ; '
,C harm os igaJo—• with more than magic art, f Sam
K now that you captivate each female heart.
~L ' lc haEtiflg youth, »ijr throbbing bofomi prove, f
'rr u '' ;5n S , * la ' t °f those who fondly love. I an
■ T hen ah return, dear youth, and with thee bring j C<
° nly f [° m thy P refelK ' e f P ri "g- Gent
retcrftjurg, Virginia, Sept. 15.
• by THIS DAY'S MAILS. £;
RUTLANDi (Vermont) October 74. . J
Tfee honorable Moses Robinson, late fenater in sth o
: ' slate In congress, on Saturday the 15th inft. 'he t
communicated tq the goven><»r, the following refig. O r
nation of. that important office [claim
D „ , the ot
' Xut/atd, oHoler 15, 1796. Admi
„ Dcarr,r >. , tobri
Kavjrg received an appointment to the office of pers a
a .tnator of the United States, it was my intention capto
/ to have lerved lb< whole term for which I was eleo the ill
ted ; but the ciicumftances of my domestic affairs- and tl
are such, as reader it wholly incompatible with" ei- th.ey <
ther my interest or duty, any longer to h.old that was '
ofiice. . • duced
1 therefore take this method to communicate to Do
• the fegiflature, from whom 1 received the appoint- and
meat, a resignation of fa'id office. However defir-1 ca P tor
»ble popular applause may be, yet the consciousness
of having aded with integrity, and from the purest TCc
principles of love of our country, affords a confo- -
iatio* highly t«r he pteferred. nut tti
The /lie fuffrages of my fellow-citizens, for s
rubber of years past, gave me an opportunity to
express my attachment to their interest j and be as- 'j r
fused, fir, that a just feufe of my obligation to Grey
my ccanjry,' {5 too deeply impressed on my mind have d
1
e!d po ever to be ess. ccd or t(5 be in indifferent fpeftator
f its profpeijty or misfortunes.
I am, dear sir r with refpeft,
e - Pre - and sentiments of high cfteem,
,n ? hc Your excellency'smolLobedient
an d v e f y {rumble servant,
ft«ed MOSES ROBINSON.
omas His excellency 7'homes Chittenden.
Hereafter there can be no question as to the fede
lalifm of the state of Vermont.'
On Ttiefday last, the general afferably of this
slate, chose the hon. Isaac Tichbnor, senator to
congress, in the room of Mr. Robinson, tefigned.
Mr. Tichenor is eleiled to serve at the next session
of congiefs, and foi the fix years succeeding, and
has accepted his appointment.
The legislature of Vermont cboofe the drifters
for that slate. That they will be true fedetalifts is
undoubted.
EC " NEW-YORKTNavcmber 2 ,
0 Legislature of New-Tori. '
g Yesterday, both hcufes of the legislature coh- 1
vened at the City-hall, in this city, agieeably t® 1
jna at 'j our " rricrft - There being a quorum present in 1
n»-lv 1 cac ' l ' 10u^e » ,h «y proceeded to oreanife their refpcc- '
7 live houses. <
Guilian Verplanrk was appointed fpeajcer, and 1
det * j James Van Ingen, clerk.
el j" j Robert Hunter was re-chosen matter at arms. 1
n 8 Ihe usual mutual commuuications were had be- '
art * I tween the two houses and the executive.
. 0 At half past ene, his excellency the governor
J appeared on the floor of the great courtroom, both
J hooles being present, and ftiade his fpcech at the op- t
j ening of the felTion- f
November 3, y
I Yesterday, the assembly went into cornmlttee of
j the whole houle oif his excellency the governor's c
I speech, Mr. Barker in the chair, when the speech c
I was read, and commutes appointed, by diftitift re- t
1 fclutions, to take into 9eniideration the different f
I dirtinti articles in said speech refpefiively, and re- c
port thereon to the house. 1
J A nteffage was received from the senate, with rt
I two tefolut(onß, requeuing the concurrence ef she t<
I assembly, viz. h
I. Resolved, that the two honfes will, cm Wed- ri
I tiefday next, proceed to cleft a senator in th« c«n- r '
I grefsof the United States, in the place of Mr. King. ;
Bed 2, Resolved, that the two .houses will, on'l'ucf
day next) proceed to the cle&tonof elc&ors, on the
the part of this state, for the election of Prefideut
dui j lee P'efident of the United States.
pa- I JS&ics Kent, esq. i; appointed to pronounce an
the I oratlon before the Agricultural focicty, a!; their an- w
o rj nud meeting on Tuefdajr next. pt
on I ——— j
{ . a . j TRENTON, November 1. ' v
Hit I TueTday last beinjg the day appointed by the con- "ff
ili. I littition, for the meeting of the legislature of dc
:e. I a quotum of both houses accordingly ;ifk-m- ; '
by bled at the State-house, in this city. Tht l auivtil 0 '
lds made choice of James Linn, esq. as vice-ptefident*} (h
>n, j 2n d John Bealty, efq clerk, the affemhly, of Jartts , P JI
fs, I' r, ' 3 y» a* speaker, and MafkclVEwing, trc
.g cf l- clark - i>
ud ln j° lnt meeting, last Friday, Richard Howell,
ur J was re-appointed governor of this (late, for the p
i». I cfmig year, and James Mott, esq. trealuicr, koth
a y j ananimoufly.
■a- A bill is before the assembly, for ending free
riC schools throughout this slate, to be fupp.med by
be
: ,j J One Godlip received lentence of death at the lafl> F"
c comt of oyer and terminer, in Sufi'ex county, for
n J for the nsurdcr of his wife. He was executed co IV '
,>■ Friday last. 'a;
ts h 7
WINCHESTER, Oftobev »8. fhc
Extratl of a Letter from a gentleman in Maryland to hit cor- hat
I reipondent here. ry
to | '' We have had a very warmly contested eleftiou in Ha- .
H- ja r fowti. Sp—g, with #11 his influence, supported Ring-' a j|
, gold, as an artti treaty man, against a plain, honed German. fS/
He it a fpmted young fellow, and supported himfelf with a Jn
p- beeonnnc digrtty. He publicly avowed himlelf a friend to J
IC order "4 1 g"od govermtient, and to that Great Man who, by * UI
a certain party, hat been so much insulted and vilified. The '
. young mao wat fuppotedhy the Gernrant, hiatt.unchfrieadt, j
it- —who, v. hen they Mndetftood the qatare of the difputc, .
cleaved to htm as one man For, being a plai*, sensible pen- la s?
pie, and finding themfelveshapjfy and thrivingunder the Dre- .to
I U """tlifhmcnt, they did not Jviih to rua the rifli of a
J change."
r-1 — _ « the
AMERICAN CLAIMS.. y
lln the High Court of Admiraltj. Sir Jamec Mar riot,
J
Sarmiel Bayard, agent of the United States, &c in ma
behalf tf Messrs. John and Thomas Stephens and er '
i Israel Thorndtke, citizens of the Un.ted States, mo
and owners of the schooner Relief and cargo, Asa W
; I Cole, mailer:—Claimants—against a "°
General Sir Charles Grey and Admiral Sir Jphn Su
• • Jarvis. joyi
. .^ clief was « n American vessel seized by '
the Britifn forces at Martinique fhortiy after the ba d
J capture of that island. On the iptho* April 1 enci
ffie was libelled in a pretended Court of Adrni/alty P«m
J at Martinique by the captors. On the
, sth of May the vessel and cargo were fold, and on as a
, the 14th they were condemned. ar ;
. On the a Bth of Feb. 1795, Mr. Bayard filed his h
claim in the High Court of Admiralty on behalf of grar
the owners; and a monition thereupon issued against Had
I Admiral Jarvis and General Grey, dircding them 0 f n
.t0 bnh « the registry of the court the ship's pa- ,S tat
pers ana ail depositions taken in preparatory. The F
captors, though a year had elapsed from the time of ,i,° r
tlie ifluing of the monition, brought in no Papers • / ■
1V 1 , f jf kin S' s adv 'ocate and proctor admitted, that
tKey did not expect to bring in any. The cause ! , 8
was therefore heard on the ex pane evidence pro- ,
duee<j by the claimants. t»w 3
a n^fwS Ch °c a " d for the claimants, thr "
and btr Will,am bcott, the king's advocate fcr the M
I captors. treat
Or. the 2 d of Feb. i 7969 6 Sir James Marriot deli- bivi "
1 vered his opinion as follows: obtai
■?'" ce ,h . e kin S' s advocate and proctor both ad- of «■
mn that there is no profpeft 0 f shortly, if at all, «cif<
' dlemS an >' f urt her papers re- F'
fpeflirg these American vtffels seized at Martinique, "to ;
.fef" 11 ' r^ 8 vcflcl to be one of tliofe seized that I
and f o ld by persons under the orders of Sir Charles Oiail
Jf n J arvis ' " the claimants A
have done all in /Wpower to have the lhips papers tion,
1^
, ' •• / / /
%sin« of a decree which had foi a rhofner t fw/fjended rf r 'i
Y ere <!>e now rh-iofca to consider it as working umqualt 4 '
, r * and a^ftrt3 that a the iCafon Lr.'its thraate.icJ via
-1 and laioi.
The executive dire&ory, (taking a very differenf
U 'tid f f rom '' lf Apolojfill fn the Aurora,) ll.itt-s
nt"of ,lle . , f , » violation, to reil " Oil t lit detriment
VSJ. France rfiay receive from the advantage#
duty W * MC * l '"adby her treaty faureJ to the United
yto Stau '»-"
grie ' aw °f furnilhes ntr juftification of
lain- 'he kind ; the books, on the contrary, fay, «' that
In " f " e '"jury a nation may tujlmrt from a treat}', is
rourt " not a reafori for such nation to refuse
fully " complying with ih conditions,"
0 di- Mat-tan's, law of nat'or.Sj p £2.
but "Real treat tea never cease to be (..Minatory, ax*
to in cept in cases where all treaties becortie invalid.
: e " Id' p- 55-
lem- " The maritime powert hawe begun to iftue Jt
new cuiraliofts to advertise the neutralpowcis, that they
nfti- shall look upon lush and such merchandizes as con
pur traband £ but the effed)s of these declarations can* -
} a\e n«t by any means be extended to those neutral pow
™s j er6, vii/h which the towers that iflue them have
.are treaties of commerce f in which this matter. Is
'ok SETT \ E6/> . Id. p. 321. .
re _ " tJne of ths parties has not a right to swerve
, 2VC f rom a trcar 7' other wife valid and obligatory, except
in ea,r °' * collili or>, or in 1J1*: of all i»fra£lioa
" s by tht other."
iear '
it is , Id. p. £{..
_ Bcfides, I' ranee, herfelf previous to her ireaty.
ttle W !?*' ld a ' w »7> eXefcifed the fame tight, a»
and re^u tln S f ron > ibe hw of nations, by feiasing enemy'#
red P ro P erl y ' n neutral bottoms, where not secured by
treaty., (See Marine Ordinances, under the ar
tbe prise.) •
the And at the very moment that flie complains of
*t 0 theexercif* of this right on the part of Great-BriV
he tain, she has made a pra3ical comment 011 the law#
this of nations, in this rcfpe£l by feiiing enemy's pro
ses. perty, s»s_n on neutui tsrritory ;in the caf«
pa- of. the seizing of Britifli property at Leghorn:
fr ) I Hus we fee that before and subsequent to her
ley commercial treaty with the Unitej States, she has
u - prhilised upon the fame principle which she fee«n»
' a low disposed to force the United States into a War
to cotiipet England to renounce*
== 7 hc f° r<; gy'ng remarks, and the authorities
which have bfen jeferred t.o* leave np ropm for
doubt in the mind of every independent American,
that if the threat of the French government (hall
be carried into execution, the United States will
he ||» ve . learnt a new leffou in- politics—that the jnoit
fill hbetal, sincere and faithful obfervanet of
«« the mod generous conHru&ion of the laws of neuf
° n ti*lity, I,ay, even an cxpofure to danger, -by mea
nt. Tfr not warranted either by our tteaty of the lsw»
a ot neu;iality, arc noi sufficient to r«nat«th< friend
-I't ship of that nation and to preferTe inviolate her fti-
J-'X pulations when the feels from a momentary in r
id- whrvb she had fully cqtiicmplatsd at tlyt
re- time they weir made.
AN UNSHACKLED AMERICAN,
This Day is PubiiQied,
. f* r the -Author, /price jr cents)
and rL N °' 6? ' High-ltr^
•' s and by the other Eookfellcrs in the City,
TIT for TAT,
Or, A Purge, for a PHI.
oi Being an answer to a fcurril out pimpll |et, lately put*
id lilhed, entit ed, " A Pill for Poreupinc."'
y. To which is added,
n A roetical Rhapsody on the Times,
D ejcribing the Difaflers of an Emigrant.
s, To bear an open slander is a curse,
SI " But not to an anfvrcf it a worse."
3t "Ihi» you get, Booby Squirt, ' '
" U«»ufe you wou 'd dialler 1
" Since you're for Hinging din,
IU " We'" 'ry who beil can fpatier." •
C - \Pnd,U
d E2EKIEL FREEMAN,
. FPJ 1 *? f " cce , edcd t0 the diflillery in New-fireet,
ins o dby Mr Thomis Cav *
informs the public he has for sale,
" an Rum, Gin, Brandy, 13e.
All persons having any demands upon the said difliU
d f Cry r°l j ndebtcd thereto are tequefled to apply to him
d pose nt ' k eil 'S du 'y authorized tor that pur
-0 Ph'lldelphia, Nov. 4 th, 1796. dtf
r i t> be Let,
.A 1 " 8 ®,® 41 !"' lnW,,aut -ftreetjuftibove Fourth-Street that
e ,We inCh « d -»> How -ptardToS
° fc.aodtwf«rn/ nd Co " c^ ho «fr .that will hold f ou rhor
leiand tw d c»rna g e» j and several Horc in Fourth Streee—
1 Apply to
rTT , , George Meade.
Who has for sale,
•5 boxes of Castile soap
\ Red Lilbon Wine
A few pipei of bill of exchange wint
. A tew barrels ot Irilh rtiefs beef
| And a^ew barrel* of ship bread.
' glass engraverT^
MtjS. DiESCAinrs, from Paris.
' North TL the / ÜbUC x that fte ha " J ust °P e,led her (lore,
North Third Street, No. 95, where Ae engraves with
border,, flowers, garlands, cyphers, figuret, efcmche
°ns, &c. m the moll elegant, fafhionable, ueat. and
M° rt6 0 glifics> lnd glaft wares on the
most reasonable terms. All order, will b c thankfullr
received and punAuaily executed.
tJl^ie?^" 1111 " eXeCUte ' a " y thikg In ,he I!ne of *
Nov. 2.
tuR sale; *—;*
w ™ out 1 >60° acres of Land,
1. o Uat , td ' la >j n g on and between Marfk
four P ' C ° Un( y> P'nnfylvania, in
eparate Patents. For terms of sale apply to
Wm.- Blackburn,
oaoher 31. No ' 6 Ssuth Srt ' ond ;' irsct >
— ■ ■ J - mwttf
NANKEENS, ..
Of the firfl quality, FOR SALE BY,.
R'D. and J.AS. POTTER.
b T, "" f '" R d IT',: * "
( September %, * . T. iV- FO R SAL E,
fv An elegant HOUSE, No. 78, Walnut
llreet;
WHICH is 25 feet front, by 171 feet deep, with a y
lot adjoining, 20 1-2 feet wide, by 72 feet 8 inches 1 m
<lc:p. (This lot is back of the house occupied by
George Willing, Esq.) The house is completely finifh- J n
ed in every Tt is 50 feet deep, has two afore
Urge p rlours, the front one 24 feet, the back one is
• 22 feet, by 18 1-2 feet, a handforoe drawing-room,
14 1-2 feet by 24 feet Th« ruora< below, the draw- r ; ver
i'jg-room and the chambers adjoining, have mahogany Q eor
doors, and these as well as the rooms above them have
a communication with each other. The height in the -
fifft and second llory is 12 feet, and have ftoco cor- r j V( , r
nices, and nine rooms up flairs, besides the garrets, q col
which arc divided into three rooms, a good kitchen,
ash-house, fnilk and bathing-houses, a lirge ice
house, a pump, hi the yard, and a 3 feet .3 inch alley,
that leads into Fourth-flreet, The cellars are laid with
lir.ie, and floored with two inch plank, apd plaflered.
The yard is well paved,, and the house .is clear ot
ground rent. All the rooms have bells in them, and *-aro
the thanjber bells ring in the garre:, as well as in the
down stairs. All the chambers have white tiles, In
e*iTpt the one neat to the drawing room, which has 1
a* vndUs the dra.wing.room and the two parlours be
~m marble chii.Miey piccqj.. The drawipg-room, the pj
two parlours beli>w, and the entry, are papered up to
the third story: In the room oyer the kitchen is ail
open (love. In the wash room there is an oven, and 2
the btck buildings, from cellar, all the way up f orn ,
btivtf large clolVts, and In the cellar is a large bottle y ca y
rack, a wine store is taken off of the cellar, and three c h a f,
bins to hold bottled liquor are made in laid room poui
with padlocks to them; ihe whole eellar and tht cock- requ
Toft ire as well plallertd as any room in the houie. the (
ll". flio'nf, the house is in every retneiit completely finilh- at 6
ed." Priffeffiorl shall be gis\ nin ten days after the house Cox.
is fold. Two brick llables in Walnut-street, with 'Bay;
two coach houles. one of them will hold two carri- of!A
ages, the other one. The smallest able has room for albg
tljree, and the lafgeft for four horfts. It is is 21 feet P a y
frout on Walnut-llreet by 50 feet, 3 inches deep. 1 hey tn 6
Tiave excellent lofts over them. The building is arched J
ind laid with lime and t*yo-inch plank, and the cellars ®
will-hokl about locf pipes of wine: Is clear of ground y .
rent, and has the privilege of an 11 1-2 feet alley, that
leads into Fifth-ftrcet. Also a brick store, 33 feet front
on Four'h-Ilreet, by 30 feet deep, which might at a cre( j
fma|l,ejtpeßCt beturned intoa handfomedwelling house tou ,
having been so contrived inthe bnilding. It has a yard ; n j
48 feet (1 inches wide, by 24 feet deep, has a rain wa- q oX
ter pump! and rtlier conveniences, and the cellar is laid ; tvv
with two inch plank, and is how rented at 40 dollars t rifl
per month. 'I his building is fubjeel to ( ground rent of evei
11 dollars 3-4 per annum. Theftore and stables I would I
give immediate possession of. GKOUGE MEADE, and
No. 78,' Walnut Street. the)
Terms of payment for the foregoing property, viz.—-
16301. may lay one year certain, after the sale and if p
the interest is regularly paid, that humane, worthy,good,
»Bd friendly fcian, Edward Sties, Esq. fays it may lay
as.long as the purehafcr pie'afes (purely he lays to oblige
me) the interest being regularly pan w h<
48001. to be paid in a; proved note , and approved in- the
Jorfers at J2 months, the remainder in approved notes in t
and approved inddrfers, at ij, IX, and 24 mon hs, the Fidl
property tobeYbcured for the payment. The ftablesmay for;
be p aid for «n like manner, and the (fore too. all but 4000 dan
dollars, which mull be paid in an approved note, and ap
proved indo.rfcr, at 6 months, the whole payable with j
ipterefl.
' Oft. ig. - dx.
./Co hr. Sold, a°e C
AT PUBLIC VENDUE.
Or. T'hurfday the 6th day of April next, at 1Z o'clock. an<
(it Dcughtrtyh tavern, in the town of Itinche/ler, ler,
in Virginia, the following lands, fituute in the [aid 101
fate, «,/*. 1 %
No. 1.—430 Acres, j ,
Of excellent land on the waters of fiack-creek, ins
Frederick county, on the great rVr leading to the ve ,
Seuth Branch, ten miles from Wincheller, too the
acres of which is rich bottom, a fine ftrejm running
through it, with several springs, the trees in the bottom
are chiefly sugar maple, black walnut, hickory andio
cuft. There is dwelling and out-houles, some
ra 4 adow made, and 40 acre? of upland cleared. On
this tract there is a gcod mill-feat, where an under- arc
Ihot-mill might be erefled. '4'
No. 2. —800 Acres.
Situate in Hampshire county, on the north branch f.
ef the Potownmck, and on a branch called Cabbin-run, ln
about eight miles from Fort Cumberland. On this
trail is a large quantity of rich bottom, fit for mtadow
or the culture pfh«mp, the upland remarkably good,
being chiefly timbered with walnut and hickory. The
■above trail is in two surveys of 400 acres each. aj
| No. 3. —200 Acres.
Situate in Franklin county, about ten mi!e6 from
Winchefler. On this tracl there is a dwelling house
and part of the laud is cleared, the remainder is finely T
timbered. - » "
No. 4. —A Lot of Ground. T.
In the town of Woodflock, Shanandoah county, cil
whereorf is erefled a Iwo flory house, and other im
provements, and a ten acre lot for the convuiiency of da
laid town lot. w
No. 5 —250 Acres. m
Situate about two miles from Woodllock. Part of M
this tra£l is in cultivation, is finely timbered, and a good
quantity c'f meadow may be made.
No. 6 —4091 Acres.
Situate in Hampshire county, on George Ai\drs's mill t y
run, on a branch of the Cafaprhon. I his trail is finely
timbered, there is good bottom land, which might be
tafily converted into meadow. p
No. 7. —One moiety oP 50QO Acres.
f.ying an the waters »f Hughes's river, in Harrifon a.
eotinty. Tli's was purchased at one quarter of a dol- h
lar above 8 yeai« ago. t
NiJ. 8.--^}1,900 Acres. a
Lying in the counties ot Wythe, Waihington, and
Grayfon (the preattp part in Wythe,) on the waters 1
of Cripple creek and Fox creek, branches of New Hi- r
vtr, and on the'foutb iork ot Holftein.
No. 10,000 Acres.
Lying in ihe couhty of Ha«ly,onthewa'ersof Great t
Cacapion and North River. v m f
The ;erms of pay.'nest will be one third part ps the i
purcl-afe mon?) to te pal.; ;n hand atthetimeof ex
•cruting the dtcti or deeds of convey a- ce, the remaining -
two thirds ip be paid in equal iti;Ulments, at 12, 18,
- and montl'.s thereafter Iceuring those payments by
mortgaging the premises.
Slioalrl any jvi lon wifli to purchafc at private sale,
appi—aion may be made to John Aolker, Esq. near
Winchrflier ; David Holmes, Esq. of Winchester j or '
v by letters, (poll paid,) to the fubfcribcr in Ph.ladel- '
i'.hia, being the owner of said lands, who will perioral
iy attend the sale oft the day abr^ementioned.
George Meade.
Philadelphia, 2<i of November 1796.
diw w&JiMdfA.
To be Sold,
60,400 Acres of Land*
1 Lying on the river Alleghany, in the county of Nor
-5 thumberland, inthe State of Pennsylvania. gjj]
{ 400 Acres Land,
In Bald Eagle town (hip, Northumberland county
f aforefaid. VVhl
s 60,000 Acres Land,
' Lying on the waters of the Oconee and Canouchee
rivers, in the couuty of Walhington, in thtt Hate ot '
y Georgia. Di
e 174,000 Acres Land, Di
c Lying on the waters of the OhcJpee and Canouchee T .
rivers, in the county of Montgomery, in. the Hate 01 d;
'* Georgia. Di
'• 31.033 Acres Land, M
Lvine in Orangeburgh diftnil, in the state of South Sil
? Carolina. And,
Hj.6,986 Acres Land,
,1 Lying in Charleston diftria, in the'fjud state of South M
j Carolina.
e An Half-acre Lot of Grond, t —
5, In tl* town of Richmond, Virginia.
is The above Lands will be fold low.—App.y to J^ (
i- George Meade.
,e Philadelphia, ad November 1796.' diw w&stf.
:o ' -
d The Creditors of Scott and M L Michael,
P formerly merchants of this city, and who failed in the Jy
le year 1763, or 1.764, (ani from whom the iubfenber pur-
- e chafed bills of exchange -to amount «f several hundred
rH pounds flerling, whjch have lain by hiiji ever lince,; are JjgJ
k- requeftcd, e'verv wan of them that is living, to meet at £
"e. the City-Tavtrn on Tuesday, the 15th of November next,
b- at 6 o'clock in the evening, in order to oblige Charles y
fe Cox, formerly of this city, now of New-Jersey, and John C
th Bayard, formerly*f said city, and speaker of the House C
•j. of AlTembly «f said state, now of Bruufwick, New-Jersey, 5
or aflignees offaid Scott & M'Michael, to-come forward aad g
Pt pay over the monies they have had in their haiids belong
tng to the creditors these 32 or 33 years. Some years a
J.\ go the creditors were called together ; Mr. Cox appear- JV
ed in behalf of himfelf and Mr. Bayard, and alleged that
they were apprehenfivc they might be brought into troti- p
_ bie if they parted with the money (which I apprehend is &
1 some thousands,) as his BritannicMajefly had ;» debt due
Bt him for government bills: it was however agreed by the .
5 creditors met, thit the assignees Ihould take the opinion of
lfe counsel; they did so, and it was that thiy w.uld be fafe
fd i n dividing the money among the I urged Mr.
a " Cox to bring the bufirtefs to a final close ; his answer was,
'id it would be but a trifling sum; nay reply was, if ever so _ 0
irs trifling, I would have my proportion of it. It has how- -
of ever lain over.
lid 1 therefore hope the creditors will now come forward
E. and oblige the afligntes to divide whatever they have, and
they onglit to pay interefl too. At 1
— George Meade.
jf Philadelphia," ad November, 1796. dtljN- I
Con
ge The creditors of the late Abel fames, 0 f \
who stopped payment in 17841 arc riquclled to raeet at ted
in- the Cicy-Tavern, on Tuesday, Bth November, at 6 o'clock ordt
tes in the evening, in order to oblige the affigneei, (John of I
he Field and others) to close their affairs: My demand is lin 1
lay for a balance due on a returntd bill of 10001. ilerling, colls, fide
00 damages and interest. t°r
ip- George Meade. mel
ith Philadelyhia; Navtmber 2d, 1793. dtBN.
~~~~ one
_ The Creditors of Van Vleck and Barton, m»
and William Barton, & Co. (who failed in the year 1784) —
are earncllly requelled to maet at the City-1 avern, on
Wednesday the 9th November, at 6 o'clock ln the evening |
in order to oblige the surviving assignees, StepheH Aullin, ,
and Andrew Hodge to close those affaits. John Chand- £ or
!er, ' ler, deceased, who was one of the aflignees, once offered g an
a iJ to the fubicriber ufb in the pound for his debt, which is w j t
1 for a returned bill of 8000 guilders, with colls damages j
and and the aflignees have never paid but i/"io the mo
pound, thotigh they advertised goods belonging to William mo
m S Barton & Co. in the year 1784 or 1785, and allowed » j
the : ver y the liberty of buying to the amount of 10/ in (
'00 , the pound of their debts. ——
in s George Meade.
°' a Philadelphia, November ad, 1796. dtgN.
On The Creditors of Clement Biddle & Co.
ler- are requcftcd to meet at the City-Tavern on Monday the ,
14th inft in order to oblige the assignees to a fettlemcpt —
ef thcii affairs, which have lain over these twelve yc-Jfi':
nc j l the fhhfcriber's demandis for a returned bill of i,oool. flef
ling, damages 40 per cent, and interest.
this George Meade. ~
low Philadelphia, 3d November, 1796. dti4N. *•
>od,
Fhe The foregoing advertisements are a good Jpecimen of Ar
ajjignees. I could give a further one if it <was necessary.
'tfe Samuel Richardet ° -
nely "O ESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
f*- Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in &e Lc
nty, city of Philadelphia. te
im- The Suhfcription Room will be furnifhed with all the
y of daily papers published in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- '°
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial cities of Europe—They will 'be regularly filed ~
• t o £ and none permitted to be taken awav on any account.
, Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, a variety
»°° of French Liquors; together with the usual refrelhments, he
will at all times be procured at the bar. O
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with or
mill the choicell of Winet, Spirituous Liquors, fnd the mofl be
inely approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries, w
bt be The Larder will be supplied with the prime and earliell lo
productions of the Season.' ta
Large and finall Farties, or single Gehtlemen, may be '
rifon accommodated with Breakfalls, Dinners, or Suppers, at te
1 dol- hours moll convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is J* 1
regularly kept for convenieUcy, the Billof Fare to be had /
at tha bar.
an( j The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and r|
' the utmost attention paid to cleanlinefa, and every other 1,
, j' 3 re.quiflte. , r(
' Simuei. Richardet will behappyto receive, and u
execote the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
■ 1 ; 'Cat himfelf that nothing on his part fliall be wanting to pre
fervethat patronage wjth which he hasbeen so distinguish- '
if the ingly honored.
if ex- Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
lining —~— * • . *
'3, Mr. FRANCIS,
nub y • {Of the New Theatre)
" sale T AKES t ' l ' S °PP ortun ' t y °f returning thanks to his i
near scholars and to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca
ladc-1- tm y for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
■Vonif fl Jtters himfelf. tliat his attention to his pupils hi
' therto renders any promises of condudlmg his future
fehemes ou the nvilt liberal and flriOeft terms, of pro- '
'• priety, totally u<nieceffary.
A. B. Private tuition as ufytl.
\*A. June 3 law
'* *
Wm. Holdernesse, No. 76, I
HIGH-STREET, n * U
Has received by the late arrivals,
A IVell Selected Assortment 0/
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
, Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, the very
low eft terms; anJ a
A*tons ft lobich are nhlet
Some elegant 4-4 7*B Chintzes and Cottons, new P.^
patterns J"
Ditto Furniture ditto
Ditto Dimity '
Tamboured, Book, and Jaconet Muslins
Ditto in Gold and Silvei T^O
Ditto Necl&joths, very fine » H
Mantuas of the firft quality '
Silk and Cotton Hosiery '
Umbrellas of the firft quality, assorted
lrifli Linens, very fine, and Table Lir.e.is 1
Marseilles and Cotten Counterpanes i
Rose Blankets afforted—&c. Sec. S
OiSlobir 46. 30
(FT D &
London Particular IVladeira Wine, *000
In pipes, hogtheads and quarter-calks, ■
Landing this day at Chrfnut-ftreet Wharf, an
for fait? by 4018
Jofepk Anthony h Co.
Nov. I. d By
- uig I
Best Bolton & Nova-Scotia Mackarel, enon
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbls. to re]
47 bbls. prime QolFee, in th
Best Boston Beef, in th
Codfifh in hds.
Spermaceti Candles, nl , y
Spermaceti, and 1 OIL. fou'h
Northern J . ets n
Meuld and dipt, tallow candles, of a fupenor D;
qirtlity. ,
A few boxes excellent brown soap,
' 6 Bales of Corks.
[ 40 Pipes excellent Lilbon Wine.
c A few sacks of Feathers.
! A few bales India Mufliju. V
FOR SALE BY
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
' Oflober 31.
■ ■ two 1
Loft Last Evening, I torn;
At Ricketts's Amphitheatre, (supposed to be taken by
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
Containirtg"about lßj dollars in banknotes; three notes
5 of handofßofsand Simfon, No. 304, 305 and 306, da
t ted Ilth last August, payable 60 das s after date, to the
k order of Paul giemen, together for 51 jo dollars ; an ord«r
n of Mrs, Ann Vacpherfon, from Paul Siemen, on Lach
is lin Mac Neal, Efq.at Port-au-Prince, for 100 dollars ;/be
s, fides several letters andpapers of no use but to the proprie
tor. The notes of hand and order are without endorse
ment. EIGHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to
any person who will dii'eover and secure the thief, and
lORTY. DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
oned notes and papers at No. 149, corner of Front and
Mulberry streets. ( d Oct. ir.
■ Mr. RICKETTS ~ thc ,
S BEGS leave to inform the Ladies and Gentlemen, that
j l ' he will open his RIDING SCHOOL on the Ift of Nov. no ti
for the inftru&ion of Ladies and Gentlemen in the ele- Si
gant accompliftment of riding and managing their horses d
18 with ease to themselves. tht
es Mr. Ricketts has well tiained Horses for the accom
1C modation of Ladies and Gentlemen for exercise, to pay
monthly. Pupils to pay by the season, or by the lesson.
Horses trained to the road or field.
10 O&eber 24. d
To be Sold,
The Time of a smart, a&ive Negro Lad, c
Who has Eleven years to serve. ~
Enquire at No. 58, South Front-flreet.
ae OtJlober 18. «
P.t —— x .
THIS DAY,,PUBLISHED, \
*• By J. ORMROD, No. 4 r, Chcfnut-ftreet, „ m
(Price I a i-% Cents) f u j r
The President's Address'
To the People of the United States, <Jay
°f Announcing his intention of retiring from public life aft<
7- at the expiration of the prsfent conHitutionaFterm of Pj<
_ prciidcncy. ' , r Ril
v| September 20. 4 i lin
2 —__ ; — at
fn Walhington Lottery. Pic
fY The 34th and 35th vys* drawing of the Walhington
Lottery, No. 2, received at the office No. 134, Mar
ket-street, where ticket* may be examined. *>M
h e N. B. lnlormation £iven where tickets in all the other t0
of. lotteries may be procured.
m . November 3, 1796. d
led ; m <
STOP THE THIEVES!!! £
LAST Wednesday Evening, Q6tober 19, between the be
'ts, haurj ot 7 and 10 o'clock, the bed 100 mof Mr Ricketts in
O'Kller's hotel wli emered, either bv means of falfe keys, j O ,
ith orat the window, by some villain or villains, who mud have
10ft been acquainted win the fixation of the house (as the door
ies. was found locked after they had committad thc theft) who
ieit took away from amongst Teveral trunks, ONE which con
taiued a valuable part ef Mr. Rrckett's property, but of which
j, c he is not yet able to Ihe contents particularly. Af
,at ter bringing the faio nunk away, and emptying it of up
-lis w ? r ds of a thousand dollars in cafli and bank notes, the vil
laint left it behind thc circus, during the time that the per
formances of the evening were going forward
ar.d Itiscarneftly requested, that all tavern-keepers on the stage th
her roarls ' an 4 tlle ferry houses, as well as allcivil officers, may so
be watchfjl in iecuring perfotis, who may have a tr
redundance of calh, which their appearance wuuld by no ac
arKl means bespeak them to be poffelTed of. at
jg" One Hundred Dollars Reward P'
pre- w ill be given for securing the thief or thieves, and a fur
lifh- ther reward f or securing them with the property. ri
OS. et- j. tf
r f ■ b
— Univerlity of Pennsylvania, f ;
ORober J, 1796. \
The Medical Ledlures will commence the firft Monday c
> his in No « mter - uw 3 w
nds,
«•- Madeira Wine.
Rle -
1 hi- , ——
ture A few pipes of Madeira Wine, landing from on I
pro- °° ar d the schooner Lucy, Capt. Prows, at Chefnut
ftreet whir-t, and for sale by the fubferiber.
Robert Andrews,
I*w Oft. 14 m*. No. 86, S o. Wharves.
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,,
theNoRTHSRN Liberties and diftria of
Southwark ,
Published, and fold by
BEN JAMIN D J VIES,
No. 68, High street,
( Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 16 inches square, and has been en
graved by one of the tirft artists in the city, from a late
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam
phlet with each plan, giving " lbme account of the
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
July 19 tu&ftf
Lottery
FOR raising fixthoufand fix hundred and sixty-seven
dollars and fifty cent», by a deduction of fifteen per
centfromthc prizes, and not two blanks toa prize. via,
I Prize of 5000 dollars is dollars 50c®
I 1000 1000
i 500 500
5 aoo xoco
10 100 aSoo
99 jo 49S°
100 5000
1000 10 40,000
5 Lafl dfawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000
»33» Prizes. 44,450
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,4 JO
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftablifh
uig U'J'eful Manufactures, the fuperiutendauts of the Pat
eri'on Lottery hive the Managers to offer the
foregoing Ssheme to the public, and have directed them
to refund the money to thtil'e persons who have purchased
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for tickets
in this Lottery.
The lottery has actually commenced drawing, and will
continue until finifhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes
may be fcen at the office of William Blackburn, No. 64
south Second street, who will giveinformatiou where tick
ets may be procured.
Dated this 17 th day bf June, 1796.
J. N GUMMING, ")
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, S- Managers.
JONATHAN RHEA, )
dtf eo
Washington Canal Lottery,
No. I.
WHEREAS the State erf Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thouiand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Washington, fro>.i th Po
tomacto theEafteru Branch Haroour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
'Viz -I Prize of 30,000 dollars, 10,000
I ditto ro,ooo 10,000
TiSStS"}
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
jo ditto 400 4,000
ao ditto 100 1,0*50
55 ditto 50 1,750
5 7jo ditto II 69,008
To be raised for thi Canal, ,16,150 j
, 5850 Prizes, 175,-^0
11650 Blanks, not two to a pVize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 1-75,00p
rfj' The Commissioners hav» taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid aiS for the punctual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
■ delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold,-of which timely
• notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
' drawing is finifhed, shall be considered as relinquished for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J - NOTLEY YOUNG,
r DANIEL CARROLL, o/D.
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
WM.M. DUNCANSQN,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY. >
} City of Wa(hir>g'_ofi, Feb. 11. 5
Treasury Department,
September 28, 1796.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be re
ceived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury
until the expiration of the firft day of March next cn
fuing, for tliefupply of all. rations which may he required
for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both,
days inclunve, at the places and within the diftriils h-re-
Fe after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; at
as Pjcfque l£!e; at Sanduiky Lake, and on Sandufky
River; at Detroit ; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank
lin; at Pittsburgh ; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton ;
- at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-JcfFerfon ;at Grenville; at
PicqueTown and Loramies Store; at Fort Adams; at
)n Fort Wayne; at Fort Defiance ;at any place bdow Fort
r _ Defiance on the Miami River to Lake Eric; at Fort
Steuben ; at FortMaffac ; at any place from Fort Maffac
er to the south boundary of the United States on the river
Miffifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
If Supplies (hall be required for any poftsor places not
_ mentioned in this notice, all such supplies (hall be-fur
nifeed at prices proportioned to those to be paid as the
posts before recited, or as may be hereafter agreed on
he between the United States and the Contractor.
The rations to be fupplicd are to coufift of the fol
>"a> lowing articles, viz.
lve One pound two ounces df bread or flour.
One pound two ounces of beef, or fourteen ounces of
' ° pork or bacon.
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiskey.
(•_ One quart and half a pint of fait.")
ip . Two quarts of Vinegar, ( hundred ration ,
ril. I wo pounds of Soap, ( r
cr _ One pound of Candles, J
Therationsare to be furniflied in such quantities, as that
age there fliall at all times during the said term, be fufficietit
lay for the consumption of the troops at Michilimackinac, De
e a troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, fer the term bf fix months in
no advance, and at each of the other posts, for the terra o
at lead three months in advance, in good and whclefome
proviiions, if the fame feall be required. It is to be un
ur. derftood, that the Contra&or is to be at the extents
riik of iffuirgthe fuppliss to the troops at each poll, an-,
th&c all losses sustained by the depredations of an enemy, c?i
. by means of the troops of the United States, shall be pai
for at the price of ; the-articles captured or dellroyed,° fl
the depositions of two or more persons of creditable l >•
ra&ers, and the certificate of a ccmmiffioncd officer, -
certaining the circumstances of the lot's, and the r.niou*£
of th« articles for which compensation (hall beclaimedj
— OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the T"reafury.
on PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
lilt- XT
119 —
CHESNBT-STREET.
ves. [Price Fight Dollars per Annum.)