i I • 1 - •. - .. . '
of the Bntf eu J§>tate.s ? Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
Nvmbex 1256-] ... ' SATUR DAT EVENING, OCTOBER 22, 1796. JJOLOMB X.
—• 1 t t-* r~i 1 t\ n a riTm /* to n •.< -n\ 1 t?v im t-»
Landing this day,
From on board the Brig Caroline, at Chefnut-flreet
wharf,
FORTY PIPES
London proof Holland Gin.
I'or Sale bj
Joseph Anthmy & Co.
October 2T.
Best Boston & Nova-Scotia Mackarel,
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bbls.
4.7 bh!». prime Coffee,
UeU.Boilon !secf,
Cndfifh in hds.
SperrtiHceti Cant'fe*,
Spermaceti, and J OIL
Northern J t
Mould and dipt, tallow candles, of a superior
quality.
A few boxes excellent brown soap, and
A few bales India Muslins.
FOR SALE BY
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
O£lober 21. X dx |
. !
* Printed Calicoes.
JOHN MILLER, jun. h CO.
Have received per the William Pcitn/ in addition to
their own pfTorment,
A consignment of twenty trunks of Calicoes, ele
gant London patterns ; also a few cases of handsome
Buttons —Which will be fold at a short credit, on very
reasonable terms, by the package only.
1 o<st. 14. dtf j
Madeira Wine.
A few pipes of Madeira Wine, landing from on
hoard the fchobner Lucy, Capt. Prows, at Chcfnut
ftreet wharf, and for sale by the fnbfcriber.
Robert Andrews,
Oft. 14. mwf No. 86, So. Wharves
For Sale,
30 Hoglheads of choice New-England
Rum,
Landing'frsmthefehooner John, at Vanuxem's wharf.—
For terms apply to No. 71, North Water Street, at the
head of the wharf.
Oft. 3. . dtf.
~ For Freight or Charter,
O-i The Ihip COMMERCE,
NATHANIEL CUR*TIS, Matter.
Almoftanew vefTe!, 244 tons burthen, and will
rea dy to receive a cargo in a few days. For
tertns apply on noara at Blight's wharf, or to
Joseph Anthony & Co.
For Sale on hoard the above Vfffelj
A quantity of excellent COAL.
OhT Pcifoaiijpvinj gooJi on board, are earjiettly requeu
ed to fend their permit*.
Otfobcrzi. diot
jr* FOR SALE,
l&lslok 7HE SHIP MART,
SAMUEL PARKER, Raster,
two hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, (he will take
freight for Hamburg. Apply is above.
OtSober 2i. diot
For Boston, Newbury-Port and Ports
mouth, New-Hampshire,
■ The Schooner LUCY,
I *"* an ' e ' Prowfe, matter; will fail in
| course of a week, and take freight
moderate terms, for which, or
passage, apply on board, or to
joseph Anthony, Co.
Oiftobef rj. dx
For Norfolk,
1,1 jree Dr f our days)
The brig Zephyr,
Captain Hinchman; lying at LandenbergVs.wharf—
She has cxeeNent accommodations for passengers For
which or freight, apply to the captain on board, or to
Samuel Breck, jun.
No. 89, South fhird-ftree't:
Where may be had
A quantity of N. E. Rum, Sherry Wine
in quarter-talks,
Sail Cloth, Nos. 1 and-2, and a few hundred pieces
of Bandanna Handkerchiefs.
Oflober 30. 6
The Brig MART,
Lying at M-flrs. Willings and Francis's
wharf,burthen 2000 barrels,built in Philadelphia in 1793
of live o.ik and red cedar.—She is well found, and may
befentto Tea at a small expeHct. l"or terms apply to
- Gurney sff Smith.
° a - 6 ; dtf.
JT* FOR LONDON,
'^' le ca P ,ta ' ffiip" CE~R.ES,
C 0 s oon : — For freight or palTage
to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or
John Vaughan,
September io. Front-street.
• iT"'* For Charter,
D 3 "'" l Barque BewfTENTuw,
* Samuel Stub, mailer,
®35ci58564»A good of about two hundred
tons burthen. JESSE & ROBERT WAI.N.
Sept. 17. dtf
i'or Charier,
S The Ship Dominici Terry,
Jaco!b Do Hart, maftpr • an excellent 1
j<effcl, of about 3000 barrels burthen.
JeJfe ly Robert Wain.
September ai. d
For Sale,
}reet Th'u day Landing from on board the Jhip Concord,
Captain Thompson, from Atnjierdam,
Gin, in pipes
' Empty Gin Cases
Hock in cases of 4 doz.
Glass Tumblers in chcft»
» Su'rct Oil in cafe.
Patte Gra/Te Chcefe in boxes, 53"c.
, Also Landing by the Lonifn, Capt. Belt, from Lisbon,
-I 5 60 Qnarter-caflcs Lifaon Wiije.]
On Mar*,'., ,
A quaulity-cf Brandy, Haclc Nuts in lacks, &e.
Peter Blight.
October 17. dzw eolw
This Day is Published,
By William Cobbett, opposite Chr'ft-Church,
Ail Answer to Paine's Rights of Man,
r,cr By R. Makenzie, Esq. of Edinburgh.
To which is added,
A Letter to Citizen Swanwick,
By Peter Porcupine.
The whole is dedicated to Doflor Joseph Prieftl?y,
, Fello vst the Royal Society of London, Chizen of
America, and Deputy ElecYto the National Conven- .
tion of France.
Ofl. iß.' ••
On Sa.urday, the 12nd instant, at 6 o'clpck in the
evening, will be fold by Public Vendue, at the City
to Tavern, (it not befbre difpofctl of, at private sale) "
An Elegant H»ufe, No. 78,
In IVnlnut flreet; J
ime , WHICH is twenty-five feet front by one hundred and
ery seventy-one feet deep, with a lot attpmaag, 10 1-2 feet
wide by 72 feet 8 inches deep—(This lot is back of the
__ house cccupied by George Willijig, Esq.) The house is
completely finilhed in every reipcS. It'is fifty feefdaep,'
has two large psrlonrs, rlic front,<rnc Tq back —
one ai feet by 18 1-2 feet; a .handfeme
24 1 -feet by 24 feet. Therootris below, the drawing
on room and chambers adjoining, have mahdgany doors,
lU '" and thufe, as well as the rooms abeve them, luve a com-,
raunication with each other. Tiic heighth in the firil aad
second llories is twelve feet, and have floco cornices, and
ve3 nine rooms'up-ftairs. befidet the garrets, which are divid
— ed into three rooms: a good kitchen, walh-hflufe, milk
and bathing-hoafes, a large ice-hoilfe, a pump in the yard,
, and a three leet three inch alley that lends into Fourth-
Ilreet. Ihc cellars are laid withlime, and floored with
two inch plank, and plafter'ed. I'he yard is well paved '
and the houl'e is clear of ground-rent. Two brick ltabjcs
the in Wainut-UJcet, with two coach-houses, one of them will
hold two carriages the other one. The smallest ftiblc' hasl
room for three, the largest for four horfjs. It is 21 feet
— front on Walnut-street, by 30 fact 3' inches deep. Vhey
have excellent lofts over them. The building is arched
|T al,d laid with l&W a nd two inch plant, and will hold _
' about one hundred pipes of wine ; is clear of gromyd
rent, and has the privilege of an u and 1-2 feet alley
that leads into Fifth-ftreet.
'° r Alfa, a large, Brick Store, 33 feet front on Fourth- h<
street, by 50 feet deep, wbich might, at a small expeuee, O
0. be turned into a handsome dwelling house, having been or
so contrived in the building. It has a yard, 48 feet 6 bt
inches deep, by 24 feet wide ; has a rain water pump, w
and other conveniences, and the cellar is hid with two 10
inch j»utnk, ana it, novV rented at 40 dollars per month.
This building is fubjsa to a ground-rent' of 113.4 dollars .
per annum. Purchalers before the sale >nay apply to
the fubferiber, GEORGE MEADE,
Or R. FOOTMAN, & Co. Auctioneers. so
Conditions of sale ate—cn the House and Lot in Walnur
?.ieet 163® pounds on mortgage to be paid, this sum upon , 0
1 .lythgthe interelt regularly, may lay for one yar certain, k c
jA(i tor a furthertinie 011 the parties ajrefting. ,
4800 Pounds on the firft of Augutl, ijp7; the remain- ra
der of the putfhafe money will be uken in approved inaor
-1(6 fed notes at 6, gi and 12 months.
On the Store in Fourth-street, pounds, ten shillings,
due 7th November 17^6; the remainder in approved indorled 1,1
notes at 6, 9 and 12 Vnonths,'with security on the premilcs
!l» till the whole is paid.
October 14.
The Members of the Society of the Sons of St. George
eflablilhed at Philadelphia, for the advice andaiTiftance of
'n Englilhmen in diSrcls, arc rcquefted to attend a quarterly
ht meeting of the said Society on Monday the 24th inft. at
or one o'clock P. M. at the City Tavern.—Tht members are
requeued to be punctual in.their attendance, as the rules
and regulations of the Society are to be considered.
A. Humphreys, Sec'ry.
Oct. 14, 1796. —
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alicant and Lif- T1
_ bon, landing at th»fubfcribers wharf—
28 Pipes of Brandy
18 Bales oi Spanifli wool J
' 3 do. of Anhifeed
7000 Bulhels of best Lisbon Salt , ,
80 Boxes of Lemons
For sale by WILLINGS * FRANCIS.
:e ALSO,
Seventy liogfheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS,
cs received by the Ihip Dominick Terfr, Capt. Be Hart,
from Kingston. -
1.3. d
Just Import'Ld,
Tin Plates in boxes
Sheet and bar Lead 1
i's Shot—all ftzes, patent and o.immen
3 Copper bottoms and fheeta,
ty Engliih Ihoes ahd boots iri.- J ~&:t
Taunton Ale in calks of 1/ dez. each v
Balket Salt >
Wool Cards j;
_ Gob! Watches.
For fiale by
r Simon Walker, E'
O-t. 7- mwfim ( . "- - Pock-street A.
or F6r Sale, w
By J. WARDf.R, PARKER Co. Y(
_ An Invoice of Cordage,
Confilling of different sizes, from t2 inch cables down Al
to rope of » inche*, of different lengths: Imported in
the finp Swift, .roij; Hull, and entitled to'drawbacK S
> Sept. 27. «(f Di
e d FOR SALE, k!
By N. and J. PKAZIER, . A
_ »>''Front-.lreet,
Prime Boftov barrels. —
Georgia Cotton. .
Carolina P-ice and Indigo.
Sherry aivd Teneriffe Wi»es, of excellent quality.
Ravens puck.
n Indio BF*dann6*s. '
Sewing~ilks, various colours.
C and Glirrahs.
I 7" tt!4W, ""j
For Sale,
d, By Jehu £*f Co.
115 hhds. Wefolndia Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
5 Barrels heft Indigo,- affd,
A few thousand bufheis of Turk's lfland fait.
Oft 17. d.
IrifiK Linens, &c.
%mpot%'d per the Jhtps Giajgrtv-. from Dublin, Liber
ty, 36 **» Cork, and 'b<ig Mentor, from Be/fhjfl,
•4-4 arid 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In whole and half boxes,
Afiorted from lid. to 4s. ftcrling—Alio 5-4 wide
— 1 Sheitirigs, and low priced yarn and worsted Hose.
On Hand,
7-£ Wide L'awns.
1, Diapers andTable-Cloths
A few boxctTickens and Checks
A few bales fianpcls
Cork and Beifait S*il Cloth, Nos. I and 6 1
IS Boxes "J C 6by 8,
10 Ditto > Window Glass, < 7 by 9,
y> 5 Ditto J C ? by 10.
ot The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the '
ti- drawback, and'will be difpofed.of by the package on
reasonable terms. !
_ James, Clibborn & English, !
ie No. 6, N. Front-street. <
, v loth mo. io'th. dtf '
J j
Just Landing, j
At South Jlrect-wharf from oh Icard the Jhip Scdg- '
id I'y, Captain HoJgs, from St. Pcterfiurg, [
ct The following Goods : i
" RtifTu Sail Dsck, firft quality. I
Do. Sheeting do. I
k n °- P' ' 4
Do. Huckaback.
r _ Do Cralh. , 0
' Do. Mould Candles, 4, 5 and 6, to the lb. of the
,1 Engltfli Czc.
j' 80. White Candle Tallow. (
Do- White Soap in small bores.
I Do. Cordage of fine yarn.
j. Ravens Duck.
[ lfinglafs, Ift and and fort.
I Horse.Hair uncyrkd.
Russia Bar Iron. T
I Do. Hoop Iron. J
s Do. Nail Roilb.
U ,10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
s : St. Petersburg Clean Hemp: r
t. For Sale by . w a
1 Philips, Cramond, & Co. I
1 ,051obcr.il. 0
1 i —
; , STOP THE THIEVES!!!
LAST Wedncfday Evening, O&oher 19, tier ween the
hours of 7 and 10 the bed room of Mr Ricketts in
? O'Eller's hotel was entered/ either by means of falfe key*,
j orat the. window, by fom? villain or villains; who mud have
been with the fit nation of the house (as the door r
was found lockfrd after they bad Committed the theft) who
' too.k away from aropngft fever at trucks, ONE which con-'
t_.; < ' at v.ihohle part rf Mr. Ricketi's property, but of which
he not yet able to a r c:rtain the contents particularly. At-i
5 ter blinking the said trunk a way, and emptying it of up.
* wards of a ihoufand dollars iu cash and bank notes, the vi 1- •
lains left it b"ehin<s tftecircus, during the time that the per- a
formances of the evening were forward*
It isearoeftly rcqueftcd, that all tavern-keepers on the flage
1 roads,, and the feijry as ; well as all civil officers, may
> be watchful injecu.ing fufpiclous perfcuis, who"may luve a c
redundanre of cash, which their appearance would by no
means befpfak ihem to-'be 'pofTtflTcd of. «
One Hundred Dollars Reward c
Will be given for the thief or thieves, and a fur
j ther reward for securing them with the property.
» °A> ' d.
—— — r
, Fcr Sale, «
Carolina Rice in whole and half tierces,
[ Cotton of Gaycfene and Trinidad, I ]
r Soal Leather, entitled to drawback,
t Boften Beef, and
, Mould and dipt candles.—pply to
s lfaac Harvey, jitn. ti
No. s> South Water.street. cr
iQtkmo. 17. ; dsw. i'jj
Sales of India Goods.
1 The Cargo ef tke ihip.G inges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and»BengaJ,
' CONSfSTING OF
A Large and general afibrtment of Bengal and Madras
COTTON and SILK GOODS,
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety fine worked and plain Muslim,
Doreas, l!fc. Alio,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar J }
, In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
, For Sale by
Willings Sjf Francis, c
No. SI Penn Street. jy
J*ne 2 § C
L
New Hat and Hosiery Store,
Wholesale, and Retail,
By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL, r
No. 134, Market Street, 3d door from the corner V
of Fourth, South Side. C
Mens* Black American and Englih Hats, of various qual-
ities and prices.
Ditto Drabs and GreeM-und«rs. A
Ladies* ditto black \
And a large aflartment of fancy ditto
Coloured Beavers
With a great variety of elegant and sash ionablc trim
mings* &c.
' Youth's black arid drab coloured ditto.
fancy ditto
{ All KiiitU of silk, silk affd cotton, cotton and thread hose
, Knit coloured Pantaloons
Dit*a DriivVrs
Ditto Breeeh«c patterns
Gloves
Knottecl, cotton. 0
Ar quantity of cotton,forted colours.
N. B. ihe hats finifned in the newest faihos.
— r l 7' eo<jim.
Washington Lottery.
The 30th and 31ft days' drawing of the Washington
pottery, No. a, are received at the office No. 4, Mar
ket-street, wiiere tickets may be examined. B'
N. B. Information given where ticket# in ail the othe
•otteries may be procured. ,
Goober ao, 1 4
' • 1 11
A CAPITAL ASSORTMENT OF
DRY GOODS.
John Miller, jun. & Co.
Exclulive of their own Importation now opening,
Have received by the William Peon, Caroline and Diaoi
CONSIGNMENTS,
Whit!; cosuprize a.capital afifortment to open a.
Dry Goods Store.
Among!* t)iem are—
r' Common f per und luperfinc Cloths,
k Plain, twill'dend llrip'd Coatings,
>5 Baizes and Hsai:cli,
Point, rose and dufFil Blankets,
Je Plain and- puntea Caffimerei,
I Swanfdowns,
Printed Calicoes,
Scotch Threads,
Hosiery.
rliey will be fold either ifi whole, er in part, by the
package, terms which render th«m an object worthy gf
attention to purehafers. dtf OA. 21.
LAND IN G, »
it ® ut °f different vejelt from England, and for fall
in by the fuljcrilers en reajtnable terms,
Supeifine and common cloths, and calltmers
Ribbed and striped do. do.
Blankets , mottled green and fi!k rugs.
Superfine bltite, Claret, and cemmon coatings,
, Kerseys, Bear-ikins, plains and Halfchic:.;.,
Swanlkins, Serges and Flannels,
British Ingrain Carpeting,
r. Hatsaflortcd in cases of 11 doz. each.
Chocolate chintzes, printed t'allicoes and Handkerchiifs.
Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
Yarn, Worftcd, and C<-tfpn hosiery,
Beavers, Thickfotts, Ivets, -Corduroys, &c. See.
Bull and drab Genoa Cords of si iunerinr s*—
<jii; S<l. .lOtt 110. 7CO. na>ls, and fryibg pans,
An aflbrtanciit of Ironmongerry, Cutlery and a variety
of India cotton, aud silk gouds. r >
e Thomas & JoJhua Fijher.
' No. 5, Dock-fttreet. '
Also by the GlaTijow from Dublin,
1-8 and 4-4 Irish io boxes of 30 pieces,
do. Bfown, Glazed Linnen. <
17. Its
To be Rented,
A Small and Convenient •6 R E IV ER T, at
Llorris Vi lie, afipoftte Trent an.
ALL the Apparatus for Brewing new and in gotri
repair: A number cf Barrels and Half Barrels will
also be rented. Pofleflion may be bad at any time.
. Enquire of Mr. Garrett Cottringer in Philadelphia,
or Mr. Robert Morris, jun. or Daniel Mun at Mcrris
, Ville.
Oaober 20, 1796. tnthftitw
__
, THIS I) 4T JS; PUBLISHED,
By Benjamin Davies,
* Ac. 68, Higb-Jlrstt,
0 The American Repoiitory of ufeful
1 information, for 1797.
-f COfrtAINING,
A Calendar for the year#
A complete Regiflerbf the Executive, Legislative,
and Judic ; ary Officers of the General Government.
e A of tlie Military Fa»ce* of the United States.
1 oft-Ofiice Eflabhlhment—times of receiving and
a closing the Mails atThiladelphia.
o The post roads and towns, and their diltftnccs
Times of holding the Supreme, Circuit and DiftriA
Courts.
A taiAe of Impost duties, alphabetically arraaged.
A lift of the cyltonvuoufi bfficers and their fcer.
Rules for reducing the currencies of the several
- ftatcs into one another, and all of' them into tbe mo
ney of the United State*.
Ufeful tables of-the of pounds, fliillin*-s and
pence, in dollars and cents.
A register of the officers of tbe civil government of
Pennsylvania.
A gardiner's caVndar for Pennfylvanil.
Aft'd a great variety ®f other articles of ufeful informa
tion. Embellilhed with twelve elegant vignettes, an en* ,
graved title-page and frontispiece,— making together, a
handfoine, as well as very ufeful, little pocket companion.
OiStober 20. aawtf
Country Rum,
And a few pipes of Vinegar,
1,1 > For Sale by
Ezekiel Hall,
At the stores of Mr. Edward Stow, jun. No. 4, South
5 Water-street. Odober 20. d
Imported, in tbe late arrivals from Europe and the
iVcJI-lndies,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix»Sugar and Rum
Martinique Molaflis, in hoglheads
Choice old Lisbon Wine, in pip«s and quarter-calks
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine,
in pipes, half-pipes and qßarter-cafts
Malm fey Madeira Wine, in pipes and quarter-calks
TenerifTe Wine, in pipes
Ruflia & Flemish Sheeting and Ravens Dusk, in cases
• Window Glass, Bby 10, in
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in casks
. Mill Saws and Cross-cut Saws, in boxes
Also, on hand,
A few chtfts of Bohea Tea : Jefnits BarkAflaftt
tida and Tapioca ; and a few bales of Coflaes,
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Handker
chiefs, and a complete afiortment of ?-4 and 6-4
Boulting Cloths.
For Sale by
Pragers Ess Co*
20 (fowm&thim
SAIL CLOTH.
On Monday, the 3 \JI injl. will.be Sold
at Public Sale, at the Store of Messrs.
George Hunter £sf Co. No. 153, Pearl
Jlreet, New-Tork,
175 Pieces of the Best
Englifii Weft Country Sail Cloth,
By some persons called East Coken, and by others
Weft Coken.—lt is of known excellency; wears
white, and does not mildew
°<£lober 18 «h,9 t hPR rc E$ CURRENT.
Philadelphia., Oft. 22.
PER QUANTITY DOLLARS AT 100 CENTg.
Dolls. Ctr. Dalit' Ct s
11 Nails, %d, tod, izd,
•A'rrr, M/tglijbppr cwt 775 and lod, per lb. 13
''Ditto, Roch, pr lb. II A r utmegs, per lb. *12
-AJhes, pit per hty IJO Oil, I'nfced, per gall. 'I 33
v- Pearl, *1 $0 Olive,
Arrack, per gallon, — ditto, per cafe, 9
Paeon, Shoulder, pr. lb. IO ——-Sweet, be ft, in
- -Flitches, 13 per box, to J
Brandv, 'common, 'l 60 —ditto baflets, 12
- — -'—Conrac, % 25 bottles, 7
Brazilian, per ton, 90 •Spermaceti pr gall I 06
3rich, per M> 7 - Trait,per bbl. 18
Bread, Jhip, pfr c*vt. 6 —IVbale, per gal. 40
Ditto, pilot 9 5® Porter per cafe, y 7, 30 '
Ditto, ftnall water —London, per dor. 250 j
per be*, $0 American do. bott.
-Beer, American, in bo** irtcl. 2 |
ties, per dozen, bot- Pitch, per bbl. 4
tits included, I 60 Pork,- Burlington, per
Ditto, per barrel, 6 barret, 19 to 2d
Boards iCedarjper Mfeet 3.0 ———Lower eouuiy, 19
-■ -Heart, Carolina, 16
——New England, 26 So Peas, Albany, pr bajk.
—Oak, 26 Pepper, per lb, 38
——- Merchantablepine, 28 Pimento, 14
-■ ■ Sap, do. l 8 Rtiiftns, beflper leg Yt
- Mahogany,pr.Joot Ditto pet-jar, 6
The above a.re thefhallop Ditto Jter box 8
prices, for the yard Rice, per cuH. 5
price, add I dollar, Rofrn 'per barrel < 4 50
J3 cenf 1., p er M. Rum, famaica, prgal. I 67
Brim/lone in rolls, per ■ -•Antigua I 44
eivt. $ 3 * ■ '-Hfinehuard I 40
*.« —Barbados I 27
Countryditto 15 ■■ ■ Country, IV. E. 9 J
Frefb, eivt-, 5/08 Saltpetre, per cwt. 50
Butter per lb. 18 a2o Sttffafras, per ton
in 'legs 14 Shot, ditto, 120
Randies Sperm, per lb. $6 Steel, German, per lb. 14
1 , —Englifb,blift.pr cwt. 12 14
- 1.. Myrtle JVax 20 —American, per ton 133 33
* — Mould talloivl% to 19 —' rowley's,pr f*ggot
Dibhed 15 Snake root, per lb. 35
Kubeejt, tcr, "A© duujr, irrrrxxmpcitbt ■x%
- Country II <2 13 —M r h'<te 14
Chocolate CJ a 33 —Cajlile 22
Cinnamon 66 Starch 11 4
Cloves I 5c Snuff,pr doz bottler $O
Cocoa, toer nvt. fiO Spermaceti refined pr I&»
Coffee, per lb. 25 to Jo 04// cloth, English. No.
Coal, per bujhel, 30 940 I', per yard, 53
Copperas, per eivt. 3 -BoHon, No. I, </». 3©
Cordage x American,per —No. 2, do.
eivt. l 6 a l 8 Sugar, lump, per lb. 25
Cotton, per lb. 33 /• 50 Loaf, Jingle res. 1"}
Currants 16 Bit to double Utt*
Duel, RuJJta, per piece, 15$ 18 - ■ -Havannah, -white 20
■ Ravens II 5 0 "* Ditto brdwn 1,6
Dutch Sail Duck 22 — Mufcovadop. eivt 11 aI { 67
-Feathers, per lb. 661 Eafi India, pr.
flax, ditto II cwt. 14 66
Flaxfeed, per bujhel X Sp. 'Turpentine pr gall. 66
Hour, Sup. per bL II 5° Salt, allum, pr bujbcll 60
* ■ Common v TO 50 Liverpool 52
i Bur middftngs, bed, 9 SO —Cadiz 60
-■ ' Meal, Indian 4 * —Lijbon 56
- ditto Rye, J Ship building IV.. 0.
■ ■ ■ Ship fluffp ft. 367 frames per ton 22 67
Fuflic per ton, 1 § D 'tito Live Oak, 26
Gin, Holland per cafe, 7 .5® Do. Red Cedar pr foot
Do. per gall. I 4° Shingles 18 inches,pr
Glue, per lb. 18 As. 4 50
Ginger,-wbilr raee,pr civtl 8 Ditto 2 feet 9 12
Ditto, cotnmow 16 3 feet drejfel 17 22
Ditto, ground 24 Staves, pipe pr lObO, *65
dnfeng, per lb. 30 white-oak hogshead 45 33
Gunpowder, eannon,per — oak ditto 28
97-. £«/£, 23 ' Leogan 26 33
Ditto, Jne glazed, 28 Barrel £o.
(Train, TVkeat pr bujh 2 Heading 44
•———Rye, I Si/Vij Otter, beflpr piece 3 3:3
Oirfr, 40 —lidinks 26
■ ■■ Indian Com, I -*-F*e, grey 2® '054
Barley, I —Z)/7& I 20
■■ ■ ■"* bejlJhelledpr. lb. — Mar tint * C
■ Buckwheat per —Fibers 5 7
75 —Bears 3
Ham:., pr. lb. 13 —Racoons 6©
A"mp, imported, per —Afufk-rats, , 3.7
/<wr t 3®® —Beaver, per tb\ I 62
American y ftr lb. IO —Deer, in hair 2J i 33
■Herrings, per bbl. 6 Ttfr,
Hides, raw pr. lb. % to 9 —Carolina, 32 gall* 2 JO
Hops, 10 Turpentine, per bbl. 3 20
Hogfheifd boops per ]\f. 3© Tobacco, J. River bejl
Indigo, French per lb. 125 lOOlb. Ja 8
Carolina, 1 ■» Petcrjburg 6*6 JO
Irons, fad per ton £33 33 ——Potowmac 3 i 5
cajtir.gs per cwt. 4 ——Georgia 6* J
fcnrcc —... Carolina 4 <5
120 « 12667 Tea Hyson, per lb I to 1
—Rujfia fcr ton 97 —Hyson skin, 83
—•Souchongy I I 13
-Abeet, 224 33 —50 4
-—"Nail rods» 133 33 — Bohea, 35
ju*k per cwt. 5 Tallow, refined, per lb. 14
hogs per lb. 14 Tin, per box 16 JO
Lead in pigs, per cwt. 533 Vanilla, per lb. 20 024
wr /arj, 7 Vcrdigreafe, do. I 1
white, 13 33 Verm'dlinn, 1 56
-*—*—rcd, 9 Varnijh, per gallon,
Leather, foal fcr lb* 20 IVax, Bees, per lb. 33
-Lignum vita per ton, 24 I4 r bale-bcne, long.pr lb. 12 1
Logwood, 45 Wine, Madeira pr p. 226
Mace, per lb. 13 Lijbon, 126
Alaelardl, bejl per bbl 12 Teneriffe,prgal. 80
Jecond quality 8 I——-Fayal,l——-Fayal, 76 1
Madder, befl per lb. 20 ——Port per pipe 150
Marble wrought pr fo'jt 6c Do. in bott. Pr doz 6
Mast spars ditto 60 ——Claret,per cask 40t050
M&lrjfes, per "gall. 561162 —Sherry, ter gallon I^so
-Mustard, per lb. 46 —-Malaga, I 48
Jour, in bottles dot. 1 10
per dozen, 1 20
WAN rs E MPLOYMENT,
A YOUNG MAN jufl arrived in this city: would
wife to engage as a Ptivate Tutor in a Gentleman' 9 Fami
ly. He profeffes teaching the Rudiments of iheEnghfo, .
Trench, and Latin .languages, Writing, Arithmetic,
common, .and dccim ii Fnctioos, Book-Keeping, Sur
vcying, Guaging, Navigation, Astronomy, Geography,
Afgebra, &t. &e.
The PuMiftrer, by reason of his travels, (having visited
turope, Asia and Africa) has had an opportunity of ,
pr.icliling mod of the above Branches.
A line addressed to C—— K , and left at the
Office of this Paper, ihall b« duly attended to.
Oftobcr ao. 3 1
Boarding and Lodging 1
TWO GENTLEMEN may be accommoda'ed with
Boarding and Lodging, in a private family and pleasant
part of the trity. Apply to the Printer of the Gazette ol ]
the United States.
Odober 11. tt&stf
W A A T T E 1),
/In JPPRENTICE (a tie Prirtinj; Cufine/s.
Enqn/rc atthis Office.
CONTINUATION OF
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
BT THE ZJTi JXKirJIS.
CONSTANTINOPLE, July 3 i.
The mail, which we expcflefl on the 18th in ft.
3 did not arrive antil the 23d, and you may easily
13 conceive how much this circumstance txcited the
euriofiiy both of the Otturoan tniniftry and the
whole Diplomatic corps, and made every one ex
tremely uneasy. After the letters were given out
we learnt, that the two Jt-mfTafiei, who according to
cuilotr- were charged with carrying the tnail Tram
>6 Pushing to this place, were attacked hy robbers, &
clofcly pursued within a small distance from the ad
-5° I v'anced posts oTF the atrny in RomeJia 5 they were,
;o | however, adroit enough to save ihe mult important
| parcels of K-tters as well a# of ths jewels, which it
j ii the evil cuftota hert to fend by this conveyance,
and which attradi the rapacity of the thieves and
rogues in that quarter. This occurrence, however,
has spread -here great alarms with refpett to th • fu
ture fafety of the mails, rtoiwithllanding the Porte
13 has gi/en the ftHfleft ordeis for the protcftioa of
the mefTengers entrusted with them.
4 *' The rebels begin to appear in force in the en
virons of Adrianople, and some of their detach
ment* have even pushed on beyond the territory be
longing to lhat town, without meeting with the
0 lead apposition on the part of the army commanded
by the Beglierbey, on account of which, we under.
0 (land, that general has been fe»erely reprimanded,
7 arid ordered without the least delay ta exert his ut
most efforts for a speedy extirpation of the bandit*
ti. It is a very remarkable circumduct, that their
number, inflead of decreallng, does daily encreafe,
which renders them more infolervt and enteiprifing.
4 The word of the business is, that they have every
3 where friends and protestors.. who give out, that
there is not the least hope of reducing them, and
{ that government should accoMinodate matters with
4 the Brigands, in a manner highly difgraceful to it,
1 that is, by granting them a general pardon for the
* past, allowing thole who are come from the vicini
-0 ty of Belgrade to return thither, and to distribute
some money among them, in order to alleviate the
3 raiferiss of their present fit nation.
d
STOCKHOLM, Angaft 16.
We have received the fatisfaftory news of the
fafe landing of the King and Duke Regent, on the
3 15th, at five in the afternoon, at Abo, which town
f> was illuminated in the evening. Before he embar
-7 ked, the duke felt some effects from the wound
which he received in the lad war ; but, during the
5 voyage, it gave him no inconvenience.
0 The Chamberlain Baron Schwerin, appointed lall
» year to communicate to the Empress the intended
£ marriage of the King with the Princess of Meek
lenbourg, has received a very different commission,
7 that of announcing to the court of Rufiia the visit
which it is about to recsive from the King.
COPENHAGEN, Augud. jo.
j The Thetis frigate, of 40 guns, lately returned
j from the North Seas, is to be fitted out again with
the utmost speed for the raediterianean, to protrfi
3 the Danidt commerce in that quarter, as our go
vernment seems rather to fufped the paeiSc affuian-
J ces of the dey of Tripoli. The prefects destined
for that sovereign are still here, and they will not be
} sent off before the return of the Prince Royal
5 Letters from Stockholm of the 18th state, that
4 no fntelligcnce had at that time been received of tbe
. king of Sweden's fafe arrival at Abo in Finland,
- but that the wind having been favourable there
could be no doubt of his having had a fafe and
B quick paflage.
J PARIS July 28.
SPEECH
3 OF CITIZEN REVEILLIERE LEPI
3 President of the executive dircftory, del.
the camp De Mats, on the fellival of ti
, ef August.
'' b rtnehmcn,
At a period which is now remote, reafot. t
gan to illuminate our minds, and the sacred fin
liberty glowed in our vein* ! TheHudyof the eu - j
j getic languages, a taste for which has since been g>
j rally diffufed ; the bold systems, tbe sublime ideas
1 the profound sentiments, the vigorous images ot
* th«>fe philofopherg and poets who have rendered
3 Europe illnftrious, at length elevated our understan
dings, and warmed our imaginations. Thus pre
s pared, the American revolution could not remaiu a
llerile example.
' *' Since that memorable epoch, the calls of li
-1 berty have been listened to with rapture in France 1
At her powerful voice the Dauphinefe defceaded
3 from their mountains, and the men of Brittany
i came forth from their heaths and their forefts
they willed their independence I Soon was this ge
nerous movement communicated to every part of the
nation—the representatives of the people were af
-8 feitibled !
«' The fpiritcd resolution passed by the deputies
of the people on the 23d of June, commenced to
sap the foundations of that throne which had op
pressed lis for so many ages. The fall of 'he Baf
i tile (hook it to its balls. But it (till exified it
- threatened to consolidate itfelf a n»iv, and by ic
. fare* to 1;cj! (town all before ir.
' " BlefTed ba the immortal day of the "tenth of
August ! foi then it was completely overthrown !
" Ths friends ef liberty, wearied of the rn»-
1 neeuvres of a court, as as deeply I
f corruptid, flocked here from evfciy quarter.
awful phalanxes, attacked the co!oUu> fii royalty,
and which was then planning new devaluations and 1
new crimes It crumbled into dtift 1 and the re
public was proclaimed in the face of its most formi.
dable enemies.
I, "In vain doth the vile partixans of slavery, or
t men, who, iiicapable ef forgetting an injury, would
I facrifice the best and juftelt 'of caufea to the pas
sions of revenge. In vain, I fsy, do they endea
vor to throw a eloild over the enjoyment of this
day. Impartial history will secure its place among
the moll glorious of epochs. Posterity will be in
formed, that though some profligate infinuatcd
TZ themfeivts into the sacred ranks, and succeeded *
lirfl inirftiblifhing their horiid 4ominiti<W ; tliov.; 1
they completed the measure of their crimes, bj
E,, profiting of the allonrlhment £nd conftifion nceeffa
rily produced by the dreadful fall of an ancient mo
narchy ; 11411 it is not the less true, that the lot!
of Augu'ft vJas the work of the purest patriots,
id. All those to whom nature had given gr<;at couragc
jly and vigorn»s m'ind3, contributed to it by their
he speeches, their writings, or iheir peifonal efforts,
he " Hiltory wiU declare, that had it not been tor
rx- 'he glorious events o< the loth of Aug till, the
, a t territory of France would have been parcelled out
t 0 intofmafl portions, and lhared among the members
kh of a powerful coalition, or the throne would have
& been firmly eftaUiflied by the deflmftion of our
id. infant ir.llitution#, and then ths furious tyrant would
rf> have exercised a vengeance (1 ill more execrable and
nt more prolonged than that which marked the tran-
Jt lient feign of the triumvirate.
-e, "It will tinfoil, that had it not been for this
n< ] day Frenchmen would never have enjoyed the full
;r> extent of those rights'-which give happinef* to the
: Ll . social slate ; equality would not hare exitted, that
eqnality of rights which renders all the public fnnc
0f tions accessible to every citizen. That equality
which assures to us the corvftitution of 1795 ; a
n . conititmion which, while it gives force to the exe
h. cution of the laws, and security to persons and
IC . property, does not permit any family or individual
n e to aflume peculiar prerogatives and diitindiions, or
t( ] lo arrogate to themselves, even eventually, claims
r . to public officei. A constitution which the
d, legiffatorf and the magiflratcs of the r-ptiblic, to
t. return to the condition of limple eiiizetvs, after a
t. exercise of their authority.
J r " Finally, history will declare to poflerity th it,
to the immortal 10th of August we are Indebted
g._ for the republic ? The republic ! Ah 1 is there
j one whose heart is so cold, and whose mind is so
Jt groVelling, as not to feel the scale of his eviftence
lt j enlarged, and his foul elevated by the idea of be
jj ing one of its citizen!, and breathing the air of li
t, httf y !
Ie " But, citizens ! it is not fufficient ta have eom
bated for the republic, and to have eftablilhed it
;c by wife laws ; it is neceflary to prefcrvs it. What
, e would be your l»t were it ta periflj ? Shame and
misery ! The mean* of perpetuating it is in our
own hands.
" Would we be afTured that the throne of ki;igs
le shall never rife amonglt us—let us pull down the
ie throne of vice ! let us eredt the ihione of virtue !
„ " Let all the affc&ions of nature, which corrup
r_ tion had "nearly extinguished, and which the vio
j lence of faction had almost made us forget, resume
their empire. Let all the foft lies of social rela
j tions be drawn closer. Let the endearing hames of
jt faithful lover, tender husband, good father, affec
tionate child, difirvterefted friend, kind neighbour,
.. «»d honed man, be preferred to all the empty titles
to which ambition has attached lo much value. Let
j t republican franknefs, and a finiple life, be preferred
to the glare of falfe talents, and the brilliancy of
fortune.
" It is by moderate de(ires —by the pri&ice of
l( j forgetting ent's felf, and thinking only of promot
k ing the happiness of others, that egotii'mcan bede
g flroyed, and those exalted charadters formed who
j. fly with ardour to the defence of their country
who siipment her prosperity, and add to her glory,
j Then, burning with the love of our country, we
ie faciifice our interefls to hers. Then, generality and
masculine energy, take the place of hatred and de
!t fire of vengeance. In a word, the habitual exer
cise» of all the public and private virtues, leads to
j 5 the oblivion of the evil* inseparable from gteat poli
ce lical com uffions, while it excites a lively fenfc of
d happy consequences resulting from such a revo-
JBt las ours.
Rejoice, jt republicans, worthy of a,name so
glori s! Soon shall our wife initiations produce
ho>. ppy efFe<2s ; then all Frenchmen, united
'? raiment, andJafling with rapture the fruits
i: - gathered, wiil evet blefi th* immortal
k c Itnlb of /Ivgvjt.
a civic games aid the celebration of this
ia; I. every citizen open his heart to the most
. "s .fcie mrcrnity and the purest joy. Heaven.
Jncord ! dtfeend to prelide at our feilivals,
1 Tplays with enthufiafio all the lullre
./J of cercHfres: j ,
f • ' LIN, Septembers.
" - -mj of foot, and two of horse, arc
•' i" England of immediate era
b lii ■adorn.
a .
' "i' r t?»e Un'itfa States.
d ~ k
y -No. VII.
IN tt hargc* alledged against
Mr. Ads. , *rted on the unfairnef#
eof garblir- "10: c tfih'ng expressions for
r the purpol author's work ; «nd
1 have advei f' •?!!■.: n the courts of ju
s dicature in 1 pre/.;, L tions sot a libel,
□ where the jui-} - icw : til! th<y have read
the -whole -work
Will the e*Li-/e< America con.
t demn sn old and ai even Hamp
den f!iles •' « pal. t |,ey have al
lowed him the me. ~ are allowed
f in England to the » -Lei them
■ »e?d defence ol c nftititioiis,
- and I shall be conten. 1 id* "rdidf •
- but let them spurn, w He vJio-
infiDuationt of pi
, Mr JtfFetfon ;A«opi
j nior.s by the ru ' ; 'e.. aopjied I
- by his Mr . A ■ !! -LMI,
" caCe " corU '- <
which should be If(J ,
r quotations, and partial. extr;.
I The charge against Mr. A, SpT - '
- that he is an advocate for mor. ' «J®nfec V" '
- orders; and this charge i* fait. i* 1. ' t
s certain ssprtflions in his work. c
r Id» not mean to retort with li -it' ff»- ? .1
. and accufc Mr. JefFcrfon of beinj 3■ : J3< i
J tasnatchy.and piinileged eider:;'
1 ' 1
»' ranie.! in alferting', that, without doing any violence
ugh to the context, 1 can produce, from his writing,,
by particular paflagei, as much in favour of menarcby
rffa ind privileged orders, at any pafl'ages in Mr.
mo- ams'» book.
oth For example—ln speaking of the impolicy of
otfc. increasing the population of the United States, by
age encourjging the introdu&ion of foreigners," in page
leir 93 of his Notes on Virginia, he observes, that so.
:s. reigners will infufe into our government their fpirir,
tor kc. by waiting some years longer, our government
the will he more homogeneous, more peaceable, mare
out durable. He then adds, " Suppose * twenty mil
>ers " lions of republican Americans, thrown all of a
ave " sudden into France, what would be the condition
our " of that kingdom ? If it would be more turbulent,
uld " left happy, left flrong, we may believe, that the
uid " addition of half a million of foreigners to our
an- " present numbers, would produce a iimilar effect
" here."
his Now, it is evident, from the above extract, that
■nil Mr. jejferfon believed that a monarchicalgovci nment
the was the bell suited to Fiance, and that lending
:iat there twent) millions vf republican Americans would
nr. .render France more turbulent, less happy, and left
ity Jlrong, If he thought thai twenty millions of A;ne
, a rican republicans (who are j'lllly reckoned the bell
He- republicans r.:i the gu>*«e) wonlfl t&ftrgeinijt France,
nd and diminifb her happiness and her flrength', he mult
Lial have been fiillv that thirty millions of
or French republicans (who, with all their merit*, are
mi certainly inferior to 'he Americans in thefcience of
he felf-gotcrninent) would produce those effe&s n a
to much greater degree.
a An opinion in favour of monarchy, if then very
cafily inferred from the foregoing pa (Page.
:t, In page 126, of the fame work, in enumerating
ed whit he calls the capital defers of the eonftitutioii
:re of Virginia, he complains bitterly of the esriftrnc
fo tion ot the fertile, as not being fufficiently arijte
ce cratic, although the members are chosen for four
)e- years, as long a period as in any state in the Union,'
)i. except Maryland. But he complains, because the'
senate, and the ele&ors of the senate, do not con
stitute a different inleref} from the reft of the com
it mumty. He fay s , «« The senate is, by it* confliiu.
,ai " tion, too homogeneous wilh the haufe ot delegates;
nd " beingchofen by the lame electors, at the fame time,
Ur "and out of the fame fukjedt, the choice falli of
" course, on men oj the jumi description. The pur
gj " pofeof eftablilhirrg different houses of legation
he " is, to introduce the influence of different interefls or
" different principles. In some of the American
p. ' liates, the delegates and fe.iators are so- chosen,
o- "as that the firil rsprefent the perfens, and the fe
ne " cond the property f of the state: but, with us,
la. " wealth and lufdom have an equal chance for ad
os " million into both houses. We do no? therefore
•c- " derive, from the fcparationof" our lcgiuature into
i», " two houses, those benefits which a proper complies.
!cs " *>m ofprinciples is capable of producing, and those
, et " which atone can compensate the evils which may
e d "be produced by their dilß-ntt'ons."
of Now can there be a ftrcnger recommendation of
arijlocracy and privileged orders than we find in this
paffaee? He wifnea td> fee introduced into (he con.
»t- liitution of Virginia, an liflveye o( interefls differ-
~ ' <nt from those of the mals of th£ fub/eiis (as he
to cabs the people) a>.d to eltabliih a permanent con
— ftitu.'ional Reparation of two orders of people, o«
y- different principles * one to be rep refer ted by the
ve Senate, the other by the Delegates,- he wilhtsto
>a have wealth altogether re] pv* fen ted m the Senate,
e- and wisdom in the other ho-nfe, and laments that
:r " -wisdom has an equal chance with -wealth of admif
(ion into the Senate. What is all this but an efla
blifhaient of privileged orders a :d of an arifiucracy '
of of the rankelt kind r The ■wealth of the state is to
0- continue a separate class, to be represented exclu-
Jively in a senate, the members of which are to be
f<> elected by a separate class, a fenue which is to he
cc organized on different prirriples, ond which is to
•d maintain* an influence of (frjjerent inter efts from those
ts 9 f the reft of the focietv. SUcli a having
al an equal participation ot the IcgiHative power with
the poorer repielentatives of the poorer class, would
■" soon ci'ufti the other branch aud ufuip all p>owcr ;
'ft it would soon erc£t itfelf into an hereditary aiiflo
rl - ciacy, like that of Venice, Is,thetc any dißinc-
s i tion, tfxeept in names, between a privileged order 9
re and a dillinft clifo of men enabled by their polTef
fion of wealth and a branch of the legislature to
maintain a separate influence in the Itate .''What in
fa£t is a privileged order but a separate clafsofraen,
re P°lffft n K by law exclusive privileges ? What did
Mr. fefferfon wish to cllablifh"in Virginia ?—— 4< a
separate and privileged class, compoftd cf the
wealthy, p«2"cfGnjj by law an influence, different
1 from that of the reft us the people, and excluftvely
represented in the Senate ? He was therefore an
advocate for privileged orders, and I defy any of
his chatnpioqs to produce any fiagment from Mr.
Adams's book, so pointedly in favor of privileged
ft orders, as applicable to the United States, as the
Is foregoing quotation from Mr. J. fferfon's.
>r All ar'tfiocracy of -wealth being thus established
d by law, titles would follow of course ; it matters
little whether such a Virginia frnator, as Mr. Jef
1, ferfon wilhed to create, was to be lliled honorable,
d 01 illxiflrious, the title of a Venetian senator; the
latter would most probably be annexed ; for we find
1. even Hampden, while extolling the republican cha
-- rafter <| hi*p"»ron, so fir forgets ijirofelf as to
lltle him the illt/Jlrioi:: jffefvn ; he presently after
d speaks of his wealth ; thus coniicdiing his riches
n with his illujtrioas character, as though he hdd just
bee' reading his plan ps a Virginia house of nobisjv
Will it be now denied that even Thomas Jefifcr
— son, that prototype of republicans, has in his ven't
ings, countenanced doftrinvs favorable to monarchy
• and ariltocracy ; that he has, in this r»fp*a, at
i lead as much forfeited his till; to the public favgr,.
— --as Mr. Adams, and that henceforward his parti
, zans, il they have any sense of decency, ought la
! be silent cm this fubjeft I
■ PHOCION.
A vtry curious fuppnfuion, by the bye, hiafinueh at
there %vcrc not, at that time t three iniliiens oi repuhii*
can Aiocrioans. in the world. Where, then, vu he to
ndta-'ic fNi'c*uy millions ?
> tNo; e. f here iinothing of Uie kind in any of tli~
i. "• 5 the *fl«ruo.i U ufttruc.fox THE GAZETTE Of THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fenno,
It is a common mistake for the writers who at
tack public chara&ert in order to depreciate them
in the eyes of their countrymcn, to go too far in
their criticisms, and to render all their arguments in
effectual by the falfehood or injustice of a part. Of
this defeription seems to be Phoeion, who is cm
, ployed at present in delineating the chara&er and
qualifications of Jefferfon.
Whether Jefferfon is an ambitious man or other
wise, a man courting or shunning popularity, 1 am
not fufficiently acquainted with his disposition to
determine, knowing him only from his performan
ces of official duties ; and as the degree of his am
bition is not thoroughly ascertained, Phoeion might j
have continued to impeach him on this head, with- ,
out rnii(?h danger of oppofitijn or detection. But c
wlitn be undertakes to question his political abilities, j
9r fie comes upon a ground where every American is r
prepared to meet him ; and so much do the fen- f
timents of this counrry differ from him as to this «
particular, that I question whether any ftridlures
of his will be read with patience, that are founded u
i poa a position so unfortunately singular.
The mind of Jefferfon is universally allowed to
take rank amongst the firft of human beings. He
poffeffet an undcrftanding at once vigorous and ac
tive, uniting solidity of reasoning and deep pene
tration with a happy pliancy of attention that qua
lifies him for any station, either of executing or de
vising. As aftatefmaii I believe he has no fupe.
rior either in this country or Europe, and here is
the branch of his reputation that Phoeion it now
attempting to undermine.
It can indeed offend no man of candor to have the
virtues and vices of a candidate fairly displayed, es
pecially of him who aspires to so high a situation
as that of President ; but the writer who piretends I
to dirtrnft the mental faculties of Jefferfon, is surely I
x a most unfortunate assailant. He spends his force I
sgainft rocks and mountains. J
As to his philosophy, it is necessary to define the
term, before we pruceed to condemn him for this
pursuit. There are various species of philosophy, j
and each branch requires a diffeient genius. The J '
astrologer, perhaps, would make but a poor natu
lalift ; and he whofelife is employed in scrutinising
berbs and flowers, would as badly ftuceed in deve- I A'
loping the etheraal system ; and, perhaps, all these i
qualities united, would not form a good politician. I
When we speak of Jefferfon's philosophy, we evi- I ■,
der.tly mean to designate the peculiar excellence of I t
hie mind, without alluding to his proficiency in anv I \
particular science. He may, indeed, fonietimes a- I
mtife himfelf with «•, differing butterfles," for I 1
aught we know ; but it is not there that his force
lies. We admire him, chiefly, for the proofs that Dj
he has given us of his political[abilities j and frjm ° u
our experience of his capacity in this way, we £ "
are now about to ftimmon them to new ftperations r'"
After all, Mr. Fenno, I do not profefs myfelf °
an advocate of Jefferfon : and if, as his opponents r '
alledge, his principles are white is called democratic
or antifederal, my heart reje<3s him altogether. It j°
is iffential, that a man be elected into that office, "'
11 who, like the great Waihington, can consent to de
liberate, before he relolves upon harsher measures.
If Jefferfon is of this cast, I know not what objee
tion can be formed againlt him ; at least, there is
nothing about him to be attajked with It fs profped
•f success than his talents or experience.
AN AMERICAN.
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
1 Mr. Fenno,
The " Certificate of Mr. Jefferfm's good bp- '
haviour" published in your paper of yesterday, as
coming from the Assembly of Virginia, is, I pre
sume, intended to repel .the charge against Mr. Jef
ferfon of having abandoned his poll when Governor
of that ftatc on an mvafion of the enemy.
Admitting the certificate to begen nine, of which, c "mt
however, we have no proof, it is well known how k'd <
easily fwch ceitificates, or votes of thanks, are ob
tained ; generally at the close of the'/effion, when
the principal opponents of the measure are gone
home, and when others wishing to part in goo d hu- Ertn
mour, are easily persuaded to withdraw their oppo- I /
fiti n ; measures thus frequently pass nem. con. bc
caufe no member is willing to go into a difagreeablc C
debate, when if a debate and division took place, the W ,. hlcl
vote would probably be loft. I 1 " e 0
Besides, the certificate proves nothing as to the!" 1 ""
point in queftion,'for the charge was a want affirm- f""' °
ness; there was no crime in that ; the vote of p
thanks has very cautioufiy avoided this point-, it 11
only speaks of Mr. Jeffeifon's ability, integrity and
rectitude ; his ability antl integrity as Governor were
not called in question ; the chaige was timidity, and '
vet the vote fays nothing of Wnfrmnefs, fteadin-fs
and perseverance which was the only material point
He might have made a good Peace Governor of 1
Virginia, for u,« w tll known their Governors hare BAI
little or nothing to do : Mr. Jefferfon himfelf in On
b » Notes on Virginia, f. ys th „ the governor<i s a of his
" ler e c VP her ' legislature dire* all hi, fident
operations. His friends m the legislature, cempaf. com
nona'.irg a man of weak nerves, whom they did mand
rot consider as criminal, had mteieft enough to mo- Tohn
cure tnu vote, wfcich leave, ,he charge just where w» a<
It was before.
Ql A,
■— bringt
50 Dollars Reward. under
Loft, a red Morocco Pockei-Book P arb *
BKTWEEN the Center House and the White Horse in fl
Market-street; containing two 20 dollar bank-notes, «nc f.
of jo dollars, and one branch-banki-uote of one dollar • " ,3 wa
George Weed's rote of hand for *50 dollars, endorsed °f veff
A. Joseph ; a note of Jackson for 100 doKars; a Ab<
note of Mr. Carr for too dollar.; a note for 7 c dollar? si
and one of Mr. Drate for 6< dollars-and several other f°!
nete;, belonging to the l'ukfcriter. P olc "
Ihe Public are refpedfuliy desired not to reeeive any that ca
of those notes, as they can be of no use to any perfoß hut Tf
the owner, payment being ftopred, Whoever will deli- !?
V•. the fame at the officc of this Gazette fliall rcceive the ™
above reward. AARON JOSiPH Field J
° atlt " !r *3 ' the At
Washington Lottery. peTrs"
JThe 30th sndyft Days Drawing are arrived at the the cou
oftcj. No. 147,' Chefnut-ftreet. eminenl
ATKS. 1 1 '
Philadelphia,
who at-
te them SATURDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 14, 1706.
► rar in ,
CntJ Of letter from New-Yotk, dated yesterday, in*'
rt ." forms, that a vessel had arrived there fa seven days
, ' '* from Halifax, and btings letters which state that I
er an the French fleet had not been fecn there, n«r had t
any intelligence been received refpeftitig it, finee f
0 er " they heard of its being at the Bay #f Bulls, P
ara Newfoundland.
tion to b
01 man Extra<ff of a letter from Loudon, Sept. n.
his am- « The supplies of foreign wheat hcing much j-'
1 might greater than the confurnption can take off, and the a i
,with- ncw Enghfh wheat crop proving remarkably pro- la
' . du&ive in quantity, and fine in quality, the wheat w
btltlies, market this'morning was considerably cheaper; and "I
ican is no progref* could be made in the sales of the in
rie fen- fcrior forts of foreign wheat.
o this «« American wheat, 30 a 47/ per qr. of 8 bush.
j j'" Uoui, 20 a 24/"fine, per bbl. 1961b. m
u " ditto, 24 a 2yy"iup. fine, per do.
rye, 18 a 21/ per sack of 8 bufll. mi
to barley, 18 * 25/ per do. m '
Indian torn, 110 buyers. an
ac " ditto meal do.
P ene * 184 per bufhcl."
a - ha,
or de * ELECTION RETURNS.
fupe.
ere 18 Northampton County,
now Governor—Thomas Mifflin '387
Gongrefs—Samuel Sitgreaves 1307
' e l ' le John Richards 663
'» Peter Miihlenberg
atlon j John Chapman Fa
tea ds I Robert I„nllar 1^
u rely I JJfcmbly—Abraham Bachman 930 wh
f° rce j Thomas Mawhorter 507 ' !Cl
Stephen Balliou difj
John Coolbach 684 con
, ' l '* j Abraham Horn 590 Fort
p'>y. Jacob Eycrly J73 gen
' George Grass 541 foif
lalu - John Starbird 483 tere
iling p an
leve- I AT a Meeting of a refpe&abte nomber of the ci
hefe tizens of Philadelphia, held at Dnnwsody's ta- wa »
:ian. vcrn, for the purpose of felefling suitable persons 4
evi- as electors of a President and Vice Prelident of 'I
.e of I the United States——the following procccdin r s
any! were reported, to wit. h part
* s a " I At a meeting of a coufiderable number of the f° l!
or members of the legislature and other citizens (>F the . rC
that CODnt _'« "f Pennsylvania, held in the rity " CB ,
rSm I l,n evening 011 which the le rif- V
' m latuie adjourned, Samuei Postlethwaits,' of ?
3fV I ,n the chair, and Robeut Fraie*, wrl . r '
3 f If l Chelt,r ' Secretary, it was unsnitnoufly agreed wh ! c
to recommend the following named persons for elec- " aIK
s tors of President and Vice President at the election
to be holden on Friday the fourth dij of Novcm- ° r : y
. A J ber next. <■
'f"' I ELECTORS. ol " ;
j Israel Whelen, Philadelphia, ''
Samuel Miles, Montgomery, 1
Henry WynJcooji, Bucks, 1 "e
---e Jofi" Arndt, Northampton, ky tl
,eu Valentine Eckhart, Berks, m «"
Thomas Bull, Chester,
Robert Coleman, Lancaster, s°'°'
J"hn Carson, Dauphin, vldc^
William Wilson, Northumberland, '
Samuel Polllethwaite, Cumberland,
3f- [ John Hay, York, fuedl
as Benjamin Elliott, Huntingdon, !,on
ire- Ephraim Douglas, Weftmoreland, ® orln
'ef- John Woods, Allegheny, ,
101- I homai Stokely, Washington.
Whereupon, it was unaitimoufly agreed to re- w
c h, timmend and support the foregoing ticket at the . \
ow I t.hc r
Attest. J. BIDDLE, Chairman. '
DANIEL SMITH, Secretary. ™ rC '
, nc ' relum
, u . Frtm llcG(neral Awtertiser of , 1792, ""! 6
'"j Pub, 'ifl>" i b Benjamin Franklin Bachk. blifht!
blc " a uecon^,c 'e r atien of the various advantages ana tQ
h J which have been derived to United America from "lied
the operations of the Federal Government, there
cannot be a friend to his* country, that will not ex- All
I ert every neivc to perpetuate such great and solid a '
benefits : but more particularly are the people of f roI « 1
■ t 1 f.NNSYLVANiA called upon to invigorate i fyf. tains ;
! Cm ' ,hat has ln f u P cnor a degree contributed to "ant c
re a : There i, nc ea ll,„g, B0 frnfet nants,
id J 10 ". "f if' that bus not experienced its pro- a "d I
f s t'" oui '"f""'Ct. r ,he en
t. woun^
of From '^ e St - vhriflopher'i Royal Gazette Four 1
re BASSETERRE, (St. Kitt's) September „ f""
m On Sunday lali departed this life in the 61 ft year r '
a of his age, the hon. Archibald F.fd.ille, Efq Pre i V'
it fident of his Majrtfy', council ofthi, ifl a „d and •" 1
f- commander in chief for the time bring. The corn C °'" a '
a mand of the leeward islands devolving on ,h e hon
3 - John Smith Ihomas, Efq, a.oldest Counfellur, he GAZE '
■t was actually sworn in on Tuesday last.
A vefTel which arrived this day from Martinique P
. brings intelligence, that the fleet froii, England The
Barbie a arrived at' laware,
fn,.ad ?, 22d mft : aud that a dmiral Colpoys's Septem
n ed Th' ■ 4, °r° o l WCre hourl y Br 'g
ed. The captaur of the above vessel fays, that in A iar
. his way yesterday from Martinique, he saw i - fail ,he Ca P
dos vessels between Guadaloupe and Montferrat. her H
3 About two iL 0 , ner malt
s > fired on tl eaV rr iu f enoon an alarm was and on t
r , u e u V<;£r^ be,n 2 difcfrned - We f G p. mad.—A
P m obe the ships belonging to Jamaica am °ngti
r that came out with admiral Bligh. ' ral Waft
- Field Marftial Clairfayt once tr.ore at The head of
the A uftrian army on the Rhine To V, " r wate. oi
him to resign the command in chiW e f thatYrmlln C ° lOU ','
pears to u. on.! of the gr.atcft fault- committed
the cou.fe of theiprefent extraordinary war- 2S th! a
eminent talents and great experience 0 f that ger, c . board^t
—' n '» fared Germany last year by the mod /kff
ful manoeuvres, am] whose name struck as much
terror into the Republican! as it inspired confidence
into the Austrian troops under hii orders.
• WILMINGTON, (Del.) Oflober t».
' f PUBLIC NOTICE.
e that r WH ® REA J a tertlin young man, calling himfelf
i j [ HvDe ' was * m P io r fd by the Editors of
,r had the Delaware and Eafteru-Shore Advertifcr to collect
, finoe lulitcription money, &c. clue to the fame, and for this
Bulls, P llr pofe went down the Peninsula on the oth day of
August last, where he made collections to i. confidera
bje amount •—And whereas the time appointed for
his return elapsed near fix weeks ago, the i'ubfciiters
"much fre b^.M me aß * iou * for tl) e frfetv of laid Hyde, unwil
i . „ bny&U to fufpeil him of basely betraying his trull,
and going off with the money. Allow the nth of
pro- last month he was at DucWrerk Crifs Roads; since
wheat which time he has not been heard of. Whoever will
; and a pprcliend him, or in orm the Editor! of said paper
he in- JJ' T ' le ' s > belides the latisfaiSioa they must feel in
napping the career or f<> dangerous and base an enemy
to lociety, will receive the fineere thanks of the Edi
tois, and be chearfullv reimbursed any expence they •
90 10. may incur 011 the occasion.
°* • :a ' d was h °m in England, is but a few ]
ulh. months in this country, and taught school near Wil- .
mington u about s feet, 9or re inches high ; has 1
an agreeable countenance ; (hort, lightish coloured '
hair ; Mp S a little j is well fpokeu, and somewhat -
commanding or authoritative in his address; is ftronp
an ! adhve. He wore a light-blue cloth c«at, round
hat. &c. SAMUEL & JOHN ADAMS.
BY THIS DAY's MAILS. J
NEW-YORKTcVSoher ,q. *
No Eastern m lil this day. Passengers in the stage
fay there 1* no further information refpeftinir the
French fleet off Halifax.
The celebrated but unfortunate, Chevalier d'Eon,
who has recently attracted the public attention by j'
he. laudable endeavori.to support herfelf, has been ,
difftaying her lkill before a cro»d«d and genteel V
company in the rooms at Southampton. An un.
fortunate accident damped the pleasure which the -
general admiration of her skill had excited. The ~~
toil of her antagomft breaking as (he parried, it en
tered four inches above the right breast. The com
pany present seemed to take'a lively part in the p
ci- misfortune of the Chevalier, but medical afliftance '
ta - was at hnnd, and it is hoped the wound may not
'ons be o.„ger ow Lnudon
of Ihe council of elders has rejefied the refolytion
tjg 6 of th.-council of five hundred, for paying a small A
pan of the demands of the Hate creditors in specie •
the 0 ,hxt ' hl f, ur,hfl PPy t-lafs of men, many of whom E 1
the ave a s" all y dlcil tor w a»t of the common necefTa
itv TZ r' 3rC aga ' n lift thc m ° a deplorable ilate
r j£ of dtilref*.
' of Some observations of Maillet Lacefte, a French »
;a, W ['. ter ' c] , Wlth lkufe rf markable expreflions,
red c " I m l Y <W«ribe the present state of thc
nation.
CC
on V" ;<,e B ur history into two parts ; examine o
|B _ only the annals of the interior, and we are the low- Y
el. ot all people ; call yout eye on the journal of
0111 armies, and we arc the firtt nation in the world. ,
— Honour, then, be to Vi&.iry."
Some printed accounts from Vienna, by way of P '
I nefte, represent thc aids offered to the Emperor
by the Hungarians, as far beyond any former state- I
mem ; the auxiliariei from that kingdom only (it is pril
arc to , bc "'"reafed to 150,000 men, including upc
50,000 cavalry, which the Hungarians were to pro
vide with forage, &c. The
Ihedivifion of the French which has en'eted
Mini leh amount! to 22.000 men. ThSfcle&or has
tied tor a pease ; but, as a preliminary, a contribu
tion haibeen demanded of thirty-two million! of
norms.
PARIS, September ?.
e - „ . bulletin.
«v. r " re L l ' vfo ' mcd b y ' ctcer s of a late date, that
the trench have re entered Nuremberg, which they Ma;
had evacuated, in confluence »f the affair of Neu
marck, and that the Sambre and Atfeufe army has , *
relumed the politions which it occupied on the cth
and 6th. r l he head quarters are again at Bambetg.
Otner tetters inform us, that the French have efta- r
bl.lhed, notwithstanding the effons of the Aullri- T
cs ana to prevenrthem, a battery upon the heights Chel
n called ijv/inbiache. 6
e September to. a l
c Alexander Berthier, general of d.vision, has sent k %\
d a lift of the prisoners taken by our troops i„ l ta |„ d
,f from the third to the ninth of August. It cou-
f.j tains general prince Belkin, 3 colonel!, 4 lieute
„ nant colonels, y majors, 59 captains, 66 lieute
r nanta, 25 sub-lieutenants, 33 ensigns, 1 adjutant,
and 13,450 non-commissioned officers and foldien • „
the enemy have also 7 or 8,000 men killed or
wounded, and loft a great number by desertion.
tour hundred horses belonging ,0 the Hulans, 82 A
pieces of artillery, and 210 ltore waggons have LAN
been taken. bb one n
r Jourdan is about to aft on the offenfire. His
head quarters are at Cheweiufurt, a town in Fran
. COI " a " f I'd Ser.tintlle.J O&
; S/,zeTTS or TH E united states marine list.
p m-LAD £LP Hi' J, October 21.
• The brig Betsey. M'Crea, arrived at Port Penn, De-
Ssar""""" '»"• •'« sr.
Brig Ann, Cowperthwait, from Russia, i, below "ol
A largefh'p and 3 brigs, we re fee), ftlnding —
the Capes, last Wedneiday. 0 "a
The iloop Prudent, bound to Teneriffe, carri d awav Sit ,V 7
her mail m the latitude of Bermudas, on the inth Seot
and on the 15th imt. was in Hampton Road ViUTa \
ad—About x 9 fail go t «ut of the Capes last Mondav • Cll
raTw g ft c " c (b'P 5 Hambwrgh Packet, Aurora, Gene-
Waflimgton, brig Sally, &c.
r;ff c :r u r fl ey - ti,e bris J en "y» fr ° m T?n C - oa„
the 7th Augu.., Sept. 2, lat. 20, 23, Jong.r
69, favv a wrwk, the letters MORE out of The
wate. on her Hern, which was pa i n , cd of a crtam
] r C " rta " lS ' 3 " d Whi,e " reak riiU ' ld
gunnel, her water-ways a»d inside of the taffrei PI »'"
red, Cdes turpentined, a small head with creen Sittin S
drapery a nicc laid quarter deck, no person on
board, blowing frefl. impolTibl# to boar.l her. | ""ffi
»
nofl ftfl. September 30, Ut. 3 j, it, lon*. 73, spoke t4«-
*s much j (loop Lovma, from St. Domingo, for New Lon
nfidcnpe don, out j days*
October 1, spoke brig Sally, of Baltimore, front
Sr. Bartholomews, 14 days; fmce saw a number
B , °f vedeJa on the coast working to windward.
On the 15th of September, admiral Cr Hyde
himfelf Parker, in the Quees, of 90 guns, vice-admiral
litoi-6 of of the red, with the Valinnt, of 74 gun*, arrived
1 colled! at Barbadoes and failed the next day. They had
tor tins parted a fleet from Ireland, under the convoy of
r.lidera- adm,rai B1 'g h » vvho arrived there oa the 25th, in
ited for a 4°g u nf"'gate, with 26 fail of trarifports.
fciibers _ New-York, Oflobersj.
unwil- _ _ Arrivals at this port. Days.
is trull, Ship Friendship, Orange London —
ath of Amfterdatn Packet, Henderfan, Glafrnw sS
i since Ai ■»«, Seaman Cadiz —.
Vvc'r & "'"'if' 1 S;o " Guadeloupe —
feel in • Schuoner !■ ri'-ndfhip, Goodrich Anguilla
enemy Hero, rsrnham Liverpool 3S
e Edi- Blazing San, Leonard St. Croix g
f they Sloop Brothers, Fairchild Jamaiea J?
Ship Hare, of New-Yprk, Capt. farrier, from
rWiT Bat "!' a » was f P the English channel, bound
' ; has" v " a ® JUr S h - Shf P F °*> of and from New
loured boun < 3 to Hamburgh, wa» spoke in lac. 40,
ewhat 3®> lo"g- 6, 42.
strong Norfolk, October 20.
round ARRIVED.
US. Ships.—Polly and Nancy, Smith, Liverpool;
J Hannah Fryer, ditto; Indultry, Vickcry, ditto j
Jane, Noble, Cadiz; Sifters, Eveleth, Grsnada.
_ Bng,.—Chance, Almy, St. Bartholomews ;
Eag'e, Gamble, Cape-Francois; Swift, Luke,
stage ®°"* Vl(k * Pe Sgy» Whidbio, Cape-Nichola
glUC Schooner.—Bet fey, F.irbank, Cape-Nickola-
Eon, , 1 Fai ' P ia y. Williams, Jamaica ; Nelly, Brown,
Jti bv i CrCn,IC T ' J? ne ' Welj b. Jamaica ; Marcus Moudr,
been n' Bct %' '"»fon, New Providence ; Sal
nteel y ', oberts ' Jamaiea. '
i un- Sloop.—William, Rogers, Nevis.
1 the 11 ■»——g
THE PANTHEON,
C °th' And RlcKErTS ' s Amphitheatre,
e For Equestrian and Stage rierfeimances. Corner as
a "« Chefnut and Sixth-streets.
not
r. THIS EVENING, Odlober aa,
ition Will be presented,
A variety ofpleafingEntertainments.
hom Equestrian Exercises—by Mr. Rickctti, Mr .F. Rickctts
efTa- Master Hutchins, and Mrs Spinacut*.
ate Clows to the horfemaufhip—Mr. Stilly.
(For two nights only)
■nch ic , Tl Afler whlc h will be prefenred,
A Scotch Pastoral Dance, under the dirtflion of Mr.
j ' Durang, called
thc The CALEDONIAN FROLIC.
n J ne Principal Characters
ow- Durang, Mrs Tompkins and Mrs. Durang;
llof STILL VAULTING.
ir l d HORSEMANSHIP.
Mr F. Ricketts will pick up a watch from the
ground blindfold, the horse in full speed.
Ground and Lofty Tumllinv.
:ror EQUESTRIAN EXERCISES.
By Mr. Kickeits, who will perform fcveral fur.
it is prising and fportimanlike leaps, over one and two bars
nig upon two and three horses.
>ro- And, for two nights only,
The whole to conclude with a New Pantomime, called
led mirth'smedle y,
has Or, The Magic Pie.
bu- Harlequin, M r, Sujly
-1 of Pantaloon, Mr. Durane.
Lover, Mr. Tompkins. 1 4
D " arf \ Master Hutchins.
1 Speaking Witch, Mrs. Tompkins.
2nd Ditto, Mr. Collie.
Clown, Mr. Spinacuta,
■ . Columbin «. Mrs. Spinacuta.
,ey Magician, Witches, &c. by the reft of the company,
eu- % * Pantomime to conclude with a Dance,
las , * ladies and Gentlemen who secure leats in
■th ' he^ a y are requcftctj to, attend punts ually at 7,
' as the performances are so arranged as to conclude by
8* 10 o clock—the doors will open at 6.
'a- Box, 7s. 6d—Pit, 31.
»- _, T ' cket * t0 he had of Mr. Ford, at the ticket office ill
Us Chdnut-flreet, from ten to three o'clock each day.
, Tickets, to adroit for the fesfon, to be had
by applying to Mr. Picketti at the Pantheon, or at Oei
lers's Hotel.
HI A Ev^ ng « f P " f ° rm3nct t0 b « Monday, Wednef
tly day, Thursday and Saturday.
u- —-
e- Sheridan's Dictionary,
MS SIXTH MBIT/ON,
"1 Is this Day Published,
» Br IV. roUNC; MILLS & SON,
Corner of Second and Chefnut streets,
n. In one large Zvo. volume, price X dollars
LANMABH Y E h W^ nON ' !IRY ol the ENGLISH
P. E i bo r th w,lh to found and meaning,
one ream objed of which it to eftabliih a ph„, and per
i* aZfod^»lr'° nWnC " £ion - J9 wh ' ch »P"«x=d,
r " na U Br THOMAt SHERIDAN, A. M.
October iz. .
tt&B
lost, yesterday7~*
A Note of Hand,
Given in favour of William Wright by John Curt;,
{ar £ '30, or thereabout,. Al! n,rfo,K %r, „
against receiving said Note in payment—lf fßund'"^
' Sr
It. can be of no use to any „ne but the owner. ' '
, r ~2±. 22 - 3 FOHN CURTIS.
Will be Landed on Monday next
the brig Fame, Captain Knox,
. A quantity of Barbadoes Rum & Sugar.
For Sale by
■ oa. k r„. Kearny Wharton.
—— J6
lodgings.
WANTED TO RENT
Plainly furniflied, (bedding excepted) a P, r V.,r
Sitting Roam, two Bed-Cnambcs .» 1 = x ! ° cr
I o<2.obcr %%,
I 1 r d■ , : THIS DAY PUBLISHED, t
~hy J. ORMP.OD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet,
¥ (Price 12 »-2 Cents) j
The Pre SIDE NT's A D DRE SS
To the People of ths United States, • A g el
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
at.the expirati&n of the prefcrtt conftitutlon&r term of R •
jgr Tr Juicy. .
SetfanLer 20. d
~ _ 7 FL
Watson's Answer to Gibson.
JUST RECEIVED,
?Vnd for iale by J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet, £
Apology for Christianity, JjJ
hi a ferlct of Letters, addrejfed to Se
Edward Giebon, Es(j_.
.r the Hiftpry 01 the Decliue and fall of the
Roman Er,!; ;re: %
lii" R. WATSON, D. d. F.ti.s. Bilhop of LandafT.
> fl'rice 7.5 cent* bound) -T
Watson's Anfvver to Paine, • e P#
]
To be had at the fame place. #
C.jc enemies of .-Religion are awake ! Let not her (
"friends fietp.
. jy-nt.,l, . . mw&ftf 2 ' (
Philip Nicklin & Co. £
HAVE FOR.SALE, 200,
Sduchofif; -
Hyson Skin )
Young Hyson FRESH TEAS »1*
Hyson and \ 4Ci
..Imperial " —
Yellow Nankeens 63,$
China Ware, afTorted in Boxe* and Chests
Qujekfifver in £
Baadann'o Handkerchiefs of excellent quility in "*°
ehefti forc
London Market , } MADEIRA WINE |° f
* London particular >in pipes-, hoaffaeads, &•" '
New-York Market J quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogf*eads con
Sugar Candy by the Box ma ,
Sail Canvas No. x a 8 ( - on j
Lead 111 iheets
.3 Calks of Ciitlery afTorted J
"A few thefts of Manchester Goods, alTbrted.fhick
fets, cords, striped Nankeens,_&c.
3 SmMl packages of black sewing-silks
ii Tierces Virginia Snake-roat.
Nails afTorted hi' calks
t "July tS mw&f
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the beji quality and on reafon'able terms, ■
ITJJ It SALE Br ' TA
Philip Nicklirl y Co. c "?.
August 16. d'tf .
'For Hale, ">«
AThree-ftory BRICK HOUSE anif L«t, m Chefnut me i
ftrcet, between Front and Secdrid ttrsets, in which' an
Messrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on befinels. 0
PolTeffion will be givefl in one month, or fdofter.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BELL, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH. < t " c
April ai ■ J__ a Pr
A Manufactory FOR SALE. pr<
A Vaiuable SOAP and CANDLE Manufactory, 1
;n a convenient part of the city ; the; works almost new, ; j acc
on an entirely original conftru&ion, and built of the Left. k°*
waterss, and may be set to work immediately, Persons tog
v/Hc wilh to purchafej are requested to apply at No. 273, at 1
South Second Street.
13. t t f tf the
Brokers Office, and |"]
COMMISSION STORE. : jg
N®. 6 1 South Third {lreet,oppofitethenatioiitl new Bank. , ■
SAMUEL M FR \UNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnerlhip, tinder the firm of
& VAN REED, ill the bup.nefs of Brokers, ing
Conyeyanttrsaiid Commilfion nierchants. They btiy and _
fell on commifEon everyipecies of Hock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
Money procured on deposits, &c. See. all kir.ds c' "N,
the conveyancing lidc, done with neatfiifsand J
difpatcjj; accaonts. adjuiled, and books fettled, in the jof
jnoft correit manner. Constant atfendance wU be given. ;p"
They solicit a lhare of the p'lMic favor ; they are deter- I
mined to endeavour to deserve it. 4 8
N. B. The utmo/l ai^
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES, *")
JOHN VA'N , pu
Philatl. AUgr;ifl: 27 ? 17q6. jm&wtf P^
Treasury I3epartment,
September 28, 1796.
"\TOTICE it hereby given, that propofats will be it
_i > eeived at the office of the Secretary of the Treasury "
BBtil the e*piration of th- firft day of March next en- "
fu'.ng, for tkefupply of all rations which may he required "
for the use of <he United BtatSs, frotf. the firll day of "
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1798, both "
aays inclusive. at the places and.within the di(lfi£ls h_re- "
Kjter imentioned, viz". At Ofwego; at Niagara; at "
Patftjue lfle; at -Sand'aiky Lake, and on Sandufky "
Rival- -, at Detroit; at Michilimacirinae; at Fort-Frank- "
-lin--, at Piftihurgh ; at Cincinpati; at Fort-Harailton-; "
at Fort St. Clair; at Forr-Jv'f-Vrfon; at Grenville; at "
Pietjue Town and I.oramics Store; at Fort Adams; at
-Fprt Wayne ;at fort D.efiarice ;at any place bslow Fort - r '
on t-ie Mianli River to*Lalfe Eric; at tort ni
Stauben ; at Fort Maffas ; at j|pp place from Fort MaiTac Jc
to the south boundary of the Unitad States on the river P 1
1 Mjffivippr; at Fort Knox ;at Gniaunoft. C 1
x If supplies ihall be required ior any pofls or places not ' s
nietitioned in this notice, all such supplies shall be fur- g
uilhcd at prices proportioned to thofe'to be paid at the
polts before 'recited, or as may be hereafter /greed cn 1
between the United States and tjie. Coptra&or.
The rations td b<r fupplicd are to confiiJ ps the f®l
lowtng articles, viz. /<
One pound two ounce* of bread of flour. 0
One pottnd two ounces of -s:ef, or fourteen otiitces of f
pork or bacon. '' I
Half a gtiljii rum, brandy rr whilkej'. \
Ore quart *nd half a pint of salt."> 1
Two quarts of Vwejpit, C per httndre4 rations a
T wo pounds oft S<jin, ( 1 r
pn. poutul of Cfitidk'S, J> 1
'Ihe radons are to be.turruiiid in inch quantities, Ss'that t
there ibali at all tir.ics duriiif; the said term, be fufficient I
.lor the eonfuTfiptionofthetroopT at Michilimackinac, De
troit, 1* i'.'.gara, and Ofwego, far the term of fix niohths in
advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
s"t least three months lii advance, in good a»d wholesome
1 j)iovifions,if the fame feall be renuired. It is tQ.beun
<jerfto4d, that the ContrSSor is to !>e at the exyence and
ri& of i{fuingtJ*e fupplijs to the troops attach post, and
that all loffesTyftained by tHe depredations of an enemy, or
bv n leans oi" the troops of the United States, {half be paid
far atihe price of tht arricks captured or destroyed, on
the depofitior.s os-two ormbrc persons of creditable clia-
Yaiters, and die ccrtiScatc of a com:ni3ioncd officer, af
certaiuing the circttnifianccs of the loss, and the amount
th- ait;cle6 for which comj rnf&iim Aa 11 be claimed}
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Seerstary of the Treaft ry.
;' ' *
1 JOHN MILLER, fun. & Co.
j No. -8, CUES NUT STREET, At
Have Imported in thc.late vefiV'.s from Euroj#, •
HAVE 10R SALE, ■
A geiseral affortraent of GOODS, fuitablc to tlie fcafon— Coi
which are, ol
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS, .
Plain and twill'd COATINGS,
Rofc striped aed point BLANKETS, °*
FLA.NNELS and BAISEii, Jf"
liA'l'S affortud in cases, '
IRISH LINENS, tor
INDIA GOODS, generally, mc
A Confijjned InA»ice of IRONMONGERY, an
' CohiprifiHg a capital aflortment to open a {lore —iuclu- *
ding Thirty Catfk> of NAILS. This'invoice wilf be fold on
entire i;n very advantageous terms. _
September 20. . _ d \
Lottery \
f. POR railing fix thoufind fix hundred and fixtf-feven
i? dollar 1 ; aadfiUy cents, by a dcdudlion of fifteen per j'.
; cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a priz.a. viz
I Prize of S.OOO dollars:. doiUf 5000 J. 1
x 1000 1000
r 1 S° o SO o(y
5 SCO 10CQ it ' ;
_ | io io„ icOo w
99 JO 4950 b;
200 1.5 5.900 nc
zooo 10 ao.ooo
, 5 Last drawn number, of 1000 dollar: e»ch, 5900
" he
Prizes.. 44i45<> co
4018 Blanks. Ll f
63J0 Tickets at Seven DollarseaA, 44.45 a ; u
By,ord<r of the of the Society for cftabliih- j;
tng IXeftr! Manui'aS4res, the fuperintendants of the Pat- f a
j n erfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the j..
forogoing Sriietne to the public,- ahd have diredled tl,em j 0
to refund the money to those persons who have pur?hafed w
— in the former Lottery, or exchange tie Jicketi for titJtseSs t0
in ai
The lottery has aStially commenced dfawing, and will
continue until firiilhed. A lift of the Blanks and Prizes t0
may he seen at the office o( William Blackburn, No. 64 p (
sooth Second ftrcet, wio will give information where tick- t(
its may bs procured. er
oated this 17th day of June, 1798. „
k - J. N- CUMMIXG, q,
JACOB R. HARDENB&RQ, >-Managers, fu
JONATHAN RHEA, J n<
dtf eo tr
1 — —— ' ~ la
Samuel R'chardet, |j
Respectfully informs the Gentlemen 0 :
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the to
city of Philadelphia. • ' ' ei
- The Subscription Room will be furni(he4,>vith ail the th
_ dally papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, Bos- w
ton, Baltimore, together with these of the principal corn- vt
u mercial citiiss of Europe—They will be regolarly tiled
"e and none perriiitted to be taken aWay on any account. w
C a Tei, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety bi
' of French I.iquors; together with the usual refrelhments, tl<
will at all times be, procured at the bar. tt
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with o
the choicest of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most
approved Malt Lhfbors fropiLondon and otfier breweries. R
— The Larder will befupplied withlhe prime and earliest
productions of the Sealon.
. te ! Large and small Parties, or finals Gentlemen, may be
" Wi ! accommodated with 1 Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at P
hours most convenient to thtnifelvcs--a cold Collation is
10s regularly kept for conveniency, the Billof Fare to be had tc
13, at tha bar. E
The Lodging Roortrs will be completely furniftied, aad ; r
the utmost attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
' requisite. y
j 0- Samuel Richardet will behappyto receive, and j
execute the commands of his Frit'nds, and the Pubhl at
, large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges „
'k- oifclf that nothing 011 his part lhali be wanting to pre
; fervethat patrsnage with Whieh hehasbeen so diftinguilh- c '
ingly Jtcriorsd.
TS .' Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
nd — — 1 1 1 —
nd ' Treaiury of the United States.
' "VTOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
nd IN may he Creditors of the United States, for any sums >
the of the FurM Debt, or Stcei, hiring a frefent hiUnJi of Jix \
en '■ per centum per annum. . J,
e -_" j ift, That purfiiant tb an A& of Coogrefs paflid on the
l?th day of April, I796,intitlcdan ail in addition to an
aA, intituled " An adl inaking further pfovition for the
support of public cr«dit, and for the redemption of tire
public debt," the said debt or itock will be reimbursed and
paid ia manner following,to wit. " Firfl, by dividends
— " to be made or. #Ie last days of March, June and Septenv
" ber for the present year, and from the year onethoufaud
" feve.n hundred and nincty-feven, to the year one thou
r<;- " sand eight hundred & eighteen inelufive,at the fate of
ur "y " one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
en . " Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day cf
re j " December for the present year, and from tlie year One
of " thoufar.d seven hundred and nincty-feven, to tha year
ot h " one thoufend eight hundred aud seven teen inelufive, at
re . « the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
at " ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma eon the last
,Ik,. « day of December, "in the year one thousand eight hun
nt_ " dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then aJe
on-- " quate, according to the contrasSl, for the final
at " tion plthe said Hoc If."
at zd. All diftinSion between payments on account of -
?ort Interef. and Principal being thus aboliflied by the cftablilh- :
i ort nient of the permanent rule of 'reimbursement Stbov« de- f
ilfac Jcribed, it has become neceflary to vary accordingly the 1
ivar powers of attorney for receiving dividends ; the public '
creditors will therefore observe that the following form '
not is eltablilhed for all powers of attorney which may bs '
fur- granted after the due promulgation ol this notice, viz. '
: the ° UNO It' ALL MEN ST THESE PRESENTS, that '
cn I . of
da tfidU, conjlltuie ahd appoint
ffll- 6j- my true and Lrtuful At
torney, for me, dud in my nam:, to recaivt the dividends ivhiefi are,
or Jhall he payable according to low, on the (her* describing the ,
C 3 'of ftotk) jhindihg In my name in the (here dcidfibmg the
book* of the Treasury or the Commifliohcr of Louns,
where the flock is credited) from (here nlfevt the com
mencement and expiration ot tkae for which the power of
attoi'ncy is ;o corttinac) power an akerpejr or atfir
tlC>n> „ifj undif htm, for that tQ make andfunjhtutc> andt» do all
lawful ads requijit'for rfftcVing thepremifes, hereby ratifying and
5 that confirming all thai my said Attorney ct bisfukJlituteJbaH ia-ufui
cient ly do, by virtue hereof.
I>e- ' In Witness hereof \ I lave hereunto set try Hand and Seal the
;h'i in day of in the
m of Sealed ana Delivered
;fome it prefenc^of,
»e un- I T KNO WN> that on the day of
e and efore meperfonally came
, and ivithin named and acknowledged the above Ultef of attorney to he
r.y, or his aft and d>ed.
e vyaid In tefti worry •whereof J have bercunfo set my Hanimnd affix
•d, 011 id Seal the day andyear last ufcToj'aid.
e clia- Given tVidsr my Hand at Philadelphia, this txven
cr, as- tieth as July 1796, pqrfiiartt to oiredions
nount from t}>c Secretary of the Treasury
rd 3 SAKIUEL MERf DITH,
t lrtqfurcr rf the United States.
>ry. j
Loft Lalt Evening,
At Ric!-'tts's Amphitheatre, (fuppofcd to be taken by
iome villain out of a gentlemin's pocket)
A red Morocco Leather POCKET-BOOK, -
Containing about 185 dollars in bank notes; throe notes —
of hand of Rofsand Simfon, No. j324i 305 and 306, da
ted I2th.|sft Augult, payable 60 days alur. dat'-> to the
order of Paul Sierae'n, together for 51.50 dollars; anorquf
of Mrs. Ann Vacphcrl'on, from Paul Siemen, 011 Lach :
Un Mac Njeal, Esq. at Port-au-Princo, [of 100 dollars; l>c
fidts leveral. letters and papers, of 110 ufv but to the propric- Soft
tor. The notes of Iran*) and order arc without endorse
ment. EIGHTY. DOLLARS RpWA&D is< offered to
any perfsn who will dilcover ana ftcure the thief, and ,
. FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
] oned notes and papers at-No. 129, corner of Front and °|
M'ulbcrrv ftrictn. . d . Oct. 11. |
1 ' <
- so the Meidiant's of the United States. ]
TN the ye;ar 179.1, a French gentleman at Bourdeaux,
1 fliipped on.boaM an American vefTcl ICo toils ol rner
" chandizc, to be delivered at Cape-i v ra»cais, either to
f.imfetf far hi, orders. The captain figntd the bill of la
ding; amiiuftead of proceeding to Cape'Prancais, wen-t
0 diredlly tb Aux-Cuyes; and there, instead of depofrting
0 the whole ps the said in the hands of the admiral
0 ty, or any other person authored.by law, he concealed
° its belonging to a F.'Culli gentleman, and Ibid it, ;
0 withSut "orders, power, or authbrif/, as belonging &,
0 bimfeli. After remaining five months at A-ux-Cayes, and
not being able tel.lei the whole ®f laid merchandize, he
0 left twelve tKcjuknd dollar* worth'of unfold 111 the
0 hands of an at faiu-place ; ol which
~ he passed a pretffided l'r.le, for fear ttat tins owner lhould
0 come and claim it, or have it months
after his departure from Bourde iux, tile said captain ar
rived on the.Suitiuent, where the owner of said catgo
a had gone in pursuit of him. He produced his bills of la
ding, invoice, &c. and demanded their content,. Th« fitii
said captain rnlwered that he diel not ki:ou him* that he lift
l£ had lie papers, Sic. he was arretted, and gave security Oc
11 for his appearaacc. After eiglr.ecn months, during 01,
ewhif.h the feiicaptain had been urged to leave the affair
to arbitration, to which he would "never confeut ; Lutjuft y,
as the {Jiperior court were about tu pronounce juSgilieiit, -J t
liis attorney, &c. infilled that this buiuicls ihoi'.ld be left ,•.
®. to arbitration. The said owner, at the reque'l of many
4 pcrfon-, at last iHrtfented 30 this new arrangement. *i he
*" court appointctttive arbitrators, of which notice was giv
en. them ten times, put «!f the five, I'eirce three mat to
gether at a time, twiijpin £*. months, Iho' earncftly re- a j
qnettcd to da'it. —The' arliuators decide, tint not being *•>{
5. furnilhed With fufiicienf proof, 011 each/ide, they touKl
not cofne.tea finaldecifion. >"his feutciVce was patted at tcr
the momt|t when the court wa, lifting, when it was too _J
~. late to have the cause detffoiined.lr/ the present court; so
it mutt fee poftponcd another fix months, which will make I
thirty months, detention iq obtain iipon a-oid
n of lading, invoice, Sit. j ■
Y ' The arbi£ratofs,j[ecide, that a bill of lading, itltoite, &.C. \
ie l to which, tlw captain makes no olqetition, are riot a lulli-
Cient proof for condemnation. The laid proprietor will , '*'
le thank, any merclunaof the United States to ixiforni him
f- what further proof it will be neceflwy to .pre-. . tw
1-1 vent another detention of thirty months.
:d N..,iSv;At -New-York, a- charge <>f a similar natura : .
witl.oijjt.any prooi than was
y brought againtt the fame c3jJtairL.byi laiothcr J reuch g'*u
s, tltman ; which Was deci.'.ed by,three arbitrators, in fit-, .
teerf*days ; and said capjtkin was condemned to pay with-- •
h out reply—which he drvi.
ft -\qy.cdntmunicA~ion on t,h« above lubjeil, adJrGlTsd to
s. Race-llreet, No. 90, will be thankfully received,
ft Philadelphia, pft. ,17 3^
,c UNITED STATES, 7 rr
at PeiißfyJvanifl ©iftrift. § ■£>'
is NOTICE is hereby given, that pursuant to a writ
id t0 nib, direifted from 'the honourable Richard Peters,
Esq. Judge of the DiftriiVCourt of the United States,
in and for the Pennsylvania Diftrifl, will be fold at
er public l'ale, at the Custom-House floras, in Front, below
Wilnut-iireet, on Monday the -24tii inlt. at Li o'clock
'. a't noon. dt
thirty bags coffee, 2
" The fame libelled againtt, prosecuted, and
1 condemned as foi.eited in the said Diftriiit Court. j,
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Marflial. - th
Marthal's Office, Bth of Odfober, l/fy 6.
Win. HOLDERNKSSE,
=r No. 76 High Street,
ns TTAS received, b)' the latest arrivals from Europe and
'* iTI the haft Indies, a well felefled aCortiiicnt of Silk
Mercery .Linen Drapery and Haberdafliery Goods; which
' lt he will fell, Whole!ale and Retail, oil the loTveft terms ; _
*" AMONGST WKICH ARE,
; Some fine ladia mullins embroiiiered with gold and Ever
" ' Superfine Book, Jacontt, and Mulmul ditto
3 , Do do do do Handkerchiefs
Sfme extra black taft'eties,luteftringsand colored Pcrfians
ll " Bandano Hantflterchiefs th
Long and lhort Nankeens
u ". Knglifn Mantuas of tiir tirftquality th
° Damaik tabil linen arid napkins, Very fine b<
' Silk Hosiery, an elegant alfortmiint ti
01 Thtad and cotton do ti
~ Umbralla.-—green flik, oil'd do. and do cloth P
:aI Ffeucii cambrics, very fine ej
3 } Iriih Linens, do. &c. &c. Tune 14 5
ri- ai
F 0 R S A L E. c
A PLANTATION,
ABOUT ia mUe« froi* this City, situate in Abhig-
ton Townlbip, Montgomery-County ; containing '
*h- 70 acres, a new flune houfc, two florici high, 2 rooms on a
de- fire placcs cach, a (lone kitchcn and itonc spring
tFj.c houfc, over au excellent spring of .water, a barn, (tables,
s ii c fhtds, barracks, icc. A large apple orchard, and a variety oi
rm othcrtruit, about i 2 acres of good meadow well watered,
and wood' for firc,aud fencing the place. Polfdfii
on ipay be bad tht- id <>£ next. Property in this eky
, will he take, 1 , in or MOKRlSand
teat Notes in payment. Enquire at No. 37, Arch-Street.
Philadelphia, "cntemOcr 13, 179b. ttfrf 7
' To be Sold, f,
At No. 12S, North Stcoiul-Street-, aud by federal oj 0
t r e ' the Apothecaries in ibis Cl:y. 0
, n • of the riahtto remove pains and inflamrna c
' y *- tions from the humaii fxjdy, as secured to Dr HLJSMA a
\ P£RKINS, bv. pater*, with instruments and direfHons uc- j
11 cedary tor the -jraciioi-. This msde of tre?.tmcwL is particu-
'larly utefui in relieving pains in tne head, lace, teeth, brcaU, •
Ja " ftde, llomach, back, r.heumatifms, recent gouts, &.c. &c.
amt ilotwithftartding th<! utrlily of this pnaftice, it is not pre- c
•fui- Turned but there are .cases in which this and every othei N
remedy may sometimes fail.
I the June lj. law c
To be ciifpofed of, (
r j > ll£ time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
1 has between t#ur and five years to l'ervs: She '
can be recommended for her iobr iety and honesty. For
I" I" enquire at No. 132, Chefnut-ftreet.
Ansruft .1- w^ftf
affix- —
To be Sold,
lions Time of a f&ajt, active Negro Lad,
Who has Eleven years to fcrve.
, rs Enquire at No. 58, Sourh Front-Rrcct.
'j _ Odiober 18. J
tJniverlity of Pennsylvania,
OSober Si 1796.
The MaiicalLt&ures will commence the firft Monday
November. «avv»Jw;
■ — —
By Authority.
Schuylkill. Bridge Lottery. ' 1
— Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64,
Stuff) Secondjlrect.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
For raifmg Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an A&. of
the Legislature of Perinfylvaaia, patTed during the iait
leflion, for building a SCbrte Bridge over the River
Schuylkill, at the Borough of Reading, ia the County of
Berks. l>o,t a n.
, 1 Prize of 20,009 Dollars - # 2u,00«
1 do. of te.ooo do. - - lo.ooa
3 3 do. mf 5,000 do. - v' ts - • *kIOOP
4 do. of 2,000 do. - 4,000
f 20 do. of I,OGO do. - 000
§9 do. of tjQ\ do. - . 3®
80 do. of 260 do. - - i6,0c0
. 200 do. of 100 do. - 2!>-OCO
300 do. of do. - - 15,000
1 do. of 500 do to l>e paid the jjoflcf-)
j ''r iat the fit dra .v'm no, J
5 do. of 3,Cf00 do. to be p&td fjoftefTors }
otthe hvii iait drawn aoa ) % 6>°~°
9,400 do. of 15 do. : - 141.000
10,054. Prices
5 Kiauki . r
> 30,000 Tickets at Ten DolUts goo,ooo
AIF Prizes (hall be paid fifteen days aftet the dra wing. i»
5 finilhed, upon the/demand of a poirefloi of a fortunate
1 Ufjktjt, to deduction of twenty per cfc. f .
c , Drawing will comn>eiice a& soon as, the Tickets ar<ftdifpOfed
r of, O! ]. ciiiaps so )ner. of which public notice will t?e given.
r Philip Miller, Peter Kerjhner, William Witmajt,
1 fofipb Hitjhr, James Diemer, Thomas Dt/nJas,
' jeutns May, John Otto, _Jo/6n Kiim, Daniel Gra-jf,
MaWon Miller, Commissioners.
May tbe'gth, 17€jS.
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. 1, to be hscf it the
. above office, where the earlitil information of the driv
... iag of the Wa&ington Mo; a, aitd Patterfon l.&ftery'a,
'J .tr.e and checkbooks for examination and regif
tcring&re liept.
3 O&sfter 7. ' law tf
= W afiungtoft Canal Lottery,
,! „ !n t 0 . 1.
■ the State of Maryland has authorised
VV the underwritten, to rsifc twenty-fix thousand,
1 two hmidrid, aiid'fifty dollar., for the cutting
a a Ca;ial tfrfough th. City xii. Wafhingtofi, froxi th
tomacto theEailern Branch Hari>our.
The following is ;he SCHEME .of No. j. >
Viz -I Prize of 20,000 dollar., 10,000
j I ditto 10,060 10,000
7 lafl drawn )
Tickets, each J Uf^o,
. ® 6 ditto i.ooo 6,03 d
10 ditto ' 4CO 4,00 a
0 no ditto 100 2,C00
55 dittb 50 2,7 50
5750 ditto ri
•To be railed fur -he Canal, 26,250
5850 Prizes, 175,000
[. 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
s ' 17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 775,000
a t C"?' The Conimiffioners hava taken the Securities it
w Quired by the aforcfaid for the punctual fgyment of
the prizes.
The drawing of tins Lottery will commence, without
delay, 5s foo/i as tWr Tickets are fold, tff which timely
, Siotice will be given. '
1 Such prize* as are net demanded in fix months after th«
drawing is finiihed, fhatl be eonlidcrod as relinquished for
, 'the benefit of the Canal, and approprfatcd aecoriinj'lr
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D.
L-KVVIS HEBLOIS.
GEORGE WALKER,
!d Wit. M.DUNCANSON,
Ik THOMAS LAW, -'
:h JAMES BARRY.
Cttv of Walhin ' .oh, Feb. XI. ?
er Lottery and Broker's Office,
A'o. 64, South SscCnd street,
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery, No. 1, for sale—«
Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the liate lottery. , .
Ch\h Books kept for examination and r g-ifterin?,' fir
the City of Walhingron, No. 2, *nd Pa«tfon. Lotteries,
both of which are now drawing—information whtre
tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Publit; School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber solicits the implication of the public
— and his friends, who wish to purehafe or feli Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or -N Aes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
*.* Also I iekets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery for
sale at Ten Dolltrs each, Which will bp drtwil early i.
the Spring.
sis Wmi Blackburn.
ing Philadelphia, Auruff iS, 1 , 1 m th
C 5, " ■
•of r' 0 Ji SAL £,
nu A very Valuable Eitate,
/CALLED r WIT -r E A' H A M, CtMte in the
Vj towr.i'.ip of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
7 j-a miles from Philadelphia, and half a mile from the
— new Weftera road: containing 230 acres of oieel!cnt land,
45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime w®od
'and, "and the rell arable of tjw firft quality. Therj are
°J on the preniifoe a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
on a floor, aud cellars under the whole, with a pump-well
la of excellent wster in front j a large irame katn, liabks,
and other ennvecicut a iu*n.e a
MC " fpi iHg-hmrfe ; two good apple orchards, and one of peuch-
es. The fields are all in clover, except those ii»»nediately
' ur.der tillage, and areib laid out as to r,.,vu the advantage
lrc _ of water in each of them, whicti, renders k peculiarly con-
j lCl vcniuit for grazing.
* i lic Utuation is p'eafant and and from the high
v . eultivati&n of the land, the good and the
vicinity to the city, it is vary faitsble for a gentleman's
country feat,
0 The foregoing is part of the efiate of Jacob Harman,
jjj e deceased, and offered for sale by
For Mordecai Lewis,
OA. 9. tt&l' Surviving Executor.
PRINTED BY JOHN FEN NO,
ldj —No. 119-
GHESJiUT-STRHET.
[I*ric« Eight Dollars per Annua.}