#a?ette ./v& ®Httrt>£>taW,t? Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
WEDNESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 21, '79 6 - . 1 X '..
Nombsx i259.J ■ • _ ~t- . T>l „ Merchants andTrtiders
— — « 1 » >, AT Sn If* I . .. » r_ Vi C
r-a_ ' For NEW-YORK,
The ship LIGHTmRSE ' R<"
JggGa&r- To fail in a few days, «nd will take freight
very low Apply to, i Q jgpH ANTHONY, & Co. C af
September *o. d «__ — J
~ For Sale. Freight or' Charter, 1 D.it
_ The Ship General Washington, *
N«»- K " 1 , *ug
pool H3SPVnrf-*«ir 1"V u !
mg and may r>e lent to sea at a small
Mjxrni*i having been docked and refitted lu Liverpool. >
ApF * Kearny Whafton.
Who has for fate on bard faid (hip, ll
A few thousand Bulheljs Salt and Coal. m«c.
d 6 ne Wi
Sept. 19* •
j~~ For Charter,
| Su i
The Danilh Barque BineventuM, Do
Jc^fYjr Samuel Stub, rnifter, j Bal
eood vessel, of about two hundred Lo
tons burthen. ■ JESSE & ROBERT WALN. En
Se P l - J7 ~ . . Sil
- I xt
For liofton, ur
I&g&s The Schooner Olive, Jh
Drinkwater, matter, will pefi- I ,
tively fail en Tuesday the loth inft. /
having part of lier cargo engaged, for freight s pilUgc j
aP S^rt to lfi. No. 70, North water-ftrcet. J
u—e. FOR LONDON, j
t&St&MEk __Thf '-'r' |al n»if. t CLtvLS». i
To flil looK :—r °" r flight or pall.geT
to DAW, Co. or
"John Vaugbtin, I
' September 10. l-ront-ftreet. I 7 i
" for SAL ET W f
The Schooner LARK, j
One Hundred and twenty tons burthen. v
Jwi A new vessel well found, jvell built, & |
. fcils extremely fad. s For terms apply ,r ° s r
to the matter on board, or to —
Jvfepk Anthony t? Co.
If the above vessel is not fold in a few days, file will J
tale freight on very low terms for Boston.
Sept. 10. _ d I
for sale, ] Z
The {hip STAR,
SfiSPraW John Vannxman, Mailer,
T YING at Walnut-street wharf, Philadel- I e
" Lj pbia built, of live oak and cedar, will
eTrry about 3100 bawels, is two years old, and in com-
.
WKo have also for sale said vdiel6 of— I
Window Giafs, 6by 8 to >6 by IZ.
Pipes in boxes | i n
Earthen-Ware in crates.
Grindstones, Coal*, Whiting, &C.
AUg. 19 * j
"• At South-street wharf,"
WILL BE LAUDED, Friday. 19th inft Augufl, j
by snow Hope, from Jamaica, and fioop Sa "y> I
from Port-au-Prince,
•ioo Hhds. COFFEE,
-70 Hhds.SUGAR.
Also, the cargo of the Swcdijh brig Gujtaf Jdolphc,
eapt. Ramfre, from Gibraltar,
ift and 4th proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds. I
Hazle Nuts in sacks 7 I J,.
St. Übes SALT, far faleby .
PETER BLIGHT.
jf* For Charter,
Gustaf Adqlphe, r
A Swede, with a Maditerranean piss, J
a very fine yeffd, about 100 tons bur- j
then. A«g. '8 i'iweoiu-_ b;
nankeens,
Of the firji quality, FOR SALE BT,
J RD. and JAS. POTTER.
For any quantity above Five Thousand Pieces, a li- r
beral credit will be given. & J , p -
September 13. 1• " tl
INDIA SALES. ti
ON Thursday the 22d inft. at 10 o'clock, A. M. will
be fold at the store's of Willings and Franeis, a large, t
' qaafttity of INDIA GOODS, imported in the Ganges, <
from Bengal, confiding of
3090 pieces Gurrahs
>000 do. Baftas, different kinds
3500 do. Coffas, do.
450 do Hnmhums, do. ,
600 do. Patna hdkfs. for women '
100 ho. Addaties
80 do Table cloths
300 do. Emmies
go do. Punjums
380 do. Fine Mulmuls
•soo. de. Fine Dacca hdltfi
joo do. worked Mullinj
100 do. Dareas ■
100 do. Book Mullin
joo do. black and colored Perfhni or Taffetie*
1200 i}«. Bandannoes, chocaiate, red and blue
leo do. Choppa Romals
40 quarter caflts of Hyson Tea of goad qaality
40 Souchong
The coarse goods will be fold by the bale, the taffetas
andbsndannoeo in lots t» fait the purchasers. the teas by
the eheft. The whole is entitled to tke drawback,and will ,
be fold for approved notes, on alibcral credit.
The goods may be seen 15th inft. to the day
previous to the sale.
r ' JOHN CONNELLY, ASioneer.
September 8. d
To-be disposed of,
THE time of a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
his between four and five yeavs to serve r She
can be recommended for her sobriety and honesty. For
particulars enquire at No. 131, Chefnut-ftreet.
Auguft3. s w&ftf
French Goods.
Received ly the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-Je
t Grace, A tn
40 Trunks 1 Ls( i; es ' SHOES of all colors forts and foes
I j J
1 Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS So*
I Ditto Fine LAWN ton of
I D.ittobeft fine CAMBRIC App
I Ditto Ladies 1 bell ftiammy and.Orenoble Gloves
For Sale by THOMAS 3c JOHN KETLAND.
: — Sept
Wm. HOLDERNKSSfc,
No. 76 High Street, » -
HAS received, by the bteft arrivals from Europe and f\
the East Indies, a well feleftcd assortment of Silk Mc £ r .
1. Mercery, Linen Drapery and Haberdashery Goods; which now j
he will fell, Wholcfale and Retail, on the lowest terms; p o fl
amongst wuich are, p
Some fine India muslins emoroidered with gold and IHver
Superfine Book, Jacooct, and Mulmul ditto r
l Do do do do Handkerchiefs —
' Some «xtra black colored Petfiarrs
Bandano Handkerchiefs „
:d I Long and lhort Nankeens I J .
Englilh Mantuas of the finlquality
I Damaflc table linen and napkins, very fine aD '
— j Silk Holiery, an elegant assortment __ -, AU
I Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas —green silk, oil'd da. and do clsth
French cambrics, very fine si
Irilh Linens, do. &c. &c. June 14 » (
;jn 70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
•gc 1 Of the bejl quality and on reajonable terms,
1 i FOR SALE BY jf
et - j Philip Nicklin & Co. j
I August lb. !
The Cargo of the Polacre Independent,
"V c ; rhm
bon, landing at the lubfqnbers wbart—
or 1 ' 28 Pipes of Brandy °
18 Bales of Spanilh wool
3 do. of Ar.nifeed
7000 Bulhels of best Lisbon Sil'
80 Boxes of Lemons , The
j For sale by & FRANCIS.
j Seventy Hoglheads of prime JAMAICA Sl> GAK.S,
J received by the Ibip Dominick Terry, Capt. DeHart, JTX
"> 2_ A
CABLES,
Ffom 16 to 9 i inches, for sale by
_ Jeremiah Warder,
~ J j u ly 21 S No 12 north Third-flreet.
Washington Lottery. ji
I THE Twentieth and I'wenty-firft Days' Drawing of - —
,l_ 1 the Waikijigton Lottety, No. 2, are received at the office y
wil j j No. 2J4, Market-ilreet, where tkkets may be examined. J
I N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other ,
I lotteries may be procured.
j j September 15, df
Jf ~ ; — FOR SALEy —
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, $
[ in pipes and hoglheads —
I Claret, genuine old, in cases yf/
a J Gin, in pipes, from Holland (
I Earthen Ware, in crates
I Balkct Salt, in hoglheads
I Shot, No«. 6, 7, 1 and 9 T)
gust, j Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead t\
ally,! Steel, German and Raffia, in barrels btii
Anchors, ciblei, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas, of
Tiu plates —An invoice Stationary, by iat<
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND. cor
. . ( July •"> ? . P rc
P hc * THE PU BLIC to ;
1 IS hereby cautioned na{ to trust any person or —
j persons on my account, under any pretext whatever, as I
I (hall not pay such debts as may have beeu, or hereafter
I may be contradled without my knowledge.
THOMAS HOGGARD.
I Sept. 13. ttkfj
INFORMATION " 1
> J I*S given daily of the drawing of the WASHINGTON c f
piss, I LOTTERY, attheO'ffice an ,
bur- j A r t>. 147 Chef nut-Jlreet, ■ po
lw - between Fourth and Fifth ftreats. Also, where Tickets all
1.. j. Sent, re. ' _ tiff kc
Jfv The 20th and lift Days drawing it artivef. 00
— — —, tie
Lottery and Broker's Office, Ffl
"... No. 64, South Second stkest.
'p '* 'T'ICKETS m the Canal Lottery, No. 2, for sale—a
V 1 Check Book for examination—and prizes paid in
the late lottery.
' Check Books kept for examination and rejiftering, for
the City of Washington, No. 2, and Pattefon Lotteries,
. w iU both of which arc now drawing—information where
1 largo, tickets are to be had, and prizes exchanged for undrawn
anges, tickets. A complete lift of all the prizes in the late New-
Port Long-Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery, for
examination.
The fubferiber fofieits the application of the public
and his friends, who with to purchase or fell J?snk Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange or Notes, Houses, Lands,
&c. or to obtain money on deposit of property.
Wm. Blackburn.
Philadelphia. Augufl 18, 1796. mth
FOR SALE,
A Complete Font of Brevier, I
T7Ntirely new, and yet unopened. The weight of this o
Lj font is about 31 lib. It is from the Foucdery of C
Wilson & Sons.Glasgow, and will be fold at cost & charges. 0
Also for Sale, a pair of Super Royal Chafes.
w Enquire at the Office of the Gazette of the Unitde k
Statse, 119 Aug. 19 $4 W 1
ty Dissolution of Partnership.
taffetas T*HE Partnerlhip between ROBERT ANDREWS and t
V A DAVID MEREDITH,under the firm of ANDREWS c
ndwiU an< ' MEREDITH, being cliffolved. All peifons who are I
indebted to, or who hive claims against the laid house, are I
, . requefled to apply for settlement to the fubferiber. 1
tfa y ROBERT ANDREWS, i
No. 86, So. Wharvei. 1
leer. 5ept.6,1796. d tf
~~ WANr ED,
A Middle-Aged WOMAN, who can be well recom
, who mended, to take charge of the entire management of
e r She children—Such a person will meet with suitable encou
For ragement, and may hear of a place, by applying to thd
printer of this Gazettfw
ftf Sept. 14. mwf
for Stilcj oFti
' ■ an excellent situation for business,) public, 1
A three-story brick House and Lot of to meet
Ground, till
E : ehteen feet front »«d twenty-five feet in depth, ch
the Soilth Cde of Market ne»Froi*-ftreet, now in pofiel-
fioa of Samuel Read.
Appiy ta
Israel Pleafants, or
Charles & jufeph Pleafants. j who a-.
<r. dtf I H. E
Sept. Tj. I C pj
For Sale,
AThre; story BRICK HOUSE and L.t, in Chefnut J
| p -■••.t, between Front and Second ftrsets, in which I
K Meffr- - .es Calbraith & Co. have for many years (and i A
now do , carried on bufm'efs. I •
Poffeifior. will be given ib one month, or sooner. j
For terms apply to WII,LIAM BELL, or J
:r ' HECTOR CALBRAITH. j
April 21. j
" i A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's place is wanted by a person properly quali
fied, and w'lcfe ch jradcr will be found unexception- I And ft
able. Apply to the Printer. ■ rf An
• Aug. ir " I
Dutch Goods,
Received by the Pcntjyhania, from Amjlerdam. | g c Ju
_ GIN, in pipes
Morlais ")
Ticklenburgs > tn Bales I '
Ofnaburgs J I Att t
German "J Stripes, in cases I
Haerlem j I Ri
Hollands DUCK, in ditto
_ Ravens J (
t, Bed:ii.Vs, in ditto J An
*1 sr } r n
For Sale by THOMAS V JOHN KETZAXD. J A(Jdr(
Aug. 19 $ j Tix
Sales of India Goods. By K
The Cargo of the ship Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal-j ]
cutta and Bengal,
consisting of I Sej
-S, A Large and general assortment os-Bengal and Madras j
llt , J\ " COTTON and SILK GOODS. j
AMONG WHICH ARt
A variety fine worked and. plain Muslins, 1 *31
Doreas, &c. Also, 1 X® l
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, I 3® 1
In boxes and bags—and SLACK PEPPER, J
For Sale by I 40
Willings Francis,
— . No. 31 Pcna Street. 1 —
June 8 § j C
JUST A RR-IVE D, from Lisbon, B°<
And far the Subscriber., | Steps
Lisbon Wine, i'Jy
In pipes and ijuarter-calks; I perp
— cjtxio Buihels Lisbon Salt. 1
'fejfe W 'Robert \>aln. f Sc
old > c dtf ~
Sept. to. ' I
At a special meeting of the Board of Di-1 p
nSuts for ejlablifhing ufefjil Manufactures, holJsn loft
at Paterfon, July 8, 1 C
RESOLVED, That a special meeting of the Stock- for
hulders of the Society be called on the firit Monday,
bVing the third ay of O£lober next, at Paterfon, by ven m t
ivas, of the clock of the fame day; then and there to take
• into consideration the propriety of diffolvmg the said
5. corporation, agreeably tp the law *1 such cafe made and
« provided—and the Stockholders are earr.eftly requested j
-■— to attend "he said meeting in person or by proxy.
August dt3Cth° A
; s fte! DUTY ON CARRIAGES. Fh]
Notice is hereby Given,
-i — T'H AT agreeably lo an aft of Congress of the United .
A Suiesot America, passed at Philadelphia, the «Bth day •
TON of Mav> IJg S; laying duties on Carriages, for liie convey. »»
ance of oerloos, anrj'i; pealing the former acts for that pur- J t
p o f c . That there shall k«4pvied, col letted and paid, upon A
ickets all carriages for the conveyaace of persons, which lhall be I
-tf kept by or for any person, for his or h*r own u.e K or to let I
: oat to h»e,orf»r the conveying of palfengers, the several du. I
" ties and rates following, to wit. I
For and upon every Coach, I —
upon eviTy Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Poll Chariot, li dolfj
lie—a Upon every Port Chaise, 12 dols. I
Lid in upon every Phaetop, with or without top, 9 dols I A
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
g for upon other Carriages, having psnnei work above, 1 w
, e ' r ; c9 with blinds, glaljesor curtains, 9 dols. I en
where u P on lour wheel carr!a ges, having framed polls and I f r ;
, ' topi with Heel springs, 6 dols. I w
upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron j
springs or dol6. j ya
tor upon curricles with tops, 3 dols. I q,
uponchaifes with tops, 3 dols. I
public upon chairs with tops, 3 dols. 1 p
Stock, upon sulkies with tops, 3 dols. I 0[
Lands, upon other two wheel top carriages. 3 dols.
upon two wheel caniages, with it eel or iron springs, j
n. 3 dols. ■ j
h For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 1 dols. I
m upon every four wheel carriage, having framed polls I
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols. | J]
The Colkflors of the Revenue of the firft survey of the 1
Diftrift of Penofylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day I
of this of September next, for the purpose of receiving the duties on I
ery of Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or Saffafras street, in the City I
barges, of Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. CJ»«r, in the I
County of Montgomery ; and at the house of Abraham Du- I
Unitde bois, Esq. in the County of Hucksi of which all persons pof- I
r! w feffed o! f»ch Carriages are desired to take notice. I g
Notice is also given, a
1 1 TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign diflilled fptri- J p
IVS and tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to them ; one li 1 c
IREWS cence for carrying on tHe business of retailing of Wines, in a j
vho air less quantity, or in lets quantities than 30 gallons—and one J "
use, are licence for carrying on the business of ;etailing Spirituous li- I
quors in-less quantities than *0 gallons, at the fame time and I
5, at the fame places, by the pfEccrs legally authorized to grant I
ve«. fuck licences. ft
dtf WILLIAM NICHOLS, ( ]
Infpeftor of the Revenue ol the ftrft survey | |
of the diftriftof Pennsylvania. I ,
Office of Infpeftion, at ) I;
Philadelphia, 21ft July, 1796. {
,ZZ ■ ir A N T E p, I
An APPRENTICE to the Prirtwg Business. I
mwf Enquire at this Office. Aug. 9
The Merchants and Traders
OF this CityJ who have claims upon the French R'-
rnblk, either in the WefVlndies of f.ufopc, are requeued
to meet at the Coffee-Hocfe, on Tuefdiy the acth mil.
„t it o'clock. Stft. 19.
FOR SA L E.
PORT WINE, and <-
HOLLAND GIN, of the firft qualities in Pipes 1
FK U'NChB and VAN REED.
BroVcrn ar.il pMtis%i£uS.Mtu 3^
Who d:{conm approved NOTES of hand.
1 N. B. An APPRENTICE Wanted.
September 14. mw '
Rofs and Simfon • L
Have for Sale,
A few calks Bees-Wax,
I Of an excellent quality,
1 And a parcel of Lampblack.
Sept. i - i
Great is Troth and mult prevail.
JUST PUBLISHED,
I And for fate at No- 41 Chefnul-Jlreet bj/ J. ORMROD,
An Apoiogy for the Bible,
By R. Watson, d. b. f. s. s.
BiJJ:op of Landaff, (Sfc. >
Being a complete refutation of JPaine's
Age of Reason,
Asd the only auf»er to. the Second Part.
1 Augult 30. .
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
By W. Young, Mil'ls and Son,
[Price jo cts. in boards, 6a 1-1 neatly bound]
lAn Apoiogy for the Bible,
( In a series of Letters,
| Addressed to Thomas Paine," author of a booltentide*
Tlx Age of Reason, fart the JtconA, being an in-
I ve/lijation If true and fabulous theology.
By R. *. VATS ON, D. D. F. R. S. Lord Bishop of
Landaff, and Regios Profeffor of Divinity
in the University of Carnoridge.
Sept. 16. , tu4 #_
For sale by the fublcribers,
IN PfcNN-STREET,
, I 130 quarter Chests frefn Hyson Tea;
J ibo ditto* do. ffelh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing fin all tea setts of 4>
pieces; }
j 400 pieces Bandanoes. ,
Willings & Francis.
I January 30 r
One Hundred Dollars Reward.
I Q OME villainous p«rfon or pcrfons having, in the night
j O of the 7thinft. broken and nruch injured the Marble
I Steps aj Mr. Pierce Butier's door in High-street, No.
j 315, the above sum of 100 dollars \v;/. be paid immedi
j itely to any one whp will dif cover* the perpetrator
I perpetrators, so that he or they may be apprehended.
" Apply to PIERCE BUTLER.,
-4- : r U~ 0r BAM. MAGAW.
I Sept. if. *tf&m3
. ~ TAKE NOTICE.
i I "THE fubferiber intends to mite apfnr—•» «»
1 new*! of the following cirtificate, supposed to be
loft on the passage to England in April X 794 • ,
Certificate No. 10335, dated Ijth November, 1793.
k- I for 1830 dollars tind 91 cents—Six per cent, domcitic
y I debt, on the books of the Treaiurv Of the United States,
-n I in the name of the Hon. John Trevor. .
ie 1 ROBERT BIRD, at John Warder's.
lid Philadelphia, Aufcuft <oth, 1796. «tu&f6w^
ed I India Tamboured Mufiins.
__ I A small, handsome ajfortment of
I • viz.
Fine tamboured Malda and Santipere Muslins, virion*
patterns and pricc*.
I Plain 6-4 Jaconet.
Corded and cross-barred Muslin Shawls.
, Ditto - ditto 6-4 and 4-4 Dorcas. •
_ Muslin Handkerchiefs, fine and coarfc.
ur- Japan Muslins, and
50 n A few piaccs extraordinary fine Long Cloths.
bc I tOU SALE B-Y
let Thomas Tingey >
u - I No. lit, South Third-street.
Sept. it. ~
TO BE SOLD,
I That Neat and Convenient House,
ITT THEREIN the fnbfcriber now lives. There are four
W rooms on a f100r..: the house is two flories high
jve, I with a good garret above : under the whole is an excell
ent cellar, with a dry well, in which is a convenient
and framed chamber for preserving meat, butter, dcc.inwarm
weather. Attached to the house is a Stable for three
iron horses, hay-los , granary, and cariiage-houfe, a wood-
I yard paved with ftpne, and a garden with foil of a fine
I quality. An indisputable title will he made to the pur-
I chafer. For farther particulars apply to the fubferiber in
I Princeton, or. in her abfenee to Thomas D. Johnson, Esq.
I or the rev. Samnel S. Smith.
ANN WITHERSPOON.
in g s i J Princeton, Aug 14. aawtO
poib Plans oi the city of Philadelphia,
dols. J Including the Northern Liberties and diftrift of
f the I SoDTHWARK ,
1 day 1 Published, and fold by
!, c °; BENJAMIN DAVIESy
a the I No. -68, High street,
Du- I (Price one dollar.)
pof- j THTS plan is 16 inches square, and has been en s ,
I graved by one of the firft artists In the city, from a late
I and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled t» a pam
fpiri- J phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the
ie li I city, its population, trade, government, itc.
,in a j July 19 tu&ftf
>us ii- J FOR ,b A L E, .
graift By N. and J. FRAZIER.,
1 No. 95, E. Front-street,
> j Prime Boston Beef, in barrels.
Jurve> I Georgia Cotton.
I Carolina Rice and Indigo.
1 Sherry and Teneriffe Wines, oP excellent quality.
I Ravens Duck. - .
~™" I Indio Bandanno^s.
j Sewing Silks, various colours.
.ft I Coffahs and Gurrahs.
1 Sspt. 17- & «i»w
---$S TUCKS.
Six percent. ..5...... tJ /,v
Three per Cent. . 10/j / int .
4 iP er^ ent - 14/ C off.
r« r Cent r jy 4 \
Deferred Six per Cent. .... Xj/g
BANK United States, - . . 19 to zo pr. cent.
, ... . a 6 to ij
, . ' America, - - - - 45 to 46
y \ Inlurasce 37 i-jper cent. adv.
—"Pennsylvania. par to z per cent. adv.
-GOtfltSK OF EXCHANGE.
\ C™ London, at 30 days, per'£.loo fterl. par.
" at 60 days, par to 16a I-*
\ " at 90 Jays, 161 i t-z
Amsterdam, 60 days, per guHder, 4j
——- 90 days, 40
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By W. YOUNG, MILLS and Son, i
Cottier of Second and Chef nut flreets, 1
frice it i-i cents, |
The President's Address '
To the People of the United States,
INTIMATING I
The refoiutios he has farmed to decline being considered
among the number of those out of-whom a choice is to
I>e made, at the ensuing election of a President of the c
United States. •>
Se Pt- ws6 c
John VVhitefides & Go. 1 1
Have fir Sale, j
Venetian Jled, ,
Spanilh Brown, I
White Lead, ground in oil; f'
Shot, No. I, », 3, 4, 5. w
London Porter, in caflcs and bottles. e:
Green Copperas.
Several crates of Queens Ware, in, setts, With desert r
ditto campleat. "
Blistered Steel, vi
Gerirf. n ditto. ai
Sept. ii. ,j lw v j
tor Charter, £
Ship Dontinick Terry,
Dc Hart, master!: an excellent
vcffcl, of about 3000 barrels burthen. 1
Jejfe Ss 3 Robert Wain.
September sr. d lu
- * " rr~ —•— th
. No. 139. _ Pr
Dijtrt3 of rennfyl<vania to nvtt
BE it remembered that en the nineteenth Day of July
. *-n the twinty-firft Year of the Independence of the United
States of Amenta Thomas Dobfon of the said Di(lri<ft
hath deposited in th» Office the Title of a Book the Right
■whereof he claims as Proprietor in the words follow in o:
to wit
" Sele«x e veteri Teftamento Hiftoriat or feleft PalTa
"g" from the old Testament. To which is added art
" alphabetical Vocabulary or DiSionary of the words
contained in this Book wherein the Primitives of com
" gound and derivative words are minutely traced and
r the Irregularities of anomalous and Verbs are
l* particularly mentioned—For the Afe ot those who ai e alf<
entering oh the ®tudy of the Greek and Latin Languages, r®
" Qjjo citms, quo facilius, eo melius. f l
"By James Hardie A. M. Teacher of the Greek and J
" Latin Languages"— "et
in conformity to the rft of the Congress of the United wh
States intitujed, " An Ait for'the Encouragement of ruh
Learning by fecurjig the Copies of Maps Charts and ror
Books to the Ajithors and Proprietors ef fueh Copies tr
- during the times therein mentioned.
Samuel Caldwell, Clk. Djft. Pennfylv. nar
No. 140.
JXjQriS <*f ,/V..,ysVor;ra to nxnt
BS it remembered that oh the 19th day of July in the gra
♦wenty-firft year of the Independence of the United States roll
the iaid diftritft hath de
pouted m this office the title «f a Book the right whereof 1
he claims as proprietor in the words following to wit
" Unitanauilm explained and defended in a discourse
delivered m the church of the Univerfalifts at Philadel- wit I
phia 1796. By Joleph PriefHey, L.L. D. F. R. S. &c had
«i n r fenow thee the onl 7 trne God and
Jesus Christ whom thon haft sent. John XVII 3
„ ''Toue there is but on* Goc* the Father of wh.'mare' Thc
'f, D g M 1 Cor - VIII 6. Nov
I( - eVl ' re P°rt and good report as deceivers and yet C,OC
• true ; . »Cor.VI,B. 1,
in conform.ty to the ad of the Congress of the United 4
States intituled » An AA for the encouragement, ofi-learn
ing by fecunng the copies of maps charts and books to . beat
the authors and proprietors of such copies during the £ > rtl
tunes therein mentioned."
Sdmuel Caldwell, Clk. Dift. Pennfylv. BU(
No. J4r. A
fiiflrtß of Pennfyhama to w'tt an
BE it remembered that on the 19th Day of July j n the "
the twehty-firft year of the independence of the United Pavii
wl"/ Amcrica Thomas Dobfon of the said diftria the c
?u , n tH " Cffice th * titlc of 3 Bo °k the right f.fr,,,
To wit 15 pr ° prictor ,n the word » followfng [y "
" DHeourfes relating to the evidences of revealed reli- to P 1
Ik ? Che , ehurch of lhe Univerfalift, at t
« ll ? « T P " hl ', fhed at the "I"** 1 of ma- more
" S &c &c By joseph Pr .eft ley L. L. D. F. R. ft t y,
u l_ Ec , rf:ady a ' Wa y to answer to every man that
4,ltr «h you a reafbn of the hope that is in you.
" 1 Pet. 111. »c." it,
?n conformity to the aft of the Congress of the United
States intituled "An A<S for the encouragement of tell 'g
learning by fecunng the rojries of maps charts and books vlf,or
«o tbe authors and proprietors of such copies durine the able
fanes therein mentioned." g ie
Samn ' l Clk. Dift. Pennfylv,
No. 14/. ~ ply h
. Di/lriS of Pennsylvania t» Ivit
BE ,t rememhered that on the nineteenth day of Tulv Tl
I! ' "y T? > ndt P e of the United '«eiv
hath fle r W
wncreof Jie claims as proprietor in the words folkiwfng V ' Ce °
" Cor.fideritiens on the doflrine of and the '
« d!7U" Z: ttr ~ by Joseph p " eftk * L - £ Th
'« Quilem commendcs etiam atque etiam afpice '* S? mrr
" Horarp " ° ceai
rn tonfertnity to the of the Congress of the United he h ««
State, intituled "An A<ft for the encouragement rf perfo.
learning by fecunng the copies of ivlaps Chirt. ,„j Z , ' f
to the authors and proprietors of such r,W 1 ■
times therein ' L ° P '" Ju ""g La V
Stmurl Cqldwell, Cik. D,ft. P onn fylv. Th
WAN T"t D — • —' n " me
V^Oa?^ V ™ F i MEN « BOO K- B WDERS, fheir 1
OGD steady I»orkmen will meet with conftam em- He
ployment, and good wages; by applying to TOHM 1
CURTIS, No. 43, North Four.h-lUeet 3 J tbe "»
N. B BOOK-BINDING in ail itt Afferent branches Th '
executed with neatness and dispatch. Public and private' ffed W
in the neatest and best manner
September jo. aw
1 1
> int CONTINUATION OF
j« ff - FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
cent. By the Brig Dean, Capt. Burvbam, arrived at Neiv-
York, in 49 dayj from Havre-de-Grace, and ether
late arrivals.
adv. —
adT - STOCKHOLM, July r.
Baron Buberg, ambalfador from the empress of
.% Russia, has had his firft audience of his majesty.—
Besides his credentials, he presented to his majesty
a private communication from her imperialmajefty,
containing the warmest affurancesof peace and ami-
ty* The king exprefled his fatisfaftion at receiv
ing thefeaffurances, and in return gave the moftfo
•n, lemn promifei in his determination to purfire a Gmi
lar line of conduct. His majesty then invited the
baron to dine with hiin in his own irmrtjuee at the
■ camp, and to accompany him to a eehera! review 1
of his army. |
es > These marks of condescension which are seldom ]
exercifetl towards foreign mini [Vers, mide the deep- !
i'/to eft im P reffion on the Ruffian ambafTador,.-and pro- t
the uce( l the m °ft grateful acknowledgements. t
At the fame audience, the grand mailer of the I
! ceremonies presented to his majesty M. Dccfopaus, c
the ambassador's secretary of legation. ' j d
NUREMBERG, July 16. o
The king of Pruflia has taken poflbffron of the c
suburbs of our city, and we even expedl that he I
will insist upon the farrender of the cattle. Banberg R
expects the fame fate. -X I ft
Proclamations made in the king's name, and j a
cr signed by his prime minister, baron Hardenberg,
viceroy of the countries of Anfpack and Bareuth,
are every where placarded. The inhabitants are in- j 5
vited to be tranqail, and to refpe& particularly the I ?r
troops of his imperial majefly—if they do not re- g<
fpeft them, the troopj will be obliged to use force. T
In this manner, by Httle and little, the king of cc
ent rn ® a wl " Ba'"8 a '" as much by his proclamations, as J tri
ihe empemr loses by his armies ia the held. I to
P. S. We learn this moment that twft ftr«f>g co-1
lums of the Rhine and Moselle army, coming from j pit
the Lohr, after several murderous battles, have got I w(
pofTcffion of Kelzengen, Dornftadc Hornberg, and I
Rotwell, 8 leagues from Stutgard. , By means of Li
cd *' ,e pltce, they are mailers of the Danube and j H
i a Nccker.
;ht "■ — j wl
ng [Translated for the (N. Y.) MINERVA.]
fe- [From the Journal of Commerce, July *o.] jen
* STRASBOURG, July 14 (26 Meffidor.) ?"
nd report this moment prevails, that the French I 2
ire have palled the Rhine at Kuninguen. We learn .
ie also that the Margrave of Baden {ias sent ministers |
t0 Pan's to conclude a separate peace. It is added I
nJ that there has been granted to the dnkeef Wirtem- j
berg and the margrave, an armistice, by means of
e d which the French will not take pofTeffion of Carl
es ruhe. They write from Frankfort that the Empe- re s
e, u r a PP°' Bte< ? Mr - Muller, his agent at Paris. an(
He is to agree with the government on the prelimi* r ,<r
nary articles of peace. » J
PARIS. Tulv to. — ]!' a
rTiejournal oTTarls announces that the emi-H2
re grants, composing the army of Condc, me f Dr . f'
' ronn <fcd by the army of Gen. Moreau. We h-ve
at yet no details on this fobjea.
The pretender iaat Hertolzeim. j .
re We may publish now, without danger, and even
P' lde , that when Buonaparte entered Italy, he \ .f
d ar a t ,, O C l Va 7bf fron! 7to 800 bad horses, and 18 I
ar tilery horses that drew two pieces of cannon— I r"
e m [ °f, thear,iUer y were drawn bv men. •!"«
t f 00c- h f* a f br 'l l,ant C3va!r X composed of at least f, le
t 5,000 horses for dragoons and artillery.
j It is dated for certain, that the Freneh troops
- " nd f Cr l J e or f"> of Maffena, in Italy, have T
, beaten the Auftr.an, on tlfe Ala at five leagnes a J
!tT , °, VCr ' and have ob % d them to retire t,
behind the town of Trent. 1
BUONAPARTE, Commander in Chief of the &r!i
i y ' ,otbe Munici pal'tieg of Pavi» colu
and Milan. t
" I defirc, gentlemen, that the University of The
Pavia, celebrated by so many titles, should resume whi<
the course of its studies. Acquaint the learned pro- who
feflbrs, and the numerous scholars of that si- abo,
if, that 1 invite them to repair forthwith to Pavia T
L° P t rCI Z r ,° me such mcait,reß as they think pro- brig,
per to_ be taken to increase the activity, and give • my 1
more brilhant cxiftencs to that renown'd Univer- forec
(Signed) BUONAPARTE." S
July 24.. ■ amoi
We have this moment received the certain in flone
telligence that the rfuke of Win pro- clud<
vifionally fi;rn,fhed the French troops with confide.- IB S 1
able magazines of forage. He has withdrawn his fort '
troops fiom the Auftnan armies, in consequence of 3n at
theftipulat.on. of the Truce. He is also ,0 sup- from
ply horses, cattle an i money. In a
Extras B f a Utter from Bonn, July jr. that 1
The guards of the military ftores'heie have iuft most
received order* to remove them to Fr.nckfort. •
— C °P)
ARRET OF 2d THERMIDOR 20th juir. "7
The direaory, defirou* of giving Gen. Hoche
commander of tbe army on the bordeis of the Tl
,7"'' 3 n ? rk , Qt , the,r fati.faai»n for the krvicc has b,
theft b.e eountry a.d to honor, -r, hi, him ,
I perft>», the brave defenders, who, M„der his orders, his ar
T Ve v te,m,,mc f * he •<>"£ and unfortunate war of give i
La Vendee, and the Chouans, decree, |"' 0
name of th/r Gc "" Hoche ' io 'be formj
AZ v , L Repubhc, two of the rr.oit ele- hold i
Rtl, ° klic '" ,h
He stall also receive a pair of pistol* of war, of panic
the national manuf a a u re of Versailles. f au i tv
J he ,rf CrS ° f War 3nd ,he are char- cont
ged with the execution of the p«fent decree. the w
t CARNOT, President. |' *
JLEGARDE, Sec'y. hand,
- COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
D'Anglas, Preiident.
A Commission, by their organ Dauberireitil,
CE, proposed a projedt, that a, column be erected in
each Commune," on which /hall be engraved the
Vnu- names of the defenders «f liberty, who have glori
ed oufly died in the field of honor ; and that fune'ral
feftivals be inftitoted in all the great communes.
The confideratioß of it adjourned.
f 6 of Extra& oF a private letter taken from an official
y. Gazette.
jelly. Larrach, in the Margraviate,
efty, July 16, (26 Mejpdor.)
ami- 1 inform vou my dear friend, that this morning ,
ceiv- at 9 o'clock our troaps pafied the Rhine al Hunin r
ftfo- guen. They are gone to take pofkflton of the
Gmi- Matquifateof Baden-Durlach. They occupy Lar
the rach, Weil, Hattmgen, Emmeldingen, Pintgen, I
the Effringen. Gen. Laborde, who conduced this ex
piew pedition, found the country deserted. The inha-
bitants removed all their most valuable effects and 1
dom provisions, but returned them, on being aflbred, *
eep- that their property flioold be refpeftcd, and that
pro- the most rigid defcipline reigned among the defer]- '
ders of liberty.
the The enemy fled in grett haste— to-morrow, ac- .
aus, cording to all appearance, we shall be at Rlieinfel- ]
I den.
j There are at Pintgen, Aufttian (lores of hay, "
j oats, wood, See. which measures are taken to £e- 1
the J cure. Cl
he j We are well received by the inhabitants of the \ L
erg j Marquifate, who thank heaven for-their deliverance \
I from the whopiffaged them last nigbt in- !'
md I a most terriWe manner. 11
r l?> j Extract of a letter from Wilhemfcad, July ij.
th, I Since the French have taken Frankfort, at least '
in- j 500 families of the country on the Mein, the Rhine m
the and Necker, have arrived here and at Hanau, with VC
re- great numbers of waggons laden with baggage.
ce. I Terror fei.ftd every foul, and all fled with what they *
of could carry away. rTbe Austrian and Fiencb
as j troops, who arc now on this small territory, amount on
I to 200,000 men. ,t on
j -Out biiildiuu* *"&Seie»t-t'T-tvnTafn'ttnj~peb»
im I pie who flock hither. Many are encamped in the D , a
ot 1 woods and neighbouring forefts.
nd I All the Imperial troops, from the Upper and
of Lower Rhine, are united between Manheim and J
nd Heidleberg, where are their head quarters. w
J Ihe Saxon troops fora» the advance guard, by 0
J which means they fuffer more than the Auftrians.
j The entrenchmenis raised about Maaheim are
j very formidable—they extend three leagues into the an<
I environs; 300 peasants waik night and day ; they tor
I are compelled by cancs and fibres— 5,000 trees tei
, I have been levelled in the sorest of Odcnwals.
rn I num ' >ei: taken by General K!e-
er . at w ben the Aufttiaps parted the ne!
| Mein, is very considerable. ' car
™ I ■ anc
!fl July 25. Fn
. ARMY OF THE RHINE AND MOSELLE, w,t
j silence which has prevailed for some days,
c refpefh'ng the operations of the army of the Rhine
*• and Moselle, began to catrfe anxiety ; but some 1
l * I official letters addressed to the Executive Directory, of 1
ftom the General in Chief, Morcau, will not only a Pf
J tranquillize US, but also afford ;rs new motives for
- ] i°y- n ' e General announces, with his usual mo
- delly, the late fuccefsof the army under his com
- mand. He informs, firft, the armistice concluded T
with the duke dc Wirtemberg ;he announces also J
the departure of two pknipo's for Parrs, to nego. ,
1 crate a separate peace. He also relates the particu
" lars of the battle which General Ferino fought on *
the 26th ; the design of this affair was to expel the a ck
J enemy from the valley of Kirche; it completely pub
Succeeded. General Jordy, wha attacked the 'he
po sat .laplach and Haufen, carried them with d'd
the bayonet, after a vigorous resistance; he has ll, al
| made zoo prrifonets, and taken! two pieces of can- out
e Ge,,e " !l -Laborde having al the fame time
s C1 j v-r ~affaß e of the Rtline at Huninguc,Kempt »»
. a . £ ; tha was completely effected. beti
.ie particulars of these last operations are not yet col, l
known.- The attack , of Q CRerBl Dl ,hem, at the " m
: ipnngs of Kincbe, were also fuccefsful. The rieht Q " r
. column attacked Wolfach, and routed the enemy, 1
r ~ 20 P ri ' oners > and a magazine of provisions. mor
he attack was made on the port of Alberch, veti.
which was carried with much-bravery. Nearly the u » "
>vhole garr.fon werejulkd . <thni w<rr TTrt
about ioo priloneri. ¥ertl
The right wing, commanded by the chief of ''c r
btigada, Laval, atiacked all the posts of the ene-
my between the Necker and Kinche, they were °f
forced every where and pursued as far as Sch, ;;m . gin .
g. ihe loss of the enemy was considerable £>cia
fix cases of c..r,ri,i tt es, 40 herfes, 200 prisoner , is to
among which w c ,e 6 o{fi cerß an(J 30 non<ommif . on ly
fioned officer, were taken. General Moieau con-
eludes his letter, dated 29th Meffidor, in announc
.»g the entrance ot General/ourdan, into Frank- «nf<
fort, and the hope of being (ho.tly enabled to give publi
n account of th, enemy being entirely expelled >«»"
rom the Bnfgaw, and thc borders of * ? our ,
In afecond !et,er Morfau f or 0
m^ a rf«L£S. en ' bas betn one of S
— ed to
From the Courier Francoife, of July 14 fidcli
Copy of a letter from the Grand D.,k«. nf V r fnS
"J. to General Buonaparte fay ' '
Gazctu.] P • lNot dai " l »tU they
General, the ci
Get,fra! Spannochi, arretted by your order 7
i :«t;: L h .<
•.«-» <«« of h *".
1 g»ve you, as well M ,h- f „ V J d' ma y n«ceff
E«4=. the ugw «' •
formable to the laws of mtr con- conce.
hold it my duty to be governed""" 7 ' ywhlchl ren dei
1 commit this lrttrr- si . . W 'H "
Monfredini, whom I beg you to'iJ !^ ar^iuis °"r t.
particular, the above merti aq ' ™. ln w bat league
faulty. You may reoT"T- P T' 3Ch ' haS bce " ™
conatrning all the obiedts which a" '" m ' hatred
the peace of my fubjial! wh,ch arc lntercftin 8 ,0 compa
I deiire catneftly to receive 3 W f fortun
ford me complete tranquility, and at tkefamt ifjL
afliirc quiet to all Tufcany.
netti!, I am, with petfett esteem,
:d in (Signed) FERUHNAND.
1 the [Wehave not the answer, but in the letter o{
glori- Buonaparte to the Directory, already pubiifhetT
ineral tlx: reason. which induced him to arrest Spannocki*
unes. arc afligiied, viz. hit notpreventing the Biitifh
from taking two French veflels in the port ot Le
horn, and otherwise favoring the Englifc and hat-
HiciM iog the ;
mate, {TranJlateJfar the Daily Advertiser.]
'^ n BASIL, (Switz,) 25th June.
2 Th = «* copy of a Utter written by JVfonf
" the Barthelemy, Ambaffad.r of ,he French llcpub
j^ lie to the Swift Can ten». t
Magnificent Lord®,
• ex- lam informed that tbeglonow and rapid pr „.
nha- ® * rcnch armie » in have determined
and m c in l of the and Freeh prieftj,
[r ed of their country, to take refuge in the bailli ivicka
that b =J°" d lhe f Mountains, which are under the j*!
fen- of ' be <we ««ons. As it is very d O .
Bab e that they w<!t scatter thetnftlves overthe
ac- territory, in order to unite their p] aHg of
ifel- h*r«i and fury again ft the French Republic, with
those of other emigrant, and French pnefts, whl>
unfortunately for the repose of both nations have'
( found an asylum rn some of the Helvetic states r
conceive it rny duty agreeably ,0 my inft fu^
the «° ra^ eft so " mil < rom y-"'. 'hat you wi-JI banift
nc£ from the territory of the confederation all defcrf *
t ii, ! lon °/i hose dangers so dangerous to the tranquil.
"y ® f Fran . ce as well those, whom
jyWKpij, has hitherto tolerated, as those who mav
'aft hereait / r uk T c ,efu * e 'here. You will recolle V
;ne magnificent Lords, that I have more than onee in'
it() roked with ftrcngth and earneftntf. the infltien :e 0 f
ge„ * ne Helvetic territory, to obtain from the different
Gates of your honorable confederation, decisive mra
lcb lures upon this important point. As ihofc have
Jn , or>l y been partial, a» the emigrants banished from
one part hare returned to the other, theconfeqfaence
Save rcrongT. ng-pfem
he body served a, mftrumrnis to the hostile projX 9 f
the powers leagued again ft the French Republi,
nd T Jey eannot, magnificent lords, any logger prclonj
nd th*r ft.y there, without injuring that conWencf
which ought tofubfift between the two nationsone
by ° f wh ' ch Ca ' ,oo ' afl [ ord an af r turn to the other, with.
out essentially affeding the duties of neutrality —
[re IheDireaoryof the French Rcpubhc demand.
hc and expect. from the frKndfh«p t ,f your worthy can.
tons, that liftenmg only to your true and foli'd inr
;es tereft, you will drive forever from among you , the
emrgrants and French priests, since it is proved by -
le - that they are the moll bitter I
hc nemies of the French Republic, and that their only
care is to foment disturbances upon the frontiers
and to weaken those ufefal connexions which the'
trench Republic is always desirous of maintaining
with the worthy Helvetic body. Be pleased, ma *
•s, Jj 1 . ent Lords, to take this request into your mofl
ie S coufideration, and acquaint me with the re
ne Solutions which you shall take t« answer the wifhe.
y, ot thc Executive Diie&ory. Yoijr wisdom will
ly appreciate its extreme and prefTmg importance,
3r (Signed J »A*~TH efc&Mf,
o- Ambassador of the Ficnch Republic.
£ The ANSWER.
so Lf i ter a Mag'ftrate of Bern ia the name of the
Council, to Monf. Barthelemy, in anjwer to hia
} letter to the Helvetic Cantons f.
m When, Sir, yout demand of being formally
ie acknowledged as Arobaflacjor of the French Re
ly public was laid before the Council of which 1 have
le the honor to be a member, I opposed it, because I
h did not fee any advantage whifh could arise from
ls that measure to the Helvetic Body, because, with
i. out having been acknowledged by lis under that
e title, you had nevertheless for several years ac\c(l
>t as the intermediate agent in the various connexion*
|. between France and Switzerland, and because I
■t confi<i«red that demand as an atteippt to draw after
e it many others which might disturb our rights and
t our tranquillity.
r, Your letter of the 20th of May, which has this
1. moment been trasifmitted to us through the Hel
1, vetie Direfiory, juftifics my willru/l, and leave.
e us no longer any rrnf" m d~"<kl k,,> tint the
r I'lVrtllifi ICepublic have m truth an intention of o
verturning the bafisof natural law, and of the pub
s lie rights of nations.
How, Sir !—Hofpitality is unquestionably one
. of the raoft sacred laws of Nature ; it wis theori.
. gin of civilization, it created {so tofpeat) all the
. social virtues, and yet the firft aft of your mifiien
, is to solicit us solemnly to infringe it. You not
. only demand from u» th.t we !hou!d rejedt those
. unhappy fugitives whom your fuccelTes in Italy have
. driven from an asylum where they enjoyed the only
consolation of the unfortunate, the refpeit of the
. public ; but yon also press upon us abfoluteljr t®
feanifh f»om our territories, the unfortunate, whon»
our religion direds us to comfort, whom refpeft
for oar laws, our customs and our manners, has
daily rendered more dear to/our fellow-citizen.,
who for seven years have by their conda& prefeat.
Ed to our countrymen examples of the ftri&eft
j fidelity, and in their misfortunes have afforde<| pat.
ferns of the noblest reCgnation. They are, yon
fay, the enemies of both nations. Without doubt
they figji over the vidtims of oppreflion, and over
the cruel destiny of their country, torn by the fu
ry of difcoidant factions—Ah! whereis the heart
so hard as lint to &cd tears over the evils which
France has endured for so many years—But if they
have plans of haired and vengeance (which the
necessary weakness of their Gtuation will not per
mit us even to fufpeit) they take good care to
conceal them from us, and it is time at length to
render us justice, by bifeving that our a£iive care
will not give thcra any opportunity of favoring in
our territory the hollile schemes of the power*
leagued against our government. No, Sir, they
are not cur enemies—gratitude docs not produce
hatred : I will fay more, they ate not your's—they
companionate you, and fliould it happen that the
, r ' une °f wai Should favor their cai:fe, their fitft
wiih (to use their own enpreffion) would be to o
-1 pea their arms to repentance ; their cejt would beto fee those who differ frow them in fentimetit, in dir
the peaceable enjoyment of that asylum which you du
would ravish from them with so much inhumanity, ty'
Consult, Sir, your own memory, and you will not lor
doubt but those are the sentiments of the French (la
mobility who idolized their king, more attached
than ever to thor religious principle!, and whose
greatest misfortune is to hare survived all that was
dear to them. Consult your own-interest, ind per
haps you will think it imprudent any longer to urge on
a measure of which you yourfelf may by some un- to
forefeen event be the victim. vu
But I pass on to another object which is no less of
important, as it concerns the law of nations. Per- a ]
mit me. Sir, to a(k you, who is that writer that co
has furnifhed you with that maxim so unknown un- thi
til our days. " A neutral nation cannot grant an th<
asylum to the enemies of a belligerent state, with- lef
out " efTentially affe<ftiirp the duties of neotrality." ne
It was without doubt dictated by that unrelenting
hatred which projected your inftruftioi 6 ; for I can w;
never believe that a person so deeply versed in di- qu
plomalic knowledge could have thus confounded ne
the duties of alliance and of neutrality, things in to
themselves so materially different. The one (at lead an
with particular and stipulated exceptions) obliges th
us to regard as enemies all the fubjefts of the State If >
armed against the allied parties, and forbids grant
ing them an asylum under the penalty of essential- fid
Iy affecting the duties of alliance The other sub- I
jests us only to the prohibition of favoring the one m ]
of the belligerent powers. Neutrality, such as we to
exercifeand such as has be«n defined by Puffendorf, m
Grotius. See. is the political fitaation of a govern- ca
ment, which, not furnifhing either directly or in- th
directly, either troops, arms or succors, offenfive . te
ordefenfive, to the belligerent powers, maintains
with them its treaties and union, and commerce,
without being affected by the rights of war, in its
interior or exterior operations.
It iB upon this basis that we have scrupulously re
gulated our conduct to this day, and if, by an impo
litic condescension, we should luffer ourselves at this tb
moment, to deviate from those principles, fanftion- c '
ed byrfie laws af-Mtiwns, irkat- imam it/ hme »'<,
that you will not immediately <jemand of us that we P
break our commercial connexions with the Enipire, P'
with Auftriaand England, and even that we should 'y
dismiss the miniftersof those dates? All those de- F
mands would be a confequenee of the fird, and we I
fhouid have loft the right of refufrng a compliance, ri
What right, what law (hould we then have to oppose P
to the aggrefiions of your enemies. Would it be ei
that of our neutrality ? Despoiled of all its cha- tl
j-afteriftics, it would not be acknowledged, and our P
only reconrfe would be in a coalition, and this the a l
political interests and the pacific views of our Can- Cl
tons equally reject. But, fir, who will warrant to t{
you that the powers leagued again®; France will not
claim on your account the pretended tight which
you this day set up ? Let not your modesty deeeive
you, for if in our readiness to fatisfy you, they
(hall imagine they discover proofs of our weakness,
they will make your judgment on this occasion the
ffandard of their conduct, which will then proba
bly accord with their interest. S
I allow, if you please, that such is the lot of the si
emigrants and the unfortunate French priests, that o
kowever rif;t>rou» tb« wwaftiren mig*t be which we tl
ffcould lake against them, that still oo claim would vi
be made which would at all disturb our political q
tranquillity ; but doth the certainty of impunity I
change the nature of a criminal attion ? Shall we 11
commit an aft of barbarity because we have no n
caofe to fear that it will be avenged ? And what d
then will be ihis new morality of nations if fucb r
principles are to be eflablifhed in place of the rights b
of nature, of those of humanity, and of thefacred si
precepts of religion ? No, Sir, I dare allure you a
that we (hall do honor to ourselves in refpefting the ']
unfortunate, and the only courage we (hall want, b
will be the courage to expose ouifelves to the flings b
of rertiorfe. . a
1 know that they cannot this moment object to t
us the example of a sovereign, who connected to r
the house of Bourbon by the dearest ties ef blood r
has yet consented to theexpulfion of the emigrants f
from all his stateS ; but it will not be the mediators f
«f the pacification of Prufiia or of Spain, who will t
cite to me a treaty diftited byforee and fubferibed s
by weaknjfs ; a treaty whi£h was the ahufc and not
the right of victory ; a treaty ilL&iie, which highly
eenfured by yourowil citizens, provokes an unfver
fal indignation against the conquerors, and weakens
a sentiment of the tenderefl interest in favor of the
vanquilhed.
And whither would you, that these unfortunate
grangers should go, if banished from theit country t
where they could find only a si affold, and driven
from the land where the terror of your arms gives 1
the Jaw foj; their profcriptioo, they are still repulsed
from neutral dates where their supplications de- (
mand less the right of existence than the tranquilli
ty of the tomb ? Shall we behold those tboufands
of old men, of women, and of children, who, with ,
the little of their misfortunes, have cast themselves |
upon our hospitable territory, shall we, without hor
ror, behold them hopeless of an adytum but in the .
Dens of Savages, and without any fubfiftepce but
that which they mult dispute for with beads of
the sorest ? Ah, do not doubt fir, you have known
them in the hour of prosperity : we do not doubt,
we who for seven years have observed them under j
the trials of adversity, we do not doubt but that
their lad sigh would be a prayer for their perfecu- ]
tors—But, even their prayers would not disarm the .
hand of the Eternal—their bones scattered over
our foil would call for the vengeance of Heaven up
on us, and upon our posterity, and the tending cry
of our confsiences would be but the commencement
of our puuifhment. I am, See.
* We have copied this answer from the " Uni
rerfal Mercury," of Frankfort; but as this piece is
without signature, we may, without any impropri- '
ety, doubt its authenticity. We give it#ir what it '
is worth. <
i
FROM THE LONDON GAZETTE.
Saturday, July 23. i
Downing-street. Jtily 33. 1
The letters, of which the following are copies, 1
have been received from the honourable William
Frederick Wyndham, bis majesty's envoy extraor-
n dinary and minister plenipotentiary to the grand
u duke of Tufcany, and from Mr. Udny, his majes
ty's consul at Leghorn, by the right honourable
t lord Grenville, his majesty's principal secretary of
h state for the department of foreign affairs,
d —
e Florence, June 2?. j
is My Lord, v!
I have the honour to inform your lordlhip, that 1,01
e on'the 1 &th instant the French entered Bologna, to -
1. to the number of about 15,000 men, having pre
vioufiy sent before them a commissary and a troop
fs of cavalry, to demand entrance into the city, with
•- a promise of treating it in a friendly manner. In ffA]
tt confequenee, being mailers of the town and fortrefs,
I- they made the ganifon prisoners of war, and sent 1
n them under escort into the Milancfe. The Pope's Mr
l- legate, they immediately ordered to quit the Bolog- X° ;
" nefc - '
g On receiving this information, I immediately "
n waited on the prime minister, Scratti, and the mar- | at{
i. quis Manfredni, to koow whether his royal high, be
d ness had any intelligence of an intent of the French rea
n to march into Tufcany, or to garrison Leghorn { -
ft and I had the most positive assurances from both,
:s that the French had no idea at present of entering ' (
:e into Leghorn.
t. I own, my Lord, that Ido not place much con- 0 r
1. fidence in their promises of not coming to Leghorn ; anc
j. I have therefore thought proper to write to the ad- obi
le miral my sentiments to that effect, requeding him
re to leave some vessels at Leghorn, to carry off the
f, merchants and British fubjefts, with their effects, in wa
1. cafe of a fuddeD invasion. 1 have likewise desired f a y
j. the consul to convene the British factory, and to the
,e . tell them not to rely too mi\ch on French faith.
)s I have the honour, See.
f> W. F. WYNDHAM.
ts —
Florence, June 2J.
e _ My Lord,
0 . I have the honour to inform pour lordship, that th
ig the situation of affairs in this country i 3 materially
n . changed: the neutrality of thejgrand fluke, which,
e -—;• "■ pan of the Directory at
Paris, and their miniiler here, we had reason to ex
e, would be religiously refpefled, has been open- ro
Id ly violated, by the march of a considerable body of
e. French troops to Pidoia, the dellinationof which, f' l
e " I have reason to believe, sri/m a variety of concur- l ®
e- ring circumstances, to be for Leghorn : indthe te
,fe public of Lucca has given intimation to this gov- ar
b c ernment, that such is, undoubtedly, the project of ' j-'
a . the French, The violation of the neutrality is so
ur palpable, and the tneafures taken by the enemy so 111
(, e apparently hodile, as to make it probable that the la
country will not escape contributions. I have omit
to ted no means for forwarding information almolt v<
ot daily to the CoHful and Admiral. P'
.1. t I have the honour, Bcc. cl
v . W. F. WYNDHAM. fr
ve fr
py
f„ Florence, June 25. u
My Lot<J, 1 . S
>a- l'was this day informed by the Secretary of
State that a column of French was on it's march
he from Bologna, by the way of Piguano and Perugia,
lat of which he did not know the number ; that ano
»ve ther cotnmn confiding of between 8 and 9,000, u
ild were to arrive this day at Piltoia : that the Mar
:al quis ManWedini, who was dilpatched by the Grand
ity Duke to Bologna on the instant with the
»e rtrongplt remondrances, and ordered to use h'is ut- .
no mod endeavors with Buonaparte and Salicetti to
iat dissuade the French from entering Tufcany, had ( j
cb received for answer, that no orders had been given
its by the Diredlory at Paris to that effedl, and con-
ed fequently it was not rn their power to dootherwife ;
ou and all that they would do, was to pass through
he Tufcany as speedily, friendly, and quietly as pofli-
nt, ble, and by whatever road his royal highness should
igs be pleased to didlate ; but that the commiffanes
and two generals of the marching to Pif
to toia, being arrived there, have declared to the gene
to ral Strafoldo (who was sent by the grand duke to (
od meet them, and to give the necessary ordeu to in-
its sure tranquility) that they have no orders to receive
ors from the grand duke, and do not know the route
they shall take—a circumstance utteily impossible, f
>ed as they precede the army to obtain provisions.
lot I have the honour, &c. ,
illy __W. F. WYNDHAM. J
er " ' . ~
ens On board his Majesty's ship the Incondaat,
Leghorn Road, June 27. |
My Lord,
a,e In consequence of the intelligence which 1 re- :
fy ceived on the 24th instant, from the Hon. Wra.
ven Frederick Wyndham, his Majesty's Minister at
ves Florence, and from my different Emissaries on the f
Roads, that there was a considerable probability,
that the French would enter Leghorn ; I immcdi- J
ately called a meeting of the Gentlemen of the j
Factory, and communicated to them the above (
I' 1 ' 1 mentioned information, and if equal attention had (
ve ® been paid to it by all as was done by the principal
lor " Members, the lots would have been far lefsoonfider- (
the able, lam happy, however, to be able to inform (
hut your Lordship, that by the extraordinary exertions
' which have been made, and in pa'tieular by captain
iwn Freemaotle, commanding his Majesty's ships in thr ]
'bt, Mole, twenty three in number, together with great
er part of the valuable effects in the ware-houses, and
hat about two hundred and forty oxen for the use of
cu " his Majesty's fleet, have in the' eourfe of two days |
t ' ,e and nights, been saved.
ver I have the honour, &c.
U P* JOHN UDNEY.
cry
ent Vidlory, off Toulon, July i.
rni- My Lord '
ej s Having seen the factory and English fubjefts,
and the convoy, with their valuable effects carried
tjt into Corsica, I proceeded in his Majesty's fh'ip In
constant, capt. Fretmantle, to receive the Coßiman- ,
der in Chief's inftruftions for my future govern
ment in the service of his Majesty's fleet, and ha
ving received Sir John Jervis's ordets, I am return
ing immediately to Corsica, in his Majesty's ship In
constant, to rejoin the factory and exccute his com
ies, mands.
am I am, &c.
tor-] JOHN UDNEY.
■JMI UMI- JIIWHHDWiH ' ■ I Ship.
Philadelphia, 1°
% { 1
, 5
WEDNESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 11, 1796 37
— 3
Married, on Sunday evening, by the Right Rev Dr. ' 5
White, Edward Stilis, Esq. to Mrs. Ma*v MerediTb, 3
both of thi» city.
1 ,on Monday evening, by the Right Rev. Dr. Shipl
White, Mr. Howard Thomson, merchant, to Mis» Ann ,
Renshaw, bpth of this city. j
.. ■, on Tuefdaj evening, by the Rev. Dr. Collin, j
Dodtor William Pennell, to Miss Dorothea S. Gra- j
ham, both of Chester, Delaware County. q,
PitD, at the George Inn, in this city a few days ago,
1 Mr. Farren, a young Englishman, Utely arrived at New- 38 b
Yoik, and whom curiosity had led to vilit this metropolis. j.
His ilineft was ftort, and his death unexpeitcd. 1
■< , in Kentucky, Craig Miller, Esq. late profefior ._
in the few lit Edinburgh. His lady, daughter of the ' r 1
[ate celebrated Dr. Cullen of Edinburgh, had the grief to dcr
' be apprized of his sudden death at JLancafter, haviug prep
1 reached so far eti her way to the place he was fettling. to J.
. ,at his house in this city, lad evening, Chriilian wgJ
Febieer, Esq. Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Penn- .
: m
' Such a dreadful tendency has the excefliye use of White .
Paint, that a Young Lady of this city died in confequcnce
' of its effects on Monday last. Aa European by birth, pout
! and unaccustomed to the heat of the climate, Ihe has been f
- obliged, to preserve a confident appearance, to renew the that
1 fatal application several times during the day.—She was j ate
„ seized with violent tremors, which were fuceeedtd by p
convulsions, and the doctor was of opinion that painting
1 was the immediate cause of her death. We are ferry to men
5 fay lhc has left an indigent, helpless mother, to lament two
j the prematnre loss of trie pi op of her exigence, as this coil,
unfortunate victim to pride and vanity, fupportcd her
felt end mother by working as a tailorefs. [Ind.
— \
COMMERCIAL. 1
— tling
The following hjj been published by dire&ioa of imir
t the Secretary of State. St.
DONA MARIA, by the Grace of God, Qwen
[ #f Fortugel, &e.
BE it Itnown to all, that having taken into my jr xt
i_ royal confederation the many and important advan- n
,stages that uauft necessarily result to the. commerce je
, of the fubje&s of these kingdoms and dominions,
.. is the establishment of a free port; and coafidering
.. that the port of Lisbon, from its fittution, fccurity
r . and facility to the navigation of the occan, cxceeds g
,f ■ thofeof other nations who have adopted fuchefta- j, avi
blifhmcnti; conforming myfclf with the advice of t ;jj e
'o my royal board of commerce, agriculture, manu
c f»£tures and navigation, of these kingdoms and its s on
t . dominion!, and of other pcvfor.s of my council
fl( very learned and zealous of my service and of the
public good ; it is my royal will and pleasure to
cftablifh at Ja queira, near the city of Lisbon, a
free port, which is to have its entire and full cfFcft
from the 111 of January 1797 : having destined for
its adminiftiation, and other ptirpofes thereunto be- l
Winging, the houses and ware-hoiSfcs of the fort of e( j ;
, St. John, with the territory adjacent, for the build- p a fl
3 , ing of further peceffary accommodations, in which w ; t
may be rrceivcd and depofitcd all merchandizes and t j, e
a ' goods of every nature and quality soever, as well att .
trotn foreign (excepting, for the present,
3 ' sugar a»d tobacco) *s from, national poits, that are t j, e
situ. ted beyond the Cape-os-Good-Hope, at the
"" will of the proprietors, either for confnmption of our
le these realms, having made due entry according to IO(
1 l/tw and paid the lawful duti« at the refpe&ive a jj,
j Customhouses; or if exported to foreigß or na
' tioiial ports beyond the said Cape-os-Good-Hope, an
paying only, for the benefit of my royal revenue,
and usder the title of proteftioo and depolit, one j on
Y per ccnt. on the value of ftlch mcrshandize, See. en(
according to the invoice, which the captains of vel- yy
fels or those who may have the consignment (hall vVa
present and manifeft, and by them fig ed and qua- [j a ,
."j. s lifted under their oath 5 Subsisting however the li- ne ,
berty of Franquia to all vcffels that shall demand it,
according to the regulations and orders observed -at ] 3 j,
the Cu(torn house of this city : fuppreifingall other
du.ies, and annulling every regulation and order
ve whatever, contrary or opposed to the said liberty
, of franchife that forms the advantage of this present
e ' establishment.
And in order to animate and promote in this ca
pital the importance of a great plenty of articles of jy|
the firft oeceflity, it is my will to declare, that all t j, ;
forts of grain and p.'ovifions that ore exempt from (Jj,
paying duties of entry, shall not only enjoy the li
berty of exportation, but (hall be free from the „
payment of the above mentioned contribution im
r£" posed on the other articles.
m " In cafe the ciown of Portugal shall be at war
with any power whatever, whose fubje&s are inte
e rcfted in the goads, merchandizes, See. in the free
''J.' port, in which enumeration are to be comprehended
the above mentioned grains and provisions, there
le shall be made no avrcft, embargo, sequestration, or g c
,v< j reprisal on such goods or merchandizes, but on the
ia contrary they shall remain exempt, free, and secure, Sh
as if they were in the pofTeflion of their refpedive ® r
owners, to dispose of them as they shall judge most
!m convenient to their interests.
The administration of the above mentioned free
V" P°rt shall be put under the infpc&ion of an admi
r in tl rat or general, with those competent officers si
ea ' whom it will be my pleasure to appoint. And it
n is my will that this administration be independent
0 of every jurifdi&ion, excepting only the tribunal »f di
i y s my royal Board of Commerce, through which all hi
the necessary orders shall be expedited, and all re- w
prefentat ions made to me tending to maintain ind A
preserve the good faith of this establishment, in con- B
tormity with the particular regulation* which I h
have ordered to be formed for the government of A
the above mentioned administration and its officers, 3
i Sf and to serve as a rule to the captains of vessels and «
ied their agents, in the importation and exportation of w
] n all merchandizes which are to enjoy the advanta- «i
an- ges of this free port. it
rn- ■■■!—Mm
in a : BY THIS DAY'S* MAIL.
In- _____ J]
jm- BOSTON, September x 6.
The Spaniards have a large fleet equipped, but (
we conceive the equipment rather intended to defend
than ojftnd. They have sow actually «rnied. i
•
" Ships Guns Ships Gum Ship: Guns
i o * iiz i J4 1 ??
i 94 3 4° * 2 o J i
5 8o 4 3 6 11
37 73 3' 34 7
3 68 2 3° 9
. * 5 64 . 3 a 6 1 »P
> 3 5 8
Their riifarmed *e(!cls are,
Shipt Gum Ships Gum Ship* Guns
' i >36 7 74 ? 2 *
1 in 5 34 2 ??
•1 94 1 3 2 4 J
* 1 8b > 30
The whole Spanish n»*y con fifts of 7$ ftiipi of
the line, 53 frigates, 9 coivettes, Jo Xebtques,
- 38 brig*, 6 packet boats, and 97 /huller vessels.
From Cadiz, by capt. Hflman in 44 day*, we
ha re the latest news. No firitifh fleet wat thfii
[ cruising off the harbor—and the French fleet un~
» der Richery, were taking on board their fmalljlack
I prepaiatory to failing.—They txpefted to proceed
to sea the next ttoy after capt. Hilman failed. -There
n wa* no positive.new* at Cadiz of the capture of any
American vessels by the Algerines. One had been
chafed—and it is uncertain what would have beea
® her fate, bad the pirate overtaken her. It cannot
1 pefitively be said (he would hare been taken.
n From Si. Thomas—tit learn by capt. Young,
l = that it was tolerably healthy, notwithstanding the
19 late flory we had of the plague being there. La.
£ Penfee French frigate, which lately had an engage
-0 ment with an English frigate, was lying there, with
it two other French frigate*, jull from Cape Fran
is coil. '
1 NJEW-YORK, Septembsr JO.
We are informed, that judge Benfon has Jccept
ed the Sppointmenr of third cornmiflioner for fet
tling the true St. Croix river. He is to proceed
>f immediately for Portland, where he will embark for
St. Andrews, to meet the other commissioners.
:n Trenjlated frem French paper/.
ARMY or HALT.
y Extract of a letter frem general Buonaparte, com*
mander in chirt" of the army of Italy, to the
:e Executive Dircftory.
®> ' Head-Quarters at Roverbella,
£ 17thMeflidor, (July 6.)
y Citizens DireStrs,
- s Since the commencement of the campaign, we
a * have taksn from tbeen«my, £0 pieces of field ar»
tillery, 619 pieces of besieging cannon. Total 679.
- 1 " I have ordered the inventories to be taken, an<J
'* forwarded to you.
1,1 BUONAPARTE
\C —
to Letter from the fame to the fame.
a Head-Quarter* at Roverbella,
»BthSdclfidor, (July 7.)
ar Citizens Dire3erj,
e " After the battle of Borghetto, the enemy retir»
°' ed in the high mountains, in order to 'secure the
palfes of the Tyrol; they had fortified their lines
with a great deal of care, between lake Gardea and
the Adige. Maffena ordered general Joubert to
e " attack the enemy by Baichetta di Campion. The
lf > chief of battalian, Marchaud, marched and'turned
rc the enemy's right, whieh was the signal of attack.
' le . With trailed arms, and without firing a Tingle (hot,
o! our soldiers clambered the crag* of the rock*, killed
t0 100 men, took aoo prifoncrs, with 400 tents, and
ve all their baggage.
la " During this time, the chief of battalion, Reeco,
an officer of the greatest bravery, turned the ene»
,e » my's left, instantly took the excellent poGtion Be
>ne lona, killed 300 men, asd made 70 prisoner*. The
cc * enemy abandoned their intrenchment* in 6 minute*.
e '" We destroyed the works, so that X month's fatigue
a " was loft in an instant. This i* the firft battle which
Ja " has taken place between the two armie* since the
new general has commanded the enemy.
J*> I (hall soon attack the Auftrians, who hold the
at lake Gardes. BUONAPARTE.
tier __
er Letter from the' fame to the fame.
rl y ' Head-Quarters at Roverbetla,
cnt i.BthMeflid«r, (July 7.)
oUixens DireSors,
ca * This instant I am informed, that the garrison of
!0 ' Mantua made a forlit} but they returned fafter
a " than they came out. They left 50 dead behind
0,11 them. BUONAPARTE,
ll-
«faiettb of the united states marine list.
im- .
PHILADELPHIA, September ft,
war
itc
rce ARRIVED, day*,
j j Brig Lady Walterftorff, Guttetfon, St. Croix i»
Ann, Ricard, St. Thomas 16
lere B«tfey, Ennis, Aujuftine 9
>or Schr. Kitty & Maria, Logan, Port-a*-Princc ai
the v CLEARED.
are, Ship Greyhound, Green, X Fayil
1- r Brig M»ry, Earl, Hamburgk
*: Schooner Lutle Tom Butler, Thomas, Perth-Amboy
110 " Azariah, Blum, Edeoton
Winthrop, Gilman, Boftaa
f ree Olive, Dunkwiter, do.
Lindo, lngraham, New-York.
mI " Nenpareil, Hamlin. Norfolk
cers Slsop Nancy, Hineckley, BoAott
i it -- Boston, September 14.
leßt Arrived, Schr. Redress, Hilman, Cadiz, 44
il »f day*. Left there, capt. Stewart of Philadelphia ;
1 all his brig had been run down bj a Spanish man of
i re- war, and damaged so as to ruin her cargo ; Wuite,
and Atkins, and Fairchild of Boston ; capt. Abramt of
:on- Bolton had failed for Gibraltar ; captc. Maync, Sc.
:h I Hooper, of Marblehcad, had failed for Gavoone.—
t of Aug. 24, long. 54, lat. 41, 30, spoke (hip Jane
:ers, 35 day* from Liverpool for Baltimore. Sept. 6,
and eng. 64, experienced a most violent gale of wind,
1 of which lasted 14 hour*; directly after law 2 difmaft
nta- ed velTels. Sept. 14, saw a dilmatlcd (hip (land
ing for Cape Ann.
Brig Juno, Atkins, IlkofMay, 42 day*. Lefir
Ship John Bulkley, Stockley, of Philadelphia.
Capt. Homer, from St. Übes, spoke snow 'Wil
liam, Snow, of Bolton, going into St. Übe 3,
August 26, spoke brig Liberty, Davi» , near
but Cape-Spitchell, bound up the Strtights.
efend August 18, spoke (hip Thomas Wilson, ' Mailey,'
15 daysSrojp South-Carolina, lat. 39, long 6s
♦.
LANDING,
Fro*# on beard the Brig REBECCA, Dominic Divine,
\ Master, at Philip Care's Wharf, and for Sale by the
V Siibfcriber,
London Particular Madeira WINE, a
"% In Pipes, Hogsheads and Quarter Calks.
There are in the above parcel 10 Hhdi. of CHOICE "C
| s OLD WINE, fit for immediate use.
Robert Andrews,
Sept. 6. mwitf No. 86, So. Wharves.
THIS DAT PUBLISHED,
By J. ORMROD, No. 41, Chefrvut-ftreet,
(Price 11 t-» Cents) "
The President's Address en
To the People of the United States,
Announcing his intention of retiring from public life
at tlie expiration of tlie present constitutional term of
, preudency.
Sepmker so. d
•- ce
JUST PUBLISHED,
From the Press of MOREAU DF- ST. MERY,
And to be had at the principal Bookfcllers in the city,
(Price five five-penny bits)
A Humourous Pamphlet, entitled
The Political Massacre; »'
Or, Unexpected Ob/n vat ions on the Witingi «f our
present fcribbteri. ~
By JAMES QUICKSILVER, Author of the Bhu Stop. 2;
EmbelTilhed with a curious Cariciture. 4 C
S«pt. 1 o. dtf —
__1 — 61
Brokers Office,.and L
COMMISSION STORE. "
No. 6; South Third flr«ct,oppofite the national new Bank. 0
SAMUEL M FROUNCES and JOHN VAN REED, j°
have entered into co-partnerlhip, under the ftrra ot 1
ERAUNCES & VAN REED, in the bulinefs ef Brokers, ln
Conveyancers and CommifTion merchants. They buy and
fell on commifiion every species of stock, notes of hand,
bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c. (u
Montr procured on deposits, &c. ice. all kinds o'
■writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch ; accounts adjusted, :'-hj hocks fettled, In the
mod correct manner. Coßftant attendance will be given.
They solicit a Ihare of the public favdr ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to defefve it.
N. B. The utmost fccrecy ebferved.
S AMUEL M. FRAUN'CES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. August 17, r?9Q. pi&wtf _
B R A N D Y, I
OF lft and 4th proof, and equal in quality to that ittoort- pi
cd from France, may be had ot tlie fubferiber at his Distil-
A lefy, No. 115, Story or New-ilreet between Third and
Tourth-lkreeis. where the public, upon application, may tc
judge for theitifelvtSi and will find it an object well worth w
their attention. al
ROM and GIN in any quantity, for exportation o? home
% confupaption, and of fupetior quaiity —by o
Thomas Cave. w
P.S RYE, MALT. BARLEY, and MELASSES, will
be purchased, or taken in exchange for spirits, upon appli- tl
ration as above. Alio any quantity ot oilier wiue a
fit for diftulation.
/uguit sg h. 1706- M4W p
Notu Pubitfhivg by the Printer, a
At No. 3, Lxtitia Court, delivering to Subscribers, | h
and to be had at the «• ni'erent Book-Stores in tKs City, x<
Beniinan & Co's 3
CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OP
The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the Oldpnd Naw <•
TtlHmmts and the Apocrypha, with marginal notes aod're
erences. An Index ; or an account of the most rematkable f.
paifagesin the old and new TeAamcnt, pointing to the places j
wherein they happened, and to the places of fcriptuie whete. •
ia they are recorded.—A 1 ablt of Time.—Tables of scrip
ture lbeafures, weights and coins; with an appendix,contain- .
ing the method of calculating its vrAsumssf surfach
* iit/ierto uwtttngin Tteatifes on dit JuijeSf A Tabic ol Ojjiecs
cod Ccniitions ol men.
Conditions
i. The fueof this Edition will be a LARGE FOLIC), c
piloted on a beautiful new type, and good paper, made.par- I f
ticularly ior it, It will be publilhed in Numbers, notto es- ;
ceed 3c, one of which will be delivered w<ekly to fubferib- ' •
ers, at a quarter of a dollar. Those fubferibers who prefer -
receiving the work emflete, willbe attended to by fitfnifying f
the fame on any ot the fubfeription papers in rbe Booklloies ! .
in this city. | ,
s. There willbe an advance in the price, on subs tiblng j
after the fiift of August next. t
g. In ihf r.surfe of the Work willbe givea an elegant t(
Erontifpiecc—From an Engraving of the cdebratca ariift,
GkickiON.
Be&riman i: Cp. gratefully acknowledge the very libenl
encouragunent they havemet with; and havereafonto believe "
that the execution of their edition will anl'wer every expect '
Ution, .-nd ffcM its oa.« fraije. '
May 26 jaweoA. 1 1
, «
Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
Souchong _
Hyson Skin /
Young Hyson V FRESH TEAS
Hyson and \
Jmpcriil • ,
Yellow Nankeens
v China Ware, alTorted in Boxes and Chests
Qjsi^kfiiver
BanAanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality ia
ehefts
London Market } MADEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, hogfteads, &
New-York Market J quarter calks
'Ttneriffe Wine 111 pipss and hogf.taiJs
Snrar Candr lav the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead in lhe«s , . '
3 Calks of Cutlery alWted
A few chests of Man.iiefW Goods, assorted thick
fct», cords, striped Na;>kecns, &c
---w -.all packages of black, tewiug-blki
X l'ierces Virginia ?)wke-rcct.
Nails ifTorteri in tallii
July 18 m w&f
• Mr. FRANCIS, "
\Of the frezu Theatre)
"AKES this opportunity of returhing thankr to his
Ifr, Solars aj>d le the public. Mr. Francis intends,
r tturu fioin Marvlaud, to open 2 public rca
-01) hi» " f r dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He
decty t> V.iuifclf that hi> attectiim to his pupils hi
tlatUf* ■ -ders any premifcs of tosduclmg his future
theito TtL m oH liberal and Oric'icli tcrffis, of pro
frherrn.» cr. !y unntcefli^y.
prie.-y t»tii Jte toitiec as <A>al.
.Y. B. w ,
Jaue 3 *
JOHN MILLER, Jun. & Co.
No. 8, CHESNQT STREET,
Have Imported in the late veffeU from Europe, &c. in
AND HAVE lOR SALE, ™
A general aflortraent of GOODS, suitable to the fcafon—
Amongst which are, So
BROAD and narrow CLOTHS,
Plain and twill'd COATINGS, • —
Rose striped snd point BLANKETS,
FLANNELS and B AISES, o (
HATS assorted in cases,
IRISH LINENS,
INDIA GOODS, g»nerally,
A Consigned Invoice ct IRONMONGFRY,
Coniprilir.g a capital aifortment to open ti (lore—-inc.u
diug Thirty Calfc of NAILS. This invoke will be fold
entire on very advantageous terms.
September ao.
Lottery
TV'OR raiCng Gxthoufand fix hundred and Cxty-fevcn
X dollars and fifty cents, by a dedudiiou of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and nt< two blanks to a prixe. viz
{ Prize of 5000 dollars is dolllirs 500*
i 1000 1000
i 500 s°°
5 100 ioco
xo 100 4000
99 s° 4 9 s °
ao3 V aj s°°°
2000 10 ao,oco _
5 Lad drawn numbers of 1000 dollars each, 5000
»3ja Prizes, 44i4J°
4018 Blanks.
63J0 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44.45°
Ey order of the Directors of the Soiiety for eliablifti- X:
ing Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperintendants of the Pat- t; (
crfon Lottery have requested the Managers to offer the
foregoibg Stheme to the public, and have dire&ed them er
to refund the money to thtfc persons who have purchased
[■ in the former Loitefy, or exchange the tickets for tickets r
in this Lottery. \i
l'he lottery has aAtially commenced drawing, and will T
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks and prizes f f ,
' may be seen at the office ot William Blackburn, No. 64 it
r fou£h Second street, who willgh'einformition whexetick- ts
I ets may be procured. N th
« Dated this 17th day of June, 1706. th
J. N- GUMMING, \ ") A
JACOB R. HARDENBERG, > Managers, th
JONATHAN RHEA, J w
dtf eo U
Samuel Rjchardet, • [° {
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen ni
Merchants, that he has this d a y opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the t h
• pity of Philadeljhia. th
The Subscription Room will be furailhcd with al! the w
' daily papers publilhed in Philadelphia, New-York, B6f
' ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com- 31
1 mercial citi«s of Europe—They will be regularly filed D |
and none permitted to be taken away on any account. m
: Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety
of French Liquors; together wi-.h the ui'ual refrelhmctits, t f
will at all times be procured at the bar.
1 Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated With -
- the choicest of Wines, Spiritupus Liquors, and the most j,
e approved Malt Liquors from London and ofher breweries, f,
The Larder will befnpplied with the prime and earliest j (
prodnSions of the Scafo'n.
Large and small Farties, or lingle Gentlemen, may be (_
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, ot Suppers, at Jj
, hours mo# convenient to themselves—a cold Collation is ,j
, regularly kept for conveniency, tht Bill of Fare t® be had c
at the bar. tl
The Lodging Rooms will be comrlftely ftifniihed, and
the utmost attention paid to !'s, and every otl>e."
requisite. j
Sumuel Rich A*nET will behappy to receive, and t
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
e himfelf that nothing on his part lhall be wanting to pre
:t serve that patronage wtth whieh he has beefi so diftinguilh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. mwf
Tfeafury of the United States*
NOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or
may be Creditors #f the United States, for any sums
), of the Funtlrd Dibt, or Stoci, itJring 3 frejixt inUri-Jf of Jix
r- I per it*tumper aitnm.
j ill, That pursuant to an A<3 of Congress paifed on the
>• 1 28th day of April, 1796, intitledan a&.in addition to an
:r a<ft. intituled "An aA making fuither pr«viCon for the
'8 , support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
" public debt," the laid debt or stock will be reimburfcJ and
! paid in manner fbllowiug.to wit. " First, by dividends
'S « to be-made on the last days of March, June and Septem* J
" Wr for the prrfent year, and from the year one thoufabd .
" seven hundred and ninctT-feven, to the year one thou
-1 " sand eight hun :red & eighteen ioclufive,at the rate of
« one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
,e " Secondly,by dividends to be made on the lad day of
c - " Decemb#r for theprefent year, asd from the yorea*"
i " thousand seven hundred and minety-feveß, to the year
1 " one thousand eight hundred and seventeen incluli»e, at
_ " the rate of three and one half per centum upon the flri
" (jinal capital; and by a dividend to 4>e ma .c 01 the last
" d»y of December, in the year one thousand eight hua
« dred md eighteen, of fi.ch sum, as will be then a>Je
« quate, according to the contrail, ior the final redtmp
" tion of the fckl flock."
id. AH difliawion payments on account of
Intend and Prictipal being thus abolHhed by the Jlablifh
ment oj the permanent rule of reidiburfauent abevs de
scribed, it has become neceflary to vary accordingly ithe
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
is eftablilhedfor all powers of attorney which may be
granted after the due promulgation ol this notice, viz.
it KXQW ALL MEN £T TH£S£ P£ES£NTS, tin
I '/
r ajtr, tat/hlite axJ appoint
& of true o*J Ir.sf-u! At~
forwrf. fortu,a*iin try u#, f> referee tie dir-Urnti '.civi art,
vr/cm. it paxallt !c tie (here defcrihing tht
» jck) Jitriimp in txy *zrr.t ix tie ixij ,f (here deici ibing tht
books of the Trcafury or the Cotnmiuiener of Loans,
, where the Hock is credited) from (here tnfert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
, attorney is to continue) tciriprmer alfs <ti tiitrmcy w e!!cr
niet mnJrr Hm,f,rtbct piurpcfcH make SxJjjAy:twU,m*Qf> St att
Unfi.l a3j rtfuifsuftr ;f«Sa> tkefrtnifee, iertby rat./vay M
nmfrmimr mII thet t*\fad AtUnuj tr I<l.fj.-L' L-rxfal
■fy A, *iMw heretf.
I* IViatfi hereof, I bcvsierni:t: fit aty HojiJ txi S.il tlx
dej ms in tie %eir
SceueJ and Ldrpered
'« prrfr^jf,
SS I-r KiWO fTN, tiat.n tie imj.f
fc*,s efrrelatperf**Uy came
i tvltHa named and ntievxite/rfJ th letter tf aiUrnts to be
' ds >
Jm uAumvmy zticmf 2 bj** bereukto Jet my Hand trJ afix
,.C t>* SsjJ tc* a'jy axevtar '*8 tzfirrfaid.
Oiveti onder n:y Hand at Piulacielphia, this twen-
ticth day of July 1796, pursuant to dire&»ns
>ro " £i«m the Secretary of the Treaftry
SAMUEL MtREDITH,
*7rj y'wrcr »f the Ur.iied State..
* vfst Sj.
Vl L '
A Manufactory FOR SALE. >
A Valuable SOAP and CANDLE
pari of the city ; the work.
on an entirely orljhtal conft.utl.o-, and ballot .he be t y
material,, ana may be set to work ,m.n £ d a tC y. n 3
who with to purchaie, are requefteJ to apply a. . 3, 173> # (
South Second Street. t, I if ton
September 13. —*
City cf Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTI RY, No. 11,
1 FOR THE IMPROVEMENT 0 F THL
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent } 20,000 dollars, & 7 OQO
dwelling-houfs, ) 3°> 000 » lre 5
I ditto rj.ooo &""cjfa 15,000 40,000
I ditto 151000 & '••alh 15,000 30,000
I ditto 10,000 & cifh 10,000 20,000
I ditto s>ooo & cash 5,000 lo, qoo
1 ditto 5)Odo Sc cash 5,000 10,000
I cash prize of t 10,000
1 do. 5,000 each, are - 10,000
ro do. 1,000 - - 10,000
10 do. S9° * * 10,000 qu:
00 do. 100 - • 10,000 tiu
liio do. 50 • • 10,000
4CO do. 15 - * 10,000 del
I,coo do. '40 - 10,000 no
15,000 do. 10 * * 150,000
115,739 Prizes.
3i,26i Blanks. -
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dallars, 400,000
N. B. To fivour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the t.ioT draws
ticket, and the 30,000 the LAiT but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either money
er prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received foi
any number not less than 30 tickets.
► This Lottery will afford an elugant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be ere3ed in the City of Wafhi:.gtoa—
Two beautiful designs are already Telexed for the entire ,
fronts on two of the public ftjuaret; from these prawings '
it ispropofedtoertel two cecireand four corner building., g?
as soon as polfible after this lottety is l'old; and to convey
them, vhen comply, to the fortunate adventurers, in .*
the -mannerdefcribed in the fchettie for the Hotel Lot*"ry.
A nett deduflion cf Eve jaTFcentT will be maae to defray r
the nfceeffary eipeftfes of printing, Ac. and the surplus
will be made a part of the fundintended for theNatianal
University, to be ereded within the city of Washington.
The DraWiog Will commence as foor. as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finifhod ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers aie not prodnced within twelve months after ths
drawing i» closed, are to he considered as given towards
the fun£ for the University ; it ieing determined to fettle "T
the whole business in a year from the cid.ng of tlie draw* | \
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security. co
The real fecuriticsgiven for the payment of theorizes, a l!
ire held by the President and two DirerSiors of the Bank an
of Columbia, and are valued at more than ball the a- la
mount of the lattery. ill
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of dt
> the late CommiiSoners aflifled in the management of the n]
Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous task ar
1 a 4'eccnd time on behalf of the public ; a fufiicient num 0 '
; 1 ber of these having kindly atcepted, it is hoped that the w
* ! friends to a National University and the other federal ob- ai
' je&« may continue to favor the defigp. :Q
By accounts received from the difiereTit parts of the b:
E Continent as well as from fiurope, where the tickets 1 it
1 have been sent for sale, the public ate a (Tared that the ! is
s drawing will l'peedily comratnae, and that ths cart' and p
' caution unavoidably neceflary to insure a fafe disposal oi . n
the tickets, has rendered the ihort lufpenfion indifpeniablc. <J
4 SAMUEL BLODGET. a:
* ,5, Tickets may be had at the Ba.lk of Columbia ; o 1;
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boston b
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Walls h
■' Cooler's Ferry. e4 tl
.5 ' — - ' jj
J VatsonU Answer to Gibbon.
—
yVST RECEIVED, "
And f»r iale by j. CRMRCD, No. 41, Chefnut-ftfeet,
Apology for Christianity,
a /trie' of Letters, addrejjed to
EDIVAIU> Gibeox, Es<J_.
* Author of the History of the Decline and Fall of the
, Roman Empire:
Bv R. h ATSOK, d. d. f. r. s. Bishop of LandaiF.
? Price .75 cents bound.)
Watson's Answer to Paine,
id To be had at the fame place.
Is 'The memki of Religion are amake ! Let tut b*r \
1- friends JUep.
td Sept. 1. ,
5 RAY NE R TAYLO R,
Music Psofessor, ,
" YA ESPECTf-ULLY informs his Scholars, that.be has
tV. re-coromeaced hu attendance after the fumctcr va
cation ; and r as uf\<al, teaches Ladies Siaging and the
Piano Forte. Sept, ?. "jS
" NOTICE.
'T'HE Snbfcri*Jer, hiring been reduced in his circum
X flacccs, hy fonwy misfprtunc#, anJ being thereby
0 £ enable to ialisfy lii« h 3 debts, hereby give* notice to his
Ored itors and to ali pcrioas concerned, that he intends to
ie- of their next
f.ffion to be lidd on the firfl Monday of November ceit.
t- for the benefit of au itel of inf«lycncr.
rm WILUAM EDMONDSON
v _ Eafton, ift of \ht oth month, 1796." lawtiftMN
'bat To be fold,
A PLANTATION, in the town of.Woodbury, couo
jL\- tvof Cloucciter, a«d ftateof New-Jersey, coirtain
iag about one hundred ard fifty acrcs; a suitable propor
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
:n; great part of the arauie land is in a high state of cultiva
-1 tion, ..nd very natural to the production of Red Clover.
L$ ' .On feid plantation there-is a genteel two-story brick house,
with fonr rooms on a floor, and a good dry crllar -under
»he whole ; together with a ba.% corn-c|;bsand carriage
heufe. The garden is large, and contains a good collec
' Hon of the beLikinds of grafted and inoculated fruit t/»es;
the orchard tunfiih of about three hundred grafted appie.
tiees. perfoniailiatd topupdjfc fsidpreiittfesjmay
| be iclormed mt the terms by applying to
tl ' ANDREW HUNTER.
. NY »9 s
To be Sold,
At No. I*B, North Second-Street y and by Jtxxral qJ
e , the Apoibecarus in ibis City.
£ r T" , R\NSFERS of the right to remove pain* and ttifbmma
_ t on* from the human b&dy, as fecuicd Co Dr. ELISHA
PERKINS, by p3-cnt, with inHrumeolsand direfiion* ne
ceiTaiy for the pra&'.ce. Tbis made of treatment is earticu
larly uletui in reiierxng pains in the bead, iacc, teeth, brcajfc,
nj; e% ilomach, back, meurcutifms, reccnt gouts, See. ic.
the of tbis practice, 11 is not pre
faced bat there ate cafet in which this and every o:hci
y. J icmecy may fame limes fail.
7. I June s, law
\ • • v
Walhmgton Caiial Lottery,
N : ° . I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authunk<*
the underwritten, t- rail: :wcnty?f;x
two hundred, and fifty dollar?, for Mr > 4rpole of cutting
a Canal through th : City of froxi :h J&o
tomacto theEaiiern Branch Haruour.
The following i» the SCHEME oC No. 1.
Viz »t Prize of io,ooo do 4 ;ar«, 10,000
i ditto 10,000 10,000 f
»«• *
6 ditto 1,000 6,qoq
to ditto 400 4,000
JO ditto IGKJ 2,000
55 ditto JO 1,7J0
575 c ditto ti 69,008 ,
To be raised for the Caaal, 26,450
5850 Priz«, l/J.ooo
xr6eo Blahks, not two to a prize.
17500 Ticket?, atTen Dollars, - 175,056
The Comttiiffioners have taken the Securities K
quired by the aforefaid ait for the punctual payment of
the prizes. ,
The drawing tins Lottery will commence, without
delay, asfoon as thfc Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be g.wen. ,
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
" diawing is finilhed, ihall be cenfidered as reiinquilhed for"
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signed J MOTLEY YOUNC,
DANIEL CARROvL,»/D.
Lewis deslois,
geouce Walker,
Wm m.duncanson,
THCMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Waffc;»3toa, Feb. H. $
Mordecai Lewis
HAS FOR SsILE,
NANKEENS, long and ftiort.
China, well assorted.
Quiekfilver. " v
Diapers '
Baftas.
Coffi.s. _ .. — - --
Thrrrchrr- KanOKttJjjjefcrr- 1 S
Roll Brimstone.
Sept. 6. tt&flTrt
For Sale,
A LAKG2 ELEGANT AMD WELL FINISHED
Three-story Brick House,
(The late residence of General Walter Stewart)
A VTITH a LOT of GROUND thijreuntobclonging,
' [ VV the weft fide of Third-llreiX} near Union-llreet .
containing in front 32 feet, and in depth 100 feet, to as
1 alley leading into Unian-ftrcet. ThehOofe is 31 feet front
; ! and so feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are
' large, commodiot.s, andcompletely fimlhed; thetwafixft
stories are each 13 feet high; there are 20 mahegany
f doors in the Iwufe ; a geometrical (Uircafe, with Mahec..-
: ny rails and a good Iky-light. Thckitchen is in the ccll
- ar., which is spacious and convenient, and finished With as
oven, stew-holes and pantrks, a servants' hail and large
e wine-cellar adjoining rhe kitchen, in front of which i^-o
- area in which there is a pump Tjie yard is vaulted*-
Communicating with the said buildixg is a aea: three-itory
e brick house, on tlie north fide of Uniou-Ureet, conuiu
s : ing 30 feet front by 20 feet deep; the lower part Of which
e ' is at present occupied as a comptin£-uoufc, the upper"
J , part divided into well-finiihed large chambers. This house
ii ! may at a small expenle be converted iino a convenient
t. dwelling : Theftrce 1 duGr irvery nandipmc, and the front
and back have Venetran window-lhutters. Adjaimng the
0 iall hetfc, upon the let belonging to the firft, are creded
! bathing-rooras, &c. There arc likcwh'e very good coach*
Is heufe and tlables finilhed equal (or nearly so) wiih any in
the city s on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, 5.:4
in depth ou the wait fid.- ol said alley 52 feet. There are
good cellars unde. the whole of the buildings, and 1 wi-itf
room over part of the liable, with a hav-loft over there;
maiwicr. i'or further particulars enquire of
t EDWAAp Ic Co.
' At their Office No. 64 Dock-itrcet. between Wi.nui k Pfat
t &1 i ftrcets.
6th month <796.
F 0 R Tj~L '£.
t A PLANTATION,
A BOUT 12 miles from th : s City, f:tuatc In Ahing*
-£\. ton Towr>(hip f Montgomery -County ; containing
70 acre«, a fiew stone house, two stories high, » rooms on w
floor, «firc places ic each, a tK»oe kitcbcn aud" ftonc
er houic, over an excellent fprinj? of uaier, a bani» flables#
(beds, barracks, &c. A Urge a. pic orchard, and a variety o£
OLberfruit, about acres of cood meadow well wafrroi®
and wood fufficient for fire, ar.d leocioj: tb* place. Foßcfli*
oa may be had the ift of .Aprl nex:. Brmprnf m
ill betaken ia exc! aog., 01 MOKRIS and N CHOLSON# _
M Ph;i: r Vl r h;. v 5 I p:caii>cf 13, 1796.
he Wanted,
Fcr arty ttrm from one t» four jeers,
~~ A HOUSE, pleaiar.tly situated in any of tbe principal
flrests within the pavement, and not «rf diftaat frcra
ti the State-Houft, capable of accomnsodating a Imali f- nii'
by ly ; the house must hare ftablts and coaeh-houfe, »•»<*
his wcnld be required to be ready by tke firft week in No 1
to ven>her next —Eu«uire of the printer. •
ext Sept. 14. *•» * !
FOR S J L £,
jn A very Valuable Ellate,
CALLED rIV ITT & NHA M, fitttate ir. th<r
township of Uppci-Derby, and county of D. nware,
JQ . 7 1-a miles from Phiiadrlphia, and half a mile Iro ™
; n _ flew Wet-em road i containing ajo acres of excellent land,
or 45 of which are good watered meadow, 90 of prime wood-
A land, and the reft arable of th« firft qualky. There are
n . on the premises a good two flory blick house, witli 4 roc:r.s
, cr on » floor, and cellars under the whole, with a '
,( t of Skcellent water in front; a large frame barn, itab.es,
j cr ' and other convenient buildings; a i'moke-lioufe and Iter.;,
e _ fpring-honfe; two good apple orchards, and one of peach
e. es. The fields are allia clover, except thoft immediately
lts . umfcr tillage, and are so laid out as to have the advartage
of water m each of thena, which renders itpcccliaily
nav wnimfor ertiiag.
The Utnatior is pleaiant and healthy, Mfl
cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and tbe
vicinity to the city, it is vary fuitablc for a gentleman >
coantry fe*t.
The foregoing is part of the ellate of Jacob Harman,
1 , deceafcd, and offered for sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
sna OA. %. tt&l" Surviving Executor*
HA .
nc- ■ ■ ———y— ———•
icu
ca^ 3 PRINTED BY JOHN FENNO,
pro- ——No. I I —
iho
CNISNVT4TIEET.
w {Price Eight Dollars per i neadj
v X'Z S "
-H :> ~ '-I