#ajette »/<& Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
i MMSDAr EVENING, AUGUST i 9, 1796. ■ . ■ - -■ f '
Numbzs 1239.] „„ " Tuft Arrived, | ___ For lale
H or Charter
TO THE WEST-INDIES, "
.f** The Snow HOPE, - til
v Rindge, now ready for a cargo, M £ cer
will carry 1000 barrels. If I ' ot e "^ a ß" he will
in five days, will take freight f<*
BoHon and Portland. I Some
»„ I g
For terms apply to . r
Samuel Breck, p*a>. Som(
Rofs's Wharf. •-' Bini ,
Wkffe mav he had, Lonf
A quantity of Bojlon Duck, Engl
'■"g- — 1 Silk .
flfcrgy FOR SALE. The;
The Brig PUNCH, .* Fren
"As entire new v»(Tel, built, finifhcd and fittj -—
j„ the best manner. One hundred and
tons burthen, and will fell remarkably fait. Foj {
terras apply to Mr. N. Sage, at the George tavernl ff
or ™ JOSEPH ANTHONY & Co. ™
Autufi z6, i 7 9 - • f
UNITED STATES, ? Scu
jPENNSYLFANIA UIST'JtICTi j
Xvr nnrfuaiica of a Writ to me direifted from the Honpur
* able Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the Mrifl
■ Court of the United States for the Pennfylvan.a Diftrift,
/Fi// expo fed to Public Sale,
At the Merchants' Coffee-Houfe, in the City of Philadei
phis, on Monday, the 29th day of August, instant, at f» j
The SLOOP called the J
jßßjgjfe Rebecca, J
With all and Cngular her tackle, appa- J
rel and Furniture, as the fame now are ; the said sloop
fcavine l>een condemned, to pay Mariners- wag«, * c -
WILLIAM NICHOLS,' ftUrlhal.
Marffial's Office, 19th August, 1796. —-
For Sale or Charter,
B O S T ° N,
BURTHEN about 1000 Bbls. of flour—(he may be sent wher
to feaat a small expence, her fails and rigging being in A 1
very good order—apply to for t!
James Campbell, or Ih . e
George Latimer. is
April 29, . j e ®
For Sale or Charter, 1 a '
THE FAST-SAILING SHIP
1 LIGHT-HORSE,
LYING at Mess. J. & R Wain's wharf,
two**hundred and seventy tons burthen, a stout, ilrrsng
vessel, and well feund. For terms apply to
Joseph Anthony & Co. w1
A\ig. 84 ,_i-— I C
' For Sale, .. * \
Or' f" " in i fl -llldi CS i - 1 J
THE SHIP ' I i
CERES, ■ I
vjZM&iSkarL. Philadelphia Built, .
ZrylOiveOak and Red Cedar, burthen about 35°° >ar
( ) fels, now difcharging'at Latimer's wharf llusvcl- A
{el is iu excellent repair, well foetidl and will bear a tho- 11
rough examination, and as soon as difchargea w 11. be tea
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to tov
John Vaughan.
July 2 8 ' ; I- fto '
At South-street wharf, ™
WILL BE LANDED, Friday, 19th inft A-ugoft, car
by fitow Hope, from Jamaica, and sloop Sally, pel
from Port-au-Prince,
300 Hhds. COFFEE, £
jo Hhds. SUGAR. th
ylja, the cargo of the SmeJtfl: trig Gujlaf Adolphe, dr
capt. Ram/re, from Gibraltar,
• n and ith proof Brandy, in pipes and hhds.
Hazle Nuts in sacks , t0
K
For Charter, ai
The said brig «>
Gustaf Adolphe,
i- with a Mediterranean pass, r ,
aiSeifei a very fine ve fr e l, about too tons '01
then. Aug. .B.' $ 2we ° 2w S
~~ For Sale, a
The SLOOP
Friendship, h
TJURTHEN 300 Barrels or 1400 t j
1 " J ) bufbels Coal, an excUlent frame, n
Live Oak and Cedar, and well found with cables, anchors q
&c. fit for f&a—now lying at Almond-street wharf, 1 ho- t,
mas IVtirofe's. The ttrms will be made reasonable. f,
Apply to the Owner, No. il2 south Front-flreet, next
door to ToH'.ith.m Penrofe, Esq. Aug. 19 I|ef4 c
' I — — — —! c
Prime St. Croix Sugar C5 3 Rum, ' J
Landing at Cliffords Wharf, from on boatd, the brig t
Pragers, Capt. Thpmas Watson—
A ltd for Sale by {
Praters & co. \
"'AuS'ufl 26. dipt. t
FOR SALE,
A Complete Font of Brevier,
ONtirely new , and yet unopened. The weight of this 1
J_j ftrnt i? about 312 lb. It is from the Fcundery cf i
Wilson & Sons, Glasgow, and w illbe fold at cost & chargei. '
Alio for Sale, a pair of Super Royal. Chafes.
Enquire at the Office of the Gazette el the United '
State,, >19 CUefnut-ftieet. xug. 19 §4W 1
Wants Employment,
YN a genteel family, refide,it 111 town or country, i
A French lady lately ajTrivtd in this city. She has re
ceived a good education and can be well reaommend
ed. She wishes to undertake the tuition of children,
and will teach them to read, write, and fp;ak tie
f rcnch language, in a short time, by principles limple,
lit very i Tfeliigibler. She \*ili also infirufl them in
history, mythologie, &c. and will be careful in paying
f.riil a.teijtion to their morals ; her terms will be very
moderate. Apply at Nc. 15, Lombard-Street, PhiU
iKU-tyhia. Au-Jjuft 20. Jtot d
Wm. HOLD ERN KSSIi, lf the Sl
No . 76 High Street,
TT« received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and 5000
H the r"a IndiM, a well felefted assortment of B.lk 100
Mercery Liner) Drapery and Haberdafliery Goods; wine. An A]
he will fell, Wholesale afld Retail, on the lowest term. ,
amongst which A*e, On boar
Some fine India muslins embroidered with gold and frlver
Superfine Book, Jac.net, "^Mulmul^^^^
Some extra bheS,taffeties,lut€ftringsand colored Persians April
"' Bandano Handkerchief . .... t
l.ong aud Jhort'Nankeeris
English Mantuas of the firfl; quality J
~ Uamalk table linen and napkins, very fine
Silk Hosiery, an elegant assortment O
Thead and cotton do „ g
Umbrellas—g«en .silk, oil d do. and 4° 010111 Au „_
French cambrics, very fine . > I —
, lrifh Linens, do. &e. &c. J""* 14 Jj_
For Sale,
L \ Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
I £\_ street, between Front and Second flreets, in wteich
k MefTrs. James Calbraith & Co. have for many years (ind ,-p HA
1 kiow do) carried onJ«rt(#«#►»■»* ■»*'«• W . 1 Stat
g^ vcn one mont "> or l ot:)ner * #i of Mav
■ afjfly to WILLIAM B&LWwJVJ ancc of
HECTOR CALBRAII pu | c ._
■ - —«• ' -■ '§ lV.ll earn,
— rrr wL \,cptb/
'TORSALE, - » \ 1.1•
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4yeaisold,
' in pipes and hogsheads
Ckret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, in pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, in hogsheads
Shot, Not. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Ear Lead, Red and/white dry lead
Steeli German and Russia, in barrels
'* Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpohn, canvas,
'P Tin plates—An invoice Stationary, by
TIIOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
T 1 '■
July 29 - -J—
ELEPHANT.
7hit Animiil is to be seen in High-Street, between
the Tenth and the Eleventh-Street.
HE will positively leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep- jr or an
tember, for Baltimore, in his way to Charleiion,
nt where he will tvin er- n H,.
in ADMITTANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar T h<
The C pANORAMA, or the VIEW of the, CITIES of of Sep
LONDON and WESTMINSTER, Cirtij
It to be Open till the 10th of September, and the sub- of Ph.
jest will then be removed to Baltimore with the LLL- oui
1 HAN div j lttan ce for the FANORAMA, fclle<l
One quarter of a Dollat.
August 3. —5. TC
f, French Goods. «n«
' ng Received by the Sally, Mitchell, from Havre-de-
Grace, quor
, ao Trunks *> SHOES of all colors forts and foes at
I Cafe \ n ,uc "
I Ditto white and colored Silk STOCKINGS
I Ditto Fine LAWN
1 fine CAMBRIC
r i)ittoCactTea v tTcfl-fhnnmy nnAOrenoble Gloves
• For Sale by THOMAS IXAJNJ). *
Aug. °<\ : -
, ar - A very valuable Merchant Mill,
vef- A DISTILLERY and fiREWERY, and sundry STONE J.
:ho- fS- (QUARRIES to be let Reg
tea- 1 will rent my merchant Mil! at the little Falls of Po wo ;
towmac, for any term not less than seven, nor mort than - ■ {
eleven years, from the firft day of September next. The _ d
miil-houfe is 41 by 40 feet, three stories high, built with the
§ stone, and has in, it three pairs of French Burr Stones, two }
overil.ot 18 feet water-wheels, and Evans's machinery'
complete, with every other thing proper and necessary for
™ft, carrying on the bulinefs with dispatch, and at as little ex
ally] penfe as poflible, all 111 good order.—From the mill to my
'' landing.on the Potomac river, (whttecrah, of any bur- u (
then may deliver grain and take in fU ar)' it is about 40 ."7,
yards, and. from thence by water M George-Town and
the City of Walhington, about 3 miles, and to Alexan- jto.
Me dria about 11 rhiles. This situation, aided by a fufficient last
' capital, will command the produce of a very extensive
back country, where Urge quantities of wheat and other
grain is annually made, the distance to it being from 8 I
to 10 miles less than to any reaiket town upon the navi- _
gation of the Potowmac. There are on the premises a P)
large stone Coopers' lhap, a (lone granary, and a commo
dious miller's house. At the landing at'orel'aid a bridge
'is now building'over the Potomac, which is in great lor
wardnefs and probably will be finifhed the enffting fail. „
5 There are alio on the premises, a Brewery and Diltille
pafs_, r y ) built with stone, in them are three stills, two coppers
Wi* with every necessary article, aH new, and in
2w ' goo3-e®dsr, and fufii'ciently large to carry ou the Brew-
try and Distillery upon a very extensive plan. This prop- Qn
erty I will rent for the fame term of years, .
Upon my lauds adjoining the premises, and along the h _
banks of the river, where craft may lead witheafe and dil-
patch, is an i.umenfe q-iantity of building and lounda-
1400 tion -llones. Four quarries are now open, and as many
frame, m ore may be opened with ease: the stone taken from _
ichors quarries is better, and has the prescience at tßis market, . j
Tho- to any other stone brought td it. 1 will rent thei'e quarries
separately or together as may best suit.
, next On the top of the hill, and about 200 yards from the
eo 4 mill, is a flone Dwclling-houfe, large enough for the ac
—■■—■ commodation of a family : also, akitchen, dairy, fmokc
. houfc, &c. and a garden, enciOfed and in cultivation, the
1 foi of which U equal in goodness to any in this lkate. I ; j
; br, S will also rent this property. . f 0
Adjoining to the 'Brewery and Distillery is a Sni(th s
(hop, in which is a complete set of Blacksmith's tools, (
which 1 will also rent, and if agreeable I will hire to the f
hot. tenant two negro blacksmiths, one of them is a complete
workman. '
I! I rent out the stone quarries, 1 will fell three cratts,
which were built for thepurpofe of carrying stone they
c ,v- will altogether bring upwards of 90 perch. Immediate
-r cf P offdilon wiU bc g' ven - For terms a Pl fr >' to tke ' übfcrib
~'J er in this town.
aarges. . rh( . Mj[l) Er6wery a r,dDiftillery, with the.r appurten
rT , ances, will bc deliverod to the tenant or -.enacts in good
r repair, and muftbe so returned, at the expiration ot the I
- 4VV -~*> lcafe or icafes, A
PHILIP RICHARD FENDALL.
Alexandria, Augj. i6 —25
itry, 2. "
To be fold,
Udren, On Twelve Months Credit,
ak tie lf applied for* immediately,
fitnpie, Q ne Hundred Fhouland Dollars,
bem m Ard one hundred and eighty thousand acres of good '
lVr*y L A N D,
I Phi: A- In the Hate of Virginia. Appl) to the Priater.
ot d Aug. 19 $
Just Arrived,
If. the Snow Boston, James ICirkpatrick, master from Li- ,
■ verpool,
d 5000 ISufhels SALT ;
k 100 Crates QUEENS WARE; and 3^
h An Assortment of SHIP CtfANDIiERY ;
FOR sale 4°°
On board, at Pine-llreet wharf. Apply to
;r James Campbell, or jam
George Latimer.
15 Apri! 39; corF
Landing; c&ri
From »n board the Schooner Expedition,
St. Croix Ram & Sugar, bost
For Sale by F. COPPINGER,
Aug... "I S°"th Front-street._ g
duty on carriages.
ut _ From
ch Notice is hereby Given, ter.
HP HAT agreeably to an a£l of Congtefs of the United
1 States of A merica, palled at Philadelphia, the 28th day
-4 of Mav, 1796 i '-y in g dull< " 4 0n .ot the coavcy
kr <n.ce of persons, and repealing the former acts for that
p o le.—- Ihat 1 here (ball bc levied, colleftcd 4nd .P» ld ' "P" a
■ Vail carriages for the conveyauce of persons, wnrch (hall be
~iKept by or for any person, for his or h«r own use, or to let
!l Ait to hire, or for the conveying of passengers, the fcveral du
u ties and rates followirig, to wit. .
' For and upon every Coach, 15 dols. J u
upon every Chariot, 1 2 dols.
upon every Post Chariot, xz dolsi -
every Poll Chaise, 12 dols. 1
upon every Phaetoii, with or without top, 9 dols (-
, upon every Coacliee, 9 dol«.
upon other Carriages, having panne! work above,
with blinds, glasses or curtains, 9 dols.
upon four wheel carriages, having framed polls and
topi with steel springs, 6 dols. '
' 1 "' upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden Or iron SI
springs or jacks, 3 dols. T
'• upofituFrithfi wnh tops, 3 dols. \\
upon chaiseS with tops, 3 dols.
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols. , ■£,
ufon fulities with tops, 3 dsls. jj,
upon other two whi-1 top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with steel or iron springs,
3 dols. .
3C P" For and upon ill other two wheel carriages, « dols.
ton, upen every fout whc il carriage, having framed pots
and tops, and reltiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
>llar Xhe Collectors of the Revenue of the firft lurvey ot the
Diftrifil of Pcnnfylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th day
Sos of September next, for the purpose of rece ulng the d j"'« °"
Carriages, ai No. 117, in R. ce or Saffafrai,ftreet, in the City
sub- sfPhilaJelphia, at the house of Daniel S. Clan, tq in the
;LE- County of Montgomery i and at thj house of Abraham Du
'hois, j.fq. in the CmXity of Bucks; ol whicn all persons pof- By
feffed of fucn Carriages are deii.ed to take nonce.
Notice is also given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign ditlilted spiri
tuous liquors, lhat licences will be granted to them ; one li
cence tu; carrying on.tlve i.ufinef. ol retailing of Wmes, IB »
J,. 1 c ls quantity, or in lcls quantities than 30 gallons—and one ,
licence tor carrying on the buhnels of retailing Spirituous li
quors in lelsqua,. uies than so gallons,at the fame time and rio
r l2es , at the Uine places, by tie officers' legally authored to grant
luck licences. WII LIAM NICHOLS, ~"
Infpeftor of the Revenue of the firft survey J
of the
Office of Infpe£lion,at P "3 3® •
irrr STunaCTpinitrTTff »79 & >
"Take notice, •.
.L, Application will he made for the renewsf'of
"ONE 1 the following certilcates, issued by Jofep»i Nonrlc,
Rcgifrer of the Trcafury, in the name of Roger Gnl
lf Po wold, Esq. of Norwich, Conneilicut—
-'han "Tcertificrfte, si* percent domestic ftcck, I'-o. 13,907 1 - Qi
The _ datcd t he i 7 thPecember, 1795, bearing interest from
' vvlth the si. ft day of January, r?Qt, for 1,597 dol- co
:s, two j ditto, thro per cent, domestic stock, No. 10,652
hint ' 7 —dated Deiember 16, 1795; bearing interell from the. _
! f y firft <hy of January, 1791. for 994 .50-100 dollars.
' Ie I ditto, deferred stock, No. 9 ,i-i6-dated thel7th
,w y December, 1795, bearing interest from the firft Janu-.
L ary, 1801, for 79? 83-100 dollars. N
vn and Sai l certificates are fuppofed-to have been loft or c
.lexan- fto'en in this city some time m December or January ; k
flicient last.
tensive JOSEPH THOMAS, C
1 other No. 59. North Front-street.
from 8 Philadelphia, July si, d6w - }
nifes a Philadelphia, Weft-Che Her, Strajburgh, f «
ZTz Ldncaflei, Tork and Frederick-town xn .
at for- STAGES.
' a ''" 1 proprie'ers of the above Stages, return their b«fl "
JUTille- tha ' nks tQ their friend , and tht public i n general, for ,
coppers encouragement received in this line of buftnefs, and beg (
a ' Ki ln leave to inform the public, that they arc determined to run
BleW " their"stages through from Philadelphia to Lancaster in
is prop- onc da commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July inftanr,
. in the following manner,—via. A Stage will set out 011
on S ' he t hat da") at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the house ol
anddil- 6e Weed, Market-street, Philadelphia, and run by
lounda- wa; , of We ft cn ,.ft er an d Strafliurgh, arrive in Lancaf
s many tcr the fiime evening, on Friday morning run to Wright's
jm j- err „ an j exc hsnge passengers with the York and Fredej- t
market, • iet-tcwrt stage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat- s
quarries ; ir( j a ,„j Monday mornjng following, at 4 o'clock, t
said stage willfet out from the said George Weed's, Phila
rom the d(il hi J aai arri ve at Lancaster' the fame evening, on
the ac- Tuc r di y mo rning at 4 o'clack will set out from the house
, imokt- o( . m,.,;. Errwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia
iion, the the fame even ; nK> an d will commence again on Thursday
te- morning; following, and continue every week—The price.
■, , for each passenger from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three
Smith s donarsand a half, to York, four dollars and three q»ar
-1 s tools, t0 p reder ; c k town eight dollars, the like Cams for
re to the t , o ' we ight baggage, with the usual allowance of 14 lb.
:oi«plete „,. at ; s tu eachpallengcr, and 5 pence a n-.ile for all way
f passengers. 3°~§4W
John Reilly,
amediate George Weed.
fubferib- " .
ppurten- Sales of India Goods.
n"of'the The Cargo of thelhip Ganges, cr.pt. Tmgey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
-j A I T CONSISTING OF
' ,v Laree and general assortment of ficngal and Madras
— A tOTTON and SILK GOODS.
among which are
A variety fine worked and plain Mu/lins,
Dorj»s, tsfe. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
LARS, In boxes ani brgs—and BLACK PEPPER,
,f good • For Sale by _
Willings Francis,
No. »i P«»n Street.
§ June 8
For sale by the subscribers,
----- IN PENN-STREET,
H3O quarter Chests trefti liyfon Tea;
leo ditto do. frclh SoUchong Tea;
3co boxes China, containing fni&ll tea fttts of 4a
pieces;
400 pieces Bandar.oes.
Willing* Sf Francis*
January .10 ,;taw.
FOR SALE,
' COFFEE, in hhds. bbls.fc bags}
COTTON, of Demerara, and > eiiUilcdto drawback
SOAL-LEATHER 3
Also,
BOSTON BEEF, and Mould and Dipt CANDLES.
Apply 10 ISAAC HARVEY, Juw
]No. i south YV atsr-ft: ect.
8 mo. to. ' v '
Landing
From on board the' Nancy, William Belcher, mat
ter, fiom Bourdeaux, a cargo, confiding ot
d 360 Hhds. CHOICE C-LAREI,
Y 2Z2 Cases of 24 bottles each, Claret,
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
* BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and
>e > TRUNK of RIBBONS,
« For Sale by
■" F. Coppinger.
My * ; „
New-England RUM in Hhds,
COUNTRY GIN in barrels,
JUNIPER BERRIES in Caiks,
SPERMACETI,
nd , COMMON WHALE, and > OIL.
TANNER-S v J
on SPERMACETI CANDLES,
Tallow Ditto* Mould and Dipt
White SOAP,, in Bo*cs
Beft'Bofton BEEF, in barre'.s and half barrels
CODFISH, in hhds, .
Belt Boftoti MACKREL, in barrels, and
A few choice fmoaked SALMON, For Sale by
lgs , A tew enojee JoSE p H ANTHONY & Co.
Also, a fraall invoice gf well assorted
t 11\ T DI /I GOODS,
the JUST ARRIVED.
Aug -" -
lh * 7 bis Day is Publijhed^
ll Bv WILLIAM COBBETT.oppof.te Chtift-
Church,
A new Drawing Book,
■T From the Studies of the best Matters,
in a p r \ee 1 Dollar and 25 Cents.
is °"i e With a generous allowance to Drawing Mailers,
'Ld Book Selleis and Staviorters.
jram Aug wit 2/. . *
lrve y N<*t v>irk will be JuhmHUi to public infptf ion,
The PROSPECTUS
Of a New Periodical Work entitled
7be United States Magazine,
.|i o f And Repofit'ory of Ufetul in 3 Entertaining Know
ledge ;
'^\ c ' Which will be coadu&ed on.i new, liberal, artd interest
ing plan—each r.umber containing befiijes the usual quan
tity of letter press, two neat engravings ?nd a favourite
fongfit to muiic.—Pfice only one fourth of a dollar ; the
T publication to commence on the ift of Febrnary 1797, and
I*/ o continued monthly.
3,682 ■ Aueuft a 6.
m the "
rS i' 7 thi Brokers Office, and
Jariu-. COMMISSION STORE.
No. 61 South Third ftnret.oppofite the national new Bank.
or QAMtIEL M FRANCIS and JOHN VAN REED,
iua:y ; O have entered into co-partuerfhip, under the firm ct
'•FRAUNCIS & VAN REED, in the business tjf Broker ,
'Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. 1 hey buy and
"Tell on commiflion every species of flock, hotes oi hand,
sw. "bills of exchange, houses and lands, &c.
* Money procured on deposits, &c. See. all kinds e
f-crh, 'writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatness and
'f difoatch ; accounts adjusted, and books fettled, in the
>U % mot corrcd manner. Constant attendance will be given.
\ They solicit a share of the public favor 5 they are deter'
• bad nVUed to endeavour te deserve it.
'[ r A B. The utmost secrecy observed.
Ji_ '• "J SAMUEL M. FRANCES,
ndbeg J JOHN VAN REED.
fter In Au s uft I? 9 6 - m&wtf
out on U/afWton Canal Lottery,
tbt • NO. I.
.ancaf- "\"TIrHEREAS the State of Maryland has authonfed
'right's VY the underwritten, to raise twenty-lu thousand,
Fredej- twoiundred; and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
, n Sat- a Ctnal through the City of Waihingtpn, from th Po
s'dock, torafeto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
Phila- The following is theSCHEME of No. I. 5
ing, on .1 Prize of iO.OTO dollars, io,ooo
: house S I ditto 10,000 ro.ooo
delphia * 7 last drawn 3J) c O O
lurfday ? Tickets, each >
ic price ' 6 ditto 1,000 6poo
is three to ditto 406 4,006
e quar- jj 40 ditto 100 »,000
'.ims for . ditto JO s ,"j°
14 lb. f 5750 ditto 6), cob
ill way * jTo be raised sot the Caaal, 26.450
-§4 W -y. " ■ x
• ! 5850 Prizss, 175» c0^
f 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
. r ' 17^00 Tickets, atTenDollars, - 173,000
Xlie Commifuoners have taken the Secui ities re
'• by the aforefaid aft for the punftisal payment «f
>m Cal- the Arizes. * ,
ife cPuwtag of this Lottery wtll commence, without
delay, as loon a; tW Tickets are fold, of which tlmeiy
1 Madras notice will be given. .
Such ■prize* as are not demanded in ux months iter tne
drawing is finifhed, Oial! be considered as relxnqu flie 1 for
1 DANIEL CARROLL, </a
r, LEWIS DEBLOIS,
ER, GEORGE WALKER,
$ Wrc. M.DUNCANSON,
fU S THOMAS LAW,
t * i JAMES BARR'i •
C § 1 Csv of WaiingtoH, Feb. 11. S
* V
jf ■''! »Philip Nicklin & Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
Souchosg v
Hyson Skin )
Young Hyson > -FRESH TEAS
Hyson. and y
Imperial
Yellow Nankeens
Ware, aflorted in Boxes and Ghefts
Quick silver
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality in
ehefls
London Market ~) MADEIRA WINE
London particular >in pipes, bogfteads, &
New-York Market J quarter calks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hoglheads
Sugar Candy bythe Box '
Sail Canvas No. i a 8
Lead in fheetß
3 Calks of Cutlery aflorted . .
A fev' chests of Manchester Goods, aflorted thick
sets, corf's, llripeii Nankeens, &c.
3 Small patkapes of black sewing-silks
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-root.
Nails aflorted in calks
Jtilv- t 8 mw&f
George DO&SON,
BIiGS leave to inforirt the Store Keepers in Town and
Country* that he has removed from Market-Street to
N°* 25, south Third-street,
wh&rc he is opening a Large and Elegant Affortmcnt ot the
undermentioned articles—viz.
Superfine London Cloths and Kerseymeres,
Yorkshire second Do. Do.
F.laftic do. do.
Mix'd and Blue Coatinga
Flannells, &c.
Manchester Prjnted Callicoes,
London Chintz ditto,
Blue and ditto Furnitures,
India ditto,
Long Cloths, Coflfaes, Baftas, BattilTas& Conjevrems,
4-4 g-8 5-4 & 6-4 Superfine India Bo®k Muslins,
4-4 and g-8 India Book Handkerchiefs,
4-4 and 9-8 Scptch
4-4 A 6-4 plain do. Muslins,
4-4 & 6-4 British Jaconets,
6-4 Britiih Checks and Stripes,
4-4 India do. do, do.
4-4 ditto Chilloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, &c.
A large aflbrtmeru of figur'd and plain Mufiinets,
Quiltrngs, Dimities, and Striped Nankeens,
Fancy Waiftcoatings,
Ginghams of the firft Quality, fabjeft to Drawback,
India Nankeens,
Men's White and coloured Silk stockings.
' 9
¥übliJhed. by T. No, 60, South Second
Jlreet.
The Group ;
Or, An ELEGANT REPRESENTATION
ILLUSTRATED.
Embellilhed with a beautiful head of
S. VERGES, C. S.
THE publisher thinks it a mark of refpeA, due to a
liberal and enlightened public, to inform them that
this is the Poem for the publilhing of which he has been
twice dragged from hi« house, and is now laboring under
a vexatious profec'ution He i« conscious that the piece
contains nothing either criminal or offenfive, unless ori
ginal wit. deroi ated in elsgant language, ba criminal or
dlfgutling to the prevalent talle; and, as.he trusts that
neither of these i-, the cafe, he submits the work to the
•public with a,full a durance of its meeting with a favora
ble reception.
He would beg his prosecutors to call to mind (if they '
have ever read it) the following apologue to a w#llknown
ropiance—" A young painter, indulging a vein of plea
santry, Iketched a kind of Convtrfation Piece, refpeAinga
bear, an owl, a monkey, and an ass; and to render it
more striking, humourous and moral, diltinguifljed eve
ry figure by some emblem of human life. Bruin was
exhibited.in the garb and attitude of an old, tOothless,
drunken soldier; the owl perched upon the handle of a
toffee-pot, with fpefiades on his nose, seemed to contem
plate a newfpapir; and tho ass ornamented with a huge
tyt-wig (which, however, coifld not conceal his loi.g I
ears) fat for his pidlure to the monkey, who appeared r
with the implements of painting. This wiimfi.algroup \f>
afforded some mirth, and met with general approbation, j '
some mischievous wag hinted the whole was a lam- I t
poon upon an old officer, a phyfieian, and a n.cmber of I t
Parliament; an infmuation which was no ieoner circuUt- } r
ed, than these people began to be . larnv d, and even to I i
fancy tin mfe Ives figrified by the several Pgures in the I
piece. The furious group fell upon the paii ter, who dc-l '
dared that be had no deiign to give offence, or to tha- lj
Ta&eriz«s par cular pcifon-. '1 hey affirmed, tie rrfcmbtaneej t
■was too palpable to ic ovcr/vtieJ, — and their clamours btinj [
overheard by the public, the Captain was a bear, th
Dodrr afl Mis, and the Stnator an owl, to their dyin; |
day."——lf a limilar f«ire Ihould attend che persons wb \ s
♦will insist upon being the members of this group, th : c
public will do the publisher the jufticc to remember tha a
it it no fault of his. • T
August tj. dtf '
Lottery /Y
FOR railing fixthoufand fix hundred and fixty-f/^n/
deliar* and fifty cents, by a deduction of fiftoeifcierf J
cent fuonvfhc prizes, and not two blanks toa,priz«7fjfe./
I Ps ize of 5000 dollars is dollars Ifcct
i 1000 JK3o
- * JOO v |oo
5 200 ideo
SO' 100 iCCC
99 J° }9jo I
tOO JOOO
4000 IO 1 ? QOO t
5 Last drawn numbers of iooo dollars each, jooo t
4331 Prizes. 4 ,450 *
4018 Blanks. I
* e
<350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 4 )4 j o t
By order 6f the Directors of the Society for till >lifh— ,
ing tflfefulManufa&ures, the fupcrintendants of thi Pat- l
erfon Lottery have requeued the Manager, to off< the
foregoing S.heme to the public, and have directed them 1
to refund the money to those persons who have pur lafed t
in the former Lottery, or exchange the tickets for t :kets t
in this Lottery. ) V r
she lottery has aitually commenced drawing, an will
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blanks J sizes
:na» be fecn at the office ol William .64 a
foutii Second street, who will give information where n
et' may he procured. •
Dated this 17th day of Jun#, 1796. ,
J. N' GUMMING, ")
JACOB R. HARDENEERG, Macj -ers. "
JONATHAN RHEA, V" n
~ t ~ WILLIAM HASSEITfON. S "V. "
WAS committed, to the goal of Dauphin cout y|
■the 2.-th July lail, a lad who calls , in>felf
\VIJ-UAM Hasselton, aged about 13 years, and lis red ,
hair—fays he was an indented apprentice to one \mes .
puMSTEii, V.Taver, now in Philadelphia , and hat lived "
frme tiir.e with Peter Egart,*near New-Holland, L,l tjeaf- ae
ter county ; and further lays, that his mother lii » in
Brandywine-bundrcd, near Newport. The mafti ror w
owner of the said boy, is hereby notified tojeome am pay
■ the charges and take him away, otherwise he will b dil- ,v
charged by-due course-os law. JOHN M'CHESNE f,
*, liarrjburjh, AugaftZJ, 1756. jt Jail r. a
-"-VT''-W'i-—-L H.W
List of Prizes and Blanks in tie Hhtjhingtvi,
, Lottery No. 2.
141b Day's Drawing, 20th.
No. Dots. JV». Dili. No. Dots. N». Dtls.
93 25167 JO 36601
869 13087 3J3 jo 673 •
. ji3s «8* 10 6ot 781
1 2887 42 1 IQ *6031 37031
3450 10 563 »<H
661 609.10 7P6
& 69-) 877 ' 613 871 10
737 14007 750 to 381560
963 ®-8 780 550
4044 i« ®i 8 877 39106
347 809 27188 40
66s 97° 10 805 »o
759 '5°3« 197 10*69
c- 554° , a 93 809 804
97g 16189 841 50 4*^ 2, i 10
792 29388 347 JO
914 25 913 10 765 410 10
7402 17097 956 466
647 10 391 30054 996 10
8412 618 to 42pig
57,3 10 797 ggt) . 48,3
983 988 10 31296 43J53
d 9482 ro 997 307 » 44354 10
0 545 18546 10 -05 10 810
644 10 978 733 10 855
866 10 21240 32560 45298 10
re I*ols 22275 10 587 373
565 10 297 10 33419 456 10
9'5 73i »° 34377 979 »5 I
11239 77® 480 i ts 46403 10 J
300 23957 636 47105 to /
581 10 24068 35166 10 632 /I
688 10 " 100 218 48284 Mi
757 3"'° 37' 775 fl
8?i 737 413 49012 f I
12096 771 JO 428 231 p 1
291 991 51510 800 f
466 25072 /
15'h Day's Drawing—Monday, August 21.
No. Dolt. No. Dots. N«. Dots. No. Dots.
170 10 10194 *4697 20 36011
260 611 25225 is 214
1166 11908 10 • 454 S p3
261 12163 467 10 327
53 1 330 1 552 10 701
770 10 13337 26051 10 789
99° 564 808 881 25
2985 10 14650 2744° 10 37260 to
4 e56 10 904 815 10 89583
s°3 s , 15558 28553 40437
j 199 844 a9 7i5 | 7 i
290 10 16307 10 766 4138'
477 18862 io 30221 20 424^)2
554 10 894 354 io 682
776 10 900 765 10 44587 10
1 6373 19091 807 10 45096
658 9(2 995 *04
949 20565 t« 31295 845 40
7"S 10 tn* 327 46319
1 888 fBo 552 7 <4
8026 645 i* j't37 47 10
363 10 23'34 33853 to » 5 i to
458 483 10 35543 576
767 10 » 729 ,581 49561
97*8 14431 636 10 794
Philadelphia, Augu/l 29.
Tefierday arrived the Hamburg Pack
et, Capt. Clay, by whom, London pa
perrto tbewtb of July "are received,
from which the following intelligence if
taken. >
J PARIS, June a^..
/ " The reports of peace, which were believed for
days, and which (fays L'EclaiiJ we only ,
/repeated alter the public .voice, are
; the anival in Paris of an Austrian secretary of Je.
gation to Switzerland. We are allured he came
to propose an armistice ; but the conditions could
not be agreed on. This Secretary is returned —
It is believed that there is not now any open nego
ciation between "Franee and Auftna."
Adtt, Miniller plenipotentiai'y of the Republic
to the Upited States of America, had demanded a
fucccffor. The direftoiy long fought for ooe.
That embassy had been offered to several citizens,
who had refufed it, and particularly to Marey. Cir*
ctimftances have changed in America," and at the
anii-Englifn party having recovered their influence,
has expressed a desire to retain his fituationj
t fwhich the Directory has complied with.
V.
ARMY OF THE SAMBRE AND MEUSE.
Jourdan, Commander in Chief of the Army <>f
the Sambre and Meufe, to the £*ecutive Direc
tory.
Head quarter# at Coblentz, June 20.
" Citizen Directors,
" I HAVE the honor to inform you, that that
part of the army which was td retreat by Nieu
wied, pafied the river the day-before yeflerday in :
the greatest order, and without losing a fingleman,
though in presence of fix regiments o< the enemy's '
cavalry, and of several battalionsxjf infantry, sup- 1
ported by twelve pieces of cannon. The enemy 1
endeavored to deflrtfy the bridge by two rafts which
they launched at it; the firft, without breaking it 1
entirely, Co far-deranged it, that it required several 1
hours to re-ettabiifh it; but this was leon done by !
the zeal, activity and talents of citizen Tirlet, eap- 1
tain of artillery, who commanded the workmenon 1
the bridge; the second rift was flopped before it '
reached the bridge.
" While the bridge was repairing,' the army took
a polrtion on the Suynbach ; whcnce it tefumed its
march in the greatest order; the"rtrtreat was Co. 1
by the cavalry and two battalions of the 30th i
half brigade, under the command of brigadier Ar- a
naud—Thefe two battalion/, and the third re e i- ft
ment of l.ght-horfe, led by Colonel Gro«jean, dif
tingmfhed themselves by the coolness and precision b
which they displayed in then- manoeuvres, which ii
executed under the fire of the enemy's artil- v
'Iu -j at . c!cven at nl g ht » th at part of 4
the bridge of Nieuwied, which extends over "the a
right branch of 4 he Rhine, was reflo.ed without
accidcpt. v
" cber ' w,l ° was retreating on the Sieir, n
was yesterday attacked in the poll of Ukeradt a!
tw. 1" the morning. The enemy', attack was so <
sudden, that he deemed it less dangerous, to" rifle
a battle, than to continue bis j«rest. He theic- d
5* fore male tl>e neccfi..! y dilpo; tioi'3, ;id inarched
against the afiailaiite; h- even beat back the heads
of the enemy's fVrft'cohrtnns, but perceiving a cot
fiderable force, particulatly in cavalry,
on his two flanks, he returned to his.firft portion,
and there maintained himfftlf.
" The a&ion ceased at three in rhe afternoon.
»''• the General was to resume bis march in the night,
to gain the lines of Duffel'dorfF. During our re
tfeat, federal partial actions took place, the parti
culars of which 1 cannot fend you, as I have not
yet received them ; but our troops invariably dis
played both courage and skill, and not a single port
was forced, fu that our retreat was conduced with.,
thegreateft ordpr.
" I cannot, citizens Diretftor*. fufHciently praise
the courage, coolni.fu.and perfcverance of the troops,
who fought for three days, and ptirfued their
in the night j neither ftraggleis nor fugitives
to b« seen ; never did rhe army appear to greater
advantage than during this retreat ; and this it tllf
time to judge of the eondudl both of officers and
privates. T
" The general officers merit the highest com- J
mendatiorrs ; by their talents, their courage, and I
the precision with which they executed roy orders, I
they confirmed the courage of the soldier, and in-1
spired him with that confidence which avtrts difa-i
j&ARMr OF THE RHINE
JjKiiuffman, CommifFatyof the G'?T6r n fn''"'i tB tilfi
ft Executive ntrr^ry.
I /*%•'? Strafburgh, June 23, 11 in the morning.
I TOUR orders are executed. The army pasTed
/ the Rhine this morning at two o'clock. Kehl i«
our own, with all its formidable batteries.—Gene
rals'Defaix, Beaupon, and Pernio, are purfifing th?
enemy with vigour. The stlion (till continues. A
great extent of territory, and a number of vil
lages, are already occupffd by our troops. The
«nemy is quite (lupehed by an attack as warm as it
was unexpected. From five to fix hundred prison
ers already taken, with fcveral caffoons and pieces
of cannon.
" It is not possible lo bestow fufficient commend
ation on the bravery of jhe army, on the precition,
ar.d particularly OYI the discretion with which the
business has been conduced. Yeflerday moving
30,000 men were in the environs of Sttafb 'rgh,
and nobody knew their real destination. At Neu
ftadt, it was supposed, yefterjay morning the head
quarters were going to Turkheim, when they were
dire&ing their march to Strafb lrgh. From such
unanimity every thtng is to be expe&ed.
" I have just left the Cpmmandej in Chief, as he
was parting the Rhine. He will fend off an ex
traordinary cornier to night with farther particulars
of thwglorioijs expedition.
" Health and greeting,
»"W. HAUSSMAN."
W< have at this time 52,000 men in Suabia;
the army of Conde is exposed U the gr«ateft dan
ger, and its retreat appears to be cut off.
Yesterday the feaft of agriculture was celebrated
at Paris.
We were assured, that at the in(ligat(on of the
Chevalier Azzara, Envoy from the King
1 { he D ufee of Parma .h S3 haan in the TTT3- j
ty Vf peace between Spain and France. Confc
quently the French will restore the contributions
whith the Duke has paid, or at Icaft will nor insist
on the payment of that part of them which remains 1
unpaid.
It is believed that the Chevalier Azzara has al
„' ready signed the preliminaries of peace in the
Pops s name. One of the mod curious in
this treaty is that by which the Holy father un
dertakes to put a (top to the schism which exists 1
between the churches of France and Rome.. On 1
the other hand the Ami des Loix affirms that our I
troops are marching to Rome,. 1
1 he Qbferiier of the South also announces, that
General Rufea'at the head of a French Column, <
has marched to Leghorn, and must have reached '
r P 7£ bef ° ,e tb,S 5 that Maffena diretfs the '
£ege o. Mantau ; and that Efpinoi commands at 1
Milan. -
~ M p M - ar.Q Mattheu ministers from ,
the Repab.ic of Gengva, have delivered their let-1 1
tenor credence to the minister oF foreign affairs. <
ul P rov,fion % Citizen Reybtitz, on
whose dismission the Directory infixed.
! V ,S r a f • tHat MfTlin ' ""'nifler of juttiee, has
Lt J ttlSS' fe " of
Great apprehenfioss seem to be entertaktS^Hl
h/v, f i y /f D . ub^« l a«d hi. suite, wio
have fajled for Conftanunople.
The pJan of the campaign formed by the Auftri. ■
arts is known, f hey wtre to force a paflage near H
feSl f 2dt> VoKKon\{ the
If thJ fc ' . :mmidiate] y attack the army
fra({rated Li A I W3B and §
fruit rated. La„da»t has provtfions for fix months
It is reported that 6000 Auftrians have been com' "
pletely de.eatedin Italy 00 their way to join Beau
teu } that we have fccured the sluices of Mantua •
the K- "I 0 1 b,ck,;n ° Ut at Tu "», and thai *
Fren n t 0 take with the
r.rench at Com. We recirat ,W- . , "
'fporti with- p
j COUNCIL OF FIVE HUNDRED.
/ T , F fitting of June 2s.
reflate i ft CC u^ I T l C , crTt an answer t«tbe o
Cration if f ? Uni:il had afkcd for an cx 1
jtfie officers of the'Sy con, P letion of ft
hylmp^ntSS 6 ChargC ofin , aamt - V ; W
Uiis ffait. r,v u " c naT y at P«fent with pi
F wardfof L n^ 8 a , S °' Whfn « ipeaJed that up- d,
llM; n 7d3 h3Ve be " 'qnipped, and that
lat sea' or°fi't' 88 '!? 2Dd I corve,te arc dually m
t"; iff onsd to defend
A mrff Was ° rdcrtd to printed. re
r e£Wv L T as r f ce ' ve d from the Executive Di- w
"Citiz-n's L' Ve -fl ,n lhc fo,lowl ' n g terms:
«ttef from r gl^ a i ers » Wtf have just received a rc
tripv of th pT" tlon ' '"formingus that the re
r
\ , !
edil " The falfe attacks made by General M»rtau
,dsy contributed not a littje to facilitate this evtut, by
n-1 drawing off tlie attention of the enemy to another
fcg Iqtrarter.
n, I "We are mailers of Fort Kehl, and the bridges (
Ire ri-eftablidied. .
n. "We (hall.publilh farther particulars in the offi,
it, rial journals/'
e. The council decreed, on the motion of Boiffier, j
li- hat the army of the Rhine and Moselle had not/
ot peafed to dtfferve well of therr country.
if I .
,ft ' TRENT, June 14.
To day our army quitted its polition before a\
and has advanced several miles nearer to Verona\
f« When the reinforcements which /ire on the road are\
s, mjgfcipjt,will march towards Jtfantua. \
Jff Wc are informed that the garrison of that pbee k,
*{ (oatinuea to. oppose the enemy mod vigo.cuk s mWI
;r it with a very numerous force; \
r? (Tnakes frequent forties which are ail more or left V
J ledruftive to the French ;it is even said that i« |
he last they retook some advanced pods which ths
rnemy h'ad seized on. 1
d ■ Yesterday a spy arrived at head quarters with I
i; «ercdi«g intelligence concerning the affairs in the
iMilanefe. According to his report the castle of Mi
i.ll»n may hold out fix months longer. All the in ha- J
Jlbitants of Lonjbardy, even those of the lowed 1
y r»nk, ardently desire to be delivered from the# /
f French yoke. The French have put garrifong fa \/
all the towns and villages, and they arc obliged t* rv
£ bicontinually on their guard, that they may nor /
experience the effedis of the wrafcibility of the 1
talians.
d The rigorous measures lately employed, hav^ s
s served only to irritate the minds'of the people ire ""
a greater degree. One of those measures whiclj
? has given the greatest displeasure, is the arreftatioil
1 of upwards of 100 of the mod coufiderabla' peo
. pie, who have been conduced to France as hofta./
e ges: they were taken there in pealant's waggons. ' '
t His majesty has just received® present of two
1. fine Arabian horses from the Empetor of Germany. '
s The)* were landed at J)eal a few days ago from the
Elbe.
FRANKFORT, June 21.
t The French army under General Lefevru, which
I tad rapidly advanced to the Lahn, is now re
, treating Hill more precipitately towards the Lower
Rhine and UufTeldorf—The whole country in the
i neighborhood of the Lahn is now evacuated. They
e leave their patroles and advaneed potts in their pla.
, ces to conceal their, re'reat, and the greater part of
them are consequently made prisoners.
. In the a6hon of the 15th near Wetzlar, which
. has had the most important consequences, General
s Bonnard was killed. On the part of the Auftri
ans, Count Schafgotfch is dead of his wounds at
Wetzlar. The brother of General Lefcvrc /as f
(hot, and his body brought off by the inhabitants
. of Wchrdorf, amidd a (howerof ball-, to be bufi
.ed at Wehrdorf On the 19th'the French evacua
ted Neawied, a sally was made ou'them from the
| of Ehrenbreitftein as they retreated from
before it, with oonfiderable effeA.
, The fortrefs 101 l only two men during the block
, LargeKieforcemgntj! n = w
10 Hie R.ri«tngau,lo prevem the French croffins
. the Rhine near Bachera(;h ; 18,000 Auftriars are
1 », po( i e l^ the Pe,erft "g*>. opposite Rheinfels,
. Marlhal Count Wurml'er has just received ihs
j command of the army in Italy. The Arch duke
Charles will be commander iu chief of the two ar
mies of the Upper and Lower Rhine.
1 INSPRUCK, June ij.
. The French appear to have given up their inten
-1 t ' on of penetrating into Tyro!. A part of their
foices has fallen back upon Mantau, probably tp
press the siege, and the other is still- in aCiivity be
tween the iake of Garda and Verona,
It is certain that the enemy experienced a severe
check ob the 2d, in attempting to cross the Adige ;
but the loss was less considerable than has been be
fore dated It is edisiated at 3000 men, from 4
to 500 were cavalry, who endeavored to lwim over
the river.
( At this indafnt it is reported that General Beau*
j lieu has completely beat the corps of the French ar
my commanded by Gen. Maffena.
LONDON, Jun? 29.
the attack made by tlje French upon the
of Wirtemberg's corps, the Audrian regi
ment of Jordis was cut to pieces, and O'iJonnel'i
fre l cor P- s immensely, as did also Barco's
huifara.
A letter from Copenhagen, of the nth inftanf,
informs us, that the Swedifti fleet, composed of, 9
Ihips of the line and 3 frigates, and commanded -
by vice-adr.iiral Nordenfkiold, arrive*] there on the
9th instant, and joined the J)anifh squadron.——
The combined fket, is for the present month, to be
under the orders of the Danish Admiral de Kaas,
SUN OFFICE,
HALF PAST TWELVE—-NOOH.
We have jud received additional Paris journals of
the 25th, to those which came to hand In the
morning. We stop the press to convey to the
public the following letter from Buonaparte,
Buonaparte, Gen-ral in Chief of the Army in
Italy, to the Executive . y
" Head-Quarters at Tortoua.
" The instant I heard that the campaign wa*
opened on the Rhine, 1 marched a column to the
Lake of Como, which ha* taken and dedrbyed the
fort ft Fuentes.
" The Duke of Modena has given 1000 fufees
with bayonnets,, and eight pieces of caHnon 24
pounders, fifteen pieces 16 pounders, twelve 8 poun
ders, and fourteen feur pounde&j.-
" The Imperial Fiefs they com. |
mitted every excess, The chief at brigae'e Lafne,
marched thither with *t'ico men j he burned the
rebels houses, ant} made the chiefs of theia prisoner« "I
who have been (hot.
" fame thing has talcen place in the e.ivi*
rons of Tortoni, I caused- fifteen chiefs to be ar.
relied, judged Ly a military ccmmiffion, ana ihot.
" 1 o ih;s hour we have no lick, and that it very
well, ' " JiuoxATHTBS'
' i ' a. - »*;*' • aThe Redafteur of the 25th has the following
article fr«tri the Editor.
" N. B. The French. 'Journals of Paris, # who
are disfigured every day by publilhing the ridiculous
relations of the French Journals of Frankfdrt,
which are at the devotion of the Efnigrants,, have
announced as inconceivable defeat of the army of
Italy, in an attempt to pass the Addige. What is
mod remarkable in this news, is its absolute falfe
hood. On the 3d -of June General Buonaparte
announced from Verona, that he was pofffcffed of
all the bridges of the Addige ; his advanced guards
were ten leagues from theftee.' No battle had ta
ken pface on the 20th. The republican army ha<l
advanced almost without a blow far on the other
fide of that river. " Thuan."
/ , . J u, y 2
/ We yesterday received by express Par« journals,
/to the 30th ult. inclusive. By these we leatn that
J "the FreHeh unexpectedly croffedthe Rhine at Straf
/ burgh on ths 23d ult. with a very considerable
I force, and taking the Auftrians by surprise made
themselves matters of the Itrong fort'of Kehl, and
j after making from 6 to 700 prisoners, extended
; their deftruitive into the neighbouring
\ eountty.
'l'he Hambutgh mail due yesterday arrived in
tdwn this morning and brought an aecount of fotne
farther advantages gained by the victorious Auitri
ans over the flying French.
Different Recounts from Frankfort of the jft
mention a second action to have been fought at
Okeroth on the 20th, in which the French were
defeated with the'lofs of 1800 men left dead on
the field, 700 prisoners and several pieces of cannon.
These accounts farther state, that the column of
French retiring from Neuwied is cut off, and must
either surrender or be drowrfed in the Rhine. But
it appears from General Jourdan's letter to the Di
feftory, that they have cffefted their passage over
that river.
The French are retreating with precipitation to
Duffcldorf, and the Auftrians are purfufng them
tt-ithei wit h equal The former are said
tc have loft no kfs than 40 pietcs of artillery in
their retreat.
■ The extraordinary Gazette, published last night,
confirms the account in yesterday's Courier of the
actions that took place on the 15th and 16th, on
the right fide of the Rhine, between part of Ge
neral Jourdan's army and the Archduke Charles.
After the battle on the 16th, General Kleber reti
red firft to Ahenkirchen, and afterwards took.pos
session of the heights of Kirpen near Ahenkirchen.
111 that position he was attacked, on the 19th, by
the Austrian General Kray. After a very obfti
natf a£Ho», the Auftrians (the Gazette Extraordi
nary states) drove the French from the heights, but
did not venture to pursue them.
The loss of the Auftrians is stated at between $
and 600 men. The loss of the French at above
JCo taken.prisoners and several hundred killed, be
sides, " according to all report*,'' a great number
wounded. ,
On the night of the 19th, General Kleber cros
sed the Sieg, and dire&ed his march towards Duf
feldorff. At Duffeldorff he will be reinforced by I
t*ie army tin, 'Muak'Uufei —gttifrCg JSoiiaon^
♦aie." 7
July 7. The Sally of Boston, soT aiders, loft
her anchors and cables 111 the Downs, and is goife
' /er Ramfgate pier. I
On Monday an American vessel took Gre it
Aylt s's Dock, New Crane, Wapping, and bur t
tiearly to the water's edge; but by the timely t f
fiftance of the fireman and engines, the flames e :
tended nd farther.
x~ July 9. By letters received from Jersey, i e
fleam, that General Gordon, the commander n
f chief there, having received intimation that aco -
fiderable French force had been collected in tl e
neighbourhood of St. Maloes and Granville, at d
whkh was daily in'creafwg, and that all the bod s
on the coast had been put in requifnion, was prk
\ paring against an attempt upon that island, whiclv
be had reason ta believe would speedily be m~de.
Capt. Manlove, of the Earl of Derby, pafied
Elfineiir the 24th of June, for Rig's. He writes
therii were then .cruising on the North Sea, the
following French (hips, viz. La CarmagnoJe, of 50
guns ; Republicaine 32; Torche 24 ; Foudroy
ante 24 ; and Brilliante 24.
From the l.ondon Gazette.
DOWNING-STREET, July r.
Dispatches have been this day received from
Colonel Graham, dated at the head quarters of Ge
neral Be'aulieu, Cagliano near Roverdo, June 13th
and 14th, by which it appears that nothing materi
al had occurred in that quarter since the 31ft May.
SHEERNESS, June 26.
The diligence aimed hired cutter arrived here
yesterday ooon, with the (hip Stirling, of Boston,
a prize to the squadron under the command of vice
admiral Macbrrde, bound from Surinam to Am
sterdam, laden with sugar, taken off the Texel.
The Diligent left the fleet on the 17th instant,
the Texel then bearing S. E. about 3 leagues,
where there were lying eight (hips of the line, two
firties, thiee frigates, and some corvettes.
FOR SALE,
The {hip STAR,
i J OUK Vans '"mam, Master,'
T' YIHG at Walnut-ftr«et whirs, Philadel
«Bt!ii 1 1 i phi* built, of live oak and cedar, will
carry about 3200 barrels, i» two years old, and in com
plex order to receive a cargo—For terms apply to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
| Who have also for fait said vclTcls cargo— confiiling of--
Wine and Porter bottles,
WinJViw Glass, 6bj 8 toi6 by 13.
Pipes boxes
Jarthetj-Ware in crat-<-
nrind:toi}£s, Coals, Whiting, &c. |
. §
INFORMATION
p given daily cf the draw'ing cf the WASHINGTON
— LOTTERY, at the Office
No. 147 Ghtfnutjlrcct,
between Fourth and Fifth Ureses. Also, where Tickets
, may yet be had. AUg. Jl6. co
('_? The Fourteenth and Fifteenth Days drawing is
arrived. *
R .. —
M Fhladelphia,
os
rt> MONDAY SVENIWG, Aooost 19.
v ' Accounts by the ftmburgh packet fay, that there were
°* oublic rejoicings at Liverpool, on account of Austrian
is Vifiories on the Rhine ; the papers however do not con
fe. tain any details, which appear to warrant this.
,j e London papers lay, that Stocks fejl on the news of the
, French re-crofling the Rhine The reason afligned is that
. Peace "is thereby rendered less probable,
ds ?
!a- " *,* Many interetting foreign articles are necessarily
a( J »mhted this day—is is also the speculation signed " Ob
tr
The Sun of July Ir, contains Morcau's official
difpafches to the. Dirrfftory, dated Kehl, June
s * 24, 25, by which it appears that he had efFe&ed -
the passage of the Rhine at Kehl, and e(labH(jjfetr
himfelf there. He concludes a Jong letter of ya,
e tail by informing the bridge between Kehl
* the Isle of the Rhine was- jull completed, »nd thaf 1
' the remainder of his ariViy was palling it.
The army of Italy had taken the caltle of Urbi
no, Fort Ferara, and Bolegna, in Ferata
. ces of cannon. The details of the above fucceillj-.
:n arc given in letters from Buonaparte and Saliflcict _
'. e Paris accounts to the lit July from the fame '
'• p#f*r mention tf>at some difturhances had tak.en ,
place, but that tranquility was restored. -It was'l
reported that the Pope had obtained' a ceffttioo '
of arms at the price of 50 millions of livres, pifttjres
e &c. Sec.
Paris dates of the 3d July mention that audientic
letters announce a frefti victory gained byMorcaiy'
on the right fide of the Rhin?, and that the Empe
ror's cuirafiers were almost cpt to pieces that th| ,
' liege of Mantua, is carried 011 by 60,000 men.— '
r The king of Naples had obtained a cessation
arms on condition of withdrawing his forces, land
and Naval from the coalition. L'Eclair of the 3d
° July fays ; that the French had gained a figrialvic
d tory, entered Fribourg in the Brifgaw ; this ap
pears to allude to the victory firft mentioned in this
paragraph. It was reported, that Pichcgru had
t taken part df Moreau's army and was marching
' by Conftanee to cut off Beaulieu, enter the Tyro
e lefe by the way of Germany and shake hands with
Buonaparte. Moi'eau in his letter dated Kehl, talks
of (halting with Buonaparte.
A Muuich head of June 26, mentions, that acouJ
J.* rier frorrt Infpruck bro't news of th'e Frejich havira*
taken Polzen, fecartd the passage of Schultz and adV
vanced into the vallies of Friifter and Munfttr.
I A Bruff-ls head of July 1, states the Archduke
!" Charles to be near Duffeldorf. The French weic*
' in poffeffioti of the citadel of Ancoua before the 26
II of June.
Paris date* of tie £th July, f»yj we have certai*-'
J ly taken possession of Leghorn, Ancona and Civit
Vecchia. It is said, that at Leghorn, we tooP
' from the English (hipping &c. to the amount of
r millions. The Ministers of the King of Napki and
j. the Pope had arrived at Paris.
• MANHEIM, JtKB 20.
J' l*he French attained tiie intrrnrti»/l ****.?
"IV>nc Mundehcim, wittl niinicrous forccs, this morn
/ ing. The firft attack was made on the HBe of
dach, at halfpafts o'clock, and sft fix theit princi
e pal «ttack was dire&ed against the extremity of the
entrenched camp, between Rheingenheim and Mun
-11 denheim. The cannonade and was very
'' terrible ; and, after having iacrificed a great many
people, they got possession of Rheingenheim, They
also made several attacks towards Opgetfheim, and
the car/a! of Frankenthal, but Were repulsed. At
e nine o'clock they appeared to direst their principal
n forces against three redoubts that are in the second
line before Mundenheim j but the fire of the Austri
an baffries probably made them gye up their ob
cl At joo'ejoek we no longer heard the found
of cannon. It if now tw<> in the afternoon, an/
\ all is quiet. / j
'• Strasbourg, 10th Meffidor, (June 28.) \|
Our army on the other fide of the Rhine maktl
;s some piogrels ;it attacked the enemy the day be!
Ie fore yesterday (Sunday) at halfpaft 6in the evenlJ
0 ing ; they defended themselves obstinately,
standing which, they were driven from all t
litions, into which our troops entered yefferday
moining ; the field of battle was found covered with)
their dead bodies.
Tl
j- BANKS OF THE MEIN, June 15.
According to letters frotti the left bank of the
'* Rhine, the French were not at Worms on the 14th.
r " On the 14th, one of theit patroles (hewed them
selves on the Pfedderlheim rc_J.
e MANHEIM, June i 5.
'» The attack of yesterday lasted untils o'clock in
e the evening. It appears to have been very serious ;
the cacncm and the mufquetry, the sabre and the
bayonet were all employed, and the cavalry were
'' waimly engaged. The French took, loft, and re
*' took a redoubt upon the Rheeback ; they must
0 haveloft many men, for the soldiers were obliged
to pass the water with their guns over their heads,
1 and under the fire of the Auftrians. The attack
extended to the whole Hoe from Rhein, Gerheim,
and Lipffein, opposite Oggerftleim. The French
inthe morning dislodged the Auftrians from Franc
, kenthai, but in the afternoon the poll was retaken'
'][ from them.
1- This morning every thing is quiet ; the Auftri
ans have concentred their position behind Mandach
to the old redoubt df the Rhine. The French have
it in contemplation to employ the Imperialists in
fuchca manner here as to prevent their detaching
troops to the Lahn.
June 16.
Last night a variety of flcirmiflies took place a
tnong the out pods, on the fide of Mandach, in
which the Auftrians werefuccefsful.
The following article is official :
,J " The intrenchmsnts in front of Manhcim and
Mundcnheim being completed, Gen. Wurmfer in
j the night ot the 15th ftationcd a fuffieient number
of troops in them for their defence. The remain
s der of the detachment which occupied the p'ofition
from Rheingeohcim to Frankenthal have passed
. _ . '•> _ ' -
' the Rhine to take polTcfliait of the ground that it
marked out for theij cncampment. * f
June 17. j
"1 bs aftioft.on the 14th June wu very bloody. -
Ofteach fidS the greatett obition-'y was evinced, t
■ e kft *' ie '°^ s French wis infinitely more con
n fideribie than ours; for after having been driven ;
from feveial redoubts, which they scaled 3 differ
ent times, our cavalry purfucd them to a. great dif- '
>e tance. In the environs of the Rhehutte the ground
i£ is covered yvith dead bodies.
The head quarters of Gen. Wurmfer are at
[y Schvvetzingen. The troops 'which, on the night
s- of the 15th, repafftd the Rhine are going to fechwet- <
zingea. f he-intrenched camp upon the left bank 1
of frhs Rhiiie is defended by 150 pieces of cannon,
atid'SV'a great nutfiher of troops extended from 1
to Rheingenheim. The French since J
!( jf have occupied Qggerfheim and Franckeu (
7>) >t / MENTZ, <Junc 16.
Every thing is quiet in our environs. Theenemy 1
• a re not fee 11 within three leagues from us. It is :
fide of Bingen that they have approached '
K Fheir detachments advance beyond J
L r? the T levy contributions ort the villages
V •pidyhen return. <
SCHWALBACH, June 18. J 1
n morning the Imperial troops who were
-s "**^ e^:nv ' ron3 Dimburg, were put in motion
for the purpose of proceeding to the other fid* of
the Lahn. The Auflrians proceeded dire&ly to ]
MfflSaubar, to pursue the enemy, who were in full
l*etreatvn that fide. They soon came up with the
rear gutrd, and a very bloody battle ensued, in
1 Mie French were roughly handled,.
also retired yesterday morning from
j f l(i Naffou, and were pursued by General j
, Fincki
J ,
r BY THIS DAY's mail.
g ' NEW-YORK, August 27.
5. [Bytha Mary, Capt. Logan, in 45 days from I ,
[j Cork, we have received a Cork paper, of July
:s 4> containing the following London accounts to
the 28th June; five days later than our former
, / adviccsj—
LONDON, June 28.
Prince of Wales came yesterday to Carle
•e a reconciliation took place between
XfJ'd 'he frinccft. They dined together with
£ party. The pew arrangement of the houf
hold will fake place immediately. Lady Jersey re
' -fens her filiation as Miflrefs of the Robes, and
K Ifjl her refpeAs iotneir majesties the firtt court
l ps Jiulter. Their Royal Highnesses will go to the
o" $™' ,n E room on Tfiurfday,- and there will be a fe
|(j riesof fetes given by the principal nobility on the
happy occanon.
Orders have been sent to Brightbelmfione for the
Marine fav ilion to be got ready for the summer I
,I. of •1 " P-..-■• a ..«<! r ( of WaießTnnt"
).■ theif infant daughter.
PL Naples, May 2 j.
Belnuxite, who had been sent to
the French envoy Faypoult,
y °i '^ arn of the French government,
,y Irelative peace with Naples, is returned after
y a grand council of ilate was held, in the pre
dJlfcnce of the king, the queen, and the prime mi
kt (rniftfr Action, at which the proposition of a nego
al jjciation with France was rejeSed, and it was refolv
d led to continue tht,ivar with the utinoft rigour,
i-1 Every preparation is therefore making for the
>-1 defence of the country, and 40,000 men are imcne
dl diately to be railed in Naples and Sicily, to be ad
ds ded to the 10,000 vvealready have. The nobility
I and clergy have been required to contributed the
k utmjjt of their power to the defenee of the kfng-
I \ HAGUE, June tl.
jMTThc greavqueflion which has been so frequently
JBcbated m the Convention, vi*. whether the Na
r?jl'ional Cpnventioii shall have the entire of
yr the armed citizens, and the finances of the whole
hJ Republic 5 was determined in the fitting of l«ft
Taefday, by the majority of a single rote. The
decree only fays, that all farther debate pn the fub
je£l shall cease ; l>ut this may certainly be coafider
e ed asa reje&ion of the proposition.
I.
————
GAZETTS OF yHE UK I TED STATES MARINE list.
PHILADELPHIA, Auguji t 9 .
pf '/
; ARRIVED. days.
c Ship Hamburg Packet, Clay, Liverpool 42
e Voltaira, Bowen, Hamburg 54
Brig Pennsylvania, Moody, Amsterdam 63
~ Schooner Sjlly, Stevens, Londonderry, 45
Swallow, Moore, Norfolk 3
Kitty, Hngene, ditto 3
, Prudttice, Deming, Hartford 6
k Sloop Lark, CroweH, New-York 3
L Brrg Rebecca, Divine, Madeira 35
h Pun«h, Tombe, New-York 5
- Schooncr Little Tom, Dennet, St. Croix 13
n Ship R*erbuek, Shewell, Bristol 56
The Vjoltaire left Hambutgh June 30, and
i- CrUchaven July 5, in company with Ship Maria,
h Ferris, of New York, bound to Rochfort, and the
e Snow Two Friends, for Boston. «
n The Schooner Sally, left Londonderry 12th
g July. The Deborah failed 3 weeks before, with
550 passengers, and the Adojphe 2 weeks before
with the fame number. Tie Eliza for New-Caf
!- tie and New-York; with 180, and William and
0 Henry for do. with 280, were ready to faij. In
the Sally eafne 83 pa'lTengers, all in health, well
treated.
J The Ship John Bulktly, failed from Madeira
n the 17th July, for the Isle of May.
r The Ship Concord, Thompson, from PhilMel*
1- phia, arrived at Amsterdam, June 15. ,
n 22 Ships and brigs are advertised in the Liver
-1 pool papers for the United States.
IITe he Ibid by public Tale,
ON Wednefiiay, the ;th day of September next, on the v
the premifct in Mount-Holly,Burlington county, by j e^a j
the Subscriber, said 1
The Dwel/ing-Houfe and Lot ceipt
Whereon it Hands, having been in part occupied as aft ore if anj
for fevetyj years pad, and in a good (land for bufmefs,to- P u £ c^
-gcther with the store-house, ftablfe and buildings thereon fit ft ■
erc-ded, having two large cellars under them. Also, the dedu
ihop goods and houfehoid furniture. A clear title wilt be nit i?
ffive'n to the purchaser on payment of the mon'y or fuf- meui
ficient bond therefor, and pofleflion of the premies Will
be jrWen in the said month of September.
The sale is to continue 'till the whole is disposed of.
'Mount Holly having become rhe County Town, makes
this property more valuable than heretofore. The condi
tions will be mads khown at the time and place of sale, by Sche
PETER SHIR AS.
N. B. All persons indebted to the fubferiber, are recjueft
ci! to discharge the fame irftmediately, as he intends ioon J
to remove out of thisftate. Any person having a just de tj
mand against the fubferiber, is requelted to produce the
fame for settlement.
Mount Holly, Augtifl 16, 179&- '
City of Washington.
SCHEMEVthe LOTTERY, No. 11,
FOR THE mPROVLMEUT OF THE
Federal city.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & j )00
dwclling-houfe, j ca sh 3°; 000 > lre 5 '
1 ditto li.ooo & cash 25,000 40,000
x ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000 ,3
I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 20,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
1 cash prize of 10,000
400. 5,000 each, are - 10,000
io do. J,ooo - - 10,000
30 do. 500 • • 10,000 3
00 do. 100 - • 10,000
aoo do. 50 10,000
400 do. 35 * " 10,orio
1,000 do. 20 * 20^900
15,000 do. 10 * " JSOJOOO
16,739 Prizes.
' JJ,x6i Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets,the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the last drawn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but oirz :
And approved note's, securing payment in either mon«y
or prizes, in ten days after drawing, will be received so
*nv number not less than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of rhe pri
vate buildings to be ere&ed in the 'City of Washington—
Two beautiful designs are already feledted for the entire
fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings
it is proposed to ereel two centre and four corner buildings,
as soon as poflible after this lottery is fold, and to c»nvey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
the manner described in the fcheme-for the Hotel Lottery.
A nets deduction of live per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expends of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
University, to be erected within the city of Washington.
The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The mone;' prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finifhad ; uid any prizes for which fortunate
numbers Si e not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be conudered as given towards
the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
the whole business in a year from the. ending of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security —
The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Dirtdors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mopnt of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiflloners affiled in the management of the
Hotel Lottery are requeued to undertake this arduous talk
a fecend time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient num
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob
jo&smay continue ,to favor the design.
By accounts received from* the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been fetjt for sale, the public aye assured that the
drawing will speedily commenae, and that the care and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
ths tickets, has rendered the ihorr suspension indispensable.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; o
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boflon
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and oi Richard Wells
Cooper's Ferry. _ c 0
■ 6t 'Sttv '"3)0 siqj aJinbug
•ifiuifng k,, or zoiJ,K3Xddy U V
'O" 3 1 AT V M
A Handsome, well-broke
SADDLE HORSE,
Tor Sale, enquire at the Coneftogo Stable's, the owner
having no use for him.
Aug- 22 m&f2w
Lands of the United States
Treasury Department, -dugujl 3, i 796.
Public Notice is hereby Given,
IN pursuance of an aci of Congress, puffed on the 18th
day of May, 1796, entitled " An a6t providing " for
tfcefde of the lands of the United States, in the Territo
ry north weft of the river Ohio, and the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the fe&ions or lots of land defcri-
Vd in the annexed' fcliedule, lying in the seven ranges of
townlhips, which were surveyed in pursuance of an ordi
nance of Congrefs,paffed on the twentieth day of May,
ill the year cue thoul'and fevet: hundred and eighty-five,
will be exposed for sale at Public vendue, in the town ol
Pittfburgiiin Pennlylvania, on the twenty-fourth day of
O&obct text, aid thenceforward, from day to day URtil
the firft day of December ensuing, unlel's the said lots shall
be sooner fold, in the manner, and on the terms and con.
ditsons herein after mentioned, to wit:
ill. The said fe&ions or lots shall be fold under the di
reSion ef the Governor or Secretary of the Weftetn Ter
. « vitory, and such person as'the President of the United
States may fpeciallv appoint for that purpose.
2d. The said feflions or lots shall be fold to the higheil
bidder,but no sale can be made for less than two dollars
per acre of ths quantity of land contained in such lot or
je&ion.
3. The htgheft bidder as before mentioned, mull depo
sit at the time ef sale, one twentieth part of the purchase
money, in the hands of such person as the President of the
United States shall appoint to attend the sales for that pur
pose, which will be forfeited, if a moiety of the fumbid,
including the said twentieth part, shall not be paid witnin
thirtydays from the time of sale.
4th. Upon payment ofa moiety ef the purchase money
in t! !'i)ianner before mentioned, the purchaser wi 1 be
entitled to one year s credit for the remaining moiety ;
an i lhall receive from the Governor sr Secretary of the
Western Territory, and the person who shall be appointed
tv the President of the Ui;ste<TSmes, to direct the fales,a
Ci-rtificate defcribing-tt:e lot or faction pui-chafed,and de
"Cli'ing thefuni paid on account, the balance remaining due,
li.c time when such balance becom?j payable, and that
. oi therein mentioned,be forfeited, if the
/ • -
» not paid 5 if the -
be duly discharged J>y i> yi'ig tkefame to the 1 rcafurer oi
the United States, the purchaser or ins assignee or otficr
legal renrefentative, t.all lie entitled to a patent for the
said lands, on his prodscing to the Secretary 0. State a re
ceipt for such balance endorsed upon the certificate. But [
if any purchaser shall make payment ot tne whole of the
purchase money, at the time when the payment of the |
firft moiety is direited to he made, he will he entitled to a
deduflion of ten per ctntu »on the part for which a ere- n()rJl
dit is authorizrd to be given; and his patent shall be 1m- Kcnt ,
mediately issued. , delcri
Given under my Iwnd at Philadelphia, the day and
year above mentioned. ' or din
5 . OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary ps the Treasury fi^ '
lie
Schedule of f; Htons of townjhips, or fraßhna! farts day <
of townlhips, to bi fold at Pitt/burgh, in pursuance unt 1
of the. 6lb fcflion of an ad of Congress, pajed on
the 18lb of May t
~
9 . J? <A ,5
" | I I S.^^2-
g " . sS
ift Ranoe. 6thTownfhip. ith Kangk. Stat<
ill Township. . Bai2 640' each jft Tow;nfhip. inch
28 565 14 6401 17 32° • tilirl
29 256 95 17120640 each 18 270 < 3
30 250 75 25236 640 each 21 850 nc y
34 240 90 BthTownfhip. 22 166 40 ' 3e e
• 35236 640 each 23 427 , ' J. nd
id Township. I7a2o|64oeai.h 24 *- x "P
19 140' 23 |640 27 151 IC
20 170 7© 259301640 each 28330,640 each
21 185 336 640(Men 33 |58
22 230 lothTownfhip. 34336640 each r
25 48? 80 ia2 1640 each jdTownfljip.
2682764© each 5314(640 each 1 126^
28 each 2 44Q . uc
29 551 60 233361640 each 3 44? i,' T end
30 564 i2th,To-\nfhip. 4 456 ma l
640 each 131464 c each 5 464 * tini
4thTownfhip. 17320,640 each 6 472 be 1
19 64 23336(640 each 7 340 cent
« 6 f , 4 th Range. BaM 'W"I siv<
26 38760 lftT (hi i 7 aio 6 4 o;each
• 27 36 < , £ 2333664°^
31332 64oesth 616 <0 Township.
f 33 616 30 do 1 47 °
lf 34 445 20 J 2 478
1 3 { "I 50 3/ai6 ,40 each 3 486
1 2 \-r V idTownfhip. 4 494 of
jthTowiifhip. 5 J0 2 fua ,
• 6 139 20 ls v 6 cio the
3a6 640 each ,
IX 479 30 s .2o ' 7 ai4 640 each _
17 3°4 15 o ,0 17320640 each ' >
e 18 638 i 0 9ai2 each 64 ° 1 ?f l ' /
, S3 450 7J s th fownlh.p- .t£
• 14 6 f 14 'so 1 ; l8 ~ ?
y I 4 i 7 a2oS4oe3ch 2 " 2 ' f
n -1° o_ 1 3 a 3' 1 each 3 !34
> 0 3dTown(hip. 4 ,4 „ 0
Y 36 64 2 13141640 each 5 548
2d Range. 17320 64'oe3ch I s . -
ift Township. 13336 640'e3ch 'JJ* 4 H° ea )
J T.wn«,i: fhT„w,,r,i P . ■>**,
u 94a26 640-ach 43336 640 each 1 5
j* 28 1499 16 7thTownfhip. 2 40
l e 29 1640 132 640(«3ch 3 H ,
r- 3'a33i 6 4cle3ch 537 64o!each 4 0
4thTowrifljip'. 12313 <4o each $ _f -
» 11 *6 40 «
ik 12 397 50 25 640 17320640 each "
13 5 I 50 30a 3 _6 6-40 each 7
15 2 7 5° lownfhip. J l,tJmlhiii
of 16 259x0 1 ai4|6 4 c each
he 17 524 17320 640 each ;«■ T- *
:fk 18 640 2 3 336 64oe3ch ■" y,eaC h
i 9 635 nth Township. 23a3 *l°". ch
he a 0 584 80 iai 4 f64o|each 1 ithT<^nfhip^
h- 21 636 2, 17320:640 each » 14
aia3664c each 7,^^^664oeach *1
ithfownihip. l 3 thTownfhip.' X3^6 4 oeach f
f 5 636 ! 314640 each 1 J
* 637 64c *ac'h 17320640 each ial4 ) 4®^ at - • 1
nd . 64c each 23336 640 each , 640 1
of 27at8 6ac "3ch — 13 a 36 S+oJeach I
|C ' 323,6 64c .ach ' S ftT? AN I E ' , J thT 7» (hl i;- I
ythTownfhip. la i
; 0 2 16401 274 40 17**0 640 eacti
SL BthTownfhip " 8 > 50 *3»3^!«40.e^
135 640esch 23 427 50 7th Rangi^
6 440 24 64 ° . iftTownfhiA
3 z - sim <
- T&it
6 640 t2 IfL 80 4 625
8 IIZl lZ 30 53 5 j6 640 each S a6 64 ° eaeh
11 , AC ,zd Township. 9 296
.13*14 64c each tBo oo 10112 ta ch
!9a20 640 each 14 30
33336 640 ;ach ■] i7aiS64oeach
== 4 445 TA T
3 IIRan«S. 5 456 19 11
ad Town(hip. 6 464 80 ~
h U 640 7 .5. 23a24 64°each
\ th »6 600 8 618 2 -S ' 8c ,
!° r xo 55750 9 ai4 6 4 oeach » 6a « 5 4 0 " ca
21322 640 each 17 axo 640 each! 4 ownihip.
23 609 23 a 36 6 4 oleach "VIHf 0 ?
Jof 25*36 640 each 4th lownfhip. 17a20 040^acn
d - 3d Township. lai 4 640 each 23 \ 3 6 640leaeh
9 188 60 17320 6 4 aea<A 6thToWnfhip.
ill', 10 344 23336 640 eacri
ot xi 267 UthTownfhlp. =7a2o|64®each
of ix 152 i3i 4 64Ck-ach 23a 3*6 4 oeach
Rtil 14 202 50 17320640 each Bthlownlhip.
hall 15 630 123236 64c1-ach 1314 each
:on. l6aiß 640 each: BthTownfhip. 1 7 aj c 64c e3ch
19 217 5° I iai4 640 esch 1 3 a 3 - 6 640 each
di- 20 616 75 1 I7a2c64ceach lot^Townlhip.
rer- 21336 640 each a3a3664ceach iai4 04oeach
lited 4thTownfhip. iothTownlhip. J 7
1 170 iai4 ')4oteach 2 3 a 36 640 r3ch
>, s 544 17320640 -ach ixth 1 ownihip.
s 3 3xo 23336 54ole3chi 1 314 64c,each
stor 4 450 t2thTownlliip. r 7 a xc 64c :ach
1 5 IXC I3i4|64cleach| 23a 6 4ckach
,P 6 649 [7a2c|64c|e3ch' ! 4'h 1 ownfhip.
if ,L e 7 J63 23x36 P4o|e3ch I3i4j64cje3ch
" c I 819 64c each i 4 thl ownfhip. i?axo ; 6 4 o | each
ibid, 10 54C 80 | iH4«4oieach 23 f 3^ 64ci " ch
itnm I 11 5X9 70 j 1732 c 640 eachl l6tli r°wnlhip.
ixai4 64c each) 23a36 640 each 1 al 4 64ojeach
, pney lyaxo 640 ;aehj! , ' 17:120 640 each
Ibe -3 a e*ch[i I 13836 5 4 oie3ch
; note.
'in-cd f IHEI i uant ''' cs - Lands in the f £T eial townlhips he
lUs a of the Lots refervtd by the
d'd'e Lll ted States and also of those formerly fold.—The ag
vduc am r S '\ thC f " eral town ftirs or fra&ior.si
'that' S! l W p . S ' fcave been Pertained bv afltial fur
i/Z . the in particular lots or fedions, have
the been to otheiwifcalcertaiucd than by calculation.
'i 1 ■
. \ .
V
Lands of the iXiired Mates.
Treasury Department,
Jurj'ft 8, 1796. |
Public Notice is hereby given, c
TV pursuance of an aft of Congrefi puffed .n the ißth -
i day of May. 1796, entitled " an ail providing 'for
-he fab of the Lands of the United States, in the territory ;
nouh-wefl of the river Ohio, and above » the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the Quarter Tovv*(hips ol 14nd
d-icribed in the annexed fchedule,dying in the seven rang
es of townships which Were furveye-d in pursuance of an
_ c Poocrr nailed on the twentieth day of
year one thousand fevsn hundred and eighty-
beexpofed for lale at PUBLIC VEUPtt, at
he Merchants' Cdffe'e-lloute in Philadelphia, on the 4th
r llaY of January next, and thenceforward from day to day,
■ un't 1 the tenth day of February enfinng. unless th_ laid
; quarter townihip/fcaU be fooncr fold in the manner and
' S the terr.,s aid conditions hereinafter mentioned :
Ift. The said quarter town-hips shall be so d to the
" hieheft bidder, but nofale can be made for less than t
dinars per acre of the quantity of land contained m such
smarter townfbip. . „ ,
1( j The highefl bidder as before mentioned, mull ae
pofit'a* the time of lale, one twentieth pait of the pur
- Lfe money, in the hands of. the Treasurer of theUnjted
Stages which will be forfeited if a moiety of the furo bid,.,
including the said twentieth part, shall not be paid within!
thirty days from the time of falc. ' ■ \
?d UpSn payment of a moiety of the purch i.e-mo
ney in »he manner befor'.mentioned, the purchaier will
be entitled to one year's credit for the remaining mo(f ;
' and shall receive a certificate deferring the quarter town
- (hip purchased, and declaring the sum paid on account,
the i .lance remaining due, the time when such balance
becomes payable, and that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not then
paid ■ but if the said balance (hall be duly by
paying the fame to the Treasurer of the United State.,
or his afligneeor other legal reprefentanve,
ihall be entitled to a patent for the said land, on his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
y "endorfeduvon the certificate. But it any purchaser {hail
{make payment of the whole of the purchaCe-rooiiey at the
time when the payment of the firft mojtty is direded to
be made, he will be entitled to a deduction of ten per
centum on the part for which a- credit is authorized to be
.riven ; and his patent shall be immediately ifiuad.
° GIVEN under my hand at Philadelphia, the day
and year above-mentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary of the 'Treasury.
SCHEDULE
Of Quarter-Townships to be fold at Philadelphia. in pur
fuanclT of the 6th fediion of an ad of Congrcfs puffed on
the iSth day of May, 179^*
-V" " ~ - T cf >
• - K' M to
' • d. - g
- r 6 •- 15
■ i % * -3 £
r Ph a si
** e* S -f S
O G
- * 4 3 T3 J!
Z Q 5 c 2
n* P" 1
"» .J—'—- — ll'
t,.! -»z Sooth East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480"^""
f_2 j South East 120
No'th East 5120
> ~~~ South Weft 5 120
A NortKWefl " 51 20
20,480
\ 7 South Efcft 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5 120
North Weil 5120
20,480
9 Sduth East j 120
' North Ealt 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
11 South East 5x20 I
North East 5120
V South Weft 5 1 20
I i North Well 5120 •**
1f : 20,480
/j. 4 South Ealt 5120
j North East 5120
South Weft 5120
Tft s North Weft 5120
| 2®, 4 80
I 6 South East 5120
North East 5120
'South Weft 5x20
1 North Well 5110
20,480 i (
8 South East 5120
North East 5120
j South Welti 5120
North Wert 5120
1 20,480
1 10 South East 5120
1 North East 5120
!' Sonth Weft 5 120
J North Weft 5120
h 20,480
1. J 2 South East 5120
h North East! 5120
Jj Sbuth Weft 5120 ,
North Welti 5120
$ I 20,480
5 3 South East' 4602
h North East 4654
3. South Well 5120
h North Welt 5 120
h 19-49 6
h 5 South East 5150
North East 5120
: h South Weft 5I 20
:h North Welt 5120
p. — 20,480
■ h 1 South East J l2O
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
ps be- ■ 20,480
by the 6 9 South East 5 120
ea S- North East 5120
dfurl jSouth Weft 51 20
, have North Welt 5120
I — 20,-480
I • j cL
.2- £-$•
& . <§ K -s
— Q* > U-. O
cC • — > . C L ,
d <£ r® » i
e P-« f
<-«- k , u 'J
• 5 • fc < £ 2
O fe EC
■ z |/ --5-:
C ,re
H
, c ii South Eaftsl2o!
f North East 5120
South Weft 5 120!
t North Weft 5120
i 1 c
i 20,480
d 13 South East 5120!
d North East 5120,
! Sogth Wsli 5120
North Weft 5 120,
h j 20,480
6 4 South East 4630
North East 4620
r " South Wifft 5 120
j North Weft 5120
in | '9>49°
I 6 South East 4730
3- North East 47.15,
k" Souih Weft|5 1 201
; North Wertlc^t 1 j'
ft', ' I—l '9.685
ce 8 South Eaft|5 120,
n- North Eafl|sl2o
en South Weit'sl2o
by North Weft 5120
Z i— *°>+ 80
■o- 10 iSouth Eaftjsi2o
ce, North East 5I 20
ail South Wtftlsi2o
North Well 1 5 r2O
I 20,480
be 12 South East 5 120
* North East 5 120 ,
la T South Weft 5120
* North Weft J1 20
f 20,480
14 South Eafl 5120
North East 5120
ur _ South Weft 5120
on North Well, 5120
——
~ 7 3 South Jlaft 51 20
Noith East JI2O
South Weft 5 1 20
North Weft 5120
20,480
5 Smith East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft j 120 1
-r-4' < 20,480 t
■=- 7 South East 5 120 1
North East 5 120
Sou;h Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
' . 9 South East 5120
L — VI —. 1. > < ..
South Welt'sl2o
North Weft f 120
20,480
11 South East 5 1 20
North East 5 120
j South Weft 5 120
North Well 512 c
f 20,480
13 South East 5 120
( North East 5120
South Weft 5 120 |
North Weft 5120 j |
■ 20,480
15 South East 5 120
North East j 120
South Weft 51201 - 1
,/ ' Nor h Wet: 512 c
1 20,480 1
NOTE.
THE quantities of Lands in the several townihips be
fore mentioned, arc exclusive of the Sechoni refervad by
the United States. The aggregate quantities iH the fevc
.ral townihips, kave been ascertained by a&ual survey but
the quantities In the quarter tewnfhips, have been B»
otherwile ascertained than by calculation.
70,000 Pieces Nankeens,
Of the befi quality and on reajonable terms %
FOR SALE BY
j Philip Nick/in Iff Co.
| .Augufc z6.
i * In the Press,
ArJfpecdily will bejhibli/bed, hy W. Young, Miw
& Son, Corner of Second and Chef nut-Jl* U-y
An Apology for the Bible,
In a series of Utters addressed to Thomas Paine, author
of a book entitled The Age of Reafor., part the fecono,
bailiff an investigation of true and faoulcus tfcco.ogy.
Bv RICHARD WATSON, D. D. t. R. S.
Lord Biihop of Llanda", and Regius Pret'.XoT of Divm
ity in the University of Cambridge.
Aug.a3. |
A Book-Keeper,
OR Clerk's place is wasted by a person properly qua!;- |
fied, and whose character will be found unexception
able. Apply to the Printer.
Aug. 11
C. ABLE M
) '
From 16 to 9 £ inches, for sale by *
Jeremiah Warrfifit
Tnlv ir < No 12 'nc.-fhThird-llreet.
.J ' — - --3
Elephant.
The Public is informed that this animal will leave Phi
ladelphia on the FIRST of September instead of tne
10th, 'till which time the proprietor will continue to ez- . :
hibit him as ufuetl, in High-fircet aear Ter.th-ftreet.
Aug. 12 r
PRINTED BY JOHN F?fN O s ' 1
—No. 119 —
CHESNUT-STiiEET. - f
tpricc Fight Dollar# per 'AsiiMiC}