<Sa«tte «/<fc mrntta States,& Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
W £ J <- TVold Mr. X.
WEDNESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 3, V 7Q 6 - .— — _
Numbex i 2170 —— ~ ~ « I - Tuft Arrived I 1o BE Let,
- # —« || ,
For HAMBURGH,
_ _ the ship
jJQ- 1 O H N.
Robirt Jackson, Mafler, J-ij l "
l. To Tallin fifteen days, —-
AVING two-thirds of her cargo e - V\,
■?=^=irwri»^
apply to the mailer on boa ' Q Donnald fon, TTAS
»&"***& Sen
July it. : he will
For Barbados, Some
The Brigantine Supe<
.feSvr F A ivi E,
Francis Knox, Master, Band
T TAS eood accommodations for pal- Long
j~l fcngers, and is expend to fail on Engl ;
U <•' nrrf For freight of a few barrel, or paffige, Dam
Thurfoaf „ xat Hamilton's wharf, or Sllk]
apply t°capt. Knox, at rJ RNY WHARTON. Thea
J U .Y»3- 6] — Umb
For Freight, *»
THE BRIG
Benjamin Glasier, Majfer, Thel
Now discharging at P. Care's wharf, of
F and wUI immediately take .n Fre.gh. for
I«£WBURY-PORT and BOSTON. d
. To fail in all next week. For treight or passage, apply to
capt. Glafier, on board, or to . Sold ii
Isaac Harvey, jun. Taw™
No. 1 South Water Street. Mond,
J §iw ' n g.» n
7 rao. 17 ' o'<-l
For Sale, Freight, or Chartej,
The Schooncr OUT
tjgL ANGELICA,
/~iNE hundred and twenty tons burthen Agents
\ J fix months old, a {launch, faithfully- Jul
built, fall-failing vefTel, handsomely finifhed off, and well
found in aveiy particular. For terms apply to
B. RHOUt-bj
On board said schooner, lying at Bickley and Bohlen's The <
wharf, the firft above Market-flreet.
WHERE THERE ARE FOR SALE,
A few half-bbls. Prime Mess Beef. \
July 14 §
For Sale, . " l
Or for Charter totbe Weft-Indies,
j» 'J THE SHIP
C E R A S,
Philadelphia Built,
Oak and Red Cedar, burthen about 3.500 bar-
U rels, now discharging at Latimer's wharf, lliisvef- j u
fel is in excellent repair, well fouud-aml will bear a tho- __
rough examination, andasfoon as discharged will be rea
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to
John Vaughan. 1
, , . & attci
I"'y 1% _ ten i
For Sale or Charter,
BOSTON,'
gi^RTHENabout 0000 Bbls. of flour—fhe may be sent B
te sea at a small expence,' her fails and rigging being in delj
very good order—apply to J
James Campbell, or —-
George Latimer.
April 29'
This Day commenced Landing, rr
At N ifflins wharf, the cargo of the Brig Lucy and Sloop 1
St. Jago, from St. Jago de Cuba—confiding of the
"White and Brown Box SUGAR. lea
MOLASSES, of an excellent quality. the
COFFEE. ° n
HIDES and HONEY. Also, in
For Sale or Charter.
A flout, flrong vessel, will carry a- tei
jf\ bout iioo bairels, and may go to fei
_sea with a very small expense. icl
Throve will be fold for calh or approved notes. ur
Samuel Emery, £
No. 6*, south Second-flreet. T
July 17, 79 6 - tltf '— ot
Tuft Arrived, „
In the fhi P Molly, John Frost, Matter, from fc
5000 Bushels Best fine ftoved SAL 1, *
% 6oc Bushels HOU<E CO .L, j
And 118 Crate, of QUEENS WARE affowcl,,
FOR SALE BY s
Philip Nicklin & Co. F
. jf. B. THE S4ID
Ship MOLLY,
for SALE or CHARTER, (he is J
years old, Philadelphia bu.lt, of white
oak, was well salted and carries about 4900 barrels of Flour,
for terms apply as above.
.My 2 3 -— j
Landing
r ro . M e Nincy, William Belcher, mas-
Ui, (torn Bourdeau*, a cargo, consisting of—
- r; : DICE CLARET,
oj 24 bottles each CLARET, t
f 24 -Jo, WHITE WINE,
WEET OIL, and
f RIBBONS,
G ile by
F. Coppinger.
July 23-
Take Notice,
""HAT the Subfefiber intends to maice applica
». tion for the renewal of a Certificate, No. 1609,
for 4000 dollars, dated the 14th December, 1795, bearing
interest at 5 t per cent, from ill January, 1796, in the
name of David Dunderdale & Co. of Leeds, in Yerk
fhirc, merchants. The fame isfappofed to have been 101 l
on its way to New York, under cover to Bleecker &
March, of that place, on the 6th of January lail-
Thomas M'Euen.
Philadelphia, iidjuac, 1796- §w
CABLES, lht ,
From 16 to 9 5 inches, for f4e by fi,bfcri
feremiab IVorder., Forty tl
. c No 12 northTl.lrd-ttreet.
July 12 5
J ' . And, 11
Wm. HOLDERNESSE,
ffo. 76 High Street,
HA<si-creived bv the latcil arrivals from Europe and
the East Indies, a well Mefted assortment of Silk A l.ber
Drapery and Haberdashery Goods; winch R
he will feU, Wholctile and Retail, on the lowest terms , j^ y
AMONGSf WHICH A»E, :
Some fine Indiamuflins embroidered witfißold and fHver
Superfine Book, Jaconet, and <" the" Sn,
Some extra black colored Pcrfians {
Bandano Handkerchiefs IQO (
Long and short Nankeens . Afl
English Mantuas of the firft quality
Damask table linen and napkins, very fine , .
Silk Hosiery, an elegant affortmsnt ° n b<
Thead and cotton do
Umbrellas—green silk, oil'd do. and do cloth
French iambrics, very fine A
Irifli Linens, do. &c. See. J uncl4 3 l __
THE SALE OF j D
The TOWN, and OUT LOTS of the TOWNS I
f - of ERIE, WATERFORD, FRANKLIN
r and WARREN. . L Stat.,
ADVERTISED for faleby the S»ete Agents, m the Phila- c f Ma v ,
delphia Gazette and Universal Daily Advertrfer, to be I ance Q f ,<
Sold in the City of Philadelphia ; will commence atthe City po f e ._T
Tavern or Coffee-Houfe in Second-Street,ln the said city, 00 j all carna
Monday the 25th day of July i»H. at 7 o'clock in the even- kept by ,
ine and be continued ky adjournment from day today,from, outto hi
- , 2 o'clock at noon, until two o'clock, and from J until 9 ,nd ,
o'clock in the evening, until the whole of the said LOTS and Fot and
OUT LOT Sire disposed of. The conditions of f 9 le will be
made known, and the plans «f the said LOTS and OU J
LO IS be (hewn at the time and place of &le. «
By order of William Irvine, Andrew ElltaU and George tVilfim 1
_ A/ , enUt EDWARD FOX, AMimetr. I
y- luly z2. " ' I
ell # -
Sales of India Goods.
ns l The Cargo #f the ship Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal- I
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING or
A Large and general assortment of Bt'ngal and Madras I
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH A*E I
A variety fine worked and plain Mujlins,
Doreas, SsV. Also, [For and
, A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER., I
For Sale by I ' " c (
Willings fc? Francis, | ( ? f tpt
iar- No. 21 Penn Street. Carnag
re f- to § ot Phil;
ho- J!2L 8 —r—^ —— |p—:
«- Public Notice is given, fc c
|""0 the merchants and others concerned in the shipping 1
I at State-lfland, under quarantine, that a Cart will
S attend every mo.ning, sundays excepted, from nine to TO
1_ ten o'clock, at the Health office, No. 32 Walnut-ftfeet, to i UO us I
convey provisions or other Refrefhments to the Hospital, cencc t
' and for the use of the crews. j"
It is expefied that the Bags, Baikets, or other packa s - Ucwce
es with supplies, will be direded with th« name of the vef- q»or»
• fe'l and captain they are intended for, to prevent mistakes W
at delivery. ,
sent By order of the Board of Heahh for the port of Phila
gin delphia, LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH, Chairman
July 13 " § Offi
— ~r~ : Philac
Philadelphia, We ft- Che Her, Strajburgh,
« LancaHei, York and Frederick-town
— STAGES. The,
I, r "T'HE proprietors of the above Stages, return their befl 1
►loop X thanks to their friends and the public in general, lor (Jn<
the encouragement received in this line of bufinefs,andbeg ~ _
leave to inform the public, that they are determined to run UIC
their stages through from Philadelphia to Lancaster in
one day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July instant, Ph
in the following manner, —viz. A Stage will set out on
that day at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the house of
George Weed, Market-street, Philadelphia, and run by
the way of Weftcnefter and Straiburgh, arrive in Lancaf
ry a- ter the fame evening, on Friday morning run to Wright's
go to ferry and exchange pafTcngers with the York and Fredez- Reg
ick-tcvrn stage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat- wolc
1. urday, and on Monday morning following, at 4 o'clock, 1
said stage will set out from the said George Weed's, Phila- —d;
delphia, and arrive at I.aocafter the fame evening, on the :
: j f Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out from the house 1
of Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia —j
the fame evening, and will coramence again on Thursday ,
morning following, and continue every week—The price T
3001, f or cac h passenger from Philadelphia to Lancaster is three p c[
LT dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three aaar- as
' ters, to Frederick town eight dollars, the like sums for g
150 weight baggage, with the usual allowance of 14 lb.
gratis to each passenger, and 5 pence a mi'e for all way
paiTen?;er9. 3° —§4 W
John Reilly,
f George Weed.
:'li TO LET, A
fFiour. A,Large Cellar, r
dtf Under the Meeting-House in Walr.ut-flreet
Enquire at No. 52 Second-ttreet, corner of Chefnut-ttreet. " v
July 30 i± f
;^ as - The ELEPHANT.
THIS surprising animal is arrived in this city «n his way e( j
to Charleston. He is to be seen in High-street be tu
1 ' twecn Tenth and Eleventh flreets, from fix.o'clock in the g e
■» morning to Sunset. (j.
Admittance-—Half a Dollar—Children, a quarter of a' co
Dollar. July 50 §6eotf
A well-finifhecU commodions _
er^ tf HOUSE
j Eor Sale, and immediate poffcjfion given, .
SITUATE on the north fide of Spruce ilreet, Ne. hi, in
between FourtK and Fifth ftreet6. The house, piazza
•>. 1609, hack buildings are three stories in height, andpeife&o
bearing ly well adapted for the accommodation oJ: a large family,
in the as they contain twelve good rooms, exclusive of two ciel
-1 York- ed garrets. In the yard, whichis neatly paved, there are
been loft tw o pumps ; one in a rain cistern, the other of as good
ecker & water as any in the city : The cellars are dry and large.
The terms of payment will be easy : a great part of the
purchase-money in all probability may lay for years on in
terest. Apply at No. 109, next d«or eastward.
$ w July 30 §aw
Just Arrived
In the bSg Betsey, from Jereniie, and for sale by a large
the fobferi ers. _ situated, o
Forty thousand wt. of very prime Cottee New->fcn
in hogflaeads and bags
And, inthe schooner Hope, from New Orleans.
beef I J u 'y *7.
COTTON , I
HIDES and
LOGWOOD.
A liberal credit will be given for Approved Notes. I . Thr
Richard and James Potter.
■ , — ——— I now do) i
Just Arrived tS
In the' Snow Boston, James Kirkpatnck, matter from Li- .
verpool, j Apri i 2
cooo Bnflyels SALT ;
100 Crates QUEENS WARE ; and —^
An Assortment ot SHIP CHANDLERY; ONITEE
FOR. SALE I PENNS
On board, at Pine-flreet wharf.-—-Aprly to JN TH
James Campbell, or •
George Latimer. j
j April 29. j
i DUTY ON CARRIAGES. I
Notice is hereby Given,
I ihe twel
HTHAr agreeably to an aft of Congress of At Umi«d so muc l
I Stat« of America, paired at Jodkial
los Mav, 1706 ; laying duties on Carriages, far the c y 1 a [ ternat(
* ance of ,erlons, and repealing the fo ' m " * J"":/ u P pr)n I Pennfyl
y pufe. —That there shall be levied, collefled P, purpose
« I all carriages for the conveyance of persons, which ttia I be
3- [ kept by or for any perfoo, for his or her own ue, I j t j,
OUUO for the conveying of passenger,, the several du- At t^
9 ties and ntes following, to wit. seventh
,d ! For and ipon every Coach, 15 dols. nine y
be I u?(> n every Chariot, 12 dols. I '
'T I upon every Pott Chariot, doln I " ,
I > upon every Pott Chaise, 12 dols. I e ®
in upon every Phaeton, wfth or without top, 9 dols recti
upon every Coachee, 9 dols. I thc c
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work above, towl
with blinds, glasses or curtains, 9 dols. I fiedl
upon four wheel carriages, having framed polts ai 1 p re f en i
I top» with steel springs, 6 dols. . I grefs a
I upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron aa> in
I springs or jacks,) dolsi I the Ui
upon curricles with tops, 3 dolsrf 1 c if c uit
upon chaises with tops, 3 doll. I en at
ras j upon chairs with tops, 3 dols. I
upon (ulkies with tops, 3 dels. I nd as
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
JS) upon two wheel carriages, with steel or iron springs, Phuad
For and up u » all*other two wheel carriages, » doll. to be
urKin every fohr wheel carriage, having ramed potts rized
and tops, and cetliug upon wooden spars, 2 dols. j them 1
I The Colleflors of the Revenue of the firft furvev o e 1 Se»
DiftriS of Pcnnfylvania, will attend daily, until the 30th V cess 0
of September next, for the purpofeof receivlrlghedutiesor ng o(
ICarriages, at No. »i 7 .Race or ftrcet, la theCuv luit ,
§ ot Philadelphia, at the house of Daniel S. C ' a ' r J D laid c
I Couniv ol Montgomery ; and at the house oIF A r elevei
' be,is, Elq. m the County of Bucks iof which all persons pol turnc
seised of such Carriages are desired to take notice. 1 fame
w"n 1 Notice is also given, witm
•to TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign dittoed spirt- the al
t, to tuous liquors, that hreflce, will be granted 10 t iem 1. " ! ; >l "
ital, ccnce for carryingt.n the business ol retailing of Wmes, in dam.
less quantity, or in less quantities than 30 g? llo "» * j
u c jc c seT Carrying tfn the business of retailing Spirituous li
% inTefaqlvitie. than*2o gallqns, at de fame time and
a ke ß at the fame places, by the officers legally authored U> grant
such licences. WILLIAM NICHOLS, A 1
al ' a " InT'peflor of thc Revenue of the firft survey
"• of *he dillrift of Pennfjlvania. D(
5 Office of Infpeftion,at, ) S3 0 mcE|
Philadelphia, aitt July, 1796 S
f ' CJ NOT ICE. I
There will be lold on Thursday the 4th of August, at P roc
. the Merchants' coffee house, in Second street, rcco
, for One thousand shares of the stock of ™ }
S the North America Land Company, deip
er in If not previously disposed of. pro(
ftant, Philadelphia, aothjuly. ts
1 tow
Jt on T~T" Cou
fe of TAKE NOTICE, ber
incaf- T'HAT application will be made forth* renewal of tak<
i g ht's I the following certificates, issued by Joseph Noiirfe,
•edej- Register of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Oril
Sat- wold, Esq. of Norwich, Connea.cut—
clock, 1 certificate, fix percent domestic flock, 0.13,907
Phila- —dated the iythDecember, 1795> bearing interelt trom I
g. on the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65-100 dol
houfe 1 ditto* thre« per cent, domestic stock, IN o. 10,002 j
elphia —dated December i 6, 1795> bearing interest from the I
irfday £ r ft day of January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dollars. I
: P rice 1 ditto, deferred stock, No. 9,166— dated the 17th
.three December, 1795, bearing interest from the lirlt Jauu- I
ary, 1801, for 798 83-100 dollars.
Ms ( ° T Sahl certificates ave supposed to have been loft or
f 4 lb ' fto'an in this eitv some time in December or January r
1 way last ' *
" JOSEPH THOMAS, - tw
No. 59, North Front-street. a
Philadelphia, July M» 179 6 - d6w ' | to '
A Country Seat to be fold
ABOUT seven acre* and a half of land near the tjiree I
mile (lone on the road leading to Gray's gardens and I
extending withagentle declivity fromthe said road to the 1
.street river Schuylkill—on which are crested, a convenient
frame house suitable for a tenant, a frarne ham and fUble, j
— a large Brick House forty-eight feet front, two stories I
high, a very elegant piazza fronting the river, the whole I
breadth of the house fupportcd with turned pillars, floor- I
his way C( j w j t jj ce dar plank, commanding an extensive and pic- 1
reet he turefque view of the Middle Bridge, Gray's Gardens, the I
i in the Seat „f Wm. Hamilton, Esq. the Turnpike Road and I
Canal. The improvements are all new—and the ground j
ter of a' conveniently divided and inclosed by new cedar I
•6eotf For terms apply at No. 151 Market-flreet.
ions _>!!! — h
FOR SALE,
liven WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 years old, c
'in pipes and liogfheads j 1
Na. 111, Claret, genuine old, in cases j
~ P'J z^ a Q; n ; n pipes, ffom Holland • 1 1
Earthen Ware, in crate,
two C.el Salt; in hogsheads |
there are Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
J, cog,. Ear Lead, Red and white dry lead
nd laro-e. Steel, German and Russia, in barrels
rt of the Anchors, cables, junk, bunting, tarpolin canvas, I
irs 011 in- -Tin ulates—An invoice Stationary, by I
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
§lw July 19.
I
• To be Let,
A large convenient three {lory Brick House, pleifantY
situated, on the weft fide of Second-Street, opposite to the
Ncw-Mr.rket; now 111 the occupation of Henry Clyr.'.ar
Apply to
William Bingbam.
July »?•- ' 6t "
I
For Sale, " ;
x Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
t l\ street, between Front and Second flreets, in which
Messrs. Jahies Calbraith Ac Co. have for man) years (and
I now Jo) Carried on business.
j Poffeflion will be given in one month, or sooner.
I « For ternas apj»l)'to WILI-lAM BELL, or
H'EC'IVJR CALBRAITH.
April al. _ ■ 5
UNITED ST AXES, 7 {T
Pennsvlvania District, J *
IN THE NAME AND BY THE AUTHORITY
OF THE UNITED STATES,
By IV ILL IA M NICHOLS,
Marshal of the Pennsylvania Diftricft, —
" A PROCLAMATION.
1 \\ /"HEREAS tke Congress of the United States, at
I W the firft session of the fourtfe Congress, to wit, on
I ihe twelfth day of May Uft past, passed an to repeal
; d 1 muc h of an ail, intituled "an ail to eftabhfh tha
Judicial Courts of the United States", as direxjts that the
T I alternate feflions of the Circuit Court for the DiftriS of
r I Pennsylvania, shall be lioldenat Yorktown ; oiher
?" I purposes, in the follav ing words, to wit. t ■
I e ( I Fourth Congress of the United States :
u. I At the firft session, begun and held at the city of Phila
' I delphia, in the State of Penufjlvaaia. on Monday, the
I seventh of. December, one thousand seven hundred and
I nine-y-five.
I An AS to repeal fomucb of an a&, intituled " an afl t«
ettablifh the judicial courts of thc United States ,asdi
refH that alternate feflions of the said circuit court for
1 thediftriil of Pennsylvania shall be holden at York- v
ve > I town ; and for other pur; ofes.
I I. BE it enabled by the Senate and House as Re
ind I prefentatives of the of America, in Con
! grefs assembled, That so much of ths filth fed ion of the
ron ad, intituled "an act to eflablifh the judicial court? of
the United States", asdiredsthat alternate sessions of the
I circuit court for the diflrid of Pennsylvania shall be hold-
I en at Yorktown, be, Slid the fame is hereby repealed;
I and that all the sessions ot the said circuit court lhall, from
I and after the palling of this adl, be holden at the city of
ngs, 1 Philadelphia, excepting only, when at any leflion qf the
I said court, the judges thereof shall direct the next feflion
I to be holden at Yorktown , which they are hereffy autho«
lotts I rized and empowered y> do, whenever it shall appear t»
lols. I them to beneceffary.
thc I Sefl. 11. And be it further ena&ed\ That all such pro
day I ce s s 0 f the said court, as may have issued before the pafs
s on I n g 0 £ an( i all recognizances returnable, and all
Cuv I luits and other proceedings that Were continued to the
'j. h< * said circuit court for the diilriil of Pennsylvania, on the
?' 1 eleventh of October next, in Yorktown, shall now be re-
P ° turned, and hi Id continued, to the fame court, on the
1 fame day, at Philadelphia. And to the end that suitors,
I witnesses, and all others concerned, may have noti.e of
'pin- I the alteration hereby made, the Marshal of the.said dif
cli trid is hereby required tsmakc the fame known, by pre
in 1 elamation, ou or before the firft day of August next,
one Jonathan Davton,
us li- Speaker of the House of F eprefentativej.
= and SAMUEL LIVfRMORE,
g t4llt President of the Senate, pro tempore. -
Approved, May the twelfth, 1796,
George Washjngton,
urve y President of the United States.
Deposited among the Roljs, in the Office of the Depart
ment of State,
Timothy Pickering,
Secretary of State.
I DO HEREBY MAKE KNDWN that all such
ft, at process of the fair} court as has, or may be issued, and all
recognizances returnable at Yoritotm aforefaid, on the tie.
! f ventb day of Offoier next, returned to the Circuit o£
' the United States, at the City Hall, in the city of Phila
my. delphia, on Tuesday, the eleventh day of Odoher next, it
eleven o'clock in the forenoon, And that all fnitsand other
proceedings that wt re c jntinued to the said court at York
town, will be held find continued at the said Circuit
Court, at Philadelphia, on the fame Ele .entb day of Odo
be r next, of which all persons concerned are desired to
ival of take notice, and give their attendance thereat. •
ourfe, GIVEN under my hand, at my office, in the District
r Grif of Pennsylvania, the twenty-Seventh day of July,
in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hun
■3,9o7 I dred and ninety-fix, and of our Independence the.
I from I twenty-firft.
,0 dol- WILLIAM NICHOLS,
i 0,68» j Marjhal.
am the .j §JW
ars. I
e 17th j J
Jauu " Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
loft or 1 N0 . I.
anua :y -T"r THERE AS the State of Maryland has authorised
I V » the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
I two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
I a Canal through the City of Walhington, from the Pa;
i6w. I tomacto theEattern Branch Haruour.
. 1 , j The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Olfl I Viz I Prize of %opoo dollars, 20,000
lie tjiree I I ditto 10,000 10,000
lens and I 7UH drawn 7 3poo 35,000
d to the Tickets, each j
ivenient j 6 ditto i,oop 6,000
d liable, I? dltto *°° *> 000 '
0 stories d: "° 100 4,000
e whole 55 ditto jo a,7JO
- floor- I 575° ltto 12 69,005
a ' nd p - c _ J To be raised for thc Canal, 26,250
dens, the | ~
oad and 585° Prizes, . *7Sfioo
: ground 11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.]
w ' v ° 1 17500 Tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 175,000
*7t I The Commissioners have taken the Securities r»
I__ I quired by the aforefaid ad for the pundual payment as
' I the prizes. •
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
rears old, delay, as soon as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
| notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after th«
1 drawing is finifhed, sKill be confidervd as relinquilhed for
1 tha benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly.
(Signedj NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL,«/D.
| LEWIS DEBLOIS,
j GEORGE WALKER,
n canvas, 1 Wm. M. DUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
,AND. j JAMES BARRY.
§ I City of Waftiingtoß, Feb. 11. f, 111 ,
Philadelphia,
WEDNESDAY FV'NING, Accost 3. -
IMPORTANT. PLEASING. AU- !
THENTIC.
THE WESTERN POSTS TAKEN
POSSISSItfK OF. (
Extrtft of a letter ftom Capt. Jame» Bruff to the '
, Secretary of War, dated Fort Ofwego or On- <
tario, July 15, 1796.
" 1 have the pleasure to announce that the Bri ]
llfh commandant of Fort Ontario wrote to me on '
the 13th mftant that the king's (lores were em- |
barked and sent off j that he wished to get away with ,
the detachment next morning at day light, and 1
requeued roe to fend an officer that day as early as '
yoffible.
"In conference of this information and re- '
quest, I inflantly dispatched an officer; and next ,
'day (beiug the 14th) followed with the troops i
and two field piece*. On my arrival found the
British garrison gone and Lieut. Elmer in poffefii
on of the fort. Immediately I landed the detaeh- '
meut ar.d artillery and marclved in, the music play j
ing the President's march ; and under a federal sa
lute, displayed the flag of the United States from
the citadel.
u With pleasure I mention that the British eom
mandafft l«ft the barracks and every other building
clean, and in the b'efl order they would admit of '• ■
and we feel oorfelve* much indebted to Capt. Clark 1
„*nd Lieut. Fothergill, for the excellent order in J
which they left their gardens filled with vegetables ,
and fruit." <
What think ye of the Treaty now ? 1
Had ten thousand men been employed in besieg
ing the Western Porta—had one half of them fal
len by firknefs and the lword, during the Siese—
had one half he r *fidue beei facrificed in carrying I
the work* by storm. The acquisition would have
excited univerfnl joy and triumph throughout the
United States. Bonfires, &c. &c. &c. would
have been exhibited, and the fad tale of Slaughtered
thousand* would have been drowned in fliouts of *
applause to the surviving victors. The Pofl* are r
taken, and not one drop of blood shed ! Eternal '
praise* to the God of Peace and Negociation,* '
tha> ks to h : * servants, the President, Vice Presi
dent, Messrs. Jay, Hamilton, Knox, Wolcot and .
Pickering—thanks to the majority in both houses
of Congrefß—and let all the people fay
AMEN.
* Come now and let os reason together faith the Lord. '
Kaiah. - "i
Lord Dorchester, governor of Canada, has em- '
barked for Europe, in consequence of which the '
government devolves on Lieutenant Governor Pref- j
Co*t, who ha* issued a proclamation, giving notice -
of the fame. The citizens of Quebec and Montreal
addressed fcord Dorchester before his departure, in
a stile of affection and refpeft.
When parties exist, as they ever will in 'a free
country, it becomes important to uttderftand their 1
true eharafter and real'objefts. The anarchists,
anti-fedeialiftt, Jaeobins, and democrats of our
country (/or all these najres hate been deemed ap- ]
plicable) fay and swear in there modest way, that 1
; they alone are friend* of liberty. They are the ex
cluftve patriate, the friends of French liberty, and
of course the friends of American liberty. Fads,
ftuhhorn facts, destroy the pretty web of felf praise.
The clubbift*. the Jacobins, the democrat* (call
them as you please) for they arc all scurvy names,
have been the great enemies of French liberty. If
liberty (hould finally fail in that country it will be
owing to these vermin. In like manner if liberty,
fhoultl die a sudden and violent death in the United
State*, it is these affaflins, these blood-drinker* who
will destroy it. In this country, at in France, the
genuine friend* of liberty, the leal patriot* are the
Jriends of Government /
Mz. Fenns,
THE H-iufeof Rerefentatives (that is the then
maj rity) would not vote that their confidenee in
the President was undiminished, because his con
dud refpefting the British Treaty had in fact di
minished it. Party at that day seemed to be puffed
up with the felf importance of the task of align
ing to the President, the exact measure of confi
de! ce he was believed to have left. A member from
Virginia, and one from New York, avpwed their
Tefpeft for him (and in the imaginary fullnefs of
their power it was a kind thing in those rwTuous
gentlemen to profefs any) but they said it was /(ft
than formerly. How this world must have been
tuta'd topfy survey beforefich men (but 1 leave it
to their intimate! to draw their characters) could
find occasion \o give, or take away the praise of
Walhington 1
Whether the people place an undimini/heJ fconfi
dence in the men who pretended to have, some half,
f me two thirds, and other* only a tenth of their
fiiimrr confidence in the President, the next elec
tion will shew. Unlcf6 the people change in a man
ner 'hat their chatafter for iteadinefs and wisdom
beyond every other renders impoflible, the innova
tors on the confti tition, the flauderers of virtue, the
men who have been in the habit of breaking their
own private faith and who naturally trifled with that
of the nation, will be flighted and rejected. When
the praflire of the virtues of private jife shall have
recovered or created confidence in thcmfelvci, they
may begin again, and with rather more propriety,
to talk of its being withdrawn from the P'cfident.
If the people aft as the wife & faithful keepers
of their own liberties, they will; of neseflity, they
I
« V — v
I muj, refufe their fuffragcs to those whc would hate
leveled the conilitutian with the groHrr. May the
people (hew themselves worthy of this high func- 1
lion, by which they will (hew that theyare free and
deleive to be so. So prays every
SON OF L'BEHTY.
PATRIOTISM.
H»w different is the language of ihegenoine Pa
fViot to the ranting declamation of ambitious fee'k
era after popularity, and canting d<.ftag>girrs, who
\ conceal uiider the mailt of patriotism tie mo# ini
' quitous intentions !
How oppofltcate the feelings of m//, whom the
love of counrry infpire»to ardent cxertims, and the '
lbve of liberty to personal fervicee in htr canfe, to
i thofe-ofthe little infects, who confounded by the
meridian blaze of Freedom Snd Amtrics!s profpe-
Tity, are continually aflailing the ear with&uzzings,
1 which, thoug'.i disagreeable to the feeling*, art ne- 1
I verthelefs harmless and contemptible. As proof h
t point, let the following extract from the " Confp't- '
racy of Kings," by that indefatigable patp'or, Mr. !
Barltw, be put in contrail with the multifariuus
effufionsof the pretended patrioti of our country, '
which procecd from the Aurora to the Arjus, from
" the Argus to thz-Chronicle and from the Chronicle '
ito oblivion. (Col. Cent.J
Tie Patriot muse, is thus invoked by this Republican
Poet .—
- ' AND deign', for once, to"turn a transient eye
To that wide world thatJkirts the vreftern sky, '
Hail the mild morning, where the dawn began, t
The full fruition of the hopes of Man ; i
Where sage experience seals the sacred cause ; t
1 And that rare union, Liberty and Laws,
Speaks to the reas'ning race—to fru'.dem rife,
Like them be equal, and like them he wife;" (
ORIGINAL ANECDOTE <
NOT lonu finoe, a county clergyman, being on £
a visit at Boston, w»s, by a polite and generous {
brother yuwnman, invited to officiate in the facted
functions of his offi. e.—His dif-ourfe wasbrit poor- '
ly rrlifhed by the congregation, being- in the ter- 1
1 rlfic stile. Their paltor observing their chagrin and c
difapprobarion of the feoffments of his clerical J
friend, in a whifpi-t requested leave to" read the c
hymn, and accordingly gave out the followinj— c
" Not to the terrors of the Lord, f
Th« tempest, fire and smoke ; t
Not to the thunder of that word j
Which God on Sinai spoke : ,
But v e are comc to Scon's hill,
The city of our God, r
words declare his wifj, c
And spread his love abroad," See. t
On their returp fronj church, the visiting clet- 1
• gyman observed to bia friend, that the hymn hal '
rained his discourse ; the other replied, that he ha? *
no intention of injuring his sermon, he only meat* r
to take off the—WIRE EDGE 1 ! 1 j
The TWO SINGERS.
TWO fingers were oftla contention quite warm, c
Which most, when they tuft'd up" their windpipes, j
could charm: {
Toamafterof music they jointly applied,
This often-contefted affair to decide.
They quaver'd; they fhak'd; and such graces were '
shown, «
That each took for granted the prize was his own. ' j
" Indeed, my good friend, cries the judge to the firft, i
Of all earthly fingers, I think you're the wtrft: ,
But as for you, friend (turning round to the other)
Teu can't jing at all—so mud yield to your brother."
From the American Daily Advertiser.
MESSRS. CLAY POOLE,
Be pleated to give the following a place in your
, paper, for the information of the public.
AS the pra&ice of purchasing Accommodation
• Notes, at a price below the sum fpecified in the
note* is now become so common in this city, ruin
- ous in its ctjnfequences, not only to the credit, of
I the fair trader, but to the property of many, dri
, ven from necejftty to the clutches of the unfeeling
. usurer, 1 fend you as a caution to this description
1 of purchafcrs, and to serve likewise as an intimatf.
, on of the'proper legal mode of redtefs to others,
f whose paper and credit are artfully depreciated by
t them to the great injury of many ufeful and induf
-- triou3 citizens, the following cafe, determined
1 in the Couit of King's Bench, before Lord Keny.
3 on, February ift, 1795, antl reported in
c Cases at Nisi Prius, Hilary Term, 35 George Illd.
c Wiffem against Roberts.
" This was an action of affumpfit against the
" defendant, as the Drawer of a Bill of Ex
" change.—
1 Plea of the general Iffiie.
i» " The bill was drawn by one Roberts in favor
- " of Thomas Ould or order, on Thomas Yates,
-«' fo,/\ 86. dated Ift November, 1793, payable
J " three months after date. Yates accepted it,
1- " but did not pay it, and the defendant was there,
i- « fore sued as drawer, on his default.
a " The defence on the merits was, that the
r »«• plaintiff, the indorsee, knew that the 1 .ill was
f " an accommodation one, between Yates and the
I " defendant, and besides, had not paid the value
r s " for it. The fiift witnefscalled for the plaintiff,
II « on his cross examination proved, that the bill was
t " really an accommodation bill, and that it was
d «' known by the plaintiff to be so, and that he in
if " fad had given for i( but 29.
" Lord Kenyan said, that where a hill of Ex
- " change, is given for money really due, from the
f, " drawee to the drawer, or is drawn in the regular
r " courle of bufuiefs, in such cafe, the indorsee)
■- " though he has not given to the indorfer the.full
1- " amount of th« bill, yet he may recover the whole,
n " and be the holder of the overplus above the sum
1- " he has really pai"B, to the use of the but
e " where the bill is an accommodation one, and
r <• that known to the indorsee, and he pays but part
it " of the amount, in such cafe, he can only recover
n ■< the sum he has actually paid for the bill ; and if
e " the plaintiff in this cafe was entitled to recover,
y " he could only do it to the amount of the
', " sum he really 1 paid for it."
Th<? detctmination of the Court of K'pg'i
■s Bench in this cafe, opplies equally to the «fe of
y proroiffory notes —S« that if A tbe drawer, or
• his broker by his dire&ions. Wis such sccommoda
, tion notes, for less value, than the nwrninal value
. th«reofj*then B the purcbafer in an adlion agai*fl
j -A the drawer shall never recover a greater sum than
he paid for the note.—So also if A the drawer ol
a note for instance of £. 4 C » should even have re
ceived a full fotisfiftion for it, and B the firft pur
chaser should indorse the note, and afterwards fell it
to C tor a less sum, for instance for £. 20. than
the oiiginal amount of the note C the second put
chafer shall recovei from A the drawer the whole
amount the note, viz. £. 40. but shall be liabls
to pay Bthefirft indorfer £. 10 thereof, and fhal!
only retain for his use the sum he originally paid
for the note.
From the Columbian Museum.
MeJJieurs Powers & Seymour, 1
BY the help of your neat type, let me requefl 1
the citizens of Savannah to look about them. 1
I have often heard old people speak of a book j
whieh had been much read in the days of our ,
grand fathers. The volume is almost ohffolete now
—but several of its ftpries have been taken out,
and by the aid of tradition, kept alive to this day.
Among these stories, there was one often told
us when w« were children, conceraing a city of
very antient times, which had been funk in the
dead sea, for the wickedness of its inhabitants.
There it one part of this story, which I believe J
' shall never forget, " That before those bad nien ;j
had been finally abandoned to dcftr(Rftion, G'o<r
Almighty had proposed to spare the whole of
them, on condition they produce ten
righteous perfoßS, belonging to the city. That
not being able to raise that numbed thef were
consigned to sudden perdition, by" a fearful earth
quake ; and not a foul but three were exempt from
the general ruin. One man and h's two daugh
ters were wife enough to believe what was threat
! ened—took warning in time, and made their
; escape." °
| The people of modern cities <4hould loot about j,
. them—they k*<ow not the dajyior tfoe hoor, 'fchen
the ground beneath torn afWider by j
convulsions; the flreet whffdfTlrey live turned to q
a noiforae lake, or a hideous cavern 1 or the whole n
city metamorphosed into a dreads"l sea, like that p
of Sodom and Gomorrah. For those bad men the
story speaks of, were not the only wretches whom F
the pit has swallowed up alive. Many other
have met the fame catastrophe, in much later times. e
Read the Portuguese annals of '55, and lean) • the t
melancholy tale of Lisbon. Peruse the Spanish
chronicles of '72, and note the subversion of'Gua- «
timala ; then turn to the memorable events of the c
two Sicilies in '83, and you will find a tragical ac
count indeed, of no less than 80 or 100 tflwns aqd *
villages, with 40,000 inhabitants, all loft ,
redemption, by an earthquake so powerful and ex- j
tensive, as to throw the whole province of Cala- r
bria under the ocean. i:
However (earthquakes and tornadoes out of the 1
qiieftion) there are many other means, by which
: jull heaven feourges unhallowed cities. Uncon- r
querable fires melt dpwn their buildings, and give [
wings to their riches to fly away. A subtile pe r
t Atlencc, sweeps off its hundreds and its thousands, c
as with the besom of deftrufUon. These sublime
judgments of heaven have long been the terror of
, the old world. They have at length found their
way to the new. Let all the people of the new f
, world look about them—hold themselves in readiness f
for these great scenes ef public dismay — for a time f
when an earthquake may furprifr them—for a time f
when their cities or houses may be enveloped with 1
devouring flames over their heads, or when a letht- <
serous fever may carry off scores of their fellow- 1
r citizens in a day. c
People of the southern cit ict/ooi Jharp about you, f
t Plagues, Fires, and commotions of the globe, are 1
c not the only disasters which may befal you. Infur- \
. reflions are not impraflicable ; majfacres are not im. \
f pofiible ; robberies are not uncommon. What mild- <
. er than robberies, can be the consequence of that
r remarkable idleness, we discover every where around [
i Idleness, the parent of incalculable mifchief, 1
. indulges nfelf openly without the least reserve—l- t
, dlenefs ever prognosticates a rapid lace to ruin. (
f A city of righteous men has nothing to fear : c
. hut where is such a city ,0 he found ? Even a few, t
i it it wete but ten persons of that chara<3cr, might t
. enfurc us protection : But are we certain we hold £
s in every city that small number?
. Then ye reverend clergy, spare no pain* to make
us nghteous.-Ye elders „f ,hc city, « X ert your
e best endeavors lo makf us hone)}( , nd ' ug .
. so. Nightly guards, be vigilant at your poßs, to t
keep us in fafety.-Officers of health, do your ut- .
most to hold the peftitence at bay—Officers of 1 !
r c ean 11 t s, py well the means in your power, from 1
, the cast to the welt of the city, that we may have <
f wholesome (Ireets , 0 walk in, and a pure atmof- ,
, phere to Drealhe.
Citizens all, be persuaded to discharge with 1
prompt,iude, your boun.'en duties, in your re- !
e fpedtive departments. /"Wrx, attend closely "to ,
s y^TMcres.—Merchant, t import all the conveniences i
e of hfe before you bri„g us any luxuries. -Mecha- ,
e mcs, Jhops t and your Jhops will keep
, you. Lamblers and Swindlers, quit the city with- 1
6 X Ume J, M ° n °t° l '™ r < and Speculators,
sake yourselves off 1 Idlers and Saunterers of everv •
n defer,pt.on, be gone from us • Leave the honeli i
men, and tki mdufttious to themselves The
- have not fen, for you yet, and you should keep ot't I
e Ol the way till you are called for. Shift your bead
r quarters immediately I find fomr r, pu.able bi,f, ne f 3
j, g employ you, or the fate of the idle, drunken.
TJ Tbe y ° UrS ' who iut o«„ -
; EutVt A 7 * 3 P arOX y sm of infanitv.
soon y °f-' d °T mean,ore fr ,m > no matter how 1
ifrcln' ,OW n d r hiS CXample - com 1
r Cuiaens of. Savannah, look about you—so fays
1 THE BRAMIN.
t --
From a. London Magazine
W 0 O D L N ACTORS.
i- by way of i'n:c«*cde, a battle between "Tom Paine
e and the Devil 1" It is ur.neccflary to fay that poor
[I Tom very soon fell into the hands of his sooty Ma
il jelly; >vhen the latter, aflilted by the reft 0 f |,is
i( wooden compeers, fling Godfavc the King over
- Tom's body : after which the biacl gentleman made
- his bow, and retired with his brother attars vocil?-
t rating Church and King !
EXTRACT.
c America, by her zeal and firmnefs in the catife as
s liberty ;by the wisdom ai d liberality of her confti.
I! tution ; by her improvemer. in arts, manufactures,
] aflcl agriculture ; by the geneial diffufion i f know
ledge; by the extension of her commerce, and t! c
ineiaafe of her wealth ; by the industry, enterprise
and virtue of her citizens, has become the envy and
admiration of the world. Shall the glory be tar.
I nifhed by the malevolence and rage of party spirit ?
Or by the pride of those Jwhether demoerats, or
ariftocrau it is indifferent) who wish to rife at their
f country's exp; life ?
, THIS DAY'S MAILSL
I 1 NEW-YORK, Augult 2.
Latest Foreign Intelligence.
"Friday evenitig arrived at this port, the ftiip Fair
American, Captain Gladd, ift 41 days from
Nant*.—His. Editor has been favoured with a
"■ regular file of Paris papers from May 20, to
June 12. (which is several days later than the
;,cc«unts by the Brifeit) —Exfradts follow :
Translated for the Netu-Tork Gazette.
... PARIS.
From the Paris paper entitled "The Friend of Justice
and Truth."
dated the id June, 1796.
Ejttradl of a letter from Infpruck (in Germany)
k ' May.
Wtliin a few weeks past the Tirol has been the route
of the troops from Germany and Auflria, fcr the re
inforcement of tjje army in Italy ; they were much a
stonished to meet there the fad remains of that army,
with -whom they expedted ttt (hare the-ir laurels, total.
ly,difperfed, without any order: these movementi, e
qially unexpected as extraordinary, have created a
mod vivid sensation in the minds of the inhabitants, a
part of whom did not credit the defeat of Beaulieu.
recruiting for men to dra* the field
pieces, is continued with the fame spirit ■ each man
receives from 50 to 60 florins (German ). They are
' aboutjentrufting them with murdering air-guns, invent
ed in the reign of Jo eph 11. which he made use of with
the greateit success, in the last war against the Turks.
This carabine, lighter and smaller than tfie common
ones, iscompofedof two barrels, the smallest of which
contains aj balls ; and by a flight movement, they pass
from one to the other, into a receptacle made for them;
which ball, by lowering the firelock, goes off with
the fame rapidity and carries further than if fired with
powder, without the leaf! noise, and that as often as a
hundred times alternately, during the space of g or 19
minutes ; after which, the reservoir being exhausted,
it requires to pump in trelh air, which takes up at moll
16 minutes.
Count Louis Stahremberg, Minister from his Impe
rial majesty, at the court of St.JamesY, prefenred the
prince of Wales with one of those carabines, of the
benefit of which the English may avail themselves, and
make use of them in the Indies well as atfea; the
damp weather never putting them out of order.
OSSENBACH, May 16.
We wait an opening close to the country ; it il
said that the Count de Colloredo, on his return
flom Vienna on the 10th inft. has brought dispatch
es of aa important nature, which may occasion a
great alteration in the political fylltm of affairs.
After his arrival at Mayence, the Arch Duke
Charles repaired to Manheim, to hold a conference
with the Marshal de Wurmfer. Belidcs which,
orders were immediately given to form Abatis's
from Donn»rfourj>, by Hochfpeyer, as far as Edig
hoveu. The Chancery at War, the CommifTary
Department, the Magazines and Troops, which
were found in the Cirele of Franconia, have ail re
ceived orders to join the army.
On the 9th, ticar2oo troops from the frontiers
palled to Afchaflenbourg. These troops having
been made prisoners of war by the French, remain
ed in th* diltridt of Franconia, expedting they might
serve again ; the time fixed upon in the capitulati
on, beirg expired, they are now going to rejoin
, the army. Various ideas are conjedtured—lt is
thought the Imperial troops will abandon the siege,
and retire to the Mountains near Neuwied. „
Sitting of the I Oth of June.
Meflages from l the diredtory were read ; the firft
1 announced that the King of Sardinia had notified
1 the Treaty concluded with the French Republic ;
• ' the second gave details of a frelh vidtory by the
left wing of the army of the Sambre and the
1 Meufe, cm the rig'it batiks of the Rhine. The
: enemy after the two former defeats, were entrench- .
■ ed at Altenkirken. Kleber attacked them, and
gained a brilliant vidtory ; 3000 Aullriansare made
1 prifouers, 4 standards, and very considerable maga
■ zines of> provisions and forage have been taken frota
) the enemy. The fame mcflage reports that Buon
r aparte, at the head «f the army of Italy, continu
■ ed the career of his triumphs.
> On the Bth of May, the French army was se
parated from the enemy by the River Mi.eio. The
, grenadiers eroded that nver up to theii recks in
water ; this adtion made the enemy give way ; the
headquarters of Beaulieu was carried, fort reft
and his magazines are in our hands ■, hi troops of
the Republic, a/ter having made 500 piifoneM, en- «
1 tered Verona.
3 ' June 11.
1 The executive Diredtory received letters from
1 the in Chief, Jourdan, at half part 9
. yefteiday evening. They contain the news of a
' signal vidlory obtained by the army commanded
by the General of Division* Kleber, 4th June, at
i Altcnkiiken, on the right bank' of the Rhine ;
3000 prisoners, 4 colours, 12 cannon, a number of
ammunition waggons and (tores, are the fiuits of
. this vidtory.
Another Courier arrived this morning frrim the
army in Italy, announces, that Duonsparte had at.
tacked the army of Beaulieu entrenched under
Mantua ;he took his head quarters, cannon,
■' zines, and a great number*, of prisoners. Bia^-s' l
» ''completely routed. (This news is official.) >
• 1 *COUNCIL of ANCIENTS. J'
SUtiftTof the 2'ijl _
'IV Council approves the resolution of the Conn- many
' ;i ,jf Plve Hundred " That jhe army of the Sam- ting
wlfd ha. not ceased to deserve *ell of it. =
C ° Dcto'rcy flffures the Council that the anarch*. laugh
who had fixed on this day to attempt ajam th y
dedtuftive plan, have been differed, and prevent g
ed from putting their infernal schemes into execu-
tian by Government. natur
COUNICL of fTvEHUNDRED. edfo
2jd Brarial. .
On .he quell ion : "r* M the Denunciation a- furm
„s„ft Drouet be admitted ?" Of 386 members, d.*
voted in the affirmative, and 35 in the nega
UTf * PARIS, June IJ. ral w
ARMY or the SAMBRE and 'he MEUSE. you
Battle on the Rhine. have
Ext raft of a letter from general Jourdan to the hinte
Executive Directory. loll*
"Head Quarters. Raunem, (..
29th Prarial, (June 7 )
«. J have the honor of adireffin* a copy of G- Buor,
neral Kleber's report tofoou. You will learn w.h
pleasure that .his General ha. cont.nned hn march
along .he right bank of the Rhine, and that the
jiemy has been completely defeated a. Ahe■ .k.rkcn, <
o. the 16th in ft» (June 4.) 3 «°° 4 J
flandards, .2 pieces of cannon, feve-al waggon publ
quantities of warlike (lores, and equipages, are T
the fiuit. of this viaory. TiOTTRDAN " T}!'
(Signed.) |9Y RD J
OFFICIAL PAPERS. well
A R Mr OF JTALT. this
Crofting of the Minico-Battlt »f Borghetto—Cap- C
'tureofthe Fortn/s of Pefchiera and of the Ma- rona
,wo
4th year (June I.)
Ci.izen Di^eaors.
After the battle of Lody, Beauheo crossed the
Oglin and the Mincio: He inclined hi. rijtht to
the Lake of Garda ; h ; s left on Mantua, and erect I
ed batteries on all the angle. of this fcne, in order rop,
to defend the passage of the Mimco. Au
Head qu rter* were eftabbfh>d on the 9th a mot
Brescia. I ordered the general of division, K.l- just,
niaine, to march with..,500 eawlry, and 6i bat- rem
talions of prtnaiiers to Defmzanno, and General the
Rufea with a half brigade of I ght infantry to n to
Lalo. My intention was to ."dnce Beaulieu o rem
believe that I wanted to turn hi* flank by the up- tW c
perp , rt c f the lake to cut off the °f the and
Tvrol on the f.de of Riva. I kept all the d.vif.ons p U
tof the army in,the rear, infomuch-ihaf my right, he
with which I teallv meant to attack htm, was only the
one dav and a half's march from the enemy,! '
then plaeed the a. ay behind the river Che..ifa, , he
where it appeared t« be on the defenfivewin Ift ma
General Kilmaine advanced to the p ds of Perflie- tua
ra, and daily had Come (kirmifhes with the advanc- has
ed pod. of the enemy, in ore of which the Au
ftrian General, Lieptay, was Hilled. the
On the iotb the division of General Angereau h, s
relieved that of General 'Kilmaine, which retro
traded to Lonado, and a-rived that eventng at Ca
fiialiona. General Maffena was then at mount
Chearo, and General Se ri.rier at Montz. At 2
o'clock, A. M. all the dijNfions wero in motion,
directing their march towards Borghetto, where I H
had determined to cross the Minico. The enemy s
tanguard, confining of 3 or 4.000 infantry, and
of I,Boo'hotfe, defended the approach of Borgh
ctto. Out cavalry, on a flow trot, flanked and
followed by our carabineers and grenadiers, charg
ed them with much bravery, put *e enemy's ca. nc
valry it! disorder, and took from them a P>ece of te
artillery. The enemy then ctoffed the bridge, de- w
rnolilhkig one of its arches. The light artillery n<
immediately engaged. We were endeavoring with c
much difficulty to mend it ur.der the fire of the
enemy's batteries, when about 50 grenadier., with g
General Gardenne, a grenadier in height, as well «
a 9 courage, at their head, threw themselves .n-the b
river (the water beinf up to their chins) holding ft
their muflce.s over their heads. The enemy, be_ n
lieving they saw the dreadful column that attacked
chem at the bridge of Lody, flew Ihe bndge e
vas menred with ease ; our grenadier, mftamly
passed the Mincio, and possessed themselves of Va-
L.io, tie head quarter, of Beaul.eu, who had 4
•mil left it. However, the enemy daggered, and <
partly roamed, were drawn up in order of battle, J
between Valeggio and Villa Franca, but we took <
pood care not to follow them. They appeared to ,
rally and their batteries were enereafed and moved I
towards us. This was what I wished. 1
had much ado to contain the impatience, or rather
the fury of the grenadiers
In the mean time Gen. Angereau crossed the Mm
cio • he had orders to move towards Perthiera, fol
lowing the bank, of this river, and cut off the pafe
off the Tyrol from the enemy. Beiuhea and the
wrecks of his army, would then have been completely
fnrrounded without a possibility of retreating. In or-
Her to prevent the enemy from feeing the movement of
General Angereau, I caused them to be vigorously ca
nof.adcd from Valeggio ; h*t being inftroaed by their
patroles, of Gene"! An«creau « 1 'ke enemy
BS7 CS
<v "-fe
1 . --.j ''id -A'ondf liiis
tommit.v ■ 1 •
n » 1 • j-.ix - 'everr of m-
Genera ' • r prisoners
; fsjsj
.V pU.< "«u
---"oJSi't'iTVttrnk of J.y. «' '«
:',vni;; bwt tltf enemy I'.ad rfre.dy I ihe
, Adideo, and broken down almost all the bridge..
'Phe lose of the enemy, on this day is corr.puied
nt 15CO men, and 500 horse., killed and »ken
rifoners. Among the latter is 1 nr.ee de Cout.o,
,'jctrt. General of the amte* of the King of Na
e., and commander in Chief of the Neap-ditian
,* vahv We have also taken fivy pieces of cannon,
,0 twelve and three fix poimders and seven or
' ;.ht covered waggons, loaded with military , Votes.
\. e found magazines, at Caflelv-uova, of w.nch a
rt was already consumed bj v fue. General ot
« vifiop, Kilmaine, had a horse wounded under bim.
Thus are the AaSriahs totally expelled Italy. , |" ,rl ■29th
Our advanced polls, are on the mountain, of Ger- '
many. I will not mention the men who hav; dif
tinguilhed themfelve. by their bravery—to do this ls j
it would be neceflary to name every granadier and arfiTf( j
carabineer of the van guard—they all defy and . ,
laugh at death—They are now well used to meet ca i fchoon|
valry, which they despise ; nothing equals their cou- (
rage unlef. it is the gaiety with which they undergopprj r
repeated forced nnrches—They ftng alternately nimeu
their country and the God of love. You would ,
naturally suppose, that arrived at the plaee.. deftiu-
ed for their left, they would at lead seek - to enjoy> .
some repose—but no, they amofe themfelve. by au p;i
furmifmg and planning the operations of the next nj
day, and some of them often think very | U ftly. The
other day, whild feeing a half brigade filing off, a .
infantry mart approached me and said, " Uene-, q- - .
ral we mud do f, and » Sir cried 1, will
you be silent ?" and he instantly disappeared. I
havefince endeavoured to,find him (for what lie ghj j
hinted was exaaiy what I had ordered) but 1 r p
fought in vain, n T r Ret
(Signed; BUONAPARTE. {
Buonaparte, General in Chief of the Army of Italy, j )er S ca
to the Executive Direflory.
Head-Quarters Prefchiera,
14th Prairial, June (I ) car "
, Citizen Direaots, I . .. Six per
I fend you tnclofed a copy of the •manitelto 1 "phrcc 5
, publidwd on entering the Venetian teiritories. 5 i per
: The republic of Venice had fuffered Pefchiera, per
\vhich is a strong place to be oceupied by the Impe- Detcrr<
rialifts! butthanks to the Viaory of Borghetto;
we have possession of i', and I now write to you frem
this city. - ——
General Maffena occupies with hi. division Ve
rona* a handsome and large City where there are i nf . rM
two btidge. on the Adige..
, (Signed) BUONAPARTE. Eich*
Buonaparte, General in Chief of the Army of Italy,
e to the Republic of Vmice.
0 Brescia, 10lb Prairial, 4/A Tear.
It is in order to deliver the fined part of Eu- p
r rope from the iron sway of the ambitioirs House of R.IC 1
Audria, that tbe French army has overcome the
t most difficult obftacles—Viaory joined in hand with Co
1- juftioe, has crowned its efforts. The remain, of Q nce
- remains of the enemy's army have retreated beyond
•1 the Mincio. The French army pafles on the ter
o ritories of Venice to ptirfue them—But it will be °m|
0 remembered that friendfhip has long united the
two Republics. Religion, Government, Customs, 't 1
le al ,d Property, all shall be refpeaed - Let the peo
" pie not he uneasy; the most severe dtfcipline shall n il
t, he maintained—-and all that shall be farnifhed to W
y the army; shall be fliiaiv paid in specie. Unlo
1 The General in Chief requests the officers of A
the Republic, the Magidrates, and the Prieds, to
ft make known his sentiment. to the people, that rati- y (
e- t ual confidence may cement the friendfhip which
e- has so V' n g united the two. nations q
"■ Faithful to the path of honor as that of viaory,
the French soldier is only .errible to the enemies of
lu his liberty, and of his country.
(Signed) BUONAPARTE. See
a " The General of the Division, Chief ot the Staff.
Nt (Signed) ALEX, BERTHIER. Whi
2 * To late refidenceof Lcui» XVJU. H
n, _ And
I The Commissary of the Executive Directory, near \\
it's the army of the Sambre and the Meufe, to the cfr
nd Direaoiy. ,
th- " Head-Quarte-s, Ravinem, ' _
19th Prarial, (June 7.) ou '
l(r . "To announce another battle is only relating a
nother viaory !—The brave Kleber has totally de- Anc
of seated near Altenkirken, the body of Austrian troops 1
de- which meant to dop his march ; 12 pieces of can- Let
ery non, 4 pair of colours, ar-d more than 3000 pri- /
•ith foiers, are the testimony of the triumph of the left
the wing of the army of the Sambre and Meufe. Ma- Cor
,*ith gazines of provifions,forage and ammunition, which v
well was thought to be infafety by the enemy, have also J
the been taken by him. He purfties the course o. his
ling success, and is aaually on the Lahn. Gen. Gre
be nier has passed the Rhine, at Neuwied, and has ef
ked feaed a junaion with Kleber. This reinforcement j) J,
idge enables him.to po"'erfully, and to cut in pieces Th
ntly the tardy fiiccour., which Prince Cl;arles has sent \\?)
Va- to Wirtemberg. Ges. Jourdan afiifts this opera- Sh<
had tion by two regiment, ot cavalry, which are about Qu
and eroding the Rhine to join the Corps on the ff,
ttle, Never was the< e a diversion more fcientifically con- yj
look ceived and more vigorously, more ably executed. Pr,p r ,
d to Soon will the feat of war be entirely on the right |
oved bank of the Rhine. Oi
1 «• The commander in Chief will forward a more a,
ither minute account of the affair of Altenkirken, and y;
will fend you the colour, taken from 'he enemy. ITI
Min- (Signed) , "JOUBERI. T1
' f°'* P. S. In the firfl report of the affair of Leige, ]
passes we on ly s upp osed about 100 or 1200 prisoners ;we p :
| (I j e now find upward, of 2000 ; the hussar regiment of T
Barco alone, loft more than 600 men.
ent of ' f
ly ca- —- ~' ~ ~ 1 1
their Philadelphia, Augiijt 3. B
nemy 1 A
'"and ARRIVED AT THIS PORT. J
Tlfi's Schooner Jupiter, Burbank, New-"V ork 6 V
ht in- Friendship, Handly, Carolina j S
sowers Lucinda, Lookwood, 5
light Robert, Cottrel, North Carol,na 4■ ,■
eneral Betsey, Williams, ' 3! I
rvatu- Kitty, Smith, °" J t
Sloop Dolphin, Denike, Ricmond 5 _
ed to Kezwh, Dawes, North Carol.** 8, .
■d the Nancy, Robbins, • do " | J
cleared. I i
Ship Harriet, Moore, Hamburgh r
•P u!ed Brig ICcrenhappuck. LiUibrWge, „.^ ere T • j
taken Sehor. Betfev and Kitty, Mirrow, Hifpamola !
'outlo, Izabelli, Ker, * I C-lrracoa ■ .
,f Na- Sally, Griffin, New-York
>olitian ChnfTey, Brown, f '
0 _ Sloop Lively, Bliss, nif j 1
ann °"' Industry, Dill'ngham, New-Bedt..rJ ;
T or Maria Clark, „ , , A «" b "y
, rotes. TjVrn up at S( . a> b y Captain Jas. Burbank, of the
vUich » fcho'iner Jupiter, the crew of thv [loop Hannah, seven
eval of in number, Frederick Birf master, which foundered
er him. on her-paffage irom New-York to Cbarleflon, (S.C.)
«r
i<w i 9 tn July, one hour and an half after the crew left F
Jicr, in their fight. , Mofl
The brig Commerce of London, from St. Domingo pearanc
is arrived at he Fort. , At t
On Monday the fthr. Philadelphia, capt. Lewis' haßthe
arrived here from Leogane. lndijn
July 23th, abreast of the Platform, fpok* the whear
fchoonir Regulator, fr«?m New-York to Leogane: })aßbe(r
the 14th, the Chip Betsey, fiom Philadelphia far[i
to Port-au Prince, and a schooner from $o(ton, 4j ffi
name unknown. July 17, under Heneatiga, was t)jat
brought to by a New Providence privateef, who f
put 011 board capt. Peatfon and 5 of the cjew be
longing to tlie (hifr Helter of London, from Port
au Piince homeward bound : the VefTel having a n() ',
few nights before been call awsy on Heneauga
reef. The remainder ot the crew were put on f
board a bn£ belonging to New York, trom Aux- n
Caye (iw'ieward bound which they bad captured h fort
the day before and lent down to Ne* Providence. diie
Arrivals at New-York. itrnain
Ship Harriet, Davis, London 63 r a || f oV
Polly, Hawes, . Liverpool 60 ,
Returned to port this morning, ft»p Joleph. capt. fromt |
Felt, bound to Dublin, having ft tuck on the mil- [q hay
die ground, near Sandy-hook, and fptunk » leak— lure q(
her cargo, pot-a(h, oil and lumber. > vented
ever, c
STOCKS. grkls<
— - ,/* growt
Six per Cent. - - 17/7 .
Three per Cent. ------- - I°/7 ~
per Cent. - - - it.o
4. per Cent. - - none for fait. - - 14/ (Itang
Deferred Six per Cent. - - - - 13/6107 where
— it nev
BANK United States, - - - - 24 pr- cent. hole 1
Psnnfylvariia, - - - - 3°
11— North \mericd, - - - - 46
— Retur
Ins rt»ce Comp. North-America, 40 per cent. adv. fc |
' 9 >o,xoper cent. Qj t
Exchangi, at 60 days, - - - 16.? t» 166 a-3 j ul
ill HIM To
AN ODE. 3874
— rr \ hogfll
(Composed by B. Bidwell, E<q.) f, ne fl
For the celebration of Independence, at 24,7"
r RICHMOND, (Massachusetts,) July +th, *79 6 - cords
; ONCE more, on Freedom's holiday, Haves
\ Columbia's sons rejoice ; . co •-
! Once mere we join the feftive lay hoglf
And tune our giateful voice. dies
e Come ye, who love the smiling. train,
r That hover e'er this land,
With one accord, adopt the drain trmil
■ And let our joys expand. barrc
" Hail Independence ! Glorious hour, 1 tute( j
0 When one sublime decree j J"
Unloos'd the giafp of British power • 20 b
if And spoke a nation free ! j fine
° Columbia felt the inspiring (hock, I tons
Yet trembled, till (he saw 3 b "
Her emniie founded on the rock j head
Of Government and law. I " ci
See- diflant Asia bound in chains ;
See Afric'funk in glooms; p
See ijun.pe bleed, at all her veins, j
f, And armies thrortg her tombs I I cent
While here fwett Peace maintains her {land, 1
Here plenty fpreadsher charms; pijrt
And Wajhington ft ill rules the land, 1
» r Which once he fav'd by arms.
1C Ccme then and let us all rejoice,
Nor fear a tyrant's rod, I
But join toblefs, with heart and voice,
a . Columbia's guardian God. A 1 —
e ' And, while we quaff the stream that flows, I
P' To cheer the freeborn mind, lor
n- Let's drop a teat o'er others' woes, . g l ' a
"• And pray lor all mankind. ' I ,c "'
eft ■ I '
t>-" Composed by Mr. Allen, the yoijng Gentleman hai!
Ch w h„ pronounced the Oration tn Providence,
lf° Rhode-Island.
his —
re ODE for the Fourth of July, 1796.
ef- I. | XVI
= nt 1 DREAD Goddefson this happy day, .
res Thy suppliants annual homage pay : J Jp_
ent j When fit It thy faee in splendor bright, I tur
;ra " Shor.e like the morning from the night ; J 1
° ut Our Fathers caught the heav'tily flame, - I
hn. , Tliey fought, they bled, and died for fame, j w
on- while Fieedom with her all-infpiving breath,
led. p r oclaim'd theto glorious in the field of death.
ightj 11. .1 I -
' Our Heroes pour'd the purple flood,
,ore And swam thto' seas of fire and blood ; Jrn
and Virginia's hero led the van, j J
h I The foremoft in the cause of Manl «a
" ! The bloomy laurels long (hall giow, Ipa
•ige, j And round hisfacred Temples blow :
1«« Fame oft (hall tell with many a tncklmg tear,
it of' The man who foat'd ib Glory's flaming bphere. J
111. 7
— Long fin' r prophetic bands foretold,
In rapture Tweet, an age of gold ; J ■,
Behold the brilliant day Stai rife, J
And sparkle in Columbia s Ikies.
The pale eye'd victim of despair.
Days Smoothsup.his wtinkled brow of care ; , . 1
ork 6 While freedom's Goddets hovering oer our plain.,
ina 5 Strikes from his wither'd hands the galling chains,
ork 5 * IV. i
ma 4 ■ »fi 9 thus th? Eagle when confin'd, 1
°* 3 ! Feels the llrong impulse in his mind ;
lin'd 5 ' He views with iix'd, eye
Uma ii 1 The meaf«Te of the earth and (ley.
o. But when rtleas'd from earth, he fprmgs,
' And rising 011 his rapid wings,
uurgh Thfo , , he wl(Je Fields of Ether wins h>s way,
eremie (• oarsan< j wantons in theblaze of day.
amola \ y,
■-York Here hardy labour plies his trade,
ronton And learning seeks the Muse's Shade.
-lfland Arabia's fwcets the mind will cloy,
edford ' And (hut the sparkling eye of joy.
Vmhoy g OII , a we als and timid race,
of r the Repose in pl'eafuies foft embtacc i
'mWed V hi,e fa, " r Columbia's hardy foos rtiall stand
(S C.) Like walls of fire-aiound their much-lov d land.
j - % ' '
FAIRHAVEN, (VnmontJ July 25.
Most of the papers pronotiuyc the higheit ap
pearance of plentiful crops ot grain and hay.
At no time finne the fatlrment of this country,
has the earth borne so rich a burthen in thele patts.
Indian corn' has a promising afpeSt. Grass and
wheat weifi- never bet ter. The gteat price w{teat
has been fold at since lad harvell, induced eve
-1 ry farmer to lay ahout him, and sow as.mtich wheat
' is poffiblc, In many towns the zeal ran so high,
that there were more than twice the nnrober of
' acres fuwed, that ever were a? any tim- before.
Frejh evidence that Oats -willproduce Rye* .
Col. .David Irwin, of this town, has two at its of
1 rye now Handing in the field, which it is supposed
1 will yield fifteen bushels per acre, without a single
1 grain of rve ever having been sown or feattered on
! the ground. The land bore a crop of corn the year
bejfort last, and last year it was fjwn for oatsj and
" produced a good ctop which was cut early. The
tt.Tiainder of the field was left fallow, am? the lall
' /all sown with whtat, so that the oats Bubble was not
3 fed. There appeared a great plenty of fprptits
from the oat (lubble—this spring Col. Irwin meant
to have ploughed the gtouhd again ; but the mois
ture of the foil, and the wetness of the season, pre
vented it, untii it became too late. It was how- v
ever, covered with verdure, which was taken to be
grals, chefs, or weeds, until the largtnefs of the -
growth piovoked a closer examination, when the
rye appeared. >
Mr. Duting, a farmer near by, observing this
(Itange mel?morphtifis, now accounts for land
where his corn grows, being full of rye this year—
it never was cultivated till the lalt year, .when it
bore oat Si
—— mimMi 11 'M "H> ' ■'*
Return of Goods, Wares, and M -tchandize export
ed from the Diitrift of Bermuda-Hundred or
City-Point, from the ill os-April to the 30th ot
June, 1796.
To Germany,—64s" gallons Weft India rum,
3874 lbs. brown sugar, 3 i,gs6 hogshead Saves, 55 1 •
hogsheads tobacco:—To England— 1052 barrels
fine flour, 16 tofa pig iron, 14,36® hoglheail Itaves,
24,770 bariel Staves, 1539 hogsheads tobacco, 16
cords fire wood :—To Scotland—s6o hogftead
Haves, 45,63 c barrel staves, 421
co :—To Holland—Booo hoglhead ftuVfS, 404
| hog(h'eads tobacto :—l"o the Swedi(h Welt In-
I dies— 50 barrels bread, 4 hogfheads'bacon, 20 box
es candles, 12 jars currants, 8 barrels fine flour,
628 barrels fifh, 4 demijohns Geneva, 1 keg, 3 fir.
kins, and fivj battels lard, 3 boxes medicine, 3
I trunks, 4 boxes-, a >d 1 hogfliead merchandize, 127
I barrels pease, I box coopers .tools, 2 kegs manufac-
I tuted lobacco, 21 demijohns wine.
I TOTAL.— 50 barrelshread, 4 hogsheads bacon',
I 20 boxes candles, 12 jars curr«'.t«, 1060 batrels
1 fine flour, 628 barrelsfiihj 4 demijohns Geneva, 16
I tons pig iron, I keg, 3 firkins, and 5 barrels lard,
I 3 boxes medicines, 3 trunks, 4 boxes, ar.d 1 hogs-
I head merchandize, 12 -barrels ,pea(e, 64 gallons
I Weft liijjHa rum, 3874 lbs, brown ftigar, 43,006
I kogfhead (laves, 70,420 barrel staves, 1 box coop-
I cts touls, 2915 hogsheads tobacco. 2 kegs manu-
I fattured ditto, 21 d-emijohns wine, -16 cords wood.
I Total amount of exports, 255, 164 dollars and 68
J cents.
NeU value of evcty species of merchandize, 1m-
I ported into this Dillrift within the fame peiiod,
I 193,016 dollars and 38cents.
Collectors < Jffice, Bermuda Hundred,
I July 1, 1796.
ROBERT WALKER, for
WILLTAM HeTH, C°"e<2or.
* I'he meoibcrt of ! Prnl idelphia Society
I for th« information and afliftance of perfoiii emi- "*
I grating from foreign countries, are requested to at-
I tend a general meeting of said society, to be held
I at the College, in Fourth street, this evening, at
man half palt (even o'clock.
HCC> JOHN BROWNE, Set'ry.
BY AN ARTIST,
Resident at Mr. Oellers'i Hooel,
MINIATURE LIKENESSES
I \ RE taken and executed in that elegant and delicat*
I J\ stile, which i>fo necessary to render a Miniature Pis-
I ture an imereftuig iewcl.
I He will warrant a strong and indifp'utable refem-
I blanee ; and he takes the liberty to lay lie! ore the public
I of this place his most earnest intention to deserve their pa
-1 tronage by his befl endeavors to pleufe.
I N. B. Specimens are to be seen.
I May 14. 5
To be disposed of,
j npHF time ef a healthy NEGRO WOMAN, who
j X has b»tween four ahd five years to serve: She
I e.an be recommended so her sobriety and honesty. For
I particulars enquire at No. 13a, Chefnut-flreet.
I August 3. »awtf.
I ELEPHANT.
I This Animal is to be seen in High-Street, bet-ween
1 the Tenth a"d the Eh'vmth-Street,
j TTF, will positively leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep-
I JrL trmber for Baltimore, in his way to Chaijlellon,
I where he will win er " -
ADMITTANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar
I for Children .
The panorama, or the view of the cities of
p' a,n, > | LONDON and WESTMINSTER
:hains. to he open till the toth r,f S ptemhrr, and the fub
ie<ft will then be removed to Baltimore with the EL.E
PHANT
ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA,
One quarter of a Dollar.
Atißuft j.'
Brig LUCY at Auction.
ON Friday -.fXt, the sth infianftsat the Merchants'
Coffee-Honfe, in Stco- d ftre-et,
, Will b' Cold by -Autlion,
At 8 o'tlock in the evening,
THE BRIG
' LUCY,
A ' s,out » strong vefiel, will
J - al«oiir 1100 barrels, and may go
" to sea witß a very fni?ll exnenfe.
1 footman Co. Juilidueers,
land. ug uft 5 £Treasury of the United States.
NOTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or _
may be Creditors of the United States, for any funis
of the Funded Debt, or Stocky baring a present interejl of fix
per centum per annum. .
i ft, That pursuant to an A& of Congress passed on the
aßth day ®f April, 1796, intitledan a<sl in addition to an °
aA, intituled " An ad making further provision for the
support of public credit, and for the redemption 01 the
public debt," the fajddebt or flock will be r«imburfed and a
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends 0
" to be made on the lad days of March, June and Septem-
" her for the present year, and from the year onethoufand
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou
c< sand eight hundred & eighteen inclusive, at the rate of
" one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the last day of
" Decembar for the present year, and from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year
#< one thousand eight hundred and seventeen incluftve, at
•* the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma. e on the last
44 day of December, in the year one thousand eight hun- I!
" dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then adc- i
u quate, according to the contrad, for the final redemp-
M tion of th said stock."
2d. All diftindion between payments on account of
Interefi and Principal being thus abolilhed J>y the establish- r
ment of the permanent rule of reimbursement abovs de
scribed, it has become necessary to vary accordingly the ft
powers of attorney for receiving dividends ;'the public n
creditors will therefore observe that the following form
is established for all powers of attorney which may be a
granted after the due promulgation ot this notice, viz.
KNOW ALL MEN BT THESE PRESENTS, that Z
I of in
do make, conjlitute and appoint
of my true and lawful At
torney ,for me, and in my name, to receive the dividends wh ch are,
or Jball be payable according to laiv, on the (here describing the
(lock) flanding in my name in the books of (here describing the
"batiks of the Treasury or the Commiflioner of Loans, c
where the stock is credited) from (hdre mfert the com
mencement and expiration of time for which the power of
attorney is to continue) ivith power also an attorney or attar-
nics under him, for that purpose to make and fubjiitute, and to do all
lawful aSis requisite for effecting thepremifes, hereby ratifying and
confrmrng all that my said Attorney or hisfubjiitute ,JhaU lawful
ly do, by virtue hereof
Jn JVitnefs hereof \ I have hereunto set my Hand and Seal the
day of in the year
Sealed and Delivered,
in presence of
BE IT KNOWN, that on the day of e
befrs me personally came a
within named and acknowledged the above letter of attorney to be a
bis qfl cad deed. h
In teflimony whereof I have hereunto set my Hand and affix -
ed Seal the day and year last aforefaid, d
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, thistwen- n
tietb day of July 1796, pursuant to diredions a
from the Secretary of the Treasury. 0
SAMUEL MEREDITH, V
1 roafurer of the United States. a
July w&st I Jf. C
———— — ■ ■ ■ —— t
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Northern Liberties and diltrift of .
Southwark;
Published, and fold by t
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High street, J
( Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is t6 inches fqnare, and has been en
graved by one of the firft artists In the city, from a late !
and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a pam '
phlet with each plan, giving " some account of the ;
city, its population, trade, government, &c.
July 19 tu & f tf
J
Samuel Richardet,
RESPECTFULLY informs the Gentlemen
Merchants, that he has this day opened the CITY
TAVERN and MERCHANTS COFFEEHOUSE in the
city of Philadelj hia; 1
' The Subscription Room will be furnifhed with all the |
daily papers published in Philadelphia, N:w-York, Bos
ton, Baltimore, together with those of the principal com
mercial citiss of Europe—They will be regularly filed 1
and none permitted to be taken away on any account. I '
Tea, Coffee, Soupes, Jellies, Ice Creams, and a variety '
of French Liquors; together with the usual refrefhments, i '
will at all times be procured at the bar. j '
Gentlemen may depend on being accommodated with ' (
the choicefl of Wines, Spirituous Liquors, and the most :
approved Malt Liquors from London and other breweries. ' '
The Larder will be supplied with the prime and earliell '
produ<slions of tho Season. 1
Large and small Parties, or single Gentlemen, may be '
accommodated with Breakfafts, Dinners, or Suppers, at
hours moll convenient to themselves—a cold Collati#n is
regularly k«pt for conveniency, the Bill of Fare to be had '
at the bar. I
The Lodging Rooms will be completely furnifhed, and
the utmofl attention paid to cleanliness, and every other
requisite. '
Samuel Richardet will be happy te receive, and
execute the commands of his Friends, and the Public at
large; and with gratitude for their favours, he pledges
himfelf that nothing on his part fhali be wanting to pre
serve that patronage wish which he has been so diftinguifh
ingly iiohored.
Philadelphia, April r9- eo
Philip iNicklin & Co.
HArE FOR SALE,
Souchong
Hyson Skin )
Young Hyson fRESH TEAS
Hyson and \
Imperial *
Yellow Nankeens
China Ware, aflbrted in Boxes and Chests
QuJckfilver
Bandanno Handkerchiefs of excellent quality us
chests
London Market MADEIRA WINE
London particular >-in pipes, hogsheads, &
New-York Market J quarter casks
Teneriffe Wine in pipes and hogsheads
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. i a S
Lead in (heets
3 Cnfk* of Cutlery aflbrted
A few chests of Manchester Goods, aflbrted thick -
set«, cords, striped Nankeens, &c.
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks
# Tisrces Virginia Snake-soot.
Nails aflbrted in calks
Jplf mwiftf
• Twenty Dollars Reward.
WAS STOLEN, last evening, from the psfture of t^ c
fubferiber, a black Rockingham GELDING, 15
»-a hands high, has a flar, and some white undeV his
throat, (the parrteing formerly chafed) ;has a leather on
}ii» neck, tlie mnne on the near fide, his foot-locks fretted
•with a clog, and is a horse of much hone ar.d size. Who
ever secures him with the thief, fhali have the above re
ward, or lor the Horse alone a very generous compenfa
y tion JOHN LAWRENCE.
July 7 to4w
~ - t •'
JOHN PAUL JONES.
INFORMATION is hereby given, that the late John C
.Paul Jones was a proprietor of fire (hares (amount- -*-■
ing to about 5867 icres) in a trail of land }>urchafei by
the Ohio Company, in the territory of the United States w y
of America, north-weft of the river Ohio ; and that his U p,
heirs, or legal representative, on application to the direc- ;
tors of said company, at Marietta iu the territory afore
faid, will receive a deed of the said five {hares, or rights
of land.*
The application maybe made personally or by an agent;
but proper documents must be produced to prove the
claimant 01* claimants the legai heirs or representative of
the said Jones.
n.b. As it is not known in what country the person
or perfonsinterefted reside, it will be an a& tfbenevolc" 1 e
in every Printer in America and Europe, wl.o fliall insert
in his paper.
In behalf of the directors of theOhqo Company,
UUFUS PU'PNAJVr.
Marietta, May 20,1796- (June 4 ] s "3awqw
UNITED STATES, ?
Pennsylvania Drsrsicr, j
. Notice is hereby given,
THAT pursuant to a Writto me di:e<sted, from the ho
norable Richard Peters, Esquire, Judge of the Di
ftri& Court of the United States in and fur the Pennsylva
nia Diftri&,
Will -be ezpofed to Sale,
at the Custom-House, on Monday, the 15th day of Au
gust, 3 Bags of COFFEE V
1 Bbl. SUGAR -L
1 Half do. do. ™
a Do. do TAMARINDS t»<
i Kegs do. & 1
* Bags of Sugar and tI(
3 Do. Coffee O 1
The Tame having bee* libelled against. prosecuted, and vv
condemned as forfeited, in the said court th
WILLIAM NICHOLS, Mzrftial.
Marshal's Office, 20th Tulv. t^q*.
' , th
For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AND WELL FINI3HED
Three-story Brick Hou'le,
(The late residence of General Walter Stew art) —
WITH a LOT ef GROUND thereunto belonging,
the weft Me of Third-street, near Union-street yy
containing in front 34 feet, and ita depth 100 feet, to an vv
alley leading into Union-ftrcet. The house is 31 feet front
and 50 feet deep ; the several rooms contained in it are ry
large, commodious, andcompletely finifhed; thetwofirft
Tories are each 13 feet, high ; there are 20 mahogany (2
doors in the house.; a-geometrical ilaircafe, with mahoga
ny rails and a geod Iky-light. The kitchen is in the cell
ar, which is fpacioys and convenient, and finifhed with an
oven, ftew-Tioles and pantries, a fervents' hall ani large
Vvine-cellar adjoining the kitchen, in front of which is an
area in which there is a pump The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building is a neat three-story
brick house, on the north fide of Union-street, contain
ing 30 feet front by 10 feet deep; the lower part of which
is at present occupied as a compting-houfe, and fht upper *
part divided into well-finifhed large chambers. Thishcufe
may at a small expense be converted into a convenient '
dwelling : The (treetdoo( is very handsome, and the front ~
and back have Venetian window-shutters. Adjoining the
last houfc, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are (.reded -g"
bathing-rooms, See. There are likewise very good coach- J"
house and flablea finifhed equal (or nearly so) with any in 1
the city, on a lot containing on Union street 30 feet, and «,
in depth 011 the wall fide of said alley 52 feet. There are h .
good cellars unde, the whole of the buildings, and a wine r r
room over part of theftable, with a hay-loft over there- c j
mainder. For further particulars enquire of
EDWARD UONSaLL & Co. v
At their Office No. 64 Dock-ilreet. between Walnut & Pear
eo llrcets.
6th month 24th, 1796
F 0 R SAL £,
, A very Valuable Estate, *
CALLED TWITTENHAM, situate in the
township of Upper Derby, and county of Delaware,
,1 7 1-2 miles from Phiiad lphia, and half a mile from the
new Western road 1 containing 230 acres of excellent-land,
[ 4J of which are good watered meadow, go of prime wood
land, and the reft arable of tha firft quality. There are F
j on the preroifes a good two story brick house, with 4 rooms
lon a floor, and cellars under the whole, with a pump-well (
of excellent water in front; a large frame barn, stables, I
and other convenient buildings ; a fmoke-Koufe and stone, t!
I spring-house ; two good apple orchards, and one of peach- n
es. The fields aiVall in clover, except those immediately e;
under tillage, and arc so laid out as to have tiie advantage q
of water in each of them* which renders it peculiarly con- n
venient for grazing. f (
The situation is pleasant and healthy, and from the high E
.cultivation of the land, the good neighbourhood, and the
vicinity to the city, it is very suitable for a gettleman's «
country feat. r
The foregoing is part of the estate of Jacob Harman,
dcceafed, and offered for sale bv £
Mordecai Lewis, r
Q<SI. 9. eoQ Surviving Executor. r
Lottery and Broker's Office, 0
N 9 64 South Second fir est,
TICKETS in the Canal Lottery No. 11, are now rea
dy for sale, a Check Book kept for the examination
of Tickets, and Prizes paid, without dedu&ion
The Subscriber solicits the application of the Public or ""
any ot his friends Who wish to pur h fe or fell Bank Stock,
Certificates, Bills of Exchange, or Notes, Houses, Lands' 0
Lotts or Merchandize of any kind, or to obtain Money' ~
on deposit of property. f
WILLIAM BLACKBURN,. |
Late Agent for the Canal Lottery Company. r
0- Shares an ■ Tickets in the late 'Newport Long
Wharf, Hotel and Public School X.ottery examined; a
complete lift of all the prizes having been received at
1 this office.
June 6. _____ w .Vs
c Jsjheton and James Humphreys, 1
CONVEYANCERS,
HAVE removed theit office to No. 61, Walnut-street, a
next door but two to the corner of Dsck-ftreet' <
where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING are drawn at 1
a moderate charge, with care, accuracy and dii'patch — 1
They likewise buy and fell Real Estates upon commit i
- Cons > snd procure Money upon Loan on good security — '
The business of an ATTORNEY AT LAW and NOi'A
RY PUBLIC is also tranMed at the said office as usual 1
b y ASSHETON HUMPHREYS. <
N.B. Good Notesdifcounted.
i eo6w
lufurance comp. cf the state ol
: Pennsylvania.
s The Direflors have dcclarcd a dividend of fixtcen dol
, a "f n each ware of the capital of said company, for the
j last fix months whith will be paid to the stockholders or
_ then legal reprefsntatives on every day after the loth
mltant.
S. W. Fijher,
A** u SeCr diol'
George Dobson, c
BEGS leave to inform the Store-Keepers in Tovvn and k
Countrv, that he has removed fro'n Market-Street to
N°* 25, south Tkird-ftreet,
where he is opening a Large and Elegant Affortmeot of the
» urdermfinuoned at tides—viz.
Superfine London Clothe and Kcrfcymeres,
Yorkshire second Do.
\ Eta (lie do. do.
Ivlix'ri and Biue Coating* •
, Flannclls, Szc.
i Mancheder Printed Callicoes,
f London Chintz ditto,,
B3ueand Furnitures,
x India diito,
Long Cloths, CofTaes, Baftas, Battillas&Conjevrems,
4"4 9"® 5"4 Suoer.fine India Book Muslins,
4-4 nnd 9-8 India Book Handkerchiefs,
4-4 and 9-8 Scotch ditto,
4-4 & 6-4 plain do Muslins,
4-4 & 6-4 Britiih Jaconets,
6-4 British Checks and Stripes,
4-4 India do. do, do.
4-4 ditto Chiiloes, Madras Handkerchiefs, Sec.
A large aHortment ot figur'd and plain Muflincts,
Quillings, Ditnities, and Striped Nankeens,
Fancy W^i|leoaiings,
Gingham* 01 the firllQuality» fubjeift to Drawback",
India Nankeens,
Men's White and coloured Silk (lockings.
May 9 1
ti
To be fold,
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, colin- a!
ty of Gloucester, and iiate of New-Jerfcy, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres; a Cuitable propor- v
tion of which is woodland and improved meadow. A
great part of th 4 arable land is in a high state of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clover. lC
On said plantation there is a genteel two-story brick houle,
I with four rooms 011 a floor, and a good dry cellar under
the whole ; together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage-
house. I'he garden is large, and contains a good collec-
tion of the best kinds of grafted and inoculated fruit trees ;
the orchard consists of about three hundred grafted apple- v
trees. Any person inclined to purchase said premises, may
be informed ©f the terms by applying to
Andrew Hunter.
. J u, y 2 9 F r.
On Monday next, 25thinft. (July,); ti
Will be landed at South flreet wharf, the cargoes of Superb,
1 Weft Indian and Ifabclla, from Jamaica and ilavanna, con- 11
1 lifting ot
1 Molafies in Hogsheads, ®
f Coffee in hogftieads, barrels & bags, n
FCR SALE BY
; 1 PETER BLIGHT,
2 Who has also for sale, a
I A quantity of Jamaica GINGER, b
Y Pimento & 7 T ts
; Cocoa, jla Ba Ss
r And 158 boxes Hambro' WINDOW GLASS, 7by q, will t
e be fold cheap.
t . Julys® diot & tuth & s jot
e FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD. '
d T) AN away from the fubferiber living near Church
-TV Hill, Qu»en Anns County in the State of Mary land' J
" about the firlt of January lw>, a black negro man, named c
Sam, aboOt thirty years of age, j feet Bor 9 inches high, (
e has a crooked finger on one hand, and one leg and foot '
e smaller than the other, fomcwhat round-(houldered, his
cloathing unknown. Any person who will secure or
bring said fellow home, so that 1 may get him again {hall ,
have the above reward withreafonable charges.
,r WILLIAM JACOBS. t
J unt 4> "iawim, j
To-Morr-cw will be published,
No. I, 11, and IJ!, (No. 1 embellilhed with a superb En
graving, representing the firft introduction of the Maid
of Orleans to Charles VII, and No. 3 with an ele
gant aitd highly finifhed Head of Henry IV, from an
original painting) of the
t HISTORY OF FRANCE,
re From the earliest times until the conclusion of the pre
is sent war.
II QUCH gerftlemen as wish to receive this work in vo
s, Olumes will be attended to by fignifying their wish to
e, tni; Publishers and paying the firft volume in advance, 25
1- nymbers making a volume, at three-sixteenths of a dollar
y each. To gentlemen of the trade or others who tike
I e quantities, a liberal allowance will be made—orders for a
-- ny quantity of copies addre&d jo A. & J. G. Hendcr
fon,at MefTrs. Bioren and Madan Printers, back of No. 77
h Dock-Strect will be carefully attended to. «
' e '" r - S : 'kf cr 'pt' ons be received at the present rate
s until the middle of September, to those who ivifh tofub
* *f' er tfMt time tbe , 1""'" w'Ube advanced.
„ Printers of Nevf-papers throughout the United
State < qvho would wi/h to encourage this undertaking by
r -te.-omg fußfcriptions will please advertise this in their
r.-Jpeft-.-ve papers and tranfnit the number of fubferiber j ,
on or before the iqth September.
Au S utt '■ mw&fjt.
Mr. FRANCIS,
(Of the Neiu Theatre)
jr T*?™ this ?PP°' tunity of returning thanks to his 1
It, x frholars ami to the public. Mr. Francis intends,
: S) on his return from Maryland, to open a public aca- '
7 demy for dancing, upon a plan entirely new. He '
flatters himfelf that his attention to his pupil, hi- 1
therto renders any promise, of conducing his future '
ichemes on the most liberaJ and ftri&eft terms, of pro
priety, totally unneceflary.
ig A r . B. Private tuition as usual.
* Junc 3 law
Twenty Dollars Reward.
— D AN iwa > - this morning from the Subscriber, livine
~ : l " t le ' OUat >'. o / Mbnmouth, New-Jersey, a remark
ably black Negro Man, named BEN—about 40 vears of
=t, "S e < 5 feet 9or 10 inch« high, flout made, b»ld on the
Et , crown of his head ; had -.n and took with hirii a grev
at homespun coa-,>; coat and jacket, a brown cloth coat,
_ with a black collar, homespun tow shirts and trowfers,
,f. with other shirts and small cloaths wb ch cannot be euu
_ meratcd. Hc .s a complaifaOt, artful and deceitful fellow,
.V, ?° CVer W ' U[> and fecurc thc laid Runaw.iv, so'
,al that hit. owner may him again, shall have the above re
ward, and-rcafonable charges paid if brought home.
*' EHJIm Lawrance.
- Ju'y Aug., §2w
forty dollars"reward.
a \. Ran away,
he " ,oth . A P ril last ' a NEGRO MAN, named
or ,T . a s ed about 39 years—about 5 feet 6 inches
>th ' &>gers on one of his hands very much contraA-
Whoever will return said negro to the fubferiber, liv
ing ,n SufTex county, state of Delaware, shall .ecdve the
' X r 7 RALPH ROBINSON.
" AU " ' •**
City of Waihington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, \ T o.I!
' FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent ) 20,000 dollars, & )
dwelling-house, > 3® °00, 2r e )
I ditto 15,000 & calk 25,000 40,000
t ditto 15,000 & cash 15,000 30,000
1 ditto 10,000 & cafii 10,000 20,c00
x ditto 5,000 & cam 5,000 io.occ.
I ditto 5,, 000 & ca(h 5,000 10,000
1 cadi prize of io,oco
2 do. 5,000 each, are, * 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000'
20 do. 500 • - 10,000
00 do. 100 - - 10,000
200 do. 50 ro.ooo
400 do. 25 - - 10,000
1,000 do. so - 20,000
15,000 do. 10 - *50,000
16,739 Prizes.
33,261 Blanks.
50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 40,0000
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prize of 40,000 dollars will be the l„st drjwn
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either mom v
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be rtceive, 1 . lor
any number not lef6 than 30 tickets.
This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri
vate buildings to be erected in the City of Waihington,—
Two beautiful designs are already fel-iled for the entire
fronts on two of the public squareS ; from these prawings
it ii proposed to erecl twf> centre and sou* corner buildj
as fuon as possible actor this.lottery is fold, and to C 911." y
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventursrs, in
the manner described jn the scheme for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the necessary expenses of printing, &c. and the surplus
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
Univeriity, to be erected within the city-ot Waihington. ■
The Drawing w ill commence as soon as the tickets are
fold off.—The money prizes will be payable in thirty days
after it is finifh.id ; and any prizes for which fortunate
numbers are not produced within twelve months after the
drawing is closed, are to be considered as given towards
: the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
! the whole business in a rear from the elding of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given as security.
• The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
3re held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at more than half the a
mourtt ot the lattery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commifiioners afftfled in the management of tin
Hotel Lottery are requefled to undertake thi» arduous taHc
a second time on behalf of the public ; a fufficicnt num.
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob-'
jefls may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets
have been sent for sale, the public are allured that the
drawing will speedily commence, and that the car. and
caution unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of
thi tickets, has rendered the inc r fufpeufion indilpenl'able.
SAMUEL BLODGET.
,§, Tickets may be had at the B<ink of ColumSia ; of
James Weft &Co. Baltimore ; of Peter Gi'.niirn, Bofto");
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Walls,
Cooper's Ferry.
University of Pennsylvania,
July i 6, 1796*
'X'HE Summer Vacation will take place on Monday next,
the 18 h inft. and continue for Four weeks.—Thediffer
ent Schools with the fcveral Tutors will accordingly re
aflemblc on Monday, the 15th day of Au^uft,
By the Faculty, Wm. Rogers, Sec'y.
For sale by the fubferibers,
IN J-ENN-STREET,
130 quarter Cheits frefh Hyson Tea;
roo ditto do. frefh Souchong Tea;
300 Boxes China, containing fniall tea setts ct 42
pjeces;
400 pieces Ban-dan oes.
Willings 1$ Francis.
January 30 jtaw.
Lottery
FOR raising fix thousand fix hundred and sixty-seven
' dollars and fifty, cents, by a dedu&ion of fifteen per
cent from the prizes, and not two blanks to a prize, viz.
I Prize of 5060 dollars is dollars 5000
I xooo 1000
t 500 500
J 200 , . lOCS
40 100 4COO
99 jo 49.W
200 25 5 009
2000 10 20,000
5 Last drawn numbers of >1000 dollars each, jooc
2332 Prize's. 44.4J0
4018 Blanks.
6350 Tickets at Seven Dollars each, 44,45 s
By order of the Directors of the Society for eftablifi -
tng Ufeful Manufactures, the fuperintendants of the Pa'
erfon Lottery hive rcauefted the Managers to offer tl
foregoing S«heme to the public, and have directed the .
to refund the money to those persons who have purchaf d
in the former Lottery, f or exchange the tickets for tick.;
in this Lottery••
The lottery has adually commenced drawing, and v
continue until finilhed. A lift of the Blinks and Pri
may be seen at the office c! William Blackburn, No.
south Second street, who will give information where ti
ets may be procured.
r Dated this 17th day of June, 1796.
J. N GUMMING, ■)
f JACOB R. HARDEN BERG, f Manage-.
• JONATHAN RHEA, , 3
June 18 ' ei
" yv--.,- _
V
. To be Sold,
. At No. 128, North Second-Street, and by fevera <jj
5 the Apothecaries in this City.
- ''TRANSFERS of the right to remove jrjinMkiwUjinan^
■* tions from the human body, as.secured to pr. EM;
PERKINS, by patent, wii|i inftrumentsand direction* -
ccflary for the practice. This mode of treatment. is par.J
larly ufeful in relieving pains in the head, face, teeth, >>i
fide, stomach, back, rheumatifims, recent gouts, See. &c.
Notwithstanding the utility of this praflice, it is not -
fumed but there are cases in which this and every
remedy may fometimcs fail.
j June 18, 1 j
s ——*»»■—mm 1 tiWfcjnTCTßßß—acr iiwii—ill wm tpri t
PRINTED BY JOHN FENN
~ —No. 119 —
' CHESSUT-STHEJT.
[Priac Eight Dollars per Ancsna.]