• , -
of the &tlitoTj & Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
, SATURDAY* EVENING, AUGUST 6, .'796. X.
tfIiMBEK 1220.] -— * —
-. ■ ■■ ■ ■ ■!■■■' "•" /-» 1 • 1 . /"*!_ _ .... I T../1 A !.. 1 P n *
Take Notice,
THAT the Subferiber intends to rnace applies
tion For the renewal of a Certificate, No. 1609, /
tor 4poal dollars, dated the I 4& Detember, 1795 .tearing
interest at j A per cent from rft January, 179?> '** £
'jarneof Df.vid Dunderdale & Co. of Leeds, m York- ,
ihire, merchants. The fame isfappofed to have been kW - u
on its way to New Vorlf, under cover to Bbecker & so
Much, of that placc, pnthe 6tn of January lalt-
Thomas M'-Euan. - wl
Philadelphia, aid Tune. !Tt;6.; 6vv ■-
bates of India Goods.
The Cargo »f thelhip Ganges, capt. Tingey, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CO NSTSTIN O OF T
A Large and general afiTortment of Bengal and Madras J
COTTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH A*E
A variety fine worked and plain Mu/lins,
Doreas, t?fe. Alio,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar,
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
yJ
Willings Francis, .3
No. II Penn Street. ™
June 8 £_
E L E P H, A N T.
This Ar.imal if to be seen in High-Street, between
the T, nth and ths Eleventh-Street. "
HE will positively leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep- 5
tembcr, for Baltimore, in his way to Charlei'ton, J
■where he will win'er.
ADMi ITANCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar V.
The PANORAMA, or th« VIEW of the CfTfES cf m
LONDON apd WESTMINSTER, dy
Is to be open till the loth of September, and the fub
je& will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE
PHANT.
ADMITTANCE for the FANORAMA,
One quarter of a Dollar.
August 3- 1_
A well-finiftied, commodious i
HOUSE *
For Sale, and immediate possession given, j,
SITUATE on the north fide of Spruce-street, Na. 111,
between Fourth and Fifth ftreeU. The house, piazza
and back buildings are three (lories in height, and pet s eAs
ly well adapted for the accommodation of a Urge family,
as they contain twelve good rooms, exchifive of twoc;el
ed garrets. In the yard, which is neatly paved, there art
a two pumps | one in a rain ciilem, the other o. as good ■.
water as any in the city 1 The cellars are dry and large.
The terms of payment will be easy : a greac part of tin g"
■urchafe-money in all probabilitj may lay for years on in- ( ■>
tereft. Apply at No. 109, next deor eastward. Vl
July 3° _JlT f
Philadelphia, WeQ-Chefter, Strajburgh.
Lane after, Tork and Frederick-town ■
STAGES.
THE proprietors of the above Stages, return their best ■ Ie
thanks to their friends and the publi; in general for .
tfee encouragement received in this line of business, andbeg J
leave to inform the public, that they arc determined to run 6<
their stages through from Philadelphia to Lancajte; in A
0110 <day, commencing on Tuesday, the 14th July instant,
in the following manner,—viz. A Stage will, set out on
that da-'at 4 o'clock in the morning, from the house of
George Weed, Market-street, Philadelphia, and run by
the way of Weftcncfter and Strafburgh arrive is} Lancas
ter the fame evening, on Friday morning run to Wright's
ferry and exch.-.ngc passenger? with the York and Frecjej
ick-town (lage, return and arrive in Philadelphia on Sat- o;
urday, and on Monday morping following-, at 4 o'clock, f
said ft age will set out from tlie said George Weed's, Phila
delphia, and arrive at Lancaster the fame tvening, on
Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out from the house
of Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive ill Philadelphia 1
the fame evening, and will commerce again on Thursday
morning following, and continue every week—The price
for each paffeng r from Philadelphia to Lancaster i? three
dollars anil, a half, tpYork, four dollars and three quar
tets to Frederick town eight dollars, the like sums for
150 weight baggage, with the usual allowance •<" 14 lb.
gratis to"each palfenger, and 5 pence a mile for- all way
paflengers. 3° —§4 W
John Reilly,
George Weed.
lufurance comp. of the state of
Pennsylvania.
The Directors have dcelared a dividend cf sixteen dol
lars on Sach fliare of the capital of said company, for the
lad fix months which will be paid to the stockholders or 1
iheii legal reprefentauves on every day after the loth
isftant.
4 S. W. Fijher,
Secretary.
August 1. diot.
UNITED STA7ES, J Sa
Pennsylvania District, 5
Notice is hereby given,
Tl> AT pu rfuant'to a Writ to me directed, from the ho
• norable Richard Peters, Efqnirc, Judge of the Di
ftriil Court ol the United States in and for the Pennsylva
nia Diftridt,
Will be ezpofed to Sale,
at the Custom-House, on Monday, the 15th day of Au
-3 Bags of COFFEE
1 Bhl. SUGAR
J Half do. do;
2 Do. dtv TAMARINDS
3 K«jjs do..
3 Bags of Sngar and
3 Do. Coffee
The fame having beca libelkd against. prosecuted, and
condemned as forleited, in the said court-
WILLI/VM NICHOLS, Marshal.
Marthal's Office, 30th July, 1796.
Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
Including the Northisn Libkhtips and d:ftri<ft of
SOyTHV/AK K ;
Pu!)lilhed, and fold bv
BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High street,
(Price one dollar.)
THIS plan is 26 inclie; fqtiare,-and hn<: been en
griveii Ir: o- e. of the firil artihVin the city, frofli ajate
S'.kl ac. 1 ate farvev. .Purckafers are entitled to a pam
•chltr with plar., giving " forne account of the
vtvf in •lojwfetion, trade, government,
• July zc) ' ri &f ,r
KJ jfX M. U X V 4J. A- ilil'Vl
For Sale, Freight, or Charter,
• The Schooner I
ML. ANGELICA, f t
hundred and twenty tons bv*then—
v_/ fix months old, a staunch, faithf illy- ,
\iilt, fad-failing vessel, haadfomely finilhed off, ami well
found iu evety narticnlar. Por terms apply to
B. RHODES,
O* board said schooner, lying at BickUy aild BoWen's
wh*rf, the firft above Market-nreet.
WBllt THESE ARE TOR SAI.E,
A few half-bbls• Prime Mess Beef.
July 14 * :
Jamaica Spirits
JUST arrived, and will be landed on Monday next, a
few puncheons high proof Jamaica Spirits.
For Salt by
James Brown,
No. 119 South Second-street.
Who offers for Sale or Charter,- Or
MA R 1,
BUHTOEN about 800 barreln, 16 months
old and well found. * u g: 3 If 4t
For Sale,
Or for Charter tothe Wefl-Indies, _
THE SHIP
C E R p: S, i
*»£■?£ Philadelphia Built, pol
OF Live Oak and Red Cedat, burthen about 3500 bar» all
rels, now discharging at Latimer's wharf. I'his vef- he|
fel is in excellent repair, well fouud-and will bear a tho- °. ul
fiughibcaminatico. •" aXcu^rg'.-trv,ai"Be. 1
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to
John Vaughan.
July »8 f_
FoTJEREMIE,
schooner Hope,
Brig Bet'iey.
HEY are faft-faiHng vessels, and have elegant accommo
dations. For palTage only, apply to
Richard & James Potter,
1 Aug. 5 5 "No- 8 north Front-flreet.
. for Sale or Charter,
THE SNOW Fo ,
BiJRTHKis a.-out aooo Bbls. of flonr—fhe may be sent pi
tc lea at a small expertce, her fails and rigging being in of;
very gpod order —apply to , , C.i
James Campbell, or
Geerge Latimer • I ho
April iQi, §
Just Arrived, •
In the (hip Molly, John Frost, Master, fronr Liverpo*)l,
' Bufliels Best fine ftoved SALT,
1 600 Bushels CO -iL,
, And 118 Crates of QUSENS WARR affonrf'.,,
FOR SALE «V <1"
Philip Nicklin & Co.
' S. B. THE S." ID
• molly,
s ¥S for SALE or CHARTER; (he is 5
A years old, Philadelphia built, of white pj.
oak, was well faked and carries about 4300 barrels of Flour.
For terms apply at above.
; J"'yg 3 . d.f
? This Day commenced I-anding, i
a At \ ilSins vrjiarf, the cargo of the Brig X.ucy and Sloop' 1-
St. Jago, from St. JagodeCuba—confuting of
c White and Brown Box SUGAR. hi
, e MOLASSES, of an excellent quality. w
r COFFEE. e\
, r HIDES and HONEY. Also, w
i> For Sale or Charter.
' y The hri Z LUCY '
\ (lout, strong vessel, will carry a-
hout 1200 barrels, and may goto ""
1 1 s ea with a very fmallexp nfe.
The above will be fold for cash or approved notes, ft
f Samuel Emery, u
No. 64, fotith Second-street.
July a;, 796. > dtf - t]
J - Landing
Dr From on board tht Nancy, William Belcher, mas-
th ter, from Boutdeaux, a cargo, confiftir.jr of—
360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET, j
232 Cases of 24 bottles each CLARET, a
286 do. of 24 do. WHITE WINE,
BRANDY, SWEET OIL, and f
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS, '
For Sale by
F. Coppinger.
0- J"'y *3- ±L
For Sale,
1 \ Three story BRICK HOUSE and Lot, in Chefnut
J~\- street, between Flint and Second flrsets, in which e
MefTrs. James Calbraith 6c Co. have for many years (and t
'** now do) carried on business. f
Poffeflien will be given in one month, or sooner. ;
For terms apply to WILLIAM .BELL, or ]
HECTOR CALBRAITH. 1
April %l. ._§ <
Wm. HOLDERNKSSH, !
nd No. 76 High Street,
HAS received, by the latest arrivals from Europe and (
tbe'Eaft Indies, a well fele«slcd aflortment of Silk
Mercery, Linen Drapery and Habere!afiiery Goods; which
— he will fell, Wholcfale and Retail, on the lowest terms ;
AMONGST WHICH ARE,
of Some fine India with gold and fHver
Sv.perfineßook, Jaconet, and Mulmul'ditto
Do do do ' do Handkerchiefs
Sortie extra black tafFetics,lut.efl:ringsand colored Pcrfians •
Bandano Handkerchiefs
1.0n<7 and lhort Nankeens
Mantu.is of the firft quality
Damask table linen and napkins, very fine
ate Silk Hosiery, an elegant affortnunt
ro Thead and cotton do
the • Umbrellas—green silk, oil*d do. and do cloth
French cambrics, vqry fine
f Irlfh Linens, do. &c. scc. June 14 §
1 I 111 ■ ■ , ■
Just Arrived
Inth brig Betsey, from Jeremie, and for sale by
the-f'jbicdl-iers. j; t j
Forty thousand wt. of ver)- prime Coffee Ne
, i<i hogfheidsand bags
And. in the schooner Hap?, from New Orleans
1 BEEF
COTTON -
HIDES and
! LOGWOOD.
A liberal credit will be given for Approved Notes.
Richard and Tames Potter. _ ,
jui y >7 . dtf i:
Just Arrived, . 1
In the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick>mafter from Li
verpool, "T"
5000 Bnfbels SALT ; V
100 Crates QUEENS WARE; and tw
An Afibrtment of SHIP CHANDLERY; ' a l
F O R S A L E tor
On board, at Pine-llreet wharf. Apjily to
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
s April 19. r f
DUTY OH CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an aft of Congress of the United
Slates of America, palled at Philadelphia, the «Bih day
of Mav» 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey
ance of perlons, anH repealing the former acts for that pur«
pose.—That there ftiall be levied, collected and paid, udojh
all carriages for the conveyanec of persons, which shall be
. kept by or for any person, for his or her own use, 01 to let
„ out to hire, or for the convey ing of l he fevgralidu
upon eve»y Cbariot, 12 dols. t^l<
oponevery Post Chariot, it dols<
upon every Post Chaise, 12 dols. Q '
upon Phaeton, with or withotlt top, gdols no
upon every Coachee, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work above, dr.
, with blinds, glafles or curtains, 9 dols. th<
upon four wheei carriages, having framed polls and
topi with fleet springs, 6 dols.
Upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
' fpriugt or jacks, 3 dols.
upon curriclcs tops, 3 dols.
upon chaises with tops, 3 dols.
upon chairs with tops, 3 dols.
upon fulkie> withtqps, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriage*, with steel or iron springs, _
S dols. U]
For and upon all oiher two wheel carriages, 2 dols.
upon c-vcry four wheel carriage, having framed polls j
and tops, and reftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dois.
The Cojle&Or* of the Rcvcnut ot the firil turvev of the
I Diflriftof Pennsylvania, attend: daily, Until the 30th day
1 of'Septembcr next, for the purpose of receHnng the duties on
Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or SafTafra® street, in the City
ot Philadelphia', at the house of Daniel S. Clair, Etq in the
County of Montgomery ; and at the of Abraham Du- 1
hois, E'Cq. in the County of Bucks; of which all pertpns pbtf *
fcfi'ed ot such Carriages are defued to take notiee. i"'
" . Notice is also given,,
TO all rrfail dealers in Wmes, and foreign diftiUed fpiri- aj
tuous liquors,that licences will be granted to thern ; one li p (
, oenct for carrying on the business ol retailing of Wines, in a
IcfiCjuaAtity, or iu lef» quantities ihar go gallons—-and one
ieeoce foi carrying on the btifinels of retailing Spirituous li
qwrs :n Icfs rjuaikities than so gallons, at the fame lime arid
ir ihe lame placcs, b ( y the officers legally authorized to grant L
ucli licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS, W
1 Infpcftor of the Revenue of the firft lurvey A
of the Pennf) lvania.
h Office of lnfpcfiion,at ) e , 3°
e Philadelphia,. 21 ft July, 1796 )
Twenty Dollars Reward.
WAS STOLEN, last evening, fromHhc pasture of the
fubferiber, a black Rockingham GKLDINfJ, 15 r
,p l-a hands high, has a- star, and iome white under his
throat, (the part being formerly chafed) ;has a leather on
his neck, the mane on the near fide, his foot-locks fretted
with a clog, and is a horse of much bone and size. Who-
ever secures him with the thief, shall have the above rc-
ward, or for the Horse alone a very generous compenfa- _
tion. JOHN LAWRENCE.
July 7 , eo ** t ,
TAKE NOTICE, -
"-pHAT application will be made for the renewal of 1
X the following certificates, ifliied by Joseph Nourfe,
Rpgifter of the Treasury, in the name of Roger Grif
wold, Esq.. of IVorwich, Conneilicut—
1 certificate, fix per cent domestic flock, No. 13,907 f|
—dated the 17th December, 1795, bearing interest from e
- the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65-100ddo- t
I ditto, three per cent, domestic flock, No. 10,682 f.
r —dated December 16, 1795. bearing interest from the v
firft day of January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dollars. t
1 ditto, deferred flock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th t
December, 1795, bearing interest from the firft Janu- c
ary, 1801, for 798 83-100 dollars.
Said certificates are fuppoled to hive been loft or
fto'.en in this cltv some time in December or January
last.
JOSEPH THOMAS,
No. 59, North Fror.t-ftreet.
Philadelphia, July al, 1796. d6w.
— A Country Seat to be lold >
ABOUT seven acres and a half of land near the three
mile (lone on the road leading to Gray's gardens and
ich extending withagentle declivity fromthe said road to the
nd river Schuylkill—on which are ereifted, a convenient
frame house suitable for a tenant, a frame barn and liable,
a large Brick House forty-eight, feet front, two stories
high, a very elegant piazza fronting the river, the whole
breadth of the house supported with turned pillars, floor
i ed with cedar plank, commanding an exteftfive and pic
turesque view of the Middle Bridge, Gray's Oardens, the
Seat of Wm. Hamilton, Esq. the Turnpike Road and
Canal. The improvements are all the .ground
, conveniently divided and inclosed by new cedar fences.
!?jf For terms apply at No. iji Market-street,
ich J ut >' V — *A±-
; FOR SALE,
WINE, London particular Madeira, 4 yeariold,
vel in pipes and hogsheads
Claret, genuine old, in cases
Gin, 111 pipes, from Holland
Earthen Ware, in crates
Basket Salt, in hoglheads
Shot, Nos. 6, 7, 1 and 9
Bar Lead, Red and white dry lead
Steel, Germar and Ruflia, in barrels
Anchor', cables, junk, bunting, tarpolia canvas,
Tin piates—All invoice Stationary, by
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
§ July 79 S
To BE Lft,
A large convenient Are- story Brtck-Houfe, pkafantly
situated, on the weft fide of Second-Street, eppofite to the
New-Market; now in the occupation ofilenry Clvmer
Apply to
William Bin?bam.
T I O
July *7- »t. ' ■{
CABLES, .
Fromi6 to 9 J inches, for sale by
Jeremiah Warmer,
J»lyi2 | Mo ia north Third-ilrect.
VVafhmgton Canal Lottery,
No. I. J
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has luthcrifed
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpefe of cut-ins'
a Canal through the City of Washington, from th iPo
tomacto theEaftern Blanch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Viz ■-I Prize ot ac.oco dollars, jo coo
I ditto 10.000 . io'qoq
7 latk drawn 7
Tickets, each j 5,000 35.c00
6 ditto 1,000 6000
10 t. tta 400 4>coo
ao ditto 100 5 cco
jj ditto to 3 7f#
j?jo ditto ia 6 " g
To be raised for the Canal, a 6,250
"" _ >
5 Bjo Prizes, irj,ooo
il6jo Blanks, not two to a prize.
, ■ 'I-? 00 tickets, at Ten Dollars, - 17y , Q00
qyired by the aforefaid aft for the punctual payment of'
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
dalay, as loon- as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
nQtice will be given.
Such prizes -as are not demanded in fix months after th*
drawing is finifhed, shall be confidercd as relinquilhed for
the benefit of the Canai, and appropriated accordingly::
(Signed j NO.TLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, ofEk
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm M. ISUNCANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Waihingtoh, Feb. 11. § '
UNITED STATES,
Pennsylvania District, j
! IN THE NAME AND BY THE AUTHORITY
: OF THE UNITED STATES,
By IrILLIAM NICHOLS,
1 Marfbal of the Pennsylvania DiHrift,—
: APROCLAMATIO.N. ,
WHEREAS the Congress of the United States, at
the ftrflfefKon of the fourtk Congress, to wit, on
ihe twelfth day of Maylaftpaft, pafled an aft, to r peal
so much of an Aft, intituled " an aft to efiabhfh the
Judicial Courts oi the United the
alternate fefiion g of the Circuit Court for the Diftrift of
a Pennsylvania, flull be holden at Yorktown ; and for other
purposes, in the follow ing voids, to w.t.
_ Fourth Congress of the United States :
j At the firft fefiion, begun an ' !.Ud at the city of Phila
t delphia, in the State of Pennf/lvania. on Monday, the
Teventh of December, one thousand seven hundred and
nine y-five. 1
yr An Aft to repeal so mucb of an aft, intituled "an aft to
efl rtblifh the judicial courts of tin; United States", asdi
fefts that alternate fed!oils of the said circuit court (or
the diftrift of Pennsylvania. (hall be holden at York
town ; and for other pur; ofes.
Sect. I. BE it enacted- by the.Senate and House of Re
presentatives of the United States of America, in Con
gress assembled, That so much of the £fth feftiorrof the
? aft, intituled "an aft to eftabliQi the judicial courts of-'
n the United States", as directs tliat alternate feffians of tlie
d circuit court for the diftrift of Pennsylvania (ball be hold- '
ert at Yorktown, be, and the fame is hereby repealed; •
and that all the feffior.s of the said circuit court shall, from
and after the passing of this aft, be holden a: the city o£
Philadelphia, excepting only, when at any fefiion of the -
said court, the judges thereof shall direst the next fefiion
— to be holden at Yorktown ; which they arefeereby authn->
rized and empowered to do, whenever it fball appear to
3 f them to be necessary.
e Ssft. 11. And be it further enacted, That all such pro
cess of the said court, as may have ilTued before the pas»- -
ing of this aft,, and all.recognizances returnable, and all
suits and other proceedings that were continued to the -
said circuit court for the diftrift of Pennsylvania, on-the -
"P eleventh of October next, in Yorktown, (hall now here
' tsrned, and held continued, to the fame court, cn the
• 2 fame day, at Philadelphia. An<J to the end that suitors.
3e witnesses, and all others concerned, may have noticfe of
the alteration hereby made, the Marshal of the said dif
th trift is hereby required t» make the fame known, by pro-
II- clamation, on or before the firft day of Auguftnext.
Jonathan Dayton,
or Speaker of the House of P eprefentatives.
"y Samuel Livermqre,
President of the Senate, pro tempore.
Approved, May the twelfth, 1796, /
George Washjncton,
President of the United States,
p Dcptrfited among the Rolls, in the Office of the Depart
-1 ment of State,
. ee , Timothy Pickering,
m l Secretary of State.
he I DO HEREBY MAKE KNOWN, that ail such
, nt process of the said court as has, or may,be issued, end all
j e recognizances returnable at Torttnvn aforefai,d, *on tlfe eU
;eB ven'tt day if Ofitber next, will be returned to the Circuit of
o j e the United States, at the City Hall, in the city of Phila
)r_ delphia, onTuifday, the rievr»t'i day of October next, at
; c _ eleven o'clock in the forenoon, A®d that all fnitsand other
the proceedings that were cintinued to the said court at York
ind 'own, will be held and continued at the said Circuit
in( j Court, at Philadelphia/ on the faille Eleventh day of Octo
ber next, of which all persons concerned are desired to
take notice, arid give their attendance thereat.
t GIVSN under my hand, at my office, in the Diftrift
— of Pennsylvania, the twenty-seventh day of July,
inthe year of our V-ord one thousand seven hun
ild, dred and ninety-fix, and of our Independence the
twehty-firft.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,.
Marj/S'ql.
July a* * }.vr
Board & Lodging in the Country. >
A Single Gentleman may be aeeommodatsd with bo"r,
and lodging nsar GerraantoWn, with the use of
liable, and grufs for one or two ht>rfes : as an bl*
society is the chief object, the terms will h. made petlcftr
ly easy. Enquire »f the Printer as tbe Gaffettj.
Aujuft 4 jtP R 1 G E S ~ch R R E N T.
Philadelphia, August 6.
" IC ° "***■ <*• *
'g-«STA •' X
' P--.C/, 150 o''«. won
, A r*> — Aw -cefff, 9 .
1> ',Tu 6r lb 10 S»«/, «'» ' :et
r/ r I! flaJls,perbox, to tem
I 60 ditto ba/lets, 12 way
W «», 40/fW> 7 n
TT T\! 8° 'Spermaceti pr gall 106
Brar.iletto, per ton, i«. l 8
f' f M ' , I JVhale, per gal. 35 fe < r
Br t;/°%T » IY> 1
Won, per in. 25° j; a u
"7Jf , U
Sc 7 n l"'7l'el"ht. Pitch,perbbl. 3 s<? B " f
'?-&/? I 6o A* P" dra
& Lm ,er.ounty, 19 of j
perMfeet 30 Ca „.. W , 16 ft; j
—•&"*** 3 " h
Oaf, rrr T , out
VTefchantabltpine, 28 . „ lor
Sa 4 A. 18 . *<¥"'. HfP* r tc s " lon
— Maho^ani,fir.font *?'"" g
T he above arethefha,<o„ D '"° T , 5 V
*ri«», for the sari Rice, per cWt. J
■ j ' • Rosin per bcrral 5 5°
pr.ee frice, add rL, Jamaica, pr gal. I 67 ver
„ far : 33 '» f; 154 P n
*»»/&»' » 61 IVinrhvard I 40
. »;/ ■ ■ -'Barbados 1 *7 on
Beef.Mon, perbllyllaT* _
Country,ditto 14 —— Country, NZ- 97 j
FreJt.cwt. St>* Saltpetre, per cwt. 5°
«. w ,_ A , r /i l 8 i lO Saffafres, per ton
Sutter per lb. 6o f.J
. ~ '"el.' her lb 56 S<«', German, per lb. 14 si
Card'es Sperm, per lb. 5 R
rr« *° —American, per ton 133 33
r 1 nrii iiii r 1
c«, Eneliji,ptr lb. »8 s«ap, br*v>nptr lb. 12 an
——Country II «13 —White 14 ot !
«i 7 C f i/s ' *? rei
Cinnamon 66 S ' ar f . . ,
C/» WI I i° Snuff,pr J,z bottle, «
ter rwt. Spermaceti refncd pr lb. la'
Cofee, per'b. if to 1% Sail cloth, EngHJb. No. to
Coal, ter hufhel, 3° 54° I, per yard, 33 an
Copperas, per civt. 3 Boßon, No. 1, A. 3°
Cordage, American,per No.t,io.
c-wt. l6ilß Sugar,.lump, per lb. 15
«o# OT , fer /J. 33 *» 40 Loaf,ftngle res. »7
Currant, 10 -Ditto double ditto ad
Duel, RuJJia,perp\ese,tsM Havmnat, ■white- lO cc
It 50 Ditto brown 16 [q
Dutch Sail Duel 24 —MufiovaJop.cwt.TlaK 67
per lb. 66 £<7/ /«&, />r. "
Jf/jx, ditto II T 4 66 t
jplaxfeed, per bujhel 6<\ Sp. Turpentine pr gall. 66 P
flour. Slip, per barrel 16 JO 5«//. atfam, pr bujhcll 66 0 j
Common, 9 I-» a 1° —Liverpool j6
1 ifiur middlings, bcß, 8 —Cadix c p
——Meal, Indian 4 J° —Ljjbcti 63
4 J° building IV. Q. If
' slip fluff per cwt. 333 frames pet ton tl 67 o
per ton, . Ditto I.iv'e Oat, 16
Gin, Holland per cafe, 7 50 Do. Red Cedar pr foot d
2>o. per gall.' I 9 L 3 Shingles 18 inches,pr
Glue, per evut. M- 4
G Ditto T.fect 7 t
Ditto, common 16 Ditto 3 feet dressed 16 c
Ditto, ground 24 Staves, pipe pr lOGO, 60 f.
Grftrrg, per lb. 30 white-oalhogshead 4J 33 . (
Gunpowder, cannon,per Red oal ditto 28
qr. cafe, 13 —Leogan 26 33 P
Ditto, fine glazed, 28 Barrel 28 I!
Grain,iVheetprbufhl.sOal Heading 44 r
. g V e, I Stiff Otter,beflfr piece 3 33
- 1 1 Oats, 60 —-Minis 26 .
Indian Corn, 9° a 93 —Fox, grey 20 Jo 54
Barlev. I »° —Ditto red I 20
beP.fhelle3pr.lb. —Martins < JO r
Buclwheat per —Fibers 5; (
, bujiel, 75 —Sear, 3 ,
Hams, pr.'lb. 13 —Racoons 60
H'.mb, imported, per —Mvfk-rats, 37
i O n H 3CO' —Beaver, per lb. I 62 1
American, perlb lO —Deer, in hair *5 a 33 v
Herrings, per bbl. 6 *Tar, N-fcrj.%4 g*U. \
fit<fes, raw pr lb. St» 9PP r bbl. .
Hops 9 —Carolina, it gall. »
Jiorfuad loops per M. 30 Turpentine, per bbl. 320
Jndigo, French perlb. 1 67: Tobacco, J. River bef
— ,1.1 Carolina, I 100ib. y a % j
Irons, fait pr ton 133 33 . Peterfkurg 6j6 JO ]
Xron, caflvigs ptr_ twt. 4 Potrwmae 3« J
_ Pennfylv.bar scarce 113 33 Georgia 6a 7
Rufjia per ton 97 Carolina 4a 5
_/>,*£- Jl Tea Hyson , per lb Ito % 1
Sheet, '224 33 —Hyjbn jlin, 83 f
Nail rods, 118 IJ —Souchong, Ii I 13 (
perewt. S —Congo, 5°..
Lard, hogs per lb. 14 —Bohca, 35-
Leadinpigs, per cwi. 533 Tallow, res ned, per lb. 14
7 Tin, per box 16 JO ,
a >3 33 Mani la, perlb' 20 524
• i r<i/, 9 VerdSgreafe, do. v I
Leather, foal per lb. 22 fermilli.n, X JO
Lignum vita: per'm, 24 Varnifb, per gallon,
Logwood, 40 /fa*, per lb. 33 '
Mace, perlb. tl IVla/s-bone, !eng,pr lb. 11 I
Macla'rel, lefi per bbl 12 Win*, Madeira pr p. 116
p fcr d 8 Lifion, 126 (
Madder, bef pcrfL 40 Tcncrijfc,prgal. 70 ,
Marble wroughtprffrt 60 Fayal, 67
A/or/ T/Sari A'«o 60 Port per pipe 150 '
Mohfles, per gall. 56J62 Do. in bott.pr doz
Mufard, per lb. 46 Claret,pertajl e,otoSO (
-four, in bottles. Sherry, ter gallon I 50 ,
psr dozen, I 10. Malaga, 84
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
On London, at 30 days, per £.1 to fieri, par. ,
.... —- at 60 days, par 165 l-» ,
at 90 days, 161 a 16a 1-2
Ajriftifdani, 60 daysj per guilder, 42
onda-j. j
l' AiiL JO NEbT~ •
INFORMATION is hereby giv«n v that the late John
Paul Jones was a proprietor of site (hares (amount- 1
jngtoahout 5867 icres) in atraft of land purchaftd by
the Ohio Company, in the territory of the United States' t
' of AET.crica, north-well of the river Ohio; and that his <
heirs, or legal repreftntative, on application to the direc
tors of Cud company,at Marietta in the territory afore
laid, will receive a ckt<j of the laid five lhares, or rights
of Und.
The application may be made prrloiially or by an agent, (
>ut iVoplr docuuienti raofl be produced to prove the s
Claimant oi' chimmcs the legal heirs or reprefeutative of £
the said Jones
N.B. 4sit is not Vaown in wfcat country the perion '
orpcrfonsintereacdrefiOe.it will he anafi of benevolence 5
in every Printer in America arid Europe, who lhall insert t
this advertisement in fcis papier. (
In behalf of thedire&ors of the Ohio Company,
RUFUS i'UTKAM. 1
-.«./ ft 1 t
Foreign Intelligence. yj
Frew late Ettpltfh Papers. S'"
A fccond Cock-lane GHoii bas for several days aec
and night, pall, played it. jyWßly al °
irirg houfc, No j6, Ncwcaftle-cnurt, Butcher ro«. ad
['he difference between this and the Cock lane 101
dow is, that it appears in propria cat
woman lodger declared, that (be was ready to nv.se He;
fcet davj, that (he had hold of bis coat, and at- rat
tempted to stop him, but (he inttantly fainted a the
Wa Tl.i» ridiculous btifi Cfshai made some noise i« eve
the neighbourhood, and the affair has been lr»nj ,
fcired to Bow itrcet to be invetUgated. J. fir
The chimney sweepers rpprentices decked in the \V
t;audv ai 4»glittering paraphernalia of their older, an<
had on Monday their annual fete in Mr.- Monta- spa
g ue'. garden ; they ate their beef and pudding, an e d
drank their ale with agujlo, that their fupertor. K le
might envy,andafterhavingenhaledcopious dwugbts, ma
'of Britijb Burgundy, received their yeirly fee of a
(hilling each, withont those degrading condition.
: which being fv.metimes tacked to the annual fees of ha
1. out high character., give their falaric iliong fytnp- dei
toras of bribery and corruption. j°'
His mnjelly has been very lticcefsful this season lat
as a grefzier, having fed some well bred Hereford- tir
, Jh'tre Oxen up to the weight of 175 stone on tlie a- Pe
* veraffe, and for which he obtained th« top market nit
1 p r ' ces - . , t !"
3 A new creation of Peers takes place immediately clc
' 00 the prorogation of Pailiament ; and the folliiw- th<
ing gentlemen are to receive that hinour, viz. Mr. qu
Pieirepoint, ltr John Rous, I-ord Btoome, son of co
Maiquis Coriiwailis, the hon. Chatles 1 ownflienil,
4 Basset, the earl of Galiowav, Mr. M 4
4 Kensie of Seafotth, Sec. Sec.
3 TK« diffi.liition of uatliam<?Bt is fliortly eigfft
f (d • CsiiUld3'ei ire nfn,l ■ M
2 and Borough-Jobbers their ufoa! offers. Amongrt ta ]
4 other curiout advertisements 011 this orcafiori, we
g read the offer ef a pfrphtual seat in parlia
ment —that of a borough in the Weft of Eng- -tn
laud, 44 which contains one hundred and fifty Elec- til
tor. : a. the town hat lately been con'fumed by-fire, a fl
3 and three fourth, of the electors are poor indigent vc
people, it is presumed that the building 7.0 or 80 >
j cottages, of about 40 {hilling* per yeat rent, would m
17 effeAually lecurc 4 ieat for the Borough."—The A
adverufer very properly adds, 44 this will be an ex- d (
l ® cellewt speculation foi monied men." Some of the ei
loan-contractors furily cannot do better than mnke lo
the purchase, as they may probably indemnify them- G
56 fives, by the profits of a future loan, and Mr jp
56 Piit vii'l, we doubt not, remember eve ty exertioh
of this kir.d with becoming gratitude.
k c About 70 men of the 20th regiment Unded at
Plymouth on Tuesday latt from on board a tran
sport lately arrived from the Wcft-Jnflies. Many
67 of them are in 39 unhealthy state. They are the ei
remains of 700 fine fellows, who have been thus re- p
duced by <he ravage, of the yellow fever. ti
A accident happened on Monday, last, in i r
Blakcney'near Mancheller. The friends of ade 0
ceased perfirn went up to the room totake the ufnal c
farewell before the coffin was screwed down, when v
33 the floor gave way, and the living and dead were f;
precipitated to the lower apartment 1 Theimf.ze- c
ment and terror on thi. oecafton may be beitvcon t
ccived than described. p
33 A few days finee a lady loft her pur'*, contain- a
54 ing 40001. in Bank no:ts by pulling out her hand t
20 kerchief jult as she left the bar k, and lias not yet v
50 recovered it, though (he liberally advertised that a ji
57 moieiyofthe whole sum (hould become the pro
-6o perty of iheperfon who found it !
The the lireivershave had anothei I
62 interview on the fubjeft Beer tax : but what
33 with his ifi and ilieir butts, so many ftumbliirg i
M~cfcs were thrown in the way ofnegociation,*that f
the conterence soon broke off abruptly without a- r
10 n y "t sfaftion being gained ©neither fide. ]
By the following Letter it would appear as if i
forged Bank Notes of England had been sent to c
J 0 France, ' t
Head Qiiaiters, Rennes, 15 Germinal.
The Generalin chiefadvife. hi. fellnw-eLtirfflfaj, J
that thenvtit of the Bank ot England circulated i
83 her#, ar* coßiiterfeit, and as falfe as the aflignats
13 of Quitieron, and the Louis given to Stofflet. I
3j (Signed.) HOCHE. 1
14 Certified, conformable to the original. i
Jo COCHIN. ,
Minister of Police., (
There was a bank note came into the Bank the i
other day, tlie interest of which, caliultned from j
33 'he time it had been in circulation, a<nounled to 1
12 more than 43001. , ,
The humanity of the Court of Common Pleas <
7o was on Monday folici'ed for a poor man, who has
67 been kept in Fleet piifon, for twelve years for the ;
rjo fee». — Good God is this a land of humanity ? 1
A veiy feriuus difjiute Sias taken place between 1
the Duke of Norfolk and Lord Maiden, telatjv# |
to the canvass which has taken place at Leominfter. ]
It appears, that an agieement between the agents ,
of these Nublemen had been entered into, for the ;
purpose of putting a Hop to those difgraceful scenes (
of riot and drunkenref. which had lately taken 1
place at Leeminfter. Lord Maiden not only char
ges the ageutsof the Duke of Norfolk with'an iV 1
=- fraflion of' this tjeaty, but in a letter to his G'»ace, ;
dated, he 12th-of April, fays, that lie CORli^e>J s
shn ' I,m peifonally answerable for those tranfa&io.;, !
ot - which heliad already censured iti terms so strong. i
by In coiifequence o( the above mentioned dispute, t
« e s the Duke of Norfolk arrived expvefs. in town on 1
■ec! Saturday morning, and, after making some necefla- c
,re- r r arraugement. with hi. Solicitor, he wiftantjy t
;hts s ent his fiiend, Capt. Wombell, with a rtie(Tage to r
Lord NJalden. Lord Maiden immcdia'ely referred i
-M' Captair, VVombwel! to Capt. Taylor, of tUe guards; i
'of g ent ' £ ' raen < as fecortds, appointed a reu* L
dezvous at five o'clock that evening, near Pad- t
son din/ton, on the Edgeware load, where the partie. 1
nee accordingly met. Having taken their ground, and \
■ c " the werd being given by one of the seconds, they
tired without effett. The seconds then thought <
proper to offer their interference, and, in confe- v
.i. i» ~f n ViluVVi raffpfl f
,u. .. ! leci ci vi'.'ori
, parties were on • „ r " - eri
plat e. , p r i er Wool- pe
*45 2
, %
U-e corn he flioold key. *L &>r txmak
■ a due refurn, 11. and for dchveung a fal.e return,
- 10 1. by whifch ftlfe return the magtftratw were ar
' compelled to set the afTize of br.ead at zs. id. in
• Read of t6d. the half-peck loaf. 1 to ta
• ra l fines were M out in bread, and d.rtr.Wited to a
the iw>or, and the effigy of the m,ller «,« earr*d «
through the c ity, a«d coofigned to the flume, w.th 1«
< every mark ol fleteftation.
L,ft week were committea to Firticrton Ooal, «
Salop, John Maffio, and John Dyke, labourers to «»
e William Barnes, ef End ford, «< there to reman, o
, and he corredUd, and held to hard labour, tor the tl
• (pace of one calendar month, having bee., convrft h;
3 ed before two magistrates of ill behaviour, "in «
8 girding to threfhout grain in a good work.i.au.i« <■
s manner, being duly employed foto do. '
s A little decpncy, one might hav# hoped, would 1
f have prevented the duke of Norfolk and lo.d Mai- tj
den, from b.inging their eleflioneenng tricks be a:
fore the public. The former is u. oppofitioij, the •<
n latter a minillerialift, but both seem to Inve forgot- w
I■ tin, that it is contrary to the laws of the land for a tt
- Peer to have any thing to- do with Elections. I> u
t may perhaps be replied, the p.aclice is common : c«
the greater then ii the flume. Ihe duel wlych
y closed the above quarrel, serves for a-funher proof, rc
that tl|sre are noblemen on bo'h fides, who are e- t
r. qually regardless of the law aof God and of the;*. j_
>f count, y. Cambridge Intelligencer.
I, '
COUNCIL of five hundred.
Sitting of the 20th Ptairial.
t- • A, m,(We from the Directory informs, that g
VMirceaii follows the example of the army of 1
it taly—That of the army of the Sambre and the
™ Meufe has opened the campaign by two *i£torics.
i- On'the 12th Prairial the Republican army at-
?' lacked the enemy at the Hundfrttck, and drove
c- tlicm from all their positions. Generals Marc eau
e» and Ciiampionet, haveexecuted with skill and bra
nt vtr y the ordersof the commander in Chief, Jourdan.
!o ; Another army on the right bank of the Rhine
Id iriarched to the Seig, and completely routed the
he Auftrians, who, reduced to the neeeflity of abag
k- doning this position, related towards/>lterkirk- 1
he en, to which place they were pursued. The enemy
ke loft i.ifflo men, of which iooo are piifoners.—
t>- General Kleber and Moreau commanded the ar- 1
r my. " c
»h From late Paris Papers. 3
Tranjlated soY the Daut sfurEZristK.
at Extracts from thi Courier De L'Egalite. 't
r» : PARIS, 30th Floreal.
N y We have read the juftiftcative memorial of Drou- a
he et; it is entitled, " Drouet, representative of the a
re- people, to the Legislative Body.— Printed by Va
tifr, and fold by Louvet, at the Palais Royal, and -
in in the Afreets.—Drouet mentions that ;«t the time
of his a. left, he was in a private house with Ri- *
:ial cords, Lsignelot, Dane, and two other citizens,
en whom lie did not know, with an intention of break
-re falling with those known and unknown, and of !
ee- confuhing them tefpefiing a letter which he in- 1
>n tended wilting to the Executire Dirfc£tory. It is j
pleasant enough that the firft convention which
in- a petfon in a public chara£ter, and of so high a fta- !
id tion as a leg'flalor fhoyld have with persons, with
(•et whom he was unacquainted, Ihould be upon a sub- 1
t a jest so important, '
ro- After tL'is frank declaration, Drouet speaks of
his pstnotiCm, his ardent love for liberty, equality, 1
ae. &c. From the age of sixteen," fays he, " the !
itat period ax which 1 began to think, my heart was '
!ng inflamed wi:h the most futlime love for liberty, and 1
itat for the political equality of citizens in the social
a- order. My head was filled with the principles ol 1
Rondeau, Mably, RayiiaJ, &c. in ttuth I had an
sii innate aptitude for philolophical principles; 1 bum
to ed to lignalize my zeal, and 1 waited but for a»
opportunity."
It appears that Diouet has loft part of his phi
;ns. lofophical memory in riding poll, for neither Rous
ted feau, Rayna), 01 even Mably, who at the age of
ats 16, he certainly could not tinderftand, have ever !
said any thing in their abitrad theories, that ref-m
---bled the prineiples put in adlion, by the Cunftitu
tionof 1:93. The systems which they have ad
vanced ar< io far from having tljat popular tenden
cy, that they would at this day be regarded as b
the counter-revolution. What a rage these tiema
om gogues have f»t telling fur support upon Raynal
to and Rouflrail 1 Senfelcfs Beings! ye have never
' read them I Every page of their writings contains
leas your condemnation.
has After having fpok*n of the ccnftitution of 1793,
the as a mafk-r.picce of the human miad, after faying
that the idea of knowing that his country was so*
een vereign and free by that conllitution, (to wit, af
tjvr fifiinated, burnt and devallated) consoled him in
Ur. hi ß 1 011>I captivity in Austria, he thus express the
nil emotions of his indignant patriotism, when free
the and returning into France, he read the constitution (
of 1795. " Alas, cried I, in the presence of my
colleagues, Q«incite and Lsmarque, and Geneial 1
.ar Bournonville, "it was not worth while to make so 1
in- many facrifice*. to (hed so much blood, to rctui nto '
|Ce» a fyflem whiel. bears fuf h a lefcml.lance to the go- 1
P* of our cruel enemies. Here is an 1
O"! upper house and a lower house, there is nothiuo :
• wanting but a king," & c . Still when he had ar 1
ite, rived in France, Dtouet chartgcd his language when
on he found that the patriot, had been the firft to ac
j ce P l Enghfti constitution, and'that the Ditec
-17 10 7 a PP"red to be endeavoring by every means to "
Ta r'iVn Cm Y the bum,llation '"to which they
red had fallen fiucc the 9th Thermidor. But yet as
ds; ma few months every thing appeared to him to be
changed, he be.ame so todignant, that he was ije
d- e,n»,„ed;to retire into obfeurity, and to fend in
-e. hi# refignadon ; a project he was about cxecufisig ,
ind when he was arretted.
2 B r U '; if A ve 'he cc-nfeffion of fsith of Drou- 1
'fe will n Wh ° m I,C callttl Patriots, it '
t w"^7; u, r ,hem sj i,crcdwlou^'tht p-- 1
\
«-•
*
sure dtTigns: In. fine, of the plot which that ariflo
•cratie league, -the moil nuel that his ever yet ap.
peared upon the earth, delictus for France. " Siill
the patriots exist in gu<tt irtis&crs 'be remem
brance of their former, gloty, flume a; feeing tbcm
fclvcs eclipfcd by tl.ofe who v. its concealed {luring Y 1
the revolution, the eviU which * yy "hsve exDen
enced, and the misery which ovetwhtlmris them,
are so many oaths of hatred, which exeitc in their
fouls indignation, and a defiie of vetigcanie.
" The violent measures which government may
take, will only fervp to delay f or a vvhilt the burfc
i«g out of those pafltuns, which are now fuppruflec.
In vain will they hinder the auinn (> f citizens—
In vain, will the) '-tigage on their fide the mod
celebrated JournaliUs, it will not diflolve -.he fen
uments which uuit.es all the patriots from one end
of the Republic to the other—They will ft live all
their live* to-frize again the authority which «hey
have loft, and for out- who shall perilh in the at
tempt, a vi&im of his fceal, thousands will press
forward to avenge him." St ill B ro.net acknow
ledges, that their influence is gone. He vvilhes
then " that they would ri(o-*t ouee in mass; thai
th'ey would take with rhem their moveable proper,
ty, their proVisions, their inltruments and their
arms ; ihat they would throw themselves headlong
towaids the frontiers of the Republic; that they
would abandon a country which hates them; and
that they would spread themselves like an over
whelming torrent, over the fertile countries oc
cupied by the enemies of their mother country.
" It is there only, that they could in truth lay a
foundation for the wotfhip ot the democratic
trinity, LIBERTY,'EQUALITY and FRA.
. TERNITY.
■ — mini mm»
From the Mar.yi.and Hesald.
Mr. Cowan,
IN reading over a late paper, I met with-tht
following address to the people of the United
States. Ac the fcßtimenU and warning it contains
are applicable to the citizens of our diftrift, as well
as to those of other dillrifts in the Union, I re
queil you, Sir, to publilh it in your Heiald, for
the attentive confrderation of our fellow-citicens.
1 am, Sir,
your humble servant,
A SUBSCRIBED,
July 21, 1796.
TO THE PEOPLE OK THE tWi-t-SD STATES.
THERE are prevailing iiWiis country two pars
ties of very opposite sentiments. But without
tracing them through all the drftin£tions by which
they have refpeftively been known, it is fufficient
to observe, and it is greatly important for every
citizen to b» informed, that one paity is exerting
all its endearots to involve the United States in
the calamities of wfcr, and that t! e other party is
wifely, a.id I trust fuceefsfuHy, employed in pre
serving our peace and happi.iefs, To men, well
acquainted with the true situation of our public
. affairs, this information is unnecessary ; but too
" many of the people are inattentive to political ob«
j jeils, an 3 appear unconfciaus of their danger. Be
e ing thjemfclves in the pofiifiion of all the iik-lfings
which a good government wifely ad|R°niltered has v -
bellowed, they t!o not imagine that tutbulent and
' seditious men furroond them, and labour to destroy
j- their repose. And yet the better to deceive them
into this fataj.fecurity, rtiefc turbulent and ambi
tious men burrow the language of patriotism, and
hypocritically aflume the rhara&er of'patriot*. But
these blcflings, dear and interesting as.they are, are
t heldat present by nothing but a thrsad : For tvliile
the war rages in Europe, be affitretl the situation
of this country will remain imminently critical,
j- The continuance of that terrible war, famous for
the dcftiuflion of man, Ifceps alive the hopts of
J this malignant .party ; and they flill expefl, by ar
tince and fraud, to. make us partake in all its hor
]) rors.
j Let those, then, who are really the friends of
I peace, look around them, a,nd make themselves in
u quifitive about the temper and chara&er of every
candidate for office : The ensuing tle&ions for
w members of the Hotife of Reprefeiitativea in Coa
grels will lequire all the caution and fortitude of
I which the human micd is capable. Ctizens, he
r carelul liuw you dispose of your fuffrages— patile
f for a moment, and conliderjiow you turn out, and
, r how you put in. Inquire minutely into the pub
s lie coftdutl of those -ho have served you alreadv :
Do not judge of them by this or that particular in-
I Itance, but by the general tenor and complexion,
of their political attions. If you find that your
merrber has sided with the partizans of war, and
has fought to *' flop the wheels of government"
a j and irtibarrafs the honeil views of our worthy Pre
,r (ident, turn him out without rclpeit to his person,
■ 2nd eleii the friend of peace. If 011 the contrary
your present member has invariably supported lite
k" measures of peace, and united hi 3 endcav*>s to
prefei vc amity between the United Ssves and other
nations, be sure to run 110 hazcrd—■4e sure to re
(■_ elctt him ; you arc ccrtain by repeated trials,that
: n he is a friend to your prosperity and happitrfs;
le and from the proofs he has given of his firmnels and
(e fidelity you may fafely depend upon bis future ex
n ertions for the lame deiirable ends. By. a change,
the prosperity of our country may be haz-rded,
a j and our rights and liberties may be swallowed up in.
"o t^lc: 'errors of a fanguinsry revolution. BlitaprU-
Q detit people, like a wife individual, Ihould put m>-
''""S tu valuable at flake—They should never gi
„ up a CERTAINTY for an uncertainty- Citizens,
attend! Let PEACE be the watch-word of yo" r
■ faftt r-
fjrmer.
June 20, 1796.
1 1 i■ ■ «*»U».U»'I>'.WPIII hj ,i 1
0 BY AN ARTIST,
Resident at Mr. otilers'! Hotel,
e MINIATURE LIKENESSES
ARE taken and executed in that elegant and delicate
stile, which it so necefTar j: to rci>der aMiniatarc I it*
g ture an interfiling jewel.
He will warrant a strong and indisputable refoin
. hlance; and he takes the JilTty to lay be Tore th-» poolic
{ of this place his most earncft intention to deserve tikeir P a "
tronage by his befi andeavors to ple»f(_.
N. B. Bpc<ywer,3 ate u> le C<xu~. , jaglm
-r nr)>'l;!f/el/>bi'!,
SATHRIiAY EVENING, Auscst 6.
/ y s'C R 1 P T 10 N
On a wry hrfi a,J th.anl VASE, or CUP and
COV ER, which cams nder the can cf caftam ' v .♦
IVicks, of t!>sJhip Sally,iateb airraid at this fort,
from London. - y
From * si
Thi Merchants P o^,
v OF THI
CITY OF GLASGOW n "'
TO CAPTAIN JOHN HODGE,
OF THE f°£
American Shi? Ssoesisr, .
. In teflinior.y <jf their high fer.feyf l>»* °g
llumane and Hazardous Exertions,
IN SAVING , , p
The lives of 160 British
' SAII-ORS AND SOLDIERS,
From on roakd t.he
Auucmj, Transport,
when sinkiSg,
FSBS.uarv, 1796. j
THIS Vase i« of exquisite workmanfhipi—<Drna- J"
memeci with Oak and Olive.Leaves, &C—beauti- i"««
fully-chafed and froUcd.
On tbe edi July arrived at Fort-Walhington, Bj "
M»jor-6eneral ANTHONY WAYNE, com- J'
mandei in chief of the United States Legion. t0 >
ARRIVED at this PORT.
Brig Wtlirome Retnrn, Labree," Savannah 10 1»
Delaware, Dunphy, Port-aa-Prince 15.
The following American vefTcls were to fail from C
Londonderry for Air erica. g OT '
Ship Deborah, Palmer, for Neweallle, Delaware, P ri>l
May 10. tl,e .
Adolflhe. Wilder, Ditto, May 25. Wltt
Nancy, Luhgow, Ditto, Aug. I. mo '
Union, Cafcader, Ditto, May IJ. lem
William & Henry, Carnes, do. and New York, witl
May. 5. ' ;i e ;
Brig Eliza, M'Leod, do. do. May 20. ,ncl
Morning Star, , do. do. 15." val r
CLEARED. • R ue
Brief Weft-Indian, Charlton, Jamaica font
Schooner Hazard, Williams, Edenton tyn
Adventure, Barnard, Currituck trui
Sally, Owens, Ditro tior
Sincerity, Copia, Alexandria nifr
Sloop Industry, Guthiie, St. Bartholowews d"?
Prifcilla, Green, New-York ven
Mary, Hansford, Frederick/burgh
wit
Arrivals at New~York. by
Ship Jnoo, Haivey, Havre-de Grace anv
Sloop Dove, Brawn, St. Croix »i».
Extrtft of a letter fmm a Gentleman in Gibral- ,er l
tar, to hit friend in this city, dated May 30, unc
1796. cal
« Notwithstanding the superiority of the English 1
in these feat, there nre ten Republican privateers wlr
out of Toulon, MarfeMes, Sec who have taken hal,
within the ptefent month 47 English veffcls, viz. por
14 (hips, -jjfnowsand brigs, all of which (exccpt «v<
four) have arrived fafe." i l^l
Three of the above privateers boarded Captain vnl
M'Call, from Leghorn and Gibraltar. Re
■ .... Tr
The New World. %
SAMUEL k SMITH, by
INFORMS the public; that encouraged by a liWal pa
tronage, and in compliance with numerous rcquefls
from Subscribers, he has determined to anticipate the pub- .
lication of The New World. The firft number will ap- °*
pear on Monday, the 15th August. Those wh« r ve seen th<
lii* proposals are fufficiently acquainted with the|p4au and foi
terms on v-'hich. it is designed to condud this nAvfpaper.
For the information of those pcrfons who are not acquaint
ed, it is necefTary ta observe, that it Will be publiih-d P
twice a day, in the morning and evening •> that the price
is only Ei{;ht Dollars, being the fame with that of news- an
papers printed but once a day ; and that its pi?n will be rj]
com«rehenfive and liberal. I rc >
£jT The Pubhflier ofFcfs a liberal compensation to any ju
perftm well qualified to make a coire& and full report of ..
the Debates of the Federal and State Legislatures, whioh ? n
it is his intention to publ.fh in the Kew lis
Apyertifements will be infertcd, froni the appear- £c
anccof the'firft number until further notice, when not
ejcecdiwg a square. for forty cents for the firft, and twen-
ty qpnts for every subsequent insertion ; and a confidera
fcle abatement will b® made when they ire steadily insert- ' nl
ed. Those gentlemen who have expressed their intention ; lb
qi feitdirig Advertisements, as well as those who have such j : m
an intention without having expressed it, are informed
that the paper of Monday, August 15, will be open for
their admiflion until the evening of Saturday preceding. w
N. B. It isearneftly requested that all fubfeription-pa
pers not yet returned, muy be sent to the printer before fu
the day of publication.
A faithful Pressman wanted. ar
Aug. 6 eotjjth
cl
Prime Rice. t ; t
One Hundred Tierces of Prime Rice, a ,
|uft arrived in the brig Welcome Return, from Savast-
jiah, forfaleby , FOOTMAN & CO.
Aug. 6 N § C '
01
For p
James V/jcrham, Master, C(
Et-icSed to fail in all next week, y>
\ffl L take a few barrets on freight. Apply to the mas
ter on board at Stamper's wharf, or to
John Donnaklfon,
No. 2 c Walnut-flreet.
6 §7 i^'
LANDS, ~
In Harrifon county, Virginia, for Sale. f<
FOUR Trails containing 5000 acres each, and a moiety tl
of one other traift of 5000 acres, all situated on the n
waters of Elh and Hughes's river. | t
For farther parrir jars enquire at No 70 Cfcrfnut-flreet,
where tiie Patents ybe ken. "
au.,-6 fwScnin t.
e —— * ' ■ ' —'i ■ C am
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
(tat<
si ,T n
NEW-YORK, Awguft y.
A Late tact night arrived the ftlip J.mo, capt. Har- he f
vey, of Bollon, in 77 cays from Havre-dc-Grace. ' j;
I Capt. Harvey ftaics hat provisions were wlaark
' ably cheap in Havre j the be!t prime beef wag fel- * 1;j .
ling at half a gtiinea per barrel, fiout &c. in pro- p^b
portion. 1 . den
Capt. Harvey left m Havre, the following Ame- „
ricau vedcls: . abo
SMf'B videre, of New-York, laden with fait
to foil in ; days, AR
Ship Venus, ofNew-Yoik, expected to fail For 1
Boiirdeaux. J
SJ'ip Ncw-Jetfey, of Philadelphia, capt. Hefs,
to fail in about ten days for Liverpool. (we
Capt. Harvey, on hia palfage Ipoke the follow
ing vefßls : e( j ,
May 20, fp"ke (hip Betsey, of New-Port, from
Copenhagen, bound to Rhodc-IHand, out 6 -days.
May 24, was boarded by a Boitifh 74. a( | o
May 29, spoke (hip Eliza from Chariellun, bound
to Bourdeaflx, out 36 days. ort
,« June 7, spoke brig Anna, of Boston, from Sur- £
j. inam, out 30 days, bound to Hamburgh, John
Holland, matter.
July 6, spoke brig Sjjeed, of Salern, bound to
, Bourdeaux, g days out. •
,! July 13, spoke snow Sally, of We 11 j, from Opor- j^ a
to, baund to Boston, out 27 days. ( j le
FROM LATE PARIS PAPERS.
0 Translated for thk Daily Advertiser.
PARIS, 28 Florcal, May 18. exc
Saint Qucntjn,* i6Floreal. j
m Citizens, while we lived under a revolutionary con
government, while fans-culottifm, denunciation,
e> proscription, blood and death were the order ot •
the day;—while our unhappy country was covered
with crimes and with icaffolds, we then beheld a
•mong the constituted authoiuies, men without ta- an(j
lents, vithout experience, without murals, and {wc
without probity. If, by chance, we found among of
them men of probity and virtue, we might fay of
them as in Virgil, Apparent ran nantes in gmgite £ x
vallo.
The people of Saint Quentin, wearied and fati-
gued with feeing themselves governed by such per- arf j
ca sons, tired of living under the yoke of these petty
a „ tyrants, have at length opened their eyes ~a their
■k true interests. They have swept away the revob
ro tiunary vtrmin, those impure remnants of Jacobi- hu<
ia nifm, who for more than 3 years palt have, to the or
*'s disgrace and forro v ofout city, toimeiued and dri
rk ven to despair the hiueft pait of the community.
rh These fans eulotte magistrates havebcen difmilTed ■
' with shame, and ftnt back to their ftiops, .wh<?r*,
by spinning or carding wool, by working at the
ce anvil, or last, by turning the grindstone, or spin- ' ai
ix "i"S wheel, by driving the (huttle or the plane, they
will more ufefullv lerve th« Republic, than by in
a], terpieting and pnbHffiing laws which they do rfot '
understand, and which the greatest part of them can ""
scarcely spell. *
(h We fliall no longer kehold them gorged with
:r5 wine and brandy, goingfrom the tavern to the town t
en halj, and thtie while intoxicated, deh.beiaiiiig u |
iz. pon the fentimenn, the liber.y, the fortune *i' 4 tn'« " j
pt lives of their fellow citizens. These men, metre than
immoral, havebeen replaced bygitizens whoarewife
ijn viituous, prudent and enlightened j friends o) the
Republic, of the laws, ol morals and of order.—
3-; This * hoice which does honor to the people ol Si.
Qiientin, -has not had, citizen, the of
i/ur Jacobins and our blood drinkers—"uOcUmneii
by the order and exprefg command of the ot
P*~ people, to a painful and fhameful infigniticance, ca
triey have sworn ly their red cap, and the names so
a p_ of Robefpiem and Marat, that they will revenge -w
'en themselves for the violence done to their patpotifm ; ril
and for these gentlemen dare, like Carrier, Joseph Le g<
P er> , Bon, Collet D'Herbois and Co. ta to call themselves at
int- «
h-d P al^,otß%
r ; ce The blow soon follows the threat. One of them fr
:wf- an ex advocate, ex sub-delegate, ex-attorney gene- fa
be pi, tx-bailiff, ex administrator of department, ex
rovalift, ex-monaichiff, cx roman catholic, ex-con.
ftnuttonal catholic, ex-deist, ex-deiltical profeflor ol
hioh in the popular fo*ty of St. Quentin, &c. 01
hasbeea directed by his worthy and right worthy J
ear- colleagues, to denounce to the Executive Direfto- ; N
not ly, the members of the administration of the mili- t<
tary hofpiial, at Ferraques, and of course the ijnu- ! it
f ert . ; nieipality to whom the law has given rtie guardian- ;b
tion ; thip of those ellablifhmente. 1 have read the de- !t(
such i nunciation, and though it is exprefled in general t<
n ' ed terms, it plai ly points out th* victims tnej would • o
n ° r wish to facrifice. jf,
• pa- Under the reign of Maximilian Nero Robcfpierre e
■.lore such a denunciation would have'been fufljeient to r<
eonduft to theguillotine the dircflars of the hospital ; t
and the municipality who were to watch over them, d
'It is with infinite pleasure I render to the Exe- n
cutive Ditefkory that justice which ihey merit— t
They would not judge without the knowledge of
thecauf#. Commilßoners were sent to St. Quen« t
tin with orders to inform themftlves on the ipot,
CC, and to make their report, arrived at the town-hall,
van- t f, e y brought the e«cufer in the prefcnce of the ac?
cufed, and in a public fitting they catifed tiic acl i«
dcNimciation to be read, whieh was signed by Col- I
liet, and with his mark. Language fails me to 'v
paint to you tlie lengthened vifagc of the Jacobin t
denunciator; he sweat blood at every pore, while t
theaceufed, ftfong in the testimony of their own r
confidence, prefervea that calmness and fierenity c
? , which are the attendants of innocencer 1:
ma '" One of them, however, more animated than the t
reft, was about to let his tlick tall upon the large r
' fhouldersot the patriot Coliiet, but upon more ma- 1
ture reflection he contented himfelf like the reft of, h
his colleagues, with leaving the denunciation and the a
denunciator to thfe coiuempt and indignation of the e
people. From the enquiiy of the commifltonets it f
follows, that the condufl of the municipality and of
oiety the officer* ofpolice and of health, attached to the
1 the military hospital of Ferraques is free from the
lell repiosch ; that they have all paid to the sick, C
wounded and convalefcettt soldiers, the 'rcioft poin- I 1
-Ted eare» and unremitted attention, and that the j a
camelton Collf't y a vile denunciator, and a noted has
calumniator. O? all thcfe fauiUthry have made a Tl
(latement, which mailer Colhet has been obliged to lou
after having received front the commifSincrs Co
a iliarp admonition, "and those juil reproofs which D'
he merited. N
Be pieced, Citiacn, to give my letter a place in Ms
your uleiul journal- We cannot make too public l 8
the conduit of the represent at itr <ts who compose the
publi? diredlory, They dclire jullice, and iu v ren- riv
dertng it they will caule the Republic to be beloved.
* A large tow£ in the department of Aifue, P°'
about So miles from Paris. Fit
Ex
ARrfYOF THE RHINE AND MOSELLE,
May 18.
Delertinn is very great amcyig the Aullrian
trftope. Scarce a day passes that from twelve to J al
twenty do n«t arrive within the compass of a
brigade. I genera! they appear but. little attach- ma
ed to the cause of the Etppeior; whether it is on
account of their great fatigue, their little success,
or the fear of a ne* campaign, or rather a continu
ation of the war with the Turks. Whatever the Sc
cause may be, it concerns ua but little ; but if their
forces are thus diminilhed we fhallfoon force thetn
' te an U«»«orable peace.
MANHEIM.
Upon the arrival of the Pietendei, aKas Leu is
XVIII. at the army of Conde, be wrote to Field
Marshal Wurmfer the following letter; —" I have
the pleasure to inform you that X have arrived at
the army of the French emigrants, rcfolved to fight
with them and at their fides, in the molt juil of
causes which may it please heaven to favor. Your
excellency need not suppose that I have the fmal
lcft intention of making the least alteration in the
command, or to supersede 'either the Prince of
J. Conde or General Latour, both of whom have ac- ,
quitted themselves with so much courage and abiK-
i/. Hv ! I wtUh_a»_a-TtU<lirr to partake with that .
brave corps in the dangers and t&ils of the wai,
I and under the orders of your excellency, and those lD|
two generals, to make the campaign in the capacify aU
j. of a limple soldier,'"
Extratt of a letter from Bouideaux, ioth Floreal,
9th May.
A captain of a privateer named the Adventure, P r
' arrived from Cayenne, relates the following cir
cumllance :—The negroes of the city and country .
llirred up by some wretches, had agreed to murder 1
nearly all the whites 0:1 Friday the day was not ' '
however definitively fixed, but might be pollponed ~
or delayed according to circumstances. Those of
the city were to make themselves matter of the ' Jt
, fort, and inform the olheia of that event, by firing
thirteen cannon.-
' The Privateer Adveature, arrived at Cayenne,
L the Wednrfday befote, and saluted the fort with 9 '•
cannon—The fort answered it by 3, aud they repli-
ed with one—The whole making the number 13.
_ The Negroes ofv the country deceived by the 15 p
Canrton, which they took for the signal agreed up
0 #tvy isn iacrawds to the city armed with all fort jof
Irun uteirfils they could procure. They were how
ever rigoioufly ropulfed by the garrison, the inha
bitant, and the crew sf the privateer. The Nc
' iVro' ■ hiefs have acknowledged the plot ; but the J
white chiefs treat it a* a chimera, waiting a better
opportunity. This happened in Nivos last.
:c ' t
Mr. AMES. t
LANCASTER, July 29.
>f [From a Corrtff undent.3
ii On Monday tall the celebrated orator and patri- f
not, Mr. Ames, (of MafPachufetts) arrived in Lan- t
e, caller. He has been on* a tour to the fouthwatd t
:s for the benefit of his |ie?lth, and it is with pleasure t
rc we find that he is considerably rectuited since the c
1 ; riling of Congress. On Tugfday a number of <
,e gentlemen of the borough gave a handsome dinner 1
es at Mr. Slough's to this American Cicero. -On 1
Wednesday morning he proceeded to Philadelphia, 1
m from whence in a few days he will depart for Mas- t
e- fachufetts. 1
x- COOPERSTOWN. (N. York,) July 28.
in. \Vc have this week closed the celebrated Speech '
'or ps Mr. Ames—-It has, already pafled 4or 5 editi- 1
:c. j ons —we feel pleasure in enriching the pages of {he 1
hy I Herald with sentiments of genuine federalifm— 1
to- i Mr. Ames hat concentrated the force of all the po- 1
ili- : tent arguments, offered on the floor of Congress :
m- ! in favor of the Treaty ; and has immortalized them,
in- , by blending them with his own—His speech ought
le- I to be preserved by every freeman, who wishes well
ral to his country }as it will furnifh them with a fuhd
aid j of political knowledge, at the small cxpence of a
\ few hour's reading—Whatever may have been the
rre celebrity of the other ornaments of our national
to representation ;we presume none will envy the par
ital • titular notice taken of Mr, Ames ; or endeavor, to
m. deprive him of that applause which is due from a ge
xe- nerous and grateful people, to one of their best Pa-'
-— triots.
of " Many Patriots ha\-e spoken excellently, but
eiw thou excclletl them all."
ot,
all, CINCINNATI, July 9.
acr FO&T WASHINGTON.
01 On the Bth inft. departed this life M'ljor Johsi
!ol- Mills.} his military services in the revolutionary
to 'war of America, and the fuccefstul campaign of
bin -the Legion in-which' he has moll reputably dif
lile "chained the important duties of Adjutant-Gene
«n ral, had rendered him generally known and refpeft
ity cd : common acquaintance, and all observers knew
his worth and have acknowledged his merit, but
the by those to whom he was best known, he will be
rge mod lamented. He was interred from the dwel :
na- ling of the Territorial Secretary (where he made
of his exit) with militaiy honors ; and a very general
the attendance of the citi jens evince that, tbey refpcdl
the ed tlie Major's memory, and the foirow of his
3 it friends. *
lof —
the NORFOLK, July 30.
'.;-k Ycflerdayarrived here the lchoouer Flying Fish,
ck, Cnpt. Allifon, 19 days from Antigua. The day
>in-j he failed, Capt. Coboon, of the brig Corn Planter,
the j a 1 rived there from Cuadaloupe, where his ttff&
had been earned in, and veflc) and cargo
There had-been leveial vci'.le -taken into Giiad?*
loupe, 2nd condemned in the fame manner. Ths.
Curn Planter was on her homeward passage from,
Uemarara, when captured by a French privateer.
Spoke in lat. 20, 12, loirg. 65, the fchooncr
Mercury, from this port, hound to .Antigua, out
l 8 day* ; all well.
The brig Janet, Whitbee, from this povt, ?r* -.
rived at Antigua the i?ih July.
1 he Eliza Leamy, Barron, was to fail for thi?
port {via St. Thomas's).four days after the Flying
Fi(h.
Extract of a letter from Wilm.ingtap (M. C.\ to .
a geritlerfir-n in thi&tqwi), ciaUil Ju!y 18.
" V A irp&li French pjrivSJ. er Jias 'carrifd into.
Cape-Fear river, a ship and belonging to
! jamaicji fieet. They are sic# admitted to an entry.
They arc lu.idei wi'li sugar and rutrj, and.are tit
mated at 150,000 dollars value."
| PORT OF NORFOLK.
fc N I*E R E I> \
; Schooner Flying Filh, Allifou, St. .Bartholomews,
Dove, Cr-ooker, .. do.
. POKI of Baltimore,
August 2.
ARRIVED,
Brig Fanny, Hopkins, Atix Cayes
SchvA>ner Mary, Vibert, Demaraia
Polly, Dennis, Salern
Sloop Sterling, Maxwell,' Martinico
Polly, Hall, Port-au-Princc
Nancy, Elbeck, 1 Antigua,
I NEW.YORK, Anguft 4.
To tht Editor of the Minerva.
~ Aoguit ill, 1796.
f ?'*'
REPORTS of an alarming nature having fprejiJ
through the country relative to the filthy (late' of
T JUrM IsA t* f* I 1 ey '!'• ky h rIW fat*
thoferepotts dtTerved credit, to which the follow-.
' ing is an answer, and which, at my requcft, the
L author has confenteri Ihould l,e made pvWic. *
r RICHARD CHAINING MOORE,
New-York, July 2<?th, 1796, t
Sir,
' IT is true that a fever resembling the one \vhiih
proved so great a fcourg; to our city the last yeat,
' made its appearance about Whitehall, and in the. :
vicinity of the Exchange, early in this month j
y but fortunately for us, from a concurrence of hap
-1 py events, the fever has entirely fublided. It had
1 continued Cut a Short time only, wheii it plealed a
1 Gracious Providence, to fer.d us hard" winds, re*
' peatcd thunder and Ifghtninp, inundations of isin,-
' and ceol weather. To these cauhs i think we may
afcriVie the fufpenfiou of a formidable cifeafe which
had began to ihew its.-IF amongst us. And fhoulA
it return again, I have fwlid reaLns to believe that
? it will not be extended beyond certain limits,
Yot} may recoiled that in Ihe frequent con»erfa»
5' tions we have had 011 the fubjeft ot the Wt yeai's
* fever, I have been uniform in my opinion, as tp the
f" caufesof its production, namely, the accumulation
3 of every fpeciesof/filih an<t pitiiiliible matter, oft
v ~ the low, new grounds on the south tide of the
3 city, and the abominable odora of filling up flips
1 jtnd docks \vi:!i similar materials: I have said that
116 such cnufes, aided by a moid atmosphere ?nd a hot
e ' fun, would not fail of producing the most baneful
exhalations, and that their effedls must neceflarily
be felt by those who are more immediately cxpgjed
to their influence.
The proprietors of the lots on tfce eafl fide of
White Hall Slip, carried out a bulk head the last
ri- spring, with a view to extend the dock farther into
in. the river. Thedimenfioiis of the dock are very
,td coufiderable | and a maxim invariably adopted by
ire the owners of the docks, is, that the cheapest mode
he of filling up is the fecit ; accordingly carts were (
of employed to colled such dirt and filth as all large
ter and populous cities fu'nifh in abundance ; and'
Dii with materials of this description wbs the dock
ia, filled up, and to give greater salubrity to the
as- there were occasionally added, dead horles, dogs*
&c. &c.
The exposure' of Whits-Hall, and indeed the
:ch whole of the weft end of the city must be canfiders'
iti- ed fas naturally extremely healthy. The winds du-"
;he ring the warm season, are commonly from the £ea,
and arrive at tbis part of the town uncontaminated
:>o- bv palling over no tjnwholefome grounds. Yet such
■ess is the fad, that the poisonous exhalations which
:m, have abounded in that quarter dtiring the warm
rht weather in the beginning of this-month, had far
'-ell changed the air, that the inhabitants on tha foutV
ihd fide of Pearl ttreet, between the Old-flip and Whito.
f a Hall, almost all concur in their teltimony, that the.
tjie difagrceable effluvia has frequently übliged therrf,-
n'al especially in the evening, to close the windows on
>ar- the south fide of tfieir houses, and in ftveral inftan
to ce)gentlemen haveafruredus,that the oflFeufive fmeil
ge- has been such as to occasion vomitings.
Pa- The whatf on which Mr. Delalield's stores are
ereited, is in a state truly execrabl -, and the flip
but on the right and on the left, is in a cOßditipß little
better, Th«fe and such places are vitited by the
dock fever—the yellow fever if you please, that
' murderer of our own creating. Were the proprie
tors of thefeand fbch like docks, compelled to live
ms in their vicinity, tht evil would soon be remedied j"
iry- but people of this description are generally fectire
1 of from the ravages of disease, in the cooler retirements
dif- of the country.
rnc- The present exertions of the common council, ia
giving!* new furfaoeofwholefome earth to thedock
lew at White-Hall, will no doubt be productive of the
but greatcft advaniages to the inhabitants of that part
be of the city | and it the fame measures were extend
vel- ed to other parts of the town, there would be much
ade less rsafon to apprehend a return of the do k-fever.
eral Thu6 fir, your are answered: you m ght
cd- have some to town with fafety j you may come to
his town with fafety. New York, as I have laid be
fore, may be rendered as healthy a city as any i.n
derthe fun ; and when a more rigid police prevails,
and thenuifances with which the city abounds are
ifh, corrected, you will hear no more of:he ravages,of
day particular diseases. 1 amSii, ike.
tcr, RiCHARDBAYLEY.
:«'el To the Revi. Rd. Cifi«NisG Moore,X
Ht^-.
•' ||
i
i
.*