/
of the &> Philadelphia Daily Advertiser.
KUMBF.X 1227.] , MONDAY EVENING, Mjr]UST 15, 1796. \ \Volvmf.
Jjjjjfclr The brig Mary
MWh FOR SALE, F
AND may be seen at Abiah and Wiliiani
irou*** Brown's wharf. She is about 800 barrels
burthen, strong built, and well but-bolted y has elegant
accommodations, is a good sailer. only 10 months old,
and may be ferjt to Tea immediately. Apply to
James Brown,
No. 119 South Second-ftreeC.
Who has for sale, a few punchcons l.ign pr.oot
- Jamaica Spirits
AND A FEW BARRELS SHAD.
Aug. if
For JEREMIE,
• tej||^^Thefchooner Hope, I
Brig Betley. h<
THEY are fact-failing veflels, xnd-ha.ve elegant accommo
dations. For passage only, apply to
Richard & James Potter,
Aug. 5 § No 8 north Frqnt-fireet
For Rotterdam,
„ y The fl»ip
Cat K A KIN E ,
Jfcy'fi John Farraday. Mafltr,
S&ViiSsSafc ' I WO thirds of he: cargo will be On
. 1 board this week. The remainrr.'j
third wi'l he taken on freight if offered soon, as she will ~
positively fail.in all next week. A few palfengers can he
■we'll accommodated F»r terms of freight or p iffa^e
L apply to the captain gn board at Mr. Hud tie's wharf, or
to jnHN CRAG, *
- Aug. 8 J No., ii Dodc-iireet.
For Sale or Charter,
THE SNOW
BOSTON,
BURTHEN about 2000 Bbls. of flour—(he may be f--ii f
to sea at a fnwll expence, her fails and rigging ii ,
vciy good order—apply to
James Campbell, or , |
George Latimer.
April 29, §
For Madeira,
V-'-*:;.V*"• James Wickham . Mi.Vr,
* —Expeaed to fail m all n xt week,
•WILL take a tew barrels on freight Apply to the mifl
ter on board at Stamper's wh rf, or to
John Donnaldfon,
No. 25 Walimc-ltreet.
*ug. 6 §7
Just rrived,
In the fhio MMly» John F'o»t. \Jafter, f»nm Livero >o? %
5000 Bushels Bell fine (loved SALT,
«CO BulVls HOls h rI >1.,
And 118 Crates of hhVsW ARK aIT rt; J
' ;R sale by
Philip Niekiin & Co.
3-., M. «. THE SMD
Ship M OILY,
T S for s n» CH RT* R. the' is S
* yea»sold. Philadelphia built, of white
•Sk, was well 'aVd and-carries about 4SOO bartels of Fifcu< '
Tor term® apply as aboVe.
July 23. d f
This Day commenced Landi- g,
At Vifflins wharf, tit. cargo of the Brig Lu.y and Sloop
St. Jago, from St. J ago de Cuba—conliitingof
White and Brown Box SUGAR.
MOLASSES, of an excellent quality. .
COFFEE.
HIDES and HONEY. Also,
For Sale or Charter.
\ flout, strong vefl'el, will carry a
x\ bout 1200 barrel'", and may go to
- f«a with a very small exptnfe.
.The $b9Ve_will be fold for calh or approved notes.
Samuel Emery,
" « . :———— No 64, south Second*ftreet
|uly 17, 1796. dtf;
Formal e,
Or for Charter to the Well-Indies,
jfjjfe c e'r'h; s,
OF Live Oak and Red Cedar, bdrthen about 3?03 bar
rels, now discharging Latimer's wharf ■ 1 his ves
sel is in excellent well fouud and will bear a tho
rough examination, and as soon a* discharged will be tea
dy to take in a cargo. For terms apply to
John Vaughan.
July 28 §
Just Arrived
In th brig Betsey, from Jeremie, and for sale hy
<he fublcrii-iers.
Forty thousand wt. of very prime Coffee
in hogthead'. an d bags
And, in the schooner Hope, from New Orleaas.
BEEF
COTTON
HIDES and
tOG WOOD.
A liberal credit will be given for Approved Notes.
Richard and James' Potter.
July iy". dtf
Just Arrived,
to the Snow Boston, James Kirkpatrick, master from Li
verpool,
5000 Bnfhels SALT ;
100 Crates QUEENS WARE; and
An Afiortment of SHIP CHANDLERY-.
FOR SALE
On board, at Fine-street wharf. Apply to %
James Campbell, or
George Latimer.
April ap. $
Landing
From on Jioard the Nancy, William B- Vber, t-j
. ter, from Bourdeatix, a coi»fifti- 1 of—l- 1>
360 Hhds. CHOICE CLARET, ta
Cases of 24. bottles each, Claret, cit;
286 do. of ; 4 do. WHITE W 7 INE,
BRANDY, SWEET OlL.aud , da '
1 TRUNK of RIBBONS, „° r
FOl Sale tv au<
F. Coppinget.
Wm. HOLhKKNKS>r, •
A r o. 7iS ///r» Street, j
HAS received hy the Lt-ft arrivals from Europe and p r(
the Eatl Irdies. a well fetched aflortm'snt of Silk ' j
Mercery, Linen I>rjp?ry and Haber+dtliery rtoods: which acc
he will fell, Wholesale and Retail, on the lowest terms ;
AMONOST WHICH ARE, f r ,g
Some fine India mufllns embroitfered with gold and fflver +•
Superfine Book, Jaconet, aad Mulmul ditto |
Do do do do Hculkcrchiefs ' j the
Some extra black taffetics,l>it«&rings and colored Ptrfiins rc ,-
Bandano Handkerchiefs' 1
Long and (hort Nankeens exc
Englilh Mantuas of the firfl quality J ar
Daniafk table linen and napkins, very fine hi;
Silk Hosiery, an elegant aflui'tmant f-r
Thead and cotton do {no
tjmhrella^—green silk. oil'ddo. and do cloth .i
1 French cambrics, very fine —
r Irish Linensj do. &c. Sac. Jufie 14 '■ §
i — ; — ——■
V* anted,
r r'\ Tarttter with a fma'l capital to unite in the hufmefs
i . <• \ • till and . pitiillfrj. in Virginia. Inquire of ~
the Priu'-r Aug j {iw
J-V.r 1 . '' ''•••
1 * Th»ee' thry cWirK HOUSE -n* Lot, in Chefnot
11~\. flr .et, between r ::r an Second streets, ii which
■MeiTrs. James Calbrai'li 3> Co. have for manj years (and
• now on hulncis. '•
./ Poffefiior- willie givu in one r. nnth, or sooner. -
* lor pe]) t° WJLI lAM BELL,
>*~ HECTOR CALBRAIffI
April 41. * §
FOR SALE,
WINE, Lon j>ll particular Madeira, 4 years old,
in pipet and hrgfhiads
x Claret, •gemiire old, in cases f e ,
Oi" in p'oes, from Holland
* ' n Ware, in crates
I BV. e Salt, inhogfheads
; >. ■•>s. 6, 7, 1 'j'id 9
W F r Lea:!, F.sd and white dry lead —
Steel, Gertna' and Rufiia, in irrels
Anchors, cubles, junk, bunting, tarpolin Canvas, W
Tin plates—Ah invoice Stationarv hv W
i ItOM VS & JOHN KETLAND. fit
July .$ : !V
C A, B L E S,
Fron j 6 to 0 \ inches, for sale by
' jfcr-ef&Mk Hr rfrt l _ - ,
July.Ji ,f No 12 northThird-flxcet.
"E L PII ANT.
Th<t jiimtli ft in le fier in High-Street, letwetn
tkeTe !> fl d the Eleventh-Street. A
H- will eof ively leave Philadelphia the tenth of Sep.
t( h - for Baitimere, in his way to Charleston,
1 where he vviii *'in er ,
ADM' 1 vNCE Half a Dollar—quarter of a Dollar
for Children 1
Ihe PANORAMA, or the VJF " of the CITIES of ±
LONDON and WF.S MINSTER, in
Is to.he open tili the lOth of September, and the sub- t ii
>p jefi will then be removed to Baltimore with the ELE- g (
PHANT 'ti.
ADMITTANCE for the PANORAMA, O
One quarter of a Dollar-.- w
y. , ■ t_ th
. ~~ : .. 4i<
>a es of In<lia Goods.
' ti!
Ihe Cargo ef the thip G nges, capt. Tingey, from Cal- | tr
a cutta and bengal, j
t<j consisting or
\ Large and general afforttrent of bengal and Madras
CO TTON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
A variety jine worked and plain Mujlins,
Doreas, life. Also, "*
A Quantity of Exce'fent Sugar,
Id boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by a
Willings 55f Francis, I
No. 21 Penn Street. 1
June 8 / ■ § R
J : b
»•- \ Book-Kerper,
L '" p clerk's place N warted hy a p :fon properly quali
|°" < ' Cd , and whose ch racier will be found unexception
able. Apoly to the Printer.
Aug. it if ]
For sale by the fublcribers, a
IN Pr.NM-Jlx EBT, a
■ Ttc f|u rter Cheils frefh Hy fen Tea ; c
I®o d:tto do. frefh Sojuchong Tea ; j J
ioo Boxes China, containing small tea fettt of 42 i a
pp ° . 1 c
pieces;
400 pieces Bandanoes.
Hillings Cff Francis.
January 10 j
Lottery and Broker's Office, (
!. A 7' 64 South SecondJlreet,
rMCKFTS in the Canal Lottery No. 11, are now rea
dy for sale. a Check Book kept for the examination
_ of Tickets, and Prize* paid, without deduction.
' The Subscriber fnlicits the application of the Public or 1
any of his friends who wifli to purch fe or fell Bank otock,
Li " Certificates, Bills of Exchange, or Notes, Houses, Lands,
Lotts'or Merchandize of any kind, or to obtain Money
on deposit of property.
WILLIAM BLACKBURN,
Late 4'gent for the Cannl Lottery Company.
0- Shares an Tickets in the late Newport Long |
Wharf, Hotel and Public School Lottery examined ; a ;
complete lift of all the prizes haying been received »t 1
this eflice.
June 6. w&s
Haxnuel Richardet*
"H ESPECTFULLY informs the 'Gentlemen O
Merchant*, thtt he has this day opened th«: CITY
TAVERN and MERGH AN I' 3 COFFEEHOUSfi in the
city 0/ wh
The Room 'will be furnilhed with all the u nc
daily papers published irt Philadelphia, N-w-York, Bos- S
ton Baltimore,together with tholecf thejJfin^ip^l-com-
in rcial cities- <>f will be regularly filed 1
an<£ none pcryjtie \ to be taken away on any accrvunt.
•.v toilet, Sj3upe«, j-liie-, lee Creams, and a variety 1
of Tr n'c> i .rqiiof.: roi/. 'ber with rhe ufaal refreihmems. r
will .vr al'. '.im« b rrocierert at the !»r. . '
j Gentlemen may depen lon being accommodated with
| th. "lioieMt el Wine*, Spirituous Liquors, and the moil -
| approved Milt Liquors f r»ir Loi; lon anil o'her breweries.
The Larder will befupplied with the prime and earliest
productions oi the Srafon.
Large and small Parties, or fmgle Gentlemen, may be j
accommodated with Break fills, Dinnrt, or Suppers, at
j hours mo l conv nient •o themfelves—- ( n ld Collation is
regularly kept lor coijveriency, the B.iidf Fare to be had
' , at the, bar
I The Lodging Rooms will be compl te'y lurnifhed, and
the utmofl attention paid to cleanliness, aud v very other
1 j requifjje.
j gj" S.*Muct Richardet will behappyto receive, and
i execate the commands of his Friends, and the Public at .
. large; and vj,th graritude for their favours, he pledges
hitnfel 1 ' that nqthiig on his part Ibalibe wanting to pre- _
serve that patronage with which he has been so diflinguilh
ingly honored.
Philadelphia, April 19. eo T
-..via.l. ~1.11. .1. .«... . —_ '
PiiUJp' NicKiin LO.
Hjrs FOR a ALB, Ct
Souch6tip _ hi
s Hyfoij Skin ) { w
Young Hyson > FRESH TEAS | w
Hyfo? 2nd \ |l«
Irapef.al ■*
i ■ ' Yellow Nankeens ;, . ;
Wftna . Vare, assorted in Boxes and Chefls v "
| Ouir'.filver
13 nc' an no Handkerchiefs of excellent qiality iu
cherts
L adon Market 1 MADEIRA WINE
London.particular >in pipes, hoetfheads, &
New-York Market J quarter caiks
TenerifFe \Vi;.e in pip-s and hog&eads
Sugar Candy by the Box
Sail Canvas No. 1 a 8
Lead ip sheets .
» 3 Casks rif i utlery afTortetl c
A few cherts of Mancheiler Goods, aflbrted.thiek- a
sets, cords, striped Nankeens, &c. ia
3 Small packages of black sewing-silks 1,
8 Tierces Virginia Snake-root. 'I
Nails alTortcd in caflis d
Julv t'B ' mwSif n
O i Vlonday next, (July,) *
j Will be landed at South llreet wln.-J, ihe cargoes o\ Superb v
Wrft Indian and Isabella, from Jamaica and Havanna, con a
filling of C
Molasses in Hogsheads,
Col Fee in hogsheads, barrels & baa;s, "
FGR SALR BY p
PETER BLIGHT, ;;
— - -Who hamlio (9* -
A quantity of Jamaica GINGER,
; cr:° & j - i
And 150 boxes Kambro* GL ASS, )by 9, will ' !
be foid cheap. S
July eo diot & tuth & s »ot r
r To be fold, (
A PLANTATION, in the town of Woodbury, coun
ty of Gloutertvr, and state of New-Jersey, contain
ing about one hundred and fifty acres ; a suitable propor
'■ tion o which is woodland and improved meadow. A
•- great part of th« arable land is in a high state of cultiva
tion, and very natural to the production of Red Clo.yer.
On frid plantation there is a genteel two-story brick house, .
with four rooms on a floor, and a good dry cellar under 1
the whole» together with a barn, corn-cribs and carriage- 1
-heufe I he'g rden is large, and contains a good collec '
tion of the bell kinds of gristed and inoculated fruit trees ; '
■ the orchard confilL of about three hundred grafted app 1
I trees. Any person m lined to purchase said premiles, may '
!be informed ef the terms by applying to • '
aJ Andrew Hunter. ,
_Jtiy_29 : F (
Asjheton an I James Humphreys, '
r J CONVEYANCER S, ,
HAVE removed their office to No. 6i, Walnut-street,
next door but two to the corner of Dock-flrcet, ,
where all INSTRUMENTS IN WRITING art drawn at
a moderate charge with care, accuracy and dispatch.—
Thi>y KLewife buy and fell Real Estates upon commis
sions, and procure Vtoney upon Loan on good security.—
The business of an A FTORNEY AT LAW and NO I'A
RY PUBLIC is also tranfailed at the said office as usual
_ by . ASSHETON HUMPHREYS.
N. tl. Good Notes discounted.
July 5. eo6w
nl For Sale,
A Valuable Grift and Saw Mill,
IN New Jeifey, near the Forks of Little Egg-Harbour.
Fhe Grift Millis sixty by forty feet, two water wheels,
and calculated for four run of Stones, with screen, fans
and boultir.g-cloths, &c. The Saw-Mill has two
capable of cutting five to 6 100 thousand feet of Boards per
year. A valuable piece ef Cedar Swamp within a mile
. 2 \ and a half of the Mill, and within three quarters of a mile
jof a Landing The Lumber, &c. may be taken by water
from the mill tail.
ALSO rOR SALE,
Several Valuable Tra&sof Land,
_ In Pennsylvania, for all of which payment will be
~ ed in the notes of Messrs. Morris and Nicholfo'a, or in
Cash.
jFor further information apply to the Printer.
;a- May 17. aaw
00 Plans of the city of Philadelphia,
or Including the Northern Liberties and diftrifl of
:k, Southwark;
ds, Published, and fold by
ey BENJAMIN DAVIES,
No. 68, High street,
i(Priee one dollar.)
THIS plan is s6 inches fauare, and has been en
ng graved by one of the firft artists in the city, from a bt'
;a and accurate survey. Purchasers are entitled to a parrv
st phlet with each plat), giving " some account of the
citv, its population, trade, government, &c.
July 19 tafcftf
George Dobson,
BFGS leave to inform the Store Keepers in Town a u*
.Countrv, that he has removed fro n M*rke*-S;rc<.i *
N°* 25, south Third-street,
where he is opening a Large and Elegant AlTorcment the
undermcniiorftd article*-—-via.
Superfine LondonC!r>thsand KLerlevmcret,
York*hiie U cond Do. Do.
Ehftic do. do.
Uix'd'and tflue Coatings -
Fhnp.cL's, &c.
Manchc-flfe* Wnted CajticOe*,
Xon4<"/tTChint dfito,
c'uto fur\i!:uTes,
India \ data.
Lo«j C ffd'es, Raftas, Baiti!)as& ronj«vteilM>
4-4 5"1 Superfine India Book ttdtlinH
and 9-8 !«d a ><>h Kandkercnurfa,
4-4 artel 9- 8 •
4-4 6-4 n'ain cio M.i&tns,
4-4 & 6 4 B-icilh Jac(>ne«s f
6-4 H> ftilh Checks and brripea,
4-4 nUa do. do do.
4 T 4dt'?r> ChiH'>es, Madras Handkerchiefs. Sec.
i A tarije aff»ntsimt ot figur'd a:»d lain Musti neU,
Q i'ltings, Dimities, and *triped Nankeens,
Fancy vVatUcoatings
[ Gin- hams ot the 6yll Quality, fubjeft to Drawbacks
India Nankeens,
i Mc-n'S Whirtaiwi coloured Si?k tiockings.
M'a> <)
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RAN awajtthi morning from the Subscriber* ftffag
in the county of Mosnrouth Nev/-J.rfey, a rem >
v»biy black Negri) M?.n, r.a:i;ed BEN— 46 years
age, 5 leet <> or 10 inches high, stout made, bald on the
crown of his head ; had on and took with him a grey
Ihomcfpun coating coat and jacket, a brown cloth coat*
with a black collar/homsfpun tow shirts trowfers;
with other shirts aad lma-1 clo»athti wb ch cannot be ei U
mevated. He is a coinplaifar«t, artful and deceitFul fellow- r
Whoever will take up and fecare the said Runaway ,'so
that his owner m y him a>aiw, fliall have the
w'ardf and rcafouabie charges if homtr.
Eljba Lawrance.
u Tiity 28—Atig-s 3 i '.V
, For Sale,
A LARGE ELEGANT AMD WELL fINISSEO
Th:ec-ftory Brick House,
(The late refideilce of General Walter Stewart)
WITH a LOt' ef GROL'ND thereuntobelor.ginj;,
the weft fide ef Third-street, near Unidu- .et
containing in front 31 feet, ahd in 100 feet, to ..ft
alley leading into Union-ftrcet. The houle is 32 feet front
1 and 50 feet djep ; rhe several rooms conttiined in it ars
large commodious, andconipletely'fimfhed; the tyvo B, A
lories.are each 13 feet high; here are los f
doors in the hotfe 5 a geometrical ilaircale, withmahega*
ny rails and a g«od Jky-ligiit. Thel Tfchen is in the eeil»
■■ ar, which is fpaciou*. and convenient, and finifhed with us
J oven, itew-holes and pantrits, a fervanti' haVl and larpt
> wine-cellar, adjoining the kitchen, in front of which i- »»
1 area in which there is a pump The yard is vaulted.
Communicating with the said building isa neat three-dory
brick hoi/fe, on the north fide of Union-street, cennm
ing 30 feet front by 10 feet deep; the lower p3-t of whiclx
') is at present. occupied as a "and the upper
part divided into well-fini(hed large chambers. Thishcu r o
may at a small expense be converted into a conver.i. Nt
dwelling : The street door is very handsome, and the front
and back have Venetian wihdow-ihutters. Adjoining the
last hftufe, upon the lot belonging to the firft, are < reeled
bathing-rooms, &c. There are likewise very go"d coach*
house and ftable6 finifhed equal (or nearly so) with anv
the city, on a lot containing on Union llreet 30 feet, and
jj in depth on the wall fide of said alley 52 feet. There are
good cellars ortdei the whole of the buildings, and a wine
room over part <<f theftabte, with a hay-loft over the re- .
maiiider. Tor further particulars enquire of
EDWARD BOMS LL & Co.
At their Office No. 64 Ooek-Hreet. between Walnu- & Pear
i- eo streets.
a 6th month 24th, 1796
a JOHN PAUL JONES.
r INFORMATION is hereby given, that the late John
e i Paul Jones "was a proprietor of fire (hares (amonnt»
er ' iilg to ahout 5867 teres) in a trjft of land purchased by
e . the Ohio Company, in the territory of the United States
c of ' hierica, north-weft of the river Ohio ; and that his
3 . heirs, or legal representative, on application to the d : ret»
tors of said eompany, at Marietta in the territory a■
:iV said, will receive a deed of the said five shares, or rights
of land.
The application may made personally or by an agent,-
but proper documents must be produced to prove thfc
_ claimant or claimants the legal heirs or reprel'entative of
the said Jones
n.«. As it is not known in whit country the person
©r perfonsinterefled rctide.it will be ana<9 nfhenevolenn
et ' in eyery Printer in Arrieriea and Europe, who shall iofcrc
et ' this in his paper.
at In behalf of the directors of the Ohio Company,
- RCTI'US PUTNAM.
Marietta.May 10,1796'. [June j pwow
lai Just Publilhed,
by THOMAS dobso^,
At tjie Stone House, As- 5$ South Sccond Street,
neatly printed in one volume quartp, pi ice li*
dollars the fine paper, or five dollars the com*
man:
u , r s " The Four Gospels,
TR AVLLATBD f. OMTh f GR.EFK;
nd With preliminary DifTerta ions, and Notes critical and et-.
ser pfanatory.
ile By GEORGE CAMPBELL, D. D. P. R S.
'fe (sfc. Principal of MarifcLal College,-/ierdeen.
ter The chatafter of the author,foi aeioeiirfa
and erudition has been rftablilV.ed by his elfay or!
miracles in answer to p.ivid Hu > c," the grta
iv _ masterpiece of the kind ever publilhed, and by K't
" Philosophy of Rhetoric," and to the roeri: ui*
the present work, the rcfult of nearly forty year#
ilody and application, and the fubilance at i is
e-ourfe of leftutes in hi, official capacity, jfift
icvieweishave given ample testimony, but their r.c
j. eount, however hdnorable to the wotk, is too looy
for a place in this advertifeni-ut, the wotk hotvrv
er is now presented in an American edition at ro
move than half the price of rhe London copy.
July 20. itv
Landing,
atr From on board the Schooner Expedition,
Z St. Croix. Rum&Sngar,
For Sale by F. COPPINGHR,
f Asg.»« S *Si Soutb Fic»nt-ltr»'.'.
1WAS 111 N'G TO N LOITERY.
A I.i/l of Prizes ■n.it Blanks in the Wa/hingion
Lottery Nt>. 2.
TENTH DAY'S DRAWING.
796 1 14175 25 26606 39000
800- 35:4 10 761 150
1299 10 16225 10 27074 258
351 484 504 837 10
586 17201 10 594 40121
2114 307 782 10 185 10 '
621 358 * 28267. 732
4024 530 292 4 16 79
238 811 364 807
419 1917J 10 29114 10 42781 10
6310 20082 326 4349°
5769 222 30808, 839 10
7550 269 10 964 975
750 §>399 3 20 97 10 44 21 4
8159 10 485 852 9?s 2 °
215 '654 26 33686 a 6? 10
715 10 896 10 34303 i D 583
9120 21582 826 849 JO
94$ 670 35-263 10 47229 10
10894 22875 364.74 77 1
12132 23221 37206* 48050 20
171 24372 869 49255
231 20 983 38155 428 10
s 1393 1 10 25621 . 638 10 780 10
14016 900 755 9 ot
hlkventh hay's drawing —AUGUST 8.
No. Dols. No. Pols. No.Dols. No.Dols.No.Doli. No.Dols.
454 s s4° "> «£ a 47 »3°7' 33°99 <I' 34 8 10
lo gooi 812 388 'go 477
765 »i» J6047 707 303 10 4237s
1032 115 §97 7»° 393 7**
#36 «8D 10 17651 ' 748 9'4
*<>4» 4«o 820 i& 897 34914 43'9*
149 471 20 939 a4°7' 354*5 10 4°6 1°
978 >®855 19120 50110" 755 8,2
3004 lo 468 bio 644 7® l 10
156 gsg 10 713 10 96° 931
«i 6 >1937 4 66 3 6s 7 2 >044740
326 10 12713 883 to 479 273-20 832
5*24 10 13165 »° 26568 690 45 1 97
179 176 10 20138 20 27129 37878 46278
416 321 10 577 5 a 5 3 8i0 5 10 2 %
' 612610 40510 645 95#' 'y 7®7 29410
539 i° 543 7141028128 908 32410
7013 603 10 866 618 3924s 100 834 10
018 14001 25 21041 xo 6sß , 3'£ 10 47782 io
S4 i 10 068 10 367 2934910. "3* 8 3 2 10
611 198 5031031900 9705048183 i«
717 10 291 i» 562 32528 40330 5 86 16
®'5S 7®' 9®9 ,or 744 5 8t 7'5
367 822 220*21 923 41162 829
469 *ji2s lo #86 9§2 io 257 49944
Errors, corrre&ed in the publication of the 3th and 9th
day's drawing, viz. for 1 read 17369 —for 14635
12633—f0r I ill 2 read XTII2.
&T AN ARTIST,
ReJiJent at Mr. Oellers's Hotel,
MINIATURE t IK EN E S SES
ARE taken and executed in that elegant and delicate
stile, which is so necessary to render a Miniature Pic
ture an interesting jewel.
He* will warrant a strong and indisputable refem
blanca; and he takes the liberty to lay before the public
of this place his most earnefl intention to deserve their pa
tronage by his bell' endeavors to please.
N. B. Specimens are to be seen.
May I». §
INFORMATION
IS yiven daily of the drawing of tbe WASHINGTON
LOTTERY, at the Office
No. 147 Chefnut-fireet,
Fourth and.Eifth streets. Also, where Tickets
may y.et be had. Aug. 15. eo
0- The Eleventh day's drawing is arrived.
— — 7
Auction Sales.
Cargo of the ship Union Fraterna,
from Leghorn.
OH Friday commenced the sale (and will be continued
*t Meflr*. Rofs & Simfon's wharf, from to day 'till
the whole is fold) of the cargo of the Venetian (hip
Union Fraterna, from Leghorn, confiiling of the follow
ing articles.
Florence Oil in cases of 12 bottles, ami-flalks of jo
Caflile Soap in cases
Tallow Candles
Anchovies . J
Capers '
'Olives
Juniper Berries in bales
Manna, Flake,
Ditto, in forts
Almonds
Permefan Cheese
French Claret, in calks
* Ditto, in bottles
Twine
Hair-Powder
Pomatum. -
The conditions of sale will be—all sums under 500
dollars, to be paid in cafli : from 500 to 1000 dollars in
approved notes at 60 days: from 1000 dollars upwards,
in approved endorsed notes at 90 and .120 days.
Edward Fox, Audtioneer.
Anguft 9 $
Jndia Goods at Au&ion.
ON Friday neit, at 10 o'cloekin the morping, -will be
fold at auction, at No. 56 South Front-ftrect, about
60 bales of India white Goods, entitled to the drawback,
ceniilling of—
Long' Cloth* *
Baftas
Gurraha
Emertie|
Coflacs
Humhums
Tanjibs
Mull Mulls.
EdwaTd Fox, Au&'r.
4,
Aug.i a. ,
bhcrry Wine.
-%• \
% NOW LANDING,
FROM the ship General Washington, at Rice-street
wJurf, and WILL BE SOLD BY AUCTION,
" ' On Wtdmfd*Fi*hr ~
A.t 10 o'clock in the morning, for approved nates at
SIX MONTHSj
Four hundred Quarter-Calks of
S HERRI W / N'E.
Edward-Fox, Auctioneer.
Aug. IJ;
Foreign Intelligence.
From London and P a P tn received by the
flip Farmer, from London, andjt™
late «
LONDON, June 4.
Tefterday several private letters were received
from India, brought over in the American {hip
Major Pinckney, Hyatt, arrived at Dover from
Bengal. Theie were various reports in circulation
concerning unpleasant news from this quarter cf
the world, which ftemed to be countenanced by
a sudden fall of India stock. It was infilled that
the rpifrit of mutiny had rather increased than dL
-1 minilhed among the native troops in lnJia. Al
though wc fear that there is foms'foundation for,
reports of this nature, we could not learn any pre
cise fads on which to form an accurate judgment.
No official adviccs were received.
[ PARIS, May 14.
' The partisans of the conspirators endeavoured
yesterday to coll«6l some seditious groupes j they
also made an attempt to poflefs themselves of a
confideVable national worklhop, but all their efforts
have failed of fucccfs.
At the elofe of a fitting of the general secret
committee of the wood and timber-mejahants, fire
wood rose from Bto 10,000 livres. The Louis
d'or was, the day before yesterday, at 13,000 li
vres, and yesterday at 10,060. Sugar has rose
from 500 to 1000 livres p"er pound ; bread from
45 to 100 livres } and candles from 150 to 300
livres.
Ifabeau, Secretary-General in the department
for foreign affairs, has been turned out of by
order of the Dive&ory ; and we understand, that
a mandate of arrest is issued against him. Boifha
gery and Bonneville, two chiefs of the Chouans,
have been killed.
Spain is fitting out 50 "ships of the line, and
Holland 25. The infurreftion is complete in Cor
sica. Tavera, a member of the Parliament jpf that
Island, is at the head of the insurgents, whom-our
successes in Italy irtfpired with greater Ijpld
nefs. They have rendered themselves mailers of
the height of Tichine, in which position they in
teriupt all communication between St.
and Baftia. A report is also current, that several
magazines have been fire'd, and that disturbances
have broke out at Nebbio.
May 27.
The Louis d'Or has got up again to 12,000 li
vres.
The Spanflh ambassador wilhea to take a part in
the negociations for a treaty of peace with Sardi
nia ; but it was not thought proper to postpone
the conclusion of that treaty, until he (hould have
received from Madrid the powers necessary far that
purpose.
May 28.
The Dire&ory has dismissed 150 commissaries in
the department of Saone and Loire. Considera
ble betts are offered that a general peace will take
pla6e within the next two months.
The tribunal of cassation has reversed the sen
tence, by which Richer Serizy was acquitted.
A. courier from Italy ha« brought tli* important
intelligence, that the tri-coloured flSg is flying at
Milan, Pavia, Como, and all over Lombardy.
A placard has been polled up in this metropolis,
containing the following lines: " Cwjiitution of
'793 —Liberty and Equality—and General Happi
ness."
May ig.
Latters from Marseilles (late, that the insurgents
"in Corsica have rendered themselves masters of the
heights and suburbs of Ajaccio, and fcjit deputies
to Salicetti at Savona.
The Lous-d'or has risen as high as 13,000 li
vres, and the price of provisions encreafes in the
fame proportion. The confpiiators hope, that the
time, when the aflignats (hall have been replaced
by will highly favour the execution of
their plans.
The Dire£lory has dismissed the third - munici
pality of Paris, which was composed of patriots of
1789.
May 31.
Some small groupes of anarchlfts are observed in
different pans of this city ; but they are ck>&)y
watched.
On the 23d of last month a division of French
frigates arrived at Oftend from Havre-de-Grace,
in order to join admiral Vanftabel in the Scheldt,
and protest the maritime trade against the Eaglilh.
DUBLIN, May 30.
On Saturday Mr. Shaw (one of the people
called Quakers) who has been confined some time
in Newgate, was brought into court, and arraign
ed at the bai on a charge of high trealon. *
HAGUE, May 28.
On the 25th inft. and the following days, the
French troops marched into Amsterdam, and all
remained quiet in that city. The fittings of the
Convention were very turbulent, on account of
this march of the French troops, but all was in
vain. General Bournonville has also demanded,
that some French Officer (hould be appointed Go
vernoi of Amsterdam ; but this demand has not yet
been complied with.
PARIS, June 2.
The Proclamation of Buonaparte, written in
the stile of Hannibal, and in similar circumtlances,
announces to his foldiere his march to Rome ; and
we do not fee at prefe«t any circumstances that can
prevent his triumphant march. He is now in the
dominions of the Pope, who can only oppofepray
ers to our triumphant armies.
It still is affirmed that we have entered Leghorn.
: ExtraS of a- letter from the Commander in Chief,
Buonaparte, to the Executive DireSory.
Milan, 3d Priarial, (May 22).
" The courier is arrived, Citiien dire&ors, who
left Paris oti the 26th, with thcarticles of the glo
rffius Peace that you have conclude with the
Ki«g of Sardinia, for which I beg you will accept
r thanks.
" The troops are fatisfied.
'< I imagine thntp« r arm; o\i t> e Rhniewill i
not ptaait 10 weaken himlclf too ,
much on fide*
..jstfu will find fubjoi'i ed ah Address to the ar- i
with the Sufpenfinn of Aims that has
been granted to the Duke ps Mocfena.
(Signed) " BUONAPARTE."
Letter of the Adjutant-General.
Head Quarters at Milan, 2 Prairial. i
" The rapid progrsfs 1 havo madfcfor the lift
fortnight, has not left me one moment s Icifure. I
have proceeded from Chamberry to Plaifance, to ;
Pizitig Litono, returned to Chamberry, and in 15 .1
days joined the army at Milan, If my march was 1
rapid, that of the army of Milan was not less so. 1
It has gained, and is daily gaining, fuccefies at 1
which Europe mull look with cenfternation. Ihe i
battle of Lodi, which was obtained by one of these
strokes of audacity sb peculiar to Frenchmen, affu- .
red us vh« conquest of the whole ot the Milanele. <
« In that country we find immenle resources of ]
tvfcry kind. Oura-my which entered Italy, in a 1
very enfeebled condition, is now restored, and in 1
•the finell situation. Beaulieu confounded, is indo- 1
fed in the marsh of Mantua. We proceed in quest i
of him, and (hall notgive him a moment's repose. 1
The Auftriam army njuft be totally destroyed. 1
This obdacle being removed, we Jhall find no diffi- I
culty in marching to the Capitol. The entree of t
the French -army into Milan wai brilliant Xn th<
extreme, the acclamations of the people were frf-o- <
digious in the extreme ; and the inhabitants after 1
flocking to view the victorious troops, spent the reft (
of the evening in balls, suppers, and entettainments.
The national cockade was mounted, and a national ;
guard formed to do duty with the troops. Some
ruffians attempted to pillage during the tumult, but :
the mod dangerous were apprehended. A munici- 1
pality was formed of the mod rel'peftable eitizens, \
and what is molt extraordinary a Duke is at their
head. '
" The army obfei ves the drifted'difcipline. It ]
is scarcely observed in Milan that the peopla are in 1
a conquered city, and that ij} the siege of the caf- (
tie the enemy left 2006 men who may beconfider- i
ed as lod." I '
The following is a lift of the various magazines! t
stores, &c. which the Auftrhns left belling them at ]
Pavia. ll
Efcfts left in the Magazines of by the\ 1
Austrian» )
Wheat, 340 sacks; wheaten flour, 4261 quin
tals ; rye, 4556 sacks; in flour ditto 17 13 quintals ;
barley, 1730 bushels ; forage, 900 quintals ; oats,
17,215 bushels ; draw, 200 quintals ; draw beds,
17,552 ; Indian corn, 23,780 bushels ; flourcf do
106 bushels; Woollen cloth, 13,415 pieces ; covers,
22,153 » pillows, 2,190 ; mattrafTes, 1042 ; fire
wood to light, 4,273 ; wool, 1501b. wood to burn,
15,880 measures; empty sacks, 15,470.
A great number of tons of fliovels, pick-axes, f\
kettles, and other utensils. j/ 1
CAMBRIDGE, May 28.
ELECTIONS USELESS ! 1
The amazing ihcreafe of public spirit fi'nce the
diflblution of Parliament, seems to-be sure to con- 1
tradift this idea, The columns of some of the
Newspapers teem with warm expreflionsof concern-.
soTs tkc p ttolie welfare 1 and Candidate* rcpcAt
their septennial ritual with sb much fervour, that
for a moment one really is apt to think them serious, !
while they so devoutly talk of " guarding our rights |
fnd liberties,'' " prejerving our constitution invio
late, &c. &c.
Yet 1 repeat—Eledions are useless ! and I adduce
the following pafTage from the life of Lord Chat
ham as a proof:
"In Match, 1764, Mr. Pelham died—Mr. ,
Fox (afterwards Lord Holland) wished to succeed
Mr. Pelham as Secretary of State, and it is very ,
probable that his request would have been granted, 1
had he not infided upon having the management of
the House of the Commons, which the Duke of
Newcastle refofed ■! ' (
" The management of the House of Commons, ,
(as it is called) is a confidential department un
known to the conditution. Ia the public accounts
it is itnmerfed under the head of Secret Service. ,
" It is usually given to the Secretary of State, ,
when that pod is filled by a Commoner. The bu
siness of the department is to diftrißute, with art '
and policy, amongst the members who have no ,
odenlible places, funis of money for their support .
during the ; besides contrails, Lottery Tick
ets, and other douceurs, it is no nuconjmon cir
cumstance at the end of a feflion, for a gentleman
to receive five hundred or a thousand pounds for ,
his services." [
Anecdotes ef the Earl of Chatham, Vol. I, p. 259. ,
Of what use then ar« Elections ? If you ele<& aa
honed man, his virtue i« endangered ; if a wife
man, his voice is not heard ? for the voice of wis
dom has but a poor chance again ft all powerful
, gold—that bright evidence ! which, with the ve
locity of lightening, daits convidhon into waver
ing minds.
What makes all do£trines plain and clear,
About five hundred pounds a-ycar;
And which was prov'd true before.
Prov'd falte again ?—Five hundred more !
For my part, while things are so managed, I
fltall not vote at all, though J
A FREEHOLDER.
On Wednesday lad the Eleflion came on for the
city of Norwich, when the Hon. Henry Hobart,
and the Right Hon. W. Wyndham, had been no
minated, a poll was demanded for Bartlett Qjnney,
Esq. at the alofa of which the numbers were,
For Mr. Hobart 1622
Wyndham — 1159
Gurney — 1076
When it is considered, that only four dayselapf
ed feetween the arrival ot the writ, and the day of
, eleaion, that the friends of Mr. Gurney had but
24 hours to carry on their canvas, that their rel'olu
tion of not procuring votes by threats, promises, or
» rewards, was ftriftly adhered to ; and that the War
■ Miniftcr carried his election by dint of Government
: influence, corruption, and by out-votes, (of the re
t fident votes, Mr. G. having a majority of 112);
Mr. Wy ndham has little reason to boad of his vic
tory over aa opponent, who was on a family visit
] in the North of England, and was totally igiiaunt
> of his nominatiou.
Mr. W. dreading the effe& of that -popular in
- dignation which his conduct his prudently
b forebore exposing his person during the poll, as i-;
ctlftomary on fugh occasions. Mr. Gurney was ,e
---prefented by his relttion, Mr. Hudson Gurwy,
who was received by the people at iarge wrth eve'
ry mark of the moll flattering refpedt.
t It.is a curious fa£t, and worthy of notoriety
[ that a detachnfent of Norfolk Yeomanry Cavalry'
> and the band of Norwich butchers, which yefter.'
; day attended Mr. Wyndham in his procefiion thro'
s the market-place of the city, were headed by Tbo
. mas Havers, Esq. Steward to the Duke df Nor
t folk !—The Duke is a member of the Whig Club,
: and reported to be a friend to Freedom !
; Some of those Candidates, who fat in ihe late
- Parliament, and uniformly yqteci for the continu
ance of the war, have now, from the terrors of a
f personal contest, found it politic to a pacific
i note. They are full of expressions of heartfelt gfa. •
i titude for the favours of their constituents, and de.
• voted attachment to their interests. What .weight
: is to be attached to those profeffions, their former
conduct has fuffiaiently evinced. In another Par,
. liameirt, notwithstanding all their heart-felt protef.
.' tations, the Minister will again command their at- *
f tendance and their votes.
I The Prince of Bouillon, as Commander in Chief V#
• of his Majesty's naval forces at Jersey and Gitarn
■ fey, hasiflued a Proclamation, in which, in the name
:of his Britannic Majefly, and of Louis XVIII. 4
King of France, he invites all filch French Officers
1 and Noblemen, as are able to serve, to proceed (o
: Britanny and Normandy, in order to put themfelvei 1
. at the head of the different corps of Royalists as
■ fembled in those provinces, and other dillri&s in a H
, state of itifurreftion !
Friday morning, at three o'clock, Mr. Benfon,
of Drury-lane Theatre, threw himfelf from a three
pair of flairs window at his lodgings in Brydges- *
; ltreet, and was killed on the foot. He had been
confined for some days to his bed by a fever, and it
is supposed irf 4 fit of delirium, taking advantage '
ithe absence or inattention of his attendant, effe:-
d the above melancholy and (hocking cataftro-, '
1C - '
Lord Kenyon dated on Monday at Guild-hall
*t the history of the unfortunate Wefton had
:en sent to him by a Rev. Dr. of Divinity. That
story was dreadful : Wefton nad got upwards of *,
3,0001. and at different times had loft 46,000!. at
ay ; 70001. of which he had loft in one night at
aro.
LIVERPOOL, May i 2.
On Tuesday fe'nnight tjie Grand Tunnel or fub
rraneous aqueduct, on the Leeds and Liverpool
anal, at Foulridge, between Coin and Bnrnley,
as opened, when the packet boats and several of
le vessels belonging to-the Leeds and Burnley U
...0n company, a number of Ladies and Gentlemen,
attended by a grand band of music, palled through
it, and proceeded down to Burnley, accompanied
the vrhole way by vast crowds of people, whoex
: pressed their great fatisfa&ion at this promifirigcir
• cumftance to the commerce ofthat part of the king.
: dom, with repeatejl and loud huzzas. And what
■. adds to this happy circumftanee, one of the vtfltds
s- wzrS" rrTrrrrty-iaTfc'n-gmjT different kinds of grain.
t This great tunnel, which is 1630 yards in length
1 begins about one mile from Colne,. and ends at a
' bout one tAile from Burnley, has been upwards of
5 years in completing, and we may form some idea
of the expence in making thereof from thecir?i\m
• ftaßce of an Inch having -been offered
■ to any company that wolld undertake ir.
The circulating fpccie in Great Britain has been p* f }
• eflimated by the moll accurate calculations, to a- /
I mount at the uimoft from 25,000,000!. to 30,000,
' 0001. and bank paper, bankers, and private paper,
> to about 72,000,0001. '
' From the Morning Chronicle of May 13.
Mr. Hastings fays, that a.feat in the Hosfe of
Commons is not an object ol his ambitions It is
> therefore'untrue that he is to be a Candidate any
' where. v • y[
> It was erropeotifly dated in the Times a few
days since, that " President Walhington would re
> tire on the 4th of November next, and that Mr.
Jefferfon would probably succeed him."
The term foe which the President was chofelt
' does not. expire until the March, 1797» f
: and it is thought more probable that Mr. lav or
• Mr. Adams will be his fuccaffor, unless he (hall
■ chufe to resume the high office.
1 Congress have passed an aft guaranteeing the
r payment of intefeft on a very corifiderable loan for
the'purpofcof completing the buildings for theae
• commodation of the President and the two branch
-1 es of the Legislature in the Federal City.
: The florid fpeechirs of Mr, Pitt, and the uniform
" folly of his war arrangments, would induce one to
think that his friend Mr. Burke had him in his eye
■ when he wrote, "there may be a great deal of
' eloquence with very little wfdom." . ■
The Methodists have been raising money to (end
out mifiionaries to" various parts of Africa, to cm
vert the-heathen to-Chrittiaiiity. la Europe it.r»
thoupj&t best to propagate Chrlftianity by fire ami
t fiuori}. . '?
Administration in Ireland are determined to take
no flep in the affair of national education. 1 hey
are light. What possible good could result (an
: their mouth-piece aflo) from enabling a tay.or to
• wi Cure his cuftotner with a quadrant ?
The Pope, poor man 1 seems to be brought ti»
. a strange pass : he has to choose between Heretic*
and Atbeifts for allies, and hitherto he has an vi- •
invoked St• Peter for aflifl3ncc,.
, To BE Sold,
iA, No. »8, North S«onJ-Street, a*J byfeveral >/ |
: -..rjnsfms gSs
' 'i| *i&ISKRSISSiSff
ceffary for the prattice. , , , tcc th, b[«d,
t 'ailv ufeful in relieving pains in the bead, . , '
- stomach, back, rbeam»ti f m«, ptf .
Notwittftanding the utility " F j rvc ,y other
' fumed but there arc cases in wjiich »h» >
ieme<lv ■ fonieti'mc* fail. 1
t June 8,
Junc'i 8,_ ■- 1 * T - —■
GAZETII oftht UNITED STATES.
PHILADELPHIA-.
MOND/A EVENING, AUGUST 15.
Bv the arrival of a veflel at Wilmington, in 41 days
from Havre-de-Grace, wehave receivtS from aCorref
pondent at Paris files of Le Mejfager du Soir and feve
•ralother Paris papers, compleat to June 4. Tho 5 lift
so late as papers before received, they may serve to fill
up many chasms in cur intelligence from thence. We (
ftiall occasionally detail from them filch articles as ap
pear to be interesting. , '
SUSPENSION OF KOSTIIITIES. '
We hear that a vessel is arrived at Baltimore, '
from London, and has brought pape.s to June 28, 1
containing ace*unts of a deflation of Hoftilitic* 1
between, prance atid Auftri* • ■■ that M,mheim,
and some other strong potts were delivered up byJ '
the latter as pledges, 'till a peace lli It oe concluded.'
BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
NEW-YORK, August. 13.
We learn from the weltern counties of this (late,
that the grass and wheafharvefts have been very
abundant; and that thejr expeftto receive ca(h for
their beef at the western poll?, now in pwffeffiyii
of the Americans.
CapU Hubbel, arrived yesterday, in t8 days
froifl St. Thomas, informs, that on the 12th July,
an engagement took place off the island of St. Mai
tins, between a French frigate of 44 guns, and
two Englifli sloops of war, one of 26, and the o
ther of 28 guns; but the Frenchmen beat them
off. Shortly after an English Irigate of 32 guns
bore down upon her, but a squall coming on sepa
rated them.
BOSTON, August 9.
Capt. Felt, arrived yesterday in 53 days from
Cadiz. Admiral Richery with his fleet was (till
* "lying there, though the English fleet had cleDfted
from cruizing-before the hatbour. Admiral Rich
ery, it was said, was waiting for orders from France.
The Spaniards were very averse to any measures
{hat might incur a war with England; and were
determined to be extremely ex<i& in observing their
neutral duties, and to avoid the charge of partial
ity.
Capt. M'Lellan, 8 days from Bermuda, informs
us. that the Bermudiahs are actually quitting she
bnfinefs of privateering, which they have so infa-
Wufly profevuted'tt) the detriment of our com
merce for a long period. Most of their privateers
are already hauled up, and they dismantle everyone
agitarrivesj Thereafon of this sudden change of
condudt, is the panic by which they are ftruclj by
the news of the reversal of some of their Vice
■ Arairalty decrees. Reports were current, that
writs of attachment had arrived, and weie about
being executed upon the property of some . of the
principal privateerfmen. v
It was said that a epidemic fevei raged with
. violence at the town of Somerset.
fjL Capt. Cottle has arrived from Martinique, since
our lad, in 22 days paffa_g£. Nothing of material
importance had occurred, or war fcwwn
General Abercrombie was ft ill at the island. No
particular expedition was talked of. The Enghlh
at St. Lucia were much annoyed by the runaway
blacks, mulattoes and the French who escaped to
the mountains on the capture of the island. They
commit continual violences, with almost complete
impunity, flying .to the bufheg afterthe perpetration
of any atrocity. Markets were bad.
,- SALEM (Mass) August 9.
Capt. John Barton, fiom Rochcfort, informs,
that the celebiated Captain Barney, late of. Bal
timore, has the command of a fquaijron of frigates,
eight in number, that were to fail in a few days
from that port on a fee ret expedition, and were to
be joined by three more from an adjacent port,' It
was conjectured the Weft-Indies was their dedica
tion. Captain Barney has often declared his anxi
ous desire of vifitingthat " feat of infamy," Ber
muda; and is may not be a falfe prophecy to pre
dift the long-wilhed for deft rudion of this place
by the above squadron ; as Captain B. has a few
atreai ages'to pay to some of the inhabitants of this
iflan/t. ... —
[Captain John Barton, lately from France, has
furniftied us with a file of French papers for the
months of April and May. They are not so late
by twenty days as some we have fees, but they
contain the following accounts.] *
PARIS, April 9.
There is a letter of Gen. Willet tp Hoche,
printed, which contains the most severe reproaches
againit that officer for treachery. He fays, I had
nothing to do, but fight. Upon your orders I
have acccpted their fubmifiions, and having fubtnit
you have ordered them to be arretted !
fs " J The celebrated astronomer, De La Lande, has
irckoned the inhabitants of our globe atathoufand
V j jnillions. I Pro'ny fixes the population of t France °at
twenty-five millions, fix hundred thousand.
May 25.
A writer observes, that of the* late, confpkacy
in Pjiris, the administration had shewn every thing
but the head. Ip regard to their own proclama
tion, that they seem bound to (hew tire whole, that*
- the public may do honor to their discovery, and
may know the greatness of their salvation.
May 28.
y Beaulieu has flc i. 'He inundated all the country,
to avoid our pursuits. The inhabitants, whom he
Las almost ruined by this inundation, speak of him
with the greatest rcfentment.
FRANKFORT.
We hear from Vienna that the Famous Baron de
Tauferer, who had been tried, since his recall from
tjie army of Italy, lias been sent a" prisoner to Al
muU.
ROME.
The holy facramcnt 7>aß been brought out, and
the bells are slj founding, the relics are carried
round the city,- that God might prevent Buona
parte from coming to Rome.
GENOA, May 6. .
General Laharp# has puMifheJ a proclamation
of April 27, addressed to the inhabitants of d'Al
ba, Mondovl and Aqui, by which he direfta' all
the communes who are in favor of republican orin
ciplcs, to give proof of it, by their compliance
with the following articles—
1. There (hall be raised in the communes, a tree
of liberty, ov?r which (hall be mounted a red cap.
The tri coloured flag (hall be displayed from the
steeples, the Cyndic and Counsellors (hall wear a
Hi-coloured scars, and all the people a national
cockade.
2. The resident priest (hall make a discourse to
his parishioners upon the desire of the French to
live ivi peace with the Piedmontefe. He (hall allure
the people of the free enjoyment of religion,
and of the f.tfely of their persons and property.
exhort them to conform fttiftly to the
law.
3. No perfan (hall be obliged to pay to the no
bles, or any person employed in the government*
any contribution under any pretence whatever.
4 Every good citizen and friend of peace, (hall
recal his friends from the service of the enemv.
5. All the communes (hall communicate this
proclamation to each other, and aflift its execution.
All who counteradl it, (hall be deemed enemies of
the French Republic.
6. The General declares him unworthy of the
name of a Fienchman, who shall dare to offer the
Isalt insult to the communes who declare for peace.
TURIN, May 22.
Oenef'al Beaulieu, purfaed by the indefatigable
Buonaparte, has passed the Venetian territory, and
we believe he is already upon the entrance of Ty
rol. The French General has prepared to fend to
the Direflory, 60 paintings of Corregio, Michael
Angelo, and other firft matters. So formerly Me
tellus sent to Rome the pi&ures and vases of Co
rinth.
A fa 3 charafleriflic of the times.
We learn that the legislative body decreed for
the 10th of this month, a kind of Te Deui* for
the national viStories, jrnd that this fealt (hotild be
celebrated with the exhibition of a battle. But
they were forced to change their plan, because the
French soldiers would not even aft the refcmblance
of a retreat. We think this anecdote is so linking
as to deserve to be told.
HAGUE, May Is.
It appears that what has been said of the Prussi
an troops in Westphalia has been exaggerated.
They do not exceed 20,000.
"""" L"., " """■ HI J—.*—
Philadelphia,
* Monday evening, august 15.
[TRANSLATION.],
To the Editor of the Aurora.
Philadelphia, 26th Thermidcr, 4th
year of the French Republic.
Sm,
I request you to insert in one of your earliest
numbers, the following declaration relative to the
occurrences at the Hospital of the French Repub
lic in Philadelphia.
This declaration will set right a paragraph in the
Coufur Francois of Philadelphia of the > .miU
rtr which so.roe of ihefadls havebeen mifreprefenired-
The Mini/ler Plenipotentiary of ,the French
Republic.
P. A. ADET.
A paragraph inferred in the Courier Francais
pointed at Philadelphia the [ 3th of August 1796
(O. S.) places in a falfe light the conduct of the
Governor and of the Magillrates of Philadelphia,
in regard to the attack made on the hospital of
the French Republic by woikmen in the neigh
bourhood.
. Sever.il of the guilty ha-ebeen taken up, and will
no douht receive the punishment they deserve. His
excellency the Governor of Pent.fylvania and Mr.
Clarkfon Philadelphia, u.ider application
to them, immediately tciok the necessary measures
to prevent all diftmbance, and if the means of re
prefling'any iiforderthat might occur were no: of
tenfive, they were, on 'hat account, the more sure.
The writer of the paragraph alluded to has been
mifinformed, and is its appearance in Fiesch might
lend the publia to believe, that it was concerted
with the agents of the French Republic, 1 think
it inccn\tjent on me to declare, that far from having
experienced a denial ofjuftice from the magistrates
of the State of Pennsylvania, I reeeived from them,
upon this occasion,' unequivocal testimonies of the
most ready zeal ; and that I in consequence
returned them officially my thanks, particularly to
his Excellency the Governor, who gave himfelf
the trouble ofperfonally attending on the spot.
Philadelphia 26th Thermidor, 4th year of the
1 French Republic, one and indivisible.
The Minifier Plenipotentiary as the French Re
public near the United States of North A
merica.
P. A. ADET.
• ■» ■
Philadelphia, Augufl 1, 1796.
Gentlemen, •
THE Merchants of this city have'for some
time palt beheld with regret a regulation, enforced
by a proclamation of the Governor, obliging eve
ry vessel coming from any part in the Weft-Indies
to perform a quarantine of five days, although the
port from which (he failed may not have had any
infectious disease ; and that no petfon on board was
at the time of arrival, or at any time dining the
passage, labouring under any such disorder. The
intention of the law which veiled so an pie a dif
cretion in the Gavsrnor. was, no donjit, intended
to prevent the importation of infectious diseases ;
and the preservation of the health of the citizens
is of so much more importance than any pecuniary
loss or embarrafmeut of the merchants, that they
have'fubmiited to the regulation, howeverunneetf
fary in thfir opinion, father than make themselves
responsible for the consequences that might arifc
from any alteration. They always retained the
hope,' however, that the neceflry of such a regula
tion would either have been demonstrated, or that
one less injurious to their interests, and equally ef
ficacious to the end in view, would be adopted.— j
Tsut fin-ling the proMV'tim continued, tnd not
being able to fattsfy themfelvcs of its necefiity,
duty to themselves and to the community, irnpcll«
them to reprefeot—idly, That there are many of
the ports in the Weft-Indiei,. as heajthy and as
free from infedtioui diseases as the" city of Phila
(1-lphia. 2dly, That where vefTels have been heal
thy during the pafiage, and continued to be so on
their artival, there can be no danger from their
being admitted to pass in the com fe of twenty
four hours, in which time fati*fa&ory evidence
might be had that no impofiiie'n was intended?
jd!y, rll p.t the detention of parsons artifriig in
perfect health, confined to the narrow limits of a
vefTel, ar.d impatient to be with their families and
friends, is calculated to produce the very end that
is intended to be guarded against—sickness and
disease. 4'l>ly, That upon every moderate com
putatiiui, taking one vessel with another, there
(will be dii attual lots of at least one dol
lars; and if the whale number shall amount as com
puted to five hundred, the aggregate will be fifty
thousand dollars, 3 loss too great to be (übmitted
to, except it (liall be juftified by the necessity of the
cafe.
While they suggest these alterations to the board
of health, it is not their wish that they (hould be
adopted the fulleft consideration, and the
advice of fttch Phyfivians as would be competent
to advise on so important a fabjeft. If after such
consideration a«d advice, these or other regu
lations less injurious to them, and equally efficaci
ous in preventing the introdu&ion of jnftftioua
diseases, can be adopted, or even the existing ones
Hiall be determined to be necessary, they will reit
fatisfied.
We have .thought it .refpe&ftll, and mod likely
to obtain a candid re-con fid erat ion of the lubjeft,
to addreis ourfelres to you ; we do it in the fulleft
confidence that you will immediately take it into
consideration, and do therein what shall appear to
be proper.
(Signed)
James Yard, Conynglvani, Nefbitt & Co. L-tvi
nus ClarkfOn, Johti Barclay, Thomas Fi ijfim'otis,
Peter Blight, Stephen Girard, John Craig, Wil
liam Cramond, John Gardiner, jun. John Leairy,
Joseph Ball, Daniel Smith, William Bell, Standifh
Forde, James Crawford, Robert Ralltou.
(Copy.)
Health-Office, Augujl 4, 1796.
" Tiie Board entered into a conliJeration of the
address from the merchants, relative to an altera
tion in the regulations relpefting quarantine; and
after mature deliberation, came to the following
refolntion
" Resolved, as vhe opinion of the Board, that
they cannot confidently with the duty they owe
theii- fellow-citizens, recommend to the Governor
any alteration in the exifling quarantine."
Extract from the minutes.
THOMAS P. COPE, -Sec'ry.
Health-Office, Augujl 4, 1796.
Sir,
THE lnfpe£tors of the -Health Office of the,
port of Philadelphia, acknowledge the receipt ol
the - Mrefs from sundry refpedable merchants of
tlffirci'fyi Whilst tfiey regret the exptnee occa- ]
fionedhy the quarantine indifcriminatrly laid 01
all vcfiila from the Weft Indies, See. (as'exprefft J
in the Governor'? Proclamation)' they cannot con
fidently with the duties of their appointment, an'
the regard they owe the health of their fellow
citizens, recommend a partial exemption of vcflcls
implicated therein.
We transmit you a copy of the resolution of this
board on the fubjedt, to be laid before the fub
fcribeis to said address.
Signed by order of the Board.
LEVI HOLLINGSWORTH, Chairman.
R. Ralston, Esq. '
WILMINGTON, Augnft 11.
Weji Point, Augujl 7, 1796.
Messrs. Printers,
I reqtieft the favor of your inserting the copy of
a letter received at this garrison from Fort Ofwego,
for the better information of those who queflion
({ill whether the British will furrenderthe Potts,
With rtfpeft I am,
Gentlemen,
Your mod obedient Servant,
LEWIS COUSARD, ~)
Major of the 2d battalion of Artilleiifts i
and Engineers. J
Fert Ontario or Ofiutgo, July 16, 1796. *
'Twas not 'till'the 14th ihft. that we en
tered this fort. Capt. Thomas Clarke whacom
manded here, had left it some hours before we ar
rived. Lieut Elmer, on account of some bufmefs
had pafied the preceding day and night in the fort.
Immediately after we entered the fort, we an
nounced it to every body and thing within hear
ing, by the discharge of 15 cannon, and'by display
ing the American colours. We are all here at
Idngthi having waited fix days at Ofwego Falls for
Capt. Clarke to take away some ot his Majesty's
(lores, for which purpose a Kingston vessel had
been hourly expected. We find the gardens left i*
good order, containing large quantities of vegeta
bles. In short, Capt. Clarke's whole conduct has
been that of prudence, politeness and benevulence.
He hag diitributed among our officers two sheep, a
bear, a several cats, and snow-shoes. We
find a plenty*>f tables, some chairs and other valu
able articles- The fort is situated on a high and
commanding ground, near, an(i in full view of tfce
grand lake Ontario. L' eut * 'Rowan, ant! Doctor
Rhodes remain here. The fort is a regular penta
gon, with five bafliotis, and accommodations for
300 men, besides store-houses, (tables, &c. The
whole would make a most handsome appearance,
if the works were not old and in a date of decay.
CONCORD, (N. H.) August 2.
On Sunday before lai', the barn of Mr.-Jonathan
Courser, of Bofcawen, was burnt by lightning,
containing about 40't0ns of hay ; it is worthy imi
tation, and with pleasure we meatirtn, that the.phi
'lanthropic inhabitantshad, on Thursday lall,
| completed a nfw barn fur Mr, Conrfer, 32 hy 6o»
from timber' which was Handing the morning after
the fire—in addition, tluy have subscribed grass to
make up his deficiency of h«r-—this conduct is ad»
mirabte->-lhia ii GODLIKE !
GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST.
PHILADELPHIA, Autff i 5»
By the Times, London paper, of J>ine 4, we find that
the brig Peggy, Hycr, (mentioned in our paper of Fri
day to have been loft in the Britifli channel) is aJhore on
Portland Beach. The captain and fix of the crew were
unfortunately drowned.
Ihe Major Pinckney, an American {hip, arrived at
London th 6 4th June from bengal.
She left Bengal the Bth of April •
The Washington hat! failed forLifbon.
Brig Sally, capt MitehbH, menlioned in Priday'i
Gazette as beitig in the Delaware fro~,Havre- de-Grace
is gone into Wilmington.—She had 42 day's pafljge.
A Snow belonging :o Ballon from is below.
ARRIVED,
DAYS
Ship A&ive, Robertfon, St. 44
Snow Ann & Mary, Smith) Lifboq 63
Brig Abigail, Lake, leremie 15
Schr. Peggy, Lytie3, Jertmie it
Friendship, Gardner, N. 9
Schh Three Jofeplr's, Henry, Bermuda 12
Lnuifa»Shorer, North-C.irohna II
Maria, Martila, Virginia 13
Sifters, Jackson', do.
' Lucretia, Harper, Portland io
Sloop Harmony, Elwood, Alexandria 14
Sally, Potter, Richmond 5
Nancy, Bowles, Portfrnouth n
Sloop Nancy*, Howard, for St. Domingo returned
in diftref6'
Arrived at the Fort.
Brig Ifahella & Ann, Hawkins, Port-au Prince.
CLEARED.
Brig Betsey, Memminger, Hil'pinioll
Twins, Keeler, St. Croix
Betsey, Holt, Jamaica
Mary, Callender, St. Thomas
Brig Abigail, Phdan, London.
Anna, Mafiat, St. Barthtdemcws
Mary & Elizabetl), Cook, Port au-Pmce
Molly, Medlin, Port au-Prjnce
Schr. Dolphin, T ice, St. Thomas
Schr.. Mary, Hacket, New Orleans
Ifahella, Clifton, St. Bartholomews
Mountain Leader, Collins, Jairaica
Virginia & Phdadelphia Packet, Haltet, Norfolk
Sally, Harfland,' Wilmington. N C.
Schr. Betsey, Hollon, Shockly, Km ,! <m
Neptune, Pgife, Saviuuajv
Sloop Eltza, J ckfop, New-York
Arrivals at Bojion, Augujt 10.
Brig Minerva, BrawnjoliH, Aus-Cayej
Orlando, tarfuns, , Copcri!'tn
Minerva, Hinklcy, Liy. r; 1
Lion, Fyett, C: z
Schr. Atlantic, Cotde Marti: o-
Sally, Ja:i ion
LelJan, • B> r ■.»
Sally, Donalds, Barring n
The Minerva. Cutts, of Boston ; General WafhingV n,
Pierce, Philadelphia ; Poly & Harriet, Ahram.*. of B; »
ton; Faflor, Ken>p, ot New-York; Peggy &• Polly,j? e
venfon, of Boston ; Miosrva, Long, Philadelphia; N«r
cy, Cumming, ditto; Ipduftry, Steward, ditto; and
_i'aJ)ny, Wnftiu otNcw-i rk iCadi-5 ficco
jt • i - Z- t~
Arrivals at Nevj-1 ork.—Auguji T 3
tSrig Hannah Sc Mary, Riddle, Bristol 60
Julia . . Jai-.arca 33
Sloop-Endeavor, Hubjjle, St. Thumns's 1$
PLYMOUTH, (eng.) Jtlne 1.
CameTn tht American briji J> ntiha, of Btvcrly,
Ebenezor Gi es, Mailer, tri m S lea, on tie o.ft
of Bafbaiy, laden with wheat, boifnd to Lo< dor :
the has flnfjed het cargo', and is very leaky., nrrali.
oned by the heavy"seas in a late ga'e of wind, w
obliged Fy;r tv> bear up for this port: (he has beeil
thirty fix days on her voyage.
deal, June 2.
Arrived and failed for the River the Jenny,
from New.York. Sailed the Rjcoon
sloop on a crtiize. Remain therett as per la'fl, iviih
Dominica, Finley, for Jamaica ; Chermille/Duun,
and Cheftetfield, Nicol, for the South Seas. Wind
S. E.
I _i _ v . 4
■" - A
A middle-aged orhan
WHO has been used to the care of children, nd can
give reference for her, reputation, miy hear ©f a
place, as child's maid, by applying to the Printer
Jff- >5 . § _
Apprentice wanted
TO CARVING ai\d gilding
Alfcuth about 14, of refpedable parents and can y
well recommended. None other need apply
Enquire of the Printer. Am?* 1 It
TOR •
The Cargo of the ship Potomack Chief, confiding of '
450 Hhds. Tobacco,
chiefly from the upper warehOuses on South Potomac, an J
of 'a good quality.
This (hip is chartered to proceed to falmeuth and one
port in Europe without the Streights and Baltick a 6jf.
fttrling Freight and ; per cent, primajre, and will be clear
to fail by the 25th inft, fr«m Alexandria
For terms apply to EMANUEL WALKFR.
Aug. 11 tm&w
L ANDS7 ~
•In Harrifon county, Virginia, for Sale.
FOtJR Trads costainingsooo acres each, and a moiety
of one other traift of 5000 acres, all iituated on the
waters of Elk ahd Hughes's river.
For further particulars enquire at No. Jo ChefuUt-fl reet,
where the Patents may be i'een. -
Aug. .6 fw&nj^t
Spanf/h Treaty Ratified.
THIS DAY, Published by J. ORMKOD, fCp. 41,
C MESNUT-bTREiT, in a handsome pamhlet.
(Price ia and 1-2 Cents. )
A TREATT of FRIENDSHIP, LIMITS &
NAVIGATION,
BETWEEN the United States of America, and his
Catholic Majesty—with the President's Proclamation
announcing its ratification.
ORMROD has lately Pnhlifhed the British andAl
gerine Treatiei, which match in f'rze with the above.
Also, Burke's celebrated letter to the Duke x>f Bcd»
iord, !ind barton's answer to Prioftj^yi
ABguft 13. 4tsmw&f.
~ f ♦'t
Lands of the United States.
Treasury Department,
viugujl 8, 1796.
Public Notice is hereby given,
IN pursuance of an ail of Congress parted on the 18 th
day of May, 1796, entitled " an ail providing " fdr
the sale of the Lands of the United States, in the territory
north-wcfl of the river Ohio, and above " the mouth of
Kentucky river," that the Quarter Towrffhips of land
dolcribed in the annexed schedule, lying iu the seven rang
es of townships -which Were surveyed in pursuance of an
ordinance of Congress, pafied on (he twentieth day of
May, in the year one thousand seven hundred and eip-lity-'
five, will be exposed for sale at PUBLIC VENDCS, at
vhe Merchant?' Coffee-Houfe in Philadelphia, on the 4th
day of January next, and thenceforward from day today,
Uticil the tenth day of Ftbruary ensuing unless the faicJ
quarter townships (hall be foonar fold, in the manner and
on the terms and conditions hereinafter mentioned ; viz.
rit. The said quarter townships flfall be fold to Jie
tfiigheft bidder, but nolale can be made for left than two
dollars per acre of the quantity of land contained in such
quarter towulhip.
id. The highefl bidder as before mentioned, must de
posit a s the time of sale, one twentieth part of the pur
chase money, in the hands of the Treafurerof the United
which will be forfaited if a moiety of the Cum bid,
including the said twentieth part, fliall notb* paid within,
thirty days from the time of sale.
3d. Upon payment of a moiety of the pwchafe-ms
nay »i the iaanaer beforMncntioned, the purchaler will
be entitled to one year's credit for the remaining moiety ;
and tha.ll receive a certificate describing the quarter town
fbip purchased, and declaring the sum paid 011 account,
the balance remaining due, the time when such balance
becomes payable,- and that the whole Land therein men
tioned will be forfeited, if the said balance is not then
paid ; but if the said balance shall be duly discharged, by
paying the fame to the Treasurer of the United States,
the purchaser or his affigftee or other legal representative,
shall be entitled to a patent for the said land, on his pro
ducing to the Secretary of State a receipt for such balance,
endorsed upon the certificate. But if any purchaser shall
make payment of the whole of the purchase-money at the
time'when the payment of th« firfl moiety is directed to
be made, he will be entitled to a dedc&ion of ten per
centum on the part for which a credit is authorized to be
given ; and his patent shall be immediately ilfued,
GIVEN under my "hand ai. Philadelphia, the day
and year abovemention£a.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
Secretary qf the Treasury.
SCHEDULE
Of Quirter-Townfhips to be fold at Philadelphia, in pur
suance of the 6th fe&ion of an ail of Congress passed on
the 18th day of May, 1796.
o *0.
■ » £
a. .& Kg
&• ' S ' «g % I
es I ° « 2 -
r E— H U <J
r* k i- _S in
owu a °
ii <! S
JS ■ " 2 .?
5S X c —
a* s
H
-2 6 <South Eali 51 io
fJorth East 5 120
South Weft' 5120
North Weft J l2O
20,480
2 5 Sooth East 5120
No>-th East 5 1-20
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
7 South East 5120
North East J 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
.20,480
9 South East 3 120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
II South East J 120
North E»f" 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
1 4. Setfth East 5 120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
6 South East 5 126
North Edft 5 120
SouthWest 5120
North Weft 5120 ' "Ni
20,480
8 South East 5120
North East 51 20 i
South Weft 5120 /
North Weft! 5120 (
20,480
jo South Eaftj 5120
North East j 120
Sonth Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
! 20,480
12 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Welt 5120
Nortb Welt 5 120
I 20,480
- 3 South East 4602
North East 4654
South Weft 5120
Nocth Weft 5 120
19,496
c South East 5120
Nprth E*ll 5 1 20
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
1 South East 5120
North East 5120 ,
South Weft 5120
North Weft 51.3 A
— 20,480
9 South East 5120
North East! 5120
South Weft 5120
;North Wefti
I " !~ 2^480
♦ ————— ■ ——
•2 i
8. l'£
•«J i 'jT o c
W . <= « S
£ A «- r 0
« a = »
o PH H -C
js | V i 1»-
u - < I v
3 C C
2 3. -|~
<y 1 H
' eg o
j ii East 5 120
North. East 5 l 20
South Weft 5120
[North Weft 5120
. 20,480 1
13 South Ea 1 !: 5120
INoith Eslisi2o
South Welt 5 1 20
North Weft 5 i 20
20,480
6 4 South ErR 4630
, North East 4620
South Wfcft 5 t 20
Norih Weft y 120
; 19,490
6 Sout>h East 4730
North East 4715
{South Weft 5129
North Weft 51 20
1 19,685
8 South East 51 20,
North Eall 5 120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
1 -— 26,480
10 Soulh Erst 5 120
North East 5 120 »
Soulh Weft 5120
North Weft 51 20
80,480
12 South East 512 c
North East j 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
10,480
14 Sourh Eafi 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5 1 20
North Weft 5 120
20,480
7 3 South East 5 120
Noith East 5120
South Weft j 120
North Weft 5 2 C J*
20,480
5 South East J 120
North EaP J 120
South Weft 5 120
North Weit 5120
20,480
7 South East 5120
North East 5 120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5 120
20,480
9 South East 5 1 20
North East 5 120
South We!: 5J20
North Weft s 120
20*480
11 South East 5 120
Noith East 5120
South Weft 5 120
North Weft 5120
20,480
13 South East 5120
North East 5120
South Weft 5120
North Weft 5120
20,480
15 South East j 120
North East 512©'
South Weft 5120
Nor'.h Weft 5120 I
i i 20,480
NOTE.
THE quantities of Lands in the several town&ips be
fore mentioned,arc emcluSve of the Sefl ons referred by
the United States. The aggr< gate quantities in the seve
ral townlhips, have been afccrtau.ed by a&ual survey ; but
the quantities in the quarter townlhips, have been no
otherwise ascertained than by calculation.
PROPOSALS,
(By William Cobbett, opposite Christ Church, Phila
delphia, fcir publilhitig by fubfcriptioii,
The History of Jacobinism ;
—Its CRIMES, CRUELTIES and PERFIDIES,
KOOMPRISING an Inquiry into the manner of diflemi-
V.J nating, under the appearance of Philosophy and
Virtus, principles which are equally subversive Of Or
per, Virtue, Religion, Liberty and Happiness.
By WILLIAM PLAYFAJR,
Author of the Commercial and Political Atlas, &c.
With ail Appendix,
BY PETER PORCUPINE,
Shewing the dofeconncaion which has ever subsisted
between the Jacobins at Paris and the Democrats in the
United States of America.
CONDITIONS.
I. This new, entertaining and inftruSive wort, which
is at once a history of Jacobinism and a complete history
of the French revolution down to the end of 1795, will
consist of two volumes, cftavo, each containing about
300 pages. It lb all be well printed, on a new type and
fine paper.
11. The price of each volume, bound in boards, will be
One Dollar and a Quarter, paid for on delivery • and to
non subscribers, a Dollar and a Half.
111. As soon as a fufficient ntimber of copies fhaU be
subscribed for, the work will be put to the preft, and fin
i&ed as enpeditioufly as a ttrifl attention tp neatncfs and
accuracy will admit of.
*.* Subscriptions tak-n by the publilher, and Ae prin
cipal Booksellers of Philadelphia; Meffrs.Spotfwood and
Nancredc of Boston ; Mr. Rivington of New-York • Mr
Rice of Baltimore; Messrs. Pritchard and Davwifon of
R.chmond, Virginia; an<T Mr. Young of Charleston,
bouth Carolina. Aug. iz
Salt Petre.
A few tons of excellent
EAST-INDIA SA LT-PETRE,
roa SALE BT
Samuel Breck, jun.
Aug. 9- eo6 , Rofs's Wharf.
Philadelphia, Wc*-Chcikr, Strajburgh,
LancaHer, Tor/e and Frederick tpivn
5 I A G E S.
THE proprietors of the above Stagt-s, return their bed
thanks to their friends and the public in general, for
the encouragement received in this line of bufinefs.aud beg
leave to inform the public, that they arc-determined to run
their flakes through from Philadelphia to l,anc2!.cr ir.
one day,"commencing on Tuesday, the r4th July mftant,
in the following manner, —vis. A Stage will set out on
that da-rat 4 o'clock in the morning, from the houle ol
Georo-e' Weed, Market direct, Philadelphia, and' run by
the way of Weftcaefter and Struiburgh. arrive inLar.caf
ter the fame eycafng, on Friday morning run to Wfignt s
ferry and exchange paffcn?e> with the York and rredei
ick-town flage, return and arrivcin-Philadelphia cm Sat
urday, an 4 <>" Monday morm g-following, at 4 o'clock,
said flage willfet.-u frofn the in J George Weed's, Phila
delphia, and arrive at J.ancaller the fame evening, on
Tuesday morning at 4 o'clack will set out from the Ir >u.e
of Mrs. Edwards, Lancaster, and arrive in Philadelphia
the fame evening, aid will commence again on Thursday
morning following, and continue every week Ihe price
for each paiTengt-r from to Lancaster is three
dollars and a half, to York, four dollars and three quar
ters. to Frederick town eight dollars, the like funis for
150 weight baggage, with the iifual allowance of 14 lb
gratis to each palTeiiger, and 5 pence a jr.ile for all way
passengers. 3° §4 W ,
John Reilly,
George Weed.
TAKE NOTICE,
THAT application will be the renewal of
the following certificates, illueu by Joseph Nourfe,
Reghler of the Treasury, ill the namfc of Roger Grif
wold, Esq. of Norwich, Connediicut —
1 certificate, fix per cent domestic flock, No. 13,907 1
—dated the 17th December, 1795, bearing intcreft from
the firft day of January, 1791, for 1,597 65-100 dol-
I ditto, three per ccnt. domestic stock, No. i0,68z
—dated December if>, 1795, bearing interest froarithe 1
firft day of January, 1791, for 994 30-100 dollars. 1
j dhto, deferred stock, No. 9,166 —dated the 17th ;
.December, 1795, bearing interejl from the firft-Janu- 1
ary, 1801, for 798 83-100 dollars.
Said certificates are fuppol'ed to have been loft or
flo en in this city some time in December or January 1
lafl.
JOSfcPH THOMAS,
No. 59, North Front-street.
Philadelphia, July a.i, 1-796. d6w.
Wafhmgton Canal Lottery,
no. I.
WHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorised
the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix thousand,
two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of cutting
a Canal through the City of Walhington, from th Po j
tomac to theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. I.
Vl2 -1 Prize of 20,000 doilaVs, 20,000
t ditto 1 0,,000 10,000
7 last drawn") _ , _
Tickets, each j J '°°° 35,°°0
6 ditto I,coo 6,000
10 ditto 400 4,000
20 d'tto 100 1,000
JJ ditto 50 2,750
5750 ditto ■ ll 69,008
Tobe raised for the Canaj, 26,250
5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
17500 Tickets, at Ten DotlifT, ~ 175,000
' The Comniiffioners have taken the Securities rs
quired by the aforcfaid ad for the punctual payment of
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commence, without
delay, as soon' as the Tickets are fold, of which timely
notice will be given.
Such prizes as are not demanded in fix months after the
drawing is finifhed, shall be considered as relinquished for
the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly,
(Signed j NOTLEY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of D
LEWIS DEBLOIS,
GEORGE WALKER,
Wm M. DUNC ANSON,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY.
City of Walhington, Feb. 11. §
DUTY ON CARRIAGES.
Notice is hereby Given,
THAT agreeably to an aft of Congress of the United
States of America, passed at Philadelphia, the 28th day j
of Mav, 1796 ; laying duties on Carriages, for the convey
ance of perlons, and repealing the former a&s for'that pur
pose,—-That thece shall be levied* colle&ed and paid, upon
all carriages for the conveyance "of persons, which (hali be
keptbv or for any person, for his or her own use, or to let
out to hire, or for the conveying of pafTcngers, the feyeral du
ties and rates following, to wit.
For and upon every Coach, 15 dols.
Chariot, 12 dols.
upon every Post Chariot, 12 dels*
upon every Post Chaifc, 12 dols.
.upon every Phaeton, with or withoui top, gdols
upon every Coachce, 9 dols.
upon other Carriages, having panne 1 work, above,
with b'inos, glares or curtains, 9 dols.
upon four wheel car»iages, having framed polls and
topi with steel springs, 6 Hols.
upon four wheel top Carriages, with wooden or iron
springs or jasks, 3 dols.
upen curricles witn tops, 3 dols.
upon chaises with tops, 3 dols,
upon chairs with tops. 3 dols.
upoii iulkies with tops, 3 dols.
upon other two wheel top carriages, 3 dols.
upon two wheel carriages, with Heel or iron springs,
3 dols
For and upon all other two wheel carriages, 2 £ols.
upon every lour wheel carriage, having framed posts
and tops, and rcftiug upon wooden spars, 2 dols.
The ColU&ors of the Revenue of the firft iurvey of the
Diftri&of Pennfy vania, will attend daily, until the 30th day
of September next, for the purpose of receding the duties on
Carriages, at No. 117, in Race or SafTafras street, in the City
of Philadelphia, at the house of DanielS. Clair, Kfq in the
County of Montgomery ; and at the house of Xbraliam Du
bois, Esq. in the County of Bucks; of which al! peVfonVpof •
. feffed of such Carriages are defued to lake notice.
Notice is alfq given,
TO all retail dealers in Wines, and foreign distilled spiri
tuous liquors, that licences will be granted to them ; orte li
► cence for carrying on the bufincfs of retailing of Wines, in a
-jets quantity, or 111 l«fs quantities than 30 gallons—and one
licence for carrying on the business of retailiog Spirituous 117
quors in lefsqualities than ao gallons, at the fame lime and
at the fame places, by the officers legally authorized to graut
fuck licences.
WILLIAM NICHOLS,
Infpeftor of the Revenue of the firft survey
of the dillri£t of Pcnofylvan ia
Orficeof Infpe£lion,at > » m
Philadelphia, 21ft J u l y| X7g6# J
Uit} cf Washington.
SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. II
FOR THE r.IfROy'IMFKT OF the '
FEDERAL CI FY.
A magnificent ) 10,000 dolli;;,,
dwelling,ho #, > caih 30,000, ire ) 00
I dltl 15,00 c & CJ.lt i)|OOf)
I ditto 1.5,00.) & cash 1.5,000 30,050
I ditto ic,ooo & cash 10,000 10,000
1 ditto 5,000 & cjih 5,000 10,000
I ditto 5,000 & call; 5,000 10,000
I cafli prize of 10,000
1 do. 5,000 e»ch, are, • 10,000
10 do. 1,000 - . 10,000
20 do. 500 - . 1 c,ooo
00 do. 100 - . 10, )oo
aoo d». 50 10,00 a
400 do. a 5 - 10,000
1,000 do. to - . 20,000 '
15,000 do. 10 » - 150,000 1
16,739 Prizes.
33,161 Blanks.
jo, 000 Tickets, it Eigjn Dol!ar», 400,000
•f N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of
Tickets, the prjzc of 40,000 dollars will be the last draw*
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but one :
And approved notes, securing payment in either mom»
or prizes, in ten days alter drawing, will be received fofc
any numoernot less than 30 tickets. v ■; *
This l.ottery will afford an elegantfpecimen of the pri
vate buildings to be created in the City of Wafturjrtou
Two beautiful designs are already felr.dted for the ebtire
fronts on two of the public fq.uares; from tjiefe prawingt
j it ispropofed to erect two centre and four corner buiii'lngi,
j as soon as possible after this lottery is fold, and'tu convey
them, when complete, to the fortunate adventurers, in
! the manner described in the fchemc for the Hotel Lottery.
A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray
the neccffary expenses of printing, &c. and the furplo*
will be made a part of the fund intended for the National
! University, to bij eredled within the city of Washington.
1 The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are
• fold off.- -The money prizes will be payable in thirty dayt
' after it is finilhad ; and any prizes for which fortunate
j numbers aie not produced within twelve months after thf
drawing iselofed, are to be an .en toward* «
1 the fund for the University ; it being determined to fettle
j the whole business in a year from the elding of the draw
ing, and to take up the bonds given a 9 security.
The real securities given for die payment of the Prizes,
are held by the Prefidcnt and two Diredlors of the Bank
of Columbia, add are valued at more than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commiflioners a flitted in the management of tht
Hotel Lottery are requeftedto undertake this arduous taflt
a fjcond time on behalf of the public ; a fufficient nuny
ber of these having kindly accepted, it is hoped that the
friends to a National University and the other federal ob.
jedts may continue to favor the design.
By accounts received from the different parts of the
Continent as well as from Europe, where the ticket*
have been sent for sale, the public are assured that the
drawing will speedily coramenae, and that the care and
caution unavoidably neceitary to insure a fafe dilpofal of
tht tickets, has rendered the ftior- fufpetifion indilpenfable.
SAMUEL BLODGET. '
Tickets may be had at the Bank of CoMihiliia ; of
James Weft & Co. Baltimore; of Peixr Oilman, Boston;
of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wslls,
Cooper's Ferry. eo
"fifty dollars reward.
RAN away. f»oin the living near Churclt
Hill, ' nn? County in the StLUc' vfMaryland*
" abouT the lu'tt ol Jiiiui'-y l'aft, u Vladc negro man,named
Sam, about thirty years of age, 5 fset B'or 9 itches high,
. has a crooked finger 011 one hand, and one leg and foot
fmallerthan the other, foraewhat round-shouldered, fcis
cloathing unknown. Any person who will fccure «r
bring fatd fellow home, so that 1 may get him again shall
have the above reward with reasonable charges.
WILLIAM JACOBS.
June 4. _ *iawim.
Diftrid: of Pennsylvania : to wit :
BE it remembered, that on the jth day of August, ift
the twentieth year of the independence of the Unit-
ed States of America, William Cobbett, of the said
diftridt, hath depofitcd in thi9 office the title of * book*
the ric:ht whereof he claims as proprietor, in the word®
following; to wit.
" The life and adventures of Peter Porcupine ; with a
" full and fair account of ali his authoring tranfa&ions %
w being a sure and infallible guide for all enterprifin£
" young men who wiih to make a fortune by writing
" pamphlets, by Peter Porcupine himfelf.
« Now, you lying varlets, you (hall fee how a plai»
u tale will put you down." . Shakes pear*.
in conformity to thea& of the Congress of the United
States, entitled " an afl for the encouragement of learn
ing, by securing.the copies of maps, charts and books to
the authors and proprietors, chiring the times thereia
mentioned. Samuel. C a ldyv;ii,l. v ;
* ' . 'j'S Clerk of the' 1 5
Q fM4W
AUg. 8 _ 1 -
Now Publishing by the Printer,
At No. 3, Court,' delivering to Subfcnber^
and to be hstd at the different Book-Stores in thisCCitsy f
Berriman & Co's
CHEAP AND ELEGANT EDITION OF
The HOLY BIBLE.
Containing the Old a»d Naw
I Teftameats and the Apocrypha, with fti.rg.nal
erenees. An Index ;or an account of the 'emaduMe
1 paflages in the old and new TelUment, pomting to the pl^e.
Wherein they happened, and to .he places of fenpturc
in they are recorded. —A Table of el try.
ture mealures, weight, and coins : w.th a„ append,x,com«n
-ing the m.thod of calculating its MFASuaES 'Act |
hitherto wanting in Trutifes tn this fubjl&- "j
and Conditions ol men.
f CONDITIONS » ■/>
The size of this Edition will be a LARGE FQ'LIO,
orinted on a beautiful new type, and good paper, ■>"« P ar
' frM,rlv forit It will be pXlilhed in Numbers, not to ex
• '11 one of ihTch will be delivered W.eMy to, fuhfenb.
e ceeQ 3 ' . j (l !i ar Thole fubfenbers who prefer
' will be attended by
' the fame on any of the iubfcript.on papers in .he Bookßorc
' 8?"rh-re willbe an advance in the price, on fubfenbin*
: T will be
Frontifpiec.-From an Engraving of the celebrated fruit.
G & Co. gratefully acknowledge the
" encouragement, hey have met with; and have reason to **«*
. that the exeention of ' hetr edition will answer every expec
t tation, and fpeah it' »<"* ptWj'- „ OWttA -
May 26
PRINTED by JOHN FENNO,
i —No. 119 —
"chfsnut-strest.
[Pricc Ki;;ht Dollar* pat Annum.)