(gajEtte ,f,be Unttet! #>tattS, & Philadelphia Daily Adver^
y FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 18, 179 6 - . ! _ OLVMS
Number 1309-] : : \ J ujt Landing,
———— -*-! r> i 1 TV.UI!„ A nAmn 1 1; w IS. O | A n J V«.i< Qola. 3 mianutv of
For Sale,
At Public A.Aion, on Saturday November
at the Merchants Coffee House, 6 o doc - l: -
ing—
Ibe brig FLY,
Virginia built, of the bed materials' r«,
sheathed on the flocks to light wa- lat
t"«r"™is not t W o years old, burthen eighteen hundred fc,
" barrels, or then> .Koom it well fotind-m OVXy refpe<3, and hr
fails remarkable fad—is ready to recs.ve a cargo •»»*<£ ] <
ately. Inventory to be seen at Footman &Co Audion to
room, on board at South Street wharf, or .at No, s,Sou.h
Fourth Street, by applying to the fubf«iber,^
George Blight. -
Terms of payment—approved indorlcd notes at 4, 4.
and 6 months. <iw*.
Nov. 14- ft
For Freight or Charter *
To Europe or the W.lndies, |_ n
The new Brig FAIR AMERICAN,
Callev, Matter ; burthen 145 ton ?; has \\
good accommodations, and is now ready to receive a
cargo —apply to the Captain on board, firft wharf -
above the Still-House, Seuthwark, or to
Isaac Harvey, jun. *
Who has now for sale, at his store, No. 5. South J
Water-ftrect, g
A quantity of Cayenne and Trinidad Cotton
Spanish Soal Leather
And a parcel of Carolina Rice, m whole and halt
tierces. nth mo. nth. " 2W
For Madeira,
The ship Concord,
pillage apply on board, or to t
Peter Blight;
Who has for sale, a quantity of
Brandy, in pipes
Whiting and Copperas, in hogsheads
Old Hock, in cases ' j
Dutch Cream-Cheese, in boxes \
Window Glass
Empty Gin-Cases *
Glass Ware, in boxes 11
Painters' Colours, ground in ri!
Sweet Oil, in cases of a dozen battles each
Hailenuts, in faclts.
Kovember n. d ' m
Wanted to Charter,
> f a ft-f alltn g, VeJf e U
£ A&Th*t will carry 5 or 600 barrels ; t°
S» •» load immediately for the Weft-Indies-
Apply to
Peter Blight.
November 10.
* —— 1 j
For sale, freight or charter, .
Btiphem Smith, Matter. ''
AN entire hew •effel, ninety-three tons burthen, torn- "
pletcly found, a*d may be sent to sea without any
exp-nlc. For terms, apply on board, at QliiTord's whart,
or to JOSEPH ANTHONY & CO.
9 » ' ■■■: ■
For Sale.
The Ship CHARLOTTE,
A stout vcflel, about 150 tons bur
then, well found and may be sent to
Apply to
fofeph Anthony and Co.
Nov. 8. . .ds.
FOR SALE,
1 HE SHIP MART, d
SAMUEL PARKER, Master,
to&jJlAifiTffo hundred tons burthen. Apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
If the MARY is not fold in a few days, fhewiS take
freight for Hamburg. Apply as above.
o<£K)ber3i. d
JuftarrivecL and will this day "be lan
ded frora on board the brig FAVORITE at Chefnut
flrcet wharf.
25 Tons bejl Russia Clep.ll HEMP,
56 Tonsold Sable flat IKON",
200 Coils best Russia CORDAGE, alTorted Czes, 1
400 Pieces hrown RufTi-i SHEETINGS,
100 Bolts Ruflia DUCK,
240 Pieccs Ravens do
-20 Half-down feather beds, and
A few pieccs aflforted*DlP>. PER.
FOR SALE BT
Joseph Anthony and Co.
f* The a bovc mentioned BRIG
f i I i« a few days, and take freight on
l^J^^ modcr « tc terms for Boston or Salem, for
or pafiage, apply on board or as above
O&ober 11, d
• Jf'""I*'1 *' For London, 1
The Jhip William Penn,
Jofrah, master. Will fail with a"
«*;>cx_i£SSEfe<Ki Coßvtn j ent fp ee ,l. F or freight or pafl"ag e
apply to the Captain on board, or to
Jeffe and Robert Wain.
November to, 1796. J '
For Liverpool,
' >—• The Ship DO MI NICK TEIiRT,
Jkjp&fcjr" Jacob Dehart, Master.
Has a part of her cargo engaged.—
0) ylje ;'Vt For freight or passage apply to the mas
ter on board, at the whar. of the sub
scribers, or,
°Je(fe y Robert Wain.
Nov. y. d
For Lisbon,
»«sTheDanilh barque Beneventura, .
Samuel Stub, Master,
A good veflel of about two hundred
tons burthen. For freight or palTage
apply to
JcJfe Robert Wain.
Nov. ji d.
For Sale by Public Auction,
On Saturday Evening next, the 19th A
j„fl. at 7 o'cleck, if not previoufty A
difppfed of at private sale, Ar
The Brigantine Fame,
Laying at Mr. Samuel Bower's wharf, and now
ready forfea; a strong and well built veflel, and calcu- —
lated either for the European or Weft-India trade, as
flie will carry nearly 2000 barrels —She has been just
hove down, and may be sent to sea at p small expence. 1
For further particulars, apply to Capt. Knox on board, (
to Samuel Smith, Ship Broker, 0,
JOHN CONNELLY, AuiUonfer.
November 17. 3 s
~ " ""
J— -S_ For Sale, a good strong built ship, bur
then 1 jsobarrels, nearly new, well fcflmd
can be put to sea at a small expence.
Payment will be received in Englilh or ;
India goods, or if more agreeable to 3,
6, and 9 months credit would be given on approved
notes, for further particulars enquire at No. 8, South j
Water-ftrect, or No. 19 North Tliird-ftreet.
November 16. 7 t
FOR LONDON, L;
The capital (hip CERES,
fail soon :—For freight or passage
apply to DAVY, ROBERTS & Co. or -
John Vaughan, ®
September 10. Front-street .
For Charter,
The Ship JO HN DULKELT,
Avrls Stockley, Master, *
An excellent live-oak and cedar built
..fubotrt 3oco barrels burthen.—Ap
"JeJfe & Robert Wain.
Nov. d.
fin For Sligo and Killibegs,
WOW 4 American Ship NJnct,
Cuthhfrt Riggs, master.
Wilt fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paliage apply to
William Bell;
Who ha 3 for sale, _
4 Trunks Printed Cottons, well aflbrted 'J
3 Bales Irifii Flannels, and s boxe» Linens
S5 Pipes Brandy (
Madeira Wine; Indigo. Russia Matt«,
Also,
A few barrels Prime IRISH BEEF, PORK,
OATMEAL, &c.
November tt, 1796, mwftf
For Sale, or Charter,
J||n The Ship DIANA,
Samuil Pile, Master,
Burthen 205 47-95 tons register, built in f r ,
gjggSggPhiladelphia in the year 1792, of live oak
and red cedar, and was lheathed 13 months 3go, (he ~"
has just had a corfipleat offt'frr, ami m;y be !Vnt to sea
at a very trifling expence.
For terms apply to r
Philip Nicklin U Co.
IVho have for sale on board said vtjfel, .
27 calks of fine yellow paint.
9 boxes and 12 bundles of writing Hates.
1 box ink stands and note presses.
14 bales of fail canvass.
\ And on hand,
Imperial ~)
Kyfon, and, > TEAS.
Souchong )
40,000 pieces Nankeens of the firil quality.
19 tubs Qu^ickfilver.
2 chests Bandanno handkerchiefs.
A few chests Manchester goods well assorted in Cor
duroys, thicksets, Ginghams, Muflinets, Dimities, &c.
3 boxes black sewing silk.
180 crates Queens ware well aflorted.
0 10 tons fhect lead.
Nails afTorted, flat and fllarp points.
e London Part icular, ~ , .
London Market, i Made.ra \\ frre in p.pes ,
New-York Market, ) and hog<h;ads.
40 pipes and 10 hogflieads Teneriffe wine.
8 tierces Snake Root.
it 230 logs Mahogany. 0
Nov- 7. tth&ftf. n
This Day will be Landed, , s
From on board the brig Dispatch, Captain P. Brum, -
from Malaga, at Morris' 3 wharf, just above the /
Drawbridge,
FRESH FRUITS, viz.
Riifins, in kegs, boxes and baskets ,
Figs in kegs
Prunes in boxes t
Grapes in jars T
Olives in ditto
n Lemons in chests
,r Anchovies in kegs „
c Almonds, foft fhelied, in sicks ,
Also, '
Brandy in butts
Sweet Mountain Wine in quarter-cifks—iefc. ,
For Sale by
11 Peter Kuhn. ■
e November 17.
Sales of India Goods.
The Cargo «f the ship Ganges, capt. Tingsy, from Cal
cutta and Bengal,
CONSISTING OF
A Large and general aflortment of Bengal and Madras
CO ITON and SILK GOODS.
AMONG WHICH AXE
: A variety fine worked and plain Mnjliris,
Doreas, ts*c. Also,
A Quantity of Excellent Sugar, r
In boxes and bags—and BLACK PEPPER,
For Sale by 0
Willings & Francis, fl
No. 41 Penn Street. I
June 8
WANTED, t
As Cook, in a private family,
A YOUNG WOMAN who can produce good rc- c
commendatians ef an unexceptionable character. En- a
quire of the Printer. ]
November 17. t f
' l'
FOR SALE,
A few hogflieads of choice RUM,
A number of barrels of BEEF, and PORK,
Anil a few kegs of LARD, of a fuperwr quality. £
Enquire at NO. 71, north Water-street. ter
November 8, 179® *.
For Sale.
7 cafe coarse hits a
Copper to;to.i'S ind fteets ■**
Shot, iftfizes, patent .".iidcommon
Sheet and barr trad
Euglifh flioes and boots in cases
Tin plates
Gold watches
Taunton ale in caflcs.
Apply to
Simon Walker,
124, So. Fourth Street. —
Nov. 8. <tl4t V
OLD
London Particular Madeira Vv ine, an
In pipes, hogflieads and quarter-caflts, so
Landing this day at Chefnut-ftreet Wharf, and
for sale by
Joseph Anthony & Co. _
Nov. I.
Best Boston & Nova Scotia Mackarel, A
Excellent Halifax Salmon in bb"!s.
47 hbls. prime Coffee,
Best Boston Beef,
Codfifh iq hds..
Spcrmaceti Candles,
: Spermaceti, and 7 o( T
Northern j '
Mpf'Jl awl dipt, tallow candles, of -a Aipen'or
quality.
A few boxes excellent brown soap,
6 Bales of Corks.
4c Pipes excellent Lilbon Wine.
A few sacks of Feathers. '
A few bales India Mufiins.
FOR SALE BT
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & Co.
Oflober 31. d
The Cargo, of the Polacre Independent,
CAPTAIN CATHCART, from Alir.ant and Lis
bon, landing at the fubfciibers wharf— -
aS Pipes of Brandy
j8 Bales of Spanish woot
3 do. of Annifeed
7003 Bushels of best; Lilbon Salt
80 Boxes flf Lemons
For I'aJe by WILLINGS & FRANCIS.
ALSO. -
Seventy Hopfheads of prime JAMAICA SUGARS, ~
-eceivtfd by the ship Dominick Terry, Capt. De Hart,
1 frotfi Kinglton.
; 13- a £
Xrilh Linens, &c. \
Imported per the Jhips Glafgo'j.', from Dublin, Liber
ty, from Cork, and brig Me:,-:or, from Belfafl,
4-4 and 7-8 Wide IRISH LINENS,
In whole and half boxes,
AfTorted from nd. to 4s. Derling—Alfo 5- kwide
Sheetings, and low priced yurn and worried Hose.
On Baud,
7-g Wide Lav.-ns.
Dupers and Table-Cloths f
A few boxesTickens and Cheeks
A few bales Flannels ;
Cork and Belfaft Sail Clcth, Nos. I end 6 ]
IS Boxas •) r 6 by, 8, ]
10 Ditto > Window Glass, < 7 by g, ;
5 Ditto J C 8 by to. )
The above mentioned Goods are all entitled to the ;
drawback, and will be disposed of by the package en 3
reasonable terms. ]
James, Clibborn & English, <
No. 6, Front-street. J
loth mo. 19th. dtf
A Manufadtory FOR SALE. j
A Valuable SOy\P and CANDLE Manufa&ory, situate
in a convenient part of the city } the works almost new, ,
on an entirely original conftruflion, and built of the best
materials, and may be set to work immediately. Persons
who with to purcbafe, are requested to apply at No. 273,
South Second Street. September 13. t t f tf
J, : ,
e Imported in the late arrii'ih from Europe and the
Ifejl- Indies,
Holland Gin, in pipes
Choice St. Croix Sugar and Kum
Martinique MolafTss, in hoglheads ;
Clioice old Lisbon Wine, in pipes and quarter-casks 1
London Particular & London Market Madeira Wine, 1
in pipes, half-pipes and
Malmsey Madeira Wins, in pipes and quarter-calks
TenerilTe Wine, in pipes
Russia & Flemish Sheeting and Ravens Duc-k, in cases
Window Glass, 8 by it), in bo.Ves
Coffee Mills and Straw Knives, in casks
Mill Saws and Crois-eut Saws, in boxes
Also, nr. hand,
A few <;hcfts of BoheaTea; Jesuits Bark ; AlTafcs
tida arid Tapioca ; and a few bales of Col Tats,
Baftas, Gurrahs, Bandanna and Muslin Handker
chiefs, and a tfomplete assortment of <-4 and 6-j
1- Boulting Cloths.
Fof Sale by '
is , Pragers Is? Co.
C^° t ° et ' 10 dawm&thani
, The Elephant
IS RETURNED FROM BALTIMORE.
THE public are refpeftfuljy informed, that
this animal is to be leen every day, from 3
o'clock in the morning ti i fun down, in Market- ;
street, No. ie6, south fide, between Third and
Fourth-ftieets.
. Admttiance a quarter of a dollar, that every ci
tizen may fee hiir.
request of many persons it will be
. exhibited on evenings from five to eight o'cjock,
1- at hal f a d°ilar each—The room will be well
lighted.
Novfmlir 7.
Just Landing,
Xnd Vor Sale, a quantity of
BOURDEAUX BRANDY,
YT'ROM on board the fcheoner Lydia & Pohy, Oliver
f Jar,kins mailer, lying at Wikock's wharf. Fof
terms, enquire on boarcl said schooner.
November icth. ~ , yiw
For Sale by John J. Parry,
No. 3s, S. Second nnr Cheftut-Jlreet,
A few excellent GOLD WATCHES*
From Fortv to One Hundred Dollars,
And SILVER WATCHES,
Of various priccs—all -Warranted.
An iflorttnent of Chains, Seals, Keys, and Trinkets,
Eight Day Clocks supplied, and Clocks & WatcttM
repaired with liifpatch and great care.
Best Watch GlafTes by the grace.
November tuf&s^w
FOR SALE,
About 1,600 acres of Land,
WELT, situated, laying on and between Marsh
and Beech Creeks, Mifflin county, Pennsylvania, in
four feparatc Patents. For terms of sale apply to
Wpi. Blackburn,
•No. 64, South S<*eond-(ireet.
October 3 ». mwftf
Just Landing,
j4t Southfirtttmharf, from on board the [hip Sedg
ky, Caitmn Hedge, from St. Peterjburg,
Tke following Goods:
RelTia Sail Duck, firft quality.
Do. Sheeting do.
Do. Diaper.
Do. Huckaback.
Do. Cra!h,
Do. Mould Cantlles, 4, J and 6, to the lb. of the
Englifti size. ,
Do. White Candle Tallow.
Do- White Soap in small b«tcs.
Do. Cordage of fin? yarn.
Ravens Duck.
lfinglaft, ift and |snd fort.
Horse Hair uncurlcd.
Ruflia Bar Iron.
Do. Hoop Iron.
Do. Nail Rods.
10 Tons Oakum and Junk.
St. Peterlburg Cloan Hemp:
For Sale by
> Philips, Cramond, & Co.
Oiftobcr 11. 5
Fashionable Waistcoating.
GEORGE DOBSON, No. 25,
SOUTH THIRD-STREET,
Has received per the Diana, from London,
Clouded and striped Spanish Swanfdown
' Clouded Frminats and Moleflci'ns
' .Striped do. and do.
Figured Manillas
_ Scarlet figured F.rminets
Printed Florinetts
Do. C.iCinets anH Caffimeres
Superfioe prints" Quillings, nftt-eft pallerlfs
Alfa, -per different arrivals,
A large and general aflfortment of Dry
' Goods,
Suitable to the present and approaching season.
November?. dtf
LANDING,
Out of different vejfels from England, and for fait
by the fuhjeribers on reasonable terms,
Superfine and common cloths, and cafiimers
Ribbed and llriped do. do.
Blankets , mottled green and silk rugs.
Superfine blue, Claret, and common coatings,
Kerseys, Bear-fcins, plains and Halfthicks,
' e Swanikins, Serges and Flannels,
11 Britilh Ingrain Carpeting,
Hatsafforttd in cases of u doe. each.
Chocolate chintzes, printed Callicoesand Handkerchiefs.
t Scarlet Cardinals, and Scarlet Snail,
Tarn, Worftcd, and Cotton hosiery,
_ Beavars, Tbickfetts, Velvets, Corduroys, &c. &c.
Buff and drab Genoa Cords of a superior quality,
fed. Bd. tod. lid. 20d. nails, and frying pans,
te An affoitmcnt of Ironmongerry, Outlery and a variety
"• of India cotton, and silk gsods.
Thomas £s° JoJhua Fijher.
3, No. 5, Dock-fttrect.
Also by the Glasgow from Dublin,
1-8 and 4-4 • Irish Linens assorted in boxes of 30 piece«,
do. Brown, Glazed Linnen.
! -' e _OA. 17. dtf.
For Sale,
AThree-ftory BRICK HOUSE and Lbt, in Chefnut
street, between Front and Second ftraets, in which
, s Messrs. James Calbraith Sc Co. have for many years (and
now do) carried on business.
Possession will be given in one month, or fboner.
For terms apply to WILLIAM BEX.L, or
HECTOR CALBRAITH.
April si. 5
For Sale,
By Jehu Hollingfworih, Co.
45 hhds. Weft-India Rum, 3d and 4th proof,
I. 5 Barrels best Indigo, and,
A few thousand buihels of Turk's Island fait
oa - n-. . . . . d.
4 For Sale,
By J. WARDER, PARKER is Co.
An Invoice of Cordage,
Confiding of different sizes, from u inch cables down
_ to rope of z inches, of different lengths: Imported in
the (hip Swift, from Hull, and entitled to drawback
■ Se P t - a 7' ... dtf"
!t Benjamin and Jacob Johnson,
8 . No. "47, Market-street,
Hive received by the last arrivals from Liverpool afid
, Hull,
A very generalajfortment of DRTGOODSr
. Well fuitcd to the approaching leaToh, which they will
1- fell on the leweft terms by the piece or packare
° aßber '*• ta'w4w
£ City Dancing Assembly.
■11 Thff Assembly will be held oa Thurlday next the
17th November, at Oellers's Hotel.
By order of the Managers.
1 Not. 14.t
Pantheon,
_ ANp'RJGKETtS'j AMPHITHEATRE,
"Tor Equestrian and Stage Pirformahcks,
__ Corner of Chefnut and Sixth-ftreeti
TO-MORROW EVENING, November 19,
Will be piefentcd,
A variety of Entertainments.
ACT I.
Horsemanship,
By Mr, Ricketts, Mr. F. Ricketts, Mr. Franklin,
Mailer Franklin, Matter Hmchins, the Young
American, and Mrs. Spinacuta.
Clown to the Horsemanship, Mr. Sully.
ACT H.
Ground and Lofty Tumbling,
% Mr. Sully, Mr. F. Ricketts, Mailer-Franklin and
and Master Hutchins;
In which will be introduced
The Force of Hercules,
By Mr. Franklin, a performance never before at
tempted byfany in America.
ACT HI.
Equestrian Exercises,
In which Mr. Ricketts will introduce
A defcrij>tion of the Sailor's Fox Hunting.
ACT IV.
The whole to conclude with a Comic Pantomime,
under the direction of Mr. Durang, called
The MILLINERS;
Or, the Wooden Head.
Abbot, flflr. Durang.
Officer, Mr Sully.
Countryman, Mr. Tmnpkins.
Wiginaker, Spinacuta.
Dancing Mafler, Mr. Daring.
Singing Master, Mr. Franklin.
Valet, Mr. F. Ricketts.
Mr. Tiffany, Mr.Coffie.
Miss Sarfnet, Mrs. Tompkins.
Miss Pink (with a song) Miss Robinfou.
Fille de Chambre, Mrs. Durang.
Mr. RICKETTS takes this opportunity of inform- I
ing the Ladies and Gentlemen who attend the R'ding-
School, that he has, at conlitferahle expense, engaged
Mr. Frankiin, to 'jive leffops in the irt of riding and
managißg Horses, al he finds it impossible to attend to ,
it himfelr, in consequence of a variety of business
which he is atprefent engaged in. I
*** The Ladies and Gentleman who fccure feats i
the day time, are requested ta atfend punftua'lly at 7,
as the performances are so arranged as to concluded
lo o'clock—the doors will open at 6.
£5* Box, 7s. 6d—Pit, 3s. 9^.
Tickets to be hid of Mr. Ford, at theticket office in J
Chefn, t-ftreet, from ten to three o'clock each day.
0" Silver Tickets, to admit for the foafon, to be had •
by applying to Mr. P icketts at the Pantheon, or at Oel
lcrs's Hotel.
0" Days o c Performance to be Monday, Wednef
'day, Thursday and Saturday.
a
By WILLIAM COBBETT, oppofiteChrifl Church, Phi- ''
ladelphia, for publifbing hy fubfeription, a
* ' ADAMS'S I
Defence of the American Cmflitutiom. °
CONDITIONS: ol
J* The work (hall be printed on Englilh wove-paper, page
for page, from the bed London Edition; of course it 01
will be comprized in three large o&avo velumes. ™
11. Fortfcethree'V.iumes, bound ii. -boards, the price to
fubferibers is to be only four dollars, and to non-fubferi- ~
: -bers, five dollars and a half. 1
HI. The fubfcritieion (hall remain ©pea for ten days, and "'V
if in encouraging number of fubfciibersare obtained in [
that time, the publilher engages to have the work'ready ?
for deliveryin fix weeks from the present date. '
15th November, 1796.
N. B. Subscriptions are t; ken by the principal bookfet- pa
lers of Philadelphia aud New York. th '
The lubfcribers to the History of Jacohinifm are ref
peflfully informed, that it will be ready for delivery
early nest week. *'
Nov 16. g r eaj
~ —— 41
Sales of Malaga Wine and Brandy. ; Ba
On Saturday morning, the i 9 th inft. at 10
o'clock, will be fold at Morris's wharf, just above f n
the Drawbridge, by Public Aud ion,
100 Qr. calks old Mountain Wine, and ro"o
15 butts of Brandy, j. sa
For-approved indorsed notes at 60 days.
WM. SHANNON, AuiVioneer. n»,
- 2 Bui
Washington Lottery. cW
The 38th and 39th days' drawing of the Washington rUD
Lottery, No. a, are received at the office No. 234, Mar- f." 0 .
ket-ftreet, where ticket? may be examined. •
N. B. Information given where tickets in all the other ' ngS
lotteries may be procured. cies
November 17, 1796. T
- —— for,
JOHN MARKLAND, • L
Printer, Bookseller, and Stationer, v f n
No. 91, South Front Street,
received by the laftarrivals from London, an afTort
ment of Stationary, which he wHI fell on the most
reasonable terms, confiding of—
A great variety of copper-plate printing paper, from
.3.3 by 27 inches to the smallest size ; fuperfine, impe
rial, super-royal, royal, medium, demy, folio, and A
quarto post, foolfcap and pott writing paper ; marble •
and blotting papsr, large and small rreffage card 3, sand " Cg a
and pounce boxes, shining sand, ink and ink-powder, n
pencils, quills, crown, half crown, and common size f/ o eit
Iri/h wafers, coloured and red; India rubber, pen-knives Otu'
lead and pewter ink-flands, do. chests, cork soles, copy w ith
books, Jlatee and pencils, Entick's diaionatv, Watts' thew
p& iTr s ' t!i„ ,
Alio, iome elegant jprints, an assortment of blank- tion <
bosks, American manufaflurefl writing paper, do. play the o
ing C2rds of a superior quality; and a collection of trees.
BOOKS, London and American editions. be in!
Nov. 12.
To be Let, JS
A Isrge cellar, in Walnut-flreet jnfl above Fourth-Street, that _
is flo.red with two inch plsok, and will bold upwards of ico *roii
pipes of wine. A
Also, aSiable acd Coach-hpufr, that will hold four bar- near
Stt and IWB carriages ; and (everai floret in Fourth Street- for a
Apply to Nc
George Meade.
Who has for sale, '-pi
85 boxes of Castile soap JL
Red Lifboa Wine 4 at,
A few pipes of bill of exchange wine Publi
A few barrels ol Iriih raefs beel 4 at
And a few barrel* of fbip bread. Com
*OV k 4*, Losdi
gr A Stated Meeting j'
; • > Of the Philosophical Society
ICES, Will be held at their Hall THIS EVEI>TING at
6 o'clock. Friday, Nov. i 8" I
.jo Philadelphia, November 18, 1796. I
,9 ' THE STOCKHOLDERS "
Of the Bank of the United States F
Are hereby informed, I j,
THAT, -according to the Statute of Incorporation, a J
General Eleilion fur Twenty-Five Dircctoks will be I
inklin, tf ] e of the United States, in the City of I 1
I'ounir 'p h ' 3 ' on Monday the second day of January
next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon. I a
And, pursuant to the eleventh letffcion of the Bye Laws, j (
the Stockholders of the said Bank are herehy notified to v
afTemble a General Meeting, at the fame place, on Tuef- I
day the third day of January next, at five o'clock in the I a
O* evening. y
n and By order of the Board-os Direflnrs. j h
G. SIMPSON, Cafnicr. j ,j
2nd Fundamental Article. I
more (nan three fourths of the Directors in office j C
. exclusive of the President, shall be eligible for the next J °
- succeeding year, but the Director who {hall be President |tl
at the time of an election may always be re-eleAed. Jn!
tftel. C
In the Press, oi
And will be ptiblilhed ia a few days by MATHEW J pi
ting. CAREY, at No. 118, Market-flreet, 1 fe
AN ADDRESS
rame, C]~ o Elect ors 0 J fjjg Pygfifent C J tJjg th
United States, "
Firfl published in the Gazette of the United States, in
a series of papers udder the denature of
" A federalist"" ta
Containing feme flricflures on Mr. Adams's De- I ex
fence of the American Conflitutions, and on the j is
Efiays of Phocion, since publilhed without that I
signature, in a pamphlet entitled " The pretensions of
Thomas Jefftrfb* to the Prelidency examined, and I „ n
the charges against John Adams refuted." I .
Nov. 18. 11 _ I
rvs. M I de
An elegant Bay Horse for sale, of
Enquire at George Green's Stables, in Pine-street, I nu
- , between Fourth and Fifth-ftreets. enl
ding- T ° V ' lS- 1U_ W 5°
;aged THE PartnerAiip of JONATHAN HARVEY sTco. '" n
: and being this day DilTolved by mutual consent, those indebt- COt
ad to ed to fa.d firm ate requested to make speedy payment to wh
Linels Jonathan Harvey, who is authorized to receive the fame, my
and these who have any demands will please to brintr in fits
their accoonts to him for settlement J
at", U f inc f s Wlli be Continued W<
leb ' Sy Jonathan Harvey, a v<
AT HIS STORE NO. 106, S. ■FRONT-STREET; ur l
Where he has for Sale, lcav
cein A general assortment of Dry Goods, to!
" had November 14, t 79 6. §im cut,
oel - FOR SALE,
inef- ' A valuable Plantation, or^
Fre<l " ick County, Virginia, bounding nearly three com
on , th , e Shenandoah, between oft
and Snicker , Ferry ; 66 miles from Alexandria, and the one
Phi- l,ke <hflan«e from the Federal City. It contains 19-6
acres, 600 of which are cleared, the residue finely tim- I" 5 /
fn si ' n V/h ° ! Jlmeftone or Riv « Bo"om ; abounding lef »
m fine streams and fpr.ngs; above 80 acres on the bank by (
!• wa t«ed at pleasure. It is capable fore
" w i lnt ° Lots of 100 with wafer" on ,
'=>ge ', Whlch u peculiarly convenient for grazing u" "
fe it ment !ts fitua'ion for Health or elegant improve
ment is not to be furpafled in any inland country, and ,f leac :
=to f! cl r cd t °° r g e for onc farm, may be divided into two to fy
fcri- .® ee fo,a ' ler ones . uniting in common advantages — but
There is n.w ereded on the Estate a good Merf"ant hL
and ,U ' Wlth two pair of stones (on a large limestone fprin 2^
Jin re " ts , fer 466 dollars per ann. and an another'vever r" g '
ady fj'lmg-fprmg a good Saw Mill, with a flutter wheel • f " er
,^ n re 15 of P'nc timber in the neighbaring moun
tain, and a stream fufficient for another Mill with four tecel
fe!- . P if\ o t r*T the . fe are ad i accnt to or immediately or p-jfl--
the banks of the river, the navigation whereof is about I
•ef- hemg opened into the Potomak and for more than icm
ery *^ e * a bove the miUs. The other improvements on Uoa
«n hi "f 4 DCW commod ' ous Ba rn, the loft of which is of tl
capable of containing 1500 (ralhels; the threfhmg-floor is state
- 4" 1 feet square, well planked : another (do,Aw r f
Barn, with feeds all around: a Diftillcrv with tk °" °
large Stills, and a Granary above that will' contain <00 V™?
io bu&cls, well covered w.th Ihinglet, and a stream of wa- the Jl
-er, conduced by troughs, running thro' it; a t a small P»nif
distance is a large Cow-House and Stable, with ftalh in? t
II cows, paved with stone in the European manner with fuher
id room for above 40 waggon loads of hay : a little further
is a strong ftone-walied Spring-House, completely fitted a " 7 '
for a Dairy -The whole of these Mills and Buildings to V 0
are at a proper d,dance from each other, ar,d from the Certa
Dwdlmg, wbveh eonfifts of commodious Frame If
_ Buildings, with the necessary cor.veniencies A w,!7
closed Garden of the fineft foil, with a stream of water ■ X ' 7
>n running thro ,t ; two large Aopic fe 4S ' 8llr ?'
r * o°°. r rr, f S ° r . luildin K and limestone ; a number of Inan v
Out-Houfes for Managers, Blackfnith, Cooper, and lod? Pular
ings for Men of Colour add greatly to the converien the U
cies and value ®f this Estate. . convenien- ine U
The Purchaser, on paying one half the price aereed
for, may be accommodated with a considerable credit for gh
the remainder and with tke Cattle, Horse,, W™ This 1
tion an furniture, at a reasonable vflua- duty,
the Thorn" "T made tS a " d CC
Philadelphia, or Matthias SlJugh, Lanca a fter." ' mOnS m ,^ Ve "
1 jfoggfr'nr, igthOctober, r7Q j.I?" LKr : R .:, s radai
! TOBE SOLD, dif/ra',
1 A *' L^I^ ATI P N ' in th e town of Woodbury coun 1
tioa of which is woodland id „td 0 P w P °A H
I great part of th, arable land is in a WfLSTSoTw
- tion, and very natural to the prcdudion o'" Red r,
sOn said plantation there i, a genteel ftlv . u i° V^
I wuh f 0 r6oms on a flQori Lda tf'
the whole: together with 11,,„ „ ;' cpilj r under
: trees. Any person iaclined to ourchafe said w aPP C " I
be mformed of the terms by « W f
July 19 ANDREW HUNTER. tie, of
" ~—,< —j — of his
v .. 1 olet; cn.bi.-f
* r ° m this day, to the tweuty.cighth of April, , 7Q7 of effa
r.e« Sr« Hn s^° Ufe m Stcond-ftrect, No. ,33' title of
for a lodging w"a ((ore-" k " lated «ther' writer ,
Nov. 16. papers
P.tlm
A atthe^ may fUtUrCbe fup l >lled w: "h r,^at g art! Davi,a
W ordermg ££ «c»c. '
Loido'u. ' X y Q t0 MaltU & Co. P«f« fc
•» wfm 4 w I and dift
• From the Virginia Herald.
G at
Mr. Green,
~~ THE reasons inserted in your last paper, and
9 ' I addrcffed to Mr. Mayo, why Mr. Jefferfon should
I not be chosen President, were published in Davis's
-S I paper of the 12th inft. They contain cogtnt ob-
Ijc&ions; which, if well-fouuded, a< I take them
Ul'be t0 be ( exce pt tbe 6th, from which 1 dissent) ought
ty of 10 bt; conclufwe against him as the ftrcceffor ol Mr.
nuary Wafliington. Any perfoß, to whom the power of
I an tleftor is coafided, will surely not consult "coßfif
edto "" nC -'P rinci P les > who would not vote for Mr.
T'uef- j bad he not declined being considered
a the as . onc out °f whom a choice is to be made, and yet
I will vote for Mr. Jefferfon as his successor ; as tho'
he were the successor of his political feeling?, fenti
er - ments and opinions $ whereas it stands apparent to
office I evcr 7 mEn wno has taken an impassioned viewof
next | our public affairs for the l?.ft three years, that
Idem J the supporters of the latter, have been the constant '
1 and uniform oppofers of the adminiflration of '
George Wafliington, the revilers and calumniators '
of that great man, and whose efforts have been '
I.W | pointed to drive him from office, to make room '
for his successor.'' 1
The following isan extract of a letter, written to '
the I P ec '^ l who now transcribes it, by one of the c
I ableit politicians that America ever gave birth to,
in I andlv " o ' s now, alas! no who, when alive, w; 3 r
not appreciated up to the weight and value of his fc
talents, his services and his integrity. I-qnote the a
De-1 extraa to shew, that the Freeholder's sth objedlion '
the I '* undeniably supported. "
tha U Jth Sept. 1788. "
15 of « What a figure did the state of Virginia make "
anQ under the government of one of these men during "
the war, with an almost imperial eftabliSiment of "
— departments, state troops, spy boats, forts, a train "
lor attillery of twenty-four brass ordnance, and in- "
eet, J numerable iron ones—arms and ammunition fuffici- "
j ent for the Ottoman army—the entire command ef
I 50,000 militia—comrnjflloners and quarter-mailers
~ I innumerable—a power of corresponding with the 01
bt- CGmma nder in chief-and congress, so as to gain w
:to whatever intelligence they could give of the ene- 1,1
me, my's motiani! S» circumflanced, general Arnold
in fits out an expedition from New-York—fails to the P c
I Chesapeake, through the bay, up James river to an
I Weftover, where he lands, and marches through not 3
a very pradicable country to Richmond, where he,
T; I surprises the governor, who, however, efcapel,
leaving every thing public in and about Richmond, Nl
( S. Ito be destroyed by the enemy; who, having exe
cuted this at leisure and unmolested, return as they " a
came. How many »uns were fired, during this
invasion, in defence of the state > Not one, small
or great. With what force did the governor and co
e« commander in chief of all the land and naval forces 113
up ef the state appear against the invader? With not vol
t>e one man. If a baby in its cradle had been gover- P r(
7 nor and commander in chief, could he have done tio
ig ! cf *i Cer,ai ° l r D °t. Again, the state is invaded an(
ik "Y Cornwallis—the commander in chief of all the t0
je forcqs of the state by sea and land, stations himfelf fel,
m on Monticelli, where, as that admirable historian, Ru
S biographer, journalist, and general, M. de Caste- enl
lf .esux, obierves, the sublimity of his mind seemed P er
ro t° sympathise with the fublimitv of his situation P ar
- but colonel Tarleton, being n#refpeaer of hisV ado
t- blrme excellency, detaches himfelf from the invad- a S°
, r ' n « 3rm T> with one hundred and fifty men, rides afic
"witty-five miles thro' a most defenfible coantrv, cao
drives his sublimity from his contemplation on Mon- in 1
r la^cs and disperses the reft of the le- and
n giflature, destroys a great quantity of property and ordl
0 ttores, and returns to his general. What oppofl- tura
e Hon was made to this handful of men, in defence ful 1
is of the property of the state—the people of the 1
is rf~n fce honour of the ftate—aud the legislature vtla
| of the state ? None. Did the commander-in chief 13 111
3 " ra y his milina ; N°. Did he give intelligence to the
. the legislature ? No. Did he make an attempt to Natl
1 punish the temerity of this incursion, by orevent- P o1 "
r ing the retreat, and retrieve and vindicate' the in- T
> iulied honour of the state, and its governor ? Not t!aor
j any. Could a baby iq the cradle, whether on the COI, -' ]
. top or at the foot of a mouatain, have done less > tbc 1
. Certainly not. ,>
If this extract be history and fafi, and not poet- W
ry, you will agre e with me, that the s th obieaion Ti
is urged with propriety, and founded in truth. The mi
man who objects himfelf to popular favours and po- J r
pular honours, especially the most pre-eminent in Eu
Slates, expofea his public character and p
condua to public scrutiny. As citizens, we have- a, *
a right to dedicate ourselves to this examination— f 1 i
1 his privilege has been taken ; aad deeming it my !•
duty, have followed the example of the Freeholder
and co.onel Symms. With private character,, we I l-V,
have no concern Any ftriflures on these, would
be a violation of the liberty of thepref s , and a de-
gradation to the authar. « Attacks," favs a n
lawyer, " upon private reputation, are the'bane and 3r }
disgrace of the pref,, by which a man may be ren
dered unhappy during l,f f , by afperfiors, cruel, fear, f®?"
dalous and unjust." Nene of these (hall ever efcapc !«
ra) hps, nor be uttered by my pen. ' 2I1!
ANOTHER FStEEHOIDER, ~
" on
amaai wll
For the Gazette of the United States. " go
_ No/VI.
To the Ekflors of the Present of the United Stale, the' p
XfoftabU Fellow. Citizens, ' tCrwa
eftabhfhment of the federal government , ,/ "
of essays have appcared in J r Ca "7" '
tUle of « Difcourfet upon DavUa" £ Eur" " C
writer upon the ancient revolutions of France Thef" 77
papers have been generally and miW 1 r Franc,
Mr. Adams, who resided Hnr' PUbl ' d y. afc "bed ,0 Ad™
publication, at the feat off' '" g ® e ,lme of their vised t
w ? n S d 7 fre V° tlieAram '™»S. cthey p 7 er
«op.c « " Wh
pases some questions. as s™ P r °- "on
and diftinaions in the solio '° ° rdcr *
fDifcourfe
"la thereany thing in birth 'r^ v , a ,
" Republican) however illuftriou.
" {hould make a difference between ontN.
, and " "Other? If, from a common ancestor, tv ™ , :
hould " hun | an race «* descended, they are all *■'
lavis's " family. How then can they distinguish family*
nt ob- " i" 10 the more or the less ancient > What ads
them " ta g e is there in an illustration of an handled""'
jught " thousand yeatg ? Of what avail are all d e l ii}*"
f Mr. " r, « s < pedigrees, traditions, See. ? Butlbi, aiiva
ver of " tage ml, ft be derived from his father and t "
onfif- " chiefly, if not wholly. Of what .W, r!a •
Mr. " "then, in this view, whether the family stw '
dered " f Y generations upon rccord, or only two."
4 yet qaeftions from the opponent to hereditary dT
, ,J, O » tindions and orders the writer gives, at from iL r;J
fenti- 1,113 te P'. v . mighty kcret liea in'thiUJj ' -
nt to "An iliuftiious descent attra&s the'notiee ef
:W'of " mankind. A /ingle drop of royal b!oo, J , {-. 0 , T
that " ever scattered will make any „■
iftant 'or woman proud or vain. Why? r
, n of " although it excites the: indigMhm of m tln ] "'j
ators " l ' lc env y °f more, it Jlill attracts the alt
been "°f worJd." Thus does the writer of th"
room " Difcoarffis upon Davila" view even the
lawful " Scatterings" of £oyal loins _ H
en to incongenial are t'nefe sentiments, with the 1
: t h c of our Constitutions ? Again—
to, t ' lor ,h f lc dijeourfes then {represents the ms „
, wis nrr ' 10 wl)ich various nations have severally t i(J
f his kliflied royalty, nobility, orders and diftindHo,,-
.J he ar,d . lays—" Other nations have united at! thJc
irion -wjiituticn: [[or modes of rbyalizing and enn
'' offices and them
3. alUefiend Ugether, #blic attentkn,
lake ~ *~d congratulati n along with them.
ring lhls has been the poh.-y of Europe: and favs
I°F « ° U ff. aU ' hor ' ff/y explaining himfelf, it is to this
rain "-f'tutiOß, which /be [Europe] owes her fuberio-
I in- (< r "y> war and peace, in legiflatjon and eon- '
g ci . merer, m agn.-aUur?, navigation, arts, fancc:
iof f ™ a y™ufaftures* to - —. '
lers ! iv efpeclabJe eL-tfors, we entreat yoii to read
tj, e onca more this bold and explicit afferticn of the '
;ain wrlterof " the discourses." To what does it a
rtC" 7D 'f °f; 1™ tbat W
old de/cent of landed estates, legiCative and executive
the P o wer, and rank in the families of emperors, kintr S
and no Dies, unbalanced as we have shewn by even
not a virtual representation of the people, have pro .
he ' cnul,^f t " M exifthig among mankind—
>e», !~' J ub -'me ameuat ations of the human charaiicr *.
nd, Neither the pswerful and continual inflnences of
X(m tocic chrtlates, ntir the divine power of liie Cbrif.-
ley ' la " rell g'°n itfelr, according to our -author, have
his y ad an y effect in giving eneigy or dignity to man.
|a j[ it amounts also to an explicit declaration, that the
n( a conititution and government of our country mult
:cs have the mod deleriora:ing influence upon 'the di
lot vote d Americans, uirlcfs we hatlen to make our
prelident and senate hereditary, to give large p or .'
nc tions or landed,eitate and power and rank to them
e(1 and tofuch elder children as they-may "chtnu"
he to Lave, " trufling Providence rather tl«n them
e)f selves after the manner of happy Germans,
n, Ruffian » and Poles, over whole favored countries
:e- cr, ''ghtening mortarchs teig»..faiou's,-
permit <>s to offer for your confutation scd cpm'-
_ parilon the situation of America, as it Rood 011 the
ti- adoption of representative government twenty years
j. ago, and at the present day : and fuffer tra then to
eg al.c yoar calm determination, whether the Ameri
y, can people are inferior at this time to those of 1-76
n _ in the vanoußarts, of peace, in military knowledge
e _ and practice, in legislation, both c'ovjlitutional and
id ordl » ar y' i 10 commerce and navigation, in agrlcul
rj_ tural fkil! and energy, in manufadures and the «fe
:e a [ ts » ;id ' n 'he whole circle of the sciences.
le Xhe twelfth number of " the discourses übon Da
e vua, contains but a dozen lines of ptofe. The reft
:t 15 mat!e U P of poetical extiadls from pj\e, whom
o !-; e wr 'W compliments, as " the great matter of
0 Nature," and as " a great teacher of morality and
politics." •
le following paflage extracted from our au
t -'S poetical feletlicns, at once proves his own
e and (hews that he admires the writer of
1 cbe P oet ry thepo/itich he teaches.
" " "Oh when degree :s fluk'd,
is the ladder to all high dt&gnt,
1 2, enterprise is sick ! how could commiimtirt.
Depress w iiootls in cities,
The primogeniture and due of birth,
Prerogative of age, crowns .iisßtres, laurels,
1 But by degree, liand in authentic place
Poetry does not afford an example of more ar
dent declamation in favor of monarchy. But the
; eieaors are aware that it is the region of ha ion and
fancy—not of truth and reason. We tru& it will
require movefoberprofe, than can be written in the
: eighteenth century, to pcrfuade the people of the
United States to abandon the principles of our date
and federal constitutions.
By some accident the thirteenth number of " the
discourses" is also maiked as-the twelfth. In that
paper our author explicitly proposes, that " it fhali
be left to the contemplation of .oar Sale phyfici
" ans, to discover the causes and the remedy of that
'■fever, whereof our power is fick-. One questi
on only [says he] {hall be rcfpeßfully irf.nuaied : ,
" whether equal laws, the refultonlyof a balanced
government, can ever be obtained and prcur ved
[[ w «thout fomejigns or other of diftmSien , and de
, Z rc ~'_ author requires no commentator on
the passage jufl quoted. He fays immediately af
terwards. " VVc are told that our friends, the 'Na. -
« ' l ." nal Affesibly tf aboiilhed all *
l( clrtlnc -i«ns. But he not deceived, my deur coun
(l !' yme r!.' Im P°JF bl! ' ul " e ""not is performed? &c.
„ "~' C \ HIJVC tilc French officers,, who served in A. i
" hons"' mC ' ted tlleil ' at " J tora their rib.
Our author in the fourteenth discourse reiterates to
ranee, who bad begun her revolution, what Mr.
virtTl ? ,t0 £ . uro Pe in general, when he ad-
r Cm o ?'*' t0 alm at one branch, deriving its
ai?j VCr people, and to preserve their kings
and nobies » The National Afll.nblv of France
" Wh' oyc rlo'>.k the enquiry.
"on Wl .„u i°" l ' ] * * n °^ s ' eharafletbf the nali. ,
« w P rcdu ced, by destroying, if that
" all *h " 2| - attention to families, and letting /
aJ ' hl " hiJCsoa pursuit of Wheti^-**■ unlrcr'alTfnaTft y, and an Incorrigible corruption
" in eleSions, I'ould not be the necessary c®nfe
" quence. the election of the two thirds
" has yi bedeemed venal] It may be relied on,
f " hi) f ays our author, " that the intentions of
«« i>at augufl and magnMninious assembly, aremifun
•' derjlood and misrepresented. Time will develope
" their designs, will (hew them to be more judici
u ous than to attempt impossibilities Jo obvious, as
T « that of the abolition of all dillinftions." Yet
ourqwn nation and government acknowledge none.
George Wash ington has not made a worse Pre
fident, because he was plainly called so by ourJlrJl
legislature.
We (hall give one, more affertionof the author of
the difcourf«s, which is round indeed, and fully ex
plains the writer's meaning. He observes, " That
there is already a fciliion, m the national alterably,
like all others, pall, prefern, and to come, is molt
certain. There is an ariflocratical party, a demo
cratical party, an armed neutrality, and, moll pro
bably, a monarchical party ; bcfides another division.
who mujl finally prevail, »r liberty will be lojl—
I mean, a set of members, who are equal friends
to monarchy, arijlocracy, and democracy, and wi(h
for an equal independent mixture of all three in their
conflitutwn."
We shall not trouble tbe eleftorj with any obser
vations on this explicit passage, nor with further
quotations or remarks upon '* the Discourses upon
Davila." It is generally believed that Mr. Adams
was the writer. We fully credit the afTertion, be
cause we never heard of the flightefi denial or coun
ter luggeftion, and because of the perfect coincidence
between thafe discourses, and his books concerning
the American couftitutions.
A FEDERALIST.
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
A PUBLICATION in your gazette signed A
Federalffhus entertained some offßur readers with
,»sj explanation of Mr. Jefferfon'j negro tranfporta
'.ion scheme; there is a eurious (lory told in this
town about another transportation feheme, which
was somewhat different from Mr. Jefferfon's ; for
of a return cargo of white emigiants, it
was to have produced a return cargo of dollars and
' sugar from the Weft Indies— r perhaps your corres
pondent the Federalist rr.»- give tis the hiilory of
that business, having bi tis (aid secretary to a
✓ society, well acquainted v.llh tbe si heme,
■ CURIOSITY.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
A disguised Anti, muffled in a Federal cloak,-
who is publilhiug lon£.j,vinded essays .against Mr..
Adams and panegyrics on Mr. Jefferfon, is sup
posed to be a certain officer of the federal govern
ment, known to be diflatisfied with the present ad
ministration because some ridiculous pretentions have
been overlooked. He expects undet a new one,
to rife mote rapidly. There have been heretofore
complaints against the tardiness and neglect of this '
officer, occafionedjby all employment of that time,
in writ in,' fcflays agatrTtt the treaty and the govern
ment, which his duty fheuld have applied to the
pwblic service. A mifpenfe of his time, in (l.:n- '
dering Mr. Adams, will probably produce limilar 1
complaints hereafter If a public officer is dif- 1
gulled with the adminillration, be onght to resign, 1
and not pocket the public money while he is injur- '
ing the public service by a neglect of duty.
A man of pride End spirit would ftorn to aft '
with ait administration which he is working to un
dermine, or to be the servant of a government he
*vifhes to overturn. None but a mean and fordid
tool would aft the part of a concealed enemy, grin
ning smiles in the face of those whose reputation he
t is llabbing behind their backs.—As to his pretended
aversion to the Rrit'ifb conftitutipn, it is more pre
polterous than all the reft of his cooduft Does
he think the ftoiy of a certain laurelled and tri
umphal entry into this city is forgotten ? Will the
public believe that this canting zeal for republican
ism is sincere? HINT.
f ; 1,1 IM * l
FOR THI GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fctltttrj- - - *
1 HE hillo-y of Poland is referred to by a wri.
teriu your paper, to warn us against the influence
of foreign powers at our elections. The cautiou
is a wife one, and I hope our citizens will profit by
it. But your correspondent is raiftaken in faying
that the eraprefs of Rufiia always marched an army
to the pl ( ace of election ; the had fdmetimes ? much ] !
cheaper and easier mode of fettling the business. 1
Wire® (he found that the object could be accom- 1
" plifhed in that way, (he would sometimes inftruft 1
her ambafiador to pick a quarrel w:th the poor '
Poles, a few weeks before the election, and to sus
pend his functions, until the nation elected a king, 1
who by being a partizan of Russia would set every <
thing right. In the mean time the merceaaries of
the emprefs'would make a great llir and cry and '
frighten the poor Poles with a dread of the £*»- r
press s wrath, unless they elected a favorite of her's. c
—It was only when the Poles had spirit enough to 1
talk of cboofing a king to plesfe theoifelves that'
Catharine feut her Cossacks and her Candours to ]
bully them into p. c
— c
c
For the Gamette of the United States.
By uniting we stand, by dividing we {,
FAI.L. I
1 775-
2
I liberty and independence or SELF GOVERN- c
MENT are the ehoicctt gifts of heaven to the ci- e
tizens of the United States: For these we fought si
eig|)t years—and eight years we have enjoyed them, v
"under a government of our own choice, administer- ti
ed by men of our own choice; the men, whose v
K *vifdom, fortitude anti bravery atehieved what we e
enjoy. These men are our choice, have repeat- a
ct;, ySen our choice—we have tried them "in the li
/.'K'tJ ■ '*' tried men's fouls" —they never have de
cctvcd neur will deceive us, and while ai
ion heaven continues their live 3we will trud in them s
nfe- cdnfide in their patriotism, and fuppprt with all i
rds our united tNERcv, their counsels. i
on, If the administrators of any foreign government, 1
rof are plesfed to entertain an unfavorable opinion of i
an- us, heaven can bear us witnets, it is not our fault. '
e "Internal traitors whom the genius of our free go- I
ici- vernment did not permit us to crush, have, for.fe- i
as ven years pad, been incessantly reviling our govern- <
set ment, and through that, the people of the United <
ne. States : for it ought never to be forgotten that the i
re government emanates from the people, and the ob- i
rfl jests of abuse have been not only the government, £
but the men who have repeatedly united the great- 1
of ell portion of the fuffrages of the people This 1
:x- is the principal source of the alarm that has been <
lat excited—Americans, union is all. United to
ly, your government you are fafe—OivUjd you are 1
jfl: 1011. You will hold your lives, liberty, property! *
to- and independence at the will of foreigners. i
' J
'"* v D {
_ v rHXLADELPHIA,
FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 18, 1796.
Ir On Sunday the 20th inft will be kept the anni
versary of the firft opening'of the German, Roman, v
r " Catholic church, called the Holy Trinity, situated | '
er at the corner of Sixth anti Spruce streets. | I
an The Divine Service will be with vocal and inftru- i 1
ns mental mulic, and begin at half pall 10 o'clock in 1 a
the morning, and at 3 in the afternosn. '
A Sermon will be delivered on the occasion by f
the pallor and profeffor J. N. Goetz, and the di- c
vine service will bs held by the revd. the profeffor, £
William Elling. I
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in Paris, dated '
September 2d, 1796, to his friend in Philadel- £
phia.
" The French Government within these 8 days e
has recalled Mr. Adet—he will make some declara- !
A tion of coutfe of diffatisfaftion with our measures ' Th
■ h in America, and fay that the diplomatic functions
a- of his country cease with him, till fomeYuture more I
is favorable disposition (hall call them into action again
:h from France—that a certain Rumber of confwls are C
>x left for the purposes of trade to whom they still look p
it for former protection. ''
id 'Tisthought Spain has ceded to France part of f
f- Louiiiana.—that France intends theie to form an
as army for the invasion of Canada—that our back
a f.-ttlers ate necessary for the enterprize, and that
they think their schemes will go better forward v j
whilst they have no Miniller in the country. Per- 31
haps their policy goes to join our back settlements "
to Louiiiana and Canada. I think, however, that a '
the guarantee of the Spanilh settlements in Ameri- .
ca'is the equivalent for L«?uifiana. Therefore our U
r - people by this plan may lose the Atlantic dates, and "
>" would be finally barred by their new friends from '
g«t"'ng the southern outlet from their country."
' e Extract of a letter from Franklin county, dated ai
November 14th, 1796.
" There is but little news here worth communi- h;
s eating. I'he anti-federalifts were busily engaged
for feveTal weeks previous to the 4th of November m
in circulating hand-bills and fallhoods through this
e 113I 13 ' 1 °/ the cou:.try. In font-of the neighboring j a
_ counties there was scarce a rascal to be faund that , a
r had rendered himlelf conspicuous by heading a mob
- or by his aflilh'ng in raising a whilkay pole, who
ha«i not been addressed upon the fubjeft of the late R
election, tlianked for his former patriotic feryices,
and folicitcd again to exert himfelf in the cause of t )'
liberty and equality."
It has been whispered in private circles by fomty "
zealous partizans that we mull expect a visit in r°
' some of our ports between this and the firfi IVed- «
e nefday in December by the French squadron which ui
. has been havering about the c&all for some weeks
" pail. m
m
, s Late letters from France inform us that the di- £H
leftory are wsak and divided, sometimes favoring (
the moderates and sometimes the jacobins, accord- ,
ing as one or other party predominates. This ac- •
connts for the escape of Drouet, Babceuf and o
thers, who, though convicted of treason, have fuf
fered no pumlhment whatever. The afiignats are %
out or circulation and the mandats nearly so. The .
. public creditors ire completely ruined, and all the !>t
• specie that can be collected isfent to the armies and
to foreign nations.
U _ Fi
From the Aurora. cl
y 10 relieve in feme degree the impatience of the
|, public, as to Mr. Adet's lad note to oar execa- V a
tive, v.-e promised an outline of its contents. We C o
. fulhl the talk, with as much accuracy as is compa- pr
t tible with the brevity we are obliged to observe, and a n
r the intricacy of the fubjeft. tr
■_ The miniller of the French republic, through '
t the whole of his note, speaks 33 acting under the ve
. express orders from the executive directory.
f After exprefiing the attachment of his govern- I l ]
j ment for the American people, he complains, in the m<
. name of the directory, of a violation, on the part r ;
. our executive, of the 17th article of the treaty of th,
> 1 £ u j
t The firft part of that article stipulates, that the
1 French (hall be at liberty to bring their prizes ir.to we
our ports, without its being lawful for any of our tha
officers to take cognizance of their validity. In in
contempt of this (lipulation, he states, that several
i'rench prizes,, brought into our ports, have been p r
feiy.ed, tried, and rettored to their original owners, f er
w.th various degrees of delay, vexation, iniuftice, w
and injury. 1 vv
He complains, that the English were fuffered to
aim in out ports, in various inilances, and that the
complaints of the agents of the Frecnh republic
'V? P rov ed mcffeftual in (lopping them. Persons, da<
impeded of having assisted in arming French pri- the
vateers, were immediately thrown into prison, while tio
thole concerned in arming Britilh vessels, were ne- ftei
vcr molcfted—The executive, in these instances, mi,
exhibiting an evident partiality for the English, the
and no regard for the maintenance of their neutra- not
lity.
11 - hC ft 'P u , latlon » in art 'cle 17th, ptsohiSits to]
all Eoglifh (hip., tb« /hsll have made French pri fide
n, zes, frona entering our ports. Oiir executive Lave, >
ill in their conflru&ion of this fbpnlation, confined
its prohibitary effedl to British vessels attempting
it, to come in with their prizes. The minister protests,
of in the name of the directory,,againft the propriety
it. of this conflruftion. He considers it an attempt,
o- to add to, not to explain the article. Even on the
e- supposition, that the article is doubtful, he infills i
n- on the impropriety of an ex Jtarle conftruftion. He i
cites sundry examples of English (hips of war hav- i
le ing entered our ports, contrary to this stipulation,
b- having made them convenient stations the better to
t, annoy the Prench, and having, even contrary to ■
t- the forced interpretation given to the 17th article '
is by our executive, bro't their prize 9 into our potts, 1
;n Sc there refitted them, to cruize againfl the French. -
:o The mimfter next adverts to Jay's miffian. He
re dates, that France was deceived by the declarations t
:y , of our executive', when that business was set on 1
; foot ; and that the dirpftory confioers the British c
m ; treaty as depriving France of all the advantageous t
j ftipulaticns intended to he secured to her by the j
treaty of 1778 —as tending to render the neutrali- t
ty of America.advantageous to the English, to the J,
detiiment of France.
This treaty abandons the modern law of nations
a , which even England had fanftioned in eleven treat
J | ties, and we in every prior commercial treaty with c
j European nations. It gives the English the facili
j. j ty of obtaining the transportation of naval itores
n 1 and warlike implements witherfoevei they please, t
j vinder the fhclterof the American flag, while this t
y facility is denied to France; and thus it changes v
j. during the war, the refpedivc footing of the belli- p
rj gerent powers with refpedt to us. The treaty, he t
further slates, cuts off the fupplics in provision v.
j which France looked for from this country, by fti- t
j pulating, that the Britifli may, in every situation, fl
seize our provifion-vefft'ls bound 10 the ports of their t.
enemies. 111 short, hi considers it a breach of our C
neutrality,, unless the French be allowed to partake r
in the advantages it holds out to Great Britain.—n si
He also daims this participation in pursuance of the a
e 2d article of the treaty of 1778, which grants the I:
n French all the advantages ofcc I merce & navigation tl
e enjoyed by the mod favouied nations : and in this h
; point of view, the orders to the Fiench vessels of o
war, to treat the American flag, in every refpeft,
j- as we shall fuffcr it to be treated by the English,
have been issued. '1
' The miuiflei proceeds to protest in the name and
by the orders of the executive dirc6hiry against the 6
. violation of the 17th article. He claims replevy of C
all seizures, and the aonullisg of all judicial afls
with refpeft to Fiench prizes, and protests against n
t all oppofitiotf to the sale of prizes.
He protefls against the violation of the fame ar
ticles by our admitting into our ports Britifli arm
j ed vessels, and against the interpretation put to it
! by o'.:s. executive upon that article. p
He'declares that the directory considers oilrtreaty D
with Britain as a violation of their treaty with us ; C
and as equivalent tj> a treaty of alliance with that ®
nation ; and, in consequence, orders him to suspend
his minifleti.il functions here. v y
The diredtory declare, that they do not wish this jj
measure to be confidercd in the light of a ruptnre, K
1 a -rnatkof thtir feiife of injury, which is to
bit until they can olitain fatisfaflion. They reite- C
rate their expressions of friendfhip for the PeopW
the wrongs of the executive.
The minifLr concludes by dating, that the French ; j
Republic always jjad it at heart to truhivate harmo jj
ny by a mutual interchange of goad offices; but Si
that our adniiitiftration hive as constantly endeavor- A
ed to break a/under the ties which conlitdt the two
nations. Early under the Republic, the French L
colonies were opened to 11s ? the ports cf-France al
so on the fame footing as to their own vessels.
When England violated the neutral flag, France o- F,
bliged to make use of reprisals, exempted from the G
mejifjure the Americans ; aridtho' forced for a while $
much against their inclination, to withdraw the ex
emption, they early renewed it.
While France was thu3, even during the tempest
of revolution treating the Americans with mark-
ed attention ; what, asks the note, were the execu- m
tive of the United States eijiployed in ? They were
questioning whether they would acknowledge the
republic and receive their ambassador, whether they
fiiouid consider the treaty, the price of American
liberty, binding, whether the envoys from exiled
and rebellious princes (hould be received ; an am
biguous proclamation of neutrality was framed ;
French privateers were harraffed ;,England was fi?F- fr
feredto sport with our neutrality, and to cut up
our commerce to the detriment ef France ; English
(hips of war were admitted in our ports ; *the ad- E
vances of France for a renewal of the treaty of in
commerce weie eluded under the mod frivolous
pretexts, while our executive courted the British c
and solicited a tr.aty by which prostituting our neu
trality we facrificed France to her enemies.
And this whilst a review of fate events, whilll e
very cbjedt around, (till remind ns of the tyranny
of Britain and the generous assistance of France p
The note concludes by calling on Americans to re
member, that if generous minds are alive to inju
ries, they can forgive ; and that the Fiench when
they are treated;as friends, will flill be found faith,
ful friends ancUgenerous allies. gj
The lupplies which France expefied in her Colonies
were cut off ;by our virtually acquiescing in the principle, CI
that a declaration from a Britifb commander placed them n!
in a ltate of blockade.
A reply to Mr. Pickering's answer to the
j-'rencn tniniftcr's firfl note, is given in a note re- r,
n'" t^e Cmvfe tlle a b° v »comraunication. r.
We shall tranflatc it entire for our next.
to
From the Aurora. u ''
The Cazetteof the United States of Wednef H
darlaft insinuates that the late communication of N
the Tiench mimfter to our government, is an elec
tioneenng fcheme._lf the step taken by the mini-
flei had been taken of his own mere motion there -
might be the shadow of f„ c h an appearance; but ~
the rreaiure originated with the directory, and it is
not to be supposed, that they arc in such a manner
acquainted with all the minntise of our politics a < pi
to knowexaftly the period of our. 1
u they were capable of condudt so unwar
\
' /« J
•re, | rantabie as an attempt to ir«flurtiee cur t!r*ro"s
ied would be, they would have timed the r meafu-es
flg better. Ourele&ion of eledtors are over, and if
fts, information of the Hep taken hy the miniftcr could
?ty reach the distant par sos the continent before the
pt, meeting of the elcdlprs, it is not to be fuppsfed
:he that it could have any effedi upon men fe!e<sied fa
ifts carefully from the mass of the people ; men of tri
rie ed firmnefs, and of confiderafale weight of cha
av- rafter.
>n,
to The Aurora of yesterday, after giving us citizen
t0 Adet's valei!i6tory, tells us that he has sent a note
~] e addre (Ted to the Secretary of State, for publication,
S) that its length prevented its infe'rtion, hut that the
h. Aurora would give a JLelch of it.
The editor of that paper is requested to inform
ns the citizens of the United States whence he in
on rives his authority to give Jl-etches, from his pencil,
(h of the official communication of a foreign miniiter, ,
us to the government of the United States.—The
he public cunolity however great, would be better gra
h- tilied by waiting for the pute original, than any
he si etches a la Bache.
ns So little effetSl has a late manoeuvre produced in
a- this city, that the Insurance offices hava made no
th change whatever in their conduit,
li. —
es We understand from the Georgia papers that
e, there is likely to be no valid choice of electors in
is that (late, the legifiature having made no legal pro
ee vilion for that purpose, the two honks having oirly
li- palfed a resolution, prescribing the mode, which by
le the constitution of Georgia is not a legislative aft,
in without the fan'&iun of the govei or The< i.:i(H
---i. tutionof the United States, provides that each >tate
n, (hall appoint ele&ors in such manrrer as the legifla
ir lure thereof may direst, and the constitution of
ir Georgia declares, that the governor fli-rl have the'
Le revision of all bills paficd by both houf , before the
—\ famefhall become laws. In this cafe, the ma .iiei of
le appointing eleftorshas not been directed by a
te lativc a£l, wlthinnhe constitution of Georgia, and
m therefore the electors, if any Ihould be appointed,
is would not be legal ele&ors, within the contlitutiun
sf of the United States.
t, . • —
5> The Chronicle of Boflon, of the 9th, tells u»
that the French mitufter intends to suspend his
J functions for the present : query, how long after the
ie firft Wednesday in December J Query how the
( f Cnionicle of the 9th got knowledge of citizen A
:s det's intention, only communicated to our govern
meat on the 15th.
Election Returns.
Statement of Majorities.
N Ant;-Federal Federal
Philad. c:ty>and county, majority 2076.
y Delaware x B 4
; Cnelkr 413
it iucks 643
, Montgomery 200
Lancaster 1441
York 30 83
3 Berks 140
', Northampton 90
a Northumberland y 7a
Cumberland 6',^
ii Mifflin 4oa
Dauphin S3O
Lucerne ,
" Huntingdon
Bedford jy X
t Somerset .
- Allegheny 3 l^.
0 Washington I4J g
Franklin 2a .
5843 , 6907
Majority for Srfcral 1064
Fayette }
e Greene >- returns not received,
e W efimoreland J
At the close of the poll for an ele&or from the
diflncl in \ lrginia, composed of the counties of
- Frederick and- Berkeley, Col. M. Hunter, had a
. majority of 189.
e, — .
r BY THIS DAY's MAILS.
1 BOSTON, November it.
NAVAL ACTION.
• Nov. 1, lat. 27, long. 72, a flup was spoke with
from London lor Norfolk, which failed about the
5 ill of O&obcr. The Captain informed, that an
! important naval action had occurred between an
. ! English and French fquaarfln ; which terminated
f in favor of the latter,
s —
1 GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES MARINE LIST.
PHILADELPHIA, November ig.
, ARRIVED.
DA V R
; Brig Sally, Keith, Norfolk 10
Franklin, Brenton, Wilmington
, , Lady Vafhington, Gerrifh, Newbury port lS
Schooner Ann, Brown, Cape N. M 22
CLEARED.
Ship Edward, Wickham, London
' ci P x h T iladel Ph' a , Bliss, Bristol
. Sloop Nancy, Chandler, Edenton
following vessels Arrived at C. N. Mole, before
Capt. Brown failed from thence.
Ship Two Sifters ; brig Fame, Chirnfide ; Gray
Cufhmg ; Experiment Dolbey ; Betfev, and sloop
• Bctley, Dawkins, all from Philadelphia.
The brig Mary and Elizabeth, Cook, belonging;
to this port, was loft on Miguanna reef, the i cth
u t. Captain, Crew, and 29 paffengera saved : vef
iel and cargo totally loft.
rxt fl l ? 00ner Be « flf y. Charnock/arrived at Cape
' e »' 1 t3a ys from this port, and failed' again
October, in company with the brig Mary,
Wilhamfon.
W. Young, Mills, and Son.
Have for Sale, a large afTortment of
PRINTING and WRITING PAPERS
Which will include 500 reams of fine demy wove print
j »£ P a F«.«*
A Short Delay Jh
In the Drawing of the Canal Lottery, uT *
tn Washington city, has been unavoidably occafiop.ed .
by the nnforcfeen intervention ef Mr. Blodgct's Lottery
—but as the major pait ef the tickets are now disposed >
ef, f his is to inform the public that the drawing of the Ca- (
nal Lottery will certainly commence without fail, on the
£rft Monday in January 1797, aad those holding tickets,
aje hereby requested to fend a ilatemeat of those fold, and '
_> those on hand. zei
NOTLY YOUNG,
DANIEL CARROLL, of Duddington,
V\ GEORGE WALKER,
THOMAS LAW,
JAMES BARRY,
W. M. DUNC ANSON,
The Printers who gave our advertisements a ptace in
their newspapers, are reqaefted to give this notice aifmif
fion, as the remaining tickets are expected to be soon abovt
par, and we wiSh adventurers to be timely informed j ;
N«v. ii. t-)6w.
Imported in the late arrivals, j ,
And to be Sold by
JACOB PARKE,
No. 49, 'North, fide of High-street, Philadelphia,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT Of
Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, &c.
AMONGST WHICH ARE
SMITHS' Anvils, Vices, and Files; Saw-mill, Cross
cut, Hand, and other Saws; Carpenters' Planes, Chisels,
and other Tools; Carving Chisels and Gouges; Locks, <-0
Hinges, Bolts and Latches; Nails, Sprigs, Tacks, and
Screws; Frying-Pans; Smoothing-irons; Shovels and
Tongs; Coffee Mills; Candlelticks; Snuffers; Warming-
Pans; Table Knives and Forks; Riding Whips; Bar-
low Pen, and other Pocket Knives; Razors; Sciffars;
Needles; Ivory and Horn Combs; bed Kirby Fi(h
Hooks; brass Cabinet Furniture; Waggon Boxes; Sheet
; plated and tin'd Bridle Bits and Stirrups; itto
Sa die Nails; Girth and Straijiing Webbs; —with moll
kinds of Ironmongery, Cutlery, Sadlery, Brass Wares,
&x. gee.
O&eber 114. mwf6w
Robert Smith & Co.
No. 58, South Front-Jlreet,
ttave received by the late arrivals fr.m London, Liver
pool, and Huil, and by the Ohi* arrived at N.York
from Glasgow,
A large & general aflortment of Goods,
Suitable for the Sea/or, con/i/ling of
Duffle, Point and Role Checks, in small packages
Blankets Oznaburgs and Brown Hol-
White, Red, and Yellow lands
Flannel Brown and white Ruflia
Becking and other Baizes Sheetings
Second and coarse Cloths Drillings and Diapers
Plain and mixed Caffimeres Calicoes and Chintzes fin
Plain, twilled, and striped Jaconet and Book Mud ins tic
Coatings 80. do. Tamboured Di
Plains, Kerseys, and Half- Do. do. Handkerchiefs °'i
thicks Printed linen snd check do.
White & spotted Swanilcins Romal and Madrafs do. 'J
Lainet and fwanfdowa veil Muslin and Chintz Shawls -y
shapes 1 ' Bed Ticks
Carpets and Carpeting Table Cloths
Calimancocsand Durants Laces and Edging*
Moreens and Taboreens Faihionable Ribbons
Joans Spinning and Crapes Do. Hats and Bonnets
Camblets and Wildbores Cot ten & Worsted Hosiery u '
Bombazeens & Bombaiets Gloves and Mitts
Ratrinets and Shalloons White & coloured Threads ar
Plain, Genoa and printed Italian Sewing Silks tci
Velverets & Thicksets Ivory and Horn Combs
7-8, 4-4, and 11-8 Cottop Tapes, Bindings .JPins, &c.
They have on hand a large aflortment of InJii Muslins
and Calicoes, black and coloured Persians, Bandanno and
Pullicat Handkerchiefs, See. and a quantity of Nutmegs g
afld Mace.
0 (Sober 17. mwfim
Treasury of the United States.
OTICE is hereby given to all persons who are or d
i\ may be Creditors of the United States, for any sums
•f tfc * Faded Debt, or Stock, luring a present interefl of fix
ler centvmper annum.
1 ft, That pursuant to an Aft of Congress passed on the
ißth day of April, 1796, intitled an a& in addition to an
aft, intituled " An aft making further provision for the
support of public credit, and for the redemption of the
public debt," the said debt or stock will be reimbursed and
paid in manner following, to wit. " First, by dividends
" to be made on the last days of March, June and Septem
" ber for the present year, and from the year one thousand
'« seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year one thou
" sand eight hundred & eighteen indufive,at the rate of
"" one and one half per centum upon the original capital.
" Secondly, by dividends to be made on the lad day of
" December for the present year, and from the year one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, to the year 1
" one thoufandeight hundred and seventeen inclusive, at 2
" the rate of three and one half per centum upon the ori
" ginal capital; and by a dividend to be ma if on the last
'« day os-December, in the year one thousand eight hun
" dred and eighteen, of such sum, as will be then ade
" quate, according to the contrast, for the final redemp- Ti
" tion of tli" said dock." tic
id. All diftinftion between payments on account of
hterefl and Principal being thus abolished by the eftablifhj er
fcient of the permanent rule of reimbursement abov. de- an
scribed, it has become necessary to vary accordingly the
powers of attorney for receiving dividends; the public V a
creditors will therefore observe that the following form T
is eftabliftied for all powers of attorney which may be f r
granted after the due promulgation of this notice, v(2. it
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that as
/
do male, conjlitute and appoint tr
my true and lawful At- -A
torney,forme, and in my name, to receive tie tiividendj -übieh are, tl
or fM he payable according to UlO, on the (hers describing the w
stock) funding in my name in tbe booh of (here defcribmg.the U
books of the Treasury or the Ccmmiflioncr of Loans,
where the stock is credited) from (here insert the com- f<
mcncement and expiration of lime for whith the power of 3
attcrr.cy is to codlinuV) r-'itb poivrr alfj a,, attorney or cttor- n
nit; under him, for that purpose to mate and fuijlitale, and to do all d
hivjul alls requisitefor rfferling tbepremifei, hereby ratifying and t|
eonfrming all that my said Attorney or hufubptutcjhall lawful- tl
h do, by virtue hereof. 11
In Witness hereof, / lave hereunto Jet my Hand and Seal tbe
Jay of tbe vear 3
Sealed and Delivered 0
in ptefince of,
BE IT KNOWN,that on tbe day of
aft re meperfonally came '
ivitbin named and acinczule'ged tbe above letter ef attorney to be '
Us aa and deed. '
In teflimtny whereof I have hereunto set my Han iind affix- '
e J Seal tbe day and year lap afcrtjaid.
Given under my Hand at Philadelphia, thutwen- j
tieth day cf July 1796, pursuant to directions
from the Secretary of the Treasury.
SAMUEL MEREDITH, I
7 reafurer of the United States. 1
luhn- n 7 ;
Gafpard Cenas
Will cpen his Dancing ScJjoo!
Oo the ift of November, at 10 «'clock in the morning,
,t OeUcrs% H.tel- Oft. 17. «mwf 4
Jujl Imported from London hf Liverpcci-
Earthzn Ware, in crstti and kog&eads, w«H
afiorted v
Dottles in hampers
Windcjw Glafi of all fi7e« In
Two cases-os ft itionary H
Onechellof yellnw J-efuits Bark on J
Two cases oF Roll Arnstta * _ you:
A small confignmer.t of Role Blankets, Flar.aels, the
ze», Broad-cleths, Coatings, Plains, &c. Ii
Paints of virions colors intr
Baiket fait in hoglheads.
Also on hand,
Madeira wine, very old, in pipes, hogfiicads and
quarter casks
Holland gin in pipes, firft quality C
Anchors of different sizes —
A few trunks of ladies French ihoes aflorted
Silk nankeen, &c. , '
Likewise an afTorimcnt of Dutch goods, confining if
Ofnabergs, ticklenbergs,bed-tick, fttipfs, checks
Morlaix linen, plattilas.rsvens duck, Britanni23, icc*
And for fate by the package only, 117 (
Ihomas & John Ketland,
Walnut-Arret wharf.
Nov. 15. eodtf
—— K«.
By Authority. C
Schuylkill Bridge Lottery. i R
Cor
Sold by WILLIAM BLACKBURN, No. 64, fe ii
South Sccontl-Jireet. bill
SCHEME of a LOTTERY,
.For raifisg Sixty Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Aft of *
the Legiflaiure of paifcd during the last ,
feflion, for building a Stone Biidge orer the River
Schuylkill, at the Borouph of Reading, in the Couniy of mi "
Berks. ' Dollars. >
1 Prize of 20 000 Dollars » 20,000
i 1 do. of 10,000 do. - - 10,000
3 do. of 5,000 do. - 15,000
4 do. of 2.000 do. - - 8,000
20 do. of 1,003 do, - 20j0C0
39 do. of 500 do. - - l 9*o os
80 do. of 200 do. - • i6,0c0
200 do. of 100 do. - 20,000
300 do. of 50 do. - - »5;000 J
1 do< of 500 do to be paid the poflcf- )
for ®t thefirlk drawn no. J "
5 do# of 3,000 do. to be paid pofleffor*)
of the five last drawn nos,J j LA
9,400 do. of 15 do. : - 141,000 cme
——— * — hnai
10,054 Prizes 300, ceo a p
10,046 Blanks —
1 c
30,000 Tickers at Ten Dollars 300,000 —
All Prizes (Kail be paid fifteen days atter the drawing is
finifhed, upon the demand of a poifeflor of a fortunate j
i ticket, fubjeft to a dedu&ion of twenty per ccnt. The
Drawing will commencc as soon as the Tickets are difpoit(i
of, or perhaps sooner. of which public ncyicc-will be given.
Philip Miller, Peter Kerjbner, William IVitman, j T)a(
Joftph Hiejlei'y 'Jftimes Diemcr, Thomas Dundas % has,
"James Maj y John Otto % John feint* Daniel Graejf, ton<
Sebafiian Miller, Commissioners. ver
Reading, May the 9th, 1796. t
doi
1 hav
Tickets in the Canal Lottery, No. r, to be had at the
, above office, where the earlitft information of the draw
ing of the Waihington No. a, and Patt.rfon lottery's,
, are received, and check b.oks for examination and reeif- '
5 . , ° tcw
termg are kept.
October 7. aawtf raa
: get
; City cf Washington. l t j^
wii
' SCHEME of the LOTTERY, No. 11, '
FOR THE IMPROVEMEKT 01 THE _
FEDERAL CITY.
A magnificent 7 10,000 dollars, & \
dweying-houfe, j calh 30,000, are ) J c .ooo
1 I, ditto 15,000 & cafl» 25,000 40,000
! 1 ditto 15,000 & calh 15,000 30,000 L'n
I ditto 10,000 & cash 10,000 ao,ooo e<! >
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000 br ?
I ditto 5,000 & cash 5,000 10,000
l cash prize of 10,000
» do. 5,000 each, are • 10,000 t ; ci
10 do. 1,000 - - 10,000
ao do. 500 - - 10,000 on
[ 00 do. xoo • - 10,000 (
»oo do. 50 10,000 ft* l
f 400 do. 15 - 10,000
1,000 do. ao - 10,000
f 15,000 do. 10 - • J5»,ooo '
: 16,739 Prize*.
t 3j»i6i Blanks.
k 50,000 Tickets, at Eight Dollars, 400,000
————— ■ - UZ.I
N. B. To favour those who may take a quantity of f u ;,
- Tickets,thepriaeof4o,ooodollarswillbethe last drawn f or
ticket, and the 30,000 the last but oni : j,„
f And approved notes, fectiring payment in either monsy
i er prizes, in ten clay • after drawing, will be received few a f t
- any number not less than 30 tickets. p 4
e This Lottery will afford an elegant specimen of the pri- r;
c vate buildings to be crested in the City of Washington— i; n
n Two beautiful designs are already fclevied for the entire at
e fronts on two of the public squares; from these prawings pi
it ispropofedtocreel two centreand fourcorner buildings, Fa
,1 as soon as pofTtble after this lottery is fold, and to convey J)<
them, when complete, to the fortunate advemurtrs. in St
the manner described in the fchcme for the Hotel Lottery, to
(. A nett deduction of five per cent, will be made to defray M
e, the necessary eipenfes of printing, the surplus j
ie will be made a part of the fund intended for the National Inv
le University, to be creAed within the city of Waihiagton. ni
s, The Drawing will commence as soon as the tickets are pc
1- fold off.--The reoney prizes will be payable in thirty days b<
of after it is finifhed ; and any pr:ze< for which fortunate
r . numbers ate not produced within twelve months after the lo
,11 drawing is closed, are to be conSJeredas given towards
■ti the fur.4 for the University ; it being determined to fettle
■I- the whole bulinefs in a year from ithe elding of the draw- p<
ing, and'to take up the bonds given as security.
it The real securities given for the payment of the Prizes,
are held by the President and two Directors of the Bank
of Columbia, and are valued at snore than half the a
mount of the lottery.
The twenty four gentlemen who by appointment of
the late Commilfioners aSElted in the management of the r
fa Hotel Lottery are requested to undertake this arduous talk f,
a second time on behalf *>f the public ; a fufficient num ti
fx- ber of these having kindly accepted, his hoped that the a
friends to a National University jnd the other federal ob- a
•n- joffts ma 7 contiHue to favor the delign.
111s By accounts received from the different parts of the J
Continent as well as from Europe, where the tickets r
have been fer.t for file, the public are assured that ths t
drawing will speedily enmmenee, and that thecarcand 1
caation unavoidably necessary to insure a fafe disposal of f
th* tickets, has rendered the fborr fufpaifion indifpcnfablt. t
SAMUEL BLODGET. 1
•§» Tickets may be had at the Bank of Columbia ; of <
James Well & Co. Baltimore; of Peter Gilman, Boston : <
«g, of John Hopkins, Richmond ; and of Richard Wells'
\ Cooper's Ferry. eo
DANCING SCHOOL,
V/IJXIAM M'DOUGALL will open hit fchtiol or. Mon
day the lft inft. at ten o'clock in :1c morning, at fci« f a |
Elegant hew Ball Rooms,
In Fourth, between Chefnut and Walnut Streets.
Hour, of tuition for young ladies, from 10 to i o'cloek
on Monday?, Wcdntfday, and Friday morning'.; and iw
young gentlemen frotft 6to 9 o clock on the cvc;:fflgs o
the fame days.
In addition to a number of new eotilho*s, he m«n» to
introduce a variety of Scotch Reels.
Note. The firft pra&ifmg bail to be on Tu»fday e
rening, the firft of November, and to be continued every —
Tnefday, during the season.
For terms, kc, enquire at his house, No.lJ4,MarKc.-
ftrect. ~
Oift. <7. tthf
To be Sold, S5
The Time of a smart, adive Negro Lad,
Who has Eleven years to serve.
Enquire at No. jB, South Front street.
Qfloter 18. _L_
Brokers Office, and pa
COMMISSION STORE.
No. 63 South Third flreet.oppcfite the national new Banlc.
SAMUEL M FR.4UNCES and JOHN VAN REED,
have entered into co-partnerfr.ip, under the firm of
FRAUNCES & VAN REED, in the business of Brokers
Conveyancers and Commiflion merchants. They buy and ,
fell on commission every species of ltock, notes of hand,
bills of houses and lands, &c.
Money procured on deposits, &c. &c. all kinds c r
Writings in the conveyancing line, done with neatnefsand
dispatch; accounts adiufted, and books fettled, in the
mo ft corredl manner. Coaitant attendance will be given.
They solicit a lhare of the public favor ; they are deter
mined to endeavour to deserve it.
N. B. The utmost secrecy ebferved. At
SAMUEL M. FRAUNCES,
JOHN VAN REED.
Philad. *uguft 17, ; m&wtf
Sheridan's Dictionary, of
tec
THE SIXTH EDITION, on
Is this Day Published, of
Br w. rouNC-, mills & sox, i»n
Corner of Second and Chefnut ftrcets, fid
In one leirge 8"vo. -vohtme, price 3 dollars.
A COMPLETE DICTIONARY of the ENOU3H rot
( LANGUAGE, both with regard to found and meaning, an
' one main object of Which is to establish a plain and per- FC
taanent Standard of Pronunciation. To which is prefixed, on
a Profodial Grammar. M
BT THOMAS SHSRIDAN, A. it.
Oilober ai.
RAN A W A r, " .
About the ill of Odtober last, from the plantation of
Mr. Thomas F. Brooke, (in Prince George's county) to
whom he was hired, a NEGHO MAN, named CiESAR;
33 years of age ; about 5 feet Bor 9 inches high; well j
made; of a yellowilh complexion ; a little pockmarked:
has, whenfpoken to, rather a down look, and submissive 1
, tone of voice: the clothes he had before he abfeonded
were of plain, such as labouring Negroes usually wear,
but these he may probably exchange for others : he will a *=
doubtless endeavour to pass for a freeman, having, as I
have been informed, assumed the name of Butler : I have
reason to believe that he went to Baltimore, from whcnce —
he is said to have gone to feme part of the Sufquehannah,
' probably with a view of getting to Pennsylvania. A
reward of Thirty Dollars will be given to the pcrfon who ,
! may take him and so secure him in some jail tha: I may
get him again, if taken in this state, and Fifty dollars if or
taken out of the state, and if brought home or feenred in fa _
the jail of Prince George's county all reasonable charges w
will be paid by ALEXR. COVINGTON. toi
Maryland, Prince George's County, ") tai
1 ind November, 1796. j nth*t&f4W he
Davis's Law Book Store, "
No. 313, HIGH-STREET, J?'
GEORGE DAVIS announces to his profeffional friend?, to
and the Gentlemen of the Law generally thro' the
Union, that his late importation of BOOKS is now arran a - ™
cd, and r ady for Sale, from a single volume to an entire li- " c
brary, wiihout any advance upon nis former exceeding low j rc
prices, which forfeveral years pail have in so diftinguilbed a j ' n
manner recommended them to notice.
Printed Catalogues combining the mod extemfive collec- !
tion cf the lattft English and Inlb Editions ever imparted t h
into this country, ate pabliihed, and will be delivered gratis
on application.
Orders addrtffed to G. D. in wilting from any distance
(ball be punifually attended l0 * 11
A number of TRUNKS for Sale. /1
ALSO, TO CE LKT,
A convenient LOFT, near Maikct Street Wharf.
Nov. 8. . tu&fflm
Treasury Department, £f
September 28, 1796- •'
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will he re- 01
ceived at the office of the Secretary of tha Treasury
until the expiration of the firft dav of March next en- ~~
f suing, for the supply of all rations w !iich may he required
3 for the use of the United States, from the firft day of
June, 1797, to the thirty-firft day of May, 1793, both _
1 days inclusive, at the places and within the diflri&s *
1 after mentioned, viz. At Ofwego; at Niagara; it
Paefque ltle; a$ Sandulky Lake, and on Sandufky 1
i- Rivsr; at Detroit; at Michilimackinac; at Fort-Frank- 1
" linat rittfburgh; at Cincinnati; at Fort-Hamilton; *
,£ at Fort St. Clair; at Fort-Jefferfon ; at Grenville; at
[S Picque Town and Loramies Store ; at Fort Adams; at
s, Fort Way'uc; at Fort Defiance ; at any place below l-'ort
y Defiance on the Miami River to Lalie Eric; at Fort
n Steuben ; at Fort Maffac ; at any place from Fort MalTac
)'• to the fontk boundary of the United States on the river
>}' Miuifippi; at Fort Knox ; at Ouiatanon.
js If supplies (hall be required for any posts or places not
»1 mentioned la this notice, all such firpplirs ihall be fur
nilhed at prices proportioned to those to be paid at the
■e posts before recited, or as may he hereafter agreed on
js between the United States atvd the Contractor.
te The rations to be Supplied are to conlift of the foi
ls lowing articles, viz.
ds One pound two ounces of bread or flour.
le One pound two ounces of beef, or fourtoen ounces of
v- pork or bacon.
Halt a, gill of rum, brandy rr whiskey. 1
;s, One quart and half a pint of fait.'
)k Two quarts of Vinegar, ( , .
a- Two pounds of Soap, per hundred rat.on, c
One pound of Candle?, J ■ «* - r
ol The rations arc to be furnilhed in Tuch quantities, as that
he there fllall at all times during the said term, be fuflicient (
for the cenfuir.ption of the troops at Michilimachinac, Dc- *
m troit, Niagara, and Ofwego, for the term of fix month* in
he advance, and at each of the other posts, for the term of
>b- at leaOr three months in advance, in good and wholesome
provifions,ifthefam6 ftail be required. It is to be un
the derftoad, that the Contra»slor is to beat the essence and
ets rifle of iffuirgthe supplies to the trocps atcach post, and
the that all loffci fnftained by the depredations of an enemy, or
md by means of the troops of the United States, ftiall be paid
of for at the price of the articles captured or destroyed, on
>le. the dcpofitioßs of two or more persons of creditable cha
racters, and the certificate of a commiflioncd officer, af
of certaining the circumstances of the loss, and the amount
w : of the ai tides for which compensation (hall be claimed
:11s OLIVER WOLCOTT,
» Secretary of the Treasury.
I saltpetre,
A large quantity of Double-Refined p»t r . f or
sale at No. 15, South Third-street. \
November 5.
10 hogsheads St. Croix Rum,
5 Pipes Vinegar,
' For Sale, by
( Ezekiel Hall,
No. io, Penn Street.
Nov. 7.
, ;
Wm. HolDernesse, No. 76,
HIGH-STREET,
Has received by tbe late arrivals,
A Well Se/eclnJ A ssortmbnt bf
Silk Mercery, Linen Drapery, and
' Haberdashery Goods,
Which he will fell, wholesale and retail, en the very
lov. eft terms ;
Amongjl which are
Some elegant 4-4 and 7-8 Chintzes and Cottons, new
patterns
Ditto Farnkure ditto
Ditto Dimity
1 f Tamboured, Book, and Jaronet Muflini
f Ditto in Gold and Silver
Ditto Neckcloths, very fine
d 4 Mantuas of the firft quality
\ t Silk and Cotton Hosiery
Umbrellas of the firft quality, aflorted
r lrifh Linens, very fine, and Table Linens
d and Cotton Counterpanes
e Rose Blankets aflotted-*-&c. Sec.
1. O&obcr 26. d
Loft Last Evening,
At Rickttts's Amphithe?trf, (supposed to be taken by
some villain out of a gentleman's pocket)
A red Morocco-Leather POCKET-BOOK,
- Containing about 185 dollars in bank notes; three notes
of hand of Rofs and Simfon, No. 305 and ,to 6, da
ted 12th last August, payable 60 days after date, to tbe
order of Paul Siemeo, together for 515 C doliari; in or dor
of Mrs. Ann arpherfop. from Paul '
lin Mac NeaT, Esq. aVPort-au-Priuce, F->r ioodollars; bt
fidis several lmers and papers of no Hie but to the proprie
tor. The r.«fres of hand and order are without endoh'e-
I raent. E!GHTY DOLLARS REWARD is offered to
j any person who will discover and fccure the thief, and
FORTY DOLLARS for only bringing the above menti
|, oned notes and papers at No. 129, corner of Front and
Molherry streets. d Cel. 11.
Twenty Guineas Reward.
RANAU'AY from thjSf'ibfcriber en the 23d October,
r a Dark MULATTO l! "" , named MOSES; 21 j
old; about 5 feet 8 inches high ; had on a mixud gree.i
I coat, with a green velvet cape and oval yellow buttons;
| a striped vert ; a pair of dark spotted pantaloons, and
. whole boots much worn. It is probable he may ch'sge
his name sy*d dress. He has been accustomed to driving
j a Carriage, and waking. The above reward will be
paid for securing him so that thefubfefiker may get h:m
Ij again, and if brought home all reasonable chafges puidby
i Robins Chamberlaine.
e Earton, Maryland, Nov. 10. 14 Jlnnawtf
t STOP THE THIEVES!!!
LAST Wcdnefday Evening. O&ober 19. between the
° heursofyaod 100'cicck, the bed room of Mr Ricn'ettl in
7,. O'Eller'shotel was entered, either bv means of iaifekeyj,
II or at the window, by fornc who iaufi hav* g
n been acquainted' wi it (.»e tro^> Ton of oou'.c (?s the door
9 was found locked after they had commuted the tiicf:} who
took away from amongst several trunks, ONE which con
tained a valuable part oi Mr. Rickett's property, but of which
he is npt yet able to a/cenain the contents particularly. A{'•
■" ter bringing the said trunk away, and emptying rt of up
wards of a thoufiind dollars in cash ind bank notes, the Vil
lains left it behind the circus, during the time that tbe per
-5 formances of the evening were going lorward*
It isearneftly requcfied, that, all tavern-keepers on the fta*e
. roads, and the ferry houses, cs well as all civil officers, may
•. ! be watchful in fecuiiirg suspicious persons, who have a
w ! redundance of cash, which their appearance wtMild by no
a | means be'peak them to be pofieffed of.
One Hundred Dollars Reward
'* ! Will be given for lecuring the thief or thieves, and a sur
d ther reward for fecurtng them with the property.
i* Oct 12- d
<= Any Person
Whs is well acquainted -with the River
M I S S I S LP P I,
And will give Directions for failing into the fame,
! that can be depended on, Cull be genefouflv reward
ed for his information, provided tie v ill leave the
directions with Mr. John Fenno, printer, Philadelphia,
e- or Edmund M, Blunt, Ncwburyport.
•y November 3. iawam
•d Wafliington Canal Lottery,
° f ' no. 1.
- TXrHEREAS the State of Maryland has authorifrd
V ¥ the underwritten, to raise twenty-fix tnoufand,
. two hundred, and fifty dollars, for the purpose of CHttmg
n Canal through the City of Washington, fron th Po:
. tomacto theEaftern Branch Haruour.
The following is the SCHEME of No. J.
Viz /I Prize cf 20,000 dollars, 20,000
f ' rt I ditto 10,000 lo,oco
r- 35,000 V
• iC Tickets, ertch 1
6 ditto 1,000 6,000
io ditto 400 4,000
ot 10 ditto 100 »,COO
ir- 55 SO
he S 75° ditto 11 69,008
ou To be raised for th« Canal, 16,15°
ol- 5850 Prizes, 175,000
11650 Blanks, not two to a prize.
0 ( 17500 Tickets, atTen Dollars, - 175,000
Tlve CommiEGoners hava taken the Securities re
quired by the aforefaid a<fl for the panflull payment ol
the prizes.
The drawing of this Lottery will commenco, without
,n ' delay, as soon as thr Tickets are fold, of which t'jnd'j
notice will be given. - - rg
lat Such prizes a, are not (kmandedin fixmojitfisafter
:nt drawing is finiibcd, (ball h j ecuUder. das rehnqaiihe;! f<"
3 e . the benefit of the Canal, and appropriated accordingly
.in (S^ncdj NOTLF.Y YOUNG,
cf DANIEL CARKOLLjo/D ,
me LEWIS DEBLOIS,
im- GEORGE WALKER,
«nd Wm. M.DUNCANSON,
">d THOMAS LAW,
•?r JAMES BARRY.
,ai ® City of Walhirgtofl, Feb. it. $
on J
ha- , . '
as " PRINTED BY JOHN FE N j
—No. 119—
C H E !V VT-STRE E T.
'• [Pricc Fight Dollars per As****-/